Moby-Dick
白鲸
Moby Dick
莫比迪克
ETYMOLOGY.
词源。
Chapter 1 Loomings.
第一章 迫在眉睫。
Chapter 2 The Carpet-Bag.
第 2 章 地毯袋。
Chapter 3 The Spouter-Inn.
第三章 喷水旅馆。
Chapter 4 The Counterpane.
第四章床罩。
Chapter 5 Breakfast.
第5章 早餐。
Chapter 6 The Street.
第6章 街道。
Chapter 7 The Chapel.
第7章 礼拜堂。
Chapter 8 The Pulpit.
第8章讲坛。
Chapter 9 The Sermon.
第9章讲道。
Chapter 10 A Bosom Friend.
第10章 知音。
Chapter 11 Nightgown.
第11章 睡衣。
Chapter 12 Biographical.
第12章传记。
Chapter 13 Wheelbarrow.
第13章 独轮车。
Chapter 14 Nantucket.
第14章楠塔基特岛。
Chapter 15 Chowder.
第15章 杂烩汤。
Chapter 16 The Ship.
第16章 船。
Chapter 17 The Ramadan.
第十七章斋月。
Chapter 18 His Mark.
第18章 他的印记。
Chapter 19 The Prophet.
第十九章 先知。
Chapter 20 All Astir.
第20章 全体起立。
Chapter 21 Going Aboard.
第21章 出国。
Chapter 22 Merry Christmas.
第22章 圣诞快乐。
Chapter 23 The Lee Shore.
第23章 李海岸。
Chapter 24 The Advocate.
第24章辩护人。
Chapter 25 Postscript.
第25章后记。
Chapter 26 Knights and Squires.
第26章 骑士与侍从。
Chapter 27 Knights and Squires.
第27章 骑士与侍从。
Chapter 28 Ahab.
第28章 亚哈。
Chapter 29 Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.
第29章 亚哈上；对他来说，斯塔布。
Chapter 30 The Pipe.
第30章 管道。
Chapter 31 Queen Mab.
第31章 麦布女王。
Chapter 32 Cetology.
第32章鲸类学。
Chapter 33 The Specksynder.
第33章 斑点辛德。
Chapter 34 The Cabin-Table.
第34章 客舱桌子。
Chapter 35 The Mast-Head.
第35章 桅杆头。
Chapter 36 The Quarter-Deck.
第36章四分之一甲板。
Chapter 37 Sunset.
第37章 日落。
Chapter 38 Dusk.
第38章 黄昏。
Chapter 19 First Night Watch.
第19章 第一次守夜。
Chapter 20 Midnight, Forecastle.
第20章 午夜，艏楼。
Chapter 41 Moby Dick.
第41章莫比迪克。
Chapter 42 The Whiteness of The Whale.
第42章 鲸鱼的洁白。
Chapter 43 Hark!
第43章听！
Chapter 44 The Chart.
第44章图表。
Chapter 45 The Affidavit.
第45章 宣誓书。
Chapter 46 Surmises.
第46章 猜测。
Chapter 47 The Mat-Maker.
第47章 垫子制造者。
Chapter 48 The First Lowering.
第48章 第一次下降。
Chapter 49 The Hyena.
第49章 鬣狗。
Chapter 50 Ahab’s Boat and Crew. Fedallah.
第 50 章 亚哈的船和船员。费达拉。
Chapter 51 The Spirit-Spout.
第51章 灵喷。
Chapter 52 The Albatross.
第52章信天翁。
Chapter 53 The Gam.
第53章 甘。
Chapter 54 The Town-Ho’s Story.
第54章 镇浩的故事。
Chapter 55 Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales.
第55章 鲸鱼的怪异图片。
Chapter 56 Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True Pictures of Whaling Scenes.
第56章 鲸鱼的误差较小的图片，以及捕鲸场景的真实图片。
Chapter 57 Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.
第57章画中的鲸鱼；在牙齿；在木头；在铁片中；在石头里；在山区；在星星中。
Chapter 58 Brit.
第58章 英国人。
Chapter 59 Squid.
第59章乌贼。
Chapter 60 The Line.
第60章 线。
Chapter 61 Stubb Kills a Whale.
第61章 斯塔布杀死鲸鱼。
Chapter 62 The Dart.
第62章 飞镖。
Chapter 63 The Crotch.
第63章 胯部。
Chapter 64 Stubb’s Supper.
第64章斯塔布的晚餐。
Chapter 65 The Whale as a Dish.
第65章 鲸鱼当菜。
Chapter 66 The Shark Massacre.
第66章鲨鱼大屠杀。
Chapter 67 Cutting In.
第67章切入。
Chapter 68 The Blanket.
第68章 毯子。
Chapter 69 The Funeral.
第69章葬礼。
Chapter 70 The Sphynx.
第70章 斯芬克斯。
Chapter 71 The Jeroboam’s Story.
第71章 耶罗波安的故事。
Chapter 72 The Monkey-Rope.
第72章猴绳。
Chapter 73 Stubb and Flask Kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk Over Him.
第73章 斯塔布和烧瓶杀死露脊鲸；然后和他谈谈。
Chapter 74 The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.
第74章抹香鲸的头部——对比视图。
Chapter 75 The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.
第75章 露脊鲸的头——对比图
Chapter 76 The Battering-Ram.
第76章 攻城槌。
Chapter 77 The Great Heidelburgh Tun.
第77章 伟大的海德堡敦。
Chapter 78 Cistern and Buckets.
第78章 水箱和水桶。
Chapter 79 The Prairie.
第79章 草原。
Chapter 80 The Nut.
第80章坚果。
Chapter 81 The Pequod Meets The Virgin.
第81章 裴廓德号遇见圣母。
Chapter 82 The Honour and Glory of Whaling.
第82章 捕鲸的荣誉与荣耀。
Chapter 83 Jonah Historically Regarded.
第83章约拿历史上受人尊敬。
Chapter 84 Pitchpoling.
第84章 投球。
Chapter 85 The Fountain.
第85章 喷泉。
Chapter 86 The Tail.
第86章 尾巴。
Chapter 87 The Grand Armada.
第87章 大舰队。
Chapter 88 Schools and Schoolmasters.
第88章学校和校长。
Chapter 89 Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.
第89章 快鱼和散鱼。
Chapter 90 Heads or Tails.
第90章 正面还是反面。
Chapter 91 The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.
第91章 裴阔德号遇上玫瑰花蕾。
Chapter 92 Ambergris.
第92章龙涎香。
Chapter 93 The Castaway.
第93章 漂流者。
Chapter 94 A Squeeze of the Hand.
第94章 握一握手。
Chapter 95 The Cassock.
第95章袈裟。
Chapter 96 The Try-Works.
第96章尝试工作。
Chapter 97 The Lamp.
第97章 灯。
Chapter 98 Stowing Down and Clearing Up.
第98章收起收拾。
Chapter 99 The Doubloon.
第99章 达布隆。
Chapter 100 Leg and Arm.
第100章 腿和手臂。
Chapter 101 The Decanter.
第101章 醒酒器。
Chapter 102 A Bower in the Arsacides.
第102章 安息山的凉亭。
Chapter 103 Measurement of The Whale’s Skeleton.
第103章鲸鱼骨骼的测量。
Chapter 104 The Fossil Whale.
第104章 化石鲸鱼。
Chapter 105 Does the Whale’s Magnitude Diminish?—Will He Perish?
第105章 鲸鱼的体型变小了吗？——他会灭亡吗？
Chapter 106 Ahab’s Leg.
第106章 亚哈的腿。
Chapter 107 The Carpenter.
第107章木匠。
Chapter 108 Ahab and the Carpenter.
第108章 亚哈和木匠。
Chapter 109 Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.
第109章亚哈和星巴克在小屋里。
Chapter 110 Queequeg in His Coffin.
第110章 棺材里的魁魁格。
Chapter 111 The Pacific.
第111章太平洋。
Chapter 112 The Blacksmith.
第112章 铁匠。
Chapter 113 The Forge.
第113章熔炉。
Chapter 114 The Gilder.
第114章 镀金者。
Chapter 115 The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.
第115章 裴廓德遇见学士。
Chapter 116 The Dying Whale.
第116章 垂死的鲸鱼。
Chapter 117 The Whale Watch.
第117章 鲸鱼观察。
Chapter 118 The Quadrant.
第118章象限。
Chapter 119 The Candles.
第119章蜡烛。
Chapter 120 The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.
第120章 第一次守夜人即将结束的甲板。
Chapter 121 Midnight.—The Forecastle Bulwarks.
第121章午夜。——艏楼舷墙。
Chapter 122 Midnight Aloft.—Thunder and Lightning.
第122章午夜高空——雷电。
Chapter 123 The Musket.
第123章火枪。
Chapter 124 The Needle.
第124章 针。
Chapter 125 The Log and Line.
第125章日志和线路。
Chapter 126 The Life-Buoy.
第126章救生圈。
Chapter 127 The Deck.
第127章 甲板。
Chapter 128 The Pequod Meets The Rachel.
第128章 裴阔德遇见雷切尔。
Chapter 129 The Cabin.
第129章 小屋。
Chapter 130 The Hat.
第130章 帽子。
Chapter 131 The Pequod Meets The Delight.
第131章 裴廓德遇上喜悦。
Chapter 132 The Symphony.
第132章交响曲。
Chapter 133 The Chase—First Day.
第133章 追逐——第一天。
Chapter 134 The Chase—Second Day.
第134章 追逐——第二天。
Chapter 135 The Chase.—Third Day.
第135章追逐。——第三天。
Epilogue
结语

Moby Dick
莫比迪克

By Herman Melville
赫尔曼·梅尔维尔

ETYMOLOGY.
词源。

(Supplied by a Late Consumptive Usher to a Grammar School)
（由一位文法学校的晚期肺病引座员提供）

The pale Usher—threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him now. He was ever dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the known nations of the world. He loved to dust his old grammars; it somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.
苍白的亚瑟——外套、心脏、身体和大脑都破烂不堪；我现在看到他了。他总是用一块奇怪的手帕掸掉他的旧词典和语法上的灰尘，手帕上嘲讽地装饰着世界上所有已知国家的所有鲜艳的旗帜。他喜欢掸去旧语法的灰尘。这多少让他想起了自己的死亡。

‘While you take in hand to school others, and to teach them by what name a whale-fish is to be called in our tongue leaving out, through ignorance, the letter H, which almost alone maketh the signification of the word, you deliver that which is not true.’ —HACKLUYT
“当你手把手地教导其他人，并教他们在我们的舌头上如何称呼鲸鱼时，由于无知而遗漏了字母H，而字母H几乎是这个词的唯一含义，你传递了那不是真的。”——HACKLUYT

‘WHALE. … Sw. and Dan. HVAL. This animal is named from roundness or rolling; for in Dan. HVALT is arched or vaulted.’ —WEBSTER’S DICTIONARY
'鲸。 ……Sw。和丹. HVAL。这种动物因圆或滚动而得名；对于丹. HVALT 呈拱形或拱形。”——韦伯斯特词典

‘WHALE. … It is more immediately from the Dut. and Ger. WALLEN; A.S. WALW-IAN, to roll, to wallow.’ —RICHARDSON’S DICTIONARY
'鲸。 ……这是来自 Dut 的更直接的信息。和格尔。沃伦；作为。 WALW-IAN，滚动，打滚。”——理查森词典

KETOS, GREEK.
酮，希腊语。

CETUS, LATIN.
CETUS，拉丁语。

WHOEL, ANGLO-SAXON.
沃埃尔，盎格鲁-撒克逊人。

HVALT, DANISH.
HVALT，丹麦人。

WAL, DUTCH.
沃尔，荷兰人。

HWAL, SWEDISH.
HWAL，瑞典人。

WHALE, ICELANDIC.
鲸鱼，冰岛。

WHALE, ENGLISH.
鲸鱼，英语。

BALEINE, FRENCH.
巴莱恩，法国人。

BALLENA, SPANISH.
巴莱娜，西班牙人。

PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE, FEGEE.
PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE，FEGEE。

PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE, ERROMANGOAN.
PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE，ERROMANGOAN。

EXTRACTS (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).
摘录（由分馆员提供）。

It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grub-worm of a poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans and street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to whales he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however authentic, in these extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As touching the ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as affording a glancing bird’s eye view of what has been promiscuously said, thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations, including our own.
可以看出，这只可怜的Sub-Sub魔鬼的挖洞者和幼虫似乎已经走过了地球上漫长的梵蒂冈和街头摊位，捡起了他能在其中找到的任何关于鲸鱼的随机暗示。任何书籍，无论神圣的还是世俗的。因此，至少在任何情况下，你都不能把这些摘录中胡乱的鲸鱼陈述当作名副其实的福音鲸类学，无论这些陈述多么真实。离得很远。与一般古代作家以及这里出现的诗人一样，这些摘录只是有价值或有趣的，因为它们提供了一个鸟瞰图，让我们可以鸟瞰许多国家和地区对利维坦的混杂的言论、思想、想象和歌颂。几代人，包括我们自己。

So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am. Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too; and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes and empty glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness—Give it up, Sub-Subs! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world, by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless! Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and making refugees of long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against your coming. Here ye strike but splintered hearts together—there, ye shall strike unsplinterable glasses!
再见了，可怜的替补，我是他的解说员。你属于那个绝望、蜡黄的部落，这个世界上的任何酒都无法温暖你；对他们来说，即使是淡雪利酒也会显得玫瑰色太浓；但有时人们喜欢和他坐在一起，也会感到可怜兮兮；泪流满面，变得欢乐；并用圆睁的眼睛和空荡荡的眼镜，带着不那么令人不快的悲伤，直率地对他们说——放弃吧，小分队！因为你们为取悦世界而付出的努力越多，你们就越会永远忘恩负义！但愿我能为你们清理汉普顿宫和杜乐丽宫！但咽下你的眼泪，用你的心高高地飞向皇家桅杆；因为你之前去过的朋友们正在清理七层楼的天空，并让长期受宠的加百列、迈克尔和拉斐尔成为难民，反对你的到来。在这里，你们将破碎的心敲在一起——在那里，你们将敲击坚不可摧的玻璃！

EXTRACTS.
摘录。

‘And God created great whales.’ —GENESIS.
“上帝创造了巨大的鲸鱼。”——创世记。

‘Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep to be hoary.’ —JOB.
‘利维坦在他身后开辟了一条闪耀的道路；人们会认为深渊是苍白的。”——乔布。

‘Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.’ —JONAH.
“耶和华预备了一条大鱼，要吞掉约拿。”——约拿。

‘There go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to play therein.’ —PSALMS.
‘那里有船；那是你让他在其中玩耍的利维坦。”——《诗篇》。

‘In that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword, shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.’ —ISAIAH
‘到那日，耶和华必用他那猛烈、大而有力的剑惩罚利维坦那刺穿的蛇，就是利维坦那弯曲的蛇；他要杀死海中的龙。”——以赛亚

‘And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this monster’s mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it goes all incontinently that foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of his paunch.’ —HOLLAND’S PLUTARCH’S MORALS.
“无论是什么东西进入这个怪物嘴里的混乱，无论是野兽、船只还是石头，它都会失禁地吞入他那肮脏的大吞下，并在他肚子的无底深渊中消失。”——霍兰德的普鲁塔奇德。

‘The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are: among which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as much in length as four acres or arpens of land.’ —HOLLAND’S PLINY.
“印度海孕育着数量最多、体型最大的鱼类：其中鲸鱼和名为 Balaene 的漩涡鱼类，其长度相当于四英亩或 arpens 土地。”——荷兰普林尼。

‘Scarcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about sunrise a great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the former, one was of a most monstrous size. … This came towards us, open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea before him into a foam.’ —TOOKE’S LUCIAN. ‘THE TRUE HISTORY.’
“我们在海上航行了两天，日出时分，出现了许多鲸鱼和其他海怪。其中，其中一个体型最为巨大。 ......它张着嘴朝我们走来，四面八方掀起波浪，将他面前的大海打成泡沫。”——图克的卢西安。 “真实的历史。”

‘He visited this country also with a view of catching horse-whales, which had bones of very great value for their teeth, of which he brought some to the king. … The best whales were catched in his own country, of which some were forty-eight, some fifty yards long. He said that he was one of six who had killed sixty in two days.’ —OTHER OR OCTHER’S VERBAL NARRATIVE TAKEN DOWN FROM HIS MOUTH BY KING ALFRED, A.D. 890.
“他访问这个国家也是为了捕捉马鲸，马鲸的骨头对于牙齿来说非常有价值，他把其中一些带到了国王那里。 ……最好的鲸鱼是在他自己的国家捕获的，其中一些有四十八码，大约五十码长。他说他是在两天内杀死了 60 人的六个人之一。”——公元 890 年阿尔弗雷德国王从他口中摘下的其他或奥克瑟的口头叙述。

‘And whereas all the other things, whether beast or vessel, that enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster’s (whale’s) mouth, are immediately lost and swallowed up, the sea-gudgeon retires into it in great security, and there sleeps.’ —MONTAIGNE. —APOLOGY FOR RAIMOND SEBOND.
“所有其他的东西，无论是野兽还是船只，一旦进入这个怪物（鲸鱼）嘴里的可怕的深渊，就会立即消失并被吞没，而海鱼则非常安全地退入其中，然后在那里沉睡。” ——蒙田。 ——为雷蒙德·塞邦德道歉。

‘Let us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me if is not Leviathan described by the noble prophet Moses in the life of patient Job.’ —RABELAIS.
‘让我们飞吧，让我们飞吧！如果这不是高贵的先知摩西在耐心的约伯的生活中描述的利维坦，老尼克就带我去吧。”——拉伯雷。

‘This whale’s liver was two cartloads.’ —STOWE’S ANNALS.
“这头鲸鱼的肝脏有两车车。”——斯托的年鉴。

‘The great Leviathan that maketh the seas to seethe like boiling pan.’ —LORD BACON’S VERSION OF THE PSALMS.
“伟大的利维坦让海洋像沸腾的锅一样沸腾。”——培根勋爵的《诗篇》版本。

‘Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat, insomuch that an incredible quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale.’ —IBID. ‘HISTORY OF LIFE AND DEATH.’
“触摸那头巨大的鲸鱼或兽人，我们没有得到任何确定的信息。它们生长出过多的脂肪，以至于从一头鲸鱼身上可以提取出数量惊人的油。”——同上。 “生与死的历史。”

‘The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise.’ —KING HENRY.
“地球上最重要的东西是帕尔玛干酪，可以治疗内心的瘀伤。”——亨利国王。

‘Very like a whale.’ —HAMLET.
“非常像鲸鱼。”——哈姆雷特。

‘Which to secure, no skill of leach’s art Mote him availle, but to returne againe To his wound’s worker, that with lowly dart, Dinting his breast, had bred his restless paine, Like as the wounded whale to shore flies thro’ the maine.’ —THE FAERIE QUEEN.
为了确保这一点，利奇的艺术技巧无法让他无济于事，但要再次回到他的伤口工人那里，用低沉的飞镖，敲击他的胸膛，孕育出他不安的痛苦，就像受伤的鲸鱼穿过缅因州飞向岸边一样.”——仙女女王。

‘Immense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful calm trouble the ocean til it boil.’ —SIR WILLIAM DAVENANT. PREFACE TO GONDIBERT.
“像鲸鱼一样巨大，其庞大身体的运动可以在平静的情况下扰乱海洋直至沸腾。”——威廉·达文南爵士。冈迪伯特序言。

‘What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, Nescio quid sit.’ —SIR T. BROWNE. OF SPERMA CETI AND THE SPERMA CETI WHALE. VIDE HIS V. E.
“人们可能会怀疑什么是鲸蜡，因为博学的霍斯曼努斯在他三十年的研究中明确地说，内西奥·奎德坐着。”——T·布朗爵士。 SPERMA CETI 和 SPERMA CETI 鲸鱼。视频他的V.E.

‘Like Spencer’s Talus with his modern flail
“就像斯宾塞的距骨和他的现代连枷一样

He threatens ruin with his ponderous tail.
他用沉重的尾巴威胁着毁灭。

…
Their fixed jav’lins in his side he wears,
他们的标枪固定在他的身侧，

And on his back a grove of pikes appears.’ —WALLER’S BATTLE OF THE SUMMER ISLANDS.
在他的背上出现了一片梭子鱼树林。”——沃勒的《夏日群岛之战》。

‘By art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or State—(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man.’ —OPENING SENTENCE OF HOBBES’S LEVIATHAN.
“通过艺术创造了伟大的利维坦，称为联邦或国家（拉丁语，Civitas），它不过是一个人造人。”——霍布斯《利维坦》的开场白。

‘Silly Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a sprat in the mouth of a whale.’ —PILGRIM’S PROGRESS.
“愚蠢的灵魂没有咀嚼就吞下了它，就好像它是鲸鱼嘴里的小鲱鱼一样。”——《天路历程》。

‘That sea beast
‘那个海兽

Leviathan, which God of all his works
利维坦，他所有作品的上帝

Created hugest that swim the ocean stream.’ —PARADISE LOST.
创造了在海洋溪流中游泳的最大物体。”——失乐园。

—-‘There Leviathan,
——“利维坦在那里，

Hugest of living creatures, in the deep
最大的生物，在深处

Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims,
像海角睡觉或游泳一样伸展，

And seems a moving land; and at his gills
似乎是一片移动的土地；并在他的鳃处

Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea.’ —IBID.
吸入后，他的呼吸就喷出一片大海。”——同上。

‘The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of oil swimming in them.’ —FULLLER’S PROFANE AND HOLY STATE.
“强大的鲸鱼在水里游泳，里面也有油海。”——富勒的《世俗与神圣的状态》。

‘So close behind some promontory lie
“离某个海角谎言很近

The huge Leviathan to attend their prey,
巨大的利维坦去捕食它们，

And give no chance, but swallow in the fry,
不给任何机会，而是吞下鱼苗，

Which through their gaping jaws mistake the way.’ —DRYDEN’S ANNUS MIRABILIS.
它们张开的下巴会迷失方向。”——德莱登的《奇迹之年》。

‘While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off his head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come; but it will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water.’ —THOMAS EDGE’S TEN VOYAGES TO SPITZBERGEN, IN PURCHAS.
当鲸鱼漂浮在船尾时，他们砍下了它的头，并用小船将它拖到离岸边尽可能近的地方；但它会搁浅在十二或十三英尺的水中。”——托马斯·埃奇的《前往斯皮茨卑尔根岛的十次航行》，《普尔查斯》。

‘In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which nature has placed on their shoulders.’ —SIR T. HERBERT’S VOYAGES INTO ASIA AND AFRICA. HARRIS COLL.
“以他们的方式，他们看到许多鲸鱼在海洋中嬉戏，并通过它们的管道和通风口肆意地使海水模糊，这些是大自然放在他们肩上的。”——T·赫伯特爵士的亚洲和非洲航行。哈里斯科尔。

‘Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship upon them.’ —SCHOUTEN’S SIXTH CIRCUMNAVIGATION.
“在这里，他们看到了如此庞大的鲸鱼群，他们被迫非常小心地前行，生怕他们的船会撞到鲸鱼。”——舒顿的第六次环球航行。

‘We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The Jonas-in-the-Whale. … Some say the whale can’t open his mouth, but that is a fable. … They frequently climb up the masts to see whether they can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his pains. … I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a barrel of herrings in his belly. … One of our harpooneers told me that he caught once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over.’ —A VOYAGE TO GREENLAND, A.D. 1671 HARRIS COLL.
“我们从易北河起航，风向为东北方向。在名为鲸鱼乔纳斯的船上。 ……有人说鲸鱼张不开嘴，但这是一个寓言。 ……他们经常爬上桅杆，看看是否能看到鲸鱼，因为第一个发现者可以得到杜卡特的奖励。 ……有人告诉我，在设得兰群岛附近捕获了一头鲸鱼，它的肚子里有一桶鲱鱼。 ……我们的一位标枪手告诉我，他曾经在斯匹茨卑尔根岛捕获过一头全身白色的鲸鱼。”——格陵兰岛航行，公元 1671 年哈里斯·科尔 (HARRIS COLL)。

‘Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren.’ —SIBBALD’S FIFE AND KINROSS.
“公元 1652 年，有几头鲸鱼来到了这个海岸（法夫郡），其中有 80 英尺长的鲸骨，（据我所知），除了大量的石油外，它还提供了 500 重的鲸须。” 。它的下巴代表皮特费伦花园的一扇大门。”——西巴尔德的法夫和金罗斯。

‘Myself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that was killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness.’ —RICHARD STRAFFORD’S LETTER FROM THE BERMUDAS. PHIL. TRANS. A.D. 1668.
“我自己已经同意尝试一下我是否可以控制并杀死这只抹香鲸，因为我从来没有听说过任何人杀死过这种鲸鱼，因为它是如此凶猛和敏捷。”——理查德·斯特拉福德从百慕大群岛寄来的信。菲尔。转运。公元 1668 年。

‘Whales in the sea God’s voice obey.’ —N. E. PRIMER.
“海中的鲸鱼听从上帝的声音。”——N. E. 底漆。

‘We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the northward of us.’ —CAPTAIN COWLEY’S VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, A.D. 1729.
“我们还看到了大量的大型鲸鱼，南部海域的鲸鱼数量更多，我可以说，比例是一百比一； ”——《考利船长的环球航行》，公元 1729 年。

‘ … and the breath of the whale is frequendy attended with such an insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain.’ —ULLOA’S SOUTH AMERICA.
“……鲸鱼的呼吸常常带有令人难以忍受的气味，导致大脑紊乱。”——乌洛亚的南美洲。

‘To fifty chosen sylphs of special note,
“致五十位特别值得注意的精灵，

We trust the important charge, the petticoat.
我们相信最重要的任务——衬裙。

Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to fail,
我们常常知道七重栅栏会失败，

Tho’ stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale.’ —RAPE OF THE LOCK.
虽然里面塞满了铁环，武装着鲸鱼的肋骨。”——《强夺锁》。

‘If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those that take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest animal in creation.’ —GOLDSMITH, NAT. HIST.
“如果我们将陆地动物与居住在深海的动物在体型上进行比较，我们会发现它们在比较中显得可鄙。鲸鱼无疑是世界上最大的动物。”——戈德史密斯，NAT。历史。

‘If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them speak like great wales.’ —GOLDSMITH TO JOHNSON.
“如果你为小鱼写一则寓言​​，你会让它们像伟大的威尔士一样说话。”——戈德史密斯对约翰逊说。

‘In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were then towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves behind the whale, in order to avoid being seen by us.’ —COOK’S VOYAGES.
“下午，我们看到了本来应该是一块岩石的东西，但后来发现它是一头死鲸，是一些亚洲人杀死的，然后被拖上岸的。他们似乎竭力把自己隐藏在鲸鱼后面，以免被我们看到。”——库克的航行。

‘The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so great dread of some of them, that when out at sea they are afraid to mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood, and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order to terrify and prevent their too near approach.’ —UNO VON TROIL’S LETTERS ON BANKS’S AND SOLANDER’S VOYAGE TO ICELAND IN 1772.
“体型较大的鲸鱼很少冒险发起攻击。他们对其中一些人非常恐惧，以至于在出海时，他们甚至不敢提及他们的名字，并在船上携带粪便、石灰石、杜松木和其他一些相同性质的物品，以便恐吓和阻止他们靠得太近。”——乌诺·冯·特罗伊尔关于 1772 年班克斯和索兰德前往冰岛的航行的信件。

‘The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen.’ —THOMAS JEFFERSON’S WHALE MEMORIAL TO THE FRENCH MINISTER IN 1778.
“南塔科伊人发现的抹香鲸是一种活跃、凶猛的动物，需要渔民的高度技巧和勇气。”——托马斯·杰斐逊 1778 年为法国部长撰写的鲸鱼纪念碑。

‘And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?’ —EDMUND BURKE’S REFERENCE IN PARLIAMENT TO THE NANTUCKET WHALE-FISHERY.
“请问，先生，世界上有什么能与它相媲美？”——埃德蒙·伯克在议会中提到楠塔基特鲸鱼渔业时。

‘Spain—a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe.’ —EDMUND BURKE. (SOMEWHERE.)
“西班牙——一头搁浅在欧洲海岸的大鲸鱼。”——埃德蒙·伯克。 （某处。）

‘A tenth branch of the king’s ordinary revenue, said to be grounded on the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from pirates and robbers, is the right to royal fish, which are whale and sturgeon. And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the coast, are the property of the king.’ —BLACKSTONE.
“国王普通收入的第十个分支，据说是出于他保护海洋免受海盗和强盗侵害的考虑，是对皇家鱼类（鲸鱼和鲟鱼）的权利。这些东西，无论是被扔到岸上还是在海岸附近捕获，都是国王的财产。”——黑石。

‘Soon to the sport of death the crews repair:
“很快，船员们就开始了死亡游戏：

Rodmond unerring o’er his head suspends
罗德蒙德的头悬空无误

The barbed steel, and every turn attends.’ —FALCONER’S SHIPWRECK.
带刺的钢铁，每一个转弯都会出现。”——福尔科纳的沉船事故。

‘Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires,
“屋顶、圆顶、尖塔闪闪发光，

And rockets blew self driven,
火箭自驱动爆炸，

To hang their momentary fire
吊起他们一时的火

Around the vault of heaven.
苍穹周围。

‘So fire with water to compare,
‘所以火与水相比，

The ocean serves on high,
海洋服务于高处，

Up-spouted by a whale in air,
被鲸鱼在空中喷出，

To express unwieldy joy.’ —COWPER, ON THE QUEEN’S VISIT TO LONDON.
表达难以控制的喜悦。”——考珀，谈女王访问伦敦。

‘Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at a stroke, with immense velocity.’ —JOHN HUNTER’S ACCOUNT OF THE DISSECTION OF A WHALE. (A SMALL SIZED ONE.)
“一次中风，十或十五加仑的血液以惊人的速度从心脏中喷出。”——约翰·亨特对鲸鱼解剖的描述。 （一个小号的。）

‘The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood gushing from the whale’s heart.’ —PALEY’S THEOLOGY.
“鲸鱼的主动脉孔比伦敦桥自来水厂的主管道还要大，而流过该管道的水在动力和速度上都逊色于从鲸鱼心脏涌出的血液。” ——佩利的神学。

‘The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet.’ —BARON CUVIER.
“鲸鱼是一种没有后足的哺乳动物。”——居维埃男爵。

‘In 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take any till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them.’ —COLNETT’S VOYAGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF EXTENDING THE SPERMACETI WHALE FISHERY.
“在南纬 40 度，我们看到了抹香鲸，但直到 5 月 1 日才捕获到任何鲸鱼，然后海洋就被它们覆盖了。”——科内特为了扩大抹香鲸渔业而进行的航行。

‘In the free element beneath me swam,
“在我下面的自由元素中游泳，

Floundered and dived, in play, in chace, in battle,
在玩耍中、在追逐中、在战斗中，挣扎着、潜入水中，

Fishes of every colour, form, and kind;
各种颜色、形状和种类的鱼；

Which language cannot paint, and mariner
哪种语言不能绘画，水手

Had never seen; from dread Leviathan
从来没有见过;来自可怕的利维坦

To insect millions peopling every wave:
每波驱虫数百万人：

Gather’d in shoals immense, like floating islands,
聚集在巨大的浅滩中，像漂浮的岛屿，

Led by mysterious instincts through that waste
在神秘本能的带领下穿过那片荒地

And trackless region, though on every side
还有无路可走的地区，尽管四面八方

Assaulted by voracious enemies,
遭到贪婪敌人的袭击，

Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm’d in front or jaw,
鲸鱼、鲨鱼和怪物，手臂放在前面或下巴，

With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs.’ —MONTGOMERY’S WORLD BEFORE THE FLOOD.
用剑、锯子、螺旋角或钩状獠牙。”——蒙哥马利的洪水前的世界。

‘Io! Paean! Io! sing.
‘艾欧！赞歌！伊奥！唱歌。

To the finny people’s king.
献给鳍人民的国王。

Not a mightier whale than this
没有比这更强大的鲸鱼了

In the vast Atlantic is;
在浩瀚的大西洋上是；

Not a fatter fish than he,
没有一条鱼比他更肥，

Flounders round the Polar Sea.’ —CHARLES LAMB’S TRIUMPH OF THE WHALE.
比目鱼绕着极地海航行。”——查尔斯·兰姆的《鲸鱼的胜利》。

‘In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the whales spouting and sporting with each other, when one observed: there—pointing to the sea—is a green pasture where our children’s grand-children will go for bread.’ —OBED MACY’S HISTORY OF NANTUCKET.
“1690 年，一些人在一座高山上观察鲸鱼喷水和互相嬉戏，这时有人观察到：那里——指着大海——是一片绿色的牧场，我们的子孙们将去那里寻找面包。”——奥贝德·梅西的楠塔基特岛历史。

‘I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the form of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale’s jaw bones.’ —HAWTHORNE’S TWICE TOLD TALES.
“我为苏珊和我自己建造了一座小屋，并通过设置鲸鱼的颌骨，以哥特式拱门的形式建造了一个门户。”——霍桑的两次讲述的故事。

‘She came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been killed by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years ago.’ —IBID.
“她来是为了给她的初恋情人立一座纪念碑，她的初恋情人至少四十年前在太平洋上被鲸鱼杀死了。”——同上。

‘No, Sir, ‘tis a Right Whale,’ answered Tom; ‘I saw his sprout; he threw up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to look at. He’s a raal oil-butt, that fellow!’ —COOPER’S PILOT.
“不，先生，这是一头露脊鲸，”汤姆回答道。 “我看到了他的发芽；他吐出了一对基督徒希望看到的美丽彩虹。他是个真正的油桶，那个家伙！”——库珀的飞行员。

‘The papers were brought in, and we saw in the Berlin Gazette that whales had been introduced on the stage there.’ —ECKERMANN’S CONVERSATIONS WITH GOETHE.
“文件被带进来，我们在柏林公报上看到，那里的舞台上介绍了鲸鱼。”——埃克曼与歌德的对话。

‘My God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?’ I answered, ‘we have been stove by a whale.’ —‘NARRATIVE OF THE SHIPWRECK OF THE WHALE SHIP ESSEX OF NANTUCKET, WHICH WAS ATTACKED AND FINALLY DESTROYED BY A LARGE SPERM WHALE IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN.’ BY OWEN CHACE OF NANTUCKET, FIRST MATE OF SAID VESSEL. NEW YORK, 1821.
'我的上帝！查斯先生，怎么了？”我回答说，“我们被鲸鱼烧焦了。”——“楠塔基特岛埃塞克斯号捕鲸船失事的叙述，该船在太平洋。作者：楠塔基特岛的欧文·蔡斯，该船的大副。纽约，1821 年。

‘A mariner sat in the shrouds one night,
“一天晚上，一位水手坐在裹尸布里，

The wind was piping free;
风徐徐地吹着。

Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale,
月光时而明亮，时而暗淡，

And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale,
磷光体在鲸鱼的尾迹中闪闪发光，

As it floundered in the sea.’ —ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH.
当它在海中挣扎时。”——伊丽莎白·奥克斯·史密斯。

‘The quantity of line withdrawn from the boats engaged in the capture of this one whale, amounted altogether to 10,440 yards or nearly six English miles. …
“从捕获这头鲸鱼的船上拉出的绳索长度总计达 10,440 码，即近 6 英英里。 ……

‘Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air, which, cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of three or four miles.’ —SCORESBY.
“有时鲸鱼会在空中摇动它巨大的尾巴，尾巴像鞭子一样发出噼啪声，声音能传到三四英里之外。”——斯科斯比。

‘Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, the infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over; he rears his enormous head, and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he rushes at the boats with his head; they are propelled before him with vast swiftness, and sometimes utterly destroyed. … It is a matter of great astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting, and, in a commercial point of view, so important an animal (as the Sperm Whale) should have been so entirely neglected, or should have excited so little curiosity among the numerous, and many of them competent observers, that of late years, must have possessed the most abundant and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes.’ —THOMAS BEALE’S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE, 1839.
“抹香鲸因这些新的攻击而承受的痛苦让他发疯了，愤怒的抹香鲸翻来覆去；他抬起巨大的头，张开宽大的下巴，猛咬周围的一切。他用头冲向船只；它们以极快的速度被推到他面前，有时甚至被彻底摧毁。 ……令人非常惊讶的是，对如此有趣、从商业角度来看如此重要的一种动物（如抹香鲸）的习性的考虑竟然被完全忽视了，或者根本没有引起任何兴奋。近年来，众多人的好奇心，其中许多人都是有能力的观察者，一定拥有最丰富和最方便的机会来见证他们的习惯。”——托马斯·比尔的《抹香鲸的历史》，1839年。

‘The Cachalot’ (Sperm Whale) ‘is not only better armed than the True Whale’ (Greenland or Right Whale) ‘in possessing a formidable weapon at either extremity of its body, but also more frequently displays a disposition to employ these weapons offensively and in manner at once so artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as the most dangerous to attack of all the known species of the whale tribe.’ —FREDERICK DEBELL BENNETT’S WHALING VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, 1840.
“抹香鲸”“不仅比真鲸”（格陵兰鲸或露脊鲸）“在身体的任一端拥有强大的武器”，而且更频繁地表现出使用这些武器进行攻击的倾向其行为方式如此狡猾、大胆和恶作剧，以至于它被认为是鲸鱼部落中所有已知物种中最容易受到攻击的。”——弗雷德里克·德贝尔·贝内特的环球捕鲸之旅，1840 年。

October 13. ‘There she blows,’ was sung out from the mast-head.
10 月 13 日。桅杆顶上传出“她吹在那里”的歌声。

‘Where away?’ demanded the captain.
“去哪儿？”船长问道。

‘Three points off the lee bow, sir.’
“离下风弓三分，长官。”

‘Raise up your wheel. Steady!’ ‘Steady, sir.’
‘抬起你的轮子。 “稳住，先生。”

‘Mast-head ahoy! Do you see that whale now?’
‘桅杆头啊嘿！你现在看到那条鲸鱼了吗？

‘Ay ay, sir! A shoal of Sperm Whales! There she blows! There she breaches!’
‘哎呀，先生！一群抹香鲸！她在那里吹气！她就在那里突破了！

‘Sing out! sing out every time!’
'唱出来！每次都大声唱歌！

‘Ay Ay, sir! There she blows! there—there—THAR she
‘哎哎，先生！她在那里吹气！那里——那里——她

blows—bowes—bo-o-os!’
击打——鞠躬——bo-o-os！”

‘How far off?’
“还有多远？”

‘Two miles and a half.’
“两英里半。”

‘Thunder and lightning! so near! Call all hands.’ —J. ROSS BROWNE’S ETCHINGS OF A WHALING CRUIZE. 1846.
‘雷电交加！这么近！召集全体人员。”—J.罗斯·布朗绘制的捕鲸游轮蚀刻版画。 1846.

‘The Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred the horrid transactions we are about to relate, belonged to the island of Nantucket.’ —‘NARRATIVE OF THE GLOBE,’ BY LAY AND HUSSEY SURVIVORS. A.D. 1828.
“捕鲸船地球号属于楠塔基特岛，船上发生了我们即将讲述的可怕交易。”——《地球仪的叙述》，作者：莱和赫西幸存者。公元 1828 年。

Being once pursued by a whale which he had wounded, he parried the assault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length rushed on the boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by leaping into the water when they saw the onset was inevitable.’ —MISSIONARY JOURNAL OF TYERMAN AND BENNETT.
有一次，他被一条被他打伤的鲸鱼追赶，他用长矛挡住了一段时间。但愤怒的怪物最终冲上了小船。他自己和战友们在看到疫情不可避免时跳入水中才得以保全。”——泰尔曼和贝内特的传教杂志。

‘Nantucket itself,’ said Mr. Webster, ‘is a very striking and peculiar portion of the National interest. There is a population of eight or nine thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely every year to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering industry.’ —REPORT OF DANIEL WEBSTER’S SPEECH IN THE U. S. SENATE, ON THE APPLICATION FOR THE ERECTION OF A BREAKWATER AT NANTUCKET. 1828.
“楠塔基特岛本身，”韦伯斯特先生说，“是国家利益中非常引人注目和特殊的一部分。有八九千人生活在这片海域，通过最大胆、最坚持不懈的工业，每年都在很大程度上增加国家财富。”——丹尼尔·韦伯斯特在美国参议院关于安装申请的演讲报告楠塔基特岛的防波堤。 1828.

‘The whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a moment.’ —‘THE WHALE AND HIS CAPTORS, OR THE WHALEMAN’S ADVENTURES AND THE WHALE’S BIOGRAPHY, GATHERED ON THE HOMEWARD CRUISE OF THE COMMODORE PREBLE.’ BY REV. HENRY T. CHEEVER.
“鲸鱼直接从他身上掉了下来，可能立刻就杀死了他。”——“鲸鱼和它的捕获者，或者捕鲸人的冒险和鲸鱼的传记，聚集在准将长老的返航游轮上。”作者：牧师亨利·T·奇弗。

‘If you make the least damn bit of noise,’ replied Samuel, ‘I will send you to hell.’ —LIFE OF SAMUEL COMSTOCK (THE MUTINEER), BY HIS BROTHER, WILLIAM COMSTOCK. ANOTHER VERSION OF THE WHALE-SHIP GLOBE NARRATIVE.
“如果你发出哪怕一点点该死的声音，”塞缪尔回答道，“我就会送你下地狱。”——《塞缪尔·康斯托克（叛变者）的一生》，作者：他的兄弟威廉·康斯托克。捕鲸船全球叙事的另一个版本。

‘The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order, if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, though they failed of their main object, laid-open the haunts of the whale.’ —MCCULLOCH’S COMMERCIAL DICTIONARY.
“荷兰人和英国人前往北大洋的航行，是为了在可能的情况下找到一条通过北大洋到达印度的通道，尽管他们的主要目标没有实现，但却暴露了鲸鱼的出没之处。”——麦卡洛克商业词典。

‘These things are reciprocal; the ball rebounds, only to bound forward again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the whalemen seem to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same mystic North-West Passage.’ —FROM ‘SOMETHING’ UNPUBLISHED.
‘这些事情是相互的；球反弹，但又再次向前弹起；现在，在揭开鲸鱼出没的地方时，捕鲸人似乎间接找到了通往同一神秘西北航道的新线索。”——来自未发表的“某物”。

‘It is impossible to meet a whale-ship on the ocean without being struck by her near appearance. The vessel under short sail, with look-outs at the mast-heads, eagerly scanning the wide expanse around them, has a totally different air from those engaged in regular voyage.’ —CURRENTS AND WHALING. U.S. EX. EX.
“在海上遇到鲸鱼，不可能不被她近在眼前的样子所震撼。短帆航行的船只，在桅杆顶处设有瞭望员，热切地扫视着周围广阔的区域，与那些从事常规航行的船只有着完全不同的气氛。”——水流和捕鲸。美国前。前任。

‘Pedestrians in the vicinity of London and elsewhere may recollect having seen large curved bones set upright in the earth, either to form arches over gateways, or entrances to alcoves, and they may perhaps have been told that these were the ribs of whales.’ —TALES OF A WHALE VOYAGER TO THE ARCTIC OCEAN.
“伦敦附近和其他地方的行人可能还记得曾看到过直立在地下的巨大弯曲骨头，要么在门户上形成拱门，要么在壁龛入口处形成拱门，他们可能被告知这些是鲸鱼的肋骨。” ——北冰洋鲸鱼航行者的故事。

‘It was not till the boats returned from the pursuit of these whales, that the whites saw their ship in bloody possession of the savages enrolled among the crew.’ —NEWSPAPER ACCOUNT OF THE TAKING AND RETAKING OF THE WHALE-SHIP HOBOMACK.
“直到船只追捕这些鲸鱼归来，白人才发现他们的船被船员中的野蛮人血腥占领了。”——《霍博马克号捕鲸船的夺取和夺回》报纸报道。

‘It is generally well known that out of the crews of Whaling vessels (American) few ever return in the ships on board of which they departed.’ —CRUISE IN A WHALE BOAT.
“众所周知，在捕鲸船（美国）的船员中，很少有人返回他们离开的船上。”——乘坐捕鲸船巡航。

‘Suddenly a mighty mass emerged from the water, and shot up perpendicularly into the air. It was the while.’ —MIRIAM COFFIN OR THE WHALE FISHERMAN.
“突然，一团巨大的东西从水中出现，垂直升到空中。是时候了。”——米里亚姆·柯芬或鲸鱼渔夫。

‘The Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope tied to the root of his tail.’ —A CHAPTER ON WHALING IN RIBS AND TRUCKS.
“鲸鱼肯定是被鱼叉刺中的；但想想你，你会如何管理一匹强大的、完整的小马，仅仅用一根绳子绑在它的尾巴根部。”——关于排骨和卡车捕鲸的章节。

‘On one occasion I saw two of these monsters (whales) probably male and female, slowly swimming, one after the other, within less than a stone’s throw of the shore’ (Terra Del Fuego), ‘over which the beech tree extended its branches.’ —DARWIN’S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST.
“有一次，我看到其中两只怪物（鲸鱼）可能是雄性和雌性，在距离海岸不到一箭之遥的地方缓慢地游动，一前一后”（Terra Del Fuego），“山毛榉树在海岸上延伸了它的叶子”。树枝。”——达尔文的博物学家之旅。

‘‘Stern all!’ exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his head, he saw the distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to the head of the boat, threatening it with instant destruction;—‘Stern all, for your lives!’’ —WHARTON THE WHALE KILLER.
“严正！”大副喊道，当他转过头时，他看到一头巨大的抹香鲸张开的下巴靠近船头，威胁着它立即毁灭；——“严正，为了你们的生命！” ”——鲸鱼杀手沃顿。

‘So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!’ —NANTUCKET SONG.
“所以要高兴，我的小伙子们，当勇敢的鱼叉手击中鲸鱼时，让你们的心永不衰竭！”——楠塔基特·宋。

‘Oh, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale In his ocean home will be A giant in might, where might is right, And King of the boundless sea.’ —WHALE SONG.
“哦，罕见的老鲸鱼，在暴风雨和大风中，在他的海洋家园中，将是一个强大的巨人，在强权是正确的地方，是无边大海的国王。”——鲸鱼之歌。

Chapter 1
第1章

Loomings.
迫在眉睫。

Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking people’s hats off—then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball. With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they but knew it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other, cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.
叫我以实玛利。几年前——不管具体多久——我的钱包里几乎没有钱，也没有什么特别让我感兴趣的东西，我想我应该航行一会儿，看看世界上有水的部分。这是我祛脾调经的一个方法。每当我发现自己的嘴色变得严肃时；每当我的灵魂进入潮湿、细雨的十一月；每当我发现自己不由自主地在棺材仓库前停下来，并在我遇到的每场葬礼后面时；尤其是当我的情绪占了上风，需要有强大的道德原则来阻止我故意走上街头，有条不紊地敲掉人们的帽子时——那么，我认为是时候尽快出海了如我所能。这是我的手枪和球的替代品。加图带着哲学般的华丽辞藻，骑在剑上。我静静地走上船。这并不奇怪。如果他们知道的话，几乎所有在他们程度的人，在某个时间或其他时间，都怀有与我几乎相同的对海洋的感情。

There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs—commerce surrounds it with her surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land. Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.
现在，这里就是曼哈顿的岛屿城市，周围环绕着码头，就像印度群岛周围环绕着珊瑚礁一样——商业与海浪围绕着它。左右两侧的街道将带您走向水边。它的最市中心是炮台，那颗高贵的鼹鼠在那里被海浪冲刷，被微风冷却，几个小时前，它还处于陆地的视线之外。看看那里成群结队的观水者。

Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What do you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But these are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster—tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are the green fields gone? What do they here?
环绕这座城市度过一个梦幻般的安息日下午。从科利尔斯胡克 (Corlears Hook) 前往科恩蒂斯滑道 (Coenties Slip)，然后从那里经白厅 (Whitehall) 向北行驶。你看到了什么？——成千上万的凡人像沉默的哨兵一样遍布整个城镇，沉浸在海洋的遐想中。有的靠在尖桩上；有的坐在码头上；一些人俯瞰着来自中国的船只的舷墙；索具高高在上，仿佛在努力更好地窥视大海。但这些都是陆地人；工作日的时间被用板条和石膏压抑起来——绑在柜台上，钉在长凳上，钉在桌子上。那这是怎么回事呢？绿色的田野消失了吗？他们在这里做什么？

But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand—miles of them—leagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues—north, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite. Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all those ships attract them thither?
但看！更多的人群来到这里，径直走向水边，似乎是要去潜水。奇怪的！除了土地的极限之外，没有什么能让他们满足。在那边仓库的阴凉处徘徊是不够的。不。他们必须尽可能靠近水而不掉进水里。他们站在那里——长达数英里——联盟。他们都是内陆人，来自东、南、西、大街小巷。然而在这里他们团结在一起。告诉我，所有这些船只的罗盘指针的磁力是否吸引他们到那里？

Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic in it. Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest reveries—stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in all that region. Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.
再一次。假设你在国内；在一些高地的湖泊中。几乎可以走任何你喜欢的路，十比一，它会把你带到山谷里，然后把你留在溪边的一个池塘边。其中有魔力。让最心不在焉的人陷入他最深沉的遐想中——让那个人双腿站立，迈开脚步，他一定会带你到水边，如果那个地区都有水的话。如果你在美国大沙漠中感到口渴，如果你的商队碰巧配备了一位形而上学教授，请尝试这个实验。是的，众所周知，冥想和水是永远结合在一起的。

But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest, quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the Saco. What is the chief element he employs? There stand his trees, each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this shepherd’s head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd’s eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies—what is the one charm wanting?—Water—there is not a drop of water there! Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea? Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land? Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely all this is not without meaning. And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned. But that same image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.
但这是一位艺术家。他渴望为您描绘出萨科山谷中最梦幻、最阴暗、最安静、最迷人的浪漫风景。他使用的主要元素是什么？那里矗立着他的树木，每棵树都有一个空心的树干，仿佛里面有一个隐士和一个十字架。这里睡着他的草地，那里睡着他的牲畜；远处的小屋升起了一股昏昏欲睡的烟雾。蜿蜒曲折地深入遥远的林地，到达沐浴在山边蓝色的重叠山脊。尽管画面如此恍惚，尽管这棵松树像树叶一样在牧羊人的头上摇落着叹息，但一切都是徒劳的，除非牧羊人的眼睛注视着他面前的神奇溪流。六月去参观大草原，你要在齐膝深的虎百合中涉水几十英里——还有什么魅力？——水——那里一滴水都没有！如果尼亚加拉只是一个沙瀑布，你愿意千里迢迢去看它吗？为什么这位田纳西州的贫穷诗人突然收到两把银子后，会考虑是给他买一件他非常需要的外套，还是把钱投资到洛克威海滩的徒步旅行上？为什么几乎每个身体健康、内心强大的男孩都会在某个时候疯狂地出海呢？为什么当你作为乘客第一次航行时，当你第一次得知你和你的船现在已经脱离陆地的视线时，你自己会感到如此神秘的振动？为什么古波斯人视大海为圣？为什么希腊人给它一个单独的神，以及朱庇特的兄弟？当然，这一切并非没有意义。纳西索斯的故事还有更深刻的意义，纳西索斯因为无法理解他在喷泉中看到的痛苦而温和的形象，一头扎进了喷泉里，结果被淹死了。 但我们自己在所有河流和海洋中都看到了同样的图像。它是无法捉摸的生命幻影的形象；这是一切的关键。

Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger. For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a purse is but a rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengers get sea-sick—grow quarrelsome—don’t sleep of nights—do not enjoy themselves much, as a general thing;—no, I never go as a passenger; nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the glory and distinction of such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate all honourable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever. It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself, without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not. And as for going as cook,—though I confess there is considerable glory in that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board—yet, somehow, I never fancied broiling fowls;—though once broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one who will speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the mummies of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids.
现在，当我说我养成了出海的习惯，每当我的眼睛开始变得模糊，并且开始过度关注我的肺部时，我并不是想推断我曾经出海过一位乘客。作为乘客出行，你必须有一个钱包，而钱包只不过是一块破布，除非你里面有东西。此外，乘客会晕船——变得容易争吵——晚上睡不着——一般来说，他们不太享受；——不，我从来不作为乘客去；尽管我算得上是一名盐兵，但我也从来没有以准将、船长或厨师的身份出海过。我将这些职位的荣耀和区别留给那些喜欢它们的人。就我而言，我厌恶一切光荣的、受人尊敬的辛劳、考验和磨难。我能做的就是照顾好自己，而不需要照顾船只、三桅帆船、双桅船、纵帆船等等。至于去当厨师，虽然我承认这有相当大的荣耀，厨师是船上的一名军官，但不知何故，我从来没有想过烤鸡；尽管一旦烤过，明智地涂上黄油，并有判断力没有人会比我更恭敬地谈论一只烤鸡，更不用说恭敬了。正是出于古埃及人对烤朱鹮和烤河马的崇拜，你才能在金字塔的巨大面包房里看到这些生物的木乃伊。

No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast, plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head. True, they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar to spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this sort of thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one’s sense of honour, particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all, if just previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in awe of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off in time.
不，当我出海时，我就像一个简单的水手一样，在桅杆前，垂直进入艏楼，高高地到达皇家桅杆头。确实，他们宁愿命令我做一些事情，让我从一个圆石跳到另一个圆石，就像五月草地上的蚱蜢一样。起初，这种事情已经够不愉快的了。它触及一个人的荣誉感，特别是如果你来自这片土地上一个古老的家族，如范伦斯勒家族、兰道夫家族或哈迪卡努特家族。最重要的是，在你把手伸进焦油罐之前，你已经作为一名乡村校长称王称霸，让最高的男孩对你肃然起敬。我向你保证，从一名校长到一名水手的转变是一个激烈的转变，需要塞内卡和斯多葛学派的浓浓煎熬，才能让你微笑着忍受它。但即使这样也会随着时间的推移而消失。

What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain’t a slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains may order me about—however they may thump and punch me about, I have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is one way or other served in much the same way—either in a physical or metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is passed round, and all hands should rub each other’s shoulder-blades, and be content.
如果某个老船长命令我拿把扫帚清扫甲板，那又怎么样呢？我的意思是，在新约的天平上，这种侮辱相当于什么？你认为大天使加百列会因为我在那个特殊情况下迅速而恭敬地服从那个老帅哥而对我看不起吗？谁不是奴隶？告诉我。好吧，那么，无论老船长们如何命令我——无论他们如何对我拳打脚踢，我很满意地知道这没什么问题；其他人都以一种或另一种方式以大致相同的方式服务——无论是从物理还是形而上学的角度来看；这样，普遍的重击就传遍了，所有的手都应该互相摩擦肩胛骨，并且感到满足。

Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single penny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But BEING PAID,—what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition!
再说一遍，我总是以水手的身份出海，因为他们很乐意为我的麻烦付钱，但据我所知，他们从不付给乘客一分钱。相反，乘客必须自己付费。支付和被支付之间存在着巨大的差异。付款的行为也许是这两个果园窃贼给我们带来的最不舒服的伤害。但是得到报酬——还有什么可以与之相比呢？考虑到我们如此热切地相信金钱是世间所有疾病的根源，而且一个有钱人无论如何也进不了天堂，一个人接受金钱的文雅活动确实令人惊奇。啊!我们多么高兴地将自己置于灭亡之中！

Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world, head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is, if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from the sailors on the forecastle. He thinks he breathes it first; but not so. In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it. But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a merchant sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling voyage; this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in some unaccountable way—he can better answer than any one else. And, doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grand programme of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances. I take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this:
最后，我总是以水手的身份出海，因为前堡甲板上的有益健康的锻炼和纯净的空气。因为在这个世界上，逆风比来自船尾的风更普遍（也就是说，如果你从不违反毕达哥拉斯格言），所以在大多数情况下，后甲板上的准将从水手那里获得二手大气在艏楼上。他认为他首先呼吸了它；但事实并非如此。同样，民众在许多其他事情上也领导着他们的领导人，而领导人对此却毫不怀疑。但为什么，在作为商船水手多次闻到大海的味道之后，我现在应该想到去捕鲸航行；这是命运的隐形警察，时刻监视着我，暗中跟踪着我，以某种莫名其妙的方式影响着我——他比任何人都更能回答。毫无疑问，我这次捕鲸航行是很久以前制定的普罗维登斯宏伟计划的一部分。它是作为更广泛的表演之间的一种简短的插曲和独奏而出现的。我认为该法案的这一部分一定是这样的：

‘GRAND CONTESTED ELECTION FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF THE UNITED STATES. ‘WHALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL. ‘BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN.’
“美国总统大选的激烈竞争。” ‘伊斯梅尔的捕鲸之旅。 “阿富汗的血腥战斗。”

Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when others were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces—though I cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives which being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced me to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the delusion that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill and discriminating judgment.
虽然我不知道为什么那些舞台监督，命运之神，却把我贬低为捕鲸航行中的这个破烂部分，而其他人却把我贬低为高调悲剧中的华丽部分，以及优雅喜剧中简短而轻松的部分，以及闹剧中欢快的部分——尽管我不知道为什么会这样；然而，现在我回想起所有的情况，我想我可以稍微了解一下以各种伪装狡猾地呈现给我的动机和动机，这些动机和动机诱导我开始执行我所做的部分，除了哄骗我陷入这样的错觉之外：这是我自己公正的自由意志和歧视性判断的选择。

Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale himself. Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity. Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my wish. With other men, perhaps, such things would not have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good, I am quick to perceive a horror, and could still be social with it—would they let me—since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of the place one lodges in.
这些动机中最主要的是关于大鲸本身的压倒性想法。如此凶险而神秘的怪物勾起了我所有的好奇心。然后是狂野而遥远的大海，他在那里滚动着他的岛屿；鲸鱼无法承受的、无法名状的危险；这些，再加上上千种巴塔哥尼亚的景象和声音所带来的奇迹，帮助我实现了我的愿望。对于其他人来说，也许这样的事情不会成为诱因。但对我来说，我却被对遥远事物的永恒渴望所折磨。我喜欢在禁海航行，在野蛮的海岸登陆。我不会忽视好的东西，但很快就会察觉到一种恐怖，并且仍然可以与之交往——他们会允许我吗——因为与一个人居住的地方的所有囚犯保持友好关系是很好的。

By reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage was welcome; the great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung open, and in the wild conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two there floated into my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid most of them all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.
因此，捕鲸航行受到欢迎。神奇世界的大门打开了，在狂野的幻想中，我朝着自己的目标摇摆，两两两两，鲸鱼无尽的游行，飘进我的灵魂深处，而在其中的大多数之中，有一只巨大的蒙面虚影，如同空中的一座雪山。

Chapter 2
第2章

The Carpet-Bag.
地毯袋。

I stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm, and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday night in December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the little packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching that place would offer, till the following Monday.
我把一两件衬衫塞进我的旧地毯包里，夹在腋下，然后出发前往合恩角和太平洋。离开了曼哈顿这座美丽的城市，我如期抵达了新贝德福德。那是十二月的一个星期六晚上。当我得知前往楠塔基特岛的小包裹已经启航，并且要到下周一才能到达那个地方时，我感到非常失望。

As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as well be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a fine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famous old island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has of late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and though in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket was her great original—the Tyre of this Carthage;—the place where the first dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did that first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with imported cobblestones—so goes the story—to throw at the whales, in order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit?
由于大多数年轻的捕鲸者在忍受捕鲸的痛苦和惩罚时都会在新贝德福德停下来，从那里开始他们的航行，这也可能与我本人不知道这样做有关。因为我决定乘坐楠塔基特岛的船只航行，因为与那个著名的古老岛屿有关的一切都有一种美好而喧闹的感觉，这让我非常高兴。此外，虽然新贝德福德最近逐渐垄断了捕鲸业，虽然在这件事上可怜的老楠塔基特岛现在远远落后于她，但楠塔基特岛是她伟大的起源——这个迦太基的提尔；——第一个死去的美国人的地方鲸鱼搁浅了。除了楠塔基特岛之外，那些土著捕鲸人（红人）还曾在哪里第一次乘独木舟出击追击利维坦呢？除了从楠塔基特岛之外，第一艘冒险的小单桅帆船也是从哪里出发的，部分装载着进口的鹅卵石——故事是这样的——扔向鲸鱼，以便发现它们何时接近船首斜桅上的鱼叉？

Now having a night, a day, and still another night following before me in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold and cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I had sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,—So, wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of a dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the north with the darkness towards the south—wherever in your wisdom you may conclude to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire the price, and don’t be too particular.
现在，我在新贝德福德度过了一个晚上、一天，还有一个晚上，在我可以启程前往目的地港口之前，我要关心的是在哪里吃饭和睡觉。这是一个非常可疑的夜晚，不，是一个非常黑暗和阴沉的夜晚，寒冷刺骨，毫无生气。我不认识这个地方的任何人。我用焦急的抓钩探查了口袋，只带出了几块银子，——所以，无论你去哪里，以实玛利，当我站在一条沉闷的街道中央，肩上背着我的包，比​​较着北边阴沉，南边黑暗——无论您凭智慧决定在哪里过夜，亲爱的以实玛利，一定要询问价格，不要太挑剔。

With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed the sign of ‘The Crossed Harpoons’—but it looked too expensive and jolly there. Further on, from the bright red windows of the ‘Sword-Fish Inn,’ there came such fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice from before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement,—rather weary for me, when I struck my foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight. Too expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the broad glare in the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses within. But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don’t you hear? get away from before the door; your patched boots are stopping the way. So on I went. I now by instinct followed the streets that took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.
我踉踉跄跄地在街上踱步，经过了“交叉鱼叉”的牌子——但那里看起来太昂贵、太欢乐了。再往前，从“剑鱼客栈”鲜红的窗户里射出炽热的光芒，似乎已经融化了屋前的冰雪，其他地方都凝结了十英寸厚的霜。坚硬的沥青路面——当我的脚撞上坚硬的突起时，我感到相当疲倦，因为由于艰苦、无情的服役，我的靴底处于最悲惨的境地。太贵了，也太欢乐了，我再次想道，停下来看看街上的耀眼光芒，听听里面玻璃杯叮当作响的声音。但继续吧，以实玛利，我最后说道；你没听见吗？远离门前；你那双打过补丁的靴子挡住了路。所以我就去了。现在，我本能地沿着通往水边的街道走去，因为毫无疑问，那里有最便宜的旅馆，即使不是最令人愉快的旅馆。

Such dreary streets! blocks of blackness, not houses, on either hand, and here and there a candle, like a candle moving about in a tomb. At this hour of the night, of the last day of the week, that quarter of the town proved all but deserted. But presently I came to a smoky light proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which stood invitingly open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the uses of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over an ash-box in the porch. Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah? But ‘The Crossed Harpoons,’ and ‘The Sword-Fish?’—this, then must needs be the sign of ‘The Trap.’ However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice within, pushed on and opened a second, interior door.
多么沉闷的街道啊！两边都是一片漆黑，不是房子，到处都是蜡烛，就像坟墓里移动的蜡烛一样。在一周的最后一天晚上的这个时候，镇上的那一区几乎空无一人。但不久我就看到一盏烟雾灯从一栋低矮而宽阔的建筑物中射出，建筑物的门敞开着，令人着迷。看上去漫不经心，仿佛是供公众使用的。所以，一进门，我做的第一件事就是被门廊里的一个烟灰盒绊倒。哈！我想，哈，当飞舞的粒子几乎让我窒息时，这些灰烬是来自那个被摧毁的城市蛾摩拉吗？但是“交叉鱼叉”和“剑鱼？”——这一定是“陷阱”的标志。然而，我站了起来，听到里面有一个响亮的声音，继续前进，打开了第二个，室内门。

It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred black faces turned round in their rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the preacher’s text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping and wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out, Wretched entertainment at the sign of ‘The Trap!’
伟大的黑人议会似乎坐在托斐特。一百张黑脸在他们的行中转过身来凝视；再远处，一位黑色的末日天使正在讲坛上敲打一本书。那是一座黑人教堂；传道人的文字是关于黑暗的黑暗，以及那里的哭泣、哀号和咬牙切齿。哈，以实玛利，我低声说道，退出，“陷阱”标志下的可悲的娱乐！

Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw a swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath—‘The Spouter Inn:—Peter Coffin.’
继续前行，我终于来到了离码头不远的地方，看到了微弱的灯光，听见空气中传来凄凉的嘎吱声。抬头一看，看到门上挂着一个摆动的标牌，上面画着一幅白色的画，隐隐约约地代表着一股高高笔直的雾气喷射，下面写着这样的字——“喷水旅馆：——彼得·科芬。”

Coffin?—Spouter?—Rather ominous in that particular connexion, thought I. But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had a poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the very spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.
棺材？——斯普特？——在这个特定的联系中相当不祥，我想。但他们说，这是楠塔基特岛的一个常见名字，我想这里的彼得是从那里移民的。因为光线显得那么昏暗，而这个地方暂时看起来足够安静，而那座破旧的小木屋本身看起来就像是从某个被烧毁的地区的废墟上用车运到这里的，而且摇摆的标牌上有一个贫穷的感觉有点吱吱作响，我认为这里是廉价住宿和最好的豌豆咖啡的最佳地点。

It was a queer sort of place—a gable-ended old house, one side palsied as it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner, where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever it did about poor Paul’s tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the hob quietly toasting for bed. ‘In judging of that tempestuous wind called Euroclydon,’ says an old writer—of whose works I possess the only copy extant—‘it maketh a marvellous difference, whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outside, or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, where the frost is on both sides, and of which the wight Death is the only glazier.’ True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind—old black-letter, thou reasonest well. Yes, these eyes are windows, and this body of mine is the house. What a pity they didn’t stop up the chinks and the crannies though, and thrust in a little lint here and there. But it’s too late to make any improvements now. The universe is finished; the copestone is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and shaking off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags, and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out the tempestuous Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his red silken wrapper—(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh! What a fine frosty night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights! Let them talk of their oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the privilege of making my own summer with my own coals.
这是一个奇怪的地方——一栋有山墙的老房子，一侧似乎瘫痪了，悲伤地倾斜着。它矗立在一个荒凉的尖角上，狂风欧洲克里顿在那里发出比以往任何时候都更强烈的呼啸声，对可怜的保罗那艘被抛掷的船来说。然而，对于任何一个在室内、脚踩在炉灶上静静等待上床睡觉的人来说，Euroclydon 都是一股令人愉悦的微风。一位老作家说：“在判断那股名为欧洲克里登的狂风时，我拥有他现存的唯一一本作品，无论你是从窗户上看，那里都结满了霜，这都会产生惊人的差异。”外面，或者你是否从那扇没有窗框的窗户上观察它，那里的两边都是霜，死亡是其中唯一的玻璃。“千真万确，我想，当我脑海中浮现这段话时——古老的黑字，你说得很好。是的，这些眼睛就是窗户，我的身体就是房子。遗憾的是，他们没有堵住缝隙和缝隙，而是到处塞进一点棉绒。但现在做出任何改进都为时已晚。宇宙已完结；墓碑已经打开，碎石在一百万年前就被运走了。可怜的拉撒路，他的牙齿靠在路边石上作枕头，打战，颤抖着抖掉身上的破烂，他可能会用破布塞住两只耳朵，把一根玉米棒塞进嘴里，但这并不能阻止暴风雨般的欧洲克里登。欧洲克莱顿！老戴夫穿着红色丝绸外套说道——（后来他又换了一件更红的）呸，呸！多么美好的霜夜；猎户座如何闪闪发光；多么美妙的北极光啊！让他们谈论永恒的温室的东方夏日气候；让我有幸用自己的煤炭创造属于自己的夏天。

But what thinks Lazarus? Can he warm his blue hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights? Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here? Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along the line of the equator; yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery pit itself, in order to keep out this frost?
但拉撒路怎么想？他能否将蓝色的双手举向北极光来温暖它们？拉撒路难道不会宁愿在苏门答腊而不是在这里吗？他是否愿意让他沿着赤道线纵向躺下？是的，诸神们！深入火坑本身，以抵御这种霜冻？

Now, that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the door of Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be moored to one of the Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a Czar in an ice palace made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a temperance society, he only drinks the tepid tears of orphans.
现在，拉扎勒斯被困在迪夫斯门前的路边石上，这比一座冰山停泊在摩鹿加群岛上更美妙。然而迪夫斯本人也像沙皇一样生活在一座由冰冷的叹息组成的冰宫里，作为一个禁酒协会的主席，他只喝孤儿温热的眼泪。

But no more of this blubbering now, we are going a-whaling, and there is plenty of that yet to come. Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet, and see what sort of a place this ‘Spouter’ may be.
但现在不要再哭了，我们要去捕鲸，而且还有很多事情要做。让我们把结霜的脚上的冰刮掉，看看这个“喷水器”到底是个什么样的地方。

Chapter 3
第3章

The Spouter-Inn.
斯普特旅馆。

Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a wide, low, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one of the bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On one side hung a very large oilpainting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in the unequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint of much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the entry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might not be altogether unwarranted.
走进那家有山墙的 Spouter-Inn，你会发现自己身处一个宽阔、低矮、杂乱的入口，里面有老式的壁板，让人想起一些废弃的旧工艺的舷墙。一侧挂着一幅非常大的油画，它被彻底熏黑了，各个方面都被污损了，在不均匀的十字光下观看它，只有通过勤奋的研究和一系列系统的参观，以及对邻居的仔细询问，你才能看到它。您可以通过任何方式了解其目的。如此难以解释的大量阴影和阴影，乍一看你几乎以为是新英格兰女巫时代某个雄心勃勃的年轻艺术家试图描绘出令人着迷的混乱。但是，通过大量而认真的沉思，以及经常反复的思考，特别是通过打开入口后面的小窗户，你最终得出的结论是，这样的想法，无论多么疯狂，可能并非完全没有根据。

But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber, portentous, black mass of something hovering in the centre of the picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a nameless yeast. A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous man distracted. Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained, unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous painting meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart you through.—It’s the Black Sea in a midnight gale.—It’s the unnatural combat of the four primal elements.—It’s a blasted heath.—It’s a Hyperborean winter scene.—It’s the breaking-up of the icebound stream of Time. But at last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous something in the picture’s midst. THAT once found out, and all the rest were plain. But stop; does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish? even the great leviathan himself?
但最让你困惑和困惑的是，画面中央有一团长长的、柔软的、不祥的、黑色的东西盘旋在三条蓝色、暗淡、垂直的线条上，漂浮在无名的酵母中。确实是一幅沼泽、潮湿、湿漉漉的画面，足以让一个紧张的人分心。然而，它是否有一种不确定的、未达到的、难以想象的崇高感，让你对它相当冻结，直到你不由自主地向自己发誓，要找出那幅奇妙的画作的含义。时不时会有一个聪明的想法，但是，唉，欺骗性的想法会带你穿越。——这是午夜狂风中的黑海。——这是四种原始元素的不自然的战斗。——这是一片被诅咒的荒原。——这是北境的冬季场景。 ……这是冰封的时间之流的破裂。但最终所有这些幻想都屈服于画面中的那个不祥的东西。一旦发现了，剩下的一切就很简单了。但停下来；是不是有点像一条大鱼？甚至是伟大的利维坦本人？

In fact, the artist’s design seemed this: a final theory of my own, partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with whom I conversed upon the subject. The picture represents a Cape-Horner in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to spring clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself upon the three mast-heads.
事实上，艺术家的设计看起来是这样的：我自己的最终理论，部分基于与我就该主题交谈的许多老年人的汇总意见。这张照片描绘了一场巨大飓风中的霍纳角号；那艘半沉的船在那里摇摇欲坠，只有三根被拆除的桅杆清晰可见。一只愤怒的鲸鱼打算从船上跳过去，做出了巨大的举动，将自己刺穿了三个桅​​杆头。

The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set with glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower. You shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying implement. Mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken and deformed. Some were storied weapons. With this once long lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And that harpoon—so like a corkscrew now—was flung in Javan seas, and run away with by a whale, years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco. The original iron entered nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a man, travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the hump.
这个入口对面的墙上挂满了异教徒的巨大棍棒和长矛。有些长满了闪闪发光的牙齿，就像象牙锯一样；其他的则扎满了人发结。其中一个是镰刀形状的，有一个巨大的手柄，就像长臂割草机在新割的草上划出的部分一样。当你凝视时，你不寒而栗，想知道什么样的可怕的食人者和野蛮人会用如此骇人的工具进行死亡收割。其中混杂着生锈的旧捕鲸矛和鱼叉，全部破损变形。有些是传奇武器。五十年前，内森·斯温（Nathan Swain）用这把曾经很长的长矛，现在被疯狂地肘击，在日出和日落之间杀死了十五头鲸鱼。那根鱼叉——现在就像一个开瓶器——被扔进爪哇海，被鲸鱼带走，几年后在布兰科角被杀死。原来的铁进入了尾部附近，就像一根不安分的针在人体内寄居，走了整整四十英尺，最后被发现嵌在驼峰里。

Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way—cut through what in old times must have been a great central chimney with fireplaces all round—you enter the public room. A still duskier place is this, with such low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled planks beneath, that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft’s cockpits, especially of such a howling night, when this corner-anchored old ark rocked so furiously. On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like table covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty rarities gathered from this wide world’s remotest nooks. Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den—the bar—a rude attempt at a right whale’s head. Be that how it may, there stands the vast arched bone of the whale’s jaw, so wide, a coach might almost drive beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors deliriums and death.
穿过这个昏暗的入口，穿过那条低矮的拱门——穿过过去一定是一个巨大的中央烟囱，周围都有壁炉——你就进入了公共房间。这是一个更加昏暗的地方，上面有如此低沉的横梁，下面有如此古老、皱巴巴的木板，你几乎会以为自己踩在了一些旧船的驾驶舱上，尤其是在这样一个嚎叫的夜晚，当这艘角锚式的旧方舟如此剧烈地摇晃时。一侧摆着一张长长的、低矮的、架子一样的桌子，上面摆满了破裂的玻璃柜，里面装满了从这个广阔的世界最偏远的角落收集来的尘土飞扬的珍品。从房间的另一个角度伸出来的是一个看上去漆黑的巢穴——酒吧——这是对露脊鲸头部的粗鲁尝试。不管怎样，鲸鱼下巴巨大的拱形骨头矗立在那里，如此宽，一辆马车几乎可以在它下面行驶。里面有破旧的架子，周围摆满了旧的醒酒器、瓶子、烧瓶。在那些迅速毁灭的大嘴里，就像另一个被诅咒的约拿（他们确实用这个名字称呼他）一样，忙碌着一个枯萎的小老人，他为了钱，高价出卖了水手们的精神错乱和死亡。

Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though true cylinders without—within, the villanous green goggling glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads’ goblets. Fill to THIS mark, and your charge is but a penny; to THIS a penny more; and so on to the full glass—the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down for a shilling.
他倒毒药的杯子是可憎的。虽然内外都是真正的圆柱体，但那副邪恶的绿色护目镜却欺骗性地向下逐渐变细，形成欺骗性的底部。平行的经络粗鲁地啄入玻璃，包围着这些脚垫的高脚杯。填充到这个标记，你的费用只是一分钱；多加一分钱；依此类推，到满杯——合恩角量度，你可以花一先令喝下去。

Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of SKRIMSHANDER. I sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with a room, received for answer that his house was full—not a bed unoccupied. ‘But avast,’ he added, tapping his forehead, ‘you haint no objections to sharing a harpooneer’s blanket, have ye? I s’pose you are goin’ a-whalin’, so you’d better get used to that sort of thing.’
进入这个地方后，我发现一些年轻的海员聚集在一张桌子旁，在昏暗的灯光下检查 SKRIMSHANDER 的潜水标本。我找到房东，告诉他我想要一个房间，得到的答复是他的房子已经住满了——没有一张床空着。 “但是阿瓦斯特，”他拍着额头补充道，“你不反对共用一条标枪手的毯子，不是吗？我想你要去捕鲸了，所以你最好习惯这种事情。

I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the harpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander further about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with the half of any decent man’s blanket.
我告诉他我从来不喜欢两个人​​睡在一张床上；如果我这样做，那将取决于标枪手是谁，如果他（房东）真的没有其他地方可以容纳我，而且标枪手也不是绝对反对的，为什么不去进一步徘徊在一个陌生的地方呢？在如此寒冷的夜晚，我愿意忍受任何正派男人的一半毯子。

‘I thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?—you want supper? Supper’ll be ready directly.’
'我是这么想的。好的;请坐。晚饭？——你想吃晚饭吗？晚饭马上就准备好了。”

I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on the Battery. At one end a ruminating tar was still further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space between his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, but he didn’t make much headway, I thought.
我坐在一张旧木凳上，上面的雕刻就像炮台上的长凳一样。一端，一位沉思的焦油人仍在用他的折刀进一步装饰它，弯下腰，勤奋地清理他两腿之间的空间。他正在尝试驾驶一艘全速航行的船，但我想他并没有取得多大进展。

At last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an adjoining room. It was cold as Iceland—no fire at all—the landlord said he couldn’t afford it. Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers. But the fare was of the most substantial kind—not only meat and potatoes, but dumplings; good heavens! dumplings for supper! One young fellow in a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direful manner.
最后，我们大约四五个人被叫到隔壁房间吃饭。天气像冰岛一样冷——根本没有生火——房东说他负担不起。除了两根惨淡的牛油蜡烛之外什么也没有，每根蜡烛都裹在裹尸布里。我们很乐意扣上猴子夹克的扣子，用半冻的手指捧着滚烫的茶杯。但食物是最丰盛的——不仅有肉和土豆，还有饺子。我的妈呀！晚饭吃饺子！一个穿着绿色工装外套的年轻人以一种极其可怕的方式对着这些饺子说话。

‘My boy,’ said the landlord, ‘you’ll have the nightmare to a dead sartainty.’
“我的孩子，”房东说，“你会做一场极其讽刺的噩梦。”

‘Landlord,’ I whispered, ‘that aint the harpooneer is it?’
“房东，”我低声说道，“那不是标枪手吗？”

‘Oh, no,’ said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, ‘the harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap. He never eats dumplings, he don’t—he eats nothing but steaks, and he likes ‘em rare.’
“哦，不，”他说，看上去有点滑稽，“标枪手是个肤色黝黑的小伙子。”他从不吃饺子，他不吃——他只吃牛排，而且他喜欢“生的饺子”。

‘The devil he does,’ says I. ‘Where is that harpooneer? Is he here?’
“真是见鬼了，”我说，“那个标枪手在哪儿？他在这里吗？'

‘He’ll be here afore long,’ was the answer.
“他很快就会来这里，”回答道。

I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this ‘dark complexioned’ harpooneer. At any rate, I made up my mind that if it so turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into bed before I did.
我忍不住，开始对这个“肤色黝黑”的标枪手产生了怀疑。无论如何，我下定决心，如果我们真的应该睡在一起，他必须在我之前脱掉衣服并上床睡觉。

Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not what else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening as a looker on.
晚饭结束后，大家回到酒吧，我不知道自己还能做什么，于是决定用晚上剩下的时间去旁观。

Presently a rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, the landlord cried, ‘That’s the Grampus’s crew. I seed her reported in the offing this morning; a three years’ voyage, and a full ship. Hurrah, boys; now we’ll have the latest news from the Feegees.’
不久，外面传来骚乱的声音。房东一醒来就喊道：“那是鲸八号的船员。”我看到她今天早上即将报道；三年的航程，满载的船只。万岁，孩子们；现在我们将收到来自 Feegees 的最新消息。

A tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough. Enveloped in their shaggy watch coats, and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters, all bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador. They had just landed from their boat, and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then, that they made a straight wake for the whale’s mouth—the bar—when the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out brimmers all round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or on the weather side of an ice-island.
入口处传来海靴踩踏的声音。门猛地打开，一群狂野的水手滚了进来。他们裹着蓬乱的值班外套，头上蒙着羊毛被，衣衫褴褛，胡须结满了冰柱，看上去就像一群来自拉布拉多的熊。他们刚刚下船，这是他们进入的第一栋房子。那么，难怪他们径直朝鲸鱼的嘴——酒吧——当主持的、满脸皱纹的小老乔纳，很快就把他们的酒杯倒了出来。其中一个人抱怨他的头得了重感冒，约拿给他混合了一种由杜松子酒和糖蜜混合而成的沥青状药水，他发誓这是治疗所有感冒和粘膜炎的良药，无论放置多久，也不管是否被感染。拉布拉多海岸，或冰岛的迎风面。

The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began capering about most obstreperously.
酒很快就进入了他们的头脑，就像刚从海上登陆的最厉害的酒鬼一样，他们开始疯狂地跳来跳去。

I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much noise as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I will here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full six feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I have seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to give him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was a Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. When the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped away unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the sea. In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite with them, they raised a cry of ‘Bulkington! Bulkington! where’s Bulkington?’ and darted out of the house in pursuit of him.
然而，我观察到，其中一个人显得有些冷漠，虽然他似乎不想用自己冷静的表情破坏船友们的欢闹，但总的来说，他没有像其他人那样发出太多噪音。这个人立刻引起了我的兴趣。由于海神命定他很快就会成为我的船友（尽管就本叙述而言，只是一个睡伴），所以我将在这里冒险对他进行一些描述。他身高足有六尺，肩膀高贵，胸膛如堤坝一般。我很少见过有如此肌肉发达的男人。他的脸呈深褐色，被烧焦了，洁白的牙齿在对比下显得耀眼。而他眼眸深处的阴影里，却浮现出一些似乎并没有给他带来多少快乐的回忆。他的声音立刻表明他是南方人，从他身材魁梧的身材来看，我想他一定是来自弗吉尼亚州阿利根尼亚山脊的高大登山者之一。当他的同伴们的狂欢达到高潮时，这个人悄无声息地溜走了，我再也没有见过他，直到他成为我在海上的战友。然而，几分钟后，他的船员们就想念他了，而且似乎由于某种原因，他很受他们的喜爱，他们大声喊道：“布尔金顿！”布尔金顿！布尔金顿在哪里？”然后冲出房子去追他。

It was now about nine o’clock, and the room seeming almost supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance of the seamen.
现在大约九点钟了，在这些狂欢之后，房间里显得异常安静，我开始庆幸自己在海员们进来之前想到的一个小计划。

No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you would a good deal rather not sleep with your own brother. I don’t know how it is, but people like to be private when they are sleeping. And when it comes to sleeping with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, and that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely multiply. Nor was there any earthly reason why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore. To be sure they all sleep together in one apartment, but you have your own hammock, and cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your own skin.
没有人愿意两个人睡在一张床上。事实上，你宁愿不和自己的兄弟一起睡觉。我不知道这是怎么回事，但人们在睡觉时喜欢保持私密。当谈到与一个不知名的陌生人一起睡觉，在一个陌生的旅馆，在一个陌生的城镇，而那个陌生人是一个标枪手时，你的反对意见就会无限地增加。也没有任何世俗的理由让我作为一名水手比其他任何人都应该睡两个人在一张床上。因为水手们在海上不会睡两个人在一张床上，就像单身国王在岸上睡一样。当然，他们都睡在一间公寓里，但你有自己的吊床，用自己的毯子盖住自己，睡在自己的皮肤里。

The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated the thought of sleeping with him. It was fair to presume that being a harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the tidiest, certainly none of the finest. I began to twitch all over. Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going bedwards. Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight—how could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming?
我越想这个标枪手，就越厌恶和他一起睡觉。可以公平地假设，作为一名标枪手，他的亚麻或羊毛织物（视情况而定）不会是最整洁的，当然也不是最好的。我开始浑身抽搐。此外，时间已经很晚了，我这位体面的标枪手应该回家睡觉了。现在假设，他在半夜撞到我身上——我怎么能从哪个肮脏的洞里看出他来了呢？

‘Landlord! I’ve changed my mind about that harpooneer.—I shan’t sleep with him. I’ll try the bench here.’
'房东！我对那个标枪手改变了主意。——我不会和他一起睡觉。我会试试这里的板凳。

‘Just as you please; I’m sorry I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress, and it’s a plaguy rough board here’—feeling of the knots and notches. ‘But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I’ve got a carpenter’s plane there in the bar—wait, I say, and I’ll make ye snug enough.’ So saying he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinning like an ape. The shavings flew right and left; till at last the plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The landlord was near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven’s sake to quit—the bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up the shavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in the middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a brown study.
‘随你便；抱歉，我不能给你们提供一块桌布当床垫，而且这里是一块粗糙的木板”——有结和凹口的感觉。 “但是等一下，Skrimshander；我在酒吧里有一架木匠飞机——等等，我说，我会让你舒服一些的。他先用旧丝绸手帕掸去长凳上的灰尘，然后用力地在我的床上刨去，同时像猿猴一样咧着嘴笑。刨花左右飞舞；直到最后，刨铁碰到了一个坚不可摧的结。房东差点扭伤手腕，我看在上帝的份上告诉他别再这样了——床很软，很适合我，而且我不知道世界上所有的刨削方法怎么能把松木板做成羽绒。于是，他又咧嘴一笑，把刨花收集起来，扔进房间中央的大炉子里，继续干他的事，把我留在一间棕色的书房里。

I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too short; but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot too narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher than the planed one—so there was no yoking them. I then placed the first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall, leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all, especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.
现在我量了一下长凳，发现它短了一英尺。但这可以用一把椅子来弥补。但它太窄了一英尺，而且房间里的另一张长凳比刨好的长凳高了大约四英寸——所以没有办法束缚它们。然后我把第一张长凳沿着靠墙唯一的空地纵向放置，中间留了一点间隔，让我的背坐下来。但我很快就发现，从窗台下吹来一股冷气，吹到了我的身上。窗户，这个计划根本行不通，尤其是当另一股气流从摇摇欲坠的门与窗户的气流相遇时，两者一起在我本想度过的地方附近形成一系列小旋风。夜晚。

The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn’t I steal a march on him—bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon second thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what the next morning, so soon as I popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all ready to knock me down!
魔鬼把那个标枪手抓来了，我心想，但是停下来，我不能偷偷地向他走去——把他的门锁在里面，然后跳到他的床上，以免被最猛烈的敲门声吵醒吗？这似乎是个不错的主意。但转念一想，我又打消了这个念头。谁知道第二天早上会发生什么，当我冲出房间时，标枪手可能就站在入口处，准备将我击倒！

Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other person’s bed, I began to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices against this unknown harpooneer. Thinks I, I’ll wait awhile; he must be dropping in before long. I’ll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we may become jolly good bedfellows after all—there’s no telling.
尽管如此，再次环顾四周，发现除非在别人的床上否则不可能度过一个痛苦的夜晚，我开始想，毕竟我可能对这个不知名的标枪手怀有毫无根据的偏见。我想，我会等一会儿；他一定很快就会过来。到时候我会好好看看他，也许我们最终会成为好伙伴——谁也说不准。

But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes, and going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.
尽管其他寄宿生不断地三三两两地进来并上床睡觉，但我的标枪手却不见踪影。

‘Landlord! said I, ‘what sort of a chap is he—does he always keep such late hours?’ It was now hard upon twelve o’clock.
'房东！我说：“他是个什么样的人——他总是熬这么晚吗？”现在已经十二点了。

The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension. ‘No,’ he answered, ‘generally he’s an early bird—airley to bed and airley to rise—yes, he’s the bird what catches the worm. But to-night he went out a peddling, you see, and I don’t see what on airth keeps him so late, unless, may be, he can’t sell his head.’
房东又咯咯地笑起来，他那瘦弱的笑声，似乎对我无法理解的事情感到非常高兴。 “不，”他回答道，“一般来说，他是一只早起的鸟儿——早起睡觉，起床——是的，他是一只有虫吃的鸟。”但今晚他出去兜售了，你看，我不明白到底是什么让他这么晚，除非，也许，他不能卖掉他的头。

‘Can’t sell his head?—What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you are telling me?’ getting into a towering rage. ‘Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head around this town?’
“不能卖掉他的头吗？——你给我讲的这到底是个什么鬼故事？”勃然大怒。 “房东，你是不是假装说，这个标枪手实际上是在这个神圣的周六晚上，或者更确切地说是周日早上，在这个小镇上兜售他的头？”

‘That’s precisely it,’ said the landlord, ‘and I told him he couldn’t sell it here, the market’s overstocked.’
“正是这样，”房东说，“我告诉他不能在这里卖，市场库存过剩。”

‘With what?’ shouted I.
“用什么？”我喊道。

‘With heads to be sure; ain’t there too many heads in the world?’
“肯定有头脑；世界上的头不是太多了吗？

‘I tell you what it is, landlord,’ said I quite calmly, ‘you’d better stop spinning that yarn to me—I’m not green.’
“我告诉你那是什么，房东，”我相当平静地说，“你最好别再给我编这种故事了——我不是新手。”

‘May be not,’ taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, ‘but I rayther guess you’ll be done BROWN if that ere harpooneer hears you a slanderin’ his head.’
“也许不是，”拿出一根棍子，削了一根牙签，“但我猜想，如果那个标枪手听到你对他脑袋的诽谤，你就完了。”

‘I’ll break it for him,’ said I, now flying into a passion again at this unaccountable farrago of the landlord’s.
“我会为他打破它，”我说，现在又对房东的这种莫名其妙的胡言乱语充满了热情。

‘It’s broke a’ready,’ said he.
“它已经坏了，”他说。

‘Broke,’ said I—‘BROKE, do you mean?’
“破产了，”我说——“你是说破产了？”

‘Sartain, and that’s the very reason he can’t sell it, I guess.’
“萨坦，我猜这就是他卖不掉它的原因。”

‘Landlord,’ said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. Hecla in a snow-storm—‘landlord, stop whittling. You and I must understand one another, and that too without delay. I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this harpooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and exasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow—a sort of connexion, landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest degree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the night with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay that story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I’ve no idea of sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, YOU I mean, landlord, YOU, sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself liable to a criminal prosecution.’
“房东，”我像暴风雪中的赫克拉山一样冷静地走向他——“房东，别再削了。”你我必须互相理解，而且不能拖延。我来到你家想要一张床；你告诉我你只能给我半个；另一半属于某个标枪手。关于这个我还没见过的标枪手，你坚持给我讲最神秘、最令人恼火的故事，这些故事往往会让我对你为我的同床者设计的人产生一种不舒服的感觉——一种联系，房东，这是一种联系。一种最高程度的亲密和保密。现在我要求你说出来，告诉我这个标枪手是谁、是什么，以及我和他一起过夜是否安全。首先，你会很好地取消那个关于卖掉他的头的故事，如果这是真的，我认为这是这个标枪手完全疯了的有力证据，而且我不知道和一个疯子睡觉；而你，先生，我的意思是，房东，你，先生，如果你试图在知情的情况下诱使我这样做，那么你就会受到刑事起诉。

‘Wall,’ said the landlord, fetching a long breath, ‘that’s a purty long sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, be easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin’ you of has just arrived from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of ‘balmed New Zealand heads (great curios, you know), and he’s sold all on ‘em but one, and that one he’s trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow’s Sunday, and it would not do to be sellin’ human heads about the streets when folks is goin’ to churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was goin’ out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the airth like a string of inions.’
“沃尔，”房东长长地吸了一口气，说道，“对于一个偶尔会撕扯一点的小伙子来说，这是一篇很长的萨蒙文。”但是放轻松，放轻松，我一直告诉你的这个鱼叉手刚刚从南海抵达，他在那里买了很多“香脂新西兰鱼头（很棒的古玩，你知道），他把所有的东西都卖了”他们只是一个，而他今晚想卖的那个，因为明天是周日，当人们去教堂时，在街上出售人头是不行的。上周日他想这么做，但当他四个头被绳子串着走出门时，我阻止了他，实际上就像一串铭文。

This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me—but at the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal business as selling the heads of dead idolators?
这个叙述澄清了原本无法解释的谜团，并表明房东毕竟没有欺骗我的想法，但同时我又能想到一个在周六晚上干净地进入神圣安息日的标枪手吗？从事像出售死去的偶像崇拜者的头颅这样的食人生意？

‘Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man.’
“放心吧，房东，那个标枪手是个危险人物。”

‘He pays reg’lar,’ was the rejoinder. ‘But come, it’s getting dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes—it’s a nice bed; Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced. There’s plenty of room for two to kick about in that bed; it’s an almighty big bed that. Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in the foot of it. But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm. Arter that, Sal said it wouldn’t do. Come along here, I’ll give ye a glim in a jiffy;’ and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards me, offering to lead the way. But I stood irresolute; when looking at a clock in the corner, he exclaimed ‘I vum it’s Sunday—you won’t see that harpooneer to-night; he’s come to anchor somewhere—come along then; DO come; WON’T ye come?’
“他付了正规的钱，”他反驳道。 “但是来吧，天色已经晚了，你最好还是抱侥幸心理吧——这是一张很好的床；接合那天晚上，萨尔和我就睡在那张床上。那张床上有足够的空间供两个人玩耍。这是一张万能的大床。为什么，在我们放弃它之前，萨尔常常把我们的山姆和小约翰尼放在它的脚下。但有一天晚上，我做了一个梦，四肢伸开，不知怎的，萨姆摔倒在地板上，差点摔断手臂。之后，萨尔说不行。过来吧，我一会儿就给你看一眼；”说着他点燃了一支蜡烛，把它举向我，主动提出带路。但我犹豫不决；当他看着角落里的时钟时，他惊呼道：“我今天是星期天——今晚你不会看到那个标枪手了；”他已经在某个地方抛锚了——那就一起来吧；一定要来；你不来吗？

I considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough, with a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep abreast.
我想了一会儿这个问题，然后我们上了楼，我被带进了一个小房间，冷得像蛤蜊一样，果然，里面有一张巨大的床，几乎足够四个标枪手并排睡觉。 。

‘There,’ said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; ‘there, make yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.’ I turned round from eyeing the bed, but he had disappeared.
“在那里，”房东说，把蜡烛放在一个疯狂的旧航海柜上，这个柜子兼具盥洗台和中央桌子的双重功能。 “好了，现在舒服点，晚安。”我从床上看过去，转过身来，但他已经消失了。

Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well. I then glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table, could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale. Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large seaman’s bag, containing the harpooneer’s wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a land trunk. Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed.
我掀开床单，弯下腰。虽然不是最优雅的，但它仍然经得起推敲。然后我环视了房间；除了床架和中央桌子之外，看不到其他属于这个地方的家具，只有一个简陋的架子、四堵墙和一块纸制的防火板，上面画着一个人在打鲸鱼。在不属于这个房间的东西中，有一个吊床被绑起来，扔在角落的地板上；还有一个大水手包，里面装着标枪手的衣柜，毫无疑问是用来代替陆地行李箱的。同样，壁炉上方的架子上还有一包奇特的骨制鱼钩，床头立着一根高高的鱼叉。

But what is this on the chest? I took it up, and held it close to the light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare it to nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my life. I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in the neck.
但胸口上的这个是什么？我拿起它，靠近灯光，感受它，闻闻它，并尝试一切可能的方法来得出一些令人满意的结论。我只能把它比作一块大门垫，边缘装饰着叮当作响的小标签，就像印度莫卡辛鞋周围沾满污迹的豪猪羽毛一样。垫子中间有一个洞或缝隙，就像您在南美雨披中看到的那样。但有可能任何清醒的标枪手都会钻进门垫，以这种伪装在任何基督教城镇的街道上游行吗？我戴上它，尝试一下，它像一个篮子一样压在我身上，异常的毛茸茸的和厚重的，我觉得有点潮湿，好像这个神秘的鱼叉手在雨天穿着它一样。我登上了一块贴在墙上的玻璃，我一生中从未见过这样的景象。我急忙挣脱出来，脖子扭了一下。

I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time on the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought a little more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about the harpooneer’s not coming home at all that night, it being so very late, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of heaven.
我在床边坐下，开始思考这个用头兜售的标枪手和他的门垫。在床边想了一会儿，我起身脱掉了猴子夹克，然后站在房间中央想了想。然后我脱下外套，在衬衫袖子里又想了一些。但现在开始感觉很冷，因为我半脱了衣服，想起房东所说的标枪手那天晚上根本不回家的事，当时已经很晚了，我不再多管闲事，而是跳下我的裤子，靴子，然后吹灭灯，倒在床上，并把自己交托给上天的眷顾。

Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery, there is no telling, but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep for a long time. At last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a good offing towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door.
那个床垫里塞的是玉米棒子还是碎陶器，不得而知，但我翻来覆去，好久都睡不着。最后，我打了个瞌睡，几乎就快要踏上Nod之地了，这时我听到过道里有沉重的脚步声，看到一道微光从门下照进房间。

Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal head-peddler. But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to. Holding a light in one hand, and that identical New Zealand head in the other, the stranger entered the room, and without looking towards the bed, placed his candle a good way off from me on the floor in one corner, and then began working away at the knotted cords of the large bag I before spoke of as being in the room. I was all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time while employed in unlacing the bag’s mouth. This accomplished, however, he turned round—when, good heavens! what a sight! Such a face! It was of a dark, purplish, yellow colour, here and there stuck over with large blackish looking squares. Yes, it’s just as I thought, he’s a terrible bedfellow; he’s been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is, just from the surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all, those black squares on his cheeks. They were stains of some sort or other. At first I knew not what to make of this; but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. I remembered a story of a white man—a whaleman too—who, falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course of his distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. And what is it, thought I, after all! It’s only his outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin. But then, what to make of his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely independent of the squares of tattooing. To be sure, it might be nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun’s tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one. However, I had never been in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary effects upon the skin. Now, while all these ideas were passing through me like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at all. But, after some difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on. Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the New Zealand head—a ghastly thing enough—and crammed it down into the bag. He now took off his hat—a new beaver hat—when I came nigh singing out with fresh surprise. There was no hair on his head—none to speak of at least—nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His bald purplish head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull. Had not the stranger stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker than ever I bolted a dinner.
上帝保佑我，我想，那肯定是标枪手，那个可恶的人头贩子。但我一动不动地躺着，决定在有人开口之前不说一句话。陌生人一手拿着一盏灯，另一只手拿着那个一模一样的新西兰头像，走进房间，没有看向床，而是把他的蜡烛放在离我很远的一个角落的地板上，然后开始工作远离我之前提到的房间里那个大包的打结绳子。我非常渴望看到他的脸，但他在解开包口时却回避了一会儿。然而，这一切完成后，他转过身来——天哪！多么壮观啊！就这么一张脸！它呈深色、紫色、黄色，到处都粘着大块的黑色方块。是的，正如我所想的那样，他是一个糟糕的同床异梦。他经历过一场战斗，被严重割伤，而他就在这里，刚刚从外科医生那里出来。但就在那时，他恰巧把脸转向了光线，我清楚地看到他脸颊上的那些黑色方块根本不可能是膏药。它们是某种污渍。起初我不知道该怎么办。但很快我就意识到了真相。我记得一个白人的故事——也是一名捕鲸人——他跌倒在食人族中间，被他们文身了。我断定，这位鱼叉手在他的远航过程中一定也遇到过类似的冒险。我想，这到底是什么！这只是他的外表；任何类型的人都可以诚实。但是，那么，他那超凡脱俗的肤色又是怎样的呢？我是说，那部分肤色四处散布，完全独立于纹身的方格。 可以肯定的是，它可能只不过是一件很好的热带晒黑外套；但我从未听说过烈日将白人晒成紫黄色。然而，我从未去过南海；也许那里的阳光对皮肤产生了这些非凡的效果。现在，虽然所有这些想法都像闪电一样掠过我的脑海，但这位鱼叉手却根本没有注意到我。但是，费了好大劲才打开包，他开始在里面摸索，不久就掏出了一把战斧，还有一个带头发的海豹皮钱包。他把这些东西放在房间中央的旧箱子上，然后把新西兰的头颅——一个够可怕的东西——塞进袋子里。当我带着新的惊喜走近时，他摘下了帽子——一顶新的海狸帽。他的头上没有头发——至少没有头发——只有额头上盘绕着一个小头皮结。他那紫色的秃头现在看起来就像是一颗发霉的头骨。如果不是那个陌生人挡在我和门之间，我会比吃晚饭时更快地逃出去。

Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but it was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension. Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of him as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.
即便如此，我还是想从窗户溜出去，但那是二楼后面。我不是胆小鬼，但我完全无法理解这个以头脑为卖点的紫色流氓到底是怎么回事。无知是恐惧之母，我对这个陌生人感到完全困惑和困惑，我承认我现在非常害怕他，就好像魔鬼本人在夜深人静时闯入了我的房间一样。事实上，我太害怕他了，以至于当时我还没有足够的勇气去跟他说话，并要求他对他身上似乎令人费解的事情给予满意的答复。

Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed his chest and arms. As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered with the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same dark squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years’ War, and just escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. Still more, his very legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms. It was now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian country. I quaked to think of it. A peddler of heads too—perhaps the heads of his own brothers. He might take a fancy to mine—heavens! look at that tomahawk!
与此同时，他继续脱衣服，终于露出了自己的胸部和手臂。在我活着的时候，他身上这些被覆盖的部分布满了与他的脸相同的方格。他的背部也布满了同样的黑色方块。他仿佛经历了一场三十年战争，然后用一件创可贴衬衫逃离了战争。更重要的是，他的腿上也有痕迹，就像一群深绿色的青蛙在年轻的棕榈树干上爬行。现在很明显，他一定是某个可恶的野蛮人或其他人，被一艘南海的捕鲸船运到了这个基督教国家。我一想到这件事就浑身发抖。也是一个人头小贩——也许是他自己兄弟的人头。他可能会看中我的——天啊！看看那把战斧！

But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that he must indeed be a heathen. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days’ old Congo baby. Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner. But seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savage goes up to the empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board, sets up this little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between the andirons. The chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty, so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel for his Congo idol.
但我没有时间颤抖，因为现在这个野蛮人所做的事情完全吸引了我的注意力，并让我相信他确实是一个异教徒。他走到他之前挂在椅子上的厚重的格雷戈，或者裹布，或者无畏舰上，在口袋里摸索着，最后拿出了一个奇怪的小变形图像，背上有一个驼背，颜色完全是三号的颜色。刚出生几天的刚果婴儿。想起那个经过防腐处理的头颅，起初我几乎以为这个黑色人体模型是一个以类似方式保存的真正的婴儿。但看到它一点也不柔软，而且闪闪发光，就像抛光的乌木一样，我断定它一定只是一个木制神像，事实证明确实如此。现在，野蛮人走到空火炉旁，取下纸制的火板，在熨斗之间竖起这个驼背的小雕像，就像一个十针。烟囱侧柱和里面的所有砖块都被熏黑了，所以我认为这个壁炉为他的刚果偶像建造了一个非常合适的小神殿或教堂。

I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half hidden image, feeling but ill at ease meantime—to see what was next to follow. First he takes about a double handful of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship biscuit on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings into a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into the fire, and still hastier withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit; then blowing off the heat and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of it to the little negro. But the little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never moved his lips. All these strange antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from the devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or else singing some pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched about in the most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took the idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.
我现在紧紧地盯着那半隐藏的图像，同时感到不安——想看看接下来会发生什么。首先，他从格雷戈口袋里拿出两把刨花，小心翼翼地将它们放在神像面前；然后，他在上面放了一点船饼干，并用灯的火焰，将刨花点燃成牺牲的火焰。不久，他急忙把手指伸进火里，又急忙抽出手指（手指似乎被烧得很厉害），他终于成功地把饼干抽了出来。然后吹掉一点热气和灰烬，他礼貌地向小黑人提出了这个要求。但小鬼似乎根本不喜欢这种干巴巴的食物。他的嘴唇从未动过。所有这些奇怪的滑稽动作都伴随着来自奉献者的更奇怪的喉音，他似乎在唱歌祈祷，或者唱着异教的圣歌或其他，在此期间，他的脸以最不自然的方式抽搐。最后把火扑灭后，他毫不客气地把神像捡起来，又把它装进自己的格雷戈口袋里，漫不经心，就像一个运动员装一只死山鹬一样。

All these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business operations, and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time, now or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in which I had so long been bound.
所有这些奇怪的举动都增加了我的不舒服感，看到他现在表现出强烈的结束他的生意的症状，并跳到我床上，我想现在是时候了，或者永远，在灯熄灭之前，打破这个咒语我长期以来一直被束缚在其中。

But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one. Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment the light was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me. I sang out, I could not help it now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.
但我在考虑该说些什么时所花费的时间是致命的。他从桌子上拿起战斧，检查了一下它的头部，然后把它举到灯光下，嘴放在手柄上，他喷出了一大团烟草烟雾。下一刻，灯灭了，这个狂野的食人者，叼着战斧，跳到了我的床上。我大声唱了起来，我现在忍不住了；他突然惊讶地咕哝了一声，开始感觉到我。

Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from him against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again. But his guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my meaning.
我结结巴巴地说了些什么，我不知道说什么，我从他身边滚到墙上，然后召唤他，无论他是谁或是什么，保持安静，让我站起来再次点灯。但他的喉音回答立刻让我确信他没有理解我的意思。

‘Who-e debel you?’—he at last said—‘you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e.’ And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the dark.
“谁诽谤你了？”——他最后说道——“你别说话，该死的，我杀了你。”说着，那把发光的战斧开始在黑暗中在我周围挥舞。

‘Landlord, for God’s sake, Peter Coffin!’ shouted I. ‘Landlord! Watch! Coffin! Angels! save me!’
“房东，看在上帝的份上，彼得·柯芬！”我喊道，“房东！手表！棺材！天使们！救我！'

‘Speak-e! tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!’ again growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought my linen would get on fire. But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord came into the room light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
‘说吧！告诉我你是谁，或者该死的我，我杀了你！”食人者再次咆哮，他可怕的战斧挥动，把滚烫的烟草灰撒在我身上，直到我以为我的亚麻布会着火。但谢天谢地，就在这时，房东轻手轻脚地走进了房间，我从床上跳了起来，跑到了他身边。

‘Don’t be afraid now,’ said he, grinning again, ‘Queequeg here wouldn’t harm a hair of your head.’
“现在别害怕，”他再次微笑着说道，“魁魁格不会伤害你一根头发。”

‘Stop your grinning,’ shouted I, ‘and why didn’t you tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?’
“别再笑了，”我喊道，“你为什么不告诉我那个可恶的标枪手是个食人者？”

‘I thought ye know’d it;—didn’t I tell ye, he was a peddlin’ heads around town?—but turn flukes again and go to sleep. Queequeg, look here—you sabbee me, I sabbee—you this man sleepe you—you sabbee?’
“我以为你们知道这一点；——我不是告诉过你们吗，他是城里的一个小贩？——但又心存侥幸，去睡觉了。魁魁格，看这里——你萨比我，我萨比——你这个人睡你——你萨比？

‘Me sabbee plenty’—grunted Queequeg, puffing away at his pipe and sitting up in bed.
“我已经够了。”奎魁格咕哝道，吸着烟斗，从床上坐了起来。

‘You gettee in,’ he added, motioning to me with his tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side. He really did this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way. I stood looking at him a moment. For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking cannibal. What’s all this fuss I have been making about, thought I to myself—the man’s a human being just as I am: he has just as much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him. Better sleep with a sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.
“你进去吧，”他补充道，用战斧向我示意，然后把衣服扔到一边。他不仅以一种文明的方式，而且以一种非常善良和慈善的方式做到了这一点。我站着看了他一会儿。尽管身上有纹身，但总的来说，他是一个干净、相貌英俊的食人者。我一直在大惊小怪，我心里想——这个人和我一样都是人：他有理由害怕我，就像我有理由害怕他一样。与清醒的食人者共眠，胜过与醉酒的基督徒共眠。

‘Landlord,’ said I, ‘tell him to stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever you call it; tell him to stop smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him. But I don’t fancy having a man smoking in bed with me. It’s dangerous. Besides, I ain’t insured.’
“房东，”我说，“告诉他把他的战斧藏在那里，或者管子，或者无论你怎么称呼它；简而言之，告诉他停止吸烟，然后我会和他一起上床。但我不喜欢一个男人和我在床上抽烟。这很危险。此外，我没有保险。

This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely motioned me to get into bed—rolling over to one side as much as to say—I won’t touch a leg of ye.’
当我把这件事告诉奎魁格时，他立刻答应了，并再次礼貌地示意我上床——翻身到一边，仿佛在说——我不会碰你们的一条腿。

‘Good night, landlord,’ said I, ‘you may go.’
“晚安，房东，”我说，“你可以走了。”

I turned in, and never slept better in my life.
我上床睡觉，一生中从未睡得这么好过。

Chapter 4
第4章

The Counterpane.
柜台板。

Upon waking next morning about daylight, I found Queequeg’s arm thrown over me in the most loving and affectionate manner. You had almost thought I had been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full of odd little parti-coloured squares and triangles; and this arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a figure, no two parts of which were of one precise shade—owing I suppose to his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times—this same arm of his, I say, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt. Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.
第二天早上天亮的时候我醒来，发现魁魁格的手臂以最充满爱意和深情的方式搭在我身上。你几乎以为我是他的妻子。床罩是拼凑而成的，充满了奇怪的杂色小正方形和三角形。他的手臂上纹身满了克里特岛的一个无止尽的迷宫般的人物，其中没有两个部分是同一种颜色——我猜想是因为他在阳光和阴影下不规律地把他的手臂放在海上，他的衬衫袖子不规则地卷起来在不同的时间——我说，他的同一条手臂看上去就像是一条拼凑而成的被子。事实上，当我第一次醒来时，手臂部分地躺在上面，我几乎无法从被子中分辨出来，它们的颜色如此混合在一起；只有通过重量和压力的感觉，我才能看出魁魁格正在拥抱我。

My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When I was a child, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me; whether it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle. The circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or other—I think it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a little sweep do a few days previous; and my stepmother who, somehow or other, was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,—my mother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off to bed, though it was only two o’clock in the afternoon of the 21st June, the longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. But there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time, and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.
我的感觉很奇怪。让我尝试解释一下它们。当我还是个孩子的时候，我清楚地记得发生在我身上的类似的情况。无论是现实还是梦境，我始终无法完全安定下来。情况是这样的。我一直在砍一些刺山柑或其他东西——我想它正试图爬上烟囱，就像我前几天看到一个小扫帚所做的那样；还有我的继母，不知何故，一直在鞭打我，或者让我不吃晚饭就上床睡觉——我的母亲拽着我的腿从烟囱里把我拖到床上，尽管现在才两点钟6月21日下午，我们半球一年中白天最长的一天。我感觉很可怕。但没有办法，我只好上楼，来到三楼的小房间，尽可能慢地脱掉衣服，消磨时间，苦涩地叹了口气，钻进了被单。

I lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse before I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! the small of my back ached to think of it. And it was so light too; the sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house. I felt worse and worse—at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my stockinged feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at her feet, beseeching her as a particular favour to give me a good slippering for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning me to lie abed such an unendurable length of time. But she was the best and most conscientious of stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room. For several hours I lay there broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I have ever done since, even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes. At last I must have fallen into a troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly waking from it—half steeped in dreams—I opened my eyes, and the before sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer darkness. Instantly I felt a shock running through all my frame; nothing was to be seen, and nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in mine. My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless, unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed closely seated by my bed-side. For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there, frozen with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand; yet ever thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid spell would be broken. I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding attempts to explain the mystery. Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle myself with it.
我躺在那里，忧郁地计算着，必须经过整整十六个小时才能盼到复活。躺在床上十六个小时！想到这我的腰就酸痛。而且它也很轻；阳光从窗户照进来，街道上马车发出巨大的嘎嘎声，整个房子里充满了欢乐的声音。我的感觉越来越糟——最后我站起来，穿好衣服，穿着袜子轻轻地走下去，找到我的继母，突然扑倒在她的脚边，恳求她帮我一个忙，给我穿上一双好拖鞋。行为不当；确实，除了谴责我躺在床上如此难以忍受的时间之外，什么也没有。但她是最好、最尽职的继母，回来后我必须回自己的房间。我躺在那儿好几个小时，完全醒着，感觉比此后任何时候都糟糕得多，即使是后来发生的最大的不幸也是如此。最后我一定是陷入了一场打瞌睡的噩梦中。我慢慢地从梦中醒来，睁开了眼睛，之前阳光明媚的房间现在被外面的黑暗所包裹。刹那间，我全身感到一阵震惊；什么也看不见，什么也听不到。但似乎有一只超自然的手放在了我的手上。我的手臂垂在床罩上，那只手所属的无名的、难以想象的、沉默的形体或幻影似乎就紧紧地坐在我的床边。我躺在那儿，被最可怕的恐惧冻僵了，仿佛岁月堆积起来，不敢抽开我的手。但我曾想过，只要我能将它搅动一英寸，这个可怕的咒语就会被打破。 我不知道这种意识最后是如何从我身边消失的。但早上醒来时，我颤抖地记起了这一切，此后的几天、几周、几个月，我迷失在试图解释这个谜团的令人困惑的尝试中。不仅如此，直到现在我还经常为此困惑。

Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to those which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg’s pagan arm thrown round me. But at length all the past night’s events soberly recurred, one by one, in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to the comical predicament. For though I tried to move his arm—unlock his bridegroom clasp—yet, sleeping as he was, he still hugged me tightly, as though naught but death should part us twain. I now strove to rouse him—‘Queequeg!’—but his only answer was a snore. I then rolled over, my neck feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a slight scratch. Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk sleeping by the savage’s side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby. A pretty pickle, truly, thought I; abed here in a strange house in the broad day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk! ‘Queequeg!—in the name of goodness, Queequeg, wake!’ At length, by dint of much wriggling, and loud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded in extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himself all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up in bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if he did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over him. Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings now, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, at last, his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow, and he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon the floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that, if it pleased me, he would dress first and then leave me to dress afterwards, leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg, under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, the truth is, these savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what you will; it is marvellous how essentially polite they are. I pay this particular compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so much civility and consideration, while I was guilty of great rudeness; staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette motions; for the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding. Nevertheless, a man like Queequeg you don’t see every day, he and his ways were well worth unusual regarding.
现在，除去可怕的恐惧，我感受到那只超自然的手的感觉与我醒来时看到奎魁格异教徒的手臂搂住我时的感觉非常相似，就其陌生而言。但最后，昨晚发生的所有事情都在固定的现实中一一清醒地重现，然后我只活在滑稽的困境中。因为尽管我试图移动他的手臂——解开他的新郎扣——然而，尽管他睡着了，他仍然紧紧地拥抱着我，仿佛只有死亡才能将我们分开。我现在努力叫醒他——“魁魁格！”——但他唯一的回答是鼾声。然后我翻了个身，脖子感觉好像套在马项圈里；突然感觉有轻微的刮伤。掀开床单，战斧就睡在野人身边，就像一个斧头脸的婴儿。我想，确实是一道漂亮的泡菜；大白天的，住在一所陌生的房子里，还有一个食人者和一把战斧！ “魁魁格！——看在上帝的份上，魁魁格，醒醒吧！”最后，凭借大量的蠕动和大声不断的劝告，他以那种婚姻的方式拥抱一个男性同伴是不恰当的，我成功地提取了一个咕噜声；不久，他缩回手臂，像刚从水里出来的纽芬兰狗一样摇了摇自己，然后从床上坐起来，僵硬得像一根长矛杆，看着我，揉着眼睛，好像他完全不记得了我是如何来到这里的，尽管他似乎慢慢地意识到自己对我有所了解。与此同时，我静静地躺着，看着他，现在没有什么严重的疑虑，一心想仔细观察这个如此好奇的生物。 最后，他似乎下定决心要了解同床者的性格，并且可以说，他接受了这一事实。他跳到地板上，通过某些手势和声音让我明白，如果我愿意，他会先穿好衣服，然后让我穿好衣服，把整个公寓留给我自己。我认为，魁魁格，在这种情况下，这是一个非常文明的提议；但事实是，无论你怎么说，这些野蛮人都有一种与生俱来的精致感。令人惊奇的是，他们本质上是多么有礼貌。我对魁魁格表示特别的赞扬，因为他对我非常有礼貌和体贴，而我却犯了非常粗鲁的罪行。在床上盯着他，观察他所有的梳妆打扮动作；有一段时间，我的好奇心战胜了我的教养。尽管如此，像奎奎格这样的人你并不每天都能见到，但他和他的方式非常值得关注。

He commenced dressing at top by donning his beaver hat, a very tall one, by the by, and then—still minus his trowsers—he hunted up his boots. What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot tell, but his next movement was to crush himself—boots in hand, and hat on—under the bed; when, from sundry violent gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was hard at work booting himself; though by no law of propriety that I ever heard of, is any man required to be private when putting on his boots. But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature in the transition stage—neither caterpillar nor butterfly. He was just enough civilized to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manners. His education was not yet completed. He was an undergraduate. If he had not been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have troubled himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a savage, he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on. At last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not being much accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide ones—probably not made to order either—rather pinched and tormented him at the first go off of a bitter cold morning.
他开始穿上衣，戴上他的海狸帽，顺便说一句，一顶很高的帽子，然后——仍然没有穿裤子——他找到了他的靴子。我不知道他这么做到底是为了什么，但他的下一个动作就是把自己压在床底下——手里拿着靴子，戴着帽子；当我从各种剧烈的喘息和紧张中推断出他正在努力地踢自己时；尽管据我所知，没有任何礼法规定任何人在穿靴子时必须保持隐私。但魁魁格，你看吗，是一种处于过渡阶段的生物——既不是毛毛虫，也不是蝴蝶。他足够文明，以最奇怪的方式炫耀他的古怪。他的学业尚未完成。他是一名本科生。如果他没有多少文明程度，他很可能根本不会为靴子而烦恼。但如果他不是一个野蛮人，他绝不会梦想到床底下穿上它们。最后，他出现了，帽子严重凹陷，压在眼睛上，开始吱吱作响，一瘸一拐地在房间里走来走去，好像不太习惯靴子，他那双潮湿、皱巴巴的牛皮靴子——可能不适合穿靴子。要么命令——要么在寒冷的早晨第一次出发时掐他、折磨他。

Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window, and that the street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain view into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on; I begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat, and particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible. He complied, and then proceeded to wash himself. At that time in the morning any Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to my amazement, contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his chest, arms, and hands. He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a piece of hard soap on the wash-stand centre table, dipped it into water and commenced lathering his face. I was watching to see where he kept his razor, when lo and behold, he takes the harpoon from the bed corner, slips out the long wooden stock, unsheathes the head, whets it a little on his boot, and striding up to the bit of mirror against the wall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rather harpooning of his cheeks. Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers’s best cutlery with a vengeance. Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.
现在，窗户上没有窗帘，街道也很窄，从对面的房子可以清楚地看到房间里的景色，并且越来越多地观察奎奎格做出的不雅的身影，除了除了其他东西之外，几乎没有别的东西走来走去。他戴上帽子和靴子；我尽力恳求他，稍微加快他如厕的速度，特别是尽快穿上他的裤子。他答应了，然后开始洗澡。早上那个时候，任何基督徒都会洗脸。但令我惊讶的是，魁魁格只满足于将洗礼限制在胸部、手臂和手上。然后他穿上马甲，在盥洗台中央的桌子上拿起一块硬肥皂，将其浸入水中，开始在脸上涂抹泡沫。我正看着他把剃刀放在哪里，你瞧，他从床角拿出鱼叉，滑出长木柄，拔出刀头，在靴子上磨了一下，然后大步走到了刀口前。他把镜子靠在墙上，开始用力刮擦，或者更确切地说，用鱼叉刮擦他的脸颊。我认为，奎魁格，这是在报复性地使用罗杰斯最好的餐具。后来，当我了解到鱼叉的头部是用什么精钢制成的，以及长直的边缘总是保持着多么锋利时，我对这种操作不再感到好奇。

The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of the room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon like a marshal’s baton.
剩下的厕所很快就完成了，他自豪地走出房间，裹着他那件巨大的飞行员猴夹克，像元帅的指挥棒一样挥舞着他的鱼叉。

Chapter 5
第5章

Breakfast.
早餐。

I quickly followed suit, and descending into the bar-room accosted the grinning landlord very pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him, though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my bedfellow.
我也赶紧效仿，走进酒吧间，非常愉快地和笑容可掬的房东搭话。我对他并无恶意，尽管他在我同床的问题上跟我开玩笑不少。

However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rather too scarce a good thing; the more’s the pity. So, if any one man, in his own proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in that way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him, be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.
然而，开怀大笑是一件非常好的事情，而且是一件非常稀有的事情。越多越可惜。因此，如果任何一个人，以他自己的身份，为任何人提供一个好笑话的东西，让他不要落后，而让他愉快地允许自己以这种方式消费和消费。如果一个人身上有很多可笑的地方，那么他身上肯定有比你想象的更多的东西。

The bar-room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the night previous, and whom I had not as yet had a good look at. They were nearly all whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and brawny company, with bosky beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morning gowns.
酒吧里现在挤满了前一天晚上来的寄宿生，而我还没有仔细看过他们。他们几乎都是捕鲸者。大副、二副、三副、海上木匠、海上制桶匠、海上铁匠、标枪手和船舶管理员；一群棕色皮肤的壮汉，留着浓密的胡须；一群没有剪短头发、毛茸茸的人，都穿着猴子夹克作为晨礼服。

You could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore. This young fellow’s healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted pear in hue, and would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been three days landed from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shades lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In the complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached withal; HE doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore. But who could show a cheek like Queequeg? which, barred with various tints, seemed like the Andes’ western slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates, zone by zone.
你可以很清楚地看出每个人在岸上待了多长时间。这个年轻人健康的脸颊颜色像太阳烤过的梨子一样，闻起来几乎有麝香的味道。他不可能在印度航行三天后才登陆。旁边的那个男人看上去肤色浅了一些。你可能会说他身上有一丝丝缎木的味道。第三个人的肤色仍然残留着热带黄褐色，但稍显苍白。毫无疑问，他已经在岸上待了整整几个星期了。但谁能像奎奎格那样露出脸颊呢？除了各种色彩之外，它看起来就像安第斯山脉的西坡，以一系列的方式展现出来，逐个区域形成鲜明对比的气候。

‘Grub, ho!’ now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went to breakfast.
“咕噜，嗬！”房东大声喊道，猛地打开一扇门，我们就进去吃早餐了。

They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at ease in manner, quite self-possessed in company. Not always, though: Ledyard, the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of all men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor. But perhaps the mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or the taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart of Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo’s performances—this kind of travel, I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social polish. Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had anywhere.
人们说，见过世面的人，举止就会变得很从容，与人相处就会变得很镇定。但情况并非总是如此：伟大的新英格兰旅行家莱德亚德（Ledyard）和苏格兰人蒙戈帕克（Mungo Park）；在所有男人中，他们在客厅里最缺乏自信。但也许只是像莱德亚德那样乘坐狗拉的雪橇穿越西伯利亚，或者在非洲的黑人中心空着肚子独自长时间行走，这就是可怜的蒙戈表演的总和——这种旅行，我想说，这可能不是获得高社交优雅的最佳方式。不过，在大多数情况下，这种事情随处可见。

These reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that after we were all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some good stories about whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every man maintained a profound silence. And not only that, but they looked embarrassed. Yes, here were a set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the slightest bashfulness had boarded great whales on the high seas—entire strangers to them—and duelled them dead without winking; and yet, here they sat at a social breakfast table—all of the same calling, all of kindred tastes—looking round as sheepishly at each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the Green Mountains. A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid warrior whalemen!
这里的这些思考是由于我们都坐在餐桌旁后，我正准备听一些关于捕鲸的好故事而引起的。令我惊讶的是，几乎每个人都保持着深深的沉默。不仅如此，他们还显得很尴尬。是的，这里有一群水手，其中许多人毫不羞涩地登上了公海上的大鲸鱼——它们对它们来说完全陌生——并且毫不眨眼地与它们决斗。然而，他们却坐在一张社交早餐桌旁——有着同样的使命，有着相似的品味——羞涩地环视彼此，仿佛他们从未离开过绿山中的某个羊圈。令人好奇的景象；这些害羞的熊，这些胆小的鲸鱼战士！

But as for Queequeg—why, Queequeg sat there among them—at the head of the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle. To be sure I cannot say much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could not have cordially justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, and using it there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him. But THAT was certainly very coolly done by him, and every one knows that in most people’s estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it genteelly.
至于魁魁格——为什么，魁魁格就坐在他们中间——碰巧也坐在了桌子的首位。像冰柱一样凉爽。可以肯定的是，我对他的教养不能说太多。他最伟大的崇拜者不可能诚恳地为他带鱼叉去吃早餐并毫无仪式地使用它辩护。他把手伸过桌子，把牛排抓向他，许多人的头都面临着迫在眉睫的危险。但他确实做得非常冷静，而且每个人都知道，在大多数人看来，冷静地做任何事情就是优雅地做事。

We will not speak of all Queequeg’s peculiarities here; how he eschewed coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to beefsteaks, done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I sallied out for a stroll.
我们不会在这里谈论魁魁格的所有特点；他如何避开咖啡和热面包卷，全心全意地吃牛排，而且做得很少见。够了，当早餐结束后，他像其他人一样退到公共房间，点燃他的战斧烟斗，坐在那儿安静地消化，戴着他密不可分的帽子抽烟，当我出去散步时。

Chapter 6
第6章

The Street.
街道。

If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.
如果说我一开始看到奎魁格这样一个古怪的人在文明城镇的上流社会中活动时感到惊讶的话，那么当我第一次在白天漫步在新贝德福德的街道上时，这种惊讶很快就消失了。

In thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign parts. Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Street is not unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live Yankees have often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats all Water Street and Wapping. In these last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors; but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street corners; savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy flesh. It makes a stranger stare.
在码头附近的道路上，任何一个重要的海港都会经常看到来自外国的、看起来最奇怪的、不起眼的东西。即使在百老汇街和栗子街，地中海水手有时也会推挤受惊的女士们。摄政街对于拉斯卡人和马来人来说并不陌生；在孟买的阿波罗绿地，现场的北方佬经常让当地人感到害怕。但新贝德福德击败了所有水街和沃平。在最后提到的这些出没的地方，你只能看到水手。但在新贝德福德，真正的食人者站在街角聊天；彻头彻尾的野蛮人；他们中的许多人的骨头上仍然带着邪恶的肉体。它让陌生人凝视。

But, besides the Feegeeans, Tongatobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians, and Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft which unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still more curious, certainly more comical. There weekly arrive in this town scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery. They are mostly young, of stalwart frames; fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe and snatch the whale-lance. Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence they came. In some things you would think them but a few hours old. Look there! that chap strutting round the corner. He wears a beaver hat and swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife. Here comes another with a sou’-wester and a bombazine cloak.
但是，除了费吉人、汤加托布阿尔人、埃罗芒戈人、潘南吉人、布里吉人，以及街道上无人注意的野生捕鲸船标本之外，你还会看到其他更奇特、更滑稽的景象。每周都会有数十名年轻的佛蒙特州和新罕布什尔州男子来到这个小镇，他们都渴望在渔业中获得利益和荣耀。他们大多年轻，体格健壮；这些人砍伐了森林，现在却想放下斧子，抢夺鲸鱼矛。许多都像它们来自的绿山一样绿色。有些事情你可能会认为它们只是几个小时前的事情。看这里！那个在拐角处大摇大摆的家伙。他戴着海狸帽，穿着燕尾外套，腰间系着水手腰带，手持鞘刀。又来了一位穿着南西部风格和棉纱斗篷的人。

No town-bred dandy will compare with a country-bred one—I mean a downright bumpkin dandy—a fellow that, in the dog-days, will mow his two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when a country dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguished reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see the comical things he does upon reaching the seaport. In bespeaking his sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps to his canvas trowsers. Ah, poor Hay-Seed! how bitterly will burst those straps in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and all, down the throat of the tempest.
没有哪个城镇出身的花花公子能与乡村出身的花花公子相比——我指的是彻头彻尾的乡巴佬花花公子——在三伏天，他会戴着鹿皮手套割草两英亩土地，生怕把手晒黑。现在，当像这样的乡村花花公子一心想赢得显赫的声誉，并加入伟大的捕鲸业时，你应该看到他到达海港时所做的滑稽的事情。在定制他的航海装时，他在背心上加上了铃扣。帆布长裤上的带子。啊，可怜的干草种子！当你的带子、纽扣和所有东西都被驱赶到暴风雨的喉咙里时，在第一场呼啸的大风中，这些带子会多么痛苦地破裂。

But think not that this famous town has only harpooneers, cannibals, and bumpkins to show her visitors. Not at all. Still New Bedford is a queer place. Had it not been for us whalemen, that tract of land would this day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the coast of Labrador. As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten one, they look so bony. The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live in, in all New England. It is a land of oil, true enough: but not like Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine. The streets do not run with milk; nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs. Yet, in spite of this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like houses; parks and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford. Whence came they? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?
但不要以为这座著名的小镇只有标枪手、食人者和土包子向游客展示。一点也不。新贝德福德仍然是一个奇怪的地方。如果没有我们捕鲸人，那片土地今天可能会像拉布拉多海岸一样处于嚎叫的状态。事实上，她的偏远地区的一些地方足以让人感到恐惧，它们看起来如此瘦骨嶙峋。这个小镇本身也许是整个新英格兰最适宜居住的地方。这是一片石油之地，这是事实：但不像迦南；这片土地也盛产玉米和葡萄酒。街道上不流牛奶；在春天，他们也不用新鲜鸡蛋铺在上面。然而，尽管如此，在整个美国，你找不到比这更多的贵族风格的房子了。公园和花园比新贝德福德更加华丽。他们从哪里来？一个国家是如何在这曾经崎岖不平的矿渣上种植的？

Go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty mansion, and your question will be answered. Yes; all these brave houses and flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans. One and all, they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the bottom of the sea. Can Herr Alexander perform a feat like that?
去看看那座高大宅邸周围的象征性铁鱼叉吧，你的问题就会得到解答。是的;所有这些勇敢的房屋和鲜花盛开的花园都来自大西洋、太平洋和印度洋。总而言之，他们是被鱼叉从海底拖上来的。亚历山大先生能做出这样的壮举吗？

In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to their daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece. You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say, they have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly burn their lengths in spermaceti candles.
他们说，在新贝德福德，父亲们会把鲸鱼送给女儿作为嫁妆，并给侄女每人分配几条海豚。想要看一场精彩的婚礼，你一定要去新贝德福德；他们说，因为每个房子里都有油库，每天晚上都会不顾一切地用鲸蜡蜡烛燃烧它们的长度。

In summer time, the town is sweet to see; full of fine maples—long avenues of green and gold. And in August, high in air, the beautiful and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is art; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced bright terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at creation’s final day.
夏季，小镇景色宜人；长满了精美的枫树——绿色和金色的长长的大道。八月，高空中，美丽而丰富的七叶树，像烛台一样，向路人展示着聚集的锥形直立圆锥花序。艺术是如此无所不能；在新贝德福德的许多地区，在创造的最后一天扔掉的贫瘠垃圾岩石上，出现了明亮的鲜花梯田。

And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses. But roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeks is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off shore, as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of the Puritanic sands.
新贝德福德的妇女们，她们就像她们自己的红玫瑰一样绽放。但玫瑰只在夏天开花；而他们脸颊上的精美康乃馨却像七重天上的阳光一样常年不衰。在其他地方，你无法与他们的花朵相媲美，除了在塞勒姆，他们告诉我，在那里，年轻的女孩呼吸着这样的麝香，她们的水手情人在离海岸数英里的地方就能闻到它们的味道，仿佛她们正在靠近气味芬芳的摩鹿加群岛，而不是清教徒的沙滩。

Chapter 7
第7章

The Chapel.
教堂。

In this same New Bedford there stands a Whaleman’s Chapel, and few are the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, who fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot. I am sure that I did not.
在同一个新贝德福德，有一座捕鲸人教堂，那些即将前往印度洋或太平洋的喜怒无常的渔民很少会在周日参观该地点。我确信我没有。

Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon this special errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving sleet and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering, I found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors’ wives and widows. A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks of the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable. The chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders, masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit. Three of them ran something like the following, but I do not pretend to quote:—
第一次早上散步回来后，我再次出发执行这项特殊的任务。天空从晴朗、晴朗、寒冷，变成了雨夹雪和薄雾。我把自己裹在毛茸茸的熊皮夹克里，奋力抵抗顽强的风暴。进去后，我发现一小群分散的水手、水手的妻子和寡妇。周围一片沉闷的寂静，只偶尔被暴风雨的尖叫声打破。每个沉默的崇拜者似乎都故意彼此分开坐着，仿佛每个沉默的悲伤都是孤立的、无法交流的。牧师还没有到来。这些沉默的男人和女人静静地坐在那里，注视着几块镶在讲坛两侧墙上的带有黑色边框的大理石石板。其中三个人发表了类似以下的话，但我不想假装引用：-

SACRED
神圣

TO THE MEMORY
到记忆中

OF
JOHN TALBOT,
约翰·塔尔伯特，

Who, at the age of eighteen, was lost overboard,
十八岁时，他落水，

Near the Isle of Desolation, off Patagonia,
荒凉岛附近，巴塔哥尼亚附近，

November 1st, 1836.
1836 年 11 月 1 日。

THIS TABLET
这款平板电脑

Is erected to his Memory
为他的记忆而竖立

BY HIS
由他

SISTER.
姐姐。

SACRED
神圣

TO THE MEMORY
到记忆中

OF
ROBERT LONG, WILLIS ELLERY,
罗伯特·朗、威利斯·埃勒里、

NATHAN COLEMAN, WALTER CANNY, SETH MACY,
内森·科尔曼、沃尔特·坎尼、塞斯·梅西、

AND SAMUEL GLEIG,
还有塞缪尔·格雷格，

Forming one of the boats’ crews
组建一名船员

OF
THE SHIP ELIZA
伊丽莎号

Who were towed out of sight by a Whale,
他们被鲸鱼拖出了视线，

On the Off-shore Ground in the
在离岸地面上

PACIFIC,
太平洋，

December 31st, 1839.
1839 年 12 月 31 日。

THIS MARBLE
这块大理石

Is here placed by their surviving
是他们幸存的人安置在这里的

SHIPMATES.
船友们。

SACRED
神圣

TO THE MEMORY
到记忆中

OF
The late
已故

CAPTAIN EZEKIEL HARDY,
以西结·哈迪船长，

Who in the bows of his boat was killed by a
谁在他的船头被一个人杀死了

Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan,
日本海岸的抹香鲸，

AUGUST 3d, 1833.
1833 年 8 月 3 日。

THIS TABLET
这款平板电脑

Is erected to his Memory
为他的记忆而竖立

BY
HIS WIDOW.
他的遗孀。

Shaking off the sleet from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself near the door, and turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near me. Affected by the solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze of incredulous curiosity in his countenance. This savage was the only person present who seemed to notice my entrance; because he was the only one who could not read, and, therefore, was not reading those frigid inscriptions on the wall. Whether any of the relatives of the seamen whose names appeared there were now among the congregation, I knew not; but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the fishery, and so plainly did several women present wear the countenance if not the trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before me were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh.
我抖掉冰釉帽子和夹克上的雨夹雪，在靠近门的位置坐下，侧身转过身，惊讶地发现奎魁格就在我身边。被场面的庄严所影响，他的脸上露出了不可置信的好奇之色。这个野蛮人似乎是在场唯一注意到我进来的人。因为他是唯一一个不识字的人，因此他不会读墙上那些冰冷的铭文。我不知道名单上出现的海员的亲属现在是否在会众中。但渔业中未记录的事故如此之多，而且在场的几位妇女的表情如此明显，即使不是某种持续悲伤的外表，我确信，在我面前聚集的那些人，在她们难以治愈的心灵中看到了那些黯淡的药片令人同情地导致旧伤口重新流血。

Oh! ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among flowers can say—here, HERE lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation that broods in bosoms like these. What bitter blanks in those black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes! What despair in those immovable inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbidden infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a grave. As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
哦！你们这些死者埋在青草下；站在花丛中的人可以说：这里，这里躺着我的爱人；你们不知道这些人的内心深处蕴藏着怎样的悲凉。那些没有覆盖灰烬的黑边大理石是多么痛苦的空白啊！那些不可移动的铭文是多么绝望啊！线路中存在着多么致命的空虚和不请自来的不忠，似乎正在侵蚀所有的信仰，并拒绝让那些无处安息、没有坟墓的人复活。这些石碑也可能像矗立在这里一样，矗立在象岛洞穴里。

In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included; why it is that a universal proverb says of them, that they tell no tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it is that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefix so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the Life Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what eternal, unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies antique Adam who died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we still refuse to be comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are dwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all the dead; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a whole city. All these things are not without their meanings.
人类的死者包括在哪些生物普查中？为什么有一句普遍的谚语说他们不讲故事，尽管比古德温沙滩包含更多的秘密？为什么我们在昨天启程前往另一个世界的他的名字前面加上了一个如此重要和不信教的词，但如果他启程前往这个活生生的地球上最遥远的印度群岛，我们并没有因此赋予他这样的权利？为什么人寿保险公司要向不朽者支付死亡罚金；六十个世纪前去世的古老的亚当，正处于永恒的、不动的麻痹状态和致命的、绝望的恍惚状态中。为什么我们仍然拒绝接受那些我们仍然认为生活在难以言喻的幸福之中的人的安慰？为什么所有的生者都如此努力让所有的死者安静下来？因此，只要有敲墓的谣言，就会让全城都感到恐惧。所有这些事情并非没有意义。

But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from these dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.
但信仰，像豺狼一样，在坟墓中觅食，甚至从这些死气沉沉的怀疑中，她收集到了最重要的希望。

It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a Nantucket voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky light of that darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone before me. Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine. But somehow I grew merry again. Delightful inducements to embark, fine chance for promotion, it seems—aye, a stove boat will make me an immortal by brevet. Yes, there is death in this business of whaling—a speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity. But what then? Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of Life and Death. Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true substance. Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too much like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that thick water the thinnest of air. Methinks my body is but the lees of my better being. In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not me. And therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and stove body when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
几乎不用说，在楠塔基特岛航行前夕，我怀着什么样的心情看着那些大理石碑，在那个黑暗、悲伤的日子里，借着昏暗的光线，读到了在我之前离开的捕鲸人的命运。是的，以实玛利，你也可能有同样的命运。但不知怎的，我又高兴起来了。令人愉快的登船诱惑，绝佳的晋升机会，看来——是的，一艘炉船将使我名垂青史。是的，捕鲸业中存在着死亡——将一个人快速、混乱地捆绑到永恒之中。但那又怎样呢？我认为我们在生与死的问题上犯了巨大的错误。我认为他们在地球上所说的我的影子才是我的真实本质。我认为，在看待精神事物时，我们太像牡蛎透过水观察太阳，并认为浓稠的水是最稀薄的空气。我认为我的身体只不过是我更好的存在的残渣。事实上拿走我的身体谁愿意，拿走我说，那不是我。因此，为楠塔基特岛欢呼三声；当他们愿意的时候，炉船和炉体就会来，为了拯救我的灵魂，朱庇特本人却不能。

Chapter 8
第8章

The Pulpit.
讲坛。

I had not been seated very long ere a man of a certain venerable robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted door flew back upon admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all the congregation, sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the chaplain. Yes, it was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen, among whom he was a very great favourite. He had been a sailor and a harpooneer in his youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the ministry. At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter of a healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging into a second flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom—the spring verdure peeping forth even beneath February’s snow. No one having previously heard his history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without the utmost interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical peculiarities about him, imputable to that adventurous maritime life he had led. When he entered I observed that he carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come in his carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet, and his great pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had absorbed. However, hat and coat and overshoes were one by one removed, and hung up in a little space in an adjacent corner; when, arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached the pulpit.
我没坐多久，一位体格健壮的男子就走了进来。当那扇被暴风雨袭击的门在接纳他时立即飞回，所有会众都迅速用尊敬的目光打量着他，这足以证明这位善良的老人就是牧师。是的，他就是著名的马普尔神父，鲸鱼们都这样称呼他，他是鲸鱼们最喜爱的人。他年轻时曾是一名水手和标枪手，但多年来一直将自己的一生奉献给了这个部门。在我现在写下这篇文章的时候，梅普尔神父正处于健康晚年的严冬之中。那种老年似乎融入了第二次绽放的青春，因为在他所有的皱纹裂缝中，闪烁着新绽放的某种温和的光芒——即使在二月的雪下，春天的翠绿也能窥见一斑。以前听过他的历史的人，第一次见到马普尔神父时，都会产生极大的兴趣，因为他身上有一些根深蒂固的牧师特质，这归因于他所过的冒险的海上生活。当他进来时，我发现他没有带雨伞，当然也不是坐马车来的，因为他的防水布帽子被融化的雨夹雪压了下来，他那件巨大的飞行员布夹克似乎几乎被水的重量把他拖到地板上。它已经吸收了。然而，帽子、外套和套鞋都被一一脱掉，挂在邻近角落的一个小空间里；当他穿着一身得体的西装，悄悄地走近讲坛时。

Like most old fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a regular stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with the floor, seriously contract the already small area of the chapel, the architect, it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and finished the pulpit without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular side ladder, like those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wife of a whaling captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely headed, and stained with a mahogany colour, the whole contrivance, considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad taste. Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a look upwards, and then with a truly sailor-like but still reverential dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of his vessel.
像大多数老式讲坛一样，它是一个非常高的讲坛，由于普通的楼梯到这样的高度，由于与地板的长角度，会严重收缩教堂本来就很小的面积，建筑师似乎采取了行动在梅普尔神父的暗示下，他完成了没有楼梯的讲坛，取而代之的是垂直的侧梯，就像在海上从船上爬上船时使用的梯子一样。一位捕鲸船长的妻子为教堂提供了一对漂亮的红色精纺绳索，用于安装梯子，梯子本身头部很好，并涂有桃花心木色，考虑到它是一座什么样的教堂，整个设计，看起来一点也不低俗。马普尔神父在梯子脚下停了一会儿，双手抓住了人绳的装饰旋钮，向上看了一眼，然后以一种真正的水手般但仍然充满敬意的灵巧，一手接着一手，登上了梯子。台阶仿佛登上了他的船只的主顶部。

The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of wood, so that at every step there was a joint. At my first glimpse of the pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship, these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not prepared to see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn round, and stooping over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder step by step, till the whole was deposited within, leaving him impregnable in his little Quebec.
这个侧梯的垂直部分与通常的秋千梯一样，都是用布绳制成的，只有圆角是木头的，所以每一个台阶都有一个接头。当我第一眼看到讲坛时，我就意识到，无论对于一艘船来说多么方便，这些接头在目前的情况下似乎是不必要的。因为我不准备看到梅普尔神父升到高处后，慢慢转过身来，弯腰站在讲坛上，故意一步步拖上梯子，直到全部都沉入其中，让他在他的小魁北克中坚不可摧。

I pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this. Father Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity, that I could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks of the stage. No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this thing; furthermore, it must symbolize something unseen. Can it be, then, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly ties and connexions? Yes, for replenished with the meat and wine of the word, to the faithful man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a self-containing stronghold—a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well of water within the walls.
我想了一会儿，也没有完全明白其中的原因。梅普尔神父因真诚和圣洁而享有盛誉，我无法怀疑他仅靠舞台上的任何伎俩而臭名昭著。不，我想，这件事一定有某种清醒的理由；此外，它必须象征着某种看不见的东西。那么，通过这种身体上的孤立行为，他是否可以表示他暂时在精神上脱离一切外在世俗的联系和联系呢？是的，对于上帝忠实的人来说，这个讲坛充满了圣言的肉和酒，是一个自给自足的堡垒——一座高耸的埃伦布赖特斯坦，墙内有一口常年有水的井。

But the side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place, borrowed from the chaplain’s former sea-farings. Between the marble cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which formed its back was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship beating against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy breakers. But high above the flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there floated a little isle of sunlight, from which beamed forth an angel’s face; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the ship’s tossed deck, something like that silver plate now inserted into the Victory’s plank where Nelson fell. ‘Ah, noble ship,’ the angel seemed to say, ‘beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and bear a hardy helm; for lo! the sun is breaking through; the clouds are rolling off—serenest azure is at hand.’
但侧梯并不是这个地方唯一奇怪的特征，它是从牧师以前的航海经历中借来的。在讲坛两侧的大理石纪念碑之间，构成其背面的墙壁上装饰着一幅巨画，描绘了一艘英勇的船只在黑色岩石和白雪碎浪的背风海岸上抵抗可怕的风暴。但在飞来飞去的飞毛腿和翻滚的乌云之上，漂浮着一座阳光小岛，天使的脸庞从岛上射出。这张明亮的脸在船颠簸的甲板上发出了明显的光斑，就像现在插在纳尔逊倒下的胜利号木板上的那块银板一样。 “啊，高贵的船，”天使似乎在说，“继续前进，继续前进，你高贵的船，带着坚固的舵；瞧！太阳正在破晓；云层正在滚落——宁静的蔚蓝就在眼前。”

Nor was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea-taste that had achieved the ladder and the picture. Its panelled front was in the likeness of a ship’s bluff bows, and the Holy Bible rested on a projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship’s fiddle-headed beak.
讲坛本身也带有一丝与梯子和图画相同的海洋味道。它的镶板正面酷似船头，《圣经》放置在一块突出的卷轴作品上，该卷轴作品模仿了船的小提琴嘴。

What could be more full of meaning?—for the pulpit is ever this earth’s foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit leads the world. From thence it is the storm of God’s quick wrath is first descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt. From thence it is the God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds. Yes, the world’s a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete; and the pulpit is its prow.
还有什么比这更有意义的呢？——因为讲坛永远是这个世界最重要的部分；其余的都在它的后面；讲坛引领世界。从那时起，我们首先描述了上帝快速愤怒的风暴，而弓必须最早首当其冲。从此，首先祈请风神，以求顺风。是的，世界是一艘正在出航的船，而不是一次完整的航程；讲坛就是它的船头。

Chapter 9
第9章

The Sermon.
讲道。

Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of unassuming authority ordered the scattered people to condense. ‘Starboard gangway, there! side away to larboard—larboard gangway to starboard! Midships! midships!’
梅普尔神父站了起来，用一种谦逊权威的温和声音命令分散的人们集合起来。 “右舷舷梯，那里！侧向左舷——左舷舷梯向右舷！船中部！船中部！’

There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the benches, and a still slighter shuffling of women’s shoes, and all was quiet again, and every eye on the preacher.
长凳间传来沉重的海靴低沉的隆隆声，还有女鞋的轻微拖曳声，一切又恢复了安静，所有人的目光都集中在传教士身上。

He paused a little; then kneeling in the pulpit’s bows, folded his large brown hands across his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, and offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at the bottom of the sea.
他停顿了一下；然后跪在讲坛的船头，将棕色的大手交叉放在胸前，抬起闭着的眼睛，虔诚地祈祷，就像跪在海底祈祷一样。

This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling of a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog—in such tones he commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towards the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy—
这一切以持久而庄严的音调结束，就像一艘在雾中沉没的船中不断鸣响的钟声一样——在这样的音调中，他开始朗诵下面的赞美诗；但在最后的诗节中他改变了态度，爆发出一种震耳欲聋的狂喜和喜悦——

‘The ribs and terrors in the whale,
“鲸鱼身上的肋骨和恐惧，

Arched over me a dismal gloom,
阴郁的阴郁笼罩着我，

While all God’s sun-lit waves rolled by,
当上帝所有阳光照耀的波浪滚滚而过时，

And lift me deepening down to doom.
并将我带入更深的厄运。

‘I saw the opening maw of hell,
“我看到地狱张开的胃，

With endless pains and sorrows there;
那里有无尽的痛苦和悲伤；

Which none but they that feel can tell—
除了有感觉的人之外，没有人能告诉我们——

Oh, I was plunging to despair.
唉，我已经陷入绝望了。

‘In black distress, I called my God,
“在黑暗的苦难中，我呼唤我的上帝，

When I could scarce believe him mine,
当我几乎不敢相信他是我的，

He bowed his ear to my complaints—
他侧耳倾听我的抱怨——

No more the whale did me confine.
我不再限制鲸鱼了。

‘With speed he flew to my relief,
“他飞得很快，让我松了口气，

As on a radiant dolphin borne;
如同一只光芒四射的海豚；

Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
可怕，却又明亮，就像闪电一样

The face of my Deliverer God.
我的拯救者上帝的脸。

‘My song for ever shall record
“我的歌将永远记录下来

That terrible, that joyful hour;
那个可怕的时刻，那个欢乐的时刻；

I give the glory to my God,
我将荣耀归给我的神，

His all the mercy and the power.
他所有的怜悯和力量。

Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the howling of the storm. A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned over the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon the proper page, said: ‘Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the first chapter of Jonah—‘And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.’’
几乎所有的人都一起唱起了这首赞美诗，它的声音高高地高过暴风雨的呼啸声。随后是短暂的停顿。传教士慢慢地翻动圣经的书页，最后，把手放在正确的页面上，说道：“亲爱的船员们，请抓住约拿书第一章的最后一节——”上帝准备了一条大鱼，吞掉约拿。”

‘Shipmates, this book, containing only four chapters—four yarns—is one of the smallest strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures. Yet what depths of the soul does Jonah’s deep sealine sound! what a pregnant lesson to us is this prophet! What a noble thing is that canticle in the fish’s belly! How billow-like and boisterously grand! We feel the floods surging over us; we sound with him to the kelpy bottom of the waters; sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is about us! But WHAT is this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches? Shipmates, it is a two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men, and a lesson to me as a pilot of the living God. As sinful men, it is a lesson to us all, because it is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness, suddenly awakened fears, the swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finally the deliverance and joy of Jonah. As with all sinners among men, the sin of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command of God—never mind now what that command was, or how conveyed—which he found a hard command. But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us to do—remember that—and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to persuade. And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in this disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.
“船员们，这本书只包含四章——四条线索——是圣经浩瀚电缆中最小的一根线之一。然而，约拿的深海之音听起来是何等深邃的灵魂啊！这位先知给我们带来了多么深刻的教训啊！鱼腹中的那首颂歌是多么高贵啊！多么波澜壮阔，多么热闹啊！我们感到洪水在我们身上汹涌澎湃；我们和他一起探寻水底的海藻；海藻和所有海里的粘液都在我们身边！但约拿书所教导的这个教训是什么？船员们，这是一个两条线的教训；对我们所有罪人来说是一个教训，对我作为永生神的飞行员来说也是一个教训。作为罪人，这对我们所有人来说都是一个教训，因为这是一个关于罪恶、冷酷无情、突然觉醒的恐惧、迅速的惩罚、悔改、祈祷，以及最后约拿的拯救和喜乐的故事。与人类中的所有罪人一样，阿米泰这个儿子的罪孽在于他故意违背上帝的命令——不管这个命令是什么，或者是如何传达的——他发现这是一个严厉的命令。但神要我们做的所有事情对我们来说都是困难的——记住这一点——因此，他常常命令我们，而不是努力说服我们。如果我们服从上帝，我们就必须违背自己；正是在这种不服从我们自己的情况下，服从上帝才变得如此艰难。

‘With this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at God, by seeking to flee from Him. He thinks that a ship made by men will carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains of this earth. He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship that’s bound for Tarshish. There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here. By all accounts Tarshish could have been no other city than the modern Cadiz. That’s the opinion of learned men. And where is Cadiz, shipmates? Cadiz is in Spain; as far by water, from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days, when the Atlantic was an almost unknown sea. Because Joppa, the modern Jaffa, shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the Mediterranean, the Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles to the westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar. See ye not then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God? Miserable man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas. So disordered, self-condemning is his look, that had there been policemen in those days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested ere he touched a deck. How plainly he’s a fugitive! no baggage, not a hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,—no friends accompany him to the wharf with their adieux. At last, after much dodging search, he finds the Tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment desist from hoisting in the goods, to mark the stranger’s evil eye. Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease and confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent. In their gamesome but still serious way, one whispers to the other—‘Jack, he’s robbed a widow;’ or, ‘Joe, do you mark him; he’s a bigamist;’ or, ‘Harry lad, I guess he’s the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of the missing murderers from Sodom.’ Another runs to read the bill that’s stuck against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and containing a description of his person. He reads, and looks from Jonah to the bill; while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah, prepared to lay their hands upon him. Frighted Jonah trembles, and summoning all his boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a coward. He will not confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong suspicion. So he makes the best of it; and when the sailors find him not to be the man that is advertised, they let him pass, and he descends into the cabin.
“由于约拿犯了不服从的罪，他进一步蔑视上帝，寻求逃离上帝。他认为一艘由人类制造的船将把他带到上帝不统治的国家，而只有地球上的统治者统治。他在约帕的码头附近潜行，寻找一艘开往他施的船。也许，这里潜藏着迄今为止未被注意到的意义。从各方面来看，他施除了现代的加的斯之外，不可能是其他城市。这是有学问的人的意见。船员们，加的斯在哪里？加的斯位于西班牙；从约帕出发，从水路走过去，是约拿在古代所能航行的最远距离，当时大西洋还是一片未知的海洋。因为约帕（Joppa），即现代的雅法（Jaffa），位于地中海最东岸的叙利亚海岸；还有他施（Tarshish）或加的斯（Cadiz），距此以西两千多​​英里，位于直布罗陀海峡外。船友们，你们没有看到约拿试图逃离上帝而逃往世界各地吗？可怜的人！哦！最可鄙、最值得蔑视的；带着低垂的帽子和愧疚的眼神，躲开他的上帝；像一个急于跨越海洋的卑鄙窃贼一样在船只中徘徊。他的表情如此混乱、自我谴责，如果当时有警察的话，乔纳仅仅因为怀疑有什么不对劲，就在他接触甲板之前被捕了。他显然是个逃犯！没有行李，没有帽盒、手提箱或地毯袋——没有朋友陪他到码头告别。最后，经过多次躲避搜索，他发现他施船正在接收最后一批货物。当他登上船，看到船长在船舱里时，所有的水手都暂时停止了搬运货物，以标记陌生人的邪恶目光。 约拿看到了这一点；但他试图表现得轻松自在、充满自信，但徒劳无功。他那可怜的笑容徒劳无功。这个人的强烈直觉让水手们确信他不可能是无辜的。一个人以一种游戏般但仍然严肃的方式对另一个人耳语——“杰克，他抢劫了一个寡妇；”或者，“乔，你标记他了吗？” “他是个重婚犯；”或者，“哈利小伙子，我猜他是在旧蛾摩拉越狱的通奸者，或者就像是所多玛失踪的凶手之一。”另一个跑去读贴在码头木桩上的钞票，船停泊在那里，悬赏五百金币以逮捕一名弑父者，并载有他的个人描述。他读着，目光从乔纳转向帐单。而所有同情他的船友现在都聚集在约拿周围，准备对他下手。乔纳吓得浑身发抖，脸上堆满了勇气，看上去更加胆小鬼了。他不会承认自己受到怀疑；但这本身就是强烈的怀疑。所以他充分利用了这一点；当水手们发现他不是广告上所说的那个人时，他们就让他过去了，他则下到船舱里。

‘‘Who’s there?’ cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making out his papers for the Customs—‘Who’s there?’ Oh! how that harmless question mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost turns to flee again. But he rallies. ‘I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon sail ye, sir?’ Thus far the busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah, though the man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear that hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance. ‘We sail with the next coming tide,’ at last he slowly answered, still intently eyeing him. ‘No sooner, sir?’—‘Soon enough for any honest man that goes a passenger.’ Ha! Jonah, that’s another stab. But he swiftly calls away the Captain from that scent. ‘I’ll sail with ye,’—he says,—‘the passage money how much is that?—I’ll pay now.’ For it is particularly written, shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history, ‘that he paid the fare thereof’ ere the craft did sail. And taken with the context, this is full of meaning.
“谁在那儿？”船长在繁忙的办公桌前喊道，他急忙拿出他的海关文件——“谁在那儿？”哦！这个无伤大雅的问题对约拿来说是多么的痛苦啊！一瞬间他几乎又转身逃跑了。但他集结起来。 “我想乘这艘船前往他施；到目前为止，忙碌的船长还没有抬头看约拿，尽管这个人现在就站在他面前。但他一听到那个空洞的声音，就猛地扫了一眼。 “我们会随着下一次即将到来的潮水而航行。”最后他慢慢地回答，仍然专注地看着他。 “不早了，先生？”——“对于任何一个诚实的乘客来说，已经足够快了。”哈！乔纳，这是另一次刺伤。但他很快就把船长从那股气味中吸引了出来。 “我要和你们一起航行，”——他说，——“船费是多少？——我现在就付钱。”因为这是特别写的，船友们，就好像这是一件不容忽视的事情。这段历史，“他在船启航之前就支付了票价”。结合上下文来看，这是充满意义的。

‘Now Jonah’s Captain, shipmates, was one whose discernment detects crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the penniless. In this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely, and without a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all frontiers. So Jonah’s Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah’s purse, ere he judge him openly. He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it’s assented to. Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold. Yet when Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the Captain. He rings every coin to find a counterfeit. Not a forger, any way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for his passage. ‘Point out my state-room, Sir,’ says Jonah now, ‘I’m travel-weary; I need sleep.’ ‘Thou lookest like it,’ says the Captain, ‘there’s thy room.’ Jonah enters, and would lock the door, but the lock contains no key. Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the Captain laughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors of convicts’ cells being never allowed to be locked within. All dressed and dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the little state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead. The air is close, and Jonah gasps. Then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship’s water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when the whale shall hold him in the smallest of his bowels’ wards.
‘现在，约拿的船长，船友们，是一位具有敏锐洞察力的船长，他能发现任何人的犯罪行为，但他的贪婪只会在身无分文的人身上揭露犯罪行为。在这个世界上，船友们，罪过可以自由旅行，不需要护照；而美德，如果是一个乞丐，就会在所有边境被阻止。因此，约拿的船长准备在公开审判约拿之前测试他的钱包有多长。他向他收取的费用是平时的三倍；并已同意。然后船长知道约拿是逃犯；但同时也决心帮助一支为后方铺上黄金的航班。然而，当乔纳公平地掏出钱包时，谨慎的怀疑仍然困扰着船长。他敲响每一枚硬币，寻找假币。无论如何，他不是伪造者，他嘀咕道；约拿在他的旅程中被放下。 “请指出我的特等舱，先生，”乔纳现在说道，“我厌倦了旅行； “你看起来很像，”船长说，“这是你的房间。”乔纳进来，想锁上门，但锁上没有钥匙。听到他在那里愚蠢地摸索，队长低声笑了起来，嘟囔着犯人牢房的门从来不许锁上。尽管乔纳衣冠楚楚，满身灰尘，他还是一头扎进自己的卧铺，发现小特等舱的天花板几乎抵在他的额头上。空气很近，乔纳喘息着。然后，在那个也沉入船吃水线以下的收缩洞里，乔纳感受到了那个令人窒息的时刻的预兆，鲸鱼将把他困在他最小的肠子里。

‘Screwed at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly oscillates in Jonah’s room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf with the weight of the last bales received, the lamp, flame and all, though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity with reference to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straight itself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels among which it hung. The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth his tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance. But that contradiction in the lamp more and more appals him. The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry. ‘Oh! so my conscience hangs in me!’ he groans, ‘straight upwards, so it burns; but the chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!’
“一盏摇晃的灯用螺丝固定在侧面，在约拿的房间里轻微摆动；船随着最后一批货物的重量向码头倾斜，灯、火焰和所有的东西虽然在轻微运动，但相对于房间仍然保持着永久的倾斜；事实上，它本身是绝对笔直的，但它却暴露了它所悬挂的虚假、谎言的水平。灯使约拿惊慌失措；当他躺在床上时，他饱受折磨的眼睛环顾四周，这位迄今为止成功的逃亡者在他不安的目光中找不到任何庇护所。但灯里的矛盾越来越让他感到震惊。地板、天花板、侧面，全都歪斜了。 '哦！所以我的良心悬在我身上！”他呻吟道，“笔直向上，所以它在燃烧；但我灵魂的各个房间都是弯曲的！

‘Like one who after a night of drunken revelry hies to his bed, still reeling, but with conscience yet pricking him, as the plungings of the Roman race-horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him; as one who in that miserable plight still turns and turns in giddy anguish, praying God for annihilation until the fit be passed; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals over him, as over the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, and there’s naught to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth, Jonah’s prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.
“就像一个人在醉酒狂欢一夜后倒在床上，仍然摇摇欲坠，但良心仍在刺痛他，就像罗马赛马的猛冲，但更多的是把他的钢标签撞到他身上；就像一个人在悲惨的困境中仍然在眩晕的痛苦中翻来覆去，祈求上帝毁灭，直到发作过去；最后，在痛苦的漩涡中，他感到一阵深深的昏迷，就像流血而死的人一样，因为良心是伤口，没有什么可以止住它。因此，在床上经过一番激烈的摔跤后，约拿的巨大痛苦把他拖入水中入睡。

‘And now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and from the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening, glides to sea. That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded smugglers! the contraband was Jonah. But the sea rebels; he will not bear the wicked burden. A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to break. But now when the boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; when boxes, bales, and jars are clattering overboard; when the wind is shrieking, and the men are yelling, and every plank thunders with trampling feet right over Jonah’s head; in all this raging tumult, Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep. He sees no black sky and raging sea, feels not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he the far rush of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving the seas after him. Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship—a berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep. But the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, ‘What meanest thou, O, sleeper! arise!’ Startled from his lethargy by that direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck, grasps a shroud, to look out upon the sea. But at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther billow leaping over the bulwarks. Wave after wave thus leaps into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs roaring fore and aft, till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet afloat. And ever, as the white moon shows her affrighted face from the steep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the rearing bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards the tormented deep.
‘现在涨潮的时候到了；船抛开了缆绳；开往他施的船毫无欢呼，从荒凉的码头出发，一路倾斜，滑向大海。我的朋友们，那艘船是第一艘有记录的走私船！违禁品是乔纳。但大海却反叛了；他不会承担邪恶的重担。可怕的暴风雨来了，船就要破裂了。但现在，当水手长召集全体人员来减轻她的重量时；当箱子、捆包和罐子从船上掉下来时；狂风呼啸，人们大喊大叫，每块木板都轰鸣作响，脚踩在约拿的头上；在这一切激烈的骚动中，约拿睡着了他那可怕的睡眠。他看不到黑色的天空和汹涌的大海，感觉不到摇晃的木材，也很少听到他或注意他那头巨大的鲸鱼远方的冲撞，即使现在，鲸鱼仍然张开嘴，在他身后劈开大海。是的，船友们，乔纳已经下到船的两侧——正如我所坐的那样，在船舱里的一个泊位，并且睡得很熟。但受惊的主人来到他身边，对着他死去的耳朵尖叫道：“你这是什么意思啊，沉睡的人！起来！” 乔纳被那可怕的呼喊从昏睡中惊醒，摇摇晃晃地站起来，跌跌撞撞地走到甲板上，抓起一块裹尸布，眺望大海。但就在那时，他被一只跃过舷墙的黑豹巨浪扑到。一波又一波的波浪就这样跳进船里，找不到快速的通风口，就在船头和船尾咆哮着，直到水手们在漂浮着的时候差点被淹死。当白色的月亮从头顶黑暗中陡峭的沟壑中露出她惊恐的脸时，乔纳惊愕地看到升起的船首斜桅高高指向上方，但很快又向下冲向痛苦的深渊。

‘Terrors upon terrors run shouting through his soul. In all his cringing attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly known. The sailors mark him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of him, and at last, fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to high Heaven, they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great tempest was upon them. The lot is Jonah’s; that discovered, then how furiously they mob him with their questions. ‘What is thine occupation? Whence comest thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now, my shipmates, the behavior of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and where from; whereas, they not only receive an answer to those questions, but likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is upon him.
“恐惧在他的灵魂中呼啸而过。在他所有的畏缩态度中，上帝逃亡者现在已经太明显了。水手们标记了他；他们对他的怀疑越来越确定，最后，为了充分检验真相，他们将整个事件提交给高天，进行抽签，看看这场大风暴是为谁而降临的。该地段是约拿的；这发现了，然后他们就用他们的问题疯狂地围攻他。 ‘你的职业是什么？你从哪里来？你的国家？什么人？但现在，我的船友们，请注意可怜的约拿的行为。热切的水手们纷纷询问他是谁，来自哪里；然而，他们不仅得到了这些问题的答案，而且同样得到了对他们没有提出的问题的另一个答案，但这个不请自来的答案是上帝强加在约拿身上的。

‘‘I am a Hebrew,’ he cries—and then—‘I fear the Lord the God of Heaven who hath made the sea and the dry land!’ Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, well mightest thou fear the Lord God THEN! Straightway, he now goes on to make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more appalled, but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his deserts,—when wretched Jonah cries out to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea, for he knew that for HIS sake this great tempest was upon them; they mercifully turn from him, and seek by other means to save the ship. But all in vain; the indignant gale howls louder; then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other they not unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.
“我是希伯来人，”他喊道——然后——“我敬畏创造海洋和陆地的天上之神耶和华！”敬畏他吧，乔纳？是的，那么你就可以敬畏主上帝了！现在，他立即做出了充分的坦白。于是，水手们越发惊骇，但依然可怜。因为当约拿还没有向上帝祈求怜悯时，因为他太了解他的沙漠的黑暗，当可怜的约拿向他们呼喊着把他带走并把他扔进海里时，因为他知道为了他的缘故，这他们遭遇了巨大的暴风雨。他们仁慈地离开了他，并寻求其他方法来拯救这艘船。但一切都是徒劳；狂风怒吼得更大；然后，他们一只手向上帝祈求，另一只手不情愿地抓住了约拿。

‘And now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea; when instantly an oily calmness floats out from the east, and the sea is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with him, leaving smooth water behind. He goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterless commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething into the yawning jaws awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory teeth, like so many white bolts, upon his prison. Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord out of the fish’s belly. But observe his prayer, and learn a weighty lesson. For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep and wail for direct deliverance. He feels that his dreadful punishment is just. He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting himself with this, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still look towards His holy temple. And here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance; not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment. And how pleasing to God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual deliverance of him from the sea and the whale. Shipmates, I do not place Jonah before you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a model for repentance. Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like Jonah.’
‘现在看哪，约拿被当作锚抛入海中；突然，一股油腻的平静从东方飘来，海面平静，约拿带着狂风，留下平静的水面。他陷入了如此无主的骚动之中，以至于他几乎没有注意到当他将沸腾的东西扔进等待他的张开的嘴里的那一刻；鲸鱼用他所有的象牙牙齿，像许多白色的闪电一样射向他的监狱。约拿就在鱼腹中向耶和华祷告。但请留意他的祈祷，并学习一个重要的教训。尽管约拿有罪，但他并没有为直接的拯救而哭泣和哀号。他觉得自己受到的可怕惩罚是公正的。他把所有的拯救都交给了上帝，他对此感到满意，尽管他经历了所有的痛苦和痛苦，他仍然会仰望他的圣殿。船友们，这就是真实而忠实的悔改；不是大声疾呼赦免，而是感谢惩罚。约拿的这种行为是多么蒙上帝喜悦，从他最终从大海和鲸鱼中被拯救就可见一斑。船员们，我并没有将约拿放在你们面前，让你们效法他的罪，但我确实将他放在你们面前，作为悔改的榜样。不要犯罪；但如果你这样做了，请像约拿一样小心悔改。

While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking, slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who, when describing Jonah’s sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself. His deep chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the warring elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his swarthy brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple hearers look on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.
当他说这些话的时候，外面尖叫、倾斜的暴风雨的呼啸声似乎给传道人增添了新的力量，他在描述约拿的海上风暴时，自己似乎也被暴风雨翻腾了。他深邃的胸膛随着地面的起伏而起伏。他举起的双臂似乎是正在工作的交战要素。雷声从他黝黑的额头上滚滚而下，光芒从他的眼中跃出，让他所有单纯的听众都用一种对他们来说很奇怪的恐惧很快地看着他。

There now came a lull in his look, as he silently turned over the leaves of the Book once more; and, at last, standing motionless, with closed eyes, for the moment, seemed communing with God and himself.
现在，他的神情平静下来，再次默默地翻动书页。最后，他一动不动地站着，闭着眼睛，暂时似乎在与上帝和他自己交谈。

But again he leaned over towards the people, and bowing his head lowly, with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility, he spake these words:
但他又向众人俯身，低下头，带着一种最深沉而又最具男子气概的谦逊，说出了这番话：

‘Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon you; both his hands press upon me. I have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson that Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye, and still more to me, for I am a greater sinner than ye. And now how gladly would I come down from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you sit, and listen as you listen, while some one of you reads ME that other and more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to ME, as a pilot of the living God. How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true things, and bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of a wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled from his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking ship at Joppa. But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached. As we have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him along ‘into the midst of the seas,’ where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand fathoms down, and ‘the weeds were wrapped about his head,’ and all the watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyond the reach of any plummet—‘out of the belly of hell’—when the whale grounded upon the ocean’s utmost bones, even then, God heard the engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto the fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air and earth; and ‘vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;’ when the word of the Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten—his ears, like two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean—Jonah did the Almighty’s bidding. And what was that, shipmates? To preach the Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was it!
“船员们，上帝只向你们伸出了一只手；他的双手按在我身上。我已经用我的昏暗之光向你们宣读了约拿向所有罪人所教导的教训；对你们如此，对我更是如此，因为我比你们罪孽更大。现在，我多么高兴从桅杆顶下来，坐在你们坐的舱口上，边听边听，而你们中的某个人则给我读乔纳教给我的另一更可怕的教训，作为一个永生神的飞行员。约拿是一位受膏的领航先知，或说真理的人，并被主吩咐在邪恶的尼尼微人耳中宣讲那些不受欢迎的真理，他对自己引起的敌意感到震惊，于是逃离了他的使命，并寻求在约帕乘船逃避他的责任和他的上帝。但神无处不在；他从未到达过他施。正如我们所看到的，上帝驾着鲸鱼降临到他身上，把他吞入了生命的厄运深渊，并迅速倾斜地将他撕裂到“海洋中央”，在那里，漩涡深处把他吸到了万英寻深处， “杂草缠住了他的头”，所有充满苦难的水世界都笼罩在他身上。然而，即使在任何坠落都无法触及的地方——“从地狱之腹”——当鲸鱼落在海洋最深处的骨头上时，上帝还是听到了被吞没的、悔改的先知哭泣的声音。然后上帝对鱼说话；鲸鱼从寒冷和黑暗的大海中升起，迎接温暖宜人的阳光，以及空气和大地的所有欢乐。当耶和华的话第二次临到时，“把约拿吐在旱地上”。约拿遍体鳞伤，被打得遍体鳞伤——他的耳朵就像两颗贝壳，仍在不断地发出大海的低语声——约拿执行了全能者的命令。 那是什么，船友们？面对谎言，宣扬真理！就是这样！

‘This, shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that pilot of the living God who slights it. Woe to him whom this world charms from Gospel duty! Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when God has brewed them into a gale! Woe to him who seeks to please rather than to appal! Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness! Woe to him who, in this world, courts not dishonour! Woe to him who would not be true, even though to be false were salvation! Yea, woe to him who, as the great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is himself a castaway!’
‘这，船友们，这是另一堂课；那位轻视它的永生神的领航员有祸了。因福音责任而被这个世界吸引的人有祸了！当上帝将水酿成大风时，那些试图将油倒在水面上的人有祸了！那些寻求取悦而不是震惊的人有祸了！对他来说，好名声比善良更重要的人有祸了！在这个世界上不求耻辱的人有祸了！那些不愿诚实的人有祸了，尽管虚假也能得到拯救！是的，他有祸了，正如伟大的飞行员保罗所言，在向他人传教时，他自己却是一个漂流者！

He dropped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his face to them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with a heavenly enthusiasm,—‘But oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand of every woe, there is a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, than the bottom of the woe is deep. Is not the main-truck higher than the kelson is low? Delight is to him—a far, far upward, and inward delight—who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever stands forth his own inexorable self. Delight is to him whose strong arms yet support him, when the ship of this base treacherous world has gone down beneath him. Delight is to him, who gives no quarter in the truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it out from under the robes of Senators and Judges. Delight,—top-gallant delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the Lord his God, and is only a patriot to heaven. Delight is to him, whom all the waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake from this sure Keel of the Ages. And eternal delight and deliciousness will be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final breath—O Father!—chiefly known to me by Thy rod—mortal or immortal, here I die. I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world’s, or mine own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out the lifetime of his God?’
他跌倒了，一时失去了自我。然后他再次抬起头来面对他们，眼中流露出深深的喜悦，带着天堂般的热情喊道：“但是哦！船友们！在每一个苦难的右舷，肯定有一个快乐；快乐的顶峰比痛苦的底部还深。是不是主力卡车比凯尔森低？对他来说，快乐是一种遥远、遥远、内在的快乐，他反对这个地球上傲慢的诸神和准将，始终坚持他自己不可阻挡的自我。当这个卑鄙、危险的世界的船在他脚下沉没时，他感到高兴的是，他有强有力的手臂支撑着他。他对真理毫不留情，并杀死、焚烧和摧毁所有的罪恶，尽管他把它从参议员和法官的长袍下拔出来，这对他来说是快乐的。快乐——对他来说，是最勇敢的快乐，因为他不承认任何法律或君主，只承认主他的上帝，并且只是天堂的爱国者。他很高兴，喧闹的暴民的大海巨浪永远无法从这个时代的可靠龙骨上动摇。永恒的喜悦和美味将属于他，谁来把他放下，可以用最后一口气说——天父啊！——我主要通过你的杖来认识——无论是凡人还是不朽，我死在这里。我一直努力成为你的，而不是成为这个世界的，或者我自己的。但这算不了什么：我把永恒留给你；人算什么，竟能活出上帝的一生？

He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction, covered his face with his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the people had departed, and he was left alone in the place.
他没有再说什么，只是慢慢地挥舞着祝福，双手捂着脸，就这么跪着，直到所有人都离开了，只剩下他一个人留在原地。

Chapter 10
第10章

A Bosom Friend.
知音。

Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the Chapel, I found Queequeg there quite alone; he having left the Chapel before the benediction some time. He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with his feet on the stove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his face that little negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a jack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in his heathenish way.
从教堂回到斯普特旅馆后，我发现奎奎格独自一人在那里。他在祝福前一段时间就离开了教堂。他坐在火前的长凳上，双脚放在炉灶上，一只手紧握着他的黑人小偶像；他仔细地凝视着它的脸，用折刀轻轻地削掉它的鼻子，同时用异教徒的方式自言自语。

But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and pretty soon, going to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his lap began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth page—as I fancied—stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment. He would then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number one each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was only by such a large number of fifties being found together, that his astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited.
但现在被打断了，他把图像放了出来；很快，他走到桌边，拿起一本大书，放在腿上，开始有规律地数页数。每读到五十页——正如我想象的那样——就停下来，茫然地环顾四周，并发出一声长长的、咯咯的、令人惊讶的口哨声。然后他会在下一个五十再次开始；似乎每次都是从第一页开始，好像他数不出超过五十页，只有当发现如此多的五十页在一起时，他才对如此之多的页数感到惊讶。

With much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, and hideously marred about the face—at least to my taste—his countenance yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable. You cannot hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes, fiery black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand devils. And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim. He looked like a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor. Whether it was, too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn out in freer and brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it otherwise would, this I will not venture to decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically an excellent one. It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General Washington’s head, as seen in the popular busts of him. It had the same long regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were likewise very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on top. Queequeg was George Washington cannibalistically developed.
我饶有兴趣地坐着看着他。尽管他很野蛮，脸上也有可怕的伤痕——至少对我来说是这样——但他的脸上却有一种绝不令人不快的东西。你无法隐藏灵魂。透过他那些超凡脱俗的纹身，我想我看到了一颗简单诚实的心的痕迹；他那双深邃的大眼睛，火红而大胆，似乎有一种敢于挑战一千个魔鬼的精神。除此之外，这个异教徒还有一种崇高的气质，即使他的粗鲁也不能完全损害这种气质。他看上去就像是一个从不畏缩、从未有过债主的人。是否他的头被剃光了，他的额头被拉长了，显得更加自由和明亮，看起来比其他情况更加广阔，这一点我不敢冒险决定；但可以肯定的是，从颅相学角度来看，他的头颅非常出色。这可能看起来很荒谬，但它让我想起了华盛顿将军的头像，正如在他流行的半身像中所看到的那样。从眉毛上方开始，它也有同样长的有规律的后退斜坡，同样非常突出，就像两个长长的海角，上面树木茂密。 Queequeg 是乔治·华盛顿以同类相食而开发的。

Whilst I was thus closely scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be looking out at the storm from the casement, he never heeded my presence, never troubled himself with so much as a single glance; but appeared wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous book. Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together the night previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm I had found thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this indifference of his very strange. But savages are strange beings; at times you do not know exactly how to take them. At first they are overawing; their calm self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom. I had noticed also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other seamen in the inn. He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances. All this struck me as mighty singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something almost sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from home, by the way of Cape Horn, that is—which was the only way he could get there—thrown among people as strange to him as though he were in the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed entirely at his ease; preserving the utmost serenity; content with his own companionship; always equal to himself. Surely this was a touch of fine philosophy; though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as that. But, perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be conscious of so living or so striving. So soon as I hear that such or such a man gives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic old woman, he must have ‘broken his digester.’
当我如此仔细地观察他时，半假装在窗外观看暴风雨，他却从未注意到我的存在，也从未费心多看一眼；但似乎全神贯注于数这本奇妙的书的页数。考虑到我们前一天晚上睡得多么融洽，特别是考虑到早上醒来时我发现他深情地搂着我，我觉得他的这种冷漠很奇怪。但野蛮人是奇怪的生物。有时您不知道如何正确服用它们。起初他们令人敬畏；他们的冷静、朴素似乎是苏格拉底式的智慧。我还注意到魁魁格从来不与客栈里的其他海员交往，或者说很少交往。他没有做出任何进展；似乎并不想扩大自己的熟人圈子。这一切都让我觉得非常奇特。然而，转念一想，其中却蕴含着某种近乎崇高的东西。这是一个离家约两万英里的人，取道合恩角——这是他到达那里的唯一途径——被抛在对他来说陌生的人群中，就像他在木星上一样。但他看上去完全放松自在。保持最大程度的平静；对自己的陪伴感到满意；永远等于自己。这无疑是一种精妙的哲学。尽管毫无疑问他从未听说过有这样的事。但是，也许，要成为真正的哲学家，我们凡人不应该意识到如此生活或如此奋斗。一旦我听说某个人为一位哲学家献身，我就得出结论，就像那个消化不良的老妇人一样，他一定“打破了他的消化器”。

As I sat there in that now lonely room; the fire burning low, in that mild stage when, after its first intensity has warmed the air, it then only glows to be looked at; the evening shades and phantoms gathering round the casements, and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain; the storm booming without in solemn swells; I began to be sensible of strange feelings. I felt a melting in me. No more my splintered heart and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish world. This soothing savage had redeemed it. There he sat, his very indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies and bland deceits. Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began to feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him. And those same things that would have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew me. I’ll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved but hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile. At first he little noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last night’s hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps a little complimented.
当我坐在那个现在孤独的房间里时；火焰燃烧得很慢，在那个温和的阶段，当它的第一强度温暖了空气之后，它就只发光以供观看；傍晚的阴影和幻影聚集在窗户周围，凝视着我们这对沉默而孤独的人。外面的暴风雨在庄严地汹涌澎湃；我开始感觉到奇怪的感觉。我感到自己的内心融化了。我破碎的心和疯狂的手不再对抗狼般的世界。这个令人安慰的野蛮人救赎了它。他坐在那里，他的冷漠表明了他的本性中不存在文明的虚伪和平淡的欺骗。他很狂野；值得一看的景点；但我开始感到自己被他神秘地吸引了。这些同样会让大多数人感到排斥的东西，却恰恰是吸引我的磁铁。我想，我会尝试一个异教徒朋友，因为事实证明基督徒的善良只是空洞的礼貌。我把长凳拉到他身边，做了一些友好的手势和暗示，同时尽力与他交谈。起初他几乎没有注意到这些进步。但不久，当我提到他昨晚的热情款待时，他就主动问我我们是否还能再同床共枕。我告诉他是的；我觉得他看起来很高兴，也许还有点恭维。

We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored to explain to him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few pictures that were in it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen in this famous town. Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff. And then we sat exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly passing between us.
然后我们一起翻了书，我尽力向他解释印刷的目的，以及里面几张图片的含义。这样我很快就引起了他的兴趣。从那时起，我们就开始尽可能地闲聊这座著名小镇的各种外部景观。很快我就提出了社交烟；他掏出袋子和战斧，悄悄地给我吸了一口。然后我们坐下来，用他那根野性的烟斗互相吸一口，并让烟斗定期在我们之间传递。

If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan’s breast, this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left us cronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as I to him; and when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against mine, clasped me round the waist, and said that henceforth we were married; meaning, in his country’s phrase, that we were bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if need should be. In a countryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have seemed far too premature, a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple savage those old rules would not apply.
如果异教徒心中还潜藏着对我冷漠的冰块，那么我们所拥有的这股令人愉快、和蔼可亲的烟雾，很快就把它融化了，让我们成为了密友。他似乎很自然地、不自觉地喜欢我，就像我喜欢他一样。当我们的烟结束后，他用额头抵住我的额头，搂住我的腰，说从此我们结婚了。用他的国家的话说，这意味着我们是知音；如果需要的话，他很乐意为我而死。对于一个乡下人来说，这种突然出现的友谊之火似乎还为时过早，是一件令人非常不信任的事情。但在这个简单的野蛮人身上，那些旧规则不再适用。

After supper, and another social chat and smoke, we went to our room together. He made me a present of his embalmed head; took out his enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the tobacco, drew out some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the table, and mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of them towards me, and said it was mine. I was going to remonstrate; but he silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers’ pockets. I let them stay. He then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed the paper fireboard. By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed anxious for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I deliberated a moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or otherwise.
晚饭后，又聊天又抽烟，我们一起回房间了。他送给我他那经过防腐处理的头颅作为礼物；他掏出巨大的烟草钱包，在烟草下面摸索着，取出了大约三十美元的银子。然后把它们摊在桌子上，机械地分成两等份，把其中一份推到我面前，说这是我的。我正要抗议；但他把它们倒进我裤袋里，让我闭嘴。我让他们留下来。然后他开始进行晚间祈祷，取出他的偶像，并移走纸质防火板。从某些迹象和症状来看，我认为他似乎很渴望我加入他。但我很清楚接下来会发生什么，所以我考虑了一会儿，如果他邀请我，我是否会遵守或不这样做。

I was a good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible Presbyterian Church. How then could I unite with this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood? But what is worship? thought I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven and earth—pagans and all included—can possibly be jealous of an insignificant bit of black wood? Impossible! But what is worship?—to do the will of God—THAT is worship. And what is the will of God?—to do to my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me—THAT is the will of God. Now, Queequeg is my fellow man. And what do I wish that this Queequeg would do to me? Why, unite with me in my particular Presbyterian form of worship. Consequently, I must then unite with him in his; ergo, I must turn idolator. So I kindled the shavings; helped prop up the innocent little idol; offered him burnt biscuit with Queequeg; salamed before him twice or thrice; kissed his nose; and that done, we undressed and went to bed, at peace with our own consciences and all the world. But we did not go to sleep without some little chat.
我是一个好基督徒；在绝对正确的长老会的怀抱中出生和长大。那么我怎么能和这个疯狂的偶像崇拜者联合起来崇拜他的那块木头呢？但什么是敬拜呢？我想。以实玛利，你现在认为宽宏大量的天地之神——包括异教徒和所有的人——可能会嫉妒一小块微不足道的黑木吗？不可能的！但什么是敬拜？——遵行神的旨意——这就是敬拜。神的旨意是什么？——我希望我的同胞对我做的事，对我的同胞做——这就是神的旨意。现在，奎奎格是我的同胞。我希望这个魁魁格对我做什么？为什么，以我独特的长老会崇拜形式与我联合起来。因此，我必须与他联合起来；因此，我必须成为偶像崇拜者。于是我点燃了刨花；帮助支撑起无辜的小偶像；给他一块烧焦的饼干和魁魁格。在他面前敬礼两三次；亲吻他的鼻子；完成后，我们脱掉衣服上床睡觉，对自己的良心和整个世界感到平静。但我们没有闲聊就睡觉了。

How it is I know not; but there is no place like a bed for confidential disclosures between friends. Man and wife, they say, there open the very bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning. Thus, then, in our hearts’ honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg—a cosy, loving pair.
我不知道这是怎么回事；但没有什么地方比床更适合朋友之间泄露秘密了。他们说，男人和妻子在那里向彼此敞开心扉；一些老夫妻常常躺着聊往事，直到凌晨。就这样，在我们心中的蜜月里，我和奎魁格——一对舒适、恩爱的情侣。

Chapter 11
第11章

Nightgown.
睡衣。

We had lain thus in bed, chatting and napping at short intervals, and Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing his brown tattooed legs over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely sociable and free and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our confabulations, what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed, and we felt like getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future.
我们就这样躺在床上，时不时地聊天、打盹，奎魁格时不时地亲切地把他那条有纹身的棕色腿放在我的腿上，然后又把它们拉回来；我们是那么善于交际、自由自在；最后，由于我们的闲聊，我们身上残留的一点点昏昏欲睡的感觉完全消失了，我们想再次起床，尽管距离黎明还有一段距离。

Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent position began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two noses bending over them, as if our kneepans were warming-pans. We felt very nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors; indeed out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the room. The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself. If you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been so a long time, then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more. But if, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip of your nose or the crown of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the general consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire, which is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich. For the height of this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and your snugness and the cold of the outer air. Then there you lie like the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.
是的，我们变得非常清醒；以至于我们的卧姿开始变得令人厌倦，渐渐地我们发现自己坐了起来。衣服很好地裹在我们身上，靠在床头板上，四个膝盖并拢，两个鼻子弯在它们上面，好像我们的膝盖是暖锅。我们感觉非常好和舒适，尤其是因为外面很冷。事实上，看到房间里没有生火，他也脱下了床单。我说更是如此，因为要真正享受身体的温暖，你的一小部分必须是冷的，因为这个世界上没有什么品质不是仅仅通过对比而呈现出来的。没有什么是本身存在的。如果你自以为舒服了，而且已经好久了，那你就不能说舒服了。但是，如果像床上的魁魁格和我一样，你的鼻尖或头顶有点冷，那么为什么在一般意识中你确实会感到最令人愉快和明确的温暖。因此，卧室绝对不应该配备火炉，这是富人奢华的不适之一。因为这种美味的顶峰就是除了你和你的舒适以及外面的寒冷空气之间的毯子之外什么都没有。然后你就躺在那里，就像北极水晶中心的一颗温暖的火花。

We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all at once I thought I would open my eyes; for when between sheets, whether by day or by night, and whether asleep or awake, I have a way of always keeping my eyes shut, in order the more to concentrate the snugness of being in bed. Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed the proper element of our essences, though light be more congenial to our clayey part. Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant and self-created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the unilluminated twelve-o’clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable revulsion. Nor did I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk. Be it said, that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in the bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when love once comes to bend them. For now I liked nothing better than to have Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such serene household joy then. I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord’s policy of insurance. I was only alive to the condensed confidential comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend. With our shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed the Tomahawk from one to the other, till slowly there grew over us a blue hanging tester of smoke, illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp.
我们就这样蹲着坐着有一段时间了，突然间我想我可以睁开眼睛了；但我还是没能睁开眼睛。因为在睡觉时，无论白天还是晚上，无论睡着还是醒着，我总是闭上眼睛，以便更加集中精力躺在床上的舒适感。因为除非闭上眼睛，否则没有人能够正确地感觉到自己的身份；仿佛黑暗确实是我们本质的适当元素，尽管光明更适合我们的粘土部分。当我睁开眼睛，从自己创造的愉快的黑暗中走出来，进入没有灯光的夜晚十二点强加的、粗糙的外部阴暗时，我经历了一种令人不快的厌恶。我也不反对魁魁格的暗示，也许最好点个灯，因为我们都这么清醒。此外，他还强烈地想用他的战斧安静地吸几口。可以这么说，虽然我前一天晚上对他在床上抽烟感到非常反感，但看看当爱情一旦来改变我们僵硬的偏见时，它们就会变得多么有弹性。现在我最喜欢魁魁格在我身边抽烟，即使是在床上，因为他当时似乎充满了如此平静的家庭欢乐。我不再对房东的保险政策感到过分担心。我只记得与真正的朋友共用一根烟斗和一条毯子时那种浓缩的、私密的舒适感。我们把毛茸茸的夹克披在肩上，把战斧从一个地方传递到另一个地方，直到我们头顶上慢慢地升起一团蓝色的烟雾，被新点燃的灯的火焰照亮。

Whether it was that this undulating tester rolled the savage away to far distant scenes, I know not, but he now spoke of his native island; and, eager to hear his history, I begged him to go on and tell it. He gladly complied. Though at the time I but ill comprehended not a few of his words, yet subsequent disclosures, when I had become more familiar with his broken phraseology, now enable me to present the whole story such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
我不知道这个起伏的测试员是否把野蛮人卷到了遥远的地方，但他现在谈到了他的家乡岛屿；由于渴望听到他的历史，我恳求他继续讲述。他很高兴地答应了。虽然当时我还没有理解他的一些话，但后来的披露，当我更加熟悉他破碎的措辞时，现在使我能够呈现整个故事，就像我给出的框架所证明的那样。

Chapter 12
第12章

Biographical.
传记。

Queequeg was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away to the West and South. It is not down in any map; true places never are.
魁魁格是罗科沃科岛人，这是一个远离西方和南方的岛屿。它不在任何地图上；真实的地方从来都不是。

When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native woodlands in a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a green sapling; even then, in Queequeg’s ambitious soul, lurked a strong desire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two. His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable warriors. There was excellent blood in his veins—royal stuff; though sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his untutored youth.
当一个刚孵化的野人踩着草在他的家乡林地里狂奔时，后面跟着啃咬的山羊，仿佛他是一棵绿色的树苗；即便如此，在奎魁格雄心勃勃的灵魂中，潜藏着一种强烈的愿望，想要看到更多基督教世界的东西，而不仅仅是一两个标本捕鲸者。他的父亲是一位高级酋长，一位国王；他的叔叔是一位大祭司；在母亲方面，他夸耀自己有阿姨，她们是不可战胜的战士的妻子。他的血管里流淌着优秀的皇家血液。但我担心，由于他在未受过教育的青年时期养成的食人倾向，他的性格受到了可悲的损害。

A Sag Harbor ship visited his father’s bay, and Queequeg sought a passage to Christian lands. But the ship, having her full complement of seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father’s influence could prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddled off to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when she quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its prow seaward, he sat down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the ship was gliding by, like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up the chains; and throwing himself at full length upon the deck, grappled a ring-bolt there, and swore not to let it go, though hacked in pieces.
萨格港的一艘船访问了他父亲的海湾，奎魁格寻找一条通往基督教土地的通道。但是，这艘船拥有充足的海员，拒绝了他的请求。并不是他父亲国王的所有影响力都能占上风。但魁魁格发誓。他独自划着独木舟，划向一个遥远的海峡，他知道船离开该岛时必须经过该海峡。一侧是珊瑚礁；另一侧是珊瑚礁。另一边是一片低矮的陆地，上面长满了伸入水中的红树林。他把仍然​​漂浮在这些灌木丛中的独木舟藏起来，船头朝海，他坐在船尾，低低地握着桨。当船驶过时，他像闪电一样冲了出去。赢得了她的支持；他的脚一向后猛冲，独木舟就翻了，沉了下去。爬上铁链；他全身扑倒在甲板上，抓住了那里的一个环形螺栓，并发誓不会放开它，尽管它被砍成了碎片。

In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended a cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, and Queequeg budged not. Struck by his desperate dauntlessness, and his wild desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last relented, and told him he might make himself at home. But this fine young savage—this sea Prince of Wales, never saw the Captain’s cabin. They put him down among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czar Peter content to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening his untutored countrymen. For at bottom—so he told me—he was actuated by a profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to make his people still happier than they were; and more than that, still better than they were. But, alas! the practices of whalemen soon convinced him that even Christians could be both miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all his father’s heathens. Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what the sailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they spent their wages in that place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for lost. Thought he, it’s a wicked world in all meridians; I’ll die a pagan.
船长威胁要将他扔下船，但没有成功。他赤裸的手腕上挂着一把弯刀；魁魁格是国王的儿子，魁魁格没有动摇。船长被他绝望的无畏精神和他访问基督教世界的强烈愿望所震惊，最后态度软化了，并告诉他可以放心了。但这个优秀的年轻野蛮人——这位威尔士亲王，却从未见过船长室。他们把他归入水手之中，并把他培养成一名捕鲸人。但就像沙皇彼得满足于在外国城市的造船厂辛勤劳作一样，魁魁格并不蔑视任何表面上的耻辱，如果他能借此快乐地获得启发他未受过教育的同胞的力量。因为他告诉我，他的内心深处有一种强烈的愿望，想在基督徒中学习艺术，从而使他的人民比他们现在更幸福。不仅如此，还比他们更好。可惜！捕鲸人的行为很快让他相信，即使是基督徒也可能既痛苦又邪恶。比他父亲的所有异教徒更是如此。终于到达老萨格港了；看看水手们在那里做了什么；然后继续前往楠塔基特岛，看到他们在那里也如何花工资，可怜的魁魁格就放弃了。他心想，这是一个万脉邪恶的世界；我会以异教徒的身份死去。

And thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians, wore their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish. Hence the queer ways about him, though now some time from home.
因此，他内心深处是一个古老的偶像崇拜者，但他却生活在这些基督徒中间，穿着他们的衣服，并试图说他们的胡言乱语。因此，尽管他现在离家一段时间，但他的举止却很奇怪。

By hints, I asked him whether he did not propose going back, and having a coronation; since he might now consider his father dead and gone, he being very old and feeble at the last accounts. He answered no, not yet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rather Christians, had unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty pagan Kings before him. But by and by, he said, he would return,—as soon as he felt himself baptized again. For the nonce, however, he proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans. They had made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre now.
通过暗示，我问他是否不打算回去加冕；他回答道。因为他现在可能认为他的父亲已经去世了，从最后的记载来看，他已经非常年老体弱了。他回答说还没有。并补充说，他害怕基督教，或者更确切地说，基督徒，使他不适合登上在他之前的三十个异教国王的纯洁无瑕的王位。但他说，随着时间的推移，只要他感到自己再次受洗了，他就会回来。不过，他暂时提议扬帆远航，在四大洋中撒播他的野燕麦。他们把他变成了一个标枪手，而那把带刺的铁现在代替了权杖。

I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future movements. He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation. Upon this, I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at once resolved to accompany me to that island, ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch, the same boat, the same mess with me, in short to share my every hap; with both my hands in his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds. To all this I joyously assented; for besides the affection I now felt for Queequeg, he was an experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not fail to be of great usefulness to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though well acquainted with the sea, as known to merchant seamen.
我问他近期的目的是什么，触及他未来的行动。他回答说，要继续他原来的使命，再次出海。于是，我告诉他捕鲸是我自己的设计，并告诉他我打算从楠塔基特岛航行，因为对于喜欢冒险的捕鲸人来说，楠塔基特岛是最有希望启航的港口。他当即决定陪我到那个岛去，同船同船、同守同船、同吃苦头，总之要分享我的一切快乐；我双手握在他的手中，大胆地沉浸在两个世界的聚餐中。对于这一切，我欣然同意；因为除了我现在对魁魁格的感情之外，他还是一位经验丰富的标枪手，因此，对于像我一样完全不了解捕鲸的奥秘的人来说，他一定是非常有用的，尽管他很熟悉捕鲸的奥秘。海，商船海员所熟知的。

His story being ended with his pipe’s last dying puff, Queequeg embraced me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we rolled over from each other, this way and that, and very soon were sleeping.
他的故事随着他的烟斗最后一口气而结束，奎魁格拥抱了我，用他的额头抵着我的额头，吹灭了灯，我们彼此翻滚，这样那样，很快就睡着了。

Chapter 13
第13章

Wheelbarrow.
独轮车。

Next morning, Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber, for a block, I settled my own and comrade’s bill; using, however, my comrade’s money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between me and Queequeg—especially as Peter Coffin’s cock and bull stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person whom I now companied with.
第二天早上，也就是星期一，我把经过防腐处理的头颅交给理发师，花了一块钱，结清了自己和同志的账单。然而，用的是我同志的钱。咧着嘴笑的房东以及房客们似乎对我和魁魁格之间突然出现的友谊感到非常高兴——尤其是彼得·科芬关于他的那些公牛故事此前曾让我对我现在陪伴的这个人感到非常震惊。和。

We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, including my own poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg’s canvas sack and hammock, away we went down to ‘the Moss,’ the little Nantucket packet schooner moored at the wharf. As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg so much—for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their streets,—but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But we heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg now and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. I asked him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and whether all whaling ships did not find their own harpoons. To this, in substance, he replied, that though what I hinted was true enough, yet he had a particular affection for his own harpoon, because it was of assured stuff, well tried in many a mortal combat, and deeply intimate with the hearts of whales. In short, like many inland reapers and mowers, who go into the farmers’ meadows armed with their own scythes—though in no wise obliged to furnish them—even so, Queequeg, for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.
我们借了一辆独轮手推车，搬上我们的东西，包括我自己可怜的地毯袋、魁魁格的帆布袋和吊床，我们前往“莫斯号”，那艘停泊在码头的小型楠塔基特邮包纵帆船。我们一路前行，人们都盯着我们看；不是在魁魁格——因为他们习惯在街上看到像他这样的食人者——而是在如此保密的情况下见到他和我。但我们没有理会他们，轮流推着手推车，魁魁格时不时停下来调整他的鱼叉倒刺上的鞘。我问他为什么要带着这么麻烦的东西上岸，是不是所有的捕鲸船都没有找到自己的鱼叉。对此，他实质上回答说，虽然我暗示的内容足够真实，但他对自己的鱼叉有一种特殊的感情，因为它是可靠的东西，在许多殊死搏斗中得到了很好的考验，并且与人心密切相关。鲸鱼。简而言之，就像许多内陆收割者和割草者一样，他们带着自己的镰刀进入农民的草地——尽管没有义务提供它们——即便如此，魁魁格出于个人原因，更喜欢自己的鱼叉。

Shifting the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. It was in Sag Harbor. The owners of his ship, it seems, had lent him one, in which to carry his heavy chest to his boarding house. Not to seem ignorant about the thing—though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise way in which to manage the barrow—Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes it fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf. ‘Why,’ said I, ‘Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would think. Didn’t the people laugh?’
他把手推车从我手里移到他手里，给我讲了一个关于他见过的第一辆手推车的有趣故事。那是在萨格港。看来他的船的主人借给了他一艘船，用来把他沉重的箱子搬到寄宿处。为了避免显得对这件事一无所知——尽管实际上他完全是这样，对管理手推车的精确方法——奎魁格把胸放在上面；快速地鞭打它；然后扛起手推车，向码头走去。 “为什么，”我说，“奎魁格，你可能比那更清楚，人们会想。人们没有笑吗？

Upon this, he told me another story. The people of his island of Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant water of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided mat where the feast is held. Now a certain grand merchant ship once touched at Rokovoko, and its commander—from all accounts, a very stately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain—this commander was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg’s sister, a pretty young princess just turned of ten. Well; when all the wedding guests were assembled at the bride’s bamboo cottage, this Captain marches in, and being assigned the post of honour, placed himself over against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and his majesty the King, Queequeg’s father. Grace being said,—for those people have their grace as well as we—though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who at such times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying the ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts—Grace, I say, being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony of the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers into the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates. Seeing himself placed next the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking himself—being Captain of a ship—as having plain precedence over a mere island King, especially in the King’s own house—the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the punchbowl;—taking it I suppose for a huge finger-glass. ‘Now,’ said Queequeg, ‘what you tink now?—Didn’t our people laugh?’
说到这里，他又给我讲了一个故事。罗科沃科岛上的人们似乎在婚宴上将新鲜椰子的芳香水倒入一个像潘趣酒碗一样的大葫芦里；这个潘趣酒碗总是成为举办盛宴的编织垫上的重要中央装饰品。现在，一艘大型商船曾经停靠在罗科沃科，它的指挥官——从各方面来看，是一位非常庄严、一丝不苟的绅士，至少对于一位船长来说——这位指挥官被邀请参加奎奎格的妹妹的婚宴，奎奎格的妹妹是一位刚刚变成的年轻漂亮的公主。经常。出色地;当所有参加婚礼的宾客都聚集在新娘的竹屋里时，这位船长走了进来，被任命为荣誉职位，他坐在大祭司和奎魁格的父亲国王陛下之间，靠着潘趣酒杯。说到恩典，因为那些人​​和我们一样有他们的恩典，尽管魁魁格告诉我，与我们不同，我们有时会低头看着我们的盘子，相反，他们模仿鸭子，向上看伟大的给予者在所有的节日中——恩典，我说，话虽这么说，大祭司按照岛上远古的仪式开始了宴会；也就是说，在受祝福的饮料流通之前，将他的奉献和奉献的手指浸入碗中。看到自己被放在牧师旁边，注意到仪式，并认为自己——作为一艘船的船长——明显优先于一个单纯的岛屿国王，尤其是在国王自己的家里——船长冷静地开始在潘趣酒碗里洗手；——我想把它当作一个巨大的手指玻璃。 “现在，”奎魁格说，“你现在觉得怎么样？——我们的人没有笑吗？”

At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner. Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river. On one side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees all glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of casks on casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the start; that one most perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on, for ever and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all earthly effort.
最后，付了车费，行李也安全了，我们登上了纵帆船。扬起帆，它沿着阿库什内特河滑行。一侧，新贝德福德在街道的露台上拔地而起，冰雪覆盖的树木在清澈寒冷的空气中闪闪发光。巨大的山丘和堆积如山的木桶堆积在她的码头上，并肩航行的捕鲸船静静地停泊在世界各地，最后安全地停泊在岸上。另一些人则传来木匠和制桶工人的声音，夹杂着火和锻造熔化沥青的声音，所有这些都预示着新的航行即将开始。一次最危险、最漫长的航行结束了，下一秒才开始；第二次结束，第三次才开始，依此类推，永远，永远。是的，这就是世间一切努力的无穷无尽，令人无法忍受。

Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little Moss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings. How I snuffed that Tartar air!—how I spurned that turnpike earth!—that common highway all over dented with the marks of slavish heels and hoofs; and turned me to admire the magnanimity of the sea which will permit no records.
获得了更开阔的水域，令人振奋的微风变得清新；小莫斯从她的弓上迅速吐出泡沫，就像一匹小马驹在喷鼻息一样。我多么厌恶那鞑靼人的空气啊！——我多么唾弃那收费公路的土地啊！——那条普通的公路上满是奴仆的脚跟和马蹄的痕迹；让我赞叹大海的宽宏，不允许任何记录。

At the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me. His dusky nostrils swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth. On, on we flew; and our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the blast; ducked and dived her bows as a slave before the Sultan. Sideways leaning, we sideways darted; every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the two tall masts buckling like Indian canes in land tornadoes. So full of this reeling scene were we, as we stood by the plunging bowsprit, that for some time we did not notice the jeering glances of the passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two fellow beings should be so companionable; as though a white man were anything more dignified than a whitewashed negro. But there were some boobies and bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart and centre of all verdure. Queequeg caught one of these young saplings mimicking him behind his back. I thought the bumpkin’s hour of doom was come. Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an almost miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the air; then slightly tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk pipe and passed it to me for a puff.
在同一个泡沫喷泉边，魁魁格似乎和我一起喝酒、狂欢。他暗淡的鼻孔张开。他露出了他的锉齿和尖牙。继续，我们飞翔；当我们到达时，苔藓向爆炸致敬；她像奴隶一样在苏丹面前低头俯身。侧身倾斜，我们侧身冲刺；每根绳纱都像金属丝一样刺痛；两根高高的桅杆像陆地龙卷风中的印度手杖一样弯曲。当我们站在急速下降的船头斜桅旁时，我们对这一令人晕眩的场景充满了兴趣，以至于有一段时间我们没有注意到乘客们嘲笑的目光，他们像笨蛋一样聚集在一起，惊讶于两个同胞竟然如此友好；好像白人比粉刷过的黑人更有尊严。但那里有一些鲣鸟和乡巴佬，从他们浓浓的绿色来看，他们一定来自所有翠绿的中心和中心。魁魁格发现其中一棵小树苗在背后模仿他。我以为乡巴佬的末日已经到了。粗壮的野蛮人扔下鱼叉，将他抱在怀里，并以近乎奇迹般的灵巧和力量，将他整个人抛到了空中。然后，在萨默塞特中部，那家伙轻轻地拍了一下船尾，双脚着地，肺部爆裂，而奎奎格则背对着他，点燃了他的战斧烟斗，递给我吸了一口。

‘Capting! Capting! yelled the bumpkin, running towards that officer; ‘Capting, Capting, here’s the devil.’
‘捕获！捕获！土包子一边喊一边朝那名军官跑去。 “卡普廷，卡普廷，魔鬼来了。”

‘Hallo, YOU sir,’ cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking up to Queequeg, ‘what in thunder do you mean by that? Don’t you know you might have killed that chap?’
“哈喽，先生，”船长喊道，他就像大海中瘦削的肋骨，大步走到奎魁格身边，“您这话是什么意思？你难道不知道你可能杀了那个家伙吗？

‘What him say?’ said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
“他说什么？”魁魁格温和地转向我说道。

‘He say,’ said I, ‘that you came near kill-e that man there,’ pointing to the still shivering greenhorn.
“他说，”我指着仍在颤抖的新手说道，“你差点杀了那里的那个人。”

‘Kill-e,’ cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed face into an unearthly expression of disdain, ‘ah! him bevy small-e fish-e; Queequeg no kill-e so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!’
“杀了你，”奎魁格喊道，他的纹身脸扭曲成一种超凡脱俗的轻蔑表情，“啊！他有小鱼-e； Queequeg 不杀-e 那么小-e 鱼-e;魁魁格杀死了大鲸鱼！”

‘Look you,’ roared the Captain, ‘I’ll kill-e YOU, you cannibal, if you try any more of your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.’
“听着，”船长咆哮道，“如果你在船上再玩你的把戏，我就杀了你，你这个食人者；所以请注意你的眼睛。

But it so happened just then, that it was high time for the Captain to mind his own eye. The prodigious strain upon the main-sail had parted the weather-sheet, and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to side, completely sweeping the entire after part of the deck. The poor fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was swept overboard; all hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay it, seemed madness. It flew from right to left, and back again, almost in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of snapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In the midst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and crawling under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was run into the wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a long living arc of a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog, throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by turns revealing his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved. The greenhorn had gone down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from the water, Queequeg, now took an instant’s glance around him, and seeming to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutes more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the other dragging a lifeless form. The boat soon picked them up. The poor bumpkin was restored. All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain begged his pardon. From that hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea, till poor Queequeg took his last long dive.
但就在那时，船长该注意自己的眼睛了。主帆上的巨大压力已经分开了挡风雨板，巨大的吊杆现在从一边飞向另一边，完全扫过了整个甲板的后部。奎魁格如此粗鲁地对待那个可怜的家伙，他被卷下了船。所有人都惊慌失措。试图抓住吊杆来阻止它，似乎是疯狂的。它从右飞到左，又飞回来，几乎只在一瞬间，每一瞬间都像是要碎成碎片。什么也没做，似乎也没有什么能做的；甲板上的人冲向船头，站在那里盯着吊杆，仿佛它是一头愤怒的鲸鱼的下颌。在这惊愕之中，奎魁格灵巧地跪​​倒在地，爬到吊杆路径下，猛地抓住一根绳子，将一端固定在舷墙上，然后像套索一样扔出另一端，将其套在吊杆周围。当它扫过他的头顶时，在下一次猛拉时，桅杆就这样被困住了，一切都安全了。纵帆船迎风而行，当人们清理船尾的船时，魁魁格赤裸着上身，从船舷处跳出一条长长的、活生生的弧线。在三分钟多的时间里，人们看到他像狗一样游泳，将长长的手臂伸直在身前，时而在冰冷的泡沫中露出强壮的肩膀。我看着这位伟大而光荣的家伙，却没有看到有人得救。新手已经倒下了。奎魁格从水中垂直射出自己，立即扫视了四周，似乎明白了事情的真相，然后潜入水中消失了。 又过了几分钟，他再次站了起来，一只手臂仍在伸出，另一只手臂拖着一个毫无生气的尸体。船很快就接了他们。可怜的土包子又恢复了。所有人都投票给奎魁格一位高贵的王牌；船长请求他原谅。从那时起，我像藤壶一样热爱魁魁格；是的，直到可怜的奎魁格进行最后一次长距离潜水。

Was there ever such unconsciousness? He did not seem to think that he at all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies. He only asked for water—fresh water—something to wipe the brine off; that done, he put on dry clothes, lighted his pipe, and leaning against the bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those around him, seemed to be saying to himself—‘It’s a mutual, joint-stock world, in all meridians. We cannibals must help these Christians.’
曾经有过这样的无意识吗？他似乎根本不认为自己值得获得仁慈协会颁发的奖章。他只要求水——淡水——用来擦掉盐水的东西；说完，他换上干衣服，点燃烟斗，靠在舷墙上，温和地打量着周围的人，似乎在对自己说：“这是一个相互共生的世界，万脉经脉。”我们食人者必须帮助这些基督徒。”

Chapter 14
第14章

Nantucket.
楠塔基特岛。

Nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning; so, after a fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
这段路中没有发生任何其他值得一提的事情。就这样，经过一番精彩的奔跑，我们安全抵达了楠塔基特岛。

Nantucket! Take out your map and look at it. See what a real corner of the world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely than the Eddystone lighthouse. Look at it—a mere hillock, and elbow of sand; all beach, without a background. There is more sand there than you would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper. Some gamesome wights will tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they don’t grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that pieces of wood in Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true cross in Rome; that people there plant toadstools before their houses, to get under the shade in summer time; that one blade of grass makes an oasis, three blades in a day’s walk a prairie; that they wear quicksand shoes, something like Laplander snow-shoes; that they are so shut up, belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and made an utter island of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables small clams will sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea turtles. But these extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
楠塔基特！拿出你的地图来看看。看看它占据了世界的一个多么真实的角落；它矗立在那里，远离海岸，比埃迪斯通灯塔更孤独。看看它——只不过是一座小山丘和一处沙子；全是海滩，没有背景。那里的沙子比你二十年来用来代替吸墨纸的沙子还要多。一些贪玩的异鬼会告诉你，他们必须在那里种植杂草，它们不会自然生长；他们进口加拿大蓟；他们必须远渡重洋去取一小部分，以防止油桶泄漏；楠塔基特岛的木头就像罗马的真正十字架的碎片一样被携带着；那里的人们在自家门前种植毒菌，以便在夏季乘凉；一片草叶可以成为绿洲，一天中的三片草叶可以成为草原；他们穿着流沙鞋，类似于拉普兰雪鞋；它们被封闭起来，被束缚起来，四面八方封闭，被海洋包围，成为一座完全的海洋岛屿，以至于有时会发现小蛤附着在它们的椅子和桌子上，就像海龟的背上一样。但这些盛况只能表明楠塔基特岛不是伊利诺伊州。

Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was settled by the red-men. Thus goes the legend. In olden times an eagle swooped down upon the New England coast, and carried off an infant Indian in his talons. With loud lament the parents saw their child borne out of sight over the wide waters. They resolved to follow in the same direction. Setting out in their canoes, after a perilous passage they discovered the island, and there they found an empty ivory casket,—the poor little Indian’s skeleton.
现在看看红人如何定居这个岛屿的奇妙传统故事。传说就这样过去了。很久以前，一只鹰猛扑到新英格兰海岸，用爪子叼走了一个印第安婴儿。父母们大声哀悼，看着他们的孩子被带到宽阔的水面上，消失在人们的视线中。他们决定朝同一个方向前进。他们乘独木舟出发，经过一段危险的航程后，他们发现了这个岛，并在那里发现了一个空的象牙棺材，那就是可怜的小印第安人的骨架。

What wonder, then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take to the sea for a livelihood! They first caught crabs and quohogs in the sand; grown bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel; more experienced, they pushed off in boats and captured cod; and at last, launching a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world; put an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in at Behring’s Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans declared everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the flood; most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalehan, salt-sea Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that his very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and malicious assaults!
那么，这些出生在海滩上的楠塔基特人竟然会到海边谋生，这也就不足为奇了！他们首先在沙子里捕捉螃蟹和美洲驼；他们胆子越来越大，便带着网涉水去捕鲭鱼。经验更丰富的他们乘船出发并捕获鳕鱼。最后，派遣一支庞大的海军舰队出海，探索这个水世界。在它周围放置一条不间断的环球航行带；窥视贝林海峡；在所有季节和所有海洋中，都与洪水中幸存下来的最强大的生机勃勃的群体宣战；最可怕、最山峦叠嶂！那头喜马拉雅盐海乳齿象，披着如此不祥的无意识力量，以至于他的恐慌比他最无所畏惧和恶意的攻击更可怕！

And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing from their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like so many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let America add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the English overswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun; two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer’s. For the sea is his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right of way through it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea as highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of the land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the bottomless deep itself. The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on the sea; he alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and fro ploughing it as his own special plantation. THERE is his home; THERE lies his business, which a Noah’s flood would not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all the millions in China. He lives on the sea, as prairie cocks in the prairie; he hides among the waves, he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the Alps. For years he knows not the land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smells like another world, more strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman. With the landless gull, that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep between billows; so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land, furls his sails, and lays him to his rest, while under his very pillow rush herds of walruses and whales.
就这样，这些赤身裸体的楠塔基特人，这些海中隐士，从海上的蚁丘中走出来，像许多亚历山大一样，占领并征服了水世界。正如三大海盗强国瓜分波兰那样，将大西洋、太平洋和印度洋瓜分其中。让美国把墨西哥加到德克萨斯州，把古巴加到加拿大；让英国人占领整个印度，在阳光下悬挂他们燃烧的旗帜；这个陆地地球的三分之二是楠塔基特人的。因为大海是他的；他拥有它，就像皇帝拥有帝国一样；其他海员只有通过权。商船不过是延伸桥；武装的但漂浮的堡垒；即使是海盗和私掠船，虽然像强盗一样顺着大海走，但他们也掠夺其他船只，掠夺像他们一样的其他土地碎片，而不是寻求从无底深渊本身获取生计。楠塔基特人，他独自居住并在海上骚乱；用圣经的话来说，他独自乘船前往那里；来来回回地犁地，把它当作自己的特殊种植园。那是他的家；他的事业就在那里，即使诺亚洪水淹没了中国数百万人，也不会中断他的事业。他生活在海上，就像草原上的雄鸡一样；他隐藏在海浪中，他像羚羊猎人攀登阿尔卑斯山一样攀爬海浪。多年来他对这片土地一无所知；因此，当他最终到达那里时，它闻起来就像另一个世界，比地球人的月亮更奇怪。与无地的海鸥一起，日落时收起翅膀，在波涛间摇晃入睡；因此，夜幕降临时，楠塔基特号在看不见陆地的地方，收起帆，让他休息，而他的枕头下却涌动着成群的海象和鲸鱼。

Chapter 15
第15章

Chowder.
杂烩汤。

It was quite late in the evening when the little Moss came snugly to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we could attend to no business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed. The landlord of the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey of the Try Pots, whom he asserted to be the proprietor of one of the best kept hotels in all Nantucket, and moreover he had assured us that Cousin Hosea, as he called him, was famous for his chowders. In short, he plainly hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot-luck at the Try Pots. But the directions he had given us about keeping a yellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church to the larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made a corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very much puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg insisted that the yellow warehouse—our first point of departure—must be left on the larboard hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say it was on the starboard. However, by dint of beating about a little in the dark, and now and then knocking up a peaceable inhabitant to inquire the way, we at last came to something which there was no mistaking.
当小莫斯号顺利地抛锚停泊时，已经是晚上很晚了，奎魁格和我也上了岸。所以那天我们可以无事可做，至少除了吃晚饭和睡觉之外什么都不用做。 Spouter-Inn 的房东向我们推荐了他的 Try Pots 餐厅的表弟 Hosea Hussey，他声称他是整个楠塔基特岛保存最好的酒店之一的老板，而且他还向我们保证，表弟 Hosea Hussey称呼他为他的杂烩汤而闻名。简而言之，他明确地暗示，我们不可能比在“Try Pots”尝试一下便餐更好。但是他给我们的指示是在我们的右舷处保留一个黄色仓库，直到我们向左舷打开一座白色教堂，然后将其保留在左舷处，直到我们在右舷处形成一个三点的拐角，然后就完成了，然后询问我们遇到的第一个人这个地方在哪里：他的这些弯曲的方向一开始让我们非常困惑，特别是因为，一开始，奎奎格坚持认为黄色仓库——我们的第一个出发点——必须留在左手边，而我理解彼得·科芬说它在右舷。然而，凭借在黑暗中摸索了一会儿，并时不时地敲打一个安静的居民来问路，我们终于找到了一个不会弄错的地方。

Two enormous wooden pots painted black, and suspended by asses’ ears, swung from the cross-trees of an old top-mast, planted in front of an old doorway. The horns of the cross-trees were sawed off on the other side, so that this old top-mast looked not a little like a gallows. Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at the time, but I could not help staring at this gallows with a vague misgiving. A sort of crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining horns; yes, TWO of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me. It’s ominous, thinks I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port; tombstones staring at me in the whalemen’s chapel; and here a gallows! and a pair of prodigious black pots too! Are these last throwing out oblique hints touching Tophet?
两个巨大的木盆漆成黑色，用驴耳朵悬挂起来，悬挂在一根旧顶桅的横树上，立在一个旧门口前。横木的角在另一边被锯掉了，所以这根古老的顶桅看起来不象是绞刑架。也许我当时对这样的印象过于敏感，但我不禁带着隐约的疑虑盯着这绞刑架。当我抬头看着剩下的两个角时，我的脖子感到一阵抽搐。是的，其中两份，一份给魁魁格，一份给我。这是不祥的预兆，我想。客栈老板在我第一个捕鲸港口登陆时放了一口棺材；捕鲸人教堂里的墓碑注视着我；这里有一个绞刑架！还有一对大黑锅！这些最后抛出的间接暗示是否触动了托斐特？

I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of the inn, under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an injured eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen shirt.
我从这些倒影中惊醒，看到一个满脸雀斑的黄头发、身穿黄袍的女人，她站在客栈的门廊里，一盏昏暗的红灯摇曳在那里，看起来很像一只受伤的眼睛，正在轻快地走着。和一个穿紫色羊毛衫的男人骂。

‘Get along with ye,’ said she to the man, ‘or I’ll be combing ye!’
“和你好好相处，”她对男人说，“不然我就给你梳头了！”

‘Come on, Queequeg,’ said I, ‘all right. There’s Mrs. Hussey.’
“来吧，魁魁格，”我说，“好吧。”赫西夫人来了。

And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Upon making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little room, and seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently concluded repast, turned round to us and said—‘Clam or Cod?’
事实证明；霍西阿·赫西先生不在家，但赫西夫人完全有能力处理他的所有事务。当我们得知我们想要一顿晚餐和一张床的愿望后，赫西夫人暂时推迟了进一步的责骂，把我们领进了一个小房间，让我们坐在一张桌子旁，桌子上摆满了最近吃完的饭菜，然后转向我们并说道——“蛤还是鳕鱼？”

‘What’s that about Cods, ma’am?’ said I, with much politeness.
“女士，科德斯是怎么回事？”我很有礼貌地说。

‘Clam or Cod?’ she repeated.
“蛤还是鳕鱼？”她重复道。

‘A clam for supper? a cold clam; is THAT what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?’ says I, ‘but that’s a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter time, ain’t it, Mrs. Hussey?’
‘晚餐吃蛤蜊吗？冷蛤； “赫西夫人，你就是这个意思吗？”我说，“但在冬天，这里的接待相当寒冷、潮湿，不是吗，赫西夫人？”

But being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple Shirt, who was waiting for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing but the word ‘clam,’ Mrs. Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to the kitchen, and bawling out ‘clam for two,’ disappeared.
但是，赫西夫人急忙继续责骂那个在入口处等待的穿紫色衬衫的男人，似乎除了“蛤”这个词之外什么也没听到，赫西夫人急忙走向一扇通向厨房的敞开的门，并大声喊出“两个人的蛤蜊”，消失了。

‘Queequeg,’ said I, ‘do you think that we can make out a supper for us both on one clam?’
“魁魁格，”我说，“你认为我们可以用一只蛤蜊为我们俩做一顿晚餐吗？”

However, a warm savory steam from the kitchen served to belie the apparently cheerless prospect before us. But when that smoking chowder came in, the mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends! hearken to me. It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely bigger than hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut up into little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully seasoned with pepper and salt. Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favourite fishing food before him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched it with great expedition: when leaning back a moment and bethinking me of Mrs. Hussey’s clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try a little experiment. Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word ‘cod’ with great emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a few moments the savoury steam came forth again, but with a different flavor, and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placed before us.
然而，厨房里冒出的热气腾腾的蒸汽掩盖了我们面前明显的惨淡景象。但当那道冒烟的杂烩汤进来时，这个谜团就被愉快地解释了。哦，亲爱的朋友们！听我说。它是用多汁的小蛤蜊制成的，比榛子大不了多少，与捣碎的船饼干和切成小片的咸猪肉混合在一起。整个过程富含黄油，并用胡椒和盐充分调味。寒冷的航行使我们胃口大开，特别是奎魁格看到他最喜欢的钓鱼食物在他面前，杂烩汤非常美味，我们以极大的探险精神把它送出去：当我向后靠了一会儿，想起了赫西夫人的蛤蜊和鳕鱼公告，我想我应该尝试一个小实验。走到厨房门口，我重重地说出“鳕鱼”两个字，然后又回到了座位上。过了一会儿，美味的蒸汽又冒了出来，但味道不同了，美味的鳕鱼杂烩及时摆在我们面前。

We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the bowl, thinks I to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the head? What’s that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people? ‘But look, Queequeg, ain’t that a live eel in your bowl? Where’s your harpoon?’
我们恢复营业；当我把勺子放在碗里时，我心里想，我现在想知道这对头部有什么影响吗？那些关于杂烩头的人的愚蠢说法是什么？ “但是你看，奎魁格，你碗里那不是一条活鳗鱼吗？”你的鱼叉在哪里？

Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved its name; for the pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder for breakfast, and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you began to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes. The area before the house was paved with clam-shells. Mrs. Hussey wore a polished necklace of codfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account books bound in superior old shark-skin. There was a fishy flavor to the milk, too, which I could not at all account for, till one morning happening to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen’s boats, I saw Hosea’s brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and marching along the sand with each foot in a cod’s decapitated head, looking very slip-shod, I assure ye.
所有鱼类最多的地方是“Try Pots”，它名副其实。锅里总是煮着浓汤。早餐吃杂烩，晚餐吃杂烩，晚餐吃杂烩，直到你开始寻找穿过衣服的鱼刺。房子前的区域是用蛤壳铺成的。赫西夫人戴着一条擦得锃亮的鳕鱼椎项链。何西阿·赫西 (Hosea Hussey) 的账簿是用优质的老鲨鱼皮装订的。牛奶里也有一股鱼腥味，我根本无法解释，直到有一天早上，我碰巧在海滩上的一些渔船中散步，我看到何西阿的斑纹牛正在吃鱼的残渣，并沿着海岸行进。我向你们保证，每只脚都踩在沙子上，就像鳕鱼的斩首头一样，看起来非常邋遢。

Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and directions from Mrs. Hussey concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as Queequeg was about to precede me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her arm, and demanded his harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. ‘Why not? said I; ‘every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon—but why not?’ ‘Because it’s dangerous,’ says she. ‘Ever since young Stiggs coming from that unfort’nt v’y’ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with only three barrels of ILE, was found dead in my first floor back, with his harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to take sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg’ (for she had learned his name), ‘I will just take this here iron, and keep it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for breakfast, men?’
晚饭结束后，我们收到了一盏灯，以及赫西夫人给我们的关于去最近睡觉的路的指示。但是，当魁魁格要先我上楼梯时，那位女士伸出手臂，要了他的鱼叉；她不允许在她的房间里使用鱼叉。 '为什么不？我说； “每个真正的捕鲸人睡觉时都会带着鱼叉——但为什么不呢？”“因为这很危险，”她说。 “自从年轻的斯蒂格斯从他那个不幸的地方回来后，他离开了四年半，只带着三桶 ILE，被发现死在我一楼的后面，他的鱼叉插在他的身上。边;从那时起，我不允许任何寄宿生在晚上在自己的房间里携带此类危险武器。所以，魁魁格先生”（因为她已经知道了他的名字），“我就把这个铁拿过来，为你保留到早上。”但是杂烩汤；明天早餐吃蛤蜊还是鳕鱼，伙计们？

‘Both,’ says I; ‘and let’s have a couple of smoked herring by way of variety.’
“两者都有。”我说。 “我们来几条不同种类的熏鲱鱼吧。”

Chapter 16
第16章

The Ship.
船。

In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and no small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that he had been diligently consulting Yojo—the name of his black little god—and Yojo had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, Yojo earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order to do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, I, Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it had turned out by chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship myself, for the present irrespective of Queequeg.
我们在床上制定了明天的计划。但令我惊讶和不小的担忧的是，奎魁格现在让我明白，他一直在孜孜不倦地咨询尤乔——他的黑色小神的名字——而尤乔已经告诉过他两三遍，并且每次都强烈坚持，我们不再一起去港口的捕鲸船队中，共同选择我们的船只；相反，我要说的是，约乔恳切地嘱咐说，选择这艘船的决定权完全由我来决定，因为约乔的目的是与我们交朋友。为了做到这一点，我已经搭上了一艘船，如果由我自己决定，我，以实玛利，应该绝对正确地点燃它，对全世界来说，就好像它是偶然出现的一样；我必须立即乘那艘船上船，暂时不管魁魁格在哪里。

I have forgotten to mention that, in many things, Queequeg placed great confidence in the excellence of Yojo’s judgment and surprising forecast of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem, as a rather good sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole, but in all cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.
我忘了提到，在很多事情上，奎奎格对尤乔卓越的判断力和对事物的令人惊讶的预测充满信心。并非常尊重尤乔，将他视为一位相当善良的神，总体上来说，他的本意也许足够好，但在所有情况下，他的仁慈计划都没有成功。

Now, this plan of Queequeg’s, or rather Yojo’s, touching the selection of our craft; I did not like that plan at all. I had not a little relied upon Queequeg’s sagacity to point out the whaler best fitted to carry us and our fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrances produced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to acquiesce; and accordingly prepared to set about this business with a determined rushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that trifling little affair. Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with Yojo in our little bedroom—for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo that day; HOW it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself to it several times, I never could master his liturgies and XXXIX Articles—leaving Queequeg, then, fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming himself at his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied out among the shipping. After much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries, I learnt that there were three ships up for three-years’ voyages—The Devil-dam, the Tit-bit, and the Pequod. DEVIL-DAM, I do not know the origin of; TIT-BIT is obvious; PEQUOD, you will no doubt remember, was the name of a celebrated tribe of Massachusetts Indians; now extinct as the ancient Medes. I peered and pryed about the Devil-dam; from her, hopped over to the Tit-bit; and finally, going on board the Pequod, looked around her for a moment, and then decided that this was the very ship for us.
现在，Queequeg 的这个计划，或者更确切地说 Yojo 的计划，涉及到我们工艺的选择；我一点也不喜欢那个计划。我非常依赖魁魁格的睿智来指出最适合安全运送我们和我们的财富的捕鲸船。但由于我所有的抗议对魁魁格都没有产生任何影响，我不得不默许。因此，他准备以一种坚决的精力和活力开始处理这件事，这应该很快就能解决那件琐碎的小事。第二天一大早，把魁魁格和约乔关在我们的小卧室里——因为那天似乎是某种四旬斋或斋月，或者是禁食、羞辱和与魁魁格和约乔一起祈祷的日子；但他们都知道，这就是奎魁格和约乔在一起的日子。我永远无法弄清楚到底是怎么回事，因为，尽管我多次专心致志，但我始终无法掌握他的礼拜仪式和三十九篇文章——留下奎奎格，然后，禁食他的战斧烟斗，而尤乔则在他的祭火上取暖。刨花，我在船运中出去了。经过长时间的闲逛和多次随机询问，我得知有三艘船将进行为期三年的航行：魔鬼坝号、蒂特比特号和裴阔德号。 DEVIL-DAM，我不知道它的起源； TIT-BIT 是显而易见的；您无疑会记得，PEQUOD 是马萨诸塞州印第安人的一个著名部落的名字。现在已经和古代米底人一样灭绝了。我凝视并打探着魔鬼大坝的情况；从她身边跳到小雀身上；最后，登上“裴阔德”号，环顾四周，然后决定这就是我们的船。

You may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught I know;—square-toed luggers; mountainous Japanese junks; butter-box galliots, and what not; but take my word for it, you never saw such a rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod. She was a ship of the old school, rather small if anything; with an old-fashioned claw-footed look about her. Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons and calms of all four oceans, her old hull’s complexion was darkened like a French grenadier’s, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia. Her venerable bows looked bearded. Her masts—cut somewhere on the coast of Japan, where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale—her masts stood stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her ancient decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped flag-stone in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled. But to all these her old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining to the wild business that for more than half a century she had followed. Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the principal owners of the Pequod,—this old Peleg, during the term of his chief-mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, and inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both of material and device, unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake’s carved buckler or bedstead. She was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing of trophies. A cannibal of a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies. All round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her old hempen thews and tendons to. Those thews ran not through base blocks of land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory. Scorning a turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported there a tiller; and that tiller was in one mass, curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditary foe. The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw. A noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy! All noble things are touched with that.
据我所知，您当时可能见过许多奇特的工艺；——方趾小帆船；多山的日本帆船；黄油盒小帆船，还有什么不是；但请相信我的话，你从来没有见过像这同样罕见的老佩阔德这样罕见的古老工艺。她是一艘老式的船，即使有什么不同，也相当小。她的外表看起来像老式的爪足。经过长期的台风和四大洋风浪的考验，她的旧船体饱经风霜，颜色变黑，就像法国掷弹兵一样，曾在埃及和西伯利亚作战过。她那令人尊敬的弓看起来长着胡须。她的桅杆——在日本海岸的某个地方被砍断了，原来的桅杆在一场大风中被抛到了船外——她的桅杆僵硬地竖立着，就像科隆三位老国王的脊椎一样。她古老的甲板已经破旧、起皱，就像坎特伯雷大教堂里朝圣者崇拜的石板一样，贝克特曾在那里流血。但她所有这些古老的古董都增添了新的、奇妙的特征，这些特征与她半个多世纪以来所从事的疯狂事业有关。老法勒船长，多年来一直是她的大副，后来他指挥了自己的另一艘船，现在是一名退休海员，也是“裴阔德”号的主要船主之一——这位老法勒在担任大副期间，建立在她原来的怪诞的基础上，并用一种​​古怪的材料和装置镶嵌在它身上，除了索基尔-哈克的雕刻圆盾或床架之外，其他任何东西都无法比拟。她的穿着就像任何一个野蛮的埃塞俄比亚皇帝，脖子上挂着抛光的象牙吊坠。她是一个战利品。一个技艺精湛的食人者，在敌人追赶的骨头中欺骗自己。 四周，她的未镶板、敞开的舷墙装饰得像一个连续的下巴，抹香鲸长而锋利的牙齿插在那里作为别针，以固定她的旧麻绳和肌腱。这些水流不是穿过陆地木材的基块，而是巧妙地穿过成捆的海象牙。她蔑视她那可敬的掌舵处的十字转门轮子，却在那里炫耀着一个舵柄。那个舵柄是一团，奇怪地是用她的遗传敌人的又长又窄的下颌雕刻而成的。在暴风雨中用舵柄掌舵的舵手，感觉自己就像鞑靼人，他紧紧抓住火热战马的下巴，阻止了它的前进。一种高贵的手艺，但不知何故却是一种最忧郁的！所有高贵的事物都与此相关。

Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having authority, in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at first I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast. It seemed only a temporary erection used in port. It was of a conical shape, some ten feet high; consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale. Planted with their broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced together, mutually sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in a tufted point, where the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like the top-knot on some old Pottowottamie Sachem’s head. A triangular opening faced towards the bows of the ship, so that the insider commanded a complete view forward.
现在，当我环视尾甲板，寻找有权力的人，以提议自己作为这次航行的候选人时，起初我没有看到任何人；后来我发现没有人。但我无法忽视一种奇怪的帐篷，或者更确切地说是棚屋，搭建在主桅杆后面不远的地方。这似乎只是在港口使用的临时建筑。它呈圆锥形，大约十英尺高。由取自露脊鲸下巴中部和最高部分的长而巨大的柔软黑骨组成。这些石板的宽端种植在甲板上，一圈这些石板系在一起，相互倾斜，在顶点处联合成一个簇状点，其中松散的毛状纤维来回波动，就像一些古老的顶结一样。波托沃塔米·萨赫姆的头颅。一个三角形的开口面向船头，这样内部人员就能看到前方的完整视野。

And half concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who by his aspect seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and the ship’s work suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of command. He was seated on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all over with curious carving; and the bottom of which was formed of a stout interlacing of the same elastic stuff of which the wigwam was constructed.
在这间奇怪的公寓里，我终于找到了一个半隐身的人，从他的外表来看，他似乎拥有权威。现在正值中午，船上的工作暂停了，他现在正从指挥的重担中得到喘息的机会。他坐在一张老式橡木椅子上，全身都在蠕动着奇怪的雕刻。其底部是用与建造棚屋相同的弹性材料编织而成的。

There was nothing so very particular, perhaps, about the appearance of the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old seamen, and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style; only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest wrinkles interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from his continual sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to windward;—for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed together. Such eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.
我所看到的那位老人的外貌或许并没有什么特别之处。他像大多数老海员一样，皮肤黝黑，肌肉发达，身上裹着贵格会风格的蓝色飞行员布。只是他的眼睛周围有一个细密的、几乎是微观的皱纹，这些皱纹交织在一起，这一定是由于他在许多强风中不断航行，并且总是面向上风而产生的；因为这导致眼睛周围的肌肉变得僵硬。撅在一起。这种眼部皱纹在皱眉时非常有效。

‘Is this the Captain of the Pequod?’ said I, advancing to the door of the tent.
“这是‘裴阔德’号的船长吗？”我一边说，一边走到帐篷门口。

‘Supposing it be the captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?’ he demanded.
“假设是裴廓德号的船长，你想要他做什么？”他问道。

‘I was thinking of shipping.’
“我正在考虑运送。”

‘Thou wast, wast thou? I see thou art no Nantucketer—ever been in a stove boat?’
‘你曾经是这样的，是吗？我看你不是楠塔基特人——坐过炉船吗？

‘No, Sir, I never have.’
“不，先生，我从来没有。”

‘Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say—eh?
“我敢说，你对捕鲸一无所知——呃？

‘Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn. I’ve been several voyages in the merchant service, and I think that—’
“没什么，先生；但我毫不怀疑我很快就会学会。我曾多次航行于商船服务中，我认为——”

‘Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that leg?—I’ll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of the marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose now ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships. But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?—it looks a little suspicious, don’t it, eh?—Hast not been a pirate, hast thou?—Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?—Dost not think of murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?’
‘商业服务见鬼去吧。别跟我说那种行话。看到那条腿了吗？——如果你再跟我谈起行军服务，我就把那条腿从你的船尾拿开。确实是Marchant服务！我想现在你们对在这些商船上服役感到相当自豪。但侥幸！伙计，是什么让你想去捕鲸，嗯？——看起来有点可疑，不是吗？——你不是海盗，不是吗？——你没有抢劫你的上任船长，不是吗？——你出海后就没有想过谋杀军官吗？

I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask of these half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rather distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the Vineyard.
我抗议我对这些事情的清白。我看到，在这些半幽默的暗示的面具下，这位老海员，作为一个与世隔绝的贵格会楠塔基特人，充满了他的狭隘偏见，并且对所有外国人相当不信任，除非他们来自科德角或葡萄园。

‘But what takes thee a-whaling? I want to know that before I think of shipping ye.’
“但是你为什么要捕鲸呢？在我考虑运送你们之前我想知道这一点。

‘Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see the world.’
“好吧，先生，我想看看什么是捕鲸。我想看看这个世界。

‘Want to see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?’
“想看看什么是捕鲸吗？你们有没有注意到亚哈船长？

‘Who is Captain Ahab, sir?’
“先生，亚哈船长是谁？”

‘Aye, aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship.’
‘是啊，是啊，我也是这么想的。亚哈船长是这艘船的船长。

‘I am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself.’
‘那我错了。我以为我是在跟船长本人说话。

‘Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg—that’s who ye are speaking to, young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew. We are part owners and agents. But as I was going to say, if thou wantest to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out. Clap eye on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one leg.’
“你是在跟法勒船长说话——年轻人，你就是在跟他说话。”我和比勒达船长有责任亲眼目睹裴阔德号为航行做好准备，并满足她的所有需求，包括船员。我们是部分所有者和代理人。但正如我要说的，如果你想知道什么是捕鲸，正如你所说的那样，我可以让你在将自己束缚于捕鲸之前找到它，而不是退出。年轻人，看看亚哈船长，你会发现他只有一条腿。

‘What do you mean, sir? Was the other one lost by a whale?’
‘您是什么意思，先生？另一条是被鲸鱼弄丢了吗？

‘Lost by a whale! Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewed up, crunched by the monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a boat!—ah, ah!’
‘被鲸鱼迷失了！年轻人，靠近我一点：它被吞噬、咀嚼、嘎吱作响，被最可怕的帕尔玛塞特（parmacacete）咬碎了！——啊，啊！”

I was a little alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at the hearty grief in his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I could, ‘What you say is no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know there was any peculiar ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed I might have inferred as much from the simple fact of the accident.’
我对他的精力感到有点震惊，也许也对他最后感叹中的衷心悲伤感到有点感动，但我尽可能平静地说：“您所说的无疑是足够正确的，先生；但我怎么知道那条鲸鱼有什么特殊的凶猛性，尽管我确实可以从事故的简单事实中推断出这一点。

‘Look ye now, young man, thy lungs are a sort of soft, d’ye see; thou dost not talk shark a bit. SURE, ye’ve been to sea before now; sure of that?’
“现在看看，年轻人，你的肺有点软，你瞧；你根本不跟鲨鱼说话。当然，你以前出过海；确定吗？

‘Sir,’ said I, ‘I thought I told you that I had been four voyages in the merchant—’
“先生，”我说，“我想我已经告诉过你，我已经在商船里四次航行了——”

‘Hard down out of that! Mind what I said about the marchant service—don’t aggravate me—I won’t have it. But let us understand each other. I have given thee a hint about what whaling is; do ye yet feel inclined for it?’
‘很难摆脱这个！请注意我所说的关于市场服务的内容——别激怒我——我不会接受的。但让我们互相理解吧。我已经给了你关于什么是捕鲸的提示；你还想这么做吗？

‘I do, sir.’
“我愿意，先生。”

‘Very good. Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale’s throat, and then jump after it? Answer, quick!’
'非常好。现在，你是那个能把鱼叉插入活鲸鱼喉咙，然后跳下去追它的人吗？回答，快！’

‘I am, sir, if it should be positively indispensable to do so; not to be got rid of, that is; which I don’t take to be the fact.’
“我是，先生，如果确实有必要这样做的话；不被摆脱，也就是说；我不认为这是事实。

‘Good again. Now then, thou not only wantest to go a-whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to go in order to see the world? Was not that what ye said? I thought so. Well then, just step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and then back to me and tell me what ye see there.’
‘又好。那么，你不仅想去捕鲸，体验一下什么是捕鲸，还想去看看这个世界吗？这不是你们说的吗？我是这么想的。那么，就往前走一步，从风雨弓上看一眼，然后回到我身边，告诉我你在那里看到了什么。

For a moment I stood a little puzzled by this curious request, not knowing exactly how to take it, whether humorously or in earnest. But concentrating all his crow’s feet into one scowl, Captain Peleg started me on the errand.
一时之间，我对这个奇怪的请求感到有点困惑，不知道到底该如何接受它，无论是幽默的还是认真的。但皮勒船长把所有的鱼尾纹都集中到了皱眉上，开始让我去做这件事。

Going forward and glancing over the weather bow, I perceived that the ship swinging to her anchor with the flood-tide, was now obliquely pointing towards the open ocean. The prospect was unlimited, but exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the slightest variety that I could see.
向前望去，我看到那艘船随着涨潮而抛锚，现在正倾斜地指向公海。前景是无限的，但极其单调和令人生畏。我所看到的一点也没有。

‘Well, what’s the report?’ said Peleg when I came back; ‘what did ye see?’
“嗯，报告是什么？”当我回来时，法勒问道。 “你看到了什么？”

‘Not much,’ I replied—‘nothing but water; considerable horizon though, and there’s a squall coming up, I think.’
“不多，”我回答道——“除了水什么都没有；”不过，地平线相当长，我认为暴风雨即将来临。

‘Well, what does thou think then of seeing the world? Do ye wish to go round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can’t ye see the world where you stand?’
“那么，你对于看到这个世界有什么看法呢？你们还想绕过合恩角去看看更多的东西吗？你看不到你所站的世界吗？

I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and the Pequod was as good a ship as any—I thought the best—and all this I now repeated to Peleg. Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness to ship me.
我有点震惊，但我必须去捕鲸，而且我愿意；培阔德号是一艘很好的船——我认为是最好的——现在我向法勒重复了这一切。他见我这么坚决，就表示愿意送我。

‘And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off,’ he added—‘come along with ye.’ And so saying, he led the way below deck into the cabin.
“你最好立即在文件上签字，”他补充道，“跟你们一起去吧。”说着，他领着下甲板走进了船舱。

Seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and surprising figure. It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other shares, as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd of old annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each owning about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail or two in the ship. People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved state stocks bringing in good interest.
在我看来，坐在横梁上的是一个最不寻常、最令人惊讶的人物。原来是比尔达船长，他和佩莱格船长是这艘船的最大所有者之一；其他股份，就像这些港口有时的情况一样，由一群年金领取人持有；寡妇、孤儿和大法官监护；每一个都拥有大约一个木头、一英尺木板、或者船上一两颗钉子的价值。楠塔基特岛的人们将资金投资于捕鲸船，就像投资经批准的国有股票一样，可以带来丰厚的收益。

Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers, was a Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified by things altogether alien and heterogeneous. For some of these same Quakers are the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters. They are fighting Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.
现在，比尔达德和法勒格以及许多其他楠塔基特人一样，都是贵格会教徒，该岛最初是由该教派定居的。直到今天，这里的居民普遍仍保留着贵格会的独特性，只不过被完全陌生和异质的事物所不同寻常地改变了而已。对于其中一些贵格会教徒来说，他们是所有水手和捕鲸者中最血腥的。他们正在与贵格会教徒作战；他们是怀有复仇心的贵格会教徒。

So that there are instances among them of men, who, named with Scripture names—a singularly common fashion on the island—and in childhood naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and thou of the Quaker idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless adventure of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman. And when these things unite in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain and a ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion of many long night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath constellations never seen here at the north, been led to think untraditionally and independently; receiving all nature’s sweet or savage impressions fresh from her own virgin voluntary and confiding breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from accidental advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language—that man makes one in a whole nation’s census—a mighty pageant creature, formed for noble tragedies. Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically regarded, if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems a half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature. For all men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness. Be sure of this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease. But, as yet we have not to do with such an one, but with quite another; and still a man, who, if indeed peculiar, it only results again from another phase of the Quaker, modified by individual circumstances.
因此，他们当中有一些人，用圣经的名字来命名——这在岛上是一种非常普遍的时尚——并且在童年时自然地吸收了贵格会习语中庄严而戏剧性的“e”和“thou”；然而，从他们后来的生活中大胆、无畏、无边的冒险中，奇怪地与这些未被超越的特性、一千种大胆的性格融合在一起，与斯堪的纳维亚海王或诗意的异教罗马人不相上下。当这些东西结合在一个拥有极其优越的自然力量、球形大脑和笨重心脏的人身上时，他就会成为一个人。他也曾在最偏远的水域和在北方从未见过的星座下进行过许多次漫长的夜间守夜，从而产生了非传统和独立的思考；从她自己处女自愿和信任的乳房中接收所有大自然的甜蜜或野蛮的新鲜印象，从而主要地，但在偶然的优势的帮助下，学习一种大胆而紧张的崇高语言——男人在整个国家的人口普查中创造了一种强大的语言盛大的生物，为高贵的悲剧而生。这也根本不会影响他，戏剧性地认为，无论是由于出生还是其他环境，他的本性深处似乎有一种半故意的、压倒性的病态。因为所有悲剧性的伟大人物都是通过某种病态而变得如此的。年轻的雄心啊，要确信这一点，所有凡人的伟大都不过是疾病。但是，到目前为止，我们还没有涉及到这样的一个，而是完全是另一个。他仍然是一个人，即使确实很奇特，那也只是贵格会的另一个阶段的结果，并被个人情况所改变。

Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do, retired whaleman. But unlike Captain Peleg—who cared not a rush for what are called serious things, and indeed deemed those self-same serious things the veriest of all trifles—Captain Bildad had not only been originally educated according to the strictest sect of Nantucket Quakerism, but all his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many unclad, lovely island creatures, round the Horn—all that had not moved this native born Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of his vest. Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of common consistency about worthy Captain Peleg. Though refusing, from conscientious scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself had illimitably invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in the contemplative evening of his days, the pious Bildad reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not seem to concern him much, and very probably he had long since come to the sage and sensible conclusion that a man’s religion is one thing, and this practical world quite another. This world pays dividends. Rising from a little cabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a broad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and captain, and finally a ship owner; Bildad, as I hinted before, had concluded his adventurous career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age of sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his well-earned income.
和 Peleg 船长一样，Bildad 船长也是一位富裕的退休捕鲸人。但与皮勒船长不同的是，皮勒船长并不关心所谓严肃的事情，事实上，他认为那些同样严肃的事情是最琐碎的事情，比尔达船长不仅最初接受的是楠塔基特贵格会最严格的教派的教育，而且他后来的所有海洋生活，以及在非洲之角周围看到的许多赤身露体的可爱岛屿生物——所有这些都没有让这位土生土长的贵格会教徒有一丝一毫的感动，也没有改变他背心的一个角度。尽管如此，尽管如此，可敬的法莱格船长还是缺乏共同的一致性。尽管出于良心的顾虑，他拒绝携带武器对抗陆地侵略者，但他自己却无限制地入侵了大西洋和太平洋；尽管他是人类流血的死敌，但他仍然穿着笔挺的外套，将一桶又一桶的利维坦血溅了出来。现在，在虔诚的比勒达沉思的夜晚，他是如何在回忆中调和这些事情的，我不知道。但这似乎并没有让他太在意，很可能他早就得出了明智而明智的结论：人的宗教信仰是一回事，而这个现实世界则完全是另一回事。这个世界会带来红利。从一个穿着单调的短衣服的船舱小男孩，到穿着宽大的鲥鱼腹背心的标枪手；从那以后成为船长、大副、船长，最后成为船主；正如我之前暗示的那样，比尔达德在六十岁时完全退出了活跃的生活，结束了他的冒险生涯，并将余下的日子奉献给了安静地领取他来之不易的收入。

Now, Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of being an incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard task-master. They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a curious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was certainly rather hard-hearted, to say the least. He never used to swear, though, at his men, they said; but somehow he got an inordinate quantity of cruel, unmitigated hard work out of them. When Bildad was a chief-mate, to have his drab-coloured eye intently looking at you, made you feel completely nervous, till you could clutch something—a hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work like mad, at something or other, never mind what. Indolence and idleness perished before him. His own person was the exact embodiment of his utilitarian character. On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare flesh, no superfluous beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it, like the worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat.
现在，我很遗憾地说，比尔达德被认为是一个不可救药的老帅哥，而在他出海的日子里，他又是一个刻薄、严厉的工头。他们在楠塔基特岛告诉我，虽然这确实看起来很奇怪，但当他驾驶老卡特古特捕鲸人航行时，他的船员回到家后，大部分都被抬上岸去医院，他们筋疲力尽，疲惫不堪。对于一个虔诚的人，尤其是贵格会教徒来说，至少可以说，他的心肠确实相当铁石心肠。不过，他们说，他从来不咒骂他的手下。但不知何故，他从他们那里得到了过多的残酷、不折不扣的艰苦工作。当比尔达还是大副时，他那双土褐色的眼睛专注地看着你，会让你感到非常紧张，直到你能抓住某样东西——一把锤子或一把马林鱼钉，然后疯狂地去工作，做某事或某事。其他的，不管是什么。懒惰和懒散在他面前消失了。他本人就是他功利性格的具体体现。他修长而憔悴的身体上没有多余的肉，没有多余的胡须，下巴上有一个柔软的、简洁的绒毛，就像他那顶破旧的宽边帽上的绒毛一样。

Such, then, was the person that I saw seated on the transom when I followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin. The space between the decks was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old Bildad, who always sat so, and never leaned, and this to save his coat tails. His broad-brim was placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed; his drab vesture was buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he seemed absorbed in reading from a ponderous volume.
当我跟着皮勒船长走进船舱时，我看到的就是坐在横梁上的那个人。甲板之间的空间很小；老比勒达笔直地坐在那里，他总是这么坐着，从不倾斜，这是为了保住他的外套下摆。他的宽边放在他身边；他的双腿僵硬地交叉着。他的土褐色外衣的扣子一直扣到下巴。他鼻子上戴着眼镜，似乎正在全神贯注地阅读一本厚重的书。

‘Bildad,’ cried Captain Peleg, ‘at it again, Bildad, eh? Ye have been studying those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to my certain knowledge. How far ye got, Bildad?’
“比勒达，”法勒船长喊道，“又来了，比勒达，是吗？据我所知，在过去的三十年里，你们一直在研究这些经文。比勒达，你走了多远？

As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate, Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.
比尔达似乎早已习惯了他的老船友的这种亵渎的谈话，没有注意到他现在的不敬，静静地抬起头，看到我，又询问地看了一眼法勒。

‘He says he’s our man, Bildad,’ said Peleg, ‘he wants to ship.’
“他说他是我们的人，比勒达，”法勒说道，“他想发货。”

‘Dost thee?’ said Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning round to me.
“你是吗？”比勒达转向我，语气空洞地说。

‘I dost,’ said I unconsciously, he was so intense a Quaker.
“我愿意，”我无意识地说，他是一位非常热心的贵格会教徒。

‘What do ye think of him, Bildad?’ said Peleg.
“比勒达，你觉得他怎么样？”法勒问道。

‘He’ll do,’ said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at his book in a mumbling tone quite audible.
“他会的，”比尔达看着我说道，然后继续用清晰可闻的咕哝声拼读他的书。

I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially as Peleg, his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer. But I said nothing, only looking round me sharply. Peleg now threw open a chest, and drawing forth the ship’s articles, placed pen and ink before him, and seated himself at a little table. I began to think it was high time to settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the voyage. I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no wages; but all hands, including the captain, received certain shares of the profits called lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the degree of importance pertaining to the respective duties of the ship’s company. I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own lay would not be very large; but considering that I was used to the sea, could steer a ship, splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275th lay—that is, the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage, whatever that might eventually amount to. And though the 275th lay was what they call a rather LONG LAY, yet it was better than nothing; and if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years’ beef and board, for which I would not have to pay one stiver.
我认为他是我见过的最奇怪的老贵格会教徒，尤其是当他的朋友和老船友佩勒格看起来如此狂妄时。但我什么也没说，只是锐利地环顾四周。法勒现在打开一个箱子，拿出船上的物品，把钢笔和墨水放在他面前，然后在一张小桌子旁坐下。我开始认为是时候与自己协商一下我愿意为这次航行接受什么条件了。我已经知道捕鲸业是不付工资的。但是，包括船长在内的所有船员都获得了一定份额的利润，称为“外行工资”，并且这些外行工资与船舶公司各自职责的重要性程度成比例。我也意识到，作为捕鲸新手，我自己的产地不会很大；但考虑到我习惯了海上，可以驾驶船只，拼接绳索等等，我毫不怀疑，从我所听到的情况来看，我至少应该获得第 275 次培训，即第 275 部分。航程的明确净收益，无论最终金额是多少。虽然第 275 下是他们所说的相当长的一下，但总比没有好；如果我们航行顺利的话，我几乎可以支付我在船上穿的衣服的费用，更不用说我三年的牛肉和伙食了，我不需要为此付一分钱。

It might be thought that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely fortune—and so it was, a very poor way indeed. But I am one of those that never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the world is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at this grim sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not have been surprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a broad-shouldered make.
人们可能会认为这是一种积累王室财富的糟糕方法——事实也确实如此，确实是一种非常糟糕的方法。但我是那些从不考虑王室财富的人之一，当我忍受雷霆云的这种严峻迹象时，如果世界准备好招待我，我会感到非常满意。总的来说，我认为第 275 次是公平的事情，但考虑到我是宽肩膀的，如果我被提供第 200 次，我也不会感到惊讶。

But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little distrustful about receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore, I had heard something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony Bildad; how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod, therefore the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly the whole management of the ship’s affairs to these two. And I did not know but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about shipping hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod, quite at home there in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his own fireside. Now while Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his jack-knife, old Bildad, to my no small surprise, considering that he was such an interested party in these proceedings; Bildad never heeded us, but went on mumbling to himself out of his book, ‘LAY not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth—’
但有一件事让我对获得丰厚的利润感到有点怀疑：在岸上，我听说了佩勒船长和他不负责任的老朋友比勒达的一些事情；他们是“裴阔德”号的主要所有人，因此是其他更微不足道、分散的船主，几乎将船舶事务的全部管理权交给了这两个人。我不知道那个吝啬的老比勒达对于船工可能有什么大话要说，特别是当我现在发现他在裴阔德号上时，他在船舱里很自在，就像在读自己的圣经一样炉边。现在，当法勒徒劳地试图用他的折叠刀修理钢笔时，老比勒达让我感到不小的惊讶，因为考虑到他对这些过程非常感兴趣。比勒达根本不理睬我们，而是继续在书里自言自语道：“不要为自己积攒财宝在地上，那里有蛀虫——”

‘Well, Captain Bildad,’ interrupted Peleg, ‘what d’ye say, what lay shall we give this young man?’
“好吧，比勒达船长，”法勒打断道，“你说呢？我们该给这个年轻人怎样的安排呢？”

‘Thou knowest best,’ was the sepulchral reply, ‘the seven hundred and seventy-seventh wouldn’t be too much, would it?—‘where moth and rust do corrupt, but LAY—‘’
“你最清楚，”那阴森的回答是，“七百七十七也不会太多，不是吗？——‘飞蛾和铁锈会腐蚀的地方，但是躺——’”

LAY, indeed, thought I, and such a lay! the seven hundred and seventy-seventh! Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I, for one, shall not LAY up many LAYS here below, where moth and rust do corrupt. It was an exceedingly LONG LAY that, indeed; and though from the magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet the slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and seventy-seven is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make a TEENTH of it, you will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and seventy-seventh part of a farthing is a good deal less than seven hundred and seventy-seven gold doubloons; and so I thought at the time.
我想，的确是躺着，而且是这样的躺着！七百七十七！好吧，老比勒达，你决定我不会在下面埋下很多东西，因为那里有虫子和铁锈会腐蚀。确实，这是一首极其漫长的歌曲；虽然从这个数字的大小来看，一开始可能会欺骗一个乡下人，但只要稍微考虑一下就会发现，虽然七百七十七是一个相当大的数字，但是，当你把它变成十分之一时，你就会发现，那么我说，一文的七百七十七分比七百七十七金达布隆要少得多。我当时也是这么想的。

‘Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,’ cried Peleg, ‘thou dost not want to swindle this young man! he must have more than that.’
“哎呀，睁大你的眼睛吧，比勒达，”法勒喊道，“你不会想欺骗这个年轻人吧！他一定拥有更多。

‘Seven hundred and seventy-seventh,’ again said Bildad, without lifting his eyes; and then went on mumbling—‘for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.’
“七百七十七。”比勒达头也不抬地又说道。然后继续喃喃自语——“因为你的财宝在哪里，你的心也在那里。”

‘I am going to put him down for the three hundredth,’ said Peleg, ‘do ye hear that, Bildad! The three hundredth lay, I say.’
“我要把他打倒三百分之一，”法勒说道，“你听到了吗，比勒达！我说的是第三百个躺着。

Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly towards him said, ‘Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must consider the duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship—widows and orphans, many of them—and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those orphans. The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.’
比勒达放下书本，庄严地转向他说：“法勒船长，你有一颗慷慨的心；但你必须考虑到你对这艘船的其他船主——寡妇和孤儿，其中许多人——所负的责任，如果我们过多地奖励这个年轻人的劳动，我们可能会从那些寡妇和孤儿那里夺走面包。七百七十七号已躺下，法勒船长。

‘Thou Bildad!’ roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the cabin. ‘Blast ye, Captain Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these matters, I would afore now had a conscience to lug about that would be heavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round Cape Horn.’
“你这个比勒达！”法莱格咆哮道，他猛地站起来，在小屋里叽叽喳喳地走来走去。 “该死，比勒达船长，如果我在这些事情上听从了你的建议，我现在就会有良心了，它的重量足以击沉有史以来绕合恩角航行的最大的船。”

‘Captain Peleg,’ said Bildad steadily, ‘thy conscience may be drawing ten inches of water, or ten fathoms, I can’t tell; but as thou art still an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thy conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee foundering down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.’
“法勒船长，”比勒达坚定地说，“你的良心可能在抽十英寸深的水，或者十寻英寻，我不知道；但法勒船长，你仍然是一个不知悔改的人，我非常担心你的良心有漏洞；最终会让你沉入火坑，法勒船长。

‘Fiery pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye insult me. It’s an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that he’s bound to hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again to me, and start my soul-bolts, but I’ll—I’ll—yes, I’ll swallow a live goat with all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-coloured son of a wooden gun—a straight wake with ye!’
‘火坑！火热的深坑！你侮辱我，伙计；你们侮辱了我，超越了所有的自然风度。告诉任何人类他注定要下地狱，这是一种强烈的愤怒。侥幸和火焰！比尔达，对我再说一遍，然后开始我的灵魂之箭，但是我会——我会——是的，我会吞下一只活山羊，连他的毛和角都长着。从小屋里出来，你们这些摇摇晃晃的、土褐色的木枪之子——直接叫醒你们！

As he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but with a marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him.
当他大声喊出这句话时，他向比勒达冲去，但比勒达以惊人的倾斜、滑动的速度躲开了他。

Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal and responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily commanded, I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who, I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened wrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on the transom very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention of withdrawing. He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways. As for Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no more left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched a little as if still nervously agitated. ‘Whew!’ he whistled at last—‘the squall’s gone off to leeward, I think. Bildad, thou used to be good at sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye. My jack-knife here needs the grindstone. That’s he; thank ye, Bildad. Now then, my young man, Ishmael’s thy name, didn’t ye say? Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael, for the three hundredth lay.’
我对这艘船的两位主要负责人之间的可怕爆发感到震惊，并感到有点想放弃乘坐一艘如此可疑的拥有和暂时指挥的船只航行的所有想法，我从门旁边退开，给比勒达出口，我毫不怀疑，他急于在法勒的愤怒苏醒之前消失。但出乎我意料的是，他又很安静地坐到了横梁上，似乎没有丝毫要退出的意思。他似乎已经习惯了顽固不化的法勒和他的行事方式。至于法莱格，在发泄完怒气之后，他身上似乎已经没有了余力，他也像羔羊一样坐下了，尽管他有点抽搐，好像仍然紧张不安。 “哇！”他最后吹了一声口哨——“我想，暴风雨已经转向下风了。”比勒达，你以前很擅长磨矛，修一下那支笔吧。我这里的折刀需要磨石。那个她;谢谢你，比尔达。那么，我的年轻人，以实玛利是你的名字，你不是说过吗？那么，以实玛利，你就到这里来，第三百层。

‘Captain Peleg,’ said I, ‘I have a friend with me who wants to ship too—shall I bring him down to-morrow?’
“法勒船长，”我说，“我有一个朋友也想上船——我明天把他带下来吗？”

‘To be sure,’ said Peleg. ‘Fetch him along, and we’ll look at him.’
“当然，”法勒说。 “把他带过来，我们去看看他。”

‘What lay does he want?’ groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in which he had again been burying himself.
“他想要什么？”比勒达呻吟着，从他再次埋头于书中的那本书中抬起头来。

‘Oh! never thee mind about that, Bildad,’ said Peleg. ‘Has he ever whaled it any?’ turning to me.
'哦！别介意这个，比勒达。”法勒说道。 “他曾经捕鲸过吗？”转向我。

‘Killed more whales than I can count, Captain Peleg.’
“杀死的鲸鱼多得我数不过来，皮勒船长。”

‘Well, bring him along then.’
“好吧，那就带他一起去吧。”

And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I had done a good morning’s work, and that the Pequod was the identical ship that Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.
签署文件后，我就出发了；毫无疑问，我已经完成了早上的工作，而且裴廓德号就是约乔提供的那艘船，载着奎奎格和我绕海角航行。

But I had not proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the Captain with whom I was to sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in many cases, a whale-ship will be completely fitted out, and receive all her crew on board, ere the captain makes himself visible by arriving to take command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged, and the shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief, that if the captain have a family, or any absorbing concernment of that sort, he does not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but leaves her to the owners till all is ready for sea. However, it is always as well to have a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his hands. Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab was to be found.
但我还没有走多远，我就开始想起要和我一起航行的船长却一直没有出现在我的面前。事实上，在许多情况下，在船长到达指挥位置之前，捕鲸船就会完全装备完毕，并接收所有船员上船；因为有时这些航程是如此漫长，而在家里的上岸时间又是如此短暂，以至于如果船长有家人，或者有任何类似的令人着迷的关心，他就不会为停泊在港口的船操心太多，而是让她去照顾她。业主，直到一切准备好出海。不过，在不可挽回地把自己交到他手中之前，先看他一眼总是好的。我转身向法勒船长搭话，询问在哪里可以找到亚哈船长。

‘And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab? It’s all right enough; thou art shipped.’
“你想要亚哈船长做什么？没关系；你已经发货了。

‘Yes, but I should like to see him.’
“是的，但我想见他。”

‘But I don’t think thou wilt be able to at present. I don’t know exactly what’s the matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort of sick, and yet he don’t look so. In fact, he ain’t sick; but no, he isn’t well either. Any how, young man, he won’t always see me, so I don’t suppose he will thee. He’s a queer man, Captain Ahab—so some think—but a good one. Oh, thou’lt like him well enough; no fear, no fear. He’s a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab; doesn’t speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may well listen. Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab’s above the common; Ahab’s been in colleges, as well as ‘mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than whales. His lance! aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle! Oh! he ain’t Captain Bildad; no, and he ain’t Captain Peleg; HE’S AHAB, boy; and Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!’
“但我认为你目前做不到。”我不知道他到底怎么了；但他一直紧守在屋子里；有点病态，但他看上去却并非如此。事实上，他没有生病；他没有生病。但不，他也不好。无论如何，年轻人，他不会总是看到我，所以我想他也不会看到你。亚哈船长是个奇怪的人——有些人这么认为——但他是个好人。哦，你已经很喜欢他了；没有恐惧，没有恐惧。他是一个伟大的、不敬虔的、像神一样的人，亚哈船长；话不多；但是，当他说话时，你可能会听。请注意，请预先警告；亚哈超凡脱俗；亚哈上过大学，也曾“在食人族中”；习惯于比海浪更深的奇迹；他用炽热的长矛瞄准了比鲸鱼更强大、更陌生的敌人。他的长矛！是的，这是我们岛上最敏锐、最确定的！哦！他不是比勒达船长；不，他不是法莱格船长；他是亚哈，孩子；你知道，古代的亚哈是一位加冕的国王！

‘And a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?’
‘而且是一个非常卑鄙的人。当那个邪恶的国王被杀的时候，狗们没有舔他的血吗？

‘Come hither to me—hither, hither,’ said Peleg, with a significance in his eye that almost startled me. ‘Look ye, lad; never say that on board the Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself. ‘Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the old squaw Tistig, at Gayhead, said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And, perhaps, other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to warn thee. It’s a lie. I know Captain Ahab well; I’ve sailed with him as mate years ago; I know what he is—a good man—not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but a swearing good man—something like me—only there’s a good deal more of him. Aye, aye, I know that he was never very jolly; and I know that on the passage home, he was a little out of his mind for a spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that about, as any one might see. I know, too, that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he’s been a kind of moody—desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will all pass off. And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man, it’s better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one. So good-bye to thee—and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to have a wicked name. Besides, my boy, he has a wife—not three voyages wedded—a sweet, resigned girl. Think of that; by that sweet girl that old man has a child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab? No, no, my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his humanities!’
“到我这里来——这里，这里，”法勒说道，他眼中的意味让我几乎吃了一惊。 ‘看，小伙子；永远不要在裴阔德号上说这种话。永远不要在任何地方说出来。亚哈船长没有透露自己的名字。 “这是他疯狂的寡妇母亲的愚蠢无知的突发奇想，她在他只有十二个月大时就去世了。然而，盖伊黑德的老妇人蒂斯蒂格说，这个名字在某种程度上被证明是有预言性的。也许其他像她一样的傻瓜也会告诉你同样的事情。我想警告你。这是一个谎言。我很了解亚哈船长；几年前我曾与他一起航行过；我知道他是什么——一个好人——不是一个像比尔达那样虔诚的好人，而是一个发誓的好人——就像我一样——只是他比他多得多。是的，是的，我知道他从来都不是很快乐。我知道，在回家的路上，他有一段时间有点精神错乱。但正如任何人都可能看到的那样，正是他流血的残肢上剧烈的刺痛才导致了这种情况。我也知道，自从他上次航行中被那条该死的鲸鱼失去了一条腿以来，他就变得情绪化了——绝望的情绪化，有时甚至是野蛮的；但这一切都会过去。最后，让我告诉你并向你保证，年轻人，与一位喜怒无常的好船长一起航行比与一位爱笑的坏船长一起航行要好。再见了，亚哈船长并没有错，因为他碰巧有一个邪恶的名字。此外，我的孩子，他有一个妻子——不是三次航行结婚的——一个可爱、顺从的女孩。想一想；那个可爱的女孩，那个老人有一个孩子：那么你们认为亚哈身上会有任何彻底的、无可救药的伤害吗？不，不，我的孩子；受打击，该死，如果他是，亚哈有他的人文精神！

As I walked away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been incidentally revealed to me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness concerning him. And somehow, at the time, I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don’t know what, unless it was the cruel loss of his leg. And yet I also felt a strange awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at all describe, was not exactly awe; I do not know what it was. But I felt it; and it did not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at what seemed like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then. However, my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for the present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
当我走开的时候，我心里充满了沉思；偶然向我透露的关于亚哈船长的事，让我对他充满了某种莫名的痛苦。不知何故，当时我对他感到同情和悲伤，但我不知道是因为什么，除非是他残酷地失去了一条腿。但我也对他产生了一种奇怪的敬畏感。但那种我根本无法形容的敬畏，并不完全是敬畏。我不知道那是什么。但我感觉到了；但这并没有使我对他产生厌恶感。尽管我对他身上看似神秘的东西感到不耐烦，因为我当时对他的了解是那么不完美。然而，我的思绪最终转向了其他方向，因此目前黑暗的亚哈就从我的脑海中消失了。

Chapter 17
第17章

The Ramadan.
斋月。

As Queequeg’s Ramadan, or Fasting and Humiliation, was to continue all day, I did not choose to disturb him till towards night-fall; for I cherish the greatest respect towards everybody’s religious obligations, never mind how comical, and could not find it in my heart to undervalue even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or those other creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of footmanism quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate possessions yet owned and rented in his name.
由于魁魁格的斋月（即斋戒和羞辱）要持续一整天，所以我没有选择在夜幕降临之前打扰他。因为我对每个人的宗教义务都怀有最大的尊重，无论多么滑稽，而且我内心也无法发现低估哪怕是一群崇拜毒菌的蚂蚁；或者是我们地球某些地方的其他生物，他们的步兵主义程度在其他星球上是前所未有的，仅仅因为以他的名义拥有和租赁的过多财产，他们就在已故土地所有者的躯干前鞠躬。

I say, we good Presbyterian Christians should be charitable in these things, and not fancy ourselves so vastly superior to other mortals, pagans and what not, because of their half-crazy conceits on these subjects. There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan;—but what of that? Queequeg thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be content; and there let him rest. All our arguing with him would not avail; let him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all—Presbyterians and Pagans alike—for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and sadly need mending.
我说，我们优秀的长老会基督徒应该在这些事情上保持仁慈，而不是因为其他凡人、异教徒等在这些问题上有半疯狂的自负，就认为自己比他们优越得多。现在，魁魁格肯定对约乔和他的斋月抱有最荒谬的想法；——但那又怎样呢？我想奎魁格认为他知道自己在做什么；但他知道自己在做什么。他看上去很满足；让他在那里休息。我们与他的所有争论都无济于事。让他去吧，我说：上天怜悯我们所有人——长老会教徒和异教徒——因为我们所有人的头部都不知何故可怕地破裂了，不幸的是需要修补。

Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances and rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but no answer. I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside. ‘Queequeg,’ said I softly through the key-hole:—all silent. ‘I say, Queequeg! why don’t you speak? It’s I—Ishmael.’ But all remained still as before. I began to grow alarmed. I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through the key-hole; but the door opening into an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only see part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothing more. I was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden shaft of Queequeg’s harpoon, which the landlady the evening previous had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber. That’s strange, thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here, and no possible mistake.
傍晚时分，当我确信他所有的表演和仪式都必须结束时，我走到他的房间，敲了敲门。但没有答案。我试图打开它，但它被锁在里面了。 “魁魁格，”我通过钥匙孔轻声说道：——一片寂静。 “我说，魁魁格！你为什么不说话？是我——以实玛利。”但一切都像以前一样一动不动。我开始警觉起来。我给了他如此充足的时间；我想他可能是中风了。我从钥匙孔往里看；但门开向房间的一个奇怪的角落，钥匙孔的前景只是一个弯曲而险恶的角落。我只能看到床尾板的一部分和墙的一条线，但仅此而已。我惊讶地发现奎魁格鱼叉的木杆靠在墙上，这是前一天晚上我们登上房间之前女房东从他那里拿走的。我想，这很奇怪。但无论如何，既然鱼叉就在那边，而他很少或从来没有带着它出国，所以他一定在里面，不可能出错。

‘Queequeg!—Queequeg!’—all still. Something must have happened. Apoplexy! I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted. Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first person I met—the chamber-maid. ‘La! la!’ she cried, ‘I thought something must be the matter. I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door was locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it’s been just so silent ever since. But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your baggage in for safe keeping. La! la, ma’am!—Mistress! murder! Mrs. Hussey! apoplexy!’—and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I following.
“魁魁格！——魁魁格！”——一切都静止了。肯定发生了什么事情。中风了！我试图破门而入，但没有成功。但它顽强地抵抗着。我跑下楼梯，迅速向我遇到的第一个人——女服务员表达了我的怀疑。 ‘啦！啦！”她喊道，“我想一定出了什么问题。早餐后我去铺床，门锁着；也听不见老鼠的声音；从那以后就一直如此沉默。但我想，也许你们都已经出发了，并将行李锁在里面妥善保管。啦！啦，女士！——太太！谋杀！赫西夫人！中风了！”——伴随着这些哭声，她跑向厨房，我跟在后面。

Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a vinegar-cruet in the other, having just broken away from the occupation of attending to the castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.
赫西夫人很快就出现了，她一手拿着芥末罐，另一只手拿着醋瓶，她刚刚摆脱了照顾脚轮的工作，同时责骂她的小黑人男孩。

‘Wood-house!’ cried I, ‘which way to it? Run for God’s sake, and fetch something to pry open the door—the axe!—the axe! he’s had a stroke; depend upon it!’—and so saying I was unmethodically rushing up stairs again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey interposed the mustard-pot and vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her countenance.
“木屋！”我喊道，“走哪条路？看在上帝的份上，赶紧跑，拿个东西来撬门——斧头！——斧头！他中风了；就靠它了！”——说着，我又两手空空地毫无条理地冲上楼梯，赫西太太介入了芥末罐和醋瓶，以及她整张脸。

‘What’s the matter with you, young man?’
“你怎么了，年轻人？”

‘Get the axe! For God’s sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry it open!’
‘拿斧子来！看在上帝的份上，快去找医生吧，找个人，我来撬开它！”

‘Look here,’ said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet, so as to have one hand free; ‘look here; are you talking about prying open any of my doors?’—and with that she seized my arm. ‘What’s the matter with you? What’s the matter with you, shipmate?’
“看这里，”女房东说着，迅速放下醋瓶，腾出一只手。 '看这里;你是在说撬开我的门吗？”说完，她抓住了我的手臂。 ‘你怎么了？你怎么了，船友？

In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understand the whole case. Unconsciously clapping the vinegar-cruet to one side of her nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed—‘No! I haven’t seen it since I put it there.’ Running to a little closet under the landing of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg’s harpoon was missing. ‘He’s killed himself,’ she cried. ‘It’s unfort’nate Stiggs done over again there goes another counterpane—God pity his poor mother!—it will be the ruin of my house. Has the poor lad a sister? Where’s that girl?—there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint me a sign, with—‘no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;’—might as well kill both birds at once. Kill? The Lord be merciful to his ghost! What’s that noise there? You, young man, avast there!’
我以尽可能平静但迅速的方式让她了解整个案件。她下意识地将醋瓶拍到鼻子一侧，沉思片刻。然后大声喊道——‘不！自从我把它放在那里之后，我就再也没有见过它。”她跑到楼梯平台下的一个小壁橱里，朝里面看了一眼，然后回来告诉我奎魁格的鱼叉不见了。 “他自杀了，”她哭道。 “不幸的是，斯蒂格斯又做了一遍，另一块床罩消失了——上帝怜悯他可怜的母亲！——这将毁掉我的房子。”这个可怜的小伙子有妹妹吗？那个女孩在哪里？——贝蒂，去画家斯纳尔斯那里，让他给我画一个牌子，上面写着——“这里不允许自杀，客厅里禁止吸烟”；——不如立即杀死两只鸟。杀？愿主怜悯他的鬼魂！那里有什么噪音？你，年轻人，真是太棒了！

And running up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force open the door.
她追上我，当我再次试图强行打开门时，她抓住了我。

‘I don’t allow it; I won’t have my premises spoiled. Go for the locksmith, there’s one about a mile from here. But avast!’ putting her hand in her side-pocket, ‘here’s a key that’ll fit, I guess; let’s see.’ And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas! Queequeg’s supplemental bolt remained unwithdrawn within.
‘我不允许；我不会让我的房屋被破坏。去找锁匠，离这里大约一英里就有一个。但是阿瓦斯特！”她把手伸进侧袋，“我想，这是一把合适的钥匙；让我们看看。”说完，她把它插进锁里。可惜！奎奎格的补充螺栓仍未撤回。

‘Have to burst it open,’ said I, and was running down the entry a little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowing I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.
“必须把它打开，”我说，并沿着入口跑了一点，作为一个良好的开始，这时女房东抓住了我，再次发誓我不应该破坏她的房子；但我挣脱了她，身体突然猛冲向目标。

With a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming against the wall, sent the plaster to the ceiling; and there, good heavens! there sat Queequeg, altogether cool and self-collected; right in the middle of the room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on top of his head. He looked neither one way nor the other way, but sat like a carved image with scarce a sign of active life.
随着一声巨大的响动，门猛地打开了，把手猛地撞在墙上，把灰泥打到了天花板上。那里，天哪！魁魁格坐在那里，神情冷静、镇定。就在房间的中间；蹲在他的大腿上，把 Yojo 抱在头顶上。他既不看向一侧，也不看向另一侧，而是像一尊雕刻的雕像一样坐着，几乎看不到任何活跃的生命迹象。

‘Queequeg,’ said I, going up to him, ‘Queequeg, what’s the matter with you?’
“魁魁格，”我走到他面前说道，“魁魁格，你怎么了？”

‘He hain’t been a sittin’ so all day, has he?’ said the landlady.
“他不是一整天都坐着吗？”女房东说。

But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost felt like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained; especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for upwards of eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.
但我们说了这么多，却无法从他嘴里拖出一个字；我几乎想把他推倒，以便改变他的姿势，因为这几乎令人无法忍受，它看起来是如此痛苦和不自然；尤其是，他很可能已经这样坐了八到十个小时以上，而且还没有按时吃饭。

‘Mrs. Hussey,’ said I, ‘he’s ALIVE at all events; so leave us, if you please, and I will see to this strange affair myself.’
'太太。赫西，”我说，“无论如何，他还活着；所以如果你愿意的话，请离开我们吧，我会亲自处理这件奇怪的事情。

Closing the door upon the landlady, I endeavored to prevail upon Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain. There he sat; and all he could do—for all my polite arts and blandishments—he would not move a peg, nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor notice my presence in the slightest way.
我关上女房东的门，努力说服魁魁格坐下来。但徒劳。他坐在那里；他所能做的一切——尽管我尽了所有的礼貌和奉承——他不肯动一根钉子，不说一个字，甚至不看我，也不以任何方式注意到我的存在。

I wonder, thought I, if this can possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do they fast on their hams that way in his native island. It must be so; yes, it’s part of his creed, I suppose; well, then, let him rest; he’ll get up sooner or later, no doubt. It can’t last for ever, thank God, and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I don’t believe it’s very punctual then.
我想，我想知道这是否可能成为他斋月的一部分；在他的家乡岛上，他们也这样禁食火腿吗？一定是这样；是的，我想这是他信条的一部分；好吧，那就让他休息吧；毫无疑问，他迟早会起床。感谢上帝，它不可能永远持续下去，而且他的斋月每年只有一次；我不认为那会很准时。

I went down to supper. After sitting a long time listening to the long stories of some sailors who had just come from a plum-pudding voyage, as they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in a schooner or brig, confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean only); after listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o’clock, I went up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination. But no; there he was just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch. I began to grow vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be sitting there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room, holding a piece of wood on his head.
我下楼去吃晚饭了。坐了很长时间，听了一些水手的长篇故事，他们刚刚完成了他们所说的李子布丁航行（即乘坐纵帆船或双桅船进行的短途捕鲸航行，仅限于北线） ，仅在大西洋）；听完这些李子布丁直到将近十一点，我上楼去睡觉，我非常确定奎奎格此时肯定已经结束了他的斋月。但不是;他就在我离开他的地方；他一动不动。我开始对他感到恼火。整天半夜坐在冰冷的房间里，头上顶着一块木头，这真是毫无意义和疯狂。

‘For heaven’s sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself; get up and have some supper. You’ll starve; you’ll kill yourself, Queequeg.’ But not a word did he reply.
“看在老天爷的份上，奎魁格，站起来，摇晃一下自己；起床吃点晚饭。你会挨饿的；你会自杀的，魁魁格。”但他一言不发。

Despairing of him, therefore, I determined to go to bed and to sleep; and no doubt, before a great while, he would follow me. But previous to turning in, I took my heavy bearskin jacket, and threw it over him, as it promised to be a very cold night; and he had nothing but his ordinary round jacket on. For some time, do all I would, I could not get into the faintest doze. I had blown out the candle; and the mere thought of Queequeg—not four feet off—sitting there in that uneasy position, stark alone in the cold and dark; this made me really wretched. Think of it; sleeping all night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his hams in this dreary, unaccountable Ramadan!
因此，我对他感到绝望，决定上床睡觉。毫无疑问，过不了多久，他就会跟着我。但在上床睡觉之前，我拿起厚重的熊皮夹克，披在他身上，因为这注定是一个非常寒冷的夜晚。他只穿了一件普通的圆夹克。有一段时间，我竭尽全力，却无法打瞌睡。我已经吹灭了蜡烛；一想到魁魁格——距他不到四英尺——以那种不安的姿势坐在那里，孤身一人在寒冷和黑暗中；这让我真的很可怜。想一想；在这个沉闷、无法解释的斋月里，我和一个完全清醒的异教徒在同一个房间里睡了一整夜！

But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing more till break of day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted Queequeg, as if he had been screwed down to the floor. But as soon as the first glimpse of sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating joints, but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed his forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.
但不知怎的，我最终还是下车了，直到天亮才知道更多的事情。向床边望去，奎魁格蹲在那里，仿佛被拧到了地板上。但当第一缕阳光射入窗外时，他就站了起来，关节僵硬而刺耳，但表情却很愉快。一瘸一拐地向我躺着的地方走来；他的额头再次抵住了我的额头。并说他的斋月结束了。

Now, as I before hinted, I have no objection to any person’s religion, be it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any other person, because that other person don’t believe it also. But when a man’s religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment to him; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to lodge in; then I think it high time to take that individual aside and argue the point with him.
现在，正如我之前暗示的那样，我不反对任何人的宗教，无论它是什么，只要那个人不杀害或侮辱任何其他人，因为那个人也不相信它。但当一个人的宗教变得真正疯狂时；当这对他来说是一种积极的折磨时；总而言之，使我们的地球成为一个令人不舒服的旅馆；那么我认为是时候将该人拉到一边并与他争论这一点了。

And just so I now did with Queequeg. ‘Queequeg,’ said I, ‘get into bed now, and lie and listen to me.’ I then went on, beginning with the rise and progress of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various religions of the present time, during which time I labored to show Queequeg that all these Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and common sense. I told him, too, that he being in other things such an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badly pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous Ramadan of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in; hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must necessarily be half-starved. This is the reason why most dyspeptic religionists cherish such melancholy notions about their hereafters. In one word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on an undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.
现在我对 Queequeg 也是如此。 “奎魁格，”我说，“现在上床睡觉，听我说。”然后我继续讲下去，从原始宗教的兴起和发展开始，一直到当今时代的各种宗教。那次我努力向魁魁格表明，所有这些四旬斋、斋月和在寒冷、阴暗的房间里长时间蹲着的行为都是彻头彻尾的胡说八道；不利于健康；对灵魂无用；简而言之，这违背了明显的卫生法则和常识。我还告诉他，他在其他事情上是一个极其明智和睿智的野蛮人，看到他现在在这个可笑的斋月上如此愚蠢，我感到痛苦，非常痛苦。此外，我认为，禁食会使身体塌陷。于是精神就陷进去了；所有由禁食产生的思想必然是半饥饿的。这就是为什么大多数消化不良的宗教徒对他们的来世怀有如此忧郁的想法的原因。一言以蔽之，魁魁格，我相当离题地说。地狱是一个最初诞生于未消化的苹果饺子上的想法；从那时起，斋月引发的遗传性消化不良就一直持续下去。

I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia; expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it in. He said no; only upon one memorable occasion. It was after a great feast given by his father the king, on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o’clock in the afternoon, and all cooked and eaten that very evening.
然后我问魁魁格他本人是否患有消化不良；他回答道。非常清楚地表达了这个想法，以便他能够接受。他说不；他说不。只在一个值得纪念的时刻。那是在他的父亲国王举办的盛大宴会之后，一场伟大的战斗取得了胜利，到下午两点左右，已有五十名敌人被杀死，并在当天晚上全部煮熟并吃掉。

‘No more, Queequeg,’ said I, shuddering; ‘that will do;’ for I knew the inferences without his further hinting them. I had seen a sailor who had visited that very island, and he told me that it was the custom, when a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain in the yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with breadfruit and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were sent round with the victor’s compliments to all his friends, just as though these presents were so many Christmas turkeys.
“别再这样了，奎魁格，”我颤抖着说道。 “那就行了。”因为无需他进一步暗示我就知道这些推论。我曾见过一位水手访问过那个岛，他告诉我，当那里发生一场伟大的战斗时，人们会在胜利者的院子或花园里烧烤所有被杀的人，这是一种习俗。然后，它们被一一放入大木盘中，周围像肉饭一样装饰着面包果和椰子。他们嘴里叼着一些欧芹，带着胜利者对他所有朋友的赞美而被送到各地，就像这些礼物是那么多的圣诞火鸡一样。

After all, I do not think that my remarks about religion made much impression upon Queequeg. Because, in the first place, he somehow seemed dull of hearing on that important subject, unless considered from his own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not more than one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and, finally, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion than I did. He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible young man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.
毕竟，我不认为我关于宗教的言论给魁魁格留下了太多印象。因为，首先，除非从他自己的角度考虑，否则他在这个重要的话题上似乎听得很迟钝。其次，他不超过三分之一的人理解我，无法像我一样简单地表达我的想法；最后，他无疑认为他比我更了解真正的宗教。他用一种居高临下的关心和同情的目光看着我，仿佛他认为这样一个明智的年轻人如此无可救药地迷失在福音派异教的虔诚中是一件非常遗憾的事情。

At last we rose and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty breakfast of chowders of all sorts, so that the landlady should not make much profit by reason of his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the Pequod, sauntering along, and picking our teeth with halibut bones.
最后我们起身穿好衣服。魁魁格吃了一顿丰盛的早餐，里面有各种各样的杂烩，这样女房东就不会因为他的斋月而赚到太多钱。

Chapter 18
第18章

His Mark.
他的马克。

As we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship, Queequeg carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff voice loudly hailed us from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal, and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board that craft, unless they previously produced their papers.
当我们沿着码头的尽头朝船走去时，奎魁格拿着他的鱼叉，皮勒船长用他粗哑的声音在他的棚屋里大声向我们招呼，说他没有怀疑我的朋友是一个食人者，并进一步宣布他不让我们这么做。船上的食人者，除非他们事先出示了文件。

‘What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?’ said I, now jumping on the bulwarks, and leaving my comrade standing on the wharf.
“皮勒船长，你这话是什么意思？”我一边说，一边跳上舷墙，留下我的战友站在码头上。

‘I mean,’ he replied, ‘he must show his papers.’
“我的意思是，”他回答道，“他必须出示证件。”

‘Yes,’ said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head from behind Peleg’s, out of the wigwam. ‘He must show that he’s converted. Son of darkness,’ he added, turning to Queequeg, ‘art thou at present in communion with any Christian church?’
“是的，”比勒达队长从法勒的棚屋后面探出头来，用空洞的声音说道。 ‘他必须表明他已经皈依了。黑暗之子，”他转向奎魁格补充道，“你目前与任何基督教会有联系吗？”

‘Why,’ said I, ‘he’s a member of the first Congregational Church.’ Here be it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships at last come to be converted into the churches.
“为什么，”我说，“他是第一公理会的成员。”这里是这样说的，许多乘坐楠塔基特船上的纹身野蛮人最终都皈依了教堂。

‘First Congregational Church,’ cried Bildad, ‘what! that worships in Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman’s meeting-house?’ and so saying, taking out his spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana handkerchief, and putting them on very carefully, came out of the wigwam, and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look at Queequeg.
“第一公理会教堂，”比勒达喊道，“什么！ “是在执事申命记·科尔曼的礼拜堂里做礼拜的吗？”一边说着，一边拿出眼镜，用黄色大手帕擦了擦，小心翼翼地戴上，走出棚屋，僵硬地靠在舷墙上，仔细地看了魁魁格一眼。

‘How long hath he been a member?’ he then said, turning to me; ‘not very long, I rather guess, young man.’
“他成为会员多久了？”然后他转向我说道。 “我猜不会太久，年轻人。”

‘No,’ said Peleg, ‘and he hasn’t been baptized right either, or it would have washed some of that devil’s blue off his face.’
“不，”法勒说，“他也没有受过洗礼，否则他脸上的蓝色就会被洗掉。”

‘Do tell, now,’ cried Bildad, ‘is this Philistine a regular member of Deacon Deuteronomy’s meeting? I never saw him going there, and I pass it every Lord’s day.’
“现在请告诉我，”比勒达喊道，“这个非利士人是申命记执事会议的常客吗？我从来没有见过他去那里，我每个主日都经过那里。

‘I don’t know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting,’ said I; ‘all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First Congregational Church. He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.’
“我对申命记执事或他的会议一无所知，”我说。 “我所知道的是，魁魁格是第一公理会的天生成员。他本人就是一名执事，奎魁格也是。

‘Young man,’ said Bildad sternly, ‘thou art skylarking with me—explain thyself, thou young Hittite. What church dost thee mean? answer me.’
“年轻人，”比勒达严厉地说，“你在跟我开玩笑——解释一下，你这个年轻的赫梯人。你指的是什么教会？回答我。'

Finding myself thus hard pushed, I replied. ‘I mean, sir, the same ancient Catholic Church to which you and I, and Captain Peleg there, and Queequeg here, and all of us, and every mother’s son and soul of us belong; the great and everlasting First Congregation of this whole worshipping world; we all belong to that; only some of us cherish some queer crotchets no ways touching the grand belief; in THAT we all join hands.’
我回答道，发现自己被逼得很紧。 “先生，我的意思是，你和我、那里的佩勒船长、这里的魁魁格、我们所有人、我们每个母亲的儿子和灵魂都属于同一座古老的天主教堂；整个敬拜世界伟大而永恒的第一届集会；我们都属于那个；只有我们中的一些人怀有一些与伟大信仰无关的奇怪的怪诞想法；我们大家携起手来。

‘Splice, thou mean’st SPLICE hands,’ cried Peleg, drawing nearer. ‘Young man, you’d better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-mast hand; I never heard a better sermon. Deacon Deuteronomy—why Father Mapple himself couldn’t beat it, and he’s reckoned something. Come aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers. I say, tell Quohog there—what’s that you call him? tell Quohog to step along. By the great anchor, what a harpoon he’s got there! looks like good stuff that; and he handles it about right. I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did you ever stand in the head of a whale-boat? did you ever strike a fish?’
“拼接，你是说拼接手，”法勒喊道，走近了一些。 “年轻人，你最好找一位传教士，而不是一位前桅手；我从未听过更好的布道。申命记执事——为什么梅普尔神父自己无法击败它，他已经想到了一些事情。上船，上船；别介意报纸。我说，告诉库霍格——你叫他什么？告诉 Quohog 一起走。伟大的锚啊，他那儿有一把多么棒的鱼叉啊！看起来是个好东西；他处理得很好。我说，Quohog，或者不管你叫什么名字，你曾经站在捕鲸船的船头吗？你打过鱼吗？

Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon the bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats hanging to the side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his harpoon, cried out in some such way as this:—
奎魁格一言不发，以他那种狂野的方式跳上舷墙，从那里跳进了一艘挂在一边的捕鲸船的船头；然后他撑起左膝，举起鱼叉，大声喊道：

‘Cap’ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere? You see him? well, spose him one whale eye, well, den!’ and taking sharp aim at it, he darted the iron right over old Bildad’s broad brim, clean across the ship’s decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.
“船长，你看到他在水上滴了一小滴焦油吗？”你看到他了吗？好吧，给他一只鲸鱼眼睛，好吧，巢穴！”他锐利地瞄准了它，把熨斗从老比勒达宽阔的帽檐上飞过，干净地穿过船的甲板，击中了闪闪发光的焦油斑点，消失了。

‘Now,’ said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, ‘spos-ee him whale-e eye; why, dad whale dead.’
“现在，”魁魁格一边悄悄地拉着鱼线，一边说，“把他的鲸鱼眼睛拿走；”为什么，鲸鱼爸爸死了。

‘Quick, Bildad,’ said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the close vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway. ‘Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship’s papers. We must have Hedgehog there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye, Quohog, we’ll give ye the ninetieth lay, and that’s more than ever was given a harpooneer yet out of Nantucket.’
“快点，比勒达，”他的搭档法莱格说道，他对飞来的鱼叉近在咫尺感到震惊，于是他退到了船舱舷梯处。 “我说，快点，你比勒达，把船上的文件拿来。”我们的一艘船上一定有刺猬，我是说 Quohog。听着，库霍格，我们会给你第九十个，这比楠塔基特岛的标枪手还多。

So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg was soon enrolled among the same ship’s company to which I myself belonged.
于是，我们走进了船舱，让我非常高兴的是，奎奎格很快就加入了我自己所属的同一艘船的连队。

When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for signing, he turned to me and said, ‘I guess, Quohog there don’t know how to write, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy name or make thy mark?
当所有预赛结束、法莱格准备好签字的一切后，他转向我说：‘我猜，库霍格不知道怎么写，是吗？我说，Quohog，滚蛋吧！你签下你的名字还是做个记号吗？

But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the offered pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so that through Captain Peleg’s obstinate mistake touching his appellative, it stood something like this:—
但在这个问题上，曾参加过两三次类似仪式的魁魁格看上去丝毫没有感到尴尬；但他拿起提供的笔，在纸上的适当位置抄写，与他手臂上纹身的一个奇怪的圆形图形一模一样；因此，由于皮莱格船长顽固的错误触及了他的称谓，所以它是这样的：

Quohog. his X mark.
库霍格。他的X标记。

Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg, and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of his broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting one entitled ‘The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose,’ placed it in Queequeg’s hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his, looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, ‘Son of darkness, I must do my duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the souls of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman. Spurn the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steer clear of the fiery pit!’
与此同时，比尔达上尉坐在那儿，认真而坚定地注视着奎魁格，最后庄严地站起来，在他那件宽裙土褐色外套的大口袋里摸索着，拿出一捆小册子，选了一本题为《末日来临》的小册子。或刻不容缓，”把它放在魁魁格手里，然后用双手抓住它们和书，认真地看着他的眼睛，说：“黑暗之子，我必须在你面前履行我的职责；我是这艘船的部分所有者，我关心所有船员的灵魂；如果你仍然坚持你的异教生活方式，我非常担心，我恳求你不要继续做一个彼列的奴仆。抛弃偶像贝尔和丑陋的龙；转离将要来临的愤怒；我说，请注意你的眼睛；哦！天哪！避开火坑！”

Something of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad’s language, heterogeneously mixed with Scriptural and domestic phrases.
老比勒达的语言中还残留着一些盐海的味道，与圣经和家庭用语混杂在一起。

‘Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now spoiling our harpooneer,’ Peleg. ‘Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers—it takes the shark out of ‘em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish. There was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all Nantucket and the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to good. He got so frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in case he got stove and went to Davy Jones.’
“阿瓦斯特，阿瓦斯特，比勒达，阿瓦斯特现在正在破坏我们的标枪手，”法莱格。 “虔诚的鱼叉手永远不会成为优秀的航海者——它会把鲨鱼从他们身上夺走；没有一个像鲨鱼一样的鱼叉手是不值一提的。年轻的纳特·斯温 (Nat Swaine) 曾经是楠塔基特岛和葡萄园地区最勇敢的划船高手。他参加了会议，但从未取得好成绩。他对自己那瘟疫般的灵魂感到非常害怕，以至于他畏缩起来，远离鲸鱼，因为担心万一他得到炉子并去找戴维·琼斯，就会被拍手拍手。

‘Peleg! Peleg!’ said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, ‘thou thyself, as I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what it is to have the fear of death; how, then, can’st thou prate in this ungodly guise. Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg. Tell me, when this same Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan, that same voyage when thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did’st thou not think of Death and the Judgment then?’
‘法勒！法勒！”比勒达举起眼睛和双手说道，“你和我一样，经历过许多危险的时刻；法勒，你知道什么是对死亡的恐惧；那么，你怎么能用这种不敬虔的幌子胡言乱语呢？你欺骗了自己的心，法勒。告诉我，当这艘裴阔德号在日本的台风中让她的三根桅杆落入海中时，当你与亚哈船长并肩航行时，你当时没有想到死亡和审判吗？

‘Hear him, hear him now,’ cried Peleg, marching across the cabin, and thrusting his hands far down into his pockets,—‘hear him, all of ye. Think of that! When every moment we thought the ship would sink! Death and the Judgment then? What? With all three masts making such an everlasting thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us, fore and aft. Think of Death and the Judgment then? No! no time to think about Death then. Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of; and how to save all hands—how to rig jury-masts—how to get into the nearest port; that was what I was thinking of.’
“听他说，现在听他说，”法莱格喊道，一边大步穿过小屋，双手深深地插进口袋——“听他说，你们所有人。”想想看！当我们每时每刻都认为船会沉没时！那么死亡与审判呢？什么？三根桅杆都在船舷上发出持久的雷鸣声；以及我们的每片海浪，无论是船头还是船尾。那么想到死亡与审判吗？不！那时没有时间思考死亡。生活就是亚哈船长和我所想的；以及如何拯救所有人——如何安装临时桅杆——如何进入最近的港口；这就是我的想法。

Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck, where we followed him. There he stood, very quietly overlooking some sailmakers who were mending a top-sail in the waist. Now and then he stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which otherwise might have been wasted.
比尔达没有再说什么，而是扣上外套的扣子，大步走上甲板，我们也跟着他。他站在那里，静静地俯视着一些正在修补腰部上帆的帆匠。他时不时地弯腰捡起一块补丁，或者保存一头涂了柏油的麻线，否则这些麻线可能会被浪费掉。

Chapter 19
第19章

The Prophet.
先知。

‘Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?’
“船友们，你们那艘船发货了吗？”

Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from the water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when the above words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us, levelled his massive forefinger at the vessel in question. He was but shabbily apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a black handkerchief investing his neck. A confluent small-pox had in all directions flowed over his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed bed of a torrent, when the rushing waters have been dried up.
奎魁格和我刚刚离开佩阔德号，正从水边漫步走开，当时每个人都在思考自己的事情，这时一个陌生人对我们说出了上面的话，他在我们面前停下来，用他巨大的食指指着我们。有关船只。他衣衫褴褛，穿着褪色的夹克和打着补丁的长裤。脖子上蒙着一块黑色的破布手帕。天花从四面八方流过他的脸，当急流干涸后，他的脸就像激流中复杂的棱纹河床一样。

‘Have ye shipped in her?’ he repeated.
“你们把她运进来了吗？”他重复道。

‘You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose,’ said I, trying to gain a little more time for an uninterrupted look at him.
“我想你指的是‘裴阔德’号船，”我说道，试图争取更多的时间不间断地看着他。

‘Aye, the Pequod—that ship there,’ he said, drawing back his whole arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the fixed bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object.
“是的，‘裴廓德号’——那艘船，”他说着，抽回了自己的整条手臂，然后迅速将它从身上直接推了出来，他尖尖的手指上的刺刀完全刺向了那个物体。

‘Yes,’ said I, ‘we have just signed the articles.’
“是的，”我说，“我们刚刚签署了条款。”

‘Anything down there about your souls?’
“下面有关于你灵魂的东西吗？”

‘About what?’
'关于什么？'

‘Oh, perhaps you hav’n’t got any,’ he said quickly. ‘No matter though, I know many chaps that hav’n’t got any,—good luck to ‘em; and they are all the better off for it. A soul’s a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon.’
“哦，也许你什么都没有，”他很快说道。 “不管怎样，我知道很多人都没有，祝他们好运；他们因此而过得更好。灵魂就像马车的第五个轮子。

‘What are you jabbering about, shipmate?’ said I.
“你在胡言乱语什么呢，船友？”我问道。

‘HE’S got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort in other chaps,’ abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis upon the word HE.
“不过，他已经足够弥补其他人的所有此类缺陷了。”陌生人突然说道，紧张地强调了“他”这个词。

‘Queequeg,’ said I, ‘let’s go; this fellow has broken loose from somewhere; he’s talking about something and somebody we don’t know.’
“魁魁格，”我说，“我们走吧；这家伙从什么地方挣脱出来了；他正在谈论一些我们不认识的人。

‘Stop!’ cried the stranger. ‘Ye said true—ye hav’n’t seen Old Thunder yet, have ye?’
“停下来！”陌生人喊道。 “你说的是真的——你还没见过老雷，是吗？”

‘Who’s Old Thunder?’ said I, again riveted with the insane earnestness of his manner.
“谁是老雷？”我问道，再次被他疯狂的认真态度所吸引。

‘Captain Ahab.’
“亚哈船长。”

‘What! the captain of our ship, the Pequod?’
'什么！我们“裴廓德”号的船长？

‘Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name. Ye hav’n’t seen him yet, have ye?’
“是的，在我们这些老水手中，他就是用这个名字的。你还没见过他，是吗？

‘No, we hav’n’t. He’s sick they say, but is getting better, and will be all right again before long.’
‘不，我们没有。他们说他病了，但正在好转，不久就会康复。”

‘All right again before long!’ laughed the stranger, with a solemnly derisive sort of laugh. ‘Look ye; when Captain Ahab is all right, then this left arm of mine will be all right; not before.’
“好吧，不久之后再来！”陌生人笑道，笑声带着庄重的嘲讽。 ‘你们看；等亚哈船长好了，我的左臂也就好了；以前没有。”

‘What do you know about him?’
“你对他了解多少？”

‘What did they TELL you about him? Say that!’
“他们告诉你了关于他的什么事情？比如说！'

‘They didn’t tell much of anything about him; only I’ve heard that he’s a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew.’
“他们没有透露太多关于他的事情；只有我听说他是一位优秀的鲸鱼猎人，也是一位优秀的船长。”

‘That’s true, that’s true—yes, both true enough. But you must jump when he gives an order. Step and growl; growl and go—that’s the word with Captain Ahab. But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape Horn, long ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights; nothing about that deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in Santa?—heard nothing about that, eh? Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into? And nothing about his losing his leg last voyage, according to the prophecy. Didn’t ye hear a word about them matters and something more, eh? No, I don’t think ye did; how could ye? Who knows it? Not all Nantucket, I guess. But hows’ever, mayhap, ye’ve heard tell about the leg, and how he lost it; aye, ye have heard of that, I dare say. Oh yes, THAT every one knows a’most—I mean they know he’s only one leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off.’
‘是的，这是真的——是的，两者都足够正确。但当他发出命令时你必须跳起来。脚步并咆哮；咆哮并走——这是亚哈船长的话。但很久以前在合恩角发生在他身上的那件事，当时他像死人一样躺了三天三夜。没有听说过在圣诞老人的祭坛前与西班牙人发生致命冲突的事？——什么也没听说，是吗？没有关于他向银葫芦吐口水的事吗？根据预言，并没有提到他在上次航行中失去了一条腿。难道你们没有听到任何关于他们的事情以及更多的事情吗？不，我不认为你做到了；你们怎么可以？谁知道呢？我猜，并非所有楠塔基特岛都是如此。但无论如何，也许你们听说过关于这条腿的故事，以及他是如何失去它的；是的，我敢说你们已经听说过。哦，是的，每个人都知道——我的意思是他们知道他只有一条腿；帕尔玛干酪把另一个去掉了。

‘My friend,’ said I, ‘what all this gibberish of yours is about, I don’t know, and I don’t much care; for it seems to me that you must be a little damaged in the head. But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of that ship there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about the loss of his leg.’
“我的朋友，”我说，“我不知道，也不太关心你说的这些胡言乱语是怎么回事；因为在我看来，你的头脑一定有点受损。但如果你说的是亚哈船长，说的是那里的那艘船，裴廓德号，那么让我告诉你，我知道他失去一条腿的一切。

‘ALL about it, eh—sure you do?—all?’
“关于这一切，嗯——你确定吗？——全部？”

‘Pretty sure.’
'很确定。'

With finger pointed and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like stranger stood a moment, as if in a troubled reverie; then starting a little, turned and said:—‘Ye’ve shipped, have ye? Names down on the papers? Well, well, what’s signed, is signed; and what’s to be, will be; and then again, perhaps it won’t be, after all. Anyhow, it’s all fixed and arranged a’ready; and some sailors or other must go with him, I suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity ‘em! Morning to ye, shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I’m sorry I stopped ye.’
这个乞丐般的陌生人用手指指着“裴阔德”号，眼睛平视着“裴阔德号”，站了一会儿，仿佛陷入了苦恼的沉思中。然后稍微吃了一惊，转身说道：“你已经发货了，是吗？”名字都写在报纸上了？好吧好吧，签了就是签了；将会发生什么，将会发生什么；话又说回来，也许终究不会是这样。无论如何，一切都已经确定并安排好了；我想，一些水手或其他人必须和他一起去；这些人和其他人一样，上帝怜悯他们！早上好，船友们，早上好；不可言喻的诸天保佑你们；很抱歉我阻止了你。

‘Look here, friend,’ said I, ‘if you have anything important to tell us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle us, you are mistaken in your game; that’s all I have to say.’
“看这里，朋友，”我说，“如果你有什么重要的事情要告诉我们，就说出来；”但如果你只是想迷惑我们，那你就玩错了；这就是我要说的。

‘And it’s said very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way; you are just the man for him—the likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates, morning! Oh! when ye get there, tell ‘em I’ve concluded not to make one of ‘em.’
“这话说得很好，我喜欢听小伙子这样说话；你就是他的最佳人选——就像你们一样。早上好，船员们，早上好！哦！当你们到达那里时，告诉他们我已经决定不再成为他们中的一员。

‘Ah, my dear fellow, you can’t fool us that way—you can’t fool us. It is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him.’
‘啊，我亲爱的朋友，你不能这样愚弄我们——你不能愚弄我们。对于一个男人来说，让自己看起来好像有一个巨大的秘密是世界上最容易的事情。”

‘Morning to ye, shipmates, morning.’
“你们早上好，船员们，早上好。”

‘Morning it is,’ said I. ‘Come along, Queequeg, let’s leave this crazy man. But stop, tell me your name, will you?’
“早上好了，”我说，“走吧，奎魁格，我们离开这个疯子吧。”但是停下来，告诉我你的名字，好吗？

‘Elijah.’
'以利亚。'

Elijah! thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after each other’s fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear. But we had not gone perhaps above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and looking back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us, though at a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I said nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with my comrade, anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner that we did. He did; and then it seemed to me that he was dogging us, but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. This circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing, shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments and half-apprehensions, and all connected with the Pequod; and Captain Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn fit; and the silver calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the ship the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig; and the voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy things.
以利亚！我想，然后我们就走开了，两人都以彼此的方式评论着这个衣衫褴褛的老水手。并同意他只不过是个骗子，试图成为一个令人讨厌的人。但当我们碰巧转弯时，我们还没有走超过一百码，当我回头看时，除了以利亚之外，应该看到谁跟着我们，尽管距离很远。不知何故，他的景象让我如此震惊，以至于我没有对魁魁格说他在后面，而是和我的同伴一起走去，急切地想看看这个陌生人是否会和我们一样拐过同一个拐角。他做到了；然后我觉得他在追着我们，但他到底是出于什么目的，我一生都无法想象。这种情况，再加上他模棱两可、半暗示、半揭露、笼罩式的谈话，现在让我产生了各种模糊的惊奇和半忧虑，而所有这些都与裴廓德有关。和亚哈船长；和他失去的腿；和合恩角配合；和银葫芦；以及前一天我离开船时，法勒船长对他的评价；以及女莺蒂斯蒂格的预言；以及我们注定要航行的航程；还有一百个其他阴暗的东西。

I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was really dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg, and on that side of it retraced our steps. But Elijah passed on, without seeming to notice us. This relieved me; and once more, and finally as it seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
我决心要让自己知道这个衣衫褴褛的以利亚是否真的在跟踪我们，带着这个意图，我和魁魁格一起穿过了路，然后从那一边折回了我们的脚步。但以利亚走了过去，似乎没有注意到我们。这让我松了一口气。最后，在我看来，我再次在心里宣布他是个骗子。

Chapter 20
第20章

All Astir.
全部阿斯蒂尔。

A day or two passed, and there was great activity aboard the Pequod. Not only were the old sails being mended, but new sails were coming on board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging; in short, everything betokened that the ship’s preparations were hurrying to a close. Captain Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam keeping a sharp look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and providing at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging were working till long after night-fall.
一两天过去了，“裴阔德”号上发生了很多活动。不仅旧帆得到了修补，新帆、帆布和索具卷也陆续装上船。总之，一切都预示着这艘船的准备工作即将结束。皮莱格船长很少或从未上岸，而是坐在他的棚屋里，密切关注着手上的情况：比尔达在商店里负责所有的采购和供应；比尔达在商店里负责所有的采购和供应工作。货舱和索具上的工作人员一直工作到夜幕降临后很久。

On the day following Queequeg’s signing the articles, word was given at all the inns where the ship’s company were stopping, that their chests must be on board before night, for there was no telling how soon the vessel might be sailing. So Queequeg and I got down our traps, resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last. But it seems they always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not sail for several days. But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and there is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod was fully equipped.
奎魁格签署条款的第二天，船上公司停靠的所有旅馆都收到消息，说他们的箱子必须在晚上之前上船，因为不知道船要多久才能启航。于是我和魁魁格就下了陷阱，但决定在岸上睡到最后。但似乎在这些情况下他们总是给予很长的通知，并且船好几天都没有航行。但这也不足为奇；在“裴阔德”号装备齐全之前，还有很多事情要做，也不知道要考虑多少事情。

Every one knows what a multitude of things—beds, sauce-pans, knives and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are indispensable to the business of housekeeping. Just so with whaling, which necessitates a three-years’ housekeeping upon the wide ocean, far from all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers. And though this also holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means to the same extent as with whalemen. For besides the great length of the whaling voyage, the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the fishery, and the impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors usually frequented, it must be remembered, that of all ships, whaling vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds, and especially to the destruction and loss of the very things upon which the success of the voyage most depends. Hence, the spare boats, spare spars, and spare lines and harpoons, and spare everythings, almost, but a spare Captain and duplicate ship.
每个人都知道，有很多东西——床、平底锅、刀叉、铲子和钳子、餐巾、胡桃夹子等等，对于家政工作来说是不可或缺的。捕鲸业也是如此，捕鲸业需要在广阔的海洋上进行三年的家务劳动，远离杂货商、小贩、医生、面包师和银行家。尽管商船也是如此，但无论如何，其程度与捕鲸者不同。因为除了捕鲸航程很长、渔业起诉所特有的众多条款以及不可能在通常经常光顾的偏远港口更换它们之外，必须记住，在所有船舶中，捕鲸船是最容易受到影响的。各种事故，特别是航程成功最依赖的物品的破坏和损失。因此，备用的船，备用的桅杆，备用的线和鱼叉，几乎所有的东西都备用，除了一个备用的船长和重复的船。

At the period of our arrival at the Island, the heaviest storage of the Pequod had been almost completed; comprising her beef, bread, water, fuel, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some time there was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds and ends of things, both large and small.
当我们到达该岛时，“裴阔德”号的最大储存量已基本完成。包括她的牛肉、面包、水、燃料、铁箍和棍棒。但是，正如之前所暗示的，有一段时间，人们不断地在船上取走各种大大小小的杂物。

Chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain Bildad’s sister, a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable spirit, but withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if SHE could help it, nothing should be found wanting in the Pequod, after once fairly getting to sea. At one time she would come on board with a jar of pickles for the steward’s pantry; another time with a bunch of quills for the chief mate’s desk, where he kept his log; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one’s rheumatic back. Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity—Aunt Charity, as everybody called her. And like a sister of charity did this charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither, ready to turn her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety, comfort, and consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother Bildad was concerned, and in which she herself owned a score or two of well-saved dollars.
比尔达德船长的姐姐是负责这项工作的主要负责人，她是一位瘦削的老太太，意志坚定，不知疲倦，但心地却非常善良，她似乎下定决心，如果她能帮忙，那么“裴阔德号”就不会有任何不足。 ，在一次相当出海之后。有一次，她会带着一罐泡菜上船，放在乘务员的储藏室里。还有一次，他在大副的办公桌上放了一束羽毛笔，他把日志放在那里。第三次用一卷法兰绒来治疗某个人的风湿背部。从来没有哪个女人比她更配得上她的名字，那就是慈善——慈善阿姨，大家都这样称呼她。就像一位慈善机构的姐妹一样，这位慈善的慈善阿姨忙忙碌碌，准备将她的手和心转向任何承诺为她深爱的兄弟比勒达所关心的船上的所有人带来安全、舒适和慰藉的事情。 ，她自己也拥有一两美元存下来的钱。

But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board, as she did the last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and a still longer whaling lance in the other. Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward. As for Bildad, he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed, and at every fresh arrival, down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper. Every once in a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring at the men down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head, and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.
但令人惊讶的是，看到这位心地善良的贵格女教徒上船，就像她最后一天所做的那样，一手拿着一个长油勺，另一只手拿着一根更长的捕鲸矛。比勒达本人和法莱格船长一点也不落后。至于比勒达，他随身带着一长串所需物品的清单，每次新到达时，他都会在纸上的物品对面写下标记。每隔一段时间，法莱格就一瘸一拐地走出他的鲸骨巢穴，向舱口下方的人们咆哮，向桅杆头的索具们咆哮，然后最后咆哮回他的棚屋。

During these days of preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the craft, and as often I asked about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when he was going to come on board his ship. To these questions they would answer, that he was getting better and better, and was expected aboard every day; meantime, the two captains, Peleg and Bildad, could attend to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage. If I had been downright honest with myself, I would have seen very plainly in my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to so long a voyage, without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the absolute dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea. But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his suspicions even from himself. And much this way it was with me. I said nothing, and tried to think nothing.
在准备的这些天里，奎魁格和我经常参观这艘船，我也经常询问亚哈船长的情况，他怎么样，以及他什么时候上船。对于这些问题，他们的回答是，他越来越好，每天都被期待着上船。与此同时，两位船长法勒格和比勒达可以处理船舶航行所需的一切事宜。如果我对自己完全诚实，我会在心里清楚地看到，我只是半幻想以这种方式进行如此漫长的航行，而没有把目光投向那个将成为绝对独裁者的人。当船驶向公海时，它就发生了。但当一个人怀疑有什么不对劲时，有时，如果他已经卷入了这件事，他会不知不觉地努力掩盖自己的怀疑，甚至对他自己也是如此。我的情况也大致如此。我什么也没说，也试着什么也不去想。

At last it was given out that some time next day the ship would certainly sail. So next morning, Queequeg and I took a very early start.
最后宣布，第二天某个时候，船肯定会起航。所以第二天早上，我和奎魁格很早就出发了。

Chapter 21
第21章

Going Aboard.
上船。

It was nearly six o’clock, but only grey imperfect misty dawn, when we drew nigh the wharf.
当我们靠近码头时，已经快六点了，但只是灰色的、不完美的薄雾黎明。

‘There are some sailors running ahead there, if I see right,’ said I to Queequeg, ‘it can’t be shadows; she’s off by sunrise, I guess; come on!’
“前面有一些水手在跑，如果我没看错的话，”我对魁魁格说，“那不可能是影子；那是影子。”我猜她日出时就出发了；快点！'

‘Avast!’ cried a voice, whose owner at the same time coming close behind us, laid a hand upon both our shoulders, and then insinuating himself between us, stood stooping forward a little, in the uncertain twilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me. It was Elijah.
“阿瓦斯特！”一个声音喊道，声音的主人同时走到我们身后，一只手放在我们的肩膀上，然后潜入我们之间，在不确定的暮色中稍微向前倾身站着，奇怪地从魁魁格凝视着我。是以利亚。

‘Going aboard?’
“要上船吗？”

‘Hands off, will you,’ said I.
“把手拿开，好吗？”我说。

‘Lookee here,’ said Queequeg, shaking himself, ‘go ‘way!’
“看这里，”奎魁格摇晃着自己说，“走吧！”

‘Ain’t going aboard, then?’
“那么不上船吗？”

‘Yes, we are,’ said I, ‘but what business is that of yours? Do you know, Mr. Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?’
“是的，我们是，”我说，“但这关你什么事呢？以利亚先生，你知道我认为你有点无礼吗？

‘No, no, no; I wasn’t aware of that,’ said Elijah, slowly and wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg, with the most unaccountable glances.
'不不不; “我没有意识到这一点。”伊利亚说道，他缓慢而惊奇地从我身上移到魁魁格身上，目光中充满了最莫名其妙的目光。

‘Elijah,’ said I, ‘you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing. We are going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be detained.’
“以利亚，”我说，“你退出就是对我和我朋友的回报。”我们要去印度洋和太平洋，并且不想被拘留。

‘Ye be, be ye? Coming back afore breakfast?’
‘是吗，是吗？早餐前回来吗？

‘He’s cracked, Queequeg,’ said I, ‘come on.’
“他已经崩溃了，奎魁格，”我说，“得了吧。”

‘Holloa!’ cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few paces.
“哈喽！”一动不动的伊利亚喊道，当我们走出几步时，他向我们打招呼。

‘Never mind him,’ said I, ‘Queequeg, come on.’
“别管他，”我说，“魁魁格，来吧。”

But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my shoulder, said—‘Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that ship a while ago?’
但他又偷偷地走到我们身边，突然拍拍我的肩膀，说道：“你们刚才有没有看到任何看起来像人的东西朝那艘船走来？”

Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, ‘Yes, I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.’
我被这个简单的、实事求是的问题所震惊，回答说：“是的，我想我确实看到了四五个人;但光线太暗，无法确定。”

‘Very dim, very dim,’ said Elijah. ‘Morning to ye.’
“非常暗淡，非常暗淡，”伊利亚说。 “早上好。”

Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and touching my shoulder again, said, ‘See if you can find ‘em now, will ye?
我们再一次离开了他；但他再次轻轻地跟在我们后面。再次碰触我的肩膀，说道：‘看看你现在能不能找到它们，好吗？

‘Find who?’
“找谁？”

‘Morning to ye! morning to ye!’ he rejoined, again moving off. ‘Oh! I was going to warn ye against—but never mind, never mind—it’s all one, all in the family too;—sharp frost this morning, ain’t it? Good-bye to ye. Shan’t see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it’s before the Grand Jury.’ And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence.
‘早上好！早上好！”他又说道，然后又走开了。 '哦！我本想警告你们不要——但没关系，没关系——这都是一个人，全都是在家里；——今天早上霜冻得很厉害，不是吗？再见了你们。我想很快就不会再见到你们了；除非是在大陪审团面前。”说完这句话后，他终于离开了，让我暂时对他疯狂的无礼感到惊讶。

At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin entrance was locked within; the hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging. Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open. Seeing a light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a tattered pea-jacket. He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms. The profoundest slumber slept upon him.
最后，登上“裴阔德”号，我们发现一切都静悄悄的，没有一丝灵魂的移动。船舱入口被锁在里面；舱口全部打开，并堆满了成卷的索具。走到艏楼，我们发现天窗的滑道打开了。看到一盏灯，我们下去了，发现那里只有一个老索具工，裹着一件破烂的短大衣。他整个人被扔在两个胸前，脸朝下，抱在交叉的双臂里。他睡得很沉。

‘Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?’ said I, looking dubiously at the sleeper. But it seemed that, when on the wharf, Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter, were it not for Elijah’s otherwise inexplicable question. But I beat the thing down; and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg that perhaps we had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish himself accordingly. He put his hand upon the sleeper’s rear, as though feeling if it was soft enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly down there.
“我们看到的那些水手，奎魁格，他们去哪儿了？”我疑惑地看着熟睡的人。但魁魁格在码头上时似乎根本没有注意到我现在提到的事情。因此，如果不是以利亚提出了难以解释的问题，我会认为自己在这件事上被欺骗了。但我还是把它打倒了；然后再次标记了熟睡的人，开玩笑地向魁魁格暗示，也许我们最好和尸体一起坐起来。告诉他相应地建立自己。他把手放在熟睡的人的屁股上，感觉它是否足够柔软。然后，不再多说，静静地坐在那里。

‘Gracious! Queequeg, don’t sit there,’ said I.
'亲切！魁魁格，别坐在那里，”我说。

‘Oh! perry dood seat,’ said Queequeg, ‘my country way; won’t hurt him face.’
'哦！佩里·杜德·席，”奎魁格说，“我的乡间路；不会伤到他的脸。”

‘Face!’ said I, ‘call that his face? very benevolent countenance then; but how hard he breathes, he’s heaving himself; get off, Queequeg, you are heavy, it’s grinding the face of the poor. Get off, Queequeg! Look, he’ll twitch you off soon. I wonder he don’t wake.’
“脸！”我说，“这就是他的脸吗？”那时的面容非常仁慈；但他的呼吸多么困难，他都在起伏；下车，奎魁格，你太重了，它磨破了穷人的脸。下车，魁魁格！瞧，他很快就会把你赶走。我不知道他没有醒来。

Queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk pipe. I sat at the feet. We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from one to the other. Meanwhile, upon questioning him in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to understand that, in his land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas of all sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally, were in the custom of fattening some of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house comfortably in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy fellows, and lay them round in the piers and alcoves. Besides, it was very convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant, and desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps in some damp marshy place.
奎奎格走到熟睡者的头顶上方，点燃了他的战斧烟斗。我坐在脚边。我们让管道从一个枕木上方穿过到另一个枕木上。与此同时，在以他破碎的方式询问他时，魁魁格让我了解到，在他的土地上，由于缺乏各种长椅和沙发，国王、酋长和一般的伟人都有养肥一些人的习惯。脚凳的低阶；在这方面，要布置一所舒适的房子，你只需买八到十个懒汉，把他们放在桥墩和壁龛里。另外，出行也很方便；比那些可转换成手杖的花园椅好多了；有时，一位酋长会打电话给他的随从，希望他在一棵大树下（也许是某个潮湿的沼泽地）为自己搭一张长椅。

While narrating these things, every time Queequeg received the tomahawk from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the sleeper’s head.
在讲述这些事情时，每次奎魁格从我手中接过战斧时，他都会将斧头的一端挥舞在熟睡者的头上。

‘What’s that for, Queequeg?’
“那是做什么用的，奎魁格？”

‘Perry easy, kill-e; oh! perry easy!
‘佩里轻松，杀了你；哦！佩里轻松！

He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe, which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed his soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. The strong vapour now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to tell upon him. He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed troubled in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and rubbed his eyes.
他继续对他的战斧管进行一些疯狂的回忆，它的两种用途似乎既可以使他的敌人头脑清醒，又可以安抚他的灵魂，而我们直接被沉睡的索具工所吸引。浓浓的水蒸气完全填满了收缩的洞，开始向他袭来。他的呼吸有些低沉。然后鼻子似乎有问题；然后旋转一两次；然后坐起来，揉揉眼睛。

‘Holloa!’ he breathed at last, ‘who be ye smokers?’
“喂！”他最后喘了口气，“你们这些抽烟的人是谁？”

‘Shipped men,’ answered I, ‘when does she sail?’
“有船员，”我回答道，“她什么时候启航？”

‘Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captain came aboard last night.’
‘是啊，是啊，你们要进入她的身体，是吗？她今天起航了。船长昨晚上船了。”

‘What Captain?—Ahab?’
“什么船长？——亚哈？”

‘Who but him indeed?’
“除了他，还有谁呢？”

I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we heard a noise on deck.
我正要问他一些有关亚哈的进一步问题，这时我们听到甲板上有响动。

‘Holloa! Starbuck’s astir,’ said the rigger. ‘He’s a lively chief mate, that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to.’ And so saying he went on deck, and we followed.
‘喂！星巴克开始动了，”起重工说。 “他是一位活泼的大副，那；好人，而且是虔诚的人；但现在我还活着，我必须求助。”说完他就走上甲板，我们也跟着走。

It was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in twos and threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively engaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various last things on board. Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.
现在已经是晴朗的日出了。很快，船员们三三两两地登上了船。索具工们兴奋不已。伙伴们积极参与；几个岸上的人正忙着把各种最后的东西搬上船。与此同时，亚哈船长仍然被无形地供奉在他的船舱内。

Chapter 22
第22章

Merry Christmas.
圣诞节快乐。

At length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship’s riggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, and after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, with her last gift—a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her brother-in-law, and a spare Bible for the steward—after all this, the two Captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief mate, Peleg said:
终于，到了中午，船上的装配工们最后解散了，裴阔德号被从码头拖了出来，深思熟虑的慈善家带着她最后的礼物——一个夜晚，乘着捕鲸船离开了。 -为斯塔布、二副、她的姐夫戴上帽子，为乘务员准备一本备用圣经——在这一切之后，两位船长，法勒格和比尔达德，从船舱里走出来，转向大副，法勒格说：

‘Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right? Captain Ahab is all ready—just spoke to him—nothing more to be got from shore, eh? Well, call all hands, then. Muster ‘em aft here—blast ‘em!’
“现在，斯塔巴克先生，你确定一切都正确吗？”亚哈船长已经准备好了——刚刚和他说话了——没有什么可以从岸上得到的了，是吗？好吧，那就召集全体人员吧。将他们聚集到船尾——炸毁他们！

‘No need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg,’ said Bildad, ‘but away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.’
“不需要亵渎的话，无论多么匆忙，法莱格，”比勒达说，“但离开你，朋友斯塔巴克，听从我们的命令。”

How now! Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage, Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea, as well as to all appearances in port. And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign of him was yet to be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin. But then, the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the ship under weigh, and steering her well out to sea. Indeed, as that was not at all his proper business, but the pilot’s; and as he was not yet completely recovered—so they said—therefore, Captain Ahab stayed below. And all this seemed natural enough; especially as in the merchant service many captains never show themselves on deck for a considerable time after heaving up the anchor, but remain over the cabin table, having a farewell merry-making with their shore friends, before they quit the ship for good with the pilot.
现在怎么样了！就在启航的那一刻，法莱格船长和比勒达船长在后甲板上高调地指挥着这一切，就好像他们是海上的联合指挥官一样，就像在港口的所有亮相一样。至于亚哈船长，还没有看到他的踪迹。只是，他们说他在机舱里。但当时的想法是，他的存在对于让船承受重量并引导她顺利出海来说绝不是必要的。确实，这根本不是他的事，而是飞行员的事；他们说，由于他尚未完全康复，因此亚哈船长留在了下面。这一切看起来都很自然。尤其是在商船服务中，许多船长在起锚后很长一段时间内都不会出现在甲板上，而是留在船舱桌子上，与岸上的朋友们欢闹告别，然后才带着船永远离开船。飞行员。

But there was not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain Peleg was now all alive. He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.
但没有太多机会思考这件事，因为皮勒船长现在还活着。似乎大部分说话和发号施令的都是他，而不是比勒达。

‘Aft here, ye sons of bachelors,’ he cried, as the sailors lingered at the main-mast. ‘Mr. Starbuck, drive’em aft.’
“在船尾，你们这些单身汉的儿子们，”当水手们在主桅上徘徊时，他喊道。 '先生。星巴克，把他们开到船尾。”

‘Strike the tent there!’—was the next order. As I hinted before, this whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
“攻击那里的帐篷！”——这是下一个命令。正如我之前暗示的那样，除了在港口之外，这个鲸骨帐篷从未被搭建过。三十年来，在“裴阔德”号上，众所周知，下达起锚命令后，就是下达击打帐篷的命令。

‘Man the capstan! Blood and thunder!—jump!’—was the next command, and the crew sprang for the handspikes.
‘操纵绞盘！鲜血与雷霆！——跳！”——是下一个命令，船员们跳向推杆。

Now in getting under weigh, the station generally occupied by the pilot is the forward part of the ship. And here Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it known, in addition to his other officers, was one of the licensed pilots of the port—he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot in order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was concerned in, for he never piloted any other craft—Bildad, I say, might now be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody, to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good will. Nevertheless, not three days previous, Bildad had told them that no profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in getting under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choice copy of Watts in each seaman’s berth.
现在在称重时，引航员通常占据的位置是船的前部。比勒达在这里，众所周知，除了他的其他军官之外，他和佩莱格一样，是该港口的一名有执照的引航员——他被怀疑让自己成为一名引航员，以节省楠塔基特岛的引航费他所涉及的所有船只，因为他从未驾驶过任何其他船只——我说，现在可能会看到比尔达积极地在船头寻找正在接近的锚，并时不时地唱着一首看似忧郁的诗篇，以纪念即将到来的锚。绞盘上的双手欢呼雀跃，它们怀着衷心的善意，咆哮着歌颂布布尔巷女孩们的合唱。然而，不到三天前，比勒达告诉他们，“裴阔德”号上不允许唱任何亵渎的歌曲，尤其是在称重时；他的妹妹查丽蒂在每个水手的泊位上放了一本精选的《瓦茨》小本。

Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg ripped and swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought he would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was my first kick.
与此同时，法莱格船长在监督船的另一部分，以最可怕的方式向后冲去并咒骂着。我几乎以为他会在起锚之前把船沉没；我不由自主地停在了我的手杆上，并告诉魁魁格也这样做，想着我们俩都面临着危险，在与这样一个恶魔般的领航员一起开始航行时。然而，我安慰自己，尽管比勒达已经七百七十七次了，但虔诚的比勒达可能会得到一些拯救。当我感到后背突然被尖锐的东西刺伤时，我转过身来，看到皮莱格船长的幽灵，他正从我附近撤回他的腿，这让我感到震惊。那是我的第一脚。

‘Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?’ he roared. ‘Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone! Why don’t ye spring, I say, all of ye—spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with the red whiskers; spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants. Spring, I say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!’ And so saying, he moved along the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. Thinks I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.
“这就是行军服务中的方式吗？”他咆哮道。 ‘春天，你这个羊头；春天，折断你的脊梁吧！我说，你们为什么不春天呢——春天！库霍格！春天，你这个长着红色胡须的小伙子；春天在那里，苏格兰帽；春天，你绿裤子。我说，你们所有人，春天来了！”说着，他沿着绞车移动，非常自由地用腿到处走动，而镇定自若的比勒达则继续唱着他的诗篇。我想，佩勒船长今天肯定喝了点什么。

At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided. It was a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into night, we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor. The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge elephant, vast curving icicles depended from the bows.
最后，锚起了，帆挂了，我们滑行了。那是一个短暂而寒冷的圣诞节。当北方短暂的白天融入黑夜时，我们发现自己几乎置身于寒冷的海洋上，冰冷的浪花将我们包裹在冰中，就像穿上了抛光的盔甲。舷墙上长长的一排牙齿在月光下闪闪发光。就像大象的白色象牙一样，巨大的弯曲冰柱从船头垂下来。

Lank Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the old craft deep dived into the green seas, and sent the shivering frost all over her, and the winds howled, and the cordage rang, his steady notes were heard,—
作为领航员的兰克·比勒达 (Lank Bildad) 率领第一班值班，时不时地，这艘古老的船深深地潜入绿色的海洋，把颤抖的霜冻遍体鳞伤，风呼啸，绳索响起，他稳定的音符听到，-

‘Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green. So to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.’
“汹涌的洪水之外的甜蜜田野，披着生机勃勃的绿色而站立。因此，对于犹太人来说，古老的迦南屹立不倒，而约旦则滚滚其间。

Never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than then. They were full of hope and fruition. Spite of this frigid winter night in the boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket, there was yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store; and meads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.
这些甜言蜜语对我来说从来没有比那时更甜蜜过。他们充满了希望和成果。尽管在喧闹的大西洋度过了这个寒冷的冬夜，尽管我的脚湿了，夹克也湿了，但在我看来，仍然有许多宜人的避风港在等待着；草地和空地永远都是春天，春天里长出来的草，没有被踏过，没有枯萎，直到仲夏。

At last we gained such an offing, that the two pilots were needed no longer. The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging alongside.
最终我们获得了这样的胜利，不再需要两名飞行员了。陪伴我们的那艘粗壮的帆船开始在旁边行驶。

It was curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at this juncture, especially Captain Bildad. For loath to depart, yet; very loath to leave, for good, a ship bound on so long and perilous a voyage—beyond both stormy Capes; a ship in which some thousands of his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in which an old shipmate sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once more starting to encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say good-bye to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him,—poor old Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides; ran down into the cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and looked to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only bounded by the far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards the land; looked aloft; looked right and left; looked everywhere and nowhere; and at last, mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg by the hand, and holding up a lantern, for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say, ‘Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can.’
法勒和比勒达在这个时刻受到了怎样的影响，尤其是比勒达上尉，这很奇怪，但也并不令人不快。还不愿离开；非常不愿意永远离开这艘船，驶过如此漫长而危险的航程——越过两个风雨如磐的海角；一艘用他辛苦赚来的数千美元投资的船；一艘船，由一位老船友担任船长；一个几乎和他一样老的人，再次开始遭遇无情下巴的所有恐惧；不愿意对这一切充满兴趣的事物说再见，可怜的老比勒达逗留了很长时间；焦急地在甲板上踱步；跑进船舱，在那里又说了一句告别的话；再次来到甲板上，朝上风方向望去。放眼望去，一望无际的大海，只有遥远而看不见的东方大陆；目光投向陆地；向高处望去；左顾右盼；到处看了又无处可去；最后，机械地把一根绳子卷在销钉上，痉挛地抓住粗壮的法勒格的手，举起一盏灯笼，英勇地站了一会儿，凝视着他的脸，仿佛在说：“尽管如此，法勒克朋友，我可以忍受;我可以。'

As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lantern came too near. And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck—now a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.
至于法莱格本人，他更像是一位哲学家。但尽管他的哲学如此，当灯笼太近时，他的眼中闪烁着泪水。他也从船舱跑到了甲板——时而在下面说一句话，时而与大副斯塔巴克说一句话。

But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about him,—‘Captain Bildad—come, old shipmate, we must go. Back the main-yard there! Boat ahoy! Stand by to come close alongside, now! Careful, careful!—come, Bildad, boy—say your last. Luck to ye, Starbuck—luck to ye, Mr. Stubb—luck to ye, Mr. Flask—good-bye and good luck to ye all—and this day three years I’ll have a hot supper smoking for ye in old Nantucket. Hurrah and away!’
但最后，他转向他的战友，脸上露出了最后的神情：“比尔达船长——来吧，老船友，我们必须走了。”回到主院！船啊嘿！现在就站在旁边靠近吧！小心，小心！——来吧，比尔达，孩子——说最后一句话。祝你好运，星巴克——祝你好运，斯塔布先生——祝你好运，弗拉斯克先生——再见，祝大家好运——三年后的今天，我将在老楠塔基特为你们吃一顿热腾腾的晚餐。万岁，走吧！

‘God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men,’ murmured old Bildad, almost incoherently. ‘I hope ye’ll have fine weather now, so that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye—a pleasant sun is all he needs, and ye’ll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go. Be careful in the hunt, ye mates. Don’t stave the boats needlessly, ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent. within the year. Don’t forget your prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, mind that cooper don’t waste the spare staves. Oh! the sail-needles are in the green locker! Don’t whale it too much a’ Lord’s days, men; but don’t miss a fair chance either, that’s rejecting Heaven’s good gifts. Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky, I thought. If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication. Good-bye, good-bye! Don’t keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr. Starbuck; it’ll spoil. Be careful with the butter—twenty cents the pound it was, and mind ye, if—’
“上帝保佑你们，让你们受到他神圣的保护，伙计们，”老比勒达低声说道，语气几乎是语无伦次。 “我希望你们现在天气晴朗，这样亚哈船长很快就会在你们中间移动——他所需要的只是宜人的阳光，你们在热带航行中也会有很多这样的阳光。”狩猎时要小心，伙伴们。鱼叉手们，不要不必要地破坏船只；好的白雪松木板凸起了百分之三。年内。也不要忘记你的祈祷。斯塔巴克先生，请注意库珀不要浪费多余的木板。哦！帆针在绿色的储物柜里！伙计们，不要在主日过分贪图。但也不要错过一个公平的机会，那就是拒绝上天的恩赐。留意糖蜜三层，斯塔布先生；我想，有点漏水了。如果你触摸这些岛屿，弗拉斯克先生，请小心通奸。再见，再见！星巴克先生，不要把奶酪放在货舱里太久。它会变质的。小心黄油——二十美分一磅，请注意，如果——”

‘Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering,—away!’ and with that, Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the boat.
“来吧，来吧，比勒达船长；别再胡言乱语了——走开！’说完，法莱格催促他到了船边，两人都跳进了船上。

Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave three heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic.
船与船分开了；寒冷潮湿的夜风吹过；一只尖叫的海鸥从头顶飞过；两艘船体剧烈地翻滚。我们沉重地欢呼了三声，盲目地像命运一样坠入了孤独的大西洋。

Chapter 23
第23章

The Lee Shore.
李岸。

Some chapters back, one Bulkington was spoken of, a tall, newlanded mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.
前几章曾提到过一位布尔金顿，他是一位身材高大的新来的水手，在新贝德福德的旅馆里遇到了他。

When on that shivering winter’s night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive bows into the cold malicious waves, who should I see standing at her helm but Bulkington! I looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years’ dangerous voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another tempestuous term. The land seemed scorching to his feet. Wonderfullest things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington. Let me only say that it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably drives along the leeward land. The port would fain give succor; the port is pitiful; in the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends, all that’s kind to our mortalities. But in that gale, the port, the land, is that ship’s direst jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of land, though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and through. With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing, fights ‘gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeks all the lashed sea’s landlessness again; for refuge’s sake forlornly rushing into peril; her only friend her bitterest foe!
当在那个瑟瑟发抖的冬夜，裴廓德号将她充满仇恨的船头刺入冰冷恶毒的波浪中时，除了布尔金顿之外，我还能看到谁站在她的掌舵位置呢！我怀着同情、敬畏和恐惧的心情看着这个人，他在隆冬刚刚结束了四年的危险航行，却又如此不安地再次踏上另一个动荡的任期。大地似乎在他脚下灼烧。最美妙的事情往往是难以言表的；深刻的记忆不会产生墓志铭；这个六英寸长的章节是布尔金顿的无石坟墓。我只想说，他的遭遇就像那艘被暴风雨颠簸的船，沿着背风的土地悲惨地行驶。港口很乐意提供援助；港口可怜；港口里有安全、舒适、炉石、晚餐、温暖的毯子、朋友，所有这些对我们凡人来说都是仁慈的。但在那场大风中，港口、陆地，才是那艘船最可怕的危险；她必须不顾一切热情好客；只要轻轻一触土地，尽管只是擦过龙骨，就会让她全身颤抖。她竭尽全力将众人驶离海岸；在这样做的过程中，“与那些很想把她吹回家的风进行斗争”；再次寻找所有被鞭打的大海的无地；为了避难而孤苦地闯入危险；她唯一的朋友，她最大的敌人！

Know ye now, Bulkington? Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea; while the wildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the treacherous, slavish shore?
现在知道了吗，布尔金顿？你似乎瞥见了这个令人难以忍受的事实；所有深刻、认真的思考都不过是灵魂为保持大海的开放独立而做出的无畏努力；天地间最狂野的狂风密谋将她抛到危险、奴性的海岸上？

But as in landlessness alone resides highest truth, shoreless, indefinite as God—so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite, than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety! For worm-like, then, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of the terrible! is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart, O Bulkington! Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy ocean-perishing—straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
但是，正如只有在无地的情况下才存在最高的真理，像上帝一样无边无际，无限期——所以，最好是在那呼啸的无限中灭亡，而不是不光彩地摔在下风处，即使那是安全的！对于虫状的话，哦！谁会害怕爬上岸呢！恐怖中的恐怖！难道这一切的痛苦都是徒劳的吗？鼓起勇气，鼓起勇气，哦，布尔金顿！严酷地忍受你吧，半神！从你海洋毁灭的浪花中升起——笔直向上，跃出你的神化！

Chapter 24
第24章

The Advocate.
倡导者。

As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling; and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore, I am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice hereby done to us hunters of whales.
由于奎魁格和我现在已经开始从事捕鲸事业了；由于捕鲸业不知为何在陆地上被认为是一种相当缺乏诗意和声名狼藉的活动；因此，我非常渴望让你们，你们这些土地居民，相信我们捕鲸者所遭受的不公正待遇。

In the first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish the fact, that among people at large, the business of whaling is not accounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions. If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society, it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, were he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation of the naval officers he should append the initials S.W.F. (Sperm Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.
首先，确定这样一个事实几乎是多余的：在广大人民中，捕鲸业并不与所谓的自由职业处于同一水平。如果一个陌生人被介绍到任何一个形形色色的大都市社会，那么，如果他以标枪手的身份被介绍给公司，那么人们对他的优点的普遍看法只会略有提高；如果模仿海军军官，他应该加上姓名首字母 S.W.F. （抹香鲸渔业）在他的名片上，这样的程序将被认为是极其自以为是和荒谬的。

Doubtless one leading reason why the world declines honouring us whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our vocation amounts to a butchering sort of business; and that when actively engaged therein, we are surrounded by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that is true. But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge have been all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honour. And as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown, and which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship at least among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth. But even granting the charge in question to be true; what disordered slippery decks of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle-fields from which so many soldiers return to drink in all ladies’ plaudits? And if the idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit of the soldier’s profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to a battery, would quickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale’s vast tail, fanning into eddies the air over his head. For what are the comprehensible terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and wonders of God!
毫无疑问，世界拒绝尊重我们捕鲸人的一个主要原因是：他们认为，我们的职业充其量只是一种屠宰行业；当我们积极投入其中时，我们就会被各种烦恼所包围。我们是屠夫，这是事实。但屠夫，以及最血腥徽章的屠夫，都是全世界都乐于尊敬的所有军事指挥官。至于所谓的我们业务不洁的问题，你们很快就会了解到某些迄今为止普遍未知的事实，总的来说，这些事实将成功地将抹香鲸船至少列为这个整洁的最干净的事物之一。地球。但即使承认有关指控属实；捕鲸船上凌乱、滑溜的甲板有什么能与战场上难以形容的腐肉相比呢？战场上有那么多士兵从所有女士的喝彩中归来喝酒？如果危险的观念如此强烈地增强了士兵职业的普遍自负；让我向你们保证，许多自由行进到炮台前的老兵，在抹香鲸巨大的尾巴出现时会很快后退，尾巴在他头顶上的空气中扇动成漩涡。与上帝相互关联的恐惧和奇迹相比，人类的恐惧又算得了什么！

But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding adoration! for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round the globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!
但是，尽管全世界都在监视我们这些捕鲸者，但却在不知不觉中向我们表达了最深切的敬意；是的，一种无比的崇拜！因为几乎所有在全球各地燃烧的蜡烛、灯和蜡烛，都像在许多圣殿之前一样，为了我们的荣耀而燃烧！

But look at this matter in other lights; weigh it in all sorts of scales; see what we whalemen are, and have been.
但从另一个角度来看这件事；用各种秤称重；看看我们现在和过去的捕鲸人是什么样的。

Why did the Dutch in De Witt’s time have admirals of their whaling fleets? Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fit out whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two of families from our own island of Nantucket? Why did Britain between the years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties upwards of L1,000,000? And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of America now outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world; sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen thousand men; yearly consuming 4,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth, at the time of sailing, $20,000,000! and every year importing into our harbors a well reaped harvest of $7,000,000. How comes all this, if there be not something puissant in whaling?
为什么德威特时代的荷兰人有捕鲸船队的海军上将？路易十六为何如此。法国总统自费从敦刻尔克装备捕鲸船，并礼貌地邀请来自我们自己的楠塔基特岛的一两个家庭到那个城镇？为什么英国在 1750 年至 1788 年间向捕鲸者支付高达 1,000,000 英镑的赏金？最后，为什么我们美国捕鲸者的数量现在超过了世界上所有其他带状捕鲸者？航行超过七百艘船只的海军；拥有一万八千人；每年消耗4,000,000美元；这些船在航行时价值 20,000,000 美元！每年进口到我们港口的货物都有 7,000,000 美元的丰收。如果捕鲸业没有什么强大的力量，怎么会出现这一切呢？

But this is not the half; look again.
但这还不是一半。再看看。

I freely assert, that the cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life, point out one single peaceful influence, which within the last sixty years has operated more potentially upon the whole broad world, taken in one aggregate, than the high and mighty business of whaling. One way and another, it has begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and so continuously momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling may well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore offspring themselves pregnant from her womb. It would be a hopeless, endless task to catalogue all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and least known parts of the earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoes which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. If American and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors, let them fire salutes to the honour and glory of the whale-ship, which originally showed them the way, and first interpreted between them and the savages. They may celebrate as they will the heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but I say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out of Nantucket, that were as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern. For in their succourless empty-handedness, they, in the heathenish sharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands, battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cook with all his marines and muskets would not willingly have dared. All that is made such a flourish of in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the life-time commonplaces of our heroic Nantucketers. Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates three chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the ship’s common log. Ah, the world! Oh, the world!
我敢断言，世界主义哲学家一生都无法指出一种和平的影响力，这种影响力在过去六十年里对整个广阔的世界产生了比捕鲸业更强大的影响力。 。无论如何，它所引发的事件本身是如此引人注目，而且在其后续问题中又如此持续重要，以至于捕鲸很可能被视为埃及母亲，她从子宫里孕育了后代。对所有这些东西进行编目将是一项无望且无休止的任务。一把就够了。多年来，捕鲸船一直是搜寻地球上最偏远和最不为人知的地区的先驱。她探索了没有海图的海洋和群岛，库克和温哥华都没有航行过这些地方。如果美国和欧洲的战舰现在和平地驶入曾经野蛮的港口，让他们向鲸船的荣誉和荣耀致敬，鲸船最初为他们指明了道路，并首先在他们和野蛮人之间进行解释。他们可能会像庆祝探险队的英雄、你们的厨师、你们的克鲁森斯特恩一样庆祝；但我要说的是，有许多匿名船长已经从楠塔基特出发，他们与你们的库克和克鲁森斯特恩一样伟大，甚至更伟大。因为他们空手而归，在异教徒的鲨鱼般的水域中，在没有记录的标枪群岛的海滩上，与库克和他所有的海军陆战队员和步枪都不敢冒险的处女奇迹和恐怖进行了战斗。在古老的南海航海中，所有这些都如此繁荣，但这些东西对于我们英雄的楠塔基特人来说却是一生的司空见惯。 通常，温哥华用三章来讲述这些人的冒险经历，但这些人不值得被记录在船上的共同航海日志中。啊，世界！哦，世界！

Until the whale fishery rounded Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, scarcely any intercourse but colonial, was carried on between Europe and the long line of the opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacific coast. It was the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policy of the Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if space permitted, it might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last eventuated the liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old Spain, and the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.
在鲸鱼捕捞绕过合恩角之前，欧洲和太平洋沿岸富裕的西班牙省份之间除了殖民之外没有任何商业活动，除了殖民之外几乎没有任何交往。正是捕鲸人首先突破了西班牙王室的嫉妒政策，触及了这些殖民地；如果篇幅允许，可以清楚地展示这些捕鲸者如何最终将秘鲁、智利和玻利维亚从旧西班牙的枷锁中解放出来，并在这些地区建立了永恒的民主。

That great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given to the enlightened world by the whaleman. After its first blunder-born discovery by a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores as pestiferously barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there. The whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony. Moreover, in the infancy of the first Australian settlement, the emigrants were several times saved from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in their waters. The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the same truth, and do commercial homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way for the missionary and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive missionaries to their first destinations. If that double-bolted land, Japan, is ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit will be due; for already she is on the threshold.
球体另一边的伟大美国——澳大利亚，是捕鲸人送给开明世界的。在荷兰人第一次错误地发现了它之后，所有其他船只长期以来都避开了这些海岸，因为它们是瘟疫肆虐的野蛮之地。但捕鲸船却触及了那里。捕鲸船是现在强大的殖民地的真正母亲。此外，在澳大利亚第一个定居点的初期，移民们曾多次被幸运地在他们的水域抛锚的捕鲸船的仁慈饼干从饥饿中解救出来。波利尼西亚无数的岛屿都承认同样的真理，并对鲸船表示商业敬意，鲸船为传教士和商人扫清了道路，在许多情况下将原始传教士带到了他们的第一个目的地。如果日本这片双锁的土地永远变得热情好客，那么这艘捕鲸船就应该得到功劳。因为她已经站在门槛上了。

But if, in the face of all this, you still declare that whaling has no aesthetically noble associations connected with it, then am I ready to shiver fifty lances with you there, and unhorse you with a split helmet every time.
但是，如果面对这一切，你仍然声称捕鲸与美学上的高贵联系没有联系，那么我准备好与你一起颤抖五十支长矛，每次都用分裂的头盔将你打倒。

The whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you will say.
你可能会说，鲸鱼没有著名的作家，捕鲸也没有著名的编年史家。

THE WHALE NO FAMOUS AUTHOR, AND WHALING NO FAMOUS CHRONICLER? Who wrote the first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty Job! And who composed the first narrative of a whaling-voyage? Who, but no less a prince than Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter of those times! And who pronounced our glowing eulogy in Parliament? Who, but Edmund Burke!
鲸鱼没有著名作家，捕鲸也没有著名编年史家？谁写了我们利维坦的第一个记述？除了伟大的约伯，还有谁呢！谁撰写了第一个捕鲸航行的故事？他，不亚于阿尔弗雷德大帝，他用自己的皇家笔记下了当时挪威鲸鱼猎人奥瑟的话！谁在议会发表了我们热情洋溢的悼词？谁，除了埃德蒙·伯克！

True enough, but then whalemen themselves are poor devils; they have no good blood in their veins.
确实如此，但捕鲸者本身也是可怜的魔鬼。他们的血管里没有好的血液。

NO GOOD BLOOD IN THEIR VEINS? They have something better than royal blood there. The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel; afterwards, by marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a long line of Folgers and harpooneers—all kith and kin to noble Benjamin—this day darting the barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
他们的血管里没有好的血液吗？他们那里有比皇室血统更好的东西。本杰明·富兰克林的祖母是玛丽·莫雷尔；后来，通过婚姻，玛丽·福尔格（Mary Folger），楠塔基特岛的一位老定居者，也是一长串福尔格和标枪手的祖先——他们都是高贵的本杰明的亲戚——这一天，她将带刺的铁从世界的一边飞向另一边。其他。

Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not respectable.
又好；但随后所有人都承认捕鲸是不值得尊重的。

WHALING NOT RESPECTABLE? Whaling is imperial! By old English statutory law, the whale is declared ‘a royal fish.’*
捕鲸不值得尊重？捕鲸是帝国主义的！根据古老的英国成文法，鲸鱼被宣布为“皇家鱼类”。*

Oh, that’s only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in any grand imposing way.
哦，这只是名义上的！鲸鱼本身从来没有以任何宏伟的方式出现过。

THE WHALE NEVER FIGURED IN ANY GRAND IMPOSING WAY? In one of the mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world’s capital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian coast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.*
鲸鱼从未以任何宏伟的方式出现过？在一位罗马将军进入世界首都后所获得的巨大胜利中，一头从叙利亚海岸一路运来的鲸鱼骨头，成为了铙钹游行队伍中最引人注目的物体。*

*See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
*有关此主题的更多信息，请参阅后续章节。

Grant it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real dignity in whaling.
承认吧，既然你引用了它；但是，无论你怎么说，捕鲸并没有真正的尊严。

NO DIGNITY IN WHALING? The dignity of our calling the very heavens attest. Cetus is a constellation in the South! No more! Drive down your hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! I know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty whales. I account that man more honourable than that great captain of antiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns.
捕鲸没有尊严？我们呼召诸天的尊严就已得到证明。鲸鱼座是南方的一个星座！不再！在沙皇面前放下你的帽子，然后把它摘下来带到魁魁格！不再！我认识一个人，他一生中捕获了三百五十条鲸鱼。我认为这个人比那位吹嘘占领了那么多城墙城镇的古代伟大统帅还要光荣。

And, as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall ever deserve any real repute in that small but high hushed world which I might not be unreasonably ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, a man might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at my death, my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. in my desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honour and the glory to whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
至于我，如果有任何可能，我身上有任何尚未被发现的主要东西的话；如果我在那个小而高度安静的世界中值得拥有任何真正的声誉，我可能不会无理地野心勃勃；如果此后我要做的事情，总的来说，一个人宁愿做也不愿不做；如果在我去世时，我的遗嘱执行人，或者更准确地说是我的债权人，找到任何宝贵的 MSS。在我的办公桌上，那么我在这里预期将所有的荣誉和荣耀归于捕鲸；因为一艘捕鲸船就是我的耶鲁大学和我的哈佛。

Chapter 25
第25章

Postscript.
后记。

In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught but substantiated facts. But after embattling his facts, an advocate who should wholly suppress a not unreasonable surmise, which might tell eloquently upon his cause—such an advocate, would he not be blameworthy?
为了维护捕鲸业的尊严，​​我只想提出经过证实的事实。但在论证了他的事实之后，一个辩护人应该完全压制一个并非无理的推测，而这个推测可能雄辩地说明他的理由——这样的辩护人，他难道不应该受到谴责吗？

It is well known that at the coronation of kings and queens, even modern ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for their functions is gone through. There is a saltcellar of state, so called, and there may be a castor of state. How they use the salt, precisely—who knows? Certain I am, however, that a king’s head is solemnly oiled at his coronation, even as a head of salad. Can it be, though, that they anoint it with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint machinery? Much might be ruminated here, concerning the essential dignity of this regal process, because in common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably smells of that anointing. In truth, a mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got a quoggy spot in him somewhere. As a general rule, he can’t amount to much in his totality.
众所周知，在国王和王后的加冕典礼上，即使是现代的国王和王后，也会经历某种奇怪的过程，为他们的职能进行调味。有一个所谓的国家盐窖，也可能有一个国家蓖麻。他们到底如何使用盐——谁知道呢？然而，我确信国王的头在加冕典礼上会被庄严地涂上油，即使是作为沙拉头。难道，他们涂油的目的是为了让它的内部运转良好，就像他们涂油机械一样吗？关于这一王室过程的基本尊严，这里可能会引起很多思考，因为在日常生活中，我们尊敬但卑鄙而轻蔑的人，他在头发上涂油，并明显闻到这种油的气味。事实上，一个使用发油的成熟男人，除非是药物性的，否则这个男人身上很可能有某个地方有肿块。一般来说，他整体上并不能做出多大的贡献。

But the only thing to be considered here, is this—what kind of oil is used at coronations? Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar oil, nor castor oil, nor bear’s oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil. What then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted state, the sweetest of all oils?
但这里唯一需要考虑的是——加冕时使用什么样的油？当然它不可能是橄榄油、望卡萨油、蓖麻油、熊油、火车油、鱼肝油。那么，除了未加工、未受污染的鲸蜡油之外，它还能是所有油类中最甜的吗？

Think of that, ye loyal Britons! we whalemen supply your kings and queens with coronation stuff!
想想看，你们这些忠诚的英国人！我们捕鲸人为你们的国王和王后提供加冕物品！

Chapter 26
第26章

Knights and Squires.
骑士和侍从。

The chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent. He was a long, earnest man, and though born on an icy coast, seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes, his flesh being hard as twice-baked biscuit. Transported to the Indies, his live blood would not spoil like bottled ale. He must have been born in some time of general drought and famine, or upon one of those fast days for which his state is famous. Only some thirty arid summers had he seen; those summers had dried up all his physical superfluousness. But this, his thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties and cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight. It was merely the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking; quite the contrary. His pure tight skin was an excellent fit; and closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and strength, like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to do well in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds. Yet, for all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in him which at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly incline him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some organizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than from ignorance. Outward portents and inward presentiments were his. And if at times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more did his far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him still more from the original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still further to those latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men, restrain the gush of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery. ‘I will have no man in my boat,’ said Starbuck, ‘who is not afraid of a whale.’ By this, he seemed to mean, not only that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises from the fair estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly fearless man is a far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
裴阔德号的大副是斯塔巴克，他是楠塔基特岛人，也是贵格会教徒。他是个身材高大、认真的人，虽然出生在冰冷的海岸，但似乎很适合忍受炎热的纬度，他的肉体像两次烘烤的饼干一样坚硬。运到印度群岛后，他的活血不会像瓶装啤酒一样变质。他一定出生在普遍干旱和饥荒的某个时期，或者是他的州因斋戒而闻名的日子之一。他只见过大约三十个干旱的夏天；那些夏天耗尽了他多余的体力。但可以说，他的瘦弱似乎并不意味着焦虑和忧虑的浪费，也不像任何身体疾病的迹象。那只是男人的凝结。他的相貌一点也不难看。恰恰相反。他纯净紧致的皮肤非常适合；紧紧地包裹在其中，并充满了内在的健康和力量，就像一个复活的埃及人一样，这家星巴克似乎准备好在未来的很长一段时间内持续下去，并且永远持续下去，就像现在一样。无论是极地雪天还是烈日炎炎，就像专利精密计时器一样，他的内在活力保证在所有气候下都能表现良好。看着他的眼睛，你仿佛能看到他一生中平静地面对过的千重危险的影像。一个稳重、坚定的人，他的生活大部分都是一部生动的动作哑剧，而不是一个平淡的声音篇章。然而，尽管他坚强、清醒、坚韧，但他身上的某些品质有时会产生影响，在某些情况下似乎几乎压倒了其他所有品质。 作为一名海员，他异常尽责，并怀有深深的自然崇敬之情，但他生活中狂野的水般孤独，却使他强烈地倾向于迷信。但在某些组织中，这种迷信似乎是出于智慧而不是无知。外在的预兆和内心的预感都是他的。如果这些事情有时会弯曲他灵魂的铁焊，那么他对年轻的开普妻子和孩子的远方家庭记忆，更会使他更加弯曲，使他远离他最初的粗犷本性，并使他更加开放。那些潜在的影响，在一些诚实的人身上，抑制了大胆的勇气，而其他人在渔业更危险的变迁中经常表现出这种勇气。斯塔巴克说：“我的船上不会有不怕鲸鱼的人。”他的意思似乎不仅是，最可靠和最有用的勇气是来自对鲸鱼的公正估计的勇气。遇到的危险，但是一个完全无所畏惧的人是一个比懦夫更危险的同志。

‘Aye, aye,’ said Stubb, the second mate, ‘Starbuck, there, is as careful a man as you’ll find anywhere in this fishery.’ But we shall ere long see what that word ‘careful’ precisely means when used by a man like Stubb, or almost any other whale hunter.
“是的，是的，”二副斯塔布说，“斯塔巴克是这个渔业中最细心的人。”但我们很快就会看到“小心”这个词在使用时的确切含义。像斯塔布这样的人，或者几乎任何其他鲸鱼猎人。

Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him courage was not a sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always at hand upon all mortally practical occasions. Besides, he thought, perhaps, that in this business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits of the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted. Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor for persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting him. For, thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill whales for my living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that hundreds of men had been so killed Starbuck well knew. What doom was his own father’s? Where, in the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of his brother?
星巴克并不是经历过危险之后的十字军东征。对他而言，勇气并不是一种情感；而是一种情感。但这只是对他有用的东西，并且在所有致命的实际场合总是可用的。此外，他认为，也许在捕鲸业中，勇气是船上最重要的装备之一，就像她的牛肉和面包一样，不能愚蠢地浪费。因此，他不想在日落后下潜捕鲸。也不是因为坚持与一条鱼战斗而太过坚持与他战斗。斯塔巴克想，因为我来到这片危急的海洋，是为了谋生而捕杀鲸鱼，而不是为了谋生而被鲸鱼捕杀。星巴克清楚地知道有数百人被杀。他自己的父亲有什么厄运？在无底的深渊里，哪里能找到他兄弟被撕裂的肢体？

With memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme. But it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such terrible experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in him, which, under suitable circumstances, would break out from its confinement, and burn all his courage up. And brave as he might be, it was that sort of bravery chiefly, visible in some intrepid men, which, while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas, or winds, or whales, or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world, yet cannot withstand those more terrific, because more spiritual terrors, which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and mighty man.
他身上有这样的记忆，此外，如前所述，他还具有一定的迷信性。然而，这家星巴克仍然能够蓬勃发展，其勇气确实是极端的。但一个人如此有条理、有如此可怕的经历和记忆，这在本质上是不合理的。这些东西自然会在他身上潜在地产生一种元素，在适当的情况下，这种元素会冲破束缚，燃烧掉他所有的勇气。尽管他可能很勇敢，但主要是那种勇敢，在一些勇敢的人身上可见，虽然他们通常在与海洋、风、鲸鱼或世界上任何普通的非理性恐怖的冲突中坚定不移，但无法承受那些更可怕的事情，因为更多的精神恐惧，有时会从一个愤怒而强大的人集中的眉头威胁你。

But were the coming narrative to reveal in any instance, the complete abasement of poor Starbuck’s fortitude, scarce might I have the heart to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose the fall of valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable as joint stock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be; men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw their costliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of a valor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight, completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars. But this august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt see it shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself! The great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all democracy! His omnipresence, our divine equality!
但如果接下来的叙述在任何情况下都揭示了可怜的星巴克的毅力完全被贬低，我几乎没有勇气写它；因为揭露灵魂中勇气的堕落是一件最悲伤的事情，甚至是令人震惊的事情。作为股份公司和国家，男人可能看起来是可憎的。可能有恶棍、傻瓜和杀人犯；男人可能有卑鄙、微薄的面孔；但在理想中，人是那么高贵、那么光彩夺目、那么伟大、那么光彩夺目，以至于他身上任何不光彩的瑕疵，他的所有同伴都应该跑去扔掉他们最昂贵的长袍。我们内心感受到的那种完美的男子气概，到目前为止，尽管所有外在特征似乎都消失了，但它仍然完好无损。看到一个失去勇气的男人赤身裸体的样子，他感到极度痛苦，流血。面对如此可耻的景象，虔诚本身也不能完全抑制她对允许的星星的谴责。但我所说的这种庄严的尊严，不是国王和袍子的尊严，而是没有袍子授予的那种充沛的尊严。你会看到它在挥舞镐或钉钉子的手臂上闪闪发光；从各方面来说，民主的尊严都是从上帝那里散发出来的；他自己！绝对的大神！一切民主的中心和圆周！他的无所不在，我们神圣的平等！

If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and castaways, I shall hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round them tragic graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased, among them all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall touch that workman’s arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a rainbow over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear me out in it, thou Just Spirit of Equality, which hast spread one royal mantle of humanity over all my kind! Bear me out in it, thou great democratic God! who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the pale, poetic pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves of finest gold, the stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst thunder him higher than a throne! Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear me out in it, O God!
那么，如果说，对于最卑鄙的水手、叛徒和漂流者，我此后将赋予他们高品质，尽管是黑暗的；为他们编织悲剧的恩典；即使是他们当中最悲痛的人，也许是最卑微的人，有时也会将自己提升到崇高的境界；如果我用某种空灵的光芒触摸那个工人的手臂；如果我在他灾难性的夕阳上撒下一道彩虹；那么，反对所有凡人的批评家，你公正的平等精神，为我所有的同类铺上了一层人性的皇家斗篷！伟大民主的上帝啊，请支持我！谁没有拒绝那个阴暗的罪犯班扬，这颗苍白而富有诗意的珍珠；你穿着双锤打制的上等金叶，是老塞万提斯那只断肢的、赤贫的手臂；你从鹅卵石中救出了安德鲁·杰克逊；是谁把他扔到战马上的？谁把他打得比王座还高！您在您所有强大的尘世行军中，始终从国王的公地中挑选出您最优秀的勇士；上帝啊，请支持我！

Chapter 27
第27章

Knights and Squires.
骑士和侍从。

Stubb was the second mate. He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence, according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky; neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as they came with an indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of the chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engaged for the year. Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his crew all invited guests. He was as particular about the comfortable arrangement of his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the snugness of his box. When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of the fight, he handled his unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer. He would hum over his old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most exasperated monster. Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death into an easy chair. What he thought of death itself, there is no telling. Whether he ever thought of it at all, might be a question; but, if he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no doubt, like a good sailor, he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there, about something which he would find out when he obeyed the order, and not sooner.
斯塔布是二副。他是科德角人。因此，根据当地的用法，被称为科德角人。一个无忧无虑的人；既不怯懦也不勇敢；他们带着冷漠的神情冒着危险而来；在追逐最迫在眉睫的危机时，他像一年中的熟练木工一样，平静而镇定地辛勤劳作。他幽默、随和、粗心，他主持着他的捕鲸船，就好像最致命的遭遇只是一顿晚餐，他的船员们都邀请了客人。他对船上自己那部分的舒适布置很挑剔，就像一位老舞台司机对他的包厢的舒适程度很挑剔一样。当接近鲸鱼时，在战斗的最后一刻，他冷静而随意地握着他无情的长矛，就像吹口哨修补他的锤子一样。当他与最愤怒的怪物周旋时，他会哼着他那古老的曲调。对于这个斯塔布来说，长期使用已经把死亡之门变成了一把安乐椅。他对死亡本身有何看法，无人知晓。他是否曾经想过这一点，可能是一个问题。但是，如果他在一顿舒适的晚餐后有机会产生这样的想法，毫无疑问，就像一个优秀的水手一样，他认为这是一种值班的召唤，让他在高处翻滚，在那里振作起来，关于一些当他服从命令时，他就会知道，而不是更早。

What, perhaps, with other things, made Stubb such an easy-going, unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off with the burden of life in a world full of grave pedlars, all bowed to the ground with their packs; what helped to bring about that almost impious good-humor of his; that thing must have been his pipe. For, like his nose, his short, black little pipe was one of the regular features of his face. You would almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his nose as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes there ready loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand; and, whenever he turned in, he smoked them all out in succession, lighting one from the other to the end of the chapter; then loading them again to be in readiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.
或许，除了其他因素之外，是什么让斯塔布成为一个如此随和、无所畏惧的人，在一个满是严肃的小贩的世界里如此愉快地背负着生活的重担，他们都带着行李跪在地上？是什么让他产生了近乎不敬虔的好心情？那东西一定是他的烟斗。因为，就像他的鼻子一样，他那又短又黑的小烟斗是他脸上的常见特征之一。你几乎会预料到他会在没有鼻子的情况下和没有烟斗的情况下从铺位上翻身出来。他在那儿放了一整排已经装好的烟斗，卡在架子上，伸手就能拿到。每当他转身时，他都会把它们全部熏完，一个接一个地点燃，直到本章结束。然后再次加载它们以重新做好准备。因为，当斯塔布穿好衣服时，他不是先把腿放进裤子里，而是把烟斗放进嘴里。

I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the cholera, some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their mouths; so, likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb’s tobacco smoke might have operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.
我说，这种持续不断的吸烟至少是造成他特殊性格的原因之一。因为每个人都知道，这种尘世的空气，无论是岸上的还是漂浮的，都受到了无数死于呼出它的凡人的难以名状的痛苦的可怕影响。就像霍乱时期一样，有些人走路时会用手帕捂住嘴。因此，同样地，在面对所有致命的磨难时，斯塔布的烟草烟雾可能起到了一种消毒剂的作用。

The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha’s Vineyard. A short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales, who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it was a sort of point of honour with him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So utterly lost was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majestic bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension of any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion, the wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least water-rat, requiring only a little circumvention and some small application of time and trouble in order to kill and boil. This ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of his made him a little waggish in the matter of whales; he followed these fish for the fun of it; and a three years’ voyage round Cape Horn was only a jolly joke that lasted that length of time. As a carpenter’s nails are divided into wrought nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little Flask was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long. They called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form, he could be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in Arctic whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers inserted into it, serves to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those battering seas.
三副是弗拉斯克，是玛莎葡萄园岛蒂斯伯里人。一个矮小、粗壮、面色红润的年轻人，对鲸鱼非常好斗，不知何故，他似乎认为巨大的利维坦个人和遗传性地冒犯了他；因此，无论何时遇到，消灭它们对他来说都是一种荣誉。他对它们雄伟的体积和神秘的方式的许多奇迹完全失去了敬畏感。对任何事情都漠不关心，比如担心遇到他们可能会遇到危险；在他看来，这头神奇的鲸鱼只不过是一种放大的老鼠，或者至少是水鼠，只需要一点点规避，花点时间和麻烦就可以杀死和煮沸。他这种无知的、无意识的无所畏惧，使他在鲸鱼的问题上有点古怪。他跟着这些鱼是为了好玩。绕合恩角三年的航行只是一个持续了这么长时间的笑话。正如木匠的钉子分为锻钉和切钉；所以人类也可能有类似的分裂。小烧瓶就是其中之一。设计牢固，使用寿命长。裴廓德号上的人称他为“国王波斯特”。因为，从形状上看，他很容易与北极捕鲸船上的短方木相媲美。通过插入其中的许多辐射侧木，可以支撑船只抵御汹涌大海的冰冷冲击。

Now these three mates—Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were momentous men. They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of the Pequod’s boats as headsmen. In that grand order of battle in which Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales, these three headsmen were as captains of companies. Or, being armed with their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers; even as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.
现在，这三位伙伴——斯塔巴克、斯塔布和弗拉斯克，都是举足轻重的人物。按照普遍规定，他们是裴廓德号的三艘船的刽子手。在亚哈船长可能会集结他的部队袭击鲸鱼的宏伟战斗序列中，这三个头目担任连长。或者，他们装备着长而锋利的捕鲸矛，就像是精挑细选的枪骑兵三人组。就像标枪手是标枪投手一样。

And since in this famous fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic Knight of old, is always accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer, who in certain conjunctures provides him with a fresh lance, when the former one has been badly twisted, or elbowed in the assault; and moreover, as there generally subsists between the two, a close intimacy and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in this place we set down who the Pequod’s harpooneers were, and to what headsman each of them belonged.
因为在这个著名的渔业中，每个大副或头领，就像古代的哥特式骑士一样，总是有他的舵手或鱼叉手陪伴，在某些情况下，当前一个鱼叉严重扭曲时，鱼叉手会为他提供一根新的长矛，或在攻击中受到肘击；此外，正如两人之间普遍存在的那样，他们之间有着密切的亲密和友好的关系。因此，在此我们必须记下谁是裴廓德人的标枪手，以及他们各自属于哪个刽子手。

First of all was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, the chief mate, had selected for his squire. But Queequeg is already known.
首先是魁魁格，大副斯塔巴克选他为他的侍从。但奎魁格已经为人所知。

Next was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly promontory of Martha’s Vineyard, where there still exists the last remnant of a village of red men, which has long supplied the neighboring island of Nantucket with many of her most daring harpooneers. In the fishery, they usually go by the generic name of Gay-Headers. Tashtego’s long, lean, sable hair, his high cheek bones, and black rounding eyes—for an Indian, Oriental in their largeness, but Antarctic in their glittering expression—all this sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those proud warrior hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, had scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main. But no longer snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now hunted in the wake of the great whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon of the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires. To look at the tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, and half-believed this wild Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powers of the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second mate’s squire.
接下来是塔什特戈（Tashtego），他是来自盖伊角（Gay Head）的纯种印第安人，盖伊角是玛莎葡萄园岛最西端的海角，那里仍然存在着一个红人村庄的最后残余，长期以来，这个村庄一直为邻近的楠塔基特岛提供了许多最勇敢的标枪手。在渔业中，它们通常被称为“Gay-Headers”。塔什特戈有着又长又瘦的黑貂色头发，高高的颧骨，黑色的圆眼睛——对于印度人来说，眼睛很大，是东方人的，但闪闪发光的表情却像南极人——所有这些都足以宣告他是那些骄傲的武士猎人的纯正血统的继承者。为了寻找伟大的新英格兰驼鹿，他手持弓，搜遍了主要的原始森林。但塔什特戈不再追寻林地野兽的踪迹，而是追随海洋中巨鲸的踪迹而狩猎。儿子的无误鱼叉恰好取代了父亲无误的箭。看到他黄褐色的肌肉和柔软的蛇形四肢，你几乎会相信一些早期清教徒的迷信，并且半信半疑地相信这个野生印第安人是空中力量王子的儿子。塔什特戈是二副斯塔布的侍从。

Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black negro-savage, with a lion-like tread—an Ahasuerus to behold. Suspended from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called them ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to them. In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler, lying in a lonely bay on his native coast. And never having been anywhere in the world but in Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues, and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in all the pomp of six feet five in his socks. There was a corporeal humility in looking up at him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to beg truce of a fortress. Curious to tell, this imperial negro, Ahasuerus Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man beside him. As for the residue of the Pequod’s company, be it said, that at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though pretty nearly all the officers are. Herein it is the same with the American whale fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies, and the engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and Railroads. The same, I say, because in all these cases the native American liberally provides the brains, the rest of the world as generously supplying the muscles. No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores, where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores. In like manner, the Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland Islands, to receive the full complement of their crew. Upon the passage homewards, they drop them there again. How it is, there is no telling, but Islanders seem to make the best whalemen. They were nearly all Islanders in the Pequod, ISOLATOES too, I call such, not acknowledging the common continent of men, but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his own. Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were! An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea, and all the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the world’s grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever come back. Black Little Pip—he never did—oh, no! he went before. Poor Alabama boy! On the grim Pequod’s forecastle, ye shall ere long see him, beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when sent for, to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with angels, and beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward here, hailed a hero there!
标枪手中排名第三的是达古（Dagoo），他是一个巨大的、煤黑色的黑人野蛮人，迈着狮子般的步伐——一看就是亚哈随鲁王。他的耳朵上挂着两个金箍，它们太大了，水手们称它们为环形螺栓，并谈论将中帆升降索固定在它们上。年轻时，达古自愿登上一艘捕鲸船，停泊在他家乡海岸的一个偏僻的海湾里。除了非洲、楠塔基特岛和捕鲸人最常光顾的异教港口之外，我从未去过世界上任何地方；多年来，船主们在船上过着大胆的渔业生活，他们对所运送的人员的态度异常留意。达古保留了他所有的野蛮美德，像长颈鹿一样直立，穿着袜子，在甲板上走来走去，身形六英尺五。抬头看着他，有一种肉体上的谦卑。一个白人站在他面前，仿佛一面白旗前来向要塞求和。奇怪的是，这位帝国黑人亚哈随鲁·达古（Ahasuerus Daggoo）是小弗拉斯克的乡绅，他在他身边看起来就像一个棋子。至于“裴阔德”号连队的残余人员，可以说，如今，在美国鲸鱼捕捞业雇用的数千名桅杆前人员中，没有二分之一是美国人出生的，尽管几乎所有军官都是美国人。这与美国的鲸鱼捕捞业、美国陆军、军事和商船以及用于修建美国运河和铁路的工程部队是一样的。我之所以这么说，是因为在所有这些情况下，美洲原住民都慷慨地提供大脑，而世界其他地方则慷慨地提供肌肉。 这些捕鲸海员中有不少来自亚速尔群岛，向外航行的楠塔基特岛捕鲸者经常从那些岩石海岸的顽强农民那里补充船员。同样，格陵兰捕鲸船从赫尔或伦敦出发，停泊在设得兰群岛，接收全部船员。在回家的路上，他们又把它们扔在那里。具体情况如何，我们不得而知，但岛民似乎是最好的捕鲸者。他们几乎都是伯阔德岛的岛民，我也这么称呼“孤立者”，不承认人类共同的大陆，但每个孤立者都生活在自己的独立大陆上。然而现在，这些孤立者沿着一条龙骨联合起来，这是多么美妙的一组啊！阿纳卡西斯·克鲁兹代表团来自大海的各个岛屿和地球的各个角落，伴随着老亚哈乘坐“佩阔德”号，将世界的不满诉诸于那个酒吧，但他们中没有多少人能从那里回来。黑小皮普——他从来没有这样做过——哦，不！他之前去过。可怜的阿拉巴马男孩！在阴森的伯阔德号的艏楼上，你们很快就会看到他敲着手鼓；永恒时间的序曲，当他被派到高处的大尾甲板上时，他被命令与天使一起罢工，并在荣耀中敲响了他的手鼓。这里被称为懦夫，那里被称为英雄！

Chapter 28
第28章

Ahab.
亚哈。

For several days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches was seen of Captain Ahab. The mates regularly relieved each other at the watches, and for aught that could be seen to the contrary, they seemed to be the only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued from the cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was plain they but commanded vicariously. Yes, their supreme lord and dictator was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate into the now sacred retreat of the cabin.
离开楠塔基特岛后的几天里，舱口上方没有看到亚哈船长的踪迹。大副们定期互相值班，尽管有任何相反的情况，但他们似乎是这艘船唯一的指挥官。只是有时他们从船舱里发出的命令是如此突然和专断，以至于很明显他们只是在代理指挥。是的，他们的最高领主和独裁者就在那里，尽管迄今为止还没有任何人看到，不允许进入现在神圣的小屋隐居处。

Every time I ascended to the deck from my watches below, I instantly gazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vague disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of the sea, became almost a perturbation. This was strangely heightened at times by the ragged Elijah’s diabolical incoherences uninvitedly recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived of. But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish prophet of the wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or uneasiness—to call it so—which I felt, yet whenever I came to look about me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such emotions. For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew, were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me acquainted with, still I ascribed this—and rightly ascribed it—to the fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation in which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially the aspect of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most forcibly calculated to allay these colourless misgivings, and induce confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage. Three better, more likely sea-officers and men, each in his own different way, could not readily be found, and they were every one of them Americans; a Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it being Christmas when the ship shot from out her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather, though all the time running away from it to the southward; and by every degree and minute of latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving that merciless winter, and all its intolerable weather behind us. It was one of those less lowering, but still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the transition, when with a fair wind the ship was rushing through the water with a vindictive sort of leaping and melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch, so soon as I levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding shivers ran over me. Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck.
每次我从下面的值班台登上甲板时，我都会立即向船尾望去，看看是否有任何陌生的面孔。因为我第一次接触这位陌生的船长时感到的模糊不安，现在已经在大海的僻静处，几乎变成了一种不安。奇怪的是，有时，衣衫褴褛的以利亚的恶魔般的语无伦次不请自来地在我身上反复出现，带着我以前无法想象的微妙能量，这种感觉更加强烈。但我无力承受它们，就像在其他心情下我几乎准备好对码头那位古怪的先知的庄严异想天开微笑一样。但无论我感受到的是忧虑还是不安——可以这么说——但每当我在船上环顾四周时，似乎都没有理由珍惜这种情绪。因为虽然标枪手和大量船员比我以前的经验所熟悉的任何驯服的商船公司都更加野蛮、异教徒和杂乱无章，但我仍然将这一点归咎于——而且是正确的。我把它归因于我如此放弃地从事的那种狂野的斯堪的纳维亚职业的本质的强烈独特性。但特别是这艘船的三位大副、大副的面容，最有力地消除了这些毫无色彩的疑虑，并在航行的每一次展示中都带来了信心和快乐。三名更好、更有可能的海军军官和水兵，每人都有自己不同的方式，很难找到，而且他们都是美国人。一个楠塔基特人、一个葡萄园主、一个开普敦人。 现在，正值圣诞节，船从她的港口驶出，我们的太空遭遇了刺骨的极地天气，尽管我们一直在逃离它向南行驶；我们航行的每一个纬度、每一分钟，都逐渐把那个无情的冬天和所有难以忍受的天气抛在了身后。那是一个不那么低沉，但仍然足够灰暗和阴沉的过渡早晨之一，当顺风的时候，船以一种报复性的跳跃和忧郁的速度冲过水面，当我登上甲板时，上午更班的钟声响起，当我将目光投向船尾栏杆时，不祥的预感袭上心头。现实战胜了恐惧；亚哈船长站在他的尾甲板上。

There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him, nor of the recovery from any. He looked like a man cut away from the stake, when the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them, or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness. His whole high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an unalterable mould, like Cellini’s cast Perseus. Threading its way out from among his grey hairs, and continuing right down one side of his tawny scorched face and neck, till it disappeared in his clothing, you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly whitish. It resembled that perpendicular seam sometimes made in the straight, lofty trunk of a great tree, when the upper lightning tearingly darts down it, and without wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves out the bark from top to bottom, ere running off into the soil, leaving the tree still greenly alive, but branded. Whether that mark was born with him, or whether it was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one could certainly say. By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no allusion was made to it, especially by the mates. But once Tashtego’s senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that not till he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded, and then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in an elemental strife at sea. Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially negatived, by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab. Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly invested this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment. So that no white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain Ahab should be tranquilly laid out—which might hardly come to pass, so he muttered—then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole.
他身上似乎没有任何常见的身体疾病的迹象，也没有任何康复的迹象。他看起来就像一个从木桩上被砍下来的人，大火烧尽了所有的肢体，但没有烧毁它们，也没有从它们压实的老化坚固中带走一粒颗粒。他整个高大而宽阔的身躯，似乎是由坚固的青铜制成，并在一个不可改变的模具中塑造而成，就像切利尼铸造的珀尔修斯一样。从他灰白的头发中穿过，一直延伸到他黄褐色烧焦的脸和脖子的一侧，直到消失在他的衣服里，你看到了一个细长的杆状痕迹，呈青白色。它就像有时在一棵大树笔直、高大的树干上形成的垂直接缝，当上面的闪电撕裂地从树干上飞下来时，没有扭断任何一根树枝，从上到下剥落并刻出树皮，然后流进树干。土壤，让树仍然绿意盎然，但被打上了烙印。那个印记到底是他与生俱来的，还是绝望的伤口留下的伤疤，谁也说不准。出于某种默契，整个航程中很少或根本没有提及此事，尤其是大副。但有一次，塔什特戈的前辈，船员中的一位老同性恋印第安人，迷信地断言，直到他满四十岁时，亚哈才被打上这样的烙印，然后它就降临在他身上，不是在任何凡人争斗的愤怒中，而是在他身上。在海上的自然冲突中。然而，这个狂野的暗示似乎被一个灰色的马恩岛人所暗示的否定了，这个老人是一个阴森的老人，以前从未离开过楠塔基特岛，在此之前也从未见过狂野的亚哈。然而，古老的航海传统和远古的轻信普遍赋予了这位老马恩岛人超自然的洞察力。 因此，当他说，如果亚哈船长应该被平静地安放在床上时，没有哪个白人水手会认真反驳他——这可能很难实现，他嘀咕道——那么，无论谁为死者做最后的工作，都会找到出生——从头顶到脚底都在他身上做标记。

So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and the livid brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardly noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood. It had previously come to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished bone of the sperm whale’s jaw. ‘Aye, he was dismasted off Japan,’ said the old Gay-Head Indian once; ‘but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of ‘em.’
亚哈整个冷酷的一面以及它身上的青紫色烙印对我的影响是如此强烈，以至于在最初的几分钟里，我几乎没有注意到这种专横的冷酷在很大程度上是由于他部分站立的那条野蛮的白色腿。我之前就知道这条象牙腿是在海上用抹香鲸下巴的抛光骨制成的。 “是的，他在日本被折断了，”老同性恋头印第安人有一次说道。 “但就像他拆掉桅杆的船一样，他又运了另一根桅杆，但没有回家取。他有一种“他们”的颤抖。

I was struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon each side of the Pequod’s quarter deck, and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds, there was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into the plank. His bone leg steadied in that hole; one arm elevated, and holding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking straight out beyond the ship’s ever-pitching prow. There was an infinity of firmest fortitude, a determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless, forward dedication of that glance. Not a word he spoke; nor did his officers say aught to him; though by all their minutest gestures and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not painful, consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye. And not only that, but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe.
他保持的独特姿势让我震惊。在裴阔德号四分之一甲板的每一侧，非常靠近后护罩的地方，有一个螺旋钻孔，钻入木板约半英寸左右。他的骨腿在那个洞里站稳了；一只手臂举起，并用裹尸布握住；亚哈船长笔直地站着，直视着不断倾斜的船头。那目光坚定、无畏、向前奉献，充满了无限的坚定毅力、坚定的、不可屈服的任性。他一句话也没说；他的军官们也没有对他说什么。尽管他们的所有最细微的动作和表情都清楚地表明了他们在一个困扰的主人的目光下的不安，甚至是痛苦的意识。不仅如此，情绪低落的亚哈也站在他们面前，脸上挂着十字架。在所有无名的王者的傲慢尊严中，有一些巨大的灾难。

Ere long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin. But after that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either standing in his pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or heavily walking the deck. As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to grow a little genial, he became still less and less a recluse; as if, when the ship had sailed from home, nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded. And, by and by, it came to pass, that he was almost continually in the air; but, as yet, for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at last sunny deck, he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast. But the Pequod was only making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to, so that there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite Ahab, now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that layer upon layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon.
自从他第一次在空中访问后不久，他就撤回了自己的机舱。但从那天早上开始，船员们每天都能看到他。要么站在他的枢轴洞里，要么坐在他有的象牙凳上；或在甲板上沉重地行走。随着天空不再那么阴沉；事实上，他开始变得有点和蔼可亲，而且越来越不像隐士了。仿佛当船从家乡启航时，除了大​​海的死寂的冬日荒凉之外，什么也没有让他如此与世隔绝。渐渐地，他几乎一直在空中。但是，到目前为止，尽管他在最后一个阳光明媚的甲板上说过或明显做过的一切，但他在那里似乎就像另一根桅杆一样不必要。但裴廓德号现在才刚刚航行；不定期巡航；几乎所有需要监督的捕鲸准备工作，他们的配偶都完全有能力完成，因此，现在，他自己几乎没有什么可以雇用或刺激亚哈的。就这样驱散了，在那一段时间里，层层云彩堆积在他的额头上，就像所有的云朵都会选择最崇高的山峰来堆积一样。

Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling persuasiveness of the pleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually to charm him from his mood. For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls, April and May, trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest, ruggedest, most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the end, a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air. More than once did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any other man, would have soon flowered out in a smile.
然而，不久之后，我们所迎来的愉快的假期天气所带来的温暖、颤抖的说服力似乎逐渐让他失去了心情。因为，就像红脸颊的舞女们，四月和五月，回到寒冷、厌世的森林里一样；即使是最光秃秃的、最粗犷的、最雷鸣般的老橡树，也至少会发出一些绿芽，来欢迎这些高兴的访客。因此，亚哈最终对那种少女气息的顽皮诱惑做出了一些反应。他不止一次露出微弱的绽放的神情，换作其他男人，这种神情很快就会绽放出微笑。

Chapter 29
第29章

Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.
亚哈上。对他来说，斯塔布。

Some days elapsed, and ice and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now went rolling through the bright Quito spring, which, at sea, almost perpetually reigns on the threshold of the eternal August of the Tropic. The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing, redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heaped up—flaked up, with rose-water snow. The starred and stately nights seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns! For sleeping man, ‘twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such seducing nights. But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward world. Inward they turned upon the soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then, memory shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights. And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab’s texture.
几天过去了，冰块和冰山全都在船尾，裴阔德号现在正驶过明亮的基多泉水，在海上，泉水几乎永远统治着热带永恒的八月。温暖凉爽、清澈、清脆、芬芳、溢满、多余的日子，就像波斯果子露的水晶高脚杯，堆积起来——剥落成片，上面有玫瑰水雪。繁星点点、庄严的夜晚，仿佛是穿着镶有宝石的天鹅绒的傲慢贵妇，在家里孤独地、骄傲地护理着她们缺席的征服伯爵的记忆，还有戴着金色头盔的太阳！对于熟睡的人来说，在如此迷人的白天和如此诱人的夜晚之间很难做出选择。但这种不祥天气的所有魔力不仅仅为外部世界带来了新的咒语和力量。他们向内转向灵魂，尤其是在傍晚仍然温和的时刻来临的时候。然后，记忆将她的水晶射成清澈的冰，最无声的暮光形式。所有这些微妙的力量，越来越多地作用于亚哈的肌理。

Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less man has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders, the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the night-cloaked deck. It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he seemed so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visits were more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks. ‘It feels like going down into one’s tomb,’—he would mutter to himself—‘for an old captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle, to go to my grave-dug berth.’
晚年总是清醒的；仿佛，人与生命的联系越长，与死亡之类的事物的关系就越少。在海上指挥官中，年老的灰胡子经常离开他们的泊位去参观夜斗篷的甲板。亚哈也是如此。只是现在，最近，他似乎太喜欢在露天生活了，说实话，他更多的是去小屋，而不是从小屋到木板。 “对于像我这样的老船长来说，从这个狭窄的天窗走下来，去我挖坟的泊位，感觉就像走进坟墓一样，”他自言自语道。

So, almost every twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were set, and the band on deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below; and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors flung it not rudely down, as by day, but with some cautiousness dropt it to its place for fear of disturbing their slumbering shipmates; when this sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail, habitually, the silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and ere long the old man would emerge, gripping at the iron banister, to help his crippled way. Some considering touch of humanity was in him; for at times like these, he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that their dreams would have been on the crunching teeth of sharks. But once, the mood was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy, lumber-like pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast, Stubb, the old second mate, came up from below, with a certain unassured, deprecating humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks, then, no one could say nay; but there might be some way of muffling the noise; hinting something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow, and the insertion into it, of the ivory heel. Ah! Stubb, thou didst not know Ahab then.
因此，几乎每隔二十四小时，当夜更时，甲板上的乐队就会哨声在下面的乐队的沉睡中。如果要在艏楼上拉一根绳子，水手们不会像白天那样粗鲁地把它扔下来，而是小心翼翼地把它放回原来的位置，生怕惊扰了正在熟睡的船员。当这种稳定的安静开始盛行时，沉默的舵手习惯性地会看着舱窗。不久，老人就会出现，抓住铁栏杆，帮助他跛行。他身上有一些深思熟虑的人性色彩；因为在这种时候，他通常不会在尾甲板上巡逻。因为对于他疲倦的伙伴们来说，在距离他的象牙鞋跟六英寸的范围内寻求休息，那骨瘦如柴的脚步声会回响着咔哒声和喧闹声，他们的梦想就会落在鲨鱼嘎吱作响的牙齿上。但有一次，他的心情太深了，无法与平常人相处。当他用沉重的、笨重的步伐测量船从尾栏到主桅时，老二副斯塔布从下面走上来，带着某种不确定的、不赞成的幽默，暗示亚哈船长是否愿意在木板上走一走，那么，没有人可以说不；但可能有某种方法可以消除噪音；模糊而犹豫地暗示着一个由丝束制成的球体，以及象牙鞋跟插入其中的东西。啊!斯塔布，那时你还不认识亚哈。

‘Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb,’ said Ahab, ‘that thou wouldst wad me that fashion? But go thy ways; I had forgot. Below to thy nightly grave; where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one at last.—Down, dog, and kennel!’
“我是一颗炮弹吗，斯塔布，”亚哈说，“你会用这种方式打我吗？但走你的路吧；我忘了。下面到你夜间的坟墓；你们这些人睡在裹尸布之间，最后用你们来填饱肚子。——下来，狗，狗窝！

Starting at the unforseen concluding exclamation of the so suddenly scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a moment; then said excitedly, ‘I am not used to be spoken to that way, sir; I do but less than half like it, sir.’
听到这位突然轻蔑的老人出人意料的结束语，斯塔布一时间说不出话来。然后兴奋地说：“先生，我不习惯这样说话。”我确实喜欢，但只有不到一半喜欢，先生。”

‘Avast! gritted Ahab between his set teeth, and violently moving away, as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
‘阿瓦斯特！亚哈咬紧牙关，猛烈地走开，仿佛要躲避某种激情的诱惑。

‘No, sir; not yet,’ said Stubb, emboldened, ‘I will not tamely be called a dog, sir.’
'不，先生;还不行，”斯塔布壮着胆子说道，“我不会被温顺地称为狗，先生。”

‘Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and begone, or I’ll clear the world of thee!’
“那就被叫十次驴、骡子、驴子，走开，否则我就把你从世界上清除掉！”

As he said this, Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated.
说着，亚哈向他逼近，脸上充满了霸道的恐惧，斯塔布不由自主地后退了一步。

‘I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,’ muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle. ‘It’s very queer. Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don’t well know whether to go back and strike him, or—what’s that?—down here on my knees and pray for him? Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the first time I ever DID pray. It’s queer; very queer; and he’s queer too; aye, take him fore and aft, he’s about the queerest old man Stubb ever sailed with. How he flashed at me!—his eyes like powder-pans! is he mad? Anyway there’s something on his mind, as sure as there must be something on a deck when it cracks. He aint in his bed now, either, more than three hours out of the twenty-four; and he don’t sleep then. Didn’t that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds the old man’s hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and the pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on it? A hot old man! I guess he’s got what some folks ashore call a conscience; it’s a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say—worse nor a toothache. Well, well; I don’t know what it is, but the Lord keep me from catching it. He’s full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what’s that for, I should like to know? Who’s made appointments with him in the hold? Ain’t that queer, now? But there’s no telling, it’s the old game—Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it’s worth a fellow’s while to be born into the world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I think of it, that’s about the first thing babies do, and that’s a sort of queer, too. Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of ‘em. But that’s against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and sleep when you can, is my twelfth—So here goes again. But how’s that? didn’t he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on top of THAT! He might as well have kicked me, and done with it. Maybe he DID kick me, and I didn’t observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow. It flashed like a bleached bone. What the devil’s the matter with me? I don’t stand right on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sort of turned me wrong side out. By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though—How? how? how?—but the only way’s to stash it; so here goes to hammock again; and in the morning, I’ll see how this plaguey juggling thinks over by daylight.’
“我以前从来没有受到过这样的服务，而没有受到严厉的打击，”斯塔布低声说道，同时他发现自己正在走下舱窗。 ‘这很奇怪。停下来，斯塔布；不知怎的，现在，我不知道是该回去打他，还是——那是什么？——跪下来为他祈祷？是的，这就是我的想法；但这是我第一次祈祷。这很奇怪；非常奇怪；他也很奇怪；是的，把他带到船头和船尾，他是斯塔布曾经一起航行过的最奇怪的老人。他对我的目光多么闪烁啊！——他的眼睛就像火药罐一样！他疯了吗？不管怎样，他心里有事，就像甲板破裂时肯定有什么东西一样。现在，二十四个小时里，他已经有三个多小时没有躺在床上了。然后他不睡觉。那个管家的面团小子不是告诉我，每天早上他总是发现老人的吊床衣服都皱巴巴的，翻滚着，床单垂到脚下，被盖几乎打成结，枕头也打结了。有点热得可怕，好像上面放了一块烤砖？一个热辣的老男人！我猜他有岸上一些人所说的良心；他们说，这是一种抽搐式的划船——更糟糕的是，也不是牙痛。好吧;我不知道那是什么，但主阻止我抓住它。他充满了谜语；我想知道他每晚都进入后舱做什么，正如面团男孩告诉我的那样，他怀疑；这是做什么用的，我很想知道？谁在货舱里与他预约了？现在这不是很奇怪吗？但谁也说不准，这就是老游戏了——小睡一会儿。该死的，一个人出生到这个世界上，即使只是为了睡着，也是值得的。现在我想起来了，这就是婴儿做的第一件事，而且这也有点奇怪。 该死的，但想想看，所有的事情都很奇怪。但这违背了我的原则。不要思考，是我的第十一条诫命；尽可能睡觉，这是我的第十二条——所以又来了。但怎么样？他不是叫我狗吗？燃烧！他十次骂我是驴子，还在那上面堆了很多蠢货！他还不如踢我一脚，然后就结束了。也许他确实踢了我，但我没有注意到，不知何故，我被他的眉毛吓了一跳。它像一根漂白的骨头一样闪烁。我到底怎么了？我的腿不能直立。与那个老人发生冲突让我有点反感。天啊，我一定是在做梦——怎么会这样？如何？怎么办？——但唯一的办法就是把它藏起来；所以又到了吊床上；到了早上，我会看看这个令人讨厌的杂耍在白天是如何思考的。’

Chapter 30
第30章

The Pipe.
管道。

When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while leaning over the bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of late, calling a sailor of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and also his pipe. Lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the stool on the weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.
斯塔布离开后，亚哈靠在舷墙上站了一会儿。然后，就像他近来的惯例一样，他叫了一名值班的水手，派他到下面去取他的象牙凳子，还有他的烟斗。他点燃了罗经柜灯上的烟斗，把凳子放在甲板迎风的一侧，然后坐下来抽烟。

In old Norse times, the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were fabricated, saith tradition, of the tusks of the narwhale. How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that tripod of bones, without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized? For a Khan of the plank, and a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab.
据说，在古挪威时代，热爱海洋的丹麦国王的王座是用独角鲸的象牙制成的。当亚哈坐在骨鼎上时，人们怎能不想起它所象征的王权呢？亚哈是一位水上可汗、一位海王、一位伟大的利维坦王。

Some moments passed, during which the thick vapour came from his mouth in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face. ‘How now,’ he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, ‘this smoking no longer soothes. Oh, my pipe! hard must it go with me if thy charm be gone! Here have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring—aye, and ignorantly smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with such nervous whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the strongest and fullest of trouble. What business have I with this pipe? This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapours among mild white hairs, not among torn iron-grey locks like mine. I’ll smoke no more—’
过了一会儿，浓浓的水蒸气从他嘴里快速而持续地喷出，又吹回到他的脸上。 “现在怎么了，”他最后自言自语道，抽出了烟管，“抽烟不再能舒缓情绪了。”哦，我的烟斗！如果你的魅力消失了，我就很难受了！我在这里无意识地劳作，不快乐——是的，而且一直无知地向着上风抽烟；迎风而行，带着如此紧张的气息，仿佛，就像垂死的鲸鱼一样，我最后的喷气式飞机是最强大和最麻烦的。我和这根管子有什么关系？这个东西是为了宁静，在温和的白色头发中散发温和的白色蒸汽，而不是在像我这样撕裂的铁灰色头发中。我不会再抽烟了——”

He tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea. The fire hissed in the waves; the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe made. With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
他把还亮着的管子扔进海里。火焰在波浪中嘶嘶作响；就在同一时刻，船被下沉的管道产生的气泡击中。亚哈戴着低垂的帽子，摇摇晃晃地在木板上踱着步。

Chapter 31
第31章

Queen Mab.
麦布女王。

Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.
第二天早上，斯塔布和弗拉斯克搭话。

‘Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know the old man’s ivory leg, well I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off! And then, presto! Ahab seemed a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking at it. But what was still more curious, Flask—you know how curious all dreams are—through all this rage that I was in, I somehow seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of an insult, that kick from Ahab. ‘Why,’ thinks I, ‘what’s the row? It’s not a real leg, only a false leg.’ And there’s a mighty difference between a living thump and a dead thump. That’s what makes a blow from the hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane. The living member—that makes the living insult, my little man. And thinks I to myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against that cursed pyramid—so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, ‘what’s his leg now, but a cane—a whalebone cane. Yes,’ thinks I, ‘it was only a playful cudgelling—in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me—not a base kick. Besides,’ thinks I, ‘look at it once; why, the end of it—the foot part—what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me, THERE’S a devilish broad insult. But this insult is whittled down to a point only.’ But now comes the greatest joke of the dream, Flask. While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the shoulders, and slews me round. ‘What are you ‘bout?’ says he. Slid! man, but I was frightened. Such a phiz! But, somehow, next moment I was over the fright. ‘What am I about?’ says I at last. ‘And what business is that of yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback? Do YOU want a kick?’ By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a clout—what do you think, I saw?—why thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck full of marlinspikes, with the points out. Says I, on second thoughts, ‘I guess I won’t kick you, old fellow.’ ‘Wise Stubb,’ said he, ‘wise Stubb;’ and kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of his own gums like a chimney hag. Seeing he wasn’t going to stop saying over his ‘wise Stubb, wise Stubb,’ I thought I might as well fall to kicking the pyramid again. But I had only just lifted my foot for it, when he roared out, ‘Stop that kicking!’ ‘Halloa,’ says I, ‘what’s the matter now, old fellow?’ ‘Look ye here,’ says he; ‘let’s argue the insult. Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn’t he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’ says I—‘right HERE it was.’ ‘Very good,’ says he—‘he used his ivory leg, didn’t he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’ says I. ‘Well then,’ says he, ‘wise Stubb, what have you to complain of? Didn’t he kick with right good will? it wasn’t a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it? No, you were kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb. It’s an honour; I consider it an honour. Listen, wise Stubb. In old England the greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of; but, be YOUR boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of. Remember what I say; BE kicked by him; account his kicks honours; and on no account kick back; for you can’t help yourself, wise Stubb. Don’t you see that pyramid?’ With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, to swim off into the air. I snored; rolled over; and there I was in my hammock! Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?’
“真是奇怪的梦，金波斯特，我从来没有做过。”你知道那个老人的象牙腿，我梦见他用它踢我；当我试图用我的灵魂踢回我的小男人时，我直接踢掉了我的腿！然后，很快！亚哈就像一座金字塔，而我，就像一个愚蠢的傻瓜，不断地踢它。但更奇怪的是，弗拉斯克——你知道所有的梦都是多么好奇——在我如此愤怒的过程中，我似乎在心里想，毕竟，这并不是什么侮辱，那一脚踢亚哈。 “为什么，”我想，“有什么可争论的？”这不是一条真正的腿，只是一条假腿。”活的重击和死的重击之间有很大的区别。这就是为什么手上的一击比手杖上的一击更残酷五十倍。活生生的成员——这让活生生的侮辱，我的小男人。我心里一直在想，当我用愚蠢的脚趾撞向那座该死的金字塔时，这一切真是太矛盾了，我说，我一直在心里想，‘他的腿现在是什么，但是一根手杖——一根鲸骨手杖。是的，”我想，“这只是一次好玩的棍打——事实上，只是他给我的鲸鱼攻击——而不是基础踢。此外，”我想，“看一次；哎呀，它的末端——脚的部分——这是多么小的末端啊！然而，如果一个宽脚农夫踢我，那就是一种邪恶的广泛侮辱。但这种侮辱只会减少到一定程度。”但现在梦想中最大的笑话来了，弗拉斯克。当我猛击金字塔时，一个背上有驼峰、长着獾毛的老人鱼抓住了我的肩膀，把我打晕了。 “你在说什么？”他说。滑了！伙计，但我很害怕。真是太有趣了！但不知何故，下一刻我就克服了恐惧。 “我在做什么？”我最后说道。 “我想知道你有什么事吗，驼背先生？你想踢一脚吗？”上帝啊，弗拉斯克，我刚说完这句话，他就把船尾转过来对着我，弯下腰，拖起一大堆海藻来作为重击——你觉得怎么样，我看到了？——为什么雷声还活着，伙计，他的船尾粘满了马林鱼尖刺，尖端都在外面。我转念一想，说道：“我想我不会踢你，老伙计。”“聪明的斯塔布，”他说，“聪明的斯塔布；”他一直嘟囔着，就像在吃自己的牙龈一样。就像一个烟囱女巫。看到他不停地说“明智的斯塔布，明智的斯塔布”，我想我可能会再次踢金字塔。但我刚抬起脚，他就大声喊道：“别再踢了！”“喂，”我说，“现在怎么了，老伙计？”“看这里，”他说；“你看这里，”他说。 ‘让我们争论一下这种侮辱吧。亚哈船长踢了你们，不是吗？”“是的，他踢了，”我说——“就在这里。”“很好，”他说——“他用了他的象牙腿，不是吗？”是的，他做到了，”我说。“那么，”他说，“聪明的斯塔布，你有什么可抱怨的呢？他踢球不是出于善意吗？他踢的不是普通的松木腿，是吗？不，你是被一个伟人踢的，他有一条漂亮的象牙腿，斯塔布。这是一种荣幸；我认为这是一种荣幸。听着，聪明的斯塔布。在古老的英格兰，最伟大的领主认为被女王扇耳光并被封为嘉德骑士是极大的荣耀。但是，斯塔布，你可以夸夸其谈，你被老亚哈踢了一脚，变成了一个智者。记住我说的话；被他踢了；记下他的踢球荣誉；决不反击；因为你情不自禁，聪明的斯塔布。你没看到那个金字塔吗？”说着，他突然似乎以某种奇怪的方式游到了空中。 我打呼噜；翻了个身;我就在吊床上！现在，你觉得那个梦想怎么样，弗拉斯克？’

‘I don’t know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.’’
'我不知道;不过，这对我来说似乎有点愚蠢。”

‘May be; may be. But it’s made a wise man of me, Flask. D’ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the stern? Well, the best thing you can do, Flask, is to let the old man alone; never speak to him, whatever he says. Halloa! What’s that he shouts? Hark!’
'或许;或许。但它让我成为了一个聪明人，弗拉斯克。你看到亚哈站在那里，侧身看着船尾吗？好吧，弗拉斯克，你能做的最好的事情就是别打扰那个老人。无论他说什么，永远不要跟他说话。喊叫！他喊什么？听着！

‘Mast-head, there! Look sharp, all of ye! There are whales hereabouts!
“桅杆头，那里！你们大家都看清楚！这附近有鲸鱼！

If ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!
如果你看到一个白色的，就为他劈开你的肺！

‘What do you think of that now, Flask? ain’t there a small drop of something queer about that, eh? A white whale—did ye mark that, man? Look ye—there’s something special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask. Ahab has that that’s bloody on his mind. But, mum; he comes this way.’
“你现在觉得怎么样，弗拉斯克？是不是有一点点奇怪的地方，嗯？一条白鲸——你注意到了吗，伙计？瞧，风中有一些特别的东西。做好准备，Flask。亚哈心里一直盘算着这件事。但是，妈妈；他朝这边来了。

Chapter 32
第32章

Cetology.
鲸类学。

Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost in its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere the Pequod’s weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of the leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to follow.
我们已经勇敢地向深渊出发了；但很快我们就会迷失在这片无边无际、无港无际的地方。在这一切发生之前；彼阔德号杂草丛生的船体与利维坦长满藤壶的船体并排滚动之前；首先，最好关注一个几乎不可或缺的问题，以全面欣赏地理解随后出现的更特殊的利维坦启示和各种暗示。

It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera, that I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. The classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed. Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.
这是鲸鱼广泛属的一些系统化展览，我现在很想把它摆在你们面前。但这并不是一件容易的事。这里仅讨论混沌成分的分类。听听最好和最新的权威机构的规定。

‘No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled Cetology,’ says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.
公元 1820 年，斯科斯比上尉说道，“动物学的任何一个分支都没有像鲸类学那样涉及如此多的内容。”

‘It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and families …. Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal’ (sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839.
“如果我有能力的话，我无意探究将鲸目动物分为群体和科的真正方法……”公元 1839 年，外科医生比尔说，这种动物（抹香鲸）的历史学家们存在着彻底的混乱。

‘Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters.’ ‘Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea.’ ‘A field strewn with thorns.’ ‘All these incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists.’
“我们不适合在深不可测的水域中进行研究。”“我们对鲸目动物的了解被一层难以穿透的面纱遮住了。”“一片布满荆棘的田野。”“所有这些不完整的迹象却在折磨我们博物学家。”

Thus speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, those lights of zoology and anatomy. Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little, yet of books there are a plenty; and so in some small degree, with cetology, or the science of whales. Many are the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen, who have at large or in little, written of the whale. Run over a few:—The Authors of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne; Gesner; Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald; Brisson; Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick Cuvier; John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev. T. Cheever. But to what ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited extracts will show.
因此，谈到鲸鱼、伟大的居维叶、约翰·亨特和莱森，这些动物学和解剖学的光芒。然而，真知识虽少，书却多；在某种程度上，鲸类学或鲸鱼科学也是如此。许多人，无论大小，新旧，陆地居民还是海员，或多或少都曾写过关于鲸鱼的文章。浏览一些：《圣经》的作者；亚里士多德；普林尼；阿尔德罗万迪；托马斯·布朗爵士；格斯纳；射线;林奈；朗德莱提乌斯；威洛比；绿色的;阿泰迪；西博尔德；布里森；貂;花足虫；博内泰尔；德马雷斯特；居维叶男爵；弗雷德里克·居维叶；约翰·亨特；欧文；斯科斯比；比尔；贝内特； J·罗斯·布朗； 《米里亚姆·科芬》的作者；奥姆斯特德；和牧师 T. Cheever。但以上引用的摘录将显示所有这些内容的最终概括目的。

Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following Owen ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional harpooneer and whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On the separate subject of the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing authority. But Scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of the great sperm whale, compared with which the Greenland whale is almost unworthy mentioning. And here be it said, that the Greenland whale is an usurper upon the throne of the seas. He is not even by any means the largest of the whales. Yet, owing to the long priority of his claims, and the profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back, invested the then fabulous or utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which ignorance to this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific retreats and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete. Reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past days, will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to them the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come for a new proclamation. This is Charing Cross; hear ye! good people all,—the Greenland whale is deposed,—the great sperm whale now reigneth!
在这份鲸鱼作者名单中，只有欧文之后的人见过活鲸鱼。但其中一位是真正的专业鱼叉手和捕鲸人。我是说斯科斯比船长。在格陵兰岛或露脊鲸这个单独的主题上，他是现有的最佳权威。但斯科斯比对抹香鲸一无所知，也只字不提，与之相比，格陵兰鲸几乎不值一提。可以说，格陵兰鲸是海洋王座的篡夺者。他甚至不是最大的鲸鱼。然而，由于他的主张长期优先，以及直到大约七十年前，人们对当时神话般的或完全未知的抹香鲸的无知，直到今天，除了少数科学撤退外，这种无知仍然统治着所有的科学撤退。和鲸鱼港口；这种篡夺已经彻底完成了。参考过去伟大诗人的几乎所有关于利维坦的典故，你就会确信格陵兰鲸是无可匹敌的，对他们来说是海洋之王。但发布新公告的时刻终于到来了。这是查令十字街；听你们说！各位好心人，——格陵兰鲸被废黜了，——伟大的抹香鲸现在统治了！

There are only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living sperm whale before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree succeed in the attempt. Those books are Beale’s and Bennett’s; both in their time surgeons to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and reliable men. The original matter touching the sperm whale to be found in their volumes is necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of excellent quality, though mostly confined to scientific description. As yet, however, the sperm whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete in any literature. Far above all other hunted whales, his is an unwritten life.
在存在方面，只有两本书假装把活的抹香鲸摆在你面前，同时又在最小程度上成功了这一尝试。这些书是比尔和贝内特的；他们都是当时英国南海捕鲸船上的外科医生，都是精确可靠的人。在抹香鲸的体积中发现的接触抹香鲸的原始物质必然很小；但就目前而言，它的质量非常出色，尽管主要局限于科学描述。然而，到目前为止，无论是科学的还是诗意的抹香鲸，在任何文献中的生活都不完整。与其他所有被猎杀的鲸鱼相比，他的生活是不成文的。

Now the various species of whales need some sort of popular comprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for the present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by subsequent laborers. As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I hereupon offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing complete; because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very reason infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of the various species, or—in this place at least—to much of any description. My object here is simply to project the draught of a systematization of cetology. I am the architect, not the builder.
现在，不同种类的鲸鱼需要某种流行的综合分类，即使目前只是一个简单的概述，以后也将由后来的劳动者填补其所有部门。由于没有更好的人来处理这个问题，因此我提出我自己的可怜的努力。我保证一切都不完整；因为任何被认为是完整的人类事物都必然是有缺陷的。我不会假装对各个物种进行详细的解剖学描述，或者至少在这个地方进行任何描述。我的目的只是提出一份鲸类学系统化草案。我是建筑师，而不是建造者。

But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the Post-Office is equal to it. To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them; to have one’s hands among the unspeakable foundations, ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing. What am I that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan! The awful tauntings in Job might well appal me. ‘Will he the (leviathan) make a covenant with thee? Behold the hope of him is vain! But I have swam through libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try. There are some preliminaries to settle.
但这是一项艰巨的任务；邮局中没有任何普通的信件分拣员可以与它相媲美。跟着他们摸索到海底；把手放在世界上难以形容的地基、肋骨和骨盆上；这是一件可怕的事情。我算什么，竟敢去钩这个利维坦的鼻子！ 《约伯记》中可怕的嘲讽可能会让我感到震惊。 ‘他（利维坦）会与你立约吗？可见他的希望落空了！但我游过图书馆，航行过海洋；我曾用这些可见的手与鲸鱼打过交道；我是认真的；我会尝试。有一些初步工作需要解决。

First: The uncertain, unsettled condition of this science of Cetology is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in some quarters it still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish. In his System of Nature, A.D. 1776, Linnaeus declares, ‘I hereby separate the whales from the fish.’ But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year 1850, sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus’s express edict, were still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the Leviathan.
第一：鲸类学这门科学的不确定性和不稳定状态就在其前庭，这一事实证明了这一点：在某些方面，鲸是否是鱼仍然是一个有争议的问题。林奈在他的《自然体系》（公元 1776 年）中宣称，“我特此将鲸鱼与鱼类分开。”但据我所知，我知道直到 1850 年，鲨鱼和鲥鱼、青鱼和鲱鱼都反对林奈的明确法令，仍然被发现与利维坦分割同一海域的所有权。

The grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished the whales from the waters, he states as follows: ‘On account of their warm bilocular heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem intrantem feminam mammis lactantem,’ and finally, ‘ex lege naturae jure meritoque.’ I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and they united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether insufficient. Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.
林奈将鲸鱼驱逐出水域的理由如下：“由于它们温暖的双眼心脏、它们的肺、它们可移动的眼睑、它们空心的耳朵、penem intrantem feminam mammislactantem”，最后， “ex law naturae jure Mertoque。”我将所有这些提交给我的朋友西蒙·梅西和来自楠塔基特岛的查理·科芬，他们都是我在一次航行中的好友，他们一致认为所提出的理由完全不充分。查理亵渎地暗示他们是骗人的。

Be it known that, waiving all argument, I take the good old fashioned ground that the whale is a fish, and call upon holy Jonah to back me. This fundamental thing settled, the next point is, in what internal respect does the whale differ from other fish. Above, Linnaeus has given you those items. But in brief, they are these: lungs and warm blood; whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
要知道，放弃所有争论，我采用鲸鱼是鱼的传统观点，并呼吁神圣的乔纳支持我。这个基本问题解决了，接下来的一点是，鲸鱼与其他鱼类在哪些内在方面有所不同。上面，林奈已经给了你这些东西。但简而言之，它们是：肺和温血；然而，所有其他鱼类都是无肺且冷血的。

Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as conspicuously to label him for all time to come? To be short, then, a whale is A SPOUTING FISH WITH A HORIZONTAL TAIL. There you have him. However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded meditation. A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he is amphibious. But the last term of the definition is still more cogent, as coupled with the first. Almost any one must have noticed that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a vertical, or up-and-down tail. Whereas, among spouting fish the tail, though it may be similarly shaped, invariably assumes a horizontal position.
接下来：我们如何通过鲸鱼明显的外在来定义它，以便在未来的任何时候都显着地给它贴上标签？简而言之，鲸鱼是一种带有水平尾巴的喷水鱼。在那里你有他。无论多么精简，这个定义都是扩展冥想的结果。海象的喷水动作很像鲸鱼，但海象不是鱼，因为它是两栖动物。但定义的最后一个术语与第一个术语相结合仍然更有说服力。几乎任何人都一定注意到，陆地上人们熟悉的所有鱼类都不是平坦的，而是垂直的或上下起伏的尾巴。而喷水鱼的尾巴虽然形状相似，但总是呈水平位置。

By the above definition of what a whale is, I do by no means exclude from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea creature hitherto identified with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers; nor, on the other hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively regarded as alien.* Hence, all the smaller, spouting, and horizontal tailed fish must be included in this ground-plan of Cetology. Now, then, come the grand divisions of the entire whale host.
根据上述对鲸鱼的定义，我决不会将迄今最有见识的楠塔基特人认为与鲸鱼相同的任何海洋生物排除在利维坦兄弟之外。另一方面，也不能将迄今为止被权威视为外来的任何鱼类与它联系起来。*因此，所有较小的、喷水的和水平尾鱼都必须包括在鲸类学的平面图中。那么现在，整个鲸鱼群的大部队来了。

*I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish are a noisy, contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials as whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the Kingdom of Cetology.
*我知道，直到现在，许多博物学家都将拉马丁鱼和儒艮（楠塔基特棺材的猪鱼和母猪鱼）列为鲸鱼。但由于这些猪鱼是一群吵闹、卑鄙的鱼，大多潜伏在河口，以湿干草为食，而且特别是它们不会喷水，所以我否认它们是鲸鱼；并向他们出示了退出鲸类王国的护照。

First: According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary BOOKS (subdivisible into CHAPTERS), and these shall comprehend them all, both small and large.
第一：根据大小，我将鲸鱼分为三本主要书籍（可细分为章节），这些书籍应涵盖所有鲸鱼，无论大小。

I. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE.
I. 对开鲸鱼；二.八角鲸；三．杜德西莫鲸鱼。

As the type of the FOLIO I present the SPERM WHALE; of the OCTAVO, the GRAMPUS; of the DUODECIMO, the PORPOISE.
作为 FOLIO 的类型，我提出了抹香鲸； OCTAVO、GRAMPUS；海豚 DOUDECIMO。

FOLIOS. Among these I here include the following chapters:—I. The SPERM WHALE; II. the RIGHT WHALE; III. the FIN-BACK WHALE; IV. the HUMP-BACKED WHALE; V. the RAZOR-BACK WHALE; VI. the SULPHUR-BOTTOM WHALE.
对开页。其中包括以下章节：抹香鲸；二.右鲸；三．背鳍鲸；四．座头鲸； V. 刀背鲸；六．硫磺底鲸。

BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER I. (SPERM WHALE).—This whale, among the English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter whale, and the Anvil Headed whale, is the present Cachalot of the French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the Long Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe; the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the most majestic in aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce; he being the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is obtained. All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon. It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do. Philologically considered, it is absurd. Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days spermaceti, it would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale. It was the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce, not being used for light, but only as an ointment and medicament. It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb. When, as I opine, in the course of time, the true nature of spermaceti became known, its original name was still retained by the dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity. And so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti was really derived.
第一卷（对开页），第一章（抹香鲸）。这种鲸鱼，在古代的英国人中模糊地称为特朗普鲸、Physeter 鲸和铁砧头鲸，是现在法国人的 Cachalot，以及德国人的 Pottsfich 和长词的 Macrocephalus。毫无疑问，他是地球上最大的居民。所有鲸鱼中最可怕的；最雄伟的方面；最后，迄今为止最有价值的商业；他是唯一能获得宝贵物质鲸脑油的生物。他的所有特点都将在许多其他地方得到放大。我现在要做的主要是他的名字。从语言学角度来看，这是荒谬的。几个世纪前，当时抹香鲸的独特个性几乎完全不为人所知，而他的油只是偶然从搁浅的鱼身上获得的。在当时，人们普遍认为鲸脑油源自一种与当时在英国被称为格陵兰鲸或露脊鲸的生物相同的生物。还有一种想法是，同样的鲸脑油是格陵兰鲸的一种加速幽默，这个词的第一个音节字面上表达了这一点。在那个时代，鲸蜡也极其稀缺，不能用于照明，而仅用作药膏和药物。它只能从药剂师那里买到，就像现在购买一盎司大黄一样。正如我所认为的，随着时间的推移，当鲸脑油的真正本质为人所知时，它的原始名称仍然被经销商保留着。毫无疑问，通过其稀缺性这一具有奇特意义的概念来提高其价值。因此，这个名称最终一定是授予了鲸脑，鲸脑油的真正来源就是鲸鱼。

BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER II. (RIGHT WHALE).—In one respect this is the most venerable of the leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted by man. It yields the article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and the oil specially known as ‘whale oil,’ an inferior article in commerce. Among the fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated by all the following titles: The Whale; the Greenland Whale; the Black Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale. There is a deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus multitudinously baptised. What then is the whale, which I include in the second species of my Folios? It is the Great Mysticetus of the English naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English whalemen; the Baliene Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes. It is the whale which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch and English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor’ West Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them Right Whale Cruising Grounds.
第一本书（对开页），第二章。 （露脊鲸）——从某种意义上说，这是最受尊敬的利维坦，因为它是第一个经常被人类猎杀的。它产生通常被称为鲸骨或鲸须的物品；还有一种特别被称为“鲸油”的油，是一种劣质的商业物品。在渔民中，他被不分青红皂白地冠以以下头衔：鲸鱼；格陵兰鲸；黑鲸；大鲸鱼；真正的鲸鱼；露脊鲸。对于如此众多的受洗物种的身份，存在着很多模糊性。那么，我在对开页的第二个物种中包含的鲸鱼是什么？它是英国博物学家的伟大密斯提斯图斯（Great Mysticetus）；英国捕鲸者的格陵兰鲸；法国捕鲸人的巴厘岛普通勋章；瑞典人的生长地鲸鱼。两个多世纪以来，荷兰人和英国人一直在北冰洋猎杀这种鲸鱼。它是美国渔民长期以来在印度洋、巴西海岸、西北海岸以及世界其他地区（被他们指定为露脊鲸巡航地）捕捞的鲸鱼。

Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland whale of the English and the right whale of the Americans. But they precisely agree in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is by endless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that some departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate. The right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference to elucidating the sperm whale.
有些人假装看到英国人的格陵兰鲸和美国人的露脊鲸之间的区别。但它们的所有宏伟特征却完全一致。也没有提出任何一个明确的事实来作为根本区别的基础。正是基于最不确定的差异而进行了无休止的细分，自然历史的某些部门变得如此复杂得令人厌恶。露脊鲸将在其他地方详细讨论，以解释抹香鲸。

BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER III. (FIN-BACK).—Under this head I reckon a monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the Atlantic, in the New York packet-tracks. In the length he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter colour, approaching to olive. His great lips present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin, from which he derives his name, is often a conspicuous object. This fin is some three or four feet long, growing vertically from the hinder part of the back, of an angular shape, and with a very sharp pointed end. Even if not the slightest other part of the creature be visible, this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from the surface. When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with spherical ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon the wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines graved on it. On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back. The Fin-Back is not gregarious. He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters. Very shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet rising like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with such wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present pursuit from man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable Cain of his race, bearing for his mark that style upon his back. From having the baleen in his mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with the right whale, among a theoretic species denominated WHALEBONE WHALES, that is, whales with baleen. Of these so called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be several varieties, most of which, however, are little known. Broad-nosed whales and beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawed whales and rostrated whales, are the fishermen’s names for a few sorts.
第一本书（对开页），第三章。 （鳍背）。——在这个头下，我认为有一个怪物，它的名字有鳍背、高嘴和长约翰，几乎在每个海洋中都可以看到，通常是鲸鱼，其远处的喷流是在纽约邮包轨道上横渡大西洋的乘客经常描述这种情况。鳍背鲸的长度和鲸须与露脊鲸相似，但腰围较小，颜色较浅，接近橄榄色。他的大嘴唇呈现出电缆般的外观，由大皱纹相互缠绕、倾斜的褶皱形成。它的显着特征——鳍——它的名字也由此而来——常常是一个引人注目的物体。该鳍长约三四英尺，从背部后部垂直生长，呈角状，末端非常锋利。即使看不到该生物的任何其他部分，有时也会清楚地看到这个孤立的鳍从表面突出。当大海适度平静，略带球形波纹时，这个像指针一样的鳍立起来，在起皱的表面上投下阴影，很可能会认为它周围的水圈有点像表盘，其风格和风格上面刻有波浪形的小时线。在那个亚哈斯表盘上，影子经常会回来。背鳍鱼不群居。他似乎讨厌鲸鱼，就像有些人讨厌人类一样。 很害羞;总是孤独的；在最偏远、最阴沉的水域意外地浮出水面；他笔直而单一的高耸喷气机像一根高高的厌世长矛在贫瘠的平原上升起；具有游泳的惊人力量和速度，足以藐视目前人类的所有追捕；这个利维坦似乎是他的种族中被放逐的、不可征服的该隐，背上有他的标记。由于嘴里有鲸须，背鳍鲸有时也被归入露脊鲸中，理论上被称为鲸骨鲸，即长须须的鲸鱼。在这些所谓的鲸骨鲸中，似乎有几个品种，但其中大多数却鲜为人知。宽鼻鲸和喙鲸；梭头鲸；成群的鲸鱼；下颌鲸和座鲸是渔民对几种鲸的称呼。

In connection with this appellative of ‘Whalebone whales,’ it is of great importance to mention, that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitating allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to attempt a clear classification of the Leviathan, founded upon either his baleen, or hump, or fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very obviously seem better adapted to afford the basis for a regular system of Cetology than any other detached bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his kinds, presents. How then? The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are things whose peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of whales, without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in other and more essential particulars. Thus, the sperm whale and the humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases. Then, this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen; but there again the similitude ceases. And it is just the same with the other parts above mentioned. In various sorts of whales, they form such irregular combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached, such an irregular isolation; as utterly to defy all general methodization formed upon such a basis. On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.
关于“鲸骨鲸”的这个称谓，非常重要的是要提到，尽管这样的命名法可能很方便地暗示某种鲸鱼，但试图对利维坦进行明确的分类是徒劳的，建立在他的鲸须、驼峰、鳍或牙齿之上；尽管那些明显的标记部分或特征似乎比鲸类所呈现的任何其他独立的身​​体特征更适合为鲸类学的常规系统提供基础。那么如何？鲸须、驼峰、背鳍和牙齿；这些东西的特性不加区别地分布在各种鲸鱼中，而不考虑它们在其他更重要的细节中的结构本质。因此，抹香鲸和座头鲸，各有一个驼峰；但相似之处就到此为止了。然后，同样是座头鲸和格陵兰鲸，它们都有鲸须；但相似之处又到此为止了。与上面提到的其他部分是一样的。在各种鲸鱼中，它们形成了这种不规则的组合；或者，在其中任何一个分离的情况下，这种不规则的隔离；完全违背了在此基础上形成的所有一般方法化。每一位鲸鱼博物学家都在这块岩石上分裂了。

But it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the whale, in his anatomy—there, at least, we shall be able to hit the right classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale’s anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yet we have seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify the Greenland whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the various leviathans, why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those external ones already enumerated. What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way. And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed.
但也许可以设想，在鲸鱼的内部，在他的解剖结构中，至少我们能够找到正确的分类。不；例如，在格陵兰鲸的解剖结构中，有什么比它的鲸须更引人注目的呢？然而我们已经看到，不可能根据鲸须正确地对格陵兰鲸进行分类。如果你深入到各种利维坦的内部，为什么你不会发现系统化者可以利用的区别，就像已经列举的那些外部区别一样。那么还剩下什么呢？只不过是抓住鲸鱼的身体，在它们的整个自由卷中，并大胆地以这种方式对它们进行分类。这就是这里采用的书目系统；这是唯一可能成功的方法，因为只有它是可行的。继续。

BOOK I. (FOLIO) CHAPTER IV. (HUMP-BACK).—This whale is often seen on the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there, and towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call him the Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, the popular name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not very valuable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of them.
第一本书（对开页）第四章。 （驼背）——这种鲸鱼经常出现在美国北部海岸。他经常在那里被捕并被拖入港口。他像个小贩一样背着大包袱。或者你可以称他为“大象和城堡鲸”。无论如何，它的流行名称并不足以区分它，因为抹香鲸也有一个驼峰，尽管驼峰较小。他的油不是很值钱。他有鲸须。他是所有鲸鱼中最顽皮、最轻松的，通常比其他鲸鱼制造出更多快乐的泡沫和白水。

BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER V. (RAZOR-BACK).—Of this whale little is known but his name. I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn. Of a retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers. Though no coward, he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long sharp ridge. Let him go. I know little more of him, nor does anybody else.
第一卷（对开页），第五章（剃刀背）。——除了他的名字之外，人们对这条鲸鱼知之甚少。我在合恩角远处见过他。由于性格隐居，他躲避了猎人和哲学家。尽管他不是胆小鬼，但除了他的背部之外，他从未露出过自己的任何部分，背部呈一条长长的尖锐山脊。放了他。我对他了解不多，其他人也一样。

BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER VI. (SULPHUR-BOTTOM).—Another retiring gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen; at least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas, and then always at too great a distance to study his countenance. He is never chased; he would run away with rope-walks of line. Prodigies are told of him. Adieu, Sulphur Bottom! I can say nothing more that is true of ye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer.
第一卷（对开页），第六章。 （硫磺底）——另一位退休的绅士，有着硫磺般的肚子，无疑是在他的一些更深层次的潜水中沿着鞑靼瓷砖刮擦而得来的。人们很少见到他；至少我从来没有见过他，除非是在更偏远的南方海域，而且总是距离太远，无法研究他的面容。他从不被追赶；他会用绳索逃跑。人们都传说他是神童。再见，硫磺底！对于你们来说，我无话可说，最年长的楠塔基特人也无话可说。

Thus ends BOOK I. (FOLIO), and now begins BOOK II. (OCTAVO).
第一册（对开本）就此结束，现在开始第二册。 （奥克塔沃）。

OCTAVOES.*—These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which present may be numbered:—I., the GRAMPUS; II., the BLACK FISH; III., the NARWHALE; IV., the THRASHER; V., the KILLER.
八角鲸*——这些鲸鱼包括中等大小的鲸鱼，其中包括：——I.，鲸鱼； II.、黑鱼； III.、独角鲸； IV.，THRASHER； V.，杀手。

*Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain. Because, while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of the former order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them in figure, yet the bookbinder’s Quarto volume in its dimensioned form does not preserve the shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume does.
*为什么这本关于鲸鱼的书不命名为四开本，原因很简单。因为，尽管该目鲸鱼虽然比前目鲸鱼小，但在体形上仍然与它们保持着比例相似，而装订商的四开本在其尺寸形式上并没有保留对开本的形状，而是保留了八开本的形状音量确实如此。

BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER I. (GRAMPUS).—Though this fish, whose loud sonorous breathing, or rather blowing, has furnished a proverb to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of the deep, yet is he not popularly classed among whales. But possessing all the grand distinctive features of the leviathan, most naturalists have recognised him for one. He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the waist. He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is considerable in quantity, and pretty good for light. By some fishermen his approach is regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.
第二册。 （奥克塔沃），第一章（鲸鱼）。——尽管这种鱼以其响亮而响亮的呼吸声，或者更确切地说是吹气声，为陆地上的人们提供了一句谚语，是众所周知的深海居民，但它并不被普遍归入鲸鱼之中。但由于拥有利维坦的所有显着特征，大多数博物学家都承认他是其中之一。他的身材中等八开，长度从十五英尺到二十五英尺不等，腰围也有相应的尺寸。他成群结队地游泳；尽管他的石油数量相当可观，而且非常适合照明，但他从未经常被猎杀。一些渔民认为他的接近是抹香鲸前进的预兆。

BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER II. (BLACK FISH).—I give the popular fishermen’s names for all these fish, for generally they are the best. Where any name happens to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and suggest another. I do so now, touching the Black Fish, so-called, because blackness is the rule among almost all whales. So, call him the Hyena Whale, if you please. His voracity is well known, and from the circumstance that the inner angles of his lips are curved upwards, he carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his face. This whale averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almost all latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not more profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment—as some frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by themselves, burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax. Though their blubber is very thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of thirty gallons of oil.
第二册。 （OCTAVO），第二章。 （黑鱼）——我给所有这些鱼起了流行的渔民的名字，因为一般来说它们是最好的。如果任何名称碰巧含糊或缺乏表达力，我会这样说，并建议另一个名称。我现在这样做，触摸所谓的黑鱼，因为黑色是几乎所有鲸鱼的规则。所以，如果你愿意的话，可以叫他鬣狗鲸。他的贪婪是众所周知的，从他嘴唇内角向上弯曲的情况来看，他的脸上永远挂着恶魔般的笑容。这条鲸鱼的平均长度约为十六或十八英尺。几乎所有纬度地区都可以找到他的身影。他在游泳时有一种奇特的方式展示背钩鳍，看起来有点像罗马鼻子。当没有更有利可图的工作时，抹香鲸猎人有时会捕获鬣狗，以维持国内就业的廉价石油供应——就像一些节俭的管家，在没有陪伴的情况下，独自一人，燃烧难闻的牛油而不是有气味的蜡。尽管鲸脂很薄，但其中一些鲸鱼可以为您产出超过三十加仑的油。

BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER III. (NARWHALE), that is, NOSTRIL WHALE.—Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The creature is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet. Strictly speaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw in a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is only found on the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left-handed man. What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard to say. It does not seem to be used like the blade of the sword-fish and bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale employs it for a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food. Charley Coffin said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the surface of the Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks through. But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be correct. My own opinion is, that however this one-sided horn may really be used by the Narwhale—however that may be—it would certainly be very convenient to him for a folder in reading pamphlets. The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked whale, the Horned whale, and the Unicorn whale. He is certainly a curious example of the Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature. From certain cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same sea-unicorn’s horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices. It was also distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn. Originally it was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity. Black Letter tells me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window of Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down the Thames; ‘when Sir Martin returned from that voyage,’ saith Black Letter, ‘on bended knees he presented to her highness a prodigious long horn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in the castle at Windsor.’ An Irish author avers that the Earl of Leicester, on bended knees, did likewise present to her highness another horn, pertaining to a land beast of the unicorn nature.
第二册。 （OCTAVO），第三章。 （NARWHALE），即鼻孔鲸。——又是一种名字奇怪的鲸鱼，我想是因为它奇特的角最初被误认为是尖鼻子而得名。这种生物大约有十六英尺长，而它的角平均有五英尺，尽管有些超过十英尺，甚至达到十五英尺。严格来说，这个角不过是一根加长的獠牙，从下颌处长出，呈一条比水平线稍微凹陷的线。但它只出现在邪恶的一面，这会产生不良影响，使其拥有者看起来像一个笨拙的左撇子。这个象牙角或长矛的确切用途是什么，很难说。它的使用方式似乎不像旗鱼和旗鱼的刀刃；尽管一些水手告诉我，独角鲸用它作为耙子，在海底翻动寻找食物。查理·科芬说它是用来做破冰器的；独角鲸升到极地海面，发现海面覆盖着冰，于是将角向上推，就这样突破了。但你无法证明这些推测都是正确的。我个人的看法是，不管独角鲸真的会使用这种单侧的角——不管怎样——对于他来说，当一个文件夹来阅读小册子时，它肯定会非常方便。我听说独角鲸被称为獠牙鲸、角鲸和独角鲸。他无疑是独角兽主义的一个奇怪的例子，几乎在每个生气勃勃的自然王国中都能找到它。我从某些隐居的老作家那里得知，这种海独角兽的角在古代被认为是解毒的良药，因此，它的制备会带来巨大的价格。 它还被蒸馏成挥发性盐，供晕倒的女士使用，就像将雄鹿的角制成鹿角一样。最初它本身就被认为是一个令人非常好奇的对象。 《黑信》告诉我，马丁·弗罗比舍爵士从那次航行归来时，贝丝女王从格林威治宫的窗户里向他勇敢地挥动着她戴着珠宝的手，当时他那艘勇敢的船沿着泰晤士河航行； “当马丁爵士从那次航行归来时，”布莱克莱特说道，“他跪下向女王殿下赠送了一只独角鲸的巨大长角，此后很长一段时间，它都挂在温莎城堡里。”一位爱尔兰作家断言，莱斯特伯爵也同样跪下，向殿下赠送了另一只角，那是一只具有独角兽性质的陆地野兽。

The Narwhale has a very picturesque, leopard-like look, being of a milk-white ground colour, dotted with round and oblong spots of black. His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there is little of it, and he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas.
独角鲸的外观非常美丽，像豹子一样，呈乳白色底色，点缀着圆形和椭圆形的黑色斑点。他的油非常上乘，清澈细腻；但它的数量很少，而且很少有人追捕他。他主要出现在环极地海域。

BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER IV. (KILLER).—Of this whale little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professed naturalist. From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should say that he was about the bigness of a grampus. He is very savage—a sort of Feegee fish. He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and hangs there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death. The Killer is never hunted. I never heard what sort of oil he has. Exception might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground of its indistinctness. For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and Sharks included.
第二册。 （OCTAVO），第四章。 （杀手）——楠塔基特人对这种鲸鱼知之甚少，而自称博物学家的人更是一无所知。从我远远看到的来看，我应该说他大约有鲸鱼那么大。他非常野蛮——一种费吉鱼。有时他会抓住巨大的福利奥鲸鱼的嘴唇，像水蛭一样挂在那里，直到这头强大的野兽被担心死。杀手永远不会被追捕。我从来没听说过他的油是什么牌子的。由于这条鲸鱼的名字模糊不清，因此给它起的名字可能是个例外。因为我们都是杀手，无论是在陆地上还是在海上；包括波拿巴和鲨鱼。

BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER V. (THRASHER).—This gentleman is famous for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He mounts the Folio whale’s back, and as he swims, he works his passage by flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar process. Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Both are outlaws, even in the lawless seas.
第二册。 （OCTAVO），第五章（THRASHER）。——这位绅士以其尾巴而闻名，他用尾巴作为套圈来殴打他的敌人。他骑在福利奥鲸鱼的背上，一边游一边用鞭打的方式让鲸鱼顺利通过。正如一些校长通过类似的过程在世界上相处一样。人们对鸫鸫的了解还不如对杀手的了解。即使在无法无天的海洋中，两人都是亡命之徒。

Thus ends BOOK II. (OCTAVO), and begins BOOK III. (DUODECIMO).
第二册就此结束。 （OCTAVO），并开始第三册。 （多德西莫）。

DUODECIMOES.—These include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise. II. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise.
DOUDECIMOES.——其中包括较小的鲸鱼。 I. 胡扎海豚。二.阿尔及利亚江豚。三．粉嘴江豚。

To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it may possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five feet should be marshalled among WHALES—a word, which, in the popular sense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set down above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my definition of what a whale is—i.e. a spouting fish, with a horizontal tail.
对于那些没有机会专门研究这个主题的人来说，可能会觉得很奇怪，通常不超过四五英尺的鱼竟然被归入鲸鱼之中——这个词在通俗意义上总是传达出巨大的概念。但根据我对鲸鱼的定义，上面提到的 Duodecimoes 生物绝对是鲸鱼——即鲸鱼。一条水平尾巴的喷水鱼。

BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER 1. (HUZZA PORPOISE).—This is the common porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my own bestowal; for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something must be done to distinguish them. I call him thus, because he always swims in hilarious shoals, which upon the broad sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a Fourth-of-July crowd. Their appearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner. Full of fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward. They are the lads that always live before the wind. They are accounted a lucky omen. If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly gamesomeness is not in ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield you one good gallon of good oil. But the fine and delicate fluid extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable. It is in request among jewellers and watchmakers. Sailors put it on their hones. Porpoise meat is good eating, you know. It may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts. Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not very readily discernible. But the next time you have a chance, watch him; and you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in miniature.
第三册。 (DUODECIMO)，第 1 章。（HUZZA PORPOISE）。——这是几乎在全球各地都能发现的常见鼠海豚。这个名字是我自己赐予的；因为鼠海豚的种类不止一种，必须采取一些措施来区分它们。我这样称呼他，是因为他总是在欢闹的浅滩中游泳，这些浅滩在广阔的大海上不断地向天堂抛去，就像七月四日人群中的帽子一样。它们的出现通常受到水手们的欢迎。他们精神抖擞，总是从微风的巨浪中迎风而来。他们是永远活在风前的小伙子。它们被认为是幸运的预兆。如果你自己能在看到这些活泼的鱼时发出三声欢呼，那么老天保佑你；你们身上没有敬虔游戏的精神。一只吃得饱饱的、肥硕的胡扎江豚将为您产出一加仑的优质油。但从他的下巴中提取出来的细腻液体却极其珍贵。这是珠宝商和制表师的需求。水手们把它放在他们的头上。海豚肉很好吃，你知道的。你可能从来没有想到过海豚会喷水。事实上，他的喷口太小了，不太容易辨认。但下次你有机会的时候，留意他；然后您就会看到伟大的抹香鲸本人的缩影。

BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER II. (ALGERINE PORPOISE).—A pirate. Very savage. He is only found, I think, in the Pacific. He is somewhat larger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make. Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him many times, but never yet saw him captured.
第三册。 （DUODECIMO），第二章。 （阿尔及利亚海豚）——海盗。非常野蛮。我认为他只在太平洋被发现。他比胡扎江豚稍大一些，但总体构造基本相同。激怒他，他就会屈服于鲨鱼。我曾多次为他降下，但从未见过他被俘。

BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER III. (MEALY-MOUTHED PORPOISE).—The largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far as it is known. The only English name, by which he has hitherto been designated, is that of the fishers—Right-Whale Porpoise, from the circumstance that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio. In shape, he differs in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like figure. He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue. But his mealy-mouth spoils all. Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship’s hull, called the ‘bright waist,’ that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two separate colours, black above and white below. The white comprises part of his head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he had just escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-bag. A most mean and mealy aspect! His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.
第三册。 （DUODECIMO），第三章。 （粉嘴江豚）——体型最大的江豚；据目前所知，仅在太平洋发现。迄今为止，它被指定的唯一英文名称是渔民的名字——Right-Whale Porpoise，因为它主要是在该 Folio 附近被发现的。在体形上，它与胡扎江豚有一定的不同，它的体形不那么圆润，周长也不那么欢快。确实，他的身材相当整洁，颇有绅士风度。它的背上没有鳍（大多数其他鼠海豚都有），它有一条可爱的尾巴，还有一双深邃的印度式淡褐色眼睛。但他的嘴巴毁了一切。虽然他的整个背部一直到侧鳍都是深紫貂色，但有一条边界线，像船体上的标记一样清晰，称为“亮腰”，这条线从船头到船尾，有两种不同的颜色，上面黑色，下面白色。白色覆盖了他的部分头部和整个嘴巴，这让他看起来就像刚刚从一次对饭袋的重罪中逃脱。这是一个最卑鄙和最卑鄙的方面！他的油很像普通江豚的油。

Beyond the DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as the Porpoise is the smallest of the whales. Above, you have all the Leviathans of note. But there are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally. I shall enumerate them by their fore-castle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. If any of the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then he can readily be incorporated into this System, according to his Folio, Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:—The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale; the Pudding-Headed Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon Whale; the Scragg Whale; the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic, Dutch, and old English authorities, there might be quoted other lists of uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But I omit them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting them for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing.
除了 DUODECIMO 之外，该系统不再继续，因为海豚是最小的鲸鱼。上面是所有值得注意的利维坦。但也有一群不确定的、逃亡的、半神话般的鲸鱼，作为一名美国捕鲸人，我通过声誉了解这些鲸鱼，但不是亲自了解它们。我将通过他们的前堡名称来列举它们。因为这样的清单可能对未来的调查人员有价值，他们可能会完成我在这里已经开始的工作。如果以后捕获并标记以下任何鲸鱼，则可以根据其 Folio、Octavo 或 Duodecimo 星等轻松将其纳入此系统： — 瓶鼻鲸；垃圾鲸；布丁头鲸；角鲸；领头鲸；炮鲸；斯克拉格鲸；铜鲸；象鲸；冰山鲸；库格鲸；蓝鲸；冰岛、荷兰和古英国当局可能会引用其他不确定的鲸鱼名单，并附有各种粗俗的名字。但我忽略了它们，因为它们已经完全过时了；人们不禁怀疑它们仅仅是声音，充满了利维坦主义，但没有任何意义。

Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system would not be here, and at once, perfected. You cannot but plainly see that I have kept my word. But I now leave my cetological System standing thus unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For small erections may be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever completing anything. This whole book is but a draught—nay, but the draught of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!
最后：一开始就说过，这个系统不会立即完善。你不能不清楚地看到我遵守了诺言。但我现在让我的鲸类学系统未完成，就像伟大的科隆大教堂被留下一样，起重机仍然矗立在未完成的塔顶上。因为小型建筑可能由第一批建筑师完成；伟大的人，真正的人，永远为后人留下墓碑。上帝阻止我完成任何事情。整本书只是一个草稿——不，只是草稿中的草稿。哦，时间、力量、现金和耐心！

Chapter 33
第33章

The Specksynder.
斯派克森德。

Concerning the officers of the whale-craft, this seems as good a place as any to set down a little domestic peculiarity on ship-board, arising from the existence of the harpooneer class of officers, a class unknown of course in any other marine than the whale-fleet.
对于捕鲸船的军官来说，这似乎是一个很好的地方，可以在船上记录一些国内的特色，这些特色源于军官中标枪手阶层的存在，当然，除了其他海军陆战队员之外，这一阶层是未知的。鲸鱼舰队

The large importance attached to the harpooneer’s vocation is evinced by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries and more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in the person now called the captain, but was divided between him and an officer called the Specksynder. Literally this word means Fat-Cutter; usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer. In those days, the captain’s authority was restricted to the navigation and general management of the vessel; while over the whale-hunting department and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer reigned supreme. In the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted title of Specksioneer, this old Dutch official is still retained, but his former dignity is sadly abridged. At present he ranks simply as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is but one of the captain’s more inferior subalterns. Nevertheless, as upon the good conduct of the harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely depends, and since in the American Fishery he is not only an important officer in the boat, but under certain circumstances (night watches on a whaling ground) the command of the ship’s deck is also his; therefore the grand political maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart from the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their professional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as their social equal.
两个多世纪前的古老荷兰渔业中，捕鲸船的指挥权并不完全由现在称为船长的人负责，而是由两个人共同负责。他和一位名叫斯佩克辛德的军官。这个词的字面意思是“减脂者”。然而，随着时间的推移，它的用法使其等同于酋长鱼叉手。当时，船长的权力仅限于船舶的航行和一般管理；而在捕鲸部门及其所有事务上，斯佩克辛德（Specksynder）或首席鱼叉手占据了至高无上的地位。在英国格陵兰渔业局，这位荷兰老官员仍然以“Specksioneer”的腐败头衔保留下来，但他昔日的尊严却不幸被削弱了。目前他只是高级鱼叉手。因此，他只是船长手下地位较低的副官之一。然而，由于标枪手的良好行为，捕鲸航行的成功在很大程度上取决于，因为在美国渔业中，他不仅是船上的重要官员，而且在某些情况下（捕鲸场的夜间值班）船的甲板也是他的；因此，海洋的伟大政治格言要求，他名义上应该与桅杆前的人们分开生活，并在某种程度上被视为他们的专业上级；尽管他们总是普遍认为他们是社会平等的。

Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, is this—the first lives aft, the last forward. Hence, in whale-ships and merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in the after part of the ship. That is to say, they take their meals in the captain’s cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it.
现在，海上军官和船员之间的重大区别是：第一个住在船尾，最后一个住在前面。因此，无论是捕鲸船还是商船，大副都与船长同住。同样，在大多数美国捕鲸船上，鱼叉手都安置在船的后部。也就是说，他们在船长舱里吃饭，在与船长舱间接相通的地方睡觉。

Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest of all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and the community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high or low, depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their common luck, together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and hard work; though all these things do in some cases tend to beget a less rigorous discipline than in merchantmen generally; yet, never mind how much like an old Mesopotamian family these whalemen may, in some primitive instances, live together; for all that, the punctilious externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed, and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the shabbiest of pilot-cloth.
尽管南方捕鲸航行的时间很长（迄今为止，是迄今为止人类进行的所有航行中最长的一次），但其特有的危险以及公司之间普遍存在的利益共同体，所有这些公司，无论地位高低，都取决于他们的利润不是靠固定的工资，而是靠他们共同的运气，以及他们共同的警惕、勇敢和辛勤工作；尽管所有这些事情在某些情况下往往会导致比一般商人更不严格的纪律；然而，不管这些捕鲸人在某些原始情况下生活在一起多么像一个古老的美索不达米亚家庭。尽管如此，至少尾甲板的一丝不苟的外表很少在物质上放松，而且在任何情况下都没有消失。事实上，在许多楠塔基特舰上，您会看到船长在他的尾甲板上展示着任何一支海军都无法比拟的兴高采烈的气势。不仅如此，他还向人们索取外在的敬意，就好像他穿着皇家紫色的衣服，而不是最破旧的飞行员服一样。

And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the quarter-deck; and though there were times when, owing to peculiar circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed, he addressed them in unusual terms, whether of condescension or IN TERROREM, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.
尽管在所有人中，喜怒无常的“裴阔德”号船长是最不相信这种最肤浅的假设的。尽管他所要求的唯一的敬意是绝对的、即时的服从。尽管他要求任何人在踏上尾甲板之前脱掉脚上的鞋子；尽管有时，由于与下文将要详述的事件相关的特殊情况，他以不寻常的措辞谈论这些事件，无论是居高临下还是出于恐吓，或者其他原因；然而，即使是亚哈船长也绝不忽视海洋的最重要形式和用途。

Nor, perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally making use of them for other and more private ends than they were legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sultanism of his brain, which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested; through those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an irresistible dictatorship. For be a man’s intellectual superiority what it will, it can never assume the practical, available supremacy over other men, without the aid of some sort of external arts and entrenchments, always, in themselves, more or less paltry and base. This it is, that for ever keeps God’s true princes of the Empire from the world’s hustings; and leaves the highest honours that this air can give, to those men who become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice hidden handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted superiority over the dead level of the mass. Such large virtue lurks in these small things when extreme political superstitions invest them, that in some royal instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted potency. But when, as in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire encircles an imperial brain; then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization. Nor, will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its fullest sweep and direct swing, ever forget a hint, incidentally so important in his art, as the one now alluded to.
也许，人们最终也不会忽视，在这些形式和用法的背后，他有时会隐藏自己。顺便将它们用于其他比其合法目的更私人的目的。他大脑中的某种苏丹主义在很大程度上并未表现出来。通过这些形式，同样的苏丹政权化身为不可抗拒的独裁统治。因为无论一个人的智力优势如何，如果没有某种外在艺术和防御的帮助，它永远不可能对其他人取得实际的、可用的至高无上的地位，而其本身总是或多或少微不足道和卑鄙的。正是这一点，使上帝真正的帝国王子永远免受世人的围攻。并将这种空气所能给予的最高荣誉留给了那些因对神圣惰性中精选的隐藏少数人的无限自卑而出名的人，而不是通过他们对大众的毫无疑问的优越性而出名。当极端的政治迷信赋予它们时，这些小事中就潜藏着如此伟大的美德，以至于在一些王室例子中，甚至对白痴低能来说，​​它们也赋予了效力。但是，正如沙皇尼古拉斯的情况一样，地理帝国的皇冠环绕着帝国的大脑；然后，平民百姓在巨大的集权面前屈服了。那些以最全面和最直接的方式描绘凡人的不屈不挠的悲剧剧作家也不会忘记一个暗示，顺便说一句，正如现在提到的那样，这一暗示在他的艺术中非常重要。

But Ahab, my Captain, still moves before me in all his Nantucket grimness and shagginess; and in this episode touching Emperors and Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with a poor old whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical trappings and housings are denied me. Oh, Ahab! what shall be grand in thee, it must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and featured in the unbodied air!
但亚哈，我的船长，仍然在我面前走来走去，一脸楠塔基特的冷酷和蓬乱。在这一涉及皇帝和国王的插曲中，我不能隐瞒我只与像他这样的可怜的老捕鲸者有关。因此，所有外在的宏伟装饰和住房都被我拒绝了。哦，亚哈！你身上有什么伟大的东西，必须从天空中摘取，潜入深处，并在无形的空气中呈现！

Chapter 34
第34章

The Cabin-Table.
客舱桌子。

It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scuttle, announces dinner to his lord and master; who, sitting in the lee quarter-boat, has just been taking an observation of the sun; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on the smooth, medallion-shaped tablet, reserved for that daily purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg. From his complete inattention to the tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not heard his menial. But presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he swings himself to the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying, ‘Dinner, Mr. Starbuck,’ disappears into the cabin.
现在是中午;管家面团小子从舱窗里探出他那张苍白的面包脸，宣布向他的主人和主人准备晚餐。他坐在背风尾船上，刚刚观察太阳；现在他正在默默地计算着光滑的徽章形状的平板电脑上的纬度，这块平板电脑是为日常用途而保留在他的象牙腿的上部。从他对消息的完全不注意来看，你会认为喜怒无常的亚哈没有听到他的仆人。但不久，他抓住了后帆罩，摇摇晃晃地来到了甲板上，用平静、不兴奋的声音说：“吃晚饭了，斯塔巴克先生。”然后就消失在船舱里了。

When the last echo of his sultan’s step has died away, and Starbuck, the first Emir, has every reason to suppose that he is seated, then Starbuck rouses from his quietude, takes a few turns along the planks, and, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says, with some touch of pleasantness, ‘Dinner, Mr. Stubb,’ and descends the scuttle. The second Emir lounges about the rigging awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to see whether it will be all right with that important rope, he likewise takes up the old burden, and with a rapid ‘Dinner, Mr. Flask,’ follows after his predecessors.
当他的苏丹脚步声最后的回声消失，第一任埃米尔斯塔巴克有充分的理由认为他已经坐下时，斯塔巴克从安静中醒来，沿着木板转了几圈，然后，在沉重的窥视之后进入罗经柜，带着一丝愉快地说：“晚餐，斯塔布先生。”然后走下舷窗。第二位埃米尔在索具上闲逛了一会儿，然后轻轻摇动主支架，看看那条重要的绳子是否可以，他同样拿起了旧的负担，并快速地说“晚餐，烧瓶先生”，追随他的前任。

But the third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck, seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all sorts of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his shoes, he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over the Grand Turk’s head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so far at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing all other processions, by bringing up the rear with music. But ere stepping into the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether, and, then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab’s presence, in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.
但第三位埃米尔现在看到自己独自一人在尾甲板上，似乎从某种奇怪的束缚中解脱出来；因为，他向各个方向眨着各种会意的眼色，踢掉鞋子，在大土耳其人的头顶上敲响了尖锐但无声的角笛狂风。然后，他灵巧地把帽子扔到后顶上当架子，欢快地走下去，至少从甲板上仍然可以看到他，通过音乐在后面指挥，扭转了所有其他游行队伍。但在踏入下面的小屋门口之前，他停了下来，换了一张全新的面孔，然后，独立、滑稽的小弗拉斯克以“Abjectus”或“奴隶”的角色出现在亚哈国王面前。

It is not the least among the strange things bred by the intense artificialness of sea-usages, that while in the open air of the deck some officers will, upon provocation, bear themselves boldly and defyingly enough towards their commander; yet, ten to one, let those very officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that same commander’s cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not to say deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Wherefore this difference? A problem? Perhaps not. To have been Belshazzar, King of Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously, therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur. But he who in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own private dinner-table of invited guests, that man’s unchallenged power and dominion of individual influence for the time; that man’s royalty of state transcends Belshazzar’s, for Belshazzar was not the greatest. Who has but once dined his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar. It is a witchery of social czarship which there is no withstanding. Now, if to this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of a ship-master, then, by inference, you will derive the cause of that peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.
海上使用的强烈人为性所产生的奇怪现象中，最重要的一点是，当在甲板上的露天时，一些军官在受到挑衅时，会大胆地、蔑视地对待他们的指挥官；然而，十比一，让那些军官下一刻在同一个指挥官的房间里去吃他们惯常的晚餐，当他坐在桌子的一头时，立即对他表现出无礼的态度，更不用说蔑视和谦卑的态度了；这是奇妙的，有时甚至是最滑稽的。为什么会有这种差异？一个问题？也许不是。曾是巴比伦国王伯沙撒；作为伯沙撒，不是傲慢而是彬彬有礼，其中肯定有一些世俗的宏伟。但是，如果一个人以适当的帝王和聪明的精神主持自己的私人晚宴，邀请客人，那么这个人在当时的个人影响力和个人影响力的统治地位是无可挑战的。这个人的王权超越了伯沙撒的王权，因为伯沙撒并不是最伟大的。谁曾与朋友共进晚餐，谁就尝过成为凯撒的滋味。这是社会沙皇制度的魔力，无法抗拒。现在，如果你在考虑这一点的基础上加上船长的官方至高无上的地位，那么，通过推论，你就会得出刚才提到的海洋生物的特殊性的原因。

Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion on the white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still deferential cubs. In his own proper turn, each officer waited to be served. They were as little children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab, there seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance. With one mind, their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man’s knife, as he carved the chief dish before him. I do not suppose that for the world they would have profaned that moment with the slightest observation, even upon so neutral a topic as the weather. No! And when reaching out his knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked, Ahab thereby motioned Starbuck’s plate towards him, the mate received his meat as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started if, perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it noiselessly; and swallowed it, not without circumspection. For, like the Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly dines with the seven Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were somehow solemn meals, eaten in awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab forbade not conversation; only he himself was dumb. What a relief it was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold below. And poor little Flask, he was the youngest son, and little boy of this weary family party. His were the shinbones of the saline beef; his would have been the drumsticks. For Flask to have presumed to help himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in the first degree. Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world; nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flask helped himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it. Least of all, did Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whether he thought the owners of the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear, sunny complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage in such marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas! was a butterless man!
在他的象牙镶嵌桌子上，亚哈像白色珊瑚海滩上一头沉默的鬃毛海狮一样主持着会议，周围环绕着他好战但仍然恭敬的幼崽。每位军官都按照自己的顺序等待着服务。他们在亚哈面前就像小孩子一样；然而，在亚哈身上，似乎没有潜藏着哪怕是最微小的社会傲慢。他们的目光齐齐集中在老者的刀上，老者正在切着面前的主菜。我不认为他们会通过最轻微的观察来亵渎那一刻，即使是在天气这样中性的话题上。不！当亚哈伸出刀叉时，牛肉片锁在刀叉之间，从而将星巴克的盘子向他示意，大副接受了他的肉，就像接受施舍一样；温柔地切它；如果刀碰巧擦到了盘子，那就有点开始了。无声地咀嚼着；并小心翼翼地吞下了它。因为，就像法兰克福的加冕宴会一样，德国皇帝与七位帝国选帝侯一起进餐，所以这些客舱餐食在某种程度上是庄严的饭菜，在可怕的沉默中享用；然而，在餐桌上，老亚哈并不禁止谈话。只有他自己傻了。当一只老鼠在下面的货舱里突然发出喧闹声时，窒息的斯塔布真是松了口气。可怜的小弗拉斯克，他是最小的儿子，也是这个疲惫的家庭聚会中的小男孩。他的是咸牛肉的胫骨；他的应该是鸡腿。对于弗拉斯克来说，他竟然想帮自己，这在他看来肯定等同于一级盗窃罪。毫无疑问，如果他在那张桌子上自助，他就再也无法在这个诚实的世界里昂首挺胸了；然而，奇怪的是，亚哈从未禁止他。 如果弗拉斯克帮了自己，亚哈很可能根本就没有注意到这一点。最重要的是，弗拉斯克没有主动给自己涂黄油。他是否认为船主拒绝了他，因为它堵塞了他清澈、阳光明媚的肤色？或者他是否认为，在如此无市场的水域中进行这么长时间的航行，黄油非常珍贵，因此对他来说不是一个下等人？不管怎样，Flask，唉！是一个没有黄油的人！

Another thing. Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask’s dinner was badly jammed in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him; and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If Stubb even, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small appetite, and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask must bestir himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day; for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck. Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private, that ever since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never known what it was to be otherwise than hungry, more or less. For what he ate did not so much relieve his hunger, as keep it immortal in him. Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed from my stomach. I am an officer; but, how I wish I could fish a bit of old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to when I was before the mast. There’s the fruits of promotion now; there’s the vanity of glory: there’s the insanity of life! Besides, if it were so that any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask’s official capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance, was to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky-light, sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab.
另一件事。 Flask 是晚宴上最后一个下来的人，而 Flask 是第一个起身的人。考虑！因为弗拉斯克的晚餐时间被严重堵塞了。星巴克和斯塔布都是从他开始的。但他们也有权利躺在后面。如果斯塔布比弗拉斯克只高出一个钉子，而他的胃口却很小，而且很快就出现了吃完饭的症状，那么弗拉斯克必须振作起来，他那天吃的不会超过三口；因为斯塔布先于弗拉斯克上牌是违反神圣用法的。因此，弗拉斯克曾经私下承认，自从他获得了军官的尊严，从那一刻起，他就或多或少地不知道除了饥饿之外还有什么。因为他吃的东西并没有减轻他的饥饿感，而是让饥饿感永远留在他体内。弗拉斯克想，平静和满足已经永远离开了我的胃。我是一名军官；但是，我多么希望能在前甲板上钓一点老式牛肉，就像我以前在桅杆前那样。现在已经有推广的成果了；这是荣耀的虚荣：这是生活的疯狂！此外，如果培阔德号上的任何一个水手以弗拉斯克的官方身份对弗拉斯克怀有怨恨，那么为了获得充分的报复，该水手所要做的就是在晚餐时间到船尾去窥视一下。透过机舱的天窗看到弗拉斯克，傻乎乎地坐在可怕的亚哈面前。

Now, Ahab and his three mates formed what may be called the first table in the Pequod’s cabin. After their departure, taking place in inverted order to their arrival, the canvas cloth was cleared, or rather was restored to some hurried order by the pallid steward. And then the three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being its residuary legatees. They made a sort of temporary servants’ hall of the high and mighty cabin.
现在，亚哈和他的三个伙伴组成了“裴阔德号”船舱中所谓的第一张桌子。他们离开后，帆布布被清理干净，或者更确切地说，被苍白的管家恢复到某种匆忙的秩序，这与他们到达的顺序相反。然后，三位标枪手被邀请参加宴会，他们是宴会的剩余继承人。他们在高大的小屋里建造了一个临时的仆人大厅。

In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint and nameless invisible domineerings of the captain’s table, was the entire care-free license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior fellows the harpooneers. While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food with such a relish that there was a report to it. They dined like lords; they filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices. Such portentous appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out the vacancies made by the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of the solid ox. And if he were not lively about it, if he did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his back, harpoon-wise. And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted Dough-Boy’s memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out the circle preliminary to scalping him. He was naturally a very nervous, shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny of a bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse. And what with the standing spectacle of the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these three savages, Dough-Boy’s whole life was one continual lip-quiver. Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished with all things they demanded, he would escape from their clutches into his little pantry adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door, till all was over.
与船长餐桌上令人难以忍受的约束和无名无形的霸道形成鲜明对比的是，那些低等标枪手的无忧无虑的放纵和安逸，以及近乎疯狂的民主。当他们的主人，即副手，似乎害怕自己下巴铰链发出的声音时，标枪手们却津津有味地咀嚼着食物，以至于有人对此进行了报告。他们像贵族一样用餐；他们像印度船只一样整天装满香料，填饱肚子。奎魁格和塔什泰戈的胃口如此之大，以至于为了填补上一顿饭留下的空缺，苍白的面团男孩常常很乐意带来一大堆盐垃圾，似乎是从实心牛身上挖出来的。如果他对此不感兴趣，如果他没有灵活地一跳一跳，那么塔什特戈就会用一种不绅士的方式来加速他，用鱼叉般的方式在他背后猛击叉子。有一次，达古突发奇想，把他的身体抓起来，把他的头伸进一个巨大的空木槽里，以帮助面团男孩恢复记忆，而塔什特戈则手里拿着刀，开始摆出圆圈，准备剥他的头皮。这位长着面包脸的管家，自然是一个非常紧张、浑身发抖的小家伙。破产面包师和医院护士的后代。面对可怕的黑色亚哈的站立奇观，以及这三个野蛮人周期性的喧闹造访，面团男孩的一生都在不断地嘴唇颤抖。通常，在看到标枪手们配备了他们需要的所有东西后，他会逃离他们的魔掌，躲进隔壁的小储藏室，透过门上的百叶窗恐惧地向外张望，直到一切都结束。

It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing his filed teeth to the Indian’s: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated on the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the low carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the low cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in a ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious, not to say dainty. It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad, baronial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savage fed strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and through his dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not by beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had a mortal, barbaric smack of the lip in eating—an ugly sound enough—so much so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms. And when he would hear Tashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might be picked, the simple-witted steward all but shattered the crockery hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy. Nor did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for their lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner, they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did not at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy. How could he forget that in his Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy! hard fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkin should he carry on his arm, but a buckler. In good time, though, to his great delight, the three salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous, fable-mongering ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every step, like Moorish scimetars in scabbards.
奎魁格坐在塔什特戈对面，他的锉牙与印第安人的牙齿对峙，这是一幅景象：达古坐在地板上，与他们交叉，因为一张长凳可以把他那灵车羽毛般的头带到低矮的卡林斯；他巨大的四肢的每一个动作都会使低矮的客舱框架摇晃起来，就像非洲象乘船时一样。但尽管如此，这位伟大的黑人却非常节制，更不用说精致了。看起来他几乎不可能通过这么小口的口气来维持一个如此宽广、宏伟和卓越的人所散发的活力。但是，毫无疑问，这个高贵的野蛮人吃得很饱，喝得很丰富。并通过他扩张的鼻孔窒息了世界的崇高生活。巨人不是由牛肉或面包制成或滋养的。但是魁魁格，他吃东西时会发出一种致命的、野蛮的咂嘴声——一种丑陋的声音——以至于颤抖的面团男孩几乎要看看自己瘦弱的手臂上是否潜伏着任何牙齿的痕迹。当他听到塔什特戈大声喊叫，要他现身，以便可以剔除他的骨头时，这位头脑简单的管家突然麻痹，差点把他挂在食品储藏室里的陶器打碎。标枪手口袋里装着长矛和其他武器的磨刀石也没有。晚餐时，他们会炫耀地用这些磨刀石磨刀。那刺耳的声音根本无法让可怜的面团男孩平静下来。他怎么可能忘记，在岛上的日子里，奎魁格肯定犯下了一些凶残、欢乐的轻率行为。唉!面团男孩！招待食人者的白人服务员的处境很艰难。他手臂上不应携带餐巾，而应携带小圆盾。 不过，让他非常高兴的是，到了适当的时候，三个盐海战士就会起身离开。在他轻信、散布寓言的耳朵里，他们每走一步，身上所有的武士骨头都叮当作响，就像插在刀鞘里的摩尔人弯刀。

But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and nominally lived there; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits, they were scarcely ever in it except at mealtimes, and just before sleeping-time, when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.
但是，尽管这些野蛮人在小屋里吃饭，名义上也住在那里；不过，由于他们的习惯是不久坐，所以除了吃饭的时候和睡觉前穿过它到自己特殊的住处外，他们几乎从来不去里面。

In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale captains, who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights the ship’s cabin belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that anybody else is, at any time, permitted there. So that, in real truth, the mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might more properly be said to have lived out of the cabin than in it. For when they did enter it, it was something as a street-door enters a house; turning inwards for a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as a permanent thing, residing in the open air. Nor did they lose much hereby; in the cabin was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible. Though nominally included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it. He lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled Missouri. And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of the woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter there, sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age, Ahab’s soul, shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the sullen paws of its gloom!
在这件事上，亚哈对大多数美国鲸鱼船长来说似乎也不例外，作为一个整体，他们更倾向于认为船舱理应属于他们。出于礼貌，任何其他人在任何时候都可以进入那里。因此，事实上，“裴阔德”号的副手和标枪手可能更恰当地说是住在船舱外面，而不是住在船舱里。因为当他们真正进入它时，就像从临街的门进入房子一样。一会儿向内转，一会儿又转出来；并且，作为一种永久的事物，居住在露天。他们也没有因此损失太多。船舱里没有陪伴；在社交方面，亚哈难以接近。尽管名义上包括在基督教世界的人口普查中，但他仍然是一个外星人。他生活在这个世界上，就像最后一只恐怖熊生活在定居的密苏里州一样。春天和夏天过去后，森林里那个野性的洛根，把自己埋在树洞里，吮吸着自己的爪子，在那里过冬。因此，在他悲惨、嚎叫的晚年，亚哈的灵魂被关在他身体凹陷的躯干里，在那里以阴郁的阴郁爪子为食！

Chapter 35
第35章

The Mast-Head.
桅杆头。

It was during the more pleasant weather, that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast-head came round.
正是在天气比较宜人的时候，我的第一个桅杆头在与其他海员的适当轮换中转过来。

In most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost simultaneously with the vessel’s leaving her port; even though she may have fifteen thousand miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper cruising ground. And if, after a three, four, or five years’ voyage she is drawing nigh home with anything empty in her—say, an empty vial even—then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till her skysail-poles sail in among the spires of the port, does she altogether relinquish the hope of capturing one whale more.
大多数美国捕鲸者几乎在船只离开港口的同时就开始对桅杆进行操作。尽管她可能还有一万五千英里甚至更远的距离才能到达她正确的巡航地点。如果经过三年、四年或五年的航行，她即将回家时身上有任何空东西​​——比如说，甚至是一个空瓶子——那么，她的桅杆头会一直有人值守，直到最后；直到她的天帆杆驶入港口的尖塔之间，她才完全放弃了再捕获一头鲸鱼的希望。

Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here. I take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians; because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them. For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by their tower, have intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia, or Africa either; yet (ere the final truck was put to it) as that great stone mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in the dread gale of God’s wrath; therefore, we cannot give these Babel builders priority over the Egyptians. And that the Egyptians were a nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the general belief among archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight. In Saint Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a tackle; in him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who was not to be driven from his place by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet; but valiantly facing everything out to the last, literally died at his post. Of modern standers-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone, iron, and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale, are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering any strange sight. There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air; careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis Blanc, or Louis the Devil. Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on his towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules’ pillars, his column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go. Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke, token is yet given that a hidden hero is there; for where there is smoke, must be fire. But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a single hail from below, however madly invoked to befriend by their counsels the distracted decks upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that their spirits penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what shoals and what rocks must be shunned.
现在，由于在岸上或海上竖立桅杆头的业务是一项非常古老且有趣的业务，因此让我们在这里进行某种程度的阐述。我认为最早竖立桅杆头的是古埃及人。因为，在我所有的研究中，我没有发现任何先于他们的研究。因为，尽管他们的祖先，巴别塔的建造者，毫无疑问一定是想通过他们的塔楼来竖起全亚洲或非洲最崇高的桅杆头；然而（在最后一辆卡车被投入之前），他们的那根巨大的石桅杆可以说已经在上帝愤怒的可怕狂风中被击垮了；因此，我们不能让这些巴别塔建造者优先于埃及人。埃及人是一个桅顶站立的民族，这一断言基于考古学家的普遍信念，即第一座金字塔是为了天文目的而建造的：这一理论得到了金字塔所有四个侧面奇特的阶梯状结构的独特支持。那些建筑物；那些老天文学家习惯于将双腿大幅度抬起，登上顶峰，歌唱新星的出现。即使现代船舶的瞭望员鸣叫着航行，或者鲸鱼刚刚出现在视线中。在圣斯提利特（Saint Stylites）中，旧时代著名的基督教隐士，他在沙漠中为自己建造了一根高高的石柱，并在其顶上度过了他的后半生，用滑车从地面上吊起食物；在他身上，我们看到了一个无畏的站在桅杆上的非凡例子。他不会因雾、霜、雨、冰雹或雨夹雪而离开自己的位置；但他勇敢地面对一切，直到最后，死在自己的岗位上。 现代的桅杆头立柱，我们只有一套毫无生气的。只不过是石人、铁人、铜人；他们虽然能够很好地抵御强风，但仍然完全没有能力在发现任何奇怪的景象时大声喊出来。有拿破仑；他双臂交叉，站在旺多姆圆柱的顶端，高约一百五十英尺。粗心了，现在，谁统治着下面的甲板；无论是路易·菲利普、路易·勃朗还是魔鬼路易。伟大的华盛顿也高高地矗立在巴尔的摩高耸的主桅上，就像赫拉克勒斯的一根柱子一样，他的柱子标志着人类的伟大境界，很少有人能够超越。纳尔逊海军上将也站在特拉法加广场上的炮铜绞盘上；每当伦敦烟雾笼罩时，人们就会发现隐藏的英雄就在那里。因为有烟的地方一定有火。但无论是伟大的华盛顿、拿破仑还是纳尔逊，都不会回应来自下面的一声欢呼，无论他们的忠告多么疯狂地呼吁与他们所凝视的心烦意乱的甲板交朋友。然而，可以推测，他们的精神会穿透未来的浓重阴霾，并看到必须避开哪些浅滩和岩石。

It may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast-head standers of the land with those of the sea; but that in truth it is not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy, the sole historian of Nantucket, stands accountable. The worthy Obed tells us, that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were regularly launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected lofty spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means of nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house. A few years ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand, who, upon descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh the beach. But this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the one proper mast-head, that of a whale-ship at sea. The three mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the seamen taking their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other every two hours. In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful. There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and between your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with nothing ruffled but the waves. The tranced ship indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you into languor. For the most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read no gazettes; extras with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you into unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what you shall have for dinner—for all your meals for three years and more are snugly stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.
从任何方面来说，将陆地上的桅杆头立柱与海上的桅杆头立柱相结合似乎都是站不住脚的。但事实上并非如此，楠塔基特岛唯一的历史学家奥贝德·梅西负责的一个项目清楚地表明了这一点。值得尊敬的奥贝德告诉我们，在鲸鱼捕捞的早期，在船只定期出动捕鲸之前，岛上的人们沿着海岸竖起高高的桅杆，瞭望员通过手段登上桅杆。钉有钉子的防滑钉，就像鸡在鸡舍里上楼一样。几年前，新西兰的海湾捕鲸者也采用了同样的计划，他们在目睹了这场比赛后，向海滩附近的船只发出了通知。但现在这种习俗已经过时了。然后我们转向一个真正的桅杆头，海上捕鲸船的桅杆头。从日出到日落，三个桅杆头都有人值班。海员们定期轮班（如掌舵），每两小时互相换班。在热带宁静的天气里，桅顶是非常令人愉快的。不，对于一个爱做梦、沉思的人来说，这是令人愉快的。你站在那里，距离寂静的甲板一百英尺，沿着深海大步前进，仿佛桅杆是巨大的高跷，而在你的脚下和双腿之间，仿佛游动着大海中最巨大的怪物，就像曾经航行的船只一样在老罗德岛著名的巨像的靴子之间。你站在那里，迷失在无边无际的大海中，除了海浪之外，什么也没有起伏。恍惚的船懒洋洋地翻滚；昏昏欲睡的信风吹过；一切都让你陷入倦怠。 在大多数情况下，在热带捕鲸生活中，您会感受到一种崇高的平静。你没有听到任何消息；不阅读公报；临时演员对常见的事情进行惊人的叙述，永远不会让你陷入不必要的兴奋；你没有听说过任何家庭苦难；破产证券；股票下跌；你永远不会为晚餐吃什么而烦恼——因为三年或更长时间里你所有的饭菜都紧紧地存放在木桶里，而且你的账单是一成不变的。

In one of those southern whalesmen, on a long three or four years’ voyage, as often happens, the sum of the various hours you spend at the mast-head would amount to several entire months. And it is much to be deplored that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion of the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly destitute of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted to breed a comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a hammock, a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those small and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves. Your most usual point of perch is the head of the t’ gallant-mast, where you stand upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called the t’ gallant cross-trees. Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner feels about as cosy as he would standing on a bull’s horns. To be sure, in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of a watch-coat; but properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside of its fleshy tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move out of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of a house as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you. You cannot put a shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you make a convenient closet of your watch-coat.
对于一名南方捕鲸者来说，在长达三四年的航行中，正如经常发生的那样，你在桅杆顶度过的各种时间的总和将达到整整几个月。令人遗憾的是，你在整个自然生活中投入了如此多的一部分的地方，竟然缺乏任何接近舒适居住的东西，或者适合培养舒适的地方感觉的东西，例如床、吊床、灵车、岗哨、讲坛、马车或任何其他人们暂时隔离自己的小而舒适的装置。你最常见的栖息点是 t’ 勇敢桅杆的头部，在那里你站在两根平行的细木棍上（几乎是捕鲸人所特有的），称为 t’ 勇敢十字树。在这里，在海边翻来覆去，初学者感觉就像站在牛角上一样舒适。当然，在寒冷的天气里，你可以把你的房子以手表外套的形式带到高处；但严格来说，最厚的警服和赤身裸体的身体一样，也算不上是一座房子。因为灵魂被粘在它的肉质圣殿内，无法在其中自由活动，甚至无法离开它，否则就会冒着灭亡的巨大风险（就像一个无知的朝圣者在冬天穿越白雪皑皑的阿尔卑斯山）；因此，手表外套与其说是一座房子，不如说它只是一个信封，或者包裹着你的额外皮肤。你不能在你的身体里放一个架子或五斗柜，你也不能再为你的手表外套做一个方便的衣柜。

Concerning all this, it is much to be deplored that the mast-heads of a southern whale ship are unprovided with those enviable little tents or pulpits, called CROW’S-NESTS, in which the look-outs of a Greenland whaler are protected from the inclement weather of the frozen seas. In the fireside narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled ‘A Voyage among the Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally for the re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland;’ in this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented CROW’S-NEST of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet’s good craft. He called it the SLEET’S CROW’S-NEST, in honour of himself; he being the original inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous false delicacy, and holding that if we call our own children after our own names (we fathers being the original inventors and patentees), so likewise should we denominate after ourselves any other apparatus we may beget. In shape, the Sleet’s crow’s-nest is something like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above, however, where it is furnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale. Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you ascend into it through a little trap-hatch in the bottom. On the after side, or side next the stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker underneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats. In front is a leather rack, in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical conveniences. When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this crow’s-nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him (also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for you cannot successfully shoot at them from the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon them is a very different thing. Now, it was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does, all the little detailed conveniences of his crow’s-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many of these, and though he treats us to a very scientific account of his experiments in this crow’s-nest, with a small compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the errors resulting from what is called the ‘local attraction’ of all binnacle magnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the ship’s planks, and in the Glacier’s case, perhaps, to there having been so many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned ‘binnacle deviations,’ ‘azimuth compass observations,’ and ‘approximate errors,’ he knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed in those profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted occasionally towards that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely tucked in on one side of his crow’s nest, within easy reach of his hand. Though, upon the whole, I greatly admire and even love the brave, the honest, and learned Captain; yet I take it very ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle, seeing what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while with mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematics aloft there in that bird’s nest within three or four perches of the pole.
考虑到这一切，令人遗憾的是，南方捕鲸船的桅顶没有配备那些令人羡慕的小帐篷或讲坛，称为“鸦巢”，格陵兰捕鲸船的了望台可以在其中受到保护，免受恶劣天气的影响。冰冻海洋的天气。在斯利特船长的炉边叙述中，题为“冰山间的航行，寻找格陵兰鲸，顺便重新发现旧格陵兰岛失落的冰岛殖民地”；在这本令人钦佩的书中，所有桅杆的站立者——头脑中对当时最近发明的冰川鸦巢进行了迷人的旁白描述，这是斯利特船长的精湛工艺的名字。为了纪念他自己，他将其称为“斯利特鸦巢”。他是原始发明人和专利权人，没有任何可笑的虚假微妙之处，并认为如果我们用我们自己的名字来称呼我们自己的孩子（我们的父亲是原始发明人和专利权人），那么我们也应该以我们自己的名字命名任何其他装置我们可能会生育。从形状上看，斯利特的鸦巢有点像一个大的梯形或管子。然而，它的上方是敞开的，并配有可移动的侧屏，以便在强风中保持头部的上风位置。固定在桅杆的顶部，你可以通过底部的一个小活板舱口登上桅杆。在船的后侧，或者说靠近船尾的一侧，有一个舒适的座位，下面有一个储物柜，可存放雨伞、被子和外套。前面是一个皮革架，可放置您的扩音器、管子、望远镜和其他航海便利设施。 当斯利特船长亲自将桅杆头立在他的这个瞭望台上时，他告诉我们，他总是随身携带一支步枪（也固定在架子上），还有一个火药瓶和子弹，用于爆破远离那些出没于这些水域的流浪独角鲸或流浪的海洋独角兽；因为由于水的阻力，你无法从甲板上成功地射击它们，但击落它们却是完全不同的事情。现在，斯利特船长描述他的瞭望台的所有小细节和便利设施显然是出于热爱。但是，尽管他如此详细地阐述了其中的许多内容，尽管他向我们介绍了他在这个瞭望台上进行的实验的非常科学的说明，但他还是把一个小指南针放在那里，目的是抵消由所谓的“所有罗经柜磁铁的“局部吸引力”；这个错误可归因于船板中铁的水平邻近，而在冰川号的情况下，也许是因为她的船员中有太多崩溃的铁匠；我说，虽然船长在这里非常谨慎和科学，但是，尽管他学到了“罗盘偏差”、“方位角罗盘观测”和“近似误差”，他很清楚，斯利特船长，他并不是那么回事。他非常沉浸在那些深刻的磁力冥想中，以至于偶尔会被那个补充充足的小盒子所吸引，它很好地藏在他的鸦巢的一侧，触手可及。 不过，总的来说，我非常钦佩甚至喜爱这位勇敢、诚实、博学的船长；然而，我对他感到非常遗憾，他竟然完全忽视了那个箱子瓶子，因为他看到它一定是一个多么忠实的朋友和安慰者，而他却戴着手套，戴着头巾，在高处的鸟巢里研究数学。杆子的三或四个栖息处。

But if we Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as Captain Sleet and his Greenlandmen were; yet that disadvantage is greatly counter-balanced by the widely contrasting serenity of those seductive seas in which we South fishers mostly float. For one, I used to lounge up the rigging very leisurely, resting in the top to have a chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom I might find there; then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy leg over the top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures, and so at last mount to my ultimate destination.
但是，如果我们南方捕鲸者不像斯利特船长和他的格陵兰人那样舒适地居住在高处；然而，我们南方渔民大多漂浮在那些迷人的海洋中，对比鲜明的宁静，极大地抵消了这一缺点。其一，我常常非常悠闲地在索具上休息，在顶部休息，与 Queequeg 或任何我可能在那里找到的下班的人聊天；然后再上升一点，把懒惰的腿扔到顶帆帆桁上，初步观察一下水汪汪的牧场，最后登上我的最终目的地。

Let me make a clean breast of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but sorry guard. With the problem of the universe revolving in me, how could I—being left completely to myself at such a thought-engendering altitude—how could I but lightly hold my obligations to observe all whale-ships’ standing orders, ‘Keep your weather eye open, and sing out every time.’
让我在这里坦白说出来，并坦率地承认我保持了但遗憾的警惕。当宇宙的问题在我身上旋转时，在如此令人思考的高度，我怎么能完全独自一人——我怎么能不轻率地履行遵守所有捕鲸船的常规命令的义务，“保持你的天气眼睛”打开，每次都唱出来。

And let me in this place movingly admonish you, ye ship-owners of Nantucket! Beware of enlisting in your vigilant fisheries any lad with lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable meditativeness; and who offers to ship with the Phaedon instead of Bowditch in his head. Beware of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before they can be killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten wakes round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer. Nor are these monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, the whale-fishery furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded young men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking sentiment in tar and blubber. Childe Harold not unfrequently perches himself upon the mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and in moody phrase ejaculates:—
让我在这里动人地告诫你们，楠塔基特岛的船主们！小心不要让任何眉毛稀疏、眼睛凹陷的小伙子加入你的警惕渔业；沉思不合时宜；在他的脑海里，他提议与菲顿号一起航行，而不是与鲍迪奇号一起航行。我说，要当心这样的人；在杀死鲸鱼之前，必须先看到它们；这位深陷眼睛的年轻柏拉图主义者会拖着你环游世界十次，却永远不会让你的精子变得更丰富。这些警告也并非完全没有必要。如今，捕鲸业为许多浪漫、忧郁、心不在焉的年轻人提供了庇护所，他们厌恶尘世的烦恼，在焦油和鲸脂中寻找情感。柴尔德·哈罗德经常坐在某条倒霉、失望的捕鲸船的桅头上，用喜怒无常的措辞说道：

‘Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll! Ten thousand blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain.’
‘滚吧，你深邃而深蓝色的海洋，滚吧！一万个鲸脂猎人徒劳地扫过你。

Very often do the captains of such ships take those absent-minded young philosophers to task, upbraiding them with not feeling sufficient ‘interest’ in the voyage; half-hinting that they are so hopelessly lost to all honourable ambition, as that in their secret souls they would rather not see whales than otherwise. But all in vain; those young Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve? They have left their opera-glasses at home.
这些船的船长常常责备那些心不在焉的年轻哲学家，责备他们对航行没有足够的“兴趣”。半暗示着他们绝望地迷失在所有光荣的野心中，在他们秘密的灵魂中，他们宁愿看不到鲸鱼，也不愿看到鲸鱼。但一切都是徒劳；那些年轻的柏拉图主义者认为他们的愿景是不完美的。他们目光短浅；那么，使视觉神经紧张有什么用呢？他们把望远镜落在家里了。

‘Why, thou monkey,’ said a harpooneer to one of these lads, ‘we’ve been cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whale yet. Whales are scarce as hen’s teeth whenever thou art up here.’ Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of vacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending cadence of waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity; takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep, blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every strange, half-seen, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him; every dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some undiscernible form, seems to him the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by continually flitting through it. In this enchanted mood, thy spirit ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time and space; like Crammer’s sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a part of every shore the round globe over.
“哎呀，你这只猴子，”一个标枪手对其中一个小伙子说，“我们已经辛苦航行了三年了，你却还没有养过一头鲸鱼。”每当你来到这里时，鲸鱼都像母鸡的牙齿一样稀缺。或者也许在遥远的地平线上有一群群的鱼群；然而，这个心不在焉的年轻人却被波涛与思想的节奏混杂在一起，陷入鸦片般的无精打采、空洞、无意识的遐想中，最终失去了自己的身份；以脚下神秘的海洋为那深邃、蓝色、无底的灵魂的可见形象，弥漫在人类和自然中；以及所有他无法捕捉到的奇怪的、半可见的、滑行的、美丽的东西；在他看来，每一个隐约发现的、难以辨认的形状的上升鳍都似乎是那些难以捉摸的思想的化身，只有不断地掠过灵魂才能满足灵魂。在这种迷人的心情中，你的精神消退到它来的地方；通过时间和空间扩散；就像克莱默撒下的泛神论灰烬一样，最终成为地球上每一个海岸的一部分。

There is no life in thee, now, except that rocking life imparted by a gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed from the sea; by the sea, from the inscrutable tides of God. But while this sleep, this dream is on ye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold at all; and your identity comes back in horror. Over Descartian vortices you hover. And perhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one half-throttled shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer sea, no more to rise for ever. Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
现在你身上已经没有生命了，除了一艘轻轻摇晃的船所赋予的摇晃的生命；由她从大海借来的；海边，来自上帝那难以捉摸的潮汐。但是当你在睡觉、做梦的时候，移动你的脚或手一英寸；完全松开你的手；你的身份又惊恐地回来了。你盘旋在笛卡尔漩涡上。也许，在中午，在最晴朗的天气里，伴随着一声半抑制的尖叫，你穿过透明的空气，落入夏日的大海，永远不再升起。你们泛神论者，请好好注意！

Chapter 36
第36章

The Quarter-Deck.
四分之一甲板。

(ENTER AHAB: THEN, ALL)
（亚哈上：那么，全部）

It was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morning shortly after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the cabin-gangway to the deck. There most sea-captains usually walk at that hour, as country gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the garden.
烟斗事件发生后不久，一天早上，早餐后不久，亚哈按照他的习惯，登上船舱舷梯，来到甲板上。大多数船长通常在这个时间散步，就像乡村绅士在吃完同一顿饭后，会在花园里转几圈。

Soon his steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old rounds, upon planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over dented, like geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk. Did you fixedly gaze, too, upon that ribbed and dented brow; there also, you would see still stranger foot-prints—the foot-prints of his one unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.
很快，他那稳健、象牙色的步伐就被听见了，他在木板上来回踱着他的旧轮子，木板对他的脚步是如此熟悉，以至于它们都像地质石头一样凹凸不平，带有他行走的特殊痕迹。你是否也注视着那双肋骨凹陷的额头？在那里，你还会看到更奇怪的脚印——他那不眠不休、不断踱步的思想的脚印。

But on the occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as his nervous step that morning left a deeper mark. And, so full of his thought was Ahab, that at every uniform turn that he made, now at the main-mast and now at the binnacle, you could almost see that thought turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he paced; so completely possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the inward mould of every outer movement.
但在这个场合，那些凹痕看起来更深，尽管他那天早上紧张的脚步留下了更深的印记。而且，亚哈的思想如此丰富，以至于他每次转弯时，时而在主桅杆处，时而在罗经柜处，你几乎可以看到他转身时思想在他身上转动，当他转动时你几乎可以看到他的思想在他身上转动。节奏；事实上，他是如此完全地占有他，以至于这似乎是每一个外在动作的内在模子。

‘D’ye mark him, Flask?’ whispered Stubb; ‘the chick that’s in him pecks the shell. ‘Twill soon be out.’
“你标记他了吗，弗拉斯克？”斯塔布低声说道。 ‘他体内的小鸡正在啄壳。 “斜纹布很快就会上市。”

The hours wore on;—Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the deck, with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.
时间一分一秒过去了；——亚哈现在关在他的小屋里；很快，他在甲板上踱步，脸上带着同样强烈的目标偏执。

It drew near the close of day. Suddenly he came to a halt by the bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into the auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck to send everybody aft.
天色已近黄昏。突然，他在舷墙边停了下来，将他的骨腿插入那里的螺旋孔中，一只手抓住了一块裹尸布，他命令斯塔巴克把所有人都送到船尾。

‘Sir!’ said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or never given on ship-board except in some extraordinary case.
“长官！”大副说道，他对船上很少或从未下达的命令感到惊讶，除非是在某些特殊情况下。

‘Send everybody aft,’ repeated Ahab. ‘Mast-heads, there! come down!’
“让大家都到船尾去，”亚哈重复道。 “桅杆头，那里！坠落！'

When the entire ship’s company were assembled, and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces, were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike the weather horizon when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidly glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting his eyes among the crew, started from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh him resumed his heavy turns upon the deck. With bent head and half-slouched hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering among the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat. But this did not last long. Vehemently pausing, he cried:—
当全船的人都聚集在一起时，他们都带着好奇但并非完全不担心的表情注视着他，因为他看上去就像暴风雨即将来临时的地平线一样，亚哈迅速扫视了舷墙，然后眨了眨眼睛在船员中，从他的立场出发；他又继续在甲板上沉重地转弯，仿佛附近没有一个人。他低着头，戴着半耷拉着的帽子，继续踱步，全然不顾男人们惊奇的窃窃私语。直到斯塔布小心翼翼地对弗拉斯克低声说，亚哈一定是为了见证这一平凡的壮举才把他们叫到那里的。但这并没有持续多久。他猛地停了下来，大声喊道：

‘What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?’
“伙计们，当你们看到鲸鱼时，你们会怎么做？”

‘Sing out for him!’ was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed voices.
“为他高声歌唱！”二十个粗哑的声音冲动地反驳道。

‘Good!’ cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the hearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically thrown them.
“好！”亚哈喊道，语气里带着狂野的赞许。观察他出乎意料的问题让他们如此着迷的热情。

‘And what do ye next, men?’
“接下来你们要做什么，伙计们？”

‘Lower away, and after him!’
“下去，跟着他！”

‘And what tune is it ye pull to, men?’
“各位，你们拉的是什么曲子？”

‘A dead whale or a stove boat!’
“死鲸鱼或者火炉船！”

More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew the countenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began to gaze curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that they themselves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions.
每次喊叫，老人的表情就变得越来越奇怪、强烈、高兴和赞许。水手们开始好奇地互相凝视，似乎很惊讶他们自己怎么会对这些看似毫无目的的问题变得如此兴奋。

But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in his pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud, and tightly, almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus:—
但是，他们又全都热切起来，亚哈此时在他的枢轴孔中半旋转，一只手高高地伸向裹尸布，紧紧地、几乎痉挛地抓住它，对他们这样说道：

‘All ye mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale. Look ye! d’ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?’—holding up a broad bright coin to the sun—‘it is a sixteen dollar piece, men. D’ye see it? Mr. Starbuck, hand me yon top-maul.’
“你们所有的桅杆长以前都听过我对白鲸发出的命令。你看！你看到这枚西班牙盎司黄金了吗？”——把一枚又宽又亮的硬币举到太阳下——“这是一枚十六美元的硬币，伙计们。你看到了吗？斯塔巴克先生，把顶槌递给我。

While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket, as if to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile lowly humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him.
大副拿起锤子的时候，亚哈一言不发，慢慢地将金块在夹克裙摆上摩擦，似乎是为了增加它的光泽，同时也不说话，低声哼着歌，发出一种奇怪的声音。声音低沉而难以言喻，仿佛他体内的活力之轮发出机械般的嗡嗡声。

Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast with the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the other, and with a high raised voice exclaiming: ‘Whosoever of ye raises me a white-headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; whosoever of ye raises me that white-headed whale, with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke—look ye, whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale, he shall have this gold ounce, my boys!’
他接过斯塔巴克送来的顶槌，一手举起锤子，一手举起金子，向主桅走去，高声喊道：“你们谁给我举起一头白头鲸，皱皱的额头和弯曲的下巴；你们谁养育了我那条右舷尾翼上扎了三个洞的白头鲸——你们看，谁养育了我那条白鲸，我的孩子们，谁就将拥有这金盎司！

‘Huzza! huzza!’ cried the seamen, as with swinging tarpaulins they hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.
‘呼扎！ “哈扎！”海员们喊道，他们挥舞着防水布，欢呼着把金子钉在桅杆上的举动。

‘It’s a white whale, I say,’ resumed Ahab, as he threw down the topmaul: ‘a white whale. Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.’
“我说，这是一条白鲸，”亚哈一边扔下顶槌，一边继续说道：“一条白鲸。”伙计们，你们要睁大眼睛寻找他；仔细寻找白水；如果你只看到一个泡沫，就大声喊出来。

All this while Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even more intense interest and surprise than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was separately touched by some specific recollection.
一直以来，塔什特戈、达古和奎奎格都以比其他人更强烈的兴趣和惊讶的目光看着，一提到皱起的额头和弯曲的下巴，他们就惊呆了，仿佛每个人都分别被某种特定的回忆触动了。

‘Captain Ahab,’ said Tashtego, ‘that white whale must be the same that some call Moby Dick.’
“亚哈船长，”塔什特戈说，“那头白鲸肯定就是某些人所说的白鲸。”

‘Moby Dick?’ shouted Ahab. ‘Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?’
“莫比迪克？”亚哈喊道。 “那么你认识白鲸吗，塔什？”

‘Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?’ said the Gay-Header deliberately.
“先生，在倒下之前，他是不是有点好奇地扇动尾巴？”同性恋头目故意说道。

‘And has he a curious spout, too,’ said Daggoo, ‘very bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?’
“他也有一个奇怪的喷口吗？”达古说，“非常浓密，即使对于帕尔玛塞蒂来说也是如此，而且速度非常快，亚哈船长？”

‘And he have one, two, three—oh! good many iron in him hide, too, Captain,’ cried Queequeg disjointedly, ‘all twiske-tee be-twisk, like him—him—‘ faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and round as though uncorking a bottle—‘like him—him—’
“他有一个，两个，三个——哦！他身上也隐藏着很多铁，船长，”奎魁格断断续续地喊道，“都是蠢蠢欲动的人，就像他——他——”他支支吾吾地说不出一个词，他的手一圈又一圈地拧着，就像打开瓶子的塞子一样—— “像他——他——”

‘Corkscrew!’ cried Ahab, ‘aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one, like a whole shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails like a split jib in a squall. Death and devils! men, it is Moby Dick ye have seen—Moby Dick—Moby Dick!’
“开瓶器！”亚哈喊道，“是的，魁魁格，鱼叉在他身上扭曲扭曲；是的，达古，他的喷口很大，就像一整团小麦，白得像我们一年一度剪羊毛后的楠塔基特羊毛堆；是的，塔什特戈，他就像暴风雨中裂开的三角帆一样扇形尾巴。死亡与恶魔！伙计们，你们看到的就是莫比·迪克——莫比·迪克——莫比·迪克！”

‘Captain Ahab,’ said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. ‘Captain Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick—but it was not Moby Dick that took off thy leg?’
“亚哈船长，”斯塔巴克说道，到目前为止，他和斯塔布和弗拉斯克一起越来越惊讶地看着他的上司，但最后似乎突然想到了一个想法，这在某种程度上解释了所有的奇迹。 “亚哈船长，我听说过莫比迪克——但不是莫比迪克砍掉了你的腿？”

‘Who told thee that?’ cried Ahab; then pausing, ‘Aye, Starbuck; aye, my hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now. Aye, aye,’ he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose; ‘Aye, aye! it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a poor pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!’ Then tossing both arms, with measureless imprecations he shouted out: ‘Aye, aye! and I’ll chase him round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, and round perdition’s flames before I give him up. And this is what ye have shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out. What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do look brave.’
“谁告诉你的？”亚哈喊道。然后停顿了一下，“是的，星巴克；”是的，我的心在四面八方；是莫比·迪克让我崩溃了。莫比迪克把我带到了我现在所站的这个死树桩上。是啊，是啊，”他用一种可怕的、响亮的、动物般的抽泣声喊道，就像一头伤心欲绝的驼鹿那样。 '好的好的！是那头该死的白鲸把我夷为平地；让我永远变成了一个可怜的笨蛋！”然后他甩动双臂，用无边的咒骂​​喊道：“哎呀，哎呀！我会追着他绕过好望角、绕过合恩角、绕过挪威大漩涡、绕过毁灭之火，然后再放弃他。这就是你们发船的目的，伙计们！追赶那头白鲸，追遍陆地的两岸，追遍地球的四面八方，直到它喷出黑血，把鱼鳍滚出来。你们怎么说，伙计们，你们现在愿意把手放在上面吗？我认为你们看起来确实很勇敢。

‘Aye, aye!’ shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the excited old man: ‘A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for Moby Dick!’
“是啊，是啊！”标枪手和水手们喊道，跑到兴奋的老人身边：“目光敏锐，发现了白鲸；给莫比·迪克的一把锋利的长矛！

‘God bless ye,’ he seemed to half sob and half shout. ‘God bless ye, men. Steward! go draw the great measure of grog. But what’s this long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale? art not game for Moby Dick?’
“上帝保佑你们，”他似乎半抽泣半喊叫。 ‘上帝保佑你们，伙计们。管家！去喝一杯烈酒吧。但是，斯塔巴克先生，你这张脸是怎么回事？你不去追白鲸吗？ 《莫比迪克》的艺术不是游戏？

‘I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow; but I came here to hunt whales, not my commander’s vengeance. How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab? it will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market.’
“我很喜欢他的歪下巴，也喜欢死神的下巴，亚哈船长，如果这对我们接下来的事情有好处的话；但我来这里是为了捕鲸，而不是为我的指挥官报仇。亚哈船长，即使你得到了，你的复仇还能给你多少桶？在我们的楠塔基特市场上它不会卖多少钱。

‘Nantucket market! Hoot! But come closer, Starbuck; thou requirest a little lower layer. If money’s to be the measurer, man, and the accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by girdling it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let me tell thee, that my vengeance will fetch a great premium HERE!’
‘楠塔基特市场！叱！但是靠近一点，星巴克；你需要一个低一点的层。如果用金钱来衡量的话，会计师们就已经用几尼将地球围起来，每三分之一英寸的一比一来计算他们的大账房了。那么，让我告诉你，我的复仇会在这里带来巨大的回报！

‘He smites his chest,’ whispered Stubb, ‘what’s that for? methinks it rings most vast, but hollow.’
“他拍打自己的胸口，”斯塔布低声说道，“这是为什么？我认为它听起来最广阔，但空洞。

‘Vengeance on a dumb brute!’ cried Starbuck, ‘that simply smote thee from blindest instinct! Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous.’
“向一个愚蠢的畜生报仇！”斯塔巴克喊道，“这只会让你失去最盲目的本能！”疯狂！亚哈船长，对一件愚蠢的事情感到愤怒似乎是亵渎神明的。

‘Hark ye yet again—the little lower layer. All visible objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks. But in each event—in the living act, the undoubted deed—there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man will strike, strike through the mask! How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think there’s naught beyond. But ‘tis enough. He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it. That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent, or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him. Talk not to me of blasphemy, man; I’d strike the sun if it insulted me. For could the sun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations. But not my master, man, is even that fair play. Who’s over me? Truth hath no confines. Take off thine eye! more intolerable than fiends’ glarings is a doltish stare! So, so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow. But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself. There are men from whom warm words are small indignity. I meant not to incense thee. Let it go. Look! see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn—living, breathing pictures painted by the sun. The Pagan leopards—the unrecking and unworshipping things, that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel! The crew, man, the crew! Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this matter of the whale? See Stubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! he snorts to think of it. Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost sapling cannot, Starbuck! And what is it? Reckon it. ‘Tis but to help strike a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? From this one poor hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone? Ah! constrainings seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee! Speak, but speak!—Aye, aye! thy silence, then, THAT voices thee. (ASIDE) Something shot from my dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs. Starbuck now is mine; cannot oppose me now, without rebellion.’
“再听一遍——下层的小层。所有可见的物体，伙计，都不过是纸板面具。但在每一个事件中——在活生生的行为中，毫无疑问的行为中——那里，一些未知但仍然合理的事物从不合理的面具后面展现了它的特征。如果人类要攻击，就击穿面具吧！囚犯除了冲破墙壁之外，如何才能到达外面呢？对我来说，白鲸就是那堵墙，被推到我身边。有时我想，除此之外什么也没有。但这已经足够了。他给我分配任务；他把我堆起来；我在他身上看到了令人震惊的力量，其中充满了难以捉摸的恶意。我最讨厌的是那种难以捉摸的东西；做白鲸代理人，或者做白鲸校长，我会把仇恨加在他身上。别跟我说亵渎的话，伙计；如果太阳侮辱了我，我就会击中它。因为太阳能做到这一点，那么我也能做到另一件事；因为这里一直存在着一种公平竞争，嫉妒主宰着所有的创造。但我的主人，伙计，甚至连公平竞争都不是。谁在我之上？真理没有界限。把你的眼睛摘下来！比恶魔的瞪视更难以忍受的是愚蠢的凝视！一般般;你变红变苍白；我的热度已将你融化，散发出愤怒的光芒。但是，星巴克，你看，在热火中所说的话，那件事本身就没有说出来。对有些人来说，温暖的话语只是小小的侮辱。我本来不想激怒你。放手吧。看！看看那边土耳其人的脸颊上有斑点的黄褐色——太阳画下的活生生的、会呼吸的图画。异教徒的豹子——一种不顾后果、不崇拜的生物；并寻求，却没有为他们所感受到的炎热生活给出任何理由！船员们，伙计们，船员们！在鲸鱼的问题上，他们不是与亚哈同心合意吗？见斯塔布！他笑了！看那边的奇莲！想到这，他不禁哼了一声。 在飓风中站起来，你的一棵树苗无法站起来，星巴克！还有，这是什么？算一下。这不过是为了帮助敲击鳍；对于星巴克来说，这并不是什么了不起的壮举。还有什么？那么，在这一次糟糕的狩猎中，当每个前桅手都握紧了磨刀石时，楠塔基特岛最好的长矛，他肯定不会退缩吗？啊!约束抓住了你；我懂了！巨浪将你举起！说吧，但是说吧！——是啊是啊！那么，你的沉默就是你的声音。 （旁白）有什么东西从我扩张的鼻孔中射出，他已经把它吸入肺部了。星巴克现在是我的了；现在不能不反抗地反对我。’

‘God keep me!—keep us all!’ murmured Starbuck, lowly.
“上帝保佑我！保佑我们所有人！”斯塔巴克低声说道。

But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from the hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment their hearts sank in. For again Starbuck’s downcast eyes lighted up with the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; the winds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as before. Ah, ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come? But rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows! Yet not so much predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within. For with little external to constrain us, the innermost necessities in our being, these still drive us on.
但亚哈因大副的神奇默许而感到高兴，并没有听到他不祥的祈求。也没有来自货舱的低沉笑声；也没有风在绳索中预示的振动；也没有风帆在桅杆上空荡荡的拍打声，仿佛有那么一刻，他们的心沉了下去。 斯塔巴克低垂的眼睛再次因生命的顽强而闪闪发光；地下的笑声渐渐消失了。风继续吹；帆已满；船像以前一样颠簸摇晃。啊，你们这些劝告和警告！既然来了，为什么不留下来呢？你们这些影子，与其说是警告，不如说是预言！然而，与其说是来自外部的预测，不如说是对上述事情的内部验证。因为几乎没有什么外在因素可以约束我们，但我们内心最深处的需要仍然驱使着我们前进。

‘The measure! the measure!’ cried Ahab.
'的措施！ “措施！”亚哈喊道。

Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he ordered them to produce their weapons. Then ranging them before him near the capstan, with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates stood at his side with their lances, and the rest of the ship’s company formed a circle round the group; he stood for an instant searchingly eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his, as the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of their leader, ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of the bison; but, alas! only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
他接过装满的锡镴，转向标枪手，命令他们拿出武器。然后，他们手里拿着鱼叉，在绞盘附近排列着他们，而他的三个副手拿着长矛站在他身边，船上的其他人围着这群人围成一圈；他站了一会儿，目光锐利地打量着他的每一个船员。但那双狂野的眼睛与他的目光相遇，就像草原狼布满血丝的眼睛与他们的首领目光相遇一样，在他追随野牛的踪迹冲向他们的头之前；可惜！却落入了印第安人隐藏的网罗之中。

‘Drink and pass!’ he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the nearest seaman. ‘The crew alone now drink. Round with it, round! Short draughts—long swallows, men; ‘tis hot as Satan’s hoof. So, so; it goes round excellently. It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the serpent-snapping eye. Well done; almost drained. That way it went, this way it comes. Hand it me—here’s a hollow! Men, ye seem the years; so brimming life is gulped and gone. Steward, refill!
“喝完就过去！”他喊道，把装满水的沉重酒壶递给最近的水手。 “现在只有船员们在喝酒。圆圆的，圆圆的！短饮——长饮，伙计们；就像撒旦的蹄子一样热。一般般;它运转得很好。它在ye中盘旋；叉开蛇眼。做得好;几乎耗尽。往事是这样，来的也是这样。递给我——这里有一个空洞！男人们，你们似乎是岁月；于是，充沛的生命就被吞没了。管家，补充！

‘Attend now, my braves. I have mustered ye all round this capstan; and ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers, stand there with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may in some sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me. O men, you will yet see that—Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner. Hand it me. Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, were’t not thou St. Vitus’ imp—away, thou ague!
‘现在参加吧，我的勇士们。我已经把你们召集到了这个绞盘周围；你们伙伴们，用你们的长矛从侧面攻击我；你们这些标枪手，拿着铁杆站在那里；你们，勇敢的水手们，请叫我进来，以便我能以某种方式复兴我的渔民父亲的崇高习俗。哦，人们，你们将会看到——哈！少年，回来了吗？坏钱不会来得更快。递给我。为什么，现在，这个白镴又满溢了，你不是圣维特的小鬼吗——走开，你这个疟疾！

‘Advance, ye mates! Cross your lances full before me. Well done! Let me touch the axis.’ So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing, suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask. It seemed as though, by some nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the same fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic life. The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect. Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of Starbuck fell downright.
‘前进吧，伙伴们！将你的长矛完全交叉在我面前。做得好！让我摸一下轴。”说着，他伸出手臂，抓住了三个水平仪，在其交叉的中心放射出长矛；当这样做的时候，他们突然紧张地抽搐起来。与此同时，他的目光从星巴克转向斯塔布。从 Stubb 到 Flask。似乎，出于某种无名的内心意志，他很想将他自己磁力生命的莱顿瓶中积累的同样炽热的情感震撼到他们身上。三个伙伴在他坚强、持久和神秘的外表面前感到畏缩。斯塔布和弗拉斯克扭头看向他。星巴克诚实的眼睛彻底崩溃了。

‘In vain!’ cried Ahab; ‘but, maybe, ‘tis well. For did ye three but once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, THAT had perhaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye dead. Perchance ye need it not. Down lances! And now, ye mates, I do appoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there—yon three most honourable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdain the task? What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension, THAT shall bend ye to it. I do not order ye; ye will it. Cut your seizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!’
“徒劳！”亚哈喊道。 “但是，也许，这很好。”因为你们三个人一旦受到了全力的冲击，然后我自己的电动东西，那可能已经从我身上消失了。或许，它也会让你们丧命。也许你不需要它。放下长矛！现在，伙计们，我任命三位酒政为我在那里的三位异教亲属——三位最可敬的绅士和贵族，我勇敢的标枪手。鄙视任务？当伟大的教皇用他的头饰当水壶给乞丐洗脚时，会发生什么？哦，我可爱的红衣主教们！你自己的屈尊俯就，你就会屈服于它。我不命令你们；你会的。砍掉你的捕获物并拉出杆子，你们这些鱼叉手！”

Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the detached iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs up, before him.
三个标枪手默默地服从命令，现在他们的鱼叉上的铁部分已脱落，约三英尺长，倒刺向上，站在他面前。

‘Stab me not with that keen steel! Cant them; cant them over! know ye not the goblet end? Turn up the socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers, advance. The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!’ Forthwith, slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon sockets with the fiery waters from the pewter.
‘别用那锋利的钢刺我！他们不能吗？他们不能过去吗！你们不知道高脚杯的末端吗？打开插座！一般般;现在，酒政们，请前进。熨斗！拿走这些;抓住它们，让我注满！”随即，他慢慢地从一名军官走到另一名军官，用锡镴中的炽热水充满了鱼叉插口。

‘Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend the murderous chalices! Bestow them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. Ha! Starbuck! but the deed is done! Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon it. Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man the deathful whaleboat’s bow—Death to Moby Dick! God hunt us all, if we do not hunt Moby Dick to his death!’ The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted; and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss. Starbuck paled, and turned, and shivered. Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.
‘现在，三对三，你们站着。赞扬凶残的圣杯！赐予他们吧，你们现在已经成为这个不解之缘的联盟的成员了。哈！星巴克！但事情已经完成了！批准太阳现在正等待坐在它上面。喝吧，你们这些标枪手！喝酒发誓，你们这些操纵致命捕鲸船船头的人——杀了莫比·迪克！如果我们不追杀莫比·迪克，上帝就会追捕我们所有人！”长长的、带刺的钢高脚杯被举起；伴随着对白鲸的呼喊和咒骂，鬼魂们同时发出嘶嘶声，被吞下去。斯塔巴克脸色苍白，转过身来，浑身发抖。最后，补充的白镴再次在疯狂的船员中流传。当他向他们挥动空着的那只手时，他们就散开了。亚哈回到他的小屋里。

Chapter 37
第37章

Sunset.
日落。

THE CABIN; BY THE STERN WINDOWS; AHAB SITTING ALONE, AND GAZING OUT.
机舱;在船尾的窗户旁；亚哈独自坐着，向外眺望。

I leave a white and turbid wake; pale waters, paler cheeks, where’er I sail. The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let them; but first I pass.
我留下白色浑浊的痕迹；苍白的海水，苍白的脸颊，无论我航行到哪里。嫉妒的巨浪侧身涌来，淹没了我的足迹；让他们;但首先我通过了。

Yonder, by ever-brimming goblet’s rim, the warm waves blush like wine. The gold brow plumbs the blue. The diver sun—slow dived from noon—goes down; my soul mounts up! she wearies with her endless hill. Is, then, the crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy. Yet is it bright with many a gem; I the wearer, see not its far flashings; but darkly feel that I wear that, that dazzlingly confounds. ‘Tis iron—that I know—not gold. ‘Tis split, too—that I feel; the jagged edge galls me so, my brain seems to beat against the solid metal; aye, steel skull, mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight!
那边，在永远满溢的高脚杯边缘，温暖的波浪像酒一样红润。金色的眉毛垂直于蓝色。太阳从正午慢慢落下，落下；我的灵魂升腾起来！她厌倦了无尽的山丘。那么，我戴的王冠是否太重了呢？这就是伦巴第的铁王冠。然而它却因众多宝石而璀璨夺目；我作为佩戴者，看不到它远处的闪烁；但暗暗地觉得我穿那个，那令人眼花缭乱。据我所知，这是铁，不是金。 “我也感觉到了，这也是分裂的；锯齿状的边缘让我感到很痛，我的大脑似乎在与坚固的金属撞击；是的，钢头骨，我的；那种在最烧脑的战斗中不需要头盔的类型！

Dry heat upon my brow? Oh! time was, when as the sunrise nobly spurred me, so the sunset soothed. No more. This lovely light, it lights not me; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne’er enjoy. Gifted with the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power; damned, most subtly and most malignantly! damned in the midst of Paradise! Good night—good night! (WAVING HIS HAND, HE MOVES FROM THE WINDOW.)
我额头干热？哦！曾经，当日出高贵地激励着我时，日落也同样舒缓了我。不再。这可爱的光，照亮的不是我；所有的可爱对我来说都是痛苦，因为我无法享受。天生有高知，缺乏低等享受力；该死的，最巧妙、最恶毒的！在天堂之中被诅咒！晚安晚安！ （挥挥手，从窗口走开。）

‘Twas not so hard a task. I thought to find one stubborn, at the least; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and they revolve. Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all stand before me; and I their match. Oh, hard! that to fire others, the match itself must needs be wasting! What I’ve dared, I’ve willed; and what I’ve willed, I’ll do! They think me mad—Starbuck does; but I’m demoniac, I am madness maddened! That wild madness that’s only calm to comprehend itself! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered; and—Aye! I lost this leg. I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer. Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one. That’s more than ye, ye great gods, ever were. I laugh and hoot at ye, ye cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes! I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies—Take some one of your own size; don’t pommel ME! No, ye’ve knocked me down, and I am up again; but YE have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags! I have no long gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab’s compliments to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me. Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye swerve yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run. Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under torrents’ beds, unerringly I rush! Naught’s an obstacle, naught’s an angle to the iron way!
“这并不是一项艰巨的任务。我想至少要找到一个固执的人；但我的一个齿轮圈适合它们所有的各种轮子，并且它们旋转。或者，如果你愿意的话，它们就像许多粉状的蚂蚁山一样，都矗立在我面前；我和他们是对手。哦，很难！要解雇别人，火柴本身就必须浪费！我敢做的事，我都愿意做；我所愿意的，我就会去做！他们认为我疯了——星巴克认为我疯了；但我是恶魔，我是疯子！那种狂野的疯狂只有冷静才能领悟！预言是我会被肢解；还有——啊！我失去了这条腿。我现在预言我将肢解我的肢解者。那么，现在，成为先知和实现者吧。这比你们，你们伟大的神，曾经有过的更多。我嘲笑你们，嘲笑你们，你们板球运动员，你们拳击手，你们聋哑的伯克和瞎了眼的本迪戈！我不会像小学生对恶霸那样说——拿一个和你一样大小的人；别打我！不，你们把我打倒了，我又站起来了；但你们已经逃跑并躲了起来。从你的棉布袋后面出来吧！我没有长枪可以打到你们。来吧，亚哈向你们致意；过来看看你们能不能让我转向。给我拐弯？你们不能改变我的方向，否则你们就会改变自己的方向！男人有你在那里。给我拐弯？通向我既定目标的道路铺有铁轨，我的灵魂在铁轨上奔跑。越过寂静的峡谷，穿过深山的中心，在激流的河床下，我毫无疑问地冲锋！没有什么是障碍，没有什么是铁道的角度！

Chapter 38
第38章

Dusk.
黄昏。

BY THE MAINMAST; STARBUCK LEANING AGAINST IT.
由主桅；星巴克反对它。

My soul is more than matched; she’s overmanned; and by a madman! Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field! But he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! I think I see his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I, nill I, the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have no knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who’s over him, he cries;—aye, he would be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below! Oh! I plainly see my miserable office,—to obey, rebelling; and worse yet, to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woe would shrivel me up, had I it. Yet is there hope. Time and tide flow wide. The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the small gold-fish has its glassy globe. His heaven-insulting purpose, God may wedge aside. I would up heart, were it not like lead. But my whole clock’s run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to lift again.
我的灵魂非常匹配；她人太多了；是一个疯子所为！难以忍受的刺痛，理智应该在这样的战场上拿起武器！但他却深入我的内心，把我所有的理智都炸掉了！我想我看到了他不虔诚的结局；但我觉得我必须帮助他。我会吗，我不会吗，不可言喻的东西将我与他联系在一起；用缆绳拖我，我没有刀可以剪。可怕的老头！谁在他之上，他喊道；——是的，他将成为以上所有人的民主主义者；瞧，他是如何在下面称王称霸的！哦！我清楚地看到了我悲惨的职责——服从，叛逆；更糟糕的是，带着怜悯去憎恨！因为在他的眼里，我读到了某种可怕的灾难，如果我这么做的话，会让我枯萎。但还有希望。时间和潮水宽阔。令人讨厌的鲸鱼有圆形的水世界可供游泳，就像小金鱼有玻璃球一样。上帝可能会阻止他侮辱上天的目的。如果它不像铅，我会很高兴。但我的整个时钟已经耗尽；我的心是主宰一切的重担，我再也没有钥匙可以举起。

[A BURST OF REVELRY FROM THE FORECASTLE.]
[预报中爆发出一阵狂欢。]

Oh, God! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human mothers in them! Whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea. The white whale is their demigorgon. Hark! the infernal orgies! that revelry is forward! mark the unfaltering silence aft! Methinks it pictures life. Foremost through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay, embattled, bantering bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where he broods within his sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the wake, and further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings. The long howl thrills me through! Peace! ye revellers, and set the watch! Oh, life! ‘tis in an hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge,—as wild, untutored things are forced to feed—Oh, life! ‘tis now that I do feel the latent horror in thee! but ‘tis not me! that horror’s out of me! and with the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim, phantom futures! Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences!
天啊！和一群异教徒的船员一起航行，他们身上有一点人类母亲的味道！在鲨鱼海的某个地方出生。白鲸是他们的半戈尔贡。听着！地狱般的狂欢！狂欢即将来临！留意船尾那坚定不移的寂静！我认为它描绘了生活。首先，穿过波光粼粼的大海，欢快、严阵以待、戏谑的船头射出，但只是把黑暗的亚哈拖在后面，他在船尾的小屋里沉思，小屋建在死水的尾流上，更远的地方，被狼般的汩汩声猎杀。 。长长的嚎叫让我兴奋不已！和平！你们这些狂欢者们，把手表放好！哦，生活！在这样的时刻，灵魂被击垮，却坚持知识，——就像野生的、未经训练的东西被迫喂养——哦，生活！现在我确实感受到了你身上潜在的恐惧！但这不是我！我已经不再害怕了！带着我内心柔软的人性，我将尝试与你们，你们这些可怕的，幻影的未来作斗争！站在我身边，拥抱我，束缚我，你们这些受祝福的影响力！

Chapter 19
第19章

First Night Watch.
第一次守夜。

Fore-Top.
前顶。

(STUBB SOLUS, AND MENDING A BRACE.)
（斯图布·索鲁斯，正在修补支架。）

Ha! ha! ha! ha! hem! clear my throat!—I’ve been thinking over it ever since, and that ha, ha’s the final consequence. Why so? Because a laugh’s the wisest, easiest answer to all that’s queer; and come what will, one comfort’s always left—that unfailing comfort is, it’s all predestinated. I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt. Be sure the old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had the gift, might readily have prophesied it—for when I clapped my eye upon his skull I saw it. Well, Stubb, WISE Stubb—that’s my title—well, Stubb, what of it, Stubb? Here’s a carcase. I know not all that may be coming, but be it what it will, I’ll go to it laughing. Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny. Fa, la! lirra, skirra! What’s my juicy little pear at home doing now? Crying its eyes out?—Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate’s pennant, and so am I—fa, la! lirra, skirra! Oh—
哈！哈！哈！哈！哼！清清嗓子！——从那时起我就一直在想，哈哈哈这就是最终的结果。为什么这样？因为笑是对所有奇怪的事情最明智、最简单的回答；无论发生什么，总会留下一种安慰——那永远的安慰就是，这一切都是命中注定的。我并没有听到他与星巴克的全部谈话。但在我可怜的眼睛看来，星巴克看起来就像我那天晚上所感受到的那样。确保老大亨也把他治好了。我扭动了一下它，我就知道了；如果我有这种天赋，我可能会很容易地预言它——因为当我把眼睛放在他的头骨上时，我看到了它。好吧，斯塔布，明智的斯塔布——这是我的头衔——好吧，斯塔布，那又怎么样，斯塔布？这是一具尸体。我不知道接下来会发生什么，但无论发生什么，我都会笑着面对。你所有的恐怖之中都潜藏着如此滑稽的斜视！我觉得好笑。发啦！里拉，斯基拉！我家里多汁的小梨现在在做什么呢？哭得眼睛都哭出来了？——我敢说，为最后到达的标枪手举办一场派对，他们像护卫舰的三角旗一样快乐，我也是——fa，la！里拉，斯基拉！哦-

We’ll drink to-night with hearts as light,
今晚我们将心如光明地畅饮，

To love, as gay and fleeting
去爱，快乐又转瞬即逝

As bubbles that swim, on the beaker’s brim,
当气泡在烧杯边缘游动时，

And break on the lips while meeting.
并在见面时打破嘴唇。

A brave stave that—who calls? Mr. Starbuck? Aye, aye, sir—(ASIDE) he’s my superior, he has his too, if I’m not mistaken.—Aye, aye, sir, just through with this job—coming.
一根勇敢的木棍——谁在召唤？星巴克先生？是的，是的，先生——（旁白）他是我的上司，如果我没记错的话，他也有他的上司。——是的，是的，先生，刚刚完成这项工作——来了。

Chapter 20
第20章

Midnight, Forecastle.
午夜，艏楼。

HARPOONEERS AND SAILORS.
鱼叉手和水手。

(FORESAIL RISES AND DISCOVERS THE WATCH STANDING, LOUNGING, LEANING, AND LYING IN VARIOUS ATTITUDES, ALL SINGING IN CHORUS.)
（船首升起，发现手表以各种姿势站立、躺卧、倾斜、躺着，全都在合唱。）

Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies!
再见，再见，西班牙女士们！

Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!
再见，再见，西班牙女士们！

Our captain’s commanded.—
我们的船长命令道——

1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR.
第一楠塔基特水手。

Oh, boys, don’t be sentimental; it’s bad for the digestion! Take a
哦，孩子们，不要多愁善感；不利于消化！采取一个

tonic, follow me!
补品，跟我来！

(SINGS, AND ALL FOLLOW)
（唱歌，所有人跟随）

Our captain stood upon the deck,
我们的船长站在甲板上，

A spy-glass in his hand,
手里拿着望远镜，

A viewing of those gallant whales
观赏那些勇敢的鲸鱼

That blew at every strand.
那吹动了每一根线。

Oh, your tubs in your boats, my boys,
哦，你们船上的浴缸，我的孩子们，

And by your braces stand,
在你的牙套旁边，

And we’ll have one of those fine whales,
我们将拥有其中一只漂亮的鲸鱼，

Hand, boys, over hand!
举手，孩子们，举手！

So, be cheery, my lads! may your hearts never fail!
所以，要高兴起来，我的小伙子们！愿你们的心永远不会失败！

While the bold harpooner is striking the whale!
当勇敢的鱼叉手正在攻击鲸鱼时！

MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK.
来自后甲板的大副的声音。

Eight bells there, forward!
八铃响了，前进！

2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR.
第二名楠塔基特水手。

Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d’ye hear, bell-boy? Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me call the watch. I’ve the sort of mouth for that—the hogshead mouth. So, so, (THRUSTS HIS HEAD DOWN THE SCUTTLE,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y! Eight bells there below! Tumble up!
阿瓦斯合唱！那里有八个钟声！服务员，你听到了吗？敲钟八下，皮普！你这个黑鬼！让我打电话给手表。我有一张适合做这种事的嘴——大嘴。所以，所以，（把头伸进天窗）Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s，a-h-o-y！下面有八个铃铛！翻滚起来！

DUTCH SAILOR.
荷兰水手。

Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I mark this in our old Mogul’s wine; it’s quite as deadening to some as filliping to others. We sing; they sleep—aye, lie down there, like ground-tier butts. At ‘em again! There, take this copper-pump, and hail ‘em through it. Tell ‘em to avast dreaming of their lasses. Tell ‘em it’s the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment. That’s the way—THAT’S it; thy throat ain’t spoiled with eating Amsterdam butter.
今晚要好好打个盹儿了，马蒂；为此，度过了一个愉快的夜晚。我在我们老大亨的酒中标记了这一点；对某些人来说，这就像让另一些人感到兴奋一样令人麻木。我们唱歌;他们睡觉——是的，躺在那里，就像地面上的屁股一样。又来对付他们了！在那里，拿着这个铜泵，欢迎他们通过它。告诉他们不要梦见他们的女儿。告诉他们这是复活；他们必须亲吻最后的吻，并接受审判。就是这样——就是这样；吃阿姆斯特丹黄油不会损坏你的喉咙。

FRENCH SAILOR.
法国水手。

Hist, boys! let’s have a jig or two before we ride to anchor in Blanket Bay. What say ye? There comes the other watch. Stand by all legs! Pip! little Pip! hurrah with your tambourine!
历史，孩子们！在我们驶向布兰凯特湾抛锚之前，我们来一两场吉格舞吧。你们说什么？另一块手表来了。所有的腿都站起来！噗！小皮普！敲起手鼓万岁！

PIP.
画中画。

(SULKY AND SLEEPY) Don’t know where it is.
（闷闷不乐、困倦）不知道它在哪里。

FRENCH SAILOR.
法国水手。

Beat thy belly, then, and wag thy ears. Jig it, men, I say; merry’s the word; hurrah! Damn me, won’t you dance? Form, now, Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle? Throw yourselves! Legs! legs!
那么，捶打你的肚子，摇动你的耳朵。我说，伙计们，来吧；快乐这个词；欢呼！妈的，你不跳舞吗？现在，排成印第安人的队伍，然后驰骋在双重洗牌中？扔掉你们自己吧！腿！腿！

ICELAND SAILOR.
冰岛水手。

I don’t like your floor, maty; it’s too springy to my taste. I’m used to ice-floors. I’m sorry to throw cold water on the subject; but excuse me.
我不喜欢你的地板，马蒂；对我来说太有弹性了。我已经习惯了冰地板。很抱歉给这个话题泼了一盆冷水；但请原谅。

MALTESE SAILOR.
马耳他水手。

Me too; where’s your girls? Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d’ye do? Partners! I must have partners!
我也是;你的女儿们在哪里？除了傻瓜之外，谁会握住自己的左手，对自己说，你好吗？伙伴！我必须有伙伴！

SICILIAN SAILOR.
西西里水手。

Aye; girls and a green!—then I’ll hop with ye; yea, turn grasshopper!
是啊；女孩和绿色！——那么我就和你们一起跳；是啊，变成蚱蜢！

LONG-ISLAND SAILOR.
长岛水手。

Well, well, ye sulkies, there’s plenty more of us. Hoe corn when you may, say I. All legs go to harvest soon. Ah! here comes the music; now for it!
好吧，好吧，你们这些闷闷不乐的人，我们还有很多人。我说，什么时候可以锄玉米。所有的腿很快就会收获。啊!音乐来了；现在就开始吧！

AZORE SAILOR.
AZORE 水手。

(ASCENDING, AND PITCHING THE TAMBOURINE UP THE SCUTTLE.) Here you are, Pip; and there’s the windlass-bitts; up you mount! Now, boys! (THE HALF OF THEM DANCE TO THE TAMBOURINE; SOME GO BELOW; SOME SLEEP OR LIE AMONG THE COILS OF RIGGING. OATHS A-PLENTY.)
（上升，把铃鼓推上天窗）给你，皮普；你来了，皮普。还有绞盘系缆柱；你上马吧！现在，孩子们！ （一半人随着手鼓起舞；有些人在下面；有些人睡觉或躺在索具的线圈中。誓言充足。）

AZORE SAILOR.
AZORE 水手。

(DANCING) Go it, Pip! Bang it, bell-boy! Rig it, dig it, stig it, quig it, bell-boy! Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!
（跳舞）加油，皮普！敲响吧，服务员！装配它，挖掘它，刺探它，奎克它，服务生！制作萤火虫；打破叮当声！

PIP.
画中画。

Jinglers, you say?—there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.
你说叮当声？——还有另一只，掉了下来；我就这样敲打。

CHINA SAILOR.
中国水手。

Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of thyself.
那么，就让你的牙齿嘎嘎作响，然后猛击吧；为自己建造一座宝塔。

FRENCH SAILOR.
法国水手。

Merry-mad! Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it! Split jibs! tear yourselves!
快活疯了！举起你的铁环，皮普，直到我跳过去！分臂！撕碎你自己吧！

TASHTEGO.
塔什泰戈。

(QUIETLY SMOKING) That’s a white man; he calls that fun: humph! I save my sweat.
（小声地抽烟）那是一个白人；他称这很有趣：哼！我节省我的汗水。

OLD MANX SAILOR.
老马恩岛水手。

I wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of what they are dancing over. I’ll dance over your grave, I will—that’s the bitterest threat of your night-women, that beat head-winds round corners. O Christ! to think of the green navies and the green-skulled crews! Well, well; belike the whole world’s a ball, as you scholars have it; and so ‘tis right to make one ballroom of it. Dance on, lads, you’re young; I was once.
我想知道那些快乐的小伙子是否还记得他们正在跳舞的内容。我会在你的坟墓上跳舞，我会的——这是你的夜女们最痛苦的威胁，她们战胜了拐角处的逆风。基督啊！想想绿色的海军和绿色骷髅的船员吧！好吧;正如你们学者所言，整个世界就像一个球；因此，用它建造一个舞厅是正确的。继续跳舞吧，小伙子们，你们还年轻；我曾经是。

3D NANTUCKET SAILOR.
3D 楠塔基特岛水手。

Spell oh!—whew! this is worse than pulling after whales in a calm—give us a whiff, Tash.
拼写哦！——哇！这比平静地追鲸还糟糕——让我们闻一闻，塔什。

(THEY CEASE DANCING, AND GATHER IN CLUSTERS. MEANTIME THE SKY DARKENS—THE WIND RISES.)
（他们停止跳舞，聚集成群。与此同时，天空变暗，风起。）

LASCAR SAILOR.
拉斯卡水手。

By Brahma! boys, it’ll be douse sail soon. The sky-born, high-tide Ganges turned to wind! Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!
梵天！伙计们，很快就会翻船了。天生恒河涨潮化为风！你露出了你的黑眉毛，西瓦！

MALTESE SAILOR.
马耳他水手。

(RECLINING AND SHAKING HIS CAP.) It’s the waves—the snow’s caps turn to jig it now. They’ll shake their tassels soon. Now would all the waves were women, then I’d go drown, and chassee with them evermore! There’s naught so sweet on earth—heaven may not match it!—as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the over-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes.
（斜倚着，摇晃帽子。）是海浪——雪帽现在转动起来，摇晃着它。他们很快就会摇动流苏。现在如果所有的波浪都是女人，那么我就会被淹死，并永远与她们追逐！地球上没有什么比舞蹈中那温暖、狂野的胸膛更甜蜜的了——天堂可能无法比拟，当过度的手臂隐藏着如此成熟、爆裂的葡萄时。

SICILIAN SAILOR.
西西里水手。

(RECLINING.) Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad—fleet interlacings of the limbs—lithe swayings—coyings—flutterings! lip! heart! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye, else come satiety. Eh, Pagan? (NUDGING.)
（斜倚）别告诉我！听啊，小伙子——四肢快速交错——轻快的摇摆——​​狡诈——扑腾！唇！心！时髦的！全部放牧：不断的触摸和走！不要尝尝，观察一下，否则就会产生饱腹感。呃，异教徒？ （轻推。）

TAHITAN SAILOR.
大溪地水手。

(RECLINING ON A MAT.) Hail, holy nakedness of our dancing girls!—the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I still rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid! I saw thee woven in the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now worn and wilted quite. Ah me!—not thou nor I can bear the change! How then, if so be transplanted to yon sky? Hear I the roaring streams from Pirohitee’s peak of spears, when they leap down the crags and drown the villages?—The blast! the blast! Up, spine, and meet it! (LEAPS TO HIS FEET.)
（斜靠在垫子上）万岁，我们的舞女们神圣的裸体！——Heeva-Heeva！啊!低面纱、高棕榈的塔希提岛！我仍然躺在你的垫子上，但松软的土壤已经滑落了！我看到你被编织在木头上，我的垫子！我把你们带到那里的第一天，绿色；现在已经磨损并且枯萎了。啊我！——你我都无法承受这种改变！那么，如果是的话，如何移植到天空呢？我听到从皮罗希提矛尖峰发出的咆哮溪流，它们从悬崖上跳下，淹没了村庄吗？——爆炸！爆炸！站起来，脊椎，迎接它！ （跳起来。）

PORTUGUESE SAILOR.
葡萄牙水手。

How the sea rolls swashing ‘gainst the side! Stand by for reefing, hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell they’ll go lunging presently.
海浪如何翻腾，冲向一边！准备收礁吧，亲爱的们！风刚刚交过剑，他们很快就会乱窜。

DANISH SAILOR.
丹麦水手。

Crack, crack, old ship! so long as thou crackest, thou holdest! Well done! The mate there holds ye to it stiffly. He’s no more afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic with storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes!
裂纹，裂纹，老船！只要你破裂，你就坚持！做得好！那里的大副紧紧地抓住你。他并不比卡特加特岛上的堡垒更害怕，在那里用暴风雨袭击的枪与波罗的海作战，枪上结满了海盐！

4TH NANTUCKET SAILOR.
第四楠塔基特水手。

He has his orders, mind ye that. I heard old Ahab tell him he must always kill a squall, something as they burst a waterspout with a pistol—fire your ship right into it!
他有他的命令，请注意。我听到老亚哈告诉他，他必须永远消灭一场暴​​风雨，就像他们用手枪炸开水龙卷一样——把你的船直接射向它！

ENGLISH SAILOR.
英国水手。

Blood! but that old man’s a grand old cove! We are the lads to hunt him up his whale!
血！但那个老人是个伟大的老海湾！我们是去追捕他的鲸鱼的小伙子！

ALL.
全部。

Aye! aye!
是啊！是啊！

OLD MANX SAILOR.
老马恩岛水手。

How the three pines shake! Pines are the hardest sort of tree to live when shifted to any other soil, and here there’s none but the crew’s cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is the sort of weather when brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea. Our captain has his birthmark; look yonder, boys, there’s another in the sky—lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch black.
三棵松树摇晃得多么厉害！松树是最难在其他土壤上生存的树种，而这里只有船员们被诅咒的粘土。稳住，舵手！稳定的。在这种天气下，勇敢的心突然上岸，龙骨船体在海上破裂。我们的船长有他的胎记；孩子们，看那边，天空中还有另一个——你看，那是可怕的，其他一切都是漆黑的。

DAGGOO.
达古。

What of that? Who’s afraid of black’s afraid of me! I’m quarried out of it!
那又怎样呢？谁怕黑就怕我！我被挖出来了！

SPANISH SAILOR.
西班牙水手。

(ASIDE.) He wants to bully, ah!—the old grudge makes me touchy (ADVANCING.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the undeniable dark side of mankind—devilish dark at that. No offence.
（旁白）他想欺负人，啊！——宿怨让我变得敏感（前进。）是的，鱼叉手，你的种族是人类不可否认的黑暗面——邪恶的黑暗面。没有恶意。

DAGGOO (GRIMLY).
达古（冷酷地）。

None.
没有任何。

ST. JAGO’S SAILOR.
英石。杰戈的水手。

That Spaniard’s mad or drunk. But that can’t be, or else in his one case our old Mogul’s fire-waters are somewhat long in working.
那个西班牙人疯了或者喝醉了。但那是不可能的，否则在他的一案中，我们老大亨的火药就发挥作用得有点久了。

5TH NANTUCKET SAILOR.
第五届楠塔基特水手。

What’s that I saw—lightning? Yes.
我看到了什么——闪电？是的。

SPANISH SAILOR.
西班牙水手。

No; Daggoo showing his teeth.
不;达古露出牙齿。

DAGGOO (SPRINGING).
达古（春天）。

Swallow thine, mannikin! White skin, white liver!
吞下你的，小矮人！皮肤白，肝白！

SPANISH SAILOR (MEETING HIM).
西班牙水手（与他会面）。

Knife thee heartily! big frame, small spirit!
狠狠地砍你一刀！大框架，小精神！

ALL.
全部。

A row! a row! a row!
一排！一排！一排！

TASHTEGO (WITH A WHIFF).
塔什泰戈（闻了一声）。

A row a’low, and a row aloft—Gods and men—both brawlers! Humph!
低处一排，高处一排——诸神和人类——都是斗殴者！哼!

BELFAST SAILOR.
贝尔法斯特水手。

A row! arrah a row! The Virgin be blessed, a row! Plunge in with ye!
一排！阿拉一排！圣母有福，行！和你们一起投入吧！

ENGLISH SAILOR.
英国水手。

Fair play! Snatch the Spaniard’s knife! A ring, a ring!
公平竞争！抢夺西班牙人的刀！戒指，戒指！

OLD MANX SAILOR.
老马恩岛水手。

Ready formed. There! the ringed horizon. In that ring Cain struck Abel. Sweet work, right work! No? Why then, God, mad’st thou the ring?
准备成型了。那里！环状的地平线。在那个环中，该隐击中了亚伯。甜蜜的工作，正确的工作！不？那么，上帝啊，你为什么要让戒指发疯呢？

MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK.
来自后甲板的大副的声音。

Hands by the halyards! in top-gallant sails! Stand by to reef topsails!
双手握住升降索！扬帆起航！靠近礁石中帆！

ALL.
全部。

The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (THEY SCATTER.)
暴风雨！暴风雨！跳吧，我的快乐！ （他们四散。）

PIP (SHRINKING UNDER THE WINDLASS).
皮普（缩在卷扬机下）。

Jollies? Lord help such jollies! Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal yard! It’s worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of the year! Who’d go climbing after chestnuts now? But there they go, all cursing, and here I don’t. Fine prospects to ‘em; they’re on the road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a squall! But those chaps there are worse yet—they are your white squalls, they. White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have I heard all their chat just now, and the white whale—shirr! shirr!—but spoken of once! and only this evening—it makes me jingle all over like my tambourine—that anaconda of an old man swore ‘em in to hunt him! Oh, thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy on this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that have no bowels to feel fear!
乔利斯？上帝保佑这样的欢乐吧！危机、崩溃！三角帆消失了！嘭嘭！上帝！低下头，皮普，皇家庭院来了！这比在一年的最后一天在旋转的树林里更糟糕！现在谁会去爬栗子呢？但他们都在咒骂，而我却没有。他们前景美好；他们正在通往天堂的路上。坚持住！吉米尼，真是一场暴风雨啊！但那里的那些家伙更糟糕——他们是你们的白暴风，他们。白色暴风雨？白鲸，嘘！嘘！我刚才听到了他们所有的谈话，还有白鲸——嘘！嘘！——不过曾经说过一次！就在今天晚上——它让我像我的手鼓一样叮当响——那条像蟒蛇的老人发誓要猎杀他！哦，你那高高在黑暗中某处的白色大神，怜悯一下这里的这个小黑人男孩吧；保护他免受所有没有勇气感到恐惧的人的伤害！

Chapter 41
第41章

Moby Dick.
莫比·迪克.

I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest; my oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger I shouted, and more did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab’s quenchless feud seemed mine. With greedy ears I learned the history of that murderous monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of violence and revenge.
我，以实玛利，是那群人中的一员；我的叫喊声也随着其他人一起响起。我的誓言与他们的誓言融为一体；由于内心的恐惧，我喊得更厉害，我的誓言也更加坚定。我心里有一种狂野、神秘、富有同情心的感觉。亚哈不休的不和似乎是我的。我用贪婪的耳朵了解了那个凶残的怪物的历史，我和所有其他人都发誓要对它进行暴力和报复。

For some time past, though at intervals only, the unaccompanied, secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew of his existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him, was small indeed. For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference, many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch, to encounter a single news-telling sail of any sort; the inordinate length of each separate voyage; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home; all these, with other circumstances, direct and indirect, long obstructed the spread through the whole world-wide whaling-fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick. It was hardly to be doubted, that several vessels reported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or on such or such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity, which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had completely escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I say, that the whale in question must have been no other than Moby Dick. Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual cause. In that way, mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded.
在过去的一段时间里，虽然只是偶尔，无人陪伴、与世隔绝的白鲸一直出没于抹香鲸渔民最常光顾的未开化海域。但并不是所有人都知道他的存在。相比之下，他们中只有少数人故意见过他。而迄今为止，真正有意向他发起战斗的人数确实很少。因为，由于鲸鱼巡洋舰数量众多；他们无序地散布在整个水域周围，他们中的许多人冒险地沿着孤独的纬度推进他们的探索，这样在整整十二个月或更长的时间内很少或从未遇到任何类型的单一新闻帆；每个单独航程的长度过长；从家乡出发的航行时间不规律；所有这些，加上其他直接和间接的情况，长期以来阻碍了有关莫比迪克的特殊个人消息在整个世界范围内的捕鲸船队的传播。毫无疑问，据报道，有几艘船只在某个时间，或者在某条子午线上，遇到了一头体型巨大、凶猛程度不寻常的抹香鲸，这头抹香鲸对袭击者造成了巨大的伤害，完全逃离了他们；我想说，对某些人来说，所讨论的鲸鱼一定就是白鲸，这并不是一个不公平的推定。 然而，最近抹香鲸渔业的特点是各种且屡见不鲜的怪物袭击事件，其凶猛、狡猾和恶意；因此，那些无意中无知地与莫比·迪克交战的人正是如此。也许，大多数猎人都满足于将他所产生的特殊恐惧归因于整个抹香鲸渔业的危险，而不是个人原因。迄今为止，大多数人都以这种方式看待亚哈和鲸鱼之间的灾难性遭遇。

And as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by chance caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had every one of them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any other whale of that species. But at length, such calamities did ensue in these assaults—not restricted to sprained wrists and ankles, broken limbs, or devouring amputations—but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors upon Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many brave hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.
至于那些之前听说过白鲸，偶然看到他的人；在事情一开始，他们就几乎像对待该物种的任何其他鲸鱼一样大胆无畏地为他放下了每一个人。但最终，这些袭击确实带来了这样的灾难——不仅限于扭伤手腕和脚踝、骨折或截肢——而是致命的。那些一再发生的灾难性的拒绝，所有这些都在莫比·迪克身上积累和堆积了恐惧；这些事情极大地动摇了许多勇敢的猎人的毅力，白鲸的故事最终来到了他们的面前。

Nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more horrify the true histories of these deadly encounters. For not only do fabulous rumors naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising terrible events,—as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in maritime life, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound, wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to. And as the sea surpasses the land in this matter, so the whale fishery surpasses every other sort of maritime life, in the wonderfulness and fearfulness of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not only are whalemen as a body unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors; but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most directly brought into contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face they not only eye its greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to them. Alone, in such remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed a thousand shores, you would not come to any chiseled hearth-stone, or aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman is wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a mighty birth.
各种荒诞的谣言也并非没有夸大其词，而且这些致命遭遇的真实历史更加令人恐惧。因为，不仅神话般的谣言会自然而然地从所有令人惊讶的可怕事件的主体中生长出来——就像被击倒的树生出真菌一样；但是，在海上生活中，远比陆地生活中的情况要多得多，只要有足够的现实依据，疯狂的谣言就比比皆是。正如海洋在这方面胜过陆地一样，鲸鱼捕捞也胜过其他一切海洋生物，那里有时流传的谣言既奇妙又可怕。因为捕鲸者作为一个整体，不仅不能免于所有水手所遗传的无知和迷信，而且也不能幸免。但在所有水手中，他们无疑是最直接接触海洋中令人震惊的事物的人。他们不仅面对面地目睹了最伟大的奇迹，而且还与他们展开了肉搏战。独自一人，在如此偏远的水域，即使你航行了一千英里，经过了一千​​个海岸，你也不会到达任何凿刻的炉石，也不会到达那片阳光下的任何好客之处；在这样的纬度和经度上，追求这样的使命，捕鲸人受到各种影响，所有这些影响都倾向于使他的幻想孕育出许多强大的诞生。

No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which eventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic did he finally strike, that few who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White Whale, few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his jaw.
难怪，仅仅在最广阔的水域中航行，白鲸的谣言就不断聚集，最终确实融入了各种病态的暗示，以及超自然力量的半成形胎儿暗示，最终，《白鲸》给莫比迪克带来了新的恐惧，而这些恐惧并不是从任何明显出现的事物中借来的。因此，在很多情况下，他最终都会陷入恐慌，以至于很少有人至少听说过白鲸，那些猎人中也很少有人愿意遭遇他下巴的危险。

But there were still other and more vital practical influences at work. Not even at the present day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body. There are those this day among them, who, though intelligent and courageous enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would perhaps—either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or timidity, decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are plenty of whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing under the American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm Whale, but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to the ignoble monster primitively pursued in the North; seated on their hatches, these men will hearken with a childish fireside interest and awe, to the wild, strange tales of Southern whaling. Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm Whale anywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which stem him.
但还有其他更重要的实际影响在起作用。即使在今天，抹香鲸与所有其他利维坦物种截然不同的最初威望也没有从捕鲸者的心中消失。今天，他们中的一些人，尽管在与格陵兰鲸或露脊鲸进行战斗时有足够的智慧和勇气，但也许会因为专业经验不足、无能或胆怯而拒绝与抹香鲸进行竞争；无论如何，有很多捕鲸者，特别是在那些不悬挂美国国旗的捕鲸国家中，他们从未敌对过抹香鲸，但他们对这种利维坦的唯一了解仅限于北方原始追捕的可耻的怪物；这些人坐在舱口上，带着孩子般的炉边兴趣和敬畏，聆听南方捕鲸的疯狂而奇怪的故事。对于伟大的抹香鲸来说，最能感受到它的巨大威力的，莫过于站在它的船头。

And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book naturalists—Olassen and Povelson—declaring the Sperm Whale not only to be a consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood. Nor even down to so late a time as Cuvier’s, were these or almost similar impressions effaced. For in his Natural History, the Baron himself affirms that at sight of the Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are ‘struck with the most lively terrors,’ and ‘often in the precipitancy of their flight dash themselves against the rocks with such violence as to cause instantaneous death.’ And however the general experiences in the fishery may amend such reports as these; yet in their full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of Povelson, the superstitious belief in them is, in some vicissitudes of their vocation, revived in the minds of the hunters.
仿佛他的力量现在经受考验的现实已经在以前的传奇时代投下了阴影；我们发现一些博物学家——奥拉森和波维尔森——宣称抹香鲸不仅让海洋中的其他生物感到震惊，而且还非常凶猛，不断渴望人类的血液。即使到了居维叶这样晚的时代，这些或几乎类似的印象也没有被抹去。因为在他的自然史中，男爵本人确认，一看到抹香鲸，所有的鱼（包括鲨鱼）都会“受到最强烈的恐惧”，并且“常常在飞行的急速过程中用这样的方式将自己撞到岩石上”。然而，渔业的一般经验可能会修正这些报告；然而，尽管它们十分可怕，甚至对于波维尔森的嗜血物品来说，在它们职业的某些变迁中，对它们的迷信信仰却在猎人的心中复活了。

So that overawed by the rumors and portents concerning him, not a few of the fishermen recalled, in reference to Moby Dick, the earlier days of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was oftentimes hard to induce long practised Right whalemen to embark in the perils of this new and daring warfare; such men protesting that although other leviathans might be hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity. On this head, there are some remarkable documents that may be consulted.
因此，不少渔民对有关他的谣言和预兆感到震惊，并在提到《白鲸》时回忆起早期的抹香鲸捕捞活动，当时往往很难诱使经验丰富的露脊鲸捕鲸者踏上危险的旅程。这场新的、勇敢的战争；这些人抗议说，尽管可能有希望追捕其他利维坦，但追逐并用长矛瞄准抹香鲸这样的幽灵并不适合凡人。尝试这样做，将不可避免地被撕裂成快速的永恒。在这方面，有一些值得参考的重要文件。

Nevertheless, some there were, who even in the face of these things were ready to give chase to Moby Dick; and a still greater number who, chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without the specific details of any certain calamity, and without superstitious accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if offered.
尽管如此，还是有一些人，即使面对这些事情，仍准备追赶莫比·迪克。还有更多的人，只是偶然在遥远的地方模糊地听到了他的消息，没有任何特定灾难的具体细节，也没有迷信的伴随，他们足够坚强，即使有战斗，也不会逃离。

One of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linked with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined, was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous; that he had actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same instant of time.
其中一个疯狂的想法最终在迷信倾向的人心中与白鲸联系在一起，那就是莫比迪克无处不在的超凡自负；他实际上是在同一时刻在相反的纬度遇到的。

Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, was this conceit altogether without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged, even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the Sperm Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to his pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the mystic modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports himself with such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.
尽管这些人一定很容易轻信，但这种自负并不完全没有一丝迷信概率的痕迹。因为即使是最博学的研究，海洋洋流的秘密也从未被泄露；因此，抹香鲸在水下的隐藏方式在很大程度上对它的追捕者来说是无法解释的。并且时不时地产生了关于它们的最奇怪和最矛盾的猜测，特别是关于神秘模式，在这种神秘模式下，在听起来很深之后，他将自己以如此巨大的速度传送到最遥远的地方。

It is a thing well known to both American and English whale-ships, and as well a thing placed upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby, that some whales have been captured far north in the Pacific, in whose bodies have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in the Greenland seas. Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in some of these instances it has been declared that the interval of time between the two assaults could not have exceeded very many days. Hence, by inference, it has been believed by some whalemen, that the Nor’ West Passage, so long a problem to man, was never a problem to the whale. So that here, in the real living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of the inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said to be a lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface); and that still more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near Syracuse (whose waters were believed to have come from the Holy Land by an underground passage); these fabulous narrations are almost fully equalled by the realities of the whalemen.
这是美国和英国捕鲸船都知道的事情，也是斯科斯比多年前记录在案的事情：一些鲸鱼在太平洋北部很远的地方被捕获，在它们的尸体上发现了倒刺。鱼叉在格陵兰海中飞驰。无可否认的是，在其中一些情况下，已经宣布两次袭击之间的时间间隔不会超过很多天。因此，根据推论，一些捕鲸者相信，长期以来对人类来说是个问题的西北航道，对鲸鱼来说从来都不是问题。因此，在这里，在活着的人的真实生活经历中，这些神童与葡萄牙内陆斯特雷洛山的旧时代有关（据说在其山顶附近有一个湖，其中沉船的残骸漂浮在水面上）；还有关于锡拉丘兹附近阿雷图萨喷泉的更精彩的故事（据信其水是通过地下通道从圣地而来）；这些神话般的叙述几乎完全可以与捕鲸人的现实相媲美。

Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should go still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still swim away unharmed; or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would once more be seen.
那么，被迫熟悉这些神童；并知道经过反复无畏的袭击，白鲸已经活着逃脱了；一些捕鲸者的迷信走得更远，这不足为奇。宣称莫比迪克不仅无处不在，而且是不朽的（因为不朽只是时间上的普遍存在）；即使在他的侧翼插上长矛丛，他仍然会毫发无伤地游走。或者，如果他真的要喷出浓稠的血液，这样的景象也只不过是一个可怕的骗局。因为在数百里之外的未受污染的巨浪中，他那无垢的喷气式飞机将再次被看见。

But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was enough in the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to strike the imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much his uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, but, as was elsewhere thrown out—a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead, and a high, pyramidical white hump. These were his prominent features; the tokens whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he revealed his identity, at a long distance, to those who knew him.
但即使抛开这些超自然的猜测，这个怪物的尘世构造和无可争议的性格也足以以不寻常的力量震撼人们的想象力。因为，与其说他的体型不寻常，倒不如说他与其他抹香鲸有很大区别，但正如其他地方所指出的那样，他有一个奇特的雪白、有皱纹的前额，以及一个高高的、金字塔形的白色驼峰。这些都是他的显着特征。即使在无边无际、未知的海洋中，他也能在远处向认识他的人透露自己的身份。

The rest of his body was so streaked, and spotted, and marbled with the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had gained his distinctive appellation of the White Whale; a name, indeed, literally justified by his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all spangled with golden gleamings.
他身体的其余部分都布满了条纹、斑点和大理石花纹，具有同样的隐秘色调，最终，他获得了“白鲸”的独特称号。事实上，这个名字确实是因为他生动的外表而名副其实，当人们看到它在正午滑过深蓝色的大海时，留下了一条乳白色泡沫的银河轨迹，所有的一切都闪烁着金色的光芒。

Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his remarkable hue, nor yet his deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the whale with natural terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, according to specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his assaults. More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than perhaps aught else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn round suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.
并不是它那不寻常的体型，也不是它非凡的色调，也不是它畸形的下颌，让鲸鱼产生了天生的恐惧，而是根据具体的记载，它一再表现出前所未有的、聪明的恶意。他的攻击。最重要的是，他的背信弃义的撤退或许比其他任何事情都更令人沮丧。因为，当他游到兴高采烈的追赶者面前时，每一个明显的惊慌症状，他都有好几次突然转身，向他们猛冲过来，要么把他们的船打成碎片，要么把他们惊慌地赶回船上。 。

Already several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similar disasters, however little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in the fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White Whale’s infernal aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or death that he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.
在他的追捕过程中，已经有几人死亡。不过，尽管类似的灾难，无论岸上的伤害有多小，在渔业中都绝非罕见。然而，在大多数情况下，白鲸似乎对凶猛有着地狱般的预谋，以至于他造成的每一次肢解或死亡都没有完全被认为是由一个不聪明的特工造成的。

Judge, then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury the minds of his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of chewed boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the white curds of the whale’s direful wrath into the serene, exasperating sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.
那么，想象一下，当那些更加绝望的猎人在被咬碎的小船的碎片和被撕破的战友的下沉的四肢之中，从鲸鱼可怕的愤怒的白色凝乳中游出来时，他们的思想被驱使到了多么激烈的、心烦意乱的愤怒。走进宁静而令人恼火的阳光，阳光微笑着，仿佛在出生或举行婚礼。

His three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whirling in the eddies; one captain, seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had dashed at the whale, as an Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking with a six inch blade to reach the fathom-deep life of the whale. That captain was Ahab. And then it was, that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had reaped away Ahab’s leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field. No turbaned Turk, no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming malice. Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale, all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came to identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his intellectual and spiritual exasperations. The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in them, till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung. That intangible malignity which has been from the beginning; to whose dominion even the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient Ophites of the east reverenced in their statue devil;—Ahab did not fall down and worship it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to the abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it. All that most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick. He piled upon the whale’s white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart’s shell upon it.
他的三艘船在他周围沸腾，桨和人都在漩涡中旋转。一位船长从折断的船头上抓起钓线刀，冲向鲸鱼，就像阿肯色州的决斗者与敌人一样，盲目地用六英寸的刀片试图触及鲸鱼深海的生命。那个船长就是亚哈。就在这时，莫比·迪克突然扫过身下镰刀状的下颌，割掉了亚哈的腿，就像割草机割掉田野里的草叶一样。没有一个戴头巾的土耳其人，没有一个受雇的威尼斯人或马来人，能够以更加明显的恶意来攻击他。那么，没有什么理由怀疑，自从那次几乎致命的遭遇之后，亚哈就对鲸鱼怀有一种疯狂的报复心，尤其是在他疯狂的病态中，他最终开始认同鲸鱼，不仅是他所有的一切。身体上的痛苦，还有他所有智力和精神上的烦恼。白鲸在他面前游动，就像所有那些恶意机构的偏执化身，一些深沉的人感到这些机构正在吞噬它们，直到他们带着一半的心和一半的肺活下去。那种从一开始就存在的无形的恶意；甚至现代基督徒也将世界的一半归于其统治；古代东方的奥菲特人在他们的魔鬼雕像中崇敬它；——亚哈并没有像他们那样俯伏敬拜它；但他疯狂地把它的想法转移到了令人憎恶的白鲸身上，他把自己弄得支离破碎，与它对抗。所有这一切最让人抓狂和折磨；一切搅动事物残渣的事物；所有的真理都带有恶意；所有这些都会使筋骨破裂，使大脑结块；生活和思想中所有微妙的恶魔主义；对于疯狂的亚哈来说，所有的邪恶都明显地被拟人化了，并且在《白鲸》中几乎可以受到攻击。 他把自亚当以来整个种族所感受到的所有愤怒和仇恨的总和堆放在鲸鱼的白色驼峰上。然后，他的胸口仿佛成为了一颗迫击炮，将他炽热的心壳击碎了。

It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at the precise time of his bodily dismemberment. Then, in darting at the monster, knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate, corporal animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he probably but felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more. Yet, when by this collision forced to turn towards home, and for long months of days and weeks, Ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one hammock, rounding in mid winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape; then it was, that his torn body and gashed soul bled into one another; and so interfusing, made him mad. That it was only then, on the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania seized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at intervals during the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed of a leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In a strait-jacket, he swung to the mad rockings of the gales. And, when running into more sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun’sails spread, floated across the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man’s delirium seemed left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his dark den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that firm, collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once again; and his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in his hidden self, raved on. Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most feline thing. When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured into some still subtler form. Ahab’s full lunacy subsided not, but deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge. But, as in his narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab’s broad madness had been left behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural intellect had perished. That before living agent, now became the living instrument. If such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacy stormed his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all its concentred cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having lost his strength, Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand fold more potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon any one reasonable object.
他身上的这种偏执症不太可能在他的身体被肢解的那一刻立即兴起。然后，当他手持刀冲向怪物时，他却突然爆发出一种强烈的、肉体上的敌意。当他受到撕裂的中风时，他可能只感受到了令人痛苦的身体撕裂，但仅此而已。然而，当这次碰撞迫使他转向家乡时，在漫长的数月、日复一日、数周的时间里，亚哈和痛苦躺在一张吊床上，绕着隆冬那片沉闷、嚎叫的巴塔哥尼亚海角；然后，他撕裂的身体和伤痕累累的灵魂彼此流血。如此干涉，让他发疯。直到那时，在返航途中，在遭遇之后，最终的偏执狂才抓住了他，这一点几乎可以肯定，因为在旅途中，他时不时地会变成一个胡言乱语的疯子。尽管失去了一条腿，但他的埃及胸膛里仍然潜藏着如此重要的力量，而且他的精神错乱加剧了他的力量，以至于他的伙伴们被迫把他绑得紧紧的，即使在那里，当他航行时，在吊床上胡言乱语。他穿着紧身衣，在狂风的疯狂摇晃中摇摆。当驶入更难以忍受的纬度时，船张开轻微的眩晕帆，漂浮在宁静的热带地区，从所有迹象来看，老人的精神错乱似乎随着合恩角的海浪而被抛在了身后，他从他的黑暗巢穴进入了神圣的光明和空气；即便如此，当他脸上露出坚定、镇定的表情，尽管脸色苍白，并再次发出冷静的命令时，他的伙伴们感谢上帝，可怕的疯狂现在已经过去了。即便如此，亚哈仍然在隐藏的自我中胡言乱语。人类的疯狂往往是狡猾且最猫科动物的行为。 当你认为它逃跑时，它可能只是变形为某种更微妙的形式。亚哈的彻底疯狂并没有消退，反而更加严重了。就像哈得逊河一样，高贵的北方人狭窄而深不可测地流过高地峡谷。但是，就像他狭隘的偏执狂一样，亚哈的广泛疯狂没有一丝一毫被抛在脑后。因此，在那场广泛的疯狂中，他伟大的天赋智慧并没有消失一丁点。之前的活体代理，现在变成了活体工具。如果这样一个愤怒的比喻成立的话，那么他特殊的疯狂袭击了他的理智，并控制了他，并将所有集中的大炮转向了自己的疯狂目标；因此，亚哈非但没有失去力量，为此目的，他现在所拥有的力量比他理智地用于任何合理目标的力量都要强大一千倍。

This is much; yet Ahab’s larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted. But vain to popularize profundities, and all truth is profound. Winding far down from within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where we here stand—however grand and wonderful, now quit it;—and take your way, ye nobler, sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes; where far beneath the fantastic towers of man’s upper earth, his root of grandeur, his whole awful essence sits in bearded state; an antique buried beneath antiquities, and throned on torsoes! So with a broken throne, the great gods mock that captive king; so like a Caryatid, he patient sits, upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures of ages. Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder souls! question that proud, sad king! A family likeness! aye, he did beget ye, ye young exiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old State-secret come.
这已经很多了；然而，亚哈更大、更黑暗、更深的部分仍然没有被暗示。但无力普及深奥，一切道理都是深奥的。从我们所在的克鲁尼酒店的中心蜿蜒而下——无论多么宏伟和美妙，现在退出吧；——走上你们的路，你们这些高贵、悲伤的灵魂，到泰尔梅斯那些巨大的罗马大厅；远在人类上层世界的奇异塔楼之下，他的宏伟之根，他整个可怕的本质都处于长着胡须的状态；一件埋在古董下面、坐在躯干上的古董！因此，随着王座的破碎，众神嘲笑了被俘虏的国王；病人就像女像柱一样坐着，冰冷的额头上举着年代久远堆积起来的柱顶。你们这些更骄傲、更悲伤的灵魂们，把你们吹到那里吧！质问那个骄傲而​​悲伤的国王！一家人的相似度！是的，他确实生下了你们，你们这些年轻的流亡皇室成员；只有从你冷酷的陛下那里才能得知古老的国家机密。

Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely: all my means are sane, my motive and my object mad. Yet without power to kill, or change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long dissemble; in some sort, did still. But that thing of his dissembling was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will determinate. Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that when with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the terrible casualty which had overtaken him.
现在，亚哈心里隐隐约约地看到了这一点：我的手段都是理智的，我的动机和目的都是疯狂的。然而却没有权力去杀死、改变或回避事实；他同样知道，他长期以来一直在向人类隐瞒。在某种程度上，仍然如此。但他掩饰的东西只受他感知，不以他意志决定。然而，他的掩饰做得非常成功，以至于当他最终用象牙腿登上岸时，没有一个楠塔基特人认为他有什么不同，但自然地感到悲伤，而且对于他所遭受的可怕的伤亡，他感到非常悲伤。

The report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularly ascribed to a kindred cause. And so too, all the added moodiness which always afterwards, to the very day of sailing in the Pequod on the present voyage, sat brooding on his brow. Nor is it so very unlikely, that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling voyage, on account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that prudent isle were inclined to harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he was all the better qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full of rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within and scorched without, with the infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurable idea; such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to dart his iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brutes. Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that, yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on his underlings to the attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is, that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any one of his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on profitable cruises, the profit to be counted down in dollars from the mint. He was intent on an audacious, immitigable, and supernatural revenge.
关于他在海上不可否认的精神错乱的报道同样普遍被归咎于类似的原因。同样，所有增加的喜怒无常的情绪，一直到此后乘坐“裴廓德号”航行的那一天，一直萦绕在他的额头上。也不是不太可能的是，由于这些黑暗的症状，远非怀疑他是否适合再次捕鲸航行，那个谨慎的岛上精于算计的人们倾向于怀有这样的自负，正是由于这些原因，他才更有资格并为像血腥的鲸鱼捕猎这样充满愤怒和野性的追求而感到紧张。某种无法治愈的想法的无情的尖牙深深地咬住了它的内部，烧焦了它的外部；如果能找到这样一个人，他似乎就是那个挥舞着铁棍、举起长矛对抗最可怕的野兽的人。或者，如果出于任何原因被认为在身体上没有能力这样做，但这样的人似乎非常有能力在他的部下受到攻击时欢呼和嚎叫。但无论这一切如何，可以肯定的是，随着亚哈心中不灭的愤怒的疯狂秘密，他特意带着唯一的、全神贯注的目标——狩猎白鲸，开始了这次航行。 。如果他的任何一个老熟人在岸上，但半梦到了他身上潜藏着的东西，他们惊恐而正义的灵魂多久就会从这样一个恶魔般的人身上夺走船！他们一心致力于有利可图的游轮航行，利润将从造币厂以美元计算。他一心要进行一次大胆的、不可宽恕的、超自然的复仇。

Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses a Job’s whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too, chiefly made up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals—morally enfeebled also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness in Starbuck, the invunerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew, so officered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatality to help him to his monomaniac revenge. How it was that they so aboundingly responded to the old man’s ire—by what evil magic their souls were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale as much their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be—what the White Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon of the seas of life,—all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than Ishmael can go. The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one tell whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick? Who does not feel the irresistible arm drag? What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand still? For one, I gave myself up to the abandonment of the time and the place; but while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute but the deadliest ill.
那么，这个白发苍苍、不敬虔的老人，带着咒骂环游世界追逐一条约伯鲸，带领着一个主要由杂种叛徒、漂流者和食人者组成的船员——道德也日渐衰弱，星巴克的无能是单纯的美德或正直的思想，斯塔布的冷漠和鲁莽的无敌快乐，以及弗拉斯克的普遍平庸。这样的船员，如此军官，似乎是由某种地狱般的宿命专门挑选和包装的，以帮助他进行偏执狂的复仇。他们对老人的愤怒做出了如此强烈的反应——他们的灵魂被邪恶的魔法所附身，有时他的仇恨几乎是他们的；白鲸既是他们难以忍受的敌人，也是他的敌人；这一切是如何发生的——白鲸对他们来说意味着什么，或者在他们无意识的理解中，他也可能以某种模糊的、毫无疑问的方式看起来像是生命之海中滑翔的巨大恶魔——所有这一切都是为了解释，将比以实玛利潜得更深。我们所有人都在地下工作，如何通过镐不断变化、低沉的声音来判断他的竖井通向何处？谁没有感受到不可抗拒的手臂拖拽感？七十四艘拖着的小船哪能静止不动？其一，我放弃了时间和地点；尽管所有人都急于与鲸鱼相遇，但除了最致命的疾病外，他们在这头野兽身上看不到任何东西。

Chapter 42
第42章

The Whiteness of The Whale.
鲸鱼的洁白。

What the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
已经暗示了白鲸对亚哈来说意味着什么；有时，他对我来说意味着什么，至今仍未明说。

Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which could not but occasionally awaken in any man’s soul some alarm, there was another thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him, which at times by its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of putting it in a comprehensible form. It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things appalled me. But how can I hope to explain myself here; and yet, in some dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all these chapters might be naught.
除了那些涉及莫比·迪克的更明显的考虑之外，这些考虑偶尔会在任何人的灵魂中引起一些警觉，还有另一种想法，或者说是模糊的，与他有关的无名的恐惧，有时其强度完全压倒了所有其他的想法；然而，它是如此神秘，几乎无法形容，以至于我几乎绝望地把它以一种可以理解的形式表达出来。最令我震惊的是鲸鱼的白色。但我怎么能指望在这里解释自己呢？然而，我必须以某种模糊、随机的方式解释自己，否则所有这些章节可能都毫无意义。

Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty, as if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles, japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised a certain royal preeminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old kings of Pegu placing the title ‘Lord of the White Elephants’ above all their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings of Siam unfurling the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard; and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger; and the great Austrian Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome, having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue; and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself, giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe; and though, besides, all this, whiteness has been even made significant of gladness, for among the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is made the emblem of many touching, noble things—the innocence of brides, the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving of the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honour; though in many climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge, and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flame being held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology, that spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though in the Vision of St. John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great-white throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all these accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honourable, and sublime, there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood.
尽管在许多自然物体中，白色能够精致地增强美感，仿佛赋予其自身某种特殊的美德，例如大理石、粳米和珍珠；尽管各个国家都以某种方式承认这种色调具有一定的王室地位；甚至勃固的野蛮而伟大的老国王也将“白象之王”的头衔置于他们所有其他夸大的统治地位之上；现代暹罗国王也展开了与皇家旗帜相同的雪白四足动物；汉诺威旗帜上有一只雪白的战马图案；伟大的奥地利帝国凯撒，是罗马霸主的继承人，其帝国色彩与帝国色调相同。尽管这种优越性也适用于人类本身，赋予白人对每一个黑暗部落的理想统治权；除此之外，白色甚至还象征着快乐，因为在罗马人中，一块白色的石头标志着快乐的一天。尽管在其他凡人的同情和象征中，这种相同的色调也成为许多感人而高贵的事物的象征——新娘的纯真，年长的仁慈；尽管在美国的红种人中，授予贝壳白带是最深切的荣誉承诺。尽管在许多地区，白色象征着法官的貂皮的正义威严，并有助于乳白色骏马所牵引的国王和王后的日常状态；尽管即使在最庄严的宗教的更高奥秘中，它也被视为神圣无瑕和力量的象征；波斯火崇拜者将白色的叉状火焰视为祭坛上最神圣的东西；在希腊神话中，大天神本人化身为一头雪白的公牛。尽管对于高贵的易洛魁人来说，仲冬的神圣祭祀 白狗节是他们神学中迄今为止最神圣的节日，这个一尘不染、忠诚的生物被认为是他们可以派去的最纯洁的使者，带着他们每年忠诚的消息去见伟大的灵魂。尽管直接源自拉丁语的“白色”一词，但所有基督教牧师都将其神圣服装的一部分命名为“alb”或“束腰外衣”，穿在法衣下面。尽管在罗马信仰的神圣盛况中，白色是专门用来庆祝我们主的受难的。尽管在圣约翰的异象中，白袍被赐给了被救赎的人，四位和二十位长老穿着白衣站在白色的大宝座前，坐在那里的圣者也像羊毛一样洁白；然而，尽管所有这些累积起来的联想，无论是甜蜜的、尊贵的还是崇高的，在这种色调的最深处的想法中仍然潜伏着一种难以捉摸的东西，它比血液中令人恐惧的红色更能引起灵魂的恐慌。

This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object terrible in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds. Witness the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics; what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are? That ghastly whiteness it is which imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb gloating of their aspect. So that not the fierce-fanged tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white-shrouded bear or shark.*
正是这种难以捉摸的品质，导致了白色的想法，当脱离了更友善的联想，并与任何本身可怕的物体相结合时，就会将恐惧提升到最大程度。见证极地的白熊和热带的白鲨；除了它们光滑、片状的白色之外，还有什么使它们成为超凡的恐怖呢？正是这种可怕的白色给他们那无声的幸灾乐祸的面容带来了一种令人厌恶的温和，甚至比可怕更令人厌恶。因此，披着纹章外衣的凶猛獠牙的老虎，不会像白衣熊或鲨鱼那样让人胆怯。*

*With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who would fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not the whiteness, separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable hideousness of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness, it might be said, only rises from the circumstance, that the irresponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invested in the fleece of celestial innocence and love; and hence, by bringing together two such opposite emotions in our minds, the Polar bear frightens us with so unnatural a contrast. But even assuming all this to be true; yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have that intensified terror.
*关于北极熊，如果他想更深入地探讨这个问题，他可能会敦促说，单独考虑时，并不是它的白色加剧了这种畜生的令人难以忍受的丑陋；而是它的白色。因为，经过分析，可以说，这种高度的丑陋只是源于这种情况，即这种生物的不负责任的凶猛被投资于天国的纯真和爱的羊毛中。因此，通过将两种相反的情绪在我们的脑海中结合在一起，北极熊以如此不自然的对比让我们感到恐惧。但即使假设这一切都是真的；然而，如果不是因为白色，你不会有那么强烈的恐惧。

As for the white shark, the white gliding ghostliness of repose in that creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies with the same quality in the Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is most vividly hit by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish. The Romish mass for the dead begins with ‘Requiem eternam’ (eternal rest), whence REQUIEM denominating the mass itself, and any other funeral music. Now, in allusion to the white, silent stillness of death in this shark, and the mild deadliness of his habits, the French call him REQUIN.
至于白鲨，当以平常的心情观察时，这种生物身上的白色滑行幽灵般的休息，奇怪地与极地四足动物的相同品质相符。法国人给这种鱼起的名字最生动地体现了这种特性。罗马天主教的死者弥撒以“Requiem eternam”（永恒的安息）开始，由此“REQUIEM”命名弥撒本身以及任何其他葬礼音乐。现在，为了暗示这条鲨鱼的白色、寂静的死亡状态，以及它温和致命的习性，法国人称它为“REQUIN”。

Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in all imaginations? Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God’s great, unflattering laureate, Nature.*
想想你的信天翁，那些精神惊奇和苍白恐惧的云彩从何而来，那个白色的幽灵在所有的想象中航行？不是柯勒律治第一个施展这个咒语的；而是柯勒律治第一个施展这个咒语的。但上帝伟大的、不讨人喜欢的获奖者——大自然。*

*I remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth its vast archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrous flutterings and throbbings shook it. Though bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some king’s ghost in supernatural distress. Through its inexpressible, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God. As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of towns. Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney! never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I learned that goney was some seaman’s name for albatross. So that by no possibility could Coleridge’s wild Rhyme have had aught to do with those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon our deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to be an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.
*我记得我见过的第一只信天翁。当时正值一场持久的大风，南极海域的海水十分坚硬。我从楼下值班，登上了云层密布的甲板。在那里，我看到了一个华丽的、羽毛状的东西，洁白无瑕，长着一张漂亮的钩状罗马喙。它时不时地拱起巨大的大天使翅膀，仿佛要拥抱某个神圣的方舟。奇妙的颤动和悸动震动着它。虽然身体没有受伤，但它却发出了哭声，就像某个国王的鬼魂陷入超自然的痛苦一样。我想，通过它那难以言表的、奇怪的眼睛，我窥见了上帝的秘密。我像亚伯拉罕在天使面前屈膝；那白色的东西那么白，它的翅膀那么宽，在那些永远被放逐的水域里，我失去了传统和城镇的悲惨扭曲记忆。我久久地凝视着那奇异的羽毛。我无法说出，只能暗示当时掠过我身体的事情。但我终于醒了；转身问水手这是什么鸟。一个消失的人，他回答道。走吧！以前从未听说过这个名字；可以想象，岸上的人们对此一无所知！绝不！但过了一段时间，我了解到“goney”是一些海员对信天翁的名字。因此，当我在甲板上看到那只鸟时，我的神秘印象不可能与柯勒律治的狂野押韵有任何关系。因为当时我还没有读过这首童谣，也不知道那只鸟是信天翁。然而，我这么说，只是间接地让这首诗和这位诗人的崇高功绩更加耀眼。

I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this, that by a solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses; and these I have frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic fowl.
那么，我断言，在这只鸟奇妙的白色身体中，主要潜藏着咒语的秘密。更明显的事实是，根据术语的错误解释，有一种鸟被称为灰信天翁。我经常看到这些，但从未像看到南极鸟时那样激动。

But how had the mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and I will tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea. At last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern tally round its neck, with the ship’s time and place; and then letting it escape. But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was taken off in Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding, the invoking, and adoring cherubim!
但这神秘的东西是怎么被抓住的呢？别小声说出来，我会告诉你的；用奸诈的钩子和线，就像鸟儿在海上漂浮一样。最后，船长把它当成了邮递员。在它的脖子上系上一个刻有字母的皮革计数器，上面写着这艘船的时间和地点；然后让它逃脱。但我毫不怀疑，当白色的家禽飞去加入折叠翅膀、祈求和崇拜的基路伯时，为人类而设的皮革记数器在天堂中被取下了！

Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the White Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger, large-eyed, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a thousand monarchs in his lofty, overscorning carriage. He was the elected Xerxes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in those days were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies. At their flaming head he westward trooped it like that chosen star which every evening leads on the hosts of light. The flashing cascade of his mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him. A most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen, western world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god, bluff-browed and fearless as this mighty steed. Whether marching amid his aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly streamed it over the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his circumambient subjects browsing all around at the horizon, the White Steed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils reddening through his cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he presented himself, always to the bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe. Nor can it be questioned from what stands on legendary record of this noble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so clothed him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which, though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless terror.
在我们的西方编年史和印度传统中，最著名的是草原白马。一匹雄伟的乳白色战马，大眼睛，小脑袋，挺胸，高傲傲慢的姿态，带着千名君主的威严。他是由一大群野马选出的薛西斯一世，当时他的牧场只被落基山脉和阿勒格尼山脉围起来。在他们燃烧的头顶上，他向西行军，就像那颗被选中的星星，每天晚上都引领着光群。他的鬃毛闪闪发光，尾巴像彗星一样弯曲，为他提供了比金银锤更华丽的外壳。它是那个未堕落的西方世界中最具帝国主义和天使般色彩的幻影，在古老的捕猎者和猎人眼中，它复兴了原始时代的辉煌，当时亚当像神一样威严，像这匹强大的骏马一样，眉毛粗犷，无所畏惧。无论是在他的助手和元帅的带领下行进，无数的大队像俄亥俄州一样源源不断地穿过平原；或者，当周围的对象在地平线周围浏览时，白马飞驰地审视着他们，温暖的鼻孔因冷乳般的颜色而变红；无论他以什么方式展现自己，对于最勇敢的印第安人来说，他总是令人心生敬畏的对象。从这匹高贵的马的传说中也可以看出，主要是它精神上的洁白，使他披上了神圣的外衣。这种神圣性虽然让人崇拜，但同时也带来了某种无名的恐怖。

But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and Albatross.
但在其他情况下，这种白色失去了赋予白骏马和信天翁的所有附属品和奇怪的荣耀。

What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks the eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin! It is that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he bears. The Albino is as well made as other men—has no substantive deformity—and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be so?
是什么让白化病的男人如此奇特地令人厌恶，常常令人震惊，以至于有时他会被自己的亲友所憎恶！正是这种白色赋予了他，这一点从他的名字就可以看出。白化病人和其他男人一样长得好——没有实质性的畸形——然而，仅仅这一点无处不在的白色就让他比最丑陋的堕胎更奇怪地丑陋。为什么会这样呢？

Nor, in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not the less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this crowning attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, the gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice omitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect of that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of their faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the market-place!
在其他方面，大自然也同样以她最不明显但恶意较轻的机构，未能将可怕的这一最高属性纳入她的力量之中。从它白雪皑皑的一面来看，南海的幽灵被称为“白飑”。在一些历史实例中，人类恶意的艺术也没有忽略如此有力的辅助手段。当绝望的根特白兜帽戴着他们派系的雪白标志，在市场上谋杀了他们的法警时，它多么疯狂地增强了《弗鲁萨特》中那段话的效果！

Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of all mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering there; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of consternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. And from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap them. Nor even in our superstitions do we fail to throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in a milk-white fog—Yea, while these terrors seize us, let us add, that even the king of terrors, when personified by the evangelist, rides on his pallid horse.
在某些事情上，全人类共同的、遗传的经验也不能不见证这种色彩的超自然主义。毫无疑问，死者外表中最令观者感到震惊的一个明显特征，就是那里残留的大理石苍白。就好像那种苍白确实就像另一个世界的惊愕徽章，就像这里的致命恐惧一样。从死者的苍白中，我们借用了包裹他们的裹尸布的富有表现力的色调。即使在我们的迷信中，我们也会给我们的幻影披上同样的雪白斗篷。所有的鬼魂都在乳白色的雾气中升起——是的，虽然这些恐怖抓住了我们，但让我们补充一点，即使是恐怖之王，当被福音传道者化身时，也骑着他苍白的马。

Therefore, in his other moods, symbolize whatever grand or gracious thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.
因此，在他的其他情绪中，无论他愿意用白色来象征什么宏伟或仁慈的事物，没有人可以否认，在其最深刻的理想化意义中，它唤起了灵魂的特殊幻影。

But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to account for it? To analyse it, would seem impossible. Can we, then, by the citation of some of those instances wherein this thing of whiteness—though for the time either wholly or in great part stripped of all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful, but nevertheless, is found to exert over us the same sorcery, however modified;—can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us to the hidden cause we seek?
尽管这一点已得到确定，但凡人又该如何解释呢？要分析它，似乎是不可能的。那么，我们是否可以通过引用其中一些例子来证明这种白色的东西——尽管暂时完全或大部分剥夺了所有旨在赋予它任何可怕的直接联系，但尽管如此，我们发现它对我们使用同样的巫术，无论如何修改；——我们是否可以因此希望找到一些偶然的线索来引导我们找到我们所寻求的隐藏原因？

Let us try. But in a matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety, and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls. And though, doubtless, some at least of the imaginative impressions about to be presented may have been shared by most men, yet few perhaps were entirely conscious of them at the time, and therefore may not be able to recall them now.
让我们尝试一下。但在这样的事情上，微妙归微妙，没有想象力，没有人可以跟随别人进入这些大厅。尽管毫无疑问，至少有一些即将呈现的想象印象可能是大多数人所共有的，但当时可能很少有人完全意识到它们，因此现在可能无法回忆起它们。

Why to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely acquainted with the peculiar character of the day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, down-cast and hooded with new-fallen snow? Or, to the unread, unsophisticated Protestant of the Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a White Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?
为什么对于一个没有受过训练的理想主义者来说，他碰巧对当时的特殊情况不太熟悉，在想象中，在如此漫长、沉闷、无言的缓慢节奏的朝圣者游行中，只提到圣灵降临节元帅，他们垂头丧气，被新落下的雪覆盖？或者，对于美洲中部各州未读过书、不懂事的新教徒来说，为什么一提到白人修士或白人修女，就会在灵魂中唤起这样一个无眼的雕像？

Or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and kings (which will not wholly account for it) that makes the White Tower of London tell so much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American, than those other storied structures, its neighbors—the Byward Tower, or even the Bloody? And those sublimer towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, whence, in peculiar moods, comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of that name, while the thought of Virginia’s Blue Ridge is full of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess? Or why, irrespective of all latitudes and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a spectralness over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets? Or, to choose a wholly unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in reading the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does ‘the tall pale man’ of the Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides through the green of the groves—why is this phantom more terrible than all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?
或者，除了入狱的武士和国王的传统（这并不能完全解释这一点）之外，还有什么因素使得伦敦白塔比其他高层建筑、它的邻居更能在未曾旅行过的美国人的想象中讲述如此强烈的故事呢？ ——拜沃德塔，还是血腥塔？那些崇高的塔楼，新罕布什尔州的白山，从那里，在奇特的心情中，只要一提到这个名字，灵魂就会产生一种巨大的幽灵般的感觉，而弗吉尼亚州的蓝岭的想法则充满了一种柔和的、湿润的、遥远的梦幻？或者说，为什么无论纬度和经度如何，白海的名字都给幻想带来了如此幽灵般的感觉，而黄海的名字却让我们沉迷于波涛上漫长而漆黑的温和午后的凡人思想，然后是最华丽和最华丽的午后。还是最困的日落？或者，选择一个完全不真实的例子，纯粹是为了想象，为什么在阅读中欧古老的童话故事时，哈茨森林中的“高大苍白的人”会这样做，他一成不变的苍白在绿色的树林中悄无声息地滑行——为什么这个幽灵比布洛克斯堡所有的鸣叫小鬼更可怕？

Nor is it, altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling earthquakes; nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor the tearlessness of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight of her wide field of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop (like canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues of house-walls lying over upon each other, as a tossed pack of cards;—it is not these things alone which make tearless Lima, the strangest, saddest city thou can’st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; and there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro, this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerful greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the rigid pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.
也不完全是为了纪念她的大教堂倒塌地震；也没有她狂乱大海的踩踏；也不是从不下雨的干旱天空的无泪；也没有看到她宽阔的视野，倾斜的尖塔、扭曲的顶石和所有下垂的交叉口（就像停泊的舰队的倾斜码）；郊区的林荫道上，房屋的墙壁相互叠在一起，就像一堆乱七八糟的纸牌；——不仅仅是这些东西使利马成为你所见过的最奇怪、最悲伤的城市。因为利马已经戴上了白色面纱；她的悲惨的白色之中有一种更高的恐惧。像皮萨罗一样古老，这种白色使她的废墟永远崭新；不承认完全腐烂的令人愉悦的绿色；在她破碎的城墙上，中风的僵硬苍白蔓延开来，修复了自身的扭曲。

I know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness is not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of objects otherwise terrible; nor to the unimaginative mind is there aught of terror in those appearances whose awfulness to another mind almost solely consists in this one phenomenon, especially when exhibited under any form at all approaching to muteness or universality. What I mean by these two statements may perhaps be respectively elucidated by the following examples.
我知道，对于一般人来说，这种白色现象并不被认为是夸大可怕物体的恐怖的主要因素;对于缺乏想象力的人来说，那些表象对另一个人来说可怕之处几乎完全在于这一现象，尤其是当以任何接近沉默或普遍的形式表现出来时，这些表象并不令人恐惧。我所说的这两种说法的意思也许可以分别通过下面的例子来阐明。

First: The mariner, when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands, if by night he hear the roar of breakers, starts to vigilance, and feels just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculties; but under precisely similar circumstances, let him be called from his hammock to view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness—as if from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming round him, then he feels a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the lead assures him he is still off soundings; heart and helm they both go down; he never rests till blue water is under him again. Yet where is the mariner who will tell thee, ‘Sir, it was not so much the fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous whiteness that so stirred me?’
第一：航海者在接近外国海岸时，如果在夜间听到海浪的轰鸣声，就会开始警惕，并且感到的恐惧足以使他的所有能力都变得敏锐；但在完全相同的情况下，让他从吊床上被叫起来，看着他的船在乳白色的午夜海洋中航行——仿佛一群群梳毛的白熊从环绕的海岬在他周围游动，然后他会感到一种无声的、迷信的恐惧；白色水域笼罩的幽灵对他来说就像真正的鬼魂一样可怕。领队徒劳地向他保证他仍然没有进行探测。心脏和头盔都掉下来了；直到蓝色的海水再次淹没他，他才会休息。然而，那个会告诉你“先生，与其说是害怕撞到隐藏的岩石，不如说是害怕那可怕的白色让我如此激动？”的水手在哪里？

Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the continual sight of the snowhowdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except, perhaps, in the mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at such vast altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much the same is it with the backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig to break the fixed trance of whiteness. Not so the sailor, beholding the scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick of legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery, views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with its lean ice monuments and splintered crosses.
第二：对于秘鲁土著印第安人来说，持续不断地看到白雪皑皑的安第斯山脉并不会带来任何恐惧，也许只是想象在如此广阔的海拔上统治着永恒的霜冻荒凉，以及自然而然地认为这将是多么可怕在这种非人的孤独中迷失自己。西方的边远地区的人也有同样的情况，他们以相对冷漠的态度看待一片被白雪覆盖的无边无际的草原，没有树或树枝的影子来打破白色的固定恍惚状态。水手则不然，看到南极海域的风景；有时，借助冰霜和空气的力量，他会浑身发抖，半身失事，但他看到的不是彩虹为他的痛苦带来希望和安慰，而是看到一个无边无际的教堂墓地，上面有瘦削的冰碑，对他微笑。和破碎的十字架。

But thou sayest, methinks that white-lead chapter about whiteness is but a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou surrenderest to a hypo, Ishmael.
但你说，我认为关于白色的白铅章节只不过是一个胆怯的灵魂悬挂的白旗；你屈服于一个海波，以实玛利。

Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled in some peaceful valley of Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey—why is it that upon the sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him, so that he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal muskiness—why will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in phrensies of affright? There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black bisons of distant Oregon?
告诉我，为什么这匹强壮的年轻小马驹，在佛蒙特州某个宁静的山谷里生下小马驹，远离一切猛兽——为什么在阳光明媚的日子里，如果你在它身后抖一抖新鲜的水牛长袍，那么它甚至无法看到它，但只闻到它的野生动物麝香——为什么他会惊慌失措，喷鼻息，眼睛爆裂，惊恐地用爪子抓地？他不记得在他绿色的北方家乡有任何野生动物的刺伤，因此他闻到的奇怪的麝香味无法让他想起任何与以前的危险经历有关的事情；他，这匹新英格兰小马，怎么知道遥远俄勒冈州的黑野牛呢？

No; but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinct of the knowledge of the demonism in the world. Though thousands of miles from Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the rending, goring bison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the prairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.
不;但在这里，即使是一个哑巴畜生，你也能看到对世界上恶魔崇拜的了解的本能。尽管距离俄勒冈州有数千英里，但当他闻到那股野蛮的麝香时，那群撕裂、顶伤的野牛群就在眼前，就像草原上被遗弃的野马驹一样，此刻它们可能会被践踏成尘土。

Thus, then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the windrowed snows of prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking of that buffalo robe to the frightened colt!
因此，乳白色的海洋发出沉闷的波涛声；山上结霜的凄凉沙沙声；草原积雪荒凉的变化；所有这些，对于以实玛利来说，就像水牛长袍对于受惊的小马的震动一样！

Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mystic sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewhere those things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visible world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.
尽管两人都不知道那些神秘符号所暗示的无名之物到底藏在哪里；然而对我来说，就像对那匹小马一样，这些东西一定存在于某个地方。虽然这个可见的世界在许多方面似乎是在爱中形成的，但无形的领域却是在恐惧中形成的。

But not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and learned why it appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange and far more portentous—why, as we have seen, it is at once the most meaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the Christian’s Deity; and yet should be as it is, the intensifying agent in things the most appalling to mankind.
但我们还没有解开这种白色的魔咒，也没有了解为什么它对灵魂有如此大的吸引力；更奇怪、更不祥的是——为什么，正如我们所见，它同时是精神事物最有意义的象征，不，是基督徒神性的面纱；为什么它是精神事物的最有意义的象征？但事实应该如此，它是人类最可怕的事情的加剧剂。

Is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids and immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the thought of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky way? Or is it, that as in essence whiteness is not so much a colour as the visible absence of colour; and at the same time the concrete of all colours; is it for these reasons that there is such a dumb blankness, full of meaning, in a wide landscape of snows—a colourless, all-colour of atheism from which we shrink? And when we consider that other theory of the natural philosophers, that all other earthly hues—every stately or lovely emblazoning—the sweet tinges of sunset skies and woods; yea, and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the butterfly cheeks of young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not actually inherent in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all deified Nature absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover nothing but the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and consider that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the great principle of light, for ever remains white or colourless in itself, and if operating without medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even tulips and roses, with its own blank tinge—pondering all this, the palsied universe lies before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear coloured and colouring glasses upon their eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes himself blind at the monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him. And of all these things the Albino whale was the symbol. Wonder ye then at the fiery hunt?
是不是它的不确定性笼罩了宇宙无情的虚无和浩瀚，从而在我们看到银河系的白色深处时，从背后刺痛了我们的毁灭念头？或者说，从本质上来说，白色与其说是一种颜色，不如说是可见的颜色缺失；同时也是各种颜色的混凝土；正是因为这些原因，在广阔的雪景中才会出现这样一种愚蠢的空白，但却充满了意义——一种让我们退缩的无神论、五彩斑斓的无神论？当我们考虑自然哲学家的其他理论时，所有其他尘世的色彩——每一种庄严或可爱的装饰——日落天空和树林的甜美色调；是的，还有蝴蝶的镀金天鹅绒，还有年轻女孩的蝴蝶脸颊；所有这些都不过是狡猾的欺骗，实际上并不是物质本身固有的，而只是从外面造成的。因此，所有神化的自然绝对都像妓女一样，其诱惑除了内部的停尸房之外什么也没有。当我们进一步前进，并考虑到产生每一种色调的神秘化妆品时，光的伟大原理本身永远保持白色或无色，如果没有介质作用于物质，就会触及所有物体，甚至郁金香还有玫瑰，带着它自己的空白色调——思考这一切，瘫痪的宇宙在我们面前就像一个麻风病人；就像拉普兰任性的旅行者拒绝在眼睛上戴上有色眼镜一样，可怜的异教徒也盲目地凝视着包裹着他周围一切前景的巨大白色裹尸布。在所有这些事物中，白化鲸就是象征。那么你想知道这场激烈的狩猎吗？

Chapter 43
第43章

Hark!
听着！

‘HIST! Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?’
‘历史！你听到那声音了吗，卡巴科？

It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the scuttle-butt near the taffrail. In this manner, they passed the buckets to fill the scuttle-butt. Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed precincts of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle their feet. From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence, only broken by the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the unceasingly advancing keel.
那是中更。美丽的月光；海员们站在警戒线内，警戒线从腰部的一个淡水桶一直延伸到船尾栏杆附近的天窗桶。就这样，他们传递了水桶来填补流言蜚语。他们大部分时间都站在尾甲板的神圣区域上，小心翼翼地不说话，也不发出沙沙的脚步声。水桶在最深沉的寂静中从一只手移到另一只手，只有帆偶尔拍打的声音和不断前进的龙骨发出的稳定的嗡嗡声打破。

It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the cordon, whose post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a Cholo, the words above.
就在这个休息期间，警戒线中的一员阿尔奇（他的哨所位于后舱口附近）低声向他的邻居乔洛低声说了上面的话。

‘Hist! did you hear that noise, Cabaco?’
‘希斯特！你听到那声音了吗，卡巴科？

‘Take the bucket, will ye, Archy? what noise d’ye mean?’
“阿奇，把桶拿走吧？”你说的噪音是什么意思？

‘There it is again—under the hatches—don’t you hear it—a cough—it sounded like a cough.’
“又来了——在舱口下面——你没听到吗——咳嗽——听起来像咳嗽。”

‘Cough be damned! Pass along that return bucket.’
‘该死的咳嗽！把那个回水桶传过去。

‘There again—there it is!—it sounds like two or three sleepers turning over, now!’
“又来了——又来了！——听起来好像有两三个睡觉的人翻了身，现在！”

‘Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye? It’s the three soaked biscuits ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye—nothing else. Look to the bucket!’
‘卡兰巴！已经做到了，船友，你愿意吗？这就是你们晚餐吃的三块浸湿的饼干在你们体内翻来覆去的——没有别的。看看桶！

‘Say what ye will, shipmate; I’ve sharp ears.’
“随你便吧，船友；我的耳朵很敏锐。

‘Aye, you are the chap, ain’t ye, that heard the hum of the old Quakeress’s knitting-needles fifty miles at sea from Nantucket; you’re the chap.’
“是的，你就是那个在距楠塔基特岛五十英里的海上听到老贵格女教徒织针的嗡嗡声的人，不是吗？你就是那个家伙。

‘Grin away; we’ll see what turns up. Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tell Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that sort in the wind.’
‘笑笑；我们会看看会发生什么。听着，卡巴科，有人在后舱里，但在甲板上尚未被发现；我怀疑我们的老大亨也知道一些事情。有一天晨更时，我听到斯塔布告诉弗拉斯克，风中有类似的东西。

‘Tish! the bucket!’
‘蒂什！桶！

Chapter 44
第44章

The Chart.
图表。

Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table. Then seating himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace additional courses over spaces that before were blank. At intervals, he would refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down the seasons and places in which, on various former voyages of various ships, sperm whales had been captured or seen.
如果你在那天晚上发生暴风雨后跟随亚哈船长进入他的船舱，继他和他的船员们疯狂地批准他的目的之后，你会看到他走向横梁上的一个储物柜，拿出一大卷皱巴巴的纸。淡黄色的海图，将它们摊开在他面前的用螺丝固定的桌子上。然后他坐在它前面，你会看到他聚精会神地研究他眼前所见的各种线条和阴影。然后用缓慢而稳定的铅笔在之前空白的空间上画出额外的路线。每隔一段时间，他就会查阅身边成堆的旧航海日志，其中记录了在不同船只的不同航行中捕获或看到抹香鲸的季节和地点。

While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp suspended in chains over his head, continually rocked with the motion of the ship, and for ever threw shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his wrinkled brow, till it almost seemed that while he himself was marking out lines and courses on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also tracing lines and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.
当这样使用时，沉重的锡制灯用链子悬挂在他的头顶上，随着船的运动而不断摇晃，永远在他布满皱纹的额头上投射出移动的光芒和线条的阴影，直到他自己几乎在标记时皱纹图表上的线条和路线，一些看不见的铅笔也在他额头上深深标记的图表上描画线条和路线。

But it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of his cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts. Almost every night they were brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and others were substituted. For with the charts of all four oceans before him, Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.
但亚哈并不是在这个夜晚，在他孤独的小屋里思考他的海图。几乎每天晚上他们都会被带出来。几乎每天晚上，一些铅笔标记都会被擦掉，另一些则被替换。因为在他面前有四大洋的海图，亚哈正在迷宫般的洋流和漩涡中穿行，以期更确定地实现他灵魂中的偏执狂思想。

Now, to any one not fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans, it might seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped oceans of this planet. But not so did it seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides and currents; and thereby calculating the driftings of the sperm whale’s food; and, also, calling to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost approaching to certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or that ground in search of his prey.
现在，对于任何不完全熟悉利维坦之道的人来说，在这个星球的无环海洋中寻找一个孤独的生物似乎是一项荒唐且无望的任务。但亚哈却并不这么认为，因为他知道所有潮汐和洋流的规律。从而计算出抹香鲸食物的漂流情况；而且，还让人想起在特定纬度地区狩猎他的定期的、确定的季节；对于在这个或那个地方寻找猎物的最佳日期，他可以做出合理的猜测，几乎接近确定性。

So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning the periodicalness of the sperm whale’s resorting to given waters, that many hunters believe that, could he be closely observed and studied throughout the world; were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows. On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory charts of the sperm whale.*
事实上，关于抹香鲸诉诸特定水域的周期性的事实是如此确定，以至于许多猎人相信，可以在世界各地密切观察和研究它吗？如果仔细核对整个鲸鱼舰队一次航行的日志，那么就会发现抹香鲸的迁徙与鲱鱼群或燕子的飞行一致。根据这一暗示，人们尝试绘制出详细的抹香鲸迁徙图。*

*Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by an official circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of the National Observatory, Washington, April 16th, 1851. By that circular, it appears that precisely such a chart is in course of completion; and portions of it are presented in the circular. ‘This chart divides the ocean into districts of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of longitude; perpendicularly through each of which districts are twelve columns for the twelve months; and horizontally through each of which districts are three lines; one to show the number of days that have been spent in each month in every district, and the two others to show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been seen.’
*写完上述内容后，华盛顿国家天文台的莫里中尉于 1851 年 4 月 16 日发布的一份官方通告愉快地证实了这一说法。根据该通告，看来正是这样一张图表正在制作中。完成；其部分内容载于通函中。 “这张图表将海洋划分为纬度五度乘经度五度的区域；垂直穿过每个区域的十二根柱子代表十二个月；水平穿过每个区的是三条线；一个显示每个月在每个地区度过的天数，另外两个显示看到鲸鱼、抹香鲸或右鲸的天数。

Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, the sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct—say, rather, secret intelligence from the Deity—mostly swim in VEINS, as they are called; continuing their way along a given ocean-line with such undeviating exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any chart, with one tithe of such marvellous precision. Though, in these cases, the direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor’s parallel, and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own unavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary VEIN in which at these times he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width (more or less, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract); but never exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship’s mast-heads, when circumspectly gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that at particular seasons within that breadth and along that path, migrating whales may with great confidence be looked for.
此外，当从一个觅食地到另一个觅食地时，抹香鲸在某种绝对可靠的本能（更确切地说，来自神的秘密情报）的引导下，大多在静脉中游泳，正如它们所说的那样。沿着给定的海洋线继续航行，毫无偏差，以至于没有一艘船在任何海图上都以如此惊人的精确度航行在她的航线上。虽然，在这些情况下，任何一只鲸鱼所走的方向都是笔直的，就像测量员的平行线一样，尽管前进的路线被严格限制在它自己不可避免的笔直尾迹中，但据说在这些时候，他的任意脉络游泳，通常有几英里宽（或多或少，取决于静脉的扩张或收缩）；但当鲸鱼船小心翼翼地沿着这个神奇的区域滑行时，它的视野永远不会超过鲸鱼桅杆头的视野。总而言之，在该宽度内的特定季节，沿着该路径，可以很有信心地寻找迁徙的鲸鱼。

And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his art, so place and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly without prospect of a meeting.
因此，亚哈不仅在有确凿证据的时间，在众所周知的单独的觅食地，才有希望遇到他的猎物；而且，在不同的觅食地，亚哈也有希望遇到他的猎物。但是，在穿越这些场地之间最宽阔的水域时，他可以凭借自己的技巧，在途中安排好自己的时间和地点，以免完全没有见面的可能性。

There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle his delirious but still methodical scheme. But not so in the reality, perhaps. Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons for particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the herds which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year, say, will turn out to be identically the same with those that were found there the preceding season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable instances where the contrary of this has proved true. In general, the same remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to the solitaries and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales. So that though Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on the Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the Pequod to visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season, she would infallibly encounter him there. So, too, with some other feeding grounds, where he had at times revealed himself. But all these seemed only his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of prolonged abode. And where Ahab’s chances of accomplishing his object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular set time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next thing to a certainty. That particular set time and place were conjoined in the one technical phrase—the Season-on-the-Line. For there and then, for several consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac. There it was, too, that most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the waves were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance. But in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering vigilance with which Ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfaltering hunt, he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering it might be to those hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.
乍一看，有一种情况似乎与他的疯狂但仍然有条不紊的计划纠缠在一起。但现实也许并非如此。虽然群居的抹香鲸在特定的地点有其固定的季节，但总的来说，你不能断定今年在某个纬度或经度出没的抹香鲸群会与在那里发现的抹香鲸群完全相同。上一季；尽管有一些特殊且不容置疑的事例证明事实与此相反。一般来说，同样的说法，只是在较小的范围内，适用于成熟、老年抹香鲸中的独居者和隐士。因此，尽管前一年曾在印度洋的塞舌尔陆地或日本海岸的火山湾等地看到过莫比迪克；但事实并非如此，如果裴廓德号在随后的相应季节访问这些地点中的任何一个，她一定会在那里遇到他。其他一些觅食地也是如此，他有时也会在那里露出自己的面目。但可以说，这一切似乎只是他的临时停留地和海滨旅馆，而不是他长期居住的地方。迄今为止，在谈到亚哈完成他的目标的机会时，只提到了他的任何路边的、先行的、额外的前景，在特定的设定时间或地点达到之前，那时所有的可能性都将变成概率，并且正如亚哈深情地想的那样，每一种可能性都会成为确定的事情。那个特定的时间和地点被结合在一个技术短语中——“Season-on-the-Line”。 就在那时，连续几年，莫比迪克被周期性地描述为在这些水域中徘徊一段时间，就像太阳在其一年一度的运行中，在黄道十二宫的任何一个星座中徘徊一段预计的时间间隔一样。大多数与白鲸的致命遭遇也发生在那里。在那里，他的事迹被传为佳话；还有一个悲惨的地方，那个偏执的老人找到了他复仇的可怕动机。但是，亚哈以谨慎的全面性和毫不犹豫的警惕性，把他沉思的灵魂投入到这场坚定不移的狩猎中，他不允许自己把所有的希望都寄托在上述一个最重要的事实上，无论这些希望对这些希望来说是多么美好。在他的誓言的失眠中，他也无法安抚自己不安的心，从而推迟所有介入的探索。

Now, the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the Season-on-the-Line. No possible endeavor then could enable her commander to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season. Yet the premature hour of the Pequod’s sailing had, perhaps, been correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of things. Because, an interval of three hundred and sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt; if by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any other waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas, Nor’-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon, might blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod’s circumnavigating wake.
现在，“裴阔德”号在线上季节一开始就从楠塔基特岛启航。当时，无论怎样的努力都无法使她的指挥官能够向南航行，翻越合恩角，然后沿着纬度六十度到达赤道太平洋，及时巡航到那里。因此，他必须等待下一个赛季。然而，亚哈鉴于事情的复杂性，选择了过早启航的时机，也许是正确的。因为，在他面前，有三百六十五个昼夜的间隔；在这段时间里，他不会不耐烦地待在岸上，而是会花在各种狩猎上。如果白鲸在远离其定期觅食地的海域度假时，偶然会在波斯湾、孟加拉湾、中国海或任何其他有白鲸出没的水域中抬起皱巴巴的眉头，种族。因此，季风、潘帕斯草原、西北地区、哈马坦、贸易；除了莱万特风和西蒙风之外，任何风都可能将莫比迪克吹进裴阔德号环绕航行的迂回曲折的世界圈中。

But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of individual recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but be unmistakable. And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries—tallied him, and shall he escape? His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost sheep’s ear! And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till a weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of the deck he would seek to recover his strength. Ah, God! what trances of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved revengeful desire. He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own bloody nails in his palms.
但承认这一切；然而，谨慎而冷静地看待，这似乎不是一个疯狂的想法；在广阔无边的海洋中，即使遇到一头孤独的鲸鱼，也应该被认为能够得到他的猎人的个体识别，即使是君士坦丁堡拥挤的大道上的白胡子穆夫提？是的。因为莫比·迪克奇特的雪白额头和雪白的驼峰，不可能不被认错。难道我没有统计过鲸鱼吗？亚哈会自言自语道，因为在仔细研究海图直到午夜过后很久之后，他又会陷入沉思——统计了他，他会逃脱吗？他宽阔的鳍是无聊的，像丢失的羊耳朵一样呈扇形！在这里，他疯狂的思绪会气喘吁吁地奔跑；直到一种沉思的疲倦和无力袭上他的心头。他会在露天甲板上寻求恢复体力的方法。啊，天啊！一个被未实现的复仇欲望所吞噬的人，要忍受怎样的折磨？他睡觉时双手紧握；醒来时发现自己的手掌里沾满了血。

Often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vivid dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense thoughts through the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and whirled them round and round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing of his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes the case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its base, and a chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and lightnings shot up, and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among them; when this hell in himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be heard through the ship; and with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his state room, as though escaping from a bed that was on fire. Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the unsuppressable symptoms of some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve, were but the plainest tokens of its intensity. For, at such times, crazy Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this Ahab that had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused him to burst from it in horror again. The latter was the eternal, living principle or soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching contiguity of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no longer an integral. But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with the soul, therefore it must have been that, in Ahab’s case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies to his one supreme purpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of will, forced itself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed, independent being of its own. Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the common vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the unbidden and unfathered birth. Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living light, to be sure, but without an object to colour, and therefore a blankness in itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature in thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature he creates.
通常，当他被夜晚的令人疲惫不堪的生动梦境逼迫离开吊床时，这些梦境又恢复了他白天的强烈思想，在精神的碰撞中继续这些思想，并在他炽热的大脑中旋转着它们，一圈又一圈，一圈又一圈，直到他生命部位的跳动变成了难以忍受的痛苦。有时，当他体内的这些精神痛苦将他的身体从根基上抬起来时，他身上似乎打开了一道裂缝，分叉的火焰和闪电从裂缝中喷涌而出，被诅咒的恶魔召唤他跳入其中。当他内心的地狱在他脚下张开大口时，船上就会传来一声疯狂的呼喊。亚哈会瞪着眼睛冲出他的房间，就像从着火的床上逃出来一样。然而，这些或许并不是某些潜在弱点的不可抑制的症状，或者是对自己决心的恐惧，而只是其强度的最明显的表征。因为，在这种时候，疯狂的亚哈，这个诡计多端、不屈不挠的白鲸猎手；这个走向吊床的亚哈并不是让他再次从吊床上惊恐地跳出来的原因。后者是他内心永恒的、活生生的原则或灵魂。在睡眠中，它暂时与表征心灵分离，而在其他时候，表征心灵则将其用作其外在载体或代理人，它自发地寻求逃离疯狂事物的灼热邻接，而此时，它并不在其中。更长的积分。 但是，由于除非与灵魂联合，否则心灵不存在，因此，就亚哈而言，必然是为了他的一个最高目的而放弃他所有的思想和幻想；这个目的，以其纯粹的顽固意志，迫使自己对抗诸神和魔鬼，成为一种自以为是的、独立的存在。不仅如此，它还可以残酷地生存和燃烧，而与之相连的共同生命力却从不请自来和无父无母的诞生中惊恐地逃走了。因此，当亚哈似乎从他的房间冲出时，从肉眼中发出的饱受折磨的灵魂，暂时只是一个空虚的东西，一个无形的梦游生物，一束活生生的光，当然，但没有对象颜色，因此本身就是一片空白。上帝保佑你，老人，你的思想在你体内创造了一个生物；他的强烈思考使他成为普罗米修斯；秃鹰永远以那颗心为食；那只秃鹫正是他所创造的生物。

Chapter 45
第45章

The Affidavit.
宣誓书。

So far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed, as indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in its earlier part, is as important a one as will be found in this volume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still further and more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood, and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of the entire subject may induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main points of this affair.
就这本书中可能有的叙述而言；事实上，由于间接触及抹香鲸习性中的一两个非常有趣和好奇的细节，前一章的前半部分与本书中的章节一样重要。但是，为了充分理解它的主要内容，还需要更进一步、更熟悉地加以阐述，此外，还要消除某些人对整个主题的深刻无知可能导致的对自然真实性的怀疑。讲述了这起事件的要点。

I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of items, practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these citations, I take it—the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of itself.
我不关心有条不紊地完成这部分任务；但应满足于通过单独引用我作为捕鲸人实际上或可靠地了解的项目来产生所需的印象；从这些引文中，我认为——所针对的结论自然会随之而来。

First: I have personally known three instances where a whale, after receiving a harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an interval (in one instance of three years), has been again struck by the same hand, and slain; when the two irons, both marked by the same private cypher, have been taken from the body. In the instance where three years intervened between the flinging of the two harpoons; and I think it may have been something more than that; the man who darted them happening, in the interval, to go in a trading ship on a voyage to Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery party, and penetrated far into the interior, where he travelled for a period of nearly two years, often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous miasmas, with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart of unknown regions. Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have been on its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe, brushing with its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose. This man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished the other. I say I, myself, have known three instances similar to this; that is in two of them I saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack, saw the two irons with the respective marks cut in them, afterwards taken from the dead fish. In the three-year instance, it so fell out that I was in the boat both times, first and last, and the last time distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale’s eye, which I had observed there three years previous. I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that. Here are three instances, then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard of many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no good ground to impeach.
第一：我个人就知道三起鲸鱼在收到鱼叉后完全逃脱的例子；过了一段时间（有一次是三年），又被同一只手击中并被杀；当两根带有相同私人密码的熨斗被从尸体上取出时。在两支鱼叉的投掷之间间隔了三年的情况下；我认为事情可能不止于此；那个带他们去非洲的人，在这段时间里，乘一艘商船去非洲航行，在那里上岸，加入了一个探索队，深入内陆，他在那里旅行了近两年，经常受到蛇、野蛮人、老虎、毒瘴气的威胁，以及在未知地区的中心徘徊时遇到的所有其他常见危险。与此同时，他击中的那条鲸鱼一定也在旅行中；毫无疑问，它已经三次环绕地球，用侧翼掠过非洲的所有海岸。但没有任何目的。这个人和这条鲸鱼再次相遇，一方战胜了另一方。我说我自己就知道三个类似的例子；我在其中两处看到了鲸鱼的撞击；在第二次攻击时，我看到了两个烙铁，上面刻有各自的标记，是后来从死鱼上取下来的。在三年的时间里，结果很糟糕，我两次都在船上，第一次和最后一次，最后一次清楚地认出了鲸鱼眼睛下有一种特殊的巨大鼹鼠，这是我三年前在那里观察到的。我说的是三年，但我很确定它不止于此。 那么，以下是我个人所知道的三个例子；但我从一些人那里听说过许多其他事例，他们的真实性没有充分的理由可以弹劾。

Secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale Fishery, however ignorant the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several memorable historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been at distant times and places popularly cognisable. Why such a whale became thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar in that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly valuable oil. No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences of the fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about such a whale as there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most fishermen were content to recognise him by merely touching their tarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by them on the sea, without seeking to cultivate a more intimate acquaintance. Like some poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, they make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, lest if they pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump for their presumption.
其次：在抹香鲸渔业中，众所周知，无论岸上的世界对它有多无知，有几个令人难忘的历史实例，海洋中的特定鲸鱼在遥远的时间和地点曾被普遍认知。为什么这样的鲸鱼会出现这样的标记，并不完全是因为它与其他鲸鱼的身体特征不同。因为无论鲸鱼在这方面多么奇特，他们很快就会杀死他，并将他熬成一种特别有价值的油，从而结束了他的奇特之处。不：原因是这样的：从渔业的致命经历来看，这种鲸鱼就像里纳尔多·里纳尔迪尼一样，被笼罩在一种可怕的危险声望中，以至于大多数渔民满足于在他出现时仅仅通过触摸他们的防水布来认出他。被发现在海上闲逛，而不是寻求建立更亲密的关系。就像一些岸上的可怜虫碰巧认识了一位暴躁的伟人一样，他们在街上远远地、不引人注意地向他致意，唯恐如果他们进一步追寻这个熟人，他们可能会因为自己的狂妄而受到严厉的打击。

But not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individual celebrity—Nay, you may call it an ocean-wide renown; not only was he famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death, but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges, and distinctions of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar. Was it not so, O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so long did’st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack! thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of the Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan, whose lofty jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale, marked like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back! In plain prose, here are four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean History as Marius or Sylla to the classic scholar.
但这些著名的鲸鱼不仅每只都享有很高的个人知名度——不，你可以称其为全洋的声誉；他不仅生前出名，死后在船首楼的故事中永垂不朽，而且他还被承认拥有一个名字的所有权利、特权和区别。确实有与冈比西斯或凯撒一样多的名字。难道不是这样吗，东帝汶啊汤姆！你是著名的利维坦，像冰山一样伤痕累累，长期潜伏在同名的东方海峡中，在翁贝的棕榈海滩上经常可以看到它的喷口？难道不是这样吗，新西兰杰克！你害怕所有在纹身之地附近穿越的巡洋舰吗？难道不是这样吗，莫尔坎啊！日本国王，据说他的喷气式飞机有时在天空中呈现出雪白十字架的外观？难道不是这样吗，哦唐·米格尔！你这头奇利亚鲸鱼，背上像一只古老的乌龟一样，刻着神秘的象形文字！用简单的散文来说，这里有四头鲸鱼，它们被鲸类历史的学生所熟知，就像经典学者所熟知的马吕斯或西拉一样。

But this is not all. New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel, after at various times creating great havoc among the boats of different vessels, were finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and killed by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that express object as much in view, as in setting out through the Narragansett Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture that notorious murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the Indian King Philip.
但这并不是全部。新西兰汤姆·米格尔和唐·米格尔在不同时期对不同船只的船只造成了巨大破坏后，最终被英勇的捕鲸船长系统地追捕、追捕和杀害，他们带着这个明确的目标抛锚了就像出发穿过纳拉甘塞特森林时一样，老巴特勒船长一心想抓住那个臭名昭著的凶残野蛮人安纳旺，他是印度国王菲利普的头号战士。

I do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make mention of one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in printed form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the whole story of the White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. For this is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires full as much bolstering as error. So ignorant are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpable wonders of the world, that without some hints touching the plain facts, historical and otherwise, of the fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a monstrous fable, or still worse and more detestable, a hideous and intolerable allegory.
我不知道在哪里可以找到比这里更好的地方，来提及一两件事，这对我来说似乎很重要，因为以印刷形式在各方面确立了白鲸整个故事的合理性，更特别的是灾难。因为这是令人沮丧的例子之一，真理需要与错误一样多的支持。大多数陆地居民对世界上一些最简单、最明显的奇迹是如此无知，以至于如果没有一些涉及渔业的简单事实、历史事实和其他事实的暗示，他们可能会将白鲸视为一个可怕的寓言，或者更糟的是，更可憎的是，这是一个可怕的、令人难以忍受的寓言。

First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas of the general perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a fixed, vivid conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they recur. One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters and deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home, however transient and immediately forgotten that record. Do you suppose that that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the whale-line off the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by the sounding leviathan—do you suppose that that poor fellow’s name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will read to-morrow at your breakfast? No: because the mails are very irregular between here and New Guinea. In fact, did you ever hear what might be called regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea? Yet I tell you that upon one particular voyage which I made to the Pacific, among many others we spoke thirty different ships, every one of which had had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three that had each lost a boat’s crew. For God’s sake, be economical with your lamps and candles! not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man’s blood was spilled for it.
第一：虽然大多数人对大型渔业的普遍危险有一些模糊的、一闪而过的想法，但他们对这些危险及其发生的频率没有一个固定的、生动的概念。原因之一或许是，在渔业实际发生的灾难和伤亡中，没有百分之一的人能在国内找到公开记录，无论该记录多么短暂且立即被遗忘。你是否认为那个可怜的家伙，此时此刻可能被新几内亚海岸附近的鲸鱼线捕获，正被声音巨大的利维坦带到海底——你认为那个可怜的家伙的名字会被命名吗？出现在你明天早餐时会读到的报纸讣告中吗？不：因为这里和新几内亚之间的邮件非常不规则。事实上，您是否曾经直接或间接从新几内亚听到过所谓的常规新闻？然而我告诉你，在我前往太平洋的一次特定航行中，我们与三十艘不同的船只进行了交谈，每一艘都曾被鲸鱼杀死，其中一些不止一头，每艘都损失了三艘船员。看在上帝的份上，节约用灯和蜡烛吧！你燃烧的不是一加仑，但至少有人为此流了一滴血。

Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is an enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness, they have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I declare upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses, when he wrote the history of the plagues of Egypt.
其次：岸上的人们确实有一些不确定的想法，认为鲸鱼是一种具有巨大力量的巨大生物；但我发现，当向他们讲述这种双重巨大的一些具体例子时，他们对我的滑稽性表示了极大的赞扬。我向自己的灵魂宣告，当摩西写下埃及瘟疫的历史时，我并没有比他更多的想法来开玩笑。

But fortunately the special point I here seek can be established upon testimony entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The Sperm Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciously malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy, and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale HAS done it.
但幸运的是，我在这里寻求的特殊观点可以建立在完全独立于我自己的证词之上。要点是这样的：在某些情况下，抹香鲸是足够强大、有洞察力并且具有明智的恶意的，比如直接有先见之明地刺入、彻底摧毁并击沉一艘大船；更重要的是，抹香鲸已经做到了。

First: In the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket, was cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered her boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere long, several of the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon the ship. Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that in less than ‘ten minutes’ she settled down and fell over. Not a surviving plank of her has been seen since. After the severest exposure, part of the crew reached the land in their boats. Being returned home at last, Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and breakers; for the second time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since. At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of Nantucket. I have seen Owen Chace, who was chief mate of the Essex at the time of the tragedy; I have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have conversed with his son; and all this within a few miles of the scene of the catastrophe.*
第一：1820年，来自楠塔基特岛的波拉德船长的埃塞克斯号轮船正在太平洋上航行。有一天，她看到了喷水口，于是放下小船，去追赶一群抹香鲸。不久，几头鲸鱼受伤了。突然，一头巨大的鲸鱼从船上逃了出来，从浅滩上冲了出来，直扑到了船上。他用额头猛撞她的船体，将她猛烈地推入水中，不到“十分钟”，她就安定下来并摔倒了。从那以后，她的木板就再也没有出现过。在经历了最严重的暴露之后，部分船员乘船到达了陆地。终于回到家后，波拉德船长再次率领另一艘船驶向太平洋，但诸神再次让他在未知的岩石和碎浪上遭遇海难；他的船第二次彻底迷失了，他立刻放弃了大海，从此以后再也没有尝试过它。如今，波拉德船长是楠塔基特岛的居民。我见过欧文·查斯，悲剧发生时他是埃塞克斯号的大副。我读过他平实而忠实的叙述；我和他的儿子谈过；而这一切都在距离灾难现场几英里的范围内。*

*The following are extracts from Chace’s narrative: ‘Every fact seemed to warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which directed his operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at a short interval between them, both of which, according to their direction, were calculated to do us the most injury, by being made ahead, and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the shock; to effect which, the exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary. His aspect was most horrible, and such as indicated resentment and fury. He came directly from the shoal which we had just before entered, and in which we had struck three of his companions, as if fired with revenge for their sufferings.’ Again: ‘At all events, the whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own eyes, and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided, calculating mischief, on the part of the whale (many of which impressions I cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my opinion.’
*以下是切斯叙述的摘录：“每一个事实似乎都让我得出这样的结论：他的行动绝非偶然；”他对船进行了两次攻击，每次攻击之间的间隔很短，根据他们的方向，这两次攻击都被计算为对我们造成最大的伤害，因为他们都在前面，从而将两个物体的速度结合起来震惊;为了实现这一目标，他所采取的精确行动是必要的。他的神情极其可怕，并且表现出怨恨和愤怒。他是直接从我们刚刚进入的浅滩来的，我们在那里袭击了他的三个同伴，好像是为他们所受的苦难报仇。”再说一次：“无论如何，整个情况加在一起，都发生在之前我自己的眼睛，当时在我的脑海中产生了鲸鱼决定性的、精心策划的恶作剧的印象（其中许多印象我现在记不清了），使我对我的观点是正确的感到满意.'

Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during a black night an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any hospitable shore. ‘The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon hidden rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful contemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment’s thought; the dismal looking wreck, and THE HORRID ASPECT AND REVENGE OF THE WHALE, wholly engrossed my reflections, until day again made its appearance.’
以下是他在漆黑的夜晚下船一段时间后的反思，当时他对一艘敞开的船几乎绝望，无法到达任何友善的海岸。 “黑暗的海洋和汹涌的海水算不了什么；害怕被可怕的风暴吞没，或者撞到隐藏的岩石上，以及所有其他令人恐惧的普通主题，似乎几乎没有资格思考片刻。看起来令人沮丧的沉船，以及鲸鱼的可怕景象和复仇，完全吸引了我的思考，直到天再次出现。

In another place—p. 45,—he speaks of ‘THE MYSTERIOUS AND MORTAL ATTACK OF THE ANIMAL.’
在另一个地方——p。 45，他谈到“动物神秘而致命的攻击”。

Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter, though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it.
其次：1807年，同样位于楠塔基特岛的联合号船也因类似的事件而在亚速尔群岛完全迷失，但我从未有机会遇到这场灾难的真实细节，尽管我时不时地从捕鲸者那里听说过随意暗示它。

Thirdly: Some eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J—-, then commanding an American sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be dining with a party of whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Conversation turning upon whales, the Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strength ascribed to them by the professional gentlemen present. He peremptorily denied for example, that any whale could so smite his stout sloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Very good; but there is more coming. Some weeks after, the Commodore set sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments’ confidential business with him. That business consisted in fetching the Commodore’s craft such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest port to heave down and repair. I am not superstitious, but I consider the Commodore’s interview with that whale as providential. Was not Saul of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a similar fright? I tell you, the sperm whale will stand no nonsense.
第三：大约十八、二十年前，当时指挥一艘美国一级单桅帆船的J准将，碰巧在桑威奇欧胡岛港口的一艘楠塔基特岛船上与一群捕鲸船长一起用餐。岛屿。谈话转向鲸鱼，准将很高兴对在场的专业绅士们赋予鲸鱼的惊人力量表示怀疑。例如，他断然否认任何鲸鱼都可以重击他那艘坚固的战舰，导致她漏出一顶针那么多的东西。非常好;但还会有更多的事情发生。几周后，准将号驾驶这艘坚不可摧的飞船启航前往瓦尔帕莱索。但他在途中被一头肥胖的抹香鲸拦住了，它请求与他进行一些保密的事情。这项工作包括将准将的飞船重重地拖上来，在所有泵都运转的情况下，他直接前往最近的港口进行放下和修理。我并不迷信，但我认为准将对那头鲸鱼的采访是上天的安排。大数的扫罗不是也因类似的恐惧而从不信中转变过来吗？我告诉你，抹香鲸是不会忍受胡言乱语的。

I will now refer you to Langsdorff’s Voyages for a little circumstance in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof. Langsdorff, you must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern’s famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century. Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter:
现在，我将向您推荐朗斯多夫的《航行》，以了解一些对本文作者来说特别有趣的小情况。顺便说一下，你一定知道，朗斯多夫曾参加过本世纪初俄罗斯海军上将克鲁森斯顿著名的发现探险队。朗斯多夫船长因此开始了他的第十七章：

‘By the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day we were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weather was very clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it was not till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up. An uncommon large whale, the body of which was larger than the ship itself, lay almost at the surface of the water, but was not perceived by any one on board till the moment when the ship, which was in full sail, was almost upon him, so that it was impossible to prevent its striking against him. We were thus placed in the most imminent danger, as this gigantic creature, setting up its back, raised the ship three feet at least out of the water. The masts reeled, and the sails fell altogether, while we who were below all sprang instantly upon the deck, concluding that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we saw the monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity. Captain D’Wolf applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily it had escaped entirely uninjured.’
“到了五月十三日，我们的船就准备好启航了，第二天我们就出海了，前往奥乔特什。天气晴朗晴朗，但冷得令人难以忍受，我们不得不穿上皮衣。有几天，风很小。直到十九号，才刮起了西北大风。一条不寻常的大鲸鱼，它的身体比船本身还大，几乎躺在水面上，但直到满帆的船快要靠岸的时候，船上的任何人都没有发现。以至于无法阻止它对他的攻击。因此，我们处于最迫在眉睫的危险之中，因为这个巨大的生物，抬起它的背部，将船至少抬离水面三英尺。桅杆摇晃，船帆完全落下，而我们这些在下面的人立即跳到甲板上，断定我们撞到了一块岩石上。相反，我们看到怪物以最大的严肃和庄严的姿态扬帆离去。德沃尔夫船长立即对泵进行检查，以检查该船是否因震动而受到任何损坏，但我们很高兴地发现它完全没有受伤。

Now, the Captain D’Wolf here alluded to as commanding the ship in question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life of unusual adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of Dorchester near Boston. I have the honour of being a nephew of his. I have particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff. He substantiates every word. The ship, however, was by no means a large one: a Russian craft built on the Siberian coast, and purchased by my uncle after bartering away the vessel in which he sailed from home.
现在，这里提到的指挥这艘船的德沃尔夫船长是一位新英格兰人，在作为船长经历了漫长的不寻常冒险之后，今天居住在波士顿附近的多切斯特村。我有幸成为他的侄子。我特别就朗斯多夫的这段话向他询问过。他证实每一个字。然而，这艘船绝不是一艘大船：一艘在西伯利亚海岸建造的俄罗斯船只，是我叔叔用他从家乡航行的船只交换后购买的。

In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned adventure, so full, too, of honest wonders—the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one of ancient Dampier’s old chums—I found a little matter set down so like that just quoted from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a corroborative example, if such be needed.
在那本充满男子气概的老式冒险书中，也充满了诚实的奇迹——古代丹皮尔的老朋友之一莱昂内尔·瓦弗的航行——我发现了一段小事，就像刚才引用朗斯多夫的话一样，如果需要的话，我忍不住在这里插入一个佐证的例子。

Lionel, it seems, was on his way to ‘John Ferdinando,’ as he calls the modern Juan Fernandes. ‘In our way thither,’ he says, ‘about four o’clock in the morning, when we were about one hundred and fifty leagues from the Main of America, our ship felt a terrible shock, which put our men in such consternation that they could hardly tell where they were or what to think; but every one began to prepare for death. And, indeed, the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for granted the ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a little over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground. …. The suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and several of the men were shaken out of their hammocks. Captain Davis, who lay with his head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!’ Lionel then goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate the imputation by stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do great mischief along the Spanish land. But I should not much wonder if, in the darkness of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after all caused by an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.
莱昂内尔似乎正在走向“约翰·费迪南多”（他称之为现代胡安·费尔南德斯）。 “在我们去那里的路上，”他说，“大约凌晨四点，当我们距离美洲大陆大约一百五十英里时，我们的船感到了可怕的震动，这让我们的人惊慌失措，以至于他们几乎不知道自己在哪里，也不知道在想什么；但每个人都开始为死亡做好准备。事实上，这次震动是如此突然和猛烈，我们理所当然地认为船撞到了岩石上。但当惊讶稍稍过去后，我们抛下铅，探了探，但没有发现任何根据。 ……突如其来的震动让马车上的枪猛地跳了起来，几个人被从吊床上震了起来。戴维斯船长头顶着枪躺在地上，被扔出了他的船舱！”莱昂内尔接着将这次冲击归咎于地震，并且似乎通过说大约在那个时间的某个地方发生了一场大地震来证实这一推断，实际上在西班牙土地上造成了巨大的危害。但我不应该太多地怀疑，在凌晨的黑暗中，震动到底是不是由一只看不见的鲸鱼从下面垂直撞击船体引起的。

I might proceed with several more examples, one way or another known to me, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In more than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing boats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength, let me say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to a running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a horse walks off with a cart. Again, it is very often observed that, if the sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts, not so often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of destruction to his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent indication of his character, that upon being attacked he will frequently open his mouth, and retain it in that dread expansion for several consecutive minutes. But I must be content with only one more and a concluding illustration; a remarkable and most significant one, by which you will not fail to see, that not only is the most marvellous event in this book corroborated by plain facts of the present day, but that these marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions of the ages; so that for the millionth time we say amen with Solomon—Verily there is nothing new under the sun.
我可能会继续以我所知的方式再举几个例子，说明抹香鲸有时的强大力量和恶意。在不止一次的例子中，他不仅将袭击的船只追回自己的船上，而且还追击船只本身，并长期承受着从甲板上向他投掷的所有长矛。英国的 Pusie Hall 号船就讲述了一个关于这个问题的故事。至于他的力量，我要说的是，有这样的例子：在风平浪静时，连在奔跑的抹香鲸身上的绳子被转移到船上，并固定在那里。鲸鱼拖着巨大的船体在水中前进，就像一匹马推着一辆马车走开一样。再次，人们经常观察到，如果抹香鲸一旦被击中，有时间重新振作起来，那么它的行动通常不会是盲目的愤怒，而是会故意、蓄意地毁灭它的追捕者；当他受到攻击时，他会经常张开嘴，并连续几分钟保持那种可怕的扩张状态，这也充分表明了他的性格。但我必须满足于仅再一个和一个结论性的说明；这是一个非凡且最重要的事件，通过它，你不会看不到，这本书中最奇妙的事件不仅得到了当今显而易见的事实的证实，而且这些奇迹（像所有奇迹一样）仅仅是历史的重复。年龄；因此，我们第一百万次和所罗门一起说阿门——日光之下确实无新事。

In the sixth Christian century lived Procopius, a Christian magistrate of Constantinople, in the days when Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius general. As many know, he wrote the history of his own times, a work every way of uncommon value. By the best authorities, he has always been considered a most trustworthy and unexaggerating historian, except in some one or two particulars, not at all affecting the matter presently to be mentioned.
公元六世纪，君士坦丁堡的基督教长官普罗科皮乌斯（Procopius）生活在查士丁尼皇帝和贝利撒留将军的时代。正如许多人所知，他书写了他那个时代的历史，一部具有非凡价值的著作。最优秀的权威人士一直认为他是一位最值得信赖、最毫不夸张的历史学家，除了一两个细节之外，完全不影响现在要提到的事情。

Now, in this history of his, Procopius mentions that, during the term of his prefecture at Constantinople, a great sea-monster was captured in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of Marmora, after having destroyed vessels at intervals in those waters for a period of more than fifty years. A fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be gainsaid. Nor is there any reason it should be. Of what precise species this sea-monster was, is not mentioned. But as he destroyed ships, as well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am strongly inclined to think a sperm whale. And I will tell you why. For a long time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it. Even now I am certain that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the present constitution of things, a place for his habitual gregarious resort. But further investigations have recently proved to me, that in modern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the sperm whale in the Mediterranean. I am told, on good authority, that on the Barbary coast, a Commodore Davis of the British navy found the skeleton of a sperm whale. Now, as a vessel of war readily passes through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm whale could, by the same route, pass out of the Mediterranean into the Propontis.
现在，在他的这段历史中，普罗科皮乌斯提到，在他担任君士坦丁堡长官期间，一只巨大的海怪在邻近的普罗蓬蒂斯或马尔莫拉海被捕获，在一段时间内，它每隔一段时间就摧毁了这些水域的船只。五十多年了。如此载入史册的事实是不能轻易否认的。也没有任何理由应该如此。没有提及这种海怪的确切种类。但由于他摧毁了船只，以及其他原因，他一定是一条鲸鱼；我强烈倾向于认为是抹香鲸。我会告诉你原因。很长一段时间以来，我一直认为抹香鲸在地中海及其相连的深水中一直不为人所知。即使是现在，我也确信，在目前的情况下，这些海洋不是、也许永远不可能成为他惯常的社交胜地。但最近的进一步调查向我证明，在现代，地中海地区曾出现过抹香鲸的孤立实例。据可靠消息称，英国海军准将戴维斯在巴巴里海岸发现了一具抹香鲸的骨架。现在，由于战船很容易通过达达尼尔海峡，抹香鲸也可以通过同样的路线从地中海进入普罗蓬蒂斯河。

In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar substance called BRIT is to be found, the aliment of the right whale. But I have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale—squid or cuttle-fish—lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures, but by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its surface. If, then, you properly put these statements together, and reason upon them a bit, you will clearly perceive that, according to all human reasoning, Procopius’s sea-monster, that for half a century stove the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm whale.
据我所知，在 Propontis 中找不到任何一种叫做 BRIT 的特殊物质，即露脊鲸的食物。但我完全有理由相信抹香鲸的食物——乌贼或墨鱼——潜伏在海底，因为在其表面发现了大型生物，但绝不是最大的此类生物。那么，如果你正确地把这些陈述放在一起，并对它们进行一点推理，你就会清楚地认识到，根据所有人类的推理，普罗科皮乌斯的海怪，半个世纪以来一直在燃烧罗马皇帝的船只，必须在很可能是抹香鲸。

Chapter 46
第46章

Surmises.
猜测。

Though, consumed with the hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all his thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to that one passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman’s ways, altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. Or at least if this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more influential with him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, even considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would prove to be the hated one he hunted. But if such an hypothesis be indeed exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, though not so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet were by no means incapable of swaying him.
尽管亚哈被他的目标的炽热所吞噬，他的所有思想和行动都以最终捕获白鲸为目标；尽管他似乎准备为了这一爱好而牺牲一切凡人的利益；然而，他的本性和长期习惯可能过于执着于火热的捕鲸人的方式，完全放弃了对这次航行的附带起诉。或者至少如果不是这样的话，就不希望有其他动机对他产生更大的影响。即使考虑到他的偏执，暗示他对白鲸的报复心理可能在某种程度上延伸到所有抹香鲸，而且他杀死的怪物越多，他繁殖的怪物就越多，这也许太过精炼了。随后遇到的每一头鲸鱼都有可能成为他所猎杀的令人讨厌的鲸鱼。但如果这样的假设确实是例外的话，那么还有一些额外的考虑，虽然不完全符合他的主导激情的狂野性，但决不能影响他。

To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and of all tools used in the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew, for example, that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the complete spiritual man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves intellectual mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but stand in a sort of corporeal relation. Starbuck’s body and Starbuck’s coerced will were Ahab’s, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck’s brain; still he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his captain’s quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from it, or even frustrate it. It might be that a long interval would elapse ere the White Whale was seen. During that long interval Starbuck would ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebellion against his captain’s leadership, unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial influences were brought to bear upon him. Not only that, but the subtle insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was noways more significantly manifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing that, for the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it; that the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscure background (for few men’s courage is proof against protracted meditation unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than Moby Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less capricious and unreliable—they live in the varying outer weather, and they inhale its fickleness—and when retained for any object remote and blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life and passion in the end, it is above all things requisite that temporary interests and employments should intervene and hold them healthily suspended for the final dash.
为了实现他的目标，亚哈必须使用工具；在月影下使用的所有工具中，人类最容易失灵。例如，他知道，无论他在某些方面的优势如何超过星巴克，但这种优势并不能涵盖完整的精神人，就像单纯的物质优势并不涉及智力掌握一样；因为对于纯粹的精神、理智而言，却处于一种物质关系中。星巴克的身体和星巴克的强制意志都是亚哈的，只要亚哈把他的磁铁放在星巴克的大脑上；尽管如此，他仍然知道，大副在他的灵魂中憎恶船长的追求，如果他能的话，他会高兴地从它中解体，甚至挫败它。可能要经过很长一段时间才能看到白鲸。在那段漫长的时间里，星巴克很容易再次公开反抗他的船长的领导，除非有一些普通的、审慎的、环境因素的影响对他产生影响。不仅如此，亚哈对白鲸的尊重的微妙疯狂最明显地表现在他的超凡理智和精明预见到，就目前而言，狩猎应该以某种方式剥夺自然赋予它的那种奇怪的、富有想象力的不敬虔的态度。 ;航行中的全部恐惧必须被隐藏在模糊的背景中（因为很少有人有勇气能够抵挡长时间的沉思而不通过行动缓解）；当他们长时间守夜时，他的官兵们一定有一些比白鲸更近的事情要考虑。 无论野蛮的船员们多么热切和急躁，都对他的任务的宣布表示欢迎。然而，所有类型的水手或多或少都是反复无常和不可靠的——他们生活在变化无常的外部天气中，他们吸入了它的变化无常——当他们在追求中保留任何遥远和空白的目标时，无论最终的生活和激情如何承诺，最重要的是，暂时的兴趣和工作应该介入并让它们在最后冲刺时健康地暂停。

Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing. In times of strong emotion mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are evanescent. The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thought Ahab, is sordidness. Granting that the White Whale fully incites the hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even breeds a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the love of it they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food for their more common, daily appetites. For even the high lifted and chivalric Crusaders of old times were not content to traverse two thousand miles of land to fight for their holy sepulchre, without committing burglaries, picking pockets, and gaining other pious perquisites by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one final and romantic object—that final and romantic object, too many would have turned from in disgust. I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, of all hopes of cash—aye, cash. They may scorn cash now; but let some months go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon cashier Ahab.
亚哈也没有忽视另一件事。在情感强烈的时候，人类会蔑视一切卑鄙的考虑；但这样的时光转瞬即逝。亚哈认为，人造人的永久宪法状况是肮脏的。考虑到白鲸充分煽动了我这群野蛮船员的心，玩弄他们的野蛮行为甚至在他们身上滋生了某种慷慨的游侠精神，尽管如此，当他们出于对它的热爱而追逐莫比迪克时，他们也必须有满足他们更常见的日常食欲的食物。因为，即使是旧时代那些高尚而富有骑士精神的十字军，也不满足于穿越两千英里的土地来为他们的圣墓而战，而不犯下入室盗窃、扒窃和顺便获得其他虔诚津贴的行为。如果他们严格遵守他们最后的、浪漫的目标——那个最后的、浪漫的目标，太多的人会厌恶地转身离​​开。亚哈想，我不会剥夺这些人获得现金的所有希望——是的，现金。他们现在可能会鄙视现金；但几个月过去了，他们没有得到任何远见的承诺，然后同样的静止现金突然在他们身上叛变，同样的现金很快就会让亚哈出纳。

Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more related to Ahab personally. Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the Pequod’s voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation; and with perfect impunity, both moral and legal, his crew if so disposed, and to that end competent, could refuse all further obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possible consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must of course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protection could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand, backed by a heedful, closely calculating attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to be subjected to.
我们也不想再有另一个与亚哈个人更相关的预防性动机。亚哈很可能是一时冲动，也许有些过早地揭示了裴廓德号航行的主要但私人的目的，他现在完全意识到，这样做，他间接地让自己暴露在无可辩驳的篡夺指控之下。如果他的船员愿意并且有能力达到这一目的，他的船员可以拒绝进一步服从他，甚至可以暴力地夺取他的指挥权，而在道义上和法律上都完全不受惩罚。甚至从几乎没有暗示的篡夺行为以及这种压抑的印象扩大可能产生的后果来看，亚哈当然一定最渴望保护自己。这种保护只能存在于他自己的大脑、心脏和手上，并辅之以对他的船员可能受到的每一分钟大气影响的细心、仔细计算的关注。

For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too analytic to be verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still in a good degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod’s voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force himself to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general pursuit of his profession.
由于所有这些原因，以及其他可能过于分析而无法在这里用言语阐述的原因，亚哈清楚地看到，他必须在很大程度上继续忠于裴廓德号航行的自然的、名义上的目的；遵守所有习惯用法；不仅如此，还强迫自己表现出他对职业总体追求的众所周知的热情。

Be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the three mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit reporting even a porpoise. This vigilance was not long without reward.
不管怎样，现在经常可以听到他的声音向三个桅杆头欢呼，并告诫他们保持警惕，甚至不要忘记报告海豚。这种警惕并没有持续多久就没有回报。

Chapter 47
第47章

The Mat-Maker.
垫子制造者。

It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon; the seamen were lazily lounging about the decks, or vacantly gazing over into the lead-coloured waters. Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword-mat, for an additional lashing to our boat. So still and subdued and yet somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an incantation of reverie lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own invisible self.
那是一个多云、闷热的下午。海员们懒洋洋地在甲板上闲逛，或者茫然地凝视着铅色的海水。奎奎格和我的工作是编织所谓的剑垫，以额外绑扎我们的船。整个场景如此安静、柔和，但不知何故有前奏，空气中潜藏着这样一种遐想的咒语，每个沉默的水手似乎都沉浸在自己看不见的自我中。

I was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at the mat. As I kept passing and repassing the filling or woof of marline between the long yarns of the warp, using my own hand for the shuttle, and as Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid his heavy oaken sword between the threads, and idly looking off upon the water, carelessly and unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a dreaminess did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only broken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this were the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving and weaving away at the Fates. There lay the fixed threads of the warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise interblending of other threads with its own. This warp seemed necessity; and here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own destiny into these unalterable threads. Meantime, Queequeg’s impulsive, indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly, or strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference in the concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final aspect of the completed fabric; this savage’s sword, thought I, which thus finally shapes and fashions both warp and woof; this easy, indifferent sword must be chance—aye, chance, free will, and necessity—nowise incompatible—all interweavingly working together. The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from its ultimate course—its every alternating vibration, indeed, only tending to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads; and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though thus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the last featuring blow at events.
当我在垫子上忙碌时，我是魁魁格的服务员或侍从。当我不断地在经纱的长纱之间穿过马林鱼的填充物或纬纱时，用我自己的手来穿梭，而奎魁格则侧身站立，时不时地将他沉重的橡木剑滑过纱线之间，懒洋洋地看着我说，当时有一种奇怪的梦境笼罩着整艘船和整个大海，只有剑的断断续续的沉闷声音打破了，看起来好像是这样是时间的织机，而我自己则是一架穿梭机，在命运之神面前机械地编织着。经线的固定线仅承受一种单一的、不断返回的、不变的振动，而这种振动仅足以允许其他线与其自身的线交叉混合。这种扭曲似乎是必然的。我想，在这里，我用自己的双手，穿梭着自己的梭子，将自己的命运编织成这些不可改变的线。与此同时，魁魁格冲动而冷漠的剑，时而倾斜，时而弯曲，时而有力，时而微弱，视情况而定；并通过最终打击中的这种差异，在完成的织物的最终方面产生相应的对比；我想，这把野蛮人的剑最终塑造了经线和纬线；这把简单、冷漠的剑必定是偶然性的——是的，偶然性、自由意志和必然性——并非不相容——所有这些都交织在一起。 必然性的直线扭曲，不会偏离其最终路线——事实上，它的每一次交替振动都只是趋向于这一点；自由意志仍然自由地在给定的线程之间穿梭；偶然性虽然在必然性的正确范围内发挥作用，并且在自由意志指导下的运动中受到侧向影响，尽管两者都规定了偶然性，但偶然性还是轮流统治，并且在事件中具有最后的特色打击。

Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started at a sound so strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the ball of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds whence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-trees was that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagerly forward, his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was that very moment perhaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen’s look-outs perched as high in the air; but from few of those lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous cadence as from Tashtego the Indian’s.
就这样，我们一路走来走去，突然，我听到了一种奇怪的、拖长的、音乐上狂野的、超凡脱俗的声音，自由意志的球从我手中掉了下来，我站在那里，抬头凝视着云层，那声音就像一个声音从那里掉下来。翅膀。高高在十字树上的是那个疯狂的同性恋头球，塔什特戈。他的身体急切地向前伸展，他的手像魔杖一样伸出，每隔一段时间他就会继续哭喊。可以肯定的是，就在那一刻，也许整个海洋都听到了同样的声音，来自数百名鲸鱼瞭望员在高空中的瞭望台；但很少有人能从这些肺中发出像印第安人塔什特戈那样美妙的、古老的哭声。

As he stood hovering over you half suspended in air, so wildly and eagerly peering towards the horizon, you would have thought him some prophet or seer beholding the shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries announcing their coming.
当他半悬浮在空中盘旋在你上方时，如此狂野而热切地凝视着地平线，你会以为他是一位先知或预言家，看到了命运的阴影，并通过那些狂野的呼喊宣布了它们的到来。

‘There she blows! there! there! there! she blows! she blows!’
‘她在那里吹！那里！那里！那里！她吹了！她吹了！

‘Where-away?’
“去哪儿？”

‘On the lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of them!’
“在背风梁上，大约两英里外！他们组成的一个学校！

Instantly all was commotion.
顿时全场骚动起来。

The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating and reliable uniformity. And thereby whalemen distinguish this fish from other tribes of his genus.
抹香鲸的吹奏就像时钟的滴答声一样，具有同样的不偏离和可靠的一致性。因此，捕鲸者将这种鱼与同属的其他鱼类区分开来。

‘There go flukes!’ was now the cry from Tashtego; and the whales disappeared.
“侥幸来了！”塔什特戈现在喊道。鲸鱼就消失了。

‘Quick, steward!’ cried Ahab. ‘Time! time!’
“快点，管家！”亚哈喊道。 '时间！时间！'

Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported the exact minute to Ahab.
面团小子赶紧跑到下面，看了一眼表，向亚哈报告了准确的分钟数。

The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she went gently rolling before it. Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone down heading to leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in advance of our bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm Whale when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the opposite quarter—this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action; for there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had been in any way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity. One of the men selected for shipkeepers—that is, those not appointed to the boats, by this time relieved the Indian at the main-mast head. The sailors at the fore and mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed in their places; the cranes were thrust out; the mainyard was backed, and the three boats swung over the sea like three samphire baskets over high cliffs. Outside of the bulwarks their eager crews with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was expectantly poised on the gunwale. So look the long line of man-of-war’s men about to throw themselves on board an enemy’s ship.
现在船已远离风，她在船前轻轻地滚动。塔什特戈报告说鲸鱼已经向下风方向下降，我们自信地在船头正前方再次看到它们。因为抹香鲸有时会表现出这种独特的技巧，当它用头向一个方向发出声音时，尽管它隐藏在水面下，但它还是绕了一圈，然后迅速游到了相反的地方——他的这种欺骗行为现在不可能被人察觉了。行动中；因为没有理由认为塔什特戈看到的鱼受到了任何惊吓，或者确实知道我们的附近。被选为守船人的人之一——也就是那些没有被任命到船上的人——此时接替了主桅杆头的印第安人。前头和后尾的水手们已经下来了。线管固定到位；起重机被推出去；主船坞背靠着，三艘船在海上摇摆，就像高高的悬崖上的三个海蓬子篮子一样。在舷墙外，热切的船员们一只手紧抓栏杆，一只脚满怀期待地站在船舷上。看看一长排即将跳上敌舰的战舰士兵吧。

But at this critical instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took every eye from the whale. With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was surrounded by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
但就在这千钧一发之际，突然一声惊呼，让鲸鱼的所有目光都移开了。所有人都惊呆了，瞪着黑暗的亚哈，他周围环绕着五个仿佛刚从空气中形成的昏暗幻影。

Chapter 48
第48章

The First Lowering.
第一次降低。

The phantoms, for so they then seemed, were flitting on the other side of the deck, and, with a noiseless celerity, were casting loose the tackles and bands of the boat which swung there. This boat had always been deemed one of the spare boats, though technically called the captain’s, on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter. The figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart, with one white tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips. A rumpled Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black trowsers of the same dark stuff. But strangely crowning this ebonness was a glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled round and round upon his head. Less swart in aspect, the companions of this figure were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;—a race notorious for a certain diabolism of subtilty, and by some honest white mariners supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents on the water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-room they suppose to be elsewhere.
那些幻影，当时看起来是这样，在甲板的另一边掠过，并且以无声无息的速度，松开了在那里摇摆的小船的滑车和带子。这艘船一直被认为是备用船之一，尽管技术上称为船长船，因为它悬挂在右舷处。现在站在船头的那个人身材高大、黝黑，钢铁般的嘴唇上邪恶地伸出一颗白色的牙齿。他身上穿着一件皱巴巴的黑色棉质中式夹克，下身是一件同样深色的宽大的黑色长裤。但奇怪的是，在这黑檀木之上，还戴着一条闪闪发光的白色编织头巾，鲜活的头发编成辫子，盘绕在他的头上。这个人物的同伴外表不那么黝黑，有着马尼拉一些原住民所特有的生动的虎黄色肤色；这个种族因狡猾的恶魔般的行为而臭名昭著，被一些诚实的白人水手认为是魔鬼水上的受雇间谍和秘密特工，他们的主人，他们认为魔鬼的财务室在别处。

While yet the wondering ship’s company were gazing upon these strangers, Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, ‘All ready there, Fedallah?’
当这艘奇怪的船上的人注视着这些陌生人时，亚哈向他们最前面的戴白头巾的老人喊道：“都准备好了吗，费达拉？”

‘Ready,’ was the half-hissed reply.
“准备好了。”那人低声回答道。

‘Lower away then; d’ye hear?’ shouting across the deck. ‘Lower away there, I say.’
‘那就下去吧； “你听到了吗？”甲板上喊道。 “我说，低一点。”

Such was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement the men sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks; with a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with a dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, the sailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship’s side into the tossed boats below.
他的声音如此雷鸣，尽管人们很惊讶，但他们还是跳出了栏杆。滑轮在木块中旋转；一阵打滚，三艘船落入海中。与此同时，水手们则像山羊一样，以一种在任何其他职业中都没有的灵巧、随性的勇气，从滚动的船舷上跳进了下面翻滚的小船里。

Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship’s lee, when a fourth keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern, and showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern, loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely, so as to cover a large expanse of water. But with all their eyes again riveted upon the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other boats obeyed not the command.
他们刚从船的背风处驶出，第四根龙骨从迎风面驶来，在船尾下方拉转，向五个陌生人展示了划船的亚哈，而亚哈则笔直地站在船尾，大声向斯塔巴克、斯塔布欢呼，和烧瓶，将自己广泛传播，从而覆盖大片水域。但当所有人的目光再次集中在黝黑的费达拉和他的船员身上时，其他船上的居民并没有服从命令。

‘Captain Ahab?—‘ said Starbuck.
“亚哈船长？——”斯塔巴克说道。

‘Spread yourselves,’ cried Ahab; ‘give way, all four boats. Thou, Flask, pull out more to leeward!’
亚哈喊道：“你们散开吧。” ‘四艘船全部让路。你，弗拉斯克，往下风方向拉更多！”

‘Aye, aye, sir,’ cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his great steering oar. ‘Lay back!’ addressing his crew. ‘There!—there!—there again! There she blows right ahead, boys!—lay back!’
“是啊，是啊，长官，”小国王波斯特高兴地喊道，摇动着他那巨大的舵桨。 “躺下来！”对他的船员们说道。 ‘那儿！——那儿！——又是那儿！孩子们，她就在前面吹！——躺着吧！

‘Never heed yonder yellow boys, Archy.’
“别理会那边的黄种男孩，阿奇。”

‘Oh, I don’t mind’em, sir,’ said Archy; ‘I knew it all before now. Didn’t I hear ‘em in the hold? And didn’t I tell Cabaco here of it? What say ye, Cabaco? They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.’
“噢，我不介意，先生，”阿奇说。 ‘我以前就知道这一切了。我没听见他们在货舱里吗？我不是在这里告诉过卡巴科吗？你说什么，卡巴科？他们是偷渡者，弗拉斯克先生。

‘Pull, pull, my fine hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little ones,’ drawlingly and soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom still showed signs of uneasiness. ‘Why don’t you break your backbones, my boys? What is it you stare at? Those chaps in yonder boat? Tut! They are only five more hands come to help us—never mind from where—the more the merrier. Pull, then, do pull; never mind the brimstone—devils are good fellows enough. So, so; there you are now; that’s the stroke for a thousand pounds; that’s the stroke to sweep the stakes! Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes! Three cheers, men—all hearts alive! Easy, easy; don’t be in a hurry—don’t be in a hurry. Why don’t you snap your oars, you rascals? Bite something, you dogs! So, so, so, then:—softly, softly! That’s it—that’s it! long and strong. Give way there, give way! The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin rapscallions; ye are all asleep. Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull. Pull, will ye? pull, can’t ye? pull, won’t ye? Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes don’t ye pull?—pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out! Here!’ whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; ‘every mother’s son of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth. That’s it—that’s it. Now ye do something; that looks like it, my steel-bits. Start her—start her, my silver-spoons! Start her, marling-spikes!’
‘拉，拉，我美好的心还活着；拉，我的孩子们；拉，我的孩子们，”斯塔布对他的船员们慢吞吞地叹了口气，其中一些人仍然表现出不安的迹象。 ‘我的孩子们，你们为什么不折断你们的脊梁骨呢？你在盯着什么？那边船上的那些人？啧！他们只剩下五只手来帮助我们了——不管从哪里来——越多越好。拉，然后，拉；别管硫磺——魔鬼都是好人。一般般;你现在就在那里；这是一千磅的行程；这就是横扫赌注的一招！我的英雄们，为金杯精子油欢呼吧！伙计们，欢呼三声——所有的心都活着！慢慢来;别着急——别着急。你们这些无赖，为什么不折断桨呢？咬点东西吧，你们这些狗！那么，那么，那么，那么：——轻轻地，轻轻地！就是这样——就是这样！又长又强。让路，让路！魔鬼来抓你们，你们这些衣衫褴褛的恶棍；你们都睡着了。别再打鼾了，睡觉的人，拉吧。拉，你会吗？拉，你不能吗？拉，不是吗？为什么以鱼和姜饼的名义你们不拉？——拉并打破一些东西！拉，然后开始你的眼睛！在这里！”从腰带上抽出锋利的刀； ‘你们每个母亲的儿子都拔出刀，用牙齿咬住刀片。就是这样——就是这样。现在你们做点什么；看起来就是这样，我的钢钻头。启动她——启动她，我的银汤匙！启动她，马林钉！

Stubb’s exordium to his crew is given here at large, because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially in inculcating the religion of rowing. But you must not suppose from this specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with his congregation. Not at all; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity. He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing. Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so broadly gaped—open-mouthed at times—that the mere sight of such a yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon the crew. Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists, whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.
斯塔布对他的船员们的序言在这里被广泛地发表，因为他与他们交谈的方式相当独特，尤其是在灌输赛艇信仰方面。但你绝不能从他的布道样本中推测出他曾对他的会众产生彻底的激情。一点也不;他的主要特点就在于此。他会对他的船员说最可怕的事情，用一种奇怪地混合着乐趣和愤怒的语气，而愤怒似乎只是为了乐趣而精心设计的，以至于没有桨手可以听到这样奇怪的祈祷而不拼命划水，然而，这只是一个笑话。此外，他本人一直显得那么轻松、懒惰，那么懒洋洋地操纵着他的舵桨，而且张得那么大——有时张开嘴——以至于仅仅看到这样一个打哈欠的指挥官，通过纯粹的对比，就表现得像一个对船员的魅力。话又说回来，斯塔布是那种奇怪的幽默家之一，他的欢乐有时是如此奇怪地模棱两可，以至于让所有下属在服从他们的问题上保持警惕。

In obedience to a sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely across Stubb’s bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats were pretty near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate.
按照亚哈的示意，斯塔巴克现在正斜向驶过斯塔布的船头。当两艘船靠得很近大约一分钟时，斯塔布向大副打招呼。

‘Mr. Starbuck! larboard boat there, ahoy! a word with ye, sir, if ye please!’
'先生。星巴克！左舷船在那里，嘿！先生，请告诉您一句话！”

‘Halloa!’ returned Starbuck, turning round not a single inch as he spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face set like a flint from Stubb’s.
“你好！”斯塔巴克回答道，说话时连转身都没有转一英寸。仍然诚恳地低声催促他的船员；他的脸像斯塔布的燧石一样凝固了。

‘What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
“您对那些黄种男孩有什么看法，先生！

‘Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong, boys!)’ in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: ‘A sad business, Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, Mr. Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what will. (Spring, my men, spring!) There’s hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Stubb, and that’s what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm’s the play! This at least is duty; duty and profit hand in hand.’
“不知何故，在船开航之前就被偷偷带上了船。 （坚强，坚强，孩子们！）”低声对他的船员们说道，然后再次大声说道：“真是一件悲伤的事情，斯塔布先生！ （沸腾她，沸腾她，我的小伙子们！） 不过没关系，斯塔布先生，一切都是为了最好。让你的所有船员都坚强起来，无论发生什么。 （春天，我的伙计们，春天！） 前面有一大堆精子，斯塔布先生，这就是你们来这里的目的。 （拉，我的孩子们！）精子，精子就是游戏！这至少是义务；责任和利润齐头并进。

‘Aye, aye, I thought as much,’ soliloquized Stubb, when the boats diverged, ‘as soon as I clapt eye on ‘em, I thought so. Aye, and that’s what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long suspected. They were hidden down there. The White Whale’s at the bottom of it. Well, well, so be it! Can’t be helped! All right! Give way, men! It ain’t the White Whale to-day! Give way!’
“是的，是的，我也是这么想的，”当两艘船分开时，斯塔布自言自语道，“我一看到他们，我就这么想了。是的，这就是他经常进入后等待的原因，正如面团男孩长期以来所怀疑的那样。他们就藏在那里。白鲸就在它的底部。好吧好吧，就这样吧！没办法！好的！让路吧，伙计们！今天不是白鲸！泄露！'

Now the advent of these outlandish strangers at such a critical instant as the lowering of the boats from the deck, this had not unreasonably awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in some of the ship’s company; but Archy’s fancied discovery having some time previous got abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in some small measure prepared them for the event. It took off the extreme edge of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb’s confident way of accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab’s precise agency in the matter from the beginning. For me, I silently recalled the mysterious shadows I had seen creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket dawn, as well as the enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.
现在，这些古怪的陌生人在船只从甲板上放下来的关键时刻出现，这自然引起了船上一些人的迷信惊讶；但阿奇的奇特发现早已在他们中间流传开来，虽然当时确实没有得到认可，但这在某种程度上为他们为这一事件做好了准备。它消除了他们的好奇心。因此，有了这一切，再加上斯塔布对他们外表的自信解释，他们暂时摆脱了迷信的猜测。尽管这件事仍然为各种疯狂的猜测留下了充足的空间，人们对黑暗亚哈从一开始就在这件事上的确切代理机构留下了足够的空间。对我来说，我默默地回忆起在楠塔基特岛黎明时分看到的“裴阔德”号上爬行的神秘阴影，以及无法解释的以利亚的神秘暗示。

Meantime, Ahab, out of hearing of his officers, having sided the furthest to windward, was still ranging ahead of the other boats; a circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew was pulling him. Those tiger yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and whalebone; like five trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of strength, which periodically started the boat along the water like a horizontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer. As for Fedallah, who was seen pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale, clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon; while at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one arm, like a fencer’s, thrown half backward into the air, as if to counterbalance any tendency to trip; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him. All at once the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained fixed, while the boat’s five oars were seen simultaneously peaked. Boat and crew sat motionless on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats in the rear paused on their way. The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.
与此同时，亚哈为了避开他的军官们的注意，把最远的一侧转向迎风方向，仍然走在其他船只的前面。这种情况表明船员们对他的拉动有多么强大。他那些虎黄色的生物看起来都是钢铁和鲸骨；它们就像五把锤子一样，有规律地用力起落，周期性地使船沿着水面启动，就像密西西比汽轮上水平爆裂的锅炉一样。至于费达拉，人们看到他拉着鱼叉桨，他把黑色夹克扔到一边，露出赤裸的胸部，整个身体都在船舷上方，清晰地映衬着水汪汪的地平线交替的凹陷；而在船的另一端，亚哈的一只手臂像击剑运动员一样，半向后抛向空中，仿佛是为了抵消任何绊倒的倾向。人们看到亚哈在白鲸撕扯他之前平稳地控制着他的舵桨，就像在沉降船只上千次一样。突然，伸出的手臂做了一个奇怪的动作，然后保持不动，同时看到船上的五个桨同时达到最高点。船和船员一动不动地坐在海面上。后方的三艘分散船立即停了下来。鲸鱼的身体不规则地沉入蓝色，因此从远处看不到这种运动的迹象，尽管亚哈从他附近观察到了这一点。

‘Every man look out along his oars!’ cried Starbuck. ‘Thou, Queequeg, stand up!’
“每个人都看着他的桨！”斯塔巴克喊道。 “你，魁魁格，站起来！”

Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage stood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the spot where the chase had last been descried. Likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silently eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.
野蛮人敏捷地跳到船头的三角形凸起的盒子上，笔直地站在那里，用强烈渴望的眼睛凝视着最后一次描述的追逐的地方。同样，在船的最尾端，也是与船舷齐平的三角形平台上，人们看到星巴克本人冷静而熟练地在船的颠簸中保持平衡，静静地注视着大海的广阔蓝眼。

Not very far distant Flask’s boat was also lying breathlessly still; its commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout sort of post rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with the whale line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man’s hand, and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the mast-head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But little King-Post was small and short, and at the same time little King-Post was full of a large and tall ambition, so that this loggerhead stand-point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.
不远处，弗拉斯克的船也一动不动地躺在那里。它的指挥官鲁莽地站在红蠵的顶部，这是一根扎根于龙骨的坚固柱子，高出船尾平台约两英尺。它用于用鲸鱼线捕捉转弯。它的顶部并不比一个人的手掌宽，站在这样的底座上，弗拉斯克似乎栖息在一艘已经沉没的船的桅顶上，除了她的卡车。但小金波斯特又小又矮，同时小金波斯特又充满了大而高的野心，所以他这种固执的立场并不能令金波斯特满意。

‘I can’t see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to that.’
“我看不到三片大洋；在那里给我们支起桨，让我继续说。

Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way, swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty shoulders for a pedestal.
这时，达古用两只手放在舷缘上以稳定自己的路线，迅速滑向船尾，然后站起来，自愿用他高耸的肩膀作为基座。

‘Good a mast-head as any, sir. Will you mount?’
“桅杆头还是不错的，长官。你会上马吗？

‘That I will, and thank ye very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you fifty feet taller.’
“我会的，非常感谢你们，我的好朋友；只是我希望你长高五十英尺。

Whereupon planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the boat, the gigantic negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to Flask’s foot, and then putting Flask’s hand on his hearse-plumed head and bidding him spring as he himself should toss, with one dexterous fling landed the little man high and dry on his shoulders. And here was Flask now standing, Daggoo with one lifted arm furnishing him with a breastband to lean against and steady himself by.
随后，巨大的黑人将双脚牢牢地踩在船的两块相对的木板上，稍微弯下腰，将扁平的手掌放在弗拉斯克的脚上，然后将弗拉斯克的手放在他灵车羽毛的头上，命令他跳起来，就像他自己应该扔的那样，灵巧地一甩，小个子就高高地落在了他的肩膀上。现在弗拉斯克站在这里，达古抬起一只手臂，给他提供了一条胸带，让他依靠并稳定自己。

At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously perverse and cross-running seas. Still more strange to see him giddily perched upon the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances. But the sight of little Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious; for sustaining himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of, barbaric majesty, the noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously rolled his fine form. On his broad back, flaxen-haired Flask seemed a snow-flake. The bearer looked nobler than the rider. Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious little Flask would now and then stamp with impatience; but not one added heave did he thereby give to the negro’s lordly chest. So have I seen Passion and Vanity stamping the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did not alter her tides and her seasons for that.
任何时候，对于新手来说，看到捕鲸人凭借无意识技巧的奇妙习惯，在他的船上保持直立的姿势，即使是在最狂暴、最反常、最横流的大海中颠簸时，都是一种奇怪的景象。更奇怪的是，在这种情况下，看到他头晕地栖息在红海龟身上。但小弗拉斯克骑在巨大的达古身上的景象更令人好奇；这位高贵的黑人以一种冷静、冷漠、轻松、不经意的、野蛮的威严来维持自己，在大海的每一次翻滚中和谐地翻滚着他优美的身躯。在他宽阔的背上，亚麻色头发的弗拉斯克就像一片雪花。轿夫看起来比骑手高贵。尽管小弗拉斯克确实很活泼、骚动、爱炫耀，但他时不时会不耐烦地跺脚；但他并没有因此而对黑人高贵的胸膛做出任何额外的起伏。我也看到激情和虚荣在生机勃勃的大地上留下印记，但大地并没有因此而改变她的潮汐和季节。

Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing solicitudes. The whales might have made one of their regular soundings, not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that were the case, Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to solace the languishing interval with his pipe. He withdrew it from his hatband, where he always wore it aslant like a feather. He loaded it, and rammed home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his match across the rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer, whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars, suddenly dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat, crying out in a quick phrensy of hurry, ‘Down, down all, and give way!—there they are!’
与此同时，三副斯塔布却没有表现出如此高瞻远瞩的关心。鲸鱼可能会发出一种常规的探测声，而不是仅仅因为害怕而暂时潜入水中。如果真是这样，斯塔布似乎决心用烟斗来安慰这令人沮丧的间隙。他把它从帽带上取下来，他总是把它像羽毛一样斜戴在帽带上。他装载了它，并用拇指端将装载物撞回原处。但他刚在手上粗糙的砂纸上点燃火柴，塔什特戈，他的标枪手，他的眼睛一直像两颗恒星一样望着上风，突然像光一样从他笔直的姿势跌落到座位上，大声喊道。急急忙忙，“放下，全部放下，让路！——他们在那儿！”

To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have been visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white water, and thin scattered puffs of vapour hovering over it, and suffusingly blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white rolling billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it were, like the air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath this atmospheric waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer of water, also, the whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all the other indications, the puffs of vapour they spouted, seemed their forerunning couriers and detached flying outriders.
对于陆地上的人来说，此时此刻看不到鲸鱼，也看不到任何鲱鱼的踪迹。只不过是一片混乱的绿色白色海水，上面盘旋着细细的、分散的蒸汽，并不断地向下风方向吹去，就像白色滚滚巨浪中混乱的飞毛腿一样。周围的空气突然震动起来，刺痛起来，就像是高温铁板上的空气一样。在这种波动和卷曲的大气层下，部分在薄薄的水层下，鲸鱼也在游泳。在所有其他迹象出现之前，他们喷出的蒸气就像是他们的先行信使和独立的飞行先驱者。

All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air. But it bade fair to outstrip them; it flew on and on, as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills.
所有四艘船现在都在热切地追逐那一处混乱的水和空气。但超越他们是公平的；它飞呀飞呀，就像一大团相互混合的气泡从山上的急流中冲下来一样。

‘Pull, pull, my good boys,’ said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but intensest concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two visible needles in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say much to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only the silence of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his peculiar whispers, now harsh with command, now soft with entreaty.
“拉，拉，我的好孩子们，”斯塔巴克用最低声但最集中的声音对他的手下说。他的目光锐利而坚定，直直地扫向船头前方，几乎就像两个准确无误的罗盘罗盘上的两根可见的针。不过，他没有对他的船员说太多话，他的船员也没有对他说什么。只有船上的寂静时不时地被他一种奇特的低语所打破，时而严厉，时而带着命令，时而柔和，时而带着恳求。

How different the loud little King-Post. ‘Sing out and say something, my hearties. Roar and pull, my thunderbolts! Beach me, beach me on their black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I’ll sign over to you my Martha’s Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and children, boys. Lay me on—lay me on! O Lord, Lord! but I shall go stark, staring mad! See! see that white water!’ And so shouting, he pulled his hat from his head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, flirted it far off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat’s stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.
大声的小国王邮报多么不同啊。 ‘大声唱出来，说点什么，我的心肝宝贝。咆哮拉拉，我的雷电！男孩们，把我放在海滩上，把我放在他们黑色的背上；只为我做这件事，我会把我的玛莎葡萄园种植园交给你们，孩子们；包括妻子、孩子、男孩。让我躺着——让我躺着！主啊，主啊！但我会变得赤裸裸，发疯！看！看到那白色的水！”他一边喊，一边把帽子从头上拔下来，在上面跺脚。然后把它捡起来，远远地在海上调情；最后像一匹来自草原的发疯的小马驹一样，在船尾立起身子。

‘Look at that chap now,’ philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his unlighted short pipe, mechanically retained between his teeth, at a short distance, followed after—‘He’s got fits, that Flask has. Fits? yes, give him fits—that’s the very word—pitch fits into ‘em. Merrily, merrily, hearts-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;—merry’s the word. Pull, babes—pull, sucklings—pull, all. But what the devil are you hurrying about? Softly, softly, and steadily, my men. Only pull, and keep pulling; nothing more. Crack all your backbones, and bite your knives in two—that’s all. Take it easy—why don’t ye take it easy, I say, and burst all your livers and lungs!’
“现在看看那个家伙，”斯塔布哲学地慢吞吞地说，他用他那只没有点燃的短烟斗，机械地保持在牙齿之间，在很短的距离内，跟在后面——“他抽搐了，弗拉斯克也抽搐了。”适合？是的，让他适应——就是这个词——音调适合他们。心旷神怡，心旷神怡，心旷神怡。晚餐吃布丁，你知道；——快乐就是这个词。拉，宝贝们——拉，乳儿们——拉，全部。但你到底急什么？轻轻地，轻轻地，稳稳地，我的伙计们。只拉，持续拉；而已。把你的脊椎全部折断，把你的刀咬成两半——仅此而已。放松点——我说，你为什么不放松点，把你的肝和肺都炸裂！

But what it was that inscrutable Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of his—these were words best omitted here; for you live under the blessed light of the evangelical land. Only the infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words, when, with tornado brow, and eyes of red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after his prey.
但神秘莫测的亚哈对他那群虎黄色的船员所说的话——这些话最好在这里省略；因为你们生活在福音派土地的祝福之光下。当亚哈带着龙卷风般的眉毛、充满杀气的红色眼睛和粘着泡沫的嘴唇时，只有在大胆的海洋中异教徒的鲨鱼才会听到这样的话。

Meanwhile, all the boats tore on. The repeated specific allusions of Flask to ‘that whale,’ as he called the fictitious monster which he declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat’s bow with its tail—these allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that they would cause some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look over the shoulder. But this was against all rule; for the oarsmen must put out their eyes, and ram a skewer through their necks; usage pronouncing that they must have no organs but ears, and no limbs but arms, in these critical moments.
与此同时，所有的船只都在急速前进。弗拉斯克反复具体提及“那条鲸鱼”，他称这种虚构的怪物不断地用尾巴挑逗他的船头——他的这些暗示有时是如此生动和栩栩如生，以至于它们会引起人们的注意。他手下的一两个人会转过头来投以恐惧的目光。但这是违反所有规则的。因为桨手必须挖出他们的眼睛，并用一根串子穿过他们的脖子。用法表明，在这些关键时刻，他们必须除了耳朵之外没有任何器官，除了手臂之外必须没有四肢。

It was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells of the omnipotent sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green; the brief suspended agony of the boat, as it would tip for an instant on the knife-like edge of the sharper waves, that almost seemed threatening to cut it in two; the sudden profound dip into the watery glens and hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain the top of the opposite hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its other side;—all these, with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen after her screaming brood;—all this was thrilling.
这景象充满了惊奇和敬畏！无所不能的大海波涛汹涌；当它们沿着八个舷缘滚动时，它们发出汹涌而空洞的轰鸣声，就像无边的保龄球场上的巨大碗一样；船短暂的悬置的痛苦，因为它会在更尖锐的波浪的刀状边缘上瞬间倾斜，几乎似乎有要把它切成两半的威胁；突然深入水汪汪的峡谷和洼地；强烈的刺激和刺激，以到达对面的山顶；轻快的、雪橇般的滑行从另一侧滑下来；——所有这些，伴随着刽子手和标枪手的叫喊声，划桨手颤抖的喘息声，伴随着象牙色的佩阔德号张开帆向她的小船冲来的奇妙景象，就像一只野母鸡追赶着尖叫着的孩子；——这一切都令人激动不已。

Not the raw recruit, marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever heat of his first battle; not the dead man’s ghost encountering the first unknown phantom in the other world;—neither of these can feel stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first time finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the hunted sperm whale.
不是刚从妻子怀里走出来，投入第一场战斗的新兵；而是新兵。不是死者的鬼魂在另一个世界遇到第一个未知的幻影；——这些都不能比那个人感到更奇怪和更强烈的情感，他第一次发现自己陷入了被猎杀的抹香鲸的迷人、搅动的圈子里。

The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and more visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows flung upon the sea. The jets of vapour no longer blended, but tilted everywhere to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes. The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales running dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with the still rising wind, we rushed along; the boat going with such madness through the water, that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to escape being torn from the row-locks.
由于投掷在海面上的暗褐色云影越来越暗，追逐造成的舞动的白色海水现在变得越来越明显。蒸汽喷射不再混合，而是左右倾斜。鲸鱼似乎将它们的尾迹分开。船被拉得更远了。星巴克追赶三头向下风方向跑去的鲸鱼。我们的船帆已经挂好了，风势依然强劲，我们继续前行。船在水中疯狂地行驶，背风桨几乎无法快速转动，以免被从桨锁上撕下来。

Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist; neither ship nor boat to be seen.
很快我们就跑进了一层弥漫着的大雾。既没有船也没有船。

‘Give way, men,’ whispered Starbuck, drawing still further aft the sheet of his sail; ‘there is time to kill a fish yet before the squall comes. There’s white water again!—close to! Spring!’
“让路，伙计们，”斯塔巴克低声说道，一边把帆进一步拉到后面。 “在暴风雨来临之前，还有时间杀鱼。”又来了白水！——快到了！春天！'

Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted that the other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when with a lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: ‘Stand up!’ and Queequeg, harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.
不久之后，我们两侧连续发出两声叫喊声，表明其他船已经加速了。但他们几乎没有被人听见，斯塔巴克发出闪电般的低声说道：“站起来！”魁魁格手里拿着鱼叉，跳了起来。

Though not one of the oarsmen was then facing the life and death peril so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes on the intense countenance of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew that the imminent instant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing sound as of fifty elephants stirring in their litter. Meanwhile the boat was still booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like the erected crests of enraged serpents.
虽然当时没有一个桨手正面临如此近的生死危机，但看着船尾大副的紧张表情，他们知道，迫在眉睫的时刻已经到来了；他们还听到了巨大的打滚声，就像五十头大象在窝里翻腾一样。与此同时，小船仍在薄雾中轰鸣，海浪在我们周围卷曲、嘶嘶作响，就像愤怒的蛇竖起的波峰。

‘That’s his hump. THERE, THERE, give it to him!’ whispered Starbuck.
‘那是他的驼峰。好了，好了，给他吧！”斯塔巴克低声说道。

A short rushing sound leaped out of the boat; it was the darted iron of Queequeg. Then all in one welded commotion came an invisible push from astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on a ledge; the sail collapsed and exploded; a gush of scalding vapour shot up near by; something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us. The whole crew were half suffocated as they were tossed helter-skelter into the white curdling cream of the squall. Squall, whale, and harpoon had all blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by the iron, escaped.
船外传出一阵短促的急促声；那是魁魁格的飞镖。然后，船尾传来一阵无形的推力，而船向前，似乎撞到了岩架上，一阵混乱的喧闹声传来。船帆倒塌并爆炸；一股滚烫的蒸汽从附近喷涌而出；有什么东西像地震一样在我们脚下滚动翻滚。全体船员都被惊慌失措地扔进了白色凝结的暴风雨中，几乎要窒息了。飑、鲸鱼和鱼叉混合在一起；鲸鱼只是被铁擦过，就逃脱了。

Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed. Swimming round it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the gunwale, tumbled back to our places. There we sat up to our knees in the sea, the water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing eyes the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the ocean.
尽管完全被淹没，但船几乎没有受到伤害。我们绕着它游，拿起漂浮的桨，把它们猛击在船舷上，然后滚回我们的地方。我们坐在齐膝的海里，海水淹没了每一根肋骨和木板，因此，在我们向下凝视的眼睛中，悬浮的船就像一艘从海底长出来的珊瑚船。

The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers together; the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a white fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal in these jaws of death! In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar to the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those boats in that storm. Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew darker with the shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen. The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat. The oars were useless as propellers, performing now the office of life-preservers. So, cutting the lashing of the waterproof match keg, after many failures Starbuck contrived to ignite the lamp in the lantern; then stretching it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg as the standard-bearer of this forlorn hope. There, then, he sat, holding up that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness. There, then, he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope in the midst of despair.
风势越来越大，变成了呼啸声。海浪将他们的圆盾撞在一起；整个暴风雨在我们周围咆哮、分叉、噼啪作响，就像草原上的一团白火，我们在其中燃烧着，但还没有被烧毁。在这些死亡之口中永垂不朽！我们徒劳地向其他船只打招呼；就像向着熊熊燃烧的熔炉烟囱里的燃烧的煤炭咆哮一样，就像在暴风雨中向那些船只欢呼一样。与此同时，疾驰的飞流、齿状和薄雾，随着夜色的阴影变得更加黑暗。看不到船的踪迹。不断上涨的海平面阻止了所有将船救出的尝试。桨作为螺旋桨毫无用处，现在起着救生衣的作用。于是，星巴克在多次失败后，切断了防水火柴桶的绑扎，设法点燃了灯笼里的灯；然后把它挂在一根横杆上，交给奎奎格，作为这个绝望希望的旗手。然后，他坐在那里，在极度孤独的心中举起那根愚蠢的蜡烛。然后，他坐在那里，这是一个没有信仰的人的标志和象征，在绝望中绝望地抱着希望。

Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold, despairing of ship or boat, we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on. The mist still spread over the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat. Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear. We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by the storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as the ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a distance of not much more than its length.
浑身湿透，浑身湿透，冷得发抖，对船或船感到绝望，黎明来临时，我们抬起了眼睛。海面上仍然弥漫着薄雾，空灯笼压在船底。突然奎魁格站了起来，把手伸向耳边。我们都听到了微弱的吱吱声，就像迄今为止被暴风雨淹没的绳索和院子发出的那样。声音越来越近。浓浓的雾气被一个巨大而模糊的身影隐隐约约地分开。当那艘船终于出现在我们的视野中时，我们全都吓坏了，跳进了海里，在距离我们不远的地方向我们冲来。

Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant it tossed and gaped beneath the ship’s bows like a chip at the base of a cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen no more till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, were dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on board. Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from their fish and returned to the ship in good time. The ship had given us up, but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of our perishing,—an oar or a lance pole.
我们看到那艘被遗弃的船漂浮在海浪上，有那么一瞬间，它在船头下方​​翻腾，张开嘴，就像瀑布底部的碎片一样。然后巨大的船体滚过它，人们再也看不到它了，直到它摇摇晃晃地出现在船尾。我们再次向它游去，又被海水冲向它，最后被卷起并安全地降落在船上。在暴风雨临近之前，其他船只已经摆脱了鱼群并及时返回了船上。船已经放弃了我们，但仍在巡航，如果它可能会照亮我们灭亡的某种标志——一根桨或一根矛杆。

Chapter 49
第49章

The Hyena.
鬣狗。

There are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed affair we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast practical joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns, and more than suspects that the joke is at nobody’s expense but his own. However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing. He bolts down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard things visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of potent digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints. And as for small difficulties and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril of life and limb; all these, and death itself, seem to him only sly, good-natured hits, and jolly punches in the side bestowed by the unseen and unaccountable old joker. That odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking of, comes over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation; it comes in the very midst of his earnestness, so that what just before might have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now seems but a part of the general joke. There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this free and easy sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with it I now regarded this whole voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its object.
在我们称之为生活的这种奇怪的混合事件中，有一些奇怪的时刻和场合，当一个人把整个宇宙当作一个巨大的恶作剧时，尽管他只能隐约地辨别出其中的智慧，而且更怀疑这个笑话除了他自己之外没有任何人付出代价。自己的。然而，没有什么可以令人沮丧，也没有什么值得争论的。他用螺栓固定所有事件、所有信条、信念和说服力，所有可见和不可见的困难事物，不管它们有多么多节；就像一只具有强大消化能力的鸵鸟吞下子弹和枪燧石。至于小困难和忧虑，突如其来的灾难，生命和肢体的危险；所有这些，以及死亡本身，对他来说似乎只是狡猾的、善意的打击，以及由看不见的、不负责任的老小丑所赐予的快乐的一拳。我所说的那种奇怪的任性情绪，只有在极度磨难的时候才会出现。它是在他的认真之中出现的，因此，之前对他来说可能是最重要的事情，现在看来只是一般笑话的一部分。没有什么比捕鲸的危险更能孕育出这种自由自在、和蔼可亲、亡命之徒的哲学了。现在我用它来看待“裴阔德号”的整个航行，以及它的目标是大白鲸。

‘Queequeg,’ said I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck, and I was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water; ‘Queequeg, my fine friend, does this sort of thing often happen?’ Without much emotion, though soaked through just like me, he gave me to understand that such things did often happen.
“魁魁格，”当他们把我这个最后一个人拖到甲板上时，我说道，而我仍在夹克里晃动自己，想甩掉水面。 “奎魁格，我的好朋友，这种事经常发生吗？”他没有太多感情，尽管和我一样被浸透了，但他让我明白这样的事情确实经常发生。

‘Mr. Stubb,’ said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up in his oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; ‘Mr. Stubb, I think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent. I suppose then, that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy squall is the height of a whaleman’s discretion?’
'先生。 “斯塔布，”我转向那个值得尊敬的人说道，他扣紧了油夹克的扣子，现在正在雨中平静地抽着烟斗。 '先生。斯塔布，我想我听你说过，在你见过的所有捕鲸人中，我们的大副斯塔巴克先生是迄今为止最细心和谨慎的。那么我想，在雾蒙蒙的暴风雨中，在飞翔的鲸鱼上航行，就是捕鲸人的判断力的高度吗？

‘Certain. I’ve lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn.’
'肯定。我曾在合恩角附近的大风中从一艘漏水的船上潜入鲸鱼。

‘Mr. Flask,’ said I, turning to little King-Post, who was standing close by; ‘you are experienced in these things, and I am not. Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into death’s jaws?’
'先生。 “烧瓶，”我转向站在附近的小金波斯特说道。 ‘你在这些事情上很有经验，而我却没有。你能告诉我，弗拉斯克先生，桨手在把自己拉到死神嘴里时会摔断自己的背部，这是否是这个渔业中不可改变的法则？

‘Can’t you twist that smaller?’ said Flask. ‘Yes, that’s the law. I should like to see a boat’s crew backing water up to a whale face foremost. Ha, ha! the whale would give them squint for squint, mind that!’
“你不能把它扭小一点吗？”弗拉斯克说。 ‘是的，这就是法律。我希望看到船员们将水最先推到鲸鱼的脸上。哈哈！鲸鱼会对他们眯眼，请注意！

Here then, from three impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statement of the entire case. Considering, therefore, that squalls and capsizings in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my life into the hands of him who steered the boat—oftentimes a fellow who at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling the craft with his own frantic stampings; considering that the particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be imputed to Starbuck’s driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall, and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his great heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this uncommonly prudent Starbuck’s boat; and finally considering in what a devil’s chase I was implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all things together, I say, I thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will. ‘Queequeg,’ said I, ‘come along, you shall be my lawyer, executor, and legatee.’
至此，我从三位公正的证人那里得到了整个案件的经过深思熟虑的陈述。因此，考虑到在水中的暴风雨和倾覆以及随后在深海中的宿营，是这种生活中经常发生的事情；考虑到在前往鲸鱼的最关键时刻，我必须将自己的生命交给掌船者的手中——通常是一个在那个时刻冲动地想要用自己的船凿沉船的人。疯狂的冲压；考虑到我们这艘船所遭受的特殊灾难主要是由于斯塔巴克几乎在暴风雨中赶上了他的鲸鱼，而且考虑到尽管如此，斯塔巴克还是以他在渔业中的高度谨慎而闻名；考虑到我属于这家异常谨慎的星巴克公司；最后，我触摸着白鲸，考虑到自己卷入了一场魔鬼的追逐：把所有的事情放在一起，我说，我想我不妨去下面草拟一下我的遗嘱。 “奎魁格，”我说，“来吧，你将成为我的律师、遗嘱执行人和受遗赠人。”

It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at their last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more fond of that diversion. This was the fourth time in my nautical life that I had done the same thing. After the ceremony was concluded upon the present occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away from my heart. Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good as the days that Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might be. I survived myself; my death and burial were locked up in my chest. I looked round me tranquilly and contentedly, like a quiet ghost with a clean conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug family vault.
水手们竟然会修改他们最后的遗嘱和遗嘱，这似乎很奇怪，但世界上没有人比他们更喜欢这种消遣。这是我航海生涯中第四次做同样的事情。仪式结束后，我的心情轻松多了。我心中的一块石头被滚走了。况且，我现在所过的日子，就和拉撒路复活后所过的日子一样好。视情况而定，补充几个月或几周的净收益。我自己活了下来；我的死亡和埋葬都被锁在我的胸口。我平静而满足地环顾四周，就像一个安静的幽灵，问心无愧地坐在舒适的家庭金库的铁栅栏里。

Now then, thought I, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of my frock, here goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the devil fetch the hindmost.
那么，现在，我想，无意识地卷起我的连衣裙的袖子，在这里冷静地、镇定地俯冲死亡和毁灭，然后魔鬼就会抓住最后的人。

Chapter 50
第50章

Ahab’s Boat and Crew. Fedallah.
亚哈的船和船员。费达拉。

‘Who would have thought it, Flask!’ cried Stubb; ‘if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole with my timber toe. Oh! he’s a wonderful old man!’
“谁会想到呢，弗拉斯克！”斯塔布喊道。 “如果我只有一条腿，你就不会在船上抓住我，除非用我的木脚趾堵住塞孔。哦！他是一位很棒的老人！

‘I don’t think it so strange, after all, on that account,’ said Flask. ‘If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing. That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other left, you know.’
“毕竟，我认为这并不奇怪，”弗拉斯克说。 “如果他的腿从臀部掉下来，现在情况就会不同了。那会让他失去能力；但他只有一个膝盖，另一只膝盖的大部分都在左边，你知道的。”

‘I don’t know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel.’
“我不知道，我的小家伙；我还从未见过他跪下。”

Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering the paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is right for a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils of the chase. So Tamerlane’s soldiers often argued with tears in their eyes, whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the thickest of the fight.
在了解鲸鱼的人们中，经常有人争论，考虑到捕鲸船长的生命对于航行的成功至关重要，捕鲸船长在危险的捕鲸活动中冒着生命危险是否正确。因此，帖木儿的士兵们常常眼含热泪地争论是否应该把他那无价的生命带入最激烈的战斗。

But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect. Considering that with two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger; considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great and extraordinary difficulties; that every individual moment, indeed, then comprises a peril; under these circumstances is it wise for any maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the hunt? As a general thing, the joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly thought not.
但对于亚哈来说，这个问题呈现出一种不同的面貌。考虑到拥有两条腿的人在危险时刻只不过是一个步履蹒跚的尸鬼；考虑到捕鲸总是面临着巨大而非凡的困难；事实上，每个单独的时刻都包含着危险；在这种情况下，任何受伤的人进入捕鲸船进行捕鲸是否明智？一般来说，“裴阔德”号的共同所有者肯定不这么认为。

Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think little of his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes of the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving his orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually apportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt—above all for Captain Ahab to be supplied with five extra men, as that same boat’s crew, he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads of the owners of the Pequod. Therefore he had not solicited a boat’s crew from them, nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head. Nevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all that matter. Until Cabaco’s published discovery, the sailors had little foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line is running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat’s bow for bracing the knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with the carpenter’s chisel gouged out a little here and straightened it a little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much interest and curiosity at the time. But almost everybody supposed that this particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to the ultimate chase of Moby Dick; for he had already revealed his intention to hunt that mortal monster in person. But such a supposition did by no means involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat’s crew being assigned to that boat.
亚哈深知，虽然他在家里的朋友们不会认为他在某些相对无害的追逐过程中为了靠近行动现场并亲自下达命令而上船，但亚哈船长有一个这艘船实际上被分配给他作为狩猎中的常规刽子手——最重要的是，为亚哈船长提供了五名额外的人员，作为同一艘船的船员，他很清楚，这种慷慨的想法从来没有进入过佩阔德号船主的头脑。因此，他没有向他们招募船员，也没有以任何方式暗示他的愿望。尽管如此，他还是对所有这些问题采取了自己的私人措施。 在卡巴科公布这一发现之前，水手们几乎没有预见到这一点，尽管可以肯定的是，在离开港口一段时间后，所有船员都完成了为捕鲸船安装服务的惯例工作；过了一段时间，亚哈时不时地忙着亲手为一艘被认为是备用的船制作大头针，甚至殷勤地切小木串，当线被钉在船头的凹槽上：当在他身上观察到这一切时，特别是他对在船底有一层额外的护套的关心，仿佛是为了让它更好地承受他的尖锐压力象牙肢体；还有他在精确塑造大腿板（或有时被称为笨拙的防滑板）时表现出的焦虑，大腿板是船头的水平部件，用于在冲向或刺向鲸鱼时支撑膝盖；人们观察到，他经常在那条船上站起来，将他唯一的膝盖固定在夹板的半圆形凹陷处，用木匠的凿子这里挖一点，那里拉直一点；我说，所有这些事情在当时引起了很大的兴趣和好奇心。但几乎每个人都认为，亚哈的这种特殊的准备性谨慎一定只是为了最终追逐白鲸；因为他已经表明了要亲自猎杀那凡人怪物的意图。但这样的假设绝不涉及对任何船员被分配到该船上的任何怀疑。

Now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane. Besides, now and then such unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown nooks and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of whalers; and the ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway creatures found tossing about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck, oars, whaleboats, canoes, blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that Beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain, and it would not create any unsubduable excitement in the forecastle.
现在，有了从属的幻影，剩下的奇迹很快就消失了。因为在捕鲸船上，奇迹很快就会消失。此外，时不时地会有一些奇怪的国家从地球上不为人知的角落和灰坑里冒出来，为这些漂浮的捕鲸者提供帮助；船只本身经常会发现这些奇怪的被遗弃的生物，它们在公海中的木板、残骸碎片、桨、捕鲸船、独木舟、被吹毁的日本帆船等上抛来抛去；别西卜本人可能会爬上船舷，下到船舱里与船长聊天，但这不会在艏楼里引起任何不可抑制的兴奋。

But be all this as it may, certain it is that while the subordinate phantoms soon found their place among the crew, though still as it were somehow distinct from them, yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a muffled mystery to the last. Whence he came in a mannerly world like this, by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to be linked with Ahab’s peculiar fortunes; nay, so far as to have some sort of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but it might have been even authority over him; all this none knew. But one cannot sustain an indifferent air concerning Fedallah. He was such a creature as civilized, domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their dreams, and that but dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchanging Asiatic communities, especially the Oriental isles to the east of the continent—those insulated, immemorial, unalterable countries, which even in these modern days still preserve much of the ghostly aboriginalness of earth’s primal generations, when the memory of the first man was a distinct recollection, and all men his descendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as real phantoms, and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created and to what end; when though, according to Genesis, the angels indeed consorted with the daughters of men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins, indulged in mundane amours.
但尽管如此，可以肯定的是，尽管这些从属幻影很快就在船员中找到了自己的位置，尽管仍然与他们有所不同，但那个戴着头巾的费达拉直到最后仍然是一个神秘的谜团。他是从哪里来到这样一个有教养的世界的，通过什么样的莫名其妙的联系，他很快就证明自己与亚哈的特殊命运有关？不，就产生某种半暗示的影响而言；天知道，但这甚至可能是对他的权威；这一切无人知晓。但人们无法忍受对费达拉漠不关心的态度。他是温带文明家庭中的人们只能在梦中看到的生物，但那只是模模糊糊的；但类似的人时不时地在不变的亚洲社区中滑行，特别是在亚洲大陆东部的东方岛屿上——那些与世隔绝的、远古的、不可改变的国家，即使在当今时代，仍然保留着地球原始时代的大部分幽灵般的原住民特征。世代相传，当时第一个人的记忆是清晰的回忆，而他的子孙们，不知道他从哪里来，彼此视对方为真实的幻影，并询问太阳和月亮为什么被创造以及它们的目的是什么；尽管根据《创世记》，天使确实与人类的女儿们交往，但魔鬼们，再加上不合规矩的拉宾们，也沉迷于世俗的恋情。

Chapter 51
第51章

The Spirit-Spout.
灵魂喷口。

Days, weeks passed, and under easy sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly swept across four several cruising-grounds; that off the Azores; off the Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called), being off the mouth of the Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an unstaked, watery locality, southerly from St. Helena.
几天、几周过去了，象牙色的“裴阔德号”在轻松的航行下慢慢地横扫了四个巡航场；亚速尔群岛附近；佛得角附近；在拉普拉塔河口附近的板块（所谓的）上；还有卡罗尔地 (Carrol Ground)，这是一个位于圣赫勒拿岛以南的未立桩、多水的地方。

It was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver; and, by their soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, it looked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from the sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlight nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand a look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day. And yet, though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a hundred would venture a lowering for them. You may think with what emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. But when, after spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. ‘There she blows!’ Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet still they felt no terror; rather pleasure. For though it was a most unwonted hour, yet so impressive was the cry, and so deliriously exciting, that almost every soul on board instinctively desired a lowering.
正是在一个宁静的月光之夜，当它们滑过这些水域时，所有的波浪都像银色的卷轴一样翻滚而过。它们柔和而充满沸腾的气息，营造出一种银白色的寂静，而不是孤独。在这样一个寂静的夜晚，在船头的白色气泡前面很远的地方可以看到一股银色的喷射流。月光照耀下，显得神圣；似乎有一些羽毛闪闪发光的神从海上升起。费达拉首先描述了这架喷气式飞机。在这些月夜里，他习惯爬上主桅杆头，像白天一样精确地站在那里瞭望。然而，尽管夜间能看到成群的鲸鱼，但一百个捕鲸人中没有一个愿意冒险捕鲸。那么，你可能会想，在如此不寻常的时刻，海员们看到这个古老的东方人栖息在高空时，怀着怎样的情感？他的头巾和月亮，同在一个天空。但是，当他连续几个晚上均匀地呆在那里之后，没有发出任何声音；当在这一切寂静之后，听到他那神秘的声音宣布那架银色、月光照亮的喷气式飞机时，每个斜倚的水手都站了起来，仿佛有翅膀的精灵在索具上发光，并向凡人的船员们欢呼。 “她吹响了！”如果审判的号角吹响，他们就不会再颤抖了。但他们仍然没有感到恐惧；相当高兴。虽然这是一个最不寻常的时刻，但那声呼喊却如此令人印象深刻，如此激动人心，几乎船上的每个人都本能地渴望降落。

Walking the deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the t’gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread. The best man in the ship must take the helm. Then, with every mast-head manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the wind. The strange, upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like air beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic influences were struggling in her—one to mount direct to heaven, the other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal. And had you watched Ahab’s face that night, you would have thought that in him also two different things were warring. While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap. On life and death this old man walked. But though the ship so swiftly sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, the eager glances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night. Every sailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.
亚哈以快速、侧身的步伐在甲板上走着，指挥着特勇敢帆和皇家帆，每张帆帆都展开了。船上最好的人必须掌舵。然后，每根桅杆都有人值守，堆积如山的船只顺风滚落。船尾栏杆的微风充满了许多船帆的空洞，有一种奇怪的、起伏的、上升的趋势，使浮力悬停的甲板感觉就像脚下的空气；与此同时，她仍然向前冲去，仿佛有两种对立的力量在她体内挣扎——一种是直接登上天堂，另一种则是偏航地驶向某个水平目标。如果你那天晚上看着亚哈的脸，你会认为他身上也有两种不同的东西在交战。当他的一条活腿在甲板上发出活泼的回声时，他死去的肢体的每一次敲击声都听起来像敲击棺材的声音。这位老人在生与死上行走。尽管船行驶得如此之快，尽管每个人的眼睛都像箭一样射出热切的目光，但那一夜却再也看不到那架银色的喷气机了。每个水手都发誓他见过一次，但不会第二次。

This midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days after, lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it disappeared as if it had never been. And so it served us night after night, till no one heeded it but to wonder at it. Mysteriously jetted into the clear moonlight, or starlight, as the case might be; disappearing again for one whole day, or two days, or three; and somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be advancing still further and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for ever alluring us on.
这个午夜喷水口几乎已经成为一种被遗忘的东西，几天后，瞧！在同样的寂静时刻，它再次被宣布：再次被所有人描述；但当他扬帆追上它时，它又消失了，就像从来没有出现过一样。就这样，它一夜又一夜地为我们服务，直到没有人注意到它，而是对它感到惊奇。神秘地喷射到清澈的月光或星光中，视情况而定；又消失一整天，或两天，或三天；不知怎的，每一次明显的重复似乎都在我们的货车中越走越远，这架孤独的喷气式飞机似乎永远吸引着我们。

Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and in accordance with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many things invested the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore that whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast by one self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick. For a time, there reigned, too, a sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, as if it were treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the monster might turn round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest and most savage seas.
与他们种族自古以来的迷信相一致，也没有按照佩阔德号在许多事情上所表现出的超自然现象，他们并不需要一些无论何时何地都曾发过誓的海员。无论在多么遥远的时间，无论纬度和经度多么遥远，那难以接近的喷水都是由同一头鲸鱼喷出的。还有那头鲸鱼，莫比迪克。有一段时间，这个掠过的幽灵也笼罩着一种特殊的恐惧感，仿佛它在不断地狡诈地向我们招手，以便这个怪物会转身攻击我们，最终将我们撕碎在最遥远的地方。最野蛮的海洋。

These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath all its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as for days and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely mild, that all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed vacating itself of life before our urn-like prow.
这些暂时的忧虑，如此模糊，却又如此可怕，从天气的对比宁静中衍生出一种奇妙的力量，在这一切蓝色温和的背后，有些人认为潜伏着一种邪恶的魅力，就像我们在海上航行的日子一样。如此疲倦、孤独而温和，以至于所有的空间都与我们的复仇使命相悖，在我们瓮般的船头前似乎失去了生命。

But, at last, when turning to the eastward, the Cape winds began howling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long, troubled seas that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
但最后，当我们转向东方时，好望角的风开始在我们周围呼啸，我们在漫长而波涛汹涌的大海上起起落落。当长着象牙的裴阔德号向狂风猛烈地鞠躬，疯狂地撞上黑暗的波浪，直到泡沫片像雨点般的银色碎片飞过她的舷墙时；然后，所有这些荒凉、空虚的生活都消失了，取而代之的是比以前更加惨淡的景象。

Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither before us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. And every morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, as though they deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing appointed to desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and the great mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had bred.
靠近我们的船头，水中奇怪的形状在我们面前窜来窜去。当我们的后方密集地飞翔着难以捉摸的海鸦时。每天早上，我们都能看到成排的鸟栖息在我们的住处。尽管我们大声叫喊，但很长一段时间，它们都顽固地抓住了大麻，就好像它们认为我们的船是一艘漂流的、无人居住的船一样。一个注定要荒凉的东西，因此适合他们无家可归的人的栖息地。黑海剧烈地起伏着，仍然不安地起伏着，仿佛它巨大的潮汐就是良心；伟大的世俗灵魂为自己所孕育的长期罪孽和苦难而感到痛苦和悔恨。

Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye? Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had attended us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, where guilty beings transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed condemned to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat that black air without any horizon. But calm, snow-white, and unvarying; still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky; still beckoning us on from before, the solitary jet would at times be descried.
好望角，他们在呼唤你吗？相反，托门托托角（Cape Tormentoto），正如以前所说的那样；长久以来，我们一直被之前伴随着我们的背信弃义的沉默所吸引，我们发现自己被扔进了这片痛苦的海洋，在那里，有罪的生物变成了那些鸟和这些鱼，似乎注定要永远游泳，没有任何避难所，或者打败那黑色的空气。没有任何地平线。但平静，雪白，不变；仍然将羽毛的喷泉指向天空；时不时会看到那架孤独的喷气式飞机，它仍然像以前一样在向我们招手。

During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab, though assuming for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous deck, manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever addressed his mates. In tempestuous times like these, after everything above and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await the issue of the gale. Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists. So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one hand firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal his very eyelashes together. Meantime, the crew driven from the forward part of the ship by the perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows, stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better to guard against the leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into a sort of bowline secured to the rail, in which he swung as in a loosened belt. Few or no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in wax, day after day tore on through all the swift madness and gladness of the demoniac waves. By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of the ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still wordless Ahab stood up to the blast. Even when wearied nature seemed demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock. Never could Starbuck forget the old man’s aspect, when one night going down into the cabin to mark how the barometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his floor-screwed chair; the rain and half-melted sleet of the storm from which he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat and coat. On the table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides and currents which have previously been spoken of. His lantern swung from his tightly clenched hand. Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back so that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale that swung from a beam in the ceiling.*
在这一切黑暗的天气里，亚哈虽然当时几乎不间断地指挥着这片湿透又危险的甲板，但他却表现出了最阴郁的保留态度。而且比以往任何时候都更少向他的伙伴们讲话。在这样的狂风大作的时候，当上面和高处的一切都固定下来之后，除了被动地等待大风的到来之外，也没有什么办法。然后船长和船员就变成了实际的宿命论者。因此，亚哈将象牙腿插入惯常的洞中，一只手牢牢抓住一块裹尸布，一连好几个小时地站在那里，凝视着迎风的方向，而偶尔的暴风雨或雪几乎把他的睫毛都凝结在一起。与此同时，船员们被猛烈冲破船头的危险海浪从船的前部驱赶出来，沿着腰部的舷墙站成一排；为了更好地防范汹涌的海浪，每个人都把自己滑进一种固定在栏杆上的滚绳里，在里面摇摆，就像在一条松弛的皮带上一样。很少或根本没有说话；这艘寂静的船，仿佛由涂蜡的水手操纵，日复一日地撕扯着恶魔般的波浪的所有迅速的疯狂和欢乐。到了晚上，在大海的尖叫声响起之前，人类同样保持沉默。男人们仍然默默地在碗里荡来荡去。亚哈仍然一言不发地站起来迎接冲击波。即使疲倦的大自然似乎需要休息，他也不会在吊床上寻求休息。 斯塔巴克永远无法忘记这位老人的样子，有一天晚上，当他走进小屋查看气压计的位置时，他看到老人闭着眼睛，笔直地坐在他的地板螺丝椅子上；雨和半融的暴雨雨夹雪已经从他之前的一段时间里出现了，仍然从未脱下的帽子和外套上慢慢地滴下来。他旁边的桌子上铺着一张先前提到过的潮汐和洋流图表。他的灯笼从他紧握的手里摇晃着。虽然身体是直立的，但头向后仰，闭上的眼睛指向从天花板横梁上摆动的告密针。*

*The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the course of the ship.
*船舱指南针被称为“告密者”，因为船长在掌舵处无需查看指南针，就可以在下面了解船舶的航向。

Terrible old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in this gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
可怕的老头！斯塔巴克在这大风中沉睡，心中颤抖着想，你仍然坚定地注视着你的目的。

Chapter 52
第52章

The Albatross.
信天翁。

South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruising ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross) by name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at the fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro in the far ocean fisheries—a whaler at sea, and long absent from home.
从海角向东南方向，在遥远的克罗泽特群岛（Crozetts）附近，那里是右翼捕鲸人的良好巡航场地，前方隐约可见一艘帆，名字叫戈尼（Goney）（信天翁）。当她慢慢地靠近时，我站在前桅杆头的高处，清楚地看到了这一景象，这对于远洋渔业的新手来说是多么引人注目——一个在海上长期远离家乡的捕鲸者。

As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the skeleton of a stranded walrus. All down her sides, this spectral appearance was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over with hoar-frost. Only her lower sails were set. A wild sight it was to see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads. They seemed clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had survived nearly four years of cruising. Standing in iron hoops nailed to the mast, they swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; and though, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.
仿佛海浪更加汹涌，这艘船像搁浅的海象的骨架一样被漂白。在她的两侧，这种幽灵般的外观被长长的红色锈迹所描绘，而她所有的桅杆和索具就像是覆盖着白霜的粗树枝。只挂着下帆。看到她长着长胡子的瞭望员注视着那三个桅杆头，真是一种疯狂的景象。他们似乎披着兽皮，在近四年的航行中幸存下来的衣服被撕裂和打补丁。他们站在钉在桅杆上的铁环上，在深不可测的大海上摇曳。然而，当船慢慢地滑行到我们船尾附近时，我们六个人在空中靠得很近，几乎可以从一艘船的桅顶上跳到另一艘船的桅头上；但是，当船慢慢地滑向我们的船尾时，我们六个人在空中靠得如此之近，以至于我们几乎可以从一艘船的桅杆头上跳到另一艘船的桅杆头上。然而，那些一脸绝望的渔民在经过时温和地看着我们，对我们自己的瞭望员一言不发，而下面却听到尾甲板上的冰雹声。

‘Ship ahoy! Have ye seen the White Whale?’
‘船啊嘿！你看到白鲸了吗？

But as the strange captain, leaning over the pallid bulwarks, was in the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it somehow fell from his hand into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he in vain strove to make himself heard without it. Meantime his ship was still increasing the distance between. While in various silent ways the seamen of the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the first mere mention of the White Whale’s name to another ship, Ahab for a moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat to board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade. But taking advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and knowing by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and shortly bound home, he loudly hailed—‘Ahoy there! This is the Pequod, bound round the world! Tell them to address all future letters to the Pacific ocean! and this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them to address them to—’
但当那位奇怪的船长靠在苍白的舷墙上，正要把喇叭放到嘴边时，喇叭不知怎地从他手里掉进了海里；现在风势猛烈，他徒劳地试图在没有风的情况下让自己听到自己的声音。与此同时，他的船仍在增加之间的距离。当裴阔德号的水手们第一次向另一艘船提到白鲸号的名字时，他们以各种无声的方式表明他们对这一不祥事件的遵守，亚哈停顿了一会儿；如果不是威胁性的风阻止的话，他似乎会放下一艘船来登上这个陌生人。但利用他的上风位置，他再次抓住了喇叭，从她的样子知道这艘陌生的船只是楠塔基特号，即将回家，他大声欢呼——“嘿，那里！”这就是裴廓德号，环游世界！告诉他们以后所有寄往太平洋的信件都必须写到太平洋！这三年了，如果我不在家，请告诉他们写给——”

At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then, in accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish, that for some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted away with what seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and aft with the stranger’s flanks. Though in the course of his continual voyagings Ahab must often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to any monomaniac man, the veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.
就在那一刻，两条尾流相当交叉，然后，几天前一直在我们身边平静地游过的一群群无害的小鱼，立即按照它们独特的方式，带着似乎在颤抖的鱼鳍迅速游开，他们在陌生人的侧翼前后排列。尽管亚哈在不断的航行中肯定经常看到类似的景象，然而，对于任何偏执狂来说，最反复无常的小事都具有意义。

‘Swim away from me, do ye?’ murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water. There seemed but little in the words, but the tone conveyed more of deep helpless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced. But turning to the steersman, who thus far had been holding the ship in the wind to diminish her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice,—‘Up helm! Keep her off round the world!’
“你游离我远点吧？”亚哈低声说道，凝视着水面。言语中似乎没什么内容，但语气却传达出比这个疯老头以前所表现出的更深层次的无助悲伤。但转向舵手时，他用古老的狮子声音喊道：“掌舵！”让她远离世界！

Round the world! There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct? Only through numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those that we left behind secure, were all the time before us.
周游世界！那声音里充满了令人自豪的感觉。但所有这些环球航行都去哪里呢？只有经历了无数的危险，我们才从那一刻开始，那些我们留下的安全的人，一直就在我们面前。

Were this world an endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for ever reach new distances, and discover sights more sweet and strange than any Cyclades or Islands of King Solomon, then there were promise in the voyage. But in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of, or in tormented chase of that demon phantom that, some time or other, swims before all human hearts; while chasing such over this round globe, they either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed.
如果这个世界是一望无际的平原，通过向东航行，我们可以永远到达新的距离，并发现比任何基克拉泽斯群岛或所罗门王群岛更甜蜜和奇怪的景象，那么航行就有希望。但是，在追寻我们梦想的那些遥远的奥秘的过程中，或者在痛苦地追逐那个时不时游走在所有人心前的恶魔幻影的过程中；当我们在这个圆形的地球上追逐这些东西时，它们要么把我们带入荒芜的迷宫，要么中途让我们不知所措。

Chapter 53
第53章

The Gam.
伽姆。

The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened storms. But even had this not been the case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boarded her—judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions—if so it had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained a negative answer to the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain, except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought. But all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other in foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.
亚哈没有登上我们所说的捕鲸船的表面原因是：风和海预示着风暴。但即使不是这样，他也许也不会登上她——从他随后在类似场合的行为来看——如果是这样的话，通过欢呼的过程，他得到了否定的答案他提出的问题。因为，最终的结果是，他不想与任何陌生的船长交往，即使是五分钟，除非他可以贡献一些他如此全神贯注地寻求的信息。但所有这一切可能仍然没有得到充分的估计，如果这里没有提到捕鲸船在外国海域相遇时的特殊用途，特别是在共同的巡航场地上。

If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the equally desolate Salisbury Plain in England; if casually encountering each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life of them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a moment to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the illimitable Pine Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling vessels descrying each other at the ends of the earth—off lone Fanning’s Island, or the far away King’s Mills; how much more natural, I say, that under such circumstances these ships should not only interchange hails, but come into still closer, more friendly and sociable contact. And especially would this seem to be a matter of course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose captains, officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each other; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk about.
如果两个陌生人穿越纽约州的松林贫瘠之地，或者同样荒凉的英格兰索尔兹伯里平原；若是在这荒凉的荒野中偶然相遇，两人终其一生，都难免互相致意。并停下来交换消息；也许，坐下来休息一会儿：那么，在无边无际的松树贫瘠之地和索尔兹伯里平原上，两艘捕鲸船在地球的尽头——在孤独的范宁岛附近互相观察——是多么自然的事，或者遥远的国王磨坊；我说，在这种情况下，这些船只不仅应该互换，而且应该进行更密切、更友好和更友善的接触，这是多么自然啊。尤其是，对于在一个海港拥有的船只，并且其船长、军官以及不少船员彼此认识的情况来说，这似乎是理所当然的事情；因此，有各种可爱的家务事可以谈论。

For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters on board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a date a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn files. And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would receive the latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to which she may be destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her. And in degree, all this will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing each other’s track on the cruising-ground itself, even though they are equally long absent from home. For one of them may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and now far remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people of the ship she now meets. Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have an agreeable chat. For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of sailors, but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a common pursuit and mutually shared privations and perils.
对于那艘长期缺席的船，出境者也许船上有信件；无论如何，她一定会让她在她模糊且拇指磨损的档案中保留一些日期比上一次晚一两年的文件。作为对这种礼遇的回报，出境的船只将从她可能要去的巡航地接收最新的捕鲸情报，这对她来说至关重要。在某种程度上，所有这些都适用于捕鲸船在巡航场地上相互穿越的轨迹，即使它们同样长时间不在家乡。因为其中一艘可能收到了来自第三艘、现在已经很遥远的船只的信件；其中一些信可能是写给她现在遇到的船上的人的。此外，他们还交换捕鲸的消息，愉快地聊天。因为他们不仅会得到水手们的同情，而且会因共同的追求和共同的困难和危险而产生特殊的友谊。

Nor would difference of country make any very essential difference; that is, so long as both parties speak one language, as is the case with Americans and English. Though, to be sure, from the small number of English whalers, such meetings do not very often occur, and when they do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them; for your Englishman is rather reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that sort of thing in anybody but himself. Besides, the English whalers sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the American whalers; regarding the long, lean Nantucketer, with his nondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant. But where this superiority in the English whalemen does really consist, it would be hard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill more whales than all the English, collectively, in ten years. But this is a harmless little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer does not take much to heart; probably, because he knows that he has a few foibles himself.
国家的不同也不会产生任何本质上的差异。也就是说，只要双方都说一种语言，例如美国人和英语。可以肯定的是，对于少数英国捕鲸者来说，这样的聚会并不经常发生，而当它们确实发生时，他们之间很容易出现某种害羞；因为你们的英国人相当保守，而你们的美国人则不喜欢任何人，除了他自己。此外，英国捕鲸者有时会表现出一种相对于美国捕鲸者的都市优越感。身材高大、瘦削的南塔基特人，以及他那不起眼的地方主义，被视为某种海农。但英国捕鲸者的这种优势到底在哪里，很难说，因为洋基队一天内捕杀的鲸鱼数量比所有英国人十年内捕杀的鲸鱼数量还要多。但这对于英国捕鲸者来说是一个无害的小毛病，楠塔基特人并没有太放在心上。可能是因为他知道自己也有一些缺点。

So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the sea, the whalers have most reason to be sociable—and they are so. Whereas, some merchant ships crossing each other’s wake in the mid-Atlantic, will oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition, mutually cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in Broadway; and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon each other’s rig. As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea, they first go through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such a ducking of ensigns, that there does not seem to be much right-down hearty good-will and brotherly love about it at all. As touching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are in such a prodigious hurry, they run away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates, when they chance to cross each other’s cross-bones, the first hail is—‘How many skulls?’—the same way that whalers hail—‘How many barrels?’ And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart, for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don’t like to see overmuch of each other’s villanous likenesses.
因此，我们看到，在所有单独航行的船只中，捕鲸者最有理由进行社交活动——他们确实如此。然而，一些在大西洋中部擦肩而过的商船，往往连一句认不出的话就过去了，在公海上互相伤害，就像百老汇的一对花花公子一样；也许，他们一直沉迷于对彼此的装备进行财务批评。至于军人们，当他们在海上偶然相遇时，他们首先会经历一连串愚蠢的鞠躬和刮擦，以及少尉的躲避，似乎没有太多真诚的善意。和兄弟般的爱。至于奴隶船的相遇，为什么，他们如此匆忙，他们尽快逃离彼此。至于海盗，当他们碰巧交叉骨头时，他们的第一声呼喊是——“有多少头骨？”——就像捕鲸者呼喊的方式一样——“有多少桶？”这个问题一旦得到回答，海盗们就会立即转向。之所以分开，是因为双方都是恶棍，都不喜欢看到对方有太多的恶棍相似之处。

But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable, free-and-easy whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets another whaler in any sort of decent weather? She has a ‘GAM,’ a thing so utterly unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the name even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only grin at it, and repeat gamesome stuff about ‘spouters’ and ‘blubber-boilers,’ and such like pretty exclamations. Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and also all Pirates and Man-of-War’s men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such a scornful feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be hard to answer. Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to know whether that profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about it. It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the gallows. And besides, when a man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has no proper foundation for his superior altitude. Hence, I conclude, that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman, in that assertion the pirate has no solid basis to stand on.
但看看这位虔诚、诚实、谦虚、热情好客、善于交际、自由自在的捕鲸人！当捕鲸者在任何好天气遇到另一位捕鲸者时，她会做什么？她有一个“GAM”，这是所有其他船只完全不知道的东西，他们甚至从未听说过这个名字；如果他们碰巧听到了，他们也只会笑笑，并重复一些诸如“喷水器”和“鲸脂锅炉”之类的有趣的东西，比如漂亮的感叹词。为什么所有的商船水手，以及所有的海盗和战舰水手以及奴隶船的水手，都对捕鲸船抱有如此轻蔑的感情？这是一个很难回答的问题。因为，就海盗而言，我想知道他们的职业是否有什么特殊的荣耀。事实上，有时它会以不寻常的高度结束。但仅限于绞刑架上。此外，当一个人以这种奇怪的方式获得提升时，他的优越地位就没有适当的基础。因此，我的结论是，海盗吹嘘自己比捕鲸人高高在上，这种说法没有坚实的基础。

But what is a GAM? You might wear out your index-finger running up and down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word. Dr. Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster’s ark does not hold it. Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees. Certainly, it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon. With that view, let me learnedly define it.
但什么是 GAM？你可能会在字典的栏目中来回走动，耗尽你的食指，却永远找不到这个词。约翰逊博士从未达到那样的博学。诺亚·韦伯斯特的方舟没有容纳它。然而，这个同样具有表达力的词多年来一直在大约一万五万名真正出生的洋基队中不断使用。当然，它需要一个定义，并且应该被纳入词典中。带着这个观点，让我学识地定义它。

GAM. NOUN—A SOCIAL MEETING OF TWO (OR MORE) WHALESHIPS, GENERALLY ON A CRUISING-GROUND; WHEN, AFTER EXCHANGING HAILS, THEY EXCHANGE VISITS BY BOATS’ CREWS; THE TWO CAPTAINS REMAINING, FOR THE TIME, ON BOARD OF ONE SHIP, AND THE TWO CHIEF MATES ON THE OTHER.
GAM。名词——两艘（或更多）鲸船的社交聚会，通常在巡航场地上举行；当他们交换冰雹后，船员们互访时；两名船长暂时留在一艘船上，两名大副则留在另一艘船上。

There is another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten here. All professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so has the whale fishery. In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when the captain is rowed anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern sheets on a comfortable, sometimes cushioned seat there, and often steers himself with a pretty little milliner’s tiller decorated with gay cords and ribbons. But the whale-boat has no seat astern, no sofa of that sort whatever, and no tiller at all. High times indeed, if whaling captains were wheeled about the water on castors like gouty old aldermen in patent chairs. And as for a tiller, the whale-boat never admits of any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a complete boat’s crew must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or harpooneer is of the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the occasion, and the captain, having no place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit all standing like a pine tree. And often you will notice that being conscious of the eyes of the whole visible world resting on him from the sides of the two ships, this standing captain is all alive to the importance of sustaining his dignity by maintaining his legs. Nor is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, the after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front. He is thus completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent pitch of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth. Merely make a spread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up. Then, again, it would never do in plain sight of the world’s riveted eyes, it would never do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadying himself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with his hands; indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, he generally carries his hands in his trowsers’ pockets; but perhaps being generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them there for ballast. Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well authenticated ones too, where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment or two, in a sudden squall say—to seize hold of the nearest oarsman’s hair, and hold on there like grim death.
还有一个关于赌博的小事在这里一定不能忘记。所有职业都有其细节上的小特点；鲸鱼渔业也是如此。在海盗船、军舰或奴隶船上，当船长在船上的任何地方划船时，他总是坐在船尾床单上舒适的、有时有软垫的座位上，并经常用一个漂亮的小女帽匠的舵柄自己驾驶。用快乐的绳索和丝带装饰。但是捕鲸船的船尾没有座位，没有那种沙发，也根本没有舵柄。如果捕鲸船长们像患有痛风病的老市议员坐在专利椅子上一样，用脚轮在水面上移动，那确实是一个美好的时光。至于舵手，捕鲸船从来不承认有任何这样的女性气质。因此，正如在赌博中，整艘船的船员必须离开船一样，因此，由于船上舵手或鱼叉手是人数众多的，因此，在这种情况下，该下属就是舵手，而船长则没有地方坐，因此被拉下船他来访时，所有人都像一棵松树一样矗立着。你常常会注意到，这位站立的船长意识到整个可见世界的目光都从两艘船的两侧落在他身上，他非常清楚通过保持双腿来维持尊严的重要性。这也不是一件容易的事。因为在他的后方，巨大的突出的转向桨时不时地击中他的后腰，后桨通过敲击他前面的膝盖来往复运动。因此，他的前后完全被楔住，只能通过伸直的双腿坐下来向侧面扩展自己；但船的突然猛烈的颠簸往往会把他击倒，因为如果没有相应的宽度，基础的长度就毫无意义。仅仅将两根杆子张开一个角度，你就无法将它们立起来。 话又说回来，在全世界的目光注视下，这是绝对不行的，我说，绝对不行，让人们看到这位跨骑的船长用手抓住任何东西来稳定自己；事实上，他通常把手插在裤袋里，这体现了他完全的、充满活力的自制力。但也许他的手通常又大又重，所以他把它们带到那里作为压载物。尽管如此，还是有一些例子，而且是经过充分证实的例子，船长因在一两次不同寻常的关键时刻（比如突然的暴风雨）而闻名——抓住最近的桨手的头发，像严酷的死亡一样抓住那儿。

Chapter 54
第54章

The Town-Ho’s Story.
何镇浩的故事。

(AS TOLD AT THE GOLDEN INN)
（据金旅馆所述）

The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is much like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet more travellers than in any other part.
好望角以及周围的所有水域，很像著名的高速公路的四个拐角，在那里您遇到的旅客比其他任何地方都多。

It was not very long after speaking the Goney that another homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho,* was encountered. She was manned almost wholly by Polynesians. In the short gam that ensued she gave us strong news of Moby Dick. To some the general interest in the White Whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho’s story, which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a certain wondrous, inverted visitation of one of those so called judgments of God which at times are said to overtake some men. This latter circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming what may be called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part of the story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself. It was the private property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secrecy, but the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed so much of it in that way, that when he was wakened he could not well withhold the rest. Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing have on those seamen in the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of it, and by such a strange delicacy, to call it so, were they governed in this matter, that they kept the secret among themselves so that it never transpired abaft the Pequod’s main-mast. Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story as publicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now proceed to put on lasting record.
说完戈尼语后不久，又遇到了另一位回家的捕鲸人，镇浩*。她几乎全部由波利尼西亚人驾驶。在接下来的短暂游戏中，她给了我们关于莫比迪克的好消息。对于一些人来说，现在对白鲸的普遍兴趣因镇浩故事的一个情况而大大提高了，这个故事似乎隐晦地与鲸鱼有关，所谓的上帝审判之一的某种奇妙的、反向的拜访，有时是说要超越一些人。后一种情况及其特殊的伴奏，构成了即将讲述的悲剧的秘密部分，但从未传到亚哈船长或他的伙伴们的耳中。因为镇河号的船长本人并不知道这个故事的秘密部分。这是那艘船上三名同盟白人海员的私有财产，其中一人似乎用罗马天主教的保密禁令将其传达给了塔什特戈，但第二天晚上塔什特戈在睡梦中闲聊，并以这种方式透露了很多内容，当他醒来时，他无法很好地克制其余的事情。然而，这件事对裴廓德号上的那些水手产生了如此强大的影响，他们完全了解了这件事，并且通过如此奇怪的微妙，如此称呼它，如果他们在这件事上受到管辖，他们将这个秘密保守在众人之中。因此它永远不会发生在“裴阔德”号主桅杆后面。将这条黑暗的线索与船上公开讲述的故事交织在适当的位置，我现在将这整个奇怪的事件永久记录下来。

*The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head, still used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
*古老的鲸鱼在第一次从桅杆头看到鲸鱼时发出的叫声，至今仍被捕鲸者用来捕猎著名的加利帕戈斯水龟。

For my humor’s sake, I shall preserve the style in which I once narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish friends, one saint’s eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the Golden Inn. Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, were on the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they occasionally put, and which are duly answered at the time.
为了幽默起见，我将保留我曾经在利马向一群闲逛的西班牙朋友讲述这件事的风格，那是一个圣夜，我在金色旅馆的厚镀金瓷砖广场上抽烟。在这些优秀的骑士中，年轻的唐斯、佩德罗和塞巴斯蒂安与我的关系比较密切。因此，他们偶尔会提出一些插话，并在当时得到适当的回答。

‘Some two years prior to my first learning the events which I am about rehearsing to you, gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler of Nantucket, was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days’ sail eastward from the eaves of this good Golden Inn. She was somewhere to the northward of the Line. One morning upon handling the pumps, according to daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But the captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck awaited him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit them, and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though, indeed, they could not find it after searching the hold as low down as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals; but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was the leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, that now taking some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for the nearest harbor among the islands, there to have his hull hove out and repaired.
“先生们，在我第一次了解到我要向你们排练的事件之前大约两年，楠塔基特岛的抹香捕鲸者镇浩号正在你们的太平洋上巡航，从这里的屋檐向东航行了没几天的时间。不错的金旅。她位于地铁线以北的某个地方。一天早上，根据日常使用情况，在操作泵时，观察到她在货舱中产生的水比平常多。先生们，他们认为是剑鱼刺伤了她。但船长有一些不寻常的理由相信在这些纬度上有难得的好运在等待着他；因此，他们非常不愿意离开，而且当时并不认为泄漏有任何危险，尽管事实上，他们在相当恶劣的天气下尽可能低地搜索了货舱后却找不到泄漏，但船仍然继续巡航，水手们以宽阔且轻松的间隔在泵上工作；但好运却没有降临；又过了几天，泄漏不仅没有被发现，而且明显增加了。正因如此，船长现在感到有些惊慌，于是全员起航，前往群岛中最近的港口，在那里将船体拉出并修理。

‘Though no small passage was before her, yet, if the commonest chance favoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the way, because his pumps were of the best, and being periodically relieved at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep the ship free; never mind if the leak should double on her. In truth, well nigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes, the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the brutal overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly provoked vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.
虽然她面前的通道并不小，但是，如果最常见的机会有利，他根本不担心他的船会在途中沉没，因为他的水泵是最好的，并且会定期对它们进行缓解，那六个-他的三十个人可以轻易地让船保持自由；没关系，泄漏是否会加倍发生在她身上。事实上，几乎整个航道都伴随着非常强劲的微风，如果不是雷德尼的残暴专横，镇浩号几乎肯定安全抵达港口，没有发生任何死亡事件。 ，大副，一位葡萄园主，以及来自布法罗的莱克曼和亡命之徒斯蒂尔基尔特的激烈报复。

‘‘Lakeman!—Buffalo! Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?’ said Don Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.
“莱克曼！——布法罗！请问，什么是莱克曼，布法罗在哪里？”唐·塞巴斯蒂安一边说，一边在摇摆的草垫上站了起来。

‘On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie, Don; but—I crave your courtesy—may be, you shall soon hear further of all that. Now, gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships, well-nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far Manilla; this Lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean. For in their interflowing aggregate, those grand fresh-water seas of ours,—Erie, and Ontario, and Huron, and Superior, and Michigan,—possess an ocean-like expansiveness, with many of the ocean’s noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties of races and of climes. They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles, even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored by two great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East, dotted all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries, and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they yield their beaches to wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests, where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies; those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey, and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float alike the full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the steamer, and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are, for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew. Thus, gentlemen, though an inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured; as much of an audacious mariner as any. And for Radney, though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea; though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh from the latitudes of buck-horn handled bowie-knives. Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet by inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human recognition which is the meanest slave’s right; thus treated, this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile. At all events, he had proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and Steelkilt—but, gentlemen, you shall hear.
“在我们伊利湖的东岸，唐；但是——我恳求你的礼貌——也许你很快就会听到更多关于这一切的消息。现在，先生们，乘坐方帆双桅船和三桅船，几乎和从你们的老卡亚俄驶向遥远的马尼拉的任何一艘船一样大和坚固；这位生活在美国内陆中心的莱克曼，一直受到那些普遍与公海有关的农业掠夺印象的熏陶。因为，我们这些广阔的淡水海——伊利海、安大略海、休伦海、苏必利尔海和密歇根海——在它们相互流动的集合体中，拥有海洋般的广阔性，具有许多海洋最崇高的特征；有着许多种族和气候的边缘变化。 它们包含浪漫岛屿的圆形群岛，就像波利尼西亚水域一样；大部分地区都毗邻两个截然不同的国家，就像大西洋一样；它们为我们从东方到达众多领土殖民地提供了漫长的海上通道，这些殖民地遍布其沿岸；到处都被炮台和高耸的麦基诺山上崎岖不平的山羊大炮所讨厌。他们听到了海军胜利的舰队轰鸣声；他们时不时地把海滩让给野蛮的野蛮人，他们的红脸从他们简陋的棚屋里闪现出来。因为，数里格的两侧都是古老而无人涉足的森林，那里稀疏的松树矗立着，就像哥特式家谱中国王的排列一样。那些树林里栖息着非洲的野生猛兽和丝绸动物，它们的毛皮出口给鞑靼皇帝做长袍；它们反映了布法罗和克利夫兰的首府以及温尼贝戈的村庄；它们像装备齐全的商船、国家武装巡洋舰、轮船和山毛榉独木舟一样漂浮；他们被北风的风暴席卷，摧毁桅杆的狂风与冲击咸海的浪潮一样可怕。他们知道什么是沉船事故，因为在陆地看不见的地方，无论多么内陆，他们都淹没了许多午夜的船只和所有尖叫的船员。因此，先生们，尽管斯蒂尔基尔特是内陆人，但它却是在狂野的海洋中诞生、在狂野的海洋中孕育的；和任何一个勇敢的水手一样。对于拉德尼来说，虽然在他还是婴儿的时候，他可能把他放在了孤独的楠塔基特海滩上，在他母亲的大海里哺乳；尽管在死后他早已跟随我们严峻的大西洋和你们沉思的太平洋；然而，他就像那些刚从鹿角柄鲍伊刀的纬度上刚经历过的边远地区的水手一样，充满了报复心和充满了社会争吵。 然而，这个楠塔基特人是否具有一些善良的品质？而这个莱克曼，一个水手，虽然确实是一个魔鬼，但他可能会因不屈不挠的坚定而变得坚强，只有通过人类认可的普遍正派来调和，这是最卑贱的奴隶的权利；经过这样的处理，这条钢裙长期以来一直保持着无害且温顺的状态。无论如何，到目前为止他已经证明了这一点。但拉德尼注定要发疯，还有斯蒂尔基尔特——但是，先生们，你们会听到的。

‘It was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing her prow for her island haven, that the Town-Ho’s leak seemed again increasing, but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumps every day. You must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping their whole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it, on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom. Nor in the solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it altogether unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie along a tolerably accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat is afforded them. It is only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of the way part of those waters, some really landless latitude, that her captain begins to feel a little anxious.
“在她的船头指向她的岛屿避风港后，最远不到一两天，Town-Ho号的泄漏似乎再次增加，但只是为了每天需要一个小时或更长时间在泵上。你必须知道，例如，在像大西洋这样的定居和文明的海洋中，一些船长并不认为他们会全程用泵横渡它。尽管是一个寂静、昏昏欲睡的夜晚，但如果甲板上的军官碰巧忘记了他在这方面的职责，那么他和他的船员们很可能永远不会再记住这一点，因为所有的手都轻轻地沉到了底部。先生们，在远离你们的西边荒凉而汹涌的大海上，即使在相当长的航程中，船只不断齐声敲打泵手柄也不是完全不寻常的；也就是说，如果它位于一个可以进入的海岸，或者如果有任何其他合理的撤退给他们。只有当一艘漏水的船只位于这些水域的某个非常偏僻的地方、某个真正没有陆地的纬度时，她的船长才会开始感到有点焦虑。

‘Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was found gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by several of her company; especially by Radney the mate. He commanded the upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way expanded to the breeze. Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a coward, and as little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness touching his own person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or on sea that you can conveniently imagine, gentlemen. Therefore when he betrayed this solicitude about the safety of the ship, some of the seamen declared that it was only on account of his being a part owner in her. So when they were working that evening at the pumps, there was on this head no small gamesomeness slily going on among them, as they stood with their feet continually overflowed by the rippling clear water; clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen—that bubbling from the pumps ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the lee scupper-holes.
“镇浩号的情况大致如此；因此，当她的泄密再次被发现时，她的几个同事确实表现出了一些小小的担忧。尤其是大副拉德尼。他命令上层帆充分升起，重新铺好，一切都向微风扩展。现在，我想，这个拉德尼并不是一个胆小鬼，也不像陆地或海上任何无所畏惧、不假思索的生物一样，先生们，你可以方便地想象到，他自己也不太倾向于任何形式的紧张忧虑。因此，当他流露出对船舶安全的关心时，一些海员声称这只是因为他是这艘船的部分所有者。因此，那天晚上，当他们在水泵旁工作时，他们之间就在这一点上进行着不小的游戏，因为他们站着，双脚不断地被碧波荡漾的清澈水淹没；先生们，像任何山泉一样清澈——从水泵里冒出的气泡流过甲板，并在背风排水孔处稳定地喷出。

‘Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this conventional world of ours—watery or otherwise; that when a person placed in command over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a chance he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern’s tower, and make a little heap of dust of it. Be this conceit of mine as it may, gentlemen, at all events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a head like a Roman, and a flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings of your last viceroy’s snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and a soul in him, gentlemen, which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he been born son to Charlemagne’s father. But Radney, the mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn, as malicious. He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.
“现在，正如你所知，在我们这个传统的世界中，无论是水世界还是其他世界，这种情况并不少见；当一个指挥他的同胞的人发现其中一个人在男子气概的自豪感上明显优于他时，他就会立即对这个人产生一种无法克服的厌恶和怨恨；如果有机会，他会把那座副官的塔推倒并粉碎，让它化为一堆灰尘。不管我的想法如何，先生们，无论如何，斯蒂尔基尔特都是一头高大而高贵的动物，有着罗马人的头颅，金色的胡须就像你们上任总督的喷鼻战马的流苏外壳。先生们，他身上有一个大脑、一颗心和一个灵魂，如果他是查理曼父亲的儿子，这些就造就了斯蒂尔基尔特查理曼。但大副拉德尼却丑得像头骡子。但同样坚强、同样固执、同样恶毒。他不爱斯蒂尔基尔特，而斯蒂尔基尔特也知道这一点。

‘Espying the mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the rest, the Lakeman affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with his gay banterings.
当看到大副正在和其他人一起在水泵上辛苦劳作时，莱克曼假装没有注意到他，但并不感到惊讶，继续他的同性恋玩笑。

‘‘Aye, aye, my merry lads, it’s a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one of ye, and let’s have a taste. By the Lord, it’s worth bottling! I tell ye what, men, old Rad’s investment must go for it! he had best cut away his part of the hull and tow it home. The fact is, boys, that sword-fish only began the job; he’s come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters, saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of ‘em are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom; making improvements, I suppose. If old Rad were here now, I’d tell him to jump overboard and scatter ‘em. They’re playing the devil with his estate, I can tell him. But he’s a simple old soul,—Rad, and a beauty too. Boys, they say the rest of his property is invested in looking-glasses. I wonder if he’d give a poor devil like me the model of his nose.’
“是啊，是啊，我快乐的小伙子们，这是一次生动的泄密；你们中的一个，拿着一块罐头，让我们尝尝。天哪，它值得装瓶！我告诉你们，伙计们，老拉德的投资一定要成功！他最好切掉船体的一部分并将其拖回家。孩子们，事实是剑鱼才刚刚开始这项工作；他又回来了，带着一帮船木匠、锯鱼、锉鱼等等；现在，他们的整个队伍正在努力地在底部进行切割和砍伐；我想，正在做出改进。如果老拉德现在在这里，我会告诉他跳下船，把他们驱散。我可以告诉他，他们正在利用他的财产作恶。但他是一个简单的老灵魂——拉德，而且也是一个美人。孩子们，他们说他的其余财产都投资在眼镜上了。我想知道他是否愿意给像我这样的可怜人一个鼻子模型。

‘‘Damn your eyes! what’s that pump stopping for?’ roared Radney, pretending not to have heard the sailors’ talk. ‘Thunder away at it!’
「你的眼睛该死！ “泵停下来干什么？”拉德尼咆哮道，假装没有听到水手们的谈话。 “雷霆万钧！”

‘Aye, aye, sir,’ said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket. ‘Lively, boys, lively, now!’ And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines; the men tossed their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping of the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life’s utmost energies.
“是啊，是啊，先生，”斯蒂尔基尔特说，高兴得像只蟋蟀。 “快点，孩子们，快点！”说完，水泵像五十辆消防车一样叮当作响。人们向它脱帽致意，不久就听到了肺部特有的喘息声，这表明生命的最大能量达到了最充分的张力。

‘Quitting the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went forward all panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face fiery red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his brow. Now what cozening fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney to meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperated state, I know not; but so it happened. Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate commanded him to get a broom and sweep down the planks, and also a shovel, and remove some offensive matters consequent upon allowing a pig to run at large.
“湖人终于和他的乐队的其他人一起关掉了水泵，气喘吁吁地向前走，坐在绞盘上；他的脸涨得通红，眼睛布满血丝，擦着额头上的大汗。现在，先生们，到底是一个多么狡猾的恶魔，让拉德尼在肉体愤怒的状态下对这样一个人进行干涉，我不知道。但事情就这样发生了。大副令人难以忍受地大步走在甲板上，命令他拿把扫帚扫下木板，又拿来铲子，清除因放任猪逃跑而产生的一些令人不快的东西。

‘Now, gentlemen, sweeping a ship’s deck at sea is a piece of household work which in all times but raging gales is regularly attended to every evening; it has been known to be done in the case of ships actually foundering at the time. Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-usages and the instinctive love of neatness in seamen; some of whom would not willingly drown without first washing their faces. But in all vessels this broom business is the prescriptive province of the boys, if boys there be aboard. Besides, it was the stronger men in the Town-Ho that had been divided into gangs, taking turns at the pumps; and being the most athletic seaman of them all, Steelkilt had been regularly assigned captain of one of the gangs; consequently he should have been freed from any trivial business not connected with truly nautical duties, such being the case with his comrades. I mention all these particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood between the two men.
“现在，先生们，在海上清扫船甲板是一项家务活，除了狂风大作之外，每天晚上都要定期进行这项工作；众所周知，在当时确实有船只沉没的情况下就会这样做。先生们，这就是航海习惯的顽固性和海员对整洁的本能热爱。有些人不先洗脸就不愿意淹死。但在所有船只中，如果船上有男孩的话，扫帚生意就是男孩们的规定范围。此外，镇河镇里体力较壮的人也被分成了几个帮派，轮流在水泵旁工作。作为他们中最有运动能力的海员，斯蒂尔基尔特经常被任命为其中一个帮派的队长。因此，他应该摆脱任何与真正航海职责无关的琐事，他的战友就是这样。我提到所有这些细节，是为了让你们能够准确地了解这件事在这两个人之间的关系。

‘But there was more than this: the order about the shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though Radney had spat in his face. Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully comprehended when the mate uttered his command. But as he sat still for a moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate’s malignant eye and perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all this, that strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper passionateness in any already ireful being—a repugnance most felt, when felt at all, by really valiant men even when aggrieved—this nameless phantom feeling, gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.
但事情还不止这些：关于铲子的命令几乎是为了刺痛和侮辱斯蒂尔基尔特，就像拉德尼向他脸上吐口水一样。任何曾经在捕鲸船上当过水手的人都会明白这一点。当大副说出他的命令时，湖人完全理解了这一切，毫无疑问还有更多。但当他一动不动地坐了一会儿，坚定地看着大副恶毒的眼睛，看到他身上堆满了成堆的火药桶，而慢火柴正静静地向他们燃烧时；当他本能地看到这一切时，那种奇怪的克制和不愿激起任何本已愤怒的人更深层次的激情——真正勇敢的人即使在受到委屈时，也会感到最反感——这种无名的幻觉，先生们，偷走了超过钢裙。

‘Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a little broken by the bodily exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him saying that sweeping the deck was not his business, and he would not do it. And then, without at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as the customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little or nothing all day. To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his command; meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an uplifted cooper’s club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.
‘所以，他用平常的语气，只是因为暂时的身体疲惫而有点破碎，回答他说，扫甲板不是他的事，他不会做。然后，他根本没有提到铲子，而是指着三个小伙子，他们是习惯性的清扫工。他们没有住在水泵旁，一整天几乎没有做什么事情。对此，拉德尼以最霸道、最无耻的方式宣誓，无条件地重申了他的命令；与此同时，他向仍然坐着的莱克曼逼近，手里举起了他从附近一个木桶里抢来的库珀俱乐部锤子。

‘Heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for all his first nameless feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt could but ill brook this bearing in the mate; but somehow still smothering the conflagration within him, without speaking he remained doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the incensed Radney shook the hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to do his bidding.
“尽管他因在水泵上的间歇性劳作而感到焦躁和恼怒，尽管他第一次感受到了无名的忍耐，大汗淋漓的斯蒂尔基尔特却无法忍受大副的这种态度；但不知怎的，他仍然压抑着内心的火焰，一言不发，顽强地坐在座位上，直到最后，愤怒的拉德尼在距离他脸几英寸的地方摇动锤子，愤怒地命令他执行他的命令。

‘Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating round the windlass, steadily followed by the mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeated his intention not to obey. Seeing, however, that his forbearance had not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it was to no purpose. And in this way the two went once slowly round the windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer:
斯蒂尔基尔特起身，绕着起锚机慢慢后退，大副带着凶狠的锤子紧随其后，故意重复他不服从的意图。然而，看到他的忍耐没有丝毫效果，他用扭曲的手发出可怕的、难以言表的暗示，警告这个愚蠢而痴情的人离开。但这毫无意义。就这样，两人慢慢地绕着绞车转了一圈。当湖人最终决定不再撤退时，想到他现在已经克制了自己的幽默感，他在舱口处停了下来，对军官说道：

‘‘Mr. Radney, I will not obey you. Take that hammer away, or look to yourself.’ But the predestinated mate coming still closer to him, where the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of insufferable maledictions. Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in the eye with the unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back, told his persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt) would murder him. But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter by the gods. Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant the lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch spouting blood like a whale.
''先生。拉德尼，我不会听你的。把那把锤子拿开，或者你自己看看。”但是，命中注定的伴侣离他更近了，莱克曼站在那里，现在把沉重的锤子摇到离他牙齿一英寸的地方；同时重复着一连串令人难以忍受的咒骂。退无可退千分之一寸；斯蒂尔基尔特用毫不畏缩的目光刺中了他的眼睛，他在身后握紧了右手，然后又悄悄地抽了回来，告诉迫害者，如果锤子擦过他的脸颊，他（斯蒂尔基尔特）就会谋杀他。但是，先生们，这个傻瓜已经被诸神打上了屠杀的烙印。锤子立刻就碰到了脸颊；下一瞬间，大副的下颌就被火烧般地顶在了他的头上。他倒在舱口上，像鲸鱼一样喷出鲜血。

‘Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of the backstays leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing their mastheads. They were both Canallers.
“喊声还没传到船尾，斯蒂尔基尔特就摇晃着一根后支索，一直延伸到高处，他的两名战友正站在桅顶上。他们都是卡纳勒人。

‘‘Canallers!’ cried Don Pedro. ‘We have seen many whale-ships in our harbours, but never heard of your Canallers. Pardon: who and what are they?’
“卡纳勒斯！”唐·佩德罗喊道。 “我们在我们的港口见过许多捕鲸船，但从未听说过你们的卡纳勒船。请原谅：他们是谁、是什么？

‘‘Canallers, Don, are the boatmen belonging to our grand Erie Canal. You must have heard of it.’
“唐，运河人是属于我们伟大的伊利运河的船夫。你一定听说过。

‘‘Nay, Senor; hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary land, we know but little of your vigorous North.’
“不，先生；在这片乏味、温暖、最懒惰、世袭的土地上，我们对你们充满活力的北方知之甚少。

‘‘Aye? Well then, Don, refill my cup. Your chicha’s very fine; and ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our Canallers are; for such information may throw side-light upon my story.’
” “是吗？那么，唐，给我的杯子续满。你的奇恰非常好；在继续之前，我将告诉你们我们的卡纳勒人是什么；因为这些信息可能会给我的故事带来一些侧面的启发。

‘For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire breadth of the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and most thriving villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and affluent, cultivated fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room and bar-room; through the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman arches over Indian rivers; through sun and shade; by happy hearts or broken; through all the wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk counties; and especially, by rows of snow-white chapels, whose spires stand almost like milestones, flows one continual stream of Venetianly corrupt and often lawless life. There’s your true Ashantee, gentlemen; there howl your pagans; where you ever find them, next door to you; under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronising lee of churches. For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your metropolitan freebooters that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so sinners, gentlemen, most abound in holiest vicinities.
“先生们，三百六十英里，穿过整个纽约州；穿过无数人口稠密的城市和最繁荣的村庄；穿过漫长、荒凉、无人居住的沼泽，以及肥沃、肥沃的耕地；台球室和酒吧室；穿过大森林的至圣之地；印度河流上的罗马拱门；穿过阳光和阴影；快乐的心或破碎的心；穿过那些高贵的莫霍克县的所有对比鲜明的风景；特别是，在一排排雪白的教堂旁边，其尖顶几乎像里程碑一样矗立，威尼斯腐败且常常无法无天的生活源源不断地流淌着。先生们，这就是你们真正的阿桑蒂；你们的异教徒在那里嚎叫；在你曾经找到过他们的地方，就在你的隔壁；在长长的阴影和教堂舒适的居高临下的背风下。因为有一些奇怪的宿命，正如人们经常注意到的那样，你们的都市强盗总是在司法大厅周围扎营，所以罪人，先生们，大多数都在最神圣的附近。

‘‘Is that a friar passing?’ said Don Pedro, looking downwards into the crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
“那是一位修道士经过吗？”唐·佩德罗说道，他低头看着拥挤的广场，带着幽默的关切。

‘‘Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella’s Inquisition wanes in Lima,’ laughed Don Sebastian. ‘Proceed, Senor.’
“对我们的北方朋友来说，好吧，伊莎贝拉夫人的宗教裁判所在利马衰落了，”唐·塞巴斯蒂安笑道。 “继续，先生。”

‘‘A moment! Pardon!’ cried another of the company. ‘In the name of all us Limeese, I but desire to express to you, sir sailor, that we have by no means overlooked your delicacy in not substituting present Lima for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison. Oh! do not bow and look surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast—‘Corrupt as Lima.’ It but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than billiard-tables, and for ever open—and ‘Corrupt as Lima.’ So, too, Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St. Mark!—St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, you pour out again.’
''片刻！对不起！”公司的另一个人喊道。 “以我们所有利姆人的名义，我只想向您表示，水手先生，我们决没有忽视您的精致，在您腐败的比较中没有用现在的利马代替遥远的威尼斯。哦！不要鞠躬并表现出惊讶的样子；你知道沿海地区有句谚语——“像利马一样腐败”。这也证实了你的说法；教堂比台球桌还多，而且永远开放——而且“像利马一样腐败”。威尼斯也是如此；我去过那里;受祝福的福音传道者圣马可的圣城！多米尼克，清除它！你的杯子！谢谢：我在这里补充；现在，你又倒出来了。”

‘Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller would make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is he. Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore, all this effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features. A terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities. Once a vagabond on his own canal, I have received good turns from one of these Canallers; I thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the prime redeeming qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy one. In sum, gentlemen, what the wildness of this canal life is, is emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so many of its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of mankind, except Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whaling captains. Nor does it at all diminish the curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our rural boys and young men born along its line, the probationary life of the Grand Canal furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a Christian corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric seas.
“先生们，如果按照自己的职业自由地描绘卡纳勒，他将成为一位出色的戏剧英雄，他的邪恶如此丰富，如此美丽。就像马克·安东尼一样，他日复一日地沿着绿草如茵、鲜花盛开的尼罗河，懒洋洋地漂浮着，公然地玩弄着他红颊的克利奥帕特拉，在阳光明媚的甲板上成熟了他杏色的大腿。但到了岸上，所有这些女性气质都破灭了。卡纳勒号如此自豪地表现出强盗的伪装；他那顶无精打采、饰有华丽缎带的帽子彰显出他雄伟的面容。对他漂流经过的那些微笑纯真的村庄来说，这是一种恐惧；他那黝黑的面容和大胆的招摇在城市里并不少见。我曾经在自己的运河上当过流浪者，后来从这些运河人那里得到了很好的帮助。我衷心感谢他；我宁愿不忘恩负义；但暴力之人的主要救赎品质之一往往是，有时他会用僵硬的手臂来支持一个陷入困境的可怜的陌生人，就像掠夺一个富有的人一样。总而言之，先生们，运河生活的狂野程度由此可见一斑。我们的野生鲸鱼捕捞业拥有如此多最优秀的毕业生，除了悉尼人之外，几乎没有哪个人类种族如此受到我们的捕鲸船长的不信任。这也丝毫没有减弱这个问题的好奇心，即对于我们沿线出生的成千上万的农村男孩和年轻人来说，大运河的试用生活提供了在基督教玉米地里静静收割和在基督教玉米地里安静收割之间的唯一过渡。不顾一切地在最野蛮的海洋中耕作。

‘‘I see! I see!’ impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his chicha upon his silvery ruffles. ‘No need to travel! The world’s one Lima. I had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold and holy as the hills.—But the story.’
''我懂了！我明白了！”唐·佩德罗急躁地喊道，将奇恰酒洒在银色的褶边上。 ‘不需要旅行！世界只有一个利马。我原以为，现在，在你们气候温和的北方，世代像山丘一样寒冷而神圣。——但是这个故事。

‘I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman shook the backstay. Hardly had he done so, when he was surrounded by the three junior mates and the four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck. But sliding down the ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into the uproar, and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle. Others of the sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil ensued; while standing out of harm’s way, the valiant captain danced up and down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck. At intervals, he ran close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into the heart of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his resentment. But Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them all; they succeeded in gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large casks in a line with the windlass, these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves behind the barricade.
“先生们，我在莱克曼摇晃后支索的地方结束了。他刚这样做，就被三名小副和四名标枪手包围，他们都把他挤到了甲板上。但是，两个卡纳勒人像凶恶的彗星一样顺着绳索滑下来，冲进了喧嚣之中，试图将他们的人从那里拖向艏楼。其他水手也加入了他们的行列，随后发生了一场扭曲的骚乱。当这位英勇的船长站在远离危险的地方时，他拿着一根鲸鱼矛上下跳舞，呼吁他的军官们对这个残暴的恶棍进行粗暴对待，并把他熏到尾甲板上。他时不时地跑到混乱的旋转边界附近，用长矛刺入混乱的核心，试图刺出他怨恨的对象。但斯蒂尔基尔特和他的亡命之徒对他们来说实在是太难以承受了。他们成功地占领了艏楼甲板，这些巴黎海上人匆匆将三四个大木桶与起锚机排成一排，在路障后面扎根。

‘‘Come out of that, ye pirates!’ roared the captain, now menacing them with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the steward. ‘Come out of that, ye cut-throats!’
“滚开，你们这些海盗！”船长咆哮道，他双手各握一把服务员刚刚递给他的手枪，威胁着他们。 “你们这些凶手，快出来吧！”

‘Steelkilt leaped on the barricade, and striding up and down there, defied the worst the pistols could do; but gave the captain to understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt’s) death would be the signal for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands. Fearing in his heart lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their duty.
“斯蒂尔基尔特跳上路障，大步走来走去，无视手枪的最坏威力；但让船长清楚地明白，他（斯蒂尔基尔特）的死将是全体船员进行凶残叛变的信号。上尉心里担心这可能被证明是太真实了，所以有点停止，但仍然命令叛乱分子立即返回他们的职责。

‘‘Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?’ demanded their ringleader.
“如果我们这样做了，你能保证不碰我们吗？”他们的头目问道。

‘‘Turn to! turn to!—I make no promise;—to your duty! Do you want to sink the ship, by knocking off at a time like this? Turn to!’ and he once more raised a pistol.
” 转向！转向！——我不做任何承诺；——履行你的职责！难道你想在这种时候把船撞沉吗？转向！”他再次举起手枪。

‘‘Sink the ship?’ cried Steelkilt. ‘Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. What say ye, men?’ turning to his comrades. A fierce cheer was their response.
“击沉船？”斯蒂尔基尔特喊道。 ‘是啊，让她沉下去吧。除非你发誓不向我们发起绳索，否则我们中没有人会求助。你们怎么说？”转向他的战友们。回应他们的是一阵激烈的欢呼。

‘The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eye on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these:—‘It’s not our fault; we didn’t want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was boy’s business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to prick the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his cursed jaw; ain’t those mincing knives down in the forecastle there, men? look to those handspikes, my hearties. Captain, by God, look to yourself; say the word; don’t be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to turn to; treat us decently, and we’re your men; but we won’t be flogged.’
“莱克曼现在在路障里巡逻，同时眼睛一直盯着上尉，嘴里突然脱口而出这样的句子：——‘这不是我们的错；我们的错是我们的错。我们不想要它；我叫他把锤子拿开；这是男孩的事；他可能在此之前就认识我了；我告诉他不要刺伤水牛；我相信我在他那该死的下巴上折断了一根手指；伙计们，艏楼里不是有那些切肉刀吗？看看那些手钉，我的心肝宝贝。船长，上帝发誓，你自己看看吧；说出这个词；别傻了；忘记这一切；我们准备好转向；对我们好一点，我们就是你的人；但我们不会被鞭打。

‘‘Turn to! I make no promises, turn to, I say!’
” 转向！我不做任何承诺，转向，我说！

‘‘Look ye, now,’ cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him, ‘there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who have shipped for the cruise, d’ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don’t want a row; it’s not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we won’t be flogged.’
“你看，现在，”湖人向他伸出手臂喊道，“我们这里有几个人（我也是其中之一）已经乘船去巡游了，你瞧；现在，正如您所知道的，先生，一旦锚落下，我们就可以要求卸货；所以我们不想吵架；这不是我们的兴趣；我们想要和平；我们已经准备好工作，但我们不会被鞭打。”

‘‘Turn to!’ roared the Captain.
“转向！”船长吼道。

‘Steelkilt glanced round him a moment, and then said:—‘I tell you what it is now, Captain, rather than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby rascal, we won’t lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us; but till you say the word about not flogging us, we don’t do a hand’s turn.’
斯蒂尔基尔特环视了他一会儿，然后说道：“我告诉你现在是什么情况，船长，与其杀了你，然后因为这样一个卑鄙的流氓而被绞死，我们不会对你出手，除非你攻击我们。”我们;但除非你说不鞭打我们，否则我们不会动手。”

‘‘Down into the forecastle then, down with ye, I’ll keep ye there till ye’re sick of it. Down ye go.’
“那么，到艏楼下去，和你们一起下去，我会把你们留在那里，直到你们厌倦为止。”你们下去吧。

‘‘Shall we?’ cried the ringleader to his men. Most of them were against it; but at length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down into their dark den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.
“我们可以吗？”头目对他的手下喊道。他们中的大多数人都反对；但最终，它们听从了斯蒂尔基尔特的命令，在他之前进入了黑暗的巢穴，咆哮着消失了，就像熊进入了洞穴一样。

‘As the Lakeman’s bare head was just level with the planks, the Captain and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the slide of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly called for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to the companionway.
当莱克曼号的光头刚好与木板齐平时，船长和他的小队跳过了路障，迅速拉过天窗的滑道，将他们的双手放在上面，大声要求乘务员把沉重的东西搬过来。属于升降梯的黄铜挂锁。

Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered something down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them—ten in number—leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained neutral.
然后稍微打开滑梯，船长在裂缝里低声说了些什么，关上门，然后把钥匙转向他们——总共十个人——在甲板上留下了大约二十个或更多的人，到目前为止他们一直保持中立。

‘All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward and aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking through the bulkhead below. But the hours of darkness passed in peace; the men who still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps, whose clinking and clanking at intervals through the dreary night dismally resounded through the ship.
“整个晚上，所有的军官，无论是船头还是船尾，都保持着清醒的警惕，特别是在艏楼天窗和前舱口周围；人们担心叛乱分子突破下面的舱壁后可能会出现在最后一个地方。但黑暗的时刻平静地过去了；那些仍然坚守岗位的人们在水泵前辛勤地劳作，在沉闷的夜晚，水泵的叮当声和叮叮当当的声音在船上令人沮丧地回响。

‘At sunrise the Captain went forward, and knocking on the deck, summoned the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused. Water was then lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the Captain returned to the quarter-deck. Twice every day for three days this was repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and then a scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and suddenly four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready to turn to. The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united perhaps to some fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to surrender at discretion. Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his demand to the rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to stop his babbling and betake himself where he belonged. On the fifth morning three others of the mutineers bolted up into the air from the desperate arms below that sought to restrain them. Only three were left.
“日出时，船长向前走去，敲着甲板，号召囚犯们干活；但他们大喊一声拒绝了。然后，水被浇到他们身上，随后又扔了几把饼干。当船长再次把钥匙转向他们并将其装进口袋时，他回到了尾甲板。三天内每天重复两次；但到了第四天早上，按照惯例，发出了一阵混乱的争吵，然后是扭打声。突然，四个人从艏楼冲了出来，说他们已经准备好转向了。空气中的恶臭和饥饿的饮食，也许加上对最终报复的恐惧，迫使他们谨慎投降。船长因此受到鼓舞，向其他人重申了他的要求，但斯蒂尔基尔特大声向他大声暗示，要求他停止胡言乱语，回到他所属的地方。第五天早上，另外三名叛乱分子从下方绝望的手臂中冲向空中，试图阻止他们。只剩下三个了。

‘‘Better turn to, now?’ said the Captain with a heartless jeer.
“现在最好转向吗？”船长无情地嘲笑道。

‘‘Shut us up again, will ye!’ cried Steelkilt.
“你再让我们闭嘴吧！”斯蒂尔基尔特喊道。

‘‘Oh certainly,’ the Captain, and the key clicked.
“哦，当然，”船长，然后钥匙就响了。

‘It was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection of seven of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had last hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst out of their hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their keen mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a handle at each end) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. For himself, he would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not. That was the last night he should spend in that den. But the scheme met with no opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were ready for that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but a surrender. And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come. But to this their leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself; particularly as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the other, in the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladder would but admit one man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul play of these miscreants must come out.
“先生们，正是在这一点上，他对他的七个前同事的叛逃感到愤怒，对最后一次向他欢呼的嘲笑声音感到刺痛，对他长期埋葬在一个像绝望的肠子一样黑暗的地方感到疯狂；就在那时，斯蒂尔基尔特向两位卡纳勒人提议，在下一次召唤驻军时，他们从他们的洞里冲出来，到目前为止，这两位卡纳勒人显然与他意见一致。他们手持锋利的切肉刀（长的、新月形的、两端各有一个手柄的重型工具）从船首斜桅到船尾栏杆横冲直撞；如果有任何可能的绝望，抓住这艘船。他说，对于他自己来说，无论他们是否加入他，他都会这样做。那是他应该在那个巢穴里度过的最后一晚。但该计划并未遭到其他两人的反对。他们发誓，他们已经做好了准备，或者准备做任何其他疯狂的事情，简而言之，就是除了投降之外的任何事情。更重要的是，当紧急行动的时间到来时，他们每个人都坚持成为第一个登上甲板的人。但他们的领导人对此强烈反对，并为自己保留了优先权。尤其是他的两个同志在这件事上互不让步。他们两个都不可能成为第一，因为梯子一次只能容纳一个人。先生们，在这里，这些恶棍的恶行必须被揭露出来。

‘Upon hearing the frantic project of their leader, each in his own separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem, upon the same piece of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out, in order to be the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to surrender; and thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct might merit. But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead them to the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany, mixed their before secret treacheries together; and when their leader fell into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in three sentences; and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords; and shrieked out for the Captain at midnight.
“在听到他们领袖的疯狂计划后，每个人各自的灵魂都突然点燃了，似乎是同一个背叛，即：率先突围，以便成为三人中的第一个，尽管是十人中的最后一个，但还是投降；从而确保这种行为可能得到赦免的任何微小机会。但当斯蒂尔基尔特表明他仍决心带领他们走到最后时，他们以某种方式，通过某种微妙的恶行化学反应，将他们之前秘密的背叛混合在一起；当他们的领袖打瞌睡时，用三句话向彼此敞开心扉；用绳子捆住睡觉的人，又用绳子堵住他的嘴。半夜大声呼唤船长。

‘Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, he and all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle. In a few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand and foot, the still struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his perfidious allies, who at once claimed the honour of securing a man who had been fully ripe for murder. But all these were collared, and dragged along the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side, were seized up into the mizzen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there they hung till morning. ‘Damn ye,’ cried the Captain, pacing to and fro before them, ‘the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!’
他想到谋杀即将发生，并在黑暗中嗅到血腥味，于是他和他所有的武装伙伴和标枪手冲向船首楼。几分钟后，天窗被打开，手脚被绑住的那个仍在挣扎的头目被他背信弃义的盟友推到了空中，他们立即声称有幸抓住了一个已经完全准备好谋杀的人。但所有这些都被戴上了项圈，像死牛一样沿着甲板拖着。它们并排地被抓住，像四分之三的肉一样被抓进后帆索具，一直挂在那里直到早上。 “该死的，”船长在他们面前来回踱步喊道，“秃鹰不会碰你们，你们这些恶棍！”

‘At sunrise he summoned all hands; and separating those who had rebelled from those who had taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that he had a good mind to flog them all round—thought, upon the whole, he would do so—he ought to—justice demanded it; but for the present, considering their timely surrender, he would let them go with a reprimand, which he accordingly administered in the vernacular.
“日出时，他召集了所有人；他把那些叛乱者和那些没有参加叛变的人分开，他告诉前者，他很想把他们全部鞭打——他认为，总的来说，他会这样做——他应该这样做——正义要求它;但就目前而言，考虑到他们及时投降，他将让他们离开，并用白话进行训斥。

‘‘But as for you, ye carrion rogues,’ turning to the three men in the rigging—‘for you, I mean to mince ye up for the try-pots;’ and, seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs of the two traitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their heads sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.
“至于你们，你们这些腐肉盗贼，”转向索具上的三个人——“对于你们来说，我的意思是把你们绞碎，放在试锅里；”然后，他抓起一根绳子，用尽全身的力气。可能到两个叛徒的背上，直到他们不再喊叫，而是死气沉沉地侧着头，就像两个被钉在十字架上的强盗被吸引一样。

‘‘My wrist is sprained with ye!’ he cried, at last; ‘but there is still rope enough left for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn’t give up. Take that gag from his mouth, and let us hear what he can say for himself.’
“我的手腕被你们扭伤了！”他最后喊道。 “但是还有足够的绳子留给你，我的优秀矮脚鸡，它不会放弃。”拿走他嘴里的玩笑，让我们听听他自己能说些什么。

‘For a moment the exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of his cramped jaws, and then painfully twisting round his head, said in a sort of hiss, ‘What I say is this—and mind it well—if you flog me, I murder you!’
“有那么一会儿，精疲力尽的叛乱者抽筋了，他的下巴颤抖着，然后痛苦地扭过头，用一种嘶嘶的声音说，‘我说的是这个——小心点——如果你鞭打我，我就谋杀了我。你！'

‘‘Say ye so? then see how ye frighten me’—and the Captain drew off with the rope to strike.
” “你说是吗？然后看你们怎么吓唬我’——船长拿着绳子离开去攻击。

‘‘Best not,’ hissed the Lakeman.
“最好不要，”湖人嘶嘶地说。

‘‘But I must,’—and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke.
“但我必须这么做。”——绳子再次被拉回来准备划动。

‘Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain; who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said, ‘I won’t do it—let him go—cut him down: d’ye hear?’
“斯蒂尔基尔特在这里发出嘶嘶声，除了船长以外，其他人都听不见；令所有人惊讶的是，他向后退了一步，在甲板上快速踱步了两三圈，然后突然扔下绳子，说道：“我不会这么做——让他走吧——砍倒他：是吗？”听到？'

But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a pale man, with a bandaged head, arrested them—Radney the chief mate. Ever since the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the tumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole scene. Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak; but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe.
但当大副们急忙执行命令时，一名头上缠着绷带、面色苍白的男子逮捕了他们——大副拉德尼。自从遭受打击以来，他就一直躺在床上。但那天早上，听到甲板上的喧闹声，他就爬了出来，到目前为止，他目睹了整个场面。他的嘴就是这样，几乎说不出话来。但他嘟囔着说他愿意并且能够做船长不敢尝试的事情，然后他抓起绳子，向他的敌人走去。

‘‘You are a coward!’ hissed the Lakeman.
“你是个胆小鬼！”湖人嘶嘶地说。

‘‘So I am, but take that.’ The mate was in the very act of striking, when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm. He paused: and then pausing no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt’s threat, whatever that might have been. The three men were then cut down, all hands were turned to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron pumps clanged as before.
“是的，但是接受吧。”大副正要发起攻击，突然又一声嘶嘶声阻止了他举起的手臂。他停了下来：然后不再停顿，兑现了他的诺言，尽管斯蒂尔基尔特发出了威胁，无论那是什么。然后，三个人被砍倒，所有人都转向，在喜怒无常的水手们的闷闷不乐的工作下，铁泵像以前一样叮当作响。

‘Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired below, a clamor was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors running up, besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the crew. Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their own instance they were put down in the ship’s run for salvation. Still, no sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest. On the contrary, it seemed, that mainly at Steelkilt’s instigation, they had resolved to maintain the strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the ship reached port, desert her in a body. But in order to insure the speediest end to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing—namely, not to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered. For, spite of her leak, and spite of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still maintained her mast-heads, and her captain was just as willing to lower for a fish that moment, as on the day his craft first struck the cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite as ready to change his berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the vital jaw of the whale.
“那天天黑后，当一名值班人员退到下面时，艏楼里传来一阵喧闹声；两个浑身颤抖的叛徒跑上来，围住船舱门，说不敢与船员交往。恳求、拳打脚踢都无法将他们赶回去，所以在他们自己的情况下，他们被放倒在船上寻求拯救。尽管如此，其余的人并没有再次出现叛变的迹象。相反，似乎主要是在斯蒂尔基尔特的怂恿下，他们决定保持最严格的和平，直到最后服从所有命令，并且当船到达港口时，抛弃它。但为了确保航程尽快结束，他们都同意了另一件事——那就是不为鲸鱼鸣叫，以防被发现。因为，尽管她发生了泄漏，尽管她面临着所有其他危险，但镇浩号仍然保持着她的桅杆头，而她的船长在那一刻也愿意放下手中的鱼，就像他的船第一次撞击大海的那天一样。巡航场地；大副拉德尼也准备好换船了，用他缠着绷带的嘴试图堵死鲸鱼的下巴。

‘But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct, he kept his own counsel (at least till all was over) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles of his heart. He was in Radney the chief mate’s watch; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom, after the scene at the rigging, he insisted, against the express counsel of the captain, upon resuming the head of his watch at night. Upon this, and one or two other circumstances, Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.
“但是，尽管湖人诱使海员们采取这种消极的行为，但他保留了自己的忠告（至少在一切结束之前），关于他自己对刺伤他心室的人进行适当和私人的报复。他的心。他在大副拉德尼的值班下。仿佛这个痴情的人想要跑出一半以上的路程来迎接他的厄运，在索具现场发生之后，他不顾船长的明确劝告，坚持在晚上继续值班。基于此以及其他一两个情况，斯蒂尔基尔特系统地制定了他的复仇计划。

‘During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of the boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship’s side. In this attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed. There was a considerable vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between this was the sea. Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm would come round at two o’clock, in the morning of the third day from that in which he had been betrayed. At his leisure, he employed the interval in braiding something very carefully in his watches below.
晚上，拉德尼以一种不像水手的方式坐在尾甲板的舷墙上，将手臂靠在悬挂在那里的船舷缘上，略高于船舷。众所周知，在这种态度下，他有时会打瞌睡。船与船之间有相当大的空位，而空位的下方就是大海。斯蒂尔基尔特计算了他的时间，发现他的下一次掌舵将在两点钟到来，也就是他被背叛后的第三天早上。闲暇时，他会利用这段时间在下面的手表上小心翼翼地编一些东西。

‘‘What are you making there?’ said a shipmate.
“你在那里做什么？”一位船友说道。

‘‘What do you think? what does it look like?’
''你怎么认为？它是什么样子的？'

‘‘Like a lanyard for your bag; but it’s an odd one, seems to me.’
“就像你包里的挂绳；但在我看来，这很奇怪。”

‘Yes, rather oddish,’ said the Lakeman, holding it at arm’s length before him; ‘but I think it will answer. Shipmate, I haven’t enough twine,—have you any?’
“是的，有点奇怪。”湖人说，把它举在面前，保持一臂距离。 '但我认为它会回答。船友，我没有足够的麻线，——你有吗？

‘But there was none in the forecastle.
“但是艏楼里没有。”

‘‘Then I must get some from old Rad;’ and he rose to go aft.
“那我必须从老拉德那里拿一些；”他起身向船尾走去。

‘‘You don’t mean to go a begging to HIM!’ said a sailor.
“你不会是想向他乞讨吧！”一名水手说道。

‘‘Why not? Do you think he won’t do me a turn, when it’s to help himself in the end, shipmate?’ and going to the mate, he looked at him quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was given him—neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an iron ball, closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the Lakeman’s monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at the silent helm—nigh to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready dug to the seaman’s hand—that fatal hour was then to come; and in the fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.
''为什么不？你认为他不会轮到我吗，当最后是为了帮助自己时，船友？它被给了他——麻线和挂绳都再也没有出现过；但第二天晚上，当莱克曼将外套塞进吊床当枕头时，一个铁球，紧密网状，部分从他的猴子夹克的口袋里滚了出来。二十四小时后，他在沉默掌舵上的伎俩——靠近那个随时准备在坟墓上打瞌睡的人——落到了海员的手上——那个致命的时刻即将到来；在斯蒂尔基尔特注定的灵魂中，大副已经像尸体一样僵硬，前额被压扁。

‘But, gentlemen, a fool saved the would-be murderer from the bloody deed he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the avenger. For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step in to take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would have done.
“但是，先生们，一个傻瓜将这个潜在的杀人犯从他所计划的血腥行为中拯救出来。然而他已经彻底报仇了，而且他并不是复仇者。因为，由于一种神秘的宿命，上天似乎介入了，将他本来会做的该死的事情从他手中夺走了。

‘It was just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the second day, when they were washing down the decks, that a stupid Teneriffe man, drawing water in the main-chains, all at once shouted out, ‘There she rolls! there she rolls!’ Jesu, what a whale! It was Moby Dick.
“就在第二天早上黎明和日出之间，当他们冲洗甲板时，一个愚蠢的特内里费人在主链上打水，突然大声喊道：‘在那里，她滚了！她在那里滚！’天啊，多棒的鲸鱼啊！这是莫比迪克。

‘‘Moby Dick!’ cried Don Sebastian; ‘St. Dominic! Sir sailor, but do whales have christenings? Whom call you Moby Dick?’
“莫比迪克！”唐·塞巴斯蒂安喊道。 '英石。多米尼克！水手先生，鲸鱼有洗礼吗？谁叫你莫比迪克？

‘‘A very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;—but that would be too long a story.’
“一个非常白色、著名、最致命的不朽怪物，唐；——但是这个故事太长了。”

‘‘How? how?’ cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.
''如何？怎么了？”所有年轻的西班牙人都挤在一起喊道。

‘‘Nay, Dons, Dons—nay, nay! I cannot rehearse that now. Let me get more into the air, Sirs.’
“不，唐斯，唐斯——不，不！我现在无法排练。先生们，让我多呼吸一下。”

‘‘The chicha! the chicha!’ cried Don Pedro; ‘our vigorous friend looks faint;—fill up his empty glass!’
”奇恰！ “奇恰！”唐·佩德罗喊道。 “我们精力充沛的朋友看起来很虚弱；——把他的空杯子倒满！”

‘No need, gentlemen; one moment, and I proceed.—Now, gentlemen, so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within fifty yards of the ship—forgetful of the compact among the crew—in the excitement of the moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted his voice for the monster, though for some little time past it had been plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads. All was now a phrensy. ‘The White Whale—the White Whale!’ was the cry from captain, mates, and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumours, were all anxious to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed askance, and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass, that lit up by a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like a living opal in the blue morning sea. Gentlemen, a strange fatality pervades the whole career of these events, as if verily mapped out before the world itself was charted. The mutineer was the bowsman of the mate, and when fast to a fish, it was his duty to sit next him, while Radney stood up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken the line, at the word of command. Moreover, when the four boats were lowered, the mate’s got the start; and none howled more fiercely with delight than did Steelkilt, as he strained at his oar. After a stiff pull, their harpooneer got fast, and, spear in hand, Radney sprang to the bow. He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat. And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale’s topmost back. Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a blinding foam that blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat struck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing mate. That instant, as he fell on the whale’s slippery back, the boat righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over into the sea, on the other flank of the whale. He struck out through the spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. But the whale rushed round in a sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing high up with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.
“没必要，先生们；一会儿，我继续。——现在，先生们，突然发现了距离船五十码以内的雪鲸——忘记了船员们之间的契约——在那一刻的兴奋中，特内里费人本能地、不由自主地提高了声音对于这个怪物来说，虽然在过去的一段时间里，人们从三个阴​​沉的桅杆头上清楚地看到了它。现在一切都变成了精神错乱。 “白鲸——白鲸！”是船长、大副和标枪手们的呼喊声，他们没有被可怕的谣言所吓倒，都渴望捕获如此著名和珍贵的鱼；顽强的船员们斜视着，咒骂着，那巨大的乳白色物质在水平闪烁的太阳的照耀下，闪烁着令人震惊的美丽，就像清晨蓝色大海中的活蛋白石一样移动和闪闪发光。先生们，一种奇怪的宿命贯穿了这些事件的整个过程，仿佛在世界本身被绘制之前就已经被绘制出来了。叛变者是大副的弓箭手，当他紧紧抓住一条鱼时，他的职责是坐在他旁边，而拉德尼则站起来，将长矛插在船头，根据命令拉紧或放松鱼线。而且，当四艘船放下时，大副就开始了；当斯蒂尔基尔特使劲划桨时，没有人比他更高兴地嚎叫了。经过猛烈的拉力之后，他们的标枪手速度加快了，拉德尼手里拿着长矛，跳到了船头。在船上，他似乎总是一个愤怒的人。现在，他缠着绷带的呼喊是，把他搁在鲸鱼最上面的背上。他的弓箭手毫不犹豫地将他拉了上来，穿过将两种白色混合在一起的令人眼花缭乱的泡沫；直到突然，小船撞到了一个凹陷的岩架上，翻了个底朝天，站着的大副就被摔了出来。 那一刻，当他落在鲸鱼光滑的背上时，船向右转，被海浪冲到一边，而拉德尼则被扔进海里，在鲸鱼的另一侧。他从浪花中冲了出来，有那么一瞬间，人们透过面纱隐约看到他，疯狂地试图将自己从莫比·迪克的眼睛中移开。但鲸鱼突然在漩涡中猛冲过来。把游泳者夹在嘴里；和他一起高高地站起来，又一头扎下去，然后下去了。

‘Meantime, at the first tap of the boat’s bottom, the Lakeman had slackened the line, so as to drop astern from the whirlpool; calmly looking on, he thought his own thoughts. But a sudden, terrific, downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. He cut it; and the whale was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose again, with some tatters of Radney’s red woollen shirt, caught in the teeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but the whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.
与此同时，当船底第一次被敲击时，湖人号就松开了绳子，以便从漩涡中掉到船尾；静静地看着，心里想着自己的想法。但船突然向下猛烈地摇动，很快他的刀就划到了绳子上。他把它剪掉了；鲸鱼就自由了。但是，在远处，莫比·迪克再次站了起来，拉德尼的红色羊毛衬衫的一些破烂被卡在了摧毁他的牙齿中。四艘船再次追赶。但鲸鱼却避开了他们，最后完全消失了。

‘In good time, the Town-Ho reached her port—a savage, solitary place—where no civilized creature resided. There, headed by the Lakeman, all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted among the palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large double war-canoe of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor.
“镇浩号及时到达了她的港口——一个野蛮、偏僻的地方——那里没有文明生物居住。在那里，以莱克曼为首，除了五六名船长外，其他人都故意逃到了棕榈树丛中。最终，事实证明，他们抓住了野蛮人的一艘大型双战独木舟，并启航前往其他港口。

‘The ship’s company being reduced to but a handful, the captain called upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving down the ship to stop the leak. But to such unresting vigilance over their dangerous allies was this small band of whites necessitated, both by night and by day, and so extreme was the hard work they underwent, that upon the vessel being ready again for sea, they were in such a weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with them in so heavy a vessel. After taking counsel with his officers, he anchored the ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two cannon from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with him, and setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight before the wind for Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a reinforcement to his crew.
“船上的人员只剩下寥寥几人，船长呼吁岛民协助他完成将船放下来阻止泄漏的繁重工作。但是，为了对他们危险的盟友保持如此不安的警惕，这小股白人需要日夜不停地工作，而且他们所经历的艰苦工作是如此极端，以至于当船只再次准备出海时，他们的力量如此虚弱。条件是船长不敢把他们拖在这么重的船上。在与他的军官商议后，他将船停泊在离海岸尽可能远的地方。他的两门大炮装弹并从船头射出。将他的步枪堆放在船尾；并警告岛民不要靠近这艘船，以免陷入危险，他带了一名男子，并扬起了他最好的捕鲸船的风帆，顺风直驶到五百英里外的塔希提岛，为他的船员增援。

‘On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed to have touched at a low isle of corals. He steered away from it; but the savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt hailed him to heave to, or he would run him under water. The captain presented a pistol. With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so much as clicked in the lock, he would bury him in bubbles and foam.
“航行第四天，人们看到一艘大独木舟，它似乎触碰到了一座低矮的珊瑚岛。他避开了它；但野蛮的技艺向他袭来；很快，斯蒂尔基尔特的声音就向他招呼，让他停下来，否则他就会把他推到水下。队长递出一把手枪。湖人用一只脚踩在有轭的战独木舟的船头上，嘲笑他。向他保证，只要手枪卡在锁上，他就会把他埋在泡沫和泡沫中。

‘‘What do you want of me?’ cried the captain.
“你想要我做什么？”船长喊道。

‘‘Where are you bound? and for what are you bound?’ demanded Steelkilt; ‘no lies.’
” “你要去哪里？ “那么你有什么义务呢？”斯蒂尔基尔特问道。 '没有谎言。'

‘‘I am bound to Tahiti for more men.’
“我一定会去塔希提岛寻找更多的男人。”

‘‘Very good. Let me board you a moment—I come in peace.’ With that he leaped from the canoe, swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood face to face with the captain.
''非常好。让我登上你一会儿吧——我是为了和平而来。”说着，他从独木舟上跳了下来，游到了船上。爬上舷缘，与船长面对面站着。

‘‘Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head. Now, repeat after me. As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder island, and remain there six days. If I do not, may lightning strike me!’
“交叉双臂，先生；把头向后仰。现在，跟着我重复一遍。 Steelkilt一离开我，我就发誓要把这艘船搁浅在那边的岛上，并在那里待上六天。如果我不这样做，愿闪电击中我！

‘‘A pretty scholar,’ laughed the Lakeman. ‘Adios, Senor!’ and leaping into the sea, he swam back to his comrades.
“一位漂亮的学者，”湖人笑道。 “再见，先生！”然后他跳入海中，游回战友们身边。

‘Watching the boat till it was fairly beached, and drawn up to the roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail again, and in due time arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination. There, luck befriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and were providentially in want of precisely that number of men which the sailor headed. They embarked; and so for ever got the start of their former captain, had he been at all minded to work them legal retribution.
斯蒂尔基尔特看着船，直到它完全搁浅，并停在可可树的根部，然后再次起航，并在适当的时候到达了塔希提岛，他自己的目的地。在那里，幸运之神眷顾了他。有两艘船正要驶往法国，天意如此，他们所需要的人数正是水手所率领的人数。他们登船了；因此，如果他们的前任队长一心想对他们进行法律报复，他就永远开始了。

‘Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat arrived, and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea. Chartering a small native schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all right there, again resumed his cruisings.
法国船只启航十天后，捕鲸船抵达，船长被迫招募了一些比较文明的塔希提人，他们已经习惯了大海。他租了一艘当地的小型帆船，带着他们回到了他的船上。发现一切正常后，他又继续航行。

‘Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know; but upon the island of Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that destroyed him.
“先生们，没人知道斯蒂尔基尔特现在在哪里；但在楠塔基特岛上，拉德尼的遗孀仍然向大海求助，大海拒绝放弃死去的人。仍在梦中看到那头摧毁了他的可怕的白鲸。

‘‘Are you through?’ said Don Sebastian, quietly.
“你讲完了吗？”唐·塞巴斯蒂安轻声说道。

‘‘I am, Don.’
“我是，唐。”

‘‘Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions, this your story is in substance really true? It is so passing wonderful! Did you get it from an unquestionable source? Bear with me if I seem to press.’
“那么我恳求你，告诉我，据你自己的判断，你的故事实质上是否属实？真是太美妙了！你是从毫无疑问的来源得到的吗？如果我看起来很紧迫，请耐心等待。

‘‘Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don Sebastian’s suit,’ cried the company, with exceeding interest.
“也请耐心等待我们所有人，水手先生；因为我们都加入了唐·塞巴斯蒂安的行列，”大家兴致勃勃地喊道。

‘‘Is there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?’
“先生们，金色旅馆里有《神圣福音传道者》的副本吗？”

‘‘Nay,’ said Don Sebastian; ‘but I know a worthy priest near by, who will quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised? this may grow too serious.’
“不，”唐·塞巴斯蒂安说。 “但我认识附近一位可敬的牧师，他会很快为我弄到一个。”我去争取；但你有好的建议吗？这可能会变得太严重了。

‘‘Will you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?’
“唐，你能把神父也带来吗？”

‘‘Though there are no Auto-da-Fe’s in Lima now,’ said one of the company to another; ‘I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy. Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight. I see no need of this.’
“虽然现在利马已经没有 Auto-da-Fe 了，”一位公司的成员对另一位公司的成员说道； “我担心我们的水手朋友会面临成为大主教的风险。让我们从月光中撤出更多。我认为没有必要这样做。

‘‘Excuse me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also beg that you will be particular in procuring the largest sized Evangelists you can.’
“请原谅我追赶你，唐·塞巴斯蒂安；但我也请您特别注意尽可能招募规模最大的传道者。

‘This is the priest, he brings you the Evangelists,’ said Don Sebastian, gravely, returning with a tall and solemn figure.
“这是神父，他给你们带来了福音传道者。”唐·塞巴斯蒂安严肃地说，带着高大而庄严的身影回来了。

‘‘Let me remove my hat. Now, venerable priest, further into the light, and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it.
“让我摘掉帽子。现在，可敬的神父，请进一步进入光明，将圣书举在我面前，让我触摸它。

‘‘So help me Heaven, and on my honour the story I have told ye, gentlemen, is in substance and its great items, true. I know it to be true; it happened on this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have seen and talked with Steelkilt since the death of Radney.’’
“所以请上帝帮助我，以我的名誉担保，先生们，我所讲述的故事的实质及其重要内容都是真实的。我知道这是真的；它发生在这个球上；我踏上船；我认识船员们；自从拉德尼去世后，我就见过斯蒂尔基尔特并与他交谈过。”

Chapter 55
第55章

Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales.
鲸鱼的怪异图片。

I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas, something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale-ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there. It may be worth while, therefore, previously to advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman. It is time to set the world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all wrong.
不久之后，我将向你描绘出鲸鱼的真实形态，就像鲸鱼以自己的绝对身体停泊在捕鲸船旁边时，鲸鱼的真实形态一样。他可能会被公平地踩在那里。因此，之前可能值得关注一下他那些令人好奇的想象肖像，这些肖像甚至直到今天仍然自信地挑战着土地所有者的信仰。现在是时候通过证明鲸鱼的这些照片都是错误的来纠正这个问题了。

It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures. For ever since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble panellings of temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields, medallions, cups, and coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of chain-armor like Saladin’s, and a helmeted head like St. George’s; ever since then has something of the same sort of license prevailed, not only in most popular pictures of the whale, but in many scientific presentations of him.
所有这些绘画错觉的最初根源可能会在最古老的印度、埃及和希腊雕塑中找到。自从那些富有创造力但肆无忌惮的时代以来，在寺庙的大理石镶板、雕像的基座、盾牌、奖章、杯子和硬币上，海豚都被画成像萨拉丁那样的链甲鳞片，以及像萨拉丁那样戴着头盔的头。圣乔治；从那时起，类似的许可就盛行起来，不仅在最受欢迎的鲸鱼照片中，而且在许多有关鲸鱼的科学演示中。

Now, by all odds, the most ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to be the whale’s, is to be found in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta, in India. The Brahmins maintain that in the almost endless sculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all the trades and pursuits, every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages before any of them actually came into being. No wonder then, that in some sort our noble profession of whaling should have been there shadowed forth. The Hindoo whale referred to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the incarnation of Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the Matse Avatar. But though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so as only to give the tail of the latter, yet that small section of him is all wrong. It looks more like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the broad palms of the true whale’s majestic flukes.
现在，无论如何，现存最古老的肖像被认为是鲸鱼的肖像，是在印度著名的象岛洞穴宝塔中发现的。婆罗门坚持认为，在那座远古宝塔的几乎无穷无尽的雕塑中，所有的行业和追求，以及人类每一种可以想象的爱好，在它们真正出现之前的年代就已经被预示了。难怪我们崇高的捕鲸职业在某种程度上应该受到关注。所指的印度鲸鱼出现在墙上的一个单独部分，描绘了毗湿奴以利维坦形式的化身，学术上称为马采阿凡达。尽管这个雕塑是半人半鲸，只是为了给出后者的尾巴，但他的那一小部分却是错误的。它看起来更像是水蟒逐渐变细的尾巴，而不是真正鲸鱼雄伟的尾鳍的宽阔手掌。

But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great Christian painter’s portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the antediluvian Hindoo. It is Guido’s picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda from the sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get the model of such a strange creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in his own ‘Perseus Descending,’ make out one whit better. The huge corpulence of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing one inch of water. It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its distended tusked mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be taken for the Traitors’ Gate leading from the Thames by water into the Tower. Then, there are the Prodromus whales of old Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah’s whale, as depicted in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of old primers. What shall be said of these? As for the book-binder’s whale winding like a vine-stalk round the stock of a descending anchor—as stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages of many books both old and new—that is a very picturesque but purely fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on antique vases. Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call this book-binder’s fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended when the device was first introduced. It was introduced by an old Italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival of Learning; and in those days, and even down to a comparatively late period, dolphins were popularly supposed to be a species of the Leviathan.
但是，请前往旧画廊，看看一位伟大的基督教画家为这条鱼绘制的肖像；因为他并不比古老的印度人更成功。这是圭多绘制的珀尔修斯从海怪或鲸鱼手中拯救安德洛墨达的照片。吉多从哪里得到这种奇怪生物的模型？霍加斯在他自己的《珀尔修斯下降》中描绘的同一场景也没有表现得更好。霍加斯怪物的巨大肥胖在水面上起伏，几乎吸不到一英寸的水。它的背上有一种像豪达一样的东西，它张开的长着獠牙的嘴，巨浪翻滚着，可能被认为是叛徒之门，从泰晤士河通过水流进入伦敦塔。然后，还有古老的苏格兰西博尔德的普罗德罗莫斯鲸和约拿鲸，如旧圣经的版画和旧底漆的剪裁中所描绘的那样。这些该怎么说呢？至于装订者的鲸鱼，像藤蔓一样缠绕在下降的锚杆上——就像许多新旧书籍的背面和扉页上的印记和镀金一样——这是一种非常美丽但纯粹是神话般的生物，我认为是模仿古董花瓶上的类似人物。尽管人们普遍将其称为海豚，但我还是将这位装订者的鱼称为鲸鱼。因为该设备首次推出时就是如此。它是由一位古老的意大利出版商在 15 世纪文艺复兴时期引入的。在当时，甚至到相对较晚的时期，海豚都被普遍认为是利维坦的一种。

In the vignettes and other embellishments of some ancient books you will at times meet with very curious touches at the whale, where all manner of spouts, jets d’eau, hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden, come bubbling up from his unexhausted brain. In the title-page of the original edition of the ‘Advancement of Learning’ you will find some curious whales.
在一些古书的小插图和其他装饰中，你有时会遇到鲸鱼非常奇怪的接触，各种各样的喷口、喷水、温泉和冷水、萨拉托加和巴登巴登，从他的鲸鱼的嘴里冒出来。未耗尽的大脑。在《学习的进步》原版的扉页中，你会发现一些好奇的鲸鱼。

But quitting all these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those pictures of leviathan purporting to be sober, scientific delineations, by those who know. In old Harris’s collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from a Dutch book of voyages, A.D. 1671, entitled ‘A Whaling Voyage to Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland, master.’ In one of those plates the whales, like great rafts of logs, are represented lying among ice-isles, with white bears running over their living backs. In another plate, the prodigious blunder is made of representing the whale with perpendicular flukes.
但放弃所有这些不专业的尝试，让我们看一下那些由知情者绘制的利维坦照片，这些照片声称是清醒的、科学的描述。在老哈里斯的航海收藏中，有一些鲸鱼的图画是从荷兰航海书中摘录的，出版于公元 1671 年，题为“乘鲸鱼乔纳斯号船去斯皮茨卑尔根岛的捕鲸航程，船长是弗里斯兰的彼得·彼得森”。盘子上的鲸鱼就像巨大的木筏，被描绘成躺在冰岛之中，白熊在它们活生生的背上奔跑。在另一幅画中，这个巨大的错误是由用垂直的尾鳍代表鲸鱼造成的。

Then again, there is an imposing quarto, written by one Captain Colnett, a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled ‘A Voyage round Cape Horn into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending the Spermaceti Whale Fisheries.’ In this book is an outline purporting to be a ‘Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed on the coast of Mexico, August, 1793, and hoisted on deck.’ I doubt not the captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines. To mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which applied, according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm whale, would make the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet long. Ah, my gallant captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out of that eye!
另外，还有一本气势磅礴的四开本，作者是英国海军的一名上尉 Colnett，题为“绕合恩角进入南海的航行，目的是扩大白鲸渔业”。一张轮廓，据称是“一头抹香鲸或抹香鲸的图片，按比例绘制，1793 年 8 月在墨西哥海岸被杀死，并悬挂在甲板上。”我怀疑船长是否为了利益而拍摄了这张真实的照片他的海军陆战队员。只提一件事，让我说它有一只眼睛，根据随附的比例，适用于成年抹香鲸，将使该鲸鱼的眼睛成为大约五英尺长的弓窗。啊，我英勇的船长，你为什么不给我们看那只眼睛里的约拿！

Nor are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for the benefit of the young and tender, free from the same heinousness of mistake. Look at that popular work ‘Goldsmith’s Animated Nature.’ In the abridged London edition of 1807, there are plates of an alleged ‘whale’ and a ‘narwhale.’ I do not wish to seem inelegant, but this unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow; and, as for the narwhale, one glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in this nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any intelligent public of schoolboys.
即使是最认真地为年轻人和稚嫩的人编纂的博物学著作，也不会避免同样令人发指的错误。看看那本广受欢迎的作品《戈德史密斯的动画自然》。在 1807 年伦敦版的删节版中，有一幅所谓的“鲸鱼”和“独角鲸”的图画。我不想显得不雅，但这条难看的鲸鱼看起来很像一头鲸鱼。母猪截肢；至于独角鲸，只要看一眼就足以令人惊讶，在这个十九世纪，这样的鹰头马身有翼兽可以被任何聪明的学生群体视为正品。

Then, again, in 1825, Bernard Germain, Count de Lacepede, a great naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan. All these are not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long experienced man as touching that species, declares not to have its counterpart in nature.
1825年，伟大的博物学家拉塞佩德伯爵伯纳德·热尔曼出版了一本科学系统的鲸鱼书籍，其中有几张不同种类的利维坦的图片。所有这些不仅是不正确的，而且关于须鲸或格陵兰鲸（即露脊鲸）的图片，甚至斯科斯比，一个长期接触该物种的人，也宣称在自然界中没有它的对应物。

But the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was reserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous Baron. In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he gives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing that picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary retreat from Nantucket. In a word, Frederick Cuvier’s Sperm Whale is not a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit of a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that picture, who can tell? Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessor in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; that is, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with the pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.
但是，负责所有这些错误的事情的放置是由科学界的弗雷德里克·居维叶（Frederick Cuvier）保留的，他是著名的男爵的兄弟。 1836 年，他出版了《鲸鱼自然史》，其中给出了他所谓的抹香鲸的图片。在向任何楠塔基特人展示这张照片之前，您最好准备好从楠塔基特岛进行的总结性撤退。总而言之，弗雷德里克·居维叶的抹香鲸不是抹香鲸，而是南瓜。当然，他从未享受过捕鲸航行的好处（这样的人很少有），但他从哪里得出这张照片，谁知道呢？也许他得到这一点就像他在同一领域的科学前辈德斯马雷斯特（Desmarest）经历了一次真正的堕胎一样；也就是说，来自中国绘画。许多奇怪的杯子和碟子告诉我们，这些中国人是一群多么活泼的拿着铅笔的小伙子。

As for the sign-painters’ whales seen in the streets hanging over the shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them? They are generally Richard III. whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting on three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners: their deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.
至于街上看到的标牌画家的鲸鱼悬挂在石油商的商店上方，该怎么说呢？他们一般是理查三世。鲸鱼，有单峰骆驼的驼峰，非常野蛮；早餐吃的是三四个水手馅饼，那是满载水手的捕鲸船：他们的畸形在血和蓝色油漆的海洋中挣扎。

But these manifold mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very surprising after all. Consider! Most of the scientific drawings have been taken from the stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a drawing of a wrecked ship, with broken back, would correctly represent the noble animal itself in all its undashed pride of hull and spars. Though elephants have stood for their full-lengths, the living Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait. The living whale, in his full majesty and significance, is only to be seen at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out of sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that element it is a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily into the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations. And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of contour between a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan; yet, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship’s deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him, that his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.
但描绘鲸鱼时出现的这些多重错误并不令人意外。考虑！大多数科学图画取自搁浅的鱼；这些都是正确的，就像一幅失事的船的图画，船背被折断，正确地代表了高贵的动物本身，船体和桅杆的所有不折不扣的骄傲。尽管大象已经站立起来，但活着的利维坦却从未在肖像中完全浮起。活鲸的威严和意义只有在深不可测的海域才能看到。他的大部分身体都漂​​浮在水面上，看不见，就像一艘下水的战列舰。由于这种因素，凡人永远不可能将他的身体提升到空中，以保持他所有强大的膨胀和波动。而且，更不用说年轻的吸鲸和成年的柏拉图利维坦之间的轮廓很可能存在差异；然而，即使是其中一只幼小的吸鲸被吊到船的甲板上，它的形状也如此古怪，像鳗鱼一样，灵活多变，以至于魔鬼本人都无法捕捉到它的精确表情。

But it may be fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded whale, accurate hints may be derived touching his true form. Not at all. For it is one of the more curious things about this Leviathan, that his skeleton gives very little idea of his general shape. Though Jeremy Bentham’s skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in the library of one of his executors, correctly conveys the idea of a burly-browed utilitarian old gentleman, with all Jeremy’s other leading personal characteristics; yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from any leviathan’s articulated bones. In fact, as the great Hunter says, the mere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes it. This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some part of this book will be incidentally shown. It is also very curiously displayed in the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to the bones of the human hand, minus only the thumb. This fin has four regular bone-fingers, the index, middle, ring, and little finger. But all these are permanently lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human fingers in an artificial covering. ‘However recklessly the whale may sometimes serve us,’ said humorous Stubb one day, ‘he can never be truly said to handle us without mittens.’
但人们可能会认为，从搁浅鲸鱼的裸露骨骼中，可以得出有关其真实形态的准确暗示。一点也不。因为这个利维坦最奇怪的事情之一是，他的骨骼几乎无法透露他的总体形状。尽管杰里米·边沁的骷髅挂在他的一位遗嘱执行人的图书馆里，作为烛台，正确地传达了一位眉毛粗壮、功利主义的老绅士的想法，并具有杰里米的所有其他主要个人特征；然而，从任何利维坦的铰接骨骼中都无法推断出任何此类信息。事实上，正如这位伟大的猎人所说，鲸鱼的骨骼与全身覆盖的动物之间的关系，就像昆虫与将其包裹的蛹的关系一样。这种特性在头脑中得到了惊人的体现，正如本书的某些部分将顺便展示的那样。它的侧鳍也表现得非常奇怪，侧鳍的骨头几乎完全符合人手的骨头，除了拇指。该鳍有四个规则的骨指，即食指、中指、无名指和小指。但所有这些都永久地固定在它们的肉质覆盖物中，就像人类的手指固定在人造覆盖物中一样。 “无论鲸鱼有时如何鲁莽地为我们服务，”幽默的斯塔布有一天说道，“但永远不能说他不戴手套就能对付我们。”

For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must needs conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world which must remain unpainted to the last. True, one portrait may hit the mark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very considerable degree of exactness. So there is no earthly way of finding out precisely what the whale really looks like. And the only mode in which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is by going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of being eternally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, it seems to me you had best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this Leviathan.
出于所有这些原因，无论你如何看待它，你都必须得出这样的结论：伟大的利维坦是世界上必须始终保持未上漆的一种生物。诚然，一幅肖像画可能比另一幅肖像画更接近目标，但没有人能达到相当精确的程度。因此，地球上没有任何方法可以准确地找出鲸鱼的真实面貌。要想对他的生活轮廓有一个大致的了解，唯一的方式就是亲自去捕鲸。但这样做的话，你就会冒着被他永远火炉和沉没的不小的风险。因此，在我看来，你最好不要太挑剔自己对这只利维坦的好奇心。

Chapter 56
第56章

Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True Pictures of Whaling Scenes.
鲸鱼的错误较少的图片和捕鲸场景的真实图片。

In connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, I am strongly tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and modern, especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc. But I pass that matter by.
关于鲸鱼的怪异图片，我在这里强烈地想进入那些更怪异的故事，这些故事可以在某些古代和现代的书籍中找到，特别是普林尼、普尔查斯、哈克卢伊特、哈里斯、居维叶、等等，但我忽略了这件事。

I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale; Colnett’s, Huggins’s, Frederick Cuvier’s, and Beale’s. In the previous chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to. Huggins’s is far better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale’s is the best. All Beale’s drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second chapter. His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no doubt calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is admirably correct and life-like in its general effect. Some of the Sperm Whale drawings in J. Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they are wretchedly engraved. That is not his fault though.
据我所知，关于伟大抹香鲸的概述仅有四份已出版；科尔内特、哈金斯、弗雷德里克·居维叶和比尔。在前面的章节中已经提到了科尔内特和居维叶。哈金斯的远比他们的好。但是，很有可能，比尔的是最好的。比尔对这条鲸鱼的所有画作都很好，除了三头鲸鱼不同姿态的中间人物，这是他第二章的结尾。他的卷首插画《攻击抹香鲸的船只》无疑是为了激起一些客厅里的人的民间怀疑，但其总体效果却非常正确且栩栩如生。 J. Ross Browne 中的一些抹香鲸图画的轮廓非常正确。但它们被刻得很可怜。但这不是他的错。

Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression. He has but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad deficiency, because it is by such pictures only, when at all well done, that you can derive anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen by his living hunters.
关于露脊鲸，最好的轮廓图片在斯科斯比 (Scoresby)；但它们的比例太小，无法传达理想的印象。他只有一张捕鲸场景的照片，这是一个可悲的缺陷，因为只有通过这些照片，如果做得好的话，你就可以得出任何像他活着的猎人所看到的活鲸鱼的真实想法。

But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though in some details not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling scenes to be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed, and taken from paintings by one Garnery. Respectively, they represent attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale. In the first engraving a noble Sperm Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath the boat from the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air upon his back the terrific wreck of the stoven planks. The prow of the boat is partially unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon the monster’s spine; and standing in that prow, for that one single incomputable flash of time, you behold an oarsman, half shrouded by the incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in the act of leaping, as if from a precipice. The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and true. The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened sea; the wooden poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads of the swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down upon the scene. Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details of this whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not draw so good a one.
但是，总而言之，迄今为止最好的，尽管在某些细节上不是最正确的，对鲸鱼和捕鲸场景的展示是任何地方都可以找到的，是两幅巨大的法国版画，制作精良，取自一位加纳利的画作。它们分别代表对抹香鲸和露脊鲸的攻击。在第一幅版画中，一头高贵的抹香鲸被描绘得充满了威严，它刚刚从海洋深处的船下升起，背上高高地背着干枯木板的可怕残骸。船头部分完好无损，正好靠在怪物的脊椎上保持平衡。站在船头，在那一瞬间，你会看到一位桨手，半边被鲸鱼喷出的滚烫的喷水所笼罩，正在跳跃，仿佛从悬崖上跳下来。整个事情的行动非常好而且真实。半空的线盆漂浮在泛白的海面上；溢出的鱼叉的木杆在其中倾斜地摆动；游泳队员们的头分散在鲸鱼周围，表情形成对比的恐惧。在黑暗的暴风雨中，船正在向现场驶来。这条鲸鱼的解剖细节可能会发现严重的错误，但不要介意。因为我一生都画不出这么好的作品。

In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing alongside the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his black weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian cliffs. His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave supper cooking in the great bowels below. Sea fowls are pecking at the small crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the Right Whale sometimes carries on his pestilent back. And all the while the thick-lipped leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of tumultuous white curds in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer. Thus, the foreground is all raging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is the glassy level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of the powerless ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered fortress, with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his spout-hole.
在第二幅版画中，船正沿着一头正在奔跑的大型露脊鲸布满藤壶的侧翼行驶，它在海中翻滚着黑色杂草般的身体，就像巴塔哥尼亚悬崖上长满青苔的岩石滑坡一样。他的喷流直立、饱满、黑如烟灰；因此，从烟囱里冒出的浓烟来看，你会认为下面的大肠子里一定正在煮着一顿丰盛的晚餐。海鸟啄食小螃蟹、贝类以及其他海糖和通心粉，露脊鲸有时会把这些东西背在它那致命的背上。与此同时，厚唇利维坦一直冲过深海，在他的身后留下了无数汹涌的白色凝乳，导致那艘小船在海浪中摇晃，就像一艘靠近远洋轮船明轮的小船一样。于是，前景一片喧嚣；但在其背后，令人惊叹的艺术对比是平静的海面如玻璃般平静，无力的船下垂着未浆过的帆，一头死去的鲸鱼的惰性物质，一座被征服的堡垒，鲸鱼上懒洋洋地悬挂着捕获的旗帜——杆子插入他的喷嘴孔。

Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he was either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the lads for painting action. Go and gaze upon all the paintings of Europe, and where will you find such a gallery of living and breathing commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where the beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the consecutive great battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the Northern Lights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a charge of crowned centaurs? Not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery, are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.
我不知道这位画家加纳里是谁，或者曾经是谁。但在我看来，他要么对他的学科非常熟悉，要么得到了一些经验丰富的捕鲸人的出色指导。法国人是绘画行动的小伙子。去看看欧洲所有的绘画，你会在哪里找到像凡尔赛凯旋大厅那样充满生机和呼吸的画布画廊；在那里，旁观者在法国连续不断的伟大战役中奋力拼搏；每把剑都仿佛是北极光的闪光，历代的武装国王和皇帝像戴着王冠的半人马冲锋一样冲锋而过？加纳利的这些海战作品并非完全不值得在画廊中占据一席之地。

The natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness of things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings they have of their whaling scenes. With not one tenth of England’s experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of that of the Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the only finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the whale hunt. For the most part, the English and American whale draughtsmen seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline of things, such as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as picturesqueness of effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching the profile of a pyramid. Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right whaleman, after giving us a stiff full length of the Greenland whale, and three or four delicate miniatures of narwhales and porpoises, treats us to a series of classical engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives, and grapnels; and with the microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck submits to the inspection of a shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of magnified Arctic snow crystals. I mean no disparagement to the excellent voyager (I honour him for a veteran), but in so important a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have procured for every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice of the Peace.
法国人捕捉事物如画般的自然天赋似乎在他们的捕鲸场景的绘画和版画中得到了特别的体现。他们的渔业经验不及英国的十分之一，也不及美国人的千分之一，但他们却为两国提供了唯一能够传达捕鲸真正精神的成品草图。在大多数情况下，英国和美国的鲸鱼绘图员似乎完全满足于呈现事物的机械轮廓，例如鲸鱼的空虚轮廓；就效果如画而言，这相当于勾勒出金字塔的轮廓。就连著名的露脊鲸捕手斯科斯比，在给我们展示了一具僵硬的格陵兰鲸鱼和三四个精致的独角鲸和鼠海豚微型模型之后，又给我们展示了一系列经典的船钩、砍刀和抓钩雕刻品；列文虎克以微观的勤奋，将九十六个放大的北极雪晶的事实明喻交给了一个颤抖的世界。我无意贬低这位出色的航海家（我向他致敬，因为他是一位退伍军人），但在如此重要的事情上，没有为每颗水晶提供在格陵兰太平绅士面前宣誓的宣誓书，这无疑是一个疏忽。

In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are two other French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes himself ‘H. Durand.’ One of them, though not precisely adapted to our present purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other accounts. It is a quiet noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French whaler anchored, inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the loosened sails of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the background, both drooping together in the breezeless air. The effect is very fine, when considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen under one of their few aspects of oriental repose. The other engraving is quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the vessel (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a quay; and a boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is about giving chase to whales in the distance. The harpoons and lances lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its hole; while from a sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands half-erect out of the water, like a rearing horse. From the ship, the smoke of the torments of the boiling whale is going up like the smoke over a village of smithies; and to windward, a black cloud, rising up with earnest of squalls and rains, seems to quicken the activity of the excited seamen.
除了来自 Garnery 的精美版画之外，还有另外两幅值得注意的法国版画，由一位订阅了“H.杜兰德。”其中之一虽然不完全适合我们目前的目的，但在其他方面值得一提。这是太平洋诸岛之间宁静的午间景象。一艘法国捕鲸船在近岸抛锚，风平浪静，懒洋洋地在船上取水；松散的船帆，背景中棕榈树的长叶子，都在无风的空气中一起下垂。考虑到它呈现了顽强的渔民在东方休息的少数方面之一，效果非常好。另一幅雕刻则完全不同：船在公海上停泊，在利维坦生命的中心，旁边有一只露脊鲸；船只（在切入动作中）驶向怪物，就像驶向码头一样；一艘小船，从这片热闹的景象中匆匆驶出，正要去追逐远处的鲸鱼。鱼叉和长矛平放以供使用；三个桨手正把桅杆插进洞里；当海浪突然翻滚时，小船半直地立在水面上，就像一匹扬起的马。船上，沸腾的鲸鱼所受的折磨所产生的烟雾正在升腾，就像铁匠村上空的烟雾一样；迎风处，一片黑云升起，夹杂着狂风大雨，似乎加快了兴奋的海员们的活动。

Chapter 57
第57章

Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.
画中的鲸鱼；在牙齿；在木头；在铁片中；在石头里；在山区；在星星中。

On Tower-hill, as you go down to the London docks, you may have seen a crippled beggar (or KEDGER, as the sailors say) holding a painted board before him, representing the tragic scene in which he lost his leg. There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats (presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) is being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale. Any time these ten years, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited that stump to an incredulous world. But the time of his justification has now come. His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you will find in the western clearings. But, though for ever mounted on that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with downcast eyes, stands ruefully contemplating his own amputation.
在塔山上，当您前往伦敦码头时，您可能会看到一个瘸腿的乞丐（或水手们所说的“KEDGER”）面前举着一块彩绘板，代表着他失去腿的悲惨场景。三鲸三船；其中一艘船（据推测完好无损地包含着失踪的腿）正被最前面的鲸鱼的下巴咬碎。他们告诉我，这十年来，那个人是否曾举起过那幅画，并向一个难以置信的世界展示过那个树桩。但现在他辩护的时刻已经到来。无论如何，他的三头鲸鱼是沃平出版过的最好的鲸鱼。毫无疑问，他的树桩与你在西部空地上发现的任何树桩一样。但是，尽管可怜的捕鲸人永远站在那个树桩上，却从未发表过任何树桩演讲；但是，他低垂着眼睛，悲伤地站着，思考着自己的截肢。

Throughout the Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag Harbor, you will come across lively sketches of whales and whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on Sperm Whale-teeth, or ladies’ busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material, in their hours of ocean leisure. Some of them have little boxes of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the skrimshandering business. But, in general, they toil with their jack-knives alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor, they will turn you out anything you please, in the way of a mariner’s fancy.
在整个太平洋地区，以及在楠塔基特岛、新贝德福德和萨格港，您都会看到鲸鱼和捕鲸场景的生动草图，这些草图是由渔民自己刻在抹香鲸牙齿上的，或者是用右边的女士制作的木板。鲸骨和其他类似的 skrimshander 物品，捕鲸人在海洋休闲时用粗糙的材料精心雕刻出许多巧妙的小发明。其中一些有小盒子，里面装有看起来像牙科的工具，专门用于 skrimhanding 业务。但一般来说，他们都是独自拿着折刀干活。而且，凭借水手几乎无所不能的工具，他们会以水手的幻想方式为你提供任何你想要的东西。

Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man to that condition in which God placed him, i.e. what is called savagery. Your true whale-hunter is as much a savage as an Iroquois. I myself am a savage, owning no allegiance but to the King of the Cannibals; and ready at any moment to rebel against him.
远离基督教世界和文明的长期流放不可避免地使一个人恢复到上帝放置他的状态，即所谓的野蛮状态。真正的捕鲸者就像易洛魁人一样野蛮。我本人是一个野蛮人，除了食人者之王之外不效忠；并随时准备反抗他。

Now, one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic hours, is his wonderful patience of industry. An ancient Hawaiian war-club or spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving, is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon. For, with but a bit of broken sea-shell or a shark’s tooth, that miraculous intricacy of wooden net-work has been achieved; and it has cost steady years of steady application.
现在，野蛮人在家庭时间里的独特特征之一就是他对勤奋的惊人耐心。古老的夏威夷战棒或矛桨，其丰富的多样性和精美的雕刻，就像拉丁语词典一样是人类毅力的伟大战利品。因为，只需要一点破碎的贝壳或鲨鱼的牙齿，就可以实现神奇而复杂的木网；并且它的成本稳定多年的稳定应用。

As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage. With the same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark’s tooth, of his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not quite as workmanlike, but as close packed in its maziness of design, as the Greek savage, Achilles’s shield; and full of barbaric spirit and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine old Dutch savage, Albert Durer.
正如夏威夷野蛮人一样，白人水手野蛮人也是如此。凭借同样惊人的耐心，用他那把可怜的折叠刀的同一颗鲨鱼牙齿，他会为你雕刻出一点骨头雕塑，不像希腊人那样熟练，但在其迷宫般的设计中紧密包装。野蛮，阿喀琉斯之盾；充满了野蛮的精神和暗示，就像那位优秀的荷兰老野蛮人阿尔伯特·杜勒的版画一样。

Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out of the small dark slabs of the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met with in the forecastles of American whalers. Some of them are done with much accuracy.
在美国捕鲸船的前甲板上经常可以看到木鲸，或者说是从高贵的南海战木的黑色小木板上切割出来的鲸鱼的轮廓。其中一些做得非常准确。

At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales hung by the tail for knockers to the road-side door. When the porter is sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best. But these knocking whales are seldom remarkable as faithful essays. On the spires of some old-fashioned churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for weather-cocks; but they are so elevated, and besides that are to all intents and purposes so labelled with ‘HANDS OFF!’ you cannot examine them closely enough to decide upon their merit.
在一些古老的山墙屋顶乡间别墅里，您会看到黄铜鲸鱼的尾巴挂在路边的门环上。当搬运工困了的时候，砧头鲸是最好的选择。但这些敲击鲸鱼很少能作为忠实的文章而引人注目。在一些老式教堂的尖顶上，你会看到铁板鲸鱼被放置在那里作为风向标；但它们是如此崇高，除此之外，它们的所有意图和目的都被贴上了“放手！”的标签，你无法足够仔细地检查它们来决定它们的优点。

In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of high broken cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against them in a surf of green surges.
在地球上骨肉多、肋骨多的地区，在高高破碎的悬崖底部，大量的岩石散布在平原上，形成奇妙的群落，你经常会发现一些图像，比如部分融入草丛中的利维坦的石化形式，刮风的日子在绿色的浪涛中向他们袭来。

Then, again, in mountainous countries where the traveller is continually girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there from some lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles of whales defined along the undulating ridges. But you must be a thorough whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else so chance-like are such observations of the hills, that your precise, previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery; like the Soloma Islands, which still remain incognita, though once high-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera chronicled them.
然后，在山区国家，旅行者不断地被圆形剧场的高地所包围。从某些幸运的角度，您会时不时地瞥见沿着起伏的山脊界定的鲸鱼的轮廓。但您必须是一名彻底的捕鲸者，才能看到这些景象；不仅如此，如果你想再次回到这样的景象，你必须确定并获取你第一个立场点的精确相交的纬度和经度，否则对山丘的观察就像偶然一样，你的精确的、先前的立场需要费力地重新发现；就像索洛马群岛一样，尽管高领的门达纳曾经踏足过它们，老菲格拉也记录了它们，但它仍然是未知的。

Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to trace out great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; as when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies locked in battle among the clouds. Thus at the North have I chased Leviathan round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the bright points that first defined him to me. And beneath the effulgent Antarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis, and joined the chase against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of Hydrus and the Flying Fish.
当你的主题不断扩大时，你也不会在星空中追踪到巨大的鲸鱼和追逐它们的船只；就像东方各国长期充满战争思想时，看到军队在云层中陷入战斗一样。因此，在北方，我用最初定义我的亮点的旋转追逐着利维坦，绕着极地转了一圈又一圈。在南极光辉灿烂的天空下，我登上了阿尔戈-纳维斯号，加入了对远在九头蛇和飞鱼的极限之外的星空鲸鱼座的追逐。

With a frigate’s anchors for my bridle-bitts and fasces of harpoons for spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost skies, to see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless tents really lie encamped beyond my mortal sight!
有了护卫舰的锚作为我的缰绳，鱼叉的束带作为马刺，我是否可以骑上那头鲸鱼，飞跃最高的天空，看看传说中的天堂及其无数的帐篷是否真的在我凡人的视线之外安营扎寨！

Chapter 58
第58章

Brit.
英国人。

Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we fell in with vast meadows of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which the Right Whale largely feeds. For leagues and leagues it undulated round us, so that we seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden wheat.
从克罗泽特群岛向东北方向行驶，我们进入了广阔的英国草甸，这是一种微小的黄色物质，露脊鲸主要以这种物质为食。它在我们周围起伏了好几里，所以我们似乎正在航行穿过一望无际的成熟金色麦田。

On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure from the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that wondrous Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated from the water that escaped at the lip.
第二天，人们看到了许多露脊鲸，它们避开了像培廓德号这样的抹香捕鲸者的攻击，张着下巴缓慢地游过英国，嘴里粘着那奇妙的威尼斯百叶窗的边缘纤维。 ，以这种方式与从边缘逸出的水分离。

As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and seethingly advance their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads; even so these monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and leaving behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.*
作为早晨的割草者，他们肩并肩地缓慢地、激动地推进镰刀，穿过沼泽地的长而潮湿的草丛；尽管如此，这些怪物还是游动着，发出一种奇怪的、青草般的、尖锐的声音。并在黄色的大海上留下了无尽的蓝色。*

*That part of the sea known among whalemen as the ‘Brazil Banks’ does not bear that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there being shallows and soundings there, but because of this remarkable meadow-like appearance, caused by the vast drifts of brit continually floating in those latitudes, where the Right Whale is often chased.
*被捕鲸者称为“巴西浅滩”的那片海域并不像纽芬兰浅滩那样被称为“巴西浅滩”，因为那里有浅滩和水深，而是因为这种引人注目的草地状外观，是由广阔的水域造成的。英国人的漂流不断地漂浮在那些纬度地区，露脊鲸经常在这里被追逐。

But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all reminded one of mowers. Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they paused and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else. And as in the great hunting countries of India, the stranger at a distance will sometimes pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing them to be such, taking them for bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even so, often, with him, who for the first time beholds this species of the leviathans of the sea. And even when recognised at last, their immense magnitude renders it very hard really to believe that such bulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all parts, with the same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse.
但只有他们与英国人分开时发出的声音才让人想起割草机。从桅杆顶看去，尤其是当它们停下来静止一会儿时，它们巨大的黑色形状看起来更像是毫无生气的岩石块。就像在印度的狩猎大国一样，远处的陌生人有时会经过平原上躺着的大象，却不知道它们是这样的，把它们当作光秃秃的、黑色的土壤高地；即便如此，经常和他一起，第一次看到这种海洋巨兽。即使最终被认识到，它们的巨大规模也让人很难相信，如此庞大的过度生长在所有部位都可能是本能，与狗或马的生命相同。

Indeed, in other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the deep with the same feelings that you do those of the shore. For though some old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land are of their kind in the sea; and though taking a broad general view of the thing, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for example, does the ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answers to the sagacious kindness of the dog? The accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be said to bear comparative analogy to him.
事实上，在其他方面，你很难对任何深海生物有与岸上生物相同的感情。尽管一些老博物学家坚持认为陆地上的所有生物与海洋中的生物都是同类。尽管从广泛的角度来看这件事，但很可能是这样；然而，说到特色，例如，海洋中是否有鱼类在性情上与狗的睿智和善相匹配？在任何一般方面，都可以说只有那条可恶的鲨鱼与他具有类比性。

But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita, so that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his one superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of all mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters; though but a moment’s consideration will teach, that however baby man may brag of his science and skill, and however much, in a flattering future, that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever, to the crack of doom, the sea will insult and murder him, and pulverize the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; nevertheless, by the continual repetition of these very impressions, man has lost that sense of the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it.
但尽管如此，对于一般的陆地居民来说，海洋上的土著居民一直被认为是难以言表的不合群和令人厌恶的情绪。尽管我们知道海洋是一个永恒的未知世界，所以哥伦布航行了无数未知的世界，发现了他唯一一个肤浅的西方世界；然而，千钧一发的情况下，最可怕的致命灾难自古以来就无差别地降临在数以万计、数十万涉水者身上；不过，稍加思考就会告诉我们，无论小男人如何吹嘘自己的科学和技能，无论在多么美好的未来，科学和技能都会增强；然而，永远永远，直到厄运来临，大海将侮辱和谋杀他，并粉碎他所能制造的最庄严、最坚固的护卫舰；然而，通过不断重复这些印象，人类已经失去了原本属于海洋的那种完全可怕的感觉。

The first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguese vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow. That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships of last year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah’s flood is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.
我们读到的第一艘船漂浮在海洋上，葡萄牙人的复仇征服了整个世界，没有留下一个寡妇。现在，同样的海洋正在翻滚；同一个海洋摧毁了去年失事的船只。是的，愚蠢的凡人，诺亚的洪水还没有消退；它所覆盖的公平世界的三分之二。

Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews, when under the feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and swallowed them up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews.
海洋和陆地有何不同，一方的奇迹与另一方的奇迹不同？当可拉和他的同伴脚下，大地裂开并永远吞没了他们时，超自然的恐惧降临在希伯来人身上。然而，现代的太阳永远不会落下，但正如生机勃勃的大海吞噬船只和船员一样。

But not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it is also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host who murdered his own guests; sparing not the creatures which itself hath spawned. Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of ships. No mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snorting like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean overruns the globe.
但海洋不仅是人类的敌人，而人类又是它的外星生物，而且它也是它自己后代的恶魔。比杀害自己客人的波斯主人还要糟糕；不要放过那些本身产生的生物。就像一只野蛮的母老虎在丛林中翻腾，覆盖着自己的幼崽，同样，即使是最强大的鲸鱼也会被大海冲撞到岩石上，然后将它们与破碎的船只残骸并排留在那里。没有怜悯，没有力量，但它自己控制着它。无主的海洋像一匹失去骑手的疯狂战马一样喘息着、喷着鼻息，席卷了全球。

Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded creatures glide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure. Consider also the devilish brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, once more, the universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each other, carrying on eternal war since the world began.
考虑大海的微妙；最可怕的生物如何在水下滑行，大部分时间是不明显的，并且危险地隐藏在最可爱的蔚蓝色调之下。还要考虑一下许多最无情的部落的恶魔般的光彩和美丽，就像许多鲨鱼种类的精致装饰形状一样。再一次考虑一下海洋中普遍存在的同类相食现象；所有的生物都互相残杀，自世界诞生以来就进行着永恒的战争。

Consider all this; and then turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the sea and the land; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the horrors of the half known life. God keep thee! Push not off from that isle, thou canst never return!
考虑这一切；然后转向这片绿色、温柔、最温顺的大地；考虑海洋和陆地；难道你没有发现自己身上有一个奇怪的类比吗？因为正如这片可怕的海洋包围着青翠的土地一样，在人类的灵魂中也存在着一个岛屿塔希提岛，它充满了和平与欢乐，但却被未知生活的所有恐怖所包围。愿上帝保佑你！不要离开那个岛，你永远不会回来！

Chapter 59
第59章

Squid.
乌贼。

Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the Pequod still held on her way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a gentle air impelling her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three tall tapering masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms on a plain. And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely, alluring jet would be seen.
裴阔德号缓慢地涉过英国的草地，仍然坚持向东北方向驶向爪哇岛。一股柔和的空气推动着她的龙骨，因此在周围的宁静中，她的三根高大的锥形桅杆随着微风轻轻地摇曳，就像平原上的三只温和的棕榈树一样。尽管如此，在银色的夜色中，每隔一段时间就会看到那架孤独而迷人的喷气机。

But one transparent blue morning, when a stillness almost preternatural spread over the sea, however unattended with any stagnant calm; when the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a golden finger laid across them, enjoining some secrecy; when the slippered waves whispered together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the visible sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
但在一个透明蓝色的早晨，海面上弥漫着一种近乎超自然的寂静，尽管没有任何停滞的平静；当水面上长长的、闪闪发亮的阳光林间空地就像一根金手指放在他们身上，要求保密时；当波浪轻柔地流过时，低语在一起；在可见球体的深沉寂静中，达古从主桅杆顶看到了一个奇怪的幽灵。

In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before our prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills. Thus glistening for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose, and silently gleamed. It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick? thought Daggoo. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the negro yelled out—‘There! there again! there she breaches! right ahead! The White Whale, the White Whale!’
远处，一团巨大的白色物体懒洋洋地升起，升得越来越高，脱离了蔚蓝，最后在我们的船头闪闪发光，就像一场新的雪崩，从山上滑下来。就这样闪闪发光了一会儿，然后慢慢地平息下来，沉下去了。然后再次升起，静静地闪烁着光芒。它看起来不是鲸鱼，而是一条鲸鱼。但这就是莫比迪克吗？达古想。幽灵再次倒下，但当他再次出现时，伴随着一声尖利的叫声，所有人都从点头中惊醒，黑人大喊道：“在那里！又来了！她就在那里突破了！就在前面！白鲸，白鲸！’

Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the bees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood on the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave his orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction indicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo.
这时，海员们纷纷冲向船帆桁，就像蜜蜂在蜂拥而至的树枝上一样。在闷热的阳光下，亚哈光着头，站在船头斜桅上，一只手远远地放在后面，准备向舵手挥舞他的命令，他热切地朝达古伸出的一动不动的手臂所指示的方向投去热切的目光。

Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect the ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness betrayed him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave orders for lowering.
一架静止而孤独的飞机的掠过是否逐渐对亚哈产生了影响，因此他现在准备将温和和休息的想法与他所追捕的特定鲸鱼的第一眼联系起来？不管这是什么，还是他的渴望出卖了他？不管是哪种情况，当他清楚地看到那团白色物体时，他立即下达了降低的命令。

The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab’s in advance, and all swiftly pulling towards their prey. Soon it went down, and while, with oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo! in the same spot where it sank, once more it slowly rose. Almost forgetting for the moment all thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous phenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind. A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in length and breadth, of a glancing cream-colour, lay floating on the water, innumerable long arms radiating from its centre, and curling and twisting like a nest of anacondas, as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach. No perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token of either sensation or instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an unearthly, formless, chance-like apparition of life.
四艘船很快就浮出了水面。亚哈先行一步，所有人都迅速向他们的猎物拉去。很快它就沉下去了，我们悬着桨等待它再次出现，瞧！在它沉没的地方，它再次慢慢升起。我们几乎暂时忘记了《白鲸》的所有想法，现在我们凝视着秘密海洋迄今为止向人类揭示的最奇妙的现象。一团巨大的肉质物质，长宽各为弗隆，呈奶油色，漂浮在水面上，无数长臂从其中心向外辐射，像一窝蟒蛇一样卷曲扭曲，仿佛盲目地抓住任何不幸的人。触手可及的物体。它没有明显的面孔或正面；没有任何可以想象的感觉或本能的标志；但却在波涛上起伏不定，是一种神秘、无形、偶然的生命幻影。

As with a low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still gazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice exclaimed—‘Almost rather had I seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to have seen thee, thou white ghost!’
随着一声低沉的吸吮声，它又慢慢消失了，斯塔巴克仍然凝视着它沉没的那片汹涌的海水，用狂野的声音喊道——“我宁愿看到莫比·迪克并与他战斗，也不愿看到你，你这个白鬼” ！'

‘What was it, Sir?’ said Flask.
“那是什么，先生？”弗拉斯克问道。

‘The great live squid, which, they say, few whale-ships ever beheld, and returned to their ports to tell of it.’
“据说，很少有捕鲸船见过这种巨大的活鱿鱼，而且它们都回到了港口，讲述了它的故事。”

But Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel; the rest as silently following.
但亚哈什么也没说。他调转船头，驶回船上。其余人则默默跟随。

Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connected with the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse of it being so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with portentousness. So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few of them have any but the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and form; notwithstanding, they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale his only food. For though other species of whales find their food above water, and may be seen by man in the act of feeding, the spermaceti whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones below the surface; and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what, precisely, that food consists. At times, when closely pursued, he will disgorge what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length. They fancy that the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to the bed of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is supplied with teeth in order to attack and tear it.
无论抹香鲸捕鲸者对看到这个物体有什么迷信，可以肯定的是，看到它是非常不寻常的，这种情况已经远远赋予了它不祥的色彩。很少有人看到它，尽管他们都声称它是海洋中最大的有生命的东西，但很少有人对它的真实性质和形式有任何最模糊的想法；尽管如此，他们相信它是抹香鲸唯一的食物。因为虽然其他种类的鲸鱼在水面上寻找食物，并且人类在进食时可以看到它们，但鲸油却在水面以下的未知区域获取其全部食物。只有通过推论，任何人都可以准确地判断出食物的成分。有时，当受到密切追击时，他会吐出被认为是鱿鱼分离的手臂的东西；其中一些因此表现出超过二十和三十英尺的长度。他们想象这些手臂所属的怪物通常会靠在他们身边附着在海底。与其他物种不同的是，抹香鲸拥有牙齿，以便攻击和撕裂它。

There seems some ground to imagine that the great Kraken of Bishop Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into Squid. The manner in which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising and sinking, with some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two correspond. But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible bulk he assigns it.
似乎有一些理由可以想象蓬托普丹主教的伟大海妖最终可能会化身为乌贼。主教描述它的方式，即交替上升和下降，以及他叙述的其他一些细节，在这一切中，两者是一致的。但考虑到他分配的令人难以置信的数量，有必要进行大量削减。

By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the mysterious creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of cuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would seem to belong, but only as the Anak of the tribe.
一些博物学家隐约听说过这里提到的这种神秘生物的传闻，认为它属于乌贼类，事实上，在某些外表方面，它似乎属于乌贼类，但只是作为乌贼的阿纳克鱼。部落。

Chapter 60
第60章

The Line.
线路。

With reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described, as well as for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented, I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible whale-line.
参考即将描述的捕鲸场景，以及为了更好地理解其他地方呈现的所有类似场景，我在这里谈论神奇的、有时是可怕的鲸鱼线。

The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp, slightly vapoured with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the case of ordinary ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliable to the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more convenient to the sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary quantity too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in general by no means adds to the rope’s durability or strength, however much it may give it compactness and gloss.
最初用于渔业的绳索是最好的大麻，用焦油稍微蒸发，而不是像普通绳索那样浸渍；因为通常使用的焦油使大麻对绳索制造者来说更柔韧，并且还使绳索本身更方便水手在普通船舶上使用；然而，普通的数量不仅会使鲸鱼线变得过于僵硬，无法承受鲸鱼必须承受的紧密盘绕；但正如大多数海员开始了解到的那样，焦油通常不会增加绳索的耐用性或强度，无论它如何赋予绳索紧凑性和光泽。

Of late years the Manilla rope has in the American fishery almost entirely superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though not so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far more soft and elastic; and I will add (since there is an aesthetics in all things), is much more handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, dark fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassian to behold.
近年来，马尼拉绳在美国渔业中几乎完全取代了大麻作为捕鲸绳的材料。因为，虽然不如大麻那么耐用，但它更坚固，而且更柔软、更有弹性；我要补充一点（因为万物皆有美感），比大麻更美观、更适合船。大麻是一个皮肤黝黑、皮肤黝黑的家伙，有点像印第安人。但马尼拉看上去就像一个金发碧眼的切尔克斯人。

The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At first sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is. By experiment its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal to three tons. In length, the common sperm whale-line measures something over two hundred fathoms. Towards the stern of the boat it is spirally coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though, but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely bedded ‘sheaves,’ or layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the ‘heart,’ or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese. As the least tangle or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take somebody’s arm, leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in its tub. Some harpooneers will consume almost an entire morning in this business, carrying the line high aloft and then reeving it downwards through a block towards the tub, so as in the act of coiling to free it from all possible wrinkles and twists.
鲸鱼线的厚度只有三分之二英寸。乍一看，你不会认为它真的那么强大。通过实验，它的一根和五十根纱线将分别悬挂一百二十磅的重量；这样整根绳子将承受近三吨的拉力。常见抹香鲸的长度超过两百英寻。朝向船尾，它在浴缸中螺旋盘绕，虽然不像蒸馏器的蠕虫管，但形成一个圆形的、奶酪状的密集层“滑轮”或同心螺旋层的团块，除了“心脏”或在奶酪轴上形成的微小垂直管外，没有任何空心。由于盘绕中最轻微的缠结或扭结，在用完时，肯定会导致某人的手臂、腿或整个身体脱落，因此在将线存放在桶中时要采取最大限度的预防措施。一些标枪手会在这项工作中花费几乎整个上午的时间，将鱼线高高举起，然后通过一个块将其向下拉向浴缸，以便在卷绕的过程中消除所有可能的皱纹和扭曲。

In the English boats two tubs are used instead of one; the same line being continuously coiled in both tubs. There is some advantage in this; because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more readily into the boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American tub, nearly three feet in diameter and of proportionate depth, makes a rather bulky freight for a craft whose planks are but one half-inch in thickness; for the bottom of the whale-boat is like critical ice, which will bear up a considerable distributed weight, but not very much of a concentrated one. When the painted canvas cover is clapped on the American line-tub, the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a prodigious great wedding-cake to present to the whales.
英国船上使用两个浴缸而不是一个。同一条线连续盘绕在两个桶中。这样做有一些好处；因为这些双浴缸非常小，所以更容易放入船上，并且不会对船造成太大压力；然而，美国的浴缸直径近三英尺，深度适当，对于木板厚度只有半英寸的船只来说，货物相当庞大。因为捕鲸船的底部就像临界冰一样，可以承受相当大的分散重量，但不能承受太多集中重量。当彩绘帆布盖拍在美国线浴缸上时，这艘船看起来就像是带着一个巨大的婚礼蛋糕驶向鲸鱼。

Both ends of the line are exposed; the lower end terminating in an eye-splice or loop coming up from the bottom against the side of the tub, and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything. This arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts. First: In order to facilitate the fastening to it of an additional line from a neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as to threaten to carry off the entire line originally attached to the harpoon. In these instances, the whale of course is shifted like a mug of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort. Second: This arrangement is indispensable for common safety’s sake; for were the lower end of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomed boat would infallibly be dragged down after him into the profundity of the sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again.
线两端裸露；下端终止于一个环眼接头或环，从底部抵住浴缸的侧面，并悬挂在其边缘上，与所有东西完全脱离。下端的这种布置对于两个帐户来说是必要的。第一：为了便于将邻近船只上的额外绳索固定在其上，以防受击的鲸鱼发出的声音太深，以至于可能会带走原来连接在鱼叉上的整条绳索。在这些情况下，鲸鱼当然会像一杯啤酒一样从一艘船转移到另一艘船；尽管第一艘船总是在手边盘旋以协助其配偶。第二：为了共同安全，这种安排是必不可少的；因为如果绳索的下端以任何方式连接到船上，并且鲸鱼然后像有时那样几乎在冒着烟的一分钟内将绳索拉到末端，他不会停在那里，因为注定要失败。船肯定会跟着他被拖入大海的深处。那样的话，镇上的宣传员就再也找不到她了。

Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line is taken aft from the tub, and passing round the loggerhead there, is again carried forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswise upon the loom or handle of every man’s oar, so that it jogs against his wrist in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they alternately sit at the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in the extreme pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From the chocks it hangs in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat again; and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled upon the box in the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a little further aft, and is then attached to the short-warp—the rope which is immediately connected with the harpoon; but previous to that connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry mystifications too tedious to detail.
在放下船进行追逐之前，将绳索的上端从浴缸中取出，绕过那里的红蠵，再次向前推进整个船的长度，横向放置在每个人桨的织机或手柄上，以便划船时它会在他的手腕上慢跑；当他们轮流坐在相对的船舷上时，也会从两个人之间经过，到达船头最尖的铅制木楔或凹槽，那里有一个普通羽毛笔大小的木销或串，防止它滑出。它从导缆孔上以轻微的花彩形式悬挂在船头上方，然后再次进入船内。大约十或二十英寻（称为箱线）盘绕在船头的盒子上，它继续延伸到船尾稍远的船舷，然后连接到短经线 - 立即连接的绳索用鱼叉；但在这种联系之前，短暂的扭曲经历了各种繁琐的神秘事件，无法详细说明。

Thus the whale-line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils, twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction. All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so that to the timid eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs. Nor can any son of mortal woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies, and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to quiver in him like a shaken jelly. Yet habit—strange thing! what cannot habit accomplish?—Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes, and brighter repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you will hear over the half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus hung in hangman’s nooses; and, like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward, the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every neck, as you may say.
因此，鲸鱼线将整艘船折叠成复杂的线圈，几乎向各个方向扭曲和扭动。所有桨手都卷入了危险的扭曲之中；因此，在胆怯的土地居民看来，他们就像印第安杂耍者，最致命的蛇嬉戏地缠绕在他们的四肢上。凡间女子的儿子也不能第一次坐在那些麻麻错综复杂的地方，在用尽全力划桨的同时，想到他在任何未知的时刻鱼叉可能会被射出，所有这些可怕的扭曲都会被投入其中。像环形闪电一样玩耍；遇到这样的情况，他不可能不颤抖，让他的骨髓像动摇的果冻一样颤抖。然而习惯——奇怪的事情！还有什么是习惯不能完成的呢？——快乐的俏皮话、更多的欢乐、更好的笑话和更聪明的妙语连珠，你在桃花心木上听不到的，就像你在捕鲸船的半英寸白雪松木上听到的那样，当这样挂在刽子手的绞索上时;就像爱德华国王面前的加莱六名市民一样，组成船员的六名男子被拉进了死亡之口，正如你可能会说的那样，每个人的脖子上都套着缰绳。

Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for those repeated whaling disasters—some few of which are casually chronicled—of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line, and lost. For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat, is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of a steam-engine in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and wheel, is grazing you. It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the heart of these perils, because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and you are pitched one way and the other, without the slightest warning; and only by a certain self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of volition and action, can you escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run away with where the all-seeing sun himself could never pierce you out.
也许现在只要稍微思考一下，你就能解释那些反复发生的捕鲸灾难——其中有一些是随意记录的——这个人或那个人被绳子从船上带出来，然后迷路了。因为，当绳子飞出时，坐在船上，就像坐在蒸汽机的引擎中，每根飞梁、轴和轮子都在擦过。你。情况更糟；因为你不能坐在这些危险的中心一动不动，因为船像摇篮一样摇晃，你在没有任何警告的情况下左右摇摆。只有通过某种自我调节的浮力以及意志和行动的同步，你才能避免被变成马泽帕，并逃到全视太阳本身永远无法将你刺穿的地方。

Again: as the profound calm which only apparently precedes and prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself; for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal powder, and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the line, as it silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought into actual play—this is a thing which carries more of true terror than any other aspect of this dangerous affair. But why say more? All men live enveloped in whale-lines. All are born with halters round their necks; but it is only when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death, that mortals realize the silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life. And if you be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you would not at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated before your evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side.
再说一遍：正如表面上预示着暴风雨之前和预示着暴风雨的深刻平静，也许比暴风雨本身更可怕；事实上，平静不过是暴风雨的外衣和信封。并将其包含在其自身中，就像看似无害的步枪中含有致命的火药、球和爆炸一样；因此，在投入实际比赛之前，绳索优雅的静止状态，静静地绕着桨手蜿蜒而行——这比这一危险事件的任何其他方面都更能带来真正的恐怖。但为什么要多说呢？所有的人都生活在鲸鱼线的包围之中。一切生来脖子上都挂着缰绳；但只有当人陷入迅速而突然的死亡时，人才会意识到生命中无声的、微妙的、永远存在的危险。如果你是一位哲学家，即使你坐在捕鲸船里，你内心也不会比坐在你晚上的篝火前，身边放着一根拨火棍而不是鱼叉更感到恐惧。

Chapter 61
第61章

Stubb Kills a Whale.
斯塔布杀死了一头鲸鱼。

If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents, to Queequeg it was quite a different object.
如果对星巴克来说，鱿鱼的出现是一种不祥之兆，那么对魁魁格来说，则是一个完全不同的物体。

‘When you see him ‘quid,’ said the savage, honing his harpoon in the bow of his hoisted boat, ‘then you quick see him ‘parm whale.’
“当你看到他‘奎德’时，”野蛮人一边说，一边在升起的船头磨着鱼叉，“那么你很快就会看到他‘帕姆鲸’。”

The next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special to engage them, the Pequod’s crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Ocean through which we then were voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground; that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish, and other vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the Rio de la Plata, or the in-shore ground off Peru.
第二天极其平静和闷热，没有什么特别的事情可以吸引他们，裴廓德号的船员们几乎无法抗拒由如此空旷的大海带来的睡眠。因为我们当时航行经过的这片印度洋并不是捕鲸者所说的热闹之地；也就是说，与拉普拉塔河沿岸或秘鲁近海相比，这里很少能看到鼠海豚、海豚、飞鱼和其他活跃水域中的活泼生物。

It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and with my shoulders leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayed in what seemed an enchanted air. No resolution could withstand it; in that dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul went out of my body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum will, long after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.
轮到我站在前桅顶了；我的肩膀靠在松弛的皇家裹尸布上，在一种似乎被施了魔法的空气中懒洋洋地来回摇摆。任何决心都经不起它；在那种失去知觉的梦幻般的心情中，我的灵魂终于脱离了我的身体；尽管在最初推动它的力量消失很久之后，我的身体仍然继续像钟摆一样摇摆。

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen at the main and mizzen-mast-heads were already drowsy. So that at last all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman. The waves, too, nodded their indolent crests; and across the wide trance of the sea, east nodded to west, and the sun over all.
在我完全忘记之前，我注意到主桅杆头和后桅杆头的水手们已经昏昏欲睡了。最后，我们三个人都死气沉沉地从桅杆上荡下来，每一次摆动，沉睡的舵手都会从下方点头。海浪也懒洋洋地点着波峰。越过广阔的大海，东方向西方点头，阳光照耀着一切。

Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes; like vices my hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible, gracious agency preserved me; with a shock I came back to life. And lo! close under our lee, not forty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling in the water like the capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of an Ethiopian hue, glistening in the sun’s rays like a mirror. But lazily undulating in the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his vapoury jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a warm afternoon. But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last. As if struck by some enchanter’s wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts of the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted forth the accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted the sparkling brine into the air.
突然间，我闭上的眼睛下似乎有气泡破裂了；我的双手像虎钳一样抓住了裹尸布；某种无形的、仁慈的力量保护了我；我大吃一惊，又活过来了。瞧！在我们的背风处附近，距我们不到四十英寻的地方，一头巨大的抹香鲸在水中翻滚，就像一艘翻船的护卫舰船体，它宽阔、光滑的背，呈埃塞俄比亚色调，在阳光下像镜子一样闪闪发光。但鲸鱼在海槽中懒洋洋地起伏，时不时平静地喷出蒸气，看起来就像一个在温暖的午后抽着烟斗的肥胖市民。但那根烟斗，可怜的鲸鱼，是你的最后一根烟斗了。仿佛被某个巫师的魔杖击中，沉睡的船和船上的每个沉睡的人一下子都苏醒了。随着那条大鱼缓慢而有规律地向空中喷出闪闪发光的盐水，船上的各个部分都发出了超过二十个声音，同时从高处传来了三声音符，大声喊出了惯常的叫声。

‘Clear away the boats! Luff!’ cried Ahab. And obeying his own order, he dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes.
‘清理船只！拉夫！”亚哈喊道。他按照自己的命令，在舵手操作辐条之前将舵猛地放下。

The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and ere the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward, but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he swam, that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave orders that not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in whispers. So seated like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats, we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the noiseless sails being set. Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and then sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.
船员们突然的惊呼肯定惊动了鲸鱼；在船只沉没之前，他庄严地转向，游向下风方向，但他游得如此平静，游动时几乎没有产生涟漪，以至于他认为自己可能还没有惊慌，于是下令不要这样做。应该使用桨，除了低声说话之外，任何人都不得说话。我们像安大略印第安人一样坐在船舷上，快速而安静地划着船。平静的风帆被无声地扬起。不久，当我们如此滑翔追击时，怪物将尾巴垂直地甩到了四十英尺高的空中，然后像一座被吞没的塔一样沉入了视线之外。

‘There go flukes!’ was the cry, an announcement immediately followed by Stubb’s producing his match and igniting his pipe, for now a respite was granted. After the full interval of his sounding had elapsed, the whale rose again, and being now in advance of the smoker’s boat, and much nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb counted upon the honour of the capture. It was obvious, now, that the whale had at length become aware of his pursuers. All silence of cautiousness was therefore no longer of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play. And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the assault.
“侥幸来了！”一声喊叫，斯塔布立即拿出火柴并点燃了烟斗，宣布了这一消息，现在终于得到了喘息的机会。在他的整个探测间隔结束后，鲸鱼再次升起，现在位于吸烟者的船前面，并且比其他任何一艘都离它更近，斯塔布指望捕获的荣誉。现在很明显，鲸鱼终于意识到了他的追赶者。因此，一切谨慎的沉默都不再有用。船桨落下，桨声响起。斯塔布仍然抽着烟斗，为他的船员们的袭击欢呼。

Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish. All alive to his jeopardy, he was going ‘head out”; that part obliquely projecting from the mad yeast which he brewed.*
是的，鱼身上发生了巨大的变化。他冒着危险，准备“出发”。那部分是从他酿造的疯狂酵母中斜伸出来的。*

*It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the entire interior of the sperm whale’s enormous head consists. Though apparently the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about him. So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably does so when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cut-water formation of the lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, he thereby may be said to transform himself from a bluff-bowed sluggish galliot into a sharppointed New York pilot-boat.
*在其他地方可以看到抹香鲸巨大头部的整个内部是由非常轻的物质组成的。虽然表面上是最大的，但它是迄今为止他身上最有活力的部分。因此，他可以轻松地将其举到空中，并且在以最大速度行驶时总是这样做。此外，他头部前部上部的宽度和下部逐渐变细的切水形状，通过倾斜地抬起他的头，可以说他将自己从一个直弓的人变成了一个人。缓慢的帆船撞上了纽约尖尖的领航艇。

‘Start her, start her, my men! Don’t hurry yourselves; take plenty of time—but start her; start her like thunder-claps, that’s all,’ cried Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. ‘Start her, now; give ‘em the long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy—start her, all; but keep cool, keep cool—cucumbers is the word—easy, easy—only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the buried dead perpendicular out of their graves, boys—that’s all. Start her!’
‘启动她，启动她，我的伙计们！别着急；花很多时间——但要开始她；斯塔布喊道，一边说着，一边喷出烟雾。 ‘现在就开始她；给他们长而有力的击球，Tashtego。启动她，塔什，我的孩子——启动她，全部；但保持冷静，保持冷静——黄瓜就是这个词——简单，简单——只是让她像可怕的死亡和咧着嘴笑的魔鬼一样开始，然后把埋葬的死者垂直地从坟墓里抬起来，孩子们——仅此而已。开始她吧！

‘Woo-hoo! Wa-hee!’ screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke which the eager Indian gave.
‘呜呼！哇——嘿！”同性恋头目尖叫着回应，天空中响起了古老的战争呐喊声。紧张的船上的每一位桨手都不由自主地向前弹起，急切的印第安人发出了巨大的领先划桨。

But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild. ‘Kee-hee! Kee-hee!’ yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat, like a pacing tiger in his cage.
但他狂野的尖叫声得到了同样狂野的其他人的回应。 ‘琪熙！ “咳咳！”达古喊道，他在座位上前后用力，就像一只在笼子里踱来踱去的老虎。

‘Ka-la! Koo-loo!’ howled Queequeg, as if smacking his lips over a mouthful of Grenadier’s steak. And thus with oars and yells the keels cut the sea. Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the van, still encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke from his mouth. Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the welcome cry was heard—‘Stand up, Tashtego!—give it to him!’ The harpoon was hurled. ‘Stern all!’ The oarsmen backed water; the same moment something went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists. It was the magical line. An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two additional turns with it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its increased rapid circlings, a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled with the steady fumes from his pipe. As the line passed round and round the loggerhead; so also, just before reaching that point, it blisteringly passed through and through both of Stubb’s hands, from which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas sometimes worn at these times, had accidentally dropped. It was like holding an enemy’s sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time striving to wrest it out of your clutch.
‘卡拉！咕噜！”奎魁格嚎叫着，好像在咂嘴地吃着掷弹兵牛排。就这样，随着桨和呼喊，龙骨划开了大海。与此同时，斯塔布保留在货车中的位置，仍然鼓励他的手下进攻，同时从嘴里吐出烟雾。他们像亡命徒一样用力拉扯，直到听到欢迎的呼喊声——“站起来，塔什特戈！——把鱼叉给他！”鱼叉被投掷了出去。 “船尾！”桨手们逆水而行。就在同一时刻，有什么东西变热，并沿着他们的手腕发出嘶嘶声。这就是神奇的线条。就在之前，斯塔布又迅速地用它绕着赤蠵龟转了两圈，由于它的旋转速度越来越快，一股麻蓝色的烟雾现在喷射出来，与他烟斗里不断冒出的烟雾混合在一起。当队伍一圈又一圈地绕过红海时；同样，就在到达那一点之前，它起泡地穿过斯塔布的双手，手布或有时穿的绗缝帆布不小心从手中掉落。这就像握住敌人的锋利的两刃剑的剑刃，而那个敌人一直在努力从你的手中夺走它。

‘Wet the line! wet the line!’ cried Stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated by the tub) who, snatching off his hat, dashed sea-water into it.* More turns were taken, so that the line began holding its place. The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins. Stubb and Tashtego here changed places—stem for stern—a staggering business truly in that rocking commotion.
‘把线弄湿！弄湿了绳子！”斯塔布对着浴缸桨手（他坐在浴缸旁边）喊道，桨手抓起帽子，将海水泼进浴缸里。船现在像一条长满鳍的鲨鱼一样在沸腾的水中飞行。斯塔布和塔什特戈在这里换了位置——船尾换成了船尾——在这场摇摇欲坠的骚动中，这确实是一件令人震惊的事情。

*Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be stated, that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the running line with water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or bailer, is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is the most convenient.
*部分为了表明这一行为的必要性，这里可以说明一下，在古老的荷兰渔业中，人们使用拖把来用水冲刷运行线；在许多其他船只上，专门为此目的设置了一个木制的存水桶或水桶。然而，你的帽子是最方便的。

From the vibrating line extending the entire length of the upper part of the boat, and from its now being more tight than a harpstring, you would have thought the craft had two keels—one cleaving the water, the other the air—as the boat churned on through both opposing elements at once. A continual cascade played at the bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of a little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and main clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the foam; and the tall form of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double, in order to bring down his centre of gravity. Whole Atlantics and Pacifics seemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale somewhat slackened his flight.
从延伸整个船上部整个长度的振动线来看，从它现在比竖琴弦更紧来看，你会认为这艘船有两个龙骨——一个劈开水，另一个龙骨——就像船一样同时通过两种对立的元素搅动。船头连续不断地奏出瀑布声；她身后的漩涡不断旋转；只要从内部发出最轻微的动作，即使只是一根小手指，振动、破裂的飞船就会从她痉挛性的船舷倾斜到大海中。他们就这样冲了过去；每个人都竭尽全力紧紧抓住自己的座位，以免被抛到泡沫上。操舵桨处的塔什特戈身材高大，几乎蹲下身子，以降低重心。当他们在途中飞行时，整个大西洋和太平洋似乎都过去了，直到最后鲸鱼稍微放慢了他的飞行速度。

‘Haul in—haul in!’ cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round towards the whale, all hands began pulling the boat up to him, while yet the boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb, firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternately sterning out of the way of the whale’s horrible wallow, and then ranging up for another fling.
“拉进来——拉进来！”斯塔布对弓箭手喊道！然后，所有的人都把脸转向鲸鱼，开始把船拉向他，而船却被拖走了。很快，斯塔布从侧翼爬上来，用膝盖牢牢地踩住笨拙的夹板，一次又一次地向飞鱼冲去。随着一声令下，船轮流转向避开鲸鱼可怕的翻滚，然后又向上猛冲。

The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down a hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, which bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The slanting sun playing upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its reflection into every face, so that they all glowed to each other like red men. And all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot from the spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and again, by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again sent it into the whale.
赤潮从怪物的四面八方倾泻而下，就像小溪从山上流下来。他饱受折磨的身体不是在盐水中翻滚，而是在鲜血中翻滚，鲜血在他们身后沸腾沸腾了好几英里。斜阳照在这片深红色的海池上，把它的倒影反射到每一张脸上，让他们都像红人一样互相辉映。与此同时，鲸鱼的气孔令人痛苦地喷出一股又一股白烟，兴奋的刽子手嘴里喷出一股又一股猛烈的烟雾。就像每次飞镖一样，斯塔布用他那弯曲的长矛（用连在它上面的线）拉住，一次又一次地把它拉直，对船舷进行几次快速的打击，然后一次又一次地将它射入鲸鱼。

‘Pull up—pull up!’ he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning whale relaxed in his wrath. ‘Pull up!—close to!’ and the boat ranged along the fish’s flank. When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned his long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully churning and churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold watch that the whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of breaking ere he could hook it out. But that gold watch he sought was the innermost life of the fish. And now it is struck; for, starting from his trance into that unspeakable thing called his ‘flurry,’ the monster horribly wallowed in his blood, overwrapped himself in impenetrable, mad, boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping astern, had much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied twilight into the clear air of the day.
“拉起来——拉起来！”他现在向弓箭手喊道，而那头衰弱的鲸鱼在他的愤怒中放松了。 “拉上来！——靠近！”船沿着鱼的侧面行驶。当到达船头较远的地方时，斯塔布慢慢地将他长而锋利的长矛刺入鱼中，并保持在那里，小心地搅动又搅动，仿佛小心翼翼地寻找一块金表，看看鲸鱼是否可能吞下它，而他很害怕。在他能把它钩出来之前就断掉了。但他寻找的那块金表却是鱼最深处的生命。现在它被击中了；因为，从他的恍惚状态开始，进入那种被称为“乱舞”的难以形容的东西，怪物可怕地在他的血液中打滚，把自己包裹在难以穿透的、疯狂的、沸腾的喷雾中，因此，这艘处于危险之中的飞船立即向后坠落，盲目地挣扎着费了很大的劲。从那充满活力的暮色中走出来，进入白日的清新空气中。

And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled out into view; surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and contracting his spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations. At last, gush after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees of red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping down his motionless flanks into the sea. His heart had burst!
现在，鲸鱼的慌乱已经平息，再次出现在视野中。左右涌动；他的喷孔痉挛性地扩张和收缩，伴随着尖锐、破裂、痛苦的呼吸。最后，一股股凝结的红色血迹喷涌而出，仿佛是红酒中的紫色酒糟，喷射到令人恐惧的空气中；然后又向后倒去，滴着水沿着他一动不动的侧腹跑进海里。他的心都快炸裂了！

‘He’s dead, Mr. Stubb,’ said Daggoo.
“他死了，斯塔布先生，”达古说。

‘Yes; both pipes smoked out!’ and withdrawing his own from his mouth, Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for a moment, stood thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.
'是的;斯塔布把烟斗从嘴里抽出来，把死灰撒在水面上。他站了一会儿，若有所思地注视着他所造的巨大尸体。

Chapter 62
第62章

The Dart.
飞镖。

A word concerning an incident in the last chapter.
说一下上一章的一个事件。

According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat pushes off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost oar, the one known as the harpooneer-oar. Now it needs a strong, nervous arm to strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called a long dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of twenty or thirty feet. But however prolonged and exhausting the chase, the harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost; indeed, he is expected to set an example of superhuman activity to the rest, not only by incredible rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid exclamations; and what it is to keep shouting at the top of one’s compass, while all the other muscles are strained and half started—what that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, I cannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same time. In this straining, bawling state, then, with his back to the fish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry—‘Stand up, and give it to him!’ He now has to drop and secure his oar, turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the whale. No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can you expect to find it there when most wanted!
根据渔业的惯例，捕鲸船从船上驶离，由刽子手或捕鲸者担任临时舵手，鱼叉手或捕鲸员拉动最前面的桨，即所谓的鱼叉手桨。 。现在它需要一只强壮而紧张的手臂来将第一块铁打入鱼中；因为通常，在所谓的长飞镖中，重型工具必须被扔到二十或三十英尺的距离。但无论追逐的时间多么漫长、多么疲惫，标枪手都必须在同一时间将桨拉到底。事实上，人们期望他为其他人树立超人活动的榜样，不仅通过令人难以置信的划船，而且通过不断大声和勇敢的惊叹；当所有其他肌肉都处于紧张状态并处于半启动状态时，继续竭尽全力地大喊是什么滋味——除了那些尝试过的人之外，没有人知道这是什么。其一，我不能一边放声大哭，一边鲁莽地工作。在这种紧张、嚎叫的状态下，疲惫的标枪手背对着鱼，突然听到了令人兴奋的叫声——“站起来，把鱼交给他！”他现在必须放下桨，固定住他的桨，转身在他的中间，他从胯部抓住鱼叉，并用仅剩的一点力气，试图以某种方式将其投向鲸鱼。 难怪，将整个捕鲸船队集中在一起，在五十次公平的飞镖机会中，没有五个是成功的；难怪那么多倒霉的标枪手受到疯狂的咒骂和贬低。难怪他们中的一些人真的在船上破裂了血管。难怪有些抹香鲸捕鲸者带着四个桶缺席四年。难怪对于许多船主来说，捕鲸只是一个失败的事情。因为航行的是标枪手，如果你把他的呼吸从他身上夺走，你怎么能指望在最需要的时候找到他呢！

Again, if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant, that is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneer likewise start to running fore and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of themselves and every one else. It is then they change places; and the headsman, the chief officer of the little craft, takes his proper station in the bows of the boat.
同样，如果飞镖成功，那么在第二个关键时刻，即鲸鱼开始奔跑时，船头和鱼叉手同样开始前后奔跑，以至他们自己和其他人都面临迫在眉睫的危险。就在那时，他们交换了位置；船长，即这艘小船的大副，在船头就职。

Now, I care not who maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in the bows from first to last; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance, and no rowing whatever should be expected of him, except under circumstances obvious to any fisherman. I know that this would sometimes involve a slight loss of speed in the chase; but long experience in various whalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vast majority of failures in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer that has caused them.
现在，我不在乎谁主张相反的观点，但这一切都是愚蠢且不必要的。刽子手应该自始至终呆在船头；他应该同时投掷鱼叉和长矛，并且不应该对他进行任何划船，除非在对任何渔夫来说都是显而易见的情况下。我知道这有时会导致追逐过程中速度略有下降；但是，对多个国家的捕鲸者的长期经验使我确信，在绝大多数渔业失败中，造成这种情况的原因绝不是鲸鱼的速度，而是前面描述的鱼叉手的精疲力尽。他们。

To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooneers of this world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and not from out of toil.
为了确保飞镖的最大效率，这个世界的标枪手必须从懒惰中开始，而不是从辛劳中开始。

Chapter 63
第63章

The Crotch.
胯部。

Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs. So, in productive subjects, grow the chapters.
树干外，枝条长出；其中，有树枝。因此，在富有成效的主题中，要增加章节。

The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention. It is a notched stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which is perpendicularly inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow, for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the harpoon, whose other naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow. Thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from the wall. It is customary to have two harpoons reposing in the crotch, respectively called the first and second irons.
前一页提到的胯部值得单独提及。它是一根形状奇特的有凹口的棍子，长约两英尺，垂直插入船头附近的右舷船缘，目的是为鱼叉的木制末端提供休息，而鱼叉的另一个裸露的、有倒刺的末端倾斜地倾斜。船头的项目。这样一来，投掷者就可以立即将武器抓到手中，而投掷者则可以像边远地区的人从墙上挥动步枪一样轻松地把武器从静止状态中抓起。习惯上在胯部放置两支鱼叉，分别称为一铁、二铁。

But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming drag, one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold. It is a doubling of the chances. But it very often happens that owing to the instantaneous, violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving the first iron, it becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however lightning-like in his movements, to pitch the second iron into him. Nevertheless, as the second iron is already connected with the line, and the line is running, hence that weapon must, at all events, be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat, somehow and somewhere; else the most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands. Tumbled into the water, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare coils of box line (mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in most instances, prudently practicable. But this critical act is not always unattended with the saddest and most fatal casualties.
但这两个鱼叉，各有一根绳子，都与绳子相连；目的是这样的：如果可能的话，将它们两个立即一个接一个地射入同一头鲸鱼中；这样，如果在接下来的阻力中，一个人退出，另一个人仍然可以保持住。这是双倍的机会。但经常发生的情况是，由于鲸鱼在接到第一个铁杆后会立即剧烈地、抽搐地奔跑，因此鱼叉手无论动作多么闪电，都不可能将第二个铁杆投向他。然而，由于第二根铁杆已经与绳索连接，并且绳索正在运行，因此无论如何，该武器必须以某种方式、在某个地方预期地从船上扔掉；否则，最可怕的危险将涉及所有人。跌入水中，相应地就是这种情况；盒线的备用线圈（在前一章中提到）使得这一壮举在大多数情况下都可以谨慎地实现。但这一关键行动并不总是无人关注，造成最悲惨和最致命的伤亡。

Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrown overboard, it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror, skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines, or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions. Nor, in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is fairly captured and a corpse.
此外：你必须知道，当第二根铁杆被扔到海里时，它从此变成了一个悬而未决的、锋利的恐怖物，在船和鲸鱼周围摇摇晃晃地弯曲，缠住线，或切断它们，并在各个方向产生惊人的感觉。一般来说，在鲸鱼被完全捕获并成为尸体之前，也不可能再次保护它。

Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engaging one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to these qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be simultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is supplied with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually darted without recovery. All these particulars are faithfully narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate several most important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be painted.
现在考虑一下，如果四艘船都与一只异常强壮、活跃且知识渊博的鲸鱼交战，情况会怎样？由于他身上的这些品质，以及如此大胆的事业所发生的数以千计的事故，八到十根松动的第二根铁杆可能同时在他周围晃来晃去。当然，每艘船都配备了几支鱼叉，如果第一支鱼叉没有恢复而无效地射出，它们可以弯曲到鱼线上。所有这些细节都在这里得到了忠实的叙述，因为它们将在以后绘制的场景中阐明几个最重要的，无论多么复杂的段落。

Chapter 64
第64章

Stubb’s Supper.
斯塔布的晚餐。

Stubb’s whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow business of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty thumbs and fingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpse in the sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long intervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass we moved. For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call it, in China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we towed heavily forged along, as if laden with pig-lead in bulk.
斯塔布的鲸鱼是在离船有一段距离的地方被杀死的。这是一种平静；于是，我们组成了三艘船的串联，开始了将奖杯拖到裴阔德号的缓慢工作。而现在，当我们十八个人用三十六条手臂，一百八十个拇指和手指，一小时又一小时地在海中那具惰性、迟缓的尸体上慢慢劳作时；它似乎几乎一动不动，除非间隔很长一段时间。在此提供了充分的证据来证明我们所移动的物体的巨大性。因为，在中国的杭河大运河上，或者不管他们怎么称呼它，人行道上的四五个工人将以每小时一英里的速度拉出一艘笨重的货物；但我们拖着的这艘大商船是经过重重锻造的，好像装满了散装的猪铅。

Darkness came on; but three lights up and down in the Pequod’s main-rigging dimly guided our way; till drawing nearer we saw Ahab dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks. Vacantly eyeing the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders for securing it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman, went his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again until morning.
黑暗降临了；但是“裴阔德”号主索具上上下的三盏灯隐约地指引着我们的方向。直到走近了，我们看到亚哈在舷墙上又扔了一盏灯笼。他茫然地注视着那头起伏的鲸鱼片刻，然后像往常一样发出了夜间固定它的命令，然后将灯笼交给了一名水手，走进了船舱，直到早上才再次出现。

Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature was dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed working in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that Moby Dick was yet to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were brought to his ship, all that would not one jot advance his grand, monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thought from the sound on the Pequod’s decks, that all hands were preparing to cast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes. But by those clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored. Tied by the head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies with its black hull close to the vessel’s and seen through the darkness of the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two—ship and whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one reclines while the other remains standing.*
不过，在监督追捕这条鲸鱼的过程中，亚哈船长表现出了他的惯常活动，如此称呼它；然而现在这个生物已经死了，某种隐约的不满，或者不耐烦，或者绝望，似乎在他心里产生了作用。仿佛看到那具尸体让他想起莫比·迪克还没有被杀死。尽管还有上千条鲸鱼被带到了他的船上，但所有这些都无法推进他宏伟而偏执的目标。很快，你就会从裴廓德号甲板上的声音想到，所有的人都在准备在深处抛锚；因为沉重的链条正沿着甲板被拖拽，推力从舷窗中嘎嘎作响。但通过那些叮当作响的链接，停泊的是巨大的尸体本身，而不是船。头被绑在船尾，尾巴被绑在船头，鲸鱼现在躺在那里，它的黑色船体靠近船只，透过夜晚的黑暗可以看到，它遮住了桅杆和高处的索具，两艘船和鲸鱼，似乎像巨大的公牛一样被套在一起，其中一只斜躺着，另一只则站着。*

*A little item may as well be related here. The strongest and most reliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside, is by the flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part is relatively heavier than any other (excepting the side-fins), its flexibility even in death, causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat, in order to put the chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a small, strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end, and a weight in its middle, while the other end is secured to the ship. By adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side of the mass, so that now having girdled the whale, the chain is readily made to follow suit; and being slipped along the body, is at last locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the point of junction with its broad flukes or lobes.
*这里也可能有一个小项目相关。当船停泊在旁边时，船对鲸鱼的最强大和最可靠的固定是通过尾翼或尾部；由于其密度较大，该部分比其他任何部分（侧鳍除外）相对重，因此即使死亡，其灵活性也会使其沉入水面以下；这样你就无法用手从船上抓住它，以便将链条放在它周围。但这个困难被巧妙地克服了：准备了一根小而坚固的线，线的外端有一个木浮子，中间有一个重物，而另一端则固定在船上。通过巧妙的管理，木浮子可以在鲸鱼的另一侧升起，这样现在已经环绕着鲸鱼了，链子也可以轻松地跟随。沿着身体滑动，最后紧紧地锁定在尾巴最小的部分上，在与宽阔的尾翼或叶瓣的连接点上。

If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was he in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely manifest. Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.
如果说喜怒无常的亚哈现在完全平静了，至少据甲板上所知，他的二副斯塔布则因征服而涨红了脸，流露出一种不寻常但仍然善良的兴奋。他的忙碌程度非比寻常，以至于他的官方上司、古板的星巴克也悄悄地把事务的唯一管理权交给了他。斯塔布如此热闹的一个小原因很快就以奇怪的方式显现出来。斯塔布脾气暴躁。他有点无节制地喜欢鲸鱼，认为它是一种味道鲜美的东西。

‘A steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cut me one from his small!’
“在我睡觉前吃一份牛排，吃一份牛排！”你，达古！你走得太远了，从他的小号上给我剪一张！

Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a general thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defray the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceeds of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.
值得注意的是，虽然这些野生渔民一般来说并没有按照伟大的军事格言让敌人支付当前的战争费用（至少在实现航行收益之前），但现在然后你会发现一些楠塔基特人对斯塔布指定的抹香鲸的特定部分有着真正的兴趣；包括身体逐渐变细的末端。

About midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two lanterns of sperm oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper at the capstan-head, as if that capstan were a sideboard. Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on whale’s flesh that night. Mingling their mumblings with his own mastications, thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming round the dead leviathan, smackingly feasted on its fatness. The few sleepers below in their bunks were often startled by the sharp slapping of their tails against the hull, within a few inches of the sleepers’ hearts. Peering over the side you could just see them (as before you heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters, and turning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of the whale of the bigness of a human head. This particular feat of the shark seems all but miraculous. How at such an apparently unassailable surface, they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the universal problem of all things. The mark they thus leave on the whale, may best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking for a screw.
大约午夜时分，牛排被切好并煮熟了。斯塔布在两盏鲸油灯的照明下，坚定地站在绞盘头上吃鲸蜡晚餐，仿佛那个绞盘是一个餐具柜。斯塔布并不是那天晚上唯一享用鲸鱼肉的人。成千上万的鲨鱼将他们的咕哝声与他自己的咀嚼声混合在一起，聚集在死去的利维坦周围，大口地享用着它的肥肉。下面几个睡在铺位上的人经常被尾巴猛烈地拍击船体的声音吓到，距离他们的心脏只有几英寸。从侧面看去，你可以看到它们（就像你之前听到它们之前一样）在闷闷不乐、黑色的海水中打滚，当它们挖出人头那么大的巨大球状鲸鱼碎片时，它们仰面翻身。鲨鱼的这一特殊壮举看起来简直是奇迹。它们如何在这样一个看似无懈可击的表面上挖出如此对称的一口，仍然是所有事物的普遍问题的一部分。它们在鲸鱼身上留下的痕迹，最能比喻为木匠在为螺丝钻埋头孔时所形成的空心。

Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharks will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship’s decks, like hungry dogs round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every killed man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant butchers over the deck-table are thus cannibally carving each other’s live meat with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, the sharks, also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are quarrelsomely carving away under the table at the dead meat; and though, were you to turn the whole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the same thing, that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties; and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave ships crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down, touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most socially congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no conceivable time or occasion when you will find them in such countless numbers, and in gayer or more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm whale, moored by night to a whaleship at sea. If you have never seen that sight, then suspend your decision about the propriety of devil-worship, and the expediency of conciliating the devil.
尽管在海战的所有硝烟弥漫的恐怖和恶魔般的气氛中，人们仍会看到鲨鱼渴望地凝视着船的甲板，就像饥饿的狗围着一张正在切红肉的桌子，准备把每一个被扔到船上的死者扑倒在地。他们;尽管，当甲板上英勇的屠夫们用镀金和流苏的切肉刀互相残杀时，鲨鱼也用它们镶满宝石的嘴巴，在桌子底下争吵着切肉。死肉;不过，如果你把整个事情颠倒过来，它仍然几乎是同一件事，也就是说，这对各方来说都是令人震惊的鲨鱼事件；尽管鲨鱼也是所有穿越大西洋的奴隶船的常客，它们有系统地在旁边小跑，以便在包裹被运送到任何地方或死去的奴隶被体面埋葬时派上用场；尽管可能还可以举出一两个其他类似的例子，涉及到鲨鱼最社交聚集、最热闹的盛宴时的规定条件、地点和场合；然而，在任何时间或场合，你都会发现它们数量如此之多，而且心情比夜间停泊在海上捕鲸船上的死抹香鲸周围更快乐或更快乐。如果你从未见过那样的景象，那就暂缓你对魔鬼崇拜的正当性和安抚魔鬼的权宜之计的决定。

But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that was going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of his own epicurean lips.
但是，到目前为止，斯塔布并没有注意到他身边正在进行的宴会的咕哝声，就像鲨鱼没有注意到他自己享乐主义嘴唇的咂嘴声一样。

‘Cook, cook!—where’s that old Fleece?’ he cried at length, widening his legs still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper; and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing with his lance; ‘cook, you cook!—sail this way, cook!’
“做饭，做饭！——那个旧羊毛在哪里？”他最后喊道，双腿进一步张开，仿佛要为他的晚餐打下一个更安全的基础。同时，他将叉子插入盘子中，就像用长矛刺入一样。 “厨师，你做饭！——往这边航行，厨师！”

The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously roused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like his other pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of command, came to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb’s sideboard; when, with both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways inclining his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.
老黑人并没有因为之前在最不合时宜的时刻从温暖的吊床上被叫醒而感到非常高兴，而是摇摇晃晃地从厨房里走出来，因为像许多老黑人一样，他的膝盖出了问题，他没有像其他平底锅那样好好擦洗它；这个老弗利斯，他们这样称呼他，拖着脚一瘸一拐地走来，用钳子辅助他的脚步，钳子是用拉直的铁圈制成的，笨拙地做成了。这辆老乌木艰难地前行，遵照命令，在斯塔布餐具柜的对面停了下来。他双手交叠在身前，拄着双腿拐杖，弓起的背部进一步弯曲，同时头侧向一侧，以便充分发挥他最好的耳朵的作用。

‘Cook,’ said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his mouth, ‘don’t you think this steak is rather overdone? You’ve been beating this steak too much, cook; it’s too tender. Don’t I always say that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough? There are those sharks now over the side, don’t you see they prefer it tough and rare? What a shindy they are kicking up! Cook, go and talk to ‘em; tell ‘em they are welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they must keep quiet. Blast me, if I can hear my own voice. Away, cook, and deliver my message. Here, take this lantern,’ snatching one from his sideboard; ‘now then, go and preach to ‘em!’
“库克，”斯塔布说着，迅速夹起一块略带红色的肉放到嘴里，“你不觉得这块牛排煮得太过头了吗？厨师，你把这块牛排打得太多了；太嫩了。我不是常说，鲸鱼排一定要硬，才好吃吗？现在旁边有那些鲨鱼，你没看到它们更喜欢坚硬和稀有的吗？他们踢得多么闪亮啊！做饭，去跟他们说话；告诉他们，欢迎他们文明、适度地自助，但他们必须保持安静。如果我能听到自己的声音，就骂我吧。走开，做饭，传达我的信息。来，拿着这个灯笼，”从他的餐具柜里抓起一盏； “那么，现在就去向‘他们’传道吧！”

Sullenly taking the offered lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck to the bulwarks; and then, with one hand dropping his light low over the sea, so as to get a good view of his congregation, with the other hand he solemnly flourished his tongs, and leaning far over the side in a mumbling voice began addressing the sharks, while Stubb, softly crawling behind, overheard all that was said.
老弗利斯闷闷不乐地接过递来的灯笼，一瘸一拐地穿过甲板走向舷墙。然后，他一只手将手电筒低垂在海面上，以便能清楚地看到他的会众，另一只手庄严地挥舞着他的钳子，远远地靠在船边，用咕哝的声音开始对鲨鱼讲话，而斯塔布则轻轻地爬到后面，无意中听到了大家所说的一切。

‘Fellow-critters: I’se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam noise dare. You hear? Stop dat dam smackin’ ob de lips! Massa Stubb say dat you can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor! you must stop dat dam racket!’
“小动物们：我奉命来这里是为了告诉你们，你们必须阻止那些敢于制造噪音的行为。”你听？别再咂嘴了！马萨·斯塔布（Massa Stubb）说你可以把你的母鼠肚子填满到孵化，但是天啊！你必须阻止那个大坝的喧嚣！

‘Cook,’ here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a sudden slap on the shoulder,—‘Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustn’t swear that way when you’re preaching. That’s no way to convert sinners, cook!’
“做饭，”斯塔布插话道，伴随着这个词，他突然拍了一下肩膀，“做饭！为什么，该死的你的眼睛，你在讲道时不可以那样咒骂。这不是让罪人皈依的方法，厨师！”

‘Who dat? Den preach to him yourself,’ sullenly turning to go.
是谁？丹恩亲自向他讲道，”闷闷不乐地转身要走。

‘No, cook; go on, go on.’
“不，做饭；”继续，继续。

‘Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters:’-
“好吧，巢穴，白露贝的同胞们：”——

‘Right!’ exclaimed Stubb, approvingly, ‘coax ‘em to it; try that,’ and Fleece continued.
“对！”斯塔布赞许地喊道，“哄他们去吧；”尝试一下，”弗里斯继续说道。

‘Do you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I zay to you, fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness—‘top dat dam slappin’ ob de tail! How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin’ and bitin’ dare?’
“你们都是鲨鱼，生性贪婪，但我对你们说，动物同胞们，就是贪婪——‘顶上大坝拍打’ob de tail！你觉得怎么样，假设你继续保持这样的大坝拍击和咬敢？

‘Cook,’ cried Stubb, collaring him, ‘I won’t have that swearing. Talk to ‘em gentlemanly.’
“库克，”斯塔布喊道，搂住他，“我不会说脏话。”以“绅士风度”与他们交谈。

Once more the sermon proceeded.
布道再次继续进行。

‘Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don’t blame ye so much for; dat is natur, and can’t be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de pint. You is sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den you be angel; for all angel is not’ing more dan de shark well goberned. Now, look here, bred’ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping yourselbs from dat whale. Don’t be tearin’ de blubber out your neighbour’s mout, I say. Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat whale? And, by Gor, none on you has de right to dat whale; dat whale belong to some one else. I know some o’ you has berry brig mout, brigger dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de small bellies; so dat de brigness of de mout is not to swaller wid, but to bit off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can’t get into de scrouge to help demselves.’
‘同胞们，你们的顽强，我并不因此责怪你们；这是自然的，也是无可奈何的；但对于邪恶的自然来说，这就是品脱。你是鲨鱼，沙丁；但如果你内心是鲨鱼，为什么你会成为天使？因为天使并不比鲨鱼更懂事。现在，看这里，弟兄们，试着成为cibil，帮助自己摆脱那头鲸鱼。我说，别从你邻居的嘴里扯出鲸脂。难道一只鲨鱼对那条鲸鱼来说不是很正确吗？而且，老天，你们谁都没有权利对待那条鲸鱼；那条鲸鱼属于别人。我知道你们有些人有浆果双桅船，双桅船和奥德斯；但双桅船的嘴有时也有小肚子；所以，这口的快感并不是要吞食，而是要为小鲨鱼咬掉鲸脂，这样他们就无法进入卑鄙的世界来帮助自己。

‘Well done, old Fleece!’ cried Stubb, ‘that’s Christianity; go on.’
“干得好，老弗利斯！”斯塔布喊道，“这就是基督教；这就是基督教。”继续。'

‘No use goin’ on; de dam willains will keep a scougin’ and slappin’ each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don’t hear one word; no use a-preaching to such dam g’uttons as you call ‘em, till dare bellies is full, and dare bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get ‘em full, dey wont hear you den; for den dey sink in the sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and can’t hear noting at all, no more, for eber and eber.’
“继续下去是没有用的”；马萨·斯塔布（Massa Stubb），大威林们会不断地殴打和打耳光。他们一个字也听不见；向你们所说的那些该死的家伙说教是没有用的，直到敢的肚子已经饱了，敢的肚子是无底的；当他们吃饱的时候，他们就听不到你的声音了；因为它们会沉入大海，快去珊瑚上睡觉，根本听不到任何声音，再也不会了，因为埃伯和埃伯。

‘Upon my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction, Fleece, and I’ll away to my supper.’
“我的灵魂深处，我也有同样的看法；所以，请祝福，弗利斯，然后我就去吃晚饭了。”

Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised his shrill voice, and cried—
听到这里，弗利斯用双手捂住了这群鱼群，提高了尖锐的声音，喊道——

‘Cussed fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fill your dam bellies ‘till dey bust—and den die.’
‘该死的同胞们！尽你所能地挑起最该死的争吵；填饱你的肚子，“直到它们崩溃——然后死去。”

‘Now, cook,’ said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; ‘stand just where you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular attention.’
“现在，厨师，”斯塔布一边说，一边在绞盘旁继续吃晚饭。 “就站在你之前站的地方，就在我对面，特别注意。”

‘All ‘dention,’ said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the desired position.
“所有的‘齿列’，”弗利斯说道，再次弯下腰，用钳子固定在所需的位置。

‘Well,’ said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; ‘I shall now go back to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you, cook?’
“好吧，”斯塔布一边说，一边自由自在地吃东西。 “我现在要回到这块牛排的主题上来。首先，你多大了，厨师？

‘What dat do wid de ‘teak,’ said the old black, testily.
“柚木是做什么的？”老黑人暴躁地说。

‘Silence! How old are you, cook?’
'安静！厨师，你多大了？

‘‘Bout ninety, dey say,’ he gloomily muttered.
“他们说，大约九十岁。”他阴沉地嘀咕道。

‘And you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years, cook, and don’t know yet how to cook a whale-steak?’ rapidly bolting another mouthful at the last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of the question. ‘Where were you born, cook?’
“厨子，你在这个世界上辛苦生活了一百年了，还不知道怎么做鲸鱼排吗？”说完最后一句话，他又迅速咽了一口，所以这口食物似乎是问题的延续。 “你出生在哪里，厨师？”

‘‘Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin’ ober de Roanoke.’
“在舱口后面，乘坐渡船，前往罗阿诺克之上。”

‘Born in a ferry-boat! That’s queer, too. But I want to know what country you were born in, cook!’
‘出生在渡船上！这也很奇怪。但我想知道你出生在哪个国家，库克！”

‘Didn’t I say de Roanoke country?’ he cried sharply.
“我不是说罗阿诺克乡村吗？”他大声喊道。

‘No, you didn’t, cook; but I’ll tell you what I’m coming to, cook. You must go home and be born over again; you don’t know how to cook a whale-steak yet.’
“不，你没有做饭；”但我会告诉你我要做什么，厨师。你必须回家并重生；你还不知道怎么做鲸鱼排呢。”

‘Bress my soul, if I cook noder one,’ he growled, angrily, turning round to depart.
“我的灵魂，如果我煮了一个，”他愤怒地咆哮着，转身准备离开。

‘Come back here, cook;—here, hand me those tongs;—now take that bit of steak there, and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be? Take it, I say’—holding the tongs towards him—‘take it, and taste it.’
“回到这里，做饭；——这里，把那些钳子递给我；——现在把那块牛排拿过来，告诉我你是否认为牛排煮得应该是这样？拿走它，我说，”——把夹子举向他——“拿走，尝尝。”

Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a moment, the old negro muttered, ‘Best cooked ‘teak I eber taste; joosy, berry joosy.’
老黑人用干瘪的嘴唇轻轻地咂了一会儿，嘟哝道：“我尝过最好吃的柚木；乔西，浆果乔西。’

‘Cook,’ said Stubb, squaring himself once more; ‘do you belong to the church?’
“做饭，”斯塔布说，再次摆好姿势。 “你属于教会吗？”

‘Passed one once in Cape-Down,’ said the old man sullenly.
“在海角唐遇到过一次。”老人阴沉地说。

‘And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town, where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook! And yet you come here, and tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?’ said Stubb. ‘Where do you expect to go to, cook?’
“你一生中曾经路过开普敦的一座神圣教堂，毫无疑问，你在那里无意中听到一位神圣的牧师对他的听众讲话，就像他心爱的同胞一样，你，厨师！但你却来到这里，对我说了一个像你刚才那样可怕的谎言，嗯？”斯塔布说。 “厨师，你想去哪里？”

‘Go to bed berry soon,’ he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.
“快去睡觉吧，贝利。”他边说边半转过身，咕哝道。

‘Avast! heave to! I mean when you die, cook. It’s an awful question. Now what’s your answer?’
‘阿瓦斯特！举起！我的意思是，当你死后，做饭。这是一个糟糕的问题。现在你的答案是什么？

‘When dis old brack man dies,’ said the negro slowly, changing his whole air and demeanor, ‘he hisself won’t go nowhere; but some bressed angel will come and fetch him.’
“当这个老布拉克人死后，”黑人缓慢地说，改变了他的整个神态和举止，“他自己也哪儿也去不了；他会死的。”但会有一位有神气的天使来接他。

‘Fetch him? How? In a coach and four, as they fetched Elijah? And fetch him where?’
‘去抓他？如何？当他们接伊利亚时，乘坐一辆四人马车？带他去哪里？

‘Up dere,’ said Fleece, holding his tongs straight over his head, and keeping it there very solemnly.
“上去，”弗利斯一边说，一边将钳子举过头顶，表情十分严肃。

‘So, then, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you are dead? But don’t you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets? Main-top, eh?’
“所以，那么，当你死后，你会想登上我们的主顶吗？做饭吗？”但你不知道爬得越高，天气就越冷吗？主顶，嗯？

‘Didn’t say dat t’all,’ said Fleece, again in the sulks.
“根本没说这些。”弗利斯再次生闷气地说。

‘You said up there, didn’t you? and now look yourself, and see where your tongs are pointing. But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber’s hole, cook; but, no, no, cook, you don’t get there, except you go the regular way, round by the rigging. It’s a ticklish business, but must be done, or else it’s no go. But none of us are in heaven yet. Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do ye hear? Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t’other a’top of your heart, when I’m giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, there?—that’s your gizzard! Aloft! aloft!—that’s it—now you have it. Hold it there now, and pay attention.’
‘你在上面说的，不是吗？现在看看你自己，看看你的钳子指向哪里。但是，也许你希望通过从笨蛋的洞里爬进去进入天堂，厨师；但是，不，不，厨师，除非你沿着索具绕着常规路走，否则你无法到达那里。这是一件棘手的事情，但必须完成，否则就不行。但我们还没有人在天堂。放下你的钳子，做饭，听我的命令。你们听见了吗？当我下达命令时，一只手握住帽子，另一只手拍打心顶，做饭。什么！那是你的心脏吗？——那是你的砂囊！高高在上！高高在上！——就是这样——现在你拥有了。现在把它放在那里，注意。

‘All ‘dention,’ said the old black, with both hands placed as desired, vainly wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at one and the same time.
“都是‘牙列’，”老黑人说道，双手随意地摆着，徒劳地扭动着花白的头，仿佛要把两只耳朵同时放在前面。

‘Well then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, that I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don’t you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my private table here, the capstan, I’ll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that done, dish it; d’ye hear? And now to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by to get the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused, cook. There, now ye may go.’
“那么，厨子，你看你做的这块鲸鱼排实在是太糟糕了，所以我已经尽快把它放到看不见的地方了。”你看到了，不是吗？好吧，将来，当你为我的私人餐桌（绞盘）烹制另一块鲸鱼排时，我会告诉你该怎么做，以免做得过度而破坏它。一手握住牛排，另一只手向牛排放一块生火；完成后，盛盘；你听到了吗？明天，厨师，当我们切鱼的时候，一定要站在旁边拿取他的鳍尖；把它们放在泡菜里。至于鱼尾的末端，将它们浸泡，煮。好了，现在你们可以走了。

But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.
但弗利斯刚走出三步，就被召回了。

‘Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch. D’ye hear? away you sail, then.—Halloa! stop! make a bow before you go.—Avast heaving again! Whale-balls for breakfast—don’t forget.’
“厨师，给我明天晚上半更时吃的炸肉排。你听到了吗？那么，你就扬帆远航吧。——哈喽！停止！走之前先鞠个躬。——阿瓦斯特再次起伏！早餐吃鲸鱼丸——别忘了。

‘Wish, by gor! whale eat him, ‘stead of him eat whale. I’m bressed if he ain’t more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself,’ muttered the old man, limping away; with which sage ejaculation he went to his hammock.
‘但愿，老兄！鲸鱼吃了他，‘而不是他吃鲸鱼。如果他不是鲨鱼和马萨鲨鱼，我就很高兴了。”老人嘟囔道，一瘸一拐地走开了。他带着睿智的射精走向吊床。

Chapter 65
第65章

The Whale as a Dish.
鲸鱼作为一道菜。

That mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp, and, like Stubb, eat him by his own light, as you may say; this seems so outlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into the history and philosophy of it.
那个凡人应该以喂养他的灯的生物为食，并且像斯塔布一样，用他自己的光来吃掉他，正如你可能会说的；这似乎是一件很奇怪的事情，我们必须稍微了解一下它的历史和哲学。

It is upon record, that three centuries ago the tongue of the Right Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in France, and commanded large prices there. Also, that in Henry VIIIth’s time, a certain cook of the court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species of whale. Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating. The meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and being well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls. The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them. They had a great porpoise grant from the crown.
据记载，三个世纪前，露脊鲸的舌头在法国被视为美味佳肴，并在那里卖得很高的价格。此外，在亨利八世时代，一位宫廷厨师因发明了一种与烤鼠海豚一起食用的令人钦佩的酱汁而获得了丰厚的奖励，你记得，这是一种鲸鱼。事实上，直到今天，海豚仍被认为是美味佳肴。将肉制成台球大小的丸子，经过充分调味和调味后可制成龟丸或小牛肉丸。邓弗姆林的老僧侣们非常喜欢它们。他们从国王那里得到了一笔巨额的海豚赠款。

The fact is, that among his hunters at least, the whale would by all hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so much of him; but when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one hundred feet long, it takes away your appetite. Only the most unprejudiced of men like Stubb, nowadays partake of cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not so fastidious. We all know how they live upon whales, and have rare old vintages of prime old train oil. Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly juicy and nourishing. And this reminds me that certain Englishmen, who long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by a whaling vessel—that these men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps of whales which had been left ashore after trying out the blubber. Among the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called ‘fritters”; which, indeed, they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling something like old Amsterdam housewives’ dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh. They have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly keep his hands off.
事实是，至少在他的猎人中，如果没有那么多鲸鱼，鲸鱼会被所有人认为是一道高贵的菜肴。但当你坐在近百英尺长的肉饼面前时，你的胃口就会消失。如今，只有像斯塔布这样最不带偏见的人才会吃煮熟的鲸鱼。但爱斯基摩人并不那么挑剔。我们都知道他们如何以鲸鱼为生，并且拥有稀有的优质旧火车油。佐格兰达是他们最著名的医生之一，他推荐给婴儿吃鲸脂条，因为它多汁且营养丰富。这让我想起了某些英国人，他们很久以前就被一艘捕鲸船意外地留在了格陵兰岛——这些人实际上靠着尝试过鲸脂后留在岸上的发霉的鲸鱼残骸生活了几个月。在荷兰捕鲸者中，这些残渣被称为“油条”；事实上，它们非常相似，呈棕色，酥脆，闻起来像老阿姆斯特丹家庭主妇的甜甜圈或油菜，新鲜时。它们有着如此可食用的外观，即使是最克己的陌生人也很难不把手放开。

But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish, is his exceeding richness. He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be delicately good. Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as the buffalo’s (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid pyramid of fat. But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that is; like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the third month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter. Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try watches of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship-biscuit into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Many a good supper have I thus made.
但进一步贬低鲸鱼作为文明菜肴的原因是它的丰富性。它是大海里最珍贵的牛，太肥了，不能精致。看看他的驼峰，如果它不是那么坚固的脂肪金字塔的话，它会和水牛的驼峰一样美味（水牛被认为是一道稀有菜肴）。但鲸蜡本身，是多么的温和和奶油味啊！就像生长第三个月的椰子透明的半果冻白肉，但味道太浓郁，无法替代黄油。尽管如此，许多捕鲸者都有办法将其吸收到其他物质中，然后食用。在漫长的夜更里，海员们常常把船上的饼干浸入大油锅里，然后在那里煎一会儿。我就这样做了许多丰盛的晚餐。

In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish. The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump, whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings), they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess, in flavor somewhat resembling calves’ head, which is quite a dish among some epicures; and every one knows that some young bucks among the epicures, by continually dining upon calves’ brains, by and by get to have a little brains of their own, so as to be able to tell a calf’s head from their own heads; which, indeed, requires uncommon discrimination. And that is the reason why a young buck with an intelligent looking calf’s head before him, is somehow one of the saddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at him, with an ‘Et tu Brute!’ expression.
对于小抹香鲸来说，大脑是一道美味佳肴。用斧头将头骨的棺材劈开，取出两个丰满的白色裂片（就像两个大布丁），然后将它们与面粉混合，煮成最美味的一团，味道有点像小牛的味道。头，对于一些美食家来说，这是相当不错的一道菜；大家都知道，美食家中的一些年轻雄鹿，通过不断地吃小牛的大脑，渐渐地拥有了自己的小大脑，从而能够区分小牛的头和自己的头。这确实需要不寻常的歧视。这就是为什么一头长着聪明小牛头的小雄鹿在他面前，是你能看到的最悲伤的景象之一。头颅用一种责备的眼神看着他，脸上带着“Et tu Brute！”的表情。

It is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessively unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him with abhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from the consideration before mentioned: i.e. that a man should eat a newly murdered thing of the sea, and eat it too by its own light. But no doubt the first man that ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung; and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been; and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does. Go to the meat-market of a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the long rows of dead quadrupeds. Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal’s jaw? Cannibals? who is not a cannibal? I tell you it will be more tolerable for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who nailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy pate-de-foie-gras.
也许，这并不完全是因为鲸鱼过于油腻，以至于陆地上的人们似乎对吃它感到厌恶；在某种程度上，这似乎是由于之前提到的考虑而产生的：即一个人应该吃掉新近被谋杀的海洋生物，并通过它自己的光来吃掉它。但毫无疑问，第一个杀牛的人被视为杀人犯。也许他是被绞死的；如果他受到牛的考验，他肯定会受到审判。如果有凶手这样做，他当然罪有应得。周六晚上去肉类市场，看到成群结队的活两足动物盯着一长排死去的四足动物。那景象难道不会把食人者的一颗牙齿从下巴上拔掉吗？食人者？谁不是食人者？我告诉你，对于那些在地窖里腌制瘦身传教士以应对即将到来的饥荒的费吉人来说，这会更容易忍受。我说，在审判之日，对于那个有远见的费吉来说，这比你这个文明开明的美食家更容易忍受，你把鹅钉在地上，在你的鹅肝酱中享用它们肿胀的肝脏。

But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he? and that is adding insult to injury, is it? Look at your knife-handle, there, my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is that handle made of?—what but the bones of the brother of the very ox you are eating? And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that fat goose? With a feather of the same fowl. And with what quill did the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders formally indite his circulars? It is only within the last month or two that that society passed a resolution to patronise nothing but steel pens.
但是斯塔布，他靠鲸鱼自己的光吃掉了鲸鱼，是吗？这真是雪上加霜，不是吗？看看你的刀柄，那里，我文明而开明的美食家正在吃烤牛肉，刀柄是用什么制成的？——除了你正在吃的那头牛的兄弟的骨头之外，还有什么？吃完那只肥鹅后，你用什么剔牙呢？具有同一只家禽的羽毛。禁止虐待甘德斯协会的秘书用什么羽毛笔正式签署了他的通告？直到最近一两个月，社会才通过一项决议，除了钢笔之外什么都不光顾。

Chapter 66
第66章

The Shark Massacre.
鲨鱼大屠杀。

When in the Southern Fishery, a captured Sperm Whale, after long and weary toil, is brought alongside late at night, it is not, as a general thing at least, customary to proceed at once to the business of cutting him in. For that business is an exceedingly laborious one; is not very soon completed; and requires all hands to set about it. Therefore, the common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm a’lee; and then send every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the reservation that, until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is, two and two for an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the deck to see that all goes well.
在南方渔场，当一头被捕获的抹香鲸在经过漫长而疲惫的劳作后，在深夜被带到岸边时，至少作为一般情况，通常不会立即开始将其切入水中。生意是一项极其辛苦的工作；还没有很快完成；并需要全体员工共同努力。因此，常见的用法是收全帆；猛烈地掌舵；然后把下面的每个人都送到吊床上直到天亮，但在此之前，必须保持抛锚值班；也就是说，两个小时、两个小时，每对夫妇、船员轮流登上甲板，以确保一切顺利。

But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the Pacific, this plan will not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts of sharks gather round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on a stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning. In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not so largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to tickle them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in the present case with the Pequod’s sharks; though, to be sure, any man unaccustomed to such sights, to have looked over her side that night, would have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and those sharks the maggots in it.
但有时，特别是在太平洋线上，这个计划根本不起作用。因为如此多的鲨鱼聚集在停泊的尸体周围，如果他留在那里六个小时，比如说，在一个伸展的时间里，到早上就只能看到骷髅了。然而，在海洋的大多数其他地方，这些鱼并不大量存在，通过用锋利的捕鲸铲大力搅动它们，它们的惊人贪婪有时会大大减弱，尽管如此，在某些情况下，似乎只会刺激他们进行更大的活动。但在目前的裴阔德鲨案例中，情况并非如此。不过，可以肯定的是，任何一个不习惯这种景象的人，那天晚上从她这边看过去时，几乎都会认为整个圆形的大海就是一块巨大的奶酪，而那些鲨鱼就是里面的蛆虫。

Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came on deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for immediately suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering three lanterns, so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid sea, these two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an incessant murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deep into their skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamy confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not always hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the incredible ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at each other’s disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, and bit their own; till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over again by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound. Nor was this all. It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these creatures. A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality seemed to lurk in their very joints and bones, after what might be called the individual life had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his skin, one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg’s hand off, when he tried to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.
尽管如此，当斯塔布在晚饭结束后设置抛锚值班时；因此，当魁魁格和一名艏楼水手来到甲板上时，鲨鱼们兴奋不已。立即将切割台悬挂在舷侧，放下三个灯笼，使它们在浑浊的大海上投射出长长的光芒，这两个水手挥舞着长长的捕鲸铲，不断地屠杀鲨鱼，*将锋利的钢铁深深地击入他们的头骨，这似乎是他们唯一重要的部分。但在混杂而挣扎的大军的混乱中，射手们并不总能击中目标。这让人们重新认识到了敌人令人难以置信的凶残。他们不仅恶毒地撕咬对方的内脏，还像灵活的弓一样弯曲，咬住自己的尸体。直到这些内脏似乎被同一张嘴一遍又一遍地吞下，却又被张开的伤口排空。这还不是全部。干涉这些生物的尸体和鬼魂是不安全的。在所谓的个体生命消失之后，一种普遍的或泛神论的活力似乎潜伏在他们的关节和骨骼中。为了剥皮，这些鲨鱼被杀死并吊在甲板上，当可怜的魁魁格试​​图合上他凶残的下巴时，其中一只鲨鱼几乎夺走了他的手。

*The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; is about the bigness of a man’s spread hand; and in general shape, corresponds to the garden implement after which it is named; only its sides are perfectly flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than the lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when being used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. In its socket, a stiff pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
*用于切入的捕鲸铲采用最好的钢材制成；是关于一个人张开的手的大小；总体形状与其命名的园林工具相对应；只是它的侧面是完全平坦的，而且它的上端比下端窄得多。这把武器始终保持尽可能锋利；使用时偶尔会被磨砺，就像剃刀一样。在它的插座中，插入一根二十到三十英尺长的硬杆作为把手。

‘Queequeg no care what god made him shark,’ said the savage, agonizingly lifting his hand up and down; ‘wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin.’
“魁魁格不管上帝让他变成鲨鱼，”野蛮人痛苦地上下举起手说道。 ‘与费吉神或楠塔基特神结婚；但神创造的鲨鱼一定是英金母系。”

Chapter 67
第67章

Cutting In.
切入。

It was a Saturday night, and such a Sabbath as followed! Ex officio professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You would have thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods.
那是一个星期六的晚上，接下来就是一个安息日！违反安息日的当然教授都是捕鲸者。象牙色的“裴阔德”号看上去已经变成了一片废墟。每个水手都是屠夫。你可能以为我们是在向海神供奉一万头红牛。

In the first place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other ponderous things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green, and which no single man can possibly lift—this vast bunch of grapes was swayed up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head, the strongest point anywhere above a ship’s deck. The end of the hawser-like rope winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass, and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to this block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was attached. And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates, armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the body for the insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two side-fins. This done, a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and the main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving in one dense crowd at the windlass. When instantly, the entire ship careens over on her side; every bolt in her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to the sky. More and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping heave of the windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till at last, a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of blubber. Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an orange, so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is sometimes stripped by spiralizing it. For the strain constantly kept up by the windlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the water, and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the line called the ‘scarf,’ simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates; and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself, it is all the time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end grazes the main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a moment or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it swings, else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.
首先，巨大的切割装置，以及其他笨重的东西，包括一堆通常漆成绿色的木块，没有一个人可以举起——这巨大的一串葡萄被摇到主顶部，并牢牢地绑在上面。下桅杆头，是船舶甲板上方最坚固的点。缠绕在这些错综复杂的地方的缆索状绳索的末端被引导到绞盘上，而滑车的巨大下部块则在鲸鱼上方摆动；重约一百磅的巨大鲸脂钩挂在这块木块上。现在，斯塔巴克和斯塔布分阶段悬挂在船舷上，伙伴们手持长铲，开始在鱼体上切一个洞，以便将钩子插入两个侧鳍中最近的一个上方。完成后，在孔周围切出一条宽阔的半圆形线，插入钩子，船员们的主体开始狂野的合唱，现在开始在绞盘前的密集人群中起起伏伏。瞬间，整艘船向她一侧倾斜；她体内的每一个螺栓都像寒冷天气下老房子的钉头一样启动。她颤抖着，颤抖着，惊恐的桅杆头指向天空。她越来越向鲸鱼倾斜，而卷扬机的每一次喘息的起伏都会得到来自巨浪的帮助起伏。直到最后，突然传来一声令人震惊的急促声音。随着一声巨大的冲力，船从鲸鱼身上向上和向后滚动，胜利的滑车升入视野，拖着第一条鲸脂的脱离的半圆形末端。现在，鲸脂包裹着鲸鱼，就像外皮包裹着橙子一样，它从身体上剥离也正是像橙子有时通过螺旋化而剥离一样。 因为卷扬机不断施加的压力使鲸鱼在水中翻来覆去，而且一条鲸脂沿着一条被称为“围巾”的线均匀地剥落，同时被星巴克和斯塔布的铲子切割，伙伴们；就在它被剥落的同时，事实上正是通过这个动作本身，它一直被举得越来越高，直到它的上端擦过主顶部；然后，绞车上的人停止了摇动，有一两分钟，那巨大的滴着血的物体来回摇晃，就像从天上掉下来一样，在场的每个人都必须小心，当它摇晃时要躲避它，否则它就会可能会打他的耳朵，把他扔到海里。

One of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon called a boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices out a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass. Into this hole, the end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked so as to retain a hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what follows. Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to stand off, once more makes a scientific dash at the mass, and with a few sidelong, desperate, lunging slicings, severs it completely in twain; so that while the short lower part is still fast, the long upper strip, called a blanket-piece, swings clear, and is all ready for lowering. The heavers forward now resume their song, and while the one tackle is peeling and hoisting a second strip from the whale, the other is slowly slackened away, and down goes the first strip through the main hatchway right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the blubber-room. Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling away the long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited serpents. And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing, the blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship straining, and all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the general friction.
一名参加的标枪手现在拿着一把名为登船剑的长而锋利的武器前进，他抓住机会，灵巧地在摇摆物的下部切出了一个相当大的洞。然后将第二个交替的大滑车的末端钩入该洞，以保持对鲸脂的抓住，为接下来的事情做好准备。于是，这位技艺高超的剑客，警告所有的手都远离，再次向群众发起科学的冲刺，并用几下侧身、绝望的刺刀，将其完全切成两半；这样，虽然较短的下部仍然很快，但较长的上部条带（称为毛毯片）会摆动干净，并准备好下降。前进的吊船现在恢复了他们的歌声，当一个滑车从鲸鱼身上剥离并吊起第二条带时，另一个慢慢地放松下来，第一条带向下穿过正下方的主舱口，进入一个没有家具的客厅，称为“鲸脂室。在这间暮色中的公寓里，各种各样灵活的手不断地卷起长毯子，仿佛它是一大堆活生生的编织蛇。工作就这样继续进行；两个滑车同时起升和下降；鲸鱼和起锚机都在起伏，起重船在唱歌，鲸脂室的绅士们盘旋着，大副们围着围巾，船用力，所有的手偶尔都咒骂着，以减轻一般的摩擦。

Chapter 68
第68章

The Blanket.
毯子。

I have given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, the skin of the whale. I have had controversies about it with experienced whalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore. My original opinion remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.
我对鲸鱼的皮肤这个颇为棘手的话题给予了不小的关注。我曾与海上经验丰富的捕鲸者和岸上博学的博物学家对此发生过争议。我原来的观点不变；但这只是一种意见。

The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale? Already you know what his blubber is. That blubber is something of the consistence of firm, close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and ranges from eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.
问题是，鲸鱼的皮肤是什么以及在哪里？你已经知道他的鲸脂是什么了。这种鲸脂有点像坚硬、细粒的牛肉，但更坚韧、更有弹性、更紧凑，厚度从八英寸或十英寸到十二英寸和十五英寸不等。

Now, however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature’s skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point of fact these are no arguments against such a presumption; because you cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from the whale’s body but that same blubber; and the outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that be but the skin? True, from the unmarred dead body of the whale, you may scrape off with your hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat resembling the thinnest shreds of isinglass, only it is almost as flexible and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it not only contracts and thickens, but becomes rather hard and brittle. I have several such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books. It is transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon the printed page, I have sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence. At any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles, as you may say. But what I am driving at here is this. That same infinitely thin, isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as the skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the skin of a new-born child. But no more of this.
现在，无论乍一看，谈论任何生物的皮肤都具有这种稠度和厚度似乎很荒谬，但事实上，这些并不能成为反对这种假设的论据。因为除了鲸脂之外，你无法从鲸鱼的身体中升起任何其他致密的包裹层；任何动物的最外层包裹层，如果相当致密，那除了皮肤还能是什么？确实，你可以用手从完好无损的鲸鱼尸体上刮下一种无限薄的透明物质，有点像最薄的鱼胶碎片，只不过它几乎像缎子一样柔韧和柔软；也就是说，在干燥之前，它不仅收缩和变厚，而且变得相当硬和脆。我有几个这样的干碎片，我用它们在我的鲸鱼书籍中做标记。正如我之前所说，它是透明的；当我把它写在纸上时，我有时会很高兴地认为它发挥了放大的影响力。无论如何，正如你可能会说的那样，通过鲸鱼自己的眼镜来了解鲸鱼是令人愉快的。但我在这里开车的是这个。我承认，这种无限薄的鱼胶物质覆盖了鲸鱼的整个身体，与其说是生物的皮肤，不如说是皮肤的皮肤；因为如果说巨鲸的正常皮肤比新生儿的皮肤更薄、更嫩，那就太荒谬了。但不再这样了。

Assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin, as in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one hundred barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity, or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only three fourths, and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hence be had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose mere integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten barrels to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters of the stuff of the whale’s skin.
假设鲸脂是鲸鱼的皮肤；然后，当这个皮肤，就像一个非常大的抹香鲸的情况一样，将产生一百桶油的大部分；而且，当考虑到，在数量上，或者更确切地说，在重量上，油在其表达状态下仅占皮毛的四分之三，而不是皮毛的全部物质；因此，我们可以对这个充满活力的物体的巨大程度产生一些想法，仅仅其外壳的一部分就产生了这样一个液体湖。以十桶为一吨计算，十吨的净重仅为鲸鱼皮的四分之三。

In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least among the many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick array, something like those in the finest Italian line engravings. But these marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved upon the body itself. Nor is this all. In some instances, to the quick, observant eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but afford the ground for far other delineations. These are hieroglyphical; that is, if you call those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids hieroglyphics, then that is the proper word to use in the present connexion. By my retentive memory of the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck with a plate representing the old Indian characters chiselled on the famous hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi. Like those mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable. This allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing. Besides all the other phenomena which the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not seldom displays the back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great part of the regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches, altogether of an irregular, random aspect. I should say that those New England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs—I should say, that those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular. It also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile contact with other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large, full-grown bulls of the species.
在生活中，抹香鲸的可见表面并不是他所呈现的众多奇迹中最不重要的一个。几乎无一例外的是，它到处都是倾斜交叉和重新交叉的无数直线标记，排列得很厚，就像意大利最精美的线条雕刻中的那些标记一样。但这些痕迹似乎并不是刻在上述的鱼胶物质上，而是透过它看到的，就好像它们刻在了身体本身上一样。这还不是全部。在某些情况下，对于敏锐、敏锐的眼睛来说，这些线性标记就像名副其实的雕刻一样，但却为其他描绘提供了基础。这些都是象形文字；也就是说，如果你称金字塔墙上那些神秘的密码为象形文字，那么在当前的关系中使用这个词才是正确的。由于我对抹香鲸身上的象形文字记忆犹新，我对一块刻在密西西比河上游岸边著名的象形文字栅栏上的代表古老印第安文字的盘子印象深刻。就像那些神秘的岩石一样，带有神秘标记的鲸鱼仍然无法辨认。对印度岩石的暗示让我想起了另一件事。除了抹香鲸外表所呈现的所有其他现象之外，它还经常展示背部，尤其是其侧翼，由于无数粗鲁的划痕，大部分规则的线性外观被抹去，完全是不规则的、随机的。方面。我应该说，新英格兰海岸上的那些岩石，阿加西想象中带有与巨大的漂浮冰山剧烈刮擦接触的痕迹——我应该说，这些岩石在这一点上一定与抹香鲸有一点相似。 在我看来，鲸鱼身上的这种划痕可能是由于与其他鲸鱼的敌意接触而造成的。因为我在该物种的大型、成年公牛身上最注意到它们。

A word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of the whale. It has already been said, that it is stript from him in long pieces, called blanket-pieces. Like most sea-terms, this one is very happy and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still better, an Indian poncho slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity. It is by reason of this cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to keep himself comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides. What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of the North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout? True, other fish are found exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it observed, are your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies are refrigerators; creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of an iceberg, as a traveller in winter would bask before an inn fire; whereas, like man, the whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze his blood, and he dies. How wonderful is it then—except after explanation—that this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is as indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be found at home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when seamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards, perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found glued in amber. But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a Borneo negro in summer.
关于鲸鱼的皮肤或鲸脂的问题，再多说一两句话。已经说过，它是从他身上剥下来的长片，称为毯片。和大多数海洋术语一样，这个术语非常快乐且意义重大。因为鲸鱼确实包裹在鲸脂里，就像包裹在真正的毯子或床罩里一样。或者，更好的是，一件印度雨披滑过他的头，绕过他的四肢。正是由于这种舒适的身体覆盖，鲸鱼才能在所有天气、所有海洋、时间和潮汐中保持舒适。比如说，在北方那些颤抖、冰冷的海洋中，如果没有舒适的外套，格陵兰鲸会变成什么样子？确实，在海珀北风水域中也发现了其他鱼类的异常活跃。但请注意，这些是冷血、无肺的鱼，它们的肚子就是冰箱。这些生物在冰山的背风处取暖，就像冬天的旅行者在旅馆的火前晒太阳一样；然而，和人类一样，鲸鱼也有肺和温热的血液。冻结他的血液，他就死了。那么，除了解释之外，这个伟大的怪物是多么奇妙，对它来说，肉体的温暖就像对人类一样不可或缺；它是一个巨大的怪物。他能在家里找到他，在北极水域里终生沉浸在嘴唇中，这是多么美妙的事啊！当海员落水时，几个月后有时会发现他们被垂直冻结在冰原的中心，就像发现一只苍蝇粘在琥珀中一样。但更令人惊讶的是，正如实验所证明的那样，极地鲸的血液在夏天比婆罗洲黑人的血液更温暖。

It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare virtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself after the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too, live in this world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter’s, and like the great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of thine own.
在我看来，在这里我们确实看到了罕见的强大的个人活力的美德，以及罕见的厚墙的美德，以及罕见的内部宽敞的美德。天啊！欣赏并模仿鲸鱼！你也能在冰天雪地中保持温暖吗？你也生活在这个世界上而不属于这个世界吗？赤道处凉爽；让你的血液保持在极地。就像圣彼得大教堂的巨大圆顶，就像那条巨大的鲸鱼，人类啊，请坚持住！四季都有你自己的温度。

But how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things! Of erections, how few are domed like St. Peter’s! of creatures, how few vast as the whale!
但教这些美好的东西是多么容易，又是多么无望啊！在勃起的建筑物中，像圣彼得大教堂那样呈圆顶状的有多少！在生物中，像鲸鱼这样巨大的生物是多么少啊！

Chapter 69
第69章

The Funeral.
葬礼。

Haul in the chains! Let the carcase go astern!
用铁链拖起来！让尸体往后走！

The vast tackles have now done their duty. The peeled white body of the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk. It is still colossal. Slowly it floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the whale. The vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment the murderous din. For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous sight is seen. Beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky, upon the fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite perspectives.
巨大的铲球现在已经完成了他们的职责。被斩首的鲸鱼被剥皮的白色身体闪闪发光，就像一座大理石坟墓；尽管颜色发生了变化，但它的体积并没有明显减少。它仍然是巨大的。慢慢地，它漂得越来越远，周围的海水被贪得无厌的鲨鱼撕裂和溅起水花，上面的空气中充满了贪婪的尖叫着的飞禽，它们的喙就像鲸鱼身上许多侮辱性的短剑。巨大的白色无头幻影离船越来越远，它漂浮的每一根棍子，似乎是方形的鲨鱼和立方体的家禽，都增强了凶残的喧嚣。在这艘几乎静止不动的船上，连续几个小时都可以看到可怕的景象。在万里无云、温和的蔚蓝天空下，在宜人的大海的美丽表面上，在欢乐的微风中，那巨大的死亡漂浮着，直到消失在无限的视野中。

There’s a most doleful and most mocking funeral! The sea-vultures all in pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black or speckled. In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral they most piously do pounce. Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! from which not the mightiest whale is free.
这是一场最悲伤、最嘲讽的葬礼！海秃鹫全都虔诚地哀悼，飞鲨全都一丝不苟地穿着黑色或有斑点的衣服。我想，在生活中，如果鲸鱼需要帮助的话，他们中很少有人愿意帮助他。但在他的葬礼宴会上，它们却虔诚地扑了过来。哦，地球上可怕的秃鹰行为！最强大的鲸鱼都无法摆脱它。

Nor is this the end. Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghost survives and hovers over it to scare. Espied by some timid man-of-war or blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance obscuring the swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it; straightway the whale’s unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in the log—SHOALS, ROCKS, AND BREAKERS HEREABOUTS: BEWARE! And for years afterwards, perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly sheep leap over a vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held. There’s your law of precedents; there’s your utility of traditions; there’s the story of your obstinate survival of old beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and now not even hovering in the air! There’s orthodoxy!
这还不是结束。尽管尸体已被亵渎，但一个复仇的鬼魂幸存下来，并盘旋在尸体上吓人。一些胆怯的军舰或笨手笨脚的发现船从远处发现了，当距离遮住了成群的鸟儿时，尽管如此，仍然可以看到白色的物体漂浮在阳光下，白色的浪花在它的上方高高地升起；鲸鱼的无害尸体立即被用颤抖的手指放在圆木上——这里有浅滩、岩石和碎浪：小心！或许，多年以后，船只都避开了这个地方。跳过它就像愚蠢的羊跳过真空一样，因为它们的领导者最初是在拿着一根棍子时跳到那里的。这就是你的先例法；这就是传统的效用；这是一个关于你顽固地坚持旧信念的故事，它从未在地球上扎根，现在甚至不在空中盘旋！有正统！

Thus, while in life the great whale’s body may have been a real terror to his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world.
因此，虽然巨鲸生前的身体可能对他的敌人来说是真正的恐惧，但在他死后，他的鬼魂对世界来说却变成了无力的恐慌。

Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend? There are other ghosts than the Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in them.
我的朋友，你相信有鬼吗？除了考克巷的鬼魂之外，还有其他鬼魂，也有比约翰逊医生更深层次的人相信它们。

Chapter 70
第70章

The Sphynx.
斯芬克斯。

It should not have been omitted that previous to completely stripping the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded. Now, the beheading of the Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon which experienced whale surgeons very much pride themselves: and not without reason.
不容忽视的是，在彻底剥离利维坦的身体之前，他被斩首了。现在，抹香鲸的斩首是一项科学解剖学壮举，经验丰富的鲸鱼外科医生对此感到非常自豪：这并非没有道理。

Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck; on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that very place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that the surgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening between him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in a discoloured, rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bear in mind, too, that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut many feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without so much as getting one single peep into the ever-contracting gash thus made, he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts, and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion into the skull. Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb’s boast, that he demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?
考虑一下鲸鱼没有什么可以被称为脖子的东西。相反，在他的头和身体似乎相连的地方，正是那个地方，是他最粗的部分。还要记住，外科医生必须从上方进行手术，他和受术者之间有大约八到十英尺的距离，而受术者几乎隐藏在变色、翻滚、时常汹涌澎湃的大海中。还要记住，在这些不幸的情况下，他必须在肉体上割下许多英尺深的伤口。以那种地下的方式，他必须巧妙地避开所有相邻的、被禁止的部分，并通过将其插入到骨中，在关键点上准确地将脊柱分开。颅骨。那么，您是否对斯塔布的吹嘘感到惊讶，他只需要十分钟就斩首了一头抹香鲸？

When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a cable till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small whale it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with a full grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale’s head embraces nearly one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a burden as that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as vain a thing as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers’ scales.
第一次被切断时，头部会掉到后面并用缆绳固定在那里，直到身体被剥离。完成后，如果它属于小鲸鱼，则会将其悬挂在甲板上以便故意处理。但是，对于成年的利维坦来说，这是不可能的。因为抹香鲸的头部几乎占据了其整个体积的三分之一，并且完全悬挂这样的负担，即使是捕鲸者的巨大铲车，这就像试图用珠宝商的天平称量荷兰谷仓一样徒劳。 。

The Pequod’s whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the head was hoisted against the ship’s side—about half way out of the sea, so that it might yet in great part be buoyed up by its native element. And there with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it, by reason of the enormous downward drag from the lower mast-head, and every yard-arm on that side projecting like a crane over the waves; there, that blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod’s waist like the giant Holofernes’s from the girdle of Judith.
裴阔德号鲸鱼被斩首，尸体被剥光，头被举在船舷上——大约离开海面一半，这样它的大部分可能会被其原生元素浮起。由于下桅杆头的巨大向下阻力，拉紧的船陡峭地向它倾斜，那一侧的每个帆桁臂都像起重机一样伸出在波浪上；在那里，那个滴着血的头挂在裴廓德号的腰上，就像朱迪思腰带上的巨人霍洛弗尼的头一样。

When this last task was accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went below to their dinner. Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but now deserted deck. An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow lotus, was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea.
当最后一项任务完成时，已经是中午了，水手们到下面去吃晚饭了。原本喧闹但现在空无一人的甲板上一片寂静。强烈的铜色平静，就像一朵普遍的黄莲花，正在海面上越来越多地展开其无声无息的叶子。

A short space elapsed, and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alone from his cabin. Taking a few turns on the quarter-deck, he paused to gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the main-chains he took Stubb’s long spade—still remaining there after the whale’s Decapitation—and striking it into the lower part of the half-suspended mass, placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so stood leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.
过了一会儿，亚哈独自一人从他的小屋里走出来，进入这片寂静之中。在尾甲板上转了几圈，他停下来凝视着舷侧，然后慢慢地进入主链，他拿起斯塔布的长铲——在鲸鱼被斩首后仍然留在那里——并将其击入半船的下部——悬挂着的物体，将它的另一端拄着拐杖放在一只手臂下，然后俯身站着，眼睛专注地盯着这个头。

It was a black and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so intense a calm, it seemed the Sphynx’s in the desert. ‘Speak, thou vast and venerable head,’ muttered Ahab, ‘which, though ungarnished with a beard, yet here and there lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head, and tell us the secret thing that is in thee. Of all divers, thou hast dived the deepest. That head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has moved amid this world’s foundations. Where unrecorded names and navies rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the drowned; there, in that awful water-land, there was thy most familiar home. Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast slept by many a sailor’s side, where sleepless mothers would give their lives to lay them down. Thou saw’st the locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to each other, when heaven seemed false to them. Thou saw’st the murdered mate when tossed by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the deeper midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on unharmed—while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that would have borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms. O head! thou hast seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one syllable is thine!’
那是一个黑色的、戴着兜帽的脑袋；悬在如此强烈的平静之中，仿佛是沙漠中的斯芬克斯。 “说吧，你这颗伟大而可敬的脑袋，”亚哈低声说道，“虽然没有胡须，但到处都长满了青苔，显得灰白。说话吧，强大的头脑，告诉我们你身上的秘密。在所有潜水员中，你潜得最深。现在，上面的太阳在其上闪闪发光，它已经在这个世界的基础上移动了。没有记录的名字和海军生锈，无数的希望和锚腐烂；在她凶残的控制下，这片护卫舰上的土地上压满了数以百万计的溺水者的白骨；在那里，在那片可怕的水域里，有你最熟悉的家。你去过钟声或潜水员从未去过的地方；我曾睡在许多水手的身边，那些失眠的母亲会献出自己的生命来安放他们。当你从燃烧的船上跳下时，你看到了锁住的恋人；他们心连心地沉入欢腾的波浪之下；他们彼此忠诚，而天堂对他们来说似乎是虚假的。当海盗从午夜甲板上扔下你时，你看到了被谋杀的大副；一连几个小时，他陷入了贪得无厌的深夜。谋杀他的凶手仍然安然无恙地继续航行——而迅雷不及掩耳之势的闪电使邻近的船颤抖着，这艘船本来可以张开渴望的双臂，载着一位正义的丈夫。头啊！你已经看得够多了，足以分裂行星并使亚伯拉罕成为异教徒，但没有一个音节是你的！

‘Sail ho!’ cried a triumphant voice from the main-mast-head.
“扬帆起航！”主桅顶传来胜利的声音。

‘Aye? Well, now, that’s cheering,’ cried Ahab, suddenly erecting himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow. ‘That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.—Where away?’
‘是吗？好吧，现在，这真是令人欢呼。”亚哈喊道，突然站了起来，整个雷雨云从他的额头上掠过。 “在这死一般的平静中发出的热烈的呼喊几乎可能会改变一个更好的人。——在哪里？”

‘Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze to us!
“右舷船头三点，长官，正在为我们带来微风！

‘Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way, and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man! how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not the smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in mind.’
‘越来越好，伙计。现在圣保罗会沿着那条路走来，为我的无风带来他的微风！大自然啊，人类的灵魂啊！你的类比是多么难以言喻啊！最小的原子并不是在物质上搅拌或生存，而是在心里有它狡猾的复制品。

Chapter 71
第71章

The Jeroboam’s Story.
耶罗波安的故事。

Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than the ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock.
手牵着手，船与风徐徐前行；但风来得比船快，很快，裴廓德号就开始摇晃。

By and by, through the glass the stranger’s boats and manned mast-heads proved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, and shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod could not hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see what response would be made.
渐渐地，透过玻璃，陌生人的船和有人操纵的桅杆证明她是一艘捕鲸船。但由于她距离上风方向太远，并且正在掠过，显然是在前往其他地面，所以“裴廓德号”不可能指望到达她。因此设置信号是为了看看会做出什么反应。

Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the ships of the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whale commanders are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at considerable distances and with no small facility.
这里要说的是，就像海军陆战队的船只一样，美国鲸鱼舰队的每艘船只都有一个私人信号；所有信号都收集在一本附有相应船只名称的书上，每位船长都配有该书。因此，鲸鱼指挥官能够在海洋上相互识别，即使距离相当远并且需要不小的设施。

The Pequod’s signal was at last responded to by the stranger’s setting her own; which proved the ship to be the Jeroboam of Nantucket. Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under the Pequod’s lee, and lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the side-ladder was being rigged by Starbuck’s order to accommodate the visiting captain, the stranger in question waved his hand from his boat’s stern in token of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary. It turned out that the Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her captain, was fearful of infecting the Pequod’s company. For, though himself and boat’s crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half a rifle-shot off, and an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing between; yet conscientiously adhering to the timid quarantine of the land, he peremptorily refused to come into direct contact with the Pequod.
裴廓德号的信号最终得到了陌生人的响应，她也设置了自己的信号。这证明这艘船就是楠塔基特岛的耶罗波安号。她调整好帆桁，向下冲去，在“裴阔德”号的背风处横排，放下一艘小船。很快，它就临近了。但是，当星巴克的命令正在安装侧梯以容纳来访的船长时，这位陌生人在船尾挥了挥手，表示这一行动完全没有必要。原来，耶罗波安号船上感染了恶性流行病，船长梅休担心传染给裴阔德号的船员。因为，尽管他和船员们仍然没有受到污染，尽管他的船已经被步枪射击了一半，并且其间有纯净的海洋和空气翻滚流动；但他恪守对土地的谨慎隔离，断然拒绝与白廓德号直接接触。

But this did by no means prevent all communications. Preserving an interval of some few yards between itself and the ship, the Jeroboam’s boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to the Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this time it blew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at times by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed some way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings again. Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not without still another interruption of a very different sort.
但这并没有阻止所有的交流。耶罗波安号的船与船之间保持了几码的间隔，当她在海上艰难地航行时，偶尔使用桨，设法与裴阔德号保持平行（因为这时风势非常强劲），她的主中帆后退；尽管事实上，有时突然出现的大浪，船会被推到前面一段距离。但很快她就​​会熟练地再次回到正确的方向。尽管受到这种情况以及时不时发生的其他类似的干扰，两方之间的谈话仍持续进行。但每隔一段时间，就会有另一种截然不同的干扰。

Pulling an oar in the Jeroboam’s boat, was a man of a singular appearance, even in that wild whaling life where individual notabilities make up all totalities. He was a small, short, youngish man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and wearing redundant yellow hair. A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a faded walnut tinge enveloped him; the overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on his wrists. A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
在耶罗波安的船上划桨的是一个外表奇特的人，即使在个体名人构成整体的野生捕鲸生活中也是如此。他是个身材矮小的年轻人，脸上布满雀斑，留着多余的黄头发。他身上穿着一件褪色胡桃木色的长裙剪裁风格的外套。重叠的袖子挽在手腕上。他的眼中流露出深深的、坚定的、狂热的谵妄。

So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had exclaimed—‘That’s he! that’s he!—the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho’s company told us of!’ Stubb here alluded to a strange story told of the Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho. According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that the scaramouch in question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the Jeroboam. His story was this:
当这个人物第一次被描述时，斯塔布惊呼道：“就是他！”就是他！——镇浩公司告诉我们的那个长袍大盗！”斯塔布在这里提到了一个关于耶罗波安号和她的船员中的某个人的奇怪故事，不久前，当白廓德号说镇浩号时。根据这一记载以及随后了解到的情况，这位圣甲虫似乎比耶罗波安家族中的几乎所有人都获得了惊人的优势。他的故事是这样的：

He had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a trap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he carried in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange, apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket, where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady, common-sense exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate for the Jeroboam’s whaling voyage. They engaged him; but straightway upon the ship’s getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in a freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded the captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and vicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which he declared these things;—the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united to invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness. Moreover, they were afraid of him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship, especially as he refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous captain would fain have been rid of him; but apprised that that individual’s intention was to land him in the first convenient port, the archangel forthwith opened all his seals and vials—devoting the ship and all hands to unconditional perdition, in case this intention was carried out. So strongly did he work upon his disciples among the crew, that at last in a body they went to the captain and told him if Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain. He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan. Nor would they permit Gabriel to be any way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass that Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship. The consequence of all this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand than ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole command; nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure. The sailors, mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him; in obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to a god. Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are true. Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless power of deceiving and bedevilling so many others. But it is time to return to the Pequod.
他最初是在疯狂的涅斯基尤纳震教徒社团中长大的，在那里他曾是一位伟大的先知。在他们破裂的秘密会议中，有几次通过活板门从天而降，宣布迅速打开他背心口袋里的第七个小瓶；但是，其中应该装有鸦片酊，而不是火药。一种奇怪的、使徒般的突发奇想抓住了他，他离开涅斯基尤纳前往楠塔基特岛，在那里，他带着疯狂特有的狡猾，呈现出稳定、常识性的外表，并提出自己作为耶罗波安号捕鲸航行的新手候选人。他们与他交战；但船一离开陆地，他的疯狂就突然爆发了。他宣称自己是大天使加百列，并命令船长跳下船。他发表了宣言，自称是海洋岛屿的拯救者和全大洋洲的总督。他宣布这些事情时所表现出的坚定不移的真诚；——他不眠的、兴奋的想象力的黑暗、大胆的发挥，以及真正的谵妄中所有超自然的恐惧，结合在一起，将这个加百列投入到大多数无知船员的心中，以一种神圣的气氛。更何况，他们还怕他。然而，由于这样一个人在船上没有多大实际用处，特别是他拒绝工作，除非他愿意，所以怀疑的船长很想摆脱他；但当得知那个人的意图是将他降落在第一个方便的港口时，大天使立即打开了他所有的封印和小瓶——如果这个意图得以实现，那么他的船和所有的人都会无条件地毁灭。 他如此强烈地对船员中的门徒进行工作，以至于最后他们集体来到船长那里，告诉他如果加百列被从船上送走，他们中的一个人都不会留下来。因此，他被迫放弃了自己的计划。他们也不允许加布里埃尔受到任何形式的虐待，无论他说什么或做什么。这样一来，加百列就拥有了船上的完全自由。这一切的结果是，大天使很少或根本不关心船长和副手。自从疫情爆发以来，他的态度比以往任何时候都更高。宣布他所称的瘟疫是他一人指挥的；除非他乐意，否则也不应将其搁置。水手们大多是可怜虫，他们畏缩不前，其中一些人在他面前阿谀奉承。服从他的指示，有时向他表示个人的敬意，就像敬拜神一样。这些事情可能看起来不可思议，但事实上却是这样。但是，无论多么奇妙，它们都是真实的。狂热分子的历史并不比狂热分子本身的无边自欺更引人注目，因为他具有欺骗和困扰许多人的无边力量。但现在是返回裴廓德号的时候了。

‘I fear not thy epidemic, man,’ said Ahab from the bulwarks, to Captain Mayhew, who stood in the boat’s stern; ‘come on board.’
“我并不担心你的流行病，伙计，”亚哈在舷墙上对站在船尾的梅休船长说。 “上船吧。”

But now Gabriel started to his feet.
但现在加百列站了起来。

‘Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious! Beware of the horrible plague!’
‘想想，想想发烧，发黄，胆汁！当心可怕的瘟疫！

‘Gabriel! Gabriel!’ cried Captain Mayhew; ‘thou must either—‘ But that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seethings drowned all speech.
‘加百列！加布里埃尔！”梅休船长喊道。 “你必须——”但就在那一瞬间，一股猛烈的波浪把船远远地击向前方，沸腾的声音淹没了所有的言语。

‘Hast thou seen the White Whale?’ demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted back.
“你看到白鲸了吗？”当船漂回来时，亚哈问道。

‘Think, think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of the horrible tail!’
“想想，想想你的捕鲸船，被烧焦了，沉没了！小心可怕的尾巴！

‘I tell thee again, Gabriel, that—‘ But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while a succession of riotous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasional caprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it. Meantime, the hoisted sperm whale’s head jogged about very violently, and Gabriel was seen eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangel nature seemed to warrant.
“我再告诉你一次，加百列，——”但是船又像被恶魔拖着一样向前猛冲。一时间谁也没有说话，一连串汹涌的海浪滚滚而过，由于大海偶尔的反复无常，海浪只是翻滚，而不是起伏。与此同时，被吊起的抹香鲸的头猛烈地摇晃着，加百列看着它的眼神比他大天使的本性似乎更令人担忧。

When this interlude was over, Captain Mayhew began a dark story concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without frequent interruptions from Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and the crazy sea that seemed leagued with him.
这段插曲结束后，梅休船长开始讲述关于莫比·迪克的黑暗故事；然而，每当提到他的名字时，加百列就会频繁打断，而疯狂的大海似乎与他结盟。

It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking a whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence of Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the White Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his gibbering insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, some year or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey, the chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him; and the captain himself being not unwilling to let him have the opportunity, despite all the archangel’s denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading five men to man his boat. With them he pushed off; and, after much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last succeeded in getting one iron fast. Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his divinity. Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his boat’s bow, and with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo! a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its quick, fanning motion, temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen. Next instant, the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily into the air, and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea at the distance of about fifty yards. Not a chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any oarsman’s head; but the mate for ever sank.
耶罗波安号似乎离家不久，在与一艘捕鲸船交谈时，她的人民可靠地得知了莫比·迪克的存在，以及他所造成的破坏。加百列贪婪地吸取着这些情报，郑重警告船长不要攻击白鲸号，以免被发现。在他胡言乱语的疯狂中，宣称白鲸不亚于震神之神的化身；震教徒接受圣经。但一两年后，当人们从桅杆顶上清晰地看到莫比·迪克时，大副梅西就满怀热情地想要见到他；船长本人也并非不愿意让他有这个机会，尽管大天使一再谴责和警告，梅西还是成功说服了五个人来操纵他的船。他和他们一起出发了。经过多次疲惫的拉扯，以及多次危险的、不成功的尝试，他终于成功地把一根铁杆固定住了。与此同时，加百列登上了主皇家桅杆顶，疯狂地挥舞着一只手臂，向那些亵渎他神性的攻击者发出了厄运即将降临的预言。现在，当大副梅西站在他的船头，用他部落所有不计后果的能量向鲸鱼发泄他狂野的呼喊，并试图为他那平衡的长矛争取一个公平的机会时，瞧！一道宽阔的白色影子从海上升起；通过其快速的扇动动作，暂时让桨手们喘不过气来。下一瞬间，那只倒霉的大副，充满了狂暴的生命力，整个人被抛到空中，在下降过程中划出一道长长的弧线，在大约五十码处坠入海中。船的任何碎片都没有受到伤害，桨手的头发也没有受到伤害。但大副却永远沉没了。

It is well to parenthesize here, that of the fatal accidents in the Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any. Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated; oftener the boat’s bow is knocked off, or the thigh-board, in which the headsman stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. But strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more instances than one, when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of violence is discernible; the man being stark dead.
在这里值得一提的是，抹香鲸渔业中发生的致命事故，这种事故可能几乎与任何事故一样频繁。有时，除了被消灭的人之外，没有任何东西受到伤害；更常见的是，船头被撞掉，或者刽子手站立的大腿板被从原来的位置上撕下来并伴随着尸体。但最奇怪的是，在不止一次的情况下，当尸体被找到时，看不到任何暴力痕迹；那人已经死了。

The whole calamity, with the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried from the ship. Raising a piercing shriek—‘The vial! the vial!’ Gabriel called off the terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the whale. This terrible event clothed the archangel with added influence; because his credulous disciples believed that he had specifically fore-announced it, instead of only making a general prophecy, which any one might have done, and so have chanced to hit one of many marks in the wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terror to the ship.
整个灾难，连同梅西的倒下，都从船上清楚地描述了出来。发出一声刺耳的尖叫——“瓶子！”加布里埃尔叫停了惊恐万分的船员们，不再继续捕鲸了。这一可怕的事件给大天使增添了更大的影响力。因为他轻信的弟子们相信他是专门预先宣布的，而不是只是做出一般性的预言（任何人都可能这样做），因此有机会在允许的范围内达到许多目标之一。他成了船上无名的恐怖分子。

Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To which Ahab answered—‘Aye.’ Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started to his feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with downward pointed finger—‘Think, think of the blasphemer—dead, and down there!—beware of the blasphemer’s end!’
梅休结束了他的叙述，亚哈向他提出了这样的问题，这位陌生的船长忍不住询问他是否打算猎杀白鲸，如果有机会的话。亚哈回答道：“是的。”加百列立刻又站起来，瞪着老人，手指朝下，激烈地喊道：“想想，想想那个亵渎者——死了，就在下面！” ——谨防亵渎者的结局！

Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew, ‘Captain, I have just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for one of thy officers, if I mistake not. Starbuck, look over the bag.’
亚哈冷漠地转过身去。然后对梅休说：“队长，我刚刚想起了我的信袋；如果我没记错的话，这是一封写给你的一位军官的信。星巴克，看看袋子。”

Every whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships, whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans. Thus, most letters never reach their mark; and many are only received after attaining an age of two or three years or more.
每艘捕鲸船都会为不同的船只发出大量的信件，这些信件能否递送到收件人手中，完全取决于在四大洋中遇到这些信件的机会。因此，大多数信件永远无法到达目的地。许多人是在两岁、三岁或以上才被接收的。

Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand. It was sorely tumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in consequence of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin. Of such a letter, Death himself might well have been the post-boy.
很快，星巴克回来了，手里拿着一封信。由于被存放在机舱的黑暗储物柜中，它被摔得很厉害，潮湿，上面覆盖着暗淡、有斑点的绿色霉菌。对于这样一封信，死亡本人很可能就是邮差。

‘Can’st not read it?’ cried Ahab. ‘Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it’s but a dim scrawl;—what’s this?’ As he was studying it out, Starbuck took a long cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, to insert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, without its coming any closer to the ship.
“看不懂吗？”亚哈喊道。 ‘给我吧，伙计。是啊，是啊，这只是一个模糊的潦草字迹；——这是什么？”当他研究它的时候，斯塔巴克拿起一根长的铲子杆，用他的小刀轻轻地把末端切开，把信插在那里，这样，把它交给船，不要让它离船更近。

Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, ‘Mr. Har—yes, Mr. Harry—(a woman’s pinny hand,—the man’s wife, I’ll wager)—Aye—Mr. Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam;—why it’s Macey, and he’s dead!’
与此同时，亚哈拿着信，低声说道：“先生。”哈——是的，哈利先生——（一只女人纤细的手，——我敢打赌，是男人的妻子）——是的——哈利先生。哈利·梅西，杰罗波安号船；——为什么是梅西，而且他死了！

‘Poor fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife,’ sighed Mayhew; ‘but let me have it.’
'可怜的家伙！可怜的家伙！和他的妻子，”梅休叹息道。 “但是让我来吧。”

‘Nay, keep it thyself,’ cried Gabriel to Ahab; ‘thou art soon going that way.’
“不，你自己留着吧，”加百列对亚哈喊道。 “你很快就会走那条路。”

‘Curses throttle thee!’ yelled Ahab. ‘Captain Mayhew, stand by now to receive it”; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck’s hands, he caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the boat. But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing; the boat drifted a little towards the ship’s stern; so that, as if by magic, the letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel’s eager hand. He clutched it in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on it, sent it thus loaded back into the ship. It fell at Ahab’s feet. Then Gabriel shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars, and in that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.
“诅咒让你窒息！”亚哈喊道。 “梅休船长，现在就站起来领取”；他从斯塔巴克手中接过那封致命的信，用杆子的缝隙抓住它，然后把它伸向船。但当他这样做时，桨手们满怀期待地停止了划桨。船向船尾漂了一点。于是，就像变魔术一样，这封信突然随着加百列急切的手一起移动。他立刻抓住了它，抓住了船刀，将上面的信刺穿了，然后把它装回了船上。它落在亚哈脚边。然后加布里埃尔尖叫着让他的战友们让开桨，就这样，叛乱的船迅速离开了裴阔德号。

As, after this interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket of the whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild affair.
在这段插曲之后，海员们继续在鲸鱼的外套上工作，许多奇怪的事情都与这起野生事件有关。

Chapter 72
第72章

The Monkey-Rope.
猴绳。

In the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale, there is much running backwards and forwards among the crew. Now hands are wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there. There is no staying in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has to be done everywhere. It is much the same with him who endeavors the description of the scene. We must now retrace our way a little. It was mentioned that upon first breaking ground in the whale’s back, the blubber-hook was inserted into the original hole there cut by the spades of the mates. But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook get fixed in that hole? It was inserted there by my particular friend Queequeg, whose duty it was, as harpooneer, to descend upon the monster’s back for the special purpose referred to. But in very many cases, circumstances require that the harpooneer shall remain on the whale till the whole tensing or stripping operation is concluded. The whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged, excepting the immediate parts operated upon. So down there, some ten feet below the level of the deck, the poor harpooneer flounders about, half on the whale and half in the water, as the vast mass revolves like a tread-mill beneath him. On the occasion in question, Queequeg figured in the Highland costume—a shirt and socks—in which to my eyes, at least, he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one had a better chance to observe him, as will presently be seen.
在介入和照顾鲸鱼的混乱过程中，船员们需要来来回回地跑来跑去。现在这里需要人手，然后那里又需要人手。没有任何一个地方可以停留；因为所有事情都必须同时在各地完成。努力描述场景的他也是如此。我们现在必须稍微原路返回。据说，当鲸鱼的背部第一次破土时，鲸脂钩就被插入到原来由配偶的铲子切出的洞中。但是，像同一个钩子一样笨拙而沉重的物体是如何固定在那个洞里的呢？它是由我特别的朋友奎奎格插在那里的，作为鱼叉手，奎奎格的职责是为了所提到的特殊目的降落在怪物的背上。但在很多情况下，情况要求鱼叉手应留在鲸鱼上，直到整个拉紧或剥离作业结束。从观察结果来看，鲸鱼几乎完全被淹没在水中，除了直接受到操作的部分之外。因此，在距离甲板大约十英尺的地方，可怜的鱼叉手在鲸鱼身上挣扎，一半在水中，而巨大的物体在他脚下像跑步机一样旋转。在这个场合，魁魁格穿着高地服装——衬衫和袜子——至少在我看来，他在这件衣服上显得拥有不寻常的优势。没有人有更好的机会来观察他，正如我们很快就会看到的那样。

Being the savage’s bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oar in his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to attend upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon the dead whale’s back. You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by a long cord. Just so, from the ship’s steep side, did I hold Queequeg down there in the sea, by what is technically called in the fishery a monkey-rope, attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round his waist.
作为野蛮人的弓箭手，也就是在船上拉动船头桨的人（从前数第二个），我很乐意照顾他，同时在死鲸的背上艰难地爬行。你见过意大利管风琴男孩用一根长绳子牵着一只跳舞的猿猴。就这样，我从船陡峭的一侧，用渔业中所谓的猴绳，将魁魁格绑在海里，绳子系在一条结实的帆布带上，绑在他的腰上。

It was a humorously perilous business for both of us. For, before we proceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at both ends; fast to Queequeg’s broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow leather one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time, were wedded; and should poor Queequeg sink to rise no more, then both usage and honour demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should drag me down in his wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature united us. Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother; nor could I any way get rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond entailed.
这对我们俩来说都是一件幽默而危险的事情。因为，在我们进一步讨论之前，必须先说一下，猴绳的两端都很牢固。快扣上奎魁格的宽帆布腰带，快扣上我的窄皮带。因此，无论好坏，我们两个暂时结婚了。如果可怜的奎魁格沉没再站起来，那么习惯和荣誉都要求我不要割断绳子，而应该把我拖到他身后。那么，一条细长的连体连字将我们联系在一起。魁魁格是我形影不离的双胞胎兄弟。我也无法摆脱大麻债券所带来的危险责任。

So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then, that while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to perceive that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock company of two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and that another’s mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited disaster and death. Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of interregnum in Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have so gross an injustice. And yet still further pondering—while I jerked him now and then from between the whale and ship, which would threaten to jam him—still further pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of mine was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in most cases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with a plurality of other mortals. If your banker breaks, you snap; if your apothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True, you may say that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these and the multitudinous other evil chances of life. But handle Queequeg’s monkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I came very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, do what I would, I only had the management of one end of it.*
我当时对自己的处境的认识是如此强烈和形而上学，以至于当我认真地观察他的动作时，我似乎清楚地意识到我自己的个性现在已合并在一家由两家公司组成的股份公司中；我的自由意志受到了致命的伤害；另一个人的错误或不幸可能会让无辜的我陷入不应有的灾难和死亡。因此，我看到普罗维登斯处于某种空位期。因为它的公平性从来不会造成如此严重的不公正。然而，更进一步的思考——当我时不时地从鲸鱼和船之间猛拉他时，这可能会卡住他——再进一步的思考，我说，我看到我的这种情况正是每个呼吸的凡人的情况;只是，在大多数情况下，他以某种方式与许多其他凡人有着这种暹罗联系。如果你的银行家破产了，你就会崩溃；如果你的药剂师错误地将毒药送给你，你就会死。确实，你可能会说，只要格外小心，你就有可能逃脱这些以及生活中众多其他邪恶的机会。但像我一样小心翼翼地处理魁魁格的猴绳，有时他猛拉它，我差点就滑落下去了。我也不可能忘记，做我想做的事，我只能管理它的一端。*

*The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. This improvement upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man than Stubb, in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest possible guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his monkey-rope holder.
*所有捕鲸船都配备猴绳；但只有在裴廓德，猴子和他的持有者才被绑在一起。这种对最初用法的改进是由斯塔布这样的人提出的，目的是为处于危险之中的标枪手提供最有力的保证，保证他的猴绳持有者的忠诚和警惕。

I have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between the whale and the ship—where he would occasionally fall, from the incessant rolling and swaying of both. But this was not the only jamming jeopardy he was exposed to. Unappalled by the massacre made upon them during the night, the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the before pent blood which began to flow from the carcass—the rabid creatures swarmed round it like bees in a beehive.
我曾暗示过，我经常把可怜的魁魁格从鲸鱼和船之间拉出来——他偶尔会因为两者不断的滚动和摇摆而跌倒。但这并不是他面临的唯一干扰危险。鲨鱼对夜间发生的屠杀并不感到震惊，现在，它们被尸体中开始流出的先前压抑的血液所吸引，更加强烈地诱惑着它们——这些狂暴的生物像蜂巢里的蜜蜂一样聚集在它周围。

And right in among those sharks was Queequeg; who often pushed them aside with his floundering feet. A thing altogether incredible were it not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwise miscellaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man.
魁魁格就在这些鲨鱼之中。他常常用挣扎的双脚把他们推到一边。令人难以置信的是，如果不是被死鲸这样的猎物所吸引，这种杂七杂八的肉食性鲨鱼很少会碰人。

Nevertheless, it may well be believed that since they have such a ravenous finger in the pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp to them. Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and then jerked the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seemed a peculiarly ferocious shark—he was provided with still another protection. Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego and Daggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keen whale-spades, wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could reach. This procedure of theirs, to be sure, was very disinterested and benevolent of them. They meant Queequeg’s best happiness, I admit; but in their hasty zeal to befriend him, and from the circumstance that both he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood-muddled water, those indiscreet spades of theirs would come nearer amputating a leg than a tall. But poor Queequeg, I suppose, straining and gasping there with that great iron hook—poor Queequeg, I suppose, only prayed to his Yojo, and gave up his life into the hands of his gods.
然而，人们很可能相信，既然他们在这块馅饼上有如此贪婪的手指，那么对他们采取敏锐的态度被认为是明智的。因此，除了我时不时地用猴子绳子把这个可怜的家伙从离一条看起来特别凶猛的鲨鱼的胃太近的地方猛拉起来之外，他还得到了另一种保护。塔什特戈和达古悬挂在其中一个舞台的一侧，不断地在他的头顶上挥舞着几把锋利的鲸铲，用它们屠杀了尽可能多的鲨鱼。他们的这一做法，确实是非常无私、仁慈的。我承认，它们意味着魁魁格最大的幸福。但由于他们急于与他交朋友，而且由于他和鲨鱼有时都半隐藏在血腥的水中，他们那些不谨慎的黑桃更像是截断一条腿，而不是截断一条腿。但可怜的魁魁格，我想，正用那个巨大的铁钩使劲喘气——我想，可怜的魁魁格，只是向他的尤乔祈祷，并将自己的生命交到了他的众神的手中。

Well, well, my dear comrade and twin-brother, thought I, as I drew in and then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea—what matters it, after all? Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men in this whaling world? That unsounded ocean you gasp in, is Life; those sharks, your foes; those spades, your friends; and what between sharks and spades you are in a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.
好吧，好吧，我亲爱的同志和双胞胎兄弟，当我把绳子拉近，然后随着海浪的每一次波涛而松开绳子时，我想——这又有什么关系呢？你不就是我们这个捕鲸世界里每个人的珍贵形象吗？你呼吸的那片寂静的海洋，就是生命；那些鲨鱼，你的敌人；那些黑桃，你的朋友；可怜的小伙子，在鲨鱼和黑桃之间，你正处于悲伤的困境和危险之中。

But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now, as with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, consolatory glance hands him—what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, ye gods! hands him a cup of tepid ginger and water!
但勇气！奎奎格，有美好的欢呼等待着你。现在，就像嘴唇发青、眼睛布满血丝一样，疲惫的野蛮人终于爬上了铁链，浑身湿淋淋地站在一边，不由自主地颤抖着。管家走上前，用仁慈、安慰的目光递给他——什么？来点热干邑白兰地吗？不！诸神啊，把手交给他吧！递给他一杯温热的姜和水！

‘Ginger? Do I smell ginger?’ suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near. ‘Yes, this must be ginger,’ peering into the as yet untasted cup. Then standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the astonished steward slowly saying, ‘Ginger? ginger? and will you have the goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of ginger? Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to kindle a fire in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!—what the devil is ginger?—sea-coal? firewood?—lucifer matches?—tinder?—gunpowder?—what the devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor Queequeg here.’
'姜？我闻到姜味了吗？”斯塔布走近，怀疑地问道。 “是的，这一定是生姜，”凝视着尚未品尝的杯子。然后他一脸不可置信地站着，平静地走向惊讶的管家，缓缓道：“姜？”姜？面团小子先生，您能告诉我生姜的好处在哪里吗？姜！面团小子，你用生姜来给这个瑟瑟发抖的食人者生火吗？姜！——姜到底是什么东西？——海煤？柴火？——路西法火柴？——火种？——火药？——姜到底是什么东西，我说，你把这个杯子给我们可怜的奎魁格。

‘There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this business,’ he suddenly added, now approaching Starbuck, who had just come from forward. ‘Will you look at that kannakin, sir; smell of it, if you please.’ Then watching the mate’s countenance, he added, ‘The steward, Mr. Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap to Queequeg, there, this instant off the whale. Is the steward an apothecary, sir? and may I ask whether this is the sort of bitters by which he blows back the life into a half-drowned man?’
“这件事上有一些禁酒协会的秘密运动，”他突然补充道，现在正在接近刚刚从前面走来的星巴克。 “您能看一下那个卡纳金吗，先生；闻闻它的味道，如果你愿意的话。’然后看着大副的脸，他补充道，‘管家斯塔巴克先生，有脸把甘汞和墨西哥胡椒递给奎奎格，就在鲸鱼刚被捕走的那一刻。先生，管家是药剂师吗？我可以问一下，他是否就是用这种苦涩来让一个半淹死的人重获新生的？

‘I trust not,’ said Starbuck, ‘it is poor stuff enough.’
“我相信不会，”星巴克说，“这已经够糟糕的了。”

‘Aye, aye, steward,’ cried Stubb, ‘we’ll teach you to drug it harpooneer; none of your apothecary’s medicine here; you want to poison us, do ye? You have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder us all, and pocket the proceeds, do ye?’
“是啊，是啊，乘务员，”斯塔布喊道，“我们会教你给鱼叉手下药；”这里没有你药剂师的药；你想毒害我们，是吗？你给我们买了生命保险，想谋杀我们所有人，然后把收益装进自己的口袋，是吗？

‘It was not me,’ cried Dough-Boy, ‘it was Aunt Charity that brought the ginger on board; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits, but only this ginger-jub—so she called it.’
“不是我，”面团小子喊道，“是慈善阿姨把姜带上船的；”并嘱咐我永远不要给标枪手们任何烈酒，只能给她这种姜酒——她是这么称呼它的。

‘Ginger-jub! you gingerly rascal! take that! and run along with ye to the lockers, and get something better. I hope I do no wrong, Mr. Starbuck. It is the captain’s orders—grog for the harpooneer on a whale.’
‘姜朱布！你这个小心翼翼的流氓！拿着它！和你们一起跑到储物柜去，拿一些更好的东西。我希望我没有做错，斯塔巴克先生。这是船长的命令——为鲸鱼上的标枪手喝烈酒。”

‘Enough,’ replied Starbuck, ‘only don’t hit him again, but—’
“够了，”斯塔巴克回答道，“只要别再打他了，但是——”

‘Oh, I never hurt when I hit, except when I hit a whale or something of that sort; and this fellow’s a weazel. What were you about saying, sir?’
“噢，我击中时从来不会受伤，除非我击中鲸鱼之类的东西；这家伙是个黄鼠狼。先生，你刚才想说什么？

‘Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself.’
“只有这样：跟他一起下去，自己得到你想要的东西。”

When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and a sort of tea-caddy in the other. The first contained strong spirits, and was handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity’s gift, and that was freely given to the waves.
当斯塔布再次出现时，他一手拿着一个黑色的烧瓶，另一只手拿着一个茶罐。第一个里面有烈酒，被交给了奎魁格。第二个是慈善阿姨的礼物，是无偿送给海浪的。

Chapter 73
第73章

Stubb and Flask Kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk Over Him.
斯塔布和烧瓶杀死了一头露脊鲸；然后和他谈谈。

It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale’s prodigious head hanging to the Pequod’s side. But we must let it continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it. For the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the head, is to pray heaven the tackles may hold.
必须记住，一直以来，抹香鲸巨大的头都挂在“裴阔德”号的一侧。但我们必须让它继续挂在那里一段时间，直到我们有机会去处理它。目前还有其他紧迫的事情要做，我们现在能为头部做的最好的事情就是祈祷上天铲球能坚持下去。

Now, during the past night and forenoon, the Pequod had gradually drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional patches of yellow brit, gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species of the Leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking anywhere near. And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of those inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to cruise for them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near the Crozetts without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale had been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the announcement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day, if opportunity offered.
现在，在过去的夜晚和上午，裴阔德号逐渐漂入了大海，大海中偶尔出现一些黄色的英国人，这表明露脊鲸附近有不寻常的迹象，露脊鲸是一种利维坦，很少有人认为它在附近。这个特殊的时间潜伏在附近的任何地方。尽管所有人都普遍鄙视捕获这些低等生物；虽然裴阔德号根本没有被委托为他们巡航，尽管她在克罗泽特夫妇附近经过了许多他们，但没有放下一艘船；然而，现在一头抹香鲸被带到一边并被斩首，令所有人惊讶的是，宣布如果有机会的话，当天应该捕获一头露脊鲸。

Nor was this long wanting. Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two boats, Stubb’s and Flask’s, were detached in pursuit. Pulling further and further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at the mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of tumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or both the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in plain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the towing whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at first it seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in a maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from view, as if diving under the keel. ‘Cut, cut!’ was the cry from the ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being brought with a deadly dash against the vessel’s side. But having plenty of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all their might so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the struggle was intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened line in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the contending strain threatened to take them under. But it was only a few feet advance they sought to gain. And they stuck to it till they did gain it; when instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the keel, as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, suddenly rose to view under her bows, snapping and quivering; and so flinging off its drippings, that the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water, while the whale beyond also rose to sight, and once more the boats were free to fly. But the fagged whale abated his speed, and blindly altering his course, went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after him, so that they performed a complete circuit.
这也不是长久以来的愿望。下风处可以看到高高的喷口；斯塔布的和弗拉斯克的两艘船分开追击。距离越来越远，桅顶上的人们终于几乎看不到他们了。但突然在远处，他们看到了一大堆汹涌的白水，不久之后从高处传来消息，其中一艘或两艘船必须速度很快。过了一段时间，小船就清晰可见，正被拖鲸拖向大船。怪物离船体如此之近，乍一看他似乎是怀有恶意。但他突然在漩涡中沉入水中，距木板三杆以内，完全消失在视野中，仿佛潜入龙骨之下。 “切，切！”这是从船上向小艇发出的喊叫声，有那么一瞬间，小艇似乎就要被致命地撞到船舷上。但桶里还有足够的绳子，而且鲸鱼的叫声也不是很快，他们就放出足够的绳子，同时用尽全力拉，以便能领先于船。几分钟内，斗争非常激烈。因为当他们仍然向一个方向放松收紧的绳索，并且仍然向另一个方向划桨时，竞争的张力威胁着将他们淹没。但他们想要的只是前进几英尺。他们坚持不懈，直到获得为止；立刻，人们感到一阵快速的震动，像闪电一样沿着龙骨传开，因为拉紧的绳子在船下刮擦，突然升到她的船头下，啪嗒啪嗒地颤抖着；然后，它的水滴就这样被甩掉，水滴像碎玻璃一样落在水面上，而远处的鲸鱼也升了起来，小船再次自由飞翔。 但那头秃鲸却放慢了速度，盲目地改变了航向，绕过船尾，拖着后面的两艘船，绕了一圈。

Meantime, they hauled more and more upon their lines, till close flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered Flask with lance for lance; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went, while the multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale’s body, rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking at every new gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that poured from the smitten rock.
与此同时，他们越来越多地拉近自己的阵线，直到从两侧逼近斯塔布，斯塔布以矛对矛回应弗拉斯克。就这样，战斗围绕着佩阔德号展开，而先前在抹香鲸身体周围游动的大量鲨鱼，则冲向溢出的鲜血，饥渴地喝着每一个新的伤口，就像热切的以色列人在新的伤口处所做的那样。从破碎的岩石中喷涌而出的喷泉。

At last his spout grew thick, and with a frightful roll and vomit, he turned upon his back a corpse.
最后，他的喷口变得粗大，伴随着可怕的翻滚和呕吐，他仰面躺着，成了一具尸体。

While the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes, and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing, some conversation ensued between them.
当两位刽子手忙着为他的尾翼制作快速绳索，并以其他方式让群众做好拖曳的准备时，他们之间发生了一些谈话。

‘I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard,’ said Stubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so ignoble a leviathan.
“我不知道这位老人想要这块臭猪油做什么，”斯塔布说道，一想到要和如此卑鄙的利维坦打交道，他不免有些厌恶。

‘Wants with it?’ said Flask, coiling some spare line in the boat’s bow, ‘did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm Whale’s head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right Whale’s on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never afterwards capsize?’
“想要吗？”弗拉斯克一边说，一边在船头卷起一些备用绳子，“你难道没听说过，这艘船曾经有一只抹香鲸的头悬挂在她的右舷，同时一只露脊鲸也站在它的右舷。”左舷；斯塔布，你有没有听说过那艘船以后永远不会倾覆？

‘Why not?
'为什么不？

‘I don’t know, but I heard that gamboge ghost of a Fedallah saying so, and he seems to know all about ships’ charms. But I sometimes think he’ll charm the ship to no good at last. I don’t half like that chap, Stubb. Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved into a snake’s head, Stubb?’
“我不知道，但我听那个费达拉的藤黄鬼魂这么说，他似乎对船只的魅力了如指掌。但我有时认为他最终不会给这艘船带来任何好处。我不太喜欢那个家伙，斯塔布。你有没有注意到他的象牙是如何雕刻在蛇头上的，斯塔布？

‘Sink him! I never look at him at all; but if ever I get a chance of a dark night, and he standing hard by the bulwarks, and no one by; look down there, Flask’—pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of both hands—‘Aye, will I! Flask, I take that Fedallah to be the devil in disguise. Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been stowed away on board ship? He’s the devil, I say. The reason why you don’t see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries it coiled away in his pocket, I guess. Blast him! now that I think of it, he’s always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots.’
‘把他沉下去！我从来不看他一眼；但如果有一天我有机会在一个漆黑的夜晚，他就坚守在舷墙旁，旁边无人；往下看，弗拉斯克”——双手以一种奇特的动作指向大海——“是的，我会的！ Flask，我认为那个 Fedallah 是伪装的魔鬼。你相信他被藏在船上的那个公鸡和公牛的故事吗？我说他是魔鬼。你之所以看不到他的尾巴，是因为他把尾巴卷起来，看不见；我猜他把它卷在口袋里。炸死他！现在我想起来了，他总是想把奥克姆塞进他靴子的脚趾里。

‘He sleeps in his boots, don’t he? He hasn’t got any hammock; but I’ve seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging.’
“他穿着靴子睡觉，不是吗？”他没有吊床；他没有吊床。但我见过他在成卷的索具中整夜躺着。”

‘No doubt, and it’s because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do ye see, in the eye of the rigging.’
“毫无疑问，这是因为他那条被诅咒的尾巴；他把它卷起来，你看到了吗，在索具的孔眼里。

‘What’s the old man have so much to do with him for?’
“老夫跟他有什么关系？”

‘Striking up a swap or a bargain, I suppose.’
“我想，是为了达成交换或讨价还价。”

‘Bargain?—about what?’
“讨价还价？——讨价还价什么？”

‘Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and the devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and then he’ll surrender Moby Dick.’
‘为什么，你们看到了吗，老人对那条白鲸一心一意，那里的魔鬼正试图围攻他，让他交换他的银表，或者他的灵魂，或者诸如此类的东西，然后然后他就会交出莫比迪克。

‘Pooh! Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?’
'呸！斯塔布，你在嬉戏；费达拉怎么能这么做呢？

‘I don’t know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked one, I tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the old flag-ship once, switching his tail about devilish easy and gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted. The devil, switching his hoofs, up and says, ‘I want John.’ ‘What for?’ says the old governor. ‘What business is that of yours,’ says the devil, getting mad,—‘I want to use him.’ ‘Take him,’ says the governor—and by the Lord, Flask, if the devil didn’t give John the Asiatic cholera before he got through with him, I’ll eat this whale in one mouthful. But look sharp—ain’t you all ready there? Well, then, pull ahead, and let’s get the whale alongside.’
“我不知道，弗拉斯克，但我告诉你们，魔鬼是一个好奇的家伙，而且是一个邪恶的家伙。哎呀，他们说有一次他闲逛进了那艘旧旗舰，把尾巴换成了恶魔般的轻松和绅士风度，询问老总督是否在家。好吧，他在家，问魔鬼想要什么。魔鬼换了个蹄子，站起来说：“我想要约翰。”“为什么？”老总督说。 “关你什么事，”魔鬼生气地说，“我想利用他。”“把他带走，”总督说，上帝发誓，弗拉斯克，如果魔鬼没有给约翰亚洲霍乱还没跟他闹完，我就一口吃掉这条鲸鱼。但请注意——你们都准备好了吗？好吧，那么，继续前进，让我们把鲸鱼拉到旁边。”

‘I think I remember some such story as you were telling,’ said Flask, when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden towards the ship, ‘but I can’t remember where.’
“我想我记得你讲过的一些这样的故事，”当两艘船终于带着负担向那艘船缓慢前进时，弗拉斯克说道，“但我不记得在哪里。”

‘Three Spaniards? Adventures of those three bloody-minded soladoes? Did ye read it there, Flask? I guess ye did?’
“三个西班牙人？那三个该死的索拉多的冒险？你读过那里吗，弗拉斯克？我想你做到了？

‘No: never saw such a book; heard of it, though. But now, tell me, Stubb, do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was the same you say is now on board the Pequod?’
“不：从来没有见过这样的书；不过听说过。但是现在，告诉我，斯塔布，你认为你刚才所说的那个魔鬼，就是你所说的现在在裴廓德号上的那个魔鬼吗？

‘Am I the same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn’t the devil live for ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead? Did you ever see any parson a wearing mourning for the devil? And if the devil has a latch-key to get into the admiral’s cabin, don’t you suppose he can crawl into a porthole? Tell me that, Mr. Flask?’
“我是杀死这头鲸鱼的那个人吗？魔鬼不是永远活着吗？谁听说过魔鬼死了？你见过哪个牧师穿着为魔鬼哀悼的衣服吗？如果魔鬼有一把钥匙可以进入海军上将的小屋，你不认为他可以爬进舷窗吗？告诉我吧，弗拉斯克先生？

‘How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?’
“斯塔布，你猜费达拉多大了？”

‘Do you see that mainmast there?’ pointing to the ship; ‘well, that’s the figure one; now take all the hoops in the Pequod’s hold, and string along in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that wouldn’t begin to be Fedallah’s age. Nor all the coopers in creation couldn’t show hoops enough to make oughts enough.’
“你看到那里的主桅了吗？”指着那艘船； ‘好吧，这就是图一；现在，拿起“裴阔德号”船舱中的所有环圈，并用那根桅杆串成一排，因为应该，你明白吗？好吧，那还不是费达拉的年龄。并非所有的制桶工人都无法展示足够多的篮球来制造足够的东西。

‘But see here, Stubb, I thought you a little boasted just now, that you meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good chance. Now, if he’s so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he is going to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard—tell me that?
“但是，斯塔布，我觉得你刚才有点自吹自擂，如果你有一个好机会，你打算给费达拉一次海上抛掷。现在，如果他已经和你的那些圈子一样老了，如果他能永远活着，那么把他扔到海里有什么好处——告诉我？

‘Give him a good ducking, anyhow.’
“无论如何，让他好好躲避一下。”

‘But he’d crawl back.’
“但他会爬回来。”

‘Duck him again; and keep ducking him.’
‘再躲开他；并继续躲避他。

‘Suppose he should take it into his head to duck you, though—yes, and drown you—what then?’
“假设他想躲开你——是的，然后淹死你——然后呢？”

‘I should like to see him try it; I’d give him such a pair of black eyes that he wouldn’t dare to show his face in the admiral’s cabin again for a long while, let alone down in the orlop there, where he lives, and hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much. Damn the devil, Flask; so you suppose I’m afraid of the devil? Who’s afraid of him, except the old governor who daresn’t catch him and put him in double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about kidnapping people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the devil kidnapped, he’d roast for him? There’s a governor!’
“我希望看到他尝试一下；我会给他一双黑眼睛，让他很长一段时间都不敢再在海军上将的舱室里露面，更不用说在他居住的奥洛普号上，以及附近的上层甲板上了。他偷偷摸摸的太多了。该死的魔鬼，弗拉斯克；所以你认为我害怕魔鬼吗？谁怕他，除了老总督，老总督不敢抓住他，把他当做应得的双打，却让他去绑架人。是啊，还和他签了契约，所有被魔鬼绑架的人，他都会烤给他吃？有一位州长！

‘Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?’
“你认为费达拉想绑架亚哈船长吗？”

‘Do I suppose it? You’ll know it before long, Flask. But I am going now to keep a sharp look-out on him; and if I see anything very suspicious going on, I’ll just take him by the nape of his neck, and say—Look here, Beelzebub, you don’t do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord I’ll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan, and give him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will come short off at the stump—do you see; and then, I rather guess when he finds himself docked in that queer fashion, he’ll sneak off without the poor satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs.’
‘我猜是吗？你很快就会知道的，Flask。但我现在要密切注意他；如果我看到任何非常可疑的事情发生，我就会抓住他的颈背，然后说——听着，别西卜，你别这么做；别这么做。如果他大惊小怪，上帝发誓，我会从他的口袋里抓起他的尾巴，把它带到绞盘上，然后用力扭动他，让他的尾巴在树桩处断掉——做你看;然后，我猜当他发现自己以这种奇怪的方式停靠时，他会偷偷溜走，而不会感到尾巴夹在两腿之间的那种可怜的满足感。

‘And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?’
“斯塔布，你打算怎么处理这条尾巴？”

‘Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;—what else?’
‘用它做什么？回家后把它卖掉换一根牛鞭；——还有什么？

‘Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?’
“现在，斯塔布，你一直说的话是认真的吗？”

‘Mean or not mean, here we are at the ship.’
“无论刻薄与否，我们都在船上了。”

The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side, where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for securing him.
船只在这里停泊，将鲸鱼拖到左舷，那里已经准备好了锚链和其他必需品来固定它。

‘Didn’t I tell you so?’ said Flask; ‘yes, you’ll soon see this right whale’s head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti’s.’
“我不是告诉过你了吗？”弗拉斯克说。 “是的，你很快就会看到这头露脊鲸的头抬起来，对面就是帕尔玛切蒂鲸的头。”

In good time, Flask’s saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeply leaned over towards the sperm whale’s head, now, by the counterpoise of both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may well believe. So, when on one side you hoist in Locke’s head, you go over that way; but now, on the other side, hoist in Kant’s and you come back again; but in very poor plight. Thus, some minds for ever keep trimming boat. Oh, ye foolish! throw all these thunder-heads overboard, and then you will float light and right.
后来，弗拉斯克的说法被证明是正确的。和之前一样，“裴阔德”号急剧地向抹香鲸的头部倾斜，现在，在两个头部的平衡作用下，她恢复了平稳的龙骨；尽管非常紧张，你还是可以相信的。所以，当你在一侧提升洛克的头脑时，你就会越过那条路；但现在，在另一边，举起康德的，你又回来了；但处境非常贫困。因此，有些人永远在修整船。哦，你们这些傻瓜！把所有这些雷头扔到海里，然后你就会轻快地漂浮在正确的位置。

In disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the ship, the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case of a sperm whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off whole, but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed and hoisted on deck, with all the well known black bone attached to what is called the crown-piece. But nothing like this, in the present case, had been done. The carcases of both whales had dropped astern; and the head-laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair of overburdening panniers.
在处置露脊鲸的尸体时，当其尸体被带到船边时，通常会进行与抹香鲸的情况相同的初步程序；只是在后一种情况下，头部被整个切掉，而在前​​一种情况下，嘴唇和舌头被分别移除并吊在甲板上，所有众所周知的黑骨都附着在所谓的王冠上。但在目前的情况下，类似的事情还没有发生。两条鲸鱼的尸体都掉到了船尾。这艘满载头颅的船有点像一头驮着一对不堪重负的驮篮的骡子。

Meantime, Fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale’s head, and ever and anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his own hand. And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee occupied his shadow; while, if the Parsee’s shadow was there at all it seemed only to blend with, and lengthen Ahab’s. As the crew toiled on, Laplandish speculations were bandied among them, concerning all these passing things.
与此同时，费达拉平静地注视着露脊鲸的头部，时不时地从那里深深的皱纹转向自己手中的皱纹。亚哈恰巧站着，帕西人占据了他的影子。然而，即使帕西人的影子确实存在，它似乎也只是与亚哈的影子融为一体，并拉长了他的影子。当船员们继续辛苦工作时，他们对所有这些过去的事情进行了拉普兰式的猜测。

Chapter 74
第74章

The Sperm Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.
抹香鲸的头部——对比视图。

Here, now, are two great whales, laying their heads together; let us join them, and lay together our own.
现在，这里有两条巨大的鲸鱼，头靠在一起。让我们加入他们，并共同打造我们自己的。

Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale are by far the most noteworthy. They are the only whales regularly hunted by man. To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of all the known varieties of the whale. As the external difference between them is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this moment hanging from the Pequod’s side; and as we may freely go from one to the other, by merely stepping across the deck:—where, I should like to know, will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology than here?
在巨兽的大目中，抹香鲸和露脊鲸是迄今为止最值得注意的。它们是唯一经常被人类猎杀的鲸鱼。对于楠塔基特人来说，它们展示了所有已知鲸鱼品种的两个极端。因为他们之间的外部差异主要是在他们的头脑中观察到的；这一刻就像每个人的头一样悬挂在“裴廓德”号的舷侧；因为我们可以自由地从一个地方走到另一个地方，只需跨过甲板：——我想知道，你在哪里可以获得比这里更好的机会来研究实用的鲸类学？

In the first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these heads. Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale’s which the Right Whale’s sadly lacks. There is more character in the Sperm Whale’s head. As you behold it, you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point of pervading dignity. In the present instance, too, this dignity is heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the summit, giving token of advanced age and large experience. In short, he is what the fishermen technically call a ‘grey-headed whale.’
首先，你会对这些头像之间的总体对比感到震惊。凭良心来说，两者都足够庞大；但抹香鲸存在某种数学对称性，而露脊鲸则遗憾地缺乏这种对称性。抹香鲸的头脑中有更多的特征。当你看到它时，你会不自觉地向他屈服于他的巨大优越感，就弥漫着的尊严而言。在目前的情况下，这种尊严也因他在山顶上的胡椒和盐的颜色而得到增强，这象征着高龄和丰富的经验。简而言之，他就是渔民专业上所说的“灰头鲸”。

Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads—namely, the two most important organs, the eye and the ear. Far back on the side of the head, and low down, near the angle of either whale’s jaw, if you narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you would fancy to be a young colt’s eye; so out of all proportion is it to the magnitude of the head.
现在让我们注意这些头部中最不相似的部分，即两个最重要的器官，眼睛和耳朵。在头部侧面的远处，低处，靠近鲸鱼下巴的角度，如果你仔细寻找，你最后会看到一只没有睫毛的眼睛，你会认为这是一匹年轻小马驹的眼睛；所以它与头部的大小不成比例。

Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale’s eyes, it is plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no more than he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale’s eyes corresponds to that of a man’s ears; and you may fancy, for yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects through your ears. You would find that you could only command some thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight; and about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest foe were walking straight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not be able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you from behind. In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at the same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes the front of a man—what, indeed, but his eyes?
现在，从鲸鱼眼睛的这种特殊的侧向位置来看，很明显，他永远看不到正前方的物体，就像他看不到正后方的物体一样。总之，鲸鱼眼睛的位置相当于人耳朵的位置；你自己可能会想象，如果你通过耳朵从侧面观察物体，你会怎么样。你会发现你只能控制比直线视线提前约三十度的视野；后面还有大约三十个人。如果你最凶恶的敌人在光天化日之下举起匕首径直朝你走来，你将看不到他，就像他从后面偷袭你一样。总而言之，可以说，你有两个背影；但同时，也有两个正面（侧面）：一个人的正面是由什么构成的——事实上，除了他的眼睛之外，还有什么？

Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to produce one picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of the whale’s eyes, effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of solid head, which towers between them like a great mountain separating two lakes in valleys; this, of course, must wholly separate the impressions which each independent organ imparts. The whale, therefore, must see one distinct picture on this side, and another distinct picture on that side; while all between must be profound darkness and nothingness to him. Man may, in effect, be said to look out on the world from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window. But with the whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two distinct windows, but sadly impairing the view. This peculiarity of the whale’s eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.
此外，在我现在能想到的大多数其他动物中，眼睛的植入是在不知不觉中融合它们的视觉能力，以便在大脑中产生一幅而不是两幅图片；鲸鱼眼睛的特殊位置，实际上被许多立方英尺的实心头部分开，头部高耸在它们之间，就像一座大山将山谷中的两个湖泊分开；当然，这必须完全区分每个独立机构所给予的印象。因此，鲸鱼必须在这一侧看到一幅清晰的画面，在另一侧看到另一幅清晰的画面；而两者之间的一切对他来说一定是深深的黑暗和虚无。实际上，可以说，人是从窗户上有两扇连在一起的窗框的岗亭里向外看的。但对于鲸鱼来说，这两个窗框是分开插入的，形成两个不同的窗户，但遗憾的是损害了视野。鲸鱼眼睛的这种特殊性是渔业中始终要牢记的事情。并在随后的一些场景中被读者记住。

A curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning this visual matter as touching the Leviathan. But I must be content with a hint. So long as a man’s eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing is involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing whatever objects are before him. Nevertheless, any one’s experience will teach him, that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of things at one glance, it is quite impossible for him, attentively, and completely, to examine any two things—however large or however small—at one and the same instant of time; never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other. But if you now come to separate these two objects, and surround each by a circle of profound darkness; then, in order to see one of them, in such a manner as to bring your mind to bear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your contemporary consciousness. How is it, then, with the whale? True, both his eyes, in themselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man’s, that he can at the same moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one side of him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction? If he can, then is it as marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able simultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinct problems in Euclid. Nor, strictly investigated, is there any incongruity in this comparison.
关于触摸利维坦这一视觉问题，可能会引发一个好奇且最令人费解的问题。但我必须满足于一个提示。只要人的眼睛在光中睁开，看的行为就是不自觉的；也就是说，他会情不自禁地机械地看到面前的任何物体。然而，任何人的经验都会告诉他，虽然他可以一视同仁地一视同仁，但他却不可能同时专注地、彻底地审视任何两件事——无论大小。以及同一时刻；如果他们并排躺着并互相碰触也没关系。但如果你现在将这两个物体分开，并用一圈深深的黑暗包围它们；然后，为了以一种让你的思想接受其中一个的方式来看待其中一个，另一个将被完全排除在你当代的意识之外。那么，鲸鱼的情况如何呢？确实，他的两只眼睛本身必须同时行动；但他的大脑是否比人类的大脑更全面、更综合、更微妙，以至于他可以在同一时刻仔细检查两个不同的前景，一个在他的一侧，另一个在完全相反的方向？如果他能做到，那么他就是一件了不起的事情，就好像一个人能够同时论证欧几里得中两个不同问题一样。经过严格调查，这种比较也不存在任何不一致之处。

It may be but an idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the extraordinary vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when beset by three or four boats; the timidity and liability to queer frights, so common to such whales; I think that all this indirectly proceeds from the helpless perplexity of volition, in which their divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision must involve them.
这也许只是一种闲散的心血来潮，但在我看来，一些鲸鱼在被三四艘船围困时，会表现出异常的摇摆不定；这类鲸鱼很常见的胆怯和容易受到奇怪的恐惧的感觉；我认为这一切都间接地源于意志的无助的困惑，其中必然涉及他们分裂的、截然相反的视觉力量。

But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye. If you are an entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two heads for hours, and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so wondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. With respect to their ears, this important difference is to be observed between the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former has an external opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered over with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without.
但鲸鱼的耳朵和眼睛一样充满好奇。如果你对他们的种族完全陌生，你可能会花几个小时寻找这两个头，却永远不会发现那个器官。耳朵没有任何外部叶子；而且你几乎无法将羽毛笔插入孔中，它是如此的微小。它位于眼睛后面一点。就耳朵而言，抹香鲸和右抹香鲸之间存在着这一重要差异。前者的耳朵有一个外部开口，而后者的耳朵则完全均匀地覆盖着一层膜，从外面看是很难察觉的。

Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear which is smaller than a hare’s? But if his eyes were broad as the lens of Herschel’s great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of hearing? Not at all.—Why then do you try to ‘enlarge’ your mind? Subtilize it.
像鲸鱼这样巨大的生物，竟然用这么小的眼睛看世界，用比兔子还小的耳朵听到雷声，这难道不奇怪吗？但如果他的眼睛像赫歇尔大望远镜的镜片一样宽阔；他的耳朵像大教堂的门廊一样宽广；这会让他的视力变得更长，或者听力变得更敏锐吗？完全不是。——那你为什么要试图‘扩大’你的思维呢？精化它。

Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant over the sperm whale’s head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not that the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we might descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But let us hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are. What a really beautiful and chaste-looking mouth! from floor to ceiling, lined, or rather papered with a glistening white membrane, glossy as bridal satins.
现在让我们用手边的任何杠杆和蒸汽机，倾斜抹香鲸的头部，使其底部朝上；然后，乘梯子登上山顶，一睹山口的风采；如果不是尸体现在与它完全分离，我们可能会带着灯笼下降到他胃里巨大的肯塔基猛犸洞里。但让我们咬紧牙关，看看我们现在所处的位置。真是一张美丽而纯洁的嘴啊！从地板到天花板，都衬有一层闪闪发光的白色薄膜，或者更确切地说是贴着一层纸，光滑得像新娘的缎子。

But come out now, and look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems like the long narrow lid of an immense snuff-box, with the hinge at one end, instead of one side. If you pry it up, so as to get it overhead, and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a terrific portcullis; and such, alas! it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom these spikes fall with impaling force. But far more terrible is it to behold, when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky whale, floating there suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet long, hanging straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world like a ship’s jib-boom. This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out of sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his jaw have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a reproach to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon him.
但现在出来，看看这个不祥的下颌，它看起来就像一个巨大鼻烟盒的狭长盖子，铰链位于一端，而不是一侧。如果你把它撬起来，把它举过头顶，露出它的一排排牙齿，它看起来就像是一个很棒的闸门；诸如此类，唉！对许多渔业界的可怜人来说，这些尖刺以刺穿的力量落在他们身上。但更可怕的是，当你深入海中时，你会看到一条闷闷不乐的鲸鱼悬浮在那里，它的下巴巨大，大约十五英尺长，与身体成直角，垂直垂下。世界就像船的三角帆。这条鲸鱼并没有死；它还没有死。他只是灰心丧气；或许是心情不好；疑病症;他如此仰卧，以至于他下巴的铰链都放松了，让他陷入了那种笨拙的困境，这对他的整个部落来说都是一种耻辱，毫无疑问，他们肯定会诅咒他下巴紧锁。

In most cases this lower jaw—being easily unhinged by a practised artist—is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles, including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to riding-whips.
在大多数情况下，这个下颌——很容易被熟练的艺术家松开——被分离并吊在甲板上，目的是拔出象牙牙齿，并提供坚硬的白色鲸骨，渔民用它来制作各种奇怪的物品，包括手杖、伞柄和马鞭把手。

With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it were an anchor; and when the proper time comes—some few days after the other work—Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists, are set to drawing teeth. With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances the gums; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being rigged from aloft, they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag stumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands. There are generally forty-two teeth in all; in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled after our artificial fashion. The jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and piled away like joists for building houses.
用一台又长又累的起重机，将下颚拖到船上，就好像它是一个锚一样。当适当的时间到来时——其他工作几天后——奎奎格、达古和塔什特戈都是有成就的牙医，开始拔牙。奎奎格用一把锋利的铲子刺破牙龈；然后，下巴被绑在环形螺栓上，从高处安装滑车，它们就会拔出这些牙齿，就像密歇根牛从野生林地里拖出老橡树桩一样。一般共有四十二颗牙齿；老鲸鱼，虽然很破旧，但尚未腐烂；也没有填充我们人造的时尚。随后，颚板被锯成平板，并像建造房屋的托梁一样堆放起来。

Chapter 75
第75章

The Right Whale’s Head—Contrasted View.
露脊鲸的头部——对比视图。

Crossing the deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale’s head.
穿过甲板，现在让我们仔细看看露脊鲸的头部。

As in general shape the noble Sperm Whale’s head may be compared to a Roman war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded); so, at a broad view, the Right Whale’s head bears a rather inelegant resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe. Two hundred years ago an old Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a shoemaker’s last. And in this same last or shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with the swarming brood, might very comfortably be lodged, she and all her progeny.
就一般形状而言，高贵的抹香鲸的头部可以与罗马战车相比较（尤其是在前面，它是圆形的）；因此，从广阔的视野来看，露脊鲸的头部与一只巨大的马趾鞋有一种相当不优雅的相似之处。 200 年前，一位荷兰老航海者将其形状比作鞋匠鞋楦的形状。在同一个鞋楦或鞋子里，童话故事中的老妇人和蜂拥而至的孩子们，她和她所有的后代，都可以非常舒适地居住。

But as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different aspects, according to your point of view. If you stand on its summit and look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole head for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in its sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange, crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass—this green, barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the ‘crown,’ and the Southern fishers the ‘bonnet’ of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes solely on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak, with a bird’s nest in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch those live crabs that nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost sure to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the technical term ‘crown’ also bestowed upon it; in which case you will take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a diademed king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together for him in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is a very sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging lower lip! what a huge sulk and pout is there! a sulk and pout, by carpenter’s measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep; a sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.
但当你越来越接近这个伟大的头脑时，它开始根据你的观点呈现出不同的方面。如果你站在它的顶端，看着这两个F形的喷口，你就会把整个头部当作一把巨大的低音提琴，而这些气孔，就是它共鸣板上的孔。然后，再一次，如果你把目光集中在这堆东西顶部的这个奇怪的、有冠的、梳子状的结壳上——这个绿色的、长满藤壶的东西，格陵兰人称之为“王冠”，南方渔民称之为“帽子”。露脊鲸；如果你的眼睛只盯着这个，你就会把它的头当作一棵巨大橡树的树干，在它的胯部里有一个鸟巢。无论如何，当你看到那些栖息在这顶帽子上的活螃蟹时，你几乎肯定会想到这样的想法；除非，事实上，你的幻想已经被赋予它的技术术语“皇冠”所固定；在这种情况下，你会很感兴趣地思考这个强大的怪物实际上是一位戴着王冠的海洋之王，他的绿色王冠是以这种奇妙的方式为他组装的。但如果这条鲸鱼是国王，他就是一个看起来非常阴沉的家伙，可以为王冠增光添彩。看看那下垂的下唇！多么生闷气和噘嘴啊！根据木匠的测量，它长约二十英尺，深约五英尺；生气和噘嘴会给你带来大约 500 加仑的油甚至更多。

A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped. The fissure is about a foot across. Probably the mother during an important interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes caused the beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold, we now slide into the mouth. Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should take this to be the inside of an Indian wigwam. Good Lord! is this the road that Jonah went? The roof is about twelve feet high, and runs to a pretty sharp angle, as if there were a regular ridge-pole there; while these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us with those wondrous, half vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whalebone, say three hundred on a side, which depending from the upper part of the head or crown bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily mentioned. The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres, through which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose intricacies he retains the small fish, when openmouthed he goes through the seas of brit in feeding time. In the central blinds of bone, as they stand in their natural order, there are certain curious marks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate the creature’s age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings. Though the certainty of this criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of analogical probability. At any rate, if we yield to it, we must grant a far greater age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable.
现在，非常遗憾的是，这只不幸的鲸鱼竟然是兔唇的。裂缝宽约一英尺。母亲可能在一个重要的时期沿着秘鲁海岸航行，当时地震导致海滩裂开。越过这个嘴唇，就像越过光滑的门槛一样，我们现在滑进嘴里。老实说，如果我在麦基诺的话，我应该把这里当作印度棚屋的内部。主啊！这是约拿所走的路吗？屋顶大约有十二英尺高，呈一个相当锐利的角度，好像那里有一根规则的屋脊。而这些有肋骨、拱形、毛茸茸的侧面，向我们展示了那些奇妙的、半垂直的、弯刀形的鲸骨板条，据说每侧有三百个，它们从头部或冠骨的上部垂下，形成那些百叶窗，其他地方已经粗略地提到过。这些骨头的边缘镶满了毛茸茸的纤维，露脊鲸通过这些纤维过滤水，并在其错综复杂的结构中保留小鱼，当它张开嘴时，它会在进食时穿过英国的海洋。在骨头的中央百叶窗中，当它们按照自然顺序站立时，有一些奇怪的标记、曲线、凹陷和山脊，一些捕鲸者可以通过这些标记来计算该生物的年龄，就像通过圆环计算橡树的年龄一样。尽管这个标准的确定性还远不能证明，但它具有类比概率的味道。无论如何，如果我们屈服于这一点，我们必须给予露脊鲸比乍一看合理的年龄大得多的年龄。

In old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies concerning these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous ‘whiskers’ inside of the whale’s mouth;* another, ‘hogs’ bristles”; a third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language: ‘There are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of his upper CHOP, which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth.’
在过去，人们似乎普遍对这些百叶窗抱有最奇怪的幻想。普查斯的一位航海者称它们为鲸鱼嘴内奇妙的“胡须”；*另一个人称其为“猪鬃”；哈克卢特的第三位老先生使用了以下优雅的语言：“他的上部 CHOP 的每一侧都长有大约 250 鳍，这些鳍在他嘴的两侧拱在他的舌头上。”

*This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or rather a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw. Sometimes these tufts impart a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn countenance.
*这提醒我们，露脊鲸确实有一种胡须，或者更确切地说是小胡子，由下颌外端上部的一些分散的白色毛发组成。有时，这些毛簇会给他原本庄重的面容带来一种相当强盗的表情。

As every one knows, these same ‘hogs’ bristles,’ ‘fins,’ ‘whiskers,’ ‘blinds,’ or whatever you please, furnish to the ladies their busks and other stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, the demand has long been on the decline. It was in Queen Anne’s time that the bone was in its glory, the farthingale being then all the fashion. And as those ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of the whale, as you may say; even so, in a shower, with the like thoughtlessness, do we nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a tent spread over the same bone.
众所周知，这些同样的“猪鬃”、“鳍”、“胡须”、“百叶窗”或任何你喜欢的东西，为女士们提供了她们的巴斯克和其他僵硬的装置。但在这一点上，需求长期以来一直在下降。在安妮女王时代，骨头正处于鼎盛时期，法丁盖尔当时非常流行。正如那些古老的贵妇们欢快地走来走去，尽管是在鲸鱼的嘴里，正如你可能会说的那样；即便如此，在淋浴时，我们现在也同样不假思索地在同样的下巴下飞行以寻求保护；伞就像一个帐篷，覆盖在同一根骨头上。

But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing in the Right Whale’s mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all these colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not think you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its thousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest Turkey—the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the mouth. It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting it on deck. This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that amount of oil.
但现在暂时忘记百叶窗和胡须，站在右鲸的嘴里，重新看看你的周围。看到所有这些骨制柱廊如此有条不紊地分布在周围，您是否不会认为自己正置身于伟大的哈勒姆管风琴内部，凝视着它的数千个管子？对于器官的地毯，我们有一块最柔软的土耳其地毯——舌头，可以说是粘在嘴底上。它又肥又嫩，在甲板上吊起来时很容易撕成碎片。这种特殊的舌头现在就在我们面前；乍一看，我应该说这是一个六桶酒；也就是说，它会产生大约同样数量的石油。

Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started with—that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely different heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale’s there is no great well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale’s. Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a tongue. Again, the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only one.
说到这里，你一定已经清楚地看到了我开头所说的真相——抹香鲸和露脊鲸有几乎完全不同的头。总而言之：露脊鲸体内没有精子的大井；根本没有象牙；不像抹香鲸那样长而细长的下颌骨。抹香鲸也没有这种骨头百叶窗。没有巨大的下唇；几乎没有任何舌头。同样，露脊鲸有两个外部喷水孔，而抹香鲸只有一个。

Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will not be very long in following.
现在，最后一次看看这些令人尊敬的戴着兜帽的头颅吧，趁他们还躺在一起的时候；因为一个人很快就会沉入大海，不被记录下来；另一个不会很长时间跟随。

Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale’s there? It is the same he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem now faded away. I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie-like placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark the other head’s expression. See that amazing lower lip, pressed by accident against the vessel’s side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw. Does not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in facing death? This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years.
你能捕捉到抹香鲸在那里的表情吗？他死时也是这样，只是额头上一些较长的皱纹现在似乎消失了。我认为他宽阔的额头充满了草原般的平静，源于一种对死亡的思辨性冷漠。但请注意另一个头的表情。看看那令人惊奇的下唇，意外地压在容器的侧面，以便牢牢地拥抱下巴。难道这整个脑袋似乎都在诉说着面对死亡的巨大实际决心吗？我认为这只露脊鲸是斯多葛派的。抹香鲸，一位柏拉图主义者，他可能在晚年研究过斯宾诺莎。

Chapter 76
第76章

The Battering-Ram.
攻城槌。

Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale’s head, I would have you, as a sensible physiologist, simply—particularly remark its front aspect, in all its compacted collectedness. I would have you investigate it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some unexaggerated, intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may be lodged there. Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily settle this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of the most appalling, but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be found in all recorded history.
在暂时离开抹香鲸的头部之前，我希望你，作为一个明智的生理学家，简单地——特别注意它的正面，在它所有紧凑的集合中。我希望你现在就对它进行调查，唯一的目的是对那里可能存在的攻城锤力量做出一些不夸张的、明智的估计。这里有一个要点；因为你要么必须自己满意地解决这件事，要么永远对最令人震惊的事件之一保持异教徒的态度，但并非不那么真实的事件，也许在所有有记载的历史中都可以找到。

You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale, the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the water; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth were entirely under your chin. Moreover you observe that the whale has no external nose; and that what nose he has—his spout hole—is on the top of his head; you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides of his head, nearly one third of his entire length from the front. Wherefore, you must now have perceived that the front of the Sperm Whale’s head is a dead, blind wall, without a single organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever. Furthermore, you are now to consider that only in the extreme, lower, backward sloping part of the front of the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone; and not till you get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial development. So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one wad. Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of the substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy. In some previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the body of the whale, as the rind wraps an orange. Just so with the head; but with this difference: about the head this envelope, though not so thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimable by any man who has not handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds from it. It is as though the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved with horses’ hoofs. I do not think that any sensation lurks in it.
您会发现，在抹香鲸的普通游泳姿势中，其头部的前部呈现出几乎完全垂直于水面的平面；你会发现，前部的下部向后倾斜得相当大，以便为接收吊杆状下颌的长插座提供更多的退却空间；你观察到嘴完全在头下面，实际上，就像你自己的嘴完全在下巴下面一样。此外，你还观察到鲸鱼没有外部鼻子；它没有外部鼻子。他的鼻子——他的喷水孔——在他的头顶上；你会发现他的眼睛和耳朵都在头的两侧，从前面算起，几乎是他整个长度的三分之一。因此，你现在一定已经意识到，抹香鲸头部的前部是一堵死气沉沉、盲目的墙，没有任何一个器官，也没有任何温柔的突出部分。此外，你现在要考虑的是，只有在头部前部的最下方、最下方、向后倾斜的部分，才有最轻微的骨头痕迹；直到距离前额近二十英尺时，你的颅骨才得到充分发育。这样一来，这整个巨大的无骨物体就变成了一团。但最后，正如我们即将揭晓的那样，它的内容物部分包含最精致的油；然而，现在你应该了解这种物质的本质，这种物质如此坚不可摧地赋予了所有明显的女性气质。在之前的一些地方，我已经向你们描述过鲸脂如何包裹鲸鱼的身体，就像外皮包裹橘子一样。头部也是如此；但有一点不同：在头部周围，这个信封虽然不那么厚，但却具有无骨的韧性，任何没有接触过它的人都无法估量。 最严厉的尖头鱼叉，最锋利的长矛，由人类最强壮的手臂射出，却无力地反弹回来。抹香鲸的前额就好像铺着马蹄一样。我不认为其中潜藏着任何感觉。

Bethink yourself also of another thing. When two large, loaded Indiamen chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the sailors do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, they hold there a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest and toughest of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. By itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. But supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them, capable, at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale, as far as I know, has no such provision in him; considering, too, the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head altogether beneath the surface, and anon swims with it high elevated out of the water; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope; considering the unique interior of his head; it has hypothetically occurred to me, I say, that those mystical lung-celled honeycombs there may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with the outer air, so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and contraction. If this be so, fancy the irresistibleness of that might, to which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes.
想想另一件事。当两个体型庞大、满载货物的印度人在码头上互相拥挤时，水手们会怎么做？在接触点，它们之间不悬浮任何硬质物质，如铁或木头。不，他们拿着一大团圆形的丝束和软木塞，外面包裹着最厚、最坚韧的牛皮。那个勇敢而没有受伤的人接过果酱，这可能会折断他们所有的橡木手杖和铁撬棍。这本身就足以说明我所追求的明显事实。但除此之外，我还假设，普通的鱼体内有所谓的鱼鳔，能够随意膨胀或收缩；据我所知，抹香鲸没有这样的能力。还要考虑到他现在以一种令人费解的方式将头完全压在水面以下，然后就带着它高高地浮出水面游泳；考虑到其外壳的无阻碍弹性；考虑到他头部的独特内部结构；我说，我假设那些神秘的肺细胞蜂窝可能与外部空气有一些迄今为止未知和未曾怀疑的联系，因此容易受到大气膨胀和收缩的影响。如果是这样的话，请想象一下那种不可抗拒的力量，所有元素中最难以捉摸和最具破坏性的因素都促成了这种力量。

Now, mark. Unerringly impelling this dead, impregnable, uninjurable wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there swims behind it all a mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately estimated as piled wood is—by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as the smallest insect. So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this expansive monster; when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all ignorant incredulity, and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale stove a passage through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic with the Pacific, you would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow. For unless you own the whale, you are but a provincial and sentimentalist in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing for salamander giants only to encounter; how small the chances for the provincials then? What befell the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess’s veil at Lais?
现在，标记。准确无误地推动这堵死亡的、坚不可摧的、不会受伤的墙，以及里面最有活力的东西；在它的后面，有大量巨大的生命在游动，只能像一堆木头一样通过绳索来充分估计；一切都服从一个意志，就像最小的昆虫一样。因此，当我在下文中向你们详细介绍潜伏在这个庞大怪物中的所有特性和力量集中度时；当我向你展示他的一些更微不足道的脑力壮举时；我相信你会放弃所有无知的怀疑，并准备遵守这一点；即使抹香鲸开辟了一条穿过达里安地峡的通道，将大西洋与太平洋混合在一起，你也不会抬起一根眉毛。因为除非你拥有那条鲸鱼，否则你在真理上只是一个狭隘的感伤主义者。但清晰的真相是蝾螈巨人才能遇到的事情；那么省级选手的机会有多大呢？在莱斯揭开可怕女神面纱的弱小青年遭遇了什么？

Chapter 77
第77章

The Great Heidelburgh Tun.
海德堡大隧道。

Now comes the Baling of the Case. But to comprehend it aright, you must know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated upon.
现在是巴陵案。但要正确理解它，你必须了解所操作事物的奇怪内部结构。

Regarding the Sperm Whale’s head as a solid oblong, you may, on an inclined plane, sideways divide it into two quoins,* whereof the lower is the bony structure, forming the cranium and jaws, and the upper an unctuous mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming the expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale. At the middle of the forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and then you have two almost equal parts, which before were naturally divided by an internal wall of a thick tendinous substance.
将抹香鲸的头部视为一个实心的长方形，你可以在一个斜面上，将其从侧面分成两个角，*其中下部是骨骼结构，形成颅骨和颌骨，上部是完全没有骨头的油状物质;它宽阔的前端形成了鲸鱼的扩展的垂直前额。在前额的中间水平地细分这个上角，然后你就有了两个几乎相等的部分，这两个部分之前被厚厚的肌腱物质的内壁自然地分开。

*Quoin is not a Euclidean term. It belongs to the pure nautical mathematics. I know not that it has been defined before. A quoin is a solid which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the steep inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of both sides.
*Quoin 不是欧几里得术语。它属于纯航海数学。我不知道它之前已经被定义过。角角是一种固体，它与楔子的不同之处在于其尖端是由一侧的陡峭倾斜而不是两侧相互逐渐变细形成的。

The lower subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb of oil, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand infiltrated cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole extent. The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is mystically carved in front, so the whale’s vast plaited forehead forms innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his wondrous tun. Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tun of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily vintages; namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure, limpid, and odoriferous state. Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed in any other part of the creature. Though in life it remains perfectly fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the first thin delicate ice is just forming in water. A large whale’s case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm, though from unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it is spilled, leaks, and dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish business of securing what you can.
下部细分的部分称为垃圾，是一个巨大的油蜂窝，由贯穿其整个范围的坚韧弹性白色纤维交叉和再交叉形成一万个渗透细胞。上部被称为“外壳”，可以被视为抹香鲸的海德堡大桶。由于那条著名的大三环被神秘地雕刻在前面，因此鲸鱼巨大的辫子前额形成了无数奇怪的装置，为他奇妙的桶做了象征性的装饰。此外，由于海德堡总是盛产莱茵河谷最优质的葡萄酒，因此鲸鱼桶中含有迄今为止他所有油性年份中最珍贵的葡萄酒；即，高度珍贵的鲸蜡，处于绝对纯净、清澈且散发香味的状态。在该生物的任何其他部位也未发现这种珍贵的物质是纯合金的。虽然在生前它仍保持完美的流动性，但死后暴露在空气中后，它很快就开始凝固；发出美丽的水晶芽，就像第一片薄薄的细腻冰刚刚在水中形成时一样。一头大鲸鱼的精子箱通常会产生大约五百加仑的精子，尽管在不可避免的情况下，其中相当一部分会溢出、泄漏和滴落，或者在确保你能获得的东西的棘手过程中不可避免地丢失。

I know not with what fine and costly material the Heidelburgh Tun was coated within, but in superlative richness that coating could not possibly have compared with the silken pearl-coloured membrane, like the lining of a fine pelisse, forming the inner surface of the Sperm Whale’s case.
我不知道海德堡敦的涂层是用什么精细而昂贵的材料制成的，但涂层的极其丰富程度不可能与丝绸珍珠色膜相比，就像细皮套的衬里一样，形成了精子的内表面鲸鱼的案例。

It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale embraces the entire length of the entire top of the head; and since—as has been elsewhere set forth—the head embraces one third of the whole length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty feet for a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship’s side.
可以看出，抹香鲸的海德堡头包围了整个头顶的整个长度；因为——正如在别处所阐述的——头部占据了该生物整个长度的三分之一，然后将一头体型较大的鲸鱼的长度定为八十英尺，那么头部的深度就超过了二十六英尺。 tun，当它在船舷上纵向上下吊起时。

As in decapitating the whale, the operator’s instrument is brought close to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest a careless, untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its invaluable contents. It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which is at last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by the enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side, make quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter.
与斩首鲸鱼一样，操作员的仪器靠近随后将入口强行插入鲸蜡盒的位置；因此，他必须格外小心，以免不小心、不合时宜的中风侵入圣所，浪费掉其中无价的内容。也正是头部的这个断头端最终被抬出了水面，并通过巨大的切割滑车保持在这个位置，其大麻组合在一侧，在该区域形成了相当荒野的绳索。

Thus much being said, attend now, I pray you, to that marvellous and—in this particular instance—almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm Whale’s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped.
说了这么多，我请求你们现在参加那场奇妙的、在这个特殊情况下几乎致命的行动，抹香鲸伟大的海德堡图恩被敲击了。

Chapter 78
第78章

Cistern and Buckets.
水箱和水桶。

Nimble as a cat, Tashtego mounts aloft; and without altering his erect posture, runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard-arm, to the part where it exactly projects over the hoisted Tun. He has carried with him a light tackle called a whip, consisting of only two parts, travelling through a single-sheaved block. Securing this block, so that it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one end of the rope, till it is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck. Then, hand-over-hand, down the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till dexterously he lands on the summit of the head. There—still high elevated above the rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries—he seems some Turkish Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower. A short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches for the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun. In this business he proceeds very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house, sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in. By the time this cautious search is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like a well-bucket, has been attached to one end of the whip; while the other end, being stretched across the deck, is there held by two or three alert hands. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the Indian, to whom another person has reached up a very long pole. Inserting this pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward guides the bucket into the Tun, till it entirely disappears; then giving the word to the seamen at the whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like a dairy-maid’s pail of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, the full-freighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly emptied into a large tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards the end, Tashtego has to ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun, until some twenty feet of the pole have gone down.
塔什特戈像猫一样敏捷，登上高处；并没有改变他的直立姿势，径直跑到悬垂的主帆臂上，到达它正好伸出在举起的图恩上方的部分。他随身携带一种称为鞭子的轻型滑车，仅由两部分组成，穿过单滑轮。他固定住这个木块，使其从帆桁臂上垂下，然后摆动绳索的一端，直到它被甲板上的一只手抓住并牢牢握住。然后，印第安人一手接一手地从另一部分落下，从空中落下，直到灵巧地落在头顶上。在那里，他仍然高高在上，高高在上，他对着其他人大声喊叫，就像一位土耳其宣礼员，在塔顶召唤善良的人们祈祷。一把短柄锋利的铁锹被送到他面前，他努力寻找合适的地方开始闯入敦河。在这件事上，他非常小心翼翼地进行，就像老房子里的寻宝者一样，敲响墙壁，寻找金子的砌筑处。当这个小心翼翼的搜索结束时，一个坚固的铁桶，就像一口井一样。 - 桶，已固定在鞭子的一端；而另一端则横跨甲板，由两三只警惕的手握住。最后这些人现在把水桶举到了印第安人的手中，另一个人已经向印第安人伸出了一根很长的杆子。塔什特戈将这根杆子插入桶中，向下引导桶进入Tun，直到它完全消失；然后向水手们发出命令，水桶又升了上来，像挤奶女工的桶里的新牛奶一样冒着气泡。满载的容器被小心地从高处降下，由指定的人员接住，并迅速倒入一个大桶中。 然后重新登上高处，再次进行同样的循环，直到深水池不再屈服为止。接近尾声时，塔什特戈必须越来越用力、越来越深地将长杆撞入敦河，直到杆子下降约二十英尺。

Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way; several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at once a queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild Indian, was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil One himself would have it to fall out so, without stating his particular reasons; how it was exactly, there is no telling now; but, on a sudden, as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up—my God! poor Tashtego—like the twin reciprocating bucket in a veritable well, dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of Heidelburgh, and with a horrible oily gurgling, went clean out of sight!
现在，裴廓德河的人们已经以这种方式打捆了一段时间了。几个桶里装满了芬芳的精液。突然发生了一件奇怪的事故。是否是那个塔什特戈，那个狂野的印第安人，如此粗心和鲁莽，以至于暂时松开了他单手握住的巨大电缆铲车，将头部悬在空中？或者他所站的地方是否如此阴险、如此恶臭？或者，恶人本人是否愿意让事情发生这样的结果，而不说明他的具体原因？到底是怎样的，现在还不得而知。但是，突然间，当第八十个或第九十个桶吸吮起来时——天哪！可怜的塔什特戈——就像一口名副其实的井里的双往复式桶一样，头朝下掉进了海德堡这个伟大的敦，然后伴随着可怕的油腻的汩汩声，消失得无影无踪！

‘Man overboard!’ cried Daggoo, who amid the general consternation first came to his senses. ‘Swing the bucket this way!’ and putting one foot into it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold on the whip itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head, almost before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom. Meantime, there was a terrible tumult. Looking over the side, they saw the before lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea, as if that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous depth to which he had sunk.
“有人落水了！”达古喊道，他在一片惊愕中首先醒悟过来。 “把水桶朝这边摆动！”然后把一只脚放进去，以便更好地把他那滑溜溜的手握在鞭子上，吊车把他高高地拉到头顶，几乎在塔什特戈到达之前它的内部底部。与此同时，发生了可怕的骚乱。他们从船舷侧望去，看到那颗原本毫无生气的头颅在海面下方剧烈地跳动着，仿佛那一刻抓住了某种重大的想法；然而，只有可怜的印第安人在这些斗争中无意识地暴露了他所陷入的危险深度。

At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was clearing the whip—which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles—a sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all, one of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with a vast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship reeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook, upon which the entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be on the point of giving way; an event still more likely from the violent motions of the head.
就在这时，当达古在头顶上清理鞭子时——不知何故，鞭子与巨大的铲球发生了冲突——听到了一声尖锐的破裂声；令所有人感到难以形容的恐惧的是，悬挂在头部的两个巨大钩子之一被扯断了，巨大的物体在剧烈的震动中侧向摇摆，直到醉酒的船摇摇晃晃，就像被冰山击中一样。剩下的唯一一个钩子，现在整个张力都依赖于它，似乎每时每刻都处于崩溃的边缘。该事件更有可能是由头部的剧烈运动引起的。

‘Come down, come down!’ yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but with one hand holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should drop, he would still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul line, rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.
“下来，下来！”海员们向达古喊道，但他一只手抓住了沉重的滑车，这样即使头掉下来，他仍会保持悬浮状态；黑人清理了罚球线后，将桶塞进了已经倒塌的井里，这意味着被埋的标枪手应该抓住它，然后被吊出来。

‘In heaven’s name, man,’ cried Stubb, ‘are you ramming home a cartridge there?—Avast! How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on top of his head? Avast, will ye!’
“看在老天的份上，老兄，”斯塔布喊道，“你是在往那里塞子弹吗？——阿瓦斯特！”这对他有什么帮助？把那个铁桶塞到他头上？阿瓦斯特，你愿意吗！

‘Stand clear of the tackle!’ cried a voice like the bursting of a rocket.
“远离铲球！”一个声音像火箭爆炸一样喊道。

Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass dropped into the sea, like Niagara’s Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering copper; and all caught their breath, as half swinging—now over the sailors’ heads, and now over the water—Daggoo, through a thick mist of spray, was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor, buried-alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea! But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away, when a naked figure with a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one swift moment seen hovering over the bulwarks. The next, a loud splash announced that my brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to the side, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment, and no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen. Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from the ship.
几乎在同一瞬间，伴随着一声雷鸣般的巨响，巨大的物体落入大海，就像尼亚加拉的桌石落入漩涡一样；突然如释重负的船体滚离了它，滚到了她闪闪发光的铜色深处。所有人都屏住了呼吸，半荡秋千——时而越过水手的头顶，时而越过水面——透过浓浓的水雾，隐隐约约地看到达古紧紧抓住下垂的滑车，而可怜的、被活埋的塔什特戈正在下沉。彻底沉入海底！但令人眼花缭乱的烟雾刚散去，就立刻看到一个手持登船剑的赤裸身影在舷墙上空盘旋。接下来，一声巨响宣布我勇敢的魁魁格已经潜入救援。一波又一波的冲向一边，每只眼睛都在数着每一个涟漪，时间一分一秒地过去，看不到沉子或潜水者的迹象。现在，一些人跳进了旁边的一艘船上，并把船推离了一点。

‘Ha! ha!’ cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch overhead; and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrust upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust forth from the grass over a grave.
'哈！哈！”达古突然从他头顶上安静、摇晃的栖息处喊道。从侧面看去，我们看到一只手臂从蓝色的波浪中直立起来。这是一种奇怪的景象，就像一只手臂从草地上伸到了一座坟墓上。

‘Both! both!—it is both!’—cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout; and soon after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand, and with the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into the waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk.
'两个都！两者都是！——两者都是！”——达古又高兴地喊道。不久之后，人们看到魁魁格一只手大胆地出击，另一只手抓住了印第安人的长发。他们被拉上等候的船，很快就被带到了甲板上。但塔什特戈迟迟没有醒过来，奎魁格看起来也不太精神。

Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after the slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side lunges near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then dropping his sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards, and so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon first thrusting in for him, a leg was presented; but well knowing that that was not as it ought to be, and might occasion great trouble;—he had thrust back the leg, and by a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a somerset upon the Indian; so that with the next trial, he came forth in the good old way—head foremost. As for the great head itself, that was doing as well as could be expected.
那么，这次崇高的救援是如何完成的呢？奎魁格在缓慢下降的头颅后面潜水时，用他锋利的剑在靠近其底部的地方进行了侧刺，以便在那里凿出一个大洞。然后放下剑，将长臂向内向上伸得很远，就这样抓住了可怜的塔什的头。他断言，当他第一次插入时，一条腿就出现了。但他很清楚，这不应该是这样，可能会引起很大的麻烦；他把腿向后推，然后巧妙地一举一投，给印第安人带来了一个萨默塞特；因此，在下一次考验中，他以古老的方式出现了——头在前。至于那颗大脑袋本身，表现也符合预期。

And thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg, the deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully accomplished, in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten. Midwifery should be taught in the same course with fencing and boxing, riding and rowing.
因此，凭借奎奎格在产科方面的勇气和高超技巧，成功地完成了分娩，或者更确切地说，塔什特戈的分娩，尽管遇到了最不幸和显然无望的障碍；这是一个永远不能忘记的教训。助产学应与击剑、拳击、马术和赛艇在同一课程中教授。

I know that this queer adventure of the Gay-Header’s will be sure to seem incredible to some landsmen, though they themselves may have either seen or heard of some one’s falling into a cistern ashore; an accident which not seldom happens, and with much less reason too than the Indian’s, considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of the Sperm Whale’s well.
我知道同性恋者的这种奇怪的冒险肯定会让一些陆地上的人感到难以置信，尽管他们自己可能已经看到或听说过有人掉进岸上的蓄水池；考虑到抹香鲸井的路缘非常滑，这种事故并不罕见，而且其原因也比印第安人的事故要少得多。

But, peradventure, it may be sagaciously urged, how is this? We thought the tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and most corky part about him; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of a far greater specific gravity than itself. We have thee there. Not at all, but I have ye; for at the time poor Tash fell in, the case had been nearly emptied of its lighter contents, leaving little but the dense tendinous wall of the well—a double welded, hammered substance, as I have before said, much heavier than the sea water, and a lump of which sinks in it like lead almost. But the tendency to rapid sinking in this substance was in the present instance materially counteracted by the other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair chance for performing his agile obstetrics on the run, as you may say. Yes, it was a running delivery, so it was.
不过，或许有人明智地催促，这是怎么回事呢？我们认为抹香鲸的有组织的、渗透性的头部是它身上最轻、最软木的部分；然而你却让它沉入比重远大于其本身的元素中。我们有你。一点也不，但我有你们；因为在可怜的塔什掉进去的时候，箱子里的轻质物质几乎被清空了，只留下了井壁的致密肌腱——一种双重焊接、锤击的物质，正如我之前所说，比海水重得多。 ，其中的一块几乎像铅一样沉入其中。但是，在目前的情况下，这种物质快速下沉的趋势被未与该物质分离的头部其他部分所抵消，因此它确实非常缓慢且有意地下沉，为奎奎格提供了一个公平的机会，可以在其上进行敏捷的产科手术。跑步，正如你可能会说的。是的，这是一个正在运行的交付，所以确实如此。

Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber and sanctum sanctorum of the whale. Only one sweeter end can readily be recalled—the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey in the crotch of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that leaning too far over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed. How many, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato’s honey head, and sweetly perished there?
现在，如果塔什特戈在那个头脑中消亡，那将是一次非常宝贵的消亡。被最白、最美味的芬芳鲸蜡所窒息；在鲸鱼的秘密内室和圣所中被棺材、灵车和坟墓埋葬。只有一个更甜蜜的结局可以轻易回忆起来——俄亥俄州一位采蜜人的美妙死亡，他在一棵空心树的分叉处寻找蜂蜜，发现了如此多的蜂蜜，以至于他倾斜得太远，蜂蜜把他吸了进去，所以他死后经过防腐处理。你们想想，有多少人也同样陷入了柏拉图的甜蜜头脑中，并在那里甜蜜地灭亡了呢？

Chapter 79
第79章

The Prairie.
草原。

To scan the lines of his face, or feel the bumps on the head of this Leviathan; this is a thing which no Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar, or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the Pantheon. Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces of horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the modifications of expression discernible therein. Nor have Gall and his disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the phrenological characteristics of other beings than man. Therefore, though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor. I try all things; I achieve what I can.
扫描他脸上的线条，或者感受这个利维坦头上的凹凸；迄今为止，还没有相相学家或颅相学家做过这样的事情。这样的事业看起来几乎和拉瓦特仔细观察直布罗陀岩石上的皱纹，或者加尔爬上梯子并操纵万神殿圆顶一样充满希望。尽管如此，拉瓦特在那部著名的作品中不仅处理了人类的各种面孔，而且还仔细研究了马、鸟、蛇和鱼的面孔；并详细阐述了其中可辨别的表达的修改。加尔和他的弟子斯普尔茨海姆也提出了一些涉及人类以外其他生物的颅相特征的暗示。因此，尽管我还不够资格成为先驱，但在将这两种半科学应用于鲸鱼方面，我会尽自己的努力。我尝试一切事情；我做到了我能做到的。

Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. He has no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most conspicuous of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies and finally controls their combined expression; hence it would seem that its entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely affect the countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire, cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable to the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in keeping without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose. Dash the nose from Phidias’s marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder! Nevertheless, Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so stately, that the same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no blemish at all. Nay, it is an added grandeur. A nose to the whale would have been impertinent. As on your physiognomical voyage you sail round his vast head in your jolly-boat, your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by the reflection that he has a nose to be pulled. A pestilent conceit, which so often will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal beadle on his throne.
从面相上看，抹香鲸是一种异常生物。他没有合适的鼻子。由于鼻子是五官中最中心、最显眼的部位；因为它可能最能改变并最终控制它们的组合表达；因此，作为外部附属物，它的完全缺失似乎一定会极大地影响鲸鱼的面容。因为就像在风景园林中一样，尖顶、冲天炉、纪念碑或某种塔楼被认为对于完成场景几乎是必不可少的。因此，如果没有高耸的镂空鼻梁，任何一张脸都无法在面貌上保持一致。把鼻子从菲迪亚斯的大理石朱庇特上撞下来，留下多么遗憾的事！然而，利维坦的体型如此之大，其所有的比例都如此庄严，以至于在雕刻的朱庇特身上的同样的缺陷是可怕的，在他身上根本没有任何瑕疵。不，这是一种额外的宏伟。鼻子对着鲸鱼是不恰当的。就像在你的相貌航行中，你乘着救生艇绕着他巨大的脑袋航行一样，你对他的崇高观念永远不会因为他有一个可供拉扯的鼻子而受到侮辱。这是一种令人讨厌的自负，即使是在看到王座上最强大的皇家教士时，这种自负也经常会坚持下去。

In some particulars, perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front of his head. This aspect is sublime.
在某些细节上，抹香鲸最令人印象深刻的面貌也许是它的整个头部。这方面是崇高的。

In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the morning. In the repose of the pasture, the curled brow of the bull has a touch of the grand in it. Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles, the elephant’s brow is majestic. Human or animal, the mystical brow is as that great golden seal affixed by the German Emperors to their decrees. It signifies—‘God: done this day by my hand.’ But in most creatures, nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of alpine land lying along the snow line. Few are the foreheads which like Shakespeare’s or Melancthon’s rise so high, and descend so low, that the eyes themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; and all above them in the forehead’s wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered thoughts descending there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the snow prints of the deer. But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and mighty god-like dignity inherent in the brow is so immensely amplified, that gazing on it, in that full front view, you feel the Deity and the dread powers more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living nature. For you see no one point precisely; not one distinct feature is revealed; no nose, eyes, ears, or mouth; no face; he has none, proper; nothing but that one broad firmament of a forehead, pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom of boats, and ships, and men. Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow diminish; though that way viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon you so. In profile, you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic depression in the forehead’s middle, which, in man, is Lavater’s mark of genius.
在思想上，人的细眉就像东方在早晨烦恼时一样。静谧的牧场上，公牛卷曲的眉头透着一股威严。推重炮上山隘，象眉雄伟。无论是人类还是动物，神秘的眉毛就像德国皇帝在法令上贴上的金色印章。它的意思是——“上帝：这一天是我亲手完成的。”但对大多数生物来说，不，对人类来说，额头常常只是沿着雪线的一小片高山地带。很少有人的额头像莎士比亚或梅兰克顿那样升得如此之高，又落得如此之低，以至于眼睛本身就像清澈、永恒、无潮的山间湖泊。在它们之上，在前额的皱纹中，你似乎追踪着鹿角的思想下降到那里喝水，就像高地猎人追踪鹿的雪印一样。但在伟大的抹香鲸身上，眉毛所固有的这种崇高而强大的神般的尊严被放大得如此之大，以至于凝视它，在完整的正面视图中，你会比看到任何其他鲸鱼更强烈地感受到神性和可怕的力量。自然界中存在的物体。因为你看不到任何一点；没有显露出任何明显的特征；没有鼻子、眼睛、耳朵或嘴巴；没有脸；他确实没有；除了额头上那宽阔的穹苍之外什么也没有，上面布满了谜语；伴随着小船、轮船和人类的厄运，它们悄无声息地沉没了。从侧面看，这奇妙的眉毛也没有减少；尽管这样看它的宏伟并不会对你如此霸道。从侧面看，你可以清楚地看到前额中间水平的、半新月形的凹陷，这对于人类来说是拉瓦特天才的标志。

But how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whale ever written a book, spoken a speech? No, his great genius is declared in his doing nothing particular to prove it. It is moreover declared in his pyramidical silence. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale been known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by their child-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile, because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue, or at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of protrusion. If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shall lure back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; and livingly enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove’s high seat, the great Sperm Whale shall lord it.
但如何呢？抹香鲸有天才？抹香鲸写过书，做过演讲吗？不，他的伟大天才是通过他没有做任何特别的事情来证明的。这一点在他金字塔式的沉默中也得到了体现。这让我想起，如果伟大的抹香鲸为年轻的东方世界所知，他就会被他们的儿童魔术师思想神化。他们将尼罗河的鳄鱼神化，因为鳄鱼没有舌头；抹香鲸没有舌头，或者至少它非常小，以至于无法伸出。如果今后任何一个有高度文化和诗意的民族将引诱回到他们与生俱来的权利，即古老的快乐的五一神灵；并在现在自我中心的天空中再次生动地为它们加冕；在现在无人出没的山上；那么可以肯定的是，伟大的抹香鲸将登上朱庇特的高位，成为它的主宰。

Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there is no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man’s and every being’s face. Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing fable. If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could not read the simplest peasant’s face in its profounder and more subtle meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of the Sperm Whale’s brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you can.
商博良破译了皱纹花岗岩象形文字。但没有商博良能够解读每个人和每个人的面孔中的埃及。面相学和其他人类科学一样，只是一则转瞬即逝的寓言。那么，如果威廉·琼斯爵士能读懂三十种语言，却无法读懂最简单的农民脸上更深刻、更微妙的含义，那么目不识丁的以实玛利怎么可能希望读懂抹香鲸可怕的迦勒底额头呢？我只是把眉毛放在你面前。如果可以的话请阅读。

Chapter 80
第80章

The Nut.
坚果。

If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist his brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible to square.
如果抹香鲸在面相上是狮身人面像，那么对于颅相学家来说，他的大脑就像一个无法平方的几何圆。

In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feet in length. Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of this skull is as the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level base. But in life—as we have elsewhere seen—this inclined plane is angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous superincumbent mass of the junk and sperm. At the high end the skull forms a crater to bed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this crater—in another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many in depth—reposes the mere handful of this monster’s brain. The brain is at least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden away behind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the amplified fortifications of Quebec. So like a choice casket is it secreted in him, that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny that the Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblance of one formed by the cubic-yards of his sperm magazine. Lying in strange folds, courses, and convolutions, to their apprehensions, it seems more in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard that mystic part of him as the seat of his intelligence.
成年生物的头骨长度至少有二十英尺。松开下颌，该头骨的侧视图就像一个适度倾斜的平面的侧面，整个底座位于水平底座上。但在生活中——正如我们在其他地方看到的那样——这个斜面被有角度地填满，几乎被巨大的垃圾和精子所占据。在高端，头骨形成一个火山口，将这部分物质埋在地下；而在这个火山口长长的底部之下——在另一个长度很少超过十英寸、深度也很少超过十英寸的洞里——只安放着这个怪物的一小部分大脑。大脑距离他生前的额头至少有二十英尺；它隐藏在其巨大的外围工事后面，就像魁北克强化防御工事中最里面的城堡一样。它就像一个精选的棺材一样被秘密地隐藏在他的体内，以至于我认识一些捕鲸者，他们断然否认抹香鲸除了由立方码的精子库形成的明显的大脑外，还有任何其他大脑。在他们看来，躺在奇怪的褶皱、路线和回旋中，将他的神秘部分视为他的智慧之所在似乎更符合他的一般力量的想法。

It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this Leviathan, in the creature’s living intact state, is an entire delusion. As for his true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any. The whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common world.
很明显，从颅相学的角度来看，这个利维坦的头部，在该生物完整的状态下，完全是一种错觉。至于他真正的大脑，你看不到任何迹象，也感觉不到任何迹象。鲸鱼就像所有强大的东西一样，对平凡的世界戴着假眉毛。

If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view of its rear end, which is the high end, you will be struck by its resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation, and from the same point of view. Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled down to the human magnitude) among a plate of men’s skulls, and you would involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on one part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say—This man had no self-esteem, and no veneration. And by those negations, considered along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and power, you can best form to yourself the truest, though not the most exhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency is.
如果你卸下他的头骨中的精液堆，然后从后面看它的后端，也就是高端，你会惊讶于它与人类头骨的相似之处，在相同的情况下，从相同的角度观察。看法。事实上，如果将这个颠倒的头骨（按比例缩小到人类的大小）放在一盘人类头骨中，你会不自觉地将它与人类头骨混淆。看到山顶的一处凹陷，你会用颅相学的说法说——这个人没有自尊，也没有尊敬。通过这些否定，再加上他巨大的体积和力量的肯定事实，你可以最好地为自己形成最真实的、尽管不是最令人兴奋的关于什么是最崇高的力量的概念。

But if from the comparative dimensions of the whale’s proper brain, you deem it incapable of being adequately charted, then I have another idea for you. If you attentively regard almost any quadruped’s spine, you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance to the skull proper. It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are absolutely undeveloped skulls. But the curious external resemblance, I take it the Germans were not the first men to perceive. A foreign friend once pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with the vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the beaked prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that the phrenologists have omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the cerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man’s character will be found betokened in his backbone. I would rather feel your spine than your skull, whoever you are. A thin joist of a spine never yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as in the firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world.
但如果从鲸鱼大脑的相对尺寸来看，你认为它无法被充分绘制出来，那么我有另一个想法给你。如果你仔细观察几乎所有四足动物的脊柱，你会惊讶地发现它的椎骨就像一条矮人头骨串成的项链，所有这些都与头骨本身有基本的相似之处。德国人自以为脊椎骨绝对是未发育的头骨。但我认为德国人并不是最先发现这种奇怪的外观相似之处的人。一位外国朋友曾经向我指出，在他杀死的一个敌人的骨骼中，他用椎骨以一种低音浮雕的形式镶嵌着他独木舟的喙状船头。现在，我认为颅相学家忽略了一件重要的事情，没有将他们的研究从小脑推向椎管。因为我相信，一个人的性格很大程度上体现在他的脊梁骨上。无论你是谁，我宁愿触摸你的脊椎，也不愿触摸你的头骨。一根细细的脊椎托梁从来没有支撑过一个完整而高贵的灵魂。我为自己的脊椎感到高兴，就像为我向世界扔出一半的那面坚定而大胆的旗帜感到高兴一样。

Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His cranial cavity is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being eight in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards. As it passes through the remaining vertebrae the canal tapers in size, but for a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course, this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance—the spinal cord—as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain. And what is still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain’s cavity, the spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost equal to that of the brain. Under all these circumstances, would it be unreasonable to survey and map out the whale’s spine phrenologically? For, viewed in this light, the wonderful comparative smallness of his brain proper is more than compensated by the wonderful comparative magnitude of his spinal cord.
将颅相学的这一脊柱分支应用到抹香鲸身上。他的颅腔与第一颈椎是连续的；在该椎骨中，椎管的底部宽十英寸，高八英寸，呈三角形，底部朝下。当它穿过剩余的椎骨时，神经管的尺寸逐渐减小，但在相当长的距离内仍然具有很大的容量。当然，现在这条管道里充满了与大脑几乎相同的奇怪纤维物质——脊髓。并直接与大脑沟通。更重要的是，对于许多脚来说，从脑腔中出来后，脊髓的周长仍然不断减小，几乎与大脑的周长相等。在所有这些情况下，从颅相学角度测量和绘制鲸鱼的脊柱是否不合理？因为，从这个角度来看，他的大脑本身相当小，但他的脊髓相当大，足以弥补这一点。

But leaving this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the Sperm Whale’s hump. This august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one of the larger vertebrae, and is, therefore, in some sort, the outer convex mould of it. From its relative situation then, I should call this high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the Sperm Whale. And that the great monster is indomitable, you will yet have reason to know.
但是，让这个暗示与颅相学家一起运作，我只想暂时假设一下脊椎理论，参考抹香鲸的驼峰。如果我没有记错的话，这个庄严的驼峰是在其中一根较大的椎骨上方升起的，因此，在某种程度上，它是它的外部凸模。从它的相对情况来看，我应该把这个高耸的驼峰称为抹香鲸身上坚定或不屈不挠的器官。而这个伟大的怪物是不屈不挠的，你还有理由知道。

Chapter 81
第81章

The Pequod Meets The Virgin.
裴廓德号与处女号相遇。

The predestinated day arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Derick De Deer, master, of Bremen.
预定的日子到来了，我们如期见到了少女峰号，不莱梅的船长德里克·德迪尔。

At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide intervals of latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with their flag in the Pacific.
荷兰人和德国人曾经是世界上捕鲸人数最多的民族，但现在却跻身最弱捕鲸民族之列。但在纬度和经度间隔很远的地方，你仍然偶尔会在太平洋上看到他们的旗帜。

For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects. While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and dropping a boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing in the bows instead of the stern.
出于某种原因，少女峰似乎非常渴望向她致敬。当距离“裴阔德”号还有一段距离时，她掉头抛下一艘小船，她的船长被推向我们，不耐烦地站在船头而不是船尾。

‘What has he in his hand there?’ cried Starbuck, pointing to something wavingly held by the German. ‘Impossible!—a lamp-feeder!’
“他手里拿着什么？”斯塔巴克指着德国人挥舞着的东西喊道。 “不可能！——喂灯者！”

‘Not that,’ said Stubb, ‘no, no, it’s a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he’s coming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don’t you see that big tin can there alongside of him?—that’s his boiling water. Oh! he’s all right, is the Yarman.’
“不是那个，”斯塔布说，“不，不，这是一个咖啡壶，斯塔巴克先生；”他要来给我们泡咖啡了，是Yarman；你没看到他旁边那个大锡罐吗？——那是他的开水。哦！他没事，是雅曼。”

‘Go along with you,’ cried Flask, ‘it’s a lamp-feeder and an oil-can. He’s out of oil, and has come a-begging.’
“随你去吧，”弗拉斯克喊道，“这是一个喂灯器和一个油罐。”他没油了，来乞讨。

However curious it may seem for an oil-ship to be borrowing oil on the whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly contradict the old proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes such a thing really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer did indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.
无论一艘油船在鲸鱼地借油看起来多么奇怪，无论它与向纽卡斯尔运煤的古老谚语有多么矛盾，但有时这样的事情确实发生了；在本案中，德里克·德·迪尔船长无疑确实如弗拉斯克所宣称的那样进行了一次灯馈送。

As he mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all heeding what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, the German soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale; immediately turning the conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can, with some remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in profound darkness—his last drop of Bremen oil being gone, and not a single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency; concluding by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically called a CLEAN one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the name of Jungfrau or the Virgin.
当他登上甲板时，亚哈突然向他搭话，根本没有注意到他手里拿着什么。但德国人很快就用他蹩脚的行话表明了他对白鲸的完全无知。立即把话题转到他的灯笼和油罐上，其中有一些话涉及到他必须在深夜里在黑暗中转向吊床——他的最后一滴不莱梅油已经用完了，而且还没有捕获一条飞鱼来补充。不足；最后暗示他的船确实是渔业中技术上所谓的“清洁船”（即空船），当之无愧的“少女峰”或“处女”之名。

His necessities supplied, Derick departed; but he had not gained his ship’s side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, that without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he slewed round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.
德里克的必需品供应完毕后就离开了。但他还没有到达船舷，鲸鱼几乎同时从两艘船的桅杆顶升起。德里克是如此渴望追逐，以至于没有停下来把他的油罐和灯笼放在船上，他就调转船头，追上了利维坦的灯笼。

Now, the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German boats that soon followed him, had considerably the start of the Pequod’s keels. There were eight whales, an average pod. Aware of their danger, they were going all abreast with great speed straight before the wind, rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in harness. They left a great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling a great wide parchment upon the sea.
现在，比赛已经上升到下风方向，他和很快跟随他的其他三艘德国船，已经相当程度地启动了“裴阔德”号的龙骨。有八头鲸鱼，一个普通的群体。意识到自己的危险，他们全都顺风而行，以极快的速度并排前进，像许多套着挽具的马一样，紧紧地摩擦着自己的侧腹。他们留下了巨大而宽阔的尾迹，就像不断地在海面上展开一张巨大的羊皮纸。

Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge, humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted with the jaundice, or some other infirmity. Whether this whale belonged to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for such venerable leviathans to be at all social. Nevertheless, he stuck to their wake, though indeed their back water must have retarded him, because the white-bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one, like the swell formed when two hostile currents meet. His spout was short, slow, and laborious; coming forth with a choking sort of gush, and spending itself in torn shreds, followed by strange subterranean commotions in him, which seemed to have egress at his other buried extremity, causing the waters behind him to upbubble.
一头巨大、驼背的老公牛在这急速的尾流中游了很多英寻，由于它游得相对缓慢，而且身上长满了不寻常的黄色硬壳，看来它患有黄疸或其他一些疾病。这条鲸鱼是否事先就属于这个鲸鱼群，似乎值得怀疑。因为这种令人尊敬的利维坦根本不具备社交性。尽管如此，他还是紧随其后，尽管后面的水确实阻碍了他，因为他宽阔的口鼻处的白骨或隆起是虚线状的，就像两股敌对的水流相遇时形成的隆起一样。他的水流短、缓慢、费力。一股令人窒息的涌出，将自己撕成碎片，随后他体内出现奇怪的地下骚动，这些骚动似乎从他埋藏的另一端流出，导致他身后的海水冒泡。

‘Who’s got some paregoric?’ said Stubb, ‘he has the stomach-ache, I’m afraid. Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache! Adverse winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys. It’s the first foul wind I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so before? it must be, he’s lost his tiller.’
“谁有止痛药？”斯塔布说，“我担心他胃疼。”主啊，想想有半英亩的胃痛吧！孩子们，逆风让他的圣诞节变得疯狂。这是我所知道的第一场从船尾吹来的恶风。但是你看，鲸鱼以前也这样偏航过吗？肯定是这样，他失去了舵柄。

As an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a deck load of frightened horses, careens, buries, rolls, and wallows on her way; so did this old whale heave his aged bulk, and now and then partly turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose the cause of his devious wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin. Whether he had lost that fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were hard to say.
就像一位超载的印度人，载着满载受惊的马匹沿着印度斯坦海岸驶去，一路上翻滚、埋葬、打滚、打滚；这条老鲸鱼也是如此，抬起了他那年老的身躯，时不时地在他笨重的肋骨末端上翻了个身，暴露了他右舷鳍不自然的残端造成的弯曲尾流的原因。很难说他是在战斗中失去了鱼鳍，还是生来就没有鱼鳍。

‘Only wait a bit, old chap, and I’ll give ye a sling for that wounded arm,’ cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him.
“等一下，老伙计，我会给你一根吊带来绑住你受伤的手臂，”残忍的弗拉斯克指着他附近的鲸鱼线喊道。

‘Mind he don’t sling thee with it,’ cried Starbuck. ‘Give way, or the German will have him.’
“小心他别用它来吊你，”斯塔巴克喊道。 “让路，否则德国人就会抓住他。”

With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this one fish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most valuable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were going with such great velocity, moreover, as almost to defy pursuit for the time. At this juncture the Pequod’s keels had shot by the three German boats last lowered; but from the great start he had had, Derick’s boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by his foreign rivals. The only thing they feared, was, that from being already so nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron before they could completely overtake and pass him. As for Derick, he seemed quite confident that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding gesture shook his lamp-feeder at the other boats.
出于同一个目的，所有竞争的船只都瞄准了这条鱼，因为它不仅是最大的，因此也是最有价值的鲸鱼，而且它离它们最近，而且其他鲸鱼正在以如此快的速度前进，而且，几乎要抵挡住当时的追击。就在此时，裴廓德号的龙骨被最后放下的三艘德国船只击中；但从他的良好开局来看，德里克的船仍然领先，尽管他的外国对手每时每刻都在逼近。他们唯一担心的是，由于已经如此接近他的目标，他将能够在他们完全超越并超越他之前投出铁杆。至于德里克，他似乎对事情会是这样很有信心，时不时地用嘲笑的手势向其他船只摇晃他的灯笼。

‘The ungracious and ungrateful dog!’ cried Starbuck; ‘he mocks and dares me with the very poor-box I filled for him not five minutes ago!’—then in his old intense whisper—‘Give way, greyhounds! Dog to it!’
“这只忘恩负义、忘恩负义的狗！”斯塔巴克喊道。 “他用不到五分钟前我给他装满的那个可怜的盒子来嘲笑我并挑战我！”——然后用他古老的激烈低语——“让路，灰狗！狗吧！

‘I tell ye what it is, men’—cried Stubb to his crew—‘it’s against my religion to get mad; but I’d like to eat that villainous Yarman—Pull—won’t ye? Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do ye love brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come, why don’t some of ye burst a blood-vessel? Who’s that been dropping an anchor overboard—we don’t budge an inch—we’re becalmed. Halloo, here’s grass growing in the boat’s bottom—and by the Lord, the mast there’s budding. This won’t do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long of it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?’
“我告诉你们这是什么，伙计们”——斯塔布对他的船员们喊道——“生气是违背我的宗教信仰的；但我想吃掉那个邪恶的亚曼——拉——你愿意吗？难道你要让那个流氓打你吗？你喜欢白兰地吗？那么，给伴郎一杯白兰地。来吧，为什么你们中的一些人不爆血管呢？是谁在船上抛锚——我们一动不动——我们很平静。哈喽，船底长出了草——上帝作证，那里的桅杆已经发芽了。这是不行的，孩子们。看看那个亚曼！简而言之，伙计们，你们会喷火吗？

‘Oh! see the suds he makes!’ cried Flask, dancing up and down—‘What a hump—Oh, DO pile on the beef—lays like a log! Oh! my lads, DO spring—slap-jacks and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads—baked clams and muffins—oh, DO, DO, spring,—he’s a hundred barreller—don’t lose him now—don’t oh, DON’T!—see that Yarman—Oh, won’t ye pull for your duff, my lads—such a sog! such a sogger! Don’t ye love sperm? There goes three thousand dollars, men!—a bank!—a whole bank! The bank of England!—Oh, DO, DO, DO!—What’s that Yarman about now?’
'哦！看看他制造的泡沫！”弗拉斯克喊道，上下跳舞——“多么大的驼峰啊——哦，一定要把牛肉堆起来——像一根木头一样躺着！哦！我的小伙子们，做春天——晚饭吃南瓜和圆蛤，你知道，我的小伙子们——烤蛤蜊和松饼——哦，做，做，春天，——他是一百桶酒——现在不要失去他——不要哦，不要！——看那个亚曼——哦，你们不会拉扯你们的东西吗，我的小伙子们——真是太糟糕了！真是太糟糕了！你不喜欢精子吗？伙计们，三千美元不见了！——一家银行！——一整家银行！英格兰银行！——哦，做，做，做！——那个亚曼现在在做什么？

At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp-feeder at the advancing boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps with the double view of retarding his rivals’ way, and at the same time economically accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the backward toss.
此刻，德里克正在向前进的船只投掷他的灯供给器，还有他的油罐。也许有双重观点，即阻碍对手的前进，同时通过向后抛掷的短暂推动力在经济上加速自己的前进。

‘The unmannerly Dutch dogger!’ cried Stubb. ‘Pull now, men, like fifty thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils. What d’ye say, Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces for the honour of old Gayhead? What d’ye say?’
“无礼的荷兰狗！”斯塔布喊道。 “现在拉，伙计们，就像五万列战列舰上的红发恶魔一样。你说什么，塔什特戈？你是那个为了老盖伊德的荣誉而把你的脊椎折断成二二十块的人吗？你说什么？

‘I say, pull like god-dam,’—cried the Indian.
“我说，像天哪一样拉，”印第安人喊道。

Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of the German, the Pequod’s three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed, momentarily neared him. In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude of the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry of, ‘There she slides, now! Hurrah for the white-ash breeze! Down with the Yarman! Sail over him!’
受到德国人的嘲讽，“裴阔德”号的三艘船受到了猛烈但均匀的刺激，现在开始几乎并排行驶。就这样，他暂时靠近了他。带着刽子手靠近猎物时那种优雅、轻松、侠义的态度，三个副手自豪地站起来，偶尔用令人兴奋的叫声支持后面的桨手：“现在，她滑了！”为白灰微风万岁！打倒雅曼！驶过他！

But so decided an original start had Derick had, that spite of all their gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this race, had not a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the blade of his midship oarsman. While this clumsy lubber was striving to free his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick’s boat was nigh to capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage;—that was a good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask. With a shout, they took a mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German’s quarter. An instant more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale’s immediate wake, while stretching from them, on both sides, was the foaming swell that he made.
但是，如果德里克决定了一个最初的出发点，尽管他们如此英勇，但如果没有公正的判决降临到他身上，一只螃蟹抓住了他船中部桨手的刀片，他就会证明自己是这场比赛的胜利者。当这个笨手笨脚的人正在努力释放他的白灰时，当德里克的船几乎要倾覆时，他以极大的愤怒向他的手下咆哮；——这对斯塔巴克、斯塔布和烧瓶。他们一声大喊，猛地向前冲去，斜向德国人的方舱。又过了一会儿，所有四艘船都斜对着鲸鱼的尾迹，而鲸鱼制造的泡沫从它们两侧延伸出来。

It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight. The whale was now going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual tormented jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of fright. Now to this hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight, and still at every billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the sea, or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin. So have I seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circles in the air, vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks. But the bird has a voice, and with plaintive cries will make known her fear; but the fear of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained up and enchanted in him; he had no voice, save that choking respiration through his spiracle, and this made the sight of him unspeakably pitiable; while still, in his amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent tail, there was enough to appal the stoutest man who so pitied.
这是一个可怕的、最可怜的、最令人发狂的景象。鲸鱼现在正要出头，在他面前不断喷出喷水，受到折磨。而他那可怜的鳍则因恐惧而痛苦地拍打着他的身体。时而对着这只手，时而对着那只手，他在摇摇欲坠的飞行中左右摇摆，但每当他击破巨浪时，他都会痉挛性地沉入海中，或者侧身向天空滚动他那跳动的鳍。我也曾见过一只翅膀被折断的鸟在空中受惊地打着破碎的圈子，徒劳地试图逃离海盗鹰的追捕。但鸟儿有声音，它会用哀怨的叫声表达她的恐惧；但对这头巨大而沉默的海洋野兽的恐惧却被锁链和魔法束缚在他身上。他没有声音，只有气门发出的令人窒息的呼吸声，这让他的样子显得难以言喻的可怜。然而，他惊人的体积、闸门般的下巴和无所不能的尾巴，足以让最强壮的人感到震惊，而他却如此怜悯。

Seeing now that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod’s boats the advantage, and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick chose to hazard what to him must have seemed a most unusually long dart, ere the last chance would for ever escape.
现在看到，再过几分钟就会给裴廓德号的船只带来优势，德里克不想因此而挫败他的比赛，而是选择冒险，在最后一次机会永远消失之前，他选择了一个在他看来肯定是最不寻常的长镖的冒险。逃脱。

But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke, than all three tigers—Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo—instinctively sprang to their feet, and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their barbs; and darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three Nantucket irons entered the whale. Blinding vapours of foam and white-fire! The three boats, in the first fury of the whale’s headlong rush, bumped the German’s aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by the three flying keels.
但他的标枪手一站起来准备击球，三只老虎——魁魁格、塔什特戈、达古——本能地跳了起来，排成对角线，同时伸出倒刺；飞过德国标枪手的头顶后，他们的三枚楠塔基特铁杆刺入了鲸鱼。令人眼花缭乱的泡沫蒸气和白火！在鲸鱼猛冲的第一轮狂怒中，三艘船以如此大的力量撞到了德国人的旁边，德里克和他受挫的标枪手都被甩了出去，并被三艘飞龙骨驶了过去。

‘Don’t be afraid, my butter-boxes,’ cried Stubb, casting a passing glance upon them as he shot by; ‘ye’ll be picked up presently—all right—I saw some sharks astern—St. Bernard’s dogs, you know—relieve distressed travellers. Hurrah! this is the way to sail now. Every keel a sunbeam! Hurrah!—Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad cougar! This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on a plain—makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that way; and there’s danger of being pitched out too, when you strike a hill. Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he’s going to Davy Jones—all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! this whale carries the everlasting mail!’
“别害怕，我的黄油盒，”斯塔布喊道，飞驰而过时瞥了他们一眼。 “你们很快就会被接走——好吧——我看到船尾有一些鲨鱼——圣约翰号。”你知道，伯纳德的狗可以缓解痛苦的旅行者。欢呼！这就是现在航行的方式。每一条龙骨都是阳光！万岁！——我们就像疯狂美洲狮尾巴上的三个锡水壶一样！这让我想起平原上穿着提尔伯里的大象，把它固定在大象身上——孩子们，当你这样固定在大象身上时，轮辐就会飞起来；当你撞上一座小山时，也有被抛出的危险。欢呼！这就是一个人去戴维·琼斯时的感受——沿着无尽的斜面冲下去！欢呼！这头鲸鱼携带着永恒的邮件！”

But the monster’s run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, he tumultuously sounded. With a grating rush, the three lines flew round the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them; while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would soon exhaust the lines, that using all their dexterous might, they caught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on; till at last—owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead-lined chocks of the boats, whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue—the gunwales of the bows were almost even with the water, while the three sterns tilted high in the air. And the whale soon ceasing to sound, for some time they remained in that attitude, fearful of expending more line, though the position was a little ticklish. But though boats have been taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this ‘holding on,’ as it is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live flesh from the back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon rising again to meet the sharp lance of his foes. Yet not to speak of the peril of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always the best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted. Because, owing to the enormous surface of him—in a full grown sperm whale something less than 2000 square feet—the pressure of the water is immense. We all know what an astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even here, above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale, bearing on his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean! It must at least equal the weight of fifty atmospheres. One whaleman has estimated it at the weight of twenty line-of-battle ships, with all their guns, and stores, and men on board.
但怪物的奔跑是短暂的。他突然喘息一声，声音嘶哑。三根绳子发出刺耳的声音，绕着红海龟飞来飞去，其力量之大，足以在红海龟上挖出深深的凹槽。标枪手们非常担心这种快速的声音很快就会耗尽鱼线，他们用尽所有灵巧的力量，用绳子抓住了反复冒烟的转弯。直到最后——由于船的铅衬楔的垂直张力，三根绳子从那里笔直地伸入蓝色——船头的舷缘几乎与水面齐平，而三个船尾在水中高高倾斜。空气。鲸鱼很快就停止了叫声，有一段时间他们一直保持着这种态度，担心会消耗更多的线，尽管这个位置有点痒痒。尽管船只就这样被击沉和迷失，但这就是所谓的“坚持”；这是用他背部活肉的锋利倒钩钩住的；正是这一点常常折磨着利维坦，使其很快再次崛起，迎接敌人的锋利长矛。然而，且不说事情的危险性，就值得怀疑的是，这种做法是否总是最好的？因为我们可以合理地推测，受伤的鲸鱼在水下停留的时间越长，它就越疲惫。因为，由于其巨大的表面积（成年抹香鲸的面积不到 2000 平方英尺），水压非常巨大。我们都知道我们自己所承受的大气重量是多么惊人。即使在这里，在地面上，在空中；那么，鲸鱼背上背负着两百寻深海的重担是多么巨大啊！它的重量至少必须等于五十个大气压。 一位捕鲸人估计它的重量相当于二十艘战列舰的重量，连同船上所有的枪支、补给品和人员。

As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down into its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any sort, nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths; what landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and placidity, the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in agony! Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows. Seems it credible that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan was suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock. Suspended? and to what? To three bits of board. Is this the creature of whom it was once so triumphantly said—‘Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish-spears? The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold, the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon: he esteemeth iron as straw; the arrow cannot make him flee; darts are counted as stubble; he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!’ This the creature? this he? Oh! that unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength of a thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under the mountains of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod’s fish-spears!
当三艘船停泊在波涛汹涌的海面上，凝视着永恒的蓝色正午时；没有任何形式的呻吟或哭声，不，甚至连涟漪或气泡都没有从它的深处升起。陆地上的人会想到什么，在所有的寂静和平静之下，海洋中最大的怪物正在痛苦地翻滚和扭动！船头看不到八英寸长的垂直绳索。似乎可信的是，巨大的利维坦被三根这样细的线悬挂起来，就像八天时钟的大重量一样。暂停？以及什么？到三块板。这就是曾经被如此胜利地说过的那个生物：“你能用带刺的铁钉填满他的皮肤吗？”还是他的头长着鱼矛？攻击他的人，无论是长枪、飞镖还是哈伯根，都不能抵挡他的刀剑。他视铁如干草；箭不能使他逃跑；飞镖算作茬；他嘲笑长矛的震动！’这就是生物吗？这个他？哦！未应验的事情应该跟随先知。因为利维坦尾巴上有一千条大腿的力量，已经把头伸到了大海的山脉下面，以躲避伯廓德号的鱼矛！

In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boats sent down beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broad enough to shade half Xerxes’ army. Who can tell how appalling to the wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head!
在那个倾斜的午后阳光下，三艘船在水面下投下的影子一定足够长、足够宽，足以遮蔽薛西斯大军的一半。谁知道如此巨大的幻影从头顶掠过，对受伤的鲸鱼来说是多么可怕！

‘Stand by, men; he stirs,’ cried Starbuck, as the three lines suddenly vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every oarsman felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part from the downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce upwards, as a small icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears are scared from it into the sea.
“伙计们，待命； “他动起来了，”斯塔巴克喊道，这时三根线突然在水中振动，明显地向上传导给他们，就像通过磁力线一样，鲸鱼的生与死的搏动，让每个桨手在座位上都能感觉到它们。下一刻，船头的向下压力在很大程度上得到缓解，船突然向上弹起，就像一片小冰原，当一群密集的白熊被吓到海里时一样。

‘Haul in! Haul in!’ cried Starbuck again; ‘he’s rising.’
‘拉进来！ “拉进来！”斯塔巴克又喊道。 “他正在崛起。”

The lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand’s breadth could have been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all dripping into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within two ship’s lengths of the hunters.
就在不到一瞬间，这些鱼线连一只手的宽度都无法获得，现在却被快速地卷成长长的线圈，全部滴到船上，很快鲸鱼就在距离猎人两艘船的距离内破水而出。

His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. In most land animals there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins, whereby when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off in certain directions. Not so with the whale; one of whose peculiarities it is to have an entire non-valvular structure of the blood-vessels, so that when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon, a deadly drain is at once begun upon his whole arterial system; and when this is heightened by the extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance below the surface, his life may be said to pour from him in incessant streams. Yet so vast is the quantity of blood in him, and so distant and numerous its interior fountains, that he will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period; even as in a drought a river will flow, whose source is in the well-springs of far-off and undiscernible hills. Even now, when the boats pulled upon this whale, and perilously drew over his swaying flukes, and the lances were darted into him, they were followed by steady jets from the new made wound, which kept continually playing, while the natural spout-hole in his head was only at intervals, however rapid, sending its affrighted moisture into the air. From this last vent no blood yet came, because no vital part of him had thus far been struck. His life, as they significantly call it, was untouched.
他的动作明显表明他极度疲惫。大多数陆地动物的许多静脉中都有某些阀门或闸门，因此当受伤时，血液在某种程度上至少会立即在某些方向上被切断。鲸鱼则不然。其特点之一是其血管具有完整的非瓣膜结构，因此，即使被鱼叉这样小的尖端刺穿，他的整个动脉系统也会立即开始致命的排水。当这种情况因地表以下很远的地方的水的巨大压力而加剧时，他的生命可以说是从他身上源源不断地倾泻而出。然而，他体内的血量如此之大，其内部的源泉又如此遥远又众多，以至于他会在相当长的一段时间内不断地流血。就如天旱时，河水会流淌，其源头是在遥远的、难以辨认的山丘的泉水里。即使是现在，当船只拉住这头鲸鱼，危险地拉过他摇曳的尾鳍，长矛刺入他的身体时，紧随其后的是从新造成的伤口中稳定地喷射出的水流，这些水流不断地玩耍，而天然的喷水孔他的脑海中只是时不时地，无论速度有多快，都会将令人恐惧的湿气散发到空气中。最后一个出口还没有流血，因为到目前为止，他的要害部分还没有被击中。他的生活，正如人们所说的那样，没有受到任何影响。

As the boats now more closely surrounded him, the whole upper part of his form, with much of it that is ordinarily submerged, was plainly revealed. His eyes, or rather the places where his eyes had been, were beheld. As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot-holes of the noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which the whale’s eyes had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly pitiable to see. But pity there was none. For all his old age, and his one arm, and his blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to light the gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate the solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all. Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a strangely discoloured bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low down on the flank.
当船只更加紧密地包围着他时，他整个上半身，以及通常淹没在水中的大部分，都清晰可见。人们看到了他的眼睛，或者更确切地说，他曾经有过眼睛的地方。正如最高贵的橡树倒伏时，奇怪的错误生长的物质聚集在节孔中一样，从鲸鱼的眼睛曾经占据的地方，现在突出了盲目的灯泡，看起来非常可怜。但可惜没有。尽管他年事已高，还有他的一只手臂和一双失明的眼睛，他必须死去并被谋杀，才能照亮同性恋的新娘和其他男人的欢乐，也照亮宣扬无条件的庄严教堂。所有人对所有人无害。他的血液仍在翻滚，最后，他在侧腹下方部分露出了一蒲式耳大小的奇怪变色的束或突起。

‘A nice spot,’ cried Flask; ‘just let me prick him there once.’
“好地方，”弗拉斯克喊道。 “让我刺他一下吧。”

‘Avast!’ cried Starbuck, ‘there’s no need of that!’
“阿瓦斯特！”斯塔巴克喊道，“没必要这样！”

But humane Starbuck was too late. At the instant of the dart an ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and goaded by it into more than sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick blood, with swift fury blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and their glorying crews all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask’s boat and marring the bows. It was his death stroke. For, by this time, so spent was he by loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin, then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up the white secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was most piteous, that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water is gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled melancholy gurglings the spray-column lowers and lowers to the ground—so the last long dying spout of the whale.
但人性化的星巴克却为时已晚。就在飞镖射出的那一瞬间，一股溃疡性的喷射流从这个残酷的伤口中射出，被它刺激得更加痛苦，鲸鱼现在喷出浓稠的血液，以迅猛的愤怒盲目地冲向飞船，把它们和它们光荣的船员们溅得满身都是。血雨倾盆，弗拉斯克的船倾覆并损坏了船头。这是他的死亡中风。因为，此时他已因失血过多而精疲力竭，无助地从自己造成的残骸中滚了出去。它侧躺着，气喘吁吁，用残缺的鳍无力地拍打着，然后一遍又一遍地缓慢地旋转，就像一个逐渐衰弱的世界；露出他腹部白色的秘密；像一根木头一样躺着，死了。最可怜的是，最后一个即将过期的壶嘴。就好像水被看不见的手从某个巨大的喷泉中逐渐抽走一样，伴随着半压抑的忧郁的汩汩声，喷柱不断地降低到地面——这就是鲸鱼最后一次漫长垂死的喷水。

Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled. Immediately, by Starbuck’s orders, lines were secured to it at different points, so that ere long every boat was a buoy; the sunken whale being suspended a few inches beneath them by the cords. By very heedful management, when the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferred to her side, and was strongly secured there by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain that unless artificially upheld, the body would at once sink to the bottom.
很快，当船员们等待船的到来时，船体出现了下沉的迹象，而船上的所有财宝都未开膛破肚。根据斯塔巴克的命令，立即在不同的点将绳子固定在船上，这样不久之后，每艘船都成为了浮标。沉没的鲸鱼被绳索悬挂在他们下方几英寸处。经过非常谨慎的管理，当船靠近时，鲸鱼被转移到她的身边，并用最坚硬的尾链牢牢地固定在那里，因为很明显，除非人工支撑，否则鲸鱼的身体会立即沉入海底。

It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade, the entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh, on the lower part of the bunch before described. But as the stumps of harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of captured whales, with the flesh perfectly healed around them, and no prominence of any kind to denote their place; therefore, there must needs have been some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for the ulceration alluded to. But still more curious was the fact of a lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron, the flesh perfectly firm about it. Who had darted that stone lance? And when? It might have been darted by some Nor’ West Indian long before America was discovered.
碰巧的是，几乎在用铁锹第一次切入他时，就发现一根腐蚀的鱼叉的整个长度都嵌入了他的肉中，位于前面描述的鱼叉的下部。但是，鱼叉的残端经常出现在被捕获的鲸鱼的尸体中，周围的肉完全愈合，没有任何突出的地方来表明它们的位置；因此，在本案中必须有其他一些未知的原因来充分解释所提到的溃疡。但更奇怪的是，在他身上发现了一个石头矛头，距离埋藏的铁器不远，周围的肉质非常坚硬。是谁射出了那把石矛？什么时候？它可能是早在美洲被发现之前就被一些北西印度人射出的。

What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous cabinet there is no telling. But a sudden stop was put to further discoveries, by the ship’s being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways to the sea, owing to the body’s immensely increasing tendency to sink. However, Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to the last; hung on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship would have been capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the body; then, when the command was given to break clear from it, such was the immovable strain upon the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and cables were fastened, that it was impossible to cast them off. Meantime everything in the Pequod was aslant. To cross to the other side of the deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of a house. The ship groaned and gasped. Many of the ivory inlayings of her bulwarks and cabins were started from their places, by the unnatural dislocation. In vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timberheads; and so low had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all approached, while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to the sinking bulk, and the ship seemed on the point of going over.
没人知道从这个巨大的柜子里还能搜出什么其他奇迹。但由于船体下沉的趋势急剧增加，这艘船史无前例地被侧向拖入大海，进一步的发现突然停止了。然而，拥有事务主宰权的星巴克却坚持到了最后。事实上，他如此坚决地抓住了它，以至于最后，如果仍然坚持将手臂与尸体锁在一起，船就会倾覆。然后，当发出脱离它的命令时，固定有锚链和缆绳的木头上的不可移动的压力是如此之大，以至于不可能将它们摆脱。与此同时，“裴阔德”号上的一切都倾斜了。穿过甲板的另一边就像走上一座房子陡峭的山墙屋顶一样。船发出呻吟声，喘息着。她的舷墙和船舱的许多象牙镶嵌物都是由不自然的错位从它们的位置开始的。徒劳地用手叉和乌鸦来攻击不可移动的锚链，将它们从木头上撬开。现在鲸鱼已经沉得如此之低，根本无法接近水下的末端，而每时每刻，下沉的船体似乎都增加了数吨的重量，船似乎即将沉没。

‘Hold on, hold on, won’t ye?’ cried Stubb to the body, ‘don’t be in such a devil of a hurry to sink! By thunder, men, we must do something or go for it. No use prying there; avast, I say with your handspikes, and run one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut the big chains.’
“坚持住，坚持住，好吗？”斯塔布对尸体喊道，“别急着沉下去！伙计们，雷霆万钧，我们必须做点什么，或者全力以赴。在那里窥探是没有用的； “阿瓦斯特，我用你们的手杖说，你们中的一个人去拿一本祈祷书和一把小刀，砍断大锁链。”

‘Knife? Aye, aye,’ cried Queequeg, and seizing the carpenter’s heavy hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and steel to iron, began slashing at the largest fluke-chains. But a few strokes, full of sparks, were given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest. With a terrific snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the carcase sank.
'刀？是的，是的，魁魁格喊道，他抓起木匠的重型斧头，从舷窗探出身子，开始用钢对铁，开始砍最大的锚链。但当过度的压力影响到其余部分时，就打了几下充满火花的动作。随着一声可怕的响声，所有的扣件都脱落了。船转正，尸体沉没。

Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed Sperm Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately accounted for it. Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great buoyancy, with its side or belly considerably elevated above the surface. If the only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and broken-hearted creatures, their pads of lard diminished and all their bones heavy and rheumatic; then you might with some reason assert that this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so sinking, consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. But it is not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of life, with all their panting lard about them; even these brawny, buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.
现在，最近被杀死的抹香鲸偶尔不可避免地沉没是一件非常奇怪的事情。也没有任何渔民对此作出充分解释。通常，死去的抹香鲸会以很大的浮力漂浮，其侧面或腹部明显高于水面。如果说沉没的鲸鱼都是年老、瘦弱、心碎的生物，那么它们的猪油垫就会减少，所有的骨头都沉重且患有风湿；那么你可能会出于某种原因断言，这种下沉是由于鱼体内不存在浮力物质而导致的不寻常的比重造成的。但事实并非如此。对于年轻的鲸鱼来说，它们处于最健康的状态，充满崇高的抱负，在生命的温暖和五月中过早地被切断，周围充满了气喘吁吁的猪油；即使是这些强壮、活泼的英雄有时也会沉沦。

Be it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this accident than any other species. Where one of that sort go down, twenty Right Whales do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale; his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from this incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instances where, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale again rises, more buoyant than in life. But the reason of this is obvious. Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigious magnitude; becomes a sort of animal balloon. A line-of-battle ship could hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right Whale gives token of sinking, they fasten buoys to him, with plenty of rope; so that when the body has gone down, they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again.
然而，无论如何，抹香鲸比其他物种更不容易发生这种事故。凡是其中一头露脊鲸沉没的地方，就有二十头露脊鲸沉没。这种物种差异无疑在很大程度上归因于露脊鲸的骨骼数量较多。有时，仅他的百叶窗就重达一吨多；抹香鲸完全摆脱了这种束缚。但在某些情况下，经过几个小时或几天后，沉没的鲸鱼会再次升起，比生前更加浮力。但这的原因是显而易见的。他体内产生气体；他膨胀到惊人的程度；变成一种动物气球。那时一艘战列舰几乎无法压制住他。在新西兰海湾的海岸捕鲸活动中，当露脊鲸发出沉没的信号时，他们会用大量的绳子将浮标固定在它身上；这样，当身体下降时，他们知道当它再次上升时去哪里寻找它。

It was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from the Pequod’s mast-heads, announcing that the Jungfrau was again lowering her boats; though the only spout in sight was that of a Fin-Back, belonging to the species of uncapturable whales, because of its incredible power of swimming. Nevertheless, the Fin-Back’s spout is so similar to the Sperm Whale’s, that by unskilful fishermen it is often mistaken for it. And consequently Derick and all his host were now in valiant chase of this unnearable brute. The Virgin crowding all sail, made after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared far to leeward, still in bold, hopeful chase.
尸体沉没后不久，裴廓德号的桅顶传来一声叫喊，宣布少女峰号再次放下她的船只；尽管唯一能看到的喷水口是背鳍鲸的喷水口，它属于无法捕获的鲸鱼种类，因为它具有令人难以置信的游泳能力。然而，背鳍鲸的喷口与抹香鲸的喷口非常相似，以至于不熟练的渔民经常会误认为是抹香鲸。因此，德里克和他的全军现在正在英勇地追捕这个难以接近的野兽。圣母号挤满了所有的帆，追随她的四艘年轻的龙骨，因此他们都消失在下风处，仍然在大胆而充满希望的追逐中。

Oh! many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend.
哦！很多是鳍后卫，很多是德里克，我的朋友。

Chapter 82
第82章

The Honour and Glory of Whaling.
捕鲸的荣誉和荣耀。

There are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true method.
有些企业，小心乱才是真正的方法。

The more I dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up to the very spring-head of it so much the more am I impressed with its great honourableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many great demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or other have shed distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection that I myself belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a fraternity.
我越是深入研究捕鲸这个问题，并将我的研究推向它的源头，我就越对它的崇高和古老印象深刻。尤其是当我发现这么多伟大的半神和英雄、各种各样的先知，他们都以某种方式在这方面做出了杰出贡献时，我不由自主地想到，我自己属于一个如此荣耀的兄弟会，尽管只是从属的。 。

The gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and to the eternal honour of our calling be it said, that the first whale attacked by our brotherhood was not killed with any sordid intent. Those were the knightly days of our profession, when we only bore arms to succor the distressed, and not to fill men’s lamp-feeders. Every one knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda; how the lovely Andromeda, the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the sea-coast, and as Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off, Perseus, the prince of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster, and delivered and married the maid. It was an admirable artistic exploit, rarely achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this Leviathan was slain at the very first dart. And let no man doubt this Arkite story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast, in one of the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton of a whale, which the city’s legends and all the inhabitants asserted to be the identical bones of the monster that Perseus slew. When the Romans took Joppa, the same skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph. What seems most singular and suggestively important in this story, is this: it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail.
勇敢的珀尔修斯是朱庇特的儿子，他是第一个捕鲸人。为了我们使命的永恒荣誉，我们兄弟会袭击的第一头鲸鱼并不是出于任何肮脏的意图而被杀死的。那是我们职业的骑士时代，那时我们拿起武器只是为了救助受苦的人，而不是为了填满人们的灯笼。每个人都知道珀尔修斯和安德洛墨达的精彩故事；可爱的安德洛墨达，一位国王的女儿，如何被绑在海岸的一块岩石上，当利维坦正要把她带走时，捕鲸王子珀尔修斯勇敢地向前推进，用鱼叉刺死了这个怪物，生下女仆并与她结婚。这是一项令人钦佩的艺术成就，是当今最优秀的标枪手很少能实现的。因为这只利维坦在第一箭中就被杀死了。不要让任何人怀疑这个阿基特的故事；因为在叙利亚海岸的古代约帕（现在的雅法），在一座异教徒神庙中，多年来一直矗立着一具巨大的鲸鱼骨架，这座城市的传说和所有居民都声称这就是怪物的一模一样的骨头被珀尔修斯杀死的。当罗马人占领约帕时，同样的骸骨被凯旋地带到了意大利。这个故事中最奇特、最具有启发性的一点是：约拿是从约帕起航的。

Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda—indeed, by some supposed to be indirectly derived from it—is that famous story of St. George and the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and often stand for each other. ‘Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a dragon of the sea,’ saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale; in truth, some versions of the Bible use that word itself. Besides, it would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George but encountered a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battle with the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only a Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to march boldly up to a whale.
与珀尔修斯和安德洛墨达的冒险类似——事实上，有些人认为它是间接衍生的——是著名的圣乔治和龙的故事；我认为哪条龙是鲸鱼？因为在许多古老的编年史中，鲸鱼和龙都奇怪地混在一起，并且经常互相代表。以西结说：“你就像水中的狮子，海中的龙。”在此，明确表示鲸鱼；事实上，圣经的某些版本本身就使用了这个词。而且，如果圣乔治没有与深海巨兽交战，而是遇到了陆地上的爬行动物，那他的功绩就会大打折扣。任何人都可以杀死一条蛇，但只有珀尔修斯、圣乔治、棺材才有勇气勇敢地走向鲸鱼。

Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though the creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely represented of a griffin-like shape, and though the battle is depicted on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the great ignorance of those times, when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists; and considering that as in Perseus’ case, St. George’s whale might have crawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that the animal ridden by St. George might have been only a large seal, or sea-horse; bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogether incompatible with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene, to hold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself. In fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story will fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Dagon by name; who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse’s head and both the palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the stump or fishy part of him remained. Thus, then, one of our own noble stamp, even a whaleman, is the tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in the most noble order of St. George. And therefore, let not the knights of that honourable company (none of whom, I venture to say, have ever had to do with a whale like their great patron), let them never eye a Nantucketer with disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred trowsers we are much better entitled to St. George’s decoration than they.
不要让这个场景的现代绘画误导我们；因为，虽然古代那位勇敢的捕鲸人所遇到的生物隐约呈现出狮鹫般的形状，尽管描绘的是陆地上的战斗和马背上的圣人，但考虑到那个时代的巨大无知，当鲸鱼的真实形态艺术家们对鲸鱼一无所知；考虑到就像珀尔修斯的情况一样，圣乔治鲸可能是从海里爬到海滩上的；考虑到圣乔治骑的动物可能只是一只大海豹或海马；考虑到这一切，抓住这条所谓的龙正是伟大的利维坦本人，这与神圣的传说和最古老的场景草稿不会显得完全不相容。事实上，放在严格而尖锐的事实面前，整个故事就像非利士人的鱼、肉和禽类偶像，名叫大衮；他被立在以色列约柜前，他的马头和双手都从他身上掉下来，只剩下残肢或鱼腥味的部分。因此，我们自己的高贵印记之一，即使是捕鲸人，也是英格兰的监护人。按照良好的权利，我们楠塔基特岛的标枪手应该加入最高尚的圣乔治勋章。因此，让那个光荣的骑士团的骑士们（我敢说，他们中没有人像他们伟大的赞助人那样与鲸鱼有过关系），让他们永远不要轻蔑地看着楠塔基特人，因为即使穿着我们的羊毛连衣裙和涂了柏油的长裤，我们比他们更有资格获得圣乔治勋章。

Whether to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long remained dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that antique Crockett and Kit Carson—that brawny doer of rejoicing good deeds, was swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether that strictly makes a whaleman of him, that might be mooted. It nowhere appears that he ever actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed, from the inside. Nevertheless, he may be deemed a sort of involuntary whaleman; at any rate the whale caught him, if he did not the whale. I claim him for one of our clan.
是否承认赫拉克勒斯在我们中间，对此我长期以来一直持怀疑态度：因为尽管根据希腊神话，古老的克罗克特和基特·卡森——那个喜行善事的大力士，被鲸鱼吞下并扔了上来；但根据希腊神话，克罗克特和基特·卡森——那个喜行善事的大力士，被鲸鱼吞下并扔了上来；但根据希腊神话，克罗克特和基特·卡森被鲸鱼吞下并扔了上来。不过，这是否严格地使他成为一名捕鲸人，这可能是有争议的。似乎他从来没有真正用鱼叉叉过他的鱼，除非确实是从内部。然而，他可能被视为一种非自愿的捕鲸者。无论如何，即使他没有抓住鲸鱼，鲸鱼也抓住了他。我声称他是我们氏族的一员。

But, by the best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of Hercules and the whale is considered to be derived from the still more ancient Hebrew story of Jonah and the whale; and vice versa; certainly they are very similar. If I claim the demigod then, why not the prophet?
但是，最矛盾的权威人士认为，这个希腊赫拉克勒斯和鲸鱼的故事被认为源自更古老的希伯来语约拿和鲸鱼的故事。反之亦然；当然，它们非常相似。如果我声称是半神，那为什么不是先知呢？

Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole roll of our order. Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal kings of old times, we find the head waters of our fraternity in nothing short of the great gods themselves. That wondrous oriental story is now to be rehearsed from the Shaster, which gives us the dread Vishnoo, one of the three persons in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives us this divine Vishnoo himself for our Lord;—Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten earthly incarnations, has for ever set apart and sanctified the whale. When Brahma, or the God of Gods, saith the Shaster, resolved to recreate the world after one of its periodical dissolutions, he gave birth to Vishnoo, to preside over the work; but the Vedas, or mystical books, whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoo before beginning the creation, and which therefore must have contained something in the shape of practical hints to young architects, these Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo became incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths, rescued the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?
英雄、圣人、半神和先知也不仅仅构成了我们修会的全部。我们的大师尚未命名；因为就像古代的国王一样，我们兄弟会的源头就是伟大的诸神本身。这个奇妙的东方故事现在将在《沙斯特》中重演，它给我们带来了可怕的毗湿奴，印度教神格中的三个人之一；为我们的主赐给我们这位神圣的维什努本人；——维什努，通过他十个尘世化身中的第一个，永远将鲸鱼分别出来并神圣化。沙斯特说，当梵天或众神之神决定在世界周期性解体后重建世界时，他诞生了毗湿奴来主持这项工作；但是吠陀经，或者说神秘的书籍，对于维什努来说，在开始创作之前，对它们的细读似乎是必不可少的，因此，其中一定包含了对年轻建筑师的实用提示，但这些吠陀经却躺在水底。 ;于是毗湿奴化身为鲸鱼，在鲸鱼体内向最深处发出声音，拯救了神圣的经典。那么，这毗湿奴不是一个捕鲸人吗？骑马的人也能称为骑手吗？

Perseus, St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! there’s a member-roll for you! What club but the whaleman’s can head off like that?
珀尔修斯、圣乔治、赫拉克勒斯、约拿和毗湿奴！有一个会员名册适合您！除了捕鲸人俱乐部之外，还有哪个俱乐部能像这样出发呢？

Chapter 83
第83章

Jonah Historically Regarded.
约拿历史上受到重视。

Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were some sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans of their times, equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those traditions one whit the less facts, for all that.
前一章提到了约拿和鲸鱼的历史故事。现在，一些楠塔基特人相当不相信约拿和鲸鱼的历史故事。但后来也有一些持怀疑态度的希腊人和罗马人，他们与当时的正统异教徒不同，同样怀疑赫拉克勒斯和鲸鱼、阿里翁和海豚的故事。然而，尽管如此，他们对这些传统的怀疑并没有使这些传统成为事实。

One old Sag-Harbor whaleman’s chief reason for questioning the Hebrew story was this:—He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles, embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of which represented Jonah’s whale with two spouts in his head—a peculiarity only true with respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and the varieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this saying, ‘A penny roll would choke him”; his swallow is so very small. But, to this, Bishop Jebb’s anticipative answer is ready. It is not necessary, hints the Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the whale’s belly, but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth. And this seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop. For truly, the Right Whale’s mouth would accommodate a couple of whist-tables, and comfortably seat all the players. Possibly, too, Jonah might have ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on second thoughts, the Right Whale is toothless.
萨格港的一位老捕鲸人质疑希伯来故事的主要原因是：——他有一本古色古香的老式《圣经》，上面装饰着奇怪的、不科学的图画；其中一个代表乔纳的鲸鱼，头上有两个喷口——这种特性只有利维坦（露脊鲸，以及该目的变种）的一种才属实，渔民对此有这样的说法：“一便士卷”会窒息他”；他的燕子很小。但是，对此，杰布主教的预期答案已经准备好了。主教暗示说，我们没有必要认为约拿被埋在鲸鱼的肚子里，而是暂时停留在他嘴里的某个部位。对于善良的主教来说，这似乎很合理。事实上，露脊鲸的嘴可以容纳几张惠斯特牌桌，并舒适地容纳所有玩家。约拿也可能把自己藏在一颗空牙里。但转念一想，露脊鲸没有牙齿。

Another reason which Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his want of faith in this matter of the prophet, was something obscurely in reference to his incarcerated body and the whale’s gastric juices. But this objection likewise falls to the ground, because a German exegetist supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a DEAD whale—even as the French soldiers in the Russian campaign turned their dead horses into tents, and crawled into them. Besides, it has been divined by other continental commentators, that when Jonah was thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his escape to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a figure-head; and, I would add, possibly called ‘The Whale,’ as some craft are nowadays christened the ‘Shark,’ the ‘Gull,’ the ‘Eagle.’ Nor have there been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned in the book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver—an inflated bag of wind—which the endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a watery doom. Poor Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round. But he had still another reason for his want of faith. It was this, if I remember right: Jonah was swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean Sea, and after three days he was vomited up somewhere within three days’ journey of Nineveh, a city on the Tigris, very much more than three days’ journey across from the nearest point of the Mediterranean coast. How is that?
萨格-哈伯（他用这个名字）敦促他对先知的问题缺乏信心的另一个原因是与他被监禁的身体和鲸鱼的胃液有关的一些模糊的事情。但这种反对意见同样站不住脚，因为一位德国解经家认为，约拿一定是在一头死鲸的漂浮尸体中避难的——就像在俄罗斯战役中的法国士兵把死马变成帐篷，然后爬进帐篷一样。此外，其他大陆评论家也推测，当约拿从约帕船上被扔下海时，他立即逃到了附近的另一艘船上，那艘船的头像是鲸鱼；他的船头是鲸鱼。我想补充一点，可能被称为“鲸鱼”，因为现在有些船只被命名为“鲨鱼”、“海鸥”、“鹰”。 《约拿书》仅仅意味着一个救生圈——一个充气的风袋——濒临灭绝的先知游向它，从而从水灾中被拯救出来。因此，可怜的萨格港似乎全面陷入困境。但他缺乏信心还有另一个原因。如果我没记错的话，事情是这样的：约拿在地中海被鲸鱼吞下，三天后他被吐到距离底格里斯河畔尼尼微市三天路程以内的某个地方，三天多了。从地中海沿岸最近的地点穿越。那个怎么样？

But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that short distance of Nineveh? Yes. He might have carried him round by the way of the Cape of Good Hope. But not to speak of the passage through the whole length of the Mediterranean, and another passage up the Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would involve the complete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to speak of the Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any whale to swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah’s weathering the Cape of Good Hope at so early a day would wrest the honour of the discovery of that great headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and so make modern history a liar.
但是，鲸鱼除了尼尼微那么短的距离之外，就没有其他办法让先知降落吗？是的。他可能会带他绕道好望角。但更不用说穿越整个地中海，以及另一次穿越波斯湾和红海，这样的假设将需要在三天内完全环绕整个非洲，更不用说附近的底格里斯河水域了。尼尼微的遗址太浅，任何鲸鱼都无法在其中游泳。此外，约拿在这么早的时候就风化了好望角的想法将夺取著名发现者巴塞洛缪·迪亚兹发现这个伟大岬角的荣誉，从而使现代历史成为一个骗子。

But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced his foolish pride of reason—a thing still more reprehensible in him, seeing that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the sun and the sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by a Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah’s going to Nineveh via the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of the general miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, the highly enlightened Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah. And some three centuries ago, an English traveller in old Harris’s Voyages, speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honour of Jonah, in which Mosque was a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil.
但老萨格港的所有这些愚蠢的论点只能表明他对理性的愚蠢骄傲——这在他身上更应该受到谴责，因为他除了从阳光和大海中学到的知识之外几乎没有学到什么。我说这只是表明了他愚蠢、不敬虔的骄傲，以及对可敬的神职人员的可憎、邪恶的叛逆。因为，一位葡萄牙天主教神父提出了约拿经好望角前往尼尼微的想法，作为对普遍奇迹的信号放大。事实也是如此。此外，直到今天，高度开明的土耳其人仍然虔诚地相信约拿的历史故事。大约三个世纪前，一位英国旅行者在《老哈里斯航海记》中谈到了一座为纪念约拿而建造的土耳其清真寺，其中清真寺是一盏神奇的灯，无需任何油就能燃烧。

Chapter 84
第84章

Pitchpoling.
投球。

To make them run easily and swiftly, the axles of carriages are anointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the bottom. Nor is it to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it may possibly be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water are hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to make the boat slide bravely. Queequeg believed strongly in anointing his boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau disappeared, took more than customary pains in that occupation; crawling under its bottom, where it hung over the side, and rubbing in the unctuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from the craft’s bald keel. He seemed to be working in obedience to some particular presentiment. Nor did it remain unwarranted by the event.
为了让它们跑得轻松快捷，马车的车轴都涂了油。出于同样的目的，一些捕鲸者在他们的船上进行类似的操作。他们给底部涂油。毫无疑问，由于这种做法不会造成任何损害，因此也可能没有什么可鄙的好处；考虑到油和水是敌对的；油是一种滑动的东西，我们的目标是让船勇敢地滑行。奎奎格坚信要涂油他的船，在德国少女峰号失踪后不久的一天早上，他在这项工作中付出了比平常更多的努力；爬到它的底部，它挂在侧面，摩擦油腻的东西，好像在努力确保从飞船光秃秃的龙骨上留下一缕头发。他似乎是在服从某种特定的预感而工作。这件事也并非没有道理。

Towards noon whales were raised; but so soon as the ship sailed down to them, they turned and fled with swift precipitancy; a disordered flight, as of Cleopatra’s barges from Actium.
中午时分，鲸鱼开始饲养。但船一驶向他们，他们就转身迅速逃跑。一次无序的飞行，就像克利奥帕特拉从亚克兴出发的驳船一样。

Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb’s was foremost. By great exertion, Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the stricken whale, without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal flight, with added fleetness. Such unintermitted strainings upon the planted iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it. It became imperative to lance the flying whale, or be content to lose him. But to haul the boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast and furious. What then remained?
尽管如此，船只仍紧追不舍，斯塔布的船走在最前面。经过一番努力，塔什特戈终于成功地种下了一根铁杆。但受伤的鲸鱼根本没有发出声音，仍然继续水平飞行，而且速度更快。这种对所种植的铁的不间断的挤压迟早不可避免地将其提取出来。必须用矛刺死那头飞翔的鲸鱼，否则就满足于失去它。但要把船拖到他的侧翼是不可能的，因为他游得又快又猛。那么还剩下什么呢？

Of all the wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and countless subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced, none exceed that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling. Small sword, or broad sword, in all its exercises boasts nothing like it. It is only indispensable with an inveterate running whale; its grand fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance is accurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat, under extreme headway. Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten or twelve feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon, and also of a lighter material—pine. It is furnished with a small rope called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be hauled back to the hand after darting.
在经验丰富的捕鲸人经常被迫使用的所有奇妙的装置和灵巧、技巧和无数的微妙之处中，没有一个比使用称为“pitchpoling”的长矛的精细动作更重要的了。无论是小剑还是大剑，在所有的功法中都没有什么比得上的。只有对于一头顽强奔跑的鲸鱼来说，它才是必不可少的。它的重要事实和特点是，在极端的前进速度下，长矛从剧烈摇晃、猛烈颠簸的船上准确地射出美妙的距离。包括钢和木头在内，整个矛长约十或十二英尺；杖比鱼叉轻得多，而且材质也更轻——松木。它配有一根称为经线的小绳子，长度相当长，可以在飞镖后将其拉回手中。

But before going further, it is important to mention here, that though the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance, yet it is seldom done; and when done, is still less frequently successful, on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks. As a general thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before any pitchpoling comes into play.
但在进一步讨论之前，有必要在这里提一下，虽然鱼叉可以用长矛以同样的方式进行操作，但这种情况很少发生；而且，由于鱼叉与矛相比重量更大且长度更短，因此成功率仍然较低，这实际上成为严重的缺点。因此，一般来说，在任何投竿发挥作用之前，你必须首先快速接近鲸鱼。

Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous, deliberate coolness and equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excel in pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet ahead. Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice along its length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers up the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed. Then holding the lance full before his waistband’s middle, he levels it at the whale; when, covering him with it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, thereby elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his palm, fifteen feet in the air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler, balancing a long staff on his chin. Next moment with a rapid, nameless impulse, in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming distance, and quivers in the life spot of the whale. Instead of sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.
现在看看斯塔布；他在最严峻的紧急情况下表现出幽默、冷静和镇定，特别适合投球。看着他;他笔直地站在飞艇的颠簸的船头；拖船鲸鱼裹在柔软的泡沫中，位于前方四十英尺处。斯塔布轻轻地握住长矛，沿着它的长度扫视两三次，看看它是否完全笔直，然后用一只手吹着口哨收起经线的线圈，以便将其自由端牢牢握在手中，而其余部分则畅通无阻。然后，他将长矛完全举到腰带中央，对准鲸鱼；当他用它覆盖他时，他稳定地压下手中的枪托，从而抬高了尖端，直到武器相当平衡地立在他的手掌上，距离空中十五英尺。他有点像个杂技演员，下巴上撑着一根长棍子。下一刻，伴随着一种快速的、无名的冲动，明亮的钢铁在一个极好的高耸拱门中跨越了泡沫的距离，并在鲸鱼的生命点上颤动。他现在喷出的不再是苏打水，而是红色的血。

‘That drove the spigot out of him!’ cried Stubb. ‘‘Tis July’s immortal Fourth; all fountains must run wine today! Would now, it were old Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela! Then, Tashtego, lad, I’d have ye hold a canakin to the jet, and we’d drink round it! Yea, verily, hearts alive, we’d brew choice punch in the spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff the living stuff.’
“这把龙头从他身上拔了出来！”斯塔布叫道。 “这是不朽的七月四号；今天所有的喷泉都必须流酒！现在，它是老奥尔良威士忌，或老俄亥俄威士忌，或难以形容的老莫农加希拉威士忌！然后，Tashtego，小伙子，我会让你把一只鸭子举到飞机上，然后我们就围着它喝酒！是的，确实，只要心还活着，我们就会在他那儿的喷口里酿造精选的潘趣酒，然后从那个活生生的潘趣酒碗里喝下活生生的东西。

Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart is repeated, the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilful leash. The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and mutely watches the monster die.
在这样有趣的谈话中，灵巧的飞镖一次又一次地重复，长矛像灵巧的皮带拴着的灰狗一样回到主人身边。痛苦的鲸鱼开始慌乱；拖绳松开，投桨手落在船尾，双手合十，默默地看着怪物死去。

Chapter 85
第85章

The Fountain.
喷泉。

That for six thousand years—and no one knows how many millions of ages before—the great whales should have been spouting all over the sea, and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep, as with so many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some centuries back, thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain of the whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings—that all this should be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter minutes past one o’clock P.M. of this sixteenth day of December, A.D. 1851), it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings are, after all, really water, or nothing but vapour—this is surely a noteworthy thing.
六千年来——没有人知道有多少亿年前——巨大的鲸鱼应该在整个海洋中喷水，给深海花园洒水和雾化，就像许多喷水或雾化的罐子一样；几个世纪前，成千上万的猎人就应该在鲸鱼的喷泉附近观看这些喷水和喷水——这一切都应该是这样，然而，直到这神圣的一分钟（凌晨十五点十五分）公元 1851 年 12 月 16 日下午 10 点），这仍然是一个问题，这些喷出的究竟是真正的水，还是只不过是水蒸气——这无疑是一件值得注意的事情。

Let us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting items contingent. Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their gills, the finny tribes in general breathe the air which at all times is combined with the element in which they swim; hence, a herring or a cod might live a century, and never once raise its head above the surface. But owing to his marked internal structure which gives him regular lungs, like a human being’s, the whale can only live by inhaling the disengaged air in the open atmosphere. Wherefore the necessity for his periodical visits to the upper world. But he cannot in any degree breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm Whale’s mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface; and what is still more, his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth. No, he breathes through his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.
那么，让我们来看看这个问题以及一些有趣的项目。每个人都知道，通过鳃的特殊狡猾，鳍类部落通常呼吸着始终与它们游泳的元素相结合的空气。因此，一条鲱鱼或一条鳕鱼可能会活一个世纪，而一次也不会把头露出水面。但由于其明显的内部结构赋予了它像人类一样的规则肺部，鲸鱼只能通过吸入开放大气中的游离空气来生存。因此他有必要定期访问上层世界。但他无论如何都不能用嘴呼吸，因为在他平常的态度下，抹香鲸的嘴至少埋在水面以下八英尺；更重要的是，他的气管和他的嘴没有任何联系。不，他独自通过气门呼吸；这是在他的头顶上。

If I say, that in any creature breathing is only a function indispensable to vitality, inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a certain element, which being subsequently brought into contact with the blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle, I do not think I shall err; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words. Assume it, and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his nostrils and not fetch another for a considerable time. That is to say, he would then live without breathing. Anomalous as it may seem, this is precisely the case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, his full hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single breath, or so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he has no gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spine he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of vermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are completely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or more, a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in him, just as the camel crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus supply of drink for future use in its four supplementary stomachs. The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is indisputable; and that the supposition founded upon it is reasonable and true, seems the more cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable obstinacy of that leviathan in HAVING HIS SPOUTINGS OUT, as the fishermen phrase it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, upon rising to the surface, the Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform with all his other unmolested risings. Say he stays eleven minutes, and jets seventy times, that is, respires seventy breaths; then whenever he rises again, he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again, to a minute. Now, if after he fetches a few breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up again to make good his regular allowance of air. And not till those seventy breaths are told, will he finally go down to stay out his full term below. Remark, however, that in different individuals these rates are different; but in any one they are alike. Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere descending for good? How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the whale’s rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase. For not by hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand fathoms beneath the sunlight. Not so much thy skill, then, O hunter, as the great necessities that strike the victory to thee!
如果我说，在任何生物中，呼吸只是生命力不可缺少的一种功能，因为它从空气中吸收某种元素，随后与血液接触，赋予血液活力，那么我不认为我的观点是正确的。会犯错；尽管我可能会使用一些多余的科学词汇。假设一下，如果一个人体内的所有血液都可以一次呼吸，那么他可能会封闭自己的鼻孔，在相当长的时间内不再取另一个。也就是说，他将不再呼吸。尽管看起来很反常，但鲸鱼的情况恰恰如此，它每隔一段时间就系统地生活一整个小时甚至更长时间（在水底时），不吸一口气，也不以任何方式吸入一粒气体。空气;因为，请记住，他没有鳃。这怎么样？在他的肋骨之间和脊柱的每一侧，他都有一个引人注目的克里特岛迷宫般的粉丝状血管，当他离开水面时，这些血管会因含氧血液而完全膨胀。因此，在一个小时或更长的时间里，在一千英寻的大海中，他体内携带着过剩的活力，就像穿越无水沙漠的骆驼在其四个补充胃中携带着过剩的饮料以供将来使用一样。这个迷宫的解剖学事实是无可争议的。当我考虑到那只利维坦像渔民所说的那样，在喷水时表现出令人费解的顽固性时，基于此的假设是合理且真实的，对我来说似乎更有说服力。这就是我的意思。如果未受到干扰，抹香鲸在上升到水面后将继续在那里停留一段时间，与所有其他未受到干扰的上升完全一致。 假设他停留十一分钟，喷射七十次，即呼吸七十次；那么每当他再次起来时，他一定会再次经历七十个呼吸，到一分钟。现在，如果在他呼吸了几次之后你惊动他，让他发出声音，他总是会再次躲起来，以补充他定期的呼吸量。直到那七十次呼吸被告知之后，他才会最终下去，在下面度过他的整个任期。但请注意，对于不同的个体，这些比率是不同的；但在任何一方面他们都是相似的。现在，为什么鲸鱼要坚持喷出它的喷水，除非是为了在永远下降之前补充它的空气储备？同样明显的是，鲸鱼上升的必要性使他面临着追逐过程中的所有致命危险。因为当这个巨大的庞然大物在阳光下航行一千英寻时，用钩子或网都无法捕获它。那么，猎人啊，你取得胜利的关键不在于你的技巧！

In man, breathing is incessantly going on—one breath only serving for two or three pulsations; so that whatever other business he has to attend to, waking or sleeping, breathe he must, or die he will. But the Sperm Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time.
人的呼吸是不间断的——一次呼吸只提供两到三次脉动；因此，无论他必须处理其他事情，无论是醒着还是睡觉，他都必须呼吸，否则他就会死。但抹香鲸的呼吸时间只有七分之一或周日。

It has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout-hole; if it could truthfully be added that his spouts are mixed with water, then I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of smell seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at all answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so clogged with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power of smelling. But owing to the mystery of the spout—whether it be water or whether it be vapour—no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on this head. Sure it is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper olfactories. But what does he want of them? No roses, no violets, no Cologne-water in the sea.
据说鲸鱼只通过喷水孔呼吸。如果可以真实地补充说，他的喷嘴与水混合，那么我认为我们应该知道为什么他的嗅觉似乎在他身上消失了；因为他身上唯一符合他鼻子的东西就是那个一模一样的喷水孔。由于被两种元素所堵塞，它不可能具有嗅觉的能力。但由于喷口的神秘性——无论它是水还是蒸汽——目前还不能得出绝对的结论。不过，抹香鲸确实没有适当的嗅觉。但他想要他们做什么？大海里没有玫瑰，没有紫罗兰，也没有古龙水。

Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting canal, and as that long canal—like the grand Erie Canal—is furnished with a sort of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of air or the upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice; unless you insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles, he talks through his nose. But then again, what has the whale to say? Seldom have I known any profound being that had anything to say to this world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a living. Oh! happy that the world is such an excellent listener!
此外，由于他的气管仅通向喷水运河的管子，而且那条长运河（如大伊利运河）配备了一种锁（可打开和关闭），用于向下保留空气或向上排除空气水，故鲸无声；除非你侮辱他说，当他发出如此奇怪的隆隆声时，他是用鼻子说话。但话又说回来，鲸鱼有什么要说的呢？我很少认识有什么高深的存在对这个世界有什么话要说，除非是为了谋生而被迫结结巴巴地说出一些东西。哦！很高兴这个世界有如此出色的倾听者！

Now, the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it is for the conveyance of air, and for several feet laid along, horizontally, just beneath the upper surface of his head, and a little to one side; this curious canal is very much like a gas-pipe laid down in a city on one side of a street. But the question returns whether this gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words, whether the spout of the Sperm Whale is the mere vapour of the exhaled breath, or whether that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, and discharged through the spiracle. It is certain that the mouth indirectly communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this is for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle. Because the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he accidentally takes in water. But the Sperm Whale’s food is far beneath the surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would. Besides, if you regard him very closely, and time him with your watch, you will find that when unmolested, there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods of his jets and the ordinary periods of respiration.
现在，抹香鲸的喷水道主要用于输送空气，水平放置了几英尺，就在他头部的上表面下方，稍微偏向一侧；这条奇怪的运河很像铺设在城市街道一侧的煤气管。但问题又回到了这个煤气管是否也是水管？换句话说，抹香鲸的喷口是否仅仅是呼出的气体的蒸气，或者呼出的气体是否与口腔吸入的水混合并通过气门排出。可以肯定的是，嘴部与喷水道间接相通；但不能证明这是为了通过气孔排出水的目的。因为这样做的最大必要性似乎是在喂食时他不小心喝进了水。但抹香鲸的食物远在水面以下，即使他愿意，他也无法喷出食物。此外，如果你仔细观察他，并用手表给他计时，你会发现，在不受干扰的情况下，他的喷射周期和普通呼吸周期之间有一个一致的韵律。

But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject? Speak out! You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not tell water from air? My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy to settle these plain things. I have ever found your plain things the knottiest of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand in it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.
但为什么要纠缠一个人在这个问题上进行如此多的推理呢？讲出！你见过他滔滔不绝；然后声明 spout 是什么；你分不清水和空气吗？亲爱的先生，在这个世界上，解决这些简单的事情并不是那么容易的。我发现你的平淡事物是最棘手的。至于这个鲸鱼喷口，你可能几乎站在其中，但却不确定它到底是什么。

The central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping it; and how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it, when, always, when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view of his spout, he is in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading all around him. And if at such times you should think that you really perceived drops of moisture in the spout, how do you know that they are not merely condensed from its vapour; or how do you know that they are not those identical drops superficially lodged in the spout-hole fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the whale’s head? For even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day sea in a calm, with his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary’s in the desert; even then, the whale always carries a small basin of water on his head, as under a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up with rain.
它的中央本体隐藏在雪白晶莹的雾气之中。当你离鲸鱼足够近，可以近距离观察它的喷口时，你怎么能确定是否有水从里面掉下来呢？如果在这种时候你认为你确实察觉到了喷嘴中的水滴，你怎么知道它们不仅仅是水蒸气凝结而成的；而且是水蒸气凝结而成的。或者你怎么知道它们不是表面上嵌入鲸鱼头顶的喷孔裂缝中的那些相同的水滴？因为即使在平静的正午大海中平静地游泳，他高高的驼峰像沙漠中的单峰骆驼一样被晒干；即便如此，鲸鱼的头上总是顶着一小盆水，因为在烈日下有时你会看到岩石中的一个洞里装满了雨水。

Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the precise nature of the whale spout. It will not do for him to be peering into it, and putting his face in it. You cannot go with your pitcher to this fountain and fill it, and bring it away. For even when coming into slight contact with the outer, vapoury shreds of the jet, which will often happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of the thing so touching it. And I know one, who coming into still closer contact with the spout, whether with some scientific object in view, or otherwise, I cannot say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm. Wherefore, among whalemen, the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to evade it. Another thing; I have heard it said, and I do not much doubt it, that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes, it will blind you. The wisest thing the investigator can do then, it seems to me, is to let this deadly spout alone.
对于猎人来说，过度好奇地触摸鲸鱼喷流的确切性质也是不明智的。对他来说，凝视它并把脸放进去是不行的。你不能带着你的水罐去这个喷泉，装满它，然后把它带走。因为即使与喷射器外部的蒸汽碎片轻微接触（这种情况经常发生），你的皮肤也会因为接触到的东西的辛辣而变得异常敏感。我认识一个人，他与喷水口的接触更加紧密，无论是为了某些科学目标，还是其他，我不能说，皮肤从他的脸颊和手臂上剥落。因此，对于捕鲸者来说，喷口被认为是有毒的。他们试图逃避它。另一件事;我听人说过，如果喷射流正好喷到你的眼睛里，你就会失明，对此我并不怀疑。在我看来，调查员能做的最明智的事情就是不去理会这个致命的喷流。

Still, we can hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish. My hypothesis is this: that the spout is nothing but mist. And besides other reasons, to this conclusion I am impelled, by considerations touching the great inherent dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale; I account him no common, shallow being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed fact that he is never found on soundings, or near shores; all other whales sometimes are. He is both ponderous and profound. And I am convinced that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings, such as Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, there always goes up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the act of thinking deep thoughts. While composing a little treatise on Eternity, I had the curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected there, a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my head. The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep thought, after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an August noon; this seems an additional argument for the above supposition.
尽管如此，即使我们无法证明和证实，我们仍然可以做出假设。我的假设是这样的：喷口只不过是雾。除了其他原因之外，我之所以得出这个结论，是因为考虑到抹香鲸固有的尊严和崇高性。我认为他不是一个普通的、浅薄的生物，因为无可争议的事实是，他从未在水深探测或靠近海岸的地方被发现过。所有其他鲸鱼有时都是这样。他既沉重又深刻。我深信，在柏拉图、皮浪、魔鬼、朱庇特、但丁等一切深沉而深奥的存在的头脑中，在进行深思熟虑时，总会升起某种半可见的蒸汽。 。在写一篇关于永恒的小论文时，我出于好奇在自己面前放了一面镜子；不久之后，我就看到了那里的影子，一种奇怪的感觉在我头顶上空的气氛中蠕动和波动。八月的中午，我在铺着木瓦的薄阁楼里喝了六杯热茶后，陷入沉思，头发始终湿润；这似乎是上述假设的一个额外论据。

And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty, misty monster, to behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his vast, mild head overhung by a canopy of vapour, engendered by his incommunicable contemplations, and that vapour—as you will sometimes see it—glorified by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts. For, d’ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate vapour. And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a heavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny; but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions. Doubts of all things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this combination makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who regards them both with equal eye.
看到他庄严地航行穿过平静的热带海洋，我们对这个强大而迷雾的怪物的自负是多么崇高！他巨大而温和的头顶上笼罩着一层水蒸气，这是他无法言说的沉思所产生的，而那水蒸气——正如你有时会看到的——被彩虹所荣耀，仿佛天堂本身已经在他的思想上盖上了印记。因为，你瞧，彩虹不会出现在晴朗的空气中；彩虹不会出现在晴朗的空气中。它们仅辐射蒸气。于是，在我脑海中那些模糊疑虑的浓雾中，神圣的直觉时不时地射出，用神圣的光芒点燃我的迷雾。为此我感谢上帝；因为所有人都有疑问；许多人否认；但怀疑或否认却很少有直觉。对地上一切事物的怀疑，以及对天上某些事物的直觉；这种结合既不会造就信徒，也不会造就异教徒，而是造就一个以同等眼光看待他们的人。

Chapter 86
第86章

The Tail.
尾巴。

Other poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope, and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights; less celestial, I celebrate a tail.
其他诗人也曾歌颂羚羊柔软的眼睛和永不降落的鸟的可爱羽毛。不太神圣，我庆祝一条尾巴。

Reckoning the largest sized Sperm Whale’s tail to begin at that point of the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprises upon its upper surface alone, an area of at least fifty square feet. The compact round body of its root expands into two broad, firm, flat palms or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less than an inch in thickness. At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly overlap, then sideways recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide vacancy between. In no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely defined than in the crescentic borders of these flukes. At its utmost expansion in the full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed twenty feet across.
考虑到最大尺寸的抹香鲸的尾巴从躯干的那一点开始逐渐变细，大约有一个人的周长，仅在其上表面，其面积就至少有五十平方英尺。其根部紧凑的圆形体扩展为两个宽阔、坚固、扁平的手掌或尾鳍，逐渐变浅，厚度不足一英寸。在胯部或交界处，这些尾鳍稍微重叠，然后像翅膀一样向侧面退去，在它们之间留下一个宽阔的空隙。在所有生物中，没有比这些尾鳍的新月形边界更清晰地界定出美丽的线条了。成年鲸鱼的尾巴在最大程度扩张时，其宽度将大大超过二十英尺。

The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cut into it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:—upper, middle, and lower. The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are long and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running crosswise between the outside layers. This triune structure, as much as anything else, imparts power to the tail. To the student of old Roman walls, the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin course of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful relics of the antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so much to the great strength of the masonry.
整个构件就像是一个由筋腱焊接而成的密集网状床；但切入它，你会发现它由三个不同的层次组成：上层、中层和下层。上下层纤维长且水平；中间一层的那些，非常短，在外层之间交叉延伸。这种三位一体的结构和其他结构一样，赋予尾巴力量。对于古罗马城墙的学生来说，中间层将提供一种奇怪的平行于瓷砖的薄层，总是与那些美妙的古董遗迹中的石头交替，这无疑对砖石的巨大强度做出了很大贡献。

But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough, the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of muscular fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins and running down into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and largely contribute to their might; so that in the tail the confluent measureless force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point. Could annihilation occur to matter, this were the thing to do it.
但是，好像腱尾中巨大的局部力量还不够，整个利维坦都是由肌肉纤维和细丝的经纱和纬纱编织而成，这些纤维和细丝从腰部两侧穿过，不知不觉地向下流入尾鳍。与他们融为一体，并为他们的力量做出很大贡献；因此，整条鲸鱼的巨大力量似乎集中在尾巴上。如果物质毁灭发生的话，这就是要做的事情。

Nor does this—its amazing strength, at all tend to cripple the graceful flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease undulates through a Titanism of power. On the contrary, those motions derive their most appalling beauty from it. Real strength never impairs beauty or harmony, but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly beautiful, strength has much to do with the magic. Take away the tied tendons that all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the naked corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the man, that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch. When Angelo paints even God the Father in human form, mark what robustness is there. And whatever they may reveal of the divine love in the Son, the soft, curled, hermaphroditical Italian pictures, in which his idea has been most successfully embodied; these pictures, so destitute as they are of all brawniness, hint nothing of any power, but the mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance, which on all hands it is conceded, form the peculiar practical virtues of his teachings.
它惊人的力量也不会削弱其动作的优雅弯曲；幼稚的安逸在泰坦的力量中波动。相反，这些动作从中获得了最令人震惊的美感。真正的力量永远不会损害美丽或和谐，但它往往会赋予它；在一切令人惊叹的美丽事物中，力量与魔法有很大关系。去掉赫拉克勒斯雕刻中浑身似乎从大理石中爆裂出来的束缚肌腱，它的魅力就会消失。当虔诚的埃克曼从歌德赤裸的尸体上掀起亚麻布床单时，他被歌德巨大的胸部所震撼，那胸部就像罗马的凯旋门。当安吉洛甚至以人的形式描绘父神时，请注意那里有多么坚固。无论它们如何揭示圣子的神圣之爱，这些柔软、卷曲、雌雄同体的意大利画作，在其中最成功地体现了圣子的思想；这些图画虽然毫无力量，却没有暗示任何力量，而只是消极的、女性化的服从和忍耐，这是所有人都承认的，形成了他的教义中特有的实践美德。

Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that whether wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace. Therein no fairy’s arm can transcend it.
这就是我所研究的器官的微妙弹性，无论是在运动中、在认真中还是在愤怒中使用，无论它处于何种情绪，它的弯曲总是表现出极其优雅的特征。其中任何仙女的手臂都无法超越它。

Five great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin for progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle; Third, in sweeping; Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.
五个伟大的动作是它所特有的。首先，当用作渐进的鳍时；二、在战斗中作为狼牙棒使用时；三、在扫地；第四，在高位尾随；第五，侥幸达到顶峰。

First: Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan’s tail acts in a different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It never wriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To the whale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiled forwards beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monster when furiously swimming. His side-fins only serve to steer by.
第一：利维坦的尾巴处于水平位置，其作用方式与所有其他海洋生物的尾巴不同。它永远不会蠕动。对于人或鱼来说，蠕动是自卑的标志。对于鲸鱼来说，尾巴是唯一的推进装置。在身体下方向前卷曲，然后迅速向后弹起，正是这一点使得怪物在猛烈游泳时产生奇异的冲刺、跳跃动作。他的侧鳍仅用于引导。

Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm whale only fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in his conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. In striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the blow is only inflicted by the recoil. If it be made in the unobstructed air, especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply irresistible. No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your only salvation lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through the opposing water, then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the whale boat, and the elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or a dashed plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is generally the most serious result. These submerged side blows are so often received in the fishery, that they are accounted mere child’s play. Some one strips off a frock, and the hole is stopped.
第二：有点重要的是，虽然一头抹香鲸只用头和下巴与另一头抹香鲸搏斗，但在与人类的冲突中，它主要且轻蔑地使用了自己的尾巴。在攻击一艘船时，他会迅速将尾翼从船上移开，并且仅通过反冲力进行打击。如果它是在无障碍的空气中进行的，特别是当它下降到目标位置时，那么这一击简直是不可抗拒的。人或船的肋骨都无法承受。你唯一的救赎在于逃避它；但是，如果它从侧面穿过相反的水域，那么部分由于捕鲸船的轻微浮力及其材料的弹性，破裂的肋骨或虚线板或两块，侧面的一种缝线，通常是最严重的结果。这些浸入水中的侧击在渔业中经常发生，以至于人们认为它们只是儿戏。有人脱掉一件衣服，洞就被堵住了。

Third: I cannot demonstrate it, but it seems to me, that in the whale the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail; for in this respect there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the daintiness of the elephant’s trunk. This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface of the sea; and if he feel but a sailor’s whisker, woe to that sailor, whiskers and all. What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch! Had this tail any prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of Darmonodes’ elephant that so frequented the flower-market, and with low salutations presented nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their zones. On more accounts than one, a pity it is that the whale does not possess this prehensile virtue in his tail; for I have heard of yet another elephant, that when wounded in the fight, curved round his trunk and extracted the dart.
第三：我无法证明这一点，但在我看来，鲸鱼的触觉集中在尾巴上；因为在这方面，它的美味只有象鼻的美味可比。这种微妙之处主要表现在扫掠的动作上，鲸鱼以一种少女般的温柔，带着某种柔和的缓慢，在海面上从一侧移动到另一侧；如果他只感觉到水手的胡须，那么那个水手、胡须和所有的人就有祸了。那初步的接触是多么温柔啊！如果这条尾巴有任何抓握的能力，我应该立即想起达莫诺德斯的大象，它经常光顾花市，低声向少女献上花束，然后抚摸她们的区域。从多种角度来看，遗憾的是鲸鱼的尾巴不具备这种抓握能力。因为我听说还有一头大象，当它在战斗中受伤时，它会弯曲鼻子并拔出飞镖。

Fourth: Stealing unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the middle of solitary seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence of his dignity, and kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a hearth. But still you see his power in his play. The broad palms of his tail are flirted high into the air; then smiting the surface, the thunderous concussion resounds for miles. You would almost think a great gun had been discharged; and if you noticed the light wreath of vapour from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would think that that was the smoke from the touch-hole.
第四：在荒凉的大海中央想象中的安全中，你会发现它毫无防备地偷袭鲸鱼，因为他的尊严巨大而肥胖，他像小猫一样在海上玩耍，就像在一个壁炉里一样。但你仍然可以在他的比赛中看到他的力量。它尾巴上宽阔的手掌高高地向空中摆动；然后撞击地面，雷鸣般的震荡响彻数英里。你几乎会认为是一门大炮已经开火了。如果你注意到他另一端的气门冒出一圈淡淡的蒸汽，你就会认为那是从点火孔冒出来的烟雾。

Fifth: As in the ordinary floating posture of the leviathan the flukes lie considerably below the level of his back, they are then completely out of sight beneath the surface; but when he is about to plunge into the deeps, his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a moment, till they downwards shoot out of view. Excepting the sublime BREACH—somewhere else to be described—this peaking of the whale’s flukes is perhaps the grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature. Out of the bottomless profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the highest heaven. So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell. But in gazing at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in the Dantean, the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the archangels. Standing at the mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in the east, all heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with peaked flukes. As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of the fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout of all beings. For according to King Juba, the military elephants of antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the profoundest silence.
第五：由于在利维坦的普通漂浮姿势中，尾鳍大大低于其背部水平，因此它们在水面下完全看不见；但当他即将陷入深渊时，他的整个身体至少有三十英尺的尾鳍都被抛在空中，并持续振动片刻，直到它们向下射出视野。除了壮观的“突破”——在其他地方需要描述——鲸鱼尾鳍的这种顶峰也许是所有动画自然界中看到的最壮观的景象。巨大的尾巴似乎从无底深渊中断断续续地抓向最高的天空。因此，在梦中，我曾看到威严的撒旦从波罗的海地狱的火焰中伸出他那饱受折磨的巨大爪子。但看这样的场景，就看你的心情如何了。如果在但丁中，你会想到魔鬼；如果在以赛亚的书中，大天使们。有一次，在日出时，天空和大海都被染成了红色，我站在船的桅顶上，看到东方有一大群鲸鱼，它们全都向着太阳前进，有那么一会儿，它们与尖尾的尾鳍一起振动。在我当时看来，即使在火崇拜者的故乡波斯，也从未见过如此盛大的众神的崇拜体现。正如托勒密·菲洛帕特为非洲象作证一样，我也为鲸鱼作证，宣称他是所有生物中最虔诚的。根据朱巴国王的说法，古代的军象经常在最深沉的寂静中抬起鼻子来迎接早晨。

The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk of the other are concerned, should not tend to place those two opposite organs on an equality, much less the creatures to which they respectively belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier to Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan’s tail, his trunk is but the stalk of a lily. The most direful blow from the elephant’s trunk were as the playful tap of a fan, compared with the measureless crush and crash of the sperm whale’s ponderous flukes, which in repeated instances have one after the other hurled entire boats with all their oars and crews into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his balls.*
本章中鲸鱼和大象之间的偶然比较，就其中一方的尾巴和另一方的鼻子的某些方面而言，不应该倾向于将这两个相反的器官放在平等的地位，更不用说它们各自所属的生物。因为，与利维坦相比，最强大的大象不过是一只小猎犬，同样，与利维坦的尾巴相比，它的鼻子也不过是百合花的茎。大象鼻子发出的最可怕的一击就像一把扇子顽皮地敲打，而抹香鲸沉重的尾翼则产生无限的挤压和撞击，在多次发生的情况下，抹香鲸将整艘船连同所有的桨和船员都扔进海里。空中，就像印度杂耍演员抛球一样。*

*Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale and the elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to the elephant; nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of curious similitude; among these is the spout. It is well known that the elephant will often draw up water or dust in his trunk, and then elevating it, jet it forth in a stream.
*尽管所有关于鲸鱼和大象之间总体体积的比较都是荒谬的，因为在这一点上，大象与鲸鱼的关系就像狗与大象的关系一样；尽管如此，还是有一些奇怪的相似之处。其中包括喷嘴。众所周知，大象经常用鼻子吸起水或灰尘，然后将其举起，喷射成溪流。

The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my inability to express it. At times there are gestures in it, which, though they would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable. In an extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are these mystic gestures, that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free-Mason signs and symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods intelligently conversed with the world. Nor are there wanting other motions of the whale in his general body, full of strangeness, and unaccountable to his most experienced assailant. Dissect him how I may, then, I but go skin deep; I know him not, and never will. But if I know not even the tail of this whale, how understand his head? much more, how comprehend his face, when face he has none? Thou shalt see my back parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not be seen. But I cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he will about his face, I say again he has no face.
我越想到这条强大的尾巴，就越为自己无法表达它而感到遗憾。有时其中有一些手势，虽然它们很适合人类的手，但仍然完全令人费解。在一大群动物中，偶尔会出现这些神秘的手势，以至于我听到猎人宣称它们类似于共济会的标志和符号；鲸鱼确实通过这些方法与世界进行了智能对话。鲸鱼的整个身体也不乏其他动作，充满了奇怪的感觉，而且对他最有经验的袭击者来说是无法解释的。那么，我将如何剖析他，只是肤浅地剖析他；我不认识他，也永远不会认识他。但如果我连这条鲸鱼的尾巴都不知道，怎么了解他的头呢？更何况，当他没有脸的时候，如何理解他的脸呢？你会看到我的背部、我的尾巴，他似乎在说，但我的脸不会被看到。但我无法完全看清他的背部；并暗示他会对他的脸做什么，我再说一遍他没有脸。

Chapter 87
第87章

The Grand Armada.
大无敌舰队。

The long and narrow peninsula of Malacca, extending south-eastward from the territories of Birmah, forms the most southerly point of all Asia. In a continuous line from that peninsula stretch the long islands of Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many others, form a vast mole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with Australia, and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly studded oriental archipelagoes. This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the straits of Sunda and Malacca. By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, vessels bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas.
狭长的马六甲半岛从伯玛地区向东南延伸，形成了亚洲的最南端。从这个半岛开始，苏门答腊岛、爪哇岛、巴利岛和帝汶岛等长岛绵延不绝。它们与许多其他岛屿一起形成了巨大的堤坝，纵向连接亚洲和澳大利亚，并将绵延不绝的印度洋与密布的东方群岛分开。为了方便船只和鲸鱼的通行，这座城墙上开有几个出入口。其中最引人注目的是巽他海峡和马六甲海峡。从西部开往中国的船只主要通过巽他海峡进入中国海域。

Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing midway in that vast rampart of islands, buttressed by that bold green promontory, known to seamen as Java Head; they not a little correspond to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire: and considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels, and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of that oriental sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature, that such treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear the appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping western world. The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied with those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the Mediterranean, the Baltic, and the Propontis. Unlike the Danes, these Orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from the endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuries past, by night and by day, have passed between the islands of Sumatra and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east. But while they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by no means renounce their claim to more solid tribute.
狭窄的巽他海峡将苏门答腊岛与爪哇岛分隔开来。矗立在广阔岛屿的中间，以那片大胆的绿色海角为支撑，海员们称之为爪哇角；它们与通往某个巨大的城墙帝国的中央门户相当相似：考虑到香料、丝绸、珠宝、黄金和象牙的取之不尽的财富，东方海域的数千个岛屿都因这些而变得丰富起来，似乎大自然的一项重要规定是，这些宝藏在这片土地的形成过程中至少应该具有不受西方世界控制的保护的外观，无论效果如何。巽他海峡沿岸没有那些守卫地中海、波罗的海和普罗蓬蒂斯河入口的霸气堡垒。与丹麦人不同的是，这些东方人并不要求无休无止的迎风航行的船只降下顶帆以示敬意，几个世纪以来，这些船只日夜不分昼夜地在苏门答腊岛和爪哇岛之间穿行，满载着货物。东方最昂贵的货物。但是，尽管他们自由地放弃了这样的仪式，但他们绝不放弃对更可靠的贡品的要求。

Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among the low shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the vessels sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at the point of their spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they have received at the hands of European cruisers, the audacity of these corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at the present day, we occasionally hear of English and American vessels, which, in those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.
马来人的海盗潜伏在苏门答腊岛低矮的海湾和小岛之间，他们突然袭击了穿过海峡的船只，用长矛猛烈地索取贡品。尽管他们屡次受到欧洲巡洋舰的血腥惩罚，但这些海盗的大胆行为最近受到了一定程度的压制。然而，即使在今天，我们偶尔也会听说英国和美国的船只在这些水域遭到无情的登上和掠夺。

With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these straits; Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and thence, cruising northwards, over waters known to be frequented here and there by the Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, and gain the far coast of Japan, in time for the great whaling season there. By these means, the circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of the world, previous to descending upon the Line in the Pacific; where Ahab, though everywhere else foiled in his pursuit, firmly counted upon giving battle to Moby Dick, in the sea he was most known to frequent; and at a season when he might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.
佩阔德号现在正吹着和蔼清新的风，靠近这些海峡。亚哈打算穿过它们进入爪哇海，然后向北航行，越过抹香鲸经常出没的水域，横扫菲律宾群岛的近海，到达日本的远海岸，及时赶上那里有很棒的捕鲸季节。通过这些方式，环绕航行的“裴阔德”号将横扫世界上几乎所有已知的抹香鲸巡航地，然后降落在太平洋上的航线上；亚哈尽管在其他地方都未能追击，但仍坚定地指望能与莫比·迪克展开战斗，在他最常去的海域。而且在一个最有理由被认为是他出没的季节。

But how now? in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land? does his crew drink air? Surely, he will stop for water. Nay. For a long time, now, the circus-running sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs no sustenance but what’s in himself. So Ahab. Mark this, too, in the whaler. While other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff, to be transferred to foreign wharves; the world-wandering whale-ship carries no cargo but herself and crew, their weapons and their wants. She has a whole lake’s contents bottled in her ample hold. She is ballasted with utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead and kentledge. She carries years’ water in her. Clear old prime Nantucket water; which, when three years afloat, the Nantucketer, in the Pacific, prefers to drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks, from the Peruvian or Indian streams. Hence it is, that, while other ships may have gone to China from New York, and back again, touching at a score of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not have sighted one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating seamen like themselves. So that did you carry them the news that another flood had come; they would only answer—‘Well, boys, here’s the ark!’
但现在怎么样？在这个分区任务中，亚哈没有接触任何土地吗？他的船员喝空气吗？当然，他会停下来喝水。不。很长一段时间以来，马戏团奔跑的太阳一直在他火热的光环内奔跑，除了他自己之外，不需要任何营养。所以亚哈。在捕鲸船上也标记这一点。而其他船体则装载着外星物品，准备转移到外国码头；这艘环游世界的捕鲸船除了她自己和船员、他们的武器和他们的需求外，不载任何货物。她宽敞的货舱里装满了整个湖的东西。她被公用事业所压垮；不完全是无法使用的猪铅和肯特里奇。她体内携带着多年的水。清澈的旧优质楠塔基特水；当在太平洋上漂浮三年时，楠塔基特号更喜欢在微咸的液体之前饮用，但昨天从秘鲁或印度的溪流中用木桶漂流。因此，虽然其他船只可能从纽约前往中国，然后又返回，停靠了二十多个港口，但捕鲸船在整个这段时间内可能没有看到一粒土壤；她的船员们没有看到任何人，除了像他们一样的漂浮海员。所以你给他们带来了另一场洪水来袭的消息；他们只会回答——“好吧，孩子们，这是方舟！”

Now, as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of Java, in the near vicinity of the Straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of the ground, roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an excellent spot for cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more and more upon Java Head, the look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and admonished to keep wide awake. But though the green palmy cliffs of the land soon loomed on the starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet not a single jet was descried. Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when the customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle of singular magnificence saluted us.
现在，许多抹香鲸在爪哇西海岸、巽他海峡附近被捕获；事实上，由于大部分地面、环岛被渔民普遍认为是巡航的绝佳地点；因此，随着裴阔德号越来越靠近爪哇角，瞭望员们不断地受到欢迎，并被警告要保持高度警惕。然而，虽然绿色的棕榈树悬崖很快就出现在右舷船头，新鲜的肉桂味在空气中被愉快地嗅到，但没有看到一架喷气式飞机。几乎放弃了参加附近任何游戏的所有想法，船已经快要进入海峡了，这时从高处传来了惯常的欢呼声，不久，我们就看到了奇异的壮丽景象。

But here be it premised, that owing to the unwearied activity with which of late they have been hunted over all four oceans, the Sperm Whales, instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached companies, as in former times, are now frequently met with in extensive herds, sometimes embracing so great a multitude, that it would almost seem as if numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and covenant for mutual assistance and protection. To this aggregation of the Sperm Whale into such immense caravans, may be imputed the circumstance that even in the best cruising grounds, you may now sometimes sail for weeks and months together, without being greeted by a single spout; and then be suddenly saluted by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands.
但这里有一个前提，由于最近在四大洋上进行的不知疲倦的捕猎活动，抹香鲸不再像以前那样几乎总是以小型独立的队伍航行，现在经常在大量的兽群，有时拥抱着如此众多的人群，以至于看起来好像其中许多国家都宣誓了庄严的联盟和盟约，以相互援助和保护。抹香鲸聚集成如此巨大的商队，可能会造成这样的情况：即使在最好的巡航场地，你现在有时也可能一起航行数周甚至数月，而没有受到任何喷水的欢迎；然后突然受到成千上万的人的敬礼。

Broad on both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and forming a great semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon, a continuous chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the noon-day air. Unlike the straight perpendicular twin-jets of the Right Whale, which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like the cleft drooping boughs of a willow, the single forward-slanting spout of the Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist, continually rising and falling away to leeward.
两头鲸鱼喷气机的宽度在大约两三英里的距离处，形成一个大半圆，包围了一半的水平地平线，一连串的鲸鱼喷气机在正午的空气中向上飞舞，闪闪发光。与右鲸的笔直垂直的双喷流不同，右鲸的喷流在顶部分开，分成两根树枝，就像柳树的裂开下垂的树枝一样，抹香鲸的单个向前倾斜的喷流呈现出浓密的卷曲的白色灌木丛。雾气不断升起，又飘向下风方向。

Seen from the Pequod’s deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of the sea, this host of vapoury spouts, individually curling up into the air, and beheld through a blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed like the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis, descried of a balmy autumnal morning, by some horseman on a height.
那么，从裴阔德号的甲板上看，当她将升上大海的一座高山时，这群蒸汽喷口，各自卷曲到空中，透过蓝色薄雾的混合气氛，看起来像成千上万个欢快的烟囱。某个人口稠密的大都市，被某个高处的骑手描述为一个温暖的秋日早晨。

As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in the mountains, accelerate their march, all eagerness to place that perilous passage in their rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the plain; even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward through the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle, and swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.
当行军的军队接近山区中的一个不友好的隘口时，加速他们的行军，所有渴望将危险的通道置于他们的后方，并再次在相对安全的平原上扩张；即便如此，这支庞大的鲸鱼舰队现在似乎正在穿过海峡。逐渐收缩半圆的翅膀，并在一个坚固但仍呈新月形的中心继续游动。

Crowding all sail the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers handling their weapons, and loudly cheering from the heads of their yet suspended boats. If the wind only held, little doubt had they, that chased through these Straits of Sunda, the vast host would only deploy into the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their number. And who could tell whether, in that congregated caravan, Moby Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the worshipped white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese! So with stun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these leviathans before us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard, loudly directing attention to something in our wake.
裴廓德号挤满了所有的帆，紧追在后。标枪手们拿着武器，悬在空中的船头大声欢呼。如果风势继续，毫无疑问，他们穿过巽他海峡追击，那么大军只会部署到东方海域，目睹不少人被俘。谁知道在那群聚集的商队中，莫比·迪克本人是否会暂时游泳，就像暹罗加冕游行中受人崇拜的白象一样！就这样，我们把眩晕帆叠起来，继续航行，驱赶着我们前面的这些庞然大物。突然，塔什特戈的声音响起，大声地把注意力转移到我们身后的某件事上。

Corresponding to the crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear. It seemed formed of detached white vapours, rising and falling something like the spouts of the whales; only they did not so completely come and go; for they constantly hovered, without finally disappearing. Levelling his glass at this sight, Ahab quickly revolved in his pivot-hole, crying, ‘Aloft there, and rig whips and buckets to wet the sails;—Malays, sir, and after us!’
与我们货车上的新月相对应，我们在后面看到了另一个新月。它似乎是由分离的白色蒸气形成的，像鲸鱼的喷水一样上升和下降。只是它们没有那么彻底地来来去去；因为它们不断地盘旋，最终没有消失。看到这一幕，亚哈把望远镜调平，迅速在枢轴孔中旋转，喊道：“在高处，拉起鞭子和水桶来打湿船帆；——马来人，先生，在我们后面！”

As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should fairly have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot pursuit, to make up for their over-cautious delay. But when the swift Pequod, with a fresh leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how very kind of these tawny philanthropists to assist in speeding her on to her own chosen pursuit,—mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that they were. As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his forward turn beholding the monsters he chased, and in the after one the bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some such fancy as the above seemed his. And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him that through that gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their curses;—when all these conceits had passed through his brain, Ahab’s brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like the black sand beach after some stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag the firm thing from its place.
仿佛在海岬后面潜伏了太久，直到裴廓德号完全进入海峡，这些无赖的亚洲人现在正在紧追不舍，以弥补他们过于谨慎的延误。但是，当迅捷的“裴阔德”号带着清新的主导风，正在紧追不舍时；这些黄褐色的慈善家们真是太好了，他们帮助她加快了自己选择的追求——对她来说，他们只不过是马鞭和马鞭。亚哈就像腋下夹着玻璃一样，在甲板上来回踱步。在他向前转身时，他看到了他所追赶的怪物，而在后面一转身时，他看到了嗜血的海盗在追赶他。像上面这样的一些幻想似乎是他的。当他瞥见那条船正在其中航行的水洼的绿色墙壁时，他想到，通过那扇门，就是通往他复仇的道路，并且看到，他现在是如何通过同一扇门，既追逐又被追赶。被追至死亡；不仅如此，一群无情的狂野海盗和毫无人性的无神论恶魔还用诅咒为他喝彩；——当所有这些自负都在他的脑海中闪过时，亚哈的额头变得憔悴、棱角分明，就像后来的黑沙滩一样。一些暴风雨的浪潮一直在啃咬它，却无法将坚硬的东西从它的位置上拖走。

But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and when, after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the Pequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra side, emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond; then, the harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been gaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had so victoriously gained upon the Malays. But still driving on in the wake of the whales, at length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship neared them; and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the boats. But no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of the Sperm Whale, become notified of the three keels that were after them,—though as yet a mile in their rear,—than they rallied again, and forming in close ranks and battalions, so that their spouts all looked like flashing lines of stacked bayonets, moved on with redoubled velocity.
但这样的想法很少让那些鲁莽的船员感到困扰。当海盗们不断地在船尾不断地投降之后，“裴阔德”号终于驶过苏门答腊岛一侧鲜艳的绿色凤头鹦鹉角，最终出现在远处广阔的水域上。然后，标枪手们似乎更多地为迅捷鲸鱼逼近这艘船而感到悲伤，而不是为这艘船如此胜利地逼近马来人而感到高兴。但他们仍然在鲸鱼的尾迹中继续前行，最后他们似乎放慢了速度。渐渐地，船靠近了他们。现在风已经停了，消息传到船上。但是，鲸群一听到抹香鲸的某种奇妙的本能，就发现三艘龙骨在追赶它们，尽管它们还落后一英里，它们就再次集结起来，排成紧密的队伍。各营以双倍的速度前进，他们的喷口看起来就像一排排闪烁的刺刀。

Stripped to our shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash, and after several hours’ pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase, when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating token that they were now at last under the influence of that strange perplexity of inert irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive it in the whale, they say he is gallied. The compact martial columns in which they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming, were now broken up in one measureless rout; and like King Porus’ elephants in the Indian battle with Alexander, they seemed going mad with consternation. In all directions expanding in vast irregular circles, and aimlessly swimming hither and thither, by their short thick spoutings, they plainly betrayed their distraction of panic. This was still more strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely paralysed as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on the sea. Had these Leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced such excessive dismay. But this occasional timidity is characteristic of almost all herding creatures. Though banding together in tens of thousands, the lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a solitary horseman. Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded together in the sheepfold of a theatre’s pit, they will, at the slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding, trampling, jamming, and remorselessly dashing each other to death. Best, therefore, withhold any amazement at the strangely gallied whales before us, for there is no folly of the beasts of the earth which is not infinitely outdone by the madness of men.
我们脱光了衬衫和裤子，跳向白色的灰烬，经过几个小时的拉扯，我们几乎准备放弃追逐，这时鲸鱼之间普遍暂停的骚动表明它们现在终于受到了当渔夫们在鲸鱼身上发现这种奇怪的、迟钝的、优柔寡断的困惑时，他们说他受到了侮辱。迄今为止，他们一直在其中快速稳定地游动的紧凑的军事纵队，现在被一场无休无止的溃败所瓦解。就像波鲁斯国王在印第安人与亚历山大的战斗中的大象一样，它们似乎因惊愕而发疯。它们向四面八方展开，形成巨大的不规则圆圈，漫无目的地游来游去，它们短而粗的喷流，显然暴露了它们分散了恐慌的注意力。更奇怪的是，他们的人表现得更加奇怪，他们完全瘫痪了，无助地漂浮在海面上，就像被水淹没的拆船一样。如果这些利维坦只是一群普通的羊，被三只凶猛的狼在牧场上追赶，他们不可能表现出如此过度的沮丧。但这种偶尔的胆怯是几乎所有牧群动物的特征。尽管数以万计的西部狮鬃水牛聚集在一起，但它们还是在孤独的骑手面前逃走了。也让所有的人类都见证吧，当他们被聚集在剧院坑坑洼洼的羊圈里时，只要有一点火警，他们就会狼狈地冲向出口，拥挤、践踏、堵塞、无情地互相冲撞。死亡。因此，最好不要对我们面前奇特的鲸鱼感到惊讶，因为地球上所有野兽的愚蠢行为都无法被人类的疯狂所超越。

Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion, yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor retreated, but collectively remained in one place. As is customary in those cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal. In about three minutes’ time, Queequeg’s harpoon was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray in our faces, and then running away with us like light, steered straight for the heart of the herd. Though such a movement on the part of the whale struck under such circumstances, is in no wise unprecedented; and indeed is almost always more or less anticipated; yet does it present one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery. For as the swift monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal, you bid adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb.
虽然许多鲸鱼如前所述，动作剧烈，但值得注意的是，整个鲸群既不前进也不后退，而是集体呆在一个地方。按照这些情况的惯例，两艘船立即分开，每艘船都驶向浅滩外围的一只孤独的鲸鱼。大约三分钟后，奎魁格的鱼叉被扔了出去；被击中的鱼将水花溅到我们脸上，然后像光一样带着我们逃跑，直奔鱼群的中心。尽管鲸鱼在这种情况下做出这样的举动，但这绝不是史无前例的。事实上，几乎总是或多或少地在预料之中；然而，它是否代表了渔业最危险的变迁之一。因为当敏捷的怪物将你拖入疯狂的浅滩越来越深时，你就告别了谨慎的生活，只存在于疯狂的悸动中。

As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power of speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as we thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was like a ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer through their complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what moment it may be locked in and crushed.
鲸鱼又瞎又聋，猛地向前猛冲，仿佛凭借纯粹的速度力量摆脱了缠在身上的铁水蛭；当我们在海中撕开一条白色的伤口时，我们飞行时四面八方都受到了在我们周围来回冲撞的疯狂生物的威胁；我们的小船就像暴风雨中被冰岛围困的船一样，努力在复杂的航道和海峡中航行，不知道什么时候它可能会被困住并被压碎。

But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off from this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging away from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all the time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of our way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time to make long ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended to the shouting part of the business. ‘Out of the way, Commodore!’ cried one, to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface, and for an instant threatened to swamp us. ‘Hard down with your tail, there!’ cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed calmly cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity.
但魁魁格一点也不畏惧，勇敢地引导着我们。现在提前避开这个怪物，直接穿过我们的路线；现在，它的巨大尾鳍悬挂在头顶上，而现在，斯塔巴克一直站在船头，手里拿着长矛，用短箭刺破我们能触及的任何鲸鱼，因为没有时间长的。桨手们也没有闲着，尽管他们惯常的职责现在已经完全免除了。他们主要负责生意中的喊叫部分。 “让开，准将！”其中一人对着一头巨大的单峰骆驼喊道，它的身体突然浮出水面，一瞬间威胁要淹没我们。 “用力压住你的尾巴，那里！”第二个对另一个喊道，靠近我们的船舷，它似乎在用自己扇子般的四肢平静地冷却自己。

All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, originally invented by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs. Two thick squares of wood of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they cross each other’s grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is then attached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon. It is chiefly among gallied whales that this drugg is used. For then, more whales are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time. But sperm whales are not every day encountered; while you may, then, you must kill all you can. And if you cannot kill them all at once, you must wing them, so that they can be afterwards killed at your leisure. Hence it is, that at times like these the drugg, comes into requisition. Our boat was furnished with three of them. The first and second were successfully darted, and we saw the whales staggeringly running off, fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the towing drugg. They were cramped like malefactors with the chain and ball. But upon flinging the third, in the act of tossing overboard the clumsy wooden block, it caught under one of the seats of the boat, and in an instant tore it out and carried it away, dropping the oarsman in the boat’s bottom as the seat slid from under him. On both sides the sea came in at the wounded planks, but we stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so stopped the leaks for the time.
所有捕鲸船都带有某些奇怪的装置，最初是由楠塔基特印第安人发明的，称为药物。将两块大小相同的厚木块紧紧地握在一起，使它们的纹理彼此成直角。然后将一根相当长的线连接到该块的中间，并将线的另一端打圈，很快就可以将其固定在鱼叉上。这种药物主要用于有斑鲸鱼。这样一来，靠近你的鲸鱼数量就多于你一次可以追赶的数量。但抹香鲸并非每天都会遇到。那么，尽管你可以，但你必须杀掉所有能杀的人。如果你不能一次杀死他们，你就必须给他们翅膀，这样你就可以在闲暇时杀死他们。因此，在这样的时候，毒品就会受到需要。我们的船配备了其中三个。第一个和第二个都成功地被射出，我们看到鲸鱼被拖曳药物的巨大侧向阻力束缚住，摇摇晃晃地跑开。他们像罪犯一样被铁链和球困住了。但是，在扔出第三个木块时，在将笨重的木块扔到船外的过程中，它卡在了船的一个座位下面，并立即将其撕了出来并把它带走了，桨手掉进了船底作为座位从他身下滑落。海水从两边的受伤木板处涌进来，但我们塞了两三个抽屉和衬衫，暂时堵住了漏水。

It had been next to impossible to dart these drugged-harpoons, were it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale’s way greatly diminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further from the circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning. So that when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting momentum, we glided between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal, as if from some mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake. Here the storms in the roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard but not felt. In this central expanse the sea presented that smooth satin-like surface, called a sleek, produced by the subtle moisture thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods. Yes, we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every commotion. And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of the outer concentric circles, and saw successive pods of whales, eight or ten in each, swiftly going round and round, like multiplied spans of horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder to shoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might easily have over-arched the middle ones, and so have gone round on their backs. Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing whales, more immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of escape was at present afforded us. We must watch for a breach in the living wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only admitted us in order to shut us up. Keeping at the centre of the lake, we were occasionally visited by small tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host.
要不是当我们进入鱼群时，我们的鲸鱼的活动范围就大大缩小了，用这些涂了药的鱼叉来投掷几乎是不可能的。此外，当我们距离骚乱的范围越来越远时，可怕的混乱似乎正在减弱。于是，当鱼叉终于猛地抽出，拖曳的鲸鱼侧身消失了。然后，随着他分开的势头逐渐减弱，我们在两条鲸鱼之间滑行到浅滩的最深处，仿佛我们从山洪流中滑入了宁静的山谷湖泊。在这里，最外层鲸鱼之间咆哮的峡谷中的风暴，人们可以听到，但感受不到。在这片中央广阔的海域中，海水呈现出光滑如缎子般的表面，称为光滑面，是由鲸鱼在安静的心情下散发出的微妙水分所产生的。是的，我们现在正处于一种令人着迷的平静之中，他们说这种平静潜伏在每一次骚动的核心之中。仍然在心烦意乱的距离中，我们看到了外围同心圆的骚动，并看到了连续的鲸鱼群，每个鲸鱼群有八到十只，快速地一圈又一圈，就像环中成倍增加的马匹一样；肩并肩的距离如此之近，以至于泰坦尼克号马戏团的骑手很容易就会拱过中间的人，从而在他们的背上绕来绕去。由于休息的鲸鱼群密度很大，更直接地围绕着鲸群的海湾轴线，目前我们没有任何逃脱的机会。我们必须留意包围我们的生命之墙的缺口；这堵墙只允许我们进入，以便让我们闭嘴。待在湖中央，偶尔会有驯服的小牛和小牛来拜访我们。这个被击溃的东道国的妇女和儿童。

Now, inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving outer circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in any one of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by the whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three square miles. At any rate—though indeed such a test at such a time might be deceptive—spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that seemed playing up almost from the rim of the horizon. I mention this circumstance, because, as if the cows and calves had been purposely locked up in this innermost fold; and as if the wide extent of the herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise cause of its stopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and every way innocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these smaller whales—now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the lake—evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at. Like household dogs they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, and touching them; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly domesticated them. Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratched their backs with his lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the time refrained from darting it.
现在，包括旋转的外圈之间偶尔存在的宽间隔，以及任何一个圈中各个吊舱之间的空间，在这个时刻，被全体群众包围的整个区域必须包含至少两个或三平方英里。无论如何——尽管在这样的时间进行这样的测试确实可能具有欺骗性——我们可能会在我们的低船上发现喷水，这些喷水似乎几乎从地平线的边缘升起。我提到这种情况，是因为，好像牛和小牛是故意被锁在这个最里面的褶皱里的；似乎到目前为止，牛群的范围之广使他们无法了解其停止的确切原因；或者，可能是因为太年轻、不懂世故、天真无知、缺乏经验；不管怎样，这些较小的鲸鱼——时不时地从湖边探访我们平静的小船——表现出一种奇妙的无畏和自信，或者表现出一种令人着迷的恐慌，让人无法不惊叹。它们就像家养的狗一样，在我们周围嗅来嗅去，一直到我们的舷缘，并触摸我们。直到似乎有某种咒语突然驯化了它们。魁魁格拍拍他们的额头；斯塔巴克用长矛划伤了他们的后背。但由于担心后果，暂时没有放手。

But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side. For, suspended in those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the whales, and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to become mothers. The lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth exceedingly transparent; and as human infants while suckling will calmly and fixedly gaze away from the breast, as if leading two different lives at the time; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment, be still spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence;—even so did the young of these whales seem looking up towards us, but not at us, as if we were but a bit of Gulfweed in their new-born sight. Floating on their sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us. One of these little infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a day old, might have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six feet in girth. He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final spring, the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar’s bow. The delicate side-fins, and the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the plaited crumpled appearance of a baby’s ears newly arrived from foreign parts.
但当我们从侧面凝视时，在这个奇妙的世界之下，另一个更陌生的世界映入我们的眼帘。因为，在那些水汪汪的穹顶里，漂浮着鲸鱼哺乳期母亲的身影，而那些体型巨大的鲸鱼似乎很快就会成为母亲。正如我所暗示的，这个湖的深度相当深，而且非常透明。而人类婴儿在吃奶时，会平静而定定地把视线从乳房上移开，仿佛此时过着两种不同的生活。在汲取凡人营养的同时，仍然在精神上享受一些超凡脱俗的回忆；即使如此，这些鲸鱼的幼崽似乎抬头看着我们，但不是看着我们，就好像我们只是新生的海湾草中的一小部分一样。视线。妈妈们侧身漂浮着，似乎也在静静地看着我们。这些小婴儿中的一个，从某些奇怪的迹象来看，似乎还不到一天大，可能身长约十四英尺，周长约六英尺。他有点活泼。尽管到目前为止，他的身体似乎还没有从它最近在母亲手提袋中占据的令人讨厌的位置中恢复过来。未出生的鲸鱼像鞑靼人的弓一样弯着身子，尾对头，为最后的春天做好了准备。精致的侧鳍和尾鳍的手掌，仍然新鲜地保留着刚从异国来到的婴儿耳朵的辫子皱巴巴的样子。

‘Line! line!’ cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; ‘him fast! him fast!—Who line him! Who struck?—Two whale; one big, one little!’
'线！排队！”魁奎格一边喊一边看着舷缘。 ‘他快点！他快点！——谁排他！谁袭击了？——两条鲸鱼；一大一小！’

‘What ails ye, man?’ cried Starbuck.
“你怎么了，伙计？”斯塔巴克喊道。

‘Look-e here,’ said Queequeg, pointing down.
“看这里，”魁魁格指着下方说道。

As when the stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of fathoms of rope; as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and shows the slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the air; so now, Starbuck saw long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame Leviathan, by which the young cub seemed still tethered to its dam. Not seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase, this natural line, with the maternal end loose, becomes entangled with the hempen one, so that the cub is thereby trapped. Some of the subtlest secrets of the seas seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond. We saw young Leviathan amours in the deep.*
就像那头受灾的鲸鱼一样，它从浴缸里拉出了数百英寻的绳索；深沉的鸣响之后，他再次浮起，展现出松弛的卷线轻快地上升，盘旋向空中；所以现在，斯塔巴克看到了利维坦夫人的长长的脐带，幼崽似乎仍然被拴在它的母亲身上。在激烈的追逐过程中，这种自然的线常常会因母亲的一端松动而与麻线缠在一起，从而使幼崽被困住。海洋的一些最微妙的秘密似乎在这个迷人的池塘里向我们透露。我们在深海中看到了年轻的利维坦铠甲。*

*The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but unlike most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a gestation which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but one at a time; though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and Jacob:—a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously situated, one on each side of the anus; but the breasts themselves extend upwards from that. When by chance these precious parts in a nursing whale are cut by the hunter’s lance, the mother’s pouring milk and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milk is very sweet and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do well with strawberries. When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whales salute MORE HOMINUM.
*抹香鲸与所有其他利维坦物种一样，但与大多数其他鱼类不同，它在所有季节都无差别地繁殖；妊娠期可能在九个月时结束，一次只生产一个；尽管在一些已知的例子中，生下了以扫和雅各：——两个奶头在哺乳时提供了一种意外情况，奶头位置奇特，肛门两侧各一个；但乳房本身却从那里向上延伸。当哺乳鲸身上的这些珍贵部位被猎人的长矛割断时，鲸鱼母亲的乳汁和血液就会使大海变色，成为鱼竿的颜色。牛奶很甜很浓郁；人类已经尝过；它可能适合草莓。当鲸鱼充满相互尊重时，就会向“更多的人”致敬。

And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations and affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely revelled in dalliance and delight. But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic of my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down and deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.
因此，尽管周围环绕着一圈又一圈的惊愕和恐惧，这些位于中心的难以捉摸的生物却自由而无畏地沉迷于一切和平的关注之中；是的，平静地陶醉在调情和欢乐之中。但即便如此，在我存在的龙卷风大西洋中，我自己仍然永远处于沉默的平静中；虽然沉重的行星不断地悲伤围绕着我旋转，但在内心深处和内陆深处，我仍然沐浴在永恒的温和的喜悦中。

Meanwhile, as we thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic spectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats, still engaged in drugging the whales on the frontier of the host; or possibly carrying on the war within the first circle, where abundance of room and some convenient retreats were afforded them. But the sight of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and fro across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our eyes. It is sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or maiming his gigantic tail-tendon. It is done by darting a short-handled cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again. A whale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not effectually, as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying along with him half of the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony of the wound, he was now dashing among the revolving circles like the lone mounted desperado Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying dismay wherever he went.
与此同时，当我们如此着迷时，远处偶尔突然出现的疯狂景象表明了其他船只的活动，它们仍在东道主的边境上给鲸鱼下药。或者可能在第一圈内进行战争，那里有充足的空间和一些方便的撤退空间。但那些愤怒的、被下了药的鲸鱼时不时盲目地在圆圈中来回窜动的景象，与我们最终看到的相比根本算不了什么。有时，当鲸鱼比平常更加强大和警觉时，人们会习惯性地通过撕裂或残伤它巨大的尾腱来试图削弱它的腿筋。这是通过将短柄铲子扔出去来完成的，短柄铲子上附有一根绳子，可以将其再次拉回来。一条鲸鱼在这一部分受伤（正如我们后来了解到的那样），但看起来并没有有效地脱离了船，并带走了一半的鱼叉线；在伤口的极度痛苦中，他现在像萨拉托加战役中孤独的骑马亡命之徒阿诺德一样在旋转的圆圈中冲刺，所到之处都带着沮丧。

But agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling spectacle enough, any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to inspire the rest of the herd, was owing to a cause which at first the intervening distance obscured from us. But at length we perceived that by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery, this whale had become entangled in the harpoon-line that he towed; he had also run away with the cutting-spade in him; and while the free end of the rope attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in the coils of the harpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had worked loose from his flesh. So that tormented to madness, he was now churning through the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and tossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own comrades.
但这头鲸鱼的伤口令人痛苦，无论如何，这也是一个令人震惊的景象。然而，他似乎让其余的牛群感到特别的恐惧，这是由于我们一开始因为距离太远而看不到的原因。但最终我们发现，由于渔业中发生的一件难以想象的事故，这头鲸鱼被他拖着的鱼叉线缠住了；他也带着砍刀逃跑了。虽然连在武器上的绳子的自由端永久地卡在了他尾巴周围的鱼叉线线圈中，但切割铲本身却从他的肉上松开了。于是，他被折磨得发疯，现在在水中翻腾，用灵活的尾巴猛烈地挥舞，把锋利的铲子扔到身上，伤害和谋杀了自己的战友。

This terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their stationary fright. First, the whales forming the margin of our lake began to crowd a little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted by half spent billows from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to heave and swell; the submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished; in more and more contracting orbits the whales in the more central circles began to swim in thickening clusters. Yes, the long calm was departing. A low advancing hum was soon heard; and then like to the tumultuous masses of block-ice when the great river Hudson breaks up in Spring, the entire host of whales came tumbling upon their inner centre, as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain. Instantly Starbuck and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern.
这个可怕的物体似乎让整个牛群从静止的恐惧中恢复过来。首先，我们湖边的鲸鱼开始稍微拥挤起来，互相翻滚，仿佛被远处的半干巨浪托起；然后湖水开始微弱地起伏和膨胀。潜艇的洞房和育婴室消失了；在越来越收缩的轨道上，更中心的圈子里的鲸鱼开始以越来越稠密的集群形式游动。是的，长久以来的平静正在消失。很快就听到了低沉的嗡嗡声。然后，就像哈德逊河在春天破裂时汹涌的冰块一样，整群鲸鱼翻滚到它们的内部中心，仿佛将自己堆积在一座普通的山上。星巴克和魁魁格立刻换了位置；星巴克占据船尾。

‘Oars! Oars!’ he intensely whispered, seizing the helm—‘gripe your oars, and clutch your souls, now! My God, men, stand by! Shove him off, you Queequeg—the whale there!—prick him!—hit him! Stand up—stand up, and stay so! Spring, men—pull, men; never mind their backs—scrape them!—scrape away!’
‘桨！桨！”他紧紧地低声说道，抓住了舵——“抓紧你的桨，抓住你的灵魂，现在！我的上帝，男人们，站稳脚跟！推开他，你魁魁格——那里的鲸鱼！——刺他！——打他！站起来——站起来，并保持这样！春天，男人们——拉，男人们；别管他们的背——刮他们！——刮走！”

The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths. But by desperate endeavor we at last shot into a temporary opening; then giving way rapidly, and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet. After many similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last swiftly glided into what had just been one of the outer circles, but now crossed by random whales, all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation was cheaply purchased by the loss of Queequeg’s hat, who, while standing in the bows to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from his head by the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad flukes close by.
船现在几乎挤在两艘巨大的黑色船体之间，在它们长长的船身之间留下了一条狭窄的达达尼尔海峡。但经过拼命的努力，我们终于找到了一个临时的突破口。然后迅速让路，同时认真寻找另一个出路。经过多次类似的惊险逃脱后，我们终于迅速滑入了刚才的外圈之一，但现在鲸鱼随机穿过，所有鲸鱼都猛烈地涌向一个中心。这次幸运的拯救是通过失去奎奎格的帽子而廉价换来的，当奎奎格站在船头刺逃的鲸鱼时，他的帽子被一对宽大的尾鳍突然抛起产生的空气涡流从头上刮了下来。靠近。

Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soon resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their onward flight with augmented fleetness. Further pursuit was useless; but the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales might be dropped astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask had killed and waifed. The waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of which are carried by every boat; and which, when additional game is at hand, are inserted upright into the floating body of a dead whale, both to mark its place on the sea, and also as token of prior possession, should the boats of any other ship draw near.
尽管现在的普遍骚动是喧闹无序的，但它很快就变成了一场似乎有系统的运动。因为它们最终聚集成一个密集的身体，然后以更快的速度重新开始飞行。再追也没用。但船只仍然在他们身后徘徊，收集可能落在船尾的被麻醉的鲸鱼，同样也保护弗拉斯克杀死并抛弃的鲸鱼。流浪者是一根三角旗，每艘船都携带两到三根。当有更多的游戏发生时，它们会被直立插入死鲸的漂浮身体中，既可以标记它在海上的位置，也可以作为先前拥有的象征，以防任何其他船只靠近。

The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious saying in the Fishery,—the more whales the less fish. Of all the drugged whales only one was captured. The rest contrived to escape for the time, but only to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other craft than the Pequod.
这种下降的结果在某种程度上说明了渔业中那句睿智的说法：鲸鱼越多，鱼越少。在所有被麻醉的鲸鱼中，只有一头被捕获。其余的人暂时设法逃脱，但正如下文所见，却被“裴廓德”号以外的其他船只带走。

Chapter 88
第88章

Schools and Schoolmasters.
学校和校长。

The previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm Whales, and there was also then given the probable cause inducing those vast aggregations.
前一章描述了巨大的抹香鲸群体，然后还给出了引发这些巨大聚集的可能原因。

Now, though such great bodies are at times encountered, yet, as must have been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each. Such bands are known as schools. They generally are of two sorts; those composed almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young vigorous males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.
现在，虽然有时会遇到如此巨大的尸体，但是，正如必须看到的那样，即使在今天，偶尔也会观察到小型独立的乐队，每个乐队包含二十到五十个人。这些乐队被称为学校。它们通常有两种类型：那些几乎完全由雌性组成，而那些则只聚集年轻、精力充沛的雄性，或人们所熟悉的公牛。

In cavalier attendance upon the school of females, you invariably see a male of full grown magnitude, but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces his gallantry by falling in the rear and covering the flight of his ladies. In truth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming about over the watery world, surroundingly accompanied by all the solaces and endearments of the harem. The contrast between this Ottoman and his concubines is striking; because, while he is always of the largest leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full growth, are not more than one-third of the bulk of an average-sized male. They are comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a dozen yards round the waist. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the whole they are hereditarily entitled to EMBONPOINT.
在傲慢地参加女性学校的活动中，你总是会看到一个已经成年的男性，但并不老；一旦有任何警报，他就会落在后面，掩护他的女士们逃跑，以显示他的英勇。事实上，这位绅士是一位奢华的奥斯曼帝国，在水世界里畅游，周围有后宫的所有安慰和爱意。这个奥斯曼帝国和他的妃嫔之间的对比是惊人的。因为，虽然雄性总是拥有最大的庞然大物，但雌性即使在完全发育时，也不超过平均体型雄性体积的三分之一。事实上，它们相对来说比较脆弱。我敢说，腰围不超过六码。尽管如此，不可否认的是，总的来说，他们继承了 EMBONPOINT 的权利。

It is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent ramblings. Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely search of variety. You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower of the Equatorial feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from spending the summer in the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all unpleasant weariness and warmth. By the time they have lounged up and down the promenade of the Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental waters in anticipation of the cool season there, and so evade the other excessive temperature of the year.
看着这个后宫和它的主子懒洋洋地胡言乱语，真是令人好奇。就像时尚人士一样，他们永远在悠闲地寻找变化。你会在赤道觅食季节盛开的时候在线上与它们相遇，也许是刚刚从北海度过夏天回来，这样就可以消除夏天所有令人不快的疲倦和温暖。当它们在赤道长廊上闲逛一段时间后，就会出发前往东方水域，期待那里的凉爽季节，从而避开一年中另一个过高的温度。

When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange suspicious sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his interesting family. Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of the ladies, with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chases him away! High times, indeed, if unprincipled young rakes like him are to be permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss; though do what the Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out of his bed; for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies often cause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with the whales, who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. They fence with their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and so striving for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers. Not a few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters,—furrowed heads, broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some instances, wrenched and dislocated mouths.
当您在其中一个旅程中平静地前进时，如果看到任何奇怪的可疑景象，我的鲸鱼大人就会警惕地注视着他有趣的家人。如果有任何无端活泼的年轻利维坦朝这边走来，就偷偷地靠近其中一位女士，巴肖会以多么巨大的愤怒攻击他，并将他赶走！确实，如果允许像他这样无原则的年轻浪子侵犯神圣的家庭幸福，那真是太好了。尽管按照巴肖的意愿行事，他还是无法将最臭名昭著的色狼从床上赶走。因为，唉！所有鱼床共有。在岸上，女士们经常在她们的仰慕者之间引发最可怕的决斗。鲸鱼也是如此，它们有时会展开殊死的战斗，而这一切都是为了爱情。它们用长长的下颌来击剑，有时将它们锁在一起，从而像麋鹿交战地交织着鹿角一样争夺至高无上的地位。不少被捕捉到的动物在这些遭遇中留下了深深的伤疤——皱起的头、破碎的牙齿、扇形的鳍；在某些情况下，嘴巴扭曲或脱臼。

But supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at the first rush of the harem’s lord, then is it very diverting to watch that lord. Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and revels there awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario, like pious Solomon devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines. Granting other whales to be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give chase to one of these Grand Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish of their strength, and hence their unctuousness is small. As for the sons and the daughters they beget, why, those sons and daughters must take care of themselves; at least, with only the maternal help. For like certain other omnivorous roving lovers that might be named, my Lord Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower; and so, being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies all over the world; every baby an exotic. In good time, nevertheless, as the ardour of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as reflection lends her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude overtakes the sated Turk; then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our Ottoman enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life, forswears, disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old soul, goes about all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his prayers, and warning each young Leviathan from his amorous errors.
但假设家庭幸福的入侵者在后宫主第一次冲进来时就逃跑了，那么看着那个主就很有趣了。他轻轻地再次将他巨大的身躯融入到他们之中，并在那里狂欢了一会儿，仍然在年轻的洛塔里奥附近，就像虔诚的所罗门在他的数千个妃嫔中虔诚地崇拜一样。如果有其他鲸鱼出现在视线范围内，渔民们很少会追逐这些大土耳其鲸。因为这些大突厥人的力量太强大了，所以他们的油腻程度就很小了。至于他们生下的儿子和女儿，为什么，那些儿子和女儿必须照顾自己；至少，只有母亲的帮助。因为就像某些其他可能被命名的杂食性流浪恋人一样，我的鲸鱼大人对育婴室没有兴趣，无论对凉亭有多少兴趣。因此，作为一位伟大的旅行家，他在世界各地留下了他的匿名婴儿。每个婴儿都是异国情调。然而，在适当的时候，随着年轻人的热情减退；随着年份和垃圾场的增加；当沉思使她庄严地停顿时；简而言之，饱腹的土耳其人普遍感到疲倦；然后，对安逸和美德的热爱取代了对少女的热爱；我们的奥斯曼人进入了人生的无能、悔悟、训诫阶段，背弃了誓言，解散了后宫，成长为一个模范的、阴沉的老灵魂，独自在经脉和平行线中走来走去，祈祷，并警告每一个年轻的利维坦远离他的爱情错误。

Now, as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school, so is the lord and master of that school technically known as the schoolmaster. It is therefore not in strict character, however admirably satirical, that after going to school himself, he should then go abroad inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly of it. His title, schoolmaster, would very naturally seem derived from the name bestowed upon the harem itself, but some have surmised that the man who first thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must have read the memoirs of Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a country-schoolmaster that famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what was the nature of those occult lessons he inculcated into some of his pupils.
现在，正如渔民将鲸鱼的后宫称为学校一样，该学校的领主和主人在技术上也被称为校长。因此，无论多么令人钦佩的讽刺，严格意义上来说，他自己上学后，不应该去国外灌输他在那里学到的东西，而是灌输其中的愚蠢之处。他的头衔“校长”似乎很自然地源自于后宫本身的名称，但有些人猜测，第一个给这种奥斯曼鲸鱼起这样名字的人一定读过维多克的回忆录，并了解自己是什么样的人。这位著名的法国人年轻时是一位乡村校长，他向一些学生灌输的那些神秘课程的本质是什么。

The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale betakes himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm Whales. Almost universally, a lone whale—as a solitary Leviathan is called—proves an ancient one. Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone, he will have no one near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to wife in the wilderness of waters, and the best of wives she is, though she keeps so many moody secrets.
校长鲸在晚年时所经历的与世隔绝和孤立的生活同样适用于所有上了年纪的抹香鲸。几乎普遍认为，孤独的鲸鱼——一种孤独的利维坦——被证明是一种古老的鲸鱼。就像长着苔藓胡须的可敬的丹尼尔·布恩一样，除了大自然之外，他身边没有人。他在荒野中娶了她为妻，她是最好的妻子，尽管她保守着许多喜怒无常的秘密。

The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools. For while those female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious of all Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter; excepting those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met, and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.
前面提到的学校都是由年轻而有活力的男性组成的，这与后宫学校形成了鲜明的对比。因为虽然这些雌性鲸鱼具有胆怯的特征，但年轻的雄性鲸鱼，或者他们所说的四十桶公牛，是迄今为止所有利维坦中最好斗的，而且众所周知，遇到它们是最危险的。除了那些奇妙的灰头、灰白的鲸鱼，有时会遇到它们，它们会像被痛风激怒的冷酷恶魔一样与你战斗。

The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools. Like a mob of young collegians, they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness, tumbling round the world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that no prudent underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotous lad at Yale or Harvard. They soon relinquish this turbulence though, and when about three-fourths grown, break up, and separately go about in quest of settlements, that is, harems.
四十桶牛学堂比后宫学堂规模更大。就像一群年轻的大学生一样，他们充满了争斗、乐趣和邪恶，以如此鲁莽、嬉闹的速度在世界各地翻滚，以至于没有一个谨慎的承保人会像为耶鲁大学或哈佛的一个暴躁的小伙子一样为他们提供保险。不过，它们很快就放弃了这种动荡，当大约四分之三长大后，它们就会分手，并分别四处寻找定居点，即后宫。

Another point of difference between the male and female schools is still more characteristic of the sexes. Say you strike a Forty-barrel-bull—poor devil! all his comrades quit him. But strike a member of the harem school, and her companions swim around her with every token of concern, sometimes lingering so near her and so long, as themselves to fall a prey.
男校和女校之间的另一个不同点仍然是性别特征。假设你击中了一头四十桶的公牛——可怜的魔鬼！他所有的战友都离开了他。但是袭击了后宫学校的成员，她的同伴们在她周围游来游去，表现出各种关心，有时在她附近徘徊很长时间，就像自己成为猎物一样。

Chapter 89
第89章

Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.
快鱼和散鱼。

The allusion to the waif and waif-poles in the last chapter but one, necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whale fishery, of which the waif may be deemed the grand symbol and badge.
最后一章中提到的流浪者和流浪者杆，需要对鲸鱼渔业的法律和法规进行一些说明，其中流浪者可能被视为宏伟的象征和徽章。

It frequently happens that when several ships are cruising in company, a whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and be finally killed and captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly comprised many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature. For example,—after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale, the body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and drifting far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a calm, snugly tows it alongside, without risk of life or line. Thus the most vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between the fishermen, were there not some written or unwritten, universal, undisputed law applicable to all cases.
经常发生这样的情况：当多艘船结伴巡航时，一头鲸鱼可能被一艘船撞到，然后逃脱，最后被另一艘船杀死并捕获；这里间接包含了许多次要的偶然事件，所有这些都参与了这一伟大的特征。例如，在一次疲惫而危险的追逐和捕获鲸鱼之后，尸体可能会因猛烈的风暴而从船上脱落；漂流到远处的下风处，被第二艘捕鲸者重新捕获，后者在平静中紧贴地把它拖到旁边，没有生命或绳索的风险。因此，如果没有某种成文或不成文的、普遍的、无可争议的适用于所有情况的法律，渔民之间常常会发生最无理取闹、最暴力的纠纷。

Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative enactment, was that of Holland. It was decreed by the States-General in A.D. 1695. But though no other nation has ever had any written whaling law, yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators and lawyers in this matter. They have provided a system which for terse comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian’s Pandects and the By-laws of the Chinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People’s Business. Yes; these laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne’s forthing, or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so small are they.
也许唯一获得立法授权的正式捕鲸法规是荷兰的法规。它是由美国议会于公元 1695 年颁布的。虽然没有其他国家有任何成文的捕鲸法，但美国渔民在这件事上一直是自己的立法者和律师。他们提供了一个体系，其简洁、全面性超过了查士丁尼的《论》和中国制止干涉他人事务的章程。是的;这些法律可能刻在安妮女王的物品上，或者鱼叉的倒钩上，戴在脖子上，因为它们很小。

I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.
I. 快鱼属于对其速度快的一方。

II. A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.
二.对于任何能尽快抓住它的人来说，松散的鱼都是公平的游戏。

But what plays the mischief with this masterly code is the admirable brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to expound it.
但这个精巧的代码的弊端在于它的简洁性令人钦佩，需要大量的注释来解释它。

First: What is a Fast-Fish? Alive or dead a fish is technically fast, when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at all controllable by the occupant or occupants,—a mast, an oar, a nine-inch cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the same. Likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any other recognised symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it plainly evince their ability at any time to take it alongside, as well as their intention so to do.
第一：什么是快鱼？从技术上来说，无论是活鱼还是死鱼，当它通过乘员或乘员可控制的任何介质（桅杆、桨、九英寸电缆、电报线或一根蜘蛛网，都是一样的。同样，从技术上讲，当一条鱼带有一个流浪者或任何其他公认的占有象征时，它的速度就很快。只要放弃该协议的一方明确表明他们随时有能力接受该协议，以及他们这样做的意图。

These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks—the Coke-upon-Littleton of the fist. True, among the more upright and honourable whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases, where it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim possession of a whale previously chased or killed by another party. But others are by no means so scrupulous.
这些是科学评论；但捕鲸人自己的评论有时包括严厉的言辞和更重的敲击——拳头对利特尔顿的可乐。确实，在比较正直和光荣的捕鲸人中，总是会为特殊情况提供津贴，在这种情况下，一方声称拥有先前被另一方追赶或杀死的鲸鱼，这将是一种令人愤慨的道德不公正。但其他人却绝没有这么严谨。

Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover litigated in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs) had succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat itself. Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up with the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it before the very eyes of the plaintiffs. And when those defendants were remonstrated with, their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs’ teeth, and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had done, he would now retain their line, harpoons, and boat, which had remained attached to the whale at the time of the seizure. Wherefore the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale, line, harpoons, and boat.
大约五十年前，英国发生了一起奇怪的鲸鱼搜寻诉讼案，原告在北海艰难地追逐鲸鱼后提出了这一点；当他们（原告）确实成功地用鱼叉捕到鱼时；最后，他们冒着生命危险，不仅不得不放弃绳索，还不得不放弃他们的船本身。最终，被告（另一艘船的船员）找到了这条鲸鱼，击打、杀死、抓住，最后在原告眼前将其侵占。当这些被告受到规劝时，他们的船长在原告的牙齿上打响了响指，并向他们保证，通过对他所做的事情的赞美，他现在将保留他们仍然附着的鱼线、鱼叉和船。鲸鱼被抓获时。因此，原告现在提起诉讼，要求收回鲸鱼、鱼线、鱼叉和船只的价值。

Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was the judge. In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on to illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent crim. con. case, wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife’s viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life; but in the course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action to recover possession of her. Erskine was on the other side; and he then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of the great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at last abandoned her; yet abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and therefore when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that subsequent gentleman’s property, along with whatever harpoon might have been found sticking in her.
厄斯金先生是被告的律师；艾伦伯勒勋爵是法官。在辩护过程中，机智的厄斯金继续通过提及最近的一起犯罪事件来阐明自己的立场。骗局。一位绅士试图遏制妻子的恶毒，但徒劳无功，最终将她遗弃在人生的大海上。但多年来，他后悔了这一步，并采取行动夺回对她的占有。厄斯金在另一边。然后他支持这一说法，说虽然那位绅士最初用鱼叉刺伤了那位女士，并一度将她禁食，但只是因为她的恶毒行为所造成的巨大压力，最终抛弃了她；但他还是抛弃了她，让她成了一条散漫的鱼。因此，当后来的一位绅士重新用鱼叉刺伤她时，这位女士就成为了那位后来的绅士的财产，以及可能发现她身上粘着的任何鱼叉。

Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples of the whale and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other.
在本案中，厄斯金认为鲸鱼和女士的例子是相互说明的。

These pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very learned Judge in set terms decided, to wit,—That as for the boat, he awarded it to the plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it to save their lives; but that with regard to the controverted whale, harpoons, and line, they belonged to the defendants; the whale, because it was a Loose-Fish at the time of the final capture; and the harpoons and line because when the fish made off with them, it (the fish) acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody who afterwards took the fish had a right to them. Now the defendants afterwards took the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs.
这些诉状和反诉状，经过适当的审理后，这位博学的法官按照既定的条款决定，也就是说，——至于这艘船，他将其判给了原告，因为他们只是为了拯救自己的生命而放弃了它；但有争议的鲸鱼、鱼叉和鱼线属于被告；鲸鱼，因为在最终捕获时它是一条散鱼；还有鱼叉和鱼线，因为当鱼带着它们逃跑时，它（鱼）就获得了这些物品的所有权；因此，任何后来拿走这条鱼的人都有权获得它们。现在，被告后来拿走了这条鱼；因此，上述文章是他们的。

A common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might possibly object to it. But ploughed up to the primary rock of the matter, the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling laws previously quoted, and applied and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in the above cited case; these two laws touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish, I say, will, on reflection, be found the fundamentals of all human jurisprudence; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of sculpture, the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the Philistines, has but two props to stand on.
一个普通人看到这位博学的法官的这一决定可能会反对。但归根结底，前面引用的双捕鲸法中规定了两条伟大的原则，并由艾伦伯勒勋爵在上述案例中应用和阐明；我说，这两条涉及“快鱼”和“散鱼”的法律，经过反思，将成为所有人类法理学的基础。因为尽管有着复杂的雕刻图案，法律神庙就像非利士神庙一样，只有两个支柱可以站立。

Is it not a saying in every one’s mouth, Possession is half of the law: that is, regardless of how the thing came into possession? But often possession is the whole of the law. What are the sinews and souls of Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is the whole of the law? What to the rapacious landlord is the widow’s last mite but a Fast-Fish? What is yonder undetected villain’s marble mansion with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish? What is the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets from poor Woebegone, the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone’s family from starvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish? What is the Archbishop of Savesoul’s income of L100,000 seized from the scant bread and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of heaven without any of Savesoul’s help) what is that globular L100,000 but a Fast-Fish? What are the Duke of Dunder’s hereditary towns and hamlets but Fast-Fish? What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor Ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostolic lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish? And concerning all these, is not Possession the whole of the law?
每个人嘴里不是都说，占有是法律的一半：也就是说，无论该东西是如何占有的？但通常占有就是法律的全部。除了快鱼之外，俄罗斯农奴和共和国奴隶的筋骨和灵魂是什么？对它的占有就是整个法律？对于贪婪的地主来说，寡妇的最后一搏除了快鱼之外还有什么？那边那个未被发现的恶棍的大理石豪宅是什么，门牌上有流浪儿的门牌？那不是快鱼是什么？经纪人莫迪凯从可怜的破产者沃比根那里获得了多少毁灭性的折扣，以贷款来使沃比根的家人免于挨饿？除了快鱼之外，这个毁灭性的折扣是什么？萨维索尔大主教从数十万伤痕累累的劳工（没有萨维索尔的任何帮助，他们都确信天堂）的面包和奶酪中夺取的L100,000的收入是什么，那球形的L100,000只是一条快鱼？除了快鱼之外，邓德公爵的世袭城镇和村庄还有哪些？对于那位令人敬畏的标枪手约翰牛来说，可怜的爱尔兰不过是一条快鱼而已吗？对于那位使徒长矛手乔纳森弟兄来说，德克萨斯不过是一条快鱼吗？对于所有这些，占有不就是法律的全部吗？

But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable, the kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That is internationally and universally applicable.
但是，如果“快鱼”原则相当普遍适用，那么“松鱼”原则的适用范围就更广泛了。这是国际上普遍适用的。

What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and mistress? What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? What India to England? What at last will Mexico be to the United States? All Loose-Fish.
1492 年的美洲不过是一条“散鱼”，哥伦布为了达到西班牙的标准而为他的王室主人和情妇放弃了它。波兰对沙皇来说是什么？希腊对土耳其来说意味着什么？什么印度到英国？墨西哥对美国来说最终会是什么样子？所有散鱼。

What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but Loose-Fish? What all men’s minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What is the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish? What to the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but Loose-Fish? What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And what are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
除了自由的鱼之外，人权和世界自由还有什么？除了“松散的鱼”之外，所有男人的想法和观点是什么？他们的宗教信仰原则除了“散鱼”之外还有什么？对于那些自命不凡的走私言辞家来说，思想家的思想除了松鱼之外还有什么？伟大的地球本身不就是一条散落的鱼吗？读者，你除了是一条散鱼和快鱼之外，还能算什么呢？

Chapter 90
第90章

Heads or Tails.
正面或反面。

‘De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam.’ BRACTON, L. 3, C. 3.
“De balena vero sufficit，si rex habeat caput，et regina caudam。”BRACTON，L. 3，C. 3。

Latin from the books of the Laws of England, which taken along with the context, means, that of all whales captured by anybody on the coast of that land, the King, as Honourary Grand Harpooneer, must have the head, and the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail. A division which, in the whale, is much like halving an apple; there is no intermediate remainder. Now as this law, under a modified form, is to this day in force in England; and as it offers in various respects a strange anomaly touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is here treated of in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle that prompts the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car, specially reserved for the accommodation of royalty. In the first place, in curious proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in force, I proceed to lay before you a circumstance that happened within the last two years.
拉丁语出自英国法律，结合上下文，意思是，在该土地海岸上任何人捕获的所有鲸鱼中，国王作为荣誉大鱼叉手必须拥有头，而女王则必须拥有头。恭敬地献上尾巴。对于鲸鱼来说，这种划分很像将苹果切成两半。没有中间余数。现在，该法律经过修改后，至今仍在英格兰生效；由于它在各个方面都提供了一种奇怪的反常现象，涉及快鱼和散鱼的一般法则，因此这里在一个单独的章节中对其进行处理，遵循同样的礼貌原则，促使英国铁路以单独的车厢为代价，专为皇室成员的住宿而保留。首先，为了好奇地证明上述法律仍然有效，我向您展示过去两年内发生的情况。

It seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one of the Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and beaching a fine whale which they had originally descried afar off from the shore. Now the Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the jurisdiction of a sort of policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden. Holding the office directly from the crown, I believe, all the royal emoluments incident to the Cinque Port territories become by assignment his. By some writers this office is called a sinecure. But not so. Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times in fobbing his perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of them.
看来，多佛、桑威奇或五渔港的一些诚实的水手经过一番艰苦的追逐，成功地杀死了一条他们最初在远离海岸的地方看到的一头漂亮的鲸鱼，并将其搁浅。现在，五渔港部分或以某种方式受一位警察或教区执事（称为“典狱长”）的管辖。我相信，直接从王室担任职务，五渔港领土的所有皇家俸禄都归他所有。一些作家称这个办公室为闲职。但事实并非如此。因为典狱长有时忙于伪造他的津贴；这些主要是由于他的同样的欺骗而成为他的。

Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and with their trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled their fat fish high and dry, promising themselves a good L150 from the precious oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives, and good ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their respective shares; up steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman, with a copy of Blackstone under his arm; and laying it upon the whale’s head, he says—‘Hands off! this fish, my masters, is a Fast-Fish. I seize it as the Lord Warden’s.’ Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful consternation—so truly English—knowing not what to say, fall to vigorously scratching their heads all round; meanwhile ruefully glancing from the whale to the stranger. But that did in nowise mend the matter, or at all soften the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy of Blackstone. At length one of them, after long scratching about for his ideas, made bold to speak,
现在，当这些可怜的晒黑的水手们赤着脚，裤腿高高地卷在腿上，疲倦地把肥鱼拖得又高又干，并承诺从珍贵的油和鱼骨中得到很好的L150时；幻想着和妻子一起喝稀有的茶，和亲信一起喝上等的麦芽酒，凭借各自的份额；一位学识渊博、最虔诚、最慈善的绅士走了上来，腋下夹着一本《黑石》杂志。他把它放在鲸鱼的头上，说道：“把手拿开！”我的主人，这条鱼是快鱼。我把它当作典狱长大人的。”听到这句话，可怜的水手们满怀敬意地惊愕——真正的英国人——不知道该说什么，开始用力地挠头。与此同时，他悲伤地把目光从鲸鱼身上移向陌生人。但这并没有解决问题，或者完全软化了这位博学的绅士的铁石心肠。最后，其中一个人在苦苦思索了自己的想法之后，终于大胆地说出了话：

‘Please, sir, who is the Lord Warden?’
“请问，先生，典狱长是谁？”

‘The Duke.’
'公爵。'

‘But the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish?’
“但是公爵与拿走这条鱼无关？”

‘It is his.’
'这是他的。'

‘We have been at great trouble, and peril, and some expense, and is all that to go to the Duke’s benefit; we getting nothing at all for our pains but our blisters?’
“我们遇到了很大的麻烦、危险，也付出了一些代价，但这一切都是为了公爵的利益；我们的痛苦除了水泡之外一无所获？

‘It is his.’
'这是他的。'

‘Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of getting a livelihood?’
“公爵是不是太穷了，才被迫采取这种绝望的谋生方式？”

‘It is his.’
'这是他的。'

‘I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by part of my share of this whale.’
“我想通过我分享的这头鲸鱼的一部分来缓解我卧床不起的母亲的痛苦。”

‘It is his.’
'这是他的。'

‘Won’t the Duke be content with a quarter or a half?’
“公爵会满足于四分之一或二分之一吗？”

‘It is his.’
'这是他的。'

In a word, the whale was seized and sold, and his Grace the Duke of Wellington received the money. Thinking that viewed in some particular lights, the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergyman of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him to take the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. To which my Lord Duke in substance replied (both letters were published) that he had already done so, and received the money, and would be obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend gentleman) would decline meddling with other people’s business. Is this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?
总之，鲸鱼被扣押并出售，惠灵顿公爵陛下收到了这笔钱。镇上一位诚实的牧师认为，从某些特定的角度来看，这个案子在某种程度上可能被认为是一个相当棘手的案件，于是他恭敬地给陛下写了一张纸条，请求他接受充分考虑那些不幸海员的情况。公爵大人实质上答复说（两封信都已发表），他已经这样做了，并收到了钱，如果将来他（尊敬的绅士）拒绝干涉别人的事情，他将向尊敬的绅士表示感谢。商业。这就是那个依然好战的老人，站在三个王国的角落，到处胁迫乞丐的施舍吗？

It will readily be seen that in this case the alleged right of the Duke to the whale was a delegated one from the Sovereign. We must needs inquire then on what principle the Sovereign is originally invested with that right. The law itself has already been set forth. But Plowdon gives us the reason for it. Says Plowdon, the whale so caught belongs to the King and Queen, ‘because of its superior excellence.’ And by the soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in such matters.
很容易看出，在本案中，公爵对鲸鱼的所谓权利是君主授予的权利。那么我们必须询问主权者最初被赋予这项权利的原则是什么。法律本身已经阐明。但普洛登给了我们理由。普洛登说，这样捕获的鲸鱼属于国王和王后，“因为它的卓越性。”最健全的评论家在此类问题上提出了令人信服的论点。

But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the tail? A reason for that, ye lawyers!
但为什么国王有头，王后有尾呢？律师们，这是有原因的！

In his treatise on ‘Queen-Gold,’ or Queen-pinmoney, an old King’s Bench author, one William Prynne, thus discourseth: ‘Ye tail is ye Queen’s, that ye Queen’s wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone.’ Now this was written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland or Right whale was largely used in ladies’ bodices. But this same bone is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for a sagacious lawyer like Prynne. But is the Queen a mermaid, to be presented with a tail? An allegorical meaning may lurk here.
国王席上的一位老作家威廉·白兰 (William Prynne) 在其关于“王后金”或王后钱币的论文中这样说道：“尾巴是女王的，这样女王的衣柜里就可以装上鲸鱼骨。”写于当时，格陵兰鲸或露脊鲸的黑色软骨主要用于女士紧身胸衣。但这根骨头并不在尾巴上，而是在尾巴上。它在头脑中，对于像白兰这样聪明的律师来说，这是一个可悲的错误。但女王是美人鱼吗？有一条尾巴吗？这里可能潜藏着寓言意义。

There are two royal fish so styled by the English law writers—the whale and the sturgeon; both royal property under certain limitations, and nominally supplying the tenth branch of the crown’s ordinary revenue. I know not that any other author has hinted of the matter; but by inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the same way as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and elastic head peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may possibly be humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality. And thus there seems a reason in all things, even in law.
有两种被英国法律作家如此称呼的皇家鱼类——鲸鱼和鲟鱼。两者都是受到一定限制的王室财产，名义上是王室普通收入的第十个分支。我不知道其他作者是否暗示过此事；但通过推论，在我看来，鲟鱼必须以与鲸鱼相同的方式进行划分，国王拥有该鱼所特有的高度致密和有弹性的头部，从象征意义上看，这可能是幽默地基于某种假定的相投性。因此，一切事物似乎都有其合理性，甚至在法律中也是如此。

Chapter 91
第91章

The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.
裴阔德号遇上玫瑰花蕾。

‘In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan, insufferable fetor denying not inquiry.’ SIR T. BROWNE, V.E.
“在这个利维坦的肚子里搜寻龙涎香是徒劳的，令人难以忍受的恶臭拒绝询问。”T. 布朗爵士，V.E.

It was a week or two after the last whaling scene recounted, and when we were slowly sailing over a sleepy, vapoury, mid-day sea, that the many noses on the Pequod’s deck proved more vigilant discoverers than the three pairs of eyes aloft. A peculiar and not very pleasant smell was smelt in the sea.
距离最后一次捕鲸场景的叙述已经过去了一两周，当我们在正午的一片昏昏欲睡、雾气弥漫的大海上缓缓航行时，事实证明，裴阔德号甲板上的许多鼻子比高空的三双眼睛更加警惕的发现者。海里闻到了一股奇特的、不太好闻的气味。

‘I will bet something now,’ said Stubb, ‘that somewhere hereabouts are some of those drugged whales we tickled the other day. I thought they would keel up before long.’
“我现在可以打赌，”斯塔布说，“在这附近的某个地方，有一些我们前几天逗弄过的被下了药的鲸鱼。我以为他们不久就会振作起来。

Presently, the vapours in advance slid aside; and there in the distance lay a ship, whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be alongside. As we glided nearer, the stranger showed French colours from his peak; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that circled, and hovered, and swooped around him, it was plain that the whale alongside must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale, that is, a whale that has died unmolested on the sea, and so floated an unappropriated corpse. It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odor such a mass must exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague, when the living are incompetent to bury the departed. So intolerable indeed is it regarded by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to moor alongside of it. Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding the fact that the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior quality, and by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose.
不久，蒸气就先消散了；远处停着一艘船，船帆卷起，表明旁边一定有某种鲸鱼。当我们滑近时，这个陌生人从他的顶峰上露出了法国色彩。从在他周围盘旋、盘旋、俯冲的秃鹫海鸟的漩涡来看，很明显，旁边的鲸鱼一定是渔民所说的死鲸，即一头没有受到任何干扰就死在海里的鲸鱼。 ，于是漂浮了一具未被占用的尸体。可以想象，这样一群人一定会散发出一种多么难闻的气味。比瘟疫中的亚述城市还要糟糕，生者无力埋葬死者。有些人确实认为它是如此难以忍受，以至于任何贪婪都无法说服他们停泊在它旁边。然而还有人愿意这么做吗？尽管从这些科目中获得的油的质量非常低劣，而且绝不具有玫瑰油的性质。

Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman had a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed even more of a nosegay than the first. In truth, it turned out to be one of those problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving their defunct bodies almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Nevertheless, in the proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn up his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun blasted whales in general.
随着微风吹得更近了，我们看到法国人旁边还有第二条鲸鱼。第二条鲸鱼看起来比第一条更像是花束。事实上，它是那些有问题的鲸鱼之一，它们似乎因某种严重的消化不良而枯死。让他们死去的身体几乎完全耗尽了石油等任何东西。然而，在适当的地方，我们会看到，没有一个有见识的渔夫会对这样的鲸鱼嗤之以鼻，无论他一般如何避开该死的鲸鱼。

The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed he recognised his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines that were knotted round the tail of one of these whales.
裴阔德号现在已经离这个陌生人如此之近了，斯塔布发誓他认出了他的铲子被缠在其中一只鲸鱼尾巴上的绳子里了。

‘There’s a pretty fellow, now,’ he banteringly laughed, standing in the ship’s bows, ‘there’s a jackal for ye! I well know that these Crappoes of Frenchmen are but poor devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering their boats for breakers, mistaking them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes, and sometimes sailing from their port with their hold full of boxes of tallow candles, and cases of snuffers, foreseeing that all the oil they will get won’t be enough to dip the Captain’s wick into; aye, we all know these things; but look ye, here’s a Crappo that is content with our leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and is content too with scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there. Poor devil! I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let’s make him a present of a little oil for dear charity’s sake. For what oil he’ll get from that drugged whale there, wouldn’t be fit to burn in a jail; no, not in a condemned cell. And as for the other whale, why, I’ll agree to get more oil by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours, than he’ll get from that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of it, it may contain something worth a good deal more than oil; yes, ambergris. I wonder now if our old man has thought of that. It’s worth trying. Yes, I’m for it;’ and so saying he started for the quarter-deck.
“现在有一个漂亮的小伙子，”他站在船头戏谑地笑道，“有一只豺狼适合你们！”我很清楚，这些法国人在渔业上只不过是可怜虫。有时，他们会把船放下来当作碎浪，误以为是抹香鲸的喷口；是的，有时从他们的港口出发，船舱里装满了成箱的牛油蜡烛和成箱的剪纸器，预见到他们得到的所有油都不足以浸入船长的灯芯；是的，我们都知道这些事情；但是你看，这里有一条克拉波，它对我们的遗物感到满意，我是说，那是那头被下了药的鲸鱼；是的，他也满足于刮掉他那儿的其他珍贵鱼的干骨头。可怜的家伙！我说，把一顶帽子传给某人，让我们为了亲爱的慈善事业而给他送一点油作为礼物。他从那里那头被下药的鲸鱼身上得到的油，不适合在监狱里燃烧；不，不是在牢房里。至于另一头鲸鱼，我会同意通过砍断并尝试我们的这三根桅杆来获得比他从那堆骨头中获得的更多的油；不过，现在我想起来，它可能含有比石油更有价值的东西；是的，龙涎香。我现在不知道我们的老人是否想到了这一点。值得一试。是的，我赞成；”说着他开始向尾甲板走去。

By this time the faint air had become a complete calm; so that whether or no, the Pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell, with no hope of escaping except by its breezing up again. Issuing from the cabin, Stubb now called his boat’s crew, and pulled off for the stranger. Drawing across her bow, he perceived that in accordance with the fanciful French taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in the likeness of a huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for thorns had copper spikes projecting from it here and there; the whole terminating in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour. Upon her head boards, in large gilt letters, he read ‘Bouton de Rose,’—Rose-button, or Rose-bud; and this was the romantic name of this aromatic ship.
这时，微弱的空气已经完全平静了。因此，无论是否，“裴阔德”号现在​​已经完全陷入了气味之中，除非再次微风吹过，否则没有逃脱的希望。斯塔布从船舱里出来，打电话给船上的船员，为陌生人开船。拉过她的弓，他发现她的茎部上部雕刻着一根巨大的下垂茎的形状，漆成绿色，与奇特的法国品味相一致，荆棘上有铜尖刺从这里伸出，那里;整体终止于一个对称的鲜红色折叠灯泡。在她的床头板上，他用大号镀金字母写着“Bouton de Rose”——玫瑰钮扣，或玫瑰花蕾；这就是这艘芳香船的浪漫名字。

Though Stubb did not understand the BOUTON part of the inscription, yet the word ROSE, and the bulbous figure-head put together, sufficiently explained the whole to him.
尽管斯塔布不明白铭文中的“BOUTON”部分，但“ROSE”一词和球根状的头像组合在一起，足以向他解释整个过程。

‘A wooden rose-bud, eh?’ he cried with his hand to his nose, ‘that will do very well; but how like all creation it smells!’
“一朵木制的玫瑰花蕾，嗯？”他用手捂住鼻子喊道，“那就太好了；不过，这真是太棒了。”但它的味道多么像所有的创造物啊！”

Now in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck, he had to pull round the bows to the starboard side, and thus come close to the blasted whale; and so talk over it.
现在为了与甲板上的人保持直接联系，他必须将船头拉到右舷，从而靠近那头该死的鲸鱼；所以讨论一下吧。

Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he bawled—‘Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy! are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that speak English?’
到了这个地方，他一只手仍然放在鼻子上，大声喊道：“布顿德罗斯，哎呀！”你们布顿德玫瑰中有人会说英语吗？

‘Yes,’ rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to be the chief-mate.
“是的，”舷墙上的一名根西岛人回答道，他原来是大副。

‘Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?’
“那么，我的玫瑰花蕾，你看到白鲸了吗？”

‘WHAT whale?’
“什么鲸鱼？”

‘The WHITE Whale—a Sperm Whale—Moby Dick, have ye seen him?
‘白鲸——抹香鲸——莫比·迪克，你们见过他吗？

‘Never heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale—no.’
“从来没有听说过这样的鲸鱼。卡查洛·布兰奇！白鲸——不。”

‘Very good, then; good bye now, and I’ll call again in a minute.’
‘那么，很好；现在再见，我一会儿再打电话。

Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaning over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two hands into a trumpet and shouted—‘No, Sir! No!’ Upon which Ahab retired, and Stubb returned to the Frenchman.
然后迅速退回裴阔德号，看到亚哈靠在尾甲板栏杆上等待他的报告，他把两只手变成喇叭状，喊道：“不，先生！不！”说完，亚哈就退场了，斯塔布又回到了法国人身边。

He now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into the chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort of bag.
他现在意识到，刚刚被锁链锁住的根西岛男子正在使用一把铲子，他的鼻子被塞进了一个袋子里。

‘What’s the matter with your nose, there?’ said Stubb. ‘Broke it?’
“你的鼻子怎么了？”斯塔布说。 '打破它？'

‘I wish it was broken, or that I didn’t have any nose at all!’ answered the Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very much. ‘But what are you holding YOURS for?’
“我希望它被打破了，或者我根本没有鼻子！”根西岛人回答道，他似乎不太喜欢他所做的工作。 “但是你拿着你的东西干什么？”

‘Oh, nothing! It’s a wax nose; I have to hold it on. Fine day, ain’t it? Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, will ye, Bouton-de-Rose?’
‘哦，没什么！这是一个蜡鼻子；我必须坚持下去。美好的一天，不是吗？我应该说，空气中充满了花园的气息；给我们扔一堆花束，好吗，Bouton-de-Rose？

‘What in the devil’s name do you want here?’ roared the Guernseyman, flying into a sudden passion.
“天哪，你到底想在这里做什么？”根西岛人突然爆发出一股激情，咆哮道。

‘Oh! keep cool—cool? yes, that’s the word! why don’t you pack those whales in ice while you’re working at ‘em? But joking aside, though; do you know, Rose-bud, that it’s all nonsense trying to get any oil out of such whales? As for that dried up one, there, he hasn’t a gill in his whole carcase.’
'哦！保持冷静——冷静？是的，就是这个词！当你在处理这些鲸鱼时，为什么不把它们放在冰里呢？不过，开个玩笑吧；你知道吗，玫瑰花蕾，试图从这些鲸鱼身上获取石油都是无稽之谈？至于那只干了的，他整个尸体都没有鳃。”

‘I know that well enough; but, d’ye see, the Captain here won’t believe it; this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before. But come aboard, and mayhap he’ll believe you, if he won’t me; and so I’ll get out of this dirty scrape.’
“我很清楚这一点；但是，你看，这里的船长不会相信这一点；这是他的第一次航行；他以前是科隆制造商。但上船吧，也许他会相信你，如果他不肯相信我的话；这样我就能摆脱这个肮脏的困境。

‘Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow,’ rejoined Stubb, and with that he soon mounted to the deck. There a queer scene presented itself. The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were getting the heavy tackles in readiness for the whales. But they worked rather slow and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good humor. All their noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms. Now and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the mast-head to get some fresh air. Some thinking they would catch the plague, dipped oakum in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their nostrils. Others having broken the stems of their pipes almost short off at the bowl, were vigorously puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it constantly filled their olfactories.
“有什么可以帮忙的，我可爱又讨人喜欢的家伙，”斯塔布回答道，说完他很快就登上了甲板。奇怪的一幕出现了。戴着红色精纺流苏帽子的水手们正在拿起沉重的渔具，准备迎接鲸鱼。但他们做事很慢，说话很快，而且看上去一点也不幽默。他们所有的鼻子都从脸上向上突出，就像许多三角帆一样。他们时不时地放下手中的工作，跑到桅杆顶呼吸新鲜空气。有些人以为自己会感染瘟疫，就把橡木浸在煤焦油里，时不时地把它放在鼻孔里。另一些人则把烟斗的烟斗在烟斗上折断，使劲地吸着烟草烟雾，让烟雾不断地充满他们的嗅觉。

Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from the Captain’s round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a fiery face thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from within. This was the tormented surgeon, who, after in vain remonstrating against the proceedings of the day, had betaken himself to the Captain’s round-house (CABINET he called it) to avoid the pest; but still, could not help yelling out his entreaties and indignations at times.
斯塔布被从船长的圆屋后面传来的一阵阵叫喊和咒骂震惊了。朝那个方向望去，看到一张火热的脸从门后探出，门从里面半开着。这位饱受折磨的外科医生，在对当天的程序提出徒劳的抗议后，来到了船长的圆屋（他称之为内阁）以避免害虫。但时不时还是忍不住大声哀求和愤慨。

Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus, who had brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle. Sounding him carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man had not the slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris. He therefore held his peace on that head, but otherwise was quite frank and confidential with him, so that the two quickly concocted a little plan for both circumventing and satirizing the Captain, without his at all dreaming of distrusting their sincerity. According to this little plan of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an interpreter’s office, was to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming from Stubb; and as for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost in him during the interview.
注意到这一切，斯塔布为他的计划辩护得很好，并转向根西岛人与他进行了一些交谈，期间这位陌生的大副表达了他对他的船长的厌恶，认为他是一个自负的无知者，他让他们所有人都陷入了如此令人厌恶和不愉快的境地。无利可图的泡菜。斯塔布仔细地听了他的声音，进一步发现根西岛人对龙涎香没有丝毫怀疑。因此，他在这一点上保持沉默，但在其他方面对他却很坦诚和保密，于是两人很快就制定了一个既规避又讽刺队长的小计划，他根本没有想到会怀疑他们的诚意。根据他们的这个小计划，根西岛人在翻译办公室的掩护下，要告诉船长他想说什么，但就像来自斯塔布一样；至于斯塔布，他在采访中不得说出任何最重要的废话。

By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin. He was a small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvet vest with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was now politely introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put on the aspect of interpreting between them.
这时，他们命中注定的受害者从他的小屋里出现了。他身材矮小，肤色黝黑，但作为一名船长，他看上去相当精致，留着大胡子。他穿着一件红色棉质天鹅绒背心，旁边贴着手表封条。这位根西岛人现在礼貌地将斯塔布介绍给这位绅士，后者立即摆出一副在他们之间做翻译的样子。

‘What shall I say to him first?’ said he.
“我该先对他说什么？”他说。

‘Why,’ said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals, ‘you may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me, though I don’t pretend to be a judge.’
“为什么，”斯塔布看着天鹅绒背心、手表和印章说，“你最好先告诉他，在我看来，他有点幼稚，尽管我不假装是法官。”

‘He says, Monsieur,’ said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his captain, ‘that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain and chief-mate, with six sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a blasted whale they had brought alongside.’
“他说，先生，”根西岛人转向他的船长，用法语说道，“就在昨天，他的船还说话了，这艘船的船长、大副和六名水手都因发烧而死亡。”他们带来了一条该死的鲸鱼。

Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.
船长听了这句话，急切地想知道更多。

‘What now?’ said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.
“现在怎么办？”根西岛人对斯塔布说。

‘Why, since he takes it so easy, tell him that now I have eyed him carefully, I’m quite certain that he’s no more fit to command a whale-ship than a St. Jago monkey. In fact, tell him from me he’s a baboon.’
“既然他这么轻松，就告诉他，现在我已经仔细观察过他了，我很确定他并不比一只圣杰戈猴更适合指挥捕鲸船。”事实上，从我的角度告诉他，他是一只狒狒。

‘He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, is far more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us, as we value our lives, to cut loose from these fish.’
“先生，他发誓并宣称，另一条鲸鱼，即干的鲸鱼，比被炸死的鲸鱼致命得多；总之，先生，他召唤我们，因为我们珍惜我们的生命，所以要摆脱这些鱼。

Instantly the captain ran forward, and in a loud voice commanded his crew to desist from hoisting the cutting-tackles, and at once cast loose the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship.
船长立即跑上前，大声命令船员停止吊起渔具，并立即松开将鲸鱼限制在船上的缆绳和铁链。

‘What now?’ said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned to them.
“现在怎么办？”当船长回到他们身边时，根西岛人问道。

‘Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that—that—in fact, tell him I’ve diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps somebody else.’
‘为什么，让我看看；是的，你现在不妨告诉他——那个——事实上，告诉他我欺骗了他，也许还有其他人（除了他自己）。

‘He says, Monsieur, that he’s very happy to have been of any service to us.’
“先生，他说他很高兴能为我们提供任何服务。”

Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties (meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into his cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.
听到这句话，船长发誓他们是感激的一方（指他自己和大副），最后邀请斯塔布到他的船舱喝一瓶波尔多葡萄酒。

‘He wants you to take a glass of wine with him,’ said the interpreter.
“他希望你随身带一杯酒，”翻译说。

‘Thank him heartily; but tell him it’s against my principles to drink with the man I’ve diddled. In fact, tell him I must go.’
‘衷心感谢他；但告诉他和我骗过的人一起喝酒是违反我的原则的。事实上，告诉他我必须走了。

‘He says, Monsieur, that his principles won’t admit of his drinking; but that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then Monsieur had best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these whales, for it’s so calm they won’t drift.’
“他说，先生，他的原则不允许他喝酒；但如果先生还想再活一天喝酒，那么先生最好把四艘船全部放下，把船拉离这些鲸鱼，因为风平浪静，它们不会随波逐流。

By this time Stubb was over the side, and getting into his boat, hailed the Guernsey-man to this effect,—that having a long tow-line in his boat, he would do what he could to help them, by pulling out the lighter whale of the two from the ship’s side. While the Frenchman’s boats, then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb benevolently towed away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking out a most unusually long tow-line.
这时斯塔布已经到了船边，上了他的船，向根西岛人打招呼，大意是——他的船上有一条很长的拖绳，他会尽其所能来帮助他们，把船拉出来。从船舷侧观察的两条鲸鱼中较轻的鲸鱼。当法国人的船正朝一侧拖船时，斯塔布仁慈地从另一侧拖走他的鲸鱼，招摇地放松了一条异常长的拖绳。

Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb feigned to cast off from the whale; hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon increased his distance, while the Pequod slid in between him and Stubb’s whale. Whereupon Stubb quickly pulled to the floating body, and hailing the Pequod to give notice of his intentions, at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his unrighteous cunning. Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced an excavation in the body, a little behind the side fin. You would almost have thought he was digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at length his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old Roman tiles and pottery buried in fat English loam. His boat’s crew were all in high excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking as anxious as gold-hunters.
不久，一阵微风吹来；斯塔布假装要摆脱鲸鱼。法国人升起了小船，很快就拉开了距离，而裴廓德号则滑进了他和斯塔布的鲸鱼之间。于是斯塔布迅速拉到漂浮的尸体上，并欢呼“裴廓德号”注意他的意图，立即开始收获他不义狡猾的果实。他抓起锋利的船铲，开始在尸体的侧鳍后面一点处挖掘。你几乎会以为他是在海里挖地窖；事实上，他是在海里挖地窖。最后，当他的铁锹碰到枯瘦的肋骨时，就像翻开埋在肥厚的英国壤土中的古老罗马瓷砖和陶器一样。他的船上的船员们都非常兴奋，热切地帮助他们的船长，看上去就像淘金者一样焦急。

And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them. Stubb was beginning to look disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when suddenly from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint stream of perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without being absorbed by it, as one river will flow into and then along with another, without at all blending with it for a time.
无数的家禽一直在他们周围潜水、躲避、尖叫、大喊、打架。斯塔布开始显得失望，尤其是当可怕的花束越来越多的时候，突然从这场瘟疫的中心，偷走了一股淡淡的香水味，它在恶臭的浪潮中流淌，却没有被它吸收，就像一条河流一样。会流入另一个，然后与另一个一起流动，暂时不会与它混合。

‘I have it, I have it,’ cried Stubb, with delight, striking something in the subterranean regions, ‘a purse! a purse!’
“我找到了，我找到了，”斯塔布碰了一下地下的某个东西，高兴地喊道，“一个钱包！”一个钱包！'

Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls of something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old cheese; very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it with your thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this, good friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist. Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably lost in the sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured were it not for impatient Ahab’s loud command to Stubb to desist, and come on board, else the ship would bid them good bye.
他扔下铁锹，双手伸进去，抓出一把东西，看起来像是成熟的温莎肥皂，或者是浓郁的斑驳的老奶酪；非常油腻可口。你可能会很容易用拇指把它弄凹下去；它的色调介于黄色和灰白色之间。好朋友，这就是龙涎香，对任何药剂师来说，每盎司都值一金几内亚。大约得到了六把；但更多的人不可避免地在大海中丢失了，如果不是亚哈不耐烦地大声命令斯塔布停止并上船，也许还有更多的人可能会安全，否则船就会向他们告别。

Chapter 92
第92章

Ambergris.
龙涎香。

Now this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as an article of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that subject. For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day, the precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem to the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber, though at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far inland soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea. Besides, amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance, used for mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ambergris is soft, waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy, that it is largely used in perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles, hair-powders, and pomatum. The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to Mecca, for the same purpose that frankincense is carried to St. Peter’s in Rome. Some wine merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.
现在，这种龙涎香是一种非常奇怪的物质，而且作为一种商业物品非常重要，以至于 1791 年，一位出生于楠塔基特岛的科芬船长在英国下议院的律师会上接受了有关该主题的审查。因为在那时，甚至直到相对较晚的日子，龙涎香的确切起源仍然像琥珀本身一样，对学者来说仍然是一个问题。虽然龙涎香这个词只是法语中灰色琥珀的复合词，但这两种物质却截然不同。因为琥珀虽然有时在海岸上发现，但也在一些遥远的内陆土壤中被挖掘出来，而龙涎香除了在海上从未被发现。此外，琥珀是一种坚硬、透明、易碎、无味的物质，用于制作烟嘴、烟斗、珠子和装饰品；但龙涎香柔软、蜡质，香气浓郁，辛辣，因此广泛用于香水、锭剂、珍贵蜡烛、发粉和香精。土耳其人用它来烹饪，也将它带到麦加，其目的与乳香被带到罗马圣彼得大教堂的目的相同。一些酒商会在红葡萄酒中加入一些谷物来调味。

Who would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick whale! Yet so it is. By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and by others the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale. How to cure such a dyspepsia it were hard to say, unless by administering three or four boat loads of Brandreth’s pills, and then running out of harm’s way, as laborers do in blasting rocks.
那么，谁会想到，如此优秀的女士们和先生们竟然会用从病鲸的不光彩肠子里发现的精华来犒赏自己呢！但事实确实如此。有些人认为龙涎香是鲸鱼消化不良的原因，而另一些人则认为是其影响。很难说如何治疗这种消化不良，除非服用三到四船布兰德雷斯的药丸，然后跑出危险的地方，就像工人在爆破岩石时所做的那样。

I have forgotten to say that there were found in this ambergris, certain hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought might be sailors’ trowsers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they were nothing more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.
我忘了说，在这龙涎香中发现了某些坚硬的、圆形的骨片，斯塔布起初认为这可能是水手裤上的纽扣；后来，他发现了这些东西。但事后证明，它们只不过是用这种方式防腐的小鱿鱼骨头。

Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be found in the heart of such decay; is this nothing? Bethink thee of that saying of St. Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption; how that we are sown in dishonour, but raised in glory. And likewise call to mind that saying of Paracelsus about what it is that maketh the best musk. Also forget not the strange fact that of all things of ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its rudimental manufacturing stages, is the worst.
现在，这种最芬芳的龙涎香的不腐烂应该在这种腐烂的中心被发现；这没什么吗？想想圣保罗在《哥林多前书》中关于腐败和廉洁的说法；我们是在羞辱中种下的，却在荣耀中复活。同样，请记住帕拉塞尔苏斯关于什么是最好的麝香的说法。不要忘记一个奇怪的事实，即在所有味道不好的东西中，处于初级制造阶段的古龙水是最糟糕的。

I should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal, but cannot, owing to my anxiety to repel a charge often made against whalemen, and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds, might be considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of the Frenchman’s two whales. Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous aspersion has been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout a slatternly, untidy business. But there is another thing to rebut. They hint that all whales always smell bad. Now how did this odious stigma originate?
我想以上述呼吁来结束这一章，但由于我急于反驳经常针对捕鲸人提出的指控，因此不能这样做，而根据一些已经有偏见的人的估计，这些指控可能被认为是由已证实的事实间接证实的。法国人的两条鲸鱼说道。在本书的其他地方，有关捕鲸业是一项邋遢、邋遢的行业的诽谤性诽谤已被驳斥。但还有一件事需要反驳。他们暗示所有的鲸鱼总是有难闻的气味。那么，这种令人厌恶的耻辱是如何产生的呢？

I opine, that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the Greenland whaling ships in London, more than two centuries ago. Because those whalemen did not then, and do not now, try out their oil at sea as the Southern ships have always done; but cutting up the fresh blubber in small bits, thrust it through the bung holes of large casks, and carry it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in those Icy Seas, and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed, forbidding any other course. The consequence is, that upon breaking into the hold, and unloading one of these whale cemeteries, in the Greenland dock, a savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising from excavating an old city grave-yard, for the foundations of a Lying-in-Hospital.
我认为，这显然可以追溯到两个多世纪前格陵兰捕鲸船首次抵达伦敦。因为那些捕鲸人当时并没有像南方船只一直在海上那样在海上尝试他们的石油；现在也没有。而是将新鲜的鲸脂切成小块，将其塞入大桶的塞孔中，然后以这种方式带回家。这些冰冷的海洋的季节很短，而且它们面临着突然而猛烈的风暴，禁止任何其他航向。结果是，在格陵兰码头闯入船舱并卸下其中一个鲸鱼墓地时，会散发出一种类似于挖掘旧城墓地所产生的味道，为躺卧的地基奠定基础。在医院。

I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may be likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in former times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, which latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great work on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports (smeer, fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to afford a place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was a collection of furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor. But all this is quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a voyage of four years perhaps, after completely filling her hold with oil, does not, perhaps, consume fifty days in the business of boiling out; and in the state that it is casked, the oil is nearly scentless. The truth is, that living or dead, if but decently treated, whales as a species are by no means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be recognised, as the people of the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company, by the nose. Nor indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant, when, as a general thing, he enjoys such high health; taking abundance of exercise; always out of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the open air. I say, that the motion of a Sperm Whale’s flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a musk-scented lady rustles her dress in a warm parlor. What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance, considering his magnitude? Must it not be to that famous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, which was led out of an Indian town to do honour to Alexander the Great?
我还部分推测，这种针对捕鲸者的邪恶指控可能同样归因于以前格陵兰岛海岸上存在一个名为施梅伦堡或斯密伦贝格的荷兰村庄，后一个名字是博学的福戈·冯·斯莱克使用的名字，在他关于气味的伟大著作中，这是一本关于该主题的教科书。正如它的名字（smeer，脂肪；berg，放置）一样，这个村庄的建立是为了为荷兰鲸鱼船队的鲸脂提供一个地方进行试验，而不是为此目的将其带回荷兰。这是一个熔炉、油壶和油棚的集合体。当这些工程全面投入运行时，肯定不会产生任何令人愉快的味道。但对于南海抹香鲸来说，这一切就完全不同了。在四年的航行中，在她的船舱完全装满油之后，也许不会花费五十天的时间来煮沸；在桶装状态下，油几乎没有气味。事实是，无论是活的还是死的，只要得到适当的对待，鲸鱼作为一个物种绝不是有难闻气味的生物；捕鲸人也无法被认出，就像中世纪的人们通过鼻子来发现公司中的犹太人一样。事实上，当鲸鱼一般都享有如此高的健康状况时，它也可能不香。进行充足的锻炼；总是在户外；不过，这是事实，很少在露天。我说，抹香鲸的尾鳍在水面上的运动会散发出香水，就像一位散发着麝香的女士在温暖的客厅里使她的衣服沙沙作响一样。那么，考虑到抹香鲸的巨大，我应该用什么来形容它的香气呢？ 难道不是那头著名的大象，它长着宝石象牙，散发着没药的香气，它被从印度的一个城镇牵出来，向亚历山大大帝表示敬意？

Chapter 93
第93章

The Castaway.
漂流者。

It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman, that a most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod’s crew; an event most lamentable; and which ended in providing the sometimes madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own.
就在与法国人相遇几天后，一件最重大的事件发生在了裴廓德号最微不足道的船员身上。最可悲的事件；最终为这艘有时疯狂快乐且命中注定的飞船提供了一个生动且永远伴随的预言，无论任何破碎的续集都可能证明她自己的预言。

Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats. Some few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is to work the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale. As a general thing, these ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats’ crews. But if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, or timorous wight in the ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper. It was so in the Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by abbreviation. Poor Pip! ye have heard of him before; ye must remember his tambourine on that dramatic midnight, so gloomy-jolly.
现在，在捕鲸船上，并不是每个人都上船。一些人被保留下来，称为守船人，他们的职责是在船只追捕鲸鱼时操作船只。一般来说，这些船主和船员一样都是吃苦耐劳的人。但如果船上碰巧有一个过于瘦弱、笨拙或胆怯的尸鬼，那么这个尸鬼肯定会被任命为守船人。在《裴阔德》中，小黑人皮平（Pippin）的昵称，简称皮普（Pip）就是如此。可怜的皮普！你们以前听说过他；你们一定还记得那个戏剧性的午夜他的手鼓，那么阴郁而欢乐。

In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and a white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar colour, driven in one eccentric span. But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull and torpid in his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at bottom very bright, with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness peculiar to his tribe; a tribe, which ever enjoy all holidays and festivities with finer, freer relish than any other race. For blacks, the year’s calendar should show naught but three hundred and sixty-five Fourth of Julys and New Year’s Days. Nor smile so, while I write that this little black was brilliant, for even blackness has its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous ebony, panelled in king’s cabinets. But Pip loved life, and all life’s peaceable securities; so that the panic-striking business in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, had most sadly blurred his brightness; though, as ere long will be seen, what was thus temporarily subdued in him, in the end was destined to be luridly illumined by strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him off to ten times the natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddler’s frolic on the green; and at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turned the round horizon into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in the clear air of day, suspended against a blue-veined neck, the pure-watered diamond drop will healthful glow; yet, when the cunning jeweller would show you the diamond in its most impressive lustre, he lays it against a gloomy ground, and then lights it up, not by the sun, but by some unnatural gases. Then come out those fiery effulgences, infernally superb; then the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinest symbol of the crystal skies, looks like some crown-jewel stolen from the King of Hell. But let us to the story.
从外观上看，皮普和面团男孩是一对，就像一匹黑色小马和一匹白色小马，虽然颜色不同，但发展相同，在一个偏心的跨度内驱动。倒霉的面团小子生性迟钝，智力迟钝，而皮普虽然心肠太软，但本质上却非常聪明，带着他部落所特有的那种令人愉快、和蔼可亲、快活的聪明才智。一个部落，他们比任何其他种族都以更美好、更自由的方式享受所有的节日和庆祝活动。对于黑人来说，一年的日历应该只显示三百六十五个独立日和元旦。当我写到这个小黑很光彩时，也不要这样微笑，因为即使是黑色也有它的光彩；看哪，国王的橱柜里镶嵌着闪亮的乌木。但皮普热爱生活，热爱生活中一切安宁的保障。因此，他莫名其妙地陷入了令人惊慌失措的事情中，最可悲的是模糊了他的光明。然而，不久之后我们就会看到，他身上暂时被抑制的东西，最终注定会被奇怪的野火可怕地照亮，这虚拟地向他展示了十倍于他的家乡托兰县自然光泽的光彩。在康涅狄格州，他曾经让许多小提琴手在果岭上嬉戏。在悠扬的晚潮时，带着他快乐的哈哈！把圆形的地平线变成了一只挂着星星的铃鼓。因此，尽管在白天晴朗的空气中，悬挂在蓝色静脉的脖子上，纯净水的钻石水滴也会发出健康的光芒；然而，当狡猾的珠宝商向您展示钻石最令人印象深刻的光泽时，他会将其放在阴暗的地面上，然后用一些非自然气体而不是阳光将其照亮。 然后，那些炽热的光芒就出来了，极其美妙；然后，邪恶的炽热钻石，曾经是水晶天空最神圣的象征，看起来就像是从地狱之王那里偷来的皇冠上的宝石。但让我们来看这个故事。

It came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb’s after-oarsman chanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed; and, temporarily, Pip was put into his place.
事情是这样的，在龙涎香事件中，斯塔布的后桨手碰巧扭伤了手，一度严重残废。皮普暂时代替了他的位置。

The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness; but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing him, took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousness to the utmost, for he might often find it needful.
斯塔布第一次和他一起下降时，皮普显得非常紧张。但幸运的是，那一次，我们避免了与鲸鱼的近距离接触。因此，结果并没有完全丢脸。尽管斯塔布观察了他，事后还是小心翼翼地劝告他要最大限度地珍惜自己的勇气，因为他可能经常发现这是必要的。

Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the whale; and as the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap, which happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip’s seat. The involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in hand, out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale line coming against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as to become entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water. That instant the stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly straightened; and presto! poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks of the boat, remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken several turns around his chest and neck.
现在，在第二次下降时，船划到了鲸鱼身上。当鱼接到飞镖时，它发出了惯常的敲击声，在这个例子中，敲击声恰好就在可怜的皮普的座位下面。这一刻的惊愕让他不自觉地手握桨，跳出了船。就这样，那条松弛的鲸鱼线抵住了他的胸口，他把它带出船去，以便在最后跳进水里时被它缠住。就在被击中的鲸鱼开始猛烈奔跑的那一刻，队伍很快就变直了；很快！可怜的皮普浑身吐着白沫，来到船舷处，被绳子无情地拖到了那里，绳子在他的胸口和脖子上绕了好几圈。

Tashtego stood in the bows. He was full of the fire of the hunt. He hated Pip for a poltroon. Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath, he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb, exclaimed interrogatively, ‘Cut?’ Meantime Pip’s blue, choked face plainly looked, Do, for God’s sake! All passed in a flash. In less than half a minute, this entire thing happened.
塔什特戈站在船头。他充满了狩猎的热情。他讨厌皮普，因为他是个恶棍。他从刀鞘里拔出船刀，把锋利的刀刃挂在绳子上，然后转向斯塔布，疑惑地喊道：“割？”与此同时，皮普那张蓝色的、哽咽的脸显然是在说，看在上帝份上，割吧！一切都在一瞬间过去了。不到半分钟，整个事情就发生了。

‘Damn him, cut!’ roared Stubb; and so the whale was lost and Pip was saved.
“该死的，砍！”斯塔布咆哮道。就这样，鲸鱼失踪了，皮普得救了。

So soon as he recovered himself, the poor little negro was assailed by yells and execrations from the crew. Tranquilly permitting these irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a plain, business-like, but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially; and that done, unofficially gave him much wholesome advice. The substance was, Never jump from a boat, Pip, except—but all the rest was indefinite, as the soundest advice ever is. Now, in general, STICK TO THE BOAT, is your true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when LEAP FROM THE BOAT, is still better. Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if he should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be leaving him too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped all advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, ‘Stick to the boat, Pip, or by the Lord, I won’t pick you up if you jump; mind that. We can’t afford to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for thirty times what you would, Pip, in Alabama. Bear that in mind, and don’t jump any more.’ Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, that though man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal, which propensity too often interferes with his benevolence.
当他回过神来时，这个可怜的小黑人就遭到了船员们的叫喊和咒骂。斯塔布平静地让这些不规则的咒骂消失了，然后以一种朴素、公事公办但仍然半幽默的方式正式咒骂了皮普。这样做之后，非正式地给了他很多有益的建议。其实质内容是，除了皮普，千万不要从船上跳下去——但其余的都是不确定的，就像有史以来最合理的建议一样。现在，总的来说，“坚持在船上”是捕鲸的真正座右铭；但有时会发生这种情况，当“LEAP FROM THE BOAT”仍然更好时。此外，似乎他终于意识到，如果他向皮普提供不加认真的忠告，他就会给皮普留下太大的余地，无法为未来做出贡献；斯塔布突然放弃了所有的建议，最后下了一个命令：“皮普，乖乖呆在船上，不然老天爷发誓，如果你跳下去，我就不会接你了。”请介意。我们不能因为你们这样的人而失去鲸鱼；皮普，在阿拉巴马州，一头鲸鱼的售价是你的三十倍。记住这一点，不要再跳了。”斯塔布在此也许间接暗示，尽管人爱他的同胞，但人是一种赚钱的动物，这种倾向常常干扰他的仁慈。

But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. It was under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this time he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started to run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller’s trunk. Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word. It was a beautiful, bounteous, blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away, all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater’s skin hammered out to the extremest. Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip’s ebon head showed like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly astern. Stubb’s inexorable back was turned upon him; and the whale was winged. In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless ocean was between Pip and Stubb. Out from the centre of the sea, poor Pip turned his crisp, curling, black head to the sun, another lonely castaway, though the loftiest and the brightest.
但我们都在神的手中；皮普又跳了起来。与第一次演出的情况非常相似；但这一次他没有拔出绳子。因此，当鲸鱼开始奔跑时，皮普被留在海面上，就像一个匆忙的旅行者的行李箱。唉!斯塔布言出必行。那是一个美丽、富饶、蔚蓝的日子。波光粼粼的大海平静而凉爽，平坦地向四周延伸，一直延伸到地平线，就像打金者的皮肤被锤打到了极致。皮普的黑檀木头在大海中上下浮动，露出丁香的头。当他如此迅速地倒在船尾时，没有人举起船刀。斯塔布无情地背对着他。鲸鱼长着翅膀。三分钟之内，皮普和斯塔布之间就出现了一英里无岸的海洋。从大海的中心出来，可怜的皮普把他那清脆的、卷曲的、黑色的头转向太阳，他又是一个孤独的漂流者，尽管他是最崇高和最聪明的人。

Now, in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the practised swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But the awful lonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in the middle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark, how when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea—mark how closely they hug their ship and only coast along her sides.
现在，在风平浪静的天气里，对于熟练的游泳者来说，在公海游泳就像乘坐弹簧马车上岸一样容易。但那种可怕的孤独是难以忍受的。在如此无情的浩瀚之中，自我的高度集中，我的上帝！谁能告诉我呢？马克，当水手们在一片平静的大海中沐浴时，他们是多么紧紧地拥抱着自己的船，只沿着船的两侧海岸行驶。

But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate? No; he did not mean to, at least. Because there were two boats in his wake, and he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pip very quickly, and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations towards oarsmen jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always manifested by the hunters in all similar instances; and such instances not unfrequently occur; almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so called, is marked with the same ruthless detestation peculiar to military navies and armies.
但斯塔布真的抛弃了这个可怜的小黑人吗？不;至少他不是故意的。因为有两艘船在他身后，毫无疑问，他认为它们当然会很快来到皮普身边并接他；事实上，在所有类似的情况下，猎人并不总是表现出对因自己的胆怯而受到危险的桨手的这种考虑。而且这种情况并不少见；在渔业中，所谓的胆小鬼几乎无一例外地带有海军和陆军所特有的同样无情的厌恶。

But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly spying whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; and Stubb’s boat was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent upon his fish, that Pip’s ringed horizon began to expand around him miserably. By the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at least, they said he was. The sea had jeeringly kept his finite body up, but drowned the infinite of his soul. Not drowned entirely, though. Rather carried down alive to wondrous depths, where strange shapes of the unwarped primal world glided to and fro before his passive eyes; and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded heaps; and among the joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the multitudinous, God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of waters heaved the colossal orbs. He saw God’s foot upon the treadle of the loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad. So man’s insanity is heaven’s sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man comes at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is absurd and frantic; and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, indifferent as his God.
但碰巧的是，那些船没有看到皮普，突然发现一侧有靠近它们的鲸鱼，于是掉头追赶。斯塔布的船现在已经离得很远了，而他和他所有的船员都那么专注于他的鱼，以至于皮普的地平线开始在他周围痛苦地扩大。碰巧的是，船最终救了他。但从那时起，这个小黑人就成了一个白痴，在甲板上走来走去。至少他们是这样说的。大海嘲笑地支撑着他有限的身体，却淹没了他无限的灵魂。不过，并没有完全被淹死。相反，他被活生生地带到了奇妙的深处，在那里，未变形的原始世界的奇怪形状在他被动的眼前来回滑动；吝啬的人鱼智慧，露出了他囤积的一堆东西；在欢乐、无情、永远年轻的永恒中，匹普看到了众多、上帝无所不在的珊瑚虫，它们从水的苍穹中升起巨大的球体。他看到上帝的脚踏在织布机的踏板上，就说出了这句话；因此他的船友们称他为疯子。故人之疯狂，天之感也；人类最终脱离了所有凡人的理性，到达了天国的思想，而对于理性来说，这种思想是荒谬和疯狂的。无论福祸，他都感到毫不妥协，漠不关心，就像他的上帝一样。

For the rest, blame not Stubb too hardly. The thing is common in that fishery; and in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what like abandonment befell myself.
其余的，不要太苛责斯塔布。这种事在那个渔场很常见；在接下来的叙述中，我们将会看到类似被遗弃的事情降临在我身上。

Chapter 94
第94章

A Squeeze of the Hand.
手的挤压。

That whale of Stubb’s, so dearly purchased, was duly brought to the Pequod’s side, where all those cutting and hoisting operations previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to the baling of the Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.
斯塔布的那条鲸鱼，如此昂贵地买来，被及时带到了裴廓德号的身边，所有先前详细说明的切割和吊装操作都在那里定期进行，甚至到了海德堡图恩（或凯斯）的打包。

While some were occupied with this latter duty, others were employed in dragging away the larger tubs, so soon as filled with the sperm; and when the proper time arrived, this same sperm was carefully manipulated ere going to the try-works, of which anon.
当一些人忙于后一项职责时，另一些人则负责拖走较大的桶，以便尽快装满精子。当适当的时间到来时，同一个精子在立即进入试验工厂之前经过仔细的操作。

It had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with several others, I sat down before a large Constantine’s bath of it, I found it strangely concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about in the liquid part. It was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid. A sweet and unctuous duty! No wonder that in old times this sperm was such a favourite cosmetic. Such a clearer! such a sweetener! such a softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in it for only a few minutes, my fingers felt like eels, and began, as it were, to serpentine and spiralise.
它已经冷却并结晶到这样的程度，当我和其他几个人一起坐在康斯坦丁的大浴缸前时，我发现它奇怪地凝结成块，在液体部分中到处滚动。我们的任务就是将这些肿块挤回液体中。这是一种甜蜜而虚伪的责任！难怪在古代，这种精子是如此受欢迎的化妆品。这样就更清晰了！这样的甜味剂！这样的软化剂！如此美味的润肤剂！我的手在里面只呆了几分钟，我的手指就感觉像鳗鱼一样，并且开始蜿蜒和螺旋状。

As I sat there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter exertion at the windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under indolent sail, and gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands among those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost within the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and discharged all their opulence, like fully ripe grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that uncontaminated aroma,—literally and truly, like the smell of spring violets; I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a musky meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in that inexpressible sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost began to credit the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in allaying the heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely free from all ill-will, or petulance, or malice, of any sort whatsoever.
当我盘腿坐在甲板上时；在绞盘上辛苦劳作之后；宁静的蓝色天空下；船在慵懒的帆下，如此平静地航行；当我把双手浸入那些柔软、温柔的渗透组织球中时，这些组织几乎在一小时内就编织好了；当它们在我的手指上丰富地破裂时，释放出它们所有的丰富性，就像完全成熟的葡萄它们的酒一样；当我吸灭那股未被污染的香气时——字面意义上的、真实的，就像春天紫罗兰的气味；我向你宣告，我当时的生活就像是在一片充满麝香的草地上；我忘记了我们可怕的誓言；在那难以形容的精液中，我洗掉了我的手和我的心；我几乎开始相信帕拉塞尔人的古老迷信，即精子在缓解愤怒方面具有罕见的功效。当我沐浴在那个浴缸中时，我感到神圣地摆脱了任何形式的恶意、任性或恶意。

Squeeze! squeeze! squeeze! all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm till I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a strange sort of insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly squeezing my co-laborers’ hands in it, mistaking their hands for the gentle globules. Such an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving feeling did this avocation beget; that at last I was continually squeezing their hands, and looking up into their eyes sentimentally; as much as to say,—Oh! my dear fellow beings, why should we longer cherish any social acerbities, or know the slightest ill-humor or envy! Come; let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all squeeze ourselves into each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and sperm of kindness.
挤！挤！挤！整个上午；我挤压那颗精子，直到我自己几乎融入其中；我挤压着精子，直到一种奇怪的疯狂袭上心头。我发现自己不知不觉地将同事的手挤在里面，误以为他们的手是温柔的小球。这种爱好产生了如此丰富的、深情的、友好的、爱的感觉。最后我不断地握着他们的手，感伤地抬头看着他们的眼睛。甚至可以说——哦！我亲爱的同胞们，我们何必再珍惜任何社交尖酸刻薄，或懂得一点点的恶意或嫉妒呢！来;让我们双手握拳；不，让我们大家挤在一起；让我们共同将自己挤入仁慈的乳汁和精液中。

Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever! For now, since by many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in all cases man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of attainable felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy; but in the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fireside, the country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready to squeeze case eternally. In thoughts of the visions of the night, I saw long rows of angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti.
要是我能永远继续挤压精子就好了！现在，通过许多长期的、重复的经验，我已经意识到，在所有情况下，人最终都必须降低或至少转变他对可以获得幸福的自负；不要把它放在智力或幻想的任何地方；而是在妻子、心、床、桌子、马鞍、炉边、乡村；既然我已经了解了这一切，我就准备好永远地挤压案子了。想着夜晚的异象，我看到天堂里有一排长长的天使，每个天使的手都放在一罐鲸蜡里。

Now, while discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things akin to it, in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the try-works.
现在，在谈论精子的同时，有必要谈论其他类似的事情，即为抹香鲸进行试验做准备。

First comes white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering part of the fish, and also from the thicker portions of his flukes. It is tough with congealed tendons—a wad of muscle—but still contains some oil. After being severed from the whale, the white-horse is first cut into portable oblongs ere going to the mincer. They look much like blocks of Berkshire marble.
首先是所谓的白马鱼，它是从鱼的锥形部分和鱼尾的较粗部分获得的。凝结的肌腱（一团肌肉）很坚硬，但仍然含有一些油。与鲸鱼分离后，白马首先被切成便携式长方形，然后进入绞肉机。它们看起来很像伯克希尔大理石块。

Plum-pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the whale’s flesh, here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and often participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness. It is a most refreshing, convivial, beautiful object to behold. As its name imports, it is of an exceedingly rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked snowy and golden ground, dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and purple. It is plums of rubies, in pictures of citron. Spite of reason, it is hard to keep yourself from eating it. I confess, that once I stole behind the foremast to try it. It tasted something as I should conceive a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might have tasted, supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.
李子布丁这个术语是指鲸鱼肉的某些碎片，这些碎片到处附着在鲸脂上，并且常常在很大程度上体现出鲸肉的油腻感。这是一个令人耳目一新、欢乐、美丽的物体。正如它的名字所暗示的那样，它有着极其丰富的斑驳色彩，有着斑驳的雪金色底色，点缀着深红色和紫色的斑点。它是红宝石的李子，在柚子的图片中。尽管有理由，但很难阻止自己不吃它。我承认，有一次我偷到前桅后面去尝试。假设他是在鹿肉季节结束后的第一天被杀的，而且那个特定的鹿肉季节与葡萄园异常优质的年份同时期，那么它的味道就像我想象的从路易·勒格罗大腿上取下的皇家炸肉排的味道一样。香槟酒。

There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in the course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling adequately to describe. It is called slobgollion; an appellation original with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance. It is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the tubs of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting. I hold it to be the wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case, coalescing.
还有另一种物质，而且是一种非常奇特的物质，它出现在这项业务的过程中，但我觉得对其进行充分的描述是非常令人费解的。它被称为 slobgollion；这是捕鲸人最初的称呼，而且这种物质的本质也是如此。它是一种难以言喻的、粘稠的、粘稠的物质，最常见于经过长时间挤压和随后倾析后的精子桶中。我认为它是外壳的极薄、破裂的薄膜，正在合并。

Gurry, so called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. It designates the dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of those inferior souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan.
所谓的“高利”（Gurry）是一个本来属于右鲸捕捞者的术语，但有时也被精子渔民偶然使用。它指的是从格陵兰鲸或露脊鲸背上刮下来的黑色粘性物质，其中大部分覆盖了那些猎杀卑鄙利维坦的低等灵魂的甲板。

Nippers. Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale’s vocabulary. But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman’s nipper is a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of Leviathan’s tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is about the size of the iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved along the oily deck, it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless blandishments, as of magic, allures along with it all impurities.
钳子。严格来说，这个词并不是鲸鱼的本土词汇。但根据捕鲸人的应用，事实就变成这样了。捕鲸者的钳子是从利维坦尾巴的锥形部分切下的一条短而坚固的腱状物质：其平均厚度为一英寸，其余部分的大小约为锄头的铁部分。它沿着油腻的甲板沿边移动，就像皮革橡皮泥一样；并通过无名的花言巧语，如魔法，引诱一切不洁。

But to learn all about these recondite matters, your best way is at once to descend into the blubber-room, and have a long talk with its inmates. This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle for the blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted from the whale. When the proper time arrives for cutting up its contents, this apartment is a scene of terror to all tyros, especially by night. On one side, lit by a dull lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. They generally go in pairs,—a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. The whaling-pike is similar to a frigate’s boarding-weapon of the same name. The gaff is something like a boat-hook. With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship pitches and lurches about. Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet itself, perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces. This spade is sharp as hone can make it; the spademan’s feet are shoeless; the thing he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from him, like a sledge. If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his assistants’, would you be very much astonished? Toes are scarce among veteran blubber-room men.
但要了解所有这些深奥的问题，最好的方法是立即走进鲸脂室，与里面的囚犯进行一次长谈。之前曾提到过，当毯子从鲸鱼身上剥离并吊起时，这个地方就是毯子碎片的容器。当切割其内容的适当时间到来时，这间公寓对所有新手来说都是一个恐怖的场景，尤其是在晚上。一侧被昏暗的灯笼照亮，为工人们留出了一块空地。他们通常成对出现——一个长矛手和一个铲子手。捕鲸矛类似于护卫舰的同名登船武器。鱼叉有点像船钩。船夫用鱼叉钩住一块鲸脂，并在船颠簸和摇晃时努力防止它滑落。与此同时，铲子站在床单上，垂直地将其切成便携式马匹。这把铲子非常锋利；铲子的脚没有穿鞋；他所站立的东西有时会像雪橇一样不可抗拒地从他身边滑落。如果他砍掉自己的一个脚趾，或者他助手的一个脚趾，你会感到非常惊讶吗？经验丰富的鲸脂室男人的脚趾很少。

Chapter 95
第95章

The Cassock.
袈裟。

Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a certain juncture of this post-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled forward nigh the windlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with no small curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have seen there, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers. Not the wondrous cistern in the whale’s huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower jaw; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so surprise you, as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone,—longer than a Kentuckian is tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and jet-black as Yojo, the ebony idol of Queequeg. And an idol, indeed, it is; or, rather, in old times, its likeness was. Such an idol as that found in the secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which, King Asa, her son, did depose her, and destroyed the idol, and burnt it for an abomination at the brook Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th chapter of the First Book of Kings.
你是否在鲸鱼尸检的某个时刻登上了“裴阔德”号？如果你在绞车附近漫步，我敢肯定你一定会怀着极大的好奇心扫视一个非常奇怪、神秘的物体，你会在那里看到它，它纵向躺在下风口的排水孔里。不是鲸鱼巨大头部里奇妙的水池；不是他那奇特的下颌神经错乱；不是他对称尾巴的奇迹；这些都不会比瞥见那个莫名其妙的圆锥体更让你感到惊讶——比肯塔基人高，底部直径接近一英尺​​，漆黑如魁魁格的乌木偶像尤乔。确实，它是一个偶像；或者更确切地说，在古代，它是相似的。在朱迪亚玛迦王后的秘密树林中发现的这样的神像；由于崇拜它，她的儿子亚撒王废黜了她，毁坏了偶像，并将其烧毁在汲沦溪边，作为可憎之事，正如《列王记上》第十五章中所黑暗地记载的那样。

Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted by two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it, and with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier carrying a dead comrade from the field. Extending it upon the forecastle deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an African hunter the pelt of a boa. This done he turns the pelt inside out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as almost to double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in the rigging, to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it. The mincer now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling. Immemorial to all his order, this investiture alone will adequately protect him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office.
看看那个被称为绞肉机的水手，他现在出现了，在两个盟友的协助下，沉重地背着水手们所说的“grandissimus”，弓着肩膀，摇摇晃晃地带着它走开，就好像他是一个背着死去战友的掷弹兵。来自外地。他将其延伸到艏楼甲板上，然后以圆柱形方式去除其黑色毛皮，就像非洲猎人去除蟒蛇的毛皮一样。完成后，他将毛皮翻过来，就像马裤腿一样；给予它良好的拉伸，使其直径几乎增加一倍；最后将其铺好，挂在索具上晾干。不久，它就被撤下了；当向尖头末端移去大约三英尺的地方，然后在另一端切出两条缝作为袖孔时，他将自己的身体纵向滑入其中。绞肉机现在站在你面前，了解他的职业的完整规范。对于他的所有勋章而言，仅此一项任命就足以在他履行其职务的特殊职能时充分保护他。

That office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the pots; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse, planted endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath it, into which the minced pieces drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt orator’s desk. Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit; intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what a lad for a Pope were this mincer!*
这项工作就是将马脂切碎，放入锅中。这项手术是在一匹奇怪的木马身上进行的，木马的一端靠在舷墙上，下面有一个宽敞的浴缸，切碎的碎片像全神贯注的演说家办公桌上的床单一样快速地落入其中。穿着得体的黑色；占据显眼的讲坛；专注于圣经叶子；这个绞肉机真是一个大主教的候选人，一个多么适合教皇的小伙子啊！*

*Bible leaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the mates to the mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as thin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of boiling out the oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably increased, besides perhaps improving it in quality.
*圣经离开！圣经离开！这是配偶向绞肉机发出的不变的叫声。它要求他要小心，并将他的工作切成尽可能薄的切片，因为这样做可以大大加快煮油的速度，并且除了可能提高质量之外，其数量也大大增加。

Chapter 96
第96章

The Try-Works.
尝试作品。

Besides her hoisted boats, an American whaler is outwardly distinguished by her try-works. She presents the curious anomaly of the most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the completed ship. It is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were transported to her planks.
除了举起的船只外，美国捕鲸船的外表还因她的尝试而闻名。她展示了最坚固的砖石与橡木和大麻的结合构成了完整的船的奇怪异常。就好像一座砖窑从空地上被运到了她的木板上。

The try-works are planted between the foremast and mainmast, the most roomy part of the deck. The timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength, fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height. The foundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly secured to the surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all sides, and screwing it down to the timbers. On the flanks it is cased with wood, and at top completely covered by a large, sloping, battened hatchway. Removing this hatch we expose the great try-pots, two in number, and each of several barrels’ capacity. When not in use, they are kept remarkably clean. Sometimes they are polished with soapstone and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls. During the night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and coil themselves away there for a nap. While employed in polishing them—one man in each pot, side by side—many confidential communications are carried on, over the iron lips. It is a place also for profound mathematical meditation. It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod, with the soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first indirectly struck by the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies gliding along the cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend from any point in precisely the same time.
试验装置位于前桅和主桅之间，这是甲板上最宽敞的部分。下面的木材具有特殊的强度，可以承受几乎坚固的砖块和砂浆的重量，大约十英尺乘八平方，高五英尺。地基不会穿透甲板，但砖石结构通过笨重的铁膝牢固地固定在表面上，铁膝从四面八方支撑着它，并将其拧到木材上。它的侧面用木头包裹，顶部完全被一个大的倾斜的板条舱口覆盖。拆掉这个舱口，我们就可以看到两个巨大的试炼罐，每个试炼罐都有几个桶的容量。不使用时，它们保持非常干净。有时，它们会用皂石和沙子抛光，直到它们像银色的潘趣酒碗一样闪闪发光。值夜时，一些愤世嫉俗的老水手会爬进里面，蜷缩起来打盹。在打磨它们的过程中——每个锅里都有一个人，肩并肩——许多机密的通讯都是通过铁唇进行的。它也是进行深刻数学冥想的地方。正是在裴阔德号的左手试验罐中，皂石在我周围勤奋地盘旋，我第一次间接地被一个显着的事实所震惊，即在几何学中，所有沿着摆线滑行的物体，例如我的皂石，都会从完全相同时间的任何点。

Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of the furnaces, directly underneath the pots. These mouths are fitted with heavy doors of iron. The intense heat of the fire is prevented from communicating itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir extending under the entire inclosed surface of the works. By a tunnel inserted at the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as fast as it evaporates. There are no external chimneys; they open direct from the rear wall. And here let us go back for a moment.
把试制正面的耐火板拆掉，那一侧裸露的砖石就暴露出来了，被炉子的两个铁口贯穿，就在锅子的正下方。这些嘴上装有厚重的铁门。通过在工程的整个封闭表面下延伸的浅水库，可以防止大火的高温传播到甲板上。通过插入后部的隧道，该水库能够以与蒸发一样快的速度补充水。没有外部烟囱；它们直接从后墙打开。让我们回顾一下。

It was about nine o’clock at night that the Pequod’s try-works were first started on this present voyage. It belonged to Stubb to oversee the business.
晚上九点左右，“裴阔德”号本次航行的试航工作首次开始。斯塔布负责监督业务。

‘All ready there? Off hatch, then, and start her. You cook, fire the works.’ This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrusting his shavings into the furnace throughout the passage. Here be it said that in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed for a time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means of quick ignition to the staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out, the crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still contains considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feed the flames. Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming misanthrope, once ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body. Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is horrible to inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but you must live in it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor about it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. It smells like the left wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the pit.
‘那里都准备好了吗？然后，关闭舱口，启动她。你做饭，生火。”这是一件容易的事，因为木匠在整个通道中一直把他的刨花塞进炉子里。据说，在捕鲸航行中，试验工厂中的第一堆火必须用木材来点燃一段时间。此后，除了作为快速点燃主燃料的手段外，不再使用木材。总而言之，经过试用后，这种松脆、干瘪的鲸脂，现在被称为碎片或油条，仍然含有相当多的油质特性。这些油条助长了火焰。就像一个过度燃烧的烈士，或者一个自我消耗的厌世者，一旦被点燃，鲸鱼就会提供自己的燃料并通过自己的身体燃烧。但愿他能吸掉自己的烟！因为他的烟很难吸入，而你必须吸入它，不仅如此，你还必须暂时生活在其中。它有一种难以形容的、狂野的印度气味，就像潜伏在火葬柴堆附近的气味一样。它闻起来像审判日的左翼；这是一个争论的坑。

By midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from the carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild ocean darkness was intense. But that darkness was licked up by the fierce flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek fire. The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to some vengeful deed. So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the bold Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad sheets of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and folded them in conflagrations.
到午夜时分，工程已全面投入使用。我们已经远离了尸体。帆已经做好了；风很清新。狂野的海洋一片漆黑。但那片黑暗被猛烈的火焰所吞噬，火焰时不时地从乌黑的烟道中喷出，照亮了索具上每根高高的绳索，就像著名的希腊火一样。燃烧的船继续行驶，仿佛无情地受命执行某种复仇行动。于是，勇敢的海德里奥特号、卡纳里斯号的沥青和硫磺运输双桅船，从午夜的港口出发，帆上挂着宽大的火焰，冲向土耳其护卫舰，并在大火中将它们折叠起来。

The hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide hearth in front of them. Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship’s stokers. With huge pronged poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or stirred up the fires beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out of the doors to catch them by the feet. The smoke rolled away in sullen heaps. To every pitch of the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil, which seemed all eagerness to leap into their faces. Opposite the mouth of the works, on the further side of the wide wooden hearth, was the windlass. This served for a sea-sofa. Here lounged the watch, when not otherwise employed, looking into the red heat of the fire, till their eyes felt scorched in their heads. Their tawny features, now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and the contrasting barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were strangely revealed in the capricious emblazonings of the works. As they narrated to each other their unholy adventures, their tales of terror told in words of mirth; as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them, like the flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the harpooneers wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers; as the wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness of the sea and the night, and scornfully champed the white bone in her mouth, and viciously spat round her on all sides; then the rushing Pequod, freighted with savages, and laden with fire, and burning a corpse, and plunging into that blackness of darkness, seemed the material counterpart of her monomaniac commander’s soul.
从工厂顶部拆除的舱口现在在他们面前提供了一个宽阔的壁炉。站在上面的是异教徒鱼叉手的鞑靼形状，他们总是捕鲸船上的司炉。他们用巨大的尖头杆子把嘶嘶作响的鲸脂扔进滚烫的锅里，或者搅动下面的火，直到蛇形的火焰卷曲地冲出门外，抓住他们的脚。烟雾阴沉地滚滚而去。船的每一个倾斜处都有一处沸腾的油，似乎都渴望跳到他们的脸上。工厂入口的对面，宽阔的木壁炉的另一边，是卷扬机。这是一个海上沙发。当不做其他事时，值班人员就懒洋洋地躺在这里，看着炽热的火光，直到他们的眼睛感到头被烧焦。他们黄褐色的面容现在都被烟尘和汗水弄脏了，他们乱蓬蓬的胡须，还有对比鲜明的野蛮光彩的牙齿，所有这些都在作品反复无常的装饰中奇怪地显现出来。 当他们互相讲述他们邪恶的冒险经历时，他们用欢乐的话语讲述着他们的恐怖故事。他们不文明的笑声从他们身上发出，就像熔炉中的火焰一样；在他们的前面，标枪手们用巨大的叉子和铲子疯狂地打着手势。风呼啸而过，大海翻腾，船呻吟着俯冲，但坚定不移地将她的红色地狱射入大海和黑夜的黑暗中，轻蔑地咀嚼着她嘴里的白骨，恶毒地向她四面吐唾沫；然后，奔腾而来的佩阔德号，载满了野蛮人，满载着火焰，焚烧着尸体，陷入了黑暗的黑暗中，似乎是她偏执的指挥官灵魂的物质对应物。

So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm, and for long hours silently guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea. Wrapped, for that interval, in darkness myself, I but the better saw the redness, the madness, the ghastliness of others. The continual sight of the fiend shapes before me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these at last begat kindred visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to that unaccountable drowsiness which ever would come over me at a midnight helm.
当我站在她的掌舵处，长时间默默地引导这艘火船在海上航行时，我也觉得是这样。在那段时间里，我自己被包裹在黑暗中，但我更好地看到了其他人的红色、疯狂和可怕。恶魔不断地出现在我面前，一半在烟雾中，一半在火焰中跳跃，这些最终在我的灵魂中产生了相似的幻象，当我开始屈服于那种在午夜掌舵时总会出现在我身上的无法解释的睡意时。

But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable) thing occurred to me. Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was horribly conscious of something fatally wrong. The jaw-bone tiller smote my side, which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of sails, just beginning to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically stretching them still further apart. But, spite of all this, I could see no compass before me to steer by; though it seemed but a minute since I had been watching the card, by the steady binnacle lamp illuminating it. Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now and then made ghastly by flashes of redness. Uppermost was the impression, that whatever swift, rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to any haven ahead as rushing from all havens astern. A stark, bewildered feeling, as of death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped the tiller, but with the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, in some enchanted way, inverted. My God! what is the matter with me? thought I. Lo! in my brief sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the ship’s stern, with my back to her prow and the compass. In an instant I faced back, just in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and very probably capsizing her. How glad and how grateful the relief from this unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being brought by the lee!
但那天晚上，我突然发生了一件奇怪的（而且至今无法解释的）事情。从短暂的站立睡眠开始，我可怕地意识到有什么致命的错误。颚骨舵柄击中了我靠在它上面的一侧；我耳边传来船帆的低沉嗡嗡声，刚刚开始在风中摇晃。我以为我的眼睛是睁开的；我下意识地把手指放在眼睑上，机械地把它们拉得更远。但是，尽管如此，我还是看不到我面前的指南针可以指引方向。不过，自从我观察这张牌以来，似乎只有一分钟了，因为罗经柜上稳定的灯照亮了它。我的面前似乎什么也没有，只有一片昏暗的光线，时不时地会出现一抹红色的闪光，显得十分可怕。最重要的是，无论我站在什么快速、急流的东西上，与其说是与前面的任何避风港联系在一起，不如说是从后面的所有避风港冲来的。一种强烈的、困惑的感觉笼罩着我，就像死亡一样。我的手痉挛地抓住了舵柄，但我疯狂地以为舵柄不知何故以某种神奇的方式倒置了。我的上帝！我怎么了？我想，瞧！在短暂的睡眠中，我翻了个身，面向船尾，背对着船头和罗盘。我立刻向后仰去，正好阻止了船迎风飞起，很可能会倾覆。摆脱了夜晚这种不自然的幻觉，以及背风带来的致命意外，是多么令人高兴和感激啊！

Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thy hand on the helm! Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the first hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when its redness makes all things look ghastly. To-morrow, in the natural sun, the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking flames, the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the glorious, golden, glad sun, the only true lamp—all others but liars!
哦伙计，不要在火焰面前看得太久！永远不要把手放在舵上做梦！不要背对罗盘；接受挂接舵柄的第一个提示；不要相信人造火，它的红色使一切看起来都很可怕。明天，在自然的阳光下，天空将是明亮的；那些在分叉的火焰中像魔鬼一样怒目而视的人，黎明将展现出另一种至少是温和的解脱。光荣、金色、快乐的太阳，唯一真正的灯——除了骗子之外，其他一切都不是！

Nevertheless the sun hides not Virginia’s Dismal Swamp, nor Rome’s accursed Campagna, nor wide Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of deserts and of griefs beneath the moon. The sun hides not the ocean, which is the dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of this earth. So, therefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow in him, that mortal man cannot be true—not true, or undeveloped. With books the same. The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows, and the truest of all books is Solomon’s, and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered steel of woe. ‘All is vanity.’ ALL. This wilful world hath not got hold of unchristian Solomon’s wisdom yet. But he who dodges hospitals and jails, and walks fast crossing graveyards, and would rather talk of operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils all of sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais as passing wise, and therefore jolly;—not that man is fitted to sit down on tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably wondrous Solomon.
然而，太阳掩盖不了弗吉尼亚的惨淡沼泽，也掩盖不了罗马可恶的平原，也掩盖不了广阔的撒哈拉沙漠，也掩盖不了月光下数百万英里的沙漠和悲伤。太阳遮不住海洋，海洋是地球的阴暗面，占地球的三分之二。因此，凡人内心的欢乐多于悲伤，这个凡人不可能是真实的——不是真实的，也不是未发展的。与书同理。最真实的人是《忧伤之人》，最真实的书是所罗门的书，而《传道书》是苦难的精钢。 “一切都是虚空。”一切。这个任性的世界还没有掌握非基督徒所罗门的智慧。但他避开医院和监狱，快步穿过墓地，宁愿谈论歌剧也不愿谈论地狱；称考珀、杨格、帕斯卡、卢梭为可怜的魔鬼，全都是病人；在无忧无虑的一生中，拉伯雷发誓说他是智慧的过客，因此是快乐的；——不是那个人适合坐在墓碑上，与深不可测的奇妙所罗门一起打破绿色潮湿的霉菌。

But even Solomon, he says, ‘the man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain’ (I.E., even while living) ‘in the congregation of the dead.’ Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it invert thee, deaden thee; as for the time it did me. There is a wisdom that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness. And there is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces. And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar.
但即使是所罗门，他也说，“偏离理解之道的人将留在死者的会众中”（即，即使在活着的时候）。那么，不要把自己交给火，以免它颠倒过来。你，使你死气沉沉；至于它对我造成的时间。有一种智慧是祸患；但有一种祸害就是疯狂。有些灵魂中有一只卡茨基尔鹰，它们同样可以潜入最黑暗的峡谷，然后再次飞出峡谷，在阳光明媚的空间中变得隐形。即使他永远在峡谷中飞行，那峡谷也在山中；因此，即使在最低的俯冲中，山鹰仍然比平原上的其他鸟类高，尽管它们在翱翔。

Chapter 97
第97章

The Lamp.
灯。

Had you descended from the Pequod’s try-works to the Pequod’s forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping, for one single moment you would have almost thought you were standing in some illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors. There they lay in their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a score of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.
如果你从“裴阔德”号的试炼车间下降到“裴阔德”号的艏楼，下班值班的值班人员正在那里睡觉，有那么一刻，你几乎会以为自己正站在某个被册封的国王和谋士的灯火通明的圣殿里。他们躺在三角形的橡木拱顶里，每个水手都沉默寡言。二十盏灯在他蒙着眼睛的地方闪烁。

In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of queens. To dress in the dark, and eat in the dark, and stumble in darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot. But the whaleman, as he seeks the food of light, so he lives in light. He makes his berth an Aladdin’s lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest night the ship’s black hull still houses an illumination.
在商船中，水手的石油比女王的牛奶更稀缺。在黑暗中穿衣，在黑暗中吃饭，在黑暗中跌跌撞撞地走向自己的床铺，这是他惯常的命运。但捕鲸者，当他寻找光的食物时，他就生活在光中。他把他的床铺做成一盏阿拉丁神灯，把他放在里面。因此，在最漆黑的夜晚，船的黑色船体仍然装有照明。

See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of lamps—often but old bottles and vials, though—to the copper cooler at the try-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale at a vat. He burns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore, unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astral contrivances ashore. It is sweet as early grass butter in April. He goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own supper of game.
看看捕鲸人是多么自由地把他的一把灯——尽管通常都是旧瓶子和小瓶——带到试炼厂的铜冷却器里，然后在那里补充它们，就像在大桶里装几杯麦芽酒一样。他还燃烧最纯净的油，处于未加工状态，因此未受污染。岸上的太阳、月球或星体装置未知的流体。甜如四月的早草黄油。他去寻找他的油，以确保其新鲜和真实，就像草原上的旅行者寻找自己的野味晚餐一样。

Chapter 98
第98章

Stowing Down and Clearing Up.
收起和清理。

Already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off descried from the mast-head; how he is chased over the watery moors, and slaughtered in the valleys of the deep; how he is then towed alongside and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled the headsman of old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed) his great padded surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, in due time, he is condemned to the pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed through the fire;—but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of the description by rehearsing—singing, if I may—the romantic proceeding of decanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into the hold, where once again leviathan returns to his native profundities, sliding along beneath the surface as before; but, alas! never more to rise and blow.
前面已经提到过，巨大的利维坦是如何从桅杆顶端远远地看到的。他如何在多水的荒原上被追赶，在深谷中被屠杀；然后他如何被拖到一边并被斩首；以及（根据古代刽子手有权获得被斩首者被杀时所穿衣服的原则）他的大衬垫外套如何成为刽子手的财产？在适当的时候，他如何被判入锅中，并且像沙得拉、米煞和亚伯尼歌一样，他的鲸蜡、油和骨头毫发无伤地穿过火；——但现在还需要结束这一部分的最后一章。通过排练——如果可以的话，唱歌——浪漫的过程来描述，将他的油倒入木桶中，然后将它们打入货舱，在那里，利维坦再次回到他原来的深处，像以前一样在水面下滑行；可惜！再也不会上升和吹动。

While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling this way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed round and headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot across the slippery deck, like so many land slides, till at last man-handled and stayed in their course; and all round the hoops, rap, rap, go as many hammers as can play upon them, for now, EX OFFICIO, every sailor is a cooper.
当油还热的时候，就像热潘趣酒一样，被接收到六桶桶中；也许，当船在午夜的大海中左右摇晃时，巨大的木桶会头尾相接，有时会危险地滑过湿滑的甲板，就像许多滑坡一样，直到最后由人工控制并保持在其航线上。在篮圈周围，说唱，说唱，尽可能多地敲击它们，现在，当然，每个水手都是桶匠。

At length, when the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great hatchways are unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, and down go the casks to their final rest in the sea. This done, the hatches are replaced, and hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.
最后，当最后一品脱酒被装桶，一切都凉爽时，巨大的舱口就会打开，船的内部被打开，木桶就会沉入大海，最后安息。完成后，舱口被更换并密封关闭，就像一个用墙围起来的壁橱一样。

In the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkable incidents in all the business of whaling. One day the planks stream with freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred quarter-deck enormous masses of the whale’s head are profanely piled; great rusty casks lie about, as in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has besooted all the bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness; the entire ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din is deafening.
在精子捕捞中，这可能是所有捕鲸业中最引人注目的事件之一。有一天，木板上沾满了新鲜的血和油；在神圣的尾甲板上，巨大的鲸头被亵渎地堆放着。生锈的大木桶散落在各处，就像在啤酒厂的院子里一样。试炼厂冒出的浓烟已经熏黑了所有的舷墙。水手们充满了油腻的行为。整艘船看起来就像是巨大的利维坦本人；所有人的喧闹声都震耳欲聋。

But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears in this self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and try-works, you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel, with a most scrupulously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm oil possesses a singularly cleansing virtue. This is the reason why the decks never look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil. Besides, from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent lye is readily made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale remains clinging to the side, that lye quickly exterminates it. Hands go diligently along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags restore them to their full tidiness. The soot is brushed from the lower rigging. All the numerous implements which have been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put away. The great hatch is scrubbed and placed upon the try-works, completely hiding the pots; every cask is out of sight; all tackles are coiled in unseen nooks; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry of almost the entire ship’s company, the whole of this conscientious duty is at last concluded, then the crew themselves proceed to their own ablutions; shift themselves from top to toe; and finally issue to the immaculate deck, fresh and all aglow, as bridegrooms new-leaped from out the daintiest Holland.
但一两天后，你环顾四周，在这艘同一艘船上竖起耳朵；如果没有那些泄露秘密的船只和试炼工厂，你几乎会发誓，你踩的是一艘安静的商船，有一位极其严谨整洁的指挥官。未加工的鲸油具有独特的清洁功效。这就是为什么甲板看起来从来没有像他们所谓的石油事件之后那么白的原因。此外，鲸鱼燃烧残骸的灰烬很容易制成强效碱液。每当鲸鱼背部的任何粘附物仍然粘在侧面时，碱液就会很快将其消灭。人们勤奋地沿着舷墙清理，并用一桶桶水和抹布将它们恢复到原来的整洁状态。烟灰从下部索具上刷掉。所有使用过的众多工具也同样被忠实地清洗和收起。大舱口被擦洗干净并放置在试验台上，完全隐藏了罐子；每个木桶都看不见；所有的铲车都盘绕在看不见的角落里；当几乎整个船队齐心协力、同时努力，最终完成了全部这一认真的职责时，船员们就开始各自的沐浴。从头到脚改变自己；最后，当新郎从最精致的荷兰飞跃而出时，来到完美无瑕的甲板上，焕然一新，容光焕发。

Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and humorously discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics; propose to mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top; object not to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint to such musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short of audacity. They know not the thing you distantly allude to. Away, and bring us napkins!
现在，他们三三两两迈着兴高采烈的步伐在木板上踱步，幽默地谈论着客厅、沙发、地毯和细麻布。建议在甲板上铺垫子；想象自己已经挂在了顶端；反对不要在月光下在艏楼的广场上喝茶。向这些带着麝香的水手暗示油、骨头和鲸脂，简直就是大胆。他们不知道你隐约提到的事情。走开，给我们拿餐巾纸来！

But mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intent on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again soil the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot somewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest uninterrupted labors, which know no night; continuing straight through for ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their wrists with all day rowing on the Line,—they only step to the deck to carry vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, yea, and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try-works; when, on the heel of all this, they have finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is the time the poor fellows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks, are startled by the cry of ‘There she blows!’ and away they fly to fight another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again. Oh! my friends, but this is man-killing! Yet this is life. For hardly have we mortals by long toilings extracted from this world’s vast bulk its small but valuable sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansed ourselves from its defilements, and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul; hardly is this done, when—THERE SHE BLOWS!—the ghost is spouted up, and away we sail to fight some other world, and go through young life’s old routine again.
但请注意：在高处的三个桅杆头处，站着三个人，他们一心想侦察更多的鲸鱼，如果被抓住，它们肯定会再次弄脏旧橡木家具，并在某处至少留下一个小油渍。是的;很多时候，在最艰苦、不间断的劳动之后，不知道黑夜；连续九十六个小时；当他们从船上下来时，他们整天在线上划船，手腕都肿了——他们只是走到甲板上，携带巨大的链条，举起沉重的卷扬机，砍砍砍杀，是的，在他们满头大汗的情况下，被赤道太阳和赤道试验场的联合火焰再次熏烧；紧接着这一切之后，他们终于鼓起勇气清理了这艘船，并用它建造了一个一尘不染的奶制品室。很多时候，这些可怜的家伙，刚扣上干净衣服的领子，就会被“她吹了！”的叫声吓到，然后飞走去与另一只鲸鱼战斗，然后再次经历整个令人疲惫的事情。哦！我的朋友们，但这就是杀人！但这就是生活。因为我们凡人很难通过长期的辛劳从这个世界的巨大体积中提取出微小但有价值的精子；然后，带着疲惫的耐心，净化我们自己的污秽，并学会生活在干净的灵魂圣殿中。这一切还没完成，就在——她爆炸了！——鬼魂喷了出来，我们扬帆远航去与另一个世界作战，再次经历年轻生命的旧例行公事。

Oh! the metempsychosis! Oh! Pythagoras, that in bright Greece, two thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I sailed with thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage—and, foolish as I am, taught thee, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!
哦！轮回！哦！毕达哥拉斯，两千多年前，死在光明的希腊，他是那么善良，那么睿智，那么温和；上一次航行，我和你一起沿着秘鲁海岸航行——尽管我很愚蠢，但我还是教了你，一个单纯的绿色男孩，如何拼接绳子！

Chapter 99
第99章

The Doubloon.
达布隆。

Ere now it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter-deck, taking regular turns at either limit, the binnacle and mainmast; but in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not been added how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in his mood, he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there strangely eyeing the particular object before him. When he halted before the binnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass, that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his purpose; and when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast, then, as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin there, he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness, only dashed with a certain wild longing, if not hopefulness.
在此之前，人们已经提到亚哈习惯于在他的尾甲板上踱步，在任一极限处、罗经柜和主桅上定期轮流。但是，在需要叙述的其他事情的多样性中，没有补充说，有时在这些散步中，当他最情绪化时，他习惯于在每个地方轮流停下来，站在那里奇怪地看着他面前的特定物体。当他在罗经柜前停下来，目光紧盯着罗盘上的尖针时，那一瞥像标枪一样射出，带着他强烈的目的；当继续行走时，他又在主桅前停了下来，然后，当同样的目光集中在那枚铆接的金币上时，他仍然表现出同样坚定的表情，只是带着某种狂野的渴望，如果不是希望的话。

But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed to be newly attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it, as though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them. And some certain significance lurks in all things, else all things are little worth, and the round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell by the cartload, as they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in the Milky Way.
但有一天早上，当他转身传递达布隆时，他似乎又被上面印着的奇怪数字和铭文所吸引，仿佛现在第一次开始以某种偏执的方式为自己解释其中可能潜藏的意义。所有事物都潜藏着某种特定的意义，否则所有事物都毫无价值，而圆形世界本身也不过是一个空洞的密码，除非像波士顿周围的山丘那样成车出售，以填补银河系中的一些沼泽。

Now this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of the heart of gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, the head-waters of many a Pactolus flows. And though now nailed amidst all the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet, untouchable and immaculate to any foulness, it still preserved its Quito glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour passed by ruthless hands, and through the livelong nights shrouded with thick darkness which might cover any pilfering approach, nevertheless every sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For it was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and however wanton in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as the white whale’s talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch by night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he would ever live to spend it.
现在，这个达布隆是最纯净的原始黄金，从美丽的山丘中心的某个地方挖出来，从那里，东西方，在金色的沙滩上，有许多帕克托洛斯河的源头。尽管现在被钉在铁螺栓的生锈和铜钉的铜锈之中，但它仍然保持着基多的光芒，无法触及，没有任何污秽。尽管置身于一群无情的船员之中，每一个小时都在无情的手中流逝，并且度过了被厚厚的黑暗笼罩着的漫长夜晚，这可能会掩盖任何偷窃行为，但每次日出都会在日落最后留下的地方找到达布隆。因为它被分别出来并神圣化，其目的是为了一个令人惊叹的目的；无论水手们的行为多么放肆，水手们都将它视为白鲸的护身符。有时，他们会在夜里疲惫的守夜时讨论这件事，想知道最后会是谁的，以及他是否能活着花掉这笔钱。

Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sun and tropic token-pieces. Here palms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun’s disks and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich banners waving, are in luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold seems almost to derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by passing through those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.
如今，南美洲那些高贵的金币已成为太阳勋章和热带纪念品。这里有棕榈树、羊驼和火山；太阳的圆盘和恒星；黄道、丰饶之角、富丽旗帜飘扬，印章繁茂；因此，珍贵的黄金在经过那些别致的薄荷糖时，似乎获得了额外的珍贵和增强的荣耀，如此西班牙诗意。

It so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example of these things. On its round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a country planted in the middle of the world, and beneath the great equator, and named after it; and it had been cast midway up the Andes, in the unwaning clime that knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw the likeness of three Andes’ summits; from one a flame; a tower on another; on the third a crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment of the partitioned zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual cabalistics, and the keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra.
很巧的是，“裴阔德”号的达布隆就是这些东西中最富有的例子。其圆形边框上刻有字母：厄瓜多尔共和国：基多。因此，这枚明亮的硬币来自一个位于世界中部、大赤道下方的国家，并以它的名字命名；它是在安第斯山脉中部铸造的，气候永不停息，没有秋天。通过这些字母，你可以看到三座安第斯山峰的相似之处；从一处发出火焰；一座塔叠在另一座塔上；第三个是公鸡打鸣；拱形上方是划分的黄道带的一部分，所有星座都标有其通常的神秘学，并且关键太阳进入天秤座的春分点。

Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now pausing.
亚哈在这枚赤道硬币面前停了下来，其他人也注意到了这一点。

‘There’s something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and all other grand and lofty things; look here,—three peaks as proud as Lucifer. The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the courageous, the undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all are Ahab; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe, which, like a magician’s glass, to each and every man in turn but mirrors back his own mysterious self. Great pains, small gains for those who ask the world to solve them; it cannot solve itself. Methinks now this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but see! aye, he enters the sign of storms, the equinox! and but six months before he wheeled out of a former equinox at Aries! From storm to storm! So be it, then. Born in throes, ‘t is fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs! So be it, then! Here’s stout stuff for woe to work on. So be it, then.’
“山顶和塔楼以及所有其他宏伟而崇高的事物中总是有一些自负的东西；看这里，三座像路西法一样骄傲的山峰。坚固的塔，就是亚哈；火山，那就是亚哈；勇敢、无畏、胜利的飞鸟，也是亚哈。都是亚哈；而这个圆形的金色只不过是圆形地球仪的图像，它就像魔术师的玻璃一样，依次映照着每个人自己神秘的自我。对于那些要求世界解决问题的人来说，付出很大的努力，收获却很小；它无法自行解决。我想现在这个创造出来的太阳有着一张红润的脸；但看！是的，他进入了暴风雨的星座，春分！就在他离开白羊座的前春分点之前六个月！从风暴到风暴！那就这样吧。人生于痛苦之中，生于痛苦之中，死于痛苦之中，理所应当！那就这样吧！这里有很多值得我们去努力的东西。那就这样吧。

‘No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil’s claws must have left their mouldings there since yesterday,’ murmured Starbuck to himself, leaning against the bulwarks. ‘The old man seems to read Belshazzar’s awful writing. I have never marked the coin inspectingly. He goes below; let me read. A dark valley between three mighty, heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint earthly symbol. So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over all our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a hope. If we bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil; but if we lift them, the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer. Yet, oh, the great sun is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain snatch some sweet solace from him, we gaze for him in vain! This coin speaks wisely, mildly, truly, but still sadly to me. I will quit it, lest Truth shake me falsely.’
“仙女的手指无法压下金子，但从昨天起，魔鬼的爪子一定把它们的造型留在那里了，”斯塔巴克靠在舷墙上自言自语道。 ‘这位老人似乎读过伯沙撒的可怕著作。我从来没有检查过硬币。他走到下面；让我读一下。一座黑暗的山谷，坐落在三座雄伟、神圣的山峰之间，在某种微弱的尘世象征中，它们几乎看起来像是三位一体。因此，在这死亡之谷，上帝为我们束紧；在我们所有的忧郁之上，正义的阳光仍然闪耀着一盏灯塔和希望。如果我们低下眼睛，黑暗的山谷就会露出她发霉的土壤；但如果我们举起它们，明亮的阳光会在半空中与我们的目光相遇，欢呼雀跃。然而，哦，伟大的太阳并不是固定的；即使在午夜，我们想从他那里得到一些甜蜜的安慰，我们也徒劳地凝视他！这枚硬币的言辞明智、温和、真实，但对我来说仍然令人悲伤。我会放弃它，以免真理错误地动摇我。

‘There now’s the old Mogul,’ soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, ‘he’s been twigging it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with faces which I should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long. And all from looking at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on Negro Hill or in Corlaer’s Hook, I’d not look at it very long ere spending it. Humph! in my poor, insignificant opinion, I regard this as queer. I have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings; your doubloons of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, your doubloons of Chili, your doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of Popayan; with plenty of gold moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, and quarter joes. What then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing wonderful? By Golconda! let me read it once. Halloa! here’s signs and wonders truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I’ll get the almanac and as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll’s arithmetic, I’ll try my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with the Massachusetts calendar. Here’s the book. Let’s see now. Signs and wonders; and the sun, he’s always among ‘em. Hem, hem, hem; here they are—here they go—all alive:—Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull and Jimimi! here’s Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he wheels among ‘em. Aye, here on the coin he’s just crossing the threshold between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring. Book! you lie there; the fact is, you books must know your places. You’ll do to give us the bare words and facts, but we come in to supply the thoughts. That’s my small experience, so far as the Massachusetts calendar, and Bowditch’s navigator, and Daboll’s arithmetic go. Signs and wonders, eh? Pity if there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in wonders! There’s a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist—hark! By Jove, I have it! Look you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter; and now I’ll read it off, straight out of the book. Come, Almanack! To begin: there’s Aries, or the Ram—lecherous dog, he begets us; then, Taurus, or the Bull—he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the Twins—that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo! comes Cancer the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Leo, a roaring Lion, lies in the path—he gives a few fierce bites and surly dabs with his paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin! that’s our first love; we marry and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes Libra, or the Scales—happiness weighed and found wanting; and while we are very sad about that, Lord! how we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the Scorpion, stings us in the rear; we are curing the wound, when whang come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the Archer, is amusing himself. As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside! here’s the battering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing, and headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours out his whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the Fishes, we sleep. There’s a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the sun goes through it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and hearty. Jollily he, aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and so, alow here, does jolly Stubb. Oh, jolly’s the word for aye! Adieu, Doubloon! But stop; here comes little King-Post; dodge round the try-works, now, and let’s hear what he’ll have to say. There; he’s before it; he’ll out with something presently. So, so; he’s beginning.’
“现在是老大亨了，”尝试工厂旁的斯塔布自言自语道，“他一直在扭动它；星巴克也从同一个地方出发，我应该说，两者的脸都在九英寻长之内。所有这一切都来自于看一块金子，我现在在黑人山或科莱尔的胡克拥有它，我不会看它很长时间就花掉它。哼!以我可怜的、微不足道的看法，我认为这是奇怪的。我以前在航行中见过达布隆；你的旧西班牙达布隆，你的秘鲁达布隆，你的辣椒达布隆，你的玻利维亚达布隆，你的波帕扬达布隆；有大量的金莫伊多尔和手枪，还有乔斯、半乔斯和四分之一乔斯。那么，赤道上的这个达布隆到底有什么东西如此令人惊叹呢？戈尔康达！让我读一遍。喊叫！这确实是神迹奇事！现在，这就是老鲍迪奇在他的《缩影》中所说的黄道带，我下面的年鉴也称之为同上。我会拿到年历，因为我听说达博尔的算术可以养出魔鬼，所以我会尝试用马萨诸塞州的日历从这些奇怪的曲线中找出意义。这是书。现在让我们看看。神迹奇事；还有太阳，他总是在他们中间。下摆，下摆，下摆；他们在这里——他们走了——都活着：——白羊座，或白羊座；金牛座，或者公牛和吉米！这是双子座本人，或者说是双胞胎。出色地;太阳在他们中间转动。是的，在硬币上，他刚刚跨过十二个起居室中的两个起居室之间的门槛，所有起居室都呈环形。书！你躺在那里；事实上，你的书必须知道你的位置。您只需向我们提供简单的文字和事实，但我们会提供想法。就马萨诸塞州的日历、鲍迪奇的导航仪和达博尔的算术而言，这就是我的一点经验。 神迹奇事，是吗？如果征兆中没有什么奇妙的东西，奇迹中没有什么重要的东西，那就太遗憾了！某处有一条线索；稍等一会;历史——听！天啊，我已经拥有了！看看你，杜布隆，你的生肖在这里是人类一生的一章；现在我将直接从书中读出它。来吧，年鉴！首先：白羊座，或者说是白羊座——好色的狗，他生下了我们；然后，金牛座，或者说公牛——他首先撞到我们；然后是双子座，或双胞胎——即美德和恶行；我们试图达到美德，当瞧！巨蟹座来了，把我们拖了回来；在这里，狮子座，一头咆哮的狮子，从美德出发，躺在路上——他猛烈地咬了几口，用爪子粗暴地拍了几下；我们逃脱了，向处女座致敬，处女座！那是我们的初恋；当天秤座或天秤座流行起来时，我们结婚并认为幸福是对的，幸福感被衡量后发现缺乏；虽然我们对此感到非常难过，主啊！当天蝎座或蝎子从后面蜇我们时，我们如何突然跳起来；我们正在治疗伤口，突然箭矢射来；射手座，或者说射手座，正在自娱自乐。当我们拔出轴时，站在一边！这是攻城槌、摩羯座或山羊；他全速冲过来，我们被抛得一头雾水；当水瓶座，或水瓶座，倾泻出他的全部洪水并淹没我们时；最后，我们和双鱼座或双鱼座一起睡觉。现在有一篇布道，写在高天上，太阳每年都会经过它，但从它出来时却充满活力和热情。他在高处快乐地度过辛劳和麻烦；快活的斯塔布也在这儿。哦，“快乐”这个词就是“是”的意思！再见，达布隆！但停下来；小国王波斯特来了；现在，避开尝试工作，让我们听听他会说什么。 那里;他在它前面；他很快就会拿出一些东西。一般般;他正在开始。’

‘I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, and whoever raises a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him. So, what’s all this staring been about? It is worth sixteen dollars, that’s true; and at two cents the cigar, that’s nine hundred and sixty cigars. I won’t smoke dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and here’s nine hundred and sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy ‘em out.’
“我在这里什么也没看到，只有一个金制的圆形物体，无论谁养了某条鲸鱼，这个圆形物体就属于他。那么，大家这么盯着看是为了什么呢？它值十六美元，这是事实；两美分的雪茄，就是九百六十支雪茄。我不会像斯塔布那样抽肮脏的烟斗，但我喜欢雪茄，这里有九百六十支；所以 Flask 会升到高处去监视他们。

‘Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a foolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort of wiseish look to it. But, avast; here comes our old Manxman—the old hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea. He luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side of the mast; why, there’s a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he’s back again; what does that mean? Hark! he’s muttering—voice like an old worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!’
“现在我该说这是明智的还是愚蠢的？”如果它真的很聪明，那么它看起来却很愚蠢；然而，如果它真的很愚蠢，那就有一种明智的看法。但是，阿瓦斯特；我们的老马恩岛人来了——他一定是个老灵车司机，也就是说，在他出海之前。他在达布隆面前气喘吁吁；哈洛亚，绕到桅杆的另一边；哎呀，那边钉着一个马蹄铁；现在他又回来了；这意味着什么？听着！他在咕哝——声音就像一台破旧的咖啡磨。竖起耳朵，听听！

‘If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when the sun stands in some one of these signs. I’ve studied signs, and know their marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witch in Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will the sun then be? The horse-shoe sign; for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what’s the horse-shoe sign? The lion is the horse-shoe sign—the roaring and devouring lion. Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee.’
“如果白鲸被升起，那一定是在一个月零一天之后，当太阳站在这些星座中的某个星座时。我研究过符号，知道它们的标记；两年前，哥本哈根的老巫婆教了我这些知识。现在，太阳将处于什么星座？马蹄形标志；因为它就在那里，就在黄金的对面。马蹄形标志是什么？狮子是马蹄形的标志——咆哮和吞噬的狮子。船，老船！我的老头一想到你就摇晃。

‘There’s another rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men in one kind of world, you see. Dodge again! here comes Queequeg—all tattooing—looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself. What says the Cannibal? As I live he’s comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone; thinks the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I suppose, as the old women talk Surgeon’s Astronomy in the back country. And by Jove, he’s found something there in the vicinity of his thigh—I guess it’s Sagittarius, or the Archer. No: he don’t know what to make of the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king’s trowsers. But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail coiled out of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual. What does he say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to the sign and bows himself; there is a sun on the coin—fire worshipper, depend upon it. Ho! more and more. This way comes Pip—poor boy! would he had died, or I; he’s half horrible to me. He too has been watching all of these interpreters—myself included—and look now, he comes to read, with that unearthly idiot face. Stand away again and hear him. Hark!’
‘现在还有另一个渲染图；但仍然是一篇文字。你看，同一个世界里有各种各样的人。再次闪避！奎奎格来了——全身都有纹身——看起来就像十二宫本身的标志。食人者怎么说？在我活着的时候，他正在交换笔记；看着他的大腿骨；我想，太阳是在大腿里，或者在小腿里，或者在肠道里，就像边远地区的老妇人谈论外科医生的天文学一样。天哪，他在大腿附近发现了一些东西——我猜是射手座，或者弓箭手。不：他不知道如何处理达布隆；他把它当成某个国王裤子上的旧纽扣。但是，再说一遍！幽灵魔鬼费达拉来了；尾巴像往常一样卷起来，看不见，泵的脚趾上像往常一样有橡子。他那副表情在说什么？啊，只对着牌子打了个手势，鞠了一躬；硬币上有一个太阳——火崇拜者，相信它。嗬！越来越多。皮普从这边来了——可怜的孩子！他会死吗，或者我会死吗？他对我来说有点可怕。他也一直在观察所有这些翻译——包括我自己——现在看，他开始阅读，带着那张超凡脱俗的白痴脸。再次站开，听他说。听着！

‘I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.’
‘我看，你看，他看；我们看，你们看，他们看。

‘Upon my soul, he’s been studying Murray’s Grammar! Improving his mind, poor fellow! But what’s that he says now—hist!’
“以我的灵魂发誓，他一直在学习默里语法！”提高他的思想吧，可怜的家伙！但他现在说什么——他的！

‘I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.’
‘我看，你看，他看；我们看，你们看，他们看。

‘Why, he’s getting it by heart—hist! again.’
‘哎呀，他已经熟记在心了——哎呀！再次。'

‘I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look.’
‘我看，你看，他看；我们看，你们看，他们看。

‘Well, that’s funny.’
“嗯，这很有趣。”

‘And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I’m a crow, especially when I stand a’top of this pine tree here. Caw! caw! caw! caw! caw! caw! Ain’t I a crow? And where’s the scare-crow? There he stands; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more poked into the sleeves of an old jacket.’
‘还有我、你和他；我们，你们，还有他们，都是蝙蝠；我是一只乌鸦，尤其是当我站在这棵松树顶上时。啼！啼！啼！啼！啼！啼！我不是乌鸦吗？稻草人在哪里？他站在那里；两根骨头卡在一条旧裤子里，另外两根骨头刺进了一件旧夹克的袖子里。

‘Wonder if he means me?—complimentary!—poor lad!—I could go hang myself. Any way, for the present, I’ll quit Pip’s vicinity. I can stand the rest, for they have plain wits; but he’s too crazy-witty for my sanity. So, so, I leave him muttering.’
“不知道他是不是指我？——恭维！——可怜的小伙子！——我可以上吊自杀。”无论如何，目前我要离开皮普的附近。我可以忍受其余的，因为他们有朴素的智慧；但他对我的理智来说太机智了。所以，所以，我让他嘟囔着。

‘Here’s the ship’s navel, this doubloon here, and they are all on fire to unscrew it. But, unscrew your navel, and what’s the consequence? Then again, if it stays here, that is ugly, too, for when aught’s nailed to the mast it’s a sign that things grow desperate. Ha, ha! old Ahab! the White Whale; he’ll nail ye! This is a pine tree. My father, in old Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and found a silver ring grown over in it; some old darkey’s wedding ring. How did it get there? And so they’ll say in the resurrection, when they come to fish up this old mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters for the shaggy bark. Oh, the gold! the precious, precious, gold! the green miser’ll hoard ye soon! Hish! hish! God goes ‘mong the worlds blackberrying. Cook! ho, cook! and cook us! Jenny! hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Jenny, Jenny! and get your hoe-cake done!’
“这是船的肚脐，这里有这个达布隆，他们都在着火去拧开它。但是，拧开你的肚脐，后果是什么？话又说回来，如果它留在这里，那也是丑陋的，因为当有什么东西被钉在桅杆上时，就表明事情变得绝望了。哈哈！老亚哈！白鲸；他会钉住你们的！这是一棵松树。我的父亲在老托兰县有一次砍倒了一棵松树，发现上面长着一枚银戒指；一些老达基的结婚戒指。它是怎么到达那里的？所以他们会在复活时这样说，当他们来打捞这根旧桅杆时，发现里面藏着一条达布隆，上面铺着牡蛎，用来覆盖毛茸茸的树皮。哦，黄金！珍贵，珍贵，黄金！绿色守财奴很快就会囤积你们！嘶！嘘！上帝走遍世界各地的黑莓。厨师！嗬，做饭！并煮我们！珍妮！嘿，嘿，嘿，嘿，嘿，珍妮，珍妮！完成你的锄头蛋糕！

Chapter 100
第100章

Leg and Arm.
腿和手臂。

The Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London.
楠塔基特岛的裴阔德号遇见了伦敦的塞缪尔·恩德比号。

‘Ship, ahoy! Hast seen the White Whale?’
‘船，嘿！看到白鲸了吗？

So cried Ahab, once more hailing a ship showing English colours, bearing down under the stern. Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his hoisted quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger captain, who was carelessly reclining in his own boat’s bow. He was a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of sixty or thereabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that hung round him in festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of this jacket streamed behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar’s surcoat.
亚哈如此喊道，再次向一艘显示英国国旗的船欢呼，船正从船尾驶来。老人站在他升起的四分之一船上，对着嘴吹着喇叭，他的象牙腿清楚地暴露给陌生的船长，而船长则漫不经心地斜倚在自己的船头。他是一个皮肤黝黑、身材魁梧、脾气很好、相貌英俊的男人，六十岁左右，穿着一件宽敞的圆环，周围挂着蓝色飞行员布的花饰。这件夹克的一只空臂在他身后飘逸，就像骠骑兵外套上的绣花臂一样。

‘Hast seen the White Whale!’
“看到白鲸了！”

‘See you this?’ and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it, he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden head like a mallet.
“看到这个了吗？”他把它从隐藏的褶皱中抽出来，举起一条抹香鲸骨头的白色手臂，末端是一个像木槌一样的木头。

‘Man my boat!’ cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near him—‘Stand by to lower!’
“操纵我的船！”亚哈急躁地喊道，同时摇晃着他身边的桨——“准备下沉！”

In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and his crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the stranger. But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In the excitement of the moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own, and then it was always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other vessel at a moment’s warning. Now, it is no very easy matter for anybody—except those who are almost hourly used to it, like whalemen—to clamber up a ship’s side from a boat on the open sea; for the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks, and then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson. So, deprived of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether unsupplied with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced to a clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height he could hardly hope to attain.
不到一分钟，他和他的船员没有离开他的小船，就被扔进了水里，很快就到了陌生人身边。但这里出现了一个奇怪的困难。在那一刻的兴奋中，亚哈忘记了自从失去一条腿以来，除了他自己的船外，他从未登上过海上的任何船只，而且总是通过佩阔德号特有的巧妙且非常方便的机械装置来登上。 ，以及在收到警告后不得在任何其他船只上安装和运输的东西。现在，对任何人来说——除了那些几乎每小时都习惯这样做的人，比如捕鲸人——从公海上的船上爬上船舷都不是一件容易的事；因为巨浪现在将船高高地推向舷墙，然后立即将其落到凯尔森的一半位置。因此，失去了一条腿，这艘奇怪的船当然也完全没有这个仁慈的发明，亚哈现在发现自己再次卑鄙地沦为一个笨拙的土地居民；绝望地看着他几乎不可能达到的不确定的多变高度。

It has before been hinted, perhaps, that every little untoward circumstance that befell him, and which indirectly sprang from his luckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab. And in the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of the two officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him a pair of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem to bethink them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to use their sea bannisters. But this awkwardness only lasted a minute, because the strange captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood, cried out, ‘I see, I see!—avast heaving there! Jump, boys, and swing over the cutting-tackle.’
或许之前已经暗示过，发生在他身上的每一个小不幸事件，以及间接源于他不幸的不幸事件，几乎总是会激怒或激怒亚哈。在目前的情况下，这一切都因这艘陌生船上的两名军官的景象而更加突出，他们靠在船舷上，靠着钉有钉子的垂直梯子，并向他摆动着一对装饰精美的绳索。因为起初他们似乎并没有想到，一个单腿的人一定是一个严重的跛子，无法使用他们的海上栏杆。但这种尴尬只持续了一分钟，因为那位奇怪的船长一眼就看到了事情的进展，喊道：“我明白了，我明白了！——那里剧烈地起伏！”跳起来，孩子们，在截钓具上荡来荡去。

As good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or two previous, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive curved blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end. This was quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all, slid his solitary thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting in the fluke of an anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then giving the word, held himself fast, and at the same time also helped to hoist his own weight, by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of the tackle. Soon he was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and gently landed upon the capstan head. With his ivory arm frankly thrust forth in welcome, the other captain advanced, and Ahab, putting out his ivory leg, and crossing the ivory arm (like two sword-fish blades) cried out in his walrus way, ‘Aye, aye, hearty! let us shake bones together!—an arm and a leg!—an arm that never can shrink, d’ye see; and a leg that never can run. Where did’st thou see the White Whale?—how long ago?’
幸运的是，他们在一两天前曾在旁边遇到过一条鲸鱼，而巨大的滑车仍然在高处，巨大的弯曲鲸脂钩现在干净干燥，仍然固定在末端。这句话很快就传给了亚哈，他立刻明白了这一切，将他孤独的大腿滑入钩子的曲线中（就像坐在锚的尾翼或苹果树的胯部），然后发出命令，保持住自己的姿势，同时也通过双手拉动滑车的一个运行部件来帮助提升自己的重量。很快他就被小心翼翼地吊进了高高的舷墙内，并轻轻地落在了绞盘头上。另一位船长向前迈进，坦率地伸出象牙手臂表示欢迎，亚哈伸出象牙腿，交叉着象牙手臂（像两把剑鱼刀片），用海象的方式大声喊道：“是的，是的，热心的” ！让我们一起摇动骨头吧！——一条胳膊和一条腿！——一条永远不会收缩的手臂，你瞧；还有一条永远跑不了的腿。你在哪里看到白鲸？——多久以前？

‘The White Whale,’ said the Englishman, pointing his ivory arm towards the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a telescope; ‘there I saw him, on the Line, last season.’
“白鲸。”英国人说道，他用象牙手臂指向东方，悲伤地看了一眼，就好像它是一架望远镜一样。 “上个赛季，我在线上看到了他。”

‘And he took that arm off, did he?’ asked Ahab, now sliding down from the capstan, and resting on the Englishman’s shoulder, as he did so.
“他把那只手臂拿下来了，是吗？”亚哈问，此时他从绞盘上滑下来，靠在英国人的肩膀上。

‘Aye, he was the cause of it, at least; and that leg, too?’
“是的，至少他是造成这一切的原因；”还有那条腿？

‘Spin me the yarn,’ said Ahab; ‘how was it?’
亚哈说：“给我纺纱吧。” '它怎么样？'

‘It was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line,’ began the Englishman. ‘I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time. Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat fastened to one of them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went milling and milling round so, that my boat’s crew could only trim dish, by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale. Presently up breaches from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white head and hump, all crows’ feet and wrinkles.’
“这是我一生中第一次乘坐邮轮，”英国人开始说道。 “当时我对白鲸一无所知。好吧，有一天，我们下降到一群有四五头鲸鱼的地方，我的船固定在其中一头鲸鱼身上。他也是一匹普通的马戏团马，它不停地转来转去，所以我的船上的船员只能把他们的船尾都坐在外舷缘上来修剪盘子。不久，一条巨大的鲸鱼从海底的裂缝中浮出水面，它的头和驼峰呈乳白色，布满了鱼尾纹和皱纹。

‘It was he, it was he!’ cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his suspended breath.
“是他，是他！”亚哈突然呼出一口气，喊道。

‘And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin.’
“鱼叉插在他的右舷鳍附近。”

‘Aye, aye—they were mine—MY irons,’ cried Ahab, exultingly—‘but on!’
“是的，是的——它们是我的——我的熨斗，”亚哈兴高采烈地喊道——“但是继续！”

‘Give me a chance, then,’ said the Englishman, good-humoredly. ‘Well, this old great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all afoam into the pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line!
“那么，给我一个机会，”英国人幽默地说。 ‘好吧，这位头白背驼的老曾祖父，一身泡沫跑进豆荚里，对我的快线猛烈地撕咬！

‘Aye, I see!—wanted to part it; free the fast-fish—an old trick—I know him.’
“是啊，我明白了！——想把它分开；放开快鱼——这是老把戏——我认识他。”

‘How it was exactly,’ continued the one-armed commander, ‘I do not know; but in biting the line, it got foul of his teeth, caught there somehow; but we didn’t know it then; so that when we afterwards pulled on the line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of the other whale’s; that went off to windward, all fluking. Seeing how matters stood, and what a noble great whale it was—the noblest and biggest I ever saw, sir, in my life—I resolved to capture him, spite of the boiling rage he seemed to be in. And thinking the hap-hazard line would get loose, or the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have a devil of a boat’s crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I say, I jumped into my first mate’s boat—Mr. Mounttop’s here (by the way, Captain—Mounttop; Mounttop—the captain);—as I was saying, I jumped into Mounttop’s boat, which, d’ye see, was gunwale and gunwale with mine, then; and snatching the first harpoon, let this old great-grandfather have it. But, Lord, look you, sir—hearts and souls alive, man—the next instant, in a jiff, I was blind as a bat—both eyes out—all befogged and bedeadened with black foam—the whale’s tail looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air, like a marble steeple. No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at midday, with a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say, after the second iron, to toss it overboard—down comes the tail like a Lima tower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and, flukes first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was all chips. We all struck out. To escape his terrible flailings, I seized hold of my harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that like a sucking fish. But a combing sea dashed me off, and at the same instant, the fish, taking one good dart forwards, went down like a flash; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near me caught me here’ (clapping his hand just below his shoulder); ‘yes, caught me just here, I say, and bore me down to Hell’s flames, I was thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the good God, the barb ript its way along the flesh—clear along the whole length of my arm—came out nigh my wrist, and up I floated;—and that gentleman there will tell you the rest (by the way, captain—Dr. Bunger, ship’s surgeon: Bunger, my lad,—the captain). Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of the yarn.’
“具体情况如何，”独臂指挥官继续说道，“我不知道；但我知道。”但在咬线的过程中，线被他的牙齿弄脏了，不知何故被卡住了。但我们当时并不知道；因此，当我们随后拉动绳子时，我们弹跳到他的驼峰上！而不是另一头鲸鱼的；顺风而行，一切侥幸。看到事情的进展，以及那是一条多么高贵的巨鲸——先生，我一生中见过的最高贵、最大的鲸鱼——我决定抓住他，尽管他似乎怒火中烧。危险线会松动，或者它所缠住的牙齿可能会被拉动（因为我有一个魔鬼般的船员来拉鲸鱼线）；看到这一切，我说，我跳进了大副先生的船。芒特托普在这里（顺便说一句，船长——芒特托普；芒特托普——船长）；——正如我所说，我跳进了芒特托普的船，你看，那条船的船舷和我的船舷是一样的；抢到第一把鱼叉，就让这个老曾祖父拥有了。但是，主啊，看看你，先生——我的心和灵魂都还活着，伙计——下一瞬间，我像蝙蝠一样盲目——双眼都睁不开——浑身被黑色的泡沫弄得模糊不清——鲸鱼的尾巴笔直地伸出来。它垂直于空中，就像一座大理石尖塔。那么，严厉是没有用的；但当我在正午摸索时，阳光刺眼，一切都是皇冠上的宝石；当我摸索时，我说，在第二根铁杆之后，把它扔到海里——船尾像利马塔一样落下来，把我的船切成两半，让每一半都变成碎片；首先是侥幸，白色的驼峰从残骸中向后退去，好像全都是碎片。我们都出局了。为了躲避他可怕的挥舞，我抓住了插在他身上的鱼叉竿，有那么一会儿，我像一条吸吮鱼一样紧紧抓住它。 但汹涌的大海把我冲走了，与此同时，那条鱼猛地向前一冲，闪电般地沉下去了。拖在我附近的那根该死的第二根铁杆的倒钩把我抓住了。”（拍拍他肩膀下方的手）； “是的，我说，就在这儿抓住了我，然后把我带进了地狱的火焰，我心想；当，当，突然间，感谢仁慈的上帝，倒刺沿着肉身撕开——沿着我的整个手臂清晰可见——出现在我的手腕附近，我漂浮起来；——那里的那位绅士会告诉你你们其余的人（顺便说一下，船长——邦格博士，船上的外科医生：邦格，我的小伙子——船长）。现在，邦格小子，开始编织你的部分吧。’

The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been all the time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to denote his gentlemanly rank on board. His face was an exceedingly round but sober one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and patched trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a marlingspike he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other, occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two crippled captains. But, at his superior’s introduction of him to Ahab, he politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain’s bidding.
这位职业绅士如此熟悉地指出，一直站在他们附近，没有任何具体可见的东西来表明他在船上的绅士等级。他的脸非常圆，但很严肃。他穿着一件褪色的蓝色羊毛连衣裙或衬衫，以及一条打了补丁的长裤。到目前为止，他的注意力一直集中在一只手拿着的马林钉和另一只手拿着的药盒之间，偶尔会批判性地瞥一眼两位残废船长的象牙四肢。但是，当他的上司把他介绍给亚哈时，他礼貌地鞠了一躬，然后立即继续执行队长的命令。

‘It was a shocking bad wound,’ began the whale-surgeon; ‘and, taking my advice, Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy—’
“这是一个令人震惊的重伤，”鲸鱼外科医生开始说道。 “根据我的建议，布默船长在这里站着我们的老萨米——”

‘Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship,’ interrupted the one-armed captain, addressing Ahab; ‘go on, boy.’
“塞缪尔·恩德比是我的船的名字。”独臂船长对亚哈说道。 “继续吧，孩子。”

‘Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot weather there on the Line. But it was no use—I did all I could; sat up with him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet—’
“我们的老萨米站在北边，躲避铁路线上的酷热天气。但这没有用——我已经尽力了；整夜陪着他坐着；在饮食方面对他非常严厉——”

‘Oh, very severe!’ chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering his voice, ‘Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till he couldn’t see to put on the bandages; and sending me to bed, half seas over, about three o’clock in the morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat up with me indeed, and was very severe in my diet. Oh! a great watcher, and very dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh out! why don’t ye? You know you’re a precious jolly rascal.) But, heave ahead, boy, I’d rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other man.’
“哦，非常严重！”病人自己插话道。然后突然改变了声音，“每天晚上和我一起喝热朗姆酒，直到他看不到绷带为止；”凌晨三点左右，我漂洋过海，送我上床睡觉。哦，星星们！他确实和我坐在一起，并且对我的饮食非常严格。哦！邦格博士是一位出色的观察家，而且在饮食方面也非常严格。 （邦格，你这狗，笑出来吧！你为什么不笑呢？你知道你是一个可爱的快乐的流氓。）但是，继续前进，孩子，我宁愿被你杀死，也不愿被任何其他人活下去。

‘My captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir’—said the imperturbable godly-looking Bunger, slightly bowing to Ahab—‘is apt to be facetious at times; he spins us many clever things of that sort. But I may as well say—en passant, as the French remark—that I myself—that is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend clergy—am a strict total abstinence man; I never drink—’
“我的船长，尊敬的先生，您一定早就意识到了这一点，”——神情平静的邦格向亚哈微微鞠了一躬，说道，“他有时很容易开玩笑；他为我们创造了许多此类聪明的东西。但我也不妨说——正如法国人所说的那样——我自己——也就是说，杰克·邦格，已故的神职人员——是一个严格的完全禁欲的人；我从不喝酒——”

‘Water!’ cried the captain; ‘he never drinks it; it’s a sort of fits to him; fresh water throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on—go on with the arm story.’
“水！”船长喊道。 “他从不喝它；这有点适合他；淡水使他陷入恐水症；但继续——继续讲手臂的故事。

‘Yes, I may as well,’ said the surgeon, coolly. ‘I was about observing, sir, before Captain Boomer’s facetious interruption, that spite of my best and severest endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; the truth was, sir, it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; more than two feet and several inches long. I measured it with the lead line. In short, it grew black; I knew what was threatened, and off it came. But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is against all rule’—pointing at it with the marlingspike—‘that is the captain’s work, not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had that club-hammer there put to the end, to knock some one’s brains out with, I suppose, as he tried mine once. He flies into diabolical passions sometimes. Do ye see this dent, sir’—removing his hat, and brushing aside his hair, and exposing a bowl-like cavity in his skull, but which bore not the slightest scarry trace, or any token of ever having been a wound—‘Well, the captain there will tell you how that came here; he knows.’
“是的，我也可以，”外科医生冷静地说。 “先生，在布默船长滑稽地打断之前，我正要观察到，尽管我尽了最大努力，伤口却越来越严重；事实是，先生，这是外科医生见过的最丑陋、张开的伤口。超过两英尺几英寸长。我是用铅线测量的。简而言之，它变黑了；我知道受到威胁的是什么，然后它就发生了。但我没有参与将那只象牙手臂运送到那里；那东西违反了所有规则”——用马林钉指着它——“那是船长的工作，不是我的；他命令木匠制作它；他把那把棍棒锤放在了末端，我想，就像他曾经尝试过我的一样，是为了敲掉某人的大脑。他有时会陷入恶魔般的激情之中。你看到这个凹痕了吗，先生——摘下帽子，拨开头发，露出头骨上一个碗状的空洞，但里面没有丝毫伤痕，也没有任何曾经是伤口的迹象——”好吧，那里的船长会告诉你它是如何来到这里的；他知道。'

‘No, I don’t,’ said the captain, ‘but his mother did; he was born with it. Oh, you solemn rogue, you—you Bunger! was there ever such another Bunger in the watery world? Bunger, when you die, you ought to die in pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future ages, you rascal.’
“不，我不知道，”船长说，“但他的母亲知道；”他与生俱来。哦，你这个庄严的流氓，你——你邦格！水世界里还有这样的邦格吗？邦格，当你死的时候，你应该死在泡菜里，你这狗；你应该被保留到未来，你这个流氓。

‘What became of the White Whale?’ now cried Ahab, who thus far had been impatiently listening to this by-play between the two Englishmen.
“白鲸后来怎么样了？”亚哈大声喊道，到目前为止，他一直在不耐烦地听着两个英国人之间的这一小插曲。

‘Oh!’ cried the one-armed captain, ‘oh, yes! Well; after he sounded, we didn’t see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted, I didn’t then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick, till some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about Moby Dick—as some call him—and then I knew it was he.’
“哦！”独臂船长喊道，“哦，是的！出色地;他发出声音后，我们有一段时间没有再见到他了。事实上，正如我之前暗示的那样，我当时并不知道是什么鲸鱼给我带来了这样的把戏，直到一段时间后，当回到线路时，我们听说了莫比迪克——有些人这样称呼他——并且然后我就知道是他了。

‘Did’st thou cross his wake again?’
“你又经过他的尾迹了吗？”

‘Twice.’
'两次。'

‘But could not fasten?’
“但是无法系紧？”

‘Didn’t want to try to: ain’t one limb enough? What should I do without this other arm? And I’m thinking Moby Dick doesn’t bite so much as he swallows.’
“不想尝试：单肢还不够吗？没有另一只手臂我该怎么办？我认为莫比迪克咬的次数并不多于吞咽的次数。

‘Well, then,’ interrupted Bunger, ‘give him your left arm for bait to get the right. Do you know, gentlemen’—very gravely and mathematically bowing to each Captain in succession—‘Do you know, gentlemen, that the digestive organs of the whale are so inscrutably constructed by Divine Providence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest even a man’s arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the White Whale’s malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means to swallow a single limb; he only thinks to terrify by feints. But sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow, formerly a patient of mine in Ceylon, that making believe swallow jack-knives, once upon a time let one drop into him in good earnest, and there it stayed for a twelvemonth or more; when I gave him an emetic, and he heaved it up in small tacks, d’ye see. No possible way for him to digest that jack-knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily system. Yes, Captain Boomer, if you are quick enough about it, and have a mind to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to the other, why in that case the arm is yours; only let the whale have another chance at you shortly, that’s all.’
“那么，”邦格打断道，“把你的左臂给他当诱饵，让他得到右手。”你们知道吗，先生们”——非常严肃地、数学般地连续向每位船长鞠躬——“先生们，你们知道吗，鲸鱼的消化器官是由神圣的天意构造得如此难以理解，以至于他不可能完全消化甚至是男人的手臂？他也知道这一点。所以你认为白鲸的恶意只是他的笨拙。因为他从来没有打算吞下一根肢体；他只想用佯攻来吓唬人。但有时他就像那个玩杂耍的老家伙，我以前在锡兰的一个病人，假装吞下了折刀，有一次，有人认真地把折刀扔到他身上，它在那里停留了十二个月或更长时间;当我给他催吐剂时，他把它用小图钉举起来，你瞧。他不可能消化那把折刀，并将其完全融入他的身体系统中。是的，布默船长，如果你反应够快，并且愿意典当一只手臂，以获得为另一只手臂提供体面埋葬的特权，那么为什么在这种情况下，这只手臂就是你的呢？只要让鲸鱼很快再给你一次机会，就这样了。”

‘No, thank ye, Bunger,’ said the English Captain, ‘he’s welcome to the arm he has, since I can’t help it, and didn’t know him then; but not to another one. No more White Whales for me; I’ve lowered for him once, and that has satisfied me. There would be great glory in killing him, I know that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark ye, he’s best let alone; don’t you think so, Captain?’—glancing at the ivory leg.
“不，谢谢你，邦格，”英国船长说，“欢迎他加入他的队伍，因为我无法控制，而且当时还不认识他；但不是对另一个人。我不再有白鲸；我曾经为他降过一次，这让我很满意。我知道，杀了他会带来巨大的荣耀；他体内有大量珍贵的精子，但是，听着，最好别管他；你不这么认为吗，船长？”——瞥了一眼象牙腿。

‘He is. But he will still be hunted, for all that. What is best let alone, that accursed thing is not always what least allures. He’s all a magnet! How long since thou saw’st him last? Which way heading?’
'他是。但尽管如此，他仍然会受到追捕。更不用说最好的东西了，那个可恶的东西并不总是最没有吸引力的。他就是一块磁铁！你上次见到他有多久了？往哪个方向走？

‘Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend’s,’ cried Bunger, stoopingly walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely snuffing; ‘this man’s blood—bring the thermometer!—it’s at the boiling point!—his pulse makes these planks beat!—sir!’—taking a lancet from his pocket, and drawing near to Ahab’s arm.
“保佑我的灵魂，诅咒这个邪恶恶魔的灵魂。”邦格喊道，弯下腰绕着亚哈走来走去，像只狗一样奇怪地嗅着。 “这个人的血——拿来温度计！——已经到沸点了！——他的脉搏让这些木板跳动！——先生！”——从口袋里掏出一把柳叶刀，靠近亚哈的手臂。

‘Avast!’ roared Ahab, dashing him against the bulwarks—‘Man the boat! Which way heading?’
“阿瓦斯特！”亚哈咆哮道，把他撞向舷墙——“掌管船！”往哪个方向走？

‘Good God!’ cried the English Captain, to whom the question was put. ‘What’s the matter? He was heading east, I think.—Is your Captain crazy?’ whispering Fedallah.
“天啊！”这个问题被问到的英国船长喊道。 '怎么了？我想他正在向东行驶。——你们的船长疯了吗？”费达拉低声说道。

But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks to take the boat’s steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle towards him, commanded the ship’s sailors to stand by to lower.
但费达拉把一根手指放在嘴唇上，滑过舷墙去接住船的舵桨，亚哈则向他挥动渔具，命令船上的水手们待命下降。

In a moment he was standing in the boat’s stern, and the Manilla men were springing to their oars. In vain the English Captain hailed him. With back to the stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own, Ahab stood upright till alongside of the Pequod.
不一会儿，他就站在了船尾，马尼拉的船员们也开始划桨。英国船长向他欢呼，但徒劳无功。亚哈背对着那艘陌生的船，脸像一块燧石一样贴着自己的脸，笔直地站在裴廓德号旁边。

Chapter 101
第101章

The Decanter.
醒酒器。

Ere the English ship fades from sight, be it set down here, that she hailed from London, and was named after the late Samuel Enderby, merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling house of Enderby & Sons; a house which in my poor whaleman’s opinion, comes not far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in point of real historical interest. How long, prior to the year of our Lord 1775, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous fish-documents do not make plain; but in that year (1775) it fitted out the first English ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale; though for some score of years previous (ever since 1726) our valiant Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket and the Vineyard had in large fleets pursued that Leviathan, but only in the North and South Atlantic: not elsewhere. Be it distinctly recorded here, that the Nantucketers were the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great Sperm Whale; and that for half a century they were the only people of the whole globe who so harpooned him.
在这艘英国船从人们的视线中消失之前，它就停泊在这里，它来自伦敦，以已故的伦敦商人塞缪尔·恩德比（Samuel Enderby）的名字命名，他是著名的恩德比父子捕鲸公司的前身；在我可怜的捕鲸人看来，就真正的历史意义而言，这座房子并不落后于都铎王朝和波旁王朝的联合王室。在我们的主 1775 年之前，这个伟大的捕鲸场已经存在了多久，我的大量鱼类文件并没有说明白；但在那一年（1775 年），它装备了第一艘定期捕猎抹香鲸的英国船只；尽管几十年前（自 1726 年起），我们英勇的楠塔基特和葡萄园的棺材和梅西舰队曾以大型舰队追击过那只利维坦，但仅限于北大西洋和南大西洋，其他地方都没有。这里清楚地记录着，楠塔基特人是人类中第一个用文明钢鱼叉捕杀抹香鲸的人；半个世纪以来，他们是全世界唯一用鱼叉攻击他的人。

In 1778, a fine ship, the Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose, and at the sole charge of the vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape Horn, and was the first among the nations to lower a whale-boat of any sort in the great South Sea. The voyage was a skilful and lucky one; and returning to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm, the Amelia’s example was soon followed by other ships, English and American, and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific were thrown open. But not content with this good deed, the indefatigable house again bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons—how many, their mother only knows—and under their immediate auspices, and partly, I think, at their expense, the British government was induced to send the sloop-of-war Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea. Commanded by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it, and did some service; how much does not appear. But this is not all. In 1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan. That ship—well called the ‘Syren’—made a noble experimental cruise; and it was thus that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known. The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a Nantucketer.
1778 年，一艘精良的船，阿米莉亚号，专为特定目的而装备，由精力充沛的恩德比家族独自负责，大胆地绕过了合恩角，成为第一艘在该海域放下任何类型捕鲸船的国家。伟大的南海。这次航行是一次熟练而幸运的航行。满载着宝贵的精子返回泊位后，阿米莉亚号的榜样很快被英国和美国的其他船只效仿，太平洋上广阔的抹香鲸领地被打开了。但不满足于这一善行，不知疲倦的房子再次骚动起来：塞缪尔和他所有的儿子——有多少，只有他们的母亲知道——在他们的直接支持下，而且我认为部分以他们为代价，英国政府被诱导了派战用单桅帆船“响尾蛇”号前往南海进行捕鲸发现之旅。在一位海军舰长的指挥下，响尾蛇号完成了一次艰难的航行，并提供了一些服务。没有出现多少。但这并不是全部。 1819 年，同一家公司建造了一艘属于自己的发现鲸船，前往日本偏远海域进行品酒巡游。那艘船——俗称“塞壬”号——进行了一次高贵的实验性巡航。就这样，日本伟大的捕鲸场首次为人所知。这次著名航行中的塞壬号是由楠塔基特人科芬船长指挥的。

All honour to the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to the present day; though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world.
因此，所有荣誉都归于恩德比夫妇，我认为他们的房子至今还存在。尽管毫无疑问，原来的塞缪尔一定很早以前就已经把电缆滑到了另一个世界的伟大南海。

The ship named after him was worthy of the honour, being a very fast sailer and a noble craft every way. I boarded her once at midnight somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in the forecastle. It was a fine gam we had, and they were all trumps—every soul on board. A short life to them, and a jolly death. And that fine gam I had—long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with his ivory heel—it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that ship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever lose sight of it. Flip? Did I say we had flip? Yes, and we flipped it at the rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it’s squally off there by Patagonia), and all hands—visitors and all—were called to reef topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each other aloft in bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our jackets into the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the howling gale, a warning example to all drunken tars. However, the masts did not go overboard; and by and by we scrambled down, so sober, that we had to pass the flip again, though the savage salt spray bursting down the forecastle scuttle, rather too much diluted and pickled it to my taste.
这艘以他的名字命名的船当之无愧地享有这一荣誉，它是一艘速度非常快的帆船，而且在各个方面都是一艘高贵的船。有一次，我在午夜时分在巴塔哥尼亚海岸附近的某个地方登上了她，并在艏楼里喝了一杯美酒。我们玩了一场精彩的游戏，他们都是王牌——船上的每个人。对他们来说，生命短暂，死亡快乐。而我的那场美妙的游戏——在老亚哈用他的象牙鞋跟触碰她的木板很久很久之后——它让我想起了那艘船高贵、坚实、撒克逊人的热情好客；如果我忘记了它，愿我的牧师忘记我，魔鬼也记住我。翻动？我有说过我们有翻转吗？是的，我们以每小时十加仑的速度翻转它；当狂风来临时（因为巴塔哥尼亚附近有狂风），所有的人——游客和所有的人——都被召唤到礁石中帆，我们头重脚轻，不得不在高处互相摇摆。我们无知地把夹克裙边卷进帆里，这样我们就挂在那里，在呼啸的大风中快速收拢，这对所有喝醉的焦油来说都是一个警告。然而，桅杆并没有过度。渐渐地，我们爬下来，如此清醒，我们不得不再次通过翻转，尽管猛烈的盐雾从艏楼天窗中喷涌而出，根据我的口味，它被稀释和腌制了太多。

The beef was fine—tough, but with body in it. They said it was bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef; but I do not know, for certain, how that was. They had dumplings too; small, but substantial, symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings. I fancied that you could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were swallowed. If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their pitching out of you like billiard-balls. The bread—but that couldn’t be helped; besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the only fresh fare they had. But the forecastle was not very light, and it was very easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it. But all in all, taking her from truck to helm, considering the dimensions of the cook’s boilers, including his own live parchment boilers; fore and aft, I say, the Samuel Enderby was a jolly ship; of good fare and plenty; fine flip and strong; crack fellows all, and capital from boot heels to hat-band.
牛肉很好——很硬，但里面有肉质。他们说这是公牛肉；其他人则认为这是单峰骆驼牛肉；但我确实不知道那是怎么回事。他们也有饺子；小而实，对称的球状，坚不可摧的饺子。我想象你能感觉到它们，并在它们被吞下后在你体内滚动。如果你弯腰太靠前，他们就会像台球一样把球从你身上扔出去。面包——但那也是没办法的事；此外，它还是一种抗坏血病药物；简而言之，面包是他们仅有的新鲜食物。但艏楼不是很轻，吃的时候很容易跨入阴暗的角落。但总而言之，从卡车到掌舵，考虑到厨师锅炉的尺寸，包括他自己的活羊皮纸锅炉；我说，塞缪尔·恩德比号的船头和船尾都是一艘快乐的船。票价优惠，数量充足；精细翻转，坚固；所有的好家伙，以及从靴跟到帽带的资本。

But why was it, think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other English whalers I know of—not all though—were such famous, hospitable ships; that passed round the beef, and the bread, and the can, and the joke; and were not soon weary of eating, and drinking, and laughing? I will tell you. The abounding good cheer of these English whalers is matter for historical research. Nor have I been at all sparing of historical whale research, when it has seemed needed.
但是，你们想一想，为什么塞缪尔·恩德比号和我所知道的其他一些英国捕鲸船（尽管不是全部）都是如此著名、热情好客的船只？他们传递着牛肉、面包、罐头和笑话；是不是很快就厌倦了吃、喝、笑？我会告诉你。这些英国捕鲸者的欢呼声对于历史研究来说很重要。当似乎有必要时，我也毫不吝惜对鲸鱼的历史研究。

The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders, Zealanders, and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant in the fishery; and what is yet more, their fat old fashions, touching plenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the English merchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler. Hence, in the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and natural, but incidental and particular; and, therefore, must have some special origin, which is here pointed out, and will be still further elucidated.
在鲸鱼捕捞方面，英国人先于荷兰人、西兰人和丹麦人。他们从他那里衍生出许多渔业术语，至今仍然存在；更重要的是，他们肥胖的老式时尚，有很多吃的和喝的。因为，总的来说，英国商船对船员精打细算。但英国捕鲸船却并非如此。因此，在英语中，捕鲸欢呼这件事不是正常的、自然的，而是偶然的、特殊的；因此，必定有某种特殊的起源，这一点在此指出，并将进一步阐明。

During my researches in the Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an ancient Dutch volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I knew must be about whalers. The title was, ‘Dan Coopman,’ wherefore I concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam cooper in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I was reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one ‘Fitz Swackhammer.’ But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man, professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus and St. Pott’s, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him a box of sperm candles for his trouble—this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as he spied the book, assured me that ‘Dan Coopman’ did not mean ‘The Cooper,’ but ‘The Merchant.’ In short, this ancient and learned Low Dutch book treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other subjects, contained a very interesting account of its whale fishery. And in this chapter it was, headed, ‘Smeer,’ or ‘Fat,’ that I found a long detailed list of the outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen; from which list, as translated by Dr. Snodhead, I transcribe the following:
在我研究利维坦历史的过程中，我偶然发现了一本古老的荷兰书，从它的霉味捕鲸气味中，我知道这一定是关于捕鲸者的。书名是“丹·库普曼”，因此我得出结论，这一定是阿姆斯特丹渔业中某个制桶工人的无价回忆录，因为每艘捕鲸船都必须携带自己的制桶工人。当我看到它是《菲茨·斯瓦克锤》的作品时，我更加坚定了这个观点。但是我的朋友斯诺德黑德博士是一位博学多才的人，是圣诞老人和圣波特学院的低地荷兰语和高地德语教授，我把这本书交给了他翻译，并给了他一盒精液蜡烛以缓解他的麻烦——就是这个斯诺黑德博士，他一看到这本书，就向我保证，“丹·库普曼”的意思不是“库珀”，而是“库珀”。简而言之，这本古老而博学的低地荷兰语书籍讨论了荷兰的商业；除其他主题外，还包含有关鲸鱼捕捞的非常有趣的描述。在这一章中，我找到了一份以“Smeer”或“Fat”为标题的长长的详细清单，列出了 180 名荷兰捕鲸人的食品储藏室和地窖的服装；我从斯诺德海德博士翻译的这份清单中抄录如下：

400,000 lbs. of beef. 60,000 lbs. Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs. of stock fish. 550,000 lbs. of biscuit. 72,000 lbs. of soft bread. 2,800 firkins of butter. 20,000 lbs. Texel & Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs. cheese (probably an inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of beer.
400,000 磅。牛肉。 60,000 磅。弗里斯兰猪肉。 150,000 磅。库存鱼。 550,000 磅。饼干。 72,000 磅。软面包。 2,800 瓶黄油。 20,000 磅。特塞尔和莱顿奶酪。 144,000 磅。奶酪（可能是劣质物品）。 550 日内瓦安克斯。 10,800桶啤酒。

Most statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in the present case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole pipes, barrels, quarts, and gills of good gin and good cheer.
大多数统计表格读起来都枯燥无味。然而，在目前的情况下，情况并非如此，读者被整桶、桶、夸脱和鳃的优质杜松子酒和欢乐所淹没。

At the time, I devoted three days to the studious digesting of all this beer, beef, and bread, during which many profound thoughts were incidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental and Platonic application; and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables of my own, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen whale fishery. In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and Leyden cheese consumed, seems amazing. I impute it, though, to their naturally unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the nature of their vocation, and especially by their pursuing their game in those frigid Polar Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country where the convivial natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil.
当时我用了三天的时间苦苦消化这些啤酒、牛肉、面包，期间不经意地给我带来了许多深奥的思想，可以进行超验的、柏拉图式的运用；此外，我还编制了自己的补充表格，涉及古代格陵兰岛和斯匹次卑尔根鲸鱼渔业中每个低地荷兰鱼叉手消耗的鱼类等的可能数量。首先，黄油、特塞尔奶酪和莱顿奶酪的消耗量似乎惊人。不过，我将其归咎于他们自然的油腻本性，由于他们的职业性质，尤其是他们在寒冷的极地海洋中，在爱斯基摩国家的海岸上追求他们的游戏，他们的本性变得更加油腻，那里是欢乐的当地人承诺的地方彼此在火车油的保险杠中。

The quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels. Now, as those polar fisheries could only be prosecuted in the short summer of that climate, so that the whole cruise of one of these Dutch whalemen, including the short voyage to and from the Spitzbergen sea, did not much exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men to each of their fleet of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all; therefore, I say, we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a twelve weeks’ allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers of gin. Now, whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might fancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in a boat’s head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem somewhat improbable. Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too. But this was very far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with the constitution; upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would be apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his boat; and grievous loss might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.
啤酒的数量也很大，有10800桶。现在，由于这些极地渔业只能在那种气候的短暂夏季进行，因此这些荷兰捕鲸者的整个航行，包括往返斯匹茨卑尔根海的短途航行，不会超过三个月，比如说，按他们 180 艘船的每支船队 30 名船员计算，我们总共有 5,400 名低地荷兰海员；因此，我说，我们每人正好有两桶啤酒，作为十二周的津贴，不包括他那 550 瓶杜松子酒中的公平比例。现在，这些杜松子酒和啤酒的鱼叉手，尽管人们可能想象他们如此糊涂，他们是否是站在船头准确瞄准飞翔鲸鱼的合适人选？这似乎不太可能。但他们确实瞄准了他们，并且也击中了他们。但请记住，这里是非常遥远的北方，啤酒非常适合那里的宪法。在赤道上，在我们南部的渔业中，啤酒很容易使标枪手在桅杆头昏昏欲睡，在船上喝得酩酊大醉。楠塔基特岛和新贝德福德可能会遭受严重损失。

But no more; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers of two or three centuries ago were high livers; and that the English whalers have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say they, when cruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of the world, get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties the decanter.
但仅此而已；已经有足够的证据表明，两三个世纪前的老荷兰捕鲸者都是肝气旺盛的人。英国捕鲸者并没有忽视如此出色的例子。他们说，当你乘坐一艘空船航行时，如果你不能从世界上得到更好的东西，至少可以从中得到一顿丰盛的晚餐。这会清空醒酒器。

Chapter 102
第102章

A Bower in the Arsacides.
阿萨西德斯的凉亭。

Hitherto, in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly dwelt upon the marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detail upon some few interior structural features. But to a large and thorough sweeping comprehension of him, it behooves me now to unbutton him still further, and untagging the points of his hose, unbuckling his garters, and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that is to say, in his unconditional skeleton.
到目前为止，在描述抹香鲸时，我主要关注的是它外表的奇迹。或单独详细地介绍一些内部结构特征。但为了对他有一个广泛而彻底的了解，现在我有必要进一步解开他的扣子，解开他软管的尖端，解开他的吊袜带，松开他最里面骨头的关节的钩子和孔眼，把他向你发出最后通牒；也就是说，在他无条件的骨骼中。

But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the whale? Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a specimen rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a roast-pig? Surely not. A veritable witness have you hitherto been, Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone; the privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters, ridge-pole, sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of leviathan; and belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and cheeseries in his bowels.
但现在怎么样，以实玛利？你，一个渔场里的划桨手，怎么会假装对鲸鱼的地下部分一无所知呢？博学的斯塔布是否坐在你的绞盘上发表了有关鲸目动物解剖学的讲座？并借助卷扬机举起肋骨标本进行展览？解释一下你自己，以实玛利。当厨师烹制烤猪时，您可以将一头成年鲸鱼放在甲板上进行检查吗？当然不是。以实玛利，迄今为止，你一直是一位名副其实的见证人；但要小心你如何独占约拿的特权；有权讨论托梁和横梁；椽子、屋脊杆、枕木和底座，构成了利维坦的框架；就像他肠子里的牛脂桶、乳品房、黄油和奶酪。

I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed with an opportunity to dissect him in miniature. In a ship I belonged to, a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his poke or bag, to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the heads of the lances. Think you I let that chance go, without using my boat-hatchet and jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the contents of that young cub?
我承认，自从约拿以来，很少有捕鲸人能够深入到成年鲸鱼的皮肤下很深的地方。尽管如此，我还是有幸有机会对他进行微观剖析。在我所属的一艘船上，一只小抹香鲸幼崽曾经被吊到甲板上，作为他的戳子或袋子，为鱼叉的倒钩和长矛的头部制作护套。你认为我放弃了这个机会，没有使用我的船斧和折刀，也没有打开封印并阅读那只幼崽的所有内容？

And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their gigantic, full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted to my late royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides. For being at Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey of Algiers, I was invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with the lord of Tranque, at his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side glen not very far distant from what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his capital.
至于我对利维坦骨骼在其巨大、成熟发育过程中的确切了解，我要感谢我已故的王室朋友特兰库，他是特兰克的国王，阿萨西德家族的成员之一。几年前，当我在特兰克（Tranque）时，当我隶属于阿尔及尔的商船戴伊（Dey of Algiers）时，我受邀与特兰克（Tranque）的领主一起在他位于普佩拉（Pupella）的退休棕榈别墅中度过了部分阿萨西德假期。距离他的首都、我们的水手所称的竹镇不远的海边峡谷。

Among many other fine qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted with a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu, had brought together in Pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of his people could invent; chiefly carved woods of wonderful devices, chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles, aromatic canoes; and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders, the wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.
除了许多其他优良品质之外，我的王室朋友特兰库对所有野蛮的事物都充满了虔诚的热爱，他在普佩拉汇集了他的人民中更聪明的人可以发明的任何稀有事物；主要是雕刻精美装置的木头、凿刻的贝壳、镶嵌的长矛、昂贵的桨、芳香的独木舟；所有这些都分布在自然奇观中，充满奇观、贡品的海浪冲击着他的海岸。

Chief among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an unusually long raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his head against a cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings seemed his verdant jet. When the vast body had at last been stripped of its fathom-deep enfoldings, and the bones become dust dry in the sun, then the skeleton was carefully transported up the Pupella glen, where a grand temple of lordly palms now sheltered it.
其中最主要的是一头巨大的抹香鲸，在经历了一场异常漫长的狂风之后，人们发现它已经死亡并搁浅，它的头靠在一棵可可树上，它的羽毛状、丛生的下垂就像它翠绿的喷气机。当这具巨大的尸体最终被剥去深不可测的包裹物，骨头在阳光下变得干燥时，骨架被小心地运到普佩拉峡谷，那里有一座宏伟的棕榈树寺庙现在庇护着它。

The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebrae were carved with Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head again sent forth its vapoury spout; while, suspended from a bough, the terrific lower jaw vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung sword that so affrighted Damocles.
肋骨上挂满了奖杯；椎骨上刻有阿萨西德编年史，采用奇怪的象形文字。在头骨中，祭司们保持着未熄灭的芳香火焰，以便神秘的头颅再次喷出蒸气。与此同时，悬挂在树枝上的可怕的下颌在所有信徒的头顶上振动，就像那把让达摩克利斯感到恐惧的悬在头发上的剑。

It was a wondrous sight. The wood was green as mosses of the Icy Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the industrious earth beneath was as a weaver’s loom, with a gorgeous carpet on it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and woof, and the living flowers the figures. All the trees, with all their laden branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying air; all these unceasingly were active. Through the lacings of the leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!—pause!—one word!—whither flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all these ceaseless toilings? Speak, weaver!—stay thy hand!—but one single word with thee! Nay—the shuttle flies—the figures float from forth the loom; the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god, he weaves; and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortal voice; and by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are deafened; and only when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak through it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are plainly heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements. Thereby have villainies been detected. Ah, mortal! then, be heedful; for so, in all this din of the great world’s loom, thy subtlest thinkings may be overheard afar.
这是一个奇妙的景象。树林像冰谷的苔藓一样绿。树木傲然挺立，感受着它们生机勃勃的汁液。下面勤劳的大地就像织布机，上面铺着华丽的地毯，地上的藤蔓构成了经纱和纬纱，鲜活的花朵构成了人物。所有的树木，以及它们满载的枝条；所有的灌木、蕨类植物和草；携带信息的空气；这一切都在不断地活跃着。透过树叶的缝隙，大太阳就像一架飞梭，编织着不倦的翠绿。哦，忙碌的织工！看不见的织布工！——停顿！——一个字！——织物流向何处？它可以装饰什么宫殿？为什么要做这些无休无止的辛劳呢？说吧，织布工！——把手拿开！——只对你说一句话！不，梭子飞翔——人物从织布机上飘来；清新的地毯永远滑落。织神，他编织；由于这种编织，他被震聋了，听不到凡人的声音。听到那嗡嗡声，我们这些观看织布机的人也被震聋了。只有当我们逃离它时，我们才能听到通过它说话的数千种声音。即便如此，所有材料工厂都是如此。飞行纺锤中听不见的言语；同样的话语在墙外也能清晰地听到，从打开的窗扉中迸发出来。从而发现了恶棍。啊，凡人！然后，要小心；因此，在这伟大世界的喧嚣中，你最微妙的想法可能会被远远地听到。

Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging—a gigantic idler! Yet, as the ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around him, the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven over with the vines; every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but himself a skeleton. Life folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim god wived with youthful Life, and begat him curly-headed glories.
现在，在那片阿萨西德森林那片绿色的、生机勃勃的树林中，那尊巨大的、白色的、受人崇拜的骷髅懒洋洋地躺着——一个巨大的闲人！然而，当永远编织的翠绿经纱和纬纱在他周围混合并嗡嗡作响时，这位强大的闲人似乎是狡猾的织布工；他自己全身都被藤蔓缠绕着；每个月都呈现出更绿、更鲜的翠绿；但他自己却是一具骷髅。生命折叠死亡；死亡笼罩着生命；冷酷的神与年轻的生命结婚，并给他带来了卷发的荣耀。

Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited this wondrous whale, and saw the skull an altar, and the artificial smoke ascending from where the real jet had issued, I marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as an object of vertu. He laughed. But more I marvelled that the priests should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine. To and fro I paced before this skeleton—brushed the vines aside—broke through the ribs—and with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid its many winding, shaded colonnades and arbours. But soon my line was out; and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered. I saw no living thing within; naught was there but bones.
现在，当我与皇家特兰科一起参观这头奇妙的鲸鱼时，看到头骨是一座祭坛，人造烟雾从真正的喷气机喷出的地方升起，我惊叹国王竟然将一座教堂视为崇高的目标。他笑了。但更让我惊奇的是，牧师们竟然发誓他喷出的烟雾是真的。我在这具骷髅前来回踱步——拨开藤蔓——冲破肋骨——带着一团阿萨西德麻线，在它众多蜿蜒、阴凉的柱廊和凉亭中徘徊、旋转。但很快我的电话就断了；跟着它回来，我从我进去的那个洞口出来了。我没有看到里面有任何生物；那里除了骨头什么也没有。

Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton. From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the altitude of the final rib, ‘How now!’ they shouted; ‘Dar’st thou measure this our god! That’s for us.’ ‘Aye, priests—well, how long do ye make him, then?’ But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, concerning feet and inches; they cracked each other’s sconces with their yard-sticks—the great skull echoed—and seizing that lucky chance, I quickly concluded my own admeasurements.
我砍下一根绿色的量杆，再次潜入骷髅内部。祭司们从头骨上的箭缝中看到我正处于最后一根肋骨的高度，“现在怎么样！”他们喊道； ‘你竟敢测量我们的上帝！ “是的，祭司们——那么，你们要把他造多久呢？”但随即，他们之间就英尺和英寸展开了激烈的争论；他们用码尺敲碎了彼此的烛台——巨大的头骨回响——抓住这个幸运的机会，我很快就得出了自己的尺寸。

These admeasurements I now propose to set before you. But first, be it recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any fancied measurement I please. Because there are skeleton authorities you can refer to, to test my accuracy. There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell me, in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where they have some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales. Likewise, I have heard that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have what the proprietors call ‘the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or River Whale in the United States.’ Moreover, at a place in Yorkshire, England, Burton Constable by name, a certain Sir Clifford Constable has in his possession the skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size, by no means of the full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo’s.
我现在建议将这些措施摆在你们面前。但首先，请注意，在这件事上，我不能随意说出任何我喜欢的想象的衡量标准。因为有骨架权威你可以参考，来检验我的准确性。他们告诉我，在英国的捕鲸港口之一赫尔有一个利维坦博物馆，那里有一些长须鲸和其他鲸鱼的精美标本。同样，我听说在新罕布什尔州的曼彻斯特博物馆里，藏着业主所说的“美国唯一完美的格陵兰鲸或河鲸标本。”此外，在英国约克郡的一个地方，伯顿克利福德·康斯特布尔爵士名叫克利福德·康斯特布尔，他拥有一具抹香鲸的骨架，但大小适中，远不及我朋友特兰阔国王成年后的大小。

In both cases, the stranded whales to which these two skeletons belonged, were originally claimed by their proprietors upon similar grounds. King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and Sir Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those parts. Sir Clifford’s whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony cavities—spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan—and swing all day upon his lower jaw. Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and shutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of keys at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence to hear the echo in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view from his forehead.
在这两种情况下，这两具骸骨所属的搁浅鲸鱼最初都是由它们的所有者基于类似的理由主张的。特兰科国王夺取了他的，因为他想要它；还有克利福德爵士，因为他是这些地区领地的领主。克利福德爵士的鲸鱼自始至终都有清晰的表达；这样，就像一个巨大的五斗柜一样，你可以打开和关闭他所有的骨腔——像一把巨大的扇子一样展开他的肋骨——并整天在他的下颌上摆动。他的一些活板门和百叶窗要上锁；一名男仆将带着一串钥匙带往未来的访客。克利福德爵士考虑收取两便士的费用来窥视脊柱中的回音壁；三便士就能听到他小脑深处的回声；六便士的价格是为了从他的额头上看到无与伦比的景色。

The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving such valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wished the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was then composing—at least, what untattooed parts might remain—I did not trouble myself with the odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all enter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale.
我现在要开始记录的骨骼尺寸是从我纹身的右臂上逐字复制的；就像我在那个时期的疯狂漫游一样，没有其他安全的方法来保存如此有价值的统计数据。但由于空间拥挤，我希望身体的其他部分对于我当时正在创作的一首诗来说仍然是一张空白页——至少，那些未纹身的部分可能会保留下来——我没有为那些奇怪的英寸而烦恼；事实上，英寸也不应该成为鲸鱼的合适尺寸。

Chapter 103
第103章

Measurement of The Whale’s Skeleton.
鲸鱼骨骼的测量。

In the first place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain statement, touching the living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton we are briefly to exhibit. Such a statement may prove useful here.
首先，我想向你们提出一个特别的、简单的声明，触及这个利维坦的活体，我们将简要展示它的骨架。这样的陈述在这里可能有用。

According to a careful calculation I have made, and which I partly base upon Captain Scoresby’s estimate, of seventy tons for the largest sized Greenland whale of sixty feet in length; according to my careful calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest magnitude, between eighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less than forty feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at least ninety tons; so that, reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one thousand one hundred inhabitants.
根据我的仔细计算（部分基于斯科斯比船长的估计），最大的格陵兰鲸长六十英尺，重量为七十吨；根据我的仔细计算，我说，最大的抹香鲸，长度在八十五到九十英尺之间，最大周长不到四十英尺，这样的鲸鱼的重量至少有九十吨；因此，按十三人一吨计算，他的体重远远超过整个村庄一千一百名居民的人口总和。

Think you not then that brains, like yoked cattle, should be put to this leviathan, to make him at all budge to any landsman’s imagination?
难道你不认为大脑就像套上轭的牛一样，应该被放在这个利维坦身上，让他完全屈服于任何土地居民的想象力吗？

Having already in various ways put before you his skull, spout-hole, jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts, I shall now simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of his unobstructed bones. But as the colossal skull embraces so very large a proportion of the entire extent of the skeleton; as it is by far the most complicated part; and as nothing is to be repeated concerning it in this chapter, you must not fail to carry it in your mind, or under your arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not gain a complete notion of the general structure we are about to view.
我已经以各种方式将他的头骨、喷口、下颌、牙齿、尾巴、前额、鳍和其他各个部分展示在你面前，现在我将简单地指出他大部分畅通无阻的骨头中最有趣的部分。但由于巨大的头骨占据了整个骨骼的很大一部分；因为它是迄今为止最复杂的部分；由于本章中不会重复任何内容，因此在我们继续讨论时，您一定不能忘记它，或者放在您的手臂下，否则您将无法获得我们将要看到的总体结构的完整概念。

In length, the Sperm Whale’s skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two Feet; so that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have been ninety feet long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one fifth in length compared with the living body. Of this seventy-two feet, his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty feet of plain back-bone. Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a third of its length, was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once enclosed his vitals.
特兰克抹香鲸的骨骼长度为七十二英尺；因此，当他完全投入并延长生命时，他一定有九十英尺长。因为与活体相比，鲸鱼的骨骼长度减少了约五分之一。在这七十二英尺中，他的头骨和下巴约占二十英尺，剩下约五十英尺的普通脊骨。附着在这块脊骨上的，长度还不到其三分之一，是一个巨大的圆形肋骨篮，曾经包围着他的要害。

To me this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine, extending far away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled the hull of a great ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some twenty of her naked bow-ribs are inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the time, but a long, disconnected timber.
对我来说，这个巨大的象牙肋箱子，有长长的、没有缓解的脊椎，以直线延伸到很远的地方，有点像一艘新铺设在桅杆上的大船的船体，当时她只有大约二十个赤身裸体的人。弓肋被插入，龙骨暂时是一根长的、不连贯的木材。

The ribs were ten on a side. The first, to begin from the neck, was nearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each successively longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one of the middle ribs, which measured eight feet and some inches. From that part, the remaining ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only spanned five feet and some inches. In general thickness, they all bore a seemly correspondence to their length. The middle ribs were the most arched. In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay footpath bridges over small streams.
肋骨每边有十根。第一个，从脖子开始，有近六英尺长；第二、第三、第四根逐渐变长，直到第五根肋骨或中间一根肋骨的顶点，长度为八英尺零几英寸。从那部分开始，剩余的肋骨逐渐减少，直到第十根也是最后一根肋骨仅跨度五英尺几英寸。总体而言，它们的厚度都与其长度相匹配。中间的肋骨最圆拱。在一些安息石中，它们被用作横梁，在小溪上铺设人行桥。

In considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the circumstance, so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form. The largest of the Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, the greatest depth of the invested body of this particular whale must have been at least sixteen feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little more than eight feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion of the living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where I now saw but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round with tons of added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for the ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place of the weighty and majestic, but boneless flukes, an utter blank!
在考虑这些肋骨时，我不禁再次对这本书中多次重复的情况感到震惊，即鲸鱼的骨架绝不是他所投资形式的模型。最大的 Tranque 肋骨，即中间的肋骨之一，占据了鱼一生中深度最大的部分。现在，这头鲸的身体最大深度肯定至少有十六英尺；然而，相应的肋骨仅多于八英尺。因此，这根肋骨只传达了该部分生命大小的一半真实概念。此外，在某种程度上，我现在看到的只是一根裸露的脊柱，所有这些都曾经被大量的肉、肌肉、血液和肠子包裹着。更重要的是，对于宽大的鳍，我在这里只看到了一些紊乱的关节；取而代之的是沉重而雄伟但无骨的侥幸，一片空白！

How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over his dead attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood. No. Only in the heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of his angry flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested whale be truly and livingly found out.
那么，我想，对于胆怯的未出过境的人来说，仅仅通过凝视在这片宁静的树林中伸展的死去的瘦弱的骨架来试图正确理解这头奇妙的鲸鱼，是多么虚荣和愚蠢。不，只有在最危险的时候；只有当他处于愤怒的侥幸的漩涡之中时；只有在深邃无际的大海上，才能真正、活灵活现地发现全身心投入的鲸鱼。

But the spine. For that, the best way we can consider it is, with a crane, to pile its bones high up on end. No speedy enterprise. But now it’s done, it looks much like Pompey’s Pillar.
但脊柱。为此，我们可以考虑的最好方法是用起重机将其骨头堆高。没有快速的企业。但现在它已经完成了，看起来很像庞培的支柱。

There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are not locked together. They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on a Gothic spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry. The largest, a middle one, is in width something less than three feet, and in depth more than four. The smallest, where the spine tapers away into the tail, is only two inches in width, and looks something like a white billiard-ball. I was told that there were still smaller ones, but they had been lost by some little cannibal urchins, the priest’s children, who had stolen them to play marbles with. Thus we see how that the spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last into simple child’s play.
总共有四十多块椎骨，它们在骨骼中并不是锁在一起的。它们大多像哥特式尖顶上的巨大旋钮一样，形成坚固的厚重砖石层。最大的是中间的一个，宽度不到三英尺，深度超过四英尺。最小的，脊柱逐渐变细，进入尾部，宽度只有两英寸，看起来像一个白色的台球。有人告诉我，还有一些较小的，但它们被一些食人小顽童、牧师的孩子们偷走了，用来玩弹珠。因此，我们看到，即使是最大的生物的脊柱最终也会逐渐变细，变成简单的儿童游戏。

Chapter 104
第104章

The Fossil Whale.
鲸鱼化石。

From his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon to enlarge, amplify, and generally expatiate. Would you, you could not compress him. By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial folio. Not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracle to tail, and the yards he measures about the waist; only think of the gigantic involutions of his intestines, where they lie in him like great cables and hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck of a line-of-battle-ship.
鲸鱼以其巨大的体积提供了一个最适宜的主题，可以在此基础上放大、放大和一般性地阐述。你会吗，你无法压缩他。按照良好的权利，他应该只在皇家对开本中受到对待。不要再说一遍他从气孔到尾巴的弗隆，以及他测量腰部的码数；只要想想他的肠子巨大的内卷，它们就像巨大的电缆和缆索盘绕在战列舰的地下或洛普甲板上一样。

Since I have undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan, it behooves me to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise; not overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and spinning him out to the uttermost coil of his bowels. Having already described him in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it now remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossiliferous, and antediluvian point of view. Applied to any other creature than the Leviathan—to an ant or a flea—such portly terms might justly be deemed unwarrantably grandiloquent. But when Leviathan is the text, the case is altered. Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under the weightiest words of the dictionary. And here be it said, that whenever it has been convenient to consult one in the course of these dissertations, I have invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson, expressly purchased for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer’s uncommon personal bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a whale author like me.
既然我已经着手对付这个利维坦，我就应该承认自己在这项事业中无所不知、详尽无遗。没有忽视他血液中最微小的精液细菌，并将他旋转到肠子的最深处。我们已经描述了他目前的大部分栖息地和解剖学特征，现在需要从考古学、化石和古洪水的角度来放大他。应用于除了利维坦之外的任何其他生物——蚂蚁或跳蚤——这样的肥胖术语可能会被合理地认为是毫无根据的浮夸。但当文本为《利维坦》时，情况就发生了变化。我很乐意在字典中最重要的单词下摇摇晃晃地走向这个事业。这里要说的是，每当在这些论文的过程中方便查阅时，我总是使用一本巨大的四开本约翰逊的著作，这是专门为此目的购买的。因为那位著名的词典编纂者不寻常的个人体积更适合他编写词典，供像我这样的鲸鱼作者使用。

One often hears of writers that rise and swell with their subject, though it may seem but an ordinary one. How, then, with me, writing of this Leviathan? Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard capitals. Give me a condor’s quill! Give me Vesuvius’ crater for an inkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning my thoughts of this Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole circle of the sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and mastodons, past, present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas of empire on earth, and throughout the whole universe, not excluding its suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal theme! We expand to its bulk. To produce a mighty book, you must choose a mighty theme. No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the flea, though many there be who have tried it.
人们经常听说一些作家随着他们的主题而崛起和膨胀，尽管这可能看起来只是一个普通的作家。那么，我该如何书写这个利维坦呢？不知不觉中，我的书法扩展到标语牌大写字母。给我一支秃鹰的羽毛笔！给我维苏威火山口当墨水瓶！朋友们，握住我的手臂吧！因为仅仅在写下我对这个利维坦的想法的时候，它们就让我感到厌倦，并因为它们广泛的全面性而使我晕倒，仿佛涵盖了整个科学圈，以及所有世代的鲸鱼、人类和人类。乳齿象，过去、现在和未来，以及地球上和整个宇宙的帝国的所有旋转全景，不排除其郊区。这就是宏大而自由的主题的优点！我们扩大规模。要写出一本伟大的书，你必须选择一个伟大的主题。尽管有很多人尝试过，但关于跳蚤的著作永远无法写出伟大而持久的著作。

Ere entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales, I present my credentials as a geologist, by stating that in my miscellaneous time I have been a stone-mason, and also a great digger of ditches, canals and wells, wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts. Likewise, by way of preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while in the earlier geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now almost completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are called the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate intercepted links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose remote posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Whales hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the last preceding the superficial formations. And though none of them precisely answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet sufficiently akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking rank as Cetacean fossils.
在进入化石鲸鱼的主题之前，我首先介绍一下我作为地质学家的资历，说在我的各种时间里，我曾是一名石匠，也是一名伟大的沟渠、运河和水井、酒库、地窖、和各种水箱。同样，首先，我想提醒读者，虽然在早期的地质层中发现了现在几乎完全灭绝的怪物化石；随后在所谓的第三纪地层中发现的遗迹似乎是反时代生物和据说其远祖进入方舟的生物之间的联系，或者至少是截断的联系。迄今为止发现的所有化石鲸鱼都属于第三纪，这是地层之前的最后一个时期。尽管它们中没有一个能够准确地回答当今任何已知的物种，但它们在一般方面仍然与它们足够相似，以证明它们被列为鲸类化石是合理的。

Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their bones and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals, been found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama. Among the more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the year 1779 was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street opening almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones disinterred in excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon’s time. Cuvier pronounced these fragments to have belonged to some utterly unknown Leviathanic species.
在过去的三十年里，在阿尔卑斯山脚下、伦巴第、法国、英格兰、苏格兰和欧洲，人们在不同的时间间隔内发现了前亚当鲸的独立破碎化石，以及它们的骨头和骨骼碎片。路易斯安那州、密西西比州和阿拉巴马州。这些遗骸中最令人好奇的是一个头骨的一部分，它于 1779 年在巴黎的多芬街 (Rue Dauphine) 出土，这是一条几乎直接面向杜伊勒里宫 (Tuileries) 的短街；拿破仑时代，在挖掘安特卫普大码头时挖出了骨头。居维叶宣称这些碎片属于一些完全未知的利维坦物种。

But by far the most wonderful of all Cetacean relics was the almost complete vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year 1842, on the plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama. The awe-stricken credulous slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen angels. The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed upon it the name of Basilosaurus. But some specimen bones of it being taken across the sea to Owen, the English Anatomist, it turned out that this alleged reptile was a whale, though of a departed species. A significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this book, that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the shape of his fully invested body. So Owen rechristened the monster Zeuglodon; and in his paper read before the London Geological Society, pronounced it, in substance, one of the most extraordinary creatures which the mutations of the globe have blotted out of existence.
但迄今为止，所有鲸目动物遗迹中最奇妙的是一具几乎完整的已灭绝怪物的巨大骨架，它于 1842 年在阿拉巴马州贾奇·克雷 (Judge Creagh) 的种植园中发现。附近那些惊恐万分、轻信的奴隶以为这是其中一位堕落天使的骨头。阿拉巴马州的医生宣布它是一种巨大的爬行动物，并赋予它“龙王龙”的名字。但它的一些标本骨头被漂洋过海带到英国解剖学家欧文那里，结果证明这种所谓的爬行动物是鲸鱼，尽管是一种已经灭绝的物种。本书中一次又一次地重复了这一事实的一个重要例证：鲸鱼的骨骼几乎没有提供关于其完全投入的身体形状的线索。于是欧文将怪物重新命名为Zeuglodon；他在伦敦地质学会面前宣读的论文中宣称，它实质上是最非凡的生物之一，但地球的突变已使其不复存在。

When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons, skulls, tusks, jaws, ribs, and vertebrae, all characterized by partial resemblances to the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time bearing on the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical Leviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back to that wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun; for time began with man. Here Saturn’s grey chaos rolls over me, and I obtain dim, shuddering glimpses into those Polar eternities; when wedged bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the Tropics; and in all the 25,000 miles of this world’s circumference, not an inhabitable hand’s breadth of land was visible. Then the whole world was the whale’s; and, king of creation, he left his wake along the present lines of the Andes and the Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigree like Leviathan? Ahab’s harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh’s. Methuselah seems a school-boy. I look round to shake hands with Shem. I am horror-struck at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the unspeakable terrors of the whale, which, having been before all time, must needs exist after all humane ages are over.
当我站在这些巨大的利维坦骨骼、头骨、獠牙、下巴、肋骨和椎骨中间时，它们的特征都与现有的海怪品种有部分相似之处；但另一方面，他们也对被消灭的反时代利维坦——它们不可估量的前辈——有着类似的亲和力；在时间本身可以说开始之前，我被洪水带回了那个奇妙的时期；因为时间是从人开始的。在这里，土星的灰色混乱笼罩着我，我模糊地、颤抖地瞥见了那些极地的永恒；当楔形的冰堡垒猛烈地压在现在的热带地区时；在这个世界的25,000英里的周长中，看不见一巴掌大小的可供居住的土地。那么整个世界都是鲸鱼的；作为创造之王，他沿着现在的安第斯山脉和喜马拉雅山脉留下了足迹。谁能展现出利维坦这样的血统？亚哈的鱼叉流下的血比法老的更古老。玛土撒拉看起来像个小学生。我环顾四周，准备与闪握手。我对鲸鱼这种难以言喻的恐惧的前马赛克、无源的存在感到震惊，这种恐惧在任何时候都存在，在所有人道时代结束后也必须存在。

But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in the stereotype plates of nature, and in limestone and marl bequeathed his ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, whose antiquity seems to claim for them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakable print of his fin. In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah, some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs, griffins, and dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe of the moderns. Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was there swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was cradled.
但不仅是这个利维坦在大自然的刻板印象中留下了前亚当的痕迹，还在石灰岩和泥灰岩中留下了他古老的半身像；但在埃及的石碑上，我们发现了他的鳍的明显印记，其历史似乎表明它们具有几乎是化石的特征。大约五十年前，在丹德拉大神庙的一间公寓里，人们在花岗岩天花板上发现了一个雕刻和彩绘的平面球，里面有很多半人马、狮鹫和海豚，类似于现代天球仪上的怪诞人物。老利维坦在他们中间滑翔，像以前一样游泳；在所罗门诞生之前的几个世纪里，有人在那个平面球中游泳吗？

Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity of the whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by the venerable John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.
也不能忽略鲸鱼古老的另一个奇怪的证明，在他自己的骨质后大洪水现实中，正如可敬的巴巴里老旅行者约翰·利奥所记载的那样。

‘Not far from the Sea-side, they have a Temple, the Rafters and Beams of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales of a monstrous size are oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore. The Common People imagine, that by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the temple, no Whale can pass it without immediate death. But the truth of the Matter is, that on either side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into the Sea, and wound the Whales when they light upon ‘em. They keep a Whale’s Rib of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be reached by a Man upon a Camel’s Back. This Rib (says John Leo) is said to have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it. Their Historians affirm, that a Prophet who prophesy’d of Mahomet, came from this Temple, and some do not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth by the Whale at the Base of the Temple.’
‘离海边不远，有一座庙宇，其椽梁皆为鲸骨；因为体型巨大的鲸鱼经常被抛到岸边死去。普通人想象，通过上帝赋予神庙的秘密力量，没有鲸鱼可以通过它而不立即死亡。但事情的真相是，在圣殿的两侧，都有岩石射入海中两英里，当鲸鱼落在鲸鱼身上时，它们就会受伤。他们保留了一根令人难以置信的长度的鲸鱼肋骨，以创造奇迹，它躺在地上，其凸出的部分在上面，形成一个拱门，骆驼背上的人无法到达拱门的头部。据说这根肋骨（约翰·利奥说）在我看到它之前一百年就已经放在那里了。他们的历史学家断言，预言穆罕默德的先知来自这座圣殿，但有些人不能断言，先知乔纳斯是被圣殿底部的鲸鱼抛弃的。

In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you, reader, and if you be a Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship there.
读者，我把你留在这座非洲鲸鱼神庙里，如果你是楠塔基特人和捕鲸人，你会在那里默默地崇拜。

Chapter 105
第105章

Does the Whale’s Magnitude Diminish?—Will He Perish?
鲸鱼的体型会减小吗？——他会灭亡吗？

Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from the head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether, in the long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the original bulk of his sires.
因此，当这个利维坦从永恒的源头向我们扑来时，我们可以适当地询问，在他的世代的漫长岁月中，他是否没有从他祖先的原始体积中退化。

But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of the present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are found in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period prior to man), but of the whales found in that Tertiary system, those belonging to its latter formations exceed in size those of its earlier ones.
但经过调查我们发现，当今的鲸鱼不仅在数量上优于在第三纪系统（包含人类之前的一个独特的地质时期）中发现的化石遗骸的鲸鱼，而且在第三纪系统中发现的鲸鱼也优于第三纪系统中发现的鲸鱼。 ，属于其后期编队的那些在大小上超过了其早期编队的规模。

Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far the largest is the Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was less than seventy feet in length in the skeleton. Whereas, we have already seen, that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a large sized modern whale. And I have heard, on whalemen’s authority, that Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of capture.
在所有已出土的前亚当鲸中，迄今为止最大的是上一章提到的阿拉巴马鲸，它的骨架长度不到七十英尺。然而，我们已经看到，卷尺测量出的大型现代鲸鱼的骨骼长度为 72 英尺。我听说，根据捕鲸者的权威，捕获的抹香鲸在捕获时有近一百英尺长。

But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may it not be, that since Adam’s time they have degenerated?
但也许情况并非如此，虽然现在的鲸鱼数量比以前所有地质时期的鲸鱼数量都有所进步；但事实并非如此。难道自亚当时代以来他们就已经堕落了吗？

Assuredly, we must conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such gentlemen as Pliny, and the ancient naturalists generally. For Pliny tells us of Whales that embraced acres of living bulk, and Aldrovandus of others which measured eight hundred feet in length—Rope Walks and Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in the days of Banks and Solander, Cooke’s naturalists, we find a Danish member of the Academy of Sciences setting down certain Iceland Whales (reydan-siskur, or Wrinkled Bellies) at one hundred and twenty yards; that is, three hundred and sixty feet. And Lacepede, the French naturalist, in his elaborate history of whales, in the very beginning of his work (page 3), sets down the Right Whale at one hundred metres, three hundred and twenty-eight feet. And this work was published so late as A.D. 1825.
毫无疑问，如果我们要相信像普林尼这样的绅士以及一般古代博物学家的记载，我们就必须得出这样的结论。因为普林尼告诉我们鲸鱼拥抱着数英亩的活体，而阿尔德罗万杜斯则告诉我们其他长达八百英尺的鲸鱼——鲸鱼的绳索步道和泰晤士河隧道！即使在库克的博物学家班克斯和索兰德的时代，我们也发现一位丹麦科学院院士在一百二十码处放下了某些冰岛鲸（reydan-siskur，或皱纹腹部）；也就是说，三百六十英尺。法国博物学家拉塞佩德（Lacepede）在其详尽的鲸鱼历史中，在其著作的一开始（第 3 页），将露脊鲸置于一百米三百二十八英尺的高度。这部著作直到公元 1825 年才出版。

But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day is as big as his ancestors in Pliny’s time. And if ever I go where Pliny is, I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so. Because I cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies that were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not measure so much in their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks; and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which they are drawn, just as plainly prove that the high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle of Smithfield, not only equal, but far exceed in magnitude the fattest of Pharaoh’s fat kine; in the face of all this, I will not admit that of all animals the whale alone should have degenerated.
但捕鲸人会相信这些故事吗？不。今天的鲸鱼和它在普林尼时代的祖先一样大。如果我去普林尼所在的地方，我，一个捕鲸人（比他更多），会大胆地告诉他。因为我无法理解为什么埃及木乃伊在普林尼出生前几千年就被埋葬了，但他们在棺材里的尺寸却不如现代肯塔基人在袜子里的尺寸；虽然牛和其他动物雕刻在最古老的埃及和尼尼微石碑上，但按照它们绘制的相对比例，同样清楚地证明了史密斯菲尔德的高教养、畜栏饲养的优质牛不仅是平等的，而且其体型远远超过了法老最肥的肥牛；面对这一切，我不会承认所有动物中只有鲸鱼应该退化。

But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the more recondite Nantucketers. Whether owing to the almost omniscient look-outs at the mast-heads of the whaleships, now penetrating even through Behring’s straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers of the world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all continental coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure so wide a chase, and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not at last be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like the last man, smoke his last pipe, and then himself evaporate in the final puff.
但还有另一项调查仍在继续；一个经常被更深奥的楠塔基特人激怒的人。是否是由于捕鲸船桅顶几乎无所不知的监视，现在甚至可以穿透贝林海峡，进入世界上最偏远的秘密抽屉和储物柜；数以千计的鱼叉和长矛沿着所有大陆海岸飞驰。争论的焦点是，利维坦能否长期承受如此广泛的追逐和如此无情的破坏？他是否最终一定会被从水域中消灭掉，而最后一条鲸鱼，就像最后一个人一样，抽完最后一根烟斗，然后在最后一口烟中蒸发掉。

Comparing the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffalo, which, not forty years ago, overspread by tens of thousands the prairies of Illinois and Missouri, and shook their iron manes and scowled with their thunder-clotted brows upon the sites of populous river-capitals, where now the polite broker sells you land at a dollar an inch; in such a comparison an irresistible argument would seem furnished, to show that the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction.
将驼峰的鲸鱼群与驼峰的水牛群进行比较，不到四十年前，水牛群遍布伊利诺伊州和密苏里州的大草原，在人口稠密的地方摇动着铁鬃，用雷霆般的眉毛皱起眉头。河流首府，现在礼貌的经纪人以每英寸一美元的价格向你出售土地；在这样的比较中，似乎提供了一个不可抗拒的论据，表明被猎杀的鲸鱼现在无法逃脱迅速灭绝的命运。

But you must look at this matter in every light. Though so short a period ago—not a good lifetime—the census of the buffalo in Illinois exceeded the census of men now in London, and though at the present day not one horn or hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the cause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far different nature of the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an end to the Leviathan. Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whales for forty-eight months think they have done extremely well, and thank God, if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish. Whereas, in the days of the old Canadian and Indian hunters and trappers of the West, when the far west (in whose sunset suns still rise) was a wilderness and a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for the same number of months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships, would have slain not forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact that, if need were, could be statistically stated.
但你必须从各个角度来看待这件事。尽管不久之前——不是一个美好的一生——伊利诺伊州水牛的人口普查超过了伦敦现在的人口普查，尽管如今在整个该地区，水牛的一只角或一只蹄子都没有留下；但在这之前，水牛的数量已经超过了伦敦的人口数量。尽管这场奇妙的灭绝的原因是人类的长矛；然而，捕鲸活动的性质截然不同，坚决禁止以如此不光彩的方式终结利维坦。四十个人在一艘船上捕猎抹香鲸四十八个月，他们认为自己做得非常好，感谢上帝，如果他们最终把四十条鱼的油带回家。然而，在加拿大和印第安人西部猎人和捕猎者的时代，当遥远的西部（夕阳仍在升起）还是一片荒野和处女地时，同样数量的鹿皮鞋男人，同样的月份如果骑着马而不是乘船航行，他杀死的不是四十头水牛，而是四万头甚至更多的水牛。如果需要的话，可以通过统计来说明这一事实。

Nor, considered aright, does it seem any argument in favour of the gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former years (the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in small pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in consequence, the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more remunerative. Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales, influenced by some views to safety, now swim the seas in immense caravans, so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, and pods, and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but widely separated, unfrequent armies. That is all. And equally fallacious seems the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bone whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with them, hence that species also is declining. For they are only being driven from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with their jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been very recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.
考虑到正确性，似乎也没有任何支持抹香鲸逐渐灭绝的论据，例如，在过去的几年（例如上世纪下半叶），这些小豆荚中的利维坦更常见与现在相比，航程时间没有那么长，而且报酬也高得多。因为，正如在其他地方所注意到的那样，那些鲸鱼受到某些安全观的影响，现在在巨大的商队中在海洋中游泳，因此在很大程度上，以前分散的孤群、轭、群和鱼群现在聚集成数量庞大但分散且罕见的军队。就这些。同样错误的想法是，由于所谓的鲸骨鲸不再出没于昔日盛产鲸鱼的地方，因此该物种也在减少。因为他们只是从海角被赶到海角；如果一个海岸不再因喷气式飞机而充满活力，那么可以肯定的是，其他一些更偏远的海岸最近也被这种陌生的景象所震惊。

Furthermore: concerning these last mentioned Leviathans, they have two firm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain impregnable. And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frosty Swiss have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted from the savannas and glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at last resort to their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers and walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in a charmed circle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man.
此外：关于最后提到的这些利维坦，它们有两个坚固的堡垒，在人类的所有可能性中，它们将永远保持坚不可摧。就像入侵他们的山谷一样，寒冷的瑞士人也撤退到了山区。因此，在中海的稀树草原和空地上遭到猎杀的鲸骨鲸最终可以求助于它们的极地城堡，潜入那里终极的玻璃屏障和墙壁下，在冰冷的田野和浮冰中浮现；在永恒的十二月的迷人圆圈中，蔑视人类的一切追求。

But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions. But though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than 13,000, have been annually slain on the nor’-west coast by the Americans alone; yet there are considerations which render even this circumstance of little or no account as an opposing argument in this matter.
但由于一艘鲸鱼可能有五十头鲸骨鲸被鱼叉刺伤，艏楼的一些哲学家得出结论，这种积极的破坏已经非常严重地削弱了他们的营力。但尽管在过去一段时间里，仅在西北海岸，每年就有不少于 13,000 头鲸鱼被美国人捕杀；然而，有一些考虑使得这种情况很少或根本不被认为是这个问题上的反对论点。

Natural as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning the populousness of the more enormous creatures of the globe, yet what shall we say to Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells us that at one hunting the King of Siam took 4,000 elephants; that in those regions elephants are numerous as droves of cattle in the temperate climes. And there seems no reason to doubt that if these elephants, which have now been hunted for thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus, by Hannibal, and by all the successive monarchs of the East—if they still survive there in great numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all hunting, since he has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as large as all Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the Isles of the sea combined.
人们自然会对地球上更庞大的生物的数量感到怀疑，但当果阿历史学家哈托告诉我们，暹罗国王在一次狩猎中捕获了 4,000 头大象时，我们该说些什么呢？在这些地区，大象的数量就像温带地区的牛群一样多。似乎没有理由怀疑，这些已经被塞米拉米斯、波鲁斯、汉尼拔以及东方历代君主猎杀了数千年的大象——如果它们仍然大量生存在那里，更重要的是，大鲸鱼比所有的捕猎活动都更长久，因为它有一片牧场可供栖息，其面积恰好是整个亚洲、美洲、欧洲和非洲、新荷兰和所有海洋岛屿总和的两倍。

Moreover: we are to consider, that from the presumed great longevity of whales, their probably attaining the age of a century and more, therefore at any one period of time, several distinct adult generations must be contemporary. And what that is, we may soon gain some idea of, by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults of creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and children who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this countless host to the present human population of the globe.
此外：我们要考虑到，根据假定的鲸鱼的长寿，它们可能达到一个世纪甚至更久，因此在任何一个时期，几个不同的成年代必定是同时代的。想象一下所有的墓地、公墓和家庭墓穴，都交出了七十五年前活着的所有男人、女人和儿童的活体，我们很快就会对那是什么有了一些了解。 ;并将这无数的宿主添加到地球目前的人口中。

Wherefore, for all these things, we account the whale immortal in his species, however perishable in his individuality. He swam the seas before the continents broke water; he once swam over the site of the Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin. In Noah’s flood he despised Noah’s Ark; and if ever the world is to be again flooded, like the Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale will still survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial flood, spout his frothed defiance to the skies.
因此，尽管如此，我们仍认为鲸鱼在其物种中是不朽的，尽管其个体性会消亡。在大陆破水之前，他就游过了大海。他曾经游过杜乐丽宫、温莎城堡和克里姆林宫。在诺亚洪水中，他鄙视诺亚方舟；如果世界再次像荷兰那样被洪水淹没，以杀死老鼠，那么永恒的鲸鱼仍然会生存，并在赤道洪水的最高顶上站立，向天空喷出他的泡沫般的反抗。

Chapter 106
第106章

Ahab’s Leg.
亚哈的腿。

The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the Samuel Enderby of London, had not been unattended with some small violence to his own person. He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of his boat that his ivory leg had received a half-splintering shock. And when after gaining his own deck, and his own pivot-hole there, he so vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman (it was, as ever, something about his not steering inflexibly enough); then, the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and wrench, that though it still remained entire, and to all appearances lusty, yet Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.
亚哈船长突然离开伦敦塞缪尔·恩德比号，他本人也受到了一些小小的暴力。他用如此大的力量击中了他的船的横座，以至于他的象牙腿受到了一半的冲击。当他获得自己的甲板和那里的枢轴孔后，他如此激烈地转过身，向舵手发出紧急命令（一如既往，这是因为他的转向不够灵活）；然后，已经摇晃的象牙又受到了额外的扭曲和扭力，尽管它仍然完整，而且看起来很坚固，但亚哈并不认为它完全值得信赖。

And, indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his pervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had not been very long prior to the Pequod’s sailing from Nantucket, that he had been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible; by some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his ivory limb having been so violently displaced, that it had stake-wise smitten, and all but pierced his groin; nor was it without extreme difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured.
事实上，尽管亚哈到处都是疯狂的鲁莽行为，但他有时确实会仔细注意他部分站立的那根枯骨的状况，这似乎并不令人惊奇。因为就在“裴阔德”号从楠塔基特岛启航前不久，有一天晚上，有人发现他俯卧在地上，失去了知觉。由于某种未知的、看似莫名其妙、难以想象的伤亡，他的象牙肢体剧烈移位，被木桩击中，几乎刺穿了他的腹股沟；完全治愈那令人痛苦的伤口也是费了很大的劲。

Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most poisonous reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, all miserable events do naturally beget their like. Yea, more than equally, thought Ahab; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the ancestry and posterity of Joy. For, not to hint of this: that it is an inference from certain canonic teachings, that while some natural enjoyments here shall have no children born to them for the other world, but, on the contrary, shall be followed by the joy-childlessness of all hell’s despair; whereas, some guilty mortal miseries shall still fertilely beget to themselves an eternally progressive progeny of griefs beyond the grave; not at all to hint of this, there still seems an inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing. For, thought Ahab, while even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain unsignifying pettiness lurking in them, but, at bottom, all heartwoes, a mystic significance, and, in some men, an archangelic grandeur; so do their diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction. To trail the genealogies of these high mortal miseries, carries us at last among the sourceless primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the glad, hay-making suns, and soft cymballing, round harvest-moons, we must needs give in to this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad. The ineffaceable, sad birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in the signers.
当时，他的偏执狂脑子里也曾想到，当时眼前的痛苦所带来的所有痛苦只不过是以前的灾难的直接后果；他似乎也清楚地看到，沼泽中最毒的爬行动物不可避免地会延续自己的同类，就像树林中最甜美的歌者一样。因此，与一切幸福一样，所有悲惨的事件也自然会产生类似的事件。是的，不只是平等，亚哈想。因为悲伤的祖先和后代比欢乐的祖先和后代走得更远。因为，不要暗示这一点：这是从某些经典教义中得出的推论，虽然这里的一些自然享受不会为另一个世界生下孩子，但相反，随之而来的是无孩子的快乐。地狱般的绝望；然而，一些有罪的凡人苦难仍将在坟墓之外孕育出永远进步的悲伤后代；完全没有暗示这一点，对此事的更深入分析似乎仍然存在不平等。亚哈想，虽然世上最高的幸福也潜藏着某种微不足道的小事，但归根结底，所有的心痛、神秘的意义，以及在某些人身上，还有大天使般的伟大；因此，他们的辛勤追查并没有掩盖显而易见的推论。追踪这些高度凡人苦难的家谱，最终使我们跻身于众神的无源长子继承权之列。因此，面对所有快乐的、晒干草的太阳，和柔和的铙钹声、圆圆的丰收月亮，我们必须屈服于这一点：众神本身并不永远快乐。人类额头上不可磨灭的、悲伤的胎记，只不过是签名者身上悲伤的印记。

Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more properly, in set way, have been disclosed before. With many other particulars concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some, why it was, that for a certain period, both before and after the sailing of the Pequod, he had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like exclusiveness; and, for that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as it were, among the marble senate of the dead. Captain Peleg’s bruited reason for this thing appeared by no means adequate; though, indeed, as touching all Ahab’s deeper part, every revelation partook more of significant darkness than of explanatory light. But, in the end, it all came out; this one matter did, at least. That direful mishap was at the bottom of his temporary recluseness. And not only this, but to that ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason, possessed the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid circle the above hinted casualty—remaining, as it did, moodily unaccounted for by Ahab—invested itself with terrors, not entirely underived from the land of spirits and of wails. So that, through their zeal for him, they had all conspired, so far as in them lay, to muffle up the knowledge of this thing from others; and hence it was, that not till a considerable interval had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod’s decks.
不知不觉中，一个秘密被泄露了，也许更恰当地，以某种方式，以前已经被泄露过。关于亚哈的许多其他细节，对一些人来说始终是个谜，为什么在裴廓德号航行之前和之后的一段时间内，他以如此大喇嘛般的排他性隐藏自己？在那段时间里，他仿佛在死者的大理石参议院中寻求无言的庇护。法勒船长对这件事的残酷解释似乎并不充分。事实上，每一个启示都触及亚哈内心深处，更多的是显着的黑暗，而不是解释性的光明。但最终，一切都真相大白了；至少这一件事确实如此。那场可怕的灾难是他暂时隐居的根源。不仅如此，还有岸上那个不断缩小、下降的圈子，无论出于何种原因，他们都拥有不受禁止的接近他的特权。对于那个胆怯的圈子来说，上面暗示的伤亡者——事实上，亚哈心情郁闷地下落不明——给自己带来了恐惧，这并非完全源自精神和哀号之地。因此，由于他们对他的热心，他们全都密谋，不让别人知道这件事。因此，直到相当长的一段时间过去后，这件事才在“裴廓德”号的甲板上发生。

But be all this as it may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air, or the vindictive princes and potentates of fire, have to do or not with earthly Ahab, yet, in this present matter of his leg, he took plain practical procedures;—he called the carpenter.
但无论如何，这一切都是如此；让空中看不见的、模棱两可的会议，或者复仇的王子和火的统治者，与尘世的亚哈有关系或没有关系，然而，在目前他的腿的问题上，他采取了简单的实际程序；他打电话给木匠。

And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him without delay set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had thus far been accumulated on the voyage, in order that a careful selection of the stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured. This done, the carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that night; and to provide all the fittings for it, independent of those pertaining to the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship’s forge was ordered to be hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at once to the forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed.
当那位工作人员出现在他面前时，他立即命令他开始制作一条新腿，并指示大副们看他是否配备了迄今为止积累在船上的所有螺柱和颚象牙（抹香鲸）托梁。航程中，为了确保精心挑选最坚固、最清晰的材料。完成后，木匠接到命令，要求当晚完成这条腿。并为其提供所有配件，而与正在使用的不可信配件无关。此外，该船的锻造厂还被命令从货舱内暂时闲置的状态中恢复过来。为了加速这件事，铁匠被命令立即开始锻造可能需要的任何铁制品。

Chapter 107
第107章

The Carpenter.
木匠。

Seat thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn, and take high abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. But from the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary. But most humble though he was, and far from furnishing an example of the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod’s carpenter was no duplicate; hence, he now comes in person on this stage.
苏丹般地坐在土星的卫星之中，独自一人高度专注地思考；他似乎是一个奇迹、一个伟大、一个不幸。但从同一点来看，以人类群体为例，在大多数情况下，他们似乎是一群不必要的复制品，无论是当代的还是世袭的。但尽管他非常谦虚，远未成为崇高、人道抽象的典范；裴阔德号的木匠并非复制品。所以，他现在亲自来到这个舞台上。

Like all sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging to whaling vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent, alike experienced in numerous trades and callings collateral to his own; the carpenter’s pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all those numerous handicrafts which more or less have to do with wood as an auxiliary material. But, besides the application to him of the generic remark above, this carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continually recurring in a large ship, upon a three or four years’ voyage, in uncivilized and far-distant seas. For not to speak of his readiness in ordinary duties:—repairing stove boats, sprung spars, reforming the shape of clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull’s eyes in the deck, or new tree-nails in the side planks, and other miscellaneous matters more directly pertaining to his special business; he was moreover unhesitatingly expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes, both useful and capricious.
与所有海船木匠一样，尤其是捕鲸船上的木匠，在某种程度上，他在许多与他自己相关的行业和职业中都有丰富的经验。木匠的追求是所有众多手工艺品的古老而分支的主干，这些手工艺品或多或少都与木材作为辅助材料有关。但是，除了上面对他的一般性评论的应用之外，这位裴阔德号的木匠在处理大船在不文明和遥远的海洋中不断发生的数千个无名的机械紧急情况时表现得异常高效。 。更不用说他在日常职责中的准备程度了：修理炉船、弹簧桅杆、改造笨拙的桨叶形状、在甲板上插入牛眼、或者在侧板上钉上新的树钉，以及其他杂项更多与其特殊业务直接相关的；此外，他毫不犹豫地精通各种相互冲突的才能，无论是有用的还是反复无常的。

The one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold, was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table furnished with several vices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of wood. At all times except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely lashed athwartships against the rear of the Try-works.
他的副席是他表演各种角色的一个大舞台。一张又粗又重的长桌子，上面摆着几个不同尺寸的虎钳，有铁的，也有木头的。在任何时候，除了鲸鱼在旁边的时候，这张长凳都被牢固地绑在特里工厂的后部。

A belaying pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole: the carpenter claps it into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway files it smaller. A lost land-bird of strange plumage strays on board, and is made a captive: out of clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: the carpenter concocts a soothing lotion. Stubb longed for vermillion stars to be painted upon the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his big vice of wood, the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation. A sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his ears. Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in that, if he would have him draw the tooth.
发现一根保护销太大而无法轻易插入孔中：木匠将其放入他随时准备好的虎钳中，然后立即将其锉小。一只丢失的、羽毛奇特的陆地鸟类在船上迷路，并被俘虏：木匠用剃光干净的露脊鲸骨棒和抹香鲸象牙横梁，为它制作了一个宝塔状的笼子。桨手扭伤了手腕：木匠配制了舒缓乳液。斯塔布渴望他的每只桨的桨叶上都画上朱红色的星星。木匠将每根桨拧入他的大木虎钳中，对称地提供星座。水手喜欢戴鲨鱼骨耳环：木匠钻耳朵。另一个人牙痛：木匠拿出钳子，一只手拍在凳子上，吩咐他坐在那里；另一人则牙痛。但这个可怜的家伙在未完成的手术中无法控制地皱起眉头。木匠转动木虎钳的手柄，示意他用木虎钳拍打下巴，如果他想让他拔牙的话。

Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all points, and alike indifferent and without respect in all. Teeth he accounted bits of ivory; heads he deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he lightly held for capstans. But while now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplished and with such liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this would seem to argue some uncommon vivacity of intelligence. But not precisely so. For nothing was this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal stolidity as it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the surrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general stolidity discernible in the whole visible world; which while pauselessly active in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, and ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yet was this half-horrible stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an all-ramifying heartlessness;—yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an old, crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked now and then with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have served to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle of Noah’s ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been a life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had gathered no moss; but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small outward clingings might have originally pertained to him? He was a stript abstract; an unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born babe; living without premeditated reference to this world or the next. You might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort of unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he had been tutored to it, or by any intermixture of all these, even or uneven; but merely by a kind of deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal process. He was a pure manipulator; his brain, if he had ever had one, must have early oozed along into the muscles of his fingers. He was like one of those unreasoning but still highly useful, MULTUM IN PARVO, Sheffield contrivances, assuming the exterior—though a little swelled—of a common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of various sizes, but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, pens, rulers, nail-filers, countersinkers. So, if his superiors wanted to use the carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part of him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the legs, and there they were.
因此，这个木匠在所有方面都做好了准备，而且同样冷漠无礼。他把牙齿当作象牙的碎片；他认为这些头颅不过是顶级的头颅；他轻视人类本身为绞盘。但是，尽管现在他在如此广阔的领域里取得了如此多的成就，而且他的专业知识也如此活跃；所有这些似乎都证明了智力的某种不寻常的活力。但并不完全如此。没有什么比这个人的某种非个人的冷漠更引人注目的了。我说，非个人化；因为它如此隐匿在周围无限的事物之中，以至于它似乎与整个可见世界中明显可见的普遍冷漠融为一体。它虽然以无数的模式不停地活跃，但仍然永远保持平静，并且忽略你，尽管你为大教堂挖掘地基。然而，他身上的这种半可怕的冷漠，似乎也包含着一种无所不在的冷酷无情；然而，这种冷漠有时却奇怪地被一种古老的、拐杖般的、上古时代的、气喘吁吁的幽默所打破，现在和现在都不是没有的。然后带着某种头发花白的俏皮；例如，在诺亚方舟的长须艏艏楼上，午夜守夜时，人们可以用这种方式来打发时间。难道这个老木匠一生都在流浪，滚来滚去，不但没有长出青苔，反而还没有长出青苔来。但更重要的是，是否已经磨掉了原本属于他的任何微小的外在依恋？他是一个脱衣舞抽象派。不分式积分；像刚出生的婴儿一样不妥协；没有预先考虑这个世界或来世的生活。 你几乎可能会说，他身上这种奇怪的不妥协态度涉及到一种愚昧。因为在他从事的众多行业中，他的工作似乎并不是出于理性或本能，或者仅仅是因为他接受过指导，或者是所有这些因素的混合，无论是均匀的还是不均匀的；但仅仅是通过一种又聋又哑、自发的字面过程。他是一个纯粹的操纵者；他的大脑，如果他曾经有过的话，一定很早就渗入了他手指的肌肉中。他就像谢菲尔德的MULTUM IN PARVO那样不讲道理但仍然非常有用的发明之一，采用了一把普通小刀的外观（尽管有点膨胀）；但不仅包含各种尺寸的刀片，还包含螺丝刀、软木螺丝、镊子、锥子、钢笔、尺子、指甲锉、锪孔钻。所以，如果他的上级想用木匠做螺丝刀，他们所要做的就是打开他的那部分，螺丝很快：或者如果是镊子，抓住他的腿，然后他们就可以了。是。

Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled, open-and-shut carpenter, was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton. If he did not have a common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously did its duty. What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a few drops of hartshorn, there is no telling. But there it was; and there it had abided for now some sixty years or more. And this it was, this same unaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept him a great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an unreasoning wheel, which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, his body was a sentry-box and this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking all the time to keep himself awake.
然而，正如前面所暗示的，这位万能的、开闭式的木匠毕竟不仅仅是一台自动机器。即使他身上没有共同的灵魂，他也有一种微妙的东西，以某种方式异常地履行了自己的职责。那是什么，是水银精华，还是几滴鹿角，无从得知。但它就在那里；它在那里已经存在了大约六十年或更长时间。这就是他身上同样不可解释的、狡猾的生活原则；正是这一点，让他在大部分时间里都在自言自语。但就像一个不讲道理的轮子，它还嗡嗡作响地自言自语；或者更确切地说，他的身体是一个岗哨，而这个自言自语者守卫在那里，一直在说话以保持自己的清醒。

Chapter 108
第108章

Ahab and the Carpenter.
亚哈和木匠。

The Deck—First Night Watch.
甲板——第一次守夜。

(CARPENTER STANDING BEFORE HIS VICE-BENCH, AND BY THE LIGHT OF TWO LANTERNS BUSILY FILING THE IVORY JOIST FOR THE LEG, WHICH JOIST IS FIRMLY FIXED IN THE VICE. SLABS OF IVORY, LEATHER STRAPS, PADS, SCREWS, AND VARIOUS TOOLS OF ALL SORTS LYING ABOUT THE BENCH. FORWARD, THE RED FLAME OF THE FORGE IS SEEN, WHERE THE BLACKSMITH IS AT WORK.)
（木匠站在他的副台前，在两个灯笼的灯光下，忙着锉腿的象牙托梁，托梁牢牢地固定在副台上。象牙板、皮带、垫子、螺钉和各种工具有点躺在长凳上。前方，可以看到铁匠铺的红色火焰，铁匠正在工作。）

Drat the file, and drat the bone! That is hard which should be soft, and that is soft which should be hard. So we go, who file old jaws and shinbones. Let’s try another. Aye, now, this works better (SNEEZES). Halloa, this bone dust is (SNEEZES)—why it’s (SNEEZES)—yes it’s (SNEEZES)—bless my soul, it won’t let me speak! This is what an old fellow gets now for working in dead lumber. Saw a live tree, and you don’t get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don’t get it (SNEEZES). Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let’s have that ferule and buckle-screw; I’ll be ready for them presently. Lucky now (SNEEZES) there’s no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle a little; but a mere shinbone—why it’s easy as making hop-poles; only I should like to put a good finish on. Time, time; if I but only had the time, I could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (SNEEZES) scraped to a lady in a parlor. Those buckskin legs and calves of legs I’ve seen in shop windows wouldn’t compare at all. They soak water, they do; and of course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored (SNEEZES) with washes and lotions, just like live legs. There; before I saw it off, now, I must call his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right; too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that’s the heel; we are in luck; here he comes, or it’s somebody else, that’s certain.
拖动文件，拖动骨头！该硬的该软的，该软的该硬的。所以我们走吧，锉掉旧的下巴和胫骨。我们再尝试一下。是的，现在效果更好了（打喷嚏）。你好，这骨灰是（喷嚏）——为什么是（喷嚏）——是的，它是（喷嚏）——保佑我的灵魂，它不让我说话！这就是一个老家伙现在在枯木上干活所得到的报酬。看到一棵活树，你就不会沾染上灰尘；截掉一根活骨头，你却什么也得不到（打喷嚏）。来吧，来吧，你这个老黑粉，伸出援手，让我们把那个套圈和带扣螺丝拿来；我很快就会为他们做好准备。幸运的是（打喷嚏）没有膝关节可做；这可能有点令人困惑；但仅仅是一根胫骨——为什么它像制作跳杆一样容易？只是我想有一个好的结局。时间，时间；如果我有时间的话，我可以把他变成一条干净的腿，就像以前一样（打喷嚏）刮到客厅里的一位女士身上。我在商店橱窗里看到的那些鹿皮腿和小腿腿根本无法比较。他们泡水，他们这样做；当然，会得风湿病，必须用洗剂和乳液进行治疗（打喷嚏），就像活腿一样。那里;在我送行之前，现在我必须给他的老大亨打电话，看看长度是否合适；我想，如果有的话，太短了。哈！那是脚跟；我们很幸运；他来了，或者是其他人，这是肯定的。

AHAB (ADVANCING)
亚哈（前进）

(DURING THE ENSUING SCENE, THE CARPENTER CONTINUES SNEEZING AT TIMES)
（在接下来的场景中，木匠时不时地继续打喷嚏）

Well, manmaker!
好吧，男人！

Just in time, sir. If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length. Let me measure, sir.
来得正是时候，先生。如果船长愿意的话，我现在就标记长度。先生，让我量一下。

Measured for a leg! good. Well, it’s not the first time. About it! There; keep thy finger on it. This is a cogent vice thou hast here, carpenter; let me feel its grip once. So, so; it does pinch some.
测量了一条腿！好的。嗯，这已经不是第一次了。关于它！那里;把你的手指放在上面。木匠，你在这里有一个令人信服的恶习。让我感受一下它的抓地力。一般般;它确实会夹住一些。

Oh, sir, it will break bones—beware, beware!
哦，先生，它会骨折——小心，小心！

No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this slippery world that can hold, man. What’s Prometheus about there?—the blacksmith, I mean—what’s he about?
不怕;我喜欢良好的握力；我喜欢在这个光滑的世界里感受到一些可以容纳的东西，伙计。普罗米修斯是做什么的？——我是说铁匠——他是做什么的？

He must be forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.
先生，他现在肯定正在锻造带扣螺钉。

Right. It’s a partnership; he supplies the muscle part. He makes a fierce red flame there!
正确的。这是一种伙伴关系；他提供肌肉部分。他在那里发出了猛烈的红色火焰！

Aye, sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work.
好的，先生;他必须有白热化的精神来完成这种精细的工作。

Um-m. So he must. I do deem it now a most meaning thing, that that old Greek, Prometheus, who made men, they say, should have been a blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what’s made in fire must properly belong to fire; and so hell’s probable. How the soot flies! This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of. Carpenter, when he’s through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of steel shoulder-blades; there’s a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.
嗯-米。所以他必须。我现在确实认为这是一件最有意义的事情，人们说，那个创造了人类的古希腊人普罗米修斯应该是一名铁匠，并用火赋予他们生命；但他却是一位铁匠。因为火中所生之物必定属于火；所以地狱是可能的。烟灰怎么飞啊！这一定是希腊人把非洲人变成的剩余物。卡彭特，当他完成那个带扣后，告诉他锻造一对钢肩胛骨；船上有一个小贩，手里拿着一个破碎包。

Sir?
先生？

Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I’ll order a complete man after a desirable pattern. Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to ‘em, to stay in one place; then, arms three feet through the wrist; no heart at all, brass forehead, and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let me see—shall I order eyes to see outwards? No, but put a sky-light on top of his head to illuminate inwards. There, take the order, and away.
抓住;虽然普罗米修斯是关于它的，但我会按照理想的模式订购一个完整的人。 Imprimis，穿着袜子有五十英尺高；然后，以泰晤士河隧道为模型的胸部；然后，双腿扎根，停留在一个地方；然后，双臂穿过手腕三尺；根本没有心脏，黄铜前额，还有大约四分之一英亩的精美大脑；让我看看——我应该命令眼睛向外看吗？不，而是在他的头顶上放一盏天灯，照亮里面。在那里，接受命令，然后离开。

Now, what’s he speaking about, and who’s he speaking to, I should like to know? Shall I keep standing here? (ASIDE).
现在，我想知道他在说什么，他在跟谁说话？我要一直站在这里吗？ （在旁边）。

‘Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here’s one. No, no, no; I must have a lantern.
这不过是用来建造盲穹顶的冷漠建筑；这是一个。不不不;我必须有一盏灯笼。

Ho, ho! That’s it, hey? Here are two, sir; one will serve my turn.
嗬嗬！就是这样，嘿？先生，这里有两个；轮到我了。

What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man? Thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.
你把那个抓贼的人推到我脸上干什么，伙计？推力光比手枪更糟糕。

I thought, sir, that you spoke to carpenter.
先生，我以为你和木匠谈过了。

Carpenter? why that’s—but no;—a very tidy, and, I may say, an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here, carpenter;—or would’st thou rather work in clay?
木匠？为什么那是——但不是；——木匠，你在这里从事的是一项非常整洁的工作，而且，我可以说，这是一种极其绅士的生意；——还是你宁愿在粘土上工作？

Sir?—Clay? clay, sir? That’s mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.
先生？——克莱？粘土，先生？那是泥土；先生，我们把粘土留给挖沟者。

The fellow’s impious! What art thou sneezing about?
这家伙不敬虔！你打喷嚏是为了什么？

Bone is rather dusty, sir.
骨头上满是灰尘，先生。

Take the hint, then; and when thou art dead, never bury thyself under living people’s noses.
那么，接受暗示吧；当你死后，永远不要把自己埋在活人的眼皮子底下。

Sir?—oh! ah!—I guess so;—yes—dear!
先生？——哦！啊！——我想是的；——是的——亲爱的！

Look ye, carpenter, I dare say thou callest thyself a right good workmanlike workman, eh? Well, then, will it speak thoroughly well for thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg thou makest, I shall nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it; that is, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one, I mean. Canst thou not drive that old Adam away?
瞧，木匠，我敢说你称自己为一个真正的好工匠，是吗？好吧，那么，如果当我登上你制作的这条腿时，我仍然会感觉到另一条腿与它处于同一位置，那么这对你的工作来说是完全正确的吗？那就是，木匠，我失去的那条腿；我的意思是，有血有肉的人。你不能把那个老亚当赶走吗？

Truly, sir, I begin to understand somewhat now. Yes, I have heard something curious on that score, sir; how that a dismasted man never entirely loses the feeling of his old spar, but it will be still pricking him at times. May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir?
确实，先生，我现在开始有些明白了。是的，我听说过一些关于这方面的奇怪事情，先生；一个失去桅杆的人永远不会完全失去他的旧桅杆的感觉，但有时它仍然会刺痛他。弱弱的问一下楼主，真的是这样吗？

It is, man. Look, put thy live leg here in the place where mine once was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to the soul. Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to a hair, do I. Is’t a riddle?
是的，伙计。看，把你的活腿放在我曾经放过的地方；所以，现在，对于眼睛来说，这里只有一条明显的腿，但对于灵魂来说，却有两条腿。在那里你感到生命的刺痛；那里，就在那里，就在一根头发的地方，是吗？这不是一个谜语吗？

I should humbly call it a poser, sir.
我应该谦虚地称其为装腔作势，先生。

Hist, then. How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where thou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite? In thy most solitary hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers? Hold, don’t speak! And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah!
那么，历史。你怎么知道某个完整的、活生生的、会思考的东西可能不是无形的、不可渗透的就站在你现在所在的地方？是啊，还怀着怨恨站在那里？那么，在你最孤独的时刻，你不怕窃听吗？稳住，别说话！如果我仍然能感觉到我那条被压伤的腿的刺痛感，尽管它已经消失了那么久；那么，木匠，你为什么不能在没有身体的情况下永远感受地狱的灼热痛苦呢？哈！

Good Lord! Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must calculate over again; I think I didn’t carry a small figure, sir.
主啊！确实，先生，如果真的到了这个地步，我必须重新计算一下；我想我的身材不小，先生。

Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.—How long before the leg is done?
你看，布丁头永远不应该提供前提。——腿完成之前需要多长时间？

Perhaps an hour, sir.
也许一个小时，先生。

Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me (TURNS TO GO). Oh, Life! Here I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this blockhead for a bone to stand on! Cursed be that mortal inter-indebtedness which will not do away with ledgers. I would be free as air; and I’m down in the whole world’s books. I am so rich, I could have given bid for bid with the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman empire (which was the world’s); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I brag with. By heavens! I’ll get a crucible, and into it, and dissolve myself down to one small, compendious vertebra. So.
然后把它搞砸了，然后把它带给我（轮到走）。哦，生命！我在这里，像希腊神一样自豪，但却欠这个笨蛋的一根骨头！那些无法消除账本的致命的相互债务是该受诅咒的。我会像空气一样自由；我在全世界的书里都沉迷其中。我太富有了，我可以在罗马帝国（世界上最大的帝国）的拍卖会上与最富有的禁卫军一起竞标；但我还是欠我吹牛的舌头上的肉。天哪！我会拿一个坩埚，放进去，把自己溶解成一小块简单的椎骨。所以。

CARPENTER (RESUMING HIS WORK).
木匠（继续工作）。

Well, well, well! Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb always says he’s queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word queer; he’s queer, says Stubb; he’s queer—queer, queer; and keeps dinning it into Mr. Starbuck all the time—queer—sir—queer, queer, very queer. And here’s his leg! Yes, now that I think of it, here’s his bedfellow! has a stick of whale’s jaw-bone for a wife! And this is his leg; he’ll stand on this. What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and all three places standing in one hell—how was that? Oh! I don’t wonder he looked so scornful at me! I’m a sort of strange-thoughted sometimes, they say; but that’s only haphazard-like. Then, a short, little old body like me, should never undertake to wade out into deep waters with tall, heron-built captains; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick, and there’s a great cry for life-boats. And here’s the heron’s leg! long and slim, sure enough! Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts a lifetime, and that must be because they use them mercifully, as a tender-hearted old lady uses her roly-poly old coach-horses. But Ahab; oh he’s a hard driver. Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the other for life, and now wears out bone legs by the cord. Halloa, there, you Smut! bear a hand there with those screws, and let’s finish it before the resurrection fellow comes a-calling with his horn for all legs, true or false, as brewery-men go round collecting old beer barrels, to fill ‘em up again. What a leg this is! It looks like a real live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he’ll be standing on this to-morrow; he’ll be taking altitudes on it. Halloa! I almost forgot the little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the latitude. So, so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now!
好啦好啦！斯塔布最了解他，斯塔布总是说他很酷。除了“奇怪”这个词之外，什么也没说；斯塔布说，他很奇怪。他很酷儿——酷儿，酷儿；并一直在星巴克先生面前用餐——奇怪——先生——奇怪，奇怪，非常奇怪。这是他的腿！是的，现在我想起来了，这就是他的同床者！有一根鲸鱼颚骨做老婆！这是他的腿；他会坚持这一点。现在一条腿站在三处，三处都站在一个地狱里，这是怎么回事？哦！我不奇怪他看我的眼神如此轻蔑！他们说，我有时思想很奇怪；但这只是偶然的。那么，像我这样矮小、年老的身体，永远不应该和高大、苍鹭身材的船长一起涉入深水；水很快就会把你从下巴下面冲下去，救生艇的呼喊声也很大。这是苍鹭的腿！又长又瘦，果然！现在，对于大多数人来说，一双腿可以伴随一生，这一定是因为他们仁慈地使用它们，就像一位心地善良的老太太使用她那不倒翁的老马车一样。但是亚哈；哦，他是个勤奋的司机。瞧，一条腿被打死，另一条腿也被打断了一辈子，现在又被绳索磨坏了。你好，你这个臭东西！把手放在那些螺丝上，让我们在复活者用号角召唤所有的腿之前完成它，无论真假，就像啤酒厂工人到处收集旧啤酒桶，重新装满它们一样。这是什么腿啊！它看起来就像是一条真正的活腿，除了核心之外什么也没有。明天他就会站在这个立场上；他会在上面测量高度。喊叫！我几乎忘记了那块椭圆形的小石板，光滑的象牙色，他在那里计算纬度。 一般般;凿子、锉刀和砂纸，现在！

Chapter 109
第109章

Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.
亚哈和星巴克在小屋里。

According to usage they were pumping the ship next morning; and lo! no inconsiderable oil came up with the water; the casks below must have sprung a bad leak. Much concern was shown; and Starbuck went down into the cabin to report this unfavourable affair.*
根据使用情况，他们在第二天早上给船抽水；瞧！水里没有出现微不足道的油；下面的木桶肯定发生了严重泄漏。人们表现出了很多担忧；星巴克走进机舱报告了这件不利的事情。*

*In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it is a regular semiweekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench the casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is removed by the ship’s pumps. Hereby the casks are sought to be kept damply tight; while by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the mariners readily detect any serious leakage in the precious cargo.
*对于船上有大量石油的抹香鲸来说，每半周定期将软管引入船舱，并用海水浸透桶；之后，每隔一段时间，船上的泵就会将其排出。因此，木桶应保持防潮；而通过抽出的水的性质变化，水手们很容易发现贵重货物是否有严重泄漏。

Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and the Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from the China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with a general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him; and another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the Japanese islands—Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white new ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table, and with a long pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, with his back to the gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing his old courses again.
现在，裴阔德河从南边和西边逼近福尔摩沙和巴希群岛，它们之间是从中国海域进入太平洋的热带出海口之一。于是，斯塔巴克找到了亚哈，亚哈面前摆着一张东方群岛的总图。另一个单独的代表日本岛屿漫长的东海岸——尼丰岛、马茨麦岛和四科凯岛。这位奇妙的老人背对着舷梯门，把雪白的新象牙腿靠在桌子的螺丝腿上，手里拿着一把长长的修枝刀，背对着舷梯门，皱着眉头。 ，并再次追踪他的老路线。

‘Who’s there?’ hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round to it. ‘On deck! Begone!’
“谁在那儿？”听到门口有脚步声，但没有转身去看。 ‘在甲板上！走吧！’

‘Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir. We must up Burtons and break out.’
“亚哈船长犯了错误；是我。长官，货舱里的油漏了。我们必须爬上伯顿并突围。

‘Up Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?’
‘爬上伯顿然后逃跑？现在我们已经接近日本了；来这里待一周，修补一包旧篮球？

‘Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving, sir.’
“要么就这样做，先生，要么一天浪费的石油比我们一年生产的石油还要多。”我们千里迢迢跑来两万英里，得到的东西是值得保存的，先生。”

‘So it is, so it is; if we get it.’
‘原来如此，原来如此；如果我们得到它。

‘I was speaking of the oil in the hold, sir.’
“我说的是货舱里的石油，长官。”

‘And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all. Begone! Let it leak! I’m all aleak myself. Aye! leaks in leaks! not only full of leaky casks, but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that’s a far worse plight than the Pequod’s, man. Yet I don’t stop to plug my leak; for who can find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if found, in this life’s howling gale? Starbuck! I’ll not have the Burtons hoisted.’
“我根本没有说过或想到过这一点。走开！让它泄漏吧！我自己也很虚弱。是啊！漏中漏！不仅装满了漏水的木桶，而且这些漏水的木桶都装在一艘漏水的船上；这比裴廓德号的处境还要糟糕得多，伙计。但我并没有停下来堵住我的漏洞；谁能在深载的船体中找到它；或者，即使被发现，又如何希望将其堵住今生的呼啸大风？星巴克！我不会让伯顿家族被吊起。

‘What will the owners say, sir?’
“先生，业主们会怎么说？”

‘Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons. What cares Ahab? Owners, owners? Thou art always prating to me, Starbuck, about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my conscience. But look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye, my conscience is in this ship’s keel.—On deck!’
“让业主们站在楠塔基特岛海滩上，大声喊叫战胜台风。亚哈在乎什么？业主、业主？星巴克，你总是对我喋喋不休地谈论那些吝啬的老板，就好像这些老板就是我的良心一样。但你看，任何事物的唯一真正拥有者是它的指挥官；听着，我的良心在这艘船的龙骨上。——在甲板上！

‘Captain Ahab,’ said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin, with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost seemed not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward manifestation of itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of itself; ‘A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye, and in a happier, Captain Ahab.’
“亚哈船长，”脸涨得通红的大副说道，他进一步走进船舱，带着一种大胆的、奇怪的尊重和谨慎，似乎不仅千方百计地试图避免自己最轻微的外在表现，而且内心也似乎有一半以上的不信任。其本身； “一个比我更好的人很可能会在你身上忽略他很快就会对一个年轻人感到不满的东西；是的，亚哈船长更高兴。”

‘Devils! Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?—On deck!’
‘魔鬼们！那么你还敢批判性地思考我吗？——上甲板！

‘Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat. And I do dare, sir—to be forbearing! Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain Ahab?’
“不，先生，还没有；”我确实恳求。先生，我确实敢于忍耐！亚哈船长，我们难道不会比以前更了解彼此吗？

Ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most South-Sea-men’s cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck, exclaimed: ‘There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one Captain that is lord over the Pequod.—On deck!’
亚哈从架子上（大多数南海员舱内家具的一部分）抓起一支装满子弹的步枪，并将其指向星巴克，惊呼道：“有一位上帝是地球的主宰，一位船长是地球的主宰。”裴阔德——在甲板上！

For an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate, and his fiery cheeks, you would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of the levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose, and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: ‘Thou hast outraged, not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask thee not to beware of Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab; beware of thyself, old man.’
一瞬间，在大副闪烁的眼睛和火热的脸颊上，你几乎会以为他真的收到了水平管的火焰。但是，他控制住了自己的情绪，半平静地站了起来，当他走出船舱时，停顿了一下，说道：“您只是激怒了我，而不是侮辱了我，先生；但为此我请你不要提防星巴克；你只会笑；亚哈却要提防亚哈。小心点，老人。

‘He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most careful bravery that!’ murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared. ‘What’s that he said—Ahab beware of Ahab—there’s something there!’ Then unconsciously using the musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.
“他变得勇敢，但仍然服从；当星巴克消失时，亚哈低声说道。 “他说什么——亚哈当心亚哈——里面有东西！”然后下意识地把火枪当作手杖，铁着眉头在小屋里来回踱步；但不久他额头上的粗辫子就放松了，把枪放回枪架上，然后他走到了甲板上。

‘Thou art but too good a fellow, Starbuck,’ he said lowly to the mate; then raising his voice to the crew: ‘Furl the t’gallant-sails, and close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft; back the main-yard; up Burton, and break out in the main-hold.’
“你真是个好人，斯塔巴克，”他低声对大副说道。然后提高对船员们的声音：“收起大帆，收紧顶帆，前后；回到主院；上升伯顿，并在主舱突围。

It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting Starbuck, Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him; or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient, in the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders were executed; and the Burtons were hoisted.
亚哈出于对星巴克的尊重而做出了这样的举动，猜测到底为什么是徒劳的。这可能是他内心闪现出的诚实。或者仅仅是审慎政策，在这种情况下，专横地禁止他的船上的重要大副表现出最轻微的公开不满，无论这种不满是多么短暂。不管怎样，他的命令还是被执行了。伯顿一家被吊起。

Chapter 110
第110章

Queequeg in His Coffin.
棺材里的魁魁格。

Upon searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the hold were perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, it being calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards, vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood. Tierce after tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks were hard to get about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if you were treading over empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea like an air-freighted demijohn. Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless student with all Aristotle in his head. Well was it that the Typhoons did not visit them then.
经过搜索，发现最后撞入货舱的木桶完好无损，而且泄漏点肯定在更远的地方。因此，天气晴朗时，它们越陷越深，扰乱了地面上巨大屁股的沉睡。从那个漆黑的午夜开始，那些巨大的鼹鼠就被送入了日光之下。他们走得太深了；最下面的冲孔洞是如此古老、腐蚀、杂草丛生，以至于你接下来几乎要寻找一些发霉的基石桶，里面装着诺亚船长的硬币，上面贴着张贴的标语牌的副本，徒劳地警告着痴情的旧世界免受洪水的侵袭。水、面包、牛肉、木棍和铁箍也被一三次地吊了出来，直到最后堆满的甲板都难以移动；空心的船体在脚下回响，仿佛你踩在空荡荡的地下墓穴上，在海里摇摇欲坠，像一艘空运的半约翰船一样。作为一个没有吃晚饭的学生，脑子里全是亚​​里士多德的书，这艘船头重脚轻。还好当时台风没有来拜访他们。

Now, at this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast bosom-friend, Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh to his endless end.
就在这个时候，我可怜的异教徒同伴、我的挚友奎魁格发烧了，这使他濒临无尽的死亡。

Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown; dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the higher you rise the harder you toil. So with poor Queequeg, who, as harpooneer, must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but—as we have elsewhere seen—mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and finally descend into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating all day in that subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the clumsiest casks and see to their stowage. To be short, among whalemen, the harpooneers are the holders, so called.
据说，在捕鲸这个职业中，没有什么闲职。尊严与危险是相辅相成的；在你成为队长之前，你爬得越高，你就越努力。可怜的奎魁格也是如此，作为鱼叉手，他不仅要面对活鲸鱼的所有愤怒，而且——正如我们在其他地方看到的——在波涛汹涌的大海中骑上他的死者；最后潜入阴暗的货舱，在那间地下禁闭室里整天大汗淋漓，坚决地搬运最笨拙的木桶并照顾它们的存放。简而言之，在捕鲸者中，标枪手就是所谓的持有者。

Poor Queequeg! when the ship was about half disembowelled, you should have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down upon him there; where, stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage was crawling about amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard at the bottom of a well. And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to him, poor pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings, he caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after some days’ suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill of the door of death. How he wasted and wasted away in those few long-lingering days, till there seemed but little left of him but his frame and tattooing. But as all else in him thinned, and his cheek-bones grew sharper, his eyes, nevertheless, seemed growing fuller and fuller; they became of a strange softness of lustre; and mildly but deeply looked out at you there from his sickness, a wondrous testimony to that immortal health in him which could not die, or be weakened. And like circles on the water, which, as they grow fainter, expand; so his eyes seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of Eternity. An awe that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of this waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is truly wondrous and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And the drawing near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all with a last revelation, which only an author from the dead could adequately tell. So that—let us say it again—no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and holier thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you saw creeping over the face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his swaying hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his final rest, and the ocean’s invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and higher towards his destined heaven.
可怜的魁魁格！当船差不多被掏空一半时，你应该在舱口处弯下腰，俯视他。那个纹身的野蛮人赤身裸体，只剩下羊毛内裤，在潮湿和粘液中爬行，就像井底的绿斑蜥蜴。可怜的异教徒，不知怎的，这证明了他还有一口井，或者一座冰库；说来奇怪，尽管他出汗很热，但他却感到一阵可怕的寒意，进而变成了发烧。最后，经过几天的痛苦，把他放在吊床上，靠近死亡之门的门槛。在那漫长的几天里，他是如何日渐消瘦，直到只剩下他的身躯和纹身。但随着他身上的一切都变薄了，他的颧骨变得越来越尖，他的眼睛却似乎变得越来越饱满；他的眼睛看起来越来越饱满。它们的光泽变得异常柔和；他从病中温和而深情地望着你，这是他体内不朽的健康的奇妙见证，这种健康不会死亡，也不会被削弱。就像水面上的圆圈一样，当它们变得越来越暗时，它就会扩大；所以他的眼睛看起来圆圆的，就像永恒的圆环。当你坐在这个衰弱的野蛮人旁边，看到他脸上奇怪的东西，就像琐罗亚斯德死时旁观者所看到的那样，一种无法形容的敬畏感会悄悄袭上你的心头。因为人类真正奇妙和可怕的东西还从未被写进文字或书籍中。死亡的临近，同样将一切夷为平地，同样以最后的启示给所有人留下深刻的印象，只有死后的作家才能充分讲述这一点。 因此，让我们再说一遍，没有一个垂死的迦勒底人或希腊人比那些人有更高尚、更神圣的思想，当他静静地躺在摇曳的吊床上时，你可以看到他们神秘的阴影在可怜的魁魁格的脸上爬行，当他静静地躺在摇曳的吊床上时，波涛汹涌的大海似乎在温柔地抚摸着他。摇晃着他进入了最后的安息，大海里看不见的潮水把他升得越来越高，飞向他注定的天堂。

Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself, what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he asked. He called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day was just breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the rich war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that all whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes, and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was not unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead warrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated away to the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars are isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own mild, uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form the white breakers of the milky way. He added, that he shuddered at the thought of being buried in his hammock, according to the usual sea-custom, tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks. No: he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket, all the more congenial to him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes were without a keel; though that involved but uncertain steering, and much lee-way adown the dim ages.
不是船员而是放弃了他；至于奎魁格本人，他对自己的案子的看法也通过他所请求的一个奇怪的帮助而强行表明了出来。天刚破晓的时候，他在灰色的晨更时叫来了一个人，握住他的手，说他在楠塔基特岛时偶然看到了一些深色木头的小独木舟，就像他家乡岛上丰富的战木一样。 ;经过询问，他得知所有在楠塔基特死去的捕鲸人都被安葬在那些同样黑暗的独木舟里，而这样安葬的幻想让他非常高兴。因为这与他自己种族的习俗没有什么不同，他们对死去的战士进行防腐处理后，将他放在独木舟上，然后让他漂流到繁星点点的群岛。因为他们不仅相信星星是岛屿，而且相信在所有可见的地平线之外，他们自己温和的、无大陆的海洋与蓝色的天空交织在一起；就这样形成了银河系的白色碎浪。他补充说，一想到按照通常的海上习俗，被埋在吊床上，他就感到不寒而栗，就像一些可憎的东西一样被扔给吞噬死亡的鲨鱼。不：他想要一艘像楠塔基特岛那样的独木舟，更适合他，因为他是一名捕鲸人，因为这些棺材独木舟就像捕鲸船一样没有龙骨；尽管这涉及但不确定的转向，并且在昏暗的时代有很大的回旋余地。

Now, when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter was at once commanded to do Queequeg’s bidding, whatever it might include. There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal groves of the Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coffin was recommended to be made. No sooner was the carpenter apprised of the order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with all the indifferent promptitude of his character, proceeded into the forecastle and took Queequeg’s measure with great accuracy, regularly chalking Queequeg’s person as he shifted the rule.
现在，当这种奇怪的情况被告知船尾时，木匠立即被命令执行奎魁格的命令，无论它可能包括什么。船上有一些异教的、棺材色的旧木材，这些木材是在很久之前的航行中从拉卡迪群岛的原住民树林中砍伐下来的，建议用这些深色的木板来制作棺材。木匠一接到命令，就拿起了尺子，他立即以他性格中所有的冷漠敏捷，走进艏楼，非常准确地测量了奎魁格的尺寸，在改变尺子时经常用粉笔在魁魁格身上涂粉笔。

‘Ah! poor fellow! he’ll have to die now,’ ejaculated the Long Island sailor.
'啊！可怜的家伙！他现在必须死了，”长岛水手脱口而出。

Going to his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and general reference, now transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches at its extremities. This done, he marshalled the planks and his tools, and to work.
木匠走到他的副台前，为了方便起见和一般参考，现在在上面转移地测量了棺材的精确长度，然后在棺材的末端切了两个凹口，使转移永久化。完成后，他整理好木板和工具，开始工作。

When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted, he lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring whether they were ready for it yet in that direction.
当最后一颗钉子钉完，盖子也刨平并装好后，他轻轻地把棺材扛在肩上，向前走去，询问他们是否已经准备好朝那个方向搬去。

Overhearing the indignant but half-humorous cries with which the people on deck began to drive the coffin away, Queequeg, to every one’s consternation, commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to him, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of all mortals, some dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they will shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be indulged.
听到甲板上的人们开始把棺材赶走时发出的愤怒但半幽默的叫喊声，令所有人惊愕的是，魁魁格命令立即把棺材带到他面前，也没有人否认他；但奎魁格却命令把棺材立即送到他面前。看到在所有凡人中，一些垂死的人是最残暴的；当然，既然他们很快就会永远不再给我们带来麻烦，所以应该纵容这些可怜的家伙。

Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin with an attentive eye. He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along with one of the paddles of his boat. All by his own request, also, biscuits were then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water was placed at the head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in the hold at the foot; and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a pillow, Queequeg now entreated to be lifted into his final bed, that he might make trial of its comforts, if any it had. He lay without moving a few minutes, then told one to go to his bag and bring out his little god, Yojo. Then crossing his arms on his breast with Yojo between, he called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placed over him. The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there lay Queequeg in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view. ‘Rarmai’ (it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and signed to be replaced in his hammock.
奎魁格靠在吊床上，用专注的目光长时间注视着棺材。然后，他叫来了他的鱼叉，从鱼叉中取出了木柄，然后将铁部分与他的船的一个桨一起放入了棺材中。也是按照他自己的要求，饼干被放在里面的周围：一瓶淡水放在头上，一小袋木土放在脚下的货舱里；一块帆布被卷起来当枕头，奎魁格现在恳求把他抬到他最后一张床上，这样他就可以尝试一下它的舒适度，如果有的话。他躺了几分钟，一动不动，然后叫人去他的包里拿出他的小神，Yojo。然后，他将双臂交叉在胸前，将 Yojo 夹在中间，要求将棺材盖（他称之为舱口盖）盖在他身上。头部用皮革铰链翻了过来，奎魁格躺在棺材里，除了他平静的面容外，什么也看不见。 “Rarmai”（就可以了；这很容易），他最后低声说道，并示意要放回吊床上。

But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by all this while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, took him by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.
但在这一切完成之前，一直狡猾地在附近盘旋的皮普走到了他躺着的地方，轻轻地抽泣着，握住了他的手。另一个手里拿着手鼓。

‘Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where go ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where the beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little errand for me? Seek out one Pip, who’s now been missing long: I think he’s in those far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for he must be very sad; for look! he’s left his tambourine behind;—I found it. Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I’ll beat ye your dying march.’
‘可怜的漫游者！难道你们永远不会结束这一切疲惫的流浪吗？你们现在去哪儿？但如果洋流把你带到那些甜蜜的安的列斯群岛，那里的海滩上只有睡莲，你愿意为我做一件小事吗？寻找一个已经失踪很久的皮普：我想他在遥远的安的列斯群岛。如果你们找到了他，就安慰他；因为他一定很伤心；看看！他把他的手鼓落在了后面；——我找到了。挖、挖、挖！现在，魁魁格，去死吧；我会打败你们垂死的进行曲。

‘I have heard,’ murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, ‘that in violent fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues; and that when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in their wholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spoken in their hearing by some lofty scholars. So, to my fond faith, poor Pip, in this strange sweetness of his lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all our heavenly homes. Where learned he that, but there?—Hark! he speaks again: but more wildly now.’
“我听说，”斯塔巴克凝视着天窗低声说道，“在剧烈的发烧中，无知的人们会用古老的语言说话。当探究这个谜团时，总会发现，在他们完全被遗忘的童年时期，那些古老的语言确实是由一些崇高的学者在他们的耳朵里讲过的。因此，我坚信，可怜的皮普，在他疯狂的这种奇怪的甜蜜中，为我们所有的天堂之家带来了天堂的凭证。他从哪里学来的，除了那里？——听！他又说话了：但现在更加疯狂了。

‘Form two and two! Let’s make a General of him! Ho, where’s his harpoon? Lay it across here.—Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza! Oh for a game cock now to sit upon his head and crow! Queequeg dies game!—mind ye that; Queequeg dies game!—take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game! I say; game, game, game! but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all a’shiver;—out upon Pip! Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles he’s a runaway; a coward, a coward, a coward! Tell them he jumped from a whale-boat! I’d never beat my tambourine over base Pip, and hail him General, if he were once more dying here. No, no! shame upon all cowards—shame upon them! Let ‘em go drown like Pip, that jumped from a whale-boat. Shame! shame!’
‘二二二！让我们把他当将军吧！嗬，他的鱼叉呢？把它放在这儿。——挖掘，挖掘，挖掘！哈扎！哦，多么希望一只公鸡现在坐在他的头上打鸣！魁魁格死了！——请注意；奎魁格死了！——你们要好好注意这一点；魁魁格死了游戏！我说;游戏，游戏，游戏！但卑鄙的小皮普，他死时还是个胆小鬼；浑身颤抖地死了；——对皮普来说！听听吧；如果你们找到了皮普，请告诉所有安的列斯群岛的人他是一名逃亡者；胆小鬼，胆小鬼，胆小鬼！告诉他们他是从捕鲸船上跳下来的！如果皮普再次死在这里，我绝不会敲响手鼓，向他致敬，将军。不，不！所有胆小鬼都可耻——他们可耻！让他们像从捕鲸船上跳下来的皮普一样淹死吧。耻辱！耻辱！'

During all this, Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream. Pip was led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock.
在这一切过程中，奎魁格闭着眼睛躺着，就像在做梦一样。皮普被带走了，病人被放回吊床上。

But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; now that his coffin was proved a good fit, Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon there seemed no need of the carpenter’s box: and thereupon, when some expressed their delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, that the cause of his sudden convalescence was this;—at a critical moment, he had just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was leaving undone; and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not die yet, he averred. They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a matter of his own sovereign will and pleasure. He answered, certainly. In a word, it was Queequeg’s conceit, that if a man made up his mind to live, mere sickness could not kill him: nothing but a whale, or a gale, or some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of that sort.
但现在他显然已经做好了死亡的一切准备；既然他的棺材被证明是合适的，奎魁格突然振作起来。很快，木匠的盒子就不再需要了：于是，当有人表示高兴时，他实质上说，他突然康复的原因是这样的；——在关键时刻，他刚刚想起了一件小事上了岸，他却把这件事搁置一边；因此他改变了关于死亡的想法：他断言他还不能死。那么，他们问他，生还是死取决于他自己的主权意志和快乐。他回答说，当然。总而言之，魁魁格的自负是，如果一个人下定决心要活下去，那么仅仅疾病就无法杀死他：除了鲸鱼，或者大风，或者某种暴力的、无法控制的、无知的毁灭者之外，什么也没有。

Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized; that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing, generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day. So, in good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after sitting on the windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a vigorous appetite) he suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out his arms and legs, gave himself a good stretching, yawned a little bit, and then springing into the head of his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon, pronounced himself fit for a fight.
现在，野蛮人和文明人之间存在着显着的区别。一般来说，一个生病的文明人可能需要六个月的时间才能康复，而一个生病的野蛮人几乎一天之内就能恢复一半。于是，我的魁魁格及时地获得了力量；终于，在绞车上慵懒地坐了几天（但吃得胃口很大）后，他突然一跃而起，伸出胳膊和腿，好好地舒展一下身体，打了个哈欠，然后跳了起来。他举起船头，举起鱼叉，宣布自己适合战斗。

With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and emptying into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there. Many spare hours he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of grotesque figures and drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was striving, in his rude way, to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on his body. And this tattooing had been the work of a departed prophet and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had written out on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and a mystical treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg in his own proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in one volume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own live heart beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore destined in the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were inscribed, and so be unsolved to the last. And this thought it must have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, when one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg—‘Oh, devilish tantalization of the gods!’
出于一种疯狂的奇思妙想，他现在用棺材当了一个海底箱。然后把他的帆布袋里的衣服倒进去，把它们放在那里。他花了很多业余时间在盖子上雕刻各种怪诞的人物和图画。看来他正在以粗鲁的方式努力复制他身上扭曲的纹身的一部分。这个纹身是他岛上一位已故的先知和预言家的作品，他通过这些象形文字标记，在自己的身上写下了关于天地的完整理论，以及关于获得真理的艺术的神秘论文。 ;因此，奎魁格本身就是一个有待解开的谜语。一卷精彩的作品；但他自己也无法解读其中的奥秘，尽管他自己的心跳还在继续。因此，这些谜团最终注定会随着刻有它们的活羊皮纸一起腐烂，因此永远无法解开。正是这种想法让亚哈想起了有一天早上，当他转过头去观察可怜的魁魁格时，他发出了疯狂的感叹——“哦，众神的邪恶诱惑！”

Chapter 111
第111章

The Pacific.
太平洋。

When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great South Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dear Pacific with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my youth was answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a thousand leagues of blue.
当我们滑过巴希群岛时，我们终于出现在了伟大的南海上。如果不是因为其他事情，我本可以向我亲爱的太平洋致以无数的谢意，因为现在我年轻时的长期祈求得到了答复；那片宁静的海洋从我身边向东滚滚延伸了一千里的蓝色。

There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath; like those fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St. John. And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures, wide-rolling watery prairies and Potters’ Fields of all four continents, the waves should rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions of mixed shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all that we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing like slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their restlessness.
人们不知道这片大海有多么甜蜜的神秘，它轻轻地、可怕的搅动似乎在诉说着下面隐藏着的灵魂；就像传说中以弗所草皮在被埋葬的福音传教士圣约翰上的起伏一样。与此相适应的是，在四大洲的这些海洋牧场、宽阔的水草草原和陶工田上，海浪不断地升起、落下、潮起潮落。因为这里有数以百万计的混合阴影、淹没的梦想、梦游、遐想；所有我们称之为生命和灵魂的东西，都在做梦，做梦，静止；像熟睡的人一样在床上翻来覆去；不断翻滚的波浪，却是由它们的不安造成的。

To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once beheld, must ever after be the sea of his adoption. It rolls the midmost waters of the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms. The same waves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still gorgeous skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between float milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown Archipelagoes, and impenetrable Japans. Thus this mysterious, divine Pacific zones the world’s whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay to it; seems the tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternal swells, you needs must own the seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.
对于任何沉思的马吉安漫游者来说，这片宁静的太平洋一旦被看到，就一定会成为他所收养的海洋。它翻滚着世界最中部的水域，印度洋和大西洋不过是它的臂膀。同样的海浪冲刷着加州新建城镇的痣，这些痣是昨天由最新人类种下的；同样的海浪冲刷着比亚伯拉罕还古老的亚洲土地褪色但仍然华丽的裙子；而这一切都在漂浮的珊瑚岛、低洼、无尽、未知的群岛和难以穿越的日本之间。因此，这片神秘而神圣的太平洋将世界的大部分地区都包围了。让所有的海岸都成为它的海湾；似乎是地球潮汐跳动的心脏。被那些永恒的波浪所提升，你必须拥有诱人的神，向潘低头。

But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab’s brain, as standing like an iron statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging, with one nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles (in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with the other consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming. Launched at length upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese cruising-ground, the old man’s purpose intensified itself. His firm lips met like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead’s veins swelled like overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through the vaulted hull, ‘Stern all! the White Whale spouts thick blood!’
但是，关于潘的想法几乎没有搅动亚哈的大脑，因为他像一尊铁雕像一样站在他惯常的地方，在后帆索具旁边，用一个鼻孔不假思索地嗅出了来自巴希群岛的甜麝香（温和的恋人一定正在其甜美的树林中行走），并且另一个有意识地呼吸着新发现的大海的咸味；那片海里，可恨的白鲸肯定就在其中游泳。终于在这几乎是最后的水域上发射了，并滑向日本的巡航场地，老人的目的更加强烈了。他坚定的嘴唇像虎钳的嘴唇一样相交；他前额的三角洲血管像不堪重负的小溪一样肿胀。在他睡梦中，他那响亮的叫声响彻拱形的船体：“严正！”白鲸喷出浓浓的血！

Chapter 112
第112章

The Blacksmith.
铁匠。

Availing himself of the mild, summer-cool weather that now reigned in these latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the begrimed, blistered old blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to the hold again, after concluding his contributory work for Ahab’s leg, but still retained it on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being now almost incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen to do some little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their various weapons and boat furniture. Often he would be surrounded by an eager circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads, harpoons, and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement, as he toiled. Nevertheless, this old man’s was a patient hammer wielded by a patient arm. No murmur, no impatience, no petulance did come from him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over still further his chronically broken back, he toiled away, as if toil were life itself, and the heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating of his heart. And so it was.—Most miserable!
利用这些纬度地区现在盛行的温和、夏季凉爽的天气，并为即将到来的特别活跃的追击做准备，珀斯，这个肮脏、起泡的老铁匠，没有再把他的便携式锻造炉移回货舱，在完成了对亚哈腿的贡献工作后，但仍将其保留在甲板上，通过前桅快速绑在环螺栓上；现在几乎不断地受到刽子手、标枪手和弓箭手的召唤，为他们做一些小工作；改变、修理或重新塑造他们的各种武器和船上家具。他常常被一群热切的人包围着，等待着被服务。他拿着船锹、枪头、鱼叉和长矛，在他辛苦劳作时，嫉妒地注视着他的每一个乌黑的动作。尽管如此，这位老人的锤子却是一把耐心的锤子，有耐心的手臂挥舞着。他没有发怨言，没有不耐烦，没有暴躁。沉默、缓慢、庄严；他更加弯着长期折断的脊背，辛苦地走着，仿佛辛苦就是生活，锤子的重击就是他的心的重击。事情就是这样——最悲惨的事！

A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the curiosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted questionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate.
这位老人的走路方式很奇特，步态中有些轻微但痛苦的偏航，在航行的初期就激发了水手们的好奇心。在他们坚持不懈的追问下，他终于屈服了。就这样，现在每个人都知道了他悲惨命运的可耻故事。

Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter’s midnight, on the road running between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly felt the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning, dilapidated barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both feet. Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth act of the grief of his life’s drama.
一个寒冷的冬天的午夜，在两个乡村小镇之间的道路上，铁匠半傻地感到致命的麻木感向他袭来，他迟到了，但并非天真无邪，他躲进了一个倾斜的、破旧的谷仓。问题是，失去了双脚的四肢。从这一启示中，他的一生的戏剧中，最后的四个欢乐的幕幕，以及漫长的、尚未发生灾难性的悲伤的第五幕，终于出现了。

He was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had postponedly encountered that thing in sorrow’s technicals called ruin. He had been an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a house and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife, and three blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerful-looking church, planted in a grove. But one night, under cover of darkness, and further concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid into his happy home, and robbed them all of everything. And darker yet to tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into his family’s heart. It was the Bottle Conjuror! Upon the opening of that fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now, for prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith’s shop was in the basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so that always had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no unhappy nervousness, but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of her young-armed old husband’s hammer; whose reverberations, muffled by passing through the floors and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly, in her nursery; and so, to stout Labor’s iron lullaby, the blacksmith’s infants were rocked to slumber.
他是一位年近六十的老人，在悲伤的技术中推迟了遭遇“毁灭”的事情。他曾是一位著名的卓越工匠，有很多事情要做。拥有房屋和花园；拥抱了一位年轻、女儿般慈爱的妻子和三个快乐、面色红润的孩子；每个星期天都会去一座建在小树林里、看上去很欢乐的教堂。但有一天晚上，在夜色的掩护下，一名绝望的窃贼在最狡猾的伪装下潜入了他幸福的家，抢走了他们所有的一切。更黑暗的是，铁匠本人确实无知地把这个窃贼带进了他家人的心里。这是瓶子魔术师！当那个致命的软木塞打开时，恶魔就飞了出去，毁掉了他的家。现在，出于谨慎、最明智和经济的原因，铁匠铺位于他住所的地下室，但有一个单独的入口。因此，年轻而可爱、健康的妻子总是带着强烈的快乐，毫无不愉快地紧张地聆听着她年轻的、年老的丈夫的锤子的响亮声响。其回响穿过地板和墙壁而被压抑，在她的婴儿室里，不无甜蜜地传到她身上。于是，在工党的铁摇篮曲中，铁匠的婴儿被摇晃入睡。

Oh, woe on woe! Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely? Hadst thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon him, then had the young widow had a delicious grief, and her orphans a truly venerable, legendary sire to dream of in their after years; and all of them a care-killing competency. But Death plucked down some virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil solely hung the responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse than useless old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him easier to harvest.
噢，祸上加祸！哦，死神，你为什么有时不能及时呢？如果你在这位老铁匠彻底破产之前将他带走，那么年轻的寡妇就会有一种美妙的悲伤，她的孤儿们就会成为真正令人尊敬的、传奇般的父亲，让他们在晚年梦寐以求。所有这些都具有护理杀戮能力。但死神却把某个善良的哥哥拉了下来，他每天的劳作只担负着其他家庭的责任，而让这个比无用的老人更糟糕的人站在那里，直到生命的可怕腐烂使他更容易被收割。

Why tell the whole? The blows of the basement hammer every day grew more and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than the last; the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes, glitteringly gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell; the forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived down into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed her thither; and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond in crape; his every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to flaxen curls!
为什么要全说呢？地下室锤子的敲击声每天都在增加。每一天的打击都比上一次更微弱；妻子僵硬地坐在窗前，眼睛里没有泪水，闪闪发光地凝视着孩子们哭泣的脸。风箱落下；熔炉里充满了煤渣；房子被卖了；母亲一头扎进教堂院子里长长的草地里。她的孩子们两次跟着她去那里。那个无家可归、无家可归的老人摇摇晃晃地从一个穿着黑纱的流浪汉身上走下来。他的一切苦难都不受尊重；他的灰色头发对亚麻色的卷发表示蔑视！

Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death is only a launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but the first salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the Wild, the Watery, the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of such men, who still have left in them some interior compunctions against suicide, does the all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable, taking terrors, and wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts of infinite Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them—‘Come hither, broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of intermediate death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Come hither! bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hither! put up THY gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we marry thee!’
对于这样的职业生涯来说，死亡似乎是唯一令人向往的续集。但死亡只是进入陌生的、未经尝试的领域的一次尝试；这只是对广阔的偏远、荒野、水乡、无岸的可能性的第一次致敬；因此，在这些人的渴望死亡的眼睛里，他们仍然对自杀留下了一些内心的愧疚，大海是否诱人地展开了他的整个平原，令人难以想象，令人恐惧，奇妙而新奇。 - 生活冒险；数以千计的美人鱼从无垠的太平洋的中心向他们歌唱：“来这里吧，心碎的人；这是另一种生命，没有中途死亡的罪恶感；这里有超自然的奇迹，无需为之而死。到这里来！把自己埋葬在这样的生活中，对于你们现在同样令人厌恶和厌恶的陆地世界来说，这种生活比死亡更容易被遗忘。到这里来！把你的墓碑也立在墓地里，到这里来，直到我们嫁给你！

Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by fall of eve, the blacksmith’s soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth went a-whaling.
铁匠的灵魂聆听着东方和西方的声音，从日出到傍晚，回应道：是的，我来了！于是珀斯开始捕鲸。

Chapter 113
第113章

The Forge.
熔炉。

With matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, about mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latter placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in the coals, and with the other at his forge’s lungs, when Captain Ahab came along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag. While yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last, Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it upon the anvil—the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights, some of which flew close to Ahab.
大约中午时分，佩斯留着乱蓬蓬的胡须，裹着一条竖立的鲨鱼皮围裙，站在他的熔炉和铁砧之间，铁砧放在一根铁木圆木上，一只手在煤中握着一根梭子鱼头，当亚哈船长手里拿着一个看起来生锈的小皮包时，另一个人在他的锻造厂里。距离熔炉还有一段距离时，喜怒无常的亚哈停了下来。直到最后，珀斯从火中取出铁，开始敲击铁砧——红色的团块发出密集的火花，盘旋飞舞，其中一些飞到亚哈附近。

‘Are these thy Mother Carey’s chickens, Perth? they are always flying in thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;—look here, they burn; but thou—thou liv’st among them without a scorch.’
“珀斯，这些是你凯莉妈妈的鸡吗？他们总是在你身后飞翔；鸟儿也是好兆头，但不是对所有人；——看这里，它们燃烧了；但你——你生活在他们中间，没有被烧焦。

‘Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab,’ answered Perth, resting for a moment on his hammer; ‘I am past scorching; not easily can’st thou scorch a scar.’
“因为我浑身都被烧焦了，亚哈船长，”珀斯回答道，他在锤子上休息了一会儿。 ‘我已不再炙热；你不容易烧伤伤疤。

‘Well, well; no more. Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woeful to me. In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in others that is not mad. Thou should’st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thou not go mad? How can’st thou endure without being mad? Do the heavens yet hate thee, that thou can’st not go mad?—What wert thou making there?’
'好吧;不再。你那低沉的声音听起来太平静了，对我来说太理智了。在我自己的天堂里，我对别人非疯狂的所有痛苦都感到不耐烦。你不应该发疯，铁匠；你说，你为什么不发疯呢？你怎么能忍受而不生气呢？难道老天还恨你，让你不发疯吗？——你在那里做什么？

‘Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in it.’
“正在焊接一个旧的枪头，先生；里面有接缝和凹痕。

‘And can’st thou make it all smooth again, blacksmith, after such hard usage as it had?’
“铁匠，在经历了如此艰苦的使用之后，你还能让它再次变得光滑吗？”

‘I think so, sir.’
“我想是的，先生。”

‘And I suppose thou can’st smoothe almost any seams and dents; never mind how hard the metal, blacksmith?’
“我想你几乎不能抚平任何接缝和凹痕；别介意金属有多硬，铁匠？

‘Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one.’
“是的，先生，我想我可以；所有接缝和凹痕，只有一个。

‘Look ye here, then,’ cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning with both hands on Perth’s shoulders; ‘look ye here—HERE—can ye smoothe out a seam like this, blacksmith,’ sweeping one hand across his ribbed brow; ‘if thou could’st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay my head upon thy anvil, and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes. Answer! Can’st thou smoothe this seam?’
“那么，看这里，”亚哈喊道，热情地向前走去，双手靠在珀斯的肩膀上。 “你看这里——这里——你能把这样的接缝弄平吗，铁匠，”一只手扫过他有肋骨的额头。 “如果你可以的话，铁匠，我很高兴能把头靠在你的铁砧上，感受你最重的锤子在我的两眼之间。回答！你能把这条接缝弄平吗？

‘Oh! that is the one, sir! Said I not all seams and dents but one?’
'哦！就是这个，先生！我说我不是所有的接缝和凹痕，而是一个？

‘Aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for though thou only see’st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the bone of my skull—THAT is all wrinkles! But, away with child’s play; no more gaffs and pikes to-day. Look ye here!’ jingling the leathern bag, as if it were full of gold coins. ‘I, too, want a harpoon made; one that a thousand yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will stick in a whale like his own fin-bone. There’s the stuff,’ flinging the pouch upon the anvil. ‘Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered nail-stubbs of the steel shoes of racing horses.’
‘是的，铁匠，就是这个；是的，伙计，这并不顺利；因为虽然你只在我的肉里看到它，但它已经深入到我的头骨里了——那就是所有的皱纹！但是，远离孩子的游戏；今天不再有鱼叉和长矛了。看这里！”皮包叮当作响，好像里面装满了金币。 “我也想要一把鱼叉；珀斯，一千个恶魔的枷锁都无法挣脱；会像鲸鱼自己的鳍骨一样粘在鲸鱼身上的东西。东西就在这儿，”把袋子扔到铁砧上。 “铁匠，你看，这些是赛马钢蹄上聚集的钉头。”

‘Horse-shoe stubbs, sir? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, then, the best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work.’
“马蹄残根，先生？为什么，亚哈船长，你这里有我们铁匠曾经做过的最好、最顽固的东西。

‘I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the melted bones of murderers. Quick! forge me the harpoon. And forge me first, twelve rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow-line. Quick! I’ll blow the fire.’
“我知道，老人；这些残根会像杀人犯融化的骨头上的胶水一样焊接在一起。快的！为我锻造鱼叉。先为我铸造十二根棍棒；然后将这十二根缠绕、捻合、锤打在一起，就像拖绳的纱线和股线一样。快的！我来吹灭火。

When at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by spiralling them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt. ‘A flaw!’ rejecting the last one. ‘Work that over again, Perth.’
当十二根棍子最终制成后，亚哈亲手将它们一根一根地绕在一根又长又重的铁螺栓上，进行了尝试。 “一个缺陷！”拒绝最后一个。 “珀斯，再做一遍。”

This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when Ahab stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, then, with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to him the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse or some blessing on the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside.
完成后，珀斯正要开始将十二个焊成一体，这时亚哈停下了手，说他要焊自己的铁。然后，他有规律地、气喘吁吁地下摆，敲打着铁砧，珀斯把发光的棒子一根接一根地递给他，坚硬的锻造炉喷发出强烈的笔直火焰，帕西人默默地走过来，向他鞠躬。头朝着火，似乎对辛劳带来了某种诅咒或祝福。但是，当亚哈抬起头时，他却闪到了一边。

‘What’s that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?’ muttered Stubb, looking on from the forecastle. ‘That Parsee smells fire like a fusee; and smells of it himself, like a hot musket’s powder-pan.’
“那群萤火虫躲在那里干什么？”斯塔布在艏楼上看着，嘀咕道。 ‘那个帕西人闻起来就像是圆锥形的火；他自己也闻到了这种味道，就像热步枪的火药盘一样。”

At last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near by, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab’s bent face.
最后，一根完整的棒中的柄接受了最后的加热。当珀斯为了缓和它，把它全部扔进附近的水桶里时，滚烫的蒸汽喷到了亚哈弯曲的脸上。

‘Would’st thou brand me, Perth?’ wincing for a moment with the pain; ‘have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?’
“珀斯，你会给我打上烙印吗？”痛苦地皱起眉头。 “那么我只是在锻造自己的品牌铁吗？”

‘Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this harpoon for the White Whale?’
‘祈求上帝，不要这样；但我还是有些害怕，亚哈船长。这不是白鲸的鱼叉吗？

‘For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them thyself, man. Here are my razors—the best of steel; here, and make the barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea.’
‘为了白色恶魔！但现在来说说倒刺吧；你必须自己做它们，伙计。这是我的剃须刀——最好的钢；在这里，让倒刺像冰海的针雨一样锋利。

For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain not use them.
有那么一会儿，老铁匠盯着剃刀，好像他不愿意使用它们。

‘Take them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup, nor pray till—but here—to work!’
‘伙计，拿走它们吧，我不需要它们；因为我现在既不刮胡子，也不吃饭，也不祈祷，直到——而是在这里——工作！

Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to the shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the blacksmith was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering them, he cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.
最终，钢被制成箭头形状，并由珀斯焊接到柄上，很快就指向了铁的末端。当铁匠准备对倒刺进行最后的加热，然后再进行回火时，他大声要求亚哈把水桶放在附近。

‘No, no—no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper. Ahoy, there! Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo! What say ye, pagans! Will ye give me as much blood as will cover this barb?’ holding it high up. A cluster of dark nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh, and the White Whale’s barbs were then tempered.
“不，不——没有水；我想要真正的死亡脾气。啊嘿，那里！ Tashtego、Queequeg、Daggoo！你们怎么说呢，异教徒！你们愿意给我尽可能多的血来覆盖这个倒钩吗？’把它高高举起。一群人暗暗点头回答：是的。异教徒的肉体上被刺穿了三道，然后白鲸的倒刺就被淬炼了。

‘Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!’ deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the baptismal blood.
“我不以名义上的父神受洗，以名义上的魔鬼来受洗！”当恶铁灼热地吞噬着洗礼的血液时，亚哈疯狂地喊道。

Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one of hickory, with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the socket of the iron. A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms of it taken to the windlass, and stretched to a great tension. Pressing his foot upon it, till the rope hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly bending over it, and seeing no strandings, Ahab exclaimed, ‘Good! and now for the seizings.’
现在，亚哈从下面收集了备用的杆子，并选择了一根山核桃木，树皮仍然覆盖着它，亚哈将末端安装在熨斗的插座上。然后一卷新的拖绳被解开，其中一些英寻被带到卷扬机上，并拉伸到很大的张力。亚哈用脚踩住绳子，直到绳子像竖琴弦一样发出嗡嗡声，然后急切地弯下腰，发现没有绞绳，他喊道：“好极了！”现在是查获的情况。”

At one extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole was then driven hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope was traced half-way along the pole’s length, and firmly secured so, with intertwistings of twine. This done, pole, iron, and rope—like the Three Fates—remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away with the weapon; the sound of his ivory leg, and the sound of the hickory pole, both hollowly ringing along every plank. But ere he entered his cabin, light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most piteous sound was heard. Oh, Pip! thy wretched laugh, thy idle but unresting eye; all thy strange mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of the melancholy ship, and mocked it!
在一端，绳子是未绞合的，单独的展开纱线全部编织并围绕鱼叉的插座编织；然后将杆子用力推入插座中；从下端开始，绳子沿着杆子的长度延伸到一半，并用缠绕的麻线牢固地固定住。完成后，杆子、铁和绳子——就像三个命运一样——仍然密不可分，亚哈心情不好地拿着武器大步走开；他的象牙腿的声音和山核桃木杆的声音，都空洞地沿着每块木板响起。但还没等他走进自己的船舱，就听见一阵轻快、不自然、半开玩笑却又极其可怜的声音。哦，皮普！你那可怜的笑声，你那无所事事却不安分的眼睛；你所有奇怪的装腔作势都不是毫无意义地与这艘忧郁的船的黑色悲剧混在一起，并嘲笑它！

Chapter 114
第114章

The Gilder.
吉尔德.

Penetrating further and further into the heart of the Japanese cruising ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery. Often, in mild, pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on the stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily pulling, or sailing, or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of sixty or seventy minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but small success for their pains.
裴阔德号越来越深入日本巡航海域的中心，很快就在渔业中掀起轩然大波。通常，在温和宜人的天气里，他们在船上持续十二、十五、十八和二十个小时，稳定地拉动、航行或划桨追赶鲸鱼，或者中间休息六十或七十分钟平静地等待着他们的起义；尽管他们的努力收效甚微。

At such times, under an abated sun; afloat all day upon smooth, slow heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and so sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stone cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamy quietude, when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the ocean’s skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; and would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a remorseless fang.
在这样的时刻，在减弱的阳光下；全天在平稳、缓慢的波浪中漂浮；坐在他的船上，轻如桦木独木舟；它们与柔和的波浪融为一体，就像壁炉石上的猫一样，在船舷上发出咕噜声。这是梦幻般宁静的时刻，当看到海洋皮肤的宁静之美和光彩时，人们忘记了它下面喘息的虎心；并且不愿意记住，这只天鹅绒般的爪子却隐藏着一颗无情的尖牙。

These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels a certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that he regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealing only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when the western emigrants’ horses only show their erected ears, while their hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.
每当这个时候，流浪者在捕鲸船里，都会对大海温柔地感受到一种孝顺、自信、陆地般的感觉；他把它视为一片开满鲜花的土地；远方的船只露出桅杆的顶端，似乎奋力前行，不是在汹涌的波涛中，而是在起伏的草原上高高的草丛中：就像西洋移民的马只露出竖起的耳朵，而它们隐藏的身体却广泛地存在着。涉水穿过令人惊叹的翠绿。

The long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these there steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-wearied children lie sleeping in these solitudes, in some glad May-time, when the flowers of the woods are plucked. And all this mixes with your most mystic mood; so that fact and fancy, half-way meeting, interpenetrate, and form one seamless whole.
漫长的原始山谷；温和的蓝色山坡；因为在这些之上，有寂静和嗡嗡声；你几乎可以发誓，在某个愉快的五月时光，当树林里的花朵被采摘的时候，玩腻了的孩子们就在这些孤独的地方睡着了。而这一切都与你最神秘的心情融为一体；使事实与幻想、半路相遇、相互渗透，形成一个天衣无缝的整体。

Nor did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as temporary an effect on Ahab. But if these secret golden keys did seem to open in him his own secret golden treasuries, yet did his breath upon them prove but tarnishing.
这些舒缓的场景，无论多么短暂，对亚哈来说至少也有暂时的影响。但是，如果这些秘密的金钥匙确实似乎打开了他自己的秘密金库，但事实证明，他对它们的呼吸却黯淡无光。

Oh, grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in ye,—though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life,—in ye, men yet may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some few fleeting moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them. Would to God these blessed calms would last. But the mingled, mingling threads of life are woven by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a storm for every calm. There is no steady unretracing progress in this life; we do not advance through fixed gradations, and at the last one pause:—through infancy’s unconscious spell, boyhood’s thoughtless faith, adolescence’ doubt (the common doom), then scepticism, then disbelief, resting at last in manhood’s pondering repose of If. But once gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, and men, and Ifs eternally. Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no more? In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will never weary? Where is the foundling’s father hidden? Our souls are like those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of our paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.
哦，绿草如茵的空地！哦，灵魂里永远春意盎然的无尽风景；在你们身上，尽管长期被尘世生命的极度干旱所烤干，在你们身上，人们仍然可以滚动，就像年轻的马在新的早晨三叶草中一样；在短暂的瞬间，感受生命不朽的清凉露珠在他们身上。但愿上帝保佑这些幸福的平静能够持续下去。但生命的线是由经线和纬线交织而成的：平静被暴风雨穿越，每一次平静都会有暴风雨。今生没有持续不断的进步；我们不会通过固定的等级前进，而在最后一次停顿：——通过婴儿期的无意识咒语，童年期轻率的信仰，青春期的怀疑（共同的厄运），然后是怀疑，然后是怀疑，最后在成年期对“如果”的沉思休息中休息。但一旦走完，我们又绕了一圈；他们是婴儿、男孩和男人，以及永远的如果。最后的港口在哪里，我们从那里不再停泊？在什么全神贯注的以太中航行世界，最疲倦的人也永远不会厌倦？弃儿的父亲藏在哪里？我们的灵魂就像那些孤儿，其未婚母亲在生育过程中死去：我们父亲身份的秘密就在他们的坟墓里，我们必须在那里了解它。

And that same day, too, gazing far down from his boat’s side into that same golden sea, Starbuck lowly murmured:—
就在同一天，斯塔巴克从船舷处远远望着那片金色的大海，低声呢喃道：

‘Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride’s eye!—Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy kidnapping cannibal ways. Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deep down and do believe.’
“可爱深不可测，正如情人在他年轻新娘的眼中看到的那样！——不要告诉我你的牙齿层层鲨鱼，和你绑架食人者的方式。让信仰取代事实；让幻想取代记忆；我内心深处确实相信。

And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales, leaped up in that same golden light:—
斯塔布，像鱼一样，有着闪闪发光的鳞片，在同样的金色光芒中跳了起来：

‘I am Stubb, and Stubb has his history; but here Stubb takes oaths that he has always been jolly!’
“我是斯塔布，斯塔布有他的历史；但斯塔布在这里发誓他一直都很快乐！

Chapter 115
第115章

The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.
裴廓德遇见单身汉。

And jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down before the wind, some few weeks after Ahab’s harpoon had been welded.
亚哈的鱼叉焊接好几周后，随风而来的景象和声音已经足够令人高兴了。

It was a Nantucket ship, the Bachelor, which had just wedged in her last cask of oil, and bolted down her bursting hatches; and now, in glad holiday apparel, was joyously, though somewhat vain-gloriously, sailing round among the widely-separated ships on the ground, previous to pointing her prow for home.
那是一艘楠塔基特岛的船“单身汉”号，刚刚塞进最后一桶油，并用螺栓固定住破裂的舱口。现在，她穿着喜气洋洋的节日服装，虽然有些虚荣，但还是很高兴，在地面上相距甚远的船只之间航行，然后把船头指向家。

The three men at her mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting at their hats; from the stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down; and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the last whale they had slain. Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colours were flying from her rigging, on every side. Sideways lashed in each of her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm; above which, in her top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of the same precious fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp.
桅杆顶上的三个人的帽子上都挂着长长的飘带，上面挂着窄窄的红色彩旗。船尾悬挂着一艘捕鲸船，船底朝下。他们杀死的最后一条鲸鱼的长长的下颌挂在船头斜桅上。各种颜色的信号灯、少尉旗和千斤顶从她的索具上飞向四面八方。她的三件篮子上衣的侧面各绑着两桶精子。在其上方，在她的顶桅横树中，你可以看到同样珍贵液体的细长破碎物；她的主卡车上钉着一盏黄铜灯。

As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most surprising success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without securing a single fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread been given away to make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additional supplemental casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met; and these were stowed along the deck, and in the captain’s and officers’ state-rooms. Even the cabin table itself had been knocked into kindling-wood; and the cabin mess dined off the broad head of an oil-butt, lashed down to the floor for a centrepiece. In the forecastle, the sailors had actually caulked and pitched their chests, and filled them; it was humorously added, that the cook had clapped a head on his largest boiler, and filled it; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and filled it; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the captain’s pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands into, in self-complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction.
后来得知，这位学士取得了令人惊讶的成功。更奇妙的是，在同一片海域巡航时，许多其他船只整整几个月都没有钓到一条鱼。不仅有成桶的牛肉和面包被赠送，以便为更有价值的精子腾出空间，而且还从她遇到的船上交换了额外的补充木桶；这些东西都存放在甲板上、船长和军官的房间里。就连船舱的桌子也被打成了引火木。机舱里的杂乱被一个油桶的宽头吃掉了，油桶被绑在地板上作为中心装饰品。在艏楼里，水手们实际上已经填满了他们的箱子，并把它们装满了。幽默地补充说，厨师在他最大的锅炉上拍了拍头，并给它装满了水。服务员已经插上他的备用咖啡壶并装满了水；标枪手们已经将铁杆的插座顶上并装满了。事实上，除了船长的裤子口袋，以及他保留的用来把手伸进去的口袋之外，所有东西都装满了精液，以自满地证明他完全满意。

As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the barbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle; and drawing still nearer, a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge try-pots, which, covered with the parchment-like POKE or stomach skin of the black fish, gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clenched hands of the crew. On the quarter-deck, the mates and harpooneers were dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped with them from the Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat, firmly secured aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island negroes, with glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the hilarious jig. Meanwhile, others of the ship’s company were tumultuously busy at the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been removed. You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed Bastille, such wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and mortar were being hurled into the sea.
当这艘令人高兴的好运之船驶向喜怒无常的裴阔德号时，她的艏楼里传来了野蛮的巨鼓声。更近了，她看到一群人站在她那巨大的试锅周围，试锅上覆盖着羊皮纸一样的戳子或黑鱼的胃皮，每当她紧握的双手划动时，都会发出一声响亮的咆哮。船员。在尾甲板上，大副和标枪手正在与和他们一起从波利尼西亚群岛私奔的橄榄色女孩跳舞。悬挂在一艘装饰精美的船上，牢固地固定在前桅和主桅之间，三名长岛黑人手持闪闪发光的鲸鱼象牙小提琴弓，正在主持滑稽的吉格舞。与此同时，船上的其他人正在试炼工厂的砌筑工作中忙碌着，巨大的罐子已经从试炼工厂中移走。你几乎会以为他们正在推倒该诅咒的巴士底狱，当现在无用的砖块和灰浆被扔进海里时，他们发出如此疯狂的呼喊。

Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the ship’s elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was full before him, and seemed merely contrived for his own individual diversion.
船长是这一切的主宰者，他笔直地站在船高高的尾甲板上，整个欢乐的戏剧都在他面前展开，似乎只是为了他个人的消遣而设计的。

And Ahab, he too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black, with a stubborn gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other’s wakes—one all jubilations for things passed, the other all forebodings as to things to come—their two captains in themselves impersonated the whole striking contrast of the scene.
亚哈也站在他的尾甲板上，头发蓬乱，皮肤黝黑，带着一种顽固的忧郁。当两艘船互相划过时——一艘为过去的事情而欢呼，另一艘则为即将发生的事情感到不祥——他们的两位船长自己模仿了整个场景的鲜明对比。

‘Come aboard, come aboard!’ cried the gay Bachelor’s commander, lifting a glass and a bottle in the air.
“上船，上船！”快乐的单身汉指挥官喊道，把一个玻璃杯和一个瓶子举到空中。

‘Hast seen the White Whale?’ gritted Ahab in reply.
“看到白鲸了吗？”亚哈咬牙切齿地回答道。

‘No; only heard of him; but don’t believe in him at all,’ said the other good-humoredly. ‘Come aboard!’
'不;只听说过他；但根本不相信他。”另一个人幽默地说。 “上船吧！”

‘Thou art too damned jolly. Sail on. Hast lost any men?’
‘你太他妈的快活了。继续航行。失去了人手吗？

‘Not enough to speak of—two islanders, that’s all;—but come aboard, old hearty, come along. I’ll soon take that black from your brow. Come along, will ye (merry’s the play); a full ship and homeward-bound.’
“还不够说——两个岛民，仅此而已；——但是上船吧，老心儿，一起来吧。我很快就会把你眉毛上的黑色去掉。来吧，你愿意吗（快乐的游戏）；满载而归的船。

‘How wondrous familiar is a fool!’ muttered Ahab; then aloud, ‘Thou art a full ship and homeward bound, thou sayst; well, then, call me an empty ship, and outward-bound. So go thy ways, and I will mine. Forward there! Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!’
“傻瓜真是太熟悉了！”亚哈嘀咕道。然后大声说：“你说，你是一艘满载的船，正在回家的路上；”好吧，那么，就称我为一艘向外航行的空船吧。所以，走你的路，我也走我的路。前进那里！扬帆起航，让她顺风而行！”

And thus, while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other stubbornly fought against it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew of the Pequod looking with grave, lingering glances towards the receding Bachelor; but the Bachelor’s men never heeding their gaze for the lively revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the homewardbound craft, he took from his pocket a small vial of sand, and then looking from the ship to the vial, seemed thereby bringing two remote associations together, for that vial was filled with Nantucket soundings.
于是，当一艘船在微风中愉快地航行时，另一艘船则顽强地与它作斗争。就这样，两艘船分开了。裴廓德号的船员们用严肃而迟疑的目光望着远去的单身汉。当亚哈靠在船尾栏杆上，注视着返航的船时，他从口袋里掏出一小瓶沙子，然后从船上看向那瓶沙子。 ，似乎因此将两个遥远的联想联系在一起，因为那个小瓶装满了楠塔基特的声音。

Chapter 116
第116章

The Dying Whale.
垂死的鲸鱼。

Not seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune’s favourites sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemed it with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor, whales were seen and four were slain; and one of them by Ahab.
在这一生中，当命运的最爱在我们身边航行时，我们虽然都在前面，但也捕捉到了一些汹涌的微风，并快乐地感到我们的装袋帆已满，这种情况并不罕见。裴廓德号的情况也是如此。在遇到同性恋单身汉后的第二天，人们看到了鲸鱼，并杀死了四头鲸鱼。其中一幅是亚哈的作品。

It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of the crimson fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky, sun and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and such plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air, that it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of the Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had gone to sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.
已经是下午了。当所有深红色的战斗结束后，太阳和鲸鱼漂浮在美丽的夕阳大海和天空中，静止地一起死去。然后，如此甜蜜，如此哀伤，如此缠绕在玫瑰色的空气中，似乎远离了马尼拉群岛深绿色的修道院山谷，西班牙的陆地微风，肆意地变成了水手，已经消失了带着这些晚祷赞美诗出海。

Soothed again, but only soothed to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned off from the whale, sat intently watching his final wanings from the now tranquil boat. For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whales dying—the turning sunwards of the head, and so expiring—that strange spectacle, beheld of such a placid evening, somehow to Ahab conveyed a wondrousness unknown before.
亚哈再次平静下来，但只是平静得更深了，他已经离开了鲸鱼，坐在现在平静的船上，专注地看着他最后的衰弱。因为在所有濒临死亡的抹香鲸身上都可以观察到这种奇怪的景象——头部转向太阳，然后就死去了——在如此平静的夜晚看到的这种奇怪的景象，不知何故给亚哈传达了一种前所未有的奇妙。

‘He turns and turns him to it,—how slowly, but how steadfastly, his homage-rendering and invoking brow, with his last dying motions. He too worships fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun!—Oh that these too-favouring eyes should see these too-favouring sights. Look! here, far water-locked; beyond all hum of human weal or woe; in these most candid and impartial seas; where to traditions no rocks furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the billows have still rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine upon the Niger’s unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of faith; but see! no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it heads some other way.
“他转过身来，转过身去——多么缓慢，但多么坚定，他的致敬和召唤的眉毛，以及他最后临死的动作。他也崇拜火；太阳最忠实、最宽广、最雄伟的附庸！——噢，但愿这些过于偏爱的眼睛能够看到这些过于偏爱的景象。看！这里，远被水封；超越人类福祸的一切嗡嗡声；在这些最坦诚、最公正的海洋里；那里的传统没有岩石提供石碑；在漫长的中国岁月里，这里的巨浪依然无声无息地滚滚而过，就像星星照耀着未知的尼日尔河源头；在这里，生命也充满信心地向太阳死去；但看！人死后，死亡就会围绕着尸体旋转，然后走向另一个方向。

‘Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned bones hast builded thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured seas; thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to me in the wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm. Nor has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round again, without a lesson to me.
‘哦，你这半个黑暗的印度人，你用淹死的骨头在这片不绿的海洋中心的某个地方建造了你独立的王座；你是一个异教徒，你的女王，在大肆杀戮的台风中，以及在平静之后的寂静掩埋中，你对我说话也太真实了。你的这条鲸鱼也没有把垂死的头转向太阳，然后又转过来，没有给我一个教训。

‘Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power! Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed jet!—that one strivest, this one jettest all in vain! In vain, oh whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon all-quickening sun, that only calls forth life, but gives it not again. Yet dost thou, darker half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith. All thy unnamable imminglings float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of once living things, exhaled as air, but water now.
‘哦，高耸的箍环和焊接臀部的力量！哦，雄心勃勃的彩虹喷射机！——那一次的努力，这一次的喷射机，一切都是徒劳！噢，鲸鱼，你向那加速运转的太阳求情是徒劳的，太阳只会召唤生命，但不会再赐予生命。然而，你，黑暗的一半，却用一种更骄傲、甚至更黑暗的信仰来震撼我。你所有不可名状的混杂物都漂浮在我的下面；我被曾经有生命的生物的呼吸所支撑，它们呼出的气体是空气，但现在是水。

‘Then hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild fowl finds his only rest. Born of earth, yet suckled by the sea; though hill and valley mothered me, ye billows are my foster-brothers!’
‘那么，冰雹，永远的冰雹，海洋啊，野鸟在它永恒的翻腾中找到了唯一的安息。生于大地，又受大海哺育；虽然山峦和山谷孕育了我，但你们却是我的养兄弟！

Chapter 117
第117章

The Whale Watch.
鲸鱼观察。

The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far to windward; one, less distant, to leeward; one ahead; one astern. These last three were brought alongside ere nightfall; but the windward one could not be reached till morning; and the boat that had killed it lay by its side all night; and that boat was Ahab’s.
那天晚上被杀死的四头鲸鱼死得间隔很大。一、远离上风处；一个，距离较近，位于下风方向；领先一位；后一处。最后三个在夜幕降临前被带到了一起。但直到早上才到达迎风的那艘。杀死它的那条船整夜都躺在它的旁边。那条船是亚哈的。

The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale’s spout-hole; and the lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare upon the black, glossy back, and far out upon the midnight waves, which gently chafed the whale’s broad flank, like soft surf upon a beach.
横杆被直立插入死鲸的喷水孔中。头顶上挂着的灯笼，在它黑色、光滑的背上投下一道闪烁的光芒，投射在远处的午夜海浪上，海浪轻轻地摩擦着鲸鱼宽阔的侧腹，就像海滩上柔软的海浪一样。

Ahab and all his boat’s crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who crouching in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round the whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. A sound like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air.
亚哈和他船上的所有船员似乎都睡着了，除了帕西人。他蹲在船头，坐着观看鲨鱼，它们幽灵般地围着鲸鱼嬉戏，用尾巴敲击浅色的雪松木板。空气中颤抖着，发出一种声音，就像蛾摩拉不可饶恕的鬼魂成群结队地在沥青地上发出的呻吟声。

Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; and hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a flooded world. ‘I have dreamed it again,’ said he.
亚哈从睡梦中惊醒，面对面地看到了帕西人。在夜色的笼罩下，他们似乎是这个被洪水淹没的世界中最后的人了。 “我又梦见了，”他说。

‘Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor coffin can be thine?’
‘灵车的？老头子，我不是说过灵车和棺材都不能是你的吗？

‘And who are hearsed that die on the sea?’
“听说谁死在海上了？”

‘But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two hearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made by mortal hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in America.’
“但是我说过，老人，在你死在这次航行之前，你必须在海上确实看到两辆灵车；第一个不是由凡人之手制造的；最后一个可见的木材必须是在美国种植的。

‘Aye, aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:—a hearse and its plumes floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a sight we shall not soon see.’
'好的好的！帕西人，这是一个奇怪的景象：一辆灵车和它的羽毛随着抬棺人的波浪漂浮在海洋上。哈！我们不会很快看到这样的景象。

‘Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man.’
“不管你信不信，在它被看到之前你是不会死的，老家伙。”

‘And what was that saying about thyself?’
“那你自己怎么说呢？”

‘Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot.’
“虽然到了最后，我还是会走在你前面，你的领航员。”

‘And when thou art so gone before—if that ever befall—then ere I can follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still?—Was it not so? Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot! I have here two pledges that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it.’
“当你走在前面时——如果真的发生了——那么在我能跟上之前，你必须仍然出现在我面前，仍然引导我？——不是这样吗？那么，我相信你们所说的一切吗，哦，我的飞行员！我在这里有两个誓言，我将杀死莫比迪克并幸存下来。

‘Take another pledge, old man,’ said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up like fire-flies in the gloom—‘Hemp only can kill thee.’
“再发誓吧，老人，”帕西人说道，他的眼睛像黑暗中的萤火虫一样闪闪发亮，“只有大麻才能杀死你。”

‘The gallows, ye mean.—I am immortal then, on land and on sea,’ cried Ahab, with a laugh of derision;—‘Immortal on land and on sea!’
“你们是说绞刑架。——那么，无论在陆地上还是在海上，我都是不朽的，”亚哈嘲笑道，“无论在陆地上还是海上，我都是不朽的！”

Both were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and the slumbering crew arose from the boat’s bottom, and ere noon the dead whale was brought to the ship.
两人再次沉默，如同一个人。灰色的黎明来临，沉睡的船员们从船底起身，中午之前，死鲸被带到了船上。

Chapter 118
第118章

The Quadrant.
象限。

The season for the Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab, coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman would ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager mariners quickly run to the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the ship’s prow for the equator. In good time the order came. It was hard upon high noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was about taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his latitude.
线路的季节终于临近了。每天，当亚哈从他的船舱出来时，他的目光投向高空，警惕的舵手会招摇地操纵他的辐条，而热切的水手们会迅速跑到撑杆处，站在那里，所有的眼睛都集中在钉着的达布隆上。迫不及待地等待命令将船头指向赤道。订单来得很及时。正午时分，天气很冷。亚哈坐在他那艘高高的船头，按照惯例每天观察太阳以确定他的纬度。

Now, in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of effulgences. That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing focus of the glassy ocean’s immeasurable burning-glass. The sky looks lacquered; clouds there are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors of God’s throne. Well that Ahab’s quadrant was furnished with coloured glasses, through which to take sight of that solar fire. So, swinging his seated form to the roll of the ship, and with his astrological-looking instrument placed to his eye, he remained in that posture for some moments to catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its precise meridian. Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed, the Parsee was kneeling beneath him on the ship’s deck, and with face thrown up like Ahab’s, was eyeing the same sun with him; only the lids of his eyes half hooded their orbs, and his wild face was subdued to an earthly passionlessness. At length the desired observation was taken; and with his pencil upon his ivory leg, Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at that precise instant. Then falling into a moment’s revery, he again looked up towards the sun and murmured to himself: ‘Thou sea-mark! thou high and mighty Pilot! thou tellest me truly where I AM—but canst thou cast the least hint where I SHALL be? Or canst thou tell where some other thing besides me is this moment living? Where is Moby Dick? This instant thou must be eyeing him. These eyes of mine look into the very eye that is even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that is even now equally beholding the objects on the unknown, thither side of thee, thou sun!’
现在，在那片日本海里，夏日如清新的光辉。日本那一眨不眨的明亮阳光似乎是玻璃海洋中无边无际的灼烧玻璃的炽热焦点。天空看起来像是漆过的；没有云；地平线漂浮；这种赤裸裸的、无法缓解的光辉就像上帝宝座上令人难以忍受的辉煌。嗯，亚哈的象限配有有色玻璃，通过它可以看到太阳的火焰。因此，他随着船的摇晃而摆动自己的坐姿，并将占星仪放在眼前，保持这个姿势一会儿，以捕捉太阳应该获得精确子午线的精确时刻。与此同时，当他全神贯注时，帕西人跪在他身下的甲板上，像亚哈一样仰起脸，与他注视着同一个太阳。只有他的眼睑半遮住了眼珠，他那张狂野的脸被一种世俗的冷漠所征服。最后进行了所需的观察；亚哈把铅笔放在象牙腿上，很快就计算出在那一时刻他的纬度是多少。然后陷入沉思，他再次抬头望向太阳，低声自言自语道：“海痕啊！你这位高高在上的飞行员！你真实地告诉我我在哪里——但你能透露一点我将在哪里的暗示吗？或者你能告诉我除了我之外还有其他什么东西此时此刻还活着吗？莫比迪克在哪里？这一刻你一定在看着他。我的这双眼睛直视着现在注视着他的那双眼睛；是的，用那双眼睛同样注视着未知的物体，太阳，你的那边！

Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, its numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered: ‘Foolish toy! babies’ plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores, and Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; but what after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where thou thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds thee: no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop of water or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence thou insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed be all the things that cast man’s eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live vividness but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth’s horizon are the glances of man’s eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as if God had meant him to gaze on his firmament. Curse thee, thou quadrant!’ dashing it to the deck, ‘no longer will I guide my earthly way by thee; the level ship’s compass, and the level deadreckoning, by log and by line; THESE shall conduct me, and show me my place on the sea. Aye,’ lighting from the boat to the deck, ‘thus I trample on thee, thou paltry thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split and destroy thee!’
然后，他凝视着自己的象限，一个接一个地摆弄着其中无数的神秘装置，他再次沉思，嘟哝道：“愚蠢的玩具！”傲慢的海军上将、准将和船长们的婴儿玩物；全世界都在吹嘘你，吹嘘你的狡猾和力量；但除了告诉那个可怜的、可怜的点，你自己恰好在这个广阔的星球上的什么地方，以及握住你的手之外，你还能做什么：不！一丁点也没有！你无法知道明天中午一滴水或一粒沙会在哪里；然而你却以你的无能侮辱了太阳！科学！诅咒你，你这个徒劳的玩具；诅咒所有那些将人类的眼睛投向天堂的事物，它们的生动生动却灼伤了他，就像这些古老的眼睛现在被你的光芒灼伤一样，太阳啊！人类眼睛的目光本质上与地球的地平线齐平。不是从他的头顶射出的，仿佛上帝想让他凝视他的苍穹。诅咒你，你这个象限！”把它扔到甲板上，“我将不再通过你来引导我的尘世道路；水平船舶罗盘，以及水平航位推算，通过日志和线；这些将引导我，告诉我我在海上的位置。是的，”从船上闪到甲板上，“我就这样践踏你，你这个微不足道的、微弱地指向高处的东西；因此我分裂并毁灭了你！

As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself—these passed over the mute, motionless Parsee’s face. Unobserved he rose and glided away; while, awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered together on the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck, shouted out—‘To the braces! Up helm!—square in!’
当这位疯狂的老人如此说话并用他的活脚和死脚践踏时，一种似乎是为亚哈准备的嘲笑胜利，以及一种似乎为他自己准备的宿命式绝望——这些掠过沉默、一动不动的帕西人的脸。他在无人注意的情况下站起身来，溜走了。与此同时，海员们对指挥官的样子感到敬畏，聚集在艏楼上，直到亚哈在甲板上不安地踱步，大声喊道：“到撑杆！”掌舵！——准备就绪！”

In an instant the yards swung round; and as the ship half-wheeled upon her heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon her long, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one sufficient steed.
刹那间，帆桁旋转起来；当船在她的脚后跟上半转时，她的三根牢固优雅的桅杆直立在她长长的、有肋骨的船体上，看起来就像三匹霍拉蒂骑在一匹足够的骏马上旋转。

Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod’s tumultuous way, and Ahab’s also, as he went lurching along the deck.
斯塔巴克站在骑士船首之间，注视着“裴阔德号”的喧闹，还有亚哈号，他沿着甲板摇摇欲坠。

‘I have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of its tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down, to dumbest dust. Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life of thine, what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes!’
“我坐在浓浓的煤火前，看着它熊熊燃烧，充满了痛苦的火焰生命；我看到它最终衰落，下降，下降，化为最愚蠢的尘埃。海洋老人！你这一切炽热的生命，最终只剩下一小堆灰烬！

‘Aye,’ cried Stubb, ‘but sea-coal ashes—mind ye that, Mr. Starbuck—sea-coal, not your common charcoal. Well, well; I heard Ahab mutter, ‘Here some one thrusts these cards into these old hands of mine; swears that I must play them, and no others.’ And damn me, Ahab, but thou actest right; live in the game, and die in it!’
“是的，”斯塔布喊道，“但是海煤灰——请注意，斯塔巴克先生——海煤，而不是普通的木炭。”好吧;我听见亚哈嘀咕道：‘有人把这些牌塞到我这双老手中；我发誓我一定要玩他们，而不是其他人。’该死的，亚哈，但你表现得对；生于游戏，死于游戏！

Chapter 119
第119章

The Candles.
蜡烛。

Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies the most effulgent but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows tornadoes that never swept tame northern lands. So, too, it is, that in these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all storms, the Typhoon. It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless sky, like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.
最温暖的气候却孕育着最残酷的毒牙：孟加拉虎蹲伏在郁郁葱葱的香料树林中。天空最辉煌，但也笼罩着最致命的雷声：美丽的古巴知道龙卷风从未席卷过温和的北方土地。同样，在这些灿烂的日本海域，水手们也会遇到最可怕的风暴——台风。它有时会从万里无云的天空中爆发出来，就像一颗爆炸的炸弹落在一个昏昏欲睡的小镇上。

Towards evening of that day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and bare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead. When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with the thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that showed the disabled masts fluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of the tempest had left for its after sport.
当天傍晚时分，“裴阔德”号的帆布被撕破了，只剩下裸露的竿子去对抗正前方袭击她的台风。当夜幕降临时，天空和大海因雷声而咆哮、分裂，并因闪电而闪耀，这表明损坏的桅杆到处飘动，带着第一场暴风雨留下的破布。

Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster might have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the boats. But all their pains seemed naught. Though lifted to the very top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab’s) did not escape. A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling ship’s high teetering side, stove in the boat’s bottom at the stern, and left it again, all dripping through like a sieve.
斯塔巴克手握一块裹尸布，站在尾甲板上。每一次闪电从高处掠过，看看那里错综复杂的篮子可能会遭遇什么额外的灾难；斯塔布和弗拉斯克正在指挥人们将船只升得更高、绑得更紧。但他们的所有痛苦似乎都毫无意义。尽管迎风的尾船（亚哈的）被提升到了起重机的最顶端，但它并没有逃脱。波涛汹涌的大海，高高地冲上摇摇晃晃的船舷，在船尾的船底上烧焦，然后又离开它，所有的东西都像筛子一样滴下来。

‘Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck,’ said Stubb, regarding the wreck, ‘but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can’t fight it. You see, Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me, all the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. But never mind; it’s all in fun: so the old song says;’—(SINGS.)
‘干得不好，干得不好！斯塔巴克先生，”斯塔布谈到沉船事件时说道，“但是大海会自行其事。斯塔布就是其中之一，无法与之抗争。你看，斯塔巴克先生，波浪在跳跃之前有一个如此漫长的开始，它绕着世界运行，然后春天到来了！但对我来说，迎接它的所有开始，就在这儿。但是不要紧;这一切都很有趣：所以那首老歌是这样唱的：’——（唱。）

Oh! jolly is the gale,
哦！欢乐是大风，

And a joker is the whale,
小丑就是鲸鱼，

A’ flourishin’ his tail,—
他的尾巴“蓬勃发展”——

Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
如此风趣、活泼、活泼、俏皮、幽默、古怪的小伙子，就是海洋，哦！

The scud all a flyin’,
飞毛腿全都在飞翔，

That’s his flip only foamin’;
那只是他的翻转；

When he stirs in the spicin’,—
当他搅拌香料时——

Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
如此风趣、活泼、活泼、俏皮、幽默、古怪的小伙子，就是海洋，哦！

Thunder splits the ships,
雷霆劈开船只，

But he only smacks his lips,
但他只是咂嘴，

A tastin’ of this flip,—
尝尝这个翻转的味道，——

Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
如此风趣、活泼、活泼、俏皮、幽默、古怪的小伙子，就是海洋，哦！

‘Avast Stubb,’ cried Starbuck, ‘let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy peace.’
“阿瓦斯特·斯塔布，”斯塔巴克喊道，“让台风唱歌，在我们的索具上弹奏竖琴；但如果你是一个勇敢的人，你就会保持沉默。

‘But I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward; and I sing to keep up my spirits. And I tell you what it is, Mr. Starbuck, there’s no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my throat. And when that’s done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a wind-up.’
“但我不是一个勇敢的人；从来没有说过我是一个勇敢的人；我是个胆小鬼；我唱歌来振奋精神。我告诉你那是什么，星巴克先生，在这个世界上没有办法阻止我的歌唱，除了割断我的喉咙。当这一切完成后，我将以十比一的比例为你们唱赞美诗作为结束。

‘Madman! look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own.’
'狂人！如果你没有自己的眼睛，请通过我的眼睛看。

‘What! how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, never mind how foolish?’
'什么！你怎么能比其他人看得更清楚黑夜，不管有多愚蠢？

‘Here!’ cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his hand towards the weather bow, ‘markest thou not that the gale comes from the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? the very course he swung to this day noon? now mark his boat there; where is that stove? In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand—his stand-point is stove, man! Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou must!
“这里！”斯塔巴克喊道，抓住斯塔布的肩膀，把他的手指向气象船头，“你没有注意到大风从东方吹来，正是亚哈奔向莫比迪克的路线吗？他今天中午所采取的航向是什么？现在在那里标记他的船；那个炉子在哪里？在船尾板上，伙计；他习惯站的地方——他的立场是炉子，伙计！如果你必须的话，现在就跳下船去唱歌吧！

‘I don’t half understand ye: what’s in the wind?’
“我不太明白你们：风里有什么？”

‘Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to Nantucket,’ soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb’s question. ‘The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it into a fair wind that will drive us towards home. Yonder, to windward, all is blackness of doom; but to leeward, homeward—I see it lightens up there; but not with the lightning.’
“是的，是的，绕过好望角是到达楠塔基特岛的最近路径。”斯塔巴克突然自言自语，不顾斯塔布的问题。 “现在的大风正猛烈地袭击着我们，我们可以把它变成一股顺风，带我们回家。”那边，迎风处，一切都是厄运的黑暗；但在下风方向，回家方向——我看到那里的光线变亮了；但不是用闪电。”

At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness, following the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.
就在这时，在一片漆黑的间隙中，随着闪光，他身边传来了一个声音；几乎同时，一阵雷鸣从头顶滚过。

‘Who’s there?’
'谁在那儿？'

‘Old Thunder!’ said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his pivot-hole; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed lances of fire.
“老雷！”亚哈一边说，一边沿着舷墙摸索着来到他的枢轴洞。但突然发现他的道路被肘部的火枪照亮了。

Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off the perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some ships carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water. But as this conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may avoid all contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly towing there, it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering not a little with some of the rigging, and more or less impeding the vessel’s way in the water; because of all this, the lower parts of a ship’s lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made in long slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the chains outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.
现在，岸上尖塔上的避雷针旨在将危险的液体带入土壤中；因此，海上一些船只在每根桅杆上都装有类似的杆，旨在将其引导到水中。但由于该导体必须下降到相当大的深度，其末端才能避免与船体发生任何接触；此外，如果一直拖在那里，除了对某些索具造成不少干扰，或多或少地妨碍船舶在水中的航行外，还可能会发生许多事故；正因为如此，船舶避雷针的下部并不总是落入水中。但通常制成细长的链节，以便根据需要更容易被拖到外面的链条中，或扔进海里。

‘The rods! the rods!’ cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux, to light Ahab to his post. ‘Are they overboard? drop them over, fore and aft. Quick!’
‘棒子！棒子！”斯塔巴克向船员们喊道，他们突然被刚刚射出火焰的生动闪电警告要保持警惕，以照亮亚哈的岗位。 ‘他们太过分了吗？将它们扔到船头和船尾。快的！'

‘Avast!’ cried Ahab; ‘let’s have fair play here, though we be the weaker side. Yet I’ll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let them be, sir.’
“阿瓦斯特！”亚哈喊道。 ‘让我们在这里公平竞争，尽管我们是较弱的一方。然而，我将贡献力量，在喜马拉雅山脉和安第斯山脉上竖起木棒，以便全世界的安全；但要享受特权！让他们去吧，先生。

‘Look aloft!’ cried Starbuck. ‘The corpusants! the corpusants!
“往上看！”斯塔巴克喊道。 ‘这些公司！那些公司！

All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each tri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.
所有的帆桁臂都燃着苍白的火焰。三根高大的桅杆分别用三道锥形的白色火焰触碰每根三尖避雷针的末端，每一根都在硫磺的空气中静静地燃烧，就像祭坛前的三根巨大的蜡锥。

‘Blast the boat! let it go!’ cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. ‘Blast it!’—but slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and immediately shifting his tone he cried—‘The corpusants have mercy on us all!’
‘炸掉那条船！放开它！”斯塔布就在这时喊道，此时他自己的小船正翻滚着，汹涌的海水在他自己的小船下面翻腾，以至于当他经过一根鞭子时，船的船舷猛烈地卡住了他的手。 “该死！”——但是他向后滑倒在甲板上，他抬起的眼睛看到了火焰；他立即改变语气喊道：“请可怜我们所有人吧！”

To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething sea; but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when God’s burning finger has been laid on the ship; when His ‘Mene, Mene, Tekel Upharsin’ has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.
对于水手来说，誓言是家喻户晓的话语；他们会在风平浪静时发誓，在暴风雨中发誓；当大多数人摇摇欲坠地驶入沸腾的大海时，他们会从中帆帆桁臂发出诅咒。但在我所有的航行中，当上帝灼热的手指放在船上时，我很少听到共同的誓言。当他的“Mene，Mene，Tekel Upharsin”被编织到裹尸布和绳索中时。

While this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from the enchanted crew; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle, all their eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far away constellation of stars. Relieved against the ghostly light, the gigantic jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, and seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come. The parted mouth of Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely gleamed as if they too had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the preternatural light, Queequeg’s tattooing burned like Satanic blue flames on his body.
当这股苍白在高空燃烧时，魔法船员们几乎没有听到什么话。他们密密麻麻地站在艏楼上，所有的眼睛都闪烁着苍白的磷光，就像遥远的星座。面对幽灵般的光芒，巨大的黑色黑人达古显得如释重负，他的身形是他真实身高的三倍，看起来就像是雷霆发出的乌云。塔什特戈张开的嘴露出了他鲨鱼般洁白的牙齿，这些牙齿奇怪地闪闪发光，好像它们也被尸体咬过一样。当奎魁格的纹身被超自然的光芒照亮时，他身上的纹身就像撒旦的蓝色火焰一样燃烧。

The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more the Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall. A moment or two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one. It was Stubb. ‘What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the same in the song.’
最后，随着高处的苍白，整个画面都黯淡了。裴廓德号和她甲板上的每个人都再次被一层薄纱包裹着。一两分钟过去了，斯塔巴克向前走去，推到了一个人身上。是斯塔布。 “你现在想什么，伙计；我听到了你的呼喊；歌曲中的情况不一样。

‘No, no, it wasn’t; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I hope they will, still. But do they only have mercy on long faces?—have they no bowels for a laugh? And look ye, Mr. Starbuck—but it’s too dark to look. Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign of good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be chock a’ block with sperm-oil, d’ye see; and so, all that sperm will work up into the masts, like sap in a tree. Yes, our three masts will yet be as three spermaceti candles—that’s the good promise we saw.’
“不，不，不是这样；”我说过，抗议者怜悯我们所有人；我仍然希望他们会这么做。但他们只对长脸有怜悯吗？——他们没有笑的勇气吗？星巴克先生，你看，但是天太黑了，看不清。那么，请听我说：我把我们看到的桅杆头火焰视为好运的标志；因为那些桅杆扎根在一个船舱里，船舱里将被鲸油填满，你瞧；因此，所有的精子都会进入桅杆，就像树上的汁液一样。是的，我们的三根桅杆仍将像三根鲸蜡蜡烛一样——这就是我们看到的美好希望。

At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb’s face slowly beginning to glimmer into sight. Glancing upwards, he cried: ‘See! see!’ and once more the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled supernaturalness in their pallor.
就在这时，斯塔巴克看到斯塔布的脸慢慢开始闪烁。他抬头一看，喊道：“看哪！瞧！”人们再一次看到那高高的、逐渐变细的火焰，它们苍白的颜色似乎更加超自然。

‘The corpusants have mercy on us all,’ cried Stubb, again.
“这些家伙怜悯我们所有人，”斯塔布再次喊道。

At the base of the mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame, the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab’s front, but with his head bowed away from him; while near by, from the arched and overhanging rigging, where they had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of the seamen, arrested by the glare, now cohered together, and hung pendulous, like a knot of numbed wasps from a drooping, orchard twig. In various enchanted attitudes, like the standing, or stepping, or running skeletons in Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the deck; but all their eyes upcast.
在主桅杆的底部，在达布隆和火焰的下方，帕西人跪在亚哈的前面，但他的头低着，远离他。在附近，他们刚刚在拱形悬垂的索具上固定一根桅杆，一些海员被强光吸引住了，现在聚集在一起，悬垂着，就像一群麻木的黄蜂从下垂的地方，果园树枝。其他人以各种迷人的姿态，就像赫库兰尼姆的站立、行走或奔跑的骷髅一样，仍然扎根于甲板上；但他们的眼睛都向上看。

‘Aye, aye, men!’ cried Ahab. ‘Look up at it; mark it well; the white flame but lights the way to the White Whale! Hand me those mainmast links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against it; blood against fire! So.’
“是啊，是啊，伙计们！”亚哈喊道。 ‘抬头看它；做好标记；白色的火焰，却照亮了通往白鲸的道路！把那里的主桅链接交给我；我很想感受这脉搏，并让我的脉搏对抗它；血与火！所以。'

Then turning—the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot upon the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.
然后转身——最后一根链子紧紧地握在他的左手上，他把脚踩在了帕西人身上。他双眼直视上方，右臂高举，笔直地站在那高高的三尖火焰面前。

‘Oh! thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian once did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that to this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now know that thy right worship is defiance. To neither love nor reverence wilt thou be kind; and e’en for hate thou canst but kill; and all are killed. No fearless fool now fronts thee. I own thy speechless, placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In the midst of the personified impersonal, a personality stands here. Though but a point at best; whencesoe’er I came; wheresoe’er I go; yet while I earthly live, the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights. But war is pain, and hate is woe. Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power; and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there’s that in here that still remains indifferent. Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy fire thou madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to thee.’
'哦！你是清澈的火焰之灵，我作为波斯人曾经在这些海上崇拜过你，直到在圣礼中被你烧伤，直到现在我还带着伤疤；我现在认识你了，你这个清澈的灵魂，我现在知道你正确的崇拜就是反抗。你既不会仁慈，也不会仁慈；即使出于仇恨，你也只能杀人；所有人都被杀了。现在你面前没有无所畏惧的傻瓜了。我拥有你无言、无处的权力；但直到我地震的最后一刻，生活仍会质疑它对我的无条件、不完整的掌控。在拟人化的非人格化之中，有一个人格矗立于此。虽然充其量只是一点；我从哪里来；我去哪儿；然而，当我生活在尘世时，女王的人格就生活在我的内心，并感受到她的皇室权利。但战争是痛苦，仇恨是祸患。以你最低级的爱来吧，我会跪下来亲吻你；但在你的最高境界时，你只是以超自然的力量而来；尽管你在满载货物的世界中派遣了海军，但这里仍然存在冷漠。哦，你这清澈的灵魂，你用你的火焰创造了我，就像一个真正的火之子，我将它呼吸回给你。

[SUDDEN, REPEATED FLASHES OF LIGHTNING; THE NINE FLAMES LEAP LENGTHWISE TO THRICE THEIR PREVIOUS HEIGHT; AHAB, WITH THE REST, CLOSES HIS EYES, HIS RIGHT HAND PRESSED HARD UPON THEM.]
[突然、反复的闪电；九个火焰纵向跳跃至先前高度的三倍；亚哈和其他人闭上眼睛，右手用力按在他们身上。]

‘I own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so? Nor was it wrung from me; nor do I now drop these links. Thou canst blind; but I can then grope. Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes. Take the homage of these poor eyes, and shutter-hands. I would not take it. The lightning flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; my whole beaten brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning ground. Oh, oh! Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee. Light though thou be, thou leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light, leaping out of thee! The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not? There burn the flames! Oh, thou magnanimous! now I do glory in my genealogy. But thou art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not. Oh, cruel! what hast thou done with her? There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater. Thou knowest not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten; certainly knowest not thy beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun. I know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent. There is some unsuffusing thing beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom all thy eternity is but time, all thy creativeness mechanical. Through thee, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimly see it. Oh, thou foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou too hast thy incommunicable riddle, thy unparticipated grief. Here again with haughty agony, I read my sire. Leap! leap up, and lick the sky! I leap with thee; I burn with thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly I worship thee!’
‘我拥有你无言、无处的力量；我说不是这样吗？这也不是从我这里榨取的；我现在也不会删除这些链接。你可以盲目；但我可以摸索。你可以消费；但我可以化为灰烬。向这些可怜的眼睛和快门之手致敬。我不会接受。闪电穿过我的头骨；我的眼球又痛又痛；我整个被打垮的大脑就像被斩首一样，在令人惊叹的地面上滚动。哦，哦！虽然蒙着眼睛，我还是会和你说话。尽管你是光明，但你却从黑暗中跃出；但我是从光明中跳出的黑暗，从你中跳出的！标枪停止了；睁;看到还是没看到？那里燃烧着火焰！哦，你大度！现在我在我的家谱中感到荣耀。但你只是我火热的父亲；我亲爱的妈妈，我不知道。哦，残酷！你对她做了什么？这就是我的困惑；但你的更伟大。你不知道自己是怎么来的，因此称自己为非受生者；当然不知道你的开始，因此称你自己为未开始。我知道我的一切，而你却不知道你自己，噢，你无所不能。在你之外还有一些无法满足的东西，你清澈的精神，对你来说，你所有的永恒都只是时间，你所有的创造力都是机械的。透过你，你燃烧的自我，我焦灼的眼睛确实隐约看到了它。哦，你这弃儿之火，你这远古的隐士，你也有你无法言说的谜语，你无法参与的悲伤。我再次带着傲慢的痛苦读到了我的父亲。飞跃！跳起来，舔天空！我与你一起跳跃；我与你一起燃烧；很乐意与你焊接；我绝对崇拜你！

‘The boat! the boat!’ cried Starbuck, ‘look at thy boat, old man!’
'小舟！船！”斯塔巴克喊道，“看看你的船，老家伙！”

Ahab’s harpoon, the one forged at Perth’s fire, remained firmly lashed in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat’s bow; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather sheath to drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a levelled flame of pale, forked fire. As the silent harpoon burned there like a serpent’s tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm—‘God, God is against thee, old man; forbear! ‘tis an ill voyage! ill begun, ill continued; let me square the yards, while we may, old man, and make a fair wind of it homewards, to go on a better voyage than this.’
亚哈的鱼叉是在珀斯的火中锻造的，仍然牢牢地绑在其显眼的胯部，因此它伸出了捕鲸船的船头之外。但海水淹没了它的底部，导致松散的皮套脱落。从锋利的钢倒刺中，现在冒出一道苍白的、叉状的火焰。当无声的鱼叉像蛇的舌头一样在那里燃烧时，斯塔巴克抓住了亚哈的手臂——“上帝，上帝反对你，老兄；你要知道，上帝反对你。”隐忍！这是一次糟糕的航行！不好的开始，不好的继续；让我摆平场地，老伙计，我们可以顺风回家，继续比这更好的航行。

Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken crew instantly ran to the braces—though not a sail was left aloft. For the moment all the aghast mate’s thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half mutinous cry. But dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and snatching the burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them; swearing to transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope’s end. Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:—
无意中听到斯塔巴克的声音，惊慌失措的船员们立即跑向支柱——尽管高处没有留下任何帆。此刻，这位惊愕的同伴的所有想法似乎都是他们自己的。他们发出了半叛逆的叫声。但亚哈把嘎嘎作响的闪电击中甲板，抓起燃烧的鱼叉，像火炬一样在他们中间挥舞。发誓要用它来固定第一个松开绳子末端的水手。众人被他的样子吓呆了，更被他手中的火焰飞镖吓得退缩了，他们惊慌地向后退去，亚哈再次开口说道：

‘All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and heart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that ye may know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out the last fear!’ And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the flame.
“你所有猎杀白鲸的誓言都和我的一样具有约束力；心、灵魂、身体、肺和生命，老亚哈都受到了束缚。以便你们知道这颗心以什么音调跳动；看这里；这样我就可以吹灭最后的恐惧！”他一口气吹灭了火焰。

As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it so much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts; so at those last words of Ahab’s many of the mariners did run from him in a terror of dismay.
就像在席卷平原的飓风中一样，人们飞过一棵孤独的巨大榆树附近，这棵树的高度和力量却使它变得更加不安全，因为它更容易成为雷电的标记；因此，听到亚哈的最后一句话，许多水手都惊慌失措地逃离了他。

Chapter 120
第120章

The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.
第一个守夜人即将结束的甲板。

AHAB STANDING BY THE HELM. STARBUCK APPROACHING HIM.
亚哈掌舵。星巴克走近他。

We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working loose and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?’
长官，我们必须派下主中帆帆桁。带子松动，背风升降机半绞。我要敲它吗，先生？

‘Strike nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I’d sway them up now.’
‘什么也不打；鞭打它。如果我有天帆杆，我现在就会把它们摇起来。”

‘Sir!—in God’s name!—sir?’
“先生！——以上帝的名义！——先生？”

‘Well.’
'出色地。'

‘The anchors are working, sir. Shall I get them inboard?’
“锚正在工作，长官。我要把他们带上船吗？

‘Strike nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything. The wind rises, but it has not got up to my table-lands yet. Quick, and see to it.—By masts and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some coasting smack. Send down my main-top-sail yard! Ho, gluepots! Loftiest trucks were made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine now sails amid the cloud-scud. Shall I strike that? Oh, none but cowards send down their brain-trucks in tempest time. What a hooroosh aloft there! I would e’en take it for sublime, did I not know that the colic is a noisy malady. Oh, take medicine, take medicine!’
‘什么也不敲打，什么也不搅动，但要鞭打一切。风起了，但还没有到我的台地。快点，注意它。——靠桅杆和龙骨！他把我当成某个滑行船的驼背船长。派我的主帆帆桁下来！嗬，胶锅！最高的卡车是为最狂野的风而生的，而我的这辆大脑卡车现在在云中航行。我要打击那个吗？哦，只有胆小鬼才会在暴风雨时期派出他们的大脑卡车。高处多么热闹啊！如果我不知道绞痛是一种吵闹的疾病，我会认为这是崇高的。噢，吃药，吃药！”

Chapter 121
第121章

Midnight.—The Forecastle Bulwarks.
午夜。——艏楼舷墙。

STUBB AND FLASK MOUNTED ON THEM, AND PASSING ADDITIONAL LASHINGS OVER THE ANCHORS THERE HANGING.
安装在其上的短截和烧瓶，并在悬挂的锚上传递额外的绳索。

No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please, but you will never pound into me what you were just now saying. And how long ago is it since you said the very contrary? Didn’t you once say that whatever ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its insurance policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft and boxes of lucifers forward? Stop, now; didn’t you say so?’
不，斯塔布；你可以随心所欲地敲那个结，但你永远不会把你刚才所说的话敲到我身上。自从你说过相反的话以来已经有多久了？你不是曾经说过，无论亚哈乘坐什么船，那艘船都应该在保险单上额外支付一些费用，就像船尾装着火药桶，船头装着一箱箱路西法一样？停下来，现在；你不是这么说的吗？

‘Well, suppose I did? What then? I’ve part changed my flesh since that time, why not my mind? Besides, supposing we ARE loaded with powder barrels aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers get afire in this drenching spray here? Why, my little man, you have pretty red hair, but you couldn’t get afire now. Shake yourself; you’re Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coat collar. Don’t you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine Insurance companies have extra guarantees? Here are hydrants, Flask. But hark, again, and I’ll answer ye the other thing. First take your leg off from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope; now listen. What’s the mighty difference between holding a mast’s lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn’t got any lightning-rod at all in a storm? Don’t you see, you timber-head, that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck? What are you talking about, then? Not one ship in a hundred carries rods, and Ahab,—aye, man, and all of us,—were in no more danger then, in my poor opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand ships now sailing the seas. Why, you King-Post, you, I suppose you would have every man in the world go about with a small lightning-rod running up the corner of his hat, like a militia officer’s skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash. Why don’t ye be sensible, Flask? it’s easy to be sensible; why don’t ye, then? any man with half an eye can be sensible.’
‘好吧，假设我做到了？然后怎样呢？从那时起我的肉体已经部分改变了，为什么我的思想没有改变呢？此外，假设我们船尾装有火药桶，船头装有路西法；天哪，路西法怎么会在这湿淋淋的喷雾中着火呢？哎呀，我的小家伙，你有一头漂亮的红头发，但你现在不能着火了。摇动自己；你是水瓶座，或者说是水瓶座，Flask；可能会装满你衣领处的水罐。那么，您难道没有看到，对于这些额外的风险，海上保险公司有额外的保证吗？这是消防栓，烧瓶。但是请再听一遍，我会回答你们另一件事。不过，首先要把你的腿从这里的锚冠上拿下来，这样我就可以把绳子传过去；现在听。在暴风雨中拿着桅杆的避雷针和在暴风雨中站在根本没有避雷针的桅杆旁边有什么巨大的区别？难道你没看到吗，你这个木头人，除非桅杆先被击中，否则不会对持竿者造成任何伤害？那你在说什么？一百艘船中没有一艘携带钓竿，而亚哈——是的，伙计，还有我们所有人——当时，在我看来，并不比现在在海上航行的一万艘船上的所有船员更危险。嘿，你这个国王邮报，你，我想你会让世界上每个人都带着一根小避雷针走来走去，就像民兵军官的串羽毛一样，在帽子的一角上挂着一根小避雷针，然后像腰带一样拖在后面。为什么你不理智一点，弗拉斯克？变得理智很容易；那你为什么不呢？任何有半只眼睛的人都是明智的。”

‘I don’t know that, Stubb. You sometimes find it rather hard.’
“我不知道，斯塔布。有时你会发现这很难。

‘Yes, when a fellow’s soaked through, it’s hard to be sensible, that’s a fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch the turn there, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors now as if they were never going to be used again. Tying these two anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man’s hands behind him. And what big generous hands they are, to be sure. These are your iron fists, hey? What a hold they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether the world is anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable, though. There, hammer that knot down, and we’ve done. So; next to touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory. I say, just wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye. They laugh at long-togs so, Flask; but seems to me, a Long tailed coat ought always to be worn in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way, serve to carry off the water, d’ye see. Same with cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down a beaver; so. Halloa! whew! there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord, Lord, that the winds that come from heaven should be so unmannerly! This is a nasty night, lad.’
‘是的，当一个人浑身湿透的时候，就很难理智了，这是事实。我快被这种喷雾淋湿了。没关系;赶上那里的转弯，然后通过它。在我看来，我们现在正在绑住这些锚，就好像它们永远不会再被使用一样。 Flask，把这两个锚绑在这里，就像把一个人的双手绑在身后一样。当然，他们的手是多么慷慨啊。这就是你的铁拳，嘿？他们也有多么大的把握啊！我想知道，弗拉斯克，世界是否固定在任何地方？如果她是的话，她会用一根不常见的长缆绳来摆动。在那里，把结敲下来，我们就完成了。所以;除了接触陆地之外，甲板上的照明是最令人满意的。我说，把我的夹克裙子拧干吧，好吗？谢谢你们。他们嘲笑长袍，弗拉斯克；但在我看来，在海上的所有暴风雨中都应该穿着长尾外套。尾巴朝那个方向逐渐变细，用来带走水，你瞧。与三角帽相同；雄鸡形成山墙端的檐槽，烧瓶。我不再需要猴子夹克和防水布；我必须骑上燕尾，赶走海狸；所以。喊叫！哇！我的防水布掉到了船外；主啊主啊，从天上吹来的风竟然如此无礼！这是一个令人讨厌的夜晚，小伙子。”

Chapter 122
第122章

Midnight Aloft.—Thunder and Lightning.
午夜高空——雷声和闪电。

THE MAIN-TOP-SAIL YARD.—TASHTEGO PASSING NEW LASHINGS AROUND IT.
主要的上帆船坞。——TASHTEGO 在其周围传递新的绑带。

‘Um, um, um. Stop that thunder! Plenty too much thunder up here. What’s the use of thunder? Um, um, um. We don’t want thunder; we want rum; give us a glass of rum. Um, um, um!’
‘嗯，嗯，嗯。别再打雷了！这里雷声太大了。雷霆有什么用？嗯，嗯，嗯。我们不想要雷声；我们想要朗姆酒；给我们一杯朗姆酒。嗯，嗯，嗯！’

Chapter 123
第123章

The Musket.
火枪。

During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the Pequod’s jaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions, even though preventer tackles had been attached to it—for they were slack—because some play to the tiller was indispensable.
在台风号最猛烈的冲击期间，裴阔德号颚骨舵柄处的人曾多次被其痉挛性的运动摇摇晃晃地抛到甲板上，尽管上面安装了防护滑车——因为它们是松弛的——因为有些人会玩耍。对于耕耘者来说是必不可少的。

In a severe gale like this, while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the compasses, at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with the Pequod’s; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is a sight that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwonted emotion.
在这样的大风中，虽然船不过是被风吹起的毽子，但罗盘上的指针时不时地一圈一圈地转来转去，却是屡见不鲜。裴廓德号就是这样。几乎每次震动时，舵手都会注意到它们在卡片上旋转的速度。几乎任何人看到这一景象都会产生某种不寻常的情感。

Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb—one engaged forward and the other aft—the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails were cut adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like the feathers of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when that storm-tossed bird is on the wing.
午夜过后几个小时，台风减弱了很多，通过斯塔巴克和斯塔布的艰苦努力——一个在船头，另一个在船尾——前三角帆、前帆和主顶帆的颤抖残余物被从桅杆上割下来，然后像信天翁的羽毛一样涡流到下风方向，当那只被暴风雨抛起的鸟振翅时，有时这些羽毛会被抛到风中。

The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and a storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went through the water with some precision again; and the course—for the present, East-south-east—which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more given to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only steered according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing the ship as near her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo! a good sign! the wind seemed coming round astern; aye, the foul breeze became fair!
三个相应的新帆现在已经弯曲并收拢，并且风暴帆被放置在更远的船尾；于是，船很快又以一定的精确度穿过了水面。如果可行的话，他要驾驶的航线——目前是东南偏东——再次交给了舵手。因为在狂风肆虐的时候，他只是根据狂风的变化来驾驶。但当他现在让船尽可能靠近航线时，同时观察罗盘，瞧！好兆头！风似乎从船尾吹来。是的，污浊的微风变得晴朗了！

Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of ‘HO! THE FAIR WIND! OH-YE-HO, CHEERLY MEN!’ the crew singing for joy, that so promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents preceding it.
伴随着欢快的“HO！顺风顺水！噢，耶霍，快乐的人们！”船员们欢呼雀跃，如此有希望的事件应该很快就伪造了之前的邪恶预兆。

In compliance with the standing order of his commander—to report immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change in the affairs of the deck,—Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to the breeze—however reluctantly and gloomily,—than he mechanically went below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.
按照他的指挥官的常规命令——在二十四小时的任何一个时间里，甲板上的事务发生任何决定性的变化，斯塔巴克立即将帆桁修整成微风——无论多么不情愿和郁闷地，然后他机械地走到下面，向亚哈船长通报情况。

Ere knocking at his state-room, he involuntarily paused before it a moment. The cabin lamp—taking long swings this way and that—was burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man’s bolted door,—a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper panels. The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of the elements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as they stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an honest, upright man; but out of Starbuck’s heart, at that instant when he saw the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew it for itself.
在敲响他的包房之前，他不由自主地在包房前停了下来。舱内的灯——左右摇晃了很长时间——断断续续地燃烧着，在老人的门上投下断断续续的阴影——一扇薄薄的门，插着固定的百叶窗，代替了上面的面板。小屋与世隔绝的地下环境使得这里笼罩着某种嗡嗡的寂静，尽管它被所有元素的咆哮所包围。架子上装满子弹的步枪直立在前舱壁上，闪闪发光。星巴克是一个诚实、正直的人；但斯塔巴克的心里，在看到火枪的那一瞬间，却奇怪地升起了一种邪恶的念头；但它与中性或良好的伴奏如此融合，以至于他一时几乎不知道它本身。

‘He would have shot me once,’ he murmured, ‘yes, there’s the very musket that he pointed at me;—that one with the studded stock; let me touch it—lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly lances, strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye, aye; and powder in the pan;—that’s not good. Best spill it?—wait. I’ll cure myself of this. I’ll hold the musket boldly while I think.—I come to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and doom,—THAT’S fair for Moby Dick. It’s a fair wind that’s only fair for that accursed fish.—The very tube he pointed at me!—the very one; THIS one—I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I handle now.—Aye and he would fain kill all his crew. Does he not say he will not strike his spars to any gale? Has he not dashed his heavenly quadrant? and in these same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere dead reckoning of the error-abounding log? and in this very Typhoon, did he not swear that he would have no lightning-rods? But shall this crazed old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship’s company down to doom with him?—Yes, it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and more, if this ship come to any deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my soul swears this ship will, if Ahab have his way. If, then, he were this instant—put aside, that crime would not be his. Ha! is he muttering in his sleep? Yes, just there,—in there, he’s sleeping. Sleeping? aye, but still alive, and soon awake again. I can’t withstand thee, then, old man. Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to; all this thou scornest. Flat obedience to thy own flat commands, this is all thou breathest. Aye, and say’st the men have vow’d thy vow; say’st all of us are Ahabs. Great God forbid!—But is there no other way? no lawful way?—Make him a prisoner to be taken home? What! hope to wrest this old man’s living power from his own living hands? Only a fool would try it. Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with ropes and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would be more hideous than a caged tiger, then. I could not endure the sight; could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself, inestimable reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage. What, then, remains? The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest. I stand alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between me and law.—Aye, aye, ‘tis so.—Is heaven a murderer when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets and skin together?—And would I be a murderer, then, if’—and slowly, stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket’s end against the door.
“他一定会朝我开枪的，”他低声说道，“是的，他指着我的就是这把步枪；——那把有钉枪托的步枪；”让我触摸它——举起它。奇怪的是，我已经使用了这么多致命的长矛，奇怪的是我现在竟然如此颤抖。已加载？我一定要看看。好的好的;锅里还有粉末；——那不好。最好把它洒出来？——等等。我会治好自己的这个病。我一边思考，一边大胆地握着步枪——我来向他报告风向。但如何公平呢？对于死亡和厄运来说是公平的——这对于白鲸来说是公平的。这是一股顺风，只对那条该死的鱼公平。——他指着我的那个管子！——就是那个；这个——我拿着它；他会用我现在处理的东西杀了我。——是的，他会很乐意杀死他所有的船员。他不是说他不会在任何大风中敲击他的桅杆吗？他不是已经打破了他的天象限吗？在这些同样危险的海洋中，他不是仅仅通过错误丰富的日志进行航位推算来摸索自己的道路吗？就在这次台风中，他不是发誓他不会有避雷针吗？但是，这个发疯的老人会被驯服地把整艘船的人都拖下水吗？——是的，如果这艘船受到任何致命的伤害，他就会成为三十名甚至更多人的蓄意谋杀者；但是，如果这艘船受到致命的伤害，他就会成为杀害三十名甚至更多人的故意杀人犯。并受到致命的伤害，我的灵魂发誓，如果亚哈如愿的话，这艘船一定会的。那么，如果他此时此刻——抛在一边，那罪孽就不是他的了。哈！他在睡梦中嘀咕吗？是的，就在那里，——在那里，他正在睡觉。睡眠？是的，但还活着，很快就会再次醒来。那么，我无法忍受你，老人。不推理；不是抗议；你不听恳求；这一切你都蔑视。完全服从你自己的命令，这就是你呼吸的一切。是的，说这些人已经发过你的誓言；说我们都是亚哈人。大神禁止！——但是就没有别的办法了吗？没有合法的办法吗？——让他成为囚犯带回家？什么！希望从这位老人活着的手中夺取他的生命权吗？只有傻子才会尝试。说他甚至被固定住了；到处都是绳索和缆索；被拴在这个舱室地板上的环形螺栓上；那样的话，他就比笼中猛虎还可怕了。我无法忍受这种景象；他不可能发出嚎叫；所有的安慰、睡眠本身、不可估量的理智都会让我踏上这段难以忍受的漫长旅程。那么，还剩下什么呢？陆地相距数百里，锁定了最近的日本。我独自站在这片大海上，我和法律之间隔着两片海洋和整个大陆。——是的，是的，就是这样。——当闪电击中一个躺在床上、点燃床单的潜在杀人犯时，天堂是一个杀人犯吗？和皮肤在一起？——那么，如果——那么，我会是一个杀人犯吗？——他慢慢地、偷偷地、半侧着眼，把装满子弹的步枪的一端靠在门上。

‘On this level, Ahab’s hammock swings within; his head this way. A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.—Oh Mary! Mary!—boy! boy! boy!—But if I wake thee not to death, old man, who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck’s body this day week may sink, with all the crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shall I?—The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails are reefed and set; she heads her course.’
“在这一层，亚哈的吊床在里面摆动；他的头这样。只要轻轻一碰，星巴克就能活下来，再次拥抱他的妻子和孩子。——噢，玛丽！玛丽！——孩子！男生！孩子！——但是，如果我叫醒你，别把你弄死，老头子，谁能告诉我们，今天星巴克的身体会沉到什么无声的深处，一周可能会和所有船员一起沉没！伟大的上帝，你在哪里？我可以吗？我可以吗？——风势已经减弱，风向变了，先生；前帆和主中帆已收帆并固定；她走在自己的道路上。

‘Stern all! Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart at last!’
“大家都严肃起来！噢，莫比迪克，我终于抓住了你的心！”

Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man’s tormented sleep, as if Starbuck’s voice had caused the long dumb dream to speak.
这些声音现在从老人痛苦的睡眠中呼啸而出，仿佛星巴克的声音让漫长的哑梦开口说话。

The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard’s arm against the panel; Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.
尚未调平的步枪像酒鬼的手臂一样在面板上颤抖。星巴克就像是在与天使摔跤；但他转身走出门，把死亡管放在架子上，然后离开了这个地方。

‘He’s too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell him. I must see to the deck here. Thou know’st what to say.’
“他睡得太熟了，斯塔布先生；”你下去叫醒他，告诉他。我必须留意这里的甲板。你知道该说什么。

Chapter 124
第124章

The Needle.
针。

Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod’s gurgling track, pushed her on like giants’ palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world boomed before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, the invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place; where his bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a crucible of molten gold, that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.
第二天早上，尚未平息的大海缓慢地翻腾着巨大的巨浪，在裴阔德号潺潺的航迹中奋力前行，像巨人张开的手掌一样推着她前进。强劲而强劲的微风吹来，天空和空气仿佛张开巨大的帆。整个世界在风前轰鸣。看不见的太阳被晨光遮住了，只能通过其所在位置的扩散强度来判断。他的刺刀射线成堆地移动。巴比伦国王和王后的纹饰统治着一切。大海就像一个熔金的坩埚，随着光和热而冒泡。

Long maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye the bright sun’s rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly settled by the stern, he turned behind, and saw the sun’s rearward place, and how the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating wake.
亚哈长时间保持着令人着迷的沉默，站在一旁。每当那艘摇摇欲坠的船降低船首斜桅时，他都会转过头来注视前方明亮的阳光。当她深深地停在船尾时，他转过身来，看到了太阳的后方，以及同样的黄色光芒是如何与他坚定不移的尾迹融为一体的。

‘Ha, ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea-chariot of the sun. Ho, ho! all ye nations before my prow, I bring the sun to ye! Yoke on the further billows; hallo! a tandem, I drive the sea!’
‘哈哈哈，我的船！你现在很可能被认为是太阳的海上战车。嗬嗬！我船头前的所有国家，我将太阳带给你们！束缚在更远的波涛上；你好！串联，我驶向大海！

But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards the helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.
但他突然被某种反感的想法收住了，他急忙走向舵手，沙哑地询问船的航向。

‘East-sou-east, sir,’ said the frightened steersman.
“东——东南——东，长官，”舵手惊慌失措地说。

‘Thou liest!’ smiting him with his clenched fist. ‘Heading East at this hour in the morning, and the sun astern?’
“你撒谎了！”用紧握的拳头打他。 “早上这个时候向东行驶，太阳在后面？”

Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very blinding palpableness must have been the cause.
对此，每个人都感到困惑。因为亚哈刚才观察到的现象莫名其妙地没有被其他人注意到。但其令人眼花缭乱的明显性一定是原因。

Thrusting his head half way into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse of the compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost seemed to stagger. Standing behind him Starbuck looked, and lo! the two compasses pointed East, and the Pequod was as infallibly going West.
亚哈把头伸进罗盘柜的一半，瞥见了罗盘。他举起的手臂缓缓落下。有那么一会儿，他几乎踉踉跄跄起来。站在他身后的斯塔巴克看了看，瞧！两个罗盘指向东方，而裴廓德号则毫无疑问地向西行驶。

But ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew, the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, ‘I have it! It has happened before. Mr. Starbuck, last night’s thunder turned our compasses—that’s all. Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take it.’
但还没等船员们发出第一个疯狂的警报，老人就僵硬地笑着喊道：“我找到了！”这种事以前也发生过。斯塔巴克先生，昨晚的雷声改变了我们的方向——仅此而已。我想你以前听说过这样的事。

‘Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir,’ said the pale mate, gloomily.
‘是啊；但我从来没有遇到过这种事，先生。”脸色苍白的大副沮丧地说。

Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in more than one case occurred to ships in violent storms. The magnetic energy, as developed in the mariner’s needle, is, as all know, essentially one with the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be much marvelled at, that such things should be. Instances where the lightning has actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the spars and rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more fatal; all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before magnetic steel was of no more use than an old wife’s knitting needle. But in either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the original virtue thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected, the same fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; even were the lowermost one inserted into the kelson.
在这里，必须指出的是，类似的船舶在暴风雨中发生的事故已经不止一例了。众所周知，水手针中产生的磁能本质上与天堂中看到的电力是一回事。因此，出现这样的事情并不足为奇。在闪电实际上击中船只的情况下，击落了一些桅杆和索具，对针的影响有时甚至更加致命；它所有的磁石优点都被消灭了，所以以前的磁钢就像老太太的织针一样没有用处。但无论哪种情况，针本身都不会再恢复因此受损或丧失的原始美德；如果罗经柜罗盘受到影响，船上的所有其他罗盘也会遭受同样的命运；甚至将最下面的一根插入凯尔森。

Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and eyeing the transpointed compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his extended hand, now took the precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that the needles were exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship’s course to be changed accordingly. The yards were hard up; and once more the Pequod thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed fair one had only been juggling her.
老人故意站在罗经柜前，注视着转位的罗盘，用他伸出的那只锋利的手，确定了太阳的精确方位，对指针完全颠倒感到满意，大声喊出了他对船的航向的命令。作相应改变。院子里很硬。裴廓德号再次将她无畏的船头推向逆风，因为那个所谓的美丽的人只是在玩弄她。

Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret thoughts, Starbuck said nothing, but quietly he issued all requisite orders; while Stubb and Flask—who in some small degree seemed then to be sharing his feelings—likewise unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some of them lowly rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of Fate. But as ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly unimpressed; or if impressed, it was only with a certain magnetism shot into their congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab’s.
与此同时，无论星巴克自己心里有什么秘密想法，他什么也没说，只是静静地发出了所有必要的命令；而斯塔布和弗拉斯克——他们当时似乎在某种程度上分享了他的感受——同样默默地默许了。至于男人们，虽然有些人低声嘀咕，但他们对亚哈的恐惧却比对命运的恐惧还要大。但和以往一样，异教标枪手几乎完全不为所动。或者说，如果说印象深刻的话，也只是因为亚哈不灵活的内心注入了一定的吸引力。

For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed copper sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck.
老人在甲板上漫步了一会儿，陷入了翻滚的遐想。但他的象牙脚后跟不慎滑倒，他看到前一天所拥有的象限仪的铜制瞄准镜被压碎，冲到了甲板上。

‘Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun’s pilot! yesterday I wrecked thee, and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck—a lance without a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker’s needles. Quick!’
‘你这可怜的、骄傲的观天者和太阳的领航员！昨天我毁掉了你，今天罗盘也很想毁掉我。一般般。但亚哈仍然是关卡加载石的主宰。星巴克先生——一把没有杆子的长矛；顶槌，以及最小的制帆针。快的！'

Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about to do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been to revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses. Besides, the old man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though clumsily practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious sailors, without some shudderings and evil portents.
也许，除了决定他现在要做的事情的冲动之外，还有某些谨慎的动机，其目的可能是通过他的巧妙技巧来重振船员们的精神，在一件如此奇妙的事情上倒置的圆规。此外，老人深知，用转针来驾驶虽然笨拙，但对于迷信的水手来说，却是不能忽视的事情，否则会带来一些颤抖和不祥的预兆。

‘Men,’ said he, steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed him the things he had demanded, ‘my men, the thunder turned old Ahab’s needles; but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, that will point as true as any.’
“伙计们，”当大副把他所要求的东西递给他时，他坚定地转向船员们，“伙计们，雷霆转动了老亚哈的针；但亚哈可以用这块钢铁制造出属于他自己的钢铁，这一点同样正确。”

Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this was said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might follow. But Starbuck looked away.
据说，水手们互相交换了一个羞涩的、奴性的、惊奇的眼神。他们用着迷的眼睛等待着接下来发生的任何魔法。但斯塔巴克却移开了视线。

With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining, bade him hold it upright, without its touching the deck. Then, with the maul, after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered that, several times, the mate still holding the rod as before. Then going through some small strange motions with it—whether indispensable to the magnetizing of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe of the crew, is uncertain—he called for linen thread; and moving to the binnacle, slipped out the two reversed needles there, and horizontally suspended the sail-needle by its middle, over one of the compass-cards. At first, the steel went round and round, quivering and vibrating at either end; but at last it settled to its place, when Ahab, who had been intently watching for this result, stepped frankly back from the binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it, exclaimed,—‘Look ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of the level loadstone! The sun is East, and that compass swears it!’
亚哈用顶槌一击，打掉了长矛的钢头，然后把剩下的长铁棒交给了大副，吩咐他把它保持直立，不要让它碰到甲板。然后，他用大锤反复击打这根铁棒的上端，然后把钝针竖放在铁棒的上面，用力锤击几次，大副仍然像以前一样握着铁棒。然后，他用它做了一些奇怪的小动作——这是否是磁化钢铁所必需的，或者只是为了增强船员的敬畏感，尚不确定——他要求使用亚麻线；然后走到罗经柜，把那儿的两根颠倒的指针滑出来，把帆针的中间水平悬挂在一张罗盘卡上。起初，钢铁不停地转来转去，两端都在颤抖。但最后它就位了，这时亚哈一直在专心地注视着这个结果，他坦率地从罗经柜上退了一步，用伸出的手臂指向罗经柜，喊道：“你们自己看看，如果亚哈不关卡加载石之主！太阳在东方，指南针发誓！

One after another they peered in, for nothing but their own eyes could persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they slunk away.
他们一前一后地往里看，因为只有自己的眼睛才能说服他们的无知，然后他们一前一后地溜走了。

In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all his fatal pride.
在他充满蔑视和胜利的火热眼神中，你看到了亚哈致命的骄傲。

Chapter 125
第125章

The Log and Line.
日志和行。

While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the log and line had but very seldom been in use. Owing to a confident reliance upon other means of determining the vessel’s place, some merchantmen, and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave the log; though at the same time, and frequently more for form’s sake than anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary slate the course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of progression every hour. It had been thus with the Pequod. The wooden reel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of the after bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun and wind had warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that hung so idly. But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he happened to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene, and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic oath about the level log and line. The ship was sailing plungingly; astern the billows rolled in riots.
虽然命中注定的裴阔德号在这次航行中已经漂浮了很长时间，但圆木和绳索却很少使用。由于对确定船只位置的其他方法充满信心，一些商船和许多捕鲸者，特别是在巡航时，完全忽视了举起圆木；但与此同时，通常更多的是为了形式而不是其他任何事情，定期在惯用的石板上记下船舶驾驶的航线，以及每小时假定的平均前进速度。裴廓德号就是这样。木卷轴和有棱角的原木悬挂在后舷墙的栏杆下方，长期未动过。雨水和水花把它弄湿了。阳光和风把它扭曲了；所有的元素结合在一起，让这个无所事事地悬挂着的东西腐烂了。但不管这一切，亚哈的情绪占据了他的心头，因为在磁铁场景发生后不久，他偶然瞥见了卷轴，他记起了他的象限是如何不再存在的，并记起了他对水平木和线的疯狂誓言。船正在猛烈地航行。船尾暴乱滚滚。

‘Forward, there! Heave the log!’
‘前进，那里！把木头举起来！’

Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman. ‘Take the reel, one of ye, I’ll heave.’
来了两个海员。金色的塔希提人和灰色的马恩岛人。 “拿起卷轴，你们中的一个，我来举起。”

They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship’s lee side, where the deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into the creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.
他们朝船尾的最末端走去，在船的背风侧，那里的甲板在风的斜向能量作用下几乎陷入了奶油色、侧向汹涌的大海中。

The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to him.
马恩岛人拿起卷轴，用卷轴突出的手柄端高高举起，线轴围绕着卷轴旋转，这样，有角的圆木向下垂着，直到亚哈走到他身边。

Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to speak.
亚哈站在他面前，轻轻地松开大约三十或四十圈，形成一个初步的手卷，准备扔进海里，这时老马恩岛人全神贯注地看着他和鱼线，大胆地说话了。

‘Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have spoiled it.’
“先生，我不相信它；这条线看起来已经很远了，长期的炎热和潮湿已经把它弄坏了。”

‘‘Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee? Thou seem’st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it.’
“斜纹会固定住的，老先生。长时间的炎热和潮湿，他们把你宠坏了吗？你似乎抓住了。或者，也许更真实的是，生活抓住了你；不是你。

‘I hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these grey hairs of mine ‘tis not worth while disputing, ‘specially with a superior, who’ll ne’er confess.’
“我拿着线轴，先生。但正如我的队长所说。我的头发已经花白了，“不值得争论，尤其是和上级，他永远不会坦白。”

‘What’s that? There now’s a patched professor in Queen Nature’s granite-founded College; but methinks he’s too subservient. Where wert thou born?’
'那是什么？现在，自然女王花岗岩建立的学院里有了一位修补过的教授。但我觉得他太顺从了。你出生在哪里？

‘In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir.’
“在小岩石马恩岛，先生。”

‘Excellent! Thou’st hit the world by that.’
'出色的！你因此震惊了世界。

‘I know not, sir, but I was born there.’
“我不知道，先生，但我出生在那里。”

‘In the Isle of Man, hey? Well, the other way, it’s good. Here’s a man from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man; which is sucked in—by what? Up with the reel! The dead, blind wall butts all inquiring heads at last. Up with it! So.’
“在马恩岛，嘿？嗯，从另一个角度来说，这也很好。这是一个来自曼恩的人；一个出生在曾经独立的人类中的人，现在却脱离了人类；被什么吸入？卷轴起来！死气沉沉、盲目的墙壁最终撞上了所有好奇的人的头。加油！所以。'

The log was heaved. The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long dragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl. In turn, jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows, the towing resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely.
木头被举了起来。松散的线圈迅速拉直，形成一条长长的拖绳，然后，卷轴立即开始旋转。反过来，随着滚滚巨浪的起伏，原木的牵引阻力使老卷材工奇怪地摇摇晃晃。

‘Hold hard!’
“坚持住！”

Snap! the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging log was gone.
折断！过度拉紧的绳子垂下来，形成一根长长的花彩。拖船日志不见了。

‘I crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad sea parts the log-line. But Ahab can mend all. Haul in here, Tahitian; reel up, Manxman. And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and mend thou the line. See to it.’
“我压碎了象限，雷霆转动了指针，现在疯狂的大海把原木线分开了。”但亚哈可以治愈一切。拖到这里，塔希提岛；卷起来，曼克斯曼。你们看，让木匠再做一根圆木，然后把绳子补好。留意它。

‘There he goes now; to him nothing’s happened; but to me, the skewer seems loosening out of the middle of the world. Haul in, haul in, Tahitian! These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and dragging slow. Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?’
“他现在就在那里；对他来说什么也没有发生；但对我来说，这串串似乎从世界的中心松动了。拉进来，拉进来，塔希提岛！这些线完整地延伸出来，旋转着；进来时断断续续，缓慢地拖着。哈，皮普？来帮忙；呃，皮普？

‘Pip? whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from the whale-boat. Pip’s missing. Let’s see now if ye haven’t fished him up here, fisherman. It drags hard; I guess he’s holding on. Jerk him, Tahiti! Jerk him off; we haul in no cowards here. Ho! there’s his arm just breaking water. A hatchet! a hatchet! cut it off—we haul in no cowards here. Captain Ahab! sir, sir! here’s Pip, trying to get on board again.’
‘皮普？谁叫你们皮普？皮普从捕鲸船上跳了下来。皮普失踪了。现在让我们看看你们是否还没有把他钓上来，渔夫。它拖得很辛苦；我猜他还在坚持。操他，塔希提岛！给他打手枪；我们这里不招收胆小鬼。嗬！他的手臂刚刚破水。斧头！一把斧子！切断它——我们这里不招惹任何胆小鬼。亚哈船长！先生，先生！这是皮普，他正试图再次上船。

‘Peace, thou crazy loon,’ cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm. ‘Away from the quarter-deck!’
“安静点，你这个疯子，”马恩岛人喊道，抓住了他的胳膊。 “远离尾甲板！”

‘The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser,’ muttered Ahab, advancing. ‘Hands off from that holiness! Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
“大白痴总是责骂小白痴，”亚哈走上前来，低声说道。 ‘把手从那神圣的东西上拿开！你说皮普在哪里，孩子？

‘Astern there, sir, astern! Lo! lo!’
‘船尾，先生，船尾！瞧！瞧！’

‘And who art thou, boy? I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of thy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve through! Who art thou, boy?’
‘孩子，你是谁？我在你空洞的瞳孔中看不到我的倒影。天啊！那个人就该是不朽灵魂筛选的东西！你是谁，孩子？

‘Bell-boy, sir; ship’s-crier; ding, dong, ding! Pip! Pip! Pip! One hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high—looks cowardly—quickest known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip the coward?’
“服务生，先生；报船员；叮、咚、叮！噗！噗！噗！奖励皮普一百磅粘土；五英尺高——看起来很胆怯——这是已知最快的！叮、咚、叮！谁见过胆小鬼皮普？

‘There can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens! look down here. Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned him, ye creative libertines. Here, boy; Ahab’s cabin shall be Pip’s home henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let’s down.’
“雪线以上不可能有爱心。”哦，你们冰冻的天堂！往下看。你们确实生下了这个不幸的孩子，却抛弃了他，你们这些富有创造力的浪子。在这里，孩子；从此以后，亚哈的小屋将成为皮普的家，只要亚哈还活着。你触动了我最深处的中心，孩子；你被我的心弦编织成的绳索与我联系在一起。来吧，我们下去吧。

‘What’s this? here’s velvet shark-skin,’ intently gazing at Ahab’s hand, and feeling it. ‘Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing as this, perhaps he had ne’er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a man-rope; something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perth now come and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the white, for I will not let this go.’
'这是什么？这是天鹅绒鲨鱼皮，”专注地盯着亚哈的手，感受它。 “啊，现在，可怜的皮普却感到如此美好，也许他从未迷失过！先生，在我看来，这就像一根绳索；软弱的灵魂可能会坚持的东西。哦，先生，现在就让老珀斯来把这两只手铆在一起吧；黑的和白的，因为我不会放过这个。”

‘Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse horrors than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers in gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not what he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come! I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an Emperor’s!’
“噢，孩子，我也不会，除非我会让你陷入比这里更可怕的境地。”那么，到我的小屋来吧。瞧！你们这些相信诸神都是善良的，也相信人类都是邪恶的，瞧你们！看到全知的神祇对受苦受难的人类视而不见；人虽然愚蠢，不知道自己在做什么，但却充满了爱和感激的甜蜜。来！我感觉牵着你的黑手引导你比握住皇帝的手更自豪！

‘There go two daft ones now,’ muttered the old Manxman. ‘One daft with strength, the other daft with weakness. But here’s the end of the rotten line—all dripping, too. Mend it, eh? I think we had best have a new line altogether. I’ll see Mr. Stubb about it.’
“现在有两个蠢货了，”老马恩岛人嘀咕道。 ‘一个笨蛋有力量，另一个笨蛋有弱点。但这是腐烂线的尽头——也都在滴水。补一下吧？我认为我们最好有一条新的生产线。我会去找斯塔布先生谈谈这件事。

Chapter 126
第126章

The Life-Buoy.
救生圈。

Steering now south-eastward by Ahab’s levelled steel, and her progress solely determined by Ahab’s level log and line; the Pequod held on her path towards the Equator. Making so long a passage through such unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long, sideways impelled by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild; all these seemed the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate scene.
现在由亚哈的水平钢舵转向东南，她的进度完全取决于亚哈的水平日志和线；裴廓德号继续驶向赤道。在如此人迹罕至的水域中航行了这么长时间，看不到任何船只，不久之后，在不变的信风的推动下，横行在单调温和的波浪上；这一切似乎都是奇怪的平静的事情，预示着一些骚乱和绝望的场景。

At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of the Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch—then headed by Flask—was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly—like half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod’s murdered Innocents—that one and all, they started from their reveries, and for the space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all transfixedly listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained within hearing. The Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled. Yet the grey Manxman—the oldest mariner of all—declared that the wild thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly drowned men in the sea.
最后，当船接近赤道渔场的郊区时，在黎明前的深夜中，航行经过一群岩石小岛；当时由弗拉斯克带头的值班人员被一声哀嚎、狂野而神秘的哭声吓了一跳，就像所有希律王被谋杀的无辜者的鬼魂发出的半清晰的哀号一样，他们从他们的遐想中开始，在一些时间里有时站着，或坐着，或倾斜着，像雕刻的罗马奴隶一样，全神贯注地听着，而那狂野的叫喊声仍然在耳边。船员中的基督教徒或文明人说那是美人鱼，并感到不寒而栗。但异教标枪手仍然不为所动。然而，灰色的马恩岛人——最年长的水手——宣称听到的狂野的、令人惊悚的声音是刚刚在海里淹死的人的声音。

Below in his hammock, Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn, when he came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings. He hollowly laughed, and thus explained the wonder.
亚哈在下面的吊床上才听到这件事，直到黎明时分，他来到了甲板上。然后弗拉斯克向他讲述了这件事，其中不乏暗示的黑暗含义。他干笑一声，解释了这个奇怪的事情。

Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of great numbers of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams, or some dams that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept company with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail. But this only the more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a very superstitious feeling about seals, arising not only from their peculiar tones when in distress, but also from the human look of their round heads and semi-intelligent faces, seen peeringly uprising from the water alongside. In the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have more than once been mistaken for men.
船所经过的那些岩石岛屿是大量海豹的栖息地，一些失去了母亲的年轻海豹，或者一些失去了幼崽的母亲，一定已经站在船附近，与她在一起，哭泣和抽泣。带着他们人类般的哀号。但这只会对他们中的一些人产生更大的影响，因为大多数水手对海豹抱有一种非常迷信的感觉，这种感觉不仅来自于它们遇险时特有的声音，还来自于它们圆圆的脑袋和半聪明的脸的人类外观，从凝视的角度看去从水边起义。在大海中，在某些情况下，海豹不止一次被误认为是人类。

But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning. At sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore; and whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for sailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus with the man, there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he had not been long at his perch, when a cry was heard—a cry and a rushing—and looking up, they saw a falling phantom in the air; and looking down, a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the sea.
但船员们的预兆注定会在那天早上得到最合理的证实，其中一名船员的命运将会得到证实。日出时，这个人从吊床上走到船头的桅杆头。是否他还没有从睡梦中醒来（因为水手有时会在过渡状态下升到高处），这个人是否也是如此，现在无从得知。但是，尽管如此，他在栖息处没呆多久，就听到一声叫喊——一声叫喊，一阵冲撞——抬头一看，他们看到空中有一个倒下的幽灵；低头一看，蔚蓝的大海上有一堆白色的气泡在翻滚。

The life-buoy—a long slender cask—was dropped from the stern, where it always hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it, and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that it slowly filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every pore; and the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as if to yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.
救生圈——一个细长的木桶——从船尾掉下来，它总是听从狡猾的弹簧悬挂在那里。但没有人伸手去抓住它，太阳长时间照在这个木桶上，它已经缩小了，所以它慢慢地充满了，而那干枯的木头也充满了它的每一个毛孔。镶满钉子的铁桶跟着水手一直到了底部，仿佛要把枕头交给他，虽然是软的，但却是硬的。

And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out for the White Whale, on the White Whale’s own peculiar ground; that man was swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at the time. Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, at least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of evil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged. They declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they had heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.
就这样，裴廓德号上第一个登上桅杆寻找白鲸的人，在白鲸自己独特的地面上；那个人被吞没在深渊里。但当时可能很少有人想到这一点。事实上，在某种程度上，他们并没有对这一事件感到悲伤，至少作为一个预兆。因为他们认为这不是未来邪恶的预兆，而是已经预示的邪恶的实现。他们宣称现在他们知道前一天晚上听到的那些疯狂尖叫声的原因了。但老马恩岛人再次拒绝了。

The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see to it; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as in the feverish eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of the voyage, all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly connected with its final end, whatever that might prove to be; therefore, they were going to leave the ship’s stern unprovided with a buoy, when by certain strange signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint concerning his coffin.
丢失的救生圈现在需要更换；星巴克奉命负责此事；但由于找不到足够轻的木桶，而且在航行危机似乎即将来临的狂热渴望中，所有的人都对任何劳作都感到不耐烦，除了与最终结果直接相关的事情，无论结果如何。 ;因此，当他们准备在没有浮标的情况下离开船尾时，魁魁格通过某些奇怪的迹象和暗示暗示了关于他的棺材的暗示。

‘A life-buoy of a coffin!’ cried Starbuck, starting.
“棺材的救生圈！”斯塔巴克惊愕地喊道。

‘Rather queer, that, I should say,’ said Stubb.
“我应该说，这很奇怪，”斯塔布说。

‘It will make a good enough one,’ said Flask, ‘the carpenter here can arrange it easily.’
“这将是一件足够好的作品，”弗拉斯克说，“这里的木匠可以轻松地安排它。”

‘Bring it up; there’s nothing else for it,’ said Starbuck, after a melancholy pause. ‘Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so—the coffin, I mean. Dost thou hear me? Rig it.’
'提出来; “没有别的办法了，”斯塔巴克忧郁地停顿了一下后说道。 “把它组装起来，木匠；别这样看着我——我是说棺材。你听到我说话了吗？装备它。

‘And shall I nail down the lid, sir?’ moving his hand as with a hammer.
“先生，我要钉上盖子吗？”他的手像拿着锤子一样移动着。

‘Aye.’
“是啊。”

‘And shall I caulk the seams, sir?’ moving his hand as with a caulking-iron.
“先生，我可以填缝接缝吗？”他的手像用填缝铁一样移动。

‘Aye.’
“是啊。”

‘And shall I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?’ moving his hand as with a pitch-pot.
“那么我应该用沥青来支付同样的钱吗，先生？”他像拿着投壶一样移动着他的手。

‘Away! what possesses thee to this? Make a life-buoy of the coffin, and no more.—Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me.’
'离开！你为何如此？把棺材当救生圈，仅此而已。——先生。斯塔布，弗拉斯克先生，跟我来吧。

‘He goes off in a huff. The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks. Now I don’t like this. I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and he wears it like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he won’t put his head into it. Are all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin? And now I’m ordered to make a life-buoy of it. It’s like turning an old coat; going to bring the flesh on the other side now. I don’t like this cobbling sort of business—I don’t like it at all; it’s undignified; it’s not my place. Let tinkers’ brats do tinkerings; we are their betters. I like to take in hand none but clean, virgin, fair-and-square mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins at the beginning, and is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at the conclusion; not a cobbler’s job, that’s at an end in the middle, and at the beginning at the end. It’s the old woman’s tricks to be giving cobbling jobs. Lord! what an affection all old women have for tinkers. I know an old woman of sixty-five who ran away with a bald-headed young tinker once. And that’s the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their lonely old heads to run off with me. But heigh-ho! there are no caps at sea but snow-caps. Let me see. Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay over the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the snap-spring over the ship’s stern. Were ever such things done before with a coffin? Some superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied up in the rigging, ere they would do the job. But I’m made of knotty Aroostook hemlock; I don’t budge. Cruppered with a coffin! Sailing about with a grave-yard tray! But never mind. We workers in woods make bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as coffins and hearses. We work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling, and then we stash it if we can. Hem! I’ll do the job, now, tenderly. I’ll have me—let’s see—how many in the ship’s company, all told? But I’ve forgotten. Any way, I’ll have me thirty separate, Turk’s-headed life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the coffin. Then, if the hull go down, there’ll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun! Come hammer, caulking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike! Let’s to it.’
‘他气呼呼地走了。这一切他都能忍受；在他犹豫的部分。现在我不喜欢这个了。我为亚哈船长做了一条腿，他穿起来像个绅士；但我为 Queequeg 制作了一个乐队盒，他不会投入精力。难道我所有的苦心都随着那口棺材而付诸东流了吗？现在我被命令用它做一个救生圈。就像翻旧外套一样；现在要把肉带到另一边。我不喜欢这种拼凑的生意——我一点也不喜欢。这是有失尊严的；这不是我的地方。让修补匠的孩子们去修补吧；我们比他们更好。我只喜欢从事干净、原始、公平公正的数学工作，这些工作通常从开头开始，到中途时到中间，到结束时结束；这不是鞋匠的工作，那是在中间的末端，在末端的开始。给人做补鞋工是老太婆的伎俩。主！所有老妇人都对补锅匠怀有多么深厚的感情啊。我认识一位六十五岁的老太太，有一次她和一个光头的年轻补锅匠私奔了。这就是为什么当我把工作车间留在葡萄园时，我永远不会为岸上孤独的寡妇老妇人工作。他们可能在他们孤独的老头脑中想到要和我私奔。但是嘿嗬！海上没有帽子，只有雪帽。让我看看。用钉子钉住盖子；填缝接缝；支付与音调相同的费用；将它们压紧，然后用弹簧将其挂在船尾。以前用棺材做过这样的事吗？现在，一些迷信的老木匠在干活之前会被绑在索具上。但我是用多节的阿鲁斯托克铁杉制成的；我不让步。被棺材砸烂了！带着墓地托盘到处航行！但是不要紧。 我们树林里的工人制作新娘床架、牌桌、棺材和灵车。我们按月工作，或按工作岗位，或按利润工作；我们不需要问我们工作的原因和原因，除非它是太混乱的拼凑，然后我们尽可能地把它藏起来。哼！现在，我会温柔地完成这项工作。我会让我——让我们看看——船上的连队总共有多少人？但我忘记了。不管怎样，我会准备三十根独立的土耳其人头救生索，每根三英尺长，挂在棺材周围。到时候，如果船体沉了，就会有三十个活生生的家伙，争夺一口棺材，这种景象在阳光下并不常见！来吧，锤子、填缝铁、投壶和马林钉！让我们开始吧。’

Chapter 127
第127章

The Deck.
甲板。

THE COFFIN LAID UPON TWO LINE-TUBS, BETWEEN THE VICE-BENCH AND THE OPEN HATCHWAY; THE CARPENTER CAULKING ITS SEAMS; THE STRING OF TWISTED OAKUM SLOWLY UNWINDING FROM A LARGE ROLL OF IT PLACED IN THE BOSOM OF HIS FROCK.—AHAB COMES SLOWLY FROM THE CABIN-GANGWAY, AND HEARS PIP FOLLOWING HIM.
棺材放在副台和开放式舱口之间的两个线管上；木匠正在填缝它的接缝；扭曲的奥库姆绳子从放在他连衣裙怀里的一大卷绳子上慢慢地解开。——亚哈慢慢地从船舱舷梯里走出来，听到皮普跟在他后面。

Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this hand complies with my humor more genially than that boy.—Middle aisle of a church! What’s here?’
回来吧，小伙子；我很快就会再次和你们在一起。他去！这只手并不比那个男孩更符合我的幽默感。——教堂的中间过道！这里是什么？

‘Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck’s orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware the hatchway!’
“救生圈，长官。星巴克先生的命令。噢，看，先生！当心舱口！

‘Thank ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to the vault.’
‘谢谢你，伙计。你的棺材就在金库旁边。”

‘Sir? The hatchway? oh! So it does, sir, so it does.’
'先生？舱口？哦！确实如此，先生，确实如此。”

‘Art not thou the leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?’
‘你不是造腿的吗？你看，这树桩不是你店里的吗？

‘I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?’
“我相信是这样，先生；先生，套圈还站得住吗？

‘Well enough. But art thou not also the undertaker?’
'足够好。但你不也是殡葬者吗？

‘Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; but they’ve set me now to turning it into something else.’
'好的，先生;我在这里把这个东西修补好作为魁魁格的棺材；但他们现在让我把它变成别的东西。

‘Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling, monopolising, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the next day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those same coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a jack-of-all-trades.’
‘那么告诉我；难道你不是一个专横、专横、干涉、垄断、异教徒的老流氓吗？今天是造腿，第二天是棺材来把它们拍进去，又是从同样的棺材里出来的救生圈吗？你和众神一样没有原则，而且是万事通。

‘But I do not mean anything, sir. I do as I do.’
“但我没有任何意思，先生。我就照我做的做。

‘The gods again. Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a coffin? The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the craters for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in hand. Dost thou never?’
‘诸神又来了。听着，你从来没有唱过关于棺材的工作吗？他们说，泰坦巨神在凿出火山口时发出了抢夺声。剧中的掘墓人手里拿着铲子唱歌。你从来没有吗？

‘Sing, sir? Do I sing? Oh, I’m indifferent enough, sir, for that; but the reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there was none in his spade, sir. But the caulking mallet is full of it. Hark to it.’
‘唱歌吗，先生？我唱歌吗？哦，先生，对此我已经够冷漠了；但是，掘墓人之所以发出音乐，一定是因为他的铲子里没有任何东西，先生。但填缝木槌里装满了它。听听它。

‘Aye, and that’s because the lid there’s a sounding-board; and what in all things makes the sounding-board is this—there’s naught beneath. And yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter. Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against the churchyard gate, going in?
“是的，那是因为盖子上有一个共鸣板；”一切事物的共鸣板就是这样的——下面什么也没有。然而，卡彭特，棺材里装着尸体，听起来几乎是一样的。你是否曾经帮忙抬过棺材，听到棺材敲响墓地大门，走进去？

‘Faith, sir, I’ve—’
“老实说，先生，我已经——”

‘Faith? What’s that?’
'信仰？那是什么？'

‘Why, faith, sir, it’s only a sort of exclamation-like—that’s all, sir.’
“哎呀，老天爷，这只是一种类似感叹的声音——仅此而已，先生。”

‘Um, um; go on.’
‘嗯，嗯；继续。'

‘I was about to say, sir, that—’
“我正想说，先生，那——”

‘Art thou a silk-worm? Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself? Look at thy bosom! Despatch! and get these traps out of sight.’
‘你是蚕吗？你会把你自己的裹尸布从你自己身上纺出来吗？看看你的胸！发货！并让这些陷阱远离人们的视线。

‘He goes aft. That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot latitudes. I’ve heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos, is cut by the Equator right in the middle. Seems to me some sort of Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle. He’s always under the Line—fiery hot, I tell ye! He’s looking this way—come, oakum; quick. Here we go again. This wooden mallet is the cork, and I’m the professor of musical glasses—tap, tap!’
‘他走到船尾。现在，那是突然的；但在炎热的纬度地区，暴风雨来得突然。我听说阿尔伯马尔岛是加利帕戈斯群岛之一，被赤道从中间切开。在我看来，某种赤道也在老人身上划过，就在他的中间。他总是在底线之下——我告诉你们，他非常热辣！他朝这边看——来吧，奥库姆；快的。又来了。这个木槌就是软木塞，我是音乐眼镜教授——敲击，敲击！

(AHAB TO HIMSELF.)
（亚哈自言自语。）

‘There’s a sight! There’s a sound! The grey-headed woodpecker tapping the hollow tree! Blind and dumb might well be envied now. See! that thing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines. A most malicious wag, that fellow. Rat-tat! So man’s seconds tick! Oh! how immaterial are all materials! What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts? Here now’s the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made the expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life. A life-buoy of a coffin! Does it go further? Can it be that in some spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver! I’ll think of that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth, that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain twilight to me. Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed sound? I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return again. Now, then, Pip, we’ll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous philosophies from thee! Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds must empty into thee!’
‘有一个景象！有声音！灰头啄木鸟正在敲击空心树！盲目和愚蠢现在很可能会受到羡慕。看！那东西放在两个线桶上，里面装满了拖绳。真是个恶毒的玩笑啊，那个家伙。啦啦啦！所以男人的秒针滴答作响！哦！所有的物质都是多么的非物质啊！哪些东西是真实的，但都是不可估量的想法？现在，这是可怕的死亡象征，仅仅因为偶然，就成为了对最濒危生命的帮助和希望的表达标志。棺材的救生圈！是否更进一步？难道从某种精神意义上来说，棺材不过是一个不朽的保护者！我会考虑一下的。但不是。我已经远离了地球的黑暗面，以至于地球的另一面，理论上的光明面，对我来说似乎只是不确定的暮色。卡彭特，你难道永远不会发出那该死的声音吗？我往下走；当我再次回来时，不要让我在这里看到那东西。那么现在，皮普，我们来讨论一下这个问题；我确实从你身上吸取了最奇妙的哲学！来自未知世界的一些未知管道必须流入你！

Chapter 128
第128章

The Pequod Meets The Rachel.
裴廓德号遇见雷切尔号。

Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down upon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the time the Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as the broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails all fell together as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled from the smitten hull.
第二天，一艘大船，雷切尔号，被描述为直接向裴阔德号冲来，船上的所有桅杆上都挤满了人。当时“裴阔德”号在水中速度很快。但当那只宽翼迎风的陌生人飞近她时，自夸的船帆全都像空的气囊一样一起落下，破裂了，所有的生命都从被击碎的船体中逃走了。

‘Bad news; she brings bad news,’ muttered the old Manxman. But ere her commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he could hopefully hail, Ahab’s voice was heard.
'坏消息;她带来了坏消息。”老马恩岛人嘀咕道。但在此之前，她的指挥官嘴里吹着喇叭，在船上站了起来；还没等他满怀希望地欢呼，就听到了亚哈的声音。

‘Hast seen the White Whale?’
“看到白鲸了吗？”

‘Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?’
‘是的，昨天。你见过一艘随波逐流的捕鲸船吗？

Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question; and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the stranger captain himself, having stopped his vessel’s way, was seen descending her side. A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the Pequod’s main-chains, and he sprang to the deck. Immediately he was recognised by Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew. But no formal salutation was exchanged.
亚哈抑制住自己的喜悦，对这个意想不到的问题做出了否定的回答。然后，当陌生人船长本人停止了他的船的航行时，有人看到他从她的身边下来。猛力一拉，他的船钩很快就挂住了“裴阔德”号的主链，他跳到了甲板上。亚哈立即认出他是他认识的楠塔基特人。但双方没有互相致意。

‘Where was he?—not killed!—not killed!’ cried Ahab, closely advancing. ‘How was it?’
“他在哪儿？——没有被杀！——没有被杀！”亚哈大声喊道，一边逼近。 '它怎么样？'

It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous, while three of the stranger’s boats were engaged with a shoal of whales, which had led them some four or five miles from the ship; and while they were yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of Moby Dick had suddenly loomed up out of the water, not very far to leeward; whereupon, the fourth rigged boat—a reserved one—had been instantly lowered in chase. After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth boat—the swiftest keeled of all—seemed to have succeeded in fastening—at least, as well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it. In the distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam of bubbling white water; and after that nothing more; whence it was concluded that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with his pursuers, as often happens. There was some apprehension, but no positive alarm, as yet. The recall signals were placed in the rigging; darkness came on; and forced to pick up her three far to windward boats—ere going in quest of the fourth one in the precisely opposite direction—the ship had not only been necessitated to leave that boat to its fate till near midnight, but, for the time, to increase her distance from it. But the rest of her crew being at last safe aboard, she crowded all sail—stunsail on stunsail—after the missing boat; kindling a fire in her try-pots for a beacon; and every other man aloft on the look-out. But though when she had thus sailed a sufficient distance to gain the presumed place of the absent ones when last seen; though she then paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her; and not finding anything, had again dashed on; again paused, and lowered her boats; and though she had thus continued doing till daylight; yet not the least glimpse of the missing keel had been seen.
似乎是前一天下午晚些时候，陌生人的三艘船与一群鲸鱼发生了冲突，鲸鱼把他们带到了距离船大约四五英里的地方；当他们还在向上风方向快速追击时，莫比迪克的白色驼峰和头部突然从水中露出来，离下风方向不远；于是，第四艘有装备的船——一艘预留的船——立即被放下来进行追逐。在顺风航行之后，这第四艘船——所有船中龙骨速度最快的——似乎已经成功系紧了——至少，桅杆头的人可以告诉我们有关这一切的事情。远处，他看见那艘逐渐缩小的点状小船；然后是一道快速闪烁的白水；此后仅此而已；由此得出的结论是，受害的鲸鱼一定是无限期地带着追捕者逃跑了，就像经常发生的那样。人们有些担心，但目前还没有出现明显的警报。召回信号被放置在索具中；黑暗降临了；并被迫接起她的三艘远离迎风的船只——然后去寻找相反方向的第四艘——这艘船不仅必须让那艘船听天由命直到接近午夜，而且，暂时，以增加她与它的距离。但她的其他船员终于安全登上了船上，她把所有的帆都挤满了——双帆上的双帆——追寻那艘失踪的船；在她的试验罐中点燃火作为信标；以及所有其他在高处监视的人。 但是，尽管当她这样航行了足够的距离，到达了上次出现时缺席者的假定位置时；尽管她随后停下来放下她的备用船，在她周围拉动；没有找到任何东西，又继续前行。再次停了下来，放下了她的船。尽管她一直这样做到天亮；然而，却没有看到失踪的龙骨的任何踪影。

The story told, the stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his object in boarding the Pequod. He desired that ship to unite with his own in the search; by sailing over the sea some four or five miles apart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping a double horizon, as it were.
故事讲述了，这位陌生人船长立即透露了他登上裴廓德号的目的。他希望那艘船能与他自己的船联合起来进行搜索。沿着平行线航行在相距四五英里的海上，可以说扫过双重地平线。

‘I will wager something now,’ whispered Stubb to Flask, ‘that some one in that missing boat wore off that Captain’s best coat; mayhap, his watch—he’s so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of two pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height of the whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks—pale in the very buttons of his eyes—look—it wasn’t the coat—it must have been the—’
“我现在可以打赌，”斯塔布低声对弗拉斯克说，“那艘失踪的船上的某个人磨损了船长最好的外套；”也许是他的手表——他太急于想把它拿回来了。谁听说过在捕鲸季节的高峰期，两艘虔诚的捕鲸船追赶一艘失踪的捕鲸船？瞧，弗拉斯克，只要看看他看上去多么苍白——他的眼珠子都苍白了——看——那不是那件外套——那一定是——”

‘My boy, my own boy is among them. For God’s sake—I beg, I conjure’—here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far had but icily received his petition. ‘For eight-and-forty hours let me charter your ship—I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it—if there be no other way—for eight-and-forty hours only—only that—you must, oh, you must, and you SHALL do this thing.’
‘我的孩子，我自己的孩子也在其中。看在上帝的份上——我恳求，我祈求”——这位陌生的船长向亚哈大声说道，到目前为止，亚哈只冷冷地接受了他的请求。 “八个四十小时，让我包租你的船——我很乐意支付费用，并且全额支付——如果没有其他办法的话——仅限八个四十小时——仅此而已——你必须，哦，你必须，而且你应该做这件事。

‘His son!’ cried Stubb, ‘oh, it’s his son he’s lost! I take back the coat and watch—what says Ahab? We must save that boy.’
“他的儿子！”斯塔布喊道，“哦，他失去了他的儿子！”我收回外套，看着——亚哈怎么说？我们必须拯救那个男孩。

‘He’s drowned with the rest on ‘em, last night,’ said the old Manx sailor standing behind them; ‘I heard; all of ye heard their spirits.’
“昨晚，他和其他人一起淹死了，”站在他们身后的马恩岛老水手说道。 '我听说;你们所有人都听到了他们的灵魂。

Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the Rachel’s the more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of the Captain’s sons among the number of the missing boat’s crew; but among the number of the other boat’s crews, at the same time, but on the other hand, separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the chase, there had been still another son; as that for a time, the wretched father was plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity; which was only solved for him by his chief mate’s instinctively adopting the ordinary procedure of a whale-ship in such emergencies, that is, when placed between jeopardized but divided boats, always to pick up the majority first. But the captain, for some unknown constitutional reason, had refrained from mentioning all this, and not till forced to it by Ahab’s iciness did he allude to his one yet missing boy; a little lad, but twelve years old, whose father with the earnest but unmisgiving hardihood of a Nantucketer’s paternal love, had thus early sought to initiate him in the perils and wonders of a vocation almost immemorially the destiny of all his race. Nor does it unfrequently occur, that Nantucket captains will send a son of such tender age away from them, for a protracted three or four years’ voyage in some other ship than their own; so that their first knowledge of a whaleman’s career shall be unenervated by any chance display of a father’s natural but untimely partiality, or undue apprehensiveness and concern.
现在，很快就发现，使雷切尔号事件变得更加令人悲伤的是，失踪的船员中不仅有船长的一个儿子，而且还有船长的儿子之一。但在另一艘船的船员中，同时，但另一方面，在这场黑暗的追逐中，与船分离的还有另一个儿子。一时间，这位可怜的父亲陷入了最残酷的困惑之中。他的大副在这种紧急情况下本能地采取了捕鲸船的普通程序，也就是说，当被置于危险但分裂的船只之间时，总是先接起大多数船只，这才为他解决了这个问题。但出于某种未知的宪法原因，船长没有提及这一切，直到亚哈的冷漠迫使他提到他的一个尚未失踪的男孩；一个十二岁的小男孩，他的父亲怀着楠塔基特人的父爱般的诚挚但毫不疑虑的坚强，很早就试图让他开始从事一项几乎自古以来就是他所有种族的命运的危险和奇迹的职业。楠塔基特岛的船长们将如此年幼的儿子从他们身边送走，乘坐其他船而不是他们自己的船进行漫长的三四年的航行，这种情况也并不罕见。这样，他们对捕鲸人职业的初步了解就不会因父亲自然但不合时宜的偏爱或过度的忧虑和关心而受到任何影响。

Meantime, now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab; and Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but without the least quivering of his own.
与此同时，这个陌生人仍在恳求亚哈可怜的恩惠。亚哈仍然像铁砧一样站着，承受着每一次冲击，但他自己却没有丝毫颤抖。

‘I will not go,’ said the stranger, ‘till you say aye to me. Do to me as you would have me do to you in the like case. For YOU too have a boy, Captain Ahab—though but a child, and nestling safely at home now—a child of your old age too—Yes, yes, you relent; I see it—run, run, men, now, and stand by to square in the yards.’
“我不会去，”陌生人说，“除非你对我说“可以”。在类似情况下，请像您希望我对您做的那样对我做。因为你也有一个男孩，亚哈船长——虽然只是个孩子，现在安全地窝在家里——也是你晚年的孩子——是的，是的，你软化了；我看到了——跑吧，跑吧，伙计们，现在，站在院子里方阵。

‘Avast,’ cried Ahab—‘touch not a rope-yarn”; then in a voice that prolongingly moulded every word—‘Captain Gardiner, I will not do it. Even now I lose time. Good-bye, good-bye. God bless ye, man, and may I forgive myself, but I must go. Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnacle watch, and in three minutes from this present instant warn off all strangers: then brace forward again, and let the ship sail as before.’
“阿瓦斯特，”亚哈喊道，“不要碰一根绳子”；然后用一种长时间塑造每一个字的声音——“加德纳船长，我不会这样做。”即使现在我也失去了时间。再见，再见。上帝保佑你们，伙计，愿我原谅自己，但我必须走。斯塔巴克先生，看看罗经柜表，从现在开始的三分钟内警告所有陌生人：然后再次向前迈进，让船像以前一样航行。

Hurriedly turning, with averted face, he descended into his cabin, leaving the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter rejection of his so earnest suit. But starting from his enchantment, Gardiner silently hurried to the side; more fell than stepped into his boat, and returned to his ship.
他急忙转身，转过脸去，走进自己的船舱，令这位陌生的船长惊讶地发现，他如此诚挚的请求遭到了无条件、彻底的拒绝。但从结界开始，加德纳默默地赶到了一旁；更多的人跌倒，而不是踏上他的船，然后返回他的船。

Soon the two ships diverged their wakes; and long as the strange vessel was in view, she was seen to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot, however small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swung round; starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beat against a head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all the while, her masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as three tall cherry trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs.
很快，两艘船的尾迹就分开了。只要这艘奇怪的船在视野范围内，她就会在海上的每一个黑点上左右偏航，无论这个黑点多么小。她的院子左右摇摆；右舷和左舷，她继续逆风航行；现在她正迎着大海；它再次把她推到它面前；与此同时，当男孩们在树枝间摘樱桃时，她的桅杆和院子里密密麻麻地挤满了男人，就像三棵高大的樱桃树。

But by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainly saw that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained without comfort. She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were not.
但从她仍然停顿的航向和蜿蜒、悲惨的道路上，你清楚地看到这艘被水花浸湿的船仍然没有舒适感。她是雷切尔，为她的孩子们哭泣，因为他们已经不在了。

Chapter 129
第129章

The Cabin.
机舱。

(AHAB MOVIwNG TO GO ON DECK; PIP CATCHES HIM BY THE HAND TO FOLLOW.)
（亚哈准备走上甲板；皮普拉住他的手，让他跟上。）

Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is coming when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have thee by him. There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my malady. Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most desired health. Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee, as if thou wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own screwed chair; another screw to it, thou must be.’
小伙子，小伙子，我告诉你，你现在不能跟随亚哈。时候到了，亚哈不会吓唬你，但也不会让你在他身边。可怜的小伙子，你身上有这种东西，我觉得它对我的病太治愈了。就像治愈一样；为了这次狩猎，我的病变成了我最渴望的健康。你就住在下面吧，他们会在那里为你服务，就好像你是船长一样。是的，小伙子，你应该坐在我自己的螺丝椅上；又一个螺丝钉，你一定是。

‘No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for your one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain a part of ye.’
'不不不！先生，你没有完整的身体；难道你们只是用可怜的我来代替你们失去的一条腿吗？先生，只踩我；我不再要求更多，所以我仍然是你们的一部分。

‘Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless fidelity of man!—and a black! and crazy!—but methinks like-cures-like applies to him too; he grows so sane again.’
'哦！尽管有数以百万计的恶棍，但这让我成为了一个对人类永不褪色的忠诚的偏执者！——而且是一个黑人！而且疯狂！——但我认为类似治愈也适用于他；他又变得神志清醒了。”

‘They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whose drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin. But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go with ye.’
“他们告诉我，先生，斯塔布曾经抛弃过可怜的小皮普，他被淹死的骨头现在显出白色，尽管他活生生的皮肤是黑色的。但我永远不会像斯塔布那样抛弃你，先生。先生，我必须和你一起去。

‘If thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab’s purpose keels up in him. I tell thee no; it cannot be.’
“如果你再这样对我说话，亚哈的目的就在他身上了。我告诉你不；它不可能是。'

‘Oh good master, master, master!
‘噢，好的师父，师父，师父！

‘Weep so, and I will murder thee! have a care, for Ahab too is mad. Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and still know that I am there. And now I quit thee. Thy hand!—Met! True art thou, lad, as the circumference to its centre. So: God for ever bless thee; and if it come to that,—God for ever save thee, let what will befall.’
‘再哭，我就杀了你！小心一点，因为亚哈也很生气。听着，你会经常听到我的象牙足踏在甲板上，并且仍然知道我在那里。现在我离开你了。你的手！——遇见了！小伙子，你是真实的，就像圆周到中心一样。所以：愿上帝永远保佑你；如果事情真的发生了——愿上帝永远拯救你，让发生的事情发生吧。

(AHAB GOES; PIP STEPS ONE STEP FORWARD.)
（亚哈走了；皮普向前迈了一步。）

‘Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air,—but I’m alone. Now were even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he’s missing. Pip! Pip! Ding, dong, ding! Who’s seen Pip? He must be up here; let’s try the door. What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there’s no opening it. It must be the spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told me this screwed chair was mine. Here, then, I’ll seat me, against the transom, in the ship’s full middle, all her keel and her three masts before me. Here, our old sailors say, in their black seventy-fours great admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows of captains and lieutenants. Ha! what’s this? epaulets! epaulets! the epaulets all come crowding! Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye; fill up, monsieurs! What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy’s host to white men with gold lace upon their coats!—Monsieurs, have ye seen one Pip?—a little negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, and cowardly! Jumped from a whale-boat once;—seen him? No! Well then, fill up again, captains, and let’s drink shame upon all cowards! I name no names. Shame upon them! Put one foot upon the table. Shame upon all cowards.—Hist! above there, I hear ivory—Oh, master! master! I am indeed down-hearted when you walk over me. But here I’ll stay, though this stern strikes rocks; and they bulge through; and oysters come to join me.’
“他此刻就站在这里；我站在他的空中——但我孤独一人。现在即使是可怜的皮普在这里我也能忍受，但他失踪了。噗！噗！叮、咚、叮！谁见过皮普？他一定在上面；让我们试试门。什么？既不是锁，也不是插销，也不是杆；但还是打不开它。一定是咒语；他让我留在这里：是的，并告诉我这把螺丝椅子是我的。那么，我将坐在船的中部，靠着横梁，她的所有龙骨和三根桅杆都在我面前。我们的老水手们说，在这里，伟大的海军上将有时穿着黑色的七十四式战衣坐在餐桌旁，对一排排的船长和中尉发号施令。哈！这是什么？肩章！肩章！肩章都挤过来了！绕过醒酒器；很高兴见到你们；填满，先生们！现在，当一个黑人男孩接待外套上有金色蕾丝的白人时，感觉多么奇怪啊！——先生们，你们见过皮普吗？——一个黑人小伙子，五英尺高，看上去一副卑鄙的样子，胆小鬼！有一次从捕鲸船上跳下来；——见过他吗？不！那么，船长们，再加油吧，让我们为所有胆小鬼喝耻辱吧！我没有指名道姓。他们真丢脸！将一只脚放在桌子上。所有胆小鬼都感到羞耻。——希斯！在那上面，我听到象牙声——哦，主人！掌握！当你从我身上走过时，我确实很沮丧。但我会留在这里，尽管船尾触礁；它们凸出；牡蛎也来加入我的行列。”

Chapter 130
第130章

The Hat.
帽子。

And now that at the proper time and place, after so long and wide a preliminary cruise, Ahab,—all other whaling waters swept—seemed to have chased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more securely there; now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and longitude where his tormenting wound had been inflicted; now that a vessel had been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually encountered Moby Dick;—and now that all his successive meetings with various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned against; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man’s eyes, which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months’ night sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab’s purpose now fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. It domineered above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings, fears, were fain to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a single spear or leaf.
现在，在正确的时间和地点，经过如此长时间和广泛的初步巡航后，亚哈——所有其他捕鲸水域都席卷而来——似乎已经将他的敌人追入了海洋褶皱中，以便在那里更安全地杀死他；现在，他发现自己因遭受折磨的伤口所在的纬度和经度而变得坚硬。既然有人说有一艘船在前一天实际上遇到了莫比·迪克；——现在他与不同船只的所有连续会面都对比地一致地表明了白鲸撕扯他的猎人的恶魔般的冷漠，无论是有罪的还是有罪的反对;现在，老人的眼里潜藏着某种东西，对于软弱的灵魂来说是难以忍受的。就像那颗令人不安的北极星，在北极六个月的漫长夜晚中，维持着它锐利、稳定、中心的凝视；因此，亚哈的目的现在在那些忧郁的船员们的持续午夜里坚定地闪烁着光芒。它如此支配着他们，以至于他们所有的预兆、怀疑、疑虑、恐惧都想隐藏在他们的灵魂之下，没有长出一根矛或一片叶子。

In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural, vanished. Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more strove to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed ground to finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of Ahab’s iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about the deck, ever conscious that the old man’s despot eye was on them.
在这段预示的时间里，所有的幽默，无论是被迫的还是自然的，都消失了。斯塔布不再努力扬起笑容；星巴克不再费力去检查。同样，欢乐和悲伤，希望和恐惧，似乎都被磨成最细的灰尘，暂时在亚哈钢铁般的灵魂的砂浆中磨成粉末。他们像机器一样，呆呆地在甲板上走来走去，时刻意识到老人专横的目光正注视着他们。

But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when he thought no glance but one was on him; then you would have seen that even as Ahab’s eyes so awed the crew’s, the inscrutable Parsee’s glance awed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it. Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallah now; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked dubious at him; half uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a mortal substance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen being’s body. And that shadow was always hovering there. For not by night, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go below. He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan but wondrous eyes did plainly say—We two watchmen never rest.
但你是否在他更隐秘的保密时间内深入审视过他？当他以为没有人在看他的时候；那么你就会看到，正如亚哈的眼睛让船员们如此敬畏一样，高深莫测的帕西人的目光也令他敬畏。或者以某种方式，至少，有时以某种疯狂的方式影响它。现在，这种额外的、滑行的陌生感开始笼罩在瘦弱的费达拉身上。这种不断的颤抖使他颤抖。那些人用怀疑的眼神看着他；似乎有点不确定他是否确实是一个凡人，或者是某个看不见的生物的身体投在甲板上的颤抖的影子。而那个影子，始终徘徊在那里。因为甚至在晚上，人们都知道费达拉肯定不会睡觉，或者到下面去。他会一动不动地站几个小时：但从不坐下或倾斜；他那双苍白而奇妙的眼睛清楚地表明——我们两个守望者从不休息。

Nor, at any time, by night or day could the mariners now step upon the deck, unless Ahab was before them; either standing in his pivot-hole, or exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits,—the main-mast and the mizen; or else they saw him standing in the cabin-scuttle,—his living foot advanced upon the deck, as if to step; his hat slouched heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless he stood, however the days and nights were added on, that he had not swung in his hammock; yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, they could never tell unerringly whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at times; or whether he was still intently scanning them; no matter, though he stood so in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and the unheeded night-damp gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved coat and hat. The clothes that the night had wet, the next day’s sunshine dried upon him; and so, day after day, and night after night; he went no more beneath the planks; whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent for.
现在，水手们无论白天黑夜，任何时候都不能踏上甲板，除非亚哈在他们前面。要么站在他的枢轴孔中，要么精确地在两个不变的界限（主桅杆和后桅）之间的木板上移动；或者他们看到他站在舱窗里——他那只活生生的脚迈向甲板，仿佛要迈步；他的帽子沉重地遮住了眼睛。因此，无论他站着一动不动，无论日日夜夜如何流逝，他都没有在吊床上荡来荡去。然而，在那顶低垂的帽子下面，他们永远无法准确地判断出，尽管如此，他的眼睛有时是否真的闭着。或者他是否仍在全神贯注地扫描它们？不管怎样，尽管他在天窗里站了整整一个小时，夜里的湿气不经意间凝结成露珠，凝结在那件石雕外套和帽子上。一夜打湿的衣服，第二天的阳光就晒干了；就这样，日复一日，夜复一夜；他不再走到木板下面去了。无论他想要从小屋里得到什么，他都会派人去拿。

He ate in the same open air; that is, his two only meals,—breakfast and dinner: supper he never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly grew all gnarled, as unearthed roots of trees blown over, which still grow idly on at naked base, though perished in the upper verdure. But though his whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though the Parsee’s mystic watch was without intermission as his own; yet these two never seemed to speak—one man to the other—unless at long intervals some passing unmomentous matter made it necessary. Though such a potent spell seemed secretly to join the twain; openly, and to the awe-struck crew, they seemed pole-like asunder. If by day they chanced to speak one word; by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned the slightest verbal interchange. At times, for longest hours, without a single hail, they stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his scuttle, the Parsee by the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each other; as if in the Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab the Parsee his abandoned substance.
他在同样的露天吃饭；也就是说，他仅有的两顿饭——早餐和晚餐：晚餐他从未碰过；也没有收获他的胡须；那些黑乎乎的东西长得都粗糙了，就像被风吹倒的出土的树根一样，它们仍然在裸露的根部闲置地生长，尽管在上面的绿色中枯萎了。但尽管他的一生现在都变成了甲板上的一名值班人；尽管帕西人的神秘手表就像他自己的手表一样不间断；然而，这两个人似乎从来没有说话——一个人对另一个人——除非在很长一段时间内，有一些不重要的事情需要这样做。尽管如此强大的咒语似乎秘密地加入了两人之中；公开地，对于敬畏的船员来说，他们似乎像柱子一样被分开。如果白天他们碰巧说一句话；到了晚上，就最轻微的言语交流而言，两个人都是哑巴。有时，他们在星光下相距甚远，长达数小时之久，没有一丝冰雹。亚哈在他的舷窗里，帕西人在主桅上；但仍定定地注视着对方；仿佛在帕西人亚哈身上看到了他被抛弃的影子，在帕西人亚哈身上看到了他被遗弃的实体。

And yet, somehow, did Ahab—in his own proper self, as daily, hourly, and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,—Ahab seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again both seemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean shade siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and keel was solid Ahab.
然而，不知何故，亚哈——以他自己的身份，每天、每时、每刻，命令性地向他的下属透露——亚哈似乎是一个独立的君主；帕西人不过是他的奴隶。两人似乎再次被束缚在一起，有一个看不见的暴君在驱使着他们。坚固的肋骨上有瘦长的阴影。不管这个帕西人是谁，他所有的肋骨和龙骨都是坚固的亚哈。

At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard from aft,—‘Man the mast-heads!’—and all through the day, till after sunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the striking of the helmsman’s bell, was heard—‘What d’ye see?—sharp! sharp!’
当黎明的第一缕微弱的曙光出现时，船尾传来他钢铁般的声音——“桅杆顶！”——这一整天，直到日落之后和黄昏之后，每小时都有同样的声音，在钟声敲响时。舵手的铃声响起——“你看到了什么？——尖锐！”锋利的！'

But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting the children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac old man seemed distrustful of his crew’s fidelity; at least, of nearly all except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. But if these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from verbally expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.
但是，在遇见了正在寻找孩子的瑞秋之后，三四天就这样过去了。还没有看到喷水口；这位偏执的老人似乎对船员的忠诚不信任。至少，除了异教标枪手之外的几乎所有人；他甚至怀疑斯塔布和弗拉斯克是否不愿意忽视他所寻找的景象。但如果这些怀疑确实是他的，他就会明智地避免在口头上表达出来，无论他的行为似乎暗示着这些怀疑。

‘I will have the first sight of the whale myself,’—he said. ‘Aye! Ahab must have the doubloon! and with his own hands he rigged a nest of basketed bowlines; and sending a hand aloft, with a single sheaved block, to secure to the main-mast head, he received the two ends of the downward-reeved rope; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pin for the other end, in order to fasten it at the rail. This done, with that end yet in his hand and standing beside the pin, he looked round upon his crew, sweeping from one to the other; pausing his glance long upon Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning Fedallah; and then settling his firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said,—‘Take the rope, sir—I give it into thy hands, Starbuck.’ Then arranging his person in the basket, he gave the word for them to hoist him to his perch, Starbuck being the one who secured the rope at last; and afterwards stood near it. And thus, with one hand clinging round the royal mast, Ahab gazed abroad upon the sea for miles and miles,—ahead, astern, this side, and that,—within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height.
“我将亲眼目睹鲸鱼的第一眼，”他说。 ‘是啊！亚哈一定有达布隆！他亲手装好了一窝装在篮子里的鲍鱼。他伸出一只手，用一个滑轮将其固定在主桅杆头上，接住向下缠绕的绳索的两端；他把一个挂在篮子上，为另一端准备了一根别针，以便将其固定在栏杆上。完成后，他手里还拿着那一端，站在别针旁边，他环顾他的船员们，从一个扫到另一个。他的目光长时间停留在达古、魁魁格、塔什泰戈身上。但避开费达拉；然后他用坚定的目光注视着大副，说道：“拿走绳子，先生——我把它交到你手里了，斯塔巴克。”然后他把他的人放进篮子里，吩咐他们把他吊起来。他的栖息地，星巴克最终固定住了绳子；然后站在它附近。就这样，亚哈一只手紧握着皇家桅杆，凝视着远方的大海——前方、后方、这边、那边——在如此高的高度所控制的广阔的圆圈内。

When in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in the rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is hoisted up to that spot, and sustained there by the rope; under these circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given in strict charge to some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in such a wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations aloft cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at the deck; and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few minutes cast down from the fastenings, it would be but a natural fatality, if, unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor should by some carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swooping to the sea. So Ahab’s proceedings in this matter were not unusual; the only strange thing about them seemed to be, that Starbuck, almost the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with anything in the slightest degree approaching to decision—one of those too, whose faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat;—it was strange, that this was the very man he should select for his watchman; freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person’s hands.
当海上的水手在索具上某个几乎与世隔绝的高处进行双手作业时，该处可能没有立足点，海上的水手会被吊到那个地方，并用绳子支撑在那里。在这种情况下，它在甲板上的固定端总是由专门看管它的人严格负责。因为在运行索具的如此荒野中，它们在高空的各种不同关系并不总是能够通过在甲板上看到的情况准确无误地辨别出来；当这些绳索的甲板端每隔几分钟就从紧固件上掉下来时，如果没有一个不间断的看守人，被吊起的水手因船员的一些粗心而被抛在海上，那将是自然的死亡。全部坠入大海。因此，亚哈在这件事上的做法并不罕见。他们身上唯一奇怪的事情似乎是，星巴克，几乎是唯一一个敢于在任何接近决定的事情上反对他的人——也是那些人中的一个，他似乎对监视的忠诚有点怀疑；——奇怪的是，这正是他应该选择的人作为他的守望者；自由地将自己的一生交给这样一个原本不被信任的人手中。

Now, the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten minutes; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these latitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head in a maze of untrackably swift circlings. Then it darted a thousand feet straight up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and went eddying again round his head.
现在，亚哈第一次坐在高处；他到那儿还不到十分钟；一种凶猛的红嘴海鹰，在这些纬度地区，它们经常不方便地飞近捕鲸人操纵的桅杆头；其中一只鸟儿在他的头顶盘旋、尖叫，在迷宫般的快速盘旋中难以追踪。然后它笔直地飞向一千英尺高的空中；然后螺旋式下降，再次绕着他的头旋转。

But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed not to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked it much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every sight.
但亚哈的目光注视着昏暗而遥远的地平线，似乎没有注意到这只野鸟；事实上，其他人也不会对此做太多标记，因为这并不是什么不寻常的情况。只是现在，几乎每一个不留心的眼睛似乎都能在几乎每一个景象中看到某种狡猾的含义。

‘Your hat, your hat, sir!’ suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who being posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though somewhat lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing them.
“你的帽子，你的帽子，长官！”西西里水手突然喊道，他站在后桅杆头，直接站在亚哈身后，虽然比他的高度略低，但他们之间有一道深深的空气鸿沟。

But already the sable wing was before the old man’s eyes; the long hooked bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with his prize.
但黑貂的翅膀已经出现在老人的眼前了；长长的钩状喙抵住了他的头：伴随着一声尖叫，黑鹰带着他的战利品飞走了。

An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin’s head, removing his cap to replace it, and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would be king of Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen accounted good. Ahab’s hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and on with it; far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; while from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was dimly discerned, falling from that vast height into the sea.
一只老鹰绕着塔克文的头飞了三次，摘下了他的帽子，戴上了帽子，塔克文的妻子塔纳奎尔随即宣布塔克文将成为罗马国王。但只有更换帽子才是好兆头。亚哈的帽子再也没有归还。野鹰跟着它飞呀飞呀。远远领先于船头：最后消失了；而从那消失的地方，隐约可见一个微小的黑点，从那广阔的高处落入了大海之中。

Chapter 131
第131章

The Pequod Meets The Delight.
裴阔德遇见喜悦。

The intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the life-buoy-coffin still lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably misnamed the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were fixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some whaling-ships, cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or nine feet; serving to carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.
激烈的裴廓德号继续航行；波涛滚滚，日子一天天过去；救生圈棺材仍在轻轻摆动；另一艘船被描述为最悲惨的错误名称“欢乐号”。当她靠近时，所有的目光都集中在她被称为剪刀的宽阔横梁上，在一些捕鲸船上，横梁在八九英尺高的地方穿过尾甲板；用于运载备用、未装备或损坏的船只。

Upon the stranger’s shears were beheld the shattered, white ribs, and some few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but you now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled, half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.
在陌生人的剪刀上，可以看到曾经是捕鲸船的破碎的白色肋骨和一些破碎的木板；但你现在看透了这片残骸，就像你看透一匹剥皮、半精神错乱、漂白的马骨架一样。

‘Hast seen the White Whale?’
“看到白鲸了吗？”

‘Look!’ replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and with his trumpet he pointed to the wreck.
“看！”脸颊凹陷的船长在船尾栏杆上回答道。他用喇叭指向沉船。

‘Hast killed him?’
“杀了他吗？”

‘The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that,’ answered the other, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose gathered sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together.
“鱼叉还没有锻造出来，可以做到这一点，”另一个回答道，悲伤地瞥了一眼甲板上的圆形吊床，吊床的两侧聚集着一些安静的水手，正忙着缝合。

‘Not forged!’ and snatching Perth’s levelled iron from the crotch, Ahab held it out, exclaiming—‘Look ye, Nantucketer; here in this hand I hold his death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are these barbs; and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind the fin, where the White Whale most feels his accursed life!’
“不是锻造的！”亚哈从裤裆里抓起珀斯的平整铁器，把它举起来，喊道——“看，楠塔基特；我手里握着他的死亡！这些倒钩经过鲜血和闪电的锤炼；我发誓要在鳍后面那个炎热的地方对它们进行三倍的锻炼，那里是白鲸最能感受到他被诅咒的生命的地方！

‘Then God keep thee, old man—see’st thou that’—pointing to the hammock—‘I bury but one of five stout men, who were alive only yesterday; but were dead ere night. Only THAT one I bury; the rest were buried before they died; you sail upon their tomb.’ Then turning to his crew—‘Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and lift the body; so, then—Oh! God’—advancing towards the hammock with uplifted hands—‘may the resurrection and the life—’
“那么上帝保佑你，老人——你瞧，”——指着吊床——“我埋葬的只是五个壮汉中的一个，他们昨天才还活着；现在我已经埋葬了他们。”但到了晚上就死了。我只埋葬那个人；其余的人在去世前都被埋葬了。 ’然后转向他的船员们——‘你们准备好了吗？然后将木板放在导轨上，并将车身抬起；那么，那么——哦！上帝”——举起双手走向吊床——“愿复活和生命——”

‘Brace forward! Up helm!’ cried Ahab like lightning to his men.
‘挺身而出！掌舵！”亚哈闪电般地向他的部下喊道。

But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the sound of the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not so quick, indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled her hull with their ghostly baptism.
但突然启动的“裴阔德”号却来不及躲避尸体撞击大海时发出的溅水声；确实，没那么快，但一些飞舞的气泡可能已经用幽灵般的洗礼洒在了她的船体上。

As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the strange life-buoy hanging at the Pequod’s stern came into conspicuous relief.
当亚哈从沮丧的喜悦号上滑行时，悬挂在“佩阔德”号船尾的奇怪救生圈显露出来。

‘Ha! yonder! look yonder, men!’ cried a foreboding voice in her wake. ‘In vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us your taffrail to show us your coffin!’
'哈！那边！ “看那边，伙计们！”她身后传来一个不祥的声音。 ‘哦，你们这些陌生人，你们徒劳地逃离我们悲伤的葬礼；请将你的船尾栏杆转向我们，让我们看看你的棺材！

Chapter 132
第132章

The Symphony.
交响曲。

It was a clear steel-blue day. The firmaments of air and sea were hardly separable in that all-pervading azure; only, the pensive air was transparently pure and soft, with a woman’s look, and the robust and man-like sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells, as Samson’s chest in his sleep.
这是一个晴朗的钢蓝色的日子。在那片无所不在的蔚蓝之中，天空和海洋几乎是不可分割的。只是，沉思的空气透明地纯净而柔和，有女人的样子，而汹涌而男人般的大海则起伏着长长的、强烈的、挥之不去的波涛，就像参孙睡梦中的胸膛一样。

Hither, and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small, unspeckled birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air; but to and fro in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed mighty leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong, troubled, murderous thinkings of the masculine sea.
高空中，无斑点的小鸟雪白的翅膀在这儿、那儿滑翔。这些都是女性气质中的温柔想法；但在深海深处，在无底的蓝色深处，强大的利维坦、剑鱼和鲨鱼来来往往。这些就是男性海洋中强烈的、不安的、凶残的想法。

But though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades and shadows without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were, that distinguished them.
尽管内部如此形成对比，但这种对比仅存在于外部的色调和阴影中。这两个人似乎是一体的；可以说，只有性别使他们与众不同。

Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle air to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at the girdling line of the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion—most seen here at the Equator—denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the loving alarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom away.
在高处，太阳就像一位沙皇和国王，似乎给这片汹涌澎湃的大海带来了温柔的气息。即使作为新娘到新郎。在地平线的环绕线上，一种柔和而颤抖的运动——在赤道上最常见——代表着深情的、悸动的信任，充满爱意的警报，可怜的新娘用它放弃了她的胸部。

Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the ashes of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the morn; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl’s forehead of heaven.
被捆绑、扭曲；多节且布满皱纹；憔悴坚毅；他的眼睛像煤炭一样闪闪发光，在废墟的灰烬中仍然闪闪发光；清晨，亚哈神色坚定地站在那儿。将他破碎的眉毛头盔举到天堂美丽女孩的额头上。

Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible winged creatures that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! how oblivious were ye of old Ahab’s close-coiled woe! But so have I seen little Miriam and Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around their old sire; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on the marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain.
哦，不朽的婴儿期，天真无邪的蔚蓝！隐形翅膀的生物在我们周围嬉戏！空气和天空的甜蜜童年！你们对老亚哈的痛苦是多么无知啊！但我也见过小米丽亚姆和玛莎，笑眼的精灵，漫不经心地围着他们的老父亲嬉戏。他玩弄着一圈烧焦的发绺，这些发绺生长在他大脑烧毁的火山口边缘。

Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the side and watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the more and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But the lovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a moment, the cankerous thing in his soul. That glad, happy air, that winsome sky, did at last stroke and caress him; the step-mother world, so long cruel—forbidding—now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn neck, and did seem to joyously sob over him, as if over one, that however wilful and erring, she could yet find it in her heart to save and to bless. From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into the sea; nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee drop.
亚哈慢慢地从舷窗上穿过甲板，靠在船舷上，看着他在水中的影子如何下沉，然后沉入他的视线，他越来越努力地刺穿深处。但那迷人空气中的可爱香气似乎终于暂时驱散了他灵魂中的腐烂之物。那快乐、幸福的空气，那迷人的天空，终于抚摸着他了。继母的世界，如此长久以来的残酷——禁止——现在用深情的双臂搂住他顽固的脖子，似乎确实在为他而高兴地哭泣，仿佛为一个人哭泣，无论她多么任性和错误，她仍然可以在心里发现拯救并祝福。亚哈从他那低垂的帽子下面，一滴眼泪滴进了大海。整个太平洋也没有像那一滴水那么丰富。

Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side; and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing that stole out of the centre of the serenity around. Careful not to touch him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood there.
斯塔巴克看到了老人；看见他，看见他重重地靠在一边；他似乎听到了自己内心深处从周围宁静的中心偷偷传来的无边的抽泣声。他小心翼翼地不碰他，也不被他注意到，但还是靠近了他，站在那里。

Ahab turned.
亚哈转过身来。

‘Starbuck!’
“星巴克！”

‘Sir.’
'先生。'

‘Oh, Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky. On such a day—very much such a sweetness as this—I struck my first whale—a boy-harpooneer of eighteen! Forty—forty—forty years ago!—ago! Forty years of continual whaling! forty years of privation, and peril, and storm-time! forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahab forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors of the deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not spent three ashore. When I think of this life I have led; the desolation of solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a Captain’s exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the green country without—oh, weariness! heaviness! Guinea-coast slavery of solitary command!—when I think of all this; only half-suspected, not so keenly known to me before—and how for forty years I have fed upon dry salted fare—fit emblem of the dry nourishment of my soil!—when the poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily hand, and broken the world’s fresh bread to my mouldy crusts—away, whole oceans away, from that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and sailed for Cape Horn the next day, leaving but one dent in my marriage pillow—wife? wife?—rather a widow with her husband alive! Aye, I widowed that poor girl when I married her, Starbuck; and then, the madness, the frenzy, the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with which, for a thousand lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foamingly chased his prey—more a demon than a man!—aye, aye! what a forty years’ fool—fool—old fool, has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the chase? why weary, and palsy the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance? how the richer or better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it not hard, that with this weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been snatched from under me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me, that I seem to weep. Locks so grey did never grow but from out some ashes! But do I look very old, so very, very old, Starbuck? I feel deadly faint, bowed, and humped, as though I were Adam, staggering beneath the piled centuries since Paradise. God! God! God!—crack my heart!—stave my brain!—mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey hairs, have I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus intolerably old? Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a human eye; it is better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than to gaze upon God. By the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is the magic glass, man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no; stay on board, on board!—lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives chase to Moby Dick. That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with the far away home I see in that eye!’
‘哦，星巴克！风很温和，天空看起来也很温和。在这样的一天——非常甜蜜的一天——我击中了我的第一条鲸鱼——一个十八岁的男孩鱼叉手！四十——四十——四十年前！——以前！四十年持续捕鲸！四十年的贫困、危险和暴风雨！在无情的大海上漂泊了四十年！四十年来，亚哈放弃了和平的土地，四十年来向深海的恐怖发动战争！是的，是的，星巴克，在这四十年里我没有在岸上度过三年。当我想到我所过的这一生；孤独的荒凉；这是一座由砖石砌成、围墙环绕的小镇，体现了船长的排他性，它只允许微不足道的机会获得来自绿色乡村的同情，而不会——哦，疲倦！沉重！几内亚海岸的孤军奴役！——当我想到这一切时；只是半信半疑，我以前不太清楚——四十年来我是如何以干盐食物为食的——这正是我的土壤干燥营养的象征！——当最贫穷的土地居民每天手里都有新鲜水果时，把世界上的新鲜面包打碎到我发霉的面包皮上——远离我五十多岁的年轻女妻，隔着整个海洋，第二天就航行到合恩角，在我的结婚枕头上只留下一个凹痕——妻子？妻子？——不如说是一个丈夫还活着的寡妇！是的，当我娶那个可怜的女孩时，我就让她成为了寡妇，星巴克；然后，疯狂、狂乱、沸腾的血液和冒烟的额头，老亚哈用这些手段，千百次地俯身，疯狂地、满嘴白沫地追逐他的猎物——与其说是一个人，不如说是一个恶魔！——是的，是的！老亚哈真是一个四十岁的傻瓜——傻瓜——老傻瓜！为什么会发生这样的追逐冲突？为什么要使桨臂、铁杆和长矛疲倦无力呢？亚哈现在变得更富有或更好了吗？看哪。哦，星巴克！ 我承受着如此疲惫的负担，一条可怜的腿应该从我身下被夺走，这不是很难吗？在这里，把这根旧头发拨开；这让我眼花缭乱，我似乎在哭泣。如此灰色的头发从来都不是长出来的，而是从一些灰烬中长出来的！但我看起来是不是很老，非常非常老，星巴克？我感到极度的虚弱、弓背和驼背，就好像我是亚当，在天堂以来堆积如山的几个世纪之下摇摇晃晃地行走。上帝！上帝！天啊！——破碎我的心！——砍掉我的大脑！——嘲讽！嘲讽！对白发的苦涩、刺骨的嘲笑，我已经活得足够快乐了，可以穿上你们的衣服吗？看起来和感觉都那么老得难以忍受？关闭！星巴克，站得靠近我；让我看看人眼；这比凝视大海或天空更好；比仰望神更好。绿地旁；在明亮的炉石旁！这是魔法玻璃，伙计；我在你的眼中看到了我的妻子和我的孩子。不，不;留在船上，在船上！——当我这样做时不要降低；当亚哈被打上烙印时，他开始追逐莫比迪克。那个危险不应该是你的。不，不！不是我那双眼睛里看到的遥远的家！’

‘Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all! why should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let us fly these deadly waters! let us home! Wife and child, too, are Starbuck’s—wife and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellow youth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving, longing, paternal old age! Away! let us away!—this instant let me alter the course! How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl on our way to see old Nantucket again! I think, sir, they have some such mild blue days, even as this, in Nantucket.’
‘噢，我的船长！我的船长！高贵的灵魂！毕竟，伟大的老心！为什么有人要追逐那条令人讨厌的鱼呢！跟我走开！让我们飞过这片致命的水域吧！让我们回家吧！妻子和孩子也是星巴克的——他的兄弟、姐妹、玩伴青年的妻子和孩子；先生，就像您的妻子和孩子一样，是您慈爱、渴望、慈父晚年的妻子和孩子！离开！让我们走吧！——就在这一刻，让我改变航向！哦，我的船长，如果我们在再次见到老楠塔基特岛的路上打保龄球，那该是多么高兴啊，多么热闹啊！我想，先生，他们在楠塔基特岛度过了一些如此温和的蓝色日子，即使是这样。”

‘They have, they have. I have seen them—some summer days in the morning. About this time—yes, it is his noon nap now—the boy vivaciously wakes; sits up in bed; and his mother tells him of me, of cannibal old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come back to dance him again.’
‘他们有，他们有。我见过他们——有些夏日的早晨。大约在这个时候——是的，现在是他的午睡时间——男孩活泼地醒了。从床上坐起来；他的母亲向他讲述了我，一个食人老我；我是多么地身处深渊，但仍会回来与他共舞。”

‘‘Tis my Mary, my Mary herself! She promised that my boy, every morning, should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of his father’s sail! Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head for Nantucket! Come, my Captain, study out the course, and let us away! See, see! the boy’s face from the window! the boy’s hand on the hill!’
“这是我的玛丽，我的玛丽本人！”她答应我的孩子，每天早上，都会被带到山上，第一次看到他父亲的帆！是的是的！不再！完成了！我们前往楠塔基特岛！来吧，我的船长，研究一下航线，然后让我们走吧！瞧，瞧！窗外男孩的脸！男孩的手在山上！”

But Ahab’s glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he shook, and cast his last, cindered apple to the soil.
但亚哈却移开了目光。他像一棵枯萎的果树一样摇晃着，把最后一个烧焦的苹果扔到了地上。

‘What is it, what nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what cozening, hidden lord and master, and cruel, remorseless emperor commands me; that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keep pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on all the time; recklessly making me ready to do what in my own proper, natural heart, I durst not so much as dare? Is Ahab, Ahab? Is it I, God, or who, that lifts this arm? But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an errand-boy in heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisible power; how then can this one small heart beat; this one small brain think thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, does that living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in this world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike. And all the time, lo! that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea! Look! see yon Albicore! who put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish? Where do murderers go, man! Who’s to doom, when the judge himself is dragged to the bar? But it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and the air smells now, as if it blew from a far-away meadow; they have been making hay somewhere under the slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, and the mowers are sleeping among the new-mown hay. Sleeping? Aye, toil we how we may, we all sleep at last on the field. Sleep? Aye, and rust amid greenness; as last year’s scythes flung down, and left in the half-cut swaths—Starbuck!’
‘这是什么，是什么无名的、难以理解的、超凡脱俗的东西；多么狡诈、隐秘的领主和主宰，以及残酷、无情的皇帝在命令我？与所有自然的爱和渴望相反，我总是不断地推动、拥挤、塞满自己；鲁莽地让我准备好做我本性中不敢做的事？是亚哈，亚哈吗？举起这只手臂的是我、上帝还是谁？但如果大太阳不自行移动；只不过是天堂里的一个跑腿的；如果没有某种无形的力量，任何一颗恒星都无法旋转；那么，这一颗小小的心脏怎么能跳动呢？这一颗小脑袋想的心思；除非上帝进行那种打击，进行那种思考，进行那种生活，而不是我。天啊，人，我们在这个世界上转来转去，就像那边的卷扬机一样，而命运就是推杆。一直以来，瞧！那微笑的天空，这静谧的大海！看！见你的阿尔比科雷！是谁让他去追逐并用尖牙攻击那条飞鱼的？杀人犯去哪儿了，伙计！当法官本人被拖到酒吧时，谁该承受厄运？但风很温和，天空看起来也很温和；空气中弥漫着一股臭味，仿佛是从遥远的草地吹来的。他们一直在安第斯山脉山坡下的某个地方干草，星巴克，割草机正在新割的干草中睡觉。睡眠？是的，我们尽了最大的努力，最后我们都睡在了田野上。睡觉？是的，绿色中生锈；当去年的镰刀落下时，留下了半切的大片——星巴克！

But blanched to a corpse’s hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.
但大副绝望地脸色惨白，偷偷溜走了。

Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started at two reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlessly leaning over the same rail.
亚哈穿过甲板，凝视着另一边。但看到水中有两只倒影固定的眼睛，我就吃了一惊。费达拉一动不动地靠在同一条栏杆上。

Chapter 133
第133章

The Chase—First Day.
追逐——第一天。

That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man—as his wont at intervals—stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and went to his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffing up the sea air as a sagacious ship’s dog will, in drawing nigh to some barbarous isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon that peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the living sperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane, and then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible, Ahab rapidly ordered the ship’s course to be slightly altered, and the sail to be shortened.
那天晚上，半更时分，当老人像往常一样，从他靠着的天窗中走出来，走向他的枢轴孔时，他突然猛烈地伸出脸来，把海水吞没了。空气就像一只聪明的船上的狗在接近某个野蛮的岛屿时所做的那样。他宣称鲸鱼一定就在附近。很快，所有值班人员都能感受到那种奇特的气味，有时是活抹香鲸发出的很远的气味。在检查了罗盘、风向标，然后尽可能准确地确定了气味的方位后，亚哈迅速命令稍微改变船的航向，并缩短帆的长度，这让任何水手都不会感到惊讶。 。

The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.
黎明时分，在海上直接纵向地看到一条长长的波浪线，光滑如油，就像在其边界上褶皱的水纹一样，是一些快速航行的抛光的金属状痕迹，这充分证明了决定这些行动的敏锐政策是正确的。潮汐裂口，位于一条深而急流的河口。

‘Man the mast-heads! Call all hands!’
‘伙计们，桅杆头！召集全体人员！

Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle deck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they seemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appear with their clothes in their hands.
达古在艏楼甲板上用三根棒状的手矛的枪托发出雷鸣般的声音，用判断力的掌声惊醒了沉睡的人，他们似乎从天窗里呼出了一口气，立刻就出现了，手里拿着衣服。

‘What d’ye see?’ cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky.
“你看到了什么？”亚哈喊道，脸朝天。

‘Nothing, nothing sir!’ was the sound hailing down in reply.
“没什么，没什么，先生！”那声音回答道。

‘T’gallant sails!—stunsails! alow and aloft, and on both sides!’
“T”勇敢的帆！——stunsails！低空、高空、两侧！”

All sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for swaying him to the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were hoisting him thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft, and while peering ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the main-top-sail and top-gallant-sail, he raised a gull-like cry in the air. ‘There she blows!—there she blows! A hump like a snow-hill! It is Moby Dick!’
所有的帆都已挂好，他现在松开了救生索，这是为把他摇到主桅杆头而保留的。过了一会儿，他们把他吊到了那里，当时，当他还升到三分之二的高度时，当他透过主中帆和上帆之间的水平空位向前方凝视时，他升起了一张像海鸥一样的帆。在空气中哭泣。 “她吹在那里！——她吹在那里！”像雪山一样的驼峰！这是莫比迪克！

Fired by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the three look-outs, the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous whale they had so long been pursuing. Ahab had now gained his final perch, some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego standing just beneath him on the cap of the top-gallant-mast, so that the Indian’s head was almost on a level with Ahab’s heel. From this height the whale was now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing his high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into the air. To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they had so long ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
三个瞭望员似乎同时听到了喊叫声，甲板上的人们冲向索具，想看看他们一直在追捕的那条著名的鲸鱼。亚哈现在已经获得了他最后的栖息地，比其他瞭望员高出几英尺，塔什特戈就站在他下面的上桅杆上，这样印第安人的头几乎与亚哈的脚后跟在同一水平线上。从这个高度，现在可以在前方几英里左右的地方看到鲸鱼，海面的每一次翻滚都会露出它高高闪闪发光的驼峰，并定期将它无声的喷水喷射到空中。对于那些轻信的水手来说，这似乎是他们很久以前在月光下的大西洋和印度洋上看到的同一个无声的喷流。

‘And did none of ye see it before?’ cried Ahab, hailing the perched men all around him.
“你们以前没有人看到过吗？”亚哈大声喊道，并向坐在他周围的人们欢呼。

‘I saw him almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I cried out,’ said Tashtego.
“我几乎在亚哈船长看到他的同时，先生，我就哭了，”塔什特戈说。

‘Not the same instant; not the same—no, the doubloon is mine, Fate reserved the doubloon for me. I only; none of ye could have raised the White Whale first. There she blows!—there she blows!—there she blows! There again!—there again!’ he cried, in long-drawn, lingering, methodic tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale’s visible jets. ‘He’s going to sound! In stunsails! Down top-gallant-sails! Stand by three boats. Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship. Helm there! Luff, luff a point! So; steady, man, steady! There go flukes! No, no; only black water! All ready the boats there? Stand by, stand by! Lower me, Mr. Starbuck; lower, lower,—quick, quicker!’ and he slid through the air to the deck.
‘不是同一时刻；不一样——不，达布隆是我的，命运为我保留了达布隆。我只是;你们谁也无法先养起白鲸。她吹在那里！——她吹在那里！——她吹在那里！又来了！——又来了！”他用拖长的、挥之不去的、有条不紊的语气喊道，与鲸鱼可见喷流的逐渐延长相协调。 ‘他要发出声音了！在晕船！扬帆起航！站在三艘船旁边。斯塔巴克先生，记住，留在船上，守住这艘船。掌舵在那里！拉夫，拉夫一分！所以;稳住，伙计，稳住！侥幸发生！不，不;只有黑水！那里的船都准备好了吗？站着，站着！降下我，斯塔巴克先生；更低，更低，——快点，快点！”然后他在空中滑向甲板。

‘He is heading straight to leeward, sir,’ cried Stubb, ‘right away from us; cannot have seen the ship yet.’
“他正在直接朝下风方向前进，长官，”斯塔布喊道，“就在我们身边；还不能看到那艘船。”

‘Be dumb, man! Stand by the braces! Hard down the helm!—brace up! Shiver her!—shiver her!—So; well that! Boats, boats!’
‘别傻了，伙计！站在牙套旁边！坚定地掌舵！——振作起来！颤抖她！——颤抖她！——所以；好吧！船，船！’

Soon all the boats but Starbuck’s were dropped; all the boat-sails set—all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to leeward; and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up Fedallah’s sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.
很快，除了星巴克的船之外，所有的船都被放弃了。所有的船帆都已扬起——所有的桨都在划动；以涟漪般的速度，向下风方向射去；亚哈率先发起进攻。费达拉凹陷的眼睛里闪现出苍白的死亡之光。一个可怕的动作咬住了他的嘴。

Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea; but only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grew still more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a noon-meadow, so serenely it spread. At length the breathless hunter came so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling hump was distinctly visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated thing, and continually set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy, greenish foam. He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head beyond. Before it, far out on the soft Turkish-rugged waters, went the glistening white shadow from his broad, milky forehead, a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade; and behind, the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley of his steady wake; and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his side. But these were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl softly feathering the sea, alternate with their fitful flight; and like to some flag-staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but shattered pole of a recent lance projected from the white whale’s back; and at intervals one of the cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and to and fro skimming like a canopy over the fish, silently perched and rocked on this pole, the long tail feathers streaming like pennons.
如同无声的鹦鹉螺贝壳，它们轻盈的船头在大海中疾驰。但他们只是慢慢地接近敌人。当他们靠近他时，大海变得更加平静。似乎在波浪上铺了一张地毯；仿佛正午的草地，它如此平静地展开。最后，这位气喘吁吁的猎人离他看似毫无戒心的猎物如此之近，以至于他整个令人眼花缭乱的驼峰都清晰可见，就像一个孤立的东西一样沿着大海滑行，并不断地陷入一圈由最细的、蓬松的、绿色的泡沫组成的旋转环中。他看到远处微微突出的脑袋上有巨大的、复杂的皱纹。在它前面，远处柔软的土耳其波涛汹涌的水面上，闪闪发光的白色影子从他宽阔、乳白色的前额上消失了，伴随着影子嬉戏地奏出音乐般的涟漪；在后面，蓝色的海水交替地流入他稳定的尾迹移动的山谷中。两只手上都有明亮的气泡升起，在他身边翩翩起舞。但这些又被数百只欢快的鸟儿轻柔的脚趾打破，它们轻柔地在海面上飞翔，时而断断续续地飞翔。就像从商船的彩绘船体上升起的一些旗杆一样，一根新长矛的高大但破碎的杆子从白鲸的背上伸出来；每隔一段时间，一群软趾鸟就会盘旋，像天篷一样在鱼身上来回掠过，静静地栖息在这根杆子上，摇晃着，长长的尾羽像三角旗一样飘扬。

A gentle joyousness—a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested the gliding whale. Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away with ravished Europa clinging to his graceful horns; his lovely, leering eyes sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth bewitching fleetness, rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that great majesty Supreme! did surpass the glorified White Whale as he so divinely swam.
滑翔的鲸鱼身上充满了一种温柔的喜悦——一种在快速中休息的强大温和。不是白色的公牛朱庇特游走，被迷惑的欧罗巴紧紧抓住它优雅的角；他那双可爱的、斜视的眼睛专注地看着女仆。带着平稳、迷人的快速，径直荡漾到克里特岛的新婚凉亭；不是朱庇特，不是那位伟大的至尊陛下！确实超越了荣耀的白鲸，因为他游得如此神圣。

On each soft side—coincident with the parted swell, that but once leaving him, then flowed so wide away—on each bright side, the whale shed off enticings. No wonder there had been some among the hunters who namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured to assail it; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of tornadoes. Yet calm, enticing calm, oh, whale! thou glidest on, to all who for the first time eye thee, no matter how many in that same way thou may’st have bejuggled and destroyed before.
在每一个柔软的侧面——与分开的波浪重合，一旦离开他，然后就流得如此之远——在每一个明亮的侧面，鲸鱼都散发着诱惑。难怪猎人中有些人无名地被这一切宁静所吸引和吸引，敢于攻击它；但他却致命地发现，那片宁静却披着龙卷风的外衣。然而平静，迷人的平静，哦，鲸鱼！你向所有第一次看到你的人滑行，无论你以前以同样的方式欺骗​​和摧毁了多少人。

And thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea, among waves whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, Moby Dick moved on, still withholding from sight the full terrors of his submerged trunk, entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw. But soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for an instant his whole marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia’s Natural Bridge, and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air, the grand god revealed himself, sounded, and went out of sight. Hoveringly halting, and dipping on the wing, the white sea-fowls longingly lingered over the agitated pool that he left.
就这样，在热带海洋的宁静中，莫比·迪克继续前行，在波涛汹涌的波浪中，莫比·迪克继续前行，仍然没有看到他淹没在水中的树干的全部恐怖，完全隐藏了他下巴扭曲的丑陋。但很快他的前半部分就慢慢地从水中升起。一瞬间，他整个大理石般的身体形成了一个高高的拱门，就像弗吉尼亚的天然桥一样，在空中警告地挥舞着他的旗帜尾翼，这位伟大的神显露出了自己，发出了声音，然后消失在视线中。白色的海鸟盘旋着，翅膀垂下，渴望地在他离开的搅动的水池上空徘徊。

With oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails adrift, the three boats now stilly floated, awaiting Moby Dick’s reappearance.
船桨升起，桨落下，帆片随波逐流，三艘船现在静止地漂浮着，等待着莫比·迪克的再次出现。

‘An hour,’ said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat’s stern; and he gazed beyond the whale’s place, towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooing vacancies to leeward. It was only an instant; for again his eyes seemed whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle. The breeze now freshened; the sea began to swell.
“一个小时，”亚哈站在船尾说道。他的目光越过鲸鱼所在的地方，望向暗蓝色的空间和下风处广阔的空位。这只是一瞬间的事情；当他扫过水汪汪的圆圈时，他的眼睛似乎又在脑海中旋转。现在微风变得清新了；海面开始膨胀。

‘The birds!—the birds!’ cried Tashtego.
“鸟儿！——鸟儿！”塔什特戈喊道。

In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds were now all flying towards Ahab’s boat; and when within a few yards began fluttering over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous, expectant cries. Their vision was keener than man’s; Ahab could discover no sign in the sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down into its depths, he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a white weasel, with wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it rose, till it turned, and then there were plainly revealed two long crooked rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from the undiscoverable bottom. It was Moby Dick’s open mouth and scrolled jaw; his vast, shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea. The glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble tomb; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled the craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon Fedallah to change places with him, went forward to the bows, and seizing Perth’s harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars and stand by to stern.
印第安人排成长队，就像苍鹭展翅时一样，白色的鸟儿现在全都飞向亚哈的船。就在几码远的地方，它们开始在水面上扑腾起来，一圈又一圈地转着，伴随着欢乐和期待的叫声。他们的视野比人类更敏锐。亚哈在海里找不到任何迹象。但突然，当他往下看去，往深处看去时，他深深地看到一个白色的活斑，只有一只白黄鼠狼那么大，以奇妙的速度升起，并随着升起而放大，直到它转动起来，然后清晰地露出了两条长长的弯曲。一排排白色、闪闪发光的牙齿，从难以发现的底部浮起。那是莫比·迪克张开的嘴和卷起的下巴；他巨大的、被阴影笼罩的身体仍然与蓝色的大海融为一体。闪闪发光的嘴在船下张开，就像一座敞开的大理石坟墓。亚哈用他的舵桨向一侧扫动，将船旋转到远离这个巨大幽灵的地方。然后，请费达拉与他交换位置，走到船头，抓住珀斯的鱼叉，命令他的船员抓住桨，站在船尾。

Now, by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis, its bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale’s head while yet under water. But as if perceiving this stratagem, Moby Dick, with that malicious intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplanted himself, as it were, in an instant, shooting his pleated head lengthwise beneath the boat.
现在，由于船在其轴上及时旋转，船头在水下时按预期面向鲸鱼的头部。但是，莫比·迪克仿佛察觉到了这个计策，带着恶意的智慧，瞬间侧身移动，将他那褶皱的头纵向伸到了船下。

Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled for an instant, the whale obliquely lying on his back, in the manner of a biting shark, slowly and feelingly taking its bows full within his mouth, so that the long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw curled high up into the open air, and one of the teeth caught in a row-lock. The bluish pearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab’s head, and reached higher than that. In this attitude the White Whale now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse. With unastonished eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but the tiger-yellow crew were tumbling over each other’s heads to gain the uttermost stern.
彻头彻尾;透过每一块木板和每一根肋骨，它都颤抖了一瞬间，鲸鱼斜躺着，像一条咬人的鲨鱼，慢慢地、深情地把它的弓完全含在嘴里，这样，狭长的、卷曲的下颌就被咬住了。高高地卷曲到露天，其中一颗牙齿被行锁卡住了。蓝色珍珠白色的下颌内侧距离亚哈的头不到六英寸，而且比那还要高。以这种态度，白鲸现在摇晃着那棵瘦弱的雪松，就像一只有点残忍的猫摇晃着老鼠一样。费达拉用平静的眼睛凝视着，然后交叉双臂。但虎黄色的船员们却在互相翻滚，以获得最严重的船尾。

And now, while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as the whale dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his body being submerged beneath the boat, he could not be darted at from the bows, for the bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and while the other boats involuntarily paused, as before a quick crisis impossible to withstand, then it was that monomaniac Ahab, furious with this tantalizing vicinity of his foe, which placed him all alive and helpless in the very jaws he hated; frenzied with all this, he seized the long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to wrench it from its gripe. As now he thus vainly strove, the jaw slipped from him; the frail gunwales bent in, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws, like an enormous shears, sliding further aft, bit the craft completely in twain, and locked themselves fast again in the sea, midway between the two floating wrecks. These floated aside, the broken ends drooping, the crew at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales, and striving to hold fast to the oars to lash them across.
现在，当鲸鱼以这种邪恶的方式玩弄这艘注定要失败的飞船时，两条弹性舷缘都在弹进弹出；由于他的身体淹没在船下，因此无法从船头冲向他，因为船头几乎在他的体内。当其他船只不自觉地停下来时，就像之前一场无法承受的快速危机一样，那是偏执狂亚哈，对他的敌人的这种诱人的接近感到愤怒，这让他活着，无助地陷入了他所憎恶的嘴里。他对这一切感到疯狂，用赤手抓住那根长骨头，疯狂地想把它从手中挣脱出来。现在他徒劳地挣扎，下巴从他身上滑落了。脆弱的船舷弯曲、倒塌、折断，双颚像一把巨大的剪刀，进一步向船尾滑动，将船完全咬成两半，并再次牢牢地锁在海里，位于两艘漂浮的残骸中间。它们漂到一边，断头下垂，船尾沉船的船员们紧紧抓住船舷，努力抓住船桨，将它们猛击过去。

At that preluding moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the first to perceive the whale’s intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a movement that loosed his hold for the time; at that moment his hand had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite. But only slipping further into the whale’s mouth, and tilting over sideways as it slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw; spilled him out of it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell flat-faced upon the sea.
就在船被折断之前的那一刻，亚哈第一个察觉到了鲸鱼的意图，他狡猾地抬起头，这一动作暂时松开了他的手。就在那一刻，他的手做出了最后的努力，将船推出了咬口。但船只是进一步滑入鲸鱼的嘴里，并且在滑落时向侧面倾斜，船就摆脱了他对下巴的控制；当他靠在推力上时，他被从里面摔了出来。于是他面朝大海倒在了地上。

Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now lay at a little distance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the billows; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body; so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose—some twenty or more feet out of the water—the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves, dazzlingly broke against it; vindictively tossing their shivered spray still higher into the air.* So, in a gale, the but half baffled Channel billows only recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly to overleap its summit with their scud.
莫比·迪克以涟漪般的速度从猎物身边撤退，此时，它躺在不远的地方，长方形的白色脑袋在波涛中垂直地上下摆动。同时缓慢地旋转着整个纺锤形的身体；因此，当他布满皱纹的宽阔额头升起时——露出水面大约二十英尺或更多——此时正在上升的海浪，连同所有汇合的波浪，令人眼花缭乱地冲撞着它。报复性地把它们颤抖的水花抛向更高的空中。*因此，在大风中，一半受阻的英吉利海峡只是从涡石底部反冲，胜利地带着它们的飞毛腿越过了它的顶峰。

*This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its designation (pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary up-and-down poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously described. By this motion the whale must best and most comprehensively view whatever objects may be encircling him.
*这种运动是抹香鲸特有的。它之所以被称为“pitchpoling”，是因为它被比作鲸枪的初步上下平衡，在前面描述的称为“pitchpoling”的练习中。通过这种运动，鲸鱼必须最好、最全面地观察周围可能存在的任何物体。

But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam swiftly round and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengeful wake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly assault. The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus’s elephants in the book of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale’s insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,—though he could still keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that; helpless Ahab’s head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock might burst. From the boat’s fragmentary stern, Fedallah incuriously and mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not succor him; more than enough was it for them to look to themselves. For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale’s aspect, and so planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that he seemed horizontally swooping upon them. And though the other boats, unharmed, still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into the eddy to strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of the jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that case could they themselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, then, they remained on the outer edge of the direful zone, whose centre had now become the old man’s head.
但很快，莫比·迪克又恢复了水平姿态，迅速地绕着失事的船员游了一圈又一圈。在他复仇的尾迹中，他侧身搅动着海水，仿佛在鞭策自己进行另一次更致命的攻击。看到破碎的船似乎让他发疯，就像马卡比书中葡萄和桑葚的血洒在安条克的大象面前一样。与此同时，亚哈在鲸鱼傲慢的尾巴的泡沫中窒息了一半，他已经是一个无法游泳的跛子，尽管他仍然可以保持漂浮，即使在这样一个漩涡的中心；无助的亚哈的头被看见，就像一个被抛起的泡沫，稍有震动就可能破裂。费达拉站在破烂不堪的船尾，冷漠而温和地看着他。漂流另一端的船员们无法救助他。他们自己看看就足够了。因为白鲸的外貌如此令人毛骨悚然，其不断缩小的圆圈速度如此之快，以至于他似乎在水平地向它们俯冲。尽管其他船只毫发无伤，仍然在附近盘旋；但他们仍然不敢进入漩涡进行攻击，以免这成为亚哈等遇难的漂流者立即遭到毁灭的信号。在这种情况下，他们自己也没有希望逃脱。然后，他们睁大了眼睛，停留在可怕区域的外缘，而可怕区域的中心现在变成了老人的头部。

Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship’s mast heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene; and was now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her!—‘Sail on the’—but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and whelmed him for the time. But struggling out of it again, and chancing to rise on a towering crest, he shouted,—‘Sail on the whale!—Drive him off!’
与此同时，从一开始，这一切都是从船的桅杆头上描述的。她摆好姿势，冲向现场。现在已经很近了，亚哈在水中向她打招呼！——“扬帆起航”——但就在那时，一阵汹涌的大海从莫比·迪克向他猛冲过来，暂时把他压垮了。但他再次挣扎着摆脱困境，碰巧爬上一座高耸的山峰，他喊道：“驾着鲸鱼航行！把他赶走！”

The Pequod’s prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle, she effectually parted the white whale from his victim. As he sullenly swam off, the boats flew to the rescue.
裴阔德号的船头是尖的；她打破了迷人的圆圈，有效地将白鲸与受害者分开。当他闷闷不乐地游走时，船只飞来救援。

Dragged into Stubb’s boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the white brine caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab’s bodily strength did crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body’s doom: for a time, lying all crushed in the bottom of Stubb’s boat, like one trodden under foot of herds of elephants. Far inland, nameless wails came from him, as desolate sounds from out ravines.
他被拖进斯塔布的船上，眼睛布满血丝，失明，白色的盐水在他的皱纹里结块。亚哈长期紧张的身体力量确实崩溃了，他无助地屈服于身体的厄运：有一段时间，他全身压在斯塔布的船底里，就像一个被大象群踩在脚下的人。在内陆深处，他传来无名的哀号，如同峡谷中传来的荒凉的声音。

But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more abbreviate it. In an instant’s compass, great hearts sometimes condense to one deep pang, the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused through feebler men’s whole lives. And so, such hearts, though summary in each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it, in their life-time aggregate a whole age of woe, wholly made up of instantaneous intensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble natures contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls.
但这种强烈的身体虚脱却让他的时间变得更加短暂。在刹那的时间里，伟大的心灵有时会凝结成一种深深的痛苦，这些浅浅的痛苦的总和仁慈地弥漫在弱者的一生中。因此，这样的心，虽然概括在每个人的痛苦之中；然而，如果众神下令的话，在他们的一生中，会累积整个时代的痛苦，完全由瞬间的强度组成。因为即使在那些无意义的中心，那些高贵的本性也包含了低等灵魂的整个周围。

‘The harpoon,’ said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on one bended arm—‘is it safe?’
“鱼叉，”亚哈半站起身，拖着一只弯曲的手臂拖着脚步说道，“安全吗？”

‘Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it,’ said Stubb, showing it.
“是的，先生，因为它没有飞镖；就是这个，”斯塔布边说边展示它。

‘Lay it before me;—any missing men?’
“把它放在我面前；——有失踪的人吗？”

‘One, two, three, four, five;—there were five oars, sir, and here are five men.’
“一，二，三，四，五；——有五支桨，先生，这里有五个人。”

‘That’s good.—Help me, man; I wish to stand. So, so, I see him! there! there! going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!—Hands off from me! The eternal sap runs up in Ahab’s bones again! Set the sail; out oars; the helm!’
“那就好。——帮帮我吧，伙计；”我想站起来。所以，所以，我看到他了！那里！那里！仍往下风方向；多么跳跃的水流啊！——放开我的手！永恒的元气再次在亚哈的骨头里涌动！扬帆起航；出桨；掌舵！

It is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked up by another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is thus continued with what is called double-banked oars. It was thus now. But the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the whale, for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with a velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under these circumstances, pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitely prolonged, if not a hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long a period, such an unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thing barely tolerable only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself, then, as it sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate means of overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her, and were soon swayed up to their cranes—the two parts of the wrecked boat having been previously secured by her—and then hoisting everything to her side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sideways outstretching it with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of an albatross; the Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. At the well known, methodic intervals, the whale’s glittering spout was regularly announced from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be reported as just gone down, Ahab would take the time, and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch in hand, so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expired, his voice was heard.—‘Whose is the doubloon now? D’ye see him?’ and if the reply was, No, sir! straightway he commanded them to lift him to his perch. In this way the day wore on; Ahab, now aloft and motionless; anon, unrestingly pacing the planks.
通常情况下，当一艘船被烧毁时，其船员会被另一艘船接走，帮助第二艘船工作；追逐就这样用所谓的双侧桨继续进行。现在就是这样。但船增加的力量并不等于鲸鱼增加的力量，因为它似乎把每一个鳍都倾斜了三层。游泳的速度清楚地表明，如果现在在这种情况下继续前进，追逐将被证明是无限期延长的，即使不是一场绝望的追逐；任何船员都无法忍受这么长时间、如此不间断、剧烈地用力划桨。一件只有在短暂的变迁中才难以忍受的事情。那么，正如有时发生的那样，船本身提供了最有希望的超越追赶的中间手段。于是，小船现在就向她驶来，很快就被吊到了起重机上——失事船的两部分之前已经被她固定住了——然后把所有东西都吊到她身边，把她的帆布高高地堆起来，并向侧面伸展。它有眩晕帆，就像信天翁的双节翅膀；裴廓德号顺着白鲸号的下风尾流冲下来。每隔一段众所周知的、有条不紊的时间间隔，有人操纵的桅杆顶端就会定期宣布鲸鱼闪闪发光的喷水声。当有人报告他刚刚沉没时，亚哈会慢慢来，然后手里拿着罗经柜手表在甲板上踱步，规定时间的最后一秒一过，就听到他的声音。现在是达布隆吗？你看到他了吗？”如果回答是：没有，先生！他立即命令他们把他抬到栖息处。日子就这样过去了。亚哈现在高高在上，一动不动；很快，他在木板上不安地踱步。

As he was thus walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the men aloft, or to bid them hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a still greater breadth—thus to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat, at every turn he passed his own wrecked boat, which had been dropped upon the quarter-deck, and lay there reversed; broken bow to shattered stern. At last he paused before it; and as in an already over-clouded sky fresh troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over the old man’s face there now stole some such added gloom as this.
他就这样走着，一言不发，除了向高处的人们打招呼，或者命令他们把帆升得更高，或者把帆展开得更大——就这样，在他那无边的帽子下，他来回踱着步，转过身，他经过了自己的失事船，那条船掉在尾甲板上，倒在那里。破碎的船头到破碎的船尾。最后他在它面前停了下来；正如在已经乌云密布的天空中，有时会有新的云团飘过，所以在老人的脸上，现在偷走了一些这样的阴郁。

Stubb saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, to evince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place in his Captain’s mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed—‘The thistle the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha! ha!’
斯塔布看到他停了下来。他向前走去，看着沉船，大声喊道：“驴子拒绝了蓟；驴子拒绝了。”它太刺痛了他的嘴，先生；哈！哈！'

‘What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck? Man, man! did I not know thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could swear thou wert a poltroon. Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck.’
‘这是什么没有灵魂的东西，在沉船前笑？伙计，伙计！如果我不知道你像无畏的火焰（和机械）一样勇敢，我可以发誓你是个坏人。在沉船之前不应听到呻吟或笑声。

‘Aye, sir,’ said Starbuck drawing near, ‘‘tis a solemn sight; an omen, and an ill one.’
“是的，先生，”斯塔巴克走近说道，“这是一个庄严的景象；”这是一个预兆，而且是一个不祥的预兆。”

‘Omen? omen?—the dictionary! If the gods think to speak outright to man, they will honourably speak outright; not shake their heads, and give an old wives’ darkling hint.—Begone! Ye two are the opposite poles of one thing; Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and ye two are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of the peopled earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors! Cold, cold—I shiver!—How now? Aloft there! D’ye see him? Sing out for every spout, though he spout ten times a second!’
'预兆？预兆？——字典！如果诸神想对人类直言不讳，他们就会堂而皇之地直言不讳；不要摇头，并给出老太太的阴暗暗示。——走吧！你们两个是一件事的相反两极；星巴克是 Stubb 的倒转，Stubb 就是星巴克；你们两个都是人类；亚哈孤零零地站在世上数以百万计的人口中，他的邻居既不是神也不是人！冷，冷——我发抖！——现在怎么样？高处在那里！你看到他了吗？为每一次喷水而大声歌唱，尽管他每秒喷水十次！

The day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling. Soon, it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset.
这一天快结束了。只有金色长袍的下摆在沙沙作响。很快，天就快黑了，但瞭望员们却依然心神不宁。

‘Can’t see the spout now, sir;—too dark’—cried a voice from the air.
“现在看不到喷口了，先生；太黑了”——空中有一个声音喊道。

‘How heading when last seen?’
“最后一次见到时，前进方向如何？”

‘As before, sir,—straight to leeward.’
“和以前一样，长官——直接到下风方向。”

‘Good! he will travel slower now ‘tis night. Down royals and top-gallant stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck. We must not run over him before morning; he’s making a passage now, and may heave-to a while. Helm there! keep her full before the wind!—Aloft! come down!—Mr. Stubb, send a fresh hand to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning.’—Then advancing towards the doubloon in the main-mast—‘Men, this gold is mine, for I earned it; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead; and then, whosoever of ye first raises him, upon the day he shall be killed, this gold is that man’s; and if on that day I shall again raise him, then, ten times its sum shall be divided among all of ye! Away now!—the deck is thine, sir!’
'好的！现在是晚上，他会走得慢一些。星巴克先生，羽绒服皇家和顶级风帆。天亮之前我们不能从他身上碾过去；他现在正在讲话，可能需要一段时间。掌舵在那里！让她在风前吃饱！——高空！下来吧！——先生。斯塔布，派一个新人去前桅杆头，让它一直有人值守，直到早上。’——然后向主桅上的达布隆前进——‘伙计们，这些金子是我的，因为我赢得了它；但我会让它留在这里，直到白鲸死为止；然后，你们中谁先养了他，到了他被杀的那一天，这些金子就是那个人的了。如果那天我再让他复活，那么，你们所有人都将分得十倍！现在走吧！——甲板是你的了，先生！”

And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and slouching his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals rousing himself to see how the night wore on.
说着，他把自己放在天窗的一半位置，垂下帽子，站在那里直到黎明，除了偶尔醒来看看夜色如何流逝。

Chapter 134
第134章

The Chase—Second Day.
追逐——第二天。

At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.
天一亮，三个桅杆头就重新准时值守。

‘D’ye see him?’ cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light to spread.
“你看到他了吗？”亚哈在给光线传播一点空间后喊道。

‘See nothing, sir.’
“什么也没看见，先生。”

‘Turn up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thought for;—the top-gallant sails!—aye, they should have been kept on her all night. But no matter—‘tis but resting for the rush.’
‘举起双手，扬帆起航！他的行进速度比我想象的要快；——顶级风帆！——是的，它们应该整晚都挂在她身上。但没关系——“这只是为了匆忙而休息。”

Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular whale, continued through day into night, and through night into day, is a thing by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is the wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincible confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket commanders; that from the simple observation of a whale when last descried, they will, under certain given circumstances, pretty accurately foretell both the direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of sight, as well as his probable rate of progression during that period. And, in these cases, somewhat as a pilot, when about losing sight of a coast, whose general trending he well knows, and which he desires shortly to return to again, but at some further point; like as this pilot stands by his compass, and takes the precise bearing of the cape at present visible, in order the more certainly to hit aright the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be visited: so does the fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after being chased, and diligently marked, through several hours of daylight, then, when night obscures the fish, the creature’s future wake through the darkness is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter, as the pilot’s coast is to him. So that to this hunter’s wondrous skill, the proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water, a wake, is to all desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land. And as the mighty iron Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in its every pace, that, with watches in their hands, men time his rate as doctors that of a baby’s pulse; and lightly say of it, the up train or the down train will reach such or such a spot, at such or such an hour; even so, almost, there are occasions when these Nantucketers time that other Leviathan of the deep, according to the observed humor of his speed; and say to themselves, so many hours hence this whale will have gone two hundred miles, will have about reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude. But to render this acuteness at all successful in the end, the wind and the sea must be the whaleman’s allies; for of what present avail to the becalmed or windbound mariner is the skill that assures him he is exactly ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his port? Inferable from these statements, are many collateral subtile matters touching the chase of whales.
值得一提的是，这种对某一头鲸鱼的执着追求，从白天到黑夜，从黑夜到白天，在南海渔业中绝非史无前例。这就是楠塔基特指挥官中一些伟大的天才所获得的出色的技巧、经验的先见之明和无敌的信心。通过对最后一次描述的鲸鱼的简单观察，在某些给定的情况下，他们将非常准确地预测他在看不见的情况下将继续游动一段时间的方向，以及他可能的前进速度在那个时期。而且，在这些情况下，有点像飞行员，当他失去海岸的视线时，他非常了解海岸的总体趋势，并且他希望很快再次返回，但在更远的某个时刻；就像这位飞行员站在他的指南针旁边，精确地定位当前可见的海角，以便更确定地击中遥远的、看不见的岬角，最终到达目的地：渔夫也是如此，在他的指南针前，鲸鱼;因为在白天的几个小时里被追逐和辛勤地标记之后，然后，当夜色遮盖了鱼时，这种生物未来在黑暗中的苏醒对于猎人的睿智头脑来说几乎就像飞行员的海岸对于他来说一样确定。因此，对于这位猎人的奇妙技巧来说，众所周知，水中写下的东西的转瞬即逝，即尾迹，对于所有期望的目的来说，几乎与坚定的土地一样可靠。 现代铁路上巨大的钢铁利维坦的每一步都为人所熟知，人们手里拿着手表，就像医生计算婴儿脉搏的速度一样，计算着它的速度；随便说一下，上行火车或下行火车将在某时某刻到达某某地点。即便如此，几乎有时，这些楠塔基特人会根据对其他深海利维坦速度的幽默观察来计时。对自己说，再过几个小时，这头鲸鱼就已经走了两百英里，大约到达了这个或那个纬度或经度。但为了使这种敏锐性最终取得成功，风和海洋必须成为捕鲸人的盟友；对于平静或顺风的水手来说，确保他距离港口正好九十三里又四分之一的技能有什么用呢？从这些陈述中可以推断出许多与鲸鱼追逐有关的附带微妙问题。

The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the level field.
船继续前行。在海中留下这样的一道沟壑，就像一颗炮弹失手，变成了犁铧，翻起平坦的田野。

‘By salt and hemp!’ cried Stubb, ‘but this swift motion of the deck creeps up one’s legs and tingles at the heart. This ship and I are two brave fellows!—Ha, ha! Some one take me up, and launch me, spine-wise, on the sea,—for by live-oaks! my spine’s a keel. Ha, ha! we go the gait that leaves no dust behind!’
“天啊，盐和麻！”斯塔布喊道，“但是甲板的这种快速运动会爬上人的腿，刺痛你的心。”我和这艘船是两个勇敢的家伙！——哈哈哈！有人把我带上来，把我的脊柱扔到海上——因为是活橡树！我的脊椎是龙骨。哈哈！我们迈着不留灰尘的步伐！

‘There she blows—she blows!—she blows!—right ahead!’ was now the mast-head cry.
“她吹了——她吹了！——她吹了！——就在前面！”现在是桅杆头的喊声。

‘Aye, aye!’ cried Stubb, ‘I knew it—ye can’t escape—blow on and split your spout, O whale! the mad fiend himself is after ye! blow your trump—blister your lungs!—Ahab will dam off your blood, as a miller shuts his watergate upon the stream!’
“是啊，是啊！”斯塔布喊道，“我就知道——你们是逃不掉的——吹气吧，鲸鱼啊，把你的喷口吹裂！”疯狂的恶魔正在追捕你们！吹响你的王牌——让你的肺起泡！——亚哈会堵住你的血液，就像磨坊主关闭溪流上的水闸一样！

And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine worked anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might have felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through the growing awe of Ahab, but they were broken up, and on all sides routed, as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The hand of Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of the previous day; the rack of the past night’s suspense; the fixed, unfearing, blind, reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging towards its flying mark; by all these things, their hearts were bowled along. The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.
斯塔布只是为几乎所有船员发声。此时，疯狂的追逐已经让他们兴奋不已，就像旧酒重新焕发活力一样。无论他们中的一些人以前可能感受到多么苍白的恐惧和不祥的预感；现在，由于亚哈日益增长的敬畏感，这些人不仅被挡在了视线之外，而且还被打散，四面八方溃散，就像胆怯的草原野兔在跳跃的野牛面前四散奔逃一样。命运之手夺走了他们所有的灵魂；以及前一天令人不安的危险；昨晚悬念的架子；他们的狂野飞行器以固定的、无所畏惧的、盲目的、鲁莽的方式猛冲向其飞行目标；所有这些事情，让他们的心都跟着震动。风使他们的帆鼓得鼓鼓的，用无形的、不可抗拒的手臂冲着船前进。这似乎是那个看不见的机构的象征，它使他们成为种族的奴隶。

They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all; though it was put together of all contrasting things—oak, and maple, and pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp—yet all these ran into each other in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced and directed by the long central keel; even so, all the individualities of the crew, this man’s valor, that man’s fear; guilt and guiltiness, all varieties were welded into oneness, and were all directed to that fatal goal which Ahab their one lord and keel did point to.
他们是一个人，而不是三十个人。因为就像一艘载着他们所有人的船；尽管它是由所有对比鲜明的东西组合在一起的——橡木、枫木和松木；铁、沥青和大麻——然而所有这些都在一个混凝土船体中相互碰撞，船体在长长的中央龙骨的引导下一路向前行驶。即便如此，船员们的所有个性，这个人的勇敢，那个人的恐惧；罪恶感和罪恶感，所有的种类都被焊接成一体，并且都指向亚哈他们的唯一主人和龙骨所指向的致命目标。

The rigging lived. The mast-heads, like the tops of tall palms, were outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs. Clinging to a spar with one hand, some reached forth the other with impatient wavings; others, shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat far out on the rocking yards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe for their fate. Ah! how they still strove through that infinite blueness to seek out the thing that might destroy them!
索具还活着。桅杆顶就像高大的棕榈树顶端，布满了手臂和腿。有些人一手抓着一根桅杆，另一只手不耐烦地挥舞着。其他人则坐在摇摇晃晃的院子远处，遮住眼睛，以免受到强烈的阳光照射。所有的晶石都充满了凡人，为他们的命运做好了准备。啊!他们仍然在无尽的蓝色中奋力寻找可能毁灭他们的东西！

‘Why sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?’ cried Ahab, when, after the lapse of some minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard. ‘Sway me up, men; ye have been deceived; not Moby Dick casts one odd jet that way, and then disappears.’
“既然你们看到了他，为什么不为他唱歌呢？”亚哈喊道，自从第一声哭声过去了几分钟之后，就再也没有听到任何声音了。 ‘让我起来吧，伙计们；你们被欺骗了；不是《白鲸》那样喷射出一架奇怪的喷气机，然后就消失了。”

It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had mistaken some other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved; for hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed to its pin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made the air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles. The triumphant halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as—much nearer to the ship than the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead—Moby Dick bodily burst into view! For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the White Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon of breaching. Rising with his utmost velocity from the furthest depths, the Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into the pure element of air, and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam, shows his place to the distance of seven miles and more. In those moments, the torn, enraged waves he shakes off, seem his mane; in some cases, this breaching is his act of defiance.
事实也是如此；由于急于求成，人们把其他东西误认为是鲸鱼喷口，这一事件很快就证明了这一点。因为亚哈刚到达他的栖息地；绳子刚系到甲板上的销钉上，他就敲响了管弦乐队的基调，空气随着步枪的联合射击而震动。三十只鹿皮肺发出胜利的欢呼声，因为——比想象中的喷气式飞机的位置离船更近，前方不到一英里——莫比·迪克的身体突然出现在视野中！因为不是通过任何冷静和懒惰的滔滔不绝；现在，白鲸并不是通过他头脑中神秘喷泉的平静喷涌来揭示他的附近的。但更奇妙的突破现象。抹香鲸以最快的速度从最深处升起，将整个身体抛入纯净的空气中，并堆积起一座令人眼花缭乱的泡沫山，在七英里甚至更远的地方显示出它的位置。在那些时刻，他甩掉的撕裂的、愤怒的波浪就像他的鬃毛；在某些情况下，这种违反行为是他的蔑视行为。

‘There she breaches! there she breaches!’ was the cry, as in his immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to Heaven. So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved against the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, for the moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; and stood there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling intensity, to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale.
‘她就这样突破了！她冲破了！”白鲸在无边无际的虚张声势中像鲑鱼一样把自己抛向了天堂。突然出现在蓝色的大海平原上，在更蓝的天空边缘映衬下，他扬起的浪花暂时像冰川一样闪闪发光，令人难以忍受；站在那里，从最初的闪闪发光的强度逐渐消失，逐渐消失，变成山谷中即将来临的阵雨的昏暗薄雾。

‘Aye, breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!’ cried Ahab, ‘thy hour and thy harpoon are at hand!—Down! down all of ye, but one man at the fore. The boats!—stand by!’
“是啊，把你的最后一击冲向太阳吧，莫比·迪克！”亚哈喊道，“你的时刻和你的鱼叉就在眼前！——下去！你们所有人都倒下了，只有一个人在前面。船！——待命！”

Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like shooting stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated backstays and halyards; while Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was dropped from his perch.
船员们不顾裹尸布上那些繁琐的绳梯，像流星一样，沿着孤立的后支索和升降索滑到甲板上。而亚哈虽然不那么急躁，但仍然很快从他的栖息地跌落。

‘Lower away,’ he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat—a spare one, rigged the afternoon previous. ‘Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine—keep away from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all!’
“下去吧，”他一到达他的船就喊道——这是一艘备用船，前一天下午就安装好了。 '先生。星巴克，这艘船是你的——远离船只，但要靠近它们。降低，全部！

As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the three crews. Ahab’s boat was central; and cheering his men, he told them he would take the whale head-and-head,—that is, pull straight up to his forehead,—a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit, such a course excludes the coming onset from the whale’s sidelong vision. But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all three boats were plain as the ship’s three masts to his eye; the White Whale churning himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were, rushing among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered appalling battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him from every boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank of which those boats were made. But skilfully manoeuvred, incessantly wheeling like trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while eluded him; though, at times, but by a plank’s breadth; while all the time, Ahab’s unearthly slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds.
仿佛是为了给他们带来快速的恐惧，莫比·迪克此时是第一个袭击者，他已经转身，朝三名船员冲来。亚哈的船位于中央；他为他的手下欢呼，告诉他们他会头对头地抓住鲸鱼，也就是说，直接拉到他的额头上，这并不罕见。因为当在一定限度内时，这样的路线将即将到来的发作排除在鲸鱼的侧视视野之外。但在到达接近的极限之前，尽管三艘船在他眼中都像船的三根桅杆一样简单；白鲸以惊人的速度搅动着自己，几乎是在一瞬间，张开嘴巴，甩动尾巴，在船只之间冲来，在四面八方展开了可怕的战斗。每条船上的铁杆都毫不顾忌地向他猛冲过来，似乎只想毁掉构成这些船的每一块木板。但机动灵活，像田野里训练有素的战马一样不停地转动；船有一段时间避开了他。虽然，有时，但只有一块木板的宽度；一直以来，亚哈那超凡脱俗的口号都把除了他自己以外的其他人的哭声撕成碎片。

But at last in his untraceable evolutions, the White Whale so crossed and recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three lines now fast to him, that they foreshortened, and, of themselves, warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him; though now for a moment the whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a more tremendous charge. Seizing that opportunity, Ahab first paid out more line: and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again—hoping that way to disencumber it of some snarls—when lo!—a sight more savage than the embattled teeth of sharks!
但最后，在他难以追踪的演变过程中，白鲸如此交叉又重新交叉，并以一千种方式缠绕着现在紧紧固定在他身上的三根线的松弛部分，使它们缩短，并自行将忠诚的船只扭曲到固定的铁杆上。在他那边;不过，鲸鱼暂时稍稍向一边退了一步，仿佛要集结起来，发起更猛烈的冲锋。抓住这个机会，亚哈首先支付了更多的线：然后再次快速地拉扯和猛拉它 - 希望这样可以消除一些咆哮 - 当瞧！ - 景象比鲨鱼的牙齿更野蛮！

Caught and twisted—corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoons and lances, with all their bristling barbs and points, came flashing and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab’s boat. Only one thing could be done. Seizing the boat-knife, he critically reached within—through—and then, without—the rays of steel; dragged in the line beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice sundering the rope near the chocks—dropped the intercepted fagot of steel into the sea; and was all fast again. That instant, the White Whale made a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines; by so doing, irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and Flask towards his flukes; dashed them together like two rolling husks on a surf-beaten beach, and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in a boiling maelstrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of the wrecks danced round and round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly stirred bowl of punch.
松散的鱼叉和长矛，连同它们所有的倒刺和尖端，在迷宫般的线中被抓住和扭曲，闪烁着，滴到亚哈船头的木楔上。只能做一件事。他抓住船刀，批判性地将手伸进——穿过——然后，伸到外面——钢铁的光芒；把绳子拖到远处，从船内穿过，交给弓箭手，然后，在木楔附近两次撕断绳子——把截获的钢捆扔进海里；一切又变得很快了。就在这一瞬间，白鲸突然从剩下的绳索中冲了过去。通过这样做，不可抗拒地将斯塔布和弗拉斯克的更复杂的船只拖向他的侥幸；它们像两个在海浪冲刷的海滩上翻滚的船壳一样撞在一起，然后潜入大海，消失在沸腾的漩涡中，沉船中散发着气味的雪松片在其中有一段时间不停地舞动，就像将磨碎的肉豆蔻放入快速搅拌的潘趣酒碗中。

While the two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out after the revolving line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, while aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitching his legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was lustily singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the old man’s line—now parting—admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to rescue whom he could;—in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand concreted perils,—Ahab’s yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards Heaven by invisible wires,—as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularly from the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till it fell again—gunwale downwards—and Ahab and his men struggled out from under it, like seals from a sea-side cave.
当两名船员还在水中盘旋时，他们伸手去抓旋转的线盆、桨和其他漂浮的家具，而小弗拉斯克则像一个空瓶子一样上下摆动，向上抽动着双腿，以逃避可怕的大嘴。鲨鱼；斯塔布正大声呼唤有人把他舀起来。虽然老人的路线——现在分开了——承认他把人拉进了奶油色的水池里，去营救他能救的人；——在那千种具体的危险同时发生的时候，——亚哈那条尚未受损的船似乎被无形的电线拉向天堂，——白鲸像箭一样从海里垂直射出，用宽阔的前额撞在它的底部，然后把它翻来覆去地射向空中。直到它再次倒下——船舷向下——亚哈和他的部下从它下面挣扎着出来，就像海豹从海边的洞穴里爬出来一样。

The first uprising momentum of the whale—modifying its direction as he struck the surface—involuntarily launched him along it, to a little distance from the centre of the destruction he had made; and with his back to it, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip or crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and came sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his leeward way at a traveller’s methodic pace.
鲸鱼的第一个上升势头——在撞击水面时改变了方向——不由自主地把他沿着鲸鱼推向了距离他所造成的破坏中心不远的地方；现在，他背对着它，躺了一会儿，用尾鳍慢慢地从一边摸到另一边。每当一根漂流的桨、一块木板、船上哪怕是最微小的碎片或碎屑接触到他的皮肤时，他的尾巴都会迅速缩回，向侧面猛击大海。但很快，他好像对自己这段时间的工作已经完成感到满意，把打褶的额头伸进了大海，拖着纠缠的线条，以旅行者有条不紊的步伐继续向下风方向前进。

As before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, again came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up the floating mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at, and safely landed them on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists, and ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances; inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these were there; but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen any one. As with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to his boat’s broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy float; nor did it so exhaust him as the previous day’s mishap.
和以前一样，那艘细心的船在描述了整个战斗过程后，再次前来救援，放下一艘小船，捡起漂浮的水手、浴缸、桨和其他任何可以抓住的东西，并将它们安全地降落在她的甲板上。有的肩膀、手腕、脚踝扭伤；有的扭伤。青紫挫伤；扭紧的鱼叉和长矛；绳索错综复杂、无法解开；破碎的桨和木板；所有这些都在那里；但似乎没有人患上致命的甚至重病。与前一天的费达拉一样，亚哈现在被发现冷酷地抓着他的船破损的一半，这提供了相对容易的漂浮；这也没有像前一天的不幸那样让他精疲力尽。

But when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivory leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splinter.
但当他被扶到甲板上时，所有人的目光都集中在他身上。他没有独自站立，而是半挂在星巴克的肩膀上，而星巴克迄今为止是最先帮助他的。他的象牙腿被折断，只留下一根短而锋利的碎片。

‘Aye, aye, Starbuck, ‘tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the leaner who he will; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has.’
“是的，是的，星巴克，有时瘦是很甜蜜的，他想瘦就瘦吧；”老亚哈要是能比他更频繁地倾斜就好了。

‘The ferrule has not stood, sir,’ said the carpenter, now coming up; ‘I put good work into that leg.’
“先生，套圈没立稳。”木匠走上前来说道。 “我在那条腿上下了很大功夫。”

‘But no bones broken, sir, I hope,’ said Stubb with true concern.
“但是我希望骨头没有骨折，先生，”斯塔布真正关心地说。

‘Aye! and all splintered to pieces, Stubb!—d’ye see it.—But even with a broken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone of mine one jot more me, than this dead one that’s lost. Nor white whale, nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and inaccessible being. Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape yonder roof?—Aloft there! which way?’
‘是啊！一切都碎成了碎片，斯塔布！——你看到了。——但是，即使骨头断了，老亚哈也毫发无伤。我认为我的活骨头没有比这失去的死​​骨头更重要的了。无论是白鲸，还是人类，还是恶魔，都无法在老亚哈自己固有的、难以接近的存在中吃草。铅能触及那边的地板吗？桅杆能刮到那边的屋顶吗？——高处！哪一条路？'

‘Dead to leeward, sir.’
“位于下风方向，长官。”

‘Up helm, then; pile on the sail again, ship keepers! down the rest of the spare boats and rig them—Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat’s crews.’
“那么，掌舵吧；再次扬帆起航，船主们！放下剩下的备用船并安装它们——先生。星巴克走开，召集船上的船员。

‘Let me first help thee towards the bulwarks, sir.’
“首先让我帮助您走向舷墙，长官。”

‘Oh, oh, oh! how this splinter gores me now! Accursed fate! that the unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!’
'哦哦哦！这块碎片现在让我感到多么刺痛！可恶的命运！灵魂中不可战胜的船长竟然有一个如此胆怯的伴侣！

‘Sir?’
'先生？'

‘My body, man, not thee. Give me something for a cane—there, that shivered lance will do. Muster the men. Surely I have not seen him yet. By heaven it cannot be!—missing?—quick! call them all.’
“我的身体，伙计，不是你。”给我一些当手杖的东西——那根颤抖的长矛就可以了。召集男人们。当然我还没有见过他。天哪，这不可能！——失踪了？——快点！给他们所有人打电话。

The old man’s hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, the Parsee was not there.
老者暗示的想法是真的。当大家集合起来时，帕西人并不在那里。

‘The Parsee!’ cried Stubb—‘he must have been caught in—’
“那个帕西人！”斯塔布喊道，“他一定是被困在了——”

‘The black vomit wrench thee!—run all of ye above, alow, cabin, forecastle—find him—not gone—not gone!’
“黑色的呕吐物折磨着你！——你们所有人都跑到上面，低空，船舱，艏楼——找到他——没有消失——没有消失！”

But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee was nowhere to be found.
但很快他们就回来告诉他帕西人不知所踪。

‘Aye, sir,’ said Stubb—‘caught among the tangles of your line—I thought I saw him dragging under.’
“是的，先生，”斯塔布说——“被你的绳子缠住了——我以为我看见他拖到了水下。”

‘MY line! MY line? Gone?—gone? What means that little word?—What death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry. The harpoon, too!—toss over the litter there,—d’ye see it?—the forged iron, men, the white whale’s—no, no, no,—blistered fool! this hand did dart it!—‘tis in the fish!—Aloft there! Keep him nailed—Quick!—all hands to the rigging of the boats—collect the oars—harpooneers! the irons, the irons!—hoist the royals higher—a pull on all the sheets!—helm there! steady, steady for your life! I’ll ten times girdle the unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but I’ll slay him yet!
‘我的线！我的线？走了？——走了？这个小词是什么意思？——里面响起了什么丧钟，老亚哈浑身颤抖，仿佛他就是钟楼。还有鱼叉！——把垃圾扔到那里，——看到了吗？——锻铁，男人们，白鲸的——不，不，不，——浑身起泡的傻瓜！这只手确实把它扔了！——它在鱼里！——高高在上！把他钉牢——快！——所有的人都去操纵船只——收起桨——鱼叉手！熨斗，熨斗！——把皇室成员举得更高——拉动所有的床单！——掌舵！稳住，稳住你的人生！我将环绕这无法测量的地球十次；是的，直接冲过去，但我还是会杀了他！

‘Great God! but for one single instant show thyself,’ cried Starbuck; ‘never, never wilt thou capture him, old man—In Jesus’ name no more of this, that’s worse than devil’s madness. Two days chased; twice stove to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evil shadow gone—all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:— what more wouldst thou have?—Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish till he swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom of the sea? Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh, oh,—Impiety and blasphemy to hunt him more!’
‘伟大的上帝！ “但请展示一下你自己，”斯塔巴克喊道。 “永远，永远，你永远不会抓住他，老人——以耶稣的名义，别再这样了，这比魔鬼的疯狂更糟糕。”追了两天；两次被炉子烧成碎片；你的腿再次被从你身下夺走；你邪恶的影子消失了——所有善良的天使都向你发出警告：——你还想要什么？——我们要继续追赶这条凶残的鱼，直到他淹没最后一个人吗？我们要被他拖到海底吗？我们要被他拖到地狱吗？哦，哦，——对他进行更多的不敬和亵渎！

‘Starbuck, of late I’ve felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that hour we both saw—thou know’st what, in one another’s eyes. But in this matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this hand—a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This whole act’s immutably decreed. ‘Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion years before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates’ lieutenant; I act under orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.—Stand round me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered lance; propped up on a lonely foot. ‘Tis Ahab—his body’s part; but Ahab’s soul’s a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feel strained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a gale; and I may look so. But ere I break, yell hear me crack; and till ye hear THAT, know that Ahab’s hawser tows his purpose yet. Believe ye, men, in the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore! For ere they drown, drowning things will twice rise to the surface; then rise again, to sink for evermore. So with Moby Dick—two days he’s floated—tomorrow will be the third. Aye, men, he’ll rise once more,—but only to spout his last! D’ye feel brave men, brave?’
“星巴克，最近我对你产生了一种奇怪的感动；从那一刻起，我们都在彼此的眼中看到了——你知道的。但在鲸鱼这件事上，你的脸对我来说就像这只手的手掌——一块没有嘴唇、没有特征的空白。亚哈永远是亚哈，伙计。整个行为是不可更改的法令。 ‘这是你和我在海洋翻腾十亿年前就已经排练过的。傻子！我是命运的副官；我按照命令行事。你看，下属！你服从我的。——站在我周围，伙计们。你看到一个老人被砍倒在树桩上；倚在颤抖的长矛上；孤单地支撑着。这是亚哈——他身体的一部分；但亚哈的灵魂是一只蜈蚣，用一百条腿行走。我感到紧张，半搁浅，就像在大风中拖曳断桅护卫舰的绳索一样；我看起来可能是这样。但在我崩溃之前，请大喊一声，听我崩溃；在你们听到这个消息之前，就知道亚哈的缆绳还没有达到他的目的。伙计们，你们相信所谓预兆的东西吗？然后放声大笑，再哭一次！因为在被淹死之前，溺水的东西会两次浮出水面；然后再次升起，永远沉没。对于莫比迪克来说——他已经漂浮了两天——明天将是第三天。是的，伙计们，他会再次站起来，但只是为了吐出他的最后一句话！你们觉得自己是勇敢的人吗，勇敢吗？

‘As fearless fire,’ cried Stubb.
“就像无畏的火焰，”斯塔布喊道。

‘And as mechanical,’ muttered Ahab. Then as the men went forward, he muttered on: ‘The things called omens! And yesterday I talked the same to Starbuck there, concerning my broken boat. Oh! how valiantly I seek to drive out of others’ hearts what’s clinched so fast in mine!—The Parsee—the Parsee!—gone, gone? and he was to go before:—but still was to be seen again ere I could perish—How’s that?—There’s a riddle now might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line of judges:—like a hawk’s beak it pecks my brain. I’LL, I’LL solve it, though!’
“而且是机械的。”亚哈嘀咕道。然后，当人们向前走时，他低声说道：“那些叫做预兆的东西！”昨天我和星巴克也谈了同样的事情，关于我的破船。哦！我是多么勇敢地试图将我心中牢牢牢牢抓住的东西从别人的心中赶走！——帕西人——帕西人！——消失了，消失了？他本来要先走：——但在我死去之前，仍然要再次见到——那是怎么回事？——现在有一个谜语可能会让所有律师都感到困惑，而所有律师都得到了整个法官的鬼魂的支持：——就像鹰嘴一样啄我的大脑。不过，我会，我会解决它！

When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight to leeward.
当黄昏降临时，鲸鱼仍然在下风处可见。

So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as on the previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of the grindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled by lanterns in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening their fresh weapons for the morrow. Meantime, of the broken keel of Ahab’s wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg; while still as on the night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle; his hid, heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial; sat due eastward for the earliest sun.
于是，帆再次缩短，一切都几乎和前一天晚上一样。只是，锤子的声音和磨刀石的嗡嗡声一直持续到天亮，人们才提着灯笼辛勤地完成备用船的安装工作，并为明天磨砺他们的新武器。与此同时，木匠用亚哈失事船只的破损龙骨为他做了另一条腿。亚哈像前一天晚上一样，无精打采地站在天窗里，一动不动。他那隐藏的、天芥菜色的目光期待地向后看向表盘；最早的太阳位于正东。

Chapter 135
第135章

The Chase.—Third Day.
追逐——第三天。

The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more the solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar.
第三天的早晨，阳光明媚，空气清新，前桅杆头那孤独的守夜人再次被一群群日间瞭望员松了一口气，这些瞭望员遍布在每根桅杆和几乎每一根桅杆上。

‘D’ye see him?’ cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.
“你们看到他了吗？”亚哈喊道。但鲸鱼还没有出现。

‘In his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that’s all. Helm there; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going. What a lovely day again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the angels, and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, a fairer day could not dawn upon that world. Here’s food for thought, had Ahab time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels; THAT’S tingling enough for mortal man! to think’s audacity. God only has that right and privilege. Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat too much for that. And yet, I’ve sometimes thought my brain was very calm—frozen calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which the contents turned to ice, and shiver it. And still this hair is growing now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it’s like that sort of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy clefts of Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blow it; they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed ship they cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through prison corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and ventilated them, and now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces. Out upon it!—it’s tainted. Were I the wind, I’d blow no more on such a wicked, miserable world. I’d crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink there. And yet, ‘tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever conquered it? In every fight it has the last and bitterest blow. Run tilting at it, and you but run through it. Ha! a coward wind that strikes stark naked men, but will not stand to receive a single blow. Even Ahab is a braver thing—a nobler thing than THAT. Would now the wind but had a body; but all the things that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things are bodiless, but only bodiless as objects, not as agents. There’s a most special, a most cunning, oh, a most malicious difference! And yet, I say again, and swear it now, that there’s something all glorious and gracious in the wind. These warm Trade Winds, at least, that in the clear heavens blow straight on, in strong and steadfast, vigorous mildness; and veer not from their mark, however the baser currents of the sea may turn and tack, and mightiest Mississippies of the land swift and swerve about, uncertain where to go at last. And by the eternal Poles! these same Trades that so directly blow my good ship on; these Trades, or something like them—something so unchangeable, and full as strong, blow my keeled soul along! To it! Aloft there! What d’ye see?’
“不过，在他无误的追随下；但跟随那个觉醒，仅此而已。掌舵在那里；稳定，正如你所走的，并且一直在走。又是多么美好的一天啊！如果它是一个新创造的世界，为天使们建造的避暑别墅，而今天早上它第一次向他们开放，那么这个世界将迎来最美好的一天。这是值得深思的，让亚哈有时间思考；但亚哈从不思考；他只是感觉、感觉、感觉；这对于凡人来说已经足够刺痛了！思考就是大胆。只有上帝才有这样的权利和特权。思考是，或者应该是，一种冷静，一种平静；我们可怜的心在跳动，我们可怜的大脑跳动得太多了。然而，有时我认为我的大脑非常平静——冻结的平静，这个古老的头骨如此破裂，就像玻璃杯中的内容物变成了冰，并颤抖着。现在头发仍在生长；这一刻正在成长，热量必须孕育它；但不，它就像那种普通的草，可以生长在任何地方，格陵兰冰的土质裂缝之间或维苏威火山熔岩中。狂风如何吹拂它；他们把它鞭打在我身上，而裂开的帆的碎片则猛烈地鞭打着他们所依附的那艘被抛起的船。毫无疑问，一股邪恶的风在此之前吹过监狱的走廊、牢房和医院的病房，给它们带来通风，现在又像羊毛一样无辜地吹到这里。出去吧！——它被污染了。如果我是风，我就不会再吹向这个邪恶、悲惨的世界。我会爬到某个山洞，然后潜入那里。然而，风是一种高贵而英雄的东西！谁曾征服过它？在每一次战斗中，它都会受到最后也是最痛苦的打击。倾斜地冲向它，你就会穿过它。哈！胆怯的风吹向赤身裸体的人，却经不起一击。甚至亚哈也比那更勇敢、更崇高。 如今风却有了身体；但所有最令凡人恼怒和愤慨的事物，所有这些事物都是无实体的，但只是作为物体而不是作为代理人的无实体。有一个最特别、最狡猾、哦、最恶毒的区别！然而，我再说一遍，并且现在发誓，风中充满了荣耀和亲切的东西。至少，这些温暖的信风在晴朗的天空中以强烈、坚定、有力的温和直吹；他们不会偏离自己的目标，但大海的暗流可能会转向，陆地上最强大的密西西比河也会迅速转向，不确定最终要去哪里。以及永恒的波兰人！这些同样的交易直接摧毁了我的好船；这些交易，或者类似的东西——如此不可改变、又充实又强大的东西，让我摇摇欲坠的灵魂不断前进！到它！高处在那里！你看到了什么？’

‘Nothing, sir.’
“没什么，先生。”

‘Nothing! and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See the sun! Aye, aye, it must be so. I’ve oversailed him. How, got the start? Aye, he’s chasing ME now; not I, HIM—that’s bad; I might have known it, too. Fool! the lines—the harpoons he’s towing. Aye, aye, I have run him by last night. About! about! Come down, all of ye, but the regular look outs! Man the braces!’
'没有什么！中午就到了！达布隆开始乞讨！看见太阳了！是啊是啊，一定是这样。我已经超过了他。怎么样，开始了吗？是的，他现在正在追我；不是我，是他——那很糟糕；我可能也知道。傻子！线——他拖着的鱼叉。是啊，是啊，我昨晚已经把他追到了。关于！关于！大家都下来吧，但是普通人要小心！伙计戴上牙套！

Steering as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod’s quarter, so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own white wake.
正如她所做的那样，风在某种程度上吹向了“裴阔德号”的船尾，因此现在指向相反的方向，支撑着的船在微风中艰难地航行，同时她在自己的白色尾流中重新搅动奶油。

‘Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw,’ murmured Starbuck to himself, as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. ‘God keep us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the inside wet my flesh. I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him!’
“他现在逆风驶向张开的下巴，”斯塔巴克一边自言自语，一边把新牵引的主支架卷到栏杆上。 “上帝保佑我们，但我的骨头已经在我体内感到潮湿，从内部湿润了我的肉体。我怀疑自己，因为我服从了上帝，就违背了他！

‘Stand by to sway me up!’ cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket. ‘We should meet him soon.’
“站在旁边，把我摇起来！”亚哈一边喊一边走向麻篮。 “我们应该很快就能见到他了。”

‘Aye, aye, sir,’ and straightway Starbuck did Ahab’s bidding, and once more Ahab swung on high.
“是的，是的，先生。”星巴克立即执行了亚哈的命令，亚哈再次高高挥舞。

A whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages. Time itself now held long breaths with keen suspense. But at last, some three points off the weather bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced it.
整整一个小时过去了。黄金经久不衰。时间本身现在屏住了呼吸，充满了强烈的悬念。但最后，在离风向船头大约三点的地方，亚哈再次看到了喷口，立刻从三个桅杆顶上响起了三声尖叫，仿佛火舌在表达它。

‘Forehead to forehead I meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick! On deck there!—brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind’s eye. He’s too far off to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck. The sails shake! Stand over that helmsman with a top-maul! So, so; he travels fast, and I must down. But let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there’s time for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and not changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills of Nantucket! The same!—the same!—the same to Noah as to me. There’s a soft shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They must lead somewhere—to something else than common land, more palmy than the palms. Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to windward, then; the better if the bitterer quarter. But good bye, good bye, old mast-head! What’s this?—green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks. No such green weather stains on Ahab’s head! There’s the difference now between man’s old age and matter’s. But aye, old mast, we both grow old together; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minus a leg, that’s all. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live flesh every way. I can’t compare with it; and I’ve known some ships made of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital stuff of vital fathers. What’s that he said? he should still go before me, my pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes at the bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and all night I’ve been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye, aye, like many more thou told’st direful truth as touching thyself, O Parsee; but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short. Good-bye, mast-head—keep a good eye upon the whale, the while I’m gone. We’ll talk to-morrow, nay, to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and tail.’
“我额头抵额头遇见你，这是第三次，莫比迪克！”甲板上！——把支柱收紧；把她挤进风眼里。斯塔巴克先生，他还差得很远，还不能下降。风帆摇动！站在那个拿着顶槌的舵手旁边！一般般;他走得很快，我必须下来。不过，让我再高空仔细看看大海吧！有时间这样做。一幅古老而古老的景象，却不知何故如此年轻；是的，自从我第一次看到它，一个来自楠塔基特岛沙丘的男孩以来，我连眼色都没变过！一样！——一样！——诺亚和我都一样。下风处有柔和的阵雨。多么可爱的背风啊！他们必须通向某个地方——通向比公共土地更远的地方，比棕榈树更茂盛的地方。背风！白鲸往那条路走；然后看向上风处；越苦越好。但再见，再见，老桅杆头！这是什么？——绿色？是的，这些扭曲的裂缝里有微小的苔藓。亚哈头上没有这种绿色的气候污渍！现在，人的老年和物质的老年之间存在着区别。但是，是的，老桅杆，我们一起变老；不过，我们的船体发出声音，不是吗，我的船？是的，少了一条腿，仅此而已。天哪，这枯木在各方面都比我活生生的肉体更好。我无法与之相比；我知道一些用死树制成的船比用重要父亲最重要的材料制成的人的生命更长久。他说了什么？他仍然应该走在我前面，我的飞行员；还有待再次见到吗？但是哪里？假设我走下那些无尽的楼梯，我的眼睛会看到海底吗？整个晚上我都在远离他，无论他沉到哪里。是的，是的，像许多人一样，你在触摸自己时讲述了可怕的事实，哦帕西人；但是，亚哈，你的射门失败了。再见，桅杆头——我不在的时候，请密切关注鲸鱼。 我们明天再谈，不，是今晚，那时白鲸就躺在那里，头和尾都被绑住了。’

He gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered through the cloven blue air to the deck.
他发出了命令；仍然凝视着他的周围，飞机平稳地穿过蓝色的空气降落到甲板上。

In due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop’s stern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to the mate,—who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck—and bade him pause.
在适当的时候，船只被放下来。但当亚哈站在他的小船的船尾时，他只是在下降点上盘旋，他向大副挥手——大副拿着甲板上的一根滑车绳——并叫他停下来。

‘Starbuck!’
“星巴克！”

‘Sir?’
'先生？'

‘For the third time my soul’s ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck.’
“我的灵魂之船第三次启航，星巴克。”

‘Aye, sir, thou wilt have it so.’
“是的，先生，您一定会这样的。”

‘Some ships sail from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing, Starbuck!’
“有些船只从港口启航，然后就失踪了，星巴克！”

‘Truth, sir: saddest truth.’
“真相，先生：最悲伤的真相。”

‘Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the full of the flood;—and I feel now like a billow that’s all one crested comb, Starbuck. I am old;—shake hands with me, man.’
‘有的人死于退潮；有些处于低水位；有些在洪水泛滥时；——我现在感觉就像是一片波涛，全是一个有顶冠的梳子，星巴克。我老了；——跟我握手吧，伙计。”

Their hands met; their eyes fastened; Starbuck’s tears the glue.
他们的手相遇了；他们的目光凝视着；星巴克撕掉胶水。

‘Oh, my captain, my captain!—noble heart—go not—go not!—see, it’s a brave man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then!’
“哦，我的船长，我的船长！——高贵的心——不要走——不要走！——看，这是一个哭泣的勇敢的人；那么，说服的过程是多么痛苦啊！

‘Lower away!’—cried Ahab, tossing the mate’s arm from him. ‘Stand by the crew!’
“放下来！”亚哈喊道，甩开了大副的手臂。 “与船员站在一起！”

In an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern.
刹那间，船就在船尾附近转了过来。

‘The sharks! the sharks!’ cried a voice from the low cabin-window there; ‘O master, my master, come back!’
‘鲨鱼们！鲨鱼！”低矮的船舱窗户里传出一个声音。 “主人啊，主人，回来吧！”

But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the boat leaped on.
但亚哈什么也没听见。因为当时他自己的声音很高。小船继续前进。

Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when numbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath the hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time they dipped in the water; and in this way accompanied the boat with their bites. It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats in those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following them in the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of marching regiments in the east. But these were the first sharks that had been observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried; and whether it was that Ahab’s crew were all such tiger-yellow barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the sharks—a matter sometimes well known to affect them,—however it was, they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others.
然而那声音说的是真的；他刚把船推出去，每当桨浸入水中时，许多鲨鱼似乎从船体下方的黑暗水域中升起，恶意地咬住桨叶；就这样，它们的叮咬伴随着船。在那些拥挤的海洋中，捕鲸船遇到这种情况并不少见。鲨鱼有时显然会以同样有先见之明的方式跟随他们，就像秃鹰盘旋在东部行进军团的旗帜上一样。但自从首次描述白鲸以来，这是“裴阔德号”观察到的第一批鲨鱼。是否亚哈的船员都是这样的虎黄色野蛮人，因此他们的肉对鲨鱼来说更加具有麝香味——这是众所周知的有时会影响他们的事情，——无论如何，他们似乎跟随那一艘船，没有骚扰他人。

‘Heart of wrought steel!’ murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, and following with his eyes the receding boat—‘canst thou yet ring boldly to that sight?—lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by them, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?—For when three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit; be sure the first is the morning, the second the noon, and the third the evening and the end of that thing—be that end what it may. Oh! my God! what is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yet expectant,—fixed at the top of a shudder! Future things swim before me, as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim. Mary, girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy! I seem to see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems of life seem clearing; but clouds sweep between—Is my journey’s end coming? My legs feel faint; like his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heart,—beats it yet? Stir thyself, Starbuck!—stave it off—move, move! speak aloud!—Mast-head there! See ye my boy’s hand on the hill?—Crazed;—aloft there!—keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:— mark well the whale!—Ho! again!—drive off that hawk! see! he pecks—he tears the vane’—pointing to the red flag flying at the main-truck—‘Ha! he soars away with it!—Where’s the old man now? see’st thou that sight, oh Ahab!—shudder, shudder!’
“锻钢之心！”斯塔巴克低声说道，他凝视着船舷，眼睛追随着远去的小船——“你还能勇敢地听到那景象吗？——在贪婪的鲨鱼中间放下你的龙骨，跟在它们后面，张着嘴追逐；这就是关键的第三天吗？——因为当三天在一项连续的、激烈的追求中交织在一起时；确保第一个是早上，第二个是中午，第三个是晚上，以及事情的结束——无论结果如何。哦！我的上帝！是什么东西射穿了我，让我如此平静，却又充满期待——全身颤抖不已！未来的事物在我面前游动，就像空洞的轮廓和骨架；过去的一切都不知何故变得黯淡了。玛丽，姑娘！你在我身后苍白的荣耀中消失；男生！我似乎看到了，但你的眼睛变成了奇妙的蓝色。生活中最奇怪的问题似乎都已解决；但云彩掠过——我的旅程即将结束吗？我的双腿发软；就像他整天站在那里一样。感受一下你的心——跳动了吗？搅拌一下吧，星巴克！——别动——动起来，动起来！大声说话！——桅杆头在那里！看到我儿子在山上的手了吗？——疯狂；——在那儿！——把你最敏锐的眼睛放在船上：——好好标记鲸鱼！——嗬！再来一次！——赶走那只鹰！看！他啄——他撕下了风向标”——指着主卡车上飘扬的红旗——“哈！他带着它飞走了！——老人现在在哪里？哦，亚哈，你看到那景象了！——颤抖，颤抖！

The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads—a downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but intending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way a little sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining the profoundest silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered against the opposing bow.
船还没有走多远，当桅杆头——一根向下的手臂发出信号时，亚哈知道鲸鱼已经发出声音了；但他打算在下次上升时靠近他，所以在离船只稍稍侧一点的地方继续前进。当汹涌的海浪不断地撞击着对方的船头时，着迷的船员们保持着最深沉的沉默。

‘Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye waves! to their uttermost heads drive them in! ye but strike a thing without a lid; and no coffin and no hearse can be mine:—and hemp only can kill me! Ha! ha!’
‘驱动，用指甲驱动，哦，波浪！尽其所能地驱使他们进去！你们只是敲打一个没有盖子的东西；没有棺材和灵车可以属于我：——只有大麻可以杀死我！哈！哈！'

Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; then quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of ice, swiftly rising to the surface. A low rumbling sound was heard; a subterraneous hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled with trailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise, but obliquely from the sea. Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, it hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back into the deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for an instant like heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower of flakes, leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the marble trunk of the whale.
突然，他们周围的海水慢慢地膨胀成一个大圈。然后迅速隆起，仿佛从一座水下的冰山侧向滑行，迅速升到水面。传来低沉的隆隆声；地下的嗡嗡声；然后所有人都屏住了呼吸；拖着绳子、鱼叉和长矛，一个巨大的物体从海上纵向但倾斜地射出。它笼罩在一层薄薄的薄雾中，在彩虹般的空气中盘旋了一会儿。然后又掉进沼泽深处。海水冲上三十英尺，瞬间像喷泉一样闪烁，然后在一阵片雪花中破碎地沉入水中，在鲸鱼的大理石躯干周围留下了像新牛奶一样的圆形水面。

‘Give way!’ cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward to the attack; but maddened by yesterday’s fresh irons that corroded in him, Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell from heaven. The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad white forehead, beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together; as head on, he came churning his tail among the boats; and once more flailed them apart; spilling out the irons and lances from the two mates’ boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows, but leaving Ahab’s almost without a scar.
“让开！”亚哈向桨手们喊道，小艇们冲锋而出，发起攻击。但莫比·迪克却被昨天腐蚀在他身上的新铁弄得发疯，他似乎被所有从天上掉下来的天使所附身。宽阔的肌腱焊接在他宽阔的白色额头上，在透明的皮肤下，看起来像是编织在一起的。当他迎面而来时，尾巴在小船上搅动着。并再次将他们打散；亚哈的船几乎没有留下任何伤痕，他从两个副手的船上扔出了铁杆和长矛，猛冲到他们船头上部的一侧。

While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as the whale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as he shot by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up. Lashed round and round to the fish’s back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which, during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines around him, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; his sable raiment frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old Ahab.
当达古和奎奎格阻止拉紧的木板时；当鲸鱼从他们身边游出来时，他转身，再次从他们身边射过，露出了整个侧面。就在那一刻，一声急促的哭声响起。一圈又一圈地绑在鱼背上；昨晚，鲸鱼在他周围的绳索中卷绕着，在转弯处旋转，可以看到帕西人半撕裂的身体。他的黑貂衣已磨损成碎片；他那双肿胀的眼睛全神贯注地看着老亚哈。

The harpoon dropped from his hand.
鱼叉从他手中掉落。

‘Befooled, befooled!’—drawing in a long lean breath—‘Aye, Parsee! I see thee again.—Aye, and thou goest before; and this, THIS then is the hearse that thou didst promise. But I hold thee to the last letter of thy word. Where is the second hearse? Away, mates, to the ship! those boats are useless now; repair them if ye can in time, and return to me; if not, Ahab is enough to die—Down, men! the first thing that but offers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon. Ye are not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.—Where’s the whale? gone down again?’
“被愚弄了，被愚弄了！”——长长地吸了一口气——“是的，帕西人！我又见到你了。——是的，你走在前面；这，这就是你答应的灵车。但我要求你遵守你的话中的最后一个字母。第二辆灵车在哪里？出发吧，伙伴们，上船吧！那些船现在已经没用了；如果可以及时修复它们，然后返回给我；如果不是，亚哈就够死了——打倒，伙计们！第一个要从我所站的船上跳下来的东西，就是我用鱼叉叉住的东西。你们不是别人，而是我的胳膊和腿；所以请服从我。——鲸鱼在哪里？又下去了吗？

But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with the corpse he bore, and as if the particular place of the last encounter had been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now again steadily swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship,—which thus far had been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with his utmost velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the sea.
但他看得太近了船；因为，莫比·迪克似乎一心想带着尸体逃走，又好像最后一次相遇的地方只是他下风航行中的一个阶段，现在，莫比·迪克又稳步向前游动了。几乎就超过了那艘船——到目前为止，这艘船一直在与他相反的方向航行，尽管目前她的前进已经停止了。他似乎以最快的速度游泳，现在只专注于在海中追寻自己的直线路径。

‘Oh! Ahab,’ cried Starbuck, ‘not too late is it, even now, the third day, to desist. See! Moby Dick seeks thee not. It is thou, thou, that madly seekest him!’
'哦！亚哈，”斯塔巴克喊道，“即使是现在，第三天，停止也还不算太晚。看！白鲸并不寻找你。是你，你，疯狂地寻找他！

Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled to leeward, by both oars and canvas. And at last when Ahab was sliding by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck’s face as he leaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and follow him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval. Glancing upwards, he saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three mast-heads; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats which had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in repairing them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as he sped, he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying themselves on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. As he saw all this; as he heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers seemed driving a nail into his heart. But he rallied. And now marking that the vane or flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to Tashtego, who had just gained that perch, to descend again for another flag, and a hammer and nails, and so nail it to the mast.
迎风而起，孤舟迅速被桨和帆布推向下风处。最后，当亚哈滑过船只时，当他靠在栏杆上时，他几乎可以清楚地辨认出星巴克的脸，他向他招呼，让他把船只调转过来，然后跟随他，不要太快，以明智的间隔。他向上一看，看到塔什泰戈、奎奎格和达古正急切地爬上三个桅杆头。而桨手们则在刚刚被吊到一边的两艘木条船上摇晃着，忙着修理它们。当他加速时，透过舷窗，他一个接一个地瞥见了斯塔布和弗拉斯克，他们在甲板上忙着一堆新的熨斗和长矛。当他看到这一切时；当他听到破船上的锤子声时；其他的锤子似乎把钉子钉进了他的心。但他重整旗鼓。现在，他注意到风向标或旗帜已经从主桅杆上消失了，他对刚刚登上那个位置的塔什特戈大喊，让他再次下降，拿另一面旗帜，并用锤子和钉子，然后将其钉在桅杆上。 。

Whether fagged by the three days’ running chase, and the resistance to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether it was some latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, the White Whale’s way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidly nearing him once more; though indeed the whale’s last start had not been so long a one as before. And still as Ahab glided over the waves the unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to the boat; and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the blades became jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at almost every dip.
是否因三天的追逐而疲惫不堪，以及在他背着的打结的篮子里游泳时的阻力；又或者是他身上潜藏着某种欺骗和恶意：不管哪一个是真的，白鲸的航程似乎开始减弱，因为船再次如此迅速地靠近他；事实上，鲸鱼最后一次出发的时间并不像以前那么长。当亚哈在海浪上滑行时，无情的鲨鱼陪伴着他。就这样执着地坚持在船上；如此不断地咬着航行的桨，以至于桨叶变得锯齿状、嘎吱作响，几乎每次下沉时都会在海里留下小碎片。

‘Heed them not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars. Pull on! ‘tis the better rest, the shark’s jaw than the yielding water.’
‘别理他们！这些牙齿，但为你的桨提供了新的桨锁。拉上来！ “鲨鱼的下巴比平静的水更好的休息。”

‘But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!’
“但是，先生，每咬一口，薄刀片就会变得越来越小！”

‘They will last long enough! pull on!—But who can tell’—he muttered—‘whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on Ahab?—But pull on! Aye, all alive, now—we near him. The helm! take the helm! let me pass,’—and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward to the bows of the still flying boat.
‘它们会持续足够长的时间！坚持下去！——但是谁能说得清”——他嘀咕道——“这些鲨鱼到底是为了吃鲸鱼还是为了吃亚哈？——但是坚持下去！是的，现在，我们都还活着——我们就在他身边。掌舵！掌舵！让我过去吧，”——两个桨手边说边扶着他走到仍在飞行的船的船头。

At length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along with the White Whale’s flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its advance—as the whale sometimes will—and Ahab was fairly within the smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale’s spout, curled round his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when, with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to the poise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into the hated whale. As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as if sucked into a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled his nigh flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so suddenly canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated part of the gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have been tossed into the sea. As it was, three of the oarsmen—who foreknew not the precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for its effects—these were flung out; but so fell, that, in an instant two of them clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its level on a combing wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man helplessly dropping astern, but still afloat and swimming.
最后，当飞船被抛到一边，沿着白鲸的侧翼行驶时，他似乎奇怪地没有注意到它的前进——就像鲸鱼有时会做的那样——而亚哈正好处于烟雾缭绕的山雾之中，雾气从鲸鱼的喷口卷曲在莫纳德诺克巨大的驼峰周围；他离他竟然这么近；当他身体向后弓起，双臂纵向高举至平衡状态时，他将凶猛的铁棍和更为凶猛的咒语射入了那头可恶的鲸鱼身上。当钢铁和诅咒同时沉入插座时，莫比迪克就像被吸入沼泽一样，侧身扭动起来；痉挛般地用他的近侧侧翼抵住船头，并且没有在上面留下一个洞，突然将船倾斜了，如果不是因为他随后抓住了船舷的升高部分，亚哈将再次被抛起进入大海。事实上，三名桨手——他们并不知道飞镖的准确时刻，因此对它的效果没有做好准备——这些桨手被扔了出去；但是，他们一下子就跌倒了，其中有两个人立刻又抓住了船舷，随着汹涌的波浪上升到了船舷的高度，然后又把自己的身体扔到了船内。第三个人无助地落在船尾，但仍在漂浮并游泳。

Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated, instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering sea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with the line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air!
几乎同时，白鲸以一种无级的、瞬间的速度的强大意志，在汹涌的大海中猛冲过去。但是，当亚哈向舵手大声喊叫，要求他重新拉绳子并保持住绳子时；并命令船员们在座位上转身，把船拖到目标处。当那条危险的线感受到双重张力和拉力的那一刻，它在空中断裂了！

‘What breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!—‘tis whole again; oars! oars! Burst in upon him!’
‘是什么让我崩溃了？一些筋裂了！——又完整了；桨！桨！冲向他！

Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled round to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution, catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing in it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it—it may be—a larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancing prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.
鲸鱼听到海面冲撞船的巨大冲击声，转过身来，露出了他那空白的额头。但在那个演变中，看到了接近的黑色船体；似乎从中看到了他所有迫害的根源；想想看——它可能是——一个更大、更崇高的敌人；突然，他猛地冲向了它前进的船头，在炽热的泡沫雨中咬住了下巴。

Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead. ‘I grow blind; hands! stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way. Is’t night?’
亚哈摇摇晃晃。他的手抚摸着额头。 ‘我失明了；双手！在我面前伸展开来，让我可以摸索出路。不是晚上吗？

‘The whale! The ship!’ cried the cringing oarsmen.
'鲸鱼！船！”桨手们畏缩地喊道。

‘Oars! oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! I see: the ship! the ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?’
‘桨！桨！大海啊，向下倾斜到你的深处，以免为时已晚，亚哈可能最后一次滑向他的目标！我看到：船！船！冲吧，我的男人们！你们不救我的船吗？

But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the sledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks burst through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat lay nearly level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, trying hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water.
但当桨手们猛烈地迫使他们的船穿过大锤击打的大海时，两块木板之前被鲸鱼击中的船头突然冲破了，几乎在一瞬间，暂时瘫痪的船几乎与波浪平齐了；船员们半涉水，溅起水花，努力堵住缺口，把倾泻而下的水舀出来。

Meantime, for that one beholding instant, Tashtego’s mast-head hammer remained suspended in his hand; and the red flag, half-wrapping him as with a plaid, then streamed itself straight out from him, as his own forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon the bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soon as he.
与此同时，在那一瞬间，塔什泰戈的桅顶锤仍然悬在他的手中；红旗像格子布一样将他半包裹起来，然后从他身上径直流淌出来，就像他自己向前流动的心一样。而斯塔巴克和斯塔布站在下面的船首斜桅上，刚一看到他，就看到了正在降临的怪物。

‘The whale, the whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, all ye sweet powers of air, now hug me close! Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a woman’s fainting fit. Up helm, I say—ye fools, the jaw! the jaw! Is this the end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities? Oh, Ahab, Ahab, lo, thy work. Steady! helmsman, steady. Nay, nay! Up helm again! He turns to meet us! Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on towards one, whose duty tells him he cannot depart. My God, stand by me now!’
‘鲸鱼，鲸鱼！掌舵，掌舵！哦，所有可爱的空气力量，现在拥抱我吧！别让星巴克死了，如果他必须死的话，他会死在一个女人的昏厥中。掌舵，我说——你们这些傻瓜，下巴！下巴！我所有的祈祷就这样结束了吗？我一生的忠诚？哦，亚哈，亚哈，瞧，你的工作。稳定的！舵手，稳重。不，不！再次掌舵！他转身迎接我们！哦，他那无法平息的眉头直逼着一个人，这个人的职责告诉他他不能离开。天哪，现在就站在我这边吧！”

‘Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now help Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. I grin at thee, thou grinning whale! Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb’s own unwinking eye? And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is all too soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood! I grin at thee, thou grinning whale! Look ye, sun, moon, and stars! I call ye assassins of as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, I would yet ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup! Oh, oh! oh, oh! thou grinning whale, but there’ll be plenty of gulping soon! Why fly ye not, O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in his drawers! A most mouldy and over salted death, though;—cherries! cherries! cherries! Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!’
“不要站在我身边，而是站在我下面，无论你是谁，现在都会帮助斯塔布；对于斯塔布来说，也坚持在这里。我对你微笑，你这微笑的鲸鱼！谁曾经帮助过斯塔布，或者让斯塔布保持清醒，除了斯塔布自己那双眼睛一眨不眨的眼睛之外？现在可怜的斯塔布睡在太软的床垫上；里面塞满了灌木丛吗！我对你微笑，你这微笑的鲸鱼！看，太阳、月亮和星星！我称你们为暗杀者，他们是一个曾经滔滔不绝地吐露鬼魂的好人。尽管如此，我还是愿意和你们一起碰杯，你们愿意递杯子吗？哦，哦！哦，哦！你这头咧着嘴笑的鲸鱼，不过很快就会有很多人大口大口地吞咽下去！亚哈啊，你为什么不飞翔呢？对我来说，脱掉鞋子和外套就可以了；让斯塔布死在他的抽屉里吧！然而，这是一种最发霉、盐分过多的死亡；——樱桃！樱桃！樱桃！哦，弗拉斯克，在我们死之前，为了一颗红樱桃！”

‘Cherries? I only wish that we were where they grow. Oh, Stubb, I hope my poor mother’s drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers will now come to her, for the voyage is up.’
'樱桃？我只希望我们在他们生长的地方。噢，斯塔布，我希望我可怜的母亲在此之前就已经领取了我的部分工资；如果没有，现在很少有铜人会来找她，因为航程已经结束了。

From the ship’s bows, nearly all the seamen now hung inactive; hammers, bits of plank, lances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in their hands, just as they had darted from their various employments; all their enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which from side to side strangely vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band of overspreading semicircular foam before him as he rushed. Retribution, swift vengeance, eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of all that mortal man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship’s starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled. Some fell flat upon their faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook on their bull-like necks. Through the breach, they heard the waters pour, as mountain torrents down a flume.
船头的几乎所有海员现在都一动不动。锤子、木板碎片、长矛和鱼叉，机械地保留在他们手中，就像他们从各种工作中飞奔出来一样；他们所有的迷人目光都集中在鲸鱼身上，鲸鱼奇怪地左右摇晃着他命中注定的头，当他冲过去时，在他面前喷出了一大片半圆形的泡沫。报应、迅速的复仇、永恒的恶意充斥着他的整个面容，尽管凡人能做的一切，他前额坚固的白色支柱撞击着船的右舷船头，直到人和木头都摇晃起来。有些人脸朝下摔倒。就像脱轨的卡车一样，高处的标枪手的头在公牛般的脖子上摇晃。他们听到水从缺口处倾泻而下，就像山洪从水槽中倾泻而下。

‘The ship! The hearse!—the second hearse!’ cried Ahab from the boat; ‘its wood could only be American!’
‘船！ “灵车！——第二辆灵车！”亚哈在船上喊道。 “它的木材只能是美国的！”

Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab’s boat, where, for a time, he lay quiescent.
鲸鱼潜入沉降的船下方，沿着龙骨颤抖着奔跑。但他在水下转身，迅速再次浮出水面，远离另一艘船头，但距离亚哈的船只有几码，有一段时间，他静静地躺在那里。

‘I turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy hammer. Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and only god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed prow,—death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and without me? Am I cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains? Oh, lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feel my topmost greatness lies in my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all your furthest bounds, pour ye now in, ye bold billows of my whole foregone life, and top this one piled comber of my death! Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell’s heart I stab at thee; for hate’s sake I spit my last breath at thee. Sink all coffins and all hearses to one common pool! and since neither can be mine, let me then tow to pieces, while still chasing thee, though tied to thee, thou damned whale! THUS, I give up the spear!’
“我把身体转离太阳。哎哟，塔什泰戈！让我听听你的锤子。哦！你们是我的三个不屈服的尖塔；你完好无损的龙骨；也只有被上帝欺负的船体；你坚固的甲板、傲慢的舵、尖头的船头——死亡光荣的船！那么你们就必须在没有我的情况下灭亡吗？我是否与最卑鄙的遇难船长最后的骄傲隔绝了？哦，孤独的生，孤独的死！哦，现在我觉得我最大的伟大在于我最大的悲伤。嗬嗬！现在，从你们最远的界限里，把我已逝的一生的大胆巨浪倾注进来，把我死亡的这一堆堆积起来的浪涛顶上！我向你翻滚，你这毁灭一切却不可战胜的鲸鱼；我与你搏斗到底；我从地狱的心刺向你；为了仇恨，我向你吐出了最后一口气。将所有棺材和灵车沉入一个公共水池！既然两者都不属于我，那就让我把你拖成碎片，同时仍然追赶你，尽管与你绑在一起，你这该死的鲸鱼！因此，我放弃了长矛！

The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with igniting velocity the line ran through the grooves;—ran foul. Ahab stooped to clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the neck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, the heavy eye-splice in the rope’s final end flew out of the stark-empty tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its depths.
鱼叉被射出；受伤的鲸鱼向前飞去；绳子以惊人的速度穿过凹槽；——发生故障。亚哈弯腰清理它；他确实清除了它；但飞快的转弯抓住了他的脖子，当土耳其哑巴用弓箭射向受害者时，他无声地被射出了船，船员们还没意识到他已经走了。下一瞬间，绳子末端的沉重的接头从空荡荡的浴缸里飞了出来，击倒了一名桨手，击打大海，消失在大海深处。

For an instant, the tranced boat’s crew stood still; then turned. ‘The ship? Great God, where is the ship?’ Soon they through dim, bewildering mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata Morgana; only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by infatuation, or fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, the pagan harpooneers still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea. And now, concentric circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its crew, and each floating oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning, animate and inanimate, all round and round in one vortex, carried the smallest chip of the Pequod out of sight.
一瞬间，恍惚的船上的船员们一动不动地站着。然后转身。 ‘船？伟大的上帝，那艘船在哪里？很快，他们通过昏暗、令人困惑的媒介看到了她侧向褪色的幻影，就像在气态的海摩根纳中一样；只有最上面的桅杆露出水面；尽管出于迷恋、忠诚或命运，异教鱼叉手仍坚守在曾经崇高的栖息地，但他们仍然保持着对海上下沉的瞭望。现在，同心圆抓住了这艘孤独的小船，以及它的所有船员，每一根漂浮的桨，每一根矛杆，旋转着，有生命的和无生命的，在一个漩涡中一圈又一圈，把裴廓德号上最小的碎片带了出来。的视线。

But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag, which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying billows they almost touched;—at that instant, a red arm and a hammer hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there; this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill, the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic shrieks, and his imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive form folded in the flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like Satan, would not sink to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her, and helmeted herself with it.
但当最后的重击混合地倾倒在主桅处印第安人凹陷的头上时，留下几英寸的直立桅杆仍然可见，连同长长的飘动的旗帜一起，旗帜平静地波动，具有讽刺意味的巧合，在毁灭性的上方。就在这时，一只红色的手臂和一把锤子在空中向后举起，正在将旗帜越来越快地钉在下沉的桅杆上。一只天鹰嘲讽地跟随主卡车从它在星空中的自然家园下降，啄食旗帜，并在那里打扰了塔什特戈；这只鸟现在碰巧在锤子和木头之间拦截了它宽阔的翅膀。同时感受到那空灵的颤栗，被淹没在水下的野蛮人，在他垂死的喘息中，将他的锤子冻结在那里；于是，天堂之鸟伴随着大天使般的尖叫声，他那帝国般的喙向上伸出，他整个俘虏的身躯都被亚哈的旗帜包裹着，与他的船一起沉没了，就像撒旦一样，除非她拖着它，否则它不会沉入地狱。与她一起成为天堂的一部分，并用它给自己戴上头盔。

Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.
现在，小鸟尖叫着飞过尚未张开的海湾；阴沉的白色海浪拍打着陡峭的山壁；然后一切都崩溃了，大海的巨大裹尸布像五千年前一样滚动着。

Epilogue
结语

‘AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE’ Job.
“我独自逃脱只是为了告诉你”约伯。

The drama’s done. Why then here does any one step forth?—Because one did survive the wreck.
剧情已经演完了。那么为什么有人要站出来呢？——因为确实有人在沉船事故中幸存下来。

It so chanced, that after the Parsee’s disappearance, I was he whom the Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab’s bowsman, when that bowsman assumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day the three men were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So, floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it, when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then, but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached it, it had subsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, then, and ever contracting towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling circle, like another Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining that vital centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by reason of its cunning spring, and, owing to its great buoyancy, rising with great force, the coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from the sea, fell over, and floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost one whole day and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. The unharming sharks, they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths; the savage sea-hawks sailed with sheathed beaks. On the second day, a sail drew near, nearer, and picked me up at last. It was the devious-cruising Rachel, that in her retracing search after her missing children, only found another orphan.
碰巧的是，帕西人失踪后，命运命定我来接替亚哈的弓箭手，而那个弓箭手接替了空缺的职位；最后一天，当三人被从摇摇晃晃的船上抛出时，他也被扔到了船尾。因此，漂浮在接下来的场景的边缘，在完全看到它的情况下，当沉船的一半吸力到达我身边时，我慢慢地被吸引向正在关闭的漩涡。当我到达那里时，它已经变成了一个奶油色的水池。然后，一圈又一圈，不断向那个缓慢旋转的圆圈轴上的纽扣状黑色气泡收缩，就像我旋转的另一个伊克西翁一样。直到到达那个要害中心，黑色的气泡向上破裂；现在，棺材救生圈由于其巧妙的弹簧而被释放，并且由于其巨大的浮力，以巨大的力量上升，棺材救生圈从海上纵向射出，翻倒并漂浮在我身边。在那副棺材的支撑下，我几乎一整天一夜都漂浮在轻柔而哀歌般的主线上。那些无害的鲨鱼，它们滑过，就像嘴上挂着挂锁一样；野蛮的海鹰用带鞘的喙航行。第二天，一艘船帆越来越近，越来越近，终于接住了我。正是狡猾的雷切尔在寻找失踪的孩子时，却发现了另一个孤儿。