
Pollyanna
盲目乐观

By Eleanor H. Porter
作者：埃莉诺·H·波特

TO

My Cousin Belle
我的表姐贝儿

CHAPTER I. MISS POLLY
第一章 波莉小姐

Miss Polly Harrington entered her kitchen a little hurriedly this June morning. Miss Polly did not usually make hurried movements; she specially prided herself on her repose of manner. But to-day she was hurrying—actually hurrying.
今年六月的早晨，波莉·哈灵顿小姐有点匆忙地走进了厨房。波莉小姐通常不会做出匆忙的动作。她特别为自己平静的举止感到自豪。但今天她很着急——确实很着急。

Nancy, washing dishes at the sink, looked up in surprise. Nancy had been working in Miss Polly’s kitchen only two months, but already she knew that her mistress did not usually hurry.
正在水槽边洗碗的南希惊讶地抬起头。南希在波莉小姐的厨房工作才两个月，但她已经知道她的女主人通常不会着急。

‘Nancy!’
“南希！”

‘Yes, ma’am.’ Nancy answered cheerfully, but she still continued wiping the pitcher in her hand.
“是的，女士。”南希高兴地回答，但她仍然继续擦拭手中的水罐。

‘Nancy,’—Miss Polly’s voice was very stern now—‘when I’m talking to you, I wish you to stop your work and listen to what I have to say.’
“南希，”——波莉小姐的声音现在非常严厉——“当我和你说话时，我希望你停下手头的工作，听听我要说的话。”

Nancy flushed miserably. She set the pitcher down at once, with the cloth still about it, thereby nearly tipping it over—which did not add to her composure.
南希脸红得很厉害。她立刻把水罐放下，上面还裹着布，差点把水罐翻倒——但这并没有让她平静下来。

‘Yes, ma’am; I will, ma’am,’ she stammered, righting the pitcher, and turning hastily. ‘I was only keepin’ on with my work ‘cause you specially told me this mornin’ ter hurry with my dishes, ye know.’
'是的女士;我会的，女士，”她结结巴巴地说，一边扶正水罐，一边急忙转身。 “我只是继续工作，因为你今天早上特地告诉我要快点洗碗，你知道。”

Her mistress frowned.
她的女主人皱起了眉头。

‘That will do, Nancy. I did not ask for explanations. I asked for your attention.’
“那就行了，南希。我没有要求解释。我请你注意。

‘Yes, ma’am.’ Nancy stifled a sigh. She was wondering if ever in any way she could please this woman. Nancy had never ‘worked out’ before; but a sick mother suddenly widowed and left with three younger children besides Nancy herself, had forced the girl into doing something toward their support, and she had been so pleased when she found a place in the kitchen of the great house on the hill—Nancy had come from ‘The Corners,’ six miles away, and she knew Miss Polly Harrington only as the mistress of the old Harrington homestead, and one of the wealthiest residents of the town. That was two months before. She knew Miss Polly now as a stern, severe-faced woman who frowned if a knife clattered to the floor, or if a door banged—but who never thought to smile even when knives and doors were still.
“是的，女士。”南希屏住了叹息。她想知道是否可以以任何方式取悦这个女人。南希以前从未“锻炼过”。但是，一位生病的母亲突然丧偶，除了南希本人之外，还带着三个年幼的孩子，迫使这个女孩做一些事情来支持他们，当她在山上那座大房子的厨房里找到一个地方时，她感到非常高兴——南希她来自六英里外的“角落”，她只知道波莉·哈灵顿小姐是老哈灵顿庄园的女主人，也是镇上最富有的居民之一。那是两个月前的事了。她现在知道波莉小姐是一个严厉、表情严肃的女人，如果刀掉在地板上，或者门砰地一声关上，她就会皱起眉头——但即使刀和门都静止不动，她也从没想过微笑。

‘When you’ve finished your morning work, Nancy,’ Miss Polly was saying now, ‘you may clear the little room at the head of the stairs in the attic, and make up the cot bed. Sweep the room and clean it, of course, after you clear out the trunks and boxes.’
“南希，当你完成早晨的工作后，”波莉小姐现在说道，“你可以清理阁楼楼梯口的小房间，并整理婴儿床。当然，在清理完行李箱和箱子之后，还要打扫房间并打扫干净。

‘Yes, ma’am. And where shall I put the things, please, that I take out?’
'是的女士。请问我取出的东西该放在哪里？

‘In the front attic.’ Miss Polly hesitated, then went on: ‘I suppose I may as well tell you now, Nancy. My niece, Miss Pollyanna Whittier, is coming to live with me. She is eleven years old, and will sleep in that room.’
“在前面的阁楼上。”波莉小姐犹豫了一下，然后继续说道：“我想我还是现在告诉你吧，南希。我的侄女波莉安娜·惠蒂尔小姐要来和我住在一起。她十一岁了，会睡在那个房间里。”

‘A little girl—coming here, Miss Harrington? Oh, won’t that be nice!’ cried Nancy, thinking of the sunshine her own little sisters made in the home at ‘The Corners.’
“一个小女孩——来这里吗，哈灵顿小姐？哦，那不是很好吗！”南希喊道，她想起了她自己的小妹妹们在“角落”家里晒出的阳光。

‘Nice? Well, that isn’t exactly the word I should use,’ rejoined Miss Polly, stiffly. ‘However, I intend to make the best of it, of course. I am a good woman, I hope; and I know my duty.’
'好的？嗯，这不完全是我应该用的词。”波莉小姐生硬地回答道。 “不过，当然，我打算充分利用它。我希望我是一个好女人；我知道我的职责。

Nancy colored hotly.
南希脸色火红。

‘Of course, ma’am; it was only that I thought a little girl here might—might brighten things up for you,’ she faltered.
“当然，女士； “我只是觉得这里的一个小女孩可能——可能会让你的生活变得更加美好。”她结结巴巴地说。

‘Thank you,’ rejoined the lady, dryly. ‘I can’t say, however, that I see any immediate need for that.’
“谢谢你，”那位女士干巴巴地回答道。 “但是，我不能说我认为有任何迫切的需要。”

‘But, of course, you—you’d want her, your sister’s child,’ ventured Nancy, vaguely feeling that somehow she must prepare a welcome for this lonely little stranger.
“但是，当然，你——你会想要她，你姐姐的孩子，”南希大胆地说，她隐约觉得她必须为这个孤独的小陌生人准备一个欢迎仪式。

Miss Polly lifted her chin haughtily.
波莉小姐傲慢地抬起下巴。

‘Well, really, Nancy, just because I happened to have a sister who was silly enough to marry and bring unnecessary children into a world that was already quite full enough, I can’t see how I should particularly WANT to have the care of them myself. However, as I said before, I hope I know my duty. See that you clean the corners, Nancy,’ she finished sharply, as she left the room.
“嗯，说真的，南希，只是因为我碰巧有一个姐姐，她傻到结婚并生下不必要的孩子，来到一个已经足够充实的世界，我不明白我应该如何特别想要得到照顾他们我自己。然而，正如我之前所说，我希望我知道自己的职责。南希，注意把角落打扫干净。”她离开房间时尖锐地说道。

‘Yes, ma’am,’ sighed Nancy, picking up the half-dried pitcher—now so cold it must be rinsed again.
“是的，女士，”南希叹了口气，拿起半干的水罐——现在这么冷，必须再次冲洗。

In her own room, Miss Polly took out once more the letter which she had received two days before from the far-away Western town, and which had been so unpleasant a surprise to her. The letter was addressed to Miss Polly Harrington, Beldingsville, Vermont; and it read as follows:
在自己的房间里，波莉小姐再次拿出了两天前从遥远的西部小镇收到的信，这封信让她感到非常不愉快和意外。这封信的收件人是佛蒙特州贝尔丁斯维尔的波莉·哈林顿小姐。内容如下：

‘Dear Madam:—I regret to inform you that the Rev. John Whittier died two weeks ago, leaving one child, a girl eleven years old. He left practically nothing else save a few books; for, as you doubtless know, he was the pastor of this small mission church, and had a very meagre salary.
“亲爱的女士：——我很遗憾地通知您，约翰·惠蒂尔牧师两周前去世，留下一个孩子，一个十一岁的女孩。除了几本书外，他几乎什么也没留下。因为，你无疑知道，他是这个小型宣教教堂的牧师，薪水非常微薄。

‘I believe he was your deceased sister’s husband, but he gave me to understand the families were not on the best of terms. He thought, however, that for your sister’s sake you might wish to take the child and bring her up among her own people in the East. Hence I am writing to you.
“我相信他是你已故姐姐的丈夫，但他让我了解到，这些家庭的关系并不好。不过，他想，看在你妹妹的份上，你不妨把这个孩子带到东方，和她自己的同胞一起抚养长大。因此我写信给你。

‘The little girl will be all ready to start by the time you get this letter; and if you can take her, we would appreciate it very much if you would write that she might come at once, as there is a man and his wife here who are going East very soon, and they would take her with them to Boston, and put her on the Beldingsville train. Of course you would be notified what day and train to expect Pollyanna on. Pollyanna
‘当你收到这封信时，小女孩已经准备好出发了；如果你能带她去，如果你能写信说她可能马上来，我们将非常感激，因为这里有一对夫妇很快就要前往东部，他们会带她一起去波士顿，然后把她送上贝尔丁斯维尔的火车当然，您会收到通知，预计 Pollyanna 的出发日期和火车时间。盲目乐观

‘Hoping to hear favorably from you soon, I remain, ‘Respectfully yours, ‘Jeremiah O. White.’
“希望很快能收到您的满意答复，我继续说道：‘尊敬的，‘耶利米·O·怀特’。”

With a frown Miss Polly folded the letter and tucked it into its envelope. She had answered it the day before, and she had said she would take the child, of course. She HOPED she knew her duty well enough for that!—disagreeable as the task would be.
波莉小姐皱着眉头把信折好，塞进信封里。她前一天就已经回复了，而且还说她当然会带走孩子。她希望她足够清楚自己的职责！——尽管这项任务是令人不愉快的。

As she sat now, with the letter in her hands, her thoughts went back to her sister, Jennie, who had been this child’s mother, and to the time when Jennie, as a girl of twenty, had insisted upon marrying the young minister, in spite of her family’s remonstrances. There had been a man of wealth who had wanted her—and the family had much preferred him to the minister; but Jennie had not. The man of wealth had more years, as well as more money, to his credit, while the minister had only a young head full of youth’s ideals and enthusiasm, and a heart full of love. Jennie had preferred these—quite naturally, perhaps; so she had married the minister, and had gone south with him as a home missionary’s wife.
当她手里拿着那封信坐着时，她的思绪回到了她的妹妹珍妮，她是这个孩子的母亲，以及珍妮作为一个二十岁的女孩坚持嫁给年轻牧师的时候，不顾家人的反对。有一个有钱人想要她——而且家人更喜欢他而不是牧师；但珍妮没有。富翁有更多的岁月，也有更多的金钱，而大臣只有一颗充满青春理想和热情的年轻头脑，一颗充满爱心的心。珍妮更喜欢这些——也许这是很自然的事。于是她嫁给了牧师，并作为家庭传教士的妻子与他一起南下。

The break had come then. Miss Polly remembered it well, though she had been but a girl of fifteen, the youngest, at the time. The family had had little more to do with the missionary’s wife. To be sure, Jennie herself had written, for a time, and had named her last baby ‘Pollyanna’ for her two sisters, Polly and Anna—the other babies had all died. This had been the last time that Jennie had written; and in a few years there had come the news of her death, told in a short, but heart-broken little note from the minister himself, dated at a little town in the West.
那时，突破已经到来。波莉小姐记得很清楚，尽管她当时还只是一个十五岁的女孩，是最小的一个。这个家庭与传教士的妻子没有什么关系。可以肯定的是，珍妮本人曾经写过一段时间，并为她的两个姐妹波莉和安娜给她的最后一个孩子命名为“波莉安娜”——其他婴儿都已经去世了。这是珍妮最后一次写信。几年后，她去世的消息传来了，部长本人在西部的一个小镇上写了一封简短而令人心碎的小纸条，告诉她她去世的消息。

Meanwhile, time had not stood still for the occupants of the great house on the hill. Miss Polly, looking out at the far-reaching valley below, thought of the changes those twenty-five years had brought to her.
与此同时，对于山上大房子的居住者来说，时间并没有停止。波莉小姐望着下面远处的山谷，想着这二十五年给她带来的变化。

She was forty now, and quite alone in the world. Father, mother, sisters—all were dead. For years, now, she had been sole mistress of the house and of the thousands left her by her father. There were people who had openly pitied her lonely life, and who had urged her to have some friend or companion to live with her; but she had not welcomed either their sympathy or their advice. She was not lonely, she said. She liked being by herself. She preferred quiet. But now—
她现在四十岁了，在这个世界上孤身一人。父亲、母亲、姐妹——全都死了。多年来，她一直是这所房子以及她父亲留给她的数千人的唯一女主人。有人公开同情她孤独的生活，并敦促她找一些朋友或伴侣与她住在一起；但她既不接受他们的同情，也不接受他们的建议。她说，她并不孤独。她喜欢独自一人。她更喜欢安静。但现在-

Miss Polly rose with frowning face and closely-shut lips. She was glad, of course, that she was a good woman, and that she not only knew her duty, but had sufficient strength of character to perform it. But—POLLYANNA!—what a ridiculous name!
波莉小姐站起来，皱着眉头，嘴唇紧闭。当然，她很高兴自己是一个好女人，不仅知道自己的职责，而且有足够的性格力量去履行它。但是——波莉安娜！——多么可笑的名字啊！

CHAPTER II. OLD TOM AND NANCY
第二章。老汤姆和南希

In the little attic room Nancy swept and scrubbed vigorously, paying particular attention to the corners. There were times, indeed, when the vigor she put into her work was more of a relief to her feelings than it was an ardor to efface dirt—Nancy, in spite of her frightened submission to her mistress, was no saint.
在小小的阁楼房间里，南希用力扫地、擦洗，特别注意角落。事实上，有时候，她在工作中投入的精力更多的是缓解自己的感情，而不是消除污垢的热情——南希，尽管她害怕服从她的情妇，但她并不是圣人。

‘I—just—wish—I could—dig—out the corners—of—her—soul!’ she muttered jerkily, punctuating her words with murderous jabs of her pointed cleaning-stick. ‘There’s plenty of ‘em needs cleanin’ all right, all right! The idea of stickin’ that blessed child ‘way off up here in this hot little room—with no fire in the winter, too, and all this big house ter pick and choose from! Unnecessary children, indeed! Humph!’ snapped Nancy, wringing her rag so hard her fingers ached from the strain; ‘I guess it ain’t CHILDREN what is MOST unnecessary just now, just now!
“我——只是——希望——我能——挖出她——灵魂的——角落！”她急促地嘟哝着，用她尖头的清洁棒凶狠地猛击着她的话。 “有很多东西需要清理”好吧，好吧！把那个有福的孩子留在远离这里的这个炎热的小房间里——冬天也没有火，所有这些大房子都可以挑选！确实是不需要的孩子！哼！”南希厉声说道，用力地拧着抹布，手指都因用力而疼痛。 “我想现在最不必要的不​​是孩子，只是现在！”

For some time she worked in silence; then, her task finished, she looked about the bare little room in plain disgust.
有一段时间，她默默地工作着。然后，她的任务完成了，她带着明显的厌恶环视着这个空荡荡的小房间。

‘Well, it’s done—my part, anyhow,’ she sighed. ‘There ain’t no dirt here—and there’s mighty little else. Poor little soul!—a pretty place this is ter put a homesick, lonesome child into!’ she finished, going out and closing the door with a bang, ‘Oh!’ she ejaculated, biting her lip. Then, doggedly: ‘Well, I don’t care. I hope she did hear the bang,—I do, I do!’
“好吧，已经完成了——无论如何，我的部分已经完成了，”她叹了口气。 “这里没有一点泥土——而且也没有什么别的东西。”可怜的小灵魂！——这是一个美丽的地方，适合把一个想家的、孤独的孩子放进去！”她说完，走出去，砰地关上门，“哦！”她咬着嘴唇，喊道。然后，固执地说道：“好吧，我不在乎。”我希望她确实听到了爆炸声——我听到了，我听到了！

In the garden that afternoon, Nancy found a few minutes in which to interview Old Tom, who had pulled the weeds and shovelled the paths about the place for uncounted years.
那天下午，南希在花园里抽出了几分钟时间采访了老汤姆，他已经在这个地方拔除杂草、铲平道路无数年了。

‘Mr. Tom,’ began Nancy, throwing a quick glance over her shoulder to make sure she was unobserved; ‘did you know a little girl was comin’ here ter live with Miss Polly?’
'先生。 “汤姆，”南希开始说道，同时快速地回头看了一眼，以确保自己没有被注意到。 “你知道有一个小女孩要来这里和波莉小姐住在一起吗？”

‘A—what?’ demanded the old man, straightening his bent back with difficulty.
“什么——什么？”老人艰难地直起驼背，问道。

‘A little girl—to live with Miss Polly.’
“一个小女孩——和波莉小姐住在一起。”

‘Go on with yer jokin’,’ scoffed unbelieving Tom. ‘Why don’t ye tell me the sun is a-goin’ ter set in the east ter-morrer?’
“继续你的笑话吧。”不相信的汤姆嘲笑道。 “你为什么不告诉我太阳已经从东方落下呢？”

‘But it’s true. She told me so herself,’ maintained Nancy. ‘It’s her niece; and she’s eleven years old.’
‘但这是真的。她自己告诉我的，”南希坚持说。 “这是她的侄女；她十一岁了。

The man’s jaw fell.
男人的下巴都掉下来了。

‘Sho!—I wonder, now,’ he muttered; then a tender light came into his faded eyes. ‘It ain’t—but it must be—Miss Jennie’s little gal! There wasn’t none of the rest of ‘em married. Why, Nancy, it must be Miss Jennie’s little gal. Glory be ter praise! ter think of my old eyes a-seein’ this! ‘
“嘘！——我现在就想知道，”他低声说道。然后，他那双苍白的眼睛里闪现出温柔的光芒。 “这不是——但一定是——珍妮小姐的小姑娘！”其余的人都没有结婚。为什么，南希，这一定是珍妮小姐的小女儿。荣耀归于赞美！想想我的老眼睛看到了这个！ '

‘Who was Miss Jennie?
“珍妮小姐是谁？

‘She was an angel straight out of Heaven,’ breathed the man, fervently; ‘but the old master and missus knew her as their oldest daughter. She was twenty when she married and went away from here long years ago. Her babies all died, I heard, except the last one; and that must be the one what’s a-comin’.’
“她是一位来自天堂的天使，”男人热切地说。 “但是老爷子和夫人都知道她是他们的大女儿。”她结婚时二十岁，多年前就离开了这里。我听说，除了最后一个，她的孩子都死了。那一定就是即将发生的事情。”

‘She’s eleven years old.’
“她十一岁了。”

‘Yes, she might be,’ nodded the old man.
“是的，她可能是，”老人点点头。

‘And she’s goin’ ter sleep in the attic—more shame ter HER!’ scolded Nancy, with another glance over her shoulder toward the house behind her.
“她还要睡在阁楼上——她更丢脸了！”南希斥责道，同时又回头看了一眼身后的房子。

Old Tom frowned. The next moment a curious smile curved his lips.
老汤姆皱起了眉头。下一刻，他的嘴角扬起一抹好奇的微笑。

I’m a-wonderin’ what Miss Polly will do with a child in the house,’ he said.
我很好奇波莉小姐会对家里的孩子做什么，”他说。

‘Humph! Well, I’m a-wonderin’ what a child will do with Miss Polly in the house!’ snapped Nancy.
'哼！嗯，我想知道一个孩子和波莉小姐在家里会做什么！”南希厉声说道。

The old man laughed.
老者笑道。

‘I’m afraid you ain’t fond of Miss Polly,’ he grinned.
“恐怕你不喜欢波莉小姐，”他咧嘴一笑。

‘As if ever anybody could be fond of her!’ scorned Nancy.
“好像有人会喜欢她一样！”南希轻蔑地说。

Old Tom smiled oddly. He stooped and began to work again.
老汤姆奇怪地笑了笑。他弯下腰​​，重新开始工作。

‘I guess maybe you didn’t know about Miss Polly’s love affair,’ he said slowly.
“我猜你可能不知道波莉小姐的恋情，”他慢慢地说。

‘Love affair—HER! No!—and I guess nobody else didn’t, neither.’
‘恋情——她！不！——我想其他人也没有。”

‘Oh, yes they did,’ nodded the old man. ‘And the feller’s livin’ ter-day—right in this town, too.’
“哦，是的，他们做到了，”老人点点头。 “那家伙也住在这个镇上。”

‘Who is he?’
'他是谁？'

‘I ain’t a-tellin’ that. It ain’t fit that I should.’ The old man drew himself erect. In his dim blue eyes, as he faced the house, there was the loyal servant’s honest pride in the family he has served and loved for long years.
“我不是在告诉”这个。我不应该这么做。”老人挺直了身子。当他面向房子时，他那双暗蓝色的眼睛里流露出忠诚仆人对他多年来服务和热爱的家庭的诚实自豪感。

‘But it don’t seem possible—her and a lover,’ still maintained Nancy.
“但这似乎不可能——她和一个情人，”南希仍然坚持道。

Old Tom shook his head.
老汤姆摇摇头。

‘You didn’t know Miss Polly as I did,’ he argued. ‘She used ter be real handsome—and she would be now, if she’d let herself be.’
“你不像我那样了解波莉小姐，”他争辩道。 “她曾经非常英俊——如果她愿意的话，现在也会如此。”

‘Handsome! Miss Polly!’
'英俊的！波莉小姐！

‘Yes. If she’d just let that tight hair of hern all out loose and careless-like, as it used ter be, and wear the sort of bunnits with posies in ‘em, and the kind o’ dresses all lace and white things—you’d see she’d be handsome! Miss Polly ain’t old, Nancy.’
'是的。如果她把她那紧绷的头发像以前一样随意地散开，穿那种里面有花束的兔子，还有那种全是蕾丝和白色衣服的衣服——你看到她会很帅！波莉小姐并不老，南希。

‘Ain’t she, though? Well, then she’s got an awfully good imitation of it—she has, she has!’ sniffed Nancy.
‘可是她不是吗？好吧，那么她模仿得非常好——她模仿了，她模仿了！”南希嗤之以鼻。

‘Yes, I know. It begun then—at the time of the trouble with her lover,’ nodded Old Tom; ‘and it seems as if she’d been feedin’ on wormwood an’ thistles ever since—she’s that bitter an’ prickly ter deal with.’
'是的，我知道。事情就从那时开始——在她与情人发生麻烦的时候。”老汤姆点点头。 “从那时起，她就好像一直以艾草和蓟为食——她是那么的苦涩、多刺。”

‘I should say she was,’ declared Nancy, indignantly. ‘There’s no pleasin’ her, nohow, no matter how you try! I wouldn’t stay if ‘twa’n’t for the wages and the folks at home what’s needin’ ‘em. But some day—some day I shall jest b’ile over; and when I do, of course it’ll be good-by Nancy for me. It will, it will.’
“我应该说她是，”南希愤怒地宣称。 ‘无论如何，无论你怎么努力，都无法取悦她！如果不是为了工资和家里人的需要，我不会留下来。但有一天——有一天我会开玩笑；当我这样做时，当然我会和南希告别。会的，会的。

Old Tom shook his head.
老汤姆摇摇头。

‘I know. I’ve felt it. It’s nart’ral—but ‘tain’t best, child; ‘tain’t best. Take my word for it, ‘tain’t best.’ And again he bent his old head to the work before him.
'我知道。我感觉到了。这很自然——但“不是最好的，孩子；” ‘不是最好的。相信我的话，“这不是最好的。”然后他再次低下了他那老头，开始了他面前的工作。

‘Nancy!’ called a sharp voice.
“南希！”一个尖锐的声音喊道。

‘Y-yes, ma’am,’ stammered Nancy; and hurried toward the house.
“是——是的，女士，”南希结结巴巴地说。并急忙朝房子走去。

CHAPTER III. THE COMING OF POLLYANNA
第三章。波利亚娜的到来

In due time came the telegram announcing that Pollyanna would arrive in Beldingsville the next day, the twenty-fifth of June, at four o’clock. Miss Polly read the telegram, frowned, then climbed the stairs to the attic room. She still frowned as she looked about her.
电报准时送来，宣布波莉安娜将于第二天，六月二十五日，下午四点抵达贝尔丁斯维尔。波莉小姐读完电报，皱起眉头，然后爬上楼梯来到阁楼房间。当她环顾四周时，她仍然皱着眉头。

The room contained a small bed, neatly made, two straight-backed chairs, a washstand, a bureau—without any mirror—and a small table. There were no drapery curtains at the dormer windows, no pictures on the wall. All day the sun had been pouring down upon the roof, and the little room was like an oven for heat. As there were no screens, the windows had not been raised. A big fly was buzzing angrily at one of them now, up and down, up and down, trying to get out.
房间里有一张整理整齐的小床、两把直背椅、一个盥洗台、一个没有镜子的书桌和一张小桌子。老虎窗没有窗帘，墙上也没有画。一整天，阳光都倾泻在屋顶上，这个小房间就像一个取暖的烤箱。由于没有纱窗，窗户也没有升起。一只大苍蝇正对着他们中的一个愤怒地嗡嗡叫，上上下下，上上下下，想要逃走。

Miss Polly killed the fly, swept it through the window (raising the sash an inch for the purpose), straightened a chair, frowned again, and left the room.
波莉小姐打死了苍蝇，把它扫进了窗户（为此将窗带抬高一英寸），拉直椅子，再次皱起眉头，然后离开了房间。

‘Nancy,’ she said a few minutes later, at the kitchen door, ‘I found a fly up-stairs in Miss Pollyanna’s room. The window must have been raised at some time. I have ordered screens, but until they come I shall expect you to see that the windows remain closed. My niece will arrive to-morrow at four o’clock. I desire you to meet her at the station. Timothy will take the open buggy and drive you over. The telegram says ‘light hair, red-checked gingham dress, and straw hat.’ That is all I know, but I think it is sufficient for your purpose.’
“南希，”几分钟后，她在厨房门口说道，“我在楼上波莉安娜小姐的房间里发现了一只苍蝇。窗户肯定在某个时候升起过。我已经订购了纱窗，但在它们到来之前，我希望您能看到窗户保持关闭状态。我的侄女将于明天四点到达。我希望你能在车站接她。蒂莫西会开着敞篷车送你过去。电报上写着“浅色头发、红格子连衣裙和草帽。”我只知道这些，但我认为这足以达到你的目的。

‘Yes, ma’am; but—you—‘
'是的女士;但是你-'

Miss Polly evidently read the pause aright, for she frowned and said crisply:
波莉小姐显然没看错这段停顿，她皱起眉头，干脆地说：

‘No, I shall not go. It is not necessary that I should, I think. That is all.’ And she turned away—Miss Polly’s arrangements for the comfort of her niece, Pollyanna, were complete.
‘不，我不会去。我认为我没有必要这样做。就这样了。”然后她转过身去——波莉小姐为她侄女波莉安娜的舒适所做的安排已经完成。

In the kitchen, Nancy sent her flatiron with a vicious dig across the dish-towel she was ironing.
在厨房里，南希用熨斗狠狠地挖了一下她正在熨烫的抹布。

‘ ‘Light hair, red-checked gingham dress, and straw hat’—all she knows, indeed! Well, I’d be ashamed ter own it up, that I would, I would—and her my onliest niece what was a-comin’ from ‘way across the continent!’
“‘浅色头发、红格子格纹连衣裙和草帽’——她确实只知道这些！好吧，我会羞于承认这一点，我会，我会——而她是我唯一的侄女，她是从“远渡重洋”来到这里的！

Promptly at twenty minutes to four the next afternoon Timothy and Nancy drove off in the open buggy to meet the expected guest. Timothy was Old Tom’s son. It was sometimes said in the town that if Old Tom was Miss Polly’s right-hand man, Timothy was her left.
第二天下午四点差二十分钟，蒂莫西和南希立即开着敞篷马车出发去迎接预期的客人。蒂莫西是老汤姆的儿子。镇上有时有人说，如果老汤姆是波莉小姐的得力助手，那么蒂莫西就是她的左手。

Timothy was a good-natured youth, and a good-looking one, as well. Short as had been Nancy’s stay at the house, the two were already good friends. To-day, however, Nancy was too full of her mission to be her usual talkative self; and almost in silence she took the drive to the station and alighted to wait for the train.
蒂莫西是一位心地善良的年轻人，而且长得也很漂亮。尽管南希在家里待的时间很短，但两人已经成为了好朋友。然而今天，南希忙于自己的使命，不像平常那​​样健谈。她几乎一声不吭地开车去车站，下车等火车。

Over and over in her mind she was saying it ‘light hair, red-checked dress, straw hat.’ Over and over again she was wondering just what sort of child this Pollyanna was, anyway.
她在心里一遍遍地念叨着“浅色头发、红格子连衣裙、草帽”。她一遍又一遍地想，这个波莉安娜到底是个什么样的孩子。

‘I hope for her sake she’s quiet and sensible, and don’t drop knives nor bang doors,’ she sighed to Timothy, who had sauntered up to her.
“我希望她能安静、懂事，不要掉刀子，也不要敲门，”她对向她走来的蒂莫西叹了口气。

‘Well, if she ain’t, nobody knows what’ll become of the rest of us,’ grinned Timothy. ‘Imagine Miss Polly and a NOISY kid! Gorry! there goes the whistle now!’
“好吧，如果她不在，没人知道我们其他人会变成什么样子，”蒂莫西笑着说。 “想象一下波莉小姐和一个吵闹的孩子！天哪！现在哨声响起了！

‘Oh, Timothy, I—I think it was mean ter send me,’ chattered the suddenly frightened Nancy, as she turned and hurried to a point where she could best watch the passengers alight at the little station.
“哦，蒂莫西，我——我想你派我来是很卑鄙的，”南希突然受到惊吓，一边嘀咕着，一边转身匆匆跑到一个可以最好地看着乘客在小车站下车的地方。

It was not long before Nancy saw her—the slender little girl in the red-checked gingham with two fat braids of flaxen hair hanging down her back. Beneath the straw hat, an eager, freckled little face turned to the right and to the left, plainly searching for some one.
没过多久，南希就看到了她——那个穿着红格子格子布的苗条小女孩，两条亚麻色的发辫垂在背上。草帽下，一张满是雀斑的小脸急切地左顾右盼，显然是在寻找着什么人。

Nancy knew the child at once, but not for some time could she control her shaking knees sufficiently to go to her. The little girl was standing quite by herself when Nancy finally did approach her.
南希立刻就认出了这个孩子，但有一段时间她无法控制颤抖的膝盖走向她。当南希终于走近小女孩时，她正独自站着。

‘Are you Miss—Pollyanna?’ she faltered. The next moment she found herself half smothered in the clasp of two gingham-clad arms.
“你是波莉安娜小姐吗？”她结结巴巴地说。下一刻，她发现自己被两只穿着格子布的手臂紧紧地搂住了。

‘Oh, I’m so glad, GLAD, GLAD to see you,’ cried an eager voice in her ear. ‘Of course I’m Pollyanna, and I’m so glad you came to meet me! I hoped you would.’
“哦，我很高兴，很高兴，很高兴见到你，”一个热切的声音在她耳边喊道。 “当然，我是波莉安娜，我很高兴你能来见我！我希望你会的。

‘You—you did?’ stammered Nancy, vaguely wondering how Pollyanna could possibly have known her—and wanted her. ‘You—you did? she repeated, trying to straighten her hat.
“你——你做到了？”南希结结巴巴地说，她隐隐约约地想知道波莉安娜怎么可能认识她——并且想要她。 ‘你——你做到了？她重复道，试图拉直帽子。

‘Oh, yes; and I’ve been wondering all the way here what you looked like,’ cried the little girl, dancing on her toes, and sweeping the embarrassed Nancy from head to foot, with her eyes. ‘And now I know, and I’m glad you look just like you do look.’
'哦是的; “我一路来就想知道你长什么样子。”小女孩一边叫着，一边用脚趾跳舞，用眼睛从头到脚地扫视着尴尬的南希。 “现在我知道了，我很高兴你看起来就像你本来的样子。”

Nancy was relieved just then to have Timothy come up. Pollyanna’s words had been most confusing.
就在这时，蒂莫西出现了，南希松了口气。波莉安娜的话最令人困惑。

‘This is Timothy. Maybe you have a trunk,’ she stammered.
‘这是蒂莫西。也许你有一个箱子，”她结结巴巴地说。

‘Yes, I have,’ nodded Pollyanna, importantly. ‘I’ve got a brand-new one. The Ladies’ Aid bought it for me—and wasn’t it lovely of them, when they wanted the carpet so? Of course I don’t know how much red carpet a trunk could buy, but it ought to buy some, anyhow—much as half an aisle, don’t you think? I’ve got a little thing here in my bag that Mr. Gray said was a check, and that I must give it to you before I could get my trunk. Mr. Gray is Mrs. Gray’s husband. They’re cousins of Deacon Carr’s wife. I came East with them, and they’re lovely! And—there, here ‘tis,’ she finished, producing the check after much fumbling in the bag she carried.
“是的，我有，”波莉安娜点点头，很重要。 ‘我有一件全新的。女士援助组织为我买了它——她们如此想要地毯，这不是很可爱吗？当然，我不知道一个行李箱能买多少红地毯，但无论如何，它应该买一些——大约半条过道，你不觉得吗？我的包里有一个小东西，格雷先生说是一张支票，我必须把它交给你才能拿到我的行李箱。格雷先生是格雷夫人的丈夫。他们是迪肯·卡尔妻子的表兄弟。我和他们一起来到东部，他们很可爱！然后——就是这里，就是这里，她在随身携带的包里翻来覆去地摸索了一番之后，拿出了支票。

Nancy drew a long breath. Instinctively she felt that some one had to draw one—after that speech. Then she stole a glance at Timothy. Timothy’s eyes were studiously turned away.
南希长长地吸了一口气。她本能地觉得必须有人画一张——在那次演讲之后。然后她偷偷看了蒂莫西一眼。蒂莫西故意把目光移开。

The three were off at last, with Pollyanna’s trunk in behind, and Pollyanna herself snugly ensconced between Nancy and Timothy. During the whole process of getting started, the little girl had kept up an uninterrupted stream of comments and questions, until the somewhat dazed Nancy found herself quite out of breath trying to keep up with her.
三人终于出发了，波莉安娜的行李箱放在后面，波莉安娜本人则舒适地坐在南希和蒂莫西之间。整个开始的过程中，小女孩不断地评论和提问，直到有些茫然的南希发现自己已经气喘吁吁地跟上了她。

‘There! Isn’t this lovely? Is it far? I hope ‘tis—I love to ride,’ sighed Pollyanna, as the wheels began to turn. ‘Of course, if ‘tisn’t far, I sha’n’t mind, though, ‘cause I’ll be glad to get there all the sooner, you know. What a pretty street! I knew ‘twas going to be pretty; father told me—‘
'那里！这不是很可爱吗？远吗？我希望“这——我喜欢骑车”，当车轮开始转动时，波莉安娜叹了口气。 “当然，如果不远，我也不介意，因为我会很高兴能早点到达那里，你知道。”多么漂亮的街道啊！我知道这会很漂亮；父亲告诉我——‘

She stopped with a little choking breath. Nancy, looking at her apprehensively, saw that her small chin was quivering, and that her eyes were full of tears. In a moment, however, she hurried on, with a brave lifting of her head.
她停了下来，呼吸有点窒息。南希担忧地看着她，发现她的小下巴在颤抖，眼睛里充满了泪水。然而，过了一会儿，她勇敢地抬起头，快步走了过去。

‘Father told me all about it. He remembered. And—and I ought to have explained before. Mrs. Gray told me to, at once—about this red gingham dress, you know, and why I’m not in black. She said you’d think ‘twas queer. But there weren’t any black things in the last missionary barrel, only a lady’s velvet basque which Deacon Carr’s wife said wasn’t suitable for me at all; besides, it had white spots—worn, you know—on both elbows, and some other places. Part of the Ladies’ Aid wanted to buy me a black dress and hat, but the other part thought the money ought to go toward the red carpet they’re trying to get—for the church, you know. Mrs. White said maybe it was just as well, anyway, for she didn’t like children in black—that is, I mean, she liked the children, of course, but not the black part.’
‘父亲把这一切都告诉了我。他记得。而且——我之前就应该解释一下。格雷夫人立即告诉我——关于这件红色格子连衣裙，你知道，以及为什么我不穿黑色衣服。她说你会觉得这很奇怪。但最后一个传教士桶里没有任何黑色的东西，只有女士天鹅绒巴斯克，迪肯卡尔的妻子说根本不适合我；此外，它的两个肘部和其他一些地方都有白点——你知道，是磨损的。妇女援助会的一部分人想给我买一件黑裙子和帽子，但另一部分人认为这笔钱应该用在他们想要的红地毯上——为了教堂，你知道。怀特夫人说也许这样也好，无论如何，因为她不喜欢穿黑衣服的孩子——也就是说，我的意思是，她当然喜欢孩子们，但不喜欢黑色的部分。

Pollyanna paused for breath, and Nancy managed to stammer:
波莉安娜停下来喘口气，南希结结巴巴地说：

‘Well, I’m sure it—it’ll be all right.’
“嗯，我确信——一切都会好起来的。”

‘I’m glad you feel that way. I do, too,’ nodded Pollyanna, again with that choking little breath. ‘Of course, ‘twould have been a good deal harder to be glad in black—‘
“我很高兴你有这样的感觉。我也这么认为。”波莉安娜点点头，再次带着令人窒息的呼吸。 “当然，‘穿黑色衣服会更难高兴——’

‘Glad!’ gasped Nancy, surprised into an interruption.
“很高兴！”南希惊讶地被打断，喘着气说道。

‘Yes—that father’s gone to Heaven to be with mother and the rest of us, you know. He said I must be glad. But it’s been pretty hard to—to do it, even in red gingham, because I—I wanted him, so; and I couldn’t help feeling I OUGHT to have him, specially as mother and the rest have God and all the angels, while I didn’t have anybody but the Ladies’ Aid. But now I’m sure it’ll be easier because I’ve got you, Aunt Polly. I’m so glad I’ve got you!’
“是的——你知道，父亲去了天堂与母亲和我们其他人在一起。他说我一定很高兴。但这是相当困难的——做到这一点，即使是红色格子布，因为我——我想要他，所以；我情不自禁地觉得我应该拥有他，特别是因为母亲和其他人拥有上帝和所有天使，而我除了女士援助组织之外没有任何人。但现在我确信事情会更容易，因为我有你，波莉阿姨。我很高兴有你！

Nancy’s aching sympathy for the poor little forlornness beside her turned suddenly into shocked terror.
南希对她身边可怜的小孤儿的痛苦同情突然变成了震惊的恐惧。

‘Oh, but—but you’ve made an awful mistake, d-dear,’ she faltered. ‘I’m only Nancy. I ain’t your Aunt Polly, at all!’
“哦，但是——但是你犯了一个可怕的错误，亲爱的，”她结结巴巴地说。 “我只是南希。我根本不是你的波莉阿姨！”

‘You—you AREN’T? stammered the little girl, in plain dismay.
‘你——你不是吗？小女孩结结巴巴地说，显然是沮丧。

‘No. I’m only Nancy. I never thought of your takin’ me for her. We—we ain’t a bit alike we ain’t, we ain’t!’
'不。我只是南希。我从没想过你会把我当成她。我们——我们一点都不像，我们不是，我们不是！

Timothy chuckled softly; but Nancy was too disturbed to answer the merry flash from his eyes.
蒂莫西轻轻地笑了一声；但南希太不安了，无法回应他眼中闪烁的快乐光芒。

‘But who ARE you?’ questioned Pollyanna. ‘You don’t look a bit like a Ladies’ Aider!’
“但是你是谁？”波莉安娜问道。 “你看起来一点也不像女士助理！”

Timothy laughed outright this time.
蒂莫西这次彻底笑了。

‘I’m Nancy, the hired girl. I do all the work except the washin’ an’ hard ironin’. Mis’ Durgin does that.’
“我是南希，受雇的女孩。除了洗涤和熨烫之外的所有工作都是我做的。米斯的杜金就是这么做的。

‘But there IS an Aunt Polly?’ demanded the child, anxiously.
“但是波莉阿姨有吗？”孩子焦急地问道。

‘You bet your life there is,’ cut in Timothy.
“你打赌你的生命就在那里，”蒂莫西插嘴道。

Pollyanna relaxed visibly.
波莉安娜明显放松下来。

‘Oh, that’s all right, then.’ There was a moment’s silence, then she went on brightly: ‘And do you know? I’m glad, after all, that she didn’t come to meet me; because now I’ve got HER still coming, and I’ve got you besides.’
“哦，那好吧。”沉默了一会儿，然后她愉快地继续说道：“那你知道吗？毕竟，我很高兴她没有来接我。因为现在我还有她，还有你。”

Nancy flushed. Timothy turned to her with a quizzical smile.
南希脸红了。蒂莫西转向她，带着古怪的微笑。

‘I call that a pretty slick compliment,’ he said. ‘Why don’t you thank the little lady?’
“我称这是一个非常巧妙的恭维，”他说。 “你为什么不感谢这位小女士呢？”

‘I—I was thinkin’ about—Miss Polly,’ faltered Nancy.
“我——我在想——波莉小姐，”南希结结巴巴地说。

Pollyanna sighed contentedly.
波莉安娜满意地叹了口气。

‘I was, too. I’m so interested in her. You know she’s all the aunt I’ve got, and I didn’t know I had her for ever so long. Then father told me. He said she lived in a lovely great big house ‘way on top of a hill.’
“我也是。”我对她很感兴趣。你知道她是我所有的阿姨，而我不知道我拥有她这么久。然后父亲告诉我。他说她住在“位于山顶的一栋可爱的大房子里”。

‘She does. You can see it now,’ said Nancy.
“她确实这么做了。”你现在就可以看到了，”南希说。

It’s that big white one with the green blinds, ‘way ahead.’
就是那个带有绿色百叶窗的白色大窗户，“遥遥领先”。

‘Oh, how pretty!—and what a lot of trees and grass all around it! I never saw such a lot of green grass, seems so, all at once. Is my Aunt Polly rich, Nancy?’
“哦，多漂亮啊！——周围有很多树和草！”我从来没有见过这么多的绿草，似乎一下子就绿了。南希，我的波莉阿姨很有钱吗？

‘Yes, Miss.’
'是的，女士。'

‘I’m so glad. It must be perfectly lovely to have lots of money. I never knew any one that did have, only the Whites—they’re some rich. They have carpets in every room and ice-cream Sundays. Does Aunt Polly have ice-cream Sundays?’
'我很高兴。拥有很多钱一定是一件非常美好的事情。我从来不认识任何人，只有白人——他们有些富有。他们每个房间都铺有地毯，周日还提供冰淇淋。波莉阿姨周日有冰淇淋吗？

Nancy shook her head. Her lips twitched. She threw a merry look into Timothy’s eyes.
南希摇摇头。她的嘴唇抽动着。她向蒂莫西的眼睛投去愉快的目光。

‘No, Miss. Your aunt don’t like ice-cream, I guess; leastways I never saw it on her table.’
“不，小姐。我猜你的阿姨不喜欢冰淇淋；但我知道。”至少我从来没有在她的桌子上看到过它。

Pollyanna’s face fell.
波莉安娜的脸沉了下来。

‘Oh, doesn’t she? I’m so sorry! I don’t see how she can help liking ice-cream. But—anyhow, I can be kinder glad about that, ‘cause the ice-cream you don’t eat can’t make your stomach ache like Mrs. White’s did—that is, I ate hers, you know, lots of it. Maybe Aunt Polly has got the carpets, though.’
哦，不是吗？我很抱歉！我不明白她怎么会不喜欢冰淇淋。但是——无论如何，我对此感到更高兴，因为你不吃的冰淇淋不会像怀特夫人那样让你胃痛——也就是说，我吃了她的，你知道，很多。不过，也许波莉阿姨已经拿到了地毯。”

‘Yes, she’s got the carpets.’
“是的，她有地毯。”

‘In every room?’
“每个房间都有吗？”

‘Well, in almost every room,’ answered Nancy, frowning suddenly at the thought of that bare little attic room where there was no carpet.
“嗯，几乎每个房间都有。”南希回答道，想到那间没有地毯的空荡荡的小阁楼房间，她突然皱起了眉头。

‘Oh, I’m so glad,’ exulted Pollyanna. ‘I love carpets. We didn’t have any, only two little rugs that came in a missionary barrel, and one of those had ink spots on it. Mrs. White had pictures, too, perfectly beautiful ones of roses and little girls kneeling and a kitty and some lambs and a lion—not together, you know—the lambs and the lion. Oh, of course the Bible says they will sometime, but they haven’t yet—that is, I mean Mrs. White’s haven’t. Don’t you just love pictures?’
“哦，我太高兴了，”波莉安娜兴奋地说。 “我喜欢地毯。我们没有，只有两张装在传教士桶里的小地毯，其中一张上面有墨迹。怀特夫人也有一些照片，非常美丽的照片，上面有玫瑰、跪着的小女孩、一只小猫、几只羔羊和一只狮子——你知道，不是在一起的——羔羊和狮子。哦，当然，圣经说他们有一天会的，但他们还没有——也就是说，我的意思是怀特夫人还没有。你不就是喜欢照片吗？

‘I—I don’t know,’ answered Nancy in a half-stifled voice.
“我——我不知道，”南希用半窒息的声音回答。

‘I do. We didn’t have any pictures. They don’t come in the barrels much, you know. There did two come once, though. But one was so good father sold it to get money to buy me some shoes with; and the other was so bad it fell to pieces just as soon as we hung it up. Glass—it broke, you know. And I cried. But I’m glad now we didn’t have any of those nice things, ‘cause I shall like Aunt Polly’s all the better—not being used to ‘em, you see. Just as it is when the PRETTY hair-ribbons come in the barrels after a lot of faded-out brown ones. My! but isn’t this a perfectly beautiful house?’ she broke off fervently, as they turned into the wide driveway.
'我愿意。我们没有任何照片。你知道，它们不太会装在桶里。不过，确实有两个人来过一次。但那双太好了，父亲把它卖了，换钱给我买双鞋；另一个太糟糕了，我们刚把它挂起来就碎了。玻璃——它碎了，你知道。我哭了。但我很高兴现在我们没有任何这些好东西，因为我会更喜欢波莉阿姨的——而不是习惯它们，你看。就像当漂亮的发带在许多褪色的棕色发带进入桶中时一样。我的！但这不是一座非常漂亮的房子吗？”当他们拐进宽阔的车道时，她热切地打断了。

It was when Timothy was unloading the trunk that Nancy found an opportunity to mutter low in his ear:
就在蒂莫西卸下行李箱的时候，南希找了个机会在他耳边低声嘀咕道：

‘Don’t you never say nothin’ ter me again about leavin’, Timothy Durgin. You couldn’t HIRE me ter leave!’
“你别再对我说要离开了”，蒂莫西·德金。你不能雇用我离开！

‘Leave! I should say not,’ grinned the youth.
'离开！我应该说不是，”年轻人笑着说。

You couldn’t drag me away. It’ll be more fun here now, with that kid ‘round, than movin’-picture shows, every day!’
你不能把我拖走。现在这里会更有趣，每天和那个孩子一起“比电影放映更有趣！”

‘Fun!—fun!’ repeated Nancy, indignantly, ‘I guess it’ll be somethin’ more than fun for that blessed child—when them two tries ter live tergether; and I guess she’ll be a-needin’ some rock ter fly to for refuge. Well, I’m a-goin’ ter be that rock, Timothy; I am, I am!’ she vowed, as she turned and led Pollyanna up the broad steps.
“有趣！——有趣！”南希愤怒地重复道，“我想对于那个有福的孩子来说，这将不仅仅是有趣——当他们两个尝试在一起生活时；我猜她需要一些摇滚乐才能飞去避难。好吧，我要成为那块岩石，蒂莫西；我是，我是！”她一边发誓，一边转身带着波莉安娜走上宽阔的台阶。

CHAPTER IV. THE LITTLE ATTIC ROOM
第四章。小阁楼房间

Miss Polly Harrington did not rise to meet her niece. She looked up from her book, it is true, as Nancy and the little girl appeared in the sitting-room doorway, and she held out a hand with ‘duty’ written large on every coldly extended finger.
波莉·哈林顿小姐没有起身去迎接她的侄女。确实，当南希和小女孩出现在客厅门口时，她从书本上抬起头来，她伸出一只手，每根冰冷伸出的手指上都写着“职责”。

‘How do you do, Pollyanna? I—‘ She had no chance to say more. Pollyanna, had fairly flown across the room and flung herself into her aunt’s scandalized, unyielding lap.
‘你好吗，波莉安娜？我——”她没有机会再说更多。乐观的她飞快地穿过房间，扑到她姨妈那令人震惊、不屈不挠的腿上。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly, Aunt Polly, I don’t know how to be glad enough that you let me come to live with you,’ she was sobbing. ‘You don’t know how perfectly lovely it is to have you and Nancy and all this after you’ve had just the Ladies’ Aid!’
“噢，波莉阿姨，波莉阿姨，你让我来和你住在一起，我不知道该怎样高兴才好，”她抽泣着。 “在获得了女士们的援助之后，你不知道拥有你和南希以及这一切是多么美好！”

‘Very likely—though I’ve not had the pleasure of the Ladies’ Aid’s acquaintance,’ rejoined Miss Polly, stiffly, trying to unclasp the small, clinging fingers, and turning frowning eyes on Nancy in the doorway. ‘Nancy, that will do. You may go. Pollyanna, be good enough, please, to stand erect in a proper manner. I don’t know yet what you look like.’
“很有可能——虽然我没有很高兴认识女士们援助组织，”波莉小姐僵硬地回答道，试图松开紧握的小手指，皱着眉头看着门口的南希。 ‘南希，这样就可以了。你可以走了。波莉安娜，请表现得足够好，以适当的方式站直。我还不知道你长什么样。

Pollyanna drew back at once, laughing a little hysterically.
波莉安娜立刻退了一步，笑得有点歇斯底里。

‘No, I suppose you don’t; but you see I’m not very much to took at, anyway, on account of the freckles. Oh, and I ought to explain about the red gingham and the black velvet basque with white spots on the elbows. I told Nancy how father said—‘
“不，我想你不知道；”但你看，无论如何，因为我有雀斑，我并不是很值得人注意。哦，我应该解释一下红色格子布和肘部有白点的黑色天鹅绒巴斯克布。我告诉南希父亲是怎么说的——”

‘Yes; well, never mind now what your father said,’ interrupted Miss Polly, crisply. ‘You had a trunk, I presume?’
'是的;好吧，现在别管你父亲说什么了，”波莉小姐干脆地打断道。 “我猜你有一个箱子吧？”

‘Oh, yes, indeed, Aunt Polly. I’ve got a beautiful trunk that the Ladies’ Aid gave me. I haven’t got so very much in it—of my own, I mean. The barrels haven’t had many clothes for little girls in them lately; but there were all father’s books, and Mrs. White said she thought I ought to have those. You see, father—‘
“哦，是的，确实如此，波莉阿姨。我有一个女士援助组织送给我的漂亮箱子。我并没有太多投入——我是说，我自己的。最近桶里没有多少给小女孩穿的衣服了；但里面都是父亲的书，怀特夫人说她认为我应该拥有那些。你看，父亲——”

‘Pollyanna,’ interrupted her aunt again, sharply, ‘there is one thing that might just as well be understood right away at once; and that is, I do not care to have you keep talking of your father to me.’
“盲目乐观，”她姨妈再次尖锐地打断道，“有一件事最好立刻就明白了；也就是说，我不想让你一直跟我谈论你的父亲。

The little girl drew in her breath tremulously.
小女孩颤抖着吸了一口气。

‘Why, Aunt Polly, you—you mean—‘ She hesitated, and her aunt filled the pause.
“为什么，波莉姨妈，你——你的意思是——”她犹豫了一下，她的姨妈填补了这个停顿。

‘We will go up-stairs to your room. Your trunk is already there, I presume. I told Timothy to take it up—if you had one. You may follow me, Pollyanna.’
“我们上楼去你的房间。”我想你的行李箱已经在那里了。我告诉蒂莫西，如果你有的话，就拿起它吧。你可以跟我来，波莉安娜。

Without speaking, Pollyanna turned and followed her aunt from the room. Her eyes were brimming with tears, but her chin was bravely high.
波莉安娜没有说话，转身跟着她的姨妈出了房间。她的眼里充满了泪水，但下巴却勇敢地高高扬起。

‘After all, I—I reckon I’m glad she doesn’t want me to talk about father,’ Pollyanna was thinking. ‘It’ll be easier, maybe—if I don’t talk about him. Probably, anyhow, that is why she told me not to talk about him.’ And Pollyanna, convinced anew of her aunt’s ‘kindness,’ blinked off the tears and looked eagerly about her.
“毕竟，我——我想我很高兴她不想让我谈论父亲，”波莉安娜心想。 “如果我不谈论他的话，也许事情会更容易一些。”无论如何，也许这就是她告诉我不要谈论他的原因。”波莉安娜重新相信了姨妈的“善良”，她眨了眨眼睛，热切地看着她。

She was on the stairway now. just ahead, her aunt’s black silk skirt rustled luxuriously. Behind her an open door allowed a glimpse of soft-tinted rugs and satin-covered chairs. Beneath her feet a marvellous carpet was like green moss to the tread. On every side the gilt of picture frames or the glint of sunlight through the filmy mesh of lace curtains flashed in her eyes.
她现在在楼梯上。前方，姨妈的黑丝裙子华丽地沙沙作响。她身后一扇开着的门，可以看到柔和的色彩地毯和缎面椅子。她脚下铺着一层奇妙的地毯，踩上去就像绿色的苔藓。四周都是镀金的相框，或是透过蕾丝窗帘的薄网的阳光在她的眼睛里闪烁。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly, Aunt Polly,’ breathed the little girl, rapturously; ‘what a perfectly lovely, lovely house! How awfully glad you must be you’re so rich!’
“哦，波莉阿姨，波莉阿姨，”小女孩欣喜若狂地喘息着。 ‘多么完美可爱的房子啊！你一定很高兴你这么富有！

‘PollyANNA!’ ejaculated her aunt, turning sharply about as she reached the head of the stairs. ‘I’m surprised at you—making a speech like that to me!’
“波莉安娜！”姨妈走到楼梯口时猛地转过身，喊道。 “我很惊讶你竟然对我发表这样的演讲！”

‘Why, Aunt Polly, AREN’T you?’ queried Pollyanna, in frank wonder.
“为什么，波莉姨妈，你不是吗？”波莉安娜问道，坦率地感到惊讶。

‘Certainly not, Pollyanna. I hope I could not so far forget myself as to be sinfully proud of any gift the Lord has seen fit to bestow upon me,’ declared the lady; ‘certainly not, of RICHES!’
“当然不是，波莉安娜。我希望我不会忘记自己，为上帝认为适合赐给我的任何礼物而感到罪恶的骄傲，”这位女士宣称； “当然不是，财富！”

Miss Polly turned and walked down the hall toward the attic stairway door. She was glad, now, that she had put the child in the attic room. Her idea at first had been to get her niece as far away as possible from herself, and at the same time place her where her childish heedlessness would not destroy valuable furnishings. Now—with this evident strain of vanity showing thus early—it was all the more fortunate that the room planned for her was plain and sensible, thought Miss Polly.
波莉小姐转身沿着走廊朝阁楼楼梯门走去。现在她很高兴把孩子放在阁楼房间里。她一开始的想法是让侄女离自己尽可能远，同时把她安置在不会因她幼稚的粗心而损坏贵重家具的地方。现在——这种明显的虚荣心这么早就表现出来了——更幸运的是，为她设计的房间既简单又合理，波莉小姐想。

Eagerly Pollyanna’s small feet pattered behind her aunt. Still more eagerly her big blue eyes tried to look in all directions at once, that no thing of beauty or interest in this wonderful house might be passed unseen. Most eagerly of all her mind turned to the wondrously exciting problem about to be solved: behind which of all these fascinating doors was waiting now her room—the dear, beautiful room full of curtains, rugs, and pictures, that was to be her very own? Then, abruptly, her aunt opened a door and ascended another stairway.
波莉安娜热切地用她的小脚在姨妈身后拍打着。更急切的是，她那双蓝色的大眼睛试图同时观察各个方向，以免这座奇妙的房子里的任何美丽或有趣的东西都被忽视。她最热切的思绪转向了即将解决的令人兴奋的问题：在所有这些迷人的门后面，现在正在等待着她的房间——那个充满窗帘、地毯和图画的亲爱的、美丽的房间，那将是她的房间。自己的？然后，突然，她的姨妈打开了一扇门，登上了另一个楼梯。

There was little to be seen here. A bare wall rose on either side. At the top of the stairs, wide reaches of shadowy space led to far corners where the roof came almost down to the floor, and where were stacked innumerable trunks and boxes. It was hot and stifling, too. Unconsciously Pollyanna lifted her head higher—it seemed so hard to breathe. Then she saw that her aunt had thrown open a door at the right.
这里没什么可看的。两边都是光秃秃的墙。在楼梯的顶部，宽阔的阴暗空间通向远处的角落，那里的屋顶几乎垂到地板上，那里堆放着无数的箱子和盒子。天气又热又闷。波莉安娜不自觉地把头抬得更高——呼吸似乎很困难。然后她看到姨妈打开了右边的一扇门。

‘There, Pollyanna, here is your room, and your trunk is here, I see. Have you your key?’
“那儿，波莉安娜，这是你的房间，我明白了，你的行李箱也在这儿。”你有钥匙吗？

Pollyanna nodded dumbly. Her eyes were a little wide and frightened.
波莉安娜呆呆地点点头。她的眼睛睁得有点大，充满了恐惧。

Her aunt frowned.
她姨妈皱起了眉头。

‘When I ask a question, Pollyanna, I prefer that you should answer aloud not merely with your head.’
“当我问问题时，波莉安娜，我更喜欢你大声回答，而不仅仅是用头脑。”

‘Yes, Aunt Polly.’
“是的，波莉阿姨。”

‘Thank you; that is better. I believe you have everything that you need here,’ she added, glancing at the well-filled towel rack and water pitcher. ‘I will send Nancy up to help you unpack. Supper is at six o’clock,’ she finished, as she left the room and swept down-stairs.
'谢谢;那更好。我相信这里有你需要的一切，”她补充道，同时看了一眼装满的毛巾架和水罐。 “我会派南希来帮你打开行李。晚餐时间是六点。”她说完，就离开了房间，快步下楼了。

For a moment after she had gone Pollyanna stood quite still, looking after her. Then she turned her wide eyes to the bare wall, the bare floor, the bare windows. She turned them last to the little trunk that had stood not so long before in her own little room in the far-away Western home. The next moment she stumbled blindly toward it and fell on her knees at its side, covering her face with her hands.
她走后有一会儿，波莉安娜一动不动地站着，看着她。然后她睁大眼睛看着光秃秃的墙壁、光秃秃的地板、光秃秃的窗户。她最后把它们转向了不久前还放在遥远的西方家里她自己的小房间里的小箱子。下一刻，她盲目地跌跌撞撞地走向它，跪在它旁边，用手捂住脸。

Nancy found her there when she came up a few minutes later.
几分钟后，南希过来时发现了她。

‘There, there, you poor lamb,’ she crooned, dropping to the floor and drawing the little girl into her arms. ‘I was just a-fearin! I’d find you like this, like this.’
“好了，好了，你这可怜的羔羊，”她低声说道，倒在地上，把小女孩拉进怀里。 “我只是——害怕！我会发现你像这样，像这样。

Pollyanna shook her head.
波莉安娜摇摇头。

‘But I’m bad and wicked, Nancy—awful wicked,’ she sobbed. ‘I just can’t make myself understand that God and the angels needed my father more than I did.’
“但我又坏又邪恶，南希——非常邪恶，”她抽泣着。 “我就是无法让自己明白上帝和天使比我更需要我的父亲。”

‘No more they did, neither,’ declared Nancy, stoutly.
“他们不再这样做了，也没有，”南希坚决地宣称。

‘Oh-h!—NANCY!’ The burning horror in Pollyanna’s eyes dried the tears.
“哦——哈！——南希！”波莉安娜眼中燃烧着的恐惧让泪水流干了。

Nancy gave a shamefaced smile and rubbed her own eyes vigorously.
南希羞愧地笑了笑，用力揉了揉眼睛。

‘There, there, child, I didn’t mean it, of course,’ she cried briskly. ‘Come, let’s have your key and we’ll get inside this trunk and take our your dresses in no time, no time.’
“好了，好了，孩子，我当然不是故意的，”她轻快地喊道。 “来吧，让我们拿到你的钥匙，我们很快就会进入这个行李箱并拿走你的衣服。”

Somewhat tearfully Pollyanna produced the key.
波莉安娜有些含泪地拿出了钥匙。

‘There aren’t very many there, anyway,’ she faltered.
“无论如何，那里的人并不多，”她结结巴巴地说。

‘Then they’re all the sooner unpacked,’ declared Nancy.
“这样他们就可以更快地打开行李了，”南希宣称。

Pollyanna gave a sudden radiant smile.
波莉安娜突然露出灿烂的笑容。

‘That’s so! I can be glad of that, can’t I?’ she cried.
‘原来如此！我会为此感到高兴，不是吗？”她哭道。

Nancy stared.
南希凝视着。

‘Why, of—course,’ she answered a little uncertainly.
“为什么，当然，”她有点不确定地回答。

Nancy’s capable hands made short work of unpacking the books, the patched undergarments, and the few pitifully unattractive dresses. Pollyanna, smiling bravely now, flew about, hanging the dresses in the closet, stacking the books on the table, and putting away the undergarments in the bureau drawers.
南希灵巧的双手很快就打开了书本、打补丁的内衣和几件可怜的毫无吸引力的衣服。波莉安娜现在勇敢地微笑着，飞来飞去，把衣服挂在衣柜里，把书堆在桌子上，把内衣收进衣柜抽屉里。

‘I’m sure it—it’s going to be a very nice room. Don’t you think so?’ she stammered, after a while.
“我确信——这将是一个非常漂亮的房间。你不这么认为吗？”过了一会儿，她结结巴巴地说。

There was no answer. Nancy was very busy, apparently, with her head in the trunk. Pollyanna, standing at the bureau, gazed a little wistfully at the bare wall above.
没有人回答。南希显然很忙，她把头埋在行李箱里。波莉安娜站在写字台前，有些若有所思地凝视着上面光秃秃的墙壁。

‘And I can be glad there isn’t any looking-glass here, too, ‘cause where there ISN’T any glass I can’t see my freckles.’
“我很高兴这里也没有镜子，因为没有镜子的地方我就看不到我的雀斑。”

Nancy made a sudden queer little sound with her mouth—but when Pollyanna turned, her head was in the trunk again. At one of the windows, a few minutes later, Pollyanna gave a glad cry and clapped her hands joyously.
南希突然用嘴发出奇怪的小声音——但当波莉安娜转过身时，她的头又伸进了箱子里。几分钟后，波莉安娜在其中一扇窗户前高兴地叫了一声，高兴地拍着手。

‘Oh, Nancy, I hadn’t seen this before,’ she breathed. ‘Look—‘way off there, with those trees and the houses and that lovely church spire, and the river shining just like silver. Why, Nancy, there doesn’t anybody need any pictures with that to look at. Oh, I’m so glad now she let me have this room!’
“哦，南希，我以前从没见过这个，”她喘息道。 “看——”远处，有那些树木、房屋和那座可爱的教堂尖顶，还有银光闪闪的河流。为什么，南希，没有人需要任何照片来观看。哦，我很高兴现在她让我拥有这个房间！

To Pollyanna’s surprise and dismay, Nancy burst into tears. Pollyanna hurriedly crossed to her side.
令波莉安娜惊讶和沮丧的是，南希突然哭了起来。波莉安娜赶紧走到她身边。

‘Why, Nancy, Nancy—what is it?’ she cried; then, fearfully: ‘This wasn’t—YOUR room, was it?’
“为什么，南希，南希——这是什么？”她喊道。然后，恐惧地问道：“这不是——你的房间，是吗？”

‘My room!’ stormed Nancy, hotly, choking back the tears. ‘If you ain’t a little angel straight from Heaven, and if some folks don’t eat dirt before—Oh, land! there’s her bell!’ After which amazing speech, Nancy sprang to her feet, dashed out of the room, and went clattering down the stairs.
“我的房间！”南希强忍着泪水，激烈地咆哮道。 “如果你不是来自天堂的小天使，如果有些人以前不吃泥土——哦，土地！铃响了！”听完这番令人惊叹的演讲后，南希跳了起来，冲出房间，啪嗒啪嗒地下了楼梯。

Left alone, Pollyanna went back to her ‘picture,’ as she mentally designated the beautiful view from the window. After a time she touched the sash tentatively. It seemed as if no longer could she endure the stifling heat. To her joy the sash moved under her fingers. The next moment the window was wide open, and Pollyanna was leaning far out, drinking in the fresh, sweet air.
波莉安娜独自一人，回到了她的“照片”，她在心​​里指定了窗外美丽的景色。过了一会儿，她试探性地触碰了腰带。她似乎再也无法忍受这令人窒息的炎热了。让她高兴的是，腰带在她的手指下动了。下一刻，窗户大开，波莉安娜远远地探出身子，呼吸着新鲜、甜美的空气。

She ran then to the other window. That, too, soon flew up under her eager hands. A big fly swept past her nose, and buzzed noisily about the room. Then another came, and another; but Pollyanna paid no heed. Pollyanna had made a wonderful discovery—against this window a huge tree flung great branches. To Pollyanna they looked like arms outstretched, inviting her. Suddenly she laughed aloud.
然后她跑到另一扇窗户。那东西也很快在她热切的双手下飞了起来。一只大苍蝇飞过她的鼻子，在房间里嗡嗡地响。然后又来了一个，又一个；但波莉安娜没有理睬。波莉安娜有了一个奇妙的发现——一棵大树靠着这扇窗户，投下巨大的树枝。对波莉安娜来说，它们就像伸出双臂，邀请她。突然，她放声大笑。

‘I believe I can do it,’ she chuckled. The next moment she had climbed nimbly to the window ledge. From there it was an easy matter to step to the nearest tree-branch. Then, clinging like a monkey, she swung herself from limb to limb until the lowest branch was reached. The drop to the ground was—even for Pollyanna, who was used to climbing trees—a little fearsome. She took it, however, with bated breath, swinging from her strong little arms, and landing on all fours in the soft grass. Then she picked herself up and looked eagerly about her.
她笑着说：“我相信我能做到。”下一刻，她已经敏捷地爬到了窗台上。从那里很容易走到最近的树枝。然后，她像猴子一样紧紧抓住，从一根树枝摇到另一根树枝，直到到达最低的树枝。即使对于习惯爬树的波莉安娜来说，掉到地上也有点可怕。然而，她屏住呼吸接住了它，用她强壮的小手臂摆动着，四肢着地落在柔软的草地上。然后她站了起来，热切地环顾四周。

She was at the back of the house. Before her lay a garden in which a bent old man was working. Beyond the garden a little path through an open field led up a steep hill, at the top of which a lone pine tree stood on guard beside the huge rock. To Pollyanna, at the moment, there seemed to be just one place in the world worth being in—the top of that big rock.
她在房子的后面。她面前是一座花园，一位弯腰驼背的老人正在花园里干活。花园外面有一条小路，穿过一片空旷的田野，通向一座陡峭的小山，山顶上一棵孤独的松树矗立在巨大的岩石旁边。对于波莉安娜来说，此时此刻，世界上似乎只有一个地方值得一去——那块大岩石的顶部。

With a run and a skilful turn, Pollyanna skipped by the bent old man, threaded her way between the orderly rows of green growing things, and—a little out of breath—reached the path that ran through the open field. Then, determinedly, she began to climb. Already, however, she was thinking what a long, long way off that rock must be, when back at the window it had looked so near!
波莉安娜奔跑着，巧妙地转身，跳过了弯腰的老人，穿过一排排整齐的绿色植物，然后——有点上气不接下气——到达了穿过空地的小路。然后，她毅然决然地开始攀登。然而，她已经在想，那块岩石离她有多远，有多远，当她回到窗前时，它看起来是如此的近！

Fifteen minutes later the great clock in the hallway of the Harrington homestead struck six. At precisely the last stroke Nancy sounded the bell for supper.
十五分钟后，哈灵顿庄园走廊上的大钟敲响了六点。就在最后一声敲响时，南希敲响了晚饭的钟声。

One, two, three minutes passed. Miss Polly frowned and tapped the floor with her slipper. A little jerkily she rose to her feet, went into the hall, and looked up-stairs, plainly impatient. For a minute she listened intently; then she turned and swept into the dining room.
一、二、三分钟过去了。波莉小姐皱起眉头，用拖鞋敲击地板。她有点颤抖地站起来，走进大厅，向上看去，显然不耐烦。她聚精会神地听了一会儿。然后她转身走进餐厅。

‘Nancy,’ she said with decision, as soon as the little serving-maid appeared; ‘my niece is late. No, you need not call her,’ she added severely, as Nancy made a move toward the hall door. ‘I told her what time supper was, and now she will have to suffer the consequences. She may as well begin at once to learn to be punctual. When she comes down she may have bread and milk in the kitchen.’
“南希，”小女仆一出现，她就果断地说。 ‘我的侄女迟到了。不，你不需要打电话给她。”当南希朝大厅门口走去时，她严厉地补充道。 “我告诉她晚饭时间了，现在她必须承担后果。”她不妨立即开始学习守时。当她下来时，厨房里可能会有面包和牛奶。

‘Yes, ma’am.’ It was well, perhaps, that Miss Polly did not happen to be looking at Nancy’s face just then.
“是的，女士。”波莉小姐此时没有碰巧看到南希的脸，也许还好。

At the earliest possible moment after supper, Nancy crept up the back stairs and thence to the attic room.
晚饭后，南希尽早爬上后楼梯，来到阁楼房间。

‘Bread and milk, indeed!—and when the poor lamb hain’t only just cried herself to sleep,’ she was muttering fiercely, as she softly pushed open the door. The next moment she gave a frightened cry. ‘Where are you? Where’ve you gone? Where HAVE you gone?’ she panted, looking in the closet, under the bed, and even in the trunk and down the water pitcher. Then she flew down-stairs and out to Old Tom in the garden.
“确实是面包和牛奶！——可怜的小羊羔不仅哭着睡着了，”她一边轻轻地推开门，一边激烈地嘟哝着。下一刻，她惊恐地大叫起来。 '你在哪里？你去哪儿了？你去哪儿了？”她气喘吁吁地看着衣柜、床底下、甚至行李箱和水罐。然后她飞下楼，来到花园里的老汤姆身边。

‘Mr. Tom, Mr. Tom, that blessed child’s gone,’ she wailed. ‘She’s vanished right up into Heaven where she come from, poor lamb—and me told ter give her bread and milk in the kitchen—her what’s eatin’ angel food this minute, I’ll warrant, I’ll warrant!’
'先生。汤姆，汤姆先生，那个幸福的孩子不见了，”她哭着说。 “她已经消失在她来自的天堂里了，可怜的羔羊——我告诉你在厨房里给她面包和牛奶——她此刻正在吃天使食物，我保证，我保证！”

The old man straightened up.
老人直起身子。

‘Gone? Heaven?’ he repeated stupidly, unconsciously sweeping the brilliant sunset sky with his gaze. He stopped, stared a moment intently, then turned with a slow grin. ‘Well, Nancy, it do look like as if she’d tried ter get as nigh Heaven as she could, and that’s a fact,’ he agreed, pointing with a crooked finger to where, sharply outlined against the reddening sky, a slender, wind-blown figure was poised on top of a huge rock.
‘走了？天堂？”他傻乎乎地重复着，目光不自觉地扫过绚丽的夕阳天空。他停了下来，专注地凝视了一会儿，然后慢慢地笑着转过身来。 “嗯，南希，看起来她确实试图尽可能接近天堂，这是事实，”他同意道，用一根弯曲的手指指着在泛红的天空映衬下清晰轮廓的一个细长的地方。被风吹动的身影，稳稳地立在一块巨石之上。

‘Well, she ain’t goin’ ter Heaven that way ter-night—not if I has my say,’ declared Nancy, doggedly. ‘If the mistress asks, tell her I ain’t furgettin’ the dishes, but I gone on a stroll,’ she flung back over her shoulder, as she sped toward the path that led through the open field.
“好吧，今晚她不会那样去天堂——如果我有意见的话，”南希固执地宣称。 “如果女主人问起来，就告诉她我并没有乱吃碗碟，而是去散步了，”她向后一仰，飞快地朝穿过空地的小路走去。

CHAPTER V. THE GAME
第五章 游戏

‘For the land’s sake, Miss Pollyanna, what a scare you did give me,’ panted Nancy, hurrying up to the big rock, down which Pollyanna had just regretfully slid.
“看在这片土地的份上，波莉安娜小姐，你真把我吓坏了。”南希气喘吁吁地跑到那块大石头前，波莉安娜刚刚遗憾地从那块石头上滑了下来。

‘Scare? Oh, I’m so sorry; but you mustn’t, really, ever get scared about me, Nancy. Father and the Ladies’ Aid used to do it, too, till they found I always came back all right.’
'吓？哦，我很抱歉；但你真的永远不要害怕我，南希。父亲和妇女援助会也曾经这样做过，直到他们发现我总是没事地回来。

‘But I didn’t even know you’d went,’ cried Nancy, tucking the little girl’s hand under her arm and hurrying her down the hill. ‘I didn’t see you go, and nobody didn’t. I guess you flew right up through the roof; I do, I do.’
“但我什至不知道你去了，”南希喊道，把小女孩的手夹在腋下，催促她下山。 “我没有看到你走，也没有人看到你走。我猜你是从屋顶飞上来的；我做我做。'

Pollyanna skipped gleefully.
波莉安娜高兴地跳了起来。

‘I did, ‘most—only I flew down instead of up. I came down the tree.’
“我做到了，‘大多数——只是我飞下来而不是上升。我从树上下来了。

Nancy stopped short.
南希突然停了下来。

‘You did—what?’
'你做了什么？'

‘Came down the tree, outside my window.’
“从我窗外的树上下来。”

‘My stars and stockings!’ gasped Nancy, hurrying on again. ‘I’d like ter know what yer aunt would say ter that!’
“我的星星和袜子！”南希喘着气说道，又继续赶路。 “我想知道你姨妈会怎么说！”

‘Would you? Well, I’ll tell her, then, so you can find out,’ promised the little girl, cheerfully.
'你会？好吧，那我就告诉她，这样你就可以知道了。”小女孩高兴地答应道。

‘Mercy!’ gasped Nancy. ‘No—no!’
“怜悯！”南希喘着气说。 '不，不！'

‘Why, you don’t mean she’d CARE!’ cried Pollyanna, plainly disturbed.
“哎呀，你的意思不是说她会关心！”波莉安娜喊道，显然很不安。

‘No—er—yes—well, never mind. I—I ain’t so very particular about knowin’ what she’d say, truly,’ stammered Nancy, determined to keep one scolding from Pollyanna, if nothing more. ‘But, say, we better hurry. I’ve got ter get them dishes done, ye know.’
“不——呃——是的——好吧，没关系。 “我——我并不是那么特别想知道她会说什么，真的，”南希结结巴巴地说，她决心不让波莉安娜责骂，如果没有更多的话。 “但是，我们最好快点。”你知道，我得把他们的碗洗好。

‘I’ll help,’ promised Pollyanna, promptly.
“我会帮忙的，”波莉安娜立即答应道。

‘Oh, Miss Pollyanna!’ demurred Nancy.
“哦，波莉安娜小姐！”南希反驳道。

For a moment there was silence. The sky was darkening fast. Pollyanna took a firmer hold of her friend’s arm.
一时间寂静无声。天色很快就暗下来了。波莉安娜更紧地握住她朋友的手臂。

‘I reckon I’m glad, after all, that you DID get scared—a little, ‘cause then you came after me,’ she shivered.
“我想我很高兴，毕竟，你确实感到害怕了——有一点，因为然后你就追上了我，”她颤抖着。

‘Poor little lamb! And you must be hungry, too. I—I’m afraid you’ll have ter have bread and milk in the kitchen with me. Yer aunt didn’t like it—because you didn’t come down ter supper, ye know.’
‘可怜的小羊羔！而且你一定也饿了。我——恐怕你会和我一起在厨房里吃面包和牛奶。你姑妈不喜欢这样——因为你没有下来吃晚饭，你知道。

‘But I couldn’t. I was up here.’
'但我不能。我在上面。

‘Yes; but—she didn’t know that, you see!’ observed Nancy, dryly, stifling a chuckle. ‘I’m sorry about the bread and milk; I am, I am.’
'是的;但是——她不知道这一点，你瞧！”南希强忍着笑声，干巴巴地说。 “我对面包和牛奶感到抱歉；我是，我是。

‘Oh, I’m not. I’m glad.’
哦，我不是。我很高兴。'

‘Glad! Why?’
'高兴的！为什么？'

‘Why, I like bread and milk, and I’d like to eat with you. I don’t see any trouble about being glad about that.’
‘为什么，我喜欢面包和牛奶，我想和你一起吃。我认为对此感到高兴并没有什么麻烦。

‘You don’t seem ter see any trouble bein’ glad about everythin’,’ retorted Nancy, choking a little over her remembrance of Pollyanna’s brave attempts to like the bare little attic room.
“你似乎没有看到任何对一切感到高兴的麻烦”，南希反驳道，她想起波莉安娜勇敢地尝试喜欢这个空荡荡的小阁楼房间，有点哽咽。

Pollyanna laughed softly.
波莉安娜轻声笑道。

‘Well, that’s the game, you know, anyway.’
“好吧，这就是游戏，你知道，无论如何。”

‘The—GAME?’
'游戏？'

‘Yes; the ‘just being glad’ game.’
'是的; ‘只是高兴’的游戏。”

‘Whatever in the world are you talkin’ about?’
“你到底在说什么？”

‘Why, it’s a game. Father told it to me, and it’s lovely,’ rejoined Pollyanna. ‘We’ve played it always, ever since I was a little, little girl. I told the Ladies’ Aid, and they played it—some of them.’
‘为什么，这是一场游戏。父亲告诉我的，这很可爱，”波莉安娜回答道。 “从我还是个小女孩的时候起，我们就一直玩这个游戏。我告诉了妇女援助会，他们就演奏了——其中一些。

‘What is it? I ain’t much on games, though.’
'它是什么？不过，我不太热衷于游戏。

Pollyanna laughed again, but she sighed, too; and in the gathering twilight her face looked thin and wistful.
波莉安娜又笑了，但她也叹了口气。在渐浓的暮色中，她的脸显得消瘦而渴望。

‘Why, we began it on some crutches that came in a missionary barrel.’
“为什么，我们是靠装在传教士桶里的拐杖开始的。”

‘CRUTCHES!’
“拐杖！”

‘Yes. You see I’d wanted a doll, and father had written them so; but when the barrel came the lady wrote that there hadn’t any dolls come in, but the little crutches had. So she sent ‘em along as they might come in handy for some child, sometime. And that’s when we began it.’
'是的。你看，我想要一个洋娃娃，而父亲是这么写的；但当桶来的时候，那位女士写道，没有洋娃娃进来，但小拐杖进来了。所以她把它们寄了出来，因为它们有时可能会对某个孩子派上用场。那就是我们开始的时候。

‘Well, I must say I can’t see any game about that, about that,’ declared Nancy, almost irritably.
“好吧，我必须说我看不到任何关于这个的游戏，关于那个，”南希几乎有些恼怒地说。

‘Oh, yes; the game was to just find something about everything to be glad about—no matter what ‘twas,’ rejoined Pollyanna, earnestly. ‘And we began right then—on the crutches.’
'哦是的;游戏就是在一切事情中找到一些值得高兴的事情——无论“是什么”，波莉安娜认真地回答道。 “我们从那时起就开始了——拄着拐杖。”

‘Well, goodness me! I can’t see anythin’ ter be glad about—gettin’ a pair of crutches when you wanted a doll!’
‘好吧，天哪！我看不出有什么值得高兴的——当你想要一个洋娃娃时却得到一双拐杖！

Pollyanna clapped her hands.
波莉安娜拍了拍手。

‘There is—there is,’ she crowed. ‘But I couldn’t see it, either, Nancy, at first,’ she added, with quick honesty. ‘Father had to tell it to me.’
“有——有，”她高声说道。 “但一开始我也看不到，南希，”她很快诚实地补充道。 “父亲必须告诉我。”

‘Well, then, suppose YOU tell ME,’ almost snapped Nancy.
“好吧，那么，假设你告诉我，”南希几乎厉声说道。

‘Goosey! Why, just be glad because you don’t—NEED—‘EM!’ exulted Pollyanna, triumphantly. ‘You see it’s just as easy—when you know how!’
'鹅！哎呀，高兴就好，因为你不需要——需要——“他们！”波莉安娜得意洋洋地欢呼雀跃。 “你会发现这同样简单——只要你知道如何做！”

‘Well, of all the queer doin’s!’ breathed Nancy, regarding Pollyanna with almost fearful eyes.
“好吧，所有奇怪的事情都是如此！”南希喘息着，用几乎恐惧的眼神看着波莉安娜。

‘Oh, but it isn’t queer—it’s lovely,’ maintained Pollyanna enthusiastically. ‘And we’ve played it ever since. And the harder ‘tis, the more fun ‘tis to get ‘em out; only—only sometimes it’s almost too hard—like when your father goes to Heaven, and there isn’t anybody but a Ladies’ Aid left.’
“哦，但这并不奇怪——它很可爱，”波莉安娜热情地说道。 ‘从那以后我们就一直玩这个游戏。越难，把它们救出来就越有趣；只是——只是有时候这太难了——就像当你的父亲去了天堂时，除了“女士援助组织”之外什么人都没有了。

‘Yes, or when you’re put in a snippy little room ‘way at the top of the house with nothin’ in it,’ growled Nancy.
“是的，或者当你被关在‘位于房子顶部的一间破旧的小房间里，里面什么也没有’时，”南希咆哮道。

Pollyanna sighed.
波莉安娜叹了口气。

‘That was a hard one, at first,’ she admitted, ‘specially when I was so kind of lonesome. I just didn’t feel like playing the game, anyway, and I HAD been wanting pretty things, so! Then I happened to think how I hated to see my freckles in the looking-glass, and I saw that lovely picture out the window, too; so then I knew I’d found the things to be glad about. You see, when you’re hunting for the glad things, you sort of forget the other kind—like the doll you wanted, you know.’
“一开始，这很困难，”她承认，“尤其是当我感到如此孤独时。”无论如何，我只是不想玩这个游戏，而且我一直想要漂亮的东西，所以！然后我碰巧想到我多么讨厌在镜子里看到自己的雀斑，我也看到了窗外那张可爱的图画；所以我知道我找到了值得高兴的事情。你看，当你在寻找快乐的东西时，你会忘记另一种东西——比如你想要的洋娃娃，你知道。

‘Humph!’ choked Nancy, trying to swallow the lump in her throat.
“哼！”南希哽咽着，试图把喉咙里的哽咽咽下去。

‘Most generally it doesn’t take so long,’ sighed Pollyanna; ‘and lots of times now I just think of them WITHOUT thinking, you know. I’ve got so used to playing it. It’s a lovely game. F-father and I used to like it so much,’ she faltered. ‘I suppose, though, it—it’ll be a little harder now, as long as I haven’t anybody to play it with. Maybe Aunt Polly will play it, though,’ she added, as an after-thought.
“一般情况下，不需要这么长时间，”波莉安娜叹了口气。 “现在很多时候我只是想他们而没有思考，你知道。我已经玩习惯了。这是一个可爱的游戏。我和我爸爸曾经非常喜欢它。”她结结巴巴地说。 “不过我想，现在会有点困难，因为没有人可以和我一起玩。”不过，也许波莉姨妈会玩这个，”她事后补充道。

‘My stars and stockings!—HER!’ breathed Nancy, behind her teeth. Then, aloud, she said doggedly: ‘See here, Miss Pollyanna, I ain’t sayin’ that I’ll play it very well, and I ain’t sayin’ that I know how, anyway; but I’ll play it with ye, after a fashion—I just will, I will!’
“我的星星和长袜！——她！”南希咬牙切齿地说。然后，她顽强地大声说道：“听着，波莉安娜小姐，我并不是说我会弹得很好，我也不是说我知道怎么弹；无论如何，我不会说我会弹得很好。”但我会和你们一起玩，以某种方式——我会的，我会的！

‘Oh, Nancy!’ exulted Pollyanna, giving her a rapturous hug. ‘That’ll be splendid! Won’t we have fun?’
“哦，南希！”波莉安娜欣喜若狂，给了她一个欣喜若狂的拥抱。 ‘那就太好了！我们会玩得很开心吗？

‘Er—maybe,’ conceded Nancy, in open doubt. ‘But you mustn’t count too much on me, ye know. I never was no case fur games. but I’m a-goin’ ter make a most awful old try on this one. You’re goin’ ter have some one ter play it with, anyhow,’ she finished, as they entered the kitchen together.
“呃——也许吧，”南希承认道，带着公开的怀疑。 “但是你不能太依赖我，你知道的。我从来都不是无缘无故的皮毛游戏。但我要对这个做一次最糟糕的老尝试。不管怎样，你总得有人陪你玩吧，”她说完，他们一起走进了厨房。

Pollyanna ate her bread and milk with good appetite; then, at Nancy’s suggestion, she went into the sitting room, where her aunt sat reading. Miss Polly looked up coldly.
波莉安娜胃口很好地吃着面包和牛奶。然后，在南希的建议下，她走进客厅，姨妈正坐在那儿看书。波莉小姐冷冷地抬起头来。

‘Have you had your supper, Pollyanna?’
“波莉安娜，你吃晚饭了吗？”

‘Yes, Aunt Polly.’
“是的，波莉阿姨。”

‘I’m very sorry, Pollyanna, to have been obliged so soon to send you into the kitchen to eat bread and milk.’
“我很抱歉，波莉安娜，这么快就不得不送你到厨房去吃面包和牛奶。”

‘But I was real glad you did it, Aunt Polly. I like bread and milk, and Nancy, too. You mustn’t feel bad about that one bit.’
“但我真的很高兴你这么做了，波莉阿姨。我喜欢面包和牛奶，南希也喜欢。你一定不要因为这一点而感到难过。

Aunt Polly sat suddenly a little more erect in her chair.
波莉姨妈突然在椅子上坐得更直了一些。

‘Pollyanna, it’s quite time you were in bed. You have had a hard day, and to-morrow we must plan your hours and go over your clothing to see what it is necessary to get for you. Nancy will give you a candle. Be careful how you handle it. Breakfast will be at half-past seven. See that you are down to that. Good-night.’
‘波丽安娜，你该上床睡觉了。您度过了辛苦的一天，明天我们必须计划您的时间并检查您的衣服，看看需要为您准备什么。南希会给你一支蜡烛。小心你的处理方式。早餐时间是七点半。看看你是否做到了这一点。晚安。'

Quite as a matter of course, Pollyanna came straight to her aunt’s side and gave her an affectionate hug.
波莉安娜理所当然地走到姑妈身边，深情地拥抱了她。

‘I’ve had such a beautiful time, so far,’ she sighed happily. I know I’m going to just love living with you but then, I knew I should before I came. Good-night,’ she called cheerfully, as she ran from the room.
“到目前为止，我度过了一段美好的时光，”她高兴地叹了口气。我知道我会喜欢和你住在一起，但在我来之前我就知道我应该这么做。晚安，”她一边跑出房间，一边高兴地喊道。

‘Well, upon my soul!’ ejaculated Miss Polly, half aloud. ‘What a most extraordinary child!’ Then she frowned. ‘She’s ‘glad’ I punished her, and I ‘mustn’t feel bad one bit,’ and she’s going to ‘love to live’ with me! Well, upon my soul!’ ejaculated Miss Polly again, as she took up her book.
“好吧，我的灵魂！”波莉小姐半大声地喊道。 “真是个非凡的孩子！”然后她皱起了眉头。 “她‘很高兴’我惩罚了她，我‘一定不能感到难过’，她会‘喜欢和我一起生活’！”好吧，我的灵魂！”波莉小姐拿起书，再次说道。

Fifteen minutes later, in the attic room, a lonely little girl sobbed into the tightly-clutched sheet:
十五分钟后，阁楼上，一个孤独的小女孩捂着床单抽泣着：

‘I know, father-among-the-angels, I’m not playing the game one bit now—not one bit; but I don’t believe even you could find anything to be glad about sleeping all alone ‘way off up here in the dark—like this. If only I was near Nancy or Aunt Polly, or even a Ladies’ Aider, it would be easier!’
“我知道，天使中的父亲，我现在一点也不玩这个游戏了——一点也不；我不想玩这个游戏。”但我不相信，即使是你，也不会觉得在这么远的地方，在黑暗中独自睡觉有什么值得高兴的。如果我在南希或波莉阿姨，甚至是一名女士助手附近，那就容易多了！

Down-stairs in the kitchen, Nancy, hurrying with her belated work, jabbed her dish-mop into the milk pitcher, and muttered Jerkily:
楼下的厨房里，南希正忙着她迟来的工作，她把抹布戳进牛奶壶里，嘟囔着杰基利：

‘If playin’ a silly-fool game—about bein’ glad you’ve got crutches when you want dolls—is got ter be—my way—o’ bein’ that rock o’ refuge—why, I’m a-goin’ ter play it—I am, I am!’
“如果玩‘傻瓜游戏’——当你想要洋娃娃时，庆幸你有拐杖——就必须是——我的方式——成为那块避难所——为什么，我要走了“那就玩吧——我是，我是！”

CHAPTER VI. A QUESTION OF DUTY
第六章。责任问题

It was nearly seven o’clock when Pollyanna awoke that first day after her arrival. Her windows faced the south and the west, so she could not see the sun yet; but she could see the hazy blue of the morning sky, and she knew that the day promised to be a fair one.
抵达后的第一天，波莉安娜醒来时已经快七点了。她的窗户朝南和朝西，所以她还看不到太阳。但她可以看到早晨天空的朦胧蓝色，她知道这一天注定是美好的一天。

The little room was cooler now, and the air blew in fresh and sweet. Outside, the birds were twittering joyously, and Pollyanna flew to the window to talk to them. She saw then that down in the garden her aunt was already out among the rosebushes. With rapid fingers, therefore, she made herself ready to join her.
小房间里现在凉爽多了，空气清新而甜美。外面，鸟儿在欢快地叽叽喳喳，波莉安娜飞到窗前和它们说话。这时她看到花园里的姨妈已经在玫瑰丛中了。因此，她的手指飞快地做好了加入她的准备。

Down the attic stairs sped Pollyanna, leaving both doors wide open. Through the hall, down the next flight, then bang through the front screened-door and around to the garden, she ran.
波莉安娜迅速走下阁楼楼梯，两扇门都敞开着。她跑过大厅，跑下下一楼，然后撞开前面的纱门，绕到花园。

Aunt Polly, with the bent old man, was leaning over a rose-bush when Pollyanna, gurgling with delight, flung herself upon her.
波莉姨妈和弯腰的老人正靠在玫瑰丛上，这时波莉安娜高兴地咯咯笑，扑到了她身上。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly, Aunt Polly, I reckon I am glad this morning just to be alive!’
“哦，波莉阿姨，波莉阿姨，我想今天早上我很高兴还活着！”

‘PollyANNA!’ remonstrated the lady, sternly, pulling herself as erect as she could with a dragging weight of ninety pounds hanging about her neck. ‘Is this the usual way you say good morning?’
“波莉安娜！”那位女士严厉地抗议道，同时脖子上挂着九十磅的重物，尽可能地挺直身体。 “这是你通常说早安的方式吗？”

The little girl dropped to her toes, and danced lightly up and down.
小女孩踮起脚尖，轻轻地上下跳舞。

‘No, only when I love folks so I just can’t help it! I saw you from my window, Aunt Polly, and I got to thinking how you WEREN’T a Ladies’ Aider, and you were my really truly aunt; and you looked so good I just had to come down and hug you!’
“不，只有当我爱别人的时候我才会情不自禁！”我从窗户看到你，波莉阿姨，我开始思考你怎么不是一名女士助理，而你是我真正的阿姨；你看起来太棒了，我不得不下来拥抱你！”

The bent old man turned his back suddenly. Miss Polly attempted a frown—with not her usual success.
弯腰老者突然转过身去。波莉小姐皱起眉头，但没有像往常那样成功。

‘Pollyanna, you—I Thomas, that will do for this morning. I think you understand—about those rose-bushes,’ she said stiffly. Then she turned and walked rapidly away.
‘乐观主义者，你——我是托马斯，今天早上就这样了。我想你明白——关于那些玫瑰丛的事，”她生硬地说。然后她转身快步走开。

‘Do you always work in the garden, Mr.—Man?’ asked Pollyanna, interestedly.
“曼先生，你总是在花园里干活吗？”波莉安娜感兴趣地问道。

The man turned. His lips were twitching, but his eyes looked blurred as if with tears.
男人转身。他的嘴唇在抽搐，但他的眼睛却显得模糊，像是含着泪水。

‘Yes, Miss. I’m Old Tom, the gardener,’ he answered. Timidly, but as if impelled by an irresistible force, he reached out a shaking hand and let it rest for a moment on her bright hair. ‘You are so like your mother. little Miss! I used ter know her when she was even littler than you be. You see, I used ter work in the garden—then.’
“是的，小姐。我是园丁老汤姆。”他回答道。他胆怯地，但仿佛受到一股不可抗拒的力量的推动，伸出颤抖的手，在她明亮的头发上停留了一会儿。 ‘你真像你的母亲。小小姐！当她比你还小的时候我就认识她了。你看，我过去常常在花园里干活——那时。

Pollyanna caught her breath audibly.
波莉安娜屏住了呼吸。

‘You did? And you knew my mother, really—when she was just a little earth angel, and not a Heaven one? Oh, please tell me about her!’ And down plumped Pollyanna in the middle of the dirt path by the old man’s side.
‘你做到了？你真的认识我的母亲吗——当时她还只是一个人间小天使，而不是天堂天使？哦，请告诉我关于她的事！”然后，胖乎乎的波莉安娜倒在了老人身边的土路中间。

A bell sounded from the house. The next moment Nancy was seen flying out the back door.
屋里响起了铃声。下一刻，就看到南希从后门飞了出去。

‘Miss Pollyanna, that bell means breakfast—mornin’s,’ she panted, pulling the little girl to her feet and hurrying her back to the house; ‘and other times it means other meals. But it always means that you’re ter run like time when ye hear it, no matter where ye be. If ye don’t—well, it’ll take somethin’ smarter’n we be ter find ANYTHIN’ ter be glad about in that!’ she finished, shooing Pollyanna into the house as she would shoo an unruly chicken into a coop.
“波莉安娜小姐，那个铃声意味着早餐——早上，”她气喘吁吁地拉着小女孩站起来，催促她回到屋里。 '有时这意味着其他饭菜。但这总是意味着，无论你身在何处，当你听到它时，你都会像时间一样奔跑。如果你不这样做——好吧，我们需要一些更聪明的办法，我们才能在其中找到任何值得高兴的东西！”她说完，把波莉安娜赶进了房子，就像她把一只不守规矩的鸡赶进了鸡舍一样。

Breakfast, for the first five minutes, was a silent meal; then Miss Polly, her disapproving eyes following the airy wings of two flies darting here and there over the table, said sternly:
早餐的前五分钟是一顿安静的饭菜；接下来的五分钟里，早餐是一顿安静的饭菜。然后，波莉小姐用不以为然的目光追随着两只苍蝇的翅膀，在桌子上飞来飞去，严厉地说：

‘Nancy, where did those flies come from?’
“南希，那些苍蝇是从哪里来的？”

‘I don’t know, ma’am. There wasn’t one in the kitchen.’ Nancy had been too excited to notice Pollyanna’s up-flung windows the afternoon before.
“我不知道，女士。厨房里没有人。”前一天下午，南希太兴奋了，没有注意到波莉安娜打开的窗户。

‘I reckon maybe they’re my flies, Aunt Polly,’ observed Pollyanna, amiably. ‘There were lots of them this morning having a beautiful time upstairs.’
“我想它们可能是我的苍蝇，波莉阿姨，”波莉安娜和蔼地说道。 “今天早上有很多人在楼上度过了愉快的时光。”

Nancy left the room precipitately, though to do so she had to carry out the hot muffins she had just brought in.
南希匆匆离开了房间，不过为此她必须搬出刚刚带来的热松饼。

‘Yours!’ gasped Miss Polly. ‘What do you mean? Where did they come from?’
“你的！”波莉小姐气喘吁吁地说。 '你是什么意思？哪儿来的呢？'

‘Why, Aunt Polly, they came from out of doors of course, through the windows. I SAW some of them come in.’
“哎呀，波莉阿姨，他们当然是从外面、从窗户进来的。我看到他们中的一些人进来了。

‘You saw them! You mean you raised those windows without any screens?’
‘你看到他们了！你的意思是你在没有任何纱窗的情况下升起了那些窗户？

‘Why, yes. There weren’t any screens there, Aunt Polly.’
'为什么是。那里没有任何屏风，波莉阿姨。”

Nancy, at this moment, came in again with the muffins. Her face was grave, but very red.
这时，南希拿着松饼又进来了。她的脸色严肃，但很红。

‘Nancy,’ directed her mistress, sharply, ‘you may set the muffins down and go at once to Miss Pollyanna’s room and shut the windows. Shut the doors, also. Later, when your morning work is done, go through every room with the spatter. See that you make a thorough search.’
“南希，”她的女主人严厉地吩咐道，“你可以把松饼放下，立即去波莉安娜小姐的房间，关上窗户。也把门关上。稍后，当你早上的工作完成后，检查每个有飞溅物的房间。确保你进行彻底的搜索。

To her niece she said:
她对侄女说：

‘Pollyanna, I have ordered screens for those windows. I knew, of course, that it was my duty to do that. But it seems to me that you have quite forgotten YOUR duty.’
“乐观，我已经为那些窗户订购了纱窗。我当然知道这是我的责任。但在我看来，你已经完全忘记了你的职责。”

‘My—duty?’ Pollyanna’s eyes were wide with wonder.
“我的——职责？”波莉安娜惊讶地睁大了眼睛。

‘Certainly. I know it is warm, but I consider it your duty to keep your windows closed till those screens come. Flies, Pollyanna, are not only unclean and annoying, but very dangerous to health. After breakfast I will give you a little pamphlet on this matter to read.’
'当然。我知道天气很热，但我认为你有责任关上窗户，直到那些纱窗出现。苍蝇，盲目乐观，不仅不干净、烦人，而且对健康非常危险。早餐后，我会给你一本关于此事的小册子供你阅读。

‘To read? Oh, thank you, Aunt Polly. I love to read!’
'读书？噢，谢谢你，波莉阿姨。我喜欢看书！'

Miss Polly drew in her breath audibly, then she shut her lips together hard. Pollyanna, seeing her stern face, frowned a little thoughtfully.
波莉小姐深深地吸了一口气，然后用力闭上了嘴唇。波莉安娜看到她严肃的脸，若有所思地皱起了眉头。

‘Of course I’m sorry about the duty I forgot, Aunt Polly,’ she apologized timidly. ‘I won’t raise the windows again.’
“当然，我对我忘记的职责感到抱歉，波莉阿姨，”她胆怯地道歉。 “我不会再打开窗户了。”

Her aunt made no reply. She did not speak, indeed, until the meal was over. Then she rose, went to the bookcase in the sitting room, took out a small paper booklet, and crossed the room to her niece’s side.
她的姨妈没有回答。事实上，直到用餐结束，她都没有说话。然后她起身，走到客厅的书柜前，拿出一本纸质小册子，穿过房间来到侄女身边。

‘This is the article I spoke of, Pollyanna. I desire you to go to your room at once and read it. I will be up in half an hour to look over your things.’
“这就是我所说的文章，波莉安娜。我希望你立即去你的房间阅读它。半小时后我会起来查看你的东西。

Pollyanna, her eyes on the illustration of a fly’s head, many times magnified, cried joyously:
波莉安娜的眼睛盯着放大了很多倍的苍蝇头部插图，高兴地喊道：

‘Oh, thank you, Aunt Polly!’ The next moment she skipped merrily from the room, banging the door behind her.
“哦，谢谢你，波莉阿姨！” 下一刻，她高兴地跳出了房间，砰地关上了身后的门。

Miss Polly frowned, hesitated, then crossed the room majestically and opened the door; but Pollyanna was already out of sight, clattering up the attic stairs.
波莉小姐皱起眉头，犹豫了一下，然后威风凛凛地穿过房间，打开了门。但波莉安娜已经从我们的视线中消失了，她正在爬上阁楼的楼梯。

Half an hour later when Miss Polly, her face expressing stern duty in every line, climbed those stairs and entered Pollyanna’s room, she was greeted with a burst of eager enthusiasm.
半小时后，当波莉小姐爬上楼梯，走进波莉安娜的房间时，脸上的每句话都流露出严肃的责任感，迎接她的是一阵热切的热情。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly, I never saw anything so perfectly lovely and interesting in my life. I’m so glad you gave me that book to read! Why, I didn’t suppose flies could carry such a lot of things on their feet, and—‘
“哦，波莉阿姨，我一生中从未见过如此完美可爱和有趣的东西。我很高兴你给我那本书来读！哎呀，我没想到苍蝇的脚上能驮这么多东西，而且——”

‘That will do,’ observed Aunt Polly, with dignity. ‘Pollyanna, you may bring out your clothes now, and I will look them over. What are not suitable for you I shall give to the Sullivans, of course.’
“这样就可以了，”波莉姨妈郑重地说道。 “波丽安娜，你现在可以把你的衣服拿出来，我来检查一下。当然，不适合你的东西我会送给苏利文一家。

With visible reluctance Pollyanna laid down the pamphlet and turned toward the closet.
波莉安娜显然很不情愿地放下小册子，转向衣柜。

‘I’m afraid you’ll think they’re worse than the Ladies’ Aid did—and THEY said they were shameful,’ she sighed. ‘But there were mostly things for boys and older folks in the last two or three barrels; and—did you ever have a missionary barrel, Aunt Polly?’
“我担心你会认为他们比妇女援助组织更糟糕——他们说他们是可耻的，”她叹了口气。 “但最后两三个桶里的东西大多是给男孩和老年人的；还有——波莉阿姨，你有过传教士桶吗？

At her aunt’s look of shocked anger, Pollyanna corrected herself at once.
波莉安娜看到姨妈震惊而愤怒的表情，立刻纠正了自己的观点。

‘Why, no, of course you didn’t, Aunt Polly!’ she hurried on, with a hot blush. ‘I forgot; rich folks never have to have them. But you see sometimes I kind of forget that you are rich—up here in this room, you know.’
“哦，不，你当然没有，波莉姨妈！”她急忙继续说，脸涨得通红。 '我忘了;有钱人永远不需要拥有它们。但你看，有时我有点忘记你很富有——在这个房间里，你知道。”

Miss Polly’s lips parted indignantly, but no words came. Pollyanna, plainly unaware that she had said anything in the least unpleasant, was hurrying on.
波莉小姐愤怒地张开双唇，但什么也没说。波莉安娜显然没有意识到自己说了任何不愉快的话，只是匆匆忙忙地走着。

‘Well, as I was going to say, you can’t tell a thing about missionary barrels—except that you won’t find in ‘em what you think you’re going to—even when you think you won’t. It was the barrels every time, too, that were hardest to play the game on, for father and—‘
“好吧，正如我要说的，关于传教士桶，你一无所知——除非你在其中找不到你认为你会找到的东西——即使你认为你不会。每次都是木桶最难玩，对父亲来说，而且——”

Just in time Pollyanna remembered that she was not to talk of her father to her aunt. She dived into her closet then, hurriedly, and brought out all the poor little dresses in both her arms.
波莉安娜及时想起她不可以和姨妈谈论她的父亲。然后她赶紧钻进衣柜，把怀里所有可怜的小裙子都拿出来。

‘They aren’t nice, at all,’ she choked, ‘and they’d been black if it hadn’t been for the red carpet for the church; but they’re all I’ve got.’
“它们一点也不友善，”她哽咽着，“如果不是教堂的红地毯，它们就是黑色的；但它们就是我所拥有的一切。

With the tips of her fingers Miss Polly turned over the conglomerate garments, so obviously made for anybody but Pollyanna. Next she bestowed frowning attention on the patched undergarments in the bureau drawers.
波莉小姐用指尖翻动那些混杂的衣服，显然是为除了波莉安娜之外的任何人做的。接下来，她皱着眉头注意着衣柜抽屉里那些打过补丁的内衣。

‘I’ve got the best ones on,’ confessed Pollyanna, anxiously. ‘The Ladies’ Aid bought me one set straight through all whole. Mrs. Jones—she’s the president—told ‘em I should have that if they had to clatter down bare aisles themselves the rest of their days. But they won’t. Mr. White doesn’t like the noise. He’s got nerves, his wife says; but he’s got money, too, and they expect he’ll give a lot toward the carpet—on account of the nerves, you know. I should think he’d be glad that if he did have the nerves he’d got money, too; shouldn’t you?’
“我已经穿上了最好的衣服，”波莉安娜焦急地承认。 “女士们的援助”给我买了一套完整的。琼斯夫人——她是总统——告诉他们，如果他们在余下的日子里只能自己在光秃秃的过道上嘎嘎作响，我就应该这么做。但他们不会。怀特先生不喜欢噪音。他的妻子说，他很紧张。但他也有钱，他们希望他会为地毯付出很多——因为紧张，你知道。我想他会很高兴，如果他有勇气的话，他也能得到钱。你不应该吗？

Miss Polly did not seem to hear. Her scrutiny of the undergarments finished, she turned to Pollyanna somewhat abruptly.
波莉小姐似乎没有听见。她检查完内衣后，有些突然地转向波莉安娜。

‘You have been to school, of course, Pollyanna?’
“你当然上过学吗，波莉安娜？”

‘Oh, yes, Aunt Polly. Besides, fath—I mean, I was taught at home some, too.’
“哦，是的，波莉阿姨。此外，父亲——我的意思是，我在家里也受过一些教育。

Miss Polly frowned.
波莉小姐皱起了眉头。

‘Very good. In the fall you will enter school here, of course. Mr. Hall, the principal, will doubtless settle in which grade you belong. Meanwhile, I suppose I ought to hear you read aloud half an hour each day.’
'非常好。当然，秋天你将在这里入学。校长霍尔先生无疑会确定你属于哪个年级。与此同时，我想我应该每天听你朗读半小时。

‘I love to read; but if you don’t want to hear me I’d be just glad to read to myself—truly, Aunt Polly. And I wouldn’t have to half try to be glad, either, for I like best to read to myself—on account of the big words, you know.’
'我喜欢看书;但如果你不想听我说话，我很乐意读给自己听——说真的，波莉阿姨。我也不必半点高兴，因为我最喜欢自己读书——因为大词，你知道。

‘I don’t doubt it,’ rejoined Miss Polly, grimly. Have you studied music?’
“我毫不怀疑，”波莉小姐冷酷地回答道。你学过音乐吗？

‘Not much. I don’t like my music—I like other people’s, though. I learned to play on the piano a little. Miss Gray—she plays for church—she taught me. But I’d just as soon let that go as not, Aunt Polly. I’d rather, truly.’
'不多。我不喜欢我的音乐——但我喜欢别人的音乐。我学了一点钢琴。格雷小姐——她为教堂演奏——她教了我。但波莉阿姨，我宁愿放弃这件事。我宁愿，真的。

‘Very likely,’ observed Aunt Polly, with slightly uplifted eyebrows. ‘Nevertheless I think it is my duty to see that you are properly instructed in at least the rudiments of music. You sew, of course.’
“很有可能，”波莉姨妈说道，眉毛微微扬起。 “尽管如此，我认为我有责任确保你至少在音乐的基础知识方面得到适当的指导。当然，你会缝纫。

‘Yes, ma’am.’ Pollyanna sighed. The Ladies’ Aid taught me that. But I had an awful time. Mrs. Jones didn’t believe in holding your needle like the rest of ‘em did on buttonholing, and Mrs. White thought backstitching ought to be taught you before hemming (or else the other way), and Mrs. Harriman didn’t believe in putting you on patchwork ever, at all.’
“是的，女士。”波莉安娜叹了口气。妇女援助组织教会了我这一点。但我过得很糟糕。琼斯夫人不相信像其他人扣扣眼时那样握住针，怀特夫人认为应该在卷边之前教您倒缝（或者其他方式），而哈里曼夫人不相信让你永远拼凑起来。

‘Well, there will be no difficulty of that kind any longer, Pollyanna. I shall teach you sewing myself, of course. You do not know how to cook, I presume.’
“好吧，再也不会有那种困难了，波莉安娜。当然，我会亲自教你缝纫。我猜你不会做饭。

Pollyanna laughed suddenly.
波莉安娜突然笑了起来。

‘They were just beginning to teach me that this summer, but I hadn’t got far. They were more divided up on that than they were on the sewing. They were GOING to begin on bread; but there wasn’t two of ‘em that made it alike, so after arguing it all one sewing-meeting, they decided to take turns at me one forenoon a week—in their own kitchens, you know. I’d only learned chocolate fudge and fig cake, though, when—when I had to stop.’ Her voice broke.
“今年夏天他们才开始教我这一点，但我并没有走得太远。他们在这方面的分歧比在缝纫方面的分歧更大。他们要开始吃面包；但他们中没有两个人的做法是一样的，所以在一次缝纫会议上争论完之后，他们决定每周一个上午轮流来找我——在他们自己的厨房里，你知道。不过，我只学会了巧克力软糖和无花果蛋糕，当——当我不得不停下来的时候。”她的声音沙哑了。

‘Chocolate fudge and fig cake, indeed!’ scorned Miss Polly. ‘I think we can remedy that very soon. ‘She paused in thought for a minute, then went on slowly: ‘At nine o’clock every morning you will read aloud one half-hour to me. Before that you will use the time to put this room in order. Wednesday and Saturday forenoons, after half-past nine, you will spend with Nancy in the kitchen, learning to cook. Other mornings you will sew with me. That will leave the afternoons for your music. I shall, of course, procure a teacher at once for you,’ she finished decisively, as she arose from her chair.
“确实是巧克力软糖和无花果蛋糕！”波莉小姐轻蔑地说。 “我认为我们很快就能解决这个问题。 “她停顿了一下，然后慢慢地继续说道：‘每天早上九点，你要给我朗读一个半小时。在此之前，您将利用时间整理这个房间。周三和周六上午九点半后，您将和南希一起在厨房里学习做饭。其他早上你会和我一起缝纫。这样下午的时间就可以用来听音乐了。当然，我会立即为你找一位老师。”她从椅子上站起来，果断地说。

Pollyanna cried out in dismay.
波莉安娜沮丧地喊道。

‘Oh, but Aunt Polly, Aunt Polly, you haven’t left me any time at all just to—to live.’
“哦，但是波莉阿姨，波莉阿姨，你根本没有留给我任何时间来——活下去。”

‘To live, child! What do you mean? As if you weren’t living all the time!’
“为了活下去，孩子！你是什​​么意思？就好像你一直都没有活着一样！

‘Oh, of course I’d be BREATHING all the time I was doing those things, Aunt Polly, but I wouldn’t be living. You breathe all the time you’re asleep, but you aren’t living. I mean living—doing the things you want to do: playing outdoors, reading (to myself, of course), climbing hills, talking to Mr. Tom in the garden, and Nancy, and finding out all about the houses and the people and everything everywhere all through the perfectly lovely streets I came through yesterday. That’s what I call living, Aunt Polly. Just breathing isn’t living!’
“噢，波莉阿姨，我做那些事情的时候当然会一直在呼吸，但我不会活着。你在睡觉的时候一直在呼吸，但你并不是在活着。我的意思是生活——做你想做的事情：在户外玩耍、读书（当然是给我自己看）、爬山、在花园里与汤姆先生和南希交谈、了解所有关于房子、人和人的事情。我昨天走过的那条非常可爱的街道上到处都是一切。这就是我所说的生活，波莉阿姨。仅仅呼吸并不是生命！

Miss Polly lifted her head irritably.
波莉小姐烦躁地抬起头。

‘Pollyanna, you ARE the most extraordinary child! You will be allowed a proper amount of playtime, of course. But, surely, it seems to me if I am willing to do my duty in seeing that you have proper care and instruction, YOU ought to be willing to do yours by seeing that that care and instruction are not ungratefully wasted.’
‘波莉安娜，你是最非凡的孩子！当然，您将获得适当的游戏时间。但是，当然，在我看来，如果我愿意尽我的职责，让你得到适当的照顾和指导，你也应该愿意做你的责任，确保这种照顾和指导不会被无情地浪费。

Pollyanna looked shocked.
波莉安娜看上去很震惊。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly, as if I ever could be ungrateful—to YOU! Why, I LOVE YOU—and you aren’t even a Ladies’ Aider; you’re an aunt!’
“哦，波莉阿姨，好像我对你忘恩负义一样！为什么，我爱你——而你甚至不是一名女士助理；你是一位阿姨！

‘Very well; then see that you don’t act ungrateful,’ vouchsafed Miss Polly, as she turned toward the door.
'很好;然后你要注意不要表现得忘恩负义，”波莉小姐转身向门口保证道。

She had gone halfway down the stairs when a small, unsteady voice called after her:
她刚下了楼梯一半，身后就传来一个微弱而颤抖的声音：

‘Please, Aunt Polly, you didn’t tell me which of my things you wanted to—to give away.’
“拜托，波莉阿姨，你没有告诉我你想把我的哪些东西——送给别人。”

Aunt Polly emitted a tired sigh—a sigh that ascended straight to Pollyanna’s ears.
波莉姨妈发出一声疲倦的叹息——这叹息直传到波莉安娜的耳朵里。

‘Oh, I forgot to tell you, Pollyanna. Timothy will drive us into town at half-past one this afternoon. Not one of your garments is fit for my niece to wear. Certainly I should be very far from doing my duty by you if I should let you appear out in any one of them.’
“哦，我忘了告诉你，波莉安娜。蒂莫西今天下午一点半会开车送我们进城。你的衣服没有一件适合我侄女穿。当然，如果我让你出现在其中任何一部中，我就远远没有尽到我对你的责任。

Pollyanna sighed now—she believed she was going to hate that word—duty.
波莉安娜现在叹了口气——她相信她会讨厌这个词——责任。

‘Aunt Polly, please,’ she called wistfully, ‘isn’t there ANY way you can be glad about all that—duty business?’
“波莉阿姨，拜托，”她若有所思地喊道，“有没有什么办法能让你对这一切——值勤事务感到高兴？”

‘What?’ Miss Polly looked up in dazed surprise; then, suddenly, with very red cheeks, she turned and swept angrily down the stairs. ‘Don’t be impertinent, Pollyanna!’
“什么？”波莉小姐惊讶地抬起头来。然后，突然，她脸颊通红，转身愤怒地冲下楼梯。 “别无礼，波丽安娜！”

In the hot little attic room Pollyanna dropped herself on to one of the straight-backed chairs. To her, existence loomed ahead one endless round of duty.
在炎热的小阁楼房间里，波莉安娜跌坐在一张直背椅上。对她来说，生存就意味着一轮无尽的责任。

‘I don’t see, really, what there was impertinent about that,’ she sighed. ‘I was only asking her if she couldn’t tell me something to be glad about in all that duty business.’
“我真的不明白这有什么不恰当的，”她叹了口气。 “我只是问她能否告诉我一些在值班事务中值得高兴的事情。”

For several minutes Pollyanna sat in silence, her rueful eyes fixed on the forlorn heap of garments on the bed. Then, slowly, she rose and began to put away the dresses.
波莉安娜沉默地坐了几分钟，她悲伤的眼睛盯着床上那堆废弃的衣服。然后，她慢慢地站起来，开始收起衣服。

‘There just isn’t anything to be glad about, that I can see,’ she said aloud; ‘unless—it’s to be glad when the duty’s done!’ Whereupon she laughed suddenly.
“我看不出有什么值得高兴的，”她大声说道。 “除非——这是为完成任务而感到高兴！”于是她突然笑了起来。

CHAPTER VII. POLLYANNA AND PUNISHMENTS
第七章。盲目乐观和惩罚

At half-past one o’clock Timothy drove Miss Polly and her niece to the four or five principal dry goods stores, which were about half a mile from the homestead.
一点半钟，蒂莫西开车送波莉小姐和她的侄女去了四五家主要的干货店，距离宅基地大约有半英里。

Fitting Pollyanna with a new wardrobe proved to be more or less of an exciting experience for all concerned. Miss Polly came out of it with the feeling of limp relaxation that one might have at finding oneself at last on solid earth after a perilous walk across the very thin crust of a volcano. The various clerks who had waited upon the pair came out of it with very red faces, and enough amusing stories of Pollyanna to keep their friends in gales of laughter the rest of the week. Pollyanna herself came out of it with radiant smiles and a heart content; for, as she expressed it to one of the clerks: ‘When you haven’t had anybody but missionary barrels and Ladies’ Aiders to dress you, it IS perfectly lovely to just walk right in and buy clothes that are brand-new, and that don’t have to be tucked up or let down because they don’t fit!’
事实证明，为波莉安娜穿上新衣柜对所有相关人员来说或多或少都是一次令人兴奋的经历。波莉小姐带着一种软弱无力的放松感走出来，就像一个人在危险地走过一座非常薄的火山地壳后发现自己终于踏上坚实的土地一样。接待这对夫妇的各个职员从里面出来时，脸都涨得通红，还讲了很多关于盲目乐观的有趣故事，让他们的朋友们在这周剩下的时间里都笑得很开心。波莉安娜本人带着灿烂的笑容和内心的满足走出了困境。因为，正如她对一位店员所说的那样：“当你除了传教士桶和女士助手之外没有任何人给你穿衣服时，直接走进去买全新的衣服是非常可爱的，而且不必因为不合身而将其收起或放下！

The shopping expedition consumed the entire afternoon; then came supper and a delightful talk with Old Tom in the garden, and another with Nancy on the back porch, after the dishes were done, and while Aunt Polly paid a visit to a neighbor.
这次购物之旅花费了整个下午的时间。然后吃晚饭，在花园里与老汤姆愉快地交谈，洗完碗后，又在后门廊与南希交谈，而波莉姨妈则去拜访邻居。

Old Tom told Pollyanna wonderful things of her mother, that made her very happy indeed; and Nancy told her all about the little farm six miles away at ‘The Corners,’ where lived her own dear mother, and her equally dear brother and sisters. She promised, too, that sometime, if Miss Polly were willing, Pollyanna should be taken to see them.
老汤姆向波莉安娜讲述了她母亲的美好事情，这确实让她非常高兴。南希向她讲述了六英里外的“角落”小农场的一切，那里住着她亲爱的母亲，还有她同样亲爱的兄弟姐妹。她还答应，如果波莉小姐愿意的话，有一天，应该带波莉安娜去见他们。

‘And THEY’VE got lovely names, too. You’ll like THEIR names,’ sighed Nancy. ‘They’re ‘Algernon,’ and ‘Florabelle’ and ‘Estelle.’ I—I just hate ‘Nancy’!’
“他们也有可爱的名字。”你会喜欢他们的名字的。”南希叹了口气。 “他们是‘阿尔吉农’、‘弗洛拉贝尔’和‘埃斯特尔’。我——我只是讨厌‘南希’！”

‘Oh, Nancy, what a dreadful thing to say! Why?’
“哦，南希，说的话多可怕啊！为什么？'

‘Because it isn’t pretty like the others. You see, I was the first baby, and mother hadn’t begun ter read so many stories with the pretty names in ‘em, then.’
‘因为它和其他的不太一样。你看，我是第一个孩子，而母亲还没有开始读这么多带有漂亮名字的故事。

‘But I love ‘Nancy,’ just because it’s you,’ declared Pollyanna.
“但我爱‘南希’，只是因为它是你，”波莉安娜宣称。

‘Humph! Well, I guess you could love ‘Clarissa Mabelle’ just as well,’ retorted Nancy, and it would be a heap happier for me. I think THAT name’s just grand!’
'哼！好吧，我想你也可能会喜欢“克拉丽莎·梅贝尔”，”南希反驳道，这对我来说会更快乐。我觉得这个名字太伟大了！

Pollyanna laughed.
波莉安娜笑了。

‘Well, anyhow,’ she chuckled, ‘you can be glad it isn’t ‘Hephzibah.’
“好吧，无论如何，”她轻笑道，“你应该庆幸这不是‘赫夫兹巴’。”

‘Hephzibah!’
“赫弗兹巴！”

‘Yes. Mrs. White’s name is that. Her husband calls her ‘Hep,’ and she doesn’t like it. She says when he calls out ‘Hep—Hep!’ she feels just as if the next minute he was going to yell ‘Hurrah!’ And she doesn’t like to be hurrahed at.’
'是的。怀特夫人的名字就是这个。她的丈夫称她为“Hep”，但她不喜欢这样。她说，当他喊“哎呀——哎呀！”时，她感觉好像下一分钟他就会大喊“万岁！”，而她不喜欢被人欢呼。

Nancy’s gloomy face relaxed into a broad smile.
南希阴沉的脸放松下来，露出灿烂的笑容。

‘Well, if you don’t beat the Dutch! Say, do you know?—I sha’n’t never hear ‘Nancy’ now that I don’t think o’ that ‘Hep—Hep!’ and giggle. My, I guess I AM glad—‘ She stopped short and turned amazed eyes on the little girl. ‘Say, Miss Pollyanna, do you mean—was you playin’ that ‘ere game THEN—about my bein’ glad I wa’n’t named Hephzibah’?’
“好吧，如果你不击败荷兰人！说吧，你知道吗？——我不会再听到“南希”了，因为我不会再想起“嘿——嘿！”并咯咯地笑。天哪，我想我很高兴——”她突然停了下来，惊讶地看着小女孩。 “喂，波莉安娜小姐，你的意思是——你当时在玩那个游戏吗——我很高兴我没有被命名为赫夫兹巴”？

Pollyanna frowned; then she laughed.
波莉安娜皱起了眉头。然后她笑了。

‘Why, Nancy, that’s so! I WAS playing the game—but that’s one of the times I just did it without thinking, I reckon. You see, you DO, lots of times; you get so used to it—looking for something to be glad about, you know. And most generally there is something about everything that you can be glad about, if you keep hunting long enough to find it.’
‘为什么，南希，是这样的！我当时正在玩这个游戏——但我想，那是我不假思索地做的一次。你看，你确实做了很多次；你已经习惯了——寻找一些值得高兴的事情，你知道。一般来说，只要你持续寻找足够长的时间才能找到它，一切事物中都会有一些让你感到高兴的东西。

‘Well, m-maybe,’ granted Nancy, with open doubt.
“嗯，也许——也许，”南希承认，带着明显的疑问。

At half-past eight Pollyanna went up to bed. The screens had not yet come, and the close little room was like an oven. With longing eyes Pollyanna looked at the two fast-closed windows—but she did not raise them. She undressed, folded her clothes neatly, said her prayers, blew out her candle and climbed into bed.
八点半，波莉安娜上床睡觉。屏风还没有来，封闭的小房间就像一个烤箱。波莉安娜用渴望的目光看着两扇快速关闭的窗户——但她没有打开它们。她脱掉衣服，把衣服叠得整整齐齐，做了祈祷，吹灭了蜡烛，爬上了床。

Just how long she lay in sleepless misery, tossing from side to side of the hot little cot, she did not know; but it seemed to her that it must have been hours before she finally slipped out of bed, felt her way across the room and opened her door.
她不知道自己在闷热的小床上翻来覆去，痛苦地失眠了多久。但在她看来，一定是过了好几个小时，她才终于从床上爬起来，摸索着穿过房间，打开了门。

Out in the main attic all was velvet blackness save where the moon flung a path of silver half-way across the floor from the east dormer window. With a resolute ignoring of that fearsome darkness to the right and to the left, Pollyanna drew a quick breath and pattered straight into that silvery path, and on to the window.
主阁楼里一片漆黑，除了月亮从东侧老虎窗的地板上投射出一条银色的路径。波莉安娜坚决无视左右那可怕的黑暗，她急促地吸了一口气，径直走进那条银色的小路，一直走到窗户上。

She had hoped, vaguely, that this window might have a screen, but it did not. Outside, however, there was a wide world of fairy-like beauty, and there was, too, she knew, fresh, sweet air that would feel so good to hot cheeks and hands!
她隐隐约约地希望这扇窗户可能有纱窗，但它没有。然而，外面却是一片广阔的仙女般美丽的世界，而且，她知道，还有新鲜、甜美的空气，让滚烫的脸颊和双手感觉非常舒服！

As she stepped nearer and peered longingly out, she saw something else: she saw, only a little way below the window, the wide, flat tin roof of Miss Polly’s sun parlor built over the porte-cochere. The sight filled her with longing. If only, now, she were out there!
当她走近，渴望地向外张望时，她看到了别的东西：她看到，就在窗户下方不远的地方，波莉小姐的日光浴室的宽而平坦的铁皮屋顶建在门廊上方。这景象让她充满了渴望。如果现在她就在外面就好了！

Fearfully she looked behind her. Back there, somewhere, were her hot little room and her still hotter bed; but between her and them lay a horrid desert of blackness across which one must feel one’s way with outstretched, shrinking arms; while before her, out on the sun-parlor roof, were the moonlight and the cool, sweet night air.
她惊恐地看着身后。在那儿的某个地方，有她炎热的小房间和她更热的床。但在她和他们之间，却是一片可怕的黑暗沙漠，必须用伸出、收缩的双臂摸索才能穿过。而在她面前，阳光客厅的屋顶上，是月光和凉爽、甜美的夜风。

If only her bed were out there! And folks did sleep out of doors. Joel Hartley at home, who was so sick with the consumption, HAD to sleep out of doors.
如果她的床在那里就好了！人们确实睡在户外。乔尔·哈特利 (Joel Hartley) 在家中得了肺痨病，不得不睡在户外。

Suddenly Pollyanna remembered that she had seen near this attic window a row of long white bags hanging from nails. Nancy had said that they contained the winter clothing, put away for the summer. A little fearfully now, Pollyanna felt her way to these bags, selected a nice fat soft one (it contained Miss Polly’s sealskin coat) for a bed; and a thinner one to be doubled up for a pillow, and still another (which was so thin it seemed almost empty) for a covering. Thus equipped, Pollyanna in high glee pattered to the moonlit window again, raised the sash, stuffed her burden through to the roof below, then let herself down after it, closing the window carefully behind her—Pollyanna had not forgotten those flies with the marvellous feet that carried things.
波莉安娜突然想起她在阁楼窗户附近看到一排长长的白色袋子挂在钉子上。南希说过，里面有冬天的衣服，是夏天用的。现在有点害怕，波莉安娜摸索着找到这些袋子，选了一个又肥又软的袋子（里面装着波莉小姐的海豹皮外套）当床；还有一个较薄的，可以折叠起来当枕头，还有一个（太薄了，看起来几乎是空的）当被子。装备齐全后，波莉安娜又兴高采烈地走到月光下的窗户旁，掀起窗带，把她的担子塞到下面的屋顶上，然后放下它，小心地关上身后的窗户——波莉安娜没有忘记那些带着奇妙的苍蝇的苍蝇。用来搬东西的脚。

How deliciously cool it was! Pollyanna quite danced up and down with delight, drawing in long, full breaths of the refreshing air. The tin roof under her feet crackled with little resounding snaps that Pollyanna rather liked. She walked, indeed, two or three times back and forth from end to end—it gave her such a pleasant sensation of airy space after her hot little room; and the roof was so broad and flat that she had no fear of falling off. Finally, with a sigh of content, she curled herself up on the sealskin-coat mattress, arranged one bag for a pillow and the other for a covering, and settled herself to sleep.
真是太酷了！波莉安娜高兴得手舞足蹈，深深地呼吸着清新的空气。她脚下的铁皮屋顶发出噼啪作响的声音，波莉安娜很喜欢这种声音。确实，她从这一头到另一头来回走了两三趟——在炎热的小房间之后，这给了她一种通风的愉快感觉。屋顶又宽又平，她根本不用担心掉下来。最后，她心满意足地舒了一口气，蜷缩在海豹皮床垫上，一个袋子当枕头，另一个袋子当被子，就这样睡着了。

‘I’m so glad now that the screens didn’t come,’ she murmured, blinking up at the stars; ‘else I couldn’t have had this!’
“我现在很高兴屏幕没有出现，”她低声说道，眨着眼睛看着星星。 “否则我不可能有这个！”

Down-stairs in Miss Polly’s room next the sun parlor, Miss Polly herself was hurrying into dressing gown and slippers, her face white and frightened. A minute before she had been telephoning in a shaking voice to Timothy:
楼下，波莉小姐的房间里，靠近日光浴室的地方，波莉小姐自己正急忙穿上晨衣和拖鞋，脸色苍白，惊恐万状。一分钟前，她用颤抖的声音给蒂莫西打电话：

‘Come up quick!—you and your father. Bring lanterns. Somebody is on the roof of the sun parlor. He must have climbed up the rose-trellis or somewhere, and of course he can get right into the house through the east window in the attic. I have locked the attic door down here—but hurry, quick!’
“快上来！——你和你的父亲。”带上灯笼。有人在日光浴室的屋顶上。他一定爬上了玫瑰花架或者什么地方，当然他可以从阁楼东边的窗户直接进屋。我已经把阁楼的门锁在这里了——但是快点，快点！”

Some time later, Pollyanna, just dropping off to sleep, was startled by a lantern flash, and a trio of amazed ejaculations. She opened her eyes to find Timothy at the top of a ladder near her, Old Tom just getting through the window, and her aunt peering out at her from behind him.
过了一段时间，波莉安娜刚刚入睡，就被一道灯笼的闪光和三声惊讶的叫声吓了一跳。她睁开眼睛，发现蒂莫西在她附近的梯子顶上，老汤姆刚刚从窗户里爬出来，她的姨妈在他身后凝视着她。

‘Pollyanna, what does this mean?’ cried Aunt Polly then.
“波莉安娜，这是什么意思？”波莉姨妈喊道。

Pollyanna blinked sleepy eyes and sat up.
波莉安娜眨着惺忪的睡眼坐了起来。

‘Why, Mr. Tom—Aunt Polly!’ she stammered. ‘Don’t look so scared! It isn’t that I’ve got the consumption, you know, like Joel Hartley. It’s only that I was so hot—in there. But I shut the window, Aunt Polly, so the flies couldn’t carry those germ-things in.’
“哎呀，汤姆先生——波莉阿姨！”她结结巴巴地说。 ‘别显得那么害怕！你知道，我并不是像乔尔·哈特利那样患有肺结核。只是我在那里太热了。但我关上了窗户，波莉阿姨，这样苍蝇就无法把那些细菌带进来。”

Timothy disappeared suddenly down the ladder. Old Tom, with almost equal precipitation, handed his lantern to Miss Polly, and followed his son. Miss Polly bit her lip hard—until the men were gone; then she said sternly:
蒂莫西突然从梯子上消失了。老汤姆几乎同样冷静地把灯笼递给波莉小姐，然后跟在儿子身后。波莉小姐用力咬着嘴唇——直到男人们都走了。然后她严肃地说：

‘Pollyanna, hand those things to me at once and come in here. Of all the extraordinary children!’ she ejaculated a little later, as, with Pollyanna by her side, and the lantern in her hand, she turned back into the attic.
‘波莉安娜，立刻把这些东西交给我，然后到这里来。过了一会儿，她喊道，波莉安娜在她身边，手里拿着灯笼，转身回到阁楼。

To Pollyanna the air was all the more stifling after that cool breath of the out of doors; but she did not complain. She only drew a long quivering sigh.
对波莉安娜来说，在室外的凉爽气息过后，空气变得更加令人窒息。但她没有抱怨。她只是颤抖着长长地叹了口气。

At the top of the stairs Miss Polly jerked out crisply:
波莉小姐在楼梯顶上尖锐地喊道：

‘For the rest of the night, Pollyanna, you are to sleep in my bed with me. The screens will be here to-morrow, but until then I consider it my duty to keep you where I know where you are.’
‘波莉安娜，今晚剩下的时间里，你要和我一起睡在我的床上。屏幕明天就会出现，但在那之前我认为我有责任让你留在我知道的地方。

Pollyanna drew in her breath.
波莉安娜吸了一口气。

‘With you?—in your bed?’ she cried rapturously. ‘Oh, Aunt Polly, Aunt Polly, how perfectly lovely of you! And when I’ve so wanted to sleep with some one sometime—some one that belonged to me, you know; not a Ladies’ Aider. I’ve HAD them. My! I reckon I am glad now those screens didn’t come! Wouldn’t you be?’
“和你在一起？——在你的床上？”她兴高采烈地喊道。 “哦，波莉阿姨，波莉阿姨，你真是太可爱了！当我非常想和某个人一起睡觉时——一个属于我的人，你知道；不是女士助理。我已经拥有它们了。我的！我想我很高兴现在那些屏幕没有出现！你不会吗？

There was no reply. Miss Polly was stalking on ahead. Miss Polly, to tell the truth, was feeling curiously helpless. For the third time since Pollyanna’s arrival, Miss Polly was punishing Pollyanna—and for the third time she was being confronted with the amazing fact that her punishment was being taken as a special reward of merit. No wonder Miss Polly was feeling curiously helpless.
没有回复。波莉小姐在前面紧追不舍。说实话，波莉小姐感到一种奇怪的无助感。自从波莉安娜到来以来，这是波莉小姐第三次惩罚波莉安娜——而且她第三次面临这样一个令人惊讶的事实：她的惩罚被视为对功绩的特殊奖励。难怪波莉小姐感到奇怪的无助。

CHAPTER VIII. POLLYANNA PAYS A VISIT
第八章。波莉安娜来访

It was not long before life at the Harrington homestead settled into something like order—though not exactly the order that Miss Polly had at first prescribed. Pollyanna sewed, practised, read aloud, and studied cooking in the kitchen, it is true; but she did not give to any of these things quite so much time as had first been planned. She had more time, also, to ‘just live,’ as she expressed it, for almost all of every afternoon from two until six o’clock was hers to do with as she liked—provided she did not ‘like’ to do certain things already prohibited by Aunt Polly.
没过多久，哈灵顿庄园的生活就变得秩序井然——尽管并不完全是波莉小姐最初规定的秩序。波莉安娜在厨房里缝纫、练习、朗读、学习烹饪，这是事实。但她并没有像最初计划的那样花那么多时间来处理这些事情。正如她所说，她还有更多的时间“只是生活”，因为几乎每天下午从两点到六点的时间都是她可以做的，只要她不“喜欢”做某些事情。波莉阿姨已经禁止的事情。

It is a question, perhaps, whether all this leisure time was given to the child as a relief to Pollyanna from work—or as a relief to Aunt Polly from Pollyanna. Certainly, as those first July days passed, Miss Polly found occasion many times to ejaculate ‘What an extraordinary child!’ and certainly the reading and sewing lessons found her at their conclusion each day somewhat dazed and wholly exhausted.
或许，问题是，给予孩子所有这些闲暇时间，是为了让波莉安娜从工作中解脱出来，还是为了让波莉阿姨从盲目乐观中解脱出来。当然，随着七月的头几天过去，波莉小姐多次有机会感叹“真是一个非凡的孩子！”当然，阅读和缝纫课每天结束时她都感到有些茫然和疲惫不堪。

Nancy, in the kitchen, fared better. She was not dazed nor exhausted. Wednesdays and Saturdays came to be, indeed, red-letter days to her.
南希在厨房里表现得更好。她既不茫然，也不疲惫。周三和周六对她来说确实是值得庆贺的日子。

There were no children in the immediate neighborhood of the Harrington homestead for Pollyanna to play with. The house itself was on the outskirts of the village, and though there were other houses not far away, they did not chance to contain any boys or girls near Pollyanna’s age. This, however, did not seem to disturb Pollyanna in the least.
哈林顿庄园附近没有可供波莉安娜玩耍的孩子。房子本身就在村子的郊区，虽然不远处还有其他房子，但里面没有机会住上与波莉安娜年龄相近的男孩或女孩。然而，这似乎并没有让波莉安娜感到丝毫不安。

‘Oh, no, I don’t mind it at all,’ she explained to Nancy. ‘I’m happy just to walk around and see the streets and the houses and watch the people. I just love people. Don’t you, Nancy?’
“哦，不，我一点也不介意，”她向南希解释道。 “我很高兴能四处走走，看看街道和房屋，看看人们。我只是爱人们。你不是吗，南希？

‘Well, I can’t say I do—all of ‘em,’ retorted Nancy, tersely.
“好吧，我不能说我知道——他们所有人都知道，”南希简洁地反驳道。

Almost every pleasant afternoon found Pollyanna begging for ‘an errand to run,’ so that she might be off for a walk in one direction or another; and it was on these walks that frequently she met the Man. To herself Pollyanna always called him ‘the Man,’ no matter if she met a dozen other men the same day.
几乎每个愉快的下午，波莉安娜都会乞求“有件事要办”，这样她就可以去某个方向或另一个方向散步；正是在这些散步中，她经常遇到那个男人。波莉安娜总是称他为“男人”，无论她同一天是否遇到了其他十几个男人。

The Man often wore a long black coat and a high silk hat—two things that the ‘just men’ never wore. His face was clean shaven and rather pale, and his hair, showing below his hat, was somewhat gray. He walked erect, and rather rapidly, and he was always alone, which made Pollyanna vaguely sorry for him. Perhaps it was because of this that she one day spoke to him.
男人经常穿一件黑色长外套，戴着一顶高丝帽——这两件东西是“正义之人”从不戴的。他的脸刮得很干净，脸色相当苍白，帽子下面露出的头发有些灰白。他笔直地走着，而且速度相当快，而且总是独自一人，这让波莉安娜隐约为他感到难过。也许正是因为如此，她有一天才和他说话。

‘How do you do, sir? Isn’t this a nice day?’ she called cheerily, as she approached him.
‘你好吗，先生？今天不是美好的一天吗？”她走近他时高兴地喊道。

The man threw a hurried glance about him, then stopped uncertainly.
那人匆匆扫了一眼四周，然后犹豫地停了下来。

‘Did you speak—to me?’ he asked in a sharp voice.
“你对我说话了吗？”他尖声问道。

‘Yes, sir,’ beamed Pollyanna. ‘I say, it’s a nice day, isn’t it?’
“是的，先生。”波莉安娜微笑着说。 “我说，今天是美好的一天，不是吗？”

‘Eh? Oh! Humph!’ he grunted; and strode on again.
‘呃？哦！哼！”他咕哝道。然后又大步向前走。

Pollyanna laughed. He was such a funny man, she thought.
波莉安娜笑了。他真是个有趣的人，她想。

The next day she saw him again.
第二天，她又见到了他。

‘ ‘Tisn’t quite so nice as yesterday, but it’s pretty nice,’ she called out cheerfully.
“虽然不像昨天那么好，但也相当不错了，”她高兴地喊道。

‘Eh? Oh! Humph!’ grunted the man as before; and once again Pollyanna laughed happily.
‘呃？哦！哼！”那人一如既往地哼了一声。波莉安娜再次开心地笑了。

When for the third time Pollyanna accosted him in much the same manner, the man stopped abruptly.
当波莉安娜第三次以同样的方式向他搭话时，那人突然停了下来。

‘See here, child, who are you, and why are you speaking to me every day?’
“看这里，孩子，你是谁，为什么你每天都跟我说话？”

‘I’m Pollyanna Whittier, and I thought you looked lonesome. I’m so glad you stopped. Now we’re introduced—only I don’t know your name yet.’
“我是波莉安娜·惠蒂尔，我觉得你看起来很孤独。我很高兴你停下来了。现在我们已经互相介绍了——只是我还不知道你的名字。”

‘Well, of all the—‘ The man did not finish his sentence, but strode on faster than ever.
“好吧，最重要的是——”男人没有把话说完，而是迈着更快的步伐继续前行。

Pollyanna looked after him with a disappointed droop to her usually smiling lips.
波莉安娜看着他，一向微笑的嘴唇失望地耷拉着。

‘Maybe he didn’t understand—but that was only half an introduction. I don’t know HIS name, yet,’ she murmured, as she proceeded on her way.
“也许他不明白——但这只是一半的介绍。我还不知道他的名字。”她一边继续前行，一边低声说道。

Pollyanna was carrying calf’s-foot jelly to Mrs. Snow to-day. Miss Polly Harrington always sent something to Mrs. Snow once a week. She said she thought that it was her duty, inasmuch as Mrs. Snow was poor, sick, and a member of her church—it was the duty of all the church members to look out for her, of course. Miss Polly did her duty by Mrs. Snow usually on Thursday afternoons—not personally, but through Nancy. To-day Pollyanna had begged the privilege, and Nancy had promptly given it to her in accordance with Miss Polly’s orders.
波莉安娜今天给斯诺太太端着小牛脚果冻。波莉·哈林顿小姐总是每周给斯诺夫人寄一次东西。她说她认为这是她的责任，因为斯诺夫人又穷又病，又是她教会的成员——当然，照顾她是所有教会成员的责任。波莉小姐通常在星期四下午由斯诺夫人履行职责——不是亲自履行，而是通过南希履行职责。今天波莉安娜请求了这一特权，南希立即按照波莉小姐的命令给予了她这一特权。

‘And it’s glad that I am ter get rid of it,’ Nancy had declared in private afterwards to Pollyanna; ‘though it’s a shame ter be tuckin’ the job off on ter you, poor lamb, so it is, it is!’
“很高兴我能摆脱它，”南希后来私下对波莉安娜宣称。 “虽然把这份工作交给你是一件耻辱，可怜的羔羊，但事实就是如此，就是如此！”

‘But I’d love to do it, Nancy.’
“但我很乐意这么做，南希。”

‘Well, you won’t—after you’ve done it once,’ predicted Nancy, sourly.
“好吧，你不会的——在你做过一次之后，”南希酸溜溜地预测道。

‘Why not?’
'为什么不？'

‘Because nobody does. If folks wa’n’t sorry for her there wouldn’t a soul go near her from mornin’ till night, she’s that cantankerous. All is, I pity her daughter what HAS ter take care of her.’
‘因为没有人这样做。如果人们不同情她，从早到晚就不会有人靠近她，她就是这么脾气暴躁。总而言之，我可怜她的女儿，有什么人照顾她。

‘But, why, Nancy?’
“但是，为什么呢，南希？”

Nancy shrugged her shoulders.
南希耸耸肩。

‘Well, in plain words, it’s just that nothin’ what ever has happened, has happened right in Mis’ Snow’s eyes. Even the days of the week ain’t run ter her mind. If it’s Monday she’s bound ter say she wished ‘twas Sunday; and if you take her jelly you’re pretty sure ter hear she wanted chicken—but if you DID bring her chicken, she’d be jest hankerin’ for lamb broth!’
‘嗯，简单来说，就是在雪小姐的眼里，发生过的一切都没有发生过。她甚至连一周中的哪几天都不在意。如果是星期一，她一定会说她希望“是星期日”；如果你拿了她的果冻，你肯定听说她想要鸡肉——但如果你确实给她带来了鸡肉，她会开玩笑地渴望羊肉汤！

‘Why, what a funny woman,’ laughed Pollyanna. ‘I think I shall like to go to see her. She must be so surprising and—and different. I love DIFFERENT folks.’
“哎呀，真是个有趣的女人啊，”波莉安娜笑道。 “我想我应该去看看她。她一定很令人惊讶，而且——而且与众不同。我爱不同的人。

‘Humph! Well, Mis’ Snow’s ‘different,’ all right—I hope, for the sake of the rest of us!’ Nancy had finished grimly.
'哼！好吧，米斯·斯诺‘与众不同’，好吧——我希望，为了我们其他人！”南希冷酷地结束了。

Pollyanna was thinking of these remarks to-day as she turned in at the gate of the shabby little cottage. Her eyes were quite sparkling, indeed, at the prospect of meeting this ‘different’ Mrs. Snow.
今天，波莉安娜在那间破旧的小屋门口转身时，正在思考这些话。确实，一想到要见到这位“不同的”斯诺夫人，她的眼睛就闪闪发光。

A pale-faced, tired-looking young girl answered her knock at the door.
门外响起了敲门声，一位面色苍白、疲惫不堪的年轻女孩应了门。

‘How do you do?’ began Pollyanna politely. ‘I’m from Miss Polly Harrington, and I’d like to see Mrs. Snow, please.’
“你好吗？”波莉安娜礼貌地说道。 “我来自波莉·哈林顿小姐，我想见见斯诺夫人。”

‘Well, if you would, you’re the first one that ever ‘liked’ to see her,’ muttered the girl under her breath; but Pollyanna did not hear this. The girl had turned and was leading the way through the hall to a door at the end of it.
“好吧，如果你愿意的话，你就是第一个‘喜欢’见到她的人，”女孩小声嘀咕道。但波莉安娜没有听到这些。女孩转身，正带路穿过大厅，来到大厅尽头的一扇门前。

In the sick-room, after the girl had ushered her in and closed the door, Pollyanna blinked a little before she could accustom her eyes to the gloom. Then she saw, dimly outlined, a woman half-sitting up in the bed across the room. Pollyanna advanced at once.
病房里，女孩把她引入并关上门后，波莉安娜眨了眨眼睛，才让眼睛适应阴暗的环境。然后她隐约看到房间对面的床上有一个女人半坐起来。波莉安娜立即向前推进。

‘How do you do, Mrs. Snow? Aunt Polly says she hopes you are comfortable to-day, and she’s sent you some calf’s-foot jelly.’
“你好吗，斯诺夫人？”波莉阿姨说她希望你今天过得舒服，她给你寄了一些牛脚果冻。

‘Dear me! jelly?’ murmured a fretful voice,
'亲爱的我！果冻？”一个焦躁的声音低声说道，

‘Of course I’m very much obliged, but I was hoping ‘twould be lamb broth to-day.’
“我当然非常感激，但我希望‘今天是羊肉汤。’”

Pollyanna frowned a little.
波莉安娜微微皱起眉头。

‘Why, I thought it was CHICKEN you wanted when folks brought you jelly,’ she said.
“为什么，当人们给你带来果冻时，我以为你想要的是鸡肉，”她说。

‘What?’ The sick woman turned sharply.
“什么？”病妇猛地转过身来。

‘Why, nothing, much,’ apologized Pollyanna, hurriedly; ‘and of course it doesn’t really make any difference. It’s only that Nancy said it was chicken you wanted when we brought jelly, and lamb broth when we brought chicken—but maybe ‘twas the other way, and Nancy forgot.’
“哎呀，没什么，太多了，”波莉安娜连忙道歉。 ‘当然，这并没有什么区别。只是南希说，当我们带果冻时，你想要的是鸡肉；当我们带鸡肉时，南希说你想要羊肉汤——但也许“事实恰恰相反，南希忘了。”

The sick woman pulled herself up till she sat erect in the bed—a most unusual thing for her to do, though Pollyanna did not know this.
那个生病的女人站了起来，直直地坐在床上——这对她来说是一件很不寻常的事情，尽管波莉安娜并不知道这一点。

‘Well, Miss Impertinence, who are you?’ she demanded.
“那么，无礼小姐，你是谁？”她问道。

Pollyanna laughed gleefully.
波莉安娜高兴地笑了。

‘Oh, THAT isn’t my name, Mrs. Snow—and I’m so glad ‘tisn’t, too! That would be worse than ‘Hephzibah,’ wouldn’t it? I’m Pollyanna Whittier, Miss Polly Harrington’s niece, and I’ve come to live with her. That’s why I’m here with the jelly this morning.’
“噢，那不是我的名字，斯诺夫人——我很高兴‘这也不是我的名字！’”那会比“Hephzibah”更糟糕，不是吗？我是波莉安娜·惠蒂尔，波莉·哈林顿小姐的侄女，我来和她住在一起。这就是为什么我今天早上带着果冻来到这里。”

All through the first part of this sentence, the sick woman had sat interestedly erect; but at the reference to the jelly she fell back on her pillow listlessly.
在这句话的第一部分中，这位生病的女人一直饶有兴趣地坐得笔直。但一提到果冻，她就无精打采地倒在枕头上。

‘Very well; thank you. Your aunt is very kind, of course, but my appetite isn’t very good this morning, and I was wanting lamb—‘ She stopped suddenly, then went on with an abrupt change of subject. ‘I never slept a wink last night—not a wink!’
'很好;谢谢。当然，你姑姑很友善，但是我今天早上胃口不太好，我想吃羊肉——”她突然停了下来，然后突然改变了话题。 “我昨晚一夜没合眼——一夜没合眼！”

‘O dear, I wish I didn’t,’ sighed Pollyanna, placing the jelly on the little stand and seating herself comfortably in the nearest chair. ‘You lose such a lot of time just sleeping! Don’t you think so?’
“哦，亲爱的，我希望我没有这么做，”波莉安娜叹了口气，把果冻放在小架子上，​​然后舒适地坐在最近的椅子上。 ‘你光是睡觉就浪费了很多时间！你不这么认为吗？

‘Lose time—sleeping!’ exclaimed the sick woman.
“抓紧时间——睡觉吧！”病人喊道。

‘Yes, when you might be just living, you know. It seems such a pity we can’t live nights, too.’
“是的，当你还活着的时候，你知道。看来我们也不能过夜了，真是太遗憾了。”

Once again the woman pulled herself erect in her bed.
女人再次在床上直起身子。

‘Well, if you ain’t the amazing young one!’ she cried. ‘Here! do you go to that window and pull up the curtain,’ she directed. ‘I should like to know what you look like!’
“好吧，如果你不是那个了不起的年轻人的话！”她喊道。 '这里！你去那扇窗户拉起窗帘吗？”她指示道。 “我想知道你长什么样！”

Pollyanna rose to her feet, but she laughed a little ruefully.
波莉安娜站了起来，但她笑得有点悲伤。

‘O dear! then you’ll see my freckles, won’t you?’ she sighed, as she went to the window; ‘—and just when I was being so glad it was dark and you couldn’t see ‘em. There! Now you can—oh!’ she broke off excitedly, as she turned back to the bed; ‘I’m so glad you wanted to see me, because now I can see you! They didn’t tell me you were so pretty!’
‘哦，亲爱的！然后你就会看到我的雀斑了，不是吗？”她叹了口气，走到窗前。 ’——就在我很高兴的时候，天已经黑了，你看不到他们。那里！现在你可以——哦！”她兴奋地停了下来，然后转身回到床上。 “我很高兴你想见我，因为现在我可以见到你了！他们没有告诉我你有多漂亮！”

‘Me!—pretty!’ scoffed the woman, bitterly.
“我！——漂亮！”女人苦涩地嘲笑道。

‘Why, yes. Didn’t you know it?’ cried Pollyanna.
'为什么是。你不知道吗？”波莉安娜喊道。

‘Well, no, I didn’t,’ retorted Mrs. Snow, dryly. Mrs. Snow had lived forty years, and for fifteen of those years she had been too busy wishing things were different to find much time to enjoy things as they were.
“嗯，不，我没有，”斯诺夫人干巴巴地反驳道。斯诺夫人已经活了四十岁了，其中十五年她一直忙于希望事情有所不同，没有时间享受事物本来的样子。

‘Oh, but your eyes are so big and dark, and your hair’s all dark, too, and curly,’ cooed Pollyanna. ‘I love black curls. (That’s one of the things I’m going to have when I get to Heaven.) And you’ve got two little red spots in your cheeks. Why, Mrs. Snow, you ARE pretty! I should think you’d know it when you looked at yourself in the glass.’
“哦，但是你的眼睛又大又黑，你的头发也是黑的，而且是卷曲的，”波莉安娜轻声说道。 “我喜欢黑色卷发。 （这是我到达天堂后将会拥有的东西之一。） 你的脸颊上有两个小红点。哎呀，斯诺夫人，你真漂亮！我想，当你看着镜子里的自己时，你就会知道这一点。

‘The glass!’ snapped the sick woman, falling back on her pillow. ‘Yes, well, I hain’t done much prinkin’ before the mirror these days—and you wouldn’t, if you was flat on your back as I am!’
“玻璃！”生病的女人厉声说道，倒在枕头上。 “是的，好吧，这些天我没有在镜子前做过太多的打扮——如果你像我一样平躺着的话，你也不会！”

‘Why, no, of course not,’ agreed Pollyanna, sympathetically. ‘But wait—just let me show you,’ she exclaimed, skipping over to the bureau and picking up a small hand-glass.
“为什么，不，当然不是，”波莉安娜同情地表示同意。 “但是等等——让我给你看一下，”她喊道，跳到写字台前，拿起一个小玻璃杯。

On the way back to the bed she stopped, eyeing the sick woman with a critical gaze.
在回到床上的路上，她停了下来，用批判的目光看着病人。

‘I reckon maybe, if you don’t mind, I’d like to fix your hair just a little before I let you see it,’ she proposed. ‘May I fix your hair, please?’
“我想，如果你不介意的话，我想在让你看到它之前稍微整理一下你的头发，”她提议道。 “我可以帮您理一下头发吗？”

‘Why, I—suppose so, if you want to,’ permitted Mrs. Snow, grudgingly; ‘but ‘twon’t stay, you know.’
“哎呀，我想是这样，如果你愿意的话，”斯诺夫人不情愿地允许道。 “但是‘你知道，我们不会留下来。’”

‘Oh, thank you. I love to fix people’s hair,’ exulted Pollyanna, carefully laying down the hand-glass and reaching for a comb. ‘I sha’n’t do much to-day, of course—I’m in such a hurry for you to see how pretty you are; but some day I’m going to take it all down and have a perfectly lovely time with it, she cried, touching with soft fingers the waving hair above the sick woman’s forehead.
'哦谢谢。我喜欢给别人打理头发。”波莉安娜兴奋地说，小心翼翼地放下玻璃杯，伸手去拿一把梳子。 “当然，我今天不会做太多事情——我急于让你看看你有多漂亮； “但有一天我会把这一切都记下来，享受一段完美的美好时光，”她哭道，用柔软的手指抚摸着病人额头上方飘逸的头发。

For five minutes Pollyanna worked swiftly, deftly, combing a refractory curl into fluffiness, perking up a drooping ruffle at the neck, or shaking a pillow into plumpness so that the head might have a better pose. Meanwhile the sick woman, frowning prodigiously, and openly scoffing at the whole procedure, was, in spite of herself, beginning to tingle with a feeling perilously near to excitement.
在五分钟的时间里，波莉安娜迅速、灵巧地工作，把难处理的卷发梳理成蓬松的样子，把脖子上下垂的褶边竖起来，或者把枕头摇得蓬松，这样头部就能有一个更好的姿势。与此同时，那位生病的妇女皱着眉头，公然嘲笑整个过程，她不由自主地开始感到一种接近兴奋的危险感觉。

‘There!’ panted Pollyanna, hastily plucking a pink from a vase near by and tucking it into the dark hair where it would give the best effect. ‘Now I reckon we’re ready to be looked at!’ And she held out the mirror in triumph.
“那儿！”波莉安娜气喘吁吁地说道，她急忙从附近的花瓶里拔出一朵粉色的花，塞进深色的头发里，这样效果最好。 “现在我想我们已经准备好接受人们的审视了！”她胜利地举起了镜子。

‘Humph!’ grunted the sick woman, eyeing her reflection severely. ‘I like red pinks better than pink ones; but then, it’ll fade, anyhow, before night, so what’s the difference!’
“哼！”生病的女人咕哝了一声，严厉地看着自己的倒影。 “比起粉红色，我更喜欢红粉色；但无论如何，它会在晚上之前消失，所以有什么区别！

‘But I should think you’d be glad they did fade,’ laughed Pollyanna, ‘ ‘cause then you can have the fun of getting some more. I just love your hair fluffed out like that,’ she finished with a satisfied gaze. ‘Don’t you?’
“但我想你会很高兴它们褪色了，”波莉安娜笑着说，“因为这样你就可以享受得到更多东西的乐趣。”我就是喜欢你的头发像这样蓬松。”她用满意的眼神结束了演讲。 “你不这么认为吗？”

‘Hm-m; maybe. Still—‘twon’t last, with me tossing back and forth on the pillow as I do.’
'唔;或许。不过——“这并没有持续多久，我在枕头上来回翻腾。”

‘Of course not—and I’m glad, too,’ nodded Pollyanna, cheerfully, ‘because then I can fix it again. Anyhow, I should think you’d be glad it’s black—black shows up so much nicer on a pillow than yellow hair like mine does.’
“当然不是——我也很高兴，”波莉安娜高兴地点点头，“因为这样我就可以再次修复它了。”不管怎样，我想你会很高兴它是黑色的——黑色放在枕头上比我这样的黄色头发好看得多。

‘Maybe; but I never did set much store by black hair—shows gray too soon,’ retorted Mrs. Snow. She spoke fretfully, but she still held the mirror before her face.
'或许;但我从来没有太重视黑发——很快就变白了。”斯诺夫人反驳道。她焦急地说着，但仍把镜子举在面前。

‘Oh, I love black hair! I should be so glad if I only had it,’ sighed Pollyanna.
‘哦，我喜欢黑头发！如果我能拥有它，我会很高兴的。”波莉安娜叹息道。

Mrs. Snow dropped the mirror and turned irritably.
斯诺夫人放下镜子，烦躁地转过身来。

‘Well, you wouldn’t!—not if you were me. You wouldn’t be glad for black hair nor anything else—if you had to lie here all day as I do!’
“好吧，你不会的！——如果你是我就不会。”如果你像我一样整天躺在这里，你就不会为黑头发或其他任何东西感到高兴！

Pollyanna bent her brows in a thoughtful frown.
波莉安娜皱起眉头，若有所思。

‘Why, ‘twould be kind of hard—to do it then, wouldn’t it?’ she mused aloud.
“为什么，‘那么做起来会有点困难，不是吗？’她大声沉思道。

‘Do what?’
'做什么？'

‘Be glad about things.’
“对事情感到高兴。”

‘Be glad about things—when you’re sick in bed all your days? Well, I should say it would,’ retorted Mrs. Snow. ‘If you don’t think so, just tell me something to be glad about; that’s all!’
‘当你整天卧病在床时，要对事情感到高兴吗？嗯，我应该说会的，”斯诺夫人反驳道。 “如果你不这么认为，就告诉我一些值得高兴的事情；就这样！'

To Mrs. Snow’s unbounded amazement, Pollyanna sprang to her feet and clapped her hands.
让斯诺夫人无比惊讶的是，波莉安娜跳了起来，拍起了手。

‘Oh, goody! That’ll be a hard one—won’t it? I’ve got to go, now, but I’ll think and think all the way home; and maybe the next time I come I can tell it to you. Good-by. I’ve had a lovely time! Good-by,’ she called again, as she tripped through the doorway.
‘噢，太好了！这将是一件困难的事情，不是吗？我现在得走了，但回家的路上我会想啊想啊；也许下次我来的时候我可以告诉你。有效期。我度过了一段美好的时光！再见，”当她跌跌撞撞地走进门口时，她再次喊道。

‘Well, I never! Now, what does she mean by that?’ ejaculated Mrs. Snow, staring after her visitor. By and by she turned her head and picked up the mirror, eyeing her reflection critically.
'嗯，我从来没有！现在，她这话是什么意思？”斯诺夫人盯着来访者的背影，脱口而出。过了一会儿，她转过头，拿起镜子，审视着自己的倒影。

‘That little thing HAS got a knack with hair and no mistake,’ she muttered under her breath. ‘I declare, I didn’t know it could look so pretty. But then, what’s the use?’ she sighed, dropping the little glass into the bedclothes, and rolling her head on the pillow fretfully.
“那小东西对头发很有一套，没错，”她小声嘀咕道。 “我声明，我不知道它可以看起来这么漂亮。但那又有什么用呢？”她叹了口气，把小玻璃杯扔进了床单里，烦躁地把头在枕头上滚动。

A little later, when Milly, Mrs. Snow’s daughter, came in, the mirror still lay among the bedclothes it had been carefully hidden from sight.
过了一会儿，当斯诺夫人的女儿米莉进来时，镜子还躺在床上，被小心翼翼地藏起来。

‘Why, mother—the curtain is up!’ cried Milly, dividing her amazed stare between the window and the pink in her mother’s hair.
“哎呀，妈妈——窗帘拉上了！”米莉喊道，她惊讶的目光落在窗户和妈妈粉红色的头发之间。

‘Well, what if it is?’ snapped the sick woman. ‘I needn’t stay in the dark all my life, if I am sick, need I?’
“好吧，如果是的话怎么办？”生病的女人厉声问道。 “我不必一辈子都生活在黑暗中，如果我生病了，不是吗？”

‘Why, n-no, of course not,’ rejoined Milly, in hasty conciliation, as she reached for the medicine bottle. ‘It’s only—well, you know very well that I’ve tried to get you to have a lighter room for ages and you wouldn’t.’
“为什么，不——不，当然不是，”米莉一边急忙安抚地回答，一边伸手去拿药瓶。 “只是——嗯，你很清楚，多年来我一直试图让你拥有一个更明亮的房间，但你不肯。”

There was no reply to this. Mrs. Snow was picking at the lace on her nightgown. At last she spoke fretfully.
对此没有任何回复。斯诺夫人正在扯睡衣上的花边。最后她焦急地说道。

‘I should think SOMEBODY might give me a new nightdress—instead of lamb broth, for a change!
“我想也许有人会给我一件新睡衣——而不是羊肉汤，作为改变！”

‘Why—mother!’
“为什么——妈妈！”

No wonder Milly quite gasped aloud with bewilderment. In the drawer behind her at that moment lay two new nightdresses that Milly for months had been vainly urging her mother to wear.
难怪米莉困惑地喘着粗气。这时，她身后的抽屉里放着两件新睡衣，米莉几个月来一直催促她妈妈穿上，但徒劳无功。

CHAPTER IX. WHICH TELLS OF THE MAN
第九章。讲述男人的故事

It rained the next time Pollyanna saw the Man. She greeted him, however, with a bright smile.
波莉安娜下次见到这个人时，下雨了。然而，她却带着灿烂的微笑向他打招呼。

‘It isn’t so nice to-day, is it?’ she called blithesomely. ‘I’m glad it doesn’t rain always, anyhow!’
“今天不太好，是吗？”她愉快地喊道。 “无论如何，我很高兴不会总是下雨！”

The man did not even grunt this time, nor turn his head. Pollyanna decided that of course he did not hear her. The next time, therefore (which happened to be the following day), she spoke up louder. She thought it particularly necessary to do this, anyway, for the Man was striding along, his hands behind his back, and his eyes on the ground—which seemed, to Pollyanna, preposterous in the face of the glorious sunshine and the freshly-washed morning air: Pollyanna, as a special treat, was on a morning errand to-day.
这一次，男人没有哼一声，也没有回头。波莉安娜认定他当然没有听到她的声音。因此，下一次（碰巧是第二天）她说话的声音更大了。无论如何，她认为这样做特别有必要，因为那个男人正大步走着，双手放在背后，眼睛盯着地面——在波莉安娜看来，面对灿烂的阳光和刚洗过的水，这似乎是荒谬的。早晨的空气：波莉安娜今天早上出去办事，这是一种特殊的享受。

‘How do you do?’ she chirped. ‘I’m so glad it isn’t yesterday, aren’t you?
“你好吗？”她叽叽喳喳地说。 “我很高兴这不是昨天，不是吗？

The man stopped abruptly. There was an angry scowl on his face.
男人猛地停了下来。他的脸上浮现出愤怒的表情。

‘See here, little girl, we might just as well settle this thing right now, once for all,’ he began testily. ‘I’ve got something besides the weather to think of. I don’t know whether the sun shines or not.’ Pollyanna beamed joyously.
“看这里，小女孩，我们不妨现在就解决这件事，一劳永逸，”他暴躁地说。 “除了天气之外，我还有一些事情要考虑。我不知道阳光是否照耀。”波莉安娜高兴地微笑着。

‘No, sir; I thought you didn’t. That’s why I told you.’
'不，先生;我以为你没有。这就是我告诉你的原因。

‘Yes; well—Eh? What?’ he broke off sharply, in sudden understanding of her words.
'是的;嗯——呃？什么？”他突然停了下来，突然明白了她的话。

‘I say, that’s why I told you—so you would notice it, you know—that the sun shines, and all that. I knew you’d be glad it did if you only stopped to think of it—and you didn’t look a bit as if you WERE thinking of it!’
“我说，这就是为什么我告诉你——这样你就会注意到，你知道——阳光普照，诸如此类。我知道，只要你停下来想一想，你就会很高兴——而且你看起来一点也不像在想它！

‘Well, of all the—‘ ejaculated the man, with an oddly impotent gesture. He started forward again, but after the second step he turned back, still frowning.
“好吧，最重要的是——”男人脱口而出，做出了一种奇怪的无力的姿态。他又开始向前走，但迈出第二步后，他又回头了，仍然皱着眉头。

‘See here, why don’t you find some one your own age to talk to?’
“看这里，你为什么不找一个和你同龄的人谈谈呢？”

‘I’d like to, sir, but there aren’t any ‘round here, Nancy says. Still, I don’t mind so very much. I like old folks just as well, maybe better, sometimes—being used to the Ladies’ Aid, so.’
“我很愿意，先生，但是这里没有，”南希说。不过，我不太介意。我也喜欢老人，有时可能更喜欢老人——习惯了“女士援助”，所以。

‘Humph! The Ladies’ Aid, indeed! Is that what you took me for?’ The man’s lips were threatening to smile, but the scowl above them was still trying to hold them grimly stern.
'哼！确实是《女士们的援助》！你就是这么以为我的？”男人的嘴角扬起微笑，但脸上的愁容却仍让他们保持着冷酷的表情。

Pollyanna laughed gleefully.
波莉安娜高兴地笑了。

‘Oh, no, sir. You don’t look a mite like a Ladies’ Aider—not but that you’re just as good, of course—maybe better,’ she added in hurried politeness. ‘You see, I’m sure you’re much nicer than you look!’
“哦，不，先生。你看起来一点也不像女士助理——当然，你也一样好——也许更好，”她急忙礼貌地补充道。 “你看，我确信你比看上去要好得多！”

The man made a queer noise in his throat.
男人喉咙里发出奇怪的声音。

‘Well, of all the—‘ he ejaculated again, as he turned and strode on as before.
“好吧，最重要的是——”他再次脱口而出，然后像以前一样转身大步走去。

The next time Pollyanna met the Man, his eyes were gazing straight into hers, with a quizzical directness that made his face look really pleasant, Pollyanna thought.
波莉安娜下次见到这个男人时，他的眼睛直视着她的眼睛，带着一种好奇的直率，让他的脸看起来非常愉快，波莉安娜想。

‘Good afternoon,’ he greeted her a little stiffly. ‘Perhaps I’d better say right away that I KNOW the sun is shining to-day.’
“下午好。”他有点生硬地向她打招呼。 “也许我最好立即说我知道今天阳光明媚。”

‘But you don’t have to tell me,’ nodded Pollyanna, brightly. ‘I KNEW you knew it just as soon as I saw you.’
“但你不必告诉我，”波莉安娜明亮地点点头。 “我一看到你就知道你知道了。”

‘Oh, you did, did you?’
“哦，你做到了，是吗？”

‘Yes, sir; I saw it in your eyes, you know, and in your smile.’
'是的先生;我从你的眼睛和微笑中看到了这一点。

‘Humph!’ grunted the man, as he passed on.
“哼！”那人咕哝了一声，走过去。

The Man always spoke to Pollyanna after this, and frequently he spoke first, though usually he said little but ‘good afternoon.’ Even that, however, was a great surprise to Nancy, who chanced to be with Pollyanna one day when the greeting was given.
此后，这个男人总是和波莉安娜说话，而且经常是他先开口，尽管他通常只说“下午好”。然而，即便如此，南希还是很惊讶，有一天，她碰巧和波莉安娜在一起，当时问候是给予。

‘Sakes alive, Miss Pollyanna,’ she gasped, ‘did that man SPEAK TO YOU?’
“天哪，波莉安娜小姐，”她喘着气说，“那个男人跟你说话了吗？”

‘Why, yes, he always does—now,’ smiled Pollyanna.
“嗯，是的，他总是这样——现在，”波莉安娜微笑着。

‘ ‘He always does’! Goodness! Do you know who—he—is?’ demanded Nancy.
” “他总是这样”！天哪！你知道他是谁吗？”南希问道。

Pollyanna frowned and shook her head.
波莉安娜皱起眉头，摇了摇头。

‘I reckon he forgot to tell me one day. You see, I did my part of the introducing, but he didn’t.’
“我想他有一天忘记告诉我了。你看，我做了我的介绍，但他没有。

Nancy’s eyes widened.
南希睁大了眼睛。

‘But he never speaks ter anybody, child—he hain’t for years, I guess, except when he just has to, for business, and all that. He’s John Pendleton. He lives all by himself in the big house on Pendleton Hill. He won’t even have any one ‘round ter cook for him—comes down ter the hotel for his meals three times a day. I know Sally Miner, who waits on him, and she says he hardly opens his head enough ter tell what he wants ter eat. She has ter guess it more’n half the time—only it’ll be somethin’ CHEAP! She knows that without no tellin’.’
“但他从来不跟任何人说话，孩子——我猜，他已经好几年没有说话了，除非他不得不这么做，比如为了生意等等。他是约翰·彭德尔顿。他独自一人住在彭德尔顿山的大房子里。他甚至没有人为他做饭——一日三餐都到酒店来。我认识莎莉·迈纳，她在侍候他，她说他几乎无法打开自己的头来说出他想吃什么。她有一半的时间都猜到了——只是它会很便宜！她无需告诉就知道这一点。

Pollyanna nodded sympathetically.
波莉安娜同情地点点头。

‘I know. You have to look for cheap things when you’re poor. Father and I took meals out a lot. We had beans and fish balls most generally. We used to say how glad we were we liked beans—that is, we said it specially when we were looking at the roast turkey place, you know, that was sixty cents. Does Mr. Pendleton like beans?’
'我知道。当你穷的时候，你必须寻找便宜的东西。我和父亲经常出去吃饭。我们最常见的是豆子和鱼丸。我们过去常常说我们很高兴我们喜欢豆子——也就是说，我们在看烤火鸡店的时候特别这么说，你知道，那是六十美分。彭德尔顿先生喜欢豆子吗？

‘Like ‘em! What if he does—or don’t? Why, Miss Pollyanna, he ain’t poor. He’s got loads of money, John Pendleton has—from his father. There ain’t nobody in town as rich as he is. He could eat dollar bills, if he wanted to—and not know it.’
‘像他们一样！如果他这样做或不这样做怎么办？哎呀，波莉安娜小姐，他并不穷。约翰·彭德尔顿（John Pendleton）从他父亲那里得到了很多钱。镇上没有人像他一样富有。如果他愿意的话，他可以吃一美元钞票——而且他自己并不知道。”

Pollyanna giggled.
波莉安娜咯咯地笑起来。

‘As if anybody COULD eat dollar bills and not know it, Nancy, when they come to try to chew ‘em!’
“南希，好像有人可以吃一美元钞票，但他们不知道，当他们来尝试咀嚼它们时！”

‘Ho! I mean he’s rich enough ter do it,’ shrugged Nancy. ‘He ain’t spendin’ his money, that’s all. He’s a-savin’ of it.’
‘嗬！我的意思是他足够富有，可以这么做。”南希耸耸肩。 ‘他没有花’他的钱，仅此而已。他正在拯救它。

‘Oh, for the heathen,’ surmised Pollyanna. ‘How perfectly splendid! That’s denying yourself and taking up your cross. I know; father told me.’
“哦，对于异教徒来说，”波莉安娜猜测道。 ‘多么完美的辉煌啊！这就是舍己并背起你的十字架。我知道;父亲告诉我的。

Nancy’s lips parted abruptly, as if there were angry words all ready to come; but her eyes, resting on Pollyanna’s jubilantly trustful face, saw something that prevented the words being spoken.
南希的嘴唇猛地张开，仿佛即将要说出愤怒的话语。但她的目光落在波​​莉安娜那张欣喜若狂、充满信任的脸上，却看到了某种阻碍说出口的话。

‘Humph!’ she vouchsafed. Then, showing her old-time interest, she went on: ‘But, say, it is queer, his speakin’ to you, honestly, Miss Pollyanna. He don’t speak ter no one; and he lives all alone in a great big lovely house all full of jest grand things, they say. Some says he’s crazy, and some jest cross; and some says he’s got a skeleton in his closet.’
“哼！”她附和道。然后，她表现出她以前的兴趣，继续说道：“但是，说实话，他对你说话很奇怪，波莉安娜小姐。”他不跟任何人说话；他们说，他独自住在一栋又大又可爱的房子里，里面装满了各种有趣的东西。有人说他疯了，有人开玩笑说他生气；有人说他的衣柜里有一具骷髅。

‘Oh, Nancy!’ shuddered Pollyanna. ‘How can he keep such a dreadful thing? I should think he’d throw it away!’
“哦，南希！”波莉安娜颤抖着。 ‘他怎么能保留这么可怕的东西？我想他会把它扔掉的！

Nancy chuckled. That Pollyanna had taken the skeleton literally instead of figuratively, she knew very well; but, perversely, she refrained from correcting the mistake.
南希咯咯笑起来。她非常清楚，波莉安娜是按照字面上的意思而不是象征意义来理解这具骷髅的。但她却一反常态地没有纠正这个错误。

‘And EVERYBODY says he’s mysterious,’ she went on. ‘Some years he jest travels, week in and week out, and it’s always in heathen countries—Egypt and Asia and the Desert of Sarah, you know.’
“每个人都说他很神秘，”她继续说道。 “有些年他开玩笑地旅行，一周又一周，而且总是在异教国家——埃及、亚洲和萨拉沙漠，你知道。”

‘Oh, a missionary,’ nodded Pollyanna.
“哦，一位传教士，”波莉安娜点点头。

Nancy laughed oddly.
南希奇怪地笑了。

‘Well, I didn’t say that, Miss Pollyanna. When he comes back he writes books—queer, odd books, they say, about some gimcrack he’s found in them heathen countries. But he don’t never seem ter want ter spend no money here—leastways, not for jest livin’.’
“好吧，我没那么说，波莉安娜小姐。当他回来时，他会写书——人们说，这些书很奇怪，是关于他在异教国家发现的一些小玩意儿的。但他似乎从来不想在这里花钱——至少，不是为了开玩笑。

‘Of course not—if he’s saving it for the heathen,’ declared Pollyanna. ‘But he is a funny man, and he’s different, too, just like Mrs. Snow, only he’s a different different.’
“当然不会——如果他是把它留给异教徒的话，”波莉安娜宣称。 “但他是一个有趣的人，而且他也与众不同，就像斯诺夫人一样，只是他与众不同。”

‘Well, I guess he is—rather,’ chuckled Nancy.
“嗯，我猜他是——确切地说，”南希咯咯地笑道。

‘I’m gladder’n ever now, anyhow, that he speaks to me,’ sighed Pollyanna contentedly.
“无论如何，我现在比现在更高兴，他能跟我说话。”波莉安娜满意地叹了口气。

CHAPTER X. A SURPRISE FOR MRS. SNOW
第十章 给夫人的惊喜雪

The next time Pollyanna went to see Mrs. Snow, she found that lady, as at first, in a darkened room.
波莉安娜下次去看斯诺夫人时，她发现这位女士和第一次一样在一间黑暗的房间里。

‘It’s the little girl from Miss Polly’s, mother,’ announced Milly, in a tired manner; then Pollyanna found herself alone with the invalid.
“妈妈，这是波莉小姐家的小女孩，”米莉疲惫地说道。然后波莉安娜发现自己和病人单独在一起。

‘Oh, it’s you, is it?’ asked a fretful voice from the bed. ‘I remember you. ANYbody’d remember you, I guess, if they saw you once. I wish you had come yesterday. I WANTED you yesterday.’
“噢，是你，是吗？”床上传来一个焦躁的声音。 '我记得你。我想，如果有人见过你一次，他们就会记得你。我希望你昨天就来了。昨天我想要你。

‘Did you? Well, I’m glad ‘tisn’t any farther away from yesterday than to-day is, then,’ laughed Pollyanna, advancing cheerily into the room, and setting her basket carefully down on a chair. ‘My! but aren’t you dark here, though? I can’t see you a bit,’ she cried, unhesitatingly crossing to the window and pulling up the shade. ‘I want to see if you’ve fixed your hair like I did—oh, you haven’t! But, never mind; I’m glad you haven’t, after all, ‘cause maybe you’ll let me do it—later. But now I want you to see what I’ve brought you.’
'你是否？好吧，我很高兴“那么，距离昨天并不比今天更远，”波莉安娜笑着说，高兴地走进房间，小心地将篮子放在椅子上。 '我的！但你这里不黑吗？我有点看不到你了，”她喊道，毫不犹豫地走到窗前，拉起窗帘。 “我想看看你是否像我一样整理了头发——哦，你没有！”但是不要紧;我很高兴你毕竟没有这么做，因为也许你会让我这么做——稍后。但现在我想让你看看我给你带来了什么。”

The woman stirred restlessly.
女人不安地动了动。

‘Just as if how it looks would make any difference in how it tastes,’ she scoffed—but she turned her eyes toward the basket. ‘Well, what is it?’
“就好像它的外观会影响它的味道一样，”她嘲笑道，但她把目光转向了篮子。 “嗯，那是什么？”

‘Guess! What do you want?’ Pollyanna had skipped back to the basket. Her face was alight. The sick woman frowned.
'猜测！你想要什么？”波莉安娜跳回到篮子里。她的脸容光焕发。生病的女人皱起了眉头。

‘Why, I don’t WANT anything, as I know of,’ she sighed. ‘After all, they all taste alike!’
“哎呀，据我所知，我什么都不想要，”她叹了口气。 “毕竟，它们的味道都一样！”

Pollyanna chuckled.
波莉安娜咯咯笑起来。

‘This won’t. Guess! If you DID want something, what would it be?’
‘这不会。猜测！如果你确实想要某样东西，那会是什么？

The woman hesitated. She did not realize it herself, but she had so long been accustomed to wanting what she did not have, that to state off-hand what she DID want seemed impossible—until she knew what she had. Obviously, however, she must say something. This extraordinary child was waiting.
女人犹豫了。她自己并没有意识到这一点，但她长期以来习惯于想要自己没有的东西，以至于立即说出她真正想要的东西似乎是不可能的——直到她知道自己拥有什么。但显然，她必须说点什么。这个非凡的孩子正在等待。

‘Well, of course, there’s lamb broth—‘
“嗯，当然，还有羊肉汤——”

‘I’ve got it!’ crowed Pollyanna.
“我明白了！”波莉安娜欢呼道。

‘But that’s what I DIDN’T want,’ sighed the sick woman, sure now of what her stomach craved. ‘It was chicken I wanted.’
“但这就是我不想要的，”生病的女人叹了口气，现在她知道她的胃渴望什么了。 “我想要的是鸡肉。”

‘Oh, I’ve got that, too,’ chuckled Pollyanna.
“哦，我也有这个，”波莉安娜笑着说。

The woman turned in amazement.
女人惊讶地转过头来。

‘Both of them?’ she demanded.
“他们两个？”她问道。

‘Yes—and calf’s-foot jelly,’ triumphed Pollyanna. ‘I was just bound you should have what you wanted for once; so Nancy and I fixed it. Oh, of course, there’s only a little of each—but there’s some of all of ‘em! I’m so glad you did want chicken,’ she went on contentedly, as she lifted the three little bowls from her basket. ‘You see, I got to thinking on the way here—what if you should say tripe, or onions, or something like that, that I didn’t have! Wouldn’t it have been a shame—when I’d tried so hard?’ she laughed merrily.
“是的——还有小牛脚果冻，”波莉安娜得意地说。 “我只是注定你应该得到你想要的东西一次;所以南希和我修好了它。哦，当然，每一种都只有一小部分——但也有一些全部！我很高兴你确实想要鸡肉，”她满意地继续说道，同时从篮子里拿起三个小碗。 “你看，我在来这里的路上一直在想——如果你应该说我没有的牛肚、洋葱或类似的东西怎么办！” “我这么努力了，这难道不是一种耻辱吗？”她高兴地笑道。

There was no reply. The sick woman seemed to be trying—mentally to find something she had lost.
没有回复。那个生病的女人似乎在精神上努力寻找她丢失的东西。

‘There! I’m to leave them all,’ announced Pollyanna, as she arranged the three bowls in a row on the table. ‘Like enough it’ll be lamb broth you want to-morrow. How do you do to-day?’ she finished in polite inquiry.
'那里！我要把它们全部留下。”波莉安娜一边宣布，一边把三个碗在桌子上排成一排。 “看来你明天想吃羊肉汤了。”你今天过得怎么样？”她礼貌地询问道。

‘Very poorly, thank you,’ murmured Mrs. Snow, falling back into her usual listless attitude. ‘I lost my nap this morning. Nellie Higgins next door has begun music lessons, and her practising drives me nearly wild. She was at it all the morning—every minute! I’m sure, I don’t know what I shall do!’
“非常糟糕，谢谢你。”斯诺夫人低声说道，又恢复了她一贯的无精打采的态度。 “今天早上我没睡午觉。隔壁的内莉希金斯已经开始上音乐课了，她的练习让我几乎发疯。她整个上午都在忙这件事——每一分钟！我确信，我不知道我该怎么办！

Polly nodded sympathetically.
波莉同情地点点头。

‘I know. It IS awful! Mrs. White had it once—one of my Ladies’ Aiders, you know. She had rheumatic fever, too, at the same time, so she couldn’t thrash ‘round. She said ‘twould have been easier if she could have. Can you?’
'我知道。太糟糕了！怀特夫人曾经得过这种病——你知道，我的一位女助手。她同时还患有风湿热，所以她无法四处乱窜。她说“如果可以的话，事情会更容易一些。”你可以吗？'

‘Can I—what?’
“我可以——什么？”

‘Thrash ‘round—move, you know, so as to change your position when the music gets too hard to stand.’
“打转——移动，你知道，以便在音乐变得难以忍受时改变你的位置。”

Mrs. Snow stared a little.
斯诺夫人微微凝视。

‘Why, of course I can move—anywhere—in bed,’ she rejoined a little irritably.
“为什么，我当然可以在床上移动——任何地方，”她有点烦躁地回答道。

‘Well, you can be glad of that, then, anyhow. can’t you?’ nodded Pollyanna. ‘Mrs. White couldn’t. You can’t thrash when you have rheumatic fever—though you want to something awful, Mrs. White says. She told me afterwards she reckoned she’d have gone raving crazy if it hadn’t been for Mr. White’s sister’s ears—being deaf, so.’
“好吧，无论如何，你可以为此感到高兴。你不能吗？”波莉安娜点点头。 '太太。白不能。怀特夫人说，患风湿热时你不能摔打——尽管你想要做一些可怕的事情。她后来告诉我，如果不是怀特先生姐姐的耳朵——她是聋子，她估计她会发疯。

‘Sister’s—EARS! What do you mean?’
‘姐姐的——耳朵！你是什​​么意思？'

Pollyanna laughed.
波莉安娜笑了。

‘Well, I reckon I didn’t tell it all, and I forgot you didn’t know Mrs. White. You see, Miss White was deaf—awfully deaf; and she came to visit ‘em and to help take care of Mrs. White and the house. Well, they had such an awful time making her understand ANYTHING, that after that, every time the piano commenced to play across the street, Mrs. White felt so glad she COULD hear it, that she didn’t mind so much that she DID hear it, ‘cause she couldn’t help thinking how awful ‘twould be if she was deaf and couldn’t hear anything, like her husband’s sister. You see, she was playing the game, too. I’d told her about it.’
“好吧，我想我没有把这一切都说出来，而且我忘了你不认识怀特夫人。你看，怀特小姐聋了——聋得很厉害；她来看望他们并帮助照顾怀特夫人和房子。好吧，他们度过了一段非常糟糕的时光，让她明白了一切，从那以后，每次街对面钢琴开始演奏时，怀特夫人都感到很高兴她能听到它，她并不那么介意她听到了。听到它，因为她忍不住想，如果她像她丈夫的妹妹一样聋了，什么也听不见，那该多糟糕。你看，她也在玩游戏。我已经告诉她这件事了。

‘The—game?’
'游戏？'

Pollyanna clapped her hands.
波莉安娜拍了拍手。

‘There! I ‘most forgot; but I’ve thought it up, Mrs. Snow—what you can be glad about.’
'那里！我‘最忘记了;但我已经想好了，斯诺夫人——你可以为此感到高兴。”

‘GLAD about! What do you mean?’
‘很高兴！你是什​​么意思？'

‘Why, I told you I would. Don’t you remember? You asked me to tell you something to be glad about—glad, you know, even though you did have to lie here abed all day.’
‘为什么，我告诉过你我会的。你不记得了吗？你让我告诉你一些值得高兴的事情——很高兴，你知道，即使你不得不整天躺在床上。

‘Oh!’ scoffed the woman. ‘THAT? Yes, I remember that; but I didn’t suppose you were in earnest any more than I was.’
“哦！”女人嘲笑道。 '那？是的，我记得；但我没想到你比我更认真。”

‘Oh, yes, I was,’ nodded Pollyanna, triumphantly; ‘and I found it, too. But ‘TWAS hard. It’s all the more fun, though, always, when ‘tis hard. And I will own up, honest to true, that I couldn’t think of anything for a while. Then I got it.’
“哦，是的，我是，”波莉安娜得意地点点头。 ‘我也找到了。但“第三次世界大战很难”。不过，当困难的时候，总是更有趣。我承认，老实说，我有一段时间想不出任何事情。然后我明白了。

‘Did you, really? Well, what is it?’ Mrs. Snow’s voice was sarcastically polite.
'你真的？嗯，这是什么？”斯诺夫人的声音里带着讽刺和礼貌。

Pollyanna drew a long breath.
波莉安娜长长地吸了一口气。

‘I thought—how glad you could be—that other folks weren’t like you—all sick in bed like this, you know,’ she announced impressively. Mrs, Snow stared. Her eyes were angry.
“我想——你会多么高兴——其他人不像你——都像这样躺在床上，你知道，”她令人印象深刻地宣布。斯诺夫人凝视着。她的眼睛充满了愤怒。

‘Well, really!’ she ejaculated then, in not quite an agreeable tone of voice.
“嗯，真的！”她突然说道，语气不太舒服。

‘And now I’ll tell you the game,’ proposed Pollyanna, blithely confident. ‘It’ll be just lovely for you to play—it’ll be so hard. And there’s so much more fun when it is hard! You see, it’s like this.’ And she began to tell of the missionary barrel, the crutches, and the doll that did not come.
“现在我来告诉你这场比赛，”波莉安娜自信满满地提议道。 “对你来说，打球会很开心——但会很难。”当困难的时候，会有更多的乐趣！你看，就像这样。”然后她开始讲述传教士桶、拐杖和没有出现的洋娃娃。

The story was just finished when Milly appeared at the door.
故事刚刚结束，米莉出现在门口。

‘Your aunt is wanting you, Miss Pollyanna,’ she said with dreary listlessness. ‘She telephoned down to the Harlows’ across the way. She says you’re to hurry—that you’ve got some practising to make up before dark.’
“波莉安娜小姐，你的姨妈需要你。”她忧郁无精打采地说。 “她打电话给街对面的哈洛斯夫妇”。她说你要快点——天黑前你要练习补课。”

Pollyanna rose reluctantly.
波莉安娜不情愿地站了起来。

‘All right,’ she sighed. ‘I’ll hurry.’ Suddenly she laughed. ‘I suppose I ought to be glad I’ve got legs to hurry with, hadn’t I, Mrs., Snow?’
“好吧，”她叹了口气。 “我会快点的。”突然她笑了起来。 “我想我应该庆幸我有腿可以赶路，不是吗，斯诺夫人？”

There was no answer. Mrs. Snow’s eyes were closed. But Milly, whose eyes were wide open with surprise, saw that there were tears on the wasted cheeks.
没有人回答。斯诺夫人的眼睛闭着。但惊讶地睁大眼睛的米莉却看到，苍白的脸颊上挂满了泪水。

‘Good-by,’ flung Pollyanna over her shoulder, as she reached the door. ‘I’m awfully sorry about the hair—I wanted to do it. But maybe I can next time!’
“再见，”当波莉安娜走到门口时，她把她甩到肩上。 “我对头发的事感到非常抱歉——我想这么做。但也许下次我可以！”

One by one the July days passed. To Pollyanna, they were happy days, indeed. She often told her aunt, joyously, how very happy they were. Whereupon her aunt would usually reply, wearily:
七月的日子一天天过去了。对于波莉安娜来说，那确实是幸福的日子。她常常高兴地告诉姨妈，他们是多么幸福。于是，她的姨妈通常会疲倦地回答：

‘Very well, Pollyanna. I am gratified, of course, that they are happy; but I trust that they are profitable, as well—otherwise I should have failed signally in my duty.’
“很好，波莉安娜。当然，我很高兴他们幸福；但我相信它们也是有利可图的——否则我就严重失职了。”

Generally Pollyanna would answer this with a hug and a kiss—a proceeding that was still always most disconcerting to Miss Polly; but one day she spoke. It was during the sewing hour.
一般来说，波莉安娜会用拥抱和亲吻来回答——这一过程仍然让波莉小姐感到最不安。但有一天她开口说话了。那是在缝纫时间。

‘Do you mean that it wouldn’t be enough then, Aunt Polly, that they should be just happy days?’ she asked wistfully.
“波莉阿姨，你的意思是说，仅仅过着快乐的日子还不够吗？”她若有所思地问道。

‘That is what I mean, Pollyanna.’
“这就是我的意思，波莉安娜。”

‘They must be pro-fi-ta-ble as well?
“他们也一定是赞成的吧？”

‘Certainly.’
'当然。'

‘What is being pro-fi-ta-ble?
‘什么是亲民？

‘Why, it—it’s just being profitable—having profit, something to show for it, Pollyanna. What an extraordinary child you are!’
‘为什么，它——这只是盈利——有利润，有一些可以展示的东西，波莉安娜。你是一个多么非凡的孩子啊！

‘Then just being glad isn’t pro-fi-ta-ble?’ questioned Pollyanna, a little anxiously.
“那么仅仅感到高兴不就是赞成吗？”波莉安娜有些焦急地问道。

‘Certainly not.’
“当然不是。”

‘O dear! Then you wouldn’t like it, of course. I’m afraid, now, you won’t ever play the game, Aunt Polly.’
‘哦，亲爱的！那你当然不会喜欢它。我担心，现在你再也不会玩这个游戏了，波莉阿姨。”

‘Game? What game?’
'游戏？什么游戏？'

‘Why, that father—‘ Pollyanna clapped her hand to her lips. ‘N-nothing,’ she stammered. Miss Polly frowned.
“哎呀，那个父亲——”波莉安娜用手捂住嘴唇。 “没什么，没什么，”她结结巴巴地说。波莉小姐皱起了眉头。

‘That will do for this morning, Pollyanna,’ she said tersely. And the sewing lesson was over.
“今天早上就这样了，波丽安娜，”她简洁地说。缝纫课结束了。

It was that afternoon that Pollyanna, coming down from her attic room, met her aunt on the stairway.
那天下午，波莉安娜从她的阁楼房间下来，在楼梯上遇见了她的姨妈。

‘Why, Aunt Polly, how perfectly lovely!’ she cried. ‘You were coming up to see me! Come right in. I love company,’ she finished, scampering up the stairs and throwing her door wide open.
“哎呀，波莉姨妈，多么可爱呀！”她喊道。 ‘原来你是来看我的啊！进来吧。我喜欢有人陪伴。”她说完，跑上楼梯，把门敞开。

Now Miss Polly had not been intending to call on her niece. She had been planning to look for a certain white wool shawl in the cedar chest near the east window. But to her unbounded surprise now, she found herself, not in the main attic before the cedar chest, but in Pollyanna’s little room sitting in one of the straight-backed chairs—so many, many times since Pollyanna came, Miss Polly had found herself like this, doing some utterly unexpected, surprising thing, quite unlike the thing she had set out to do!
现在波莉小姐并不打算去拜访她的侄女。她原本打算在东窗附近的杉木箱里寻找一条白色的羊毛披肩。但现在令她无限惊讶的是，她发现自己不是在雪松箱前的主阁楼里，而是在波莉安娜的小房间里，坐在一把直背椅上——自从波莉安娜来之后，波莉小姐发现自己已经有很多次了。就这样，做了一件完全出乎意料、令人惊讶的事情，与她原本打算做的事情截然不同！

‘I love company,’ said Pollyanna, again, flitting about as if she were dispensing the hospitality of a palace; ‘specially since I’ve had this room, all mine, you know. Oh, of course, I had a room, always, but ‘twas a hired room, and hired rooms aren’t half as nice as owned ones, are they? And of course I do own this one, don’t I?’
“我喜欢有人陪伴。”波莉安娜又说道，她轻快地走来走去，仿佛在施行宫殿般的款待。 “特别是自从我有了这个房间之后，整个房间都是我的，你知道。哦，当然，我总是有一个房间，但那是租来的房间，租来的房间还没有自有房间的一半好，不是吗？当然，我确实拥有这个，不是吗？

‘Why, y-yes, Pollyanna,’ murmured Miss Polly, vaguely wondering why she did not get up at once and go to look for that shawl.
“为什么，是——是的，波莉安娜，”波莉小姐低声说道，她隐隐约约地想知道为什么她不立即站起来去找那条围巾。

‘And of course NOW I just love this room, even if it hasn’t got the carpets and curtains and pictures that I’d been want—‘ With a painful blush Pollyanna stopped short. She was plunging into an entirely different sentence when her aunt interrupted her sharply.
“当然，现在我就是喜欢这个房间，即使它没有我想要的地毯、窗帘和图画——”波莉安娜脸红得令人痛苦，突然停了下来。当她正在说一个完全不同的句子时，她的姨妈突然打断了她。

‘What’s that, Pollyanna?’
“那是什么，波莉安娜？”

‘N-nothing, Aunt Polly, truly. I didn’t mean to say it.’
“没什么，波莉姨妈，真的。”我不是故意这么说的。

‘Probably not,’ returned Miss Polly, coldly; ‘but you did say it, so suppose we have the rest of it.’
“可能不会，”波莉小姐冷冷地回答道。 “但你确实说了，所以假设我们有剩下的。”

‘But it wasn’t anything only that I’d been kind of planning on pretty carpets and lace curtains and things, you know,. But, of course—‘
“但这不仅仅是我一直在计划漂亮的地毯和蕾丝窗帘之类的东西，你知道的。”但是当然-'

‘PLANNING on them!’ interrupted Miss Polly, sharply.
“正在计划！”波莉小姐尖锐地打断道。

Pollyanna blushed still more painfully.
波莉安娜脸更红了，更痛苦了。

‘I ought not to have, of course, Aunt Polly,’ she apologized. ‘It was only because I’d always wanted them and hadn’t had them, I suppose. Oh, we’d had two rugs in the barrels, but they were little, you know, and one had ink spots, and the other holes; and there never were only those two pictures; the one fath—I mean the good one we sold, and the bad one that broke. Of course if it hadn’t been for all that I shouldn’t have wanted them, so—pretty things, I mean; and I shouldn’t have got to planning all through the hall that first day how pretty mine would be here, and—and But, truly, Aunt Polly, it wasn’t but just a minute—I mean, a few minutes—before I was being glad that the bureau DIDN’T have a looking-glass, because it didn’t show my freckles; and there couldn’t be a nicer picture than the one out my window there; and you’ve been so good to me, that—‘
“当然，我不应该这么做，波莉姨妈，”她道歉道。 “我想，这只是因为我一直想要它们却一直没有得到。”哦，我们的桶里有两张地毯，但它们很小，你知道，一张有墨迹，另一张有洞；而且从来都不是只有那两张照片；唯一的父亲——我指的是我们卖掉的好父亲和坏掉的坏父亲。当然，如果不是因为这些，我就不应该想要它们，所以——我的意思是，漂亮的东西；第一天我不应该在整个大厅里计划我的这里会多么漂亮，而且——但是，说实话，波莉阿姨，这不只是一分钟——我是说，几分钟——之前我很高兴梳妆台没有镜子，因为它看不到我的雀斑；没有比我窗外的照片更好的了。而且你对我太好了，以至于——”

Miss Polly rose suddenly to her feet. Her face was very red.
波莉小姐突然站了起来。她的脸很红。

‘That will do, Pollyanna,’ she said stiffly.
“那就行了，波莉安娜，”她僵硬地说。

‘You have said quite enough, I’m sure.’ The next minute she had swept down the stairs—and not until she reached the first floor did it suddenly occur to her that she had gone up into the attic to find a white wool shawl in the cedar chest near the east window.
“我确信你说得够多了。” 下一分钟，她就冲下楼梯——直到她到达一楼，她才突然想起自己上阁楼去找一件白色的羊毛。披肩放在东窗附近的雪松箱里。

Less than twenty-four hours later, Miss Polly said to Nancy, crisply:
不到二十四小时后，波莉小姐清脆地对南希说：

‘Nancy, you may move Miss Pollyanna’s things down-stairs this morning to the room directly beneath. I have decided to have my niece sleep there for the present.’
“南希，今天早上你可以把波莉安娜小姐的东西搬到楼下的房间里。我决定让我的侄女暂时睡在那里。

‘Yes, ma’am,’ said Nancy aloud.
“是的，女士，”南希大声说道。

‘O glory!’ said Nancy to herself.
“哦，荣耀！”南希自言自语道。

To Pollyanna, a minute later, she cried joyously:
一分钟后，波莉安娜高兴地喊道：

‘And won’t ye jest be listenin’ ter this, Miss Pollyanna. You’re ter sleep down-stairs in the room straight under this. You are—you are!’
“你难道不想听听这个吗，波莉安娜小姐。”你就睡楼下这个房间正下方的房间吧。你是——你是！

Pollyanna actually grew white.
波莉安娜实际上变白了。

‘You mean—why, Nancy, not really—really and truly?’
“你的意思是——为什么，南希，不是真的——真的吗？”

‘I guess you’ll think it’s really and truly,’ prophesied Nancy, exultingly, nodding her head to Pollyanna over the armful of dresses she had taken from the closet. ‘I’m told ter take down yer things, and I’m goin’ ter take ‘em, too, ‘fore she gets a chance ter change her mind.’
“我想你会认为这是千真万确的，”南希兴奋地预言道，她从衣柜里拿出一抱衣服，向波莉安娜点点头。 “我被告知要拿走你的东西，我也要拿走它们，”在她有机会改变主意之前。

Pollyanna did not stop to hear the end of this sentence. At the imminent risk of being dashed headlong, she was flying down-stairs, two steps at a time.
波莉安娜没有停下来听这句话的结尾。冒着被撞倒的危险，她一步两步飞下楼。

Bang went two doors and a chair before Pollyanna at last reached her goal—Aunt Polly.
砰地穿过两扇门和一把椅子，波莉安娜终于到达了她的目标——波莉阿姨。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly, Aunt Polly, did you mean it, really? Why, that room’s got EVERYTHING—the carpet and curtains and three pictures, besides the one outdoors, too, ‘cause the windows look the same way. Oh, Aunt Polly!’
“哦，波莉阿姨，波莉阿姨，你是认真的吗？哎呀，那个房间什么都有——地毯、窗帘和三张照片，除了室外的那张，因为窗户看起来都是一样的。哦，波莉阿姨！’

‘Very well, Pollyanna. I am gratified that you like the change, of course; but if you think so much of all those things, I trust you will take proper care of them; that’s all. Pollyanna, please pick up that chair; and you have banged two doors in the last half-minute.’ Miss Polly spoke sternly, all the more sternly because, for some inexplicable reason, she felt inclined to cry—and Miss Polly was not used to feeling inclined to cry.
“很好，波莉安娜。当然，我很高兴你喜欢这个改变；但如果你对所有这些事情都这么想，我相信你会妥善处理它们；就这样。波莉安娜，请拿起那把椅子；波莉小姐严厉地说，因为出于某种无法解释的原因，她想哭，而波莉小姐不习惯想哭。

Pollyanna picked up the chair.
波莉安娜拿起椅子。

‘Yes’m; I know I banged ‘em—those doors,’ she admitted cheerfully. ‘You see I’d just found out about the room, and I reckon you’d have banged doors if—‘ Pollyanna stopped short and eyed her aunt with new interest. ‘Aunt Polly, DID you ever bang doors?’
'是的;我知道我撞了那些门，”她高兴地承认。 “你看，我刚刚发现了这个房间，我想如果——”波莉安娜突然停了下来，用新的兴趣看着她的姨妈。 “波莉阿姨，你敲过门吗？”

‘I hope—not, Pollyanna!’ Miss Polly’s voice was properly shocked.
“我希望——不要，波莉安娜！”波莉小姐的声音相当震惊。

‘Why, Aunt Polly, what a shame!’ Pollyanna’s face expressed only concerned sympathy.
“哎呀，波莉阿姨，真是太可惜了！”波莉安娜的脸上只流露出关切的同情。

‘A shame!’ repeated Aunt Polly, too dazed to say more.
“真可惜！”波莉姨妈重复道，她太茫然了，无法再说下去。

‘Why, yes. You see, if you’d felt like banging doors you’d have banged ‘em, of course; and if you didn’t, that must have meant that you weren’t ever glad over anything—or you would have banged ‘em. You couldn’t have helped it. And I’m so sorry you weren’t ever glad over anything!’
'为什么是。你看，如果你想敲门，你当然会敲门；如果你不这样做，那一定意味着你从来没有对任何事情感到高兴——否则你就会打他们。你无能为力。我很抱歉你没有对任何事情感到高兴！

‘PollyANna!’ gasped the lady; but Pollyanna was gone, and only the distant bang of the attic-stairway door answered for her. Pollyanna had gone to help Nancy bring down ‘her things.’
“波莉安娜！”那位女士喘着气说道。但波莉安娜已经走了，只有远处阁楼楼梯门的砰砰声回答了她的声音。波莉安娜去帮助南希收拾“她的东西”。

Miss Polly, in the sitting room, felt vaguely disturbed;—but then, of course she HAD been glad—over some things!
波莉小姐在客厅里，感到隐隐约约的不安；不过话又说回来，她当然很高兴——因为有些事情！

CHAPTER XI. INTRODUCING JIMMY
第十一章。介绍吉米

August came. August brought several surprises and some changes—none of which, however, were really a surprise to Nancy. Nancy, since Pollyanna’s arrival, had come to look for surprises and changes.
八月来了。八月带来了一些惊喜和一些变化——然而，对南希来说，这些都不是真正的惊喜。自从波莉安娜到来后，南希就来寻找惊喜和变化。

First there was the kitten.
首先是小猫。

Pollyanna found the kitten mewing pitifully some distance down the road. When systematic questioning of the neighbors failed to find any one who claimed it, Pollyanna brought it home at once, as a matter of course.
波莉安娜在路远处发现那只小猫可怜兮兮地喵喵叫。当对邻居的系统询问未能找到任何人声称拥有它时，波莉安娜理所当然地立即将它带回家。

‘And I was glad I didn’t find any one who owned it, too,’ she told her aunt in happy confidence; ‘ ‘cause I wanted to bring it home all the time. I love kitties. I knew you’d be glad to let it live here.’
“我很高兴我没有找到任何人也拥有它，”她愉快而自信地告诉她的姨妈。 ’因为我一直想把它带回家。我喜欢小猫。我知道你会很高兴让它住在这里。

Miss Polly looked at the forlorn little gray bunch of neglected misery in Pollyanna’s arms, and shivered: Miss Polly did not care for cats—not even pretty, healthy, clean ones.
波莉小姐看着波莉安娜怀里那群被忽视的、被遗弃的、可怜兮兮的灰色小家伙，不禁打了个寒颤：波莉小姐不喜欢猫——甚至不喜欢漂亮、健康、干净的猫。

‘Ugh! Pollyanna! What a dirty little beast! And it’s sick, I’m sure, and all mangy and fleay.’
'啊！盲目乐观！多么肮脏的小畜生啊！我敢肯定，它很病态，浑身都是疥疮和皮赘。”

‘I know it, poor little thing,’ crooned Pollyanna, tenderly, looking into the little creature’s frightened eyes. ‘And it’s all trembly, too, it’s so scared. You see it doesn’t know, yet, that we’re going to keep it, of course.’
“我知道，可怜的小东西，”波莉安娜温柔地低声说道，看着这个小生物惊恐的眼睛。 ‘而且它也浑身颤抖，太害怕了。当然，你看它还不知道我们会保留它。

‘No—nor anybody else,’ retorted Miss Polly, with meaning emphasis.
“不——也没有其他人，”波莉小姐反驳道，语气中充满了强调。

‘Oh, yes, they do,’ nodded Pollyanna, entirely misunderstanding her aunt’s words. ‘I told everybody we should keep it, if I didn’t find where it belonged. I knew you’d be glad to have it—poor little lonesome thing!’
“哦，是的，他们确实如此。”波莉安娜点点头，完全误解了姨妈的话。 “我告诉大家，如果我没有找到它所属的地方，我们就应该保留它。我知道你会很高兴拥有它——可怜的孤独小东西！

Miss Polly opened her lips and tried to speak; but in vain. The curious helpless feeling that had been hers so often since Pollyanna’s arrival, had her now fast in its grip.
波莉小姐张开嘴唇，想说话；但她没有开口。但徒劳。自从波莉安娜到来以来，她经常有一种奇怪的无助感，现在却牢牢地控制住了她。

‘Of course I knew,’ hurried on Pollyanna, gratefully, ‘that you wouldn’t let a dear little lonesome kitty go hunting for a home when you’d just taken ME in; and I said so to Mrs. Ford when she asked if you’d let me keep it. Why, I had the Ladies’ Aid, you know, and kitty didn’t have anybody. I knew you’d feel that way,’ she nodded happily, as she ran from the room.
“我当然知道，”波莉安娜感激地急忙说道，“当你刚刚收留我的时候，你不会让一只可爱的小孤独小猫去寻找一个家;当福特夫人问你是否愿意让我保留它时，我就这么说了。哎呀，我有“女士援助”，你知道，而基蒂却没有任何人。我知道你会有这种感觉。”她高兴地点点头，跑出了房间。

‘But, Pollyanna, Pollyanna,’ remonstrated Miss Polly. ‘I don’t—‘ But Pollyanna was already halfway to the kitchen, calling:
“但是，波莉安娜，波莉安娜，”波莉小姐抗议道。 “我不——”但波莉安娜已经走到厨房的一半了，喊道：

‘Nancy, Nancy, just see this dear little kitty that Aunt Polly is going to bring up along with me!’ And Aunt Polly, in the sitting room—who abhorred cats—fell back in her chair with a gasp of dismay, powerless to remonstrate.
“南希，南希，看看这只可爱的小猫，波莉姨妈要和我一起带大了！”客厅里的波莉姨妈——她讨厌猫——沮丧地倒在椅子上，气喘吁吁，无能为力。抗议。

The next day it was a dog, even dirtier and more forlorn, perhaps, than was the kitten; and again Miss Polly, to her dumfounded amazement, found herself figuring as a kind protector and an angel of mercy—a role that Pollyanna so unhesitatingly thrust upon her as a matter of course, that the woman—who abhorred dogs even more than she did cats, if possible—found herself as before, powerless to remonstrate.
第二天，它变成了一只狗，也许比那只小猫更肮脏、更孤独。波莉小姐再次惊讶地发现自己被描绘成一个善良的保护者和仁慈的天使——波莉安娜毫不犹豫地把这个角色强加给她，理所当然，那个女人比她更讨厌狗。猫，如果可能的话——发现自己和以前一样，无力抗议。

When, in less than a week, however, Pollyanna brought home a small, ragged boy, and confidently claimed the same protection for him, Miss Polly did have something to say. It happened after this wise.
然而，在不到一周的时间里，波莉安娜带了一个衣衫褴褛的小男孩回家，并自信地声称对他有同样的保护，波莉小姐确实有话要说。事情发生在这之后。

On a pleasant Thursday morning Pollyanna had been taking calf’s-foot jelly again to Mrs. Snow. Mrs. Snow and Pollyanna were the best of friends now. Their friendship had started from the third visit Pollyanna had made, the one after she had told Mrs. Snow of the game. Mrs. Snow herself was playing the game now, with Pollyanna. To be sure, she was not playing it very well—she had been sorry for everything for so long, that it was not easy to be glad for anything now. But under Pollyanna’s cheery instructions and merry laughter at her mistakes, she was learning fast. To-day, even, to Pollyanna’s huge delight, she had said that she was glad Pollyanna brought calf’s-foot jelly, because that was just what she had been wanting—she did not know that Milly, at the front door, had told Pollyanna that the minister’s wife had already that day sent over a great bowlful of that same kind of jelly.
在一个愉快的星期四早晨，波莉安娜再次给斯诺太太送小牛脚果冻。斯诺夫人和波莉安娜现在是最好的朋友了。他们的友谊从波莉安娜第三次来访开始，那是在她告诉斯诺夫人这场游戏之后。斯诺夫人现在正在和波丽安娜一起玩这个游戏。可以肯定的是，她玩得不太好——她为一切事情感到遗憾太久了，现在要为任何事情感到高兴并不容易。但在波莉安娜的愉快指导和对她的错误的欢笑下，她学得很快。甚至今天，令波莉安娜非常高兴的是，她说她很高兴波莉安娜带来了小牛脚果冻，因为这正是她一直想要的——她不知道米莉在前门告诉了波莉安娜那天牧师的妻子已经送来一大碗同样的果冻了。

Pollyanna was thinking of this now when suddenly she saw the boy.
波莉安娜正在想着这个，突然她看到了那个男孩。

The boy was sitting in a disconsolate little heap by the roadside, whittling half-heartedly at a small stick.
男孩闷闷不乐地坐在路边，漫不经心地削着一根小棍子。

‘Hullo,’ smiled Pollyanna, engagingly.
“哈罗，”波莉安娜迷人地微笑着。

The boy glanced up, but he looked away again, at once.
男孩抬起头看了一眼，但立刻又移开了视线。

‘Hullo yourself,’ he mumbled.
“哈喽，”他咕哝道。

Pollyanna laughed.
波莉安娜笑了。

‘Now you don’t look as if you’d be glad even for calf’s-foot jelly,’ she chuckled, stopping before him.
“现在看来，你连小牛脚果冻都不高兴了。”她笑着在他面前停下来。

The boy stirred restlessly, gave her a surprised look, and began to whittle again at his stick, with the dull, broken-bladed knife in his hand.
男孩不安地动了动，惊讶地看了她一眼，然后又开始用手里那把钝了的、断刃的刀削他的棍子。

Pollyanna hesitated, then dropped herself comfortably down on the grass near him. In spite of Pollyanna’s brave assertion that she was ‘used to Ladies’ Aiders,’ and ‘didn’t mind,’ she had sighed at times for some companion of her own age. Hence her determination to make the most of this one.
波莉安娜犹豫了一下，然后舒服地倒在他附近的草地上。尽管波莉安娜勇敢地宣称她“习惯了女士助手”并且“不介意”，但她有时也会为一些同龄的同伴叹息。因此，她决心充分利用这一机会。

‘My name’s Pollyanna Whittier,’ she began pleasantly. ‘What’s yours?’
“我叫波莉安娜·惠蒂尔，”她愉快地说道。 '你的是啥呢？'

Again the boy stirred restlessly. He even almost got to his feet. But he settled back.
男孩又不安地动了起来。他甚至几乎站了起来。但他又安定下来。

‘Jimmy Bean,’ he grunted with ungracious indifference.
“吉米·比恩。”他冷漠无礼地咕哝道。

‘Good! Now we’re introduced. I’m glad you did your part—some folks don’t, you know. I live at Miss Polly Harrington’s house. Where do you live?’
'好的！现在我们就介绍一下。我很高兴你尽了自己的一份力量——你知道，有些人却没有。我住在波莉·哈林顿小姐家。你住在哪里？'

‘Nowhere.’
'无处。'

‘Nowhere! Why, you can’t do that—everybody lives somewhere,’ asserted Pollyanna.
'无处！为什么，你不能这样做——每个人都住在某个地方，”波莉安娜断言。

‘Well, I don’t—just now. I’m huntin’ up a new place.’
“嗯，我不——只是现在。”我正在寻找一个新地方。

‘Oh! Where is it?’
'哦！它在哪里？'

The boy regarded her with scornful eyes.
男孩用轻蔑的眼神看着她。

‘Silly! As if I’d be a-huntin’ for it—if I knew!’
'愚蠢的！就好像我会去寻找它一样——如果我知道的话！

Pollyanna tossed her head a little. This was not a nice boy, and she did not like to be called ‘silly.’ Still, he was somebody besides—old folks. Where did you live—before?’ she queried.
波莉安娜微微摇头。这不是一个好男孩，她也不喜欢被称为“傻瓜”。尽管如此，他还是个别人——老人家。你以前住在哪里？”她问道。

‘Well, if you ain’t the beat’em for askin’ questions!’ sighed the boy impatiently.
“好吧，如果你不是问问题的人的话！”男孩不耐烦地叹了口气。

‘I have to be,’ retorted Pollyanna calmly, ‘else I couldn’t find out a thing about you. If you’d talk more I wouldn’t talk so much.’
“我必须这么做，”波莉安娜平静地反驳道，“否则我就无法找到关于你的任何事情。”如果你能多说点我就不会说那么多了。

The boy gave a short laugh. It was a sheepish laugh, and not quite a willing one; but his face looked a little pleasanter when he spoke this time.
男孩短促地笑了一声。那是一种羞涩的笑声，而且并不完全是自愿的。不过这次说话的时候，他的脸色却显得和蔼了几分。

‘All right then—here goes! I’m Jimmy Bean, and I’m ten years old goin’ on eleven. I come last year ter live at the Orphans’ Home; but they’ve got so many kids there ain’t much room for me, an’ I wa’n’t never wanted, anyhow, I don’t believe. So I’ve quit. I’m goin’ ter live somewheres else—but I hain’t found the place, yet. I’d LIKE a home—jest a common one, ye know, with a mother in it, instead of a Matron. If ye has a home, ye has folks; an’ I hain’t had folks since—dad died. So I’m a-huntin’ now. I’ve tried four houses, but—they didn’t want me—though I said I expected ter work, ‘course. There! Is that all you want ter know?’ The boy’s voice had broken a little over the last two sentences.
“那么好吧——开始吧！我是吉米·比恩，我已经十岁了，马上就要十一点了。我去年来到孤儿院住；但他们有这么多孩子，没有太多空间容纳我，而且我也不是从来不想要，无论如何，我不相信。所以我放弃了。我要去别的地方住——但我还没有找到那个地方。我想要一个家——开玩笑，一个普通的家，你知道，里面有一位母亲，而不是一位护士长。有家就有亲人；自从爸爸去世后，我就没有人了。所以我现在正在狩猎。我已经尝试过四所房子，但是——他们不想要我——尽管我说我期待着工作，‘当然。那里！你想知道的就这些吗？”最后两句话男孩的声音有些沙哑。

‘Why, what a shame!’ sympathized Pollyanna. ‘And didn’t there anybody want you? O dear! I know just how you feel, because after—after my father died, too, there wasn’t anybody but the Ladies’ Aid for me, until Aunt Polly said she’d take—‘ Pollyanna stopped abruptly. The dawning of a wonderful idea began to show in her face.
“哎呀，真可惜！”波莉安娜同情道。 ‘没有人想要你吗？哦亲爱的！我知道你的感受，因为在我父亲也去世后，除了妇女援助组织之外没有任何人帮助我，直到波莉阿姨说她会接受——”波莉安娜突然停了下来。她的脸上开始浮现出一个奇妙的想法。

‘Oh, I know just the place for you,’ she cried. ‘Aunt Polly’ll take you—I know she will! Didn’t she take me? And didn’t she take Fluffy and Buffy, when they didn’t have any one to love them, or any place to go?—and they’re only cats and dogs. Oh, come, I know Aunt Polly’ll take you! You don’t know how good and kind she is!
“哦，我知道适合你的地方，”她喊道。 “波莉阿姨会带你去的——我知道她会的！”她没有带我吗？当毛毛和巴菲没有人爱，也没有地方可去时，她不是带走了它们吗？——而且它们只是猫和狗。哦，来吧，我知道波莉阿姨会带你去的！你不知道她有多善良！

Jimmy Bean’s thin little face brightened.
吉米·比恩瘦削的小脸亮了起来。

‘Honest Injun? Would she, now? I’d work, ye know, an’ I’m real strong!’ He bared a small, bony arm.
‘诚实的印第安人？现在她愿意吗？我会工作，你知道，而且“我真的很坚强！”他露出了一只瘦骨嶙峋的小手臂。

‘Of course she would! Why, my Aunt Polly is the nicest lady in the world—now that my mama has gone to be a Heaven angel. And there’s rooms—heaps of ‘em,’ she continued, springing to her feet, and tugging at his arm. ‘It’s an awful big house. Maybe, though,’ she added a little anxiously, as they hurried on, ‘maybe you’ll have to sleep in the attic room. I did, at first. But there’s screens there now, so ‘twon’t be so hot, and the flies can’t get in, either, to bring in the germ-things on their feet. Did you know about that? It’s perfectly lovely! Maybe she’ll let you read the book if you’re good—I mean, if you’re bad. And you’ve got freckles, too,’—with a critical glance—‘so you’ll be glad there isn’t any looking-glass; and the outdoor picture is nicer than any wall-one could be, so you won’t mind sleeping in that room at all, I’m sure,’ panted Pollyanna, finding suddenly that she needed the rest of her breath for purposes other than talking.
‘她当然愿意！哎呀，我的波莉阿姨是世界上最好的女士——现在我的妈妈已经成为天堂天使了。还有房间——成堆的房间，”她继续说道，跳了起来，拉着他的手臂。 ‘这是一座可怕的大房子。不过，也许，”当他们匆忙前行时，她有点焦急地补充道，“也许你们得睡在阁楼房间里。一开始我也这么做了。但现在有了纱窗，所以“不会那么热了，苍蝇也无法进入，将脚上的细菌带进来。”你知道吗？真是太可爱了！如果你表现好的话——我是说，如果你表现不好的话，她也许会让你读这本书。而且你也有雀斑，”——带着批判的目光——“所以你会很高兴没有镜子；户外的照片比任何墙上的照片都好，所以我敢肯定，你根本不介意睡在那个房间里，”波莉安娜气喘吁吁地说道，突然发现她需要休息的目的不是为了其他目的。说。

‘Gorry!’ exclaimed Jimmy Bean tersely and uncomprehendingly, but admiringly. Then he added: ‘I shouldn’t think anybody who could talk like that, runnin’, would need ter ask no questions ter fill up time with!’
“天啊！”吉米·比恩简短地、不解地、但又充满钦佩地喊道。然后他补充道：“我不认为任何能像跑步一样说话的人，都不需要问任何问题来打发时间！”

Pollyanna laughed.
波莉安娜笑了。

‘Well, anyhow, you can be glad of that,’ she retorted; ‘for when I’m talking, YOU don’t have to!’
“好吧，无论如何，你可以为此感到高兴，”她反驳道。 “因为当我说话时，你不必这么做！”

When the house was reached, Pollyanna unhesitatingly piloted her companion straight into the presence of her amazed aunt.
当到达房子时，波莉安娜毫不犹豫地领着她的同伴直接来到了她惊讶的姨妈面前。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly,’ she triumphed. ‘just look a-here! I’ve got something ever so much nicer, even, than Fluffy and Buffy for you to bring up. It’s a real live boy. He won’t mind a bit sleeping in the attic, at first, you know, and he says he’ll work; but I shall need him the most of the time to play with, I reckon.’
“哦，波莉阿姨，”她胜利了。 ‘看这里！我有一些比蓬松和巴菲更好的东西要你提出来。这真是一个活生生的男孩。一开始他不介意睡在阁楼上，你知道，他说他会工作；但他不会介意。但我想我大部分时间都需要他陪我一起玩。

Miss Polly grew white, then very red. She did not quite understand; but she thought she understood enough.
波莉小姐的脸色变白了，然后又红了。她不太明白；但她认为她已经足够理解了。

‘Pollyanna, what does this mean? Who is this dirty little boy? Where did you find him?’ she demanded sharply.
‘波莉安娜，这是什么意思？这个肮脏的小男孩是谁？你在哪里找到他的？”她尖锐地问道。

The ‘dirty little boy’ fell back a step and looked toward the door. Pollyanna laughed merrily.
‘脏小子’后退了一步，看向门口。波莉安娜开心地笑了。

‘There, if I didn’t forget to tell you his name! I’m as bad as the Man. And he is dirty, too, isn’t he?—I mean, the boy is—just like Fluffy and Buffy were when you took them in. But I reckon he’ll improve all right by washing, just as they did, and—Oh, I ‘most forgot again,’ she broke off with a laugh. ‘This is Jimmy Bean, Aunt Polly.’
“好了，如果我没有忘记告诉你他的名字就好了！”我和那个男人一样坏。而且他也很脏，不是吗？——我的意思是，这个男孩是——就像你收养毛毛和巴菲时一样。但我想他会像他们一样，通过清洗而改善，而且——哦，我‘差点又忘了’，她突然笑了起来。 “这是吉米·比恩，波莉阿姨。”

‘Well, what is he doing here?’
“那么，他来这里做什么？”

‘Why, Aunt Polly, I just told you!’ Pollyanna’s eyes were wide with surprise. ‘He’s for you. I brought him home—so he could live here, you know. He wants a home and folks. I told him how good you were to me, and to Fluffy and Buffy, and that I knew you would be to him, because of course he’s even nicer than cats and dogs.’
“为什么，波莉阿姨，我刚刚告诉过你了！”波莉安娜惊讶地睁大了眼睛。 ‘他是为了你。我带他回家——这样他就可以住在这里，你知道。他想要一个家和家人。我告诉他你对我、对毛毛和巴菲有多好，而且我知道你会对他很好，因为当然他比猫和狗还要好。

Miss Polly dropped back in her chair and raised a shaking hand to her throat. The old helplessness was threatening once more to overcome her. With a visible struggle, however, Miss Polly pulled herself suddenly erect.
波莉小姐坐回椅子上，用颤抖的手捂住喉咙。昔日的无助再次威胁着她。然而，经过明显的挣扎，波莉小姐突然站了起来。

‘That will do, Pollyanna. This is a little the most absurd thing you’ve done yet. As if tramp cats and mangy dogs weren’t bad enough but you must needs bring home ragged little beggars from the street, who—‘
“那就行了，波丽安娜。”这是你做过的最荒唐的事情了。好像流浪猫和癞皮狗还不够糟糕，你还得把街上那些衣衫褴褛的小乞丐带回家，他们——”

There was a sudden stir from the boy. His eyes flashed and his chin came up. With two strides of his sturdy little legs he confronted Miss Polly fearlessly.
男孩突然动了动。他的眼睛闪闪发亮，下巴抬起来。他迈出两步粗壮的小腿，无所畏惧地迎向波莉小姐。

‘I ain’t a beggar, marm, an’ I don’t want nothin’ o’ you. I was cal’latin’ ter work, of course, fur my board an’ keep. I wouldn’t have come ter your old house, anyhow, if this ‘ere girl hadn’t ‘a’ made me, a-tellin’ me how you was so good an’ kind that you’d be jest dyin’ ter take me in. So, there!’ And he wheeled about and stalked from the room with a dignity that would have been absurd had it not been so pitiful.
“我不是乞丐，夫人，我不想要你的任何东西。”当然，我正在工作，为了我的食宿和生活。无论如何，如果不是这个女孩造就了我，她告诉我你是如何如此善良，以至于你会开玩笑地接受，我就不会来到你的老房子。 “好了，好了！”他转身大步走出了房间，如果不是那么可怜的话，他的尊严就显得很荒唐了。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly,’ choked Pollyanna. ‘Why, I thought you’d be GLAD to have him here! I’m sure, I should think you’d be glad—‘
“哦，波莉阿姨，”波莉安娜哽咽道。 ‘哎呀，我以为你会很高兴他在这里！我确信，我想你会很高兴——”

Miss Polly raised her hand with a peremptory gesture of silence. Miss Polly’s nerves had snapped at last. The ‘good and kind’ of the boy’s words were still ringing in her ears, and the old helplessness was almost upon her, she knew. Yet she rallied her forces with the last atom of her will power.
波莉小姐举起了手，做出了一个强制的沉默姿势。波莉小姐的神经终于崩溃了。男孩那句“善良”的话仍然在她耳边回响，她知道，昔日的无助几乎又降临到了她身上。然而她用最后一点意志力聚集了力量。

‘Pollyanna,’ she cried sharply, ‘WILL you stop using that everlasting word ‘glad’! It’s ‘glad’—‘glad’—‘glad’ from morning till night until I think I shall grow wild!’
“盲目乐观，”她尖声喊道，“你能不能别再用‘高兴’这个永恒的词了！”从早到晚都是‘高兴’——‘高兴’——‘高兴’，直到我想我会变得疯狂！”

From sheer amazement Pollyanna’s jaw dropped.
波莉安娜惊得下巴都掉了下来。

‘Why, Aunt Polly,’ she breathed, ‘I should think you’d be glad to have me gl—Oh!’ she broke off, clapping her hand to her lips and hurrying blindly from the room.
“哎呀，波莉阿姨，”她喘着气说，“我想你会很高兴让我来——哦！”她停住了，用手捂住嘴唇，盲目地匆匆离开了房间。

Before the boy had reached the end of the driveway, Pollyanna overtook him.
男孩还没走到车道尽头，波莉安娜就追上了他。

‘Boy! Boy! Jimmy Bean, I want you to know how—how sorry I am,’ she panted, catching him with a detaining hand.
'男生！男生！吉米·比恩，我想让你知道——我是多么抱歉，”她气喘吁吁地用一只手抓住了他。

‘Sorry nothin’! I ain’t blamin’ you,’ retorted the boy, sullenly. ‘But I ain’t no beggar!’ he added, with sudden spirit.
‘没什么抱歉’！我并没有责怪你，”男孩阴沉地反驳道。 “但我不是乞丐！”他突然精神起来，补充道。

‘Of course you aren’t! But you mustn’t blame auntie,’ appealed Pollyanna. ‘Probably I didn’t do the introducing right, anyhow; and I reckon I didn’t tell her much who you were. She is good and kind, really—she’s always been; but I probably didn’t explain it right. I do wish I could find some place for you, though!’
‘你当然不是！但你不能责怪阿姨，”波莉安娜呼吁道。 “无论如何，我可能没有做正确的介绍；我想我并没有告诉她你是谁。她很善良，真的——她一直都是；但我可能没有解释清楚。不过，我真希望能为你找到一个地方！”

The boy shrugged his shoulders and half turned away.
男孩耸了耸肩，半转过身去。

‘Never mind. I guess I can find one myself. I ain’t no beggar, you know.’
'没关系。我想我自己也能找到一个。你知道，我不是乞丐。

Pollyanna was frowning thoughtfully. Of a sudden she turned, her face illumined.
波莉安娜皱着眉头若有所思。突然，她转过身来，脸上闪现出光芒。

‘Say, I’ll tell you what I WILL do! The Ladies’ Aid meets this afternoon. I heard Aunt Polly say so. I’ll lay your case before them. That’s what father always did, when he wanted anything—educating the heathen and new carpets, you know.’
‘说吧，我会告诉你我会做什么！妇女援助会今天下午举行会议。我听到波莉姨妈这么说。我会把你的案子摆在他们面前。当父亲想要任何东西时，他总是这么做——教育异教徒和新地毯，你知道的。

The boy turned fiercely.
男孩猛地转身。

‘Well, I ain’t a heathen or a new carpet. Besides—what is a Ladies’ Aid?’
“好吧，我不是异教徒，也不是新地毯。另外——什么是“女士援助”？

Pollyanna stared in shocked disapproval.
波莉安娜震惊地不满地瞪着眼睛。

‘Why, Jimmy Bean, wherever have you been brought up?—not to know what a Ladies’ Aid is!’
“为什么，吉米·比恩，你是在哪里长大的？——不知道什么是“女士援助”！”

‘Oh, all right—if you ain’t tellin’,’ grunted the boy, turning and beginning to walk away indifferently.
“哦，好吧——如果你不说的话。”男孩咕哝道，转身漠然地走开。

Pollyanna sprang to his side at once.
波莉安娜立刻跳到他身边。

‘It’s—it’s—why, it’s just a lot of ladies that meet and sew and give suppers and raise money and—and talk; that’s what a Ladies’ Aid is. They’re awfully kind—that is, most of mine was, back home. I haven’t seen this one here, but they’re always good, I reckon. I’m going to tell them about you this afternoon.’
“这就是——这就是——为什么，只是有很多女士聚会、缝纫、提供晚餐、筹集资金和——然后交谈；这就是“女士援助”。他们非常友善——也就是说，我的大部分人都非常友善，回到家了。我在这里没见过这个，但我认为它们总是很好。今天下午我要告诉他们关于你的事。

Again the boy turned fiercely.
男孩再次猛烈地转身。

‘Not much you will! Maybe you think I’m goin’ ter stand ‘round an’ hear a whole LOT o’ women call me a beggar, instead of jest ONE! Not much!’
‘你不会的！也许你认为我会站在那里，听到一大堆女人叫我乞丐，而不是开玩笑！不多！'

‘Oh, but you wouldn’t be there,’ argued Pollyanna, quickly. ‘I’d go alone, of course, and tell them.’
“哦，但你不会在那里，”波莉安娜很快辩解道。 “当然，我会一个人去，然后告诉他们。”

‘You would?’
'你会？'

‘Yes; and I’d tell it better this time,’ hurried on Pollyanna, quick to see the signs of relenting in the boy’s face. ‘And there’d be some of ‘em, I know, that would be glad to give you a home.’
'是的;这次我会说得更好。”波莉安娜急忙说道，她很快就看到了男孩脸上软化的迹象。 “我知道，他们中的一些人会很乐意给你一个家。”

‘I’d work—don’t forget ter say that,’ cautioned the boy.
“我会工作——别忘了这么说，”男孩警告道。

‘Of course not,’ promised Pollyanna, happily, sure now that her point was gained. ‘Then I’ll let you know to-morrow.’
“当然不会，”波莉安娜高兴地保证，现在她确信自己的观点得到了证实。 “那我明天就通知你。”

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘By the road—where I found you to-day; near Mrs. Snow’s house.’
‘在路边——我今天找到你的地方；在斯诺夫人家附近。

‘All right. I’ll be there.’ The boy paused before he went on slowly: ‘Maybe I’d better go back, then, for ter-night, ter the Home. You see I hain’t no other place ter stay; and—and I didn’t leave till this mornin’. I slipped out. I didn’t tell ‘em I wasn’t comin’ back, else they’d pretend I couldn’t come—though I’m thinkin’ they won’t do no worryin’ when I don’t show up sometime. They ain’t like FOLKS, ye know. They don’t CARE!’
'好的。我会去的。”男孩停顿了一下，然后慢慢地继续说道：“那么，也许我最好回去，第三晚，回到家。”你看我没有其他地方可以住；而且——直到今天早上我才离开。我溜了出去。我没有告诉他们我不会回来，否则他们会假装我不能来——尽管我想当我有时不出现时他们不会担心。你知道，他们不像老百姓。他们不在乎！

‘I know,’ nodded Pollyanna, with understanding eyes. ‘But I’m sure, when I see you to-morrow, I’ll have just a common home and folks that do care all ready for you. Good-by!’ she called brightly, as she turned back toward the house.
“我知道，”波莉安娜点点头，眼神充满理解。 “但我确信，当我明天见到你时，我将拥有一个共同的家和关心你的人们。再见！”她转身朝房子走去，大声喊道。

In the sitting-room window at that moment, Miss Polly, who had been watching the two children, followed with sombre eyes the boy until a bend of the road hid him from sight. Then she sighed, turned, and walked listlesly up-stairs—and Miss Polly did not usually move listlessly. In her ears still was the boy’s scornful ‘you was so good and kind.’ In her heart was a curious sense of desolation—as of something lost.
这时，客厅的窗户里，一直注视着两个孩子的波莉小姐，眼神阴沉地跟着男孩，直到一个拐弯的路把他挡住了。然后她叹了口气，转身无精打采地走上楼——而波莉小姐通常不会无精打采地走动。耳边还残留着男孩轻蔑的“你真是太好了，太善良了”。她心里有一种奇怪的荒凉感——就像失去了什么。

CHAPTER XII. BEFORE THE LADIES’ AID
第十二章。在妇女援助之前

Dinner, which came at noon in the Harrington homestead, was a silent meal on the day of the Ladies’ Aid meeting. Pollyanna, it is true, tried to talk; but she did not make a success of it, chiefly because four times she was obliged to break off a ‘glad’ in the middle of it, much to her blushing discomfort. The fifth time it happened, Miss Polly moved her head wearily.
妇女援助会议当天，晚餐是中午在哈林顿庄园举行的，是一顿安静的晚餐。波莉安娜，确实，试图说话；但事实却是这样。但她没有成功，主要是因为有四次她不得不在中间中断一个“高兴”，这让她脸红了，很不舒服。第五次发生这种情况时，波莉小姐疲倦地摇摇头。

‘There, there, child, say it, if you want to,’ she sighed. ‘I’m sure I’d rather you did than not if it’s going to make all this fuss.’
“好了，好了，孩子，如果你愿意的话，就说吧，”她叹了口气。 “我确信，如果你这样做会引起这么大的麻烦，我宁愿你这样做，也不愿不这么做。”

Pollyanna’s puckered little face cleared.
波莉安娜皱起的小脸变得清晰起来。

‘Oh, thank you. I’m afraid it would be pretty hard—not to say it. You see I’ve played it so long.’
'哦谢谢。恐怕这会很困难——更不用说。你看我已经玩了这么久了。”

‘You’ve—what?’ demanded Aunt Polly.
“你——什么？”波莉姨妈问道。

‘Played it—the game, you know, that father—‘ Pollyanna stopped with a painful blush at finding herself so soon again on forbidden ground.
“玩过——游戏，你知道，那个父亲——”波莉安娜发现自己这么快又踏入禁地，痛苦地红了脸，停了下来。

Aunt Polly frowned and said nothing. The rest of the meal was a silent one.
波莉阿姨皱着眉头，什么也没说。这顿饭的其余时间都是沉默的。

Pollyanna was not sorry to hear Aunt Polly tell the minister’s wife over the telephone, a little later, that she would not be at the Ladies’ Aid meeting that afternoon, owing to a headache. When Aunt Polly went up-stairs to her room and closed the door, Pollyanna tried to be sorry for the headache; but she could not help feeling glad that her aunt was not to be present that afternoon when she laid the case of Jimmy Bean before the Ladies’ Aid. She could not forget that Aunt Polly had called Jimmy Bean a little beggar; and she did not want Aunt Polly to call him that—before the Ladies’ Aid.
稍后，波莉安娜在电话中告诉牧师的妻子，由于头痛，她不会参加当天下午的妇女援助会议，波莉安娜对此并不感到遗憾。当波莉姨妈上楼回到自己的房间并关上门时，波莉安娜试图为头痛表示歉意；但她并没有这么做。但她不禁感到庆幸，那天下午，当她向妇女援助组织报告吉米·比恩的案件时，她的姨妈不在场。她无法忘记波莉姨妈曾称吉米·比恩为“小乞丐”。她不想让波莉姨妈在妇女救助会之前这么称呼他。

Pollyanna knew that the Ladies’ Aid met at two o’clock in the chapel next the church, not quite half a mile from home. She planned her going, therefore, so that she should get there a little before three.
波莉安娜知道妇女援助会于两点钟在教堂旁边的小教堂集合，距离家不到半英里。因此，她计划着要在三点之前到达那里。

‘I want them all to be there,’ she said to herself; ‘else the very one that wasn’t there might be the one who would be wanting to give Jimmy Bean a home; and, of course, two o’clock always means three, really—to Ladies’ Aiders.’
“我希望他们都在那里，”她对自己说； “否则，不在那儿的人可能就是想给吉米·比恩一个家的人；当然，对于女士助手来说，两点总是意味着三点。

Quietly, but with confident courage, Pollyanna ascended the chapel steps, pushed open the door and entered the vestibule. A soft babel of feminine chatter and laughter came from the main room. Hesitating only a brief moment Pollyanna pushed open one of the inner doors.
波莉安娜静静地但带着自信的勇气登上教堂的台阶，推开门进入前厅。主房间里传来一阵轻柔的女性闲聊声和笑声。波莉安娜犹豫了片刻，推开了内门。

The chatter dropped to a surprised hush. Pollyanna advanced a little timidly. Now that the time had come, she felt unwontedly shy. After all, these half-strange, half-familiar faces about her were not her own dear Ladies’ Aid.
谈话声意外地安静了下来。波莉安娜有些胆怯地向前走去。现在到了这个时候，她却感到异常的害羞。毕竟，她周围这些半陌生半熟悉的面孔并不是她自己亲爱的女士们的援助。

‘How do you do, Ladies’ Aiders?’ she faltered politely. ‘I’m Pollyanna Whittier. I—I reckon some of you know me, maybe; anyway, I do YOU—only I don’t know you all together this way.’
“女士们，你们好吗？”她礼貌地结结巴巴地说。 “我是波莉安娜·惠蒂尔。我——我想你们中有些人可能认识我；不管怎样，我了解你——只是我不这样认识你们。

The silence could almost be felt now. Some of the ladies did know this rather extraordinary niece of their fellow-member, and nearly all had heard of her; but not one of them could think of anything to say, just then.
现在几乎可以感觉到寂静。有些女士确实认识她们的同伴的这位非同寻常的侄女，几乎所有人都听说过她。但就在这时，他们谁也想不出该说什么。

‘I—I’ve come to—to lay the case before you,’ stammered Pollyanna, after a moment, unconsciously falling into her father’s familiar phraseology.
“我——我是来——把这件事摆在你面前的。”过了一会儿，波莉安娜结结巴巴地说，不自觉地用了她父亲熟悉的措辞。

There was a slight rustle.
有轻微的沙沙声。

‘Did—did your aunt send you, my dear? asked Mrs. Ford, the minister’s wife.
“是——是你姨妈派你来的吗，亲爱的？部长的妻子福特夫人问道。

Pollyanna colored a little.
波丽安娜的脸色有点红。

‘Oh, no. I came all by myself. You see, I’m used to Ladies’ Aiders. It was Ladies’ Aiders that brought me up—with father.’
'不好了。我是一个人来的。你看，我已经习惯了女士助理。是妇女助手们把我和父亲一起抚养长大的。”

Somebody tittered hysterically, and the minister’s wife frowned.
有人歇斯底里地窃笑，牧师的妻子皱起了眉头。

‘Yes, dear. What is it?’
'是的亲爱的。它是什么？'

‘Well, it—it’s Jimmy Bean,’ sighed Pollyanna. ‘He hasn’t any home except the Orphan one, and they’re full, and don’t want him, anyhow, he thinks; so he wants another. He wants one of the common kind, that has a mother instead of a Matron in it—folks, you know, that’ll care. He’s ten years old going on eleven. I thought some of you might like him—to live with you, you know.’
“嗯，是——这是吉米·比恩，”波莉安娜叹了口气。 “除了孤儿家之外，他没有任何家，而他们已经住满了，无论如何也不需要他，他想；所以他想要另一个。他想要的是普通的那种，里面有一个母亲而不是一个护士长——伙计们，你知道，他们会关心的。他十岁了，马上十一岁了。我想你们中的一些人可能会喜欢他——和你们住在一起，你知道的。

‘Well, did you ever!’ murmured a voice, breaking the dazed pause that followed Pollyanna’s words.
“好吧，你曾经说过吗！”一个声音低声说道，打破了波莉安娜的话后的茫然停顿。

With anxious eyes Pollyanna swept the circle of faces about her.
波莉安娜用焦急的目光扫视着她周围的一圈脸。

‘Oh, I forgot to say; he will work,’ she supplemented eagerly.
‘噢，我忘了说； “他会工作的。”她急切地补充道。

Still there was silence; then, coldly, one or two women began to question her. After a time they all had the story and began to talk among themselves, animatedly, not quite pleasantly.
仍然一片寂静。然后，一两个女人冷冷地开始质问她。过了一会儿，他们都知道了这个故事，并开始互相交谈，气氛热烈，但不太愉快。

Pollyanna listened with growing anxiety. Some of what was said she could not understand. She did gather, after a time, however, that there was no woman there who had a home to give him, though every woman seemed to think that some of the others might take him, as there were several who had no little boys of their own already in their homes. But there was no one who agreed herself to take him. Then she heard the minister’s wife suggest timidly that they, as a society, might perhaps assume his support and education instead of sending quite so much money this year to the little boys in far-away India.
波莉安娜听着，心里越来越焦虑。有些话她听不懂。然而，过了一段时间，她确实意识到，那里没有一个女人可以给他一个家，尽管每个女人似乎都认为其他一些人可能会带走他，因为有几个女人没有自己的小男孩。已经在他们家里拥有了。但没有人同意带他去。然后她听到部长的妻子胆怯地建议，作为一个社会，他们也许可以接受他的支持和教育，而不是今年向遥远的印度的小男孩寄那么多钱。

A great many ladies talked then, and several of them talked all at once, and even more loudly and more unpleasantly than before. It seemed that their society was famous for its offering to Hindu missions, and several said they should die of mortification if it should be less this year. Some of what was said at this time Pollyanna again thought she could not have understood, too, for it sounded almost as if they did not care at all what the money DID, so long as the sum opposite the name of their society in a certain ‘report’ ‘headed the list’—and of course that could not be what they meant at all! But it was all very confusing, and not quite pleasant, so that Pollyanna was glad, indeed, when at last she found herself outside in the hushed, sweet air—only she was very sorry, too: for she knew it was not going to be easy, or anything but sad, to tell Jimmy Bean to-morrow that the Ladies’ Aid had decided that they would rather send all their money to bring up the little India boys than to save out enough to bring up one little boy in their own town, for which they would not get ‘a bit of credit in the report,’ according to the tall lady who wore spectacles.
当时有很多女士在说话，其中有几个人同时说话，而且比以前更大声、更难听。他们的社团似乎因向印度教传教活动提供服务而闻名，有几个人说，如果今年的活动少一些，他们就应该羞愧而死。波莉安娜此时再次认为自己也无法理解其中的一些内容，因为听起来他们似乎根本不在乎这些钱的用途，只要这笔钱与他们所在社团的名称相对应即可。 “报告”“名列榜首”——当然这根本不是他们的意思！但这一切都非常令人困惑，而且不太令人愉快，所以波莉安娜很高兴，事实上，当她终于发现自己在外面安静、甜蜜的空气中时——只是她也很抱歉：因为她知道这不会发生。明天告诉吉米·比恩，妇女援助会决定，他们宁愿把所有的钱都用来抚养印度小男孩，也不愿存足够的钱来抚养一个小男孩，这是一件很容易的事，或者说一点也不悲伤。据那位戴眼镜的高个子女士说，他们不会在自己的小镇上得到“报告中的一点荣誉”。

‘Not but that it’s good, of course, to send money to the heathen, and I shouldn’t want ‘em not to send SOME there,’ sighed Pollyanna to herself, as she trudged sorrowfully along. ‘But they acted as if little boys HERE weren’t any account—only little boys ‘way off. I should THINK, though, they’d rather see Jimmy Bean grow—than just a report!
“不是，当然，向异教徒寄钱是件好事，而且我不希望他们不寄一些钱去那里，”波莉安娜一边悲伤地艰难前行，一边自言自语道。 “但他们的表现就好像这里的小男孩没有任何意义——只有小男孩‘很遥远’。”不过，我应该认为，他们宁愿看到吉米·比恩成长，而不仅仅是一份报告！

CHAPTER XIII. IN PENDLETON WOODS
第十三章。在彭德尔顿伍兹

Pollyanna had not turned her steps toward home, when she left the chapel. She had turned them, instead, toward Pendleton Hill. It had been a hard day, for all it had been a ‘vacation one’ (as she termed the infrequent days when there was no sewing or cooking lesson), and Pollyanna was sure that nothing would do her quite so much good as a walk through the green quiet of Pendleton Woods. Up Pendleton Hill, therefore, she climbed steadily, in spite of the warm sun on her back.
波莉安娜离开教堂时还没有转身回家。相反，她把他们转向彭德尔顿山。这真是艰难的一天，尽管这是一个“假期”（她称之为罕见的没有缝纫或烹饪课的日子），波莉安娜确信没有什么比散步更适合她了穿过彭德尔顿森林的绿色宁静。因此，尽管背上有温暖的阳光，她仍然稳步攀登彭德尔顿山。

‘I don’t have to get home till half-past five, anyway,’ she was telling herself; ‘and it’ll be so much nicer to go around by the way of the woods, even if I do have to climb to get there.’
“无论如何，我不必在五点半之前回家，”她告诉自己。 “即使我必须爬才能到达那里，但绕道树林走一圈会好得多。”

It was very beautiful in the Pendleton Woods, as Pollyanna knew by experience. But to-day it seemed even more delightful than ever, notwithstanding her disappointment over what she must tell Jimmy Bean to-morrow.
波莉安娜凭经验知道，彭德尔顿森林非常美丽。但今天似乎比以往任何时候都更令人愉快，尽管她对明天必须告诉吉米·比恩的事情感到失望。

‘I wish they were up here—all those ladies who talked so loud,’ sighed Pollyanna to herself, raising her eyes to the patches of vivid blue between the sunlit green of the tree-tops. ‘Anyhow, if they were up here, I just reckon they’d change and take Jimmy Bean for their little boy, all right,’ she finished, secure in her conviction, but unable to give a reason for it, even to herself.
“我希望她们都在这里——所有那些说话那么大声的女士们，”波莉安娜自言自语道，抬起眼睛看着阳光照射下的绿色树顶之间的一片片鲜艳的蓝色。 “无论如何，如果他们在这里，我只是认为他们会改变并接受吉米·比恩作为他们的小男孩，好吧，”她最后说道，她坚信自己的信念，但无法给出理由，甚至对她自己来说也是如此。

Suddenly Pollyanna lifted her head and listened. A dog had barked some distance ahead. A moment later he came dashing toward her, still barking.
波莉安娜突然抬起头来听。前方不远处有一只狗在狂吠。过了一会儿，他冲向她，仍然狂吠。

‘Hullo, doggie—hullo!’ Pollyanna snapped her fingers at the dog and looked expectantly down the path. She had seen the dog once before, she was sure. He had been then with the Man, Mr. John Pendleton. She was looking now, hoping to see him. For some minutes she watched eagerly, but he did not appear. Then she turned her attention toward the dog.
“哈喽，小狗——哈喽！”波莉安娜对狗打了个响指，满怀期待地看着小路。她确信她以前见过那只狗一次。当时他正和约翰·彭德尔顿先生在一起。她现在正在寻找，希望能见到他。她热切地注视了几分钟，但他没有出现。然后她把注意力转向那只狗。

The dog, as even Pollyanna could see, was acting strangely. He was still barking—giving little short, sharp yelps, as if of alarm. He was running back and forth, too, in the path ahead. Soon they reached a side path, and down this the little dog fairly flew, only to come back at once, whining and barking.
就连波莉安娜也能看出，这只狗的行为很奇怪。他仍在吠叫，发出短促而尖锐的叫声，仿佛在惊慌。他也在前面的路上来回奔跑。很快他们就到了一条小路，小狗沿着这条小路飞得很远，但又一边哀嚎一边吠叫，立刻又回来了。

‘Ho! That isn’t the way home,’ laughed Pollyanna, still keeping to the main path.
‘嗬！那不是回家的路，”波莉安娜笑着说，仍然沿着主路走。

The little dog seemed frantic now. Back and forth, back and forth, between Pollyanna and the side path he vibrated, barking and whining pitifully. Every quiver of his little brown body, and every glance from his beseeching brown eyes were eloquent with appeal—so eloquent that at last Pollyanna understood, turned, and followed him.
小狗现在看起来很疯狂。他在波莉安娜和小路之间来回晃动，可怜兮兮地吠叫着、哀嚎着。他棕色的小身体的每一次颤抖，他恳求的棕色眼睛的每一个眼神都充满了吸引力——如此雄辩，以至于波莉安娜最终明白了，转身跟着他。

Straight ahead, now, the little dog dashed madly; and it was not long before Pollyanna came upon the reason for it all: a man lying motionless at the foot of a steep, overhanging mass of rock a few yards from the side path.
就在这时，小狗疯狂地向前冲去；没过多久，波莉安娜就发现了这一切的原因：一个男人一动不动地躺在离小路几码远的一块陡峭的、悬垂的岩石脚下。

A twig cracked sharply under Pollyanna’s foot, and the man turned his head. With a cry of dismay Pollyanna ran to his side.
一根树枝在波莉安娜的脚下猛然断裂，那人转过头来。波莉安娜惊愕地叫了一声，跑到他身边。

‘Mr. Pendleton! Oh, are you hurt?’
'先生。彭德尔顿！哦，你受伤了吗？

‘Hurt? Oh, no! I’m just taking a siesta in the sunshine,’ snapped the man irritably. ‘See here, how much do you know? What can you do? Have you got any sense?’
'伤害？不好了！我只是在阳光下睡个午觉而已。”男人恼怒地说。 ‘看这里，你知道多少？你能做什么？你有道理吗？

Pollyanna caught her breath with a little gasp, but—as was her habit—she answered the questions literally, one by one.
波莉安娜稍微喘了口气，但是——按照她的习惯——她逐字逐句地回答了问题。

‘Why, Mr. Pendleton, I—I don’t know so very much, and I can’t do a great many things; but most of the Ladies’ Aiders, except Mrs. Rawson, said I had real good sense. I heard ‘em say so one day—they didn’t know I heard, though.’
“为什么，彭德尔顿先生，我——我知道的不多，而且很多事情我也做不了；但除了罗森夫人之外，大多数女士助手都说我很有理智。有一天我听到他们这么说——不过他们不知道我听到了。”

The man smiled grimly.
男人笑容阴沉。

‘There, there, child, I beg your pardon, I’m sure; it’s only this confounded leg of mine. Now listen.’ He paused, and with some difficulty reached his hand into his trousers pocket and brought out a bunch of keys, singling out one between his thumb and forefinger. ‘Straight through the path there, about five minutes’ walk, is my house. This key will admit you to the side door under the porte-cochere. Do you know what a porte-cochere is?’
“好了，好了，孩子，请原谅，我确信；这只是我这条混乱的腿。现在听着。”他停了下来，费力地将手伸进裤兜，掏出一串钥匙，用拇指和食指挑出了一把。 “沿着小路直走，步行大约五分钟，就是我家了。”这把钥匙可以让您进入门廊下方的侧门。你知道什么是门廊吗？

‘Oh, yes, sir. Auntie has one with a sun parlor over it. That’s the roof I slept on—only I didn’t sleep, you know. They found me.’
哦，是的，先生。阿姨有一间，上面有一个日光室。那是我睡过的屋顶——只是我没有睡觉，你知道。他们找到了我。

‘Eh? Oh! Well, when you get into the house, go straight through the vestibule and hall to the door at the end. On the big, flat-topped desk in the middle of the room you’ll find a telephone. Do you know how to use a telephone?’
‘呃？哦！好吧，当你进屋后，直接穿过前厅和大厅到尽头的门。房间中央的大平顶桌子上有一部电话。你知道如何使用电话吗？

‘Oh, yes, sir! Why, once when Aunt Polly—
‘哦，是的，先生！为什么，有一次，波莉姨妈——

‘Never mind Aunt Polly now,’ cut in the man scowlingly, as he tried to move himself a little.
“现在别管波莉姨妈了，”那个男人皱着眉头插嘴，同时试图稍微移动一下自己。

‘Hunt up Dr. Thomas Chilton’s number on the card you’ll find somewhere around there—it ought to be on the hook down at the side, but it probably won’t be. You know a telephone card, I suppose, when you see one!’
“在卡上找到托马斯·奇尔顿医生的电话号码，你会在附近的某个地方找到它——它应该挂在旁边的挂钩上，但它可能不会。我想，当你看到电话卡时，你就知道了！

‘Oh, yes, sir! I just love Aunt Polly’s. There’s such a lot of queer names, and—‘
‘哦，是的，先生！我就是喜欢波莉阿姨的。有很多奇怪的名字，而且——”

‘Tell Dr. Chilton that John Pendleton is at the foot of Little Eagle Ledge in Pendleton Woods with a broken leg, and to come at once with a stretcher and two men. He’ll know what to do besides that. Tell him to come by the path from the house.’
“告诉奇尔顿医生，约翰·彭德尔顿在彭德尔顿伍兹的小鹰壁架脚下，腿骨折了，请立即带着担架和两个人过来。”除此之外他会知道该怎么做。告诉他从房子的小路过来。

‘A broken leg? Oh, Mr. Pendleton, how perfectly awful!’ shuddered Pollyanna. ‘But I’m so glad I came! Can’t I do—‘
‘腿断了？噢，彭德尔顿先生，真是太糟糕了！”波莉安娜颤抖着说道。 ‘但我很高兴我来了！我难道不能——’

‘Yes, you can—but evidently you won’t! WILL you go and do what I ask and stop talking,’ moaned the man, faintly. And, with a little sobbing cry, Pollyanna went.
“是的，你可以——但显然你不会！”你能不能去按照我的要求做，别再说了。”那人微弱地呻吟道。波莉安娜带着一阵抽泣声走了。

Pollyanna did not stop now to look up at the patches of blue between the sunlit tops of the trees. She kept her eyes on the ground to make sure that no twig nor stone tripped her hurrying feet.
波莉安娜现在没有停下来抬头看看阳光照射下的树顶之间的蓝色斑点。她的眼睛一直盯着地面，以确保没有树枝或石头绊倒她匆忙的脚。

It was not long before she came in sight of the house. She had seen it before, though never so near as this. She was almost frightened now at the massiveness of the great pile of gray stone with its pillared verandas and its imposing entrance. Pausing only a moment, however, she sped across the big neglected lawn and around the house to the side door under the porte-cochere. Her fingers, stiff from their tight clutch upon the keys, were anything but skilful in their efforts to turn the bolt in the lock; but at last the heavy, carved door swung slowly back on its hinges.
没过多久，她就看到了那栋房子。她以前见过它，虽然从来没有像这次这么近过。现在，她几乎被那堆巨大的灰色石头、有柱子的阳台和雄伟的入口吓坏了。然而，她只停了一会儿，就飞快地穿过那片被忽视的大草坪，绕过房子，来到了门廊下的侧门。她的手指因紧握钥匙而变得僵硬，在转动锁舌时一点也不熟练。但最后，那扇沉重的雕花门在铰链上慢慢地转了回去。

Pollyanna caught her breath. In spite of her feeling of haste, she paused a moment and looked fearfully through the vestibule to the wide, sombre hall beyond, her thoughts in a whirl. This was John Pendleton’s house; the house of mystery; the house into which no one but its master entered; the house which sheltered, somewhere—a skeleton. Yet she, Pollyanna, was expected to enter alone these fearsome rooms, and telephone the, doctor that the master of the house lay now—
波莉安娜屏住了呼吸。尽管她感觉很匆忙，但她还是停了下来，恐惧地透过前厅望向远处宽敞、阴暗的大厅，她的思绪在旋转。这是约翰·彭德尔顿的房子；神秘之屋；除了主人以外没有人能进入的房子；某处庇护的房子——一具骨架。然而，她，波莉安娜，却被期望独自进入这些可怕的房间，给房子的主人现在躺着的医生打电话——

With a little cry Pollyanna, looking neither to the right nor the left, fairly ran through the hall to the door at the end and opened it.
波莉安娜轻声叫了一声，既不左顾右盼，而是穿过大厅，跑到尽头的门前，打开了门。

The room was large, and sombre with dark woods and hangings like the hall; but through the west window the sun threw a long shaft of gold across the floor, gleamed dully on the tarnished brass andirons in the fireplace, and touched the nickel of the telephone on the great desk in the middle of the room. It was toward this desk that Pollyanna hurriedly tiptoed.
房间很大，阴暗，有深色的木头和像大厅一样的帷幔。但阳光透过西边的窗户，把一条长长的金色投在地板上，在壁炉里失去光泽的黄铜熨斗上发出暗淡的光芒，并触及房间中央大桌子上电话的镍币。波莉安娜急忙蹑手蹑脚地走向这张桌子。

The telephone card was not on its hook; it was on the floor. But Pollyanna found it, and ran her shaking forefinger down through the C’s to ‘Chilton.’ In due time she had Dr. Chilton himself at the other end of the wires, and was tremblingly delivering her message and answering the doctor’s terse, pertinent questions. This done, she hung up the receiver and drew a long breath of relief.
电话卡没有挂断；它在地板上。但波莉安娜找到了，并用她颤抖的食指向下划过字母“Chilton”。在适当的时候，她将奇尔顿医生本人接到了电话线的另一端，她颤抖着传递着她的信息，并回答了医生简洁而中肯的问题。 。做完这些，她挂断了听筒，长长地舒了一口气。

Only a brief glance did Pollyanna give about her; then, with a confused vision in her eyes of crimson draperies, book-lined walls, a littered floor, an untidy desk, innumerable closed doors (any one of which might conceal a skeleton), and everywhere dust, dust, dust, she fled back through the hall to the great carved door, still half open as she had left it.
波莉安娜只瞥了她一眼。然后，她眼中出现了一片混乱的景象：深红色的窗帘、摆满书的墙壁、散落一地的地板、凌乱的桌子、无数紧闭的门（任何一扇门都可能隐藏着骷髅），到处都是灰尘、灰尘、灰尘，她逃走了穿过大厅，来到那扇巨大的雕花门，门仍像她离开时那样半开着。

In what seemed, even to the injured man, an incredibly short time, Pollyanna was back in the woods at the man’s side.
即使对于受伤的男子来说，这也似乎是难以置信的短暂时间，波莉安娜又回到了男子身边的树林里。

‘Well, what is the trouble? Couldn’t you get in?’ he demanded.
‘嗯，有什么麻烦吗？ “你进不去吗？”他问道。

Pollyanna opened wide her eyes.
波莉安娜睁大了眼睛。

‘Why, of course I could! I’m HERE,’ she answered. ‘As if I’d be here if I hadn’t got in! And the doctor will be right up just as soon as possible with the men and things. He said he knew just where you were, so I didn’t stay to show him. I wanted to be with you.’
‘为什么，我当然可以！我在这里，”她回答道。 ‘就好像如果我不进去我就会在这里一样！医生会尽快赶来处理这些人和事。他说他知道你在哪里，所以我没有留下来带他去看。我想和你在一起。

‘Did you?’ smiled the man, grimly. ‘Well, I can’t say I admire your taste. I should think you might find pleasanter companions.’
“是吗？”男人冷酷地笑道。 “好吧，我不能说我欣赏你的品味。我想你可能会找到更愉快的同伴。

‘Do you mean—because you’re so—cross?
‘你的意思是——因为你太——生气了？

‘Thanks for your frankness. Yes.’
‘谢谢你的坦白。是的。'

Pollyanna laughed softly.
波莉安娜轻声笑道。

‘But you’re only cross OUTSIDE—You arn’t cross inside a bit!’
“但你只是在外面生气——你在里面一点也不生气！”

‘Indeed! How do you know that?’ asked the man, trying to change the position of his head without moving the rest of his body.
'的确！你怎么知道的？”男人问道，试图在不移动身体其他部分的情况下改变头部的位置。

‘Oh, lots of ways; there—like that—the way you act with the dog,’ she added, pointing to the long, slender hand that rested on the dog’s sleek head near him. ‘It’s funny how dogs and cats know the insides of folks better than other folks do, isn’t it? Say, I’m going to hold your head,’ she finished abruptly.
‘哦，有很多方法；就在那里——就像那样——你对待狗的方式，”她补充道，指着放在他附近狗光滑的头上的那只修长的手。 “有趣的是，狗和猫比其他人更了解人的内心，不是吗？说吧，我要抱住你的头。”她突然说道。

The man winced several times and groaned once; softly while the change was being made; but in the end he found Pollyanna’s lap a very welcome substitute for the rocky hollow in which his head had lain before.
那人皱起眉头好几次，呻吟了一声。进行更改时要轻柔地进行；但最后他发现波莉安娜的腿是一个非常受欢迎的替代品，可以代替他之前躺过的岩石洼地。

‘Well, that is—better,’ he murmured faintly.
“嗯，这样——更好了，”他微弱地低声说道。

He did not speak again for some time. Pollyanna, watching his face, wondered if he were asleep. She did not think he was. He looked as if his lips were tight shut to keep back moans of pain. Pollyanna herself almost cried aloud as she looked at his great, strong body lying there so helpless. One hand, with fingers tightly clenched, lay outflung, motionless. The other, limply open, lay on the dog’s head. The dog, his wistful, eager eyes on his master’s face, was motionless, too.
一时间他没有再说话。波莉安娜看着他的脸，想知道他是否睡着了。她不认为他是。他看上去好像双唇紧紧闭着，以忍住痛苦的呻吟。波莉安娜看着他那般无助地躺在那儿的巨大而强壮的身体，几乎要哭出声来。一只手紧紧地握着，伸出来，一动不动。另一个软软地张开，放在狗的头上。狗也一动不动，用渴望而热切的目光注视着主人的脸。

Minute by minute the time passed. The sun dropped lower in the west and the shadows grew deeper under the trees. Pollyanna sat so still she hardly seemed to breathe. A bird alighted fearlessly within reach of her hand, and a squirrel whisked his bushy tail on a tree-branch almost under her nose—yet with his bright little eyes all the while on the motionless dog.
时间一分钟一分钟地过去。太阳在西边落得更低，树下的影子更深了。波莉安娜一动不动地坐着，似乎几乎没有呼吸。一只小鸟无所畏惧地落在她手边，一只松鼠在她鼻子下面的树枝上甩动着浓密的尾巴，但他明亮的小眼睛一直盯着那只一动不动的狗。

At last the dog pricked up his cars and whined softly; then he gave a short, sharp bark. The next moment Pollyanna heard voices, and very soon their owners appeared three men carrying a stretcher and various other articles.
最后，狗把车子撑了起来，轻轻地哀鸣着。然后他发出一声短促、尖锐的吠叫。下一刻，波莉安娜听到了声音，很快他们的主人就出现了三个男人，他们抬着担架和各种其他物品。

The tallest of the party—a smooth-shaven, kind-eyed man whom Pollyanna knew by sight as ‘Dr. Chilton’—advanced cheerily.
队伍中个子最高的——一个胡子刮得光溜溜、眼神慈祥的男人，波莉安娜一看就知道他是“博士”。奇尔顿——高高兴兴地向前走去。

‘Well, my little lady, playing nurse?’
“嗯，我的小女士，扮演护士吗？”

‘Oh, no, sir,’ smiled Pollyanna. ‘I’ve only held his head—I haven’t given him a mite of medicine. But I’m glad I was here.’
“哦，不，先生，”波莉安娜微笑道。 “我只是按住了他的头——我没有给他吃一丁点药。但我很高兴我在这里。

‘So am I,’ nodded the doctor, as he turned his absorbed attention to the injured man.
“我也是。”医生点点头，把注意力转向受伤的人。

CHAPTER XIV. JUST A MATTER OF JELLY
第十四章。只是果冻的问题

Pollyanna was a little late for supper on the night of the accident to John Pendleton; but, as it happened, she escaped without reproof.
约翰·彭德尔顿出事当晚，波莉安娜吃晚饭的时间有点晚了。但事实却是，她没有受到任何责备就逃脱了。

Nancy met her at the door.
南希在门口迎接了她。

‘Well, if I ain’t glad ter be settin’ my two eyes on you,’ she sighed in obvious relief. ‘It’s half-past six!’
“好吧，如果我不高兴把我的两只眼睛放在你身上，”她明显松了一口气。 '六点半了！'

‘I know it,’ admitted Pollyanna anxiously; ‘but I’m not to blame—truly I’m not. And I don’t think even Aunt Polly will say I am, either.’
“我知道，”波莉安娜焦急地承认。 “但我不应该受到责备——确实我不应该受到责备。”我想连波莉阿姨也不会说我是。

‘She won’t have the chance,’ retorted Nancy, with huge satisfaction. ‘She’s gone.’
“她不会有机会的。”南希非常满意地反驳道。 '她走了。'

‘Gone!’ gasped Pollyanna. ‘You don’t mean that I’ve driven her away?’ Through Pollyanna’s mind at the moment trooped remorseful memories of the morning with its unwanted boy, cat, and dog, and its unwelcome ‘glad’ and forbidden ‘father that would spring to her forgetful little tongue. Oh, I DIDN’T drive her away?’
“走了！”波莉安娜气喘吁吁地说。 “你不是说我把她赶走了吗？”此刻，波莉安娜的脑海里浮现出早晨的悔恨记忆，其中包括不受欢迎的男孩、猫和狗，以及不受欢迎的“高兴”和被禁止的“即将出现的父亲”。到她健忘的小舌头。哦，我没有赶她走吗？

‘Not much you did,’ scoff ed Nancy. ‘Her cousin died suddenly down to Boston, and she had ter go. She had one o’ them yeller telegram letters after you went away this afternoon, and she won’t be back for three days. Now I guess we’re glad all right. We’ll be keepin’ house tergether, jest you and me, all that time. We will, we will!’
“你没做什么，”南希嘲笑道。 “她的表弟在波士顿突然去世，她不得不离开。你今天下午走后，她收到了一封大喊大叫的电报，三天之内她不会回来。现在我想我们很高兴。我们会一直在一起，开玩笑，你和我。我们会的，我们会的！

Pollyanna looked shocked.
波莉安娜看上去很震惊。

‘Glad! Oh, Nancy, when it’s a funeral?’
'高兴的！哦，南希，什么时候举行葬礼？

‘Oh, but ‘twa’n’t the funeral I was glad for, Miss Pollyanna. It was—‘ Nancy stopped abruptly. A shrewd twinkle came into her eyes. ‘Why, Miss Pollyanna, as if it wa’n’t yerself that was teachin’ me ter play the game,’ she reproached her gravely.
“噢，但我并不高兴参加葬礼，波莉安娜小姐。是——”南希突然停了下来。她眼中闪过精明的光芒。 “哎呀，波莉安娜小姐，好像不是你自己在教我玩这个游戏似的，”她严肃地责备她。

Pollyanna puckered her forehead into a troubled frown.
波莉安娜苦恼地皱起了眉头。

‘I can’t help it, Nancy,’ she argued with a shake of her head. ‘It must be that there are some things that ‘tisn’t right to play the game on—and I’m sure funerals is one of them. There’s nothing in a funeral to be glad about.’
“我没办法，南希，”她摇摇头说道。 “一定是有些事情不适合玩这个游戏——我确信葬礼就是其中之一。”葬礼上没有什么值得高兴的。

Nancy chuckled.
南希咯咯笑起来。

‘We can be glad ‘tain’t our’n,’ she observed demurely. But Pollyanna did not hear. She had begun to tell of the accident; and in a moment Nancy, open-mouthed, was listening.
“我们很高兴‘没有污染我们的’，”她严肃地说。但波莉安娜没有听见。她已经开始讲述那次事故了。不一会儿，南希就张大了嘴，开始听着。

At the appointed place the next afternoon, Pollyanna met Jimmy Bean according to agreement. As was to be expected, of course, Jimmy showed keen disappointment that the Ladies’ Aid preferred a little India boy to himself.
第二天下午，在约定的地点，波莉安娜按照约定会见了吉米·比恩。当然，不出所料，吉米对妇女援助组织更喜欢一个印度小男孩而不是自己感到非常失望。

‘Well, maybe ‘tis natural,’ he sighed. ‘Of course things you don’t know about are always nicer’n things you do, same as the pertater on ‘tother side of the plate is always the biggest. But I wish I looked that way ter somebody ‘way off. Wouldn’t it be jest great, now, if only somebody over in India wanted ME?’
“好吧，也许这很自然，”他叹了口气。 “当然，你不知道的事情总是比你所做的事情更好，就像盘子另一边的作恶者总是最大的一样。”但我希望我对某个遥远的人来说是这样的。现在，如果只有印度有人想要我，那不是很好吗？

Pollyanna clapped her hands.
波莉安娜拍了拍手。

‘Why, of course! That’s the very thing, Jimmy! I’ll write to my Ladies’ Aiders about you. They aren’t over in India; they’re only out West—but that’s awful far away, just the same. I reckon you’d think so if you’d come all the way here as I did!’
‘为什么，当然！就是这样，吉米！我会写信给我的女士助手关于你的事。印度的情况还没有结束；他们只在西部——但那是很远的地方，但还是一样。我想如果你像我一样千里迢迢来到这里，你也会这么想的！

Jimmy’s face brightened.
吉米的脸变得明亮起来。

‘Do you think they would—truly—take me?’ he asked.
“你认为他们真的会带走我吗？”他问道。

‘Of course they would! Don’t they take little boys in India to bring up? Well, they can just play you are the little India boy this time. I reckon you’re far enough away to make a report, all right. You wait. I’ll write ‘em. I’ll write Mrs. White. No, I’ll write Mrs. Jones. Mrs. White has got the most money, but Mrs. Jones gives the most—which is kind of funny, isn’t it?—when you think of it. But I reckon some of the Aiders will take you.’
‘他们当然会！印度人不带小男孩长大吗？好吧，这次他们可以扮演你是印度小男孩。我想你离得够远了，可以去报告了，好吧。你等待。我会写的。我会写信给怀特夫人。不，我会写信给琼斯太太。怀特夫人得到的钱最多，但琼斯夫人给予的最多——这很有趣，不是吗？——当你想到这一点时。但我认为一些助手会带你走。”

‘All right—but don’t furgit ter say I’ll work fur my board an’ keep,’ put in Jimmy. ‘I ain’t no beggar, an’ biz’ness is biz’ness, even with Ladies’ Aiders, I’m thinkin’.’ He hesitated, then added: ‘An’ I s’pose I better stay where I be fur a spell yet—till you hear.’
“好吧——但别忘了说我会为我的董事会工作并保持下去，”吉米插嘴道。 “我不是乞丐，生意就是生意，即使有女士助手，我也在想。”他犹豫了一下，然后补充道：“我想我最好留在原地。”还没有施咒语——直到你听到为止。

‘Of course,’ nodded Pollyanna emphatically. ‘Then I’ll know just where to find you. And they’ll take you—I’m sure you’re far enough away for that. Didn’t Aunt Polly take—Say!’ she broke off, suddenly, ‘DO you suppose I was Aunt Polly’s little girl from India?’
“当然，”波莉安娜用力点头。 ‘然后我就会知道在哪里可以找到你。他们会带你去——我相信你已经足够远了。波莉姨妈不是——喂！”她突然停了下来，“你认为我是波莉姨妈从印度来的小女孩吗？”

‘Well, if you ain’t the queerest kid,’ grinned Jimmy, as he turned away.
“好吧，如果你不是最奇怪的孩子的话，”吉米转身走开时笑着说道。

It was about a week after the accident in Pendleton Woods that Pollyanna said to her aunt one morning:
彭德尔顿伍兹事故发生大约一周后，波莉安娜的一天早上对她的姨妈说：

‘Aunt Polly, please would you mind very much if I took Mrs. Snow’s calf’s-foot jelly this week to some one else? I’m sure Mrs. Snow wouldn’t—this once.’
“波莉阿姨，如果我这周把斯诺夫人的小腿果冻送给别人，你介意吗？”我确信斯诺夫人不会——这一次。

‘Dear me, Pollyanna, what ARE you up to now? sighed her aunt. ‘You ARE the most extraordinary child!’
‘亲爱的我，波莉安娜，你现在在做什么？姨妈叹了口气。 “你是最非凡的孩子！”

Pollyanna frowned a little anxiously.
波莉安娜有些焦急地皱起了眉头。

‘Aunt Polly, please, what is extraordinary? If you’re EXtraordinary you can’t be ORdinary, can you?’
“波莉阿姨，请问，有什么不寻常的事情吗？”如果你是非凡的，你就不可能是平凡的，不是吗？

‘You certainly can not.’
“你当然不能。”

‘Oh, that’s all right, then. I’m glad I’m EXtraordinary,’ sighed Pollyanna, her face clearing. ‘You see, Mrs. White used to say Mrs. Rawson was a very ordinary woman—and she disliked Mrs. Rawson something awful. They were always fight—I mean, father had—that is, I mean, WE had more trouble keeping peace between them than we did between any of the rest of the Aiders,’ corrected Pollyanna, a little breathless from her efforts to steer between the Scylla of her father’s past commands in regard to speaking of church quarrels, and the Charybdis of her aunt’s present commands in regard to speaking of her father.
‘噢，那就这样吧。我很高兴我是非凡的。”波莉安娜叹了口气，她的脸色变得晴朗起来。 “你看，怀特夫人过去常常说罗森夫人是一位非常普通的女人——而且她不喜欢罗森夫人，有些事情很糟糕。他们总是在打架——我的意思是，父亲曾经打架过——也就是说，我的意思是，我们在维持他们之间的和平方面比我们在其他辅助者之间所做的更困难。”波莉安娜纠正道，她因在两者之间的努力而感到有点气喘吁吁。斯库拉（Scylla）是她父亲过去关于谈论教会争吵的命令，而卡律布狄斯（Charybdis）是她姨妈现在关于谈论她父亲的命令。

‘Yes, yes; well, never mind,’ interposed Aunt Polly, a trifle impatiently. ‘You do run on so, Pollyanna, and no matter what we’re talking about you always bring up at those Ladies’ Aiders!’
'是的是的;好吧，没关系，”波莉姨妈有点不耐烦地插话道。 “你确实如此，波丽安娜，无论我们在谈论什么，你总是向那些女士助手提起！”

‘Yes’m,’ smiled Pollyanna, cheerfully, ‘I reckon I do, maybe. But you see they used to bring me up, and—‘
“是的，”波莉安娜高兴地微笑着，“我想我可能会。”但你看他们过去常常抚养我，而且——”

‘That will do, Pollyanna,’ interrupted a cold voice. ‘Now what is it about this jelly?’
“那就行了，波莉安娜，”一个冰冷的声音打断了他。 “现在这个果冻是怎么回事？”

‘Nothing, Aunt Polly, truly, that you would mind, I’m sure. You let me take jelly to HER, so I thought you would to HIM—this once. You see, broken legs aren’t like—like lifelong invalids, so his won’t last forever as Mrs. Snow’s does, and she can have all the rest of the things after just once or twice.’
“波莉姨妈，我确信你不会介意的。”你让我给她带果冻，所以我想你也会给他——这一次。你看，断腿不像——就像终身残疾，所以他的腿不会像斯诺太太那样永远持续下去，而她只需一两次就可以拥有剩下的一切。

‘ ‘Him’? ‘He’? ‘Broken leg’? What are you talking about, Pollyanna?’
' '他'？ '他'？ '断腿'？你在说什么，波莉安娜？

Pollyanna stared; then her face relaxed.
波莉安娜凝视着；然后她的脸放松了。

‘Oh, I forgot. I reckon you didn’t know. You see, it happened while you were gone. It was the very day you went that I found him in the woods, you know; and I had to unlock his house and telephone for the men and the doctor, and hold his head, and everything. And of course then I came away and haven’t seen him since. But when Nancy made the jelly for Mrs. Snow this week I thought how nice it would be if I could take it to him instead of her, just this once. Aunt Polly, may I?’
‘哦，我忘了。我估计你不知道。你看，这件事发生在你不在的时候。你知道，就在你走的那天，我在树林里找到了他；我必须为那些人和医生打开他的房子和电话，并按住他的头，等等。当然，后来我就离开了，从那以后就再也没有见过他。但是当南希这周为斯诺夫人做果冻时，我想如果我能把它送给他而不是她，那该多好，就这一次。波莉阿姨，可以吗？

‘Yes, yes, I suppose so,’ acquiesced Miss Polly, a little wearily. ‘Who did you say he was?’
“是的，是的，我想是的，”波莉小姐有些疲倦地默许。 “你说他是谁？”

‘The Man. I mean, Mr. John Pendleton.’
'男人。我是说，约翰·彭德尔顿先生。

Miss Polly almost sprang from her chair.
波莉小姐差点从椅子上跳起来。

‘JOHN PENDLETON!’
“约翰·彭德尔顿！”

‘Yes. Nancy told me his name. Maybe you know him.’
'是的。南希告诉我他的名字。也许你认识他。

Miss Polly did not answer this. Instead she asked:
波莉小姐没有回答这个问题。相反，她问道：

‘Do YOU know him?
'你认识他吗？

Pollyanna nodded.
波莉安娜点点头。

‘Oh, yes. He always speaks and smiles—now. He’s only cross OUTSIDE, you know. I’ll go and get the jelly. Nancy had it ‘most fixed when I came in,’ finished Pollyanna, already halfway across the room.
'哦是的。他总是说话、微笑——现在是这样。你知道，他只是在外面。我去拿果冻。南希“在我进来的时候就已经把它修好了”，波莉安娜已经穿过房间一半了。

‘Pollyanna, wait! Miss Polly’s voice was suddenly very stern. I’ve changed my mind. I would prefer that Mrs. Snow had that jelly to-day—as usual. That is all. You may go now.’
‘波丽安娜，等等！波莉小姐的声音突然变得严厉起来。我改变了主意。我希望斯诺夫人今天能像往常一样吃到果冻。就这些。你现在可以走了。'

Pollyanna’s face fell.
波莉安娜的脸沉了下来。

‘Oh, but Aunt Polly, HERS will last. She can always be sick and have things, you know; but his is just a broken leg, and legs don’t last—I mean, broken ones. He’s had it a whole week now.’
“哦，但是波莉阿姨，她的生命会持续下去。”你知道，她总是会生病或者有事。但他的腿只是断了，而且腿是活不了了——我是说，断了的腿。他现在已经这样了整整一个星期了。

‘Yes, I remember. I heard Mr. John Pendleton had met with an accident,’ said Miss Polly, a little stiffly; ‘but—I do not care to be sending jelly to John Pendleton, Pollyanna.’
'是的，我记得。 “我听说约翰·彭德尔顿先生出事了。”波莉小姐有点生硬地说。 “但是——我不想给约翰·彭德尔顿寄果冻，盲目乐观。”

‘I know, he is cross—outside,’ admitted Pollyanna, sadly, ‘so I suppose you don’t like him. But I wouldn’t say ‘twas you sent it. I’d say ‘twas me. I like him. I’d be glad to send him jelly.’
“我知道，他在外面很生气，”波莉安娜悲伤地承认，“所以我想你不喜欢他。但我不会说‘是你寄的’。我会说‘是我。我喜欢他。我很乐意送他果冻。”

Miss Polly began to shake her head again. Then, suddenly, she stopped, and asked in a curiously quiet voice:
波莉小姐又开始摇头。然后，她突然停了下来，用一种奇怪的安静声音问道：

‘Does he know who you—are, Pollyanna?’
“他知道你是谁吗，波莉安娜？”

The little girl sighed.
小女孩叹了口气。

‘I reckon not. I told him my name, once, but he never calls me it—never.’
'我认为不会。我曾经告诉过他我的名字，但他从来没有叫过我——从来没有。

‘Does he know where you—live?’
“他知道你——住在哪里吗？”

‘Oh, no. I never told him that.’
'不好了。我从来没有告诉过他。

‘Then he doesn’t know you’re my—niece?’
“那么他不知道你是我的——侄女？”

‘I don’t think so.’
“我不这么认为。”

For a moment there was silence. Miss Polly was looking at Pollyanna with eyes that did not seem to see her at all. The little girl, shifting impatiently from one small foot to the other, sighed audibly. Then Miss Polly roused herself with a start.
一时间寂静无声。波莉小姐看着波莉安娜，眼神似乎根本没有看到她。小女孩不耐烦地从一只小脚换到另一只小脚，发出一声叹息。波莉小姐猛地惊醒过来。

‘Very well, Pollyanna,’ she said at last , still in that queer voice, so unlike her own; ‘you may you may take the jelly to Mr. Pendleton as your own gift. But understand: I do not send it. Be very sure that he does not think I do!’
“很好，波莉安娜，”她最后说道，声音仍然很奇怪，与她自己的声音很不一样。 “你可以把果冻作为你自己的礼物送给彭德尔顿先生。但请理解：我不发送。一定要确保他不认为我这样做！

‘Yes’m—no’m—thank you, Aunt Polly,’ exulted Pollyanna, as she flew through the door.
“是的——不是的——谢谢你，波莉阿姨，”波莉安娜飞进门时兴奋地说。

CHAPTER XV. DR. CHILTON
第十五章。博士。奇尔顿

The great gray pile of masonry looked very different to Pollyanna when she made her second visit to the house of Mr. John Pendleton. Windows were open, an elderly woman was hanging out clothes in the back yard, and the doctor’s gig stood under the porte-cochere.
当波莉安娜第二次拜访约翰·彭德尔顿先生的房子时，那巨大的灰色砖石堆看起来非常不同。窗户开着，一位老妇人正在后院晾衣服，门廊下停着医生的工作台。

As before Pollyanna went to the side door. This time she rang the bell—her fingers were not stiff to-day from a tight clutch on a bunch of keys.
和之前一样，波莉安娜走向侧门。这一次她按响了门铃——今天她的手指并没有因为紧握一串钥匙而僵硬。

A familiar-looking small dog bounded up the steps to greet her, but there was a slight delay before the woman who had been hanging out the clothes opened the door.
一只看上去很熟悉的小狗跳上台阶迎接她，但稍稍耽搁了一会儿，一直在晾衣服的女人才打开门。

‘If you please, I’ve brought some calf’s-foot jelly for Mr. Pendleton,’ smiled Pollyanna.
“如果您愿意的话，我给彭德尔顿先生带来了一些小牛脚果冻，”波莉安娜微笑道。

‘Thank you,’ said the woman, reaching for the bowl in the little girl’s hand. ‘Who shall I say sent it? And it’s calf’s-foot jelly?’
“谢谢你。”女人说着，伸手去拿小女孩手里的碗。 ‘我该说是谁寄来的呢？这是牛脚果冻吗？

The doctor, coming into the hall at that moment, heard the woman’s words and saw the disappointed look on Pollyanna’s face. He stepped quickly forward.
这时医生走进大厅，听到了女人的话，看到了波莉安娜脸上失望的表情。他快步向前走去。

‘Ah! Some calf’s-foot jelly?’ he asked genially. ‘That will be fine! Maybe you’d like to see our patient, eh?’
'啊！ “来点小牛脚果冻吗？”他和蔼地问道。 ‘这样就可以了！也许你想看看我们的病人，嗯？

‘Oh, yes, sir,’ beamed Pollyanna; and the woman, in obedience to a nod from the doctor, led the way down the hall at once, though plainly with vast surprise on her face.
“噢，是的，先生。”波莉安娜微笑着说道。那位女士听从医生的点头，立即带路穿过大厅，尽管她的脸上显然带着巨大的惊讶。

Behind the doctor, a young man (a trained nurse from the nearest city) gave a disturbed exclamation.
在医生身后，一名年轻人（来自最近城市的受过训练的护士）发出不安的感叹。

‘But, Doctor, didn’t Mr. Pendleton give orders not to admit—any one?’
“但是，医生，彭德尔顿先生没有下令不准接纳任何人吗？”

‘Oh, yes,’ nodded the doctor, imperturbably. ‘But I’m giving orders now. I’ll take the risk.’ Then he added whimsically: ‘You don’t know, of course; but that little girl is better than a six-quart bottle of tonic any day. If anything or anybody can take the grouch out of Pendleton this afternoon, she can. That’s why I sent her in.’
“哦，是的，”医生平静地点点头。 “但我现在正在下达命令。我愿意冒这个险。”然后他异想天开地补充道：“你当然不知道；但你知道吗？但那个小女孩任何一天都比一瓶六夸脱的补品好。如果今天下午有什么事或任何人能消除彭德尔顿的不满，她就可以。这就是我送她进来的原因。

‘Who is she?’
'她是谁？'

For one brief moment the doctor hesitated.
医生犹豫了一会儿。

‘She’s the niece of one of our best known residents. Her name is Pollyanna Whittier. I—I don’t happen to enjoy a very extensive personal acquaintance with the little lady as yet; but lots of my patients do—I’m thankful to say!
“她是我们最著名的居民之一的侄女。她的名字叫波莉安娜·惠蒂尔。我——我与这位小女士的个人交情还不是很广泛；但我的很多病人都这样做——我很感激地说！

The nurse smiled.
护士笑了。

‘Indeed! And what are the special ingredients of this wonder-working—tonic of hers?’
'的确！她的这种神奇补品的特殊成分是什么？

The doctor shook his head.
医生摇摇头。

‘I don’t know. As near as I can find out it is an overwhelming, unquenchable gladness for everything that has happened or is going to happen. At any rate, her quaint speeches are constantly being repeated to me, and, as near as I can make out, ‘just being glad’ is the tenor of most of them. All is,’ he added, with another whimsical smile, as he stepped out on to the porch, ‘I wish I could prescribe her—and buy her—as I would a box of pills;—though if there gets to be many of her in the world, you and I might as well go to ribbon-selling and ditch-digging for all the money we’d get out of nursing and doctoring,’ he laughed, picking up the reins and stepping into the gig.
'我不知道。据我所知，对于已经发生或即将发生的一切，这是一种压倒性的、难以抑制的喜悦。无论如何，她不断地向我重复她古怪的演讲，而且据我所知，“只是感到高兴”是大多数演讲的基调。一切都是如此，”当他走到门廊上时，他又带着异想天开的微笑补充道，“我希望我能给她开处方——并给她买——就像我买一盒药一样；——尽管如果有很多如果世界上没有她，你和我还不如去卖丝带和挖沟渠来赚我们从护理和看病中得到的所有钱。”他笑着说，拿起缰绳，踏上马车。

Pollyanna, meanwhile, in accordance with the doctor’s orders, was being escorted to John Pendleton’s rooms.
与此同时，波莉安娜按照医生的指示，被护送到约翰·彭德尔顿的房间。

Her way led through the great library at the end of the hall, and, rapid as was her progress through it, Pollyanna saw at once that great changes had taken place. The book-lined walls and the crimson curtains were the same; but there was no litter on the floor, no untidiness on the desk, and not so much as a grain of dust in sight. The telephone card hung in its proper place, and the brass andirons had been polished. One of the mysterious doors was open, and it was toward this that the maid led the way. A moment later Pollyanna found herself in a sumptuously furnished bedroom while the maid was saying in a frightened voice:
她的路穿过大厅尽头的大图书馆，尽管她穿过图书馆的速度很快，波莉安娜立刻就看到发生了巨大的变化。摆满书籍的墙壁和深红色的窗帘都是一样的；但地板上没有垃圾，桌子上没有杂物，连一粒灰尘都没有。电话卡挂在适当的位置，黄铜熨斗也被擦亮了。其中一扇神秘的门打开了，侍女带路就是朝这扇门走去。过了一会儿，波莉安娜发现自己身处一间布置豪华的卧室里，女仆用惊恐的声音说道：

‘If you please, sir, here—here’s a little girl with some jelly. The doctor said I was to—to bring her in.’
“如果您愿意的话，先生，这里——这里有一个小女孩，手里拿着一些果冻。医生说我要——带她进来。”

The next moment Pollyanna found herself alone with a very cross-looking man lying flat on his back in bed.
下一刻，波莉安娜发现自己独自一人，身边躺着一个面色阴沉的男人，平躺在床上。

‘See here, didn’t I say—‘ began an angry voice. ‘Oh, it’s you!’ it broke off not very graciously, as Pollyanna advanced toward the bed.
“看这里，我不是说过——”一个愤怒的声音说道。 “哦，是你！”当波莉安娜朝床边走去时，这句话不太客气地打断了。

‘Yes, sir,’ smiled Pollyanna. ‘Oh, I’m so glad they let me in! You see, at first the lady ‘most took my jelly, and I was so afraid I wasn’t going to see you at all. Then the doctor came, and he said I might. Wasn’t he lovely to let me see you?’
“是的，先生，”波莉安娜微笑着。 “哦，我很高兴他们让我进去！你看，一开始那位女士“最拿走了我的果冻，我很害怕我根本见不到你”。然后医生来了，他说我可以。他让我见你不是很高兴吗？

In spite of himself the man’s lips twitched into a smile; but all he said was ‘Humph!’
男人的嘴角不由自主地扬起了笑容。但他只说了一声“哼！”

‘And I’ve brought you some jelly,’ resumed Pollyanna; ‘—calf’s-foot. I hope you like it?’ There was a rising inflection in her voice.
“我给你带了一些果冻，”波莉安娜继续说道。 ’——小腿的脚。我希望你喜欢它？”她的声音越来越高。

‘Never ate it.’ The fleeting smile had gone, and the scowl had come back to the man’s face.
“从来没有吃过。” 短暂的微笑消失了，愁眉苦脸又回到了男人的脸上。

For a brief instant Pollyanna’s countenance showed disappointment; but it cleared as she set the bowl of jelly down.
有那么一瞬间，波莉安娜的脸上露出了失望的表情。但当她放下那碗果冻时，一切都变得清晰了。

‘Didn’t you? Well, if you didn’t, then you can’t know you DON’T like it, anyhow, can you? So I reckon I’m glad you haven’t, after all. Now, if you knew—‘
‘不是吗？好吧，如果你没有，那么你就不会知道你不喜欢它，无论如何，可以吗？所以我想我很高兴你没有这么做。现在，如果你知道——”

‘Yes, yes; well, there’s one thing I know all right, and that is that I’m flat on my back right here this minute, and that I’m liable to stay here—till doomsday, I guess.’
'是的是的;好吧，有一件事我知道，那就是我此刻正平躺在这里，而且我可能会留在这里 - 直到世界末日，我猜。

Pollyanna looked shocked.
波莉安娜看上去很震惊。

‘Oh, no! It couldn’t be till doomsday, you know, when the angel Gabriel blows his trumpet, unless it should come quicker than we think it will—oh, of course, I know the Bible says it may come quicker than we think, but I don’t think it will—that is, of course I believe the Bible; but I mean I don’t think it will come as much quicker as it would if it should come now, and—‘
'不好了！直到世界末日，你知道，当天使加百列吹响他的号角时，除非它来得比我们想象的要快——哦，当然，我知道圣经说它可能来得比我们想象的要快，但我我不认为会——也就是说，我当然相信圣经；但我的意思是，我认为它不会像现在那样来得那么快，而且——”

John Pendleton laughed suddenly—and aloud. The nurse, coming in at that moment, heard the laugh, and beat a hurried—but a very silent—retreat. He had the air of a frightened cook who, seeing the danger of a breath of cold air striking a half-done cake, hastily shuts the oven door.
约翰·彭德尔顿突然大笑起来。就在这时，护士进来了，听到了笑声，便匆忙——但非常安静——后退了。他的神态就像一个受惊的厨师，看到一股冷空气吹到半熟的蛋糕上的危险，急忙关上烤箱门。

‘Aren’t you getting a little mixed?’ asked John Pendleton of Pollyanna.
“你不觉得有点混乱吗？”波莉安娜的约翰·彭德尔顿问道。

The little girl laughed.
小女孩笑了。

‘Maybe. But what I mean is, that legs don’t last—broken ones, you know—like lifelong invalids, same as Mrs. Snow has got. So yours won’t last till doomsday at all. I should think you could be glad of that.’
'或许。但我的意思是，那条腿不会像斯诺夫人一样，像终生的病人一样长久——断了的腿，你知道的。所以你的根本撑不到世界末日。我想你会为此感到高兴。

‘Oh, I am,’ retorted the man grimly.
“哦，我是，”那人冷酷地反驳道。

‘And you didn’t break but one. You can be glad ‘twasn’t two.’ Pollyanna was warming to her task.
‘而你只打破了一个。你可以很高兴“不是两个”。波莉安娜对她的任务很感兴趣。

‘Of course! So fortunate,’ sniffed the man, with uplifted eyebrows; ‘looking at it from that standpoint, I suppose I might be glad I wasn’t a centipede and didn’t break fifty!’
'当然！真是太幸运了。”男人扬起眉毛，吸了吸鼻子。 “从这个角度来看，我想我可能会庆幸自己不是蜈蚣，没有突破五十岁！”

Pollyanna chuckled.
波莉安娜咯咯笑起来。

‘Oh, that’s the best yet,’ she crowed. ‘I know what a centipede is; they’ve got lots of legs. And you can be glad—‘
“哦，那是最好的了，”她欢呼道。 ‘我知道什么是蜈蚣；他们有很多腿。你可以很高兴——”

‘Oh, of course,’ interrupted the man, sharply, all the old bitterness coming back to his voice; ‘I can be glad, too, for all the rest, I suppose—the nurse, and the doctor, and that confounded woman in the kitchen!’
“哦，当然，”那人尖锐地打断道，声音里又恢复了往日的苦涩。 “我想，我也可以为其他人感到高兴——护士、医生，还有厨房里那个令人困惑的女人！”

‘Why, yes, sir—only think how bad ‘twould be if you DIDN’T have them!’
“哎呀，是的，先生——想想看，如果你没有它们，那该多糟糕啊！”

‘Well, I—eh?’ he demanded sharply.
“呃，我——呃？”他尖锐地问道。

‘Why, I say, only think how bad it would be if you didn’t have ‘em—and you lying here like this!’
“哎呀，我说，想想看，如果你没有它们，那该有多糟糕——而你却像这样躺在这里！”

‘As if that wasn’t the very thing that was at the bottom of the whole matter,’ retorted the man, testily, ‘because I am lying here like this! And yet you expect me to say I’m glad because of a fool woman who disarranges the whole house and calls it ‘regulating,’ and a man who aids and abets her in it, and calls it ‘nursing,’ to say nothing of the doctor who eggs ‘em both on—and the whole bunch of them, meanwhile, expecting me to pay them for it, and pay them well, too!’
“好像这并不是整件事的根本原因，”那人暴躁地反驳道，“因为我就这样躺在这里！”然而你却指望我说我很高兴，因为有一个愚蠢的女人，她把整个房子打乱，并称之为“调节”，还有一个男人在这方面帮助和怂恿她，并称之为“护理”，更不用说那个怂恿他们俩的医生——还有他们这群人，同时期盼着我付钱给他们，而且还给他们丰厚的报酬！”

Pollyanna frowned sympathetically.
波莉安娜同情地皱起眉头。

‘Yes, I know. THAT part is too bad—about the money—when you’ve been saving it, too, all this time.’
'是的，我知道。这部分太糟糕了——关于钱——因为你也一直在存钱。

‘When—eh?’
“什么时候——呃？”

‘Saving it—buying beans and fish balls, you know. Say, DO you like beans?—or do you like turkey better, only on account of the sixty cents?’
“省点钱——买豆子和鱼丸，你知道的。”比如说，你喜欢豆子吗？还是仅仅因为六十美分，你更喜欢火鸡？

‘Look a-here, child, what are you talking about?’
“看——这里，孩子，你在说什么？”

Pollyanna smiled radiantly.
波莉安娜笑容灿烂。

‘About your money, you know—denying yourself, and saving it for the heathen. You see, I found out about it. Why, Mr. Pendleton, that’s one of the ways I knew you weren’t cross inside. Nancy told me.’
‘关于你的钱，你知道的——舍己，为异教徒存钱。你看，我发现了这件事。彭德尔顿先生，这是我知道你内心没有生气的方式之一。南希告诉我的。

The man’s jaw dropped.
男人的下巴都掉下来了。

‘Nancy told you I was saving money for the—Well, may I inquire who Nancy is?’
“南希告诉你我正在攒钱——那么，我可以问一下南希是谁吗？”

‘Our Nancy. She works for Aunt Polly.’
‘我们的南希。她为波莉阿姨工作。

‘Aunt Polly! Well, who is Aunt Polly?’
“波莉阿姨！那么，波莉阿姨是谁？

‘She’s Miss Polly Harrington. I live with her.’
“她是波莉·哈林顿小姐。我和她住在一起。

The man made a sudden movement.
男人突然做出了动作。

‘Miss—Polly—Harrington!’ he breathed. ‘You live with—HER!’
“小姐——波莉——哈灵顿！”他低声说道。 “你和——她住在一起！”

‘Yes; I’m her niece. She’s taken me to bring up—on account of my mother, you know,’ faltered Pollyanna, in a low voice. ‘She was her sister. And after father—went to be with her and the rest of us in Heaven, there wasn’t any one left for me down here but the Ladies’ Aid; so she took me.’
'是的;我是她的侄女。她带我长大——因为我母亲，你知道，”波莉安娜低声支吾地说。 ‘她是她的妹妹。当父亲去天堂与她和我们其他人在一起之后，除了女士援助组织之外，这里就没有任何人可以留给我了。所以她带了我。

The man did not answer. His face, as he lay back on the pillow now, was very white—so white that Pollyanna was frightened. She rose uncertainly to her feet.
男人没有回答。现在他躺在枕头上，脸色非常苍白——苍白得波莉安娜都害怕了。她不确定地站了起来。

‘I reckon maybe I’d better go now,’ she proposed. ‘I—I hope you’ll like—the jelly.’
“我想也许我最好现在就走，”她提议道。 “我——我希望你会喜欢——果冻。”

The man turned his head suddenly, and opened his eyes. There was a curious longing in their dark depths which even Pollyanna saw, and at which she marvelled.
男人猛地转过头，睁开了眼睛。在他们黑暗的深处有一种奇怪的渴望，就连波莉安娜也看到了，并对此感到惊叹。

‘And so you are—Miss Polly Harrington’s niece,’ he said gently.
“原来你是——波莉·哈林顿小姐的侄女，”他温柔地说。

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

Still the man’s dark eyes lingered on her face, until Pollyanna, feeling vaguely restless, murmured:
男人的黑眸依然在她的脸上停留，直到波莉安娜隐约不安，低声说道：

‘I—I suppose you know—her.’
“我——我想你认识——她。”

John Pendleton’s lips curved in an odd smile.
约翰·彭德尔顿的嘴角扬起一抹奇怪的微笑。

‘Oh, yes; I know her.’ He hesitated, then went on, still with that curious smile. ‘But—you don’t mean—you can’t mean that it was Miss Polly Harrington who sent that jelly—to me?’ he said slowly,
'哦是的;我认识她。”他犹豫了一下，然后继续说道，脸上仍然带着好奇的微笑。 “但是——你的意思是——你不能说是波莉·哈林顿小姐把果冻寄给——给我的？”他慢慢地说，

Pollyanna looked distressed.
波莉安娜看上去很苦恼。

‘N-no, sir: she didn’t. She said I must be very sure not to let you think she did send it. But I—‘
“不——不，先生：她没有。她说我一定不能让你以为是她寄来的。但是我-'

‘I thought as much,’ vouchsafed the man, shortly, turning away his head. And Pollyanna, still more distressed, tiptoed from the room.
“我也是这么想的，”那人简短地保证道，转过头去。波莉安娜更加苦恼，蹑手蹑脚地走出了房间。

Under the porte-cochere she found the doctor waiting in his gig. The nurse stood on the steps.
在停车门廊下，她发现医生正在他的手术室里等着。护士站在台阶上。

‘Well, Miss Pollyanna, may I have the pleasure of seeing you home?’ asked the doctor smilingly. ‘I started to drive on a few minutes ago; then it occurred to me that I’d wait for you.’
“那么，波莉安娜小姐，我可以很高兴送你回家吗？”医生微笑着问道。 “我几分钟前就开始开车了；然后我突然想到我会等你。

‘Thank you, sir. I’m glad you did. I just love to ride,’ beamed Pollyanna, as he reached out his hand to help her in.
'谢谢你，先生。我很高兴你这么做了。我就是喜欢骑车。”波莉安娜微笑着伸出手来扶她上车。

‘Do you?’ smiled the doctor, nodding his head in farewell to the young man on the steps. ‘Well, as near as I can judge, there are a good many things you ‘love’ to do—eh?’ he added, as they drove briskly away.
“你愿意吗？”医生微笑着，向台阶上的年轻人点点头告别。 “好吧，据我判断，有很多事情是你‘喜欢’做的——嗯？”他们轻快地开车离开时，他补充道。

Pollyanna laughed.
波莉安娜笑了。

‘Why, I don’t know. I reckon perhaps there are,’ she admitted. ‘I like to do ‘most everything that’s LIVING. Of course I don’t like the other things very well—sewing, and reading out loud, and all that. But THEY aren’t LIVING.’
‘为什么，我不知道。我想也许有，”她承认。 “我喜欢做‘几乎所有有生命的事情’。当然，我不太喜欢其他事情——缝纫、大声朗读等等。但他们并没有活着。

‘No? What are they, then?
'不？那么它们是什么？

‘Aunt Polly says they’re ‘learning to live,’ sighed Pollyanna, with a rueful smile.
“波莉阿姨说他们正在‘学习生活’，波莉安娜叹了口气，带着遗憾的微笑。

The doctor smiled now—a little queerly.
医生现在笑了——有点奇怪。

‘Does she? Well, I should think she might say—just that.’
'她是否？好吧，我想她可能会说——就这样。

‘Yes,’ responded Pollyanna. ‘But I don’t see it that way at all. I don’t think you have to LEARN how to live. I didn’t, anyhow.’
“是的，”波莉安娜回答道。 “但我根本不这么认为。我认为你不必学习如何生活。无论如何，我没有。

The doctor drew a long sigh.
医生长长地叹了口气。

‘After all, I’m afraid some of us—do have to, little girl,’ he said. Then, for a time he was silent. Pollyanna, stealing a glance at his face, felt vaguely sorry for him. He looked so sad. She wished, uneasily, that she could ‘do something.’ It was this, perhaps, that caused her to say in a timid voice:
“毕竟，我担心我们中的一些人——确实不得不这样做，小女孩，”他说。然后，他沉默了一会儿。波莉安娜偷偷地看了他一眼，隐约为他感到难过。他看起来很悲伤。她不安地希望自己能“做点什么”。也许正是因为如此，她才用胆怯的声音说道：

‘Dr. Chilton, I should think being a doctor would, be the very gladdest kind of a business there was.’
‘博士。奇尔顿，我想当一名医生会是最快乐的职业。

The doctor turned in surprise.
医生惊讶地转过身来。

‘ ‘Gladdest’!—when I see so much suffering always, everywhere I go?’ he cried.
“‘最高兴’！——无论我走到哪里，我总是看到这么多的苦难？”他喊道。

She nodded.
她点点头。

‘I know; but you’re HELPING it—don’t you see?—and of course you’re glad to help it! And so that makes you the gladdest of any of us, all the time.’
'我知道;但你正在帮助它——你明白吗？——当然你很乐意帮助它！所以这让你一直是我们中最高兴的。”

The doctor’s eyes filled with sudden hot tears. The doctor’s life was a singularly lonely one. He had no wife and no home save his two-room office in a boarding house. His profession was very dear to him. Looking now into Pollyanna’s shining eyes, he felt as if a loving hand had been suddenly laid on his head in blessing. He knew, too, that never again would a long day’s work or a long night’s weariness be quite without that new-found exaltation that had come to him through Pollyanna’s eyes.
医生的眼里突然充满了滚烫的泪水。医生的一生是异常孤独的。他没有妻子，也没有家，除了他位于寄宿公寓的两居室办公室。他非常珍视他的职业。现在看着波莉安娜闪亮的眼睛，他感觉好像一只慈爱的手突然放在了他的头上，以示祝福。他也知道，如果没有波莉安娜眼中新发现的兴奋，一整天的工作或一夜的疲倦都将变得不那么平静。

‘God bless you, little girl,’ he said unsteadily. Then, with the bright smile his patients knew and loved so well, he added: ‘And I’m thinking, after all, that it was the doctor, quite as much as his patients, that needed a draft of that tonic!’ All of which puzzled Pollyanna very much—until a chipmunk, running across the road, drove the whole matter from her mind.
“上帝保佑你，小女孩，”他颤抖着说道。然后，带着他的病人所熟悉和喜爱的灿烂笑容，他补充道：“毕竟，我在想，是医生，就像他的病人一样，需要一杯补品！”这让波莉安娜非常困惑——直到一只花栗鼠跑过马路，把整个事情从她的脑海中赶了出去。

The doctor left Pollyanna at her own door, smiled at Nancy, who was sweeping off the front porch, then drove rapidly away.
医生把波莉安娜留在自家门口，对正在清扫前廊的南希微笑，然后迅速开车离开。

‘I’ve had a perfectly beautiful ride with the doctor,’ announced Pollyanna, bounding up the steps. ‘He’s lovely, Nancy!’
“我和医生一起度过了一次非常美好的旅程，”波莉安娜一边跳上台阶，一边宣布道。 “他很可爱，南希！”

‘Is he?’
'是他？'

‘Yes. And I told him I should think his business would be the very gladdest one there was.’
'是的。我告诉他，我认为他的生意将是最令人高兴的一件事。

‘What!—goin’ ter see sick folks—an’ folks what ain’t sick but thinks they is, which is worse? Nancy’s face showed open skepticism.
“什么！——去看病人——和那些没有生病却自以为生病的人，哪个更糟糕？”南希的脸上露出了公开的怀疑态度。

Pollyanna laughed gleefully.
波莉安娜高兴地笑了。

‘Yes. That’s ‘most what he said, too; but there is a way to be glad, even then. Guess!’
'是的。这也是“他说的最多的话；”但即便如此，还是有办法感到高兴的。猜测！'

Nancy frowned in meditation. Nancy was getting so she could play this game of ‘being glad’ quite successfully, she thought. She rather enjoyed studying out Pollyanna’s ‘posers,’ too, as she called some of the little girl’s questions.
南希皱着眉头陷入沉思。南希想，她可以成功地玩这个“高兴”的游戏了。她也很喜欢研究波莉安娜的“装腔作势者”，她把小女孩的一些问题称为“装腔作势者”。

‘Oh, I know,’ she chuckled. ‘It’s just the opposite from what you told Mis’ Snow.’
“哦，我知道，”她笑着说。 “这和你告诉米雪的正好相反。”

‘Opposite?’ repeated Pollyanna, obviously puzzled.
“对面？”波莉安娜重复道，显然很困惑。

‘Yes. You told her she could be glad because other folks wasn’t like her—all sick, you know.’
'是的。你告诉她她会很高兴，因为其他人不像她——都病了，你知道。

‘Yes,’ nodded Pollyanna.
“是的，”波莉安娜点点头。

‘Well, the doctor can be glad because he isn’t like other folks—the sick ones, I mean, what he doctors,’ finished Nancy in triumph.
“嗯，医生会很高兴，因为他不像其他人——我的意思是，他所医治的病人，”南希胜利地结束道。

It was Pollyanna’s turn to frown.
这回轮到波莉安娜皱起眉头了。

‘Why, y-yes,’ she admitted. ‘Of course that IS one way, but it isn’t the way I said; and—someway, I don’t seem to quite like the sound of it. It isn’t exactly as if he said he was glad they WERE sick, but—You do play the game so funny, sometimes Nancy,’ she sighed, as she went into the house.
“为什么，是的，”她承认道。 ‘当然这是一种方式，但不是我说的方式；而且——不知怎的，我似乎不太喜欢它的声音。他并不完全是说他很高兴他们生病了，但是——你玩这个游戏确实很有趣，有时是南希，”她走进屋子时叹了口气。

Pollyanna found her aunt in the sitting room.
波莉安娜在客厅里找到了她的阿姨。

‘Who was that man—the one who drove into the yard, Pollyanna?’ questioned the lady a little sharply.
“那个开车进院子的人是谁，波莉安娜？”那位女士尖锐地问道。

‘Why, Aunt Polly, that was Dr. Chilton! Don’t you know him?’
“噢，波莉姨妈，那是奇尔顿医生！”你不认识他吗？

‘Dr. Chilton! What was he doing—here?
‘博士。奇尔顿！他在这里做什么？

‘He drove me home. Oh, and I gave the jelly to Mr. Pendleton, and—‘
‘他开车送我回家。哦，我把果冻给了彭德尔顿先生，然后——”

Miss Polly lifted her head quickly.
波莉小姐迅速抬起头。

‘Pollyanna, he did not think I sent it?’
“盲目乐观，他以为不是我寄的？”

‘Oh, no, Aunt Polly. I told him you didn’t.’
“哦，不，波莉阿姨。我告诉他你没有。

Miss Polly grew a sudden vivid pink.
波莉小姐的脸突然变成鲜艳的粉红色。

‘You TOLD him I didn’t!’
“你告诉他我没有！”

Pollyanna opened wide her eyes at the remonstrative dismay in her aunt’s voice.
波莉安娜因姨妈声音中的责备和沮丧而睁大了眼睛。

‘Why, Aunt Polly, you SAID to!’
“为什么，波莉阿姨，你说过的！”

Aunt Polly sighed.
波莉阿姨叹了口气。

‘I SAID, Pollyanna, that I did not send it, and for you to be very sure that he did not think I DID!—which is a very different matter from TELLING him outright that I did not send it.’ And she turned vexedly away.
“我说过，波莉安娜，我没有寄出这封信，而且你要非常确定他认为我没有寄出这封信！——这与直接告诉他我没有寄出这封信是两码事。”她转过身来。恼怒地走开。

‘Dear me! Well, I don’t see where the difference is,’ sighed Pollyanna, as she went to hang her hat on the one particular hook in the house upon which Aunt Polly had said that it must be hung.
'亲爱的我！好吧，我不明白哪里有什么区别，”波莉安娜叹了口气，一边把帽子挂在房子里一个特别的钩子上，波莉姨妈说过必须把帽子挂在这个钩子上。

CHAPTER XVI. A RED ROSE AND A LACE SHAWL
第十六章。一朵红玫瑰和一条蕾丝披肩

It was on a rainy day about a week after Pollyanna’s visit to Mr. John Pendleton, that Miss Polly was driven by Timothy to an early afternoon committee meeting of the Ladies’ Aid Society. When she returned at three o’clock, her cheeks were a bright, pretty pink, and her hair, blown by the damp wind, had fluffed into kinks and curls wherever the loosened pins had given leave.
波莉安娜拜访约翰·彭德尔顿先生大约一周后的一个雨天，蒂莫西开车送波莉小姐去参加妇女援助协会下午早些时候举行的委员会会议。当她三点钟回来时，她的脸颊呈现出明亮、漂亮的粉红色，头发被潮湿的风吹动，松散的别针都被打结成卷曲。

Pollyanna had never before seen her aunt look like this.
波莉安娜以前从未见过她姨妈这个样子。

‘Oh—oh—oh! Why, Aunt Polly, you’ve got ‘em, too,’ she cried rapturously, dancing round and round her aunt, as that lady entered the sitting room.
'哦哦哦！哎呀，波莉姨妈，你也有它们，”当这位女士走进客厅时，她兴高采烈地喊道，围着她的姨妈跳舞。

‘Got what, you impossible child?’
“明白了吗，你这个不可能的孩子？”

Pollyanna was still revolving round and round her aunt.
波莉安娜仍然围着她姨妈转。

‘And I never knew you had ‘em! Can folks have ‘em when you don’t know they’ve got ‘em? DO you suppose I could?—‘fore I get to Heaven, I mean,’ she cried, pulling out with eager fingers the straight locks above her ears. ‘But then, they wouldn’t be black, if they did come. You can’t hide the black part.’
“我从来不知道你有它们！”当你不知道人们拥有它们时，他们还能拥有它们吗？你认为我可以吗？——“我是说，在我到达天堂之前，”她大声喊道，同时用急切的手指拉出耳朵上方的直发。 “但是，如果他们真的来了，就不会是黑人了。”你无法隐藏黑色部分。”

‘Pollyanna, what does all this mean?’ demanded Aunt Polly, hurriedly removing her hat, and trying to smooth back her disordered hair.
“波莉安娜，这一切意味着什么？”波莉姨妈问道，她急忙摘下帽子，试图梳理乱糟糟的头发。

‘No, no—please, Aunt Polly!’ Pollyanna’s jubilant voice turned to one of distressed appeal. ‘Don’t smooth ‘em out! It’s those that I’m talking about—those darling little black curls. Oh, Aunt Polly, they’re so pretty!’
“不，不——求求你了，波莉阿姨！”波莉安娜欢快的声音变成了一种痛苦的恳求。 ‘别抹平他们！我说的就是那些——那些可爱的黑色小卷发。哦，波莉阿姨，它们真漂亮！

‘Nonsense! What do you mean, Pollyanna, by going to the Ladies’ Aid the other day in that absurd fashion about that beggar boy?’
'废话！波莉安娜，你前几天以那个乞丐男孩的荒唐方式去妇女援助会是什么意思？

‘But it isn’t nonsense,’ urged Pollyanna, answering only the first of her aunt’s remarks. ‘You don’t know how pretty you look with your hair like that! Oh, Aunt Polly, please, mayn’t I do your hair like I did Mrs. Snow’s, and put in a flower? I’d so love to see you that way! Why, you’d be ever so much prettier than she was!’
“但这不是废话，”波莉安娜催促道，只回答了姑妈的第一句话。 ‘你不知道你的头发有多漂亮！哦，波莉姨妈，拜托，我可以像给斯诺夫人那样给你做头发，然后插上一朵花吗？我很想那样见到你！为什么，你会比她漂亮得多！

‘Pollyanna!’ (Miss Polly spoke very sharply—all the more sharply because Pollyanna’s words had given her an odd throb of joy: when before had anybody cared how she, or her hair looked? When before had anybody ‘loved’ to see her ‘pretty’?) ‘Pollyanna, you did not answer my question. Why did you go to the Ladies’ Aid in that absurd fashion?’
“波莉安娜！”（波莉小姐的语气非常尖锐——更加尖锐，因为波莉安娜的话给她带来了一种奇怪的喜悦的悸动：以前什么时候有人关心过她或她的头发的样子？以前什么时候有人“喜欢”看到她‘漂亮’？）‘盲目乐观，你没有回答我的问题。你为什么要以这种荒唐的方式去参加妇女援助会？

‘Yes’m, I know; but, please, I didn’t know it was absurd until I went and found out they’d rather see their report grow than Jimmy. So then I wrote to MY Ladies’ Aiders—‘cause Jimmy is far away from them, you know; and I thought maybe he could be their little India boy same as—Aunt Polly, WAS I your little India girl? And, Aunt Polly, you WILL let me do your hair, won’t you?’
“是的，我知道；”但是，拜托，我不知道这是荒谬的，直到我去发现他们宁愿看到他们的报告增长而不是吉米。于是我写信给我的女士们助手——因为吉米离她们很远，你知道；我想也许他可能是他们的印度小男孩，就像波莉阿姨，我是你的印度小女孩吗？而且，波莉阿姨，你会让我给你做头发，不是吗？

Aunt Polly put her hand to her throat—the old, helpless feeling was upon her, she knew.
波莉姨妈把手放在喉咙上——她知道，那种古老的、无助的感觉又在她身上袭来。

‘But, Pollyanna, when the ladies Old me this afternoon how you came to them, I was so ashamed! I—‘
“但是，波莉安娜，当女士们今天下午告诉我你是如何来到她们身边时，我感到非常羞愧！”我-'

Pollyanna began to dance up and down lightly on her toes.
波莉安娜开始用脚趾轻轻地上下跳舞。

‘You didn’t!—You didn’t say I COULDN’T do your hair,’ she crowed triumphantly; ‘and so I’m sure it means just the other way ‘round, sort of—like it did the other day about Mr. Pendleton’s jelly that you didn’t send, but didn’t want me to say you didn’t send, you know. Now wait just where you are. I’ll get a comb.’
“你没有！——你没有说我不能给你做头发，”她得意洋洋地喊道。 “所以我确信这意味着相反的意思，有点像前几天关于彭德尔顿先生的果冻的事情，你没有寄出，但不想让我说你没有寄出， 你知道。现在就在原地等待。我去拿一把梳子。

‘But Pollyanna, Pollyanna,’ remonstrated Aunt Polly, following the little girl from the room and panting up-stairs after her.
“但是盲目乐观，盲目乐观，”波莉姨妈抗议道，她跟着小女孩出了房间，气喘吁吁地跟着她上楼。

‘Oh, did you come up here?’ Pollyanna greeted her at the door of Miss Polly’s own room. ‘That’ll be nicer yet! I’ve got the comb. Now sit down, please, right here. Oh, I’m so glad you let me do it!’
“哦，你来这里吗？”波莉安娜在波莉小姐自己的房间门口迎接她。 ‘这样就更好了！我有梳子。现在请坐在这里。哦，我很高兴你让我这么做！

‘But, Pollyanna, I—I ‘
“但是，盲目乐观，我——我”

Miss Polly did not finish her sentence. To her helpless amazement she found herself in the low chair before the dressing table, with her hair already tumbling about her ears under ten eager, but very gentle fingers.
波莉小姐没有把话说完。让她无助地惊讶的是，她发现自己坐在梳妆台前的矮椅子上，十只热切但又非常温柔的手指下，她的头发已经在耳边翻滚。

‘Oh, my! what pretty hair you’ve got,’ prattled Pollyanna; ‘and there’s so much more of it than Mrs. Snow has, too! But, of course, you need more, anyhow, because you’re well and can go to places where folks can see it. My! I reckon folks’ll be glad when they do see it—and surprised, too, ‘cause you’ve hid it so long. Why, Aunt Polly, I’ll make you so pretty everybody’ll just love to look at you!’
'天啊！你的头发多漂亮啊，”波莉安娜喋喋不休地说。 “而且比斯诺夫人拥有的还要多得多！”但是，当然，无论如何，你需要更多，因为你很好，可以去人们可以看到的地方。我的！我想当人们看到它时，他们会很高兴，也会感到惊讶，因为你已经把它藏了这么久了。为什么，波莉阿姨，我会让你变得如此漂亮，每个人都会喜欢看你！

‘Pollyanna!’ gasped a stifled but shocked voice from a veil of hair. I—I’m sure I don’t know why I’m letting you do this silly thing.’
“盲目乐观！”从头发的面纱中传来一个压抑而又震惊的声音。我——我确定我不知道为什么我要让你做这件蠢事。

‘Why, Aunt Polly, I should think you’d be glad to have folks like to look at you! Don’t you like to look at pretty things? I’m ever so much happier when I look at pretty folks, ‘cause when I look at the other kind I’m so sorry for them.’
“哎呀，波莉阿姨，我想你会很高兴有人喜欢看你！”你不是喜欢看漂亮的东西吗？当我看到漂亮的人时，我会感到非常高兴，因为当我看到其他人时，我为他们感到难过。

‘But—but—‘
“但是——但是——”

‘And I just love to do folks’ hair,’ purred Pollyanna, contentedly. ‘I did quite a lot of the Ladies’ Aiders’—but there wasn’t any of them so nice as yours. Mrs. White’s was pretty nice, though, and she looked just lovely one day when I dressed her up in—Oh, Aunt Polly, I’ve just happened to think of something! But it’s a secret, and I sha’n’t tell. Now your hair is almost done, and pretty quick I’m going to leave you just a minute; and you must promise—promise—PROMISE not to stir nor peek, even, till I come back. Now remember! she finished, as she ran from the room.
“我只是喜欢给人们做头发，”波莉安娜满足地说道。 “我做了很多女士助手”——但没有一个像你的那样好。不过，怀特夫人的衣服相当漂亮，有一天，当我给她穿上——哦，波莉阿姨，我刚刚想到一件事时，她看起来很可爱！但这是一个秘密，我不会说出去。现在你的头发就快做好了，很快我就离开你一分钟了；你必须保证——保证——保证在我回来之前不要动，也不要偷看。现在记住！她说完，就跑出了房间。

Aloud Miss Polly said nothing. To herself she said that of course she should at once undo the absurd work of her niece’s fingers, and put her hair up properly again. As for ‘peeking’ just as if she cared how—
波莉小姐大声地什么也没说。她对自己说，她当然应该立即解开侄女手指所做的荒谬的工作，把头发重新盘起来。至于“偷看”，就好像她很在乎一样——

At that moment—unaccountably—Miss Polly caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror of the dressing table. And what she saw sent such a flush of rosy color to her cheeks that—she only flushed the more at the sight.
就在那一刻，波莉小姐莫名其妙地在梳妆台的镜子里瞥见了自己。她看到的景象让她的脸颊泛起红晕——她的脸红得更厉害了。

She saw a face—not young, it is true—but just now alight with excitement and surprise. The cheeks were a pretty pink. The eyes sparkled. The hair, dark, and still damp from the outdoor air, lay in loose waves about the forehead and curved back over the ears in wonderfully becoming lines, with softening little curls here and there.
她看到一张脸——确实不年轻了——但此刻却充满了兴奋和惊讶。脸颊呈漂亮的粉红色。眼睛闪闪发亮。头发乌黑，还因室外空气的潮湿而潮湿，前额周围呈松散的波浪状，向后弯曲到耳朵上方，形成美妙的线条，到处都有柔和的小卷发。

So amazed and so absorbed was Miss Polly with what she saw in the glass that she quite forgot her determination to do over her hair, until she heard Pollyanna enter the room again. Before she could move, then, she felt a folded something slipped across her eyes and tied in the back.
波莉小姐对镜子里的景象感到如此惊讶和全神贯注，以至于她完全忘记了自己要整理头发的决心，直到她听到波莉安娜再次走进房间。她还没来得及移动，就感觉有一个折叠的东西滑过她的眼睛，绑在背后。

‘Pollyanna, Pollyanna! What are you doing?’ she cried.
‘盲目乐观，盲目乐观！ “你在做什么？”她喊道。

Pollyanna chuckled.
波莉安娜咯咯笑起来。

‘That’s just what I don’t want you to know, Aunt Polly, and I was afraid you WOULD peek, so I tied on the handkerchief. Now sit still. It won’t take but just a minute, then I’ll let you see.’
“这就是我不想让你知道的事，波莉阿姨，我担心你会偷看，所以我系上了手帕。现在坐稳了。不需要一分钟，然后我会让你看看。

‘But, Pollyanna,’ began Miss Polly, struggling blindly to her feet, ‘you must take this off! You—child, child! what ARE you doing?’ she gasped, as she felt a soft something slipped about her shoulders.
“但是，波莉安娜，”波莉小姐开始说，盲目地挣扎着站起来，“你必须把它脱掉！”你——孩子，孩子！你在做什么？”她喘息着，感觉有什么柔软的东西从她的肩膀上滑落。

Pollyanna only chuckled the more gleefully. With trembling fingers she was draping about her aunt’s shoulders the fleecy folds of a beautiful lace shawl, yellowed from long years of packing away, and fragrant with lavender. Pollyanna had found the shawl the week before when Nancy had been regulating the attic; and it had occurred to her to-day that there was no reason why her aunt, as well as Mrs. White of her Western home, should not be ‘dressed up.’
波莉安娜只是笑得更开心了。她用颤抖的手指把一条美丽的蕾丝披肩的蓬松褶皱披在姨妈的肩上，披肩因长年累月的收拾而泛黄，散发着薰衣草的芳香。波莉安娜一周前发现了这条围巾，当时南希正在整理阁楼。今天她突然想到，她的姨妈以及她西方家乡的怀特太太没有理由不“盛装打扮”。

Her task completed, Pollyanna surveyed her work with eyes that approved, but that saw yet one touch wanting. Promptly, therefore, she pulled her aunt toward the sun parlor where she could see a belated red rose blooming on the trellis within reach of her hand.
波莉安娜的任务完成了，她用认可的目光审视着自己的作品，但仍然缺少一点。于是，她赶紧拉着姨妈往日光浴室走去，她看到伸手可及的格子上盛开着一朵迟来的红玫瑰。

‘Pollyanna, what are you doing? Where are you taking me to?’ recoiled Aunt Polly, vainly trying to hold herself back. ‘Pollyanna, I shall not—‘
‘波莉安娜，你在做什么？你要带我去哪里？”波莉姨妈退缩了，徒劳地试图克制住自己。 “盲目乐观，我不会——”

‘It’s just to the sun parlor—only a minute! I’ll have you ready now quicker’n no time,’ panted Pollyanna, reaching for the rose and thrusting it into the soft hair above Miss Polly’s left ear. ‘There!’ she exulted, untying the knot of the handkerchief and flinging the bit of linen far from her. ‘Oh, Aunt Polly, now I reckon you’ll be glad I dressed you up!’
“就到日光浴室了——只要一分钟！”我会尽快让你准备好，很快，”波莉安娜气喘吁吁地说，伸手去拿玫瑰花，把它塞进波莉小姐左耳上方柔软的头发里。 “好了！”她兴奋地说道，解开手帕的结，把那块亚麻布扔得远远的。 “哦，波莉阿姨，现在我想你会很高兴我给你打扮的！”

For one dazed moment Miss Polly looked at her bedecked self, and at her surroundings; then she gave a low cry and fled to her room. Pollyanna, following the direction of her aunt’s last dismayed gaze, saw, through the open windows of the sun parlor, the horse and gig turning into the driveway. She recognized at once the man who held the reins. Delightedly she leaned forward.
有那么一会儿，波莉小姐茫然地看着自己衣冠楚楚的自己，又看看周围的环境。然后她低声叫了一声，逃回了自己的房间。波莉安娜顺着姨妈最后那双沮丧的目光望去，透过阳光客厅开着的窗户，看到马和马车拐进了车道。她立刻认出了那个握着缰绳的男人。她高兴地向前倾身。

‘Dr. Chilton, Dr. Chilton! Did you want to see me? I’m up here.’
‘博士。奇尔顿，奇尔顿博士！你想见我吗？我在这儿。

‘Yes,’ smiled the doctor, a little gravely. ‘Will you come down, please?’
“是的，”医生微笑着，表情有些严肃。 “请下来好吗？”

In the bedroom Pollyanna found a flushed-faced, angry-eyed woman plucking at the pins that held a lace shawl in place.
在卧室里，波莉安娜发现一名脸色通红、眼神愤怒的女人正在拔扯固定蕾丝披肩的别针。

‘Pollyanna, how could you?’ moaned the woman. ‘To think of your rigging me up like this, and then letting me—BE SEEN!’
“盲目乐观，你怎么能这样？”女人呻吟道。 “想想你这样操纵我，然后让我——被看到！”

Pollyanna stopped in dismay.
波莉安娜沮丧地停了下来。

‘But you looked lovely—perfectly lovely, Aunt Polly; and—‘
“但是你看起来很可爱——非常可爱，波莉阿姨；和-'

‘ ‘Lovely’!’ scorned the woman, flinging the shawl to one side and attacking her hair with shaking fingers.
“‘可爱’！”女人轻蔑地说，把围巾甩到一边，用颤抖的手指梳理头发。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly, please, please let the hair stay!’
“哦，波莉阿姨，求求你，让头发留下吧！”

‘Stay? Like this? As if I would!’ And Miss Polly pulled the locks so tightly back that the last curl lay stretched dead at the ends of her fingers.
'停留？像这样？就好像我会的一样！”波莉小姐把头发紧紧地向后拉，最后一缕卷发在她的手指末端完全伸展开来。

‘O dear! And you did look so pretty,’ almost sobbed Pollyanna, as she stumbled through the door.
‘哦，亲爱的！你看起来确实很漂亮，”当波莉安娜跌跌撞撞地走进门时，她几乎抽泣起来。

Down-stairs Pollyanna found the doctor waiting in his gig.
波莉安娜在楼下发现医生正在他的手术室里等着。

‘I’ve prescribed you for a patient, and he’s sent me to get the prescription filled,’ announced the doctor. ‘Will you go?’
“我给一位病人开了你的处方，他派我去配药。”医生宣布道。 '你会去吗？'

‘You mean—an errand—to the drug store?’ asked Pollyanna, a little uncertainly. ‘I used to go some—for the Ladies’ Aiders.’
“你是说——去药店办事？”波莉安娜有点不确定地问道。 “我曾经去过一些——为了女士助手。”

The doctor shook his head with a smile.
医生笑着摇摇头。

‘Not exactly. It’s Mr. John Pendleton. He would like to see you to-day, if you’ll be so good as to come. It’s stopped raining, so I drove down after you. Will you come? I’ll call for you and bring you back before six o’clock.’
'不完全是。我是约翰·彭德尔顿先生。如果你愿意的话，他今天想见你。雨停了，所以我开车追你。你会来吗？我会打电话叫你，六点前带你回来。”

‘I’d love to!’ exclaimed Pollyanna. ‘Let me ask Aunt Polly.’
“我很乐意！”波莉安娜喊道。 “让我问问波莉阿姨。”

In a few moments she returned, hat in hand, but with rather a sober face.
过了一会儿，她回来了，手里拿着帽子，但表情相当清醒。

‘Didn’t—your aunt want you to go?’ asked the doctor, a little diffidently, as they drove away.
“你姨妈不是想让你走吗？”他们开车离开时，医生有点怯怯地问道。

‘Y-yes,’ sighed Pollyanna. ‘She—she wanted me to go TOO much, I’m afraid.’
“是——是的，”波莉安娜叹了口气。 “恐怕她——她太想让我去了。”

‘Wanted you to go TOO MUCH!’
“太想让你去了！”

Pollyanna sighed again.
波莉安娜再次叹了口气。

‘Yes. I reckon she meant she didn’t want me there. You see, she said: ‘Yes, yes, run along, run along—do! I wish you’d gone before.’ ‘
'是的。我想她的意思是她不想让我在那里。你看，她说：‘是的，是的，跑起来，跑起来——做！我希望你早点走。”

The doctor smiled—but with his lips only. His eyes were very grave. For some time he said nothing; then, a little hesitatingly, he asked:
医生笑了——但只是用嘴唇。他的眼神非常严肃。有一段时间他什么也没说。然后，他有些犹豫地问道：

‘Wasn’t it—your aunt I saw with you a few minutes ago—in the window of the sun parlor?
“几分钟前我看到你姨妈和你在一起，不是在阳光客厅的窗户里吗？

Pollyanna drew a long breath.
波莉安娜长长地吸了一口气。

‘Yes; that’s what’s the whole trouble, I suppose. You see I’d dressed her up in a perfectly lovely lace shawl I found up-stairs, and I’d fixed her hair and put on a rose, and she looked so pretty. Didn’t YOU think she looked just lovely?’
'是的;我想这就是问题所在。你看，我给她穿上了我在楼上找到的一条非常可爱的蕾丝披肩，我还整理了她的头发，戴上了一朵玫瑰花，她看起来很漂亮。你不觉得她看起来很可爱吗？

For a moment the doctor did not answer. When he did speak his voice was so low Pollyanna could but just hear the words.
医生一时没有回答。当他说话时，他的声音很低，波莉安娜只能听到他的话。

‘Yes, Pollyanna, I—I thought she did look—just lovely.’
“是的，波莉安娜，我——我觉得她看起来确实——很可爱。”

‘Did you? I’m so glad! I’ll tell her,’ nodded the little girl, contentedly.
'你是否？我很高兴！我会告诉她的。”小女孩满意地点点头。

To her surprise the doctor gave a sudden exclamation.
令她惊讶的是，医生突然惊呼了一声。

‘Never! Pollyanna, I—I’m afraid I shall have to ask you not to tell her—that.’
'绝不！盲目乐观，我——恐怕我不得不请你不要告诉她——这一点。

‘Why, Dr. Chilton! Why not? I should think you’d be glad—‘
‘为什么，奇尔顿博士！为什么不？我想你会很高兴——”

‘But she might not be,’ cut in the doctor.
“但她可能不是，”医生插话道。

Pollyanna considered this for a moment.
波莉安娜考虑了一会儿。

‘That’s so—maybe she wouldn’t,’ she sighed. ‘I remember now; ‘twas ‘cause she saw you that she ran. And she—she spoke afterwards about her being seen in that rig.’
“是这样——也许她不会，”她叹了口气。 '我想起来了;因为她看到了你，所以她才跑。她——她后来谈到有人看到她在那台钻机里。

‘I thought as much,’ declared the doctor, under his breath.
“我也是这么想的，”医生低声说道。

‘Still, I don’t see why,’ maintained Pollyanna, ‘—when she looked so pretty!’
“不过，我不明白为什么，”波莉安娜坚持道，“——当她看起来如此漂亮的时候！”

The doctor said nothing. He did not speak again, indeed, until they were almost to the great stone house in which John Pendleton lay with a broken leg.
医生什么也没说。事实上，他没有再说话，直到他们快到约翰·彭德尔顿断腿躺在里面的大石屋为止。

CHAPTER XVII. ‘JUST LIKE A BOOK”
第十七章。 “就像一本书一样”

John Pendleton greeted Pollyanna to-day with a smile.
约翰·彭德尔顿今天微笑着向波莉安娜打招呼。

‘Well, Miss Pollyanna, I’m thinking you must be a very forgiving little person, else you wouldn’t have come to see me again to-day.’
“好吧，波莉安娜小姐，我想你一定是一个非常宽容的小人，否则你今天就不会再来见我了。”

‘Why, Mr. Pendleton, I was real glad to come, and I’m sure I don’t see why I shouldn’t be, either.’
“哦，彭德尔顿先生，我真的很高兴来，而且我确信我也不明白为什么我不应该来。”

‘Oh, well, you know, I was pretty cross with you, I’m afraid, both the other day when you so kindly brought me the jelly, and that time when you found me with the broken leg at first. By the way, too, I don’t think I’ve ever thanked you for that. Now I’m sure that even you would admit that you were very forgiving to come and see me, after such ungrateful treatment as that!’
“哦，好吧，你知道，恐怕我很生你的气，那天你好心地给我带来了果冻，还有那次你一开始发现我的腿断了。顺便说一句，我想我从来没有为此感谢过你。现在我相信，即使是你也会承认，在经历了如此忘恩负义的对待之后，你来看我是非常宽容的！”

Pollyanna stirred uneasily.
波莉安娜不安地动了动。

‘But I was glad to find you—that is, I don’t mean I was glad your leg was broken, of course,’ she corrected hurriedly.
“但我很高兴找到你——当然，我并不是说我很高兴你的腿断了，”她赶紧纠正道。

John Pendleton smiled.
约翰·彭德尔顿笑了。

‘I understand. Your tongue does get away with you once in a while, doesn’t it, Miss Pollyanna? I do thank you, however; and I consider you a very brave little girl to do what you did that day. I thank you for the jelly, too,’ he added in a lighter voice.
'我明白。你的舌头确实偶尔会失控，不是吗，波莉安娜小姐？不过，我还是很感谢你；我认为你是一个非常勇敢的小女孩，做了那天所做的事情。我也谢谢你给我的果冻，”他用更轻松的声音补充道。

‘Did you like it?’ asked Pollyanna with interest.
“你喜欢吗？”波莉安娜饶有兴趣地问。

‘Very much. I suppose—there isn’t any more to-day that—that Aunt Polly DIDN’T send, is there?’ he asked with an odd smile.
'非常。我想——今天已经没有了——波莉姨妈没有送来，是吗？”他带着奇怪的微笑问道。

His visitor looked distressed.
他的来访者看起来很痛苦。

‘N-no, sir.’ She hesitated, then went on with heightened color. ‘Please, Mr. Pendleton, I didn’t mean to be rude the other day when I said Aunt Polly did NOT send the jelly.’
“不——不，先生。”她犹豫了一下，然后脸色更红了。 “拜托，彭德尔顿先生，前几天我说波莉阿姨没有送果冻时，我并不是有意无礼。”

There was no answer. John Pendleton was not smiling now. He was looking straight ahead of him with eyes that seemed to be gazing through and beyond the object before them. After a time he drew a long sigh and turned to Pollyanna. When he spoke his voice carried the old nervous fretfulness.
没有人回答。约翰·彭德尔顿现在没有笑容。他直视前方，目光似乎在凝视着前方的物体。过了一会儿，他长长地叹了一口气，转向波莉安娜。当他说话时，他的声音带着往日的紧张焦躁。

‘Well, well, this will never do at all! I didn’t send for you to see me moping this time. Listen! Out in the library—the big room where the telephone is, you know—you will find a carved box on the lower shelf of the big case with glass doors in the corner not far from the fireplace. That is, it’ll be there if that confounded woman hasn’t ‘regulated’ it to somewhere else! You may bring it to me. It is heavy, but not too heavy for you to carry, I think.’
‘好吧，好吧，这根本不行！这次我派人来找你，并不是为了看我闷闷不乐。听！在图书馆里——电话所在的大房间，你知道——你会在离壁炉不远的角落里发现一个带有玻璃门的大箱子的下层架子上有一个雕刻的盒子。也就是说，如果那个混蛋女人没有将它‘调节’到其他地方的话，它就会在那里！你可以把它带给我。它很重，但我认为对你来说还不算太重。

‘Oh, I’m awfully strong,’ declared Pollyanna, cheerfully, as she sprang to her feet. In a minute she had returned with the box.
“哦，我非常坚强，”波莉安娜跳了起来，高兴地说道。不一会儿，她就带着盒子回来了。

It was a wonderful half-hour that Pollyanna spent then. The box was full of treasures—curios that John Pendleton had picked up in years of travel—and concerning each there was some entertaining story, whether it were a set of exquisitely carved chessmen from China, or a little jade idol from India.
波莉安娜度过了美好的半个小时。盒子里装满了珍宝——约翰·彭德尔顿在多年的旅行中捡到的古玩——每一件都有一些有趣的故事，无论是一套来自中国的雕刻精美的国际象棋，还是来自印度的一个小玉佛像。

It was after she had heard the story about the idol that Pollyanna murmured wistfully:
听完偶像的故事后，波莉安娜若有所思地低声说道：

‘Well, I suppose it WOULD be better to take a little boy in India to bring up—one that didn’t know any more than to think that God was in that doll-thing—than it would be to take Jimmy Bean, a little boy who knows God is up in the sky. Still, I can’t help wishing they had wanted Jimmy Bean, too, besides the India boys.’
“好吧，我想，带一个印度小男孩来抚养——一个除了认为上帝就在那个玩偶里之外一无所知的小男孩——比带一个吉米·比恩（Jimmy Bean）来抚养要好得多。认识上帝的小男孩在天上。尽管如此，我还是忍不住希望除了印度男孩之外，他们也想要吉米·比恩。

John Pendleton did not seem to hear. Again his, eyes were staring straight before him, looking at nothing. But soon he had roused himself, and had picked up another curio to talk about.
约翰·彭德尔顿似乎没有听到。他的眼睛又直视前方，什么也没看。但很快他就清醒了过来，又拿起了一件古玩来谈论。

The visit, certainly, was a delightful one, but before it was over, Pollyanna was realizing that they were talking about something besides the wonderful things in the beautiful carved box. They were talking of herself, of Nancy, of Aunt Polly, and of her daily life. They were talking, too, even of the life and home long ago in the far Western town.
这次访问当然是一次令人愉快的访问，但在结束之前，波莉安娜意识到他们谈论的不仅仅是那个美丽的雕刻盒子里的奇妙东西。他们正在谈论她自己、南希、波莉阿姨和她的日常生活。他们也在谈论很久以前在遥远的西部小镇的生活和家园。

Not until it was nearly time for her to go, did the man say, in a voice Pollyanna had never before heard from stern John Pendleton:
直到她快要离开的时候，那个男人才用波莉安娜从未听过严厉的约翰·彭德尔顿的声音说道：

‘Little girl, I want you to come to see me often. Will you? I’m lonesome, and I need you. There’s another reason—and I’m going to tell you that, too. I thought, at first, after I found out who you were, the other day, that I didn’t want you to come any more. You reminded me of—of something I have tried for long years to forget. So I said to myself that I never wanted to see you again; and every day, when the doctor asked if I wouldn’t let him bring you to me, I said no.
“小姑娘，我想让你经常来看我。”你会？我很孤独，我需要你。还有另一个原因——我也将告诉你。前几天我知道你是谁后，一开始我以为我不想再让你来了。你让我想起了多年来我一直试图忘记的事情。所以我对自己说，我再也不想见到你；每天，当医生问我是否不允许他带你来见我时，我都会说不。

‘But after a time I found I was wanting to see you so much that—that the fact that I WASN’T seeing you was making me remember all the more vividly the thing I was so wanting to forget. So now I want you to come. Will you—little girl?’
“但过了一段时间，我发现我非常想见到你——事实上，我没有见到你，这让我更加清楚地记得我如此想忘记的事情。所以现在我希望你能来。你愿意吗——小女孩？

‘Why, yes, Mr. Pendleton,’ breathed Pollyanna, her eyes luminous with sympathy for the sad-faced man lying back on the pillow before her. ‘I’d love to come!’
“哦，是的，彭德尔顿先生，”波莉安娜喘着气说，她的眼睛里闪烁着同情的光芒，同情躺在她面前枕头上的那个满脸悲伤的男人。 '乐意至极！'

‘Thank you,’ said John Pendleton, gently.
“谢谢你，”约翰·彭德尔顿温柔地说。

After supper that evening, Pollyanna, sitting on the back porch, told Nancy all about Mr. John Pendleton’s wonderful carved box, and the still more wonderful things it contained.
那天晚上吃过晚饭后，波莉安娜坐在后廊上，向南希讲述了约翰·彭德尔顿先生那精美的雕刻盒子以及里面装着的更美妙的东西。

‘And ter think,’ sighed Nancy, ‘that he SHOWED ye all them things, and told ye about ‘em like that—him that’s so cross he never talks ter no one—no one!’
“你想，”南希叹了口气，“他向你们展示了所有的事情，并像那样告诉你们有关他们的事情——他是如此的脾气暴躁，他从不与任何人交谈——任何人！”

‘Oh, but he isn’t cross, Nancy, only outside,’ demurred Pollyanna, with quick loyalty. ‘I don’t see why everybody thinks he’s so bad, either. They wouldn’t, if they knew him. But even Aunt Polly doesn’t like him very well. She wouldn’t send the jelly to him, you know, and she was so afraid he’d think she did send it!’
“哦，但他并没有生气，南希，只是在外面。”波莉安娜反驳道，态度很快就变得忠诚起来。 “我也不明白为什么每个人都认为他这么糟糕。如果他们认识他，他们就不会这么做。但就连波莉姨妈也不太喜欢他。她不会把果冻寄给他，你知道，她很害怕他会认为她确实寄了！

‘Probably she didn’t call him no duty,’ shrugged Nancy. ‘But what beats me is how he happened ter take ter you so, Miss Pollyanna—meanin’ no offence ter you, of course—but he ain’t the sort o’ man what gen’rally takes ter kids; he ain’t, he ain’t.’
“也许她并没有说他没有责任，”南希耸耸肩。 “但是令我困惑的是他怎么会这样对待你，波莉安娜小姐——当然，我的意思不是冒犯你——但他不是那种通常会对待孩子的人；他不是，他不是。

Pollyanna smiled happily.
波莉安娜开心地笑了。

‘But he did, Nancy,’ she nodded, ‘only I reckon even he didn’t want to—ALL the time. Why, only to-day he owned up that one time he just felt he never wanted to see me again, because I reminded him of something he wanted to forget. But afterwards—‘
“但他确实这么做了，南希，”她点点头，“只是我认为他也不想这么做——一直以来。”为什么，直到今天他才承认，有一次他只是觉得他再也不想见到我了，因为我让他想起了一些他想忘记的事情。但后来——”

‘What’s that?’ interrupted Nancy, excitedly. ‘He said you reminded him of something he wanted to forget?’
“那是什么？”南希兴奋地打断道。 “他说你让他想起了一些他想忘记的事情？”

‘Yes. But afterwards—‘
'是的。但后来——”

‘What was it?’ Nancy was eagerly insistent.
“那是什么？”南希急切地追问。

‘He didn’t tell me. He just said it was something.’
‘他没有告诉我。他只是说这是某件事。

‘THE MYSTERY!’ breathed Nancy, in an awestruck voice. ‘That’s why he took to you in the first place. Oh, Miss Pollyanna! Why, that’s just like a book—I’ve read lots of ‘em; ‘Lady Maud’s Secret,’ and ‘The Lost Heir,’ and ‘Hidden for Years’—all of ‘em had mysteries and things just like this. My stars and stockings! Just think of havin’ a book lived right under yer nose like this an’ me not knowin’ it all this time! Now tell me everythin’—everythin’ he said, Miss Pollyanna, there’s a dear! No wonder he took ter you; no wonder—no wonder!’
“这个谜！”南希用一种敬畏的声音喘息道。 ‘这就是他一开始就喜欢你的原因。噢，波莉安娜小姐！哎呀，这就像一本书一样——我读过很多本； 《莫德夫人的秘密》、《失落的继承人》、《隐藏多年》——所有这些都充满了谜团和类似的事情。我的星星和丝袜！想想看，有一本书就在你眼皮子底下，而我却一直不知道！现在告诉我一切——他说的一切，波莉安娜小姐，亲爱的！难怪他会喜欢你；难怪——难怪！’

‘But he didn’t,’ cried Pollyanna, ‘not till I talked to HIM, first. And he didn’t even know who I was till I took the calf’s-foot jelly, and had to make him understand that Aunt Polly didn’t send it, and—‘
“但他没有，”波莉安娜喊道，“直到我先和他谈过。”他甚至不知道我是谁，直到我拿走了小牛脚果冻，并且必须让他明白波莉姨妈没有送来，而且——”

Nancy sprang to her feet and clasped her hands together suddenly.
南希跳了起来，突然双手合十。

‘Oh, Miss Pollyanna, I know, I know—I KNOW I know!’ she exulted rapturously. The next minute she was down at Pollyanna’s side again. ‘Tell me—now think, and answer straight and true,’ she urged excitedly. ‘It was after he found out you was Miss Polly’s niece that he said he didn’t ever want ter see ye again, wa’n’t it?’
“哦，波莉安娜小姐，我知道，我知道——我知道我知道！”她欣喜若狂。下一分钟，她又倒在波莉安娜身边。 “告诉我——现在想一想，直接、真实地回答，”她兴奋地催促道。 “当他发现你是波莉小姐的侄女后，他就说他再也不想见到你了，不是吗？”

‘Oh, yes. I told him that the last time I saw him, and he told me this to-day.’
'哦是的。上次见到他时我告诉了他，他今天也告诉了我。”

‘I thought as much,’ triumphed Nancy. ‘And Miss Polly wouldn’t send the jelly herself, would she?’
“我也是这么想的，”南希得意地说。 “波莉小姐不会亲自送果冻吧？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘And you told him she didn’t send it?’
“你告诉他她没有寄来？”

‘Why, yes; I—‘
'为什么是;我-'

‘And he began ter act queer and cry out sudden after he found out you was her niece. He did that, didn’t he?’
“当他发现你是她的侄女后，他开始表现得很奇怪，突然大哭起来。”他做到了，不是吗？

‘Why, y-yes; he did act a little queer—over that jelly,’ admitted Pollyanna, with a thoughtful frown.
‘为什么，是、是的； “他的行为确实有点奇怪——因为那果冻，”波莉安娜承认道，若有所思地皱着眉头。

Nancy drew a long sigh.
南希长长地叹了口气。

‘Then I’ve got it, sure! Now listen. MR. JOHN PENDLETON WAS MISS POLLY HARRINGTON’S LOVER!’ she announced impressively, but with a furtive glance over her shoulder.
‘那我就明白了，当然！现在听。先生。 “约翰·彭德尔顿是波莉·哈林顿小姐的情人！”她令人印象深刻地宣布，但同时偷偷地回头看了一眼。

‘Why, Nancy, he couldn’t be! She doesn’t like him,’ objected Pollyanna.
‘为什么，南希，他不可能！她不喜欢他。”波莉安娜反对道。

Nancy gave her a scornful glance.
南希轻蔑地看了她一眼。

‘Of course she don’t! THAT’S the quarrel!
‘她当然不知道！这就是争吵！

Pollyanna still looked incredulous, and with another long breath Nancy happily settled herself to tell the story.
波莉安娜看上去仍然难以置信，南希又长长地吸了一口气，高兴地坐下来讲述这个故事。

‘It’s like this. Just before you come, Mr. Tom told me Miss Polly had had a lover once. I didn’t believe it. I couldn’t—her and a lover! But Mr. Tom said she had, and that he was livin’ now right in this town. And NOW I know, of course. It’s John Pendleton. Hain’t he got a mystery in his life? Don’t he shut himself up in that grand house alone, and never speak ter no one? Didn’t he act queer when he found out you was Miss Polly’s niece? And now hain’t he owned up that you remind him of somethin’ he wants ter forget? Just as if ANYBODY couldn’t see ‘twas Miss Polly!—an’ her sayin’ she wouldn’t send him no jelly, too. Why, Miss Pollyanna, it’s as plain as the nose on yer face; it is, it is!’
'就像这样。就在你来之前，汤姆先生告诉我波利小姐曾经有过一个情人。我不相信。我不能——她和一个情人！但汤姆先生说她已经这么做了，而且他现在就住在这个镇上。现在我当然知道了。这是约翰·彭德尔顿。他的人生难道就没有什么秘密吗？他不是把自己一个人关在这座大房子里，不跟任何人说话吗？当他发现你是波莉小姐的侄女时，他的行为不是很奇怪吗？现在他不是承认你让他想起了一些他想要忘记的事情吗？就像任何人都看不到“那是波莉小姐！”——她说她也不会给他寄果冻。哎呀，波莉安娜小姐，它就像你脸上的鼻子一样简单；是的，是的！’

‘Oh-h!’ breathed Pollyanna, in wide-eyed amazement. ‘But, Nancy, I should think if they loved each other they’d make up some time. Both of ‘em all alone, so, all these years. I should think they’d be glad to make up!’
“哦——哈！”波莉安娜惊讶地睁大了眼睛，喘息着。 “但是，南希，我想如果他们彼此相爱，他们会找个时间和好的。”这些年来，他们俩都是孤身一人。我想他们会很高兴和好！

Nancy sniffed disdainfully.
南希轻蔑地哼了一声。

‘I guess maybe you don’t know much about lovers, Miss Pollyanna. You ain’t big enough yet, anyhow. But if there IS a set o’ folks in the world that wouldn’t have no use for that ‘ere ‘glad game’ o’ your’n, it’d be a pair o’ quarrellin’ lovers; and that’s what they be. Ain’t he cross as sticks, most gen’rally?—and ain’t she—‘
“我猜你可能不太了解情人，波莉安娜小姐。无论如何，你还不够大。但如果世界上有一群人对你的“快乐游戏”没有任何用处，那一定是一对吵架的恋人；他们就是这样。一般来说，他不是像棍棒一样生气吗？——而她不是——”

Nancy stopped abruptly, remembering just in time to whom, and about whom, she was speaking. Suddenly, however, she chuckled.
南希突然停了下来，她及时记起了自己正在对谁说话，以及在谈论谁。然而，她突然笑了。

‘I ain’t sayin’, though, Miss Pollyanna, but what it would be a pretty slick piece of business if you could GET ‘em ter playin’ it—so they WOULD be glad ter make up. But, my land! wouldn’t folks stare some—Miss Polly and him! I guess, though, there ain’t much chance, much chance!’
“我不是说”，波莉安娜小姐，但是如果你能让他们玩的话，那将是一件非常圆滑的事情——所以他们会很高兴和好。但是，我的土地！人们不会盯着看吗——波莉小姐和他！但我想，机会不大，机会很大！”

Pollyanna said nothing; but when she went into the house a little later, her face was very thoughtful.
波莉安娜什么也没说。但过了一会儿，当她进屋时，她的表情却十分若有所思。

CHAPTER XVIII. PRISMS
第十八章。棱镜

As the warm August days passed, Pollyanna went very frequently to the great house on Pendleton Hill. She did not feel, however, that her visits were really a success. Not but that the man seemed to want her there—he sent for her, indeed, frequently; but that when she was there, he seemed scarcely any the happier for her presence—at least, so Pollyanna thought.
随着八月温暖的日子过去，波莉安娜经常去彭德尔顿山的大房子。然而，她并不觉得这次访问真的很成功。并不是说那个男人似乎想要她在那里——事实上，他经常派人来找她。但当她在那里时，他似乎并没有因为她的存在而感到高兴——至少波莉安娜是这么想的。

He talked to her, it was true, and be showed her many strange and beautiful things—books, pictures, and curios. But he still fretted audibly over his own helplessness, and he chafed visibly under the rules and ‘regulatings’ of the unwelcome members of his household. He did, indeed, seem to like to hear Pollyanna talk, however, and Pollyanna talked, Pollyanna liked to talk—but she was never sure that she would not look up and find him lying back on his pillow with that white, hurt look that always pained her; and she was never sure which—if any—of her words had brought it there. As for telling him the ‘glad game,’ and trying to get him to play it—Pollyanna had never seen the time yet when she thought he would care to hear about it. She had twice tried to tell him; but neither time had she got beyond the beginning of what her father had said—John Pendleton had on each occasion turned the conversation abruptly to another subject.
他确实与她交谈，并向她展示了许多奇怪而美丽的东西——书籍、图画和古玩。但他仍然为自己的无助而烦恼，并且明显对不受欢迎的家庭成员的规则和“规定”感到恼火。不过，他确实似乎很喜欢听波莉安娜说话，而波莉安娜也说话，波莉安娜喜欢说话——但她不确定自己是否会抬起头，发现他躺在枕头上，表情苍白、受伤。总是让她痛苦；她也不确定是她哪句话——如果有的话——带来了这种感觉。至于告诉他“快乐的游戏”，并试图让他玩这个游戏——波莉安娜还没有见过他会愿意听的时候。她曾两次试图告诉他，但都没有成功。但每次她都没有超越她父亲所说的话——约翰·彭德尔顿每次都突然把谈话转向另一个话题。

Pollyanna never doubted now that John Pendleton was her Aunt Polly’s one-time lover; and with all the strength of her loving, loyal heart, she wished she could in some way bring happiness into their to her mind—miserably lonely lives.
波莉安娜现在从不怀疑约翰·彭德尔顿是她波莉姨妈的曾经的情人。凭借她那颗充满爱心和忠诚的心，她希望能够以某种方式为她的心目中的人们带来幸福——悲惨的孤独生活。

Just how she was to do this, however, she could not see. She talked to Mr. Pendleton about her aunt; and he listened, sometimes politely, sometimes irritably, frequently with a quizzical smile on his usually stern lips. She talked to her aunt about Mr. Pendleton—or rather, she tried to talk to her about him. As a general thing, however, Miss Polly would not listen—long. She always found something else to talk about. She frequently did that, however, when Pollyanna was talking of others—of Dr. Chilton, for instance. Pollyanna laid this, though, to the fact that it had been Dr. Chilton who had seen her in the sun parlor with the rose in her hair and the lace shawl draped about her shoulders. Aunt Polly, indeed, seemed particularly bitter against Dr. Chilton, as Pollyanna found out one day when a hard cold shut her up in the house.
然而，她不知道该怎么做。她向彭德尔顿先生谈到了她的姨妈。他听着，时而礼貌，时而烦躁，平时严厉的嘴唇上常常挂着一丝古怪的微笑。她和姨妈谈论彭德尔顿先生——或者更确切地说，她试图和姨妈谈论他。不过，一般来说，波莉小姐不会听——听得太久。她总是能找到别的话题来谈论。然而，当波莉安娜谈论其他人（例如奇尔顿医生）时，她经常这样做。不过，波莉安娜认为，这是奇尔顿医生在日光客厅里看到她的，她头发上插着玫瑰，肩上披着蕾丝披肩。事实上，波莉姨妈似乎对奇尔顿医生特别怨恨，有一天，波莉安娜因一场重感冒而将她关在屋子里，这才发现这一点。

‘If you are not better by night I shall send for the doctor,’ Aunt Polly said.
“如果晚上你还没有好转，我就派人去请医生。”波莉姨妈说。

‘Shall you? Then I’m going to be worse,’ gurgled Pollyanna. ‘I’d love to have Dr. Chilton come to see me!’
‘你愿意吗？那我会变得更糟。”波莉安娜咯咯地说。 “我很想让奇尔顿医生来看我！”

She wondered, then, at the look that came to her aunt’s face.
然后，她对姨妈脸上的表情感到好奇。

‘It will not be Dr. Chilton, Pollyanna,’ Miss Polly said sternly. ‘Dr. Chilton is not our family physician. I shall send for Dr. Warren—if you are worse.’
“不会是奇尔顿医生，波莉安娜，”波莉小姐严厉地说。 ‘博士。奇尔顿不是我们的家庭医生。我会派人去找沃伦医生——如果你情况更糟的话。

Pollyanna did not grow worse, however, and Dr. Warren was not summoned.
然而，盲目乐观并没有变得更糟，沃伦医生也没有被传唤。

‘And I’m so glad, too,’ Pollyanna said to her aunt that evening. ‘Of course I like Dr. Warren, and all that; but I like Dr. Chilton better, and I’m afraid he’d feel hurt if I didn’t have him. You see, he wasn’t really to blame, after all, that he happened to see you when I’d dressed you up so pretty that day, Aunt Polly,’ she finished wistfully.
“我也很高兴，”波莉安娜那天晚上对她姑妈说。 “我当然喜欢沃伦博士，等等；但我更喜欢奇尔顿医生，我担心如果我没有他，他会感到受伤。你看，波莉阿姨，毕竟，那天我把你打扮得这么漂亮时，他碰巧看到了你，这并不能怪他，”她若有所思地说道。

‘That will do, Pollyanna. I really do not wish to discuss Dr. Chilton—or his feelings,’ reproved Miss Polly, decisively.
“那就行了，波丽安娜。”我真的不想讨论奇尔顿医生——或者他的感受。”波莉小姐果断地斥责道。

Pollyanna looked at her for a moment with mournfully interested eyes; then she sighed:
波莉安娜用悲伤而感兴趣的眼神看了她一会儿。然后她叹了口气：

‘I just love to see you when your cheeks are pink like that, Aunt Polly; but I would so like to fix your hair. If—Why, Aunt Polly!’ But her aunt was already out of sight down the hall.
“我就是喜欢看到你的脸颊像那样粉红，波莉阿姨；但我很想整理你的头发。如果——为什么，波莉姨妈！”但是她的姨妈已经消失在走廊那头了。

It was toward the end of August that Pollyanna, making an early morning call on John Pendleton, found the flaming band of blue and gold and green edged with red and violet lying across his pillow. She stopped short in awed delight.
八月底，波莉安娜一大早就去拜访约翰·彭德尔顿，发现他的枕头上放着一条蓝色、金色和绿色的、镶有红色和紫色边缘的火焰带。她因敬畏而高兴地停了下来。

‘Why, Mr. Pendleton, it’s a baby rainbow—a real rainbow come in to pay you a visit!’ she exclaimed, clapping her hands together softly. ‘Oh—oh—oh, how pretty it is! But how DID it get in?’ she cried.
“哎呀，彭德尔顿先生，这是一条小彩虹——一条真正的彩虹来拜访你了！”她大声拍着双手，大声说道。 ‘噢——噢——噢，多么漂亮啊！但它是怎么进来的呢？”她喊道。

The man laughed a little grimly: John Pendleton was particularly out of sorts with the world this morning.
那人笑得有点冷酷：约翰·彭德尔顿今天早上对这个世界特别不舒服。

‘Well, I suppose it ‘got in’ through the bevelled edge of that glass thermometer in the window,’ he said wearily. ‘The sun shouldn’t strike it at all but it does in the morning.’
“嗯，我想它是通过窗户上玻璃温度计的斜边‘进入’的，”他疲倦地说。 “太阳根本不应该照射到它，但早上它会照射到它。”

‘Oh, but it’s so pretty, Mr. Pendleton! And does just the sun do that? My! if it was mine I’d have it hang in the sun all day long!’
“哦，但是它太漂亮了，彭德尔顿先生！”只有太阳才能做到这一点吗？我的！如果是我的，我会把它整天挂在阳光下！”

‘Lots of good you’d get out of the thermometer, then,’ laughed the man. ‘How do you suppose you could tell how hot it was, or how cold it was, if the thermometer hung in the sun all day?’
“那么，你可以从温度计中得到很多好处，”那人笑道。 “如果温度计整天挂在阳光下，你认为你如何知道天气有多热或多冷？”

‘I shouldn’t care,’ breathed Pollyanna, her fascinated eyes on the brilliant band of colors across the pillow. ‘Just as if anybody’d care when they were living all the time in a rainbow!
“我不应该在意，”波莉安娜喘着气说，她着迷的眼睛盯着枕头上那条绚丽的彩带。 ‘就好像有人会关心他们一直生活在彩虹里一样！

The man laughed. He was watching Pollyanna’s rapt face a little curiously. Suddenly a new thought came to him. He touched the bell at his side.
男人笑了。他有点好奇地看着波莉安娜全神贯注的脸。突然，他有了一个新的想法。他摸了摸身边的铃。

‘Nora,’ he said, when the elderly maid appeared at the door, ‘bring me one of the big brass candle-sticks from the mantel in the front drawing-room.’
“诺拉，”当年长的女仆出现在门口时，他说道，“从前客厅的壁炉架上给我拿一根大黄铜烛台来。”

‘Yes, sir,’ murmured the woman, looking slightly dazed. In a minute she had returned. A musical tinkling entered the room with her as she advanced wonderingly toward the bed. It came from the prism pendants encircling the old-fashioned candelabrum in her hand.
“是的，先生。”女人低声说道，看上去有些茫然。一会儿她就回来了。当她惊奇地朝床边走去时，一阵音乐叮当作响进入了房间。声音来自她手中老式烛台周围的棱镜吊坠。

‘Thank you. You may set it here on the stand,’ directed the man. ‘Now get a string and fasten it to the sash-curtain fixtures of that window there. Take down the sash-curtain, and let the string reach straight across the window from side to side. That will be all. Thank you,’ he said, when she had carried out his directions.
'谢谢。你可以把它放在架子上，”那人指示道。 “现在拿一根绳子，把它固定在那个窗户的窗框固定装置上。取下窗扇，让绳子从一侧伸到另一侧，穿过窗户。仅此而已。谢谢你，”当她执行了他的指示后，他说道。

As she left the room he turned smiling eyes toward the wondering Pollyanna.
当她离开房间时，他把微笑的眼睛转向好奇的波莉安娜。

‘Bring me the candlestick now, please, Pollyanna.’
“现在请把烛台拿给我，波莉安娜。”

With both hands she brought it; and in a moment he was slipping off the pendants, one by one, until they lay, a round dozen of them, side by side, on the bed.
她用双手带来了它；不一会儿，他就把吊坠一个一个地取下来，直到它们并排躺在床上，十几个。

‘Now, my dear, suppose you take them and hook them to that little string Nora fixed across the window. If you really WANT to live in a rainbow—I don’t see but we’ll have to have a rainbow for you to live in!’
“现在，亲爱的，假设你把它们拿起来，把它们挂在诺拉固定在窗户上的那根小绳子上。如果你真的想生活在彩虹中——我不明白，但我们必须有一条彩虹让你生活在其中！

Pollyanna had not hung up three of the pendants in the sunlit window before she saw a little of what was going to happen. She was so excited then she could scarcely control her shaking fingers enough to hang up the rest. But at last her task was finished, and she stepped back with a low cry of delight.
波莉安娜还没把三个吊坠挂在阳光照射的窗户上，她就看到了即将发生的事情。她太兴奋了，几乎无法控制颤抖的手指，挂断了剩下的电话。但她的任务终于完成了，她低声高兴地叫了一声，向后退了一步。

It had become a fairyland—that sumptuous, but dreary bedroom. Everywhere were bits of dancing red and green, violet and orange, gold and blue. The wall, the floor, and the furniture, even to the bed itself, were aflame with shimmering bits of color.
它已经变成了一个仙境——那间华丽但沉闷的卧室。到处都是红色和绿色、紫色和橙色、金色和蓝色的舞蹈。墙壁、地板、家具，甚至床本身，都闪烁着闪烁的色彩。

‘Oh, oh, oh, how lovely!’ breathed Pollyanna; then she laughed suddenly. ‘I just reckon the sun himself is trying to play the game now, don’t you?’ she cried, forgetting for the moment that Mr. Pendleton could not know what she was talking about. ‘Oh, how I wish I had a lot of those things! How I would like to give them to Aunt Polly and Mrs. Snow and—lots of folks. I reckon THEN they’d be glad all right! Why, I think even Aunt Polly’d get so glad she couldn’t help banging doors if she lived in a rainbow like that. Don’t you?’
“哦，哦，哦，多可爱啊！”波莉安娜叹道。然后她突然笑了。 “我只是觉得太阳现在正想玩这个游戏，不是吗？”她喊道，一时忘记了彭德尔顿先生不知道她在说什么。 ‘哦，我多么希望我有很多这样的东西啊！我多么想把它们送给波莉阿姨和斯诺夫人以及——很多人。我想他们会很高兴的！哎呀，我想，如果波莉阿姨生活在那样的彩虹里，她也会情不自禁地敲门的。你不是吗？

Mr. Pendleton laughed.
彭德尔顿先生笑了。

‘Well, from my remembrance of your aunt, Miss Pollyanna, I must say I think it would take something more than a few prisms in the sunlight to—to make her bang many doors—for gladness. But come, now, really, what do you mean?’
“好吧，从我对你阿姨波莉安娜小姐的记忆来看，我必须说，我认为需要比阳光下的几个棱镜更多的东西才能让她敲开许多门以获得快乐。但是，现在，说真的，你是什么意思？

Pollyanna stared slightly; then she drew a long breath.
波莉安娜微微凝视。然后她长长地吸了一口气。

‘Oh, I forgot. You don’t know about the game. I remember now.’
‘哦，我忘了。你对游戏一无所知。我想起来了。'

‘Suppose you tell me, then.’
“那你告诉我吧。”

And this time Pollyanna told him. She told him the whole thing from the very first—from the crutches that should have been a doll. As she talked, she did not look at his face. Her rapt eyes were still on the dancing flecks of color from the prism pendants swaying in the sunlit window.
这次波莉安娜告诉了他。她从一开始就告诉了他整件事——从本应是一个洋娃娃的拐杖开始。说话的时候，她没有看他的脸。她全神贯注地注视着阳光照射下的窗户上摇曳的棱镜吊坠上舞动的色彩斑点。

‘And that’s all,’ she sighed, when she had finished. ‘And now you know why I said the sun was trying to play it—that game.’
“仅此而已，”说完后她叹了口气。 “现在你知道为什么我说太阳试图玩那个游戏了。”

For a moment there was silence. Then a low voice from the bed said unsteadily:
一时间寂静无声。这时，床上传来低沉的声音，语气不稳定：

‘Perhaps; but I’m thinking that the very finest prism of them all is yourself, Pollyanna.’
'也许;但我认为，其中最好的棱镜就是你自己，波莉安娜。”

‘Oh, but I don’t show beautiful red and green and purple when the sun shines through me, Mr. Pendleton!’
“哦，但是当阳光照射到我身上时，我并没有表现出美丽的红色、绿色和紫色，彭德尔顿先生！”

‘Don’t you?’ smiled the man. And Pollyanna, looking into his face, wondered why there were tears in his eyes.
“你不觉得吗？”男人微笑道。波莉安娜看着他的脸，想知道为什么他的眼里有泪水。

‘No,’ she said. Then, after a minute she added mournfully: ‘I’m afraid, Mr. Pendleton, the sun doesn’t make anything but freckles out of me. Aunt Polly says it DOES make them!
“不，”她说。过了一会儿，她悲伤地补充道：“恐怕，彭德尔顿先生，太阳除了让我长出雀斑之外什么也没有。”波莉阿姨说它确实可以制造它们！

The man laughed a little; and again Pollyanna looked at him: the laugh had sounded almost like a sob.
男人微微一笑；波莉安娜再次看着他：笑声听起来几乎像抽泣。

CHAPTER XIX. WHICH IS SOMEWHAT SURPRISING
第十九章。这有点令人惊讶

Pollyanna entered school in September. Preliminary examinations showed that she was well advanced for a girl of her years, and she was soon a happy member of a class of girls and boys her own age.
Pollyanna 于九月入学。初步检查表明，对于同龄女孩来说，她已经很优秀了，很快她就成为了同龄女孩和男孩班级中的快乐成员。

School, in some ways, was a surprise to Pollyanna; and Pollyanna, certainly, in many ways, was very much of a surprise to school. They were soon on the best of terms, however, and to her aunt Pollyanna confessed that going to school WAS living, after all—though she had had her doubts before.
从某些方面来说，学校对波莉安娜来说是一个惊喜。当然，波莉安娜在很多方面都给学校带来了很大的惊喜。然而，他们很快就关系融洽，波莉安娜姨妈向她承认，上学毕竟是一种生活——尽管她之前也曾有过怀疑。

In spite of her delight in her new work, Pollyanna did not forget her old friends. True, she could not give them quite so much time now, of course; but she gave them what time she could. Perhaps John Pendleton, of them all, however, was the most dissatisfied.
尽管波莉安娜对她的新工作很满意，但她并没有忘记她的老朋友。确实，当然，她现在不能给他们那么多时间。但她尽可能地给了他们时间。然而，也许约翰·彭德尔顿是他们当中最不满意的一个。

One Saturday afternoon he spoke to her about it.
一个星期六的下午，他和她谈起了这件事。

‘See here, Pollyanna, how would you like to come and live with me? he asked, a little impatiently. ‘I don’t see anything of you, nowadays.’
‘看这里，波莉安娜，你愿意来和我一起住吗？他有点不耐烦地问道。 “现在我什么也看不见你了。”

Pollyanna laughed—Mr. Pendleton was such a funny man!
波莉安娜笑了——先生。彭德尔顿真是个有趣的人！

‘I thought you didn’t like to have folks ‘round,’ she said.
“我以为你不喜欢有人在身边，”她说。

He made a wry face.
他做了个苦脸。

‘Oh, but that was before you taught me to play that wonderful game of yours. Now I’m glad to be waited on, hand and foot! Never mind, I’ll be on my own two feet yet, one of these days; then I’ll see who steps around,’ he finished, picking up one of the crutches at his side and shaking it playfully at the little girl. They were sitting in the great library to-day.
“哦，但那是在你教我玩你那精彩的游戏之前。现在我很高兴有人全心全意地伺候我！没关系，总有一天我会独立站立的。然后我看看谁走来走去。”他说完，拿起身边的一根拐杖，调皮地向小女孩摇晃。今天他们坐在大图书馆里。

‘Oh, but you aren’t really glad at all for things; you just SAY you are,’ pouted Pollyanna, her eyes on the dog, dozing before the fire. ‘You know you don’t play the game right EVER, Mr. Pendleton—you know you don’t!’
“哦，但是你对事情一点也不高兴；你只是说你是，”波莉安娜撅起嘴，她的眼睛看着那只在火堆前打瞌睡的狗。 “你知道你从来没有正确地玩游戏，彭德尔顿先生——你知道你没有！”

The man’s face grew suddenly very grave.
男人的脸色顿时变得十分凝重。

‘That’s why I want you, little girl—to help me play it. Will you come?’
“这就是为什么我需要你，小女孩——帮我弹奏它。你会来吗？'

Pollyanna turned in surprise.
波莉安娜惊讶地转过身来。

‘Mr. Pendleton, you don’t really mean—that?
'先生。彭德尔顿，你的意思不是——那个？

‘But I do. I want you. Will you come?’
'但是我愿意。我要你。你会来吗？'

Pollyanna looked distressed.
波莉安娜看上去很苦恼。

‘Why, Mr. Pendleton, I can’t—you know I can’t. Why, I’m—Aunt Polly’s!’
“为什么，彭德尔顿先生，我不能——你知道我不能。哎呀，我是——波莉姨妈的！

A quick something crossed the man’s face that Pollyanna could not quite understand. His head came up almost fiercely.
男人的脸上突然掠过某种波莉安娜不太明白的表情。他的头几乎猛地抬起来。

‘You’re no more hers than—Perhaps she would let you come to me,’ he finished more gently. ‘Would you come—if she did?’
“你不再是她的了——也许她会让你来找我，”他更温和地说。 “如果她来的话，你会来吗？”

Pollyanna frowned in deep thought.
波莉安娜皱起眉头陷入沉思。

‘But Aunt Polly has been so—good to me,’ she began slowly; ‘and she took me when I didn’t have anybody left but the Ladies’ Aid, and—‘
“但是波莉姨妈对我真是太好了，”她慢慢地说道。 “当我只剩下女士援助组织的时候，她就带走了我，而且——”

Again that spasm of something crossed the man’s face; but this time, when he spoke, his voice was low and very sad.
那人的脸上再次出现了某种痉挛。但这一次，他说话的时候，声音低沉，十分悲伤。

‘Pollyanna, long years ago I loved somebody very much. I hoped to bring her, some day, to this house. I pictured how happy we’d be together in our home all the long years to come.’
‘盲目乐观，很多年前我非常爱一个人。我希望有一天能带她来到这所房子。我想象着在未来的漫长岁月里，我们会在家里度过多么幸福的时光。

‘Yes,’ pitied Pollyanna, her eyes shining with sympathy.
“是的，”波莉安娜怜悯道，她的眼睛里闪烁着同情的光芒。

‘But—well, I didn’t bring her here. Never mind why. I just didn’t that’s all. And ever since then this great gray pile of stone has been a house—never a home. It takes a woman’s hand and heart, or a child’s presence, to make a home, Pollyanna; and I have not had either. Now will you come, my dear?’
“但是——好吧，我没有带她来这里。别管为什么。我只是没有，仅此而已。从那时起，这座巨大的灰色石头堆就成了一座房子——而不是一个家。波莉安娜，需要一个女人的手和心，或者一个孩子的存在，才能建立一个家；我也没有吃过。现在你愿意来吗，亲爱的？

Pollyanna sprang to her feet. Her face was fairly illumined.
波莉安娜跳了起来。她的脸容光焕发。

‘Mr. Pendleton, you—you mean that you wish you—you had had that woman’s hand and heart all this time?’
'先生。彭德尔顿，你——你的意思是你希望——你一直拥有那个女人的手和心？

‘Why, y-yes, Pollyanna.’
“为什么，是的，波丽安娜。”

‘Oh, I’m so glad! Then it’s all right,’ sighed the little girl. ‘Now you can take us both, and everything will be lovely.’
‘噢，我真高兴！那么就没事了。”小女孩叹了口气。 “现在你可以带上我们两个了，一切都会变得美好。”

‘Take—you—both?’ repeated the man, dazedly.
“把——你们——两个都带走？”那人茫然地重复道。

A faint doubt crossed Pollyanna’s countenance.
波莉安娜的脸上闪过一丝疑惑。

‘Well, of course, Aunt Polly isn’t won over, yet; but I’m sure she will be if you tell it to her just as you did to me, and then we’d both come, of course.’
“嗯，当然，波莉姨妈还没有被说服；但我相信，如果你像对我那样告诉她，她就会这么做，然后我们当然都会来。

A look of actual terror leaped to the man’s eyes.
男人眼中闪过一丝真正的恐惧。

‘Aunt Polly come—HERE!’
“波莉阿姨来——这里！”

Pollyanna’s eyes widened a little.
波莉安娜的眼睛睁大了一点。

‘Would you rather go THERE?’ she asked. Of course the house isn’t quite so pretty, but it’s nearer—‘
“你想去那里吗？”她问道。当然，房子不是那么漂亮，但它更接近——”

‘Pollyanna, what ARE you talking about?’ asked the man, very gently now.
“波莉安娜，你在说什么？”那个男人现在非常温柔地问道。

‘Why, about where we’re going to live, of course,’ rejoined Pollyanna, in obvious surprise. ‘I THOUGHT you meant here, at first. You said it was here that you had wanted Aunt Polly’s hand and heart all these years to make a home, and—‘
“当然是关于我们要住的地方，”波莉安娜回答道，显然很惊讶。 “一开始我以为你指的是这里。你说这些年来你一直想要波莉阿姨的手和心在这里建立一个家，而且——”

An inarticulate cry came from the man’s throat. He raised his hand and began to speak; but the next moment he dropped his hand nervelessly at his side.
男人的喉咙里发出一声含糊不清的哭声。他举起手开始讲话；但下一刻他却无力地将放在身侧的手垂了下来。

‘The doctor, sir,’ said the maid in the doorway.
“先生，是医生。”门口的女仆说道。

Pollyanna rose at once.
波莉安娜立刻站了起来。

John Pendleton turned to her feverishly.
约翰·彭德尔顿狂热地转向她。

‘Pollyanna, for Heaven’s sake, say nothing of what I asked you—yet,’ he begged, in a low voice. Pollyanna dimpled into a sunny smile.
“盲目乐观，看在老天的份上，别再说我问你的事——至少，”他低声恳求道。波莉安娜露出一个酒窝，露出阳光灿烂的笑容。

‘Of course not! Just as if I didn’t know you’d rather tell her yourself!’ she called back merrily over her shoulder.
'当然不是！就好像我不知道你宁愿自己告诉她一样！”她高兴地回头喊道。

John Pendleton fell limply back in his chair.
约翰·彭德尔顿无力地倒在椅子上。

‘Why, what’s up?’ demanded the doctor, a minute later, his fingers on his patient’s galloping pulse.
“为什么，怎么了？”一分钟后，医生问道，他的手指放在病人急速的脉搏上。

A whimsical smile trembled on John Pendleton’s lips.
约翰·彭德尔顿的嘴角颤抖着一丝异想天开的微笑。

‘Overdose of your—tonic, I guess,’ he laughed, as he noted the doctor’s eyes following Pollyanna’s little figure down the driveway.
“我想，你的补品服用过量了，”他笑道，同时他注意到医生的眼睛一直在追随车道上波莉安娜的小身影。

CHAPTER XX. WHICH IS MORE SURPRISING
第二十章。哪个更令人惊讶

Sunday mornings Pollyanna usually attended church and Sunday school. Sunday afternoons she frequently went for a walk with Nancy. She had planned one for the day after her Saturday afternoon visit to Mr. John Pendleton; but on the way home from Sunday school Dr. Chilton overtook her in his gig, and brought his horse to a stop.
周日早上波莉安娜通常去教堂和主日学校。周日下午她经常和南希一起去散步。她计划在周六下午拜访约翰·彭德尔顿先生后的第二天进行一次活动。但在从主日学校回家的路上，奇尔顿博士开着他的马车追上了她，并把他的马停了下来。

‘Suppose you let me drive you home, Pollyanna,’ he suggested. ‘I want to speak to you a minute. I, was just driving out to your place to tell you,’ he went on, as Pollyanna settled herself at his side. ‘Mr. Pendleton sent a special request for you to go to see him this afternoon, SURE. He says it’s very important.’
“波莉安娜，假设你让我开车送你回家，”他建议道。 “我想和你谈一分钟。我只是开车去你家告诉你，”他继续说道，波莉安娜坐在他身边。 '先生。彭德尔顿向您发出了特别请求，要求您今天下午去看他，当然。他说这非常重要。

Pollyanna nodded happily.
波莉安娜高兴地点点头。

‘Yes, it is, I know. I’ll go.’
“是的，是的，我知道。我会去。'

The doctor eyed her with some surprise.
医生有些惊讶地看着她。

‘I’m not sure I shall let you, after all,’ he declared, his eyes twinkling. ‘You seemed more upsetting than soothing yesterday, young lady.’
“毕竟，我不确定是否会让你这么做，”他说道，眼睛闪闪发光。 “年轻的女士，昨天你看起来更多的是令人不安而不是安慰。”

Pollyanna laughed.
波莉安娜笑了。

‘Oh, it wasn’t me, truly—not really, you know; not so much as it was Aunt Polly.’
“哦，那不是我，真的——不是真的，你知道；那是我的错。”与其说是波莉姨妈，不如说是波莉姨妈。

The doctor turned with a quick start.
医生猛地转过身来。

‘Your—aunt!’ he ejaculated.
“你的——姨妈！”他喊道。

Pollyanna gave a happy little bounce in her seat.
波莉安娜在座位上高兴地弹了一下。

‘Yes. And it’s so exciting and lovely, just like a story, you know. I—I’m going to tell you,’ she burst out, with sudden decision. He said not to mention it; but he wouldn’t mind your knowing, of course. He meant not to mention it to HER.’
'是的。它是如此令人兴奋和可爱，就像一个故事，你知道。我——我要告诉你，”她突然做出决定，大声说道。他说别提了；但他当然不会介意你知道。他不想对她提起这件事。

‘HER?’
'她？'

‘Yes; Aunt Polly. And, of course he WOULD want to tell her himself instead of having me do it—lovers, so!’
'是的;波莉阿姨。而且，他当然想亲自告诉她，而不是让我这么做——亲爱的，所以！

‘Lovers!’ As the doctor said the word, the horse started violently, as if the hand that held the reins had given them a sharp jerk.
“恋人！”当医生说出这个词时，马猛烈地惊动起来，仿佛握着缰绳的那只手猛地一拉他们。

‘Yes,’ nodded Pollyanna, happily. ‘That’s the story-part, you see. I didn’t know it till Nancy told me. She said Aunt Polly had a lover years ago, and they quarrelled. She didn’t know who it was at first. But we’ve found out now. It’s Mr. Pendleton, you know.’
“是的，”波莉安娜高兴地点点头。 “这就是故事的一部分，你看。直到南希告诉我，我才知道。她说波莉阿姨几年前有过一个情人，他们吵架了。她一开始并不知道那人是谁。但我们现在已经发现了。你知道，这是彭德尔顿先生。

The doctor relaxed suddenly, The hand holding the reins fell limply to his lap.
医生突然放松下来，握着缰绳的手无力地落在了他的腿上。

‘Oh! No; I—didn’t know,’ he said quietly.
'哦！不;我——不知道，”他平静地说。

Pollyanna hurried on—they were nearing the Harrington homestead.
波莉安娜快步前行——他们已经快到哈林顿庄园了。

‘Yes; and I’m so glad now. It’s come out lovely. Mr. Pendleton asked me to come and live with him, but of course I wouldn’t leave Aunt Polly like that—after she’d been so good to me. Then he told me all about the woman’s hand and heart that he used to want, and I found out that he wanted it now; and I was so glad! For of course if he wants to make up the quarrel, everything will be all right now, and Aunt Polly and I will both go to live there, or else he’ll come to live with us. Of course Aunt Polly doesn’t know yet, and we haven’t got everything settled; so I suppose that is why he wanted to see me this afternoon, sure.’
'是的;我现在很高兴。结果很可爱。彭德尔顿先生邀请我来和他住在一起，但我当然不会就这样离开波莉阿姨——毕竟她对我这么好。然后他告诉我他曾经想要的那个女人的手和心，我发现他现在想要它；我很高兴！当然，如果他想和解的话，现在一切就都好了，我和波莉阿姨都会去那里住，否则他就会来和我们住在一起。当然，波莉阿姨还不知道，而且我们还没有把一切都搞定；所以我想这就是他今天下午想见我的原因，当然。”

The doctor sat suddenly erect. There was an odd smile on his lips.
医生突然坐直了身体。他的嘴角挂着一抹奇怪的微笑。

‘Yes; I can well imagine that Mr. John Pendleton does—want to see you, Pollyanna,’ he nodded, as he pulled his horse to a stop before the door.
'是的;我完全可以想象约翰·彭德尔顿先生确实想见你，波莉安娜。”他点点头，拉着马在门前停了下来。

‘There’s Aunt Polly now in the window,’ cried Pollyanna; then, a second later: ‘Why, no, she isn’t—but I thought I saw her!’
“波莉姨妈现在在窗子里，”波莉安娜喊道。然后，一秒钟后：“为什么，不，她没有——但我以为我看到了她！”

‘No; she isn’t there—now,’ said the doctor, His lips had suddenly lost their smile.
'不;她不在那儿——现在，”医生说道，他的嘴唇突然失去了笑容。

Pollyanna found a very nervous John Pendleton waiting for her that afternoon.
那天下午，波莉安娜发现约翰·彭德尔顿非常紧张地在等她。

‘Pollyanna,’ he began at once. ‘I’ve been trying all night to puzzle out what you meant by all that, yesterday—about my wanting your Aunt Polly’s hand and heart here all those years. What did you mean?’
“盲目乐观，”他立刻开始说道。 “我整晚都在试图弄清楚你昨天说的这一切是什么意思——这些年来我一直想要你波莉姨妈的手和心在这里。你什么意思？'

‘Why, because you were lovers, you know once; and I was so glad you still felt that way now.’
‘为什么，因为你们是恋人，你曾经知道；我很高兴你现在仍然有这种感觉。”

‘Lovers!—your Aunt Polly and I?’
“恋人！——我和你的波莉姨妈？”

At the obvious surprise in the man’s voice, Pollyanna opened wide her eyes.’
听到这个男人声音中明显的惊讶，波莉安娜睁大了眼睛。

‘Why, Mr. Pendleton, Nancy said you were!’
“为什么，彭德尔顿先生，南希说你是！”

The man gave a short little laugh.
男人短促地笑了一声。

‘Indeed! Well, I’m afraid I shall have to say that Nancy—didn’t know.’
'的确！好吧，恐怕我不得不说南希——不知道。

‘Then you—weren’t lovers? Pollyanna’s Voice was tragic with dismay.
‘那你们——不是恋人吗？波莉安娜的声音充满悲伤和沮丧。

‘Never!’
'绝不！'

‘And it ISN’T all coming out like a book?’
“这一切不都是像一本书一样出版的吗？”

There was no answer. The man’s eyes were moodily fixed out the window.
没有人回答。男人的目光阴郁地盯着窗外。

‘O dear! And it was all going so splendidly,’ almost sobbed Pollyanna. ‘I’d have been so glad to come—with Aunt Polly.’
‘哦，亲爱的！一切都进行得很顺利。”波莉安娜几乎抽泣着说道。 “我很高兴能和波莉阿姨一起来。”

‘And you won’t—now?’ The man asked the question without turning his head.
“那你现在就不肯了吗？”男人头也不回地问道。

‘Of course not! I’m Aunt Polly’s.’
'当然不是！我是波莉阿姨的。

The man turned now, almost fiercely.
男人转过身来，几乎是猛烈的。

‘Before you were hers, Pollyanna, you were—your mother’s. And—it was your mother’s hand and heart that I wanted long years ago.’
“波莉安娜，在你属于她之前，你是——你母亲的。”而且——多年前我就想要你母亲的手和心。”

‘My mother’s!’
'我母亲的！'

‘Yes. I had not meant to tell you, but perhaps it’s better, after all, that I do—now.’ John Pendleton’s face had grown very white. He was speaking with evident difficulty. Pollyanna, her eyes wide and frightened, and her lips parted, was gazing at him fixedly. ‘I loved your mother; but she—didn’t love me. And after a time she went away with—your father. I did not know until then how much I did—care. The whole world suddenly seemed to turn black under my fingers, and—But, never mind. For long years I have been a cross, crabbed, unlovable, unloved old man—though I’m not nearly sixty, yet, Pollyanna. Then, One day, like one of the prisms that you love so well, little girl, you danced into my life, and flecked my dreary old world with dashes of the purple and gold and scarlet of your own bright cheeriness. I found out, after a time, who you were, and—and I thought then I never wanted to see you again. I didn’t want to be reminded of—your mother. But—you know how that came out. I just had to have you come. And now I want you always. Pollyanna, won’t you come NOW?’
'是的。我本来不想告诉你的，但也许现在告诉你会更好。”约翰·彭德尔顿的脸色变得非常苍白。他说话显然很困难。波莉安娜睁大了眼睛，充满恐惧，嘴唇张开，目不转睛地盯着他。 “我爱你的母亲；但她——不爱我。过了一段时间，她就和——你的父亲一起走了。直到那时我才知道我有多关心。整个世界似乎在我的手指下突然变黑了，而且——不过，没关系。多年来，我一直是一个脾气暴躁、脾气暴躁、不可爱、不被爱的老人——尽管我还不到六十岁，波莉安娜。然后，有一天，小女孩，就像你深爱的棱镜之一，你舞进了我的生活，用你自己明亮的快乐的紫色、金色和猩红色点缀着我沉闷的旧世界。一段时间后，我发现了你是谁，然后——然后我想我再也不想见到你了。我不想让别人想起——你的母亲。但是——你知道这是怎么出来的。我只是想让你来。现在我永远想要你。波莉安娜，你现在不来吗？

‘But, Mr. Pendleton, I—There’s Aunt Polly!’ Pollyanna’s eyes were blurred with tears.
“但是，彭德尔顿先生，我——那是波莉阿姨！” 波莉安娜的眼睛因泪水而模糊。

The man made an impatient gesture.
男人做出了一个不耐烦的手势。

‘What about me? How do you suppose I’m going to be ‘glad’ about anything—without you? Why, Pollyanna, it’s only since you came that I’ve been even half glad to live! But if I had you for my own little girl, I’d be glad for—anything; and I’d try to make you glad, too, my dear. You shouldn’t have a wish ungratified. All my money, to the last cent, should go to make you happy.’
'关于我的什么？你认为如果没有你，我会对任何事情感到“高兴”吗？哎呀，波丽安娜，自从你来了之后，我才对生活感到有点高兴！但如果我拥有你作为我自己的小女儿，我会很高兴——任何事情；我也会尽力让你高兴，亲爱的。你不应该有未实现的愿望。我所有的钱，哪怕最后一分钱，都应该用来让你快乐。”

Pollyanna looked shocked.
波莉安娜看上去很震惊。

‘Why, Mr. Pendleton, as if I’d let you spend it on me—all that money you’ve saved for the heathen!’
“哎呀，彭德尔顿先生，好像我会让你把钱花在我身上一样——你为异教徒存下的所有钱！”

A dull red came to the man’s face. He started to speak, but Pollyanna was still talking.
男人的脸上浮现出暗红色。他开始说话，但波莉安娜还在说话。

‘Besides, anybody with such a lot of money as you have doesn’t need me to make you glad about things. You’re making other folks so glad giving them things that you just can’t help being glad yourself! Why, look at those prisms you gave Mrs. Snow and me, and the gold piece you gave Nancy on her birthday, and—‘
“此外，像你这样有钱的人不需要我让你高兴。你让别人很高兴给他们一些东西，你自己也情不自禁地感到高兴！哎呀，看看你送给斯诺夫人和我的棱镜，还有你在南希生日时送给她的金币，还有——”

‘Yes, yes—never mind about all that,’ interrupted the man. His face was very, very red now—and no wonder, perhaps: it was not for ‘giving things’ that John Pendleton had been best known in the past. ‘That’s all nonsense. ‘Twasn’t much, anyhow—but what there was, was because of you. YOU gave those things; not I! Yes, you did,’ he repeated, in answer to the shocked denial in her face. ‘And that only goes to prove all the more how I need you, little girl,’ he added, his voice softening into tender pleading once more. ‘If ever, ever I am to play the ‘glad game,’ Pollyanna, you’ll have to come and play it with me.’
“是的，是的——别介意这些，”那人打断道。他的脸现在非常非常红——也许这并不奇怪：约翰·彭德尔顿过去最出名的并不是因为“给予东西”。 ‘那都是废话。 “无论如何，这并不多——但之所以有，是因为你。”你给了那些东西；不是我！是的，你做到了，”他重复道，回应她脸上震惊的否认。 “这只会更加证明我多么需要你，小女孩，”他补充道，他的声音再次变得温柔而恳求。 “如果我要玩‘快乐游戏’，波莉安娜，你就必须来和我一起玩。”

The little girl’s forehead puckered into a wistful frown.
小女孩的额头皱起，充满渴望。

‘Aunt Polly has been so good to me,’ she began; but the man interrupted her sharply. The old irritability had come back to his face. Impatience which would brook no opposition had been a part of John Pendleton’s nature too long to yield very easily now to restraint.
“波莉阿姨对我太好了，”她说道。但男人厉声打断了她。昔日的烦躁又回到了他的脸上。约翰·彭德尔顿的性格中，急躁、不容反抗的性格由来已久，现在已经无法轻易克制了。

‘Of course she’s been good to you! But she doesn’t want you, I’ll warrant, half so much as I do,’ he contested.
“当然是她对你好啦！但我保证，她不想要你，只想要你一半，”他争辩道。

‘Why, Mr. Pendleton, she’s glad, I know, to have—‘
“为什么，彭德尔顿先生，我知道她很高兴——”

‘Glad!’ interrupted the man, thoroughly losing his patience now. ‘I’ll wager Miss Polly doesn’t know how to be glad—for anything! Oh, she does her duty, I know. She’s a very DUTIFUL woman. I’ve had experience with her ‘duty,’ before. I’ll acknowledge we haven’t been the best of friends for the last fifteen or twenty years. But I know her. Every one knows her—and she isn’t the ‘glad’ kind, Pollyanna. She doesn’t know how to be. As for your coming to me—you just ask her and see if she won’t let you come. And, oh, little girl, little girl, I want you so!’ he finished brokenly.
“太高兴了！”男人打断道，他现在彻底失去了耐心。 “我敢打赌波莉小姐不知道如何高兴——无论什么事情！”哦，她尽了自己的职责，我知道。她是一个非常尽职的女人。我以前曾体验过她的“职责”。我承认在过去的十五年或二十年里我们并不是最好的朋友。但我认识她。每个人都认识她——她不是那种“快乐”的人，盲目乐观。她不知道该怎么办。至于你要来找我吗——你问她，看她不让你来就行了。而且，哦，小女孩，小女孩，我就是这么想要你！”他断断续续地说完。

Pollyanna rose to her feet with a long sigh.
波莉安娜长长地叹了一口气，站了起来。

‘All right. I’ll ask her,’ she said wistfully. ‘Of course I don’t mean that I wouldn’t like to live here with you, Mr. Pendleton, but—‘ She did not complete her sentence. There was a moment’s silence, then she added: ‘Well, anyhow, I’m glad I didn’t tell her yesterday;—‘cause then I supposed SHE was wanted, too.’
'好的。我会问她的。”她若有所思地说。 “当然，我并不是说我不想和你一起住在这里，彭德尔顿先生，但是——”她没有把话说完。沉默了一会儿，然后她补充道：“好吧，无论如何，我很高兴昨天没有告诉她——因为那时我想她也被通缉了。”

John Pendleton smiled grimly.
约翰·彭德尔顿冷酷地笑了笑。

‘Well, yes, Pollyanna; I guess it is just as well you didn’t mention it—yesterday.’
“嗯，是的，乐观主义者；我想你昨天没有提到这件事就好了。

‘I didn’t—only to the doctor; and of course he doesn’t count.’
“我没有——只是对医生说的；”当然他不算数。

‘The doctor!’ cried John Pendleton, turning quickly. ‘Not—Dr.—Chilton?’
“医生！”约翰·彭德尔顿喊道，迅速转过身来。 “不是——奇尔顿博士？”

‘Yes; when he came to tell me you wanted to see me to-day, you know.’
'是的;当他来告诉我你今天想见我时，你知道。

‘Well, of all the—‘ muttered the man, falling back in his chair. Then he sat up with sudden interest. ‘And what did Dr. Chilton say?’ he asked.
“好吧，最重要的是——”男人低声说道，向后靠在椅子上。然后他突然感兴趣地坐了起来。 “奇尔顿医生怎么说？”他问道。

Pollyanna frowned thoughtfully.
波莉安娜皱起眉头若有所思。

‘Why, I don’t remember. Not much, I reckon. Oh, he did say he could well imagine you did want to see me.’
‘为什么，我不记得了。我认为不多。哦，他确实说过他很能想象你确实想见我。

‘Oh, did he, indeed!’ answered John Pendleton. And Pollyanna wondered why he gave that sudden queer little laugh.
“哦，确实是这样！”约翰·彭德尔顿回答道。波莉安娜想知道他为什么突然发出那种奇怪的小笑声。

CHAPTER XXI. A QUESTION ANSWERED
第二十一章。一个问题得到解答

The sky was darkening fast with what appeared to be an approaching thunder shower when Pollyanna hurried down the hill from John Pendleton’s house. Half-way home she met Nancy with an umbrella. By that time, however, the clouds had shifted their position and the shower was not so imminent.
当波莉安娜从约翰·彭德尔顿家匆匆跑下山时，天空很快就变暗了，雷阵雨似乎即将来临。回家的半路上，她遇见了撑着雨伞的南希。然而，到那时，云层已经转移了位置，阵雨并没有那么迫在眉睫。

‘Guess it’s goin’ ‘round ter the north,’ announced Nancy, eyeing the sky critically. I thought ‘twas, all the time, but Miss Polly wanted me ter come with this. She was WORRIED about ye!’
“猜猜它正在向北飞行”，南希用挑剔的目光注视着天​​空说道。我一直以为是的，但波莉小姐希望我带着这个来。她很担心你！

‘Was she?’ murmured Pollyanna abstractedly, eyeing the clouds in her turn.
“是吗？”波莉安娜心不在焉地低声说道，她也看着云彩。

Nancy sniffed a little.
南希吸了吸鼻子。

‘You don’t seem ter notice what I said,’ she observed aggrievedly. ‘I said yer aunt was WORRIED about ye!’
“你似乎没有注意到我说的话，”她委屈地说道。 “我说你姨妈很担心你！”

‘Oh,’ sighed Pollyanna, remembering suddenly the question she was so soon to ask her aunt. ‘I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to scare her.’
“哦，”波莉安娜叹了口气，突然想起她这么快就问姨妈的问题。 '对不起。我不是故意吓唬她的。

‘Well, I’m glad,’ retorted Nancy, unexpectedly. ‘I am, I am.’
“嗯，我很高兴，”南希出人意料地反驳道。 “我是，我是。”

Pollyanna stared.
波莉安娜凝视着。

‘GLAD that Aunt Polly was scared about me! Why, Nancy, THAT isn’t the way to play the game—to be glad for things like that!’ she objected.
“很高兴波莉阿姨害怕我！”为什么，南希，这不是玩游戏的方式——为这样的事情感到高兴！”她反对道。

‘There wa’n’t no game in it,’ retorted Nancy. ‘Never thought of it. YOU don’t seem ter sense what it means ter have Miss Polly WORRIED about ye, child!’
“里面没有任何游戏，”南希反驳道。 ‘从来没想过。你似乎不明白波莉小姐为你担心意味着什么，孩子！

‘Why, it means worried—and worried is horrid—to feel,’ maintained Pollyanna. ‘What else can it mean?’
“为什么，这意味着担心——而担心是可怕的——感觉，”波莉安娜坚持道。 “这还能意味着什么？”

Nancy tossed her head.
南希摇摇头。

‘Well, I’ll tell ye what it means. It means she’s at last gettin’ down somewheres near human—like folks; an’ that she ain’t jest doin’ her duty by ye all the time.’
‘好吧，我来告诉你这意味着什么。这意味着她终于接近人类了——就像人们一样； “她并不是一直在开玩笑，对你们履行她的职责。”

‘Why, Nancy,’ demurred the scandalized Pollyanna, ‘Aunt Polly always does her duty. She—she’s a very dutiful woman!’ Unconsciously Pollyanna repeated John Pendleton’s words of half an hour before.
“为什么，南希，”波莉安娜感到震惊，反驳道，“波莉姨妈总是尽她的职责。”她——她是一个非常孝顺的女人！”波莉安娜不自觉地重复了约翰·彭德尔顿半小时前的话。

Nancy chuckled.
南希咯咯笑起来。

‘You’re right she is—and she always was, I guess! But she’s somethin’ more, now, since you came.’
“你说得对，她是——我想她一直都是！”但自从你来了之后，她就变得更加重要了。”

Pollyanna’s face changed. Her brows drew into a troubled frown.
波莉安娜的脸色变了。她的眉头因烦恼而皱起。

‘There, that’s what I was going to ask you, Nancy,’ she sighed. ‘Do you think Aunt Polly likes to have me here? Would she mind—if if I wasn’t here any more?’
“这就是我要问你的问题，南希，”她叹了口气。 “你认为波莉阿姨喜欢我在这里吗？”如果我不再在这里，她会介意吗？

Nancy threw a quick look into the little girl’s absorbed face. She had expected to be asked this question long before, and she had dreaded it. She had wondered how she should answer it—how she could answer it honestly without cruelly hurting the questioner. But now, NOW, in the face of the new suspicions that had become convictions by the afternoon’s umbrella-sending—Nancy only welcomed the question with open arms. She was sure that, with a clean conscience to-day, she could set the love-hungry little girl’s heart at rest.
南希快速地看了一眼小女孩全神贯注的脸。她早就料到会被问到这个问题，但她却害怕了。她想知道自己应该如何回答——如何才能诚实地回答而不残忍地伤害提问者。但现在，现在，面对新的怀疑，而这些怀疑已经因下午的送伞而变成了信念——南希只是张开双臂欢迎这个问题。她确信，今天问心无愧，就能让这个渴望爱情的小女孩的心得到安宁。

‘Likes ter have ye here? Would she miss ye if ye wa’n’t here?’ cried Nancy, indignantly. ‘As if that wa’n’t jest what I was tellin’ of ye! Didn’t she send me posthaste with an umbrella ‘cause she see a little cloud in the sky? Didn’t she make me tote yer things all down-stairs, so you could have the pretty room you wanted? Why, Miss Pollyanna, when ye remember how at first she hated ter have—‘
‘你喜欢这里吗？如果你不在这里，她会想念你吗？”南希愤怒地喊道。 ‘好像我对你们说的话不是开玩笑！她不是因为看到天上有一点云而急忙送我一把雨伞吗？她不是让我把你的东西都搬到楼下，这样你就可以拥有你想要的漂亮房间了吗？为什么，波莉安娜小姐，当你记得她一开始是多么讨厌——”

With a choking cough Nancy pulled herself up just in time.
南希咳嗽一声，及时站了起来。

‘And it ain’t jest things I can put my fingers on, neither,’ rushed on Nancy, breathlessly. ‘It’s little ways she has, that shows how you’ve been softenin’ her up an’ mellerin’ her down—the cat, and the dog, and the way she speaks ter me, and oh, lots o’ things. Why, Miss Pollyanna, there ain’t no tellin’ how she’d miss ye—if ye wa’n’t here,’ finished Nancy, speaking with an enthusiastic certainty that was meant to hide the perilous admission she had almost made before. Even then she was not quite prepared for the sudden joy that illumined Pollyanna’s face.
“这也不是我能用手指触摸的玩笑，”气喘吁吁地冲向南希。 “她有一些小方法，这表明你如何软化她，软化她——猫，狗，还有她对我说话的方式，哦，还有很多事情。”为什么，波莉安娜小姐，如果你不在这里，她说不准她会如何想念你。”南希用热情的肯定语气结束了这句话，这是为了掩盖她之前差点做出的危险的承认。 。即便如此，她还没有完全准备好迎接波莉安娜脸上突然焕发的喜悦。

‘Oh, Nancy, I’m so glad—glad—glad! You don’t know how glad I am that Aunt Polly—wants me!’
“哦，南希，我很高兴——很高兴——很高兴！你不知道我有多高兴波莉姨妈想要我！

‘As if I’d leave her now!’ thought Pollyanna, as she climbed the stairs to her room a little later. ‘I always knew I wanted to live with Aunt Polly—but I reckon maybe I didn’t know quite how much I wanted Aunt Polly—to want to live with ME!’
“好像我现在就要离开她一样！”波莉安娜想道，稍后她爬上楼梯回到自己的房间。 “我一直都知道我想和波莉阿姨住在一起——但我想也许我不太清楚我有多想要波莉阿姨——想和我住在一起！”

The task of telling John Pendleton of her decision would not be an easy one, Pollyanna knew, and she dreaded it. She was very fond of John Pendleton, and she was very sorry for him—because he seemed to be so sorry for himself. She was sorry, too, for the long, lonely life that had made him so unhappy; and she was grieved that it had been because of her mother that he had spent those dreary years. She pictured the great gray house as it would be after its master was well again, with its silent rooms, its littered floors, its disordered desk; and her heart ached for his loneliness. She wished that somewhere, some one might be found who—And it was at this point that she sprang to her feet with a little cry of joy at the thought that had come to her.
波莉安娜知道，将她的决定告诉约翰·彭德尔顿并不是一件容易的事，而且她对此感到害怕。她非常喜欢约翰·彭德尔顿，她也为他感到难过——因为他似乎很为自己难过。她也为他漫长而孤独的生活让他如此不快乐而感到遗憾。她很伤心，因为她的母亲，他才度过了那些沉闷的岁月。她想象着这座巨大的灰色房子，主人康复后的样子，里面有寂静的房间，散落一地的地板，凌乱的桌子；她的心因他的孤独而痛苦。她希望在某个地方，能找到一个人——就在这时，她一想到这个想法，就跳了起来，发出一声喜悦的叫声。

As soon as she could, after that, she hurried up the hill to John Pendleton’s house; and in due time she found herself in the great dim library, with John Pendleton himself sitting near her, his long, thin hands lying idle on the arms of his chair, and his faithful little dog at his feet.
之后，她一有时间就匆匆上山，来到约翰·彭德尔顿的家。到了适当的时候，她发现自己来到了昏暗的大图书馆里，约翰·彭德尔顿本人坐在她旁边，他修长而瘦弱的双手闲置在椅子扶手上，他忠实的小狗在他脚边。

Well, Pollyanna, is it to be the ‘glad game’ with me, all the rest of my life?’ asked the man, gently.
好吧，波莉安娜，这就是我余生的‘快乐游戏’吗？”男人温柔地问道。

‘Oh, yes,’ cried Pollyanna. ‘I’ve thought of the very gladdest kind of a thing for you to do, and—‘
“哦，是的，”波莉安娜喊道。 “我想到了最值得你做的一件事，而且——”

‘With—YOU?’ asked John Pendleton, his mouth growing a little stern at the corners.
“和——你？”约翰·彭德尔顿问道，他的嘴角变得有些严厉。

‘N-no; but—‘
‘不-不；但-'

‘Pollyanna, you aren’t going to say no!’ interrupted a voice deep with emotion.
“盲目乐观，你不会拒绝的！”一个深情的声音打断了他。

‘I—I’ve got to, Mr. Pendleton; truly I have. Aunt Polly—‘
“我——我必须这么做，彭德尔顿先生；我确实有。波莉姨妈——”

‘Did she REFUSE—to let you—come?
“她拒绝——让你——来吗？”

‘I—I didn’t ask her,’ stammered the little girl, miserably.
“我——我没有问她。”小女孩结结巴巴地说道。

‘Pollyanna!’
“盲目乐观！”

Pollyanna turned away her eyes. She could not meet the hurt, grieved gaze of her friend.
波莉安娜转开眼睛。她无法直视朋友受伤、悲伤的目光。

‘So you didn’t even ask her!’
“所以你根本就没有问过她！”

‘I couldn’t, sir—truly,’ faltered Pollyanna. ‘You see, I found out—without asking. Aunt Polly WANTS me with her, and—and I want to stay, too,’ she confessed bravely. ‘You don’t know how good she’s been to me; and—and I think, really, sometimes she’s beginning to be glad about things—lots of things. And you know she never used to be. You said it yourself. Oh, Mr. Pendleton, I COULDN’T leave Aunt Polly—now!’
“我不能，先生——真的，”波莉安娜结结巴巴地说。 “你瞧，我没问就知道了。波莉阿姨希望我和她在一起，而且——我也想留下来，”她勇敢地承认。 “你不知道她对我有多好；而且——我认为，真的，有时她开始对很多事情感到高兴。你知道她以前从来都不是。你自己也说了。哦，彭德尔顿先生，我不能离开波莉阿姨——现在！

There was a long pause. Only the snapping of the wood fire in the grate broke the silence. At last, however, the man spoke.
出现了长时间的停顿。只有炉栅里柴火的噼啪声打破了寂静。然而，男人终于开口了。

‘No, Pollyanna; I see. You couldn’t leave her—now,’ he said. ‘I won’t ask you—again.’ The last word was so low it was almost inaudible; but Pollyanna heard.
“不，波莉安娜；我懂了。你不能离开她——现在，”他说。 “我不会再问你了。”最后一个字的声音很低，几乎听不见。但波莉安娜听到了。

‘Oh, but you don’t know about the rest of it,’ she reminded him eagerly. ‘There’s the very gladdest thing you CAN do—truly there is!’
“哦，但你不知道其余的事情，”她急切地提醒他。 “这是你能做的最高兴的事情——真的有！”

‘Not for me, Pollyanna.’
“不适合我，波丽安娜。”

‘Yes, sir, for you. You SAID it. You said only a—a woman’s hand and heart or a child’s presence could make a home. And I can get it for you—a child’s presence;—not me, you know, but another one.’
“是的，先生，为了你。”你说的。你说过只有一个女人的手和心或者一个孩子的存在才能组建一个家。我可以为你得到它——一个孩子的存在；——不是我，你知道，而是另一个孩子。

‘As if I would have any but you!’ resented an indignant voice.
“好像除了你我什么都可以！”一个愤怒的声音说道。

‘But you will—when you know; you’re so kind and good! Why, think of the prisms and the gold pieces, and all that money you save for the heathen, and—‘
“但你会的——当你知道的时候；你真是太好了！哎呀，想想棱镜和金币，还有你为异教徒存下的所有钱，还有——”

‘Pollyanna!’ interrupted the man, savagely. ‘Once for all let us end that nonsense! I’ve tried to tell you half a dozen times before. There is no money for the heathen. I never sent a penny to them in my life. There!’
“盲目乐观！”那人粗暴地打断道。 ‘让我们彻底结束这种废话吧！我之前已经尝试告诉你六次了。异教徒没有钱。我这辈子从来没有给他们寄过一分钱。那里！'

He lifted his chin and braced himself to meet what he expected—the grieved disappointment of Pollyanna’s eyes. To his amazement, however, there was neither grief nor disappointment in Pollyanna’s eyes. There was only surprised joy.
他抬起下巴，准备迎接他所期待的——波莉安娜眼中悲伤而失望的目光。然而令他惊讶的是，波莉安娜的眼中既没有悲伤，也没有失望。心里只有惊讶的喜悦。

‘Oh, oh!’ she cried, clapping her hands. ‘I’m so glad! That is,’ she corrected, coloring distressfully, ‘I don’t mean that I’m not sorry for the heathen, only just now I can’t help being glad that you don’t want the little India boys, because all the rest have wanted them. And so I’m glad you’d rather have Jimmy Bean. Now I know you’ll take him!’
“噢，噢！”她拍着手叫道。 '我很高兴！也就是说，”她脸色痛苦地纠正道，“我并不是说我不为异教徒感到难过，只是现在我不禁感到高兴，因为你不想要印度小男孩，因为所有的其余的都想要它们。所以我很高兴你愿意选择吉米·比恩。现在我知道你会带走他！

‘Take—WHO?’
“带——谁？”

‘Jimmy Bean. He’s the ‘child’s presence,’ you know; and he’ll be so glad to be it. I had to tell him last week that even my Ladies’ Aid out West wouldn’t take him, and he was so disappointed. But now—when he hears of this—he’ll be so glad!’
‘吉米·比恩。你知道，他是“孩子的存在”；他会很高兴成为这样的人。上周我不得不告诉他，即使是我的西部妇女援助组织也不会接受他，他非常失望。但现在——当他听到这个消息时——他会非常高兴！”

‘Will he? Well, I won’t,’ ejaculated the man, decisively. ‘Pollyanna, this is sheer nonsense!’
'他会吗？好吧，我不会，”男人果断地说。 “盲目乐观，这纯粹是胡说八道！”

‘You don’t mean—you won’t take him?’
“你的意思是——你不带他走？”

‘I certainly do mean just that.’
“我确实就是这个意思。”

‘But he’d be a lovely child’s presence,’ faltered Pollyanna. She was almost crying now. ‘And you COULDN’T be lonesome—with Jimmy ‘round.’
“但他会是一个可爱的孩子的存在，”波莉安娜结结巴巴地说。她现在几乎要哭了。 “有吉米在身边，你就不会感到孤独。”

‘I don’t doubt it,’ rejoined the man; ‘but—I think I prefer the lonesomeness.’
“我不怀疑，”那人回答道。 “但是——我想我更喜欢孤独。”

It was then that Pollyanna, for the first time in weeks, suddenly remembered something Nancy had once told her. She raised her chin aggrievedly.
就在那时，波莉安娜几周来第一次突然想起南希曾经告诉过她的一些事情。她委屈地抬起下巴。

‘Maybe you think a nice live little boy wouldn’t be better than that old dead skeleton you keep somewhere; but I think it would!’
“也许你认为一个活生生的好小男孩不会比你放在某处的那具老死骷髅更好；但我认为会的！

‘SKELETON?’
'骨骼？'

‘Yes. Nancy said you had one in your closet, somewhere.’
'是的。南希说你的衣柜里某处有一个。

‘Why, what—‘ Suddenly the man threw back his head and laughed. He laughed very heartily indeed—so heartily that Pollyanna began to cry from pure nervousness. When he saw that, John Pendleton sat erect very promptly. His face grew grave at once.
“为什么，什么——”男人突然仰起头笑了起来。他确实笑得非常开心——开心得波莉安娜因为纯粹的紧张而哭了起来。约翰·彭德尔顿看到这一幕，立刻坐直了身子。他的脸色立刻变得严肃起来。

‘Pollyanna, I suspect you are right—more right than you know,’ he said gently. ‘In fact, I KNOW that a ‘nice live little boy’ would be far better than—my skeleton in the closet; only—we aren’t always willing to make the exchange. We are apt to still cling to—our skeletons, Pollyanna. However, suppose you tell me a little more about this nice little boy.’ And Pollyanna told him.
“盲目乐观，我怀疑你是对的——比你想象的更正确，”他温和地说。 “事实上，我知道一个‘活生生的好小男孩’会比——我柜子里的骷髅好得多；”只是——我们并不总是愿意进行交换。我们很容易仍然坚持我们的骨骼，盲目乐观。不过，假设你能告诉我更多关于这个好小男孩的事。”波莉安娜告诉他。

Perhaps the laugh cleared the air; or perhaps the pathos of Jimmy Bean’s story as told by Pollyanna’s eager little lips touched a heart already strangely softened. At all events, when Pollyanna went home that night she carried with her an invitation for Jimmy Bean himself to call at the great house with Pollyanna the next Saturday afternoon.
也许笑声澄清了空气；又或许，波莉安娜热切的小嘴唇所讲述的吉米·比恩故事中的悲情触动了一颗已经出奇地柔软的心。无论如何，当波莉安娜那天晚上回家时，她带着一张邀请函，邀请吉米·比恩本人在下周六下午与波莉安娜一起拜访这座大房子。

‘And I’m so glad, and I’m sure you’ll like him,’ sighed Pollyanna, as she said good-by. ‘I do so want Jimmy Bean to have a home—and folks that care, you know.’
“我很高兴，我相信你会喜欢他的，”波莉安娜在告别时叹了口气。 “我真的希望吉米·比恩有一个家，还有关心他的人，你知道的。”

CHAPTER XXII. SERMONS AND WOODBOXES
第二十二章。布道和木箱

On the afternoon that Pollyanna told John Pendleton of Jimmy Bean, the Rev. Paul Ford climbed the hill and entered the Pendleton Woods, hoping that the hushed beauty of God’s out-of-doors would still the tumult that His children of men had wrought.
在波莉安娜向约翰·彭德尔顿讲述吉米·比恩的那天下午，保罗·福特牧师爬上山坡，进入彭德尔顿森林，希望上帝户外的静谧之美能够平息他的人类之子所造成的骚动。

The Rev. Paul Ford was sick at heart. Month by month, for a year past, conditions in the parish under him had been growing worse and worse; until it seemed that now, turn which way he would, he encountered only wrangling, backbiting, scandal, and jealousy. He had argued, pleaded, rebuked, and ignored by turns; and always and through all he had prayed—earnestly, hopefully. But to-day miserably he was forced to own that matters were no better, but rather worse.
保罗·福特牧师心里很难受。一年来，他领导下的教区的情况逐月恶化。直到现在，无论他往哪个方向转，他遇到的只是争吵、诽谤、丑闻和嫉妒。他时而争论，时而恳求，时而斥责，时而无视。他一直在祈祷——真诚地、充满希望地祈祷。但今天他不得不悲惨地承认，事情不但没有好转，反而更糟了。

Two of his deacons were at swords’ points over a silly something that only endless brooding had made of any account. Three of his most energetic women workers had withdrawn from the Ladies’ Aid Society because a tiny spark of gossip had been fanned by wagging tongues into a devouring flame of scandal. The choir had split over the amount of solo work given to a fanciedly preferred singer. Even the Christian Endeavor Society was in a ferment of unrest owing to open criticism of two of its officers. As to the Sunday school—it had been the resignation of its superintendent and two of its teachers that had been the last straw, and that had sent the harassed minister to the quiet woods for prayer and meditation.
他的两个执事因为一件愚蠢的事情而剑拔弩张，而这件事只有无尽的沉思才能解释清楚。他手下最有活力的三名女员工退出了妇女援助协会，因为八卦的小小火花被煽动成吞噬丑闻的火焰。合唱团在分配给一位备受青睐的歌手的独唱作品数量上存在分歧。就连基督教奋进协会也因其两名官员的公开批评而陷入骚乱。至于主日学——校长和两名老师的辞职成为压垮他的最后一根稻草，让饱受困扰的牧师到安静的树林里祈祷和冥想。

Under the green arch of the trees the Rev. Paul Ford faced the thing squarely. To his mind, the crisis had come. Something must be done—and done at once. The entire work of the church was at a standstill. The Sunday services, the week-day prayer meeting, the missionary teas, even the suppers and socials were becoming less and less well attended. True, a few conscientious workers were still left. But they pulled at cross purposes, usually; and always they showed themselves to be acutely aware of the critical eyes all about them, and of the tongues that had nothing to do but to talk about what the eyes saw.
在绿色的树拱下，保罗·福特牧师正视着这个东西。在他看来，危机已经来临。必须做点什么——而且是立即做。整个教会的工作陷入停滞。周日的礼拜、平日的祈祷会、传教茶会、甚至晚餐和社交活动都变得越来越少。确实，还剩下一些尽职尽责的工人。但他们的目的通常是相互矛盾的。他们总是表现出敏锐地意识到周围挑剔的目光，以及那些除了谈论眼睛所见之外无所事事的舌头。

And because of all this, the Rev. Paul Ford understood very well that he (God’s minister), the church, the town, and even Christianity itself was suffering; and must suffer still more unless—
正因如此，保罗·福特牧师非常清楚，他（上帝的牧师）、教会、城镇，甚至基督教本身都在受苦；并且必须遭受更多的痛苦，除非——

Clearly something must be done, and done at once. But what?
显然，必须采取行动，而且必须立即采取行动。但什么？

Slowly the minister took from his pocket the notes he had made for his next Sunday’s sermon. Frowningly he looked at them. His mouth settled into stern lines, as aloud, very impressively, he read the verses on which he had determined to speak:
牧师慢慢地从口袋里拿出他为下周日的布道做的笔记。他皱着眉头看着他们。他的嘴角变得严厉，大声朗读着他决定要讲的诗句：

‘ ‘But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in.’
’‘但是你们这些假冒为善的文士和法利赛人有祸了！因为你们将天国的门向人关闭了，自己不进去，也不允许那些要进去的人进去。

‘ ‘Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye devour widows’ houses, and for a pretence make long prayer: therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation.’
‘‘你们这些假冒为善的文士和法利赛人有祸了！因为你们侵吞了寡妇的房屋，并假装进行了长时间的祈祷：因此你们将受到更严重的惩罚。

‘ ‘Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.’ ‘
‘‘你们这些假冒为善的文士和法利赛人有祸了！因为你们缴纳了薄荷、茴香和小茴香的十分之一，却忽略了法律、审判、仁慈和信仰等更重要的事情：这些你们应该做，而不是让其他事情未完成。”

It was a bitter denunciation. In the green aisles of the woods, the minister’s deep voice rang out with scathing effect. Even the birds and squirrels seemed hushed into awed silence. It brought to the minister a vivid realization of how those words would sound the next Sunday when he should utter them before his people in the sacred hush of the church.
这是一种严厉的谴责。树林里的绿色通道里，牧师低沉的声音响起，带着严厉的效果。就连鸟儿和松鼠似乎也陷入了敬畏的沉默。这让牧师清楚地意识到，下周日，当他在教堂神圣的寂静中向他的人民说出这些话时，听起来会是什么样子。

His people!—they WERE his people. Could he do it? Dare he do it? Dare he not do it? It was a fearful denunciation, even without the words that would follow—his own words. He had prayed and prayed. He had pleaded earnestly for help, for guidance. He longed—oh, how earnestly he longed!—to take now, in this crisis, the right step. But was this—the right step?
他的人民！——他们是他的人民。他能做到吗？他敢这么做吗？他敢不做吗？这是一种可怕的谴责，即使没有随后的言语——他自己的话。他不断地祈祷。他真诚地请求帮助和指导。他渴望——哦，他多么热切地渴望！——在这场危机中，立即采取正确的步骤。但这是——正确的一步吗？

Slowly the minister folded the papers and thrust them back into his pocket. Then, with a sigh that was almost a moan, he flung himself down at the foot of a tree, and covered his face with his hands.
牧师慢慢地把文件折好，塞回口袋里。然后，他叹了口气，几乎是呻吟声，扑倒在一棵树下，用手捂住了脸。

It was there that Pollyanna, on her way home from the Pendleton house, found him. With a little cry she ran forward.
正是在那里，波莉安娜从彭德尔顿家回家的路上找到了他。她轻轻叫了一声，向前跑去。

‘Oh, oh, Mr. Ford! You—YOU haven’t broken YOUR leg or—or anything, have you?’ she gasped.
“哦，哦，福特先生！你——你没有摔断腿或者——或者别的什么，是吗？”她喘着气说道。

The minister dropped his hands, and looked up quickly. He tried to smile.
部长放下双手，迅速抬起头来。他试图微笑。

‘No, dear—no, indeed! I’m just—resting.’
“不，亲爱的——不，确实如此！我只是在——休息。

‘Oh,’ sighed Pollyanna, falling back a little. ‘That’s all right, then. You see, Mr. Pendleton HAD broken his leg when I found him—but he was lying down, though. And you are sitting up.’
“哦，”波莉安娜叹了口气，向后退了一点。 ‘那就这样吧。你看，当我找到彭德尔顿先生时，他的腿已经骨折了——但他当时正躺着。你坐起来了。

‘Yes, I am sitting up; and I haven’t broken anything—that doctors can mend.’
‘是的，我坐起来了；我没有弄坏任何东西——医生可以修复。”

The last words were very low, but Pollyanna heard them. A swift change crossed her face. Her eyes glowed with tender sympathy.
最后一句话很低，但波莉安娜听到了。她的脸色迅速变化。她的眼睛里闪烁着温柔的同情。

‘I know what you mean—something plagues you. Father used to feel like that, lots of times. I reckon ministers do—most generally. You see there’s such a lot depends on ‘em, somehow.’
“我明白你的意思——有些事情困扰着你。父亲曾经有过很多次这样的感觉。我认为部长们普遍都是这样做的。你看，有很多事情取决于“他们，不知何故。”

The Rev. Paul Ford turned a little wonderingly.
保罗·福特牧师有些疑惑地转过身来。

‘Was YOUR father a minister, Pollyanna?’
“波莉安娜，你的父亲是牧师吗？”

‘Yes, sir. Didn’t you know? I supposed everybody knew that. He married Aunt Polly’s sister, and she was my mother.’
'是的先生。你不知道吗？我想每个人都知道这一点。他娶了波莉姨妈的妹妹，她就是我的母亲。

‘Oh, I understand. But, you see, I haven’t been here many years, so I don’t know all the family histories.’
'哦，我懂。但是，你看，我来这儿的时间不长，所以我不知道所有的家族史。”

‘Yes, sir—I mean, no, sir,’ smiled Pollyanna.
“是的，先生——我的意思是，不，先生，”波莉安娜微笑道。

There was a long pause. The minister, still sitting at the foot of the tree, appeared to have forgotten Pollyanna’s presence. He had pulled some papers from his pocket and unfolded them; but he was not looking at them. He was gazing, instead, at a leaf on the ground a little distance away—and it was not even a pretty leaf. It was brown and dead. Pollyanna, looking at him, felt vaguely sorry for him.
出现了长时间的停顿。牧师仍然坐在树下，似乎忘记了波莉安娜的存在。他从口袋里掏出一些文件并展开。但他没有看他们。相反，他凝视着不远处地上的一片叶子——那根本不是一片漂亮的叶子。它是棕色的，死了。波莉安娜看着他，隐隐约约地为他感到难过。

‘It—it’s a nice day,’ she began hopefully.
“今天——真是美好的一天，”她满怀希望地说道。

For a moment there was no answer; then the minister looked up with a start.
一时间没有答案。然后部长吃惊地抬起头来。

‘What? Oh!—yes, it is a very nice day.’
'什么？哦！——是的，这是非常美好的一天。

‘And ‘tisn’t cold at all, either, even if ‘tis October,’ observed Pollyanna, still more hopefully. ‘Mr. Pendleton had a fire, but he said he didn’t need it. It was just to look at. I like to look at fires, don’t you?’
“而且一点也不冷，即使是十月，”波莉安娜更加满怀希望地说道。 '先生。彭德尔顿生了火，但他说他不需要它。本来只是看看而已。我喜欢看火，你呢？

There was no reply this time, though Pollyanna waited patiently, before she tried again—by a new route.
这次没有得到答复，尽管波莉安娜耐心地等待着，然后她又尝试了一次——通过一条新路线。

‘Do You like being a minister?’
“你喜欢当部长吗？”

The Rev. Paul Ford looked up now, very quickly.
保罗·福特牧师很快抬起头来。

‘Do I like—Why, what an odd question! Why do you ask that, my dear?’
“我喜欢吗——为什么，这是一个多么奇怪的问题啊！”亲爱的，你为什么问这个？

‘Nothing—only the way you looked. It made me think of my father. He used to look like that—sometimes.’
“没什么——只是你看起来的样子。这让我想起了我的父亲。他曾经看起来像那样——有时。

‘Did he?’ The minister’s voice was polite, but his eyes had gone back to the dried leaf on the ground.
“是吗？”牧师的声音很礼貌，但他的目光又回到了地上的干树叶上。

‘Yes, and I used to ask him just as I did you if he was glad he was a minister.’
“是的，我过去常常问他，就像问你一样，他是否很高兴自己是一名部长。”

The man under the tree smiled a little sadly.
树下的人笑得有些伤感。

‘Well—what did he say?’
“嗯——他说什么？”

‘Oh, he always said he was, of course, but ‘most always he said, too, that he wouldn’t STAY a minister a minute if ‘twasn’t for the rejoicing texts.’
“哦，他总是说他是，当然，但是‘他也总是说，如果‘不是因为那些令人欣喜的文字’，他一分钟都不会继续当牧师。”

‘The—WHAT?’ The Rev. Paul Ford’s eyes left the leaf and gazed wonderingly into Pollyanna’s merry little face.
“那——什么？”保罗·福特牧师的目光离开了树叶，惊奇地凝视着波莉安娜那张快乐的小脸。

‘Well, that’s what father used to call ‘em,’ she laughed. ‘Of course the Bible didn’t name ‘em that. But it’s all those that begin ‘Be glad in the Lord,’ or ‘Rejoice greatly,’ or ‘Shout for joy,’ and all that, you know—such a lot of ‘em. Once, when father felt specially bad, he counted ‘em. There were eight hundred of ‘em.’
“好吧，父亲以前就是这么称呼他们的，”她笑道。 “当然，圣经没有这样称呼他们。但都是那些以“靠主喜乐”或“大大喜乐”或“欢呼”开头的人，你知道，这样的人太多了。有一次，当父亲感觉特别难受时，他就数了数。 “他们”有八百个。

‘Eight hundred!’
“八百！”

‘Yes—that told you to rejoice and be glad, you know; that’s why father named ‘em the ‘rejoicing texts.’ ‘
“是的——这告诉你要欢喜快乐，你知道；”这就是为什么父亲将它们命名为“欢乐文本”。

‘Oh!’ There was an odd look on the minister’s face. His eyes had fallen to the words on the top paper in his hands—‘But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!’ ‘And so your father—liked those ‘rejoicing texts,’ ‘ he murmured.
“哦！”部长脸上露出奇怪的表情。他的目光落到了手中最上面的纸上的文字上——“你们这些伪善的文士和法利赛人有祸了！”“所以你的父亲——喜欢那些‘令人喜乐的经文’，”他低声说道。

‘Oh, yes,’ nodded Pollyanna, emphatically. ‘He said he felt better right away, that first day he thought to count ‘em. He said if God took the trouble to tell us eight hundred times to be glad and rejoice, He must want us to do it—SOME. And father felt ashamed that he hadn’t done it more. After that, they got to be such a comfort to him, you know, when things went wrong; when the Ladies’ Aiders got to fight—I mean, when they DIDN’T AGREE about something,’ corrected Pollyanna, hastily. ‘Why, it was those texts, too, father said, that made HIM think of the game—he began with ME on the crutches—but he said ‘twas the rejoicing texts that started him on it.’
“哦，是的，”波丽安娜强调地点点头。 “他说他第一天就感觉好多了，他想数一数。”他说，如果上帝不厌其烦地告诉我们八百次要高兴和喜乐，他一定希望我们这样做——一些。父亲为自己没有多做一点而感到羞愧。从那以后，当事情出了问题时，它们对他来说是一种安慰。当女士们的助手们开始战斗时——我的意思是，当她们在某件事上意见不一致时，”波莉安娜急忙纠正道。 “父亲说，也是这些短信让他想起了这款游戏——他是和拄着拐杖的我一起开始的——但他说，‘正是这些令人高兴的短信让他开始玩这款游戏。”

‘And what game might that be?’ asked the minister.
“那会是什么游戏？”部长问道。

‘About finding something in everything to be glad about, you know. As I said, he began with me on the crutches.’ And once more Pollyanna told her story—this time to a man who listened with tender eyes and understanding ears.
‘你知道，关于在一切事情中找到令人高兴的事情。正如我所说，他是从我拄着拐杖开始的。”波莉安娜再一次讲述了她的故事——这一次是一个用温柔的眼睛和理解的耳朵倾听的男人。

A little later Pollyanna and the minister descended the hill, hand in hand. Pollyanna’s face was radiant. Pollyanna loved to talk, and she had been talking now for some time: there seemed to be so many, many things about the game, her father, and the old home life that the minister wanted to know.
过了一会儿，波莉安娜和牧师手牵手下了山。波莉安娜的脸容光焕发。波莉安娜喜欢说话，而且她已经说话有一段时间了：似乎有很多很多关于比赛、她父亲和旧家庭生活的事情是部长想知道的。

At the foot of the hill their ways parted, and Pollyanna down one road, and the minister down another, walked on alone.
到了山脚下，他们分道扬镳，波莉安娜走一条路，牧师走另一条路，独自前行。

In the Rev. Paul Ford’s study that evening the minister sat thinking. Near him on the desk lay a few loose sheets of paper—his sermon notes. Under the suspended pencil in his fingers lay other sheets of paper, blank—his sermon to be. But the minister was not thinking either of what he had written, or of what be intended to write. In his imagination he was far away in a little Western town with a missionary minister who was poor, sick, worried, and almost alone in the world—but who was poring over the Bible to find how many times his Lord and Master had told him to ‘rejoice and be glad.’
那天晚上，牧师坐在保罗·福特牧师的书房里思考。在他旁边的桌子上放着几张松散的纸——他的布道笔记。他手指上悬着的铅笔下面还放着几张空白的纸——这是他的布道。但部长并没有想到他写了什么，也没有想到他打算写什么。在他的想象中，他远在一个西部小镇，身边有一位传教士，他贫穷、患病、忧心忡忡，几乎孤身一人，但他正在研读圣经，寻找他的主和师父告诉过他多少次。 “欢喜快乐”。

After a time, with a long sigh, the Rev. Paul Ford roused himself, came back from the far Western town, and adjusted the sheets of paper under his hand.
过了一会儿，保罗·福特牧师长长地叹了口气，从遥远的西部小镇回来，整理了一下手下的纸张。

‘Matthew twenty-third; 13—14 and 23,’ he wrote; then, with a gesture of impatience, he dropped his pencil and pulled toward him a magazine left on the desk by his wife a few minutes before. Listlessly his tired eyes turned from paragraph to paragraph until these words arrested them:
‘马太二十三； 13-14 和 23，”他写道；然后，他露出不耐烦的表情，放下铅笔，把妻子几分钟前留在桌上的一本杂志拉到自己面前。他疲倦的眼睛无精打采地从一段话转到另一段话，直到这句话吸引住了他们：

‘A father one day said to his son, Tom, who, he knew, had refused to fill his mother’s woodbox that morning: ‘Tom, I’m sure you’ll be glad to go and bring in some wood for your mother.’ And without a word Tom went. Why? Just because his father showed so plainly that he expected him to do the right thing. Suppose he had said: ‘Tom, I overheard what you said to your mother this morning, and I’m ashamed of you. Go at once and fill that woodbox!’ I’ll warrant that woodbox, would be empty yet, so far as Tom was concerned!’
有一天，一位父亲对他的儿子汤姆说：“汤姆，我相信你会很高兴去给你母亲带一些木头来。”他知道，汤姆那天早上拒绝装满他母亲的木箱。 ’汤姆一言不发地走了。为什么？只因为他的父亲表现得如此直白，希望他做正确的事。假设他说：‘汤姆，我今天早上无意中听到你对你母亲说的话，我为你感到羞耻。立即去把那个木箱装满！“我保证那个木箱，就汤姆而言，还是空的！”

On and on read the minister—a word here, a line there, a paragraph somewhere else:
部长不断地读着——这里一句话，那里一行，别处一段：

‘What men and women need is encouragement. Their natural resisting powers should be strengthened, not weakened…. Instead of always harping on a man’s faults, tell him of his virtues. Try to pull him out of his rut of bad habits. Hold up to him his better self, his REAL self that can dare and do and win out! … The influence of a beautiful, helpful, hopeful character is contagious, and may revolutionize a whole town…. People radiate what is in their minds and in their hearts. If a man feels kindly and obliging, his neighbors will feel that way, too, before long. But if he scolds and scowls and criticizes—his neighbors will return scowl for scowl, and add interest! … When you look for the bad, expecting it, you will get it. When you know you will find the good—you will get that…. Tell your son Tom you KNOW he’ll be glad to fill that woodbox—then watch him start, alert and interested!’
“男人和女人需要的是鼓励。他们的天然抵抗力应该得到加强，而不是削弱……。不要总是喋喋不休地谈论一个人的缺点，而要告诉他他的优点。尝试让他改掉坏习惯。让他看到更好的自己，真正的自己，敢于行动，敢于行动，最终获胜！ ……美丽、乐于助人、充满希望的性格的影响力具有感染力，可能会彻底改变整个城镇……。人们会放射出他们的思想和内心的光芒。如果一个人感到友善和乐于助人，不久之后他的邻居也会有同样的感觉。但如果他责骂、皱眉、批评——他的邻居就会以同样的方式皱眉，并增加兴趣！ ……当你寻找坏处并期待它时，你就会得到它。当你知道你会找到好的东西时——你就会得到……。告诉你的儿子汤姆，你知道他会很高兴填满那个木箱——然后看着他开始，警觉且感兴趣！

The minister dropped the paper and lifted his chin. In a moment he was on his feet, tramping the narrow room back and forth, back and forth. Later, some time later, he drew a long breath, and dropped himself in the chair at his desk.
部长放下报纸，抬起下巴。不一会儿，他就站了起来，在狭窄的房间里来来回回地踱着步。过了一段时间，他长长地吸了一口气，跌坐在办公桌前的椅子上。

‘God helping me, I’ll do it!’ he cried softly. ‘I’ll tell all my Toms I KNOW they’ll be glad to fill that woodbox! I’ll give them work to do, and I’ll make them so full of the very joy of doing it that they won’t have TIME to look at their neighbors’ woodboxes!’ And he picked up his sermon notes, tore straight through the sheets, and cast them from him, so that on one side of his chair lay ‘But woe unto you,’ and on the other, ‘scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!’ while across the smooth white paper before him his pencil fairly flew—after first drawing one black line through Matthew twenty-third; 13—14 and 23.’
“上帝帮助我，我会做到的！”他轻声喊道。 “我会告诉我所有的汤姆，我知道他们会很高兴填满那个木箱！”我会让他们做事，我会让他们充满做事的乐趣，这样他们就没有时间看邻居的木箱了！”说着他拿起布道笔记，直接撕了下来。他的椅子一侧写着“你们有祸了”，另一侧则写着“文士和法利赛人，伪君子！”而他的铅笔则清晰地划过面前光滑的白纸。飞了——首先在马太二十三处画了一条黑线； 13-14 和 23。’

Thus it happened that the Rev. Paul Ford’s sermon the next Sunday was a veritable bugle-call to the best that was in every man and woman and child that heard it; and its text was one of Pollyanna’s shining eight hundred:
因此，保罗·福特牧师下周日的布道对每一个听到布道的男人、女人和孩子来说都是名副其实的号角。其文字是波莉安娜的光辉八百句之一：

‘Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, ye righteous, and shout for joy all ye that are upright in heart.’
‘你们义人应当靠主欢喜快乐，心里正直的人都应当欢呼。’

CHAPTER XXIII. AN ACCIDENT
第二十三章。一次意外

At Mrs. Snow’s request, Pollyanna went one day to Dr. Chilton’s office to get the name of a medicine which Mrs. Snow had forgotten. As it chanced, Pollyanna had never before seen the inside of Dr. Chilton’s office.
有一天，应斯诺夫人的要求，波莉安娜去奇尔顿医生的办公室询问一种斯诺夫人忘记的药物的名称。碰巧的是，波莉安娜以前从未见过奇尔顿医生的办公室内部。

‘I’ve never been to your home before! This IS your home, isn’t it?’ she said, looking interestedly about her.
‘我从来没有去过你家！这是你的家，不是吗？”她饶有兴趣地环顾四周说道。

The doctor smiled a little sadly.
医生笑得有些悲伤。

‘Yes—such as ‘tis,’ he answered, as he wrote something on the pad of paper in his hand; ‘but it’s a pretty poor apology for a home, Pollyanna. They’re just rooms, that’s all—not a home.’
“是的——比如‘tis’，”他一边回答，一边在手里的便条纸上写着什么。 “但对于一个家来说，这是一个相当糟糕的道歉，盲目乐观。它们只是房间，仅此而已，不是家。”

Pollyanna nodded her head wisely. Her eyes glowed with sympathetic understanding.
波莉安娜明智地点点头。她的眼睛里闪烁着同情和理解的光芒。

‘I know. It takes a woman’s hand and heart, or a child’s presence to make a home,’ she said.
'我知道。建立一个家需要女人的手和心，或者孩子的存在，”她说。

‘Eh?’ The doctor wheeled about abruptly.
“呃？”医生突然转过身来。

‘Mr. Pendleton told me,’ nodded Pollyanna, again; ‘about the woman’s hand and heart, or the child’s presence, you know. Why don’t you get a woman’s hand and heart, Dr. Chilton? Or maybe you’d take Jimmy Bean—if Mr. Pendleton doesn’t want him.’
'先生。彭德尔顿告诉我的。”波莉安娜再次点点头。 “关于女人的手和心，或者孩子的存在，你知道。奇尔顿博士，你为什么不得到女人的手和心呢？或者也许你会选择吉米·比恩——如果彭德尔顿先生不想要他的话。

Dr. Chilton laughed a little constrainedly.
奇尔顿医生笑得有点拘谨。

‘So Mr. Pendleton says it takes a woman’s hand and heart to make a home, does he?’ he asked evasively.
“那么彭德尔顿先生说，需要女人的双手和心灵来打造一个家，是吗？”他闪烁其词地问道。

‘Yes. He says his is just a house, too. Why don’t you, Dr. Chilton?’
'是的。他说他的也只是一栋房子。你为什么不呢，奇尔顿博士？

‘Why don’t I—what?’ The doctor had turned back to his desk.
“我为什么不——什么？”医生转身走向他的办公桌。

‘Get a woman’s hand and heart. Oh—and I forgot.’ Pollyanna’s face showed suddenly a painful color. ‘I suppose I ought to tell you. It wasn’t Aunt Polly that Mr. Pendleton loved long ago; and so we—we aren’t going there to live. You see, I told you it was—but I made a mistake. I hope YOU didn’t tell any one,’ she finished anxiously.
‘抓住女人的手和心。哦——我忘了​​。”波莉安娜的脸上突然露出痛苦之色。 “我想我应该告诉你。彭德尔顿先生很久以前爱的并不是波莉姨妈；而是波莉姨妈。所以我们——我们不会去那里生活。你看，我告诉过你是这样的——但我犯了一个错误。我希望你没有告诉任何人。”她焦急地说道。

‘No—I didn’t tell any one, Pollyanna,’ replied the doctor, a little queerly.
“不——我没有告诉任何人，波丽安娜，”医生有点奇怪地回答道。

‘Oh, that’s all right, then,’ sighed Pollyanna in relief. ‘You see you’re the only one I told, and I thought Mr. Pendleton looked sort of funny when I said I’d told YOU.’
“哦，那好吧，”波莉安娜松了口气。 “你看，你是我唯一告诉的人，当我说我告诉你的时候，我觉得彭德尔顿先生看起来有点好笑。”

‘Did he?’ The doctor’s lips twitched.
“是吗？”医生的嘴唇抽动着。

‘Yes. And of course he wouldn’t want many people to know it—when ‘twasn’t true. But why don’t you get a woman’s hand and heart, Dr. Chilton?’
'是的。当然，他不想让很多人知道——当“这不是真的”时。但是奇尔顿博士，你为什么不得到女人的手和心呢？

There was a moment’s silence; then very gravely the doctor said:
一阵沉默。然后医生非常严肃地说：

‘They’re not always to be had—for the asking, little girl.’
“对于有要求的小女孩来说，它们并不总是可用的。”

Pollyanna frowned thoughtfully.
波莉安娜皱起眉头若有所思。

‘But I should think you could get ‘em,’ she argued. The flattering emphasis was unmistakable.
“但我认为你可以得到它们，”她争辩道。奉承的强调是明确无误的。

‘Thank you,’ laughed the doctor, with uplifted eyebrows. Then, gravely again: ‘I’m afraid some of your older sisters would not be quite so—confident. At least, they—they haven’t shown themselves to be so—obliging,’ he observed.
“谢谢你，”医生扬起眉毛笑道。然后，又严肃地说：“恐怕你的一些姐姐不会那么——自信。”至少，他们——他们还没有表现出如此——乐于助人，”他评论道。

Pollyanna frowned again. Then her eyes widened in surprise.
波莉安娜再次皱起了眉头。然后她惊讶地睁大了眼睛。

‘Why, Dr. Chilton, you don’t mean—you didn’t try to get somebody’s hand and heart once, like Mr. Pendleton, and—and couldn’t, did you?’
“为什么，奇尔顿博士，你的意思是——你没有像彭德尔顿先生那样试图抓住某人的手和心，而且——而且不能，是吗？”

The doctor got to his feet a little abruptly.
医生猛地站了起来。

‘There, there, Pollyanna, never mind about that now. Don’t let other people’s troubles worry your little head. Suppose you run back now to Mrs. Snow. I’ve written down the name of the medicine, and the directions how she is to take it. Was there anything else?’
‘好了，好了，波丽安娜，现在别管这个了。不要让别人的烦恼困扰你的小脑袋。假设你现在跑回斯诺夫人身边。我已经写下了药物的名称以及她的服用方法。还有别的事吗？

Pollyanna shook her head.
波莉安娜摇摇头。

‘No, Sir; thank you, Sir,’ she murmured soberly, as she turned toward the door. From the little hallway she called back, her face suddenly alight: ‘Anyhow, I’m glad ‘twasn’t my mother’s hand and heart that you wanted and couldn’t get, Dr. Chilton. Good-by!’
'不，先生;谢谢您，先生。”她转身走向门口，严肃地低声说道。她在小走廊里回了电话，脸上突然焕发出光芒：“无论如何，我很高兴你想要却得不到的不是我母亲的手和心，奇尔顿博士。”有效期！'

It was on the last day of October that the accident occurred. Pollyanna, hurrying home from school, crossed the road at an apparently safe distance in front of a swiftly approaching motor car.
事故发生在十月的最后一天。波莉安娜从学校匆匆赶回家，在一辆迅速驶来的汽车前面以明显安全的距离过马路。

Just what happened, no one could seem to tell afterward. Neither was there any one found who could tell why it happened or who was to blame that it did happen. Pollyanna, however, at five o’clock, was borne, limp and unconscious, into the little room that was so dear to her. There, by a white-faced Aunt Polly and a weeping Nancy she was undressed tenderly and put to bed, while from the village, hastily summoned by telephone, Dr. Warren was hurrying as fast as another motor car could bring him.
至于到底发生了什么，事后似乎没有人能说得清。也没有人能够说出为什么会发生这种情况，或者谁应该为这种情况的发生负责。然而，五点钟的时候，波莉安娜被抬进了她如此珍爱的小房间，她浑身无力，毫无知觉。在那里，脸色苍白的波莉姨妈和哭泣的南希温柔地帮她脱掉衣服，放到床上，而沃伦医生则从村子里接到电话匆匆叫来，正以另一辆汽车能载着他的最快速度赶路。

‘And ye didn’t need ter more’n look at her aunt’s face,’ Nancy was sobbing to Old Tom in the garden, after the doctor had arrived and was closeted in the hushed room; ‘ye didn’t need ter more’n look at her aunt’s face ter see that ‘twa’n’t no duty that was eatin’ her. Yer hands don’t shake, and yer eyes don’t look as if ye was tryin’ ter hold back the Angel o’ Death himself, when you’re jest doin’ yer DUTY, Mr. Tom they don’t, they don’t!’
“你们不需要再看她姨妈的脸了，”医生到达并关在安静的房间里后，南希在花园里对老汤姆哭泣。 “你不需要再看她姨妈的脸，就知道她没有什么责任。”当你开玩笑地履行你的职责时，你的手不会颤抖，你的眼睛看起来也不会试图阻止死亡天使本人，汤姆先生，他们没有，他们没有‘t！’

‘Is she hurt—bad?’ The old man’s voice shook.
“她受伤了吗——很严重吗？”老人的声音在颤抖。

‘There ain’t no tellin’,’ sobbed Nancy. ‘She lay back that white an’ still she might easy be dead; but Miss Polly said she wa’n’t dead—an’ Miss Polly had oughter know, if any one would—she kept up such a listenin’ an’ a feelin’ for her heartbeats an’ her breath!’
“没有什么可说的，”南希抽泣着。 “她躺在那儿，脸色苍白，一动不动，她可能很容易就死了；”但波莉小姐说她没有死——波莉小姐应该知道，如果有人愿意的话——她一直在倾听和感受她的心跳和呼吸！

‘Couldn’t ye tell anythin’ what it done to her?—that—that—‘ Old Tom’s face worked convulsively.
“你就不能告诉我这件事对她做了什么吗？——那个——那个——”老汤姆的脸抽搐起来。

Nancy’s lips relaxed a little.
南希的嘴唇放松了一点。

‘I wish ye WOULD call it somethin’, Mr. Tom an’ somethin’ good an’ strong, too. Drat it! Ter think of its runnin’ down our little girl! I always hated the evil-smellin’ things, anyhow—I did, I did!’
“我希望你们也能称它为‘某种东西’，汤姆先生，一种‘美好而强大’的东西。”讨厌它！想想它让我们的小女孩受伤了！无论如何，我一直讨厌那些恶臭的东西——我讨厌，我讨厌！

‘But where is she hurt?’
“但是她哪里受伤了？”

‘I don’t know, I don’t know,’ moaned Nancy. There’s a little cut on her blessed head, but ‘tain’t bad—that ain’t—Miss Polly says. She says she’s afraid it’s infernally she’s hurt.’
“我不知道，我不知道，”南希呻吟道。她那神圣的头上有一个小伤口，但“还不错——那不是——”波莉小姐说。她说她害怕自己受伤了。

A faint flicker came into Old Tom’s eyes.
老汤姆眼中闪过一丝微弱的光芒。

‘I guess you mean internally, Nancy,’ he said dryly. ‘She’s hurt infernally, all right—plague take that autymobile!—but I don’t guess Miss Polly’d be usin’ that word, all the same.’
“我猜你指的是内在，南希，”他干巴巴地说。 “她受了重伤，好吧——瘟疫带走了那辆汽车！——但我不认为波莉小姐会用这个词，尽管如此。”

‘Eh? Well, I don’t know, I don’t know,’ moaned Nancy, with a shake of her head as she turned away. ‘Seems as if I jest couldn’t stand it till that doctor gits out o’ there. I wish I had a washin’ ter do—the biggest washin’ I ever see, I do, I do!’ she wailed, wringing her hands helplessly.
‘呃？嗯，我不知道，我不知道，”南希呻吟道，转身走开时摇了摇头。 “看来我开玩笑地无法忍受直到那个医生离开那里。我希望我能洗一次——这是我见过的最大的一次洗，我愿意，我愿意！”她哭喊着，无助地绞着双手。

Even after the doctor was gone, however, there seemed to be little that Nancy could tell Mr. Tom. There appeared to be no bones broken, and the cut was of slight consequence; but the doctor had looked very grave, had shaken his head slowly, and had said that time alone could tell. After he had gone, Miss Polly had shown a face even whiter and more drawn looking than before. The patient had not fully recovered consciousness, but at present she seemed to be resting as comfortably as could be expected. A trained nurse had been sent for, and would come that night. That was all. And Nancy turned sobbingly, and went back to her kitchen.
然而，即使医生走了之后，南希似乎也没什么能告诉汤姆先生的。骨头似乎没有骨折，伤口也没有造成什么影响。但医生看上去很严肃，慢慢地摇了摇头，并说只有时间才能证明。他走后，波莉小姐的脸色比以前更苍白、更憔悴了。病人的意识还没有完全恢复，但目前她似乎正在休息，正如预期的那样舒适。一名训练有素的护士已被请来，将于当晚前来。就这些。南希抽泣着转身回到厨房。

It was sometime during the next forenoon that Pollyanna opened conscious eyes and realized where she was.
第二天上午的某个时候，波莉安娜睁开了有意识的眼睛，意识到自己在哪里。

‘Why, Aunt Polly, what’s the matter? Isn’t it daytime? Why don’t I get up?’ she cried. ‘Why, Aunt Polly, I can’t get up,’ she moaned, falling back on the pillow, after an ineffectual attempt to lift herself.
“怎么了，波莉阿姨，怎么了？现在不是白天吗？我为什么不起来？”她哭道。 “为什么，波莉姨妈，我起不来。”她呻吟着，试图站起来，但没有成功，她又倒在枕头上。

‘No, dear, I wouldn’t try—just yet,’ soothed her aunt quickly, but very quietly.
“不，亲爱的，我不会尝试——只是暂时，”她姨妈迅速但非常平静地安慰道。

‘But what is the matter? Why can’t I get up?’
‘可是到底是怎么回事呢？为什么我起不来？

Miss Polly’s eyes asked an agonized question of the white-capped young woman standing in the window, out of the range of Pollyanna’s eyes.
波莉小姐的眼睛向站在窗外、波莉安娜视线范围之外的白帽年轻女子提出了一个痛苦的问题。

The young woman nodded.
年轻女子点点头。

‘Tell her,’ the lips said.
“告诉她，”嘴唇说。

Miss Polly cleared her throat, and tried to swallow the lump that would scarcely let her speak.
波莉小姐清了清嗓子，试图吞下几乎让她无法说话的肿块。

‘You were hurt, dear, by the automobile last night. But never mind that now. Auntie wants you to rest and go to sleep again.’
“亲爱的，昨晚你被汽车撞伤了。但现在别介意了。阿姨想让你休息一下再睡觉。

‘Hurt? Oh, yes; I—I ran.’ Pollyanna’s eyes were dazed. She lifted her hand to her forehead. ‘Why, it’s—done up, and it—hurts!’
'伤害？哦是的;我——我跑了。”波莉安娜的眼睛茫然。她把手举到额头上。 “哎呀，它——完蛋了，而且——很痛！”

‘Yes, dear; but never mind. Just—just rest.’
'是的亲爱的;但是不要紧。只是——只是休息。

‘But, Aunt Polly, I feel so funny, and so bad! My legs feel so—so queer—only they don’t FEEL—at all!’
“但是，波莉阿姨，我感觉很可笑，也很糟糕！我的腿感觉如此——如此奇怪——只是它们根本没有感觉！”

With an imploring look into the nurse’s face, Miss Polly struggled to her feet, and turned away. The nurse came forward quickly.
波莉小姐用恳求的眼神看着护士，挣扎着站起来，然后转身走开。护士赶紧上前。

‘Suppose you let me talk to you now,’ she began cheerily. ‘I’m sure I think it’s high time we were getting acquainted, and I’m going to introduce myself. I am Miss Hunt, and I’ve come to help your aunt take care of you. And the very first thing I’m going to do is to ask you to swallow these little white pills for me.’
“如果你现在让我跟你谈谈，”她高兴地说道。 “我确信我认为现在是我们熟悉的时候了，我要自我介绍一下。我是亨特小姐，我是来帮助你阿姨照顾你的。我要做的第一件事就是请你帮我吞下这些白色小药丸。

Pollyanna’s eyes grew a bit wild.
波莉安娜的眼神变得有些狂野。

‘But I don’t want to be taken care of—that is, not for long! I want to get up. You know I go to school. Can’t I go to school to-morrow?’
“但我不想被照顾——也就是说，不会太久！”我想起来。你知道我去上学。我明天不能去学校吗？

From the window where Aunt Polly stood now there came a half-stifled cry.
波莉姨妈现在站着的窗户里传来一声几乎窒息的哭声。

‘To-morrow?’ smiled the nurse, brightly.
“明天？”护士灿烂地笑道。

Well, I may not let you out quite so soon as that, Miss Pollyanna. But just swallow these little pills for me, please, and we’ll see what THEY’LL do.’
好吧，我可能不会那么快让你出去，波莉安娜小姐。但请帮我吞下这些小药丸，我们看看他们会做什么。

‘All right,’ agreed Pollyanna, somewhat doubtfully; ‘but I MUST go to school day after to-morrow—there are examinations then, you know.’
“好吧，”波莉安娜有些怀疑地表示同意。 “但是后天我必须去学校——你知道，那时有考试。”

She spoke again, a minute later. She spoke of school, and of the automobile, and of how her head ached; but very soon her voice trailed into silence under the blessed influence of the little white pills she had swallowed.
一分钟后，她又说话了。她谈到学校、汽车，以及她的头痛。但很快，在她吞下的白色小药丸的影响下，她的声音就变得沉默了。

CHAPTER XXIV. JOHN PENDLETON
第二十四章。约翰·彭德尔顿

Pollyanna did not go to school ‘to-morrow,’ nor the ‘day after to-morrow.’ Pollyanna, however, did not realize this, except momentarily when a brief period of full consciousness sent insistent questions to her lips. Pollyanna did not realize anything, in fact, very clearly until a week had passed; then the fever subsided, the pain lessened somewhat, and her mind awoke to full consciousness. She had then to be told all over again what had occurred.
波莉安娜“明天”和“后天”都不去上学。然而，波莉安娜并没有意识到这一点，除了在短暂的全意识状态下，她嘴里不断发出疑问时。事实上，直到一周过去，波莉安娜才意识到任何事情。然后发烧退了，疼痛也减轻了一些，她的意识也清醒了。然后她必须再次被告知所发生的事情。

‘And so it’s hurt that I am, and not sick,’ she sighed at last. ‘Well, I’m glad of that.’
“所以我是受伤了，而不是生病了，”她最后叹了口气。 “嗯，我很高兴。”

‘G-glad, Pollyanna?’ asked her aunt, who was sitting by the bed.
“很——很高兴，波莉安娜？”坐在床边的姨妈问道。

‘Yes. I’d so much rather have broken legs like Mr. Pendleton’s than life-long-invalids like Mrs. Snow, you know. Broken legs get well, and lifelong-invalids don’t.’
'是的。你知道，我宁愿像彭德尔顿先生那样断腿，也不愿像斯诺夫人那样终身残疾。断腿可以痊愈，终身残疾则不能。”

Miss Polly—who had said nothing whatever about broken legs—got suddenly to her feet and walked to the little dressing table across the room. She was picking up one object after another now, and putting each down, in an aimless fashion quite unlike her usual decisiveness. Her face was not aimless-looking at all, however; it was white and drawn.
波莉小姐——她对断腿一事只字不提——突然站起来，走到房间对面的小梳妆台前。她现在漫无目的地拿起一件又一件的东西，又把一件又放下，这与她平时的果断完全不同。然而，她的表情一点也不漫无目的。它是白色的，画着的。

On the bed Pollyanna lay blinking at the dancing band of colors on the ceiling, which came from one of the prisms in the window.
波莉安娜躺在床上，眨着眼睛看着天花板上舞动的彩带，这些彩带来自窗户上的一个棱镜。

‘I’m glad it isn’t smallpox that ails me, too,’ she murmured contentedly. ‘That would be worse than freckles. And I’m glad ‘tisn’t whooping cough—I’ve had that, and it’s horrid—and I’m glad ‘tisn’t appendicitis nor measles, ‘cause they’re catching—measles are, I mean—and they wouldn’t let you stay here.’
“我很高兴我也不是得了天花，”她满足地低声说道。 ‘那会比雀斑更糟糕。我很高兴这不是百日咳——我曾经得过这种病，这太可怕了——我很高兴这不是阑尾炎或麻疹，因为它们正在传染——我是说，麻疹是——而且它们不会让你留在这里。

‘You seem to—to be glad for a good many things, my dear,’ faltered Aunt Polly, putting her hand to her throat as if her collar bound.
“你似乎——为很多事情感到高兴，亲爱的，”波莉姨妈结结巴巴地说，她把手放在喉咙上，好像衣领被绑住了。

Pollyanna laughed softly.
波莉安娜轻声笑道。

‘I am. I’ve been thinking of ‘em—lots of ‘em—all the time I’ve been looking up at that rainbow. I love rainbows. I’m so glad Mr. Pendleton gave me those prisms! I’m glad of some things I haven’t said yet. I don’t know but I’m ‘most glad I was hurt.’
'我是。当我抬头仰望彩虹时，我一直在想着它们——很多它们。我喜欢彩虹。我很高兴彭德尔顿先生给了我这些棱镜！我很高兴有些事情我还没有说。我不知道，但我“最高兴我受伤了。”

‘Pollyanna!’
“盲目乐观！”

Pollyanna laughed softly again. She turned luminous eyes on her aunt. ‘Well, you see, since I have been hurt, you’ve called me ‘dear’ lots of times—and you didn’t before. I love to be called ‘dear’—by folks that belong to you, I mean. Some of the Ladies’ Aiders did call me that; and of course that was pretty nice, but not so nice as if they had belonged to me, like you do. Oh, Aunt Polly, I’m so glad you belong to me!’
波莉安娜又轻声笑起来。她把明亮的眼睛转向姨妈。 “好吧，你看，自从我受伤以来，你已经多次叫过我‘亲爱的’——而你以前没有这样叫过。我喜欢被属于你的人称为“亲爱的”。一些女士助理确实这样称呼我；当然，这很好，但不像你那样好，就像它们属于我一样。哦，波莉阿姨，我很高兴你属于我！

Aunt Polly did not answer. Her hand was at her throat again. Her eyes were full of tears. She had turned away and was hurrying from the room through the door by which the nurse had just entered.
波莉姨妈没有回答。她的手再次抵住了喉咙。她的眼睛里充满了泪水。她转过身，正从护士刚刚进来的那扇门匆匆离开房间。

It was that afternoon that Nancy ran out to Old Tom, who was cleaning harnesses in the barn. Her eyes were wild.
那天下午，南希跑去找老汤姆，他正在谷仓里清理马具。她的眼睛充满了狂野。

‘Mr. Tom, Mr. Tom. guess what’s happened,’ she panted. ‘You couldn’t guess in a thousand years—you couldn’t, you couldn’t!’
'先生。汤姆，汤姆先生。猜猜发生了什么，”她气喘吁吁地说。 “一千年你都猜不到——你不能，你不能！”

‘Then I cal’late I won’t try,’ retorted the man, grimly, ‘specially as I hain’t got more’n TEN ter live, anyhow, probably. You’d better tell me first off, Nancy.’
“那我算了，我不会再尝试了，”那人冷酷地反驳道，“特别是因为我可能活不过十岁了。”你最好先告诉我，南希。

‘Well, listen, then. Who do you s’pose is in the parlor now with the mistress? Who, I say?’
‘那么，听着。你认为谁现在和情妇一起在客厅里？我说谁？

Old Tom shook his head.
老汤姆摇摇头。

‘There’s no tellin’,’ he declared.
“没有什么可说的，”他宣称。

‘Yes, there is. I’m tellin’. It’s—John Pendleton!’
'就在这里。我告诉你。这是——约翰·彭德尔顿！”

‘Sho, now! You’re jokin’, girl.’
‘嘘，现在！你在开玩笑吧，女孩。

‘Not much I am—an’ me a-lettin’ him in myself—crutches an’ all! An’ the team he come in a-waitin’ this minute at the door for him, jest as if he wa’n’t the cranky old crosspatch he is, what never talks ter no one! jest think, Mr. Tom—HIM a-callin’ on HER!’
“我没什么——我让他在我身边——拐杖什么的！”他的队伍此刻就在门口等他，开玩笑，好像他不是那个脾气暴躁的老混蛋，从来不跟任何人说话！我想，汤姆先生——他在呼唤她！”

‘Well, why not?’ demanded the old man, a little aggressively.
“嗯，为什么不呢？”老人有点咄咄逼人地问道。

Nancy gave him a scornful glance.
南希轻蔑地看了他一眼。

‘As if you didn’t know better’n me!’ she derided.
“好像你不比我更了解！”她嘲笑道。

‘Eh?’
“呃？”

‘Oh, you needn’t be so innercent,’ she retorted with mock indignation; ‘—you what led me wildgoose chasin’ in the first place!’
“哦，你不必这么内向，”她假装愤怒地反驳道。 “——你一开始就让我胡思乱想！”

‘What do ye mean?’
“你这是什么意思？”

Nancy glanced through the open barn door toward the house, and came a step nearer to the old man.
南希透过敞开的谷仓门朝房子看了一眼，然后向老人走近了一步。

‘Listen! ‘Twas you that was tellin’ me Miss Polly had a lover in the first place, wa’n’t it? Well, one day I thinks I finds two and two, and I puts ‘em tergether an’ makes four. But it turns out ter be five—an’ no four at all, at all!’
'听！ “是你告诉我波莉小姐有一个情人的，不是吗？”好吧，有一天我想我找到了两个和两个，然后我把它们组合在一起变成了四个。但事实证明是五个——根本不是四个！”

With a gesture of indifference Old Tom turned and fell to work.
老汤姆做出了一个漠不关心的姿态，转身开始干活。

‘If you’re goin’ ter talk ter me, you’ve got ter talk plain horse sense,’ he declared testily. ‘I never was no hand for figgers.’
“如果你要跟我说话，你就得讲简单的马的感觉，”他暴躁地宣称。 “我从来都不会耍花招。”

Nancy laughed.
南希笑了。

‘Well, it’s this,’ she explained. ‘I heard somethin’ that made me think him an’ Miss Polly was lovers.’
“嗯，就是这个，”她解释道。 “我听到一些消息让我觉得他和波莉小姐是恋人。”

‘MR. PENDLETON!’ Old Tom straightened up.
'先生。 “彭德尔顿！”老汤姆直起身来。

‘Yes. Oh, I know now; he wasn’t. It was that blessed child’s mother he was in love with, and that’s why he wanted—but never mind that part,’ she added hastily, remembering just in time her promise to Pollyanna not to tell that Mr. Pendleton had wished her to come and live with him. ‘Well, I’ve been askin’ folks about him some, since, and I’ve found out that him an’ Miss Polly hain’t been friends for years, an’ that she’s been hatin’ him like pizen owin’ ter the silly gossip that coupled their names tergether when she was eighteen or twenty.’
'是的。哦，我现在知道了；他不是。他爱的是那个有福的孩子的母亲，这就是他想要的原因——但别介意那部分，”她急忙补充道，同时想起她对波莉安娜的承诺，不要告诉彭德尔顿先生希望她来，和他住在一起。 “好吧，从那以后我一直在向人们打听关于他的事，我发现他和波莉小姐已经不是朋友很多年了，而且她一直像讨厌小精灵一样讨厌他。”当她十八岁或二十岁的时候，愚蠢的八卦将他们的名字联系在一起。

‘Yes, I remember,’ nodded Old Tom. ‘It was three or four years after Miss Jennie give him the mitten and went off with the other chap. Miss Polly knew about it, of course, and was sorry for him. So she tried ter be nice to him. Maybe she overdid it a little—she hated that minister chap so who had took off her sister. At any rate, somebody begun ter make trouble. They said she was runnin’ after him.’
“是的，我记得。”老汤姆点点头。 “珍妮小姐给他手套并和另一个小伙子走了之后已经三四年了。波莉小姐当然知道这件事，并且为他感到难过。所以她试着对他好一点。也许她做得有点过头了——她恨那个部长小伙子，所以他抢走了她的妹妹。无论如何，有人开始制造麻烦了。他们说她在追他。

‘Runnin’ after any man—her!’ interjected Nancy.
“追随任何男人——她！”南希插嘴道。

‘I know it; but they did,’ declared Old Tom, ‘and of course no gal of any spunk’ll stand that. Then about that time come her own lover an’ the trouble with HIM. After that she shut up like an oyster an’ wouldn’t have nothin’ ter do with nobody fur a spell. Her heart jest seemed to turn bitter at the core.’
'我知道这;但他们确实这么做了，”老汤姆宣称，“当然，任何有勇气的女孩都受不了。然后大约在那个时候，她自己的爱人和他的麻烦来了。从那以后，她像牡蛎一样闭嘴了，不会与任何人有任何关系。她内心的玩笑似乎从骨子里变成了苦涩。

‘Yes, I know. I’ve heard about that now,’ rejoined Nancy; ‘an’ that’s why you could ‘a’ knocked me down with a feather when I see HIM at the door—him, what she hain’t spoke to for years! But I let him in an’ went an’ told her.’
'是的，我知道。我现在已经听说了，”南希回答道。 ‘an’这就是为什么当我在门口看到他时，你可以‘a’用羽毛把我打倒——他，她已经好几年没跟他说话了！但我让他进来并告诉了她。

‘What did she say?’ Old Tom held his breath suspended.
“她说什么？”老汤姆屏住了呼吸。

‘Nothin’—at first. She was so still I thought she hadn’t heard; and I was jest goin’ ter say it over when she speaks up quiet like: ‘Tell Mr. Pendleton I will be down at once.’ An’ I come an’ told him. Then I come out here an’ told you,’ finished Nancy, casting another backward glance toward the house.
“没什么”——一开始。她一动不动，我以为她没有听见。当她轻声说话时，我正想把这句话再说一遍，比如：“告诉彭德尔顿先生，我马上就下来。”然后我就过来告诉了他。然后我出来告诉你，”南希说完，又回头看了一眼房子。

‘Humph!’ grunted Old Tom; and fell to work again.
“哼！”老汤姆咕哝道。并再次投入工作。

In the ceremonious ‘parlor’ of the Harrington homestead, Mr. John Pendleton did not have to wait long before a swift step warned him of Miss Polly’s coming. As he attempted to rise, she made a gesture of remonstrance. She did not offer her hand, however, and her face was coldly reserved.
在哈林顿宅基地隆重的“客厅”里，约翰·彭德尔顿先生没等多久，便有脚步声警告他波利小姐即将到来。当他试图站起来时，她做出了抗议的手势。但她并没有伸出手，脸上冷冷矜持。

‘I called to ask for—Pollyanna,’ he began at once, a little brusquely.
“我打电话是想找——盲目乐观的人，”他立刻开始，语气有点粗鲁。

‘Thank you. She is about the same,’ said Miss Polly.
'谢谢。她也差不多，”波莉小姐说。

‘And that is—won’t you tell me HOW she is? His voice was not quite steady this time.
‘那就是——你能告诉我她怎么样吗？这次他的声音不太平稳。

A quick spasm of pain crossed the woman’s face.
女人的脸上掠过一阵剧痛。

‘I can’t, I wish I could!’
“我不能，我希望我能！”

‘You mean—you don’t know?’
“你的意思是——你不知道？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘But—the doctor?’
“但是——医生呢？”

‘Dr. Warren himself seems—at sea. He is in correspondence now with a New York specialist. They have arranged for a consultation at once.’
‘博士。沃伦本人似乎——在海上。他现在正在与纽约的一位专家通信。他们已立即安排会诊。”

‘But—but what WERE her injuries that you do know?’
“但是——但是你知道她受了什么伤吗？”

‘A slight cut on the head, one or two bruises, and—and an injury to the spine which has seemed to cause—paralysis from the hips down.’
“头部有轻微割伤，一两处瘀伤，还有脊柱受伤，这似乎导致臀部以下瘫痪。”

A low cry came from the man. There was a brief silence; then, huskily, he asked:
男人低低的叫声传来。一阵短暂的沉默。然后他沙哑地问道：

‘And Pollyanna—how does she—take it?’
“波莉安娜——她如何——接受它？”

‘She doesn’t understand—at all—how things really are. And I CAN’T tell her.’
“她根本不明白事情到底是怎样的。我不能告诉她。

‘But she must know—something!’
“但她一定知道——一些事情！”

Miss Polly lifted her hand to the collar at her throat in the gesture that had become so common to her of late.
波莉小姐把手举到喉咙处的衣领上，这个动作最近对她来说已经很常见了。

‘Oh, yes. She knows she can’t—move; but she thinks her legs are—broken. She says she’s glad it’s broken legs like yours rather than ‘lifelong-invalids’ like Mrs. Snow’s; because broken legs get well, and the other—doesn’t. She talks like that all the time, until it—it seems as if I should—die!’
'哦是的。她知道她不能——动；但她认为她的腿——断了。她说她很高兴是像你一样断腿，而不是像斯诺夫人那样“终身残疾”。因为断腿会痊愈，而另一条腿则不会。她一直这样说话，直到——似乎我应该——死！

Through the blur of tears in his own eyes, the man saw the drawn face opposite, twisted with emotion. Involuntarily his thoughts went back to what Pollyanna had said when he had made his final plea for her presence: ‘Oh, I couldn’t leave Aunt Polly—now!’
透过自己眼中模糊的泪水，男人看到了对面那张因情感而扭曲的憔悴脸。他的思绪不由自主地回到了波莉安娜在他最后请求她出现时所说的话：“哦，我不能离开波莉阿姨——现在！”

It was this thought that made him ask very gently, as soon as he could control his voice:
正是这样的念头，让他一能控制住自己的声音，就非常轻柔地问道：

‘I wonder if you know, Miss Harrington, how hard I tried to get Pollyanna to come and live with me.’
“哈林顿小姐，我不知道你是否知道，我多么努力地想让波莉安娜来和我住在一起。”

‘With YOU!—Pollyanna!’
“和你一起！——盲目乐观！”

The man winced a little at the tone of her voice; but his own voice was still impersonally cool when he spoke again.
男人听到她的语气，微微皱起了眉头。但当他再次开口时，他自己的声音依然冷漠。

‘Yes. I wanted to adopt her—legally, you understand; making her my heir, of course.’
'是的。我想收养她——合法地收养她，你懂的；当然，让她成为我的继承人。

The woman in the opposite chair relaxed a little. It came to her, suddenly, what a brilliant future it would have meant for Pollyanna—this adoption; and she wondered if Pollyanna were old enough and mercenary enough—to be tempted by this man’s money and position.
对面椅子上的女人稍微放松了一些。她突然想到，这对波莉安娜来说意味着多么辉煌的未来——收养；她想知道波莉安娜是否已经足够大了，是否足够唯利是图——会被这个男人的金钱和地位所诱惑。

‘I am very fond of Pollyanna,’ the man was continuing. ‘I am fond of her both for her own sake, and for—her mother’s. I stood ready to give Pollyanna the love that had been twenty-five years in storage.’
“我非常喜欢波莉安娜，”那人继续说道。 “我喜欢她，既是为了她自己，也是为了——她母亲。”我已经准备好向波莉安娜献上储存了二十五年的爱。”

‘LOVE.’ Miss Polly remembered suddenly why SHE had taken this child in the first place—and with the recollection came the remembrance of Pollyanna’s own words uttered that very morning: ‘I love to be called ‘dear’ by folks that belong to you!’ And it was this love-hungry little girl that had been offered the stored-up affection of twenty-five years:—and she was old enough to be tempted by love! With a sinking heart Miss Polly realized that. With a sinking heart, too, she realized something else: the dreariness of her own future now without Pollyanna.
“爱。”波莉小姐突然记起了她当初为什么要带走这个孩子——随着回忆，我想起了那天早上波莉安娜自己说的话：“我喜欢被属于你的人称为‘亲爱的’” ！”而正是这个渴望爱情的小女孩，得到了二十五年来所积蓄的感情：——她已经到了被爱情诱惑的年纪了！波莉小姐的心一沉，意识到了这一点。随着一颗沉沉的心，她也意识到了另一件事：失去了盲目乐观，她自己的未来将是多么悲惨。

‘Well?’ she said. And the man, recognizing the self-control that vibrated through the harshness of the tone, smiled sadly.
“怎么样？”她说。男人从严厉的语气中看出了他的自制力，悲伤地笑了。

‘She would not come,’ he answered.
“她不会来，”他回答道。

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

‘She would not leave you. She said you had been so good to her. She wanted to stay with you—and she said she THOUGHT you wanted her to stay,’ he finished, as he pulled himself to his feet.
‘她不会离开你的。她说你对她太好了。她想和你在一起——她说她认为你希望她留下来。”他说完，站了起来。

He did not look toward Miss Polly. He turned his face resolutely toward the door. But instantly he heard a swift step at his side, and found a shaking hand thrust toward him.
他没有看向波莉小姐。他毅然把脸转向门口。但很快他就听到身边传来一阵急促的脚步声，并发现一只颤抖的手伸向他。

‘When the specialist comes, and I know anything—definite about Pollyanna, I will let you hear from me,’ said a trembling voice. ‘Good-by—and thank you for coming. Pollyanna will be pleased.’
“等专家来了，我就知道了关于波莉安娜的一切，我会让你听到我的消息，”一个颤抖的声音说道。 “再见——谢谢你的到来。波莉安娜会很高兴的。

CHAPTER XXV. A WAITING GAME
第二十五章。一场等待的游戏

On the day after John Pendleton’s call at the Harrington homestead, Miss Polly set herself to the task of preparing Pollyanna for the visit of the specialist.
约翰·彭德尔顿拜访哈林顿庄园的第二天，波莉小姐就开始着手准备波莉安娜迎接专家的来访。

‘Pollyanna, my dear,’ she began gently, ‘we have decided that we want another doctor besides Dr. Warren to see you. Another one might tell us something new to do—to help you get well faster, you know.’
“乐观，亲爱的，”她温柔地说，“我们决定除了沃伦医生之外还需要另一位医生来给你看病。另一位可能会告诉我们一些新的事情要做——帮助你更快康复，你知道的。

A joyous light came to Pollyanna’s face.
波莉安娜的脸上闪现出喜悦的光芒。

‘Dr. Chilton! Oh, Aunt Polly, I’d so love to have Dr. Chilton! I’ve wanted him all the time, but I was afraid you didn’t, on account of his seeing you in the sun parlor that day, you know; so I didn’t like to say anything. But I’m so glad you do want him!’
‘博士。奇尔顿！哦，波莉阿姨，我非常希望有奇尔顿医生！我一直想要他，但我担心你不想要他，因为那天他在阳光客厅看到了你，你知道；所以我什么也不想说。但我很高兴你确实想要他！

Aunt Polly’s face had turned white, then red, then back to white again. But when she answered, she showed very plainly that she was trying to speak lightly and cheerfully.
波莉姨妈的脸色先变白，然后变红，然后又变白。但当她回答的时候，却很明显地表现出了她试图轻松愉快地说话。

‘Oh, no, dear! It wasn’t Dr. Chilton at all that I meant. It is a new doctor—a very famous doctor from New York, who—who knows a great deal about—about hurts like yours.’
‘噢，不，亲爱的！我的意思根本不是奇尔顿博士。这是一位新医生——一位来自纽约的非常有名的医生，他对像你这样的疼痛了解很多。

Pollyanna’s face fell.
波莉安娜的脸沉了下来。

‘I don’t believe he knows half so much as Dr. Chilton.’
“我不相信他知道的知识只有奇尔顿博士的一半。”

‘Oh, yes, he does, I’m sure, dear.’
“哦，是的，他确实这么做了，我确信，亲爱的。”

‘But it was Dr. Chilton who doctored Mr. Pendleton’s broken leg, Aunt Polly. If—if you don’t mind VERY much, I WOULD LIKE to have Dr. Chilton—truly I would!’
“但是，波莉姨妈，治疗彭德尔顿先生断腿的是奇尔顿医生。”如果——如果你不太介意的话，我想要奇尔顿医生——我真的愿意！”

A distressed color suffused Miss Polly’s face. For a moment she did not speak at all; then she said gently—though yet with a touch of her old stern decisiveness:
波莉小姐的脸上充满了痛苦的色彩。她一时没有说话。然后她温柔地说——尽管带着她往日的严厉果断：

‘But I do mind, Pollyanna. I mind very much. I would do anything—almost anything for you, my dear; but I—for reasons which I do not care to speak of now, I don’t wish Dr. Chilton called in on—on this case. And believe me, he can NOT know so much about—about your trouble, as this great doctor does, who will come from New York to-morrow.’
“但我确实介意，波莉安娜。我很介意。我愿意为你做任何事——几乎任何事，亲爱的；但我——由于我现在不想谈的原因，我不希望奇尔顿医生来介入——处理这个案子。相信我，他不可能像这位明天从纽约来的伟大医生那样了解你的麻烦。

Pollyanna still looked unconvinced.
波莉安娜看上去仍然不相信。

‘But, Aunt Polly, if you LOVED Dr. Chilton—‘
“但是，波莉阿姨，如果你爱奇尔顿医生——”

‘WHAT, Pollyanna?’ Aunt Polly’s voice was very sharp now. Her cheeks were very red, too.
“什么，波莉安娜？”波莉姨妈的声音现在非常尖利。她的脸颊也红得很厉害。

‘I say, if you loved Dr. Chilton, and didn’t love the other one,’ sighed Pollyanna, ‘seems to me that would make some difference in the good he would do; and I love Dr. Chilton.’
“我说，如果你爱奇尔顿医生，而不爱另一个医生，”波莉安娜叹了口气，“在我看来，这会对他所做的善事产生一些影响；但是，如果你爱奇尔顿医生，而不爱另一个医生，那么在我看来，这会对他所做的善事产生一些影响。”我爱奇尔顿博士。”

The nurse entered the room at that moment, and Aunt Polly rose to her feet abruptly, a look of relief on her face.
就在这时，护士走进了房间，波莉阿姨猛地站了起来，脸上露出如释重负的表情。

‘I am very sorry, Pollyanna,’ she said, a little stiffly; ‘but I’m afraid you’ll have to let me be the judge, this time. Besides, it’s already arranged. The New York doctor is coming to-morrow.’
“我很抱歉，波莉安娜，”她有点僵硬地说。 “但恐怕这一次你必须让我来评判。”更何况，已经安排好了。纽约医生明天就来。”

As it happened, however, the New York doctor did not come ‘to-morrow.’ At the last moment a telegram told of an unavoidable delay owing to the sudden illness of the specialist himself. This led Pollyanna into a renewed pleading for the substitution of Dr. Chilton—‘which would be so easy now, you know.’
然而，碰巧的是，这位纽约医生“明天”没有来。在最后一刻，一封电报称，由于这位专家本人突然患病，延误不可避免。这导致波莉安娜重新恳求奇尔顿博士的替代——“你知道，现在这很容易了。”

But as before, Aunt Polly shook her head and said ‘no, dear,’ very decisively, yet with a still more anxious assurance that she would do anything—anything but that—to please her dear Pollyanna.
但和以前一样，波莉姨妈摇摇头，非常果断地说“不，亲爱的”，但她更加焦急地保证，她会做任何事——除了那样——来取悦她亲爱的波莉安娜。

As the days of waiting passed, one by one, it did indeed, seem that Aunt Polly was doing everything (but that) that she could do to please her niece.
随着等待的日子一天天过去，波莉姨妈确实似乎正在尽她所能做的一切（除了那件事）来取悦她的侄女。

‘I wouldn’t ‘a’ believed it—you couldn’t ‘a’ made me believe it,’ Nancy said to Old Tom one morning. ‘There don’t seem ter be a minute in the day that Miss Polly ain’t jest hangin’ ‘round waitin’ ter do somethin’ for that blessed lamb if ‘tain’t more than ter let in the cat—an’ her what wouldn’t let Fluff nor Buff up-stairs for love nor money a week ago; an’ now she lets ‘em tumble all over the bed jest ‘cause it pleases Miss Pollyanna!
“我不会相信——你不可能让我相信，”一天早上南希对老汤姆说。 “波莉小姐似乎没有一刻不开玩笑，等着那只受祝福的羔羊做点什么，只要让猫进来——然后她”一周前，有什么理由不让绒毛和巴夫为了爱情和金钱而上楼呢？现在她让他们在床上翻滚，因为这让波莉安娜小姐高兴！

‘An’ when she ain’t doin’ nothin’ else, she’s movin’ them little glass danglers ‘round ter diff’rent winders in the room so the sun’ll make the ‘rainbows dance,’ as that blessed child calls it. She’s sent Timothy down ter Cobb’s greenhouse three times for fresh flowers—an’ that besides all the posies fetched in ter her, too. An’ the other day, if I didn’t find her sittin’ ‘fore the bed with the nurse actually doin’ her hair, an’ Miss Pollyanna lookin’ on an’ bossin’ from the bed, her eyes all shinin’ an’ happy. An’ I declare ter goodness, if Miss Polly hain’t wore her hair like that every day now—jest ter please that blessed child!’
当她不做其他事情的时候，她就会把这些小玻璃吊坠移动到房间里不同的绕线器上，这样阳光就会让“彩虹跳舞”，正如那个幸福的孩子所说的那样。她已经三次派蒂莫西去科布的温室买鲜花了——除了她带来的所有花束之外，也是如此。有一天，如果我没有发现她坐在床前，护士正在给她做头发，波莉安娜小姐就在床上看着老板，她的眼睛闪闪发亮。快乐的。 “我说天哪，如果波莉小姐现在不是每天都这样梳着头发的话——请那个有福的孩子吧！”

Old Tom chuckled.
老汤姆咯咯笑起来。

‘Well, it strikes me Miss Polly herself ain’t lookin’ none the worse—for wearin’ them ‘ere curls ‘round her forehead,’ he observed dryly.
“嗯，我觉得波莉小姐本人看起来并没有那么糟糕——因为在她额头上卷起卷发之前就戴上了它们，”他干巴巴地说。

‘ ‘Course she ain’t,’ retorted Nancy, indignantly. ‘She looks like FOLKS, now. She’s actually almost—‘
“‘她当然不是，’南希愤怒地反驳道。 “她现在看起来就像人们了。”她实际上几乎——”

‘Keerful, now, Nancy!’ interrupted the old man, with a slow grin. ‘You know what you said when I told ye she was handsome once.’
“现在很兴奋，南希！”老人打断了他的话，慢慢地咧嘴一笑。 “当我告诉你她很漂亮时，你知道你说了什么。”

Nancy shrugged her shoulders.
南希耸耸肩。

‘Oh, she ain’t handsome, of course; but I will own up she don’t look like the same woman, what with the ribbons an’ lace jiggers Miss Pollyanna makes her wear ‘round her neck.’
“哦，当然，她并不英俊；但她确实不漂亮。”但我承认她看起来不像同一个女人，波莉安娜小姐用丝带和蕾丝夹具让她戴在“脖子上”。

‘I told ye so,’ nodded the man. ‘I told ye she wa’n’t—old.’
“我已经告诉过你们了，”那人点点头。 “我告诉过你们她还——不老。”

Nancy laughed.
南希笑了。

‘Well, I’ll own up she HAIN’T got quite so good an imitation of it—as she did have, ‘fore Miss Pollyanna come. Say, Mr. Tom, who WAS her A lover? I hain’t found that out, yet; I hain’t, I hain’t!’
“好吧，我得承认，在波莉安娜小姐来之前，她并没有模仿得那么好——就像她所做的那样。”汤姆先生，你说，谁是她的情人？我还没有发现这一点；我没有，我没有！

‘Hain’t ye?’ asked the old man, with an odd look on his face. ‘Well, I guess ye won’t then from me.’
“不是吗？”老人问道，脸上的表情有些奇怪。 “好吧，我想你不会再离开我了。”

‘Oh, Mr. Tom, come on, now,’ wheedled the girl. ‘Ye see, there ain’t many folks here that I CAN ask.’
“哦，汤姆先生，来吧，现在，”女孩哄骗道。 “是的，我可以问的人并不多。”

‘Maybe not. But there’s one, anyhow, that ain’t answerin’,’ grinned Old Tom. Then, abruptly, the light died from his eyes. ‘How is she, ter-day—the little gal?’
'也许不会。但无论如何，有一个不会回答，”老汤姆咧嘴一笑。然后，突然，他眼中的光芒消失了。 “她今天怎么样——那个小女孩？”

Nancy shook her head. Her face, too, had sobered.
南希摇摇头。她的脸色也变得严肃起来。

‘Just the same, Mr. Tom. There ain’t no special diff’rence, as I can see—or anybody, I guess. She jest lays there an’ sleeps an’ talks some, an’ tries ter smile an’ be ‘glad’ ‘cause the sun sets or the moon rises, or some other such thing, till it’s enough ter make yer heart break with achin’.’
“还是一样，汤姆先生。正如我所看到的——或者我猜任何人都没有什么特别的区别。她开玩笑地躺在那里，睡觉，说话，尝试微笑，因为太阳落山或月亮升起而感到“高兴”，或者其他类似的事情，直到足以让你心碎为止。 .'

‘I know; it’s the ‘game’—bless her sweet heart!’ nodded Old Tom, blinking a little.
'我知道; “这就是‘游戏’——祝福她亲爱的心吧！”老汤姆点点头，眨了眨眼睛。

‘She told YOU, then, too, about that ‘ere—game?’
“那么，她也告诉过你关于那个‘这里——游戏？’的事情。”

‘Oh, yes. She told me long ago.’ The old man hesitated, then went on, his lips twitching a little. ‘I was growlin’ one day ‘cause I was so bent up and crooked; an’ what do ye s’pose the little thing said?’
'哦是的。她很早就告诉我了。”老人犹豫了一下，嘴唇微微抽动，继续说道。 “有一天，我咆哮着，因为我弯得那么弯；” “你认为这个小东西说了什么？”

‘I couldn’t guess. I wouldn’t think she could find ANYTHIN’ about THAT ter be glad about!’
“我猜不出来。我认为她找不到任何值得高兴的事情！

‘She did. She said I could be glad, anyhow, that I didn’t have ter STOOP SO FAR TER DO MY WEEDIN’ ‘cause I was already bent part way over.’
'她做过。她说我很高兴，无论如何，我没有弯那么远去除草，因为我已经弯了一半了。

Nancy gave a wistful laugh.
南希发出一声渴望的笑声。

‘Well, I ain’t surprised, after all. You might know she’d find somethin’. We’ve been playin’ it—that game—since almost the first, ‘cause there wa’n’t no one else she could play it with—though she did speak of—her aunt.’
“好吧，毕竟我并不感到惊讶。你可能知道她会找到一些东西。我们几乎从第一次开始就一直在玩这个游戏，因为没有其他人可以和她一起玩，尽管她确实提到了她的姨妈。

‘MISS POLLY!’
“波莉小姐！”

Nancy chuckled.
南希咯咯笑起来。

‘I guess you hain’t got such an awful diff’rent opinion o’ the mistress than I have,’ she bridled.
“我想你对女主人的看法不会和我有这么大的不同，”她怒斥道。

Old Tom stiffened.
老汤姆全身僵硬。

‘I was only thinkin’ ‘twould be—some of a surprise—to her,’ he explained with dignity.
“我只是想，这会给她带来一些惊喜，”他尊严地解释道。

‘Well, yes, I guess ‘twould be—THEN,’ retorted Nancy. ‘I ain’t sayin’ what ‘twould be NOW. I’d believe anythin’ o’ the mistress now—even that she’d take ter playin’ it herself!’
“嗯，是的，我想‘应该是——那么，’南希反驳道。 “我不是说现在会怎样。”现在我会相信女主人的任何事情——甚至她会自己玩！

‘But hain’t the little gal told her—ever? She’s told ev’ry one else, I guess. I’m hearin’ of it ev’rywhere, now, since she was hurted,’ said Tom.
“但是那个小女孩没有告诉过她吗——从来没有？我猜她已经告诉了其他所有人。自从她受伤以来，我现在到处都听到这件事，”汤姆说。

‘Well, she didn’t tell Miss Polly,’ rejoined Nancy. ‘Miss Pollyanna told me long ago that she couldn’t tell her, ‘cause her aunt didn’t like ter have her talk about her father; an’ ‘twas her father’s game, an’ she’d have ter talk about him if she did tell it. So she never told her.’
“嗯，她没有告诉波莉小姐，”南希回答道。 “波莉安娜小姐很久以前告诉我，她不能告诉她，因为她姨妈不喜欢让她谈论她的父亲；”这是她父亲的游戏，如果她真的说了，她就会谈论他。所以她从来没有告诉过她。

‘Oh, I see, I see.’ The old man nodded his head slowly. ‘They was always bitter against the minister chap—all of ‘em, ‘cause he took Miss Jennie away from ‘em. An’ Miss Polly—young as she was—couldn’t never forgive him; she was that fond of Miss Jennie—in them days. I see, I see. ‘Twas a bad mess,’ he sighed, as he turned away.
“哦，原来如此，原来如此。”老者缓缓点头。 “他们总是对部长小伙子怀恨在心——他们所有人，因为他把珍妮小姐从他们身边夺走了。”波莉小姐——尽管她还年轻——永远无法原谅他；她非常喜欢珍妮小姐——在那个时代。我明白了，我明白了。 “真是一团糟，”他转身走开时叹了口气。

‘Yes, ‘twas—all ‘round, all ‘round,’ sighed Nancy in her turn, as she went back to her kitchen.
“是的，是的——一切都是如此，一切都是如此，”轮到南希叹了口气，她回到了厨房。

For no one were those days of waiting easy. The nurse tried to look cheerful, but her eyes were troubled. The doctor was openly nervous and impatient. Miss Polly said little; but even the softening waves of hair about her face, and the becoming laces at her throat, could not hide the fact that she was growing thin and pale. As to Pollyanna—Pollyanna petted the dog, smoothed the cat’s sleek head, admired the flowers and ate the fruits and jellies that were sent in to her; and returned innumerable cheery answers to the many messages of love and inquiry that were brought to her bedside. But she, too, grew pale and thin; and the nervous activity of the poor little hands and arms only emphasized the pitiful motionlessness of the once active little feet and legs now lying so woefully quiet under the blankets.
因为等待的日子对任何人来说都不容易。护士努力装出高兴的样子，但眼神却充满了困扰。医生明显感到紧张和不耐烦。波莉小姐没说什么。但即使是她脸上那一头柔软的波浪发，还有她喉咙上的系带，都无法掩盖她日渐消瘦、苍白的事实。至于波莉安娜——波莉安娜抚摸着狗，抚摸着猫光滑的头，欣赏着鲜花，吃着送给她的水果和果冻；对于送到她床边的许多爱和询问的信息，她做出了无数愉快的答复。但她也变得苍白、消瘦。那些可怜的小手和小胳膊的紧张活动，只是强调了曾经活跃的小脚和小腿现在可怜地一动不动地躺在毯子下。

As to the game—Pollyanna told Nancy these days how glad she was going to be when she could go to school again, go to see Mrs. Snow, go to call on Mr. Pendleton, and go to ride with Dr. Chilton nor did she seem to realize that all this ‘gladness’ was in the future, not the present. Nancy, however, did realize it—and cry about it, when she was alone.
至于游戏——波莉安娜这些天告诉南希，当她能再次上学、去看望斯诺夫人、去看望彭德尔顿先生、和奇尔顿医生一起骑马时，她会多么高兴，她也没有这么做。她似乎意识到所有这些“快乐”都属于未来，而不是现在。然而，南希确实意识到了这一点，并在独自一人时为此哭泣。

CHAPTER XXVI. A DOOR AJAR
第二十六章。门半开着

Just a week from the time Dr. Mead, the specialist, was first expected, he came. He was a tall, broad-shouldered man with kind gray eyes, and a cheerful smile. Pollyanna liked him at once, and told him so.
距离专家米德医生第一次预计的时间仅一周，他就来了。他身材高大，肩膀宽阔，有一双慈祥的灰色眼睛，脸上挂着愉快的微笑。波莉安娜立刻喜欢上了他，并告诉了他。

‘You look quite a lot like MY doctor, you see,’ she added engagingly.
“你看起来很像我的医生，你看，”她迷人地补充道。

‘YOUR doctor?’ Dr. Mead glanced in evident surprise at Dr. Warren, talking with the nurse a few feet away. Dr. Warren was a small, brown-eyed man with a pointed brown beard.
“你的医生？”米德医生明显惊讶地看了一眼正在与几英尺外的护士交谈的沃伦医生。沃伦医生身材矮小，棕色眼睛，留着尖尖的棕色胡须。

‘Oh, THAT isn’t my doctor,’ smiled Pollyanna, divining his thought. ‘Dr. Warren is Aunt Polly’s doctor. My doctor is Dr. Chilton.’
“哦，那不是我的医生，”波莉安娜微笑着，猜出了他的想法。 ‘博士。沃伦是波莉阿姨的医生。我的医生是奇尔顿医生。

‘Oh-h!’ said Dr. Mead, a little oddly, his eyes resting on Miss Polly, who, with a vivid blush, had turned hastily away.
“哦——哈！”米德医生有点奇怪地说道，他的眼睛落在波莉小姐身上，波莉小姐脸色涨得通红，急忙转过身去。

‘Yes.’ Pollyanna hesitated, then continued with her usual truthfulness. ‘You see, I wanted Dr. Chilton all the time, but Aunt Polly wanted you. She said you knew more than Dr. Chilton, anyway about—about broken legs like mine. And of course if you do, I can be glad for that. Do you?’
“是的。”波莉安娜犹豫了一下，然后继续她一贯的诚实。 “你看，我一直想要奇尔顿医生，但波莉姨妈想要你。”她说你比奇尔顿医生更了解——关于像我这样的断腿。当然，如果你这样做，我会很高兴。你？'

A swift something crossed the doctor’s face that Pollyanna could not quite translate.
医生的脸上突然掠过了某种波莉安娜无法完全理解的东西。

‘Only time can tell that, little girl,’ he said gently; then he turned a grave face toward Dr. Warren, who had just come to the bedside.
“只有时间才能证明这一点，小女孩，”他温柔地说。然后他把脸转向刚刚来到床边的沃伦医生。

Every one said afterward that it was the cat that did it. Certainly, if Fluffy had not poked an insistent paw and nose against Pollyanna’s unlatched door, the door would not have swung noiselessly open on its hinges until it stood perhaps a foot ajar; and if the door had not been open, Pollyanna would not have heard her aunt’s words.
后来大家都说是那只猫干的。当然，如果毛毛没有坚持用爪子和鼻子戳波莉安娜未锁的门，门就不会在铰链上无声无息地打开，直到它半开一英尺；否则，门就不会无声无息地打开。如果门没有开着，波莉安娜就不会听到姨妈的话。

In the hall the two doctors, the nurse, and Miss Polly stood talking. In Pollyanna’s room Fluffy had just jumped to the bed with a little purring ‘meow’ of joy when through the open door sounded clearly and sharply Aunt Polly’s agonized exclamation.
大厅里，两位医生、护士和波莉小姐站着说话。在波莉安娜的房间里，毛毛刚刚跳到床上，高兴地发出“喵”的声音，这时从敞开的门里传来波莉姨妈痛苦的尖叫声，清晰而尖锐。

‘Not that! Doctor, not that! You don’t mean—the child—will NEVER WALK again!’
'不是那个！医生，不是这样的！你并不是说——孩子——再也不会走路了！”

It was all confusion then. First, from the bedroom came Pollyanna’s terrified ‘Aunt Polly Aunt Polly!’ Then Miss Polly, seeing the open door and realizing that her words had been heard, gave a low little moan and—for the first time in her life—fainted dead away.
那时一切都很混乱。首先，波莉安娜从卧室里传来了惊恐的“波莉阿姨波莉阿姨！”然后波莉小姐看到开着的门，意识到她的话被听到了，发出一声低沉的呻吟，然后——这是她一生中第一次——昏了过去。 。

The nurse, with a choking ‘She heard!’ stumbled toward the open door. The two doctors stayed with Miss Polly. Dr. Mead had to stay—he had caught Miss Polly as she fell. Dr. Warren stood by, helplessly. It was not until Pollyanna cried out again sharply and the nurse closed the door, that the two men, with a despairing glance into each other’s eyes, awoke to the immediate duty of bringing the woman in Dr. Mead’s arms back to unhappy consciousness.
护士带着哽咽的声音“她听到了！”跌跌撞撞地走向敞开的门。两位医生留在波莉小姐身边。米德医生必须留下来——波莉小姐摔倒时他接住了她。沃伦博士站在一旁，无能为力。直到波莉安娜再次大声喊叫，护士关上门，两个男人绝望地对视一眼，才醒悟过来，意识到自己有责任把米德医生怀里的女人带回不幸的意识中。

In Pollyanna’s room, the nurse had found a purring gray cat on the bed vainly trying to attract the attention of a white-faced, wild-eyed little girl.
在波莉安娜的房间里，护士发现床上有一只咕噜咕噜叫的灰猫，它试图吸引一个白脸大眼睛的小女孩的注意，但徒劳无功。

‘Miss Hunt, please, I want Aunt Polly. I want her right away, quick, please!’
“亨特小姐，拜托，我想要波莉姨妈。”我马上就要她，快点，拜托！”

The nurse closed the door and came forward hurriedly. Her face was very pale.
护士关上门，急忙上前。她的脸色非常苍白。

‘She—she can’t come just this minute, dear. She will—a little later. What is it? Can’t I—get it?’
“她——她现在不能来，亲爱的。她会的——稍后。它是什么？我不能——明白吗？

Pollyanna shook her head.
波莉安娜摇摇头。

‘But I want to know what she said—just now. Did you hear her? I want Aunt Polly—she said something. I want her to tell me ‘tisn’t true—‘tisn’t true!’
“但我想知道她刚才说了什么。你听到她的声音了吗？我想要波莉姨妈——她说了些什么。我希望她告诉我“这不是真的——‘这不是真的！’”

The nurse tried to speak, but no words came. Something in her face sent an added terror to Pollyanna’s eyes.
护士想说话，但没有说话。她脸上的某种东西让波莉安娜的眼睛更加恐惧。

‘Miss Hunt, you DID hear her! It is true! Oh, it isn’t true! You don’t mean I can’t ever—walk again?
“亨特小姐，你确实听到了她的声音！是真的！哦，这不是真的！你的意思是说我再也不能走路了？

‘There, there, dear—don’t, don’t!’ choked the nurse. ‘Perhaps he didn’t know. Perhaps he was mistaken. There’s lots of things that could happen, you know.’
“好了，好了，亲爱的——不要，不要！”护士哽咽道。 ‘也许他不知道。也许他错了。你知道，有很多事情可能发生。

‘But Aunt Polly said he did know! She said he knew more than anybody else about—about broken legs like mine!’
“但是波莉姨妈说他确实知道！”她说他比任何人都更了解——关于像我这样的断腿！”

‘Yes, yes, I know, dear; but all doctors make mistakes sometimes. Just—just don’t think any more about it now—please don’t, dear.’
“是的，是的，我知道，亲爱的；但所有医生有时都会犯错误。只是——现在就不要再想了——请不要再想了，亲爱的。”

Pollyanna flung out her arms wildly. ‘But I can’t help thinking about it,’ she sobbed. ‘It’s all there is now to think about. Why, Miss Hunt, how am I going to school, or to see Mr. Pendleton, or Mrs. Snow, or—or anybody?’ She caught her breath and sobbed wildly for a moment. Suddenly she stopped and looked up, a new terror in her eyes. ‘Why, Miss Hunt, if I can’t walk, how am I ever going to be glad for—ANYTHING?’
波莉安娜疯狂地伸出双臂。 “但我忍不住去想它，”她抽泣道。 ‘这就是现在要考虑的一切。为什么，亨特小姐，我怎么去学校，或者去见彭德尔顿先生，或者斯诺夫人，或者——或者任何人？”她屏住了呼吸，疯狂地抽泣了一会儿。突然，她停下来，抬起头，眼中出现了新的恐惧。 “为什么，亨特小姐，如果我不能走路，我怎么会因为——任何事情而感到高兴呢？”

Miss Hunt did not know ‘the game;’ but she did know that her patient must be quieted, and that at once. In spite of her own perturbation and heartache, her hands had not been idle, and she stood now at the bedside with the quieting powder ready.
亨特小姐不知道“游戏”；但她确实知道她的病人必须安静下来，而且必须立即安静下来。尽管她自己心烦意乱、心痛不已，但她的双手并没有闲着，她现在站在床边，准备好了镇静粉。

‘There, there, dear, just take this,’ she soothed; ‘and by and by we’ll be more rested, and we’ll see what can be done then. Things aren’t half as bad as they seem, dear, lots of times, you know.’
“好了，好了，亲爱的，拿着这个吧，”她安慰道。 “渐渐地，我们会得到更多的休息，然后我们会看看可以做什么。”事情并不像看起来那么糟糕，亲爱的，很多时候，你知道。

Obediently Pollyanna took the medicine, and sipped the water from the glass in Miss Hunt’s hand.
波莉安娜顺从地接过药，喝了亨特小姐手里杯子里的水。

‘I know; that sounds like things father used to say,’ faltered Pollyanna, blinking off the tears. ‘He said there was always something about everything that might be worse; but I reckon he’d never just heard he couldn’t ever walk again. I don’t see how there CAN be anything about that, that could be worse—do you?’
'我知道; “这听起来就像父亲以前常说的话。”波莉安娜支支吾吾地说，眨着眼睛不让泪水流下来。 “他说，凡事总有可能变得更糟的事情；但我估计他从来没有听说过他再也不能走路了。我不明白这怎么可能，这可能会更糟——你觉得呢？

Miss Hunt did not reply. She could not trust herself to speak just then.
亨特小姐没有回答。她不敢相信自己此时能开口说话。

CHAPTER XXVII. TWO VISITS
第二十七章。两次访问

It was Nancy who was sent to tell Mr. John Pendleton of Dr. Mead’s verdict. Miss Polly had remembered her promise to let him have direct information from the house. To go herself, or to write a letter, she felt to be almost equally out of the question. It occurred to her then to send Nancy.
南希被派去告诉约翰·彭德尔顿先生米德医生的判决。波莉小姐记得她曾许诺让他从房子里得到直接的信息。她觉得自己去或写信几乎同样是不可能的。这时她想到要送南希去。

There had been a time when Nancy would have rejoiced greatly at this extraordinary opportunity to see something of the House of Mystery and its master. But to-day her heart was too heavy to, rejoice at anything. She scarcely even looked about her at all, indeed, during the few minutes, she waited for Mr. John Pendleton to appear.
曾经有一段时间，南希会因为有这个难得的机会来了解神秘之屋及其主人而感到非常高兴。但今天她的心情太沉重了，无法为任何事情高兴。事实上，在这几分钟里，她几乎没有环顾四周，等待约翰·彭德尔顿先生出现。

‘I’m Nancy, sir,’ she said respectfully, in response to the surprised questioning of his eyes, when he came into the room. ‘Miss Harrington sent me to tell you about—Miss Pollyanna.’
“我是南希，先生，”当他走进房间时，她恭敬地说，回应他惊讶的询问眼神。 “哈灵顿小姐派我来告诉你——波莉安娜小姐的事。”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

In spite of the curt terseness of the word, Nancy quite understood the anxiety that lay behind that short ‘well?’
尽管这个词很简短，但南希很理解这句简短的“嗯？”背后隐藏着的焦虑。

‘It ain’t well, Mr. Pendleton,’ she choked.
“不太好，彭德尔顿先生，”她哽咽道。

‘You don’t mean—‘ He paused, and she bowed her head miserably.
“你的意思是——”他停顿了一下，她痛苦地低下了头。

‘Yes, sir. He says—she can’t walk again—never.’
'是的先生。他说——她再也不能走路了——永远不会。

For a moment there was absolute silence in the room; then the man spoke, in a voice shaken with emotion.
房间里一时间鸦雀无声。然后那个男人说话了，声音因激动而颤抖。

‘Poor—little—girl! Poor—little—girl!’
‘可怜的——小——女孩！可怜的小女孩！

Nancy glanced at him, but dropped her eyes at once. She had not supposed that sour, cross, stern John Pendleton could look like that. In a moment he spoke again, still in the low, unsteady voice.
南希看了他一眼，但立刻垂下了目光。她没想到脾气暴躁、脾气暴躁、严厉的约翰·彭德尔顿会是这个样子。过了一会儿，他又开口了，声音仍然低沉、不稳定。

‘It seems cruel—never to dance in the sunshine again! My little prism girl!’
“这似乎很残酷——再也不能在阳光下跳舞了！”我的小棱镜女孩！

There was another silence; then, abruptly, the man asked:
又是一阵沉默。然后，男人突然问道：

‘She herself doesn’t know yet—of course—does she?’
“她自己还不知道——当然——是吗？”

‘But she does, sir.’ sobbed Nancy, ‘an’ that’s what makes it all the harder. She found out—drat that cat! I begs yer pardon,’ apologized the girl, hurriedly. ‘It’s only that the cat pushed open the door an’ Miss Pollyanna overheard ‘em talkin’. She found out—that way.’
“但她确实这么做了，先生。”南希抽泣着，“这就是让事情变得更加困难的原因。”她发现——该死的那只猫！对不起，”女孩连忙道歉。 “只是那只猫推开了门，”波莉安娜小姐无意中听到了“他们在说话”。她发现了——就是这样。

‘Poor—little—girl!’ sighed the man again.
“可怜的——小——女孩！”男人又叹了口气。

‘Yes, sir. You’d say so, sir, if you could see her,’ choked Nancy. ‘I hain’t seen her but twice since she knew about it, an’ it done me up both times. Ye see it’s all so fresh an’ new to her, an’ she keeps thinkin’ all the time of new things she can’t do—NOW. It worries her, too, ‘cause she can’t seem ter be glad—maybe you don’t know about her game, though,’ broke off Nancy, apologetically.
'是的先生。先生，如果你能看到她，你就会这么说。”南希哽咽道。 “自从她知道这件事以来，我只见过她两次，两次都让我很伤心。”你看，这一切对她来说都是那么新鲜，她一直在思考她现在不能做的新事情。这也让她担心，因为她看起来并不高兴——不过，也许你不了解她的比赛，”南希抱歉地打断道。

‘The ‘glad game’?’ asked the man. ‘Oh, yes; she told me of that.’
“‘快乐游戏’？”那人问道。 '哦是的;她告诉我的。

‘Oh, she did! Well, I guess she has told it generally ter most folks. But ye see, now she—she can’t play it herself, an’ it worries her. She says she can’t think of a thing—not a thing about this not walkin’ again, ter be glad about.’
哦，她做到了！嗯，我想她已经告诉了大多数人。但你看，现在她——她自己不能弹奏，这让她很担心。她说她什么也想不起来——不想再走路了，对此感到高兴。

‘Well, why should she?’ retorted the man, almost savagely.
“好吧，她为什么要这么做呢？”男人近乎野蛮地反驳道。

Nancy shifted her feet uneasily.
南希不安地移动着她的脚。

‘That’s the way I felt, too—till I happened ter think—it WOULD be easier if she could find somethin’, ye know. So I tried to—to remind her.’
“我也是这么想的——直到我碰巧想到——如果她能找到一些东西就会更容易”，你知道。所以我试图提醒她。

‘To remind her! Of what?’ John Pendleton’s voice was still angrily impatient.
‘为了提醒她！什么？”约翰·彭德尔顿的声音仍然充满愤怒和不耐烦。

‘Of—of how she told others ter play it Mis’ Snow, and the rest, ye know—and what she said for them ter do. But the poor little lamb just cries, an’ says it don’t seem the same, somehow. She says it’s easy ter TELL lifelong invalids how ter be glad, but ‘tain’t the same thing when you’re the lifelong invalid yerself, an’ have ter try ter do it. She says she’s told herself over an’ over again how glad she is that other folks ain’t like her; but that all the time she’s sayin’ it, she ain’t really THINKIN’ of anythin’ only how she can’t ever walk again.’
‘关于——关于她如何告诉别人要玩这个游戏，《雪诺小姐》，以及其余的，你们知道的——以及她对他们所说的要做的事情。但可怜的小羊羔只是哭了，说它似乎不一样了。她说，告诉终生残疾人如何感到高兴很容易，但“当你自己是终生残疾人时，事情就不一样了，”你必须尝试这样做。她说她一遍又一遍地告诉自己，她很高兴其他人不像她；但她一直这么说，其实并没有真正想到任何事情，只想着她如何再也不能走路了。

Nancy paused, but the man did not speak. He sat with his hand over his eyes.
南希停顿了一下，但那人没有说话。他坐着，用手捂住眼睛。

‘Then I tried ter remind her how she used ter say the game was all the nicer ter play when—when it was hard,’ resumed Nancy, in a dull voice. ‘But she says that, too, is diff’rent—when it really IS hard. An’ I must be goin’, now, sir,’ she broke off abruptly.
“然后我试图提醒她，她曾经说过，当困难的时候，这个游戏玩起来会更好，”南希用沉闷的声音继续说道。 “但她说这也是不同的——当这确实很困难时。” “我现在必须走了，先生，”她突然打住了。

At the door she hesitated, turned, and asked timidly:
到了门口，她犹豫了一下，转身胆怯地问道：

‘I couldn’t be tellin’ Miss Pollyanna that—that you’d seen Jimmy Bean again, I s’pose, sir, could I?’
“我不能告诉波莉安娜小姐——我猜你又见到了吉米·比恩，先生，可以吗？”

‘I don’t see how you could—as I haven’t seen him,’ observed the man a little shortly. ‘Why?’
“我不明白你怎么能这么做——因为我还没见过他。”那人简短地说。 '为什么？'

‘Nothin’, sir, only—well, ye see, that’s one of the things that she was feelin’ bad about, that she couldn’t take him ter see you, now. She said she’d taken him once, but she didn’t think he showed off very well that day, and that she was afraid you didn’t think he would make a very nice child’s presence, after all. Maybe you know what she means by that; but I didn’t, sir.’
“没什么，先生，只是——好吧，你看，这是她感到难过的事情之一，她现在不能带他见你。她说她带过他一次，但她认为那天他表现得不太好，而且她担心你认为他毕竟不会成为一个很好的孩子。也许你知道她这句话的意思；但我没有，先生。”

‘Yes, I know—what she means.’
“是的，我知道——她的意思。”

‘All right, sir. It was only that she was wantin’ ter take him again, she said, so’s ter show ye he really was a lovely child’s presence. And now she—can’t—drat that autymobile! I begs yer pardon, sir. Good-by!’ And Nancy fled precipitately.
“好吧，先生。她说，只是她想再次带走他，所以我要让你们知道他确实是一个可爱的孩子。现在她——不能——拖那辆汽车了！请您原谅，先生。再见！”说完，南希就匆匆逃走了。

It did not take long for the entire town of Beldingsville to learn that the great New York doctor had said Pollyanna Whittier would never walk again; and certainly never before had the town been so stirred. Everybody knew by sight now the piquant little freckled face that had always a smile of greeting; and almost everybody knew of the ‘game’ that Pollyanna was playing. To think that now never again would that smiling face be seen on their streets—never again would that cheery little voice proclaim the gladness of some everyday experience! It seemed unbelievable, impossible, cruel.
没过多久，整个贝尔丁斯维尔镇就知道这位伟大的纽约医生曾说过波莉安娜·惠蒂尔再也不能走路了；当然，这座小镇以前从未如此激动过。现在每个人都一眼就认出了这张调皮的、长着雀斑的小脸，脸上总是挂着打招呼的微笑。几乎每个人都知道波莉安娜正在玩的“游戏”。想想看，现在他们的街道上再也不会看到那张笑脸了——再也不会有那个欢快的小声音宣告着一些日常经历的快乐！这似乎令人难以置信、不可能、残酷。

In kitchens and sitting rooms, and over back-yard fences women talked of it, and wept openly. On street corners and in store lounging-places the men talked, too, and wept—though not so openly. And neither the talking nor the weeping grew less when fast on the heels of the news itself, came Nancy’s pitiful story that Pollyanna, face to face with what had come to her, was bemoaning most of all the fact that she could not play the game; that she could not now be glad over—anything.
在厨房、客厅和后院的栅栏外，女人们谈论着这件事，并公开哭泣。在街角和商店休息处，男人们也有说话，也有哭泣——尽管不那么公开。紧接着新闻本身，南希讲述了波莉安娜的悲惨故事，无论是谈话还是哭泣都没有减少，波莉安娜面对着她所面临的一切，最哀叹的是她不能玩这个游戏。 ;她现在不能为任何事感到高兴。

It was then that the same thought must have, in some way, come to Pollyanna’s friends. At all events, almost at once, the mistress of the Harrington homestead, greatly to her surprise, began to receive calls: calls from people she knew, and people she did not know; calls from men, women, and children—many of whom Miss Polly had not supposed that her niece knew at all.
就在那时，波莉安娜的朋友们一定也以某种方式产生了同样的想法。无论如何，哈林顿庄园的女主人几乎立刻就接到了电话，这让她大吃一惊：有认识的人打来的，也有不认识的人打来的；男人、女人和孩子们打来电话——波莉小姐以为她的侄女根本不认识其中许多人。

Some came in and sat down for a stiff five or ten minutes. Some stood awkwardly on the porch steps, fumbling with hats or hand-bags, according to their sex. Some brought a book, a bunch of flowers, or a dainty to tempt the palate. Some cried frankly. Some turned their backs and blew their noses furiously. But all inquired very anxiously for the little injured girl; and all sent to her some message—and it was these messages which, after a time, stirred Miss Polly to action.
有些人走进来，僵硬地坐了五到十分钟。有些人尴尬地站在门廊台阶上，根据性别摸索着帽子或手提包。有些人带来了一本书、一束鲜花或美味佳肴来诱惑味蕾。有些人坦率地哭了。有些人转过身去，猛烈地擤鼻涕。但所有人都非常焦急地询问受伤的小女孩的情况。大家都给她发了一些信息——过了一段时间，正是这些信息激起了波莉小姐的行动。

First came Mr. John Pendleton. He came without his crutches to-day.
首先是约翰·彭德尔顿先生。他今天来时没有拐杖。

‘I don’t need to tell you how shocked I am,’ he began almost harshly. ‘But can—nothing be done?’
“我不需要告诉你我有多震惊，”他几乎严厉地说。 “但是能——什么都不做吗？”

Miss Polly gave a gesture of despair.
波莉小姐做了一个绝望的手势。

‘Oh, we’re ‘doing,’ of course, all the time. Dr. Mead prescribed certain treatments and medicines that might help, and Dr. Warren is carrying them out to the letter, of course. But—Dr. Mead held out almost no hope.’
“哦，当然，我们一直在‘做’。米德医生开了一些可能有帮助的治疗方法和药物，当然，沃伦医生正在严格执行这些治疗方法和药物。但是——博士。米德几乎不抱任何希望。

John Pendleton rose abruptly—though he had but just come. His face was white, and his mouth was set into stern lines. Miss Polly, looking at him, knew very well why he felt that he could not stay longer in her presence. At the door he turned.
约翰·彭德尔顿突然站了起来——尽管他才刚刚来。他的脸色惨白，嘴角也抿成一条线。波莉小姐看着他，很清楚为什么他觉得不能在她面前多待一会儿。到了门口他转身。

‘I have a message for Pollyanna,’ he said. ‘Will you tell her, please, that I have seen Jimmy Bean and—that he’s going to be my boy hereafter. Tell her I thought she would be—GLAD to know. I shall adopt him, probably.’
“我有话要告诉波莉安娜，”他说。 “请你告诉她，我见过吉米·比恩，而且——他以后将是我的孩子。”告诉她我想她会——很高兴知道。也许我会收养他。

For a brief moment Miss Polly lost her usual well-bred self-control.
有那么一会儿，波莉小姐失去了她一贯有教养的自制力。

‘You will adopt Jimmy Bean!’ she gasped.
“你会收养吉米·比恩！”她喘着气说。

The man lifted his chin a little.
男人微微抬起下巴。

‘Yes. I think Pollyanna will understand. You will tell her I thought she would be—GLAD!’
'是的。我想波莉安娜会理解的。你会告诉她我以为她会——很高兴！

‘Why, of—of course,’ faltered Miss Polly.
“为什么，当然——当然，”波莉小姐结结巴巴地说。

‘Thank you,’ bowed John Pendleton, as he turned to go.
“谢谢，”约翰·彭德尔顿鞠了一躬，转身准备离开。

In the middle of the floor Miss Polly stood, silent and amazed, still looking after the man who had just left her. Even yet she could scarcely believe what her ears had heard. John Pendleton ADOPT Jimmy Bean? John Pendleton, wealthy, independent, morose, reputed to be miserly and supremely selfish, to adopt a little boy—and such a little boy?
波莉小姐站在地板中央，沉默而惊讶，仍然看着刚刚离开她的男人。即便如此，她还是不敢相信自己的耳朵所听到的。约翰·彭德尔顿收养吉米·比恩？约翰·彭德尔顿（John Pendleton），一个富有、独立、郁郁寡欢、以吝啬和极其自私着称的人，居然收养了一个小男孩——而且是这样一个小男孩？

With a somewhat dazed face Miss Polly went up-stairs to Pollyanna’s room.
波莉小姐一脸茫然地上楼来到波莉安娜的房间。

‘Pollyanna, I have a message for you from Mr. John Pendleton. He has just been here. He says to tell you he has taken Jimmy Bean for his little boy. He said he thought you’d be glad to know it.’
“波莉安娜，我有约翰·彭德尔顿先生给你的信息。他刚刚来过这里。他说要告诉你他已经把吉米·比恩当作他的小儿子了。他说他认为你会很高兴知道这一点。

Pollyanna’s wistful little face flamed into sudden joy.
波莉安娜那张渴望的小脸突然变得喜悦起来。

‘Glad? GLAD? Well, I reckon I am glad! Oh, Aunt Polly, I’ve so wanted to find a place for Jimmy—and that’s such a lovely place! Besides, I’m so glad for Mr. Pendleton, too. You see, now he’ll have the child’s presence.’
'高兴的？高兴的？嗯，我想我很高兴！哦，波莉阿姨，我很想为吉米找个地方——那是一个多么可爱的地方啊！此外，我也为彭德尔顿先生感到高兴。你瞧，现在孩子就在他身边了。”

‘The—what?’
“那——什么？”

Pollyanna colored painfully. She had forgotten that she had never told her aunt of Mr. Pendleton’s desire to adopt her—and certainly she would not wish to tell her now that she had ever thought for a minute of leaving her—this dear Aunt Polly!
波莉安娜脸色痛苦地变了。她忘记了，她从来没有告诉姨妈彭德尔顿先生想要收养她——当然，她现在也不想告诉她，因为她曾经想过要离开她——亲爱的波莉姨妈！

‘The child’s presence,’ stammered Pollyanna, hastily. ‘Mr. Pendleton told me once, you see, that only a woman’s hand and heart or a child’s presence could make a—a home. And now he’s got it—the child’s presence.’
“孩子在场。”波莉安娜急忙结结巴巴地说。 '先生。你看，彭德尔顿曾经告诉我，只有女人的手和心，或者孩子的存在才能建造一个——一个家。现在他明白了——孩子的存在。

‘Oh, I—see,’ said Miss Polly very gently; and she did see—more than Pollyanna realized. She saw something of the pressure that was probably brought to bear on Pollyanna herself at the time John Pendleton was asking HER to be the ‘child’s presence,’ which was to transform his great pile of gray stone into a home. ‘I see,’ she finished, her eyes stinging with sudden tears.
“哦，我——明白了，”波莉小姐非常温柔地说。她确实看到了——比波莉安娜意识到的还要多。当约翰·彭德尔顿要求波莉安娜成为“孩子的存在”时，她看到了波莉安娜身上可能承受的压力，即将他那一大堆灰色的石头变成了一个家。 “我明白了，”她说完，泪水突然刺痛了她的眼睛。

Pollyanna, fearful that her aunt might ask further embarrassing questions, hastened to lead the conversation away from the Pendleton house and its master.
波莉安娜担心姨妈可能会问出更多令人尴尬的问题，于是赶紧把话题从彭德尔顿家和主人身上引开。

‘Dr. Chilton says so, too—that it takes a woman’s hand and heart, or a child’s presence, to make a home, you know,’ she remarked.
‘博士。奇尔顿也这么说——你知道，需要女人的手和心，或者孩子的存在，才能建立一个家，”她说。

Miss Polly turned with a start.
波莉小姐猛地转过身来。

‘DR. CHILTON! How do you know—that?’
‘博士。奇尔顿！你怎么知道？'

‘He told me so. ‘Twas when he said he lived in just rooms, you know—not a home.’
‘他是这么告​​诉我的。 “当时他说他只住在房间里，你知道，而不是家。”

Miss Polly did not answer. Her eyes were out the window.
波莉小姐没有回答。她的眼睛望向窗外。

‘So I asked him why he didn’t get ‘em.—a woman’s hand and heart, and have a home.’
“所以我问他为什么不得到它们——女人的手和心，还有一个家。”

‘Pollyanna!’ Miss Polly had turned sharply. Her cheeks showed a sudden color.
“盲目乐观！”波莉小姐猛地转过身来。她的脸颊顿时泛起血色。

‘Well, I did. He looked so—so sorrowful.’
‘嗯，我做到了。他看起来那么——那么悲伤。”

‘What did he—say?’ Miss Polly asked the question as if in spite of some force within her that was urging her not to ask it.
“他——说什么？”波莉小姐还是问了这个问题，仿佛她内心有一股力量在催促她不要问这个问题。

‘He didn’t say anything for a minute; then he said very low that you couldn’t always get ‘em for the asking.’
“他有一会儿什么也没说；然后他很低声地说，你不可能总是得到“他们的要求。”

There was a brief silence. Miss Polly’s eyes had turned again to the window. Her cheeks were still unnaturally pink.
一阵短暂的沉默。波莉小姐的目光又转向了窗户。她的脸颊仍然是不自然的粉红色。

Pollyanna sighed.
波莉安娜叹了口气。

‘He wants one, anyhow, I know, and I wish he could have one.’
“无论如何，我知道他想要一个，我希望他能拥有一个。”

‘Why, Pollyanna, HOW do you know?’
“为什么，波莉安娜，你怎么知道？”

‘Because, afterwards, on another day, he said something else. He said that low, too, but I heard him. He said that he’d give all the world if he did have one woman’s hand and heart. Why, Aunt Polly, what’s the matter?’ Aunt Polly had risen hurriedly and gone to the window.
‘因为，后来，另一天，他说了别的话。他说得也很低，但我听到了。他说，如果他有一个女人的手和心，他愿意付出全世界。波莉姨妈，怎么了？”波莉姨妈急忙站起来，走到窗前。

‘Nothing, dear. I was changing the position of this prism,’ said Aunt Polly, whose whole face now was aflame.
'没有，亲爱的。我正在改变这个棱镜的位置。”波莉姨妈说，她的整张脸都在燃烧。

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE GAME AND ITS PLAYERS
第二十八章。游戏及其玩家

It was not long after John Pendleton’s second visit that Milly Snow called one afternoon. Milly Snow had never before been to the Harrington homestead. She blushed and looked very embarrassed when Miss Polly entered the room.
约翰·彭德尔顿第二次来访后不久，米莉·斯诺的一个下午打来电话。米莉·斯诺以前从未去过哈林顿庄园。当波莉小姐走进房间时，她脸红了，看上去很尴尬。

‘I—I came to inquire for the little girl,’ she stammered.
“我——我是来打听那个小女孩的。”她结结巴巴地说。

‘You are very kind. She is about the same. How is your mother?’ rejoined Miss Polly, wearily.
‘你很善良。她也差不多。你妈妈怎么样？”波莉小姐疲倦地问道。

‘That is what I came to tell you—that is, to ask you to tell Miss Pollyanna,’ hurried on the girl, breathlessly and incoherently. ‘We think it’s—so awful—so perfectly awful that the little thing can’t ever walk again; and after all she’s done for us, too—for mother, you know, teaching her to play the game, and all that. And when we heard how now she couldn’t play it herself—poor little dear! I’m sure I don’t see how she CAN, either, in her condition!—but when we remembered all the things she’d said to us, we thought if she could only know what she HAD done for us, that it would HELP, you know, in her own case, about the game, because she could be glad—that is, a little glad—‘ Milly stopped helplessly, and seemed to be waiting for Miss Polly to speak.
“这就是我来告诉你的——也就是说，请你告诉波莉安娜小姐。”女孩气喘吁吁、语无伦次地急忙说道。 “我们认为这太可怕了，太可怕了，这个小东西再也不能走路了；毕竟她也为我们做了很多事情——为了母亲，你知道，教她玩游戏等等。当我们听说她现在不能自己演奏时——可怜的小宝贝！我确信，在她的情况下，我也不明白她怎么能做到！——但当我们想起她对我们说过的所有事情时，我们想如果她能知道她为我们做了什么，那就好了你知道，就她自己而言，她会对这场游戏有所帮助，因为她会很高兴——也就是说，有点高兴——”米莉无助地停了下来，似乎在等待波莉小姐说话。

Miss Polly had sat politely listening, but with a puzzled questioning in her eyes. Only about half of what had been said, had she understood. She was thinking now that she always had known that Milly Snow was ‘queer,’ but she had not supposed she was crazy. In no other way, however, could she account for this incoherent, illogical, unmeaning rush of words. When the pause came she filled it with a quiet:
波莉小姐礼貌地坐着听着，但眼中却带着困惑的询问。她只听懂了大约一半的内容。她现在想，她一直都知道米莉·斯诺是个“怪人”，但她没想到她疯了。然而，除此之外，她无法解释这种语无伦次、不合逻辑、毫无意义的言论。当停顿到来时，她充满了安静：

‘I don’t think I quite understand, Milly. Just what is it that you want me to tell my niece?’
“我想我不太明白，米莉。你到底想让我告诉我侄女什么？

‘Yes, that’s it; I want you to tell her,’ answered the girl, feverishly. ‘Make her see what she’s done for us. Of course she’s SEEN some things, because she’s been there, and she’s known mother is different; but I want her to know HOW different she is—and me, too. I’m different. I’ve been trying to play it—the game—a little.’
'对，就是那样;我要你告诉她，”女孩狂热地回答。 ‘让她看看她为我们做了什么。当然，她看到了一些事情，因为她去过那里，而且她知道母亲是不同的；她看到了一些事情。但我想让她知道她有多么不同——还有我。我与众不同。我一直在尝试玩一点这个游戏。

Miss Polly frowned. She would have asked what Milly meant by this ‘game,’ but there was no opportunity. Milly was rushing on again with nervous volubility.
波莉小姐皱起了眉头。她本来想问米莉这个‘游戏’是什么意思，但没有机会。米莉又开始紧张地说话了。

‘You know nothing was ever right before—for mother. She was always wanting ‘em different. And, really, I don’t know as one could blame her much—under the circumstances. But now she lets me keep the shades up, and she takes interest in things—how she looks, and her nightdress, and all that. And she’s actually begun to knit little things—reins and baby blankets for fairs and hospitals. And she’s so interested, and so GLAD to think she can do it!—and that was all Miss Pollyanna’s doings, you know, ‘cause she told mother she could be glad she’d got her hands and arms, anyway; and that made mother wonder right away why she didn’t DO something with her hands and arms. And so she began to do something—to knit, you know. And you can’t think what a different room it is now, what with the red and blue and yellow worsteds, and the prisms in the window that SHE gave her—why, it actually makes you feel BETTER just to go in there now; and before I used to dread it awfully, it was so dark and gloomy, and mother was so—so unhappy, you know.
“你知道，对于母亲来说，以前一切都不对劲。她总是希望他们与众不同。而且，说实话，我不知道在这种情况下人们是否可以责怪她。但现在她让我把窗帘打开，她对事物感兴趣——她的外表、她的睡衣，等等。她实际上已经开始为集市和医院编织小东西——缰绳和婴儿毯。她很感兴趣，很高兴认为自己能做到！——这就是波莉安娜小姐所做的一切，你知道，因为她告诉妈妈，不管怎样，她会很高兴自己能拥有自己的手和手臂；这让母亲立刻想知道为什么她不用手和手臂做点什么。于是她开始做一些事情——编织，你知道的。你无法想象现在这是一个多么不同的房间，有红色、蓝色和黄色的毛呢，还有她给她的窗户上的棱镜——为什么，现在走进去实际上让你感觉好多了；在我以前非常害怕它之前，它是那么黑暗和阴沉，你知道，母亲是那么——那么不高兴。

‘And so we want you to please tell Miss Pollyanna that we understand it’s all because of her. And please say we’re so glad we know her, that we thought, maybe if she knew it, it would make her a little glad that she knew us. And—and that’s all,’ sighed Milly, rising hurriedly to her feet. ‘You’ll tell her?’
“所以我们希望你告诉波莉安娜小姐，我们明白这一切都是因为她。”请说我们很高兴认识她，我们想，也许如果她知道的话，她会因为认识我们而感到有点高兴。而且——仅此而已。”米莉叹了口气，急忙站了起来。 “你会告诉她吗？”

‘Why, of course,’ murmured Miss Polly, wondering just how much of this remarkable discourse she could remember to tell.
“当然，”波莉小姐低声说道，她想知道自己到底能记得讲多少这段精彩的演讲。

These visits of John Pendleton and Milly Snow were only the first of many; and always there were the messages—the messages which were in some ways so curious that they caused Miss Polly more and more to puzzle over them.
约翰·彭德尔顿和米莉·斯诺的访问只是众多访问中的第一次。总是有一些信息——这些信息在某些方面是如此好奇，以至于让波莉小姐越来越困惑。

One day there was the little Widow Benton. Miss Polly knew her well, though they had never called upon each other. By reputation she knew her as the saddest little woman in town—one who was always in black. To-day, however, Mrs. Benton wore a knot of pale blue at the throat, though there were tears in her eyes. She spoke of her grief and horror at the accident; then she asked diffidently if she might see Pollyanna.
有一天，小寡妇本顿来了。波莉小姐很了解她，尽管她们从未互相拜访过。据她所知，她是镇上最悲伤的小女人——一个总是穿着黑色衣服的女人。然而今天，本顿夫人的喉咙处打了一个淡蓝色的结，尽管她的眼里含着泪水。她谈到了对这起事故的悲痛和恐惧。然后她怯生生地问她是否可以见到波莉安娜。

Miss Polly shook her head.
波莉小姐摇摇头。

‘I am sorry, but she sees no one yet. A little later—perhaps.’
“我很抱歉，但她还没看到任何人。稍后——也许吧。

Mrs. Benton wiped her eyes, rose, and turned to go. But after she had almost reached the hall door she came back hurriedly.
本顿夫人擦了擦眼睛，站起身来，转身要走。但快到厅门口时，她又急忙回来了。

‘Miss Harrington, perhaps, you’d give her—a message,’ she stammered.
“哈灵顿小姐，也许你应该给她——一条信息，”她结结巴巴地说。

‘Certainly, Mrs. Benton; I shall be very glad to.’
“当然可以，本顿夫人；我会很高兴的。

Still the little woman hesitated; then she spoke.
小女人仍然犹豫不决。然后她说话了。

‘Will you tell her, please, that—that I’ve put on THIS,’ she said, just touching the blue bow at her throat. Then, at Miss Polly’s ill-concealed look of surprise, she added: ‘The little girl has been trying for so long to make me wear—some color, that I thought she’d be—glad to know I’d begun. She said that Freddy would be so glad to see it, if I would. You know Freddy’s ALL I have now. The others have all—‘ Mrs. Benton shook her head and turned away. ‘If you’ll just tell Pollyanna—SHE’LL understand.’ And the door closed after her.
“请你告诉她，我已经穿上了这个，”她说，只是碰了碰喉咙上的蓝色蝴蝶结。然后，看到波莉小姐毫不掩饰的惊讶表情，她补充道：“这个小女孩长期以来一直试图让我穿某种颜色的衣服，我想她会很高兴知道我开始了。她说如果我愿意的话，弗雷迪会很高兴看到它。你知道弗雷迪是我现在所拥有的一切。其他人都——”本顿夫人摇摇头，转身走开。 “如果你告诉波莉安娜——她就会明白的。”门在她身后关上了。

A little later, that same day, there was the other widow—at least, she wore widow’s garments. Miss Polly did not know her at all. She wondered vaguely how Pollyanna could have known her. The lady gave her name as ‘Mrs. Tarbell.’
过了一会儿，同一天，另一个寡妇出现了——至少，她穿着寡妇的衣服。波莉小姐根本不认识她。她隐隐约约地想知道波莉安娜是怎么认识她的。这位女士自称“夫人”。塔贝尔。”

‘I’m a stranger to you, of course,’ she began at once. ‘But I’m not a stranger to your little niece, Pollyanna. I’ve been at the hotel all summer, and every day I’ve had to take long walks for my health. It was on these walks that I’ve met your niece—she’s such a dear little girl! I wish I could make you understand what she’s been to me. I was very sad when I came up here; and her bright face and cheery ways reminded me of—my own little girl that I lost years ago. I was so shocked to hear of the accident; and then when I learned that the poor child would never walk again, and that she was so unhappy because she couldn’t be glad any longer—the dear child!—I just had to come to you.’
“当然，我对你来说是个陌生人，”她立即说道。 “但我对你的小侄女波莉安娜并不陌生。我整个夏天都在酒店里，为了健康，每天我都必须长时间散步。正是在这些散步中，我遇见了你的侄女——她真是个可爱的小女孩！我希望我能让你明白她对我做了什么。当我来到这里时，我感到非常难过；她明亮的脸庞和快乐的举止让我想起了我多年前失去的小女儿。听到这起事故我非常震惊；然后当我得知这个可怜的孩子再也不会走路了，她非常不高兴，因为她再也高兴不起来了——亲爱的孩子！——我不得不来找你。

‘You are very kind,’ murmured Miss Polly.
“你真是太好了，”波莉小姐低声说道。

‘But it is you who are to be kind,’ demurred the other. ‘I—I want you to give her a message from me. Will you?’
“但你应该表现得友善，”另一个人反驳道。 “我——我想让你给她转达我的口信。你会？'

‘Certainly.’
'当然。'

‘Will you just tell her, then, that Mrs. Tarbell is glad now. Yes, I know it sounds odd, and you don’t understand. But—if you’ll pardon me I’d rather not explain.’ Sad lines came to the lady’s mouth, and the smile left her eyes. ‘Your niece will know just what I mean; and I felt that I must tell—her. Thank you; and pardon me, please, for any seeming rudeness in my call,’ she begged, as she took her leave.
“那么，你能告诉她，塔贝尔夫人现在很高兴吗？”是的，我知道这听起来很奇怪，而且你不明白。但是——请原谅我，我不想解释。”这位女士的嘴里流露出悲伤的线条，笑容也从她的眼睛里消失了。 “你的侄女会明白我的意思；我觉得我必须告诉——她。谢谢;请原谅我在电话中的任何粗鲁行为，”她在离开时恳求道。

Thoroughly mystified now, Miss Polly hurried up-stairs to Pollyanna’s room.
波莉小姐现在彻底迷惑了，她急忙上楼来到波莉安娜的房间。

‘Pollyanna, do you know a Mrs. Tarbell?
“波莉安娜，你认识塔贝尔夫人吗？”

‘Oh, yes. I love Mrs. Tarbell. She’s sick, and awfully sad; and she’s at the hotel, and takes long walks. We go together. I mean—we used to.’ Pollyanna’s voice broke, and two big tears rolled down her cheeks.
'哦是的。我爱塔贝尔夫人。她病了，而且非常悲伤；她在旅馆里，走了很长一段路。我们一起去。我的意思是——我们以前是这样的。”波莉安娜的声音沙哑了，两颗大泪珠从她的脸颊上滚落下来。

Miss Polly cleared her throat hurriedly.
波莉小姐急忙清了清喉咙。

‘We’ll, she’s just been here, dear. She left a message for you—but she wouldn’t tell me what it meant. She said to tell you that Mrs. Tarbell is glad now.’
“我们会的，她刚刚来过这里，亲爱的。她给你留言了——但她不告诉我这是什么意思。她说要告诉你塔贝尔夫人现在很高兴。

Pollyanna clapped her hands softly.
波莉安娜轻轻地拍了拍手。

‘Did she say that—really? Oh, I’m so glad!
“她真的这么说过吗？”哦，我很高兴！

‘But, Pollyanna, what did she mean?’
“但是，波莉安娜，她是什么意思？”

‘Why, it’s the game, and—‘ Pollyanna stopped short, her fingers to her lips.
“为什么，这就是游戏，而且——”波莉安娜突然停了下来，她的手指放在嘴唇上。

‘What game?’
'什么游戏？'

‘N-nothing much, Aunt Polly; that is—I can’t tell it unless I tell other things that—that I’m not to speak of.’
“没什么——没什么，波莉阿姨；那就是——我不能告诉它，除非我告诉其他一些我不该谈论的事情。

It was on Miss Polly’s tongue to question her niece further; but the obvious distress on the little girl’s face stayed the words before they were uttered.
波莉小姐想进一步询问她的侄女。但小女孩脸上明显的痛苦让这句话没能说出口。

Not long after Mrs. Tarbell’s visit, the climax came. It came in the shape of a call from a certain young woman with unnaturally pink cheeks and abnormally yellow hair; a young woman who wore high heels and cheap jewelry; a young woman whom Miss Polly knew very well by reputation—but whom she was angrily amazed to meet beneath the roof of the Harrington homestead.
塔贝尔夫人来访后不久，高潮就来了。电话的形式是某个年轻女子的电话，她有着不自然的粉红色脸颊和异常黄色的头发；穿着高跟鞋、佩戴廉价珠宝的年轻女子；波莉小姐对这位年轻女子的名声非常熟悉，但在哈林顿庄园的屋顶下见到她却感到非常惊讶和愤怒。

Miss Polly did not offer her hand. She drew back, indeed, as she entered the room.
波莉小姐没有伸出手。当她走进房间时，她确实退缩了。

The woman rose at once. Her eyes were very red, as if she had been crying. Half defiantly she asked if she might, for a moment, see the little girl, Pollyanna.
女人立刻站了起来。她的眼睛很红，像是哭过一样。她半挑衅地问她是否可以暂时见见那个小女孩波莉安娜。

Miss Polly said no. She began to say it very sternly; but something in the woman’s pleading eyes made her add the civil explanation that no one was allowed yet to see Pollyanna.
波莉小姐说不。她开始非常严厉地说。但这位女士恳求的目光中的某种东西让她添加了礼貌的解释，即尚未允许任何人见到波莉安娜。

The woman hesitated; then a little brusquely she spoke. Her chin was still at a slightly defiant tilt.
女人犹豫了。然后她说话的语气有点粗鲁。她的下巴仍然略微挑衅地翘着。

‘My name is Mrs. Payson—Mrs. Tom Payson. I presume you’ve heard of me—most of the good people in the town have—and maybe some of the things you’ve heard ain’t true. But never mind that. It’s about the little girl I came. I heard about the accident, and—and it broke me all up. Last week I heard how she couldn’t ever walk again, and—and I wished I could give up my two uselessly well legs for hers. She’d do more good trotting around on ‘em one hour than I could in a hundred years. But never mind that. Legs ain’t always given to the one who can make the best use of ‘em, I notice.’
“我的名字是佩森夫人——佩森夫人。”汤姆·佩森.我想你听说过我——镇上大多数好人都听说过——也许你听到的一些事情并不真实。但没关系。是关于我来的那个小女孩的。我听说了那次事故，而且——这让我心碎了。上周我听说她再也不能走路了，而且——我希望我能为了她的而放弃我两条毫无用处的健康腿。她在它们身上小跑一小时的效果比我一百年后的效果还要好。但没关系。我注意到，腿并不总是给予那些能够充分利用它们的人。

She paused, and cleared her throat; but when she resumed her voice was still husky.
她停了下来，清了清嗓子。但当她恢复过来时，她的声音仍然沙哑。

‘Maybe you don’t know it, but I’ve seen a good deal of that little girl of yours. We live on the Pendleton Hill road, and she used to go by often—only she didn’t always GO BY. She came in and played with the kids and talked to me—and my man, when he was home. She seemed to like it, and to like us. She didn’t know, I suspect, that her kind of folks don’t generally call on my kind. Maybe if they DID call more, Miss Harrington, there wouldn’t be so many—of my kind,’ she added, with sudden bitterness.
“也许你不知道，我见过你那个小女孩很多次。我们住在彭德尔顿山路上，她过去常常经过——只是她并不总是经过。她进来和孩子们一起玩，还和我说话——还有我的男人，当他在家时。她似乎很喜欢它，也喜欢我们。我怀疑她不知道她的族人一般不会拜访我的族人。哈灵顿小姐，如果他们确实多打来电话，也许就不会有那么多——我这样的人了。”她补充道，语气里突然充满了苦涩。

‘Be that as it may, she came; and she didn’t do herself no harm, and she did do us good—a lot o’ good. How much she won’t know—nor can’t know, I hope; ‘cause if she did, she’d know other things—that I don’t want her to know.
“不管怎样，她来了；她不但没有伤害自己，而且还为我们带来了很多好处。我希望她不知道多少——也不可能知道；因为如果她这样做了，她就会知道其他事情——而我不想让她知道。

‘But it’s just this. It’s been hard times with us this year, in more ways than one. We’ve been blue and discouraged—my man and me, and ready for—‘most anything. We was reckoning on getting a divorce about now, and letting the kids well, we didn’t know what we would do with the kids, Then came the accident, and what we heard about the little girl’s never walking again. And we got to thinking how she used to come and sit on our doorstep and train with the kids, and laugh, and—and just be glad. She was always being glad about something; and then, one day, she told us why, and about the game, you know; and tried to coax us to play it.
‘但也仅此而已。今年我们在很多方面都经历了艰难的时期。我们和我的丈夫都感到忧郁和沮丧，并准备好应对“几乎任何事情”。我们本来打算现在就离婚，让孩子们安好，但我们不知道该怎么处理孩子们，然后发生了事故，我们听说小女孩再也不会走路了。我们开始思考她过去是如何坐在我们家门口和孩子们一起训练，笑着，然后——然后感到高兴的。她总是对某事感到高兴；然后，有一天，她告诉我们原因，以及关于这款游戏的事情，你知道；并试图哄我们玩。

‘Well, we’ve heard now that she’s fretting her poor little life out of her, because she can’t play it no more—that there’s nothing to be glad about. And that’s what I came to tell her to-day—that maybe she can be a little glad for us, ‘cause we’ve decided to stick to each other, and play the game ourselves. I knew she would be glad, because she used to feel kind of bad—at things we said, sometimes. Just how the game is going to help us, I can’t say that I exactly see, yet; but maybe ‘twill. Anyhow, we’re going to try—‘cause she wanted us to. Will you tell her?’
“好吧，我们现在听说她正在耗尽她可怜的小生命，因为她不能再玩了——没有什么值得高兴的。这就是我今天来告诉她的——也许她会为我们感到高兴，因为我们决定坚持彼此，自己玩游戏。我知道她会很高兴，因为她有时会对我们所说的话感到有点难过。至于这款游戏将如何帮助我们，我还不能说我完全明白；但也许是斜纹布。不管怎样，我们会尝试——因为她希望我们这么做。你会告诉她吗？

‘Yes, I will tell her,’ promised Miss Polly, a little faintly. Then, with sudden impulse, she stepped forward and held out her hand. ‘And thank you for coming, Mrs. Payson,’ she said simply.
“是的，我会告诉她的，”波莉小姐微弱地答应道。然后，她突然一冲动，向前迈了一步，伸出了手。 “谢谢你的到来，佩森夫人，”她简单地说。

The defiant chin fell. The lips above it trembled visibly. With an incoherently mumbled something, Mrs. Payson blindly clutched at the outstretched hand, turned, and fled.
挑衅的下巴掉了下来。上面的嘴唇明显颤抖着。佩森夫人语无伦次地咕哝了一句什么，盲目地抓住那只伸出的手，转身就跑。

The door had scarcely closed behind her before Miss Polly was confronting Nancy in the kitchen.
门刚在她身后关上，波莉小姐就在厨房里与南希对峙了。

‘Nancy!’
“南希！”

Miss Polly spoke sharply. The series of puzzling, disconcerting visits of the last few days, culminating as they had in the extraordinary experience of the afternoon, had strained her nerves to the snapping point. Not since Miss Pollyanna’s accident had Nancy heard her mistress speak so sternly.
波莉小姐语气尖锐。过去几天里一系列令人费解、不安的拜访，最终在下午的非凡经历中达到了顶峰，使她的神经紧张到了崩溃的边缘。自从波莉安娜小姐出事后，南希还没有听到她的女主人如此严厉地说话。

‘Nancy, WILL you tell me what this absurd ‘game’ is that the whole town seems to be babbling about? And what, please, has my niece to do with it? WHY does everybody, from Milly Snow to Mrs. Tom Payson, send word to her that they’re ‘playing it’? As near as I can judge, half the town are putting on blue ribbons, or stopping family quarrels, or learning to like something they never liked before, and all because of Pollyanna. I tried to ask the child herself about it, but I can’t seem to make much headway, and of course I don’t like to worry her—now. But from something I heard her say to you last night, I should judge you were one of them, too. Now WILL you tell me what it all means?’
“南希，你能告诉我这个全镇人都在议论的荒谬‘游戏’是什么吗？请问这和我侄女有什么关系？为什么从米莉·斯诺到汤姆·佩森夫人，每个人都给她发消息说他们正在“玩这个”？据我判断，一半的城镇都戴上了蓝丝带，或者停止了家庭争吵，或者学会喜欢以前从未喜欢过的东西，而这一切都是因为乐观主义者。我试图亲自询问孩子这件事，但似乎没有取得多大进展，当然我现在不想让她担心。但从我昨晚听到她对你说的话来看，我应该判断你也是其中之一。现在你能告诉我这一切意味着什么吗？

To Miss Polly’s surprise and dismay, Nancy burst into tears.
令波莉小姐惊讶又沮丧的是，南希突然哭了起来。

‘It means that ever since last June that blessed child has jest been makin’ the whole town glad, an’ now they’re turnin’ ‘round an’ tryin’ ter make her a little glad, too.’
“这意味着，从去年六月起，那个幸福的孩子就一直在让全镇的人高兴，现在他们正转过来，试图让她也高兴一点。”

‘Glad of what?’
“高兴什么？”

‘Just glad! That’s the game.’
‘很高兴！这就是游戏。

Miss Polly actually stamped her foot.
波莉小姐真的跺着脚。

‘There you go like all the rest, Nancy. What game?’
“南希，你就和其他人一样吧。”什么游戏？'

Nancy lifted her chin. She faced her mistress and looked her squarely in the eye.
南希抬起下巴。她面对着她的女主人，直视着她的眼睛。

‘I’ll tell ye, ma’am. It’s a game Miss Pollyanna’s father learned her ter play. She got a pair of crutches once in a missionary barrel when she was wantin’ a doll; an’ she cried, of course, like any child would. It seems ‘twas then her father told her that there wasn’t ever anythin’ but what there was somethin’ about it that you could be glad about; an’ that she could be glad about them crutches.’
“我会告诉你，女士。这是波莉安娜小姐的父亲学会她玩的游戏。当她想要一个洋娃娃时，她在传教士桶里得到了一双拐杖；当然，她像任何孩子一样哭了。似乎就在那时，她的父亲告诉她，除了这件事之外，没有什么是值得你高兴的； “她会因为有拐杖而感到高兴。”

‘Glad for—CRUTCHES!’ Miss Polly choked back a sob—she was thinking of the helpless little legs on the bed up-stairs.
“很高兴——拐杖！”波莉小姐强忍着抽泣——她想起了楼上床上那双无助的小腿。

‘Yes’m. That’s what I said, an’ Miss Pollyanna said that’s what she said, too. But he told her she COULD be glad—‘cause she DIDN’T NEED ‘EM.’
'是的。我是这么说的，波莉安娜小姐说她也是这么说的。但他告诉她，她可以很高兴——因为她不需要“他们”。

‘Oh-h!’ cried Miss Polly.
“哦——哈！”波莉小姐叫道。

‘And after that she said he made a regular game of it—findin’ somethin’ in everythin’ ter be glad about. An’ she said ye could do it, too, and that ye didn’t seem ter mind not havin’ the doll so much, ‘cause ye was so glad ye DIDN’T need the crutches. An’ they called it the ‘jest bein’ glad’ game. That’s the game, ma’am. She’s played it ever since.’
“在那之后，她说他经常玩这个游戏——在每件事中找到一些值得高兴的东西。”她说你也能做到，而且你似乎并不介意没有娃娃，因为你很高兴不需要拐杖。他们称之为“玩笑”游戏。这就是游戏，女士。从那以后她就一直玩这个。

‘But, how—how—‘ Miss Polly came to a helpless pause.
“但是，怎么——怎么——”波莉小姐无助地停了下来。

‘An’ you’d be surprised ter find how cute it works, ma’am, too,’ maintained Nancy, with almost the eagerness of Pollyanna herself. ‘I wish I could tell ye what a lot she’s done for mother an’ the folks out home. She’s been ter see ‘em, ye know, twice, with me. She’s made me glad, too, on such a lot o’ things—little things, an’ big things; an’ it’s made ‘em so much easier. For instance, I don’t mind ‘Nancy’ for a name half as much since she told me I could be glad ‘twa’n’t ‘Hephzibah.’ An’ there’s Monday mornin’s, too, that I used ter hate so. She’s actually made me glad for Monday mornin’s.’
“女士，你也会惊讶地发现它是多么可爱，”南希继续说道，语气几乎像波莉安娜本人一样热切。 “我希望我能告诉你们她为母亲和家里的人们做了多少事情。你知道，她和我一起见过他们两次。她也让我在很多事情上感到高兴——无论是小事还是大事；这让他们变得更加容易。例如，我不介意“南希”这个名字，因为她告诉我我会很高兴“不是‘赫夫兹巴’”。而且还有周一早上，我也讨厌这样。她实际上让我为周一早上感到高兴。

‘Glad—for Monday mornings!’
“很高兴——周一早上！”

Nancy laughed.
南希笑了。

‘I know it does sound nutty, ma’am. But let me tell ye. That blessed lamb found out I hated Monday mornin’s somethin’ awful; an’ what does she up an’ tell me one day but this: ‘Well, anyhow, Nancy, I should think you could be gladder on Monday mornin’ than on any other day in the week, because ‘twould be a whole WEEK before you’d have another one!’ An’ I’m blest if I hain’t thought of it ev’ry Monday mornin’ since—an’ it HAS helped, ma’am. It made me laugh, anyhow, ev’ry time I thought of it; an’ laughin’ helps, ye know—it does, it does!’
“我知道这听起来确实很疯狂，女士。但让我告诉你们。那只受祝福的羔羊发现我讨厌周一早上的可怕事情；有一天，她做了什么，然后告诉我：“好吧，无论如何，南希，我想你在周一早上会比一周中的任何其他一天都更高兴，因为‘那会是整整一周之前的事’”如果从那以后我每个星期一早上都不再想起这件事，我就很幸运了——这很有帮助，女士。无论如何，每次我想到这件事，我都会发笑。你知道，笑是有帮助的——确实如此，确实如此！”

‘But why hasn’t—she told me—the game?’ faltered Miss Polly. ‘Why has she made such a mystery of it, when I asked her?’
“但是她告诉我，为什么还没有比赛呢？”波莉小姐结结巴巴地说。 “当我问她时，她为什么把这件事弄得如此神秘？”

Nancy hesitated.
南希犹豫了。

‘Beggin’ yer pardon, ma’am, you told her not ter speak of—her father; so she couldn’t tell ye. ‘Twas her father’s game, ye see.’
“请原谅，女士，您告诉她不要谈论——她的父亲；”所以她不能告诉你们。 “你知道，这是她父亲的游戏。”

Miss Polly bit her lip.
波莉小姐咬着嘴唇。

‘She wanted ter tell ye, first off,’ continued Nancy, a little unsteadily. ‘She wanted somebody ter play it with, ye know. That’s why I begun it, so she could have some one.’
“她想首先告诉你们，”南希继续说道，语气有点不稳定。 “你知道，她想要有人一起玩。”这就是我开始做这件事的原因，这样她就可以得到一些。

‘And—and—these others?’ Miss Polly’s voice shook now.
“还有——还有——其他人？”波莉小姐的声音现在在颤抖。

‘Oh, ev’rybody, ‘most, knows it now, I guess. Anyhow, I should think they did from the way I’m hearin’ of it ev’rywhere I go. Of course she told a lot, and they told the rest. Them things go, ye know, when they gets started. An’ she was always so smilin’ an’ pleasant ter ev’ry one, an’ so—so jest glad herself all the time, that they couldn’t help knowin’ it, anyhow. Now, since she’s hurt, ev’rybody feels so bad—specially when they heard how bad SHE feels ‘cause she can’t find anythin’ ter be glad about. An’ so they’ve been comin’ ev’ry day ter tell her how glad she’s made THEM, hopin’ that’ll help some. Ye see, she’s always wanted ev’rybody ter play the game with her.’
“哦，每个人，”我想，现在大多数人都知道了。无论如何，从我到处听到的情况来看，我应该认为他们是这么做的。当然，她说了很多，他们也说了剩下的。你知道，当事情开始时，事情就会发生。她对每个人总是那么微笑，那么愉快，而且她自己总是那么开心，无论如何，他们都情不自禁地知道这一点。现在，自从她受伤后，每个人都感觉很糟糕——特别是当他们听说她感觉有多糟糕，因为她找不到任何值得高兴的事情时。所以他们每天都会来告诉她她让他们感到多么高兴，希望这会对一些人有所帮助。你看，她一直希望每个人都和她一起玩这个游戏。

‘Well, I know somebody who’ll play it—now,’ choked Miss Polly, as she turned and sped through the kitchen doorway.
“好吧，我知道有人会玩这个——现在，”波莉小姐哽咽着说，她转身飞快地穿过厨房门口。

Behind her, Nancy stood staring amazedly.
南希站在她身后，惊讶地看着。

‘Well, I’ll believe anythin’—anythin’ now,’ she muttered to herself. ‘Ye can’t stump me with anythin’ I wouldn’t believe, now—o’ Miss Polly!’
“好吧，我会相信任何事情——现在任何事情，”她自言自语道。 “现在，你不能用任何我不相信的事情来难倒我——噢，波莉小姐！”

A little later, in Pollyanna’s room, the nurse left Miss Polly and Pollyanna alone together.
过了一会儿，在波莉安娜的房间里，护士把波莉小姐和波莉安娜单独留在了一起。

‘And you’ve had still another caller to-day, my dear,’ announced Miss Polly, in a voice she vainly tried to steady. ‘Do you remember Mrs. Payson?’
“亲爱的，今天又有一个来电者，”波莉小姐宣布，她试图让声音稳定下来，但徒劳无功。 “你还记得佩森夫人吗？”

‘Mrs. Payson? Why, I reckon I do! She lives on the way to Mr. Pendleton’s, and she’s got the prettiest little girl baby three years old, and a boy ‘most five. She’s awfully nice, and so’s her husband—only they don’t seem to know how nice each other is. Sometimes they fight—I mean, they don’t quite agree. They’re poor, too, they say, and of course they don’t ever have barrels, ‘cause he isn’t a missionary minister, you know, like—well, he isn’t.’
'太太。佩森？为什么，我想我是的！她住在去彭德尔顿先生家的路上，她有一个最漂亮的小女婴，三岁了，还有一个男孩，五岁了。她非常好，她的丈夫也是如此，只是他们似乎不知道彼此有多好。有时他们会吵架——我的意思是，他们不太同意。他们说，他们也很穷，当然他们从来没有桶，“因为他不是传教士牧师，你知道，就像——好吧，他不是。”

A faint color stole into Pollyanna’s cheeks which was duplicated suddenly in those of her aunt.
波莉安娜的脸颊上渐渐泛起淡淡的颜色，她姨妈的脸颊上也突然出现了这种颜色。

‘But she wears real pretty clothes, sometimes, in spite of their being so poor,’ resumed Pollyanna, in some haste. ‘And she’s got perfectly beautiful rings with diamonds and rubies and emeralds in them; but she says she’s got one ring too many, and that she’s going to throw it away and get a divorce instead. What is a divorce, Aunt Polly? I’m afraid it isn’t very nice, because she didn’t look happy when she talked about it. And she said if she did get it, they wouldn’t live there any more, and that Mr. Payson would go ‘way off, and maybe the children, too. But I should think they’d rather keep the ring, even if they did have so many more. Shouldn’t you? Aunt Polly, what is a divorce?’
“但有时她穿的衣服确实很漂亮，尽管衣服很穷。”波莉安娜有些匆忙地接着说道。 “她有非常漂亮的戒指，里面镶嵌着钻石、红宝石和祖母绿；但她说她的戒指太多了，她打算扔掉它并离婚。波莉阿姨，什么是离婚？恐怕不太好，因为她说起这件事的时候看上去并不高兴。她说，如果她真的得到了它，他们就不会再住在那里了，佩森先生会“走得很远，也许孩子们也会。”但我认为他们宁愿保留戒指，即使他们确实有那么多戒指。你不应该吗？波莉阿姨，什么是离婚？

‘But they aren’t going ‘way off, dear,’ evaded Aunt Polly, hurriedly. ‘They’re going to stay right there together.’
“但是他们不会走得太远，亲爱的，”波莉姨妈急忙回避道。 “他们会一起呆在那里。”

‘Oh, I’m so glad! Then they’ll be there when I go up to see—O dear!’ broke off the little girl, miserably. ‘Aunt Polly, why CAN’T I remember that my legs don’t go any more, and that I won’t ever, ever go up to see Mr. Pendleton again?’
‘噢，我真高兴！然后当我上去看看时，他们就会在那里——哦，亲爱的！”小女孩痛苦地打断道。 “波莉姨妈，为什么我不记得我的腿不能再走路了，而且我永远不会再去看彭德尔顿先生了？”

‘There, there, don’t,’ choked her aunt. ‘Perhaps you’ll drive up sometime. But listen! I haven’t told you, yet, all that Mrs. Payson said. She wanted me to tell you that they—they were going to stay together and to play the game, just as you wanted them to.’
“好了，好了，别这样，”姨妈噎住了。 “也许你什么时候会开车过来。但是听着！我还没有告诉你佩森夫人所说的一切。她想让我告诉你，他们——他们会在一起玩游戏，就像你希望的那样。”

Pollyanna smiled through tear-wet eyes.
波莉安娜泪眼汪汪地微笑着。

‘Did they? Did they, really? Oh, I am glad of that!’
'他们做了吗？他们真的吗？哦，我很高兴！

‘Yes, she said she hoped you’d be. That’s why she told you, to make you—GLAD, Pollyanna.’
“是的，她说她希望你能这么做。这就是为什么她告诉你，要让你——高兴，盲目乐观。

Pollyanna looked up quickly.
波莉安娜迅速抬起头来。

‘Why, Aunt Polly, you—you spoke just as if you knew—DO you know about the game, Aunt Polly?’
“为什么，波莉阿姨，你——你说得好像你知道——你知道这个游戏吗，波莉阿姨？”

‘Yes, dear.’ Miss Polly sternly forced her voice to be cheerfully matter-of-fact. ‘Nancy told me. I think it’s a beautiful game. I’m going to play it now—with you.’
“是的，亲爱的。”波莉小姐严厉地强迫自己的声音表现得愉快、实事求是。 “南希告诉我的。我认为这是一场精彩的比赛。我现在要和你一起玩。

‘Oh, Aunt Polly—YOU? I’m so glad! You see, I’ve really wanted you most of anybody, all the time.’
“噢，波莉阿姨——你呢？我很高兴！你看，我真的最想要你，一直以来。”

Aunt Polly caught her breath a little sharply. It was even harder this time to keep her voice steady; but she did it.
波莉姨妈的呼吸有些急促。这一次，她的声音更难保持平稳。但她做到了。

‘Yes, dear; and there are all those others, too. Why, Pollyanna, I think all the town is playing that game now with you—even to the minister! I haven’t had a chance to tell you, yet, but this morning I met Mr. Ford when I was down to the village, and he told me to say to you that just as soon as you could see him, he was coming to tell you that he hadn’t stopped being glad over those eight hundred rejoicing texts that you told him about. So you see, dear, it’s just you that have done it. The whole town is playing the game, and the whole town is wonderfully happier—and all because of one little girl who taught the people a new game, and how to play it.’
'是的亲爱的;还有其他所有的人。哎呀，波莉安娜，我想全镇的人现在都在和你玩这个游戏——甚至是对部长！我还没有机会告诉你，但是今天早上我去村子的时候遇到了福特先生，他让我告诉你，只要你能看到他，他就来了告诉你，他一直对你告诉他的那八百条欢乐短信感到高兴。所以你看，亲爱的，只有你做到了。整个镇子都在玩这个游戏，整个镇子都非常快乐——这一切都是因为一个小女孩教会了人们一种新游戏以及如何玩它。

Pollyanna clapped her hands.
波莉安娜拍了拍手。

‘Oh, I’m so glad,’ she cried. Then, suddenly, a wonderful light illumined her face. ‘Why, Aunt Polly, there IS something I can be glad about, after all. I can be glad I’ve HAD my legs, anyway—else I couldn’t have done—that!’
“哦，我太高兴了，”她哭道。然后，突然，一道奇妙的光芒照亮了她的脸。 “哎呀，波莉阿姨，毕竟有件事让我感到高兴。”不管怎样，我很高兴我有我的腿——否则我不可能做到——那！

CHAPTER XXIX. THROUGH AN OPEN WINDOW
第二十九章。透过一扇开着的窗户

One by one the short winter days came and went—but they were not short to Pollyanna. They were long, and sometimes full of pain. Very resolutely, these days, however, Pollyanna was turning a cheerful face toward whatever came. Was she not specially bound to play the game, now that Aunt Polly was playing it, too? And Aunt Polly found so many things to be glad about! It was Aunt Polly, too, who discovered the story one day about the two poor little waifs in a snow-storm who found a blown-down door to crawl under, and who wondered what poor folks did that didn’t have any door! And it was Aunt Polly who brought home the other story that she had heard about the poor old lady who had only two teeth, but who was so glad that those two teeth ‘hit’!
短暂的冬日一天天地来了又去——但对于盲目乐观来说，这些日子并不短。它们很长，有时充满痛苦。然而，这些天，无论发生什么，波莉安娜都以乐观的态度面对一切。既然波莉姨妈也玩这个游戏，她不是特意要玩这个游戏吗？波莉阿姨发现了很多值得高兴的事情！有一天，波莉姨妈也发现了这样一个故事：两个可怜的小流浪汉在一场暴风雪中发现了一扇被吹倒的门，可以从下面爬过去，她想知道那些没有门的可怜人会做什么！波莉姨妈给她带来了另一个故事，她听说过那个可怜的老太太，她只有两颗牙齿，但她很高兴那两颗牙齿“撞到”了！

Pollyanna now, like Mrs. Snow, was knitting wonderful things out of bright colored worsteds that trailed their cheery lengths across the white spread, and made Pollyanna—again like Mrs. Snow—so glad she had her hands and arms, anyway.
波莉安娜现在，就像斯诺夫人一样，正在用色彩鲜艳的精纺毛衣编织美妙的东西，它们在白色的床单上拖曳着欢快的长度，这让波莉安娜——又像斯诺夫人——很高兴她有自己的手和手臂，无论如何。

Pollyanna saw people now, occasionally, and always there were the loving messages from those she could not see; and always they brought her something new to think about—and Pollyanna needed new things to think about.
波莉安娜现在偶尔会见到人，但总是有来自她看不见的人的爱的信息；他们总是给她带来新的思考——波莉安娜需要新的思考。

Once she had seen John Pendleton, and twice she had seen Jimmy Bean. John Pendleton had told her what a fine boy Jimmy was getting to be, and how well he was doing. Jimmy had told her what a first-rate home he had, and what bang-up ‘folks’ Mr. Pendleton made; and both had said that it was all owing to her.
她见过约翰·彭德尔顿一次，又见过吉米·比恩两次。约翰·彭德尔顿告诉她，吉米将成为一个多么优秀的男孩，而且他做得多么好。吉米告诉她，他拥有一套一流的房子，彭德尔顿先生的“朋友”也很豪华。两人都说这一切都是她的功劳。

‘Which makes me all the gladder, you know, that I HAVE had my legs,’ Pollyanna confided to her aunt afterwards.
“这让我更高兴，你知道，我有我的腿，”波莉安娜事后向她的姨妈吐露。

The winter passed, and spring came. The anxious watchers over Pollyanna’s condition could see little change wrought by the prescribed treatment. There seemed every reason to believe, indeed, that Dr. Mead’s worst fears would be realized—that Pollyanna would never walk again.
冬天过去了，春天来了。波莉安娜病情的焦灼观察者认为，处方治疗几乎没有带来任何改变。事实上，似乎有充分的理由相信，米德博士最担心的事情将会成为现实——波莉安娜再也不会走路了。

Beldingsville, of course, kept itself informed concerning Pollyanna; and of Beldingsville, one man in particular fumed and fretted himself into a fever of anxiety over the daily bulletins which he managed in some way to procure from the bed of suffering. As the days passed, however, and the news came to be no better, but rather worse, something besides anxiety began to show in the man’s face: despair, and a very dogged determination, each fighting for the mastery. In the end, the dogged determination won; and it was then that Mr. John Pendleton, somewhat to his surprise, received one Saturday morning a call from Dr. Thomas Chilton.
当然，贝尔丁斯维尔随时了解波莉安娜的情况。在贝尔丁斯维尔，一名男子尤其对他以某种方式从痛苦的床上获得的每日公告感到愤怒和焦躁，陷入了焦虑的狂热之中。然而，随着时间一天天过去，消息并没有好转，反而更糟，这个人的脸上开始显现出除了焦虑之外的其他东西：绝望和顽强的决心，每个人都在为掌握权而战。最终，顽强的决心赢得了胜利。就在那时，约翰·彭德尔顿先生有点惊讶地在一个星期六早上接到了托马斯·奇尔顿医生的电话。

‘Pendleton,’ began the doctor, abruptly, ‘I’ve come to you because you, better than any one else in town, know something of my relations with Miss Polly Harrington.’
“彭德尔顿，”医生突然说道，“我来找你是因为你比镇上任何人都更了解我和波莉·哈灵顿小姐的关系。”

John Pendleton was conscious that he must have started visibly—he did know something of the affair between Polly Harrington and Thomas Chilton, but the matter had not been mentioned between them for fifteen years, or more.
约翰·彭德尔顿意识到他一定是明显地开始了——他确实知道波莉·哈林顿和托马斯·奇尔顿之间的一些风流韵事，但他们之间已经有十五年或更长时间没有提起过这件事了。

‘Yes,’ he said, trying to make his voice sound concerned enough for sympathy, and not eager enough for curiosity. In a moment he saw that he need not have worried, however: the doctor was quite too intent on his errand to notice how that errand was received.
“是的，”他说，试图让自己的声音听起来足够关心同情，而不是急于好奇。然而，他立刻发现自己不必担心：医生太专注于他的差事，根本没有注意到他的差事是如何被接受的。

‘Pendleton, I want to see that child. I want to make an examination. I MUST make an examination.’
“彭德尔顿，我想见见那个孩子。我想做一个检查。我必须进行检查。

‘Well—can’t you?’
“嗯——你不能吗？”

‘CAN’T I! Pendleton, you know very well I haven’t been inside that door for more than fifteen years. You don’t know—but I will tell you—that the mistress of that house told me that the NEXT time she ASKED me to enter it, I might take it that she was begging my pardon, and that all would be as before—which meant that she’d marry me. Perhaps you see her summoning me now—but I don’t!’
‘我不能！彭德尔顿，你很清楚我已经十五年多没有进过那扇门了。你不知道——但我会告诉你——那所房子的女主人告诉我，下次她邀请我进去时，我可能会认为她是在请求我的原谅，一切都会像以前一样——这意味着她会嫁给我。也许你现在看到她在召唤我——但我没有！”

‘But couldn’t you go—without a summons?’
“但是没有传票你就不能走吗？”

The doctor frowned.
医生皱起了眉头。

‘Well, hardly. I have some pride, you know.’
” “嗯，几乎没有。你知道，我有一些自豪感。

‘But if you’re so anxious—couldn’t you swallow your pride and forget the quarrel—‘
“但是如果你这么着急——你就不能放下你的骄傲，忘记争吵吗——”

‘Forget the quarrel!’ interrupted the doctor, savagely. ‘I’m not talking of that kind of pride. So far as THAT is concerned, I’d go from here there on my knees—or on my head—if that would do any good. It’s PROFESSIONAL pride I’m talking about. It’s a case of sickness, and I’m a doctor. I can’t butt in and say, ‘Here, take me!’can I?’
“忘掉争吵吧！”医生粗暴地打断道。 “我说的不是那种骄傲。就这一点而言，如果有什么好处的话，我会跪着——或者用头跪着——从这里到那里。我说的是职业自豪感。这是一个疾病，而我是一名医生。我不能插嘴说：“来吧，带我去吧！可以吗？”

‘Chilton, what was the quarrel?’ demanded Pendleton.
“奇尔顿，发生了什么争吵？”彭德尔顿问道。

The doctor made an impatient gesture, and got to his feet.
医生做了个不耐烦的手势，站了起来。

‘What was it? What’s any lovers’ quarrel after it’s over?’ he snarled, pacing the room angrily. ‘A silly wrangle over the size of the moon or the depth of a river, maybe—it might as well be, so far as its having any real significance compared to the years of misery that follow them! Never mind the quarrel! So far as I am concerned, I am willing to say there was no quarrel. Pendleton, I must see that child. It may mean life or death. It will mean—I honestly believe—nine chances out of ten that Pollyanna Whittier will walk again!’
'它以前如何？结束后还有什么恋人的争吵？”他愤怒地在房间里来回踱步，咆哮道。 “一场关于月亮大小或河流深度的愚蠢争论，也许——也可能是，因为与随后的痛苦岁月相比，它有任何真正的意义！”吵架就不用管了！就我而言，我愿意说没有争吵。彭德尔顿，我必须见见那个孩子。这可能意味着生或死。这意味着——我真诚地相信——波莉安娜·惠蒂尔有十分之九的机会再次行走！

The words were spoken clearly, impressively; and they were spoken just as the one who uttered them had almost reached the open window near John Pendleton’s chair. Thus it happened that very distinctly they reached the ears of a small boy kneeling beneath the window on the ground outside.
这些话说得很清楚，令人印象深刻；说话的人几乎已经走到约翰·彭德尔顿椅子旁边开着的窗户边了。就这样，它们非常清楚地传到了一个跪在窗下、外面地面上的小男孩的耳朵里。

Jimmy Bean, at his Saturday morning task of pulling up the first little green weeds of the flowerbeds, sat up with ears and eyes wide open.
周六早上，吉米·比恩在执行除掉花圃里第一批绿色小杂草的任务时，他坐了起来，耳朵睁得大大的。

‘Walk! Pollyanna!’ John Pendleton was saying. ‘What do you mean?’
'走！盲目乐观！”约翰·彭德尔顿说道。 '你是什么意思？'

I mean that from what I can hear and learn—a mile from her bedside—that her case is very much like one that a college friend of mine has just helped. For years he’s been making this sort of thing a special study. I’ve kept in touch with him, and studied, too, in a way. And from what I hear—but I want to SEE the girl!’
我的意思是，从我在距离她床边一英里处听到和了解到的情况来看，她的情况非常像我的一位大学朋友刚刚帮助过的情况。多年来，他一直在专门研究这类事情。我一直与他保持联系，并在某种程度上进行了研究。据我所知——但我想见见那个女孩！”

John Pendleton came erect in his chair.
约翰·彭德尔顿在椅子上站直了身子。

‘You must see her, man! Couldn’t you—say, through Dr. Warren?’
‘你一定要见见她，伙计！你不能——比如说，通过沃伦博士吗？

The other shook his head.
另一个人摇摇头。

‘I’m afraid not. Warren has been very decent, though. He told me himself that he suggested consultation with me at the first, but—Miss Harrington said no so decisively that he didn’t dare venture it again, even though he knew of my desire to see the child. Lately, some of his best patients have come over to me—so of course that ties my hands still more effectually. But, Pendleton, I’ve got to see that child! Think of what it may mean to her—if I do!’
'恐怕不是。不过，沃伦一直很体面。他亲口告诉我，他一开始就建议和我商量，但是——哈灵顿小姐斩钉截铁地拒绝了，以至于他不敢再冒险，尽管他知道我想见孩子。最近，他的一些最好的病人来找我——所以这当然更有效地束缚了我的手脚。但是，彭德尔顿，我必须去见那个孩子！想想这对她可能意味着什么——如果我这样做的话！”

‘Yes, and think of what it will mean—if you don’t!’ retorted Pendleton.
“是的，想想如果你不这样做的话，这意味着什么！”彭德尔顿反驳道。

‘But how can I—without a direct request from her aunt?—which I’ll never get!’
“但是如果没有她姨妈的直接请求，我怎么能得到呢？我永远也得不到！”

‘She must be made to ask you!’
“她一定是被迫来问你的！”

‘How?’
'如何？'

‘I don’t know.’
'我不知道。'

‘No, I guess you don’t—nor anybody else. She’s too proud and too angry to ask me—after what she said years ago it would mean if she did ask me. But when I think of that child, doomed to lifelong misery, and when I think that maybe in my hands lies a chance of escape, but for that confounded nonsense we call pride and professional etiquette, I—‘ He did not finish his sentence, but with his hands thrust deep into his pockets, he turned and began to tramp up and down the room again, angrily.
“不，我想你不知道——其他任何人也不知道。她太骄傲、太生气，不敢问我——根据她几年前所说的话，这意味着如果她真的问我的话。但当我想到那个注定终生受苦的孩子时，当我想到也许我手中有一个逃脱的机会，但为了那些我们称之为骄傲和职业礼仪的令人困惑的废话时，我——”他没有说完他的话，但他双手深深地插在口袋里，转过身来，又开始在房间里来回踱来踱去，愤怒不已。

‘But if she could be made to see—to understand,’ urged John Pendleton.
“但如果能让她看到——理解的话，”约翰·彭德尔顿敦促道。

‘Yes; and who’s going to do it?’ demanded the doctor, with a savage turn.
'是的; “谁来做这件事？”医生粗暴地问道。

‘I don’t know, I don’t know,’ groaned the other, miserably.
“我不知道，我不知道，”另一个痛苦地呻吟道。

Outside the window Jimmy Bean stirred suddenly. Up to now he had scarcely breathed, so intently had he listened to every word.
窗外的吉米·比恩突然动了动。到现在为止，他几乎没有呼吸，他是那么专注地听着每一个字。

‘Well, by Jinks, I know!’ he whispered, exultingly. ‘I’M a-goin’ ter do it!’ And forthwith he rose to his feet, crept stealthily around the corner of the house, and ran with all his might down Pendleton Hill.
“好吧，金克斯，我知道了！”他兴奋地低声说道。 “我要这么做！”他立刻站了起来，悄悄地绕过房子的拐角，用尽全力跑下彭德尔顿山。

CHAPTER XXX. JIMMY TAKES THE HELM
第三十章。吉米掌舵

‘It’s Jimmy Bean. He wants ter see ye, ma’am,’ announced Nancy in the doorway.
“这是吉米·比恩。 “他想见你，女士，”南希在门口宣布。

‘Me?’ rejoined Miss Polly, plainly surprised. ‘Are you sure he did not mean Miss Pollyanna? He may see her a few minutes to-day, if he likes.’
“我？”波莉小姐回答道，显然很惊讶。 “你确定他说的不是波莉安娜小姐吗？”如果他愿意的话，他今天可能会见她几分钟。

‘Yes’m. I told him. But he said it was you he wanted.’
'是的。我告诉他了。但他说他想要的是你。

‘Very well, I’ll come down.’ And Miss Polly arose from her chair a little wearily.
“很好，我这就下去。”波莉小姐有点疲倦地从椅子上站起来。

In the sitting room she found waiting for her a round-eyed, flushed-faced boy, who began to speak at once.
她发现客厅里有一个圆眼睛、红着脸的男孩在等她，他立刻开始说话。

‘Ma’am, I s’pose it’s dreadful—what I’m doin’, an’ what I’m sayin’; but I can’t help it. It’s for Pollyanna, and I’d walk over hot coals for her, or face you, or—or anythin’ like that, any time. An’ I think you would, too, if you thought there was a chance for her ter walk again. An’ so that’s why I come ter tell ye that as long as it’s only pride an’ et—et-somethin’ that’s keepin’ Pollyanna from walkin’, why I knew you WOULD ask Dr. Chilton here if you understood—‘
“女士，我想这很可怕——我在做什么，我在说什么”；但我忍不住。这是为了波莉安娜，我愿意为她走在热炭上，或者面对你，或者——或者类似的事情，任何时候。我想你也会的，如果你认为她还有机会再次行走的话。所以这就是为什么我来告诉你，只要只是骄傲和其他什么东西阻止波莉安娜行走，为什么我知道你会在这里问奇尔顿医生，如果你明白的话——’

‘Wh-at?’ interrupted Miss Polly, the look of stupefaction on her face changing to one of angry indignation.
“什么——什么？”波莉小姐打断了她的话，她脸上的表情由惊愕变成了愤怒。

Jimmy sighed despairingly.
吉米绝望地叹了口气。

‘There, I didn’t mean ter make ye mad. That’s why I begun by tellin’ ye about her walkin’ again. I thought you’d listen ter that.’
“好了，我并不是故意让你们生气的。这就是为什么我一开始就告诉你们她又走路了。我以为你会听的。

‘Jimmy, what are you talking about?’
“吉米，你在说什么？”

Jimmy sighed again.
吉米又叹了口气。

‘That’s what I’m tryin’ ter tell ye.’
“这就是我想告诉你们的。”

‘Well, then tell me. But begin at the beginning, and be sure I understand each thing as you go. Don’t plunge into the middle of it as you did before—and mix everything all up!’
‘好吧，那就告诉我吧。但从头开始，并确保我理解每件事。不要像以前那样陷入其中，把所有的东西都混合起来！”

Jimmy wet his lips determinedly.
吉米坚定地润湿了嘴唇。

‘Well, ter begin with, Dr. Chilton come ter see Mr. Pendleton, an’ they talked in the library. Do you understand that?’
“好吧，首先，奇尔顿博士来见彭德尔顿先生，”他们在图书馆里交谈。你明白吗？

‘Yes, Jimmy.’ Miss Polly’s voice was rather faint.
“是的，吉米。”波莉小姐的声音相当微弱。

‘Well, the window was open, and I was weedin’ the flower-bed under it; an’ I heard ‘em talk.’
“嗯，窗户开着，我正在给窗户下面的花坛除草。 ”我听到“他们说话。”

‘Oh, Jimmy! LISTENING?’
‘哦，吉米！听？

‘ ‘Twa’n’t about me, an’ ‘twa’n’t sneak listenin’,’ bridled Jimmy. ‘And I’m glad I listened. You will be when I tell ye. Why, it may make Pollyanna—walk!’
“‘这不是关于我的，’‘这不是偷听’，”吉米勒住了。 “我很高兴我听了。当我告诉你的时候你就会了。为什么，这可能会让盲目乐观的人——走路！

‘Jimmy, what do you mean?’ Miss Polly was leaning forward eagerly.
“吉米，你这是什么意思？”波莉小姐急切地向前倾身。

‘There, I told ye so,’ nodded Jimmy, contentedly. ‘Well, Dr. Chilton knows some doctor somewhere that can cure Pollyanna, he thinks—make her walk, ye know; but he can’t tell sure till he SEES her. And he wants ter see her somethin’ awful, but he told Mr. Pendleton that you wouldn’t let him.’
“好了，我已经告诉过你们了，”吉米满意地点点头。 “好吧，奇尔顿医生在某个地方认识一位可以治愈波莉安娜的医生，他想——让她走路，你知道；让她走路。”但在看到她之前他无法确定。他想让她看到一些可怕的事情，但他告诉彭德尔顿先生，你不会让他这么做的。

Miss Polly’s face turned very red.
波莉小姐的脸涨得通红。

‘But, Jimmy, I—I can’t—I couldn’t! That is, I didn’t know!’ Miss Polly was twisting her fingers together helplessly.
“但是，吉米，我——我不能——我不能！也就是说，我不知道！”波莉小姐无助地绞着手指。

‘Yes, an’ that’s what I come ter tell ye, so you WOULD know,’ asserted Jimmy, eagerly. ‘They said that for some reason—I didn’t rightly catch what—you wouldn’t let Dr. Chilton come, an’ you told Dr. Warren so; an’ Dr. Chilton couldn’t come himself, without you asked him, on account of pride an’ professional et—et—well, et-somethin anyway. An’ they was wishin’ somebody could make you understand, only they didn’t know who could; an’ I was outside the winder, an’ I says ter myself right away, ‘By Jinks, I’ll do it!’ An’ I come—an’ have I made ye understand?’
“是的，这就是我来告诉你们的，这样你们就会知道，”吉米急切地断言。 “他们说出于某种原因——我没听清楚是什么原因——你不让奇尔顿医生来，”你这样告诉沃伦医生；奇尔顿医生不能亲自来，除非你邀请他，因为骄傲和专业等等——嗯，无论如何。他们希望有人能让你明白，只是他们不知道谁可以；我当时就在绞车外面，我立刻对自己说，‘天哪，我会做到的！’我来了——我让你们明白了吗？

‘Yes; but, Jimmy, about that doctor,’ implored Miss Polly, feverishly. ‘Who was he? What did he do? Are they SURE he could make Pollyanna walk?’
'是的;但是，吉米，关于那位医生的事情，”波莉小姐狂热地恳求道。 '他是谁？他做了什么？他们确定他能让波莉安娜走路吗？

‘I don’t know who he was. They didn’t say. Dr. Chilton knows him, an’ he’s just cured somebody just like her, Dr. Chilton thinks. Anyhow, they didn’t seem ter be doin’ no worryin’ about HIM. ‘Twas YOU they was worryin’ about, ‘cause you wouldn’t let Dr. Chilton see her. An’ say—you will let him come. won’t you?—now you understand?’
‘我不知道他是谁。他们没有说。奇尔顿医生认识他，他刚刚治愈了像她一样的人，奇尔顿医生认为。不管怎样，他们似乎并不担心他。 “他们担心的是你，因为你不让奇尔顿医生见她。”就说——你会让他来的。不是吗？——现在你明白了吗？

Miss Polly turned her head from side to side. Her breath was coming in little uneven, rapid gasps. Jimmy, watching her with anxious eyes, thought she was going to cry. But she did not cry. After a minute she said brokenly:
波莉小姐把头从一边转向另一边。她的呼吸有些不均匀、急促。吉米用焦急的眼神看着她，以为她要哭了。但她没有哭。过了一会儿，她断断续续地说：

‘Yes—I’ll let—Dr. Chilton—see her. Now run home, Jimmy—quick! I’ve got to speak to Dr. Warren. He’s up-stairs now. I saw him drive in a few minutes ago.’
“是的——我会让——博士。”奇尔顿——见她。现在跑回家吧，吉米——快点！我得和沃伦博士谈谈。他现在在楼上。几分钟前我看到他开车进来了。”

A little later Dr. Warren was surprised to meet an agitated, flushed-faced Miss Polly in the hall. He was still more surprised to hear the lady say, a little breathlessly:
过了一会儿，沃伦博士惊讶地在大厅里遇见了一位情绪激动、脸色通红的波莉小姐。更让他吃惊的是，那位女士有些气喘吁吁地说道：

‘Dr. Warren, you asked me once to allow Dr. Chilton to be called in consultation, and—I refused. Since then I have reconsidered. I very much desire that you SHOULD call in Dr. Chilton. Will you not ask him at once—please? Thank you.’
‘博士。沃伦，你曾经请求我允许奇尔顿医生接受咨询，但我拒绝了。从那时起我重新考虑了。我非常希望你能请奇尔顿医生来。请你不要立刻问他好吗？谢谢。'

CHAPTER XXXI. A NEW UNCLE
第三十一章。一个新叔叔

The next time Dr. Warren entered the chamber where Pollyanna lay watching the dancing shimmer of color on the ceiling, a tall, broad-shouldered man followed close behind him.
当沃伦博士再次进入房间时，波莉安娜躺在那里，看着天花板上闪烁的色彩舞动，一个高大、肩膀宽阔的男人紧随其后。

‘Dr. Chilton!—oh, Dr. Chilton, how glad I am to see YOU!’ cried Pollyanna. And at the joyous rapture of the voice, more than one pair of eyes in the room brimmed hot with sudden tears. ‘But, of course, if Aunt Polly doesn’t want—‘
‘博士。奇尔顿！——噢，奇尔顿医生，见到你我多么高兴！”波莉安娜喊道。听到这欢快的声音，房间里不止一双眼睛突然充满了热泪。 “但是，当然，如果波莉姨妈不想——”

‘It is all right, my dear; don’t worry,’ soothed Miss Polly, agitatedly, hurrying forward. ‘I have told Dr. Chilton that—that I want him to look you over—with Dr. Warren, this morning.’
“没关系，亲爱的；别担心，”波莉小姐焦急地安慰道，快步向前走去。 “我已经告诉奇尔顿医生，我想让他今天早上和沃伦医生一起给你做检查。”

‘Oh, then you asked him to come,’ murmured Pollyanna, contentedly.
“哦，那是你邀请他来的，”波莉安娜心满意足地低声说道。

‘Yes, dear, I asked him. That is—‘ But it was too late. The adoring happiness that had leaped to Dr. Chilton’s eyes was unmistakable and Miss Polly had seen it. With very pink cheeks she turned and left the room hurriedly.
“是的，亲爱的，我问过他。那就是——’但是已经太晚了。奇尔顿医生眼中闪现出的崇拜的幸福是显而易见的，波莉小姐也看到了。她脸色粉红，转身匆匆离开了房间。

Over in the window the nurse and Dr. Warren were talking earnestly. Dr. Chilton held out both his hands to Pollyanna.
窗外，护士和沃伦医生正在认真地交谈。奇尔顿医生向波莉安娜伸出双手。

‘Little girl, I’m thinking that one of the very gladdest jobs you ever did has been done to-day,’ he said in a voice shaken with emotion.
“小女孩，我想今天已经完成了你做过的最高兴的工作之一，”他的声音因激动而颤抖。

At twilight a wonderfully tremulous, wonderfully different Aunt Polly crept to Pollyanna’s bedside. The nurse was at supper. They had the room to themselves.
黄昏时分，波莉阿姨蹑手蹑脚地来到波莉安娜的床边，她浑身颤抖得厉害，跟自己截然不同。护士正在吃晚饭。他们有自己的房间。

‘Pollyanna, dear, I’m going to tell you—the very first one of all. Some day I’m going to give Dr. Chilton to you for your—uncle. And it’s you that have done it all. Oh, Pollyanna, I’m so—happy! And so—glad!—darling!’
‘盲目乐观，亲爱的，我要告诉你——这是第一个。有一天我会把奇尔顿医生交给你作为你的——叔叔。而这一切都是你做的。哦，波莉安娜，我太——高兴了！所以——很高兴！——亲爱的！”

Pollyanna began to clap her hands; but even as she brought her small palms together the first time, she stopped, and held them suspended.
波莉安娜开始拍手。但当她第一次将小手掌合拢时，她停了下来，将它们悬了起来。

‘Aunt Polly, Aunt Polly, WERE you the woman’s hand and heart he wanted so long ago? You were—I know you were! And that’s what he meant by saying I’d done the gladdest job of all—to-day. I’m so glad! Why, Aunt Polly, I don’t know but I’m so glad that I don’t mind—even my legs, now!’
“波莉阿姨，波莉阿姨，你就是他很久以前想要的女人的手和心吗？你是——我知道你是！这就是他说我今天做了最高兴的工作的意思。我很高兴！为什么，波莉阿姨，我不知道，但我很高兴我不介意——现在甚至不介意我的腿！

Aunt Polly swallowed a sob.
波莉姨妈咽下了一声抽泣。

‘Perhaps, some day, dear—‘ But Aunt Polly did not finish. Aunt Polly did not dare to tell, yet, the great hope that Dr. Chilton had put into her heart. But she did say this—and surely this was quite wonderful enough—to Pollyanna’s mind:
“也许，有一天，亲爱的——”但是波莉姨妈没有说完。然而，波莉姨妈却不敢说出奇尔顿医生在她心中寄予的巨大希望。但在波莉安娜看来，她确实说了这句话——当然这已经足够精彩了：

‘Pollyanna, next week you’re going to take a journey. On a nice comfortable little bed you’re going to be carried in cars and carriages to a great doctor who has a big house many miles from here made on purpose for just such people as you are. He’s a dear friend of Dr. Chilton’s, and we’re going to see what he can do for you!’
“波莉安娜，下周你就要去旅行了。在一张漂亮舒适的小床上，你将被汽车和马车带到一位伟大的医生那里，他在距离这里数英里之外有一座大房子，专门为像你这样的人建造的。他是奇尔顿博士的好朋友，我们要看看他能为你做些什么！

CHAPTER XXXII. WHICH IS A LETTER FROM POLLYANNA
第三十二章。这是波利亚娜的一封信

‘Dear Aunt Polly and Uncle Tom:—Oh, I can—I can—I CAN walk! I did to-day all the way from my bed to the window! It was six steps. My, how good it was to be on legs again!
“亲爱的波莉阿姨和汤姆叔叔：——哦，我能——我能——我能走路！我今天从床上一直走到窗户！有六步。天哪，能再次站起来真是太好了！

‘All the doctors stood around and smiled, and all the nurses stood beside of them and cried. A lady in the next ward who walked last week first, peeked into the door, and another one who hopes she can walk next month, was invited in to the party, and she laid on my nurse’s bed and clapped her hands. Even Black Tilly who washes the floor, looked through the piazza window and called me ‘Honey, child’ when she wasn’t crying too much to call me anything.
“所有的医生都站在周围微笑，所有的护士都站在他们旁边哭泣。隔壁病房的一位女士上周第一个走了过来，她向门里看了一眼，另一位希望下个月能走路的女士被邀请参加聚会，她躺在我护士的床上，拍了拍手。甚至连洗地板的布莱克·蒂莉（Black Tilly）也会透过广场的窗户看着我，喊我“亲爱的，孩子”，当时她还没有哭得太厉害，无法叫我任何名字。

‘I don’t see why they cried. I wanted to sing and shout and yell! Oh—oh—oh! just think, I can walk—walk—WALK! Now I don’t mind being here almost ten months, and I didn’t miss the wedding, anyhow. Wasn’t that just like you, Aunt Polly, to come on here and get married right beside my bed, so I could see you. You always do think of the gladdest things!
“我不明白他们为什么哭。我想唱歌、想喊、想大喊！哦哦哦！想想看，我可以走路——走路——走路！现在我不介意在这里待上十个月了，而且我也没有错过婚礼。波莉姨妈，到这里来，在我的床边结婚，这样我就可以见到你，这不是像你一样吗？你总是会想到最快乐的事情！

‘Pretty soon, they say, I shall go home. I wish I could walk all the way there. I do. I don’t think I shall ever want to ride anywhere any more. It will be so good just to walk. Oh, I’m so glad! I’m glad for everything. Why, I’m glad now I lost my legs for a while, for you never, never know how perfectly lovely legs are till you haven’t got them—that go, I mean. I’m going to walk eight steps to-morrow.
“他们说，很快我就会回家了。”我希望我能一路走到那里。我愿意。我想我再也不想骑车去任何地方了。只要走路就太好了。哦，我很高兴！我对一切都很高兴。为什么，我很高兴现在我失去了我的腿一段时间，因为你永远不会知道腿是多么完美可爱，除非你没有得到它们——走吧，我的意思是。明天我要走八步。

‘With heaps of love to everybody,
“带着对每个人的爱，

‘POLLYANNA.’
“波莉安娜。”