
Middlemarch
米德尔马奇

By George Eliot
乔治·艾略特

To my dear Husband, George Henry Lewes,
致我亲爱的丈夫乔治·亨利·刘易斯，

in this nineteenth year of our blessed union.
在我们幸福结合的第十九个年头。

PRELUDE
序幕

Who that cares much to know the history of man, and how the mysterious mixture behaves under the varying experiments of Time, has not dwelt, at least briefly, on the life of Saint Theresa, has not smiled with some gentleness at the thought of the little girl walking forth one morning hand-in-hand with her still smaller brother, to go and seek martyrdom in the country of the Moors? Out they toddled from rugged Avila, wide-eyed and helpless-looking as two fawns, but with human hearts, already beating to a national idea; until domestic reality met them in the shape of uncles, and turned them back from their great resolve. That child-pilgrimage was a fit beginning. Theresa’s passionate, ideal nature demanded an epic life: what were many-volumed romances of chivalry and the social conquests of a brilliant girl to her? Her flame quickly burned up that light fuel; and, fed from within, soared after some illimitable satisfaction, some object which would never justify weariness, which would reconcile self-despair with the rapturous consciousness of life beyond self. She found her epos in the reform of a religious order.
那些非常关心了解人类历史，以及神秘混合物在时间的不同实验下如何表现的人，没有至少短暂地思考过圣特蕾莎的生活，也没有在想到圣特蕾莎的生活时露出温柔的微笑。一天早上，小女孩与她更小的弟弟手牵着手，前往摩尔人的国家寻求殉道？他们从崎岖不平的阿维拉摇摇晃晃地走出来，睁大眼睛，一脸无助，就像两只小鹿一样，但他们的心已经为一个民族的想法而跳动；直到家庭现实以叔叔的形式出现在他们面前，使他们放弃了伟大的决心。那次儿童朝圣是一个合适的开始。特蕾莎充满激情、理想的天性要求她拥有史诗般的生活：对于她来说，关于骑士精神和社会征服的多卷浪漫小说对她来说算什么呢？她的火焰很快就烧掉了轻质燃料；并且，在内心的滋养下，在某种无限的满足感之后飙升，某种永远不会证明疲倦的目标，它将调和自我绝望与超越自我的生命的狂喜意识。她在宗教秩序的改革中找到了自己的史诗。

That Spanish woman who lived three hundred years ago, was certainly not the last of her kind. Many Theresas have been born who found for themselves no epic life wherein there was a constant unfolding of far-resonant action; perhaps only a life of mistakes, the offspring of a certain spiritual grandeur ill-matched with the meanness of opportunity; perhaps a tragic failure which found no sacred poet and sank unwept into oblivion. With dim lights and tangled circumstance they tried to shape their thought and deed in noble agreement; but after all, to common eyes their struggles seemed mere inconsistency and formlessness; for these later-born Theresas were helped by no coherent social faith and order which could perform the function of knowledge for the ardently willing soul. Their ardor alternated between a vague ideal and the common yearning of womanhood; so that the one was disapproved as extravagance, and the other condemned as a lapse.
那个生活在三百年前的西班牙女人肯定不是最后一个同类。许多特蕾莎出生后，都发现自己没有史诗般的生活，其中不断展开引起广泛共鸣的行动。也许只是错误的一生，是某种精神伟大的产物，与机会的卑鄙不相称；也许是一场悲剧性的失败，没有找到神圣的诗人，并且不哭不语地被遗忘了。在昏暗的灯光和混乱的环境中，他们试图以崇高的一致来塑造自己的思想和行为。但毕竟，在普通人看来，他们的斗争似乎只是前后矛盾、毫无形式可言。因为这些后来出生的特蕾莎没有得到任何连贯的社会信仰和秩序的帮助，而这些信仰和秩序无法为热心自愿的灵魂发挥知识的作用。她们的热情在模糊的理想和对女性的普遍渴望之间交替。因此，前者被斥为奢侈，后者被谴责为过失。

Some have felt that these blundering lives are due to the inconvenient indefiniteness with which the Supreme Power has fashioned the natures of women: if there were one level of feminine incompetence as strict as the ability to count three and no more, the social lot of women might be treated with scientific certitude. Meanwhile the indefiniteness remains, and the limits of variation are really much wider than any one would imagine from the sameness of women’s coiffure and the favorite love-stories in prose and verse. Here and there a cygnet is reared uneasily among the ducklings in the brown pond, and never finds the living stream in fellowship with its own oary-footed kind. Here and there is born a Saint Theresa, foundress of nothing, whose loving heart-beats and sobs after an unattained goodness tremble off and are dispersed among hindrances, instead of centring in some long-recognizable deed.
有些人认为，这些错误的生活是由于最高权力塑造了女性本性的不方便的不确定性：如果女性的无能程度严格到只能数到三的能力，那么女性的社会命运可能会得到科学确定的对待。与此同时，不确定性仍然存在，而且变化的限制实际上比任何人从女性发型的千篇一律以及散文和诗歌中最受欢迎的爱情故事中想象的要广泛得多。棕色池塘里的小鸭子们中，时不时地有一只小天鹅在不安地饲养着，从来没有找到与它自己的桨足同类相处的活生生的溪流。到处都有圣特蕾莎诞生，她是虚无的创始人，她的爱的心跳和对未实现的善良的哭泣颤抖着，分散在障碍中，而不是集中在一些长期可识别的行为上。

BOOK I.
书一。


MISS BROOKE.
布鲁克小姐。


Chapter I
第一章

‘Since I can do no good because a woman,
“作为一个女人，我无能为力，

Reach constantly at something that is near it.
不断地接触附近的东西。

—The Maid’s Tragedy: BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER.
——女仆的悲剧：博蒙特和弗莱彻。

Miss Brooke had that kind of beauty which seems to be thrown into relief by poor dress. Her hand and wrist were so finely formed that she could wear sleeves not less bare of style than those in which the Blessed Virgin appeared to Italian painters; and her profile as well as her stature and bearing seemed to gain the more dignity from her plain garments, which by the side of provincial fashion gave her the impressiveness of a fine quotation from the Bible,—or from one of our elder poets,—in a paragraph of to-day’s newspaper. She was usually spoken of as being remarkably clever, but with the addition that her sister Celia had more common-sense. Nevertheless, Celia wore scarcely more trimmings; and it was only to close observers that her dress differed from her sister’s, and had a shade of coquetry in its arrangements; for Miss Brooke’s plain dressing was due to mixed conditions, in most of which her sister shared. The pride of being ladies had something to do with it: the Brooke connections, though not exactly aristocratic, were unquestionably ‘good:’ if you inquired backward for a generation or two, you would not find any yard-measuring or parcel-tying forefathers—anything lower than an admiral or a clergyman; and there was even an ancestor discernible as a Puritan gentleman who served under Cromwell, but afterwards conformed, and managed to come out of all political troubles as the proprietor of a respectable family estate. Young women of such birth, living in a quiet country-house, and attending a village church hardly larger than a parlor, naturally regarded frippery as the ambition of a huckster’s daughter. Then there was well-bred economy, which in those days made show in dress the first item to be deducted from, when any margin was required for expenses more distinctive of rank. Such reasons would have been enough to account for plain dress, quite apart from religious feeling; but in Miss Brooke’s case, religion alone would have determined it; and Celia mildly acquiesced in all her sister’s sentiments, only infusing them with that common-sense which is able to accept momentous doctrines without any eccentric agitation. Dorothea knew many passages of Pascal’s Pensees and of Jeremy Taylor by heart; and to her the destinies of mankind, seen by the light of Christianity, made the solicitudes of feminine fashion appear an occupation for Bedlam. She could not reconcile the anxieties of a spiritual life involving eternal consequences, with a keen interest in gimp and artificial protrusions of drapery. Her mind was theoretic, and yearned by its nature after some lofty conception of the world which might frankly include the parish of Tipton and her own rule of conduct there; she was enamoured of intensity and greatness, and rash in embracing whatever seemed to her to have those aspects; likely to seek martyrdom, to make retractations, and then to incur martyrdom after all in a quarter where she had not sought it. Certainly such elements in the character of a marriageable girl tended to interfere with her lot, and hinder it from being decided according to custom, by good looks, vanity, and merely canine affection. With all this, she, the elder of the sisters, was not yet twenty, and they had both been educated, since they were about twelve years old and had lost their parents, on plans at once narrow and promiscuous, first in an English family and afterwards in a Swiss family at Lausanne, their bachelor uncle and guardian trying in this way to remedy the disadvantages of their orphaned condition.
布鲁克小姐有一种美貌，似乎因衣着破烂而显得更加突出。她的手和手腕的形状非常优美，以至于她可以穿的袖子不比意大利画家看到的圣母玛利亚的袖子更裸露。她的轮廓、身材和举止似乎从她朴素的服装中获得了更多的尊严，这与外省的时尚相比，给她留下了深刻的印象，就像圣经中的一句优美的引言——或者来自我们一位年长诗人的——今天报纸上的一段话人们通常说她非常聪明，但除此之外，她的妹妹西莉亚更有常识。尽管如此，西莉亚也没有穿更多的装饰品。只有细心观察的人才会发现，她的着装与她姐姐的不同，并且在布局上带有一丝卖弄的味道。因为布鲁克小姐的朴素着装是由于多种因素造成的，其中大部分是她姐姐所共有的。作为女士的自豪感与此有关：布鲁克的关系虽然不完全是贵族，但毫无疑问是“好”的：如果你回顾一两代人，你不会发现任何测量码或捆包裹的祖先——任何低于海军上将或牧师的职位；甚至还有一位清教徒绅士的祖先，曾在克伦威尔手下服役，但后来顺从了，并成功摆脱了所有政治麻烦，成为了受人尊敬的家族庄园的所有者。出身这样的年轻女子，住在安静的乡间别墅里，参加一个比客厅大不了多少的乡村教堂，自然把浮华视为小贩女儿的野心。 然后是有教养的经济，在那些日子里，当需要任何保证金来支付更显着等级的费用时，这使得服装表演成为第一个被扣除的项目。除了宗教情感之外，这些理由足以解释朴素的着装。但就布鲁克小姐而言，只有宗教才能决定这一点。西莉亚温和地默许了她姐姐的所有观点，只是向它们注入了能够接受重大教义而没有任何古怪激动的常识。多萝西娅熟记帕斯卡《沉思录》和杰里米·泰勒的许多段落。对她来说，在基督教的光芒下看到的人类命运，使得对女性时尚的关怀似乎成为了疯人院的一种职业。她无法调和涉及永恒后果的精神生活的焦虑，与对麻布和人造窗帘的强烈兴趣。她的头脑是理论性的，本质上渴望某种崇高的世界观，其中可能坦率地包括蒂普顿教区和她自己在那里的行为准则；她迷恋强烈和伟大，并且草率地拥抱任何在她看来具有这些方面的事物。可能会寻求殉难，撤回，然后最终在她没有寻求的地方招致殉难。当然，适婚女孩的性格中的这些因素往往会干扰她的命运，并阻碍她根据习俗、漂亮的外表、虚荣心和纯粹的犬类感情来决定她的命运。 尽管如此，她，姐妹中的姐姐，还不到二十岁，她们都受过教育，因为她们大约十二岁，失去了父母，计划既狭隘又混乱，首先在一个英国家庭后来，在洛桑的一个瑞士家庭，他们的单身叔叔兼监护人试图通过这种方式来弥补他们成为孤儿的不利条件。

It was hardly a year since they had come to live at Tipton Grange with their uncle, a man nearly sixty, of acquiescent temper, miscellaneous opinions, and uncertain vote. He had travelled in his younger years, and was held in this part of the county to have contracted a too rambling habit of mind. Mr. Brooke’s conclusions were as difficult to predict as the weather: it was only safe to say that he would act with benevolent intentions, and that he would spend as little money as possible in carrying them out. For the most glutinously indefinite minds enclose some hard grains of habit; and a man has been seen lax about all his own interests except the retention of his snuff-box, concerning which he was watchful, suspicious, and greedy of clutch.
他们搬到蒂普顿农庄和叔叔一起住还不到一年，叔叔是个年近六十的男人，性情顺从，意见各异，投票权也不确定。他年轻时曾旅行过，在县里的这个地方养成了过于散漫的思维习惯。布鲁克先生的结论就像天气一样难以预测：只能肯定地说，他会出于善意行事，并且会花尽可能少的钱来实现这些目的。因为最顽固的、不确定的头脑中也包含着一些顽固的习惯。人们发现，一个人对自己的一切利益都松懈，除了保留他的鼻烟盒，他对鼻烟盒保持警惕，多疑，贪婪地抓住。

In Mr. Brooke the hereditary strain of Puritan energy was clearly in abeyance; but in his niece Dorothea it glowed alike through faults and virtues, turning sometimes into impatience of her uncle’s talk or his way of ‘letting things be’ on his estate, and making her long all the more for the time when she would be of age and have some command of money for generous schemes. She was regarded as an heiress; for not only had the sisters seven hundred a-year each from their parents, but if Dorothea married and had a son, that son would inherit Mr. Brooke’s estate, presumably worth about three thousand a-year—a rental which seemed wealth to provincial families, still discussing Mr. Peel’s late conduct on the Catholic question, innocent of future gold-fields, and of that gorgeous plutocracy which has so nobly exalted the necessities of genteel life.
在布鲁克先生身上，清教徒活力的遗传压力显然已被搁置。但在他的侄女多萝西娅身上，它通过缺点和美德同样闪耀着光芒，有时会变成对她叔叔的谈话或他对他的庄园“顺其自然”的方式的不耐烦，并使她更加渴望自己成年后的时光。并有一定的资金用于慷慨的计划。她被视为女继承人；因为不仅姐妹俩每年从父母那里得到七百美元，而且如果多萝西娅结婚生子，那个儿子将继承布鲁克先生的财产，大概每年价值三千美元——对于外省人来说，这笔租金似乎是一笔财富。家人仍在讨论皮尔先生最近在天主教问题上的行为，对未来的金矿和华丽的财阀统治一无所知，后者如此高贵地提升了上流社会的必需品。

And how should Dorothea not marry?—a girl so handsome and with such prospects? Nothing could hinder it but her love of extremes, and her insistence on regulating life according to notions which might cause a wary man to hesitate before he made her an offer, or even might lead her at last to refuse all offers. A young lady of some birth and fortune, who knelt suddenly down on a brick floor by the side of a sick laborer and prayed fervidly as if she thought herself living in the time of the Apostles—who had strange whims of fasting like a Papist, and of sitting up at night to read old theological books! Such a wife might awaken you some fine morning with a new scheme for the application of her income which would interfere with political economy and the keeping of saddle-horses: a man would naturally think twice before he risked himself in such fellowship. Women were expected to have weak opinions; but the great safeguard of society and of domestic life was, that opinions were not acted on. Sane people did what their neighbors did, so that if any lunatics were at large, one might know and avoid them.
多萝西娅怎么能不嫁呢？——一个如此英俊、有前途的女孩？除了她对极端的热爱，以及她坚持按照观念来调节生活，没有什么可以阻止它，这可能会导致一个谨慎的男人在向她求婚之前犹豫不决，甚至可能导致她最终拒绝所有的求婚。一位出身和财产颇丰的年轻女士，突然跪在一位生病的工人身旁的砖地上，热切地祈祷，仿佛她以为自己生活在使徒时代——她像天主教徒一样突发奇想地禁食，还有晚上坐着阅读古老的神学书籍！这样的妻子可能会在某个晴朗的早晨叫醒你，提出一项新的收入分配计划，这会干扰政治经济和马鞍马的饲养：一个男人在冒险进行这种交往之前，自然会三思而后行。女性的观点被认为是软弱的；但社会和家庭生活的最大保障是意见不被付诸行动。理智的人会做他们邻居做的事，这样如果有疯子在逃，人们就可以知道并避开他们。

The rural opinion about the new young ladies, even among the cottagers, was generally in favor of Celia, as being so amiable and innocent-looking, while Miss Brooke’s large eyes seemed, like her religion, too unusual and striking. Poor Dorothea! compared with her, the innocent-looking Celia was knowing and worldly-wise; so much subtler is a human mind than the outside tissues which make a sort of blazonry or clock-face for it.
农村人对新来的年轻女士的看法，甚至在村里的人中，普遍都喜欢西莉亚，因为她看起来很和蔼可亲，天真无邪，而布鲁克小姐的大眼睛，就像她的宗教信仰一样，显得太不寻常和引人注目。可怜的多萝西娅！与她相比，看似天真烂漫的西莉亚却懂事又懂事。人类的思想比为其制造某种图案或钟面的外部组织要微妙得多。

Yet those who approached Dorothea, though prejudiced against her by this alarming hearsay, found that she had a charm unaccountably reconcilable with it. Most men thought her bewitching when she was on horseback. She loved the fresh air and the various aspects of the country, and when her eyes and cheeks glowed with mingled pleasure she looked very little like a devotee. Riding was an indulgence which she allowed herself in spite of conscientious qualms; she felt that she enjoyed it in a pagan sensuous way, and always looked forward to renouncing it.
然而，那些接近多萝西娅的人，尽管因为这个令人震惊的传闻而对她产生了偏见，却发现她有一种莫名其妙的魅力。当她骑在马背上时，大多数男人都认为她很迷人。她喜欢新鲜的空气和这个国家的各个方面，当她的眼睛和脸颊闪烁着混合的快乐时，她看起来一点也不像一个奉献者。骑马是她的一种放纵，尽管她对此心存疑虑。她觉得自己以一种异教的感官方式享受着它，并且总是期待着放弃它。

She was open, ardent, and not in the least self-admiring; indeed, it was pretty to see how her imagination adorned her sister Celia with attractions altogether superior to her own, and if any gentleman appeared to come to the Grange from some other motive than that of seeing Mr. Brooke, she concluded that he must be in love with Celia: Sir James Chettam, for example, whom she constantly considered from Celia’s point of view, inwardly debating whether it would be good for Celia to accept him. That he should be regarded as a suitor to herself would have seemed to her a ridiculous irrelevance. Dorothea, with all her eagerness to know the truths of life, retained very childlike ideas about marriage. She felt sure that she would have accepted the judicious Hooker, if she had been born in time to save him from that wretched mistake he made in matrimony; or John Milton when his blindness had come on; or any of the other great men whose odd habits it would have been glorious piety to endure; but an amiable handsome baronet, who said ‘Exactly’ to her remarks even when she expressed uncertainty,—how could he affect her as a lover? The really delightful marriage must be that where your husband was a sort of father, and could teach you even Hebrew, if you wished it.
她性格开朗、热情，而且没有丝毫自恋的倾向。的确，看到她的想象力如何用完全超越她自己的吸引力来装饰她的妹妹西莉亚，真是太美了，如果有哪个绅士似乎是出于其他目的而不是为了见布鲁克先生而来到农庄，她得出的结论是，他一定是爱上西莉亚：例如詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士，她不断从西莉亚的角度考虑他，内心争论西莉亚接受他是否有好处。在她看来，他应该被视为自己的追求者，这似乎是一种可笑的无关紧要的事情。多萝西娅虽然渴望了解生活的真相，但对婚姻仍然保留着非常孩子气的想法。她确信自己会接受明智的胡克，如果她及时出生，能够把他从婚姻中所犯的悲惨错误中拯救出来的话；或者约翰·弥尔顿（John Milton）失明时；或者任何其他伟人，如果他们的奇怪习惯能够被忍受，那将是光荣的虔诚；但一位和蔼可亲、英俊潇洒的准男爵，即使她表示不确定，他也对她的言论说“完全正确”——他怎么能影响她作为一个情人呢？真正令人愉快的婚姻一定是这样的婚姻：你的丈夫就像一位父亲，如果你愿意的话，他甚至可以教你希伯来语。

These peculiarities of Dorothea’s character caused Mr. Brooke to be all the more blamed in neighboring families for not securing some middle-aged lady as guide and companion to his nieces. But he himself dreaded so much the sort of superior woman likely to be available for such a position, that he allowed himself to be dissuaded by Dorothea’s objections, and was in this case brave enough to defy the world—that is to say, Mrs. Cadwallader the Rector’s wife, and the small group of gentry with whom he visited in the northeast corner of Loamshire. So Miss Brooke presided in her uncle’s household, and did not at all dislike her new authority, with the homage that belonged to it.
多萝西娅性格的这些特点使得布鲁克先生在邻里家庭中更加受到指责，因为他没有找一位中年女士作为他侄女们的向导和伴侣。但他本人非常害怕那种可能担任这一职位的上等女性，因此他被多萝西娅的反对所劝阻，在这种情况下，他有足够的勇气反抗世界——也就是说，多萝西娅夫人。教区长卡德沃拉德的妻子，以及他与他一起拜访罗姆郡东北角的一小群贵族。因此，布鲁克小姐主持了她叔叔的家务，并且一点也不讨厌她的新权威，以及属于它的敬意。

Sir James Chettam was going to dine at the Grange to-day with another gentleman whom the girls had never seen, and about whom Dorothea felt some venerating expectation. This was the Reverend Edward Casaubon, noted in the county as a man of profound learning, understood for many years to be engaged on a great work concerning religious history; also as a man of wealth enough to give lustre to his piety, and having views of his own which were to be more clearly ascertained on the publication of his book. His very name carried an impressiveness hardly to be measured without a precise chronology of scholarship.
詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士今天要和另一位绅士一起在田庄吃饭，女孩们从未见过他，多萝西娅对他怀有某种崇敬的期待。这就是爱德华·卡索邦牧师，在县里被誉为学识渊博的人，多年来一直从事有关宗教历史的伟大工作。他也是一个富有的人，足以为他的虔诚增光添彩，并且有自己的观点，这些观点将在他的书的出版中得到更明确的确定。如果没有精确的学术年表，他的名字就给人留下了深刻的印象。

Early in the day Dorothea had returned from the infant school which she had set going in the village, and was taking her usual place in the pretty sitting-room which divided the bedrooms of the sisters, bent on finishing a plan for some buildings (a kind of work which she delighted in), when Celia, who had been watching her with a hesitating desire to propose something, said—
那天一早，多萝西娅从她在村里开办的婴儿学校回来了，在漂亮的起居室里占据了她平常的位置，这个起居室分隔了姐妹们的卧室，一心想完成一些建筑的计划（一座当西莉亚一直注视着她，犹豫着想要提出什么建议时，她说道——

‘Dorothea, dear, if you don’t mind—if you are not very busy—suppose we looked at mamma’s jewels to-day, and divided them? It is exactly six months to-day since uncle gave them to you, and you have not looked at them yet.’
“多萝西娅，亲爱的，如果你不介意的话——如果你不是很忙的话——假设我们今天看看妈妈的珠宝，然后把它们分开呢？”从叔叔送给你到现在，已经六个月了，你还没有看过。”

Celia’s face had the shadow of a pouting expression in it, the full presence of the pout being kept back by an habitual awe of Dorothea and principle; two associated facts which might show a mysterious electricity if you touched them incautiously. To her relief, Dorothea’s eyes were full of laughter as she looked up.
西莉亚的脸上带着撅嘴的表情，但由于对多萝西娅和原则的习惯性敬畏，才没有完全表现出撅嘴的表情。两个相关的事实，如果你不小心触摸它们，它们可能会显示出神秘的电流。让多萝西娅松了口气的是，她抬起头来，眼里充满了笑意。

‘What a wonderful little almanac you are, Celia! Is it six calendar or six lunar months?’
“你真是一本多么美妙的小年鉴啊，西莉亚！是六个月还是农历六个月？

‘It is the last day of September now, and it was the first of April when uncle gave them to you. You know, he said that he had forgotten them till then. I believe you have never thought of them since you locked them up in the cabinet here.’
‘现在是九月的最后一天，叔叔把它们送给你的时候是四月一号。你知道，他说直到那时他已经忘记了它们。我相信自从你把它们锁在这里的柜子里之后，你就从来没有想过它们。”

‘Well, dear, we should never wear them, you know.’ Dorothea spoke in a full cordial tone, half caressing, half explanatory. She had her pencil in her hand, and was making tiny side-plans on a margin.
“好吧，亲爱的，我们永远不应该戴它们，你知道的。”多萝西娅用一种完全亲切的语气说道，一半是爱抚，一半是解释。她手里拿着铅笔，在页边空白处画着小小的侧面图。

Celia colored, and looked very grave. ‘I think, dear, we are wanting in respect to mamma’s memory, to put them by and take no notice of them. And,’ she added, after hesitating a little, with a rising sob of mortification, ‘necklaces are quite usual now; and Madame Poincon, who was stricter in some things even than you are, used to wear ornaments. And Christians generally—surely there are women in heaven now who wore jewels.’ Celia was conscious of some mental strength when she really applied herself to argument.
西莉亚脸色红了，看上去很严肃。 “我想，亲爱的，我们想要尊重妈妈的记忆，把它们放在一边，不去注意它们。而且，”她犹豫了一下之后，带着羞愧的抽泣声补充道，“项链现在很常见了；波因康夫人在某些事情上甚至比你还要严格，过去常常佩戴装饰品。一般来说，基督徒——现在天堂里肯定有戴着珠宝的女人。”当西莉亚真正投入到辩论中时，她意识到自己有一定的精神力量。

‘You would like to wear them?’ exclaimed Dorothea, an air of astonished discovery animating her whole person with a dramatic action which she had caught from that very Madame Poincon who wore the ornaments. ‘Of course, then, let us have them out. Why did you not tell me before? But the keys, the keys!’ She pressed her hands against the sides of her head and seemed to despair of her memory.
“你想戴它们吗？”多萝西娅惊呼道，她整个人都充满了惊讶的神情，她从佩戴这些装饰品的波因康夫人那里学到了戏剧性的动作。 “当然，那么，让我们把他们赶出去吧。你为什么之前不告诉我？但钥匙，钥匙！”她双手按在头两侧，似乎对自己的记忆感到绝望。

‘They are here,’ said Celia, with whom this explanation had been long meditated and prearranged.
“他们在这里，”西莉亚说道，这个解释是她和她经过长期深思熟虑和预先安排好的。

‘Pray open the large drawer of the cabinet and get out the jewel-box.’
“请打开柜子的大抽屉，取出珠宝盒。”

The casket was soon open before them, and the various jewels spread out, making a bright parterre on the table. It was no great collection, but a few of the ornaments were really of remarkable beauty, the finest that was obvious at first being a necklace of purple amethysts set in exquisite gold work, and a pearl cross with five brilliants in it. Dorothea immediately took up the necklace and fastened it round her sister’s neck, where it fitted almost as closely as a bracelet; but the circle suited the Henrietta-Maria style of Celia’s head and neck, and she could see that it did, in the pier-glass opposite.
棺材很快在他们面前打开，各种珠宝散开，在桌子上形成了一个明亮的花坛。这并不是什么伟大的收藏，但其中一些装饰品确实非常美丽，其中最精美的一件乍一看很明显是镶嵌在精美金制品中的紫色紫水晶项链，以及镶有五颗明亮式钻石的珍珠十字架。多萝西娅立即拿起项链，将它系在姐姐的脖子上，几乎像手镯一样紧密贴合。但这个圆圈很适合西莉亚头部和颈部的亨丽埃塔-玛丽亚风格，而且她可以在对面的穿衣镜中看到它确实如此。

‘There, Celia! you can wear that with your Indian muslin. But this cross you must wear with your dark dresses.’
‘那儿，西莉亚！你可以把它和你的印度平纹细布一起穿。但这个十字架必须与你的深色衣服搭配。”

Celia was trying not to smile with pleasure. ‘O Dodo, you must keep the cross yourself.’
西莉亚努力忍住不露出高兴的笑容。 “哦，渡渡鸟，你必须自己保管十字架。”

‘No, no, dear, no,’ said Dorothea, putting up her hand with careless deprecation.
“不，不，亲爱的，不，”多萝西娅举起手，漫不经心地表示反对。

‘Yes, indeed you must; it would suit you—in your black dress, now,’ said Celia, insistingly. ‘You MIGHT wear that.’
“是的，你确实必须这样做；它很适合你——现在穿你的黑裙子，”西莉亚坚持说。 “你可能会穿那个。”

‘Not for the world, not for the world. A cross is the last thing I would wear as a trinket.’ Dorothea shuddered slightly.
‘不为世界，不为世界。十字架是我最不愿意佩戴的装饰品。”多萝西娅微微颤抖着。

‘Then you will think it wicked in me to wear it,’ said Celia, uneasily.
“那么你就会认为我戴它是邪恶的，”西莉亚不安地说。

‘No, dear, no,’ said Dorothea, stroking her sister’s cheek. ‘Souls have complexions too: what will suit one will not suit another.’
“不，亲爱的，不，”多萝西娅说，抚摸着姐姐的脸颊。 “灵魂也有肤色：适合一个人的东西不一定适合另一个人。”

‘But you might like to keep it for mamma’s sake.’
“但看在妈妈的份上，你可能想保留它。”

‘No, I have other things of mamma’s—her sandal-wood box which I am so fond of—plenty of things. In fact, they are all yours, dear. We need discuss them no longer. There—take away your property.’
“不，我还有妈妈的其他东西——她的檀香木盒子，我很喜欢——很多东西。事实上，它们都是你的，亲爱的。我们不需要再讨论它们了。就是——拿走你的财产。”

Celia felt a little hurt. There was a strong assumption of superiority in this Puritanic toleration, hardly less trying to the blond flesh of an unenthusiastic sister than a Puritanic persecution.
西莉亚感到有点受伤。这种清教徒式的宽容带有一种强烈的优越感，对一个不热心的姐妹的金发肉体的尝试几乎不亚于清教徒式的迫害。

‘But how can I wear ornaments if you, who are the elder sister, will never wear them?’
“可是你这个姐姐都不戴饰品，我怎么能戴呢？”

‘Nay, Celia, that is too much to ask, that I should wear trinkets to keep you in countenance. If I were to put on such a necklace as that, I should feel as if I had been pirouetting. The world would go round with me, and I should not know how to walk.’
“不，西莉亚，这个要求太高了，我应该戴上小饰品来让你保持面容。如果我戴上这样一条项链，我会感觉自己好像在旋转。世界会跟着我转，而我不应该知道如何走路。

Celia had unclasped the necklace and drawn it off. ‘It would be a little tight for your neck; something to lie down and hang would suit you better,’ she said, with some satisfaction. The complete unfitness of the necklace from all points of view for Dorothea, made Celia happier in taking it. She was opening some ring-boxes, which disclosed a fine emerald with diamonds, and just then the sun passing beyond a cloud sent a bright gleam over the table.
西莉亚解开了项链，把它拉了下来。 “这对你的脖子来说有点紧；躺下来挂起来的东西更适合你。”她有些满意地说。从各个角度来看这条项链都完全不适合多萝西娅，这让西莉亚更高兴地接受了它。她正在打开一些戒指盒，里面有一颗镶嵌着钻石的精美祖母绿，就在这时，阳光穿过云层，在桌子上洒下明亮的光芒。

‘How very beautiful these gems are!’ said Dorothea, under a new current of feeling, as sudden as the gleam. ‘It is strange how deeply colors seem to penetrate one, like scent I suppose that is the reason why gems are used as spiritual emblems in the Revelation of St. John. They look like fragments of heaven. I think that emerald is more beautiful than any of them.’
“这些宝石多么美丽啊！”多萝西娅说，一股新的感觉涌上心头，就像闪光一样突然。 “奇怪的是，颜色似乎能如此深入地渗透一个人，就像气味一样，我想这就是为什么宝石在《圣约翰启示录》中被用作精神象征的原因。它们看起来就像天堂的碎片。我认为祖母绿比它们中的任何一个都更美丽。”

‘And there is a bracelet to match it,’ said Celia. ‘We did not notice this at first.’
“还有一个与之相配的手镯，”西莉亚说。 “我们一开始并没有注意到这一点。”

‘They are lovely,’ said Dorothea, slipping the ring and bracelet on her finely turned finger and wrist, and holding them towards the window on a level with her eyes. All the while her thought was trying to justify her delight in the colors by merging them in her mystic religious joy.
“它们很可爱，”多萝西娅说，一边把戒指和手镯戴在她精心转动的手指和手腕上，一边把它们举到窗前，与眼睛齐平。一直以来，她的想法都试图通过将色彩与她神秘的宗教喜悦融为一体来证明她对色彩的喜爱是合理的。

‘You WOULD like those, Dorothea,’ said Celia, rather falteringly, beginning to think with wonder that her sister showed some weakness, and also that emeralds would suit her own complexion even better than purple amethysts. ‘You must keep that ring and bracelet—if nothing else. But see, these agates are very pretty and quiet.’
“你会喜欢的，多萝西娅，”西莉亚支支吾吾地说，她开始惊讶地想到她姐姐表现出一些弱点，而且祖母绿比紫色紫水晶更适合她自己的肤色。 “你必须保留那枚戒指和手镯——如果没有别的的话。”但是看，这些玛瑙非常漂亮而且安静。”

‘Yes! I will keep these—this ring and bracelet,’ said Dorothea. Then, letting her hand fall on the table, she said in another tone—‘Yet what miserable men find such things, and work at them, and sell them!’ She paused again, and Celia thought that her sister was going to renounce the ornaments, as in consistency she ought to do.
'是的！我会保留这些——这枚戒指和手镯，”多萝西娅说。然后，她的手落在桌子上，用另一种语气说道：“然而，多么悲惨的男人才找到这样的东西，然后加工它们，然后把它们卖掉！”她又停了下来，西莉亚以为她姐姐要放弃这个权利了。装饰品，正如她应该做的那样。

‘Yes, dear, I will keep these,’ said Dorothea, decidedly. ‘But take all the rest away, and the casket.’
“是的，亲爱的，我会保留这些，”多萝西娅斩钉截铁地说。 “但是把剩下的所有东西都拿走，还有棺材。”

She took up her pencil without removing the jewels, and still looking at them. She thought of often having them by her, to feed her eye at these little fountains of pure color.
她拿起铅笔，没有取下珠宝，仍然看着它们。她想经常把它们带在身边，让她的眼睛看到这些纯色的小喷泉。

‘Shall you wear them in company?’ said Celia, who was watching her with real curiosity as to what she would do.
“你要在公司里穿它们吗？”西莉亚问道，她好奇地看着她，想知道她会做什么。

Dorothea glanced quickly at her sister. Across all her imaginative adornment of those whom she loved, there darted now and then a keen discernment, which was not without a scorching quality. If Miss Brooke ever attained perfect meekness, it would not be for lack of inward fire.
多萝西娅飞快地看了她姐姐一眼。在她对所爱之人充满想象力的装饰中，时不时地闪现出一种敏锐的洞察力，这种洞察力不乏灼人的品质。如果布鲁克小姐曾经达到完美的温顺，那也不是因为缺乏内心的火焰。

‘Perhaps,’ she said, rather haughtily. ‘I cannot tell to what level I may sink.’
“也许吧，”她相当傲慢地说。 “我不知道我会沉到什么程度。”

Celia blushed, and was unhappy: she saw that she had offended her sister, and dared not say even anything pretty about the gift of the ornaments which she put back into the box and carried away. Dorothea too was unhappy, as she went on with her plan-drawing, questioning the purity of her own feeling and speech in the scene which had ended with that little explosion.
西莉亚涨红了脸，很不高兴：她知道自己得罪了姐姐，对于那件礼物，她连好话都不敢说，她又把它放回盒子里，拿走了。多萝西娅也很不高兴，她继续画计划，质疑自己在这场小爆炸结束的场景中的感情和言语的纯洁性。

Celia’s consciousness told her that she had not been at all in the wrong: it was quite natural and justifiable that she should have asked that question, and she repeated to herself that Dorothea was inconsistent: either she should have taken her full share of the jewels, or, after what she had said, she should have renounced them altogether.
西莉亚的意识告诉她，她根本没有错：她应该问这个问题，这是很自然和合理的，她对自己重复说，多萝西娅前后矛盾：要么她应该拿走她全部的珠宝。 ，或者说，听了她的话，她应该彻底放弃他们。

‘I am sure—at least, I trust,’ thought Celia, ‘that the wearing of a necklace will not interfere with my prayers. And I do not see that I should be bound by Dorothea’s opinions now we are going into society, though of course she herself ought to be bound by them. But Dorothea is not always consistent.’
“我确信——至少，我相信，”西莉亚想，“佩戴项链不会妨碍我的祈祷。现在我们即将步入社会，我不认为我应该受多萝西娅的观点约束，尽管她本人当然应该受这些观点的约束。但多萝西娅并不总是始终如一。

Thus Celia, mutely bending over her tapestry, until she heard her sister calling her.
西莉亚就是这样，默默地弯腰伏在挂毯上，直到听到姐姐叫她。

‘Here, Kitty, come and look at my plan; I shall think I am a great architect, if I have not got incompatible stairs and fireplaces.’
“嘿，基蒂，过来看看我的计划；如果我没有不相容的楼梯和壁炉，我会认为我是一位伟大的建筑师。

As Celia bent over the paper, Dorothea put her cheek against her sister’s arm caressingly. Celia understood the action. Dorothea saw that she had been in the wrong, and Celia pardoned her. Since they could remember, there had been a mixture of criticism and awe in the attitude of Celia’s mind towards her elder sister. The younger had always worn a yoke; but is there any yoked creature without its private opinions?
当西莉亚弯下腰看报纸时，多萝西娅爱抚地将脸颊贴在姐姐的手臂上。西莉亚明白这个动作。多萝西娅意识到自己错了，西莉亚原谅了她。从他们记事起，塞莉亚对姐姐的态度就夹杂着批评和敬畏。弟弟总是背着枷锁。但有哪一个被束缚的生物没有自己的私人意见呢？

CHAPTER II
第二章

‘Dime; no ves aquel caballero que hacia nosotros viene sobre un caballo rucio rodado que trae puesto en la cabeza un yelmo de oro?’ ‘Lo que veo y columbro,’ respondio Sancho, ‘no es sino un hombre sobre un as no pardo como el mio, que trae sobre la cabeza una cosa que relumbra.’ ‘Pues ese es el yelmo de Mambrino,’ dijo Don Quijote.’—CERVANTES.
'十分钱; no ves aquel caballero que hacia nosotros viene sobre un caballo rucio rodado que trae puesto en la cabeza un yelmo de oro?'“Lo que veo y columbro”，桑乔回应，“no es sino un hombre sobre un as no pardo como el mio” , que trae sobre la cabeza una cosa que relumbra.'“Pues ese es el yelmo de Mambrino,'dijo Don Quijote。”——塞万提斯。

‘Seest thou not yon cavalier who cometh toward us on a dapple-gray steed, and weareth a golden helmet?’ ‘What I see,’ answered Sancho, ‘is nothing but a man on a gray ass like my own, who carries something shiny on his head.’ ‘Just so,’ answered Don Quixote: ‘and that resplendent object is the helmet of Mambrino.’’
“你没看到那位骑着斑灰色战马、戴着金色头盔的骑士吗？” “我所看到的，”桑乔回答道，“只不过是一个骑着一匹和我一样的灰色驴子的人，他驮着什么东西。” “正是如此，”堂吉诃德回答道，“那个金碧辉煌的东西就是曼布里诺的头盔。”

‘Sir Humphry Davy?’ said Mr. Brooke, over the soup, in his easy smiling way, taking up Sir James Chettam’s remark that he was studying Davy’s Agricultural Chemistry. ‘Well, now, Sir Humphry Davy; I dined with him years ago at Cartwright’s, and Wordsworth was there too—the poet Wordsworth, you know. Now there was something singular. I was at Cambridge when Wordsworth was there, and I never met him—and I dined with him twenty years afterwards at Cartwright’s. There’s an oddity in things, now. But Davy was there: he was a poet too. Or, as I may say, Wordsworth was poet one, and Davy was poet two. That was true in every sense, you know.’
“汉弗莱·戴维爵士？”布鲁克先生边喝汤边轻松地微笑着说道，他接受了詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士关于他正在研究戴维的农业化学的说法。 “好吧，现在，汉弗莱·戴维爵士；几年前我和他一起在卡特赖特餐厅吃饭，华兹华斯也在场——诗人华兹华斯，你知道。现在有一些奇怪的事情。当华兹华斯在剑桥时，我正在剑桥，但我从未见过他——二十年后，我在卡特赖特餐厅与他共进晚餐。现在事情有些奇怪。但戴维就在那里：他也是一位诗人。或者，正如我所说，华兹华斯是第一诗人，而戴维是第二诗人。你知道，这在任何意义上都是正确的。

Dorothea felt a little more uneasy than usual. In the beginning of dinner, the party being small and the room still, these motes from the mass of a magistrate’s mind fell too noticeably. She wondered how a man like Mr. Casaubon would support such triviality. His manners, she thought, were very dignified; the set of his iron-gray hair and his deep eye-sockets made him resemble the portrait of Locke. He had the spare form and the pale complexion which became a student; as different as possible from the blooming Englishman of the red-whiskered type represented by Sir James Chettam.
多萝西娅比平时感到更加不安。晚餐开始时，聚会人数很少，房间里很安静，这些来自治安官头脑中的微粒就降得太明显了。她想知道像卡苏邦先生这样的人怎么会支持这样的琐事。她认为，他的举止非常有尊严。他铁灰色的头发和深邃的眼窝使他很像洛克的肖像。他身材瘦削，肤色苍白，就像学生一样。与以詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士为代表的红胡子类型的蓬勃发展的英国人尽可能不同。

‘I am reading the Agricultural Chemistry,’ said this excellent baronet, ‘because I am going to take one of the farms into my own hands, and see if something cannot be done in setting a good pattern of farming among my tenants. Do you approve of that, Miss Brooke?’
“我正在读《农业化学》，”这位优秀的男爵说道，“因为我要把其中一个农场掌握在自己手中，看看是否能做些什么来在我的佃户中建立良好的农业模式。你同意吗，布鲁克小姐？

‘A great mistake, Chettam,’ interposed Mr. Brooke, ‘going into electrifying your land and that kind of thing, and making a parlor of your cow-house. It won’t do. I went into science a great deal myself at one time; but I saw it would not do. It leads to everything; you can let nothing alone. No, no—see that your tenants don’t sell their straw, and that kind of thing; and give them draining-tiles, you know. But your fancy farming will not do—the most expensive sort of whistle you can buy: you may as well keep a pack of hounds.’
“切塔姆，这是一个巨大的错误，”布鲁克先生插嘴道，“让你的土地通电之类的事情，并在你的牛舍里建了一个客厅。不行。我自己也曾一度涉足科学领域。但我看到这是不行的。它导致一切；你什么都不能放过。不，不——注意你的佃户不要卖掉他们的稻草之类的东西；并给他们排水瓷砖，你知道的。但你花哨的农业是行不通的——你可以买最昂贵的哨子：你还不如养一群猎犬。

‘Surely,’ said Dorothea, ‘it is better to spend money in finding out how men can make the most of the land which supports them all, than in keeping dogs and horses only to gallop over it. It is not a sin to make yourself poor in performing experiments for the good of all.’
“当然，”多萝西娅说，“花钱去研究人们如何充分利用养活他们的土地，比养狗和马只是为了在上面驰骋要好。为了所有人的利益而进行实验时让自己变得贫穷并不是罪过。”

She spoke with more energy than is expected of so young a lady, but Sir James had appealed to her. He was accustomed to do so, and she had often thought that she could urge him to many good actions when he was her brother-in-law.
她说话时的活力超出了人们对一位如此年轻女士的预期，但詹姆斯爵士吸引了她。他已经习惯了，她也常常以为，当他是姐夫的时候，可以督促他做很多好事。

Mr. Casaubon turned his eyes very markedly on Dorothea while she was speaking, and seemed to observe her newly.
当多萝西娅说话时，卡苏邦先生的目光非常明显地转向她，似乎在重新审视她。

‘Young ladies don’t understand political economy, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, smiling towards Mr. Casaubon. ‘I remember when we were all reading Adam Smith. THERE is a book, now. I took in all the new ideas at one time—human perfectibility, now. But some say, history moves in circles; and that may be very well argued; I have argued it myself. The fact is, human reason may carry you a little too far—over the hedge, in fact. It carried me a good way at one time; but I saw it would not do. I pulled up; I pulled up in time. But not too hard. I have always been in favor of a little theory: we must have Thought; else we shall be landed back in the dark ages. But talking of books, there is Southey’s ‘Peninsular War.’ I am reading that of a morning. You know Southey?’
“你知道，年轻女士不懂政治经济学，”布鲁克先生微笑着对卡苏邦先生说道。 “我记得当我们都在读亚当·斯密的时候。现在有一本书。我一下子吸收了所有的新想法——人类的完美性，现在。但有人说，历史是循环往复的；这可能是有充分理由的；我自己也争论过。事实上，人类的理性可能会让你走得太远——事实上，是越过了篱笆。它一度给我带来了很大的帮助。但我看到这是不行的。我停下来；我及时停下来。但也不太难。我一直赞成一个小理论：我们必须有思想；我们必须有思想。否则我们就会回到黑暗时代。但说到书，有骚西的《半岛战争》。我今天早上正在读那本书。你认识索塞吗？

‘No’ said Mr. Casaubon, not keeping pace with Mr. Brooke’s impetuous reason, and thinking of the book only. ‘I have little leisure for such literature just now. I have been using up my eyesight on old characters lately; the fact is, I want a reader for my evenings; but I am fastidious in voices, and I cannot endure listening to an imperfect reader. It is a misfortune, in some senses: I feed too much on the inward sources; I live too much with the dead. My mind is something like the ghost of an ancient, wandering about the world and trying mentally to construct it as it used to be, in spite of ruin and confusing changes. But I find it necessary to use the utmost caution about my eyesight.’
“不，”卡苏邦先生说，他没有跟上布鲁克先生鲁莽的理性，只想着这本书。 “我现在没有闲暇去读这类文学作品。我最近老是把目光花在老角色身上；事实上，我晚上想要一个读者；但我对声音很挑剔，我无法忍受听一个不完美的读者的讲话。从某种意义上说，这是一种不幸：我过多地依赖于内在的源泉；我和死者一起生活得太多了。我的心就像远古的幽灵，在世界上徘徊，并试图在精神上将其构建为过去的样子，尽管有毁坏和令人困惑的变化。但我发现有必要对自己的视力极其谨慎。”

This was the first time that Mr. Casaubon had spoken at any length. He delivered himself with precision, as if he had been called upon to make a public statement; and the balanced sing-song neatness of his speech, occasionally corresponded to by a movement of his head, was the more conspicuous from its contrast with good Mr. Brooke’s scrappy slovenliness. Dorothea said to herself that Mr. Casaubon was the most interesting man she had ever seen, not excepting even Monsieur Liret, the Vaudois clergyman who had given conferences on the history of the Waldenses. To reconstruct a past world, doubtless with a view to the highest purposes of truth—what a work to be in any way present at, to assist in, though only as a lamp-holder! This elevating thought lifted her above her annoyance at being twitted with her ignorance of political economy, that never-explained science which was thrust as an extinguisher over all her lights.
这是卡苏邦先生第一次发表长篇大论。他的表达准确无误，就好像他是被要求发表公开声明一样。他说话时的平衡、歌唱般的整洁，偶尔伴随着他的头部的运动，与好心的布鲁克先生好斗的邋遢形成鲜明对比，这一点更加引人注目。多萝西娅自言自语道，卡苏邦先生是她见过的最有趣的人，甚至连曾举办过瓦尔多派历史会议的沃州牧师利雷先生也不例外。重建一个过去的世界，无疑是为了实现真理的最高目的——以任何方式呈现、提供帮助，尽管只是作为灯座，这是一项多么伟大的工作啊！这种振奋人心的想法使她摆脱了因对政治经济学的无知而被嘲笑的烦恼，而政治经济学这门从未解释过的科学被推到了她所有的灯上。

‘But you are fond of riding, Miss Brooke,’ Sir James presently took an opportunity of saying. ‘I should have thought you would enter a little into the pleasures of hunting. I wish you would let me send over a chestnut horse for you to try. It has been trained for a lady. I saw you on Saturday cantering over the hill on a nag not worthy of you. My groom shall bring Corydon for you every day, if you will only mention the time.’
“但是你喜欢骑马，布鲁克小姐，”詹姆斯爵士趁机说道。 “我本以为你会稍微享受一下狩猎的乐趣。我希望你能让我送一匹栗色马给你尝尝。它是为一位女士训练的。星期六我看见你骑着一匹不配你的马慢跑过山。我的新郎每天都会给你带来科里登，只要你提一下时间。”

‘Thank you, you are very good. I mean to give up riding. I shall not ride any more,’ said Dorothea, urged to this brusque resolution by a little annoyance that Sir James would be soliciting her attention when she wanted to give it all to Mr. Casaubon.
‘谢谢你，你很好。我的意思是放弃骑行。 “我不会再骑马了。”多萝西娅说，她有点恼火地催促她做出这个粗暴的决定，因为当她想把一切都交给卡苏邦先生时，詹姆斯爵士却在吸引她的注意力。

‘No, that is too hard,’ said Sir James, in a tone of reproach that showed strong interest. ‘Your sister is given to self-mortification, is she not?’ he continued, turning to Celia, who sat at his right hand.
“不，那太难了，”詹姆斯爵士说道，语气中带着责备的意味，表现出浓厚的兴趣。 “你的妹妹很自虐，不是吗？”他继续说道，转向坐在他右手边的西莉亚。

‘I think she is,’ said Celia, feeling afraid lest she should say something that would not please her sister, and blushing as prettily as possible above her necklace. ‘She likes giving up.’
“我想她是的，”西莉亚说，她担心自己会说一些让她姐姐不高兴的话，并在项链上方尽可能漂亮地红了脸。 “她喜欢放弃。”

‘If that were true, Celia, my giving-up would be self-indulgence, not self-mortification. But there may be good reasons for choosing not to do what is very agreeable,’ said Dorothea.
“如果这是真的，西莉亚，我的放弃将是自我放纵，而不是自我折磨。但选择不做那些非常令人愉快的事情可能有充分的理由，”多萝西娅说。

Mr. Brooke was speaking at the same time, but it was evident that Mr. Casaubon was observing Dorothea, and she was aware of it.
布鲁克先生也在说话，但显然卡苏邦先生正在观察多萝西娅，而她也意识到了这一点。

‘Exactly,’ said Sir James. ‘You give up from some high, generous motive.’
“完全正确，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “你放弃是出于某种崇高而慷慨的动机。”

‘No, indeed, not exactly. I did not say that of myself,’ answered Dorothea, reddening. Unlike Celia, she rarely blushed, and only from high delight or anger. At this moment she felt angry with the perverse Sir James. Why did he not pay attention to Celia, and leave her to listen to Mr. Casaubon?—if that learned man would only talk, instead of allowing himself to be talked to by Mr. Brooke, who was just then informing him that the Reformation either meant something or it did not, that he himself was a Protestant to the core, but that Catholicism was a fact; and as to refusing an acre of your ground for a Romanist chapel, all men needed the bridle of religion, which, properly speaking, was the dread of a Hereafter.
“不，确实，不完全是。我可没这么说我自己。”多萝西娅脸红了，回答道。与西莉亚不同，她很少脸红，只有在高度高兴或愤怒时才会脸红。这一刻，她对乖僻的詹姆斯爵士感到愤怒。他为什么不理睬西莉亚，而让她听卡苏邦先生讲话呢？——如果那个博学的人只肯说话，而不是让布鲁克先生跟他说话，布鲁克先生正在告诉他，宗教改革运动正在发生。他本人是一个彻头彻尾的新教徒，但天主教是一个事实，这要么意味着什么，要么没有。至于拒绝在你的一英亩土地上建造罗马教堂，所有人都需要宗教的束缚，确切地说，这是对后世的恐惧。

‘I made a great study of theology at one time,’ said Mr. Brooke, as if to explain the insight just manifested. ‘I know something of all schools. I knew Wilberforce in his best days. Do you know Wilberforce?’
“我曾经对神学进行了深入的研究，”布鲁克先生说道，似乎是为了解释刚刚表现出来的洞察力。 “我对所有学校都了解一些。我认识威尔伯福斯最美好的时光。你认识威尔伯福斯吗？

Mr. Casaubon said, ‘No.’
卡苏邦先生说：“不。”

‘Well, Wilberforce was perhaps not enough of a thinker; but if I went into Parliament, as I have been asked to do, I should sit on the independent bench, as Wilberforce did, and work at philanthropy.’
“好吧，威尔伯福斯也许还不够是一个思想家；但如果我进入议会，正如我被要求做的那样，我应该像威尔伯福斯那样坐在独立议员席上，并从事慈善事业。

Mr. Casaubon bowed, and observed that it was a wide field.
卡苏邦先生鞠了个躬，发现这是一片广阔的田野。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Brooke, with an easy smile, ‘but I have documents. I began a long while ago to collect documents. They want arranging, but when a question has struck me, I have written to somebody and got an answer. I have documents at my back. But now, how do you arrange your documents?’
“是的，”布鲁克先生轻松地微笑着说，“但我有文件。”我很早以前就开始收集文件。他们想要安排，但当我遇到问题时，我会写信给某人并得到答案。我的背后有文件。但现在，你如何安排你的文件呢？

‘In pigeon-holes partly,’ said Mr. Casaubon, with rather a startled air of effort.
“部分是在鸽子洞里，”卡苏邦先生说道，语气中充满了惊讶的神情。

‘Ah, pigeon-holes will not do. I have tried pigeon-holes, but everything gets mixed in pigeon-holes: I never know whether a paper is in A or Z.’
‘啊，鸽子洞不行。我尝试过分类，但一切都混合在分类中：我永远不知道一篇论文是在 A 还是 Z 中。

‘I wish you would let me sort your papers for you, uncle,’ said Dorothea. ‘I would letter them all, and then make a list of subjects under each letter.’
“叔叔，我希望你能让我帮你整理一下文件。”多萝西娅说。 “我会把它们全部写下来，然后在每个字母下列出一个主题列表。”

Mr. Casaubon gravely smiled approval, and said to Mr. Brooke, ‘You have an excellent secretary at hand, you perceive.’
卡苏邦先生严肃地微笑着表示赞同，并对布鲁克先生说：“你知道，你身边有一位出色的秘书。”

‘No, no,’ said Mr. Brooke, shaking his head; ‘I cannot let young ladies meddle with my documents. Young ladies are too flighty.’
“不，不，”布鲁克先生摇摇头说。 “我不能让年轻女士干涉我的文件。年轻女士们太轻浮了。

Dorothea felt hurt. Mr. Casaubon would think that her uncle had some special reason for delivering this opinion, whereas the remark lay in his mind as lightly as the broken wing of an insect among all the other fragments there, and a chance current had sent it alighting on HER.
多萝西娅感到受伤。卡苏邦先生会认为她叔叔发表这个意见有某种特殊的理由，而这句话在他的脑海中就像昆虫折断的翅膀一样轻而易举地落在了那里的所有其他碎片中，并且偶然的电流使它落在了她的身上。 。

When the two girls were in the drawing-room alone, Celia said—
当两个女孩单独在客厅里时，西莉亚说道——

‘How very ugly Mr. Casaubon is!’
“卡苏邦先生多丑啊！”

‘Celia! He is one of the most distinguished-looking men I ever saw. He is remarkably like the portrait of Locke. He has the same deep eye-sockets.’
‘西莉亚！他是我见过的最有气质的人之一。他非常像洛克的肖像。他有同样深的眼窝。

‘Had Locke those two white moles with hairs on them?’
“洛克有那两颗长着毛的白痣吗？”

‘Oh, I dare say! when people of a certain sort looked at him,’ said Dorothea, walking away a little.
‘哦，我敢说！ “当某种人看着他时，”多萝西娅一边说，一边走开一点。

‘Mr. Casaubon is so sallow.’
'先生。卡苏邦太黄了。

‘All the better. I suppose you admire a man with the complexion of a cochon de lait.’
‘那就更好了。我想你会欣赏一个拥有牛奶般肤色的男人。

‘Dodo!’ exclaimed Celia, looking after her in surprise. ‘I never heard you make such a comparison before.’
“渡渡鸟！”西莉亚惊呼道，惊讶地看着她。 “我以前从未听你做过这样的比较。”

‘Why should I make it before the occasion came? It is a good comparison: the match is perfect.’
‘为什么我要在时机到来之前赶到呢？这是一个很好的比较：这场比赛是完美的。”

Miss Brooke was clearly forgetting herself, and Celia thought so.
布鲁克小姐显然忘记了自己，西莉亚也是这么认为的。

‘I wonder you show temper, Dorothea.’
“我不知道你会发脾气，多萝西娅。”

‘It is so painful in you, Celia, that you will look at human beings as if they were merely animals with a toilet, and never see the great soul in a man’s face.’
“西莉亚，你太痛苦了，你把人类看作只是有厕所的动物，却从未在男人的脸上看到伟大的灵魂。”

‘Has Mr. Casaubon a great soul?’ Celia was not without a touch of naive malice.
“卡苏朋先生有一个伟大的灵魂吗？”西莉亚不无一丝天真的恶意。

‘Yes, I believe he has,’ said Dorothea, with the full voice of decision. ‘Everything I see in him corresponds to his pamphlet on Biblical Cosmology.’
“是的，我相信他做到了，”多萝西娅说道，语气充满决断。 “我在他身上看到的一切都符合他的圣经宇宙论小册子。”

‘He talks very little,’ said Celia
“他话很少，”西莉亚说

‘There is no one for him to talk to.’
“没有人可以跟他说话。”

Celia thought privately, ‘Dorothea quite despises Sir James Chettam; I believe she would not accept him.’ Celia felt that this was a pity. She had never been deceived as to the object of the baronet’s interest. Sometimes, indeed, she had reflected that Dodo would perhaps not make a husband happy who had not her way of looking at things; and stifled in the depths of her heart was the feeling that her sister was too religious for family comfort. Notions and scruples were like spilt needles, making one afraid of treading, or sitting down, or even eating.
西莉亚私下里想，‘多萝西娅相当鄙视詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士；’我相信她不会接受他。”塞莉亚觉得这很可惜。对于男爵感兴趣的对象，她从来没有被欺骗过。确实，有时她会想，多多也许不会让一个与她看待事物的方式不同的丈夫感到高兴。她内心深处压抑着一种感觉，因为她的姐姐过于虔诚，无法给家庭带来安慰。观念、顾忌就像漏针一样，让人不敢走路，不敢坐下，甚至不敢吃饭。

When Miss Brooke was at the tea-table, Sir James came to sit down by her, not having felt her mode of answering him at all offensive. Why should he? He thought it probable that Miss Brooke liked him, and manners must be very marked indeed before they cease to be interpreted by preconceptions either confident or distrustful. She was thoroughly charming to him, but of course he theorized a little about his attachment. He was made of excellent human dough, and had the rare merit of knowing that his talents, even if let loose, would not set the smallest stream in the county on fire: hence he liked the prospect of a wife to whom he could say, ‘What shall we do?’ about this or that; who could help her husband out with reasons, and would also have the property qualification for doing so. As to the excessive religiousness alleged against Miss Brooke, he had a very indefinite notion of what it consisted in, and thought that it would die out with marriage. In short, he felt himself to be in love in the right place, and was ready to endure a great deal of predominance, which, after all, a man could always put down when he liked. Sir James had no idea that he should ever like to put down the predominance of this handsome girl, in whose cleverness he delighted. Why not? A man’s mind—what there is of it—has always the advantage of being masculine,—as the smallest birch-tree is of a higher kind than the most soaring palm,—and even his ignorance is of a sounder quality. Sir James might not have originated this estimate; but a kind Providence furnishes the limpest personality with a little gunk or starch in the form of tradition.
当布鲁克小姐坐在茶桌旁时，詹姆斯爵士走到她身边坐下，并没有觉得她回答他的方式有任何冒犯。他为什么要这么做？他认为布鲁克小姐很可能喜欢他，而且在不再被自信或不信任的先入之见所解释之前，他们的举止必须非常明显。她对他来说非常迷人，但他当然对自己的依恋进行了一些理论分析。他是用优质的人类面团做成的，而且有一个罕见的优点，那就是他知道，即使他的才能得到发挥，也不会点燃县里最小的溪流：因此，他喜欢有一个妻子，他可以对她说： “我们该怎么办？”关于这个或那个；能够有理有据地帮助自己的丈夫，并且也有财产资格。至于对布鲁克小姐指控的过度宗教信仰，他对它的内涵有一个非常不确定的概念，并认为它会随着婚姻而消失。简而言之，他觉得自己在正确的地方坠入爱河，并准备好忍受巨大的支配地位，毕竟，一个男人随时可以在他愿意的时候放下它。詹姆斯爵士不知道他会喜欢放下这个英俊女孩的主导地位，他很喜欢她的聪明才智。为什么不？一个人的思想——无论它有什么——总是具有阳刚的优势，就像最小的桦树比最高高的棕榈树更高，甚至他的无知也具有更健全的品质。詹姆斯爵士可能不是这个估计的始作俑者。但仁慈的上帝以传统的形式为最软弱的个性提供了一点粘稠或淀粉。

‘Let me hope that you will rescind that resolution about the horse, Miss Brooke,’ said the persevering admirer. ‘I assure you, riding is the most healthy of exercises.’
“布鲁克小姐，我希望你能撤销关于这匹马的决定。”这位坚持不懈的崇拜者说道。 “我向你保证，骑行是最健康的运动。”

‘I am aware of it,’ said Dorothea, coldly. ‘I think it would do Celia good—if she would take to it.’
“我知道，”多萝西娅冷冷地说。 “我认为这对西莉亚有好处——如果她愿意的话。”

‘But you are such a perfect horsewoman.’
“但你真是一位完美的女骑士。”

‘Excuse me; I have had very little practice, and I should be easily thrown.’
'打扰一下;我练习得很少，应该很容易被扔掉。

‘Then that is a reason for more practice. Every lady ought to be a perfect horsewoman, that she may accompany her husband.’
‘那么这就是进行更多练习的原因。每个女士都应该成为一名完美的女骑士，这样她才能陪伴她的丈夫。

‘You see how widely we differ, Sir James. I have made up my mind that I ought not to be a perfect horsewoman, and so I should never correspond to your pattern of a lady.’ Dorothea looked straight before her, and spoke with cold brusquerie, very much with the air of a handsome boy, in amusing contrast with the solicitous amiability of her admirer.
“你看我们的分歧有多大，詹姆斯爵士。我已经下定决心，我不应该成为一个完美的女骑士，所以我永远不应该符合你的淑女模式。男孩，与她的崇拜者的热切和蔼可亲形成有趣的对比。

‘I should like to know your reasons for this cruel resolution. It is not possible that you should think horsemanship wrong.’
“我想知道你做出这个残酷决定的原因。你不可能认为马术是错误的。

‘It is quite possible that I should think it wrong for me.’
“我很可能认为这对我来说是错误的。”

‘Oh, why?’ said Sir James, in a tender tone of remonstrance.
“噢，为什么？”詹姆斯爵士用温和的抗议语气问道。

Mr. Casaubon had come up to the table, teacup in hand, and was listening.
卡苏邦先生走到桌边，手里拿着茶杯，正在听。

‘We must not inquire too curiously into motives,’ he interposed, in his measured way. ‘Miss Brooke knows that they are apt to become feeble in the utterance: the aroma is mixed with the grosser air. We must keep the germinating grain away from the light.’
“我们不能过于好奇地探究动机，”他谨慎地插话道。 “布鲁克小姐知道，他们的言语很容易变得无力：香气与肮脏的空气混合在一起。我们必须让发芽的谷物远离光线。”

Dorothea colored with pleasure, and looked up gratefully to the speaker. Here was a man who could understand the higher inward life, and with whom there could be some spiritual communion; nay, who could illuminate principle with the widest knowledge a man whose learning almost amounted to a proof of whatever he believed!
多萝西娅满脸喜悦，感激地抬头看着说话的人。这是一个能够理解更高层次的内在生活的人，并且可以与他进行某种精神上的交流。不，谁能用最广泛的知识阐明原理，一个他的学识几乎等于证明他所相信的东西的人！

Dorothea’s inferences may seem large; but really life could never have gone on at any period but for this liberal allowance of conclusions, which has facilitated marriage under the difficulties of civilization. Has any one ever pinched into its pilulous smallness the cobweb of pre-matrimonial acquaintanceship?
多萝西娅的推论看似很大，但实际上却是这样的。但实际上，如果没有这种对结论的自由宽容，生活在任何时期都不会继续下去，这促进了文明困难下的婚姻。有没有人曾将婚前相识的蜘蛛网捏进它那绒毛般的小东西里呢？

‘Certainly,’ said good Sir James. ‘Miss Brooke shall not be urged to tell reasons she would rather be silent upon. I am sure her reasons would do her honor.’
“当然，”好心的詹姆斯爵士说。 “不应催促布鲁克小姐说出她宁愿保持沉默的原因。我相信她的理由会让她感到荣幸。

He was not in the least jealous of the interest with which Dorothea had looked up at Mr. Casaubon: it never occurred to him that a girl to whom he was meditating an offer of marriage could care for a dried bookworm towards fifty, except, indeed, in a religious sort of way, as for a clergyman of some distinction.
他一点也不嫉妒多萝西娅抬头看着卡苏朋先生的兴趣：他从来没有想到，他正在考虑求婚的一个女孩会照顾一个五十岁的枯书虫，除了，确实，以一种宗教的方式，至于某个杰出的牧师。

However, since Miss Brooke had become engaged in a conversation with Mr. Casaubon about the Vaudois clergy, Sir James betook himself to Celia, and talked to her about her sister; spoke of a house in town, and asked whether Miss Brooke disliked London. Away from her sister, Celia talked quite easily, and Sir James said to himself that the second Miss Brooke was certainly very agreeable as well as pretty, though not, as some people pretended, more clever and sensible than the elder sister. He felt that he had chosen the one who was in all respects the superior; and a man naturally likes to look forward to having the best. He would be the very Mawworm of bachelors who pretended not to expect it.
然而，由于布鲁克小姐已经开始与卡苏邦先生谈论沃州神职人员，詹姆斯爵士就去找西莉亚，和她谈论她的妹妹。谈到城里的一栋房子，并问布鲁克小姐是否不喜欢伦敦。离开了姐姐，西莉亚说话很轻松，詹姆斯爵士自言自语道，第二个布鲁克小姐确实很和蔼可亲，也很漂亮，虽然并不像有些人假装的那样，比姐姐更聪明、更懂事。他觉得自己选择了在各方面都更胜一筹的人。男人自然喜欢期待拥有最好的。他就是那些假装没有想到这一点的单身汉中的大胃虫。

CHAPTER III
第三章

‘Say, goddess, what ensued, when Raphael,
‘说吧，女神，当拉斐尔，发生了什么，

The affable archangel …
和蔼可亲的大天使……

Eve
前夕

The story heard attentive, and was filled
故事听得仔细，内容充实

With admiration, and deep muse, to hear
带着钦佩和沉思，聆听

Of things so high and strange.’
那些如此崇高而奇怪的事情。

—Paradise Lost, B. vii.
——《失乐园》，B.vii。

If it had really occurred to Mr. Casaubon to think of Miss Brooke as a suitable wife for him, the reasons that might induce her to accept him were already planted in her mind, and by the evening of the next day the reasons had budded and bloomed. For they had had a long conversation in the morning, while Celia, who did not like the company of Mr. Casaubon’s moles and sallowness, had escaped to the vicarage to play with the curate’s ill-shod but merry children.
如果卡苏邦先生真的认为布鲁克小姐是他的合适妻子，那么可能促使她接受他的理由就已经在她的脑海中根深蒂固了，到了第二天晚上，这些理由就已经萌芽了，开花了。因为早上他们聊了很长时间，而西莉亚不喜欢卡苏邦先生的痣和面色苍白的陪伴，她逃到牧师住宅去和神甫那些穿着破烂但快乐的孩子们一起玩。

Dorothea by this time had looked deep into the ungauged reservoir of Mr. Casaubon’s mind, seeing reflected there in vague labyrinthine extension every quality she herself brought; had opened much of her own experience to him, and had understood from him the scope of his great work, also of attractively labyrinthine extent. For he had been as instructive as Milton’s ‘affable archangel;’ and with something of the archangelic manner he told her how he had undertaken to show (what indeed had been attempted before, but not with that thoroughness, justice of comparison, and effectiveness of arrangement at which Mr. Casaubon aimed) that all the mythical systems or erratic mythical fragments in the world were corruptions of a tradition originally revealed. Having once mastered the true position and taken a firm footing there, the vast field of mythical constructions became intelligible, nay, luminous with the reflected light of correspondences. But to gather in this great harvest of truth was no light or speedy work. His notes already made a formidable range of volumes, but the crowning task would be to condense these voluminous still-accumulating results and bring them, like the earlier vintage of Hippocratic books, to fit a little shelf. In explaining this to Dorothea, Mr. Casaubon expressed himself nearly as he would have done to a fellow-student, for he had not two styles of talking at command: it is true that when he used a Greek or Latin phrase he always gave the English with scrupulous care, but he would probably have done this in any case. A learned provincial clergyman is accustomed to think of his acquaintances as of ‘lords, knyghtes, and other noble and worthi men, that conne Latyn but lytille.’
此时，多萝西娅已经深入观察了卡苏邦先生思想中的未计量的水库，看到了她自己所带来的每一种品质都反映在模糊的迷宫般的延伸中。她向他讲述了自己的大部分经历，并从他那里了解了他伟大工作的范围，以及令人着迷的迷宫般的范围。因为他就像弥尔顿所说的“和蔼可亲的大天使”一样具有启发性；他以大天使的方式告诉她他是如何着手展示的（以前确实尝试过，但没有那么彻底，比较的公正性和有效性）卡苏邦先生所瞄准的安排）认为世界上所有的神话系统或不稳定的神话片段都是最初揭示的传统的腐败。一旦掌握了真正的位置并在那里站稳了脚跟，广阔的神话结构领域就变得可理解，不，在对应的反射光下变得明亮。但要收集这一伟大的真理收获并不是一件轻松或快速的工作。他的笔记已经出版了大量的书籍，但最重要的任务是浓缩这些仍在积累的大量成果，并将它们像希波克拉底书籍的早期版本一样，装进一个小书架。在向多萝西娅解释这一点时，卡苏邦先生的表达方式几乎就像他对同学所做的那样，因为他没有两种听命于说话的风格：确实，当他使用希腊语或拉丁语短语时，他总是给出英语非常谨慎，但无论如何他可能都会这么做。一位博学的省级牧师习惯于将他的熟人视为“领主、骑士和其他高贵而有价值的人，他们与拉廷有关，但与利蒂尔有关。”

Dorothea was altogether captivated by the wide embrace of this conception. Here was something beyond the shallows of ladies’ school literature: here was a living Bossuet, whose work would reconcile complete knowledge with devoted piety; here was a modern Augustine who united the glories of doctor and saint.
多萝西娅完全被这一观念的广泛接受所吸引。这里有超出女子学校文学浅薄之处的东西：这是一个活生生的博须埃，他的作品将完整的知识与虔诚的虔诚融为一体；这是一位现代的奥古斯丁，他将医生和圣人的荣耀结合在一起。

The sanctity seemed no less clearly marked than the learning, for when Dorothea was impelled to open her mind on certain themes which she could speak of to no one whom she had before seen at Tipton, especially on the secondary importance of ecclesiastical forms and articles of belief compared with that spiritual religion, that submergence of self in communion with Divine perfection which seemed to her to be expressed in the best Christian books of widely distant ages, she found in Mr. Casaubon a listener who understood her at once, who could assure her of his own agreement with that view when duly tempered with wise conformity, and could mention historical examples before unknown to her.
这种神圣性似乎与学习一样明显，因为当多萝西娅被迫就某些主题敞开心扉时，她无法向她以前在蒂普顿见过的任何人谈论这些主题，特别是关于教会形式和条款的次要重要性。与那种精神宗教的信仰相比，那种自我淹没与神圣完美的交流在她看来似乎在遥远的时代最好的基督教书籍中得到了表达，她在卡苏邦先生身上发现了一个立即理解她的听众，他可以保证当她适当地以明智的顺从方式进行调和时，他自己同意这种观点，并且可以提到她以前不知道的历史例子。

‘He thinks with me,’ said Dorothea to herself, ‘or rather, he thinks a whole world of which my thought is but a poor twopenny mirror. And his feelings too, his whole experience—what a lake compared with my little pool!’
“他和我一起思考，”多萝西娅自言自语道，“或者更确切地说，他思考了整个世界，而我的思想只不过是一面可怜的两便士镜子。还有他的感受，他的整个经历——与我的小池塘相比，真是一个湖啊！

Miss Brooke argued from words and dispositions not less unhesitatingly than other young ladies of her age. Signs are small measurable things, but interpretations are illimitable, and in girls of sweet, ardent nature, every sign is apt to conjure up wonder, hope, belief, vast as a sky, and colored by a diffused thimbleful of matter in the shape of knowledge. They are not always too grossly deceived; for Sinbad himself may have fallen by good-luck on a true description, and wrong reasoning sometimes lands poor mortals in right conclusions: starting a long way off the true point, and proceeding by loops and zigzags, we now and then arrive just where we ought to be. Because Miss Brooke was hasty in her trust, it is not therefore clear that Mr. Casaubon was unworthy of it.
布鲁克小姐从言语和性格上争辩起来，毫不犹豫，不亚于她同龄的其他年轻女士。符号是可测量的小东西，但解释却是无限的，对于天性甜美、热情的女孩来说，每一个符号都容易让人联想到奇迹、希望、信念，像天空一样广阔，并被扩散的一滴物质以颜色的形式着色。知识。他们并不总是受到太严重的欺骗；因为辛巴达本人可能是幸运地得到了真实的描述，而错误的推理有时会让可怜的凡人得出正确的结论：从远离真实点的地方开始，经过循环和曲折，我们时不时地到达我们想要的地方。必定是。由于布鲁克小姐仓促地接受了她的信任，因此并不清楚卡苏邦先生是否值得信任。

He stayed a little longer than he had intended, on a slight pressure of invitation from Mr. Brooke, who offered no bait except his own documents on machine-breaking and rick-burning. Mr. Casaubon was called into the library to look at these in a heap, while his host picked up first one and then the other to read aloud from in a skipping and uncertain way, passing from one unfinished passage to another with a ‘Yes, now, but here!’ and finally pushing them all aside to open the journal of his youthful Continental travels.
在布鲁克先生的轻微邀请下，他比预想的停留了更长的时间，布鲁克先生除了他自己关于破坏机器和焚烧垃圾的文件外没有提供任何诱饵。卡苏邦先生被叫到图书馆看一堆这些，而他的主人拿起第一个，然后是另一个，以一种跳跃和不确定的方式大声朗读，从一个未完成的段落转到另一个，“是的，”现在，但是在这里！”最后把他们都推到一边，打开他年轻时的大陆旅行日记。

‘Look here—here is all about Greece. Rhamnus, the ruins of Rhamnus—you are a great Grecian, now. I don’t know whether you have given much study to the topography. I spent no end of time in making out these things—Helicon, now. Here, now!—‘We started the next morning for Parnassus, the double-peaked Parnassus.’ All this volume is about Greece, you know,’ Mr. Brooke wound up, rubbing his thumb transversely along the edges of the leaves as he held the book forward.
“看这里——这里是关于希腊的一切。瑞姆纳斯，瑞姆纳斯的废墟——你现在是一位伟大的希腊人了。不知道你对地形学有没有研究过。我花了无数的时间来弄清楚这些东西——Helicon，现在。就在这里，现在！——“我们第二天早上就出发去帕纳塞斯山，双峰的帕纳塞斯山。”这本书全都是关于希腊的，你知道，”布鲁克先生一边说，一边用拇指横向地摩擦着树叶的边缘。把书举到前面。

Mr. Casaubon made a dignified though somewhat sad audience; bowed in the right place, and avoided looking at anything documentary as far as possible, without showing disregard or impatience; mindful that this desultoriness was associated with the institutions of the country, and that the man who took him on this severe mental scamper was not only an amiable host, but a landholder and custos rotulorum. Was his endurance aided also by the reflection that Mr. Brooke was the uncle of Dorothea?
卡苏邦先生的听众庄严而略显悲伤。鞠躬到位，尽量避免看任何纪录片，不表现出无视或不耐烦；要记住，这种杂乱无章的行为与国家的制度有关，而带他经历这种严重的精神混乱的人不仅是一位和蔼可亲的主人，而且还是一位土地所有者和保管人。布鲁克先生是多萝西娅的叔叔，这是否也增强了他的耐力？

Certainly he seemed more and more bent on making her talk to him, on drawing her out, as Celia remarked to herself; and in looking at her his face was often lit up by a smile like pale wintry sunshine. Before he left the next morning, while taking a pleasant walk with Miss Brooke along the gravelled terrace, he had mentioned to her that he felt the disadvantage of loneliness, the need of that cheerful companionship with which the presence of youth can lighten or vary the serious toils of maturity. And he delivered this statement with as much careful precision as if he had been a diplomatic envoy whose words would be attended with results. Indeed, Mr. Casaubon was not used to expect that he should have to repeat or revise his communications of a practical or personal kind. The inclinations which he had deliberately stated on the 2d of October he would think it enough to refer to by the mention of that date; judging by the standard of his own memory, which was a volume where a vide supra could serve instead of repetitions, and not the ordinary long-used blotting-book which only tells of forgotten writing. But in this case Mr. Casaubon’s confidence was not likely to be falsified, for Dorothea heard and retained what he said with the eager interest of a fresh young nature to which every variety in experience is an epoch.
当然，正如西莉亚对自己所说的那样，他似乎越来越想让她跟他说话，想把她拉出来。看着她，他的脸上时常洋溢着如冬日苍白阳光般的微笑。第二天早上离开之前，当他与布鲁克小姐沿着碎石露台愉快地散步时，他向她提到，他感到孤独的缺点，需要那种愉快的陪伴，年轻人的存在可以减轻或改变他的生活。成熟的严重辛苦。他发表这一声明时非常谨慎、准确，就好像他是一名外交使节，他的言论会带来结果。事实上，卡苏邦先生并不习惯于期望他必须重复或修改他的实际或个人类型的通信。他在 10 月 2 日故意表达的倾向，他认为通过提及该日期就足以提及；以他自己的记忆标准来判断，这是一本可以用上面的视频代替重复的书，而不是普通的长期使用的吸墨书，只讲述被遗​​忘的写作。但在这种情况下，卡苏邦先生的信心不可能被伪造，因为多萝西娅带着新鲜的年轻天性的热切兴趣听到并记住了他所说的话，对每一种经历都是一个时代。

It was three o’clock in the beautiful breezy autumn day when Mr. Casaubon drove off to his Rectory at Lowick, only five miles from Tipton; and Dorothea, who had on her bonnet and shawl, hurried along the shrubbery and across the park that she might wander through the bordering wood with no other visible companionship than that of Monk, the Great St. Bernard dog, who always took care of the young ladies in their walks. There had risen before her the girl’s vision of a possible future for herself to which she looked forward with trembling hope, and she wanted to wander on in that visionary future without interruption. She walked briskly in the brisk air, the color rose in her cheeks, and her straw bonnet (which our contemporaries might look at with conjectural curiosity as at an obsolete form of basket) fell a little backward. She would perhaps be hardly characterized enough if it were omitted that she wore her brown hair flatly braided and coiled behind so as to expose the outline of her head in a daring manner at a time when public feeling required the meagreness of nature to be dissimulated by tall barricades of frizzed curls and bows, never surpassed by any great race except the Feejeean. This was a trait of Miss Brooke’s asceticism. But there was nothing of an ascetic’s expression in her bright full eyes, as she looked before her, not consciously seeing, but absorbing into the intensity of her mood, the solemn glory of the afternoon with its long swathes of light between the far-off rows of limes, whose shadows touched each other.
秋日的三点钟，微风徐徐，卡苏邦先生开车前往他位于洛伊克的教区长官邸，距离蒂普顿仅五英里。多萝西娅戴着帽子，披着披肩，沿着灌木丛匆匆穿过公园，这样她就可以在附近的树林里漫步，除了蒙克，一只伟大的圣伯纳犬，它总是照顾着孩子，没有其他明显的陪伴。年轻的女士们在散步。眼前出现了女孩对自己可能的未来的憧憬，她怀着颤抖的希望期待着，她想不间断地在那个美好的未来中漫步。她在清爽的空气中轻快地走着，脸颊涨红，她的草帽（我们的同代人可能会怀着猜想的好奇心看着它，就像看着一个过时的篮子一样）向后倾斜了一点。如果忽略了她把棕色的头发平编成辫子，盘在脑后，以大胆的方式暴露出头部的轮廓，在公众感觉需要用自然的贫瘠来掩饰的时候，她的特征也许就不够充分了。卷曲的卷发和弓箭组成的高大屏障，除了菲吉人之外，从未被任何伟大的种族超越。这是布鲁克小姐禁欲主义的一个特点。但当她看着前方时，她那双明亮而饱满的眼睛里没有一丝苦行僧的表情，她没有自觉地看到，而是吸收了她强烈的情绪，下午的庄严光辉及其在远处的长长的光线。一排排椴树，它们的影子互相碰触。

All people, young or old (that is, all people in those ante-reform times), would have thought her an interesting object if they had referred the glow in her eyes and cheeks to the newly awakened ordinary images of young love: the illusions of Chloe about Strephon have been sufficiently consecrated in poetry, as the pathetic loveliness of all spontaneous trust ought to be. Miss Pippin adoring young Pumpkin, and dreaming along endless vistas of unwearying companionship, was a little drama which never tired our fathers and mothers, and had been put into all costumes. Let but Pumpkin have a figure which would sustain the disadvantages of the shortwaisted swallow-tail, and everybody felt it not only natural but necessary to the perfection of womanhood, that a sweet girl should be at once convinced of his virtue, his exceptional ability, and above all, his perfect sincerity. But perhaps no persons then living—certainly none in the neighborhood of Tipton—would have had a sympathetic understanding for the dreams of a girl whose notions about marriage took their color entirely from an exalted enthusiasm about the ends of life, an enthusiasm which was lit chiefly by its own fire, and included neither the niceties of the trousseau, the pattern of plate, nor even the honors and sweet joys of the blooming matron.
所有的人，无论年轻还是年老（也就是说，所有改革前时代的人），如果将她眼睛和脸颊上的光芒与新觉醒的年轻爱情的普通形象联系起来，就会认为她是一个有趣的对象：幻想克洛伊关于斯特雷芬的描述已经在诗歌中得到了充分的奉献，正如所有自发的信任所应有的可悲的可爱一样。皮平小姐崇拜年轻的南瓜，梦想着无尽的不知疲倦的陪伴的远景，这是一场让我们的父母永远不会厌倦的小戏剧，并已被放入所有服装中。让南瓜有一个身材，可以忍受短腰燕尾的缺点，每个人都觉得这不仅是自然的，而且是女性完美的必要条件，一个可爱的女孩应该立即相信他的美德，他的非凡能力，最重要的是，他的真诚。但也许当时生活的人——当然是蒂普顿附近的人——不会对一个女孩的梦想有同情心的理解，她对婚姻的看法完全来自于对生命终点的崇高热情，这种热情被点燃了。主要是靠它自己的火，既不包括嫁妆的精美，也不包括盘子的图案，甚至也不包括盛开的女主人的荣誉和甜蜜的喜悦。

It had now entered Dorothea’s mind that Mr. Casaubon might wish to make her his wife, and the idea that he would do so touched her with a sort of reverential gratitude. How good of him—nay, it would be almost as if a winged messenger had suddenly stood beside her path and held out his hand towards her! For a long while she had been oppressed by the indefiniteness which hung in her mind, like a thick summer haze, over all her desire to made her life greatly effective. What could she do, what ought she to do?—she, hardly more than a budding woman, but yet with an active conscience and a great mental need, not to be satisfied by a girlish instruction comparable to the nibblings and judgments of a discursive mouse. With some endowment of stupidity and conceit, she might have thought that a Christian young lady of fortune should find her ideal of life in village charities, patronage of the humbler clergy, the perusal of ‘Female Scripture Characters,’ unfolding the private experience of Sara under the Old Dispensation, and Dorcas under the New, and the care of her soul over her embroidery in her own boudoir—with a background of prospective marriage to a man who, if less strict than herself, as being involved in affairs religiously inexplicable, might be prayed for and seasonably exhorted. From such contentment poor Dorothea was shut out. The intensity of her religious disposition, the coercion it exercised over her life, was but one aspect of a nature altogether ardent, theoretic, and intellectually consequent: and with such a nature struggling in the bands of a narrow teaching, hemmed in by a social life which seemed nothing but a labyrinth of petty courses, a walled-in maze of small paths that led no whither, the outcome was sure to strike others as at once exaggeration and inconsistency. The thing which seemed to her best, she wanted to justify by the completest knowledge; and not to live in a pretended admission of rules which were never acted on. Into this soul-hunger as yet all her youthful passion was poured; the union which attracted her was one that would deliver her from her girlish subjection to her own ignorance, and give her the freedom of voluntary submission to a guide who would take her along the grandest path.
现在，多萝西娅想到卡苏邦先生可能希望娶她为妻子，而他会这样做的想法让她心中升起一种崇敬的感激之情。他真是太好了——不，这几乎就像一个长着翅膀的使者突然站在她的道路旁边，向她伸出了手！很长一段时间以来，她一直被一种不确定性所压抑，这种不确定性笼罩在她的脑海里，就像夏日浓浓的阴霾一样，压垮了她想要让自己的生活变得更加高效的所有愿望。她能做什么，她应该做什么？——她只不过是一个初出茅庐的女人，但她却有着积极的良心和巨大的精神需求，不满足于像一个散漫的人的啃咬和判断那样的少女教育。老鼠。带着一些愚蠢和自负的天赋，她可能会认为，一个富有的基督教年轻女士应该在乡村慈善机构中找到她的理想生活，资助卑微的神职人员，阅读“女性圣经人物”，展现萨拉的私人经历旧制度下的多卡斯，新制度下的多卡，以及她在自己的闺房里对刺绣的灵魂的照顾——她的未来婚姻背景是一个男人，虽然不像她那么严格，因为卷入了宗教上无法解释的事务，可能会受到祈祷和及时的劝告。可怜的多萝西娅被排除在这种满足之外。 她的宗教倾向的强烈程度，以及它对她的生活施加的强制力，只是她的一种本性的一个方面，这种本性完全是热情的、理论性的和理性的结果：这种本性在狭隘的教义的束缚中挣扎，被社会的束缚。生活似乎只不过是一个由小事组成的迷宫，一个被围墙围起来的迷宫，小路通向无处可去的地方，结果肯定会让其他人感到夸张和前后矛盾。她想用最完整的知识来证明她认为最好的事情。不要生活在假装承认那些从未付诸实施的规则之中。她所有的青春热情都倾注在这种灵魂的饥渴之中；吸引她的结合将把她从少女般的屈从于自己的无知中解救出来，并给予她自愿服从一位引导者的自由，引导者将带她走上最伟大的道路。

‘I should learn everything then,’ she said to herself, still walking quickly along the bridle road through the wood. ‘It would be my duty to study that I might help him the better in his great works. There would be nothing trivial about our lives. Every-day things with us would mean the greatest things. It would be like marrying Pascal. I should learn to see the truth by the same light as great men have seen it by. And then I should know what to do, when I got older: I should see how it was possible to lead a grand life here—now—in England. I don’t feel sure about doing good in any way now: everything seems like going on a mission to a people whose language I don’t know;—unless it were building good cottages—there can be no doubt about that. Oh, I hope I should be able to get the people well housed in Lowick! I will draw plenty of plans while I have time.’
“那么我应该学会一切，”她自言自语地说，仍然沿着穿过树林的马道快步走着。 “我有责任学习，以便帮助他更好地完成他的伟大工作。我们的生活不会有任何琐碎的事情。和我们在一起的每一天都意味着最伟大的事情。这就像嫁给帕斯卡一样。我应该学会用伟人看待真理的同样的眼光来看待真理。然后，当我长大后，我应该知道该怎么做：我应该看看如何才能在这里——现在——在英国过上美好的生活。我现在不确定是否能以任何方式做好事：一切似乎都在为一个我不懂语言的人们执行使命；——除非是建造好的小屋——这是毫无疑问的。哦，我希望我能够为洛威克的人们提供良好的住房！趁有时间我会画很多计划。

Dorothea checked herself suddenly with self-rebuke for the presumptuous way in which she was reckoning on uncertain events, but she was spared any inward effort to change the direction of her thoughts by the appearance of a cantering horseman round a turning of the road. The well-groomed chestnut horse and two beautiful setters could leave no doubt that the rider was Sir James Chettam. He discerned Dorothea, jumped off his horse at once, and, having delivered it to his groom, advanced towards her with something white on his arm, at which the two setters were barking in an excited manner.
多萝西娅突然自我谴责，责备自己对不确定事件的自以为是，但她没有用任何内心的努力来改变自己的思想方向，因为在路的拐角处出现了一个慢跑的骑手。这匹精心打扮的栗色马和两只漂亮的塞特马毫无疑问骑手就是詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士。他认出了多萝西娅，立刻跳下马，把马交给马夫，手臂上沾着白色的东西，向她走来，两只猎犬兴奋地狂吠。

‘How delightful to meet you, Miss Brooke,’ he said, raising his hat and showing his sleekly waving blond hair. ‘It has hastened the pleasure I was looking forward to.’
“很高兴见到你，布鲁克小姐，”他说，举起帽子，露出他光滑的波浪形金发。 “它加速了我所期待的快乐。”

Miss Brooke was annoyed at the interruption. This amiable baronet, really a suitable husband for Celia, exaggerated the necessity of making himself agreeable to the elder sister. Even a prospective brother-in-law may be an oppression if he will always be presupposing too good an understanding with you, and agreeing with you even when you contradict him. The thought that he had made the mistake of paying his addresses to herself could not take shape: all her mental activity was used up in persuasions of another kind. But he was positively obtrusive at this moment, and his dimpled hands were quite disagreeable. Her roused temper made her color deeply, as she returned his greeting with some haughtiness.
布鲁克小姐对这种打扰很恼火。这位和蔼可亲的准男爵确实是西莉亚的合适丈夫，他夸大了让姐姐满意的必要性。即使是未来的姐夫，如果他总是以与你有过分的理解为前提，即使你反对他，他也同意你的观点，这可能会成为一种压迫。认为他错误地向她写了地址的想法无法形成：她所有的精神活动都用在了另一种说服上。但此时的他实在是太突兀了，那双带着酒窝的手也让人很不舒服。她的脾气让她脸色深沉，回应他的问候也有些傲慢。

Sir James interpreted the heightened color in the way most gratifying to himself, and thought he never saw Miss Brooke looking so handsome.
詹姆斯爵士以最令自己满意的方式诠释了这种增强的色彩，并认为他从未见过布鲁克小姐看起来如此英俊。

‘I have brought a little petitioner,’ he said, ‘or rather, I have brought him to see if he will be approved before his petition is offered.’ He showed the white object under his arm, which was a tiny Maltese puppy, one of nature’s most naive toys.
“我带来了一个小请愿者，”他说，“或者更确切地说，我带他来看看他的请愿书提交之前是否会获得批准。”他展示了腋下的白色物体，那是一只小小的马耳他小狗，大自然最天真的玩具之一。

‘It is painful to me to see these creatures that are bred merely as pets,’ said Dorothea, whose opinion was forming itself that very moment (as opinions will) under the heat of irritation.
“看到这些仅仅作为宠物饲养的生物，我感到很痛苦，”多萝西娅说，她的观点正是在那一刻（正如观点那样）在愤怒的热潮下形成的。

‘Oh, why?’ said Sir James, as they walked forward.
“哦，为什么？”当他们向前走时，詹姆斯爵士说道。

‘I believe all the petting that is given them does not make them happy. They are too helpless: their lives are too frail. A weasel or a mouse that gets its own living is more interesting. I like to think that the animals about us have souls something like our own, and either carry on their own little affairs or can be companions to us, like Monk here. Those creatures are parasitic.’
“我相信所有给予它们的抚摸并不会让它们快乐。他们太无助了：他们的生命太脆弱了。黄鼠狼或自食其力的老鼠更有趣。我喜欢认为我们周围的动物也有类似于我们自己的灵魂，它们要么进行自己的小事，要么可以成为我们的伴侣，就像这里的蒙克一样。这些生物是寄生的。

‘I am so glad I know that you do not like them,’ said good Sir James. ‘I should never keep them for myself, but ladies usually are fond of these Maltese dogs. Here, John, take this dog, will you?’
“我很高兴知道你不喜欢它们，”好心的詹姆斯爵士说道。 “我永远不应该为自己保留它们，但女士们通常喜欢这些马尔济斯犬。在这里，约翰，带上这只狗，好吗？

The objectionable puppy, whose nose and eyes were equally black and expressive, was thus got rid of, since Miss Brooke decided that it had better not have been born. But she felt it necessary to explain.
这只令人讨厌的小狗，它的鼻子和眼睛同样黑色，表情丰富，就这样被处理掉了，因为布鲁克小姐认为它最好不要出生。但她觉得有必要解释一下。

‘You must not judge of Celia’s feeling from mine. I think she likes these small pets. She had a tiny terrier once, which she was very fond of. It made me unhappy, because I was afraid of treading on it. I am rather short-sighted.’
‘你不可以根据我的感受来判断西莉亚的感受。我想她喜欢这些小宠物。她曾经养过一只小梗犬，她非常喜欢它。这让我不高兴，因为我害怕踩到它。我是个目光短浅的人。

‘You have your own opinion about everything, Miss Brooke, and it is always a good opinion.’
“布鲁克小姐，你对每件事都有自己的看法，而且这总是好的看法。”

What answer was possible to such stupid complimenting?
对于这种愚蠢的赞美，还能有什么答案呢？

‘Do you know, I envy you that,’ Sir James said, as they continued walking at the rather brisk pace set by Dorothea.
“你知道吗，我很羡慕你，”詹姆斯爵士说道，他们继续按照多萝西娅设定的相当轻快的步伐行走。

‘I don’t quite understand what you mean.’
“我不太明白你的意思。”

‘Your power of forming an opinion. I can form an opinion of persons. I know when I like people. But about other matters, do you know, I have often a difficulty in deciding. One hears very sensible things said on opposite sides.’
‘你形成意见的能力。我可以形成对人的看法。我知道我什么时候喜欢别人。但对于其他事情，你知道吗，我常常难以决定。人们听到了相反双方所说的非常明智的事情。

‘Or that seem sensible. Perhaps we don’t always discriminate between sense and nonsense.’
'或者这看起来很明智。也许我们并不总是区分有意义和无意义。

Dorothea felt that she was rather rude.
多萝西娅觉得自己很粗鲁。

‘Exactly,’ said Sir James. ‘But you seem to have the power of discrimination.’
“完全正确，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “但你似乎有辨别能力。”

‘On the contrary, I am often unable to decide. But that is from ignorance. The right conclusion is there all the same, though I am unable to see it.’
“相反，我常常无法做出决定。但这是出于无知。正确的结论仍然存在，尽管我看不到它。

‘I think there are few who would see it more readily. Do you know, Lovegood was telling me yesterday that you had the best notion in the world of a plan for cottages—quite wonderful for a young lady, he thought. You had a real GENUS, to use his expression. He said you wanted Mr. Brooke to build a new set of cottages, but he seemed to think it hardly probable that your uncle would consent. Do you know, that is one of the things I wish to do—I mean, on my own estate. I should be so glad to carry out that plan of yours, if you would let me see it. Of course, it is sinking money; that is why people object to it. Laborers can never pay rent to make it answer. But, after all, it is worth doing.’
“我认为很少有人会更容易地看到这一点。你知道吗，洛夫古德昨天告诉我，你对小屋的计划有世界上最好的想法——对于一位年轻女士来说，这真是太棒了，他想。用他的话来说，你是一个真正的天才。他说你想让布鲁克先生建造一套新的小屋，但他似乎认为你叔叔不太可能同意。你知道吗，这是我想做的事情之一——我是说，在我自己的庄园里。如果你能让我看看的话，我会很高兴执行你的计划。当然是沉钱；这就是人们反对它的原因。劳动者永远无法支付租金来使其得到答复。但毕竟，这是值得做的。

‘Worth doing! yes, indeed,’ said Dorothea, energetically, forgetting her previous small vexations. ‘I think we deserve to be beaten out of our beautiful houses with a scourge of small cords—all of us who let tenants live in such sties as we see round us. Life in cottages might be happier than ours, if they were real houses fit for human beings from whom we expect duties and affections.’
'值得做！是的，确实如此。”多萝西娅充满活力地说，忘记了之前的小烦恼。 “我认为我们应该被小绳子的鞭子从我们美丽的房子里打出来——我们所有人都让房客住在我们周围看到的这样的猪圈里。如果小屋是真正适合我们期待责任和感情的人居住的房子，那么住在小屋里的生活可能会比我们的生活更幸福。

‘Will you show me your plan?’
“你能告诉我你的计划吗？”

‘Yes, certainly. I dare say it is very faulty. But I have been examining all the plans for cottages in Loudon’s book, and picked out what seem the best things. Oh what a happiness it would be to set the pattern about here! I think instead of Lazarus at the gate, we should put the pigsty cottages outside the park-gate.’
'是的，当然了。我敢说这是非常错误的。但我一直在研究劳登书中所有小屋的计划，并挑选出看起来最好的东西。哦，如果能在这里树立榜样，那该是多么幸福啊！我认为我们应该把猪圈小屋放在公园大门外，而不是把拉撒路放在门口。

Dorothea was in the best temper now. Sir James, as brother in-law, building model cottages on his estate, and then, perhaps, others being built at Lowick, and more and more elsewhere in imitation—it would be as if the spirit of Oberlin had passed over the parishes to make the life of poverty beautiful!
多萝西娅现在心情最好。詹姆斯爵士作为姐夫，在他的庄园里建造了模型小屋，然后也许在洛威克建造了其他小屋，并且在其他地方越来越多地进行模仿——就好像奥柏林的精神已经超越了教区，传到了其他地方。让贫困生活变得美好！

Sir James saw all the plans, and took one away to consult upon with Lovegood. He also took away a complacent sense that he was making great progress in Miss Brooke’s good opinion. The Maltese puppy was not offered to Celia; an omission which Dorothea afterwards thought of with surprise; but she blamed herself for it. She had been engrossing Sir James. After all, it was a relief that there was no puppy to tread upon.
詹姆斯爵士看到了所有的计划，并拿走了一份去与洛夫古德商量。他也消除了布鲁克小姐对他的好评，认为他取得了巨大进步的自满感。这只马耳他小狗并没有被提供给西莉亚；多萝西娅事后想起这一遗漏，感到很惊讶。但她为此自责。她一直让詹姆斯爵士着迷。毕竟，没有小狗可踩，这让我松了口气。

Celia was present while the plans were being examined, and observed Sir James’s illusion. ‘He thinks that Dodo cares about him, and she only cares about her plans. Yet I am not certain that she would refuse him if she thought he would let her manage everything and carry out all her notions. And how very uncomfortable Sir James would be! I cannot bear notions.’
审查计划时，西莉亚在场，并观察到了詹姆斯爵士的幻觉。 “他认为多多关心他，而她只关心她的计划。但如果她认为他会让她管理一切并实现她所有的想法，我不确定她是否会拒绝他。詹姆斯爵士会感到多么不舒服啊！我无法忍受观念。

It was Celia’s private luxury to indulge in this dislike. She dared not confess it to her sister in any direct statement, for that would be laying herself open to a demonstration that she was somehow or other at war with all goodness. But on safe opportunities, she had an indirect mode of making her negative wisdom tell upon Dorothea, and calling her down from her rhapsodic mood by reminding her that people were staring, not listening. Celia was not impulsive: what she had to say could wait, and came from her always with the same quiet staccato evenness. When people talked with energy and emphasis she watched their faces and features merely. She never could understand how well-bred persons consented to sing and open their mouths in the ridiculous manner requisite for that vocal exercise.
沉迷于这种厌恶之中是西莉亚私人的奢侈。她不敢在任何直接的陈述中向她姐姐坦白这一点，因为那样就会暴露出她在某种程度上与所有善良作斗争。但在安全的机会下，她会采取一种间接的方式，让她的消极智慧告诉多萝西娅，并提醒她人们只是盯着看，而不是倾听，从而将她从狂喜的情绪中拉下来。西莉亚并不冲动：她要说的话可以等一等，而且总是以同样安静、断断续续的平稳语气说出来。当人们充满活力和强调地交谈时，她只是观察他们的脸和特征。她永远无法理解有教养的人如何同意唱歌并以这种声音练习所需的可笑方式张开嘴。

It was not many days before Mr. Casaubon paid a morning visit, on which he was invited again for the following week to dine and stay the night. Thus Dorothea had three more conversations with him, and was convinced that her first impressions had been just. He was all she had at first imagined him to be: almost everything he had said seemed like a specimen from a mine, or the inscription on the door of a museum which might open on the treasures of past ages; and this trust in his mental wealth was all the deeper and more effective on her inclination because it was now obvious that his visits were made for her sake. This accomplished man condescended to think of a young girl, and take the pains to talk to her, not with absurd compliment, but with an appeal to her understanding, and sometimes with instructive correction. What delightful companionship! Mr. Casaubon seemed even unconscious that trivialities existed, and never handed round that small-talk of heavy men which is as acceptable as stale bride-cake brought forth with an odor of cupboard. He talked of what he was interested in, or else he was silent and bowed with sad civility. To Dorothea this was adorable genuineness, and religious abstinence from that artificiality which uses up the soul in the efforts of pretence. For she looked as reverently at Mr. Casaubon’s religious elevation above herself as she did at his intellect and learning. He assented to her expressions of devout feeling, and usually with an appropriate quotation; he allowed himself to say that he had gone through some spiritual conflicts in his youth; in short, Dorothea saw that here she might reckon on understanding, sympathy, and guidance. On one—only one—of her favorite themes she was disappointed. Mr. Casaubon apparently did not care about building cottages, and diverted the talk to the extremely narrow accommodation which was to be had in the dwellings of the ancient Egyptians, as if to check a too high standard. After he was gone, Dorothea dwelt with some agitation on this indifference of his; and her mind was much exercised with arguments drawn from the varying conditions of climate which modify human needs, and from the admitted wickedness of pagan despots. Should she not urge these arguments on Mr. Casaubon when he came again? But further reflection told her that she was presumptuous in demanding his attention to such a subject; he would not disapprove of her occupying herself with it in leisure moments, as other women expected to occupy themselves with their dress and embroidery—would not forbid it when—Dorothea felt rather ashamed as she detected herself in these speculations. But her uncle had been invited to go to Lowick to stay a couple of days: was it reasonable to suppose that Mr. Casaubon delighted in Mr. Brooke’s society for its own sake, either with or without documents?
没过几天，卡苏邦先生早上来访，并在接下来的一周再次受邀共进晚餐并过夜。就这样，多萝西娅又与他交谈了三遍，并确信她的第一印象是公正的。他就是她最初想象中的样子：几乎他所说的一切都像是来自矿井的标本，或者是博物馆门上的铭文，可能会打开过去时代的宝藏；但他所说的一切都像是来自矿井的标本，或者是博物馆门上的铭文，可能会打开过去时代的宝藏；这种对他精神财富的信任对她的倾向来说更加深刻和有效，因为现在很明显他的来访是为了她。这个有成就的男人屈尊想到一个年轻的女孩，不厌其烦地与她交谈，不是用荒谬的恭维，而是呼吁她的理解，有时还带有指导性的纠正。多么令人愉快的陪伴啊！卡苏邦先生似乎甚至没有意识到琐事的存在，而且从不传递那些沉重男人的闲聊，这种闲聊就像带着橱柜气味的陈旧新娘蛋糕一样可以接受。他谈论他感兴趣的事情，或者他保持沉默，并以悲伤的礼貌鞠躬。对多萝西娅来说，这是可爱的真诚，也是对那种在伪装的努力中耗尽灵魂的人为的宗教戒律。因为她对卡苏朋先生的宗教信仰高于自己，就像她对他的智慧和学识一样虔诚。他同意她表达的虔诚之情，并且通常会引用适当的引语。他承认自己年轻时经历过一些精神冲突。简而言之，多萝西娅认为在这里她可以指望理解、同情和指导。她对她最喜欢的主题中的一个（只有一个）感到失望。先生。 卡苏邦显然并不关心建造别墅，而是把话题转到古埃及人住宅中极其狭窄的住宿上，似乎是为了检查过高的标准。他走后，多萝西娅对他的冷漠感到有些不安。她的思想受到了很大的锻炼，这些论据来自改变人类需求的不同气候条件，以及异教暴君公认的邪恶。当卡苏邦先生再来时，她不应该向他提出这些论点吗？但进一步的思考告诉她，她要求他关注这样一个话题是自以为是的。他不会反对她在闲暇时沉迷于这件事，就像其他女人希望自己沉迷于她们的衣服和刺绣一样——也不会禁止——当多萝西娅发现自己陷入这些猜测时，她感到相当羞愧。但她的叔叔被邀请去洛威克待几天：是否可以合理地假设卡苏邦先生为了布鲁克先生的社交而高兴，无论有没有文件？

Meanwhile that little disappointment made her delight the more in Sir James Chettam’s readiness to set on foot the desired improvements. He came much oftener than Mr. Casaubon, and Dorothea ceased to find him disagreeable since he showed himself so entirely in earnest; for he had already entered with much practical ability into Lovegood’s estimates, and was charmingly docile. She proposed to build a couple of cottages, and transfer two families from their old cabins, which could then be pulled down, so that new ones could be built on the old sites. Sir James said ‘Exactly,’ and she bore the word remarkably well.
与此同时，这种小小的失望让她对詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士准备好着手实现预期的改进感到更加高兴。他比卡苏朋先生来得更频繁，多萝西娅不再觉得他令人不快，因为他表现得如此认真。因为他的实际能力已经进入了洛夫古德的估计，并且非常温顺。她提议建几间小屋，把两户人家的旧小屋搬出来，然后把旧小屋拆掉，在旧址上盖新的。詹姆斯爵士说“完全正确”，她对这句话的理解非常好。

Certainly these men who had so few spontaneous ideas might be very useful members of society under good feminine direction, if they were fortunate in choosing their sisters-in-law! It is difficult to say whether there was or was not a little wilfulness in her continuing blind to the possibility that another sort of choice was in question in relation to her. But her life was just now full of hope and action: she was not only thinking of her plans, but getting down learned books from the library and reading many things hastily (that she might be a little less ignorant in talking to Mr. Casaubon), all the while being visited with conscientious questionings whether she were not exalting these poor doings above measure and contemplating them with that self-satisfaction which was the last doom of ignorance and folly.
当然，这些几乎没有自发想法的男人在良好的女性指导下可能会成为社会上非常有用的成员，如果他们幸运地选择了他们的嫂子的话！很难说她继续对与她有关的另一种选择的可能性视而不见，这是否有一点任性。但她的生活现在却充满了希望和行动：她不仅在思考自己的计划，还从图书馆拿起学过的书，匆匆地读了很多东西（这样她在和卡苏邦先生交谈时可能会少一些无知）一直以来，人们都在认真地询问她是否对这些糟糕的行为进行了过度的赞扬，并以自我满足的态度思考它们，这是无知和愚蠢的最后厄运。

CHAPTER IV
第四章

1st Gent. Our deeds are fetters that we forge ourselves.
第一绅士。我们的行为是我们为自己打造的枷锁。

2d Gent. Ay, truly: but I think it is the world
2d 绅士。哎，确实如此：但我认为这就是世界

That brings the iron.
那带来了铁。

‘Sir James seems determined to do everything you wish,’ said Celia, as they were driving home from an inspection of the new building-site.
“詹姆斯爵士似乎决心做你想做的一切，”西莉亚说，当时他们视察完新建筑工地开车回家。

‘He is a good creature, and more sensible than any one would imagine,’ said Dorothea, inconsiderately.
“他是个好人，而且比任何人想象的都聪明。”多萝西娅漫不经心地说。

‘You mean that he appears silly.’
“你的意思是他看起来很傻。”

‘No, no,’ said Dorothea, recollecting herself, and laying her hand on her sister’s a moment, ‘but he does not talk equally well on all subjects.’
“不，不，”多萝西娅回过神来，把手放在妹妹的手上，“但他并不是在所有话题上都说得同样好。”

‘I should think none but disagreeable people do,’ said Celia, in her usual purring way. ‘They must be very dreadful to live with. Only think! at breakfast, and always.’
“我想除了讨厌的人之外，没有人会这样做。”西莉亚用她一贯的咕噜声说道。 “和他们一起生活一定很可怕。只想到！早餐时，而且总是如此。”

Dorothea laughed. ‘O Kitty, you are a wonderful creature!’ She pinched Celia’s chin, being in the mood now to think her very winning and lovely—fit hereafter to be an eternal cherub, and if it were not doctrinally wrong to say so, hardly more in need of salvation than a squirrel. ‘Of course people need not be always talking well. Only one tells the quality of their minds when they try to talk well.’
多萝西娅笑了。 “哦，基蒂，你真是一个奇妙的生物！”她捏住西莉亚的下巴，现在心情很好，觉得她非常迷人，非常可爱——适合在以后成为一个永恒的小天使，如果这样说在教义上没有错的话，也差不多了。比松鼠更需要救赎。 “当然，人们不必总是说得很好。只有当他们试图好好说话时，才能看出他们的思想品质。”

‘You mean that Sir James tries and fails.’
“你的意思是詹姆斯爵士尝试过但失败了。”

‘I was speaking generally. Why do you catechise me about Sir James? It is not the object of his life to please me.’
“我说的是一般情况。你为什么要问我关于詹姆斯爵士的问题？他一生的目标不是取悦我。”

‘Now, Dodo, can you really believe that?’
“现在，多多，你真的能相信吗？”

‘Certainly. He thinks of me as a future sister—that is all.’ Dorothea had never hinted this before, waiting, from a certain shyness on such subjects which was mutual between the sisters, until it should be introduced by some decisive event. Celia blushed, but said at once—
'当然。他把我当作未来的妹妹——仅此而已。”多萝西娅以前从未暗示过这一点，她一直在等待，因为姐妹之间在这些话题上都有些害羞，直到某个决定性的事件引起了这一点。塞莉亚脸红了，但立刻说道——

‘Pray do not make that mistake any longer, Dodo. When Tantripp was brushing my hair the other day, she said that Sir James’s man knew from Mrs. Cadwallader’s maid that Sir James was to marry the eldest Miss Brooke.’
“祈祷不要再犯这个错误了，渡渡鸟。”那天坦特里普给我梳头时，她说詹姆斯爵士的男人从卡德沃拉德夫人的女仆那里知道詹姆斯爵士要娶大小姐布鲁克。

‘How can you let Tantripp talk such gossip to you, Celia?’ said Dorothea, indignantly, not the less angry because details asleep in her memory were now awakened to confirm the unwelcome revelation. ‘You must have asked her questions. It is degrading.’
“西莉亚，你怎么能让坦特里普跟你说这样的八卦？”多萝西娅愤怒地说，但她的愤怒却丝毫没有减弱，因为她记忆中沉睡的细节现在被唤醒，证实了这个不受欢迎的事实。 “你一定问过她问题。这是有辱人格的。

‘I see no harm at all in Tantripp’s talking to me. It is better to hear what people say. You see what mistakes you make by taking up notions. I am quite sure that Sir James means to make you an offer; and he believes that you will accept him, especially since you have been so pleased with him about the plans. And uncle too—I know he expects it. Every one can see that Sir James is very much in love with you.’
“我认为坦特里普跟我说话没有任何坏处。最好听听人们怎么说。通过接受观念，你会看到自己犯了什么错误。我确信詹姆斯爵士有意向你提出要约；他相信你会接受他，特别是因为你对他的计划非常满意。还有叔叔——我知道他也期待着这一点。每个人都可以看出詹姆斯爵士非常爱你。

The revulsion was so strong and painful in Dorothea’s mind that the tears welled up and flowed abundantly. All her dear plans were embittered, and she thought with disgust of Sir James’s conceiving that she recognized him as her lover. There was vexation too on account of Celia.
多萝西娅心中的厌恶是如此强烈和痛苦，以致泪水夺眶而出。她所有美好的计划都变得痛苦起来，她厌恶地想到詹姆斯爵士认为她承认他是她的情人。也有人因为西莉亚而烦恼。

‘How could he expect it?’ she burst forth in her most impetuous manner. ‘I have never agreed with him about anything but the cottages: I was barely polite to him before.’
“他怎么能想到呢？”她以最急躁的方式脱口而出。 “除了小屋之外，我从来没有在任何事情上与他达成一致：我以前对他几乎没有礼貌。”

‘But you have been so pleased with him since then; he has begun to feel quite sure that you are fond of him.’
“但从那时起你就对他非常满意；他已经开始非常确定你喜欢他。

‘Fond of him, Celia! How can you choose such odious expressions?’ said Dorothea, passionately.
‘喜欢他，西莉亚！你怎么能选择如此令人厌恶的表达方式呢？”多萝西娅热情地说。

‘Dear me, Dorothea, I suppose it would be right for you to be fond of a man whom you accepted for a husband.’
“亲爱的，多萝西娅，我想你喜欢一个你接受为丈夫的男人是正确的。”

‘It is offensive to me to say that Sir James could think I was fond of him. Besides, it is not the right word for the feeling I must have towards the man I would accept as a husband.’
“说詹姆斯爵士可能认为我喜欢他，这对我来说是一种冒犯。此外，这个词并不适合表达我对我愿意接受作为丈夫的男人的感觉。”

‘Well, I am sorry for Sir James. I thought it right to tell you, because you went on as you always do, never looking just where you are, and treading in the wrong place. You always see what nobody else sees; it is impossible to satisfy you; yet you never see what is quite plain. That’s your way, Dodo.’ Something certainly gave Celia unusual courage; and she was not sparing the sister of whom she was occasionally in awe. Who can tell what just criticisms Murr the Cat may be passing on us beings of wider speculation?
“嗯，我为詹姆斯爵士感到抱歉。我认为告诉你是对的，因为你一如既往地继续前进，从不只看自己所在的位置，而且踏错了地方。你总是看到别人看到的；不可能让你满意；但你永远看不到什么是非常简单的。这就是你的方式，多多。”肯定有什么东西给了西莉亚不同寻常的勇气。她也没有放过她偶尔敬畏的妹妹。谁能告诉我们，穆尔猫可能会向我们这些更广泛的猜测者传递什么公正的批评？

‘It is very painful,’ said Dorothea, feeling scourged. ‘I can have no more to do with the cottages. I must be uncivil to him. I must tell him I will have nothing to do with them. It is very painful.’ Her eyes filled again with tears.
“这非常痛苦，”多萝西娅说，感到受到了鞭笞。 “我再也不能和这些小屋有任何关系了。我一定对他不客气。我必须告诉他我不会和他们有任何关系。这是非常痛苦的。”她的眼睛里再次充满了泪水。

‘Wait a little. Think about it. You know he is going away for a day or two to see his sister. There will be nobody besides Lovegood.’ Celia could not help relenting. ‘Poor Dodo,’ she went on, in an amiable staccato. ‘It is very hard: it is your favorite FAD to draw plans.’
'等一下。想一想。你知道他要离开一两天去看他的妹妹。除了洛夫古德之外，不会有任何人。”西莉亚忍不住软化了。 “可怜的渡渡鸟，”她用和蔼可亲的断断续续的声音继续说道。 “这非常困难：绘制计划是你最喜欢的时尚。”

‘FAD to draw plans! Do you think I only care about my fellow-creatures’ houses in that childish way? I may well make mistakes. How can one ever do anything nobly Christian, living among people with such petty thoughts?’
‘FAD 制定计划！你以为我就这么幼稚地关心同类的房子吗？我很可能会犯错误。一个人生活在思想如此狭隘的人群中，怎么能做一些高尚的基督徒事情呢？

No more was said; Dorothea was too much jarred to recover her temper and behave so as to show that she admitted any error in herself. She was disposed rather to accuse the intolerable narrowness and the purblind conscience of the society around her: and Celia was no longer the eternal cherub, but a thorn in her spirit, a pink-and-white nullifidian, worse than any discouraging presence in the ‘Pilgrim’s Progress.’ The FAD of drawing plans! What was life worth—what great faith was possible when the whole effect of one’s actions could be withered up into such parched rubbish as that? When she got out of the carriage, her cheeks were pale and her eyelids red. She was an image of sorrow, and her uncle who met her in the hall would have been alarmed, if Celia had not been close to her looking so pretty and composed, that he at once concluded Dorothea’s tears to have their origin in her excessive religiousness. He had returned, during their absence, from a journey to the county town, about a petition for the pardon of some criminal.
没有再说什么；多萝西娅太震惊了，无法恢复脾气，也无法表现出她承认自己的任何错误。她宁愿指责她周围的社会令人难以忍受的狭隘和愚昧的良知：西莉亚不再是永恒的小天使，而是她精神上的一根刺，一个粉红色和白色的无效者，比世界上任何令人沮丧的存在更糟糕。 “天路历程”。绘制平面图的时尚！当一个人的行为的全部效果都会枯萎成这样干枯的垃圾时，生命还有什么价值——还有什么伟大的信仰呢？下了马车，她脸颊苍白，眼皮泛红。她是一个悲伤的形象，如果西莉亚不是离她很近，看起来如此美丽和镇定，她的叔叔在大厅里遇见她一定会感到震惊，他立即断定多萝西娅的眼泪源于她过度的虔诚。他们不在期间，他从县城回来，是为了请愿赦免某个罪犯。

‘Well, my dears,’ he said, kindly, as they went up to kiss him, ‘I hope nothing disagreeable has happened while I have been away.’
“好吧，亲爱的，”当他们上前亲吻他时，他和蔼地说，“我希望我离开期间没有发生任何不愉快的事情。”

‘No, uncle,’ said Celia, ‘we have been to Freshitt to look at the cottages. We thought you would have been at home to lunch.’
“不，叔叔，”西莉亚说，“我们去弗雷希特看小屋了。我们以为你会在家吃午饭。”

‘I came by Lowick to lunch—you didn’t know I came by Lowick. And I have brought a couple of pamphlets for you, Dorothea—in the library, you know; they lie on the table in the library.’
“我经过洛威克来吃午饭——你不知道我是经过洛威克来的。我给你带来了几本小册子，多萝西娅——你知道，在图书馆里；它们躺在图书馆的桌子上。”

It seemed as if an electric stream went through Dorothea, thrilling her from despair into expectation. They were pamphlets about the early Church. The oppression of Celia, Tantripp, and Sir James was shaken off, and she walked straight to the library. Celia went up-stairs. Mr. Brooke was detained by a message, but when he re-entered the library, he found Dorothea seated and already deep in one of the pamphlets which had some marginal manuscript of Mr. Casaubon’s,—taking it in as eagerly as she might have taken in the scent of a fresh bouquet after a dry, hot, dreary walk.
仿佛有一股电流流过多萝西娅的全身，让她从绝望转为期待。它们是关于早期教会的小册子。塞莉亚、坦特里普和詹姆斯爵士的压迫被甩开，她径直朝图书馆走去。西莉亚上楼了。布鲁克先生被一条信息耽搁了，但当他重新进入图书馆时，他发现多萝西娅已经坐在一本小册子里，里面有一些卡苏邦先生的边缘手稿，她尽可能地热切地阅读它。经过干燥、炎热、沉闷的步行后，闻到新鲜花束的香味。

She was getting away from Tipton and Freshitt, and her own sad liability to tread in the wrong places on her way to the New Jerusalem.
她正在远离蒂普顿和弗雷希特，以及她自己在前往新耶路撒冷的路上走错地方的可悲责任。

Mr. Brooke sat down in his arm-chair, stretched his legs towards the wood-fire, which had fallen into a wondrous mass of glowing dice between the dogs, and rubbed his hands gently, looking very mildly towards Dorothea, but with a neutral leisurely air, as if he had nothing particular to say. Dorothea closed her pamphlet, as soon as she was aware of her uncle’s presence, and rose as if to go. Usually she would have been interested about her uncle’s merciful errand on behalf of the criminal, but her late agitation had made her absent-minded.
布鲁克先生在扶手椅上坐下，把双腿伸向柴火，柴火已经落入狗之间一团奇妙的发光骰子，他轻轻地擦了擦双手，目光非常温和地看着多萝西娅，但语气中性。神态悠然，仿佛没有什么特别要说的。多萝西娅一意识到叔叔的存在，就合上小册子，站起身来，似乎要走。通常她会对叔叔为罪犯所做的仁慈的差事感兴趣，但她最近的激动让她心不在焉。

‘I came back by Lowick, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, not as if with any intention to arrest her departure, but apparently from his usual tendency to say what he had said before. This fundamental principle of human speech was markedly exhibited in Mr. Brooke. ‘I lunched there and saw Casaubon’s library, and that kind of thing. There’s a sharp air, driving. Won’t you sit down, my dear? You look cold.’
“你知道，我是从洛威克回来的，”布鲁克先生说道，似乎无意阻止她离开，但显然是出于他一贯的倾向，说他以前说过的话。人类言语的这一基本原则在布鲁克先生身上得到了明显的体现。 “我在那里吃午饭，参观了卡索邦的图书馆之类的东西。空气清新，开车。亲爱的，你不坐下吗？你看起来很冷。

Dorothea felt quite inclined to accept the invitation. Some times, when her uncle’s easy way of taking things did not happen to be exasperating, it was rather soothing. She threw off her mantle and bonnet, and sat down opposite to him, enjoying the glow, but lifting up her beautiful hands for a screen. They were not thin hands, or small hands; but powerful, feminine, maternal hands. She seemed to be holding them up in propitiation for her passionate desire to know and to think, which in the unfriendly mediums of Tipton and Freshitt had issued in crying and red eyelids.
多萝西娅很愿意接受这个邀请。有时候，她叔叔的随遇而安的态度并没有让人恼火，反而让人感到安慰。她脱掉斗篷和帽子，在他对面坐下，享受着光芒，但举起美丽的双手挡住了屏风。它们的手并不瘦，也不小；它们的手很细，很细。而是有力、女性化、母性的双手。她似乎在安抚她对知识和思考的强烈渴望，而在蒂普顿和弗雷希特不友好的媒介中，她表现出了哭泣和红眼睑。

She bethought herself now of the condemned criminal. ‘What news have you brought about the sheep-stealer, uncle?’
她现在想起了那个被判死刑的罪犯。 “叔叔，你带来了关于偷羊贼的什么消息？”

‘What, poor Bunch?—well, it seems we can’t get him off—he is to be hanged.’
“什么，可怜的邦奇？——好吧，看来我们无法把他甩掉——他要被绞死。”

Dorothea’s brow took an expression of reprobation and pity.
多萝西娅的眉头露出责备和怜悯的表情。

‘Hanged, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, with a quiet nod. ‘Poor Romilly! he would have helped us. I knew Romilly. Casaubon didn’t know Romilly. He is a little buried in books, you know, Casaubon is.’
“绞死，你知道，”布鲁克先生轻轻地点点头说道。可怜的罗米莉！他会帮助我们的。我认识罗米利。卡苏朋不认识罗米莉。他有点沉迷于书本，你知道，卡索邦就是这样。”

‘When a man has great studies and is writing a great work, he must of course give up seeing much of the world. How can he go about making acquaintances?’
“当一个人学识渊博，正在写一部伟大的作品时，他当然必须放弃见识太多的世界。他怎样才能去结识呢？

‘That’s true. But a man mopes, you know. I have always been a bachelor too, but I have that sort of disposition that I never moped; it was my way to go about everywhere and take in everything. I never moped: but I can see that Casaubon does, you know. He wants a companion—a companion, you know.’
'这是真的。但男人却闷闷不乐，你知道。我也一直是个单身汉，但我有那种从来不闷闷不乐的性格；这是我到处走走、吸收一切的方式。我从来没有骑过摩托车：但我可以看到卡索邦确实如此，你知道。他想要一个同伴——一个同伴，你知道的。

‘It would be a great honor to any one to be his companion,’ said Dorothea, energetically.
“如果有人能成为他的同伴，那将是一种莫大的荣幸。”多萝西娅精力充沛地说。

‘You like him, eh?’ said Mr. Brooke, without showing any surprise, or other emotion. ‘Well, now, I’ve known Casaubon ten years, ever since he came to Lowick. But I never got anything out of him—any ideas, you know. However, he is a tiptop man and may be a bishop—that kind of thing, you know, if Peel stays in. And he has a very high opinion of you, my dear.’
“你喜欢他，嗯？”布鲁克先生说道，没有表现出任何惊讶或其他情绪。 “好吧，自从卡苏邦来到洛伊克以来，我已经认识他十年了。但我从来没有从他那里得到任何东西——任何想法，你知道。然而，他是一个顶尖的人，可能会成为一名主教——这种事情，你知道，如果皮尔留下来的话。而且他对你的评价非常高，亲爱的。

Dorothea could not speak.
多萝西娅说不出话来。

‘The fact is, he has a very high opinion indeed of you. And he speaks uncommonly well—does Casaubon. He has deferred to me, you not being of age. In short, I have promised to speak to you, though I told him I thought there was not much chance. I was bound to tell him that. I said, my niece is very young, and that kind of thing. But I didn’t think it necessary to go into everything. However, the long and the short of it is, that he has asked my permission to make you an offer of marriage—of marriage, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, with his explanatory nod. ‘I thought it better to tell you, my dear.’
“事实上，他对你的评价确实很高。他的讲话非常好——卡苏朋也是如此。他已经听从我的安排了，你还没有成年。简而言之，我已经答应和你谈谈，尽管我告诉他我认为机会不大。我一定要告诉他这一点。我说，我侄女还很小，之类的。但我认为没有必要详述所有事情。然而，总而言之，他已经请求我允许向你求婚——你知道，结婚，”布鲁克先生解释性地点点头说道。 “我认为最好告诉你，亲爱的。”

No one could have detected any anxiety in Mr. Brooke’s manner, but he did really wish to know something of his niece’s mind, that, if there were any need for advice, he might give it in time. What feeling he, as a magistrate who had taken in so many ideas, could make room for, was unmixedly kind. Since Dorothea did not speak immediately, he repeated, ‘I thought it better to tell you, my dear.’
没人能从布鲁克先生的态度中看出任何焦虑，但他确实很想知道他侄女的想法，这样，如果需要任何建议，他可以及时提供。作为一个吸收了如此多想法的地方法官，他能腾出空间的感觉是纯粹的善良。由于多萝西娅没有立即说话，他重复道：“我认为最好告诉你，亲爱的。”

‘Thank you, uncle,’ said Dorothea, in a clear unwavering tone. ‘I am very grateful to Mr. Casaubon. If he makes me an offer, I shall accept him. I admire and honor him more than any man I ever saw.’
“谢谢你，叔叔。”多萝西娅用清晰坚定的语气说道。 “我非常感谢卡苏邦先生。如果他向我提出要约，我就会接受他。我比我见过的任何人都更加钦佩和尊敬他。

Mr. Brooke paused a little, and then said in a lingering low tone, ‘Ah? … Well! He is a good match in some respects. But now, Chettam is a good match. And our land lies together. I shall never interfere against your wishes, my dear. People should have their own way in marriage, and that sort of thing—up to a certain point, you know. I have always said that, up to a certain point. I wish you to marry well; and I have good reason to believe that Chettam wishes to marry you. I mention it, you know.’
布鲁克先生顿了顿，然后用低沉的声音说道：“啊？ … 出色地！从某些方面来说，他是很般配的。但现在，切塔姆是一个很好的搭配。我们的土地连在一起。我永远不会干涉你的意愿，亲爱的。人们在婚姻中应该有自己的方式，诸如此类的事情——在某种程度上，你知道。在某种程度上，我一直这么说。祝你嫁得好；我有充分的理由相信切塔姆想娶你。我提到过，你知道。

‘It is impossible that I should ever marry Sir James Chettam,’ said Dorothea. ‘If he thinks of marrying me, he has made a great mistake.’
“我不可能嫁给詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士，”多萝西娅说。 “如果他想娶我，那他就犯了一个很大的错误。”

‘That is it, you see. One never knows. I should have thought Chettam was just the sort of man a woman would like, now.’
‘就是这样，你看。人们永远不知道。我现在应该认为切塔姆正是女人会喜欢的那种男人。

‘Pray do not mention him in that light again, uncle,’ said Dorothea, feeling some of her late irritation revive.
“叔叔，请不要再用这种方式提及他。”多萝西娅说道，感觉她迟来的一些恼怒又卷土重来了。

Mr. Brooke wondered, and felt that women were an inexhaustible subject of study, since even he at his age was not in a perfect state of scientific prediction about them. Here was a fellow like Chettam with no chance at all.
布鲁克先生感到好奇，并认为女性是一个取之不尽的研究对象，因为即使是他这个年纪，也无法对她们进行完美的科学预测。像切塔姆这样的人根本没有机会。

‘Well, but Casaubon, now. There is no hurry—I mean for you. It’s true, every year will tell upon him. He is over five-and-forty, you know. I should say a good seven-and-twenty years older than you. To be sure,—if you like learning and standing, and that sort of thing, we can’t have everything. And his income is good—he has a handsome property independent of the Church—his income is good. Still he is not young, and I must not conceal from you, my dear, that I think his health is not over-strong. I know nothing else against him.’
“好吧，但是卡索邦，现在。”不着急——我是说对你来说。确实如此，每一年都会对他产生影响。你知道，他已经五四十多岁了。应该说比你大七岁二十岁。可以肯定的是，如果你喜欢学习和站立之类的东西，我们不可能拥有一切。而且他的收入也不错——他有一大笔独立于教会的财产——他的收入也不错。不过他也不年轻了，亲爱的，我不能向你隐瞒，我认为他的健康状况还不错。我对他一无所知。

‘I should not wish to have a husband very near my own age,’ said Dorothea, with grave decision. ‘I should wish to have a husband who was above me in judgment and in all knowledge.’
“我不希望有一个与我年龄相仿的丈夫，”多萝西娅做出了严肃的决定。 “我希望有一个在判断力和知识方面都比我强的丈夫。”

Mr. Brooke repeated his subdued, ‘Ah?—I thought you had more of your own opinion than most girls. I thought you liked your own opinion—liked it, you know.’
布鲁克先生低声重复道：“啊？——我以为你比大多数女孩更有自己的主见。”我以为你喜欢你自己的观点——喜欢它，你知道的。

‘I cannot imagine myself living without some opinions, but I should wish to have good reasons for them, and a wise man could help me to see which opinions had the best foundation, and would help me to live according to them.’
“我无法想象自己在没有某些观点的情况下生活，但我希望这些观点有充分的理由，一个智者可以帮助我了解哪些观点有最好的基础，并帮助我按照它们生活。”

‘Very true. You couldn’t put the thing better—couldn’t put it better, beforehand, you know. But there are oddities in things,’ continued Mr. Brooke, whose conscience was really roused to do the best he could for his niece on this occasion. ‘Life isn’t cast in a mould—not cut out by rule and line, and that sort of thing. I never married myself, and it will be the better for you and yours. The fact is, I never loved any one well enough to put myself into a noose for them. It IS a noose, you know. Temper, now. There is temper. And a husband likes to be master.’
‘非常正确。你无法把事情说得更好——事前无法说得更好，你知道。但事情总有奇怪的地方，”布鲁克先生继续说道，这次他的良心真的被唤醒了，他为他的侄女尽了最大的努力。 “生活不是模子里铸出来的——不是由规则和路线之类的东西剪出来的。我自己从未结婚，这对你和你的家人都更好。事实上，我从来没有爱过任何一个人，以至于为了他们而把自己套在绞索里。你知道，它是一个绞索。脾气，现在。有脾气。丈夫喜欢当主人。”

‘I know that I must expect trials, uncle. Marriage is a state of higher duties. I never thought of it as mere personal ease,’ said poor Dorothea.
“我知道我必须等待考验，叔叔。婚姻是一种更高的责任状态。我从来不认为这只是个人的安逸，”可怜的多萝西娅说。

‘Well, you are not fond of show, a great establishment, balls, dinners, that kind of thing. I can see that Casaubon’s ways might suit you better than Chettam’s. And you shall do as you like, my dear. I would not hinder Casaubon; I said so at once; for there is no knowing how anything may turn out. You have not the same tastes as every young lady; and a clergyman and scholar—who may be a bishop—that kind of thing—may suit you better than Chettam. Chettam is a good fellow, a good sound-hearted fellow, you know; but he doesn’t go much into ideas. I did, when I was his age. But Casaubon’s eyes, now. I think he has hurt them a little with too much reading.’
“好吧，你不喜欢表演、大场所、舞会、晚宴之类的东西。我看得出卡索邦的方式可能比切塔姆的方式更适合你。你可以做你喜欢做的事，亲爱的。我不会阻碍卡苏朋；我立刻这么说；因为不知道事情会怎样发展。你的品味与每个年轻女士不同；牧师和学者——可能是主教——之类的人——可能比切塔姆更适合你。你知道，切塔姆是一个好人，一个心地善良的好人。但他并没有过多谈论想法。我在他这个年纪的时候就这么做了。但现在卡索邦的眼睛。我认为他读书过多对他们造成了一些伤害。”

‘I should be all the happier, uncle, the more room there was for me to help him,’ said Dorothea, ardently.
“叔叔，我应该更高兴，因为我有更多的空间来帮助他，”多萝西娅热切地说。

‘You have quite made up your mind, I see. Well, my dear, the fact is, I have a letter for you in my pocket.’ Mr. Brooke handed the letter to Dorothea, but as she rose to go away, he added, ‘There is not too much hurry, my dear. Think about it, you know.’
“我明白了，你已经下定决心了。好吧，亲爱的，事实是，我口袋里有一封给你的信。”布鲁克先生把信递给多萝西娅，但当她起身要走时，他补充道：“亲爱的，不必太着急。 。想想看，你就知道了。

When Dorothea had left him, he reflected that he had certainly spoken strongly: he had put the risks of marriage before her in a striking manner. It was his duty to do so. But as to pretending to be wise for young people,—no uncle, however much he had travelled in his youth, absorbed the new ideas, and dined with celebrities now deceased, could pretend to judge what sort of marriage would turn out well for a young girl who preferred Casaubon to Chettam. In short, woman was a problem which, since Mr. Brooke’s mind felt blank before it, could be hardly less complicated than the revolutions of an irregular solid.
当多萝西娅离开他时，他反思自己的言辞确实很强烈：他以惊人的方式将婚姻的风险摆在她面前。这样做是他的职责。但至于假装对年轻人来说是明智的，没有一个叔叔，无论他年轻时游历了多少地方，吸收了新思想，与现已去世的名人共进晚餐，都无法假装判断什么样的婚姻对一个人来说会是好的。比起切塔姆，她更喜欢卡索邦的年轻女孩。简而言之，女人是一个问题，因为布鲁克先生的大脑在这之前感到一片空白，所以它的复杂性几乎不亚于不规则固体的旋转。

CHAPTER V
第五章

‘Hard students are commonly troubled with gowts, catarrhs, rheums, cachexia, bradypepsia, bad eyes, stone, and collick, crudities, oppilations, vertigo, winds, consumptions, and all such diseases as come by over-much sitting: they are most part lean, dry, ill-colored … and all through immoderate pains and extraordinary studies. If you will not believe the truth of this, look upon great Tostatus and Thomas Aquainas’ works; and tell me whether those men took pains.’—BURTON’S Anatomy of Melancholy, P. I, s. 2.
“勤奋的学生通常会受到口疮、粘膜炎、风湿病、恶病质、消化缓慢、眼睛不好、结石、眼痛、粗鲁、眼花、眩晕、风、肺痨以及所有因久坐而引起的疾病的困扰：他们最容易患上这种疾病。”部分瘦弱、干燥、颜色不佳……这一切都是通过无节制的痛苦和非凡的研究完成的。如果你不相信这个事实，请看看伟大的托斯塔图斯和托马斯·阿奎纳斯的作品；告诉我那些人是否煞费苦心。”——《伯顿的忧郁解剖》，P. I, s. 2.

This was Mr. Casaubon’s letter.
这是卡苏邦先生的信。

MY DEAR MISS BROOKE,—I have your guardian’s permission to address you on a subject than which I have none more at heart. I am not, I trust, mistaken in the recognition of some deeper correspondence than that of date in the fact that a consciousness of need in my own life had arisen contemporaneously with the possibility of my becoming acquainted with you. For in the first hour of meeting you, I had an impression of your eminent and perhaps exclusive fitness to supply that need (connected, I may say, with such activity of the affections as even the preoccupations of a work too special to be abdicated could not uninterruptedly dissimulate); and each succeeding opportunity for observation has given the impression an added depth by convincing me more emphatically of that fitness which I had preconceived, and thus evoking more decisively those affections to which I have but now referred. Our conversations have, I think, made sufficiently clear to you the tenor of my life and purposes: a tenor unsuited, I am aware, to the commoner order of minds. But I have discerned in you an elevation of thought and a capability of devotedness, which I had hitherto not conceived to be compatible either with the early bloom of youth or with those graces of sex that may be said at once to win and to confer distinction when combined, as they notably are in you, with the mental qualities above indicated. It was, I confess, beyond my hope to meet with this rare combination of elements both solid and attractive, adapted to supply aid in graver labors and to cast a charm over vacant hours; and but for the event of my introduction to you (which, let me again say, I trust not to be superficially coincident with foreshadowing needs, but providentially related thereto as stages towards the completion of a life’s plan), I should presumably have gone on to the last without any attempt to lighten my solitariness by a matrimonial union.
我亲爱的布鲁克小姐：我得到了你监护人的许可，可以就一个我并不关心的话题向你发表讲话。我相信，我并没有错误地认识到比日期更深层的对应关系，因为我自己生活中的一种需要意识是在我有可能结识你的同时出现的。因为在见到你的第一个小时里，我就对你的印象是你卓越的、也许是独一无二的适合满足这种需要（我可以说，与情感的活跃有关，即使是对一项太特殊而不能放弃的工作的专注也可能会影响到你的需求。不要不间断地掩饰）；接下来的每一次观察机会都使我更加强烈地相信我先前设想的适合性，从而更加果断地唤起我现在提到的那些情感，从而使印象更加深刻。我想，我们的谈话已经让你清楚地了解了我的生活主旨和目的：我知道，这种主旨不适合普通人的思想秩序。但我在你身上看到了一种思想的提升和奉献的能力，迄今为止，我认为这与青春的早期绽放或与那些可以说立即赢得并赋予杰出的性的优雅是相容的。当它们与上述心理素质结合起来时，尤其是在你身上。 我承认，遇到这种既坚固又有吸引力的罕见元素组合超出了我的希望，它适合为更艰巨的工作提供帮助，并为空闲时间增添魅力；如果不是我向你介绍的事件（让我再说一遍，我相信这并不是表面上与预示的需求一致，而是天意地与之相关，作为完成人生计划的阶段），我大概应该继续下去直到最后，我也没有试图通过婚姻来减轻我的孤独。

Such, my dear Miss Brooke, is the accurate statement of my feelings; and I rely on your kind indulgence in venturing now to ask you how far your own are of a nature to confirm my happy presentiment. To be accepted by you as your husband and the earthly guardian of your welfare, I should regard as the highest of providential gifts. In return I can at least offer you an affection hitherto unwasted, and the faithful consecration of a life which, however short in the sequel, has no backward pages whereon, if you choose to turn them, you will find records such as might justly cause you either bitterness or shame. I await the expression of your sentiments with an anxiety which it would be the part of wisdom (were it possible) to divert by a more arduous labor than usual. But in this order of experience I am still young, and in looking forward to an unfavorable possibility I cannot but feel that resignation to solitude will be more difficult after the temporary illumination of hope.
亲爱的布鲁克小姐，这就是我的感受的准确表述；我依靠你的宽容，现在冒险询问你自己的性格在多大程度上证实了我的幸福预感。能够被你接受为你的丈夫和你幸福的尘世守护者，我应该将其视为最高的天赐礼物。作为回报，我至少可以给你一份迄今为止尚未浪费的感情，以及对生命的忠实奉献，无论续集多么短，没有向后的页面，如果你选择翻开它们，你会发现诸如可能公正地导致的记录你要么痛苦，要么羞耻。我怀着焦虑等待着你表达自己的情感，如果有可能的话，我可以用比平常更艰苦的劳动来转移这种焦虑。但就这样的经验来看，我还很年轻，在期待着不利的可能性时，我不禁感到，在希望的暂时曙光之后，屈服于孤独会更加困难。

In any case, I shall remain,
无论如何，我都会留下来，

Yours with sincere devotion,
您的真诚奉献，

EDWARD CASAUBON.
爱德华·卡索邦。

Dorothea trembled while she read this letter; then she fell on her knees, buried her face, and sobbed. She could not pray: under the rush of solemn emotion in which thoughts became vague and images floated uncertainly, she could but cast herself, with a childlike sense of reclining, in the lap of a divine consciousness which sustained her own. She remained in that attitude till it was time to dress for dinner.
多萝西娅读这封信时浑身发抖。然后她跪倒在地，埋着脸抽泣起来。她无法祈祷：在庄严的情感涌动下，思想变得模糊，形象飘浮不定，她只能以一种孩子般的斜倚感，将自己投入到支撑着她自己的神圣意识的怀抱中。她一直保持这种态度，直到穿好衣服去吃晚饭。

How could it occur to her to examine the letter, to look at it critically as a profession of love? Her whole soul was possessed by the fact that a fuller life was opening before her: she was a neophyte about to enter on a higher grade of initiation. She was going to have room for the energies which stirred uneasily under the dimness and pressure of her own ignorance and the petty peremptoriness of the world’s habits.
她怎么会想到去审视这封信，把它当作一种爱的表白来批判性地看待呢？她的整个灵魂都被这样一个事实所占据：更充实的生活正在她面前展开：她是一个即将进入更高级别启蒙的新手。她将为那些在她自己的无知和世界习惯的狭隘专横的昏暗和压力下不安地搅动的能量腾出空间。

Now she would be able to devote herself to large yet definite duties; now she would be allowed to live continually in the light of a mind that she could reverence. This hope was not unmixed with the glow of proud delight—the joyous maiden surprise that she was chosen by the man whom her admiration had chosen. All Dorothea’s passion was transfused through a mind struggling towards an ideal life; the radiance of her transfigured girlhood fell on the first object that came within its level. The impetus with which inclination became resolution was heightened by those little events of the day which had roused her discontent with the actual conditions of her life.
现在她可以全身心地投入到重大而明确的职责中了。现在她将被允许继续生活在她可以尊敬的思想之光中。这种希望中不乏骄傲的喜悦之情——少女惊讶地发现她被她所仰慕的男人选中了。多萝西娅的全部热情都源于一颗为理想生活而奋斗的心灵；她变幻少女时代的光芒落在第一个进入其水平面的物体上。当天发生的那些小事激起了她对自己生活的实际状况的不满，这增强了她从意愿变成决心的动力。

After dinner, when Celia was playing an ‘air, with variations,’ a small kind of tinkling which symbolized the aesthetic part of the young ladies’ education, Dorothea went up to her room to answer Mr. Casaubon’s letter. Why should she defer the answer? She wrote it over three times, not because she wished to change the wording, but because her hand was unusually uncertain, and she could not bear that Mr. Casaubon should think her handwriting bad and illegible. She piqued herself on writing a hand in which each letter was distinguishable without any large range of conjecture, and she meant to make much use of this accomplishment, to save Mr. Casaubon’s eyes. Three times she wrote.
晚饭后，当西莉亚演奏一首“变奏曲”时，这是一种象征着年轻女士教育中审美部分的小叮当声，多萝西娅上楼去她的房间回卡苏邦先生的信。她为什么要推迟答复？她写了三遍，不是因为她想改变措辞，而是因为她的手写得异常不稳定，她无法忍受卡苏邦先生认为她的字迹很糟糕，难以辨认。她很高兴自己写了一个手写体，每个字母都可以区分，没有任何大范围的猜测，她打算充分利用这一成就，以拯救卡苏邦先生的眼睛。她写了三遍。

MY DEAR MR. CASAUBON,—I am very grateful to you for loving me, and thinking me worthy to be your wife. I can look forward to no better happiness than that which would be one with yours. If I said more, it would only be the same thing written out at greater length, for I cannot now dwell on any other thought than that I may be through life
我亲爱的先生。卡索邦，——我非常感谢你爱我，并认为我值得成为你的妻子。我所能期待的幸福莫过于和你在一起。如果我说得更多，那也只是把同样的事情写得更长，因为我现在无法思考任何其他的想法，除了我可能会度过一生。

Yours devotedly,
您的虔诚，

DOROTHEA BROOKE.
多萝西娅·布鲁克。

Later in the evening she followed her uncle into the library to give him the letter, that he might send it in the morning. He was surprised, but his surprise only issued in a few moments’ silence, during which he pushed about various objects on his writing-table, and finally stood with his back to the fire, his glasses on his nose, looking at the address of Dorothea’s letter.
晚上晚些时候，她跟着叔叔走进图书馆，把信交给他，以便他早上寄出去。他很惊讶，但他的惊讶只在片刻的沉默中显现出来，在这期间他推了推写字台上的各种物品，最后背对着火站着，眼镜架在鼻子上，看着对方的地址。多萝西娅的信。

‘Have you thought enough about this, my dear?’ he said at last.
“亲爱的，你想得足够多了吗？”他最后说道。

‘There was no need to think long, uncle. I know of nothing to make me vacillate. If I changed my mind, it must be because of something important and entirely new to me.’
“没必要想太久，叔叔。我不知道没有什么能让我动摇。如果我改变了主意，那一定是因为一些对我来说重要且全新的事情。”

‘Ah!—then you have accepted him? Then Chettam has no chance? Has Chettam offended you—offended you, you know? What is it you don’t like in Chettam?’
‘啊！——那你就接受他了？那么切塔姆就没有机会了吗？切塔姆是否冒犯了你——冒犯了你，你知道吗？你不喜欢切塔姆的什么？

‘There is nothing that I like in him,’ said Dorothea, rather impetuously.
“他身上没有我喜欢的地方，”多萝西娅相当急躁地说。

Mr. Brooke threw his head and shoulders backward as if some one had thrown a light missile at him. Dorothea immediately felt some self-rebuke, and said—
布鲁克先生把头和肩膀向后仰去，好像有人向他扔了一枚轻型导弹。多萝西娅顿时有些自责，说道——

‘I mean in the light of a husband. He is very kind, I think—really very good about the cottages. A well-meaning man.’
“我的意思是从丈夫的角度来看。我认为他非常友善——对小屋真的非常好。一个好心的人。

‘But you must have a scholar, and that sort of thing? Well, it lies a little in our family. I had it myself—that love of knowledge, and going into everything—a little too much—it took me too far; though that sort of thing doesn’t often run in the female-line; or it runs underground like the rivers in Greece, you know—it comes out in the sons. Clever sons, clever mothers. I went a good deal into that, at one time. However, my dear, I have always said that people should do as they like in these things, up to a certain point. I couldn’t, as your guardian, have consented to a bad match. But Casaubon stands well: his position is good. I am afraid Chettam will be hurt, though, and Mrs. Cadwallader will blame me.’
“但是你必须有一个学者，诸如此类的东西？嗯，这在我们家有一点点。我自己也有这样的习惯——对知识的热爱，对一切事物的探究——有点太多了——它让我走得太远了；尽管这种事情在女性血统中并不常见；或者它像希腊的河流一样在地下流动，你知道——它从儿子们身上流出来。聪明的儿子，聪明的母亲。我曾经一度对此进行了深入研究。然而，亲爱的，我一直说，人们在这些事情上应该随心所欲，在某种程度上。作为你的监护人，我不能同意糟糕的匹配。但卡索邦的立场很好：他的位置很好。不过，我担心切塔姆会受到伤害，卡德沃拉德夫人会责怪我。

That evening, of course, Celia knew nothing of what had happened. She attributed Dorothea’s abstracted manner, and the evidence of further crying since they had got home, to the temper she had been in about Sir James Chettam and the buildings, and was careful not to give further offence: having once said what she wanted to say, Celia had no disposition to recur to disagreeable subjects. It had been her nature when a child never to quarrel with any one— only to observe with wonder that they quarrelled with her, and looked like turkey-cocks; whereupon she was ready to play at cat’s cradle with them whenever they recovered themselves. And as to Dorothea, it had always been her way to find something wrong in her sister’s words, though Celia inwardly protested that she always said just how things were, and nothing else: she never did and never could put words together out of her own head. But the best of Dodo was, that she did not keep angry for long together. Now, though they had hardly spoken to each other all the evening, yet when Celia put by her work, intending to go to bed, a proceeding in which she was always much the earlier, Dorothea, who was seated on a low stool, unable to occupy herself except in meditation, said, with the musical intonation which in moments of deep but quiet feeling made her speech like a fine bit of recitative—
当然，那天晚上，西莉亚对发生的事情一无所知。她把多萝西娅心不在焉的态度以及他们回家后进一步哭泣的迹象归因于她对詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士和建筑物的脾气，并小心翼翼地避免进一步冒犯：曾经说过她想说的话西莉亚不愿意再讨论令人不快的话题。当她还是个孩子的时候，她的天性是从不与任何人争吵——只是惊奇地发现他们与她争吵，而且看起来像火鸡；于是，只要他们恢复过来，她就准备和他们一起在猫的摇篮里玩耍。至于多萝西娅，她总是会在姐姐的话中发现错误，尽管西莉亚内心抗议说她总是说事情就是这样，而不是别的：她从来没有这样做过，也永远不能把自己的话拼凑起来。头。但多多最好的一点是，她不会长期生气。现在，虽然他们整个晚上几乎没有说话，但当西莉亚放下手中的工作，打算上床睡觉时，她总是先走一步，多萝西娅坐在一张矮凳上，无法说话。她说，除了冥想之外，她还用音乐的语调，在深沉而安静的感觉中，她的讲话就像一段优美的宣叙调——

‘Celia, dear, come and kiss me,’ holding her arms open as she spoke.
“西莉亚，亲爱的，过来吻我，”她张开双臂说道。

Celia knelt down to get the right level and gave her little butterfly kiss, while Dorothea encircled her with gentle arms and pressed her lips gravely on each cheek in turn.
西莉亚跪下来，保持适当的高度，给了她一个蝴蝶般的小吻，而多萝西娅则用温柔的手臂环住了她，将嘴唇轮流严肃地压在了她的两侧脸颊上。

‘Don’t sit up, Dodo, you are so pale to-night: go to bed soon,’ said Celia, in a comfortable way, without any touch of pathos.
“别坐起来，多多，你今晚脸色好苍白，快去睡觉吧。”西莉亚用一种舒适的方式说道，没有一丝伤感。

‘No, dear, I am very, very happy,’ said Dorothea, fervently.
“不，亲爱的，我非常非常高兴，”多萝西娅热切地说。

‘So much the better,’ thought Celia. ‘But how strangely Dodo goes from one extreme to the other.’
“那就更好了，”西莉亚想。 “但是多多从一个极端转向另一个极端是多么奇怪啊。”

The next day, at luncheon, the butler, handing something to Mr. Brooke, said, ‘Jonas is come back, sir, and has brought this letter.’
第二天，午餐时，管家把东西递给布鲁克先生，说道：“先生，乔纳斯回来了，带来了这封信。”

Mr. Brooke read the letter, and then, nodding toward Dorothea, said, ‘Casaubon, my dear: he will be here to dinner; he didn’t wait to write more—didn’t wait, you know.’
布鲁克先生读了信，然后向多萝西娅点点头，说道：“卡索邦，亲爱的：他会来这里吃晚饭；他会来的。”他没等就写更多——没等，你知道。”

It could not seem remarkable to Celia that a dinner guest should be announced to her sister beforehand, but, her eyes following the same direction as her uncle’s, she was struck with the peculiar effect of the announcement on Dorothea. It seemed as if something like the reflection of a white sunlit wing had passed across her features, ending in one of her rare blushes. For the first time it entered into Celia’s mind that there might be something more between Mr. Casaubon and her sister than his delight in bookish talk and her delight in listening. Hitherto she had classed the admiration for this ‘ugly’ and learned acquaintance with the admiration for Monsieur Liret at Lausanne, also ugly and learned. Dorothea had never been tired of listening to old Monsieur Liret when Celia’s feet were as cold as possible, and when it had really become dreadful to see the skin of his bald head moving about. Why then should her enthusiasm not extend to Mr. Casaubon simply in the same way as to Monsieur Liret? And it seemed probable that all learned men had a sort of schoolmaster’s view of young people.
对西莉亚来说，事先向姐姐宣布有晚宴客人来，这似乎并不奇怪，但是，她的目光与她叔叔的方向相同，她对这一消息对多萝西娅产生的奇特效果感到震惊。似乎有什么东西像阳光照射下的白色翅膀的倒影掠过了她的面容，最后变成了罕见的红晕。西莉亚第一次想到，卡苏邦先生和她姐姐之间可能还存在着更多的东西，不仅仅是他喜欢书生气的谈话和她喜欢倾听。到目前为止，她已经把对这个“丑陋”和学识的钦佩归为与洛桑的利雷先生的钦佩，同样是丑陋的和学识渊博的。当西莉亚的脚冷得要命，当看到他光头的皮肤动来动去时，多萝西娅从来没有厌倦听老利雷先生的讲话。那么，为什么她的热情不能像对待利雷先生那样对卡苏邦先生产生热情呢？似乎所有有学问的人对年轻人都有一种校长的看法。

But now Celia was really startled at the suspicion which had darted into her mind. She was seldom taken by surprise in this way, her marvellous quickness in observing a certain order of signs generally preparing her to expect such outward events as she had an interest in. Not that she now imagined Mr. Casaubon to be already an accepted lover: she had only begun to feel disgust at the possibility that anything in Dorothea’s mind could tend towards such an issue. Here was something really to vex her about Dodo: it was all very well not to accept Sir James Chettam, but the idea of marrying Mr. Casaubon! Celia felt a sort of shame mingled with a sense of the ludicrous. But perhaps Dodo, if she were really bordering on such an extravagance, might be turned away from it: experience had often shown that her impressibility might be calculated on. The day was damp, and they were not going to walk out, so they both went up to their sitting-room; and there Celia observed that Dorothea, instead of settling down with her usual diligent interest to some occupation, simply leaned her elbow on an open book and looked out of the window at the great cedar silvered with the damp. She herself had taken up the making of a toy for the curate’s children, and was not going to enter on any subject too precipitately.
但现在塞莉亚真的被自己脑海中浮现出的怀疑吓了一跳。她很少以这种方式感到惊讶，她观察某种迹象顺序的惊人速度通常使她准备好期待她感兴趣的外部事件。并不是说她现在想象卡苏邦先生已经是一个公认的情人：她只是开始对多萝西娅脑子里的任何东西可能倾向于这样的问题感到厌恶。多多确实有一件事情让她烦恼：不接受詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士固然很好，但嫁给卡苏邦先生的想法却是！西莉亚感到一种羞愧与荒唐的感觉交织在一起。但也许多多，如果她真的近乎如此奢侈的话，可能会拒绝这样做：经验经常表明，她的易受影响可能是经过计算的。天很潮湿，他们不打算出去，所以他们俩就上楼到了客厅。西莉亚注意到，多萝西娅并没有像往常那样对某项工作表现出勤奋的兴趣，而是只是将肘部靠在一本打开的书上，看着窗外那棵因潮湿而银光闪闪的大雪松。她自己已经开始为牧师的孩子们制作玩具，并且不打算太仓促地进入任何主题。

Dorothea was in fact thinking that it was desirable for Celia to know of the momentous change in Mr. Casaubon’s position since he had last been in the house: it did not seem fair to leave her in ignorance of what would necessarily affect her attitude towards him; but it was impossible not to shrink from telling her. Dorothea accused herself of some meanness in this timidity: it was always odious to her to have any small fears or contrivances about her actions, but at this moment she was seeking the highest aid possible that she might not dread the corrosiveness of Celia’s pretty carnally minded prose. Her reverie was broken, and the difficulty of decision banished, by Celia’s small and rather guttural voice speaking in its usual tone, of a remark aside or a ‘by the bye.’
事实上，多萝西娅认为，西莉亚希望知道卡苏邦先生自从上次来到这所房子以来，他的立场发生了重大变化：让她不知道什么必然会影响她对他的态度，这似乎不公平。 ;但不可能不告诉她。多萝西娅指责自己在这种胆怯中有些卑鄙：对她的行为有任何小小的恐惧或诡计总是令人厌恶的，但此刻她正在寻求尽可能最高的帮助，这样她就不会害怕西莉亚相当肉欲的腐蚀。散文。她的沉思被打破了，做出决定的困难也被西莉亚用平常的语气小而带喉音的声音所驱散，她说的是一句旁白或一句“再见”。

‘Is any one else coming to dine besides Mr. Casaubon?’
“除了卡苏邦先生之外，还有其他人来吃饭吗？”

‘Not that I know of.’
'从来没听说过。'

‘I hope there is some one else. Then I shall not hear him eat his soup so.’
‘我希望还有其他人。那样我就不会听到他这样喝汤了。

‘What is there remarkable about his soup-eating?’
“他喝汤有什么了不起的？”

‘Really, Dodo, can’t you hear how he scrapes his spoon? And he always blinks before he speaks. I don’t know whether Locke blinked, but I’m sure I am sorry for those who sat opposite to him if he did.’
“真的，多多，你没听到他刮勺子的声音吗？而且他说话之前总是眨眼。我不知道洛克是否眨眼，但我确信如果他眨眼的话，我会为坐在他对面的人感到抱歉。

‘Celia,’ said Dorothea, with emphatic gravity, ‘pray don’t make any more observations of that kind.’
“西莉亚，”多萝西娅严肃地说，“请不要再做类似的观察了。”

‘Why not? They are quite true,’ returned Celia, who had her reasons for persevering, though she was beginning to be a little afraid.
'为什么不？他们说得很对。”西莉亚回答道，她有坚持下去的理由，尽管她开始有点害怕。

‘Many things are true which only the commonest minds observe.’
“许多事情都是真实的，只有最普通的人才能观察到。”

‘Then I think the commonest minds must be rather useful. I think it is a pity Mr. Casaubon’s mother had not a commoner mind: she might have taught him better.’ Celia was inwardly frightened, and ready to run away, now she had hurled this light javelin.
‘那么我想，最平常的头脑一定是很有用的。我觉得可惜的是，卡苏朋先生的母亲没有一颗平常心，她本来可以教他更好的。”西莉亚内心害怕，准备逃跑，现在她投出了这支轻标枪。

Dorothea’s feelings had gathered to an avalanche, and there could be no further preparation.
多萝西娅的感情已经达到了雪崩的地步，无法再做进一步的准备。

‘It is right to tell you, Celia, that I am engaged to marry Mr. Casaubon.’
“西莉亚，我很高兴地告诉你，我已经订婚了，要嫁给卡苏邦先生。”

Perhaps Celia had never turned so pale before. The paper man she was making would have had his leg injured, but for her habitual care of whatever she held in her hands. She laid the fragile figure down at once, and sat perfectly still for a few moments. When she spoke there was a tear gathering
或许西莉亚从来没有脸色这么苍白过。如果不是她习惯性地照顾手中的东西，她制作的纸人的腿可能会受伤。她立即​​将这个脆弱的身体放下，一动不动地坐了一会儿。她说话的时候泪流满面

‘Oh, Dodo, I hope you will be happy.’ Her sisterly tenderness could not but surmount other feelings at this moment, and her fears were the fears of affection.
“哦，多多，我希望你幸福。”此时此刻，她的姐妹般的温柔无法不超越其他的感情，而她的恐惧是对感情的恐惧。

Dorothea was still hurt and agitated.
多萝西娅仍然感到受伤和焦躁。

‘It is quite decided, then?’ said Celia, in an awed under tone. ‘And uncle knows?’
“那么，事情就这么决定了？”西莉亚带着敬畏的语气说道。 “叔叔知道吗？”

‘I have accepted Mr. Casaubon’s offer. My uncle brought me the letter that contained it; he knew about it beforehand.’
“我已经接受了卡苏邦先生的提议。我叔叔给我带来了包含这封信的信；他事先就知道了。

‘I beg your pardon, if I have said anything to hurt you, Dodo,’ said Celia, with a slight sob. She never could have thought that she should feel as she did. There was something funereal in the whole affair, and Mr. Casaubon seemed to be the officiating clergyman, about whom it would be indecent to make remarks.
“如果我说了伤害你的话，请原谅，多多，”西莉亚带着轻微的抽泣说道。她从来没想过自己会有这样的感受。整个事件有一种葬礼般的气氛，而卡苏邦先生似乎就是主持仪式的牧师，对他发表评论是不礼貌的。

‘Never mind, Kitty, do not grieve. We should never admire the same people. I often offend in something of the same way; I am apt to speak too strongly of those who don’t please me.’
“没关系，基蒂，不要悲伤。我们永远不应该崇拜同一个人。我也经常以同样的方式冒犯别人。我很容易对那些不让我高兴的人说得太过分。

In spite of this magnanimity Dorothea was still smarting: perhaps as much from Celia’s subdued astonishment as from her small criticisms. Of course all the world round Tipton would be out of sympathy with this marriage. Dorothea knew of no one who thought as she did about life and its best objects.
尽管如此宽宏大量，多萝西娅仍然感到痛苦：也许既因为西莉亚压抑的惊讶，也因为她的小批评。当然，全世界都不会同情蒂普顿的这桩婚姻。多萝西娅知道没有人像她一样思考生活及其最美好的目标。

Nevertheless before the evening was at an end she was very happy. In an hour’s tete-a-tete with Mr. Casaubon she talked to him with more freedom than she had ever felt before, even pouring out her joy at the thought of devoting herself to him, and of learning how she might best share and further all his great ends. Mr. Casaubon was touched with an unknown delight (what man would not have been?) at this childlike unrestrained ardor: he was not surprised (what lover would have been?) that he should be the object of it.
尽管如此，在晚上结束之前，她还是很高兴。在与卡苏邦先生的一个小时的面对面交谈中，她比以往任何时候都更加自由地与他交谈，甚至倾注了她想到将自己奉献给他以及学习如何最好地分享和进一步发展的喜悦。他所有的伟大目的。卡苏邦先生对这种孩子般的无拘无束的热情感到一种未知的喜悦（哪个男人不会呢？）：他对自己成为它的对象并不感到惊讶（哪个情人会感到惊讶？）。

‘My dear young lady—Miss Brooke—Dorothea!’ he said, pressing her hand between his hands, ‘this is a happiness greater than I had ever imagined to be in reserve for me. That I should ever meet with a mind and person so rich in the mingled graces which could render marriage desirable, was far indeed from my conception. You have all—nay, more than all—those qualities which I have ever regarded as the characteristic excellences of womanhood. The great charm of your sex is its capability of an ardent self-sacrificing affection, and herein we see its fitness to round and complete the existence of our own. Hitherto I have known few pleasures save of the severer kind: my satisfactions have been those of the solitary student. I have been little disposed to gather flowers that would wither in my hand, but now I shall pluck them with eagerness, to place them in your bosom.’
“我亲爱的年轻女士——布鲁克小姐——多萝西娅！”他一边说，一边将她的手放在双手之间，“这对我来说是一种比我想象中还要伟大的幸福。”我竟然会遇到一个如此富有混合恩典的人，使婚姻变得令人向往，这确实是我的想象之外的。你拥有所有——不，甚至更多——那些我一直认为是女性特有的优点的品质。性的最大魅力在于它具有热忱的自我牺牲的情感，在这里我们看到它适合充实和完善我们自己的存在。迄今为止，我所知道的快乐除了比较严重的那种之外，还很少：我的满足感是孤独的学生的满足感。我本来不太愿意收集那些在我手中会枯萎的花朵，但现在我会热切地摘下它们，把它们放在你的怀里。

No speech could have been more thoroughly honest in its intention: the frigid rhetoric at the end was as sincere as the bark of a dog, or the cawing of an amorous rook. Would it not be rash to conclude that there was no passion behind those sonnets to Delia which strike us as the thin music of a mandolin?
没有任何演讲的意图比这更彻底：最后的冷酷言辞就像狗的吠声或多情的白嘴鸦的叫声一样真诚。如果断定那些写给迪莉娅的十四行诗背后没有激情，这些十四行诗给我们的印象就像是曼陀林的单薄音乐，这不是轻率的结论吗？

Dorothea’s faith supplied all that Mr. Casaubon’s words seemed to leave unsaid: what believer sees a disturbing omission or infelicity? The text, whether of prophet or of poet, expands for whatever we can put into it, and even his bad grammar is sublime.
多萝西娅的信仰提供了卡苏邦先生的话中似乎未说出口的一切：哪个信徒会看到令人不安的遗漏或不幸福？文本，无论是先知的还是诗人的，都可以扩展到我们可以放入的任何内容，甚至他糟糕的语法也是崇高的。

‘I am very ignorant—you will quite wonder at my ignorance,’ said Dorothea. ‘I have so many thoughts that may be quite mistaken; and now I shall be able to tell them all to you, and ask you about them. But,’ she added, with rapid imagination of Mr. Casaubon’s probable feeling, ‘I will not trouble you too much; only when you are inclined to listen to me. You must often be weary with the pursuit of subjects in your own track. I shall gain enough if you will take me with you there.’
“我非常无知——你一定会对我的无知感到惊讶，”多萝西娅说。 “我有很多想法，可能都是错误的；现在我可以把它们全部告诉你，并向你询问。但是，”她补充道，快速想象着卡苏邦先生可能的感受，“我不会太麻烦你；我不会打扰你。”只有当你愿意听我说话的时候。你一定常常因为追求自己的轨道而感到厌倦。如果你带我去那里，我会收获足够的。

‘How should I be able now to persevere in any path without your companionship?’ said Mr. Casaubon, kissing her candid brow, and feeling that heaven had vouchsafed him a blessing in every way suited to his peculiar wants. He was being unconsciously wrought upon by the charms of a nature which was entirely without hidden calculations either for immediate effects or for remoter ends. It was this which made Dorothea so childlike, and, according to some judges, so stupid, with all her reputed cleverness; as, for example, in the present case of throwing herself, metaphorically speaking, at Mr. Casaubon’s feet, and kissing his unfashionable shoe-ties as if he were a Protestant Pope. She was not in the least teaching Mr. Casaubon to ask if he were good enough for her, but merely asking herself anxiously how she could be good enough for Mr. Casaubon. Before he left the next day it had been decided that the marriage should take place within six weeks. Why not? Mr. Casaubon’s house was ready. It was not a parsonage, but a considerable mansion, with much land attached to it. The parsonage was inhabited by the curate, who did all the duty except preaching the morning sermon.
“没有你的陪伴，我现在怎么能够坚持走任何一条路呢？”卡苏邦先生说道，他亲吻着她坦率的额头，感觉上天已经在各方面赐予了他适合他特殊需要的祝福。他不知不觉地被一种自然的魅力所吸引，这种自然的魅力完全没有隐藏的计算，无论是为了立即的效果还是为了遥远的目的。正是这一点使得多萝西娅如此孩子气，而且根据一些评判者的说法，她如此愚蠢，尽管她被认为很聪明。例如，在本例中，打个比方，她扑倒在卡苏邦先生的脚边，亲吻他不合时宜的鞋带，就好像他是新教教皇一样。她根本不是在教卡苏朋先生去问他是否配得上她，而只是焦急地问自己，她怎样才能配得上卡苏朋先生。第二天他离开之前，已经决定在六周内举行婚礼。为什么不？卡苏邦先生的房子已经准备好了。这不是一座牧师住宅，而是一栋相当大的宅邸，还有很多土地。牧师住宅里住着神甫，他负责除了早上讲道之外的所有职责。

CHAPTER VI
第六章

My lady’s tongue is like the meadow blades,
我夫人的舌头就像草地上的叶子，

That cut you stroking them with idle hand.
那会让你用闲着的手抚摸它们。

Nice cutting is her function: she divides
漂亮的切割是她的功能：她分裂

With spiritual edge the millet-seed,
具有精神锋芒的小米种子，

And makes intangible savings.
并节省无形成本。

As Mr. Casaubon’s carriage was passing out of the gateway, it arrested the entrance of a pony phaeton driven by a lady with a servant seated behind. It was doubtful whether the recognition had been mutual, for Mr. Casaubon was looking absently before him; but the lady was quick-eyed, and threw a nod and a ‘How do you do?’ in the nick of time. In spite of her shabby bonnet and very old Indian shawl, it was plain that the lodge-keeper regarded her as an important personage, from the low curtsy which was dropped on the entrance of the small phaeton.
当卡苏邦先生的马车驶出大门时，一辆小马车拦住了进来，这辆小马车由一位女士驾驶，后面坐着一名仆人。令人怀疑的是，这种认识是否是相互的，因为卡苏邦先生心不在焉地看着他的面前。但那位女士眼疾手快，及时点了点头，问道：“你好吗？”尽管她戴着破旧的帽子和非常旧的印度披肩，但从在小四轮车的入口处低下的屈膝礼来看，旅馆老板显然把她视为一个重要人物。

‘Well, Mrs. Fitchett, how are your fowls laying now?’ said the high-colored, dark-eyed lady, with the clearest chiselled utterance.
“好了，菲切特太太，你家的鸡现在下蛋怎么样了？”那位肤色鲜艳、黑眼睛的女士用最清晰、轮廓分明的语气说道。

‘Pretty well for laying, madam, but they’ve ta’en to eating their eggs: I’ve no peace o’ mind with ‘em at all.’
“非常适合下蛋，女士，但它们已经习惯了吃它们的蛋：我对‘它们’一点儿也不放心。”

‘Oh, the cannibals! Better sell them cheap at once. What will you sell them a couple? One can’t eat fowls of a bad character at a high price.’
‘哦，食人者们！最好立即低价出售。你会卖给他们什么？品质不好的鸡不能花高价吃。”

‘Well, madam, half-a-crown: I couldn’t let ‘em go, not under.’
“好吧，女士，半克朗：我不能让他们走，不能在下面。”

‘Half-a-crown, these times! Come now—for the Rector’s chicken-broth on a Sunday. He has consumed all ours that I can spare. You are half paid with the sermon, Mrs. Fitchett, remember that. Take a pair of tumbler-pigeons for them—little beauties. You must come and see them. You have no tumblers among your pigeons.’
‘这次是半克朗！现在就来吧——星期天喝校长的鸡汤。他已经耗尽了我们所有我能剩下的。菲切特夫人，记住这一点，你讲道的报酬是一半。给她们养一对翻飞鸽——小美女。你一定要来看看他们。你的鸽子里没有不倒翁。

‘Well, madam, Master Fitchett shall go and see ‘em after work. He’s very hot on new sorts; to oblige you.’
“好吧，女士，菲切特少爷下班后会去看他们。他非常热衷于新事物。来满足你的要求。

‘Oblige me! It will be the best bargain he ever made. A pair of church pigeons for a couple of wicked Spanish fowls that eat their own eggs! Don’t you and Fitchett boast too much, that is all!’
‘答应我吧！这将是他做过的最好的交易。一对教堂鸽子给了几只吃自己蛋的邪恶西班牙家禽！你和菲切特别吹牛太多了，就这样！”

The phaeton was driven onwards with the last words, leaving Mrs. Fitchett laughing and shaking her head slowly, with an interjectional ‘SureLY, sureLY!’—from which it might be inferred that she would have found the country-side somewhat duller if the Rector’s lady had been less free-spoken and less of a skinflint. Indeed, both the farmers and laborers in the parishes of Freshitt and Tipton would have felt a sad lack of conversation but for the stories about what Mrs. Cadwallader said and did: a lady of immeasurably high birth, descended, as it were, from unknown earls, dim as the crowd of heroic shades—who pleaded poverty, pared down prices, and cut jokes in the most companionable manner, though with a turn of tongue that let you know who she was. Such a lady gave a neighborliness to both rank and religion, and mitigated the bitterness of uncommuted tithe. A much more exemplary character with an infusion of sour dignity would not have furthered their comprehension of the Thirty-nine Articles, and would have been less socially uniting.
说着最后一句话，马车继续前行，留下菲切特夫人笑着慢慢摇头，用感叹词“当然，当然！”——从中可以推断，如果教区长的夫人不那么直言不讳，也不那么吝啬。事实上，弗雷希特和蒂普顿教区的农民和工人如果没有关于卡德瓦拉德夫人所说和所做的故事，都会感到悲伤：一位出身高贵的女士，可以说是来自未知的后裔。伯爵们，像一群英雄般的阴影一样黯淡——他们以最友好的方式借口贫困，降低价格，讲笑话，尽管语气一转让你知道她是谁。这样的一位女士对等级和宗教都表现出友善，并减轻了未减免什一税的痛苦。一个更加模范的人物，同时又注入了酸涩的尊严，不会进一步加深他们对《三十九条》的理解，也不会在社会上团结起来。

Mr. Brooke, seeing Mrs. Cadwallader’s merits from a different point of view, winced a little when her name was announced in the library, where he was sitting alone.
布鲁克先生从不同的角度看到了卡德瓦拉德夫人的优点，当他独自坐在图书馆里宣布她的名字时，他有点畏缩了。

‘I see you have had our Lowick Cicero here,’ she said, seating herself comfortably, throwing back her wraps, and showing a thin but well-built figure. ‘I suspect you and he are brewing some bad polities, else you would not be seeing so much of the lively man. I shall inform against you: remember you are both suspicious characters since you took Peel’s side about the Catholic Bill. I shall tell everybody that you are going to put up for Middlemarch on the Whig side when old Pinkerton resigns, and that Casaubon is going to help you in an underhand manner: going to bribe the voters with pamphlets, and throw open the public-houses to distribute them. Come, confess!’
“我看到你们这里有我们的洛威克·西塞罗，”她说，舒适地坐下来，掀开围巾，展现出瘦弱但体格健壮的身材。 “我怀疑你和他正在酝酿一些糟糕的政治，否则你就不会看到这么多这个活泼的人了。”我要告发你们：记住你们都是可疑人物，因为你们在天主教法案上站在皮尔一边。我要告诉大家，当老平克顿辞职时，你们将站在辉格党一边支持米德尔马奇，而卡索邦将用阴暗的方式帮助你们：用小册子贿赂选民，并打开酒吧来分发它们。来吧，坦白吧！”

‘Nothing of the sort,’ said Mr. Brooke, smiling and rubbing his eye-glasses, but really blushing a little at the impeachment. ‘Casaubon and I don’t talk politics much. He doesn’t care much about the philanthropic side of things; punishments, and that kind of thing. He only cares about Church questions. That is not my line of action, you know.’
“没有那样的事，”布鲁克先生一边微笑一边揉着眼镜说道，但他真的因为弹劾而脸红了一点。 “卡索邦和我不怎么谈论政治。他不太关心慈善方面的事情；他不太关心慈善方面的事情。惩罚之类的。他只关心教会的问题。你知道，那不是我的行动方针。

‘Ra-a-ther too much, my friend. I have heard of your doings. Who was it that sold his bit of land to the Papists at Middlemarch? I believe you bought it on purpose. You are a perfect Guy Faux. See if you are not burnt in effigy this 5th of November coming. Humphrey would not come to quarrel with you about it, so I am come.’
“实在是太多了，我的朋友。我听说过你的所作所为。是谁把他的那块土地卖给了米德尔马契的天主教徒？我相信你是故意买的。你是一个完美的假家伙。看看 11 月 5 日到来时你的肖像是否会被烧死。汉弗莱不会来和你争论这件事，所以我来了。

‘Very good. I was prepared to be persecuted for not persecuting—not persecuting, you know.’
'非常好。我已经准备好因为不迫害而受到迫害——不迫害，你知道的。

‘There you go! That is a piece of clap-trap you have got ready for the hustings. Now, DO NOT let them lure you to the hustings, my dear Mr. Brooke. A man always makes a fool of himself, speechifying: there’s no excuse but being on the right side, so that you can ask a blessing on your humming and hawing. You will lose yourself, I forewarn you. You will make a Saturday pie of all parties’ opinions, and be pelted by everybody.’
‘给你吧！这是你为竞选准备的一个拍手陷阱。现在，不要让他们引诱你去竞选，我亲爱的布鲁克先生。一个人总是出洋相，大言不惭：没有任何借口，只能站在正确的一边，这样你就可以在哼哼哼中祈求祝福。你会迷失自己的，我预先警告你。你将在周六制作一份包含各方意见的馅饼，并受到每个人的猛烈抨击。

‘That is what I expect, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, not wishing to betray how little he enjoyed this prophetic sketch—‘what I expect as an independent man. As to the Whigs, a man who goes with the thinkers is not likely to be hooked on by any party. He may go with them up to a certain point—up to a certain point, you know. But that is what you ladies never understand.’
“你知道，这就是我所期望的，”布鲁克先生说道，他不想暴露他是多么不喜欢这个预言性的素描——“作为一个独立的人，我所期望的。”至于辉格党，一个跟随思想家的人不太可能被任何政党所迷惑。他可能会和他们一起走到某一点——直到某一点，你知道。但这就是你们女士们永远无法理解的。”

‘Where your certain point is? No. I should like to be told how a man can have any certain point when he belongs to no party—leading a roving life, and never letting his friends know his address. ‘Nobody knows where Brooke will be—there’s no counting on Brooke’—that is what people say of you, to be quite frank. Now, do turn respectable. How will you like going to Sessions with everybody looking shy on you, and you with a bad conscience and an empty pocket?’
‘你的确定点在哪里？不，我希望有人告诉我，当一个人不属于任何党派时，他如何能够有任何特定的观点——过着流浪的生活，从不让他的朋友知道他的地址。 “没有人知道布鲁克会在哪里——没有人指望布鲁克”——坦率地说，这就是人们对你的评价。现在，请变得受人尊敬。你会喜欢去参加会议，每个人都对你表现得很害羞，而你却良心不安，口袋空空吗？

‘I don’t pretend to argue with a lady on politics,’ said Mr. Brooke, with an air of smiling indifference, but feeling rather unpleasantly conscious that this attack of Mrs. Cadwallader’s had opened the defensive campaign to which certain rash steps had exposed him. ‘Your sex are not thinkers, you know—varium et mutabile semper—that kind of thing. You don’t know Virgil. I knew’—Mr. Brooke reflected in time that he had not had the personal acquaintance of the Augustan poet—‘I was going to say, poor Stoddart, you know. That was what HE said. You ladies are always against an independent attitude—a man’s caring for nothing but truth, and that sort of thing. And there is no part of the county where opinion is narrower than it is here—I don’t mean to throw stones, you know, but somebody is wanted to take the independent line; and if I don’t take it, who will?’
“我不会假装在政治问题上与一位女士争论，”布鲁克先生说道，脸上带着冷漠的微笑，但他感到相当不愉快地意识到，卡德瓦拉德夫人的这次攻击开启了防御运动，而某些鲁莽的步骤已经导致了防御运动的开始。暴露了他。 “你们的性别不是思想家，你知道——varium et mutabile semper——之类的事情。你不了解维吉尔。我知道’——先生。布鲁克及时反思，他并没有认识这位奥古斯都诗人——“我想说，可怜的斯托达特，你知道。”他就是这么说的。你们女士们总是反对独立的态度——男人只关心真理之类的事情。在这个县里，没有哪个地方的意见比这里更狭隘了——你知道，我并不是想扔石头，但有人想要走独立路线；如果我不接受，谁会接受？

‘Who? Why, any upstart who has got neither blood nor position. People of standing should consume their independent nonsense at home, not hawk it about. And you! who are going to marry your niece, as good as your daughter, to one of our best men. Sir James would be cruelly annoyed: it will be too hard on him if you turn round now and make yourself a Whig sign-board.’
'WHO？哎呀，一个既没有血统又没有地位的暴发户。有地位的人应该在家里消化自己独立的胡言乱语，而不是到处兜售。你呢！他们将把你的侄女和你的女儿一样嫁给我们最好的男人之一。詹姆斯爵士会非常生气：如果你现在转身让自己成为辉格党的招牌，那对他来说太难了。

Mr. Brooke again winced inwardly, for Dorothea’s engagement had no sooner been decided, than he had thought of Mrs. Cadwallader’s prospective taunts. It might have been easy for ignorant observers to say, ‘Quarrel with Mrs. Cadwallader;’ but where is a country gentleman to go who quarrels with his oldest neighbors? Who could taste the fine flavor in the name of Brooke if it were delivered casually, like wine without a seal? Certainly a man can only be cosmopolitan up to a certain point.
布鲁克先生再次在心里皱起眉头，因为多萝西娅订婚的决定刚定下来，他就想到了卡德瓦拉德夫人可能的嘲讽。对于无知的观察者来说，可能很容易说：“与卡德瓦拉德夫人吵架了”；但是，一个与最年长的邻居吵架的乡村绅士该去哪里呢？如果是随手送来的，就像没有封印的酒一样，谁能品尝到布鲁克之名的美味呢？当然，一个人只有在一定程度上才能成为世界主义者。

‘I hope Chettam and I shall always be good friends; but I am sorry to say there is no prospect of his marrying my niece,’ said Mr. Brooke, much relieved to see through the window that Celia was coming in.
“我希望切塔姆和我永远是好朋友； “但我很遗憾地说，他不可能与我的侄女结婚。”布鲁克先生说道，看到窗外西莉亚进来，他松了口气。

‘Why not?’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, with a sharp note of surprise. ‘It is hardly a fortnight since you and I were talking about it.’
“为什么不呢？”卡德沃拉德夫人说，语气中带着明显的惊讶。 “距离你和我谈论这件事还不到两周时间。”

‘My niece has chosen another suitor—has chosen him, you know. I have had nothing to do with it. I should have preferred Chettam; and I should have said Chettam was the man any girl would have chosen. But there is no accounting for these things. Your sex is capricious, you know.’
“我的侄女选择了另一个追求者——选择了他，你知道的。我与此无关。我应该更喜欢切塔姆；我应该说切塔姆是任何女孩都会选择的男人。但这些事情都没有解释。你知道，你的性别反复无常。

‘Why, whom do you mean to say that you are going to let her marry?’ Mrs. Cadwallader’s mind was rapidly surveying the possibilities of choice for Dorothea.
“为什么，你说你要让她结婚的意思是谁？”卡德瓦莱德夫人的脑子里飞快地审视着多萝西娅的选择可能性。

But here Celia entered, blooming from a walk in the garden, and the greeting with her delivered Mr. Brooke from the necessity of answering immediately. He got up hastily, and saying, ‘By the way, I must speak to Wright about the horses,’ shuffled quickly out of the room.
但西莉亚进来了，她在花园里散步，心情焕然一新，与她的问候使布鲁克先生不必立即回答。他急忙站起来，说道：“顺便说一句，我必须和赖特谈谈马匹的事情。”然后快步走出了房间。

‘My dear child, what is this?—this about your sister’s engagement?’ said Mrs. Cadwallader.
“我亲爱的孩子，这是什么？——关于你姐姐订婚的事？”卡德沃拉德夫人说。

‘She is engaged to marry Mr. Casaubon,’ said Celia, resorting, as usual, to the simplest statement of fact, and enjoying this opportunity of speaking to the Rector’s wife alone.
“她已经订婚了，要嫁给卡苏邦先生，”西莉亚说，像往常一样，用最简单的事实陈述，并享受这个单独与教区长妻子交谈的机会。

‘This is frightful. How long has it been going on?’
‘这太可怕了。已经持续多久了？

‘I only knew of it yesterday. They are to be married in six weeks.’
“我昨天才知道这件事。他们将在六周内结婚。

‘Well, my dear, I wish you joy of your brother-in-law.’
“好吧，亲爱的，我祝你姐夫快乐。”

‘I am so sorry for Dorothea.’
“我为多萝西娅感到非常抱歉。”

‘Sorry! It is her doing, I suppose.’
'对不起！我想这是她做的。

‘Yes; she says Mr. Casaubon has a great soul.’
'是的;她说卡苏邦先生有一个伟大的灵魂。

‘With all my heart.’
'一心一意。'

‘Oh, Mrs. Cadwallader, I don’t think it can be nice to marry a man with a great soul.’
“哦，卡德沃拉德夫人，我不认为嫁给一个拥有伟大灵魂的男人是件好事。”

‘Well, my dear, take warning. You know the look of one now; when the next comes and wants to marry you, don’t you accept him.’
‘好吧，亲爱的，请注意。你现在知道一个人的样子了；当下一个来的时候想要嫁给你时，你不接受他吗？

‘I’m sure I never should.’
“我确信我永远不应该这样做。”

‘No; one such in a family is enough. So your sister never cared about Sir James Chettam? What would you have said to HIM for a brother-in-law?’
'不;一个家庭中有一个这样的人就足够了。所以你姐姐从来不关心詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士？如果你是妹夫，你会对他说什么？

‘I should have liked that very much. I am sure he would have been a good husband. Only,’ Celia added, with a slight blush (she sometimes seemed to blush as she breathed), ‘I don’t think he would have suited Dorothea.’
‘我应该非常喜欢那个。我确信他会是一个好丈夫。只是，”西莉亚略带脸红地补充道（她有时呼吸时似乎会脸红），“我认为他不适合多萝西娅。”

‘Not high-flown enough?’
“还不够浮夸吗？”

‘Dodo is very strict. She thinks so much about everything, and is so particular about what one says. Sir James never seemed to please her.’
‘多多非常严格。她凡事想得太多，说的话又那么讲究。詹姆斯爵士似乎从来都不让她高兴。

‘She must have encouraged him, I am sure. That is not very creditable.’
“我确信她一定鼓励了他。这不太可信。

‘Please don’t be angry with Dodo; she does not see things. She thought so much about the cottages, and she was rude to Sir James sometimes; but he is so kind, he never noticed it.’
“请不要对多多生气；她看不见东西。她对小屋想得太多，有时对詹姆斯爵士很粗鲁。但他是如此善良，他从来没有注意到这一点。

‘Well,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, putting on her shawl, and rising, as if in haste, ‘I must go straight to Sir James and break this to him. He will have brought his mother back by this time, and I must call. Your uncle will never tell him. We are all disappointed, my dear. Young people should think of their families in marrying. I set a bad example—married a poor clergyman, and made myself a pitiable object among the De Bracys—obliged to get my coals by stratagem, and pray to heaven for my salad oil. However, Casaubon has money enough; I must do him that justice. As to his blood, I suppose the family quarterings are three cuttle-fish sable, and a commentator rampant. By the bye, before I go, my dear, I must speak to your Mrs. Carter about pastry. I want to send my young cook to learn of her. Poor people with four children, like us, you know, can’t afford to keep a good cook. I have no doubt Mrs. Carter will oblige me. Sir James’s cook is a perfect dragon.’
“好吧，”卡德瓦拉德夫人说着，披上围巾，站起身来，似乎很匆忙，“我必须直接去找詹姆斯爵士，把这件事告诉他。”这个时候他应该已经把他妈妈带回来了，我必须打电话。你叔叔永远不会告诉他。我们都很失望，亲爱的。年轻人结婚就应该为家人着想。我树立了一个坏榜样——嫁给了一个贫穷的牧师，让自己成为德布拉西家族中的一个可怜人——不得不用计谋得到我的煤炭，并向上天祈祷我的色拉油。不过，卡索邦有足够的钱；我必须公正地对待他。至于他的血统，我想家里的住处是三只墨鱼貂，还有一个评论员横行。再见，在我走之前，亲爱的，我必须和你的卡特夫人谈谈糕点的事。我想派我的小厨师去学学她。你知道，像我们这样有四个孩子的穷人请不起一个好厨师。我毫不怀疑卡特夫人会答应我的。詹姆斯爵士的厨师是一条完美的龙。”

In less than an hour, Mrs. Cadwallader had circumvented Mrs. Carter and driven to Freshitt Hall, which was not far from her own parsonage, her husband being resident in Freshitt and keeping a curate in Tipton.
不到一个小时，卡德瓦拉德夫人绕过卡特夫人，开车前往弗雷希特庄园，那里离她自己的牧师住宅不远，她的丈夫住在弗雷希特，并在蒂普顿担任牧师。

Sir James Chettam had returned from the short journey which had kept him absent for a couple of days, and had changed his dress, intending to ride over to Tipton Grange. His horse was standing at the door when Mrs. Cadwallader drove up, and he immediately appeared there himself, whip in hand. Lady Chettam had not yet returned, but Mrs. Cadwallader’s errand could not be despatched in the presence of grooms, so she asked to be taken into the conservatory close by, to look at the new plants; and on coming to a contemplative stand, she said—
詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士结束了几天的短途旅行回来了，他换了衣服，打算骑马去蒂普顿农庄。当卡德沃拉德夫人开车过来时，他的马正停在门口，他本人立刻出现在那里，手里拿着鞭子。切塔姆夫人还没有回来，但卡德瓦拉德夫人的差事无法在新郎在场的情况下完成，所以她要求被带到附近的温室，看看新植物。当她沉思起来时，她说道——

‘I have a great shock for you; I hope you are not so far gone in love as you pretended to be.’
“我对你感到非常震惊；我希望你没有像你假装的那样陷入爱情。

It was of no use protesting, against Mrs. Cadwallader’s way of putting things. But Sir James’s countenance changed a little. He felt a vague alarm.
抗议卡德沃拉德夫人的表达方式是没有用的。但詹姆斯爵士的脸色却是微微一变。他隐隐约约感到警觉。

‘I do believe Brooke is going to expose himself after all. I accused him of meaning to stand for Middlemarch on the Liberal side, and he looked silly and never denied it—talked about the independent line, and the usual nonsense.’
“我确实相信布鲁克最终会暴露自己。我指责他有意站在自由党一边代表米德尔马奇，他看起来很傻，但从未否认这一点——谈论独立路线，以及通常的废话。

‘Is that all?’ said Sir James, much relieved.
“就这些了吗？”詹姆斯爵士松了口气说道。

‘Why,’ rejoined Mrs. Cadwallader, with a sharper note, ‘you don’t mean to say that you would like him to turn public man in that way—making a sort of political Cheap Jack of himself?’
“为什么，”卡德沃拉德夫人用更尖锐的语气反问道，“你的意思不是说你希望他以这种方式成为公众人物——让自己成为一个政治上的廉价杰克吗？”

‘He might be dissuaded, I should think. He would not like the expense.’
“我想他可能会被劝阻。”他不喜欢这笔费用。

‘That is what I told him. He is vulnerable to reason there—always a few grains of common-sense in an ounce of miserliness. Miserliness is a capital quality to run in families; it’s the safe side for madness to dip on. And there must be a little crack in the Brooke family, else we should not see what we are to see.’
‘这就是我告诉他的。他很容易受到理性的影响——在一丝吝啬中总是有一些常识。吝啬是家族经营的资本品质。对于疯狂来说，这是安全的一面。布鲁克家族一定有一点裂痕，否则我们就看不到我们所看到的了。

‘What? Brooke standing for Middlemarch?’
'什么？布鲁克代表米德尔马契吗？

‘Worse than that. I really feel a little responsible. I always told you Miss Brooke would be such a fine match. I knew there was a great deal of nonsense in her—a flighty sort of Methodistical stuff. But these things wear out of girls. However, I am taken by surprise for once.’
‘比那更糟糕。我确实觉得有点责任。我一直告诉过你布鲁克小姐会是很般配的。我知道她身上有很多废话——一种轻浮的卫理公会的东西。但这些东西会让女孩们疲惫不堪。然而，这一次我感到惊讶。

‘What do you mean, Mrs. Cadwallader?’ said Sir James. His fear lest Miss Brooke should have run away to join the Moravian Brethren, or some preposterous sect unknown to good society, was a little allayed by the knowledge that Mrs. Cadwallader always made the worst of things. ‘What has happened to Miss Brooke? Pray speak out.’
“你这是什么意思，卡德沃拉德夫人？”詹姆斯爵士问道。他担心布鲁克小姐会跑去加入摩拉维亚兄弟会，或者某个不为上流社会所知的荒谬教派，但由于知道卡德瓦拉德夫人总是把事情做最坏的打算，他的担心有所缓解。 “布鲁克小姐怎么了？请说出来。

‘Very well. She is engaged to be married.’ Mrs. Cadwallader paused a few moments, observing the deeply hurt expression in her friend’s face, which he was trying to conceal by a nervous smile, while he whipped his boot; but she soon added, ‘Engaged to Casaubon.’
'很好。她已经订婚了。”卡德沃拉德夫人停顿了一会儿，观察着她朋友脸上深深受伤的表情，他一边踢着靴子，一边试图用紧张的微笑来掩饰这种表情。但她很快又补充道：“已与卡索邦订婚。”

Sir James let his whip fall and stooped to pick it up. Perhaps his face had never before gathered so much concentrated disgust as when he turned to Mrs. Cadwallader and repeated, ‘Casaubon?’
詹姆斯爵士的鞭子掉了下来，弯腰捡起来。也许当他转向卡德沃拉德夫人重复道“卡索邦？”时，他的脸上从来没有出现过如此集中的厌恶。

‘Even so. You know my errand now.’
'即使是这样。你现在知道我的任务了。

‘Good God! It is horrible! He is no better than a mummy!’ (The point of view has to be allowed for, as that of a blooming and disappointed rival.)
‘天啊！太可怕了！他并不比木乃伊好多少！”（这种观点必须被允许，就像一个盛开而失望的对手的观点一样。）

‘She says, he is a great soul.—A great bladder for dried peas to rattle in!’ said Mrs. Cadwallader.
“她说，他是一个伟大的灵魂。——一个伟大的膀胱，可以装干豌豆嘎嘎作响！”卡德沃拉德夫人说。

‘What business has an old bachelor like that to marry?’ said Sir James. ‘He has one foot in the grave.’
“什么生意让这样的老光棍结婚呢？”詹姆斯爵士说道。 “他的一只脚已经踏入坟墓了。”

‘He means to draw it out again, I suppose.’
“我想他是想再把它拔出来。”

‘Brooke ought not to allow it: he should insist on its being put off till she is of age. She would think better of it then. What is a guardian for?’
“布鲁克不应该允许这样做：他应该坚持推迟到她成年为止。到时候她会想得更好。监护人有什么用？

‘As if you could ever squeeze a resolution out of Brooke!’
“好像你能从布鲁克身上挤出一个决心！”

‘Cadwallader might talk to him.’
“卡德沃拉德可能会和他谈谈。”

‘Not he! Humphrey finds everybody charming I never can get him to abuse Casaubon. He will even speak well of the bishop, though I tell him it is unnatural in a beneficed clergyman; what can one do with a husband who attends so little to the decencies? I hide it as well as I can by abusing everybody myself. Come, come, cheer up! you are well rid of Miss Brooke, a girl who would have been requiring you to see the stars by daylight. Between ourselves, little Celia is worth two of her, and likely after all to be the better match. For this marriage to Casaubon is as good as going to a nunnery.’
‘不是他！汉弗莱发现每个人都很迷人，我永远无法让他虐待卡苏邦。他甚至会称赞主教，尽管我告诉他，这对于一个受封的牧师来说是不自然的。面对这样一个不讲礼仪的丈夫，我们能做些什么呢？我通过自己辱骂每个人来尽可能地隐藏它。来来来，加油！你已经摆脱了布鲁克小姐，一个会要求你在白天看星星的女孩。就我们个人而言，小西莉亚值得两个人，而且毕竟可能是更好的搭配。因为与卡苏朋的婚姻就像去尼姑庵一样好。

‘Oh, on my own account—it is for Miss Brooke’s sake I think her friends should try to use their influence.’
“哦，就我个人而言——为了布鲁克小姐，我认为她的朋友们应该尝试利用他们的影响力。”

‘Well, Humphrey doesn’t know yet. But when I tell him, you may depend on it he will say, ‘Why not? Casaubon is a good fellow—and young—young enough.’ These charitable people never know vinegar from wine till they have swallowed it and got the colic. However, if I were a man I should prefer Celia, especially when Dorothea was gone. The truth is, you have been courting one and have won the other. I can see that she admires you almost as much as a man expects to be admired. If it were any one but me who said so, you might think it exaggeration. Good-by!’
“嗯，汉弗莱还不知道。”但当我告诉他时，你可能相信他会说，‘为什么不呢？卡苏邦是个好人，而且很年轻，足够年轻。”这些仁慈的人在吞下酒并得绞痛之前，永远不会知道醋和酒。然而，如果我是一个男人，我应该更喜欢西莉亚，尤其是当多萝西娅不在的时候。事实是，你一直在追求其中一个，并赢得了另一个。我看得出她对你的钦佩几乎就像一个男人期望被钦佩一样。如果不是我以外的任何人这么说，你可能会认为这是夸张。有效期！'

Sir James handed Mrs. Cadwallader to the phaeton, and then jumped on his horse. He was not going to renounce his ride because of his friend’s unpleasant news—only to ride the faster in some other direction than that of Tipton Grange.
詹姆斯爵士将卡德沃拉德夫人交给马车，然后跳上马。他不会因为朋友的不愉快消息而放弃骑行——只是为了在蒂普顿农庄以外的其他方向上骑得更快。

Now, why on earth should Mrs. Cadwallader have been at all busy about Miss Brooke’s marriage; and why, when one match that she liked to think she had a hand in was frustrated, should she have straightway contrived the preliminaries of another? Was there any ingenious plot, any hide-and-seek course of action, which might be detected by a careful telescopic watch? Not at all: a telescope might have swept the parishes of Tipton and Freshitt, the whole area visited by Mrs. Cadwallader in her phaeton, without witnessing any interview that could excite suspicion, or any scene from which she did not return with the same unperturbed keenness of eye and the same high natural color. In fact, if that convenient vehicle had existed in the days of the Seven Sages, one of them would doubtless have remarked, that you can know little of women by following them about in their pony-phaetons. Even with a microscope directed on a water-drop we find ourselves making interpretations which turn out to be rather coarse; for whereas under a weak lens you may seem to see a creature exhibiting an active voracity into which other smaller creatures actively play as if they were so many animated tax-pennies, a stronger lens reveals to you certain tiniest hairlets which make vortices for these victims while the swallower waits passively at his receipt of custom. In this way, metaphorically speaking, a strong lens applied to Mrs. Cadwallader’s match-making will show a play of minute causes producing what may be called thought and speech vortices to bring her the sort of food she needed. Her life was rurally simple, quite free from secrets either foul, dangerous, or otherwise important, and not consciously affected by the great affairs of the world. All the more did the affairs of the great world interest her, when communicated in the letters of high-born relations: the way in which fascinating younger sons had gone to the dogs by marrying their mistresses; the fine old-blooded idiocy of young Lord Tapir, and the furious gouty humors of old Lord Megatherium; the exact crossing of genealogies which had brought a coronet into a new branch and widened the relations of scandal,—these were topics of which she retained details with the utmost accuracy, and reproduced them in an excellent pickle of epigrams, which she herself enjoyed the more because she believed as unquestionably in birth and no-birth as she did in game and vermin. She would never have disowned any one on the ground of poverty: a De Bracy reduced to take his dinner in a basin would have seemed to her an example of pathos worth exaggerating, and I fear his aristocratic vices would not have horrified her. But her feeling towards the vulgar rich was a sort of religious hatred: they had probably made all their money out of high retail prices, and Mrs. Cadwallader detested high prices for everything that was not paid in kind at the Rectory: such people were no part of God’s design in making the world; and their accent was an affliction to the ears. A town where such monsters abounded was hardly more than a sort of low comedy, which could not be taken account of in a well-bred scheme of the universe. Let any lady who is inclined to be hard on Mrs. Cadwallader inquire into the comprehensiveness of her own beautiful views, and be quite sure that they afford accommodation for all the lives which have the honor to coexist with hers.
现在，卡德沃拉德夫人到底为什么要为布鲁克小姐的婚姻而忙碌呢？为什么当一场她认为自己参与的比赛失败时，她应该立即策划另一场预赛呢？是否存在任何巧妙的情节，任何捉迷藏的行动方案，可以通过仔细的望远镜观察到？完全不是：望远镜可能扫过蒂普顿和弗雷希特教区，以及卡德瓦拉德夫人乘坐她的敞篷车访问过的整个地区，而没有看到任何可能引起怀疑的采访，也没有看到任何她没有以同样泰然自若的态度返回的场景。眼睛的敏锐度和同样高的自然色彩。事实上，如果这种方便的交通工具存在于七贤时代，他们中的一位无疑会说，你不能通过跟随她们的小马车来了解女人。即使使用显微镜对准水滴，我们也会发现自己做出的解释结果相当粗糙。因为在弱镜头下，你可能会看到一种生物表现出积极的贪婪，而其他较小的生物则积极地参与其中，就好像它们是许多动画的税便士一样，而在更强的镜头下，你会看到某些最微小的毛发，这些毛发为这些受害者制造了漩涡而吞咽者则被动地等待收到海关通知。这样，打个比方来说，在卡德沃拉德夫人的婚介中应用一个强有力的镜头，就会显示出微小原因的作用，产生所谓的思想和言语漩涡，为她带来她所需要的食物。她的生活过着乡村般的简单，没有肮脏、危险或其他重要的秘密，也没有自觉地受到世界大事的影响。 当出身名门的亲戚们在书信中交流时，她对这个伟大世界的事务更加感兴趣：迷人的小儿子们因娶了情妇而变得堕落的方式；年轻的貘领主的精明而老血统的白痴，以及年迈的大地懒领主的狂暴的痛风性幽默；家谱的精确交叉将皇冠带入了一个新的分支，并扩大了丑闻的关系，这些都是她极其准确地保留细节的话题，并以精彩的警句来再现它们，她自己也很喜欢这些话题。更多的是因为她毫无疑问地相信出生和无出生，就像她相信游戏和害虫一样。她绝不会因为贫穷而与任何人断绝关系：在她看来，德布雷西沦为在盆里吃饭的人就是一个值得夸大的悲情例子，我担心他的贵族恶习不会让她感到恐惧。但她对庸俗富人的感觉是一种宗教仇恨：他们可能是从高零售价格中赚到所有钱的，卡德沃拉德夫人厌恶教区长官邸里所有非实物支付的高价商品：这样的人是不值得的。上帝创造世界的设计的一部分；他们的口音对耳朵来说是一种折磨。一个充斥着这种怪物的城镇只不过是一种低级喜剧，这在一个良好的宇宙计划中是无法考虑的。让任何对卡德瓦拉德夫人严厉的女士调查一下她自己美丽景色的全面性，并确信它们为所有有幸与她共存的生命提供了住宿。

With such a mind, active as phosphorus, biting everything that came near into the form that suited it, how could Mrs. Cadwallader feel that the Miss Brookes and their matrimonial prospects were alien to her? especially as it had been the habit of years for her to scold Mr. Brooke with the friendliest frankness, and let him know in confidence that she thought him a poor creature. From the first arrival of the young ladies in Tipton she had prearranged Dorothea’s marriage with Sir James, and if it had taken place would have been quite sure that it was her doing: that it should not take place after she had preconceived it, caused her an irritation which every thinker will sympathize with. She was the diplomatist of Tipton and Freshitt, and for anything to happen in spite of her was an offensive irregularity. As to freaks like this of Miss Brooke’s, Mrs. Cadwallader had no patience with them, and now saw that her opinion of this girl had been infected with some of her husband’s weak charitableness: those Methodistical whims, that air of being more religious than the rector and curate together, came from a deeper and more constitutional disease than she had been willing to believe.
卡德沃拉德太太的头脑像磷一样活跃，把一切接近的东西都咬成适合它的形状，她怎么会觉得布鲁克斯小姐和她们的婚姻前景对她来说是陌生的呢？尤其是她多年来的习惯就是以最友好、坦率的态度斥责布鲁克先生，并私下让他知道她认为他是个可怜的人。从年轻女士们第一次到达蒂普顿起，她就预先安排了多萝西娅与詹姆斯爵士的婚姻，如果这件事真的发生了，那么可以肯定这是她做的：在她预先设想之后，这件事不应该发生，导致她每个思想家都会同情这种刺激。她是蒂普顿和弗雷希特的外交官，不管她如何，发生任何事情都是一种冒犯性的违规行为。至于布鲁克小姐这样的怪胎，卡德瓦拉德太太对她们没有耐心，现在发现她对这个女孩的看法已经受到了她丈夫的一些薄弱的仁慈的感染：那些卫理公会的突发奇想，那种比宗教更虔诚的神情。校长和牧师一起，都患有比她愿意相信的更严重、更严重的体质疾病。

‘However,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, first to herself and afterwards to her husband, ‘I throw her over: there was a chance, if she had married Sir James, of her becoming a sane, sensible woman. He would never have contradicted her, and when a woman is not contradicted, she has no motive for obstinacy in her absurdities. But now I wish her joy of her hair shirt.’
“然而，”卡德瓦拉德夫人先是对自己说，后来又对丈夫说，“我把她扔了：如果她嫁给了詹姆斯爵士，她就有机会成为一个理智、明智的女人。”他绝不会反驳她，而当一个女人不被反驳时，她就没有理由固执于她的荒唐事。但现在我祝她对她的毛衣感到满意。”

It followed that Mrs. Cadwallader must decide on another match for Sir James, and having made up her mind that it was to be the younger Miss Brooke, there could not have been a more skilful move towards the success of her plan than her hint to the baronet that he had made an impression on Celia’s heart. For he was not one of those gentlemen who languish after the unattainable Sappho’s apple that laughs from the topmost bough—the charms which
接下来，卡德瓦拉德夫人必须决定为詹姆斯爵士再选一场比赛，她决定选年轻的布鲁克小姐，没有比她暗示要成功的更巧妙的举动了。男爵说他给西莉亚留下了深刻的印象。因为他不是那些苦苦追求高不可攀的萨福苹果的绅士之一，萨福的苹果从最高的树枝上发出笑声，而萨福的魅力在于它的魅力。

‘Smile like the knot of cowslips on the cliff,
“微笑如悬崖上的黄花九轮草结，

Not to be come at by the willing hand.’
不要被愿意的手攻击。

He had no sonnets to write, and it could not strike him agreeably that he was not an object of preference to the woman whom he had preferred. Already the knowledge that Dorothea had chosen Mr. Casaubon had bruised his attachment and relaxed its hold. Although Sir James was a sportsman, he had some other feelings towards women than towards grouse and foxes, and did not regard his future wife in the light of prey, valuable chiefly for the excitements of the chase. Neither was he so well acquainted with the habits of primitive races as to feel that an ideal combat for her, tomahawk in hand, so to speak, was necessary to the historical continuity of the marriage-tie. On the contrary, having the amiable vanity which knits us to those who are fond of us, and disinclines us to those who are indifferent, and also a good grateful nature, the mere idea that a woman had a kindness towards him spun little threads of tenderness from out his heart towards hers.
他没有十四行诗可写，而且他不喜欢他所喜欢的女人的偏爱对象，这让他感到不舒服。当知道多萝西娅选择了卡苏邦先生时，他的依恋已经受到了伤害，并且放松了。尽管詹姆斯爵士是一名运动员，但他对女人的感情比对松鸡和狐狸的感情还要多，而且他并没有从猎物的角度来看待他未来的妻子，而猎物的价值主要在于追逐的兴奋感。他也不太熟悉原始种族的习惯，以至于认为她手持战斧进行一场理想的战斗，可以说，对于婚姻关系的历史延续是必要的。相反，我们怀有和蔼可亲的虚荣心，这种虚荣心使我们与那些喜欢我们的人联系在一起，而使我们不愿与那些冷漠的人交往，而且还具有良好的感恩天性，只要想到一个女人对他有善意，就会纺出细丝。温柔从他的心里流向她。

Thus it happened, that after Sir James had ridden rather fast for half an hour in a direction away from Tipton Grange, he slackened his pace, and at last turned into a road which would lead him back by a shorter cut. Various feelings wrought in him the determination after all to go to the Grange to-day as if nothing new had happened. He could not help rejoicing that he had never made the offer and been rejected; mere friendly politeness required that he should call to see Dorothea about the cottages, and now happily Mrs. Cadwallader had prepared him to offer his congratulations, if necessary, without showing too much awkwardness. He really did not like it: giving up Dorothea was very painful to him; but there was something in the resolve to make this visit forthwith and conquer all show of feeling, which was a sort of file-biting and counter-irritant. And without his distinctly recognizing the impulse, there certainly was present in him the sense that Celia would be there, and that he should pay her more attention than he had done before.
事情就这样发生了，詹姆斯爵士朝远离蒂普顿农庄的方向快速骑行了半个小时后，他放慢了步伐，最后拐进了一条可以让他以更短的距离返回的道路。种种感受使他下定决心，今天还是去田庄吧，好像什么新鲜事都没有发生过一样。他不禁庆幸自己从来没有提出要约而被拒绝。仅仅出于友好的礼貌，他就应该打电话去见多萝西娅，了解小屋的情况，现在很高兴卡德瓦拉德夫人已经准备好让他在必要时表示祝贺，而不会表现出太多的尴尬。他真的不喜欢这样：放弃多萝西娅对他来说非常痛苦；但决心立即进行这次访问并克服所有感情的表现，这是一种咬文件和反刺激的态度。尽管他没有清楚地意识到这种冲动，但他确实有一种感觉，西莉亚会在那里，他应该比以前更加关注她。

We mortals, men and women, devour many a disappointment between breakfast and dinner-time; keep back the tears and look a little pale about the lips, and in answer to inquiries say, ‘Oh, nothing!’ Pride helps us; and pride is not a bad thing when it only urges us to hide our own hurts—not to hurt others.
我们凡人，无论男女，在早餐和晚餐时间之间都会经历许多失望。忍住眼泪，嘴唇显得有点苍白，在回答询问时说：“哦，没什么！”骄傲帮助我们；骄傲帮助我们。当骄傲只会促使我们隐藏自己的伤害——而不是伤害他人时，它并不是一件坏事。

CHAPTER VII
第七章

‘Piacer e popone
'皮亚瑟和波波尼

Vuol la sua stagione.’
Vuol la sua stigione。’

—Italian Proverb.
——意大利谚语。

Mr. Casaubon, as might be expected, spent a great deal of his time at the Grange in these weeks, and the hindrance which courtship occasioned to the progress of his great work—the Key to all Mythologies—naturally made him look forward the more eagerly to the happy termination of courtship. But he had deliberately incurred the hindrance, having made up his mind that it was now time for him to adorn his life with the graces of female companionship, to irradiate the gloom which fatigue was apt to hang over the intervals of studious labor with the play of female fancy, and to secure in this, his culminating age, the solace of female tendance for his declining years. Hence he determined to abandon himself to the stream of feeling, and perhaps was surprised to find what an exceedingly shallow rill it was. As in droughty regions baptism by immersion could only be performed symbolically, Mr. Casaubon found that sprinkling was the utmost approach to a plunge which his stream would afford him; and he concluded that the poets had much exaggerated the force of masculine passion. Nevertheless, he observed with pleasure that Miss Brooke showed an ardent submissive affection which promised to fulfil his most agreeable previsions of marriage. It had once or twice crossed his mind that possibly there, was some deficiency in Dorothea to account for the moderation of his abandonment; but he was unable to discern the deficiency, or to figure to himself a woman who would have pleased him better; so that there was clearly no reason to fall back upon but the exaggerations of human tradition.
不出所料，卡苏邦先生这几周在农庄度过了大部分时间，而求爱给他的伟大著作——所有神话的钥匙——的进展带来的阻碍，自然让他更加期待更多的事情。热切地希望爱情能够幸福地结束。但他故意招来了阻碍，因为他下定决心，现在是时候用女性陪伴的恩典来装饰他的生活了，用戏剧来驱散因疲劳而笼罩在刻苦劳动间隙的阴郁。女性的幻想，并在他的巅峰时期确保他的晚年得到女性倾向的安慰。因此，他决定让自己沉浸在情感之流中，也许会惊讶地发现那是一条多么浅的小溪。由于在干旱地区，浸入式洗礼只能象征性地进行，卡苏邦先生发现，洒水是他的溪流所能提供给他的最好的浸入水中的方法。他的结论是，诗人过分夸大了男性激情的力量。尽管如此，他还是高兴地发现布鲁克小姐表现出了一种热切的顺从的感情，这有望实现他对婚姻最满意的期望。他曾有一两次想到，多萝西娅可能存在某种缺陷，无法解释他对自己的放弃有多么温和。但他无法看出其中的缺陷，也无法想象出一个更能让他高兴的女人。因此，除了人类传统的夸张之外，显然没有任何理由可以依靠。

‘Could I not be preparing myself now to be more useful?’ said Dorothea to him, one morning, early in the time of courtship; ‘could I not learn to read Latin and Greek aloud to you, as Milton’s daughters did to their father, without understanding what they read?’
“我现在不能准备好让自己变得更有用吗？”一天早上，在求爱的初期，多萝西娅对他说。 “我难道不能像弥尔顿的女儿们对她们的父亲那样，在不理解她们所读内容的情况下，学习向你们大声朗读拉丁语和希腊语吗？”

‘I fear that would be wearisome to you,’ said Mr. Casaubon, smiling; ‘and, indeed, if I remember rightly, the young women you have mentioned regarded that exercise in unknown tongues as a ground for rebellion against the poet.’
“我担心这会让你感到厌烦，”卡苏邦先生微笑着说道。 “事实上，如果我没记错的话，你提到的那些年轻女性将这种用未知语言进行的练习视为反抗诗人的理由。”

‘Yes; but in the first place they were very naughty girls, else they would have been proud to minister to such a father; and in the second place they might have studied privately and taught themselves to understand what they read, and then it would have been interesting. I hope you don’t expect me to be naughty and stupid?’
'是的;但首先她们都是非常顽皮的女孩，否则她们会为服事这样的父亲而感到自豪。其次，他们可能会私下学习并自学理解所读的内容，然后就会很有趣。我希望你不要指望我调皮又愚蠢？

‘I expect you to be all that an exquisite young lady can be in every possible relation of life. Certainly it might be a great advantage if you were able to copy the Greek character, and to that end it were well to begin with a little reading.’
“我希望你在生活中的每一种可能的关系中都能成为一位精致的年轻女士。当然，如果你能够复制希腊字符，这可能是一个很大的优势，为此，最好从一点阅读开始。

Dorothea seized this as a precious permission. She would not have asked Mr. Casaubon at once to teach her the languages, dreading of all things to be tiresome instead of helpful; but it was not entirely out of devotion to her future husband that she wished to know Latin and Creek. Those provinces of masculine knowledge seemed to her a standing-ground from which all truth could be seen more truly. As it was, she constantly doubted her own conclusions, because she felt her own ignorance: how could she be confident that one-roomed cottages were not for the glory of God, when men who knew the classics appeared to conciliate indifference to the cottages with zeal for the glory? Perhaps even Hebrew might be necessary—at least the alphabet and a few roots—in order to arrive at the core of things, and judge soundly on the social duties of the Christian. And she had not reached that point of renunciation at which she would have been satisfier’ with having a wise husband: she wished, poor child, to be wise herself. Miss Brooke was certainly very naive with al: her alleged cleverness. Celia, whose mind had never been thought too powerful, saw the emptiness of other people’s pretensions much more readily. To have in general but little feeling, seems to be the only security against feeling too much on any particular occasion.
多萝西娅将此视为宝贵的许可。她不会立即要求卡苏邦先生教她语言，因为她担心一切都会变得令人厌烦而不是有帮助；但她希望了解拉丁语和克里克语，并不完全是出于对她未来丈夫的忠诚。对她来说，男性知识的这些领域似乎是一个立足点，从中可以更真实地看到所有真理。事实上，她不断地怀疑自己的结论，因为她感到自己的无知：她怎么能确信单间小屋不是为了上帝的荣耀，当了解古典的人似乎用与对荣耀的热忱？也许甚至希伯来语也可能是必要的——至少是字母表和一些词根——以便到达事物的核心，并正确地判断基督徒的社会责任。她还没有达到那种放弃的地步，如果有一个聪明的丈夫，她会感到更满足：可怜的孩子，她希望自己也能变得聪明。布鲁克小姐对她所谓的聪明确实非常天真。西莉亚的心智从未被认为太强大，她更容易看到别人的自命不凡。总体上有很少的感觉，似乎是在任何特定场合避免感觉太多的唯一保障。

However, Mr. Casaubon consented to listen and teach for an hour together, like a schoolmaster of little boys, or rather like a lover, to whom a mistress’s elementary ignorance and difficulties have a touching fitness. Few scholars would have disliked teaching the alphabet under such circumstances. But Dorothea herself was a little shocked and discouraged at her own stupidity, and the answers she got to some timid questions about the value of the Greek accents gave her a painful suspicion that here indeed there might be secrets not capable of explanation to a woman’s reason.
然而，卡苏邦先生同意一起听课并教课一个小时，就像一个小男孩的校长，或者更确切地说，像一个情人，对情妇的基本无知和困难有着感人的契合。很少有学者会不喜欢在这种情况下教授字母表。但多萝西娅本人对自己的愚蠢感到有点震惊和沮丧，而她对一些关于希腊口音的价值的胆怯问题的回答让她痛苦地怀疑，这里确实可能存在无法用女人的理性解释的秘密。 。

Mr. Brooke had no doubt on that point, and expressed himself with his usual strength upon it one day that he came into the library while the reading was going forward.
布鲁克先生对这一点深信不疑，有一天，他在阅读正在进行时走进了图书馆，并以一贯的强硬态度表达了自己的观点。

‘Well, but now, Casaubon, such deep studies, classics, mathematics, that kind of thing, are too taxing for a woman—too taxing, you know.’
“好吧，但是现在，卡索邦，如此深入的研究、古典文学、数学之类的事情，对一个女人来说太繁重了——太繁重了，你知道的。”

‘Dorothea is learning to read the characters simply,’ said Mr. Casaubon, evading the question. ‘She had the very considerate thought of saving my eyes.’
“多萝西娅正在学习简单地读汉字，”卡苏邦先生回避了这个问题，说道。 “她非常体贴地想到要拯救我的眼睛。”

‘Ah, well, without understanding, you know—that may not be so bad. But there is a lightness about the feminine mind—a touch and go—music, the fine arts, that kind of thing—they should study those up to a certain point, women should; but in a light way, you know. A woman should be able to sit down and play you or sing you a good old English tune. That is what I like; though I have heard most things—been at the opera in Vienna: Gluck, Mozart, everything of that sort. But I’m a conservative in music—it’s not like ideas, you know. I stick to the good old tunes.’
“啊，好吧，如果不理解，你知道——那也许还不错。但女性的心灵有一种轻松的感觉——一触即发——音乐、美术，诸如此类的东西——她们应该在某种程度上研究这些，女性也应该这样做；但以一种轻松的方式，你知道。一个女人应该能够坐下来给你弹奏或者给你唱一首好听的英国老歌。这就是我喜欢的；尽管我听过大多数事情——在维也纳的歌剧院：格鲁克、莫扎特，诸如此类的一切。但我在音乐上是个保守派——你知道，这不像想法。我坚持唱好听的老曲子。

‘Mr. Casaubon is not fond of the piano, and I am very glad he is not,’ said Dorothea, whose slight regard for domestic music and feminine fine art must be forgiven her, considering the small tinkling and smearing in which they chiefly consisted at that dark period. She smiled and looked up at her betrothed with grateful eyes. If he had always been asking her to play the ‘Last Rose of Summer,’ she would have required much resignation. ‘He says there is only an old harpsichord at Lowick, and it is covered with books.’
'先生。卡索邦不喜欢钢琴，我很高兴他不喜欢，”多萝西娅说，她对家庭音乐和女性美术的轻微尊重必须得到原谅，考虑到它们主要存在于黑暗中的小丁当声和涂抹声。时期。她微笑着，抬头用感激的目光看着她的未婚夫。如果他一直要求她演奏《夏日最后的玫瑰》，她就需要听天由命了。 “他说洛威克只有一把旧羽管键琴，上面摆满了书。”

‘Ah, there you are behind Celia, my dear. Celia, now, plays very prettily, and is always ready to play. However, since Casaubon does not like it, you are all right. But it’s a pity you should not have little recreations of that sort, Casaubon: the bow always strung—that kind of thing, you know—will not do.’
“啊，亲爱的，你就在西莉亚后面。西莉亚现在打得非常漂亮，并且随时准备好打球。不过，既然卡苏朋不喜欢，那也没关系。但遗憾的是，你不应该有这样的小娱乐，卡苏朋：弓总是拉着的——你知道，那种事是不行的。

‘I never could look on it in the light of a recreation to have my ears teased with measured noises,’ said Mr. Casaubon. ‘A tune much iterated has the ridiculous effect of making the words in my mind perform a sort of minuet to keep time—an effect hardly tolerable, I imagine, after boyhood. As to the grander forms of music, worthy to accompany solemn celebrations, and even to serve as an educating influence according to the ancient conception, I say nothing, for with these we are not immediately concerned.’
卡苏邦先生说：“我从来不能把它当作一种娱乐来看待，让我的耳朵被有节制的噪音所戏弄。” “一首反复播放的曲子会产生一种荒唐的效果，让我脑海中的歌词表演一种小步舞曲来计时——我想，在童年之后，这种效果是难以忍受的。至于更宏伟的音乐形式，值得伴随庄严的庆祝活动，甚至根据古老的观念发挥教育作用，我什么也没说，因为我们并不立即关心这些。

‘No; but music of that sort I should enjoy,’ said Dorothea. ‘When we were coming home from Lausanne my uncle took us to hear the great organ at Freiberg, and it made me sob.’
'不;但我应该喜欢那种音乐，”多萝西娅说。 “当我们从洛桑回家时，我叔叔带我们去弗莱贝格聆听伟大的管风琴，这让我哭泣。”

‘That kind of thing is not healthy, my dear,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘Casaubon, she will be in your hands now: you must teach my niece to take things more quietly, eh, Dorothea?’
“亲爱的，那样的事情不健康，”布鲁克先生说。 “卡索邦，她现在就在你手里了：你必须教我的侄女更安静地处理事情，嗯，多萝西娅？”

He ended with a smile, not wishing to hurt his niece, but really thinking that it was perhaps better for her to be early married to so sober a fellow as Casaubon, since she would not hear of Chettam.
最后他微笑着结束，不想伤害他的侄女，但他真的认为她最好早点嫁给像卡苏朋这样清醒的人，因为她不会听到切塔姆的消息。

‘It is wonderful, though,’ he said to himself as he shuffled out of the room—‘it is wonderful that she should have liked him. However, the match is good. I should have been travelling out of my brief to have hindered it, let Mrs. Cadwallader say what she will. He is pretty certain to be a bishop, is Casaubon. That was a very seasonable pamphlet of his on the Catholic Question:—a deanery at least. They owe him a deanery.’
“不过，这真是太棒了，”他拖着脚步走出房间时对自己说，“她竟然会喜欢他，这真是太棒了。”不过，比赛还是不错的。我应该离开我的简报来妨碍它，让卡德沃拉德夫人怎么说吧。他很肯定会成为一名主教，卡苏邦。那是他关于天主教问题的一本非常及时的小册子：——至少是一个教区。他们欠他一个教区。

And here I must vindicate a claim to philosophical reflectiveness, by remarking that Mr. Brooke on this occasion little thought of the Radical speech which, at a later period, he was led to make on the incomes of the bishops. What elegant historian would neglect a striking opportunity for pointing out that his heroes did not foresee the history of the world, or even their own actions?—For example, that Henry of Navarre, when a Protestant baby, little thought of being a Catholic monarch; or that Alfred the Great, when he measured his laborious nights with burning candles, had no idea of future gentlemen measuring their idle days with watches. Here is a mine of truth, which, however vigorously it may be worked, is likely to outlast our coal.
在这里，我必须通过指出布鲁克先生这次很少想到激进的演讲来证明哲学反思性的主张，而在后来的时期，他被引导对主教的收入发表了激进的演讲。哪个优雅的历史学家会忽视一个引人注目的机会来指出他的英雄没有预见到世界的历史，甚至他们自己的行为？——例如，纳瓦拉的亨利，当一个新教婴儿时，很少想到成为一个天主教君主;或者说，当阿尔弗雷德大帝用燃烧的蜡烛来衡量他辛苦的夜晚时，他并不知道未来的绅士们用手表来衡量他们无所事事的日子。这里是一座真理的宝藏，无论开采得多么努力，它都可能比我们的煤炭更长久。

But of Mr. Brooke I make a further remark perhaps less warranted by precedent—namely, that if he had foreknown his speech, it might not have made any great difference. To think with pleasure of his niece’s husband having a large ecclesiastical income was one thing—to make a Liberal speech was another thing; and it is a narrow mind which cannot look at a subject from various points of view.
但我对布鲁克先生作了进一步的评论，也许没有先例的依据——也就是说，如果他预先知道他的演讲，可能不会产生任何重大影响。高兴地想到他的侄女的丈夫拥有大量的教会收入是一回事，而发表自由党演讲则是另一回事；而他的侄女的丈夫在教会中拥有大量收入是一回事，而发表自由党演讲则是另一回事。这是一种狭隘的思维，无法从不同的角度来看待一个问题。

CHAPTER VIII
第八章

‘Oh, rescue her! I am her brother now,
‘噢，快救救她吧！我现在是她哥哥了

And you her father. Every gentle maid
还有你，她的父亲。每一个温柔的女仆

Should have a guardian in each gentleman.’
每个绅士都应该有一个监护人。

It was wonderful to Sir James Chettam how well he continued to like going to the Grange after he had once encountered the difficulty of seeing Dorothea for the first time in the light of a woman who was engaged to another man. Of course the forked lightning seemed to pass through him when he first approached her, and he remained conscious throughout the interview of hiding uneasiness; but, good as he was, it must be owned that his uneasiness was less than it would have been if he had thought his rival a brilliant and desirable match. He had no sense of being eclipsed by Mr. Casaubon; he was only shocked that Dorothea was under a melancholy illusion, and his mortification lost some of its bitterness by being mingled with compassion.
詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士很高兴在他第一次见到多萝西娅时遇到了困难，因为他是一个与另一个男人订婚的女人，但他仍然喜欢去农庄。当然，当他第一次接近她时，分叉的闪电似乎穿过了他，在整个采访过程中他始终意识到隐藏着不安；但是，尽管他很优秀，但必须承认的是，如果他认为他的对手是一位出色而理想的搭档，那么他的不安就会减轻一些。他并没有觉得卡苏朋先生让他黯然失色。他只是惊讶于多萝西娅陷入了忧郁的幻觉之中，他的羞耻感因与同情心的混合而失去了一些苦涩。

Nevertheless, while Sir James said to himself that he had completely resigned her, since with the perversity of a Desdemona she had not affected a proposed match that was clearly suitable and according to nature; he could not yet be quite passive under the idea of her engagement to Mr. Casaubon. On the day when he first saw them together in the light of his present knowledge, it seemed to him that he had not taken the affair seriously enough. Brooke was really culpable; he ought to have hindered it. Who could speak to him? Something might be done perhaps even now, at least to defer the marriage. On his way home he turned into the Rectory and asked for Mr. Cadwallader. Happily, the Rector was at home, and his visitor was shown into the study, where all the fishing tackle hung. But he himself was in a little room adjoining, at work with his turning apparatus, and he called to the baronet to join him there. The two were better friends than any other landholder and clergyman in the county—a significant fact which was in agreement with the amiable expression of their faees.
尽管如此，尽管詹姆斯爵士对自己说，他已经完全放弃了她，因为苔丝狄蒙娜的任性，她并没有影响一个明显适合和符合自然的提议的婚姻;想到她要和卡苏朋先生订婚，他还不能太被动。根据他目前的了解，当他第一次看到他们在一起的那天，他似乎还没有足够认真地对待这件事。布鲁克确实有罪。他应该阻止它。谁能跟他说话？也许现在就可以采取一些措施，至少推迟婚姻。在回家的路上，他走进教区长官邸并要求见卡德瓦拉德先生。令人高兴的是，校长在家，他的访客被带进书房，那里挂着所有的渔具。但他本人正在隔壁的一个小房间里，正在操作他的转动装置，他招呼男爵和他一起去那里。他们两人是比县里任何其他土地所有者和牧师都要好的朋友——这是一个重要的事实，这与他们的神情和蔼可亲的表情是一致的。

Mr. Cadwallader was a large man, with full lips and a sweet smile; very plain and rough in his exterior, but with that solid imperturbable ease and good-humor which is infectious, and like great grassy hills in the sunshine, quiets even an irritated egoism, and makes it rather ashamed of itself. ‘Well, how are you?’ he said, showing a hand not quite fit to be grasped. ‘Sorry I missed you before. Is there anything particular? You look vexed.’
卡德沃拉德先生身材高大，嘴唇丰满，笑容甜美。他的外表非常朴素、粗犷，但他的镇定自在和幽默感极富感染力，就像阳光下长满青草的山丘，即使是恼怒的利己主义也能平静下来，并使其感到羞愧。 “嗯，你怎么样？”他说道，伸出了一只不太适合抓握的手。 ‘对不起，我之前想念你。有什么特别的吗？你看起来很烦恼。

Sir James’s brow had a little crease in it, a little depression of the eyebrow, which he seemed purposely to exaggerate as he answered.
詹姆斯爵士的眉毛上有一点皱纹，眉毛有一点凹陷，他回答时似乎故意夸大了这一点。

‘It is only this conduct of Brooke’s. I really think somebody should speak to him.’
‘这只是布鲁克的行为。我真的认为有人应该和他谈谈。

‘What? meaning to stand?’ said Mr. Cadwallader, going on with the arrangement of the reels which he had just been turning. ‘I hardly think he means it. But where’s the harm, if he likes it? Any one who objects to Whiggery should be glad when the Whigs don’t put up the strongest fellow. They won’t overturn the Constitution with our friend Brooke’s head for a battering ram.’
'什么？ “是站着吗？”卡德沃拉德先生一边说，一边继续整理他刚刚转动的卷轴。 “我几乎不认为他是认真的。但如果他喜欢的话，又有什么坏处呢？当辉格党没有派出最强的家伙时，任何反对辉格党的人都应该感到高兴。他们不会用我们朋友布鲁克的头作为攻城槌来推翻宪法。”

‘Oh, I don’t mean that,’ said Sir James, who, after putting down his hat and throwing himself into a chair, had begun to nurse his leg and examine the sole of his boot with much bitterness. ‘I mean this marriage. I mean his letting that blooming young girl marry Casaubon.’
“噢，我不是这个意思。”詹姆斯爵士说。他放下帽子，一屁股坐在椅子上，开始护理他的腿，并痛苦地检查他的靴底。 “我指的是这场婚姻。我的意思是他让那个盛开的年轻女孩嫁给了卡苏邦。

‘What is the matter with Casaubon? I see no harm in him—if the girl likes him.’
‘卡苏朋怎么了？我认为他没有什么坏处——如果那个女孩喜欢他的话。

‘She is too young to know what she likes. Her guardian ought to interfere. He ought not to allow the thing to be done in this headlong manner. I wonder a man like you, Cadwallader—a man with daughters, can look at the affair with indifference: and with such a heart as yours! Do think seriously about it.’
“她还太小，不知道自己喜欢什么。她的监护人应该干涉。他不应该允许事情就这样轻率地进行。我想知道像你这样的男人，卡德沃拉德——一个有女儿的男人，能以冷漠的态度看待这件事：而且有你这样的一颗心！请认真考虑一下。

‘I am not joking; I am as serious as possible,’ said the Rector, with a provoking little inward laugh. ‘You are as bad as Elinor. She has been wanting me to go and lecture Brooke; and I have reminded her that her friends had a very poor opinion of the match she made when she married me.’
“我不是在开玩笑；我是尽可能严肃的。”教区长说道，内心发出一阵令人发笑的笑声。 ‘你和埃莉诺一样坏。她一直想让我去给布鲁克讲课。我提醒她，她的朋友们对她嫁给我时的婚姻评价很差。

‘But look at Casaubon,’ said Sir James, indignantly. ‘He must be fifty, and I don’t believe he could ever have been much more than the shadow of a man. Look at his legs!’
“但是看看卡苏朋，”詹姆斯爵士愤怒地说。 “他一定有五十岁了，我不相信他能比一个男人的影子更伟大。看看他的腿！

‘Confound you handsome young fellows! you think of having it all your own way in the world. Tou don’t under stand women. They don’t admire you half so much as you admire yourselves. Elinor used to tell her sisters that she married me for my ugliness—it was so various and amusing that it had quite conquered her prudence.’
‘让你们这些英俊的年轻人感到困惑！你想在这个世界上以你自己的方式拥有一切。你不懂女人。他们对你的钦佩程度还不及你对自己的钦佩程度。埃莉诺常常告诉她的姐妹们，她嫁给我是因为我的丑陋——这真是千奇百怪、有趣，以至于完全征服了她的谨慎。

‘You! it was easy enough for a woman to love you. But this is no question of beauty. I don’t LIKE Casaubon.’ This was Sir James’s strongest way of implying that he thought ill of a man’s character.
'你！一个女人爱你是很容易的事。但这不是美丽的问题。我不喜欢卡苏邦。”这是詹姆斯爵士最强烈的暗示他看不起一个人的性格的方式。

‘Why? what do you know against him?’ said the Rector laying down his reels, and putting his thumbs into his armholes with an air of attention.
'为什么？ “你对他了解多少？”教区长放下渔线轮，把拇指插进袖孔，神情专注地说。

Sir James paused. He did not usually find it easy to give his reasons: it seemed to him strange that people should not know them without being told, since he only felt what was reasonable. At last he said—
詹姆斯爵士停了下来。他通常觉得说出自己的理由并不容易：在他看来，人们不应该在未经告知的情况下知道他们的理由，这似乎很奇怪，因为他只觉得合理。最后他说——

‘Now, Cadwallader, has he got any heart?’
“现在，卡德沃拉德，他还有心吗？”

‘Well, yes. I don’t mean of the melting sort, but a sound kernel, THAT you may be sure of. He is very good to his poor relations: pensions several of the women, and is educating a young fellow at a good deal of expense. Casaubon acts up to his sense of justice. His mother’s sister made a bad match—a Pole, I think—lost herself—at any rate was disowned by her family. If it had not been for that, Casaubon would not have had so much money by half. I believe he went himself to find out his cousins, and see what he could do for them. Every man would not ring so well as that, if you tried his metal. YOU would, Chettam; but not every man.’
'嗯，是。我指的不是融化类型，而是一个健全的内核，你可以确定这一点。他对他的穷亲戚非常好：为几名妇女提供养老金，并花费大量费用教育一名年轻人。卡索邦的行为符合他的正义感。他母亲的妹妹嫁得很差——我想是个波兰人——迷失了自己——至少被她的家人断绝了关系。如果不是这样，卡苏邦也不会有那么多钱。我相信他亲自去寻找他的表兄弟姐妹，看看他能为他们做些什么。如果你尝试一下他的金属，每个人的铃声都不会那么好。你会的，切塔姆；但不是每个人。

‘I don’t know,’ said Sir James, coloring. ‘I am not so sure of myself.’ He paused a moment, and then added, ‘That was a right thing for Casaubon to do. But a man may wish to do what is right, and yet be a sort of parchment code. A woman may not be happy with him. And I think when a girl is so young as Miss Brooke is, her friends ought to interfere a little to hinder her from doing anything foolish. You laugh, because you fancy I have some feeling on my own account. But upon my honor, it is not that. I should feel just the same if I were Miss Brooke’s brother or uncle.’
“我不知道，”詹姆斯爵士红着脸说道。 “我对自己不太确定。”他停顿了一下，然后补充道，“卡苏朋这样做是正确的。”但一个人可能希望做正确的事，同时又希望成为一种羊皮纸密码。女人和他在一起可能不会幸福。我认为当一个女孩像布鲁克小姐这样年轻时，她的朋友应该稍微干涉一下，阻止她做任何愚蠢的事情。你笑，是因为你以为我有自己的感觉。但以我的名誉担保，事实并非如此。如果我是布鲁克小姐的兄弟或叔叔，我也会有同样的感觉。

‘Well, but what should you do?’
“好吧，但是你该怎么办呢？”

‘I should say that the marriage must not be decided on until she was of age. And depend upon it, in that case, it would never come off. I wish you saw it as I do—I wish you would talk to Brooke about it.’
“我应该说，在她成年之前，不能决定婚姻。并且依靠它，在这种情况下，它永远不会脱落。我希望你能像我一样看待这件事——我希望你能和布鲁克谈谈这件事。

Sir James rose as he was finishing his sentence, for he saw Mrs. Cadwallader entering from the study. She held by the hand her youngest girl, about five years old, who immediately ran to papa, and was made comfortable on his knee.
詹姆斯爵士说完话后站了起来，因为他看到卡德瓦拉德夫人从书房走了进来。她牵着她最小的女儿，大约五岁，她立即跑到爸爸身边，舒服地坐在他的膝盖上。

‘I hear what you are talking about,’ said the wife. ‘But you will make no impression on Humphrey. As long as the fish rise to his bait, everybody is what he ought to be. Bless you, Casaubon has got a trout-stream, and does not care about fishing in it himself: could there be a better fellow?’
“我听到你在说什么了，”妻子说。 “但是你不会给汉弗莱留下任何印象。”只要鱼上钩，每个人都是他应该做的。上帝保佑你，卡苏朋有一条鳟鱼溪，他自己并不关心在里面钓鱼：还有更好的人吗？

‘Well, there is something in that,’ said the Rector, with his quiet, inward laugh. ‘It is a very good quality in a man to have a trout-stream.’
“嗯，这里面有一些东西，”教区长平静地、内心地笑道。 “拥有一条鳟鱼溪流是一个人非常好的品质。”

‘But seriously,’ said Sir James, whose vexation had not yet spent itself, ‘don’t you think the Rector might do some good by speaking?’
“不过说真的，”詹姆斯爵士的恼怒还没有平息，“你不认为教区长的发言可能会带来一些好处吗？”

‘Oh, I told you beforehand what he would say,’ answered Mrs. Cadwallader, lifting up her eyebrows. ‘I have done what I could: I wash my hands of the marriage.’
“哦，我事先告诉过你他会说什么，”卡德沃拉德夫人扬起眉毛回答道。 “我已经做了我能做的：我不再对婚姻置之不理。”

‘In the first place,’ said the Rector, looking rather grave, ‘it would be nonsensical to expect that I could convince Brooke, and make him act accordingly. Brooke is a very good fellow, but pulpy; he will run into any mould, but he won’t keep shape.’
“首先，”校长神情严肃地说，“指望我能说服布鲁克，让他采取相应的行动，那是荒谬的。布鲁克是一个很好的人，但是很软弱。他会遇到任何模具，但他不会保持形状。

‘He might keep shape long enough to defer the marriage,’ said Sir James.
“他可能会保持足够长的时间来推迟婚姻，”詹姆斯爵士说。

‘But, my dear Chettam, why should I use my influence to Casaubon’s disadvantage, unless I were much surer than I am that I should be acting for the advantage of Miss Brooke? I know no harm of Casaubon. I don’t care about his Xisuthrus and Fee-fo-fum and the rest; but then he doesn’t care about my fishing-tackle. As to the line he took on the Catholic Question, that was unexpected; but he has always been civil to me, and I don’t see why I should spoil his sport. For anything I can tell, Miss Brooke may be happier with him than she would be with any other man.’
“但是，亲爱的切塔姆，我为什么要利用自己的影响力来损害卡索邦的利益，除非我比自己更加确信自己应该为布鲁克小姐谋取利益？我不知道卡索邦有什么坏处。我不关心他的 Xisuthrus 和 Fee-fo-fum 以及其他的；但他并不关心我的渔具。至于他在天主教问题上所采取的立场，这是出乎意料的。但他对我一直很客气，我不明白为什么我应该破坏他的运动。据我所知，布鲁克小姐和他在一起可能比和其他男人在一起更快乐。

‘Humphrey! I have no patience with you. You know you would rather dine under the hedge than with Casaubon alone. You have nothing to say to each other.’
汉弗莱！我对你没有耐心。你知道你宁愿在树篱下用餐，也不愿独自和卡索邦在一起。你们彼此无话可说。

‘What has that to do with Miss Brooke’s marrying him? She does not do it for my amusement.’
“这和布鲁克小姐嫁给他有什么关系？”她这样做并不是为了让我开心。”

‘He has got no good red blood in his body,’ said Sir James.
“他体内没有好的红色血液，”詹姆斯爵士说。

‘No. Somebody put a drop under a magnifying-glass and it was all semicolons and parentheses,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader.
'不。有人在放大镜下滴了一滴，结果都是分号和括号，”卡德沃拉德夫人说。

‘Why does he not bring out his book, instead of marrying,’ said Sir James, with a disgust which he held warranted by the sound feeling of an English layman.
“他为什么不出版他的书，而是结婚呢？”詹姆斯爵士说道，他的厌恶感是由英国门外汉的健全感觉所保证的。

‘Oh, he dreams footnotes, and they run away with all his brains. They say, when he was a little boy, he made an abstract of ‘Hop o’ my Thumb,’ and he has been making abstracts ever since. Ugh! And that is the man Humphrey goes on saying that a woman may be happy with.’
‘哦，他梦见脚注，而脚注却用尽了他的全部大脑。他们说，当他还是个小男孩时，他创作了《Hop o’ my Thumb》的摘要，从那时起他就一直在创作摘要。啊!汉弗莱一直说，女人可能会对这样的男人感到满意。

‘Well, he is what Miss Brooke likes,’ said the Rector. ‘I don’t profess to understand every young lady’s taste.’
“嗯，他就是布鲁克小姐喜欢的人，”校长说。 “我并不自称了解每位年轻女士的品味。”

‘But if she were your own daughter?’ said Sir James.
“但如果她是你自己的女儿呢？”詹姆斯爵士说。

‘That would be a different affair. She is NOT my daughter, and I don’t feel called upon to interfere. Casaubon is as good as most of us. He is a scholarly clergyman, and creditable to the cloth. Some Radical fellow speechifying at Middlemarch said Casaubon was the learned straw-chopping incumbent, and Freke was the brick-and-mortar incumbent, and I was the angling incumbent. And upon my word, I don’t see that one is worse or better than the other.’ The Rector ended with his silent laugh. He always saw the joke of any satire against himself. His conscience was large and easy, like the rest of him: it did only what it could do without any trouble.
‘那将是另一回事了。她不是我的女儿，我不觉得有必要干涉。卡索邦和我们大多数人一样好。他是一位博学的牧师，在布料上享有盛誉。一些在米德尔马契发表演讲的激进派人士说，卡苏邦是一位博学的砍稻草的现任者，弗雷克是一位实体的现任者，而我是一位钓鱼的现任者。老实说，我不认为其中一个比另一个更差或更好。” 教区长以无声的笑声结束了发言。他总是看到任何讽刺自己的笑话。他的良心宽广而坦然，就像他的其他部分一样：它只做它能做的事，没有任何麻烦。

Clearly, there would be no interference with Miss Brooke’s marriage through Mr. Cadwallader; and Sir James felt with some sadness that she was to have perfect liberty of misjudgment. It was a sign of his good disposition that he did not slacken at all in his intention of carrying out Dorothea’s de. sign of the cottages. Doubtless this persistence was the best course for his own dignity: but pride only helps us to be generous; it never makes us so, any more than vanity makes us witty. She was now enough aware of Sir James’s position with regard to her, to appreciate the rectitude of his perseverance in a landlord’s duty, to which he had at first been urged by a lover’s complaisance, and her pleasure in it was great enough to count for something even in her present happiness. Per. haps she gave to Sir James Chettam’s cottages all the interest she could spare from Mr. Casaubon, or rather from the symphony of hopeful dreams, admiring trust, and passionate self devotion which that learned gentleman had set playing in her soul. Hence it happened that in the good baronet’s succeed ing visits, while he was beginning to pay small attentions to Celia, he found himself talking with more and more pleasure to Dorothea. She was perfectly unconstrained and without irritation towards him now, and he was gradually discovering the delight there is in frank kindness and companionship between a man and a woman who have no passion to hide or confess.
显然，卡德沃拉德先生不会干涉布鲁克小姐的婚姻。詹姆斯爵士感到有些悲伤，因为她有完全的误判自由。他毫不松懈地执行多萝西娅的旨意，这表明了他的良好性格。小屋的标志。毫无疑问，这种坚持是维护他自己尊严的最佳途径：但骄傲只会帮助我们变得慷慨；而骄傲只会让我们变得慷慨。它从来不会让我们如此，就像虚荣不会让我们变得机智一样。她现在足够清楚詹姆斯爵士对她的立场，欣赏他对房东义务的坚持不懈的正直，他最初是受到情人的温顺的敦促而这样做的，她对此感到非常高兴，足以算得上是。甚至在她目前的幸福中也有一些东西。每。也许她对詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士的小屋倾注了她从卡苏邦先生那里得到的所有兴趣，或者更确切地说，从这位博学的绅士在她灵魂中演奏的充满希望的梦想、钦佩的信任和热情的自我奉献的交响乐中得到了所有的兴趣。因此，在这位善良的准男爵接下来的几次拜访中，虽然他开始很少关注西莉亚，但他发现自己越来越愉快地与多萝西娅交谈。她现在对他完全没有拘束，没有任何刺激，他也逐渐发现了一对没有隐瞒或坦白的男女之间坦率的善意和陪伴所带来的快乐。

CHAPTER IX
第九章

1st Gent. An ancient land in ancient oracles
第一绅士。古老神谕中的古老土地

Is called ‘law-thirsty”: all the struggle there
被称为“渴望法律”：所有的斗争都在那里

Was after order and a perfect rule.
是在秩序和完美的规则之后。

Pray, where lie such lands now? …
请问，这样的土地现在在哪里？ ……

2d Gent. Why, where they lay of old—in human souls.
2d 绅士。哎呀，它们就在古老的地方——在人类的灵魂里。

Mr. Casaubon’s behavior about settlements was highly satisfactory to Mr. Brooke, and the preliminaries of marriage rolled smoothly along, shortening the weeks of courtship. The betrothed bride must see her future home, and dictate any changes that she would like to have made there. A woman dictates before marriage in order that she may have an appetite for submission afterwards. And certainly, the mistakes that we male and female mortals make when we have our own way might fairly raise some wonder that we are so fond of it.
卡苏邦先生在和解方面的表现令布鲁克先生非常满意，婚姻的准备工作进展顺利，缩短了求爱的时间。订婚的新娘必须看到她未来的家，并决定她想要在那里做出的任何改变。女人在婚前发号施令，是为了让婚后有顺服的欲望。当然，我们人类凡人在按自己的方式行事时所犯的错误可能会令人惊讶，因为我们如此喜欢它。

On a gray but dry November morning Dorothea drove to Lowick in company with her uncle and Celia. Mr. Casaubon’s home was the manor-house. Close by, visible from some parts of the garden, was the little church, with the old parsonage opposite. In the beginning of his career, Mr. Casaubon had only held the living, but the death of his brother had put him in possession of the manor also. It had a small park, with a fine old oak here and there, and an avenue of limes towards the southwest front, with a sunk fence between park and pleasure-ground, so that from the drawing-room windows the glance swept uninterruptedly along a slope of greensward till the limes ended in a level of corn and pastures, which often seemed to melt into a lake under the setting sun. This was the happy side of the house, for the south and east looked rather melancholy even under the brightest morning. The grounds here were more confined, the flower-beds showed no very careful tendance, and large clumps of trees, chiefly of sombre yews, had risen high, not ten yards from the windows. The building, of greenish stone, was in the old English style, not ugly, but small-windowed and melancholy-looking: the sort of house that must have children, many flowers, open windows, and little vistas of bright things, to make it seem a joyous home. In this latter end of autumn, with a sparse remnant of yellow leaves falling slowly athwart the dark evergreens in a stillness without sunshine, the house too had an air of autumnal decline, and Mr. Casaubon, when he presented himself, had no bloom that could be thrown into relief by that background.
十一月的一个阴沉而干燥的早晨，多萝西娅在叔叔和西莉亚的陪伴下开车前往洛威克。卡苏邦先生的家是庄园。从花园的某些地方可以看到附近有一座小教堂，对面是旧牧师住宅。卡苏邦先生在其职业生涯之初，只拥有生者，但他兄弟的去世使他也拥有了庄园。它有一个小公园，到处都有一棵漂亮的老橡树，还有一条通向西南面的椴树大道，公园和游乐场之间有一道下沉的栅栏，所以从客厅的窗户可以不间断地扫视绿地的斜坡，直到石灰的尽头是一片玉米和牧场，在夕阳下，这些地方似乎常常融化成一个湖。这是房子快乐的一面，因为即使在最明亮的早晨，南面和东面也显得相当忧郁。这里的场地更加狭窄，花坛没有表现出非常仔细的倾向，大丛树木（主要是暗色紫杉）高高耸立，距离窗户不到十码。这座建筑是用绿色的石头建造的，是古老的英国风格，并不丑陋，但窗户很小，看上去很忧郁：这种房子必须有孩子，有很多鲜花，开着窗户，还有明亮的东西的小远景，这似乎是一个欢乐的家。在这个秋末，一片稀疏的黄叶在没有阳光的寂静中慢慢地落在深色的常青树上，房子里也有一种秋日衰落的气氛，卡苏邦先生出现时，没有任何花朵，可以通过这种背景来缓解。

‘Oh dear!’ Celia said to herself, ‘I am sure Freshitt Hall would have been pleasanter than this.’ She thought of the white freestone, the pillared portico, and the terrace full of flowers, Sir James smiling above them like a prince issuing from his enchantment in a rose-bush, with a handkerchief swiftly metamorphosed from the most delicately odorous petals—Sir James, who talked so agreeably, always about things which had common-sense in them, and not about learning! Celia had those light young feminine tastes which grave and weatherworn gentlemen sometimes prefer in a wife; but happily Mr. Casaubon’s bias had been different, for he would have had no chance with Celia.
“噢，天哪！”西莉亚自言自语道，“我相信弗雷西特庄园会比这里更令人愉快。”她想起了白色的自由石、有柱子的门廊和开满鲜花的露台，詹姆斯爵士在上面微笑，像个王子詹姆斯爵士从他在玫瑰丛中的魅力中散发出来，手帕迅速从最微妙的气味花瓣中变形而来，他总是谈论一些常识性的事情，而不是学习！西莉亚有一种年轻的女性气质，严肃而饱经风霜的绅士有时更喜欢这样的妻子。但幸运的是，卡苏邦先生的偏见有所不同，因为他不会有机会和西莉亚在一起。

Dorothea, on the contrary, found the house and grounds all that she could wish: the dark book-shelves in the long library, the carpets and curtains with colors subdued by time, the curious old maps and bird’s-eye views on the walls of the corridor, with here and there an old vase below, had no oppression for her, and seemed more cheerful than the easts and pictures at the Grange, which her uncle had long ago brought home from his travels—they being probably among the ideas he had taken in at one time. To poor Dorothea these severe classical nudities and smirking Renaissance-Correggiosities were painfully inexplicable, staring into the midst of her Puritanic conceptions: she had never been taught how she could bring them into any sort of relevance with her life. But the owners of Lowick apparently had not been travellers, and Mr. Casaubon’s studies of the past were not carried on by means of such aids.
相反，多萝西娅找到了她想要的一切：长长的图书馆里黑暗的书架，颜色随着时间而褪色的地毯和窗帘，墙上奇怪的旧地图和鸟瞰图。走廊下面到处摆着一个旧花瓶，对她来说没有任何压迫感，看起来比东方和农庄的照片更令人愉快，这些都是她叔叔很久以前从旅行中带回家的——它们可能是他的想法之一。曾一度被接纳。对于可怜的多萝西娅来说，这些严重的古典裸体和傻笑的文艺复兴时期的科雷吉奥西斯是痛苦地难以解释的，凝视着她的清教徒观念：她从未被教导过如何将它们与她的生活联系起来。但洛威克的主人显然不是旅行者，卡苏邦先生对过去的研究也不是通过这种辅助手段进行的。

Dorothea walked about the house with delightful emotion. Everything seemed hallowed to her: this was to be the home of her wifehood, and she looked up with eyes full of confidence to Mr. Casaubon when he drew her attention specially to some actual arrangement and asked her if she would like an alteration. All appeals to her taste she met gratefully, but saw nothing to alter. His efforts at exact courtesy and formal tenderness had no defect for her. She filled up all blanks with unmanifested perfections, interpreting him as she interpreted the works of Providence, and accounting for seeming discords by her own deafness to the higher harmonies. And there are many blanks left in the weeks of courtship which a loving faith fills with happy assurance.
多萝西娅带着愉快的心情在房子里走来走去。对她来说，一切似乎都是神圣的：这将是她妻子的家，当卡苏邦先生特别提请她注意一些实际安排并问她是否愿意改变时，她用充满信心的眼睛抬起头来。所有这些都符合她的品味，她感激地接受了，但觉得没有什么可以改变的。他在严格的礼貌和正式的温柔方面所做的努力对她来说没有任何缺陷。她用未表现出来的完美填补了所有的空白，像解释上帝的作品一样解释他，并解释了她自己对更高和谐的充耳不闻所带来的表面不和谐。在求爱的几周里，会留下许多空白，但充满爱的信心和幸福的保证会填补这些空白。

‘Now, my dear Dorothea, I wish you to favor me by pointing out which room you would like to have as your boudoir,’ said Mr. Casaubon, showing that his views of the womanly nature were sufficiently large to include that requirement.
“现在，我亲爱的多萝西娅，我希望你能帮我指出你想把哪个房间作为你的闺房，”卡苏邦先生说道，这表明他对女性天性的看法足够大，可以包含这一要求。

‘It is very kind of you to think of that,’ said Dorothea, ‘but I assure you I would rather have all those matters decided for me. I shall be much happier to take everything as it is—just as you have been used to have it, or as you will yourself choose it to be. I have no motive for wishing anything else.’
“你能想到这一点真是太好了，”多萝西娅说，“但我向你保证，我宁愿让所有这些事情都由我来决定。”我会更乐意接受一切事物本来的样子——就像你已经习惯的那样，或者按照你自己选择的那样。我没有任何其他愿望。

‘Oh, Dodo,’ said Celia, ‘will you not have the bow-windowed room up-stairs?’
“哦，多多，”西莉亚说，“你不想住在楼上那个有弓形窗户的房间吗？”

Mr. Casaubon led the way thither. The bow-window looked down the avenue of limes; the furniture was all of a faded blue, and there were miniatures of ladies and gentlemen with powdered hair hanging in a group. A piece of tapestry over a door also showed a blue-green world with a pale stag in it. The chairs and tables were thin-legged and easy to upset. It was a room where one might fancy the ghost of a tight-laced lady revisiting the scene of her embroidery. A light bookcase contained duodecimo volumes of polite literature in calf, completing the furniture.
卡苏邦先生带路到了那里。弓形窗俯瞰着椴树大道；家具全是褪色的蓝色，还有一群头发扑粉的女士和先生的微型模型。门上的一块挂毯也展示了一个蓝绿色的世界，里面有一只苍白的雄鹿。椅子和桌子都是细腿的，很容易翻倒。在这个房间里，人们可能会想象一位系着紧身花边的女士的鬼魂正在重温她的刺绣场景。一个轻便的书柜里装着十二卷小牛皮的礼貌文学作品，使家具更加完整。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Brooke, ‘this would be a pretty room with some new hangings, sofas, and that sort of thing. A little bare now.’
“是的，”布鲁克先生说，“这将是一个漂亮的房间，有一些新的挂饰、沙发之类的东西。现在有点光秃秃的了。

‘No, uncle,’ said Dorothea, eagerly. ‘Pray do not speak of altering anything. There are so many other things in the world that want altering—I like to take these things as they are. And you like them as they are, don’t you?’ she added, looking at Mr. Casaubon. ‘Perhaps this was your mother’s room when she was young.’
“不，叔叔，”多萝西娅急切地说。 ‘请不要谈论改变任何事情。世界上还有很多其他事情需要改变——我喜欢保持这些事情的本来面目。 “你喜欢它们本来的样子，不是吗？”她看着卡苏邦先生补充道。 “也许这是你母亲年轻时的房间。”

‘It was,’ he said, with his slow bend of the head.
“是的，”他缓缓低下头说道。

‘This is your mother,’ said Dorothea, who had turned to examine the group of miniatures. ‘It is like the tiny one you brought me; only, I should think, a better portrait. And this one opposite, who is this?’
“这是你的母亲，”多萝西娅说，她转过身来检查这组微缩模型。 ‘它就像你给我带来的那个小东西；我想，这只是一幅更好的肖像。而对面的这位，是谁？

‘Her elder sister. They were, like you and your sister, the only two children of their parents, who hang above them, you see.’
‘她的姐姐。他们就像你和你的妹妹一样，是父母唯一的两个孩子，他们的父母悬挂在他们之上，你看。

‘The sister is pretty,’ said Celia, implying that she thought less favorably of Mr. Casaubon’s mother. It was a new open ing to Celia’s imagination, that he came of a family who had all been young in their time—the ladies wearing necklaces.
“妹妹很漂亮。”西莉亚说，这暗示着她对卡苏邦先生的母亲不太好感。这对西莉亚的想象力来说是一个新的机会，因为他来自一个都年轻的家庭——女士们都戴着项链。

‘It is a peculiar face,’ said Dorothea, looking closely. ‘Those deep gray eyes rather near together—and the delicate irregular nose with a sort of ripple in it—and all the powdered curls hanging backward. Altogether it seems to me peculiar rather than pretty. There is not even a family likeness between her and your mother.’
“这是一张奇怪的脸，”多萝西娅仔细观察说。 “那双深灰色的眼睛靠得很近——还有精致的不规则鼻子，里面有一种波纹——还有所有扑粉的卷发向后垂着。总而言之，我觉得它很奇怪，而不是漂亮。她和你母亲之间甚至没有任何家族相似之处。

‘No. And they were not alike in their lot.’
'不。他们的命运并不相似。

‘You did not mention her to me,’ said Dorothea.
“你没有向我提起过她，”多萝西娅说。

‘My aunt made an unfortunate marriage. I never saw her.’
“我姑姑的婚姻很不幸。我从来没有见过她。

Dorothea wondered a little, but felt that it would be indelicate just then to ask for any information which Mr. Casaubon did not proffer, and she turned to the window to admire the view. The sun had lately pierced the gray, and the avenue of limes cast shadows.
多萝西娅有些疑惑，但觉得此时询问卡苏邦先生没有提供的任何信息都是不礼貌的，于是她转向窗边欣赏风景。太阳刚刚刺破了灰色，石灰林荫道投下了阴影。

‘Shall we not walk in the garden now?’ said Dorothea.
“我们现在不去花园散步吗？”多萝西娅说。

‘And you would like to see the church, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘It is a droll little church. And the village. It all lies in a nut-shell. By the way, it will suit you, Dorothea; for the cottages are like a row of alms-houses—little gardens, gilly-flowers, that sort of thing.’
“你知道，你想看看教堂，”布鲁克先生说。 “这是一座滑稽的小教堂。还有村庄。简而言之。顺便说一句，它会适合你，多萝西娅；因为这些小屋就像一排济贫院——小花园，紫罗兰花，诸如此类的东西。

‘Yes, please,’ said Dorothea, looking at Mr. Casaubon, ‘I should like to see all that.’ She had got nothing from him more graphic about the Lowick cottages than that they were ‘not bad.’
“是的，拜托，”多萝西娅看着卡苏邦先生说，“我很想看看这一切。”她从他那里得到的关于洛伊克小屋的信息，除了“还不错”之外，没有什么比这更生动的了。

They were soon on a gravel walk which led chiefly between grassy borders and clumps of trees, this being the nearest way to the church, Mr. Casaubon said. At the little gate leading into the churchyard there was a pause while Mr. Casaubon went to the parsonage close by to fetch a key. Celia, who had been hanging a little in the rear, came up presently, when she saw that Mr. Casaubon was gone away, and said in her easy staccato, which always seemed to contradict the suspicion of any malicious intent—
卡苏邦先生说，他们很快就走上了一条碎石路，这条路主要通向草地边界和树丛，这是距离教堂最近的道路。在通向教堂墓地的小门前，卡苏邦先生停了下来，去附近的牧师住宅取钥匙。西莉亚一直在后面，当她看到卡苏邦先生走开时，她很快就走了过来，用她轻松的断断续续的语气说，这似乎总是与任何恶意的怀疑相矛盾——

‘Do you know, Dorothea, I saw some one quite young coming up one of the walks.’
“你知道吗，多萝西娅，我看到一个很年轻的人走上一条小路。”

‘Is that astonishing, Celia?’
“这很令人惊讶吗，西莉亚？”

‘There may be a young gardener, you know—why not?’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘I told Casaubon he should change his gardener.’
“可能有一个年轻的园丁，你知道——为什么不呢？”布鲁克先生说。 “我告诉卡苏邦他应该换掉他的园丁。”

‘No, not a gardener,’ said Celia; ‘a gentleman with a sketch-book. He had light-brown curls. I only saw his back. But he was quite young.’
“不，不是园丁，”西莉亚说。 “一位拿着素描本的绅士。他有一头浅棕色的卷发。我只看到了他的背影。但他还很年轻。

‘The curate’s son, perhaps,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘Ah, there is Casaubon again, and Tucker with him. He is going to introduce Tucker. You don’t know Tucker yet.’
“也许是牧师的儿子，”布鲁克先生说。 ‘啊，卡苏邦又来了，塔克也和他在一起。他要介绍塔克。你还不了解塔克。”

Mr. Tucker was the middle-aged curate, one of the ‘inferior clergy,’ who are usually not wanting in sons. But after the introduction, the conversation did not lead to any question about his family, and the startling apparition of youthfulness was forgotten by every one but Celia. She inwardly declined to believe that the light-brown curls and slim figure could have any relationship to Mr. Tucker, who was just as old and musty-looking as she would have expected Mr. Casaubon’s curate to be; doubtless an excellent man who would go to heaven (for Celia wished not to be unprincipled), but the corners of his mouth were so unpleasant. Celia thought with some dismalness of the time she should have to spend as bridesmaid at Lowick, while the curate had probably no pretty little children whom she could like, irrespective of principle.
塔克先生是一位中年牧师，属于“低等神职人员”之一，他们通常不想要儿子。但在介绍之后，谈话并没有引发任何有关他家庭的问题，除了西莉亚之外，所有人都忘记了那惊人的青春幻影。她内心拒绝相信浅棕色的卷发和苗条的身材与塔克先生有任何关系，塔克先生就像她想象的卡苏邦先生的副牧师一样苍老，看起来像发霉的样子；但塔克先生却像她想象的那样苍老而发霉。无疑是一个可以上天堂的优秀男人（因为西莉亚不希望自己变得毫无原则），但他的嘴角却是如此的令人不快。西莉亚有些沮丧地想，她应该在洛威克当伴娘，而牧师可能没有她可以喜欢的漂亮小孩，无论原则如何。

Mr. Tucker was invaluable in their walk; and perhaps Mr. Casaubon had not been without foresight on this head, the curate being able to answer all Dorothea’s questions about the villagers and the other parishioners. Everybody, he assured her, was well off in Lowick: not a cottager in those double cottages at a low rent but kept a pig, and the strips of garden at the back were well tended. The small boys wore excellent corduroy, the girls went out as tidy servants, or did a little straw-plaiting at home: no looms here, no Dissent; and though the public disposition was rather towards laying by money than towards spirituality, there was not much vice. The speckled fowls were so numerous that Mr. Brooke observed, ‘Your farmers leave some barley for the women to glean, I see. The poor folks here might have a fowl in their pot, as the good French king used to wish for all his people. The French eat a good many fowls—skinny fowls, you know.’
塔克先生在他们的步行中发挥了无价的作用。也许卡苏邦先生在这一点上并非没有先见之明，牧师能够回答多萝西娅关于村民和其他教区居民的所有问题。他向她保证，洛威克的每个人都过得很富裕：那些租金低廉的双层小屋里没有一个佃农，而是养了一头猪，后面的花园也保养得很好。小男孩穿着精美的灯芯绒，女孩们出去当整洁的仆人，或者在家里做一点草编：这里没有织布机，没有异议；虽然公众的倾向是靠金钱而不是精神信仰，但并没有太多的恶习。斑点禽数量如此之多，以至于布鲁克先生评论道：“我明白了，你们的农民留下了一些大麦让妇女们拾取。”这里的穷人可能有一只家禽在他们的锅里，正如善良的法国国王曾经希望他的全体人民一样。法国人吃很多家禽——瘦瘦的家禽，你知道的。

‘I think it was a very cheap wish of his,’ said Dorothea, indignantly. ‘Are kings such monsters that a wish like that must be reckoned a royal virtue?’
“我认为这是他的一个非常廉价的愿望，”多萝西娅愤怒地说。 “国王都是如此怪物吗，这样的愿望就必须被视为皇家美德吗？”

‘And if he wished them a skinny fowl,’ said Celia, ‘that would not be nice. But perhaps he wished them to have fat fowls.’
“如果他想要一只瘦鸡，”西莉亚说，“那就不好了。”但也许他希望他们养肥鸡。

‘Yes, but the word has dropped out of the text, or perhaps was subauditum; that is, present in the king’s mind, but not uttered,’ said Mr. Casaubon, smiling and bending his head towards Celia, who immediately dropped backward a little, because she could not bear Mr. Casaubon to blink at her.
“是的，但是这个词已经从文本中删除了，或者可能是 subauditum； “就是说，存在于国王的心里，但没有说出来。”卡苏邦先生微笑着向西莉亚低下头说道，西莉亚立即向后退了一点，因为她无法忍受卡苏邦先生对她眨眼。

Dorothea sank into silence on the way back to the house. She felt some disappointment, of which she was yet ashamed, that there was nothing for her to do in Lowick; and in the next few minutes her mind had glanced over the possibility, which she would have preferred, of finding that her home would be in a parish which had a larger share of the world’s misery, so that she might have had more active duties in it. Then, recurring to the future actually before her, she made a picture of more complete devotion to Mr. Casaubon’s aims in which she would await new duties. Many such might reveal themselves to the higher knowledge gained by her in that companionship.
多萝西娅在回家的路上陷入了沉默。她感到有些失望，但又感到羞愧，因为她在洛威克无事可做。在接下来的几分钟里，她的脑海里闪过一种可能性，她更愿意发现她的家将位于一个在世界上遭受更大苦难的教区，这样她就可以在生活中承担更积极的职责。它。然后，她回顾了眼前的未来，描绘了一幅更加全心全意地致力于卡苏邦先生的目标的画面，她将在其中等待新的职责。许多这样的人可能会在她的陪伴中获得更高的知识。

Mr. Tucker soon left them, having some clerical work which would not allow him to lunch at the Hall; and as they were re-entering the garden through the little gate, Mr. Casaubon said—
塔克先生很快就离开了他们，因为他有一些文书工作，不允许他在礼堂吃午饭。当他们从小门重新进入花园时，卡苏邦先生说——

‘You seem a little sad, Dorothea. I trust you are pleased with what you have seen.’
“你看起来有点悲伤，多萝西娅。”我相信您对所看到的感到满意。

‘I am feeling something which is perhaps foolish and wrong,’ answered Dorothea, with her usual openness—‘almost wishing that the people wanted more to be done for them here. I have known so few ways of making my life good for anything. Of course, my notions of usefulness must be narrow. I must learn new ways of helping people.’
“我的感觉也许是愚蠢和错误的，”多萝西娅以她一贯的开放态度回答道，“几乎希望这里的人们希望为他们做更多的事情。”我知道的让我的生活变得有益的方法太少了。当然，我对有用性的理解一定很狭隘。我必须学习帮助人们的新方法。

‘Doubtless,’ said Mr. Casaubon. ‘Each position has its corresponding duties. Yours, I trust, as the mistress of Lowick, will not leave any yearning unfulfilled.’
“毫无疑问，”卡苏邦先生说。 ‘每个岗位都有相应的职责。我相信，作为洛伊克的情妇，你的任何渴望都不会落空。

‘Indeed, I believe that,’ said Dorothea, earnestly. ‘Do not suppose that I am sad.’
“确实，我相信这一点，”多萝西娅认真地说。 “别以为我很伤心。”

‘That is well. But, if you are not tired, we will take another way to the house than that by which we came.’
‘那就好。但是，如果你不累的话，我们会走另一条路去房子，而不是我们来时走的路。”

Dorothea was not at all tired, and a little circuit was made towards a fine yew-tree, the chief hereditary glory of the grounds on this side of the house. As they approached it, a figure, conspicuous on a dark background of evergreens, was seated on a bench, sketching the old tree. Mr. Brooke, who was walking in front with Celia, turned his head, and said—
多萝西娅一点儿也不累，绕了一圈，朝一棵漂亮的紫杉树走去，这棵紫杉树是房子这一边土地上最世袭的荣耀。当他们走近那棵树时，在常青树的深色背景下，一个人影坐在长凳上，正在给这棵老树画草图。和塞莉亚走在前面的布鲁克先生转过头说道——

‘Who is that youngster, Casaubon?’
“卡苏朋，那个年轻人是谁？”

They had come very near when Mr. Casaubon answered—
当卡苏朋先生回答时，他们已经很近了——

‘That is a young relative of mine, a second cousin: the grandson, in fact,’ he added, looking at Dorothea, ‘of the lady whose portrait you have been noticing, my aunt Julia.’
“那是我的一个年轻亲戚，是我的远房表弟：事实上，他是我的朱莉娅姨妈的孙子，”他看着多萝西娅，补充道，“你一直在注意的那位女士的肖像，就是我的朱莉娅姨妈。”

The young man had laid down his sketch-book and risen. His bushy light-brown curls, as well as his youthfulness, identified him at once with Celia’s apparition.
年轻人放下素描本，站了起来。他浓密的浅棕色卷发，以及他的青春气息，让他立刻就认出了西莉亚的幽灵。

‘Dorothea, let me introduce to you my cousin, Mr. Ladislaw. Will, this is Miss Brooke.’
“多萝西娅，让我向您介绍我的表弟，拉迪斯瓦先生。威尔，这是布鲁克小姐。

The cousin was so close now, that, when he lifted his hat, Dorothea could see a pair of gray eves rather near together, a delicate irregular nose with a little ripple in it, and hair falling backward; but there was a mouth and chin of a more prominent, threatening aspect than belonged to the type of the grandmother’s miniature. Young Ladislaw did not feel it necessary to smile, as if he were charmed with this introduction to his future second cousin and her relatives; but wore rather a pouting air of discontent.
表弟现在离得如此之近，当他举起帽子时，多萝西娅可以看到一对灰色的眼珠靠得很近，一个精致的不规则鼻子，上面有一点波纹，头发向后垂落；但他的嘴和下巴比祖母的微型模型更加突出，更具威胁性。年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫觉得没有必要微笑，仿佛他被这次介绍给他未来的表弟和她的亲戚迷住了；但脸上却带着不满的撅嘴表情。

‘You are an artist, I see,’ said Mr. Brooke, taking up the sketch-book and turning it over in his unceremonious fashion.
“我明白了，你是一位艺术家。”布鲁克先生说着，拿起素描本，毫不客气地翻过来。

‘No, I only sketch a little. There is nothing fit to be seen there,’ said young Ladislaw, coloring, perhaps with temper rather than modesty.
“不，我只是画了一点草图。那里没什么好看的。”年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫脸色涨红，也许是因为脾气而不是谦虚。

‘Oh, come, this is a nice bit, now. I did a little in this way myself at one time, you know. Look here, now; this is what I call a nice thing, done with what we used to call BRIO.’ Mr. Brooke held out towards the two girls a large colored sketch of stony ground and trees, with a pool.
‘哦，来吧，现在这很好。你知道，我自己也曾经做过一点这样的事。现在看这里；这就是我所说的一件好事，用我们过去称之为 BRIO 的东西完成的。布鲁克先​​生向两个女孩递出一幅巨大的彩色素描，上面有石地和树木，还有一个游泳池。

‘I am no judge of these things,’ said Dorothea, not coldly, but with an eager deprecation of the appeal to her. ‘You know, uncle, I never see the beauty of those pictures which you say are so much praised. They are a language I do not understand. I suppose there is some relation between pictures and nature which I am too ignorant to feel—just as you see what a Greek sentence stands for which means nothing to me.’ Dorothea looked up at Mr. Casaubon, who bowed his head towards her, while Mr. Brooke said, smiling nonchalantly—
“我无法判断这些事情，”多萝西娅说道，语气并不冷漠，而是对她的呼吁表示强烈反对。 “你知道吗，叔叔，我从来没有见过你所说的那些受到如此称赞的照片的美丽。它们是我听不懂的语言。我想图画和自然之间有某种关系，但我无知到无法感觉到——就像你看到的希腊句子代表什么，但对我来说毫无意义。”多萝西娅抬头看着卡苏邦先生，他向她低下头，说道：布鲁克先生若无其事地微笑着说道——

‘Bless me, now, how different people are! But you had a bad style of teaching, you know—else this is just the thing for girls—sketching, fine art and so on. But you took to drawing plans; you don’t understand morbidezza, and that kind of thing. You will come to my house, I hope, and I will show you what I did in this way,’ he continued, turning to young Ladislaw, who had to be recalled from his preoccupation in observing Dorothea. Ladislaw had made up his mind that she must be an unpleasant girl, since she was going to marry Casaubon, and what she said of her stupidity about pictures would have confirmed that opinion even if he had believed her. As it was, he took her words for a covert judgment, and was certain that she thought his sketch detestable. There was too much cleverness in her apology: she was laughing both at her uncle and himself. But what a voice! It was like the voice of a soul that had once lived in an AEolian harp. This must be one of Nature’s inconsistencies. There could be no sort of passion in a girl who would marry Casaubon. But he turned from her, and bowed his thanks for Mr. Brooke’s invitation.
‘上帝保佑我，现在，人是多么不同啊！但你的教学风格很糟糕，你知道——否则这只是女孩的事情——素描、美术等等。但你开始绘制计划；你不明白morbidezza之类的东西。我希望你能来我家，我会向你展示我用这种方式做了什么，”他继续说道，转向年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫，他必须从全神贯注于观察多萝西娅的状态中恢复过来。拉迪斯瓦夫认定她一定是个不讨人喜欢的女孩，因为她要嫁给卡苏朋，而她所说的关于照片的愚蠢行为也会证实这个观点，即使他相信她。事实上，他把她的话当作一种隐秘的判断，并且确信她认为他的素描令人厌恶。她的道歉实在是太聪明了：她既是在嘲笑她的叔叔，又是在嘲笑他自己。但这是怎样的声音啊！这就像曾经生活在风琴竖琴中的灵魂的声音。这一定是大自然的矛盾之一。嫁给卡苏朋的女孩不可能有任何热情。但他转过身去，对布鲁克先生的邀请表示感谢。

‘We will turn over my Italian engravings together,’ continued that good-natured man. ‘I have no end of those things, that I have laid by for years. One gets rusty in this part of the country, you know. Not you, Casaubon; you stick to your studies; but my best ideas get undermost—out of use, you know. You clever young men must guard against indolence. I was too indolent, you know: else I might have been anywhere at one time.’
“我们会一起交出我的意大利版画，”那个好心人继续说道。 “那些我已经搁置多年的东西，我拿不完。”你知道，在这个国家的这一地区，人会生锈。不是你，卡索邦；你坚持你的学业；但你知道，我最好的想法却被埋在了底下——无法使用。你们聪明的年轻人一定要提防懒惰。你知道，我太懒惰了：否则我可能曾经去过任何地方。

‘That is a seasonable admonition,’ said Mr. Casaubon; ‘but now we will pass on to the house, lest the young ladies should be tired of standing.’
“这是一个及时的警告，”卡苏邦先生说。 “不过现在我们要进屋了，免得年轻的女士们站得太累了。”

When their backs were turned, young Ladislaw sat down to go on with his sketching, and as he did so his face broke into an expression of amusement which increased as he went on drawing, till at last he threw back his head and laughed aloud. Partly it was the reception of his own artistic production that tickled him; partly the notion of his grave cousin as the lover of that girl; and partly Mr. Brooke’s definition of the place he might have held but for the impediment of indolence. Mr. Will Ladislaw’s sense of the ludicrous lit up his features very agreeably: it was the pure enjoyment of comicality, and had no mixture of sneering and self-exaltation.
当他们转过身来时，年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫坐下来继续画画，当他这样做时，他的脸上突然露出一种有趣的表情，随着他继续画画，这种表情越来越多，直到最后他仰起头，大声笑起来。部分原因是他自己的艺术作品受到了欢迎，这让他感到高兴。部分是因为他的表弟是那个女孩的情人；部分是布鲁克先生对如果没有懒惰的阻碍他可能占据的地位的定义。威尔·拉迪斯瓦先生的滑稽感使他的面容显得非常讨人喜欢：这是纯粹的滑稽享受，没有任何嘲讽和自我抬高的成分。

‘What is your nephew going to do with himself, Casaubon?’ said Mr. Brooke, as they went on.
“卡苏朋，你的侄子打算怎么办？”他们继续前行时，布鲁克先生问道。

‘My cousin, you mean—not my nephew.’
“你是说我的表弟——不是我的侄子。”

‘Yes, yes, cousin. But in the way of a career, you know.’
‘是的，是的，表弟。但从职业生涯的角度来看，你知道。”

‘The answer to that question is painfully doubtful. On leaving Rugby he declined to go to an English university, where I would gladly have placed him, and chose what I must consider the anomalous course of studying at Heidelberg. And now he wants to go abroad again, without any special object, save the vague purpose of what he calls culture, preparation for he knows not what. He declines to choose a profession.’
‘这个问题的答案令人痛苦地令人怀疑。离开拉格比时，他拒绝去一所英国大学（我很乐意把他安排在那里），并选择了我必须认为是在海德堡学习的异常课程。现在他想再次出国，没有任何特殊目的，只是为了他所谓的文化的模糊目的，为他不知道的东西做准备。他拒绝选择职业。

‘He has no means but what you furnish, I suppose.’
“我想，除了你提供的东西之外，他别无他法。”

‘I have always given him and his friends reason to understand that I would furnish in moderation what was necessary for providing him with a scholarly education, and launching him respectably. I am-therefore bound to fulfil the expectation so raised,’ said Mr. Casaubon, putting his conduct in the light of mere rectitude: a trait of delicacy which Dorothea noticed with admiration.
“我一直让他和他的朋友们有理由理解，我会适度地提供必要的东西，为他提供学术教育，并让他受人尊敬。因此，我有义务满足所提出的期望。”卡苏邦先生说，他的行为纯粹是出于正直：多萝西娅钦佩地注意到了这种微妙的特质。

‘He has a thirst for travelling; perhaps he may turn out a Bruce or a Mungo Park,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘I had a notion of that myself at one time.’
“他渴望旅行；也许他可能会成为布鲁斯或蒙戈帕克，”布鲁克先生说。 “我自己曾经也有过这样的想法。”

‘No, he has no bent towards exploration, or the enlargement of our geognosis: that would be a special purpose which I could recognize with some approbation, though without felicitating him on a career which so often ends in premature and violent death. But so far is he from having any desire for a more accurate knowledge of the earth’s surface, that he said he should prefer not to know the sources of the Nile, and that there should be some unknown regions preserved as hunting grounds for the poetic imagination.’
“不，他无意于探索，或扩大我们的地理认知：这将是一个特殊的目的，我可以认可地承认这一点，尽管我不会祝贺他的职业生涯常常以过早和暴力结束。但到目前为止，他根本没有渴望更准确地了解地球表面，他说他宁愿不知道尼罗河的源头，并且应该保留一些未知的地区作为诗意想象的狩猎场.'

‘Well, there is something in that, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, who had certainly an impartial mind.
“嗯，你知道，这里面有一些东西，”布鲁克先生说，他的头脑确实很公正。

‘It is, I fear, nothing more than a part of his general inaccuracy and indisposition to thoroughness of all kinds, which would be a bad augury for him in any profession, civil or sacred, even were he so far submissive to ordinary rule as to choose one.’
“我担心，这只不过是他在各种方面普遍不准确和不彻底的一部分，这对他在任何职业中都是一个不好的预兆，无论是民事还是神圣的，即使他到目前为止服从普通规则选择一个。

‘Perhaps he has conscientious scruples founded on his own unfitness,’ said Dorothea, who was interesting herself in finding a favorable explanation. ‘Because the law and medicine should be very serious professions to undertake, should they not? People’s lives and fortunes depend on them.’
多萝西娅说：“也许他因自己的身体状况不佳而产生了良心上的顾虑。”她自己也很想找到一个有利的解释。 “因为法律和医学应该是非常严肃的职业，不是吗？人们的生命和财富取决于他们。

‘Doubtless; but I fear that my young relative Will Ladislaw is chiefly determined in his aversion to these callings by a dislike to steady application, and to that kind of acquirement which is needful instrumentally, but is not charming or immediately inviting to self-indulgent taste. I have insisted to him on what Aristotle has stated with admirable brevity, that for the achievement of any work regarded as an end there must be a prior exercise of many energies or acquired facilities of a secondary order, demanding patience. I have pointed to my own manuscript volumes, which represent the toil of years preparatory to a work not yet accomplished. But in vain. To careful reasoning of this kind he replies by calling himself Pegasus, and every form of prescribed work ‘harness.’’
‘毫无疑问；但我担心我年轻的亲戚威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫对这些职业的厌恶主要是因为他不喜欢稳定的应用，也不喜欢那种在工具上必要的、但不迷人或立即引起自我放纵品味的学习。我向他坚持亚里士多德简洁得令人钦佩的说法，即为了完成任何被视为目的的工作，必须事先运用许多精力或获得次要的设施，需要耐心。我已经指出了我自己的手稿卷，它们代表了为尚未完成的工作准备的多年辛劳。但徒劳无功。对于这种仔细的推理，他称自己为珀伽索斯，并将每一种规定的工作形式称为“马具”。

Celia laughed. She was surprised to find that Mr. Casaubon could say something quite amusing.
西莉亚笑了。她惊讶地发现卡苏邦先生竟然能说出一些很有趣的话。

‘Well, you know, he may turn out a Byron, a Chatterton, a Churchill—that sort of thing—there’s no telling,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘Shall you let him go to Italy, or wherever else he wants to go?’
“嗯，你知道，他可能会成为拜伦、查特顿、丘吉尔——诸如此类的人——谁也说不准，”布鲁克先生说。 “你能让他去意大利，或者他想去的其他地方吗？”

‘Yes; I have agreed to furnish him with moderate supplies for a year or so; he asks no more. I shall let him be tried by the test of freedom.’
'是的;我已同意为他提供一年左右的适度物资；他不再问了。我会让他接受自由的考验。

‘That is very kind of you,’ said Dorothea, looking up at Mr. Casaubon with delight. ‘It is noble. After all, people may really have in them some vocation which is not quite plain to themselves, may they not? They may seem idle and weak because they are growing. We should be very patient with each other, I think.’
“你真是太好了，”多萝西娅说道，高兴地抬头看着卡苏邦先生。 ‘这是高贵的。毕竟，人们可能确实有一些自己不太清楚的职业，不是吗？他们可能看起来无所事事、软弱，因为他们正在成长。我认为我们应该对彼此非常耐心。

‘I suppose it is being engaged to be married that has made you think patience good,’ said Celia, as soon as she and Dorothea were alone together, taking off their wrappings.
“我想是订婚了才让你认为耐心是好的，”西莉亚和多萝西娅单独在一起后，脱掉裹尸布说道。

‘You mean that I am very impatient, Celia.’
“你的意思是我很不耐烦，西莉亚。”

‘Yes; when people don’t do and say just what you like.’ Celia had become less afraid of ‘saying things’ to Dorothea since this engagement: cleverness seemed to her more pitiable than ever.
'是的;自从订婚以来，西莉亚不再那么害怕向多萝西娅“说话”：聪明对她来说似乎比以往任何时候都更可怜。

CHAPTER X
第十章

‘He had catched a great cold, had he had no other clothes to wear than the skin of a bear not yet killed.’—FULLER.
“如果他除了尚未杀死的熊皮之外没有其他衣服可穿，他就得了重感冒。”——富勒。

Young Ladislaw did not pay that visit to which Mr. Brooke had invited him, and only six days afterwards Mr. Casaubon mentioned that his young relative had started for the Continent, seeming by this cold vagueness to waive inquiry. Indeed, Will had declined to fix on any more precise destination than the entire area of Europe. Genius, he held, is necessarily intolerant of fetters: on the one hand it must have the utmost play for its spontaneity; on the other, it may confidently await those messages from the universe which summon it to its peculiar work, only placing itself in an attitude of receptivity towards all sublime chances. The attitudes of receptivity are various, and Will had sincerely tried many of them. He was not excessively fond of wine, but he had several times taken too much, simply as an experiment in that form of ecstasy; he had fasted till he was faint, and then supped on lobster; he had made himself ill with doses of opium. Nothing greatly original had resulted from these measures; and the effects of the opium had convinced him that there was an entire dissimilarity between his constitution and De Quincey’s. The superadded circumstance which would evolve the genius had not yet come; the universe had not yet beckoned. Even Caesar’s fortune at one time was, but a grand presentiment. We know what a masquerade all development is, and what effective shapes may be disguised in helpless embryos.—In fact, the world is full of hopeful analogies and handsome dubious eggs called possibilities. Will saw clearly enough the pitiable instances of long incubation producing no chick, and but for gratitude would have laughed at Casaubon, whose plodding application, rows of note-books, and small taper of learned theory exploring the tossed ruins of the world, seemed to enforce a moral entirely encouraging to Will’s generous reliance on the intentions of the universe with regard to himself. He held that reliance to be a mark of genius; and certainly it is no mark to the contrary; genius consisting neither in self-conceit nor in humility, but in a power to make or do, not anything in general, but something in particular. Let him start for the Continent, then, without our pronouncing on his future. Among all forms of mistake, prophecy is the most gratuitous.
年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫没有参加布鲁克先生邀请他去的那次访问，仅仅六天后，卡苏邦先生就提到他年轻的亲戚已经动身前往欧洲大陆，这种冷漠的含糊似乎是放弃询问。事实上，威尔拒绝指定比整个欧洲地区更精确的目的地。他认为，天才必然不能容忍束缚：一方面，它必须最大限度地发挥其自发性；另一方面，它必须最大限度地发挥其自发性。另一方面，它可能满怀信心地等待来自宇宙的信息，召唤它从事其特殊的工作，只是将自己置于一种接受所有崇高机会的态度。接受的态度多种多样，威尔真诚地尝试过其中的许多种。他并不太喜欢喝酒，但有好几次他喝得太多，只是为了尝试那种狂喜的感觉。他禁食直到他晕倒，然后吃龙虾作为晚餐。他因吸食鸦片而生病。这些措施并没有产生任何重大的原创性成果。鸦片的作用使他确信自己的体质与德·昆西的体质完全不同。培养天才的额外环境还没有到来；宇宙还没有向我们招手。就连凯撒的财富也曾一度只是一种宏伟的预感。我们知道所有的发育都是一场伪装，也知道在无助的胚胎中可能会伪装出什么样的有效形状。——事实上，世界充满了充满希望的类比和被称为可能性的漂亮可疑的鸡蛋。 威尔清楚地看到了长时间孵化没有孵出小鸡的可怜例子，如果没有感激之情，他会嘲笑卡索邦，他的缓慢的应用、成排的笔记本和探索世界废墟的小锥度学习理论，似乎强制执行一种完全鼓励威尔慷慨地依赖宇宙对自己的意图的道德。他认为这种依赖是天才的标志。当然，这并不意味着相反；天才既不在于自负，也不在于谦逊，而在于创造或做某件事的能力，不是一般的事情，而是特定的事情。那么，就让他出发前往欧洲大陆吧，我们无需对他的未来发表评论。在所有形式的错误中，预言是最无端的。

But at present this caution against a too hasty judgment interests me more in relation to Mr. Casaubon than to his young cousin. If to Dorothea Mr. Casaubon had been the mere occasion which had set alight the fine inflammable material of her youthful illusions, does it follow that he was fairly represented in the minds of those less impassioned personages who have hitherto delivered their judgments concerning him? I protest against any absolute conclusion, any prejudice derived from Mrs. Cadwallader’s contempt for a neighboring clergyman’s alleged greatness of soul, or Sir James Chettam’s poor opinion of his rival’s legs,—from Mr. Brooke’s failure to elicit a companion’s ideas, or from Celia’s criticism of a middle-aged scholar’s personal appearance. I am not sure that the greatest man of his age, if ever that solitary superlative existed, could escape these unfavorable reflections of himself in various small mirrors; and even Milton, looking for his portrait in a spoon, must submit to have the facial angle of a bumpkin. Moreover, if Mr. Casaubon, speaking for himself, has rather a chilling rhetoric, it is not therefore certain that there is no good work or fine feeling in him. Did not an immortal physicist and interpreter of hieroglyphs write detestable verses? Has the theory of the solar system been advanced by graceful manners and conversational tact? Suppose we turn from outside estimates of a man, to wonder, with keener interest, what is the report of his own consciousness about his doings or capacity: with what hindrances he is carrying on his daily labors; what fading of hopes, or what deeper fixity of self-delusion the years are marking off within him; and with what spirit he wrestles against universal pressure, which will one day be too heavy for him, and bring his heart to its final pause. Doubtless his lot is important in his own eyes; and the chief reason that we think he asks too large a place in our consideration must be our want of room for him, since we refer him to the Divine regard with perfect confidence; nay, it is even held sublime for our neighbor to expect the utmost there, however little he may have got from us. Mr. Casaubon, too, was the centre of his own world; if he was liable to think that others were providentially made for him, and especially to consider them in the light of their fitness for the author of a ‘Key to all Mythologies,’ this trait is not quite alien to us, and, like the other mendicant hopes of mortals, claims some of our pity.
但目前，我对卡苏邦先生的谨慎态度比对他年轻表弟的关系更感兴趣。如果对多萝西娅来说，卡苏邦先生仅仅是点燃了她年轻时的幻想中的美好易燃材料的一个事件，那么是否就可以推断，他在那些迄今为止对他发表过评价的那些不那么热情的人物的心目中得到了公平的代表呢？我反对任何绝对的结论，任何偏见源于卡德瓦拉德夫人对邻近牧师所谓的灵魂伟大的蔑视，或者詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士对他对手的腿的糟糕评价，布鲁克先生未能引出同伴的想法，或者西莉亚的观点对中年学者个人仪表的批评。我不确定他这个时代最伟大的人，如果存在这种孤独的最高级的话，是否能够摆脱这些在各种小镜子中不利的自己的倒影；就连弥尔顿，在勺子里寻找自己的肖像时，也必须屈服于土包子的面部角度。而且，如果卡苏邦先生为自己说话，言辞相当令人不寒而栗，那么也不能肯定他没有什么好的工作或良好的感觉。一位不朽的物理学家和象形文字的解释者不是写过可憎的诗句吗？太阳系理论是否通过优雅的举止和谈话技巧得到了推进？ 假设我们不再对一个人进行外部评价，而是怀着更强烈的兴趣想知道他自己的意识对他的行为或能力有什么报告：他在进行日常工作时遇到了哪些障碍；他在工作中遇到了哪些障碍？岁月在他内心留下了怎样的希望的破灭，或者是怎样更深层次的自欺欺人的固定？他以何种精神与普遍的压力作斗争，有一天，这种压力对他来说太沉重了，使他的心陷入最后的停顿。毫无疑问，在他自己看来，他的命运很重要。我们认为他在我们的考虑中占据了太大的位置，主要原因一定是我们缺乏给他的空间，因为我们完全有信心将他引向神圣的关注。不仅如此，即使我们的邻居从我们那里得到的很少，但他仍能在那里得到最大的期望，这甚至是崇高的。卡苏邦先生也是他自己世界的中心。如果他容易认为其他人是天意为他而生，特别是根据他们是否适合《所有神话的钥匙》的作者来考虑他们，那么这种特征对我们来说并不完全陌生，而且，就像凡人的其他托钵希望，需要我们的一些怜悯。

Certainly this affair of his marriage with Miss Brooke touched him more nearly than it did any one of the persons who have hitherto shown their disapproval of it, and in the present stage of things I feel more tenderly towards his experience of success than towards the disappointment of the amiable Sir James. For in truth, as the day fixed for his marriage came nearer, Mr. Casaubon did not find his spirits rising; nor did the contemplation of that matrimonial garden scene, where, as all experience showed, the path was to be bordered with flowers, prove persistently more enchanting bo him than the accustomed vaults where he walked taper in hand. He did not confess to himself, still less could he have breathed to another, his surprise that though he had won a lovely and noble-hearted girl he had not won delight,—which he had also regarded as an object to be found by search. It is true that he knew all the classical passages implying the contrary; but knowing classical passages, we find, is a mode of motion, which explains why they leave so little extra force for their personal application.
当然，他与布鲁克小姐的婚姻这件事对他的触动比迄今为止任何一个对此表示反对的人都更加触动，在目前的阶段，我对他的成功经历比对他的失望感到更加温柔。和蔼可亲的詹姆斯爵士。事实上，随着结婚日子的临近，卡苏邦先生并没有发现自己的情绪高涨。对他来说，对婚姻花园场景的沉思，正如所有经验所表明的那样，那里的小路将被鲜花所包围，但对他来说，这并不比他习惯的拱顶，在那里他手里拿着细小的东西行走更迷人。他自己都没有承认，更不可能向别人吐露，他惊讶地发现自己虽然赢得了一位可爱而高尚的姑娘，但却没有赢得喜悦——他也把喜悦当作了一个寻找的对象。 。确实，他知道所有暗示相反含义的经典段落。但我们发现，了解经典段落是一种运动模式，这解释了为什么他们为个人应用留下的额外力量如此之少。

Poor Mr. Casaubon had imagined that his long studious bachelorhood had stored up for him a compound interest of enjoyment, and that large drafts on his affections would not fail to be honored; for we all of us, grave or light, get our thoughts entangled in metaphors, and act fatally on the strength of them. And now he was in danger of being saddened by the very conviction that his circumstances were unusually happy: there was nothing external by which he could account for a certain blankness of sensibility which came over him just when his expectant gladness should have been most lively, just when he exchanged the accustomed dulness of his Lowick library for his visits to the Grange. Here was a weary experience in which he was as utterly condemned to loneliness as in the despair which sometimes threatened him while toiling in the morass of authorship without seeming nearer to the goal. And his was that worst loneliness which would shrink from sympathy. He could not but wish that Dorothea should think him not less happy than the world would expect her successful suitor to be; and in relation to his authorship he leaned on her young trust and veneration, he liked to draw forth her fresh interest in listening, as a means of encouragement to himself: in talking to her he presented all his performance and intention with the reflected confidence of the pedagogue, and rid himself for the time of that chilling ideal audience which crowded his laborious uncreative hours with the vaporous pressure of Tartarean shades.
可怜的卡苏邦先生原以为，他长期勤奋的单身生活为他积累了复利的享受，而他的感情的大笔汇票一定会得到兑现。因为我们所有人，无论是严肃的还是轻松的，都会让我们的思想陷入隐喻之中，并依靠隐喻的力量采取致命的行动。现在，他正面临着因确信自己的处境异常幸福而感到悲伤的危险：没有任何外在因素可以解释他的某种情感空白，而就在他期待的快乐应该是最活跃的时候，这种情感的空白出现在他身上，就在他离开洛威克图书馆习惯性的沉闷，转而参观农庄的时候。这是一次令人厌倦的经历，在这种经历中，他完全注定要陷入孤独和绝望之中，这种绝望有时会威胁到他，而他在作家的泥沼中辛勤劳作，却似乎距离目标还没有更近。他的孤独是最严重的，他会因同情而退缩。他不得不希望多萝西娅认为他的幸福程度不亚于世人对她成功的追求者的期望。就他的作者身份而言，他依靠她年轻时的信任和尊敬，他喜欢激发她对倾听的新兴趣，以此作为对自己的鼓励：在与她交谈时，他以一种反射出的自信来呈现他的所有表演和意图。教师，摆脱那个令人毛骨悚然的理想观众的时代，这些观众使他辛苦而缺乏创造力的时间充满了鞑靼阴影的蒸汽压力。

For to Dorothea, after that toy-box history of the world adapted to young ladies which had made the chief part of her education, Mr. Casaubon’s talk about his great book was full of new vistas; and this sense of revelation, this surprise of a nearer introduction to Stoics and Alexandrians, as people who had ideas not totally unlike her own, kept in abeyance for the time her usual eagerness for a binding theory which could bring her own life and doctrine into strict connection with that amazing past, and give the remotest sources of knowledge some bearing on her actions. That more complete teaching would come—Mr. Casaubon would tell her all that: she was looking forward to higher initiation in ideas, as she was looking forward to marriage, and blending her dim conceptions of both. It would be a great mistake to suppose that Dorothea would have cared about any share in Mr. Casaubon’s learning as mere accomplishment; for though opinion in the neighborhood of Freshitt and Tipton had pronounced her clever, that epithet would not have described her to circles in whose more precise vocabulary cleverness implies mere aptitude for knowing and doing, apart from character. All her eagerness for acquirement lay within that full current of sympathetic motive in which her ideas and impulses were habitually swept along. She did not want to deck herself with knowledge—to wear it loose from the nerves and blood that fed her action; and if she had written a book she must have done it as Saint Theresa did, under the command of an authority that constrained her conscience. But something she yearned for by which her life might be filled with action at once rational and ardent; and since the time was gone by for guiding visions and spiritual directors, since prayer heightened yearning but not instruction, what lamp was there but knowledge? Surely learned men kept-the only oil; and who more learned than Mr. Casaubon?
对于多萝西娅来说，在《玩具盒世界史》适应了年轻女士们的需求（这已成为她教育的主要部分）之后，卡苏邦先生谈论他的伟大著作充满了新的前景。这种启示感，这种对斯多葛学派和亚历山大学派的更深入介绍的惊喜，因为这些人的思想与她自己的思想并不完全不同，她暂时搁置了她通常对一种有约束力的理论的渴望，这种理论可以将她自己的生活和学说带入现实。与那段令人惊奇的过去有着严格的联系，并使最遥远的知识来源对她的行为产生一些影响。更完整的教学即将到来——先生。卡索邦会告诉她这一切：她期待着更高层次的思想启蒙，就像她期待着婚姻一样，并将她对两者的模糊概念融合在一起。如果认为多萝西娅会把卡苏邦先生的学习中的任何份额视为纯粹的成就，那就大错特错了。因为尽管弗雷希特和蒂普顿周围的人都认为她很聪明，但这个绰号不会向圈子里描述她，在他们的圈子里，更精确的词汇“聪明”仅仅意味着除了性格之外的认知和行动能力。她所有对成就的渴望都源于同情心的流动，她的想法和冲动习惯性地被这种流动所影响。她不想用知识来装饰自己——让知识从支撑她行动的神经和血液中消失；她不想用知识来装饰自己。如果她写了一本书，她一定是像圣特蕾莎那样，在约束她良心的权威的指挥下完成的。 但她渴望某种东西，让她的生活充满理性和热情的行动；既然指导异象和精神导师的时代已经过去，既然祈祷增强了渴望而不是指导，那么除了知识还有什么灯呢？当然，有学识的人保留了唯一的油；还有谁比卡苏邦先生更有学识呢？

Thus in these brief weeks Dorothea’s joyous grateful expectation was unbroken, and however her lover might occasionally be conscious of flatness, he could never refer it to any slackening of her affectionate interest.
因此，在这短短的几个星期里，多萝西娅的喜悦和感激的期待从未间断过，无论她的爱人偶尔会意识到自己的平淡，他永远不能将其归咎于她对她的感情有任何减弱。

The season was mild enough to encourage the project of extending the wedding journey as far as Rome, and Mr. Casaubon was anxious for this because he wished to inspect some manuscripts in the Vatican.
季节温和，足以鼓励将婚礼行程延长至罗马的计划，而卡苏邦先生对此很着急，因为他希望在梵蒂冈检查一些手稿。

‘I still regret that your sister is not to accompany us,’ he said one morning, some time after it had been ascertained that Celia objected to go, and that Dorothea did not wish for her companionship. ‘You will have many lonely hours, Dorotheas, for I shall be constrained to make the utmost use of my time during our stay in Rome, and I should feel more at liberty if you had a companion.’
“我仍然很遗憾你的妹妹没有陪我们一起去，”一天早上，在确定西莉亚反对去、多萝西娅也不希望她陪伴之后一段时间，他说道。 “多萝西娅，你将会度过很多孤独的时光，因为在罗马逗留期间我将不得不充分利用我的时间，如果你有一个同伴，我会感到更自由。”

The words ‘I should feel more at liberty’ grated on Dorothea. For the first time in speaking to Mr. Casaubon she colored from annoyance.
“我应该感到更自由”这句话让多萝西娅很恼火。在与卡苏邦先生交谈时，她第一次因为恼怒而脸色红了。

‘You must have misunderstood me very much,’ she said, ‘if you think I should not enter into the value of your time—if you think that I should not willingly give up whatever interfered with your using it to the best purpose.’
“如果你认为我不应该考虑你时间的价值，如果你认为我不应该心甘情愿地放弃任何妨碍你充分利用时间的东西，你一定是非常误解我了。”她说。

‘That is very amiable in you, my dear Dorothea,’ said Mr. Casaubon, not in the least noticing that she was hurt; ‘but if you had a lady as your companion, I could put you both under the care of a cicerone, and we could thus achieve two purposes in the same space of time.’
“你真是太和蔼可亲了，我亲爱的多萝西娅，”卡苏朋先生说道，丝毫没有注意到她受伤了。 “但如果你有一位女士作为你的伴侣，我可以把你们俩都交给一位守护者照顾，这样我们就可以在同一时间里达到两个目的。”

‘I beg you will not refer to this again,’ said Dorothea, rather haughtily. But immediately she feared that she was wrong, and turning towards him she laid her hand on his, adding in a different tone, ‘Pray do not be anxious about me. I shall have so much to think of when I am alone. And Tantripp will be a sufficient companion, just to take care of me. I could not bear to have Celia: she would be miserable.’
“我求你不要再提这件事了，”多萝西娅相当傲慢地说。但她立刻担心自己错了，转过身来，将手放在他的手上，用不同的语气补充道：“请不要为我担心。”当我一个人的时候，我会有很多事情要想。坦特里普将是一个足够的陪伴，只是为了照顾我。我无法忍受拥有西莉亚：她会很痛苦。

It was time to dress. There was to be a dinner-party that day, the last of the parties which were held at the Grange as proper preliminaries to the wedding, and Dorothea was glad of a reason for moving away at once on the sound of the bell, as if she needed more than her usual amount of preparation. She was ashamed of being irritated from some cause she could not define even to herse1f; for though she had no intention to be untruthful, her reply had not touched the real hurt within her. Mr. Casaubon’s words had been quite reasonable, yet they had brought a vague instantaneous sense of aloofness on his part.
是时候穿衣服了。那天要举行一场晚宴，这是在农庄举行的最后一场晚宴，作为婚礼的适当准备，多萝西娅很高兴有理由在钟声响起时立即搬走，仿佛她需要比平时更多的准备。她为自己因为某种连她自己都无法确定的原因而感到恼怒而感到羞愧。因为虽然她无意说谎，但她的回答并没有触及她内心真正的伤害。卡苏邦先生说的很有道理，但他却瞬间有一种隐隐约约的冷漠感。

‘Surely I am in a strangely selfish weak state of mind,’ she said to herself. ‘How can I have a husband who is so much above me without knowing that he needs me less than I need him?’
“我确实处于一种奇怪的自私脆弱的心态，”她对自己说。 “我怎么能拥有一个比我地位高得多的丈夫，却不知道他对我的需要并不如我对他的需要呢？”

Having convinced herself that Mr. Casaubon was altogether right, she recovered her equanimity, and was an agreeable image of serene dignity when she came into the drawing-room in her silver-gray dress—the simple lines of her dark-brown hair parted over her brow and coiled massively behind, in keeping with the entire absence from her manner and expression of all search after mere effect. Sometimes when Dorothea was in company, there seemed to be as complete an air of repose about her as if she had been a picture of Santa Barbara looking out from her tower into the clear air; but these intervals of quietude made the energy of her speech and emotion the more remarked when some outward appeal had touched her.
当她确信卡苏朋先生完全正确后，她恢复了平静，当她穿着银灰色的裙子走进客厅时，她的形象是一种平静、尊严的令人愉快的形象——她深棕色头发的简单线条分开了。她的眉毛高高地盘在身后，这与她的举止和表情完全不追求任何效果相一致。有时，当多萝西娅在身边时，她身上似乎有一种完全宁静的气氛，仿佛她是一幅圣巴巴拉的照片，从她的塔楼望向晴朗的空气。但是，当某些外在的吸引力触动她时，这些安静的间歇使她的言语和情感的能量更加明显。

She was naturally the subject of many observations this evening, for the dinner-party was large and rather more miscellaneous as to the male portion than any which had been held at the Grange since Mr. Brooke’s nieces had resided with him, so that the talking was done in duos and trios more or less inharmonious. There was the newly elected mayor of Middlemarch, who happened to be a manufacturer; the philanthropic banker his brother-in-law, who predominated so much in the town that some called him a Methodist, others a hypocrite, according to the resources of their vocabulary; and there were various professional men. In fact, Mrs. Cadwallader said that Brooke was beginning to treat the Middlemarchers, and that she preferred the farmers at the tithe-dinner, who drank her health unpretentiously, and were not ashamed of their grandfathers’ furniture. For in that part of the country, before reform had done its notable part in developing the political consciousness, there was a clearer distinction of ranks and a dimmer distinction of parties; so that Mr. Brooke’s miscellaneous invitations seemed to belong to that general laxity which came from his inordinate travel and habit of taking too much in the form of ideas.
今晚她自然成为许多人关注的对象，因为这次晚宴规模很大，而且与布鲁克先生的侄女们和他住在一起以来在农庄举行的任何一次晚宴相比，男性部分更加杂乱，因此谈话的人二重奏和三重奏或多或少不和谐。新当选的米德尔马奇市长，恰好是一名制造商。他的妹夫是一位慈善银行家，他在镇上占据了主导地位，以至于有些人称他为卫理公会教徒，另一些人则称他为伪君子，根据他们的词汇量。还有各种各样的职业人士。事实上，卡德沃拉德夫人说，布鲁克开始为米德尔马彻夫妇治疗，她更喜欢参加什一税晚餐的农民，他们朴实无华地为她的健康干杯，而且并不为祖父的家具感到羞耻。因为在这个国家的那个地区，在改革对提高政治意识发挥显着作用之前，阶级的区分比较明显，政党的区分比较模糊。因此，布鲁克先生的五花八门的邀请似乎属于他普遍的松懈，这种松懈源于他过度的旅行和接受太多想法的习惯。

Already, as Miss Brooke passed out of the dining-room, opportunity was found for some interjectional ‘asides.’
当布鲁克小姐走出餐厅时，已经找到了一些感叹“旁白”的机会。

‘A fine woman, Miss Brooke! an uncommonly fine woman, by God!’ said Mr. Standish, the old lawyer, who had been so long concerned with the landed gentry that he had become landed himself, and used that oath in a deep-mouthed manner as a sort of armorial bearings, stamping the speech of a man who held a good position.
“布鲁克小姐，真是个好女人！老律师斯坦迪什先生说，他长期以来一直关心地主贵族，以至于他自己也成为了地主，他深沉地用这个誓言作为一种徽章。轴承，压印着一个担任要职的人的讲话。

Mr. Bulstrode, the banker, seemed to be addressed, but that gentleman disliked coarseness and profanity, and merely bowed. The remark was taken up by Mr. Chichely, a middle-aged bachelor and coursing celebrity, who had a complexion something like an Easter egg, a few hairs carefully arranged, and a carriage implying the consciousness of a distinguished appearance.
银行家布尔斯特罗德先生似乎受到了欢迎，但这位先生不喜欢粗俗和脏话，只是鞠了一躬。奇切利先生接了这句话，他是一位中年单身汉，也是一位名流，他的肤色像复活节彩蛋，几根头发精心排列，一身马车，暗示着高贵的外表意识。

‘Yes, but not my style of woman: I like a woman who lays herself out a little more to please us. There should be a little filigree about a woman—something of the coquette. A man likes a sort of challenge. The more of a dead set she makes at you the better.’
“是的，但不是我的女人风格：我喜欢一个为了取悦我们而更多地展现自己的女人。女人身上应该有一点精致的东西——卖弄风骚的东西。男人喜欢某种挑战。她对你越坚决越好。

‘There’s some truth in that,’ said Mr. Standish, disposed to be genial. ‘And, by God, it’s usually the way with them. I suppose it answers some wise ends: Providence made them so, eh, Bulstrode?’
“这话有几分道理，”斯坦迪什先生说，语气和蔼可亲。 “而且，上帝啊，他们通常都是这样的。我想它回答了一些明智的结局：上帝让他们如此，呃，布尔斯特罗德？

‘I should be disposed to refer coquetry to another source,’ said Mr. Bulstrode. ‘I should rather refer it to the devil.’
“我应该把卖弄风情的事交给另一个来源，”布尔斯特罗德先生说。 “我宁愿把它交给魔鬼。”

‘Ay, to be sure, there should be a little devil in a woman,’ said Mr. Chichely, whose study of the fair sex seemed to have been detrimental to his theology. ‘And I like them blond, with a certain gait, and a swan neck. Between ourselves, the mayor’s daughter is more to my taste than Miss Brooke or Miss Celia either. If I were a marrying man I should choose Miss Vincy before either of them.’
“是的，可以肯定的是，女人身上应该有一个小恶魔，”奇切利先生说，他对女性的研究似乎对他的神学不利。 “我喜欢他们金发碧眼，步态独特，还有天鹅颈。”私下告诉你，市长的女儿比布鲁克小姐或西莉亚小姐更合我的口味。如果我是一个已婚男人，我应该先选择文西小姐，然后再选择他们。

‘Well, make up, make up,’ said Mr. Standish, jocosely; ‘you see the middle-aged fellows early the day.’
“好吧，化妆，化妆，”斯坦迪什先生开玩笑地说。 “一大早就见到了那些中年人。”

Mr. Chichely shook his head with much meaning: he was not going to incur the certainty of being accepted by the woman he would choose.
奇切利先生意味深长地摇摇头：他不会确信自己会被他选择的女人接受。

The Miss Vincy who had the honor of being Mr. Chichely’s ideal was of course not present; for Mr. Brooke, always objecting to go too far, would not have chosen that his nieces should meet the daughter of a Middlemarch manufacturer, unless it were on a public occasion. The feminine part of the company included none whom Lady Chettam or Mrs. Cadwallader could object to; for Mrs. Renfrew, the colonel’s widow, was not only unexceptionable in point of breeding, but also interesting on the ground of her complaint, which puzzled the doctors, and seemed clearly a case wherein the fulness of professional knowledge might need the supplement of quackery. Lady Chettam, who attributed her own remarkable health to home-made bitters united with constant medical attendance, entered with much exercise of the imagination into Mrs. Renfrew’s account of symptoms, and into the amazing futility in her case of all, strengthening medicines.
有幸成为奇切利先生的理想对象的文西小姐当然不在场。因为布鲁克先生总是反对走得太远，他不会选择让他的侄女们去见米德尔马契制造商的女儿，除非是在公共场合。公司中的女性部分包括切塔姆夫人或卡德沃拉德夫人可以反对的人。对于伦弗鲁夫人来说，上校的遗孀，不仅在教养方面无懈可击，而且她的抱怨也很有趣，这让医生们感到困惑，而且显然是一个需要江湖医生补充专业知识的案例。 。切塔姆夫人将自己非凡的健康归功于自制的苦味酒和不断的就医，她充分发挥想象力，进入了伦弗鲁夫人对症状的描述，并进入了她的所有强化药物的惊人徒劳之中。

‘Where can all the strength of those medicines go, my dear?’ said the mild but stately dowager, turning to Mrs. Cadwallader reflectively, when Mrs. Renfrew’s attention was called away.
“亲爱的，那些药效都到哪里去了？”当伦弗鲁夫人的注意力被转移时，这位温和而庄严的太后若有所思地转向卡德瓦拉德夫人说道。

‘It strengthens the disease,’ said the Rector’s wife, much too well-born not to be an amateur in medicine. ‘Everything depends on the constitution: some people make fat, some blood, and some bile—that’s my view of the matter; and whatever they take is a sort of grist to the mill.’
“它会加重病情。”教区长的妻子说，她出身名门，不可能不是医学爱好者。 “一切都取决于体质：有些人制造脂肪，有些人制造血液，有些人制造胆汁——这是我对此事的看法；无论他们拿走什么，都是磨坊里的谷物。

‘Then she ought to take medicines that would reduce—reduce the disease, you know, if you are right, my dear. And I think what you say is reasonable.’
“那么她应该服用能够减少——减少疾病的药物，你知道，如果你是对的，亲爱的。我认为你说的很有道理。”

‘Certainly it is reasonable. You have two sorts of potatoes, fed on the same soil. One of them grows more and more watery—‘
‘当然这是合理的。你有两种土豆，在相同的土壤上生长。其中一颗变得越来越水汪汪——’

‘Ah! like this poor Mrs. Renfrew—that is what I think. Dropsy! There is no swelling yet—it is inward. I should say she ought to take drying medicines, shouldn’t you?—or a dry hot-air bath. Many things might be tried, of a drying nature.’
'啊！就像这位可怜的伦弗鲁夫人一样——我就是这么想的。浮肿！还没有肿胀——它是向内的。我应该说她应该服用干燥药物，不是吗？——或者干热风浴。可以尝试许多干燥性质的事情。

‘Let her try a certain person’s pamphlets,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader in an undertone, seeing the gentlemen enter. ‘He does not want drying.’
“让她试试某个人的小册子，”卡德沃拉德夫人看到先生们进来，低声说道。 “他不想烘干。”

‘Who, my dear?’ said Lady Chettam, a charming woman, not so quick as to nullify the pleasure of explanation.
“谁，亲爱的？”切塔姆夫人说道，她是一位迷人的女人，她并没有急于消除解释的乐趣。

‘The bridegroom—Casaubon. He has certainly been drying up faster since the engagement: the flame of passion, I suppose.’
‘新郎——卡索邦。自从订婚以来，他肯定已经更快地枯竭：我想，激情的火焰。

‘I should think he is far from having a good constitution,’ said Lady Chettam, with a still deeper undertone. ‘And then his studies—so very dry, as you say.’
“我认为他的体质远非良好，”切塔姆夫人语气更深沉地说。 “然后是他的学习——正如你所说，非常枯燥。”

‘Really, by the side of Sir James, he looks like a death’s head skinned over for the occasion. Mark my words: in a year from this time that girl will hate him. She looks up to him as an oracle now, and by-and-by she will be at the other extreme. All flightiness!’
“真的，在詹姆斯爵士身边，他看起来就像是为了这个场合而被剥皮的死人头颅。记住我的话：一年后那个女孩就会恨他。她现在把他视为神谕，不久她就会走向另一个极端。一切都是轻浮的！

‘How very shocking! I fear she is headstrong. But tell me—you know all about him—is there anything very bad? What is the truth?’
‘多么令人震惊啊！我担心她很任性。但是告诉我——你了解他的一切——有什么非常糟糕的事情吗？真相是什么？'

‘The truth? he is as bad as the wrong physic—nasty to take, and sure to disagree.’
'真相？他就像吃错了药一样糟糕——令人讨厌，而且肯定会不同意。

‘There could not be anything worse than that,’ said Lady Chettam, with so vivid a conception of the physic that she seemed to have learned something exact about Mr. Casaubon’s disadvantages. ‘However, James will hear nothing against Miss Brooke. He says she is the mirror of women still.’
“没有比这更糟糕的事情了，”切塔姆女士说道，她对物理的理解如此生动，以至于她似乎已经准确地了解了卡苏邦先生的缺点。 “然而，詹姆斯不会听到任何反对布鲁克小姐的声音。他说她仍然是女性的镜子。

‘That is a generous make-believe of his. Depend upon it, he likes little Celia better, and she appreciates him. I hope you like my little Celia?’
‘这是他的慷慨的谎言。相信吧，他更喜欢小西莉亚，她也欣赏他。我希望你喜欢我的小西莉亚？

‘Certainly; she is fonder of geraniums, and seems more docile, though not so fine a figure. But we were talking of physic. Tell me about this new young surgeon, Mr. Lydgate. I am told he is wonderfully clever: he certainly looks it—a fine brow indeed.’
'当然;她比较喜欢天竺葵，看起来比较温顺，虽然身材不那么好。但我们谈论的是物理学。跟我说说这位新来的年轻外科医生利德盖特先生。我听说他非常聪明：他确实看起来很聪明——确实有一个漂亮的眉毛。

‘He is a gentleman. I heard him talking to Humphrey. He talks well.’
‘他是一位绅士。我听到他在和汉弗莱说话。他说话很好。

‘Yes. Mr. Brooke says he is one of the Lydgates of Northumberland, really well connected. One does not expect it in a practitioner of that kind. For my own part, I like a medical man more on a footing with the servants; they are often all the cleverer. I assure you I found poor Hicks’s judgment unfailing; I never knew him wrong. He was coarse and butcher-like, but he knew my constitution. It was a loss to me his going off so suddenly. Dear me, what a very animated conversation Miss Brooke seems to be having with this Mr. Lydgate!’
'是的。布鲁克先生说他是诺森伯兰郡利德盖特家族的一员，人脉非常广。人们不会期望这样的修行者会出现这种情况。就我个人而言，我更喜欢一个与仆人相处融洽的医生。他们往往更聪明。我向你保证，我发现可怜的希克斯的判断力是可靠的。我对他的认识从来都没有错。他粗鲁，像个屠夫，但他了解我的体质。他突然离开对我来说是一种损失。天哪，布鲁克小姐和这位利德盖特先生的谈话似乎非常热烈！

‘She is talking cottages and hospitals with him,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, whose ears and power of interpretation were quick. ‘I believe he is a sort of philanthropist, so Brooke is sure to take him up.’
“她正在和他谈论小屋和医院，”卡德瓦拉德夫人说，她的耳朵和翻译能力很快。 “我相信他是一位慈善家，所以布鲁克肯定会接受他。”

‘James,’ said Lady Chettam when her son came near, ‘bring Mr. Lydgate and introduce him to me. I want to test him.’
“詹姆斯，”切塔姆夫人在儿子走近时说道，“带利德盖特先生来，把他介绍给我。”我想考验他。

The affable dowager declared herself delighted with this opportunity of making Mr. Lydgate’s acquaintance, having heard of his success in treating fever on a new plan.
和蔼可亲的太后表示，她很高兴有机会结识利德盖特先生，因为她听说了利德盖特先生的新计划在治疗发烧方面取得了成功。

Mr. Lydgate had the medical accomplishment of looking perfectly grave whatever nonsense was talked to him, and his dark steady eyes gave him impressiveness as a listener. He was as little as possible like the lamented Hicks, especially in a certain careless refinement about his toilet and utterance. Yet Lady Chettam gathered much confidence in him. He confirmed her view of her own constitution as being peculiar, by admitting that all constitutions might be called peculiar, and he did not deny that hers might be more peculiar than others. He did not approve of a too lowering system, including reckless cupping, nor, on the other hand, of incessant port wine and bark. He said ‘I think so’ with an air of so much deference accompanying the insight of agreement, that she formed the most cordial opinion of his talents.
利德盖特先生具有医学造诣，无论别人对他说些什么废话，他都会显得十分严肃，他那双乌黑而坚定的眼睛让他作为一个倾听者给人留下了深刻的印象。他尽可能不像令人遗憾的希克斯，尤其是在他的盥洗和言语上有某种粗心的修饰。然而切塔姆夫人对他充满了信心。他承认所有的体质都可以被称为奇特，从而证实了她对自己体质的独特看法，并且他并不否认她的体质可能比其他人更奇特。他不赞成过于降低的制度，包括鲁莽的拔罐，另一方面，也不赞成不断地喝波特酒和树皮。他说“我想是的”，语气中充满了尊重和同意，她对他的才华形成了​​最诚挚的评价。

‘I am quite pleased with your protege,’ she said to Mr. Brooke before going away.
“我对你的门生非常满意，”她在离开前对布鲁克先生说道。

‘My protege?—dear me!—who is that?’ said Mr. Brooke.
“我的门生？——天哪！——那是谁？”布鲁克先生说。

‘This young Lydgate, the new doctor.-He seems to me to understand his profession admirably.’
“这位年轻的利德盖特，新来的医生——在我看来，他对自己的职业有着令人钦佩的理解。”

‘Oh, Lydgate! he is not my protege, you know; only I knew an uncle of his who sent me a letter about him. However, I think he is likely to be first-rate—has studied in Paris, knew Broussais; has ideas, you know—wants to raise the profession.’
“哦，利德盖特！你知道，他不是我的门生；只有我认识他的一位叔叔，他给我写了一封关于他的信。不过，我认为他很可能是一流的——曾在巴黎读书，认识布罗塞；你知道，有想法——想要提升这个职业。”

‘Lydgate has lots of ideas, quite new, about ventilation and diet, that sort of thing,’ resumed Mr. Brooke, after he had handed out Lady Chettam, and had returned to be civil to a group of Middlemarchers.
“利德盖特有很多关于通风和饮食之类的想法，都很新，”布鲁克先生在把切塔姆夫人分发出去后又恢复了对一群米德尔马彻的礼貌。

‘Hang it, do you think that is quite sound?—upsetting The old treatment, which has made Englishmen what they re?’ said Mr. Standish.
“等等，你认为这很合理吗？——颠覆了英国人的旧待遇？”斯坦迪什先生说。

‘Medical knowledge is at a low ebb among us,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, who spoke in a subdued tone, and had rather a sickly wir ‘I, for my part, hail the advent of Mr. Lydgate. I hope to find good reason for confiding the new hospital to his management.’
“我们的医学知识正处于低潮，”布尔斯特罗德先生说道，他的语气很压抑，语气有些病态，“就我而言，我对利德盖特先生的到来表示欢迎。”我希望找到充分的理由将新医院交给他的管理层。”

‘That is all very fine,’ replied Mr. Standish, who was not fond of Mr. Bulstrode; ‘if you like him to try experiments on your hospital patients, and kill a few people for charity I have no objection. But I am not going to hand money out of my purse to have experiments tried on me. I like treatment that has been tested a little.’
“那很好，”斯坦迪什先生回答道，他不喜欢布尔斯特罗德先生。 “如果你想让他在你医院的病人身上做实验，并为了慈善而杀一些人，我不反对。但我不会从钱包里拿出钱来在我身上进行实验。我喜欢经过一些测试的治疗方法。

‘Well, you know, Standish, every dose you take is an experiment-an experiment, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, nodding towards the lawyer.
“嗯，你知道，斯坦迪什，你服用的每一剂药都是一次实验——一次实验，你知道，”布鲁克先生说，向律师点点头。

‘Oh, if you talk in that sense!’ said Mr. Standish, with as much disgust at such non-legal quibbling as a man can well betray towards a valuable client.
“哦，如果你是这么说的话！”斯坦迪什先生说道，他对这种不合法的狡辩感到厌恶，就像一个人很可能背叛一位有价值的客户一样。

‘I should be glad of any treatment that would cure me without reducing me to a skeleton, like poor Grainger,’ said Mr. Vincy, the mayor, a florid man, who would have served for a study of flesh in striking contrast with the Franciscan tints of Mr. Bulstrode. ‘It’s an uncommonly dangerous thing to be left without any padding against the shafts of disease, as somebody said,—and I think it a very good expression myself.’
市长文西先生面色红润，他说：“如果能治愈我，又不会像可怜的格兰杰那样把我变成一具骷髅，我会感到很高兴。”文西先生本来可以从事与肉体形成鲜明对比的肉体研究。布尔斯特罗德先生的方济各会色彩。 “正如有人所说，没有任何衬垫来抵御疾病是一件非常危险的事情，我自己也认为这是一个很好的表达。”

Mr. Lydgate, of course, was out of hearing. He had quitted the party early, and would have thought it altogether tedious but for the novelty of certain introductions, especially the introduction to Miss Brooke, whose youthful bloom, with her approaching marriage to that faded scholar, and her interest in matters socially useful, gave her the piquancy of an unusual combination.
当然，利德盖特先生听不见了。他很早就退出了聚会，如果不是某些介绍的新颖性，特别是对布鲁克小姐的介绍，他会认为这完全乏味，尤其是对布鲁克小姐的介绍，她的青春绽放，她即将与那位褪色的学者结婚，以及她对社会有用的事情的兴趣，给了她一种不寻常的组合的辛辣味。

‘She is a good creature—that fine girl—but a little too earnest,’ he thought. ‘It is troublesome to talk to such women. They are always wanting reasons, yet they are too ignorant to understand the merits of any question, and usually fall hack on their moral sense to settle things after their own taste.’
“她是个好人——那个漂亮的女孩——但有点太认真了，”他想。 ‘和这样的女人说话很麻烦。他们总是想要理由，但他们太无知，无法理解任何问题的优点，并且通常会依靠自己的道德感来按照自己的喜好来解决问题。

Evidently Miss Brooke was not Mr. Lydgate’s style of woman any more than Mr. Chichely’s. Considered, indeed, in relation to the latter, whose mied was matured, she was altogether a mistake, and calculated to shock his trust in final causes, including the adaptation of fine young women to purplefaced bachelors. But Lydgate was less ripe, and might possibly have experience before him which would modify his opinion as to the most excellent things in woman.
显然，布鲁克小姐既不是利德盖特先生的风格，也不是奇切利先生的风格。确实，考虑到后者的思想已经成熟，她完全是一个错误，并且故意动摇他对最终原因的信任，包括让优秀的年轻女子适应紫脸单身汉。但利德盖特还不够成熟，他之前的经验可能会改变他对女人最优秀的品质的看法。

Miss Brooke, however, was not again seen by either of these gentlemen under her maiden name. Not long after that dinner-party she had become Mrs. Casaubon, and was on her way to Rome.
然而，这两位先生再也没有以她的娘家姓氏见过布鲁克小姐。宴会结束后不久，她就成为了卡索邦夫人，并踏上前往罗马的路上。

CHAPTER XI
第十一章

‘But deeds and language such as men do use,
“但是人类所使用的行为和语言，

And persons such as comedy would choose,
而喜剧之类的人会选择，

When she would show an image of the times,
当她展现时代形象时，

And sport with human follies, not with crimes.’
并与人类的愚蠢行为进行游戏，而不是与犯罪行为。”

—BEN JONSON.
——本·约翰逊。

Lydgate, in fact, was already conscious of being fascinated by a woman strikingly different from Miss Brooke: he did not in the least suppose that he had lost his balance and fallen in love, but he had said of that particular woman, ‘She is grace itself; she is perfectly lovely and accomplished. That is what a woman ought to be: she ought to produce the effect of exquisite music.’ Plain women he regarded as he did the other severe facts of life, to be faced with philosophy and investigated by science. But Rosamond Vincy seemed to have the true melodic charm; and when a man has seen the woman whom he would have chosen if he had intended to marry speedily, his remaining a bachelor will usually depend on her resolution rather than on his. Lydgate believed that he should not marry for several years: not marry until he had trodden out a good clear path for himself away from the broad road which was quite ready made. He had seen Miss Vincy above his horizon almost as long as it had taken Mr. Casaubon to become engaged and married: but this learned gentleman was possessed of a fortune; he had assembled his voluminous notes, and had made that sort of reputation which precedes performance,—often the larger part of a man’s fame. He took a wife, as we have seen, to adorn the remaining quadrant of his course, and be a little moon that would cause hardly a calculable perturbation. But Lydgate was young, poor, ambitious. He had his half-century before him instead of behind him, and he had come to Middlemarch bent on doing many things that were not directly fitted to make his fortune or even secure him a good income. To a man under such circumstances, taking a wife is something more than a question of adornment, however highly he may rate this; and Lydgate was disposed to give it the first place among wifely functions. To his taste, guided by a single conversation, here was the point on which Miss Brooke would be found wanting, notwithstanding her undeniable beauty. She did not look at things from the proper feminine angle. The society of such women was about as relaxing as going from your work to teach the second form, instead of reclining in a paradise with sweet laughs for bird-notes, and blue eyes for a heaven.
事实上，利德盖特已经意识到自己对一个与布鲁克小姐截然不同的女人着迷：他丝毫没有认为自己失去了平衡并坠入爱河，但他谈到那个特定的女人时说：“她是恩典本身；她非常可爱而且多才多艺。这就是女人应该成为的样子：她应该产生优美的音乐效果。”他对待平凡的女人，就像他对待生活中其他严峻的事实一样，面对哲学和接受科学研究。但罗莎蒙德·文西似乎拥有真正的旋律魅力；当一个男人看到了如果他打算尽快结婚的话他会选择的女人时，他是否继续单身通常取决于她的决心，而不是他的决心。利德盖特认为，他不应该在几年内结婚：除非他为自己从已经准备好的康庄大道上走出一条清晰的道路，否则不要结婚。他在地平线上见过文西小姐，几乎和卡苏邦先生订婚结婚的时间一样长：但是这位博学的绅士拥有一笔财富；他收集了大量的笔记，并在表演之前就获得了声誉——通常是一个人名声的大部分。正如我们所看到的，他娶了一个妻子来装饰他的路线的剩余象限，并成为一个几乎不会引起可计算的扰动的小月亮。但利德盖特年轻、贫穷、雄心勃勃。他的半个世纪在他面前而不是在他身后，他来到米德尔马奇一心要做许多并不直接适合他发财的事情，甚至不适合让他获得丰厚的收入。 在这种情况下，对于一个男人来说，娶个妻子，无论他对妻子的评价有多高，都不仅仅是一个装饰的问题，而是一个重要的问题。利德盖特打算把它放在妻子的职责中的首位。按照他的口味，在一次谈话的引导下，布鲁克小姐就会发现她的不足之处，尽管她无可否认的美丽。她没有从正确的女性角度看待事物。这些女人的社会就像放下工作去教第二种形式一样轻松，而不是躺在天堂里，用甜美的笑声聆听鸟儿的音符，用蓝眼睛聆听天堂。

Certainly nothing at present could seem much less important to Lydgate than the turn of Miss Brooke’s mind, or to Miss Brooke than the qualities of the woman who had attracted this young surgeon. But any one watching keenly the stealthy convergence of human lots, sees a slow preparation of effects from one life on another, which tells like a calculated irony on the indifference or the frozen stare with which we look at our unintroduced neighbor. Destiny stands by sarcastic with our dramatis personae folded in her hand.
当然，对于利德盖特来说，目前没有什么比布鲁克小姐的思想转变更重要的了，对于布鲁克小姐来说，没有什么比吸引这位年轻外科医生的女人的品质更重要的了。但任何敏锐地观察人类命运的秘密融合的人，都会看到一种生活对另一种生活的影响正在慢慢准备，这就像对我们对待不知名邻居的冷漠或冰冷凝视的精心设计的讽刺。命运冷嘲热讽地站在一边，手里握着我们的戏剧人物。

Old provincial society had its share of this subtle movement: had not only its striking downfalls, its brilliant young professional dandies who ended by living up an entry with a drab and six children for their establishment, but also those less marked vicissitudes which are constantly shifting the boundaries of social intercourse, and begetting new consciousness of interdependence. Some slipped a little downward, some got higher footing: people denied aspirates, gained wealth, and fastidious gentlemen stood for boroughs; some were caught in political currents, some in ecclesiastical, and perhaps found themselves surprisingly grouped in consequence; while a few personages or families that stood with rocky firmness amid all this fluctuation, were slowly presenting new aspects in spite of solidity, and altering with the double change of self and beholder. Municipal town and rural parish gradually made fresh threads of connection—gradually, as the old stocking gave way to the savings-bank, and the worship of the solar guinea became extinct; while squires and baronets, and even lords who had once lived blamelessly afar from the civic mind, gathered the faultiness of closer acquaintanceship. Settlers, too, came from distant counties, some with an alarming novelty of skill, others with an offensive advantage in cunning. In fact, much the same sort of movement and mixture went on in old England as we find in older Herodotus, who also, in telling what had been, thought it well to take a woman’s lot for his starting-point; though Io, as a maiden apparently beguiled by attractive merchandise, was the reverse of Miss Brooke, and in this respect perhaps bore more resemblance to Rosamond Vincy, who had excellent taste in costume, with that nymph-like figure and pure blindness which give the largest range to choice in the flow and color of drapery. But these things made only part of her charm. She was admitted to be the flower of Mrs. Lemon’s school, the chief school in the county, where the teaching included all that was demanded in the accomplished female—even to extras, such as the getting in and out of a carriage. Mrs. Lemon herself had always held up Miss Vincy as an example: no pupil, she said, exceeded that young lady for mental acquisition and propriety of speech, while her musical execution was quite exceptional. We cannot help the way in which people speak of us, and probably if Mrs. Lemon had undertaken to describe Juliet or Imogen, these heroines would not have seemed poetical. The first vision of Rosamond would have been enough with most judges to dispel any prejudice excited by Mrs. Lemon’s praise.
旧的外省社会也经历了这场微妙的运动：不仅有其惊人的衰落，其才华横溢的年轻职业花花公子最终以单调的身份和六个孩子建立了自己的事业，而且还有那些不那么明显的、不断变化的沧桑。社会交往的界限，并产生新的相互依存意识。有些人的地位稍稍下滑，有些人的地位更高：人们拒绝了愿望，获得了财富，挑剔的绅士代表了行政区；有些人陷入了政治潮流，有些人陷入了教会，也许他们发现自己因此而出人意料地被归为一类。而一些在这一切波动中坚如磐石的人物或家族，却在坚固中慢慢呈现出新的面貌，并随着自我和旁观者的双重变化而改变。城镇和乡村教区逐渐建立了新的联系——随着旧袜子逐渐被储蓄银行所取代，对太阳几内亚的崇拜逐渐消失；而乡绅和男爵，甚至曾经无可指摘地远离公民思想的领主，却在更亲密的熟人中积累了错误。定居者也来自遥远的郡县，他们中的一些人拥有惊人的新奇技能，另一些人则凭借狡猾的进攻优势。 事实上，在旧英格兰，我们在老希罗多德那里发现了同样的运动和混合，他在讲述过去的事情时，也认为以女性的命运为出发点是件好事。尽管艾欧，作为一个显然被有吸引力的商品所迷惑的少女，却与布鲁克小姐相反，在这方面也许与罗莎蒙德·文西更相似，后者对服装有着极好的品味，有着仙女般的身材和纯粹的盲目性，这使得窗帘的流量和颜色的选择范围最大。但这些只是她魅力的一部分。她被认为是莱蒙夫人学校的校花，该学校是该县的主要学校，那里的教学包括对有成就的女性所要求的一切，甚至包括额外的内容，例如进出马车。莱蒙夫人本人一直以文西小姐为榜样：她说，在心智修养和言语得体方面，没有哪个学生能超过那位年轻女士，而她的音乐表演却相当出色。我们无法控制人们谈论我们的方式，而且如果莱蒙夫人开始描述朱丽叶或伊莫金，这些女英雄可能就不会显得诗意了。大多数评委对罗莎蒙德的第一眼印象就足以消除因莱蒙夫人的赞扬而产生的任何偏见。

Lydgate could not be long in Middlemarch without having that agreeable vision, or even without making the acquaintance of the Vincy family; for though Mr. Peacock, whose practice he had paid something to enter on, had not been their doctor (Mrs. Vincy not liking the lowering system adopted by him), he had many patients among their connections and acquaintances. For who of any consequence in Middlemarch was not connected or at least acquainted with the Vincys? They were old manufacturers, and had kept a good house for three generations, in which there had naturally been much intermarrying with neighbors more or less decidedly genteel. Mr. Vincy’s sister had made a wealthy match in accepting Mr. Bulstrode, who, however, as a man not born in the town, and altogether of dimly known origin, was considered to have done well in uniting himself with a real Middlemarch family; on the other hand, Mr. Vincy had descended a little, having taken an innkeeper’s daughter. But on this side too there was a cheering sense of money; for Mrs. Vincy’s sister had been second wife to rich old Mr. Featherstone, and had died childless years ago, so that her nephews and nieces might be supposed to touch the affections of the widower. And it happened that Mr. Bulstrode and Mr. Featherstone, two of Peacock’s most important patients, had, from different causes, given an especially good reception to his successor, who had raised some partisanship as well as discussion. Mr. Wrench, medical attendant to the Vincy family, very early had grounds for thinking lightly of Lydgate’s professional discretion, and there was no report about him which was not retailed at the Vincys’, where visitors were frequent. Mr. Vincy was more inclined to general good-fellowship than to taking sides, but there was no need for him to be hasty in making any new man acquaintance. Rosamond silently wished that her father would invite Mr. Lydgate. She was tired of the faces and figures she had always been used to—the various irregular profiles and gaits and turns of phrase distinguishing those Middlemarch young men whom she had known as boys. She had been at school with girls of higher position, whose brothers, she felt sure, it would have been possible for her to be more interested in, than in these inevitable Middlemarch companions. But she would not have chosen to mention her wish to her father; and he, for his part, was in no hurry on the subject. An alderman about to be mayor must by-and-by enlarge his dinner-parties, but at present there were plenty of guests at his well-spread table.
利德盖特不可能在米德尔马契待太久，因为他没有那种愉快的愿景，甚至没有结识文西一家。因为虽然皮科克先生不是他们的医生（文西夫人不喜欢他采用的降低系统），但他付了一些钱才开始执业，但他在他们的关系和熟人中却有很多病人。在米德尔马契，谁与文西家族没有联系，或者至少不熟悉呢？他们是老制造商，三代人都经营着一栋好房子，其中自然有很多与或多或少明显上流社会的邻居通婚的情况。文西先生的姐姐在接受布尔斯特罗德先生方面做了一笔丰厚的撮合，然而，布尔斯特罗德先生并非出生在该镇，而且出身也模糊不清，因此被认为在与真正的米德尔马契家族的结合方面做得很好。另一方面，文西先生带着一位旅店老板的女儿走了一段路。但这一边也有一种令人高兴的金钱感。因为文西夫人的妹妹是富有的老费瑟斯通先生的第二任妻子，多年前就去世了，没有孩子，所以她的侄子和侄女可能会感动鳏夫的感情。碰巧，皮科克最重要的两位病人布尔斯特罗德先生和费瑟斯通先生，出于不同的原因，对他的继任者给予了特别好的接待，继任者提出了一些党派之争和讨论。文西家族的医务人员扳手先生很早就有理由轻视利德盖特的职业判断力，而且所有关于他的报道都在经常来访的文西家零售。先生。 文西更倾向于保持良好的友谊，而不是偏袒任何一方，但他没有必要急于结识任何新人。罗莎蒙德默默地希望她的父亲能够邀请利德盖特先生。她厌倦了她一直习惯的面孔和身材——各种不规则的轮廓、步态和措辞，这些都是米德尔马奇的年轻人所特有的，她把他们称为男孩。她和地位较高的女孩一起上学，她确信，她可能会对她们的兄弟比这些不可避免的米德尔马契同伴更感兴趣。但她不会选择向父亲提及她的愿望；就他而言，他并不急于谈论这个话题。一位即将担任市长的市议员必须逐渐扩大他的宴会规模，但目前他那张宽敞的桌子上已经坐满了客人。

That table often remained covered with the relics of the family breakfast long after Mr. Vincy had gone with his second son to the warehouse, and when Miss Morgan was already far on in morning lessons with the younger girls in the schoolroom. It awaited the family laggard, who found any sort of inconvenience (to others) less disagreeable than getting up when he was called. This was the case one morning of the October in which we have lately seen Mr. Casaubon visiting the Grange; and though the room was a little overheated with the fire, which had sent the spaniel panting to a remote corner, Rosamond, for some reason, continued to sit at her embroidery longer than usual, now and then giving herself a little shake, and laying her work on her knee to contemplate it with an air of hesitating weariness. Her mamma, who had returned from an excursion to the kitchen, sat on the other side of the small work-table with an air of more entire placidity, until, the clock again giving notice that it was going to strike, she looked up from the lace-mending which was occupying her plump fingers and rang the bell.
在文西先生带着他的二儿子去仓库很久之后，当摩根小姐已经在教室里和年轻的女孩们一起上早课的时候，那张桌子上经常还摆满了家庭早餐的残骸。它等待着家里的落后者，他发现（对其他人来说）任何形式的不便都比叫他起床时更令人不快。十月的一个早晨就是这样，我们最近看到卡苏邦先生参观了农庄。虽然房间里的火有点过热，这让西班牙猎犬气喘吁吁地跑到了一个偏僻的角落，但罗莎蒙德不知为什么，继续在刺绣前坐得比平时更长，时不时地摇晃一下，然后躺下。她跪在地上工作，带着犹豫疲倦的神情思考这件事。她的妈妈刚从厨房回来，她坐在小工作台的另一边，神态更加平静，直到时钟再次通知它即将敲响，她才抬起头来。她胖乎乎的手指忙着缝补花边，按响了门铃。

‘Knock at Mr. Fred’s door again, Pritchard, and tell him it has struck half-past ten.’
“普里查德，再敲一下弗雷德先生的门，告诉他已经十点半了。”

This was said without any change in the radiant good-humor of Mrs. Vincy’s face, in which forty-five years had delved neither angles nor parallels; and pushing back her pink capstrings, she let her work rest on her lap, while she looked admiringly at her daughter.
这句话说完，文西夫人脸上灿烂的幽默感没有任何变化，四十五年来，她的脸上既没有任何角度，也没有相似之处。她把粉色的腰带往后一推，把工作放在腿上，同时钦佩地看着女儿。

‘Mamma,’ said Rosamond, ‘when Fred comes down I wish you would not let him have red herrings. I cannot bear the smell of them all over the house at this hour of the morning.’
“妈妈，”罗莎蒙德说，“当弗雷德下来时，我希望你不要让他有转移注意力的机会。我无法忍受早上这个时候满屋子的气味。”

‘Oh, my dear, you are so hard on your brothers! It is the only fault I have to find with you. You are the sweetest temper in the world, but you are so tetchy with your brothers.’
‘哦，亲爱的，你对你的兄弟们太严厉了！这是我在你身上唯一能找到的缺点。你是世界上最可爱的脾气，但你对你的兄弟却很暴躁。

‘Not tetchy, mamma: you never hear me speak in an unladylike way.’
“别发脾气，妈妈：你从来没听过我用不淑女的方式说话。”

‘Well, but you want to deny them things.’
“好吧，但你想拒绝他们的事情。”

‘Brothers are so unpleasant.’
“兄弟们真是太不讨人喜欢了。”

‘Oh, my dear, you must allow for young men. Be thankful if they have good hearts. A woman must learn to put up with little things. You will be married some day.’
‘哦，亲爱的，你必须考虑到年轻人。如果他们有善良的心，请心存感激。女人要学会忍受小事。总有一天你会结婚的。

‘Not to any one who is like Fred.’
“对任何像弗雷德这样的人来说都不是。”

‘Don’t decry your own brother, my dear. Few young men have less against them, although he couldn’t take his degree—I’m sure I can’t understand why, for he seems to me most clever. And you know yourself he was thought equal to the best society at college. So particular as you are, my dear, I wonder you are not glad to have such a gentlemanly young man for a brother. You are always finding fault with Bob because he is not Fred.’
“不要谴责你自己的兄弟，亲爱的。尽管他没能获得学位，但很少有年轻人对他们如此反对——我确信我不明白为什么，因为在我看来他是最聪明的。你自己也知道，他被认为是大学里最优秀的人。亲爱的，尽管你如此挑剔，我不知道你不高兴有这样一位绅士的年轻人作为兄弟。你总是挑剔鲍勃的毛病，因为他不是弗雷德。”

‘Oh no, mamma, only because he is Bob.’
“哦不，妈妈，只是因为他是鲍勃。”

‘Well, my dear, you will not find any Middlemarch young man who has not something against him.’
“好吧，亲爱的，你找不到任何一个米德尔马奇年轻人对他怀有怨恨。”

‘But’—here Rosamond’s face broke into a smile which suddenly revealed two dimples. She herself thought unfavorably of these dimples and smiled little in general society. ‘But I shall not marry any Middlemarch young man.’
“但是”——说到这里，罗莎蒙德的脸上绽开了笑容，突然露出了两个酒窝。她本人对这些酒窝并不看好，在社会上也很少微笑。 “但我不会嫁给任何米德尔马奇的年轻人。”

‘So it seems, my love, for you have as good as refused the pick of them; and if there’s better to be had, I’m sure there’s no girl better deserves it.’
“看来，我的爱人，你几乎是拒绝了他们的选择；如果有更好的事情可以拥有，我相信没有女孩比她更值得拥有。

‘Excuse me, mamma—I wish you would not say, ‘the pick of them.’’
“对不起，妈妈——我希望你不要说‘他们中的佼佼者。’”

‘Why, what else are they?’
“为什么，它们还有什么？”

‘I mean, mamma, it is rather a vulgar expression.’
“我的意思是，妈妈，这是一种相当粗俗的表达方式。”

‘Very likely, my dear; I never was a good speaker. What should I say?’
“很有可能，亲爱的；我从来就不是一个好的演讲者。我应该说什么？'

‘The best of them.’
“他们中最好的。”

‘Why, that seems just as plain and common. If I had had time to think, I should have said, ‘the most superior young men.’ But with your education you must know.’
‘哎呀，这似乎是那么简单和常见。如果我有时间思考，我应该说，“最优秀的年轻人。”但以你所受的教育，你一定知道。

‘What must Rosy know, mother?’ said Mr. Fred, who had slid in unobserved through the half-open door while the ladies were bending over their work, and now going up to the fire stood with his back towards it, warming the soles of his slippers.
“罗西必须知道什么，妈妈？”弗雷德先生说道，当女士们正在弯腰干活时，他悄悄地从半开的门溜了进来，现在背对着火站在火边，给炉子取暖。他的拖鞋鞋底。

‘Whether it’s right to say ‘superior young men,’’ said Mrs. Vincy, ringing the bell.
“说‘优秀的年轻人’是否正确，”文西夫人按响了门铃说道。

‘Oh, there are so many superior teas and sugars now. Superior is getting to be shopkeepers’ slang.’
‘哎呀，现在上等的茶和糖多了。 “高级”正在成为店主的俚语。

‘Are you beginning to dislike slang, then?’ said Rosamond, with mild gravity.
“那么，你开始不喜欢俚语了吗？”罗莎蒙德语气温和地说道。

‘Only the wrong sort. All choice of words is slang. It marks a class.’
‘只是类型不对而已。所有的用词都是俚语。它标志着一个班级。

‘There is correct English: that is not slang.’
“有正确的英语：那不是俚语。”

‘I beg your pardon: correct English is the slang of prigs who write history and essays. And the strongest slang of all is the slang of poets.’
“请原谅：正确的英语是写历史和散文的一本正经的人的俚语。其中最强烈的俚语是诗人的俚语。

‘You will say anything, Fred, to gain your point.’
“弗雷德，为了表达你的观点，你可以说任何话。”

‘Well, tell me whether it is slang or poetry to call an ox a leg-plaiter.’
“好吧，告诉我称牛为腿辫子是俚语还是诗歌。”

‘Of course you can call it poetry if you like.’
“当然，如果你愿意的话，你可以称之为诗。”

‘Aha, Miss Rosy, you don’t know Homer from slang. I shall invent a new game; I shall write bits of slang and poetry on slips, and give them to you to separate.’
“啊哈，罗西小姐，你不是从俚语中认识荷马的。我将发明一种新游戏；我会在纸条上写一些俚语和诗歌，然后交给你把它们分开。

‘Dear me, how amusing it is to hear young people talk!’ said Mrs. Vincy, with cheerful admiration.
“天啊，听年轻人说话真是太有趣了！”文西夫人满怀钦佩地说。

‘Have you got nothing else for my breakfast, Pritchard?’ said Fred, to the servant who brought in coffee and buttered toast; while he walked round the table surveying the ham, potted beef, and other cold remnants, with an air of silent rejection, and polite forbearance from signs of disgust.
“普里查德，你没有给我的早餐准备别的东西吗？”弗雷德对送来咖啡和黄油吐司的仆人说道。他绕着桌子走来走去，打量着火腿、罐装牛肉和其他冷的剩菜，脸上带着一种无声拒绝的神情，又带着厌恶的表情礼貌地克制。

‘Should you like eggs, sir?’
“先生，您想吃鸡蛋吗？”

‘Eggs, no! Bring me a grilled bone.’
‘鸡蛋，不！给我一块烤骨头。

‘Really, Fred,’ said Rosamond, when the servant had left the room, ‘if you must have hot things for breakfast, I wish you would come down earlier. You can get up at six o’clock to go out hunting; I cannot understand why you find it so difficult to get up on other mornings.’
“真的，弗雷德，”仆人离开房间后，罗莎蒙德说道，“如果你早餐必须吃热食，我希望你早点下来。六点钟就可以起床出去打猎；我不明白为什么你觉得其他早上起床这么困难。”

‘That is your want of understanding, Rosy. I can get up to go hunting because I like it.’
“这就是你想要理解的原因，罗西。我可以起床去打猎，因为我喜欢它。

‘What would you think of me if I came down two hours after every one else and ordered grilled bone?’
“如果我比其他人晚两小时下来并点了烤骨头，你会怎么看我？”

‘I should think you were an uncommonly fast young lady,’ said Fred, eating his toast with the utmost composure.
“我认为你是一位异常敏捷的年轻女士，”弗雷德说，极其镇定地吃着吐司。

‘I cannot see why brothers are to make themselves disagreeable, any more than sisters.’
“我不明白为什么兄弟会比姐妹更令人讨厌。”

‘I don’t make myself disagreeable; it is you who find me so. Disagreeable is a word that describes your feelings and not my actions.’
“我不会让自己变得令人不快；是你发现我如此。 “不愉快”这个词描述的是你的感受，而不是我的行为。

‘I think it describes the smell of grilled bone.’
“我认为它描述了烤骨头的味道。”

‘Not at all. It describes a sensation in your little nose associated with certain finicking notions which are the classics of Mrs. Lemon’s school. Look at my mother you don’t see her objecting to everything except what she does herself. She is my notion of a pleasant woman.’
'一点也不。它描述了你的小鼻子中与某些挑剔的想法相关的感觉，这是莱蒙夫人学校的经典之作。看看我的母亲，你看不到她反对一切，除了她自己做的事情。她是我心目中令人愉快的女人。

‘Bless you both, my dears, and don’t quarrel,’ said Mrs. Vincy, with motherly cordiality. ‘Come, Fred, tell us all about the new doctor. How is your uncle pleased with him?’
“祝福你们俩，亲爱的，不要吵架，”文西夫人带着慈母般的亲切说道。 “来吧，弗雷德，告诉我们关于新医生的一切。你叔叔对他满意吗？

‘Pretty well, I think. He asks Lydgate all sorts of questions and then screws up his face while he hears the answers, as if they were pinching his toes. That’s his way. Ah, here comes my grilled bone.’
“我想，很好。”他问了利德盖特各种各样的问题，然后在听到答案时皱起了眉头，就好像他们在捏他的脚趾一样。这就是他的方式。啊，我的烤骨头来了。

‘But how came you to stay out so late, my dear? You only said you were going to your uncle’s.’
“但是亲爱的，你怎么这么晚才在外面呢？你只是说你要去你叔叔家。”

‘Oh, I dined at Plymdale’s. We had whist. Lydgate was there too.’
“哦，我在普林代尔餐厅吃过饭。我们有惠斯特。利德盖特也在场。

‘And what do you think of him? He is very gentlemanly, I suppose. They say he is of excellent family—his relations quite county people.’
‘那你觉得他怎么样？我想他很有绅士风度。他们说他出身极好，亲戚都是县里人。

‘Yes,’ said Fred. ‘There was a Lydgate at John’s who spent no end of money. I find this man is a second cousin of his. But rich men may have very poor devils for second cousins.’
“是的，”弗雷德说。 “约翰家有一个利德盖特，他花了很多钱。我发现这个人是他的远房表弟。但富人的堂兄弟姐妹可能会非常贫穷。”

‘It always makes a difference, though, to be of good family,’ said Rosamond, with a tone of decision which showed that she had thought on this subject. Rosamond felt that she might have been happier if she had not been the daughter of a Middlemarch manufacturer. She disliked anything which reminded her that her mother’s father had been an innkeeper. Certainly any one remembering the fact might think that Mrs. Vincy had the air of a very handsome good-humored landlady, accustomed to the most capricious orders of gentlemen.
“不过，出身好家庭总是很重要的，”罗莎蒙德说道，语气中充满决断，表明她已经思考过这个问题。罗莎蒙德觉得，如果她不是米德尔马契制造商的女儿，她可能会更幸福。她不喜欢任何让她想起她外公曾是旅店老板的事物。当然，任何记得这一事实的人都会认为文西夫人有一种非常英俊、幽默的女房东的气质，习惯了绅士们最反复无常的命令。

‘I thought it was odd his name was Tertius,’ said the bright-faced matron, ‘but of course it’s a name in the family. But now, tell us exactly what sort of man he is.’
“我觉得他的名字叫特提乌斯很奇怪，”脸色明亮的主妇说，“但这当然是家里的名字。但现在，请告诉我们他到底是一个什么样的人。”

‘Oh, tallish, dark, clever—talks well—rather a prig, I think.’
“哦，个子高，皮肤黑，聪明——说话很好——我觉得还挺一本正经的。”

‘I never can make out what you mean by a prig,’ said Rosamond.
“我永远无法理解你说的假正经是什么意思，”罗莎蒙德说。

‘A fellow who wants to show that he has opinions.’
“一个想要表明他有自己的观点的人。”

‘Why, my dear, doctors must have opinions,’ said Mrs. Vincy. ‘What are they there for else?’
“为什么，亲爱的，医生必须有意见，”文西夫人说。 “他们还在那里做什么？”

‘Yes, mother, the opinions they are paid for. But a prig is a fellow who is always making you a present of his opinions.’
“是的，妈妈，他们的意见是花钱买来的。”但一本正经的人总是向你表达他的观点。

‘I suppose Mary Garth admires Mr. Lydgate,’ said Rosamond, not without a touch of innuendo.
“我想玛丽·加斯很欣赏利德盖特先生，”罗莎蒙德不无含沙射影地说。

‘Really, I can’t say.’ said Fred, rather glumly, as he left the table, and taking up a novel which he had brought down with him, threw himself into an arm-chair. ‘If you are jealous of her, go oftener to Stone Court yourself and eclipse her.’
“说实话，我也说不准。”弗雷德离开餐桌，拿起随身携带的一本小说，一屁股坐在扶手椅上，闷闷不乐地说。 “如果你嫉妒她，就自己多去石庭，让她黯然失色。”

‘I wish you would not be so vulgar, Fred. If you have finished, pray ring the bell.’
“我希望你不要这么粗俗，弗雷德。如果你已经完成了，请按响门铃。

‘It is true, though—what your brother says, Rosamond,’ Mrs. Vincy began, when the servant had cleared the table. ‘It is a thousand pities you haven’t patience to go and see your uncle more, so proud of you as he is, and wanted you to live with him. There’s no knowing what he might have done for you as well as for Fred. God knows, I’m fond of having you at home with me, but I can part with my children for their good. And now it stands to reason that your uncle Featherstone will do something for Mary Garth.’
“不过，你哥哥说的是真的，罗莎蒙德，”仆人收拾完桌子后，文西太太开始说道。 “你没有耐心多去看望你的叔叔，真是千遗憾，他为你感到骄傲，并希望你和他住在一起。不知道他可能为你和弗雷德做了什么。天知道，我很高兴有你在家里和我在一起，但为了我的孩子们好，我可以和他们分开。现在按理说你叔叔费瑟斯通会为玛丽·加斯做点什么。”

‘Mary Garth can bear being at Stone Court, because she likes that better than being a governess,’ said Rosamond, folding up her work. ‘I would rather not have anything left to me if I must earn it by enduring much of my uncle’s cough and his ugly relations.’
“玛丽·加斯可以忍受在斯通庭院的生活，因为她更喜欢当家庭教师，”罗莎蒙德一边说，一边折叠起她的工作。 “如果我必须通过忍受叔叔的咳嗽和他那些丑陋的亲戚来挣钱的话，我宁愿一无所有。”

‘He can’t be long for this world, my dear; I wouldn’t hasten his end, but what with asthma and that inward complaint, let us hope there is something better for him in another. And I have no ill-will toward’s Mary Garth, but there’s justice to be thought of. And Mr. Featherstone’s first wife brought him no money, as my sister did. Her nieces and nephews can’t have so much claim as my sister’s. And I must say I think Mary Garth a dreadful plain girl—more fit for a governess.’
“他不可能在这个世界上呆太久，亲爱的；我不会加速他的死亡，但由于哮喘和内心的抱怨，让我们希望他能在另一个人身上得到更好的东西。我对玛丽·加斯并无恶意，但还是有正义可言。费瑟斯通先生的第一任妻子没有像我姐姐那样给他带来任何钱。她的侄女和侄子不可能像我姐姐那样拥有那么多的权利。我必须说，我认为玛丽·加思是一个可怕的普通女孩——更适合当家庭教师。

‘Every one would not agree with you there, mother,’ said Fred, who seemed to be able to read and listen too.
“妈妈，那里的每个人都不会同意你的观点，”弗雷德说，他似乎也能读书和听。

‘Well, my dear,’ said Mrs. Vincy, wheeling skilfully, ‘if she HAD some fortune left her,—a man marries his wife’s relations, and the Garths are so poor, and live in such a small way. But I shall leave you to your studies, my dear; for I must go and do some shopping.’
“好吧，亲爱的，”文西太太熟练地转动着方向盘，“如果她还有一些财产的话，——一个男人娶了他妻子的亲戚，而加思一家如此贫穷，生活又如此狭隘。但我会让你继续学习，亲爱的；因为我必须去买点东西。

‘Fred’s studies are not very deep,’ said Rosamond, rising with her mamma, ‘he is only reading a novel.’
“弗雷德的学问不是很深，”罗莎蒙德和妈妈一起起身说道，“他只是在读一本小说。”

‘Well, well, by-and-by he’ll go to his Latin and things,’ said Mrs. Vincy, soothingly, stroking her son’s head. ‘There’s a fire in the smoking-room on purpose. It’s your father’s wish, you know—Fred, my dear—and I always tell him you will be good, and go to college again to take your degree.’
“好吧，好吧，很快他就会去学拉丁语之类的了，”文西夫人抚摸着儿子的头，安慰道。 “吸烟室是故意着火的。这是你父亲的愿望，你知道的——弗雷德，亲爱的——我总是告诉他你会做得很好，并再次进入大学获得学位。

Fred drew his mother’s hand down to his lips, but said nothing.
弗雷德将母亲的手拉到唇边，但什么也没说。

‘I suppose you are not going out riding to-day?’ said Rosamond, lingering a little after her mamma was gone.
“我想你今天不会出去骑马吧？”罗莎蒙德在妈妈走后逗留了一会儿说道。

‘No; why?’
'不;为什么？'

‘Papa says I may have the chestnut to ride now.’
“爸爸说我现在可以骑栗子了。”

‘You can go with me to-morrow, if you like. Only I am going to Stone Court, remember.’
“如果你愿意的话，明天可以跟我一起去。”记住，只有我会去 Stone Court。

‘I want to ride so much, it is indifferent to me where we go.’ Rosamond really wished to go to Stone Court, of all other places.
“我太想骑马了，去哪里对我来说并不重要。”在所有其他地方中，罗莎蒙德最想去的是 Stone Court。

‘Oh, I say, Rosy,’ said Fred, as she was passing out of the room, ‘if you are going to the piano, let me come and play some airs with you.’
“哦，我说，罗西，”弗雷德走出房间时说道，“如果你要去弹钢琴，那就让我来和你一起弹几首曲子吧。”

‘Pray do not ask me this morning.’
“今天早上请不要问我。”

‘Why not this morning?’
“为什么不是今天早上呢？”

‘Really, Fred, I wish you would leave off playing the flute. A man looks very silly playing the flute. And you play so out of tune.’
“说实话，弗雷德，我希望你别再吹长笛了。一个吹笛子的男人看起来很傻。而且你弹得那么走调。

‘When next any one makes love to you, Miss Rosamond, I will tell him how obliging you are.’
“下次有人和你做爱时，罗莎蒙德小姐，我会告诉他你是多么乐于助人。”

‘Why should you expect me to oblige you by hearing you play the flute, any more than I should expect you to oblige me by not playing it?’
“你为什么要指望我听你吹笛子来满足你的要求，就像我不应该指望你不吹笛子来满足我的要求一样？”

‘And why should you expect me to take you out riding?’
“那你为什么要指望我带你出去骑马呢？”

This question led to an adjustment, for Rosamond had set her mind on that particular ride.
这个问题导致了她的调整，因为罗莎蒙德已经下定决心要进行那次特别的骑行。

So Fred was gratified with nearly an hour’s practice of ‘Ar hyd y nos,’ ‘Ye banks and braes,’ and other favorite airs from his ‘Instructor on the Flute;’ a wheezy performance, into which he threw much ambition and an irrepressible hopefulness.
因此，弗雷德对近一个小时的“Ar hyd y nos”、“Ye Banks and Braes”以及他的“长笛教练”中其他最喜欢的曲调的练习感到满意；这是一场气喘吁吁的表演，他在其中投入了巨大的野心和无法抑制的热情。希望。

CHAPTER XII
第十二章

‘He had more tow on his distaffe
“他的后备箱上有更多的拖曳物

Than Gerveis knew.’
热维斯不知道。

—CHAUCER.
——乔叟。

The ride to Stone Court, which Fred and Rosamond took the next morning, lay through a pretty bit of midland landscape, almost all meadows and pastures, with hedgerows still allowed to grow in bushy beauty and to spread out coral fruit for the birds. Little details gave each field a particular physiognomy, dear to the eyes that have looked on them from childhood: the pool in the corner where the grasses were dank and trees leaned whisperingly; the great oak shadowing a bare place in mid-pasture; the high bank where the ash-trees grew; the sudden slope of the old marl-pit making a red background for the burdock; the huddled roofs and ricks of the homestead without a traceable way of approach; the gray gate and fences against the depths of the bordering wood; and the stray hovel, its old, old thatch full of mossy hills and valleys with wondrous modulations of light and shadow such as we travel far to see in later life, and see larger, but not more beautiful. These are the things that make the gamut of joy in landscape to midland-bred souls—the things they toddled among, or perhaps learned by heart standing between their father’s knees while he drove leisurely.
弗雷德和罗莎蒙德第二天早上乘车前往斯通考特，途中经过了相当多的中部地区，几乎都是草地和牧场，树篱仍然生长得茂密美丽，并为鸟类散布珊瑚果实。小细节赋予了每一块田地独特的面貌，让从小就看过它们的人们感到亲切：角落里的水池，草湿漉漉的，树木低语地倾斜着；高大的橡树遮蔽了牧场中部的一片光秃秃的地方；白蜡树生长的高岸；老泥灰坑突然倾斜，为牛蒡形成了红色背景；宅基地里拥挤的屋顶和木屋，没有任何可追踪的途径；灰色的大门和栅栏映衬着周围树林的深处；还有那间杂乱的小屋，古老的茅草屋，布满青苔的山丘和山谷，光影的奇妙变化，就像我们在晚年远行时看到的那样，看到更大，但并不更美丽。这些东西给中部地区长大的灵魂带来了风景中的全部乐趣——他们在其中蹒跚学步，或者也许是在父亲悠闲地开车时站在父亲的膝盖之间记住的东西。

But the road, even the byroad, was excellent; for Lowick, as we have seen, was not a parish of muddy lanes and poor tenants; and it was into Lowick parish that Fred and Rosamond entered after a couple of miles’ riding. Another mile would bring them to Stone Court, and at the end of the first half, the house was already visible, looking as if it had been arrested in its growth toward a stone mansion by an unexpected budding of farm-buildings on its left flank, which had hindered it from becoming anything more than the substantial dwelling of a gentleman farmer. It was not the less agreeable an object in the distance for the cluster of pinnacled corn-ricks which balanced the fine row of walnuts on the right.
但这条路，甚至是小路，都非常好。正如我们所见，洛威克并不是一个充满泥泞小巷和贫穷佃户的教区。弗雷德和罗莎蒙德骑行了几英里后，进入了洛威克教区。再走一英里，他们就到了石苑，在上半场结束时，房子已经清晰可见，看起来好像它在向一座石头宅邸发展的过程中被左翼意外萌芽的农舍所阻止。 ，这阻碍了它成为绅士农民的坚固住所。远处那一簇尖顶的玉米垛与右边那排细密的核桃树相平衡，这并不是一个不那么令人愉快的物体。

Presently it was possible to discern something that might be a gig on the circular drive before the front door.
不久，就可以在前门前的环形车道上辨别出可能是演出的东西。

‘Dear me,’ said Rosamond, ‘I hope none of my uncle’s horrible relations are there.’
“天哪，”罗莎蒙德说，“我希望我叔叔那些可怕的亲戚都不在那里。”

‘They are, though. That is Mrs. Waule’s gig—the last yellow gig left, I should think. When I see Mrs. Waule in it, I understand how yellow can have been worn for mourning. That gig seems to me more funereal than a hearse. But then Mrs. Waule always has black crape on. How does she manage it, Rosy? Her friends can’t always be dying.’
'不过，他们确实是这样。那是沃勒夫人的​​演出——我想是最后剩下的黄色演出了。当我看到沃勒夫人穿着这件衣服时，我明白黄色是多么适合哀悼。在我看来，那场演出比灵车更丧葬。但沃勒夫人总是穿着黑纱。她是怎么做到的，罗西？她的朋友不可能总是死去。

‘I don’t know at all. And she is not in the least evangelical,’ said Rosamond, reflectively, as if that religious point of view would have fully accounted for perpetual crape. ‘And, not poor,’ she added, after a moment’s pause.
‘我一点也不知道。 “她根本不是福音派信徒。”罗莎蒙德若有所思地说，仿佛这种宗教观点可以完全解释永恒的绉纱。 “而且，也不穷。”停顿片刻后，她补充道。

‘No, by George! They are as rich as Jews, those Waules and Featherstones; I mean, for people like them, who don’t want to spend anything. And yet they hang about my uncle like vultures, and are afraid of a farthing going away from their side of the family. But I believe he hates them all.’
“不，乔治！”他们和犹太人一样富有，沃勒斯家族和费瑟斯通家族。我的意思是，对于像他们这样不想花任何东西的人来说。然而他们却像秃鹰一样在我叔叔身边徘徊，害怕任何东西离开他们的家族。但我相信他讨厌他们所有人。

The Mrs. Waule who was so far from being admirable in the eyes of these distant connections, had happened to say this very morning (not at all with a defiant air, but in a low, muffied, neutral tone, as of a voice heard through cotton wool) that she did not wish ‘to enjoy their good opinion.’ She was seated, as she observed, on her own brother’s hearth, and had been Jane Featherstone five-and-twenty years before she had been Jane Waule, which entitled her to speak when her own brother’s name had been made free with by those who had no right to it.
在这些远方亲戚眼中，沃勒夫人远非令人钦佩，她今天早上碰巧这样说道（一点也不带着挑衅的神情，而是用一种低沉、闷闷、中性的语气，就像听到一个声音一样）她不希望“享受他们的好意见”。据她观察，她坐在自己哥哥的壁炉边，早在她成为简·沃勒之前五二十年前就已经是简·费瑟斯通了。当她自己兄弟的名字被那些无权使用的人随意使用时，她有权发言。

‘What are you driving at there?’ said Mr. Featherstone, holding his stick between his knees and settling his wig, while he gave her a momentary sharp glance, which seemed to react on him like a draught of cold air and set him coughing.
“你在那儿开什么车？”费瑟斯通先生一边说，一边把手杖夹在膝盖之间，整理好他的假发，同时他锐利地看了她一眼，这目光似乎像一股冷空气一样作用在他身上，让他咳嗽起来。 。

Mrs. Waule had to defer her answer till he was quiet again, till Mary Garth had supplied him with fresh syrup, and he had begun to rub the gold knob of his stick, looking bitterly at the fire. It was a bright fire, but it made no difference to the chill-looking purplish tint of Mrs. Waule’s face, which was as neutral as her voice; having mere chinks for eyes, and lips that hardly moved in speaking.
沃勒太太不得不推迟回答，直到他再次安静下来，直到玛丽·加思给他提供了新鲜的糖浆，而他开始摩擦手杖的金色旋钮，痛苦地看着火。那是一团明亮的火，但这对沃勒夫人那张冷得发紫的脸来说没有什么影响，她的脸和她的声音一样中性。眼睛只有缝隙，说话时嘴唇几乎不动。

‘The doctors can’t master that cough, brother. It’s just like what I have; for I’m your own sister, constitution and everything. But, as I was saying, it’s a pity Mrs. Vincy’s family can’t be better conducted.’
“医生无法控制咳嗽，兄弟。这就像我所拥有的一样；因为我是你自己的妹妹、宪法和一切。但是，正如我所说，遗憾的是文西夫人的家庭不能得到更好的管理。

‘Tchah! you said nothing o’ the sort. You said somebody had made free with my name.’
‘查啊！你什么也没说。你说有人盗用了我的名字。

‘And no more than can be proved, if what everybody says is true. My brother Solomon tells me it’s the talk up and down in Middlemarch how unsteady young Vincy is, and has been forever gambling at billiards since home he came.’
“如果每个人所说的都是真的，那么就没有什么可以证明的了。”我哥哥所罗门告诉我，米德尔马契上下都在谈论年轻的文西是多么不稳定，自从他回家以来，他就一直在打台球。

‘Nonsense! What’s a game at billiards? It’s a good gentlemanly game; and young Vincy is not a clodhopper. If your son John took to billiards, now, he’d make a fool of himself.’
'废话！台球有什么游戏？这是一个很好的绅士游戏；年轻的文西也不是个土包子。如果你的儿子约翰现在开始打台球，他就会出丑。

‘Your nephew John never took to billiards or any other game, brother, and is far from losing hundreds of pounds, which, if what everybody says is true, must be found somewhere else than out of Mr. Vincy the father’s pocket. For they say he’s been losing money for years, though nobody would think so, to see him go coursing and keeping open house as they do. And I’ve heard say Mr. Bulstrode condemns Mrs. Vincy beyond anything for her flightiness, and spoiling her children so.’!
“你的侄子约翰从来没有玩过台球或任何其他游戏，兄弟，而且还远没有失去数百英镑，如果每个人都说是真的，那么这些钱肯定是从父亲文西先生的口袋里找到的。因为他们说他多年来一直在赔钱，尽管没有人会这么认为，因为看到他像他们一样去训练和保持开放。我听说布尔斯特罗德先生对文西夫人的轻浮和溺爱孩子的行为进行了极其严厉的谴责。

‘What’s Bulstrode to me? I don’t bank with him.’
“布尔斯特罗德对我来说是什么？我不和他一起存钱。

‘Well, Mrs. Bulstrode is Mr. Vincy’s own sister, and they do say that Mr. Vincy mostly trades on the Bank money; and you may see yourself, brother, when a woman past forty has pink strings always flying, and that light way of laughing at everything, it’s very unbecoming. But indulging your children is one thing, and finding money to pay their debts is another. And it’s openly said that young Vincy has raised money on his expectations. I don’t say what expectations. Miss Garth hears me, and is welcome to tell again. I know young people hang together.’
“嗯，布尔斯特罗德夫人是文西先生的妹妹，他们确实说文西先生主要用银行的钱进行交易；兄弟，你也可以看看自己，四十岁以上的女人，总是粉红的绳子飞扬，那种对一切都轻描淡写的样子，很不雅观。但纵容孩子是一回事，找钱还债又是另一回事。公开表示，年轻的文西已经筹集到了符合他期望的资金。我不说什么期望。加思小姐听到了我的声音，欢迎再次讲述。我知道年轻人在一起。

‘No, thank you, Mrs. Waule,’ said Mary Garth. ‘I dislike hearing scandal too much to wish to repeat it.’
“不，谢谢你，沃勒夫人，”玛丽·加思说。 “我太不喜欢听到丑闻，不想再重复了。”

Mr. Featherstone rubbed the knob of his stick and made a brief convulsive show of laughter, which had much the same genuineness as an old whist-player’s chuckle over a bad hand. Still looking at the fire, he said—
费瑟斯通先生揉了揉球棒的把手，短暂地发出阵阵笑声，这与一位老惠斯特球员因一手不好的牌而咯咯地笑一样真诚。他仍然看着火，说道——

‘And who pretends to say Fred Vincy hasn’t got expectations? Such a fine, spirited fellow is like enough to have ‘em.’
“谁假装说弗雷德·文西没有得到期望？这样一个优秀、充满活力的家伙就足够拥有“他们”了。

There was a slight pause before Mrs. Waule replied, and when she did so, her voice seemed to be slightly moistened with tears, though her face was still dry.
沃勒夫人稍稍停顿了一下才回答，虽然她的脸仍然干燥，但她的声音似乎略带泪水。

‘Whether or no, brother, it is naturally painful to me and my brother Solomon to hear your name made free with, and your complaint being such as may carry you off sudden, and people who are no more Featherstones than the Merry-Andrew at the fair, openly reckoning on your property coming to THEM. And me your own sister, and Solomon your own brother! And if that’s to be it, what has it pleased the Almighty to make families for?’ Here Mrs. Waule’s tears fell, but with moderation.
“无论是否，兄弟，听到你的名字被无罪释放，对我和我的兄弟所罗门来说，自然是痛苦的，你的抱怨可能会让你突然离开，而那些人并不比梅里·安德鲁更多的羽毛石。公平地、公开地估计你的财产会交给他们。我是你的妹妹，所罗门是你的弟弟！如果真是这样，万能的上帝为什么要建立家庭呢？”说到这里，沃勒夫人的​​泪水流了下来，但有克制。

‘Come, out with it, Jane!’ said Mr. Featherstone, looking at her. ‘You mean to say, Fred Vincy has been getting somebody to advance him money on what he says he knows about my will, eh?’
“来吧，简！”费瑟斯通先生看着她说道。 “你的意思是说，弗雷德·文西一直在找人预支钱，因为他说他知道我的遗嘱，嗯？”

‘I never said so, brother’ (Mrs. Waule’s voice had again become dry and unshaken). ‘It was told me by my brother Solomon last night when he called coming from market to give me advice about the old wheat, me being a widow, and my son John only three-and-twenty, though steady beyond anything. And he had it from most undeniable authority, and not one, but many.’
“我从来没有这么说过，兄弟”（沃勒夫人的​​声音再次变得干涩而坚定）。 “昨晚，我的兄弟所罗门从市场打电话给我关于老小麦的建议时告诉我的，我是一个寡妇，我的儿子约翰只有三岁和二十岁，尽管他的表现非常稳定。他从最不可否认的权威那里得到了它，而且不是一个，而是很多。”

‘Stuff and nonsense! I don’t believe a word of it. It’s all a got-up story. Go to the window, missy; I thought I heard a horse. See if the doctor’s coming.’
'东西，废话！我一个字也不信。这都是一个编造的故事。走到窗前，小姐；我以为我听到了马声。看看医生是否来。

‘Not got up by me, brother, nor yet by Solomon, who, whatever else he may be—and I don’t deny he has oddities—has made his will and parted his property equal between such kin as he’s friends with; though, for my part, I think there are times when some should be considered more than others. But Solomon makes it no secret what he means to do.’
“不是由我起立的，兄弟，也不是由所罗门起立的，无论他是什么人——我不否认他有什么奇怪的地方——已经在他的朋友和亲戚之间制定了他的遗嘱并平等地分配了他的财产；不过，就我而言，我认为有时某些人应该比其他人更受重视。但所罗门毫不掩饰他的意图。

‘The more fool he!’ said Mr. Featherstone, with some difficulty; breaking into a severe fit of coughing that required Mary Garth to stand near him, so that she did not find out whose horses they were which presently paused stamping on the gravel before the door.
“他真是个傻瓜！”费瑟斯通先生有些困难地说。玛丽·加思突然剧烈咳嗽起来，不得不站在他身边，这样她就无法查出这些马是谁的，马匹很快就停在了门前的碎石路上。

Before Mr. Featherstone’s cough was quiet, Rosamond entered, bearing up her riding-habit with much grace. She bowed ceremoniously to Mrs. Waule, who said stiffly, ‘How do you do, miss?’ smiled and nodded silently to Mary, and remained standing till the coughing should cease, and allow her uncle to notice her.
费瑟斯通先生的咳嗽声还没平息，罗莎蒙德就进来了，优雅地保持着她的骑马习惯。她隆重地向沃勒夫人鞠了一躬，沃勒夫人生硬地说：“小姐，你好吗？”微笑着默默地向玛丽点点头，然后一直站着，直到咳嗽停止，让她叔叔注意到她。

‘Heyday, miss!’ he said at last, ‘you have a fine color. Where’s Fred?’
“嘿，小姐！”他最后说道，“你的肤色真好。”弗雷德在哪儿？

‘Seeing about the horses. He will be in presently.’
‘看看马的事。他马上就来。

‘Sit down, sit down. Mrs. Waule, you’d better go.’
‘坐下，坐下。沃勒夫人，你最好走吧。

Even those neighbors who had called Peter Featherstone an old fox, had never accused him of being insincerely polite, and his sister was quite used to the peculiar absence of ceremony with which he marked his sense of blood-relationship. Indeed, she herself was accustomed to think that entire freedom from the necessity of behaving agreeably was included in the Almighty’s intentions about families. She rose slowly without any sign of resentment, and said in her usual muffled monotone, ‘Brother, I hope the new doctor will be able to do something for you. Solomon says there’s great talk of his cleverness. I’m sure it’s my wish you should be spared. And there’s none more ready to nurse you than your own sister and your own nieces, if you’d only say the word. There’s Rebecca, and Joanna, and Elizabeth, you know.’
即使是那些称彼得·费瑟斯通为老狐狸的邻居，也从未指责他缺乏真诚的礼貌，而他的妹妹也很习惯于他用这种特有的不拘礼节来标记自己的血缘关系。事实上，她自己也习惯于认为，全能者对家庭的意图中包含了完全的自由，不必表现得和蔼可亲。她缓缓起身，没有任何怨恨的迹象，用一贯的闷闷不乐的语气说道：“兄弟，希望新来的医生能够为你做点什么。”所罗门说，人们对他的聪明才智赞不绝口。我确信我希望你能幸免。如果你愿意说的话，没有人比你自己的妹妹和你自己的侄女更愿意照顾你了。你知道，有丽贝卡、乔安娜和伊丽莎白。

‘Ay, ay, I remember—you’ll see I’ve remembered ‘em all—all dark and ugly. They’d need have some money, eh? There never was any beauty in the women of our family; but the Featherstones have always had some money, and the Waules too. Waule had money too. A warm man was Waule. Ay, ay; money’s a good egg; and if you ‘ve got money to leave behind you, lay it in a warm nest. Good-by, Mrs. Waule.’ Here Mr. Featherstone pulled at both sides of his wig as if he wanted to deafen himself, and his sister went away ruminating on this oracular speech of his. Notwithstanding her jealousy of the Vincys and of Mary Garth, there remained as the nethermost sediment in her mental shallows a persuasion that her brother Peter Featherstone could never leave his chief property away from his blood-relations:—else, why had the Almighty carried off his two wives both childless, after he had gained so much by manganese and things, turning up when nobody expected it?—and why was there a Lowick parish church, and the Waules and Powderells all sit ting in the same pew for generations, and the Featherstone pew next to them, if, the Sunday after her brother Peter’s death, everybody was to know that the property was gone out of the family? The human mind has at no period accepted a moral chaos; and so preposterous a result was not strictly conceivable. But we are frightened at much that is not strictly conceivable.
‘哎呀，哎呀，我记得了——你会发现我把它们全都记住了——全都又黑又丑。他们需要一些钱，是吗？我们家的女人从来没有什么美丽的地方。但费瑟斯通家族一直都有一些钱，沃勒斯家族也是如此。沃勒也有钱。沃勒是一个温暖的男人。哎，哎呀；钱是好鸡蛋；如果你有钱可以留下，就把它放在温暖的巢里。再见，沃勒夫人。”说到这里，费瑟斯通先生拉了拉假发的两侧，好像他想把自己震耳欲聋，而他的妹妹则一边思索着他这段神谕般的演讲，一边走开。尽管她嫉妒文西家族和玛丽·加斯，但在她的思想浅滩中，仍然有一种信念，认为她的兄弟彼得·费瑟斯通永远不会把他的主要财产从他的血缘关系中夺走：否则，为什么全能的上帝要夺走他的财产呢？他的两个妻子都没有孩子，在他通过锰和其他东西获得了如此多的收益之后，却在没人预料到的情况下出现了？——为什么会有一座洛威克教区教堂，而沃勒斯和波德德尔家族世世代代都坐在同一个长椅上，以及坐在他们旁边的费瑟斯通长椅上，如果在她哥哥彼得去世后的那个星期天，每个人都知道财产已经从家里消失了呢？人类的心灵从来没有接受过道德上的混乱。如此荒谬的结果严格来说是不可想象的。但我们对许多严格意义上无法想象的事物感到恐惧。

When Fred came in the old man eyed him with a peculiar twinkle, which the younger had often had reason to interpret as pride in the satisfactory details of his appearance.
当弗雷德进来时，老人用一种奇特的眼神看着他，年轻人常常有理由将这种眼神解释为对他外表令人满意的细节感到自豪。

‘You two misses go away,’ said Mr. Featherstone. ‘I want to speak to Fred.’
“你们两个失手走吧，”费瑟斯通先生说。 “我想和弗雷德说话。”

‘Come into my room, Rosamond, you will not mind the cold for a little while,’ said Mary. The two girls had not only known each other in childhood, but had been at the same provincial school together (Mary as an articled pupil), so that they had many memories in common, and liked very well to talk in private. Indeed, this tete-a-tete was one of Rosamond’s objects in coming to Stone Court.
“到我的房间来吧，罗莎蒙德，你暂时不会介意寒冷，”玛丽说。两个女孩不仅从小就认识，而且还一起在同一所省立学校上学（玛丽是一名文章学生），因此她们有很多共同的回忆，而且很喜欢私下交谈。事实上，这种亲密接触正是罗莎蒙德来到斯通考特的目的之一。

Old Featherstone would not begin the dialogue till the door had been closed. He continued to look at Fred with the same twinkle and with one of his habitual grimaces, alternately screwing and widening his mouth; and when he spoke, it was in a low tone, which might be taken for that of an informer ready to be bought off, rather than for the tone of an offended senior. He was not a man to feel any strong moral indignation even on account of trespasses against himself. It was natural that others should want to get an advantage over him, but then, he was a little too cunning for them.
直到门关上之后，老费瑟斯通才会开始对话。他继续用同样的眼神和惯常的鬼脸看着弗雷德，时而拧紧，时而张大嘴巴。他说话的语气很低，可能会被认为是一个准备被收买的告密者，而不是一个被冒犯的前辈的语气。他不是一个即使因为对自己的侵犯也不会感到任何强烈的道德义愤的人。别人想占他便宜是理所当然的事，但他对他们来说有点太狡猾了。

‘So, sir, you’ve been paying ten per cent for money which you’ve promised to pay off by mortgaging my land when I’m dead and gone, eh? You put my life at a twelvemonth, say. But I can alter my will yet.’
“那么，先生，您已经支付了百分之十的钱，您承诺在我死后通过抵押我的土地来偿还，是吗？比如说，你把我的寿命定为十二个月。但我还可以改变我的意愿。

Fred blushed. He had not borrowed money in that way, for excellent reasons. But he was conscious of having spoken with some confidence (perhaps with more than he exactly remembered) about his prospect of getting Featherstone’s land as a future means of paying present debts.
弗雷德脸红了。他没有以这种方式借钱，这是有充分理由的。但他意识到，他在谈到自己获得费瑟斯通土地作为未来偿还当前债务的手段的前景时，充满了信心（也许比他记忆中的还要自信）。

‘I don’t know what you refer to, sir. I have certainly never borrowed any money on such an insecurity. Please to explain.’
“我不知道你指的是什么，先生。我当然从来没有因为这种不安全感而借过任何钱。请解释一下。

‘No, sir, it’s you must explain. I can alter my will yet, let me tell you. I’m of sound mind—can reckon compound interest in my head, and remember every fool’s name as well as I could twenty years ago. What the deuce? I’m under eighty. I say, you must contradict this story.’
“不，先生，你必须解释一下。我还可以改变我的遗嘱，让我告诉你。我头脑健全，能在脑子里算出复利，能像二十年前一样记住每个傻瓜的名字。到底是什么？我还不到八十岁。我说，你必须反驳这个故事。

‘I have contradicted it, sir,’ Fred answered, with a touch of impatience, not remembering that his uncle did not verbally discriminate contradicting from disproving, though no one was further from confounding the two ideas than old Featherstone, who often wondered that so many fools took his own assertions for proofs. ‘But I contradict it again. The story is a silly lie.’
“我已经反驳了，先生，”弗雷德有点不耐烦地回答，他不记得他的叔叔在口头上并没有区分反驳和反驳，尽管没有人比老费瑟斯通更能混淆这两种观点，他经常想知道，如此许多傻瓜拿他自己的断言作为证据。 ‘但我又反驳了。这个故事是一个愚蠢的谎言。

‘Nonsense! you must bring dockiments. It comes from authority.’
'废话！你必须携带文件。它来自权威。

‘Name the authority, and make him name the man of whom I borrowed the money, and then I can disprove the story.’
“说出权威人士的名字，并让他说出我借钱的人的名字，然后我就可以反驳这个故事了。”

‘It’s pretty good authority, I think—a man who knows most of what goes on in Middlemarch. It’s that fine, religious, charitable uncle o’ yours. Come now!’ Here Mr. Featherstone had his peculiar inward shake which signified merriment.
“我认为这是相当不错的权威——一个知道米德尔马契发生的大部分事情的人。这就是你那个善良、虔诚、慈善的叔叔。来吧！”说到这里，费瑟斯通先生出现了他特有的内心震动，这表明他很高兴。

‘Mr. Bulstrode?’
'先生。布尔斯特罗德？

‘Who else, eh?’
“还有谁，嗯？”

‘Then the story has grown into this lie out of some sermonizing words he may have let fall about me. Do they pretend that he named the man who lent me the money?’
“然后，这个故事就变成了这个谎言，源于他可能对我说了一些说教的话。”他们假装他说出了借钱给我的人的名字吗？

‘If there is such a man, depend upon it Bulstrode knows him. But, supposing you only tried to get the money lent, and didn’t get it—Bulstrode ‘ud know that too. You bring me a writing from Bulstrode to say he doesn’t believe you’ve ever promised to pay your debts out o’ my land. Come now!’
“如果有这样一个人，相信布尔斯特罗德认识他。但是，假设你只是想借钱，但没有得到——布尔斯特罗德也知道这一点。你给我带来了布尔斯特罗德的一封信，说他不相信你曾承诺用我的土地偿还债务。现在来！'

Mr. Featherstone’s face required its whole scale of grimaces as a muscular outlet to his silent triumph in the soundness of his faculties.
费瑟斯通先生的脸上需要大量的鬼脸，以此作为肌肉发达的出口，以表达他对自己的健全能力的无声胜利。

Fred felt himself to be in a disgusting dilemma.
弗雷德觉得自己陷入了令人作呕的两难境地。

‘You must be joking, sir. Mr. Bulstrode, like other men, believes scores of things that are not true, and he has a prejudice against me. I could easily get him to write that he knew no facts in proof of the report you speak of, though it might lead to unpleasantness. But I could hardly ask him to write down what he believes or does not believe about me.’ Fred paused an instant, and then added, in politic appeal to his uncle’s vanity, ‘That is hardly a thing for a gentleman to ask.’ But he was disappointed in the result.
“您一定是在开玩笑，先生。布尔斯特罗德先生和其他人一样，相信许多不真实的事情，而且他对我有偏见。我可以很容易地让他写信说他不知道你所说的报告的证据，尽管这可能会导致不愉快。但我很难要求他写下他相信或不相信我的事情。”弗雷德停顿了一下，然后补充道，为了满足他叔叔的虚荣心，“这不是一个绅士会提出的要求。”但他对结果感到失望。

‘Ay, I know what you mean. You’d sooner offend me than Bulstrode. And what’s he?—he’s got no land hereabout that ever I heard tell of. A speckilating fellow! He may come down any day, when the devil leaves off backing him. And that’s what his religion means: he wants God A’mighty to come in. That’s nonsense! There’s one thing I made out pretty clear when I used to go to church—and it’s this: God A’mighty sticks to the land. He promises land, and He gives land, and He makes chaps rich with corn and cattle. But you take the other side. You like Bulstrode and speckilation better than Featherstone and land.’
‘嗯，我知道你的意思。你比布尔斯特罗德更容易冒犯我。他是谁？——据我所知，他在这附近没有土地。一个爱猜测的家伙！当魔鬼不再支持他时，他随时都可能倒下。这就是他的宗教信仰的含义：他希望全能的上帝进来。那是胡说八道！当我去教堂时，我非常清楚地表达了一件事——那就是：全能的上帝坚守在这片土地上。他应许土地，他赐予土地，他使人们因谷物和牲畜而致富。但你却站在另一边。比起费瑟斯通和土地，你更喜欢布尔斯特罗德和斑点。

‘I beg your pardon, sir,’ said Fred, rising, standing with his back to the fire and beating his boot with his whip. ‘I like neither Bulstrode nor speculation.’ He spoke rather sulkily, feeling himself stalemated.
“请您原谅，先生，”弗雷德站起来，背对着火站着，用鞭子抽打着靴子。 “我既不喜欢布尔斯特罗德，也不喜欢投机。”他闷闷不乐地说道，感觉自己陷入了僵局。

‘Well, well, you can do without me, that’s pretty clear,’ said old Featherstone, secretly disliking the possibility that Fred would show himself at all independent. ‘You neither want a bit of land to make a squire of you instead of a starving parson, nor a lift of a hundred pound by the way. It’s all one to me. I can make five codicils if I like, and I shall keep my bank-notes for a nest-egg. It’s all one to me.’
“好吧，好吧，没有我你也可以，这很清楚，”老费瑟斯通说道，暗自不喜欢弗雷德表现出完全独立的可能性。 “你既不需要一块土地来让你成为一个乡绅，而不是一个饥饿的牧师，顺便说一句，也不需要一百磅的电梯。这对我来说都是一回事。如果我愿意的话，我可以制作五份附录，并且我将保留我的钞票作为积蓄。这对我来说都是一回事。

Fred colored again. Featherstone had rarely given him presents of money, and at this moment it seemed almost harder to part with the immediate prospect of bank-notes than with the more distant prospect of the land.
弗雷德又变色了。费瑟斯通很少给他送钱礼物，此时此刻，放弃眼前的钞票似乎比放弃更遥远的土地更困难。

‘I am not ungrateful, sir. I never meant to show disregard for any kind intentions you might have towards me. On the contrary.’
“我并不是忘恩负义，先生。我从来没有想过要无视你对我的任何善意。相反。'

‘Very good. Then prove it. You bring me a letter from Bulstrode saying he doesn’t believe you’ve been cracking and promising to pay your debts out o’ my land, and then, if there’s any scrape you’ve got into, we’ll see if I can’t back you a bit. Come now! That’s a bargain. Here, give me your arm. I’ll try and walk round the room.’
'非常好。然后证明一下。你给我带来布尔斯特罗德的一封信，说他不相信你一直在破解并承诺用我的土地偿还债务，然后，如果你遇到任何困难，我们会看看我是否可以一点也不支持你。现在来！这很值得。来，把你的手臂给我。我会试着在房间里走动。

Fred, in spite of his irritation, had kindness enough in him to be a little sorry for the unloved, unvenerated old man, who with his dropsical legs looked more than usually pitiable in walking. While giving his arm, he thought that he should not himself like to be an old fellow with his constitution breaking up; and he waited good-temperedly, first before the window to hear the wonted remarks about the guinea-fowls and the weather-cock, and then before the scanty book-shelves, of which the chief glories in dark calf were Josephus, Culpepper, Klopstock’s ‘Messiah,’ and several volumes of the ‘Gentleman’s Magazine.’
弗雷德尽管很恼怒，但内心还是很仁慈，对这个不被爱戴、不受尊敬的老人感到有点抱歉，他双腿浮肿，走路时看起来比平常更可怜。他一边伸出手臂，一边想，自己不应该喜欢做一个体质已经崩溃的老家伙；他耐心地等待着，先是在窗前等待，听听关于珍珠鸡和风标的惯常评论，然后在稀少的书架前等待，其中主要的荣耀在深色小牛皮中是约瑟夫斯、卡尔佩珀、克洛普斯托克的书。 《弥赛亚》和几卷《绅士杂志》。

‘Read me the names o’ the books. Come now! you’re a college man.’
“读给我书名”。现在来！你是一名大学生。

Fred gave him the titles.
弗雷德给了他头衔。

‘What did missy want with more books? What must you be bringing her more books for?’
“小姐想要更多的书做什么？你为什么要给她带更多的书呢？

‘They amuse her, sir. She is very fond of reading.’
“它们让她很开心，先生。她非常喜欢读书。

‘A little too fond,’ said Mr. Featherstone, captiously. ‘She was for reading when she sat with me. But I put a stop to that. She’s got the newspaper to read out loud. That’s enough for one day, I should think. I can’t abide to see her reading to herself. You mind and not bring her any more books, do you hear?’
“有点太喜欢了，”费瑟斯通先生挑剔地说。 “她和我坐在一起时是为了读书。但我制止了这一点。她拿着报纸可以大声朗读。我想，这一天就够了。我无法忍受看到她自己读书。你介意不要再给她带书了，听到了吗？

‘Yes, sir, I hear.’ Fred had received this order before, and had secretly disobeyed it. He intended to disobey it again.
“是的，先生，我听到了。”弗雷德以前就接到过这个命令，但他却偷偷地违背了。他打算再次违抗。

‘Ring the bell,’ said Mr. Featherstone; ‘I want missy to come down.’
“按门铃，”费瑟斯通先生说。 “我要小姐下来。”

Rosamond and Mary had been talking faster than their male friends. They did not think of sitting down, but stood at the toilet-table near the window while Rosamond took off her hat, adjusted her veil, and applied little touches of her finger-tips to her hair—hair of infantine fairness, neither flaxen nor yellow. Mary Garth seemed all the plainer standing at an angle between the two nymphs—the one in the glass, and the one out of it, who looked at each other with eyes of heavenly blue, deep enough to hold the most exquisite meanings an ingenious beholder could put into them, and deep enough to hide the meanings of the owner if these should happen to be less exquisite. Only a few children in Middlemarch looked blond by the side of Rosamond, and the slim figure displayed by her riding-habit had delicate undulations. In fact, most men in Middlemarch, except her brothers, held that Miss Vincy was the best girl in the world, and some called her an angel. Mary Garth, on the contrary, had the aspect of an ordinary sinner: she was brown; her curly dark hair was rough and stubborn; her stature was low; and it would not be true to declare, in satisfactory antithesis, that she had all the virtues. Plainness has its peculiar temptations and vices quite as much as beauty; it is apt either to feign amiability, or, not feigning it, to show all the repulsive ness of discontent: at any rate, to be called an ugly thing in contrast with that lovely creature your companion, is apt to produce some effect beyond a sense of fine veracity and fitness in the phrase. At the age of two-and-twenty Mary had certainly not attained that perfect good sense and good principle which are usually recommended to the less fortunate girl, as if they were to be obtained in quantities ready mixed, with a flavor of resignation as required. Her shrewdness had a streak of satiric bitterness continually renewed and never carried utterly out of sight, except by a strong current of gratitude towards those who, instead of telling her that she ought to be contented, did something to make her so. Advancing womanhood had tempered her plainness, which was of a good human sort, such as the mothers of our race have very commonly worn in all latitudes under a more or less becoming headgear. Rembrandt would have painted her with pleasure, and would have made her broad features look out of the canvas with intelligent honesty. For honesty, truth-telling fairness, was Mary’s reigning virtue: she neither tried to create illusions, nor indulged in them for her own behoof, and when she was in a good mood she had humor enough in her to laugh at herself. When she and Rosamond happened both to be reflected in the glass, she said, laughingly—
罗莎蒙德和玛丽说话比她们的男性朋友更快。他们没有想到要坐下来，而是站在靠近窗户的梳妆台前，罗莎蒙德摘下帽子，调整了一下面纱，用指尖轻轻抚摸着她的头发——婴儿般白皙的头发，既不是亚麻色的，也不是亚麻色的。黄色的。玛丽·加思站在两个仙女之间，显得更加朴素——一个在玻璃里，一个在玻璃外，她们用天蓝色的眼睛互相看着对方，深邃得足以让一个聪明的旁观者蕴含着最微妙的含义。可以放进去，而且足够深，可以隐藏主人的意思，如果这些碰巧不那么精致的话。米德尔马契只有几个孩子在罗莎蒙德身边显得金发碧眼，她的骑马装所展现出的苗条身材有着微妙的起伏。事实上，除了她的兄弟之外，米德尔马奇的大多数男人都认为文西小姐是世界上最好的女孩，有些人称她为天使。玛丽·加思则恰恰相反，她的外表就像一个普通罪人：她是棕色的；她的黑卷发又粗又硬。她身材矮小；在令人满意的对立中宣称她拥有所有美德是不真实的。朴素与美丽一样，也有其独特的诱惑和恶习。它很容易假装和蔼可亲，或者不假装，表现出不满的所有令人厌恶的情绪：无论如何，与你的同伴那个可爱的生物相比，被称为丑陋的东西，很容易产生某种超出预期的效果。这句话的真实性和适应性感。 玛丽在两岁二十岁的时候肯定还没有达到那种完美的良好判断力和良好原则，而这些通常被推荐给不幸的女孩，就好像它们是按要求大量混合在一起获得的，带着一种顺从的味道。 。她的精明带有一丝讽刺的苦涩，不断地更新，并且永远不会完全消失，除了对那些没有告诉她应该满足，而是做了一些事情让她满足的人强烈的感激之情。女性地位的提高锻炼了她的朴素，这是一种善良的人类性格，就像我们种族的母亲在所有纬度地区都很普遍地戴着或多或少合身的头饰。伦勃朗会很高兴地画她，并会以聪明的诚实让她宽阔的面容从画布上显现出来。因为诚实、说真话、公平，是玛丽的主要美德：她既不试图制造幻想，也不为了自己的利益而沉迷于幻想，心情好的时候，她有足够的幽默感来嘲笑自己。 当她和罗莎蒙德碰巧都出现在玻璃里时，她笑着说道——

‘What a brown patch I am by the side of you, Rosy! You are the most unbecoming companion.’
‘罗西，我在你身边就像一块棕色的斑点！你是最不合适的伴侣。

‘Oh no! No one thinks of your appearance, you are so sensible and useful, Mary. Beauty is of very little consequence in reality,’ said Rosamond, turning her head towards Mary, but with eyes swerving towards the new view of her neck in the glass.
'不好了！没人会想到你的外表，你是那么懂事、那么有用，玛丽。 “美丽在现实中并不重要。”罗莎蒙德说，她把头转向玛丽，但眼睛却转向了镜子中她脖子的新景象。

‘You mean my beauty,’ said Mary, rather sardonically.
“你是说我的美貌，”玛丽颇为讽刺地说。

Rosamond thought, ‘Poor Mary, she takes the kindest things ill.’ Aloud she said, ‘What have you been doing lately?’
罗莎蒙德心想：“可怜的玛丽，她把最善良的事情都看坏了。”她大声说：“你最近在做什么？”

‘I? Oh, minding the house—pouring out syrup—pretending to be amiable and contented—learning to have a bad opinion of everybody.’
'我？哦，照管房子——倒糖浆——假装和蔼可亲、心满意足——学会对每个人都有不好的看法。

‘It is a wretched life for you.’
“这对你来说是悲惨的生活。”

‘No,’ said Mary, curtly, with a little toss of her head. ‘I think my life is pleasanter than your Miss Morgan’s.’
“不，”玛丽轻轻摇头，简短地说。 “我觉得我的生活比你们摩根小姐的生活更愉快。”

‘Yes; but Miss Morgan is so uninteresting, and not young.’
'是的;但摩根小姐太无趣了，而且也不年轻了。”

‘She is interesting to herself, I suppose; and I am not at all sure that everything gets easier as one gets older.’
“我想，她自己很有趣；我完全不确定随着年龄的增长，一切都会变得更容易。”

‘No,’ said Rosamond, reflectively; ‘one wonders what such people do, without any prospect. To be sure, there is religion as a support. But,’ she added, dimpling, ‘it is very different with you,’Mary. You may have an offer.’
“不，”罗莎蒙德若有所思地说。 “人们想知道这些没有任何前途的人会做什么。诚然，有宗教作为支撑。但是，”她微笑着补充道，“你的情况很不一样，”玛丽。你可能会收到一份报价。

‘Has any one told you he means to make me one?’
“有人告诉过你他打算让我成为其中一员吗？”

‘Of course not. I mean, there is a gentleman who may fall in love with you, seeing you almost every day.’
'当然不是。我的意思是，有一位绅士可能会爱上你，几乎每天都见到你。”

A certain change in Mary’s face was chiefly determined by the resolve not to show any change.
玛丽脸上的某种变化主要是因为她决心不表现出任何变化。

‘Does that always make people fall in love?’ she answered, carelessly; ‘it seems to me quite as often a reason for detesting each other.’
“这总是让人坠入爱河吗？”她漫不经心地回答道。 “在我看来，这常常是彼此厌恶的原因。”

‘Not when they are interesting and agreeable. I hear that Mr. Lydgate is both.’
‘当他们有趣且令人愉快的时候就不会了。我听说利德盖特先生两者都是。

‘Oh, Mr. Lydgate!’ said Mary, with an unmistakable lapse into indifference. ‘You want to know something about him,’ she added, not choosing to indulge Rosamond’s indirectness.
“哦，利德盖特先生！”玛丽说道，语气明显变得冷漠起来。 “你想了解一些关于他的事情，”她补充道，并没有选择纵容罗莎蒙德的间接性。

‘Merely, how you like him.’
“只是看你有多喜欢他。”

‘There is no question of liking at present. My liking always wants some little kindness to kindle it. I am not magnanimous enough to like people who speak to me without seeming to see me.’
‘目前不存在喜欢不喜欢的问题。我的喜好总是需要一些小小的善意来点燃它。我不够大度，不会喜欢那些看似没有看到我却跟我说话的人。”

‘Is he so haughty?’ said Rosamond, with heightened satisfaction. ‘You know that he is of good family?’
“他这么傲慢吗？”罗莎蒙德非常满意地说。 “你知道他出身很好吗？”

‘No; he did not give that as a reason.’
'不;他没有以此为理由。

‘Mary! you are the oddest girl. But what sort of looking man is he? Describe him to me.’
'玛丽！你是最奇怪的女孩。但他到底是什么样的人呢？向我描述一下他。

‘How can one describe a man? I can give you an inventory: heavy eyebrows, dark eyes, a straight nose, thick dark hair, large solid white hands—and—let me see—oh, an exquisite cambric pocket-handkerchief. But you will see him. You know this is about the time of his visits.’
‘如何形容一个人？我可以给你盘点一下：粗眉毛，黑眼睛，挺直的鼻子，浓密的黑发，又大又白的手——还有——让我看看——哦，还有一块精致的麻布口袋手帕。但你会看到他。你知道这是他来访的时间。

Rosamond blushed a little, but said, meditatively, ‘I rather like a haughty manner. I cannot endure a rattling young man.’
罗莎蒙脸红了一点，但若有所思地说：“我比较喜欢傲慢的态度。”我无法忍受一个胡言乱语的年轻人。

‘I did not tell you that Mr. Lydgate was haughty; but il y en a pour tous les gouts, as little Mamselle used to say, and if any girl can choose the particular sort of conceit she would like, I should think it is you, Rosy.’
“我并没有告诉你利德盖特先生很傲慢；但正如小曼瑟尔常说的那样，如果有哪个女孩可以选择她想要的那种自负，我认为那就是你，罗西。

‘Haughtiness is not conceit; I call Fred conceited.’
‘傲慢不是自负；我称弗雷德自负。

‘I wish no one said any worse of him. He should be more careful. Mrs. Waule has been telling uncle that Fred is very unsteady.’ Mary spoke from a girlish impulse which got the better of her judgment. There was a vague uneasiness associated with the word ‘unsteady’ which she hoped Rosamond might say something to dissipate. But she purposely abstained from mentioning Mrs. Waule’s more special insinuation.
“我希望没有人对他说更坏的话。他应该更加小心。沃勒夫人一直告诉叔叔，弗雷德很不稳定。”玛丽出于少女般的冲动说话，但她的判断力却受到了影响。 “不稳定”这个词伴随着一种模糊的不安，她希望罗莎蒙德能说点什么来驱散这种不安。但她故意没有提及沃勒夫人更特别的暗示。

‘Oh, Fred is horrid!’ said Rosamond. She would not have allowed herself so unsuitable a word to any one but Mary.
“哦，弗雷德太可怕了！”罗莎蒙德说。除了玛丽之外，她不会让自己对任何人说出如此不合适的话。

‘What do you mean by horrid?’
“你所说的可怕是什么意思？”

‘He is so idle, and makes papa so angry, and says he will not take orders.’
“他太懒了，让爸爸很生气，还说他不会接受命令。”

‘I think Fred is quite right.’
“我认为弗雷德说得很对。”

‘How can you say he is quite right, Mary? I thought you had more sense of religion.’
“你怎么能说他是完全正确的呢，玛丽？我以为你更有宗教意识。

‘He is not fit to be a clergyman.’
“他不适合当牧师。”

‘But he ought to be fit.’—‘Well, then, he is not what he ought to be. I know some other people who are in the same case.’
“但他应该很健康。”——“好吧，那么，他并不是他应该成为的样子。我认识其他一些人也有同样的情况。

‘But no one approves of them. I should not like to marry a clergyman; but there must be clergymen.’
“但没有人赞同他们。我不想嫁给一个牧师；但必须有牧师。”

‘It does not follow that Fred must be one.’
“这并不意味着弗雷德一定是其中之一。”

‘But when papa has been at the expense of educating him for it! And only suppose, if he should have no fortune left him?’
“但是爸爸却为此牺牲了他的教育！”试想一下，如果他没有财产了怎么办？

‘I can suppose that very well,’ said Mary, dryly.
“我猜得很好，”玛丽干巴巴地说。

‘Then I wonder you can defend Fred,’ said Rosamond, inclined to push this point.
“那我不知道你能不能为弗雷德辩护，”罗莎蒙德说道，他倾向于进一步强调这一点。

‘I don’t defend him,’ said Mary, laughing; ‘I would defend any parish from having him for a clergyman.’
“我不为他辩护，”玛丽笑着说道。 “我会捍卫任何教区不让他担任牧师。”

‘But of course if he were a clergyman, he must be different.’
“但当然，如果他是一名牧师，他一定会有所不同。”

‘Yes, he would be a great hypocrite; and he is not that yet.’
“是的，他会是一个大伪君子；但他还不是那样。

‘It is of no use saying anything to you, Mary. You always take Fred’s part.’
“对你说什么都没有用，玛丽。你总是站在弗雷德的一边。

‘Why should I not take his part?’ said Mary, lighting up. ‘He would take mine. He is the only person who takes the least trouble to oblige me.’
“为什么我不应该加入他的行列呢？”玛丽说着，脸上的光亮了。 ‘他会拿走我的。他是唯一一个不费吹灰之力就答应我的人。

‘You make me feel very uncomfortable, Mary,’ said Rosamond, with her gravest mildness; ‘I would not tell mamma for the world.’
“你让我感觉很不舒服，玛丽，”罗莎蒙德语气极其温和地说。 “我绝对不会告诉妈妈。”

‘What would you not tell her?’ said Mary, angrily.
“你有什么不告诉她的？”玛丽生气地说。

‘Pray do not go into a rage, Mary,’ said Rosamond, mildly as ever.
“请不要发怒，玛丽，”罗莎蒙德一如既往地温和地说。

‘If your mamma is afraid that Fred will make me an offer, tell her that I would not marry him if he asked me. But he is not going to do so, that I am aware. He certainly never has asked me.’
“如果你妈妈害怕弗雷德向我求婚，请告诉她，如果他向我求婚，我就不会嫁给他。”但据我所知，他不会这样做。他当然从来没有问过我。

‘Mary, you are always so violent.’
“玛丽，你总是那么暴力。”

‘And you are always so exasperating.’
“而你总是那么令人恼火。”

‘I? What can you blame me for?’
'我？你能怪我什么？

‘Oh, blameless people are always the most exasperating. There is the bell—I think we must go down.’
唉，无辜的人总是最令人气愤的。钟声响了——我想我们必须下去了。

‘I did not mean to quarrel,’ said Rosamond, putting on her hat.
“我无意吵架，”罗莎蒙德戴上帽子说道。

‘Quarrel? Nonsense; we have not quarrelled. If one is not to get into a rage sometimes, what is the good of being friends?’
'吵架？废话;我们没有吵架。如果一个人有时不发脾气，那么做朋友又有什么好处呢？

‘Am I to repeat what you have said?’ ‘Just as you please. I never say what I am afraid of having repeated. But let us go down.’
“我要重复你说过的话吗？” “随你便。”我从不说出我害怕重复的话。但让我们下去吧。

Mr. Lydgate was rather late this morning, but the visitors stayed long enough to see him; for Mr. Featherstone asked Rosamond to sing to him, and she herself was-so kind as to propose a second favorite song of his—‘Flow on, thou shining river’—after she had sung ‘Home, sweet home’ (which she detested). This hard-headed old Overreach approved of the sentimental song, as the suitable garnish for girls, and also as fundamentally fine, sentiment being the right thing for a song.
利德盖特先生今天早上来得比较晚，但来访者们却逗留了足够长的时间来见他。因为费瑟斯通先生请罗莎蒙德给他唱歌，而她本人也非常友善地提出了他第二喜欢的歌曲——“继续流动，你闪亮的河流”——在她唱完“家，甜蜜的家”之后（她唱了这首歌）厌恶）。这位头脑冷静的老奥弗瑞奇很欣赏这首伤感的歌曲，认为它适合女孩子的装饰，而且从根本上来说，情感是一首歌的正确选择。

Mr. Featherstone was still applauding the last performance, and assuring missy that her voice was as clear as a blackbird’s, when Mr. Lydgate’s horse passed the window.
当利德盖特先生的马驶过窗户时，费瑟斯通先生仍在为最后一场表演鼓掌，并向小姐保证她的声音像黑鸟一样清晰。

His dull expectation of the usual disagreeable routine with an aged patient—who can hardly believe that medicine would not ‘set him up’ if the doctor were only clever enough—added to his general disbelief in Middlemarch charms, made a doubly effective background to this vision of Rosamond, whom old Featherstone made haste ostentatiously to introduce as his niece, though he had never thought it worth while to speak of Mary Garth in that light. Nothing escaped Lydgate in Rosamond’s graceful behavior: how delicately she waived the notice which the old man’s want of taste had thrust upon her by a quiet gravity, not showing her dimples on the wrong occasion, but showing them afterwards in speaking to Mary, to whom she addressed herself with so much good-natured interest, that Lydgate, after quickly examining Mary more fully than he had done before, saw an adorable kindness in Rosamond’s eyes. But Mary from some cause looked rather out of temper.
他对老年病人通常不愉快的例行公事抱有迟钝的期望——他很难相信，只要医生足够聪明，医学就不会“让他生病”——增加了他对米德尔马契咒语的普遍怀疑，为这件事提供了双重有效的背景。老费瑟斯通急忙招摇地介绍罗莎蒙德为他的侄女，尽管他从来不认为值得从这个角度谈论玛丽·加斯。罗莎蒙德优雅的举止没有什么能逃过利德盖特的眼睛：她多么巧妙地避开了老人因无趣而以一种安静的重力强加在她身上的注意，没有在错误的场合露出酒窝，而是在事后与玛丽交谈时露出来。她以如此善意的兴趣对自己说话，利德盖特很快比以前更全面地审视了玛丽，在罗莎蒙德的眼中看到了可爱的善意。但玛丽不知为何看起来脾气不太好。

‘Miss Rosy has been singing me a song—you’ve nothing to say against that, eh, doctor?’ said Mr. Featherstone. ‘I like it better than your physic.’
“罗西小姐一直在给我唱一首歌——你没有什么可反对的，嗯，医生？”费瑟斯通先生说。 “比起你的身体，我更喜欢它。”

‘That has made me forget how the time was going,’ said Rosamond, rising to reach her hat, which she had laid aside before singing, so that her flower-like head on its white stem was seen in perfection above-her riding-habit. ‘Fred, we must really go.’
“这让我忘记了时间是怎么过的，”罗莎蒙德说着，站起身去拿她的帽子，她在唱歌前把帽子放在一边，这样她那朵花般的头戴在白色的茎上，完美地出现在她的骑马之上——习惯。 “弗雷德，我们真的得走了。”

‘Very good,’ said Fred, who had his own reasons for not being in the best spirits, and wanted to get away.
“很好，”弗雷德说，他有自己的原因，心情不好，想要离开。

‘Miss Vincy is a musician?’ said Lydgate, following her with his eyes. (Every nerve and muscle in Rosamond was adjusted to the consciousness that she was being looked at. She was by nature an actress of parts that entered into her physique: she even acted her own character, and so well, that she did not know it to be precisely her own.)
“文西小姐是一位音乐家？”利德盖特问道，目光追随着她。 （罗莎蒙德的每一根神经和肌肉都适应了她正在被注视的意识。她天生就是一个演员，她的身体部分融入了她的性格：她甚至扮演了自己的角色，而且演得如此出色，以至于她自己都不知道完全是她自己的。）

‘The best in Middlemarch, I’ll be bound,’ said Mr. Featherstone, ‘let the next be who she will. Eh, Fred? Speak up for your sister.’
“米德尔马契最优秀的人，我会受约束的，”费瑟斯通先生说，“让下一个是谁吧。”呃，弗雷德？为你妹妹说话。

‘I’m afraid I’m out of court, sir. My evidence would be good for nothing.’
“恐怕我不在法庭上，先生。我的证据毫无用处。

‘Middlemarch has not a very high standard, uncle,’ said Rosamond, with a pretty lightness, going towards her whip, which lay at a distance.
“叔叔，米德尔马契的标准并不高。”罗莎蒙德轻快地说，走向远处的鞭子。

Lydgate was quick in anticipating her. He reached the whip before she did, and turned to present it to her. She bowed and looked at him: he of course was looking at her, and their eyes met with that peculiar meeting which is never arrived at by effort, but seems like a sudden divine clearance of haze. I think Lydgate turned a little paler than usual, but Rosamond blushed deeply and felt a certain astonishment. After that, she was really anxious to go, and did not know what sort of stupidity her uncle was talking of when she went to shake hands with him.
利德盖特很快就预见到了她。他先于她拿到了鞭子，然后转身把它递给了她。她鞠躬，看着他：他当然也在看着她，他们的目光相遇了，这种奇特的相遇从来都不是通过努力就能实现的，但似乎突然神圣地驱散了阴霾。我觉得利德盖特的脸色比平常更苍白了一点，但罗莎蒙德却脸红得很厉害，并感到了某种惊讶。之后她实在是着急了，也不知道她去跟舅舅握手的时候在说什么蠢事。

Yet this result, which she took to be a mutual impression, called falling in love, was just what Rosamond had contemplated beforehand. Ever since that important new arrival in Middlemarch she had woven a little future, of which something like this scene was the necessary beginning. Strangers, whether wrecked and clinging to a raft, or duly escorted and accompanied by portmanteaus, have always had a circumstantial fascination for the virgin mind, against which native merit has urged itself in vain. And a stranger was absolutely necessary to Rosamond’s social romance, which had always turned on a lover and bridegroom who was not a Middlemarcher, and who had no connections at all like her own: of late, indeed, the construction seemed to demand that he should somehow be related to a baronet. Now that she and the stranger had met, reality proved much more moving than anticipation, and Rosamond could not doubt that this was the great epoch of her life. She judged of her own symptoms as those of awakening love, and she held it still more natural that Mr. Lydgate should have fallen in love at first sight of her. These things happened so often at balls, and why not by the morning light, when the complexion showed all the better for it? Rosamond, though no older than Mary, was rather used to being fallen in love with; but she, for her part, had remained indifferent and fastidiously critical towards both fresh sprig and faded bachelor. And here was Mr. Lydgate suddenly corresponding to her ideal, being altogether foreign to Middlemarch, carrying a certain air of distinction congruous with good family, and possessing connections which offered vistas of that middle-class heaven, rank: a man of talent, also, whom it would be especially delightful to enslave: in fact, a man who had touched her nature quite newly, and brought a vivid interest into her life which was better than any fancied ‘might-be’ such as she was in the habit of opposing to the actual.
然而这个她认为是相互印象的结果，称为坠入爱河，正是罗莎蒙德事先考虑过的。自从那个重要的新人来到米德尔马奇之后，她就编织了一个小小的未来，像这样的场景就是这个未来的必要开始。陌生人，无论是遇难的、抓住木筏的，还是受到适当护送和陪伴的，总是对处女的心灵有一种间接的迷恋，而与生俱来的优点却徒劳地反对这种心灵。对于罗莎蒙德的社交罗曼史来说，一个陌生人是绝对必要的，罗莎蒙德的社交罗曼史总是以一个不是米德尔马彻的情人和新郎为对象，而且她根本没有像她自己那样的联系：最近，确实，结构似乎要求他应该不知何故与男爵有关。现在她和陌生人见面了，事实证明现实比预期更令人感动，罗莎蒙德毫不怀疑这是她一生中最伟大的时代。她认为自己的症状是爱情的觉醒，而且她认为利德盖特先生对她一见钟情就更自然了。这些事情在舞会上经常发生，为什么不在晨曦中呢？那时肤色会因此而变得更好呢？罗莎蒙德虽然不比玛丽大，但已经习惯了被人爱着。但她对新鲜的小枝和褪色的单身汉却保持着冷漠和挑剔的批评。这是先生。 利德盖特突然符合她的理想，与米德尔马契完全陌生，带着某种与良好家庭相称的杰出气质，并拥有提供中产阶级天堂远景的联系，等级：一个有才华的人，他将是尤其令人高兴的是奴役：事实上，这个男人刚刚触及了她的本性，给她的生活带来了生动的兴趣，这比任何幻想的“可能的”都要好，比如她习惯于反对现实。

Thus, in riding home, both the brother and the sister were preoccupied and inclined to be silent. Rosamond, whose basis for her structure had the usual airy slightness, was of remarkably detailed and realistic imagination when the foundation had been once presupposed; and before they had ridden a mile she was far on in the costume and introductions of her wedded life, having determined on her house in Middle-march, and foreseen the visits she would pay to her husband’s high-bred relatives at a distance, whose finished manners she could appropriate as thoroughly as she had done her school accomplishments, preparing herself thus for vaguer elevations which might ultimately come. There was nothing financial, still less sordid, in her previsions: she cared about what were considered refinements, and not about the money that was to pay for them.
于是，在回家的路上，兄妹俩都心事重重，都沉默不语。罗莎蒙德的结构基础具有通常的轻盈纤细，当基础一旦被预设时，她就具有非常详细和现实的想象力。他们还没有骑一英里，她就已经穿上了服装，介绍了她的婚姻生活，已经决定了她在三月中旬的房子，并预见到她将远方拜访她丈夫的高教养亲戚，他们的她可以像完成学业一样彻底地运用完成的礼仪，从而为自己最终可能实现的模糊提升做好准备。她的预见中没有任何财务方面的内容，更没有肮脏的内容：她关心的是所谓的精致，而不是支付这些费用的钱。

Fred’s mind, on the other hand, was busy with an anxiety which even his ready hopefulness could not immediately quell. He saw no way of eluding Featherstone’s stupid demand without incurring consequences which he liked less even than the task of fulfilling it. His father was already out of humor with him, and would be still more so if he were the occasion of any additional coolness between his own family and the Bulstrodes. Then, he himself hated having to go and speak to his uncle Bulstrode, and perhaps after drinking wine he had said many foolish things about Featherstone’s property, and these had been magnified by report. Fred felt that he made a wretched figure as a fellow who bragged about expectations from a queer old miser like Featherstone, and went to beg for certificates at his bidding. But—those expectations! He really had them, and he saw no agreeable alternative if he gave them up; besides, he had lately made a debt which galled him extremely, and old Featherstone had almost bargained to pay it off. The whole affair was miserably small: his debts were small, even his expectations were not anything so very magnificent. Fred had known men to whom he would have been ashamed of confessing the smallness of his scrapes. Such ruminations naturally produced a streak of misanthropic bitterness. To be born the son of a Middlemarch manufacturer, and inevitable heir to nothing in particular, while such men as Mainwaring and Vyan—certainly life was a poor business, when a spirited young fellow, with a good appetite for the best of everything, had so poor an outlook.
另一方面，弗雷德的心里却充满了焦虑，即使他满怀希望也无法立即平息这种焦虑。他看不出有什么办法可以逃避费瑟斯通愚蠢的要求而不招致后果，而他更喜欢完成这个要求的任务。他的父亲已经对他失去了幽默感，如果他成为他自己的家人和布尔斯特罗德家族之间任何额外冷淡的契机，那就更是如此了。然后，他自己也讨厌去和他的叔叔布尔斯特罗德说话，也许喝完酒后，他说了很多关于费瑟斯通财产的愚蠢的话，而这些都被报道放大了。弗雷德觉得自己的形象很糟糕，因为他吹嘘费瑟斯通这样一个奇怪的老守财奴的期望，并按照他的吩咐去乞讨证书。但是——那些期望！他确实拥有它们，而且如果他放弃它们，他也看不到更好的选择。此外，他最近欠了一笔债，这让他非常恼火，老费瑟斯通几乎讨价还价。整个事情小得可怜：他的债务很少，甚至他的期望也不是那么宏伟。弗雷德认识一些人，如果向他们承认自己的小擦伤，他会感到羞愧。这样的沉思自然会产生一丝厌世的苦涩。身为米德尔马契制造商的儿子，不可避免地成为一无所有的继承人，而像梅因沃林和维安这样的人——当然，生活是一件糟糕的事情，当一个精力充沛的年轻人，对一切最好的东西都有很好的胃口，前景如此糟糕。

It had not occurred to Fred that the introduction of Bulstrode’s name in the matter was a fiction of old Featherstone’s; nor could this have made any difference to his position. He saw plainly enough that the old man wanted to exercise his power by tormenting him a little, and also probably to get some satisfaction out of seeing him on unpleasant terms with Bulstrode. Fred fancied that he saw to the bottom of his uncle Featherstone’s soul, though in reality half what he saw there was no more than the reflex of his own inclinations. The difficult task of knowing another soul is not for young gentlemen whose consciousness is chiefly made up of their own wishes.
弗雷德没有想到，在这件事中提到布尔斯特罗德的名字是老费瑟斯通的杜撰。这也不会对他的立场产生任何影响。他看得很清楚，老人想通过稍微折磨他来行使自己的权力，也可能是因为看到他与布尔斯特罗德的关系不愉快而得到一些满足。弗雷德以为他看到了叔叔费瑟斯通灵魂的深处，尽管实际上他所看到的有一半只不过是他自己倾向的反射。了解另一个灵魂的艰巨任务并不适合那些意识主要由自己的愿望组成的年轻绅士。

Fred’s main point of debate with himself was, whether he should tell his father, or try to get through the affair without his father’s knowledge. It was probably Mrs. Waule who had been talking about him; and if Mary Garth had repeated Mrs. Waule’s report to Rosamond, it would be sure to reach his father, who would as surely question him about it. He said to Rosamond, as they slackened their pace—
弗雷德与自己争论的主要问题是，他是否应该告诉他的父亲，或者试图在他父亲不知情的情况下解决这件事。可能是沃勒太太一直在谈论他。如果玛丽·加思向罗莎蒙德重复沃勒夫人的​​报告，他的父亲肯定会收到报告，而他的父亲也肯定会就此质问他。当他们放慢脚步时，他对罗莎蒙德说道——

‘Rosy, did Mary tell you that Mrs. Waule had said anything about me?’
“罗西，玛丽有没有告诉你沃勒夫人说过任何关于我的事情？”

‘Yes, indeed, she did.’
“是的，确实，她做到了。”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘That you were very unsteady.’
“你非常不稳定。”

‘Was that all?’
“就这些了吗？”

‘I should think that was enough, Fred.’
“我想这已经足够了，弗雷德。”

‘You are sure she said no more?’
“你确定她不再说话了吗？”

‘Mary mentioned nothing else. But really, Fred, I think you ought to be ashamed.’
“玛丽没有提到其他任何事情。但说实话，弗雷德，我认为你应该感到羞耻。”

‘Oh, fudge! Don’t lecture me. What did Mary say about it?’
'胡说八道！别给我讲课。玛丽对此怎么说？

‘I am not obliged to tell you. You care so very much what Mary says, and you are too rude to allow me to speak.’
“我没有义务告诉你。你非常关心玛丽说的话，但你太粗鲁了，不让我说话。”

‘Of course I care what Mary says. She is the best girl I know.’
“我当然关心玛丽说什么。她是我认识的最好的女孩。

‘I should never have thought she was a girl to fall in love with.’
“我从来不应该认为她是一个值得爱上的女孩。”

‘How do you know what men would fall in love with? Girls never know.’
‘你怎么知道男人会爱上什么？女孩们永远不知道。

‘At least, Fred, let me advise YOU not to fall in love with her, for she says she would not marry you if you asked her.’
“至少，弗雷德，让我建议你不要爱上她，因为她说如果你向她求婚，她就不会嫁给你。”

‘She might have waited till I did ask her.’
“她可能会等到我问她为止。”

‘I knew it would nettle you, Fred.’
“我知道这会惹恼你，弗雷德。”

‘Not at all. She would not have said so if you had not provoked her.’ Before reaching home, Fred concluded that he would tell the whole affair as simply as possible to his father, who might perhaps take on himself the unpleasant business of speaking to Bulstrode.
'一点也不。如果你没有激怒她，她就不会这么说。”在回家之前，弗雷德得出结论，他会尽可能简单地将整个事件告诉他的父亲，他的父亲也许会承担与布尔斯特罗德交谈的不愉快的事情。

BOOK II.
第二册。

OLD AND YOUNG.
老人与年轻人。


Chapter XIII
第十三章

1st Gent. How class your man?—as better than the most,
第一绅士。你的男人怎么样？——比大多数人都好，

Or, seeming better, worse beneath that cloak?
或者，在那件斗篷下看起来更好，或更糟？

As saint or knave, pilgrim or hypocrite?
作为圣人还是无赖，朝圣者还是伪君子？

2d Gent. Nay, tell me how you class your wealth of books
2d 绅士。不，告诉我你如何对你的书籍进行分类

The drifted relics of all time.
历代漂流的遗迹。

As well sort them at once by size and livery:
也可以按尺寸和涂装对它们进行排序：

Vellum, tall copies, and the common calf
牛皮纸、高仿品和普通小牛皮

Will hardly cover more diversity
很难涵盖更多的多样性

Than all your labels cunningly devised
胜过你精心设计的所有标签

To class your unread authors.
对未读过的作者进行分类。

In consequence of what he had heard from Fred, Mr. Vincy determined to speak with Mr. Bulstrode in his private room at the Bank at half-past one, when he was usually free from other callers. But a visitor had come in at one o’clock, and Mr. Bulstrode had so much to say to him, that there was little chance of the interview being over in half an hour. The banker’s speech was fluent, but it was also copious, and he used up an appreciable amount of time in brief meditative pauses. Do not imagine his sickly aspect to have been of the yellow, black-haired sort: he had a pale blond skin, thin gray-besprinkled brown hair, light-gray eyes, and a large forehead. Loud men called his subdued tone an undertone, and sometimes implied that it was inconsistent with openness; though there seems to be no reason why a loud man should not be given to concealment of anything except his own voice, unless it can be shown that Holy Writ has placed the seat of candor in the lungs. Mr. Bulstrode had also a deferential bending attitude in listening, and an apparently fixed attentiveness in his eyes which made those persons who thought themselves worth hearing infer that he was seeking the utmost improvement from their discourse. Others, who expected to make no great figure, disliked this kind of moral lantern turned on them. If you are not proud of your cellar, there is no thrill of satisfaction in seeing your guest hold up his wine-glass to the light and look judicial. Such joys are reserved for conscious merit. Hence Mr. Bulstrode’s close attention was not agreeable to the publicans and sinners in Middlemarch; it was attributed by some to his being a Pharisee, and by others to his being Evangelical. Less superficial reasoners among them wished to know who his father and grandfather were, observing that five-and-twenty years ago nobody had ever heard of a Bulstrode in Middlemarch. To his present visitor, Lydgate, the scrutinizing look was a matter of indifference: he simply formed an unfavorable opinion of the banker’s constitution, and concluded that he had an eager inward life with little enjoyment of tangible things.
根据弗雷德的说法，文西先生决定凌晨一点半在银行的私人房间里与布尔斯特罗德先生交谈，这个时间他通常没有其他来电者。但是一点钟有一位访客进来了，布尔斯特罗德先生有很多话要对他说，所以采访在半小时内结束的可能性很小。银行家的演讲很流利，但也很丰富，他花了相当多的时间进行短暂的冥想停顿。不要想象他病态的外表是黄黑头发的那种：他有苍白的金色皮肤，稀疏的灰色头发，浅灰色的眼睛和宽大的额头。大声说话的人称他柔和的语气为低声调，有时暗示这与开放性不一致。尽管似乎没有理由认为大声喧哗的人除了自己的声音之外不应该隐瞒任何事情，除非可以证明圣经已经将坦率的地位放在了肺部。布尔斯特罗德先生在聆听时也有一种恭敬的弯腰态度，眼神中明显有一种专注的专注，这使那些自认为值得倾听的人推断出他正在从他们的演讲中寻求最大的改进。另一些人则不希望自己出人头地，不喜欢这种道德灯笼照在他们身上。如果你不为你的酒窖感到自豪，那么看到你的客人将酒杯举到灯光下并表现出公正的态度时，你也不会感到满足。这种快乐是为有意识的功绩而保留的。因此，布尔斯特罗德先生的密切关注令米德尔马契的税吏和罪人感到不愉快。一些人认为他是法利赛人，另一些人则认为他是福音派人士。 他们中不那么肤浅的推理者希望知道他的父亲和祖父是谁，因为他们注意到五年和二十年前没有人听说过米德尔马契的布尔斯特罗德。对于现在的来访者利德盖特来说，这种审视的目光是冷漠的：他只是对银行家的体质形成了不利的看法，并得出结论认为，他的内心生活很热切，很少享受有形的东西。

‘I shall be exceedingly obliged if you will look in on me here occasionally, Mr. Lydgate,’ the banker observed, after a brief pause. ‘If, as I dare to hope, I have the privilege of finding you a valuable coadjutor in the interesting matter of hospital management, there will be many questions which we shall need to discuss in private. As to the new hospital, which is nearly finished, I shall consider what you have said about the advantages of the special destination for fevers. The decision will rest with me, for though Lord Medlicote has given the land and timber for the building, he is not disposed to give his personal attention to the object.’
“利德盖特先生，如果您能偶尔来这里看看我，我将非常感激。”短暂停顿后，银行家说道。 “如果，正如我敢于希望的那样，我有幸在医院管理这一有趣的问题上为您找到一位有价值的助手，那么我们将需要私下讨论许多问题。至于即将竣工的新医院，我会考虑一下你所说的专门治疗发烧的地方的优点。这个决定将由我来决定，因为尽管梅德利科特勋爵已经为这座建筑提供了土地和木材，但他并不打算亲自关注这个项目。

‘There are few things better worth the pains in a provincial town like this,’ said Lydgate. ‘A fine fever hospital in addition to the old infirmary might be the nucleus of a medical school here, when once we get our medical reforms; and what would do more for medical education than the spread of such schools over the country? A born provincial man who has a grain of public spirit as well as a few ideas, should do what he can to resist the rush of everything that is a little better than common towards London. Any valid professional aims may often find a freer, if not a richer field, in the provinces.’
利德盖特说：“在像这样的省城里，没有什么比这更值得付出努力的了。” “当我们进行医疗改革时，除了旧医务室之外，还有一家不错的发热医院可能是这里医学院的核心；还有什么比在全国范围内开设这样的学校更能促进医学教育的发展呢？一个天生的乡下人，既有一点公共精神，又有一点点想法，就应该尽其所能，抵制一切比平常好一点的事物涌向伦敦。任何有效的职业目标往往可以在外省找到更自由的领域，即使不是更丰富的领域。

One of Lydgate’s gifts was a voice habitually deep and sonorous, yet capable of becoming very low and gentle at the right moment. About his ordinary bearing there was a certain fling, a fearless expectation of success, a confidence in his own powers and integrity much fortified by contempt for petty obstacles or seductions of which he had had no experience. But this proud openness was made lovable by an expression of unaffected good-will. Mr. Bulstrode perhaps liked him the better for the difference between them in pitch and manners; he certainly liked him the better, as Rosamond did, for being a stranger in Middlemarch. One can begin so many things with a new person!— even begin to be a better man.
利德盖特的天赋之一是他的声音通常低沉而响亮，但在适当的时候又能够变得非常低沉和温柔。在他平常的举止中，有一种放纵的冲动，一种对成功无所畏惧的期望，对自己的力量和正直的信心，这种信心因蔑视他从未经历过的琐碎障碍或诱惑而更加坚定。但这种自豪的坦诚因不做作的善意表达而变得可爱。布尔斯特罗德先生也许更喜欢他，因为他们在音调和举止上的差异。他当然更喜欢他，就像罗莎蒙德一样，因为他是米德尔马契的陌生人。一个人可以和一个新的人一起开始很多事情！——甚至开始成为一个更好的人。

‘I shall rejoice to furnish your zeal with fuller opportunities,’ Mr. Bulstrode answered; ‘I mean, by confiding to you the superintendence of my new hospital, should a maturer knowledge favor that issue, for I am determined that so great an object shall not be shackled by our two physicians. Indeed, I am encouraged to consider your advent to this town as a gracious indication that a more manifest blessing is now to be awarded to my efforts, which have hitherto been much with stood. With regard to the old infirmary, we have gained the initial point—I mean your election. And now I hope you will not shrink from incurring a certain amount of jealousy and dislike from your professional brethren by presenting yourself as a reformer.’
“我很高兴能为你的热情提供更充分的机会，”布尔斯特罗德先生回答道。 “我的意思是，通过向您信任我的新医院的管理者，如果更成熟的知识有利于这个问题，因为我决心如此伟大的目标不会被我们的两位医生所束缚。事实上，我很高兴看到你来到这个小镇，这是一个仁慈的迹象，表明我的努力现在将得到更明显的祝福，而迄今为止，我的努力一直受到支持。关于旧医务室，我们已经得到了最初的一点——我指的是你的选举。现在，我希望你不要因为表现出改革者的形象而招致专业弟兄的一定程度的嫉妒和厌恶。

‘I will not profess bravery,’ said Lydgate, smiling, ‘but I acknowledge a good deal of pleasure in fighting, and I should not care for my profession, if I did not believe that better methods were to be found and enforced there as well as everywhere else.’
“我不会自称勇敢，”利德盖特微笑着说，“但我承认战斗有很大的乐趣，如果我不相信在那里可以找到并实施更好的方法，我就不应该关心我的职业。以及其他地方。

‘The standard of that profession is low in Middlemarch, my dear sir,’ said the banker. ‘I mean in knowledge and skill; not in social status, for our medical men are most of them connected with respectable townspeople here. My own imperfect health has induced me to give some attention to those palliative resources which the divine mercy has placed within our reach. I have consulted eminent men in the metropolis, and I am painfully aware of the backwardness under which medical treatment labors in our provincial districts.’
“亲爱的先生，米德尔马契这个职业的水平很低，”银行家说。 “我指的是知识和技能；不是社会地位，因为我们的医务人员大多与这里受人尊敬的市民有联系。我自己不完美的健康状况促使我对神圣仁慈为我们提供的那些姑息资源给予一些关注。我咨询过大城市的知名人士，痛苦地意识到我们省区医疗工作的落后。

‘Yes;—with our present medical rules and education, one must be satisfied now and then to meet with a fair practitioner. As to all the higher questions which determine the starting-point of a diagnosis—as to the philosophy of medial evidence—any glimmering of these can only come from a scientific culture of which country practitioners have usually no more notion than the man in the moon.’
“是的；——以我们目前的医疗规则和教育，人们必须满足于时不时地见到一位公正的医生。至于所有决定诊断起点的更高问题——至于医学证据的哲学——其中的任何一丝曙光都只能来自于科学文化，而乡村从业者通常对科学文化的了解就像月球上的人一样。 .'

Mr. Bulstrode, bending and looking intently, found the form which Lydgate had given to his agreement not quite suited to his comprehension. Under such circumstances a judicious man changes the topic and enters on ground where his own gifts may be more useful.
布尔斯特罗德先生弯下腰，专心致志地看着，发现利德盖特同意的形式不太适合他的理解。在这种情况下，明智的人会改变话题，进入他自己的天赋可能更有用的地方。

‘I am aware,’ he said, ‘that the peculiar bias of medical ability is towards material means. Nevertheless, Mr. Lydgate, I hope we shall not vary in sentiment as to a measure in which you are not likely to be actively concerned, but in which your sympathetic concurrence may be an aid to me. You recognize, I hope; the existence of spiritual interests in your patients?’
“我知道，”他说，“医学能力的特殊倾向是偏重物质手段。尽管如此，利德盖特先生，我希望我们对于一项你不太可能积极关注的措施不要有不同的看法，但你的同情同意可能会对我有所帮助。我希望你能认出；你的病人是否存在精神利益？

‘Certainly I do. But those words are apt to cover different meanings to different minds.’
“我当然愿意。”但这些词对于不同的人来说往往有不同的含义。

‘Precisely. And on such subjects wrong teaching is as fatal as no teaching. Now a point which I have much at heart to secure is a new regulation as to clerical attendance at the old infirmary. The building stands in Mr. Farebrother’s parish. You know Mr. Farebrother?’
'恰恰。在这些问题上，错误的教导与不教导一样致命。现在我非常想确保的是关于旧医务室的文书出勤的新规定。这座建筑位于费雷布拉泽先生的教区。你认识费雷布拉泽先生吗？

‘I have seen him. He gave me his vote. I must call to thank him. He seems a very bright pleasant little fellow. And I understand he is a naturalist.’
‘我见过他。他给了我他的选票。我必须打电话感谢他。他看起来是一个非常聪明可爱的小家伙。我知道他是一位博物学家。

‘Mr. Farebrother, my dear sir, is a man deeply painful to contemplate. I suppose there is not a clergyman in this country who has greater talents.’ Mr. Bulstrode paused and looked meditative.
'先生。亲爱的先生，费雷兄弟是一个令人深感痛苦的人。我想这个国家没有一个牧师比他更有才华了。”布尔斯特罗德先生停顿了一下，看上去陷入了沉思。

‘I have not yet been pained by finding any excessive talent in Middlemarch,’ said Lydgate, bluntly.
“我还没有因为在米德尔马契发现任何过多的人才而感到痛苦，”利德盖特直言不讳地说。

‘What I desire,’ Mr. Bulstrode continued, looking still more serious, ‘is that Mr. Farebrother’s attendance at the hospital should be superseded by the appointment of a chaplain—of Mr. Tyke, in fact— and that no other spiritual aid should be called in.’
“我所希望的，”布尔斯特罗德先生继续说道，他的表情更加严肃，“是任命一位牧师——事实上是泰克先生——来取代法尔布拉泽先生去医院的服务，并且没有其他精神援助应该被叫进来。

‘As a medial man I could have no opinion on such a point unless I knew Mr. Tyke, and even then I should require to know the cases in which he was applied.’ Lydgate smiled, but he was bent on being circumspect.
“作为一名医疗人员，除非我认识泰克先生，否则我在这一点上不会有任何意见，即便如此，我也应该要求知道他所适用的案例。”利德盖特微笑着，但他决心保持谨慎。

‘Of course you cannot enter fully into the merits of this measure at present. But’—here Mr. Bulstrode began to speak with a more chiselled emphasis—‘the subject is likely to be referred to the medical board of the infirmary, and what I trust I may ask of you is, that in virtue of the cooperation between us which I now look forward to, you will not, so far as you are concerned, be influenced by my opponents in this matter.’
“当然，你目前还不能完全了解这项措施的优点。但是”——布尔斯特罗德先生开始以一种更加尖锐的口吻开始讲话——“这个问题可能会被转交给医务室的医疗委员会，我相信我可以要求你的是，凭借我现在所期待的我们，就你们而言，在这件事上不会受到我的对手的影响。

‘I hope I shall have nothing to do with clerical disputes,’ said Lydgate. ‘The path I have chosen is to work well in my own profession.’
“我希望我与文书纠纷无关，”利德盖特说。 “我选择的道路是做好自己的职业。”

‘My responsibility, Mr. Lydgate, is of a broader kind. With me, indeed, this question is one of sacred accountableness; whereas with my opponents, I have good reason to say that it is an occasion for gratifying a spirit of worldly opposition. But I shall not therefore drop one iota of my convictions, or cease to identify myself with that truth which an evil generation hates. I have devoted myself to this object of hospital-improvement, but I will boldly confess to you, Mr. Lydgate, that I should have no interest in hospitals if I believed that nothing more was concerned therein than the cure of mortal diseases. I have another ground of action, and in the face of persecution I will not conceal it.’
“利德盖特先生，我的责任范围更广。事实上，对我来说，这个问题是一个神圣的责任问题。而对于我的对手，我有充分的理由说，这是满足世俗反对精神的一个机会。但我不会因此而放弃我的一丁点信念，也不会停止认同邪恶一代所憎恨的真理。我全身心投入到改善医院的目标中，但我要大胆地向你承认，利德盖特先生，如果我相信医院除了治愈致命疾病之外什么都不关心，我就不会对医院感兴趣。我还有另一个行动理由，面对迫害我不会隐瞒。

Mr. Bulstrode’s voice had become a loud and agitated whisper as he said the last words.
布尔斯特罗德先生说最后一句话时，他的声音变得响亮而激动的低语。

‘There we certainly differ,’ said Lydgate. But he was not sorry that the door was now opened, and Mr. Vincy was announced. That florid sociable personage was become more interesting to him since he had seen Rosamond. Not that, like her, he had been weaving any future in which their lots were united; but a man naturally remembers a charming girl with pleasure, and is willing to dine where he may see her again. Before he took leave, Mr. Vincy had given that invitation which he had been ‘in no hurry about,’ for Rosamond at breakfast had mentioned that she thought her uncle Featherstone had taken the new doctor into great favor.
“在这一点上我们确实存在分歧，”利德盖特说。但他并不感到遗憾，门现在打开了，文西先生也被宣布了。自从见到罗莎蒙德后，他对那个面色红润、善于交际的人物更加感兴趣了。并不是说，他像她一样，一直在编织他们的命运团结在一起的未来。但男人自然会高兴地记住一个迷人的女孩，并且愿意在可以再次见到她的地方吃饭。在离开之前，文西先生发出了他“并不着急”的邀请，因为罗莎蒙德在早餐时提到，她认为她的叔叔费瑟斯通很受这位新医生的青睐。

Mr. Bulstrode, alone with his brother-in-law, poured himself out a glass of water, and opened a sandwich-box.
布尔斯特罗德先生独自和他的姐夫给自己倒了一杯水，打开了一个三明治盒。

‘I cannot persuade you to adopt my regimen, Vincy?’
“我无法说服你采用我的治疗方案，文西？”

‘No, no; I’ve no opinion of that system. Life wants padding,’ said Mr. Vincy, unable to omit his portable theory. ‘However,’ he went on, accenting the word, as if to dismiss all irrelevance, ‘what I came here to talk about was a little affair of my young scapegrace, Fred’s.’
'不，不;我对那个系统没有意见。生活需要填充物，”文西先生说道，他无法忽略他的便携式理论。 “然而，”他继续说道，加重了这个词的语气，仿佛要排除所有无关紧要的事情，“我来这里是要谈论我年轻的小混混弗雷德的一件小事。”

‘That is a subject on which you and I are likely to take quite as different views as on diet, Vincy.’
“文西，你和我在这个问题上可能会像在饮食问题上一样持有不同的观点。”

‘I hope not this time.’ (Mr. Vincy was resolved to be good-humored.) ‘The fact is, it’s about a whim of old Featherstone’s. Somebody has been cooking up a story out of spite, and telling it to the old man, to try to set him against Fred. He’s very fond of Fred, and is likely to do something handsome for him; indeed he has as good as told Fred that he means to leave him his land, and that makes other people jealous.’
“我希望这次不会。”（文西先生决定表现得幽默一些。）“事实是，这只是老费瑟斯通的一时兴起。有人出于恶意编造了一个故事，并告诉老人，试图让他反对弗雷德。他非常喜欢弗雷德，很可能会为他做一些漂亮的事情；事实上，他已经告诉弗雷德，他打算把自己的土地留给他，这让其他人嫉妒。

‘Vincy, I must repeat, that you will not get any concurrence from me as to the course you have pursued with your eldest son. It was entirely from worldly vanity that you destined him for the Church: with a family of three sons and four daughters, you were not warranted in devoting money to an expensive education which has succeeded in nothing but in giving him extravagant idle habits. You are now reaping the consequences.’
“文西，我必须重复一遍，对于你对你大儿子采取的做法，你不会得到我的同意。你把他注定要进入教会完全是出于世俗的虚荣心：你的家庭有三个儿子和四个女儿，你没有理由把钱花在昂贵的教育上，这种教育除了让他养成奢侈的闲散习惯之外，一无所获。你现在正在承受后果。

To point out other people’s errors was a duty that Mr. Bulstrode rarely shrank from, but Mr. Vincy was not equally prepared to be patient. When a man has the immediate prospect of being mayor, and is ready, in the interests of commerce, to take up a firm attitude on politics generally, he has naturally a sense of his importance to the framework of things which seems to throw questions of private conduct into the background. And this particular reproof irritated him more than any other. It was eminently superfluous to him to be told that he was reaping the consequences. But he felt his neck under Bulstrode’s yoke; and though he usually enjoyed kicking, he was anxious to refrain from that relief.
布尔斯特罗德先生很少回避指出别人的错误，但文西先生却没有同样的耐心。当一个人有当市长的直接前景，并准备好为了商业利益，对政治采取坚定的态度时，他自然会意识到自己对事物框架的重要性，这似乎引发了问题私人行为进入后台。这个特别的责备比其他任何责备都更让他恼怒。对他来说，被告知他正在承受后果显然是多余的。但他感觉到自己的脖子被布尔斯特罗德压住了；尽管他通常很喜欢踢球，但他却急于克制住这种轻松感。

‘As to that, Bulstrode, it’s no use going back. I’m not one of your pattern men, and I don’t pretend to be. I couldn’t foresee everything in the trade; there wasn’t a finer business in Middlemarch than ours, and the lad was clever. My poor brother was in the Church, and would have done well—had got preferment already, but that stomach fever took him off: else he might have been a dean by this time. I think I was justified in what I tried to do for Fred. If you come to religion, it seems to me a man shouldn’t want to carve out his meat to an ounce beforehand:—one must trust a little to Providence and be generous. It’s a good British feeling to try and raise your family a little: in my opinion, it’s a father’s duty to give his sons a fine chance.’
“至于这一点，布尔斯特罗德，回去是没有用的。我不是你们的模范人物之一，我也不会假装是。我无法预见交易中的一切；米德尔马契没有比我们更好的生意了，而且这小伙子很聪明。我可怜的兄弟在教堂里，本来会做得很好——已经得到了晋升，但是胃热让他离开了：否则他这个时候可能已经是一名院长了。我认为我为弗雷德做的事情是合理的。如果你谈到宗教，在我看来，一个人不应该预先把自己的肉切成一盎司：——一个人必须对上帝有一点信任，并且要慷慨。尝试养家糊口是一种很好的英国感觉：在我看来，给儿子们一个很好的机会是父亲的责任。

‘I don’t wish to act otherwise than as your best friend, Vincy, when I say that what you have been uttering just now is one mass of worldliness and inconsistent folly.’
“当我说你刚才所说的是一大堆世俗和前后矛盾的愚蠢时，我只想以你最好的朋友的身份行事，文西。”

‘Very well,’ said Mr. Vincy, kicking in spite of resolutions, ‘I never professed to be anything but worldly; and, what’s more, I don’t see anybody else who is not worldly. I suppose you don’t conduct business on what you call unworldly principles. The only difference I see is that one worldliness is a little bit honester than another.’
“好吧，”文西先生说，尽管已经下定决心，但还是踢着腿，“我从来没有自称过世俗；而且，更重要的是，我没有看到任何人是不世俗的。我想你做生意的时候并不遵循所谓的超凡脱俗的原则。我看到的唯一区别是，一种世俗比另一种更诚实一点。

‘This kind of discussion is unfruitful, Vincy,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, who, finishing his sandwich, had thrown himself back in his chair, and shaded his eyes as if weary. ‘You had some more particular business.’
“这种讨论是没有结果的，文西，”布尔斯特罗德先生说。他吃完三明治，向后靠在椅子上，遮住眼睛，好像很疲倦。 “你有一些更特殊的事情。”

‘Yes, yes. The long and short of it is, somebody has told old Featherstone, giving you as the authority, that Fred has been borrowing or trying to borrow money on the prospect of his land. Of course you never said any such nonsense. But the old fellow will insist on it that Fred should bring him a denial in your handwriting; that is, just a bit of a note saying you don’t believe a word of such stuff, either of his having borrowed or tried to borrow in such a fool’s way. I suppose you can have no objection to do that.’
'是的是的。总而言之，有人告诉老费瑟斯通（以你为权威），弗雷德一直在借钱或试图借钱来购买他的土地。当然，你从来没有说过这样的废话。但老家伙会坚持要求弗雷德给他带来你亲笔的否认信；也就是说，只是一张纸条，表明你不相信这些东西的任何一个字，要么他借过，要么试图以如此愚蠢的方式借钱。我想你不会反对这样做的。

‘Pardon me. I have an objection. I am by no means sure that your son, in his recklessness and ignorance—I will use no severer word— has not tried to raise money by holding out his future prospects, or even that some one may not have been foolish enough to supply him on so vague a presumption: there is plenty of such lax money-lending as of other folly in the world.’
'对不起。我有异议。我完全不确定你的儿子，由于他的鲁莽和无知——我不会使用更严厉的词——没有试图通过展示他的未来前景来筹集资金，甚至有些人可能不会愚蠢到向他提供资金。基于如此模糊的假设：世界上存在大量如此宽松的放贷行为，就像其他愚蠢的行为一样。

‘But Fred gives me his honor that he has never borrowed money on the pretence of any understanding about his uncle’s land. He is not a liar. I don’t want to make him better than he is. I have blown him up well—nobody can say I wink at what he does. But he is not a liar. And I should have thought—but I may be wrong— that there was no religion to hinder a man from believing the best of a young fellow, when you don’t know worse. It seems to me it would be a poor sort of religion to put a spoke in his wheel by refusing to say you don’t believe such harm of him as you’ve got no good reason to believe.’
“但是弗雷德向我保证，他从来没有以了解他叔叔的土地为借口借钱。他不是骗子。我不想让他变得比现在更好。我已经把他打爆了——没人能说我对他的所作所为视而不见。但他不是骗子。我本应该想到——但我可能错了——没有任何宗教可以阻止一个人相信一个年轻人最好的一面，因为你不知道更糟糕的事情。在我看来，拒绝说你不相信他会造成如此大的伤害，因为你没有充分的理由相信，从而给他的车轮带来辐条，这将是一种糟糕的宗教。

‘I am not at all sure that I should be befriending your son by smoothing his way to the future possession of Featherstone’s property. I cannot regard wealth as a blessing to those who use it simply as a harvest for this world. You do not like to hear these things, Vincy, but on this occasion I feel called upon to tell you that I have no motive for furthering such a disposition of property as that which you refer to. I do not shrink from saying that it will not tend to your son’s eternal welfare or to the glory of God. Why then should you expect me to pen this kind of affidavit, which has no object but to keep up a foolish partiality and secure a foolish bequest?’
“我完全不确定我是否应该通过为你儿子未来拥有费瑟斯通财产铺平道路来与他交朋友。”我不能把财富视为对那些仅仅把它当作这个世界的收获的人的祝福。你不喜欢听到这些事情，文西，但这次我觉得有必要告诉你，我没有动机推进你提到的这种财产处置。我毫不犹豫地说，这不会有利于你儿子的永恒福利或上帝的荣耀。那么你为什么要指望我写这种宣誓书，它除了保持愚蠢的偏袒和获得愚蠢的遗赠之外别无目的呢？

‘If you mean to hinder everybody from having money but saints and evangelists, you must give up some profitable partnerships, that’s all I can say,’ Mr. Vincy burst out very bluntly. ‘It may be for the glory of God, but it is not for the glory of the Middlemarch trade, that Plymdale’s house uses those blue and green dyes it gets from the Brassing manufactory; they rot the silk, that’s all I know about it. Perhaps if other people knew so much of the profit went to the glory of God, they might like it better. But I don’t mind so much about that—I could get up a pretty row, if I chose.’
“如果你想阻止除了圣徒和福音传教士之外的每个人都有钱，你就必须放弃一些有利可图的合作伙伴关系，这就是我能说的，”文西先生非常直率地说。 “也许是为了上帝的荣耀，但普林代尔家族使用从黄铜制造厂获得的蓝色和绿色染料，并不是为了米德尔马契贸易的荣耀；他们腐烂了丝绸，这就是我所知道的。也许如果其他人知道这么多利润都用于荣耀上帝，他们可能会更喜欢它。但我对此并不太介意——如果我愿意的话，我可以吵得很漂亮。”

Mr. Bulstrode paused a little before he answered. ‘You pain me very much by speaking in this way, Vincy. I do not expect you to understand my grounds of action—it is not an easy thing even to thread a path for principles in the intricacies of the world— still less to make the thread clear for the careless and the scoffing. You must remember, if you please, that I stretch my tolerance towards you as my wife’s brother, and that it little becomes you to complain of me as withholding material help towards the worldly position of your family. I must remind you that it is not your own prudence or judgment that has enabled you to keep your place in the trade.’
布尔斯特罗德先生在回答之前停顿了一下。 “你这样说话让我非常痛苦，文西。我并不指望你能理解我的行动理由——在错综复杂的世界中找出一条原则之路都不是一件容易的事——更不用说为那些粗心和嘲笑的人理清思路了。如果你愿意的话，你必须记住，作为我妻子的兄弟，我对你很宽容，你抱怨我对你家庭的世俗地位拒绝提供物质帮助是不合适的。我必须提醒你，并不是你自己的谨慎或判断使你能够保住自己在行业中的地位。

‘Very likely not; but you have been no loser by my trade yet,’ said Mr. Vincy, thoroughly nettled (a result which was seldom much retarded by previous resolutions). ‘And when you married Harriet, I don’t see how you could expect that our families should not hang by the same nail. If you’ve changed your mind, and want my family to come down in the world, you’d better say so. I’ve never changed; I’m a plain Churchman now, just as I used to be before doctrines came up. I take the world as I find it, in trade and everything else. I’m contented to be no worse than my neighbors. But if you want us to come down in the world, say so. I shall know better what to do then.’
“很可能不会； “但你还没有因为我的交易而成为输家。”文西先生说，他彻底恼火了（这一结果很少被以前的决议所阻碍）。 “当你和哈丽特结婚时，我不明白你怎么能指望我们的家庭不会被同一个钉子上挂着。如果你改变了主意，希望我的家人在这个世界上名声大噪，你最好就这么说。我从未改变；我现在是一个普通的牧师，就像在教义出现之前一样。我以我所发现的方式看待世界，无论是贸易还是其他一切。我很满意自己不比邻居差。但如果你想让我们落魄，就直说吧。那时我会更清楚该怎么做。

‘You talk unreasonably. Shall you come down in the world for want of this letter about your son?’
‘你说话无理取闹。你会因为缺少这封关于你儿子的信而来到这个世界吗？

‘Well, whether or not, I consider it very unhandsome of you to refuse it. Such doings may be lined with religion, but outside they have a nasty, dog-in-the-manger look. You might as well slander Fred: it comes pretty near to it when you refuse to say you didn’t set a slander going. It’s this sort of thing—-this tyrannical spirit, wanting to play bishop and banker everywhere—it’s this sort of thing makes a man’s name stink.’
“好吧，无论是否，我认为你拒绝它是很不英俊的。这些行为可能与宗教有关，但从外表上看，它们却是一种卑鄙的、损人不利己的行为。你不妨诽谤弗雷德：当你拒绝说你没有煽动诽谤时，这就非常接近了。就是这种事情——这种暴虐的精神，想要到处扮演主教和银行家——这种事情让一个人的名声变得臭不可闻。

‘Vincy, if you insist on quarrelling with me, it will be exceedingly painful to Harriet as well as myself,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, with a trifle more eagerness and paleness than usual.
“文西，如果你坚持和我吵架，那对哈丽特和我自己来说都会非常痛苦，”布尔斯特罗德先生说道，语气比平时更加​​急切和苍白。

‘I don’t want to quarrel. It’s for my interest—and perhaps for yours too—that we should be friends. I bear you no grudge; I think no worse of you than I do of other people. A man who half starves himself, and goes the length in family prayers, and so on, that you do, believes in his religion whatever it may be: you could turn over your capital just as fast with cursing and swearing:— plenty of fellows do. You like to be master, there’s no denying that; you must be first chop in heaven, else you won’t like it much. But you’re my sister’s husband, and we ought to stick together; and if I know Harriet, she’ll consider it your fault if we quarrel because you strain at a gnat in this way, and refuse to do Fred a good turn. And I don’t mean to say I shall bear it well. I consider it unhandsome.’
‘我不想吵架。为了我的利益——或许也为了你的利益——我们应该成为朋友。我对你无怨无悔；我对你的评价并不比对其他人的评价差。一个人，他自己挨饿，在家庭祈祷中竭尽全力，等等，就像你所做的那样，相信他的宗教信仰，无论它是什么：你可以用咒骂和咒骂同样快地转移你的资本：-很多人做。你喜欢当主人，这是不可否认的；你必须是天堂里的第一个，否则你不会太喜欢它。但你是我姐姐的丈夫，我们应该团结一致；如果我认识哈丽特，如果我们吵架，她会认为这是你的错，因为你用这种方式捉住一只小昆虫，并且拒绝帮助弗雷德。我并不是说我会很好地忍受它。我认为这很不美观。

Mr. Vincy rose, began to button his great-coat, and looked steadily at his brother-in-law, meaning to imply a demand for a decisive answer.
文西先生站了起来，开始扣大衣的扣子，目光定定地看着他的姐夫，意思是要求他给出果断的答复。

This was not the first time that Mr. Bulstrode had begun by admonishing Mr. Vincy, and had ended by seeing a very unsatisfactory reflection of himself in the coarse unflattering mirror which that manufacturer’s mind presented to the subtler lights and shadows of his fellow-men; and perhaps his experience ought to have warned him how the scene would end. But a full-fed fountain will be generous with its waters even in the rain, when they are worse than useless; and a fine fount of admonition is apt to be equally irrepressible.
这并不是布尔斯特罗德先生第一次以劝告文西先生开始，而最后却在粗糙的、不讨人喜欢的镜子中看到了自己非常不满意的倒影，而镜子是制造商的头脑呈现给他的同胞的微妙的光影的。 ;也许他的经历应该告诉他这一幕将会如何结束。但是，即使在雨天，一个饱足的喷泉也会慷慨地喷出水，而此时它们比无用更糟。大量的劝告也同样会让人无法抑制。

It was not in Mr. Bulstrode’s nature to comply directly in consequence of uncomfortable suggestions. Before changing his course, he always needed to shape his motives and bring them into accordance with his habitual standard. He said, at last—
布尔斯特罗德先生的本性不会因为提出令人不安的建议而直接服从。在改变路线之前，他总是需要塑造自己的动机，并使它们符合他的习惯标准。他说，最后——

‘I will reflect a little, Vincy. I will mention the subject to Harriet. I shall probably send you a letter.’
“我会反思一下，文西。我会向哈里特提及这个话题。我可能会给你写一封信。

‘Very well. As soon as you can, please. I hope it will all be settled before I see you to-morrow.’
'很好。请尽快。我希望在明天见到你之前一切都能解决。

CHAPTER XIV
第十四章

‘Follows here the strict receipt
“这里遵循严格的收据

For that sauce to dainty meat,
为了给美味的肉配上酱汁，

Named Idleness, which many eat
名为“闲”，许多人都吃它

By preference, and call it sweet:
根据喜好，并称之为甜蜜：

First watch for morsels, like a hound
首先像猎犬一样留意食物

Mix well with buffets, stir them round
与自助餐充分混合，搅拌均匀

With good thick oil of flatteries,
带着浓浓的奉承油，

And froth with mean self-lauding lies.
并用卑鄙的自吹自擂的谎言来泡沫。

Serve warm: the vessels you must choose
热食：您必须选择的容器

To keep it in are dead men’s shoes.’
为了保持它的安全，用的是死人的鞋子。

Mr. Bulstrode’s consultation of Harriet seemed to have had the effect desired by Mr. Vincy, for early the next morning a letter came which Fred could carry to Mr. Featherstone as the required testimony.
布尔斯特罗德先生对哈丽特的咨询似乎达到了文西先生所期望的效果，因为第二天一早，弗雷德就收到了一封信，可以将这封信交给费瑟斯通先生作为所需的证词。

The old gentleman was staying in bed on account of the cold weather, and as Mary Garth was not to be seen in the sitting-room, Fred went up-stairs immediately and presented the letter to his uncle, who, propped up comfortably on a bed-rest, was not less able than usual to enjoy his consciousness of wisdom in distrusting and frustrating mankind. He put on his spectacles to read the letter, pursing up his lips and drawing down their corners.
由于天气寒冷，老先生正在床上睡觉，客厅里看不到玛丽·加思的身影，弗雷德立即上楼，把信交给了叔叔，叔叔舒服地靠在床上。卧床休息时，他仍然能够像平常一样享受他在不信任和挫败人类方面的智慧意识。他戴上眼镜读信，抿起嘴唇，拉下嘴角。

‘Under the circumstances I will not decline to state my conviction— tchah! what fine words the fellow puts! He’s as fine as an auctioneer— that your son Frederic has not obtained any advance of money on bequests promised by Mr. Featherstone—promised? who said I had ever promised? I promise nothing—I shall make codicils as long as I like—and that considering the nature of such a proceeding, it is unreasonable to presume that a young man of sense and character would attempt it—ah, but the gentleman doesn’t say you are a young man of sense and character, mark you that, sir!—As to my own concern with any report of such a nature, I distinctly affirm that I never made any statement to the effect that your son had borrowed money on any property that might accrue to him on Mr. Featherstone’s demise— bless my heart! ‘property’—accrue—demise! Lawyer Standish is nothing to him. He couldn’t speak finer if he wanted to borrow. Well,’ Mr. Featherstone here looked over his spectacles at Fred, while he handed back the letter to him with a contemptuous gesture, ‘you don’t suppose I believe a thing because Bulstrode writes it out fine, eh?’
“在这种情况下，我不会拒绝表明我的信念——嚯！”这家伙说得多么好听啊！他像拍卖师一样优秀——你的儿子弗雷德里克没有从费瑟斯通先生承诺的遗赠中获得任何预付款——承诺过吗？谁说我曾经承诺过？我什么也不保证——只要我愿意，我就会制作附录——考虑到这种诉讼的性质，假设一个有理智和品格的年轻人会尝试这样做是不合理的——啊，但是这位绅士没有说你是一个有理智、有品格的年轻人，请记住这一点，先生！——至于我自己对此类性质的报告的关注，我明确声明，我从未发表过任何声明，表明您的儿子曾借钱给任何人费瑟斯通先生去世后他可能获得的财产——保佑我的心！ ‘财产’——产生——消灭！斯坦迪什律师对他来说毫无意义。如果他想借的话，他说得再好不过了。好吧，”费瑟斯通先生越过眼镜看着弗雷德，他以轻蔑的姿态把信递还给他，“你以为我不会相信布尔斯特罗德写得很好，是吧？”

Fred colored. ‘You wished to have the letter, sir. I should think it very likely that Mr. Bulstrode’s denial is as good as the authority which told you what he denies.’
弗雷德着色。 “您想要这封信，先生。我认为布尔斯特罗德先生的否认很可能与告诉你他所否认的事情的权威一样好。

‘Every bit. I never said I believed either one or the other. And now what d’ you expect?’ said Mr. Featherstone, curtly, keeping on his spectacles, but withdrawing his hands under his wraps.
'每一点。我从未说过我相信其中之一。 “现在你还指望什么？”费瑟斯通先生简短地说，他继续戴着眼镜，但把手缩进了裹着的布里。

‘I expect nothing, sir.’ Fred with difficulty restrained himself from venting his irritation. ‘I came to bring you the letter. If you like I will bid you good morning.’
“我什么也没指望，先生。”弗雷德艰难地克制住自己不发泄自己的愤怒。 “我是来给你带来这封信的。如果你愿意的话，我会向你问早安。

‘Not yet, not yet. Ring the bell; I want missy to come.’
‘还没有，还没有。敲钟;我想让小姐来。

It was a servant who came in answer to the bell.
是一名仆人应门铃而来。

‘Tell missy to come!’ said Mr. Featherstone, impatiently. ‘What business had she to go away?’ He spoke in the same tone when Mary came.
“叫小姐过来！”费瑟斯通先生不耐烦地说。 “她有什么事要走？”当玛丽到来时，他用同样的语气说道。

‘Why couldn’t you sit still here till I told you to go? want my waistcoat now. I told you always to put it on the bed.’
“为什么你不能安静地坐在这里直到我叫你走？”现在想要我的背心。我告诉过你一定要把它放在床上。”

Mary’s eyes looked rather red, as if she had been crying. It was clear that Mr. Featherstone was in one of his most snappish humors this morning, and though Fred had now the prospect of receiving the much-needed present of money, he would have preferred being free to turn round on the old tyrant and tell him that Mary Garth was too good to be at his beck. Though Fred had risen as she entered the room, she had barely noticed him, and looked as if her nerves were quivering with the expectation that something would be thrown at her. But she never had anything worse than words to dread. When she went to reach the waistcoat from a peg, Fred went up to her and said, ‘Allow me.’
玛丽的眼睛看起来很红，好像刚刚哭过。很明显，费瑟斯通先生今天早上正处于他最暴躁的脾气之一，尽管弗雷德现在有希望收到急需的金钱礼物，但他更愿意自由地转身向这个老暴君告白。他认为玛丽·加思太好了，不能听从他的吩咐。尽管当她进入房间时弗雷德已经站了起来，但她几乎没有注意到他，看上去她的神经似乎在颤抖，因为她期待着有什么东西会扔到她身上。但她从来没有比言语更可怕的事情了。当她从挂钩上拿背心时，弗雷德走到她面前说：“让我来。”

‘Let it alone! You bring it, missy, and lay it down here,’ said Mr. Featherstone. ‘Now you go away again till I call you,’ he added, when the waistcoat was laid down by him. It was usual with him to season his pleasure in showing favor to one person by being especially disagreeable to another, and Mary was always at hand to furnish the condiment. When his own relatives came she was treated better. Slowly he took out a bunch of keys from the waistcoat pocket, and slowly he drew forth a tin box which was under the bed-clothes.
‘别管它了！ “小姐，你把它拿来，放在这儿，”费瑟斯通先生说。 “现在你再走开，等我叫你为止，”当背心被他放下时，他补充道。他通常会通过对另一个人特别不愉快来表达自己对一个人表示好感的快乐，而玛丽总是在身边提供调味品。当他自己的亲戚来的时候，她受到了更好的待遇。他慢慢地从背心口袋里掏出一串钥匙，又慢慢地从被子底下拿出一个铁盒。

‘You expect I am going to give you a little fortune, eh?’ he said, looking above his spectacles and pausing in the act of opening the lid.
“你以为我会给你一点财富，是吗？”他说，眼睛看着眼镜上方，在打开盖子的动作中停了下来。

‘Not at all, sir. You were good enough to speak of making me a present the other day, else, of course, I should not have thought of the matter.’ But Fred was of a hopeful disposition, and a vision had presented itself of a sum just large enough to deliver him from a certain anxiety. When Fred got into debt, it always seemed to him highly probable that something or other— he did not necessarily conceive what—would come to pass enabling him to pay in due time. And now that the providential occurrence was apparently close at hand, it would have been sheer absurdity to think that the supply would be short of the need: as absurd as a faith that believed in half a miracle for want of strength to believe in a whole one.
“一点也不，先生。你真好，那天说要给我送一份礼物，否则我当然不会想到这件事。”但是弗雷德充满希望，他的愿景已经呈现出一笔足够大的金额。让他摆脱某种焦虑。当弗雷德陷入债务时，他总是觉得很可能有某件事——他不一定想到是什么——会发生，使他能够在适当的时候偿还债务。现在，天意的发生显然已经近在眼前，如果认为供应会短缺，那将是完全荒谬的：就像相信半个奇迹的信仰却缺乏力量去相信整个奇迹一样荒谬。一。

The deep-veined hands fingered many bank-notes-one after the other, laying them down flat again, while Fred leaned back in his chair, scorning to look eager. He held himself to be a gentleman at heart, and did not like courting an old fellow for his money. At last, Mr. Featherstone eyed him again over his spectacles and presented him with a little sheaf of notes: Fred could see distinctly that there were but five, as the less significant edges gaped towards him. But then, each might mean fifty pounds. He took them, saying—
那双青筋暴起的手一张张地摸着许多钞票，然后又把它们放平，而弗雷德靠在椅子上，不屑地表现出急切的样子。他内心自认为是个君子，不喜欢为了钱而去讨好一个老家伙。最后，费瑟斯通先生再次从眼镜上看了他一眼，递给他一小捆钞票：弗雷德可以清楚地看到，只有五张，因为不太重要的边缘向他张开。但是，每个可能意味着五十英镑。他接过它们，说道——

‘I am very much obliged to you, sir,’ and was going to roll them up without seeming to think of their value. But this did not suit Mr. Featherstone, who was eying him intently.
“我非常感谢你，先生。”然后就把它们卷起来，似乎没有考虑它们的价值。但这不适合费瑟斯通先生，他正专注地看着他。

‘Come, don’t you think it worth your while to count ‘em? You take money like a lord; I suppose you lose it like one.’
‘来吧，你不觉得值得花时间去数一下吗？你像领主一样拿钱；我想你会像失去它一样。

‘I thought I was not to look a gift-horse in the mouth, sir. But I shall be very happy to count them.’
“我想我不该把礼物当回事，先生。但我会很高兴数一数。”

Fred was not so happy, however, after he had counted them. For they actually presented the absurdity of being less than his hopefulness had decided that they must be. What can the fitness of things mean, if not their fitness to a man’s expectations? Failing this, absurdity and atheism gape behind him. The collapse for Fred was severe when he found that he held no more than five twenties, and his share in the higher education of this country did not seem to help him. Nevertheless he said, with rapid changes in his fair complexion—
然而，当弗雷德数完它们之后，他就不那么高兴了。因为它们实际上表现出了比他的希望所决定的要低的荒谬性。如果事物的适合度不能满足人们的期望，那么它们又意味着什么呢？如果做不到这一点，荒谬和无神论就会在他身后张开。当弗雷德发现自己还不到五岁的时候，他的崩溃是严重的，而且他在这个国家接受的高等教育似乎对他没有帮助。尽管如此，他还是说道，随着他白皙的肤色迅速变化——

‘It is very handsome of you, sir.’
“你真英俊，先生。”

‘I should think it is,’ said Mr. Featherstone, locking his box and replacing it, then taking off his spectacles deliberately, and at length, as if his inward meditation had more deeply convinced him, repeating, ‘I should think it handsome.’
“我想是这样，”费瑟斯通先生说，锁上盒子，放回原处，然后故意摘下眼镜，最后，仿佛他内心的沉思更加说服了他，重复道，“我应该认为它很漂亮” .'

‘I assure you, sir, I am very grateful,’ said Fred, who had had time to recover his cheerful air.
“我向您保证，先生，我非常感激。”弗雷德说道，他已经恢复了愉快的神情。

‘So you ought to be. You want to cut a figure in the world, and I reckon Peter Featherstone is the only one you’ve got to trust to.’ Here the old man’s eyes gleamed with a curiously mingled satisfaction in the consciousness that this smart young fellow relied upon him, and that the smart young fellow was rather a fool for doing so.
‘所以你应该如此。你想在这个世界上崭露头角，我想彼得·费瑟斯通是你唯一可以信任的人。”说到这里，老人的眼睛里闪烁着一种奇怪的满足感，因为他意识到这个聪明的年轻人依赖他。 ，而这个聪明的年轻人这样做其实是个傻子。

‘Yes, indeed: I was not born to very splendid chances. Few men have been more cramped than I have been,’ said Fred, with some sense of surprise at his own virtue, considering how hardly he was dealt with. ‘It really seems a little too bad to have to ride a broken-winded hunter, and see men, who, are not half such good judges as yourself, able to throw away any amount of money on buying bad bargains.’
“是的，确实如此：我生来就没有很好的机会。很少有人比我更局促了。”弗雷德说道，考虑到他所受到的对待是多么的艰难，他对自己的美德感到有些惊讶。 “不得不骑着一个气喘吁吁的猎人，看着那些判断力不及你一半的人能够花多少钱去买便宜货，这确实有点太糟糕了。”

‘Well, you can buy yourself a fine hunter now. Eighty pound is enough for that, I reckon—and you’ll have twenty pound over to get yourself out of any little scrape,’ said Mr. Featherstone, chuckling slightly.
“好吧，你现在可以给自己买一个优秀的猎人了。”我想八十英镑就足够了——而且你还有二十英镑可以让自己摆脱任何小麻烦。”费瑟斯通先生轻笑道。

‘You are very good, sir,’ said Fred, with a fine sense of contrast between the words and his feeling.
“你非常好，先生。”弗雷德说道，言语与他的感受形成了鲜明的对比。

‘Ay, rather a better uncle than your fine uncle Bulstrode. You won’t get much out of his spekilations, I think. He’s got a pretty strong string round your father’s leg, by what I hear, eh?’
“嗯，他是比你优秀的布尔斯特罗德叔叔更好的叔叔。”我认为你不会从他的演讲中得到太多收获。据我所知，他在你父亲的腿上缠着一根很结实的绳子，嗯？

‘My father never tells me anything about his affairs, sir.’
“我父亲从来没有告诉过我任何关于他的事情，先生。”

‘Well, he shows some sense there. But other people find ‘em out without his telling. HE’LL never have much to leave you: he’ll most-like die without a will—he’s the sort of man to do it— let ‘em make him mayor of Middlemarch as much as they like. But you won’t get much by his dying without a will, though you ARE the eldest son.’
“嗯，他表现出了一些理智。但其他人却在他不知情的情况下发现了它们。他永远不会给你留下什么：他很可能会在没有遗嘱的情况下死去——他是那种会这么做的人——让他们随心所欲地任命他为米德尔马契市长。但即使你是长子，他在没有遗嘱的情况下去世，你也不会得到什么好处。”

Fred thought that Mr. Featherstone had never been so disagreeable before. True, he had never before given him quite so much money at once.
弗雷德认为费瑟斯通先生以前从未如此令人讨厌。确实，他以前从来没有一次给过他这么多钱。

‘Shall I destroy this letter of Mr. Bulstrode’s, sir?’ said Fred, rising with the letter as if he would put it in the fire.
“先生，我要销毁布尔斯特罗德先生的这封信吗？”弗雷德说着，拿着信站了起来，仿佛要把它扔进火里。

‘Ay, ay, I don’t want it. It’s worth no money to me.’
‘哎呀，哎呀，我不想要它。这对我来说不值钱。

Fred carried the letter to the fire, and thrust the poker through it with much zest. He longed to get out of the room, but he was a little ashamed before his inner self, as well as before his uncle, to run away immediately after pocketing the money. Presently, the farm-bailiff came up to give his master a report, and Fred, to his unspeakable relief, was dismissed with the injunction to come again soon.
弗雷德把信拿到火边，兴致勃勃地将拨火棍戳了进去。他很想离开房间，但他在内心和叔叔面前都有点羞愧，收了钱就跑了。不久，农场的法警过来向他的主人报告，弗雷德被解雇了，并被禁止很快再来，这让他感到难以言表的宽慰。

He had longed not only to be set free from his uncle, but also to find Mary Garth. She was now in her usual place by the fire, with sewing in her hands and a book open on the little table by her side. Her eyelids had lost some of their redness now, and she had her usual air of self-command.
他不仅渴望摆脱叔叔的束缚，还渴望找到玛丽·加斯。她现在正坐在火边平常的位置上，手里拿着针线活，旁边的小桌子上放着一本书。她的眼皮现在已经不再红了，而且还保持着往常的自制力。

‘Am I wanted up-stairs?’ she said, half rising as Fred entered.
“有人要我上楼吗？”弗雷德进来时，她半站起身说道。

‘No; I am only dismissed, because Simmons is gone up.’
'不;我只是被解雇了，因为西蒙斯升职了。”

Mary sat down again, and resumed her work. She was certainly treating him with more indifference than usual: she did not know how affectionately indignant he had felt on her behalf up-stairs.
玛丽又坐下来，继续她的工作。她对待他的态度确实比平常更加冷漠：她不知道他在楼上为她感到多么深情的愤慨。

‘May I stay here a little, Mary, or shall I bore you?’
“我可以在这儿待一会儿吗，玛丽，还是我会让你厌烦呢？”

‘Pray sit down,’ said Mary; ‘you will not be so heavy a bore as Mr. John Waule, who was here yesterday, and he sat down without asking my leave.’
“请坐下，”玛丽说。 “你不会像约翰·沃勒先生那样令人厌烦，他昨天来过这里，他没有征求我的同意就坐了下来。”

‘Poor fellow! I think he is in love with you.’
'可怜的家伙！我认为他爱上了你。

‘I am not aware of it. And to me it is one of the most odious things in a girl’s life, that there must always be some supposition of falling in love coming between her and any man who is kind to her, and to whom she is grateful. I should have thought that I, at least, might have been safe from all that. I have no ground for the nonsensical vanity of fancying everybody who comes near me is in love with me.’
“我不知道。”对我来说，这是一个女孩一生中最令人厌恶的事情之一，因为她和任何对她友善、她感激的男人之间总是存在着某种坠入爱河的假设。我本应该想到，至少我可以免受这一切的影响。我没有理由幻想所有靠近我的人都爱我，这是荒谬的虚荣心。

Mary did not mean to betray any feeling, but in spite of herself she ended in a tremulous tone of vexation.
玛丽无意流露任何感情，但她不由自主地以一种颤抖的、恼怒的语气结束了。

‘Confound John Waule! I did not mean to make you angry. I didn’t know you had any reason for being grateful to me. I forgot what a great service you think it if any one snuffs a candle for you. Fred also had his pride, and was not going to show that he knew what had called forth this outburst of Mary’s.
‘约翰·沃勒真该死！我不是故意让你生气的。我不知道你有什么理由感谢我。我忘了如果有人为你吹灭蜡烛，你会认为这是多么伟大的服务。弗雷德也有他的骄傲，他不会表现出他知道是什么导致了玛丽的爆发。

‘Oh, I am not angry, except with the ways of the world. I do like to be spoken to as if I had common-sense. I really often feel as if I could understand a little more than I ever hear even from young gentlemen who have been to college.’ Mary had recovered, and she spoke with a suppressed rippling under-current of laughter pleasant to hear.
“哦，我并不生气，除了对世俗的方式感到愤怒。我确实喜欢别人跟我说话，就好像我有常识一样。我真的经常觉得我能听懂的东西比我从上过大学的年轻绅士那里听到的要多一点。”玛丽已经康复了，她说话时带着压抑的、令人愉悦的笑声。

‘I don’t care how merry you are at my expense this morning,’ said Fred, ‘I thought you looked so sad when you came up-stairs. It is a shame you should stay here to be bullied in that way.’
“我不在乎你今天早上在我面前有多高兴，”弗雷德说，“我觉得你上楼时看起来很悲伤。你留在这里受这样的欺负真是太遗憾了。”

‘Oh, I have an easy life—by comparison. I have tried being a teacher, and I am not fit for that: my mind is too fond of wandering on its own way. I think any hardship is better than pretending to do what one is paid for, and never really doing it. Everything here I can do as well as any one else could; perhaps better than some—Rosy, for example. Though she is just the sort of beautiful creature that is imprisoned with ogres in fairy tales.’
“哦，相比之下，我的生活很轻松。我尝试过当一名老师，但我不适合当老师：我的头脑太喜欢走自己的路了。我认为任何困难都比假装做别人付钱去做的事情但从不真正去做要好。在这里我能做的一切和其他人一样；也许比某些人更好——例如罗西。虽然她只是童话故事中与食人魔一起囚禁的那种美丽生物。

‘ROSY!’ cried Fred, in a tone of profound brotherly scepticism.
“玫瑰色！”弗雷德喊道，语气里充满兄弟般的怀疑。

‘Come, Fred!’ said Mary, emphatically; ‘you have no right to be so critical.’
“来吧，弗雷德！”玛丽强调道。 “你没有权利如此挑剔。”

‘Do you mean anything particular—just now?’
“你刚才有什么特别的意思吗？”

‘No, I mean something general—always.’
“不，我的意思是一般性的——永远。”

‘Oh, that I am idle and extravagant. Well, I am not fit to be a poor man. I should not have made a bad fellow if I had been rich.’
‘噢，但愿我既闲散又奢侈。好吧，我不适合做穷人。如果我有钱的话，我就不会成为坏人。”

‘You would have done your duty in that state of life to which it has not pleased God to call you,’ said Mary, laughing.
“在上帝不乐意呼召你的那种生活状态下，你本来就已经履行了你的职责，”玛丽笑着说。

‘Well, I couldn’t do my duty as a clergyman, any more than you could do yours as a governess. You ought to have a little fellow-feeling there, Mary.’
“嗯，我无法履行作为牧师的职责，就像你无法履行作为家庭教师的职责一样。你应该对此有一点同情心，玛丽。

‘I never said you ought to be a clergyman. There are other sorts of work. It seems to me very miserable not to resolve on some course and act accordingly.’
“我从来没有说过你应该成为一名牧师。还有其他种类的工作。在我看来，如果不下定决心采取某些行动并采取相应行动，那就太悲惨了。

‘So I could, if—‘ Fred broke off, and stood up, leaning against the mantel-piece.
“所以我可以，如果——”弗雷德打住了，站了起来，靠在壁炉架上。

‘If you were sure you should not have a fortune?’
“如果你确定你不应该拥有财富呢？”

‘I did not say that. You want to quarrel with me. It is too bad of you to be guided by what other people say about me.’
'我没那么说过。你想跟我吵架。你太糟糕了，竟然听从别人对我的评价。”

‘How can I want to quarrel with you? I should be quarrelling with all my new books,’ said Mary, lifting the volume on the table. ‘However naughty you may be to other people, you are good to me.’
‘我怎么可能想和你吵架呢？我应该对我所有的新书争论不休。”玛丽说着，拿起桌上的书。 “不管你对别人有多顽皮，你对我都很好。”

‘Because I like you better than any one else. But I know you despise me.’
‘因为我比任何人都更喜欢你。但我知道你鄙视我。

‘Yes, I do—a little,’ said Mary, nodding, with a smile.
“是的，我知道——有一点，”玛丽微笑着点点头说道。

‘You would admire a stupendous fellow, who would have wise opinions about everything.’
“你会钦佩一个了不起的人，他对一切都有明智的看法。”

‘Yes, I should.’ Mary was sewing swiftly, and seemed provokingly mistress of the situation. When a conversation has taken a wrong turn for us, we only get farther and farther into the swamp of awkwardness. This was what Fred Vincy felt.
“是的，我应该这么做。”玛丽正在快速地缝纫，似乎对这种情况充满挑衅。当谈话转向错误的方向时，我们只会在尴尬的沼泽中越陷越深。这就是弗雷德·文西的感受。

‘I suppose a woman is never in love with any one she has always known— ever since she can remember; as a man often is. It is always some new fellow who strikes a girl.’
“我想，一个女人永远不会爱上任何一个她一直认识的人——从她记事起；就像男人经常做的那样。吸引女孩的总是新人。

‘Let me see,’ said Mary, the corners of her mouth curling archly; ‘I must go back on my experience. There is Juliet—she seems an example of what you say. But then Ophelia had probably known Hamlet a long while; and Brenda Troil—she had known Mordaunt Merton ever since they were children; but then he seems to have been an estimable young man; and Minna was still more deeply in love with Cleveland, who was a stranger. Waverley was new to Flora MacIvor; but then she did not fall in love with him. And there are Olivia and Sophia Primrose, and Corinne—they may be said to have fallen in love with new men. Altogether, my experience is rather mixed.’
“让我看看，”玛丽说，嘴角狡猾地翘起。 “我必须回顾我的经历。有朱丽叶——她似乎就是你所说的一个例子。但奥菲莉亚可能已经认识哈姆雷特很久了。还有布伦达·特洛尔——她从小就认识莫当特·默顿。但他看上去是一位值得尊敬的年轻人。而明娜却更加深爱着陌生人克利夫兰。韦弗利对弗洛拉·麦基弗来说是新认识的。但后来她并没有爱上他。还有奥利维亚和索菲亚普里姆罗斯，还有科琳——他们可以说已经爱上了新男人。总而言之，我的经历相当复杂。

Mary looked up with some roguishness at Fred, and that look of hers was very dear to him, though the eyes were nothing more than clear windows where observation sat laughingly. He was certainly an affectionate fellow, and as he had grown from boy to man, he had grown in love with his old playmate, notwithstanding that share in the higher education of the country which had exalted his views of rank and income.
玛丽有些调皮地抬头看着弗雷德，她的眼神对他来说非常可爱，尽管她的眼睛只不过是透明的窗户，观察者坐在上面笑着。他无疑是一个深情的小伙子，随着他从男孩成长为男人，他越来越爱上了他的老玩伴，尽管他在这个国家接受的高等教育提高了他对等级和收入的看法。

‘When a man is not loved, it is no use for him to say that he could be a better fellow—could do anything—I mean, if he were sure of being loved in return.’
“当一个人不被爱时，他说他可以成为一个更好的人——可以做任何事——我的意思是，如果他确信自己会被爱作为回报，那是没有用的。”

‘Not of the least use in the world for him to say he COULD be better. Might, could, would—they are contemptible auxiliaries.’
“他说自己可以做得更好，这对他来说毫无用处。可能、能够、会——他们是可鄙的帮凶。”

‘I don’t see how a man is to be good for much unless he has some one woman to love him dearly.’
“我不明白一个男人如果没有一个深爱他的女人，他怎么能有多大的作为。”

‘I think the goodness should come before he expects that.’
“我认为善良应该在他期望之前到来。”

‘You know better, Mary. Women don’t love men for their goodness.’
“你更清楚，玛丽。女人不会因为男人的善良而爱他们。

‘Perhaps not. But if they love them, they never think them bad.’
'也许不是。但如果他们爱他们，他们就不会认为他们不好。”

‘It is hardly fair to say I am bad.’
“说我不好是不公平的。”

‘I said nothing at all about you.’
“我根本没说过任何关于你的事。”

‘I never shall be good for anything, Mary, if you will not say that you love me—if you will not promise to marry me—I mean, when I am able to marry.’
“玛丽，如果你不说你爱我——如果你不答应嫁给我——我是说，当我能够结婚的时候，我永远不会有任何好处。”

‘If I did love you, I would not marry you: I would certainly not promise ever to marry you.’
“如果我真的爱你，我就不会嫁给你：我当然不会承诺永远嫁给你。”

‘I think that is quite wicked, Mary. If you love me, you ought to promise to marry me.’
“我认为这很邪恶，玛丽。如果你爱我，你就应该答应嫁给我。”

‘On the contrary, I think it would be wicked in me to marry you even if I did love you.’
“相反，我认为即使我真的爱你，嫁给你也是邪恶的。”

‘You mean, just as I am, without any means of maintaining a wife. Of course: I am but three-and-twenty.’
‘你的意思是，就像我一样，没有任何办法维持妻子。当然：我才三岁二十岁。

‘In that last point you will alter. But I am not so sure of any other alteration. My father says an idle man ought not to exist, much less, be married.’
‘最后一点你会改变。但我不太确定是否还有其他改变。我父亲说游手好闲的人不应该存在，更不用说结婚了。

‘Then I am to blow my brains out?’
“那我就得把我的脑子炸出来吗？”

‘No; on the whole I should think you would do better to pass your examination. I have heard Mr. Farebrother say it is disgracefully easy.’
'不;总的来说，我认为你会更好地通过考试。我听费雷布拉泽先生说这太简单了。

‘That is all very fine. Anything is easy to him. Not that cleverness has anything to do with it. I am ten times cleverer than many men who pass.’
‘这一切都很好。任何事对他来说都很容易。这并不是说聪明与否有什么关系。我比许多通过考试的人聪明十倍。

‘Dear me!’ said Mary, unable to repress her sarcasm; ‘that accounts for the curates like Mr. Crowse. Divide your cleverness by ten, and the quotient—dear me!—is able to take a degree. But that only shows you are ten times more idle than the others.’
“天啊！”玛丽无法抑制自己的讽刺说道。 “这就是像克劳斯先生这样的牧师的原因。”把你的聪明才智除以十，商——天哪！——就能获得学位。但这只能说明你比其他人闲十倍。

‘Well, if I did pass, you would not want me to go into the Church?’
“好吧，如果我真的通过了，你不会希望我进入教堂吧？”

‘That is not the question—what I want you to do. You have a conscience of your own, I suppose. There! there is Mr. Lydgate. I must go and tell my uncle.’
‘这不是问题——我想让你做什么。我想你也有自己的良心。那里！利德盖特先生来了。我必须去告诉我叔叔。

‘Mary,’ said Fred, seizing her hand as she rose; ‘if you will not give me some encouragement, I shall get worse instead of better.’
“玛丽，”弗雷德说，在她站起来时抓住了她的手。 “如果你不给我一些鼓励，我会变得更糟而不是更好。”

‘I will not give you any encouragement,’ said Mary, reddening. ‘Your friends would dislike it, and so would mine. My father would think it a disgrace to me if I accepted a man who got into debt, and would not work!’
“我不会给你任何鼓励，”玛丽红着脸说道。 “你的朋友会不喜欢它，我的朋友也会不喜欢它。”如果我接受一个负债累累、不工作的人，我父亲会认为我是一种耻辱！”

Fred was stung, and released her hand. She walked to the door, but there she turned and said: ‘Fred, you have always been so good, so generous to me. I am not ungrateful. But never speak to me in that way again.’
弗雷德被蜇了，松开了她的手。她走到门口，但转过身来说道：“弗雷德，你对我一直都那么好，那么慷慨。”我并不是忘恩负义。但永远不要再用这种方式跟我说话了。”

‘Very well,’ said Fred, sulkily, taking up his hat and whip. His complexion showed patches of pale pink and dead white. Like many a plucked idle young gentleman, he was thoroughly in love, and with a plain girl, who had no money! But having Mr. Featherstone’s land in the background, and a persuasion that, let Mary say what she would, she really did care for him, Fred was not utterly in despair.
“很好，”弗雷德闷闷不乐地说，拿起帽子和鞭子。他的肤色呈现出浅粉色和死白色的斑块。像许多勇敢的游手好闲的年轻绅士一样，他彻底爱上了一个相貌平平、没有钱的女孩！但以费瑟斯通先生的土地为背景，并且相信，无论玛丽怎么说，她确实关心他，弗雷德并没有完全绝望。

When he got home, he gave four of the twenties to his mother, asking her to keep them for him. ‘I don’t want to spend that money, mother. I want it to pay a debt with. So keep it safe away from my fingers.’
当他回到家时，他把其中的四张交给了他的母亲，请她帮他保留。 “我不想花那个钱，妈妈。我要它来偿还债务。所以请确保它远离我的手指。”

‘Bless you, my dear,’ said Mrs. Vincy. She doted on her eldest son and her youngest girl (a child of six), whom others thought her two naughtiest children. The mother’s eyes are not always deceived in their partiality: she at least can best judge who is the tender, filial-hearted child. And Fred was certainly very fond of his mother. Perhaps it was his fondness for another person also that made him particularly anxious to take some security against his own liability to spend the hundred pounds. For the creditor to whom he owed a hundred and sixty held a firmer security in the shape of a bill signed by Mary’s father.
“祝福你，亲爱的，”文西夫人说。她溺爱她的大儿子和小女儿（六岁的孩子），其他人认为这两个孩子是她最顽皮的孩子。母亲的眼睛并不总是被偏心所欺骗：她至少最能判断谁是温柔、孝顺的孩子。弗雷德当然非常喜欢他的母亲。也许正是因为他对另一个人的喜爱，才让他特别渴望采取一些担保措施来承担自己花掉这一百英镑的责任。对于他欠下一百六十美元的债权人来说，玛丽的父亲签署了一份票据，作为更牢固的担保。

CHAPTER XV
第十五章

‘Black eyes you have left, you say,
‘你留下了黑色的眼睛，你说，

Blue eyes fail to draw you;
蓝色的眼睛无法吸引你；

Yet you seem more rapt to-day,
然而你今天看起来更加全神贯注，

Than of old we saw you.
比以前我们见到你。


‘Oh, I track the fairest fair
“哦，我追踪最公平的博览会

Through new haunts of pleasure;
穿过新的快乐之地；

Footprints here and echoes there
这里有脚印，那里有回响

Guide me to my treasure:
引导我找到我的宝藏：


‘Lo! she turns—immortal youth
‘瞧！她转身——不朽的青春

Wrought to mortal stature,
塑造成凡人的身材，

Fresh as starlight’s aged truth—
如同星光古老的真理一样新鲜——

Many-named Nature!’
自然有很多名字！

A great historian, as he insisted on calling himself, who had the happiness to be dead a hundred and twenty years ago, and so to take his place among the colossi whose huge legs our living pettiness is observed to walk under, glories in his copious remarks and digressions as the least imitable part of his work, and especially in those initial chapters to the successive books of his history, where he seems to bring his armchair to the proscenium and chat with us in all the lusty ease of his fine English. But Fielding lived when the days were longer (for time, like money, is measured by our needs), when summer afternoons were spacious, and the clock ticked slowly in the winter evenings. We belated historians must not linger after his example; and if we did so, it is probable that our chat would be thin and eager, as if delivered from a campstool in a parrot-house. I at least have so much to do in unraveling certain human lots, and seeing how they were woven and interwoven, that all the light I can command must be concentrated on this particular web, and not dispersed over that tempting range of relevancies called the universe.
一位伟大的历史学家，正如他坚持自称的那样，他有幸在一百二十年前去世，因此能够在巨人的巨大腿下占据一席之地，我们活生生的渺小在他巨大的腿下行走，荣耀在于他丰富的历史。评论和离题是他作品中最不可模仿的部分，尤其是在他的历史著作的最初几章中，他似乎把他的扶手椅带到舞台上，用他流利的英语与我们聊天。但菲尔丁生活在白昼较长的时代（因为时间就像金钱一样，是根据我们的需要来衡量的），夏天的午后很宽敞，冬天的夜晚时钟滴答作响。我们迟来的历史学家决不能在他的榜样后面徘徊；如果我们这样做，我们的谈话很可能会变得薄弱而急切，就像是从鹦鹉屋的凳子上说出来的一样。我至少在解开人类的某些命运方面还有很多工作要做，并了解它们是如何交织在一起的，因此我所能控制的所有光线都必须集中在这个特定的网上，而不是分散在称为宇宙的诱人的相关范围内。

At present I have to make the new settler Lydgate better known to any one interested in him than he could possibly be even to those who had seen the most of him since his arrival in Middlemarch. For surely all must admit that a man may be puffed and belauded, envied, ridiculed, counted upon as a tool and fallen in love with, or at least selected as a future husband, and yet remain virtually unknown— known merely as a cluster of signs for his neighbors’ false suppositions. There was a general impression, however, that Lydgate was not altogether a common country doctor, and in Middlemarch at that time such an impression was significant of great things being expected from him. For everybody’s family doctor was remarkably clever, and was understood to have immeasurable skill in the management and training of the most skittish or vicious diseases. The evidence of his cleverness was of the higher intuitive order, lying in his lady-patients’ immovable conviction, and was unassailable by any objection except that their intuitions were opposed by others equally strong; each lady who saw medical truth in Wrench and ‘the strengthening treatment’ regarding Toller and ‘the lowering system’ as medical perdition. For the heroic times of copious bleeding and blistering had not yet departed, still less the times of thorough-going theory, when disease in general was called by some bad name, and treated accordingly without shilly-shally—as if, for example, it were to be called insurrection, which must not be fired on with blank-cartridge, but have its blood drawn at once. The strengtheners and the lowerers were all ‘clever’ men in somebody’s opinion, which is really as much as can be said for any living talents. Nobody’s imagination had gone so far as to conjecture that Mr. Lydgate could know as much as Dr. Sprague and Dr. Minchin, the two physicians, who alone could offer any hope when danger was extreme, and when the smallest hope was worth a guinea. Still, I repeat, there was a general impression that Lydgate was something rather more uncommon than any general practitioner in Middlemarch. And this was true. He was but seven-and-twenty, an age at which many men are not quite common—at which they are hopeful of achievement, resolute in avoidance, thinking that Mammon shall never put a bit in their mouths and get astride their backs, but rather that Mammon, if they have anything to do with him, shall draw their chariot.
目前，我必须让任何对他感兴趣的人更加了解新定居者利德盖特，甚至比那些自他抵达米德尔马契以来最常见到他的人更了解他。因为肯定所有人都必须承认，一个男人可能会被吹捧、被吹捧、被嫉妒、被嘲笑、被视为工具并坠入爱河，或者至少被选为未来的丈夫，但实际上仍然不为人知——仅仅被视为一群人。邻居错误假设的迹象。然而，人们普遍认为利德盖特并不完全是一位普通的乡村医生，而在当时的米德尔马契，这种印象意味着人们对他寄予厚望。因为每个人的家庭医生都非常聪明，并且被认为在管理和培训最不稳定或最恶性的疾病方面拥有不可估量的技能。他聪明的证据是更高的直觉，在于他的女病人坚定不移的信念，除了她们的直觉遭到同样强烈的其他人的反对之外，任何反对意见都无法驳倒他。每一位在扳手和“强化治疗”中看到医学真相的女士都将托勒和“降低系统”视为医疗毁灭。因为大量流血和起泡的英雄时代还没有过去，更不用说彻底理论的时代了，那时一般的疾病都被冠以一些坏名声，并且相应地进行治疗，而不犹豫不决——例如，好像它是一种疾病。所谓的暴动，不能用空弹射击，而是要立即抽血。在某些人看来，强化者和降低者都是“聪明”的人，这对于任何活着的天才来说都是如此。没有人的想象力能够推测出先生。 利德盖特知道的知识和斯普拉格医生和明钦医生一样多，这两位医生只有他们才能在危险达到极端的时候，以及在最小的希望只值一畿尼的时候提供任何希望。尽管如此，我再说一遍，人们普遍认为利德盖特比米德尔马契的任何全科医生都更不寻常。这是真的。他只有七岁和二十岁，这个年龄对许多男人来说并不常见——他们对成就抱有希望，坚决回避，认为玛门永远不会把一点东西放进他们的嘴里，也不会跨在他们的背上，但是相反，玛门，如果他们与他有任何关系，应该拉他们的战车。

He had been left an orphan when he was fresh from a public school. His father, a military man, had made but little provision for three children, and when the boy Tertius asked to have a medical education, it seemed easier to his guardians to grant his request by apprenticing him to a country practitioner than to make any objections on the score of family dignity. He was one of the rarer lads who early get a decided bent and make up their minds that there is something particular in life which they would like to do for its own sake, and not because their fathers did it. Most of us who turn to any subject with love remember some morning or evening hour when we got on a high stool to reach down an untried volume, or sat with parted lips listening to a new talker, or for very lack of books began to listen to the voices within, as the first traceable beginning of our love. Something of that sort happened to Lydgate. He was a quick fellow, and when hot from play, would toss himself in a corner, and in five minutes be deep in any sort of book that he could lay his hands on: if it were Rasselas or Gulliver, so much the better, but Bailey’s Dictionary would do, or the Bible with the Apocrypha in it. Something he must read, when he was not riding the pony, or running and hunting, or listening to the talk of men. All this was true of him at ten years of age; he had then read through ‘Chrysal, or the Adventures of a Guinea,’ which was neither milk for babes, nor any chalky mixture meant to pass for milk, and it had already occurred to him that books were stuff, and that life was stupid. His school studies had not much modified that opinion, for though he ‘did’ his classics and mathematics, he was not pre-eminent in them. It was said of him, that Lydgate could do anything he liked, but he had certainly not yet liked to do anything remarkable. He was a vigorous animal with a ready understanding, but no spark had yet kindled in him an intellectual passion; knowledge seemed to him a very superficial affair, easily mastered: judging from the conversation of his elders, he had apparently got already more than was necessary for mature life. Probably this was not an exceptional result of expensive teaching at that period of short-waisted coats, and other fashions which have not yet recurred. But, one vacation, a wet day sent him to the small home library to hunt once more for a book which might have some freshness for him: in vain! unless, indeed, he took down a dusty row of volumes with gray-paper backs and dingy labels—the volumes of an old Cyclopaedia which he had never disturbed. It would at least be a novelty to disturb them. They were on the highest shelf, and he stood on a chair to get them down. But he opened the volume which he first took from the shelf: somehow, one is apt to read in a makeshift attitude, just where it might seem inconvenient to do so. The page he opened on was under the head of Anatomy, and the first passage that drew his eyes was on the valves of the heart. He was not much acquainted with valves of any sort, but he knew that valvae were folding-doors, and through this crevice came a sudden light startling him with his first vivid notion of finely adjusted mechanism in the human frame. A liberal education had of course left him free to read the indecent passages in the school classics, but beyond a general sense of secrecy and obscenity in connection with his internal structure, had left his imagination quite unbiassed, so that for anything he knew his brains lay in small bags at his temples, and he had no more thought of representing to himself how his blood circulated than how paper served instead of gold. But the moment of vocation had come, and before he got down from his chair, the world was made new to him by a presentiment of. endless processes filling the vast spaces planked out of his sight by that wordy ignorance which he had supposed to be knowledge. From that hour Lydgate felt the growth of an intellectual passion.
当他刚从公立学校毕业时，他就成了孤儿。他的父亲是一名军人，为三个孩子提供的生活费很少，当男孩特蒂乌斯要求接受医学教育时，他的监护人似乎更容易批准他的请求，让他去乡村医生那里当学徒，而不是提出任何反对。在家庭尊严的分数上。他是少数几个很早就下定决心并下定决心要做一些特别的事情的小伙子之一，他们愿意为了自己的利益而去做一些特别的事情，而不是因为他们的父亲这样做了。我们大多数怀着热爱转向任何主题的人都记得某个早晨或晚上的某个时刻，我们坐在高脚凳上，伸手去读一本未经尝试的书，或者张开双唇坐着听一个新的演讲者，或者因为非常缺乏书籍而开始倾听内心的声音，作为我们爱情的第一个可追踪的开始。利德盖特就发生了类似的事情。他是个敏捷的家伙，当玩得热火朝天时，他会把自己扔到角落里，五分钟之内就可以深入研究他能拿到的任何一本书：如果是拉塞拉斯或格列佛，那就更好了，但《贝利词典》或带有伪经的《圣经》就可以了。当他不骑小马、不跑步、不打猎、不听人说话时，他必须读一些书。这一切都发生在他十岁时。然后他读完了《Chrysal，或者几内亚的历险记》，这既不是给婴儿喝的牛奶，也不是任何用来冒充牛奶的白垩混合物，他已经意识到书是东西，生活是愚蠢的。他在学校的学习并没有多大改变这个观点，因为尽管他“学过”古典文学和数学，但在这些方面他并不出类拔萃。 据说，利德盖特可以做任何他喜欢做的事情，但他肯定还不喜欢做任何非凡的事情。他是一个精力充沛、理解力强的动物，但还没有点燃他的求知热情。知识对他来说似乎是一件非常肤浅的事情，很容易掌握：从长辈的谈话来看，他显然已经获得了超出成熟生活所需的东西。也许这并不是短腰外套和其他尚未重现的时尚时期昂贵的教学的特殊结果。但是，一次假期，阴雨绵绵的一天，他来到家庭小图书馆，再次寻找一本可能对他来说有新鲜感的书：徒劳！除非他确实取下了一排布满灰尘、背面灰纸、标签肮脏的卷册——一本他从未翻动过的旧百科全书。打扰他们至少是一件新鲜事。它们在最高的架子上，他站在椅子上把它们拿下来。但他打开了他第一次从书架上取出的那本书：不知何故，人们很容易以一种临时的态度来阅读，而这似乎不方便这样做。他翻开的那一页是《解剖学》的标题下，第一个吸引他目光的段落是关于心脏瓣膜的。他对任何类型的阀门都不太熟悉，但他知道阀门是折叠门，从这个缝隙中突然射出一道光，让他第一次对人体框架中精细调节的机制有了生动的认识。 自由教育当然让他可以自由地阅读学校经典中的不雅段落，但除了与他的内部结构有关的一般隐秘和淫秽感之外，还使他的想象力相当公正，因此无论他做什么，他都知道他的大脑放在小袋子里放在他的太阳穴上，他不想向自己展示他的血液如何循环，就像纸如何代替黄金一样。但出差的时刻已经到来，在他从椅子上站起来之前，他预感到这个世界是全新的。无尽的过程充满了广阔的空间，这些空间被他本以为是知识的冗长无知所遮蔽。从那时起，利德盖特感受到了一种求知热情的增长。

We are not afraid of telling over and over again how a man comes to fall in love with a woman and be wedded to her, or else be fatally parted from her. Is it due to excess of poetry or of stupidity that we are never weary of describing what King James called a woman’s ‘makdom and her fairnesse,’ never weary of listening to the twanging of the old Troubadour strings, and are comparatively uninterested in that other kind of ‘makdom and fairnesse’ which must be wooed with industrious thought and patient renunciation of small desires? In the story of this passion, too, the development varies: sometimes it is the glorious marriage, sometimes frustration and final parting. And not seldom the catastrophe is bound up with the other passion, sung by the Troubadours. For in the multitude of middle-aged men who go about their vocations in a daily course determined for them much in the same way as the tie of their cravats, there is always a good number who once meant to shape their own deeds and alter the world a little. The story of their coming to be shapen after the average and fit to be packed by the gross, is hardly ever told even in their consciousness; for perhaps their ardor in generous unpaid toil cooled as imperceptibly as the ardor of other youthful loves, till one day their earlier self walked like a ghost in its old home and made the new furniture ghastly. Nothing in the world more subtle than the process of their gradual change! In the beginning they inhaled it unknowingly: you and I may have sent some of our breath towards infecting them, when we uttered our conforming falsities or drew our silly conclusions: or perhaps it came with the vibrations from a woman’s glance.
我们不怕一遍又一遍地讲述一个男人如何爱上一个女人并与她结婚，或者与她致命地分开。是因为诗歌过多还是因为愚蠢，我们才乐此不疲地描述詹姆斯国王所说的女人的“makdom and her fairnesse”，乐此不疲地聆听古老的游吟诗人弦乐的鸣响，而对其他方面相对不感兴趣？那种“makdom and fairnesse”必须通过勤奋的思考和耐心地放弃小欲望来实现？在这段激情的故事中，发展也各不相同：有时是辉煌的婚姻，有时是挫折和最终的离别。灾难常常与游吟诗人所唱的另一种激情联系在一起。因为在众多的中年男人中，他们的日常工作就像他们的领带一样为他们所决定，总有很多人曾经想要塑造自己的行为并改变现状。世界一点点。即使在他们的意识中，他们也很少被讲述过他们按照平均水平被塑造并适合被大众包装的故事。因为也许他们对慷慨无酬劳作的热情就像其他年轻爱情的热情一样不知不觉地冷却了，直到有一天，他们以前的自己像幽灵一样走在老房子里，让新家具变得可怕。世界上没有什么比它们逐渐变化的过程更微妙的了！一开始，他们不知不觉地吸入了它：当我们说出我们一致的谎言或得出我们愚蠢的结论时，你和我可能会散发出一些呼吸来感染他们：或者它可能是随着一个女人的目光的振动而来的。

Lydgate did not mean to be one of those failures, and there was the better hope of him because his scientific interest soon took the form of a professional enthusiasm: he had a youthful belief in his bread-winning work, not to be stifled by that initiation in makeshift called his ‘prentice days; and he carried to his studies in London, Edinburgh, and Paris, the conviction that the medical profession as it might be was the finest in the world; presenting the most perfect interchange between science and art; offering the most direct alliance between intellectual conquest and the social good. Lydgate’s nature demanded this combination: he was an emotional creature, with a flesh-and-blood sense of fellowship which withstood all the abstractions of special study. He cared not only for ‘cases,’ but for John and Elizabeth, especially Elizabeth.
利德盖特无意成为那些失败者之一，而且他还有更好的希望，因为他的科学兴趣很快就转化为职业热情：他对自己养家糊口的工作抱有年轻的信念，不会被这种信念所窒息。临时起意的启蒙活动被称为“学徒时期”；他在伦敦、爱丁堡和巴黎求学时坚信医学职业可能是世界上最好的。呈现科学与艺术最完美的交流；在知识征服和社会公益之间提供最直接的联盟。利德盖特的天性需要这样的结合：他是一个情感丰富的人，具有血肉之情的友谊感，能够经受住所有抽象的特殊研究。他不仅关心“案件”，还关心约翰和伊丽莎白，尤其是伊丽莎白。

There was another attraction in his profession: it wanted reform, and gave a man an opportunity for some indignant resolve to reject its venal decorations and other humbug, and to be the possessor of genuine though undemanded qualifications. He went to study in Paris with the determination that when he provincial home again he would settle in some provincial town as a general practitioner, and resist the irrational severance between medical and surgical knowledge in the interest of his own scientific pursuits, as well as of the general advance: he would keep away from the range of London intrigues, jealousies, and social truckling, and win celebrity, however slowly, as Jenner had done, by the independent value of his work. For it must be remembered that this was a dark period; and in spite of venerable colleges which used great efforts to secure purity of knowledge by making it scarce, and to exclude error by a rigid exclusiveness in relation to fees and appointments, it happened that very ignorant young gentlemen were promoted in town, and many more got a legal right to practise over large areas in the country. Also, the high standard held up to the public mind by the College of which which gave its peculiar sanction to the expensive and highly rarefied medical instruction obtained by graduates of Oxford and Cambridge, did not hinder quackery from having an excellent time of it; for since professional practice chiefly consisted in giving a great many drugs, the public inferred that it might be better off with more drugs still, if they could only be got cheaply, and hence swallowed large cubic measures of physic prescribed by unscrupulous ignorance which had taken no degrees. Considering that statistics had not yet embraced a calculation as to the number of ignorant or canting doctors which absolutely must exist in the teeth of all changes, it seemed to Lydgate that a change in the units was the most direct mode of changing the numbers. He meant to be a unit who would make a certain amount of difference towards that spreading change which would one day tell appreciably upon the averages, and in the mean time have the pleasure of making an advantageous difference to the viscera of his own patients. But he did not simply aim at a more genuine kind of practice than was common. He was ambitious of a wider effect: he was fired with the possibility that he might work out the proof of an anatomical conception and make a link in the chain of discovery.
他的职业还有另一个吸引力：它需要改革，并给了一个人一个机会，让他有机会下定决心，拒绝其唯利是图的装饰和其他骗局，并成为真正的资格的拥有者，尽管这些资格是不需要的。他去巴黎求学，决心回到家乡后，要在某个省城定居，当一名全科医生，为了自己的科学追求，也为了人类的利益，抵制医学和外科知识之间的不合理分离。总的进步是：他将远离伦敦的阴谋、嫉妒和社交屈从，并通过自己作品的独立价值赢得名气，无论速度有多慢，就像詹纳所做的那样。因为必须记住，这是一个黑暗时期；尽管那些受人尊敬的大学竭尽全力通过稀缺性来确保知识的纯洁性，并通过在费用和任命方面严格的排他性来排除错误，但碰巧的是，非常无知的年轻绅士在城里得到了晋升，还有更多的人。取得了在国内大面积执业的合法权利。此外，该学院对公众心目中的高标准，对牛津和剑桥毕业生获得的昂贵且高度稀有的医学教育给予了特殊的认可，但这并没有妨碍江湖医生享受美好时光。因为，由于专业实践主要在于给予大量药物，公众推断，如果能够便宜地获得药物，那么服用更多药物可能会更好，因此，他们因无知无知而吞下了大量立方剂量的药物。没有学位。 考虑到统计数据还没有包括对无知或歪曲的医生数量的计算，而这些医生绝对必须存在于所有变化的牙齿中，利德盖特似乎认为单位的变化是改变数字的最直接方式。他打算成为一个能够对这种传播变化产生一定程度的影响的单位，这种变化有一天会在平均水平上明显体现出来，同时也很高兴为他自己的病人的内脏带来有利的变化。但他并不仅仅致力于一种比常见的更真实的实践。他雄心勃勃地追求更广泛的影响：他对自己可能提出解剖学概念的证明并在发现链中建立联系的可能性感到兴奋。

Does it seem incongruous to you that a Middlemarch surgeon should dream of himself as a discoverer? Most of us, indeed, know little of the great originators until they have been lifted up among the constellations and already rule our fates. But that Herschel, for example, who ‘broke the barriers of the heavens’—did he not once play a provincial church-organ, and give music-lessons to stumbling pianists? Each of those Shining Ones had to walk on the earth among neighbors who perhaps thought much more of his gait and his garments than of anything which was to give him a title to everlasting fame: each of them had his little local personal history sprinkled with small temptations and sordid cares, which made the retarding friction of his course towards final companionship with the immortals. Lydgate was not blind to the dangers of such friction, but he had plenty of confidence in his resolution to avoid it as far as possible: being seven-and-twenty, he felt himself experienced. And he was not going to have his vanities provoked by contact with the showy worldly successes of the capital, but to live among people who could hold no rivalry with that pursuit of a great idea which was to be a twin object with the assiduous practice of his profession. There was fascination in the hope that the two purposes would illuminate each other: the careful observation and inference which was his daily work, the use of the lens to further his judgment in special cases, would further his thought as an instrument of larger inquiry. Was not this the typical pre-eminence of his profession? He would be a good Middlemarch doctor, and by that very means keep himself in the track of far-reaching investigation. On one point he may fairly claim approval at this particular stage of his career: he did not mean to imitate those philanthropic models who make a profit out of poisonous pickles to support themselves while they are exposing adulteration, or hold shares in a gambling-hell that they may have leisure to represent the cause of public morality. He intended to begin in his own case some particular reforms which were quite certainly within his reach, and much less of a problem than the demonstrating of an anatomical conception. One of these reforms was to act stoutly on the strength of a recent legal decision, and simply prescribe, without dispensing drugs or taking percentage from druggists. This was an innovation for one who had chosen to adopt the style of general practitioner in a country town, and would be felt as offensive criticism by his professional brethren. But Lydgate meant to innovate in his treatment also, and he was wise enough to see that the best security for his practising honestly according to his belief was to get rid of systematic temptations to the contrary.
一位米德尔马契的外科医生梦想自己成为一名发现者，这对你来说是否显得不协调？事实上，我们大多数人对伟大的创始人知之甚少，直到他们升入星座并主宰我们的命运。但是，例如那个“打破了天堂的障碍”的赫歇​​尔，他不是曾经演奏过地方性的教堂管风琴，也曾经为跌跌撞撞的钢琴家上过音乐课吗？这些光辉人物中的每一个都必须在邻居中行走，而邻居们也许更关心他的步态和服装，而不是任何能让他获得永恒名声的东西：他们每个人都有自己小小的当地个人历史，上面点缀着一些小事。诱惑和肮脏的忧虑，阻碍了他与神仙最终相伴的进程。利德盖特并非对这种摩擦的危险视而不见，但他对自己尽可能避免这种摩擦的决心充满信心：七岁和二十岁的他觉得自己经验丰富。他不会因为与首都浮华的世俗成功接触而激起自己的虚荣心，而是生活在那些对伟大思想的追求与孜孜不倦的实践相辅相成的人中间。他的职业。人们着迷于希望这两个目的能够相互阐明：他的日常工作是仔细观察和推理，使用镜头来进一步促进他对特殊情况的判断，这将进一步促进他作为更广泛的探究工具的思考。这难道不是他职业中典型的卓越表现吗？他将成为一名优秀的米德尔马奇医生，并通过这种方式使自己保持在影响深远的调查的轨道上。 就某一点来说，他在自己职业生涯的这一特定阶段可以说是相当受认可的：他并不是有意效仿那些靠毒腌菜赚钱养活自己、同时揭露掺假、或在赌博地狱中持有股份的慈善模式。他们可以有闲暇代表公共道德事业。他打算针对自己的情况开始一些特定的改革，这些改革肯定是他力所能及的，而且比展示解剖学概念更不成问题。其中一项改革是根据最近的一项法律决定坚决采取行动，并简单地开处方，而不是配药或向药剂师收取百分比。对于一个选择在乡村小镇采用全科医生风格的人来说，这是一项创新，并且会被他的专业弟兄认为是冒犯性的批评。但利德盖特也打算在他的治疗方法上进行创新，他足够明智地看到，按照自己的信仰诚实地练习的最好保障就是摆脱相反的系统性诱惑。

Perhaps that was a more cheerful time for observers and theorizers than the present; we are apt to think it the finest era of the world when America was beginning to be discovered, when a bold sailor, even if he were wrecked, might alight on a new kingdom; and about 1829 the dark territories of Pathology were a fine America for a spirited young adventurer. Lydgate was ambitious above all to contribute towards enlarging the scientific, rational basis of his profession. The more he became interested in special questions of disease, such as the nature of fever or fevers, the more keenly he felt the need for that fundamental knowledge of structure which just at the beginning of the century had been illuminated by the brief and glorious career of Bichat, who died when he was only one-and-thirty, but, like another Alexander, left a realm large enough for many heirs. That great Frenchman first carried out the conception that living bodies, fundamentally considered, are not associations of organs which can be understood by studying them first apart, and then as it were federally; but must be regarded as consisting of certain primary webs or tissues, out of which the various organs—brain, heart, lungs, and so on— are compacted, as the various accommodations of a house are built up in various proportions of wood, iron, stone, brick, zinc, and the rest, each material having its peculiar composition and proportions. No man, one sees, can understand and estimate the entire structure or its parts—what are its frailties and what its repairs, without knowing the nature of the materials. And the conception wrought out by Bichat, with his detailed study of the different tissues, acted necessarily on medical questions as the turning of gas-light would act on a dim, oil-lit street, showing new connections and hitherto hidden facts of structure which must be taken into account in considering the symptoms of maladies and the action of medicaments. But results which depend on human conscience and intelligence work slowly, and now at the end of 1829, most medical practice was still strutting or shambling along the old paths, and there was still scientific work to be done which might have seemed to be a direct sequence of Bichat’s. This great seer did not go beyond the consideration of the tissues as ultimate facts in the living organism, marking the limit of anatomical analysis; but it was open to another mind to say, have not these structures some common basis from which they have all started, as your sarsnet, gauze, net, satin, and velvet from the raw cocoon? Here would be another light, as of oxy-hydrogen, showing the very grain of things, and revising ail former explanations. Of this sequence to Bichat’s work, already vibrating along many currents of the European mind, Lydgate was enamoured; he longed to demonstrate the more intimate relations of living structure, and help to define men’s thought more accurately after the true order. The work had not yet been done, but only prepared for those who knew how to use the preparation. What was the primitive tissue? In that way Lydgate put the question— not quite in the way required by the awaiting answer; but such missing of the right word befalls many seekers. And he counted on quiet intervals to be watchfully seized, for taking up the threads of investigation—on many hints to be won from diligent application, not only of the scalpel, but of the microscope, which research had begun to use again with new enthusiasm of reliance. Such was Lydgate’s plan of his future: to do good small work for Middlemarch, and great work for the world.
对于观察家和理论家来说，也许那个时期比现在更令人愉快。当美洲开始被发现时，我们很容易认为这是世界上最美好的时代，那时一个勇敢的水手，即使他遇难了，也可能降落在一个新的王国；大约在 1829 年，对于一位精力充沛的年轻冒险家来说，病理学的黑暗领域是美好的美国。利德盖特最雄心勃勃的是为扩大他的职业的科学、理性基础做出贡献。他对疾病的特殊问题（例如发烧或发烧的本质）越感兴趣，他就越强烈地感到需要结构的基本知识，而就在本世纪初，他短暂而光荣的职业生涯已经阐明了这些知识。比查特去世时年仅一岁三十，但像另一位亚历山大一样，留下了一个足以容纳许多继承人的王国。这位伟大的法国人首先提出了这样的观点：从根本上来说，生命体并不是器官的组合，可以通过首先将它们分开研究，然后再将它们作为一个整体来理解；但必须被视为由某些初级网或组织组成，其中各种器官（脑、心脏、肺等）被压缩，就像房屋的各种住宿是用不同比例的木头、铁建造的一样、石头、砖、锌等等，每种材料都有其独特的成分和比例。人们发现，在不了解材料性质的情况下，没有人能够理解和估计整个结构或其部分——它的弱点是什么以及它需要修复什么。 比查特提出的概念，通过对不同组织的详细研究，对医学问题产生了必然的作用，就像煤气灯的转动会作用在昏暗的、油灯照亮的街道上一样，显示出新的联系和迄今为止隐藏的结构事实，在考虑疾病的症状和药物的作用时必须考虑到这一点。但依赖于人类良心和智力的成果却进展缓慢，现在到了 1829 年底，大多数医学实践仍然沿着旧路昂首阔步或蹒跚而行，仍然有科学工作要做，这些工作可能看起来是直接的Bichat 的序列。这位伟大的先知并没有超越将组织视为生命有机体的终极事实的考虑，这标志着解剖学分析的极限。但也有人可能会说，这些结构难道没有某种共同的基础吗？它们都是从原茧中开始的，就像你们的沙网、纱布、网、缎子和天鹅绒一样？这将是另一种光，如氢氧，显示事物的本质，并修改所有以前的解释。比查特的这一系列作品已经在欧洲思想的许多潮流中震动，利德盖特被迷住了。他渴望展示生命结构中更为密切的关系，并帮助在真实的秩序之后更准确地定义人的思想。这项工作还没有完成，只是为那些懂得如何使用准备的人准备的。什么是原始组织？利德盖特以这种方式提出了问题——与等待答案所要求的方式不太一样；但许多寻求者都遭遇到这种错误的说法。 他指望着要小心地抓住安静的时间，以便开始调查的线索——从勤奋的应用中获得许多线索，不仅是手术刀，而且是显微镜，研究已经开始以新的热情再次使用显微镜。的依赖。这就是利德盖特对自己未来的计划：为米德尔马契做好小事，为世界做大事。

He was certainly a happy fellow at this time: to be seven-and-twenty, without any fixed vices, with a generous resolution that his action should be beneficent, and with ideas in his brain that made life interesting quite apart from the cultus of horseflesh and other mystic rites of costly observance, which the eight hundred pounds left him after buying his practice would certainly not have gone far in paying for. He was at a starting-point which makes many a man’s career a fine subject for betting, if there were any gentlemen given to that amusement who could appreciate the complicated probabilities of an arduous purpose, with all the possible thwartings and furtherings of circumstance, all the niceties of inward balance, by which a man swims and makes his point or else is carried headlong. The risk would remain even with close knowledge of Lydgate’s character; for character too is a process and an unfolding. The man was still in the making, as much as the Middlemarch doctor and immortal discoverer, and there were both virtues and faults capable of shrinking or expanding. The faults will not, I hope, be a reason for the withdrawal of your interest in him. Among our valued friends is there not some one or other who is a little too self-confident and disdainful; whose distinguished mind is a little spotted with commonness; who is a little pinched here and protuberant there with native. prejudices; or whose better energies are liable to lapse down the wrong channel under the influence of transient solicitations? All these things might be alleged against Lydgate, but then, they are the periphrases of a polite preacher, who talks of Adam, and would not like to mention anything painful to the pew-renters. The particular faults from which these delicate generalities are distilled have distinguishable physiognomies, diction, accent, and grimaces; filling up parts in very various dramas. Our vanities differ as our noses do: all conceit is not the same conceit, but varies in correspondence with the minutiae of mental make in which one of us differs from another. Lydgate’s conceit was of the arrogant sort, never simpering, never impertinent, but massive in its claims and benevolently contemptuous. He would do a great deal for noodles, being sorry for them, and feeling quite sure that they could have no power over him: he had thought of joining the Saint Simonians when he was in Paris, in order to turn them against some of their own doctrines. All his faults were marked by kindred traits, and were those of a man who had a fine baritone, whose clothes hung well upon him, and who even in his ordinary gestures had an air of inbred distinction. Where then lay the spots of commonness? says a young lady enamoured of that careless grace. How could there be any commonness in a man so well-bred, so ambitious of social distinction, so generous and unusual in his views of social duty? As easily as there may be stupidity in a man of genius if you take him unawares on the wrong subject, or as many a man who has the best will to advance the social millennium might be ill-inspired in imagining its lighter pleasures; unable to go beyond Offenbach’s music, or the brilliant punning in the last burlesque. Lydgate’s spots of commonness lay in the complexion of his prejudices, which, in spite of noble intention and sympathy, were half of them such as are found in ordinary men of the world: that distinction of mind which belonged to his intellectual ardor, did not penetrate his feeling and judgment about furniture, or women, or the desirability of its being known (without his telling) that he was better born than other country surgeons. He did not mean to think of furniture at present; but whenever he did so it was to be feared that neither biology nor schemes of reform would lift him above the vulgarity of feeling that there would be an incompatibility in his furniture not being of the best.
此时的他无疑是一个快乐的小伙子：七岁二十岁，没有任何固定的恶习，有一个慷慨的决心，他的行为应该是有益的，他的大脑中有一些想法，使生活变得有趣，远离对宗教的崇拜。马肉和其他昂贵的神秘仪式，购买他的练习后留下的八百英镑肯定不足以支付这些费用。他正处于一个起点，这使得许多人的职业生涯成为一个很好的赌注主题，如果有任何绅士热衷于这种娱乐，能够欣赏一个艰巨的目标的复杂可能性，以及所有可能的阻碍和情况的进展，所有内在平衡的微妙之处，通过它，一个人可以游动并表达自己的观点，否则就会被轻率地冲走。即使充分了解利德盖特的性格，风险仍然存在。对于性格来说，也是一个过程和展开。这个人仍然在成长中，就像米德尔马契医生和不朽的发现者一样，既有优点也有缺点，可以缩小或扩大。我希望这些缺点不会成为你对他失去兴趣的理由。我们尊敬的朋友中，没有一个人是过于自信和轻蔑的；其杰出的头脑中夹杂着一点庸俗；谁与本地人这里有点挤，那里有点突出。偏见；或者谁的更好的能量容易在短暂的恳求的影响下走入错误的渠道？所有这些事情都可能被指控针对利德盖特，但话又说回来，它们是一位礼貌的传教士的旁白，他谈论亚当，并且不想提及任何让长椅租用者痛苦的事情。 从这些微妙的概括中提炼出的具体错误具有明显的相貌、措辞、口音和鬼脸；填补各种戏剧中的角色。我们的虚荣心就像我们的鼻子一样不同：所有的自负都不是同一种自负，而是根据我们中的一个人与另一个人的不同心理构造的细节而变化。利德盖特的自负是傲慢的，从不傻笑，从不无礼，但主张宏大，并且充满仁慈的轻蔑。他会为面条做很多事情，为他们感到难过，并且非常确定他们无法控制他：他在巴黎时曾想过加入圣西门派，以便让他们反对他们的一些人。自己的学说。他所有的缺点都具有相似的特征，而且都是一个有着优美男中音的人的缺点，他的衣服很合身，甚至在他平常的举止中也有一种与生俱来的高贵气质。那么共同点在哪里呢？一位迷恋这种无忧无虑的优雅的年轻女士说道。一个如此有教养、如此雄心勃勃、对社会责任如此慷慨和不同寻常的人，怎么可能有共同点呢？就像一个天才的人可能很容易犯傻，如果你无意中把他弄错了主题一样，或者就像许多最有意愿推进社会千年的人可能在想象其轻松的快乐时受到不良启发一样；无法超越奥芬巴赫的音乐，或最后滑稽剧中精彩的双关语。 利德盖特的共同之处在于他的偏见的肤色，尽管他有崇高的意图和同情心，但其中有一半是世界上普通人身上发现的偏见：属于他的知识热情的思想特征，并没有洞察他对家具或女人的感觉和判断，或者了解（无需他告知）他比其他乡村外科医生出身更好的愿望。他现在不想考虑家具；他现在不想考虑家具。但每当他这样做时，令人担心的是，无论是生物学还是改革方案都无法使他摆脱粗俗的感觉，即他的家具不是最好的，会存在不相容性。

As to women, he had once already been drawn headlong by impetuous folly, which he meant to be final, since marriage at some distant period would of course not be impetuous. For those who want to be acquainted with Lydgate it will be good to know what was that case of impetuous folly, for it may stand as an example of the fitful swerving of passion to which he was prone, together with the chivalrous kindness which helped to make him morally lovable. The story can be told without many words. It happened when he was studying in Paris, and just at the time when, over and above his other work, he was occupied with some galvanic experiments. One evening, tired with his experimenting, and not being able to elicit the facts he needed, he left his frogs and rabbits to some repose under their trying and mysterious dispensation of unexplained shocks, and went to finish his evening at the theatre of the Porte Saint Martin, where there was a melodrama which he had already seen several times; attracted, not by the ingenious work of the collaborating authors, but by an actress whose part it was to stab her lover, mistaking him for the evil-designing duke of the piece. Lydgate was in love with this actress, as a man is in love with a woman whom he never expects to speak to. She was a Provencale, with dark eyes, a Greek profile, and rounded majestic form, having that sort of beauty which carries a sweet matronliness even in youth, and her voice was a soft cooing. She had but lately come to Paris, and bore a virtuous reputation, her husband acting with her as the unfortunate lover. It was her acting which was ‘no better than it should be,’ but the public was satisfied. Lydgate’s only relaxation now was to go and look at this woman, just as he might have thrown himself under the breath of the sweet south on a bank of violets for a while, without prejudice to his galvanism, to which he would presently return. But this evening the old drama had a new catastrophe. At the moment when the heroine was to act the stabbing of her lover, and he was to fall gracefully, the wife veritably stabbed her husband, who fell as death willed. A wild shriek pierced the house, and the Provencale fell swooning: a shriek and a swoon were demanded by the play, but the swooning too was real this time. Lydgate leaped and climbed, he hardly knew how, on to the stage, and was active in help, making the acquaintance of his heroine by finding a contusion on her head and lifting her gently in his arms. Paris rang with the story of this death:—was it a murder? Some of the actress’s warmest admirers were inclined to believe in her guilt, and liked her the better for it (such was the taste of those times); but Lydgate was not one of these. He vehemently contended for her innocence, and the remote impersonal passion for her beauty which he had felt before, had passed now into personal devotion, and tender thought of her lot. The notion of murder was absurd: no motive was discoverable, the young couple being understood to dote on each other; and it was not unprecedented that an accidental slip of the foot should have brought these grave consequences. The legal investigation ended in Madame Laure’s release. Lydgate by this time had had many interviews with her, and found her more and more adorable. She talked little; but that was an additional charm. She was melancholy, and seemed grateful; her presence was enough, like that of the evening light. Lydgate was madly anxious about her affection, and jealous lest any other man than himself should win it and ask her to marry him. But instead of reopening her engagement at the Porte Saint Martin, where she would have been all the more popular for the fatal episode, she left Paris without warning, forsaking her little court of admirers. Perhaps no one carried inquiry far except Lydgate, who felt that all science had come to a stand-still while he imagined the unhappy Laure, stricken by ever-wandering sorrow, herself wandering, and finding no faithful comforter. Hidden actresses, however, are not so difficult to find as some other hidden facts, and it was not long before Lydgate gathered indications that Laure had taken the route to Lyons. He found her at last acting with great success at Avignon under the same name, looking more majestic than ever as a forsaken wife carrying her child in her arms. He spoke to her after the play, was received with the usual quietude which seemed to him beautiful as clear depths of water, and obtained leave to visit her the next day; when he was bent on telling her that he adored her, and on asking her to marry him. He knew that this was like the sudden impulse of a madman—incongruous even with his habitual foibles. No matter! It was the one thing which he was resolved to do. He had two selves within him apparently, and they must learn to accommodate each other and bear reciprocal impediments. Strange, that some of us, with quick alternate vision, see beyond our infatuations, and even while we rave on the heights, behold the wide plain where our persistent self pauses and awaits us.
至于女人，他曾经一度被冲动的愚蠢所吸引，他的意思是这是最终的，因为远期的婚姻当然不会是冲动的。对于那些想了解利德盖特的人来说，了解一下他的鲁莽愚蠢的例子是有好处的，因为这可能是他所倾向的激情的断断续续的转变的一个例子，以及有助于他的骑士般的仁慈。让他在道德上变得可爱。这个故事无需太多言语即可讲述。这件事发生在他在巴黎学习的时候，当时他除了其他工作之外，还忙于一些电化学实验。一天晚上，他厌倦了他的实验，无法得出他需要的事实，于是他让青蛙和兔子在尝试和神秘的无法解释的电击下休息一下，然后去门剧院结束了他的夜晚。圣马丁，那里有一部他已经看过好几次的情节剧；吸引她的不是合作作者的巧妙作品，而是一位女演员的角色，她的角色是刺伤她的情人，误认为他是作品中邪恶的公爵。利德盖特爱上了这位女演员，就像一个男人爱上了一个他从未想过要与之交谈的女人一样。她是普罗旺斯人，深色的眼睛，希腊式的轮廓，圆润雄伟的体态，有一种即使在年轻时也带有甜美母性的美丽，她的声音是轻柔的咕咕声。她刚来到巴黎不久，享有良好的声誉，她的丈夫和她一起充当不幸的情人。就是她的演技“没有达到应有的水平”，但公众还是满意的。 利德盖特现在唯一的放松就是去看这个女人，就像他可以在紫罗兰丛中暂时沉浸在南方甜美的气息中一样，而不影响他的电流，他很快就会回到那里。但今天晚上，老戏又发生了新的灾难。就在女主角要扮演刺伤情人，而他要优雅倒地的那一刻，妻子却名副其实地刺伤了丈夫，而丈夫也死了。一阵狂野的尖叫声穿透了房子，普罗旺斯号昏倒了：戏剧要求尖叫和昏倒，但这一次昏倒也是真实的。利德盖特不知怎么地又跳又爬，登上舞台，积极帮忙，发现了他的女主角头上的挫伤，并轻轻地将她抱在怀里，结识了她。巴黎响起了这起死亡事件的消息：——这是一起谋杀案吗？这位女演员的一些最热情的崇拜者倾向于相信她有罪，并因此更喜欢她（这就是那个时代的品味）。但利德盖特不是其中之一。他强烈地辩称她是清白的，他以前对她的美貌抱有一种遥远的、非个人的热情，现在已经变成了个人的忠诚和对她命运的温柔思考。谋杀的想法是荒谬的：没有任何动机被发现，这对年轻夫妇被认为是互相宠爱的；一次意外的脚滑就会带来如此严重的后果，这并非史无前例。法律调查以劳尔夫人获释而结束。此时利德盖特已经对她进行了多次采访，发现她越来越可爱。她话很少；但这是一个额外的魅力。她很忧郁，但又似乎很感激。她的存在就足够了，就像傍晚的光一样。 利德盖特对她的感情感到疯狂的焦虑，并且嫉妒，唯恐除了他自己之外，还有其他男人会赢得她的青睐并向她求婚。但她并没有在圣马丁门重新举行订婚仪式，因为在那场致命事件，她本来会更受欢迎，而是在没有任何警告的情况下离开了巴黎，放弃了她的小小宫廷。也许除了利德盖特之外，没有人进行过深入的探究，他觉得所有的科学都陷入了停滞，而他想象着不幸的劳尔，被不断徘徊的悲伤所折磨，她自己徘徊，找不到忠实的安慰。然而，隐藏的女演员并不像其他隐藏的事实那么难找到，不久之后，利德盖特就收集到劳尔已经前往里昂的迹象。他终于发现她以同名在阿维尼翁演出并取得了巨大成功，看起来比以往任何时候都更加威严，就像一个怀里抱着孩子的被遗弃的妻子。演出结束后，他与她交谈，受到了平常的安静的接待，这对他来说就像清澈的深水一样美丽，并获准第二天去看望她。当他一心想要告诉她他爱她，并向她求婚时。他知道这就像一个疯子突然的冲动——甚至与他惯有的毛病也不相称。不管！这是他决心要做的一件事。他的内心显然有两个自我，他们必须学会互相迁就、互相包容。奇怪的是，我们中的一些人，以快速交替的视野，超越了我们的迷恋，甚至当我们在高处狂欢时，看到了我们执着的自我停下来等待我们的广阔平原。

To have approached Laure with any suit that was not reverentially tender would have been simply a contradiction of his whole feeling towards her.
如果穿着任何不恭敬温柔的套装来接近劳尔，就会与他对她的整体感情相矛盾。

‘You have come all the way from Paris to find me?’ she said to him the next day, sitting before him with folded arms, and looking at him with eyes that seemed to wonder as an untamed ruminating animal wonders. ‘Are all Englishmen like that?’
“你大老远从巴黎赶来找我？”第二天，她抱着双臂坐在他面前，用充满好奇的眼神看着他，就像一头未驯服的动物在思考奇迹一样。 “所有英国人都是这样吗？”

‘I came because I could not live without trying to see you. You are lonely; I love you; I want you to consent to be my wife; I will wait, but I want you to promise that you will marry me— no one else.’
“我来是因为如果不想见你我就活不下去。你是孤独的；我爱你;我要你同意做我的妻子；我会等，但我要你保证你会嫁给我——不会是其他人。”

Laure looked at him in silence with a melancholy radiance from under her grand eyelids, until he was full of rapturous certainty, and knelt close to her knees.
劳尔默默地看着他，大眼皮下闪烁着忧郁的光芒，直到他充满了欣喜若狂的确定性，跪在了她的膝边。

‘I will tell you something,’ she said, in her cooing way, keeping her arms folded. ‘My foot really slipped.’
“我会告诉你一件事，”她抱着双臂，以咕咕的方式说道。 “我的脚真的滑倒了。”

‘I know, I know,’ said Lydgate, deprecatingly. ‘It was a fatal accident— a dreadful stroke of calamity that bound me to you the more.’
“我知道，我知道，”利德盖特不以为然地说。 “这是一场致命的事故——一场可怕的灾难，让我和你的联系更加紧密。”

Again Laure paused a little and then said, slowly, ‘I MEANT TO DO IT.’
劳尔再次停顿了一下，然后慢慢地说：“我就是想这么做。”

Lydgate, strong man as he was, turned pale and trembled: moments seemed to pass before he rose and stood at a distance from her.
利德盖特虽然是个强壮的男人，但他的脸色变得苍白，浑身发抖：似乎过了好一会儿，他才站起来，站在离她很远的地方。

‘There was a secret, then,’ he said at last, even vehemently. ‘He was brutal to you: you hated him.’
“那么，有一个秘密，”他最后说道，语气甚至很激烈。 “他对你很残酷：你恨他。”

‘No! he wearied me; he was too fond: he would live in Paris, and not in my country; that was not agreeable to me.’
'不！他让我感到厌倦；他太喜欢了：他会住在巴黎，而不是我的国家；这对我来说是不愉快的。

‘Great God!’ said Lydgate, in a groan of horror. ‘And you planned to murder him?’
“天哪！”利德盖特惊恐地呻吟着说道。 “你打算谋杀他吗？”

‘I did not plan: it came to me in the play—I MEANT TO DO IT.’
“我没有计划：我在戏剧中想到了这一点——我本来就打算这么做。”

Lydgate stood mute, and unconsciously pressed his hat on while he looked at her. He saw this woman—the first to whom he had given his young adoration—amid the throng of stupid criminals.
利德盖特一言不发地站着，看着她，不自觉地戴上了帽子。他在一群愚蠢的罪犯中看到了这个女人——他年轻时所崇拜的第一个女人。

‘You are a good young man,’ she said. ‘But I do not like husbands. I will never have another.’
“你是一个好年轻人，”她说。 “但我不喜欢丈夫。我再也不会拥有另一个了。

Three days afterwards Lydgate was at his galvanism again in his Paris chambers, believing that illusions were at an end for him. He was saved from hardening effects by the abundant kindness of his heart and his belief that human life might be made better. But he had more reason than ever for trusting his judgment, now that it was so experienced; and henceforth he would take a strictly scientific view of woman, entertaining no expectations but such as were justified beforehand.
三天后，利德盖特再次在巴黎的房间里进行电流活动，相信他的幻想已经结束。由于他内心充沛的仁慈和他对人类生活可以变得更美好的信念，他摆脱了硬化的影响。但他比以往任何时候都更有理由相信自己的判断，因为他的判断已经如此丰富了。从此以后，他将对女性采取严格的科学观点，除了事先合理的之外，不抱任何期望。

No one in Middle march was likely to have such a notion of Lydgate’s past as has here been faintly shadowed, and indeed the respectable townsfolk there were not more given than mortals generally to any eager attempt at exactness in the representation to themselves of what did not come under their own senses. Not only young virgins of that town, but gray-bearded men also, were often in haste to conjecture how a new acquaintance might be wrought into their purposes, contented with very vague knowledge as to the way in which life had been shaping him for that instrumentality. Middlemarch, in fact, counted on swallowing Lydgate and assimilating him very comfortably.
在三月中旬，没有人可能对利德盖特的过去有这样的了解，就像这里隐约可见的那样，事实上，那里的可敬的镇民并不比凡人更热心地试图准确地向自己描述那些没有发生过的事情。他们自己的感觉。不仅是镇上的年轻处女，就连白胡子男人也常常急于猜测如何将新认识的人实现他们的目的，满足于生活如何塑造他的非常模糊的知识。工具性。事实上，米德尔马契指望吞下利德盖特并轻松地融入他。

CHAPTER XVI
第十六章

‘All that in woman is adored
‘女人身上的一切都受到崇拜

In thy fair self I find—
在你美丽的自我中我发现——

For the whole sex can but afford
对于所有性别来说都只能负担得起

The handsome and the kind.’
又帅又善良。

—SIR CHARLES SEDLEY.
——查尔斯·塞德利爵士。

The question whether Mr. Tyke should be appointed as salaried chaplain to the hospital was an exciting topic to the Middlemarchers; and Lydgate heard it discussed in a way that threw much light on the power exercised in the town by Mr. Bulstrode. The banker was evidently a ruler, but there was an opposition party, and even among his supporters there were some who allowed it to be seen that their support was a compromise, and who frankly stated their impression that the general scheme of things, and especially the casualties of trade, required you to hold a candle to the devil.
对于米德尔马彻夫妇来说，泰克先生是否应该被任命为医院的领薪牧师是一个令人兴奋的话题。利德盖特听到讨论的方式让人们更加了解布尔斯特罗德先生在镇上行使的权力。银行家显然是一位统治者，但有一个反对党，甚至在他的支持者中也有一些人让人们认为他们的支持是一种妥协，并坦率地表达了他们的印象，即总体计划，特别是贸易的伤亡，要求你向魔鬼望去。

Mr. Bulstrode’s power was not due simply to his being a country banker, who knew the financial secrets of most traders in the town and could touch the springs of their credit; it was fortified by a beneficence that was at once ready and severe—ready to confer obligations, and severe in watching the result. He had gathered, as an industrious man always at his post, a chief share in administering the town charities, and his private charities were both minute and abundant. He would take a great deal of pains about apprenticing Tegg the shoemaker’s son, and he would watch over Tegg’s church-going; he would defend Mrs. Strype the washerwoman against Stubbs’s unjust exaction on the score of her drying-ground, and he would himself-scrutinize a calumny against Mrs. Strype. His private minor loans were numerous, but he would inquire strictly into the circumstances both before and after. In this way a man gathers a domain in his neighbors’ hope and fear as well as gratitude; and power, when once it has got into that subtle region, propagates itself, spreading out of all proportion to its external means. It was a principle with Mr. Bulstrode to gain as much power as possible, that he might use it for the glory of God. He went through a great deal of spiritual conflict and inward argument in order to adjust his motives, and make clear to himself what God’s glory required. But, as we have seen, his motives were not always rightly appreciated. There were many crass minds in Middlemarch whose reflective scales could only weigh things in the lump; and they had a strong suspicion that since Mr. Bulstrode could not enjoy life in their fashion, eating and drinking so little as he did, and worreting himself about everything, he must have a sort of vampire’s feast in the sense of mastery.
布尔斯特罗德先生的权力不仅仅在于他是一名乡村银行家，他知道镇上大多数商人的财务秘密，并且可以触及他们的信用源泉；他还拥有权力。这种仁慈得到了加强，这种仁慈既准备好又严厉——准备好赋予义务，并严格监督结果。作为一个始终在自己岗位上勤奋的人，他在管理城镇慈善事业方面占据了主要份额，而他的私人慈善事业既微小又丰富。他会煞费苦心地为鞋匠的儿子泰格当学徒，并且会照顾泰格去教堂。他会为洗衣妇斯特莱普夫人辩护，反对斯塔布斯对她的晒场进行不公正的勒索，他也会亲自审查对斯特莱普夫人的诽谤。他的私人小额贷款虽多，但前后情况他都会严格追问。就这样，一个人在邻居的希望、恐惧和感激中聚集了一片领地；权力一旦进入那个微妙的领域，就会自我传播，其传播与其外在手段不成比例。布尔斯特罗德先生的原则是获得尽可能多的权力，以便他可以用它来荣耀上帝。他经历了很多属灵的冲突和内心的争论，为的是调整自己的动机，明白神的荣耀所要求的是什么。但是，正如我们所看到的，他的动机并不总是得到正确的理解。米德尔马契有很多粗鲁的人，他们的反思天平只能整体衡量事物的重量。他们强烈怀疑，既然布尔斯特罗德先生无法按照他们的方式享受生活，像他一样吃得很少，喝得很少，而且对一切都担心自己，那么他一定是在享受某种吸血鬼的盛宴。

The subject of the chaplaincy came up at Mr. Vincy’s table when Lydgate was dining there, and the family connection with Mr. Bulstrode did not, he observed, prevent some freedom of remark even on the part of the host himself, though his reasons against the proposed arrangement turned entirely on his objection to Mr. Tyke’s sermons, which were all doctrine, and his preference for Mr. Farebrother, whose sermons were free from that taint. Mr. Vincy liked well enough the notion of the chaplain’s having a salary, supposing it were given to Farebrother, who was as good a little fellow as ever breathed, and the best preacher anywhere, and companionable too.
当利德盖特在那里用餐时，牧师的话题在文西先生的餐桌上出现了，他观察到，与布尔斯特罗德先生的家庭关系并没有阻止即使是主人本人也有一定的言论自由，尽管他的理由反对拟议的安排完全取决于他对泰克先生的布道的反对，这些布道都是教条，以及他对费雷布拉泽先生的偏爱，他的布道没有这种污点。文西先生非常喜欢牧师有薪水的想法，假设它是给费厄布拉泽的，他是一个一如既往的好小伙子，是任何地方最好的传教士，而且也很友善。

‘What line shall you take, then?’ said Mr. Chichely, the coroner, a great coursing comrade of Mr. Vincy’s.
“那么，你该采取什么立场呢？”验尸官奇切利先生说道，他是文西先生的好战友。

‘Oh, I’m precious glad I’m not one of the Directors now. I shall vote for referring the matter to the Directors and the Medical Board together. I shall roll some of my responsibility on your shoulders, Doctor,’ said Mr. Vincy, glancing first at Dr. Sprague, the senior physician of the town, and then at Lydgate who sat opposite. ‘You medical gentlemen must consult which sort of black draught you will prescribe, eh, Mr. Lydgate?’
“哦，我很高兴我现在不是董事之一。我将投票赞成将此事一起提交给董事和医疗委员会。我将把我的部分责任推到你的肩上，医生。”文西先生说，他首先看了一眼镇上的高级医生斯普拉格医生，然后又看了一眼坐在对面的利德盖特。 “你们这些医学先生必须咨询一下你们会开哪种黑药，嗯，利德盖特先生？”

‘I know little of either,’ said Lydgate; ‘but in general, appointments are apt to be made too much a question of personal liking. The fittest man for a particular post is not always the best fellow or the most agreeable. Sometimes, if you wanted to get a reform, your only way would be to pension off the good fellows whom everybody is fond of, and put them out of the question.’
“我对这两件事都知之甚少，”利德盖特说。 “但总的来说，任命很容易成为过多的个人喜好问题。最适合某个职位的人并不总是最好的或最令人愉快的。有时，如果你想进行改革，你唯一的办法就是从每个人都喜欢的好人那里退休，并把他们排除在外。

Dr. Sprague, who was considered the physician of most ‘weight,’ though Dr. Minchin was usually said to have more ‘penetration,’ divested his large heavy face of all expression, and looked at his wine-glass while Lydgate was speaking. Whatever was not problematical and suspected about this young man—for example, a certain showiness as to foreign ideas, and a disposition to unsettle what had been settled and forgotten by his elders— was positively unwelcome to a physician whose standing had been fixed thirty years before by a treatise on Meningitis, of which at least one copy marked ‘own’ was bound in calf. For my part I have some fellow-feeling with Dr. Sprague: one’s self-satisfaction is an untaxed kind of property which it is very unpleasant to find deprecated.
斯普拉格医生被认为是最“有分量”的医生，尽管明钦医生通常被认为更有“洞察力”，在利德盖特说话时，斯普拉格医生把他厚重的大脸上没有任何表情，看着他的酒杯。这个年轻人身上任何没有问题和可疑的地方——例如，对外国思想的某种炫耀，以及动摇长辈已经解决和忘记的事情的倾向——对于一个地位已经固定了三十年的医生来说，绝对是不受欢迎的。之前写过一篇关于脑膜炎的论文，其中至少有一本标有“自己的”的副本是用小牛皮装订的。就我而言，我与斯普拉格博士有一些共鸣：一个人的自我满足是一种免税的财产，如果发现它被废弃是非常不愉快的。

Lydgate’s remark, however, did not meet the sense of the company. Mr. Vincy said, that if he could have HIS way, he would not put disagreeable fellows anywhere.
然而，利德盖特的言论并不符合该公司的感觉。文西先生说，如果他能按自己的方式行事，他不会把那些令人不快的家伙放在任何地方。

‘Hang your reforms!’ said Mr. Chichely. ‘There’s no greater humbug in the world. You never hear of a reform, but it means some trick to put in new men. I hope you are not one of the ‘Lancet’s’ men, Mr. Lydgate—wanting to take the coronership out of the hands of the legal profession: your words appear to point that way.’
“搁置你的改革吧！”奇切利先生说道。 “世界上没有比这更大的骗局了。你从来没有听说过改革，但这意味着引入新人的一些技巧。我希望你不是《柳叶刀》的人之一，利德盖特先生——想把验尸官的职位从法律界手中夺走：你的话似乎表明了这一点。

‘I disapprove of Wakley,’ interposed Dr. Sprague, ‘no man more: he is an ill-intentioned fellow, who would sacrifice the respectability of the profession, which everybody knows depends on the London Colleges, for the sake of getting some notoriety for himself. There are men who don’t mind about being kicked blue if they can only get talked about. But Wakley is right sometimes,’ the Doctor added, judicially. ‘I could mention one or two points in which Wakley is in the right.’
“我不赞成韦克利，”斯普拉格博士插话道，“他是一个居心不良的家伙，为了获得一些恶名，他会牺牲这个职业的尊严，​​每个人都知道这取决于伦敦学院。”为他自己。有些男人并不介意被踢成蓝色，只要他们只能被谈论。但瓦克利有时是对的，”博士公正地补充道。 “我可以提一两点，韦克利是正确的。”

‘Oh, well,’ said Mr. Chichely, ‘I blame no man for standing up in favor of his own cloth; but, coming to argument, I should like to know how a coroner is to judge of evidence if he has not had a legal training?’
“哦，好吧，”奇切利先生说，“我不会责怪任何人站出来支持自己的布料；但我不会责怪他。”但是，说到争论，我想知道如果验尸官没有接受过法律培训，他将如何判断证据？

‘In my opinion,’ said Lydgate, ‘legal training only makes a man more incompetent in questions that require knowledge a of another kind. People talk about evidence as if it could really be weighed in scales by a blind Justice. No man can judge what is good evidence on any particular subject, unless he knows that subject well. A lawyer is no better than an old woman at a post-mortem examination. How is he to know the action of a poison? You might as well say that scanning verse will teach you to scan the potato crops.’
“在我看来，”利德盖特说，“法律培训只会让一个人在需要另一种知识的问题上变得更加无能。人们谈论证据就好像它真的可以由盲目的法官在天平上称重一样。没有人能够判断什么是任何特定主题的良好证据，除非他非常了解该主题。在尸检中，律师并不比老妇人好多少。他怎么知道毒药的作用呢？你不妨说扫描诗句会教你扫描马铃薯作物。

‘You are aware, I suppose, that it is not the coroner’s business to conduct the post-mortem, but only to take the evidence of the medical witness?’ said Mr. Chichely, with some scorn.
“我想，你知道验尸官的职责不是进行尸检，而只是获取医学证人的证据吗？”奇切利先生带着几分轻蔑地说。

‘Who is often almost as ignorant as the coroner himself,’ said Lydgate. ‘Questions of medical jurisprudence ought not to be left to the chance of decent knowledge in a medical witness, and the coroner ought not to be a man who will believe that strychnine will destroy the coats of the stomach if an ignorant practitioner happens to tell him so.’
“他常常几乎和验尸官本人一样无知，”利德盖特说。 “医学法理学问题不应该交给医学证人是否有足够的知识，验尸官也不应该相信，如果无知的医生碰巧告诉他，士的宁会破坏胃壁。”所以。'

Lydgate had really lost sight of the fact that Mr. Chichely was his Majesty’s coroner, and ended innocently with the question, ‘Don’t you agree with me, Dr. Sprague?’
利德盖特确实忘记了奇切利先生是国王陛下的验尸官这一事实，并天真地以这样的问题结束：“斯普拉格博士，你不同意我的观点吗？”

‘To a certain extent—with regard to populous districts, and in the metropolis,’ said the Doctor. ‘But I hope it will be long before this part of the country loses the services of my friend Chichely, even though it might get the best man in our profession to succeed him. I am sure Vincy will agree with me.’
“在某种程度上——对于人口稠密的地区和大都市来说，”博士说。 “但我希望这个国家的这个地区很快就会失去我的朋友奇切利的服务，尽管这可能会让我们行业中最优秀的人接替他。我相信文西会同意我的观点。

‘Yes, yes, give me a coroner who is a good coursing man,’ said Mr. Vincy, jovially. ‘And in my opinion, you’re safest with a lawyer. Nobody can know everything. Most things are ‘visitation of God.’ And as to poisoning, why, what you want to know is the law. Come, shall we join the ladies?’
“是的，是的，请给我一个善于追踪的验尸官，”文西先生高兴地说。 “在我看来，找律师是最安全的。”没有人能知道一切。大多数事情都是‘上帝造访’。至于中毒，为什么，你想知道的是法律。来吧，我们要加入女士们吗？

Lydgate’s private opinion was that Mr. Chichely might be the very coroner without bias as to the coats of the stomach, but he had not meant to be personal. This was one of the difficulties of moving in good Middlemarch society: it was dangerous to insist on knowledge as a qualification for any salaried office. Fred Vincy had called Lydgate a prig, and now Mr. Chichely was inclined to call him prick-eared; especially when, in the drawing-room, he seemed to be making himself eminently agreeable to Rosamond, whom he had easily monopolized in a tete-a-tete, since Mrs. Vincy herself sat at the tea-table. She resigned no domestic function to her daughter; and the matron’s blooming good-natured face, with the two volatile pink strings floating from her fine throat, and her cheery manners to husband and children, was certainly among the great attractions of the Vincy house—attractions which made it all the easier to fall in love with the daughter. The tinge of unpretentious, inoffensive vulgarity in Mrs. Vincy gave more effect to Rosamond’s refinement, which was beyond what Lydgate had expected.
利德盖特的个人观点是，奇切利先生可能就是对胃壁没有偏见的验尸官，但他并不是有意针对个人。这是在良好的米德尔马契社会中生活的困难之一：坚持以知识作为任何受薪职位的资格是危险的。弗雷德·文西曾称利德盖特为一本正经的人，而现在奇切利先生则倾向于称他为立耳者。尤其是在客厅里，他似乎对罗莎蒙德表现得非常满意，因为文西夫人本人就坐在茶几旁，他很容易就在一对一的交谈中垄断了罗莎蒙德。她没有辞去女儿的家务职务。女主人那张和蔼可亲的脸庞，细细喉咙里飘出的两根不稳定的粉红线，以及她对丈夫和孩子们的愉快举止，无疑是文西家最吸引人的地方之一——这些吸引人的地方让人更容易坠入爱河。爱上了女儿。文西夫人身上那股朴实无华、无伤大雅的粗俗气息，更加衬托出罗莎蒙德的文雅，这超出了利德盖特的预期。

Certainly, small feet and perfectly turned shoulders aid the impression of refined manners, and the right thing said seems quite astonishingly right when it is accompanied with exquisite curves of lip and eyelid. And Rosamond could say the right thing; for she was clever with that sort of cleverness which catches every tone except the humorous. Happily she never attempted to joke, and this perhaps was the most decisive mark of her cleverness.
当然，小脚和完美的肩膀有助于给人一种优雅举止的印象，而当它伴随着嘴唇和眼睑的精致曲线时，所说的正确的话似乎是非常正确的。罗莎蒙德说的是对的；因为她很聪明，她的聪明才智能够捕捉到除幽默之外的所有语气。值得庆幸的是，她从来没有试图开玩笑，这也许是她聪明的最决定性的标志。

She and Lydgate readily got into conversation. He regretted that he had not heard her sing the other day at Stone Court. The only pleasure he allowed himself during the latter part of his stay in Paris was to go and hear music.
她和利德盖特很快就开始交谈。他很遗憾那天没有在石阁听她唱歌。在巴黎逗留后期，他唯一的乐趣就是去听音乐。

‘You have studied music, probably?’ said Rosamond.
“你可能学过音乐吧？”罗莎蒙德说。

‘No, I know the notes of many birds, and I know many melodies by ear; but the music that I don’t know at all, and have no notion about, delights me—affects me. How stupid the world is that it does not make more use of such a pleasure within its reach!’
“不，我听得懂许多鸟儿的音符，听得懂许多旋律；但我完全不懂、也没有概念的音乐却让我高兴——影响我。这个世界是多么愚蠢啊，它没有更多地利用这种力所能及的快乐！

‘Yes, and you will find Middlemarch very tuneless. There are hardly any good musicians. I only know two gentlemen who sing at all well.’
“是的，你会发现米德尔马奇非常不调调。几乎没有什么好的音乐家。我只认识两位唱歌很好听的绅士。

‘I suppose it is the fashion to sing comic songs in a rhythmic way, leaving you to fancy the tune—very much as if it were tapped on a drum?’
“我认为以有节奏的方式唱喜剧歌曲是一种时尚，让你喜欢曲调——就像是在鼓上敲击一样？”

‘Ah, you have heard Mr. Bowyer,’ said Rosamond, with one of her rare smiles. ‘But we are speaking very ill of our neighbors.’
“啊，你已经听到鲍耶先生的话了，”罗莎蒙德说道，脸上露出了罕见的微笑。 “但我们说邻居的坏话。”

Lydgate was almost forgetting that he must carry on the conversation, in thinking how lovely this creature was, her garment seeming to be made out of the faintest blue sky, herself so immaculately blond, as if the petals of some gigantic flower had just opened and disclosed her; and yet with this infantine blondness showing so much ready, self-possessed grace. Since he had had the memory of Laure, Lydgate had lost all taste for large-eyed silence: the divine cow no longer attracted him, and Rosamond was her very opposite. But he recalled himself.
利德盖特几乎忘记了他必须继续谈话，想着这个生物是多么可爱，她的衣服似乎是由最淡的蓝天制成的，她自己是那么完美的金发，仿佛某种巨大的花朵的花瓣刚刚开放，揭露了她；然而，她那婴儿般的金发却显示出如此多的准备就绪、泰然自若的优雅。自从有了劳尔的记忆后，利德盖特就失去了对大眼睛沉默的所有兴趣：神牛不再吸引他，而罗莎蒙德则与她截然相反。但他想起了自己。

‘You will let me hear some music to-night, I hope.’
“我希望今晚你能让我听一些音乐。”

‘I will let you hear my attempts, if you like,’ said Rosamond. ‘Papa is sure to insist on my singing. But I shall tremble before you, who have heard the best singers in Paris. I have heard very little: I have only once been to London. But our organist at St. Peter’s is a good musician, and I go on studying with him.’
“如果你愿意的话，我会让你听听我的尝试，”罗莎蒙德说。 ‘爸爸一定会坚持让我唱歌的。但我会在你们面前颤抖，你们听过巴黎最好的歌手的表演。我听说的很少：我只去过伦敦一次。但我们圣彼得大教堂的管风琴师是一位优秀的音乐家，我继续跟随他学习。

‘Tell me what you saw in London.’
“告诉我你在伦敦看到了什么。”

‘Very little.’ (A more naive girl would have said, ‘Oh, everything!’ But Rosamond knew better.) ‘A few of the ordinary sights, such as raw country girls are always taken to.’
“很少。”（一个更天真的女孩会说，“哦，一切！”但罗莎蒙德更清楚。）“一些普通的景象，比如原始的乡村女孩总是被吸引。”

‘Do you call yourself a raw country girl?’ said Lydgate, looking at her with an involuntary emphasis of admiration, which made Rosamond blush with pleasure. But she remained simply serious, turned her long neck a little, and put up her hand to touch her wondrous hair-plaits— an habitual gesture with her as pretty as any movements of a kitten’s paw. Not that Rosamond was in the least like a kitten: she was a sylph caught young and educated at Mrs. Lemon’s.
“你自称是一个原始的乡村女孩吗？”利德盖特说，不自觉地用钦佩的目光看着她，这让罗莎蒙德高兴得脸红了。但她仍然很严肃，稍微转动她的长脖子，举起手抚摸她奇妙的发辫——这是她的习惯动作，就像小猫爪子的任何动作一样漂亮。罗莎蒙德一点也不像一只小猫：她是一个年轻时就在莱蒙夫人家接受教育的精灵。

‘I assure you my mind is raw,’ she said immediately; ‘I pass at Middlemarch. I am not afraid of talking to our old neighbors. But I am really afraid of you.’
“我向你保证，我的头脑很清醒，”她立即说道。 “我在米德尔马奇经过。我不害怕和我们的老邻居交谈。但我真的很怕你。

‘An accomplished woman almost always knows more than we men, though her knowledge is of a different sort. I am sure you could teach me a thousand things—as an exquisite bird could teach a bear if there were any common language between them. Happily, there is a common language between women and men, and so the bears can get taught.’
“一个有成就的女人几乎总是比我们男人懂得更多，尽管她的知识种类不同。我相信你可以教我一千件事——就像一只精致的鸟可以教一只熊，如果它们之间有任何共同语言的话。令人高兴的是，女性和男性之间有共同语言，因此熊可以接受教育。

‘Ah, there is Fred beginning to strum! I must go and hinder him from jarring all your nerves,’ said Rosamond, moving to the other side of the room, where Fred having opened the piano, at his father’s desire, that Rosamond might give them some music, was parenthetically performing ‘Cherry Ripe!’ with one hand. Able men who have passed their examinations will do these things sometimes, not less than the plucked Fred.
“啊，弗雷德开始弹奏了！我必须去阻止他扰乱你们所有的神经，”罗莎蒙德说道，走到房间的另一边，弗雷德按照他父亲的意愿打开了钢琴，罗莎蒙德可能会给他们一些音乐，正在演奏“樱桃”成熟了！”用一只手。通过考试的有才干的人有时也会做这些事，不亚于被挑拨的弗雷德。

‘Fred, pray defer your practising till to-morrow; you will make Mr. Lydgate ill,’ said Rosamond. ‘He has an ear.’
“弗雷德，请把你的练习推迟到明天； “你会让利德盖特先生生病的。”罗莎蒙德说。 “他有耳朵。”

Fred laughed, and went on with his tune to the end.
弗雷德笑了，继续他的曲调直到最后。

Rosamond turned to Lydgate, smiling gently, and said, ‘You perceive, the bears will not always be taught.’
罗莎蒙德转向利德盖特，温柔地微笑着说：“你知道，熊并不总是会被教导。”

‘Now then, Rosy!’ said Fred, springing from the stool and twisting it upward for her, with a hearty expectation of enjoyment. ‘Some good rousing tunes first.’
“那么，罗西！”弗雷德说，从凳子上跳起来，为她把凳子向上扭转，满心期待着享受。 “先来一些好听的振奋人心的曲子。”

Rosamond played admirably. Her master at Mrs. Lemon’s school (close to a county town with a memorable history that had its relics in church and castle) was one of those excellent musicians here and there to be found in our provinces, worthy to compare with many a noted Kapellmeister in a country which offers more plentiful conditions of musical celebrity. Rosamond, with the executant’s instinct, had seized his manner of playing, and gave forth his large rendering of noble music with the precision of an echo. It was almost startling, heard for the first time. A hidden soul seemed to be flowing forth from Rosamond’s fingers; and so indeed it was, since souls live on in perpetual echoes, and to all fine expression there goes somewhere an originating activity, if it be only that of an interpreter. Lydgate was taken possession of, and began to believe in her as something exceptional. After all, he thought, one need not be surprised to find the rare conjunctions of nature under circumstances apparently unfavorable: come where they may, they always depend on conditions that are not obvious. He sat looking at her, and did not rise to pay her any compliments, leaving that to others, now that his admiration was deepened.
罗莎蒙德的表现令人钦佩。她在莱蒙夫人学校（靠近一个有着令人难忘的历史的县城，有教堂和城堡的遗迹）的老师是我们各省到处可见的优秀音乐家之一，值得与许多著名的管弦乐大师相比较在一个为音乐名人提供更丰富条件的国家。罗莎蒙德凭着演奏者的本能，抓住了他的演奏方式，以回声般的精确度，演奏出了他宏大的高贵音乐。这几乎是令人震惊的，第一次听到。一个隐藏的灵魂似乎从罗莎蒙德的手指中流淌出来；确实如此，因为灵魂生活在永恒的回声中，而对于所有精美的表达来说，如果它只是一个解释者的活动，那么它就会在某个地方发生。利德盖特被占据了，并开始相信她是非凡的。毕竟，他认为，人们不必惊讶于在明显不利的情况下发现自然的罕见结合：无论它们发生在哪里，它们总是依赖于并不明显的条件。他坐在那儿看着她，并没有起身去恭维她，而是留给了其他人，现在他的钦佩之情更深了。

Her singing was less remarkable? but also well trained, and sweet to hear as a chime perfectly in tune. It is true she sang ‘Meet me by moonlight,’ and ‘I’ve been roaming;’ for mortals must share the fashions of their time, and none but the ancients can be always classical. But Rosamond could also sing ‘Black-eyed Susan’ with effect, or Haydn’s canzonets, or ‘Voi, che sapete,’ or ‘Batti, batti’—she only wanted to know what her audience liked.
她的歌声没那么出色？但也训练有素，听起来很悦耳，就像完美的钟声一样。确实，她唱过《月光下与我相见》和《我一直在流浪》，因为凡人必须分享他们时代的时尚，只有古人才能永远经典。但罗莎蒙德也可以有效地唱“黑眼苏珊”，或者海顿的小调，或者“Voi，che sapete”或“Batti，batti”——她只想知道她的观众喜欢什么。

Her father looked round at the company, delighting in their admiration. Her mother sat, like a Niobe before her troubles, with her youngest little girl on her lap, softly beating the child’s hand up and down in time to the music. And Fred, notwithstanding his general scepticism about Rosy, listened to her music with perfect allegiance, wishing he could do the same thing on his flute. It was the pleasantest family party that Lydgate had seen since he came to Middlemarch. The Vincys had the readiness to enjoy, the rejection of all anxiety, and the belief in life as a merry lot, which made a house exceptional in most county towns at that time, when Evangelicalism had east a certain suspicion as of plague-infection over the few amusements which survived in the provinces. At the Vincys’ there was always whist, and the card-tables stood ready now, making some of the company secretly impatient of the music. Before it ceased Mr. Farebrother came in— a handsome, broad-chested but otherwise small man, about forty, whose black was very threadbare: the brilliancy was all in his quick gray eyes. He came like a pleasant change in the light, arresting little Louisa with fatherly nonsense as she was being led out of the room by Miss Morgan, greeting everybody with some special word, and seeming to condense more talk into ten minutes than had been held all through the evening. He claimed from Lydgate the fulfilment of a promise to come and see him. ‘I can’t let you off, you know, because I have some beetles to show you. We collectors feel an interest in every new man till he has seen all we have to show him.’
她的父亲环顾四周，为他们的钦佩而感到高兴。她的母亲坐在她的腿上，就像尼俄柏面对麻烦一样，她最小的女儿坐在她的腿上，随着音乐轻轻地上下拍打着孩子的手。尽管弗雷德对罗西普遍持怀疑态度，但他还是完全忠诚地听着她的音乐，希望他能在长笛上做同样的事情。这是利德盖特来到米德尔马契以来见过的最愉快的家庭聚会。文西一家乐于享受，拒绝一切焦虑，相信生活是幸福的，这使得当时的大多数县城的房子都显得与众不同，当时福音派对瘟疫感染有一定的怀疑。各省仅存的少数娱乐活动。在文西家，总是有惠斯特牌，而牌桌现在已经准备好了，这让公司里的一些人暗自对音乐感到不耐烦。歌声还没结束，费雷布拉泽先生就进来了——他是一位英俊、胸膛宽广但身材矮小的男人，四十岁左右，黑色的衣服很破旧：明亮的光芒全都体现在他那双敏捷的灰色眼睛里。他的出现就像光线中令人愉快的变化，当小路易莎被摩根小姐领出房间时，他用父亲般的胡言乱语逮捕了她，用一些特殊的词向每个人致意，并且似乎将比所有时间都多的谈话压缩在十分钟内。整个晚上。他声称利德盖特兑现了来看望他的承诺。 “我不能放过你，你知道，因为我有一些甲虫要给你看。我们收藏家对每个新人都感兴趣，直到他看到我们向他展示的一切为止。

But soon he swerved to the whist-table, rubbing his hands and saying, ‘Come now, let us be serious! Mr. Lydgate? not play? Ah! you are too young and light for this kind of thing.’
但很快他就转向惠斯特球桌，搓着双手说道：“来吧，让我们严肃点！”利德盖特先生？不玩？啊!你太年轻了，太轻了，不适合做这种事。”

Lydgate said to himself that the clergyman whose abilities were so painful to Mr. Bulstrode, appeared to have found an agreeable resort in this certainly not erudite household. He could half understand it: the good-humor, the good looks of elder and younger, and the provision for passing the time without any labor of intelligence, might make the house beguiling to people who had no particular use for their odd hours.
利德盖特对自己说，这位牧师的能力让布尔斯特罗德先生感到非常痛苦，但他似乎在这个肯定不博学的家庭中找到了一个舒适的避难所。他能理解一半：幽默感、年长者和年轻者的英俊外表，以及不需要任何智力劳动就能打发时间的设施，可能会让这所房子对那些对闲暇时间没有特别用处的人来说很有吸引力。

Everything looked blooming and joyous except Miss Morgan, who was brown, dull, and resigned, and altogether, as Mrs. Vincy often said, just the sort of person for a governess. Lydgate did not mean to pay many such visits himself. They were a wretched waste of the evenings; and now, when he had talked a little more to Rosamond, he meant to excuse himself and go.
一切看起来都欣欣向荣，除了摩根小姐，她肤色黝黑，性格沉闷，听天由命，总之，正如文西夫人常说的那样，她就是那种适合当家庭教师的人。利德盖特本人并不打算进行多次此类访问。他们浪费了夜晚的时间。现在，当他和罗莎蒙德又聊了一会儿之后，他打算告辞离开。

‘You will not like us at Middlemarch, I feel sure,’ she said, when the whist-players were settled. ‘We are very stupid, and you have been used to something quite different.’
“我确信你不会喜欢我们在米德尔马奇的，”当惠斯特球员安顿下来时，她说道。 “我们非常愚蠢，而你已经习惯了完全不同的东西。”

‘I suppose all country towns are pretty much alike,’ said Lydgate. ‘But I have noticed that one always believes one’s own town to be more stupid than any other. I have made up my mind to take Middlemarch as it comes, and shall be much obliged if the town will take me in the same way. I have certainly found some charms in it which are much greater than I had expected.’
“我想所有的乡村小镇都非常相似，”利德盖特说。 “但我注意到，人们总是认为自己的城镇比其他城镇更愚蠢。我已决定接受米德尔马奇，如果该镇也以同样的方式接受我，我将不胜感激。我确实发现了其中的一些魅力，比我预想的要大得多。

‘You mean the rides towards Tipton and Lowick; every one is pleased with those,’ said Rosamond, with simplicity.
“你指的是前往蒂普顿和洛威克的旅程；每个人都对这些感到满意，”罗莎蒙德简单地说。

‘No, I mean something much nearer to me.’
“不，我指的是离我更近的东西。”

Rosamond rose and reached her netting, and then said, ‘Do you care about dancing at all? I am not quite sure whether clever men ever dance.’
罗莎蒙德站起来，伸手够到她的网，然后说：“你真的关心跳舞吗？”我不太确定聪明人是否会跳舞。

‘I would dance with you if you would allow me.’
“如果你允许的话，我会和你跳舞。”

‘Oh!’ said Rosamond, with a slight deprecatory laugh. ‘I was only going to say that we sometimes have dancing, and I wanted to know whether you would feel insulted if you were asked to come.’
“哦！”罗莎蒙德说，带着一丝轻蔑的笑声。 “我只是想说我们有时会跳舞，我想知道如果你被邀请来，你是否会感到受到侮辱。”

‘Not on the condition I mentioned.’
“不是我提到的条件。”

After this chat Lydgate thought that he was going, but on moving towards the whist-tables, he got interested in watching Mr. Farebrother’s play, which was masterly, and also his face, which was a striking mixture of the shrewd and the mild. At ten o’clock supper was brought in (such were the customs of Middlemarch) and there was punch-drinking; but Mr. Farebrother had only a glass of water. He was winning, but there seemed to be no reason why the renewal of rubbers should end, and Lydgate at last took his leave.
这次谈话之后，利德盖特以为他要走了，但在走向惠斯特牌桌时，他对观看费尔布拉泽先生的演奏产生了兴趣，他的演奏非常精湛，还有他的脸，精明与温和的惊人混合体。十点钟，晚饭送了进来（这是米德尔马契的习俗），大家喝潘趣酒。但费雷布拉泽先生只有一杯水。他正在获胜，但似乎没有理由结束橡胶的更新，利德盖特最终离开了。

But as it was not eleven o’clock, he chose to walk in the brisk air towards the tower of St. Botolph’s, Mr. Farebrother’s church, which stood out dark, square, and massive against the starlight. It was the oldest church in Middlemarch; the living, however, was but a vicarage worth barely four hundred a-year. Lydgate had heard that, and he wondered now whether Mr. Farebrother cared about the money he won at cards; thinking, ‘He seems a very pleasant fellow, but Bulstrode may have his good reasons.’ Many things would be easier to Lydgate if it should turn out that Mr. Bulstrode was generally justifiable. ‘What is his religious doctrine to me, if he carries some good notions along with it? One must use such brains as are to be found.’
但由于时间还不到十一点，他选择在清爽的空气中走向圣博托尔夫教堂的塔楼，费雷布拉泽先生的教堂，在星光的映衬下，这座教堂显得漆黑、方形、巨大。这是米德尔马契最古老的教堂。然而，活着的只是一处牧师住宅，每年的价值只有四百美元。利德盖特听说了这件事，现在他想知道费勒布拉泽先生是否关心他打牌赢的钱；他知道费尔布拉泽先生是否关心他打牌赢的钱；他想，“他看起来是个很令人愉快的人，但布尔斯特罗德可能有他充分的理由。”如果事实证明布尔斯特罗德先生总体上是合理的，那么许多事情对利德盖特来说就会容易一些。 “如果他带有一些好的观念，那么他的宗教教义对我来说又是什么？”人们必须使用可以找到的大脑。

These were actually Lydgate’s first meditations as he walked away from Mr. Vincy’s, and on this ground I fear that many ladies will consider him hardly worthy of their attention. He thought of Rosamond and her music only in the second place; and though, when her turn came, he dwelt on the image of her for the rest of his walk, he felt no agitation, and had no sense that any new current had set into his life. He could not marry yet; he wished not to marry for several years; and therefore he was not ready to entertain the notion of being in love with a girl whom he happened to admire. He did admire Rosamond exceedingly; but that madness which had once beset him about Laure was not, he thought, likely to recur in relation to any other woman Certainly, if falling in love had been at all in question, it would have been quite safe with a creature like this Miss Vincy, who had just the kind of intelligence one would desire in a woman— polished, refined, docile, lending itself to finish in all the delicacies of life, and enshrined in a body which expressed this with a force of demonstration that excluded the need for other evidence. Lydgate felt sure that if ever he married, his wife would have that feminine radiance, that distinctive womanhood which must be classed with flowers and music, that sort of beauty which by its very nature was virtuous, being moulded only for pure and delicate joys.
这些实际上是利德盖特离开文西先生时的第一个沉思，基于此，我担心许多女士会认为他不值得她们关注。他只把罗莎蒙德和她的音乐放在第二位。尽管轮到她的时候，他在余下的步行过程中一直在想着她的形象，但他并没有感到不安，也没有感觉到任何新的潮流已经进入他的生活。他还不能结婚；他不想结婚好几年；因此，他还没有准备好爱上一个他碰巧欣赏的女孩。他确实非常钦佩罗莎蒙德。但他认为，那种曾经困扰过他的关于劳尔的疯狂，在与任何其他女人的关系中，不可能再次发生。当然，如果坠入爱河真的有问题的话，那么和像这位小姐这样的人在一起是很安全的。文西，她拥有人们所渴望的女人的智慧——优雅、优雅、温顺，适合完成生活中的所有美味佳肴，并被尊奉在一个身体里，它以一种排除需要的示范力量表达了这一点。以获得其他证据。利德盖特确信，如果他结婚了，他的妻子就会拥有那种女性的光芒，那种与鲜花和音乐相媲美的独特女性气质，那种本质上是善良的美，只为纯粹而微妙的快乐而塑造。

But since he did not mean to marry for the next five years— his more pressing business was to look into Louis’ new book on Fever, which he was specially interested in, because he had known Louis in Paris, and had followed many anatomical demonstrations in order to ascertain the specific differences of typhus and typhoid. He went home and read far into the smallest hour, bringing a much more testing vision of details and relations into this pathological study than he had ever thought it necessary to apply to the complexities of love and marriage, these being subjects on which he felt himself amply informed by literature, and that traditional wisdom which is handed down in the genial conversation of men. Whereas Fever had obscure conditions, and gave him that delightful labor of the imagination which is not mere arbitrariness, but the exercise of disciplined power—combining and constructing with the clearest eye for probabilities and the fullest obedience to knowledge; and then, in yet more energetic alliance with impartial Nature, standing aloof to invent tests by which to try its own work.
但由于他无意在接下来的五年内结婚——他更紧迫的任务是研究路易斯关于发烧的新书，他对此特别感兴趣，因为他在巴黎认识路易斯，并且看过许多解剖学演示以确定斑疹伤寒和伤寒的具体区别。他回到家，一直读到最后一刻，将细节和关系的考验性视野带入了这项病理学研究中，这比他以前认为有必要应用于爱情和婚姻的复杂性，这些是他认为自己的主题丰富的文学知识和在人们亲切的谈话中流传下来的传统智慧。然而，发烧的情况并不明朗，却给了他令人愉快的想象力劳动，这不仅仅是任意性，而是纪律性力量的运用——以最清晰的概率眼光和最充分的服从知识来组合和构建；然后，与公正的大自然更加积极地结盟，超然地发明测试来尝试自己的工作。

Many men have been praised as vividly imaginative on the strength of their profuseness in indifferent drawing or cheap narration:— reports of very poor talk going on in distant orbs; or portraits of Lucifer coming down on his bad errands as a large ugly man with bat’s wings and spurts of phosphorescence; or exaggerations of wantonness that seem to reflect life in a diseased dream. But these kinds of inspiration Lydgate regarded as rather vulgar and vinous compared with the imagination that reveals subtle actions inaccessible by any sort of lens, but tracked in that outer darkness through long pathways of necessary sequence by the inward light which is the last refinement of Energy, capable of bathing even the ethereal atoms in its ideally illuminated space. He for his part had tossed away all cheap inventions where ignorance finds itself able and at ease: he was enamoured of that arduous invention which is the very eye of research, provisionally framing its object and correcting it to more and more exactness of relation; he wanted to pierce the obscurity of those minute processes which prepare human misery and joy, those invisible thoroughfares which are the first lurking-places of anguish, mania, and crime, that delicate poise and transition which determine the growth of happy or unhappy consciousness.
许多人因其丰富的冷漠绘画或廉价叙述而被称赞为富有生动的想象力：——有报道称，在遥远的星球上正在进行非常糟糕的谈话；或者是路西法（Lucifer）执行糟糕任务时的肖像，他是一个长着蝙蝠翅膀、散发着磷光的高大丑陋的男人；或者夸张的放荡，似乎反映了病态梦境中的生活。但利德盖特认为，与想象力相比，这些灵感相当粗俗和恶毒，想象力揭示了任何类型的镜头都无法达到的微妙动作，而是通过内在的光通过必要序列的长路径追踪，这是能量的最后精炼。 ，甚至能够将空灵的原子沐浴在其理想照明的空间中。就他而言，他抛弃了所有无知发现自己能够轻松自在的廉价发明：他迷恋于这项艰巨的发明，它是研究的眼睛，临时框架其对象并将其纠正为越来越精确的关系；他想要揭开那些为人类带来痛苦和欢乐的微小过程的晦涩之处，那些看不见的大道，它们是痛苦、躁狂和犯罪最初潜伏的地方，那些微妙的平衡和转变决定着快乐或不快乐的意识的成长。

As he threw down his book, stretched his legs towards the embers in the grate, and clasped his hands at the back of his head, in that agreeable afterglow of excitement when thought lapses from examination of a specific object into a suffusive sense of its connections with all the rest of our existence—seems, as it were, to throw itself on its back after vigorous swimming and float with the repose of unexhausted strength—Lydgate felt a triumphant delight in his studies, and something like pity for those less lucky men who were not of his profession.
当他扔下书本，把腿伸向壁炉里的余烬，双手紧握在脑后时，当思想从对某个特定物体的审视转向对它的联系的充分感知时，他会感到兴奋的余辉。利德盖特在他的研究中感到一种胜利的喜悦，以及对那些不幸的人的某种怜悯那些不属于他的职业的人。

‘If I had not taken that turn when I was a lad,’ he thought, ‘I might have got into some stupid draught-horse work or other, and lived always in blinkers. I should never have been happy in any profession that did not call forth the highest intellectual strain, and yet keep me in good warm contact with my neighbors. There is nothing like the medical profession for that: one can have the exclusive scientific life that touches the distance and befriend the old fogies in the parish too. It is rather harder for a clergyman: Farebrother seems to be an anomaly.’
“如果我小时候没有采取这种转变，”他想，“我可能会从事一些愚蠢的拉马工作或其他工作，并且总是生活在眼罩中。如果任何职业不要求最高的智力压力，同时又能使我与邻居保持良好的热情联系，那么我永远不会对任何职业感到高兴。没有什么比医学职业更能做到这一点了：人们可以享受独一无二的遥不可及的科学生活，也可以与教区的老顽固成为朋友。对于牧师来说，这要困难得多：费雷布拉泽似乎是个异类。

This last thought brought back the Vincys and all the pictures of the evening. They floated in his mind agreeably enough, and as he took up his bed-candle his lips were curled with that incipient smile which is apt to accompany agreeable recollections. He was an ardent fellow, but at present his ardor was absorbed in love of his work and in the ambition of making his life recognized as a factor in the better life of mankind—like other heroes of science who had nothing but an obscure country practice to begin with.
这最后的念头让我想起了文西夫妇和当晚的所有照片。它们足够愉快地浮现在他的脑海里，当他拿起床头蜡烛时，他的嘴唇上扬着最初的微笑，这种微笑很容易伴随着愉快的回忆。他是一个热心的人，但目前他的热情全神贯注于对他的工作的热爱，以及让他的生活被认为是人类美好生活的一个因素的野心——就像其他科学英雄一样，他们除了默默无闻的乡村实践之外一无所有。首先。

Poor Lydgate! or shall I say, Poor Rosamond! Each lived in a world of which the other knew nothing. It had not occurred to Lydgate that he had been a subject of eager meditation to Rosamond, who had neither any reason for throwing her marriage into distant perspective, nor any pathological studies to divert her mind from that ruminating habit, that inward repetition of looks, words, and phrases, which makes a large part in the lives of most girls. He had not meant to look at her or speak to her with more than the inevitable amount of admiration and compliment which a man must give to a beautiful girl; indeed, it seemed to him that his enjoyment of her music had remained almost silent, for he feared falling into the rudeness of telling her his great surprise at her possession of such accomplishment. But Rosamond had registered every look and word, and estimated them as the opening incidents of a preconceived romance—incidents which gather value from the foreseen development and climax. In Rosamond’s romance it was not necessary to imagine much about the inward life of the hero, or of his serious business in the world: of course, he had a profession and was clever, as well as sufficiently handsome; but the piquant fact about Lydgate was his good birth, which distinguished him from all Middlemarch admirers, and presented marriage as a prospect of rising in rank and getting a little nearer to that celestial condition on earth in which she would have nothing to do with vulgar people, and perhaps at last associate with relatives quite equal to the county people who looked down on the Middlemarchers. It was part of Rosamond’s cleverness to discern very subtly the faintest aroma of rank, and once when she had seen the Miss Brookes accompanying their uncle at the county assizes, and seated among the aristocracy, she had envied them, notwithstanding their plain dress.
可怜的利德盖特！或者我应该说，可怜的罗莎蒙德！每个人都生活在另一个人一无所知的世界里。利德盖特没有想到他一直是罗莎蒙德热切冥想的对象，罗莎蒙德既没有任何理由将她的婚姻抛在遥远的视野中，也没有任何病理学研究来转移她的思想从沉思的习惯，内在重复的目光，单词和短语在大多数女孩的生活中占据很大一部分。他无意看着她或与她说话，而只是带着男人对美丽女孩所必须给予的不可避免的钦佩和恭维；但他并没有打算这样做。事实上，在他看来，他对她音乐的享受几乎保持沉默，因为他担心告诉她他对她拥有如此成就的巨大惊讶而陷入粗鲁。但罗莎蒙德记录了每一个眼神和每一句话，并将它们视为先入为主的浪漫的开始事件——这些事件从可预见的发展和高潮中积累了价值。在罗莎蒙德的浪漫故事中，没有必要过多地想象主人公的内心生活，或者他在世界上的严肃事业：当然，他有职业，很聪明，而且足够英俊；当然，他有自己的职业，很聪明，而且也足够英俊；他是一个有才华的人。但关于利德盖特的一个有趣的事实是，他出身高贵，这使他与所有米德尔马契的崇拜者区分开来，并将婚姻视为一种晋升的前景，并更接近地球上的天堂状态，在这种状态下，她将与粗俗无关。人，也许最终会与那些瞧不起米德尔马彻的县里人相当的亲戚交往。 罗莎蒙德很聪明，能够非常微妙地辨别出最微弱的等级气息，有一次，当她看到布鲁克斯小姐陪着他们的叔叔去县巡回法院，坐在贵族之中时，她很羡慕他们，尽管他们穿着朴素。

If you think it incredible that to imagine Lydgate as a man of family could cause thrills of satisfaction which had anything to do with the sense that she was in love with him, I will ask you to use your power of comparison a little more effectively, and consider whether red cloth and epaulets have never had an influence of that sort. Our passions do not live apart in locked chambers, but, dressed in their small wardrobe of notions, bring their provisions to a common table and mess together, feeding out of the common store according to their appetite.
如果你认为将利德盖特想象为一个有家庭的男人会引起满足感的兴奋，这与她爱他的感觉有关，我会要求你更有效地使用你的比较能力，并考虑一下红布和肩章是否从未产生过此类影响。我们的激情并不是单独生活在锁着的房间里，而是穿着他们的小衣柜里的观念，把他们的食物带到一张共同的桌子上，混乱地在一起，根据他们的胃口从共同的商店里取食。

Rosamond, in fact, was entirely occupied not exactly with Tertius Lydgate as he was in himself, but with his relation to her; and it was excusable in a girl who was accustomed to hear that all young men might, could, would be, or actually were in love with her, to believe at once that Lydgate could be no exception. His looks and words meant more to her than other men’s, because she cared more for them: she thought of them diligently, and diligently attended to that perfection of appearance, behavior, sentiments, and all other elegancies, which would find in Lydgate a more adequate admirer than she had yet been conscious of.
事实上，罗莎蒙德完全不关心特蒂乌斯·利德盖特本人，而是关心他与她的关系。对于一个习惯于听到所有年轻人都可能、能够、将会或实际上爱上她的女孩来说，立即相信利德盖特也不例外，这是情有可原的。他的外表和言语对她来说比其他男人更重要，因为她更关心他们：她勤奋地思考他们，勤奋地追求外表、行为、情感和所有其他优雅的完美，这在利德盖特身上会发现更多她的崇拜者比她想象的还要多。

For Rosamond, though she would never do anything that was disagreeable to her, was industrious; and now more than ever she was active in sketching her landscapes and market-carts and portraits of friends, in practising her music, and in being from morning till night her own standard of a perfect lady, having always an audience in her own consciousness, with sometimes the not unwelcome addition of a more variable external audience in the numerous visitors of the house. She found time also to read the best novels, and even the second best, and she knew much poetry by heart. Her favorite poem was ‘Lalla Rookh.’
对于罗莎蒙德来说，虽然她永远不会做任何令她不愉快的事情，但她很勤奋。现在，她比以往任何时候都更积极地素描风景、市场推车和朋友的肖像，练习音乐，从早到晚成为她自己的完美女士标准，在她自己的意识中始终拥有观众，有时，在众多参观者中加入更多不同的外部观众也并非不受欢迎。她还抽出时间阅读最好的小说，甚至是第二好的小说，她还背诵了很多诗歌。她最喜欢的诗是《Lalla Rookh》。

‘The best girl in the world! He will be a happy fellow who gets her!’ was the sentiment of the elderly gentlemen who visited the Vincys; and the rejected young men thought of trying again, as is the fashion in country towns where the horizon is not thick with coming rivals. But Mrs. Plymdale thought that Rosamond had been educated to a ridiculous pitch, for what was the use of accomplishments which would be all laid aside as soon as she was married? While her aunt Bulstrode, who had a sisterly faithfulness towards her brother’s family, had two sincere wishes for Rosamond—that she might show a more serious turn of mind, and that she might meet with a husband whose wealth corresponded to her habits.
‘世界上最好的女孩！得到她的他会是一个幸福的人！”这是访问文西一家的年长绅士的感想。被拒绝的年轻人想再试一次，这在乡村小镇很流行，因为那里的地平线不会充满即将到来的竞争对手。但普利姆代尔夫人认为罗莎蒙德所受的教育已经到了荒谬的地步，结婚后就将所有的成就都抛在一边，那又有什么用呢？而她的姨妈布尔斯特罗德对她哥哥的家庭有着姐妹般的忠诚，她对罗莎蒙德有两个真诚的愿望——希望她能表现出更严肃的态度，希望她能遇到一个财富与她的习惯相符的丈夫。

CHAPTER XVII
第十七章

‘The clerkly person smiled and said
‘店员微笑着说道

Promise was a pretty maid,
诺言是个漂亮的女仆，

But being poor she died unwed.’
但由于贫穷，她未婚就去世了。”

The Rev. Camden Farebrother, whom Lydgate went to see the next evening, lived in an old parsonage, built of stone, venerable enough to match the church which it looked out upon. All the furniture too in the house was old, but with another grade of age—that of Mr. Farebrother’s father and grandfather. There were painted white chairs, with gilding and wreaths on them, and some lingering red silk damask with slits in it. There were engraved portraits of Lord Chancellors and other celebrated lawyers of the last century; and there were old pier-glasses to reflect them, as well as the little satin-wood tables and the sofas resembling a prolongation of uneasy chairs, all standing in relief against the dark wainscot This was the physiognomy of the drawing-room into which Lydgate was shown; and there were three ladies to receive him, who were also old-fashioned, and of a faded but genuine respectability: Mrs. Farebrother, the Vicar’s white-haired mother, befrilled and kerchiefed with dainty cleanliness, up right, quick-eyed, and still under seventy; Miss Noble, her sister, a tiny old lady of meeker aspect, with frills and kerchief decidedly more worn and mended; and Miss Winifred Farebrother, the Vicar’s elder sister, well-looking like himself, but nipped and subdued as single women are apt to be who spend their lives in uninterrupted subjection to their elders. Lydgate had not expected to see so quaint a group: knowing simply that Mr. Farebrother was a bachelor, he had thought of being ushered into a snuggery where the chief furniture would probably be books and collections of natural objects. The Vicar himself seemed to wear rather a changed aspect, as most men do when acquaintances made elsewhere see them for the first time in their own homes; some indeed showing like an actor of genial parts disadvantageously cast for the curmudgeon in a new piece. This was not the case with Mr. Farebrother: he seemed a trifle milder and more silent, the chief talker being his mother, while he only put in a good-humored moderating remark here and there. The old lady was evidently accustomed to tell her company what they ought to think, and to regard no subject as quite safe without her steering. She was afforded leisure for this function by having all her little wants attended to by Miss Winifred. Meanwhile tiny Miss Noble carried on her arm a small basket, into which she diverted a bit of sugar, which she had first dropped in her saucer as if by mistake; looking round furtively afterwards, and reverting to her teacup with a small innocent noise as of a tiny timid quadruped. Pray think no ill of Miss Noble. That basket held small savings from her more portable food, destined for the children of her poor friends among whom she trotted on fine mornings; fostering and petting all needy creatures being so spontaneous a delight to her, that she regarded it much as if it had been a pleasant vice that she was addicted to. Perhaps she was conscious of being tempted to steal from those who had much that she might give to those who had nothing, and carried in her conscience the guilt of that repressed desire. One must be poor to know the luxury of giving!
第二天晚上，利德盖特去拜访卡姆登·法雷布拉泽牧师，他住在一栋古老的牧师住宅里，这座牧师住宅是用石头建造的，其庄严程度足以与它所眺望的教堂相媲美。房子里的所有家具也都很旧，但年代却与费雷布拉泽先生的父亲和祖父的年代不同。那里有几把漆成白色的椅子，上面镀金，上面还挂着花环，还有一些挂着开缝的红色丝绸锦缎。上面雕刻着上世纪大法官和其他著名律师的肖像；旧的穿衣镜映照着它们，小缎木桌子和沙发就像安乐椅的延长部分，所有这些都在深色壁板的映衬下显得很浮雕。这就是利德盖特进入的客厅的面貌。被展示；接待他的是三位女士，她们也是老式的，虽然已经褪色，但确实很受人尊敬：法尔布拉泽夫人，牧师的白发母亲，戴着褶边，戴着头巾，干净整洁，坐姿端正，目光敏锐，还不到七十岁；诺布尔小姐，她的妹妹，是一位外表温顺的小老太太，身上的褶边和头巾显然更加破旧和修补过。还有牧师的姐姐温妮弗莱德·法雷布拉泽小姐，她长得和他一样漂亮，但是却像单身女性那样，终生都在不间断地服从长辈。利德盖特没想到会看到如此古怪的一群人：他只知道费雷布拉泽先生是个单身汉，就想到要被带进一个舒适的房间，里面的主要家具可能是书籍和自然物品收藏。 牧师本人的面貌似乎发生了很大的变化，就像大多数人在其他地方认识的人第一次在自己家里看到他们时所做的那样；有些人确实表现得像一个性格温和的演员，但在新作品中却被选为脾气暴躁的人。费勒布拉泽先生的情况则不然：他看上去稍微温和一些，沉默寡言一些，主要说话的是他的母亲，而他只是时不时地发表一些幽默的缓和言论。老太太显然习惯于告诉她的同伴他们应该怎么想，并且认为没有她的指导，任何话题都是不安全的。温妮弗雷德小姐满足了她所有的小愿望，为这次活动提供了闲暇时间。与此同时，娇小的诺布尔小姐手臂上挎着一个小篮子，她把一点糖放进了篮子里，她一开始好像不小心把糖掉到了碟子里。随后，她偷偷地环顾四周，然后又回到茶杯旁，发出一种天真无邪的声音，就像一只胆怯的四足动物那样。请不要对诺布尔小姐抱有任何恶意。那个篮子里装着她从更方便携带的食物中节省下来的小钱，这些食物是注定要送给她可怜的朋友的孩子们的，她在晴朗的早晨在他们中间小跑。抚养和抚摸所有需要帮助的生物对她来说是如此自发的乐趣，以至于她认为这就像她沉迷于一种令人愉快的恶习一样。也许她意识到自己很想从那些拥有很多东西的人那里偷东西，而她可以把这些东西送给那些一无所有的人，并且她的良心对这种压抑的欲望感到内疚。一个人一定很穷才知道给予的奢侈！

Mrs. Farebrother welcomed the guest with a lively formality and precision. She presently informed him that they were not often in want of medical aid in that house. She had brought up her children to wear flannel and not to over-eat themselves, which last habit she considered the chief reason why people needed doctors. Lydgate pleaded for those whose fathers and mothers had over-eaten themselves, but Mrs. Farebrother held that view of things dangerous: Nature was more just than that; it would be easy for any felon to say that his ancestors ought to have been hanged instead of him. If those he had bad fathers and mothers were bad themselves, they were hanged for that. There was no need to go back on what you couldn’t see.
法尔布拉泽夫人以活泼、正式、严谨的方式欢迎了客人。她很快告诉他，他们在那所房子里并不经常需要医疗救助。她教导孩子们穿法兰绒衣服，不要让自己吃得过多，她认为这最后一个习惯是人们需要医生的主要原因。利德盖特为那些父母吃得过多的人辩护，但费勒布拉泽夫人对危险的事物持这种观点：大自然比这更公正；它是危险的。对于任何一个重罪犯来说，很容易说应该绞死他的祖先而不是他。如果他的父母不好，他们自己也不好，他们就会因此被绞死。没有必要因为看不到的事情而回头。

‘My mother is like old George the Third,’ said the Vicar, ‘she objects to metaphysics.’
“我母亲就像老乔治三世一样，”牧师说，“她反对形而上学。”

‘I object to what is wrong, Camden. I say, keep hold of a few plain truths, and make everything square with them. When I was young, Mr. Lydgate, there never was any question about right and wrong. We knew our catechism, and that was enough; we learned our creed and our duty. Every respectable Church person had the same opinions. But now, if you speak out of the Prayer-book itself, you are liable to be contradicted.’
“我反对这种错误的做法，卡姆登。我说，抓住一些简单的真理，让一切都与它们相符。利德盖特先生，当我年轻的时候，从来没有任何关于是非的问题。我们知道我们的教义问答，这就足够了；我们学会了我们的信条和我们的责任。每一位可敬的教会人士都有同样的看法。但现在，如果你用祈祷书本身来说话，你很可能会遭到反驳。

‘That makes rather a pleasant time of it for those who like to maintain their own point,’ said Lydgate.
利德盖特说：“对于那些喜欢坚持自己观点的人来说，这真是一段愉快的时光。”

‘But my mother always gives way,’ said the Vicar, slyly.
“但我母亲总是让步，”牧师狡猾地说。

‘No, no, Camden, you must not lead Mr. Lydgate into a mistake about ME. I shall never show that disrespect to my parents, to give up what they taught me. Any one may see what comes of turning. If you change once, why not twenty times?’
“不，不，卡姆登，你不能让利德盖特先生对我产生错误的认识。我永远不会对我的父母表现出不尊重，放弃他们教给我的东西。任何人都可以看到转变会带来什么后果。如果你改变一次，为什么不改变二十次呢？

‘A man might see good arguments for changing once, and not see them for changing again,’ said Lydgate, amused with the decisive old lady.
“一个人可能会看到一次改变的好理由，但不会再看到再次改变的理由，”利德盖特说，被这位果断的老太太逗乐了。

‘Excuse me there. If you go upon arguments, they are never wanting, when a man has no constancy of mind. My father never changed, and he preached plain moral sermons without arguments, and was a good man— few better. When you get me a good man made out of arguments, I will get you a good dinner with reading you the cookery-book. That’s my opinion, and I think anybody’s stomach will bear me out.’
‘对不起。如果你继续争论，当一个人没有坚定的意志时，他们永远不会想要。我的父亲从未改变，他毫无争议地进行朴素的道德说教，是一个好人——没有比这更好的了。当你通过争论为我找到一个好人时，我会给你一顿丰盛的晚餐，并给你读烹饪书。这是我的观点，我想任何人的胃都会支持我的观点。

‘About the dinner certainly, mother,’ said Mr. Farebrother.
“当然是关于晚餐，妈妈，”费雷布拉泽先生说。

‘It is the same thing, the dinner or the man. I am nearly seventy, Mr. Lydgate, and I go upon experience. I am not likely to follow new lights, though there are plenty of them here as elsewhere. I say, they came in with the mixed stuffs that will neither wash nor wear. It was not so in my youth: a Churchman was a Churchman, and a clergyman, you might be pretty sure, was a gentleman, if nothing else. But now he may be no better than a Dissenter, and want to push aside my son on pretence of doctrine. But whoever may wish to push him aside, I am proud to say, Mr. Lydgate, that he will compare with any preacher in this kingdom, not to speak of this town, which is but a low standard to go by; at least, to my thinking, for I was born and bred at Exeter.’
“无论是晚餐还是男人，都是一样的。利德盖特先生，我已经快七十岁了，我凭的是经验。我不太可能追随新的灯光，尽管这里和其他地方一样有很多新的灯光。我说，他们进来的时候都是混合的东西，既不能洗，也不能穿。在我年轻的时候，情况并非如此：教士就是教士，而牧师，你可能很确定，至少是一位绅士。但现在他可能不比异见者好多少，想以教义为幌子把我儿子推到一边。但无论谁想把他推到一边，利德盖特先生，我很自豪地说，他会与这个王国的任何传教士进行比较，更不用说这个城镇了，这只是一个低标准的地方；至少，在我看来，因为我是在埃克塞特出生和长大的。

‘A mother is never partial,’ said Mr. Farebrother, smiling. ‘What do you think Tyke’s mother says about him?’
“母亲永远不会偏心，”费雷布拉泽先生微笑着说道。 “你认为泰克的母亲对他有何评价？”

‘Ah, poor creature! what indeed?’ said Mrs. Farebrother, her sharpness blunted for the moment by her confidence in maternal judgments. ‘She says the truth to herself, depend upon it.’
‘啊，可怜的生物！ “到底是什么？”法尔布拉泽太太说道，她对母亲的判断充满信心，暂时削弱了她的敏锐性。 “她对自己说的是实话，相信它。”

‘And what is the truth?’ said-Lydgate. ‘I am curious to know.’
“真相是什么？”利德盖特问道。 “我很想知道。”

‘Oh, nothing bad at all,’ said Mr. Farebrother. ‘He is a zealous fellow: not very learned, and not very wise, I think— because I don’t agree with him.’
“噢，没什么不好的，”费雷布拉泽先生说。 “他是一个热心的人：我认为他不是很有学问，也不是很聪明——因为我不同意他的观点。”

‘Why, Camden!’ said Miss Winifred, ‘Griffin and his wife told me only to-day, that Mr. Tyke said they should have no more coals if they came to hear you preach.’
“哎呀，卡姆登！”威妮弗雷德小姐说，“格里芬和他的妻子今天才告诉我，泰克先生说，如果他们来听你讲道，就不应该再有煤炭了。”

Mrs. Farebrother laid down her knitting, which she had resumed after her small allowance of tea and toast, and looked at her son as if to say ‘You hear that?’ Miss Noble said, ‘Oh poor things! poor things!’ in reference, probably, to the double loss of preaching and coal. But the Vicar answered quietly—
费勒布拉泽太太放下她的编织活儿，她在喝完少量的茶和烤面包后又重新开始编织，看着她的儿子，仿佛在说：“你听到了吗？”诺布尔小姐说：“哦，可怜的东西！”可怜的东西！”可能指的是布道和煤炭的双重损失。但牧师平静地回答道——

‘That is because they are not my parishioners. And I don’t think my sermons are worth a load of coals to them.’
“那是因为他们不是我的教区居民。我不认为我的布道对他们来说不值一提。

‘Mr. Lydgate,’ said Mrs. Farebrother, who could not let this pass, ‘you don’t know my son: he always undervalues himself. I tell him he is undervaluing the God who made him, and made him a most excellent preacher.’
'先生。利德盖特，”法尔布拉泽夫人无法放过这件事，说道，“你不了解我的儿子：他总是低估自己。我告诉他，他低估了创造他、使他成为最优秀传道人的上帝。

‘That must be a hint for me to take Mr. Lydgate away to my study, mother,’ said the Vicar, laughing. ‘I promised to show you my collection,’ he added, turning to Lydgate; ‘shall we go?’
“这一定是在暗示我要带利德盖特先生去我的书房，妈妈，”牧师笑着说。 “我答应过要向你展示我的收藏，”他转向利德盖特补充道。 “我们走吧？”

All three ladies remonstrated. Mr. Lydgate ought not to be hurried away without being allowed to accept another cup of tea: Miss Winifred had abundance of good tea in the pot. Why was Camden in such haste to take a visitor to his den? There was nothing but pickled vermin, and drawers full of blue-bottles and moths, with no carpet on the floor. Mr. Lydgate must excuse it. A game at cribbage would be far better. In short, it was plain that a vicar might be adored by his womankind as the king of men and preachers, and yet be held by them to stand in much need of their direction. Lydgate, with the usual shallowness of a young bachelor. wondered that Mr. Farebrother had not taught them better.
三位女士纷纷抗议。利德盖特先生不应该在不被允许接受另一杯茶的情况下匆忙离开：温妮弗雷德小姐的壶里有很多好茶。为什么卡姆登这么急着带客人去他的巢穴？除了腌制的害虫和装满蓝瓶飞蛾的抽屉外，什么也没有，地板上没有地毯。利德盖特先生必须原谅。玩纸牌游戏会好得多。简而言之，很明显，牧师可能会被女性崇拜为男人和传教士之王，但又被她们认为非常需要她们的指导。利德盖特有着年轻单身汉一贯的浅薄态度。我很奇怪费雷布拉泽先生没有教得更好。

‘My mother is not used to my having visitors who can take any interest in my hobbies,’ said the Vicar, as he opened the door of his study, which was indeed as bare of luxuries for the body as the ladies had implied, unless a short porcelain pipe and a tobacco-box were to be excepted.
“我的母亲不习惯有访客，他们会对我的爱好感兴趣，”牧师一边说，一边打开书房的门，书房确实像女士们暗示的那样，对身体来说没有什么奢侈的东西，除非短瓷烟斗和烟草盒除外。

‘Men of your profession don’t generally smoke,’ he said. Lydgate smiled and shook his head. ‘Nor of mine either, properly, I suppose. You will hear that pipe alleged against me by Bulstrode and Company. They don’t know how pleased the devil would be if I gave it up.’
“你们这个行业的男人一般不抽烟，”他说。利德盖特微笑着摇了摇头。 “我想，也不是我的。”你会听到布尔斯特罗德公司对我指控的那根烟斗。他们不知道如果我放弃了，魔鬼会有多高兴。

‘I understand. You are of an excitable temper and want a sedative. I am heavier, and should get idle with it. I should rush into idleness, and stagnate there with all my might.’
'我明白。你脾气暴躁，需要镇静剂。我比较重，应该闲着。我应该立即进入懒惰状态，并竭尽全力地停滞在那里。

‘And you mean to give it all to your work. I am some ten or twelve years older than you, and have come to a compromise. I feed a weakness or two lest they should get clamorous. See,’ continued the Vicar, opening several small drawers, ‘I fancy I have made an exhaustive study of the entomology of this district. I am going on both with the fauna and flora; but I have at least done my insects well. We are singularly rich in orthoptera: I don’t know whether—Ah! you have got hold of that glass jar— you are looking into that instead of my drawers. You don’t really care about these things?’
‘而你的意思是把一切都奉献给你的工作。我比你大十、十二岁，已经做出了妥协。我会弥补一两个弱点，以免他们吵闹。你看，”牧师继续说道，打开了几个小抽屉，“我想我已经对这个地区的昆虫学进行了详尽的研究。我正在研究动物和植物。但至少我的昆虫做得很好。我们的直翅目异常丰富：我不知道是否——啊！你拿着那个玻璃罐子——你正在看那个玻璃罐子，而不是我的抽屉。你真的不关心这些事情吗？

‘Not by the side of this lovely anencephalous monster. I have never had time to give myself much to natural history. I was early bitten with an interest in structure, and it is what lies most directly in my profession. I have no hobby besides. I have the sea to swim in there.’
‘不是在这个可爱的无脑怪物身边。我从来没有时间投入太多精力去研究博物学。我很早就对结构产生了兴趣，这也是我职业中最直接的内容。除此之外我没有什么爱好。我在那里有大海可以游泳。

‘Ah! you are a happy fellow,’ said Mr. Farebrother, turning on his heel and beginning to fill his pipe. ‘You don’t know what it is to want spiritual tobacco—bad emendations of old texts, or small items about a variety of Aphis Brassicae, with the well-known signature of Philomicron, for the ‘Twaddler’s Magazine;’ or a learned treatise on the entomology of the Pentateuch, including all the insects not mentioned, but probably met with by the Israelites in their passage through the desert; with a monograph on the Ant, as treated by Solomon, showing the harmony of the Book of Proverbs with the results of modern research. You don’t mind my fumigating you?’
'啊！ “你是个快乐的人。”费雷布拉泽先生说着，转身开始往烟斗里倒水。 “你不知道什么是想要精神烟草——对旧文本的糟糕修改，或者关于各种芸苔蚜的小文章，带有著名的 Philomicron 签名，为‘Twaddler’s Magazine’ 或一篇博学的论文关于《摩西五经》的昆虫学，包括所有未提及但可能是以色列人在穿越沙漠时遇到的昆虫；一本关于所罗门对待蚂蚁的专着，展示了《箴言》与现代研究成果的和谐统一。你不介意我熏你吗？

Lydgate was more surprised at the openness of this talk than at its implied meaning—that the Vicar felt himself not altogether in the right vocation. The neat fitting-up of drawers and shelves, and the bookcase filled with expensive illustrated books on Natural History, made him think again of the winnings at cards and their destination. But he was beginning to wish that the very best construction of everything that Mr. Farebrother did should be the true one. The Vicar’s frankness seemed not of the repulsive sort Chat comes from an uneasy consciousness seeking to forestall the judgment of others, but simply the relief of a desire to do with as little pretence as possible. Apparently he was not without a sense that his freedom of speech might seem premature, for he presently said—
利德盖特对这次谈话的坦率感到惊讶，而不是其隐含的含义——牧师觉得自己完全不适合从事正确的职业。抽屉和架子布置得井井有条，书柜里装满了昂贵的自然历史插图书籍，让他再次想起了纸牌赢来的钱以及它们的去向。但他开始希望费雷布拉泽先生所做的一切都是最好的解释。牧师的坦率似乎并不是出于一种令人厌恶的想法，因为他试图阻止他人的判断，而只是出于一种尽可能不做任何伪装的愿望的缓解。显然，他并非没有意识到他的言论自由似乎为时过早，因为他不久就说——

‘I have not yet told you that I have the advantage of you, Mr. Lydgate, and know you better than you know me. You remember Trawley who shared your apartment at Paris for some time? I was a correspondent of his, and he told me a good deal about you. I was not quite sure when you first came that you were the same man. I was very glad when I found that you were. Only I don’t forget that you have not had the like prologue about me.’
“我还没有告诉过你，我比你更有优势，利德盖特先生，而且比你更了解我。”您还记得特劳利（Trawley）曾在巴黎与您合住过一段时间吗？我是他的通讯员，他告诉了我很多关于你的事情。当你第一次来的时候，我不太确定你们是同一个人。当我发现你是这样的时候，我很高兴。只是我没有忘记你没有关于我的类似序言。

Lydgate divined some delicacy of feeling here, but did not half understand it. ‘By the way,’ he said, ‘what has become of Trawley? I have quite lost sight of him. He was hot on the French social systems, and talked of going to the Backwoods to found a sort of Pythagorean community. Is he gone?’
利德盖特察觉到这里有某种微妙的感觉，但又不太明白。 “顺便问一下，”他说，“特劳利怎么样了？我已经完全看不到他了。他热衷于法国的社会制度，并谈到要去边远地区建立一种毕达哥拉斯社区。他走了吗？

‘Not at all. He is practising at a German bath, and has married a rich patient.’
'一点也不。他正在一家德国浴室里练习，并娶了一位富有的病人。

Then my notions wear the best, so far,’ said Lydgate, with a short scornful laugh. ‘He would have it, the medical profession was an inevitable system of humbug. I said, the fault was in the men— men who truckle to lies and folly. Instead of preaching against humbug outside the walls, it might be better to set up a disinfecting apparatus within. In short—I am reporting my own conversation— you may be sure I had all the good sense on my side.’
到目前为止，我的想法是最好的。”利德盖特轻蔑地笑了一声说道。 “他会的，医学界是一个不可避免的骗局。我说，错误在于男人——那些屈服于谎言和愚蠢的男人。与其在墙外宣扬反对骗局，不如在墙内设置消毒装置。简而言之，我正在报道我自己的谈话，你可以确信我是有理智的。

‘Your scheme is a good deal more difficult to carry out than the Pythagorean community, though. You have not only got the old Adam in yourself against you, but you have got all those descendants of the original Adam who form the society around you. You see, I have paid twelve or thirteen years more than you for my knowledge of difficulties. But’—Mr. Farebrother broke off a moment, and then added, ‘you are eying that glass vase again. Do you want to make an exchange? You shall not have it without a fair barter.’
“不过，你的计划比毕达哥拉斯学派更难实施。你不仅让自己身上的老亚当与你作对，而且还让所有那些构成你周围社会的原始亚当的后裔都在反对你。你看，我为了解困难，比你多付出了十二、十三年的时间。但是’——先生。费雷布拉泽停顿了一下，然后补充道：“你又在看那个玻璃花瓶了。”您想进行交换吗？如果没有公平的易货贸易，你就不会拥有它。

‘I have some sea-mice—fine specimens—in spirits. And I will throw in Robert Brown’s new thing—‘Microscopic Observations on the Pollen of Plants’—if you don’t happen to have it already.’
“我有一些海鼠——精美的标本——烈酒。如果你还没有的话，我会加入罗伯特·布朗的新作品——《植物花粉的微观观察》。

‘Why, seeing how you long for the monster, I might ask a higher price. Suppose I ask you to look through my drawers and agree with me about all my new species?’ The Vicar, while he talked in this way, alternately moved about with his pipe in his mouth, and returned to hang rather fondly over his drawers. ‘That would be good discipline, you know, for a young doctor who has to please his patients in Middlemarch. You must learn to be bored, remember. However, you shall have the monster on your own terms.’
‘哎呀，看你对怪物的渴望程度，我可能会开更高的价格。假设我请你翻遍我的抽屉，并同意我关于我所有新物种的看法？’牧师一边这样说话，一边嘴里叼着烟斗走来走去，然后又满怀深情地挂在抽屉上。 “你知道，对于一位必须取悦米德尔马契病人的年轻医生来说，这将是很好的纪律。记住，你必须学会​​感到无聊。然而，你应该按照自己的意愿拥有怪物。

‘Don’t you think men overrate the necessity for humoring everybody’s nonsense, till they get despised by the very fools they humor?’ said Lydgate, moving to Mr. Farebrother’s side, and looking rather absently at the insects ranged in fine gradation, with names subscribed in exquisite writing. ‘The shortest way is to make your value felt, so that people must put up with you whether you flatter them or not.’
“你不认为人们高估了幽默每个人的胡言乱语的必要性，直到他们被他们所幽默的傻瓜所鄙视吗？”利德盖特说，走到费雷布拉泽先生身边，心不在焉地看着那些按精细等级排列的昆虫，名字以精美的字体书写。 “最快捷的方法就是让人们感受到你的价值，这样无论你是否奉承人们，他们都必须忍受你。”

‘With all my heart. But then you must be sure of having the value, and you must keep yourself independent. Very few men can do that. Either you slip out of service altogether, and become good for nothing, or you wear the harness and draw a good deal where your yoke-fellows pull you. But do look at these delicate orthoptera!’
'一心一意。但你必须确保自己具有价值，并且必须保持自己的独立性。很少有男人能做到这一点。要么你完全退出服务，变得一无是处，要么你戴上安全带，在你的同僚们的拉扯下赚到很多钱。但一定要看看这些精致的直翅目昆虫！”

Lydgate had after all to give some scrutiny to each drawer, the Vicar laughing at himself, and yet persisting in the exhibition.
毕竟，利德盖特必须仔细检查每个抽屉，牧师嘲笑自己，但仍坚持展览。

‘Apropos of what you said about wearing harness,’ Lydgate began, after they had sat down, ‘I made up my mind some time ago to do with as little of it as-possible. That was why I determined not to try anything in London, for a good many years at least. I didn’t like what I saw when I was studying there—so much empty bigwiggism, and obstructive trickery. In the country, people have less pretension to knowledge, and are less of companions, but for that reason they affect one’s amour-propre less: one makes less bad blood, and can follow one’s own course more quietly.’
“关于你所说的关于佩戴安全带的事情，”他们坐下后，利德盖特开始说道，“我不久前就决定尽可能少戴安全带。这就是为什么我决定不在伦敦尝试任何事情，至少在很多年里。我不喜欢在那里学习时所看到的一切——那么多空洞的自大主义和阻碍性的诡计。在乡下，人们不那么自命不凡，也不那么有朋友，但因此他们对自尊心的影响也较小：一个人不会产生太多的仇恨，可以更安静地走自己的路。

‘Yes—well—you have got a good start; you are in the right profession, the work you feel yourself most fit for. Some people miss that, and repent too late. But you must not be too sure of keeping your independence.’
“是的——嗯——你已经有了一个好的开始；您从事的是正确的职业，您认为自己最适合的工作。有些人错过了这一点，后悔得太晚了。但你不能太确定要保持自己的独立性。”

‘You mean of family ties?’ said Lydgate, conceiving that these might press rather tightly on Mr. Farebrother.
“你是说家庭关系吗？”利德盖特说道，他认为这些可能会对费尔布拉泽先生造成相当大的压力。

‘Not altogether. Of course they make many things more difficult. But a good wife—a good unworldly woman—may really help a man, and keep him more independent. There’s a parishioner of mine— a fine fellow, but who would hardly have pulled through as he has done without his wife. Do you know the Garths? I think they were not Peacock’s patients.’
'不完全是这样。当然，它们使许多事情变得更加困难。但一个好妻子——一个优秀的、不谙世事的女人——可能真的可以帮助一个男人，让他更加独立。我有一个教区居民，他是个好人，但如果没有他的妻子，他很难渡过难关。你知道加斯人吗？我认为他们不是孔雀的病人。

‘No; but there is a Miss Garth at old Featherstone’s, at Lowick.’
'不;但洛威克的老费瑟斯通家有一位加斯小姐。

‘Their daughter: an excellent girl.’
“他们的女儿：一个优秀的女孩。”

‘She is very quiet—I have hardly noticed her.’
“她很安静——我几乎没有注意到她。”

‘She has taken notice of you, though, depend upon it.’
“不过，她已经注意到你了，这就是事实。”

‘I don’t understand,’ said Lydgate; he could hardly say ‘Of course.’
“我不明白，”利德盖特说。他很难说“当然”。

‘Oh, she gauges everybody. I prepared her for confirmation— she is a favorite of mine.’
“哦，她衡量每个人。我为她的确认做好了准备——她是我的最爱。

Mr. Farebrother puffed a few moments in silence, Lydgate not caring to know more about the Garths. At last the Vicar laid down his pipe, stretched out his legs, and turned his bright eyes with a smile towards Lydgate, saying—
费勒布拉泽先生沉默了一会儿，利德盖特并不想了解更多关于加思夫妇的事情。最后，牧师放下烟斗，伸出双腿，用明亮的眼睛微笑着转向利德盖特，说道——

‘But we Middlemarchers are not so tame as you take us to be. We have our intrigues and our parties. I am a party man, for example, and Bulstrode is another. If you vote for me you will offend Bulstrode.’
“但是我们米德尔马彻并不像你想象的那么温顺。我们有我们的阴谋和我们的派对。例如，我是一个党派人士，而布尔斯特罗德则是另一个。如果你投票给我，你就会冒犯布尔斯特罗德。”

‘What is there against Bulstrode?’ said Lydgate, emphatically.
“布尔斯特罗德有什么可反对的？”利德盖特强调道。

‘I did not say there was anything against him except that. If you vote against him you will make him your enemy.’
“除此之外，我并没有说有什么不利于他的事情。如果你投票反对他，你就会让他成为你的敌人。

‘I don’t know that I need mind about that,’ said Lydgate, rather proudly; ‘but he seems to have good ideas about hospitals, and he spends large sums on useful public objects. He might help me a good deal in carrying out my ideas. As to his religious notions— why, as Voltaire said, incantations will destroy a flock of sheep if administered with a certain quantity of arsenic. I look for the man who will bring the arsenic, and don’t mind about his incantations.’
“我不知道我需要关心这个，”利德盖特相当自豪地说。 “但他似乎对医院有很好的想法，而且他在有用的公共物品上花费了大量资金。他可能会帮助我实现我的想法。至于他的宗教观念——为什么正如伏尔泰所说，如果施以一定量的砒霜，咒语就会消灭一群羊。我寻找那个能带来砒霜的人，并且不介意他的咒语。

‘Very good. But then you must not offend your arsenic-man. You will not offend me, you know,’ said Mr. Farebrother, quite unaffectedly. ‘I don’t translate my own convenience into other people’s duties. I am opposed to Bulstrode in many ways. I don’t like the set he belongs to: they are a narrow ignorant set, and do more to make their neighbors uncomfortable than to make them better. Their system is a sort of worldly-spiritual cliqueism: they really look on the rest of mankind as a doomed carcass which is to nourish them for heaven. But,’ he added, smilingly, ‘I don’t say that Bulstrode’s new hospital is a bad thing; and as to his wanting to oust me from the old one—why, if he thinks me a mischievous fellow, he is only returning a compliment. And I am not a model clergyman— only a decent makeshift.’
'非常好。但你千万不能得罪你的砒霜人。你知道，你不会冒犯我的。”费尔布拉泽先生毫不掩饰地说道。 “我不会将自己的便利转化为他人的职责。我在很多方面反对布尔斯特罗德。我不喜欢他所属的群体：他们是一个狭隘无知的群体，他们所做的更多是让邻居感到不舒服，而不是让他们变得更好。他们的体系是一种世俗精神派系：他们实际上将其他人类视为注定要滋养他们进入天堂的尸体。但是，”他微笑着补充道，“我并不是说布尔斯特罗德的新医院是一件坏事;至于他想把我从老家伙那里赶走——为什么，如果他认为我是一个淘气的家伙，他只是在回敬一句恭维而已。我不是模范牧师——只是一个像样的临时工。

Lydgate was not at all sure that the Vicar maligned himself. A model clergyman, like a model doctor, ought to think his own profession the finest in the world, and take all knowledge as mere nourishment to his moral pathology and therapeutics. He only said, ‘What reason does Bulstrode give for superseding you?’
利德盖特完全不确定牧师是否诽谤自己。一个模范牧师，就像一个模范医生一样，应该认为自己的职业是世界上最好的，并把所有的知识都视为他的道德病理学和治疗学的营养品。他只说：“布尔斯特罗德有何理由取代你？”

‘That I don’t teach his opinions—which he calls spiritual religion; and that I have no time to spare. Both statements are true. But then I could make time, and I should be glad of the forty pounds. That is the plain fact of the case. But let us dismiss it. I only wanted to tell you that if you vote for your arsenic-man, you are not to cut me in consequence. I can’t spare you. You are a sort of circumnavigator come to settle among us, and will keep up my belief in the antipodes. Now tell me all about them in Paris.’
“我不教导他的观点——他称之为精神宗教；而且我没有空闲时间。两种说法都是正确的。不过这样我就可以腾出时间了，我应该为这四十英镑而高兴。这就是案件的明显事实。但让我们忽略它。我只是想告诉你，如果你投票给你的砒霜人，你就不会因此而砍掉我。我不能放过你。你就像一位环球航行者来到我们中间定居，并将保持我对相反地的信念。现在告诉我关于他们在巴黎的一切。”

CHAPTER XVIII
第十八章

‘Oh, sir, the loftiest hopes on earth
“哦，先生，地球上最崇高的希望

Draw lots with meaner hopes: heroic breasts,
带着更卑微的希望抽签：英雄的乳房，

Breathing bad air, ran risk of pestilence;
呼吸不良空气，有感染瘟疫的危险；

Or, lacking lime-juice when they cross the Line,
或者，当他们越界时缺少酸橙汁，

May languish with the scurvy.’
可能会因坏血病而衰弱。

Some weeks passed after this conversation before the question of the chaplaincy gathered any practical import for Lydgate, and without telling himself the reason, he deferred the predetermination on which side he should give his vote. It would really have been a matter of total indifference to him—that is to say, he would have taken the more convenient side, and given his vote for the appointment of Tyke without any hesitation—if he had not cared personally for Mr. Farebrother.
这次谈话过去了几个星期，牧师职位问题才对利德盖特产生了任何实际意义，在没有告诉自己原因的情况下，他推迟了他应该投票给哪一边的预先决定。这对他来说确实是完全漠不关心的问题——也就是说，如果他个人不关心费雷布拉泽先生，他会站在更方便的一边，毫不犹豫地投票支持泰克的任命。 。

But his liking for the Vicar of St. Botolph’s grew with growing acquaintanceship. That, entering into Lydgate’s position as a new-comer who had his own professional objects to secure, Mr. Farebrother should have taken pains rather to warn off than to obtain his interest, showed an unusual delicacy and generosity, which Lydgate’s nature was keenly alive to. It went along with other points of conduct in Mr. Fare brother which were exceptionally fine, and made his character resemble those southern landscapes which seem divided between natural grandeur and social slovenliness. Very few men could have been as filial and chivalrous as he was to the mother, aunt, and sister, whose dependence on him had in many ways shaped his life rather uneasily for himself; few men who feel the pressure of small needs are so nobly resolute not to dress up their inevitably self-interested desires in a pretext of better motives. In these matters he was conscious that his life would bear the closest scrutiny; and perhaps the consciousness encouraged a little defiance towards the critical strictness of persons whose celestial intimacies seemed not to improve their domestic manners, and whose lofty aims were not needed to account for their actions. Then, his preaching was ingenious and pithy, like the preaching of the English Church in its robust age, and his sermons were delivered without book. People outside his parish went to hear him; and, since to fill the church was always the most difficult part of a clergyman’s function, here was another ground for a careless sense of superiority. Besides, he was a likable man: sweet-tempered, ready-witted, frank, without grins of suppressed bitterness or other conversational flavors which make half of us an affliction to our friends. Lydgate liked him heartily, and wished for his friendship.
但随着熟识的加深，他对圣博托尔夫牧师的好感也与日俱增。法尔布拉泽先生作为一个新来者，有自己的职业目标要确保，进入利德盖特的位置，应该煞费苦心地警告他，而不是引起他的兴趣，这表现出了一种不同寻常的微妙和慷慨，而利德盖特的本性非常活跃。到。这与法尔兄弟的其他品行相得益彰，使他的性格就像那些南方风景，似乎既有自然的宏伟，又有社会的邋遢。很少有人能像他对母亲、姑姑和妹妹那样孝顺和侠义，他们对他的依赖在很多方面使他的生活变得相当不安。很少有男人在感受到小需求的压力时，会如此高尚地坚决不以更好的动机为借口来粉饰自己不可避免的自利欲望。在这些事情上，他意识到他的生活将受到最严格的审视。也许这种意识鼓励了对那些与天上的亲密关系似乎并不能改善他们的家庭礼仪的人的严格严格性的一点蔑视，并且他们的崇高目标不需要解释他们的行为。然后，他的讲道巧妙而精练，就像英国教会在强盛时期的讲道一样，而且他的讲道是在没有书籍的情况下进行的。教区外的人们都去听他的演讲。而且，由于在教堂里任职始终是牧师职责中最困难的部分，因此这是粗心的优越感的另一个理由。此外，他是一个讨人喜欢的人：脾气温和、机智、坦率，笑容中没有压抑的苦涩或其他使我们一半人对我们的朋友感到痛苦的谈话味道。 利德盖特衷心喜欢他，并希望与他建立友谊。

With this feeling uppermost, he continued to waive the question of the chaplaincy, and to persuade himself that it was not only no proper business of his, but likely enough never to vex him with a demand for his vote. Lydgate, at Mr. Bulstrode’s request, was laying down plans for the internal arrangements of the new hospital, and the two were often in consultation. The banker was always presupposing that he could count in general on Lydgate as a coadjutor, but made no special recurrence to the coming decision between Tyke and Farebrother. When the General Board of the Infirmary had met, however, and Lydgate had notice that the question of the chaplaincy was thrown on a council of the directors and medical men, to meet on the following Friday, he had a vexed sense that he must make up his mind on this trivial Middlemarch business. He could not help hearing within him the distinct declaration that Bulstrode was prime minister, and that the Tyke affair was a question of office or no office; and he could not help an equally pronounced dislike to giving up the prospect of office. For his observation was constantly confirming Mr. Farebrother’s assurance that the banker would not overlook opposition. ‘Confound their petty politics!’ was one of his thoughts for three mornings in the meditative process of shaving, when he had begun to feel that he must really hold a court of conscience on this matter. Certainly there were valid things to be said against the election of Mr. Farebrother: he had too much on his hands already, especially considering how much time he spent on non-clerical occupations. Then again it was a continually repeated shock, disturbing Lydgate’s esteem, that the Vicar should obviously play for the sake of money, liking the play indeed, but evidently liking some end which it served. Mr. Farebrother contended on theory for the desirability of all games, and said that Englishmen’s wit was stagnant for want of them; but Lydgate felt certain that he would have played very much less but for the money. There was a billiard-room at the Green Dragon, which some anxious mothers and wives regarded as the chief temptation in Middlemarch. The Vicar was a first-rate billiard-player, and though he did not frequent the Green Dragon, there were reports that he had sometimes been there in the daytime and had won money. And as to the chaplaincy, he did not pretend that he cared for it, except for the sake of the forty pounds. Lydgate was no Puritan, but he did not care for play, and winning money at it had always seemed a meanness to him; besides, he had an ideal of life which made this subservience of conduct to the gaining of small sums thoroughly hateful to him. Hitherto in his own life his wants had been supplied without any trouble to himself, and his first impulse was always to be liberal with half-crowns as matters of no importance to a gentleman; it had never occurred to him to devise a plan for getting half-crowns. He had always known in a general way that he was not rich, but he had never felt poor, and he had no power of imagining the part which the want of money plays in determining the actions of men. Money had never been a motive to him. Hence he was not ready to frame excuses for this deliberate pursuit of small gains. It was altogether repulsive to him, and he never entered into any calculation of the ratio between the Vicar’s income and his more or less necessary expenditure. It was possible that he would not have made such a calculation in his own case.
带着这种感觉，他继续放弃牧师职位的问题，并说服自己，这不仅不适合他，而且很可能永远不会因为要求他投票而烦恼他。利德盖特应布尔斯特罗德先生的要求，为新医院的内部安排制定计划，两人经常进行协商。这位银行家总是预设他总体上可以指望利德盖特作为副官，但并没有特别提及泰克和费雷布拉瑟之间即将做出的决定。然而，当医务室总委员会开会时，利德盖特注意到牧师职位的问题被抛给了一个由董事和医务人员组成的委员会，将于下周五举行会议，他有一种烦恼的感觉，他必须做出决定。他在米德尔马契的这件琐事上打起了主意。他不禁在心里清楚地听到布尔斯特罗德是首相，而泰克事件是一个任职或不任职的问题；他同样明显地不愿意放弃公职的前景。因为他的观察不断证实了费勒布拉泽先生的保证，即银行家不会忽视反对意见。 “打乱他们的小政治！”这是他在剃须的冥想过程中三个早晨的想法之一，当时他开始觉得他必须在这件事上真正进行良心法庭。当然，反对费雷布拉泽先生当选的说法是有道理的：他手上已经有太多事情要做，特别是考虑到他在非文书工作上花费了多少时间。 然而，这又是一次不断重复的震惊，扰乱了利德盖特的自尊，牧师显然应该为了钱而玩，确实喜欢这个游戏，但显然喜欢它所服务的某个目的。法尔布拉泽先生从理论上论证了所有游戏的可取性，并说英国人的智慧因缺乏游戏而停滞不前。但利德盖特确信，如果不是为了钱，他的比赛次数会少得多。绿龙酒店有一个台球室，一些焦虑的母亲和妻子认为这是米德尔马契的主要诱惑。牧师是一位一流的台球手，虽然他不经常光顾绿龙，但有报道称他有时白天也会去那儿并赢过钱。至于牧师的职位，他并没有假装自己很关心，除了四十英镑的缘故。利德盖特不是清教徒，但他不喜欢赌博，而且在他看来，通过赌博赢钱一直是一种卑鄙行为。此外，他的生活理想使他对这种为了获取小额金钱而屈从的行为感到十分厌恶。到目前为止，在他自己的生活中，他的需要已经得到了满足，对他自己来说没有任何麻烦，他的第一冲动总是慷慨地给予半克朗，因为这对绅士来说并不重要。他从来没有想过要制定一个获得半克朗的计划。他一直大体上知道自己并不富有，但他从未感到贫穷，而且他无法想象金钱的匮乏在决定人们的行为方面所扮演的角色。金钱从来都不是他的动机。因此，他不准备为这种刻意追求小利的行为找借口。 这对他来说是完全令人厌恶的，他从来没有计算过牧师的收入和他或多或少的必要支出之间的比率。以他自己的情况，恐怕不会做出这样的算计。

And now, when the question of voting had come, this repulsive fact told more strongly against Mr. Farebrother than it had done before. One would know much better what to do if men’s characters were more consistent, and especially if one’s friends were invariably fit for any function they desired to undertake! Lydgate was convinced that if there had been no valid objection to Mr. Farebrother, he would have voted for him, whatever Bulstrode might have felt on the subject: he did not intend to be a vassal of Bulstrode’s. On the other hand, there was Tyke, a man entirely given to his clerical office, who was simply curate at a chapel of ease in St. Peter’s parish, and had time for extra duty. Nobody had anything to say against Mr. Tyke, except that they could not bear him, and suspected him of cant. Really, from his point of view, Bulstrode was thoroughly justified.
现在，当投票问题到来时，这个令人厌恶的事实比以前更加强烈地反对费尔布拉泽先生。如果男人的性格更加一致，特别是如果一个人的朋友总是适合他们想要承担的任何职责，那么人们就会更好地知道该怎么做！利德盖特确信，如果没有对费勒布拉泽先生提出有效的反对意见，他就会投票给他，无论布尔斯特罗德在这个问题上有什么感受：他无意成为布尔斯特罗德的附庸。另一方面，泰克是一个完全专注于文书工作的人，他只是在圣彼得教区的一个舒适的教堂里担任牧师，并且有时间做额外的工作。没有人对泰克先生有什么意见，只是他们无法忍受他，并怀疑他不诚实。确实，从布尔斯特罗德的角度来看，他是完全有道理的。

But whichever way Lydgate began to incline, there was something to make him wince; and being a proud man, he was a little exasperated at being obliged to wince. He did not like frustrating his own best purposes by getting on bad terms with Bulstrode; he did not like voting against Farebrother, and helping to deprive him of function and salary; and the question occurred whether the additional forty pounds might not leave the Vicar free from that ignoble care about winning at cards. Moreover, Lydgate did not like the consciousness that in voting for Tyke he should be voting on the side obviously convenient for himself. But would the end really be his own convenience? Other people would say so, and would allege that he was currying favor with Bulstrode for the sake of making himself important and getting on in the world. What then? He for his own part knew that if his personal prospects simply had been concerned, he would not have cared a rotten nut for the banker’s friendship or enmity. What he really cared for was a medium for his work, a vehicle for his ideas; and after all, was he not bound to prefer the object of getting a good hospital, where he could demonstrate the specific distinctions of fever and test therapeutic results, before anything else connected with this chaplaincy? For the first time Lydgate was feeling the hampering threadlike pressure of small social conditions, and their frustrating complexity. At the end of his inward debate, when he set out for the hospital, his hope was really in the chance that discussion might somehow give a new aspect to the question, and make the scale dip so as to exclude the necessity for voting. I think he trusted a little also to the energy which is begotten by circumstances—some feeling rushing warmly and making resolve easy, while debate in cool blood had only made it more difficult. However it was, he did not distinctly say to himself on which side he would vote; and all the while he was inwardly resenting the subjection which had been forced upon him. It would have seemed beforehand like a ridiculous piece of bad logic that he, with his unmixed resolutions of independence and his select purposes, would find himself at the very outset in the grasp of petty alternatives, each of which was repugnant to him. In his student’s chambers, he had prearranged his social action quite differently.
但无论利德盖特开始倾向于哪一边，总有一些东西让他皱起眉头。作为一个骄傲的人，他对被迫皱眉感到有点恼火。他不喜欢因为与布尔斯特罗德关系不睦而破坏自己的最佳目的。他不喜欢投票反对费雷布拉泽，并帮助剥夺他的职务和薪水；问题是，额外的四十英镑是否不会让牧师摆脱对打牌获胜的不光彩的关心。此外，利德盖特不喜欢这样的意识：在投票给泰克时，他应该投票给明显对自己有利的一方。但结局真的会是他自己的方便吗？其他人会这么说，并声称他是为了让自己变得重要并在世界上取得进步而讨好布尔斯特罗德。然后怎样呢？他自己也知道，如果只是关心他的个人前景，他根本不会关心银行家的友谊或敌意。他真正关心的是他的工作的媒介，他的想法的载体；毕竟，他不是一定会更喜欢去一家好的医院，在那里他可以展示发烧的具体区别并测试治疗结果，然后再做与牧师相关的任何事情吗？利德盖特第一次感受到了社会小环境带来的丝丝般的阻碍，以及它们令人沮丧的复杂性。在他内心的辩论结束后，当他动身去医院时，他真的希望讨论能够以某种方式给这个问题带来新的方面，并使规模下降，从而排除投票的必要性。 我认为他也有点相信环境所产生的能量——有些人感觉热情奔放，让决心变得容易，而冷静的辩论只会让事情变得更加困难。不管怎样，他并没有明确告诉自己他会投票支持哪一边；他内心一直对强加给他的服从感到怨恨。事先看来，这是一个可笑的、糟糕的逻辑：他怀着纯粹的独立决心和选定的目的，却发现自己一开始就陷入了微不足道的选择之中，而每一个选择都令他感到厌恶。在他的学生宿舍里，他预先安排的社交活动完全不同。

Lydgate was late in setting out, but Dr. Sprague, the two other surgeons, and several of the directors had arrived early; Mr. Bulstrode, treasurer and chairman, being among those who were still absent. The conversation seemed to imply that the issue was problematical, and that a majority for Tyke was not so certain as had been generally supposed. The two physicians, for a wonder, turned out to be unanimous, or rather, though of different minds, they concurred in action. Dr. Sprague, the rugged and weighty, was, as every one had foreseen, an adherent of Mr. Farebrother. The Doctor was more than suspected of having no religion, but somehow Middlemarch tolerated this deficiency in him as if he had been a Lord Chancellor; indeed it is probable that his professional weight was the more believed in, the world-old association of cleverness with the evil principle being still potent in the minds even of lady-patients who had the strictest ideas of frilling and sentiment. It was perhaps this negation in the Doctor which made his neighbors call him hard-headed and dry-witted; conditions of texture which were also held favorable to the storing of judgments connected with drugs. At all events, it is certain that if any medical man had come to Middlemarch with the reputation of having very definite religious views, of being given to prayer, and of otherwise showing an active piety, there would have been a general presumption against his medical skill.
利德盖特出发晚了，但斯普拉格医生、另外两名外科医生和几位主任早到了。财务主管兼董事长布尔斯特罗德先生也是仍然缺席的人之一。这次谈话似乎暗示这个问题是有问题的，而且泰克的多数票并不像人们普遍认为的那么确定。令人惊奇的是，这两位医生竟然意见一致，或者更确切地说，尽管想法不同，但他们的行动却一致。斯普拉格博士性格粗犷、举重若轻，正如大家所预见的那样，他是费雷布拉泽先生的追随者。博士被怀疑没有宗教信仰，但不知怎的，米德尔马奇容忍了他的这种缺陷，就好像他是一位大法官一样；事实上，他的职业分量很可能更受人相信，聪明与邪恶原则的世界古老联系仍然有效，甚至在那些对虚饰和多愁善感有着最严格观念的女病人的头脑中也是如此。也许正是医生的这种否定态度，让他的邻居们称他为顽固分子和愚昧无知的人。质地条件也有利于储存与药物有关的判断。无论如何，可以肯定的是，如果有任何一位医生来到米德尔马奇，并以拥有非常明确的宗教观点、热衷于祈祷以及在其他方面表现出积极的虔诚而闻名，人们就会普遍认为他的医学水平不高。技能。

On this ground it was (professionally speaking) fortunate for Dr. Minchin that his religious sympathies were of a general kind, and such as gave a distant medical sanction to all serious sentiment, whether of Church or Dissent, rather than any adhesion to particular tenets. If Mr. Bulstrode insisted, as he was apt to do, on the Lutheran doctrine of justification, as that by which a Church must stand or fall, Dr. Minchin in return was quite sure that man was not a mere machine or a fortuitous conjunction of atoms; if Mrs. Wimple insisted on a particular providence in relation to her stomach complaint, Dr. Minchin for his part liked to keep the mental windows open and objected to fixed limits; if the Unitarian brewer jested about the Athanasian Creed, Dr. Minchin quoted Pope’s ‘Essay on Man.’ He objected to the rather free style of anecdote in which Dr. Sprague indulged, preferring well-sanctioned quotations, and liking refinement of all kinds: it was generally known that he had some kinship to a bishop, and sometimes spent his holidays at ‘the palace.’
从这个角度来看，（从专业角度来说）明钦博士是幸运的，因为他的宗教同情心是普遍的，并且对所有严肃的情感，无论是教会的还是异见的，都给予了遥远的医学制裁，而不是对特定教义的任何坚持。如果布尔斯特罗德先生坚持路德宗的称义教义（他很容易这样做），认为这是教会生存或衰落的依据，那么作为回报，明钦博士非常确信人不仅仅是一台机器或一个偶然的结合体。原子；如果温普尔夫人坚持对她的胃病有某种特定的天意，明钦医生则喜欢保持精神之窗敞开，并反对固定的限制。如果这位一神论酿酒师取笑亚他那修信条，明钦博士就会引用蒲柏的《人论》。他反对斯普拉格博士所沉迷的相当自由的轶事风格，更喜欢经过严格认可的引文，并喜欢各种精炼：众所周知，他与一位主教有某种亲属关系，有时会在“宫殿”度过假期。

Dr. Minchin was soft-handed, pale-complexioned, and of rounded outline, not to be distinguished from a mild clergyman in appearance: whereas Dr. Sprague was superfluously tall; his trousers got creased at the knees, and showed an excess of boot at a time when straps seemed necessary to any dignity of bearing; you heard him go in and out, and up and down, as if he had come to see after the roofing. In short, he had weight, and might be expected to grapple with a disease and throw it; while Dr. Minchin might be better able to detect it lurking and to circumvent it. They enjoyed about equally the mysterious privilege of medical reputation, and concealed with much etiquette their contempt for each other’s skill. Regarding themselves as Middlemarch institutions, they were ready to combine against all innovators, and against non-professionals given to interference. On this ground they were both in their hearts equally averse to Mr. Bulstrode, though Dr. Minchin had never been in open hostility with him, and never differed from him without elaborate explanation to Mrs. Bulstrode, who had found that Dr. Minchin alone understood her constitution. A layman who pried into the professional conduct of medical men, and was always obtruding his reforms,— though he was less directly embarrassing to the two physicians than to the surgeon-apothecaries who attended paupers by contract, was nevertheless offensive to the professional nostril as such; and Dr. Minchin shared fully in the new pique against Bulstrode, excited by his apparent determination to patronize Lydgate. The long-established practitioners, Mr. Wrench and Mr. Toller; were just now standing apart and having a friendly colloquy, in which they agreed that Lydgate was a jackanapes, just made to serve Bulstrode’s purpose. To non-medical friends they had already concurred in praising the other young practitioner, who had come into the town on Mr. Peacock’s retirement without further recommendation than his own merits and such argument for solid professional acquirement as might be gathered from his having apparently wasted no time on other branches of knowledge. It was clear that Lydgate, by not dispensing drugs, intended to cast imputations on his equals, and also to obscure the limit between his own rank as a general practitioner and that of the physicians, who, in the interest of the profession, felt bound to maintain its various grades,— especially against a man who had not been to either of the English universities and enjoyed the absence of anatomical and bedside study there, but came with a libellous pretension to experience in Edinburgh and Paris, where observation might be abundant indeed, but hardly sound.
明钦博士手脚柔软，肤色苍白，轮廓圆润，从外表上看与一位温和的牧师没有什么区别；而斯普拉格博士则过分高大；他的个子高得过分。他的裤子在膝盖处有褶皱，在当时似乎需要系带才能保持尊严的时候，靴子显得多余。你听见他进进出出，上下上下，仿佛他是来检查屋顶的。简而言之，他有体重，可能会被期望与疾病作斗争并扔掉它；而明钦博士也许能够更好地发现它的潜伏并规避它。他们同样享有医学声誉的神秘特权，并以礼节掩盖了对彼此技术的蔑视。他们将自己视为米德尔马契机构，准备联合起来反对所有创新者和容易干涉的非专业人士。基于这一点，他们内心都同样厌恶布尔斯特罗德先生，尽管明钦医生从未公开敌视他，并且在没有向布尔斯特罗德夫人详细解释的情况下也从未与他有过不同意见，布尔斯特罗德夫人发现明钦医生独自一人了解她的体质。一个外行窥探医生的职业行为，总是妨碍他的改革，尽管他让两位医生直接感到尴尬，而不是让那些按合同为穷人看病的外科医生兼药剂师感到尴尬，但他还是冒犯了专业人士的鼻孔，因为这样的;明钦博士完全赞同布尔斯特罗德对布尔斯特罗德的新的愤怒，他对他明显决心赞助利德盖特感到兴奋。资深从业者，扳手先生和托勒先生；他们刚刚站在一起进行了一次友好的交谈，他们一致认为利德盖特是一只杰克纳猿，只是为了服务布尔斯特罗德的目的而生的。 对于非医学界的朋友来说，他们已经一致赞扬了另一位年轻的从业者，他是在皮科克先生退休后来到这个小镇的，除了他自己的优点之外，没有进一步的推荐，也没有从他明显浪费的时间中收集到扎实的专业知识的论据。没有时间学习其他知识分支。很明显，利德盖特不配药的目的是要对他的同辈人进行指责，并模糊他自己作为全科医生和医生之间的界限，而医生为了职业的利益，感到受到约束为了维持其不同的成绩，特别是针对一个没有去过任何一所英国大学并且享受那里没有解剖学和临床研究的人，但带着诽谤性的借口来到爱丁堡和巴黎，那里的观察可能很丰富确实如此，但很难听起来。

Thus it happened that on this occasion Bulstrode became identified with Lydgate, and Lydgate with Tyke; and owing to this variety of interchangeable names for the chaplaincy question, diverse minds were enabled to form the same judgment concerning it.
因此，这次布尔斯特罗德与利德盖特融为一体，而利德盖特又与泰克融为一体。由于牧师问题有多种可互换的名称，不同的人能够对此形成相同的判断。

Dr. Sprague said at once bluntly. to the group assembled when he entered, ‘I go for Farebrother. A salary, with all my heart. But why take it from the Vicar? He has none too much—has to insure his life, besides keeping house, and doing a vicar’s charities. Put forty pounds in his pocket and you’ll do no harm. He’s a good fellow, is Farebrother, with as little of the parson about him as will serve to carry orders.’
斯普拉格博士立刻直言不讳地说。当他进来时，他对聚集的人群说：“我选择费雷布拉泽。”薪水，全心全意。但为什么要从牧师那里拿它呢？他没有太多的东西——除了持家和做牧师的慈善事业之外，他还必须保证自己的生命。把四十英镑放进他的口袋里，你不会造成任何伤害。费雷布拉泽是个好人，他身上没有牧师的影子，只是负责执行命令。

‘Ho, ho! Doctor,’ said old Mr. Powderell, a retired iron-monger of some standing—his interjection being something between a laugh and a Parliamentary disapproval; ‘we must let you have your say. But what we have to consider is not anybody’s income—it’s the souls of the poor sick people’—here Mr. Powderell’s voice and face had a sincere pathos in them. ‘He is a real Gospel preacher, is Mr. Tyke. I should vote against my conscience if I voted against Mr. Tyke— I should indeed.’
‘嗬，嗬！波德德尔老先生说道，他是一位颇有名气的退休铁商。他的感叹语气介于笑声和议会的反对之间。 ‘我们必须让你有发言权。但我们要考虑的不是任何人的收入，而是那些可怜的病人的灵魂。在这里，波德尔先生的声音和表情都流露出真诚的悲怆。 “泰克先生是一位真正的福音传教士。如果我投票反对泰克先生，我就应该违背我的良心投票——我确实应该这样做。

‘Mr. Tyke’s opponents have not asked any one to vote against his conscience, I believe,’ said Mr. Hackbutt, a rich tanner of fluent speech, whose glittering spectacles and erect hair were turned with some severity towards innocent Mr. Powderell. ‘But in my judgment it behoves us, as Directors, to consider whether we will regard it as our whole business to carry out propositions emanating from a single quarter. Will any member of the committee aver that he would have entertained the idea of displacing the gentleman who has always discharged the function of chaplain here, if it had not been suggested to him by parties whose disposition it is to regard every institution of this town as a machinery for carrying out their own views? I tax no man’s motives: let them lie between himself and a higher Power; but I do say, that there are influences at work here which are incompatible with genuine independence, and that a crawling servility is usually dictated by circumstances which gentlemen so conducting themselves could not afford either morally or financially to avow. I myself am a layman, but I have given no inconsiderable attention to the divisions in the Church and—‘
'先生。我相信，泰克的对手并没有要求任何人违背他的良心投票。”哈克布特先生说。哈克布特是一位皮肤黝黑、言语流畅的人，他闪闪发光的眼镜和直立的头发带着某种严厉的态度转向无辜的波德尔先生。 “但根据我的判断，作为董事，我们应该考虑是否将执行单个季度的提议视为我们的全部业务。委员会的任何成员是否会声称，如果不是那些倾向于将这个镇的每个机构视为一个执行自己观点的机器？我不追究任何人的动机：让它们介于他自己和更高的权力之间；但我确实要说，这里存在着与真正的独立不相容的影响，而这种卑鄙的奴性通常是由这样的绅士们在道德上或经济上都无法承认的环境所决定的。我本人是一个外行，但我对教会中的分歧并没有给予过分的关注，而且——”

‘Oh, damn the divisions!’ burst in Mr. Frank Hawley, lawyer and town-clerk, who rarely presented himself at the board, but now looked in hurriedly, whip in hand. ‘We have nothing to do with them here. Farebrother has been doing the work—what there was—without pay, and if pay is to be given, it should be given to him. I call it a confounded job to take the thing away from Farebrother.’
“哦，该死的分歧！”律师兼镇书记员弗兰克·霍利先生突然插话道。他很少出现在董事会上，但现在手里拿着鞭子，匆忙地看着。 ‘我们在这里与他们没有任何关系。费雷布拉泽一直在做这项工作——以前的工作——没有报酬，如果要给报酬，就应该给他。我称从费雷布拉泽手中夺走这东西是一项令人困惑的工作。

‘I think it would be as well for gentlemen not to give their remarks a personal bearing,’ said Mr. Plymdale. ‘I shall vote for the appointment of Mr. Tyke, but I should not have known, if Mr. Hackbutt hadn’t hinted it, that I was a Servile Crawler.’
“我认为先生们最好不要将自己的言论带有个人色彩，”普林代尔先生说。 “我将投票支持泰克先生的任命，但如果哈克布特先生没有暗示，我不应该知道我是一名奴仆爬行者。”

‘I disclaim any personalities. I expressly said, if I may be allowed to repeat, or even to conclude what I was about to say—‘
“我否认任何个人身份。我明确表示，如果允许我重复，甚至总结我要说的话——”

‘Ah, here’s Minchin!’ said Mr. Frank Hawley; at which everybody turned away from Mr. Hackbutt, leaving him to feel the uselessness of superior gifts in Middlemarch. ‘Come, Doctor, I must have you on the right side, eh?’
“啊，明钦来了！”弗兰克·霍利先生说道。所有人都对哈克巴特先生敬而远之，让他感到在米德尔马契再优秀的天赋也毫无用处。 “来吧，医生，我必须让你站在右边，嗯？”

‘I hope so,’ said Dr. Minchin, nodding and shaking hands here and there; ‘at whatever cost to my feelings.’
“我希望如此，”明钦医生一边点头，一边握手。 “不惜牺牲我的感情。”

‘If there’s any feeling here, it should be feeling for the man who is turned out, I think,’ said Mr. Frank Hawley.
“我想，如果这里有任何感情的话，那应该是对那个被赶出来的人的感情，”弗兰克·霍利先生说。

‘I confess I have feelings on the other side also. I have a divided esteem,’ said Dr. Minchin, rubbing his hands. ‘I consider Mr. Tyke an exemplary man—none more so—and I believe him to be proposed from unimpeachable motives. I, for my part, wish that I could give him my vote. But I am constrained to take a view of the case which gives the preponderance to Mr. Farebrother’s claims. He is an amiable man, an able preacher, and has been longer among us.’
“我承认我对另一方也有感情。 “我的尊重是有分歧的，”明钦博士揉着双手说道。 “我认为泰克先生是一位模范人物——仅此而已——而且我相信他的提议是出于无可指责的动机。就我而言，我希望能给他投票。但我不得不对这个案件采取以费雷布拉泽先生的主张为主的观点。他是一位和蔼可亲的人，一位能干的传教士，并且在我们中间生活的时间更长。

Old Mr. Powderell looked on, sad and silent. Mr. Plymdale settled his cravat, uneasily.
老波德尔先生在一旁看着，悲伤而沉默。普利姆代尔先生不安地系好领带。

‘You don’t set up Farebrother as a pattern of what a clergyman ought to be, I hope,’ said Mr. Larcher, the eminent carrier, who had just come in. ‘I have no ill-will towards him, but I think we owe something to the public, not to speak of anything higher, in these appointments. In my opinion Farebrother is too lax for a clergyman. I don’t wish to bring up particulars against him; but he will make a little attendance here go as far as he can.’
“我希望，你没有把费雷布拉泽视为牧师应有的典范，”刚刚进来的著名携带者拉彻先生说。“我对他没有恶意，但我我认为，在这些任命中，我们欠公众一些东西，更不用说任何更高的东西了。在我看来，费雷布拉泽对于一名牧师来说太宽松了。我不想提出针对他的细节；但他会尽可能地让这里的人少一些。”

‘And a devilish deal better than too much,’ said Mr. Hawley, whose bad language was notorious in that part of the county. ‘Sick people can’t bear so much praying and preaching. And that methodistical sort of religion is bad for the spirits— bad for the inside, eh?’ he added, turning quickly round to the four medical men who were assembled.
“一笔恶魔般的交易总比太多要好，”霍利先生说，他的脏话在该县的那个地区是出了名的。 “病人无法忍受这么多的祈祷和讲道。这种有条不紊的宗教对精神有害——对内心有害，是吗？”他补充道，迅速转向聚集在一起的四位医生。

But any answer was dispensed with by the entrance of three gentlemen, with whom there were greetings more or less cordial. These were the Reverend Edward Thesiger, Rector of St. Peter’s, Mr. Bulstrode, and our friend Mr. Brooke of Tipton, who had lately allowed himself to be put on the board of directors in his turn, but had never before attended, his attendance now being due to Mr. Bulstrode’s exertions. Lydgate was the only person still expected.
但三位绅士的到来让一切都不再需要回答，他们或多或少地受到了亲切的问候。他们是圣彼得教堂的教区长爱德华·塞西格牧师、布尔斯特罗德先生和我们的朋友蒂普顿的布鲁克先生，他最近允许自己轮流进入董事会，但以前从未参加过他的董事会。由于布尔斯特罗德先生的努力，现在的出席率很高。利德盖特是唯一还在等待的人。

Every one now sat down, Mr. Bulstrode presiding, pale and self-restrained as usual. Mr. Thesiger, a moderate evangelical, wished for the appointment of his friend Mr. Tyke, a zealous able man, who, officiating at a chapel of ease, had not a cure of souls too extensive to leave him ample time for the new duty. It was desirable that chaplaincies of this kind should be entered on with a fervent intention: they were peculiar opportunities for spiritual influence; and while it was good that a salary should be allotted, there was the more need for scrupulous watching lest the office should be perverted into a mere question of salary. Mr. Thesiger’s manner had so much quiet propriety that objectors could only simmer in silence.
现在每个人都坐下来，由布尔斯特罗德先生主持，他的脸色苍白，像往常一样克制。塞西格先生是一位温和的福音派人士，他希望任命他的朋友泰克先生为人，泰克先生是一位热心能干的人，负责主持一个安逸的教堂，他没有太多的灵魂治愈方法，无法给他留下足够的时间来履行新的职责。从事这种牧师工作应该怀着热切的意愿，这是可取的：它们是产生精神影响力的特殊机会；虽然工资的分配固然好，但更需要小心谨慎，以免办公室被歪曲成纯粹的工资问题。塞西格先生的举止非常得体，以至于反对者只能默默地忍耐。

Mr. Brooke believed that everybody meant well in the matter. He had not himself attended to the affairs of the Infirmary, though he had a strong interest in whatever was for the benefit of Middlemarch, and was most happy to meet the gentlemen present on any public question— ‘any public question, you know,’ Mr. Brooke repeated, with his nod of perfect understanding. ‘I am a good deal occupied as a magistrate, and in the collection of documentary evidence, but I regard my time as being at the disposal of the public—and, in short, my friends have convinced me that a chaplain with a salary—a salary, you know— is a very good thing, and I am happy to be able to come here and vote for the appointment of Mr. Tyke, who, I understand, is an unexceptionable man, apostolic and eloquent and everything of that kind— and I am the last man to withhold my vote—under the circumstances, you know.’
布鲁克先生相信大家在这件事上都是出于好意。他本人并没有参与医务室的事务，尽管他对任何有利于米德尔马奇的事情都抱有浓厚的兴趣，并且非常高兴能在任何公共问题上会见在场的先生们——“任何公共问题，你知道，”布鲁克先生重复了一遍，点头表示完全理解。 “作为一名地方法官，我忙于收集文件证据，但我认为我的时间是供公众支配的——简而言之，我的朋友们让我相信，一个拿着薪水的牧师——薪水，你知道的——是一件非常好的事情，我很高兴能够来到这里投票支持泰克先生的任命，据我所知，他是一个无可挑剔的人，具有使徒性，雄辩，诸如此类。 ——在这种情况下，我是最后一个不投票的人，你知道的。

‘It seems to me that you have been crammed with one side of the question, Mr. Brooke,’ said Mr. Frank Hawley, who was afraid of nobody, and was a Tory suspicious of electioneering intentions. ‘You don’t seem to know that one of the worthiest men we have has been doing duty as chaplain here for years without pay, and that Mr. Tyke is proposed to supersede him.’
“布鲁克先生，在我看来，你只关注了问题的一面，”弗兰克·霍利先生说。他谁也不害怕，而且是一名对竞选意图持怀疑态度的保守党人。 “你似乎不知道我们最有价值的人之一多年来一直在这里无薪担任牧师，而泰克先生被提议取代他。”

‘Excuse me, Mr. Hawley,’ said Mr. Bulstrode. ‘Mr. Brooke has been fully informed of Mr. Farebrother’s character and position.’
“对不起，霍利先生，”布尔斯特罗德先生说。 '先生。布鲁克已完全了解费尔布拉泽先生的性格和立场。

‘By his enemies,’ flashed out Mr. Hawley.
“是他的敌人干的。”霍利先生突然脱口而出。

‘I trust there is no personal hostility concerned here,’ said Mr. Thesiger.
“我相信这里不存在个人敌意，”塞西格先生说。

‘I’ll swear there is, though,’ retorted Mr. Hawley.
“不过，我发誓确实有，”霍利先生反驳道。

‘Gentlemen,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, in a subdued tone, ‘the merits of the question may be very briefly stated, and if any one present doubts that every gentleman who is about to give his vote has not been fully informed, I can now recapitulate the considerations that should weigh on either side.’
“先生们，”布尔斯特罗德先生用柔和的语气说道，“这个问题的优点可以非常简短地陈述，如果在场的任何人怀疑每一位即将投票的先生都没有得到充分的通知，我可以现在概括一下双方应该考虑的因素。

‘I don’t see the good of that,’ said Mr. Hawley. ‘I suppose we all know whom we mean to vote for. Any man who wants to do justice does not wait till the last minute to hear both sides of the question. I have no time to lose, and I propose that the matter be put to the vote at once.’
“我看不出这样做有什么好处，”霍利先生说。 “我想我们都知道我们要投票给谁。任何想要伸张正义的人都不会等到最后一刻才听取问题双方的意见。我不能再浪费时间了，我建议立即将此事付诸表决。”

A brief but still hot discussion followed before each person wrote ‘Tyke’ or ‘Farebrother’ on a piece of paper and slipped it into a glass tumbler; and in the mean time Mr. Bulstrode saw Lydgate enter.
随后进行了简短但仍然激烈的讨论，然后每个人在一张纸上写下“Tyke”或“Farebrother”并将其放入玻璃杯中；与此同时，布尔斯特罗德先生看到利德盖特进来了。

‘I perceive that the votes are equally divided at present,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, in a clear biting voice. Then, looking up at Lydgate—
“我认为目前选票是平等的，”布尔斯特罗德先生用尖锐的声音说道。然后，抬头看着利德盖特——

‘There is a casting-vote still to be given. It is yours, Mr. Lydgate: will you be good enough to write?’
“还有一个决定性的投票需要进行。这是你的，利德盖特先生：你会写字吗？

‘The thing is settled now,’ said Mr. Wrench, rising. ‘We all know how Mr. Lydgate will vote.’
“现在事情已经解决了，”扳手先生站起来说道。 “我们都知道利德盖特先生将如何投票。”

‘You seem to speak with some peculiar meaning, sir,’ said Lydgate, rather defiantly, and keeping his pencil suspended.
“您说话的意思似乎有些奇怪，先生。”利德盖特悬着铅笔，相当挑衅地说。

‘I merely mean that you are expected to vote with Mr. Bulstrode. Do you regard that meaning as offensive?’
“我只是说你应该投票支持布尔斯特罗德先生。你认为这个意思具有冒犯性吗？

‘It may be offensive to others. But I shall not desist from voting with him on that account.’ Lydgate immediately wrote down ‘Tyke.’
‘这可能会冒犯别人。但我不会因此停止投票支持他。”利德盖特立即写下了“泰克”。

So the Rev. Walter Tyke became chaplain to the Infirmary, and Lydgate continued to work with Mr. Bulstrode. He was really uncertain whether Tyke were not the more suitable candidate, and yet his consciousness told him that if he had been quite free from indirect bias he should have voted for Mr. Farebrother. The affair of the chaplaincy remained a sore point in his memory as a case in which this petty medium of Middlemarch had been too strong for him. How could a man be satisfied with a decision between such alternatives and under such circumstances? No more than he can be satisfied with his hat, which he has chosen from among such shapes as the resources of the age offer him, wearing it at best with a resignation which is chiefly supported by comparison.
因此，沃尔特·泰克牧师成为了医务室的牧师，利德盖特继续与布尔斯特罗德先生一起工作。他确实不确定泰克是否不是更合适的候选人，但他的意识告诉他，如果他完全没有间接偏见，他应该投票给费雷布拉泽先生。牧师的事情仍然是他记忆中的一个痛处，因为米德尔马契的这个小媒介对他来说太强大了。在这样的情况下，一个人怎么会对在这样的选择之间做出的决定感到满意呢？就像他对自己的帽子感到不满意一样，帽子是他从时代资源提供给他的形状中选择的，顶多是带着一种顺从的态度戴上它，这主要是通过比较来支持的。

But Mr. Farebrother met him with the same friendliness as before. The character of the publican and sinner is not always practically incompatible with that of the modern Pharisee, for the majority of us scarcely see more distinctly the faultiness of our own conduct than the faultiness of our own arguments, or the dulness of our own jokes. But the Vicar of St. Botolph’s had certainly escaped the slightest tincture of the Pharisee, and by dint of admitting to himself that he was too much as other men were, he had become remarkably unlike them in this—that he could excuse other; for thinking slightly of him, and could judge impartially of their conduct even when it told against him.
但费雷布拉泽先生见到他时还是一如既往的友善。税吏和罪人的性格实际上并不总是与现代法利赛人的性格不相容，因为我们大多数人几乎没有比我们自己的论点的错误或我们自己的笑话的愚蠢更清楚地看到我们自己行为的错误。但圣博托尔夫教堂的牧师显然没有沾染上丝毫的法利赛人的色彩，并且由于他承认自己与其他人一样，他在这一点上变得与他们截然不同——他可以原谅别人；因为他对他的看法不高，并且能够公正地判断他们的行为，即使这些行为对他不利。

‘The world has been to strong for ME, I know,’ he said one day to Lydgate. ‘But then I am not a mighty man—I shall never be a man of renown. The choice of Hercules is a pretty fable; but Prodicus makes it easy work for the hero, as if the first resolves were enough. Another story says that he came to hold the distaff, and at last wore the Nessus shirt. I suppose one good resolve might keep a man right if everybody else’s resolve helped him.’
“我知道，这个世界对我来说太强大了，”有一天他对利德盖特说道。 ‘但是我不是一个强大的人——我永远不会成为一个有名的人。赫拉克勒斯的选择是一个美丽的寓言。但普罗迪克斯让英雄的工作变得很容易，就好像最初的决心就足够了。另一个故事说他来握住棍子，最后穿上了涅索斯衬衫。我想，如果其他人的决心都对一个人有帮助，那么一个好的决心就可能使一个人保持正确。

The Vicar’s talk was not always inspiriting: he had escaped being a Pharisee, but he had not escaped that low estimate of possibilities which we rather hastily arrive at as an inference from our own failure. Lydgate thought that there was a pitiable infirmity of will in Mr. Farebrother.
牧师的谈话并不总是鼓舞人心：他逃脱了法利赛人的束缚，但他并没有逃脱对可能性的低估计，而这种估计是我们从自己的失败中仓促得出的推论。利德盖特认为费勒布拉泽先生的意志力很薄弱，令人可怜。

CHAPTER XIX
第十九章

‘L’ altra vedete ch’ha fatto alla guancia
Della sua palma, sospirando, letto.’
Della sua palma, sospirando, letto。’

—Purgatorio, vii.
——炼狱，七。

When George the Fourth was still reigning over the privacies of Windsor, when the Duke of Wellington was Prime Minister, and Mr. Vincy was mayor of the old corporation in Middlemarch, Mrs. Casaubon, born Dorothea Brooke, had taken her wedding journey to Rome. In those days the world in general was more ignorant of good and evil by forty years than it is at present. Travellers did not often carry full information on Christian art either in their heads or their pockets; and even the most brilliant English critic of the day mistook the flower-flushed tomb of the ascended Virgin for an ornamental vase due to the painter’s fancy. Romanticism, which has helped to fill some dull blanks with love and knowledge, had not yet penetrated the times with its leaven and entered into everybody’s food; it was fermenting still as a distinguishable vigorous enthusiasm in certain long-haired German artists at Rome, and the youth of other nations who worked or idled near them were sometimes caught in the spreading movement.
当乔治四世还在统治温莎的隐私时，威灵顿公爵担任首相，文西先生担任米德尔马契旧公司的市长时，卡苏邦夫人（原名多萝西娅·布鲁克）已经踏上了前往罗马的婚礼之旅。 。那时的世界，总体上比现在不知善恶多了四十年。旅行者的头脑或口袋中并不经常携带有关基督教艺术的完整信息。由于画家的奇思妙想，就连当时最杰出的英国评论家也将升天圣母的鲜花盛开的坟墓误认为是一个装饰花瓶。浪漫主义曾用爱和知识帮助填补了一些沉闷的空白，但它还没有以其酵母渗透到时代并进入每个人的食物中。在罗马的某些长发德国艺术家中，这种明显的强烈热情仍在发酵，而在他们附近工作或闲逛的其他国家的年轻人有时也被卷入这场蔓延的运动中。

One fine morning a young man whose hair was not immoderately long, but abundant and curly, and who was otherwise English in his equipment, had just turned his back on the Belvedere Torso in the Vatican and was looking out on the magnificent view of the mountains from the adjoining round vestibule. He was sufficiently absorbed not to notice the approach of a dark-eyed, animated German who came up to him and placing a hand on his shoulder, said with a strong accent, ‘Come here, quick! else she will have changed her pose.’
一个晴朗的早晨，一位年轻人的头发不是过分长，而是浓密而卷曲，他的装备是英国式的，他刚刚背对着梵蒂冈的观景台，眺望着壮丽的山景。从毗邻的圆形前厅。他全神贯注，没有注意到一个黑眼睛、生气勃勃的德国人走近，他走到他面前，把手搭在他的肩膀上，用浓重的口音说道：“快过来，快！”否则她就会改变姿势。

Quickness was ready at the call, and the two figures passed lightly along by the Meleager, towards the hall where the reclining Ariadne, then called the Cleopatra, lies in the marble voluptuousness of her beauty, the drapery folding around her with a petal-like ease and tenderness. They were just in time to see another figure standing against a pedestal near the reclining marble: a breathing blooming girl, whose form, not shamed by the Ariadne, was clad in Quakerish gray drapery; her long cloak, fastened at the neck, was thrown backward from her arms, and one beautiful ungloved hand pillowed her cheek, pushing somewhat backward the white beaver bonnet which made a sort of halo to her face around the simply braided dark-brown hair. She was not looking at the sculpture, probably not thinking of it: her large eyes were fixed dreamily on a streak of sunlight which fell across the floor. But she became conscious of the two strangers who suddenly paused as if to contemplate the Cleopatra, and, without looking at them, immediately turned away to join a maid-servant and courier who were loitering along the hall at a little distance off.
很快，两人就准备好了，两个人轻轻地经过梅勒阿格，朝大厅走去，阿里阿德涅，当时被称为克利奥帕特拉，躺在那里，躺在她美丽的大理石上，帷幔像花瓣一样折叠在她身上。轻松和温柔。他们正好看到另一个人影站在斜倚大理石附近的一个基座上：一个呼吸着盛开的女孩，她的身材没有被阿里阿德涅羞辱，穿着贵格会的灰色帷幔；她系在脖子上的长斗篷从怀里向后抛开，一只未戴手套的漂亮手枕在她的脸颊上，把白色的海狸帽往后推了一下，帽子在她简单编成辫子的深棕色头发周围形成了一种光环。她没有在看雕塑，可能也没有在想它：她的大眼睛出神地盯着落在地板上的一缕阳光。但她意识到这两个陌生人突然停下来，仿佛在凝视克利奥帕特拉，没有看他们，立即转过身去，加入了在不远处的大厅里徘徊的女仆和信使。

‘What do you think of that for a fine bit of antithesis?’ said the German, searching in his friend’s face for responding admiration, but going on volubly without waiting for any other answer. ‘There lies antique beauty, not corpse-like even in death, but arrested in the complete contentment of its sensuous perfection: and here stands beauty in its breathing life, with the consciousness of Christian centuries in its bosom. But she should be dressed as a nun; I think she looks almost what you call a Quaker; I would dress her as a nun in my picture. However, she is married; I saw her wedding-ring on that wonderful left hand, otherwise I should have thought the sallow Geistlicher was her father. I saw him parting from her a good while ago, and just now I found her in that magnificent pose. Only think! he is perhaps rich, and would like to have her portrait taken. Ah! it is no use looking after her— there she goes! Let us follow her home!’
“你觉得这样的对立怎么样？”德国人说道，在他朋友的脸上寻找着钦佩的回应，但没有等待任何其他答案，他就滔滔不绝地继续说道。 “那里有古老的美，即使在死亡时也不像尸体，而是在其感性完美的完全满足中被捕：这里存在着呼吸生命的美，怀抱基督教世纪的意识。但她应该穿得像个修女；我认为她看起来几乎就是你们所谓的贵格会教徒；我会把她打扮成我照片中的修女。然而，她已经结婚了；我看到她那漂亮的左手上戴着结婚戒指，否则我真该以为蜡黄的盖斯特利彻是她的父亲。刚才我就看见他和她分开了，现在才发现她摆出那华丽的姿势。只想到！他也许很有钱，想为她拍张肖像。啊!照顾她是没有用的——她走了！我们跟着她回家吧！

‘No, no,’ said his companion, with a little frown.
“不，不，”他的同伴皱着眉头说道。

‘You are singular, Ladislaw. You look struck together. Do you know her?’
“你很独特，拉迪斯瓦夫。你们看起来很合拍。你认识她吗？'

‘I know that she is married to my cousin,’ said Will Ladislaw, sauntering down the hall with a preoccupied air, while his German friend kept at his side and watched him eagerly.
“我知道她嫁给了我的表弟，”威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫说道，他神情专注地在大厅里闲逛，而他的德国朋友则站在他身边，热切地看着他。

‘What! the Geistlicher? He looks more like an uncle—a more useful sort of relation.’
'什么！盖斯特利彻？他看起来更像是一位叔叔——一种更有用的关系。

‘He is not my uncle. I tell you he is my second cousin,’ said Ladislaw, with some irritation.
‘他不是我叔叔。 “我告诉你，他是我的远房表弟。”拉迪斯瓦夫有些恼怒地说。

‘Schon, schon. Don’t be snappish. You are not angry with me for thinking Mrs. Second-Cousin the most perfect young Madonna I ever saw?’
‘舍恩，舍恩。别急躁。你不会因为我认为二表姐夫人是我见过的最完美的年轻麦当娜而生气吧？

‘Angry? nonsense. I have only seen her once before, for a couple of minutes, when my cousin introduced her to me, just before I left England. They were not married then. I didn’t know they were coming to Rome.’
'生气的？废话。我以前只见过她一次，就几分钟，是在我离开英国之前，我表弟把她介绍给我的。那时他们还没有结婚。我不知道他们要来罗马。”

‘But you will go to see them now—you will find out what they have for an address—since you know the name. Shall we go to the post? And you could speak about the portrait.’
“但是你现在就去见他们——你会知道他们的地址——因为你知道名字。我们去邮局吧？你可以谈论这幅肖像。

‘Confound you, Naumann! I don’t know what I shall do. I am not so brazen as you.’
“让你感到困惑，瑙曼！我不知道我该怎么办。我不像你那么厚颜无耻。

‘Bah! that is because you are dilettantish and amateurish. If you were an artist, you would think of Mistress Second-Cousin as antique form animated by Christian sentiment—a sort of Christian Antigone— sensuous force controlled by spiritual passion.’
'呸！那是因为你很业余，很业余。如果你是一名艺术家，你会认为二表姐夫人是一种受基督教情感驱动的古老形式——一种基督教的安提戈涅——受精神激情控制的感性力量。

‘Yes, and that your painting her was the chief outcome of her existence—the divinity passing into higher completeness and all but exhausted in the act of covering your bit of canvas. I am amateurish if you like: I do NOT think that all the universe is straining towards the obscure significance of your pictures.’
“是的，你为她画的画是她存在的主要成果——神性进入了更高的完整性，在覆盖你那块画布的过程中几乎耗尽了神性。”如果你愿意的话，我是业余的：我不认为整个宇宙都在努力追求你的照片的晦涩意义。

‘But it is, my dear!—so far as it is straining through me, Adolf Naumann: that stands firm,’ said the good-natured painter, putting a hand on Ladislaw’s shoulder, and not in the least disturbed by the unaccountable touch of ill-humor in his tone. ‘See now! My existence presupposes the existence of the whole universe— does it NOT? and my function is to paint—and as a painter I have a conception which is altogether genialisch, of your great-aunt or second grandmother as a subject for a picture; therefore, the universe is straining towards that picture through that particular hook or claw which it puts forth in the shape of me— not true?’
“但它就是这样，亲爱的！——就它在我身上的张力而言，阿道夫·瑙曼：它是坚定的，”这位和善的画家说道，将一只手放在拉迪斯瓦夫的肩膀上，丝毫没有因为这种莫名其妙的触摸而感到不安。他的语气里充满了不幽默。 ‘现在看吧！我的存在以整个宇宙的存在为前提——不是吗？我的职责是绘画——作为一名画家，我有一种完全亲切的观念，即把你的曾祖母或第二祖母作为绘画的主题；因此，宇宙正通过它以我的形状伸出的那个特殊的钩子或爪子向那幅图画倾斜——这不是真的吗？

‘But how if another claw in the shape of me is straining to thwart it?— the case is a little less simple then.’
“但是，如果另一只像我一样的爪子正在竭力阻止它怎么办？——那么情况就不那么简单了。”

‘Not at all: the result of the struggle is the same thing— picture or no picture—logically.’
“一点也不：从逻辑上讲，斗争的结果是一样的——有图画或没有图画。”

Will could not resist this imperturbable temper, and the cloud in his face broke into sunshiny laughter.
威尔无法抗拒这种沉着的脾气，脸上的云彩爆发出阳光灿烂的笑声。

‘Come now, my friend—you will help?’ said Naumann, in a hopeful tone.
“来吧，我的朋友——你会帮忙吗？”瑙曼用充满希望的语气说道。

‘No; nonsense, Naumann! English ladies are not at everybody’s service as models. And you want to express too much with your painting. You would only have made a better or worse portrait with a background which every connoisseur would give a different reason for or against. And what is a portrait of a woman? Your painting and Plastik are poor stuff after all. They perturb and dull conceptions instead of raising them. Language is a finer medium.’
'不;胡说，瑙曼！英国女士作为模特并不能为所有人服务。而且你想用你的画来表达太多。你只会拍出更好或更差的肖像，而每个鉴赏家都会给出不同的理由支持或反对的背景。什么是女性肖像？你的画和Plastik毕竟是烂东西。它们非但没有提升概念，反而扰乱了概念并使其变得迟钝。语言是一种更好的媒介。”

‘Yes, for those who can’t paint,’ said Naumann. ‘There you have perfect right. I did not recommend you to paint, my friend.’
“是的，对于那些不会画画的人来说，”瑙曼说。 ‘你有完全的权利。我不建议你画画，我的朋友。

The amiable artist carried his sting, but Ladislaw did not choose to appear stung. He went on as if he had not heard.
这位和蔼可亲的艺术家带着毒刺，但拉迪斯瓦夫并没有选择表现出被毒刺的样子。他继续说下去，就像没有听到一样。

‘Language gives a fuller image, which is all the better for beings vague. After all, the true seeing is within; and painting stares at you with an insistent imperfection. I feel that especially about representations of women. As if a woman were a mere colored superficies! You must wait for movement and tone. There is a difference in their very breathing: they change from moment to moment.—This woman whom you have just seen, for example: how would you paint her voice, pray? But her voice is much diviner than anything you have seen of her.’
“语言提供了更完整的形象，这对于模糊的存在来说是更好的。毕竟，真正的看见是在内心；而绘画则以一种持续的不完美凝视着你。我尤其对女性的代表有这样的感觉。仿佛女人只是一种有色的肤浅之物！你必须等待动作和语气。他们的呼吸是有区别的：他们每时每刻都在变化。——例如，你刚才看到的这个女人：你会如何画她的声音，祈祷？但她的声音比你见过的任何她的声音都要神圣得多。”

‘I see, I see. You are jealous. No man must presume to think that he can paint your ideal. This is serious, my friend! Your great-aunt! ‘Der Neffe als Onkel’ in a tragic sense—ungeheuer!’
‘我明白了，我明白了。你吃醋。任何人都不能自以为能够描绘出你的理想。这很严重，我的朋友！你的曾祖母！悲剧意义上的“Der Neffe als Onkel”——ungeheuer！

‘You and I shall quarrel, Naumann, if you call that lady my aunt again.’
“瑙曼，如果你再称那位女士为我阿姨，你和我就会吵架。”

‘How is she to be called then?’
“那她该怎么称呼呢？”

‘Mrs. Casaubon.’
'太太。卡苏邦。’

‘Good. Suppose I get acquainted with her in spite of you, and find that she very much wishes to be painted?’
'好的。假设我不顾你的关心认识了她，发现她非常希望被画呢？

‘Yes, suppose!’ said Will Ladislaw, in a contemptuous undertone, intended to dismiss the subject. He was conscious of being irritated by ridiculously small causes, which were half of his own creation. Why was he making any fuss about Mrs. Casaubon? And yet he felt as if something had happened to him with regard to her. There are characters which are continually creating collisions and nodes for themselves in dramas which nobody is prepared to act with them. Their susceptibilities will clash against objects that remain innocently quiet.
“是的，假设吧！”威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫用轻蔑的语气说道，打算回避这个话题。他意识到自己会因为一些小得可笑的原因而感到恼火，而这些原因有一半是他自己造成的。他为什么要对卡苏朋夫人大惊小怪呢？但他却觉得她身上好像发生了什么事。有些角色在戏剧中不断为自己制造冲突和节点，但没人准备与之合作。他们的敏感性会与保持天真的安静的物体发生冲突。

CHAPTER XX.
第二十章。

‘A child forsaken, waking suddenly,
“一个被遗弃的孩子突然醒来，

Whose gaze afeard on all things round doth rove,
他的目光敬畏着周围的一切，

And seeth only that it cannot see
只看到它看不到的东西

The meeting eyes of love.’
充满爱意的眼神。

Two hours later, Dorothea was seated in an inner room or boudoir of a handsome apartment in the Via Sistina.
两个小时后，多萝西娅坐在西斯蒂纳大街一套漂亮公寓的内室或闺房里。

I am sorry to add that she was sobbing bitterly, with such abandonment to this relief of an oppressed heart as a woman habitually controlled by pride on her own account and thoughtfulness for others will sometimes allow herself when she feels securely alone. And Mr. Casaubon was certain to remain away for some time at the Vatican.
我很遗憾地补充说，她哭得很伤心，因为一个习惯于为自己的骄傲和对他人的体贴所控制的女人，当她感到安全地孤独时，有时会允许自己释放一颗受压迫的心。卡苏邦先生肯定会离开梵蒂冈一段时间。

Yet Dorothea had no distinctly shapen grievance that she could state even to herself; and in the midst of her confused thought and passion, the mental act that was struggling forth into clearness was a self-accusing cry that her feeling of desolation was the fault of her own spiritual poverty. She had married the man of her choice, and with the advantage over most girls that she had contemplated her marriage chiefly as the beginning of new duties: from the very first she had thought of Mr. Casaubon as having a mind so much above her own, that he must often be claimed by studies which she could not entirely share; moreover, after the brief narrow experience of her girlhood she was beholding Rome, the city of visible history, where the past of a whole hemisphere seems moving in funeral procession with strange ancestral images and trophies gathered from afar.
然而，多萝西娅甚至对自己也没有明显的不满。在她混乱的思绪和激情中，挣扎着变得清晰的精神行为是一种自责的呼喊，她的荒凉感是她自己精神贫困的错。她嫁给了她选择的男人，与大多数女孩相比，她的优势在于，她把婚姻主要视为新责任的开始：从一开始，她就认为卡苏邦先生的思想远远高于她自己的思想。 ，他必须经常被她无法完全分享的研究所声称；此外，在经历了短暂而狭窄的少女时代之后，她看到了罗马，一座可见历史的城市，整个半球的过去似乎在送葬队伍中移动，奇怪的祖先图像和从远处收集的战利品。

But this stupendous fragmentariness heightened the dreamlike strangeness of her bridal life. Dorothea had now been five weeks in Rome, and in the kindly mornings when autumn and winter seemed to go hand in hand like a happy aged couple one of whom would presently survive in chiller loneliness, she had driven about at first with Mr. Casaubon, but of late chiefly with Tantripp and their experienced courier. She had been led through the best galleries, had been taken to the chief points of view, had been shown the grandest ruins and the most glorious churches, and she had ended by oftenest choosing to drive out to the Campagna where she could feel alone with the earth and sky, away-from the oppressive masquerade of ages, in which her own life too seemed to become a masque with enigmatical costumes.
但这种巨大的碎片加剧了她新娘生活的梦幻般的陌生感。多萝西娅现在已经在罗马呆了五个星期了，在那些和蔼可亲的早晨，秋天和冬天似乎齐头并进，就像一对幸福的老年夫妇，其中一人很快就会在寒冷的孤独中生存，她一开始是和卡苏邦先生一起开车去的，但最近主要是与坦特里普和他们经验丰富的信使一起。她被带过最好的画廊，被带到了主要的景点，被带去参观最宏伟的废墟和最辉煌的教堂，最后她最常选择开车去坎帕尼亚，在那里她可以感到孤独。大地和天空，远离岁月压抑的假面舞会，她自己的生活似乎也成了一场穿着神秘服装的假面舞会。

To those who have looked at Rome with the quickening power of a knowledge which breathes a growing soul into all historic shapes, and traces out the suppressed transitions which unite all contrasts, Rome may still be the spiritual centre and interpreter of the world. But let them conceive one more historical contrast: the gigantic broken revelations of that Imperial and Papal city thrust abruptly on the notions of a girl who had been brought up in English and Swiss Puritanism, fed on meagre Protestant histories and on art chiefly of the hand-screen sort; a girl whose ardent nature turned all her small allowance of knowledge into principles, fusing her actions into their mould, and whose quick emotions gave the most abstract things the quality of a pleasure or a pain; a girl who had lately become a wife, and from the enthusiastic acceptance of untried duty found herself plunged in tumultuous preoccupation with her personal lot. The weight of unintelligible Rome might lie easily on bright nymphs to whom it formed a background for the brilliant picnic of Anglo-foreign society; but Dorothea had no such defence against deep impressions. Ruins and basilicas, palaces and colossi, set in the midst of a sordid present, where all that was living and warm-blooded seemed sunk in the deep degeneracy of a superstition divorced from reverence; the dimmer but yet eager Titanic life gazing and struggling on walls and ceilings; the long vistas of white forms whose marble eyes seemed to hold the monotonous light of an alien world: all this vast wreck of ambitious ideals, sensuous and spiritual, mixed confusedly with the signs of breathing forgetfulness and degradation, at first jarred her as with an electric shock, and then urged themselves on her with that ache belonging to a glut of confused ideas which check the flow of emotion. Forms both pale and glowing took possession of her young sense, and fixed themselves in her memory even when she was not thinking of them, preparing strange associations which remained through her after-years. Our moods are apt to bring with them images which succeed each other like the magic-lantern pictures of a doze; and in certain states of dull forlornness Dorothea all her life continued to see the vastness of St. Peter’s, the huge bronze canopy, the excited intention in the attitudes and garments of the prophets and evangelists in the mosaics above, and the red drapery which was being hung for Christmas spreading itself everywhere like a disease of the retina.
对于那些以知识的加速力量看待罗马的人来说，罗马可能仍然是世界的精神中心和解释者，这种知识将不断成长的灵魂注入到所有历史形态中，并追踪出将所有对比统一起来的压抑的转变。但让他们再设想一个历史对比：这座帝国和教皇城市的巨大破碎的启示突然冲击了一个在英国和瑞士清教主义中长大、以贫乏的新教历史和主要是手工艺术为食的女孩的观念。 -屏幕排序；一个女孩，她热情的天性将她所有的一点点知识转化为原则，将她的行动融入到他们的模型中，她的快速情感给最抽象的事物带来了快乐或痛苦的品质；一个刚刚成为妻子的女孩，由于热情地接受了未经尝试的责任，发现自己陷入了对自己个人命运的混乱关注之中。难以理解的罗马的重担可能很容易压在聪明的仙女身上，对她们来说，它构成了英外社会辉煌野餐的背景。但多萝西娅对深刻的印象却没有这样的防御能力。 废墟和长方形教堂，宫殿和巨像，坐落在肮脏的现在之中，那里所有的生命和热血似乎都陷入了与崇敬相分离的迷信的深深堕落之中；泰坦尼克号的生活虽然昏暗但又热切，凝视着墙壁和天花板，挣扎着；白色的长长的远景，大理石的眼睛似乎闪烁着来自外星世界的单调光芒：所有这些雄心勃勃的理想的巨大残骸，感性的和精神的，与呼吸健忘和堕落的迹象混淆地混合在一起，起初让她感到震惊，就像与一个电击，然后用一种属于大量混乱的想法抑制情感流动的疼痛催促自己。苍白和发光的形状占据了她年轻的感觉，即使在她没有想到它们的时候，它们也固定在她的记忆中，准备着奇怪的联想，这些联想在她的晚年中一直存在。我们的心情很容易带来一些连续出现的画面，就像打瞌睡时的幻灯图一样。在某些沉闷而孤独的状态下，多萝西娅一生不断地看到圣彼得大教堂的广阔，巨大的青铜华盖，上面马赛克中先知和福音传道者的态度和服装中的兴奋意图，以及红色的帷幔。圣诞节挂起来像视网膜疾病一样蔓延到各处。

Not that this inward amazement of Dorothea’s was anything very exceptional: many souls in their young nudity are tumbled out among incongruities and left to ‘find their feet’ among them, while their elders go about their business. Nor can I suppose that when Mrs. Casaubon is discovered in a fit of weeping six weeks after her wedding, the situation will be regarded as tragic. Some discouragement, some faintness of heart at the new real future which replaces the imaginary, is not unusual, and we do not expect people to be deeply moved by what is not unusual. That element of tragedy which lies in the very fact of frequency, has not yet wrought itself into the coarse emotion of mankind; and perhaps our frames could hardly bear much of it. If we had a keen vision and feeling of all ordinary human life, it would be like hearing the grass grow and the squirrel’s heart beat, and we should die of that roar which lies on the other side of silence. As it is, the quickest of us walk about well wadded with stupidity.
多萝西娅内心的惊讶并不是什么特别的事：许多年轻的灵魂在不协调的环境中被摔倒，在其中“找到自己的立足点”，而他们的长辈却忙着自己的事情。我也不能认为，当卡苏邦夫人在结婚六周后被发现哭泣时，情况将被视为悲剧。对于取代想象的新的现实未来，有些沮丧、有些胆怯并不罕见，我们也不指望人们会被不寻常的事情深深感动。悲剧的因素就在于频率这一事实，它还没有融入人类粗俗的情感中。也许我们的体格几乎无法承受其中的大部分。如果我们对一切普通人的生活有敏锐的洞察力和感受，就会像听到草的生长和松鼠的心跳一样，我们应该死于寂静另一边的那声咆哮。事实上，我们中走得最快的人都充满了愚蠢。

However, Dorothea was crying, and if she had been required to state the cause, she could only have done so in some such general words as I have already used: to have been driven to be more particular would have been like trying to give a history of the lights and shadows, for that new real future which was replacing the imaginary drew its material from the endless minutiae by which her view of Mr. Casaubon and her wifely relation, now that she was married to him, was gradually changing with the secret motion of a watch-hand from what it had been in her maiden dream. It was too early yet for her fully to recognize or at least admit the change, still more for her to have readjusted that devotedness which was so necessary a part of her mental life that she was almost sure sooner or later to recover it. Permanent rebellion, the disorder of a life without some loving reverent resolve, was not possible to her; but she was now in an interval when the very force of her nature heightened its confusion. In this way, the early months of marriage often are times of critical tumult—whether that of a shrimp-pool or of deeper waters—which afterwards subsides into cheerful peace.
然而，多萝西娅在哭，如果要求她说出原因，她只能用我已经用过的一些笼统的话来这样做：被迫变得更加具体就像试图给出一个光与影的历史，因为那个正在取代想象的新的真实未来从无尽的细节中汲取素材，通过这些细节，她对卡苏邦先生和她的妻子关系的看法，现在她嫁给了他，正在逐渐改变。手表指针的秘密动作，就像她少女梦中那样。对她来说，完全认识到或至少承认这种变化还为时过早，更重要的是，她已经重新调整了那种奉献精神，这种奉献精神是她精神生活的必要组成部分，她几乎肯定迟早会恢复这种奉献精神。永久的叛逆，没有某种爱的虔诚决心的生活的混乱，对她来说是不可能的。但她现在正处于一个间隙，她本性的力量加剧了她的混乱。就这样，婚姻的最初几个月往往是一段关键的骚乱时期——无论是虾池里的骚乱还是更深的水域里的骚乱——随后就会平息到愉快的平静中。

But was not Mr. Casaubon just as learned as before? Had his forms of expression changed, or his sentiments become less laudable? Oh waywardness of womanhood! did his chronology fail him, or his ability to state not only a theory but the names of those who held it; or his provision for giving the heads of any subject on demand? And was not Rome the place in all the world to give free play to such accomplishments? Besides, had not Dorothea’s enthusiasm especially dwelt on the prospect of relieving the weight and perhaps the sadness with which great tasks lie on him who has to achieve them?— And that such weight pressed on Mr. Casaubon was only plainer than before.
但卡苏邦先生不还是像以前一样博学吗？他的表达方式是否发生了变化，或者他的情感变得不那么值得称赞了？噢，女人的任性！是他的年代顺序失败了，还是他不仅没有能力陈述一种理论，而且还没有能力陈述持有该理论的人的名字？或者他根据需要提供任何主题的主题的规定？罗马不正是世界上可以自由发挥这些成就的地方吗？此外，多萝西娅的热情不是特别集中在减轻重担的前景上，也许是减轻那些必须完成这些任务的人所承受的悲伤吗？——而卡苏邦先生所承受的这种负担只是比以前更明显了。

All these are crushing questions; but whatever else remained the same, the light had changed, and you cannot find the pearly dawn at noonday. The fact is unalterable, that a fellow-mortal with whose nature you are acquainted solely through the brief entrances and exits of a few imaginative weeks called courtship, may, when seen in the continuity of married companionship, be disclosed as something better or worse than what you have preconceived, but will certainly not appear altogether the same. And it would be astonishing to find how soon the change is felt if we had no kindred changes to compare with it. To share lodgings with a brilliant dinner-companion, or to see your favorite politician in the Ministry, may bring about changes quite as rapid: in these cases too we begin by knowing little and believing much, and we sometimes end by inverting the quantities.
所有这些都是令人心碎的问题；但无论其他什么都保持不变，光线已经改变了，你找不到正午的珍珠般的黎明。事实是不可改变的，一个凡人的本性，你仅仅通过几个富有想象力的几周（称为求爱）的短暂进出而熟悉，当你从婚姻伴侣的连续性中观察时，可能会被揭露为比你更好或更坏的东西。你先入为主的想法，但肯定不会表现得完全一样。如果我们没有类似的变化与之比较，那么我们会惊讶地发现这种变化很快就会被感受到。与一位才华横溢的共进晚餐的同伴合住，或者去见见你最喜欢的部里政治家，可能会带来同样迅速的变化：在这些情况下，我们也是从知之甚少而相信很多，有时以颠倒数量而结束。

Still, such comparisons might mislead, for no man was more incapable of flashy make-believe than Mr. Casaubon: he was as genuine a character as any ruminant animal, and he had not actively assisted in creating any illusions about himself. How was it that in the weeks since her marriage, Dorothea had not distinctly observed but felt with a stifling depression, that the large vistas and wide fresh air which she had dreamed of finding in her husband’s mind were replaced by anterooms and winding passages which seemed to lead nowhither? I suppose it was that in courtship everything is regarded as provisional and preliminary, and the smallest sample of virtue or accomplishment is taken to guarantee delightful stores which the broad leisure of marriage will reveal. But the door-sill of marriage once crossed, expectation is concentrated on the present. Having once embarked on your marital voyage, it is impossible not to be aware that you make no way and that the sea is not within sight—that, in fact, you are exploring an enclosed basin.
尽管如此，这样的比较可能会产生误导，因为没有人比卡苏邦先生更不会做出浮华的虚构：他和任何反刍动物一样真实，而且他没有积极协助制造任何关于自己的幻想。结婚后的几个星期里，多萝西娅并没有清楚地观察到，但她却感到一种令人窒息的沮丧，她在丈夫心中梦想找到的广阔的景色和广阔的新鲜空气已经被前厅和蜿蜒的通道所取代，这些房间似乎无处可去？我想，在求爱过程中，一切都被视为临时的和初步的，最微小的美德或成就的样本都被用来保证婚姻的广泛闲暇所揭示的令人愉快的储备。但一旦跨过婚姻的门槛，期望就集中在当下。一旦踏上婚姻的航程，你不可能不知道自己没有前进的道路，也看不见大海——事实上，你正在探索一个封闭的盆地。

In their conversation before marriage, Mr. Casaubon had often dwelt on some explanation or questionable detail of which Dorothea did not see the bearing; but such imperfect coherence seemed due to the brokenness of their intercourse, and, supported by her faith in their future, she had listened with fervid patience to a recitation of possible arguments to be brought against Mr. Casaubon’s entirely new view of the Philistine god Dagon and other fish-deities, thinking that hereafter she should see this subject which touched him so nearly from the same high ground whence doubtless it had become so important to him. Again, the matter-of-course statement and tone of dismissal with which he treated what to her were the most stirring thoughts, was easily accounted for as belonging to the sense of haste and preoccupation in which she herself shared during their engagement. But now, since they had been in Rome, with all the depths of her emotion roused to tumultuous activity, and with life made a new problem by new elements, she had been becoming more and more aware, with a certain terror, that her mind was continually sliding into inward fits of anger and repulsion, or else into forlorn weariness. How far the judicious Hooker or any other hero of erudition would have been the same at Mr. Casaubon’s time of life, she had no means of knowing, so that he could not have the advantage of comparison; but her husband’s way of commenting on the strangely impressive objects around them had begun to affect her with a sort of mental shiver: he had perhaps the best intention of acquitting himself worthily, but only of acquitting himself. What was fresh to her mind was worn out to his; and such capacity of thought and feeling as had ever been stimulated in him by the general life of mankind had long shrunk to a sort of dried preparation, a lifeless embalmment of knowledge.
在他们婚前的谈话中，卡苏邦先生经常详述一些解释或有问题的细节，而多萝西娅却看不出其中的意义。但这种不完美的连贯性似乎是由于他们交往的中断造成的，而且，在她对他们未来的信心的支持下，她以热情的耐心聆听了对卡苏朋先生对非利士神达衮的全新观点的可能论证的背诵。和其他鱼神，认为今后她应该从同一高地看到这个几乎触动他的主题，毫无疑问，它对他来说变得如此重要。再一次，他对待她最激动人心的想法的理所当然的陈述和不屑一顾的语气，很容易被解释为属于她自己在订婚期间所共有的匆忙和全神贯注的感觉。但现在，自从他们来到了罗马，她内心深处的情感都被激起了激烈的活动，随着生活因新的因素而产生了新的问题，她越来越意识到，带着某种恐惧，她的思想不断地陷入内心的愤怒和厌恶，或者陷入绝望的疲倦。明智的胡克或任何其他博学的英雄在卡苏邦先生的一生中会在多大程度上相同，她无从得知，因此他无法获得比较的优势；但她丈夫对周围令人印象深刻的奇怪物体的评论方式已经开始让她产生一种精神上的颤抖：他也许最想表现出自己的价值，但只是表现出自己的表现。 她心目中新鲜的事物对他来说却已陈旧不堪。他的思想和感情的能力，曾经在人类的普遍生活中激发出来的，早已萎缩成一种干涸的准备，一种死气沉沉的知识防腐剂。

When he said, ‘Does this interest you, Dorothea? Shall we stay a little longer? I am ready to stay if you wish it,’—it seemed to her as if going or staying were alike dreary. Or, ‘Should you like to go to the Farnesina, Dorothea? It contains celebrated frescos designed or painted by Raphael, which most persons think it worth while to visit.’
当他说：‘多萝西娅，你对这个感兴趣吗？我们要再呆一会儿吗？如果你愿意的话，我已经准备好留下来了。”——在她看来，走或留都一样沉闷。或者，‘多萝西娅，你想去法尔内西纳吗？它包含拉斐尔设计或绘制的著名壁画，大多数人认为值得一游。

‘But do you care about them?’ was always Dorothea’s question.
“但是你关心他们吗？”这始终是多萝西娅的问题。

‘They are, I believe, highly esteemed. Some of them represent the fable of Cupid and Psyche, which is probably the romantic invention of a literary period, and cannot, I think, be reckoned as a genuine mythical product. But if you like these wall-paintings we can easily drive thither; and you ill then, I think, have seen the chief works of Raphael, any of which it were a pity to omit in a visit to Rome. He is the painter who has been held to combine the most complete grace of form with sublimity of expression. Such at least I have gathered to be the opinion of conoscenti.’
“我相信，他们非常受人尊敬。其中一些代表了丘比特和普赛克的寓言，这可能是文学时期的浪漫发明，我认为不能被视为真正的神话产物。但如果您喜欢这些壁画，我们可以轻松开车前往；我想，你一定已经看过拉斐尔的主要作品了，在访问罗马时错过其中任何一部作品都是一种遗憾。他是一位被认为将最完整的形式优雅与表现力的崇高结合起来的画家。至少我认为这是 conoscenti 的观点。

This kind of answer given in a measured official tone, as of a clergyman reading according to the rubric, did not help to justify the glories of the Eternal City, or to give her the hope that if she knew more about them the world would be joyously illuminated for her. There is hardly any contact more depressing to a young ardent creature than that of a mind in which years full of knowledge seem to have issued in a blank absence of interest or sympathy.
这种以一种有节制的官方语气给出的答案，就像一位牧师根据标题朗读的语气，无助于证明永恒之城的荣耀是正当的，也无助于给她带来希望，即如果她对它们了解得更多，世界就会变得更好。为她欢乐地照亮。对于一个热心的年轻人来说，没有什么接触比他的思想更令人沮丧的了，在他的思想中，多年的知识丰富似乎已经失去了兴趣或同情心。

On other subjects indeed Mr. Casaubon showed a tenacity of occupation and an eagerness which are usually regarded as the effect of enthusiasm, and Dorothea was anxious to follow this spontaneous direction of his thoughts, instead of being made to feel that she dragged him away from it. But she was gradually ceasing to expect with her former delightful confidence that she should see any wide opening where she followed him. Poor Mr. Casaubon himself was lost among small closets and winding stairs, and in an agitated dimness about the Cabeiri, or in an exposure of other mythologists’ ill-considered parallels, easily lost sight of any purpose which had prompted him to these labors. With his taper stuck before him he forgot the absence of windows, and in bitter manuscript remarks on other men’s notions about the solar deities, he had become indifferent to the sunlight.
在其他问题上，卡苏邦先生确实表现出了一种坚韧的专注力和一种热切的渴望，这通常被认为是热情的结果，多萝西娅急于追随他的这种自发的思想方向，而不是让他觉得她把他拖离了。它。但她逐渐不再像以前那样充满信心，认为她会在跟随他时看到任何广阔的机会。可怜的卡苏邦先生本人迷失在小壁橱和蜿蜒的楼梯中，沉浸在对卡贝里的焦躁昏暗中，或者暴露在其他神话学家考虑不周的相似之处中，很容易忘记促使他从事这些工作的任何目的。他面前插着蜡烛，他忘记了没有窗户，在手稿中对其他人关于太阳神观念的尖酸刻薄的评论中，他对阳光变得漠不关心。

These characteristics, fixed and unchangeable as bone in Mr. Casaubon, might have remained longer unfelt by Dorothea if she had been encouraged to pour forth her girlish and womanly feeling—if he would have held her hands between his and listened with the delight of tenderness and understanding to all the little histories which made up her experience, and would have given her the same sort of intimacy in return, so that the past life of each could be included in their mutual knowledge and affection—or if she could have fed her affection with those childlike caresses which are the bent of every sweet woman, who has begun by showering kisses on the hard pate of her bald doll, creating a happy soul within that woodenness from the wealth of her own love. That was Dorothea’s bent. With all her yearning to know what was afar from her and to be widely benignant, she had ardor enough for what was near, to have kissed Mr. Casaubon’s coat-sleeve, or to have caressed his shoe-latchet, if he would have made any other sign of acceptance than pronouncing her, with his unfailing propriety, to be of a most affectionate and truly feminine nature, indicating at the same time by politely reaching a chair for her that he regarded these manifestations as rather crude and startling. Having made his clerical toilet with due care in the morning, he was prepared only for those amenities of life which were suited to the well-adjusted stiff cravat of the period, and to a mind weighted with unpublished matter.
这些特征在卡苏朋先生身上像骨头一样固定不变，如果鼓励多萝西娅倾诉她的少女感和女人味——如果他能把她的双手放在他的中间，带着温柔的喜悦倾听她的声音，她可能会更长时间地感觉不到。和理解构成她经历的所有小历史，并且会给她同样的亲密感作为回报，这样每个人的过去的生活都可以包含在他们相互的知识和感情中——或者如果她可以喂养她的话孩子般的爱抚是每个可爱女人的爱好，她们从在她的秃头娃娃的硬头上亲吻开始，在她自己丰富的爱的木讷中创造一个快乐的灵魂。这就是多萝西娅的倾向。尽管她渴望了解远处的事物，并表现出广泛的仁慈，但她对近处的事物却有足够的热情，亲吻卡苏邦先生的衣袖，或者抚摸他的鞋带，如果他愿意的话除了用他一贯的礼节宣布她具有最深情和真正的女性气质之外，还有其他任何接受的迹象，同时礼貌地为她找到椅子，表明他认为这些表现相当粗鲁和令人震惊。早上，他小心翼翼地洗完办公室的厕所后，只准备了那些适合那个时期精心调整的僵硬领带和充满未发表内容的头脑的生活便利设施。

And by a sad contradiction Dorothea’s ideas and resolves seemed like melting ice floating and lost in the warm flood of which they had been but another form. She was humiliated to find herself a mere victim of feeling, as if she could know nothing except through that medium: all her strength was scattered in fits of agitation, of struggle, of despondency, and then again in visions of more complete renunciation, transforming all hard conditions into duty. Poor Dorothea! she was certainly troublesome—to herself chiefly; but this morning for the first time she had been troublesome to Mr. Casaubon.
令人悲伤的是，多萝西娅的想法和决心似乎就像融化的冰块漂浮在温暖的洪水中，而它们只是另一种形式。她感到羞辱地发现自己只是感情的受害者，仿佛除了通过这种媒介她什么都不知道：她所有的力量都分散在一阵阵的激动、挣扎、沮丧中，然后又分散在更彻底的放弃、转变的幻象中。一切艰苦条件都投入到岗位中。可怜的多萝西娅！她确实很麻烦——主要是对她自己来说。但今天早上，她第一次给卡苏邦先生带来麻烦。

She had begun, while they were taking coffee, with a determination to shake off what she inwardly called her selfishness, and turned a face all cheerful attention to her husband when he said, ‘My dear Dorothea, we must now think of all that is yet left undone, as a preliminary to our departure. I would fain have returned home earlier that we might have been at Lowick for the Christmas; but my inquiries here have been protracted beyond their anticipated period. I trust, however, that the time here has not been passed unpleasantly to you. Among the sights of Europe, that of Rome has ever been held one of the most striking and in some respects edifying. I well remember that I considered it an epoch in my life when I visited it for the first time; after the fall of Napoleon, an event which opened the Continent to travellers. Indeed I think it is one among several cities to which an extreme hyperbole has been applied— ‘See Rome and die:’ but in your case I would propose an emendation and say, See Rome as a bride, and live henceforth as a happy wife.’
当他们喝咖啡的时候，她就开始下定决心，要摆脱她内心所说的自私，当她丈夫说：“我亲爱的多萝西娅，我们现在必须考虑到这一切时，她满脸高兴地注视着他。”但尚未完成，作为我们离开的准备。我真想早点回家，这样我们就可以在洛威克过圣诞节了。但我在这里的询问已经超出了他们的预期期限。不过，我相信您在这里度过的时光并没有不愉快。在欧洲的景点中，罗马一直被认为是最引人注目、在某些方面最有启发性的景点之一。我清楚地记得，当我第一次参观它时，我认为这是我生命中的一个纪元；拿破仑垮台后，这一事件向旅行者开放了欧洲大陆。事实上，我认为它是几个被极端夸张的城市之一——“见罗马而死”：但就你的情况而言，我会提出一项修正，说：“把罗马视为新娘，从此作为幸福的妻子生活” .'

Mr. Casaubon pronounced this little speech with the most conscientious intention, blinking a little and swaying his head up and down, and concluding with a smile. He had not found marriage a rapturous state, but he had no idea of being anything else than an irreproachable husband, who would make a charming young woman as happy as she deserved to be.
卡苏邦先生以最认真的意图宣读了这段简短的演讲，他眨了眨眼睛，上下摇头，最后微笑着结束了讲话。他并不认为婚姻是一种令人欣喜若狂的状态，但他除了成为一个无可指责的丈夫之外，别无其他想法，他会让一个迷人的年轻女子得到她应得的幸福。

‘I hope you are thoroughly satisfied with our stay—I mean, with the result so far as your studies are concerned,’ said Dorothea, trying to keep her mind fixed on what most affected her husband.
“我希望你对我们的住宿感到非常满意——我的意思是，就你的学习而言，结果很满意，”多萝西娅说，试图把注意力集中在对她丈夫影响最大的事情上。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Casaubon, with that peculiar pitch of voice which makes the word half a negative. ‘I have been led farther than I had foreseen, and various subjects for annotation have presented themselves which, though I have no direct need of them, I could not pretermit. The task, notwithstanding the assistance of my amanuensis, has been a somewhat laborious one, but your society has happily prevented me from that too continuous prosecution of thought beyond the hours of study which has been the snare of my solitary life.’
“是的，”卡苏邦先生说，他的语调很奇特，使这个词带有半否定的意味。 “我被引导得比我预想的更远，各种需要注释的主题已经出现，尽管我没有直接需要它们，但我不能预先规定。尽管有我的抄写员的帮助，这项任务还是有点费力，但你们的社会很高兴地阻止了我在学习之外持续不断地追寻思想，这一直是我孤独生活的陷阱。

‘I am very glad that my presence has made any difference to you,’ said Dorothea, who had a vivid memory of evenings in which she had supposed that Mr. Casaubon’s mind had gone too deep during the day to be able to get to the surface again. I fear there was a little temper in her reply. ‘I hope when we get to Lowick, I shall be more useful to you, and be able to enter a little more into what interests you.’
“我很高兴我的存在给你带来了任何改变，”多萝西娅说，她对那些夜晚有着清晰的记忆，在那些夜晚，她认为卡苏邦先生白天的思绪太深了，无法理解事情的真相。再次浮出水面。我担心她的回答里有一点脾气。 “我希望当我们到达洛威克时，我会对你更有用，并且能够更多地了解你感兴趣的事情。”

‘Doubtless, my dear,’ said Mr. Casaubon, with a slight bow. ‘The notes I have here made will want sifting, and you can, if you please, extract them under my direction.’
“毫无疑问，亲爱的，”卡苏邦先生微微鞠了一躬说道。 “我在这里做的笔记需要筛选，如果你愿意的话，你可以在我的指导下提取它们。”

‘And all your notes,’ said Dorothea, whose heart had already burned within her on this subject, so that now she could not help speaking with her tongue. ‘All those rows of volumes—will you not now do what you used to speak of?—will you not make up your mind what part of them you will use, and begin to write the book which will make your vast knowledge useful to the world? I will write to your dictation, or I will copy and extract what you tell me: I can be of no other use.’ Dorothea, in a most unaccountable, darkly feminine manner, ended with a slight sob and eyes full of tears.
“还有你所有的笔记，”多萝西娅说，她的心已经在这个问题上燃烧起来，所以现在她忍不住用舌头说话。 “所有这些成排的书卷——你现在不会做你以前所说的吗？——你不会决定使用其中的哪一部分，并开始写这本书，这将使你的渊博知识对人们有用吗？”世界？我会按照你的口述写信，或者我会复制并摘录你告诉我的内容：我没有其他用处。”多萝西娅以一种最不负责任、阴暗女性的方式，以轻微的抽泣和眼里充满泪水结束。

The excessive feeling manifested would alone have been highly disturbing to Mr. Casaubon, but there were other reasons why Dorothea’s words were among the most cutting and irritating to him that she could have been impelled to use. She was as blind to his inward troubles as he to hers: she had not yet learned those hidden conflicts in her husband which claim our pity. She had not yet listened patiently to his heartbeats, but only felt that her own was beating violently. In Mr. Casaubon’s ear, Dorothea’s voice gave loud emphatic iteration to those muffled suggestions of consciousness which it was possible to explain as mere fancy, the illusion of exaggerated sensitiveness: always when such suggestions are unmistakably repeated from without, they are resisted as cruel and unjust. We are angered even by the full acceptance of our humiliating confessions—how much more by hearing in hard distinct syllables from the lips of a near observer, those confused murmurs which we try to call morbid, and strive against as if they were the oncoming of numbness! And this cruel outward accuser was there in the shape of a wife—nay, of a young bride, who, instead of observing his abundant pen-scratches and amplitude of paper with the uncritical awe of an elegant-minded canary-bird, seemed to present herself as a spy watching everything with a malign power of inference. Here, towards this particular point of the compass, Mr. Casaubon had a sensitiveness to match Dorothea’s, and an equal quickness to imagine more than the fact. He had formerly observed with approbation her capacity for worshipping the right object; he now foresaw with sudden terror that this capacity might be replaced by presumption, this worship by the most exasperating of all criticism,—that which sees vaguely a great many fine ends, and has not the least notion what it costs to reach them.
仅表现出过度的感情就会让卡苏邦先生感到非常不安，但还有其他原因可以解释为什么多萝西娅的话对他来说是最尖锐和最恼人的，她不得不使用这些话。她对他内心的烦恼视而不见，就像他对她内心的烦恼视而不见一样：她还没有了解到她丈夫身上隐藏的那些需要我们怜悯的冲突。她还没有耐心听他的心跳，只感觉自己的心跳得剧烈。在卡苏邦先生的耳边，多萝西娅的声音大声强调了那些含糊不清的意识暗示，这些暗示可以被解释为纯粹的幻想，是夸大敏感的幻觉：当这些暗示毫无疑问地从外部重复出现时，它们总是被视为残酷和残酷的。不公正。甚至当我们完全接受我们羞辱性的供词时，我们也会感到愤怒——更何况是当我们听到附近观察者的嘴唇发出生硬而清晰的音节时，那些我们试图称之为病态的混乱的低语，并努力抵制它们，就好像它们是即将来临的一样。麻木！而这个残酷的外在控诉者是以妻子的形式出现的——不，是一位年轻的新娘，她没有像一只优雅的金丝雀那样不加批判地敬畏地观察他丰富的钢笔划痕和大片纸张，而是似乎将自己呈现为一名间谍，以恶意的推理能力观察着一切。在这里，卡苏邦先生对罗盘的这一特定点有着与多萝西娅相媲美的敏感度，并且同样能快速地想象出比事实更多的东西。 他以前曾赞赏地观察过她崇拜正确对象的能力。他现在突然恐惧地预见到，这种能力可能会被自以为是所取代，这种崇拜可能会被所有批评中最令人恼火的批评所取代——这种批评隐约看到了许多美好的目标，却丝毫不知道实现这些目标需要付出什么代价。

For the first time since Dorothea had known him, Mr. Casaubon’s face had a quick angry flush upon it.
自从多萝西娅认识他以来，卡苏邦先生的脸上第一次出现了愤怒的红晕。

‘My love,’ he said, with irritation reined in by propriety, ‘you may rely upon me for knowing the times and the seasons, adapted to the different stages of a work which is not to be measured by the facile conjectures of ignorant onlookers. It had been easy for me to gain a temporary effect by a mirage of baseless opinion; but it is ever the trial of the scrupulous explorer to be saluted with the impatient scorn of chatterers who attempt only the smallest achievements, being indeed equipped for no other. And it were well if all such could be admonished to discriminate judgments of which the true subject-matter lies entirely beyond their reach, from those of which the elements may be compassed by a narrow and superficial survey.’
“我的爱人，”他说，带着礼节所抑制的愤怒，“你可以相信我了解时间和季节，适应一部作品的不同阶段，这不能用无知的旁观者轻率的猜测来衡量。对我来说，毫无根据的幻想很容易获得暂时的效果。但是，对一丝不苟的探险家来说，受到那些喋喋不休的人的不耐烦的蔑视始终是一种考验，他们只尝试最小的成就，实际上没有准备好做其他事情。如果所有这些人都能够受到警告，不要做出歧视性的判断，而真正的主题完全超出了他们的能力范围，而其中的要素可以通过狭隘和肤浅的调查来涵盖，那就太好了。

This speech was delivered with an energy and readiness quite unusual with Mr. Casaubon. It was not indeed entirely an improvisation, but had taken shape in inward colloquy, and rushed out like the round grains from a fruit when sudden heat cracks it. Dorothea was not only his wife: she was a personification of that shallow world which surrounds the appreciated or desponding author.
卡苏邦先生以一种不同寻常的精力和准备发表了这篇演讲。这确实不完全是即兴创作，而是在内心的对话中成形的，就像突然受热破裂的水果中的圆粒一样，冲了出来。多萝西娅不仅是他的妻子：她还是围绕着这位欣赏或沮丧的作家的浅薄世界的化身。

Dorothea was indignant in her turn. Had she not been repressing everything in herself except the desire to enter into some fellowship with her husband’s chief interests?
多萝西娅也很愤怒。难道她没有压抑自己内心的一切，除了与丈夫的主要利益建立某种联系的愿望吗？

‘My judgment WAS a very superficial one—such as I am capable of forming,’ she answered, with a prompt resentment, that needed no rehearsal. ‘You showed me the rows of notebooks—you have often spoken of them—you have often said that they wanted digesting. But I never heard you speak of the writing that is to be published. Those were very simple facts, and my judgment went no farther. I only begged you to let me be of some good to you.’
“我的判断是非常肤浅的——就我所能做出的判断而言，”她回答道，语气里立刻带着怨恨，不需要排练。 “你给我看了一排排笔记本——你经常提到它们——你经常说它们需要消化。但我从未听你谈论过即将出版的作品。这些都是非常简单的事实，我的判断不再进一步。我只是求你让我为你做一些好事。

Dorothea rose to leave the table and Mr. Casaubon made no reply, taking up a letter which lay beside him as if to reperuse it. Both were shocked at their mutual situation—that each should have betrayed anger towards the other. If they had been at home, settled at Lowick in ordinary life among their neighbors, the clash would have been less embarrassing: but on a wedding journey, the express object of which is to isolate two people on the ground that they are all the world to each other, the sense of disagreement is, to say the least, confounding and stultifying. To have changed your longitude extensively and placed yourselves in a moral solitude in order to have small explosions, to find conversation difficult and to hand a glass of water without looking, can hardly be regarded as satisfactory fulfilment even to the toughest minds. To Dorothea’s inexperienced sensitiveness, it seemed like a catastrophe, changing all prospects; and to Mr. Casaubon it was a new pain, he never having been on a wedding journey before, or found himself in that close union which was more of a subjection than he had been able to imagine, since this charming young bride not only obliged him to much consideration on her behalf (which he had sedulously given), but turned out to be capable of agitating him cruelly just where he most needed soothing. Instead of getting a soft fence against the cold, shadowy, unapplausive audience of his life, had he only given it a more substantial presence?
多萝西娅起身离开餐桌，卡苏邦先生没有回答，拿起放在他旁边的一封信，好像要重读一遍。两人都对自己的处境感到震惊——每个人都应该向对方表达愤怒。如果他们在家里，在洛威克和邻居一起过着平常的生活，那么冲突就不会那么尴尬了：但在婚礼之旅中，其明确的目的是孤立两个人，因为他们是整个世界对于彼此来说，分歧的感觉至少可以说是令人困惑和愚蠢的。为了发生小规模的爆炸、感到谈话困难、不看就递一杯水，而大幅改变你的经度，让自己陷入道德孤独，即使对于最坚强的头脑来说，也很难被视为令人满意的满足。对于多萝西娅缺乏经验的敏感来说，这似乎是一场灾难，改变了所有的前景。对卡苏邦先生来说，这是一种新的痛苦，他以前从未踏上过婚礼之旅，也没有发现自己处在那种亲密的结合中，这比他想象的还要服从，因为这位迷人的年轻新娘不仅有义务他为她付出了很多考虑（这是他刻意给予的），但事实证明，他能够在他最需要安慰的地方残酷地激怒他。他没有给他生活中那些冷酷、阴暗、不喝彩的观众设置一道软篱笆，而是给了他们一个更实质性的存在吗？

Neither of them felt it possible to speak again at present. To have reversed a previous arrangement and declined to go out would have been a show of persistent anger which Dorothea’s conscience shrank from, seeing that she already began to feel herself guilty. However just her indignation might be, her ideal was not to claim justice, but to give tenderness. So when the carriage came to the door, she drove with Mr. Casaubon to the Vatican, walked with him through the stony avenue of inscriptions, and when she parted with him at the entrance to the Library, went on through the Museum out of mere listlessness as to what was around her. She had not spirit to turn round and say that she would drive anywhere. It was when Mr. Casaubon was quitting her that Naumann had first seen her, and he had entered the long gallery of sculpture at the same time with her; but here Naumann had to await Ladislaw with whom he was to settle a bet of champagne about an enigmatical mediaeval-looking figure there. After they had examined the figure, and had walked on finishing their dispute, they had parted, Ladislaw lingering behind while Naumann had gone into the Hall of Statues where he again saw Dorothea, and saw her in that brooding abstraction which made her pose remarkable. She did not really see the streak of sunlight on the floor more than she saw the statues: she was inwardly seeing the light of years to come in her own home and over the English fields and elms and hedge-bordered highroads; and feeling that the way in which they might be filled with joyful devotedness was not so clear to her as it had been. But in Dorothea’s mind there was a current into which all thought and feeling were apt sooner or later to flow—the reaching forward of the whole consciousness towards the fullest truth, the least partial good. There was clearly something better than anger and despondency.
此刻两人都觉得无法再说话了。改变先前的安排并拒绝外出将是一种持续愤怒的表现，多萝西娅的良心会因此而退缩，因为她已经开始感到内疚了。不管她的愤慨如何，她的理想并不是伸张正义，而是给予温柔。因此，当马车到了门口，她就和卡苏邦先生一起开往梵蒂冈，和他一起走过布满铭文的石头大道，当她在图书馆门口与他告别时，继续穿过博物馆，走出了教堂。对她周围的事物感到无精打采。她没有勇气转身说她要开车去任何地方。瑙曼第一次见到她，是在卡苏邦先生离开她的时候，他和她同时走进了长长的雕塑长廊。但瑙曼必须在这里等待拉迪斯瓦夫，他要与拉迪斯瓦夫打赌，打赌那里有一个神秘的中世纪人物。他们检查了这个人物，并继续走完争论后，他们分手了，拉迪斯瓦夫在后面徘徊，而瑙曼走进了雕像大厅，在那里他再次看到了多萝西娅，看到她处于那种沉思的抽象状态，这使得她的姿势引人注目。她并没有真正看到地板上的阳光，就像她看到的雕像一样：她在内心看到了未来岁月的光芒，照亮了自己的家，照亮了英国的田野、榆树和树篱环绕的公路；她觉得，如何让他们充满快乐的忠诚，对她来说并不像以前那么清楚了。 但在多萝西娅的心中，有一股潮流，所有的思想和感觉迟早都会流入其中——整个意识朝着最完整的真理、最不偏颇的善前进。显然有比愤怒和沮丧更好的事情。

CHAPTER XXI
第二十一章

‘Hire facounde eke full womanly and plain,
“雇用充满女性气质和朴素的面孔，

No contrefeted termes had she
她没有任何矛盾的术语

To semen wise.’
就精液而言。’

—CHAUCER.
——乔叟。

It was in that way Dorothea came to be sobbing as soon as she was securely alone. But she was presently roused by a knock at the door, which made her hastily dry her eyes before saying, ‘Come in.’ Tantripp had brought a card, and said that there was a gentleman waiting in the lobby. The courier had told him that only Mrs. Casaubon was at home, but he said he was a relation of Mr. Casaubon’s: would she see him?
就这样，多萝西娅一安全地独自一人就开始抽泣。但不久，她就被敲门声惊醒，急忙擦干眼睛，说道：“请进。”坦特里普带来了一张卡片，说有一位绅士在大厅等候。快递员告诉他，只有卡苏邦夫人在家，但他说自己是卡苏邦先生的亲戚：她会见他吗？

‘Yes,’ said Dorothea, without pause; ‘show him into the salon.’ Her chief impressions about young Ladislaw were that when she had seen him at Lowick she had been made aware of Mr. Casaubon’s generosity towards him, and also that she had been interested in his own hesitation about his career. She was alive to anything that gave her an opportunity for active sympathy, and at this moment it seemed as if the visit had come to shake her out of her self-absorbed discontent—to remind her of her husband’s goodness, and make her feel that she had now the right to be his helpmate in all kind deeds. She waited a minute or two, but when she passed into the next room there were just signs enough that she had been crying to make her open face look more youthful and appealing than usual. She met Ladislaw with that exquisite smile of good-will which is unmixed with vanity, and held out her hand to him. He was the elder by several years, but at that moment he looked much the younger, for his transparent complexion flushed suddenly, and he spoke with a shyness extremely unlike the ready indifference of his manner with his male companion, while Dorothea became all the calmer with a wondering desire to put him at ease.
“是的，”多萝西娅没有停顿地说。 “带他进沙龙。”她对年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫的主要印象是，当她在洛威克见到他时，她就意识到卡苏邦先生对他的慷慨，而且她对他自己对职业生涯的犹豫不决很感兴趣。 。她对任何能让她有机会表达积极同情的事情都很感兴趣，而此时此刻，这次来访似乎是要把她从自我陶醉的不满中摇出来——提醒她丈夫的善良，让她觉得她现在有权在一切善事上成为他的助手。她等了一两分钟，但当她走进隔壁房间时，有足够的迹象表明她曾哭过，使她那张开放的脸看起来比平时更年轻、更有吸引力。她带着不带虚荣的善意的精致微笑迎接拉迪斯瓦夫，并向他伸出了手。他比他年长了好几岁，但此刻却显得年轻了许多，透明的脸色突然涨得通红，说话的羞涩与他对男伴时那种冷漠的态度截然不同，而多萝西娅则显得更加平静。带着一种让他放松的好奇愿望。

‘I was not aware that you and Mr. Casaubon were in Rome, until this morning, when I saw you in the Vatican Museum,’ he said. ‘I knew you at once—but—I mean, that I concluded Mr. Casaubon’s address would be found at the Poste Restante, and I was anxious to pay my respects to him and you as early as possible.’
“我不知道你和卡苏邦先生在罗马，直到今天早上我在梵蒂冈博物馆见到你，”他说。 “我立刻就认识了你——但是——我的意思是，我断定卡苏邦先生的地址可以在《归国邮局》找到，我急于尽快向他和你表示敬意。”

‘Pray sit down. He is not here now, but he will be glad to hear of you, I am sure,’ said Dorothea, seating herself unthinkingly between the fire and the light of the tall window, and pointing to a chair opposite, with the quietude of a benignant matron. The signs of girlish sorrow in her face were only the more striking. ‘Mr. Casaubon is much engaged; but you will leave your address— will you not?—and he will write to you.’
‘请坐下。他现在不在这里，但我相信他会很高兴听到你的消息，”多萝西娅说道，她不假思索地坐在火和高窗的光之间，指着对面的一把椅子，语气平静。仁慈的女主人。她脸上的少女悲伤的迹象更加引人注目。 '先生。卡索邦非常忙碌。但你会留下你的地址——你不会吗？——他就会写信给你。

‘You are very good,’ said Ladislaw, beginning to lose his diffidence in the interest with which he was observing the signs of weeping which had altered her face. ‘My address is on my card. But if you will allow me I will call again to-morrow at an hour when Mr. Casaubon is likely to be at home.’
“你很好，”拉迪斯瓦夫说，他开始失去自信，因为他正在饶有兴趣地观察改变她面容的哭泣迹象。 “我的地址在我的卡上。但如果您允许的话，我会在明天卡苏邦先生可能在家的时候再次打电话。”

‘He goes to read in the Library of the Vatican every day, and you can hardly see him except by an appointment. Especially now. We are about to leave Rome, and he is very busy. He is usually away almost from breakfast till dinner. But I am sure he will wish you to dine with us.’
“他每天都去梵蒂冈图书馆读书，除非预约，否则你很难见到他。尤其是现在。我们即将离开罗马，他很忙。他通常从早餐到晚餐几乎都不在。但我相信他会希望你和我们一起吃饭。”

Will Ladislaw was struck mute for a few moments. He had never been fond of Mr. Casaubon, and if it had not been for the sense of obligation, would have laughed at him as a Bat of erudition. But the idea of this dried-up pedant, this elaborator of small explanations about as important as the surplus stock of false antiquities kept in a vendor’s back chamber, having first got this adorable young creature to marry him, and then passing his honeymoon away from her, groping after his mouldy futilities (Will was given to hyperbole)— this sudden picture stirred him with a sort of comic disgust: he was divided between the impulse to laugh aloud and the equally unseasonable impulse to burst into scornful invective.
威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫沉默了一会儿。他向来不喜欢卡苏邦先生，如果不是出于义务感，他一定会嘲笑他是博学的蝙蝠。但是，这个枯燥的学究的想法，这个对小问题的详细解释者的想法，与小贩后室中保存的假古物的剩余库存一样重要，首先让这个可爱的年轻生物嫁给了他，然后从他的蜜月中度过了她，摸索着他发霉的徒劳（威尔惯于夸张）——这突如其来的画面让他产生了一种滑稽的厌恶：他既想大声笑，又想爆发出同样不合时宜的轻蔑谩骂。

For an instant he felt that the struggle, was causing a queer contortion of his mobile features, but with a good effort he resolved it into nothing more offensive than a merry smile.
有那么一瞬间，他觉得这种挣扎让他的活动特征出现了一种奇怪的扭曲，但经过一番努力，他将其化解为除了快乐的微笑之外，没有什么比这更令人反感的了。

Dorothea wondered; but the smile was irresistible, and shone back from her face too. Will Ladislaw’s smile was delightful, unless you were angry with him beforehand: it was a gush of inward light illuminating the transparent skin as well as the eyes, and playing about every curve and line as if some Ariel were touching them with a new charm, and banishing forever the traces of moodiness. The reflection of that smile could not but have a little merriment in it too, even under dark eyelashes still moist, as Dorothea said inquiringly, ‘Something amuses you?’
多萝西娅想知道；但笑容是无法抗拒的，也从她的脸上绽放出来。威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的微笑是令人愉快的，除非你事先对他生气：那是一股内在的光芒，照亮了透明的皮肤和眼睛，玩弄着每一条曲线和线条，仿佛某个爱丽儿正在用一种新的魅力触摸它们，并永远消除喜怒无常的痕迹。那个微笑的倒映中也不能不带有一点快乐，即使在黑色的睫毛下仍然湿润，正如多萝西娅询问的那样，“有什么让你开心的吗？”

‘Yes,’ said Will, quick in finding resources. ‘I am thinking of the sort of figure I cut the first time I saw you, when you annihilated my poor sketch with your criticism.’
“是的，”威尔说，很快就找到了资源。 “我在想我第一次见到你时的样子，当时你用你的批评消灭了我可怜的草图。”

‘My criticism?’ said Dorothea, wondering still more. ‘Surely not. I always feel particularly ignorant about painting.’
“我的批评？”多萝西娅问道，心里更加疑惑。 ‘当然不是。我总觉得自己对绘画特别无知。

‘I suspected you of knowing so much, that you knew how to say just what was most cutting. You said—I dare say you don’t remember it as I do— that the relation of my sketch to nature was quite hidden from you. At least, you implied that.’ Will could laugh now as well as smile.
“我怀疑你知道得太多了，知道如何说出最尖锐的话。你说过——我敢说你不像我一样记得——我的素描与自然的关系对你来说是相当隐秘的。至少，你暗示了这一点。”威尔现在可以笑了，也可以微笑了。

‘That was really my ignorance,’ said Dorothea, admiring
“这真是我的无知。”多萝西娅赞叹道。

Will’s good-humor. ‘I must have said so only because I never could see any beauty in the pictures which my uncle told me all judges thought very fine. And I have gone about with just the same ignorance in Rome. There are comparatively few paintings that I can really enjoy. At first when I enter a room where the walls are covered with frescos, or with rare pictures, I feel a kind of awe—like a child present at great ceremonies where there are grand robes and processions; I feel myself in the presence of some higher life than my own. But when I begin to examine the pictures one by on the life goes out of them, or else is something violent and strange to me. It must be my own dulness. I am seeing so much all at once, and not understanding half of it. That always makes one feel stupid. It is painful to be told that anything is very fine and not be able to feel that it is fine—something like being blind, while people talk of the sky.’
威尔很幽默。 “我之所以这么说，只是因为我从来没有在那些我叔叔告诉我所有评委都认为很好的照片中看到任何美感。我在罗马也同样无知。我真正能欣赏的画相对较少。起初，当我走进一个墙壁上挂满壁画或罕见图画的房间时，我感到一种敬畏——就像一个孩子参加盛大的仪式，那里有盛大的长袍和游行队伍；我感觉自己面临着比我自己更高的生命。但当我开始一张一张地检查这些照片时，它们的生命力就消失了，或者对我来说是一种暴力和奇怪的东西。这一定是我自己的愚钝。我一下子看到了这么多，却看不懂其中的一半。这总是让人觉得自己很愚蠢。被告知一切都很好，但却无法感觉到它很好，这是令人痛苦的——就像当人们谈论天空时却失明一样。

‘Oh, there is a great deal in the feeling for art which must be acquired,’ said Will. (It was impossible now to doubt the directness of Dorothea’s confession.) ‘Art is an old language with a great many artificial affected styles, and sometimes the chief pleasure one gets out of knowing them is the mere sense of knowing. I enjoy the art of all sorts here immensely; but I suppose if I could pick my enjoyment to pieces I should find it made up of many different threads. There is something in daubing a little one’s self, and having an idea of the process.’
“哦，对艺术的感觉有很多是必须获得的，”威尔说。 （现在不可能怀疑多萝西娅坦白的直接性。）“艺术是一种古老的语言，有许多人为的矫揉造作的风格，有时，人们从了解它们中获得的主要乐趣就是纯粹的了解感。我非常喜欢这里的各种艺术。但我想，如果我能把我的乐趣分解成碎片，我会发现它是由许多不同的线索组成的。涂抹小孩子的自我并了解这个过程是有好处的。

‘You mean perhaps to be a painter?’ said Dorothea, with a new direction of interest. ‘You mean to make painting your profession? Mr. Casaubon will like to hear that you have chosen a profession.’
“你的意思是也许成为一名画家？”多萝西娅说，有了新的兴趣方向。 ‘你的意思是以绘画为职业吗？卡苏邦先生很高兴听到您选择了职业。

‘No, oh no,’ said Will, with some coldness. ‘I have quite made up my mind against it. It is too one-sided a life. I have been seeing a great deal of the German artists here: I travelled from Frankfort with one of them. Some are fine, even brilliant fellows— but I should not like to get into their way of looking at the world entirely from the studio point of view.’
“不，哦不，”威尔冷冷地说。 ‘我已经下定决心反对它了。这实在是一种过于片面的生活。我在这里见到了很多德国艺术家：我和其中一位一起从法兰克福出发。有些人很好，甚至很聪明，但我不想完全从工作室的角度去理解他们看待世界的方式。

‘That I can understand,’ said Dorothea, cordially. ‘And in Rome it seems as if there were so many things which are more wanted in the world than pictures. But if you have a genius for painting, would it not be right to take that as a guide? Perhaps you might do better things than these—or different, so that there might not be so many pictures almost all alike in the same place.’
“我能理解，”多萝西娅亲切地说。 “在罗马，世界上似乎有很多东西比图片更受欢迎。但如果你有绘画天赋，以此为指导不好吗？也许你可以做比这些更好的事情，或者不同的事情，这样就不会在同一个地方出现那么多几乎完全相同的照片。

There was no mistaking this simplicity, and Will was won by it into frankness. ‘A man must have a very rare genius to make changes of that sort. I am afraid mine would not carry me even to the pitch of doing well what has been done already, at least not so well as to make it worth while. And I should never succeed in anything by dint of drudgery. If things don’t come easily to me I never get them.’
毫无疑问，这种简单性让威尔变得坦率。 “一个人必须具有非常罕见的天才才能做出这种改变。我担心我的想法甚至无法让我把已经做过的事情做好，至少不值得去做。我永远不应该依靠苦差事来取得任何成功。如果事情对我来说不容易，我就永远不会得到它们。

‘I have heard Mr. Casaubon say that he regrets your want of patience,’ said Dorothea, gently. She was rather shocked at this mode of taking all life as a holiday.
“我听卡苏邦先生说过，他对你缺乏耐心感到遗憾。”多萝西娅温柔地说。她对这种把所有的生活都当作假期的方式感到相当震惊。

‘Yes, I know Mr. Casaubon’s opinion. He and I differ.’
“是的，我知道卡苏邦先生的意见。他和我不同。

The slight streak of contempt in this hasty reply offended Dorothea. She was all the more susceptible about Mr. Casaubon because of her morning’s trouble.
这句仓促的回答中带着一丝轻蔑，冒犯了多萝西娅。由于早上的麻烦，她对卡苏邦先生更加敏感。

‘Certainly you differ,’ she said, rather proudly. ‘I did not think of comparing you: such power of persevering devoted labor as Mr. Casaubon’s is not common.’
“当然你不同意，”她相当自豪地说。 “我没想过要和你比较：像卡苏邦先生那样坚持不懈地投入劳动的力量并不常见。”

Will saw that she was offended, but this only gave an additional impulse to the new irritation of his latent dislike towards Mr. Casaubon. It was too intolerable that Dorothea should be worshipping this husband: such weakness in a woman is pleasant to no man but the husband in question. Mortals are easily tempted to pinch the life out of their neighbor’s buzzing glory, and think that such killing is no murder.
威尔看出她被冒犯了，但这只会进一步刺激他对卡苏邦先生潜在的厌恶。多萝西娅竟然崇拜这样的丈夫，这实在是令人难以忍受：女人的这种软弱，除了她的丈夫之外，没有一个男人会感到高兴。凡人很容易想从邻居喧嚣的荣耀中夺走生命，并认为这种杀戮不是谋杀。

‘No, indeed,’ he answered, promptly. ‘And therefore it is a pity that it should be thrown away, as so much English scholarship is, for want of knowing what is being done by the rest of the world. If Mr. Casaubon read German he would save himself a great deal of trouble.’
“不，确实如此，”他立即回答。 “因此，遗憾的是，由于不了解世界其他地方正在做什么，它应该被丢弃，就像许多英国学术成果一样。如果卡苏邦先生会读德语，他就会省去很多麻烦。

‘I do not understand you,’ said Dorothea, startled and anxious.
“我不明白你的意思，”多萝西娅惊讶而焦虑地说。

‘I merely mean,’ said Will, in an offhand way, ‘that the Germans have taken the lead in historical inquiries, and they laugh at results which are got by groping about in woods with a pocket-compass while they have made good roads. When I was with Mr. Casaubon I saw that he deafened himself in that direction: it was almost against his will that he read a Latin treatise written by a German. I was very sorry.’
“我的意思只是，”威尔随口说道，“德国人在历史调查方面处于领先地位，他们嘲笑那些在修好了道路的情况下用袖珍指南针在树林里摸索所得到的结果。 。当我和卡苏邦先生在一起时，我看到他在这个方向上震耳欲聋：他读了一篇德国人写的拉丁文论文几乎是违背他的意愿的。我很抱歉。

Will only thought of giving a good pinch that would annihilate that vaunted laboriousness, and was unable to imagine the mode in which Dorothea would be wounded. Young Mr. Ladislaw was not at all deep himself in German writers; but very little achievement is required in order to pity another man’s shortcomings.
威尔只想好好捏一下，消除那份自吹自擂的辛苦，却无法想象多萝西娅会以何种方式受伤。年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫先生对德国作家的研究并不深。但只要有很少的成就，就可以怜悯另一个人的缺点。

Poor Dorothea felt a pang at the thought that the labor of her husband’s life might be void, which left her no energy to spare for the question whether this young relative who was so much obliged to him ought not to have repressed his observation. She did not even speak, but sat looking at her hands, absorbed in the piteousness of that thought.
可怜的多萝西娅一想到她丈夫毕生的劳动可能会白费，她就感到一阵痛苦，这让她没有精力思考这个对他如此感激的年轻亲戚是否不应该压抑他的观察。她甚至没有说话，只是坐在那儿看着自己的双手，全神贯注于这种悲惨的想法。

Will, however, having given that annihilating pinch, was rather ashamed, imagining from Dorothea’s silence that he had offended her still more; and having also a conscience about plucking the tail-feathers from a benefactor.
然而，威尔在经历了那毁灭性的一掐之后，感到相当羞愧，从多萝西娅的沉默中想象出他更加冒犯了她。还要有良心去拔掉恩人的尾羽。

‘I regretted it especially,’ he resumed, taking the usual course from detraction to insincere eulogy, ‘because of my gratitude and respect towards my cousin. It would not signify so much in a man whose talents and character were less distinguished.’
“我特别后悔，”他继续说道，按照通常的方式从贬低转向不真诚的悼词，“因为我对我表弟的感激和尊重。对于一个才华和品格都不那么出众的人来说，这意义不大。

Dorothea raised her eyes, brighter than usual with excited feeling, and said in her saddest recitative, ‘How I wish I had learned German when I was at Lausanne! There were plenty of German teachers. But now I can be of no use.’
多萝西娅抬起眼睛，比平常更明亮，心情激动，用她最悲伤的朗诵声说道：“我多么希望我在洛桑的时候就学会了德语！”有很多德语老师。但现在我已经没有用了。

There was a new light, but still a mysterious light, for Will in Dorothea’s last words. The question how she had come to accept Mr. Casaubon—which he had dismissed when he first saw her by saying that she must be disagreeable in spite of appearances—was not now to be answered on any such short and easy method. Whatever else she might be, she was not disagreeable. She was not coldly clever and indirectly satirical, but adorably simple and full of feeling. She was an angel beguiled. It would be a unique delight to wait and watch for the melodious fragments in which her heart and soul came forth so directly and ingenuously. The AEolian harp again came into his mind.
在多萝西娅的遗言中，威尔看到了一道新的光芒，但仍然是一道神秘的光芒。她是如何接受卡苏朋先生的这个问题——卡苏朋先生第一次见到她时就驳回了这个问题，说她尽管外表看起来一定很令人讨厌——现在却无法用任何如此简短和容易的方法来回答。不管她是什么样的人，她都不会令人讨厌。她并不冷酷聪明，也不间接讽刺，而是简单得可爱，充满感情。她是一个被迷惑的天使。等待和观看那些她的内心和灵魂如此直接和纯真的悠扬片段，将是一种独特的乐趣。风神竖琴再次出现在他的脑海中。

She must have made some original romance for herself in this marriage. And if Mr. Casaubon had been a dragon who had carried her off to his lair with his talons simply and without legal forms, it would have been an unavoidable feat of heroism to release her and fall at her feet. But he was something more unmanageable than a dragon: he was a benefactor with collective society at his back, and he was at that moment entering the room in all the unimpeachable correctness of his demeanor, while Dorothea was looking animated with a newly roused alarm and regret, and Will was looking animated with his admiring speculation about her feelings.
她一定在这段婚姻中为自己创造了一些原创的浪漫。如果卡苏邦先生是一条龙，在没有合法形式的情况下，简单地用爪子把她带到了自己的巢穴，那么释放她并倒在她脚下将是不可避免的英雄主义壮举。但他是比龙更难以管理的东西：他是一个有集体社会支持的恩人，此刻他正以无可挑剔的正确举止走进房间，而多萝西娅则因新引起的警报而显得生气勃勃，遗憾的是，威尔看上去很兴奋，对她的感受进行了令人钦佩的猜测。

Mr. Casaubon felt a surprise which was quite unmixed with pleasure, but he did not swerve from his usual politeness of greeting, when Will rose and explained his presence. Mr. Casaubon was less happy than usual, and this perhaps made him look all the dimmer and more faded; else, the effect might easily have been produced by the contrast of his young cousin’s appearance. The first impression on seeing Will was one of sunny brightness, which added to the uncertainty of his changing expression. Surely, his very features changed their form, his jaw looked sometimes large and sometimes small; and the little ripple in his nose was a preparation for metamorphosis. When he turned his head quickly his hair seemed to shake out light, and some persons thought they saw decided genius in this coruscation. Mr. Casaubon, on the contrary, stood rayless.
卡苏邦先生感到惊讶，但并没有夹杂着喜悦，但当威尔起身解释他的存在时，他并没有放弃他一贯的礼貌问候。卡苏邦先生不像平时那么高兴，这也许使他看上去更加黯淡、憔悴。不然的话，这种效果很容易通过他表弟的外表对比来产生。看到威尔的第一印象是阳光明媚，这增加了他不断变化的表情的不确定性。当然，他的五官也发生了变化，他的下巴看起来有时大，有时小；他鼻子里的小波纹是变态的准备。当他快速转过头时，他的头发似乎散发出光芒，有些人认为他们在这种光芒中看到了决定性的天才。相反，卡苏邦先生站着，没有一丝光亮。

As Dorothea’s eyes were turned anxiously on her husband she was perhaps not insensible to the contrast, but it was only mingled with other causes in making her more conscious of that new alarm on his behalf which was the first stirring of a pitying tenderness fed by the realities of his lot and not by her own dreams. Yet it was a source of greater freedom to her that Will was there; his young equality was agreeable, and also perhaps his openness to conviction. She felt an immense need of some one to speak to, and she had never before seen any one who seemed so quick and pliable, so likely to understand everything.
当多萝西娅的眼睛焦急地转向她的丈夫时，她也许对这种对比没有感觉不到，但它只是与其他原因混合在一起，使她更加意识到他的新警报，这是由丈夫喂养的怜悯温柔的第一次激起。他的命运的现实，而不是她自己的梦想。然而，威尔的存在给她带来了更大的自由。他年轻时的平等是令人愉快的，也许他对信念的开放态度也是令人愉快的。她感到非常需要有人倾诉，而她以前从未见过任何一个人看起来如此敏捷和柔韧，如此容易理解一切。

Mr. Casaubon gravely hoped that Will was passing his time profitably as well as pleasantly in Rome—had thought his intention was to remain in South Germany—but begged him to come and dine to-morrow, when he could converse more at large: at present he was somewhat weary. Ladislaw understood, and accepting the invitation immediately took his leave.
卡苏邦先生真诚地希望威尔在罗马度过了愉快而有益的时光——他原以为他的意图是留在德国南部——但恳求他明天来吃晚饭，那时他可以进行更多的交谈：现在他有些疲倦了。拉迪斯瓦夫明白了，接受邀请后立即告辞。

Dorothea’s eyes followed her husband anxiously, while he sank down wearily at the end of a sofa, and resting his elbow supported his head and looked on the floor. A little flushed, and with bright eyes, she seated herself beside him, and said—
多萝西娅的目光焦急地注视着她的丈夫，而他疲倦地倒在沙发尽头，用肘部支撑着头，看着地板。她脸色有些红，眼睛明亮，在他身边坐下，说道——

‘Forgive me for speaking so hastily to you this morning. I was wrong. I fear I hurt you and made the day more burdensome.’
“请原谅我今天早上这么匆忙地跟你说话。我错了。我担心我伤害了你，让这一天变得更加沉重。

‘I am glad that you feel that, my dear,’ said Mr. Casaubon. He spoke quietly and bowed. his head a little, but there was still an uneasy feeling in his eyes as he looked at her.
“我很高兴你有这种感觉，亲爱的，”卡苏邦先生说。他低声说话，鞠了一躬。他的头微微有些倾斜，但看向她的眼神里还是有一丝不安的感觉。

‘But you do forgive me?’ said Dorothea, with a quick sob. In her need for some manifestation of feeling she was ready to exaggerate her own fault. Would not love see returning penitence afar off, and fall on its neck and kiss it?
“但是你真的原谅我了吗？”多萝西娅抽泣着说道。为了表达某种感情，她准备夸大自己的过错。爱难道不会远远地看到悔罪归来，并伏在它的脖子上亲吻它吗？

‘My dear Dorothea—‘who with repentance is not satisfied, is not of heaven nor earth:’—you do not think me worthy to be banished by that severe sentence,’ said Mr. Casaubon, exerting himself to make a strong statement, and also to smile faintly.
“我亲爱的多萝西娅——‘她不悔改，不属于天地，’——你认为我不值得被这样严厉的判决驱逐，”卡苏邦先生说，竭力做出强硬的声明，还淡淡一笑。

Dorothea was silent, but a tear which had come up with the sob would insist on falling.
多萝西娅一声不吭，但随着抽泣而来的泪水却坚持要落下。

‘You are excited, my dear.. And I also am feeling some unpleasant consequences of too much mental disturbance,’ said Mr. Casaubon. In fact, he had it in his thought to tell her that she ought not to have received young Ladislaw in his absence: but he abstained, partly from the sense that it would be ungracious to bring a new complaint in the moment of her penitent acknowledgment, partly because he wanted to avoid further agitation of himself by speech, and partly because he was too proud to betray that jealousy of disposition which was not so exhausted on his scholarly compeers that there was none to spare in other directions. There is a sort of jealousy which needs very little fire: it is hardly a passion, but a blight bred in the cloudy, damp despondency of uneasy egoism.
“你很兴奋，亲爱的……我也感受到了太多精神障碍带来的一些不愉快的后果，”卡苏邦先生说。事实上，他本想告诉她，她不应该在他缺席的情况下接待年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫：但他弃权了，部分原因是他觉得在她悔罪承认的那一刻提出新的投诉是不礼貌的。部分是因为他想避免言语进一步激怒自己，部分是因为他太骄傲了，不愿流露出对性情的嫉妒，这种嫉妒在他的学术同行身上还没有耗尽，以至于在其他方面都没有多余的余地。有一种嫉妒不需要太多火焰：它几乎不是一种激情，而是一种在不安的利己主义的阴暗、潮湿的沮丧中滋生的祸害。

‘I think it is time for us to dress,’ he added, looking at his watch. They both rose, and there was never any further allusion between them to what had passed on this day.
“我想我们该穿衣服了，”他看着手表补充道。他们俩都站了起来，他们之间再也没有提及这一天发生的事情。

But Dorothea remembered it to the last with the vividness with which we all remember epochs in our experience when some dear expectation dies, or some new motive is born. Today she had begun to see that she had been under a wild illusion in expecting a response to her feeling from Mr. Casaubon, and she had felt the waking of a presentiment that there might be a sad consciousness in his life which made as great a need on his side as on her own.
但多萝西娅对这件事记忆犹新，就像我们都记得我们经历过的那些美好的期望消失或新的动机诞生的时代一样。今天，她开始发现自己一直处于一种疯狂的幻想之中，期待着卡苏邦先生对她的感情做出回应，她感觉到一种预感的苏醒，即他的生活中可能有一种悲伤的意识，这使得她的生活变得更加美好。需要他像她自己一样。

We are all of us born in moral stupidity, taking the world as an udder to feed our supreme selves: Dorothea had early begun to emerge from that stupidity, but yet it had been easier to her to imagine how she would devote herself to Mr. Casaubon, and become wise and strong in his strength and wisdom, than to conceive with that distinctness which is no longer reflection but feeling— an idea wrought back to the directness of sense, like the solidity of objects—that he had an equivalent centre of self, whence the lights and shadows must always fall with a certain difference.
我们所有人都生来就道德愚蠢，把世界当作乳房来喂养我们至高无上的自我：多萝西娅很早就开始摆脱这种愚蠢，但她更容易想象她将如何全身心投入到先生身上。卡苏朋，并在他的力量和智慧上变得明智和坚强，而不是用那种不再是反射而是感觉的独特性来构想——一种回到感觉的直接性的想法，就像物体的坚固性一样——他有一个同等的中心self，因此光线和阴影必须始终以一定的差异落下。

CHAPTER XXII
第二十二章

‘Nous causames longtemps; elle etait simple et bonne.
‘Nous causames longtemps; elle etait simple et bonne。

Ne sachant pas le mal, elle faisait le bien;
Des richesses du coeur elle me fit l’aumone,
Des richesses du coeur elle me fit l’aumone，

Et tout en ecoutant comme le coeur se donne,
Et tout en eoutant comme le coeur se donne，

Sans oser y penser je lui donnai le mien;
Sans oser y penser je lui donnai le mien；

Elle emporta ma vie, et n’en sut jamais rien.’
Elle emporta ma vie, et n'en sut jamais rien。

—ALFRED DE MUSSET.
——阿尔弗雷德·德·缪塞。

Will Ladislaw was delightfully agreeable at dinner the next day, and gave no opportunity for Mr. Casaubon to show disapprobation. On the contrary it seemed to Dorothea that Will had a happier way of drawing her husband into conversation and of deferentially listening to him than she had ever observed in any one before. To be sure, the listeners about Tipton were not highly gifted! Will talked a good deal himself, but what he said was thrown in with such rapidity, and with such an unimportant air of saying something by the way, that it seemed a gay little chime after the great bell. If Will was not always perfect, this was certainly one of his good days. He described touches of incident among the poor people in Rome, only to be seen by one who could move about freely; he found himself in agreement with Mr. Casaubon as to the unsound opinions of Middleton concerning the relations of Judaism and Catholicism; and passed easily to a half-enthusiastic half-playful picture of the enjoyment he got out of the very miscellaneousness of Rome, which made the mind flexible with constant comparison, and saved you from seeing the world’s ages as a set of box-like partitions without vital connection. Mr. Casaubon’s studies, Will observed, had always been of too broad a kind for that, and he had perhaps never felt any such sudden effect, but for himself he confessed that Rome had given him quite a new sense of history as a whole: the fragments stimulated his imagination and made him constructive. Then occasionally, but not too often, he appealed to Dorothea, and discussed what she said, as if her sentiment were an item to be considered in the final judgment even of the Madonna di Foligno or the Laocoon. A sense of contributing to form the world’s opinion makes conversation particularly cheerful; and Mr. Casaubon too was not without his pride in his young wife, who spoke better than most women, as indeed he had perceived in choosing her.
第二天的晚餐时，威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫表现得很愉快，没有给卡苏邦先生任何表现出不满的机会。相反，在多萝西娅看来，威尔似乎有一种比她以前在任何人身上观察到的更快乐的方式来吸引她的丈夫交谈并恭敬地倾听他的讲话。可以肯定的是，谈论蒂普顿的听众并不是很有天赋！威尔自己也说了很多话，但他说的话速度如此之快，而且带着一种顺便说些什么的不重要的神情，以至于听起来像是大钟声后的欢快的小钟声。如果威尔并不总是完美的，那么这无疑是他的美好时光之一。他描述了罗马穷人中发生的一些事件，只有那些可以自由走动的人才能看到；他发现自己同意卡苏邦先生关于米德尔顿关于犹太教和天主教关系的不正确观点的观点。轻松地进入了一幅半热情半嬉戏的画面，描绘了他从罗马的繁杂中得到的享受，这使头脑在不断的比较中变得灵活，并且使你免于将世界的时代视为一组盒子般的分区没有重要的联系。威尔观察到，卡苏邦先生的研究一直过于广泛，他也许从未感受到过如此突然的影响，但他自己承认，罗马给了他对整个历史的一种全新的认识：这些碎片激发了他的想象力并使他具有建设性。然后偶尔，但不是太频繁，他向多萝西娅求助，并讨论她所说的话，就好像她的情绪是最终判决中要考虑的一个项目，甚至是对《福利尼奥圣母》或《拉奥孔》的最终判决。 为世界舆论做出贡献的感觉让谈话变得特别愉快；卡苏邦先生也对他年轻的妻子不无自豪，她比大多数女人都更能言善道，正如他在选择她时所感受到的那样。

Since things were going on so pleasantly, Mr. Casaubon’s statement that his labors in the Library would be suspended for a couple of days, and that after a brief renewal he should have no further reason for staying in Rome, encouraged Will to urge that Mrs. Casaubon should not go away without seeing a studio or two. Would not Mr. Casaubon take her? That sort of thing ought not to be missed: it was quite special: it was a form of life that grew like a small fresh vegetation with its population of insects on huge fossils. Will would be happy to conduct them—not to anything wearisome, only to a few examples.
由于事情进展得如此愉快，卡苏邦先生声明他在图书馆的工作将暂停几天，并且在短暂续约后他应该没有更多理由留在罗马，鼓励威尔敦促夫人卡苏邦不应该在没有参观一两个工作室之前就离开。卡苏邦先生不会带她走吗？这类事情不应该被忽视：它非常特别：它是一种像新鲜小植被一样生长的生命形式，其昆虫种群生长在巨大的化石上。威尔很乐意指导他们——不会做任何令人厌烦的事情，只举几个例子。

Mr. Casaubon, seeing Dorothea look earnestly towards him, could not but ask her if she would be interested in such visits: he was now at her service during the whole day; and it was agreed that Will should come on the morrow and drive with them.
卡苏邦先生看到多萝西娅热切地望着他，忍不住问她是否有兴趣这样的拜访：他现在一整天都为她服务；他愿意为她服务吗？大家一致同意威尔明天来和他们一起开车。

Will could not omit Thorwaldsen, a living celebrity about whom even Mr. Casaubon inquired, but before the day was far advanced he led the way to the studio of his friend Adolf Naumann, whom he mentioned as one of the chief renovators of Christian art, one of those who had not only revived but expanded that grand conception of supreme events as mysteries at which the successive ages were spectators, and in relation to which the great souls of all periods became as it were contemporaries. Will added that he had made himself Naumann’s pupil for the nonce.
威尔无法忽略索瓦尔德森，这位活生生的名人甚至连卡苏邦先生都询问过他，但天还没亮，他就带路去了他的朋友阿道夫·瑙曼的工作室，他提到他是基督教艺术的主要革新者之一，其中一位不仅复兴而且扩展了将至高无上的事件视为神秘的宏大概念，历代的时代都是旁观者，所有时期的伟大灵魂都成为了同时代的人。威尔补充说，他暂时让自己成为瑙曼的学生。

‘I have been making some oil-sketches under him,’ said Will. ‘I hate copying. I must put something of my own in. Naumann has been painting the Saints drawing the Car of the Church, and I have been making a sketch of Marlowe’s Tamburlaine Driving the Conquered Kings in his Chariot. I am not so ecclesiastical as Naumann, and I sometimes twit him with his excess of meaning. But this time I mean to outdo him in breadth of intention. I take Tamburlaine in his chariot for the tremendous course of the world’s physical history lashing on the harnessed dynasties. In my opinion, that is a good mythical interpretation.’ Will here looked at Mr. Casaubon, who received this offhand treatment of symbolism very uneasily, and bowed with a neutral air.
“我一直在他下面画一些油画草图，”威尔说。 “我讨厌抄袭。我必须加入一些我自己的东西。瑙曼一直在画圣徒画教堂的汽车，而我一直在画马洛的帖木儿大帝驾驶战车的素描。我不像瑙曼那么热衷于教会，有时我会用他多余的意思来嘲笑他。但这一次我的意图是要在意图的广度上超越他。我带着帖木儿大帝坐在他的战车上，见证了世界自然历史的巨大进程，猛烈地攻击着那些驾驭着的王朝。在我看来，这是一个很好的神话解释。”威尔看着卡苏邦先生，他很不安地接受了这种不经意的象征主义对待，然后以中立的神情鞠了一躬。

‘The sketch must be very grand, if it conveys so much,’ said Dorothea. ‘I should need some explanation even of the meaning you give. Do you intend Tamburlaine to represent earthquakes and volcanoes?’
多萝西娅说：“如果这个草图传达了这么多信息的话，它一定非常宏伟。” “即使是你所赋予的含义，我也需要一些解释。”你想让帖木儿大帝代表地震和火山吗？

‘Oh yes,’ said Will, laughing, ‘and migrations of races and clearings of forests—and America and the steam-engine. Everything you can imagine!’
“哦，是的，”威尔笑着说，“还有种族迁徙和森林开垦——还有美国和蒸汽机。你能想象到的一切！

‘What a difficult kind of shorthand!’ said Dorothea, smiling towards her husband. ‘It would require all your knowledge to be able to read it.’
“多么困难的速记啊！”多萝西娅微笑着对她的丈夫说道。 “这需要你所有的知识才能阅读它。”

Mr. Casaubon blinked furtively at Will. He had a suspicion that he was being laughed at. But it was not possible to include Dorothea in the suspicion.
卡苏邦先生偷偷地对威尔眨了眨眼。他怀疑自己被嘲笑了。但不可能将多萝西娅纳入嫌疑范围。

They found Naumann painting industriously, but no model was present; his pictures were advantageously arranged, and his own plain vivacious person set off by a dove-colored blouse and a maroon velvet cap, so that everything was as fortunate as if he had expected the beautiful young English lady exactly at that time.
他们发现瑙曼很勤奋地作画，但没有模特在场。他的照片安排得很好，鸽子色的衬衫和栗色的天鹅绒帽子衬托出他朴素活泼的性格，一切都那么幸运，就好像他当时就预料到了这位美丽的英国小姐一样。

The painter in his confident English gave little dissertations on his finished and unfinished subjects, seeming to observe Mr. Casaubon as much as he did Dorothea. Will burst in here and there with ardent words of praise, marking out particular merits in his friend’s work; and Dorothea felt that she was getting quite new notions as to the significance of Madonnas seated under inexplicable canopied thrones with the simple country as a background, and of saints with architectural models in their hands, or knives accidentally wedged in their skulls. Some things which had seemed monstrous to her were gathering intelligibility and even a natural meaning: but all this was apparently a branch of knowledge in which Mr. Casaubon had not interested himself.
画家用他自信的英语对他已完成和未完成的主题做了一些论文，似乎观察卡苏邦先生就像观察多萝西娅一样。威尔时不时地突然出现热情洋溢的赞美之词，指出他朋友工作中的特别优点。多萝西娅觉得，她对坐在莫名其妙的带天篷的宝座下、以简单的乡村为背景的圣母、手持建筑模型的圣徒或不小心插进头骨的刀子的意义有了新的认识。有些在她看来怪异的东西现在变得可以理解，甚至具有了自然的意义：但所有这些显然都是卡苏邦先生自己不感兴趣的知识分支。

‘I think I would rather feel that painting is beautiful than have to read it as an enigma; but I should learn to understand these pictures sooner than yours with the very wide meaning,’ said Dorothea, speaking to Will.
“我想我宁愿感觉绘画是美丽的，也不愿把它当作一个谜来读；但我应该比你的更早学会理解这些意义广泛的图画。”多萝西娅对威尔说道。

‘Don’t speak of my painting before Naumann,’ said Will. ‘He will tell you, it is all pfuscherei, which is his most opprobrious word!’
“不要在瑙曼面前谈论我的画，”威尔说。 “他会告诉你，这都是pfuscherei，这是他最侮辱性的词！”

‘Is that true?’ said Dorothea, turning her sincere eyes on Naumann, who made a slight grimace and said—
“这是真的吗？”多萝西娅说道，她把真诚的目光转向瑙曼，后者微微做了个鬼脸，说道——

‘Oh, he does not mean it seriously with painting. His walk must be belles-lettres. That is wi-ide.’
‘哦，他对绘画并不是认真的。他的言行一定是优美的。那是wi-ide。

Naumann’s pronunciation of the vowel seemed to stretch the word satirically. Will did not half like it, but managed to laugh: and Mr. Casaubon, while he felt some disgust at the artist’s German accent, began to entertain a little respect for his judicious severity.
瑙曼对元音的发音似乎讽刺地延伸了这个词。威尔半点不喜欢，但还是笑了：卡苏邦先生虽然对艺术家的德国口音感到有些厌恶，但开始对他明智的严厉产生了一点尊重。

The respect was not diminished when Naumann, after drawing Will aside for a moment and looking, first at a large canvas, then at Mr. Casaubon, came forward again and said—
瑙曼把威尔拉到一边，先是看了一眼大画布，然后又看了看卡苏邦先生，然后再次走上前说道——

‘My friend Ladislaw thinks you will pardon me, sir, if I say that a sketch of your head would be invaluable to me for the St. Thomas Aquinas in my picture there. It is too much to ask; but I so seldom see just what I want—the idealistic in the real.’
“我的朋友拉迪斯瓦夫认为，如果我说你的头像素描对于我画中的圣托马斯·阿奎那来说是无价的，你会原谅我的。”要求太多了；但我很少看到我想要的东西——现实中的理想主义。”

‘You astonish me greatly, sir,’ said Mr. Casaubon, his looks improved with a glow of delight; ‘but if my poor physiognomy, which I have been accustomed to regard as of the commonest order, can be of any use to you in furnishing some traits for the angelical doctor, I shall feel honored. That is to say, if the operation will not be a lengthy one; and if Mrs. Casaubon will not object to the delay.’
“你让我大吃一惊，先生，”卡苏朋先生说道，他的脸色因喜悦而变得更好。 “但是，如果我习惯于认为是最普通的相貌不佳，可以为你提供一些天使医生的特征，我将感到荣幸。也就是说，如果操作不会很冗长；如果卡苏邦夫人不反对推迟的话。”

As for Dorothea, nothing could have pleased her more, unless it had been a miraculous voice pronouncing Mr. Casaubon the wisest and worthiest among the sons of men. In that case her tottering faith would have become firm again.
至于多萝西娅，没有什么比这更让她高兴的了，除非有一个神奇的声音宣布卡苏朋先生是人类之子中最聪明、最有价值的人。那样的话，她摇摇欲坠的信念就会再次坚定起来。

Naumann’s apparatus was at hand in wonderful completeness, and the sketch went on at once as well as the conversation. Dorothea sat down and subsided into calm silence, feeling happier than she had done for a long while before. Every one about her seemed good, and she said to herself that Rome, if she had only been less ignorant, would have been full of beauty its sadness would have been winged with hope. No nature could be less suspicious than hers: when she was a child she believed in the gratitude of wasps and the honorable susceptibility of sparrows, and was proportionately indignant when their baseness was made manifest.
瑙曼的设备就在手边，非常完整，草图和谈话立刻就开始了。多萝西娅坐下来，陷入平静的沉默，感觉比以前更快乐了很长一段时间。她周围的每一个人似乎都很好，她对自己说，如果她不那么无知，罗马就会充满美丽，它的悲伤就会插上希望的翅膀。没有人比她的性格更容易怀疑：当她还是个孩子的时候，她相信黄蜂的感激之情和麻雀的光荣感性，当他们的卑鄙暴露时，她相当愤慨。

The adroit artist was asking Mr. Casaubon questions about English polities, which brought long answers, and, Will meanwhile had perched himself on some steps in the background overlooking all.
这位熟练的艺术家正在向卡苏邦先生询问有关英国政治的问题，他带来了很长的答案，而与此同时，威尔则坐在背景的一些台阶上，俯瞰着一切。

Presently Naumann said—‘Now if I could lay this by for half an hour and take it up again—come and look, Ladislaw—I think it is perfect so far.’
不久，瑙曼说道：“现在，如果我能把它搁置半小时，然后再拿起它——来看看，拉迪斯瓦夫——我认为到目前为止它是完美的。”

Will vented those adjuring interjections which imply that admiration is too strong for syntax; and Naumann said in a tone of piteous regret—
威尔会发泄出那些劝诫性的感叹词，这些感叹词暗示着钦佩对于语法来说太强烈了。瑙曼用一种可怜的遗憾的语气说道——

‘Ah—now—if I could but have had more—but you have other engagements— I could not ask it—or even to come again to-morrow.’
“啊——现在——如果我能再多一点就好了——但是你还有其他的事——我不能要求——甚至明天再来。”

‘Oh, let us stay!’ said Dorothea. ‘We have nothing to do to-day except go about, have we?’ she added, looking entreatingly at Mr. Casaubon. ‘It would be a pity not to make the head as good as possible.’
“噢，我们留下来吧！”多萝西娅说。 “我们今天除了出去走走之外没什么可做的，不是吗？”她补充道，恳求地看着卡苏邦先生。 “如果不把头部做得尽可能好，那就太遗憾了。”

‘I am at your service, sir, in the matter,’ said Mr. Casaubon, with polite condescension. ‘Having given up the interior of my head to idleness, it is as well that the exterior should work in this way.’
“先生，这件事我愿意为您效劳，”卡苏邦先生礼貌地居高临下地说。 “既然我的大脑内部已被闲置，那么外部也应该如此运作。”

‘You are unspeakably good—now I am happy!’ said Naumann, and then went on in German to Will, pointing here and there to the sketch as if he were considering that. Putting it aside for a moment, he looked round vaguely, as if seeking some occupation for his visitors, and afterwards turning to Mr. Casaubon, said—
“你太棒了——现在我很高兴！”瑙曼说，然后用德语对威尔继续说，指着草图，好像他正在考虑这一点。他把它放在一边，茫然地环顾四周，似乎是在为来访者找点事做，然后转向卡苏邦先生，说道——

‘Perhaps the beautiful bride, the gracious lady, would not be unwilling to let me fill up the time by trying to make a slight sketch of her—not, of course, as you see, for that picture— only as a single study.’
“也许这位美丽的新娘，这位亲切的女士，不会不愿意让我通过尝试为她画一幅草图来打发时间——当然，不是像你看到的那样，只是为了那幅画——只是作为一项研究。 '

Mr. Casaubon, bowing, doubted not that Mrs. Casaubon would oblige him, and Dorothea said, at once, ‘Where shall I put myself?’
卡苏朋先生鞠了个躬，毫不怀疑卡苏朋夫人会答应他的要求，多萝西娅立刻说道：“我该把自己放在哪里呢？”

Naumann was all apologies in asking her to stand, and allow him to adjust her attitude, to which she submitted without any of the affected airs and laughs frequently thought necessary on such occasions, when the painter said, ‘It is as Santa Clara that I want you to stand— leaning so, with your cheek against your hand—so—looking at that stool, please, so!’
瑙曼非常抱歉地要求她站起来，并允许他调整自己的态度，她服从了这一要求，没有任何在这种场合经常被认为必要的做作的神态和笑声，当画家说：“我就像圣克拉拉一样”希望你站起来——靠得这么近，脸颊靠在手上——所以——看着那个凳子，拜托，所以！

Will was divided between the inclination to fall at the Saint’s feet and kiss her robe, and the temptation to knock Naumann down while he was adjusting her arm. All this was impudence and desecration, and he repented that he had brought her.
威尔有两种想法：一是想跪倒在圣人的脚下亲吻她的长袍，二是想在瑙曼调整她的手臂时将他击倒。这一切都是无礼和亵渎，他后悔自己带了她来。

The artist was diligent, and Will recovering himself moved about and occupied Mr. Casaubon as ingeniously as he could; but he did not in the end prevent the time from seeming long to that gentleman, as was clear from his expressing a fear that Mrs. Casaubon would be tired. Naumann took the hint and said—
这位艺术家很勤奋，威尔恢复了元气，尽可能巧妙地在卡苏邦先生周围走来走去。但他最终并没有阻止这位先生觉得时间很长，从他表达的担心卡苏邦夫人会累的表情中可以清楚地看出这一点。瑙曼领会了暗示，说道——

‘Now, sir, if you can oblige me again; I will release the lady-wife.’
“现在，先生，如果您能再次满足我的要求的话；我会释放那​​位女士的。

So Mr. Casaubon’s patience held out further, and when after all it turned out that the head of Saint Thomas Aquinas would be more perfect if another sitting could be had, it was granted for the morrow. On the morrow Santa Clara too was retouched more than once. The result of all was so far from displeasing to Mr. Casaubon, that he arranged for the purchase of the picture in which Saint Thomas Aquinas sat among the doctors of the Church in a disputation too abstract to be represented, but listened to with more or less attention by an audience above. The Santa Clara, which was spoken of in the second place, Naumann declared himself to be dissatisfied with— he could not, in conscience, engage to make a worthy picture of it; so about the Santa Clara the arrangement was conditional.
于是，卡苏邦先生的耐心又坚持了下来，最终证明，如果能再举行一次圣托马斯·阿奎那的头像会更加完美，于是第二天就批准了。第二天，圣克拉拉也被修改了不止一次。一切的结果远没有让卡苏邦先生感到不高兴，他安排购买了一幅照片，在这幅画中，圣托马斯·阿奎那坐在教会的医生中间，进行一场过于抽象而无法代表的争论，但他听了更多或更多的内容。上面观众的注意力较少。其次提到的圣克拉拉号，瑙曼宣称自己对此并不满意——凭良心来说，他无法为它拍一张有价值的照片；因为他没有能力为它拍一张有价值的照片。所以关于圣克拉拉号的安排是有条件的。

I will not dwell on Naumann’s jokes at the expense of Mr. Casaubon that evening, or on his dithyrambs about Dorothea’s charm, in all which Will joined, but with a difference. No sooner did Naumann mention any detail of Dorothea’s beauty, than Will got exasperated at his presumption: there was grossness in his choice of the most ordinary words, and what business had he to talk of her lips? She was not a woman to be spoken of as other women were. Will could not say just what he thought, but he became irritable. And yet, when after some resistance he had consented to take the Casaubons to his friend’s studio, he had been allured by the gratification of his pride in being the person who could grant Naumann such an opportunity of studying her loveliness—or rather her divineness, for the ordinary phrases which might apply to mere bodily prettiness were not applicable to her. (Certainly all Tipton and its neighborhood, as well as Dorothea herself, would have been surprised at her beauty being made so much of. In that part of the world Miss Brooke had been only a ‘fine young woman.’)
我不会详述那天晚上瑙曼拿卡苏朋先生开的玩笑，也不会详述他对多萝西娅魅力的赞美诗，威尔也参与了这一切，但有所不同。瑙曼一提到多萝西娅美丽的任何细节，威尔就对他的自以为是感到恼怒：他选择的最普通的词语都是粗俗的，他有什么资格谈论她的嘴唇？她不像其他女人那样是一个值得谈论的女人。威尔无法说出自己的想法，但他变得烦躁起来。然而，经过一番抵制，当他同意带卡苏邦夫妇去他朋友的工作室时，他被自己的自豪感所吸引，因为他能够给瑙曼这样一个机会来研究她的可爱——或者更确切地说，她的神圣，因为那些可能仅适用于身体美丽的普通短语不适用于她。 （当然，所有蒂普顿及其邻居，以及多萝西娅本人，都会对她的美貌受到如此重视而感到惊讶。在世界的那个地方，布鲁克小姐只是一个“漂亮的年轻女子”。）

‘Oblige me by letting the subject drop, Naumann. Mrs. Casaubon is not to be talked of as if she were a model,’ said Will. Naumann stared at him.
“劳曼，请让我放弃这个话题。” “卡苏邦夫人不能被当作模特来谈论，”威尔说。瑙曼盯着他。

‘Schon! I will talk of my Aquinas. The head is not a bad type, after all. I dare say the great scholastic himself would have been flattered to have his portrait asked for. Nothing like these starchy doctors for vanity! It was as I thought: he cared much less for her portrait than his own.’
‘舍恩！我会谈谈我的阿奎那。毕竟头型还不错。我敢说，如果有人索要他的肖像，这位伟大的学者本人一定会感到受宠若惊。没有什么比这些刻板的医生更能满足虚荣心了！正如我所想的那样：他对她的肖像的关心远不如对他自己的肖像的关心。

‘He’s a cursed white-blooded pedantic coxcomb,’ said Will, with gnashing impetuosity. His obligations to Mr. Casaubon were not known to his hearer, but Will himself was thinking of them, and wishing that he could discharge them all by a check.
“他是个该死的白血学究花花公子，”威尔气急败坏地说。他的听众并不知道他对卡苏邦先生的义务，但威尔本人正在考虑这些义务，并希望他能通过支票将其全部免除。

Naumann gave a shrug and said, ‘It is good they go away soon, my dear. They are spoiling your fine temper.’
瑙曼耸耸肩说道：“亲爱的，他们很快就会离开，这很好。”他们破坏了你的好脾气。

All Will’s hope and contrivance were now concentrated on seeing Dorothea when she was alone. He only wanted her to take more emphatic notice of him; he only wanted to be something more special in her remembrance than he could yet believe himself likely to be. He was rather impatient under that open ardent good-will, reach he saw was her usual state of feeling. The remote worship of a woman throned out of their reach plays a great part in men’s lives, but in most cases the worshipper longs for some queenly recognition, some approving sign by which his soul’s sovereign may cheer him without descending from her high place. That was precisely what Will wanted. But there were plenty of contradictions in his imaginative demands. It was beautiful to see how Dorothea’s eyes turned with wifely anxiety and beseeching to Mr. Casaubon: she would have lost some of her halo if she had been without that duteous preoccupation; and yet at the next moment the husband’s sandy absorption of such nectar was too intolerable; and Will’s longing to say damaging things about him was perhaps not the less tormenting because he felt the strongest reasons for restraining it.
现在，威尔所有的希望和努力都集中在多萝西娅独自一人时见到她。他只是想让她更加注意他；他只是想在她的记忆中成为一个比他自己想象的更特别的人。在那种公开的热情善意之下，他有些不耐烦了，他看到的是她平常的感觉。对一个遥不可及的女性的远程崇拜在男人的生活中发挥着重要作用，但在大多数情况下，崇拜者渴望得到某种女王般的认可，某种认可的标志，通过这种标志，他的灵魂主权者可以在不从她的高位上下来的情况下为他欢呼。这正是威尔想要的。但他的富有想象力的要求却存在很多矛盾。看到多萝西娅的眼神充满了妻子般的焦虑和对卡苏邦先生的恳求，真是太美妙了：如果她没有那种尽职尽责的专注，她就会失去一些光环；然而，下一刻，丈夫就如沙子般地吸收了这样的甘露，实在令人难以忍受。威尔渴望说一些关于他的坏话，这也许并没有减轻他的痛苦，因为他觉得有最有力的理由克制住它。

Will had not been invited to dine the next day. Hence he persuaded himself that he was bound to call, and that the only eligible time was the middle of the day, when Mr. Casaubon would not be at home.
第二天威尔没有被邀请去吃饭。因此，他说服自己，他一定要打电话，而且唯一合适的时间是中午，卡苏邦先生不在家的时候。

Dorothea, who had not been made aware that her former reception of Will had displeased her husband, had no hesitation about seeing him, especially as he might be come to pay a farewell visit. When he entered she was looking at some cameos which she had been buying for Celia. She greeted Will as if his visit were quite a matter of course, and said at once, having a cameo bracelet in her hand—
多萝西娅并没有意识到她之前接待威尔的行为让她的丈夫感到不高兴，她毫不犹豫地要见他，尤其是考虑到他可能会来告别。当他进来时，她正在看一些她为西莉亚买的浮雕。她向威尔打招呼，仿佛他的来访是理所当然的，然后立刻说道，手里拿着一个浮雕手镯——

‘I am so glad you are come. Perhaps you understand all about cameos, and can tell me if these are really good. I wished to have you with us in choosing them, but Mr. Casaubon objected: he thought there was not time. He will finish his work to-morrow, and we shall go away in three days. I have been uneasy about these cameos. Pray sit down and look at them.’
‘我很高兴你能来。也许你了解客串的全部内容，并且可以告诉我这些是否真的很好。我希望你能和我们一起选择他们，但卡苏邦先生反对：他认为没有时间。他明天就会完成工作，三天后我们就走。我对这些客串一直感到不安。请坐下来看看他们。

‘I am not particularly knowing, but there can be no great mistake about these little Homeric bits: they are exquisitely neat. And the color is fine: it will just suit you.’
“我不是特别清楚，但这些荷马史诗的小片段不会有什么大错误：它们非常整洁。而且颜色很好：它很适合你。”

‘Oh, they are for my sister, who has quite a different complexion. You saw her with me at Lowick: she is light-haired and very pretty— at least I think so. We were never so long away from each other in our lives before. She is a great pet and never was naughty in her life. I found out before I came away that she wanted me to buy her some cameos, and I should be sorry for them not to be good—after their kind.’ Dorothea added the last words with a smile.
“哦，这是给我妹妹的，她的肤色很不一样。”你在洛威克见过她和我在一起：她浅色头发，非常漂亮——至少我这么认为。我们一生中从未分开过这么久。她是一只很棒的宠物，一生中从未调皮过。我在离开之前就发现她想让我给她买一些浮雕，我应该为它们不善良而感到抱歉——按照它们的种类。”多萝西娅微笑着补充了最后一句话。

‘You seem not to care about cameos,’ said Will, seating himself at some distance from her, and observing her while she closed the oases.
“你似乎并不关心客串，”威尔说，坐在离她一段距离的地方，在她关闭绿洲时观察她。

‘No, frankly, I don’t think them a great object in life,’ said Dorothea
“不，坦率地说，我不认为它们是生活中的伟大目标，”多萝西娅说

‘I fear you are a heretic about art generally. How is that? I should have expected you to be very sensitive to the beautiful everywhere.’
“我担心你总体上是一个艺术异端。那个怎么样？我应该预料到你对各地的美丽都非常敏感。

‘I suppose I am dull about many things,’ said Dorothea, simply. ‘I should like to make life beautiful—I mean everybody’s life. And then all this immense expense of art, that seems somehow to lie outside life and make it no better for the world, pains one. It spoils my enjoyment of anything when I am made to think that most people are shut out from it.’
“我想我对很多事情都感到迟钝，”多萝西娅简单地说。 “我想让生活变得美好——我指的是每个人的生活。然后，所有这些巨大的艺术支出，似乎不知何故存在于生活之外，并没有让世界变得更好，令人痛苦。当我认为大多数人都被排除在外时，我对任何事情的享受都会被破坏。

‘I call that the fanaticism of sympathy,’ said Will, impetuously. ‘You might say the same of landscape, of poetry, of all refinement. If you carried it out you ought to be miserable in your own goodness, and turn evil that you might have no advantage over others. The best piety is to enjoy—when you can. You are doing the most then to save the earth’s character as an agreeable planet. And enjoyment radiates. It is of no use to try and take care of all the world; that is being taken care of when you feel delight— in art or in anything else. Would you turn all the youth of the world into a tragic chorus, wailing and moralizing over misery? I suspect that you have some false belief in the virtues of misery, and want to make your life a martyrdom.’ Will had gone further than he intended, and checked himself. But Dorothea’s thought was not taking just the same direction as his own, and she answered without any special emotion—
“我称之为同情的狂热，”威尔急躁地说。 “你可能会对风景、诗歌和所有精致的事物这么说。如果你这样做了，你就应该为自己的善良而感到痛苦，而变成邪恶，这样你就不会比别人有任何优势。最好的虔诚就是享受——当你可以的时候。你们正在尽最大努力来拯救地球作为一个宜人星球的特性。并且散发着享受。试图照顾整个世界是没有用的；当你对艺术或其他任何事情感到高兴时，就会注意到这一点。你会把全世界的年轻人变成一个悲惨的合唱团，为苦难哀号并说教吗？我怀疑你对苦难的美德有一些错误的信念，并想让你的生活成为殉道者。”威尔的行为超出了他的预期，并检查了自己。但多萝西娅的想法与他的想法并不相同，她毫无特殊情绪地回答道——

‘Indeed you mistake me. I am not a sad, melancholy creature. I am never unhappy long together. I am angry and naughty—not like Celia: I have a great outburst, and then all seems glorious again. I cannot help believing in glorious things in a blind sort of way. I should be quite willing to enjoy the art here, but there is so much that I don’t know the reason of—so much that seems to me a consecration of ugliness rather than beauty. The painting and sculpture may be wonderful, but the feeling is often low and brutal, and sometimes even ridiculous. Here and there I see what takes me at once as noble—something that I might compare with the Alban Mountains or the sunset from the Pincian Hill; but that makes it the greater pity that there is so little of the best kind among all that mass of things over which men have toiled so.’
‘你确实误会我了。我不是一个悲伤、忧郁的生物。长期在一起我从来不会不开心。我很生气，也很顽皮——不像西莉亚：我大发雷霆，然后一切似乎又恢复了光彩。我情不自禁地盲目地相信光荣的事物。我应该很愿意欣赏这里的艺术，但有太多我不知道其中原因的东西——在我看来，有太多东西是对丑陋的奉献，而不是对美的奉献。绘画和雕塑也许很美妙，但给人的感觉往往是低沉而残酷的，有时甚至是可笑的。到处我都能看到什么让我立刻觉得高贵——我可以将它们与阿尔班山脉或平西安山的日落相比较；但更令人遗憾的是，在人们辛苦劳作的众多事物中，最好的事物却如此之少。

‘Of course there is always a great deal of poor work: the rarer things want that soil to grow in.’
“当然，总会有很多糟糕的工作：更稀有的东西需要土壤来生长。”

‘Oh dear,’ said Dorothea, taking up that thought into the chief current of her anxiety; ‘I see it must be very difficult to do anything good. I have often felt since I have been in Rome that most of our lives would look much uglier and more bungling than the pictures, if they could be put on the wall.’
“哦，天哪，”多萝西娅说，把这个想法带入了她最焦虑的情绪之中。 “我看做任何好事一定很困难。自从来到罗马以来，我经常感到，如果把照片挂在墙上，我们的大部分生活都会比照片看起来更丑陋、更笨拙。

Dorothea parted her lips again as if she were going to say more, but changed her mind and paused.
多萝西娅再次张开嘴唇，似乎还想再说些什么，但又改变了主意，停了下来。

‘You are too young—it is an anachronism for you to have such thoughts,’ said Will, energetically, with a quick shake of the head habitual to him. ‘You talk as if you had never known any youth. It is monstrous— as if you had had a vision of Hades in your childhood, like the boy in the legend. You have been brought up in some of those horrible notions that choose the sweetest women to devour—like Minotaurs And now you will go and be shut up in that stone prison at Lowick: you will be buried alive. It makes me savage to think of it! I would rather never have seen you than think of you with such a prospect.’
“你还太年轻——有这样的想法是不合时宜的。”威尔精力充沛地说，他习惯性地快速摇头。 ‘你说话的样子就好像你从来不认识任何年轻人一样。它很可怕——就好像你小时候曾看到过哈迪斯，就像传说中的男孩一样。你是在一些可怕的观念中长大的，这些观念选择了最可爱的女人来吞噬——就像牛头怪一样。现在你将被关在洛威克的那个石头监狱里：你将被活埋。想起来我就觉得很野蛮！我宁愿从未见过你，也不愿想到你有这样的前景。

Will again feared that he had gone too far; but the meaning we attach to words depends on our feeling, and his tone of angry regret had so much kindness in it for Dorothea’s heart, which had always been giving out ardor and had never been fed with much from the living beings around her, that she felt a new sense of gratitude and answered with a gentle smile—
威尔再次担心自己做得太过分了。但我们赋予言语的意义取决于我们的感受，他愤怒悔恨的语气对多萝西娅的心来说充满了善意，这颗心一直在散发着热情，从未从她周围的生灵那里得到太多滋养，以至于她心中升起一股新的感激之情，以温柔的微笑回答道——

‘It is very good of you to be anxious about me. It is because you did not like Lowick yourself: you had set your heart on another kind of life. But Lowick is my chosen home.’
‘你为我担心真是太好了。这是因为你自己并不喜欢洛威克：你一心追求另一种生活。但洛威克是我选择的家。”

The last sentence was spoken with an almost solemn cadence, and Will did not know what to say, since it would not be useful for him to embrace her slippers, and tell her that he would die for her: it was clear that she required nothing of the sort; and they were both silent for a moment or two, when Dorothea began again with an air of saying at last what had been in her mind beforehand.
最后一句话的语气几乎是庄严的，威尔不知道该说什么，因为他拥抱她的拖鞋并告诉她他会为她而死是没有用的：很明显，她什么都不需要。之类的；他们俩都沉默了一两分钟，这时多萝西娅又开始说话了，她的神情终于说出了她之前的想法。

‘I wanted to ask you again about something you said the other day. Perhaps it was half of it your lively way of speaking: I notice that you like to put things strongly; I myself often exaggerate when I speak hastily.’
“我想再问你一遍你那天说的话。也许一半是因为你活泼的说话方式：我注意到你喜欢把事情说得很强烈；我自己说话仓促时常常会夸大其词。

‘What was it?’ said Will, observing that she spoke with a timidity quite new in her. ‘I have a hyperbolical tongue: it catches fire as it goes. I dare say I shall have to retract.’
“那是什么？”威尔问道，注意到她说话时带着一种前所未有的胆怯。 “我有一个双曲线的舌头：它一边走一边着火。我敢说我将不得不撤回。

‘I mean what you said about the necessity of knowing German—I mean, for the subjects that Mr. Casaubon is engaged in. I have been thinking about it; and it seems to me that with Mr. Casaubon’s learning he must have before him the same materials as German scholars—has he not?’ Dorothea’s timidity was due to an indistinct consciousness that she was in the strange situation of consulting a third person about the adequacy of Mr. Casaubon’s learning.
“我的意思是你所说的关于了解德语的必要性——我的意思是，对于卡苏邦先生所从事的学科。我一直在考虑这个问题；在我看来，以卡苏邦先生的学识，他面前一定有与德国学者相同的材料——不是吗？卡苏邦先生的学识是否充足。

‘Not exactly the same materials,’ said Will, thinking that he would be duly reserved. ‘He is not an Orientalist, you know. He does not profess to have more than second-hand knowledge there.’
“材料不完全一样，”威尔说，他认为自己会得到适当的保留。 “你知道，他不是东方学家。他并不声称自己拥有的只是二手知识。

‘But there are very valuable books about antiquities which were written a long while ago by scholars who knew nothing about these modern things; and they are still used. Why should Mr. Casaubon’s not be valuable, like theirs?’ said Dorothea, with more remonstrant energy. She was impelled to have the argument aloud, which she had been having in her own mind.
“但是有一些非常有价值的关于古代的书籍是很久以前由对这些现代事物一无所知的学者写的；并且它们仍然被使用。 “为什么卡苏邦先生的东西就不能像他们的东西一样有价值呢？”多萝西娅说道，语气中带着更多的抗议能量。她不得不大声说出自己心里一直在想的争论。

‘That depends on the line of study taken,’ said Will, also getting a tone of rejoinder. ‘The subject Mr. Casaubon has chosen is as changing as chemistry: new discoveries are constantly making new points of view. Who wants a system on the basis of the four elements, or a book to refute Paracelsus? Do you not see that it is no use now to be crawling a little way after men of the last century— men like Bryant—and correcting their mistakes?—living in a lumber-room and furbishing up broken-legged theories about Chus and Mizraim?’
“这取决于所采取的研究方向，”威尔说，同时也听到了反驳的语气。 “卡苏邦先生选择的主题就像化学一样不断变化：新的发现不断提出新的观点。谁想要一个基于四个要素的体系，或者一本反驳帕拉塞尔苏斯的书？难道你没有看到，现在追随上个世纪的人——像科比这样的人——并纠正他们的错误是没有用的吗？——住在杂物间里，编造关于楚斯和麦西的断腿理论。 ？

‘How can you bear to speak so lightly?’ said Dorothea, with a look between sorrow and anger. ‘If it were as you say, what could be sadder than so much ardent labor all in vain? I wonder it does not affect you more painfully, if you really think that a man like Mr. Casaubon, of so much goodness, power, and learning, should in any way fail in what has been the labor of his best years.’ She was beginning to be shocked that she had got to such a point of supposition, and indignant with Will for having led her to it.
“你怎么能忍受这么轻描淡写的话呢？”多萝西娅说道，表情介于悲伤和愤怒之间。 “如果真如你所说，还有什么比辛辛苦苦白费力气更可悲的呢？”我想知道，如果你真的认为像卡苏邦先生这样善良、有权力、有学问的人，在他最好的岁月里所付出的努力无论如何都会失败的话，这不会对你造成更痛苦的影响。”她她开始感到震惊，因为她竟然做出了这样的假设，并对威尔引导她做出这样的事情感到愤怒。

‘You questioned me about the matter of fact, not of feeling,’ said Will. ‘But if you wish to punish me for the fact, I submit. I am not in a position to express my feeling toward Mr. Casaubon: it would be at best a pensioner’s eulogy.’
“你问我的是事实，而不是感觉，”威尔说。 “但如果你想为此惩罚我，我就服从。”我无法表达我对卡苏邦先生的感情：这充其量只是一个养老金领取者的悼词。

‘Pray excuse me,’ said Dorothea, coloring deeply. ‘I am aware, as you say, that I am in fault in having introduced the subject. Indeed, I am wrong altogether. Failure after long perseverance is much grander than never to have a striving good enough to be called a failure.’
“请原谅，”多萝西娅脸色深沉地说。 “正如你所说，我知道引入这个话题是我的错误。确实，我完全错了。长期坚持之后的失败比从未有过的努力足以被称为失败要伟大得多。

‘I quite agree with you,’ said Will, determined to change the situation— ‘so much so that I have made up my mind not to run that risk of never attaining a failure. Mr. Casaubon’s generosity has perhaps been dangerous to me, and I mean to renounce the liberty it has given me. I mean to go back to England shortly and work my own way— depend on nobody else than myself.’
“我完全同意你的观点，”威尔说，他决心改变这种情况——“以至于我下定决心不再冒永远不会失败的风险。”卡苏邦先生的慷慨也许对我来说是危险的，我打算放弃它赋予我的自由。我打算很快回到英国，按照自己的方式工作——除了我自己，不依靠任何人。”

‘That is fine—I respect that feeling,’ said Dorothea, with returning kindness. ‘But Mr. Casaubon, I am sure, has never thought of anything in the matter except what was most for your welfare.’
“那很好——我尊重这种感觉，”多萝西娅回以善意地说。 “但是我确信卡苏邦先生在这件事上从来没有考虑过任何事情，除了对你的福祉最有利的事情。”

‘She has obstinacy and pride enough to serve instead of love, now she has married him,’ said Will to himself. Aloud he said, rising—
“她的固执和骄傲足以代替爱情来服务，现在她嫁给了他，”威尔自言自语道。他大声说道，站了起来——

‘I shall not see you again.’
“我不会再见到你了。”

‘Oh, stay till Mr. Casaubon comes,’ said Dorothea, earnestly. ‘I am so glad we met in Rome. I wanted to know you.’?
“噢，等卡苏朋先生来吧。”多萝西娅认真地说。 “我很高兴我们在罗马见面。我想认识你。’？

‘And I have made you angry,’ said Will. ‘I have made you think ill of me.’
“我让你生气了，”威尔说。 “我让你对我产生了不好的印象。”

‘Oh no. My sister tells me I am always angry with people who do not say just what I like. But I hope I am not given to think ill of them. In the end I am usually obliged to think ill of myself. for being so impatient.’
'不好了。我姐姐告诉我，我总是对那些不说我喜欢的话的人生气。但我希望我不会对他们产生不好的想法。最后我通常不得不对自己产生不好的看法。因为这么不耐烦。

‘Still, you don’t like me; I have made myself an unpleasant thought to you.’
“尽管如此，你还是不喜欢我；我让你对我自己产生了不愉快的想法。

‘Not at all,’ said Dorothea, with the most open kindness. ‘I like you very much.’
“一点也不，”多萝西娅带着最开放的善意说道。 '我很喜欢你。'

Will was not quite contented, thinking that he would apparently have been of more importance if he had been disliked. He said nothing, but looked lull, not to say sulky.
威尔不太满意，认为如果他不被人喜欢的话，他显然会更重要。他什么也没说，但看起来很平静，更不用说生气了。

‘And I am quite interested to see what you will do,’ Dorothea went on cheerfully. ‘I believe devoutly in a natural difference of vocation. If it were not for that belief, I suppose I should be very narrow— there are so many things, besides painting, that I am quite ignorant of. You would hardly believe how little I have taken in of music and literature, which you know so much of. I wonder what your vocation will turn out to be: perhaps you will be a poet?’
“我很想知道你会做什么，”多萝西娅高兴地继续说道。 “我虔诚地相信职业的自然差异。如果不是这个信念，我想我应该很狭隘——除了绘画之外，还有很多东西我是一无所知的。你很难相信我对音乐和文学的了解是多么的少，而你对音乐和文学却了解得如此之多。我想知道你的职业会是什么：也许你会成为一名诗人？

‘That depends. To be a poet is to have a soul so quick to discern that no shade of quality escapes it, and so quick to feel, that discernment is but a hand playing with finely ordered variety on the chords of emotion—a soul in which knowledge passes instantaneously into feeling, and feeling flashes back as a new organ of knowledge. One may have that condition by fits only.’
'那要看。成为一名诗人，就必须拥有一颗能够迅速辨别的灵魂，没有任何品质的阴影可以逃脱它，并且能够如此迅速地感受到，这种辨别力只不过是一只在情感和弦上演奏着精细有序的变化的手——一个知识在其中传递的灵魂瞬间进入感觉，感觉作为新的知识器官闪回。一个人可能只是偶尔才会出现这种情况。

‘But you leave out the poems,’ said Dorothea. ‘I think they are wanted to complete the poet. I understand what you mean about knowledge passing into feeling, for that seems to be just what I experience. But I am sure I could never produce a poem.’
“但是你遗漏了那些诗，”多萝西娅说。 “我认为他们需要让诗人变得完整。我明白你所说的知识转化为感觉的意思，因为这似乎正是我的经历。但我确信我永远写不出一首诗。”

‘You ARE a poem—and that is to be the best part of a poet— what makes up the poet’s consciousness in his best moods,’ said Will, showing such originality as we all share with the morning and the spring-time and other endless renewals.
“你是一首诗——这就是诗人最好的部分——它构成了诗人在最好的心情下的意识，”威尔说，表现出我们在早晨、春天和其他时候所共有的独创性。无尽的更新。

‘I am very glad to hear it,’ said Dorothea, laughing out her words in a bird-like modulation, and looking at Will with playful gratitude in her eyes. ‘What very kind things you say to me!’
“我很高兴听到这个消息，”多萝西娅说道，用小鸟般的语气笑出了这句话，眼睛里带着俏皮的感激之情看着威尔。 “你对我说的话真是太好了！”

‘I wish I could ever do anything that would be what you call kind— that I could ever be of the slightest service to you I fear I shall never have the opportunity.’ Will spoke with fervor.
“我希望我能做任何你所说的善意的事情——我能为你提供哪怕一点点的服务，但恐怕我永远不会有机会了。”威尔热情地说。

‘Oh yes,’ said Dorothea, cordially. ‘It will come; and I shall remember how well you wish me. I quite hoped that we should be friends when I first saw you—because of your relationship to Mr. Casaubon.’ There was a certain liquid brightness in her eyes, and Will was conscious that his own were obeying a law of nature and filling too. The allusion to Mr. Casaubon would have spoiled all if anything at that moment could have spoiled the subduing power, the sweet dignity, of her noble unsuspicious inexperience.
“哦，是的，”多萝西娅亲切地说。 '它会来;我会记得你多么希望我。当我第一次见到你时，我非常希望我们能成为朋友——因为你和卡苏邦先生的关系。”她的眼睛里有一种液体般的明亮，威尔意识到他的眼睛也遵循自然法则，也充满了光芒。 。如果当时有什么事情能够破坏她高贵的、毫无疑虑的缺乏经验的征服力和甜蜜的尊严的话，对卡苏邦先生的暗示就会破坏一切。

‘And there is one thing even now that you can do,’ said Dorothea, rising and walking a little way under the strength of a recurring impulse. ‘Promise me that you will not again, to any one, speak of that subject— I mean about Mr. Casaubon’s writings—I mean in that kind of way. It was I who led to it. It was my fault. But promise me.’
“即使是现在，你也能做一件事，”多萝西娅说，在反复出现的冲动的力量下站起来走了一小段路。 “答应我，你不会再对任何人谈论这个话题——我指的是卡苏邦先生的著作——我指的是以那种方式。是我导致了这一切。是我的错。但答应我。

She had returned from her brief pacing and stood opposite Will, looking gravely at him.
她短暂地踱步回来，站在威尔对面，严肃地看着他。

‘Certainly, I will promise you,’ said Will, reddening however. If he never said a cutting word about Mr. Casaubon again and left off receiving favors from him, it would clearly be permissible to hate him the more. The poet must know how to hate, says Goethe; and Will was at least ready with that accomplishment. He said that he must go now without waiting for Mr. Casaubon, whom he would come to take leave of at the last moment. Dorothea gave him her hand, and they exchanged a simple ‘Good-by.’
“当然，我会向你保证，”威尔说，脸却涨红了。如果他不再对卡苏邦先生说一句尖酸刻薄的话，不再接受他的恩惠，那么显然可以更加恨他。歌德说，诗人必须懂得如何去恨；威尔至少已经做好了实现这一成就的准备。他说他现在必须走了，不用等卡苏邦先生，他会在最后一刻来向他告别。多萝西娅向他伸出了手，他们简单地说了句“再见”。

But going out of the porte cochere he met Mr. Casaubon, and that gentleman, expressing the best wishes for his cousin, politely waived the pleasure of any further leave-taking on the morrow, which would be sufficiently crowded with the preparations for departure.
但走出门廊，他遇到了卡苏邦先生，这位先生向他的表弟表达了最美好的祝愿，并礼貌地放弃了明天进一步告别的乐趣，因为明天已经挤满了出发的准备工作。

‘I have something to tell you about our cousin Mr. Ladislaw, which I think will heighten your opinion of him,’ said Dorothea to her husband in the coarse of the evening. She had mentioned immediately on his entering that Will had just gone away, and would come again, but Mr. Casaubon had said, ‘I met him outside, and we made our final adieux, I believe,’ saying this with the air and tone by which we imply that any subject, whether private or public, does not interest us enough to wish for a further remark upon it. So Dorothea had waited.
“我有一些关于我们表弟拉迪斯瓦夫先生的事情要告诉你，我想这会提高你对他的看法，”多萝西娅在傍晚时分对她的丈夫说道。当他进来时，她立即提到威尔刚刚离开，还会再来，但卡苏邦先生说，“我在外面遇见了他，我相信，我们做了最后的告别，”用神态和语气说这句话我们的意思是，任何主题，无论是私人的还是公共的，我们都没有足够的兴趣来希望对其进行进一步的评论。所以多萝西娅一直在等待。

‘What is that, my love?’ said Mr Casaubon (he always said ‘my love’ when his manner was the coldest).
“那是什么，我的爱人？”卡苏邦先生问道（当他的态度最冷淡时，他总是说“我的爱人”）。

‘He has made up his mind to leave off wandering at once, and to give up his dependence on your generosity. He means soon to go back to England, and work his own way. I thought you would consider that a good sign,’ said Dorothea, with an appealing look into her husband’s neutral face.
‘他已经决定立即停止流浪，不再依赖你的慷慨。他打算很快回到英国，按照自己的方式工作。我以为你会认为这是一个好兆头，”多萝西娅说道，用迷人的眼神看着她丈夫中性的脸。

‘Did he mention the precise order of occupation to which he would addict himself?’
“他有没有提到他会让自己沉迷的确切职业顺序？”

‘No. But he said that he felt the danger which lay for him in your generosity. Of course he will write to you about it. Do you not think better of him for his resolve?’
'不。但他说他感受到了你的慷慨给他带来的危险。当然他会写信告诉你这件事。你不觉得他的决心更好吗？

‘I shall await his communication on the subject,’ said Mr. Casaubon.
“我将等待他就这个问题进行沟通，”卡苏邦先生说。

‘I told him I was sure that the thing you considered in all you did for him was his own welfare. I remembered your goodness in what you said about him when I first saw him at Lowick,’ said Dorothea, putting her hand on her husband’s
“我告诉他，我确信你为他所做的一切都是为了他自己的福祉。当我第一次在洛威克见到他时，我记得你对他的好意，”多萝西娅说，把手放在丈夫的手上。

‘I had a duty towards him,’ said Mr. Casaubon, laying his other hand on Dorothea’s in conscientious acceptance of her caress, but with a glance which he could not hinder from being uneasy. ‘The young man, I confess, is not otherwise an object of interest to me, nor need we, I think, discuss his future course, which it is not ours to determine beyond the limits which I have sufficiently indicated.’ Dorothea did not mention Will again.
“我对他负有责任，”卡苏邦先生说，他把另一只手放在多萝西娅的手上，认真地接受她的爱抚，但他的眼神却无法阻止他感到不安。 “我承认，这个年轻人并不是我感兴趣的对象，我认为我们也不需要讨论他的未来道路，除了我已经充分表明的界限之外，我们不能决定他的未来道路。”多萝西娅没有再次提及威尔。

BOOK III.
第三册。


WAITING FOR DEATH.
等待死亡。


Chapter XXIII
第二十三章

“Your horses of the Sun,’ he said,
“你的太阳之马，”他说，

‘And first-rate whip Apollo!
“还有一流的鞭子阿波罗！

Whate’er they be, I’ll eat my head,
不管它们是什么，我都会吃掉我的头，

But I will beat them hollow.’
但我会打败他们。

Fred Vincy, we have seen. had a debt on his mind, and though no such immaterial burthen could depress that buoyant-hearted young gentleman for many hours together, there were circumstances connected with this debt which made the thought of it unusually importunate. The creditor was Mr. Bambridge a horse-dealer of the neighborhood, whose company was much sought in Middlemarch by young men understood to be ‘addicted to pleasure.’ During the vacations Fred had naturally required more amusements than he had ready money for, and Mr. Bambridge had been accommodating enough not only to trust him for the hire of horses and the accidental expense of ruining a fine hunter, but also to make a small advance by which he might be able to meet some losses at billiards. The total debt was a hundred and sixty pounds. Bambridge was in no alarm about his money, being sure that young Vincy had backers; but he had required something to show for it, and Fred had at first given a bill with his own signature. Three months later he had renewed this bill with the signature of Caleb Garth. On both occasions Fred had felt confident that he should meet the bill himself, having ample funds at disposal in his own hopefulness. You will hardly demand that his confidence should have a basis in external facts; such confidence, we know, is something less coarse and materialistic: it is a comfortable disposition leading us to expect that the wisdom of providence or the folly of our friends, the mysteries of luck or the still greater mystery of our high individual value in the universe, will bring about agreeable issues, such as are consistent with our good taste in costume, and our general preference for the best style of thing. Fred felt sure that he should have a present from his uncle, that he should have a run of luck, that by dint of ‘swapping’ he should gradually metamorphose a horse worth forty pounds into a horse that would fetch a hundred at any moment—‘judgment’ being always equivalent to an unspecified sum in hard cash. And in any case, even supposing negations which only a morbid distrust could imagine, Fred had always (at that time) his father’s pocket as a last resource, so that his assets of hopefulness had a sort of gorgeous superfluity about them. Of what might be the capacity of his father’s pocket, Fred had only a vague notion: was not trade elastic? And would not the deficiencies of one year be made up for by the surplus of another? The Vincys lived in an easy profuse way, not with any new ostentation, but according to the family habits and traditions, so that the children had no standard of economy, and the elder ones retained some of their infantine notion that their father might pay for anything if he would. Mr. Vincy himself had expensive Middlemarch habits—spent money on coursing, on his cellar, and on dinner-giving, while mamma had those running accounts with tradespeople, which give a cheerful sense of getting everything one wants without any question of payment. But it was in the nature of fathers, Fred knew, to bully one about expenses: there was always a little storm over his extravagance if he had to disclose a debt, and Fred disliked bad weather within doors. He was too filial to be disrespectful to his father, and he bore the thunder with the certainty that it was transient; but in the mean time it was disagreeable to see his mother cry, and also to be obliged to look sulky instead of having fun; for Fred was so good-tempered that if he looked glum under scolding, it was chiefly for propriety’s sake. The easier course plainly, was to renew the bill with a friend’s signature. Why not? With the superfluous securities of hope at his command, there was no reason why he should not have increased other people’s liabilities to any extent, but for the fact that men whose names were good for anything were usually pessimists, indisposed to believe that the universal order of things would necessarily be agreeable to an agreeable young gentleman.
弗雷德·文西，我们已经看到了。他心里有一笔债，虽然没有任何这种无形的负担可以让这位心地开朗的年轻绅士在几个小时内感到沮丧，但与这笔债有关的情况使他对这笔债的想法异常迫切。债权人是附近的马商班布里奇先生，在米德尔马奇，许多被认为“沉迷于享乐”的年轻人都在寻找他的公司。在假期期间，弗雷德自然需要更多的娱乐活动，而他没有准备好钱。班布里奇先生一直很包容，不仅信任他租用马匹和毁掉一名优秀猎人的意外费用，而且还预付了一笔小额预付款，以便他可以弥补台球上的一些损失。债务总额为一百六十英镑。班布里奇对自己的钱并不担心，因为他确信年轻的文西有支持者。但他需要一些东西来证明这一点，弗雷德首先给出了一张有他自己签名的账单。三个月后，他更新了这项法案，并由凯莱布·加斯 (Caleb Garth) 签名。在这两次事件中，弗雷德都充满信心，他应该亲自支付账单，因为他自己的希望中有足够的资金可供支配。你很难要求他的信心必须有外部事实的基础；我们知道，这种信心不那么粗糙和唯物主义：它是一种舒适的性格，引导我们期待天意的智慧或我们朋友的愚蠢，幸运的奥秘或我们崇高的个人价值的更大奥秘。宇宙，会带来令人愉快的问题，例如符合我们对服装的良好品味，以及我们对事物最佳风格的普遍偏好。 弗雷德确信他应该从叔叔那里得到一份礼物，他应该有运气，通过“交换”，他应该逐渐将一匹价值四十磅的马变成一匹随时可以卖一百磅的马—— “判决”总是相当于一笔未指定金额的现金。无论如何，即使假设只有病态的不信任才能想象的否定，弗雷德（当时）总是把他父亲的口袋作为最后的资源，因此他充满希望的资产有一种华丽的多余。对于父亲口袋里的容量，弗雷德只有一个模糊的概念：贸易不是有弹性的吗？一年的不足，不是可以用另一年的盈余来弥补吗？文西一家过着安逸奢侈的生活，没有任何新的炫耀，而是按照家庭的习惯和传统，因此孩子们没有经济标准，年长的孩子们保留了一些幼稚的想法，认为他们的父亲可能会支付费用。如果他愿意的话，什么都可以。文西先生本人也有昂贵的米德尔马奇习惯——在菜品、地窖和宴请上花钱，而妈妈则与商人有往来账户，这给人一种无需支付任何问题就能得到想要的一切的愉快感觉。但弗雷德知道，在开支问题上欺负一个人是父亲的天性：如果他不得不透露一笔债务，他的铺张浪费总是会引起一场小风暴，而弗雷德不喜欢室内的坏天气。 他太孝顺了，不能对父亲不敬，他承受了雷霆，确信这只是短暂的。但与此同时，看到他的母亲哭泣，而且不得不表现出闷闷不乐的样子，而不是开心，这让他很不舒服。因为弗雷德脾气很好，如果他在责骂下显得闷闷不乐，那主要是出于礼节。显然，更简单的做法是用朋友的签名更新账单。为什么不？由于他掌握着多余的希望保障，他没有理由不增加其他人的债务到任何程度，但事实是，那些名字对任何事情都有好处的人通常都是悲观主义者，不愿意相信普遍秩序对于一位和蔼可亲的年轻绅士来说，事情必然会令人愉快。

With a favor to ask we review our list of friends, do justice to their more amiable qualities, forgive their little offenses, and concerning each in turn, try to arrive at the conclusion that he will be eager to oblige us, our own eagerness to be obliged being as communicable as other warmth. Still there is always a certain number who are dismissed as but moderately eager until the others have refused; and it happened that Fred checked off all his friends but one, on the ground that applying to them would be disagreeable; being implicitly convinced that he at least (whatever might be maintained about mankind generally) had a right to be free from anything disagreeable. That he should ever fall into a thoroughly unpleasant position—wear trousers shrunk with washing, eat cold mutton, have to walk for want of a horse, or to ‘duck under’ in any sort of way—was an absurdity irreconcilable with those cheerful intuitions implanted in him by nature. And Fred winced under the idea of being looked down upon as wanting funds for small debts. Thus it came to pass that the friend whom he chose to apply to was at once the poorest and the kindest—namely, Caleb Garth.
带着请求的帮助，我们审查了我们的朋友名单，公正地对待他们更和蔼可亲的品质，原谅他们的小冒犯，并依次考虑每个人，试图得出这样的结论：他会渴望帮助我们，我们自己也渴望帮助我们。必须像其他温暖一样具有交流性。但总有一些人被认为只是中等程度的渴望而被解雇，直到其他人拒绝为止。碰巧弗雷德勾掉了他所有的朋友，只留下了一个，理由是向他们提出申请会令人不快。他暗自相信，他至少（无论对人类普遍的看法如何）有权免受任何令人不快的事物的影响。他应该陷入一种完全不愉快的境地——穿着洗过的缩水的裤子，吃冷羊肉，因为缺马而不得不走路，或者以任何方式“躲在下面”——这是一种与那些愉快的直觉不相容的荒谬。天生就植入他体内。弗雷德一想到因为需要资金偿还小额债务而被人瞧不起，他就皱起了眉头。因此，他选择申请的朋友既是最贫穷的，也是最善良的，即凯莱布·加思。

The Garths were very fond of Fred, as he was of them; for when he and Rosamond were little ones, and the Garths were better off, the slight connection between the two families through Mr. Featherstone’s double marriage (the first to Mr. Garth’s sister, and the second to Mrs. Vincy’s) had led to an acquaintance which was carried on between the children rather than the parents: the children drank tea together out of their toy teacups, and spent whole days together in play. Mary was a little hoyden, and Fred at six years old thought her the nicest girl in the world making her his wife with a brass ring which he had cut from an umbrella. Through all the stages of his education he had kept his affection for the Garths, and his habit of going to their house as a second home, though any intercourse between them and the elders of his family had long ceased. Even when Caleb Garth was prosperous, the Vincys were on condescending terms with him and his wife, for there were nice distinctions of rank in Middlemarch; and though old manufacturers could not any more than dukes be connected with none but equals, they were conscious of an inherent social superiority which was defined with great nicety in practice, though hardly expressible theoretically. Since then Mr. Garth had failed in the building business, which he had unfortunately added to his other avocations of surveyor, valuer, and agent, had conducted that business for a time entirely for the benefit of his assignees, and had been living narrowly, exerting himself to the utmost that he might after all pay twenty shillings in the pound. He had now achieved this, and from all who did not think it a bad precedent, his honorable exertions had won him due esteem; but in no part of the world is genteel visiting founded on esteem, in the absence of suitable furniture and complete dinner-service. Mrs. Vincy had never been at her ease with Mrs. Garth, and frequently spoke of her as a woman who had had to work for her bread— meaning that Mrs. Garth had been a teacher before her marriage; in which case an intimacy with Lindley Murray and Mangnall’s Questions was something like a draper’s discrimination of calico trademarks, or a courier’s acquaintance with foreign countries: no woman who was better off needed that sort of thing. And since Mary had been keeping Mr. Featherstone’s house, Mrs. Vincy’s want of liking for the Garths had been converted into something more positive, by alarm lest Fred should engage himself to this plain girl, whose parents ‘lived in such a small way.’ Fred, being aware of this, never spoke at home of his visits to Mrs. Garth, which had of late become more frequent, the increasing ardor of his affection for Mary inclining him the more towards those who belonged to her.
加斯夫妇非常喜欢弗雷德，正如他也喜欢他们一样。因为当他和罗莎蒙德还是小孩子的时候，加思一家的生活比较好，两个家庭之间通过费瑟斯通先生的双重婚姻（第一次是加思先生的妹妹，第二次是文西太太的妹妹）之间的轻微联系导致了这种认识是在孩子们之间而不是父母之间进行的：孩子们一起用玩具茶杯喝茶，整天一起玩耍。玛丽是一个小霍伊登，六岁的弗雷德认为她是世界上最好的女孩，用他从雨伞上剪下的黄铜戒指娶她为妻。在他接受教育的所有阶段中，他一直保持着对加思一家的感情，并习惯把他们的房子当作第二个家，尽管他们和家里的长辈之间的任何交往早已停止。即使凯莱布·加斯（Caleb Garth）很富有，文西家族对他和他的妻子也抱有居高临下的态度，因为米德尔马契的等级差别很大。尽管古老的制造商只能与公爵平等地联系在一起，但他们意识到一种固有的社会优越性，这种优越性在实践中得到了很好的定义，尽管在理论上很难表达。从那时起，加思先生在建筑业务上失败了，不幸的是，他将建筑业务添加到了测量师、估价师和代理人的其他职业中，一度完全为了他的受让人的利益而从事这项业务，并且一直过着狭隘的生活，他竭尽全力，最终能支付二十先令的英镑。 现在，他已经实现了这一目标，所有不认为这是一个坏先例的人都认为，他的光荣努力为他赢得了应有的尊重。但世界上任何地方的优雅访问都不是建立在尊重的基础上的，因为没有合适的家具和完整的晚餐服务。文西夫人与加斯夫人相处的时候一直不自在，经常说她是一个必须靠工作养家糊口的女人——这意味着加斯夫人在结婚前曾是一名教师；她的父亲是一名教师。在这种情况下，与林德利·默里和曼纳尔的问题的亲密关系就像布料商对印花布商标的歧视，或者快递员对外国的熟悉：没有一个生活富裕的女人需要这样的事情。由于玛丽一直在管理费瑟斯通先生的房子，文西夫人对加思一家的喜爱已经转化为更积极的东西，因为她担心弗雷德会与这个朴素的女孩订婚，她的父母“生活得如此狭隘”。弗雷德意识到了这一点，从来没有在家里谈论过他对加斯太太的拜访，最近这种拜访变得更加频繁，他对玛丽的感情日益炽热，使他更加倾向于那些属于她的人。

Mr. Garth had a small office in the town, and to this Fred went with his request. He obtained it without much difficulty, for a large amount of painful experience had not sufficed to make Caleb Garth cautious about his own affairs, or distrustful of his fellow-men when they had not proved themselves untrustworthy; and he had the highest opinion of Fred, was ‘sure the lad would turn out well—an open affectionate fellow, with a good bottom to his character—you might trust him for anything.’ Such was Caleb’s psychological argument. He was one of those rare men who are rigid to themselves and indulgent to others. He had a certain shame about his neighbors’ errors, and never spoke of them willingly; hence he was not likely to divert his mind from the best mode of hardening timber and other ingenious devices in order to preconceive those errors. If he had to blame any one, it was necessary for him to move all the papers within his reach, or describe various diagrams with his stick, or make calculations with the odd money in his pocket, before he could begin; and he would rather do other men’s work than find fault with their doing. I fear he was a bad disciplinarian.
加斯先生在镇上有一个小办公室，弗雷德同意了他的要求。他毫不费力地获得了它，因为大量的痛苦经历并不足以使凯莱布·加斯对自己的事情保持谨慎，或者在他的同胞们没有证明自己不值得信任时对他们产生不信任；但他的努力并没有使他们变得不信任。他对弗雷德的评价最高，“确信这小伙子会发展得很好——一个开放、深情的家伙，性格底蕴深厚——你可以相信他做任何事情。”这就是凯莱布的心理论点。他是罕见的对自己严格而对他人宽容的人之一。他对邻居的错误感到羞愧，从不主动谈论这些错误。因此，他不太可能为了预先设想这些错误而将自己的注意力从硬化木材的最佳模式和其他巧妙的装置上转移开。如果要责怪谁，他必须把所有的文件搬到他能拿到的地方，或者用棍子画出各种图表，或者用口袋里的零钱进行计算，然后才能开始；他宁愿做别人的工作，也不愿挑剔别人的工作。我担心他是一个不遵守纪律的人。

When Fred stated the circumstances of his debt, his wish to meet it without troubling his father, and the certainty that the money would be forthcoming so as to cause no one any inconvenience, Caleb pushed his spectacles upward, listened, looked into his favorite’s clear young eyes, and believed him, not distinguishing confidence about the future from veracity about the past; but he felt that it was an occasion for a friendly hint as to conduct, and that before giving his signature he must give a rather strong admonition. Accordingly, he took the paper and lowered his spectacles, measured the space at his command, reached his pen and examined it, dipped it in the ink and examined it again, then pushed the paper a little way from him, lifted up his spectacles again, showed a deepened depression in the outer angle of his bushy eyebrows, which gave his face a peculiar mildness (pardon these details for once—you would have learned to love them if you had known Caleb Garth), and said in a comfortable tone—
当弗雷德说明了他的债务情况，他希望在不打扰父亲的情况下偿还债务，并确信这笔钱很快就会到账，以免给任何人带来任何不便时，凯莱布将眼镜向上推了推，听着，看着他最喜欢的人的透明眼镜。年轻的眼睛，相信他，不区分对未来的信心和对过去的真实性；但他觉得这是一个友好暗示行为的机会，在签字之前他必须给予一个相当强烈的警告。于是，他拿起纸，低下眼镜，按照他的命令测量空间，拿起笔检查，将其浸入墨水中再检查一次，然后将纸推离他一点，再次抬起眼镜。浓密的眉毛外角处呈现出更深的凹陷，这让他的脸显得格外温和（请原谅这些细节一次——如果你认识凯莱布·加斯，你就会学会爱上它们），并用一种​​舒适的语气说道——

‘It was a misfortune, eh, that breaking the horse’s knees? And then, these exchanges, they don’t answer when you have ‘cute jockeys to deal with. You’ll be wiser another time, my boy.’
“马的膝盖被折断了，这真是不幸吗？”然后，当你有“可爱的骑师要对付”时，这些交流他们不会回答。下次你会变得更聪明的，我的孩子。

Whereupon Caleb drew down his spectacles, and proceeded to write his signature with the care which he always gave to that performance; for whatever he did in the way of business he did well. He contemplated the large well-proportioned letters and final flourish, with his head a trifle on one side for an instant, then handed it to Fred, said ‘Good-by,’ and returned forthwith to his absorption in a plan for Sir James Chettam’s new farm-buildings.
于是，凯莱布摘下眼镜，开始以他在表演中一贯的小心翼翼的态度写下自己的签名。因为无论他做什么生意，他都做得很好。他沉思着那些大而匀称的字母和最后的华丽，他的头稍微偏向一侧，片刻，然后把它递给弗雷德，说了声“再见”，然后立即回到他的全神贯注于詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士的计划中。新的农场建筑。

Either because his interest in this work thrust the incident of the signature from his memory, or for some reason of which Caleb was more conscious, Mrs. Garth remained ignorant of the affair.
要么是因为他对这项工作的兴趣将签名事件从他的记忆中抹去了，要么是由于凯莱布更清楚的某种原因，加斯夫人仍然对这件事一无所知。

Since it occurred, a change had come over Fred’s sky, which altered his view of the distance, and was the reason why his uncle Featherstone’s present of money was of importance enough to make his color come and go, first with a too definite expectation, and afterwards with a proportionate disappointment. His failure in passing his examination, had made his accumulation of college debts the more unpardonable by his father, and there had been an unprecedented storm at home. Mr. Vincy had sworn that if he had anything more of that sort to put up with, Fred should turn out and get his living how he could; and he had never yet quite recovered his good-humored tone to his son, who had especially enraged him by saying at this stage of things that he did not want to be a clergyman, and would rather not ‘go on with that.’ Fred was conscious that he would have been yet more severely dealt with if his family as well as himself had not secretly regarded him as Mr. Featherstone’s heir; that old gentleman’s pride in him, and apparent fondness for him, serving in the stead of more exemplary conduct—just as when a youthful nobleman steals jewellery we call the act kleptomania, speak of it with a philosophical smile, and never think of his being sent to the house of correction as if he were a ragged boy who had stolen turnips. In fact, tacit expectations of what would be done for him by uncle Featherstone determined the angle at which most people viewed Fred Vincy in Middlemarch; and in his own consciousness, what uncle Featherstone would do for him in an emergency, or what he would do simply as an incorporated luck, formed always an immeasurable depth of aerial perspective. But that present of bank-notes, once made, was measurable, and being applied to the amount of the debt, showed a deficit which had still to be filled up either by Fred’s ‘judgment’ or by luck in some other shape. For that little episode of the alleged borrowing, in which he had made his father the agent in getting the Bulstrode certificate, was a new reason against going to his father for money towards meeting his actual debt. Fred was keen enough to foresee that anger would confuse distinctions, and that his denial of having borrowed expressly on the strength of his uncle’s will would be taken as a falsehood. He had gone to his father and told him one vexatious affair, and he had left another untold: in such cases the complete revelation always produces the impression of a previous duplicity. Now Fred piqued himself on keeping clear of lies, and even fibs; he often shrugged his shoulders and made a significant grimace at what he called Rosamond’s fibs (it is only brothers who can associate such ideas with a lovely girl); and rather than incur the accusation of falsehood he would even incur some trouble and self-restraint. It was under strong inward pressure of this kind that Fred had taken the wise step of depositing the eighty pounds with his mother. It was a pity that he had not at once given them to Mr. Garth; but he meant to make the sum complete with another sixty, and with a view to this, he had kept twenty pounds in his own pocket as a sort of seed-corn, which, planted by judgment, and watered by luck, might yield more than threefold—a very poor rate of multiplication when the field is a young gentleman’s infinite soul, with all the numerals at command.
自从这件事发生以来，弗雷德的天空发生了变化，这改变了他对距离的看法，这就是为什么他叔叔费瑟斯通的金钱礼物如此重要，足以让他的颜色来来去去，首先是带着过于明确的期望，然后伴随着相应的失望。考试不及格，让他累积的大学债务更加令父亲难以原谅，家里也掀起了一场前所未有的风暴。文西先生发誓，如果他还有这样的事情可以忍受，弗雷德就应该出来谋生。他还没有完全恢复对儿子的幽默语气，儿子在这个阶段说他不想成为一名牧师，并且宁愿“不再这样做”，这尤其激怒了他。他意识到，如果他的家人和他自己没有秘密地把他视为费瑟斯通先生的继承人，他会受到更严厉的对待；这位老绅士对他的骄傲，以及对他明显的喜爱，代替了更模范的行为——就像一个年轻的贵族偷窃珠宝时，我们称之为盗窃癖的行为，带着哲学般的微笑谈论它，却从未想到过他的存在把他送进教养所，就好像他是一个偷萝卜的衣衫褴褛的男孩一样。事实上，对费瑟斯通叔叔会为他做的事情的默认预期决定了大多数人看待《米德尔马契》中弗雷德·文西的角度。在他自己的意识中，费瑟斯通叔叔在紧急情况下会为他做什么，或者他只是因为运气而做的事情，总是形成一种无法估量的空中透视深度。 但是，这份纸币礼物一旦制作出来，就可以衡量，并应用于债务金额，显示出赤字，仍需通过弗雷德的“判断”或其他形式的运气来填补。在所谓的借款事件中，他让父亲成为获得布尔斯特罗德证书的代理人，这是他反对向父亲要钱来偿还实际债务的新理由。弗雷德敏锐地预见到，愤怒会混淆界限，他否认自己是根据叔叔的意愿明确借钱的，这将被视为谎言。他去找他的父亲，告诉了他一件令人恼火的事情，而他却留下了另一件不为人知的事情：在这种情况下，彻底的揭露总是会产生以前口是心非的印象。现在，弗雷德对自己不说谎、甚至撒谎感到很恼火。他经常耸耸肩，对他所谓的罗莎蒙德的谎言做出一个明显的鬼脸（只有兄弟才能将这种想法与一个可爱的女孩联系起来）。他宁愿招致一些麻烦和自我克制，也不愿招致谎言的指控。正是在这种强大的内心压力下，弗雷德采取了明智的步骤，将八十英镑存给了他的母亲。遗憾的是他没有立即把它们交给加斯先生。但他打算再补上六十英镑，为此，他在自己的口袋里放了二十英镑作为一种玉米种子，凭着判断力种植，靠运气浇灌，可能会结出更多的果实。不到三倍——当领域是一位年轻绅士的无限灵魂，所有数字都在掌控之中时，这是一个非常糟糕的乘法率。

Fred was not a gambler: he had not that specific disease in which the suspension of the whole nervous energy on a chance or risk becomes as necessary as the dram to the drunkard; he had only the tendency to that diffusive form of gambling which has no alcoholic intensity, but is carried on with the healthiest chyle-fed blood, keeping up a joyous imaginative activity which fashions events according to desire, and having no fears about its own weather, only sees the advantage there must be to others in going aboard with it. Hopefulness has a pleasure in making a throw of any kind, because the prospect of success is certain; and only a more generous pleasure in offering as many as possible a share in the stake. Fred liked play, especially billiards, as he liked hunting or riding a steeple-chase; and he only liked it the better because he wanted money and hoped to win. But the twenty pounds’ worth of seed-corn had been planted in vain in the seductive green plot—all of it at least which had not been dispersed by the roadside—and Fred found himself close upon the term of payment with no money at command beyond the eighty pounds which he had deposited with his mother. The broken-winded horse which he rode represented a present which had been made to him a long while ago by his uncle Featherstone: his father always allowed him to keep a horse, Mr. Vincy’s own habits making him regard this as a reasonable demand even for a son who was rather exasperating. This horse, then, was Fred’s property, and in his anxiety to meet the imminent bill he determined to sacrifice a possession without which life would certainly be worth little. He made the resolution with a sense of heroism—heroism forced on him by the dread of breaking his word to Mr. Garth, by his love for Mary and awe of her opinion. He would start for Houndsley horse-fair which was to be held the next morning, and—simply sell his horse, bringing back the money by coach?—Well, the horse would hardly fetch more than thirty pounds, and there was no knowing what might happen; it would be folly to balk himself of luck beforehand. It was a hundred to one that some good chance would fall in his way; the longer he thought of it, the less possible it seemed that he should not have a good chance, and the less reasonable that he should not equip himself with the powder and shot for bringing it down. He would ride to Houndsley with Bambridge and with Horrock ‘the vet,’ and without asking them anything expressly, he should virtually get the benefit of their opinion. Before he set out, Fred got the eighty pounds from his mother.
弗雷德不是一个赌徒：他没有那种特殊的疾病，在这种疾病中，为了机会或风险而必须暂停整个神经能量，就像醉汉喝烈酒一样；他没有患上这种疾病。他只是倾向于那种没有酒精浓度的扩散形式的赌博，而是用最健康的乳糜喂养的血液进行，保持一种快乐的想象力活动，根据欲望塑造事件，并且不担心自己的天气，只看到了加入它对其他人一定有的好处。充满希望的人乐于进行任何类型的尝试，因为成功的前景是确定的。并且只有更慷慨地提供尽可能多的股份。弗雷德喜欢玩耍，尤其是台球，因为他喜欢打猎或骑马障碍赛。他更喜欢这样，因为他想要钱并且希望获胜。但是，价值二十英镑的玉米种子却白白地种在了那片诱人的绿地上——至少所有这些都没有散落在路边——弗雷德发现自己即将到期，却没有钱可以支配。除了他存给母亲的八十英镑之外。他骑的那匹破马代表着他叔叔费瑟斯通很久以前送给他的一份礼物：他的父亲总是允许他养一匹马，文西先生自己的习惯使他认为这是一个合理的要求，甚至对于一个相当令人恼火的儿子。那么，这匹马就是弗雷德的财产，出于对即将到来的账单的焦虑，他决定牺牲这一财产，没有它，生命肯定毫无价值。他带着一种英雄主义的感觉做出了这个决定——这种英雄主义是由于害怕违背对先生的诺言而强加给他的。 加斯，因为他对玛丽的爱和对她观点的敬畏。他将出发去第二天早上举行的亨兹利马市，然后——干脆卖掉他的马，用马车带回来钱？——嗯，这匹马很难卖到超过三十英镑，而且不知道什么可能发生;事先就拒绝运气是愚蠢的。某个好机会降临到他身上的概率是一百比一。他想得越久，就越觉得自己没有什么好机会，也就越觉得自己不应该装备火药和炮弹来击落它，就越不合理。他会和班布里奇以及“兽医”霍罗克一起骑车去亨兹利，无需明确询问他们任何事情，他实际上应该从他们的意见中受益。出发前，弗雷德从母亲那里得到了八十英镑。

Most of those who saw Fred riding out of Middlemarch in company with Bambridge and Horrock, on his way of course to Houndsley horse-fair, thought that young Vincy was pleasure-seeking as usual; and but for an unwonted consciousness of grave matters on hand, he himself would have had a sense of dissipation, and of doing what might be expected of a gay young fellow. Considering that Fred was not at all coarse, that he rather looked down on the manners and speech of young men who had not been to the university, and that he had written stanzas as pastoral and unvoluptuous as his flute-playing, his attraction towards Bambridge and Horrock was an interesting fact which even the love of horse-flesh would not wholly account for without that mysterious influence of Naming which determinates so much of mortal choice. Under any other name than ‘pleasure’ the society of Messieurs Bambridge and Horrock must certainly have been regarded as monotonous; and to arrive with them at Houndsley on a drizzling afternoon, to get down at the Red Lion in a street shaded with coal-dust, and dine in a room furnished with a dirt-enamelled map of the county, a bad portrait of an anonymous horse in a stable, His Majesty George the Fourth with legs and cravat, and various leaden spittoons, might have seemed a hard business, but for the sustaining power of nomenclature which determined that the pursuit of these things was ‘gay.’
大多数人看到弗雷德与班布里奇和霍罗克一起骑马离开米德尔马奇，当然是去亨兹利马市，他们都认为年轻的文西像往常一样在寻求享乐。如果不是因为他对眼前的严重事情有一种不寻常的意识，他自己就会有一种放荡的感觉，做着一个同性恋年轻人可能会做的事情。考虑到弗雷德一点也不粗鲁，他相当瞧不起没上过大学的年轻人的举止和言谈，而且他写的诗节就像他吹笛子一样田园诗般的、不淫荡的，他对班布里奇的吸引力霍罗克是一个有趣的事实，如果没有命名的神秘影响，即使是对马肉的热爱也无法完全解释这一事实，命名决定了如此多的凡人选择。除了“快乐”以外，班布里奇先生和霍罗克先生的社交肯定会被认为是单调的。在一个细雨蒙蒙的下午和他们一起到达亨兹利，在煤尘遮蔽的街道上的红狮餐厅下榻，在一间配有一张肮脏的县地图的房间里吃饭，那是一幅匿名者的糟糕肖像。马厩里的马、长着腿和领带的乔治四世陛下以及各种铅制痰盂，如果不是因为命名法的持续力量决定了对这些东西的追求是“快乐的”，这似乎是一件困难的事情。

In Mr. Horrock there was certainly an apparent unfathomableness which offered play to the imagination. Costume, at a glance, gave him a thrilling association with horses (enough to specify the hat-brim which took the slightest upward angle just to escape the suspicion of bending downwards), and nature had given him a face which by dint of Mongolian eyes, and a nose, mouth, and chin seeming to follow his hat-brim in a moderate inclination upwards, gave the effect of a subdued unchangeable sceptical smile, of all expressions the most tyrannous over a susceptible mind, and, when accompanied by adequate silence, likely to create the reputation of an invincible understanding, an infinite fund of humor— too dry to flow, and probably in a state of immovable crust,— and a critical judgment which, if you could ever be fortunate enough to know it, would be THE thing and no other. It is a physiognomy seen in all vocations, but perhaps it has never been more powerful over the youth of England than in a judge of horses.
霍罗克先生身上确实有一种明显的深不可测的气质，可以发挥想象力。乍一看，他的服装让他与马产生了一种令人兴奋的联系（足以说明帽檐略微向上倾斜，只是为了避免向下弯腰的嫌疑），而大自然赋予他一张蒙古人眼睛的脸。鼻子、嘴巴和下巴似乎沿着他的帽檐向上倾斜，给人一种柔和的、不可改变的怀疑微笑的效果，在所有表情中，对易受影响的心灵来说，这是最专横的，而且，当伴随着足够的沉默时，可能会创造无敌理解力的声誉，无限的幽默感（太干涩而无法流动，并且可能处于不可移动的外壳状态），以及批判性的判断力，如果你有幸知道它，成为事物，而不是其他。这是一种在所有职业中都能见到的相貌，但也许它对英格兰年轻人的影响力从未像马匹裁判员那样强大。

Mr. Horrock, at a question from Fred about his horse’s fetlock, turned sideways in his saddle, and watched the horse’s action for the space of three minutes, then turned forward, twitched his own bridle, and remained silent with a profile neither more nor less sceptical than it had been.
霍罗克先生在听到弗雷德询问他的马的球节时，在马鞍上侧身，观察了马的动作三分钟，然后向前转过身来，抽动自己的缰绳，保持沉默，既没有表情，也没有表情。比以前更少怀疑了。

The part thus played in dialogue by Mr. Horrock was terribly effective. A mixture of passions was excited in Fred—a mad desire to thrash Horrock’s opinion into utterance, restrained by anxiety to retain the advantage of his friendship. There was always the chance that Horrock might say something quite invaluable at the right moment.
霍罗克先生在对话中所扮演的角色非常有效。弗雷德心中激起了一种混合的激情——一种疯狂的欲望，想要将霍罗克的观点表达出来，但又因为担心保持友谊的优势而受到抑制。霍罗克总有可能在适当的时候说出一些无价的话。

Mr. Bambridge had more open manners, and appeared to give forth his ideas without economy. He was loud, robust, and was sometimes spoken of as being ‘given to indulgence’—chiefly in swearing, drinking, and beating his wife. Some people who had lost by him called him a vicious man; but he regarded horse-dealing as the finest of the arts, and might have argued plausibly that it had nothing to do with morality. He was undeniably a prosperous man, bore his drinking better than others bore their moderation, and, on the whole, flourished like the green bay-tree. But his range of conversation was limited, and like the fine old tune, ‘Drops of brandy,’ gave you after a while a sense of returning upon itself in a way that might make weak heads dizzy. But a slight infusion of Mr. Bambridge was felt to give tone and character to several circles in Middlemarch; and he was a distinguished figure in the bar and billiard-room at the Green Dragon. He knew some anecdotes about the heroes of the turf, and various clever tricks of Marquesses and Viscounts which seemed to prove that blood asserted its pre-eminence even among black-legs; but the minute retentiveness of his memory was chiefly shown about the horses he had himself bought and sold; the number of miles they would trot you in no time without turning a hair being, after the lapse of years, still a subject of passionate asseveration, in which he would assist the imagination of his hearers by solemnly swearing that they never saw anything like it. In short, Mr. Bambridge was a man of pleasure and a gay companion.
班布里奇先生的举止比较开放，似乎不吝惜地表达自己的想法。他声音大、身体强健，有时被认为“纵欲”——主要是咒骂、酗酒和殴打妻子。有的被他打败的人骂他是恶人；但他认为马术是最优秀的艺术，并且可能会合理地辩称它与道德无关。不可否认，他是一个富有的人，比其他人更能忍受饮酒，而且，总的来说，他像绿色的月桂树一样蓬勃发展。但他的谈话范围很有限，就像那首优美的老曲子“滴白兰地”一样，过了一会儿，你就会有一种回归自我的感觉，这种感觉可能会让软弱的头脑感到头晕。但班布里奇先生的轻微注入，给米德尔马契的几个圈子带来了基调和个性。他是绿龙酒店酒吧和台球室里的杰出人物。他知道一些关于地盘英雄的轶事，以及侯爵和子爵的各种巧妙伎俩，这似乎证明血统即使在黑腿中也具有卓越的地位；但他的记忆力主要表现在他自己买卖的马匹上。他们会毫不犹豫地小跑多少英里，多年过去了，仍然是一个充满激情的话题，在其中，他会庄严地发誓他们从未见过这样的事情，以帮助听众的想象力。简而言之，班布里奇先生是一个享乐的人，也是一个快乐的伴侣。

Fred was subtle, and did not tell his friends that he was going to Houndsley bent on selling his horse: he wished to get indirectly at their genuine opinion of its value, not being aware that a genuine opinion was the last thing likely to be extracted from such eminent critics. It was not Mr. Bambridge’s weakness to be a gratuitous flatterer. He had never before been so much struck with the fact that this unfortunate bay was a roarer to a degree which required the roundest word for perdition to give you any idea of it.
弗雷德很狡猾，没有告诉他的朋友他要去亨兹利一心想卖掉他的马：他希望间接了解他们对马匹价值的真实看法，却没有意识到真正的看法是最后可能被提取的东西来自如此著名的批评家。无端奉承并不是班布里奇先生的弱点。他以前从未如此震惊过，这个不幸的海湾咆哮到了需要用最圆滑的“毁灭”这个词才能让你明白的程度。

‘You made a bad hand at swapping when you went to anybody but me, Vincy! Why, you never threw your leg across a finer horse than that chestnut, and you gave him for this brute. If you set him cantering, he goes on like twenty sawyers. I never heard but one worse roarer in my life, and that was a roan: it belonged to Pegwell, the corn-factor; he used to drive him in his gig seven years ago, and he wanted me to take him, but I said, ‘Thank you, Peg, I don’t deal in wind-instruments.’ That was what I said. It went the round of the country, that joke did. But, what the hell! the horse was a penny trumpet to that roarer of yours.’
‘你在交换方面做得很糟糕，当你去找除我以外的任何人时，文西！哎呀，你从来没有把腿扔到比那匹栗子更好的马身上，你却把他给了这个畜生。如果你让他慢跑，他就会像二十个锯木工一样继续前进。我一生中从未听过比这更糟糕的咆哮声，那就是杂叫声：它属于佩格韦尔，玉米因子；它属于佩格韦尔，是玉米因子；它属于佩格韦尔，它属于玉米因子。七年前，他经常开车送他去演出，他想让我带他去，但我说，“谢谢你，佩格，我不做管乐器生意。”我就是这么说的。这个笑话传遍了全国。但是，到底是什么！对于你那个咆哮的人来说，这匹马是一个小喇叭。

‘Why, you said just now his was worse than mine,’ said Fred, more irritable than usual.
“哎呀，你刚才说他的比我的更糟糕，”弗雷德说，他比平常更烦躁。

‘I said a lie, then,’ said Mr. Bambridge, emphatically. ‘There wasn’t a penny to choose between ‘em.’
“那么，我说了谎，”班布里奇先生强调道。 “他们之间没有一分钱可供选择。”

Fred spurred his horse, and they trotted on a little way. When they slackened again, Mr. Bambridge said—
弗雷德策马，他们小跑了一小段路。当他们再次放松下来时，班布里奇先生说——

‘Not but what the roan was a better trotter than yours.’
“不是，但是马蹄马比你的马蹄好。”

‘I’m quite satisfied with his paces, I know,’ said Fred, who required all the consciousness of being in gay company to support him; ‘I say his trot is an uncommonly clean one, eh, Horrock?’
“我知道，我对他的步伐非常满意，”弗雷德说，他需要所有与同性恋为伴的意识来支持他； “我说他的小跑非常干净，嗯，霍罗克？”

Mr. Horrock looked before him with as complete a neutrality as if he had been a portrait by a great master.
霍罗克先生以一种完全中立的态度看着他，仿佛他是一位伟大大师的肖像。

Fred gave up the fallacious hope of getting a genuine opinion; but on reflection he saw that Bambridge’s depreciation and Horrock’s silence were both virtually encouraging, and indicated that they thought better of the horse than they chose to say.
弗雷德放弃了获得真实意见的错误希望。但转念一想，他发现班布里奇的贬低和霍罗克的沉默实际上都令人鼓舞，这表明他们对这匹马的看法比他们选择说的要好。

That very evening, indeed, before the fair had set in, Fred thought he saw a favorable opening for disposing advantageously of his horse, but an opening which made him congratulate himself on his foresight in bringing with him his eighty pounds. A young farmer, acquainted with Mr. Bambridge, came into the Red Lion, and entered into conversation about parting with a hunter, which he introduced at once as Diamond, implying that it was a public character. For himself he only wanted a useful hack, which would draw upon occasion; being about to marry and to give up hunting. The hunter was in a friend’s stable at some little distance; there was still time for gentlemen to see it before dark. The friend’s stable had to be reached through a back street where you might as easily have been poisoned without expense of drugs as in any grim street of that unsanitary period. Fred was not fortified against disgust by brandy, as his companions were, but the hope of having at last seen the horse that would enable him to make money was exhilarating enough to lead him over the same ground again the first thing in the morning. He felt sure that if he did not come to a bargain with the farmer, Bambridge would; for the stress of circumstances, Fred felt, was sharpening his acuteness and endowing him with all the constructive power of suspicion. Bambridge had run down Diamond in a way that he never would have done (the horse being a friend’s) if he had not thought of buying it; every one who looked at the animal—even Horrock—was evidently impressed with its merit. To get all the advantage of being with men of this sort, you must know how to draw your inferences, and not be a spoon who takes things literally. The color of the horse was a dappled gray, and Fred happened to know that Lord Medlicote’s man was on the look-out for just such a horse. After all his running down, Bambridge let it out in the course of the evening, when the farmer was absent, that he had seen worse horses go for eighty pounds. Of course he contradicted himself twenty times over, but when you know what is likely to be true you can test a man’s admissions. And Fred could not but reckon his own judgment of a horse as worth something. The farmer had paused over Fred’s respectable though broken-winded steed long enough to show that he thought it worth consideration, and it seemed probable that he would take it, with five-and-twenty pounds in addition, as the equivalent of Diamond. In that case Fred, when he had parted with his new horse for at least eighty pounds, would be fifty-five pounds in pocket by the transaction, and would have a hundred and thirty-five pounds towards meeting the bill; so that the deficit temporarily thrown on Mr. Garth would at the utmost be twenty-five pounds. By the time he was hurrying on his clothes in the morning, he saw so clearly the importance of not losing this rare chance, that if Bambridge and Horrock had both dissuaded him, he would not have been deluded into a direct interpretation of their purpose: he would have been aware that those deep hands held something else than a young fellow’s interest. With regard to horses, distrust was your only clew. But scepticism, as we know, can never be thoroughly applied, else life would come to a standstill: something we must believe in and do, and whatever that something may be called, it is virtually our own judgment, even when it seems like the most slavish reliance on another. Fred believed in the excellence of his bargain, and even before the fair had well set in, had got possession of the dappled gray, at the price of his old horse and thirty pounds in addition—only five pounds more than he had expected to give.
事实上，那天晚上，在集市开始之前，弗雷德认为他看到了一个有利的机会来处理他的马，但这个机会让他庆幸自己带着八十磅的远见。一位熟悉班布里奇先生的年轻农民走进了红狮，并开始谈论与猎人的分别，他立即将其介绍为钻石，暗示这是一个公共人物。对于他自己来说，他只想要一个有用的技巧，可以在需要的时候使用。即将结婚并放弃狩猎。猎人在不远处一个朋友的马厩里。天黑之前先生们还有时间参观。朋友的马厩必须通过一条后街才能到达，在那里你不用花钱就很容易中毒，就像在那个不卫生时期的任何可怕的街道上一样。弗雷德不像他的同伴那样，通过白兰地来增强自己的厌恶感，但他终于看到了那匹能让他赚钱的马，这一希望让他兴奋不已，早上第一件事就让他再次踏上同样的土地。他确信，即使他不与农民讨价还价，班布里奇也会这样做；弗雷德觉得，环境的压力正在增强他的敏锐性，并赋予他所有建设性的怀疑力量。如果班布里奇没有想买下戴蒙德的话，他绝不会这么做（这匹马是他朋友的）。每个看过这种动物的人——甚至霍罗克——显然都对其优点印象深刻。为了充分利用与这类男人在一起的优势，你必须知道如何做出推论，而不是只从字面上理解事情。 这匹马的颜色是斑驳的灰色，弗雷德碰巧知道梅德利科特勋爵的人正在寻找这样一匹马。班布里奇在跑完所有的马匹后，在那天晚上农夫不在的时候，他说他见过更差的马能卖八十磅。当然，他自相矛盾了二十次，但是当你知道什么可能是真的时，你就可以检验一个人的承认。弗雷德不得不认为他自己对一匹马的判断是有价值的。农夫在弗雷德那匹令人尊敬但气喘吁吁的马前停了下来，足以表明他认为这匹马值得考虑，而且他似乎很可能会接受它，再加上五磅和二十磅，作为钻石的等价物。在这种情况下，当弗雷德以至少八十英镑的价格卖掉他的新马时，这笔交易的口袋里将有五十五英镑，并且将有一百三十五英镑用于支付账单；这样一来，加斯先生暂时的赤字最多就是二十五英镑。当他早上匆匆穿衣服时，他清楚地看到了不要失去这个难得机会的重要性，如果班布里奇和霍罗克都劝阻他，他就不会被欺骗而直接解释他们的目的：他会意识到，那双深邃的手握着的不仅仅是一个年轻人的兴趣。关于马，不信任是你唯一的线索。但正如我们所知，怀疑主义永远无法彻底应用，否则生活将陷入停滞：我们必须相信并做一些事情，无论这件事被称为什么，它实际上是我们自己的判断，即使它看起来像是我们自己的判断。对他人最盲目的依赖。 弗雷德相信自己的讨价还价非常划算，甚至在集市开始之前，就以他的老马和三十英镑的价格获得了斑纹灰马，只比他预期的多了五英镑。 。

But he felt a little worried and wearied, perhaps with mental debate, and without waiting for the further gayeties of the horse-fair, he set out alone on his fourteen miles’ journey, meaning to take it very quietly and keep his horse fresh.
但他感到有点担心和疲倦，也许是因为精神上的争论，他没有等待马市的进一步欢乐，就独自出发了十四英里的旅程，打算非常安静地走下去，让他的马保持活力。

CHAPTER XXIV
第二十四章

‘The offender’s sorrow brings but small relief
“罪犯的悲伤只能带来一点点安慰

To him who wears the strong offence’s cross.’
致那些佩戴着强烈进攻十字架的人。

—SHAKESPEARE: Sonnets.
——莎士比亚：十四行诗。

I am sorry to say that only the third day after the propitious events at Houndsley Fred Vincy had fallen into worse spirits than he had known in his life before. Not that he had been disappointed as to the possible market for his horse, but that before the bargain could be concluded with Lord Medlicote’s man, this Diamond, in which hope to the amount of eighty pounds had been invested, had without the slightest warning exhibited in the stable a most vicious energy in kicking, had just missed killing the groom, and had ended in laming himself severely by catching his leg in a rope that overhung the stable-board. There was no more redress for this than for the discovery of bad temper after marriage— which of course old companions were aware of before the ceremony. For some reason or other, Fred had none of his usual elasticity under this stroke of ill-fortune: he was simply aware that he had only fifty pounds, that there was no chance of his getting any more at present, and that the bill for a hundred and sixty would be presented in five days. Even if he had applied to his father on the plea that Mr. Garth should be saved from loss, Fred felt smartingly that his father would angrily refuse to rescue Mr. Garth from the consequence of what he would call encouraging extravagance and deceit. He was so utterly downcast that he could frame no other project than to go straight to Mr. Garth and tell him the sad truth, carrying with him the fifty pounds, and getting that sum at least safely out of his own hands. His father, being at the warehouse, did not yet know of the accident: when he did, he would storm about the vicious brute being brought into his stable; and before meeting that lesser annoyance Fred wanted to get away with all his courage to face the greater. He took his father’s nag, for he had made up his mind that when he had told Mr. Garth, he would ride to Stone Court and confess all to Mary. In fact, it is probable that but for Mary’s existence and Fred’s love for her, his conscience would hare been much less active both in previously urging the debt on his thought and impelling him not to spare himself after his usual fashion by deferring an unpleasant task, but to act as directly and simply as he could. Even much stronger mortals than Fred Vincy hold half their rectitude in the mind of the being they love best. ‘The theatre of all my actions is fallen,’ said an antique personage when his chief friend was dead; and they are fortunate who get a theatre where the audience demands their best. Certainly it would have made a considerable difference to Fred at that time if Mary Garth had had no decided notions as to what was admirable in character.
我很遗憾地说，就在亨兹利的吉祥事件发生后的第三天，弗雷德·文西的情绪就变得比他一生中所知道的还要糟糕。并不是说他对他的马可能的市场感到失望，而是在与梅德利科特勋爵的人达成交易之前，这颗钻石，其希望投入了八十英镑，在没有任何警告的情况下就表现出来了在马厩里，他用最恶毒的力量踢腿，差点没杀死新郎，结果他的腿被挂在马厩板上的一根绳子绊住了，严重地跛了脚。对此，除了婚后发现脾气暴躁之外，没有什么比这更好的补救措施了——当然，老朋友们在仪式之前就知道了这一点。出于某种原因，弗雷德在这次不幸的打击下失去了往常的弹性：他只是意识到自己只有五十英镑，目前没有机会再得到更多，而且账单也很重要。五天内将提交一百六十份。即使他向父亲提出请求，请求挽救加斯先生免受损失，弗雷德还是感到刺痛，因为他的父亲会愤怒地拒绝拯救加斯先生，使他免受他所谓的鼓励铺张浪费和欺骗的后果的影响。他实在是太沮丧了，除了直接去找加斯先生告诉他这个悲伤的事实之外，他别无选择，随身带着五十英镑，至少安全地从他自己手中拿到这笔钱。他的父亲当时在仓库，还不知道这起事故：当他知道时，他会对这只凶恶的野兽被带进他的马厩大发雷霆；在遇到较小的烦恼之前，弗雷德想鼓足勇气去面对更大的烦恼。 他骑着父亲的马，因为他已经下定决心，当他告诉加斯先生时，他会骑马去斯通庭院，向玛丽坦白一切。事实上，如果没有玛丽的存在和弗雷德对她的爱，他的良心可能不会那么活跃，既会催促他思想上的债务，又会迫使他不要像往常那样推迟一项不愉快的任务来节省自己。 ，但要尽可能直接、简单地行事。即使是比弗莱德·文西强大得多的凡人，也会在他们最爱的人心中保持一半的正直。一位古董人物在他的主要朋友去世后说道：“我所有行动的舞台都已陷落。”他们很幸运，能够拥有一家观众要求他们尽力而为的剧院。当然，如果玛丽·加思对什么是令人钦佩的性格没有明确的想法，那么当时的弗雷德将会有很大的不同。

Mr. Garth was not at the office, and Fred rode on to his house, which was a little way outside the town—a homely place with an orchard in front of it, a rambling, old-fashioned, half-timbered building, which before the town had spread had been a farm-house, but was now surrounded with the private gardens of the townsmen. We get the fonder of our houses if they have a physiognomy of their own, as our friends have. The Garth family, which was rather a large one, for Mary had four brothers and one sister, were very fond of their old house, from which all the best furniture had long been sold. Fred liked it too, knowing it by heart even to the attic which smelt deliciously of apples and quinces, and until to-day he had never come to it without pleasant expectations; but his heart beat uneasily now with the sense that he should probably have to make his confession before Mrs. Garth, of whom he was rather more in awe than of her husband. Not that she was inclined to sarcasm and to impulsive sallies, as Mary was. In her present matronly age at least, Mrs. Garth never committed herself by over-hasty speech; having, as she said, borne the yoke in her youth, and learned self-control. She had that rare sense which discerns what is unalterable, and submits to it without murmuring. Adoring her husband’s virtues, she had very early made up her mind to his incapacity of minding his own interests, and had met the consequences cheerfully. She had been magnanimous enough to renounce all pride in teapots or children’s frilling, and had never poured any pathetic confidences into the ears of her feminine neighbors concerning Mr. Garth’s want of prudence and the sums he might have had if he had been like other men. Hence these fair neighbors thought her either proud or eccentric, and sometimes spoke of her to their husbands as ‘your fine Mrs. Garth.’ She was not without her criticism of them in return, being more accurately instructed than most matrons in Middlemarch, and—where is the blameless woman?—apt to be a little severe towards her own sex, which in her opinion was framed to be entirely subordinate. On the other hand, she was disproportionately indulgent towards the failings of men, and was often heard to say that these were natural. Also, it must be admitted that Mrs. Garth was a trifle too emphatic in her resistance to what she held to be follies: the passage from governess into housewife had wrought itself a little too strongly into her consciousness, and she rarely forgot that while her grammar and accent were above the town standard, she wore a plain cap, cooked the family dinner, and darned all the stockings. She had sometimes taken pupils in a peripatetic fashion, making them follow her about in the kitchen with their book or slate. She thought it good for them to see that she could make an excellent lather while she corrected their blunders ‘without looking,’— that a woman with her sleeves tucked up above her elbows might know all about the Subjunctive Mood or the Torrid Zone—that, in short, she might possess ‘education’ and other good things ending in ‘tion,’ and worthy to be pronounced emphatically, without being a useless doll. When she made remarks to this edifying effect, she had a firm little frown on her brow, which yet did not hinder her face from looking benevolent, and her words which came forth like a procession were uttered in a fervid agreeable contralto. Certainly, the exemplary Mrs. Garth had her droll aspects, but her character sustained her oddities, as a very fine wine sustains a flavor of skin.
加斯先生不在办公室，弗雷德骑马去了他的家，那是在镇外不远的地方——一个温馨的地方，前面有一个果园，一座杂乱无章的老式半木结构建筑，在城镇扩张之前，这里曾是一座农舍，但现在周围都是镇民的私人花园。如果我们的房子像我们的朋友那样有自己的面貌，我们就会更喜欢它们。加斯一家相当大，因为玛丽有四个兄弟和一个姐妹，他们非常喜欢他们的老房子，里面最好的家具早已卖掉了。弗雷德也很喜欢它，甚至连阁楼上都记住了它，那里有苹果和榅桲的香味，直到今天，他从来没有带着愉快的期望来到这里。但现在他的心不安地跳动着，他觉得自己可能必须在加斯太太面前坦白，因为他对加斯太太的敬畏比对她丈夫的敬畏还要多。并不是说她像玛丽那样喜欢讽刺和冲动的讽刺。至少在她现在已成为主妇的年纪，加思夫人从来不会因为言辞过于草率而做出承诺；正如她所说，她年轻时就受过枷锁，学会了自我控制。她有一种罕见的感觉，能够辨别出什么是不可改变的，并且毫无怨言地服从它。她仰慕丈夫的美德，很早就认定他不能顾及自己的利益，并欣然接受了结果。她宽宏大量，放弃了对茶壶或儿童装饰的所有骄傲，也从未向她的女邻居倾诉任何可悲的秘密，说加斯先生缺乏谨慎，如果他像其他男人一样，他可能会拥有多少钱。 。 因此，这些美丽的邻居认为她要么骄傲，要么古怪，有时对他们的丈夫说她是“你们优秀的加斯太太。”她也不是没有对他们进行批评，因为她比米德尔马契的大多数主妇受到更准确的指导，而且——无可指责的女人在哪里？——对自己的性别有点严厉，在她看来，女性被认为是完全从属的。另一方面，她对男人的缺点却过分宽容，经常有人说这些都是理所当然的。另外，必须承认的是，加斯太太对她认为愚蠢的事情的抵制有点过分了：从家庭教师到家庭主妇的转变对她的意识来说有点太强烈了，她很少忘记这一点，而她的她的语法和口音都高于镇上的标准，她戴着一顶朴素的帽子，为家庭做饭，还补补了所有的长袜。她有时会带着学生四处游荡，让他们拿着书或石板跟着她在厨房里走来走去。她认为对他们来说，看到自己可以在“不看”的情况下纠正他们的错误时，能够打出出色的泡沫，这对他们来说是件好事——一个把袖子卷到肘部上方的女人可能知道关于虚拟语气或炎热区域的所有知识——简而言之，她可能拥有“教育”和其他以“tion”结尾的好东西，值得强调，而不是一个无用的娃娃。当她谈到这种鼓舞人心的效果时，她的眉头紧紧地皱着，但这并不妨碍她的脸看起来很仁慈，她的话语就像游行一样，是用热情而愉快的女低音说出来的。当然，模范夫人。 加思有着滑稽的一面，但她的性格却维持着她的怪异，就像极好的葡萄酒维持着皮肤的味道一样。

Towards Fred Vincy she had a motherly feeling, and had always been disposed to excuse his errors, though she would probably not have excused Mary for engaging herself to him, her daughter being included in that more rigorous judgment which she applied to her own sex. But this very fact of her exceptional indulgence towards him made it the harder to Fred that he must now inevitably sink in her opinion. And the circumstances of his visit turned out to be still more unpleasant than he had expected; for Caleb Garth had gone out early to look at some repairs not far off. Mrs. Garth at certain hours was always in the kitchen, and this morning she was carrying on several occupations at once there—making her pies at the well-scoured deal table on one side of that airy room, observing Sally’s movements at the oven and dough-tub through an open door, and giving lessons to her youngest boy and girl, who were standing opposite to her at the table with their books and slates before them. A tub and a clothes-horse at the other end of the kitchen indicated an intermittent wash of small things also going on.
对于弗雷德·文西，她有一种母性的感觉，总是愿意原谅他的错误，尽管她可能不会原谅玛丽与他的交往，因为她对自己的性别进行了更严格的判断，她的女儿也被包括在内。但她对他异常的溺爱这一事实让弗雷德更加难以接受，他现在必须不可避免地接受她的看法。而他这次访问的情况却比他预想的还要糟糕。因为凯莱布·加斯很早就出门去看看不远处的一些修理工作。加斯太太总是在特定的时间呆在厨房里，今天早上她在那里同时进行几项工作——在通风房间一侧的干净的交易桌上做馅饼，观察莎莉在烤箱里的动作，她从敞开的门里放进面团盆，给她最小的男孩和女孩上课，他们站在她对面的桌子旁，面前摆着书本和石板。厨房另一端的一个浴缸和一个晾衣架表明，一些小东西也在间歇性地清洗。

Mrs. Garth, with her sleeves turned above her elbows, deftly handling her pastry—applying her rolling-pin and giving ornamental pinches, while she expounded with grammatical fervor what were the right views about the concord of verbs and pronouns with ‘nouns of multitude or signifying many,’ was a sight agreeably amusing. She was of the same curly-haired, square-faced type as Mary, but handsomer, with more delicacy of feature, a pale skin, a solid matronly figure, and a remarkable firmness of glance. In her snowy-frilled cap she reminded one of that delightful Frenchwoman whom we have all seen marketing, basket on arm. Looking at the mother, you might hope that the daughter would become like her, which is a prospective advantage equal to a dowry—the mother too often standing behind the daughter like a malignant prophecy— ‘Such as I am, she will shortly be.’
加斯夫人将袖子卷到肘部上方，熟练地处理着她的糕点——用擀面杖并进行装饰性的捏捏，同时她以语法上的热情阐述了关于动词和代词与“众多名词”一致的正确观点。或者表示许多”，这是一个非常有趣的景象。她和玛丽一样，都是卷发、方脸，但更英俊，五官更精致，皮肤白皙，身材坚实，目光坚定。戴着雪白褶边帽子的她让我们想起了我们都见过的那位令人愉快的法国女人，她手臂上挎着篮子。看着母亲，你可能希望女儿会变得像她一样，这是一种相当于嫁妆的预期优势——母亲常常像恶毒的预言一样站在女儿身后——“我是这样的，她很快就会成为这样的。” '

‘Now let us go through that once more,’ said Mrs. Garth, pinching an apple-puff which seemed to distract Ben, an energetic young male with a heavy brow, from due attention to the lesson. ‘Not without regard to the import of the word as conveying unity or plurality of idea’—tell me again what that means, Ben.’
“现在让我们再讲一遍，”加斯太太一边说，一边捏着一个苹果酥，这似乎分散了本这个精力充沛、眉毛浓密的年轻男子对课程的注意力。 “不能不考虑这个词传达统一性或多元性思想的重要性”——再告诉我这是什么意思，本。

(Mrs. Garth, like more celebrated educators, had her favorite ancient paths, and in a general wreck of society would have tried to hold her ‘Lindley Murray’ above the waves.)
（加思夫人和其他著名的教育家一样，也有她最喜欢的古老道路，在社会普遍崩溃的情况下，她会试图让她的“林德利·穆雷”保持在波浪之上。）

‘Oh—it means—you must think what you mean,’ said Ben, rather peevishly. ‘I hate grammar. What’s the use of it?’
“哦——这意味着——你必须想清楚你的意思，”本相当生气地说。 “我讨厌语法。它有什么用？

‘To teach you to speak and write correctly, so that you can be understood,’ said Mrs. Garth, with severe precision. ‘Should you like to speak as old Job does?’
“教你正确地说话和书写，以便别人能理解你的意思。”加斯太太非常精确地说。 “你想像老约伯那样说话吗？”

‘Yes,’ said Ben, stoutly; ‘it’s funnier. He says, ‘Yo goo’— that’s just as good as ‘You go.’’
“是的，”本坚决地说。 ‘这更有趣。他说，“Yo goo”——这和“你走吧。”一样好。

‘But he says, ‘A ship’s in the garden,’ instead of ‘a sheep,’’ said Letty, with an air of superiority. ‘You might think he meant a ship off the sea.’
“但他说，‘花园里有一艘船’，而不是‘一只羊’，”莱蒂带着优越感说道。 “你可能认为他指的是一艘离海的船。”

‘No, you mightn’t, if you weren’t silly,’ said Ben. ‘How could a ship off the sea come there?’
“不，如果你不傻的话，你可能不会这么做，”本说。 “海上的船怎么会到那里？”

‘These things belong only to pronunciation, which is the least part of grammar,’ said Mrs. Garth. ‘That apple-peel is to be eaten by the pigs, Ben; if you eat it, I must give them your piece of pasty. Job has only to speak about very plain things. How do you think you would write or speak about anything more difficult, if you knew no more of grammar than he does? You would use wrong words, and put words in the wrong places, and instead of making people understand you, they would turn away from you as a tiresome person. What would you do then?’
“这些东西只属于发音，这是语法中最不重要的部分，”加思夫人说。 “那个苹果皮是要给猪吃的，本；如果你吃了它，我必须给他们你的一块馅饼。约伯只需要谈论非常简单的事情。如果你对语法的了解不比他多，你认为你如何写或谈论更困难的事情？你会使用错误的词语，并将词语放在错误的位置，而不是让人们理解你，他们会因为你是一个令人厌烦的人而离开你。那你会怎么做？

‘I shouldn’t care, I should leave off,’ said Ben, with a sense that this was an agreeable issue where grammar was concerned.
“我不应该在意，我应该停止，”本说，他觉得就语法而言这是一个令人愉快的问题。

‘I see you are getting tired and stupid, Ben,’ said Mrs. Garth, accustomed to these obstructive arguments from her male offspring. Having finished her pies, she moved towards the clothes-horse, and said, ‘Come here and tell me the story I told you on Wednesday, about Cincinnatus.’
“我发现你变得又累又蠢了，本，”加斯太太说，她已经习惯了她的男性后代的这些阻碍性的争论。吃完馅饼后，她走向晾衣架，说道：“过来，告诉我我周三给你讲的关于辛辛纳特斯的故事。”

‘I know! he was a farmer,’ said Ben.
'我知道！他是一名农民，”本说。

‘Now, Ben, he was a Roman—let ME tell,’ said Letty, using her elbow contentiously.
“现在，本，他是罗马人——让我来告诉你，”莱蒂说，用她的肘部争论。

‘You silly thing, he was a Roman farmer, and he was ploughing.’
“你这个傻瓜，他是罗马农民，他正在耕地。”

‘Yes, but before that—that didn’t come first—people wanted him,’ said Letty.
“是的，但在那之前——这并不是第一位的——人们想要他，”莱蒂说。

‘Well, but you must say what sort of a man he was first,’ insisted Ben. ‘He was a wise man, like my father, and that made the people want his advice. And he was a brave man, and could fight. And so could my father—couldn’t he, mother?’
“好吧，但你必须先说他是一个什么样的人，”本坚持说。 “他是一个聪明人，就像我父亲一样，这让人们需要他的建议。而且他是一个勇敢的人，能够战斗。我的父亲也可以——他不能吗，母亲？

‘Now, Ben, let me tell the story straight on, as mother told it us,’ said Letty, frowning. ‘Please, mother, tell Ben not to speak.’
“现在，本，让我直接讲故事，就像妈妈告诉我们的那样，”莱蒂皱着眉头说道。 “妈妈，请告诉本不要说话。”

‘Letty, I am ashamed of you,’ said her mother, wringing out the caps from the tub. ‘When your brother began, you ought to have waited to see if he could not tell the story. How rude you look, pushing and frowning, as if you wanted to conquer with your elbows! Cincinnatus, I am sure, would have been sorry to see his daughter behave so.’ (Mrs. Garth delivered this awful sentence with much majesty of enunciation, and Letty felt that between repressed volubility and general disesteem, that of the Romans inclusive, life was already a painful affair.) ‘Now, Ben.’
“莱蒂，我为你感到羞耻，”她的母亲一边说，一边拧掉浴缸里的盖子。 “当你哥哥开始讲故事的时候，你应该等着看他是否能讲出这个故事。你的样子多么粗鲁啊，推搡着，皱着眉头，好像要用胳膊肘去征服一样！我敢肯定，辛辛纳图斯如果看到他的女儿这样做，他一定会感到遗憾。”（加思夫人以极其威严的口吻说出了这句可怕的话，莱蒂觉得，在压抑的滔滔不绝和普遍的不尊重之间，包括罗马人在内，生活这已经是一件痛苦的事情了。）“现在，本。”

‘Well—oh—well—why, there was a great deal of fighting, and they were all blockheads, and—I can’t tell it just how you told it— but they wanted a man to be captain and king and everything—‘
“好吧——哦——好吧——为什么，有很多战斗，他们都是傻瓜，而且——我不能告诉你你是怎么说的——但他们想要一个人当队长和国王等等—— '

‘Dictator, now,’ said Letty, with injured looks, and not without a wish to make her mother repent.
“独裁者，现在，”莱蒂说道，表情受伤，不无希望让她母亲悔罪。

‘Very well, dictator!’ said Ben, contemptuously. ‘But that isn’t a good word: he didn’t tell them to write on slates.’
“好吧，独裁者！”本轻蔑地说。 “但这不是一个好词：他没有告诉他们在石板上写字。”

‘Come, come, Ben, you are not so ignorant as that,’ said Mrs. Garth, carefully serious. ‘Hark, there is a knock at the door! Run, Letty, and open it.’
“得了，得了，本，你才没有那么无知呢，”加斯太太小心翼翼地严肃地说。 ‘听，有人敲门！快跑，莱蒂，打开它。”

The knock was Fred’s; and when Letty said that her father was not in yet, but that her mother was in the kitchen, Fred had no alternative. He could not depart from his usual practice of going to see Mrs. Garth in the kitchen if she happened to be at work there. He put his arm round Letty’s neck silently, and led her into the kitchen without his usual jokes and caresses.
敲门声是弗雷德的。当莱蒂说她父亲还没回来，但她母亲在厨房里时，弗雷德别无选择。如果加斯太太碰巧在厨房工作，他就不能改变他一贯的做法，去厨房看望她。他默默地用手臂搂住莱蒂的脖子，带她走进厨房，没有像往常那样开玩笑和爱抚。

Mrs. Garth was surprised to see Fred at this hour, but surprise was not a feeling that she was given to express, and she only said, quietly continuing her work—
加斯太太在这个时候见到弗雷德很惊讶，但惊讶不是她能表达的感觉，她只是说，静静地继续她的工作——

‘You, Fred, so early in the day? You look quite pale. Has anything happened?’
“弗雷德，你这么早吗？你看起来很苍白。有什么事吗？

‘I want to speak to Mr. Garth,’ said Fred, not yet ready to say more— ‘and to you also,’ he added, after a little pause, for he had no doubt that Mrs. Garth knew everything about the bill, and he must in the end speak of it before her, if not to her solely.
“我想和加斯先生说话，”弗雷德说，还没准备好说更多的话——“还有你，”他停顿了一下后补充道，因为他毫不怀疑加斯太太知道有关该法案的一切。 ，他最终必须在她面前谈论这件事，即使不是只对她来说。

‘Caleb will be in again in a few minutes,’ said Mrs. Garth, who imagined some trouble between Fred and his father. ‘He is sure not to be long, because he has some work at his desk that must be done this morning. Do you mind staying with me, while I finish my matters here?’
“几分钟后凯莱布就会回来。”加思夫人说道，她想象着弗雷德和他父亲之间会发生一些麻烦。 “他肯定不会待太久，因为他办公桌上还有一些工作必须在今天早上完成。”当我在这里完成我的事情时，你介意和我在一起吗？

‘But we needn’t go on about Cincinnatus, need we?’ said Ben, who had taken Fred’s whip out of his hand, and was trying its efficiency on the eat.
“但我们不必继续谈论辛辛纳特斯，不是吗？”本说，他从手中接过弗雷德的鞭子，正在尝试它的效率。

‘No, go out now. But put that whip down. How very mean of you to whip poor old Tortoise! Pray take the whip from him, Fred.’
‘不用了，现在就出去吧。但把那根鞭子放下吧。你鞭打可怜的老乌龟，真是太卑鄙了！弗雷德，请拿走他的鞭子。”

‘Come, old boy, give it me,’ said Fred, putting out his hand.
“来吧，老伙计，把它给我，”弗雷德伸出手说道。

‘Will you let me ride on your horse to-day?’ said Ben, rendering up the whip, with an air of not being obliged to do it.
“今天你能让我骑你的马吗？”本说着，挥舞着鞭子，一副不情愿的样子。

‘Not to-day—another time. I am not riding my own horse.’
“不是今天，而是下次。”我不会骑自己的马。

‘Shall you see Mary to-day?’
“你今天能见玛丽吗？”

‘Yes, I think so,’ said Fred, with an unpleasant twinge.
“是的，我想是的，”弗雷德说，语气中带着不愉快的刺痛。

‘Tell her to come home soon, and play at forfeits, and make fun.’
“告诉她快点回家，玩输家游戏，开玩笑。”

‘Enough, enough, Ben! run away,’ said Mrs. Garth, seeing that Fred was teased…
“够了，够了，本！”加斯太太看到弗雷德被嘲笑了，说道……

‘Are Letty and Ben your only pupils now, Mrs. Garth?’ said Fred, when the children were gone and it was needful to say something that would pass the time. He was not yet sure whether he should wait for Mr. Garth, or use any good opportunity in conversation to confess to Mrs. Garth herself, give her the money and ride away.
“加斯太太，莱蒂和本现在是您唯一的学生吗？”当孩子们走了之后，弗雷德说道，有必要说点什么来打发时间。他还不确定是否应该等待加斯先生，或者利用任何谈话的好机会向加斯夫人本人表白，给她钱然后骑车离开。

‘One—only one. Fanny Hackbutt comes at half past eleven. I am not getting a great income now,’ said Mrs. Garth, smiling. ‘I am at a low ebb with pupils. But I have saved my little purse for Alfred’s premium: I have ninety-two pounds. He can go to Mr. Hanmer’s now; he is just at the right age.’
‘一个——只有一个。范妮·哈克布特十一点半来。 “我现在的收入并不高。”加斯夫人微笑着说道。 “我对学生的态度正处于低潮。但我已经把我的小钱包留给了阿尔弗雷德的保费：我有九十二英镑。他现在可以去汉默先生家了；他正处于正确的年龄。”

This did not lead well towards the news that Mr. Garth was on the brink of losing ninety-two pounds and more. Fred was silent. ‘Young gentlemen who go to college are rather more costly than that,’ Mrs. Garth innocently continued, pulling out the edging on a cap-border. ‘And Caleb thinks that Alfred will turn out a distinguished engineer: he wants to give the boy a good chance. There he is! I hear him coming in. We will go to him in the parlor, shall we?’
这并没有很好地导致加斯先生即将减掉九十二磅甚至更多的消息。弗雷德沉默了。 “上大学的年轻绅士的花费比这要高得多，”加斯夫人天真地继续说道，拉掉了帽子边缘的边缘。 “凯莱布认为阿尔弗雷德会成为一名杰出的工程师：他想给这个男孩一个很好的机会。他在那！我听到他进来了。我们去客厅找他，好吗？

When they entered the parlor Caleb had thrown down his hat and was seated at his desk.
当他们进入客厅时，凯勒布扔下帽子，坐在办公桌前。

‘What! Fred, my boy!’ he said, in a tone of mild surprise, holding his pen still undipped; ‘you are here betimes.’ But missing the usual expression of cheerful greeting in Fred’s face, he immediately added, ‘Is there anything up at home?—anything the matter?’
'什么！弗雷德，我的孩子！”他握着没有蘸水的笔，语气里带着些许惊讶。 “你来得很早。”但是弗雷德脸上没有一贯的愉快的问候表情，他立即补充道，“家里有什么事情吗？有什么事吗？”

‘Yes, Mr. Garth, I am come to tell something that I am afraid will give you a bad opinion of me. I am come to tell you and Mrs. Garth that I can’t keep my word. I can’t find the money to meet the bill after all. I have been unfortunate; I have only got these fifty pounds towards the hundred and sixty.’
“是的，加思先生，我来是要告诉你一些事情，我担心这会让你对我产生不好的印象。”我来是想告诉你们和加斯夫人，我无法遵守诺言。我终究找不到钱来支付账单。我很不幸；我只有这五十英镑才到一百六十英镑。

While Fred was speaking, he had taken out the notes and laid them on the desk before Mr. Garth. He had burst forth at once with the plain fact, feeling boyishly miserable and without verbal resources. Mrs. Garth was mutely astonished, and looked at her husband for an explanation. Caleb blushed, and after a little pause said—
弗雷德一边说话，一边拿出笔记，放在加斯先生面前的桌子上。他立刻说出了这个简单的事实，感到孩子气的痛苦，却没有语言能力。加斯夫人默默地惊讶不已，她看着丈夫寻求解释。迦勒脸红了，停顿了一下后说道——

‘Oh, I didn’t tell you, Susan: I put my name to a bill for Fred; it was for a hundred and sixty pounds. He made sure he could meet it himself.’
“哦，我没有告诉你，苏珊：我把我的名字写在了弗雷德的账单上；”售价一百六十英镑。他确保自己能够实现这一目标。

There was an evident change in Mrs. Garth’s face, but it was like a change below the surface of water which remains smooth. She fixed her eyes on Fred, saying—
加斯夫人的脸色发生了明显的变化，但就像水面以下依然平静的变化。她盯着弗雷德，说道——

‘I suppose you have asked your father for the rest of the money and he has refused you.’
“我想你已经向你父亲要了剩下的钱，但他拒绝了你。”

‘No,’ said Fred, biting his lip, and speaking with more difficulty; ‘but I know it will be of no use to ask him; and unless it were of use, I should not like to mention Mr. Garth’s name in the matter.’
“不，”弗雷德咬着嘴唇，语气更加困难。 “但我知道问他是没有用的；除非有用，否则我不想在此事中提及加斯先生的名字。

‘It has come at an unfortunate time,’ said Caleb, in his hesitating way, looking down at the notes and nervously fingering the paper, ‘Christmas upon us—I’m rather hard up just now. You see, I have to cut out everything like a tailor with short measure. What can we do, Susan? I shall want every farthing we have in the bank. It’s a hundred and ten pounds, the deuce take it!’
“它来得不是时候，”凯莱布犹豫地说，低头看着笔记，紧张地抚摸着纸条，“圣诞节即将来临——我现在很拮据。”你看，我必须像裁缝一样用短尺子剪掉所有东西。我们能做什么，苏珊？我会想要我们银行里的每一分钱。这是一百一十英镑，平分吧！

‘I must give you the ninety-two pounds that I have put by for Alfred’s premium,’ said Mrs. Garth, gravely and decisively, though a nice ear might have discerned a slight tremor in some of the words. ‘And I have no doubt that Mary has twenty pounds saved from her salary by this time. She will advance it.’
“我必须把我为阿尔弗雷德存下的九十二英镑的保费给你，”加斯太太严肃而果断地说，尽管耳朵敏锐的人可能会听出其中一些话里有轻微的颤抖。 “我毫不怀疑，玛丽现在已经从她的工资中节省了二十英镑。她会推进它。

Mrs. Garth had not again looked at Fred, and was not in the least calculating what words she should use to cut him the most effectively. Like the eccentric woman she was, she was at present absorbed in considering what was to be done, and did not fancy that the end could be better achieved by bitter remarks or explosions. But she had made Fred feel for the first time something like the tooth of remorse. Curiously enough, his pain in the affair beforehand had consisted almost entirely in the sense that he must seem dishonorable, and sink in the opinion of the Garths: he had not occupied himself with the inconvenience and possible injury that his breach might occasion them, for this exercise of the imagination on other people’s needs is not common with hopeful young gentlemen. Indeed we are most of us brought up in the notion that the highest motive for not doing a wrong is something irrespective of the beings who would suffer the wrong. But at this moment he suddenly saw himself as a pitiful rascal who was robbing two women of their savings.
加斯太太没有再看弗雷德，也没有丝毫考虑应该用什么话来最有效地伤害他。就像她这个古怪的女人一样，她此刻正全神贯注地考虑着该怎么办，并不认为尖酸刻薄或爆发性的言论能更好地达到目的。但她让弗雷德第一次感受到了悔恨的感觉。奇怪的是，他之前在这件事上的痛苦几乎完全在于他一定看起来不光彩，并且在加斯家族的看法中沉沦：他并没有忙于他的违规行为可能给他们带来的不便和可能的伤害，因为这种对他人需求的想象力在充满希望的年轻绅士中并不常见。事实上，我们大多数人都是在这样的观念中长大的：不做错事的最高动机是不考虑那些会遭受错误的人。可此时此刻，他突然发现自己就是一个抢夺两个女人积蓄的可怜无赖。

‘I shall certainly pay it all, Mrs. Garth—ultimately,’ he stammered out.
“我一定会付清全部费用，加斯太太——最终，”他结结巴巴地说。

‘Yes, ultimately,’ said Mrs. Garth, who having a special dislike to fine words on ugly occasions, could not now repress an epigram. ‘But boys cannot well be apprenticed ultimately: they should be apprenticed at fifteen.’ She had never been so little inclined to make excuses for Fred.
“是的，最终，”加斯太太说，她特别不喜欢在丑陋的场合说漂亮话，现在无法抑制警句。 “但是男孩子最终还是不能当学徒的：他们应该在十五岁时就开始当学徒。”她从来没有这么不愿意为弗雷德找借口。

‘I was the most in the wrong, Susan,’ said Caleb. ‘Fred made sure of finding the money. But I’d no business to be fingering bills. I suppose you have looked all round and tried all honest means?’ he added, fixing his merciful gray eyes on Fred. Caleb was too delicate, to specify Mr. Featherstone.
“我错得最严重，苏珊，”凯莱布说。 “弗雷德确信能找到钱。但我无权去掏钱。我想你已经环顾四周并尝试了所有诚实的方法？”他补充道，用仁慈的灰色眼睛盯着弗雷德。迦勒太敏感了，无法指定费瑟斯通先生。

‘Yes, I have tried everything—I really have. I should have had a hundred and thirty pounds ready but for a misfortune with a horse which I was about to sell. My uncle had given me eighty pounds, and I paid away thirty with my old horse in order to get another which I was going to sell for eighty or more—I meant to go without a horse— but now it has turned out vicious and lamed itself. I wish I and the horses too had been at the devil, before I had brought this on you. There’s no one else I care so much for: you and Mrs. Garth have always been so kind to me. However, it’s no use saying that. You will always think me a rascal now.’
“是的，我已经尝试了一切——我真的尝试过。如果不是因为我正要卖掉的一匹马发生了不幸，我本来应该准备好一百三十英镑的。我叔叔给了我八十英镑，我用我的旧马付了三十英镑，以便得到另一匹我打算以八十英镑或更多的价格出售的马——我本来打算不带一匹马——但现在它变得邪恶而且跛脚本身。我希望在我把这件事带给你之前，我和马匹也已经见鬼了。没有人让我如此在乎：你和加思夫人一直对我这么好。然而，这样说是没有用的。现在你永远会认为我是个无赖。

Fred turned round and hurried out of the room, conscious that he was getting rather womanish, and feeling confusedly that his being sorry was not of much use to the Garths. They could see him mount, and quickly pass through the gate.
弗雷德转身急忙走出房间，意识到自己变得越来越女人气，而且困惑地感到他的抱歉对加思一家没有多大用处。他们看到他骑上马，并迅速穿过大门。

‘I am disappointed in Fred Vincy,’ said Mrs. Garth. ‘I would not have believed beforehand that he would have drawn you into his debts. I knew he was extravagant, but I did not think that he would be so mean as to hang his risks on his oldest friend, who could the least afford to lose.’
“我对弗雷德·文西很失望，”加斯夫人说。 “我事先就不相信他会让你欠下债。”我知道他很奢侈，但我没想到他会小气到把风险推给最不能承受损失的老朋友。

‘I was a fool, Susan:.’
“我是个傻瓜，苏珊：”

‘That you were,’ said the wife, nodding and smiling. ‘But I should not have gone to publish it in the market-place. Why should you keep such things from me? It is just so with your buttons: you let them burst off without telling me, and go out with your wristband hanging. If I had only known I might have been ready with some better plan.’
“原来如此。”妻子点点头，微笑着说道。 “但我不应该去市场上发布它。你为什么要对我隐瞒这些事情？你的纽扣也是如此：你在没有告诉我的情况下让它们爆开，然后挂着腕带出门。如果我知道的话，我可能已经准备好了一些更好的计划。

‘You are sadly cut up, I know, Susan,’ said Caleb, looking feelingly at her. ‘I can’t abide your losing the money you’ve scraped together for Alfred.’
“我知道你很伤心，苏珊，”凯莱布深情地看着她说道。 “我无法忍受你失去为阿尔弗雷德攒下的钱。”

‘It is very well that I HAD scraped it together; and it is you who will have to suffer, for you must teach the boy yourself. You must give up your bad habits. Some men take to drinking, and you have taken to working without pay. You must indulge yourself a little less in that. And you must ride over to Mary, and ask the child what money she has.’
“我把它拼凑起来真是太好了；受苦的是你，因为你必须亲自教导这个男孩。你必须戒掉你的坏习惯。有些人开始酗酒，而你却开始无薪工作。你必须少放纵自己一点。你必须骑车去找玛丽，问孩子她有多少钱。

Caleb had pushed his chair back, and was leaning forward, shaking his head slowly, and fitting his finger-tips together with much nicety.
凯莱布把他的椅子往后推，身体向前倾，慢慢地摇着头，并把指尖完美地合在一起。

‘Poor Mary!’ he said. ‘Susan,’ he went on in a lowered tone, ‘I’m afraid she may be fond of Fred.’
“可怜的玛丽！”他说。 “苏珊，”他压低声音继续说道，“我担心她可能喜欢弗雷德。”

‘Oh no! She always laughs at him; and he is not likely to think of her in any other than a brotherly way.’
'不好了！她总是嘲笑他；他不可能以兄弟般的方式看待她。

Caleb made no rejoinder, but presently lowered his spectacles, drew up his chair to the desk, and said, ‘Deuce take the bill— I wish it was at Hanover! These things are a sad interruption to business!’
凯莱布没有反驳，但很快就放下了眼镜，把椅子拉到桌子旁，说道：“平局，结账吧——我希望是在汉诺威！”这些事情对生意造成了可悲的干扰！”

The first part of this speech comprised his whole store of maledictory expression, and was uttered with a slight snarl easy to imagine. But it would be difficult to convey to those who never heard him utter the word ‘business,’ the peculiar tone of fervid veneration, of religious regard, in which he wrapped it, as a consecrated symbol is wrapped in its gold-fringed linen.
这句话的第一部分包含了他所有的咒骂表情，并且带着一种容易想象的轻微的咆哮。但对于那些从未听过他说过“生意”这个词的人来说，很难传达出他包裹着它的那种特殊的热情崇拜和宗教尊重的语气，就像一个神圣的符号被包裹在金边的亚麻布里一样。

Caleb Garth often shook his head in meditation on the value, the indispensable might of that myriad-headed, myriad-handed labor by which the social body is fed, clothed, and housed. It had laid hold of his imagination in boyhood. The echoes of the great hammer where roof or keel were a-making, the signal-shouts of the workmen, the roar of the furnace, the thunder and plash of the engine, were a sublime music to him; the felling and lading of timber, and the huge trunk vibrating star-like in the distance along the highway, the crane at work on the wharf, the piled-up produce in warehouses, the precision and variety of muscular effort wherever exact work had to be turned out,—all these sights of his youth had acted on him as poetry without the aid of the poets. had made a philosophy for him without the aid of philosophers, a religion without the aid of theology. His early ambition had been to have as effective a share as possible in this sublime labor, which was peculiarly dignified by him with the name of ‘business;’ and though he had only been a short time under a surveyor, and had been chiefly his own teacher, he knew more of land, building, and mining than most of the special men in the county.
凯莱布·加思（Caleb Garth）经常摇头，思考着无数头脑、无数双手劳动的价值和不可或缺的力量，社会团体正是靠这些劳动来获得食物、衣服和住房的。它在他童年时就激发了他的想象力。敲打屋顶或龙骨时大锤的回声、工人们的喊叫声、炉子的轰鸣声、发动机的轰鸣声和轰鸣声，对他来说都是美妙的音乐；木材的砍伐和装运，高速公路沿线远处星状振动的巨大树干，码头上工作的起重机，仓库中堆积的产品，任何精确工作所需要的肌肉力量的精确性和多样性事实证明，他年轻时的所有这些景象在他身上就像诗一样，无需诗人的帮助。为他创造了一种无需哲学家帮助的哲学，一种无需神学帮助的宗教。他早期的野心是尽可能有效地参与这项崇高的劳动，他以“商业”的名义特别尊贵地参与了这项崇高的劳动；尽管他只在测量员手下工作了很短的时间，而且主要是他自己的工作。他是自己的老师，对土地、建筑和采矿的了解比县里大多数特殊人士还要多。

His classification of human employments was rather crude, and, like the categories of more celebrated men, would not be acceptable in these advanced times. He divided them into ‘business, politics, preaching, learning, and amusement.’ He had nothing to say against the last four; but he regarded them as a reverential pagan regarded other gods than his own. In the same way, he thought very well of all ranks, but he would not himself have liked to be of any rank in which he had not such close contact with ‘business’ as to get often honorably decorated with marks of dust and mortar, the damp of the engine, or the sweet soil of the woods and fields. Though he had never regarded himself as other than an orthodox Christian, and would argue on prevenient grace if the subject were proposed to him, I think his virtual divinities were good practical schemes, accurate work, and the faithful completion of undertakings: his prince of darkness was a slack workman. But there was no spirit of denial in Caleb, and the world seemed so wondrous to him that he was ready to accept any number of systems, like any number of firmaments, if they did not obviously interfere with the best land-drainage, solid building, correct measuring, and judicious boring (for coal). In fact, he had a reverential soul with a strong practical intelligence. But he could not manage finance: he knew values well, but he had no keenness of imagination for monetary results in the shape of profit and loss: and having ascertained this to his cost, he determined to give up all forms of his beloved ‘business’ which required that talent. He gave himself up entirely to the many kinds of work which he could do without handling capital, and was one of those precious men within his own district whom everybody would choose to work for them, because he did his work well, charged very little, and often declined to charge at all. It is no wonder, then, that the Garths were poor, and ‘lived in a small way.’ However, they did not mind it.
他对人类就业的分类相当粗略，而且，就像对更著名的人的分类一样，在当今先进的时代是不可接受的。他将它们分为“商业、政治、讲道、学习和娱乐”。他对后四种没有什么可说的；但他把他们视为虔诚的异教徒，视其他神而不是他自己的神。同样地，他对所有级别都抱有很好的看法，但他本人不希望自己处于任何一个级别，因为他与“商业”没有如此密切的接触，以至于经常被灰尘和灰浆的痕迹所光荣地装饰，发动机的潮湿，或者树林和田野的甜土。尽管他从来没有把自己视为正统基督徒，而且如果有人向他提出这个话题，他会争论先在恩典，但我认为他的虚拟神性是良好的实际计划、精确的工作和忠实地完成事业：他的王子黑暗是一个懒惰的工人。但迦勒没有否认的精神，世界对他来说是如此奇妙，他准备接受任何数量的系统，就像任何数量的苍穹一样，只要它们没有明显干扰最好的土地排水、坚固的建筑。 、正确测量和明智的钻孔（对于煤炭）。事实上，他有一颗虔诚的灵魂，具有很强的实践智慧。但他无法管理财务：他很了解价值观，但他对盈亏形式的货币结果没有敏锐的想象力：在确定了这一点后，他决定放弃他心爱的所有形式的“生意” ’这需要这种才能。 他完全把自己奉献给了许多种工作，不需要处理资本，他就可以做这些工作，他是他所在地区的那些宝贵的人之一，每个人都会选择为他们工作，因为他工作做得很好，收费很少，并且经常拒绝收费。难怪加尔斯一家很穷，而且“过着狭隘的生活”。不过，他们并不介意。

CHAPTER XXV
第二十五章

‘Love seeketh not itself to please,
‘爱不求本身取悦，

Nor for itself hath any care
也不关心自己

But for another gives its ease
但对于另一个人来说却很轻松

And builds a heaven in hell’s despair.
并在地狱的绝望中建造天堂。

Love seeketh only self to please,
爱只求取悦自己，

To bind another to its delight,
使他人受其喜悦所束缚，

Joys in another’s loss of ease,
因他人失去安逸而喜乐，

And builds a hell in heaven’s despite.’
不顾一切地在天堂里建造了一个地狱。

—W. BLAKE: Songs of Experience
——W.布莱克：经验之歌

Fred Vincy wanted to arrive at Stone Court when Mary could not expect him, and when his uncle was not down-stairs in that case she might be sitting alone in the wainscoted parlor. He left his horse in the yard to avoid making a noise on the gravel in front, and entered the parlor without other notice than the noise of the door-handle. Mary was in her usual corner, laughing over Mrs. Piozzi’s recollections of Johnson, and looked up with the fun still in her face. It gradually faded as she saw Fred approach her without speaking, and stand before her with his elbow on the mantel-piece, looking ill. She too was silent, only raising her eyes to him inquiringly.
弗雷德·文西想在玛丽无法期待他的时候到达斯通庭院，而当他的叔叔不在楼下时，在这种情况下，她可能独自坐在壁板客厅里。他把马留在院子里，以免在前面的碎石路上发出噪音，然后就走进了客厅，除了门把手的声音之外，没有引起任何其他人的注意。玛丽在她平常的角落里，为皮奥齐夫人对约翰逊的回忆而大笑，抬起头，脸上仍然带着乐趣。当她看到弗雷德一言不发地走近她，站在她面前，胳膊肘撑在壁炉架上，看上去很不舒服时，这种感觉逐渐消失了。她也沉默了，只是抬起眼睛询问地看着他。

‘Mary,’ he began, ‘I am a good-for-nothing blackguard.’
“玛丽，”他开始说道，“我是一个无用的恶棍。”

‘I should think one of those epithets would do at a time,’ said Mary, trying to smile, but feeling alarmed.
“我认为这些绰号一次就可以了，”玛丽说，试图微笑，但感到震惊。

‘I know you will never think well of me any more. You will think me a liar. You will think me dishonest. You will think I didn’t care for you, or your father and mother. You always do make the worst of me, I know.’
“我知道你再也不会看好我了。你会认为我是个骗子。你会认为我不诚实。你会认为我不关心你，或者你的父母。我知道，你总是让我变得最坏。

‘I cannot deny that I shall think all that of you, Fred, if you give me good reasons. But please to tell me at once what you have done. I would rather know the painful truth than imagine it.’
“弗雷德，如果你给我充分的理由，我不能否认我会这么想你。但请立即告诉我你做了什么。我宁愿知道痛苦的真相，也不愿想象它。

‘I owed money—a hundred and sixty pounds. I asked your father to put his name to a bill. I thought it would not signify to him. I made sure of paying the money myself, and I have tried as hard as I could. And now, I have been so unlucky—a horse has turned out badly— I can only pay fifty pounds. And I can’t ask my father for the money: he would not give me a farthing. And my uncle gave me a hundred a little while ago. So what can I do? And now your father has no ready money to spare, and your mother will have to pay away her ninety-two pounds that she has saved, and she says your savings must go too. You see what a—‘
“我欠了钱——一百六十英镑。我请你父亲把他的名字写在账单上。我认为这对他来说没有意义。我确保自己付钱，并且我已经尽了最大努力。现在，我太倒霉了——一匹马的情况很糟糕——我只能付五十英镑。我也不能向父亲要钱：他不会给我一分钱。不久前我叔叔给了我一百块。那我能做什么呢？现在你的父亲已经没有多余的钱了，你的母亲将不得不偿还她存下的九十二英镑，她说你的积蓄也必须花掉。你看什么是——”

‘Oh, poor mother, poor father!’ said Mary, her eyes filling with tears, and a little sob rising which she tried to repress. She looked straight before her and took no notice of Fred, all the consequences at home becoming present to her. He too remained silent for some moments, feeling more miserable than ever. ‘I wouldn’t have hurt you for the world, Mary,’ he said at last. ‘You can never forgive me.’
“哦，可怜的母亲，可怜的父亲！”玛丽说，她的眼睛里充满了泪水，她试图压抑着一点抽泣。她直视前方，没有注意到弗雷德，家里的所有后果都呈现在她眼前。他也沉默了片刻，感觉比以往更加痛苦。 “我绝对不会伤害你，玛丽，”他最后说道。 “你永远不能原谅我。”

‘What does it matter whether I forgive you?’ said Mary, passionately. ‘Would that make it any better for my mother to lose the money she has been earning by lessons for four years, that she might send Alfred to Mr. Hanmer’s? Should you think all that pleasant enough if I forgave you?’
“我是否原谅你又有什么关系呢？”玛丽热情地说。 “如果我的母亲失去了她四年来上课赚的钱，那么她可能会更好地把阿尔弗雷德送到汉默先生那里吗？”如果我原谅你，你会觉得一切都足够愉快吗？

‘Say what you like, Mary. I deserve it all.’
“说你喜欢说的话吧，玛丽。我应得的这一切。

‘I don’t want to say anything,’ said Mary, more quietly, ‘and my anger is of no use.’ She dried her eyes, threw aside her book, rose and fetched her sewing.
“我不想说什么，”玛丽更加平静地说，“我的愤怒是没有用的。”她擦干眼睛，把书扔到一边，起身去拿针线活。

Fred followed her with his eyes, hoping that they would meet hers, and in that way find access for his imploring penitence. But no! Mary could easily avoid looking upward.
弗雷德的目光追随着她，希望能与她的目光相遇，这样就能找到他恳求忏悔的机会。但不是！玛丽很容易避免向上看。

‘I do care about your mother’s money going,’ he said, when she was seated again and sewing quickly. ‘I wanted to ask you, Mary— don’t you think that Mr. Featherstone—if you were to tell him— tell him, I mean, about apprenticing Alfred—would advance the money?’
“我确实关心你母亲的钱去向，”当她重新坐下并快速做缝纫时，他说道。 “我想问你，玛丽——你不认为费瑟斯通先生——如果你告诉他——告诉他，我是说，关于拜阿尔弗雷德的事——会预支这笔钱吗？”

‘My family is not fond of begging, Fred. We would rather work for our money. Besides, you say that Mr. Featherstone has lately given you a hundred pounds. He rarely makes presents; he has never made presents to us. I am sure my father will not ask him for anything; and even if I chose to beg of him, it would be of no use.’
“我的家人不喜欢乞讨，弗雷德。我们宁愿为自己的钱而工作。另外，你说费瑟斯通先生最近给了你一百英镑。他很少送礼物；他从来没有给我们送过礼物。我确信我父亲不会向他要任何东西；即使我选择乞求他，也是没有用的。

‘I am so miserable, Mary—if you knew how miserable I am, you would be sorry for me.’
“我很痛苦，玛丽——如果你知道我有多痛苦，你就会为我感到难过。”

‘There are other things to be more sorry for than that. But selfish people always think their own discomfort of more importance than anything else in the world. I see enough of that every day.’
“还有比这更令人遗憾的事情。但自私的人总是认为自己的不适比世界上的任何事情都重要。我每天都看够了。

‘It is hardly fair to call me selfish. If you knew what things other young men do, you would think me a good way off the worst.’
“说我自私是不公平的。如果你知道其他年轻人会做什么，你就会认为我已经远离了最糟糕的情况。”

‘I know that people who spend a great deal of money on themselves without knowing how they shall pay, must be selfish. They are always thinking of what they can get for themselves, and not of what other people may lose.’
“我知道那些在自己身上花了很多钱而不知道如何支付的人一定是自私的。他们总是考虑自己可以获得什么，而不是其他人可能会失去什么。”

‘Any man may be unfortunate, Mary, and find himself unable to pay when he meant it. There is not a better man in the world than your father, and yet he got into trouble.’
“玛丽，任何人都可能很不幸，发现自己无力支付他想要的费用。世界上没有比你父亲更好的人了，但他却惹上了麻烦。”

‘How dare you make any comparison between my father and you, Fred?’ said Mary, in a deep tone of indignation. ‘He never got into trouble by thinking of his own idle pleasures, but because he was always thinking of the work he was doing for other people. And he has fared hard, and worked hard to make good everybody’s loss.’
“弗雷德，你怎么敢拿我父亲和你作比较？”玛丽语气中充满了愤慨。 “他从来不会因为想着自己的闲暇享乐而陷入麻烦，而是因为他总是想着自己为别人所做的工作。他表现得很努力，并努力弥补每个人的损失。

‘And you think that I shall never try to make good anything, Mary. It is not generous to believe the worst of a man. When you have got any power over him, I think you might try and use it to make him better i but that is what you never do. However, I’m going,’ Fred ended, languidly. ‘I shall never speak to you about anything again. I’m very sorry for all the trouble I’ve caused—that’s all.’
“你认为我永远不会尝试做出任何好事，玛丽。相信一个人最坏的一面是不慷慨的。当你对他有任何权力时，我想你可能会尝试用它来让他变得更好，但那是你永远不会做的。不过，我还是要走了。”弗雷德懒洋洋地说道。 ‘我再也不会和你谈论任何事情了。对于我造成的所有麻烦，我感到非常抱歉——仅此而已。

Mary had dropped her work out of her hand and looked up. There is often something maternal even in a girlish love, and Mary’s hard experience had wrought her nature to an impressibility very different from that hard slight thing which we call girlishness. At Fred’s last words she felt an instantaneous pang, something like what a mother feels at the imagined sobs or cries of her naughty truant child, which may lose itself and get harm. And when, looking up, her eyes met his dull despairing glance, her pity for him surmounted her anger and all her other anxieties.
玛丽放下手中的工作，抬起头来。即使在少女般的爱情中，也常常有一些母性的东西，而玛丽的苦难经历使她的天性变得易受影响，这与我们称之为少女气的那种冷漠的、微不足道的东西截然不同。听到弗雷德的最后一句话，她立刻感到一阵剧痛，就像一位母亲在想象她顽皮的逃学孩子的抽泣或哭泣时所感受到的那样，孩子可能会失去自我并受到伤害。当她抬起头，与他暗淡绝望的目光相遇时，她对他的怜悯超越了她的愤怒和所有其他的焦虑。

‘Oh, Fred, how ill you look! Sit down a moment. Don’t go yet. Let me tell uncle that you are here. He has been wondering that he has not seen you for a whole week.’ Mary spoke hurriedly, saying the words that came first without knowing very well what they were, but saying them in a half-soothing half-beseeching tone, and rising as if to go away to Mr. Featherstone. Of course Fred felt as if the clouds had parted and a gleam had come: he moved and stood in her way.
“哦，弗雷德，你看上去病得多严重啊！坐下来一会儿。还不走。让我告诉叔叔你来了。他很奇怪自己已经整整一个星期没有见到你了。”玛丽急忙说道，她不太清楚最初说的话是什么，但语气半是安慰半是恳求，然后站了起来。如果去费瑟斯通先生那里的话。当然，弗雷德感觉好像乌云已经散去，一道曙光出现了：他移动并挡住了她的去路。

‘Say one word, Mary, and I will do anything. Say you will not think the worst of me—will not give me up altogether.’
“只要说一句话，玛丽，我就会做任何事。说你不会把我想得最坏——不会完全放弃我。

‘As if it were any pleasure to me to think ill of you,’ said Mary, in a mournful tone. ‘As if it were not very painful to me to see you an idle frivolous creature. How can you bear to be so contemptible, when others are working and striving, and there are so many things to be done—how can you bear to be fit for nothing in the world that is useful? And with so much good in your disposition, Fred,— you might be worth a great deal.’
“好像我很高兴想到你一样，”玛丽用悲伤的语气说道。 ‘好像看到你这个无所事事、轻浮的人对我来说并不是很痛苦似的。别人都在努力奋斗，有那么多事情要做，你怎么能忍受自己如此卑鄙，你怎么能忍受自己一事无成呢？弗雷德，你的性情如此之好，——你可能值很多钱。”

‘I will try to be anything you like, Mary, if you will say that you love me.’
“玛丽，如果你说你爱我，我会尽力成为你喜欢的任何人。”

‘I should be ashamed to say that I loved a man who must always be hanging on others, and reckoning on what they would do for him. What will you be when you are forty? Like Mr. Bowyer, I suppose— just as idle, living in Mrs. Beck’s front parlor—fat and shabby, hoping somebody will invite you to dinner—spending your morning in learning a comic song—oh no! learning a tune on the flute.’
“我应该感到羞愧地说，我爱一个必须总是依靠别人，并考虑他们会为他做什么的人。当你四十岁的时候，你会成为什么样的人？我想，就像鲍耶先生一样——同样无所事事，住在贝克夫人的前厅——又胖又破旧，希望有人邀请你去吃晚饭——用早上的时间学习一首喜剧歌曲——哦不！学习长笛曲调。

Mary’s lips had begun to curl with a smile as soon as she had asked that question about Fred’s future (young souls are mobile), and before she ended, her face had its full illumination of fun. To him it was like the cessation of an ache that Mary could laugh at him, and with a passive sort of smile he tried to reach her hand; but she slipped away quickly towards the door and said, ‘I shall tell uncle. You MUST see him for a moment or two.’
当玛丽问起关于弗雷德的未来的问题时，她的嘴唇就开始微笑起来（年轻的灵魂是流动的），在她结束之前，她的脸上充满了乐趣。对他来说，玛丽能嘲笑他就好像疼痛停止了一样，他带着一种被动的微笑试图去够她的手；但她的手却在她的手上。但她很快就溜向门口，说道：“我要告诉叔叔。”你必须见他一两分钟。

Fred secretly felt that his future was guaranteed against the fulfilment of Mary’s sarcastic prophecies, apart from that ‘anything’ which he was ready to do if she would define it He never dared in Mary’s presence to approach the subject of his expectations from Mr. Featherstone, and she always ignored them, as if everything depended on himself. But if ever he actually came into the property, she must recognize the change in his position. All this passed through his mind somewhat languidly, before he went up to see his uncle. He stayed but a little while, excusing himself on the ground that he had a cold; and Mary did not reappear before he left the house. But as he rode home, he began to be more conscious of being ill, than of being melancholy.
弗雷德暗自觉得，他的未来不会像玛丽讽刺的预言那样实现，除了他准备做的“任何事”，只要她定义它。他从来不敢当着玛丽的面谈论费瑟斯通先生对他的期望。而她却总是不理会他们，仿佛一切都取决于自己。但如果他真的进入了这处房产，她就必须认识到他地位的变化。这一切在他的脑海里略显慵懒地闪过，然后他就上楼去见叔叔了。他只呆了一会儿，借口感冒了。在他离开家之前，玛丽就没有再出现。但当他骑车回家时，他开始更多地意识到自己生病了，而不是忧郁。

When Caleb Garth arrived at Stone Court soon after dusk, Mary was not surprised, although he seldom had leisure for paying her a visit, and was not at all fond of having to talk with Mr. Featherstone. The old man, on the other hand, felt himself ill at ease with a brother-in-law whom he could not annoy, who did not mind about being considered poor, had nothing to ask of him, and understood all kinds of farming and mining business better than he did. But Mary had felt sure that her parents would want to see her, and if her father had not come, she would have obtained leave to go home for an hour or two the next day. After discussing prices during tea with Mr. Featherstone Caleb rose to bid him good-by, and said, ‘I want to speak to you, Mary.’
当凯莱布·加斯在黄昏后不久到达斯通庭院时，玛丽并不感到惊讶，尽管他很少有闲暇拜访她，而且一点也不喜欢与费瑟斯通先生交谈。而老人则对自己的姐夫感到不自在，因为他不能惹恼他，他也不介意被认为是穷人，对他没什么要求，而且了解各种农事和农事。采矿业比他做得更好。但玛丽确信她的父母会想见她，如果她父亲没有来，她第二天就会请假回家一两个小时。在与费瑟斯通先生讨论价格后，凯勒起身向他告别，并说道：“玛丽，我想和你谈谈。”

She took a candle into another large parlor, where there was no fire, and setting down the feeble light on the dark mahogany table, turned round to her father, and putting her arms round his neck kissed him with childish kisses which he delighted in,—the expression of his large brows softening as the expression of a great beautiful dog softens when it is caressed. Mary was his favorite child, and whatever Susan might say, and right as she was on all other subjects, Caleb thought it natural that Fred or any one else should think Mary more lovable than other girls.
她拿着一支蜡烛走进另一间没有生火的大客厅，把微弱的灯光放在深色的桃花心木桌子上，转向她的父亲，用双臂搂住他的脖子，用孩子般的吻吻了他，他很高兴， ——他的大眉毛的表情变得柔和，就像一只美丽的大狗被爱抚时表情变得柔和一样。玛丽是他最喜欢的孩子，无论苏珊怎么说，而且正如她在所有其他问题上的看法一样，凯勒布认为弗雷德或任何其他人都应该认为玛丽比其他女孩更可爱，这是很自然的。

‘I’ve got something to tell you, my dear,’ said Caleb in his hesitating way. ‘No very good news; but then it might be worse.’
“我有件事要告诉你，亲爱的，”凯莱布犹豫地说。 “没有什么好消息；但那样的话情况可能会更糟。

‘About money, father? I think I know what it is.’
“关于钱的事，父亲？我想我知道那是什么。

‘Ay? how can that be? You see, I’ve been a bit of a fool again, and put my name to a bill, and now it comes to paying; and your mother has got to part with her savings, that’s the worst of it, and even they won’t quite make things even. We wanted a hundred and ten pounds: your mother has ninety-two, and I have none to spare in the bank; and she thinks that you have some savings.’
‘嗯？怎么可能？你看，我又犯傻了，把我的名字写在账单上，现在就到了付款的时候了；而你的母亲不得不花掉她的积蓄，这是最糟糕的，即使他们也无法完全平衡。我们要一百一十英镑：你妈妈有九十二英镑，而我银行里没有多余的钱；她认为你有一些积蓄。

‘Oh yes; I have more than four-and-twenty pounds. I thought you would come, father, so I put it in my bag. See! beautiful white notes and gold.’
'哦是的;我有四二十多磅。我以为你会来，爸爸，所以我把它放进了我的包里。看！美丽的白色音符和金色。”

Mary took out the folded money from her reticule and put it into her father’s hand.
玛丽从手提包里拿出折叠起来的钱，放在父亲手里。

‘Well, but how—we only want eighteen—here, put the rest back, child,—but how did you know about it?’ said Caleb, who, in his unconquerable indifference to money, was beginning to be chiefly concerned about the relation the affair might have to Mary’s affections.
“好吧，但是——我们只想要十八个——在这里，把剩下的放回去，孩子——但是你怎么知道的？”凯莱布说，他对金钱有着不可克服的冷漠，他开始主要关心的是这件事可能与玛丽的感情有关。

‘Fred told me this morning.’
“弗雷德今天早上告诉我的。”

‘Ah! Did he come on purpose?’
'啊！他是故意来的吗？

‘Yes, I think so. He was a good deal distressed.’
'是的，我想是这样。他非常苦恼。

‘I’m afraid Fred is not to be trusted, Mary,’ said the father, with hesitating tenderness. ‘He means better than he acts, perhaps. But I should think it a pity for any body’s happiness to be wrapped up in him, and so would your mother.’
“恐怕弗雷德不值得信任，玛丽，”父亲带着犹豫的温柔说道。 “也许他的意思比他的行为更好。”但我认为，任何人的幸福都被他包裹着是一件遗憾的事情，你的母亲也是如此。

‘And so should I, father,’ said Mary, not looking up, but putting the back of her father’s hand against her cheek.
“我也应该这么做，父亲，”玛丽说，没有抬头，而是把父亲的手背贴在自己的脸颊上。

‘I don’t want to pry, my dear. But I was afraid there might be something between you and Fred, and I wanted to caution you. You see, Mary’—here Caleb’s voice became more tender; he had been pushing his hat about on the table and looking at it, but finally he turned his eyes on his daughter—‘a woman, let her be as good as she may, has got to put up with the life her husband makes for her. Your mother has had to put up with a good deal because of me.’
“我不想打听，亲爱的。但我担心你和弗雷德之间可能有什么事情，我想提醒你。你看，玛丽”——此时凯莱布的声音变得更加温柔了。他一直把帽子在桌子上推来推去，看着它，但最后他把目光转向了他的女儿——“一个女人，不管她有多优秀，都必须忍受她丈夫所创造的生活。”她。因为我，你妈妈不得不忍受很多事情。

Mary turned the back of her father’s hand to her lips and smiled at him.
玛丽将父亲的手背放到唇边，对他微笑。

‘Well, well, nobody’s perfect, but’—here Mr. Garth shook his head to help out the inadequacy of words—‘what I am thinking of is— what it must be for a wife when she’s never sure of her husband, when he hasn’t got a principle in him to make him more afraid of doing the wrong thing by others than of getting his own toes pinched. That’s the long and the short of it, Mary. Young folks may get fond of each other before they know what life is, and they may think it all holiday if they can only get together; but it soon turns into working day, my dear. However, you have more sense than most, and you haven’t been kept in cotton-wool: there may be no occasion for me to say this, but a father trembles for his daughter, and you are all by yourself here.’
“好吧，好吧，没有人是完美的，但是”——说到这里，加斯先生摇了摇头，以弥补言语的不足——“我想到的是——对于一个妻子来说，当她对自己的丈夫不确定时，当她不确定自己的丈夫时，她必须做什么？他身上没有原则，让他更害怕别人做错事，而不是自己的脚趾被夹到。这就是它的长处和短处，玛丽。年轻人可能在懂得生活是什么之前就喜欢上了对方，他们可能认为只要能聚在一起就一切都是假期了；但很快就变成工作日了，亲爱的。然而，你比大多数人更有理智，而且你没有被困在棉絮中：我可能没有机会说这些，但一个父亲为他的女儿颤抖，而你一个人在这里。

‘Don’t fear for me, father,’ said Mary, gravely meeting her father’s eyes; ‘Fred has always been very good to me; he is kind-hearted and affectionate, and not false, I think, with all his self-indulgence. But I will never engage myself to one who has no manly independence, and who goes on loitering away his time on the chance that others will provide for him. You and my mother have taught me too much pride for that.’
“别为我担心，父亲。”玛丽严肃地看着父亲的眼睛说道。 “弗雷德对我一直很好；我认为他心地善良，充满感情，而且一点也不虚伪，尽管他很自我放纵。但我永远不会与一个没有男子气概的独立性、并且为了别人能养活他而浪费时间的人交往。你和我的母亲为此教会了我太多的自豪感。

‘That’s right—that’s right. Then I am easy,’ said Mr. Garth, taking up his {hat or bet. ????} But it’s hard to run away with your earnings, eh child.’
「对了——对了。那我就轻松了，”加思先生拿起他的帽子或赌注说道。 ????}但是你很难带着你的收入逃跑，呃孩子。

‘Father!’ said Mary, in her deepest tone of remonstrance. ‘Take pocketfuls of love besides to them all at home,’ was her last word before he closed the outer door on himself.
“父亲！”玛丽用她最深沉的抗议语气说道。 “除了家里的所有东西之外，还要带上满满一袋的爱。”这是她关上外门之前的最后一句话。

‘I suppose your father wanted your earnings,’ said old Mr. Featherstone, with his usual power of unpleasant surmise, when Mary returned to him. ‘He makes but a tight fit, I reckon. You’re of age now; you ought to be saving for yourself.’
“我想你的父亲想要你的收入，”当玛丽回到老费瑟斯通先生身边时，他用他一贯的令人不快的猜测能力说道。 “我认为他只是太合身了。”你现在已经成年了；你应该为自己存钱。

‘I consider my father and mother the best part of myself, sir,’ said Mary, coldly.
“我认为我的父母是我身上最好的部分，先生，”玛丽冷冷地说。

Mr. Featherstone grunted: he could not deny that an ordinary sort of girl like her might be expected to be useful, so he thought of another rejoinder, disagreeable enough to be always apropos. ‘If Fred Vincy comes to-morrow, now, don’t you keep him chattering: let him come up to me.’
费瑟斯通先生咕哝道：他不能否认，像她这样的普通女孩可能会有用处，所以他想到了另一个反驳，尽管令人不快，但总是恰到好处。 “如果弗雷德·文西明天来，现在，你不要让他喋喋不休：让他来找我。”

CHAPTER XXVI
第二十六章

“He beats me and I rail at him: O worthy satisfaction! would it were otherwise—that I could beat him while he railed at me.—‘
“他打我，我责骂他：啊，值得满足！否则的话会不会——我可以在他辱骂我的时候打败他。——”

—Troilus and Cressida.
——特洛伊罗斯和克瑞西达。

But Fred did not go to Stone Court the next day, for reasons that were quite peremptory. From those visits to unsanitary Houndsley streets in search of Diamond, he had brought back not only a bad bargain in horse-flesh, but the further misfortune of some ailment which for a day or two had deemed mere depression and headache, but which got so much worse when he returned from his visit to Stone Court that, going into the dining-room, he threw himself on the sofa, and in answer to his mother’s anxious question, said, ‘I feel very ill: I think you must send for Wrench.’
但第二天弗雷德并没有去石阁，原因很不容置疑。在那些不卫生的亨兹利街道寻找钻石的过程中，他不仅带回了一笔糟糕的马肉交易，而且还带来了某种疾病的不幸，在一两天内，这些疾病被认为只是抑郁和头痛，但后来却变得如此糟糕。更糟糕的是，当他从斯通考特回来时，他走进餐厅，一头倒在沙发上，回答他母亲焦急的问题时说：“我感觉很不舒服：我想你必须派人去叫人过来。”扳手。'

Wrench came, but did not apprehend anything serious, spoke of a ‘slight derangement,’ and did not speak of coming again on the morrow. He had a due value for the Vincys’ house, but the wariest men are apt to be dulled by routine, and on worried mornings will sometimes go through their business with the zest of the daily bell-ringer. Mr. Wrench was a small, neat, bilious man, with a well-dressed wig: he had a laborious practice, an irascible temper, a lymphatic wife and seven children; and he was already rather late before setting out on a four-miles drive to meet Dr. Minchin on the other side of Tipton, the decease of Hicks, a rural practitioner, having increased Middlemarch practice in that direction. Great statesmen err, and why not small medical men? Mr. Wrench did not neglect sending the usual white parcels, which this time had black and drastic contents. Their effect was not alleviating to poor Fred, who, however, unwilling as he said to believe that he was ‘in for an illness,’ rose at his usual easy hour the next morning and went down-stairs meaning to breakfast, but succeeded in nothing but in sitting and shivering by the fire. Mr. Wrench was again sent for, but was gone on his rounds, and Mrs. Vincy seeing her darling’s changed looks and general misery, began to cry and said she would send for Dr. Sprague.
扳手来了，但没有意识到有什么严重的事情，他说有“轻微的精神错乱”，并且没有说明天会再来。他对文西家的房子有应有的重视，但最谨慎的人很容易因例行公事而变得迟钝，在忧​​心忡忡的早晨，有时会带着每日敲钟人的热情处理他们的事务。扳手先生是个身材矮小、爱干净、脾气暴躁的人，戴着一顶考究的假发：他的工作很辛苦，脾气暴躁，有一个淋巴液丰富的妻子和七个孩子；他的工作很辛苦，脾气暴躁。在出发四英里车程去蒂普顿另一边与明钦医生会面之前，他已经很晚了，希克斯是一位乡村医生，他在这个方向上增加了米德尔马奇的实践。伟大的政治家都会犯错，为什么小医学家就不会犯错呢？扳手先生并没有忘记寄出通常的白色包裹，这次包裹里装的是黑色的、颜色浓烈的东西。它们的效果并没有减轻可怜的弗雷德，然而，正如他所说，他不愿意相信自己“生病了”，第二天早上按照平常轻松的时间起床，下楼打算吃早餐，但成功了除了坐在火边瑟瑟发抖之外什么也没有。扳手先生再次被叫来，但他已经出去巡视了，文西夫人看到她亲爱的面容改变和普遍的痛苦，开始哭泣，说她会派人去叫斯普拉格医生。

‘Oh, nonsense, mother! It’s nothing,’ said Fred, putting out his hot dry hand to her, ‘I shall soon be all right. I must have taken cold in that nasty damp ride.’
‘噢，胡言乱语，妈妈！没什么，”弗雷德向她伸出又热又干的手，“我很快就会好起来的。我一定是在那次令人讨厌的潮湿的旅程中感冒了。

‘Mamma!’ said Rosamond, who was seated near the window (the dining-room windows looked on that highly respectable street called Lowick Gate), ‘there is Mr. Lydgate, stopping to speak to some one. If I were you I would call him in. He has cured Ellen Bulstrode. They say he cures every one.’
“妈妈！”坐在窗边的罗莎蒙德说道（餐厅的窗户正对着那条非常受人尊敬的叫做洛威克门的街道），“利德盖特先生正在停下来跟某人说话。如果我是你，我就会叫他进来。他治愈了艾伦·布尔斯特罗德。他们说他能治愈所有人。”

Mrs. Vincy sprang to the window and opened it in an instant, thinking only of Fred and not of medical etiquette. Lydgate was only two yards off on the other side of some iron palisading, and turned round at the sudden sound of the sash, before she called to him. In two minutes he was in the room, and Rosamond went out, after waiting just long enough to show a pretty anxiety conflicting with her sense of what was becoming.
文西夫人跳到窗前，立即打开窗户，只想着弗雷德，没有考虑医疗礼仪。利德盖特距离铁栅栏的另一边只有两码远，在她叫住他之前，突然听到腰带的声音，她转过身来。两分钟后他就进了房间，罗莎蒙德等了足够长的时间后就出去了，表现出一种相当焦虑的情绪，这与她对即将发生的事情的感觉相冲突。

Lydgate had to hear a narrative in which Mrs. Vincy’s mind insisted with remarkable instinct on every point of minor importance, especially on what Mr. Wrench had said and had not said about coming again. That there might be an awkward affair with Wrench, Lydgate saw at once; but the ease was serious enough to make him dismiss that consideration: he was convinced that Fred was in the pink-skinned stage of typhoid fever, and that he had taken just the wrong medicines. He must go to bed immediately, must have a regular nurse, and various appliances and precautions must be used, about which Lydgate was particular. Poor Mrs. Vincy’s terror at these indications of danger found vent in such words as came most easily. She thought it ‘very ill usage on the part of Mr. Wrench, who had attended their house so many years in preference to Mr. Peacock, though Mr. Peacock was equally a friend. Why Mr. Wrench should neglect her children more than others, she could not for the life of her understand. He had not neglected Mrs. Larcher’s when they had the measles, nor indeed would Mrs. Vincy have wished that he should. And if anything should happen—‘
利德盖特必须听到这样的叙述，其中文西夫人的头脑以非凡的本能坚持认为每一个次要的要点，特别是关于扳手先生说过和没有说过的关于再来的事情。利德盖特立刻意识到，他和扳手之间可能会发生一些尴尬的事情。但这种不适严重到足以让他打消这个念头：他确信弗雷德正处于伤寒的粉红色皮肤阶段，而且他吃错了药。他必须立即上床睡觉，必须有一名固定护士，必须使用各种器具和预防措施，利德盖特对此特别强调。可怜的文西夫人对这些危险迹象的恐惧，用最容易说出来的话来发泄。她认为，“扳手先生的做法非常不妥，多年来，扳手先生经常来他们家，而不是孔雀先生，尽管孔雀先生同样是我们的朋友。”为什么扳手先生比其他人更忽视她的孩子，她一辈子也无法理解。当他们患麻疹时，他并没有忽视拉彻夫人的照顾，事实上，文西夫人也不希望他这样做。如果发生什么事情的话——”

Here poor Mrs. Vincy’s spirit quite broke down, and her Niobe throat and good-humored face were sadly convulsed. This was in the hall out of Fred’s hearing, but Rosamond had opened the drawing-room door, and now came forward anxiously. Lydgate apologized for Mr. Wrench, said that the symptoms yesterday might have been disguising, and that this form of fever was very equivocal in its beginnings: he would go immediately to the druggist’s and have a prescription made up in order to lose no time, but he would write to Mr. Wrench and tell him what had been done.
说到这里，可怜的文西夫人的精神彻底崩溃了，她那尼俄伯般的喉咙和和蔼可亲的脸都悲伤地抽搐着。这是在大厅里，弗雷德听不到，但罗莎蒙德已经打开了客厅的门，现在焦急地走上前来。利德盖特为扳手先生道歉，说昨天的症状可能是伪装的，这种形式的发烧一开始就很模棱两可：他会立即去药剂师那里开处方，以免浪费时间，但他会写信给扳手先生并告诉他做了什么。

‘But you must come again—you must go on attending Fred. I can’t have my boy left to anybody who may come or not. I bear nobody ill-will, thank God, and Mr. Wrench saved me in the pleurisy, but he’d better have let me die—if—if—‘
“但是你必须再来——你必须继续照顾弗雷德。我不能把我的孩子留给任何可能来或不来的人。感谢上帝，我没有恶意，扳手先生救了我的胸膜炎，但他最好让我死——如果——如果——”

‘I will meet Mr. Wrench here, then, shall I?’ said Lydgate, really believing that Wrench was not well prepared to deal wisely with a case of this kind.
“那么，我会在这里见到扳手先生，可以吗？”利德盖特说道，他真的相信扳手还没有做好明智地处理此类案件的准备。

‘Pray make that arrangement, Mr. Lydgate,’ said Rosamond, coming to her mother’s aid, and supporting her arm to lead her away.
“请做出这样的安排，利德盖特先生，”罗莎蒙德说道，一边向她母亲伸出援手，一边扶着她的手臂，带她离开。

When Mr. Vincy came home he was very angry with Wrench, and did not care if he never came into his house again. Lydgate should go on now, whether Wrench liked it or not. It was no joke to have fever in the house. Everybody must be sent to now, not to come to dinner on Thursday. And Pritchard needn’t get up any wine: brandy was the best thing against infection. ‘I shall drink brandy,’ added Mr. Vincy, emphatically—as much as to say, this was not an occasion for firing with blank-cartridges. ‘He’s an uncommonly unfortunate lad, is Fred. He’d need have—some luck by-and-by to make up for all this—else I don’t know who’d have an eldest son.’
当文西先生回到家时，他对扳手非常生气，并且不在乎他是否再也不来他家了。不管扳手喜欢与否，利德盖特现在应该继续下去。在家里发烧可不是闹着玩的。每个人都必须被送到现在，而不是周四来吃晚饭。普里查德不需要喝酒：白兰地是对抗感染的最佳药物。 “我要喝白兰地，”文西先生强调道，这可以说，这不是用空弹射击的场合。 “弗雷德是一个非常不幸的小伙子。”他需要一些运气来弥补这一切，否则我不知道谁会有一个长子。

‘Don’t say so, Vincy,’ said the mother, with a quivering lip, ‘if you don’t want him to be taken from me.’
“文西，如果你不想把他从我身边夺走，就别这么说，”母亲嘴唇颤抖地说。

‘It will worret you to death, Lucy; THAT I can see,’ said Mr. Vincy, more mildly. ‘However, Wrench shall know what I think of the matter.’ (What Mr. Vincy thought confusedly was, that the fever might somehow have been hindered if Wrench had shown the proper solicitude about his— the Mayor’s—family.) ‘I’m the last man to give in to the cry about new doctors, or new parsons either—whether they’re Bulstrode’s men or not. But Wrench shall know what I think, take it as he will.’
“这会让你烦恼死的，露西；我看得出来，”文西先生更加温和地说。 “不过，扳手应该知道我对这件事的看法。”（文西先生困惑地想，如果扳手对他的——市长的——家人表现出适当的关心，发烧可能会以某种方式得到抑制。）“我”我是最后一个对新医生或新牧师的呼声屈服的人——无论他们是否是布尔斯特罗德的人。但扳手会知道我的想法，随他便吧。

Wrench did not take it at all well. Lydgate was as polite as he could be in his offhand way, but politeness in a man who has placed you at a disadvantage is only an additional exasperation, especially if he happens to have been an object of dislike beforehand. Country practitioners used to be an irritable species, susceptible on the point of honor; and Mr. Wrench was one of the most irritable among them. He did not refuse to meet Lydgate in the evening, but his temper was somewhat tried on the occasion. He had to hear Mrs. Vincy say—
扳手根本没能很好地接受它。利德盖特以他随意的方式表现得尽可能有礼貌，但对一个让你处于不利地位的人表现出礼貌只会让你更加恼火，特别是如果他之前碰巧是一个不喜欢的对象。乡村从业者曾经是一个易怒的物种，容易受到荣誉问题的影响。扳手先生是其中最易怒的人之一。他并没有拒绝晚上与利德盖特会面，但这一次他的脾气有些受到考验。他必须听到文西夫人说——

‘Oh, Mr. Wrench, what have I ever done that you should use me so?— To go away, and never to come again! And my boy might have been stretched a corpse!’
“哦，扳手先生，我到底做了什么让你如此利用我？——走开，再也不会来！”我的孩子可能已经被拉成一具尸体了！

Mr. Vincy, who had been keeping up a sharp fire on the enemy Infection, and was a good deal heated in consequence, started up when he heard Wrench come in, and went into the hall to let him know what he thought.
文西先生一直在对敌人的“感染”进行猛烈攻击，结果非常激动，当他听到扳手进来时，他惊跳起来，走进大厅让他知道自己的想法。

‘I’ll tell you what, Wrench, this is beyond a joke,’ said the Mayor, who of late had had to rebuke offenders with an official air, and how broadened himself by putting his thumbs in his armholes.— ‘To let fever get unawares into a house like this. There are some things that ought to be actionable, and are not so— that’s my opinion.’
“我来告诉你，扳手，这可不是一个笑话，”市长说，他最近不得不以一种官方的态度斥责违法者，以及如何通过将拇指放在袖孔中来扩大自己的范围。发烧会不知不觉地进入这样的房子。有些事情应该是可行的，但事实并非如此——这就是我的观点。

But irrational reproaches were easier to bear than the sense of being instructed, or rather the sense that a younger man, like Lydgate, inwardly considered him in need of instruction, for ‘in point of fact,’ Mr. Wrench afterwards said, Lydgate paraded flighty, foreign notions, which would not wear. He swallowed his ire for the moment, but he afterwards wrote to decline further attendance in the case. The house might be a good one, but Mr. Wrench was not going to truckle to anybody on a professional matter. He reflected, with much probability on his side, that Lydgate would by-and-by be caught tripping too, and that his ungentlemanly attempts to discredit the sale of drugs by his professional brethren, would by-and-by recoil on himself. He threw out biting remarks on Lydgate’s tricks, worthy only of a quack, to get himself a factitious reputation with credulous people. That cant about cures was never got up by sound practitioners.
但非理性的责备比受到指导的感觉更容易忍受，或者更确切地说，像利德盖特这样的年轻人内心认为他需要指导，因为“事实上”，扳手先生后来说，利德盖特游行轻浮的、外国的观念，这些观念是不会磨损的。他暂时忍住了怒火，但后来写信拒绝进一步出庭。这所房子可能是一栋好房子，但扳手先生不会在专业问题上向任何人屈服。他认为，利德盖特很有可能也会被绊倒，而他不绅士地试图抹黑他的职业弟兄们销售毒品的行为，很快就会让自己感到反感。他对利德盖特的伎俩发表了尖刻的评论，只配得上江湖郎中，为的是让自己在轻信的人中获得虚假的声誉。健全的从业者从来没有提出过关于治疗的黑话。

This was a point on which Lydgate smarted as much as Wrench could desire. To be puffed by ignorance was not only humiliating, but perilous, and not more enviable than the reputation of the weather-prophet. He was impatient of the foolish expectations amidst which all work must be carried on, and likely enough to damage himself as much as Mr. Wrench could wish, by an unprofessional openness.
在这一点上，利德盖特感到非常不满，正如扳手所希望的那样。因无知而自吹自擂不仅是一种耻辱，而且是危险的，并不比气象预言家的名声更令人羡慕。他对愚蠢的期望感到不耐烦，所有的工作都必须在这种期望中进行，而且很可能会因为不专业的开放而损害自己，正如扳手先生所希望的那样。

However, Lydgate was installed as medical attendant on the Vincys, and the event was a subject of general conversation in Middlemarch. Some said, that the Vincys had behaved scandalously, that Mr. Vincy had threatened Wrench, and that Mrs. Vincy had accused him of poisoning her son. Others were of opinion that Mr. Lydgate’s passing by was providential, that he was wonderfully clever in fevers, and that Bulstrode was in the right to bring him forward. Many people believed that Lydgate’s coming to the town at all was really due to Bulstrode; and Mrs. Taft, who was always counting stitches and gathered her information in misleading fragments caught between the rows of her knitting, had got it into her head that Mr. Lydgate was a natural son of Bulstrode’s, a fact which seemed to justify her suspicions of evangelical laymen.
然而，利德盖特被任命为文西号的医务人员，这一事件成为米德尔马契普遍谈论的话题。有人说，文西一家的行为十分恶劣，文西先生威胁过扳手，文西夫人指控他毒害了她的儿子。其他人则认为利德盖特先生的路过是天意，他在发烧时非常聪明，布尔斯特罗德有权利把他带上来。许多人相信利德盖特来到这个小镇实际上是因为布尔斯特罗德。塔夫脱夫人总是数针数，并通过夹在编织行之间的误导性碎片收集信息，她已经意识到利德盖特先生是布尔斯特罗德的亲生儿子，这一事实似乎证明了她的怀疑是正确的福音派平信徒。

She one day communicated this piece of knowledge to Mrs. Farebrother, who did not fail to tell her son of it, observing—
有一天，她把这一消息告诉了费勒布拉泽夫人，费勒布拉泽夫人也把这件事告诉了她的儿子，并观察到——

‘I should not be surprised at anything in Bulstrode, but I should be sorry to think it of Mr. Lydgate.’
“我不应该对布尔斯特罗德的任何事情感到惊讶，但想到利德盖特先生，我就会感到遗憾。”

‘Why, mother,’ said Mr. Farebrother, after an explosive laugh, ‘you know very well that Lydgate is of a good family in the North. He never heard of Bulstrode before he came here.’
“哎呀，妈妈，”费雷布拉泽先生大笑起来，说道，“你很清楚利德盖特出身于北方的一个好家庭。在来这里之前，他从未听说过布尔斯特罗德。

‘That is satisfactory so far as Mr. Lydgate is concerned, Camden,’ said the old lady, with an air of precision.—‘But as to Bulstrode— the report may be true of some other son.’
“卡姆登，就利德盖特先生而言，这还算令人满意，”老太太语气精准地说。“但是对于布尔斯特罗德来说，这个报道可能对其他某个儿子来说是正确的。”

CHAPTER XXVII
第二十七章

Let the high Muse chant loves Olympian: We are but mortals, and must sing of man.
让崇高的缪斯吟唱热爱奥林匹斯山：我们不过是凡人，必须歌颂人类。

An eminent philosopher among my friends, who can dignify even your ugly furniture by lifting it into the serene light of science, has shown me this pregnant little fact. Your pier-glass or extensive surface of polished steel made to be rubbed by a housemaid, will be minutely and multitudinously scratched in all directions; but place now against it a lighted candle as a centre of illumination, and lo! the scratches will seem to arrange themselves in a fine series of concentric circles round that little sun. It is demonstrable that the scratches are going everywhere impartially and it is only your candle which produces the flattering illusion of a concentric arrangement, its light falling with an exclusive optical selection. These things are a parable. The scratches are events, and the candle is the egoism of any person now absent— of Miss Vincy, for example. Rosamond had a Providence of her own who had kindly made her more charming than other girls, and who seemed to have arranged Fred’s illness and Mr. Wrench’s mistake in order to bring her and Lydgate within effective proximity. It would have been to contravene these arrangements if Rosamond had consented to go away to Stone Court or elsewhere, as her parents wished her to do, especially since Mr. Lydgate thought the precaution needless. Therefore, while Miss Morgan and the children were sent away to a farmhouse the morning after Fred’s illness had declared itself, Rosamond refused to leave papa and mamma.
我的朋友中有一位杰出的哲学家，他甚至可以通过将你丑陋的家具提升到科学的宁静之光中来使它变得高贵，他向我展示了这个寓意深刻的小事实。你的穿衣玻璃或大面积的抛光钢表面是由女佣摩擦的，会在各个方向上被细微而大量的划伤；但现在在它上面放一根点燃的蜡烛作为照明中心，瞧！这些划痕似乎会围绕着那个小太阳排列成一系列精美的同心圆。可以证明，划痕公正地分布在各处，只有您的蜡烛才能产生同心排列的迷人幻觉，其光线具有独特的光学选择。这些事都是比喻。划痕是事件，蜡烛是现在缺席的任何人的利己主义——例如文西小姐。罗莎蒙德有自己的天意，他仁慈地让她比其他女孩更迷人，而且他似乎安排了弗雷德的病和扳手先生的错误，以便让她和利德盖特变得更接近。如果罗莎蒙德同意去斯通考特或其他地方，就像她父母希望她做的那样，那就违反了这些安排，特别是因为利德盖特先生认为这种预防措施是不必要的。因此，在弗雷德患病的第二天早上，摩根小姐和孩子们被送往农舍，而罗莎蒙德却拒绝离开爸爸和妈妈。

Poor mamma indeed was an object to touch any creature born of woman; and Mr. Vincy, who doted on his wife, was more alarmed on her account than on Fred’s. But for his insistence she would have taken no rest: her brightness was all bedimmed; unconscious of her costume which had always been se fresh and gay, she was like a sick bird with languid eye and plumage ruffled, her senses dulled to the sights and sounds that used most to interest her. Fred’s delirium, in which he seemed to be wandering out of her reach, tore her heart. After her first outburst against-Mr. Wrench she went about very quietly: her one low cry was to Lydgate. She would follow him out of the room and put her hand on his arm moaning out, ‘Save my boy.’ Once she pleaded, ‘He has always been good to me, Mr. Lydgate: he never had a hard word for his mother,’— as if poor Fred’s suffering were an accusation against him. All the deepest fibres of the mother’s memory were stirred, and the young man whose voice took a gentler tone when he spoke to her, was one with the babe whom she had loved, with a love new to her, before he was born.
可怜的妈妈确实是一个触摸任何女人所生的生物的对象。文西先生非常宠爱他的妻子，他对她的担忧比对弗雷德的担忧更严重。要不是他的坚持，她就不会休息：她的光彩全都黯淡了；她没有意识到自己一向清新、欢快的服装，就像一只病鸟，眼神无精打采，羽毛蓬乱，她的感官对过去最感兴趣的景象和声音变得迟钝。弗雷德的神志不清，似乎在她的接触范围之外徘徊，这撕裂了她的心。在她第一次对先生发脾气之后。她安静地走来走去：她唯一低声的叫声是对着利德盖特的。她会跟着他走出房间，把手放在他的手臂上，呻吟着，“救救我的孩子。”有一次她恳求道，“他一直对我很好，利德盖特先生：他从来没有对他的母亲说过难听的话。” ”——仿佛可怜的弗雷德的痛苦是对他的指控。母亲记忆最深处的所有纤维都被搅动了，那个年轻人对她说话时声音变得更加温和，他与她所爱的婴儿合而为一，带着一种在他出生之前对她来说是新的爱。

‘I have good hope, Mrs. Vincy,’ Lydgate would say. ‘Come down with me and let us talk about the food.’ In that way he led her to the parlor where Rosamond was, and made a change for her, surprising her into taking some tea or broth which had been prepared for her. There was a constant understanding between him and Rosamond on these matters. He almost always saw her before going to the sickroom, and she appealed to him as to what she could do for mamma. Her presence of mind and adroitness in carrying out his hints were admirable, and it is not wonderful that the idea of seeing Rosamond began to mingle itself with his interest in the case. Especially when the critical stage was passed, and he began to feel confident of Fred’s recovery. In the more doubtful time, he had advised calling in Dr. Sprague (who, if he could, would rather have remained neutral on Wrench’s account); but after two consultations, the conduct of the case was left to Lydgate, and there was every reason to make him assiduous. Morning and evening he was at Mr. Vincy’s, and gradually the visits became cheerful as Fred became simply feeble, and lay not only in need of the utmost petting but conscious of it, so that Mrs. Vincy felt as if, after all, the illness had made a festival for her tenderness.
“我有很好的希望，文西夫人，”利德盖特会说。 “跟我下来，我们来谈谈食物。”就这样，他把她带到了罗莎蒙德所在的客厅，并为她做了一些改变，让她惊讶地喝了一些为她准备的茶或肉汤。他和罗莎蒙德在这些问题上始终保持着默契。他几乎总是在去病房之前见到她，她向他请求她能为妈妈做些什么。她在执行他的暗示时的冷静和敏捷令人钦佩，而且见见罗莎蒙德的想法开始与他对案件的兴趣交织在一起，这并不奇怪。尤其是过了关键阶段，他开始对弗雷德的康复充满信心。在更加可疑的时候，他建议请斯普拉格博士（如果可以的话，斯普拉格博士宁愿在扳手的问题上保持中立）；但经过两次协商后，案件的处理交给了利德盖特，他完全有理由勤奋工作。早晚他都在文西先生家，渐渐地，拜访变得愉快起来，因为弗雷德变得非常虚弱，不仅需要最大程度的爱抚，而且意识到这一点，所以文西太太觉得毕竟，好像是疾病为她的温柔举办了一个节日。

Both father and mother held it an added reason for good spirits, when old Mr. Featherstone sent messages by Lydgate, saying that Fred-must make haste and get well, as he, Peter Featherstone, could not do without him, and missed his visits sadly. The old man himself was getting bedridden. Mrs. Vincy told these messages to Fred when he could listen, and he turned towards her his delicate, pinched face, from which all the thick blond hair had been cut away, and in which the eyes seemed to have got larger, yearning for some word about Mary—wondering what she felt about his illness. No word passed his lips; but ‘to hear with eyes belongs to love’s rare wit,’ and the mother in the fulness of her heart not only divined Fred’s longing, but felt ready for any sacrifice in order to satisfy him.
当老费瑟斯通先生通过利德盖特发来消息说弗雷德必须赶快康复，因为他，彼得·费瑟斯通离不开他，错过了他的来访时，父亲和母亲都认为这是一个保持良好精神状态的额外理由。可悲的是。老人本人也卧床不起。当弗雷德能听的时候，文西夫人把这些信息告诉了弗雷德，他把那张精致、紧绷的脸转向了她，脸上所有浓密的金发都被剪掉了，眼睛似乎变大了，渴望得到一些东西。关于玛丽的消息——想知道她对他的病有何感想。他嘴里没有说出任何一句话；但“用眼睛去听，是爱情中罕见的智慧”，这位母亲全心全意地不仅预见到了弗雷德的渴望，而且准备好为了满足他而做出任何牺牲。

‘If I can only see my boy strong again,’ she said, in her loving folly; ‘and who knows?—perhaps master of Stone Court! and he can marry anybody he likes then.’
“要是我能看到我的儿子再次坚强就好了，”她带着爱意的愚蠢说道。 ‘谁知道呢？——也许是石庭的主人！到时候他就可以和任何他喜欢的人结婚了。”

‘Not if they won’t have me, mother,’ said Fred. The illness had made him childish, and tears came as he spoke.
“如果他们不接受我的话就不会，妈妈，”弗雷德说。疾病让他显得很孩子气，说着说着就流下了眼泪。

‘Oh, take a bit of jelly, my dear,’ said Mrs. Vincy, secretly incredulous of any such refusal.
“哦，亲爱的，来一点果冻吧，”文西太太说，她暗自怀疑自己会拒绝这种做法。

She never left Fred’s side when her husband was not in the house, and thus Rosamond was in the unusual position of being much alone. Lydgate, naturally, never thought of staying long with her, yet it seemed that the brief impersonal conversations they had together were creating that peculiar intimacy which consists in shyness. They were obliged to look at each other in speaking, and somehow the looking could not be carried through as the matter of course which it really was. Lydgate began to feel this sort of consciousness unpleasant and one day looked down, or anywhere, like an ill-worked puppet. But this turned out badly: the next day, Rosamond looked down, and the consequence was that when their eyes met again, both were more conscious than before. There was no help for this in science, and as Lydgate did not want to flirt, there seemed to be no help for it in folly. It was therefore a relief when neighbors no longer considered the house in quarantine, and when the chances of seeing Rosamond alone were very much reduced.
当她丈夫不在家里时，她从来没有离开过弗雷德的身边，因此罗莎蒙德处于一个不寻常的境地，非常孤独。自然，利德盖特从来没有想过要和她待太久，然而，他们在一起进行的短暂的、非个人的谈话似乎正在创造出一种特殊的亲密感，这种亲密感包含在害羞之中。他们说话时不得不互相看着对方，但不知何故，这种眼神却无法理所当然地进行下去。利德盖特开始感到这种意识不愉快，有一天他低下头，或者任何地方，就像一个工作不良的木偶。但结果很糟糕：第二天，罗莎蒙德低下头，结果是当他们的目光再次相遇时，两人都比以前更有意识了。科学对此没有任何帮助，而且利德盖特不想调情，愚蠢似乎也无济于事。因此，当邻居们不再认为这所房子处于隔离状态，并且单独见到罗莎蒙德的机会大大减少时，我松了口气。

But that intimacy of mutual embarrassment, in which each feels that the other is feeling something, having once existed, its effect is not to be done away with. Talk about the weather and other well-bred topics is apt to seem a hollow device, and behavior can hardly become easy unless it frankly recognizes a mutual fascination—which of course need not mean anything deep or serious. This was the way in which Rosamond and Lydgate slid gracefully into ease, and made their intercourse lively again. Visitors came and went as usual, there was once more music in the drawing-room, and all the extra hospitality of Mr. Vincy’s mayoralty returned. Lydgate, whenever he could, took his seat by Rosamond’s side, and lingered to hear her music, calling himself her captive—meaning, all the while, not to be her captive. The preposterousness of the notion that he could at once set up a satisfactory establishment as a married man was a sufficient guarantee against danger. This play at being a little in love was agreeable, and did not interfere with graver pursuits. Flirtation, after all, was not necessarily a singeing process. Rosamond, for her part, had never enjoyed the days so much in her life before: she was sure of being admired by some one worth captivating, and she did not distinguish flirtation from love, either in herself or in another. She seemed to be sailing with a fair wind just whither she would go, and her thoughts were much occupied with a handsome house in Lowick Gate which she hoped would by-and-by be vacant. She was quite determined, when she was married, to rid herself adroitly of all the visitors who were not agreeable to her at her father’s; and she imagined the drawing-room in her favorite house with various styles of furniture.
但那种相互尴尬的亲密感，即双方都感觉到对方正在感受某种东西，一旦存在，其效果就不会消失。谈论天气和其他有教养的话题很容易显得空洞，除非坦白地认识到相互的迷恋，否则行为很难变得容易——这当然不需要意味着任何深刻或严肃的事情。就这样，罗莎蒙德和利德盖特优雅地进入了轻松状态，他们的交往再次变得活跃起来。来访者如往常一样来来去去，客厅里又响起了音乐，文西先生市长的热情好客又回来了。利德盖特一有机会就坐在罗莎蒙德身边，静静地听她的音乐，称自己为她的俘虏——意思是，一直以来，他都不是她的俘虏。他作为一个已婚男子可以立即建立一个令人满意的机构的想法是荒谬的，这足以保证他免受危险。这种有点恋爱的表现是令人愉快的，并且不会妨碍更严肃的追求。毕竟，调情并不一定是一个烧焦的过程。就罗莎蒙德而言，她一生中从未如此享受过这样的日子：她确信会受到某个值得迷恋的人的钦佩，而且她无法区分调情与爱情，无论是对自己还是对他人。她似乎正乘着顺风航行到她要去的地方，她的心思全在洛威克门的一栋漂亮的房子上，她希望它很快就会空置。她下定决心，结婚后，要巧妙地赶走她父亲家中所有不喜欢她的访客。她想象着她最喜欢的房子里的客厅里有各种风格的家具。

Certainly her thoughts were much occupied with Lydgate himself; he seemed to her almost perfect: if he had known his notes so that his enchantment under her music had been less like an emotional elephant’s, and if he had been able to discriminate better the refinements of her taste in dress, she could hardly have mentioned a deficiency in him. How different he was from young Plymdale or Mr. Caius Larcher! Those young men had not a notion of French, and could speak on no subject with striking knowledge, except perhaps the dyeing and carrying trades, which of course they were ashamed to mention; they were Middlemarch gentry, elated with their silver-headed whips and satin stocks, but embarrassed in their manners, and timidly jocose: even Fred was above them, having at least the accent and manner of a university man. Whereas Lydgate was always listened to, bore himself with the careless politeness of conscious superiority, and seemed to have the right clothes on by a certain natural affinity, without ever having to think about them. Rosamond was proud when he entered the room, and when he approached her with a distinguishing smile, she had a delicious sense that she was the object of enviable homage. If Lydgate had been aware of all the pride he excited in that delicate bosom, he might have been just as well pleased as any other man, even the most densely ignorant of humoral pathology or fibrous tissue: he held it one of the prettiest attitudes of the feminine mind to adore a man’s pre-eminence without too precise a knowledge of what it consisted in. But Rosamond was not one of those helpless girls who betray themselves unawares, and whose behavior is awkwardly driven by their impulses, instead of being steered by wary grace and propriety. Do you imagine that her rapid forecast and rumination concerning house-furniture and society were ever discernible in her conversation, even with her mamma? On the contrary, she would have expressed the prettiest surprise and disapprobation if she had heard that another young lady had been detected in that immodest prematureness—indeed, would probably have disbelieved in its possibility. For Rosamond never showed any unbecoming knowledge, and was always that combination of correct sentiments, music, dancing, drawing, elegant note-writing, private album for extracted verse, and perfect blond loveliness, which made the irresistible woman for the doomed man of that date. Think no unfair evil of her, pray: she had no wicked plots, nothing sordid or mercenary; in fact, she never thought of money except as something necessary which other people would always provide. She was not in the habit of devising falsehoods, and if her statements were no direct clew to fact, why, they were not intended in that light— they were among her elegant accomplishments, intended to please. Nature had inspired many arts in finishing Mrs. Lemon’s favorite pupil, who by general consent (Fred’s excepted) was a rare compound of beauty, cleverness, and amiability.
当然，她的心思主要集中在利德盖特本人身上。在她看来，他几乎是完美的：如果他熟悉自己的音符，那么他在她的音乐下的魅力就不那么像一头情绪化的大象，如果他能够更好地辨别她衣着品味的精致，她就几乎不会提到他身上的一个缺陷。他与年轻的普林代尔或凯厄斯·拉彻先生是多么不同啊！那些年轻人不懂法语，也无法以惊人的知识谈论任何话题，除了染色和运输行业，当然他们羞于提及。他们是米德尔马契的贵族，对他们的银头鞭子和缎子袜感到高兴，但他们的举止感到尴尬，而且胆怯地开玩笑：甚至弗雷德都在他们之上，至少有大学人的口音和举止。而利德盖特总是被人倾听，他表现出自觉优越感的漫不经心的礼貌，并且似乎以某种天生的亲和力穿上了合适的衣服，甚至不需要考虑它们。当他走进房间时，罗莎蒙德很自豪，当他带着独特的微笑走近她时，她有一种美妙的感觉，她是令人羡慕的崇拜对象。如果利德盖特意识到他在那精致的胸膛中所激发的所有自豪感，他可能会像其他任何人一样感到高兴，即使是对体液病理学或纤维组织最无知的人：他认为这是最漂亮的态度之一但罗莎蒙德并不是那种无助的女孩，她们会在不知不觉中背叛自己，她们的行为笨拙地受自己的冲动驱动，而不是被自己的冲动所引导。谨慎的优雅和礼节。 你是否认为她对家具和社会的快速预测和思考在她的谈话中是显而易见的，甚至与她的妈妈也是如此？相反，如果她听说另一位年轻女士被发现有这种不谦虚的早产行为，她会表示非常惊讶和不满——事实上，她可能会不相信这种可能性。因为罗莎蒙德从来没有表现出任何不相称的知识，她总是集正确的情感、音乐、舞蹈、绘画、优雅的笔记、摘录诗句的私人专辑和完美的金发可爱于一身，这使得她成为那个注定要失败的男人不可抗拒的女人。日期。请不要认为她有不公平的邪恶，祈祷：她没有邪恶的阴谋，没有任何肮脏或唯利是图的东西；事实上，她从来没有想过金钱，只是将其视为其他人总是会提供的必需品。她没有编造谎言的习惯，如果她的陈述与事实没有直接线索，那么，它们并不是出于这个目的——它们是她优雅的成就之一，旨在取悦他人。大自然在完成莱蒙夫人最喜爱的学生的过程中激发了许多艺术灵感，普遍认为莱蒙夫人（弗雷德的除外）是一个罕见的集美丽、聪明和和蔼可亲于一身的人。

Lydgate found it more and more agreeable to be with her, and there was no constraint now, there was a delightful interchange of influence in their eyes, and what they said had that superfluity of meaning for them, which is observable with some sense of flatness by a third person; still they had no interviews or asides from which a third person need have been excluded. In fact, they flirted; and Lydgate was secure in the belief that they did nothing else. If a man could not love and be wise, surely he could flirt and be wise at the same time? Really, the men in Middlemarch, except Mr. Farebrother, were great bores, and Lydgate did not care about commercial politics or cards: what was he to do for relaxation? He was often invited to the Bulstrodes’; but the girls there were hardly out of the schoolroom; and Mrs. Bulstrode’s NAIVE way of conciliating piety and worldliness, the nothingness of this life and the desirability of cut glass, the consciousness at once of filthy rags and the best damask, was not a sufficient relief from the weight of her husband’s invariable seriousness. The Vincys’ house, with all its faults, was the pleasanter by contrast; besides, it nourished Rosamond—sweet to look at as a half-opened blush-rose, and adorned with accomplishments for the refined amusement of man.
利德盖特发现和她在一起越来越愉快，现在不再有任何约束，他们的眼神中有令人愉快的相互影响，他们所说的话对他们来说具有多余的意义，这是可以通过某种平淡感观察到的由第三人；尽管如此，他们还是没有接受任何采访或旁白，第三人的需要被排除在外。事实上，他们在调情。利德盖特坚信他们没有做任何其他事情。如果一个人不能既爱又聪明，他肯定可以同时调情和聪明吗？确实，米德尔马契的人，除了费雷布拉泽先生之外，都是很无聊的人，而利德盖特并不关心商业政治或纸牌：他要做什么来放松呢？他经常被邀请去布尔斯特罗德家。但那里的女孩几乎没有走出教室。布尔斯特罗德夫人天真的调和虔诚与世俗、今生的虚无与雕花玻璃的渴望、肮脏的破布与最好的锦缎的意识，并不足以减轻她丈夫一贯严肃的负担。文西家的房子尽管有种种缺点，但相比之下却更令人愉快。此外，它还滋养了罗莎蒙德——看起来像一朵半开的红玫瑰，甜美可爱，并为人类的精致娱乐而装饰着成就。

But he made some enemies, other than medical, by his success with Miss Vincy. One evening he came into the drawing-room rather late, when several other visitors were there. The card-table had drawn off the elders, and Mr. Ned Plymdale (one of the good matches in Middlemarch, though not one of its leading minds) was in tete-a-tete with Rosamond. He had brought the last ‘Keepsake,’ the gorgeous watered-silk publication which marked modern progress at that time; and he considered himself very fortunate that he could be the first to look over it with her, dwelling on the ladies and gentlemen with shiny copper-plate cheeks and copper-plate smiles, and pointing to comic verses as capital and sentimental stories as interesting. Rosamond was gracious, and Mr. Ned was satisfied that he had the very best thing in art and literature as a medium for ‘paying addresses’—the very thing to please a nice girl. He had also reasons, deep rather than ostensible, for being satisfied with his own appearance. To superficial observers his chin had too vanishing an aspect, looking as if it were being gradually reabsorbed. And it did indeed cause him some difficulty about the fit of his satin stocks, for which chins were at that time useful.
但由于他与文西小姐的成功，他在医学上也树敌了。一天晚上，他很晚才走进客厅，当时那里还有其他几位客人。牌桌吸引了长老们的注意，内德·普林代尔先生（米德尔马契的好对手之一，尽管不是它的主要人物之一）正在与罗莎蒙德进行一对一的交谈。他带来了最后一本《纪念品》，这是一本华丽的水丝出版物，标志着当时现代的进步；他认为自己很幸运，他能成为第一个和她一起看的人，细细品味那些有着铜板般闪亮的脸颊和铜板般微笑的女士们和先生们，并指出喜剧诗句是资本，感伤故事是有趣的。罗莎蒙德很和蔼，内德先生很满意，因为他拥有艺术和文学中最好的东西作为“支付地址”的媒介——这正是取悦一个好女孩的东西。他对自己的外表感到满意也是有深层原因的，而不是表面上的。在肤浅的观察者看来，他的下巴看起来太消失了，看起来好像正在逐渐被重新吸收。这确实给他带来了一些关于缎袜合身的困难，而当时下巴对此很有用。

‘I think the Honorable Mrs. S. is something like you,’ said Mr. Ned. He kept the book open at the bewitching portrait, and looked at it rather languishingly.
“我认为尊敬的 S. 夫人有点像您，”内德先生说。他打开书​​，看着那幅迷人的肖像，颇为憔悴地看着它。

‘Her back is very large; she seems to have sat for that,’ said Rosamond, not meaning any satire, but thinking how red young Plymdale’s hands were, and wondering why Lydgate did not come. She went on with her tatting all the while.
“她的背很大； “她似乎已经坐下来了，”罗莎蒙德说，没有任何讽刺的意思，而是想着年轻的普利姆代尔的手是多么红，并想知道为什么利德盖特没有来。她一直在继续编织。

‘I did not say she was as beautiful as you are,’ said Mr. Ned, venturing to look from the portrait to its rival.
“我并没有说她和你一样美丽，”内德先生说，冒险从肖像上看向对手。

‘I suspect you of being an adroit flatterer,’ said Rosamond, feeling sure that she should have to reject this young gentleman a second time.
“我怀疑你是一个善于奉承的人，”罗莎蒙德说道，她确信自己必须再次拒绝这位年轻的绅士。

But now Lydgate came in; the book was closed before he reached Rosamond’s corner, and as he took his seat with easy confidence on the other side of her, young Plymdale’s jaw fell like a barometer towards the cheerless side of change. Rosamond enjoyed not only Lydgate’s presence but its effect: she liked to excite jealousy.
但现在利德盖特进来了；在他走到罗莎蒙德的角落之前，书就合上了，当他轻松自信地坐在她的另一边时，年轻的普利姆代尔的下巴像晴雨表一样落到了变化的阴郁的一面。罗莎蒙德不仅喜欢利德盖特的存在，还喜欢它的效果：她喜欢激起嫉妒。

‘What a late comer you are!’ she said, as they shook hands. ‘Mamma had given you up a little while ago. How do you find Fred?’
“你来得太晚了！”他们握手时她说道。 ‘妈妈不久前就放弃了你。你怎么找到弗雷德？

‘As usual; going on well, but slowly. I want him to go away— to Stone Court, for example. But your mamma seems to have some objection.’
'照常;进展顺利，但进展缓慢。我希望他离开——比如去斯通庭院。但你妈妈似乎有些反对。

‘Poor fellow!’ said Rosamond, prettily. ‘You will see Fred so changed,’ she added, turning to the other suitor; ‘we have looked to Mr. Lydgate as our guardian angel during this illness.’
“可怜的家伙！”罗莎蒙德漂亮地说。 “你会看到弗雷德如此改变，”她转向另一个追求者补充道。 “在这场疾病期间，我们将利德盖特先生视为我们的守护天使。”

Mr. Ned smiled nervously, while Lydgate, drawing the ‘Keepsake’ towards him and opening it, gave a short scornful laugh and tossed up his chill, as if in wonderment at human folly.
内德先生紧张地笑了笑，而利德盖特则把“信物”拉向他并打开，轻蔑地笑了一声，驱散了寒意，仿佛对人类的愚蠢感到惊讶。

‘What are you laughing at so profanely?’ said Rosamond, with bland neutrality.
“你笑得这么亵渎什么？”罗莎蒙德语气温和、中立。

‘I wonder which would turn out to be the silliest—the engravings or the writing here,’ said Lydgate, in his most convinced tone, while he turned over the pages quickly, seeming to see all through the book in no time, and showing his large white hands to much advantage, as Rosamond thought. ‘Do look at this bridegroom coming out of church: did you ever see such a ‘sugared invention’—as the Elizabethans used to say? Did any haberdasher ever look so smirking? Yet I will answer for it the story makes him one of the first gentlemen in the land.’
“我想知道哪一个是最愚蠢的——这里的版画还是文字，”利德盖特用他最确信的语气说道，同时他快速地翻动着书页，似乎很快就看完了这本书，并显示出正如罗莎蒙德所想，他那双白皙的大手有很大的优势。 “看看这位从教堂走出来的新郎：你见过这样的‘糖发明’吗——就像伊丽莎白时代人们常说的那样？哪有服饰店的人看上去笑得这么傻？但我会回答这个问题，这个故事使他成为这片土地上最早的绅士之一。

‘You are so severe, I am frightened at you,’ said Rosamond, keeping her amusement duly moderate. Poor young Plymdale had lingered with admiration over this very engraving, and his spirit was stirred.
“你太严厉了，我都被你吓到了。”罗莎蒙德说，脸上的笑意保持在适度的水平。可怜的年轻普林代尔曾对这幅版画流连忘返，精神振奋。

‘There are a great many celebrated people writing in the ‘Keepsake,’ at all events,’ he said, in a tone at once piqued and timid. ‘This is the first time I have heard it called silly.’
“无论如何，有很多名人在‘纪念品’上写过文章，”他说，语气既激怒又胆怯。 “这是我第一次听到有人说这很愚蠢。”

‘I think I shall turn round on you and accuse you of being a Goth,’ said Rosamond, looking at Lydgate with a smile. ‘I suspect you know nothing about Lady Blessington and L. E. L.’ Rosamond herself was not without relish for these writers, but she did not readily commit herself by admiration, and was alive to the slightest hint that anything was not, according to Lydgate, in the very highest taste.
“我想我应该转身指责你是哥特人，”罗莎蒙德微笑着看着利德盖特说道。 “我怀疑你对布莱辛顿夫人和L.E.L.一无所知。”罗莎蒙德本人对这些作家并非没有兴趣，但她并没有轻易地表达出钦佩之情，而且根据利德盖特的说法，她对任何暗示都不存在的迹象都很敏感。非常最高的品味。

‘But Sir Walter Scott—I suppose Mr. Lydgate knows him,’ said young Plymdale, a little cheered by this advantage.
“但是沃尔特·斯科特爵士——我想利德盖特先生认识他，”年轻的普林代尔说道，他对这一优势感到有点高兴。

‘Oh, I read no literature now,’ said Lydgate, shutting the book, and pushing it away. ‘I read so much when I was a lad, that I suppose it will last me all my life. I used to know Scott’s poems by heart.’
“哦，我现在不读任何文学作品了，”利德盖特说着，合上书，把它推到一边。 “当我还是个小伙子的时候，我读了很多书，我想它会陪伴我一生。我曾经背过斯科特的诗。”

‘I should like to know when you left off,’ said Rosamond, ‘because then I might be sure that I knew something which you did not know.’
“我想知道你什么时候停下来的，”罗莎蒙德说，“因为那样我就可以确定我知道一些你不知道的事情了。”

‘Mr. Lydgate would say that was not worth knowing,’ said Mr. Ned, purposely caustic.
'先生。利德盖特会说这不值得知道。”内德先生故意刻薄地说。

‘On the contrary,’ said Lydgate, showing no smart; but smiling with exasperating confidence at Rosamond. ‘It would be worth knowing by the fact that Miss Vincy could tell it me.’
“恰恰相反，”利德盖特说道，看上去并不聪明。但对罗莎蒙德却带着令人恼火的自信微笑。 “文西小姐能告诉我这一点，这一点值得我知道。”

Young Plymdale soon went to look at the whist-playing, thinking that Lydgate was one of the most conceited, unpleasant fellows it had ever been his ill-fortune to meet.
年轻的普利姆代尔很快就去看了惠斯特比赛，他认为利德盖特是他一生中遇到的最自负、最不讨人喜欢的家伙之一。

‘How rash you are!’ said Rosamond, inwardly delighted. ‘Do you see that you have given offence?’
“你真鲁莽！”罗莎蒙德心里高兴地说。 “你看出来你冒犯了吗？”

‘What! is it Mr. Plymdale’s book? I am sorry. I didn’t think about it.’
'什么！这是普利姆代尔先生的书吗？对不起。我没有考虑过。

‘I shall begin to admit what you said of yourself when you first came here—that you are a bear, and want teaching by the birds.’
“我将开始承认你刚来这里时所说的话——你是一只熊，需要鸟儿的教导。”

‘Well, there is a bird who can teach me what she will. Don’t I listen to her willingly?’
“嗯，有一只鸟可以教我她会教的东西。难道我不乐意听她的话吗？

To Rosamond it seemed as if she and Lydgate were as good as engaged. That they were some time to be engaged had long been an idea in her mind; and ideas, we know, tend to a more solid kind of existence, the necessary materials being at hand. It is true, Lydgate had the counter-idea of remaining unengaged; but this was a mere negative, a shadow east by other resolves which themselves were capable of shrinking. Circumstance was almost sure to be on the side of Rosamond’s idea, which had a shaping activity and looked through watchful blue eyes, whereas Lydgate’s lay blind and unconcerned as a jelly-fish which gets melted without knowing it.
对罗莎蒙德来说，她和利德盖特似乎已经订婚了。她心里早就有一个念头：他们要订婚了。我们知道，思想往往会以一种更坚实的方式存在，必要的材料就在手边。确实，利德盖特有保持不参与的反想法。但这仅仅是一种负面影响，是其他决心的阴影，而这些决心本身是能够缩小的。环境几乎肯定会站在罗莎蒙德的想法一边，它具有塑造活动，并通过警惕的蓝眼睛进行观察，而利德盖特的想法则盲目而漠不关心，就像一只在不知不觉中融化的水母。

That evening when he went home, he looked at his phials to see how a process of maceration was going on, with undisturbed interest; and he wrote out his daily notes with as much precision as usual. The reveries from which it was difficult for him to detach himself were ideal constructions of something else than Rosamond’s virtues, and the primitive tissue was still his fair unknown. Moreover, he was beginning to feel some zest for the growing though half-suppressed feud between him and the other medical men, which was likely to become more manifest, now that Bulstrode’s method of managing the new hospital was about to be declared; and there were various inspiriting signs that his non-acceptance by some of Peacock’s patients might be counterbalanced by the impression he had produced in other quarters. Only a few days later, when he had happened to overtake Rosamond on the Lowick road and had got down from his horse to walk by her side until he had quite protected her from a passing drove, he had been stopped by a servant on horseback with a message calling him in to a house of some importance where Peacock had never attended; and it was the second instance of this kind. The servant was Sir James Chettam’s, and the house was Lowick Manor.
那天晚上，当他回家时，他兴致勃勃地看着小瓶，看看浸渍过程是如何进行的。他像平常一样精确地写下了每日笔记。他难以摆脱的遐想是对罗莎蒙德美德以外的东西的理想建构，而原始组织仍然是他相当未知的。此外，他开始对他和其他医务人员之间不断增长的、虽然半压抑的不和感到有些热情，既然布尔斯特罗德管理新医院的方法即将公布，这种不和可能会变得更加明显；有各种鼓舞人心的迹象表明，他在其他方面所产生的印象可能会抵消一些皮科克病人的不接受。仅仅几天后，当他在洛伊克路上碰巧追上罗莎蒙德并下马走在她身边，直到他完全保护她免受过往车辆的伤害时，他被一个骑马的仆人拦住了。一条消息叫他去一所重要的房子，而皮科克从未去过那里；这已经是第二次了。仆人是詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士的，房子是洛威克庄园。

CHAPTER XXVIII
第二十八章

1st Gent. All times are good to seek your wedded home
第一绅士。寻找新居的任何时候都是好时机

Bringing a mutual delight.
带来彼此的喜悦。

2d Gent. Why, true.
2d 绅士。为什么，确实如此。

The calendar hath not an evil day
日历上没有邪恶的一天

For souls made one by love, and even death
为了因爱甚至死亡而合而为一的灵魂

Were sweetness, if it came like rolling waves
如果它像滚滚的波浪一样涌来，那就是甜蜜

While they two clasped each other, and foresaw
当他们两人紧紧拥抱在一起并预见到

No life apart.
没有分开的生活。

Mr. and Mrs. Casaubon, returning from their wedding journey, arrived at Lowick Manor in the middle of January. A light snow was falling as they descended at the door, and in the morning, when Dorothea passed from her dressing-room avenue the blue-green boudoir that we know of, she saw the long avenue of limes lifting their trunks from a white earth, and spreading white branches against the dun and motionless sky. The distant flat shrank in uniform whiteness and low-hanging uniformity of cloud. The very furniture in the room seemed to have shrunk since she saw it before: the slag in the tapestry looked more like a ghost in his ghostly blue-green world; the volumes of polite literature in the bookcase looked morn like immovable imitations of books. The bright fire of dry oak-boughs burning on the dogs seemed an incongruous renewal of life and glow—like the figure of Dorothea herself as she entered carrying the red-leather cases containing the cameos for Celia.
卡苏邦夫妇从婚礼归来，于一月中旬抵达洛威克庄园。他们在门口下着小雪，早上，当多萝西娅从她的更衣室大道经过我们所知的蓝绿色闺房时，她看到长长的椴树大道从白色的土地上抬起了树干。 ，白色的树枝在暗褐色和静止的天空的衬托下展开。远处的平地变得越来越白，低垂的云也变得均匀。房间里的家具似乎比她以前看到的时候都缩小了：挂毯上的渣看起来更像是他幽灵般的蓝绿色世界中的幽灵；书柜里的几卷礼貌文学看起来更像是一动不动的书籍仿制品。狗身上燃烧的干橡树枝的明亮火焰似乎是一种不协调的生命和光芒的更新——就像多萝西娅本人的身影，她带着装有西莉亚浮雕的红色皮箱进来。

She was glowing from her morning toilet as only healthful youth can glow: there was gem-like brightness on her coiled hair and in her hazel eyes; there was warm red life in her lips; her throat had a breathing whiteness above the differing white of the fur which itself seemed to wind about her neck and cling down her blue-gray pelisse with a tenderness gathered from her own, a sentient commingled innocence which kept its loveliness against the crystalline purity of the outdoor snow. As she laid the cameo- cases on the table in the bow-window, she unconsciously kept her hands on them, immediately absorbed in looking out on the still, white enclosure which made her visible world.
她早上上厕所时容光焕发，只有健康的年轻人才能容光焕发：她卷曲的头发和淡褐色的眼睛里闪烁着宝石般的光芒；她的嘴唇里充满了温暖的红色生命；她的喉咙上有一种呼吸般的白色，上面覆盖着不同的白色皮毛，皮毛本身似乎缠绕在她的脖子上，紧紧地贴在她蓝灰色的皮衣上，带着一种从她自己身上收集到的温柔，一种有知觉的混杂的纯真，在水晶般的纯洁中保持着它的可爱。室外的雪。当她把浮雕盒放在弓窗的桌子上时，她的手不自觉地放在它们上，立即全神贯注地看着窗外静止的白色外壳，这使她的世界变得可见。

Mr. Casaubon, who had risen early complaining of palpitation, was in the library giving audience to his curate Mr. Tucker. By-and-by Celia would come in her quality of bridesmaid as well as sister, and through the next weeks there would be wedding visits received and given; all in continuance of that transitional life understood to correspond with the excitement of bridal felicity, and keeping up the sense of busy ineffectiveness, as of a dream which the dreamer begins to suspect. The duties of her married life, contemplated as so great beforehand, seemed to be shrinking with the furniture and the white vapor-walled landscape. The clear heights where she expected to walk in full communion had become difficult to see even in her imagination; the delicious repose of the soul on a complete superior had been shaken into uneasy effort and alarmed with dim presentiment. When would the days begin of that active wifely devotion which was to strengthen her husband’s life and exalt her own? Never perhaps, as she had preconceived them; but somehow— still somehow. In this solemnly pledged union of her life, duty would present itself in some new form of inspiration and give a new meaning to wifely love.
卡苏邦先生起得很早，抱怨心慌，此时他正在图书馆里觐见他的牧师塔克先生。不久之后，西莉亚就会以伴娘和姐妹的身份出现，在接下来的几周里，将会接待和接待婚礼参观者。一切都在过渡生活的延续中，被理解为与新娘幸福的兴奋相对应，并保持忙碌无效率的感觉，就像做梦者开始怀疑的一个梦一样。她之前认为婚姻生活的责任如此重大，但似乎随着家具和白色蒸汽墙的景观而缩小。即使在她的想象中，她原本期望能在完全交流中行走的清晰高度也变得难以看到。灵魂在完全上级身上的美妙休息已被动摇，陷入不安的努力，并因模糊的预感而惊慌。那种积极的妻子奉献的日子什么时候才能开始，这种奉献是为了加强她丈夫的生活并提高她自己的生活？也许永远不会，因为她已经先入为主了；但不知何故——还是不知何故。在她庄严宣誓的一生结合中，责任将以某种新的灵感形式呈现出来，并赋予妻子之爱新的含义。

Meanwhile there was the snow and the low arch of dun vapor— there was the stifling oppression of that gentlewoman’s world, where everything was done for her and none asked for her aid— where the sense of connection with a manifold pregnant existence had to be kept up painfully as an inward vision, instead of coming from without in claims that would have shaped her energies.— ‘What shall I do?’ ‘Whatever you please, my dear: ‘that had been her brief history since she had left off learning morning lessons and practising silly rhythms on the hated piano. Marriage, which was to bring guidance into worthy and imperative occupation, had not yet freed her from the gentlewoman’s oppressive liberty: it had not even filled her leisure with the ruminant joy of unchecked tenderness. Her blooming full-pulsed youth stood there in a moral imprisonment which made itself one with the chill, colorless, narrowed landscape, with the shrunken furniture, the never-read books, and the ghostly stag in a pale fantastic world that seemed to be vanishing from the daylight.
与此同时，有雪和低矮的暗褐色蒸汽拱门——有那位淑女的世界令人窒息的压迫，那里的一切都是为她做的，没有人向她寻求帮助——那里必须保持与多重怀孕存在的联系感。痛苦地作为一种内在的愿景，而不是来自外部的主张来塑造她的能量。——“我该怎么办？”“随你便，亲爱的：“自从她停止学习以来，这就是她的简短历史早上上课，在讨厌的钢琴上练习愚蠢的节奏。婚姻本应引导她从事有价值和必要的职业，但它还没有将她从淑女的压迫性自由中解放出来：它甚至还没有让她在闲暇时充满不受限制的温柔的沉思快乐。她那盛开的、充满活力的青春站在道德的禁锢中，与寒冷、无色、狭窄的风景、缩小的家具、从未读过的书籍以及幽灵般的雄鹿融为一体，置身于一个似乎正在消失的苍白幻想世界中。从白天开始。

In the first minutes when Dorothea looked out she felt nothing but the dreary oppression; then came a keen remembrance, and turning away from the window she walked round the room. The ideas and hopes which were living in her mind when she first saw this room nearly three months before were present now only as memories: she judged them as we judge transient and departed things. All existence seemed to beat with a lower pulse than her own, and her religious faith was a solitary cry, the struggle out of a nightmare in which every object was withering and shrinking away from her. Each remembered thing in the room was disenchanted, was deadened as an unlit transparency, till her wandering gaze came to the group of miniatures, and there at last she saw something which had gathered new breath and meaning: it was the miniature of Mr. Casaubon’s aunt Julia, who had made the unfortunate marriage— of Will Ladislaw’s grandmother. Dorothea could fancy that it was alive now—the delicate woman’s face which yet had a headstrong look, a peculiarity difficult to interpret. Was it only her friends who thought her marriage unfortunate? or did she herself find it out to be a mistake, and taste the salt bitterness of her tears in the merciful silence of the night? What breadths of experience Dorothea seemed to have passed over since she first looked at this miniature! She felt a new companionship with it, as if it had an ear for her and could see how she was looking at it. Here was a woman who had known some difficulty about marriage. Nay, the colors deepened, the lips and chin seemed to get larger, the hair and eyes seemed to be sending out light, the face was masculine and beamed on her with that full gaze which tells her on whom it falls that she is too interesting for the slightest movement of her eyelid to pass unnoticed and uninterpreted. The vivid presentation came like a pleasant glow to Dorothea: she felt herself smiling, and turning from the miniature sat down and looked up as if she were again talking to a figure in front of her. But the smile disappeared as she went on meditating, and at last she said aloud—
在多萝西娅向外张望的最初几分钟里，她除了感到沉闷的压抑之外什么也没有感觉到。然后，她强烈地想起了这一点，于是她转身离开窗户，在房间里走来走去。大约三个月前，当她第一次看到这个房间时，她脑海中的想法和希望现在只作为记忆出现：她判断它们就像我们判断短暂和逝去的事物一样。所有的存在似乎都比她的脉搏低，她的宗教信仰是一种孤独的呼喊，是从噩梦中挣扎出来的，在噩梦中，一切物体都在枯萎，从她身边退缩。房间里的每件记忆中的东西都不再抱有幻想，像未点亮的透明物体一样变得迟钝，直到她游移的目光落在那群微缩模型上，最后她看到了一些东西，它聚集了新的气息和意义：这是卡苏邦先生的微缩模型。朱莉娅姨妈，她与威尔·拉迪斯拉夫的祖母缔结了不幸的婚姻。多萝西娅可以想象它现在还活着——那张精致的女人的脸，却带着一种任性的表情，一种难以解释的奇特之处。难道只有她的朋友认为她的婚姻不幸吗？还是她自己发现这是一个错误，并在仁慈的寂静的夜里尝到了泪水的咸涩苦涩？自从多萝西娅第一次看到这个微型模型以来，她似乎已经失去了多么丰富的经验啊！她感觉到它有了一种新的陪伴，就好像它有一只耳朵在听她，并且能看到她在看它。这是一位深知婚姻中有些困难的女人。 不仅如此，颜色加深了，嘴唇和下巴似乎变大了，头发和眼睛似乎在散发光芒，脸庞充满男性气息，目光饱满地注视着她，告诉她，她太有趣了。她的眼睑最轻微的动作都不会被注意到和解释。生动的呈现给多萝西娅带来了愉快的光芒：她感到自己在微笑，从微型模型中转过身坐下来，抬起头来，仿佛她又在与面前的一个人说话。 但随着她继续冥想，笑容消失了，最后她大声说道：

‘Oh, it was cruel to speak so! How sad—how dreadful!’
「啊啊，这么说真是太残忍了！」多么悲伤——多么可怕！

She rose quickly and went out of the room, hurrying along the corridor, with the irresistible impulse to go and see her husband and inquire if she could do anything for him. Perhaps Mr. Tucker was gone and Mr. Casaubon was alone in the library. She felt as if all her morning’s gloom would vanish if she could see her husband glad because of her presence.
她迅速起身，出了房间，沿着走廊快步走去，心里有一种无法抗拒的冲动，想去看看她的丈夫，问问她是否能为他做点什么。也许塔克先生已经走了，卡苏邦先生独自一人在图书馆里。她觉得如果她能看到她的丈夫因为她的存在而高兴，那么整个早上的阴郁都会消失。

But when she reached the head of the dark oak there was Celia coming up, and below there was Mr. Brooke, exchanging welcomes and congratulations with Mr. Casaubon.
但当她到达深色橡树的顶端时，西莉亚迎面而来，下面是布鲁克先生，正在与卡苏邦先生互相欢迎和祝贺。

‘Dodo!’ said Celia, in her quiet staccato; then kissed her sister, whose arms encircled her, and said no more. I think they both cried a little in a furtive manner, while Dorothea ran down-stairs to greet her uncle.
“渡渡鸟！”西莉亚轻声断断续续地说。然后吻了吻她的妹妹，她的手臂搂住了她，没有再说什么。我想他们都偷偷地哭了一会儿，而多萝西娅跑下楼去迎接她的叔叔。

‘I need not ask how you are, my dear,’ said Mr. Brooke, after kissing her forehead. ‘Rome has agreed with you, I see—happiness, frescos, the antique—that sort of thing. Well, it’s very pleasant to have you back again, and you understand all about art now, eh? But Casaubon is a little pale, I tell him—a little pale, you know. Studying hard in his holidays is carrying it rather too far. I overdid it at one time’—Mr. Brooke still held Dorothea’s hand, but had turned his face to Mr. Casaubon—‘about topography, ruins, temples—I thought I had a clew, but I saw it would carry me too far, and nothing might come of it. You may go any length in that sort of thing, and nothing may come of it, you know.’
“我不需要问你怎么样，亲爱的，”布鲁克先生亲吻了她的额头后说道。 “我明白了，罗马同意你的观点——幸福、壁画、古董——诸如此类的东西。嗯，很高兴您再次回来，您现在已经了解了所有关于艺术的知识，是吗？但卡苏邦的脸色有点苍白，我告诉他——有点苍白，你知道。他在假期里努力学习有点太过分了。我有一次做得太过分了’——先生。布鲁克仍然握着多萝西娅的手，但把脸转向卡苏邦先生——“关于地形、废墟、寺庙——我以为我有线索，但我发现它会把我带得太远，而且可能不会有任何结果。”你可以在这类事情上做任何努力，但可能不会有任何结果，你知道。

Dorothea’s eyes also were turned up to her husband’s face with some anxiety at the idea that those who saw him afresh after absence might be aware of signs which she had not noticed.
多萝西娅的眼睛也转向她丈夫的脸，有些焦虑，因为想到那些在离开后再次见到他的人可能会注意到她没有注意到的迹象。

‘Nothing to alarm you, my dear,’ said Mr. Brooke, observing her expression. ‘A little English beef and mutton will soon make a difference. It was all very well to look pale, sitting for the portrait of Aquinas, you know—we got your letter just in time. But Aquinas, now—he was a little too subtle, wasn’t he? Does anybody read Aquinas?’
“没什么让你惊慌的，亲爱的，”布鲁克先生观察着她的表情说道。 “一点英国牛肉和羊肉很快就会有所不同。坐在阿奎那的肖像前，脸色苍白，这一切都很好，你知道——我们及时收到了你的信。但阿奎那现在——他有点太狡猾了，不是吗？有人读过阿奎那吗？

‘He is not indeed an author adapted to superficial minds,’ said Mr. Casaubon, meeting these timely questions with dignified patience.
“他确实不是一个适应肤浅思想的作家，”卡苏邦先生说道，他以庄重的耐心回答了这些及时的问题。

‘You would like coffee in your own room, uncle?’ said Dorothea, coming to the rescue.
“叔叔，您想在自己的房间里喝咖啡吗？”多萝西娅赶忙说道。

‘Yes; and you must go to Celia: she has great news to tell you, you know. I leave it all to her.’
'是的;你必须去找西莉亚：你知道，她有好消息要告诉你。我把这一切都交给她了。

The blue-green boudoir looked much more cheerful when Celia was seated there in a pelisse exactly like her sister’s, surveying the cameos with a placid satisfaction, while the conversation passed on to other topics.
当西莉亚穿着和她姐姐一模一样的短裙坐在那儿时，蓝绿色的闺房看起来要高兴得多，她平静而满意地打量着客串，而谈话则转到了其他话题。

‘Do you think it nice to go to Rome on a wedding journey?’ said Celia, with her ready delicate blush which Dorothea was used to on the smallest occasions.
“你觉得去罗马参加婚礼旅行好吗？”西莉亚说道，她的脸红得像多萝西娅在最小的场合所习惯的那样。

‘It would not suit all—not you, dear, for example,’ said Dorothea, quietly. No one would ever know what she thought of a wedding journey to Rome.
“这并不适合所有人——比如你，亲爱的，”多萝西娅平静地说。没有人知道她对罗马婚礼之旅有何看法。

‘Mrs. Cadwallader says it is nonsense, people going a long journey when they are married. She says they get tired to death of each other, and can’t quarrel comfortably, as they would at home. And Lady Chettam says she went to Bath.’ Celia’s color changed again and again—seemed
'太太。卡德沃拉德说这是无稽之谈，人们结婚后就会长途旅行。她说他们彼此都厌倦了，无法像在家里那样轻松地吵架。切塔姆女士说她去了巴斯。”西莉亚的脸色一次又一次地变化——似乎

To come and go with tidings from the heart, As it a running messenger had been.
带着内心的消息来去，就像一个奔跑的信使一样。

It must mean more than Celia’s blushing usually did.
这一定比西莉亚平常的脸红更有意义。

‘Celia! has something happened?’ said Dorothea, in a tone full of sisterly feeling. ‘Have you really any great news to tell me?’
‘西莉亚！ “发生什么事了吗？”多萝西娅的语气充满了姐妹情谊。 “你真的有什么好消息要告诉我吗？”

‘It was because you went away, Dodo. Then there was nobody but me for Sir James to talk to,’ said Celia, with a certain roguishness in her eyes.
“那是因为你走了，多多。然后，除了我之外，就没有人可以和詹姆斯爵士交谈了。”西莉亚说道，眼中带着一丝狡黠。

‘I understand. It is as I used to hope and believe,’ said Dorothea, taking her sister’s face between her hands, and looking at her half anxiously. Celia’s marriage seemed more serious than it used to do.
'我明白。正如我以前所希望和相信的那样，”多萝西娅说道，双手捧着姐姐的脸，半焦急地看着她。西莉亚的婚姻似乎比以前更加严肃了。

‘It was only three days ago,’ said Celia. ‘And Lady Chettam is very kind.’
“这只是三天前的事，”西莉亚说。 “切塔姆女士非常友善。”

‘And you are very happy?’
“你很高兴吗？”

‘Yes. We are not going to be married yet. Because every thing is to be got ready. And I don’t want to be married so very soon, because I think it is nice to be engaged. And we shall be married all our lives after.’
'是的。我们还没有打算结婚。因为凡事都要准备好。我不想这么快结婚，因为我觉得订婚很好。从此我们将终生结婚。”

‘I do believe you could not marry better, Kitty. Sir James is a good, honorable man,’ said Dorothea, warmly.
“我确实相信你不能嫁得更好，基蒂。詹姆斯爵士是一个善良、值得尊敬的人。”多萝西娅热情地说。

‘He has gone on with the cottages, Dodo. He will tell you about them when he comes. Shall you be glad to see him?’
“他已经继续去小屋了，渡渡鸟。当他来的时候，他会告诉你关于他们的事情。你见到他会很高兴吗？

‘Of course I shall. How can you ask me?’
“我当然会的。你怎么能问我？

‘Only I was afraid you would be getting so learned,’ said Celia, regarding Mr. Casaubon’s learning as a kind of damp which might in due time saturate a neighboring body.
“只是我担心你会变得如此有学问，”西莉亚说，她把卡苏邦先生的学识视为一种湿气，可能会在适当的时候浸透邻近的身体。

CHAPTER XXIX
第二十九章

‘I found that no genius in another could please me. My unfortunate paradoxes had entirely dried up that source of comfort.’—GOLDSMITH.
“我发现任何天才都无法令我满意。我不幸的悖论已经完全耗尽了这种安慰的源泉。”——戈德史密斯。

One morning, some weeks after her arrival at Lowick, Dorothea— but why always Dorothea? Was her point of view the only possible one with regard to this marriage? protest against all our interest, all our effort at understanding being given to the young skins that look blooming in spite of trouble; for these too will get faded, and will know the older and more eating griefs which we are helping to neglect. In spite of the blinking eyes and white moles objectionable to Celia, and the want of muscular curve which was morally painful to Sir James, Mr. Casaubon had an intense consciousness within him, and was spiritually a-hungered like the rest of us. He had done nothing exceptional in marrying—nothing but what society sanctions, and considers an occasion for wreaths and bouquets. It had occurred to him that he must not any longer defer his intention of matrimony, and he had reflected that in taking a wife, a man of good position should expect and carefully choose a blooming young lady—the younger the better, because more educable and submissive—of a rank equal to his own, of religious principles, virtuous disposition, and good understanding. On such a young lady he would make handsome settlements, and he would neglect no arrangement for her happiness: in return, he should receive family pleasures and leave behind him that copy of himself which seemed so urgently required of a man— to the sonneteers of the sixteenth century. Times had altered since then, and no sonneteer had insisted on Mr. Casaubon’s leaving a copy of himself; moreover, he had not yet succeeded in issuing copies of his mythological key; but he had always intended to acquit himself by marriage, and the sense that he was fast leaving the years behind him, that the world was getting dimmer and that he felt lonely, was a reason to him for losing no more time in overtaking domestic delights before they too were left behind by the years.
一天早上，多萝西娅到达洛威克几周后——但为什么总是多萝西娅呢？对于这桩婚姻，她的观点是唯一可能的吗？抗议我们所有的兴趣，我们所有的理解努力都被赋予了尽管遇到麻烦但看起来绽放的年轻皮肤；因为这些也会褪色，并且会知道我们正在帮助忽视的更古老、更多的悲伤。尽管西莉亚讨厌眨眼的眼睛和白痣，而且詹姆斯爵士在道义上痛苦地缺乏肌肉曲线，但卡苏邦先生内心有强烈的意识，并且像我们其他人一样在精神上感到饥饿。他在结婚方面并没有做什么特别的事情——只不过是社会所认可的，并认为这是一个送花圈和花束的场合。他突然想到，自己的结婚之意不能再拖延了，他反思道，有地位的男人娶妻时，应该期待并慎重选择一个正值青春年华的姑娘——越年轻越好，因为更有教养。和顺从——与他同等的地位、宗教原则、道德品质和良好的理解力。他会对这样一位年轻的女士做出丰厚的安排，他不会忽视为她的幸福做出任何安排：作为回报，他应该获得家庭的欢乐，并留下他自己的副本，这似乎是一个男人迫切需要的——给十四行诗的十四行诗作者。十六世纪。从那时起，时代已经发生了变化，没有任何十四行诗作者坚持要先生。 卡索邦留下了自己的副本；而且，他还没有成功发行他的神话钥匙的副本；但他一直想通过婚姻来证明自己，而他感觉自己很快就把岁月抛在脑后，世界变得黯淡，他感到孤独，这就是他不再浪费时间超越家庭欢乐的原因。在他们也被岁月抛在身后之前。

And when he had seen Dorothea he believed that he had found even more than he demanded: she might really be such a helpmate to him as would enable him to dispense with a hired secretary, an aid which Mr. Casaubon had never yet employed and had a suspicious dread of. (Mr. Casaubon was nervously conscious that he was expected to manifest a powerful mind.) Providence, in its kindness, had supplied him with the wife he needed. A wife, a modest young lady, with the purely appreciative, unambitious abilities of her sex, is sure to think her husband’s mind powerful. Whether Providence had taken equal care of Miss Brooke in presenting her with Mr. Casaubon was an idea which could hardly occur to him. Society never made the preposterous demand that a man should think as much about his own qualifications for making a charming girl happy as he thinks of hers for making himself happy. As if a man could choose not only his wife hut his wife’s husband! Or as if he were bound to provide charms for his posterity in his own person!— When Dorothea accepted him with effusion, that was only natural; and Mr. Casaubon believed that his happiness was going to begin.
当他见到多萝西娅时，他相信自己发现的甚至比他所要求的还要多：她可能真的是他的帮手，使他能够省去聘请秘书的麻烦，而卡苏邦先生从未雇用过这种帮助，而且已经有了秘书。一种可疑的恐惧。 （卡苏邦先生紧张地意识到，他应该表现出强大的头脑。） 上帝仁慈地为他提供了他所需要的妻子。一位妻子，一位谦虚的年轻女士，具有女性的纯粹欣赏能力，没有野心，肯定会认为她丈夫的思想很强大。他几乎不可能想到，普罗维登斯在把卡苏朋先生介绍给布鲁克小姐时是否也同样照顾了她。社会从来没有提出过荒谬的要求，要求男人应该像考虑她使自己快乐的资格一样，考虑自己使迷人女孩快乐的资格。好像一个男人不仅可以选择自己的妻子，还可以选择妻子的丈夫！或者说，他一定会以自己的方式为子孙后代带来魅力！——当多萝西娅热情洋溢地接受他时，这是很自然的；但当多萝西娅欣喜若狂地接受他时，这是很自然的。卡苏邦先生相信他的幸福即将开始。

He had not had much foretaste of happiness in his previous life. To know intense joy without a strong bodily frame, one must have an enthusiastic soul. Mr. Casaubon had never had a strong bodily frame, and his soul was sensitive without being enthusiastic: it was too languid to thrill out of self-consciousness into passionate delight; it went on fluttering in the swampy ground where it was hatched, thinking of its wings and never flying. His experience was of that pitiable kind which shrinks from pity, and fears most of all that it should be known: it was that proud narrow sensitiveness which has not mass enough to spare for transformation into sympathy, and quivers thread-like in small currents of self-preoccupation or at best of an egoistic scrupulosity. And Mr. Casaubon had many scruples: he was capable of a severe self-restraint; he was resolute in being a man of honor according to the code; he would be unimpeachable by any recognized opinion. In conduct these ends had been attained; but the difficulty of making his Key to all Mythologies unimpeachable weighed like lead upon his mind; and the pamphlets—or ‘Parerga’ as he called them—by which he tested his public and deposited small monumental records of his march, were far from having been seen in all their significance. He suspected the Archdeacon of not having read them; he was in painful doubt as to what was really thought of them by the leading minds of Brasenose, and bitterly convinced that his old acquaintance Carp had been the writer of that depreciatory recension which was kept locked in a small drawer of Mr. Casaubon’s desk, and also in a dark closet of his verbal memory. These were heavy impressions to struggle against, and brought that melancholy embitterment which is the consequence of all excessive claim: even his religious faith wavered with his wavering trust in his own authorship, and the consolations of the Christian hope in immortality seemed to lean on the immortality of the still unwritten Key to all Mythologies. For my part I am very sorry for him. It is an uneasy lot at best, to be what we call highly taught and yet not to enjoy: to be present at this great spectacle of life and never to be liberated from a small hungry shivering self— never to be fully possessed by the glory we behold, never to have our consciousness rapturously transformed into the vividness of a thought, the ardor of a passion, the energy of an action, but always to be scholarly and uninspired, ambitious and timid, scrupulous and dim-sighted. Becoming a dean or even a bishop would make little difference, I fear, to Mr. Casaubon’s uneasiness. Doubtless some ancient Greek has observed that behind the big mask and the speaking-trumpet, there must always be our poor little eyes peeping as usual and our timorous lips more or less under anxious control.
前世他并没有多少预尝到幸福的滋味。想要在没有强健的身体的情况下体验强烈的快乐，一个人必须有一颗热情的灵魂。卡苏邦先生从来没有强壮的体格，他的灵魂敏感而不热情：太懒惰了，无法从自我意识中激动到热情的喜悦；它继续在孵化它的沼泽地上扑腾，想着它的翅膀，却从未飞翔。他的经历是那种可怜的经历，他回避怜悯，最害怕的是它应该被人知道：这是一种骄傲的狭隘的敏感，它没有足够的质量来转化为同情，并在细小的电流中颤动。以自我为中心，或者充其量是一种利己主义的谨慎。卡苏邦先生有很多顾忌：他有严格的自我克制能力；他决心按照准则做一个有荣誉感的人；任何公认的观点都无法对他进行弹劾。在行动上，这些目的已经达到了。但要让他的《神话之钥》无可挑剔，难度却像铅一样沉重地压在他的心头。他用小册子（他称之为“帕雷加”）来测试他的公众，并保存了他的行军的小型纪念记录，但其意义还远没有被人们认识到。他怀疑副主教没有读过它们。他痛苦地怀疑布雷齐诺斯的主要人物对他们的真实想法，并痛苦地确信他的老熟人卡普是那本贬低性修订本的作者，该修订本被锁在卡苏邦先生办公桌的一个小抽屉里，以及他言语记忆的黑暗密室。 这些都是需要与之抗争的沉重印象，并带来了忧郁的痛苦，这是所有过度主张的结果：甚至他的宗教信仰也随着他对自己作者身份的动摇信任而动摇，基督教对永生的希望的安慰似乎依赖于尚未成文的所有神话之钥匙的不朽。就我而言，我为他感到非常抱歉。成为我们所说的受过良好教育却无法享受的人，充其量是一件令人不安的事：目睹生命的这一伟大景象，却永远无法从饥饿、颤抖的小自我中解放出来——永远无法完全被荣耀所占据。我们看到，我们的意识永远不会欣喜若狂地转变为思想的生动性、激情的热情、行动的活力，而总是学者般的、平庸的、雄心勃勃的、胆怯的、谨慎的和目光短浅的。我担心，成为院长甚至主教对卡苏邦先生的不安来说影响不大。毫无疑问，一些古希腊人已经观察到，在大面具和喇叭后面，一定总是有我们可怜的小眼睛像往常一样偷看，我们胆怯的嘴唇或多或少地受到焦虑的控制。

To this mental estate mapped out a quarter of a century before, to sensibilities thus fenced in, Mr. Casaubon had thought of annexing happiness with a lovely young bride; but even before marriage, as we have seen, he found himself under a new depression in the consciousness that the new bliss was not blissful to him. Inclination yearned back to its old, easier custom. And the deeper he went in domesticity the more did the sense of acquitting himself and acting with propriety predominate over any other satisfaction. Marriage, like religion and erudition, nay, like authorship itself, was fated to become an outward requirement, and Edward Casaubon was bent on fulfilling unimpeachably all requirements. Even drawing Dorothea into use in his study, according to his own intention before marriage, was an effort which he was always tempted to defer, and but for her pleading insistence it might never have begun. But she had succeeded in making it a matter of course that she should take her place at an early hour in the library and have work either of reading aloud or copying assigned her. The work had been easier to define because Mr. Casaubon had adopted an immediate intention: there was to be a new Parergon, a small monograph on some lately traced indications concerning the Egyptian mysteries whereby certain assertions of Warburton’s could be corrected. References were extensive even here, but not altogether shoreless; and sentences were actually to be written in the shape wherein they would be scanned by Brasenose and a less formidable posterity. These minor monumental productions were always exciting to Mr. Casaubon; digestion was made difficult by the interference of citations, or by the rivalry of dialectical phrases ringing against each other in his brain. And from the first there was to be a Latin dedication about which everything was uncertain except that it was not to be addressed to Carp: it was a poisonous regret to Mr. Casaubon that he had once addressed a dedication to Carp in which he had numbered that member of the animal kingdom among the viros nullo aevo perituros, a mistake which would infallibly lay the dedicator open to ridicule in the next age, and might even be chuckled over by Pike and Tench in the present.
对于四分之一个世纪前规划出来的这种精神状态，对于这样被围起来的情感，卡苏邦先生曾想过将幸福与一位可爱的年轻新娘并存；但他的想法却是这样的。但正如我们所见，即使在结婚之前，他也发现自己陷入了新的抑郁之中，因为他意识到新的幸福对他来说并不幸福。人们渴望回到原来的、更轻松的习惯。他在家庭生活中走得越深，就越能感受到无罪释放和举止得体的感觉超过任何其他满足感。婚姻，就像宗教和博学，不，就像作者身份本身一样，注定要成为一种外在的要求，而爱德华·卡苏邦决心无可挑剔地满足所有要求。甚至根据他婚前的意愿，将多萝西娅引入他的书房，他总是想推迟，但如果不是她的恳求坚持，这件事可能永远不会开始。但她成功地让自己很早就到图书馆就座，并分配给她朗读或抄写的工作。这项工作更容易定义，因为卡苏邦先生立即采取了一个意图：要出版一本新的《帕雷贡》，一本关于最近追踪到的有关埃及之谜的一些迹象的小专着，沃伯顿的某些断言可以通过它来纠正。即使在这里，参考文献也很广泛，但并非完全无边无际。句子实际上是按照布雷齐诺斯和不那么令人敬畏的后代扫描的形状来写的。这些小型的纪念性作品总是令卡苏邦先生兴奋不已。由于引文的干扰，或者辩证短语在他大脑中相互竞争，消化变得困难。 从一开始就有一篇拉丁文的献词，一切都不确定，除了它不是写给卡普的：卡苏邦先生曾经写过一篇献给卡普的献词，他在其中编号，这是一个有毒的遗憾。动物王国中的 viros nullo aevo perituros 的成员，这个错误无疑会让奉献者在下一个时代受到嘲笑，甚至可能会被现在的派克和坦奇嘲笑。

Thus Mr. Casaubon was in one of his busiest epochs, and as I began to say a little while ago, Dorothea joined him early in the library where he had breakfasted alone. Celia at this time was on a second visit to Lowick, probably the last before her marriage, and was in the drawing-room expecting Sir James.
因此，卡苏邦先生正处于他最忙碌的时期之一，正如我不久前开始说的，多萝西娅很早就到图书馆加入了他，他在那里独自吃早餐。西莉亚此时正在第二次拜访洛威克，这可能是她结婚前的最后一次，她正在客厅里等待詹姆斯爵士。

Dorothea had learned to read the signs of her husband’s mood, and she saw that the morning had become more foggy there during the last hour. She was going silently to her desk when he said, in that distant tone which implied that he was discharging a disagreeable duty—
多萝西娅学会了解读丈夫情绪的迹象，她发现在过去的一个小时里，早晨的雾气变得更加浓重。当他默默地走向办公桌时，她用那种疏远的语气说，这暗示着他正在履行一项令人不快的职责——

‘Dorothea, here is a letter for you, which was enclosed in one addressed to me.’
“多萝西娅，这是给你的一封信，附在一封写给我的信中。”

It was a letter of two pages, and she immediately looked at the signature.
这是一封两页纸的信，她立刻看向了签名。

‘Mr. Ladislaw! What can he have to say to me?’ she exclaimed, in a tone of pleased surprise. ‘But,’ she added, looking at Mr. Casaubon, ‘I can imagine what he has written to you about.’
'先生。拉迪斯拉夫！他能对我说什么？”她用一种高兴而惊讶的语气喊道。 “但是，”她看着卡苏邦先生补充道，“我可以想象他给你写的信是关于什么的。”

‘You can, if you please, read the letter,’ said Mr. Casaubon, severely pointing to it with his pen, and not looking at her. ‘But I may as well say beforehand, that I must decline the proposal it contains to pay a visit here. I trust I may be excused for desiring an interval of complete freedom from such distractions as have been hitherto inevitable, and especially from guests whose desultory vivacity makes their presence a fatigue.’
“如果你愿意的话，你可以读一下这封信。”卡苏邦先生说，他用笔严肃地指着信，没有看她。 “但我不妨事先说一下，我必须拒绝其中包含的访问这里的提议。我相信我可能会原谅自己想要一段完全自由的时间，远离迄今为止不可避免的干扰，尤其是那些断断续续的活力使他们的存在令人疲劳的客人。

There had been no clashing of temper between Dorothea and her husband since that little explosion in Rome, which had left such strong traces in her mind that it had been easier ever since to quell emotion than to incur the consequence of venting it. But this ill-tempered anticipation that she could desire visits which might be disagreeable to her husband, this gratuitous defence of himself against selfish complaint on her part, was too sharp a sting to be meditated on until after it had been resented. Dorothea had thought that she could have been patient with John Milton, but she had never imagined him behaving in this way; and for a moment Mr. Casaubon seemed to be stupidly undiscerning and odiously unjust. Pity, that ‘new-born babe’ which was by-and-by to rule many a storm within her, did not ‘stride the blast’ on this occasion. With her first words, uttered in a tone that shook him, she startled Mr. Casaubon into looking at her, and meeting the flash of her eyes.
自从罗马那场小爆炸以来，多萝西娅和她丈夫之间就没有发生过脾气冲突，这件事在她的脑海中留下了如此强烈的痕迹，从那时起，平息情绪比发泄情绪更容易。但这种脾气暴躁的预期，她可能会渴望拜访，而这可能会让她的丈夫感到不愉快，这种无端地为自己辩护，反对她自私的抱怨，这是一种过于尖锐的刺痛，直到被怨恨之后才值得深思熟虑。多萝西娅原以为她可以对约翰·弥尔顿有耐心，但她从未想象过他会这样做；有一瞬间，卡苏邦先生显得愚蠢而缺乏洞察力，而且极其不公正。可惜，那个曾经在她内心掀起许多风暴​​的“新生婴儿”，这次却没有“跨越风浪”。她说出的第一句话，语气让卡苏邦先生震惊，卡苏邦先生吃惊地看着她，并与她眼中闪烁的光芒相遇。

‘Why do you attribute to me a wish for anything that would annoy you? You speak to me as if I were something you had to contend against. Wait at least till I appear to consult my own pleasure apart from yours.’
‘为什么你要把让你烦恼的事情归咎于我？你对我说话，就好像我是你必须对抗的东西一样。至少等我考虑一下我自己的快乐而不是你的快乐。

‘Dorothea, you are hasty,’ answered Mr. Casaubon, nervously.
“多萝西娅，你太急了，”卡苏邦先生紧张地回答。

Decidedly, this woman was too young to be on the formidable level of wifehood—unless she had been pale and feature less and taken everything for granted.
毫无疑问，这个女人还太年轻，不足以成为令人敬畏的妻子——除非她脸色苍白，五官少，认为一切都是理所当然的。

‘I think it was you who were first hasty in your false suppositions about my feeling,’ said Dorothea, in the same tone. The fire was not dissipated yet, and she thought it was ignoble in her husband not to apologize to her.
“我认为是你首先仓促地对我的感受做出了错误的假设，”多萝西娅用同样的语气说道。火还没有消散，她觉得丈夫不向她道歉是不光彩的。

‘We will, if you please, say no more on this subject, Dorothea. I have neither leisure nor energy for this kind of debate.’
“如果您愿意的话，我们将不再谈论这个话题，多萝西娅。我既没有闲暇也没有精力进行这种辩论。

Here Mr. Casaubon dipped his pen and made as if he would return to his writing, though his hand trembled so much that the words seemed to be written in an unknown character. There are answers which, in turning away wrath, only send it to the other end of the room, and to have a discussion coolly waived when you feel that justice is all on your own side is even more exasperating in marriage than in philosophy.
说到这里，卡苏邦先生蘸了蘸笔，做出一副要继续写字的样子，尽管他的手颤抖得厉害，以至于这些字似乎是用一个不知名的字符写的。有些答案，在平息愤怒时，只会把它送到房间的另一端，当你觉得正义都在你自己一边时，冷静地放弃讨论，在婚姻中比在哲学中更令人恼火。

Dorothea left Ladislaw’s two letters unread on her husband’s writing-table and went to her own place, the scorn and indignation within her rejecting the reading of these letters, just as we hurl away any trash towards which we seem to have been suspected of mean cupidity. She did not in the least divine the subtle sources of her husband’s bad temper about these letters: she only knew that they had caused him to offend her. She began to work at once, and her hand did not tremble; on the contrary, in writing out the quotations which had been given to her the day before, she felt that she was forming her letters beautifully, and it seemed to her that she saw the construction of the Latin she was copying, and which she was beginning to understand, more clearly than usual. In her indignation there was a sense of superiority, but it went out for the present in firmness of stroke, and did not compress itself into an inward articulate voice pronouncing the once ‘affable archangel’ a poor creature.
多萝西娅把拉迪斯瓦夫的两封信留在她丈夫的写字台上，没有读完，就回到了自己的地方，她内心的轻蔑和愤慨拒绝阅读这些信件，就像我们扔掉任何似乎被怀疑贪婪的垃圾一样。她丝毫没有猜出她丈夫对这些信发脾气的微妙根源：她只知道这些信让他冒犯了她。她立即​​开始工作，手没有颤抖。相反，在写出前一天给她的引文时，她觉得自己的字母写得很漂亮，在她看来，她似乎看到了她正在抄写的拉丁文的结构，而她正在抄写拉丁文。开始理解，比平常更清楚。她的愤怒中有一种优越感，但它暂时以坚定的笔触消失了，并没有压缩成一种内心清晰的声音，宣布曾经的“和蔼可亲的大天使”是一个可怜的生物。

There had been this apparent quiet for half an hour, and Dorothea had not looked away from her own table, when she heard the loud bang of a book on the floor, and turning quickly saw Mr. Casaubon on the library steps clinging forward as if he were in some bodily distress. She started up and bounded towards him in an instant: he was evidently in great straits for breath. Jumping on a stool she got close to his elbow and said with her whole soul melted into tender alarm—
这种表面上的安静已经持续了半个小时，多萝西娅一直没有把目光从自己的桌子上移开，这时她听到一本书落在地板上的巨响，她迅速转身看到图书馆台阶上的卡苏邦先生紧贴着前方，仿佛他身体有些不适。她立刻跳了起来，向他扑来：他显然呼吸困难。她跳上凳子，靠近他的肘部，整个灵魂都融化在温柔的惊恐中说道：

‘Can you lean on me, dear?’
“亲爱的，你可以依靠我吗？”

He was still for two or three minutes, which seemed endless to her, unable to speak or move, gasping for breath. When at last he descended the three steps and fell backward in the large chair which Dorothea had drawn close to the foot of the ladder, he no longer gasped but seemed helpless and about to faint. Dorothea rang the bell violently, and presently Mr. Casaubon was helped to the couch: he did not faint, and was gradually reviving, when Sir James Chettam came in, having been met in the hall with the news that Mr. Casaubon had ‘had a fit in the library.’
他一动不动地呆了两三分钟，对她来说似乎没完没了，无法说话，无法动弹，气喘吁吁。最后，当他走下三级台阶，向后倒在多萝西娅拉到梯脚附近的大椅子上时，他不再喘气，而是显得无助，快要晕倒了。多萝西娅猛烈地按响了门铃，不久卡苏邦先生就被扶到了沙发上：他没有晕倒，而且正在逐渐苏醒，这时詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士进来了，他在大厅里接到了卡苏邦先生“已经死了”的消息。在图书馆里很舒服。

‘Good God! this is just what might have been expected,’ was his immediate thought. If his prophetic soul had been urged to particularize, it seemed to him that ‘fits’ would have been the definite expression alighted upon. He asked his informant, the butler, whether the doctor had been sent for. The butler never knew his master want the doctor before; but would it not be right to send for a physician?
‘天啊！这正是他所预料的。”他立即想到。如果他的预言灵魂被催促去具体化，在他看来，“适合”将是明确的表达方式。他问他的线人管家是否已经派人去请医生了。管家以前从来不知道他的主人想要请医生。但派人去请医生不是合适吗？

When Sir James entered the library, however, Mr. Casaubon could make some signs of his usual politeness, and Dorothea, who in the reaction from her first terror had been kneeling and sobbing by his side now rose and herself proposed that some one should ride off for a medical man.
然而，当詹姆斯爵士进入图书馆时，卡苏邦先生可以表现出他一贯的礼貌，而多萝西娅则因为第一次的恐惧而跪在他身边哭泣，现在站了起来，提议有人应该骑车。去当一名医生。

‘I recommend you to send for Lydgate,’ said Sir James. ‘My mother has called him in, and she has found him uncommonly clever. She has had a poor opinion of the physicians since my father’s death.’
“我建议你派人去找利德盖特，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “我母亲把他叫了进来，她发现他异常聪明。自从我父亲去世后，她对医生的看法一直很差。

Dorothea appealed to her husband, and he made a silent sign of approval. So Mr. Lydgate was sent for and he came wonderfully soon, for the messenger, who was Sir James Chettam’s man and knew Mr. Lydgate, met him leading his horse along the Lowick road and giving his arm to Miss Vincy.
多萝西娅向她的丈夫求助，他默默地做出了表示赞同的手势。因此，利德盖特先生被派去，他很快就来了，因为送信人是詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士的人，认识利德盖特先生，他牵着马沿着洛威克路遇见了他，并把他的手臂交给了文西小姐。

Celia, in the drawing-room, had known nothing of the trouble till Sir James told her of it. After Dorothea’s account, he no longer considered the illness a fit, but still something ‘of that nature.’
西莉亚在客厅里，直到詹姆斯爵士告诉她这件事之前，她对这件事一无所知。在多萝西娅讲述之后，他不再认为这种疾病是一种痉挛，但仍然是“那种性质的”。

‘Poor dear Dodo—how dreadful!’ said Celia, feeling as much grieved as her own perfect happiness would allow. Her little hands were clasped, and enclosed by Sir James’s as a bud is enfolded by a liberal calyx. ‘It is very shocking that Mr. Casaubon should be ill; but I never did like him. And I think he is not half fond enough of Dorothea; and he ought to be, for I am sure no one else would have had him— do you think they would?’
“可怜的亲爱的渡渡鸟——多么可怕啊！”西莉亚说，她在自己完美的幸福所允许的范围内感到尽可能的悲伤。她的小手紧握着，被詹姆斯爵士的双手包围着，就像花蕾被自由的花萼包围着一样。 “卡苏邦先生生病了，这真是令人震惊；但我从来没有喜欢过他。我认为他还不够喜欢多萝西娅；他应该如此，因为我确信没有人会拥有他——你认为他们会吗？

‘I always thought it a horrible sacrifice of your sister,’ said Sir James.
“我一直认为这是你妹妹的可怕牺牲，”詹姆斯爵士说。

‘Yes. But poor Dodo never did do what other people do, and I think she never will.’
'是的。但可怜的多多从来没有做过别人做过的事，我想她永远也不会。

‘She is a noble creature,’ said the loyal-hearted Sir James. He had just had a fresh impression of this kind, as he had seen Dorothea stretching her tender arm under her husband’s neck and looking at him with unspeakable sorrow. He did not know how much penitence there was in the sorrow.
“她是一个高贵的人物，”忠诚的詹姆斯爵士说道。他刚刚对这种印象有了新的认识，因为他看到多萝西娅将她温柔的手臂伸到丈夫的脖子下，用难以言喻的悲伤看着他。他不知道悲伤之中还有多少的悔恨。

‘Yes,’ said Celia, thinking it was very well for Sir James to say so, but HE would not have been comfortable with Dodo. ‘Shall I go to her? Could I help her, do you think?’
“是的，”西莉亚说，她认为詹姆斯爵士这么说很好，但他对多多感到不舒服。 ‘我要去找她吗？你觉得我可以帮助她吗？

‘I think it would be well for you just to go and see her before Lydgate comes,’ said Sir James, magnanimously. ‘Only don’t stay long.’
“我想你最好在利德盖特来之前去看看她，”詹姆斯爵士慷慨地说。 “只是不要久留。”

While Celia was gone he walked up and down remembering what he had originally felt about Dorothea’s engagement, and feeling a revival of his disgust at Mr. Brooke’s indifference. If Cadwallader— if every one else had regarded the affair as he, Sir James, had done, the marriage might have been hindered. It was wicked to let a young girl blindly decide her fate in that way, without any effort to save her. Sir James had long ceased to have any regrets on his own account: his heart was satisfied with his engagement to Celia. But he had a chivalrous nature (was not the disinterested service of woman among the ideal glories of old chivalry?): his disregarded love had not turned to bitterness; its death had made sweet odors— floating memories that clung with a consecrating effect to Dorothea. He could remain her brotherly friend, interpreting her actions with generous trustfulness.
西莉亚离开后，他走来走去，想起自己最初对多萝西娅订婚的感受，并再次对布鲁克先生的冷漠感到厌恶。如果卡德沃拉德——如果其他人都像他詹姆斯爵士那样看待这件事，那么这桩婚姻可能会受到阻碍。让一个年轻的女孩就这样盲目地决定自己的命运，而不做出任何努力来拯救她，这是邪恶的。詹姆斯爵士早已不再为自己感到遗憾：他内心对自己与西莉亚的订婚感到满意。但他有一种侠义本性（对女人的无私服务难道不是古代骑士精神的理想光荣吗？）：他的漠视爱情并没有变成苦涩；它的死亡散发出甜蜜的气味——漂浮的记忆对多萝西娅产生了神圣的影响。他可以继续是她的兄弟朋友，以慷慨的信任来解释她的行为。

CHAPTER XXX
第三章

“Qui veut delasser hors de propos, lasse.’
“Qui veut delasser hors de propos，lasse。”

—PASCAL.
——帕斯卡。

Mr. Casaubon had no second attack of equal severity with the first, and in a few days began to recover his usual condition. But Lydgate seemed to think the case worth a great deal of attention. He not only used his stethoscope (which had not become a matter of course in practice at that time), but sat quietly by his patient and watched him. To Mr. Casaubon’s questions about himself, he replied that the source of the illness was the common error of intellectual men—a too eager and monotonous application: the remedy was, to be satisfied with moderate work, and to seek variety of relaxation. Mr. Brooke, who sat by on one occasion, suggested that Mr. Casaubon should go fishing, as Cadwallader did, and have a turning-room, make toys, table-legs, and that kind of thing.
卡苏邦先生没有出现与第一次同样严重的第二次发作，几天后他的病情就开始恢复正常。但利德盖特似乎认为此案值得高度关注。他不仅使用听诊器（当时这在实践中还没有成为理所当然的事情），而且安静地坐在病人旁边观察他。对于卡苏邦先生关于自己的问题，他回答说，疾病的根源是知识分子的共同错误——过于急切和单调的应用：补救措施是满足于适度的工作，并寻求各种放松。有一次坐在旁边的布鲁克先生建议卡苏邦先生应该像卡德沃拉德那样去钓鱼，并拥有一个转动室，制作玩具、桌腿之类的东西。

‘In short, you recommend me to anticipate the arrival of my second childhood,’ said poor Mr. Casaubon, with some bitterness. ‘These things,’ he added, looking at Lydgate, ‘would be to me such relaxation as tow-picking is to prisoners in a house of correction.’
“简而言之，你建议我期待第二个童年的到来。”可怜的卡苏邦先生带着些许苦涩说道。 “这些事情，”他看着利德盖特补充道，“对我来说，就像在惩教所里给囚犯捡拖丝一样放松。”

‘I confess,’ said Lydgate, smiling, ‘amusement is rather an unsatisfactory prescription. It is something like telling people to keep up their spirits. Perhaps I had better say, that you must submit to be mildly bored rather than to go on working.’
“我承认，”利德盖特微笑着说，“娱乐是一种不太令人满意的药方。这就像告诉人们要保持精神一样。也许我最好说，你必须忍受轻微的无聊，而不是继续工作。

‘Yes, yes,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘Get Dorothea to play back. gammon with you in the evenings. And shuttlecock, now—I don’t know a finer game than shuttlecock for the daytime. I remember it all the fashion. To be sure, your eyes might not stand that, Casaubon. But you must unbend, you know. Why, you might take to some light study: conchology, now: it always think that must be a light study. Or get Dorothea to read you light things, Smollett—‘Roderick Random,’ ‘Humphrey Clinker:’ they are a little broad, but she may read anything now she’s married, you know. I remember they made me laugh uncommonly—there’s a droll bit about a postilion’s breeches. We have no such humor now. I have gone through all these things, but they might be rather new to you.’
“是的，是的，”布鲁克先生说。 ‘让多萝西娅回放。晚上和你一起玩金门。现在还有毽子——我不知道还有什么比白天的毽子更好的运动了。我记得所有的时尚。可以肯定的是，你的眼睛可能无法忍受，卡苏邦。但你必须挺直腰杆，你知道。为什么，你可能会进行一些轻松的研究：贝壳学，现在：它总是认为这一定是一个轻松的研究。或者让多萝西娅给你读一些轻松的东西，斯莫利特——“罗德里克·兰登”，“汉弗莱·克林克”：它们有点宽泛，但你知道，她现在结婚了，可以读任何东西。我记得他们让我笑得很不寻常——马斯蒂利昂的马裤有点滑稽。我们现在没有这样的幽默了。我经历过所有这些事情，但它们对你来说可能相当新鲜。

‘As new as eating thistles,’ would have been an answer to represent Mr. Casaubon’s feelings. But he only bowed resignedly, with due respect to his wife’s uncle, and observed that doubtless the works he mentioned had ‘served as a resource to a certain order of minds.’
“就像吃蓟一样新鲜”可能是代表卡苏邦先生感受的答案。但他只是顺从地鞠了一躬，对他妻子的叔叔表示了应有的尊重，并指出他提到的作品无疑“成为了某种思想的资源”。

‘You see,’ said the able magistrate to Lydgate, when they were outside the door, ‘Casaubon has been a little narrow: it leaves him rather at a loss when you forbid him his particular work, which I believe is something very deep indeed—in the line of research, you know. I would never give way to that; I was always versatile. But a clergyman is tied a little tight. If they would make him a bishop, now!—he did a very good pamphlet for Peel. He would have more movement then, more show; he might get a little flesh. But I recommend you to talk to Mrs. Casaubon. She is clever enough for anything, is my niece. Tell her, her husband wants liveliness, diversion: put her on amusing tactics.’
“你看，”当他们走出门时，能干的地方法官对利德盖特说，“卡索邦有点狭隘：当你禁止他从事他的特殊工作时，他会感到不知所措，我相信这确实是一件非常深刻的事情。” ——在研究领域，你知道。我绝不会屈服于此；我总是多才多艺。但牧师绑得有点紧。如果他们愿意让他成为主教，那就现在吧！——他为皮尔写了一本非常好的小册子。那时他会有更多的动作，更多的表演；他可能会长一点肉。但我建议你和卡苏邦夫人谈谈。她什么都聪明，是我的侄女。告诉她，她的丈夫想要热闹、消遣：让她采取一些有趣的策略。

Without Mr. Brooke’s advice, Lydgate had determined on speaking to Dorothea. She had not been present while her uncle was throwing out his pleasant suggestions as to the mode in which life at Lowick might be enlivened, but she was usually by her husband’s side, and the unaffected signs of intense anxiety in her face and voice about whatever touched his mind or health, made a drama which Lydgate was inclined to watch. He said to himself that he was only doing right in telling her the truth about her husband’s probable future, but he certainly thought also that it would be interesting to talk confidentially with her. A medical man likes to make psychological observations, and sometimes in the pursuit of such studies is too easily tempted into momentous prophecy which life and death easily set at nought. Lydgate had often been satirical on this gratuitous prediction, and he meant now to be guarded.
没有布鲁克先生的建议，利德盖特决定与多萝西娅谈谈。当她叔叔就如何让洛威克的生活充满活力提出令人愉快的建议时，她并不在场，但她通常都在她丈夫身边，她的脸上和声音中流露出对任何事情的强烈焦虑的不受影响的迹象触动了他的思想或健康，制作了一部利德盖特愿意观看的戏剧。他对自己说，他告诉她关于她丈夫可能的未来的真相是正确的，但他当然也认为与她秘密交谈会很有趣。医学家喜欢进行心理观察，有时在进行此类研究的过程中很容易受到诱惑而作出重大预言，而这些预言很容易被生死置之不理。利德盖特经常讽刺这种无端的预测，现在他打算小心谨慎。

He asked for Mrs. Casaubon, but being told that she was out walking, he was going away, when Dorothea and Celia appeared, both glowing from their struggle with the March wind. When Lydgate begged to speak with her alone, Dorothea opened the library door which happened to be the nearest, thinking of nothing at the moment but what he might have to say about Mr. Casaubon. It was the first time she had entered this room since her husband had been taken ill, and the servant had chosen not to open the shutters. But there was light enough to read by from the narrow upper panes of the windows.
他去找卡索邦夫人，但被告知她出去散步，他正要走，这时多萝西娅和西莉亚出现了，两人都因与三月的风搏斗而容光焕发。当利德盖特请求与她单独交谈时，多萝西娅打开了最近的图书馆门，此刻只想着他可能要对卡苏邦先生说些什么。自从她丈夫生病以来，这是她第一次进入这个房间，而仆人选择不打开百叶窗。但从狭窄的上层玻璃窗里透出的光线足以阅读。

‘You will not mind this sombre light,’ said Dorothea, standing in the middle of the room. ‘Since you forbade books, the library has been out of the question. But Mr. Casaubon will soon be here again, I hope. Is he not making progress?’
“你不会介意这昏暗的灯光，”多萝西娅站在房间中央说道。 “既然你禁止读书，图书馆就不可能了。但我希望卡苏邦先生很快就会再次来到这里。他没有进步吗？

‘Yes, much more rapid progress than I at first expected. Indeed, he is already nearly in his usual state of health.’
“是的，进展比我最初预期的要快得多。事实上，他已经接近正常的健康状态了。”

‘You do not fear that the illness will return?’ said Dorothea, whose quick ear had detected some significance in Lydgate’s tone.
“你不担心疾病会复发吗？”多萝西娅说，她敏锐的耳朵听出了利德盖特语气中的某种含义。

‘Such cases are peculiarly difficult to pronounce upon,’ said Lydgate. ‘The only point on which I can be confident is that it will be desirable to be very watchful on Mr. Casaubon’s account, lest he should in any way strain his nervous power.’
“这种情况特别难以下结论，”利德盖特说。 “我唯一可以确信的一点是，最好对卡苏邦先生的账户保持高度警惕，以免他以任何方式过度紧张。”

‘I beseech you to speak quite plainly,’ said Dorothea, in an imploring tone. ‘I cannot bear to think that there might be something which I did not know, and which, if I had known it, would have made me act differently.’ The words came out like a cry: it was evident that they were the voice of some mental experience which lay not very far off.
“我恳求你说清楚，”多萝西娅用恳求的语气说道。 “一想到可能有一些我不知道的事情，我就无法忍受，如果我知道的话，我的行为就会有所不同。”这句话像哭声一样发出来：很明显，他们就是那个声音。一些离我们不远的心理体验。

‘Sit down,’ she added, placing herself on the nearest chair, and throwing off her bonnet and gloves, with an instinctive discarding of formality where a great question of destiny was concerned.
“坐下，”她补充道，坐到最近的椅子上，脱掉帽子和手套，本能地抛弃了涉及命运的重大问题的拘谨。

‘What you say now justifies my own view,’ said Lydgate. ‘I think it is one’s function as a medical man to hinder regrets of that sort as far as possible. But I beg you to observe that Mr. Casaubon’s case is precisely of the kind in which the issue is most difficult to pronounce upon. He may possibly live for fifteen years or more, without much worse health than he has had hitherto.’
“你现在所说的证明了我自己的观点，”利德盖特说。 “我认为，作为一名医生，一个人的职责就是尽可能地阻止这种遗憾。但我恳请您注意，卡苏邦先生的案件恰恰属于最难发表意见的案件。他可能会活十五年或更长时间，而健康状况不会比迄今为止更糟糕。

Dorothea had turned very pale, and when Lydgate paused she said in a low voice, ‘You mean if we are very careful.’
多萝西娅的脸色变得非常苍白，当利德盖特停下来时，她低声说道：“你的意思是，如果我们非常小心的话。”

‘Yes—careful against mental agitation of all kinds, and against excessive application.’
“是的——小心防止各种精神激动，并防止过度使用。”

‘He would be miserable, if he had to give up his work,’ said Dorothea, with a quick prevision of that wretchedness.
“如果他不得不放弃工作，他会很痛苦。”多萝西娅说道，她很快就预见到了那种痛苦。

‘I am aware of that. The only course is to try by all means, direct and indirect, to moderate and vary his occupations. With a happy concurrence of circumstances, there is, as I said, no immediate danger from that affection of the heart, which I believe to have been the cause of his late attack. On the other hand, it is possible that the disease may develop itself more rapidly: it is one of those eases in which death is sometimes sudden. Nothing should be neglected which might be affected by such an issue.’
“我知道这一点。唯一的办法就是想方设法，直接或间接地尝试调整和改变他的职业。幸运的是，正如我所说，内心的情感并没有立即带来危险，我相信这就是他最近发作的原因。另一方面，这种疾病可能会发展得更快：这是有时会突然死亡的疾病之一。任何可能受到此类问题影响的事情都不应该被忽视。

There was silence for a few moments, while Dorothea sat as if she had been turned to marble, though the life within her was so intense that her mind had never before swept in brief time over an equal range of scenes and motives.
沉默了一会儿，多萝西娅坐在那里，仿佛她已经变成了大理石，尽管她体内的生命如此强烈，以至于她的思绪以前从未在短时间内扫过同样范围的场景和动机。

‘Help me, pray,’ she said, at last, in the same low voice as before. ‘Tell me what I can do.’
“请帮帮我，祈祷吧，”她最后说道，声音一如既往地低沉。 “告诉我我能做什么。”

‘What do you think of foreign travel? You have been lately in Rome, I think.’
“你觉得出国旅行怎么样？我想你最近去过罗马。”

The memories which made this resource utterly hopeless were a new current that shook Dorothea out of her pallid immobility.
使这个资源完全绝望的记忆是一股新的潮流，将多萝西娅从她苍白的一动不动中摇醒。

‘Oh, that would not do—that would be worse than anything,’ she said with a more childlike despondency, while the tears rolled down. ‘Nothing will be of any use that he does not enjoy.’
“哦，那不行——那会比什么都糟糕，”她带着一种更加孩子气的沮丧说道，泪水滚落下来。 “他不喜欢的东西就没有任何用处。”

‘I wish that I could have spared you this pain,’ said Lydgate, deeply touched, yet wondering about her marriage. Women just like Dorothea had not entered into his traditions.
“我希望我能让你免受这种痛苦，”利德盖特深受感动，但又对她的婚姻感到好奇。像多萝西娅这样的女人没有进入他的传统。

‘It was right of you to tell me. I thank you for telling me the truth.’
“你告诉我是对的。我感谢你告诉我真相。

‘I wish you to understand that I shall not say anything to enlighten Mr. Casaubon himself. I think it desirable for him to know nothing more than that he must not overwork him self, and must observe certain rules. Anxiety of any kind would be precisely the most unfavorable condition for him.’
“我希望你明白，我不会说任何话来启发卡苏邦先生本人。我认为他最好只知道自己不能过度劳累，并且必须遵守某些规则。任何形式的焦虑对他来说都是最不利的。

Lydgate rose, and Dorothea mechanically rose at the same time? unclasping her cloak and throwing it off as if it stifled her. He was bowing and quitting her, when an impulse which if she had been alone would have turned into a prayer, made her say with a sob in her voice—
利德盖特站了起来，多萝西娅同时机械地站了起来？她解开斗篷并将其扔掉，仿佛它让她窒息了。他正向她鞠躬，离开她，这时，一种冲动使她抽泣着说：如果她独自一人的话，这种冲动就会变成祈祷——

‘Oh, you are a wise man, are you not? You know all about life and death. Advise me. Think what I can do. He has been laboring all his life and looking forward. He minds about nothing else.— And I mind about nothing else—‘
‘哦，你是个聪明人，不是吗？你知道关于生与死的一切。告诉我。想想我能做什么。他一生都在劳作，也都在憧憬。他不关心其他任何事情。——而我也不关心其他任何事情——”

For years after Lydgate remembered the impression produced in him by this involuntary appeal—this cry from soul to soul, without other consciousness than their moving with kindred natures in the same embroiled medium, the same troublous fitfully illuminated life. But what could he say now except that he should see Mr. Casaubon again to-morrow?
多年后，利德盖特还记得这种不由自主的呼吁给他留下的印象——这种从灵魂到灵魂的呼喊，除了他们在同一个复杂的介质中与相似的本性一起移动之外，没有其他意识，同样的麻烦不断地照亮了生活。但现在除了他明天应该再次见到卡苏邦先生之外，他还能说什么呢？

When he was gone, Dorothea’s tears gushed forth, and relieved her stifling oppression. Then she dried her eyes, reminded that her distress must not be betrayed to her husband; and looked round the room thinking that she must order the servant to attend to it as usual, since Mr. Casaubon might now at any moment wish to enter. On his writing-table there were letters which had lain untouched since the morning when he was taken ill, and among them, as Dorothea. well remembered, there were young Ladislaw’s letters, the one addressed to her still unopened. The associations of these letters had been made the more painful by that sudden attack of illness which she felt that the agitation caused by her anger might have helped to bring on: it would be time enough to read them when they were again thrust upon her, and she had had no inclination to fetch them from the library. But now it occurred to her that they should be put out of her husband’s sight: whatever might have been the sources of his annoyance about them, he must, if possible, not be annoyed again; and she ran her eyes first over the letter addressed to him to assure herself whether or not it would be necessary to write in order to hinder the offensive visit.
当他走后，多萝西娅的泪水涌出，缓解了她令人窒息的压抑。然后她擦干眼睛，提醒自己不能将自己的痛苦泄露给丈夫；她环顾房间，心想她必须命令仆人像往常一样照顾它，因为卡苏邦先生现在可能随时想进去。他的写字台上有几封信，自从他生病的那天早上起，就一直没有动过，其中包括多萝西娅的信。记得很清楚，里面有年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫的信，写给她的那封还没有拆封。这些信件的联想因疾病的突然发作而变得更加痛苦，她觉得她的愤怒引起的不安可能有助于引起这些信件：当它们再次强加给她时，就有足够的时间来阅读它们了，她也不想从图书馆去取它们。但现在她突然想到，应该把它们从她丈夫的视线之外赶走：无论他对它们的恼怒的根源是什么，如果可能的话，他一定不能再惹恼；否则，他就不会再对它们感到恼火了。她首先扫视了一下写给他的信，以确定是否有必要写信来阻止这次无礼的拜访。

Will wrote from Rome, and began by saying that his obligations to Mr. Casaubon were too deep for all thanks not to seem impertinent. It was plain that if he were not grateful, he must be the poorest-spirited rascal who had ever found a generous friend. To expand in wordy thanks would be like saying, ‘I am honest.’ But Will had come to perceive that his defects—defects which Mr. Casaubon had himself often pointed to—needed for their correction that more strenuous position which his relative’s generosity had hitherto prevented from being inevitable. He trusted that he should make the best return, if return were possible, by showing the effectiveness of the education for which he was indebted, and by ceasing in future to need any diversion towards himself of funds on which others might have a better claim. He was coming to England, to try his fortune, as many other young men were obliged to do whose only capital was in their brains. His friend Naumann had desired him to take charge of the ‘Dispute’—the picture painted for Mr. Casaubon, with whose permission, and Mrs. Casaubon’s, Will would convey it to Lowick in person. A letter addressed to the Poste Restante in Paris within the fortnight would hinder him, if necessary, from arriving at an inconvenient moment. He enclosed a letter to Mrs. Casaubon in which he continued a discussion about art, begun with her in Rome.
威尔从罗马写信，一开始就说他对卡苏邦先生的义务太深了，无法不显得无礼。显然，如果他不心存感激，他一定是有史以来找到一个慷慨朋友的最穷的无赖。用冗长的感谢来表达就好像说：“我是诚实的。”但是威尔逐渐意识到他的缺陷——卡苏邦先生自己经常指出的缺陷——需要纠正，而他的亲戚的慷慨却使他处于更艰难的境地。迄今为止，这还不是不可避免的。他相信，如果可能的话，他应该获得最好的回报，通过展示他所受教育的有效性，并在未来不再需要任何其他人可能有更好要求的资金转移给自己。他来英国是为了试试自己的运气，就像许多其他年轻人被迫做的那样，他们唯一的资本就在他们的大脑里。他的朋友瑙曼希望他负责处理“争端”——这幅画是为卡苏邦先生画的，在卡苏邦先生和卡苏邦夫人的允许下，威尔会将它亲自转交给洛威克。如果有必要的话，两周内写给巴黎《恢复邮报》的一封信将阻止他在不方便的时刻到达。他附上一封给卡苏邦夫人的信，在信中他继续与她在罗马开始的关于艺术的讨论。

Opening her own letter Dorothea saw that it was a lively continuation of his remonstrance with her fanatical sympathy and her want of sturdy neutral delight in things as they were—an outpouring of his young vivacity which it was impossible to read just now. She had immediately to consider what was to be done about the other letter: there was still time perhaps to prevent Will from coming to Lowick. Dorothea ended by giving the letter to her uncle, who was still in the house, and begging him to let Will know that Mr. Casaubon had been ill, and that his health would not allow the reception of any visitors.
多萝西娅打开自己的信，发现这是他对她的狂热同情和她对事物本来面目缺乏坚定中立的快乐的抗议的生动延续——他年轻的活力的流露，现在是不可能读到的。她必须立即考虑如何处理另一封信：也许还有时间阻止威尔来洛威克。最后，多萝西娅把信交给了仍在屋里的叔叔，恳求他让威尔知道卡苏邦先生病了，他的健康状况不允许接待任何访客。

No one more ready than Mr. Brooke to write a letter: his only difficulty was to write a short one, and his ideas in this case expanded over the three large pages and the inward foldings. He had simply said to Dorothea—
没有人比布鲁克先生更愿意写一封信：他唯一的困难是写一封简短的信，而他在这种情况下的想法扩展到了三大页和向内的折叠。他只是对多萝西娅说——

‘To be sure, I will write, my dear. He’s a very clever young fellow— this young Ladislaw—I dare say will be a rising young man. It’s a good letter—marks his sense of things, you know. However, I will tell him about Casaubon.’
“当然，我会写的，亲爱的。他是一个非常聪明的年轻人——这个年轻的拉迪斯拉夫——我敢说他会成为一个冉冉升起的年轻人。这是一封很好的信——表明了他对事物的看法，你知道。不过，我会告诉他卡索邦的事。”

But the end of Mr. Brooke’s pen was a thinking organ, evolving sentences, especially of a benevolent kind, before the rest of his mind could well overtake them. It expressed regrets and proposed remedies, which, when Mr. Brooke read them, seemed felicitously worded— surprisingly the right thing, and determined a sequel which he had never before thought of. In this case, his pen found it such a pity young Ladislaw should not have come into the neighborhood. just at that time, in order that Mr. Brooke might make his acquaintance more fully, and that they might go over the long-neglected Italian drawings together—it also felt such an interest in a young man who was starting in life with a stock of ideas—that by the end of the second page it had persuaded Mr. Brooke to invite young Ladislaw, since he could not be received at Lowick, to come to Tipton Grange. Why not? They could find a great many things to do together, and this was a period of peculiar growth—the political horizon was expanding, and—in short, Mr. Brooke’s pen went off into a little speech which it had lately reported for that imperfectly edited organ the ‘Middlemarch Pioneer.’ While Mr. Brooke was sealing this letter, he felt elated with an influx of dim projects:—a young man capable of putting ideas into form, the ‘Pioneer’ purchased to clear the pathway for a new candidate, documents utilized—who knew what might come of it all? Since Celia was going to marry immediately, it would be very pleasant to have a young fellow at table with him, at least for a time.
但布鲁克先生的笔的末端是一个思考器官，在他的大脑的其余部分能够很好地超越它们之前，它会不断地演变句子，尤其是仁慈的句子。它表达了遗憾并提出了补救措施，布鲁克先生读到这些内容时，似乎措辞恰当——令人惊讶的是，这是正确的事情，并确定了他以前从未想过的续集。在这种情况下，他的笔觉得年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫不应该来到附近真是太可惜了。就在那时，为了让布鲁克先生能更全面地认识他，也为了让他们能够一起重温那些长期被忽视的意大利图画——它也对一个刚刚以股票开始生活的年轻人产生了这样的兴趣。的想法——到了第二页的末尾，它已经说服布鲁克先生邀请年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫来蒂普顿农庄，因为他不能在洛威克受到接待。为什么不？他们可以找到很多事情可以一起做，这是一个特殊的成长时期——政治视野正在扩大，而且——简而言之，布鲁克先生的笔变成了一篇小演讲，最近报道了那篇编辑不完美的演讲。当布鲁克先生密封这封信时，他对大量暗淡项目的涌入感到高兴：——一个能够将想法付诸实践的年轻人，“先锋”购买了一个，为新候选人扫清道路、使用的文件——谁知道这一切会带来什么结果？既然西莉亚马上就要结婚了，有一个年轻人陪他一起吃饭，至少暂时是一件很愉快的事情。

But he went away without telling Dorothea what he had put into the letter, for she was engaged with her husband, and—in fact, these things were of no importance to her.
但他没有告诉多萝西娅他在信中写了什么就走了，因为她已经和她的丈夫订婚了，而且——事实上，这些事情对她来说并不重要。

CHAPTER XXXI
第三十一章

How will you know the pitch of that great bell
你怎么知道那口大钟的音调

Too large for you to stir? Let but a flute
太大了，你无法搅拌吗？只放一支笛子

Play ‘neath the fine-mixed metal listen close
在精细混合的金属下演奏，仔细聆听

Till the right note flows forth, a silvery rill.
直到正确的音符流出，一条银色的小溪。

Then shall the huge bell tremble—then the mass
然后大钟就会颤抖——然后质量

With myriad waves concurrent shall respond
万千波涛并发应有回应

In low soft unison.
低沉柔和的齐声。

Lydgate that evening spoke to Miss Vincy of Mrs. Casaubon, and laid some emphasis on the strong feeling she appeared to have for that formal studious man thirty years older than herself.
那天晚上，利德盖特与卡索邦夫人的文西小姐进行了交谈，并强调了她对那个比她年长三十岁、正式好学的男人的强烈感情。

‘Of course she is devoted to her husband,’ said Rosamond, implying a notion of necessary sequence which the scientific man regarded as the prettiest possible for a woman; but she was thinking at the same time that it was not so very melancholy to be mistress of Lowick Manor with a husband likely to die soon. ‘Do you think her very handsome?’
“当然，她忠于她的丈夫，”罗莎蒙德说，暗示了一种必然顺序的概念，科学家认为这种顺序对于一个女人来说是最美丽的。但她同时又想到，身为洛威克庄园的女主人，丈夫可能很快就会死去，这并不是那么令人悲伤。 “你觉得她很帅吗？”

‘She certainly is handsome, but I have not thought about it,’ said Lydgate.
“她确实很漂亮，但我还没有考虑过这一点，”利德盖特说。

‘I suppose it would be unprofessional,’ said Rosamond, dimpling. ‘But how your practice is spreading! You were called in before to the Chettams, I think; and now, the Casaubons.’
“我想这很不专业，”罗莎蒙德说，脸上露出了酒窝。 ‘但是你的做法是如何传播的！我想你以前曾被叫到切塔姆去；现在，卡苏邦一家。

‘Yes,’ said Lydgate, in a tone of compulsory admission. ‘But I don’t really like attending such people so well as the poor. The cases are more monotonous, and one has to go through more fuss and listen more deferentially to nonsense.’
“是的，”利德盖特以强制承认的语气说道。 “但我不太喜欢照顾这些人，也不喜欢照顾穷人。”案件更加单调，人们必须经历更多的麻烦，更恭敬地听废话。

‘Not more than in Middlemarch,’ said Rosamond. ‘And at least you go through wide corridors and have the scent of rose-leaves everywhere.’
“并不比米德尔马契更严重，”罗莎蒙德说。 “至少你穿过宽阔的走廊，到处都能闻到玫瑰叶的香味。”

‘That is true, Mademoiselle de Montmorenci,’ said Lydgate, just bending his head to the table and lifting with his fourth finger her delicate handkerchief which lay at the mouth of her reticule, as if to enjoy its scent, while he looked at her with a smile.
“确实如此，德蒙莫伦西小姐，”利德盖特说，他只是把头低到桌子上，用无名指举起放在手提袋口的精致手帕，仿佛在享受它的香味，同时他看着她。带着微笑。

But this agreeable holiday freedom with which Lydgate hovered about the flower of Middlemarch, could not continue indefinitely. It was not more possible to find social isolation in that town than elsewhere, and two people persistently flirting could by no means escape from ‘the various entanglements, weights, blows, clashings, motions, by which things severally go on.’ Whatever Miss Vincy did must be remarked, and she was perhaps the more conspicuous to admirers and critics because just now Mrs. Vincy, after some struggle, had gone with Fred to stay a little while at Stone Court, there being no other way of at once gratifying old Featherstone and keeping watch against Mary Garth, who appeared a less tolerable daughter-in-law in proportion as Fred’s illness disappeared.
但利德盖特在米德尔马契花朵上徘徊的这种令人愉快的假期自由不可能无限期地持续下去。在那个小镇里并不比在其他地方更容易找到社会隔离，两个持续调情的人决无法摆脱“事情各自进行的各种纠缠、重量、打击、冲突、动作。”无论文西小姐如何。确实必须指出，而且她也许对崇拜者和批评者来说更引人注目，因为刚才文西夫人经过一番挣扎，和弗雷德一起去斯通庭院住了一会儿，没有其他办法可以立即满足老人们的需求。费瑟斯通并密切关注玛丽·加斯，随着弗雷德的病消失，玛丽·加斯似乎成为了一个不太令人容忍的儿媳妇。

Aunt Bulstrode, for example, came a little oftener into Lowick Gate to see Rosamond, now she was alone. For Mrs. Bulstrode had a true sisterly feeling for her brother; always thinking that he might have married better, but wishing well to the children. Now Mrs. Bulstrode had a long-standing intimacy with Mrs. Plymdale. They had nearly the same preferences in silks, patterns for underclothing, china-ware, and clergymen; they confided their little troubles of health and household management to each other, and various little points of superiority on Mrs. Bulstrode’s side, namely, more decided seriousness, more admiration for mind, and a house outside the town, sometimes served to give color to their conversation without dividing them—well-meaning women both, knowing very little of their own motives.
例如，布尔斯特罗德姨妈来洛威克门看罗莎蒙德的次数增加了一些，但现在只有她一个人了。因为布尔斯特罗德夫人对她的兄弟有一种真正的姐妹情谊。总是想着他可能会结婚更好，但祝愿孩子们一切顺利。现在，布尔斯特罗德夫人与普林代尔夫人有着长期的亲密关系。他们对丝绸、内衣图案、瓷器和牧师的偏好几乎相同。他们互相倾诉自己在健康和家庭管理方面的小烦恼，而布尔斯特罗德夫人则有各种小优点，即更加严肃、更加钦佩头脑，以及在城外有一所房子，有时可以为他们的生活增光添彩。他们的谈话并没有分裂他们——两个都是善意的女人，对自己的动机知之甚少。

Mrs. Bulstrode, paying a morning visit to Mrs. Plymdale, happened to say that she could not stay longer, because she was going to see poor Rosamond.
布尔斯特罗德夫人早上拜访普利姆代尔夫人时，碰巧说她不能再待太久了，因为她要去见可怜的罗莎蒙德。

‘Why do you say ‘poor Rosamond’?’ said Mrs. Plymdale, a round-eyed sharp little woman, like a tamed falcon.
“你为什么说‘可怜的罗莎蒙德’？”普利姆代尔太太说道，她是一位圆眼睛、尖刻的小女人，就像一只驯服的猎鹰。

‘She is so pretty, and has been brought up in such thoughtlessness. The mother, you know, had always that levity about her, which makes me anxious for the children.’
“她是如此美丽，却是在如此无知的环境中长大的。你知道，这位母亲总是很轻率，这让我为孩子们感到焦虑。

‘Well, Harriet, if I am to speak my mind,’ said Mrs. Plymdale, with emphasis, ‘I must say, anybody would suppose you and Mr. Bulstrode would be delighted with what has happened, for you have done everything to put Mr. Lydgate forward.’
“好吧，哈丽特，如果我要说出我的想法，”普林代尔夫人强调道，“我必须说，任何人都会认为你和布尔斯特罗德先生会对所发生的事情感到高兴，因为你已经做了一切努力利德盖特先生向前。

‘Selina, what do you mean?’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, in genuine surprise.
“塞琳娜，你这是什么意思？”布尔斯特罗德夫人惊讶地说。

‘Not but what I am truly thankful for Ned’s sake,’ said Mrs. Plymdale. ‘He could certainly better afford to keep such a wife than some people can; but I should wish him to look elsewhere. Still a mother has anxieties, and some young men would take to a bad life in consequence. Besides, if I was obliged to speak, I should say I was not fond of strangers coming into a town.’
“不是，但我真的很感谢奈德，”普林代尔夫人说。 “他当然比某些人更有能力娶到这样的妻子；但我希望他去别处看看。母亲仍然会感到焦虑，而一些年轻人的生活也会因此而变得糟糕。此外，如果我必须说话，我应该说我不喜欢陌生人进入城镇。

‘I don’t know, Selina,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, with a little emphasis in her turn. ‘Mr. Bulstrode was a stranger here at one time. Abraham and Moses were strangers in the land, and we are told to entertain strangers. And especially,’ she added, after a slight pause, ‘when they are unexceptionable.’
“我不知道，塞琳娜，”布尔斯特罗德夫人说，轮到她时稍微强调了一点。 '先生。布尔斯特罗德曾经对这里很陌生。亚伯拉罕和摩西是这片土地上的陌生人，我们被告知要招待陌生人。尤其是，”她稍稍停顿了一下后补充道，“当它们无可挑剔时。”

‘I was not speaking in a religious sense, Harriet. I spoke as a mother.’
“我不是在宗教意义上说话，哈丽特。我以母亲的身份发言。

‘Selina, I am sure you have never heard me say anything against a niece of mine marrying your son.’
“塞琳娜，我相信你从来没有听过我说过任何反对我的侄女嫁给你儿子的话。”

‘Oh, it is pride in Miss Vincy—I am sure it is nothing else,’ said Mrs. Plymdale, who had never before given all her confidence to ‘Harriet’ on this subject. ‘No young man in Middlemarch was good enough for her: I have heard her mother say as much. That is not a Christian spirit, I think. But now, from all I hear, she has found a man AS proud as herself.’
“哦，这是文西小姐的骄傲——我相信这不是别的，”普林代尔夫人说，她以前从未在这个问题上把全部信心都交给“哈丽特”。 “米德尔马奇没有一个年轻人配得上她：我听她母亲这么说过。我认为这不是基督教精神。但现在，据我所知，她找到了一个像她一样自豪的男人。”

‘You don’t mean that there is anything between Rosamond and Mr. Lydgate?’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, rather mortified at finding out her own ignorance
“你的意思不是说罗莎蒙德和利德盖特先生之间有什么关系吗？”布尔斯特罗德夫人说，她因发现自己的无知而感到十分羞愧。

‘Is it possible you don’t know, Harriet?’
“你有可能不知道吗，哈丽特？”

‘Oh, I go about so little; and I am not fond of gossip; I really never hear any. You see so many people that I don’t see. Your circle is rather different from ours.’
“哦，我很少出去；我不喜欢八卦；我真的从来没有听到过。你看到了很多我看不到的人。你的圈子和我们的圈子很不一样。

‘Well, but your own niece and Mr. Bulstrode’s great favorite— and yours too, I am sure, Harriet! I thought, at one time, you meant him for Kate, when she is a little older.’
“好吧，但是你自己的侄女和布尔斯特罗德先生最喜欢的——我相信也是你的，哈丽特！我想，有一次，你指的是凯特，当她大一点的时候。

‘I don’t believe there can be anything serious at present,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode. ‘My brother would certainly have told me.’
“我认为目前不会有什么严重的事情，”布尔斯特罗德夫人说。 “我哥哥肯定会告诉我的。”

‘Well, people have different ways, but I understand that nobody can see Miss Vincy and Mr. Lydgate together without taking them to be engaged. However, it is not my business. Shall I put up the pattern of mittens?’
“好吧，人们有不同的方式，但我知道没有人能看到文西小姐和利德盖特先生在一起而不认为他们订婚了。不过，这不关我的事。我可以画出手套的图案吗？

After this Mrs. Bulstrode drove to her niece with a mind newly weighted. She was herself handsomely dressed, but she noticed with a little more regret than usual that Rosamond, who was just come in and met her in walking-dress, was almost as expensively equipped. Mrs. Bulstrode was a feminine smaller edition of her brother, and had none of her husband’s low-toned pallor. She had a good honest glance and used no circumlocution.
此后，布尔斯特罗德夫人带着新的心情开车去找她的侄女。她自己穿得很漂亮，但她比平常更遗憾地注意到，刚刚进来迎接她的穿着步行服装的罗莎蒙德几乎配备了同样昂贵的装备。布尔斯特罗德夫人是她哥哥的缩小版女性化版本，没有她丈夫那样的低沉苍白。她目光诚实，没有任何拐弯抹角。

‘You are alone, I see, my dear,’ she said, as they entered the drawing-room together, looking round gravely. Rosamond felt sure that her aunt had something particular to say, and they sat down near each other. Nevertheless, the quilling inside Rosamond’s bonnet was so charming that it was impossible not to desire the same kind of thing for Kate, and Mrs. Bulstrode’s eyes, which were rather fine, rolled round that ample quilled circuit, while she spoke.
“亲爱的，我明白了，你是独自一人，”当他们一起走进客厅时，她说道，严肃地环顾四周。罗莎蒙德确信她的姨妈有什么特别的事情要说，于是他们坐在一起。尽管如此，罗莎蒙德帽子里的羽毛毛是如此迷人，以至于凯特不可能不渴望同样的东西，而布尔斯特罗德夫人的眼睛相当漂亮，在她说话的时候，在那宽大的羽毛圈上滚动。

‘I have just heard something about you that has surprised me very much, Rosamond.’
“我刚刚听说了一些关于你的事情，这让我非常惊讶，罗莎蒙德。”

‘What is that, aunt?’ Rosamond’s eyes also were roaming over her aunt’s large embroidered collar.
“那是什么，阿姨？”罗莎蒙德的目光也在她阿姨的大绣花领子上徘徊。

‘I can hardly believe it—that you should be engaged without my knowing it—without your father’s telling me.’ Here Mrs. Bulstrode’s eyes finally rested on Rosamond’s, who blushed deeply, and said—
“我简直不敢相信——在我不知情的情况下——在你父亲没有告诉我的情况下，你竟然订婚了。”说到这里，布尔斯特罗德夫人的目光最终落在了罗莎蒙德的眼睛上，罗莎蒙德的脸涨得通红，说道——

‘I am not engaged, aunt.’
“我没有订婚，阿姨。”

‘How is it that every one says so, then—that it is the town’s talk?’
“那么，为什么每个人都这么说——这是镇上的议论呢？”

‘The town’s talk is of very little consequence, I think,’ said Rosamond, inwardly gratified.
“我认为镇上的议论没有什么影响，”罗莎蒙德内心感到欣慰地说。

‘Oh, my dear, be more thoughtful; don’t despise your neighbors so. Remember you are turned twenty-two now, and you will have no fortune: your father, I am sure, will not be able to spare you anything. Mr. Lydgate is very intellectual and clever; I know there is an attraction in that. I like talking to such men myself; and your uncle finds him very useful. But the profession is a poor one here. To be sure, this life is not everything; but it is seldom a medical man has true religious views—there is too much pride of intellect. And you are not fit to marry a poor man.
‘哦，亲爱的，再考虑一下；不要这样鄙视你的邻居。请记住，你现在已经二十二岁了，你将没有财产：我确信你的父亲不会给你任何东西。利德盖特先生非常聪明、聪明。我知道这有一个吸引力。我自己就喜欢和这样的人交谈；你叔叔发现他非常有用。但这里的职业很差。诚然，今生并不是一切；但很少有医生有真正的宗教观点——对智力的骄傲太多了。而且你也不适合嫁给一个穷人。

‘Mr. Lydgate is not a poor man, aunt. He has very high connections.’
'先生。利德盖特不是一个穷人，阿姨。他有很高的人脉关系。

‘He told me himself he was poor.’
“他亲口告诉我他很穷。”

‘That is because he is used to people who have a high style
‘那是因为他习惯了高格调的人

‘My dear Rosamond, YOU must not think of living in high style.’
“我亲爱的罗莎蒙德，你一定不要想过高雅的生活。”

Rosamond looked down and played with her reticule. She was not a fiery young lady and had no sharp answers, but she meant to live as she pleased.
罗莎蒙德低下头，玩弄着她的手提包。她不是一个火爆的小姐，也没有尖锐的答案，但她想按照自己的意愿生活。

‘Then it is really true?’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, looking very earnestly at her niece. ‘You are thinking of Mr. Lydgate—there is some understanding between you, though your father doesn’t know. Be open, my dear Rosamond: Mr. Lydgate has really made you an offer?’
“那么这是真的吗？”布尔斯特罗德夫人非常认真地看着她的侄女。 “你在想利德盖特先生——你们之间有一些了解，尽管你的父亲不知道。开放吧，亲爱的罗莎蒙德：利德盖特先生真的向你提出了要约吗？

Poor Rosamond’s feelings were very unpleasant. She had been quite easy as to Lydgate’s feeling and intention, but now when her aunt put this question she did not like being unable to say Yes. Her pride was hurt, but her habitual control of manner helped her.
可怜的罗莎蒙德的心情非常不愉快。她对利德盖特的感受和意图很容易理解，但现在当她姨妈提出这个问题时，她不喜欢不能说“是”。她的自尊心受到了伤害，但她习惯性的控制态度对她有所帮助。

‘Pray excuse me, aunt. I would rather not speak on the subject.’
‘请原谅，阿姨。我宁愿不谈论这个话题。

‘You would not give your heart to a man without a decided prospect, I trust, my dear. And think of the two excellent offers I know of that you have refused!—and one still within your reach, if you will not throw it away. I knew a very great beauty who married badly at last, by doing so. Mr. Ned Plymdale is a nice young man— some might think good-looking; and an only son; and a large business of that kind is better than a profession. Not that marrying is everything I would have you seek first the kingdom of God. But a girl should keep her heart within her own power.’
“我相信，亲爱的，你不会把你的心交给一个没有明确前景的男人。想想我所知道的两个极好的报价，但你已经拒绝了！——如果你不把它扔掉的话，其中一个仍然在你的能力范围之内。我认识了一位非常美丽的人，但最终却嫁得很糟糕。内德·普林代尔先生是一位不错的年轻人——有些人可能认为他长得好看；但也有人认为他长得很帅。和一个独生子；这类大生意比职业更好。并不是说结婚就是我希望你首先寻求神的国度的一切。但女孩应该把自己的心留在自己的力量之内。”

‘I should never give it to Mr. Ned Plymdale, if it were. I have already refused him. If I loved, I should love at once and without change,’ said Rosamond, with a great sense of being a romantic heroine, and playing the part prettily.
“如果是的话，我绝对不应该把它给内德·普林代尔先生。”我已经拒绝他了。如果我爱，我就应该立刻爱，不做任何改变。”罗莎蒙德说道，她很有浪漫主义女主角的感觉，并且把这个角色扮演得非常漂亮。

‘I see how it is, my dear,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, in a melancholy voice, rising to go. ‘You have allowed your affections to be engaged without return.’
“我明白了，亲爱的，”布尔斯特罗德夫人用忧郁的声音说，起身要走。 “你已经让你的感情投入而没有回报。”

‘No, indeed, aunt,’ said Rosamond, with emphasis.
“不，确实如此，姑妈，”罗莎蒙德强调道。

‘Then you are quite confident that Mr. Lydgate has a serious attachment to you?’
“那么你确信利德盖特先生对你有很深的感情？”

Rosamond’s cheeks by this time were persistently burning, and she felt much mortification. She chose to be silent, and her aunt went away all the more convinced.
此时，罗莎蒙德的脸颊一直在灼烧，她感到非常羞愧。她选择了沉默，姨妈走开更加确信了。

Mr. Bulstrode in things worldly and indifferent was disposed to do what his wife bade him, and she now, without telling her reasons, desired him on the next opportunity to find out in conversation with Mr. Lydgate whether he had any intention of marrying soon. The result was a decided negative. Mr. Bulstrode, on being cross-questioned, showed that Lydgate had spoken as no man would who had any attachment that could issue in matrimony. Mrs. Bulstrode now felt that she had a serious duty before her, and she soon managed to arrange a tete-a-tete with Lydgate, in which she passed from inquiries about Fred Vincy’s health, and expressions of her sincere anxiety for her brother’s large family, to general remarks on the dangers which lay before young people with regard to their settlement in life. Young men were often wild and disappointing, making little return for the money spent on them, and a girl was exposed to many circumstances which might interfere with her prospects.
布尔斯特罗德先生在世俗和冷漠的事情上倾向于做他妻子吩咐他的事，而她现在没有告诉她原因，希望他下次有机会与利德盖特先生交谈，看看他是否有很快结婚的打算。 。结果是肯定的否定。布尔斯特罗德先生在接受盘问时表明，利德盖特的言论是任何有可能导致婚姻的依恋的人都不会说的。布尔斯特罗德夫人现在觉得自己肩负着一项严肃的责任，她很快就安排了与利德盖特的会面，在会面中，她询问了弗雷德·文西的健康状况，并表达了她对她哥哥的大病的真诚焦虑。家庭，对年轻人在生活安定方面面临的危险进行一般性评论。年轻男子往往狂野而令人失望，花在他们身上的钱几乎没有什么回报，而女孩则面临着许多可能影响她前途的情况。

‘Especially when she has great attractions, and her parents see much company,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode ‘Gentlemen pay her attention, and engross her all to themselves, for the mere pleasure of the moment, and that drives off others. I think it is a heavy responsibility, Mr. Lydgate, to interfere with the prospects of any girl.’ Here Mrs. Bulstrode fixed her eyes on him, with an unmistakable purpose of warning, if not of rebuke.
“特别是当她很有魅力，而且她的父母也有很多陪伴时，”布尔斯特罗德夫人说，“绅士们会关注她，让她全神贯注，只为了一时的快乐，这会赶走其他人。”利德盖特先生，我认为干涉任何女孩的前途都是一项重大责任。”说到这里，布尔斯特罗德夫人的目光注视着他，即使不是斥责，也带着明显的警告目的。

‘Clearly,’ said Lydgate, looking at her—perhaps even staring a little in return. ‘On the other hand, a man must be a great coxcomb to go about with a notion that he must not pay attention to a young lady lest she should fall in love with him, or lest others should think she must.’
“显然，”利德盖特看着她说道——甚至可能也回瞪了她一眼。 “另一方面，一个男人一定是个大花花公子，才会认为他不能关注一位年轻女士，以免她爱上他，或者以免别人认为她一定会爱上他。”

‘Oh, Mr. Lydgate, you know well what your advantages are. You know that our young men here cannot cope with you. Where you frequent a house it may militate very much against a girl’s making a desirable settlement in life, and prevent her from accepting offers even if they are made.’
“哦，利德盖特先生，你很清楚自己的优势是什么。你知道我们这里的年轻人对付不了你。如果你经常去一所房子，这可能会非常不利于女孩在生活中达成理想的解决方案，并阻止她接受提议，即使有人提出。

Lydgate was less flattered by his advantage over the Middlemarch Orlandos than he was annoyed by the perception of Mrs. Bulstrode’s meaning. She felt that she had spoken as impressively as it was necessary to do, and that in using the superior word ‘militate’ she had thrown a noble drapery over a mass of particulars which were still evident enough.
利德盖特并没有因为自己比米德尔马契奥兰多斯的优势而感到受宠若惊，而是因为理解了布尔斯特罗德夫人的意思而感到恼火。她觉得自己说的话令人印象深刻，这是必要的，而且在使用“军事”这个高级词时，她为一大堆仍然足够明显的细节披上了一层高贵的帷幕。

Lydgate was fuming a little, pushed his hair back with one hand, felt curiously in his waistcoat-pocket with the other, and then stooped to beckon the tiny black spaniel, which had the insight to decline his hollow caresses. It would not have been decent to go away, because he had been dining with other guests, and had just taken tea. But Mrs. Bulstrode, having no doubt that she had been understood, turned the conversation.
利德盖特有点生气了，他用一只手把头发向后梳，另一只手好奇地在背心口袋里摸索，然后弯腰向那只黑色小猎犬招手，它有洞察力地拒绝了他空洞的爱抚。离开是不太体面的，因为他刚刚和其他客人一起用餐，而且刚刚喝过茶。但布尔斯特罗德夫人毫不怀疑自己的意思已经被理解了，于是就改变了话题。

Solomon’s Proverbs, I think, have omitted to say, that as the sore palate findeth grit, so an uneasy consciousness heareth innuendoes. The next day Mr. Farebrother, parting from Lydgate in the street, supposed that they should meet at Vincy’s in the evening. Lydgate answered curtly, no—he had work to do—he must give up going out in the evening.
我认为，所罗门的箴言没有提到，正如上颚疼痛发现砂砾一样，不安的意识听到暗示。第二天，费雷布拉泽先生在街上与利德盖特告别时，认为他们应该晚上在文西家见面。利德盖特简短地回答，不——他还有工作要做——他必须放弃晚上出去。

‘What! you are going to get lashed to the mast, eh, and are stopping your ears?’ said the Vicar. ‘Well, if you don’t mean to be won by the sirens, you are right to take precautions in time.’
'什么！你会被绑在桅杆上，呃，并且堵住你的耳朵吗？”牧师说。 “好吧，如果你不想被海妖迷惑，那么及时采取预防措施是对的。”

A few days before, Lydgate would have taken no notice of these words as anything more than the Vicar’s usual way of putting things. They seemed now to convey an innuendo which confirmed the impression that he had been making a fool of himself and behaving so as to be misunderstood: not, he believed, by Rosamond herself; she, he felt sure, took everything as lightly as he intended it. She had an exquisite tact and insight in relation to all points of manners; but the people she lived among were blunderers and busybodies. However, the mistake should go no farther. He resolved—and kept his resolution—that he would not go to Mr. Vincy’s except on business.
几天前，利德盖特不会注意到这些话，因为这与牧师通常的表达方式不同。他们现在似乎在传达一种暗示，证实了他一直在愚弄自己并表现出被误解的印象：他相信，这不是罗莎蒙德本人；而是他自己的行为。他确信，她对一切都像他所希望的那样轻描淡写。她对礼仪的方方面面都有着敏锐的机智和洞察力。但她周围的人都是爱管闲事的人。然而，错误不应再进一步了。他下定决心——并且一直坚持他的决心——除非是出差，否则他不会去文西先生家。

Rosamond became very unhappy. The uneasiness first stirred by her aunt’s questions grew and grew till at the end of ten days that she had not seen Lydgate, it grew into terror at the blank that might possibly come—into foreboding of that ready, fatal sponge which so cheaply wipes out the hopes of mortals. The world would have a new dreariness for her, as a wilderness that a magician’s spells had turned for a little while into a garden. She felt that she was beginning to know the pang of disappointed love, and that no other man could be the occasion of such delightful aerial building as she had been enjoying for the last six months. Poor Rosamond lost her appetite and felt as forlorn as Ariadne— as a charming stage Ariadne left behind with all her boxes full of costumes and no hope of a coach.
罗莎蒙德变得非常不高兴。姨妈的问题最初激起的不安越来越强烈，直到十天后她还没有见到利德盖特，它变成了对可能出现的空白的恐惧——变成了对那块现成的、致命的海绵的预感，它如此廉价地消灭了凡人的希望。世界对她来说将会有一种新的沉闷，就像一片荒野被魔术师的咒语暂时变成了花园。她觉得自己开始体会到失恋的痛苦，没有其他男人能够像她过去六个月所享受的那样令人愉快的空中建筑。可怜的罗莎蒙德失去了胃口，感到像阿里阿德涅一样孤独——就像阿里阿德涅留下的一个迷人的舞台，她的盒子里装满了服装，而且没有教练的希望。

There are many wonderful mixtures in the world which are all alike called love, and claim the privileges of a sublime rage which is an apology for everything (in literature and the drama). Happily Rosamond did not think of committing any desperate act: she plaited her fair hair as beautifully as usual, and kept herself proudly calm. Her most cheerful supposition was that her aunt Bulstrode had interfered in some way to hinder Lydgate’s visits: everything was better than a spontaneous indifference in him. Any one who imagines ten days too short a time—not for falling into leanness, lightness, or other measurable effects of passion, but— for the whole spiritual circuit of alarmed conjecture and disappointment, is ignorant of what can go on in the elegant leisure of a young lady’s mind.
世界上有许多奇妙的混合物，它们都被称为爱，并声称拥有崇高的愤怒的特权，这是对一切（在文学和戏剧中）的道歉。庆幸的是，罗莎蒙德并没有做出什么绝望的举动：她像往常一样把金色的头发编得漂亮，并保持着骄傲的平静。她最高兴的猜测是，布尔斯特罗德姨妈以某种方式干扰了利德盖特的来访：一切都比他自发的冷漠要好。任何人如果认为十天的时间太短了——不是因为陷入瘦弱、轻松或其他可衡量的激情影响，而是——因为整个精神循环充满了惊慌的猜想和失望，他就对优雅的休闲中会发生什么一无所知。一位年轻女士的心灵。

On the eleventh day, however, Lydgate when leaving Stone Court was requested by Mrs. Vincy to let her husband know that there was a marked change in Mr. Featherstone’s health, and that she wished him to come to Stone Court on that day. Now Lydgate might have called at the warehouse, or might have written a message on a leaf of his pocket-book and left it at the door. Yet these simple devices apparently did not occur to him, from which we may conclude that he had no strong objection to calling at the house at an hour when Mr. Vincy was not at home, and leaving the message with Miss Vincy. A man may, from various motives, decline to give his company, but perhaps not even a sage would be gratified that nobody missed him. It would be a graceful, easy way of piecing on the new habits to the old, to have a few playful words with Rosamond about his resistance to dissipation, and his firm resolve to take long fasts even from sweet sounds. It must be confessed, also, that momentary speculations as to all the possible grounds for Mrs. Bulstrode’s hints had managed to get woven like slight clinging hairs into the more substantial web of his thoughts.
然而，到了第十一天，利德盖特在离开斯通考特时，应文西夫人的要求，让她的丈夫知道费瑟斯通先生的健康状况发生了显着变化，并且她希望他当天能够来斯通考特。现在，利德盖特可能去了仓库，或者可能在他的钱包上写了一条信息，然后把它留在了门口。但他显然没有想到这些简单的办法，由此我们可以得出结论，他并不强烈反对在文西先生不在家的时候到家里来，给文西小姐留言。一个人可能出于各种动机而拒绝陪伴，但也许即使是圣人也不会因为没有人想念他而感到高兴。与罗莎蒙德说几句俏皮的话，谈论他对放纵的抵制，以及他即使在甜美的声音中也坚持长时间禁食的坚定决心，这将是一种优雅、简单的方式，将新习惯与旧习惯拼凑起来。还必须承认，对布尔斯特罗德夫人暗示的所有可能理由的短暂猜测已经成功地像细小的附着毛发一样编织到了他更实质性的思想网中。

Miss Vincy was alone, and blushed so deeply when Lydgate came in that he felt a corresponding embarrassment, and instead of any playfulness, he began at once to speak of his reason for calling, and to beg her, almost formally, to deliver the message to her father. Rosamond, who at the first moment felt as if her happiness were returning, was keenly hurt by Lydgate’s manner; her blush had departed, and she assented coldly, without adding an unnecessary word, some trivial chain-work which she had in her hands enabling her to avoid looking at Lydgate higher than his chin. In all failures, the beginning is certainly the half of the whole. After sitting two long moments while he moved his whip and could say nothing, Lydgate rose to go, and Rosamond, made nervous by her struggle between mortification and the wish not to betray it, dropped her chain as if startled, and rose too, mechanically. Lydgate instantaneously stooped to pick up the chain. When he rose he was very near to a lovely little face set on a fair long neck which he had been used to see turning about under the most perfect management of self-contented grace. But as he raised his eyes now he saw a certain helpless quivering which touched him quite newly, and made him look at Rosamond with a questioning flash. At this moment she was as natural as she had ever been when she was five years old: she felt that her tears had risen, and it was no use to try to do anything else than let them stay like water on a blue flower or let them fall over her cheeks, even as they would.
文西小姐独自一人，当利德盖特进来时，她脸红得很厉害，他感到相应的尴尬，他没有任何玩笑，而是立即开始讲述他打电话的原因，并几乎正式地恳求她转达消息。给她的父亲。罗莎蒙德第一时间就感觉自己的幸福又回来了，但利德盖特的态度深深地伤害了她。她的脸红了，她冷冷地答应了，没有添加任何不必要的词，她手里拿着一些琐碎的链条，使她能够避免看着利德盖特高于他的下巴。在所有的失败中，开始无疑是整体的一半。利德盖特坐了很长一段时间，挥舞着鞭子，一句话也说不出来，然后起身要走，而罗莎蒙德，由于在屈辱和不背叛它的愿望之间挣扎而感到紧张，她仿佛受到了惊吓，丢下了链子，也机械地站了起来。 。利德盖特立即弯腰捡起链条。当他站起来时，他已经非常接近一张可爱的小脸，长在一个美丽的长脖子上，他已经习惯了看到它在最完美的自满优雅的管理下转动。但当他抬起眼睛时，他看到了一种新近触动他的无助的颤抖，让他用询问的眼神看着罗莎​​蒙德。这一刻，她就像五岁的时候一样自然：她觉得自己的泪水已经涌上来，除了让它们像蓝色花朵上的水一样停留或让它们流下来之外，尝试做任何其他事情都是没有用的。它们落在她的脸颊上，尽管它们本来会的。

That moment of naturalness was the crystallizing feather-touch: it shook flirtation into love. Remember that the ambitious man who was looking at those Forget-me-nots under the water was very warm-hearted and rash. He did not know where the chain went; an idea had thrilled through the recesses within him which had a miraculous effect in raising the power of passionate love lying buried there in no sealed sepulchre, but under the lightest, easily pierced mould. His words were quite abrupt and awkward; but the tone made them sound like an ardent, appealing avowal.
那一刻的自然就是晶莹剔透的羽毛触感：它把调情变成了爱情。请记住，那个在水下看着那些勿忘我的雄心勃勃的人是非常热心和鲁莽的。他不知道链子跑到哪里去了；一个想法在他内心的深处激动起来，它产生了奇迹般的效果，激发了埋藏在没有密封的坟墓中的热情爱的力量，而是埋在最轻的、容易刺穿的模具下。他的话很唐突，也很尴尬。但语气却让他们听起来像是一种热情、吸引人的表白。

‘What is the matter? you are distressed. Tell me, pray.’
'什么事？你很苦恼。告诉我，祈祷吧。

Rosamond had never been spoken to in such tones before. I am not sure that she knew what the words were: but she looked at Lydgate and the tears fell over her cheeks. There could have been no more complete answer than that silence, and Lydgate, forgetting everything else, completely mastered by the outrush of tenderness at the sudden belief that this sweet young creature depended on him for her joy, actually put his arms round her, folding her gently and protectingly— he was used to being gentle with the weak and suffering—and kissed each of the two large tears. This was a strange way of arriving at an understanding, but it was a short way. Rosamond was not angry, but she moved backward a little in timid happiness, and Lydgate could now sit near her and speak less incompletely. Rosamond had to make her little confession, and he poured out words of gratitude and tenderness with impulsive lavishment. In half an hour he left the house an engaged man, whose soul was not his own, but the woman’s to whom he had bound himself.
以前从未有人用这样的语气对罗莎蒙德说话。我不确定她是否知道这句话是什么：但她看着利德盖特，泪水从她的脸颊上滑落。没有比这沉默更完整的答案了，利德盖特忘记了其他一切，突然相信这个可爱的年轻生物依靠他来获得快乐，完全被温柔的控制所控制，实际上用双臂搂住了她，折叠起来温柔地、保护性地——他习惯了温柔地对待弱者和痛苦——然后亲吻了两滴大泪珠。这是达成共识的一种奇怪方式，但也是一种捷径。罗莎蒙德并没有生气，但她胆怯地幸福地向后退了一点，利德盖特现在可以坐在她旁边，说话不再那么不完整。罗莎蒙德不得不做出小小的忏悔，而他则一时冲动地慷慨地倾诉了感激和温柔的话语。半小时后，他就已订婚离开了家，但他的灵魂不属于他自己，而是属于他所束缚的那个女人。

He came again in the evening to speak with Mr. Vincy, who, just returned from Stone Court, was feeling sure that it would not be long before he heard of Mr. Featherstone’s demise. The felicitous word ‘demise,’ which had seasonably occurred to him, had raised his spirits even above their usual evening pitch. The right word is always a power, and communicates its definiteness to our action. Considered as a demise, old Featherstone’s death assumed a merely legal aspect, so that Mr. Vincy could tap his snuff-box over it and be jovial, without even an intermittent affectation of solemnity; and Mr. Vincy hated both solemnity and affectation. Who was ever awe struck about a testator, or sang a hymn on the title to real property? Mr. Vincy was inclined to take a jovial view of all things that evening: he even observed to Lydgate that Fred had got the family constitution after all, and would soon be as fine a fellow as ever again; and when his approbation of Rosamond’s engagement was asked for, he gave it with astonishing facility, passing at once to general remarks on the desirableness of matrimony for young men and maidens, and apparently deducing from the whole the appropriateness of a little more punch.
晚上他又来找文西先生谈话，文西先生刚从斯通庭院回来，确信用不了多久他就会听到费瑟斯通先生去世的消息。 “死亡”这个恰当的词突然出现在他的脑海里，使他的精神振奋起来，甚至超过了平常晚上的情绪。正确的话语永远是一种力量，并将其明确性传达给我们的行动。老费瑟斯通的死被认为是一种死亡，它的死仅仅具有法律意义，这样文西先生就可以用鼻烟盒轻敲它，表现出愉快的心情，甚至没有间歇性的庄严感。文西先生既讨厌庄重又讨厌做作。谁曾经对立遗嘱人感到敬畏，或者对不动产所有权唱过赞美诗？文西先生倾向于对那天晚上的所有事情抱有乐观的态度：他甚至对利德盖特说，弗雷德毕竟已经获得了家族章程，很快就会像以前一样优秀。当有人请求他批准罗莎蒙德订婚时，他以惊人的自如表示同意，立即就年轻人和少女结婚的可取性进行了一般性评论，并显然从整体上推断出多一点打击的适当性。

CHAPTER XXXII
第三十二章

‘They’ll take suggestion as a cat laps milk.’ —SHAKESPEARE: Tempest.
“他们会像猫喝牛奶一样接受建议。”——莎士比亚：暴风雨。

The triumphant confidence of the Mayor founded on Mr. Featherstone’s insistent demand that Fred and his mother should not leave him, was a feeble emotion compared with all that was agitating the breasts of the old man’s blood-relations, who naturally manifested more their sense of the family tie and were more visibly numerous now that he had become bedridden. Naturally: for when ‘poor Peter’ had occupied his arm-chair in the wainscoted parlor, no assiduous beetles for whom the cook prepares boiling water could have been less welcome on a hearth which they had reasons for preferring, than those persons whose Featherstone blood was ill-nourished, not from penuriousness on their part, but from poverty. Brother Solomon and Sister Jane were rich, and the family candor and total abstinence from false politeness with which they were always received seemed to them no argument that their brother in the solemn act of making his will would overlook the superior claims of wealth. Themselves at least he had never been unnatural enough to banish from his house, and it seemed hardly eccentric that he should hare kept away Brother Jonah, Sister Martha, and the rest, who had no shadow of such claims. They knew Peter’s maxim, that money was a good egg, and should be laid in a warm nest.
费瑟斯通先生坚持要求弗雷德和他的母亲不要离开他，市长的胜利信心与那些激动着老人血亲胸膛的一切相比，是一种微弱的情感，他们自然更多地表现出他们的感觉。由于他卧床不起，家庭关系更加明显。当然，当“可怜的彼得”坐在壁板客厅的扶手椅上时，厨师为他们准备开水的辛勤甲虫，在他们有理由喜欢的壁炉上，不会比那些拥有费瑟斯通血统的人更受欢迎。他们营养不良，不是因为他们吝啬，而是因为贫穷。所罗门兄弟和简姐妹都很富有，他们所受到的家庭坦诚和完全杜绝虚伪的礼貌，在他们看来，这并不能证明他们的兄弟在庄严地立下遗嘱时会忽视对财富的崇高要求。至少他自己从来没有不自然地被赶出家门，而且他把约拿弟兄、玛莎姐妹和其他人赶走，这似乎并不奇怪，因为他们没有这样的说法。他们知道彼得的格言，钱是好蛋，应该放在温暖的巢里。

But Brother Jonah, Sister Martha, and all the needy exiles, held a different point of view. Probabilities are as various as the faces to be seen at will in fretwork or paper-hangings: every form is there, from Jupiter to Judy, if you only look with creative inclination. To the poorer and least favored it seemed likely that since Peter had done nothing for them in his life, he would remember them at the last. Jonah argued that men liked to make a surprise of their wills, while Martha said that nobody need be surprised if he left the best part of his money to those who least expected it. Also it was not to be thought but that an own brother ‘lying there’ with dropsy in his legs must come to feel that blood was thicker than water, and if he didn’t alter his will, he might have money by him. At any rate some blood-relations should be on the premises and on the watch against those who were hardly relations at all. Such things had been known as forged wills and disputed wills, which seemed to have the golden-hazy advantage of somehow enabling non-legatees to live out of them. Again, those who were no blood-relations might be caught making away with things—and poor Peter ‘lying there’ helpless! Somebody should be on the watch. But in this conclusion they were at one with Solomon and Jane; also, some nephews, nieces, and cousins, arguing with still greater subtilty as to what might be done by a man able to ‘will away’ his property and give himself large treats of oddity, felt in a handsome sort of way that there was a family interest to be attended to, and thought of Stone Court as a place which it would be nothing but right for them to visit. Sister Martha, otherwise Mrs. Cranch, living with some wheeziness in the Chalky Flats, could not undertake the journey; but her son, as being poor Peter’s own nephew, could represent her advantageously, and watch lest his uncle Jonah should make an unfair use of the improbable things which seemed likely to happen. In fact there was a general sense running in the Featherstone blood that everybody must watch everybody else, and that it would be well for everybody else to reflect that the Almighty was watching him.
但约拿弟兄、玛莎姐妹以及所有贫困的流放者却持有不同的观点。概率就像在浮雕或纸挂中随意看到的面孔一样多种多样：只要你带着创造性的倾向去看，从木星到朱迪，每一种形式都在那里。对于那些较贫穷和最不受欢迎的人来说，由于彼得一生中没有为他们做过任何事，所以他最终可能会记住他们。乔纳认为，男人喜欢让自己的遗嘱大吃一惊，而玛莎说，如果他把最好的钱留给那些最意想不到的人，没有人会感到惊讶。更不用说，一个双腿浮肿“躺在那里”的自己的兄弟一定会感到血浓于水，如果他不改变自己的意愿，他可能会得到金钱。无论如何，一些有血缘关系的人应该在场内，并监视那些根本不是亲戚的人。此类东西被称为伪造遗嘱和有争议的遗嘱，它们似乎具有金色朦胧的优势，可以以某种方式使非遗嘱继承人能够依靠它们生活。再一次，那些没有血缘关系的人可能会被抓到偷窃东西——而可怜的彼得“躺在那里”无助！应该有人监视。但在这个结论上，他们与所罗门和简意见一致。而且，一些侄子、侄女和表兄弟姐妹，更加巧妙地争论一个能够“遗弃”他的财产并给自己带来大量奇怪礼物的人可以做什么，他们以一种英俊的方式感到，有一个需要照顾的家庭利益，并认为石苑是一个适合他们参观的地方。玛莎修女，否则就是夫人。 克兰奇生活在白垩平原，有些气喘吁吁，无法承担这次旅行。但她的儿子，作为可怜的彼得自己的侄子，可以代表她有利，并留意以免他的叔叔乔纳不公平地利用似乎可能发生的不可能的事情。事实上，费瑟斯通的血液中流淌着一种普遍的感觉，即每个人都必须监视其他人，而其他人最好能反映出全能者正在监视他。

Thus Stone Court continually saw one or other blood-relation alighting or departing, and Mary Garth had the unpleasant task of carrying their messages to Mr. Featherstone, who would see none of them, and sent her down with the still more unpleasant task of telling them so. As manager of the household she felt bound to ask them in good provincial fashion to stay and eat; but she chose to consult Mrs. Vincy on the point of extra down-stairs consumption now that Mr. Featherstone was laid up.
因此，斯通考特不断地看到一个或另一个血亲下车或离开，而玛丽·加思则承担着将他们的信息传递给费瑟斯通先生的不愉快的任务，而费瑟斯通先生却看不到他们中的任何人，并让她下去执行更不愉快的任务，告诉他们他们如此。作为一家之主，她觉得有必要以乡土风尚请他们留下来吃饭。但由于费瑟斯通先生卧床不起，她决定就楼下额外消费的问题咨询文西太太。

‘Oh, my dear, you must do things handsomely where there’s last illness and a property. God knows, I don’t grudge them every ham in the house—only, save the best for the funeral. Have some stuffed veal always, and a fine cheese in cut. You must expect to keep open house in these last illnesses,’ said liberal Mrs. Vincy, once more of cheerful note and bright plumage.
‘哦，亲爱的，在最后的疾病和财产的情况下，你必须做得漂亮。天知道，我并不吝惜家里的每一根火腿——只是，把最好的火腿留到葬礼上。一定要吃一些酿小牛肉，还有切好的奶酪。自由派文西夫人再次用愉快的语气和鲜艳的羽毛说道。

But some of the visitors alighted and did not depart after the handsome treating to veal and ham. Brother Jonah, for example (there are such unpleasant people in most families; perhaps even in the highest aristocracy there are Brobdingnag specimens, gigantically in debt and bloated at greater expense)—Brother Jonah, I say, having come down in the world, was mainly supported by a calling which he was modest enough not to boast of, though it was much better than swindling either on exchange or turf, but which did not require his presence at Brassing so long as he had a good corner to sit in and a supply of food. He chose the kitchen-corner, partly because he liked it best, and partly because he did not want to sit with Solomon, concerning whom he had a strong brotherly opinion. Seated in a famous arm-chair and in his best suit, constantly within sight of good cheer, he had a comfortable consciousness of being on the premises, mingled with fleeting suggestions of Sunday and the bar at the Green Man; and he informed Mary Garth that he should not go out of reach of his brother Peter while that poor fellow was above ground. The troublesome ones in a family are usually either the wits or the idiots. Jonah was the wit among the Featherstones, and joked with the maid- servants when they came about the hearth, but seemed to consider Miss Garth a suspicious character, and followed her with cold eyes.
但一些游客在享用了美味的小牛肉和火腿后就下车了，并没有离开。例如，约拿弟兄（大多数家庭里都有这样令人讨厌的人；也许甚至在最高贵族中也有大人的样本，负债累累，花费更多）——我说，约拿弟兄在世上落魄后，主要是由他谦虚的职业支撑，虽然这比在交换或地盘上诈骗要好得多，但只要他有一个好角落可以坐，并且有一个好的座位，这并不需要他在布拉辛。食物供应。他选择了厨房的角落，部分是因为他最喜欢它，部分是因为他不想和所罗门坐在一起，因为他对所罗门怀有强烈的兄弟情谊。他坐在一把著名的扶手椅上，穿着他最好的西装，总是在欢呼声中，他有一种在店里的舒适意识，与周日和绿人酒吧的转瞬即逝的暗示混合在一起；他告诉玛丽·加思，当那个可怜的家伙在地面上时，他不应该离开他的兄弟彼得的接触范围。家庭中最麻烦的人，要么是智者，要么是白痴。乔纳是费瑟斯通家族中最聪明的人，当女仆们来到炉边时，他会和他们开玩笑，但似乎认为加斯小姐是个可疑的人物，并用冷漠的目光跟着她。

Mary would have borne this one pair of eyes with comparative ease, but unfortunately there was young Cranch, who, having come all the way from the Chalky Flats to represent his mother and watch his uncle Jonah, also felt it his duty to stay and to sit chiefly in the kitchen to give his uncle company. Young Cranch was not exactly the balancing point between the wit and the idiot,— verging slightly towards the latter type, and squinting so as to leave everything in doubt about his sentiments except that they were not of a forcible character. When Mary Garth entered the kitchen and Mr. Jonah Featherstone began to follow her with his cold detective eyes, young Cranch turning his head in the same direction seemed to insist on it that she should remark how he was squinting, as if he did it with design, like the gypsies when Borrow read the New Testament to them. This was rather too much for poor Mary; sometimes it made her bilious, sometimes it upset her gravity. One day that she had an opportunity she could not resist describing the kitchen scene to Fred, who would not be hindered from immediately going to see it, affecting simply to pass through. But no sooner did he face the four eyes than he had to rush through the nearest door which happened to lead to the dairy, and there under the high roof and among the pans he gave way to laughter which made a hollow resonance perfectly audible in the kitchen. He fled by another doorway, but Mr. Jonah, who had not before seen Fred’s white complexion, long legs, and pinched delicacy of face, prepared many sarcasms in which these points of appearance were wittily combined with the lowest moral attributes.
玛丽本来可以相对轻松地忍受这一双眼睛，但不幸的是，年轻的克兰奇，他从白垩平原远道而来，代表他的母亲，看着他的叔叔乔纳，也觉得他有责任留下来，照顾他的父亲。主要坐在厨房里陪伴他的叔叔。年轻的克兰奇并不完全是机智和白痴之间的平衡点——稍微接近后一种类型，他眯着眼睛，以便让他的情感中的一切都变得可疑，除了它们不具有强迫性的性格。当玛丽·加斯走进厨房，乔纳·费瑟斯通先生开始用他冰冷的侦探般的目光跟着她时，年轻的克兰奇把头转向同一个方向，似乎坚持要求她应该注意到他是如何眯着眼睛的，就好像他是用眯着眼睛做的那样。设计，就像博罗给吉普赛人读《新约》一样。这对可怜的玛丽来说实在是太难以承受了。有时这让她暴躁，有时又扰乱了她的严肃性。有一天，她一有机会就情不自禁地向弗雷德描述了厨房里的情景，而弗雷德则毫不犹豫地立即去看，假装只是路过。但他一面对那四只眼睛，就必须冲进最近的一扇门，这扇门恰好通向乳品店，在高高的屋顶下，在平底锅之间，他发出了笑声，在天空中完全可以听到空洞的共鸣。厨房。他从另一个门口逃走了，但乔纳先生从未见过弗雷德的白皙肤色、长腿和精致的脸庞，他准备了许多讽刺，将这些外表特征与最低级的道德品质巧妙地结合在一起。

‘Why, Tom, YOU don’t wear such gentlemanly trousers— you haven’t got half such fine long legs,’ said Jonah to his nephew, winking at the same time, to imply that there was something more in these statements than their undeniableness. Tom looked at his legs, but left it uncertain whether he preferred his moral advantages to a more vicious length of limb and reprehensible gentility of trouser.
“为什么，汤姆，你不穿这么绅士的裤子——你连这么细长的腿都不到，”乔纳对他的侄子说道，同时眨了眨眼睛，暗示这些话里有比他们的表态更重要的东西。不可否认。汤姆看着他的腿，但不确定他是否更喜欢自己的道德优势，而不是更恶毒的肢体长度和应受谴责的优雅裤子。

In the large wainscoted parlor too there were constantly pairs of eyes on the watch, and own relatives eager to be ‘sitters-up.’ Many came, lunched, and departed, but Brother Solomon and the lady who had been Jane Featherstone for twenty-five years before she was Mrs. Waule found it good to be there every day for hoars, without other calculable occupation than that of observing the cunning Mary Garth (who was so deep that she could be found out in nothing) and giving occasional dry wrinkly indications of crying— as if capable of torrents in a wetter season—at the thought that they were not allowed to go into Mr. Featherstone’s room. For the old man’s dislike of his own family seemed to get stronger as he got less able to amuse himself by saying biting things to them. Too languid to sting, he had the more venom refluent in his blood.
在宽大的壁板客厅里，也不断有一双双眼睛在值班，还有自己的亲戚渴望成为“看守者”。许多人来了，吃过午饭，然后离开了，但是所罗门弟兄和那位二十年来一直是简·费瑟斯通的女士——五年前，她成为沃勒夫人，她发现每天在那里度过白日梦是件好事，除了观察狡猾的玛丽·加思（她深陷其中，什么都看不见）和偶尔给她一些干燥的皱纹之外，没有其他可计算的工作。一想到他们不被允许进入费瑟斯通先生的房间，他们就流泪了——就像在潮湿的季节里会流泪一样。因为当老人越来越无法通过对家人说尖酸刻薄的话来取乐时，他对自己家人的厌恶似乎变得越来越强烈。他太虚弱了，无法蜇人，血液中的毒液更加回流。

Not fully believing the message sent through Mary Garth, they had presented themselves together within the door of the bedroom, both in black—Mrs. Waule having a white handkerchief partially unfolded in her hand—and both with faces in a sort of half-mourning purple; while Mrs. Vincy with her pink cheeks and pink ribbons flying was actually administering a cordial to their own brother, and the light-complexioned Fred, his short hair curling as might be expected in a gambler’s, was lolling at his ease in a large chair.
由于不完全相信玛丽·加斯传达的信息，他们一起出现在卧室的门内，两人都穿着黑色衣服——玛丽·加斯太太。沃勒手里拿着半展开的白色手帕——两人的脸都是半哀伤的紫色；而文西夫人，粉红的脸颊和飘扬的粉红丝带，实际上正在给他们自己的兄弟喂药，而肤色浅的弗雷德，他的短发像赌徒一样卷曲，正悠闲地躺在一张大椅子上。

Old Featherstone no sooner caught sight of these funereal figures appearing in spite of his orders than rage came to strengthen him more successfully than the cordial. He was propped up on a bed-rest, and always had his gold-headed stick lying by him. He seized it now and swept it backwards and forwards in as large an area as he could, apparently to ban these ugly spectres, crying in a hoarse sort of screech—
老费瑟斯通一看到这些葬礼人物不顾他的命令出现，他的愤怒比热情更成功地增强了他的力量。他靠在床上，身边总是放着金头手杖。他现在抓住了它，在尽可能大的范围内来回扫动，显然是为了禁止这些丑恶的幽灵，发出嘶哑的尖叫声——

‘Back, back, Mrs. Waule! Back, Solomon!’
“回来，回来，沃勒夫人！回来吧，所罗门！’

‘Oh, Brother. Peter,’ Mrs. Waule began—but Solomon put his hand before her repressingly. He was a large-cheeked man, nearly seventy, with small furtive eyes, and was not only of much blander temper but thought himself much deeper than his brother Peter; indeed not likely to be deceived in any of his fellow-men, inasmuch as they could not well be more greedy and deceitful than he suspected them of being. Even the invisible powers, he thought, were likely to be soothed by a bland parenthesis here and there—coming from a man of property, who might have been as impious as others.
‘噢，兄弟。 “彼得，”沃勒夫人开始说道，但所罗门压抑地把手放在她面前。他是个大脸颊的男人，快七十岁了，一双小眼睛鬼鬼祟祟的，不仅脾气温和得多，而且认为自己比他的兄弟彼得深沉得多。事实上，他不太可能被他的任何同胞所欺骗，因为他们不可能比他所怀疑的更加贪婪和欺骗。他认为，即使是无形的力量，也可能会被这里或那里的温和括号所抚慰——来自一个有钱人，他可能和其他人一样不虔诚。

‘Brother Peter,’ he said, in a wheedling yet gravely official tone, ‘It’s nothing but right I should speak to you about the Three Crofts and the Manganese. The Almighty knows what I’ve got on my mind—‘
“彼得兄弟，”他用一种哄骗而又严肃的官方语气说道，“我应该和你谈谈三克罗夫特和锰人的事，这是正确的。全能的上帝知道我在想什么——’

‘Then he knows more than I want to know,’ said Peter, laying down his stick with a show of truce which had a threat in it too, for he reversed the stick so as to make the gold handle a club in case of closer fighting, and looked hard at Solomon’s bald head.
“那么他知道的比我想知道的还要多，”彼得说着，放下了他的棍子，做出了休战的姿态，这也有一种威胁，因为他扭转了棍子的方向，以便在接近的情况下使金柄成为棍棒。战斗着，狠狠地看着所罗门的光头。

‘There’s things you might repent of, Brother, for want of speaking to me,’ said Solomon, not advancing, however. ‘I could sit up with you to-night, and Jane with me, willingly, and you might take your own time to speak, or let me speak.’
“兄弟，有些事情你可能会因为没有跟我说话而后悔，”所罗门说道，但没有继续前进。 “今晚我可以和你坐在一起，简和我一起，很乐意，你可以慢慢地说话，或者让我说话。”

‘Yes, I shall take my own time—you needn’t offer me yours,’ said Peter.
“是的，我会慢慢来——你不必给我你的时间，”彼得说。

‘But you can’t take your own time to die in, Brother,’ began Mrs. Waule, with her usual woolly tone. ‘And when you lie speechless you may be tired of having strangers about you, and you may think of me and my children’—but here her voice broke under the touching thought which she was attributing to her speechless brother; the mention of ourselves being naturally affecting.
“但是你不能慢慢地死去，兄弟，”沃勒夫人用她一贯的毛茸茸的语气开始说道。 “当你说不出话来的时候，你可能厌倦了有陌生人在你身边，你可能会想到我和我的孩子们”——但说到这里，她的声音因她把这归因于她无言以对的哥哥的感人想法而破裂了。提到我们自己自然会产生影响。

‘No, I shan’t,’ said old Featherstone, contradictiously. ‘I shan’t think of any of you. I’ve made my will, I tell you, I’ve made my will.’ Here he turned his head towards Mrs. Vincy, and swallowed some more of his cordial.
“不，我不会，”老费瑟斯通矛盾地说。 “我不会想到你们中的任何一个人。我已经立下了我的遗嘱，我告诉你，我已经立下了我的遗嘱。”说到这里，他把头转向文西夫人，又咽了一些甜酒。

‘Some people would be ashamed to fill up a place belonging by rights to others,’ said Mrs. Waule, turning her narrow eyes in the same direction.
“有些人会羞于填补本来属于别人的位置，”沃勒夫人说，把她狭长的眼睛转向同一个方向。

‘Oh, sister,’ said Solomon, with ironical softness, ‘you and me are not fine, and handsome, and clever enough: we must be humble and let smart people push themselves before us.’
“噢，姐姐，”所罗门语气中带着讽刺的温柔，“你和我都不够优秀、不够英俊、不够聪明：我们必须谦虚，让聪明人在我们面前表现自己。”

Fred’s spirit could not bear this: rising and looking at Mr. Featherstone, he said, ‘Shall my mother and I leave the room, sir, that you may be alone with your friends?’
弗雷德的精神无法忍受这一点：他站起来看着费瑟斯通先生，说道：“先生，我和我的母亲可以离开房间吗？这样你就可以单独和你的朋友们在一起了？”

‘Sit down, I tell you,’ said old Featherstone, snappishly. ‘Stop where you are. Good-by, Solomon,’ he added, trying to wield his stick again, but failing now that he had reversed the handle. ‘Good-by, Mrs. Waule. Don’t you come again.’
“坐下，我告诉你，”老费瑟斯通没好气地说。 ‘停在原地。再见，所罗门，”他补充道，试图再次挥舞他的手杖，但现在他已经扭转了手柄，所以失败了。 “再见，沃勒夫人。”你别再来了。

‘I shall be down-stairs, Brother, whether or no,’ said Solomon. ‘I shall do my duty, and it remains to be seen what the Almighty will allow.’
“无论是否，我都会在楼下，兄弟，”所罗门说。 “我将履行我的职责，至于全能的上帝会允许什么，还有待观察。”

‘Yes, in property going out of families,’ said Mrs. Waule, in continuation,—‘and where there’s steady young men to carry on. But I pity them who are not such, and I pity their mothers. Good-by, Brother Peter.’
“是的，财产从家庭手中流出，”沃勒夫人继续说道，“还有稳定的年轻人可以继续生活。”但我怜悯那些不是这样的人，我怜悯他们的母亲。再见，彼得弟兄。

‘Remember, I’m the eldest after you, Brother, and prospered from the first, just as you did, and have got land already by the name of Featherstone,’ said Solomon, relying much on that reflection, as one which might be suggested in the watches of the night. ‘But I bid you good-by for the present.’
“记住，我是你之后最年长的，兄弟，从一开始就很繁荣，就像你一样，并且已经拥有了一块名为费瑟斯通的土地，”所罗门说，很大程度上依赖于这种反思，因为这可能是一种反思。夜更时建议。 “但我现在要跟你告别了。”

Their exit was hastened by their seeing old Mr. Featherstone pull his wig on each side and shut his eyes with his mouth-widening grimace, as if he were determined to be deaf and blind.
他们加快了离开速度，因为他们看到老费瑟斯通先生把假发拉到两边，闭上眼睛，张大嘴巴，好像他决心要聋又瞎。

None the less they came to Stone Court daily and sat below at the post of duty, sometimes carrying on a slow dialogue in an undertone in which the observation and response were so far apart, that any one hearing them might have imagined himself listening to speaking automata, in some doubt whether the ingenious mechanism would really work, or wind itself up for a long time in order to stick and be silent. Solomon and Jane would have been sorry to be quick: what that led to might be seen on the other side of the wall in the person of Brother Jonah.
尽管如此，他们每天都来到石庭，坐在下面的值班岗位上，有时低声进行缓慢的对话，其中的观察和反应相距甚远，任何听到他们的人都可能想象自己在听他们说话自动机，有些人怀疑这种巧妙的机制是否真的有效，或者为了坚持并保持沉默而长时间缠绕自己。所罗门和简会很抱歉这么快：这导致的后果可能会在墙的另一边约拿弟兄身上看到。

But their watch in the wainscoted parlor was sometimes varied by the presence of other guests from far or near. Now that Peter Featherstone was up-stairs, his property could be discussed with all that local enlightenment to be found on the spot: some rural and Middlemarch neighbors expressed much agreement with the family and sympathy with their interest against the Vincys, and feminine visitors were even moved to tears, in conversation with Mrs. Waule, when they recalled the fact that they themselves had been disappointed in times past by codicils and marriages for spite on the part of ungrateful elderly gentlemen, who, it might have been supposed, had been spared for something better. Such conversation paused suddenly, like an organ when the bellows are let drop, if Mary Garth came into the room; and all eyes were turned on her as a possible legatee, or one who might get access to iron chests.
但他们在壁板客厅里的值班有时会因远近其他客人的出现而改变。既然彼得·费瑟斯通在楼上，他的财产就可以与当地所有当场发现的启发进行讨论：一些乡村和米德尔马契的邻居表示非常同意这个家庭，并对他们反对文西家族的兴趣表示同情，女性访客也被在与沃勒夫人交谈时，当他们回忆起自己过去曾因忘恩负义的老绅士们的遗嘱和婚姻而感到失望的事实时，他们甚至感动得流下了眼泪，而人们可能认为，他们是为了更好的事情而腾出时间。如果玛丽·加思走进房间，这样的谈话就会突然停顿，就像风琴的风箱被放下一样。所有的目光都集中在她身上，认为她是一个可能的受遗赠者，或者是一个可能获得铁箱的人。

But the younger men who were relatives or connections of the family, were disposed to admire her in this problematic light, as a girl who showed much conduct, and who among all the chances that were flying might turn out to be at least a moderate prize. Hence she had her share of compliments and polite attentions.
但是作为亲戚或家庭关系的年轻男子却倾向于从这种有问题的角度来钦佩她，因为她是一个表现出很多行为的女孩，并且在所有飞行的机会中，她可能至少会获得中等奖励。因此，她得到了一些赞美和礼貌的关注。

Especially from Mr. Borthrop Trumbull, a distinguished bachelor and auctioneer of those parts, much concerned in the sale of land and cattle: a public character, indeed, whose name was seen on widely distributed placards, and who might reasonably be sorry for those who did not know of him. He was second cousin to Peter Featherstone, and had been treated by him with more amenity than any other relative, being useful in matters of business; and in that programme of his funeral which the old man had himself dictated, he had been named as a Bearer. There was no odious cupidity in Mr. Borthrop Trumbull— nothing more than a sincere sense of his own merit, which, he was aware, in case of rivalry might tell against competitors; so that if Peter Featherstone, who so far as he, Trumbull, was concerned, had behaved like as good a soul as ever breathed, should have done anything handsome by him, all he could say was, that he had never fished and fawned, but had advised him to the best of his experience, which now extended over twenty years from the time of his apprenticeship at fifteen, and was likely to yield a knowledge of no surreptitious kind. His admiration was far from being confined to himself, but was accustomed professionally as well as privately to delight in estimating things at a high rate. He was an amateur of superior phrases, and never used poor language without immediately correcting himself— which was fortunate, as he was rather loud, and given to predominate, standing or walking about frequently, pulling down his waistcoat with the air of a man who is very much of his own opinion, trimming himself rapidly with his fore-finger, and marking each new series in these movements by a busy play with his large seals. There was occasionally a little fierceness in his demeanor, but it was directed chiefly against false opinion, of which there is so much to correct in the world that a man of some reading and experience necessarily has his patience tried. He felt that the Featherstone family generally was of limited understanding, but being a man of the world and a public character, took everything as a matter of course, and even went to converse with Mr. Jonah and young Cranch in the kitchen, not doubting that he had impressed the latter greatly by his leading questions concerning the Chalky Flats. If anybody had observed that Mr. Borthrop Trumbull, being an auctioneer, was bound to know the nature of everything, he would have smiled and trimmed himself silently with the sense that he came pretty near that. On the whole, in an auctioneering way, he was an honorable man, not ashamed of his business, and feeling that ‘the celebrated Peel, now Sir Robert,’ if introduced to him, would not fail to recognize his importance.
尤其是来自博思罗普·特朗布尔先生，他是一位杰出的单身汉和这些地区的拍卖师，非常关心土地和牲畜的出售：事实上，他是一个公众人物，他的名字出现在广泛分发的标语牌上，他可能会合理地为那些不认识他。他是彼得·费瑟斯通的远房表弟，受到彼得·费瑟斯通的待见比任何其他亲戚都更加殷勤，在生意上也很有帮助。在老人亲自指定的葬礼程序中，他被任命为持票人。博思罗普·特朗布尔先生并没有令人厌恶的贪婪——只不过是对自己优点的真诚认识，他知道，在竞争的情况下，这种认识可能会打击竞争对手；因此，如果彼得·费瑟斯通，就他，特朗布尔而言，表现得像一个曾经呼吸过的好灵魂，应该为他做任何漂亮的事，他只能说，他从来没有钓鱼和阿谀奉承，但他根据自己的经验为他提供了建议，从他十五岁的学徒生涯算起，现在已经有二十多年的经验了，而且很可能会产生一些秘密的知识。他的钦佩远不仅限于他自己，而且无论在职业上还是在私下里，他都习惯于以高速度估计事物。他是个高雅用语的业余爱好者，从来不说粗俗的语言而没有立即纠正自己——这很幸运，因为他声音很大，而且习惯于占主导地位，经常站着或走来走去，拉下背心，一副男人的样子。他非常有自己的观点，用食指快速修剪自己，并通过忙着玩弄他的大印章来标记这些乐章中的每个新系列。 他的举止中偶尔有一点凶狠，但主要是针对错误的观点，世界上有太多错误的观点需要纠正，因此一个有一定阅历和经验的人必然会受到考验。他觉得费瑟斯通一家普遍理解力有限，但作为一个见多识广、公众人物的人，把一切都视为理所当然，甚至去厨房与乔纳先生和小克兰奇交谈，毫不怀疑。他关于白垩平原的主要问题给后者留下了深刻的印象。如果有人发现博思罗普·特朗布尔先生作为一名拍卖师，必然了解一切事物的本质，他一定会微笑着，默默地修剪自己，因为他觉得自己已经非常接近这一点了。总的来说，从拍卖的角度来看，他是一个值得尊敬的人，并不为自己的生意感到羞耻，并且觉得“著名的皮尔，现在的罗伯特爵士”如果被介绍给他，一定会认识到他的重要性。

‘I don’t mind if I have a slice of that ham, and a glass of that ale, Miss Garth, if you will allow me,’ he said, coming into the parlor at half-past eleven, after having had the exceptional privilege of seeing old Featherstone, and standing with his back to the fire between Mrs. Waule and Solomon.
“加思小姐，如果你允许的话，我不介意吃一片火腿和一杯麦芽酒，”他在喝完这道特别的酒后，十一点半走进客厅说道。有幸见到老费瑟斯通，并背对着火站在沃勒夫人和所罗门之间。

‘It’s not necessary for you to go out;—let me ring the bell.’
“你没必要出去；——让我按一下门铃。”

‘Thank you,’ said Mary, ‘I have an errand.’
“谢谢你，”玛丽说，“我有事。”

‘Well, Mr. Trumbull, you’re highly favored,’ said Mrs. Waule.
“嗯，特朗布尔先生，你很受欢迎，”沃勒夫人说。

‘What! seeing the old man?’ said the auctioneer, playing with his seals dispassionately. ‘Ah, you see he has relied on me considerably.’ Here he pressed his lips together, and frowned meditatively.
'什么！ “看到老头子了吗？”拍卖师冷静地摆弄着自己的印章说道。 “啊，你看他对我还是挺依赖的。”说到这里，他抿唇，皱眉若有所思。

‘Might anybody ask what their brother has been saying?’ said Solomon, in a soft tone of humility, in which he had a sense of luxurious cunning, he being a rich man and not in need of it.
“有人可以问一下他们的兄弟在说什么吗？”所罗门用温和谦逊的语气说道，他的语气里有一种奢华狡猾的感觉，他是一个富人，而不需要它。

‘Oh yes, anybody may ask,’ said Mr. Trumbull, with loud and good-humored though cutting sarcasm. ‘Anybody may interrogate. Any one may give their remarks an interrogative turn,’ he continued, his sonorousness rising with his style. ‘This is constantly done by good speakers, even when they anticipate no answer. It is what we call a figure of speech—speech at a high figure, as one may say.’ The eloquent auctioneer smiled at his own ingenuity.
“哦，是的，任何人都可能会问，”特朗布尔先生大声说道，语气幽默，但却带有尖锐的讽刺。 ‘任何人都可以审问。任何人都可以对自己的言论提出质疑，”他继续说道，声音随着他的风格而增强。 “优秀的演讲者经常这样做，即使他们预计不会得到答案。这就是我们所说的修辞手法——有人可能会说，这是一种高调的修辞。”能言善辩的拍卖师对自己的聪明才智微笑起来。

‘I shouldn’t be sorry to hear he’d remembered you, Mr. Trumbull,’ said Solomon. ‘I never was against the deserving. It’s the undeserving I’m against.’
“听到他还记得你，我不应该感到遗憾，特朗布尔先生，”所罗门说。 “我从来不反对应得的。我反对的是那些不值得的人。

‘Ah, there it is, you see, there it is,’ said Mr. Trumbull, significantly. ‘It can’t be denied that undeserving people have been legatees, and even residuary legatees. It is so, with testamentary dispositions.’ Again he pursed up his lips and frowned a little.
“啊，就在那里，你看，就在那里，”特朗布尔先生意味深长地说。 “不可否认的是，不值得的人成为了受遗赠人，甚至是剩余的受遗赠人。确实如此，有遗嘱。”他又抿起嘴唇，皱起眉头。

‘Do you mean to say for certain, Mr. Trumbull, that my brother has left his land away from our family?’ said Mrs. Waule, on whom, as an unhopeful woman, those long words had a depressing effect.
“你的意思是肯定地说，特朗布尔先生，我哥哥把他的土地从我们家手中夺走了？”沃勒夫人说，作为一个不抱希望的女人，这些长话对她产生了令人沮丧的影响。

‘A man might as well turn his land into charity land at once as leave it to some people,’ observed Solomon, his sister’s question having drawn no answer.
所罗门评论说：“一个人最好立即把他的土地变成慈善土地，而不是将其留给某些人。”他妹妹的问题没有得到答案。

‘What, Blue-Coat land?’ said Mrs. Waule, again. ‘Oh, Mr. Trumbull, you never can mean to say that. It would be flying in the face of the Almighty that’s prospered him.’
“什么，蓝衣之地？”沃勒太太又问道。 “哦，特朗布尔先生，你绝不会有意这么说。这将与使他繁荣昌盛的全能者背道而驰。

While Mrs. Waule was speaking, Mr. Borthrop Trumbull walked away from the fireplace towards the window, patrolling with his fore-finger round the inside of his stock, then along his whiskers and the curves of his hair. He now walked to Miss Garth’s work-table, opened a book which lay there and read the title aloud with pompous emphasis as if he were offering it for sale:
当沃勒夫人说话时，博思罗普·特朗布尔先生从壁炉边朝窗户走去，用食指在他的股票内侧巡视，然后沿着他的胡须和头发的曲线巡视。现在他走到加斯小姐的工作台前，打开放在那里的一本书，大声念出书名，语气浮夸，就好像他要出售这本书一样：

‘Anne of Geierstein’ (pronounced Jeersteen) or the ‘Maiden of the Mist, by the author of Waverley.’’ Then turning the page, he began sonorously—‘The course of four centuries has well-nigh elapsed since the series of events which are related in the following chapters took place on the Continent.’ He pronounced the last truly admirable word with the accent on the last syllable, not as unaware of vulgar usage, but feeling that this novel delivery enhanced the sonorous beauty which his reading had given to the whole.
“盖尔斯坦的安妮”（发音为 Jeersteen）或“《雾中少女》，作者《韦弗利》。”然后翻过这一页，他开始大声说道——“自从这一系列事件发生以来，四个世纪的时间已经过去了他在最后一个音节上重音发音了最后一个真正令人钦佩的词，并不是没有意识到粗俗的用法，而是觉得这种新颖的表达增强了他的阅读所具有的铿锵之美。给予整体。

And now the servant came in with the tray, so that the moments for answering Mrs. Waule’s question had gone by safely, while she and Solomon, watching Mr. Trumbull’s movements, were thinking that high learning interfered sadly with serious affairs. Mr. Borthrop Trumbull really knew nothing about old Featherstone’s will; but he could hardly have been brought to declare any ignorance unless he had been arrested for misprision of treason.
现在仆人端着托盘走了进来，这样回答沃勒夫人问题的时间就安全地过去了，而她和所罗门则注视着特朗布尔先生的一举一动，心想高深的学识可悲地妨碍了严肃的事务。博思罗普·特朗布尔先生确实对老费瑟斯通的遗嘱一无所知。但除非他因叛国罪而被捕，否则很难说他对此事一无所知。

‘I shall take a mere mouthful of ham and a glass of ale,’ he said, reassuringly. ‘As a man with public business, I take a snack when I can. I will back this ham,’ he added, after swallowing some morsels with alarming haste, ‘against any ham in the three kingdoms. In my opinion it is better than the hams at Freshitt Hall— and I think I am a tolerable judge.’
“我只吃一口火腿和一杯麦芽酒，”他安慰道。 “作为一名公务人员，我会尽可能吃点零食。我会支持这支火腿，”他以惊人的匆忙吞下一些火腿后补充道，“反对这三个王国的任何火腿。在我看来，它比弗雷希特大厅的火腿更好——而且我认为我是一个还算可以的评判者。

‘Some don’t like so much sugar in their hams,’ said Mrs. Waule. ‘But my poor brother would always have sugar.’
“有些人不喜欢火腿里放太多糖，”沃勒夫人说。 “但我可怜的兄弟总是有糖。”

‘If any person demands better, he is at liberty to do so; but, God bless me, what an aroma! I should be glad to buy in that quality, I know. There is some gratification to a gentleman’— here Mr. Trumbull’s voice conveyed an emotional remonstrance— ‘in having this kind of ham set on his table.’
“如果有人要求更好，他可以自由地这样做；但是，上帝保佑我，多么芬芳啊！我知道，我应该很高兴购买这种品质的产品。对于一位绅士来说，”——特朗布尔先生的声音在这里传达了一种情感上的抗议——“把这种火腿摆在他的桌子上。”

He pushed aside his plate, poured out his glass of ale and drew his chair a little forward, profiting by the occasion to look at the inner side of his legs, which he stroked approvingly— Mr. Trumbull having all those less frivolous airs and gestures which distinguish the predominant races of the north.
他把盘子推到一边，倒出啤酒杯，把椅子稍微向前拉了一点，趁这个机会看看自己的腿内侧，他赞许地抚摸着腿——特朗布尔先生的神态和手势都不那么轻浮了。这区分了北方的主要种族。

‘You have an interesting work there, I see, Miss Garth,’ he observed, when Mary re-entered. ‘It is by the author of ‘Waverley’: that is Sir Walter Scott. I have bought one of his works myself— a very nice thing, a very superior publication, entitled ‘Ivanhoe.’ You will not get any writer to beat him in a hurry, I think— he will not, in my opinion, be speedily surpassed. I have just been reading a portion at the commencement of ‘Anne of Jeersteen.’ It commences well.’ (Things never began with Mr. Borthrop Trumbull: they al ways commenced, both in private life and on his handbills.) ‘You are a reader, I see. Do you subscribe to our Middlemarch library?’
“我明白了，加思小姐，你那里的工作很有趣，”当玛丽重新进来时，他说道。 “这是《韦弗利》的作者：沃尔特·斯科特爵士。我自己买了他的一本作品——一件非常好的东西，一本非常优秀的出版物，名为《艾芬豪》。你不会让任何作家很快打败他，我想——在我看来，他不会很快超越了。我刚刚读了《吉尔斯汀的安妮》的开头部分。开头很好。”（事情从来不是从博思罗普·特朗布尔先生开始的：它们总是从私人生活和他的传单上开始。）“你是读者，我明白了。你订阅我们的米德尔马奇图书馆吗？

‘No,’ said Mary. ‘Mr. Fred Vincy brought this book.’
“不，”玛丽说。 '先生。弗雷德·文西带来了这本书。

‘I am a great bookman myself,’ returned Mr. Trumbull. ‘I have no less than two hundred volumes in calf, and I flatter myself they are well selected. Also pictures by Murillo, Rubens, Teniers, Titian, Vandyck, and others. I shall be happy to lend you any work you like to mention, Miss Garth.’
“我自己就是一位伟大的书家，”特朗布尔先生回答道。 “我有不少于两百卷小牛皮，我自以为它们都是精挑细选的。还有穆里略、鲁本斯、特尼尔斯、提香、凡戴克等人的作品。加斯小姐，我很乐意借给你任何你想提到的工作。

‘I am much obliged,’ said Mary, hastening away again, ‘but I have little time for reading.’
“我非常感激，”玛丽说着又匆匆离去，“但我没有时间读书。”

‘I should say my brother has done something for HER in his will,’ said Mr. Solomon, in a very low undertone, when she had shut the door behind her, pointing with his head towards the absent Mary.
“我应该说，我哥哥按照他的遗嘱为她做了一些事情，”当她关上身后的门时，所罗门先生用头指着不在场的玛丽，低声说道。

‘His first wife was a poor match for him, though,’ said Mrs. Waule. ‘She brought him nothing: and this young woman is only her niece,— and very proud. And my brother has always paid her wage.’
“不过，他的第一任妻子并不适合他，”沃勒夫人说。 “她什么也没给他带来：这个年轻女子只是她的侄女——而且非常自豪。我哥哥一直支付她的工资。

‘A sensible girl though, in my opinion,’ said Mr. Trumbull, finishing his ale and starting up with an emphatic adjustment of his waistcoat. ‘I have observed her when she has been mixing medicine in drops. She minds what she is doing, sir. That is a great point in a woman, and a great point for our friend up-stairs, poor dear old soul. A man whose life is of any value should think of his wife as a nurse: that is what I should do, if I married; and I believe I have lived single long enough not to make a mistake in that line. Some men must marry to elevate themselves a little, but when I am in need of that, I hope some one will tell me so—I hope some individual will apprise me of the fact. I wish you good morning, Mrs. Waule. Good morning, Mr. Solomon. I trust we shall meet under less melancholy auspices.’
“在我看来，她是个懂事的女孩。”特朗布尔先生喝完啤酒，开始大力调整背心。 “当她将药物混合成滴剂时，我观察过她。她很介意自己在做什么，先生。这是一个女人的伟大之处，也是我们楼上的朋友，可怜的亲爱的老灵魂的伟大之处。一个生命有价值的男人应该把他的妻子视为一名护士：如果我结婚了，这就是我应该做的；我相信我已经单身了足够长的时间，不会在这方面犯错误。有些男人必须结婚才能提升自己一点，但当我需要的时候，我希望有人告诉我——我希望有人告诉我这个事实。祝你早上好，沃勒夫人。早上好，所罗门先生。我相信我们会在不那么忧郁的气氛下见面。

When Mr. Trumbull had departed with a fine bow, Solomon, leaning forward, observed to his sister, ‘You may depend, Jane, my brother has left that girl a lumping sum.’
当特朗布尔先生鞠了一躬离开时，所罗门身体前倾，对他的妹妹说：“你可以放心，简，我哥哥给那个女孩留下了一笔钱。”

‘Anybody would think so, from the way Mr. Trumbull talks,’ said Jane. Then, after a pause, ‘He talks as if my daughters wasn’t to be trusted to give drops.’
“从特朗布尔先生说话的方式来看，任何人都会这么认为，”简说。然后，停顿了一下，“他说话的语气就好像我的女儿们不值得信任去滴药一样。”

‘Auctioneers talk wild,’ said Solomon. ‘Not but what Trumbull has made money.’
“拍卖师们胡言乱语，”所罗门说。 “不是特朗布尔赚到的钱。”

CHAPTER XXXIII
第三十三章

‘Close up his eyes and draw the curtain close;
‘闭上眼睛，拉上窗帘；

And let us all to meditation.’
让我们大家一起冥想。

—2 Henry VI.
——2 亨利六世。

That night after twelve o’clock Mary Garth relieved the watch in Mr. Featherstone’s room, and sat there alone through the small hours. She often chose this task, in which she found some pleasure, notwithstanding the old man’s testiness whenever he demanded her attentions. There were intervals in which she could sit perfectly still, enjoying the outer stillness and the subdued light. The red fire with its gently audible movement seemed like a solemn existence calmly independent of the petty passions, the imbecile desires, the straining after worthless uncertainties, which were daily moving her contempt. Mary was fond of her own thoughts, and could amuse herself well sitting in twilight with her hands in her lap; for, having early had strong reason to believe that things were not likely to be arranged for her peculiar satisfaction, she wasted no time in astonishment and annoyance at that fact. And she had already come to take life very much as a comedy in which she had a proud, nay, a generous resolution not to act the mean or treacherous part. Mary might have become cynical if she had not had parents whom she honored, and a well of affectionate gratitude within her, which was all the fuller because she had learned to make no unreasonable claims.
那天晚上十二点过后，玛丽·加思在费瑟斯通先生的房间里值班，独自坐在那里度过了凌晨。她经常选择这项任务，尽管每当老人需要她的关注时，她都会感到很暴躁，但她在其中找到了一些乐趣。有时她可以一动不动地坐着，享受外面的寂静和柔和的光线。红色的火焰伴随着轻柔可闻的运动，似乎是一种庄严的存在，平静地独立于琐碎的激情、愚蠢的欲望、无价值的不确定性之后的紧张，这些每天都让她轻蔑。玛丽喜欢自己的想法，坐在暮色中，双手放在膝上，可以自娱自乐。因为她很早就有充分的理由相信事情的安排不可能令她特别满意，因此她立即对这一事实感到惊讶和恼怒。她已经开始把生活当作一部喜剧，在这部喜剧中，她有一个自豪的，不，是慷慨的决心，不扮演卑鄙或奸诈的角色。如果玛丽没有她所尊敬的父母，也没有内心充满深情的感激之情，她可能会变得愤世嫉俗，因为她学会了不提出无理要求，这种感激之情就更加充分。

She sat to-night revolving, as she was wont, the scenes of the day, her lips often curling with amusement at the oddities to which her fancy added fresh drollery: people were so ridiculous with their illusions, carrying their fool’s caps unawares, thinking their own lies opaque while everybody else’s were transparent, making themselves exceptions to everything, as if when all the world looked yellow under a lamp they alone were rosy. Yet there were some illusions under Mary’s eyes which were not quite comic to her. She was secretly convinced, though she had no other grounds than her close observation of old Featherstone’s nature, that in spite of his fondness for having the Vincys about him, they were as likely to be disappointed as any of the relations whom he kept at a distance. She had a good deal of disdain for Mrs. Vincy’s evident alarm lest she and Fred should be alone together, but it did not hinder her from thinking anxiously of the way in which Fred would be affected, if it should turn out that his uncle had left him as poor as ever. She could make a butt of Fred when he was present, but she did not enjoy his follies when he was absent.
今晚，她坐在那里，像往常一样，回想白天的场景，她的嘴唇常常因她的幻想增添了新的滑稽的奇怪现象而感到有趣地卷起：人们的幻想是如此可笑，不知不觉地带着他们的傻帽，思考他们自己的谎言是不透明的，而其他人的谎言是透明的，使自己成为一切的例外，仿佛当整个世界在灯下显得黄色时，只有他们是玫瑰色的。然而，玛丽的眼睛里却浮现出一些幻觉，这对她来说并不很滑稽。她暗自确信，尽管她除了对老费瑟斯通的性格的密切观察之外没有其他理由，尽管他喜欢文西一家人在他身边，但他们很可能会像他在一个家庭中保持的任何亲戚一样感到失望。距离。文西夫人显然很担心她和弗雷德单独在一起，她对此很不屑，但这并不妨碍她焦急地思考如果弗雷德的叔叔发现了他的叔叔，他会受到怎样的影响。让他一如既往地贫穷。当弗雷德在场时，她可以嘲笑他，但当他不在时，她就不喜欢他的愚蠢行为。

Yet she liked her thoughts: a vigorous young mind not overbalanced by passion, finds a good in making acquaintance with life, and watches its own powers with interest. Mary had plenty of merriment within.
但她喜欢自己的想法：充满活力的年轻头脑，不会被激情冲垮，在熟悉生活中找到好处，并饶有兴趣地观察自己的力量。玛丽内心充满欢乐。

Her thought was not veined by any solemnity or pathos about the old man on the bed: such sentiments are easier to affect than to feel about an aged creature whose life is not visibly anything but a remnant of vices. She had always seen the most disagreeable side of Mr. Featherstone. he was not proud of her, and she was only useful to him. To be anxious about a soul that is always snapping at you must be left to the saints of the earth; and Mary was not one of them. She had never returned him a harsh word, and had waited on him faithfully: that was her utmost. Old Featherstone himself was not in the least anxious about his soul, and had declined to see Mr. Tucker on the subject.
她的思想并没有受到床上老人的任何庄严或悲伤的影响：这种情感比对一个年老的生物更容易产生影响，因为他的生活除了恶习的残余之外什么也看不见。她总是看到费瑟斯通先生最令人讨厌的一面。他并不以她为荣，她只是对他有用而已。为一个总是对你发脾气的灵魂感到焦虑，必须留给世上的圣徒。玛丽不是其中之一。她从来没有对他说过一句严厉的话，忠实地侍候着他，这是她的最大努力。老费瑟斯通本人对自己的灵魂一点也不担心，并拒绝就此事与塔克先生会面。

To-night he had not snapped, and for the first hour or two he lay remarkably still, until at last Mary heard him rattling his bunch of keys against the tin box which he always kept in the bed beside him. About three o’clock he said, with remarkable distinctness, ‘Missy, come here!’
今晚他没有发脾气，头一两个小时他一动不动地躺着，直到最后玛丽听到他把钥匙串敲在他总是放在床边的铁盒上，发出嘎嘎声。大约三点钟，他语气十分清晰地说：“小姐，过来！”

Mary obeyed, and found that he had already drawn the tin box from under the clothes, though he usually asked to have this done for him; and he had selected the key. He now unlocked the box, and, drawing from it another key, looked straight at her with eyes that seemed to have recovered all their sharpness and said, ‘How many of ‘em are in the house?’
玛丽照做了，发现他已经把锡盒从衣服下面拿出来了，尽管他通常要求为他做这件事；他已经选择了钥匙。现在他打开了盒子，从里面拿出另一把钥匙，用似乎恢复了所有锐利的眼睛直视着她，问道：“房子里有多少人？”

‘You mean of your own relations, sir,’ said Mary, well used to the old man’s way of speech. He nodded slightly and she went on.
“您指的是您自己的亲戚，先生。”玛丽说，她已经习惯了老人的说话方式。他轻轻地点点头，她继续说道。

‘Mr. Jonah Featherstone and young Cranch are sleeping here.’
'先生。乔纳·费瑟斯通和年轻的克兰奇就睡在这里。

‘Oh ay, they stick, do they? and the rest—they come every day, I’ll warrant—Solomon and Jane, and all the young uns? They come peeping, and counting and casting up?’
‘哦，是的，他们坚持住了，是吗？剩下的人——他们每天都会来，我保证——所罗门和简，以及所有年轻的孩子们？他们过来偷看、计数、预测？

‘Not all of them every day. Mr. Solomon and Mrs. Waule are here every day, and the others come often.’
“不是每天都有。”所罗门先生和沃勒夫人每天都在这里，其他人也经常来。

The old man listened with a grimace while she spoke, and then said, relaxing his face, ‘The more fools they. You hearken, missy. It’s three o’clock in the morning, and I’ve got all my faculties as well as ever I had in my life. I know all my property, and where the money’s put out, and everything. And I’ve made everything ready to change my mind, and do as I like at the last. Do you hear, missy? I’ve got my faculties.’
老者苦着脸听她说话，然后缓过脸来，说道：“他们越是傻子。”你听着，小姐。现在是凌晨三点，我已经恢复了一生中所有的能力。我知道我所有的财产，钱花在哪里，等等。我已经做好一切准备，改变主意，最后做我喜欢的事。你听到了吗，小姐？我有我的能力。

‘Well, sir?’ said Mary, quietly.
“怎么样，先生？”玛丽轻声说道。

He now lowered his tone with an air of deeper cunning. ‘I’ve made two wills, and I’m going to burn one. Now you do as I tell you. This is the key of my iron chest, in the closet there. You push well at the side of the brass plate at the top, till it goes like a bolt: then you can put the key in the front lock and turn it. See and do that; and take out the topmost paper—Last Will and Testament— big printed.’
他现在压低了语气，带着更深的狡诈。 “我立了两份遗嘱，我要烧掉一份。现在你按照我告诉你的去做。这是我的铁箱的钥匙，就在那儿的壁橱里。你用力推顶部黄铜板的一侧，直到它像螺栓一样转动：然后你可以将钥匙插入前锁并转动它。看到并做到这一点；然后拿出最上面的纸——《遗嘱》——大字印刷。

‘No, sir,’ said Mary, in a firm voice, ‘I cannot do that.’
“不，先生，”玛丽坚定地说，“我不能那样做。”

‘Not do it? I tell you, you must,’ said the old man, his voice beginning to shake under the shock of this resistance.
‘不做吗？我告诉你，你必须这么做。”老人说道，他的声音在这种阻力的冲击下开始颤抖。

‘I cannot touch your iron chest or your will. I must refuse to do anything that might lay me open to suspicion.’
‘我不能碰你的铁胸，也不能碰你的意志。我必须拒绝做任何可能让我受到怀疑的事情。

‘I tell you, I’m in my right mind. Shan’t I do as I like at the last? I made two wills on purpose. Take the key, I say.’
‘我告诉你，我神智正常。我最后不就随心所欲了吗？我故意立了两份遗嘱。拿钥匙，我说。

‘No, sir, I will not,’ said Mary, more resolutely still. Her repulsion was getting stronger.
“不，先生，我不会，”玛丽更加坚决地说。她的排斥感越来越强烈。

‘I tell you, there’s no time to lose.’
“我告诉你，没有时间可以浪费了。”

‘I cannot help that, sir. I will not let the close of your life soil the beginning of mine. I will not touch your iron chest or your will.’ She moved to a little distance from the bedside.
“我无能为力，先生。我不会让你生命的结束玷污我生命的开始。我不会碰你的铁箱，也不会碰你的意志。”她走到离床边稍远的地方。

The old man paused with a blank stare for a little while, holding the one key erect on the ring; then with an agitated jerk he began to work with his bony left hand at emptying the tin box before him.
老人茫然地停顿了一会儿，将钥匙竖立在戒指上。然后，他激动地猛地一抽，开始用瘦骨嶙峋的左手把面前的锡盒倒空。

‘Missy,’ he began to say, hurriedly, ‘look here! take the money— the notes and gold—look here—take it—you shall have it all— do as I tell you.’
“小姐，”他急忙说道，“看这里！拿走钱——纸币和黄金——看这里——拿走——你将拥有一切——按照我告诉你的去做。

He made an effort to stretch out the key towards her as far as possible, and Mary again retreated.
他努力把钥匙尽可能地向她伸出，玛丽又向后退了一步。

‘I will not touch your key or your money, sir. Pray don’t ask me to do it again. If you do, I must go and call your brother.’
“我不会动你的钥匙或你的钱，先生。祈祷不要再要求我这样做。如果你这样做，我必须去给你哥哥打电话。

He let his hand fall, and for the first time in her life Mary saw old Peter Featherstone begin to cry childishly. She said, in as gentle a tone as she could command, ‘Pray put up your money, sir;’ and then went away to her seat by the fire, hoping this would help to convince him that it was useless to say more. Presently he rallied and said eagerly—
他松开了手，玛丽生平第一次看到老彼得·费瑟斯通开始孩子气地哭泣。她用尽可能温和的语气说道：“请把钱拿出来，先生；”然后走到火炉旁的座位上，希望这能帮助他相信说得再多也没用。不久他又振作起来，热切地说道——

‘Look here, then. Call the young chap. Call Fred Vincy.’
‘那么看这里。给那个年轻小伙子打电话。打电话给弗雷德·文西。”

Mary’s heart began to beat more quickly. Various ideas rushed through her mind as to what the burning of a second will might imply. She had to make a difficult decision in a hurry.
玛丽的心跳开始加快。她的脑海中闪过各种念头，不知道第二次意志的燃烧可能意味着什么。她必须赶紧做出一个艰难的决定。

‘I will call him, if you will let me call Mr. Jonah and others with him.’
“如果你让我给乔纳先生和其他人打电话，我会打电话给他。”

‘Nobody else, I say. The young chap. I shall do as I like.’
“我说，没有其他人。”年轻的小伙子。我会做我喜欢做的事。

‘Wait till broad daylight, sir, when every one is stirring. Or let me call Simmons now, to go and fetch the lawyer? He can be here in less than two hours.’
“等到光天化日，先生，大家都激动起来的时候。或者让我现在给西蒙斯打电话，去叫律师？他不到两个小时就能到达这里。”

‘Lawyer? What do I want with the lawyer? Nobody shall know—I say, nobody shall know. I shall do as I like.’
'律师？我想找律师做什么？没有人会知道——我说，没有人会知道。我会做我喜欢做的事。

‘Let me call some one else, sir,’ said Mary, persuasively. She did not like her position—alone with the old man, who seemed to show a strange flaring of nervous energy which enabled him to speak again and again without falling into his usual cough; yet she desired not to push unnecessarily the contradiction which agitated him. ‘Let me, pray, call some one else.’
“先生，让我再打电话给别人吧，”玛丽很有说服力地说。她不喜欢自己的处境——单独和老人在一起，老人似乎表现出一种奇怪的紧张能量，这使他能够一遍又一遍地说话，而不会像往常一样咳嗽。但她不想不必要地加剧激怒他的矛盾。 “请让我打电话给其他人。”

‘You let me alone, I say. Look here, missy. Take the money. You’ll never have the chance again. It’s pretty nigh two hundred— there’s more in the box, and nobody knows how much there was. Take it and do as I tell you.’
“你让我一个人静一静吧，我说。看这里，小姐。拿钱吧。你永远不会再有机会了。差不多有两百了——盒子里还有更多，没人知道到底有多少。拿着它，按照我告诉你的去做。

Mary, standing by the fire, saw its red light falling on the old man, propped up on his pillows and bed-rest, with his bony hand holding out the key, and the money lying on the quilt before him. She never forgot that vision of a man wanting to do as he liked at the last. But the way in which he had put the offer of the money urged her to speak with harder resolution than ever.
玛丽站在火边，看到红光落在老人身上，老人靠在枕头和床上，瘦骨嶙峋的手伸出钥匙，钱放在他面前的被子上。她永远不会忘记一个男人最终想要做他喜欢做的事的愿景。但他提出要钱的方式促使她比以往更加坚定地说话。

‘It is of no use, sir. I will not do it. Put up your money. I will not touch your money. I will do anything else I can to comfort you; but I will not touch your keys or your money.’
‘这是没有用的，先生。我不会这么做的。把你的钱放上来吧。我不会动你的钱。我会尽我所能来安慰你；但我不会动你的钥匙或你的钱。

‘Anything else anything else!’ said old Featherstone, with hoarse rage, which, as if in a nightmare, tried to be loud, and yet was only just audible. ‘I want nothing else. You come here—you come here.’
“还有什么别的什么！”老费瑟斯通愤怒地说，声音沙哑，仿佛在一场噩梦中，他试图大声喊叫，但只能听得见。 ‘我别无他求。你来这里——你来这里。

Mary approached him cautiously, knowing him too well. She saw him dropping his keys and trying to grasp his stick, while he looked at her like an aged hyena, the muscles of his face getting distorted with the effort of his hand. She paused at a safe distance.
玛丽小心翼翼地走近他，因为她太了解他了。她看到他丢下钥匙，试图抓住手杖，而他像一只年迈的鬣狗一样看着她，脸上的肌肉因他的手的力量而扭曲。她在安全距离处停了下来。

‘Let me give you some cordial,’ she said, quietly, ‘and try to compose yourself. You will perhaps go to sleep. And to-morrow by daylight you can do as you like.’
“让我给你喝点甜酒吧，”她轻声说道，“然后试着让自己平静下来。”你也许会去睡觉。明天白天你就可以做你想做的事了。”

He lifted the stick, in spite of her being beyond his reach, and threw it with a hard effort which was but impotence. It fell, slipping over the foot of the bed. Mary let it lie, and retreated to her chair by the fire. By-and-by she would go to him with the cordial. Fatigue would make him passive. It was getting towards the chillest moment of the morning, the fire had got low, and she could see through the chink between the moreen window-curtains the light whitened by the blind. Having put some wood on the fire and thrown a shawl over her, she sat down, hoping that Mr. Featherstone might now fall asleep. If she went near him the irritation might be kept up. He had said nothing after throwing the stick, but she had seen him taking his keys again and laying his right hand on the money. He did not put it up, however, and she thought that he was dropping off to sleep.
尽管她在他够不到的地方，他还是举起了棍子，用力扔了出去，但那是无力的。它掉了下来，滑到了床脚上。玛丽不再理睬，退回到火边的椅子上。不久之后，她就会带着甜酒去找他。疲劳会让他变得被动。早晨最冷的时刻即将到来，火势已经减弱，她可以透过莫林窗帘之间的缝隙看到被百叶窗染白的光线。她在火上放了一些木头，并给她盖上一条围巾，然后坐下来，希望费瑟斯通先生现在可以睡着了。如果她靠近他，这种恼怒可能会持续下去。他扔掉棍子后什么也没说，但她看到他又拿走了钥匙，并将右手放在了钱上。然而他并没有把它挂起来，她以为他正在睡觉。

But Mary herself began to be more agitated by the remembrance of what she had gone through, than she had been by the reality— questioning those acts of hers which had come imperatively and excluded all question in the critical moment.
但玛丽自己开始对自己所经历的事情感到更加不安，而不是现实——质疑她在关键时刻势在必行的行为，并排除了所有问题。

Presently the dry wood sent out a flame which illuminated every crevice, and Mary saw that the old man was lying quietly with his head turned a little on one side. She went towards him with inaudible steps, and thought that his face looked strangely motionless; but the next moment the movement of the flame communicating itself to all objects made her uncertain. The violent beating of her heart rendered her perceptions so doubtful that even when she touched him and listened for his breathing, she could not trust her conclusions. She went to the window and gently propped aside the curtain and blind, so that the still light of the sky fell on the bed.
不久，干木头发出火焰，照亮了每一个缝隙，玛丽看到老人安静地躺着，头稍稍偏向一侧。她迈着听不见的脚步走向他，觉得他的脸看起来一动不动，很奇怪。但下一刻，火焰的运动与所有物体进行交流，让她变得不确定。剧烈的心跳使她的感知变得如此可疑，以至于即使她触摸他并聆听他的呼吸，她也无法相信自己的结论。她走到窗前，轻轻拨开窗帘和百叶窗，让静止的天光落在床上。

The next moment she ran to the bell and rang it energetically. In a very little while there was no longer any doubt that Peter Featherstone was dead, with his right hand clasping the keys, and his left hand lying on the heap of notes and gold.
下一刻，她跑到门铃前，用力地按响了门铃。很快，人们就不再怀疑彼得·费瑟斯通已经死了，他的右手紧握着钥匙，左手放在一堆钞票和金子上。

BOOK IV.
第四册。


THREE LOVE PROBLEMS.
三个爱情问题。


Chapter XXXIV
第三十四章

1st Gent. Such men as this are feathers, chips, and straws.
第一绅士。这样的人是羽毛、碎片和稻草。

Carry no weight, no force.
不承载任何重量，不施加任何力。

2d Gent. But levity
2d 绅士。但轻浮

Is causal too, and makes the sum of weight.
也是因果，并且构成权重之和。

For power finds its place in lack of power;
因为权力因缺乏权力而存在；

Advance is cession, and the driven ship
前进就是放弃，被驱动的船

May run aground because the helmsman’s thought
可能会因为舵手的想法而搁浅

Lacked force to balance opposites.’
缺乏平衡对立面的力量。”

It was on a morning of May that Peter Featherstone was buried. In the prosaic neighborhood of Middlemarch, May was not always warm and sunny, and on this particular morning a chill wind was blowing the blossoms from the surrounding gardens on to the green mounds of Lowick churchyard. Swiftly moving clouds only now and then allowed a gleam to light up any object, whether ugly or beautiful, that happened to stand within its golden shower. In the churchyard the objects were remarkably various, for there was a little country crowd waiting to see the funeral. The news had spread that it was to be a ‘big burying;’ the old gentleman had left written directions about everything and meant to have a funeral ‘beyond his betters.’ This was true; for old Featherstone had not been a Harpagon whose passions had all been devoured by the ever-lean and ever-hungry passion of saving, and who would drive a bargain with his undertaker beforehand. He loved money, but he also loved to spend it in gratifying his peculiar tastes, and perhaps he loved it best of all as a means of making others feel his power more or less uncomfortably. If any one will here contend that there must have been traits of goodness in old Featherstone, I will not presume to deny this; but I must observe that goodness is of a modest nature, easily discouraged, and when much privacy, elbowed in early life by unabashed vices, is apt to retire into extreme privacy, so that it is more easily believed in by those who construct a selfish old gentleman theoretically, than by those who form the narrower judgments based on his personal acquaintance. In any case, he had been bent on having a handsome funeral, and on having persons ‘bid’ to it who would rather have stayed at home. He had even desired that female relatives should follow him to the grave, and poor sister Martha had taken a difficult journey for this purpose from the Chalky Flats. She and Jane would have been altogether cheered (in a tearful manner) by this sign that a brother who disliked seeing them while he was living had been prospectively fond of their presence when he should have become a testator, if the sign had not been made equivocal by being extended to Mrs. Vincy, whose expense in handsome crape seemed to imply the most presumptuous hopes, aggravated by a bloom of complexion which told pretty plainly that she was not a blood-relation, but of that generally objectionable class called wife’s kin.
五月的一个早晨，彼得·费瑟斯通被埋葬了。在米德尔马奇平淡无奇的街区，五月并不总是温暖和阳光明媚，在这个特殊的早晨，一阵寒风将周围花园的花朵吹到洛威克教堂墓地的绿色土堆上。快速移动的云层偶尔会发出微光，照亮任何碰巧站在金色阵雨中的物体，无论是丑陋的还是美丽的。教堂墓地里的物品五花八门，因为有一小群乡下人等着看葬礼。消息传开，这将是一场“盛大的葬礼”；这位老先生留下了有关一切的书面指示，并打算举办一场“超出他的葬礼”的葬礼。因为老费瑟斯通并不是一个哈巴贡人，他的所有热情都被永远精疲力尽、永远饥渴的储蓄热情所吞噬，也不是一个会事先与他的殡仪馆老板讨价还价的人。他爱钱，但他也喜欢用钱来满足自己独特的品味，也许他最喜欢的是将钱作为一种让别人或多或少感到不舒服的手段。如果有人认为老费瑟斯通一定有善良的品质，我不会否认这一点。但我必须指出，善良的本质是谦虚的，很容易灰心丧气，当许多隐私在早年被毫不掩饰的恶习所挤迫时，很容易退缩到极端的隐私中，因此，那些构建自私自利的人更容易相信它。老先生从理论上讲，比那些根据他个人认识做出的狭隘判断要多。无论如何，他一心想要举办一场盛大的葬礼，并让那些宁愿呆在家里的人“出价”参加葬礼。 他甚至希望女性亲属能跟随他到坟墓，而可怜的妹妹玛莎为此从白垩平原走了一段艰难的旅程。如果没有做出这个迹象，她和简一定会因为这个迹象而欢呼雀跃（以含泪的方式），因为一个生前不喜欢见到他们的兄弟在他应该成为立遗嘱人时却预期喜欢他们的存在。扩展到文西夫人身上就显得模棱两可了，她在漂亮的绉纱上的花费似乎暗示着最自以为是的希望，而脸色的绽放更是加剧了这种希望，这清楚地表明她不是血亲，而是属于那种普遍令人反感的阶级，即妻子的亲属。 。

We are all of us imaginative in some form or other, for images are the brood of desire; and poor old Featherstone, who laughed much at the way in which others cajoled themselves, did not escape the fellowship of illusion. In writing the programme for his burial he certainly did not make clear to himself that his pleasure in the little drama of which it formed a part was confined to anticipation. In chuckling over the vexations he could inflict by the rigid clutch of his dead hand, he inevitably mingled his consciousness with that livid stagnant presence, and so far as he was preoccupied with a future life, it was with one of gratification inside his coffin. Thus old Featherstone was imaginative, after his fashion.
我们所有人都以某种形式富有想象力，因为图像是欲望的雏形。可怜的老费瑟斯通对别人哄骗自己的方式大笑不已，但他也未能逃脱幻象的影响。在为他的葬礼编写计划时，他当然没有向自己表明，他对这个小戏剧的乐趣仅限于期待。当他因紧紧抓住死去的手而可能造成的烦恼而咯咯地笑时，他不可避免地将自己的意识与那铁青的停滞存在混合在一起，而就他全神贯注于未来的生活而言，这是他棺材里的一种满足。因此，老费瑟斯通按照他的方式富有想象力。

However, the three mourning-coaches were filled according to the written orders of the deceased. There were pall-bearers on horseback, with the richest scarfs and hatbands, and even the under-bearers had trappings of woe which were of a good well-priced quality. The black procession, when dismounted, looked the larger for the smallness of the churchyard; the heavy human faces and the black draperies shivering in the wind seemed to tell of a world strangely incongruous with the lightly dropping blossoms and the gleams of sunshine on the daisies. The clergyman who met the procession was Mr. Cadwallader—also according to the request of Peter Featherstone, prompted as usual by peculiar reasons. Having a contempt for curates, whom he always called understrappers, he was resolved to be buried by a beneficed clergyman. Mr. Casaubon was out of the question, not merely because he declined duty of this sort, but because Featherstone had an especial dislike to him as the rector of his own parish, who had a lien on the land in the shape of tithe, also as the deliverer of morning sermons, which the old man, being in his pew and not at all sleepy, had been obliged to sit through with an inward snarl. He had an objection to a parson stuck up above his head preaching to him. But his relations with Mr. Cadwallader had been of a different kind: the trout-stream which ran through Mr. Casaubon’s land took its course through Featherstone’s also, so that Mr. Cadwallader was a parson who had had to ask a favor instead of preaching. Moreover, he was one of the high gentry living four miles away from Lowick, and was thus exalted to an equal sky with the sheriff of the county and other dignities vaguely regarded as necessary to the system of things. There would be a satisfaction in being buried by Mr. Cadwallader, whose very name offered a fine opportunity for pronouncing wrongly if you liked.
不过，三辆哀悼车厢的座位是按照死者的书面命令来安排的。抬棺者骑在马背上，戴着最华丽的围巾和帽带，甚至连抬棺者也带着悲痛的服饰，而且质量上乘。黑色的游行队伍下马后，显得比教堂墓地小得多。厚重的人脸和在风中颤抖的黑色窗帘似乎在诉说着一个与轻轻飘落的花朵和雏菊上的阳光格格不入的世界​​。迎接游行队伍的牧师是卡德瓦拉德先生——也是根据彼得·费瑟斯通的要求，一如往常的特殊原因。他鄙视牧师，他总是称他们为下层人物，因此决定由一位受恩的牧师埋葬。卡苏邦先生是不可能的，不仅因为他拒绝履行这种职责，而且因为费瑟斯通特别不喜欢他作为自己教区的教区长，因为他对土地有什一税形式的留置权，而且作为早上布道的主持人，老人坐在座位上，一点也不瞌睡，不得不一边心里咆哮一边听完布道。他反对牧师高举在他头顶上向他讲道。但他与卡德瓦拉德先生的关系却是另一种类型：流经卡苏邦先生土地的鳟鱼溪流也流经费瑟斯通的土地，因此卡德瓦拉德先生是一位牧师，他不得不请求帮助而不是布道。 。此外，他是居住在距离洛威克四英里之外的贵族之一，因此被提升到与县治安官和其他被模糊地认为是事物制度所必需的贵族平起平坐。 被卡德沃拉德先生埋葬会让人感到满足，如果你愿意的话，他的名字本身就提供了一个发音错误的好机会。

This distinction conferred on the Rector of Tipton and Freshitt was the reason why Mrs. Cadwallader made one of the group that watched old Featherstone’s funeral from an upper window of the manor. She was not fond of visiting that house, but she liked, as she said, to see collections of strange animals such as there would be at this funeral; and she had persuaded Sir James and the young Lady Chettam to drive the Rector and herself to Lowick in order that the visit might be altogether pleasant.
蒂普顿和弗雷希特的校长获得了这一殊荣，这也是卡德沃拉德夫人成为从庄园楼上窗户观看老费瑟斯通葬礼的一员的原因。她不喜欢参观那所房子，但正如她所说，她喜欢看到奇怪的动物收藏，就像葬礼上那样；她说服了詹姆斯爵士和年轻的切塔姆夫人开车送教区长和她本人去洛威克，以便使这次访问完全愉快。

‘I will go anywhere with you, Mrs. Cadwallader,’ Celia had said; ‘but I don’t like funerals.’
“我会和你一起去任何地方，卡德沃拉德夫人，”西莉亚说道。 “但我不喜欢葬礼。”

‘Oh, my dear, when you have a clergyman in your family you must accommodate your tastes: I did that very early. When I married Humphrey I made up my mind to like sermons, and I set out by liking the end very much. That soon spread to the middle and the beginning, because I couldn’t have the end without them.’
‘哦，亲爱的，当你家里有牧师时，你必须适应你的口味：我很早就这样做了。当我与汉弗莱结婚时，我下定决心要喜欢布道，而且我一开始就非常喜欢布道的结局。这很快就蔓延到了中间和开头，因为没有它们我就无法结束。

‘No, to be sure not,’ said the Dowager Lady Chettam, with stately emphasis.
“不，当然不是，”切塔姆夫人庄严地强调道。

The upper window from which the funeral could be well seen was in the room occupied by Mr. Casaubon when he had been forbidden to work; but he had resumed nearly his habitual style of life now in spite of warnings and prescriptions, and after politely welcoming Mrs. Cadwallader had slipped again into the library to chew a cud of erudite mistake about Cush and Mizraim.
从楼上的窗户可以清楚地看到葬礼，那扇窗户就在卡苏邦先生被禁止工作时所住的房间里。但现在，尽管有警告和处方，他已经恢复了几乎惯常的生活方式，在礼貌地欢迎卡德瓦拉德夫人之后，他又溜进图书馆，咀嚼有关库什和麦西姆的博学错误。

But for her visitors Dorothea too might have been shut up in the library, and would not have witnessed this scene of old Featherstone’s funeral, which, aloof as it seemed to be from the tenor of her life, always afterwards came back to her at the touch of certain sensitive points in memory, just as the vision of St. Peter’s at Rome was inwoven with moods of despondency. Scenes which make vital changes in our neighbors’ lot are but the background of our own, yet, like a particular aspect of the fields and trees, they become associated for us with the epochs of our own history, and make a part of that unity which lies in the selection of our keenest consciousness.
要不是她的来访者，多萝西娅也可能被关在图书馆里，不会目睹老费瑟斯通葬礼的这一幕，尽管这似乎与她生活的主题无关，但事后她总会在葬礼上想起这一幕。触动了记忆中的某些敏感点，就像罗马圣彼得大教堂的景象交织着沮丧的情绪一样。给我们邻居的命运带来重大变化的场景只是我们自己的背景，然而，就像田野和树木的特定方面一样，它们对我们来说与我们自己的历史时代联系在一起，并成为这种统一的一部分在于我们最敏锐的意识的选择。

The dream-like association of something alien and ill-understood with the deepest secrets of her experience seemed to mirror that sense of loneliness which was due to the very ardor of Dorothea’s nature. The country gentry of old time lived in a rarefied social air: dotted apart on their stations up the mountain they looked down with imperfect discrimination on the belts of thicker life below. And Dorothea was not at ease in the perspective and chilliness of that height.
一些陌生的、不为人知的事物与她经历中最深的秘密的梦幻般的联系似乎反映了多萝西娅性格中的热情所带来的孤独感。旧时代的乡村绅士生活在一种稀薄的社会气氛中：他们分散地站在山上的车站上，以不完美的辨别力俯视着下面更丰富的生活带。多萝西娅在那个高度的视野和寒冷中感到不自在。

‘I shall not look any more,’ said Celia, after the train had entered the church, placing herself a little behind her husband’s elbow so that she could slyly touch his coat with her cheek. ‘I dare say Dodo likes it: she is fond of melancholy things and ugly people.’
“我不会再看了。”火车驶入教堂后，西莉亚说道，她把自己靠在丈夫的肘部后面一点，这样她就可以偷偷地用脸颊碰触他的外套。 “我敢说多多喜欢它：她喜欢忧郁的事物和丑陋的人。”

‘I am fond of knowing something about the people I live among,’ said Dorothea, who had been watching everything with the interest of a monk on his holiday tour. ‘It seems to me we know nothing of our neighbors, unless they are cottagers. One is constantly wondering what sort of lives other people lead, and how they take things. I am quite obliged to Mrs. Cadwallader for coming and calling me out of the library.’
“我喜欢了解一些关于我生活在一起的人的事情，”多萝西娅说，她在假期旅行中以僧侣的兴趣观察着一切。 “在我看来，我们对邻居一无所知，除非他们是佃农。人们不断地想知道其他人过着什么样的生活，以及他们如何对待事物。我非常感谢卡德沃拉德夫人来把我从图书馆叫出来。

‘Quite right to feel obliged to me,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘Your rich Lowick farmers are as curious as any buffaloes or bisons, and I dare say you don’t half see them at church. They are quite different from your uncle’s tenants or Sir James’s—monsters— farmers without landlords—one can’t tell how to class them.’
“对我感到感激是非常正确的，”卡德沃拉德夫人说。 “你们富有的洛威克农民和水牛或野牛一样好奇，我敢说你们在教堂里几乎看不到他们。他们与你叔叔的佃农或詹姆斯爵士的佃农完全不同——怪物——没有房东的农民——人们不知道如何对他们进行分类。

‘Most of these followers are not Lowick people,’ said Sir James; ‘I suppose they are legatees from a distance, or from Middlemarch. Lovegood tells me the old fellow has left a good deal of money as well as land.’
“这些追随者大多数都不是洛伊克人，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “我想他们是远方的受遗赠者，或者是来自米德尔马契的遗赠者。洛夫古德告诉我，那个老家伙留下了很多钱和土地。”

‘Think of that now! when so many younger sons can’t dine at their own expense,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘Ah,’ turning round at the sound of the opening door, ‘here is Mr. Brooke. I felt that we were incomplete before, and here is the explanation. You are come to see this odd funeral, of course?’
‘现在想想吧！ “这么多年幼的儿子都无法自费吃饭，”卡德沃拉德夫人说。 “啊，”听到开门声，他转过身来，“布鲁克先生来了。”之前我觉得我们不完整，这里解释一下。你当然是来看这个奇怪的葬礼的吗？

‘No, I came to look after Casaubon—to see how he goes on, you know. And to bring a little news—a little news, my dear,’ said Mr. Brooke, nodding at Dorothea as she came towards him. ‘I looked into the library, and I saw Casaubon over his books. I told him it wouldn’t do: I said, ‘This will never do, you know: think of your wife, Casaubon.’ And he promised me to come up. I didn’t tell him my news: I said, he must come up.’
“不，我是来照顾卡苏邦的——看看他怎么样了，你知道的。并带来一个小消息——一个小消息，亲爱的，”布鲁克先生说，当多萝西娅朝他走来时，他向她点了点头。 “我走进图书馆，看到卡苏邦在他的书上。我告诉他这是不行的：我说，“这永远行不通，你知道的：想想你的妻子卡苏邦。”他答应我去。我没有告诉他我的消息：我说，他必须上来。

‘Ah, now they are coming out of church,’ Mrs. Cadwallader exclaimed. ‘Dear me, what a wonderfully mixed set! Mr. Lydgate as doctor, I suppose. But that is really a good looking woman, and the fair young man must be her son. Who are they, Sir James, do you know?’
“啊，现在他们正从教堂出来，”卡德瓦拉德夫人惊呼道。 “天哪，这是多么美妙的混合组合啊！我想利德盖特先生是医生。不过那确实是一个长得好看的女人，而那个白皙的年轻人一定是她的儿子。他们是谁，詹姆斯爵士，你知道吗？

‘I see Vincy, the Mayor of Middlemarch; they are probably his wife and son,’ said Sir James, looking interrogatively at Mr. Brooke, who nodded and said—
“我看到米德尔马契市长文西； “他们可能是他的妻子和儿子。”詹姆斯爵士疑惑地看着布鲁克先生，布鲁克先生点点头说道——

‘Yes, a very decent family—a very good fellow is Vincy; a credit to the manufacturing interest. You have seen him at my house, you know.’
“是的，一个非常体面的家庭——文西是一个非常好的人；制造业利益的信用。你知道，你在我家见过他。

‘Ah, yes: one of your secret committee,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, provokingly.
“啊，是的：你们的秘密委员会之一，”卡德瓦拉德夫人挑衅地说。

‘A coursing fellow, though,’ said Sir James, with a fox-hunter’s disgust.
“不过，这是一个追逐的家伙。”詹姆斯爵士带着猎狐者的厌恶说道。

‘And one of those who suck the life out of the wretched handloom weavers in Tipton and Freshitt. That is how his family look so fair and sleek,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘Those dark, purple-faced people are an excellent foil. Dear me, they are like a set of jugs! Do look at Humphrey: one might fancy him an ugly archangel towering above them in his white surplice.’
“还有那些从蒂普顿和弗雷希特那些可怜的手摇纺织工身上吸取生命的人。这就是他的家人看起来如此白皙、光滑的原因。”卡德沃拉德夫人说。 ‘那些黑黑紫脸的人是极好的陪衬。天哪，它们就像一组罐子！一定要看看汉弗莱：人们可能会认为他是一位丑陋的大天使，身穿白色法衣，高高耸立在他们之上。

‘It’s a solemn thing, though, a funeral,’ said Mr. Brooke, ‘if you take it in that light, you know.’
“不过，葬礼是一件庄严的事情，”布鲁克先生说，“如果你从这个角度来看，你就知道了。”

‘But I am not taking it in that light. I can’t wear my solemnity too often, else it will go to rags. It was time the old man died, and none of these people are sorry.’
“但我并不这么认为。我不能太频繁地表现出我的庄严，否则它就会破烂不堪。老人已经死了，但这些人都没有感到遗憾。

‘How piteous!’ said Dorothea. ‘This funeral seems to me the most dismal thing I ever saw. It is a blot on the morning I cannot bear to think that any one should die and leave no love behind.’
“多可怜啊！”多萝西娅说。 “在我看来，这场葬礼是我见过的最悲惨的事情。这是早上的一个污点，我无法忍受想到任何一个人死后都不会留下任何爱。

She was going to say more, but she saw her husband enter and seat himself a little in the background. The difference his presence made to her was not always a happy one: she felt that he often inwardly objected to her speech.
她还想再说点什么，但她看到她的丈夫走进来，坐在后面的位置上。他的出现给她带来的改变并不总是令人高兴的：她觉得他常常在内心反对她的讲话。

‘Positively,’ exclaimed Mrs. Cadwallader, ‘there is a new face come out from behind that broad man queerer than any of them: a little round head with bulging eyes—a sort of frog-face—do look. He must be of another blood, I think.’
“确实，”卡德瓦拉德夫人惊呼道，“那个大块头男人身后出现了一张新面孔，比他们中任何一个人都奇怪：一个圆圆的小脑袋，眼睛凸出来——有点像青蛙脸——看起来确实如此。”我想他一定是有另一种血统。

‘Let me see!’ said Celia, with awakened curiosity, standing behind Mrs. Cadwallader and leaning forward over her head. ‘Oh, what an odd face!’ Then with a quick change to another sort of surprised expression, she added, ‘Why, Dodo, you never told me that Mr. Ladislaw was come again!’
“让我看看！”西莉亚站在卡德沃拉德夫人身后，身体向前倾过头顶，好奇心被唤醒。 “哦，多么奇怪的脸啊！”然后，她迅速变成另一种惊讶的表情，补充道，“为什么，多多，你从来没有告诉我拉迪斯瓦夫先生又来了！”

Dorothea felt a shock of alarm: every one noticed her sudden paleness as she looked up immediately at her uncle, while Mr. Casaubon looked at her.
多萝西娅感到一阵惊慌：每个人都注意到她突然脸色苍白，她立即抬头看着她的叔叔，而卡苏邦先生则看着她。

‘He came with me, you know; he is my guest—puts up with me at the Grange,’ said Mr. Brooke, in his easiest tone, nodding at Dorothea, as if the announcement were just what she might have expected. ‘And we have brought the picture at the top of the carriage. I knew you would be pleased with the surprise, Casaubon. There you are to the very life—as Aquinas, you know. Quite the right sort of thing. And you will hear young Ladislaw talk about it. He talks uncommonly well—points out this, that, and the other— knows art and everything of that kind—companionable, you know—is up with you in any track—what I’ve been wanting a long while.’
“你知道，他和我一起来的； “他是我的客人——他在农庄里容忍了我。”布鲁克先生用他最轻松的语气说道，同时向多萝西娅点点头，仿佛这个消息正是她所预料的。 “我们把照片带到了车厢顶部。我知道你会对这个惊喜感到高兴，卡苏邦。这就是你的生活——你知道，就像阿奎那一样。完全正确的事情。你会听到年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫谈论这件事。他的谈吐非常好——指出这个、那个、另一个——了解艺术和诸如此类的一切——你知道，他在任何方面都与你相伴——这是我长期以来一直想要的。

Mr. Casaubon bowed with cold politeness, mastering his irritation, but only so far as to be silent. He remembered Will’s letter quite as well as Dorothea did; he had noticed that it was not among the letters which had been reserved for him on his recovery, and secretly concluding that Dorothea had sent word to Will not to come to Lowick, he had shrunk with proud sensitiveness from ever recurring to the subject. He now inferred that she had asked her uncle to invite Will to the Grange; and she felt it impossible at that moment to enter into any explanation.
卡苏邦先生冷冷礼貌地鞠了一躬，控制住自己的怒气，但也只是保持沉默。他和多萝西娅一样记得威尔的信。他注意到这封信并不在他康复后保留给他的信中，并暗中得出结论，多萝西娅已传话给威尔，让他不要来洛威克，他因骄傲的敏感而退缩，不再再提起这个话题。他现在推断，她是让她叔叔邀请威尔去田庄的。此刻她觉得无法做出任何解释。

Mrs. Cadwallader’s eyes, diverted from the churchyard, saw a good deal of dumb show which was not so intelligible to her as she could have desired, and could not repress the question, ‘Who is Mr. Ladislaw?’
卡德瓦拉德夫人的目光从教堂墓地移开，看到了很多愚蠢的表演，这些表演对她来说并不像她所希望的那样理解，她无法抑制这个问题：“拉迪斯洛先生是谁？”

‘A young relative of Mr. Casaubon’s,’ said Sir James, promptly. His good-nature often made him quick and clear-seeing in personal matters, and he had divined from Dorothea’s glance at her husband that there was some alarm in her mind.
“卡苏邦先生的一位年轻亲戚，”詹姆斯爵士立即说道。他的善良本性常常使他在处理个人事务时反应迅速而清晰，他从多萝西娅看她丈夫的眼神中看出她心里有些惊慌。

‘A very nice young fellow—Casaubon has done everything for him,’ explained Mr. Brooke. ‘He repays your expense in him, Casaubon,’ he went on, nodding encouragingly. ‘I hope he will stay with me a long while and we shall make something of my documents. I have plenty of ideas and facts, you know, and I can see he is just the man to put them into shape—remembers what the right quotations are, omne tulit punctum, and that sort of thing—gives subjects a kind of turn. I invited him some time ago when you were ill, Casaubon; Dorothea said you couldn’t have anybody in the house, you know, and she asked me to write.’
“卡索邦是一个非常好的年轻人，他为他做了一切，”布鲁克先生解释道。 “卡苏朋，他用他来回报你的付出，”他继续说道，鼓励地点点头。 “我希望他能和我在一起很长一段时间，我们会利用我的文件做点什么。”我有很多想法和事实，你知道，我可以看到他正是将它们付诸实践的人——记住正确的引文是什么，omne tulit punctum，诸如此类的事情——给主题带来了某种转变。卡苏朋，你生病的时候我邀请过他；多萝西娅说家里不能有任何人，你知道，她让我写信。

Poor Dorothea felt that every word of her uncle’s was about as pleasant as a grain of sand in the eye to Mr. Casaubon. It would be altogether unfitting now to explain that she had not wished her uncle to invite Will Ladislaw. She could not in the least make clear to herself the reasons for her husband’s dislike to his presence— a dislike painfully impressed on her by the scene in the library; but she felt the unbecomingness of saying anything that might convey a notion of it to others. Mr. Casaubon, indeed, had not thoroughly represented those mixed reasons to himself; irritated feeling with him, as with all of us, seeking rather for justification than for self-knowledge. But he wished to repress outward signs, and only Dorothea could discern the changes in her husband’s face before he observed with more of dignified bending and sing-song than usual—
可怜的多萝西娅觉得，舅舅的每一句话，在卡苏朋先生眼里，都像一粒沙子一样令人愉快。现在解释她不希望叔叔邀请威尔·拉迪斯洛是完全不合适的。她根本无法向自己解释丈夫不喜欢他出现的原因——图书馆里的场景给她留下了痛苦的印象。但她觉得说任何可能向别人传达这种想法的事情都是不合适的。事实上，卡苏邦先生并没有彻底向自己阐述这些复杂的原因；就像我们所有人一样，他对他感到恼火，他寻求的是正当理由，而不是自知之明。但他希望抑制外在的迹象，只有多萝西娅能看出她丈夫脸上的变化，然后他才用比平常更多的威严的弯腰和唱歌来观察——

‘You are exceedingly hospitable, my dear sir; and I owe you acknowledgments for exercising your hospitality towards a relative of mine.’
“您非常热情好客，我亲爱的先生；我要感谢你对我的一位亲戚的热情款待。

The funeral was ended now, and the churchyard was being cleared.
葬礼现已结束，墓地正在清理。

‘Now you can see him, Mrs. Cadwallader,’ said Celia. ‘He is just like a miniature of Mr. Casaubon’s aunt that hangs in Dorothea’s boudoir— quite nice-looking.’
“现在你可以看到他了，卡德沃拉德夫人，”西莉亚说。 “他就像挂在多萝西娅闺房里的卡苏邦先生姨妈的缩影——相当漂亮。”

‘A very pretty sprig,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, dryly. ‘What is your nephew to be, Mr. Casaubon?’
“一棵非常漂亮的小树枝，”卡德沃拉德夫人干巴巴地说。 “卡苏邦先生，您的侄子是什么？”

‘Pardon me, he is not my nephew. He is my cousin.’
“请原谅，他不是我的侄子。他是我的表亲。'

‘Well, you know,’ interposed Mr. Brooke, ‘he is trying his wings. He is just the sort of young fellow to rise. I should be glad to give him an opportunity. He would make a good secretary, now, like Hobbes, Milton, Swift—that sort of man.’
“嗯，你知道，”布鲁克先生插话道，“他正在尝试他的翅膀。”他就是那种即将崛起的年轻人。我应该很高兴给他一个机会。现在，他会成为一名优秀的秘书，就像霍布斯、米尔顿、斯威夫特那样的人。

‘I understand,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘One who can write speeches.’
“我明白，”卡德沃拉德夫人说。 “一个会写演讲稿的人。”

‘I’ll fetch him in now, eh, Casaubon?’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘He wouldn’t come in till I had announced him, you know. And we’ll go down and look at the picture. There you are to the life: a deep subtle sort of thinker with his fore-finger on the page, while Saint Bonaventure or somebody else, rather fat and florid, is looking up at the Trinity. Everything is symbolical, you know— the higher style of art: I like that up to a certain point, but not too far—it’s rather straining to keep up with, you know. But you are at home in that, Casaubon. And your painter’s flesh is good—solidity, transparency, everything of that sort. I went into that a great deal at one time. However, I’ll go and fetch Ladislaw.’
“我现在就去接他进来，嗯，卡苏朋？”布鲁克先生说。 “你知道，在我宣布他的消息之前他不会进来。”我们将下去看看照片。这就是生活：一位深刻而微妙的思想家，他的食指放在书页上，而圣文德或其他人，相当肥胖和华丽，正在抬头看着三位一体。一切都是象征性的，你知道的——更高层次的艺术风格：我在某种程度上喜欢这一点，但也不是太远——跟上它是相当费劲的，你知道。但你对此很熟悉，卡索邦。你的画家的肉体是好的——坚实、透明，诸如此类。我曾一度深入探讨过这个问题。不过，我会去接拉迪斯拉。”

CHAPTER XXXV
第三十五章

“Non, je ne comprends pas de plus charmant plaisir
“不，我不理解 pas de plus charmant plaisir

Que de voir d’heritiers une troupe affligee
剧团成员的遗产继承人

Le maintien interdit, et la mine allongee,
Le maintien interdit, et la me allongee,

Lire un long testament ou pales, etonnes
On leur laisse un bonsoir avec un pied de nez.
在 leur laisse un bonsoir avec un pied de nez 上。

Pour voir au naturel leur tristesse profonde
凝视自然深处的悲伤

Je reviendrais, je crois, expres de l’autre monde.’
—REGNARD: Le Legataire Universel.
——雷格纳德：《世界遗产》。

When the animals entered the Ark in pairs, one may imagine that allied species made much private remark on each other, and were tempted to think that so many forms feeding on the same store of fodder were eminently superfluous, as tending to diminish the rations. (I fear the part played by the vultures on that occasion would be too painful for art to represent, those birds being disadvantageously naked about the gullet, and apparently without rites and ceremonies.)
当动物成对进入方舟时，人们可能会想象，同类物种会互相私下议论，并倾向于认为如此多的动物以同一堆饲料为食是非常多余的，因为这往往会减少配给量。 （我担心秃鹰在那个场合所扮演的角色对于艺术来说太痛苦了，无法代表这些鸟的食道，而且显然没有仪式和仪式，这是不利的。）

The same sort of temptation befell the Christian Carnivora who formed Peter Featherstone’s funeral procession; most of them having their minds bent on a limited store which each would have liked to get the most of. The long-recognized blood-relations and connections by marriage made already a goodly number, which, multiplied by possibilities, presented a fine range for jealous conjecture and pathetic hopefulness. Jealousy of the Vincys had created a fellowship in hostility among all persons of the Featherstone blood, so that in the absence of any decided indication that one of themselves was to have more than the rest, the dread lest that long-legged Fred Vincy should have the land was necessarily dominant, though it left abundant feeling and leisure for vaguer jealousies, such as were entertained towards Mary Garth. Solomon found time to reflect that Jonah was undeserving, and Jonah to abuse Solomon as greedy; Jane, the elder sister, held that Martha’s children ought not to expect so much as the young Waules; and Martha, more lax on the subject of primogeniture, was sorry to think that Jane was so ‘having.’ These nearest of kin were naturally impressed with the unreasonableness of expectations in cousins and second cousins, and used their arithmetic in reckoning the large sums that small legacies might mount to, if there were too many of them. Two cousins were present to hear the will, and a second cousin besides Mr. Trumbull. This second cousin was a Middlemarch mercer of polite manners and superfluous aspirates. The two cousins were elderly men from Brassing, one of them conscious of claims on the score of inconvenient expense sustained by him in presents of oysters and other eatables to his rich cousin Peter; the other entirely saturnine, leaning his hands and chin on a stick, and conscious of claims based on no narrow performance but on merit generally: both blameless citizens of Brassing, who wished that Jonah Featherstone did not live there. The wit of a family is usually best received among strangers.
同样的诱惑也降临在基督教食肉动物身上，他们组成了彼得·费瑟斯通的送葬队伍。他们中的大多数人都一心想要一家有限的商店，每个人都想充分利用它。长期以来公认的血缘关系和婚姻关系已经构成了一个相当大的数字，这个数字乘以可能性，为嫉妒的猜测和可怜的希望提供了一个很好的范围。对文西家族的嫉妒在所有费瑟斯通血统的人之间建立了一种敌对关系，因此，在没有任何明确迹象表明他们中的一个人比其他人拥有更多的情况下，人们担心长腿的弗雷德·文西会拥有更多的东西。这片土地必然是占主导地位的，尽管它给模糊的嫉妒留下了丰富的感情和闲暇，比如对玛丽·加斯的嫉妒。所罗门抽出时间反省约拿不配，而约拿则辱骂所罗门贪婪。姐姐简认为，玛莎的孩子们不应该像年轻的沃勒斯那样抱有那么大的期望。玛莎在长子继承权问题上比较宽松，她很遗憾地认为简是如此“有钱”。这些最近的亲属自然对表兄弟和远房表兄弟的不合理期望印象深刻，并用他们的算术来计算巨额金额。如果它们太多的话，小小的遗产可能会增加。两个堂兄弟出席了聆听遗嘱的仪式，除了特朗布尔先生之外，还有一位远房堂兄弟。这位远房表弟是米德尔马契的商人，举止彬彬有礼，但抱负过多。 这两个表兄弟是来自布拉辛的老人，其中一个意识到他因向富有的表兄弟彼得赠送牡蛎和其他食物而造成的不便开支而提出索赔；而他的表兄弟是来自布拉辛的老人。另一个则完全阴郁，双手和下巴靠在一根棍子上，意识到自己的主张不是基于狭隘的表现，而是基于一般的优点：他们都是布拉辛无可指责的公民，他们希望乔纳·费瑟斯通不住在那里。一家人的智慧通常最容易受到陌生人的欢迎。

‘Why, Trumbull himself is pretty sure of five hundred—THAT you may depend,—I shouldn’t wonder if my brother promised him,’ said Solomon, musing aloud with his sisters, the evening before the funeral.
“为什么，特朗布尔本人非常确定五百——你可以相信——我不应该怀疑我哥哥是否答应了他，”葬礼前一天晚上所罗门与他的姐妹们大声沉思。

‘Dear, dear!’ said poor sister Martha, whose imagination of hundreds had been habitually narrowed to the amount of her unpaid rent.
“亲爱的，亲爱的！”可怜的玛莎姐姐说，她对数百个的想象已经习惯性地缩小到她未付的房租的数额。

But in the morning all the ordinary currents of conjecture were disturbed by the presence of a strange mourner who had plashed among them as if from the moon. This was the stranger described by Mrs. Cadwallader as frog-faced: a man perhaps about two or three and thirty, whose prominent eyes, thin-lipped, downward-curved mouth, and hair sleekly brushed away from a forehead that sank suddenly above the ridge of the eyebrows, certainly gave his face a batrachian unchangeableness of expression. Here, clearly, was a new legatee; else why was he bidden as a mourner? Here were new possibilities, raising a new uncertainty, which almost checked remark in the mourning-coaches. We are all humiliated by the sudden discovery of a fact which has existed very comfortably and perhaps been staring at us in private while we have been making up our world entirely without it. No one had seen this questionable stranger before except Mary Garth, and she knew nothing more of him than that he had twice been to Stone Court when Mr. Featherstone was down-stairs, and had sat alone with him for several hours. She had found an opportunity of mentioning this to her father, and perhaps Caleb’s were the only eyes, except the lawyer’s, which examined the stranger with more of inquiry than of disgust or suspicion. Caleb Garth, having little expectation and less cupidity, was interested in the verification of his own guesses, and the calmness with which he half smilingly rubbed his chin and shot intelligent glances much as if he were valuing a tree, made a fine contrast with the alarm or scorn visible in other faces when the unknown mourner, whose name was understood to be Rigg, entered the wainscoted parlor and took his seat near the door to make part of the audience when the will should be read. Just then Mr. Solomon and Mr. Jonah were gone up-stairs with the lawyer to search for the will; and Mrs. Waule, seeing two vacant seats between herself and Mr. Borthrop Trumbull, had the spirit to move next to that great authority, who was handling his watch-seals and trimming his outlines with a determination not to show anything so compromising to a man of ability as wonder or surprise.
但到了早上，所有普通的猜测都被一个奇怪的哀悼者的出现打乱了，这个人就像从月亮上来一样在他们中间嬉戏。这就是卡德沃拉德夫人描述的青蛙脸陌生人：一个大约二岁、三岁、三十岁左右的男人，他的眼睛突出，嘴唇薄，嘴巴向下弯曲，头发光滑地从突然下垂的前额上拂过。眉毛的隆起，无疑给他的脸带来了一种蝙蝠般的不变的表情。显然，这是一个新的受遗赠人。否则为什么他会被邀请去哀悼呢？这里出现了新的可能性，带来了新的不确定性，这几乎阻止了哀悼教练的评论。当我们突然发现一个事实时，我们都会感到羞辱，这个事实一直存在得非常舒服，也许在我们完全没有它的情况下构建我们的世界时，它一直在私下里盯着我们。除了玛丽·加思之外，以前没有人见过这个可疑的陌生人，她对他的了解只是知道费瑟斯通先生在楼下时他曾两次去过斯通庭院，并单独和他坐了几个小时。她找到了一个机会向父亲提起这件事，也许凯勒布是除了律师之外唯一的眼睛，律师用更多的询问而不是厌恶或怀疑来审视这个陌生人。凯莱布·加斯没有什么期望，也没有那么贪婪，他对验证自己的猜测很感兴趣，他半笑着揉着下巴，投来聪明的目光，就像在评价一棵树一样，他的平静与他的看法形成了鲜明的对比。当这位名叫里格（Rigg）的不知名哀悼者走进壁板客厅，坐在靠近门的座位上，在宣读遗嘱时成为观众的一部分时，其他人脸上都露出惊慌或轻蔑的表情。 就在这时，所罗门先生和乔纳先生正和律师一起上楼去寻找遗嘱。沃勒夫人看到自己和博思罗普·特朗布尔先生之间有两个空座位，便有勇气走到这位伟大的权威旁边，他正在处理他的手表封条并修剪他的轮廓，决心不表现出任何对一个人有任何妥协的东西。有能力的人作为奇迹或惊喜。

‘I suppose you know everything about what my poor brother’s done, Mr. Trumbull,’ said Mrs. Waule, in the lowest of her woolly tones, while she turned her crape-shadowed bonnet towards Mr. Trumbull’s ear.
“我想你对我可怜的兄弟所做的一切都了如指掌，特朗布尔先生。”沃勒夫人用最低沉的羊毛声调说，同时把黑纱遮盖的帽子转向特朗布尔先生的耳朵。

‘My good lady, whatever was told me was told in confidence,’ said the auctioneer, putting his hand up to screen that secret.
“我的好女士，我所知道的一切都是秘密告诉的，”拍卖师说道，并举起手来掩饰这个秘密。

‘Them who’ve made sure of their good-luck may be disappointed yet,’ Mrs. Waule continued, finding some relief in this communication.
“那些确信自己好运的人可能会感到失望，”沃勒夫人继续说道，在这次交流中找到了一些安慰。

‘Hopes are often delusive,’ said Mr. Trumbull, still in confidence.
“希望往往是虚幻的，”特朗布尔先生仍然充满信心地说。

‘Ah!’ said Mrs. Waule, looking across at the Vincys, and then moving back to the side of her sister Martha.
“啊！”沃勒夫人看着文西一家，说道，然后又回到了她姐姐玛莎的身边。

‘It’s wonderful how close poor Peter was,’ she said, in the same undertones. ‘We none of us know what he might have had on his mind. I only hope and trust he wasn’t a worse liver than we think of, Martha.’
“可怜的彼得离我们有多近，真是太好了，”她用同样的语气说道。 “我们谁也不知道他心里可能在想什么。我只希望并相信他的肝脏没有我们想象的那么糟糕，玛莎。”

Poor Mrs. Cranch was bulky, and, breathing asthmatically, had the additional motive for making her remarks unexceptionable and giving them a general bearing, that even her whispers were loud and liable to sudden bursts like those of a deranged barrel-organ.
可怜的克兰奇太太身材魁梧，气喘吁吁，她还有一个额外的动机，就是让她的言论无可挑剔，并给人一种笼统的感觉，甚至她的低语声也很大，容易突然爆发，就像一个疯狂的桶风琴一样。

‘I never WAS covetious, Jane,’ she replied; ‘but I have six children and have buried three, and I didn’t marry into money. The eldest, that sits there, is but nineteen—so I leave you to guess. And stock always short, and land most awkward. But if ever I’ve begged and prayed; it’s been to God above; though where there’s one brother a bachelor and the other childless after twice marrying— anybody might think!’
“我从来不贪心，简，”她回答道。 “但我有六个孩子，埋葬了三个，而且我结婚并不是为了钱。”坐在那里的最大的，只有十九岁——所以我让你猜。而且库存总是短缺，落地最尴尬。但如果我曾经祈求和祈祷过；是在上面的上帝；尽管其中一个兄弟是单身汉，另一个兄弟在两次结婚后没有孩子——任何人都可能会想！

Meanwhile, Mr. Vincy had glanced at the passive face of Mr. Rigg, and had taken out his snuff-box and tapped it, but had put it again unopened as an indulgence which, however clarifying to the judgment, was unsuited to the occasion. ‘I shouldn’t wonder if Featherstone had better feelings than any of us gave him credit for,’ he observed, in the ear of his wife. ‘This funeral shows a thought about everybody: it looks well when a man wants to be followed by his friends, and if they are humble, not to be ashamed of them. I should be all the better pleased if he’d left lots of small legacies. They may be uncommonly useful to fellows in a small way.’
与此同时，文西先生看了一眼里格先生消极的表情，拿出鼻烟盒敲了敲，但又把它打开，当作一种赎罪券，不管判决多么清楚，都不适合这个场合。 。 “我不应该怀疑费瑟斯通的感情是否比我们任何人想象的都要好，”他在妻子耳边说道。 “这场葬礼体现了对每个人的思考：当一个人希望自己的朋友们追随他时，如果他们谦虚，不为他们感到羞耻，这看起来很好。如果他留下了很多小遗产，我会更加高兴。它们可能在某种程度上对其他人来说非常有用。

‘Everything is as handsome as could be, crape and silk and everything,’ said Mrs. Vincy, contentedly.
“一切都尽可能漂亮，绉纱和丝绸什么的，”文西夫人满意地说。

But I am sorry to say that Fred was under some difficulty in repressing a laugh, which would have been more unsuitable than his father’s snuff-box. Fred had overheard Mr. Jonah suggesting something about a ‘love-child,’ and with this thought in his mind, the stranger’s face, which happened to be opposite him, affected him too ludicrously. Mary Garth, discerning his distress in the twitchings of his mouth, and his recourse to a cough, came cleverly to his rescue by asking him to change seats with her, so that he got into a shadowy corner. Fred was feeling as good-naturedly as possible towards everybody, including Rigg; and having some relenting towards all these people who were less lucky than he was aware of being himself, he would not for the world have behaved amiss; still, it was particularly easy to laugh.
但我很遗憾地说，弗雷德有点难以抑制笑声，这比他父亲的鼻烟盒更不合适。弗雷德无意中听到乔纳先生提出了关于“私生子”的建议，当他想到这一点时，对面那个陌生人的脸对他产生了太可笑的影响。玛丽·加思从他嘴角的抽动中看出了他的痛苦，并从他的咳嗽声中看出了他的痛苦，于是巧妙地帮他解围，要求他与她换座位，这样他就躲到了一个阴暗的角落里。弗雷德对每个人都表现出尽可能友善的态度，包括里格。如果他对这些比他自认为不幸的人有一些宽容，他绝对不会做出不当行为。尽管如此，还是特别容易笑。

But the entrance of the lawyer and the two brothers drew every one’s attention. The lawyer was Mr. Standish, and he had come to Stone Court this morning believing that he knew thoroughly well who would be pleased and who disappointed before the day was over. The will he expected to read was the last of three which he had drawn up for Mr. Featherstone. Mr. Standish was not a man who varied his manners: he behaved with the same deep-voiced, off-hand civility to everybody, as if he saw no difference in them, and talked chiefly of the hay-crop, which would be ‘very fine, by God!’ of the last bulletins concerning the King, and of the Duke of Clarence, who was a sailor every inch of him, and just the man to rule over an island like Britain.
但律师和两兄弟的到来却引起了所有人的注意。律师是斯坦迪什先生，他今天早上来到斯通法庭，相信在这一天结束之前他就清楚地知道谁会高兴，谁会失望。他预计要宣读的遗嘱是他为费瑟斯通先生起草的三份遗嘱中的最后一份。斯坦迪什先生并不是一个举止多变的人：他对每个人都表现出同样的低沉、随意的礼貌，好像他看不出他们有什么不同，并且主要谈论干草作物，这将是“非常好，上帝啊！”关于国王和克拉伦斯公爵的最后公告，克拉伦斯公爵浑身都是水手，正是统治像不列颠这样的岛屿的人。

Old Featherstone had often reflected as he sat looking at the fire that Standish would be surprised some day: it is true that if he had done as he liked at the last, and burnt the will drawn up by another lawyer, he would not have secured that minor end; still he had had his pleasure in ruminating on it. And certainly Mr. Standish was surprised, but not at all sorry; on the contrary, he rather enjoyed the zest of a little curiosity in his own mind, which the discovery of a second will added to the prospective amazement on the part of the Featherstone family.
老费瑟斯通坐在那儿望着火光时常常想到，斯坦迪什有一天会感到惊讶：确实，如果他最后按照自己的意愿行事，烧毁了另一位律师起草的遗嘱，他就无法获得安全。那个小结局；但他仍然乐于思考它。斯坦迪什先生当然感到惊讶，但一点也不感到遗憾。相反，他相当享受自己心中的一点好奇心，第二份遗嘱的发现让费瑟斯通家族的未来更加惊讶。

As to the sentiments of Solomon and Jonah, they were held in utter suspense: it seemed to them that the old will would have a certain validity, and that there might be such an interlacement of poor Peter’s former and latter intentions as to create endless ‘lawing’ before anybody came by their own—an inconvenience which would have at least the advantage of going all round. Hence the brothers showed a thoroughly neutral gravity as they re-entered with Mr. Standish; but Solomon took out his white handkerchief again with a sense that in any case there would be affecting passages, and crying at funerals, however dry, was customarily served up in lawn.
至于所罗门和约拿的感情，他们完全悬而未决：在他们看来，旧的遗嘱有一定的有效性，而可怜的彼得的前后意图可能会交织在一起，从而创造出无穷无尽的“结果”。在任何人自己来之前就“法律”——这种不便至少有一个好处就是绕过去。因此，当兄弟俩和斯坦迪什先生一起重新进入时，他们表现出了完全中立的严肃态度。但所罗门再次拿出了他的白手帕，他意识到无论如何都会有感人的段落，葬礼上的哭泣，无论多么干燥，通常都会在草坪上进行。

Perhaps the person who felt the most throbbing excitement at this moment was Mary Garth, in the consciousness that it was she who had virtually determined the production of this second will, which might have momentous effects on the lot of some persons present. No soul except herself knew what had passed on that final night.
也许此时此刻感到最激动的人是玛丽·加斯，因为她意识到实际上是她决定了第二份遗嘱的制定，这可能会对在场的一些人的命运产生重大影响。除了她自己，没有人知道最后一晚发生了什么。

‘The will I hold in my hand,’ said Mr. Standish, who, seated at the table in the middle of the room, took his time about everything, including the coughs with which he showed a disposition to clear his voice, ‘was drawn up by myself and executed by our deceased friend on the 9th of August, 1825. But I find that there is a subsequent instrument hitherto unknown to me, bearing date the 20th of July, 1826, hardly a year later than the previous one. And there is farther, I see’—Mr. Standish was cautiously travelling over the document with his spectacles—‘a codicil to this latter will, bearing date March 1, 1828.’
“我手里握着的遗嘱，”斯坦迪什先生说，他坐在房间中央的桌子旁，从容地处理一切事情，包括他表现出想要澄清声音的咳嗽声。由我本人起草，并由我们已故的朋友于 1825 年 8 月 9 日执行。但我发现有一份我迄今未知的后续文书，日期为 1826 年 7 月 20 日，比前一份文书晚了几乎一年。我明白了，还有更远的地方”——先生。斯坦迪什戴着眼镜，小心翼翼地浏览着这份文件——“后一份遗嘱的附录，日期为 1828 年 3 月 1 日。”

‘Dear, dear!’ said sister Martha, not meaning to be audible, but driven to some articulation under this pressure of dates.
“亲爱的，亲爱的！”玛莎修女说道，她的本意不是要让别人听见，而是在约会的压力下不得不说出一些话来。

‘I shall begin by reading the earlier will,’ continued Mr. Standish, ‘since such, as appears by his not having destroyed the document, was the intention of deceased.’
“我将从阅读之前的遗嘱开始，”斯坦迪什先生继续说道，“因为从他没有销毁这份文件来看，这就是死者的意图。”

The preamble was felt to be rather long, and several besides Solomon shook their heads pathetically, looking on the ground: all eyes avoided meeting other eyes, and were chiefly fixed either on the spots in the table-cloth or on Mr. Standish’s bald head; excepting Mary Garth’s. When all the rest were trying to look nowhere in particular, it was safe for her to look at them. And at the sound of the first ‘give and bequeath’ she could see all complexions changing subtly, as if some faint vibration were passing through them, save that of Mr. Rigg. He sat in unaltered calm, and, in fact, the company, preoccupied with more important problems, and with the complication of listening to bequests which might or might not be revoked, had ceased to think of him. Fred blushed, and Mr. Vincy found it impossible to do without his snuff-box in his hand, though he kept it closed.
序言感觉相当长，除了所罗门之外，还有几个人可怜兮兮地摇着头，看着地面：所有的目光都避免与其他人的目光相遇，主要要么盯着桌布上的斑点，要么盯着斯坦迪什先生的光头。 ;玛丽·加思的除外。当其他人都试图看向别处时，她看着他们是安全的。当听到第一声“给予和遗赠”的声音时，她看到所有人的脸色都发生了微妙的变化，仿佛有某种微弱的振动在他们身上传递，除了里格先生。他坐在那儿一如往常的平静，事实上，公司全神贯注于更重要的问题，以及听取可能会或可能不会撤销的遗赠的复杂情况，已经不再想到他了。弗雷德脸红了，文西先生发现手里没有鼻烟盒是不可能的，尽管他一直把鼻烟盒关着。

The small bequests came first, and even the recollection that there was another will and that poor Peter might have thought better of it, could not quell the rising disgust and indignation. One likes to be done well by in every tense, past, present, and future. And here was Peter capable five years ago of leaving only two hundred apiece to his own brothers and sisters, and only a hundred apiece to his own nephews and nieces: the Garths were not mentioned, but Mrs. Vincy and Rosamond were each to have a hundred. Mr. Trumbull was to have the gold-headed cane and fifty pounds; the other second cousins and the cousins present were each to have the like handsome sum, which, as the saturnine cousin observed, was a sort of legacy that left a man nowhere; and there was much more of such offensive dribbling in favor of persons not present— problematical, and, it was to be feared, low connections. Altogether, reckoning hastily, here were about three thousand disposed of. Where then had Peter meant the rest of the money to go— and where the land? and what was revoked and what not revoked— and was the revocation for better or for worse? All emotion must be conditional, and might turn out to be the wrong thing. The men were strong enough to bear up and keep quiet under this confused suspense; some letting their lower lip fall, others pursing it up, according to the habit of their muscles. But Jane and Martha sank under the rush of questions, and began to cry; poor Mrs. Cranch being half moved with the consolation of getting any hundreds at all without working for them, and half aware that her share was scanty; whereas Mrs. Waule’s mind was entirely flooded with the sense of being an own sister and getting little, while somebody else was to have much. The general expectation now was that the ‘much’ would fall to Fred Vincy, but the Vincys themselves were surprised when ten thousand pounds in specified investments were declared to be bequeathed to him:—was the land coming too? Fred bit his lips: it was difficult to help smiling, and Mrs. Vincy felt herself the happiest of women—possible revocation shrinking out of sight in this dazzling vision.
小额遗赠是第一位的，甚至回想起还有另一份遗嘱以及可怜的彼得可能考虑得更好，都无法平息不断上升的厌恶和愤慨。人们喜欢在过去、现在和将来的每一种时态中都表现出色。五年前，彼得只给自己的兄弟姐妹每人留下了两百块，给自己的侄子侄女每人只留下了一百块：没有提到加思夫妇，但文西夫人和罗莎蒙德夫人每人都有一个百。特朗布尔先生将得到金头手杖和五十英镑；其他的堂兄弟姐妹和在场的堂兄弟姐妹每个人都拥有同样可观的金额，正如阴郁的表兄弟所观察到的那样，这是一种没有留下任何人的遗产；而且这种有利于不在场的人的进攻性带球次数更多——这是有问题的，而且，令人担心的是，联系较少。匆忙算了一下，总共大约有三千人被处理掉。那么，彼得打算把剩下的钱花到哪里去呢？土地呢？什么被撤销了，什么没有被撤销——撤销是好是坏？所有的情绪都必须是有条件的，并且可能会变成错误的事情。在这种混乱的悬念之下，人们有足够的力量承受并保持安静。有的人下唇下垂，有的人则撅起来，这取决于他们肌肉的习惯。但简和玛莎却被一连串的问题淹没了，哭了起来。可怜的克兰奇太太在不为他们工作的情况下就得到了几百块钱，这让她感到有些欣慰，同时也意识到自己的份额很少。而沃勒夫人的​​脑子里却充满了这样一种感觉：作为自己的妹妹，她得到的很少，而别人则拥有很多。 现在普遍的预期是“大部分”将落在弗雷德·文西的头上，但当文西一家宣布将一万英镑的指定投资遗赠给他时，他们自己都感到惊讶：土地也来了吗？弗雷德咬着嘴唇：很难不微笑，文西夫人觉得自己是最幸福的女人——在这令人眼花缭乱的景象中，可能的撤销在视野中消失了。

There was still a residue of personal property as well as the land, but the whole was left to one person, and that person was— O possibilities! O expectations founded on the favor of ‘close’ old gentlemen! O endless vocatives that would still leave expression slipping helpless from the measurement of mortal folly!— that residuary legatee was Joshua Rigg, who was also sole executor, and who was to take thenceforth the name of Featherstone.
虽然还有剩余的个人财产和土地，但全部都留给了一个人，而那个人就是——啊，可能性！噢，建立在“亲密”老先生们的青睐之上的期望啊！哦，无尽的呼唤，仍然会让表情从致命的愚蠢的衡量中变得无助！——那个剩余的遗产继承人是约书亚·里格，他也是唯一的遗嘱执行人，从那时起他就以费瑟斯通的名字命名。

There was a rustling which seemed like a shudder running round the room. Every one stared afresh at Mr. Rigg, who apparently experienced no surprise.
房间里传来一阵沙沙声，似乎在颤抖。每个人都重新注视着里格先生，他显然并没有感到惊讶。

‘A most singular testamentary disposition!’ exclaimed Mr. Trumbull, preferring for once that he should be considered ignorant in the past. ‘But there is a second will—there is a further document. We have not yet heard the final wishes of the deceased.’
“这是最奇特的遗嘱安排！”特朗布尔先生惊呼道，他第一次宁愿被认为是他过去的无知。 “但是还有第二份遗嘱——还有一份进一步的文件。我们还没有听到死者的最后愿望。”

Mary Garth was feeling that what they had yet to hear were not the final wishes. The second will revoked everything except the legacies to the low persons before mentioned (some alterations in these being the occasion of the codicil), and the bequest of all the land lying in Lowick parish with all the stock and household furniture, to Joshua Rigg. The residue of the property was to be devoted to the erection and endowment of almshouses for old men, to be called Featherstone’s Alms-Houses, and to be built on a piece of land near Middlemarch already bought for the purpose by the testator, he wishing—so the document declared—to please God Almighty. Nobody present had a farthing; but Mr. Trumbull had the gold-headed cane. It took some time for the company to recover the power of expression. Mary dared not look at Fred.
玛丽·加斯觉得他们还没听到的并不是最后的愿望。第二份遗嘱撤销了一切，除了前面提到的低等人的遗产（其中一些修改是在附录的场合），以及将洛威克教区的所有土地以及所有库存和家用家具遗赠给约书亚·里格。剩余的财产将专门用于为老人建造和捐赠救济院，称为费瑟斯通救济院，并建在米德尔马奇附近的一块土地上，遗嘱人已经为此目的购买了一块土地，他希望——文件如此宣称——为了取悦全能的上帝。在场的人都没有一文钱。但特朗布尔先生拿着金头手杖。公司花了一些时间才恢复表达能力。玛丽不敢看弗雷德。

Mr. Vincy was the first to speak—after using his snuff- box energetically—and he spoke with loud indignation. ‘The most unaccountable will I ever heard! I should say he was not in his right mind when he made it. I should say this last will was void,’ added Mr. Vincy, feeling that this expression put the thing in the true light. ‘Eh Standish?’
文西先生第一个说话了——他用力地用了他的鼻烟壶——他的讲话充满了愤怒。 “这是我听过的最不负责任的说法！我应该说，当他做到这一点时，他的心智不正常。我应该说这最后一份遗嘱是无效的。”文西先生补充道，他觉得这个表达让事情真相大白。 “呃斯坦迪什？”

‘Our deceased friend always knew what he was about, I think,’ said Mr. Standish. ‘Everything is quite regular. Here is a letter from Clemmens of Brassing tied with the will. He drew it up. A very respectable solicitor.’
“我想，我们已故的朋友一直都知道他在做什么，”斯坦迪什先生说。 ‘一切都很有规律。这是一封来自黄铜辛的克莱门斯的信，附有遗嘱。他把它画出来了。一位非常受人尊敬的律师。”

‘I never noticed any alienation of mind—any aberration of intellect in the late Mr. Featherstone,’ said Borthrop Trumbull, ‘but I call this will eccentric. I was always willingly of service to the old soul; and he intimated pretty plainly a sense of obligation which would show itself in his will. The gold-headed cane is farcical considered as an acknowledgment to me; but happily I am above mercenary considerations.’
“我从未注意到已故的费瑟斯通先生有任何思想上的疏离——任何智力上的失常，”博思罗普·特朗布尔说，“但我称这为意志怪异。”我总是心甘情愿地为老灵魂服务。他非常清楚地暗示了一种义务感，这种义务感会在他的遗嘱中表现出来。滑稽的是，金头手杖被认为是对我的认可；但幸运的是我不考虑唯利是图的考虑。

‘There’s nothing very surprising in the matter that I can see,’ said Caleb Garth. ‘Anybody might have had more reason for wondering if the will had been what you might expect from an open-minded straightforward man. For my part, I wish there was no such thing as a will.’
“我所看到的事情并没有什么非常令人惊讶的，”凯莱布·加斯说。 “任何人可能都有更多的理由想知道遗嘱是否是你所期望的一个思想开放、直率的人的遗嘱。就我而言，我希望没有遗嘱这样的东西。

‘That’s a strange sentiment to come from a Christian man, by God!’ said the lawyer. ‘I should like to know how you will back that up, Garth!’
“上帝啊，这样的情绪出自一个基督徒之口，真是奇怪！”律师说。 “我想知道你如何支持这一点，加斯！”

‘Oh,’ said Caleb, leaning forward, adjusting his finger-tips with nicety and looking meditatively on the ground. It always seemed to him that words were the hardest part of ‘business.’
“哦，”凯莱布说，身体前倾，巧妙地调整着指尖，若有所思地看着地面。在他看来，言语始终是“生意”中最难的部分。

But here Mr. Jonah Featherstone made himself heard. ‘Well, he always was a fine hypocrite, was my brother Peter. But this will cuts out everything. If I’d known, a wagon and six horses shouldn’t have drawn me from Brassing. I’ll put a white hat and drab coat on to-morrow.’
但乔纳·费瑟斯通先生在这里表达了自己的观点。 “好吧，他一直是个很好的伪君子，就是我的兄弟彼得。但这将消除一切。如果我知道的话，一辆马车和六匹马就不应该把我从布拉辛拉出来。明天我会戴上白帽子，穿上土褐色外套。”

‘Dear, dear,’ wept Mrs. Cranch, ‘and we’ve been at the expense of travelling, and that poor lad sitting idle here so long! It’s the first time I ever heard my brother Peter was so wishful to please God Almighty; but if I was to be struck helpless I must say it’s hard—I can think no other.’
“亲爱的，亲爱的，”克兰奇太太哭着说，“我们已经浪费了旅行的时间，而那个可怜的小伙子却在这里闲坐了这么久！”这是我第一次听说我的兄弟彼得如此渴望取悦全能的上帝；但如果我感到无助，我必须说这很难——我想不出其他的了。

‘It’ll do him no good where he’s gone, that’s my belief,’ said Solomon, with a bitterness which was remarkably genuine, though his tone could not help being sly. ‘Peter was a bad liver, and almshouses won’t cover it, when he’s had the impudence to show it at the last.’
“我相信他去哪儿对他没有好处，”所罗门说，语气中带着明显的苦涩，尽管他的语气不免有些狡猾。 “彼得的肝脏不好，济贫院不会资助他，因为他最后竟然厚颜无耻地表现出来了。”

‘And all the while had got his own lawful family—brothers and sisters and nephews and nieces—and has sat in church with ‘em whenever he thought well to come,’ said Mrs. Waule. ‘And might have left his property so respectable, to them that’s never been used to extravagance or unsteadiness in no manner of way—and not so poor but what they could have saved every penny and made more of it. And me—the trouble I’ve been at, times and times, to come here and be sisterly—and him with things on his mind all the while that might make anybody’s flesh creep. But if the Almighty’s allowed it, he means to punish him for it. Brother Solomon, I shall be going, if you’ll drive me.’
“一直以来，他都有自己的合法家庭——兄弟姐妹、侄子侄女——只要他想来，他就会和他们一起坐在教堂里，”沃勒夫人说。 “对于那些从来没有习惯于铺张浪费或不稳定的人来说，他的财产本来可以如此受人尊敬——而且不是那么贫穷，但他们可以节省每一分钱并赚得更多。”而我——我一次又一次地遇到麻烦，来到这里和姐妹们在一起——而他心里一直想着一些可能会让任何人毛骨悚然的事情。但如果全能者允许的话，他就打算为此惩罚他。所罗门弟兄，如果你开车送我的话，我就走了。

‘I’ve no desire to put my foot on the premises again,’ said Solomon. ‘I’ve got land of my own and property of my own to will away.’
“我不想再踏足这里，”所罗门说。 “我有自己的土地和财产可以遗失。”

‘It’s a poor tale how luck goes in the world,’ said Jonah. ‘It never answers to have a bit of spirit in you. You’d better be a dog in the manger. But those above ground might learn a lesson. One fool’s will is enough in a family.’
乔纳说：“这个世界上的运气真是一个糟糕的故事。” ‘你内心有一点精神是永远不会有答案的。你最好还是做马槽里的狗。但地面上的人可能会吸取教训。在一个家庭里，一个傻瓜的意志就足够了。

‘There’s more ways than one of being a fool,’ said Solomon. ‘I shan’t leave my money to be poured down the sink, and I shan’t leave it to foundlings from Africay. I like Feather, stones that were brewed such, and not turned Featherstones with sticking the name on ‘em.’
“成为傻瓜的方法不止一种，”所罗门说。 “我不会让我的钱被倒进水槽，我也不会把它留给来自非洲的弃儿。我喜欢羽毛石，这种石头是这样酿造的，而不是把名字贴在上面而变成羽毛石。

Solomon addressed these remarks in a loud aside to Mrs. Waule as he rose to accompany her. Brother Jonah felt himself capable of much more stinging wit than this, but he reflected that there was no use in offending the new proprietor of Stone Court, until you were certain that he was quite without intentions of hospitality towards witty men whose name he was about to bear.
所罗门起身陪伴沃勒夫人，并在旁边大声对她说了这些话。乔纳修士觉得自己的机智比这更尖刻，但他反思说，冒犯石庭的新主人是没有用的，除非你确定他对那些与他的名字有关的机智的人毫无热情。忍受忍受。

Mr. Joshua Rigg, in fact, appeared to trouble himself little about any innuendoes, but showed a notable change of manner, walking coolly up to Mr. Standish and putting business questions with much coolness. He had a high chirping voice and a vile accent. Fred, whom he no longer moved to laughter, thought him the lowest monster he had ever seen. But Fred was feeling rather sick. The Middlemarch mercer waited for an opportunity of engaging Mr. Rigg in conversation: there was no knowing how many pairs of legs the new proprietor might require hose for, and profits were more to be relied on than legacies. Also, the mercer, as a second cousin, was dispassionate enough to feel curiosity.
事实上，约书亚·里格先生似乎并没有为任何暗示而烦恼，但他的态度却发生了显着的变化，他冷静地走到斯坦迪什先生面前，冷静地提出了商业问题。他声音高亢，口音粗俗。弗雷德不再让他发笑，认为他是他见过的最低等的怪物。但弗雷德感觉很不舒服。米德尔马契的商人等待着与里格先生交谈的机会：不知道新东主可能需要软管多少对​​腿，而且利润比遗产更值得依赖。而且，这位商人作为远房堂兄，冷静得足以让人感到好奇。

Mr. Vincy, after his one outburst, had remained proudly silent, though too much preoccupied with unpleasant feelings to think of moving, till he observed that his wife had gone to Fred’s side and was crying silently while she held her darling’s hand. He rose immediately, and turning his back on the company while he said to her in an undertone,—‘Don’t give way, Lucy; don’t make a fool of yourself, my dear, before these people,’ he added in his usual loud voice—‘Go and order the phaeton, Fred; I have no time to waste.’
文西先生在他的一次爆发之后，一直骄傲地保持着沉默，尽管他全神贯注于不愉快的感觉，没有想到要移动，直到他发现他的妻子走到弗雷德身边，握着她亲爱的手，默默地哭泣。他立即站起来，背对着众人，低声对她说：“别让步，露西；别让步，露西。”亲爱的，别在这些人面前出丑，”他用一如既往的大声补充道，“去订一辆四轮马车吧，弗雷德；我没有时间可以浪费。

Mary Garth had before this been getting ready to go home with her father. She met Fred in the hall, and now for the first time had the courage to look at him He had that withered sort of paleness which will sometimes come on young faces, and his hand was very cold when she shook it. Mary too was agitated; she was conscious that fatally, without will of her own, she had perhaps made a great difference to Fred’s lot.
玛丽·加思在此之前一直准备和父亲一起回家。她在大厅里遇见了弗雷德，现在第一次有勇气看着他。他有一种枯萎的苍白，有时会出现在年轻的脸上，当她握着他的手时，他的手非常冰冷。玛丽也很激动。她意识到，致命的是，尽管她没有自己的意愿，但她也许给弗雷德的命运带来了巨大的改变。

‘Good-by,’ she said, with affectionate sadness. ‘Be brave, Fred. I do believe you are better without the money. What was the good of it to Mr. Featherstone?’
“再见，”她带着深情的悲伤说道。 “勇敢一点，弗雷德。我相信没有钱你会过得更好。这对费瑟斯通先生有什么好处呢？

‘That’s all very fine,’ said Fred, pettishly. ‘What is a fellow to do? I must go into the Church now.’ (He knew that this would vex Mary: very well; then she must tell him what else he could do.) ‘And I thought I should be able to pay your father at once and make everything right. And you have not even a hundred pounds left you. What shall you do now, Mary?’
“那很好，”弗雷德生气地说。 ‘一个人要做什么？我现在必须去教堂了。”（他知道这会让玛丽烦恼：很好；然后她必须告诉他还能做什么。）“我想我应该能够立即付钱给你父亲并让一切正确的。而你连一百英镑都剩下了。玛丽，你现在该怎么办？

‘Take another situation, of course, as soon as I can get one. My father has enough to do to keep the rest, without me. Good-by.’
“当然，一旦我能找到一种情况，就采取另一种情况。没有我，我父亲有足够的事情要做来维持剩下的时间。有效期。'

In a very short time Stone Court was cleared of well-brewed Featherstones and other long-accustomed visitors. Another stranger had been brought to settle in the neighborhood of Middlemarch, but in the case of Mr. Rigg Featherstone there was more discontent with immediate visible consequences than speculation as to the effect which his presence might have in the future. No soul was prophetic enough to have any foreboding as to what might appear on the trial of Joshua Rigg.
很快，斯通庭院里就没有了精心酿制的费瑟斯通啤酒和其他长期习惯的访客。另一个陌生人被带到米德尔马奇附近定居，但就里格·费瑟斯通先生而言，人们对直接可见后果的不满更多，而不是对他的存在未来可能产生的影响的猜测。没有人有足够的预言能力对约书亚·里格的审判中可能出现的情况有任何不祥的预感。

And here I am naturally led to reflect on the means of elevating a low subject. Historical parallels are remarkably efficient in this way. The chief objection to them is, that the diligent narrator may lack space, or (what is often the same thing) may not be able to think of them with any degree of particularity, though he may have a philosophical confidence that if known they would be illustrative. It seems an easier and shorter way to dignity, to observe that— since there never was a true story which could not be told in parables, where you might put a monkey for a margrave, and vice versa— whatever has been or is to be narrated by me about low people, may be ennobled by being considered a parable; so that if any bad habits and ugly consequences are brought into view, the reader may have the relief of regarding them as not more than figuratively ungenteel, and may feel himself virtually in company with persons of some style. Thus while I tell the truth about loobies, my reader’s imagination need not be entirely excluded from an occupation with lords; and the petty sums which any bankrupt of high standing would be sorry to retire upon, may be lifted to the level of high commercial transactions by the inexpensive addition of proportional ciphers.
在这里，我自然而然地想到了提升低级主体的方法。通过这种方式，历史的相似性是非常有效的。对它们的主要反对意见是，勤奋的叙述者可能缺乏空间，或者（通常是同一件事）可能无法以任何程度的特殊性来思考它们，尽管他可能有一个哲学信心，如果知道它们会具有说明性。这似乎是通往尊严的一种更简单、更快捷的方式，观察这一点——因为从来没有一个真实的故事不能用寓言来讲述，你可以用一只猴子作为侯爵，反之亦然——无论过去或将来如何我所讲述的关于低等人的事，可以通过被认为是寓言而变得高贵；因此，如果看到任何坏习惯和丑陋的后果，读者可能会感到宽慰，认为它们只不过是象征性的不礼貌，并且可能会觉得自己实际上与某种风格的人在一起。因此，当我讲述关于卢比的真相时，我的读者的想象力不必完全排除在与领主的职业之外。任何名声大噪的破产者在退休时都会感到遗憾的小额资金，可以通过廉价地添加比例密码而提升到高级商业交易的水平。

As to any provincial history in which the agents are all of high moral rank, that must be of a date long posterior to the first Reform Bill, and Peter Featherstone, you perceive, was dead and buried some months before Lord Grey came into office.
至于任何省级历史，其中的代理人都是道德高尚的人，那一定是在第一个改革法案之后很久的日期，你知道彼得·费瑟斯通在格雷勋爵上任之前几个月就已经去世并被埋葬了。

CHAPTER XXXVI
第三十六章

‘Tis strange to see the humors of these men,
“看到这些人的幽默感很奇怪，

These great aspiring spirits, that should be wise:
这些伟大的有抱负的精神，应该是明智的：

For being the nature of great spirits to love
因为伟大精神的本质就是去爱

To be where they may be most eminent;
成为他们最杰出的人；

They, rating of themselves so farre above
他们对自己的评价远远高于

Us in conceit, with whom they do frequent,
我们自负，他们经常和我们在一起，

Imagine how we wonder and esteeme
想象一下我们如何惊奇和尊重

All that they do or say; which makes them strive
他们所做或所说的一切；这让他们努力

To make our admiration more extreme,
让我们的敬佩更加极致，

Which they suppose they cannot, ‘less they give
他们认为他们不能，“除非他们给予

Notice of their extreme and highest thoughts.
注意他们的极端和最高思想。

—DANIEL: Tragedy of Philotas.
——丹尼尔：菲罗塔斯的悲剧。

Mr. Vincy went home from the reading of the will with his point of view considerably changed in relation to many subjects. He was an open-minded man, but given to indirect modes of expressing himself: when he was disappointed in a market for his silk braids, he swore at the groom; when his brother-in-law Bulstrode had vexed him, he made cutting remarks on Methodism; and it was now apparent that he regarded Fred’s idleness with a sudden increase of severity, by his throwing an embroidered cap out of the smoking-room on to the hall-floor.
文西先生读完遗嘱回家后，他的观点在许多主题上发生了很大的变化。他是一个思想开放的人，但习惯于以间接的方式表达自己：当他对丝绸辫子的市场感到失望时，他咒骂新郎；当他的妹夫布尔斯特罗德惹恼了他时，他就对卫理公会发表尖刻的言论。现在很明显，他把一顶绣花帽子从吸烟室扔到大厅的地板上，对弗雷德的懒惰态度突然变得更加严厉。

‘Well, sir,’ he observed, when that young gentleman was moving off to bed, ‘I hope you’ve made up your mind now to go up next term and pass your examination. I’ve taken my resolution, so I advise you to lose no time in taking yours.’
“好吧，先生，”当那位年轻的绅士准备上床睡觉时，他说道，“我希望您现在已经下定决心，下学期继续升学并通过考试。”我已经做出了决定，所以我建议你抓紧时间做出你的决定。

Fred made no answer: he was too utterly depressed. Twenty-four hours ago he had thought that instead of needing to know what he should do, he should by this time know that he needed to do nothing: that he should hunt in pink, have a first-rate hunter, ride to cover on a fine hack, and be generally respected for doing so; moreover, that he should be able at once to pay Mr. Garth, and that Mary could no longer have any reason for not marrying him. And all this was to have come without study or other inconvenience, purely by the favor of providence in the shape of an old gentleman’s caprice. But now, at the end of the twenty-four hours, all those firm expectations were upset. It was ‘rather hard lines’ that while he was smarting under this disappointment he should be treated as if he could have helped it. But he went away silently and his mother pleaded for him.
弗雷德没有回答：他太沮丧了。二十四小时前，他以为他不需要知道自己应该做什么，而此时他应该知道自己不需要做任何事情：他应该穿着粉红色的衣服去狩猎，拥有一流的猎人，骑马掩护出色的黑客行为，并因此而受到普遍尊重；此外，他应该能够立即支付加斯先生的费用，玛丽再也没有任何理由不嫁给他了。而这一切的发生，无需任何研究或其他麻烦，纯粹是由于一位老绅士的反复无常而得到的眷顾。但现在，二十四小时结束后，所有这些坚定的期望都被打乱了。这是“相当强硬的路线”，尽管他因这种失望而感到痛苦，但他应该被对待，就好像他可以帮助它一样。但他默默地离开了，他的母亲为他求情。

‘Don’t be hard on the poor boy, Vincy. He’ll turn out well yet, though that wicked man has deceived him. I feel as sure as I sit here, Fred will turn out well—else why was he brought back from the brink of the grave? And I call it a robbery: it was like giving him the land, to promise it; and what is promising, if making everybody believe is not promising? And you see he did leave him ten thousand pounds, and then took it away again.’
“别对这个可怜的男孩太严厉，文西。尽管那个恶人欺骗了他，但他的结局还是会好的。我坐在这里确信弗雷德会好起来的——否则为什么他会从坟墓的边缘被拉回来呢？我称之为抢劫：这就像给他土地，并承诺它；如果让每个人都相信没有希望，那么什么是有希望的呢？你看，他确实给他留下了一万英镑，然后又拿走了。”

‘Took it away again!’ said Mr. Vincy, pettishly. ‘I tell you the lad’s an unlucky lad, Lucy. And you’ve always spoiled him.’
“又把它拿走了！”文西先生生气地说。 “我告诉你，这小伙子是个不幸的小伙子，露西。而你总是把他宠坏了。

‘Well, Vincy, he was my first, and you made a fine fuss with him when he came. You were as proud as proud,’ said Mrs. Vincy, easily recovering her cheerful smile.
“好吧，文西，他是我的第一个，他来的时候你对他大惊小怪。 “你真是太骄傲了。”文西夫人轻松地恢复了她愉快的微笑。

‘Who knows what babies will turn to? I was fool enough, I dare say,’ said the husband—more mildly, however.
“谁知道婴儿会转向什么？我敢说，我真是太傻了。”丈夫说道，不过语气更加温和了。

‘But who has handsomer, better children than ours? Fred is far beyond other people’s sons: you may hear it in his speech, that he has kept college company. And Rosamond—where is there a girl like her? She might stand beside any lady in the land, and only look the better for it. You see—Mr. Lydgate has kept the highest company and been everywhere, and he fell in love with her at once. Not but what I could have wished Rosamond had not engaged herself. She might have met somebody on a visit who would have been a far better match; I mean at her schoolfellow Miss Willoughby’s. There are relations in that family quite as high as Mr. Lydgate’s.’
“但是谁的孩子比我们的更漂亮、更好呢？弗雷德远远超出了其他人的儿子：你可能会在他的演讲中听到，他一直陪伴着大学。还有罗莎蒙德——哪里有像她这样的女孩？她可能站在这个国家的任何一位女士旁边，而且只会因此看起来更好。你看——先生。利德盖特一直与最高层为伴，到处都是，他立刻就爱上了她。但我本希望罗莎蒙德没有参与其中。她可能会在一次访问中遇到一个更适合的人；我指的是她的同学威洛比小姐家。那个家族里的亲戚与利德盖特先生的家族一样高。

‘Damn relations!’ said Mr. Vincy; ‘I’ve had enough of them. I don’t want a son-in-law who has got nothing but his relations to recommend him.’
“该死的亲戚！”文西先生说。 ‘我已经受够了。我不想让一个除了亲戚之外一无所有的女婿来推荐他。

‘Why, my dear,’ said Mrs. Vincy, ‘you seemed as pleased as could be about it. It’s true, I wasn’t at home; but Rosamond told me you hadn’t a word to say against the engagement. And she has begun to buy in the best linen and cambric for her underclothing.’
“哎呀，亲爱的，”文西夫人说，“你看起来对此非常高兴。”确实，我不在家；但罗莎蒙德告诉我，你没有一句话反对这桩婚事。她已经开始购买最好的亚麻布和麻布作为她的内衣。

‘Not by my will,’ said Mr. Vincy. ‘I shall have enough to do this year, with an idle scamp of a son, without paying for wedding-clothes. The times are as tight as can be; everybody is being ruined; and I don’t believe Lydgate has got a farthing. I shan’t give my consent to their marrying. Let ‘em wait, as their elders have done before ‘em.’
“不是我的意愿，”文西先生说。 “今年我有足够多的事情要做了，带着一个游手好闲的儿子，不用付结婚礼服的钱。”时间非常紧迫；每个人都在被毁掉；我不相信利德盖特一分钱都没有。我不会同意他们结婚。让他们等待，就像他们的长辈在他们面前所做的那样。

‘Rosamond will take it hard, Vincy, and you know you never could bear to cross her.’
“罗莎蒙德会很难受的，文西，你知道你永远无法忍受得罪她。”

‘Yes, I could. The sooner the engagement’s off, the better. I don’t believe he’ll ever make an income, the way he goes on. He makes enemies; that’s all I hear of his making.’
'是的我可以。订婚越早结束越好。我不相信按照他现在的方式，他永远不会有收入。他树敌；这就是我所听到的他所做的一切。

‘But he stands very high with Mr. Bulstrode, my dear. The marriage would please HIM, I should think.’
“但亲爱的，他对布尔斯特罗德先生的评价很高。我想，这桩婚姻会让他高兴的。

‘Please the deuce!’ said Mr. Vincy. ‘Bulstrode won’t pay for their keep. And if Lydgate thinks I’m going to give money for them to set up housekeeping, he’s mistaken, that’s all. I expect I shall have to put down my horses soon. You’d better tell Rosy what I say.’
“请平手！”文西先生说。 “布尔斯特罗德不会支付他们的住宿费。如果利德盖特认为我会出钱让他们建立家政服务，那么他就错了，仅此而已。我预计我很快就要放下我的马了。你最好把我说的话告诉罗西。”

This was a not infrequent procedure with Mr. Vincy—to be rash in jovial assent, and on becoming subsequently conscious that he had been rash, to employ others in making the offensive retractation. However, Mrs. Vincy, who never willingly opposed her husband, lost no time the next morning in letting Rosamond know what he had said. Rosamond, examining some muslin-work, listened in silence, and at the end gave a certain turn of her graceful neck, of which only long experience could teach you that it meant perfect obstinacy.
这对文西先生来说是一种常见的做法——草率地兴致勃勃地表示同意，随后意识到自己太草率了，就雇用其他人来撤回冒犯性的言论。然而，文西夫人从来不愿意反对她的丈夫，第二天早上她立即让罗莎蒙德知道他说的话。罗莎蒙德一边检查着一些细布制品，一边默默地听着，最后她优雅地转动了脖子，只有长期的经验才能告诉你，这意味着完全的固执。

‘What do you say, my dear?’ said her mother, with affectionate deference.
“亲爱的，你说什么？”她母亲满怀深情地恭敬地说。

‘Papa does not mean anything of the kind,’ said Rosamond, quite calmly. ‘He has always said that he wished me to marry the man I loved. And I shall marry Mr. Lydgate. It is seven weeks now since papa gave his consent. And I hope we shall have Mrs. Bretton’s house.’
“爸爸并没有这样的意思。”罗莎蒙德相当平静地说。 “他总是说他希望我嫁给我爱的男人。我将嫁给利德盖特先生。距离爸爸同意已经七个星期了。我希望我们能拥有布雷顿夫人的房子。

‘Well, my dear, I shall leave you to manage your papa. You always do manage everybody. But if we ever do go and get damask, Sadler’s is the place—far better than Hopkins’s. Mrs. Bretton’s is very large, though: I should love you to have such a house; but it will take a great deal of furniture—carpeting and everything, besides plate and glass. And you hear, your papa says he will give no money. Do you think Mr. Lydgate expects it?’
‘好吧，亲爱的，我会让你来管理你的爸爸。你总是能管理好每个人。但如果我们真的要去买锦缎，萨德勒就是那个地方——比霍普金斯的好得多。不过，布雷顿夫人的房子很大：我很高兴你能拥有这样一栋房子；但这需要大量的家具——地毯以及除了盘子和玻璃之外的所有东西。你听到了，你爸爸说他不会给钱。你认为利德盖特先生会预料到吗？

‘You cannot imagine that I should ask him, mamma. Of course he understands his own affairs.’
“你无法想象我会问他，妈妈。他当然了解自己的事情。

‘But he may have been looking for money, my dear, and we all thought of your having a pretty legacy as well as Fred;—and now everything is so dreadful—there’s no pleasure in thinking of anything, with that poor boy disappointed as he is.’
“但是他可能一直在寻找钱，亲爱的，我们都认为你和弗雷德一样拥有一笔漂亮的遗产；——现在一切都那么可怕——想到任何事情都没有乐趣，那个可怜的男孩失望了他是。'

‘That has nothing to do with my marriage, mamma. Fred must leave off being idle. I am going up-stairs to take this work to Miss Morgan: she does the open hemming very well. Mary Garth might do some work for me now, I should think. Her sewing is exquisite; it is the nicest thing I know about Mary. I should so like to have all my cambric frilling double-hemmed. And it takes a long time.’
“这与我的婚姻无关，妈妈。弗雷德必须停止无所事事。我要上楼把这项工作交给摩根小姐：她的开放式包边做得很好。我想，玛丽·加思现在可能会为我做一些工作。她的缝纫技艺精湛；这是我所知道的关于玛丽最好的事情。我真希望我所有的细麻布褶边都是双折边的。这需要很长时间。

Mrs. Vincy’s belief that Rosamond could manage her papa was well founded. Apart from his dinners and his coursing, Mr. Vincy, blustering as he was, had as little of his own way as if he had been a prime minister: the force of circumstances was easily too much for him, as it is for most pleasure-loving florid men; and the circumstance called Rosamond was particularly forcible by means of that mild persistence which, as we know, enables a white soft living substance to make its way in spite of opposing rock. Papa was not a rock: he had no other fixity than that fixity of alternating impulses sometimes called habit, and this was altogether unfavorable to his taking the only decisive line of conduct in relation to his daughter’s engagement—namely, to inquire thoroughly into Lydgate’s circumstances, declare his own inability to furnish money, and forbid alike either a speedy marriage or an engagement which must be too lengthy. That seems very simple and easy in the statement; but a disagreeable resolve formed in the chill hours of the morning had as many conditions against it as the early frost, and rarely persisted under the warming influences of the day. The indirect though emphatic expression of opinion to which Mr. Vincy was prone suffered much restraint in this case: Lydgate was a proud man towards whom innuendoes were obviously unsafe, and throwing his hat on the floor was out of the question. Mr. Vincy was a little in awe of him, a little vain that he wanted to marry Rosamond, a little indisposed to raise a question of money in which his own position was not advantageous, a little afraid of being worsted in dialogue with a man better educated and more highly bred than himself, and a little afraid of doing what his daughter would not like. The part Mr. Vincy preferred playing was that of the generous host whom nobody criticises. In the earlier half of the day there was business to hinder any formal communication of an adverse resolve; in the later there was dinner, wine, whist, and general satisfaction. And in the mean while the hours were each leaving their little deposit and gradually forming the final reason for inaction, namely, that action was too late. The accepted lover spent most of his evenings in Lowick Gate, and a love-making not at all dependent on money-advances from fathers-in-law, or prospective income from a profession, went on flourishingly under Mr. Vincy’s own eyes. Young love-making—that gossamer web! Even the points it clings to—the things whence its subtle interlacings are swung— are scarcely perceptible: momentary touches of fingertips, meetings of rays from blue and dark orbs, unfinished phrases, lightest changes of cheek and lip, faintest tremors. The web itself is made of spontaneous beliefs and indefinable joys, yearnings of one life towards another, visions of completeness, indefinite trust. And Lydgate fell to spinning that web from his inward self with wonderful rapidity, in spite of experience supposed to be finished off with the drama of Laure—in spite too of medicine and biology; for the inspection of macerated muscle or of eyes presented in a dish (like Santa Lucia’s), and other incidents of scientific inquiry, are observed to be less incompatible with poetic love than a native dulness or a lively addiction to the lowest prose. As for Rosamond, she was in the water-lily’s expanding wonderment at its own fuller life, and she too was spinning industriously at the mutual web. All this went on in the corner of the drawing-room where the piano stood, and subtle as it was, the light made it a sort of rainbow visible to many observers besides Mr. Farebrother. The certainty that Miss Vincy and Mr. Lydgate were engaged became general in Middlemarch without the aid of formal announcement.
文西夫人相信罗莎蒙德能够管理好她的爸爸，这是有根据的。除了他的晚餐和他的巡游之外，文西先生虽然气势汹汹，却很少有自己的行事方式，就好像他是一名首相一样：环境的力量对他来说很容易承受不了，因为这对大多数快乐来说都是如此-热爱花色的男人；被称为“罗莎蒙德”的环境尤其具有强大的力量，因为它具有温和的持久性，正如我们所知，这种温和的持久性使白色柔软的生命物质能够在与岩石相对的情况下前进。爸爸不是一块石头：除了有时被称为习惯的交替冲动的固定性之外，他没有其他固定性，这完全不利于他在女儿订婚时采取唯一决定性的行为方针，即彻底调查利德盖特的情况，宣布自己无力提供金钱，并禁止迅速结婚或订婚时间太长。这在声明中看起来非常简单和容易；但是，在寒冷的早晨形成的令人不快的决心与早霜一样有很多条件，而且很少能在白天变暖的影响下持续下去。文西先生倾向于间接但强调地表达意见，但在这种情况下却受到了很大的限制：利德盖特是一个骄傲的人，对他进行暗示显然是不安全的，把他的帽子扔到地板上是不可能的。文西先生对他有点敬畏，有点自负地想娶罗莎蒙德，有点不愿意提出金钱问题，而他自己的地位并不有利，有点害怕在与男人对话时被打败。他比他受过更好的教育，更有教养，而且有点害怕做他女儿不喜欢的事情。先生部分 文西更喜欢扮演慷慨的主人，没有人批评他。当天早些时候，有事阻碍任何关于不利决定的正式沟通；后来有晚餐，有酒，有惠斯特，总体满意。与此同时，每一个小时都留下了一点点存款，并逐渐形成了不采取行动的最终原因，即行动太晚了。这位公认的情人晚上的大部分时间都在洛威克门度过，做爱完全不依赖于岳父的预付款，也不依赖于职业的预期收入，在文西先生的眼皮子底下进行得很顺利。年轻时的做爱——那张薄纱网！甚至它所依附的点——其微妙的交织所摆动的东西——也几乎无法被察觉：指尖的瞬间触摸，蓝色和黑色球体发出的光线的相遇，未完成的短语，脸颊和嘴唇的最轻微的变化，最轻微的颤抖。网络本身是由自发的信念和无法定义的快乐、一种生活对另一种生活的渴望、完整的愿景、无限期的信任组成的。利德盖特开始以惊人的速度从他的内心开始编织这张网，尽管他的经历应该以劳尔的戏剧结束——尽管还有医学和生物学；人们观察到，检查浸软的肌肉或盘子里的眼睛（比如圣卢西亚的眼睛），以及其他科学探究事件，与天生的迟钝或对最低级散文的强烈沉迷相比，与诗意的爱情更不相容。至于罗莎蒙德，她正沉浸在睡莲对自己更加充实的生命不断扩大的惊叹中，她也在共同的网上勤奋地旋转。 所有这一切都发生在客厅角落里，钢琴所在的地方，虽然光线很微妙，但除了费尔布拉泽先生之外，许多观察者都可以看到它的光线，就像彩虹一样。在没有正式宣布的情况下，文西小姐和利德盖特先生订婚的确定性在米德尔马契已成为普遍现象。

Aunt Bulstrode was again stirred to anxiety; but this time she addressed herself to her brother, going to the warehouse expressly to avoid Mrs. Vincy’s volatility. His replies were not satisfactory.
布尔斯特罗德姨妈再次感到焦虑。但这一次，她向哥哥求助，特意去了仓库，以避免文西夫人的情绪波动。他的答复并不令人满意。

‘Walter, you never mean to tell me that you have allowed all this to go on without inquiry into Mr. Lydgate’s prospects?’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, opening her eyes with wider gravity at her brother, who was in his peevish warehouse humor. ‘Think of this girl brought up in luxury—in too worldly a way, I am sorry to say— what will she do on a small income?’
“沃尔特，你难道不想告诉我，你在没有调查利德盖特先生的前景的情况下就让这一切继续下去吗？”布尔斯特罗德夫人说，睁大了眼睛，更加严肃地看着她的哥哥，她的哥哥正处于他暴躁的仓库幽默中。 “想想这个在奢侈环境中长大的女孩——我很遗憾地说，以一种过于世俗的方式长大——她靠着微薄的收入会做什么？”

‘Oh, confound it, Harriet I what can I do when men come into the town without any asking of mine? Did you shut your house up against Lydgate? Bulstrode has pushed him forward more than anybody. I never made any fuss about the young fellow. You should go and talk to your husband about it, not me.’
“哦，真奇怪，哈丽特，如果有人未经我的同意就闯进城里，我该怎么办？你有没有对利德盖特关闭你的房子？布尔斯特罗德比任何人都更能推动他前进。我从来没有对这个年轻人大惊小怪。你应该去和你丈夫谈谈这件事，而不是我。”

‘Well, really, Walter, how can Mr. Bulstrode be to blame? I am sure he did not wish for the engagement.’
“嗯，真的，沃尔特，布尔斯特罗德先生怎么能受到责备呢？我确信他不希望订婚。

‘Oh, if Bulstrode had not taken him by the hand, I should never have invited him.’
“哦，如果布尔斯特罗德没有握住他的手，我就不会邀请他。”

‘But you called him in to attend on Fred, and I am sure that was a mercy,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, losing her clew in the intricacies of the subject.
“但是你叫他来照顾弗雷德，我确信这是一种仁慈，”布尔斯特罗德夫人说道，她对这个错综复杂的话题失去了理智。

‘I don’t know about mercy,’ said Mr. Vincy, testily. ‘I know I am worried more than I like with my family. I was a good brother to you, Harriet, before you married Bulstrode, and I must say he doesn’t always show that friendly spirit towards your family that might have been expected of him.’ Mr. Vincy was very little like a Jesuit, but no accomplished Jesuit could have turned a question more adroitly. Harriet had to defend her husband instead of blaming her brother, and the conversation ended at a point as far from the beginning as some recent sparring between the brothers-in-law at a vestry meeting.
“我不懂怜悯，”文西先生暴躁地说。 “我知道我对家人的担心超过了我对家人的期望。哈里特，在你嫁给布尔斯特罗德之前，我是你的好兄弟，我必须说，他并不总是对你的家人表现出人们对他所期望的友好精神。”文西先生一点也不像耶稣会士，但没有一位有成就的耶稣会士能够更巧妙地解决这个问题。哈丽特必须捍卫她的丈夫，而不是责怪她的兄弟，谈话结束时，距离开始的时间还很远，就像最近姐夫在教区会议上发生的一些争吵一样。

Mrs. Bulstrode did not repeat her brother’s complaints to her husband, but in the evening she spoke to him of Lydgate and Rosamond. He did not share her warm interest, however; and only spoke with resignation of the risks attendant on the beginning of medical practice and the desirability of prudence.
布尔斯特罗德夫人没有向丈夫重复她哥哥的抱怨，但晚上她向他谈到了利德盖特和罗莎蒙德。然而，他并不像她那样感兴趣。并且只是无奈地谈到了医疗实践开始时所伴随的风险和谨慎的必要性。

‘I am sure we are bound to pray for that thoughtless girl— brought up as she has been,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, wishing to rouse her husband’s feelings.
“我相信我们一定要为那个没有思想的女孩祈祷——她从小就这样长大，”布尔斯特罗德夫人说，希望唤起她丈夫的感情。

‘Truly, my dear,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, assentingly. ‘Those who are not of this world can do little else to arrest the errors of the obstinately worldly. That is what we must accustom ourselves to recognize with regard to your brother’s family. I could have wished that Mr. Lydgate had not entered into such a union; but my relations with him are limited to that use of his gifts for God’s purposes which is taught us by the divine government under each dispensation.’
“确实如此，亲爱的，”布尔斯特罗德先生赞同地说。 ‘那些不属于这个世界的人无法采取任何其他措施来制止顽固的世俗之人的错误。对于你兄弟的家人，我们必须习惯于认识到这一点。我真希望利德盖特先生没有加入这样的联盟。但我与他的关系仅限于将他的恩赐用于上帝的目的，这是神圣政府在每个时代教导我们的。

Mrs. Bulstrode said no more, attributing some dissatisfaction which she felt to her own want of spirituality. She believed that her husband was one of those men whose memoirs should be written when they died.
布尔斯特罗德夫人没有再说什么，她把自己的不满归咎于自己缺乏灵性。她相信她的丈夫是那些死后应该写回忆录的人之一。

As to Lydgate himself, having been accepted, he was prepared to accept all the consequences which he believed himself to foresee with perfect clearness. Of course he must be married in a year— perhaps even in half a year. This was not what he had intended; but other schemes would not be hindered: they would simply adjust themselves anew. Marriage, of course, must be prepared for in the usual way. A house must be taken instead of the rooms he at present occupied; and Lydgate, having heard Rosamond speak with admiration of old Mrs. Bretton’s house (situated in Lowick Gate), took notice when it fell vacant after the old lady’s death, and immediately entered into treaty for it.
至于利德盖特本人，既然被接受了，他就准备好接受他相信自己能够清楚地预见到的所有后果。当然，他必须在一年内——甚至半年内——结婚。这不是他的本意。但其他计划不会受到阻碍：它们只会重新调整自己。当然，婚姻必须以通常的方式准备。必须征用一所房子，而不是他现在所住的房间；利德盖特听到罗莎蒙德对布雷顿老太太的房子（位于洛威克门）充满钦佩之情后，注意到老太太死后房子空置了，并立即为此签订了条约。

He did this in an episodic way, very much as he gave orders to his tailor for every requisite of perfect dress, without any notion of being extravagant. On the contrary, he would have despised any ostentation of expense; his profession had familiarized him with all grades of poverty, and he cared much for those who suffered hardships. He would have behaved perfectly at a table where the sauce was served in a jug with the handle off, and he would have remembered nothing about a grand dinner except that a man was there who talked well. But it had never occurred to him that he should live in any other than what he would have called an ordinary way, with green glasses for hock, and excellent waiting at table. In warming himself at French social theories he had brought away no smell of scorching. We may handle even extreme opinions with impunity while our furniture, our dinner-giving, and preference for armorial bearings in our own ease, link us indissolubly with the established order. And Lydgate’s tendency was not towards extreme opinions: he would have liked no barefooted doctrines, being particular about his boots: he was no radical in relation to anything but medical reform and the prosecution of discovery. In the rest of practical life he walked by hereditary habit; half from that personal pride and unreflecting egoism which I have already called commonness, and half from that naivete which belonged to preoccupation with favorite ideas.
他以一种间歇性的方式做到这一点，就像他向裁缝下达完美服装的每一个必需品一样，没有任何奢侈的想法。相反，他会鄙视任何炫耀的花费。他的职业使他熟悉了各种贫困程度，他非常关心那些遭受苦难的人。在餐桌上，他会表现得很完美，酱汁装在一个没有把手的壶里，他对一顿盛大的晚餐一无所知，除了那里有一个能说会道的人。但他从来没有想过，他应该过一种不同于他所谓的普通方式的生活，戴着绿色眼镜，在餐桌上做出色的服务员。在法国社会理论的熏陶下，他并没有带走任何焦灼的味道。我们甚至可以不受惩罚地处理极端的意见，而我们的家具、我们的晚餐以及我们对徽章轴承的偏好，将我们与既定秩序牢不可破地联系在一起。利德盖特的倾向并不是极端的观点：他不喜欢赤脚的学说，对他的靴子很挑剔：除了医疗改革和发现的起诉之外，他对任何事情都不激进。在余下的实际生活中，他一直遵循着遗传的习惯。一半来自于我已经称之为“普遍性”的个人骄傲和不加反思的利己主义，一半来自于对自己喜欢的想法的全神贯注的天真。

Any inward debate Lydgate had as to the consequences of this engagement which had stolen upon him, turned on the paucity of time rather than of money. Certainly, being in love and being expected continually by some one who always turned out to be prettier than memory could represent her to be, did interfere with the diligent use of spare hours which might serve some ‘plodding fellow of a German’ to make the great, imminent discovery. This was really an argument for not deferring the marriage too long, as he implied to Mr. Farebrother, one day that the Vicar came to his room with some pond-products which he wanted to examine under a better microscope than his own, and, finding Lydgate’s tableful of apparatus and specimens in confusion, said sarcastically—
利德盖特对于这次偷偷发生的订婚的后果的任何内心争论都集中在时间的缺乏而不是金钱的缺乏上。当然，恋爱中并不断被某个总是比记忆中所代表的更漂亮的人所期待，确实干扰了对业余时间的勤奋利用，而这可能有助于某些“德国人的辛勤工作”，以取得成功。伟大的、迫在眉睫的发现。这实际上是一个不要将婚姻推迟太久的理由，正如他向费雷布拉泽先生暗示的那样，有一天，牧师带着一些池塘产品来到他的房间，他想在比他自己的显微镜更好的显微镜下检查这些产品，并且，发现利德盖特桌上的仪器和标本混乱不堪，讽刺地说——

‘Eros has degenerated; he began by introducing order and harmony, and now he brings back chaos.’
‘爱欲已经退化；他一开始引入了秩序与和谐，现在又带回了混乱。”

‘Yes, at some stages,’ said Lydgate, lifting his brows and smiling, while he began to arrange his microscope. ‘But a better order will begin after.’
“是的，在某些阶段，”利德盖特扬起眉毛微笑着说道，同时开始布置他的显微镜。 “但更好的秩序将会在之后开始。”

‘Soon?’ said the Vicar.
“很快？”牧师说。

‘I hope so, really. This unsettled state of affairs uses up the time, and when one has notions in science, every moment is an opportunity. I feel sure that marriage must be the best thing for a man who wants to work steadily. He has everything at home then—no teasing with personal speculations—he can get calmness and freedom.’
“我希望如此，真的。这种不稳定的状态消耗了时间，当一个人有科学观念时，每时每刻都是一个机会。我相信，对于一个想要稳定工作的男人来说，婚姻一定是最好的事情。那时他就拥有了家里的一切——没有个人猜测的戏弄——他可以获得平静和自由。”

‘You are an enviable dog,’ said the Vicar, ‘to have such a prospect— Rosamond, calmness and freedom, all to your share. Here am I with nothing but my pipe and pond-animalcules. Now, are you ready?’
“你是一只令人羡慕的狗，”牧师说，“拥有这样的前景——罗莎蒙德，平静和自由，这一切都是你的。我现在什么都没有，除了我的烟斗和池塘里的小动物。现在，你准备好了吗？

Lydgate did not mention to the Vicar another reason he had for wishing to shorten the period of courtship. It was rather irritating to him, even with the wine of love in his veins, to be obliged to mingle so often with the family party at the Vincys’, and to enter so much into Middlemarch gossip, protracted good cheer, whist-playing, and general futility. He had to be deferential when Mr. Vincy decided questions with trenchant ignorance, especially as to those liquors which were the best inward pickle, preserving you from the effects of bad air. Mrs. Vincy’s openness and simplicity were quite unstreaked with suspicion as to the subtle offence she might give to the taste of her intended son-in-law; and altogether Lydgate had to confess to himself that he was descending a little in relation to Rosamond’s family. But that exquisite creature herself suffered in the same sort of way:— it was at least one delightful thought that in marrying her, he could give her a much-needed transplantation.
利德盖特没有向牧师提及他希望缩短求爱期的另一个原因。尽管他的血管里流淌着爱的美酒，但不得不如此频繁地参加文西家的家庭聚会，并如此频繁地参与米德尔马契的八卦，长时间的欢乐，打惠斯特，这对他来说是相当恼人的，和普遍的徒劳。当文西先生极其无知地决定问题时，他必须表现得恭敬，特别是那些酒，它们是最好的内心泡菜，可以保护你免受不良空气的影响。文西夫人的坦率和单纯，丝毫没有让人怀疑她可能会对她未来女婿的品味产生微妙的冒犯。总的来说，利德盖特不得不承认，他与罗莎蒙德一家的关系有些下降。但这个精致的生物本身也遭受着同样的痛苦：——至少有一个令人愉快的想法：在娶了她之后，他可以给她进行急需的移植手术。

‘Dear!’ he said to her one evening, in his gentlest tone, as he sat down by her and looked closely at her face—
“亲爱的！”一天晚上，他坐在她身边，仔细地看着她的脸，用最温柔的语气对她说道——

But I must first say that he had found her alone in the drawing-room, where the great old-fashioned window, almost as large as the side of the room, was opened to the summer scents of the garden at the back of the house. Her father and mother were gone to a party, and the rest were all out with the butterflies.
但我必须首先说，他发现她独自一人在客厅里，那扇老式的大窗户几乎和房间的一侧一样大，敞开着，房子后面花园里夏天的香味扑面而来。 。她的父亲和母亲去参加一个聚会，其余的人都和蝴蝶一起出去了。

‘Dear! your eyelids are red.’
'亲爱的！你的眼皮是红的。”

‘Are they?’ said Rosamond. ‘I wonder why.’ It was not in her nature to pour forth wishes or grievances. They only came forth gracefully on solicitation.
“是吗？”罗莎蒙德说。 “我不知道为什么。”倾诉愿望或委屈不是她的本性。他们只是在恳求下才优雅地出现。

‘As if you could hide it from me!’? said Lydgate, laying his hand tenderly on both of hers. ‘Don’t I see a tiny drop on one of the lashes? Things trouble you, and you don’t tell me. That is unloving.’
“好像你能瞒着我一样！”？利德盖特温柔地把手放在她的双手上说道。 “我没看到其中一根睫毛上有一滴小滴吗？有事情困扰你，你却不告诉我。那是没有爱心的。

‘Why should I tell you what you cannot alter? They are every-day things:—perhaps they have been a little worse lately.’
‘我为什么要告诉你你无法改变的事情？它们是日常生活中的事情：——也许最近情况更糟了。

‘Family annoyances. Don’t fear speaking. I guess them.’
‘家庭烦恼。不要害怕说话。我猜是他们。

‘Papa has been more irritable lately. Fred makes him angry, and this morning there was a fresh quarrel because Fred threatens to throw his whole education away, and do something quite beneath him. And besides—‘
“爸爸最近脾气比较暴躁。弗雷德让他很生气，今天早上又发生了一场新的争吵，因为弗雷德威胁要放弃他所受的全部教育，并做一些对他来说很不光彩的事情。除此之外——”

Rosamond hesitated, and her cheeks were gathering a slight flush. Lydgate had never seen her in trouble since the morning of their engagement, and he had never felt so passionately towards her as at this moment. He kissed the hesitating lips gently, as if to encourage them.
罗莎蒙德犹豫了，她的脸颊微微泛红。自从他们订婚的那天早上起，利德盖特就从来没有见过她遇到麻烦，他也从来没有像这一刻这样对她感到如此热情。他轻轻地吻了一下犹豫的嘴唇，像是在鼓励它们。

‘I feel that papa is not quite pleased about our engagement,’ Rosamond continued, almost in a whisper; ‘and he said last night that he should certainly speak to you and say it must be given up.’
“我觉得爸爸对我们订婚不太高兴，”罗莎蒙德继续说道，声音几乎是低声的。 “他昨晚说他一定要跟你谈谈，说必须放弃。”

‘Will you give it up?’ said Lydgate, with quick energy—almost angrily.
“你愿意放弃吗？”利德盖特语气急促，几乎是愤怒地说道。

‘I never give up anything that I choose to do,’ said Rosamond, recovering her calmness at the touching of this chord.
“我永远不会放弃我选择做的任何事情，”罗莎蒙德说道，在这和弦的触动下恢复了平静。

‘God bless you!’ said Lydgate, kissing her again. This constancy of purpose in the right place was adorable. He went on:—
“上帝保佑你！”利德盖特说道，再次亲吻了她。这种在正确的地方坚定不移的目标是可爱的。他接着说：-

‘It is too late now for your father to say that our engagement must be given up. You are of age, and I claim you as mine. If anything is done to make you unhappy,—that is a reason for hastening our marriage.’
“现在你父亲说必须放弃我们的婚约已经太晚了。你已经成年了，我承认你是我的。如果做了什么让你不高兴的事，那就是我们加速结婚的理由。”

An unmistakable delight shone forth from the blue eyes that met his, and the radiance seemed to light up all his future with mild sunshine. Ideal happiness (of the kind known in the Arabian Nights, in which you are invited to step from the labor and discord of the street into a paradise where everything is given to you and nothing claimed) seemed to be an affair of a few weeks’ waiting, more or less.
与他对视的蓝眼睛里闪烁着明显的喜悦，那光芒似乎用温和的阳光照亮了他的整个未来。理想的幸福（《一千零一夜》中的那种幸福，邀请你从街头的劳作和不和谐中走出来，进入天堂，那里一切都给了你，没有任何索取）似乎是几周内的事情。等待，或多或少。

‘Why should we defer it?’ he said, with ardent insistence. ‘I have taken the house now: everything else can soon be got ready— can it not? You will not mind about new clothes. Those can be bought afterwards.’
“我们为什么要推迟呢？”他热切地坚持说。 “我现在已经买下了房子：其他一切很快就能准备好——不是吗？”你不会介意新衣服。这些可以事后购买。

‘What original notions you clever men have!’ said Rosamond, dimpling with more thorough laughter than usual at this humorous incongruity. ‘This is the first time I ever heard of wedding-clothes being bought after marriage.’
“你们这些聪明人的想法多么新颖啊！”罗莎蒙德说，由于这种幽默的不协调，她笑得比平常更彻底。 “我还是第一次听说结婚后要买婚纱。”

‘But you don’t mean to say you would insist on my waiting months for the sake of clothes?’ said Lydgate, half thinking that Rosamond was tormenting him prettily, and half fearing that she really shrank from speedy marriage. ‘Remember, we are looking forward to a better sort of happiness even than this—being continually together, independent of others, and ordering our lives as we will. Come, dear, tell me how soon you can be altogether mine.’
“但你的意思不是说，为了衣服，你会坚持让我等上几个月吗？”利德盖特说道，他一半认为罗莎蒙德在巧妙地折磨他，一半担心她真的不愿尽快结婚。 “记住，我们期待着比这更好的幸福——持续在一起，独立于他人，按照我们的意愿安排我们的生活。来吧，亲爱的，告诉我多久你才能完全属于我。

There was a serious pleading in Lydgate’s tone, as if he felt that she would be injuring him by any fantastic delays. Rosamond became serious too, and slightly meditative; in fact, she was going through many intricacies of lace-edging and hosiery and petticoat-tucking, in order to give an answer that would at least be approximative.
利德盖特的语气里带着严肃的恳求，仿佛他觉得她的任何奇妙的拖延都会伤害他。罗莎蒙德也变得严肃起来，略带沉思。事实上，她正在经历许多复杂的蕾丝边、袜子和衬裙的褶皱，以便给出至少是近似的答案。

‘Six weeks would be ample—say so, Rosamond,’ insisted Lydgate, releasing her hands to put his arm gently round her.
“六个星期就足够了——说吧，罗莎蒙德，”利德盖特坚持说，松开了她的手，用手臂轻轻地搂着她。

One little hand immediately went to pat her hair, while she gave her neck a meditative turn, and then said seriously—
一只小手立即伸手拍了拍她的头发，她则扭动脖子，认真说道——

‘There would be the house-linen and the furniture to be prepared. Still, mamma could see to those while we were away.’
“还有需要准备的家用亚麻布和家具。不过，当我们不在的时候，妈妈可以照看这些。”

‘Yes, to be sure. We must be away a week or so.’
是的，当然。我们必须离开一周左右。

‘Oh, more than that!’ said Rosamond, earnestly. She was thinking of her evening dresses for the visit to Sir Godwin Lydgate’s, which she had long been secretly hoping for as a delightful employment of at least one quarter of the honeymoon, even if she deferred her introduction to the uncle who was a doctor of divinity (also a pleasing though sober kind of rank, when sustained by blood). She looked at her lover with some wondering remonstrance as she spoke, and he readily understood that she might wish to lengthen the sweet time of double solitude.
“哦，不仅如此！”罗莎蒙德认真地说。她正在考虑为拜访戈德温·利德盖特爵士而穿的晚礼服，她长期以来一直暗自希望能在蜜月中度过至少四分之一的愉快时光，即使她推迟了向戈德温·利德盖特爵士的医生叔叔的介绍。神性（当由血统维持时，也是一种令人愉快但清醒的等级）。说话时，她带着某种好奇的抗议看着她的爱人，他很容易理解她可能希望延长双重孤独的甜蜜时光。

‘Whatever you wish, my darling, when the day is fixed. But let us take a decided course, and put an end to any discomfort you may be suffering. Six weeks!—I am sure they would be ample.’
“无论你想要什么，亲爱的，当日子确定的时候。但让我们采取坚定的行动，结束你可能遭受的任何不适。六个星期！——我相信足够了。”

‘I could certainly hasten the work,’ said Rosamond. ‘Will you, then, mention it to papa?—I think it would be better to write to him.’ She blushed and looked at him as the garden flowers look at us when we walk forth happily among them in the transcendent evening light: is there not a soul beyond utterance, half nymph, half child, in those delicate petals which glow and breathe about the centres of deep color?
“我当然可以加快工作速度，”罗莎蒙德说。 “那么，你能向爸爸提起这件事吗？——我想最好写信给他。”她脸红了，看着他，就像当我们在超然的夜光下快乐地在花园里的花朵中行走时，花园里的花朵看着我们一样：在那些在深色中心周围发光和呼吸的精致花瓣中，难道没有一个无法言喻的灵魂，一半是仙女，一半是孩子吗？

He touched her ear and a little bit of neck under it with his lips, and they sat quite still for many minutes which flowed by them like a small gurgling brook with the kisses of the sun upon it. Rosamond thought that no one could be more in love than she was; and Lydgate thought that after all his wild mistakes and absurd credulity, he had found perfect womanhood—felt as If already breathed upon by exquisite wedded affection such as would be bestowed by an accomplished creature who venerated his high musings and momentous labors and would never interfere with them; who would create order in the home and accounts with still magic, yet keep her fingers ready to touch the lute and transform life into romance at any moment; who was instructed to the true womanly limit and not a hair’s- breadth beyond—docile, therefore, and ready to carry out behests which came from that limit. It was plainer now than ever that his notion of remaining much longer a bachelor had been a mistake: marriage would not be an obstruction but a furtherance. And happening the next day to accompany a patient to Brassing, he saw a dinner-service there which struck him as so exactly the right thing that he bought it at once. It saved time to do these things just when you thought of them, and Lydgate hated ugly crockery. The dinner-service in question was expensive, but that might be in the nature of dinner-services. Furnishing was necessarily expensive; but then it had to be done only once.
他用嘴唇碰触她的耳朵和耳朵下面的一小部分脖子，他们一动不动地坐了好几分钟，它们像一条潺潺的小溪流过，上面有阳光的亲吻。罗莎蒙德认为没有人比她更爱她了。利德盖特认为，在经历了所有疯狂的错误和荒谬的轻信之后，他已经找到了完美的女性气质——感觉好像已经被精致的婚姻感情所呼吸，就像一个有成就的人所赐予的，他崇敬他的崇高沉思和重大劳动，永远不会干涉跟他们;她会用魔法创造秩序和账目，同时随时准备好弹奏琵琶，将生活变成浪漫；她被教导要达到真正的女性极限，不能超出一丝一毫——因此，她很温顺，并准备好执行来自该极限的命令。现在比以往任何时候都更加清楚的是，他继续保持单身状态的想法是错误的：婚姻不会成为障碍，而是促进。第二天，他陪一位病人去布拉辛，在那里看到了一套餐具，这让他觉得非常合适，所以他立即买了它。当你想到这些事情时就做这些事情可以节省时间，而且利德盖特讨厌丑陋的陶器。所讨论的晚餐服务很昂贵，但这可能是晚餐服务的本质。家具必然很昂贵；但这样就只能进行一次。

‘It must be lovely,’ said Mrs. Vincy, when Lydgate mentioned his purchase with some descriptive touches. ‘Just what Rosy ought to have. I trust in heaven it won’t be broken!’
当利德盖特用一些描述性的方式提到他买的东西时，文西夫人说：“它一定很可爱。” ‘这正是罗西应该拥有的。我相信天堂不会被打破！”

‘One must hire servants who will not break things,’ said Lydgate. (Certainly, this was reasoning with an imperfect vision of sequences. But at that period there was no sort of reasoning which was not more or less sanctioned by men of science.)
“必须雇用不会破坏东西的仆人，”利德盖特说。 （当然，这是用不完美的序列视觉进行的推理。但在那个时期，没有一种推理不或多或少地受到科学家的认可。）

Of course it was unnecessary to defer the mention of anything to mamma, who did not readily take views that were not cheerful, and being a happy wife herself, had hardly any feeling but pride in her daughter’s marriage. But Rosamond had good reasons for suggesting to Lydgate that papa should be appealed to in writing. She prepared for the arrival of the letter by walking with her papa to the warehouse the next morning, and telling him on the way that Mr. Lydgate wished to be married soon.
当然，没有必要向妈妈提任何事情，她不会轻易接受不愉快的观点，而且她自己也是一个幸福的妻子，对女儿的婚姻除了自豪之外几乎没有任何感觉。但罗莎蒙德有充分的理由向利德盖特建议应该以书面形式向爸爸提出上诉。第二天早上，她和爸爸一起走到仓库，为这封信的到来做好了准备，并在路上告诉他利德盖特先生希望尽快结婚。

‘Nonsense, my dear!’ said Mr. Vincy. ‘What has he got to marry on? You’d much better give up the engagement. I’ve told you so pretty plainly before this. What have you had such an education for, if you are to go and marry a poor man? It’s a cruel thing for a father to see.’
“胡说，亲爱的！”文西先生说。 ‘他凭什么结婚？你最好放弃订婚。我之前已经很清楚地告诉过你了。如果你要嫁给一个穷人，你受过这样的教育是为了什么？对于一个父亲来说，看到这样的事情是一件残酷的事情。”

‘Mr. Lydgate is not poor, papa. He bought Mr. Peacock’s practice, which, they say, is worth eight or nine hundred a-year.’
'先生。利德盖特并不穷，爸爸。他买下了皮科克先生的诊所，据说每年值八九百美元。

‘Stuff and nonsense! What’s buying a practice? He might as well buy next year’s swallows. It’ll all slip through his fingers.’
'东西，废话！什么叫买练习？他不妨买明年的燕子。这一切都会从他的指缝中溜走。

‘On the contrary, papa, he will increase the practice. See how he has been called in by the Chettams and Casaubons.’
‘相反，爸爸，他会增加练习。看看他是如何被切塔姆家族和卡苏邦家族召来的。

‘I hope he knows I shan’t give anything—with this disappointment about Fred, and Parliament going to be dissolved, and machine-breaking everywhere, and an election coming on—‘
“我希望他知道我不会给予任何东西——对弗雷德的失望，议会将被解散，到处都有机器损坏，选举即将到来——”

‘Dear papa! what can that have to do with my marriage?’
‘亲爱的爸爸！这和我的婚姻有什么关系？

‘A pretty deal to do with it! We may all be ruined for what I know— the country’s in that state! Some say it’s the end of the world, and be hanged if I don’t think it looks like it! Anyhow, it’s not a time for me to be drawing money out of my business, and I should wish Lydgate to know that.’
‘这件事可真够干的！据我所知，我们可能都会被毁掉——这个国家就处于这种状态！有人说这是世界末日，如果我不这么认为，我就会被绞死！不管怎样，现在不是我从我的生意中赚钱的时候，我希望利德盖特知道这一点。

‘I am sure he expects nothing, papa. And he has such very high connections: he is sure to rise in one way or another. He is engaged in making scientific discoveries.’
“我确信他什么也没期待，爸爸。而且他拥有非常高的人脉关系：他肯定会以某种方式晋升。他致力于科学发现。

Mr. Vincy was silent.
文西先生沉默了。

‘I cannot give up my only prospect of happiness, papa Mr. Lydgate is a gentleman. I could never love any one who was not a perfect gentleman. You would not like me to go into a consumption, as Arabella Hawley did. And you know that I never change my mind.’
“我不能放弃我唯一的幸福希望，爸爸利德盖特先生是一位绅士。我永远不会爱任何一个不是完美绅士的人。你不会希望我像阿拉贝拉·霍利那样陷入肺病。你知道我永远不会改变主意。

Again papa was silent.
爸爸又沉默了。

‘Promise me, papa, that you will consent to what we wish. We shall never give each other up; and you know that you have always objected to long courtships and late marriages.’
“爸爸，请答应我，你会同意我们的愿望。我们永远不会放弃彼此；而且你知道你一直反对长时间的求爱和晚婚。

There was a little more urgency of this kind, till Mr. Vincy said, ‘Well, well, child, he must write to me first before I car answer him,’— and Rosamond was certain that she had gained her point.
这种情况有点紧迫，直到文西先生说：“好吧，好吧，孩子，在我回复他之前，他必须先写信给我，”——罗莎蒙德确信她已经明白了自己的意思。

Mr. Vincy’s answer consisted chiefly in a demand that Lydgate should insure his life—a demand immediately conceded. This was a delightfully reassuring idea supposing that Lydgate died, but in the mean time not a self-supporting idea. However, it seemed to make everything comfortable about Rosamond’s marriage; and the necessary purchases went on with much spirit. Not without prudential considerations, however. A bride (who is going to visit at a baronet’s) must have a few first-rate pocket-handkerchiefs; but beyond the absolutely necessary half-dozen, Rosamond contented herself without the very highest style of embroidery and Valenciennes. Lydgate also, finding that his sum of eight hundred pounds had been considerably reduced since he had come to Middlemarch, restrained his inclination for some plate of an old pattern which was shown to him when he went into Kibble’s establishment at Brassing to buy forks and spoons. He was too proud to act as if he presupposed that Mr. Vincy would advance money to provide furniture-; and though, since it would not be necessary to pay for everything at once, some bills would be left standing over, he did not waste time in conjecturing how much his father-in-law would give in the form of dowry, to make payment easy. He was not going to do anything extravagant, but the requisite things must be bought, and it would be bad economy to buy them of a poor quality. All these matters were by the bye. Lydgate foresaw that science and his profession were the objects he should alone pursue enthusiastically; but he could not imagine himself pursuing them in such a home as Wrench had—the doors all open, the oil-cloth worn, the children in soiled pinafores, and lunch lingering in the form of bones, black-handled knives, and willow-pattern. But Wrench had a wretched lymphatic wife who made a mummy of herself indoors in a large shawl; and he must have altogether begun with an ill-chosen domestic apparatus.
文西先生的回答主要是要求利德盖特为他的生命投保——这一要求立即得到了承认。假设利德盖特死了，这是一个令人愉快、令人安心的想法，但同时并不是一个自给自足的想法。然而，罗莎蒙德的婚姻似乎让一切都变得舒适起来。必要的采购继续进行。然而，并非没有审慎的考虑。新娘（要去拜访准男爵）必须有几条一流的手帕；但除了绝对必要的六种之外，罗莎蒙德对没有最高风格的刺绣和瓦朗谢讷感到满意。利德盖特还发现，自从他来到米德尔马奇以来，他的八百英镑已经大大减少，因此他克制了自己对一些老式盘子的兴趣，当他去布拉辛的基布尔商店购买叉子和勺子时，有人向他展示了这些盘子。 。他太骄傲了，不会表现得好像他预先假设文西先生会预付钱来提供家具一样——；虽然，由于没有必要一次性支付所有费用，所以会留下一些账单，但他并没有浪费时间去猜测他的岳父会以嫁妆的形式支付多少，以支付费用。简单的。他不会做任何奢侈的事情，但必需的东西必须买，买质量差的东西就不经济了。所有这些事情都由再见了。利德盖特预见到科学和他的职业是他应该独自热情追求的目标。但他无法想象自己会在扳手那样的家里追​​捕他们——门全开，油布破旧，孩子们穿着肮脏的围裙，午餐以骨头、黑柄刀子和柳树的形式徘徊——图案。 但扳手有一个可怜的淋巴妻子，她在室内用一条大披肩把自己变成了木乃伊；他肯定是从一个选择不当的家庭机构开始的。

Rosamond, however, was on her side much occupied with conjectures, though her quick imitative perception warned her against betraying them too crudely.
然而，罗莎蒙德站在她这一边，充满了猜测，尽管她的快速模仿感知警告她不要太粗鲁地背叛他们。

‘I shall like so much to know your family,’ she said one day, when the wedding journey was being discussed. ‘We might perhaps take a direction that would allow us to see them as we returned. Which of your uncles do you like best?’
“我非常想认识你的家人，”有一天，当她正在讨论婚礼之旅时，她说道。 “我们也许会选择一个可以让我们在返回时看到他们的方向。你最喜欢你的叔叔中的哪一个？

‘Oh,—my uncle Godwin, I think. He is a good-natured old fellow.’
“哦，我想是我的戈德温叔叔。他是一个心地善良的老家伙。

‘You were constantly at his house at Quallingham, when you were a boy, were you not? I should so like to see the old spot and everything you were used to. Does he know you are going to be married?’
“当你还是个孩子的时候，你经常去他位于奎林厄姆的家里，不是吗？我很想看看那个老地方和你习惯的一切。他知道你要结婚吗？

‘No,’ said Lydgate, carelessly, turning in his chair and rubbing his hair up.
“不，”利德盖特漫不经心地说，在椅子上转过身，揉着头发。

‘Do send him word of it, you naughty undutiful nephew. He will perhaps ask you to take me to Quallingham; and then you could show me about the grounds, and I could imagine you there when you were a boy. Remember, you see me in my home, just as it has been since I was a child. It is not fair that I should be so ignorant of yours. But perhaps you would be a little ashamed of me. I forgot that.’
‘你这顽皮不孝的侄子，一定要把这件事告诉他。他也许会请你带我去奎林厄姆；然后你可以带我参观场地，我可以想象你小时候在那里。请记住，你在我家里看到我，就像我小时候一样。我对你的事如此无知，这是不公平的。但也许你会为我感到有点羞耻。我忘记了。

Lydgate smiled at her tenderly, and really accepted the suggestion that the proud pleasure of showing so charming a bride was worth some trouble. And now he came to think of it, he would like to see the old spots with Rosamond.
利德盖特温柔地对她微笑，并真正接受了这样的建议：展示如此迷人的新娘所带来的自豪感值得一些麻烦。现在他想起来了，他想和罗莎蒙德一起去看看那些老地方。

‘I will write to him, then. But my cousins are bores.’
“那我就写信给他。但我的堂兄弟们都很无聊。

It seemed magnificent to Rosamond to be able to speak so slightingly of a baronet’s family, and she felt much contentment in the prospect of being able to estimate them contemptuously on her own account.
对罗莎蒙德来说，能够如此轻蔑地谈论一个从男爵的家庭似乎是一件了不起的事，而且她对能够以自己的名义轻蔑地评价他们感到非常满足。

But mamma was near spoiling all, a day or two later, by saying—
但一两天后，妈妈几乎毁了一切，她说——

‘I hope your uncle Sir Godwin will not look down on Rosy, Mr. Lydgate. I should think he would do something handsome. A thousand or two can be nothing to a baronet.’
“我希望你的叔叔戈德温爵士不会看不起罗西，利德盖特先生。我应该认为他会做一些帅气的事情。对于从男爵来说，一千两个根本不算什么。

‘Mamma!’ said Rosamond, blushing deeply; and Lydgate pitied her so much that he remained silent and went to the other end of the room to examine a print curiously, as if he had been absent-minded. Mamma had a little filial lecture afterwards, and was docile as usual. But Rosamond reflected that if any of those high-bred cousins who were bores, should be induced to visit Middlemarch, they would see many things in her own family which might shock them. Hence it seemed desirable that Lydgate should by-and-by get some first-rate position elsewhere than in Middlemarch; and this could hardly be difficult in the case of a man who had a titled uncle and could make discoveries. Lydgate, you perceive, had talked fervidly to Rosamond of his hopes as to the highest uses of his life, and had found it delightful to be listened to by a creature who would bring him the sweet furtherance of satisfying affection—beauty—repose—such help as our thoughts get from the summer sky and the flower-fringed meadows.
“妈妈！”罗莎蒙德说，脸涨得通红。利德盖特非常同情她，所以他保持沉默，走到房间的另一端好奇地检查印刷品，就好像他心不在焉一样。妈妈听了一番孝顺的教训后，又像往常一样温顺了。但罗莎蒙德想，如果那些令人厌烦的高教养表亲中的任何一个被引诱去拜访米德尔马契，他们会在她自己的家族中看到许多可能令他们震惊的事情。因此，利德盖特似乎应该在米德尔马契以外的其他地方获得一些一流的职位。对于一个有头衔的叔叔并且能够做出发现的人来说，这并不困难。你知道，利德盖特曾热情地向罗莎蒙德讲述他对人生最高目标的希望，并且发现被一个能给他带来满足的情感、美丽、安宁等甜美的帮助的人倾听是一件令人愉快的事。当我们的思绪来自夏日的天空和鲜花盛开的草地时，我们会得到帮助。

Lydgate relied much on the psychological difference between what for the sake of variety I will call goose and gander: especially on the innate submissiveness of the goose as beautifully corresponding to the strength of the gander.
利德盖特在很大程度上依赖于我称之为鹅和公鹅之间的心理差异：特别是鹅与生俱来的顺从，与公鹅的力量完美对应。

CHAPTER XXXVII
第三十七章

‘Thrice happy she that is so well assured
“她非常高兴，因为她如此放心

Unto herself and settled so in heart
对她自己，心里如此安定

That neither will for better be allured
两者都不会更好地被诱惑

Ne fears to worse with any chance to start,
只要有机会开始，我就担心会变得更糟，

But like a steddy ship doth strongly part
但就像一艘坚固的船一样强烈分开

The raging waves and keeps her course aright;
汹涌的海浪，让她保持正确的航向；

Ne aught for tempest doth from it depart,
暴风雨也不会离开它，

Ne aught for fairer weather’s false delight.
没有什么比晴朗的天气虚假的快乐更重要的了。

Such self-assurance need not fear the spight
有这样的自信就不用害怕别人的目光

Of grudging foes; ne favour seek of friends;
不怀好意的敌人；朋友的恩惠；

But in the stay of her own stedfast might
但在她自己坚定的力量下

Neither to one herself nor other bends.
既不向自己也不向其他人弯曲。

Most happy she that most assured doth rest,
最幸福的是她最放心地休息，

But he most happy who such one loves best.’
但这样的人最爱的人，他才是最幸福的。”

—SPENSER.
——斯宾塞。

The doubt hinted by Mr. Vincy whether it were only the general election or the end of the world that was coming on, now that George the Fourth was dead, Parliament dissolved, Wellington and Peel generally depreciated and the new King apologetic, was a feeble type of the uncertainties in provincial opinion at that time. With the glow-worm lights of country places, how could men see which were their own thoughts in the confusion of a Tory Ministry passing Liberal measures, of Tory nobles and electors being anxious to return Liberals rather than friends of the recreant Ministers, and of outcries for remedies which seemed to have a mysteriously remote bearing on private interest, and were made suspicious by the advocacy of disagreeable neighbors? Buyers of the Middlemarch newspapers found themselves in an anomalous position: during the agitation on the Catholic Question many had given up the ‘Pioneer’—which had a motto from Charles James Fox and was in the van of progress— because it had taken Peel’s side about the Papists, and had thus blotted its Liberalism with a toleration of Jesuitry and Baal; but they were illsatisfied with the ‘Trumpet,’ which—since its blasts against Rome, and in the general flaccidity of the public mind (nobody knowing who would support whom)—had become feeble in its blowing.
既然乔治四世死了，议会解散，惠灵顿和皮尔普遍贬值，新国王道歉，文西先生所暗示的怀疑是只是大选还是世界末日即将到来，这是一个无力的说法。当时省内意见的不确定性。在乡村地方的萤火虫灯光下，在保守党内阁通过自由党措施的混乱中，在保守党贵族和选民急于回归自由党而不是胆怯的部长们的朋友的情况下，人们怎么能看出哪些是他们自己的想法呢？对似乎与私人利益有着神秘而遥远的关系的补救措施的强烈呼声，并且因令人不快的邻居的倡导而受到怀疑？ 《米德尔马契》报纸的购买者发现自己处于一种反常的境地：在天主教问题引发的骚动中，许多人放弃了《先锋报》——它有查尔斯·詹姆斯·福克斯的座右铭，是进步的先锋——因为它站在了皮尔一边。关于天主教徒，并因此用对耶稣会和巴力的宽容来抹去其自由主义；但他们对“号角”并不满意，自从它向罗马发起猛烈攻击以来，由于公众思想普遍软弱（没有人知道谁会支持谁），它的吹奏已经变得无力。

It was a time, according to a noticeable article in the ‘Pioneer,’ when the crying needs of the country might well counteract a reluctance to public action on the part of men whose minds had from long experience acquired breadth as well as concentration, decision of judgment as well as tolerance, dispassionateness as well as energy— in fact, all those qualities which in the melancholy experience of mankind have been the least disposed to share lodgings.
《先锋报》上一篇引人注目的文章指出，在这个时代，国家迫切的需要很可能会抵消一些人不愿采取公共行动的态度，这些人的思想从长期的经验中获得了广度和集中度、决策力。判断力和宽容，冷静和精力——事实上，所有这些品质在人类的忧郁经历中都是最不愿意共享住宿的。

Mr. Hackbutt, whose fluent speech was at that time floating more widely than usual, and leaving much uncertainty as to its ultimate channel, was heard to say in Mr. Hawley’s office that the article in question ‘emanated’ from Brooke of Tipton, and that Brooke had secretly bought the ‘Pioneer’ some months ago.
哈克布特先生的流利演讲当时比平时传播得更广，并且其最终渠道留下了很多不确定性，有人在霍利先生的办公室里说，相关文章“出自”蒂普顿的布鲁克，并且布鲁克几个月前秘密购买了“先锋”号。

‘That means mischief, eh?’ said Mr. Hawley. ‘He’s got the freak of being a popular man now, after dangling about like a stray tortoise. So much the worse for him. I’ve had my eye on him for some time. He shall be prettily pumped upon. He’s a damned bad landlord. What business has an old county man to come currying favor with a low set of dark-blue freemen? As to his paper, I only hope he may do the writing himself. It would be worth our paying for.’
“这意味着恶作剧，是吗？”霍利先生说。 “在像迷途的乌龟一样晃来晃去之后，他现在成了一个受欢迎的人。”对他来说更糟糕。我关注他有一段时间了。他将会被漂亮地吸引。他真是个坏房东。一个老县人有什么资格来巴结一群低矮的深蓝色自由民呢？至于他的论文，我只希望他能自己写。这值得我们付出代价。

‘I understand he has got a very brilliant young fellow to edit it, who can write the highest style of leading article, quite equal to anything in the London papers. And he means to take very high ground on Reform.’
“我知道他有一个非常聪明的年轻人来编辑它，他可以写出最高风格的头条文章，与伦敦报纸上的任何文章相当。他打算在改革方面占据很高的地位。

‘Let Brooke reform his rent-roll. He’s a cursed old screw, and the buildings all over his estate are going to rack. I sup pose this young fellow is some loose fish from London.’
“让布鲁克改革他的租金登记。他是个该死的老螺丝钉，他庄园里的所有建筑物都会倒塌。我想这个年轻人是来自伦敦的一些散养的鱼。

‘His name is Ladislaw. He is said to be of foreign extraction.’
“他的名字叫拉迪斯瓦夫。据说他有外国人血统。

‘I know the sort,’ said Mr. Hawley; ‘some emissary. He’ll begin with flourishing about the Rights of Man and end with murdering a wench. That’s the style.’
“我知道那种人，”霍利先生说。 ‘某个使者。他将以大肆宣传人权开始，以谋杀一名少女结束。这就是风格。

‘You must concede that there are abuses, Hawley,’ said Mr. Hackbutt, foreseeing some political disagreement with his family lawyer. ‘I myself should never favor immoderate views—in fact I take my stand with Huskisson—but I cannot blind myself to the consideration that the non-representation of large towns—‘
“你必须承认存在虐待行为，霍利，”哈克布特先生说道，他预见到他与家庭律师之间会存在一些政治分歧。 “我本人永远不应该赞成不节制的观点——事实上，我支持赫斯基森——但我不能忽视大城市的不代表性——”

‘Large towns be damned!’ said Mr. Hawley, impatient of exposition. ‘I know a little too much about Middlemarch elections. Let ‘em quash every pocket borough to-morrow, and bring in every mushroom town in the kingdom—they’ll only increase the expense of getting into Parliament. I go upon facts.’
“去死吧，大城市！”霍利先生不耐烦地说道。 “我对米德尔马契选举了解得太多了。让他们明天就镇压每一个袖珍行政区，并占领王国里的每一个蘑菇小镇——他们只会增加进入议会的费用。我以事实为依据。

Mr. Hawley’s disgust at the notion of the ‘Pioneer’ being edited by an emissary, and of Brooke becoming actively political— as if a tortoise of desultory pursuits should protrude its small head ambitiously and become rampant—was hardly equal to the annoyance felt by some members of Mr. Brooke’s own family. The result had oozed forth gradually, like the discovery that your neighbor has set up an unpleasant kind of manufacture which will be permanently under your nostrils without legal remedy. The ‘Pioneer’ had been secretly bought even before Will Ladislaw’s arrival, the expected opportunity having offered itself in the readiness of the proprietor to part with a valuable property which did not pay; and in the interval since Mr. Brooke had written his invitation, those germinal ideas of making his mind tell upon the world at large which had been present in him from his younger years, but had hitherto lain in some obstruction, had been sprouting under cover.
霍利先生对《先锋报》由特使编辑以及布鲁克变得积极政治化的厌恶——就好像一只杂乱无章的乌龟应该雄心勃勃地伸出它的小脑袋并变得猖獗——与布鲁克先生自己的一些家庭成员。结果逐渐浮出水面，就像发现你的邻居已经建立了一种令人不快的工厂，它将永远在你的鼻孔下，没有法律补救措施。甚至在威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫到来之前，“先锋号”就已经被秘密购买了，业主准备放弃一笔尚未支付的有价值的财产，这就是预期的机会。在布鲁克先生写下邀请函之后的这段时间里，那些让他的心灵讲述整个世界的萌芽想法，从他年轻的时候就已经存在于他的心中，但迄今为止一直处于某种障碍之中，一直在掩盖下萌芽。 。

The development was much furthered by a delight in his guest which proved greater even than he had anticipated. For it seemed that Will was not only at home in all those artistic and literary subjects which Mr. Brooke had gone into at one time, but that he was strikingly ready at seizing the points of the political situation, and dealing with them in that large spirit which, aided by adequate memory, lends itself to quotation and general effectiveness of treatment.
他的客人的喜悦之情进一步推动了这一发展，事实证明这种喜悦甚至超出了他的预期。因为看起来威尔不仅对布鲁克先生曾经涉足的所有艺术和文学科目都很熟悉，而且他非常善于抓住政治局势的要点，并在大范围内处理它们。这种精神，在足够的记忆的帮助下，有助于引用和治疗的总体效果。

‘He seems to me a kind of Shelley, you know,’ Mr. Brooke took an opportunity of saying, for the gratification of Mr. Casaubon. ‘I don’t mean as to anything objectionable—laxities or atheism, or anything of that kind, you know—Ladislaw’s sentiments in every way I am sure are good—indeed, we were talking a great deal together last night. But he has the same sort of enthusiasm for liberty, freedom, emancipation—a fine thing under guidance— under guidance, you know. I think I shall be able to put him on the right tack; and I am the more pleased because he is a relation of yours, Casaubon.’
“你知道，在我看来，他有点像雪莱，”布鲁克先生趁机说道，为了让卡苏邦先生满意。 “我并不是指任何令人反感的事情——松懈或无神论，或任何类似的事情，你知道——我确信拉迪斯拉夫的观点在各方面都是好的——事实上，我们昨晚在一起谈论了很多事情。但他对自由、自由、解放有着同样的热情——在指导下是一件好事——在指导下，你知道。我想我应该能够让他走上正确的道路；我更高兴的是，因为他是你的亲戚，卡苏朋。

If the right tack implied anything more precise than the rest of Mr. Brooke’s speech, Mr. Casaubon silently hoped that it referred to some occupation at a great distance from Lowick. He had disliked Will while he helped him, but he had begun to dislike him still more now that Will had declined his help. That is the way with us when we have any uneasy jealousy in our disposition: if our talents are chiefly of the burrowing kind, our honey-sipping cousin (whom we have grave reasons for objecting to) is likely to have a secret contempt for us, and any one who admires him passes an oblique criticism on ourselves. Having the scruples of rectitude in our souls, we are above the meanness of injuring him— rather we meet all his claims on us by active benefits; and the drawing of cheeks for him, being a superiority which he must recognize, gives our bitterness a milder infusion. Now Mr. Casaubon had been deprived of that superiority (as anything more than a remembrance) in a sudden, capricious manner. His antipathy to Will did not spring from the common jealousy of a winter-worn husband: it was something deeper, bred by his lifelong claims and discontents; but Dorothea, now that she was present—Dorothea, as a young wife who herself had shown an offensive capability of criticism, necessarily gave concentration to the uneasiness which had before been vague.
如果正确的方针意味着比布鲁克先生演讲的其余部分更精确的话，卡苏邦先生默默地希望它指的是距洛伊克很远的某个职业。当威尔帮助他时，他不喜欢他，但现在威尔拒绝了他的帮助，他开始更加不喜欢他。当我们的性格中存在令人不安的嫉妒时，我们就会遇到这种情况：如果我们的才能主要是挖掘型的，那么我们的爱喝蜂蜜的表弟（我们有充分的理由反对他）很可能会暗自蔑视我们，任何钦佩他的人都会对我们自己进行间接的批评。我们灵魂中怀有正直的顾虑，因此不会卑鄙地伤害他——相反，我们会通过积极的利益来满足他对我们的所有要求；为他画下脸颊，这是他必须承认的一种优越感，使我们的痛苦更加温和。现在，卡苏邦先生的这种优越感被突然、反复无常地剥夺了（不仅仅是一种纪念）。他对威尔的反感并非源于对一个饱经严冬的丈夫普遍的嫉妒：这是一种更深层次的东西，是由他一生的主张和不满所孕育的；但是多萝西娅，既然她在场——多萝西娅，作为一个年轻的妻子，她自己也表现出了一种进攻性的批评能力，必然把注意力集中在以前模糊的不安上。

Will Ladislaw on his side felt that his dislike was flourishing at the expense of his gratitude, and spent much inward discourse in justifying the dislike. Casaubon hated him—he knew that very well; on his first entrance he could discern a bitterness in the mouth and a venom in the glance which would almost justify declaring war in spite of past benefits. He was much obliged to Casaubon in the past, but really the act of marrying this wife was a set-off against the obligation It was a question whether gratitude which refers to what is done for one’s self ought not to give way to indignation at what is done against another. And Casaubon had done a wrong to Dorothea in marrying her. A man was bound to know himself better than that, and if he chose to grow gray crunching bones in a cavern, he had no business to be luring a girl into his companionship. ‘It is the most horrible of virgin-sacrifices,’ said Will; and he painted to himself what were Dorothea’s inward sorrows as if he had been writing a choric wail. But he would never lose sight of her: he would watch over her—if he gave up everything else in life he would watch over her, and she should know that she had one slave in the world, Will had—to use Sir Thomas Browne’s phrase— a ‘passionate prodigality’ of statement both to himself and others. The simple truth was that nothing then invited him so strongly as the presence of Dorothea.
威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫则认为，他的厌恶情绪正在以牺牲他的感激之情为代价，因此他花了很多内心的话语来证明这种厌恶情绪的合理性。卡苏朋恨他——他很清楚这一点。当他第一次进来时，他就能感觉到嘴里的苦涩和眼神中的毒液，这几乎证明宣战是合理的，尽管过去有过好处。过去他对卡苏朋非常感激，但实际上娶这个妻子的行为是对义务的抵消。问题是，对自己所做的事情的感激是否不应该让位于对自己所做的事情的愤慨。是针对另一个人完成的。卡苏朋娶了多萝西娅，这对她来说是一种错误。一个男人一定比这更了解自己，如果他选择在洞穴里长出灰色的嘎吱嘎吱的骨头，他就没有理由引诱一个女孩加入他的陪伴。 “这是最可怕的处女牺牲，”威尔说。他向自己描绘了多萝西娅内心的悲伤，仿佛他在写一首合唱的哀号。但他永远不会失去她：他会照顾她——如果他放弃生活中的一切，他会照顾她，她应该知道她在世界上只有一个奴隶，威尔必须——使用托马斯·布朗爵士的奴隶短语——对自己和他人的“热情挥霍”。简单的事实是，没有什么比多萝西娅的出现更能吸引他了。

Invitations of the formal kind had been wanting, however, for Will had never been asked to go to Lowick. Mr. Brooke, indeed, confident of doing everything agreeable which Casaubon, poor fellow, was too much absorbed to think of, had arranged to bring Ladislaw to Lowick several times (not neglecting meanwhile to introduce him elsewhere on every opportunity as ‘a young relative of Casaubon’s’). And though Will had not seen Dorothea alone, their interviews had been enough to restore her former sense of young companionship with one who was cleverer than herself, yet seemed ready to be swayed by her. Poor Dorothea before her marriage had never found much room in other minds for what she cared most to say; and she had not, as we know, enjoyed her husband’s superior instruction so much as she had expected. If she spoke with any keenness of interest to Mr. Casaubon, he heard her with an air of patience as if she had given a quotation from the Delectus familiar to him from his tender years, and sometimes mentioned curtly what ancient sects or personages had held similar ideas, as if there were too much of that sort in stock already; at other times he would inform her that she was mistaken, and reassert what her remark had questioned.
然而，我们一直缺乏正式的邀请，因为威尔从未被邀请去洛威克。确实，布鲁克先生对卡索邦这个可怜的家伙全神贯注而无暇顾及的一切事情充满信心，多次安排将拉迪斯瓦夫带到洛威克（同时也不忘记利用每一个机会把他介绍到其他地方，作为“一个年轻的亲戚”）卡苏邦的”）。尽管威尔没有单独见过多萝西娅，但他们的会面足以让她恢复年轻时与一个比自己聪明但似乎准备被她左右的人的友谊。可怜的多萝西娅在结婚前从未在别人的心中找到足够的空间来表达她最想说的话；据我们所知，她并没有像她预想的那样享受丈夫的卓越指导。如果她对卡苏朋先生怀有浓厚的兴趣，他就会带着耐心地听她说话，仿佛她引用了他幼年时熟悉的《德莱克图斯》中的一段话，有时还简短地提到古代教派或人物所持有的观点。类似的想法，好像库存已经太多了；有时他会告诉她她错了，并重申她的言论所质疑的内容。

But Will Ladislaw always seemed to see more in what she said than she herself saw. Dorothea had little vanity, but she had the ardent woman’s need to rule beneficently by making the joy of another soul. Hence the mere chance of seeing Will occasionally was like a lunette opened in the wall of her prison, giving her a glimpse of the sunny air; and this pleasure began to nullify her original alarm at what her husband might think about the introduction of Will as her uncle’s guest. On this subject Mr. Casaubon had remained dumb.
但威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫从她所说的话中看到的似乎总是比她自己看到的更多。多萝西娅没有什么虚荣心，但她有一个热心女人的需要，即通过为另一个灵魂带来欢乐来进行仁慈的统治。因此，偶尔见到威尔的机会就像在她监狱的墙上开了一个半月形，让她瞥见阳光明媚的空气；这种快乐开始消除了她最初对丈夫介绍威尔作为她叔叔的客人可能有何看法的担忧。在这个问题上，卡苏邦先生一直保持沉默。

But Will wanted to talk with Dorothea alone, and was impatient of slow circumstance. However slight the terrestrial intercourse between Dante and Beatrice or Petrarch and Laura, time changes the proportion of things, and in later days it is preferable to have fewer sonnets and more conversation. Necessity excused stratagem, but stratagem was limited by the dread of offending Dorothea. He found out at last that he wanted to take a particular sketch at Lowick; and one morning when Mr. Brooke had to drive along the Lowick road on his way to the county town, Will asked to be set down with his sketch-book and camp-stool at Lowick, and without announcing himself at the Manor settled himself to sketch in a position where he must see Dorothea if she came out to walk— and he knew that she usually walked an hour in the morning.
但威尔想单独和多萝西娅谈谈，并且对缓慢的情况感到不耐烦。无论但丁和比阿特丽斯或彼特拉克和劳拉之间的尘世交往多么轻微，时间改变了事物的比例，在以后的日子里，最好少写十四行诗，多说话。出于必要，可以采取计谋，但由于害怕冒犯多萝西娅，计谋受到了限制。他最后发现他想在洛威克画一幅特别的素描。一天早上，当布鲁克先生不得不沿着洛威克路开车前往县城时，威尔要求在洛威克放下他的素描本和露营凳，并没有宣布自己在庄园里。素描的位置是，如果多萝西娅出来散步，他一定能看到她——而且他知道她通常早上散步一个小时。

But the stratagem was defeated by the weather. Clouds gathered with treacherous quickness, the rain came down, and Will was obliged to take shelter in the house. He intended, on the strength of relationship, to go into the drawing-room and wait there without being announced; and seeing his old acquaintance the butler in the hall, he said, ‘Don’t mention that I am here, Pratt; I will wait till luncheon; I know Mr. Casaubon does not like to be disturbed when he is in the library.’
但这个计谋因天气而落空。云层迅速聚集，雨倾盆而下，威尔不得不躲进屋里。凭借关系，他打算不经通知就进入客厅等候。当他看到大厅里的老熟人管家时，他说道：“普拉特，别提我在这里；我会等到午餐；我知道卡苏邦先生在图书馆时不喜欢被打扰。

‘Master is out, sir; there’s only Mrs. Casaubon in the library. I’d better tell her you’re here, sir,’ said Pratt, a red-cheeked man given to lively converse with Tantripp, and often agreeing with her that it must be dull for Madam.
“主人出去了，先生；图书馆里只有卡索邦夫人。我最好告诉她你在这里，先生。”普拉特说道，他是一个红脸颊的男人，习惯于与坦特里普进行热烈的交谈，并且经常同意她的观点，这对夫人来说一定很无聊。

‘Oh, very well; this confounded rain has hindered me from sketching,’ said Will, feeling so happy that he affected indifference with delightful ease.
'哦，很好;这场混乱的雨妨碍了我画画。”威尔说，他感到非常高兴，轻松地装出一副漠不关心的样子。

In another minute he was in the library, and Dorothea was meeting him with her sweet unconstrained smile.
又过了一分钟，他就到了图书馆，多萝西娅带着甜美、不受约束的微笑迎接他。

‘Mr. Casaubon has gone to the Archdeacon’s,’ she said, at once. ‘I don’t know whether he will be at home again long before dinner. He was uncertain how long he should be. Did you want to say anything particular to him?’
'先生。卡索邦已经去了副主教家了。”她立刻说道。 “我不知道他是否会在晚饭前很久再次回到家。他不确定自己应该待多久。你有什么特别想对他说的吗？

‘No; I came to sketch, but the rain drove me in. Else I would not have disturbed you yet. I supposed that Mr. Casaubon was here, and I know he dislikes interruption at this hour.’
'不;我是来写生的，但是雨把我赶了进去，不然我也不会打扰你了。我猜想卡苏邦先生在这里，而且我知道他不喜欢这个时候被打扰。

‘I am indebted to the rain, then. I am so glad to see you.’ Dorothea uttered these common words with the simple sincerity of an unhappy child, visited at school.
“那么，我就欠下雨了。”我很高兴见到你。”多萝西娅以一个在学校拜访的不快乐的孩子的朴素真诚说出了这些常见的话。

‘I really came for the chance of seeing you alone,’ said Will, mysteriously forced to be just as simple as she was. He could not stay to ask himself, why not? ‘I wanted to talk about things, as we did in Rome. It always makes a difference when other people are present.’
“我来真的是为了有机会单独见到你，”威尔说，神秘地被迫像她一样简单。他无法留下来问自己，为什么不呢？ “我想谈论一些事情，就像我们在罗马所做的那样。当其他人在场时，事情总是会有所不同。

‘Yes,’ said Dorothea, in her clear full tone of assent. ‘Sit down.’ She seated herself on a dark ottoman with the brown books behind her, looking in her plain dress of some thin woollen-white material, without a single ornament on her besides her wedding-ring, as if she were under a vow to be different from all other women; and Will sat down opposite her at two yards’ distance, the light falling on his bright curls and delicate but rather petulant profile, with its defiant curves of lip and chin. Each looked at the other as if they had been two flowers which had opened then and there. Dorothea for the moment forgot her husband’s mysterious irritation against Will: it seemed fresh water at her thirsty lips to speak without fear to the one person whom she had found receptive; for in looking backward through sadness she exaggerated a past solace.
“是的，”多萝西娅用她清晰、饱满的同意语气说道。 “坐下。”她坐在一张深色的脚凳上，棕色的书在她身后，她穿着一件薄薄的羊毛白色布料制成的朴素连衣裙，除了结婚戒指外，身上没有任何装饰，仿佛她穿着一身薄纱。发誓要与其他女人不同；威尔在她对面坐下，距离她两码远，光线落在他明亮的卷发和精致但相当任性的侧面上，嘴唇和下巴的曲线充满挑衅。他们彼此看着对方，仿佛他们是两朵花，就在此时此地绽放。多萝西娅一时忘记了她丈夫对威尔的神秘恼怒：她干渴的嘴唇上仿佛有淡水，毫无畏惧地与她发现的那个愿意接受的人说话；她感到很高兴。因为在悲伤中回顾过去时，她夸大了过去的安慰。

‘I have often thought that I should like to talk to you again,’ she said, immediately. ‘It seems strange to me how many things I said to you.’
“我经常想我应该再次和你谈谈，”她立即说道。 “我对你说了这么多话，我觉得很奇怪。”

‘I remember them all,’ said Will, with the unspeakable content in his soul of feeling that he was in the presence of a creature worthy to be perfectly loved. I think his own feelings at that moment were perfect, for we mortals have our divine moments, when love is satisfied in the completeness the beloved object.
“我都记得，”威尔说，他的灵魂深处感到难以言表的满足，因为他感觉自己面对的是一个值得被完全爱的生物。我认为他自己在那一刻的感受是完美的，因为我们凡人都有神圣的时刻，当爱在心爱的对象的完整性中得到满足。

‘I have tried to learn a great deal since we were in Rome,’ said Dorothea. ‘I can read Latin a little, and I am beginning to understand just a little Greek. I can help Mr. Casaubon better now. I can find out references for him and save his eyes in many ways. But it is very difficult to be learned; it seems as if people were worn out on the way to great thoughts, and can never enjoy them because they are too tired.’
“自从我们来到罗马以来，我一直努力学习很多东西，”多萝西娅说。 “我能读一点拉丁语，而且我开始懂一点希腊语。我现在可以更好地帮助卡苏邦先生了。我可以通过多种方式为他找到参考资料，挽救他的眼睛。但学起来却非常困难；似乎人们在通往伟大思想的路上已经疲惫不堪，而且永远无法享受它们，因为他们太累了。

‘If a man has a capacity for great thoughts, he is likely to overtake them before he is decrepit,’ said Will, with irrepressible quickness. But through certain sensibilities Dorothea was as quick as he, and seeing her face change, he added, immediately, ‘But it is quite true that the best minds have been sometimes overstrained in working out their ideas.’
“如果一个人有能力产生伟大的思想，他很可能会在衰老之前超越这些思想，”威尔以难以抑制的敏捷说道。但在某些方面，多萝西娅的反应速度和他一样快，看到她的脸色发生变化，他立即补充道，“但确实，最优秀的头脑有时在思考自己的想法时会过度紧张。”

‘You correct me,’ said Dorothea. ‘I expressed myself ill. I should have said that those who have great thoughts get too much worn in working them out. I used to feel about that, even when I was a little girl; and it always seemed to me that the use I should like to make of my life would be to help some one who did great works, so that his burthen might be lighter.’
“你纠正我了，”多萝西娅说。 “我表达了自己的不适。我应该说，那些有伟大想法的人在实现这些想法时会感到疲惫不堪。即使当我还是个小女孩的时候，我也曾有过这样的感觉。在我看来，我应该利用自己的生命来帮助那些做出了伟大贡献的人，这样他的负担就会减轻一些。

Dorothea was led on to this bit of autobiography without any sense of making a revelation. But she had never before said anything to Will which threw so strong a light on her marriage. He did not shrug his shoulders; and for want of that muscular outlet he thought the more irritably of beautiful lips kissing holy skulls and other emptinesses ecclesiastically enshrined. Also he had to take care that his speech should not betray that thought.
多萝西娅在没有任何揭露真相的情况下就读了这段自传。但她以前从未对威尔说过任何让她的婚姻受到如此强烈影响的话语。他没有耸肩，而是耸了耸肩。由于缺乏肌肉的出口，他认为美丽的嘴唇亲吻神圣的头骨和教会所供奉的其他空虚会更加烦躁。他还必须注意他的讲话不应该泄露这个想法。

‘But you may easily carry the help too far,’ he said, ‘and get over-wrought yourself. Are you not too much shut up? You already look paler. It would be better for Mr. Casaubon to have a secretary; he could easily get a man who would do half his work for him. It would save him more effectually, and you need only help him in lighter ways.’
“但你可能很容易把帮助做得太过分，”他说，“让自己过度劳累。”你是不是太闭嘴了？你看起来已经更苍白了。卡苏邦先生最好有一名秘书；他很容易找到一个能为他做一半工作的人。这样会更有效地救他，你只需要用更轻松的方式帮助他。

‘How can you think of that?’ said Dorothea, in a tone of earnest remonstrance. ‘I should have no happiness if I did not help him in his work. What could I do? There is no good to be done in Lowick. The only thing I desire is to help him more. And he objects to a secretary: please not to mention that again.’
“你怎么能想到这个？”多萝西娅用恳切的抗议语气说道。 “如果我不帮助他工作，我就不会有幸福。”我能做什么？在洛威克没有什么好事可做。我唯一的愿望就是能​​够帮助他更多。他还反对秘书：请不要再提这件事了。

‘Certainly not, now I know your feeling. But I have heard both Mr. Brooke and Sir James Chettam express the same wish.’
“当然不是，现在我知道你的感受了。但我听到布鲁克先生和詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士都表达了同样的愿望。

‘Yes?’ said Dorothea, ‘but they don’t understand—they want me to be a great deal on horseback, and have the garden altered and new conservatories, to fill up my days. I thought you could understand that one’s mind has other wants,’ she added, rather impatiently— ‘besides, Mr. Casaubon cannot bear to hear of a secretary.’
“是吗？”多萝西娅说，“但他们不明白——他们希望我经常骑在马背上，并改造花园和新的温室，以充实我的生活。我以为你能理解一个人的心里有其他的愿望，”她相当不耐烦地补充道，“而且，卡苏邦先生无法忍受听到秘书的事。”

‘My mistake is excusable,’ said Will. ‘In old days I used to hear Mr. Casaubon speak as if he looked forward to having a secretary. Indeed he held out the prospect of that office to me. But I turned out to be—not good enough for it.’
“我的错误是可以原谅的，”威尔说。 “以前我经常听到卡苏邦先生说话，好像他期待有一位秘书。事实上，他向我展示了担任该职位的前景。但事实证明我还不够好。

Dorothea was trying to extract out of this an excuse for her husband’s evident repulsion, as she said, with a playful smile, ‘You were not a steady worker enough.’
多萝西娅试图从中找出丈夫明显反感的借口，她俏皮地微笑着说：“你还不够稳定。”

‘No,’ said Will, shaking his head backward somewhat after the manner of a-spirited horse. And then, the old irritable demon prompting him to give another good pinch at the moth-wings of poor Mr. Casaubon’s glory, he went on, ‘And I have seen since that Mr. Casaubon does not like any one to overlook his work. and know thoroughly what he is doing. He is too doubtful—too uncertain of himself. I may not be good for much, but he dislikes me because I disagree with him.’
“不，”威尔说，像没有精神的马一样向后摇了摇头。然后，那个烦躁的老恶魔促使他再狠狠地掐一下可怜的卡苏邦先生的荣耀的飞蛾翅膀，他继续说道，“从那以后我就发现卡苏邦先生不喜欢任何人忽视他的工作。”并彻底了解他在做什么。他太怀疑了——对自己太不确定了。我可能没什么用处，但他不喜欢我，因为我不同意他的观点。

Will was not without his intentions to be always generous, but our tongues are little triggers which have usually been pulled before general intentions can be brought to bear. And it was too intolerable that Casaubon’s dislike of him should not be fairly accounted for to Dorothea. Yet when he had spoken he was rather uneasy as to the effect on her.
威尔并非没有意图总是慷慨大方，但我们的舌头就像小扳机，通常在总体意图得以实现之前就被拉动了。令人难以忍受的是，卡苏朋对他的厌恶不应该公平地告诉多萝西娅。然而，当他说话时，他对这对她的影响感到相当不安。

But Dorothea was strangely quiet—not immediately indignant, as she had been on a like occasion in Rome. And the cause lay deep. She was no longer struggling against the perception of facts, but adjusting herself to their clearest perception; and now when she looked steadily at her husband’s failure, still more at his possible consciousness of failure, she seemed to be looking along the one tract where duty became tenderness. Will’s want of reticence might have been met with more severity, if he had not already been recommended to her mercy by her husband’s dislike, which must seem hard to her till she saw better reason for it.
但多萝西娅出奇地安静——并没有像在罗马的类似场合那样立即感到愤怒。原因很深。她不再与事实的认知作斗争，而是调整自己以适应他们最清晰的认知；现在，当她坚定地注视着丈夫的失败，尤其是他可能意识到的失败时，她似乎正在沿着一条责任变成温柔的道路寻找。威尔的沉默寡言可能会受到更严厉的对待，如果他没有因为她丈夫的厌恶而被推荐给她仁慈的话，这对她来说一定很难接受，直到她找到更好的理由。

She did not answer at once, but after looking down ruminatingly she said, with some earnestness, ‘Mr. Casaubon must have overcome his dislike of you so far as his actions were concerned: and that is admirable.’
她没有立刻回答，低头沉思之后，有些认真地说道：“先生。”就卡苏朋的行为而言，他一定已经克服了对你的厌恶：这是令人钦佩的。

‘Yes; he has shown a sense of justice in family matters. It was an abominable thing that my grandmother should have been disinherited because she made what they called a mesalliance, though there was nothing to be said against her husband except that he was a Polish refugee who gave lessons for his bread.’
'是的;他在家庭事务上表现出了正义感。这是一件令人憎恶的事情，我的祖母应该被剥夺继承权，因为她做了他们所谓的“Mesalliance”，尽管没有什么可以反对她的丈夫，除了他是一个波兰难民，为他的面包而上课。

‘I wish I knew all about her!’ said Dorothea. ‘I wonder how she bore the change from wealth to poverty: I wonder whether she was happy with her husband! Do you know much about them?’
“我希望我了解她的一切！”多萝西娅说。 “我不知道她是如何承受从富裕到贫穷的转变：我不知道她和她的丈夫是否幸福！”你对他们了解很多吗？

‘No; only that my grandfather was a patriot—a bright fellow— could speak many languages—musical—got his bread by teaching all sorts of things. They both died rather early. And I never knew much of my father, beyond what my mother told me; but he inherited the musical talents. I remember his slow walk and his long thin hands; and one day remains with me when he was lying ill, and I was very hungry, and had only a little bit of bread.’
'不;只是我的祖父是一位爱国者——一个聪明的小伙子——会说多种语言——音乐——通过教授各种各样的东西来谋生。他们俩都死得很早。除了母亲告诉我的以外，我对父亲的了解并不多。但他继承了音乐天赋。我记得他缓慢的步伐和他细长的双手；有一天，他病了，我很饿，只吃了一点面包。

‘Ah, what a different life from mine!’ said Dorothea, with keen interest, clasping her hands on her lap. ‘I have always had too much of everything. But tell me how it was— Mr. Casaubon could not have known about you then.’
“啊，这与我的生活多么不同啊！”多萝西娅饶有兴趣地说，双手紧握在腿上。 “我总是对一切都吃得太多。但告诉我那是怎么回事——卡苏邦先生当时不可能知道你的事。”

‘No; but my father had made himself known to Mr. Casaubon, and that was my last hungry day. My father died soon after, and my mother and I were well taken care of. Mr. Casaubon always expressly recognized it as his duty to take care of us because of the harsh injustice which had been shown to his mother’s sister. But now I am telling you what is not new to you.’
'不;但我父亲已经向卡苏邦先生表明了自己的身份，那是我饥饿的最后一天。不久父亲就去世了，我和母亲得到了很好的照顾。卡苏邦先生总是明确地承认照顾我们是他的责任，因为他母亲的妹妹受到了严重的不公正对待。但现在我告诉你的事情对你来说并不新鲜。

In his inmost soul Will was conscious of wishing to tell Dorothea what was rather new even in his own construction of things— namely, that Mr. Casaubon had never done more than pay a debt towards him. Will was much too good a fellow to be easy under the sense of being ungrateful. And when gratitude has become a matter of reasoning there are many ways of escaping from its bonds.
在他的内心深处，威尔意识到他希望告诉多萝西娅什么是相当新的，甚至在他自己的构建中也是如此——也就是说，卡苏邦先生从来没有做过比他还债更多的事情。威尔是一个太好的人了，他不会因为忘恩负义而心存侥幸。当感恩成为一种推理问题时，就有很多方法可以摆脱它的束缚。

‘No,’ answered Dorothea; ‘Mr. Casaubon has always avoided dwelling on his own honorable actions.’ She did not feel that her husband’s conduct was depreciated; but this notion of what justice had required in his relations with Will Ladislaw took strong hold on her mind. After a moment’s pause, she added, ‘He had never told me that he supported your mother. Is she still living?’
“不，”多萝西娅回答道。 '先生。卡苏邦一直避免沉溺于自己的光荣行为。”她并不觉得她丈夫的行为受到贬低；相反，她认为丈夫的行为受到了贬低。但是，在他与威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的关系中，正义所要求的这一观念牢牢地扎根在她的脑海里。停顿了一会儿，她补充道：“他从来没有告诉过我他支持你的母亲。”她还活着吗？

‘No; she died by an accident—a fall—four years ago. It is curious that my mother, too, ran away from her family, but not for the sake of her husband. She never would tell me anything about her family, except that she forsook them to get her own living—went on the stage, in fact. She was a dark-eyed creature, with crisp ringlets, and never seemed to be getting old. You see I come of rebellious blood on both sides,’ Will ended, smiling brightly at Dorothea, while she was still looking with serious intentness before her, like a child seeing a drama for the first time.
'不;四年前，她因一次意外坠落而去世。奇怪的是，我的母亲也逃离了家人，但并不是为了她的丈夫。她从来不会告诉我任何关于她家庭的事情，除了她为了谋生而抛弃了他们——事实上，她是为了自己的生活而走上舞台的。她是一个黑眼睛的生物，留着清爽的卷发，似乎永远不会变老。你看，我两边都有叛逆的血统。”威尔最后对多萝西娅灿烂地微笑着，而她仍然专注地看着前方，就像一个第一次看戏剧的孩子一样。

But her face, too, broke into a smile as she said, ‘That is your apology, I suppose, for having yourself been rather rebellious; I mean, to Mr. Casaubon’s wishes. You must remember that you have not done what he thought best for you. And if he dislikes you— you were speaking of dislike a little while ago—but I should rather say, if he has shown any painful feelings towards you, you must consider how sensitive he has become from the wearing effect of study. Perhaps,’ she continued, getting into a pleading tone, ‘my uncle has not told you how serious Mr. Casaubon’s illness was. It would be very petty of us who are well and can bear things, to think much of small offences from those who carry a weight of trial.’
但她的脸上也绽开了笑容，说道：“我想，这就是你为自己的叛逆而道歉的原因；”我的意思是，按照卡苏邦先生的意愿。你必须记住，你没有做他认为最适合你的事情。而如果他不喜欢你——你刚才说的是不喜欢——但我更应该说，如果他对你表现出任何痛苦的感觉，你必须考虑到他因学习的磨损而变得多么敏感。也许，”她用恳求的语气继续说道，“我叔叔没有告诉你卡苏邦先生的病有多严重。对于我们这些身体健康、能承受一切的人来说，如果对那些承受着审判重担的人的小小冒犯太过重视，那就太小气了。

‘You teach me better,’ said Will. ‘I will never grumble on that subject again.’ There was a gentleness in his tone which came from the unutterable contentment of perceiving—what Dorothea was hardly conscious of—that she was travelling into the remoteness of pure pity and loyalty towards her husband. Will was ready to adore her pity and loyalty, if she would associate himself with her in manifesting them. ‘I have really sometimes been a perverse fellow,’ he went on, ‘but I will never again, if I can help it, do or say what you would disapprove.’
“你教得更好，”威尔说。 “我再也不会在这个问题上发牢骚了。”他的语气里有一种温柔，这是因为她感到难以言喻的满足——多萝西娅几乎没有意识到——她正在走向对丈夫的纯粹怜悯和忠诚。威尔准备好崇拜她的怜悯和忠诚，如果她愿意与她一起表现出来的话。 “我有时确实是个乖僻的人，”他继续说道，“但如果可以的话，我再也不会做或说你不赞成的事情了。”

‘That is very good of you,’ said Dorothea, with another open smile. ‘I shall have a little kingdom then, where I shall give laws. But you will soon go away, out of my rule, I imagine. You will soon be tired of staying at the Grange.’
“你真是太好了，”多萝西娅说道，脸上又露出了灿烂的笑容。 “那么我将拥有一个小王国，我将在那里制定法律。但我想你很快就会离开我的统治。你很快就会厌倦呆在农庄的。

‘That is a point I wanted to mention to you—one of the reasons why I wished to speak to you alone. Mr. Brooke proposes that I should stay in this neighborhood. He has bought one of the Middlemarch newspapers, and he wishes me to conduct that, and also to help him in other ways.’
“这就是我想向你提及的一点——这也是我想单独与你交谈的原因之一。布鲁克先生建议我留在这个街区。他买了一份《米德尔马契》报纸，他希望我能帮他办这件事，并在其他方面帮助他。”

‘Would not that be a sacrifice of higher prospects for you?’ said Dorothea.
“这对你来说不是牺牲了更高的前景吗？”多萝西娅说。

‘Perhaps; but I have always been blamed for thinking of prospects, and not settling to anything. And here is something offered to me. If you would not like me to accept it, I will give it up. Otherwise I would rather stay in this part of the country than go away. I belong to nobody anywhere else.’
'也许;但我总是被指责只考虑前景，不满足任何事情。这是提供给我的东西。如果你不愿意我接受，我就放弃。否则我宁愿留在这个国家的这个地区也不愿离开。我不属于任何其他地方。

‘I should like you to stay very much,’ said Dorothea, at once, as simply and readily as she had spoken at Rome. There was not the shadow of a reason in her mind at the moment why she should not say so.
“我非常希望你留下来，”多萝西娅立即说道，就像她在罗马时所说的那样简单而轻松。此刻，她的脑海里根本就没有任何不应该这么说的理由。

‘Then I WILL stay,’ said Ladislaw, shaking his head backward, rising and going towards the window, as if to see whether the rain had ceased.
“那我就留下来，”拉迪斯瓦夫说着，向后摇了摇头，站起身来，朝窗户走去，仿佛想看看雨是否已经停了。

But the next moment, Dorothea, according to a habit which was getting continually stronger, began to reflect that her husband felt differently from herself, and she colored deeply under the double embarrassment of having expressed what might be in opposition to her husband’s feeling, and of having to suggest this opposition to Will. If is face was not turned towards her, and this made it easier to say—
但下一刻，多萝西娅按照一种越来越强烈的习惯，开始反思她丈夫的感受与自己不同，她因表达了可能与丈夫的感受相反的言论而感到深深的羞愧。不得不向威尔提出反对意见。如果他的脸没有转向她，这样就更容易说——

‘But my opinion is of little consequence on such a subject. I think you should be guided by Mr. Casaubon. I spoke without thinking of anything else than my own feeling, which has nothing to do with the real question. But it now occurs to me— perhaps Mr. Casaubon might see that the proposal was not wise. Can you not wait now and mention it to him?’
“但我的观点对这样的话题影响不大。我认为你应该接受卡苏邦先生的指导。我说话时没有考虑任何其他事情，只考虑自己的感受，这与真正的问题无关。但现在我想到——也许卡苏邦先生可能会认为这个提议并不明智。你现在不能等一下向他提起吗？

‘I can’t wait to-day,’ said Will, inwardly seared by the possibility that Mr. Casaubon would enter. ‘The rain is quite over now. I told Mr. Brooke not to call for me: I would rather walk the five miles. I shall strike across Halsell Common, and see the gleams on the wet grass. I like that.’
“我今天已经等不及了，”威尔说，卡苏邦先生可能会进来，他内心感到焦灼。 ‘雨现在已经停了。我告诉布鲁克先生不要叫我：我宁愿步行五英里。我将穿越哈塞尔公地，看到湿草地上的微光。我喜欢。'

He approached her to shake hands quite hurriedly, longing but not daring to say, ‘Don’t mention the subject to Mr. Casaubon.’ No, he dared not, could not say it. To ask her to be less simple and direct would be like breathing on the crystal that you want to see the light through. And there was always the other great dread— of himself becoming dimmed and forever ray-shorn in her eyes.
他急忙走到她跟前握手，渴望却又不敢说：“别向卡苏朋先生提这个话题。”不，他不敢，也说不出来。要求她不那么简单和直接就像在水晶上呼吸一样，你想透过水晶看到光。而且总是有另一种巨大的恐惧——他自己在她的眼中变得黯淡无光，永远被光线撕裂。

‘I wish you could have stayed,’ said Dorothea, with a touch of mournfulness, as she rose and put out her hand. She also had her thought which she did not like to express:—Will certainly ought to lose no time in consulting Mr. Casaubon’s wishes, but for her to urge this might seem an undue dictation.
“我希望你能留下来，”多萝西娅站起来伸出手，语气里带着一丝悲伤。她也有她不愿意表达的想法：——威尔当然应该不失时机地征求卡苏邦先生的意愿，但对她来说，这么要求似乎是一种不适当的命令。

So they only said ‘Good-by,’ and Will quitted the house, striking across the fields so as not to run any risk of encountering Mr. Casaubon’s carriage, which, however, did not appear at the gate until four o’clock. That was an unpropitious hour for coming home: it was too early to gain the moral support under ennui of dressing his person for dinner, and too late to undress his mind of the day’s frivolous ceremony and affairs, so as to be prepared for a good plunge into the serious business of study. On such occasions he usually threw into an easy-chair in the library, and allowed Dorothea to read the London papers to him, closing his eyes the while. To-day, however, he declined that relief, observing that he had already had too many public details urged upon him; but he spoke more cheerfully than usual, when Dorothea asked about his fatigue, and added with that air of formal effort which never forsook him even when he spoke without his waistcoat and cravat—
于是他们只说了一声“再见”，威尔就离开了家，穿过田野，以免遇到卡苏邦先生的马车，然而，卡苏邦先生的马车直到四点钟才出现在门口。这对于回家来说是一个不吉利的时刻：在为晚餐穿好衣服的倦怠中获得道义上的支持还为时过早，而要让他摆脱当天琐碎的仪式和事务的束缚，为美好的一天做好准备，又太晚了。投入到严肃的学习中。在这种情况下，他通常会在图书馆的一张安乐椅上坐下，让多萝西娅给他读伦敦报纸，同时闭上眼睛。然而今天，他拒绝了这种宽慰，因为他发现自己已经收到了太多公开细节。但当多萝西娅询问他的疲劳情况时，他的语气比平时更加​​愉快，并补充道，他的态度正式而努力，即使在他不穿背心和领带说话时，这种态度也从未放弃过——

‘I have had the gratification of meeting my former acquaintance, Dr. Spanning, to-day, and of being praised by one who is himself a worthy recipient of praise. He spoke very handsomely of my late tractate on the Egyptian Mysteries,—using, in fact, terms which it would not become me to repeat.’ In uttering the last clause, Mr. Casaubon leaned over the elbow of his chair, and swayed his head up and down, apparently as a muscular outlet instead of that recapitulation which would not have been becoming.
“今天，我很高兴见到了我以前的熟人斯潘宁博士，并受到了一位值得赞扬的人的赞扬。他非常漂亮地谈到了我最近关于埃及之谜的论文，事实上，使用了我不适合重复的术语。头部上下移动，显然是作为肌肉的出口，而不是那种本来不合适的重演。

‘I am very glad you have had that pleasure,’ said Dorothea, delighted to see her husband less weary than usual at this hour. ‘Before you came I had been regretting that you happened to be out to-day.’
“我很高兴你有这样的乐趣，”多萝西娅说道，她很高兴看到她的丈夫此时比平时没有那么疲倦。 “在你来之前，我一直很遗憾你今天正好出去了。”

‘Why so, my dear?’ said Mr. Casaubon, throwing himself backward again.
“为什么会这样，亲爱的？”卡苏邦先生说着，又向后仰了仰。

‘Because Mr. Ladislaw has been here; and he has mentioned a proposal of my uncle’s which I should like to know your opinion of.’ Her husband she felt was really concerned in this question. Even with her ignorance of the world she had a vague impression that the position offered to Will was out of keeping with his family connections, and certainly Mr. Casaubon had a claim to be consulted. He did not speak, but merely bowed.
‘因为拉迪斯瓦夫先生来过这里；他提到了我叔叔的一项提议，我想知道你的看法。”她觉得她的丈夫非常关心这个问题。尽管她对世界一无所知，但她还是有一种模糊的印象，认为提供给威尔的职位与他的家庭关系不相符，而且卡苏邦先生当然有权要求征求意见。他没有说话，只是鞠了一躬。

‘Dear uncle, you know, has many projects. It appears that he has bought one of the Middlemarch newspapers, and he has asked Mr. Ladislaw to stay in this neighborhood and conduct the paper for him, besides helping him in other ways.’
‘亲爱的叔叔，你知道，他有很多项目。看来他买了一份《米德尔马契》报纸，除了以其他方式帮助他之外，他还要求拉迪斯瓦夫先生留在这个街区，为他管理这份报纸。

Dorothea looked at her husband while she spoke, but he had at first blinked and finally closed his eyes, as if to save them; while his lips became more tense. ‘What is your opinion?’ she added, rather timidly, after a slight pause.
多萝西娅一边说话，一边看着她的丈夫，但他先是眨了眨眼，最后闭上了眼睛，仿佛要拯救他们。同时他的嘴唇也变得更加紧张。 “你的意见是什么？”稍稍停顿后，她相当胆怯地补充道。

‘Did Mr. Ladislaw come on purpose to ask my opinion?’ said Mr. Casaubon, opening his eyes narrowly with a knife-edged look at Dorothea. She was really uncomfortable on the point he inquired about, but she only became a little more serious, and her eyes did not swerve.
“拉迪斯瓦夫先生是故意来征求我的意见的吗？”卡苏邦先生说，他眯起眼睛，用刀锋般的眼神看着多萝西娅。被他问到的那点，她确实很不舒服，但只是严肃了一些，目光却没有移开。

‘No,’ she answered immediately, ‘he did not say that he came to ask your opinion. But when he mentioned the proposal, he of course expected me to tell you of it.’
“不，”她立即回答，“他并没有说他是来征求你的意见的。”但当他提到这个提议时，他当然希望我告诉你。”

Mr. Casaubon was silent.
卡苏邦先生沉默了。

‘I feared that you might feel some objection. But certainly a young man with so much talent might be very useful to my uncle— might help him to do good in a better way. And Mr. Ladislaw wishes to have some fixed occupation. He has been blamed, he says, for not seeking something of that kind, and he would like to stay in this neighborhood because no one cares for him elsewhere.’
“我担心你可能会反对。但毫无疑问，一个如此有才华的年轻人可能对我叔叔非常有用——可能会帮助他更好地做好事。拉迪斯瓦夫先生希望有一些固定的职业。他说，他因为没有寻求类似的东西而受到指责，他想留在这个社区，因为其他地方没有人关心他。

Dorothea felt that this was a consideration to soften her husband. However, he did not speak, and she presently recurred to Dr. Spanning and the Archdeacon’s breakfast. But there was no longer sunshine on these subjects.
多萝西娅觉得这是软化丈夫的考虑。然而，他没有说话，她很快又想起了斯潘宁博士和副主教的早餐。但这些话题不再有阳光。

The next morning, without Dorothea’s knowledge, Mr. Casaubon despatched the following letter, beginning ‘Dear Mr. Ladislaw’ (he had always before addressed him as ‘Will’):—
第二天早上，在多萝西娅不知情的情况下，卡苏邦先生寄出了以下信，开头是“亲爱的拉迪斯瓦夫先生”（他以前一直称呼他为“威尔”）：

‘Mrs. Casaubon informs me that a proposal has been made to you, and (according to an inference by no means stretched) has on your part been in some degree entertained, which involves your residence in this neighborhood in a capacity which I am justified in saying touches my own position in such a way as renders it not only natural and warrantable IN me when that effect is viewed under the influence of legitimate feeling, but incumbent on me when the same effect is considered in the light of my responsibilities, to state at once that your acceptance of the proposal above indicated would be highly offensive to me. That I have some claim to the exercise of a veto here, would not, I believe, be denied by any reasonable person cognizant of the relations between us: relations which, though thrown into the past by your recent procedure, are not thereby annulled in their character of determining antecedents. I will not here make reflections on any person’s judgment. It is enough for me to point out to yourself that there are certain social fitnesses and proprieties which should hinder a somewhat near relative of mine from becoming any wise conspicuous in this vicinity in a status not only much beneath my own, but associated at best with the sciolism of literary or political adventurers. At any rate, the contrary issue must exclude you from further reception at my house.
'太太。卡索邦告诉我，有人向你提出了一项建议，并且（根据绝非夸大的推论）你已经在某种程度上接受了，这涉及你在这个社区的居住，我有理由说接触我自己的立场，使得它不仅在我看来是在合法情感的影响下自然且有保证的，而且是在根据我的责任考虑相同效果时我有责任立即声明你接受上述建议将令我感到非常反感。我相信，我在这里有权行使否决权，任何了解我们之间关系的理性人士都不会否认这一点：这种关系虽然被你们最近的程序抛到了过去，但并没有因此而被废除。他们决定前因的特征。我不会在这里对任何人的判断进行反思。我只要向自己指出，某些社会适应性和礼节应该会阻碍我的一位近亲在这附近成为任何引人注目的智者，其地位不仅远低于我自己，而且最多只能与我相关。文学或政治冒险家的社会主义。无论如何，相反的问题必须排除你在我家进一步接待。

Yours faithfully,
此致，

‘EDWARD CASAUBON.’
“爱德华·卡索邦。”

Meanwhile Dorothea’s mind was innocently at work towards the further embitterment of her husband; dwelling, with a sympathy that grew to agitation, on what Will had told her about his parents and grandparents. Any private hours in her day were usually spent in her blue-green boudoir, and she had come to be very fond of its pallid quaintness. Nothing had been outwardly altered there; but while the summer had gradually advanced over the western fields beyond the avenue of elms, the bare room had gathered within it those memories of an inward life which fill the air as with a cloud of good or had angels, the invisible yet active forms of our spiritual triumphs or our spiritual falls. She had been so used to struggle for and to find resolve in looking along the avenue towards the arch of western light that the vision itself had gained a communicating power. Even the pale stag seemed to have reminding glances and to mean mutely, ‘Yes, we know.’ And the group of delicately touched miniatures had made an audience as of beings no longer disturbed about their own earthly lot, but still humanly interested. Especially the mysterious ‘Aunt Julia’ about whom Dorothea had never found it easy to question her husband.
与此同时，多萝西娅的心思天真地在使她丈夫更加痛苦。怀着一种逐渐变得激动的同情，回想起威尔告诉她的有关他父母和祖父母的事情。她一天中的任何私人时间通常都是在她蓝绿色的闺房里度过的，她非常喜欢它苍白的古朴。那里的表面没有任何改变；但是，当夏天逐渐降临到榆树大道之外的西边田野时，空荡荡的房间里却聚集了一些关于内心生活的记忆，这些记忆充满在空气中，就像一朵善良的云彩或天使一样，是看不见的但活跃的形式。我们精神上的胜利或精神上的堕落。她已经习惯了沿着大道向西边的光拱门望去，为之奋斗并找到决心，以至于视觉本身已经获得了沟通的力量。就连苍白的雄鹿似乎也有提醒的目光，无声地表示：“是的，我们知道。”而这组精致的微缩模型让观众不再为自己的尘世命运而烦恼，但仍然对人类感兴趣。尤其是神秘的“朱莉娅姨妈”，多萝西娅从来不觉得向她的丈夫提出质疑是件容易的事。

And now, since her conversation with Will, many fresh images had gathered round that Aunt Julia who was Will’s grandmother; the presence of that delicate miniature, so like a living face that she knew, helping to concentrate her feelings. What a wrong, to cut off the girl from the family protection and inheritance only because she had chosen a man who was poor! Dorothea, early troubling her elders with questions about the facts around her, had wrought herself into some independent clearness as to the historical, political reasons why eldest sons had superior rights, and why land should be entailed: those reasons, impressing her with a certain awe, might be weightier than she knew, but here was a question of ties which left them uninfringed. Here was a daughter whose child— even according to the ordinary aping of aristocratic institutions by people who are no more aristocratic than retired grocers, and who have no more land to ‘keep together’ than a lawn and a paddock— would have a prior claim. Was inheritance a question of liking or of responsibility? All the energy of Dorothea’s nature went on the side of responsibility—the fulfilment of claims founded on our own deeds, such as marriage and parentage.
现在，自从她和威尔谈话以来，许多新鲜的景象都聚集在威尔的祖母朱莉娅阿姨周围。那个精致的微型模型的存在，就像她认识的一张活生生的脸，有助于集中她的感情。仅仅因为她选择了一个贫穷的男人，就剥夺了她的家庭保护和继承权，这是多么错误的事情啊！多萝西娅很早就对周围的事实提出了一些问题，让长辈们感到困扰，她对长子拥有优越权利以及土地为何应继承的历史和政治原因有一定的独立清晰性：这些原因给她留下了一定的印象。敬畏，可能比她想象的更重要，但这是一个使他们不受侵犯的纽带问题。这是一个女儿，她的孩子——即使按照那些并不比退休杂货商更贵族的人对贵族机构的普通模仿，而且他们没有比草坪和围场更多的土地来“维持”在一起——也会有优先权。继承是喜好问题还是责任问题？多萝西娅天性中的所有能量都集中在责任方面——履行基于我们自己行为的要求，例如婚姻和父母身份。

It was true, she said to herself, that Mr. Casaubon had a debt to the Ladislaws—that he had to pay back what the Ladislaws had been wronged of. And now she began to think of her husband’s will, which had been made at the time of their marriage, leaving the bulk of his property to her, with proviso in case of her having children. That ought to be altered; and no time ought to be lost. This very question which had just arisen about Will Ladislaw’s occupation, was the occasion for placing things on a new, right footing. Her husband, she felt sure, according to all his previous conduct, would be ready to take the just view, if she proposed it—she, in whose interest an unfair concentration of the property had been urged. His sense of right had surmounted and would continue to surmount anything that might be called antipathy. She suspected that her uncle’s scheme was disapproved by Mr. Casaubon, and this made it seem all the more opportune that a fresh understanding should be begun, so that instead of Will’s starting penniless and accepting the first function that offered itself, he should find himself in possession of a rightful income which should be paid by her husband during his life, and, by an immediate alteration of the will, should be secured at his death. The vision of all this as what ought to be done seemed to Dorothea like a sudden letting in of daylight, waking her from her previous stupidity and incurious self-absorbed ignorance about her husband’s relation to others. Will Ladislaw had refused Mr. Casaubon’s future aid on a ground that no longer appeared right to her; and Mr. Casaubon had never himself seen fully what was the claim upon him. ‘But he will!’ said Dorothea. ‘The great strength of his character lies here. And what are we doing with our money? We make no use of half of our income. My own money buys me nothing but an uneasy conscience.’
她对自己说，卡苏邦先生确实欠拉迪斯瓦夫一家人情，他必须偿还拉迪斯瓦夫一家所受的冤屈。现在她开始想到她丈夫在结婚时立下的遗嘱，将他的大部分财产留给她，但前提是她生孩子。这一点应该改变；不应该浪费时间。刚刚出现的关于威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫职业的这个问题，正是让事情重新站稳脚跟的契机。她确信，根据她丈夫以前的所有行为，如果她提出的话，他会准备采取公正的观点——为了她的利益，有人敦促她不公平地集中财产。他的正义感已经超越并将继续超越任何可能被称为反感的东西。她怀疑她叔叔的计划遭到了卡苏邦先生的反对，这使得开始一种新的理解似乎更加合适，这样威尔就不会一文不名地开始接受自己提供的第一个职能，而是应该发现自己拥有应由其丈夫生前支付的合法收入，并且通过立即改变遗嘱，应在他去世时得到保障。对多萝西娅来说，所有这一切都是应该做的事情，就像突然的阳光照进来一样，把她从以前的愚蠢和对丈夫与他人关系的冷漠自私的无知中唤醒。威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫拒绝了卡苏邦先生未来的援助，理由在她看来不再合适。卡苏邦先生自己从来没有完全了解过他的要求是什么。 “但他会的！”多萝西娅说。 ‘他性格的伟大力量就在这里。我们用我们的钱做什么？ 我们一半的收入都没有使用。我自己的钱除了给我带来不安的良心之外什么也买不到。’

There was a peculiar fascination for Dorothea in this division of property intended for herself, and always regarded by her as excessive. She was blind, you see, to many things obvious to others— likely to tread in the wrong places, as Celia had warned her; yet her blindness to whatever did not lie in her own pure purpose carried her safely by the side of precipices where vision would have been perilous with fear.
多萝西娅对这种为她自己分配财产有一种特殊的迷恋，她总是认为这种分配太过分了。你看，她对许多对其他人来说显而易见的事情视而不见——可能会踏入错误的地方，正如西莉亚警告她的那样；然而，她对一切不属于她纯粹目的的事物的盲目性使她安全地走到了悬崖边，在那里，视力会因为恐惧而变得危险。

The thoughts which had gathered vividness in the solitude of her boudoir occupied her incessantly through the day on which Mr. Casaubon had sent his letter to Will. Everything seemed hindrance to her till she could find an opportunity of opening her heart to her husband. To his preoccupied mind all subjects were to be approached gently, and she had never since his illness lost from her consciousness the dread of agitating him. Bat when young ardor is set brooding over the conception of a prompt deed, the deed itself seems to start forth with independent life, mastering ideal obstacles. The day passed in a sombre fashion, not unusual, though Mr. Casaubon was perhaps unusually silent; but there were hours of the night which might be counted on as opportunities of conversation; for Dorothea, when aware of her husband’s sleeplessness, had established a habit of rising, lighting a candle, and reading him to sleep again. And this night she was from the beginning sleepless, excited by resolves. He slept as usual for a few hours, but she had risen softly and had sat in the darkness for nearly an hour before he said—
在卡苏朋先生给威尔寄信的那天，她一直在思考那些在她孤独的闺房里变得清晰起来的想法。一切对她来说似乎都是障碍，直到她找到机会向丈夫敞开心扉。对于他全神贯注的头脑来说，所有的话题都应该温和地对待，自从他生病以来，她就一直担心激怒他。当年轻人热衷于思考立即行动的构想时，行动本身似乎就从独立的生活开始，克服了理想的障碍。这一天过得很阴沉，这并不罕见，尽管卡苏邦先生也许异常沉默。但晚上也有几个小时可以当作交谈的机会。因为多萝西娅在意识到丈夫失眠后，就养成了起身点燃蜡烛，读着故事哄他入睡的习惯。这一夜，她从一开始就失眠了，因为决心而兴奋。他像往常一样睡了几个小时，但她却轻轻地起身，在黑暗中坐了近一个小时，他才说道——

‘Dorothea, since you are up, will you light a candle?’
“多萝西娅，既然你起床了，可以点一支蜡烛吗？”

‘Do you feel ill, dear?’ was her first question, as she obeyed him.
“亲爱的，你感觉不舒服吗？”这是她服从他的第一个问题。

‘No, not at all; but I shall be obliged, since you are up, if you will read me a few pages of Lowth.’
'一点都不;但既然你已经起床了，如果你能给我读几页劳斯的书，我将不胜感激。

‘May I talk to you a little instead?’ said Dorothea.
“我可以和你谈谈吗？”多萝西娅说。

‘Certainly.’
'当然。'

‘I have been thinking about money all day—that I have always had too much, and especially the prospect of too much.’
“我一整天都在想着钱——我总是拥有太多，尤其是拥有太多的前景。”

‘These, my dear Dorothea, are providential arrangements.’
“我亲爱的多萝西娅，这些都是天意的安排。”

‘But if one has too much in consequence of others being wronged, it seems to me that the divine voice which tells us to set that wrong right must be obeyed.’
“但如果一个人因他人受到冤屈而承受太多，在我看来，神圣的声音告诉我们必须纠正错误。”

‘What, my love, is the bearing of your remark?’
“亲爱的，你这句话的含义是什么？”

‘That you have been too liberal in arrangements for me—I mean, with regard to property; and that makes me unhappy.’
“你对我的安排太宽松了——我是说，在财产方面；这让我不高兴。

‘How so? I have none but comparatively distant connections.’
'为何如此？我除了比较疏远的联系之外没有别的联系。

‘I have been led to think about your aunt Julia, and how she was left in poverty only because she married a poor man, an act which was not disgraceful, since he was not unworthy. It was on that ground, I know, that you educated Mr. Ladislaw and provided for his mother.’
“我不禁想起了你的朱莉娅姨妈，以及她是如何陷入贫困的，只是因为她嫁给了一个穷人，这种行为并不丢脸，因为他并不是不配。我知道，正是基于这个原因，您教育了拉迪斯瓦夫先生并供养了他的母亲。

Dorothea waited a few moments for some answer that would help her onward. None came, and her next words seemed the more forcible to her, falling clear upon the dark silence.
多萝西娅等了一会儿，等待一些能帮助她继续前进的答案。没有人来，她接下来的话似乎更加有力，在黑暗的寂静中清晰可见。

‘But surely we should regard his claim as a much greater one, even to the half of that property which I know that you have destined for me. And I think he ought at once to be provided for on that understanding. It is not right that he should be in the dependence of poverty while we are rich. And if there is any objection to the proposal he mentioned, the giving him his true place and his true share would set aside any motive for his accepting it.’
“但我们当然应该认为他的要求更大，甚至包括我知道你为我指定的财产的一半。”我认为基于这种理解，他应该立即得到照顾。当我们富有时，他却依赖贫穷，这是不对的。如果有人反对他提到的提议，那么给予他真正的地位和真正的份额将消除他接受该提议的任何动机。

‘Mr. Ladislaw has probably been speaking to you on this subject?’ said Mr. Casaubon, with a certain biting quickness not habitual to him.
'先生。 “拉迪斯瓦夫可能一直在和你谈论这个话题吗？”卡苏邦先生说道，语气中带着一种他不习惯的急切语气。

‘Indeed, no!’ said Dorothea, earnestly. ‘How can you imagine it, since he has so lately declined everything from you? I fear you think too hardly of him, dear. He only told me a little about his parents and grandparents, and almost all in answer to my questions. You are so good, so just—you have done everything you thought to be right. But it seems to me clear that more than that is right; and I must speak about it, since I am the person who would get what is called benefit by that ‘more’ not being done.’
“确实，不！”多萝西娅认真地说。 “你怎么能想象呢，因为他最近拒绝了你的一切？我担心你太不重视他了，亲爱的。他只告诉了我一些关于他父母和祖父母的事情，而且几乎全部都是为了回答我的问题。你是那么的善良，那么的正义——你已经做了你认为正确的一切。但在我看来，显然不止如此才是正确的。我必须谈论它，因为我是那个通过“更多”不做而获得所谓好处的人。

There was a perceptible pause before Mr. Casaubon replied, not quickly as before, but with a still more biting emphasis.
卡苏邦先生回答之前有明显的停顿，不像以前那么快，但语气更加尖锐。

‘Dorothea, my love, this is not the first occasion, but it were well that it should be the last, on which you have assumed a judgment on subjects beyond your scope. Into the question how far conduct, especially in the matter of alliances, constitutes a forfeiture of family claims, I do not now enter. Suffice it, that you are not here qualified to discriminate. What I now wish you to understand is, that I accept no revision, still less dictation within that range of affairs which I have deliberated upon as distinctly and properly mine. It is not for you to interfere between me and Mr. Ladislaw, and still less to encourage communications from him to you which constitute a criticism on my procedure.’
“多萝西娅，我的爱人，这不是第一次，但最好是最后一次，因为你对超出你能力范围的事情做出了判断。至于行为，特别是在联盟问题上，在多大程度上构成了对家庭债权的丧失，我现在不参与讨论。够了，你没有资格在这里歧视。我现在希望你明白的是，在我已经审议过的明确且正确的事务范围内，我不接受任何修改，更不接受任何命令。你不应该干涉我和拉迪斯瓦夫先生之间的事情，更不应该鼓励他与你进行交流，这构成了对我的程序的批评。

Poor Dorothea, shrouded in the darkness, was in a tumult of conflicting emotions. Alarm at the possible effect on himself of her husband’s strongly manifested anger, would have checked any expression of her own resentment, even if she had been quite free from doubt and compunction under the consciousness that there might be some justice in his last insinuation. Hearing him breathe quickly after he had spoken, she sat listening, frightened, wretched—with a dumb inward cry for help to bear this nightmare of a life in which every energy was arrested by dread. But nothing else happened, except that they both remained a long while sleepless, without speaking again.
可怜的多萝西娅笼罩在黑暗之中，内心充满矛盾的情绪。即使她意识到丈夫最后的含沙射影可能有一定的道理，也没有任何怀疑和内疚，但她对丈夫强烈表现出的愤怒可能对自己产生的影响感到震惊，会阻止自己表达任何怨恨。听到他说话后急促的呼吸声，她坐在那里听着，感到害怕、可怜——内心无声地呼喊着求救，以承受这场噩梦般的生活，在这种生活中，所有的能量都被恐惧所束缚。但没有发生任何事情，只是两人都久久没有睡，没有再说话。

The next day, Mr. Casaubon received the following answer from Will Ladislaw:—
第二天，卡苏邦先生收到了威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的以下答复：——

‘DEAR MR. CASAUBON,—I have given all due consideration to your letter of yesterday, but I am unable to take precisely your view of our mutual position. With the fullest acknowledgment of your generous conduct to me in the past, I must still maintain that an obligation of this kind cannot fairly fetter me as you appear to expect that it should. Granted that a benefactor’s wishes may constitute a claim; there must always be a reservation as to the quality of those wishes. They may possibly clash with more imperative considerations. Or a benefactor’s veto might impose such a negation on a man’s life that the consequent blank might be more cruel than the benefaction was generous. I am merely using strong illustrations. In the present case I am unable to take your view of the bearing which my acceptance of occupation—not enriching certainly, but not dishonorable— will have on your own position which seems to me too substantial to be affected in that shadowy manner. And though I do not believe that any change in our relations will occur (certainly none has yet occurred) which can nullify the obligations imposed on me by the past, pardon me for not seeing that those obligations should restrain me from using the ordinary freedom of living where I choose, and maintaining myself by any lawful occupation I may choose. Regretting that there exists this difference between us as to a relation in which the conferring of benefits has been entirely on your side—
'尊敬的先生。卡索邦：我已经充分考虑了你昨天的来信，但我无法准确理解你对我们共同立场的看法。尽管您过去对我的慷慨行为表示最充分的感谢，但我仍然必须坚持认为，这种义务不能像您所期望的那样完全束缚我。假设捐助人的意愿可能构成索赔；对于这些愿望的质量必须始终有所保留。它们可能会与更迫切的考虑发生冲突。或者，捐助者的否决可能会对一个人的生活造成如此大的否定，以至于随之而来的空白可能比慷慨的捐助更为残酷。我只是使用了强有力的插图。在目前的情况下，我无法接受你对我接受占领的看法——当然不会使你富有，但也不会丢脸——对你自己的地位产生的影响，在我看来，你的地位太重要了，不能以那种阴暗的方式受到影响。尽管我不相信我们的关系会发生任何改变（当然还没有发生），从而使过去强加给我的义务无效，但请原谅我没有看到这些义务应该限制我使用普通的自由。住在我选择的地方，并通过我可以选择的任何合法职业维持自己的生活。遗憾的是，我们之间存在这种关系，在这种关系中，利益的授予完全在你这边——

I remain, yours with persistent obligation,
我仍然是你的，带着持续的义务，

WILL LADISLAW.’
威尔·拉迪斯洛。

Poor Mr. Casaubon felt (and must not we, being impartial, feel with him a little?) that no man had juster cause for disgust and suspicion than he. Young Ladislaw, he was sure, meant to defy and annoy him, meant to win Dorothea’s confidence and sow her mind with disrespect, and perhaps aversion, towards her husband. Some motive beneath the surface had been needed to account for Will’s sudden change of in rejecting Mr. Casaubon’s aid and quitting his travels; and this defiant determination to fix himself in the neighborhood by taking up something so much at variance with his former choice as Mr. Brooke’s Middlemarch projects, revealed clearly enough that the undeclared motive had relation to Dorothea. Not for one moment did Mr. Casaubon suspect Dorothea of any doubleness: he had no suspicions of her, but he had (what was little less uncomfortable) the positive knowledge that her tendency to form opinions about her husband’s conduct was accompanied with a disposition to regard Will Ladislaw favorably and be influenced by what he said. His own proud reticence had prevented him from ever being undeceived in the supposition that Dorothea had originally asked her uncle to invite Will to his house.
可怜的卡苏邦先生感到（我们不应该公正地对他有一点同情吗？）没有人比他更有理由感到厌恶和怀疑。他确信，年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫是为了反抗和惹恼他，是为了赢得多萝西娅的信任，并在她心里播下对丈夫的不尊重，或许还有厌恶的种子。威尔突然改变拒绝卡苏邦先生的援助并放弃旅行，背后隐藏着某种动机。布鲁克先生的米德尔马契项目等与他以前的选择大相径庭的事情，这种挑衅的决心，让自己在邻居中安顿下来，这足以清楚地表明，未公开的动机与多萝西娅有关。卡苏邦先生一刻也没有怀疑多萝西娅有任何双重性：他对她没有任何怀疑，但他确实知道（这更不舒服）她对丈夫的行为形成看法的倾向伴随着一种倾向对威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫抱有好感，并受到他所说的话的影响。他自己骄傲的沉默寡言使他永远不会相信多萝西娅最初要求她叔叔邀请威尔到他家去。

And now, on receiving Will’s letter, Mr. Casaubon had to consider his duty. He would never have been easy to call his action anything else than duty; but in this case, contending motives thrust him back into negations.
现在，收到威尔的信后，卡苏邦先生不得不考虑自己的职责。他绝不会轻易将自己的行为称为义务以外的任何其他东西。但在这件事上，相互矛盾的动机又把他推回了否定的境地。

Should he apply directly to Mr. Brooke, and demand of that troublesome gentleman to revoke his proposal? Or should he consult Sir James Chettam, and get him to concur in remonstrance against a step which touched the whole family? In either case Mr. Casaubon was aware that failure was just as probable as success. It was impossible for him to mention Dorothea’s name in the matter, and without some alarming urgency Mr. Brooke was as likely as not, after meeting all representations with apparent assent, to wind up by saying, ‘Never fear, Casaubon! Depend upon it, young Ladislaw will do you credit. Depend upon it, I have put my finger on the right thing.’ And Mr. Casaubon shrank nervously from communicating on the subject with Sir James Chettam, between whom and himself there had never been any cordiality, and who would immediately think of Dorothea without any mention of her.
他是否应该直接向布鲁克先生提出申请，并要求那位麻烦先生撤销他的提议？或者他应该咨询詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士，并让他同意对涉及整个家庭的步骤提出抗议？无论哪种情况，卡苏邦先生都知道失败和成功的可能性一样。他不可能在这件事上提及多萝西娅的名字，而且如果没有一些令人担忧的紧迫感，布鲁克先生很可能在会见所有代表并获得明显同意后最后说：“别害怕，卡苏邦！”相信吧，年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫会给你带来荣誉。卡苏邦先生紧张地不敢与詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士谈论这个话题，他和他本人之间从来没有任何亲切感，如果没有的话，他会立即想到多萝西娅。任何提到她的事情。

Poor Mr. Casaubon was distrustful of everybody’s feeling towards him, especially as a husband. To let any one suppose that he was jealous would be to admit their (suspected) view of his disadvantages: to let them know that he did not find marriage particularly blissful would imply his conversion to their (probably) earlier disapproval. It would be as bad as letting Carp, and Brasenose generally, know how backward he was in organizing the matter for his ‘Key to all Mythologies.’ All through his life Mr. Casaubon had been trying not to admit even to himself the inward sores of self-doubt and jealousy. And on the most delicate of all personal subjects, the habit of proud suspicious reticence told doubly.
可怜的卡苏邦先生不信任每个人对他的感觉，尤其是作为一个丈夫。让任何人认为他嫉妒，就等于承认他们（怀疑的）对他缺点的看法：让他们知道他并不觉得婚姻特别幸福，就意味着他转变了他们（可能）早些时候的反对态度。这就像让卡普和布雷齐诺斯知道他在组织他的“所有神话的钥匙”方面有多么落后一样糟糕。卡苏邦先生一生都在努力不承认内心的疮痍。自我怀疑和嫉妒。在所有个人话题中最微妙的问题上，骄傲而怀疑的沉默习惯具有双重意义。

Thus Mr. Casaubon remained proudly, bitterly silent. But he had forbidden Will to come to Lowick Manor, and he was mentally preparing other measures of frustration.
因此，卡苏邦先生仍然骄傲地、苦涩地保持沉默。但他禁止威尔来洛威克庄园，他也在心里准备其他的挫败措施。

CHAPTER XXXVIII
第三十八章

‘C’est beaucoup que le jugement des hommes sur les actions humaines; tot ou tard il devient efficace.’—GUIZOT.
这就是人类对人类行动的判断；总体效果非常差。”——基佐。

Sir James Chettam could not look with any satisfaction on Mr. Brooke’s new courses; but it was easier to object than to hinder. Sir James accounted for his having come in alone one day to lunch with the Cadwalladers by saying—
詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士对布鲁克先生的新课程并不满意。但反对比阻碍更容易。詹姆斯爵士解释说，有一天他独自一人来与卡德瓦拉德一家共进午餐，他说：

‘I can’t talk to you as I want, before Celia: it might hurt her. Indeed, it would not be right.’
“在西莉亚之前，我不能随心所欲地和你说话：这可能会伤害她。事实上，这是不对的。

‘I know what you mean—the ‘Pioneer’ at the Grange!’ darted in Mrs. Cadwallader, almost before the last word was off her friend’s tongue. ‘It is frightful—this taking to buying whistles and blowing them in everybody’s hearing. Lying in bed all day and playing at dominoes, like poor Lord Plessy, would be more private and bearable.’
“我明白你的意思——田庄的‘先锋’！”卡德沃拉德夫人几乎在她朋友的最后一个字脱口而出之前突然说道。 “这太可怕了——这种购买口哨并在每个人都能听到的情况下吹响口哨的行为。整天躺在床上玩多米诺骨牌，就像可怜的普莱西勋爵那样，会更私密、更容易忍受。

‘I see they are beginning to attack our friend Brooke in the ‘Trumpet,’’ said the Rector, lounging back and smiling easily, as he would have done if he had been attacked himself. ‘There are tremendous sarcasms against a landlord not a hundred miles from Middlemarch, who receives his own rents, and makes no returns.’
“我看到他们开始攻击我们在‘小号’里的朋友布鲁克，”教区长靠在椅背上轻松地微笑着说道，如果他自己遭到攻击，他也会这么做。 “距离米德尔马奇不到一百英里的地主受到了极大的讽刺，他自己收取租金，却没有回报。”

‘I do wish Brooke would leave that off,’ said Sir James, with his little frown of annoyance.
“我真希望布鲁克不要再这样了，”詹姆斯爵士说道，他的眉头有点恼怒。

‘Is he really going to be put in nomination, though?’ said Mr. Cadwallader. ‘I saw Farebrother yesterday— he’s Whiggish himself, hoists Brougham and Useful Knowledge; that’s the worst I know of him;—and he says that Brooke is getting up a pretty strong party. Bulstrode, the banker, is his foremost man. But he thinks Brooke would come off badly at a nomination.’
“不过，他真的会获得提名吗？”卡德沃拉德先生说。 “我昨天见到了费雷布拉泽——他本人就是辉格党人，高举《布鲁厄姆》和《有用的知识》；这是我对他最糟糕的认识；——他说布鲁克正在组建一个相当强大的派对。银行家布尔斯特罗德是他最重要的人。但他认为布鲁克在提名中表现不佳。

‘Exactly,’ said Sir James, with earnestness. ‘I have been inquiring into the thing, for I’ve never known anything about Middlemarch politics before—the county being my business. What Brooke trusts to, is that they are going to turn out Oliver because he is a Peelite. But Hawley tells me that if they send up a Whig at all it is sure to be Bagster, one of those candidates who come from heaven knows where, but dead against Ministers, and an experienced Parliamentary man. Hawley’s rather rough: he forgot that he was speaking to me. He said if Brooke wanted a pelting, he could get it cheaper than by going to the hustings.’
“完全正确，”詹姆斯爵士认真地说。 “我一直在调查这件事，因为我以前对米德尔马契的政治一无所知——这个县是我的事。布鲁克相信，他们会淘汰奥利弗，因为他是皮尔派。但霍利告诉我，如果他们派出一名辉格党人，那肯定是巴格斯特，他是一位来自天知道从哪里来的候选人，但却坚决反对部长们，也是一位经验丰富的议会人士。霍利相当粗鲁：他忘记了他是在跟我说话。他说，如果布鲁克想要投掷，他可以比去竞选更便宜。

‘I warned you all of it,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, waving her hands outward. ‘I said to Humphrey long ago, Mr. Brooke is going to make a splash in the mud. And now he has done it.’
“我已经警告过你们这一切了，”卡德瓦拉德夫人一边说，一边向外挥舞着双手。 “我很久以前就对汉弗莱说过，布鲁克先生会在泥巴里溅起水花。”现在他做到了。”

‘Well, he might have taken it into his head to marry,’ said the Rector. ‘That would have been a graver mess than a little flirtation with politics.’
“嗯，他可能已经考虑结婚了，”校长说。 “那会比政治上的一点调情更严重。”

‘He may do that afterwards,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader—‘when he has come out on the other side of the mud with an ague.’
“他可能会在事后这样做，”卡德瓦拉德夫人说，“当他患上疟疾从泥浆的另一边出来时。”

‘What I care for most is his own dignity,’ said Sir James. ‘Of course I care the more because of the family. But he’s getting on in life now, and I don’t like to think of his exposing himself. They will be raking up everything against him.’
“我最关心的是他自己的尊严，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “当然，因为家庭，我更关心。但他现在的生活已经越来越好了，我不喜欢想到他暴露自己。他们会竭尽全力反对他。

‘I suppose it’s no use trying any persuasion,’ said the Rector. ‘There’s such an odd mixture of obstinacy and changeableness in Brooke. Have you tried him on the subject?’
“我认为尝试任何劝说都是没有用的，”校长说。 “布鲁克身上有一种奇怪的固执与多变的混合体。你在这个问题上尝试过他吗？

‘Well, no,’ said Sir James; ‘I feel a delicacy in appearing to dictate. But I have been talking to this young Ladislaw that Brooke is making a factotum of. Ladislaw seems clever enough for anything. I thought it as well to hear what he had to say; and he is against Brooke’s standing this time. I think he’ll turn him round: I think the nomination may be staved off.’
“嗯，不，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “我觉得似乎在发号施令是一种微妙的感觉。但我一直在和布鲁克当杂役的年轻拉迪斯瓦夫交谈过。拉迪斯瓦夫似乎对任何事都很聪明。我想听听他要说的话也不错。这次他反对布鲁克的立场。我认为他会扭转局面：我认为提名可能会被推迟。

‘I know,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, nodding. ‘The independent member hasn’t got his speeches well enough by heart.’
“我知道，”卡德沃拉德夫人点点头说。 “这位独立议员没有把他的演讲背得足够好。”

‘But this Ladislaw—there again is a vexatious business,’ said Sir James. ‘We have had him two or three times to dine at the Hall (you have met him, by the bye) as Brooke’s guest and a relation of Casaubon’s, thinking he was only on a flying visit. And now I find he’s in everybody’s mouth in Middlemarch as the editor of the ‘Pioneer.’ There are stories going about him as a quill-driving alien, a foreign emissary, and what not.’
“但是这个拉迪斯瓦夫——又是一件令人烦恼的事情，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “我们曾两次或三次邀请他在大厅吃饭（顺便说一句，你见过他），作为布鲁克的客人和卡索邦的亲戚，以为他只是来一次飞行访问。现在我发现他在米德尔马奇的每个人嘴里都是《先锋报》的编辑。有一些关于他的故事，说他是一个拿着羽毛笔的外星人，一个外国使者，等等。

‘Casaubon won’t like that,’ said the Rector.
“卡索邦不会喜欢这样的，”校长说。

‘There IS some foreign blood in Ladislaw,’ returned Sir James. ‘I hope he won’t go into extreme opinions and carry Brooke on.’
“拉迪斯瓦夫有一些外国血统，”詹姆斯爵士回答道。 “我希望他不要发表极端观点并继续支持布鲁克。”

‘Oh, he’s a dangerous young sprig, that Mr. Ladislaw,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, ‘with his opera songs and his ready tongue. A sort of Byronic hero—an amorous conspirator, it strikes me. And Thomas Aquinas is not fond of him. I could see that, the day the picture was brought.’
“噢，拉迪斯洛先生，”卡德沃拉德夫人说，“他是个危险的小苗子，他会唱歌剧，而且舌头灵活。”有点像拜伦式的英雄——一个多情的阴谋家，这让我印象深刻。托马斯·阿奎那也不喜欢他。在照片被带来的那天我就看到了。

‘I don’t like to begin on the subject with Casaubon,’ said Sir James. ‘He has more right to interfere than I. But it’s a disagreeable affair all round. What a character for anybody with decent connections to show himself in!—one of those newspaper fellows! You have only to look at Keck, who manages the ‘Trumpet.’ I saw him the other day with Hawley. His writing is sound enough, I believe, but he’s such a low fellow, that I wished he had been on the wrong side.’
“我不喜欢从卡索邦开始谈论这个话题，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “他比我更有权利干涉。但总的来说，这是一件令人不快的事情。”对于任何有良好关系的人来说，这是多么好的性格啊！——那些报社的人！你只要看看管理“小号”的凯克就可以了。前几天我看到他和霍利在一起。我相信他的文笔足够好，但他是一个如此卑鄙的人，我希望他站在错误的一边。

‘What can you expect with these peddling Middlemarch papers?’ said the Rector. ‘I don’t suppose you could get a high style of man anywhere to be writing up interests he doesn’t really care about, and for pay that hardly keeps him in at elbows.’
“这些兜售的米德尔马契报纸你能指望什么？”校长说。 “我不认为你能在任何地方找到一个高风格的人来写他并不真正关心的兴趣，而报酬却很难让他陷入困境。”

‘Exactly: that makes it so annoying that Brooke should have put a man who has a sort of connection with the family in a position of that kind. For my part, I think Ladislaw is rather a fool for accepting.’
“确实如此：这让人非常恼火，布鲁克应该把一个与家庭有某种联系的男人放在这样的位置上。就我而言，我认为拉迪斯瓦夫接受这个决定是相当愚蠢的。

‘It is Aquinas’s fault,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘Why didn’t he use his interest to get Ladislaw made an attache or sent to India? That is how families get rid of troublesome sprigs.’
“这是阿奎那的错，”卡德瓦拉德夫人说。 “他为什么不利用自己的利益让拉迪斯瓦夫成为随员或派往印度？这就是家庭摆脱麻烦的小树枝的方法。

‘There is no knowing to what lengths the mischief may go,’ said Sir James, anxiously. ‘But if Casaubon says nothing, what can I do?’
“不知道恶作剧会持续到什么程度，”詹姆斯爵士焦急地说。 “但如果卡苏朋什么也不说，我能做什么呢？”

‘Oh my dear Sir James,’ said the Rector, ‘don’t let us make too much of all this. It is likely enough to end in mere smoke. After a month or two Brooke and this Master Ladislaw will get tired of each other; Ladislaw will take wing; Brooke will sell the ‘Pioneer,’ and everything will settle down again as usual.’
“噢，亲爱的詹姆斯爵士，”校长说，“别让我们对这一切看得太多。它很可能最终化为乌有。一两个月后，布鲁克和这位拉迪斯瓦大师就会厌倦彼此；拉迪斯瓦夫将展翅飞翔；布鲁克将出售‘先锋’，一切都会恢复如常。”

‘There is one good chance—that he will not like to feel his money oozing away,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘If I knew the items of election expenses I could scare him. It’s no use plying him with wide words like Expenditure: I wouldn’t talk of phlebotomy, I would empty a pot of leeches upon him. What we good stingy people don’t like, is having our sixpences sucked away from us.’
“有一个很好的机会——他不会喜欢自己的钱被流失，”卡德沃拉德夫人说。 “如果我知道选举费用的项目，我可能会吓到他。跟他说“支出”这样宽泛的词是没有用的：我不会谈论放血，我会把一罐水蛭倒在他身上。我们这些吝啬的好人不喜欢的是我们的六便士被从我们身边夺走。

‘And he will not like having things raked up against him,’ said Sir James. ‘There is the management of his estate. they have begun upon that already. And it really is painful for me to see. It is a nuisance under one’s very nose. I do think one is bound to do the best for one’s land and tenants, especially in these hard times.’
“他不喜欢别人对他进行攻击，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “这是他的财产的管理。他们已经开始这样做了。看到这对我来说真的很痛苦。这是眼皮子底下的一件麻烦事。我确实认为一个人必须为自己的土地和租户做到最好，尤其是在这些困难时期。

‘Perhaps the ‘Trumpet’ may rouse him to make a change, and some good may come of it all,’ said the Rector. ‘I know I should be glad. I should hear less grumbling when my tithe is paid. I don’t know what I should do if there were not a modus in Tipton.’
“也许‘号角’可能会激励他做出改变，而这一切可能会带来一些好处，”校长说。 ‘我知道我应该感到高兴。当我缴纳什一税时，我应该听到更少的抱怨。如果蒂普顿没有办法，我不知道该怎么办。

‘I want him to have a proper man to look after things—I want him to take on Garth again,’ said Sir James. ‘He got rid of Garth twelve years ago, and everything has been going wrong since. I think of getting Garth to manage for me—he has made such a capital plan for my buildings; and Lovegood is hardly up to the mark. But Garth would not undertake the Tipton estate again unless Brooke left it entirely to him.’
“我希望他有一个合适的人来照顾事情——我希望他能再次与加斯较量，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “他十二年前摆脱了加斯，从那以后一切都出了问题。我考虑让加斯来为我管理——他为我的建筑制定了这样的资本计划；洛夫古德很难达到标准。但加斯不会再继承蒂普顿的遗产，除非布鲁克把它完全留给他。

‘In the right of it too,’ said the Rector. ‘Garth is an independent fellow: an original, simple-minded fellow. One day, when he was doing some valuation for me, he told me point-blank that clergymen seldom understood anything about business, and did mischief when they meddled; but he said it as quietly and respectfully as if he had been talking to me about sailors. He would make a different parish of Tipton, if Brooke would let him manage. I wish, by the help of the ‘Trumpet,’ you could bring that round.’
“也在它的右边，”校长说。 “加斯是一个独立的人：一个有创意、头脑简单的人。有一天，他在给我做估价时，直截了当地告诉我，牧师很少懂生意，一插手就会胡作非为。但他说这话的时候语气平静而恭敬，就好像他在和我谈论水手一样。如果布鲁克让他管理的话，他将使蒂普顿教区变得不同。我希望，在‘号角’的帮助下，你能实现这一目标。”

‘If Dorothea had kept near her uncle, there would have been some chance,’ said Sir James. ‘She might have got some power over him in time, and she was always uneasy about the estate. She had wonderfully good notions about such things. But now Casaubon takes her up entirely. Celia complains a good deal. We can hardly get her to dine with us, since he had that fit.’ Sir James ended with a look of pitying disgust, and Mrs. Cadwallader shrugged her shoulders as much as to say that SHE was not likely to see anything new in that direction.
“如果多萝西娅一直待在她叔叔身边，会有一些机会，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “她可能及时掌握了对他的一些权力，但她总是对遗产感到不安。她对这些事情有非常好的想法。但现在卡索邦完全占据了她的位置。西莉亚抱怨很多。 “我们很难让她和我们一起吃饭，因为他病得很厉害。”詹姆斯爵士以一种怜悯和厌恶的表情结束了谈话，卡德沃拉德夫人耸了耸肩，似乎在说她不太可能在这件事上看到任何新的东西。方向。

‘Poor Casaubon!’ the Rector said. ‘That was a nasty attack. I thought he looked shattered the other day at the Archdeacon’s.’
“可怜的卡苏邦！”校长说。 “那是一次令人厌恶的袭击。我觉得那天他在副主教家里看起来很崩溃。

‘In point of fact,’ resumed Sir James, not choosing to dwell on ‘fits,’ ‘Brooke doesn’t mean badly by his tenants or any one else, but he has got that way of paring and clipping at expenses.’
“事实上，”詹姆斯爵士继续说道，并没有选择纠缠“发作”，“布鲁克对他的房客或任何其他人并没有恶意，但他有这种削减开支的方式。”

‘Come, that’s a blessing,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘That helps him to find himself in a morning. He may not know his own opinions, but he does know his own pocket.’
“得了吧，这是一件幸事，”卡德瓦拉德夫人说。 “这有助于他在早上找到自己。他可能不知道自己的意见，但他确实了解自己的口袋。

‘I don’t believe a man is in pocket by stinginess on his land,’ said Sir James.
“我不相信一个人会因为对自己的土地吝啬而中饱私囊，”詹姆斯爵士说。

‘Oh, stinginess may be abused like other virtues: it will not do to keep one’s own pigs lean,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, who had risen to look out of the window. ‘But talk of an independent politician and he will appear.’
“哦，吝啬可能会像其他美德一样被滥用：让自己的猪保持瘦身是不行的，”卡德沃拉德夫人说，她站起来朝窗外看。 “但是谈到一位独立政治家，他就会出现。”

‘What! Brooke?’ said her husband.
'什么！布鲁克？”她丈夫说。

‘Yes. Now, you ply him with the ‘Trumpet,’ Humphrey; and I will put the leeches on him. What will you do, Sir James?’
'是的。现在，你用“小号”来劝说他，汉弗莱；我会把水蛭放在他身上。詹姆斯爵士，你会怎么做？

‘The fact is, I don’t like to begin about it with Brooke, in our mutual position; the whole thing is so unpleasant. I do wish people would behave like gentlemen,’ said the good baronet, feeling that this was a simple and comprehensive programme for social well-being.
“事实是，我不喜欢从布鲁克开始，以我们共同的立场；整件事真是令人不愉快。我确实希望人们表现得像个绅士。”善良的从男爵说，他觉得这是一个简单而全面的社会福祉计划。

‘Here you all are, eh?’ said Mr. Brooke, shuffling round and shaking hands. ‘I was going up to the Hall by-and-by, Chettam. But it’s pleasant to find everybody, you know. Well, what do you think of things?—going on a little fast! It was true enough, what Lafitte said—‘Since yesterday, a century has passed away:’— they’re in the next century, you know, on the other side of the water. Going on faster than we are.’
“你们都在这儿，嗯？”布鲁克先生说，一边拖着脚步一边握手。 “我正要上大厅去，切塔姆。但你知道，很高兴见到大家。嗯，你觉得怎么样？——进展有点快！拉菲特所说的确实如此——“从昨天开始，一个世纪已经过去了：”——他们已经在下一个世纪了，你知道，在水的另一边。进展得比我们快。”

‘Why, yes,’ said the Rector, taking up the newspaper. ‘Here is the ‘Trumpet’ accusing you of lagging behind—did you see?’
“啊，是的，”校长拿起报纸说道。 “这是指责你们落后的‘喇叭’——你们看到了吗？”

‘Eh? no,’ said Mr. Brooke, dropping his gloves into his hat and hastily adjusting his eye-glass. But Mr. Cadwallader kept the paper in his hand, saying, with a smile in his eyes—
‘呃？不，”布鲁克先生说，一边把手套放进帽子里，一边急忙调整镜片。但卡德沃拉德先生手里仍拿着那张纸，眼里含着微笑说道——

‘Look here! all this is about a landlord not a hundred miles from Middlemarch, who receives his own rents. They say he is the most retrogressive man in the county. I think you must have taught them that word in the ‘Pioneer.’’
'看这里！这一切都是关于一个距离米德尔马奇不到一百英里的房东，他自己收取租金。他们说他是全县最倒退的人。我想你一定是在《先锋》中教过他们这个词的。”

‘Oh, that is Keek—an illiterate fellow, you know. Retrogressive, now! Come, that’s capital. He thinks it means destructive: they want to make me out a destructive, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, with that cheerfulness which is usually sustained by an adversary’s ignorance.
“噢，那是基克——你知道，他是个文盲。”倒退了，现在！来吧，这就是资本。他认为这意味着破坏性的：他们想让我成为一个破坏性的人，你知道的，”布鲁克先生说道，他的兴高采烈通常是由于对手的无知而维持的。

‘I think he knows the meaning of the word. Here is a sharp stroke or two. If we had to describe a man who is retrogressive in the most evil sense of the word—we should say, he is one who would dub himself a reformer of our constitution, while every interest for which he is immediately responsible is going to decay: a philanthropist who cannot bear one rogue to be hanged, but does not mind five honest tenants being half-starved: a man who shrieks at corruption, and keeps his farms at rack-rent: who roars himself red at rotten boroughs, and does not mind if every field on his farms has a rotten gate: a man very open-hearted to Leeds and Manchester, no doubt; he would give any number of representatives who will pay for their seats out of their own pockets: what he objects to giving, is a little return on rent-days to help a tenant to buy stock, or an outlay on repairs to keep the weather out at a tenant’s barn-door or make his house look a little less like an Irish cottier’s. But we all know the wag’s definition of a philanthropist: a man whose charity increases directly as the square of the distance. And so on. All the rest is to show what sort of legislator a philanthropist is likely to make,’ ended the Rector, throwing down the paper, and clasping his hands at the back of his head, while he looked at Mr. Brooke with an air of amused neutrality.
“我想他知道这个词的意思。这是一两笔尖锐的笔画。如果我们必须用最邪恶的意义上来描述一个倒退的人，我们应该说，他是一个自称为我们宪法改革者的人，而他直接负责的每一个利益都将走向衰落：一个慈善家，他不能忍受一个流氓被绞死，但不介意五个诚实的佃农挨饿：一个对腐败尖叫，并以机架租金维持农场的人：一个对腐败的行政区咆哮自己红色，并且不这样做的人。介意他农场的每块田地都有一个腐烂的大门：毫无疑问，他对利兹和曼彻斯特非常开放。他愿意给任意数量的代表，让他们自掏腰包购买席位：他反对给予的，是在租赁日的一点回报，以帮助租户购买股票，或用于维护天气的维修费用在租客的谷仓门口，或者让他的房子看起来不像爱尔兰小屋。但我们都知道爱开玩笑的人对慈善家的定义：他的慈善事业与距离的平方成正比。等等。剩下的一切都是为了表明慈善家可能会成为什么样的立法者。”校长扔下报纸，双手抱在脑后，用一种有趣的神情看着布鲁克先生。中立性。

‘Come, that’s rather good, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, taking up the paper and trying to bear the attack as easily as his neighbor did, but coloring and smiling rather nervously; ‘that about roaring himself red at rotten boroughs—I never made a speech about rotten boroughs in my life. And as to roaring myself red and that kind of thing— these men never understand what is good satire. Satire, you know, should be true up to a certain point. I recollect they said that in ‘The Edinburgh’ somewhere—it must be true up to a certain point.’
“来吧，你知道，那很好，”布鲁克先生说，他拿起报纸，试图像他的邻居一样轻松地承受攻击，但脸色涨红，微笑着，显得相当紧张。 “关于在腐败的行政区里把自己吼得通红——我一生中从未发表过关于腐败的行政区的演讲。至于把自己吼得通红之类的事——这些人永远不明白什么是好的讽刺。你知道，讽刺在某种程度上应该是真实的。我记得他们在‘爱丁堡’的某个地方说过——在某种程度上，这一定是真的。”

‘Well, that is really a hit about the gates,’ said Sir James, anxious to tread carefully. ‘Dagley complained to me the other day that he hadn’t got a decent gate on his farm. Garth has invented a new pattern of gate—I wish you would try it. One ought to use some of one’s timber in that way.’
“嗯，这确实是对大门的打击，”詹姆斯爵士说道，急于小心行事。 “达格利有一天向我抱怨说他的农场没有像样的大门。加斯发明了一种新的门图案——我希望你能尝试一下。人们应该以这种方式使用一些木材。”

‘You go in for fancy farming, you know, Chettam,’ said Mr. Brooke, appearing to glance over the columns of the ‘Trumpet.’ ‘That’s your hobby, and you don’t mind the expense.’
“切塔姆，你知道，你热衷于花哨的农业，”布鲁克先生说道，他的目光似乎扫过“小号”的专栏。“那是你的爱好，而且你不介意花钱。”

‘I thought the most expensive hobby in the world was standing for Parliament,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘They said the last unsuccessful candidate at Middlemarch—Giles, wasn’t his name?— spent ten thousand pounds and failed because he did not bribe enough. What a bitter reflection for a man!’
“我认为世界上最昂贵的爱好就是代表议会，”卡德瓦拉德夫人说。 “他们说米德尔马契最后一位失败的候选人——贾尔斯，不是他的名字吗？——花了一万英镑却失败了，因为他贿赂得不够。对于一个男人来说，这是多么痛苦的反思啊！

‘Somebody was saying,’ said the Rector, laughingly, ‘that East Retford was nothing to Middlemarch, for bribery.’
“有人说，”教区长笑着说，“东雷特福德对米德尔马契来说不算什么贿赂行为。”

‘Nothing of the kind,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘The Tories bribe, you know: Hawley and his set bribe with treating, hot codlings, and that sort of thing; and they bring the voters drunk to the poll. But they are not going to have it their own way in future— not in future, you know. Middlemarch is a little backward, I admit— the freemen are a little backward. But we shall educate them— we shall bring them on, you know. The best people there are on our side.’
“不是这样的，”布鲁克先生说。 “你知道，托利党行贿：霍利和他的一套行贿方式是用零食、热苹果皮之类的东西；他们把醉酒的选民带到投票站。但他们将来不会按自己的方式行事——你知道，将来不会。我承认，米德尔马契有点落后——自由民有点落后。但我们会教育他们——我们会让他们进步，你知道的。最优秀的人就在我们这边。

‘Hawley says you have men on your side who will do you harm,’ remarked Sir James. ‘He says Bulstrode the banker will do you harm.’
“霍利说，你身边有人会伤害你，”詹姆斯爵士说道。 “他说银行家布尔斯特罗德会伤害你。”

‘And that if you got pelted,’ interposed Mrs. Cadwallader, ‘half the rotten eggs would mean hatred of your committee-man. Good heavens! Think what it must be to be pelted for wrong opinions. And I seem to remember a story of a man they pretended to chair and let him fall into a dust-heap on purpose!’
“如果你被投掷，”卡德沃拉德夫人插话道，“一半的臭鸡蛋意味着对你的委员的仇恨。我的妈呀！想想如果因为错误的观点而受到攻击，那会是什么样子。我似乎记得一个故事，他们假装主持一个人，故意让他掉进垃圾堆！

‘Pelting is nothing to their finding holes in one’s coat,’ said the Rector. ‘I confess that’s what I should be afraid of, if we parsons had to stand at the hustings for preferment. I should be afraid of their reckoning up all my fishing days. Upon my word, I think the truth is the hardest missile one can be pelted with.’
“与他们在外套上寻找破洞相比，投掷皮毛根本算不了什么，”教区长说。 “我承认，如果我们牧师必须参加选举竞选，那我就应该担心这一点。我应该害怕他们计算我所有的钓鱼天数。说实话，我认为真相是最难投掷的导弹。

‘The fact is,’ said Sir James, ‘if a man goes into public life he must be prepared for the consequences. He must make himself proof against calumny.’
“事实是，”詹姆斯爵士说，“如果一个人进入公共生活，他必须为后果做好准备。他必须让自己免受诽谤。

‘My dear Chettam, that is all very fine, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘But how will you make yourself proof against calumny? You should read history—look at ostracism, persecution, martyrdom, and that kind of thing. They always happen to the best men, you know. But what is that in Horace?—‘fiat justitia, ruat … something or other.’
“我亲爱的切塔姆，你知道，这一切都很好，”布鲁克先生说。 “但是你怎样才能让自己免受诽谤呢？你应该读历史——看看排斥、迫害、殉难等等。你知道，这样的事总是发生在最好的男人身上。但贺拉斯的那句话是什么？——“fiat justitia，ruat……某事或那事。”

‘Exactly,’ said Sir James, with a little more heat than usual. ‘What I mean by being proof against calumny is being able to point to the fact as a contradiction.’
“完全正确，”詹姆斯爵士说道，语气比平时更加​​激动。 “我所说的防止诽谤的意思是能够指出事实是矛盾的。”

‘And it is not martyrdom to pay bills that one has run into one’s self,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader.
卡德沃拉德夫人说，“支付自己遇到的账单并不是殉难。”

But it was Sir James’s evident annoyance that most stirred Mr. Brooke. ‘Well, you know, Chettam,’ he said, rising, taking up his hat and leaning on his stick, ‘you and I have a different system. You are all for outlay with your farms. I don’t want to make out that my system is good under all circumstances—under all circumstances, you know.’
但最让布鲁克先生兴奋的是詹姆斯爵士明显的烦恼。 “好吧，你知道，切塔姆，”他站起来，拿起帽子，靠在手杖上，“你和我有不同的系统。你们都是为了农场的支出。我不想让我的系统在所有情况下都表现良好——在所有情况下，你知道。

‘There ought to be a new valuation made from time to time,’ said Sir James. ‘Returns are very well occasionally, but I like a fair valuation. What do you say, Cadwallader?’
“应该不时进行新的评估，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “偶尔回报会非常好，但我喜欢公平的估值。你说什么，卡德沃拉德？

‘I agree with you. If I were Brooke, I would choke the ‘Trumpet’ at once by getting Garth to make a new valuation of the farms, and giving him carte blanche about gates and repairs: that’s my view of the political situation,’ said the Rector, broadening himself by sticking his thumbs in his armholes, and laughing towards Mr. Brooke.
'我同意你的看法。如果我是布鲁克，我会立即让加思对农场进行新的估价，并在大门和维修方面给予他全权委托，从而立即扼杀“喇叭”：这就是我对政治局势的看法，”校长说，扩大范围他把拇指插在袖孔里，对着布鲁克先生大笑。

‘That’s a showy sort of thing to do, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘But I should like you to tell me of another landlord who has distressed his tenants for arrears as little as I have. I let the old tenants stay on. I’m uncommonly easy, let me tell you, uncommonly easy. I have my own ideas, and I take my stand on them, you know. A man who does that is always charged with eccentricity, inconsistency, and that kind of thing. When I change my line of action, I shall follow my own ideas.’
“你知道，这是一件很炫耀的事情，”布鲁克先生说。 “但我希望你能告诉我另一位房东，他像我一样因为欠款少而让他的房客感到苦恼。我让老房客留下来。我非常容易，让我告诉你，非常容易。我有自己的想法，并且我对这些想法持自己的立场，你知道。这样做的人总是会被指责为古怪、前后矛盾等。当我改变行动方针时，我会遵循自己的想法。

After that, Mr. Brooke remembered that there was a packet which he had omitted to send off from the Grange, and he bade everybody hurriedly good-by.
之后，布鲁克先生想起他忘记从田庄寄出一个包裹，便匆匆向大家告别。

‘I didn’t want to take a liberty with Brooke,’ said Sir James; ‘I see he is nettled. But as to what he says about old tenants, in point of fact no new tenant would take the farms on the present terms.’
“我不想对布鲁克随意，”詹姆斯爵士说。 ‘我看他很生气。但至于他对老租户的看法，事实上没有新租户会按照目前的条件接收农场。

‘I have a notion that he will be brought round in time,’ said the Rector. ‘But you were pulling one way, Elinor, and we were pulling another. You wanted to frighten him away from expense, and we want to frighten him into it. Better let him try to be popular and see that his character as a landlord stands in his way. I don’t think it signifies two straws about the ‘Pioneer,’ or Ladislaw, or Brooke’s speechifying to the Middlemarchers. But it does signify about the parishioners in Tipton being comfortable.’
“我有一个想法，他会及时被带过来，”校长说。 “但埃丽诺，你往一侧拉，而我们却往另一侧拉。你想吓唬他远离开支，而我们则想吓唬他。最好让他尝试受欢迎，并看到他作为地主的性格阻碍了他。我不认为这意味着关于“先​​锋”或拉迪斯瓦夫或布鲁克对米德尔马彻的演讲的两根稻草。但这确实表明蒂普顿的教区居民感到舒适。

‘Excuse me, it is you two who are on the wrong tack,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘You should have proved to him that he loses money by bad management, and then we should all have pulled together. If you put him a-horseback on politics, I warn you of the consequences. It was all very well to ride on sticks at home and call them ideas.’
“对不起，是你们两个走错了路，”卡德瓦拉德夫人说。 “你应该向他证明，他因管理不善而亏损，然后我们应该齐心协力。如果你让他在政治上落后，我警告你后果。在家里骑着棍子并称其为想法，这一切都很好。

CHAPTER XXXIX
第三十九章

‘If, as I have, you also doe,
‘如果你也像我一样，

Vertue attired in woman see,
女人所见的美德，

And dare love that, and say so too,
敢于爱这一点，也敢这么说，

And forget the He and She;
忘记他和她；

And if this love, though placed so,
如果这份爱，尽管如此，

From prophane men you hide,
你躲避世俗的人，

Which will no faith on this bestow,
对此没有任何信心，

Or, if they doe, deride:
或者，如果他们这样做了，嘲笑：

Then you have done a braver thing
那么你做了一件更勇敢的事

Than all the Worthies did,
比所有贤人所做的，

And a braver thence will spring,
更勇敢的人将会涌现，

Which is, to keep that hid.’ —DR. DONNE.
也就是说，要隐藏这一点。”——DR.多恩。

Sir James Chettam’s mind was not fruitful ill devices, but his growing anxiety to ‘act on Brooke,’ once brought close to his constant belief in Dorothea’s capacity for influence, became formative, and issued in a little plan; namely, to plead Celia’s indisposition as a reason for fetching Dorothea by herself to the Hall, and to leave her at the Grange with the carriage on the way, after making her fully aware of the situation concerning the management of the estate.
詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士的头脑并不是富有成效的恶意手段，但他对“对布鲁克采取行动”的日益增长的焦虑，一度接近他对多萝西娅影响力的坚定信念，变得成形，并发布了一个小计划；也就是说，以西莉亚身体不适为理由，让她充分了解庄园管理的情况后，独自将多萝西娅接到大厅，并把她留在田庄，马车还在路上。

In this way it happened that one day near four o’clock, when Mr. Brooke and Ladislaw were seated in the library, the door opened and Mrs. Casaubon was announced.
就这样，有一天下午四点左右，当布鲁克先生和拉迪斯洛坐在图书馆里时，门开了，卡苏邦夫人进来了。

Will, the moment before, had been low in the depths of boredom, and, obliged to help Mr. Brooke in arranging ‘documents’ about hanging sheep-stealers, was exemplifying the power our minds have of riding several horses at once by inwardly arranging measures towards getting a lodging for himself in Middlemarch and cutting short his constant residence at the Grange; while there flitted through all these steadier images a tickling vision of a sheep-stealing epic written with Homeric particularity. When Mrs. Casaubon was announced he started up as from an electric shock, and felt a tingling at his finger-ends. Any one observing him would have seen a change in his complexion, in the adjustment of his facial muscles, in the vividness of his glance, which might have made them imagine that every molecule in his body had passed the message of a magic touch. And so it had. For effective magic is transcendent nature; and who shall measure the subtlety of those touches which convey the quality of soul as well as body, and make a man’s passion for one woman differ from his passion for another as joy in the morning light over valley and river and white mountain-top differs from joy among Chinese lanterns and glass panels? Will, too, was made of very impressible stuff. The bow of a violin drawn near him cleverly, would at one stroke change the aspect of the world for him, and his point of view shifted— as easily as his mood. Dorothea’s entrance was the freshness of morning.
威尔刚才还沉浸在无聊的深渊中，不得不帮助布鲁克先生整理有关绞死偷羊贼的“文件”，他通过内心的安排，举例说明了我们的思想具有同时骑上几匹马的力量。为自己在米德尔马奇找到住处并缩短他在农庄的长期居住时间的措施；与此同时，在所有这些更稳定的图像中掠过一个令人发痒的景象，这是一部带有荷马特色的偷羊史诗。当卡苏邦夫人的消息被宣布时，他像触电一样惊醒，并感到指尖刺痛。任何一个观察他的人都会看到他脸色的变化，他面部肌肉的调整，他目光的生动，这可能会让他们想象他体内的每一个分子都传递着魔力的信息。确实如此。因为有效的魔法是超然的本质；谁会衡量那些传达灵魂和身体品质的微妙接触，并使男人对一个女人的热情与对另一个女人的热情有所不同，就像晨光洒在山谷、河流和白色山顶上的喜悦不同一样。来自中国灯笼和玻璃板的欢乐？威尔也是由非常令人印象深刻的东西组成的。一把小提琴的琴弓巧妙地靠近他，一下子就改变了他的世界面貌，他的观点也随之改变——就像他的心情一样容易。多萝西娅的到来充满了早晨的清新。

‘Well, my dear, this is pleasant, now,’ said Mr. Brooke, meeting and kissing her. ‘You have left Casaubon with his books, I suppose. That’s right. We must not have you getting too learned for a woman, you know.’
“好吧，亲爱的，现在这很愉快，”布鲁克先生说，遇见并亲吻了她。 “我想你已经把他的书留给了卡苏邦。这是正确的。你知道，我们不能让你对一个女人来说太博学。

‘There is no fear of that, uncle,’ said Dorothea, turning to Will and shaking hands with open cheerfulness, while she made no other form of greeting, but went on answering her uncle. ‘I am very slow. When I want to be busy with books, I am often playing truant among my thoughts. I find it is not so easy to be learned as to plan cottages.’
“不用担心，叔叔，”多萝西娅说，转向威尔，开朗地与他握手，而她没有做其他形式的问候，而是继续回答她的叔叔。 ‘我很慢。当我想忙于书本时，我却常常在思想中逃学。我发现学习规划小屋并不那么容易。

She seated herself beside her uncle opposite to Will, and was evidently preoccupied with something that made her almost unmindful of him. He was ridiculously disappointed, as if he had imagined that her coming had anything to do with him.
她坐在威尔对面的叔叔旁边，显然正全神贯注地做着什么，这让她几乎没有注意到他。他失望得可笑，仿佛他以为她的到来与他有什么关系。

‘Why, yes, my dear, it was quite your hobby to draw plans. But it was good to break that off a little. Hobbies are apt to ran away with us, you know; it doesn’t do to be run away with. We must keep the reins. I have never let myself be run away with; I always pulled up. That is what I tell Ladislaw. He and I are alike, you know: he likes to go into everything. We are working at capital punishment. We shall do a great deal together, Ladislaw and I.’
“嗯，是的，亲爱的，画计划是你的爱好。但稍微打破这一点是件好事。你知道，爱好很容易与我们失之交臂。逃跑是不行的。我们必须掌握主动权。我从来没有让自己逃脱；我总是拉起来。这就是我告诉拉迪斯瓦夫的。你知道，他和我很相似：他喜欢深入研究一切。我们正在致力于死刑。拉迪斯瓦夫和我，我们将一起做很多事情。

‘Yes,’ said Dorothea, with characteristic directness, ‘Sir James has been telling me that he is in hope of seeing a great change made soon in your management of the estate—that you are thinking of having the farms valued, and repairs made, and the cottages improved, so that Tipton may look quite another place. Oh, how happy!’— she went on, clasping her hands, with a return to that more childlike impetuous manner, which had been subdued since her marriage. ‘If I were at home still, I should take to riding again, that I might go about with you and see all that! And you are going to engage Mr. Garth, who praised my cottages, Sir James says.’
“是的，”多萝西娅以特有的直率说道，“詹姆斯爵士一直告诉我，他希望看到您对庄园的管理很快发生巨大变化——您正在考虑对农场进行估价，并进行修缮，小屋也得到了改善，因此蒂普顿看起来可能完全是另一个地方。哦，多么幸福啊！”——她紧握着双手继续说道，又恢复了自结婚以来那种孩子气的冲动态度。 “如果我还在家里，我应该再次骑马，这样我就可以和你一起去看看这一切！”詹姆斯爵士说，你将与加思先生交往，他称赞了我的小屋。

‘Chettam is a little hasty, my dear,’ said Mr. Brooke, coloring slightly; ‘a little hasty, you know. I never said I should do anything of the kind. I never said I should NOT do it, you know.’
“切塔姆有点急躁，亲爱的，”布鲁克先生说，脸色微微红了。 ‘有点仓促，你知道。我从来没有说过我应该做类似的事情。我从来没有说过我不应该这样做，你知道。

‘He only feels confident that you will do it,’ said Dorothea, in a voice as clear and unhesitating as that of a young chorister chanting a credo, ‘because you mean to enter Parliament as a member who cares for the improvement of the people, and one of the first things to be made better is the state of the land and the laborers. Think of Kit Downes, uncle, who lives with his wife and seven children in a house with one sitting room and one bedroom hardly larger than this table!—and those poor Dagleys, in their tumble-down farmhouse, where they live in the back kitchen and leave the other rooms to the rats! That is one reason why I did not like the pictures here, dear uncle—which you think me stupid about. I used to come from the village with all that dirt and coarse ugliness like a pain within me, and the simpering pictures in the drawing-room seemed to me like a wicked attempt to find delight in what is false, while we don’t mind how hard the truth is for the neighbors outside our walls. I think we have no right to come forward and urge wider changes for good, until we have tried to alter the evils which lie under our own hands.’
“他只相信你会做到这一点，”多萝西娅说道，声音清晰而毫不犹豫，就像一位年轻唱诗班吟唱信条的声音，“因为你打算作为一名关心人民进步的议员进入议会” ，首先要改善的事情之一就是土地和劳动力的状况。想想基特·唐斯，叔叔，他和他的妻子和七个孩子住在一间只有一间客厅和一间卧室比这张桌子大不了多少的房子里！——还有那些可怜的达格利一家，他们住在他们破旧的农舍里，他们住在后面厨房，把其他房间留给老鼠！这就是我不喜欢这里的照片的原因之一，亲爱的叔叔——你认为我很愚蠢。我曾经来自乡村，肮脏和粗俗的丑陋就像我内心的痛苦，客厅里那些傻笑的图画对我来说似乎是一种邪恶的尝试，试图在虚假的事物中寻找乐趣，而我们并不介意对于我们墙外的邻居来说，事实是多么残酷。我认为我们没有权利挺身而出，敦促进行更广泛的善意变革，除非我们尝试改变我们自己手中的罪恶。”

Dorothea had gathered emotion as she went on, and had forgotten everything except the relief of pouring forth her feelings, unchecked: an experience once habitual with her, but hardly ever present since her marriage, which had been a perpetual struggle of energy with fear. For the moment, Will’s admiration was accompanied with a chilling sense of remoteness. A man is seldom ashamed of feeling that he cannot love a woman so well when he sees a certain greatness in her: nature having intended greatness for men. But nature has sometimes made sad oversights in carrying out her intention; as in the case of good Mr. Brooke, whose masculine consciousness was at this moment in rather a stammering condition under the eloquence of his niece. He could not immediately find any other mode of expressing himself than that of rising, fixing his eye-glass, and fingering the papers before him. At last he said—
多萝西娅一边说着，一边情绪激动起来，除了毫无节制地倾诉自己的感情所带来的轻松之外，她忘记了一切：这种经历曾经是她的习惯，但自从她结婚以来，她就几乎没有再出现过，婚姻一直是精力与恐惧的永久斗争。此刻，威尔的钦佩之情中还夹杂着一丝令人毛骨​​悚然的疏离感。当一个男人看到一个女人身上有某种伟大之处时，他很少会因为自己不能如此爱她而感到羞耻：大自然赋予男人伟大的特质。但大自然有时在实现其意图时会出现令人遗憾的疏忽。就像善良的布鲁克先生一样，他的男性意识此时在他侄女的雄辩之下处于相当结巴的状态。除了站起来、调整镜片、抚摸面前的文件之外，他找不到其他表达自己的方式。最后他说——

‘There is something in what you say, my dear, something in what you say—but not everything—eh, Ladislaw? You and I don’t like our pictures and statues being found fault with. Young ladies are a little ardent, you know—a little one-sided, my dear. Fine art, poetry, that kind of thing, elevates a nation— emollit mores—you understand a little Latin now. But—eh? what?’
“你说的有道理，亲爱的，你说的有道理——但不是全部——呃，拉迪斯瓦夫？你和我都不喜欢我们的照片和雕像被挑剔。年轻的女士们有点热情，你知道的——有点片面，亲爱的。美术、诗歌之类的东西可以提升一个国家的地位——增强道德——你现在懂一点拉丁语了。但是——呃？什么？'

These interrogatives were addressed to the footman who had come in to say that the keeper had found one of Dagley’s boys with a leveret in his hand just killed.
这些疑问是针对进来的男仆说的，看门人发现达格利的一个男孩手里拿着一只小猎犬刚刚被杀。

‘I’ll come, I’ll come. I shall let him off easily, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke aside to Dorothea, shuffling away very cheerfully.
‘我来，我来。 “你知道，我会轻易放他走的。”布鲁克先生对多萝西娅说，一边非常高兴地拖着脚步走开。

‘I hope you feel how right this change is that I—that Sir James wishes for,’ said Dorothea to Will, as soon as her uncle was gone.
“我希望你能感觉到我——詹姆斯爵士所希望的这种改变是多么正确，”多萝西娅在她叔叔一走后就对威尔说道。

‘I do, now I have heard you speak about it. I shall not forget what you have said. But can you think of something else at this moment? I may not have another opportunity of speaking to you about what has occurred,’ said Will, rising with a movement of impatience, and holding the back of his chair with both hands.
“是的，现在我已经听到你谈论这件事了。我不会忘记你说过的话。但此刻你能想到别的事情吗？我可能不会再有机会和你谈论所发生的事情了。”威尔说着，不耐烦地站了起来，双手扶着椅背。

‘Pray tell me what it is,’ said Dorothea, anxiously, also rising and going to the open window, where Monk was looking in, panting and wagging his tail. She leaned her back against the window-frame, and laid her hand on the dog’s head; for though, as we know, she was not fond of pets that must be held in the hands or trodden on, she was always attentive to the feelings of dogs, and very polite if she had to decline their advances.
“请告诉我那是什么，”多萝西娅焦急地说，同时也起身走到开着的窗户前，蒙克正气喘吁吁地摇着尾巴往里看。她把背靠在窗框上，把手放在狗的头上。因为，正如我们所知，尽管她不喜欢必须握在手里或被踩在脚上的宠物，但她总是很关心狗的感受，如果不得不拒绝它们的示好，她也会非常有礼貌。

Will followed her only with his eyes and said, ‘I presume you know that Mr. Casaubon has forbidden me to go to his house.’
威尔只用目光追随她，说道：“我想你知道卡苏邦先生禁止我去他家。”

‘No, I did not,’ said Dorothea, after a moment’s pause. She was evidently much moved. ‘I am very, very sorry,’ she added, mournfully. She was thinking of what Will had no knowledge of—the conversation between her and her husband in the darkness; and she was anew smitten with hopelessness that she could influence Mr. Casaubon’s action. But the marked expression of her sorrow convinced Will that it was not all given to him personally, and that Dorothea had not been visited by the idea that Mr. Casaubon’s dislike and jealousy of him turned upon herself. He felt an odd mixture of delight and vexation: of delight that he could dwell and be cherished in her thought as in a pure home, without suspicion and without stint—of vexation because he was of too little account with her, was not formidable enough, was treated with an unhesitating benevolence which did not flatter him. But his dread of any change in Dorothea was stronger than his discontent, and he began to speak again in a tone of mere explanation.
“不，我没有，”多萝西娅停顿了一下后说道。看得出来她很感动。 “我非常非常抱歉，”她悲伤地补充道。她在想威尔不知道的事情——她和她丈夫在黑暗中的对话；她再次对自己能够影响卡苏邦先生的行动感到绝望。但她明显的悲伤表情让威尔相信，这一切并非都是他个人造成的，而且多萝西娅并没有意识到卡苏邦先生对他的厌恶和嫉妒转向了她自己。他感到一种奇怪的混合着喜悦和烦恼的感觉：高兴的是他可以像在一个纯净的家一样居住在她的思想中并受到珍惜，没有怀疑，没有限制——而烦恼是因为他对她来说太不重要，不够强大。 ，受到了毫不犹豫的仁慈对待，这并没有让他受宠若惊。但他对多萝西娅任何变化的恐惧比他的不满更强烈，他又开始以纯粹解释的语气说话。

‘Mr. Casaubon’s reason is, his displeasure at my taking a position here which he considers unsuited to my rank as his cousin. I have told him that I cannot give way on this point. It is a little too hard on me to expect that my course in life is to be hampered by prejudices which I think ridiculous. Obligation may be stretched till it is no better than a brand of slavery stamped on us when we were too young to know its meaning. I would not have accepted the position if I had not meant to make it useful and honorable. I am not bound to regard family dignity in any other light.’
'先生。卡苏邦的理由是，他对我在这里担任的职位感到不满，他认为我不适合我作为他表弟的地位。我已经告诉他，在这一点上我不能让步。期望我的人生道路会受到我认为荒谬的偏见的阻碍，这对我来说有点太难了。义务可能会被延伸，直到它就像我们太年轻时不知道其含义时烙在我们身上的奴隶制烙印一样。如果我不是想让这个职位变得有用和光荣，我就不会接受这个职位。我没有义务以任何其他角度看待家庭尊严。”

Dorothea felt wretched. She thought her husband altogether in the wrong, on more grounds than Will had mentioned.
多萝西娅感到很不幸。她认为她的丈夫完全错了，理由比威尔提到的还要多。

‘It is better for us not to speak on the subject,’ she said, with a tremulousness not common in her voice, ‘since you and Mr. Casaubon disagree. You intend to remain?’ She was looking out on the lawn, with melancholy meditation.
“我们最好不要谈论这个话题，”她说道，声音中带着罕见的颤抖，“因为你和卡苏邦先生意见不一致。你打算留下来吗？”她望着窗外的草坪，忧郁地沉思着。

‘Yes; but I shall hardly ever see you now,’ said Will, in a tone of almost boyish complaint.
'是的; “但我现在几乎见不到你了。”威尔用近乎孩子气的抱怨语气说道。

‘No,’ said Dorothea, turning her eyes full upon him, ‘hardly ever. But I shall hear of you. I shall know what you are doing for my uncle.’
“不，”多萝西娅说，眼睛盯着他，“几乎从来没有。”但我会听到你的消息。我会知道你在为我叔叔做什么。

‘I shall know hardly anything about you,’ said Will. ‘No one will tell me anything.’
“我对你几乎一无所知，”威尔说。 “没有人会告诉我任何事情。”

‘Oh, my life is very simple,’ said Dorothea, her lips curling with an exquisite smile, which irradiated her melancholy. ‘I am always at Lowick.’
“哦，我的生活很简单。”多萝西娅说道，嘴角勾起一抹精致的微笑，散发着忧郁的光芒。 “我一直在洛威克。”

‘That is a dreadful imprisonment,’ said Will, impetuously.
“这是一次可怕的监禁，”威尔急躁地说。

‘No, don’t think that,’ said Dorothea. ‘I have no longings.’
“不，别这么想，”多萝西娅说。 “我没有什么渴望。”

He did not speak, but she replied to some change in his expression. ‘I mean, for myself. Except that I should like not to have so much more than my share without doing anything for others. But I have a belief of my own, and it comforts me.’
他没有说话，但她对他表情的一些变化做出了回应。 “我的意思是，为了我自己。只是我不希望在不为他人做任何事情的情况下拥有超出我应得份额的东西。但我有自己的信念，这让我感到安慰。”

‘What is that?’ said Will, rather jealous of the belief.
“那是什么？”威尔问道，对这个信念相当嫉妒。

‘That by desiring what is perfectly good, even when we don’t quite know what it is and cannot do what we would, we are part of the divine power against evil—widening the skirts of light and making the struggle with darkness narrower.’
“通过渴望完美的事物，即使我们不太知道它是什么，也无法做我们想做的事，我们就成为对抗邪恶的神圣力量的一部分——扩大了光明的边缘，使与黑暗的斗争变得更窄。 '

‘That is a beautiful mysticism—it is a—‘
“这是一种美丽的神秘主义——它是——”

‘Please not to call it by any name,’ said Dorothea, putting out her hands entreatingly. ‘You will say it is Persian, or something else geographical. It is my life. I have found it out, and cannot part with it. I have always been finding out my religion since I was a little girl. I used to pray so much—now I hardly ever pray. I try not to have desires merely for myself, because they may not be good for others, and I have too much already. I only told you, that you might know quite well how my days go at Lowick.’
“请不要称呼它任何名字，”多萝西娅说道，伸出双手恳求道。 “你会说它是波斯语，或者是其他地理的东西。它是我的生命。我已经发现了它，并且无法割舍它。从我还是个小女孩的时候起，我就一直在寻找我的宗教信仰。我曾经经常祈祷——现在我几乎不再祈祷了。我尽量不只为自己有欲望，因为这可能对其他人没有好处，而我已经拥有太多了。我只是告诉过你，你可能很清楚我在洛威克的日子过得怎么样。

‘God bless you for telling me!’ said Will, ardently, and rather wondering at himself. They were looking at each other like two fond children who were talking confidentially of birds.
“上帝保佑你告诉了我！”威尔热切地说道，同时也对自己感到有些惊讶。他们互相看着对方，就像两个可爱的孩子正在秘密地谈论鸟类。

‘What is YOUR religion?’ said Dorothea. ‘I mean—not what you know about religion, but the belief that helps you most?’
“你的宗教信仰是什么？”多萝西娅问道。 “我的意思是——不是你对宗教的了解，而是对你最有帮助的信仰？”

‘To love what is good and beautiful when I see it,’ said Will. ‘But I am a rebel: I don’t feel bound, as you do, to submit to what I don’t like.’
“当我看到美好的事物时，就会爱上它，”威尔说。 “但我是一个叛逆者：我不像你那样觉得有义务屈服于我不喜欢的事情。”

‘But if you like what is good, that comes to the same thing,’ said Dorothea, smiling.
“但如果你喜欢好的东西，那就是同样的事情，”多萝西娅微笑着说。

‘Now you are subtle,’ said Will.
“现在你很狡猾了，”威尔说。

‘Yes; Mr. Casaubon often says I am too subtle. I don’t feel as if I were subtle,’ said Dorothea, playfully. ‘But how long my uncle is! I must go and look for him. I must really go on to the Hall. Celia is expecting me.’
'是的;卡苏邦先生经常说我太微妙了。 “我不觉得自己很狡猾。”多萝西娅开玩笑地说。 ‘但是我叔叔有多长啊！我必须去找他。我真的必须去大厅。西莉亚正在等我。

Will offered to tell Mr. Brooke, who presently came and said that he would step into the carriage and go with Dorothea as far as Dagley’s, to speak about the small delinquent who had been caught with the Ieveret. Dorothea renewed the subject of the estate as they drove along, but Mr. Brooke, not being taken unawares, got the talk under his own control.
威尔提出要告诉布鲁克先生，布鲁克先生很快就来了，说他会登上马车，和多萝西娅一起去达格利家，谈谈那个和伊弗雷特一起被捕的小罪犯。一路上，多萝西娅又重新提起了庄园的话题，但布鲁克先生并没有措手不及，他自己控制了谈话。

‘Chettam, now,’ he replied; ‘he finds fault with me, my dear; but I should not preserve my game if it were not for Chettam, and he can’t say that that expense is for the sake of the tenants, you know. It’s a little against my feeling:—poaching, now, if you come to look into it—I have often thought of getting up the subject. Not long ago, Flavell, the Methodist preacher, was brought up for knocking down a hare that came across his path when he and his wife were walking out together. He was pretty quick, and knocked it on the neck.’
“切塔姆，现在，”他回答道。 “他对我挑剔，亲爱的；但如果不是切塔姆，我就不应该保留我的比赛，而且他不能说这笔费用是为了租户，你知道的。这有点违背我的感觉：——偷猎，现在，如果你仔细研究一下的话——我经常想提起这个话题。不久前，卫理公会传教士弗拉维尔因和妻子一起外出时撞倒了一只挡在他路上的野兔而受到处罚。他动作很快，就撞到了脖子上。”

‘That was very brutal, I think,’ said Dorothea
“我认为这非常残酷，”多萝西娅说

‘Well, now, it seemed rather black to me, I confess, in a Methodist preacher, you know. And Johnson said, ‘You may judge what a hypoCRITE he is.’ And upon my word, I thought Flavell looked very little like ‘the highest style of man’— as somebody calls the Christian—Young, the poet Young, I think— you know Young? Well, now, Flavell in his shabby black gaiters, pleading that he thought the Lord had sent him and his wife a good dinner, and he had a right to knock it down, though not a mighty hunter before the Lord, as Nimrod was—I assure you it was rather comic: Fielding would have made something of it—or Scott, now—Scott might have worked it up. But really, when I came to think of it, I couldn’t help liking that the fellow should have a bit of hare to say grace over. It’s all a matter of prejudice—prejudice with the law on its side, you know—about the stick and the gaiters, and so on. However, it doesn’t do to reason about things; and law is law. But I got Johnson to be quiet, and I hushed the matter up. I doubt whether Chettam would not have been more severe, and yet he comes down on me as if I were the hardest man in the county. But here we are at Dagley’s.’
“嗯，现在，我承认，卫理公会传教士的形象对我来说相当黑暗，你知道。约翰逊说，“你可以判断他是一个多么伪善的人。”据我所知，我认为弗拉维尔看起来不太像“最高风格的人”——正如有人所说的基督徒——杨格，诗人杨格，我认为——你认识杨吗？好吧，现在，弗拉维尔穿着破旧的黑色绑腿，恳求他认为主给了他和他的妻子一顿丰盛的晚餐，他有权把它打倒，尽管他在主面前不是一个强大的猎人，就像宁罗德那样——我向你保证，这相当滑稽：菲尔丁可能会做出一些东西——或者斯科特，现在——斯科特可能会把它发挥出来。但说实话，当我想到这一点时，我不禁喜欢这家伙应该有一点兔子来表达恩典。这都是偏见的问题——你知道，法律站在一边的偏见——关于棍棒和绑腿等等。然而，它并不能用来推理事物。法律就是法律。但我让约翰逊保持沉默，这件事就被我平息了。我怀疑切塔姆是否会更加严厉，但他对我的态度就好像我是全县最严厉的人一样。但我们现在在达格利店。”

Mr. Brooke got down at a farmyard-gate, and Dorothea drove on. It is wonderful how much uglier things will look when we only suspect that we are blamed for them. Even our own persons in the glass are apt to change their aspect for us after we have heard some frank remark on their less admirable points; and on the other hand it is astonishing how pleasantly conscience takes our encroachments on those who never complain or have nobody to complain for them. Dagley’s homestead never before looked so dismal to Mr. Brooke as it did today, with his mind thus sore about the fault-finding of the ‘Trumpet,’ echoed by Sir James.
布鲁克先生在农家门口下了车，多萝西娅继续前行。令人惊奇的是，当我们只怀疑自己因事情而受到指责时，事情看起来会变得更加丑陋。即使是镜中的我们自己，在我们听到一些关于他们不太令人钦佩的观点的坦率评论后，也容易改变他们对我们的看法；另一方面，令人惊讶的是，我们对那些从不抱怨或没有人为他们抱怨的人的侵犯，良心是多么高兴。在布鲁克先生看来，达格利的家园从来没有像今天这样令人沮丧，他对“喇叭”的吹毛求疵感到非常痛苦，詹姆斯爵士也附和道。

It is true that an observer, under that softening influence of the fine arts which makes other people’s hardships picturesque, might have been delighted with this homestead called Freeman’s End: the old house had dormer-windows in the dark red roof, two of the chimneys were choked with ivy, the large porch was blocked up with bundles of sticks, and half the windows were closed with gray worm-eaten shutters about which the jasmine-boughs grew in wild luxuriance; the mouldering garden wall with hollyhocks peeping over it was a perfect study of highly mingled subdued color, and there was an aged goat (kept doubtless on interesting superstitious grounds) lying against the open back-kitchen door. The mossy thatch of the cow-shed, the broken gray barn-doors, the pauper laborers in ragged breeches who had nearly finished unloading a wagon of corn into the barn ready for early thrashing; the scanty dairy of cows being tethered for milking and leaving one half of the shed in brown emptiness; the very pigs and white ducks seeming to wander about the uneven neglected yard as if in low spirits from feeding on a too meagre quality of rinsings,— all these objects under the quiet light of a sky marbled with high clouds would have made a sort of picture which we have all paused over as a ‘charming bit,’ touching other sensibilities than those which are stirred by the depression of the agricultural interest, with the sad lack of farming capital, as seen constantly in the newspapers of that time. But these troublesome associations were just now strongly present to Mr. Brooke, and spoiled the scene for him. Mr. Dagley himself made a figure in the landscape, carrying a pitchfork and wearing his milking-hat—a very old beaver flattened in front. His coat and breeches were the best he had, and he would not have been wearing them on this weekday occasion if he had not been to market and returned later than usual, having given himself the rare treat of dining at the public table of the Blue Bull. How he came to fall into this extravagance would perhaps be matter of wonderment to himself on the morrow; but before dinner something in the state of the country, a slight pause in the harvest before the Far Dips were cut, the stories about the new King and the numerous handbills on the walls, had seemed to warrant a little recklessness. It was a maxim about Middlemarch, and regarded as self-evident, that good meat should have good drink, which last Dagley interpreted as plenty of table ale well followed up by rum-and-water. These liquors have so far truth in them that they were not false enough to make poor Dagley seem merry: they only made his discontent less tongue-tied than usual. He had also taken too much in the shape of muddy political talk, a stimulant dangerously disturbing to his farming conservatism, which consisted in holding that whatever is, is bad, and any change is likely to be worse. He was flushed, and his eyes had a decidedly quarrelsome stare as he stood still grasping his pitchfork, while the landlord approached with his easy shuffling walk, one hand in his trouser-pocket and the other swinging round a thin walking-stick.
诚然，在美术的软化影响下，观察者可能会对这座名为“弗里曼尽头”的宅基地感到高兴：这栋老房子的深红色屋顶上有老虎窗，两个烟囱长满了常春藤，大门廊被成捆的树枝堵住，一半的窗户都用被虫蛀的灰色百叶窗关着，百叶窗周围长满了茉莉花枝条。腐烂的花园墙壁上有蜀葵在上面窥视，这是对高度混合的柔和色彩的完美研究，还有一只年迈的山羊（无疑是出于有趣的迷信理由而饲养的）靠在敞开的后厨房门上。牛棚长满青苔的茅草顶，破烂的灰色谷仓门，穿着破烂马裤的穷苦工人，他们即将把一车玉米卸到谷仓里，准备早点打熟；奶牛数量稀少，奶牛被拴着挤奶，棚屋的一半空空荡荡。那些猪和白鸭子似乎在凹凸不平、被忽视的院子里徘徊，好像因为吃了太少的洗涤物而情绪低落——所有这些物体在高云密布的天空的安静光线下，都会构成一种我们都把这幅画面视为“迷人的一点”，它触动了其他情感，而不是那些因农业兴趣低迷而引起的情感，以及农业资本的可悲缺乏，正如当时的报纸上经常看到的那样。但这些麻烦的联想此时此刻却强烈地出现在布鲁克先生身上，破坏了他的场面。达格利先生本人在风景中留下了一个身影，他拿着干草叉，戴着挤奶帽——前面压扁了一只很老的海狸。 他的外套和马裤是他所拥有的最好的，如果他没有去市场并且比平时回来得晚一些，他就不会在这个工作日穿它们，因为他给了自己难得的机会在蓝色的公共餐桌上用餐。公牛。他是如何陷入这种奢侈的境地的，也许第二天他自己就会感到惊讶。但在晚饭前，国家的状况、收割前的收割稍有停顿、新国王的故事以及墙上的大量传单，似乎都证明了有点鲁莽。这是关于米德尔马契的一句格言，被认为是不言而喻的：好肉应该配好酒，最后达格利将其解释为大量的淡啤酒，然后是朗姆酒和水。到目前为止，这些酒都是真实的，它们并没有虚伪到让可怜的达格利看起来很高兴：它们只是让他的不满情绪不像平常那​​样结结巴巴。他还接受了太多含糊的政治言论，这是一种对他的农业保守主义产生危险干扰的兴奋剂，他认为无论什么都是坏的，任何改变都可能更糟。他脸色通红，手里握着干草叉站着不动，眼睛里流露出明显的争吵，而房东则一只手插在裤兜里，另一只手拿着一根细手杖，迈着轻松的脚步走近。

‘Dagley, my good fellow,’ began Mr. Brooke, conscious that he was going to be very friendly about the boy.
“达格利，我的好朋友，”布鲁克先生开始说道，他意识到自己会对这个男孩非常友好。

‘Oh, ay, I’m a good feller, am I? Thank ye, sir, thank ye,’ said Dagley, with a loud snarling irony which made Fag the sheep-dog stir from his seat and prick his ears; but seeing Monk enter the yard after some outside loitering, Fag seated himself again in an attitude of observation. ‘I’m glad to hear I’m a good feller.’
“噢，是的，我是个好人，不是吗？谢谢你，先生，谢谢你。”达格利大声讽刺地说，咆哮着，这让牧羊犬法格从座位上惊了起来，竖起了耳朵。但看到蒙克在外面闲逛了一会后走进了院子，法格又摆出观察的态度坐下来。 “我很高兴听到我是个好人。”

Mr. Brooke reflected that it was market-day, and that his worthy tenant had probably been dining, but saw no reason why he should not go on, since he could take the precaution of repeating what he had to say to Mrs. Dagley.
布鲁克先生想，今天是集市日，他值得尊敬的房客可能正在用餐，但他没有理由不继续下去，因为他可以采取预防措施，重复他必须对达格利夫人说的话。

‘Your little lad Jacob has been caught killing a leveret, Dagley: I have told Johnson to lock him up in the empty stable an hour or two, just to frighten him, you know. But he will be brought home by-and-by, before night: and you’ll just look after him, will you, and give him a reprimand, you know?’
“你的小伙子雅各布杀死一只小兔子被抓了，达格利：我已经告诉约翰逊把他锁在空荡荡的马厩里一两个小时，只是为了吓唬他，你知道的。但他很快就会在晚上之前被带回家：你会照顾他，好吗？并训斥他，你知道吗？

‘No, I woon’t: I’ll be dee’d if I’ll leather my boy to please you or anybody else, not if you was twenty landlords istid o’ one, and that a bad un.’
“不，我不会：如果我愿意用我的孩子来取悦你或其他任何人，我会死的，如果你是二十个地主，那是一个糟糕的联合国。”

Dagley’s words were loud enough to summon his wife to the back-kitchen door—the only entrance ever used, and one always open except in bad weather—and Mr. Brooke, saying soothingly, ‘Well, well, I’ll speak to your wife—I didn’t mean beating, you know,’ turned to walk to the house. But Dagley, only the more inclined to ‘have his say’ with a gentleman who walked away from him, followed at once, with Fag slouching at his heels and sullenly evading some small and probably charitable advances on the part of Monk.
达格利的话声音很大，足以把他的妻子召唤到后厨房的门前——这是唯一使用过的入口，除非天气不好，否则总是开着的——布鲁克先生安慰道：“好吧，好吧，我会和你谈谈。”妻子——你知道，我不是指殴打，”转身向屋子走去。但达格利更倾向于对一位离开他的绅士“发表意见”，他立即跟在他身后，法格无精打采地跟在他身后，闷闷不乐地回避蒙克的一些小而可能是慈善的举动。

‘How do you do, Mrs. Dagley?’ said Mr. Brooke, making some haste. ‘I came to tell you about your boy: I don’t want you to give him the stick, you know.’ He was careful to speak quite plainly this time.
“你好吗，达格利夫人？”布鲁克先生说，语气有些急促。 “我来是为了告诉你关于你儿子的事：你知道，我不想让你给他棍子。”这次他小心翼翼地把话说得很直白。

Overworked Mrs. Dagley—a thin, worn woman, from whose life pleasure had so entirely vanished that she had not even any Sunday clothes which could give her satisfaction in preparing for church— had already had a misunderstanding with her husband since he had come home, and was in low spirits, expecting the worst. But her husband was beforehand in answering.
过度劳累的达格利夫人——一个瘦弱、疲惫的女人，生活中的乐趣已经完全消失了，她甚至没有任何周日的衣服可以让她在准备去教堂时感到满意——自从她丈夫回家后，她就和他产生了误会。 ，心情低落，期待着最坏的结果。但她的丈夫提前回答了。

‘No, nor he woon’t hev the stick, whether you want it or no,’ pursued Dagley, throwing out his voice, as if he wanted it to hit hard. ‘You’ve got no call to come an’ talk about sticks o’ these primises, as you woon’t give a stick tow’rt mending. Go to Middlemarch to ax for YOUR charrickter.’
“不，他也不愿意举起棍子，不管你愿不愿意，”达格利继续说道，声音很大，好像他想让棍子重击一样。 “你没有接到电话来谈论这些问题，因为你不会修理一根棍子。”去米德尔马契砍掉你的角色。

‘You’d far better hold your tongue, Dagley,’ said the wife, ‘and not kick your own trough over. When a man as is father of a family has been an’ spent money at market and made himself the worse for liquor, he’s done enough mischief for one day. But I should like to know what my boy’s done, sir.’
“达格利，你最好闭嘴，”妻子说，“别把自己的槽踢翻了。”当一个作为一家之主的男人在市场上花了钱，让自己因酗酒而变得更糟时，他一天的恶作剧就已经够多了。但我想知道我的孩子做了什么，先生。”

‘Niver do you mind what he’s done,’ said Dagley, more fiercely, ‘it’s my business to speak, an’ not yourn. An’ I wull speak, too. I’ll hev my say—supper or no. An’ what I say is, as I’ve lived upo’ your ground from my father and grandfather afore me, an’ hev dropped our money into’t, an’ me an’ my children might lie an’ rot on the ground for top-dressin’ as we can’t find the money to buy, if the King wasn’t to put a stop.’
“你不在乎他做了什么，”达格利更加激烈地说，“说话是我的事，而不是你的事。我也会发言。我自己说了算——吃不吃晚饭。我所说的是，正如我在我之前的父亲和祖父那里生活在你们的土地上一样，他把我们的钱投入其中，我和我的孩子们可能会躺在地上腐烂“如果国王不阻止的话，我们就没有钱购买。”

‘My good fellow, you’re drunk, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, confidentially but not judiciously. ‘Another day, another day,’ he added, turning as if to go.
“我的好朋友，你知道，你喝醉了。”布鲁克先生秘密地说，但语气并不明智。 “改天，改天，”他补充道，转身就要走。

But Dagley immediately fronted him, and Fag at his heels growled low, as his master’s voice grew louder and more insulting, while Monk also drew close in silent dignified watch. The laborers on the wagon were pausing to listen, and it seemed wiser to be quite passive than to attempt a ridiculous flight pursued by a bawling man.
但达格利立即冲到了他的前面，跟在他后面的法格低声咆哮，他主人的声音越来越大，越来越侮辱人，而蒙克也靠近了，默默地凝视着。马车上的工人们都停下来听着，被动地听着似乎比试图被一个嚎啕大哭的人追赶的荒唐逃跑更明智。

‘I’m no more drunk nor you are, nor so much,’ said Dagley. ‘I can carry my liquor, an’ I know what I meean. An’ I meean as the King ‘ull put a stop to ‘t, for them say it as knows it, as there’s to be a Rinform, and them landlords as never done the right thing by their tenants ‘ull be treated i’ that way as they’ll hev to scuttle off. An’ there’s them i’ Middlemarch knows what the Rinform is—an’ as knows who’ll hev to scuttle. Says they, ‘I know who YOUR landlord is.’ An’ says I, ‘I hope you’re the better for knowin’ him, I arn’t.’ Says they, ‘He’s a close-fisted un.’ ‘Ay ay,’ says I. ‘He’s a man for the Rinform,’ says they. That’s what they says. An’ I made out what the Rinform were— an’ it were to send you an’ your likes a-scuttlin’ an’ wi’ pretty strong-smellin’ things too. An’ you may do as you like now, for I’m none afeard on you. An’ you’d better let my boy aloan, an’ look to yoursen, afore the Rinform has got upo’ your back. That’s what I’n got to say,’ concluded Mr. Dagley, striking his fork into the ground with a firmness which proved inconvenient as he tried to draw it up again.
“我不再醉了，你也没有醉，也没有醉得那么厉害。”达格利说。 “我可以携带酒，”我知道我的意思。我的意思是，国王会制止这种行为，因为他们都这么说，因为会有一个 Rinform，而他们这些房东，因为他们的房客从来没有做过正确的事，所以他们会受到这样的待遇他们会拼命逃跑。他们就在那里，米德尔马奇知道轮形是什么——也知道谁会奋力掠夺。他们说，“我知道你的房东是谁。”我说，“我希望你能更好地了解他，我不是。”他们说，“他是个铁公鸡。”“是的。”是的，”我说。“他是 Rinform 的人，”他们说。他们就是这么说的。我弄清楚了 Rinform 是什么——它会向你发送你喜欢的东西，还有气味很浓的东西。现在你可以做你想做的事，因为我不怕你。你最好让我的孩子离开，并在林形爬上你的背之前看看你的儿子。 “这就是我要说的。”达格利先生总结道，用力地将叉子敲入地面，但当他试图再次把叉子拔起来时，事实证明这很不方便。

At this last action Monk began to bark loudly, and it was a moment for Mr. Brooke to escape. He walked out of the yard as quickly as he could, in some amazement at the novelty of his situation. He had never been insulted on his own land before, and had been inclined to regard himself as a general favorite (we are all apt to do so, when we think of our own amiability more than of what other people are likely to want of us). When he had quarrelled with Caleb Garth twelve years before he had thought that the tenants would be pleased at the landlord’s taking everything into his own hands.
在这最后的动作中，蒙克开始大声吠叫，这是布鲁克先生逃跑的时刻。他尽快走出院子，对自己的新奇处境感到有些惊讶。他以前从未在自己的土地上受到过侮辱，并且倾向于认为自己是普遍的宠儿（当我们更多地考虑自己的和蔼可亲而不是其他人对我们的期望时，我们都倾向于这样做）。十二年前，当他与迦勒·加斯争吵时，他以为房客们会因为房东把一切都掌握在自己手中而感到高兴。

Some who follow the narrative of his experience may wonder at the midnight darkness of Mr. Dagley; but nothing was easier in those times than for an hereditary farmer of his grade to be ignorant, in spite somehow of having a rector in the twin parish who was a gentleman to the backbone, a curate nearer at hand who preached more learnedly than the rector, a landlord who had gone into everything, especially fine art and social improvement, and all the lights of Middlemarch only three miles off. As to the facility with which mortals escape knowledge, try an average acquaintance in the intellectual blaze of London, and consider what that eligible person for a dinner-party would have been if he had learned scant skill in ‘summing’ from the parish-clerk of Tipton, and read a chapter in the Bible with immense difficulty, because such names as Isaiah or Apollos remained unmanageable after twice spelling. Poor Dagley read a few verses sometimes on a Sunday evening, and the world was at least not darker to him than it had been before. Some things he knew thoroughly, namely, the slovenly habits of farming, and the awkwardness of weather, stock and crops, at Freeman’s End— so called apparently by way of sarcasm, to imply that a man was free to quit it if he chose, but that there was no earthly ‘beyond’ open to him.
一些关注达格利先生经历的人可能会对达格利先生的午夜黑暗感到惊讶。但在那个时代，没有什么比他这个等级的世袭农民无知更容易的了，尽管不知何故，双子教区有一位彻头彻尾的绅士的教区长，一位离他较近的副牧师，讲道比教区长更有学问。 ，一位房东，他涉足一切领域，尤其是美术和社会进步，而米德尔马契的所有灯光距离他只有三英里。至于凡人逃避知识的能力，可以试试伦敦知识分子热潮中的一个普通熟人，想想如果那个有资格参加晚宴的人如果从教区职员那里学到了很少的“总结”技巧，他会是什么样的人？蒂普顿的名字，并以极大的困难阅读圣经中的一章，因为像以赛亚或亚波罗这样的名字在两次拼写后仍然难以管理。可怜的达格利有时会在周日晚上读几节经文，世界对他来说至少没有比以前更黑暗。他对一些事情了如指掌，即在弗里曼尽头，不修边幅的耕作习惯，以及糟糕的天气、牲畜和农作物——这么称呼显然是为了讽刺，暗示一个人如果愿意，可以自由地放弃它，但没有任何尘世的“超越”对他开放。

CHAPTER XL
第二十章

Wise in his daily work was he:
他在日常工作中的明智之处在于：

To fruits of diligence,
为了勤奋的果实，

And not to faiths or polity,
不针对信仰或政体，

He plied his utmost sense.
他尽了最大的理智。

These perfect in their little parts,
这些完美的小部分，

Whose work is all their prize—
他们的工作就是他们的全部奖品——

Without them how could laws, or arts,
没有它们，法律或艺术怎么可能

Or towered cities rise?
还是高耸的城市拔地而起？

In watching effects, if only of an electric battery, it is often necessary to change our place and examine a particular mixture or group at some distance from the point where the movement we are interested in was set up. The group I am moving towards is at Caleb Garth’s breakfast-table in the large parlor where the maps and desk were: father, mother, and five of the children. Mary was just now at home waiting for a situation, while Christy, the boy next to her, was getting cheap learning and cheap fare in Scotland, having to his father’s disappointment taken to books instead of that sacred calling ‘business.’
在观察电池的效果时，如果只是观察电池的效果，通常需要改变我们的位置，并在距我们感兴趣的运动发生点一定距离处检查特定的混合物或组。我要前往的那群人是在大客厅里凯莱布·加斯 (Caleb Garth) 的早餐桌上，那里放着地图和桌子：父亲、母亲和五个孩子。玛丽现在正在家里等待情况，而她旁边的男孩克里斯蒂正在苏格兰接受廉价的学习和廉价的票价，不得不让他的父亲失望地看书，而不是神圣的“生意”。

The letters had come—nine costly letters, for which the postman had been paid three and twopence, and Mr. Garth was forgetting his tea and toast while he read his letters and laid them open one above the other, sometimes swaying his head slowly, sometimes screwing up his mouth in inward debate, but not forgetting to cut off a large red seal unbroken, which Letty snatched up like an eager terrier.
信来了——九封昂贵的信，邮递员的工资是三先令两便士，加斯先生一边读着信，一边把信逐一打开，有时慢慢地摇着头，忘记了茶和烤面包，有时他会在内心争论中拧紧嘴巴，但不会忘记将一块红色的大封条完整地切掉，莱蒂像一只急切的小猎犬一样抓住了它。

The talk among the rest went on unrestrainedly, for nothing disturbed Caleb’s absorption except shaking the table when he was writing.
其他人的谈话毫无节制地进行着，除了写作时摇晃桌子之外，没有什么能打扰凯莱布的全神贯注。

Two letters of the nine had been for Mary. After reading them, she had passed them to her mother, and sat playing with her tea-spoon absently, till with a sudden recollection she returned to her sewing, which she had kept on her lap during breakfast.
九封信中，有两封是写给玛丽的。读完后，她把它们递给了母亲，心不在焉地坐在那儿玩弄茶匙，直到她突然想起，又开始做针线活了，早餐时她把针线活放在腿上。

‘Oh, don’t sew, Mary!’ said Ben, pulling her arm down. ‘Make me a peacock with this bread-crumb.’ He had been kneading a small mass for the purpose.
“哦，别缝纫，玛丽！”本说着，拉下了她的手臂。 “用这面包屑给我做一只孔雀。”为此，他揉了一小块面包屑。

‘No, no, Mischief!’ said Mary, good-humoredly, while she pricked his hand lightly with her needle. ‘Try and mould it yourself: you have seen me do it often enough. I must get this sewing done. It is for Rosamond Vincy: she is to be married next week, and she can’t be married without this handkerchief.’ Mary ended merrily, amused with the last notion.
“不，不，恶作剧！”玛丽幽默地说，同时用针轻轻地扎了他的手。 “尝试自己塑造它：你已经看到我经常这样做了。我必须完成这件缝纫工作。这是给罗莎蒙德·文西的：她下周就要结婚了，没有这块手帕她就不能结婚。”玛丽高兴地结束了最后一个想法。

‘Why can’t she, Mary?’ said Letty, seriously interested in this mystery, and pushing her head so close to her sister that Mary now turned the threatening needle towards Letty’s nose.
“为什么她不能，玛丽？”莱蒂说，她对这个谜团非常感兴趣，并将她的头推得离她姐姐如此之近，以至于玛丽现在将威胁性的针转向莱蒂的鼻子。

‘Because this is one of a dozen, and without it there would only be eleven,’ said Mary, with a grave air of explanation, so that Letty sank back with a sense of knowledge.
“因为这是十几个中的一个，没有它就只有十一个。”玛丽带着严肃的解释说道，于是莱蒂带着一种似懂非懂的感觉往后一靠。

‘Have you made up your mind, my dear?’ said Mrs. Garth, laying the letters down.
“亲爱的，你决定了吗？”加斯太太放下信说道。

‘I shall go to the school at York,’ said Mary. ‘I am less unfit to teach in a school than in a family. I like to teach classes best. And, you see, I must teach: there is nothing else to be done.’
“我要去约克的学校，”玛丽说。 “我不适合在学校教书，而更适合在家庭教书。我最喜欢教课。而且，你看，我必须教导：没有其他事可做。

‘Teaching seems to me the most delightful work in the world,’ said Mrs. Garth, with a touch of rebuke in her tone. ‘I could understand your objection to it if you had not knowledge enough, Mary, or if you disliked children.’
“在我看来，教学是世界上最令人愉快的工作，”加斯夫人说道，语气中带着一丝责备。 “如果你没有足够的知识，玛丽，或者如果你不喜欢孩子，我可以理解你的反对意见。”

‘I suppose we never quite understand why another dislikes what we like, mother,’ said Mary, rather curtly. ‘I am not fond of a schoolroom: I like the outside world better. It is a very inconvenient fault of mine.’
“我想我们从来都不太明白为什么别人不喜欢我们喜欢的东西，妈妈，”玛丽相当简短地说。 “我不喜欢教室：我更喜欢外面的世界。这是我的一个非常不方便的错误。

‘It must be very stupid to be always in a girls’ school,’ said Alfred. ‘Such a set of nincompoops, like Mrs. Ballard’s pupils walking two and two.’
“总是在女子学校读书一定是非常愚蠢的，”阿尔弗雷德说。 “真是一群傻瓜，就像巴拉德夫人的学生两两走路一样。”

‘And they have no games worth playing at,’ said Jim. ‘They can neither throw nor leap. I don’t wonder at Mary’s not liking it.’
“而且他们没有什么值得玩的游戏，”吉姆说。 “他们既不能投掷，也不能跳跃。我不奇怪玛丽不喜欢它。

‘What is that Mary doesn’t like, eh?’ said the father, looking over his spectacles and pausing before he opened his next letter.
“玛丽不喜欢什么，嗯？”父亲看着眼镜说道，在打开下一封信之前停了下来。

‘Being among a lot of nincompoop girls,’ said Alfred.
“我是一群愚蠢的女孩，”阿尔弗雷德说。

‘Is it the situation you had heard of, Mary?’ said Caleb, gently, looking at his daughter.
“玛丽，这就是你听说过的情况吗？”凯莱布看着他的女儿，温柔地说。

‘Yes, father: the school at York. I have determined to take it. It is quite the best. Thirty-five pounds a-year, and extra pay for teaching the smallest strummers at the piano.’
“是的，父亲：约克的学校。我已经决定接受它。这是最好的。每年三十五英镑，还有教最小的钢琴演奏者的额外报酬。

‘Poor child! I wish she could stay at home with us, Susan,’ said Caleb, looking plaintively at his wife.
'可怜的孩子！我希望她能留在家里和我们在一起，苏珊。”凯莱布哀怨地看着他的妻子说道。

‘Mary would not be happy without doing her duty,’ said Mrs. Garth, magisterially, conscious of having done her own.
“如果不尽到自己的职责，玛丽就不会高兴。”加斯太太威严地说道，她意识到自己已经尽了自己的职责。

‘It wouldn’t make me happy to do such a nasty duty as that,’ said Alfred—at which Mary and her father laughed silently, but Mrs. Garth said, gravely—
“做这种肮脏的事不会让我高兴，”阿尔弗雷德说——玛丽和她父亲听后默默地笑了，但加斯太太严肃地说——

‘Do find a fitter word than nasty, my dear Alfred, for everything that you think disagreeable. And suppose that Mary could help you to go to Mr. Hanmer’s with the money she gets?’
“我亲爱的阿尔弗雷德，一定要找一个比‘讨厌’更合适的词来形容你认为不愉快的一切。假设玛丽可以用她得到的钱帮助你去汉默先生那里呢？

‘That seems to me a great shame. But she’s an old brick,’ said Alfred, rising from his chair, and pulling Mary’s head backward to kiss her.
“在我看来，这真是一个巨大的耻辱。但她是一块老砖头，”阿尔弗雷德说着从椅子上站起来，把玛丽的头向后拉去吻她。

Mary colored and laughed, but could not conceal that the tears were coming. Caleb, looking on over his spectacles, with the angles of his eyebrows falling, had an expression of mingled delight and sorrow as he returned to the opening of his letter; and even Mrs. Garth, her lips curling with a calm contentment, allowed that inappropriate language to pass without correction, although Ben immediately took it up, and sang, ‘She’s an old brick, old brick, old brick!’ to a cantering measure, which he beat out with his fist on Mary’s arm.
玛丽脸红了，笑了，但无法掩饰泪水夺眶而出。凯莱布透过眼镜，眉毛垂下来，回到信的开头，脸上的表情既高兴又悲伤。就连加斯太太，她的嘴唇因平静的满足而卷曲，没有纠正就允许这种不恰当的语言过去，尽管本立即接了起来，并以慢跑的方式唱道：“她是一块老砖头，老砖头，老砖头！” ，他用拳头打在玛丽的手臂上。

But Mrs. Garth’s eyes were now drawn towards her husband, who was already deep in the letter he was reading. His face had an expression of grave surprise, which alarmed her a little, but he did not like to be questioned while he was reading, and she remained anxiously watching till she saw him suddenly shaken by a little joyous laugh as he turned back to the beginning of the letter, and looking at her above his spectacles, said, in a low tone, ‘What do you think, Susan?’
但现在，加斯太太的目光转向了她的丈夫，他已经深深地沉浸在他正在读的信中了。他的脸上露出一种严重惊讶的表情，这让她有点惊慌，但他不喜欢在阅读时受到质疑，她焦急地看着，直到看到他突然转过身来，被一阵欢快的笑声震住了。信的开头，他从眼镜上方看着她，低声说道：“你觉得怎么样，苏珊？”

She went and stood behind him, putting her hand on his shoulder, while they read the letter together. It was from Sir James Chettam, offering to Mr. Garth the management of the family estates at Freshitt and elsewhere, and adding that Sir James had been requested by Mr. Brooke of Tipton to ascertain whether Mr. Garth would be disposed at the same time to resume the agency of the Tipton property. The Baronet added in very obliging words that he himself was particularly desirous of seeing the Freshitt and Tipton estates under the same management, and he hoped to be able to show that the double agency might be held on terms agreeable to Mr. Garth, whom he would be glad to see at the Hall at twelve o’clock on the following day.
她走过去站在他身后，把手放在他的肩膀上，他们一起读这封信。这是詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士发来的，他向加斯先生提议管理弗雷希特和其他地方的家族庄园，并补充说，蒂普顿的布鲁克先生要求詹姆斯爵士确定是否会同时处置加斯先生。恢复蒂普顿财产的代理权。男爵非常客气地补充说，他本人特别希望看到弗雷希特庄园和蒂普顿庄园处于同一管理之下，他希望能够表明，双重代理可能会按照加斯先生同意的条件进行。我很高兴第二天十二点在大厅见到。

‘He writes handsomely, doesn’t he, Susan?’ said Caleb, turning his eyes upward to his wife, who raised her hand from his shoulder to his ear, while she rested her chin on his head. ‘Brooke didn’t like to ask me himself, I can see,’ he continued, laughing silently.
“他写得很漂亮，不是吗，苏珊？”凯勒布说，眼睛向上看向他的妻子，妻子将手从他的肩膀举到他的耳边，下巴靠在他的头上。 “我看得出来，布鲁克不喜欢亲自问我，”他默默地笑着继续说道。

‘Here is an honor to your father, children,’ said Mrs. Garth, looking round at the five pair of eyes, all fixed on the parents. ‘He is asked to take a post again by those who dismissed him long ago. That shows that he did his work well, so that they feel the want of him.’
“孩子们，这是你们父亲的荣幸。”加斯太太环顾四周，看着那五双眼睛，全都盯着父母。 ‘那些很久以前解雇他的人要求他重新上任。这表明他的工作做得很好，所以他们感受到了他的需要。

‘Like Cincinnatus—hooray!’ said Ben, riding on his chair, with a pleasant confidence that discipline was relaxed.
“就像辛辛纳塔斯一样——万岁！”本坐在椅子上说道，他愉快地相信纪律已经放松了。

‘Will they come to fetch him, mother?’ said Letty, thinking of the Mayor and Corporation in their robes.
“他们会来接他吗，妈妈？”莱蒂说，想着穿着长袍的市长和市政府。

Mrs. Garth patted Letty’s head and smiled, but seeing that her husband was gathering up his letters and likely soon to be out of reach in that sanctuary ‘business,’ she pressed his shoulder and said emphatically—
加斯太太拍拍莱蒂的头，微笑着，但看到她的丈夫正在收拾他的信件，并且很可能很快就会在庇护所的“事务”中遥不可及，她按着他的肩膀，强调说——

‘Now, mind you ask fair pay, Caleb.’
“现在，请注意你要求公平报酬，凯莱布。”

‘Oh yes,’ said Caleb, in a deep voice of assent, as if it would be unreasonable to suppose anything else of him. ‘It’ll come to between four and five hundred, the two together.’ Then with a little start of remembrance he said, ‘Mary, write and give up that school. Stay and help your mother. I’m as pleased as Punch, now I’ve thought of that.’
“哦，是的，”凯莱布用低沉的声音表示同意，仿佛对他做出任何其他的猜测都是不合理的。 “两者加起来，大约有四到五百。”然后他想起了一点，说道：“玛丽，写信放弃那所学校。”留下来帮助你的母亲。我和庞奇一样高兴，现在我想到了这一点。

No manner could have been less like that of Punch triumphant than Caleb’s, but his talents did not lie in finding phrases, though he was very particular about his letter-writing, and regarded his wife as a treasury of correct language.
凯莱布的举止最不像庞奇的胜利，但他的才能并不在于寻找短语，尽管他对写信非常讲究，并认为他的妻子是正确语言的宝库。

There was almost an uproar among the children now, and Mary held up the cambric embroidery towards her mother entreatingly, that it might be put out of reach while the boys dragged her into a dance. Mrs. Garth, in placid joy, began to put the cups and plates together, while Caleb pushing his chair from the table, as if he were going to move to the desk, still sat holding his letters in his hand and looking on the ground meditatively, stretching out the fingers of his left hand, according to a mute language of his own. At last he said—
孩子们几乎一片哗然，玛丽恳求地向母亲举起麻布刺绣，以便在男孩们拖着她跳舞时把它放在够不到的地方。加斯太太在平静的喜悦中开始把杯子和盘子放在一起，而凯勒布则把椅子从桌子上推开，好像要搬到桌子上一样，仍然坐着，手里拿着信，看着地面他若有所思地伸出左手手指，用他自己无声的语言。最后他说——

‘It’s a thousand pities Christy didn’t take to business, Susan. I shall want help by-and-by. And Alfred must go off to the engineering— I’ve made up my mind to that.’ He fell into meditation and finger-rhetoric again for a little while, and then continued: ‘I shall make Brooke have new agreements with the tenants, and I shall draw up a rotation of crops. And I’ll lay a wager we can get fine bricks out of the clay at Bott’s corner. I must look into that: it would cheapen the repairs. It’s a fine bit of work, Susan! A man without a family would be glad to do it for nothing.’
“克里斯蒂没有认真对待此事，苏珊，真是千般遗憾。”我很快就会需要帮助。阿尔弗雷德必须去工程部门——我已经下定决心了。”他又陷入沉思和手指修辞了一会儿，然后继续说道：“我会让布鲁克与租户达成新的协议，我将制定轮作制度。我打赌我们能从博特街角的粘土中取出精美的砖块。我必须研究一下：这会降低维修费用。这是一项很好的工作，苏珊！一个没有家庭的人会很乐意不劳而获。”

‘Mind you don’t, though,’ said his wife, lifting up her finger.
“不过请注意，”他的妻子举起手指说道。

‘No, no; but it’s a fine thing to come to a man when he’s seen into the nature of business: to have the chance of getting a bit of the country into good fettle, as they say, and putting men into the right way with their farming, and getting a bit of good contriving and solid building done—that those who are living and those who come after will be the better for. I’d sooner have it than a fortune. I hold it the most honorable work that is.’ Here Caleb laid down his letters, thrust his fingers between the buttons of his waistcoat, and sat upright, but presently proceeded with some awe in his voice and moving his head slowly aside—‘It’s a great gift of God, Susan.’
'不，不;但是，当一个人了解了商业的本质时，这对他来说是一件好事：有机会让这个国家的一部分变得良好，正如他们所说，让人们走上正确的农业道路，并且完成一些好的设计和坚固的建筑——那些活着的人和死后的人都会变得更好。我宁愿拥有它也不愿拥有财富。我认为这是最光荣的工作。”凯勒布放下信，把手指伸进背心的纽扣里，坐直了身子，但很快他的声音里就带着敬畏，慢慢地将头移到一边——“这是这是上帝的伟大礼物，苏珊。”

‘That it is, Caleb,’ said his wife, with answering fervor. ‘And it will be a blessing to your children to have had a father who did such work: a father whose good work remains though his name may be forgotten.’ She could not say any more to him then about the pay.
“是的，迦勒，”他的妻子热情地回答道。 “如果你的孩子有一位从事这样的工作的父亲，那将是一件幸事：一位父亲，尽管他的名字可能被人遗忘，但他的出色工作却永垂不朽。”当时，她无法再对他说起报酬的事了。

In the evening, when Caleb, rather tired with his day’s work, was seated in silence with his pocket-book open on his knee, while Mrs. Garth and Mary were at their sewing, and Letty in a corner was whispering a dialogue with her doll, Mr. Farebrother came up the orchard walk, dividing the bright August lights and shadows with the tufted grass and the apple-tree boughs. We know that he was fond of his parishioners the Garths, and had thought Mary worth mentioning to Lydgate. He used to the full the clergyman’s privilege of disregarding the Middlemarch discrimination of ranks, and always told his mother that Mrs. Garth was more of a lady than any matron in the town. Still, you see, he spent his evenings at the Vincys’, where the matron, though less of a lady, presided over a well-lit drawing-room and whist. In those days human intercourse was not determined solely by respect. But the Vicar did heartily respect the Garths, and a visit from him was no surprise to that family. Nevertheless he accounted for it even while he was shaking hands, by saying, ‘I come as an envoy, Mrs. Garth: I have something to say to you and Garth on behalf of Fred Vincy. The fact is, poor fellow,’ he continued, as he seated himself and looked round with his bright glance at the three who were listening to him, ‘he has taken me into his confidence.’
晚上，凯勒布对一天的工作感到相当疲倦，他静静地坐着，膝盖上打开着钱包，而加斯太太和玛丽正在做针线活，莱蒂在角落里低声与她对话。娃娃，费雷布拉泽先生沿着果园小道走来，将八月明亮的光影与丛生的草和苹果树枝隔开。我们知道他很喜欢他的教区居民加斯家族，并且认为玛丽值得向利德盖特提及。他充分利用了牧师的特权，无视米德尔马契的等级歧视，并且总是告诉他的母亲，加斯太太比镇上的任何一位主妇都更像一位淑女。尽管如此，你看，他还是在文西家度过了晚上，那里的女主人虽然不那么淑女，但主持着一间光线充足的客厅和惠斯特。在那个时代，人与人之间的交往不仅仅取决于尊重。但牧师确实很尊重加斯一家，他的来访对这个家庭来说并不奇怪。尽管如此，他甚至在握手时也解释了这一点，他说：“我是作为特使来的，加思夫人：我有话要代表弗雷德·文西对你和加思说。”事实是，可怜的家伙，”他坐了下来，用明亮的目光环顾四周，看着正在听他讲话的三个人，继续说道，“他已经把我当成他的秘密了。”

Mary’s heart beat rather quickly: she wondered how far Fred’s confidence had gone.
玛丽的心跳得相当快：她想知道弗雷德的信心已经到了何种程度。

‘We haven’t seen the lad for months,’ said Caleb. ‘I couldn’t think what was become of him.’
“我们已经好几个月没见到这个小伙子了，”凯莱布说。 “我想不出他怎么样了。”

‘He has been away on a visit,’ said the Vicar, ‘because home was a little too hot for him, and Lydgate told his mother that the poor fellow must not begin to study yet. But yesterday he came and poured himself out to me. I am very glad he did, because I have seen him grow up from a youngster of fourteen, and I am so much at home in the house that the children are like nephews and nieces to me. But it is a difficult case to advise upon. However, he has asked me to come and tell you that he is going away, and that he is so miserable about his debt to you, and his inability to pay, that he can’t bear to come himself even to bid you good by.’
“他去拜访了，”牧师说，“因为家里对他来说有点太热了，利德盖特告诉他的母亲，这个可怜的家伙还不能开始学习。但昨天他来向我倾诉自己。我很高兴他这么做了，因为我看着他从十四岁开始长大，我在家里感到很自在，孩子们对我来说就像侄子和侄女。但这是一个很难提供建议的案例。然而，他让我来告诉你，他要走了，他对欠你的债感到非常痛苦，而且无力偿还，他甚至不忍心亲自来向你道别。 .'

‘Tell him it doesn’t signify a farthing,’ said Caleb, waving his hand. ‘We’ve had the pinch and have got over it. And now I’m going to be as rich as a Jew.’
“告诉他这并不代表一分钱，”凯莱布挥舞着他的手说道。 ‘我们已经度过了难关，并且已经克服了。现在我要像犹太人一样富有了。”

‘Which means,’ said Mrs. Garth, smiling at the Vicar, ‘that we are going to have enough to bring up the boys well and to keep Mary at home.’
“这意味着，”加斯夫人对牧师微笑着说，“我们将有足够的钱抚养孩子们，并让玛丽留在家里。”

‘What is the treasure-trove?’ said Mr. Farebrother.
“宝藏是什么？”费雷布拉泽先生问道。

‘I’m going to be agent for two estates, Freshitt and Tipton; and perhaps for a pretty little bit of land in Lowick besides: it’s all the same family connection, and employment spreads like water if it’s once set going. It makes me very happy, Mr. Farebrother’— here Caleb threw back his head a little, and spread his arms on the elbows of his chair—‘that I’ve got an opportunity again with the letting of the land, and carrying out a notion or two with improvements. It’s a most uncommonly cramping thing, as I’ve often told Susan, to sit on horseback and look over the hedges at the wrong thing, and not be able to put your hand to it to make it right. What people do who go into politics I can’t think: it drives me almost mad to see mismanagement over only a few hundred acres.’
“我将成为弗雷希特和蒂普顿两个庄园的经纪人；也许还有洛威克的一小块土地：这都是同样的家庭关系，一旦开始，就业机会就会像水一样蔓延开来。这让我非常高兴，费雷布拉泽先生”——说到这里，凯莱布把头向后仰了一点，双臂撑在椅子的肘部上——“随着土地的出租，我又得到了一个机会，一两个改进的想法。正如我经常告诉苏珊的那样，坐在马背上，越过树篱看错了东西，但却无法把手伸进去纠正，这是一件非常罕见的令人局促的事情。我无法想象那些从政的人会做什么：看到仅仅几百英亩的土地上管理不善，我几乎要疯了。

It was seldom that Caleb volunteered so long a speech, but his happiness had the effect of mountain air: his eyes were bright, and the words came without effort.
凯勒布很少主动发表这么长的演讲，但他的快乐有山间空气的效果：他的眼睛明亮，言语毫不费力。

‘I congratulate you heartily, Garth,’ said the Vicar. ‘This is the best sort of news I could have had to carry to Fred Vincy, for he dwelt a good deal on the injury he had done you in causing you to part with money—robbing you of it, he said—which you wanted for other purposes. I wish Fred were not such an idle dog; he has some very good points, and his father is a little hard upon him.’
“我衷心祝贺你，加斯，”牧师说。 “这是我本可以向弗雷德·文西传达的最好的消息，因为他详细讲述了他对你造成的伤害，导致你失去了金钱——他说是抢走了你的钱——这是你想要的。”用于其他目的。我希望弗雷德不是一只无所事事的狗；他有一些很好的优点，但他的父亲对他有点严厉。

‘Where is he going?’ said Mrs. Garth, rather coldly.
“他要去哪儿？”加斯太太冷冷地说。

‘He means to try again for his degree, and he is going up to study before term. I have advised him to do that. I don’t urge him to enter the Church—on the contrary. But if he will go and work so as to pass, that will be some guarantee that he has energy and a will; and he is quite at sea; he doesn’t know what else to do. So far he will please his father, and I have promised in the mean time to try and reconcile Vincy to his son’s adopting some other line of life. Fred says frankly he is not fit for a clergyman, and I would do anything I could to hinder a man from the fatal step of choosing the wrong profession. He quoted to me what you said, Miss Garth— do you remember it?’ (Mr. Farebrother used to say ‘Mary’ instead of ‘Miss Garth,’ but it was part of his delicacy to treat her with the more deference because, according to Mrs. Vincy’s phrase, she worked for her bread.)
“他打算再次尝试获得学位，并且他将在学期前继续学习。我已经建议他这样做了。我并不敦促他进入教堂——恰恰相反。但如果他愿意努力工作，以便通过，这将在一定程度上保证他有精力和意志；他完全不知所措；他不知道还能做什么。到目前为止，他会取悦他的父亲，同时我也答应尝试让文西和他儿子接受其他的生活方式。弗雷德坦言，他不适合当牧师，而我会尽一切努力阻止一个人迈出选择错误职业的致命一步。他向我引述了你所说的话，加思小姐——你还记得吗？”（法尔布拉泽先生过去常常说“玛丽”而不是“加思小姐”，但他对她更加尊重是他的体贴的一部分，因为，用文西夫人的话来说，她是为了面包而工作。）

Mary felt uncomfortable, but, determined to take the matter lightly, answered at once, ‘I have said so many impertinent things to Fred— we are such old playfellows.’
玛丽感到不自在，但她决定不把这件事当回事，立刻回答道：“我对弗雷德说了很多无礼的话——我们是老玩伴了。”

‘You said, according to him, that he would be one of those ridiculous clergymen who help to make the whole clergy ridiculous. Really, that was so cutting that I felt a little cut myself.’
“据他说，你说他会成为那些让整个神职人员变得可笑的可笑牧师之一。真的，这太刺痛了，我自己都觉得有点刺痛。

Caleb laughed. ‘She gets her tongue from you, Susan,’ he said, with some enjoyment.
迦勒笑了。 “她的舌头是从你那里得到的，苏珊，”他带着些许享受说道。

‘Not its flippancy, father,’ said Mary, quickly, fearing that her mother would be displeased. ‘It is rather too bad of Fred to repeat my flippant speeches to Mr. Farebrother.’
“这不是轻率的事，父亲。”玛丽很快说道，她担心母亲会不高兴。 “弗雷德向费雷布拉泽先生重复我轻率的讲话实在是太糟糕了。”

‘It was certainly a hasty speech, my dear,’ said Mrs. Garth, with whom speaking evil of dignities was a high misdemeanor. ‘We should not value our Vicar the less because there was a ridiculous curate in the next parish.’
“这确实是一次仓促的演讲，亲爱的，”加思夫人说，对她说侮辱尊严的话是一种严重的轻罪。 “我们不应该因为下一个教区有一个可笑的牧师而降低我们的牧师的价值。”

‘There’s something in what she says, though,’ said Caleb, not disposed to have Mary’s sharpness undervalued. ‘A bad workman of any sort makes his fellows mistrusted. Things hang together,’ he added, looking on the floor and moving his feet uneasily with a sense that words were scantier than thoughts.
“不过，她说的话还是有道理的，”凯莱布说道，他不想低估玛丽的敏锐。 “任何一个糟糕的工人都会让他的同事不信任。一切都是联系在一起的，”他补充道，看着地板，不安地移动着双脚，感觉言语比思想更贫乏。

‘Clearly,’ said the Vicar, amused. ‘By being contemptible we set men’s minds, to the tune of contempt. I certainly agree with Miss Garth’s view of the matter, whether I am condemned by it or not. But as to Fred Vincy, it is only fair he should be excused a little: old Featherstone’s delusive behavior did help to spoil him. There was something quite diabolical in not leaving him a farthing after all. But Fred has the good taste not to dwell on that. And what he cares most about is having offended you, Mrs. Garth; he supposes you will never think well of him again.’
“显然，”牧师被逗乐了。 ‘通过卑鄙，我们让人们的思想变得蔑视。我当然同意加思小姐对此事的看法，无论我是否受到谴责。但对于弗雷德·文西来说，他应该得到一点原谅才公平：老费瑟斯通的欺骗行为确实有助于宠坏他。毕竟没有给他留下一分钱，这实在是太邪恶了。但弗雷德的品味很好，不会纠缠于此。他最关心的是冒犯了你，加思夫人；他认为你再也不会看好他了。

‘I have been disappointed in Fred,’ said Mrs. Garth, with decision. ‘But I shall be ready to think well of him again when he gives me good reason to do so.’
“我对弗雷德很失望，”加斯夫人斩钉截铁地说。 “但当他给我充分的理由时，我将准备好再次对他产生好感。”

At this point Mary went out of the room, taking Letty with her.
这时，玛丽带着莱蒂走出了房间。

‘Oh, we must forgive young people when they’re sorry,’ said Caleb, watching Mary close the door. ‘And as you say, Mr. Farebrother, there was the very devil in that old man.’
“哦，当年轻人感到抱歉时，我们必须原谅他们，”凯莱布说，看着玛丽关上门。 “正如你所说，费雷布拉泽先生，那个老人身上充满了魔鬼。”

Now Mary’s gone out, I must tell you a thing—it’s only known to Susan and me, and you’ll not tell it again. The old scoundrel wanted Mary to burn one of the wills the very night he died, when she was sitting up with him by herself, and he offered her a sum of money that he had in the box by him if she would do it. But Mary, you understand, could do no such thing—would not be handling his iron chest, and so on. Now, you see, the will he wanted burnt was this last, so that if Mary had done what he wanted, Fred Vincy would have had ten thousand pounds. The old man did turn to him at the last. That touches poor Mary close; she couldn’t help it— she was in the right to do what she did, but she feels, as she says, much as if she had knocked down somebody’s property and broken it against her will, when she was rightfully defending herself. I feel with her, somehow, and if I could make any amends to the poor lad, instead of bearing him a grudge for the harm he did us, I should be glad to do it. Now, what is your opinion, sir? Susan doesn’t agree with me. She says—tell what you say, Susan.’
现在玛丽出去了，我必须告诉你一件事——只有我和苏珊知道，你不会再说了。老恶棍希望玛丽在他死的那天晚上烧掉其中一份遗嘱，当时她独自坐在他身边，如果她愿意的话，他愿意给她一笔他放在盒子里的钱。但玛丽，你明白，不能做这样的事——不会处理他的铁箱，等等。现在，你看，他想要烧毁的遗嘱是最后的，所以如果玛丽做了他想做的事，弗雷德·文西就会得到一万英镑。老人终于转向他了。这触动了可怜的玛丽；她情不自禁——她有权利做她所做的事，但正如她所说，她感觉就像是在她正当捍卫自己的时候，违背自己的意愿推倒并破坏了某人的财产。不知怎的，我对她有感觉，如果我能为这个可怜的小伙子做出任何补偿，而不是因为他对我们造成的伤害而对他怀恨在心，我会很高兴这样做。现在，先生您有何看法？苏珊不同意我的观点。她说——说吧，苏珊。”

‘Mary could not have acted otherwise, even if she had known what would be the effect on Fred,’ said Mrs. Garth, pausing from her work, and looking at Mr. Farebrother.
“玛丽不可能不这样做，即使她知道会对弗雷德产生什么影响，”加斯太太停下手中的工作，看着费布拉泽先生说道。

‘And she was quite ignorant of it. It seems to me, a loss which falls on another because we have done right is not to lie upon our conscience.’
‘而她对此一无所知。在我看来，因为我们做对了事情而让别人蒙受损失，这并不违背我们的良心。

The Vicar did not answer immediately, and Caleb said, ‘It’s the feeling. The child feels in that way, and I feel with her. You don’t mean your horse to tread on a dog when you’re backing out of the way; but it goes through you, when it’s done.’
牧师没有立即回答，凯莱布说：“就是这种感觉。”孩子有这样的感觉，我也和她有同样的感觉。当你后退时，你并不是想让你的马踩狗；而是让你的马去踩狗。但当它完成时，它会通过你。”

‘I am sure Mrs. Garth would agree with you there,’ said Mr. Farebrother, who for some reason seemed more inclined to ruminate than to speak. ‘One could hardly say that the feeling you mention about Fred is wrong—or rather, mistaken—though no man ought to make a claim on such feeling.’
“我确信加思夫人会同意你的观点，”费勒布拉泽先生说，出于某种原因，他似乎更倾向于沉思而不是说话。 “很难说你提到的关于弗雷德的感觉是错误的——或者更确切地说，是错误的——尽管没有人应该对这种感觉做出断言。”

‘Well, well,’ said Caleb, ‘it’s a secret. You will not tell Fred.’
“好吧，好吧，”迦勒说，“这是一个秘密。”你不会告诉弗雷德的。”

‘Certainly not. But I shall carry the other good news—that you can afford the loss he caused you.’
‘当然不是。但我会带来另一个好消息——你可以承受他给你造成的损失。

Mr. Farebrother left the house soon after, and seeing Mary in the orchard with Letty, went to say good-by to her. They made a pretty picture in the western light which brought out the brightness of the apples on the old scant-leaved boughs—Mary in her lavender gingham and black ribbons holding a basket, while Letty in her well-worn nankin picked up the fallen apples. If you want to know more particularly how Mary looked, ten to one you will see a face like hers in the crowded street to-morrow, if you are there on the watch: she will not be among those daughters of Zion who are haughty, and walk with stretched-out necks and wanton eyes, mincing as they go: let all those pass, and fix your eyes on some small plump brownish person of firm but quiet carriage, who looks about her, but does not suppose that anybody is looking at her. If she has a broad face and square brow, well-marked eyebrows and curly dark hair, a certain expression of amusement in her glance which her mouth keeps the secret of, and for the rest features entirely insignificant— take that ordinary but not disagreeable person for a portrait of Mary Garth. If you made her smile, she would show you perfect little teeth; if you made her angry, she would not raise her voice, but would probably say one of the bitterest things you have ever tasted the flavor of; if you did her a kindness, she would never forget it. Mary admired the keen-faced handsome little Vicar in his well-brushed threadbare clothes more than any man she had had the opportunity of knowing. She had never heard him say a foolish thing, though she knew that he did unwise ones; and perhaps foolish sayings were more objectionable to her than any of Mr. Farebrother’s unwise doings. At least, it was remarkable that the actual imperfections of the Vicar’s clerical character never seemed to call forth the same scorn and dislike which she showed beforehand for the predicted imperfections of the clerical character sustained by Fred Vincy. These irregularities of judgment, I imagine, are found even in riper minds than Mary Garth’s: our impartiality is kept for abstract merit and demerit, which none of us ever saw. Will any one guess towards which of those widely different men Mary had the peculiar woman’s tenderness?—the one she was most inclined to be severe on, or the contrary?
费勒布拉泽先生不久后就离开了家，看到玛丽和莱蒂在果园里，就去向她道别。他们在西边的阳光下拍出了一幅美丽的图画，衬托出稀疏的老树枝上的苹果的亮度——玛丽穿着淡紫色的格子布，系着黑色丝带，手里拿着一个篮子，而莱蒂穿着她那破旧的南京衣服，捡起了掉落的苹果。 。如果你想更具体地了解玛丽的样子，那么明天你会在拥挤的街道上看到一张像她一样的脸，如果你在那里监视的话：她不会是那些傲慢的锡安女儿之一，走路时伸长脖子，眼神肆意，走时装腔作势：让所有这些过去，把你的眼睛固定在一个身材矮小、肥胖、棕色的人身上，她的举止坚定而安静，她环顾四周，但并不认为有人在看对她。如果她有一张宽脸，方眉，眉毛分明，黑发卷曲，眼神中流露出一种她的嘴里隐藏着的有趣的表情，而其他特征则完全无关紧要——就拿那个普通但不令人讨厌的人来说吧。为玛丽·加斯拍摄肖像。如果你让她微笑，她就会向你露出完美的小牙齿；如果你惹她生气了，她不会提高声音，但可能会说出你尝过的最苦涩的话之一；如果你对她有好处，她永远不会忘记。玛丽比她有机会认识的任何男人都更欣赏这位面容锐利、穿着破旧衣服、面容英俊的小牧师。她从未听他说过蠢话，尽管她知道他做过蠢事。也许愚蠢的言论比费雷布拉泽先生的任何不明智的行为更令她反感。 至少，值得注意的是，牧师的牧师性格的实际缺陷似乎从未像她之前对弗雷德·文西所预测的牧师性格的缺陷那样表现出同样的蔑视和厌恶。我想，即使在比玛丽·加思更成熟的头脑中也能发现这些不规则的判断：我们的公正性是为了抽象的优点和缺点而保留的，而我们没有人看到过这些。有人能猜出玛丽对那些截然不同的男人中的哪一个有着这位独特的女人的温柔吗？——她最倾向于严厉对待的那个，或者相反？

‘Have you any message for your old playfellow, Miss Garth?’ said the Vicar, as he took a fragrant apple from the basket which she held towards him, and put it in his pocket. ‘Something to soften down that harsh judgment? I am going straight to see him.’
“加思小姐，你有什么话要给你的老玩伴吗？”牧师一边说，一边从她递给他的篮子里取出一个芳香四溢的苹果，放进自己的口袋里。 ‘有什么可以软化这种严厉的判断吗？我要直接去见他。

‘No,’ said Mary, shaking her head, and smiling. ‘If I were to say that he would not be ridiculous as a clergyman, I must say that he would be something worse than ridiculous. But I am very glad to hear that he is going away to work.’
“不，”玛丽微笑着摇头说道。 “如果我说他作为一名牧师并不可笑，我必须说他比可笑更糟糕。但我很高兴听到他要出去工作。”

‘On the other hand, I am very glad to hear that YOU are not going away to work. My mother, I am sure, will be all the happier if you will come to see her at the vicarage: you know she is fond of having young people to talk to, and she has a great deal to tell about old times. You will really be doing a kindness.’
“另一方面，我很高兴听到你不会出去工作。我相信，如果你来牧师住宅看我的母亲，她会更高兴：你知道她喜欢和年轻人交谈，她有很多旧时光要讲。你真的会做一件好事。

‘I should like it very much, if I may,’ said Mary. ‘Everything seems too happy for me all at once. I thought it would always be part of my life to long for home, and losing that grievance makes me feel rather empty: I suppose it served instead of sense to fill up my mind?’
“如果可以的话，我会非常喜欢它，”玛丽说。 “一切对我来说似乎一下子就太幸福了。我以为对家的渴望将永远是我生活的一部分，而失去那种委屈让我感到相当空虚：我想它是用来充实我的思想而不是有意义的吗？

‘May I go with you, Mary?’ whispered Letty—a most inconvenient child, who listened to everything. But she was made exultant by having her chin pinched and her cheek kissed by Mr. Farebrother— an incident which she narrated to her mother and father.
“我可以和你一起去吗，玛丽？”莱蒂低声说道——她是一个最不方便的孩子，她什么都听。但当费雷布拉泽先生捏住她的下巴、亲吻她的脸颊时，她感到非常高兴——她向父母讲述了这件事。

As the Vicar walked to Lowick, any one watching him closely might have seen him twice shrug his shoulders. I think that the rare Englishmen who have this gesture are never of the heavy type— for fear of any lumbering instance to the contrary, I will say, hardly ever; they have usually a fine temperament and much tolerance towards the smaller errors of men (themselves inclusive). The Vicar was holding an inward dialogue in which he told himself that there was probably something more between Fred and Mary Garth than the regard of old playfellows, and replied with a question whether that bit of womanhood were not a great deal too choice for that crude young gentleman. The rejoinder to this was the first shrug. Then he laughed at himself for being likely to have felt jealous, as if he had been a man able to marry, which, added he, it is as clear as any balance-sheet that I am not. Whereupon followed the second shrug.
当牧师走向洛伊克时，任何仔细观察他的人都可能会看到他两次耸肩。我认为，很少有拥有这种姿态的英国人​​从来都不是那种笨重的人——因为担心出现任何相反的笨拙的例子，我会说，几乎从来没有；她们通常脾气很好，对男人（包括她们自己）的小错误有很大的容忍度。牧师正在进行一场内心对话，他告诉自己，弗雷德和玛丽·加斯之间可能除了老玩伴的尊重之外还有更多的东西，并回答了一个问题，对于那个粗鲁的人来说，那一点女性气质是否不是一个很好的选择？年轻的绅士。对此的反驳是第一个耸肩。然后他嘲笑自己，因为他可能会感到嫉妒，好像他是一个能够结婚的男人，他补充说，这就像任何资产负债表一样清楚，我不是。接下来是第二次耸肩。

What could two men, so different from each other, see in this ‘brown patch,’ as Mary called herself? It was certainly not her plainness that attracted them (and let all plain young ladies be warned against the dangerous encouragement given them by Society to confide in their want of beauty). A human being in this aged nation of ours is a very wonderful whole, the slow creation of long interchanging influences: and charm is a result of two such wholes, the one loving and the one loved.
两个截然不同的男人在这片玛丽自称的“棕色地带”中能看到什么？吸引她们的当然不是她的朴素（并警告所有朴素的年轻女士，不要让社会鼓励她们吐露自己对美丽的渴望）。在我们这个古老的国家里，人类是一个非常奇妙的整体，是长期相互影响的缓慢创造：而魅力是两个这样的整体的结果，即爱的人和被爱的人。

When Mr. and Mrs. Garth were sitting alone, Caleb said, ‘Susan, guess what I’m thinking of.’
当加斯先生和夫人单独坐着时，凯勒布说：“苏珊，猜猜我在想什么。”

‘The rotation of crops,’ said Mrs. Garth, smiling at him, above her knitting, ‘or else the back-doors of the Tipton cottages.’
“轮作庄稼，”加思太太在她的针织品上方对他微笑着说，“或者是蒂普顿小屋的后门。”

‘No,’ said Caleb, gravely; ‘I am thinking that I could do a great turn for Fred Vincy. Christy’s gone, Alfred will be gone soon, and it will be five years before Jim is ready to take to business. I shall want help, and Fred might come in and learn the nature of things and act under me, and it might be the making of him into a useful man, if he gives up being a parson. What do you think?’
“不，”凯莱布严肃地说。 “我想我可以为弗雷德·文西带来伟大的转变。克里斯蒂走了，阿尔弗雷德也很快就会离开，而吉姆还需要五年时间才能准备好开展业务。我需要帮助，弗雷德可能会进来了解事物的本质并在我的领导下行动，如果他放弃当牧师的话，这可能会让他成为一个有用的人。你怎么认为？'

‘I think, there is hardly anything honest that his family would object to more,’ said Mrs. Garth, decidedly.
“我认为，没有什么诚实的事情会比他的家人更反对的了，”加斯夫人斩钉截铁地说。

‘What care I about their objecting?’ said Caleb, with a sturdiness which he was apt to show when he had an opinion. ‘The lad is of age and must get his bread. He has sense enough and quickness enough; he likes being on the land, and it’s my belief that he could learn business well if he gave his mind to it.’
“我关心他们的反对意见吗？”迦勒说道，他的态度很坚定，当他有意见时，他就会表现出这种态度。 ‘这小伙子已经成年了，必须得到他的面包。他有足够的判断力和足够的敏捷性；他喜欢在这片土地上，我相信，如果他下定决心，他一定能学好经商。”

‘But would he? His father and mother wanted him to be a fine gentleman, and I think he has the same sort of feeling himself. They all think us beneath them. And if the proposal came from you, I am sure Mrs. Vincy would say that we wanted Fred for Mary.’
“但是他会吗？他的父母希望他成为一名优秀的绅士，我想他自己也有同样的感觉。他们都认为我们比他们低。如果这个提议是你提出的，我相信文西夫人会说我们想要弗雷德代替玛丽。

‘Life is a poor tale, if it is to be settled by nonsense of that sort,’ said Caleb, with disgust.
“如果用这种无稽之谈来解决的话，生活就是一个糟糕的故事，”凯莱布厌恶地说。

‘Yes, but there is a certain pride which is proper, Caleb.’
“是的，但是有一定的自豪感是适当的，迦勒。”

‘I call it improper pride to let fools’ notions hinder you from doing a good action. There’s no sort of work,’ said Caleb, with fervor, putting out his hand and moving it up and down to mark his emphasis, ‘that could ever be done well, if you minded what fools say. You must have it inside you that your plan is right, and that plan you must follow.’
‘让愚人的观念阻碍你做好事，我称之为不正当的骄傲。没有什么工作可以做得好，”凯莱布热情地说，伸出手，上下移动以强调他的重点，“如果你介意傻瓜的话，那是不可能做好的。你内心必须确信你的计划是正确的，并且你必须遵循该计划。

‘I will not oppose any plan you have set your mind on, Caleb,’ said Mrs. Garth, who was a firm woman, but knew that there were some points on which her mild husband was yet firmer. ‘Still, it seems to be fixed that Fred is to go back to college: will it not be better to wait and see what he will choose to do after that? It is not easy to keep people against their will. And you are not yet quite sure enough of your own position, or what you will want.’
“我不会反对你所下定决心的任何计划，凯莱布。”加思夫人说。她是一位坚定的女人，但她知道在某些问题上她温和的丈夫更加坚定。 “不过，弗雷德重返大学似乎已成定局：等待看看他之后会选择做什么不是更好吗？”违背人们的意愿留住他们并不容易。而且你还不太确定自己的立场，或者你想要什么。

‘Well, it may be better to wait a bit. But as to my getting plenty of work for two, I’m pretty sure of that. I’ve always had my hands full with scattered things, and there’s always something fresh turning up. Why, only yesterday—bless me, I don’t think I told you!—it was rather odd that two men should have been at me on different sides to do the same bit of valuing. And who do you think they were?’ said Caleb, taking a pinch of snuff and holding it up between his fingers, as if it were a part of his exposition. He was fond of a pinch when it occurred to him, but he usually forgot that this indulgence was at his command.
‘嗯，稍微等一下可能会更好。但至于我会为两个人做很多工作，我对此非常确定。我的手上总是堆满了零散的东西，但总有新鲜的东西出现。为什么，就在昨天——上帝保佑我，我想我没有告诉过你！——两个人从不同的角度对我进行同样的评价，这很奇怪。你认为他们是谁？”凯勒布说，他吸了一小撮鼻烟，用手指夹住，仿佛这是他的阐述的一部分。当他想到这一点时，他喜欢捏一捏，但他通常忘记了这种放纵是由他控制的。

His wife held down her knitting and looked attentive.
他的妻子低着头，一脸专注的样子。

‘Why, that Rigg, or Rigg Featherstone, was one. But Bulstrode was before him, so I’m going to do it for Bulstrode. Whether it’s mortgage or purchase they’re going for, I can’t tell yet.’
“哦，那个里格，或者说里格·费瑟斯通，就是其中之一。但布尔斯特罗德在他之前，所以我将为布尔斯特罗德做这件事。他们想要的是抵押贷款还是购买，我还不能确定。

‘Can that man be going to sell the land just left him—which he has taken the name for?’ said Mrs. Garth.
“那个人会卖掉他刚刚离开的那块土地吗——他以此命名的土地？”加斯夫人说。

‘Deuce knows,’ said Caleb, who never referred the knowledge of discreditable doings to any higher power than the deuce. ‘But Bulstrode has long been wanting to get a handsome bit of land under his fingers—that I know. And it’s a difficult matter to get, in this part of the country.’
“Deuce 知道，”凯莱布说，他从未将有关不光彩行为的知识提交给任何比 Deuce 更高的权力。 “但布尔斯特罗德长期以来一直想在他的手指下获得一块可观的土地——这一点我知道。在这个国家的这个地区，这是一件很难得到的事情。

Caleb scattered his snuff carefully instead of taking it, and then added, ‘The ins and outs of things are curious. Here is the land they’ve been all along expecting for Fred, which it seems the old man never meant to leave him a foot of, but left it to this side-slip of a son that he kept in the dark, and thought of his sticking there and vexing everybody as well as he could have vexed ‘em himself if he could have kept alive. I say, it would be curious if it got into Bulstrode’s hands after all. The old man hated him, and never would bank with him.’
迦勒没有接过鼻烟，而是小心翼翼地散开，然后补充道：“事情的来龙去脉都很奇怪。”这里就是他们一直期待着弗雷德的土地，看来老人从来没有打算离开他一英尺，而是把它留给了这个被他蒙在鼓里的儿子，他想到了他坚持在那里，让每个人都烦恼不已，如果他能活下去的话，他自己也会让他们烦恼。我说，如果它最终落入布尔斯特罗德手中，那就奇怪了。老人讨厌他，永远不会和他一起存钱。

‘What reason could the miserable creature have for hating a man whom he had nothing to do with?’ said Mrs. Garth.
“这个可怜的家伙有什么理由去憎恨一个与他毫无关系的人呢？”加斯太太说道。

‘Pooh! where’s the use of asking for such fellows’ reasons? The soul of man,’ said Caleb, with the deep tone and grave shake of the head which always came when he used this phrase—‘The soul of man, when it gets fairly rotten, will bear you all sorts of poisonous toad-stools, and no eye can see whence came the seed thereof.’
'呸！问这种人的理由有什么用呢？人的灵魂，”凯莱布说，他用这句话时总是用低沉的语调和严肃的摇头——“人的灵魂，当它变得相当腐烂时，会给你带来各种有毒的毒菌” ，没有人能看到它的种子从何而来。

It was one of Caleb’s quaintnesses, that in his difficulty of finding speech for his thought, he caught, as it were, snatches of diction which he associated with various points of view or states of mind; and whenever he had a feeling of awe, he was haunted by a sense of Biblical phraseology, though he could hardly have given a strict quotation.
迦勒的怪异之处之一是，在他难以找到表达自己思想的语言时，他可以说捕捉到了一些与不同观点或心理状态相关的措辞片段。每当他产生敬畏之情时，他就会被圣经的措辞所困扰，尽管他几乎无法给出严格的引用。

CHAPTER XLI
第 XLI 章

‘By swaggering could I never thrive,
‘如果我趾高气扬，我永远无法成长，

For the rain it raineth every day.
因为雨，所以每天都下雨。

—Twelfth Night
-第十二夜

The transactions referred to by Caleb Garth as having gone forward between Mr. Bulstrode and Mr. Joshua Rigg Featherstone concerning the land attached to Stone Court, had occasioned the interchange of a letter or two between these personages.
卡莱布·加思提到，布尔斯特罗德先生和约书亚·里格·费瑟斯通先生之间就斯通法院附属土地进行的交易，导致这些人物之间交换了一两封信。

Who shall tell what may be the effect of writing? If it happens to have been cut in stone, though it lie face down-most for ages on a forsaken beach, or ‘rest quietly under the drums and tramplings of many conquests,’ it may end by letting us into the secret of usurpations and other scandals gossiped about long empires ago:— this world being apparently a huge whispering-gallery. Such conditions are often minutely represented in our petty lifetimes. As the stone which has been kicked by generations of clowns may come by curious little links of effect under the eyes of a scholar, through whose labors it may at last fix the date of invasions and unlock religions, so a bit of ink and paper which has long been an innocent wrapping or stop-gap may at last be laid open under the one pair of eyes which have knowledge enough to turn it into the opening of a catastrophe. To Uriel watching the progress of planetary history from the sun, the one result would be just as much of a coincidence as the other.
谁能告诉我写作的效果是什么？如果它碰巧是用石头凿成的，尽管它在被遗弃的海滩上长时间面朝下躺着，或者“在许多征服的鼓声和践踏下安静地休息”，它最终可能会让我们了解篡夺和掠夺的秘密。其他关于很久以前的帝国的丑闻也有八卦：——这个世界显然是一个巨大的回音壁。这些情况常常在我们渺小的一生中得到细致的体现。正如几代小丑踢过的石头可能会在学者的眼皮底下产生奇怪的小连锁效应，通过学者的努力，它最终可能确定入侵的日期并解锁宗教，所以一点墨水和纸长期以来，一种无辜的包装或权宜之计可能最终会在一双拥有足够知识的眼睛下被打开，从而将其变成一场灾难的开端。对于从太阳观察行星历史进程的乌列来说，其中一个结果与另一个结果一样都是巧合。

Having made this rather lofty comparison I am less uneasy in calling attention to the existence of low people by whose interference, however little we may like it, the course of the world is very much determined. It would be well, certainly, if we could help to reduce their number, and something might perhaps be done by not lightly giving occasion to their existence. Socially speaking, Joshua Rigg would have been generally pronounced a superfluity. But those who like Peter Featherstone never had a copy of themselves demanded, are the very last to wait for such a request either in prose or verse. The copy in this case bore more of outside resemblance to the mother, in whose sex frog-features, accompanied with fresh-colored cheeks and a well-rounded figure, are compatible with much charm for a certain order of admirers. The result is sometimes a frog-faced male, desirable, surely, to no order of intelligent beings. Especially when he is suddenly brought into evidence to frustrate other people’s expectations— the very lowest aspect in which a social superfluity can present himself.
做了这个相当崇高的比较后，我就不再那么不安地呼吁人们注意低等人的存在，无论我们多么不喜欢他们的干预，世界的进程在很大程度上是决定性的。当然，如果我们能够帮助减少它们的数量，那就太好了，并且通过不轻易给予它们的存在或许可以做一些事情。从社会角度来说，约书亚·里格通常会被认为是多余的。但那些像彼得·费瑟斯通这样的人从来没有被要求得到一份自己的副本，他们是最后一个等待散文或诗歌形式的请求的人。在这种情况下，复制品在外表上与母亲更加相似，其性感的青蛙特征，伴随着鲜红的脸颊和圆润的身材，对于某些崇拜者来说具有很大的魅力。其结果有时是一个青蛙脸的男性，当然，对任何智慧生物来说都是令人向往的。尤其是当他突然被证明是为了挫败别人的期望时——这是社会过剩所能表现出来的最低级的方面。

But Mr. Rigg Featherstone’s low characteristics were all of the sober, water-drinking kind. From the earliest to the latest hour of the day he was always as sleek, neat, and cool as the frog he resembled, and old Peter had secretly chuckled over an offshoot almost more calculating, and far more imperturbable, than himself. I will add that his finger-nails were scrupulously attended to, and that he meant to marry a well-educated young lady (as yet unspecified) whose person was good, and whose connections, in a solid middle-class way, were undeniable. Thus his nails and modesty were comparable to those of most gentlemen; though his ambition had been educated only by the opportunities of a clerk and accountant in the smaller commercial houses of a seaport. He thought the rural Featherstones very simple absurd people, and they in their turn regarded his ‘bringing up’ in a seaport town as an exaggeration of the monstrosity that their brother Peter, and still more Peter’s property, should have had such belongings.
但里格·费瑟斯通先生的卑微特征都是清醒、爱喝水的类型。从一天中最早的时刻到最后时刻，他总是像青蛙一样光滑、整洁、冷静，老彼得对这个比他自己更精于算计、更冷静的分支暗暗窃笑。我要补充一点，他的指甲受到了严格的照料，他打算娶一位受过良好教育的年轻女士（尚未具体说明），她的人品很好，而且她的关系，以稳固的中产阶级方式，是不可否认的。因此，他的指甲和谦虚可以与大多数绅士相媲美。尽管他的雄心壮志只是通过在海港较小的商业公司担任职员和会计师的机会而实现的。他认为乡村的费瑟斯通一家都是非常简单荒唐的人，而他们反过来也认为他在海港小镇“长大”是对他们的兄弟彼得，尤其是彼得的财产应该拥有这样的财产的怪物的夸张。

The garden and gravel approach, as seen from the two windows of the wainscoted parlor at Stone Court, were never in better trim than now, when Mr. Rigg Featherstone stood, with his hands behind him, looking out on these grounds as their master. But it seemed doubtful whether he looked out for the sake of contemplation or of turning his back to a person who stood in the middle of the room, with his legs considerably apart and his hands in his trouser-pockets: a person in all respects a contrast to the sleek and cool Rigg. He was a man obviously on the way towards sixty, very florid and hairy, with much gray in his bushy whiskers and thick curly hair, a stoutish body which showed to disadvantage the somewhat worn joinings of his clothes, and the air of a swaggerer, who would aim at being noticeable even at a show of fireworks, regarding his own remarks on any other person’s performance as likely to be more interesting than the performance itself.
从斯通庭院壁板客厅的两扇窗户望去，花园和碎石路的景色从未像现在这样整齐，里格·费瑟斯通先生双手放在身后站着，以主人的身份眺望着这片土地。但似乎令人怀疑的是，他是否是为了沉思而向外看，还是为了背对着站在房间中央的一个人，他的双腿分开得很远，双手插在裤兜里：从各方面来看，这是一个人与时尚酷炫的 Rigg 形成鲜明对比。他是个明显快六十岁的男人，脸色红润，毛茸茸的，浓密的胡须和浓密的卷发已经灰白，身材粗壮，衣服的接缝处有些破旧，一副大摇大摆的样子，即使在烟花表演中，他也希望自己能引人注目，认为自己对任何其他人的表演的评论可能比表演本身更有趣。

His name was John Raffles, and he sometimes wrote jocosely W.A.G. after his signature, observing when he did so, that he was once taught by Leonard Lamb of Finsbury who wrote B.A. after his name, and that he, Raffles, originated the witticism of calling that celebrated principal Ba-Lamb. Such were the appearance and mental flavor of Mr. Raffles, both of which seemed to have a stale odor of travellers’ rooms in the commercial hotels of that period.
他的名字叫约翰·莱佛士 (John Raffles)，有时他会开玩笑地写下“W.A.G.”。在他签名后，观察他这样做的时候，他曾经受过芬斯伯里的伦纳德·兰姆 (Leonard Lamb) 的教导，后者撰写了 B.A.以他的名字命名，而他，莱佛士，发明了一个俏皮话，称这位著名的校长为“巴兰姆”。这就是莱佛士先生的外表和精神气质，两者似乎都带有当时商业酒店旅客房间的陈旧气味。

‘Come, now, Josh,’ he was saying, in a full rumbling tone, ‘look at it in this light: here is your poor mother going into the vale of years, and you could afford something handsome now to make her comfortable.’
“来吧，乔希，”他用一种隆隆的语气说道，“从这个角度来看：你可怜的母亲正在步入老年，你现在可以买一些漂亮的东西让她舒服了。 '

‘Not while you live. Nothing would make her comfortable while you live,’ returned Rigg, in his cool high voice. ‘What I give her, you’ll take.’
‘当你活着的时候就不会。你活着的时候，没有什么能让她感到舒服。”里格用他冷静的高亢声音回答道。 “我给她什么，你就接受什么。”

‘You bear me a grudge, Josh, that I know. But come, now—as between man and man—without humbug—a little capital might enable me to make a first-rate thing of the shop. The tobacco trade is growing. I should cut my own nose off in not doing the best I could at it. I should stick to it like a flea to a fleece for my own sake. I should always be on the spot. And nothing would make your poor mother so happy. I’ve pretty well done with my wild oats— turned fifty-five. I want to settle down in my chimney-corner. And if I once buckled to the tobacco trade, I could bring an amount of brains and experience to bear on it that would not be found elsewhere in a hurry. I don’t want to be bothering you one time after another, but to get things once for all into the right channel. Consider that, Josh—as between man and man—and with your poor mother to be made easy for her life. I was always fond of the old woman, by Jove!’
“乔什，我知道你对我怀恨在心。但是来吧，现在——作为人与人之间的——没有欺骗——一点点资本可能会让我把商店做成一流的东西。烟草贸易正在增长。如果我没有尽力而为，我就应该割断自己的鼻子。为了我自己，我应该像跳蚤粘着羊毛一样坚持下去。我应该永远在现场。没有什么能让你可怜的母亲如此高兴。我已经五十五岁了，我的野燕麦已经做得很好了。我想在我的烟囱角落安顿下来。如果我一旦投身于烟草贸易，我可以带来大量的智慧和经验来承担这方面的工作，而这些在其他地方是不会很快找到的。我不想一次又一次地打扰你，而是想让事情一次性地进入正确的轨道。考虑一下，乔希——在人与人之间——以及让你可怜的母亲过上轻松的生活。我一直很喜欢那个老太婆，天啊！”

‘Have you done?’ said Mr. Rigg, quietly, without looking away from the window.
“你做完了吗？”里格先生低声说道，眼睛始终没有离开窗户。

‘Yes, I’ve done,’ said Raffles, taking hold of his hat which stood before him on the table, and giving it a sort of oratorical push.
“是的，我已经做到了，”莱佛士说道，他抓住了面前桌子上的帽子，用一种演讲式的方式推了一下它。

‘Then just listen to me. The more you say anything, the less I shall believe it. The more you want me to do a thing, the more reason I shall have for never doing it. Do you think I mean to forget your kicking me when I was a lad, and eating all the best victual away from me and my mother? Do you think I forget your always coming home to sell and pocket everything, and going off again leaving us in the lurch? I should be glad to see you whipped at the cart-tail. My mother was a fool to you: she’d no right to give me a father-in-law, and she’s been punished for it. She shall have her weekly allowance paid and no more: and that shall be stopped if you dare to come on to these premises again, or to come into this country after me again. The next time you show yourself inside the gates here, you shall be driven off with the dogs and the wagoner’s whip.’
‘那就听我说吧。你越说我就越不相信。你越想让我做一件事，我就越有理由不做它。你认为我会忘记当我还是个小伙子时你踢我，忘记我和我母亲吃掉所有最好的食物吗？你以为我会忘记你总是回家卖掉所有东西并装进口袋，然后又离开，让我们陷入困境吗？我应该很高兴看到你被车尾鞭打。我母亲对你来说就是个傻瓜：她没有权利给我找个岳父，而且她还因此受到了惩罚。她每周的津贴将得到支付，不再有：如果你敢再次来到这些场所，或者再次跟随我进入这个国家，那么这将被停止。下次你再进这里的大门时，你就会被狗和车夫的鞭子赶走。

As Rigg pronounced the last words he turned round and looked at Raffles with his prominent frozen eyes. The contrast was as striking as it could have been eighteen years before, when Rigg was a most unengaging kickable boy, and Raffles was the rather thick-set Adonis of bar-rooms and back-parlors. But the advantage now was on the side of Rigg, and auditors of this conversation might probably have expected that Raffles would retire with the air of a defeated dog. Not at all. He made a grimace which was habitual with him whenever he was ‘out’ in a game; then subsided into a laugh, and drew a brandy-flask from his pocket.
当里格说出最后一句话时，他转过身来，用他突出的冰冷的眼睛看着莱佛士。这种对比与十八年前一样引人注目，当时里格是一个最不讨人喜欢的可踢男孩，而莱佛士则是酒吧和后客厅里相当厚重的阿多尼斯。但现在的优势在里格一边，这次谈话的旁听者可能已经预料到莱佛士会像一只被打败的狗一样退休。一点也不。每当他在比赛中“出局”时，他就会做出鬼脸，这是他的习惯。然后笑了起来，从口袋里掏出一个白兰地瓶。

‘Come, Josh,’ he said, in a cajoling tone, ‘give us a spoonful of brandy, and a sovereign to pay the way back, and I’ll go. Honor bright! I’ll go like a bullet, BY Jove!’
“来吧，乔希，”他用哄骗的语气说道，“给我们一勺白兰地，还有一个金镑作为还款，我就走。”荣誉璀璨！我会像子弹一样前进，天哪！

‘Mind,’ said Rigg, drawing out a bunch of keys, ‘if I ever see you again, I shan’t speak to you. I don’t own you any more than if I saw a crow; and if you want to own me you’ll get nothing by it but a character for being what you are—a spiteful, brassy, bullying rogue.’
“注意，”里格抽出一串钥匙说道，“如果我再见到你，我不会和你说话。”我不再拥有你，就像我看到一只乌鸦一样；如果你想拥有我，你除了得到一个你本来的样子——一个恶毒、粗暴、欺凌无赖的流氓之外，什么也得不到。

‘That’s a pity, now, Josh,’ said Raffles, affecting to scratch his head and wrinkle his brows upward as if he were nonplussed. ‘I’m very fond of you; BY Jove, I am! There’s nothing I like better than plaguing you—you’re so like your mother, and I must do without it. But the brandy and the sovereign’s a bargain.’
“现在真可惜，乔希，”莱佛士说，假装抓着头，向上皱起眉毛，好像很困惑。 ‘我非常喜欢你；乔夫，我是！没有什么比困扰你更让我喜欢的了——你太像你的母亲了，而我必须摆脱它。但白兰地和主权很便宜。

He jerked forward the flask and Rigg went to a fine old oaken bureau with his keys. But Raffles had reminded himself by his movement with the flask that it had become dangerously loose from its leather covering, and catching sight of a folded paper which had fallen within the fender, he took it up and shoved it under the leather so as to make the glass firm.
他猛地把酒瓶向前推进，里格带着钥匙走到一个精美的旧橡木办公桌前。但莱佛士通过他对烧瓶的动作提醒自己，它已经从皮革覆盖物上松脱了，这是危险的，他看到一张折叠纸掉在挡泥板里，他把它捡起来，把它推到皮革下面，以便使玻璃公司。

By that time Rigg came forward with a brandy-bottle, filled the flask, and handed Raffles a sovereign, neither looking at him nor speaking to him. After locking up the bureau again, he walked to the window and gazed out as impassibly as he had done at the beginning of the interview, while Raffles took a small allowance from the flask, screwed it up, and deposited it in his side-pocket, with provoking slowness, making a grimace at his stepson’s back.
这时，里格拿着一个白兰地瓶走上前来，装满了瓶子，递给莱佛士一枚金镑，既没有看他，也没有和他说话。再次锁上写字台后，他走到窗前，像采访开始时一样冷漠地凝视着窗外，而莱佛士则从烧瓶中取出一小笔钱，拧紧，然后将其放入侧袋中。 ，动作缓慢得令人发指，对着继子的背影做了个鬼脸。

‘Farewell, Josh—and if forever!’ said Raffles, turning back his head as he opened the door.
“永别了，乔希——永别了！”莱佛士打开门时转过头说道。

Rigg saw him leave the grounds and enter the lane. The gray day had turned to a light drizzling rain, which freshened the hedgerows and the grassy borders of the by-roads, and hastened the laborers who were loading the last shocks of corn. Raffles, walking with the uneasy gait of a town loiterer obliged to do a bit of country journeying on foot, looked as incongruous amid this moist rural quiet and industry as if he had been a baboon escaped from a menagerie. But there were none to stare at him except the long-weaned calves, and none to show dislike of his appearance except the little water-rats which rustled away at his approach.
里格看到他离开场地进入球道。灰蒙蒙的天变成了毛毛细雨，使树篱和小路的草丛变得清新，让正在装载最后一批玉米的工人加快了速度。莱佛士的步态不安，就像一个镇上闲逛的人，不得不步行去乡村旅行，在这潮湿的乡村安静和工业中显得格格不入，就像他是一只从动物园里逃出来的狒狒一样。但除了断奶已久的小牛之外，没有人盯着他看；除了在他走近时窸窸窣窣地走开的小水鼠外，没有人对他的外表表现出厌恶。

He was fortunate enough when he got on to the highroad to be overtaken by the stage-coach, which carried him to Brassing; and there he took the new-made railway, observing to his fellow-passengers that he considered it pretty well seasoned now it had done for Huskisson. Mr. Raffles on most occasions kept up the sense of having been educated at an academy, and being able, if he chose, to pass well everywhere; indeed, there was not one of his fellow-men whom he did not feel himself in a position to ridicule and torment, confident of the entertainment which he thus gave to all the rest of the company.
他很幸运，当他上了公路时，驿站马车超越了他，把他带到了布拉辛。在那里，他乘坐了新修的铁路，他对其他乘客说，他认为这条铁路现在对赫斯基森来说已经非常成熟了。莱佛士先生在大多数情况下都保持着一种在学院受过教育的感觉，如果他愿意的话，他能够在任何地方取得好成绩。事实上，他觉得自己的同胞无一不是可以嘲笑和折磨的，因为他确信自己可以为公司的其他人带来欢乐。

He played this part now with as much spirit as if his journey had been entirely successful, resorting at frequent intervals to his flask. The paper with which he had wedged it was a letter signed Nicholas Bulstrode, but Raffles was not likely to disturb it from its present useful position.
他现在以极大的精神扮演这个角色，就好像他的旅程完全成功一样，不时地求助于他的烧瓶。他用来楔入的那张纸是一封署名尼古拉斯·布尔斯特罗德的信，但莱佛士不太可能将其从目前有用的位置上扰乱。

CHAPTER XLII
第四十二章

‘How much, methinks, I could despise this man
‘我想，我多么鄙视这个人

Were I not bound in charity against it!
如果我不是出于慈善目的而反对它的​​话！

—SHAKESPEARE: Henry VIII.
——莎士比亚：亨利八世。

One of the professional calls made by Lydgate soon after his return from his wedding-journey was to Lowick Manor, in consequence of a letter which had requested him to fix a time for his visit.
利德盖特从婚礼之旅回来后不久，就接到了一封要求他确定拜访时间的信，于是他打了一个专业电话到洛威克庄园。

Mr. Casaubon had never put any question concerning the nature of his illness to Lydgate, nor had he even to Dorothea betrayed any anxiety as to how far it might be likely to cut short his labors or his life. On this point, as on all others, he shrank from pity; and if the suspicion of being pitied for anything in his lot surmised or known in spite of himself was embittering, the idea of calling forth a show of compassion by frankly admitting an alarm or a sorrow was necessarily intolerable to him. Every proud mind knows something of this experience, and perhaps it is only to be overcome by a sense of fellowship deep enough to make all efforts at isolation seem mean and petty instead of exalting.
卡苏邦先生从来没有向利德盖特提出任何有关他病情的性质的问题，他甚至也没有向多萝西娅流露出任何关于这可能会在多大程度上缩短他的工作或生命的焦虑。在这一点上，就像在其他所有问题上一样，他回避了怜悯。如果他怀疑自己因自己猜测或知道的事情而受到怜悯而感到痛苦，那么通过坦率地承认警报或悲伤来唤起同情心的想法对他来说必然是无法忍受的。每个骄傲的人都对这种经历有所了解，也许只有深深的团契感才能克服这种经历，使所有孤立的努力显得卑鄙和琐碎，而不是令人振奋。

But Mr. Casaubon was now brooding over something through which the question of his health and life haunted his silence with a more harassing importunity even than through the autumnal unripeness of his authorship. It is true that this last might be called his central ambition; but there are some kinds of authorship in which by far the largest result is the uneasy susceptibility accumulated in the consciousness of the author one knows of the river by a few streaks amid a long-gathered deposit of uncomfortable mud. That was the way with Mr. Casaubon’s hard intellectual labors. Their most characteristic result was not the ‘Key to all Mythologies,’ but a morbid consciousness that others did not give him the place which he had not demonstrably merited—a perpetual suspicious conjecture that the views entertained of him were not to his advantage— a melancholy absence of passion in his efforts at achievement, and a passionate resistance to the confession that he had achieved nothing.
但卡苏邦先生现在正沉思着一件事，他的健康和生命问题以一种比他的作者身份在秋季尚未成熟时更令人不安的紧迫感困扰着他的沉默。确实，最后一个可以被称为他的中心野心。但在某些类型的作者身份中，迄今为止最大的结果是，在长期堆积的令人不舒服的泥浆中，有几条条纹，在作者的意识中积累了不安的敏感性，人们知道这条河。这就是卡苏邦先生艰苦的智力劳动的方式。他们最典型的结果不是“所有神话的钥匙”，而是一种病态的意识，认为其他人没有给他一个他显然不配得到的位置——这是一个永远可疑的猜想，认为对他的看法对他不利——一个令人忧郁的是，他在努力取得成就时缺乏热情，并且强烈抵制承认自己一事无成。

Thus his intellectual ambition which seemed to others to have absorbed and dried him, was really no security against wounds, least of all against those which came from Dorothea. And he had begun now to frame possibilities for the future which were somehow more embittering to him than anything his mind had dwelt on before.
因此，在其他人看来，他的学术野心似乎已经吸收并干燥了他，实际上并不能保证他免受伤害，尤其是来自多萝西娅的伤害。他现在开始思考未来的可能性，这对他来说比他以前思考过的任何事情都更加痛苦。

Against certain facts he was helpless: against Will Ladislaw’s existence his defiant stay in the neighborhood of Lowick, and his flippant state of mind with regard to the possessors of authentic, well-stamped erudition: against Dorothea’s nature, always taking on some new shape of ardent activity, and even in submission and silence covering fervid reasons which it was an irritation to think of: against certain notions and likings which had taken possession of her mind in relation to subjects that he could not possibly discuss with her. ‘There was no denying that Dorothea was as virtuous and lovely a young lady as he could have obtained for a wife; but a young lady turned out to be something more troublesome than he had conceived. She nursed him, she read to him, she anticipated his wants, and was solicitous about his feelings; but there had entered into the husband’s mind the certainty that she judged him, and that her wifely devotedness was like a penitential expiation of unbelieving thoughts—was accompanied with a power of comparison by which himself and his doings were seen too luminously as a part of things in general. His discontent passed vapor-like through all her gentle loving manifestations, and clung to that inappreciative world which she had only brought nearer to him.
对于某些事实，他是无能为力的：反对威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的存在，他在洛威克附近的挑衅性停留，以及他对真正的、博学的人的轻率心态：反对多萝西娅的本性，总是采取某种新的形式热情的活动，甚至在服从和沉默中掩盖了令人恼火的激烈理由：反对某些观念和喜好，这些观念和喜好已经占据了她的头脑，与他不可能与她讨论的主题有关。 “不可否认，多萝西娅是一位贤惠、可爱的年轻女士，是他所能找到的妻子。但这位年轻女士却比他想象的更麻烦。她照顾他，给他读书，预见他的需要，关心他的感受。但丈夫心中已经确信，她对他做出了评判，而她对妻子的忠诚就像是对不信思想的忏悔赎罪——伴随着一种比较的力量，通过这种比较，他自己和他的行为被视为光明的一部分。事情一般。他的不满像蒸汽一样通过她所有温柔的爱的表现而消失，并坚持她只是让他更接近的那个不欣赏的世界。

Poor Mr. Casaubon! This suffering was the harder to bear because it seemed like a betrayal: the young creature who had worshipped him with perfect trust had quickly turned into the critical wife; and early instances of criticism and resentment had made an impression which no tenderness and submission afterwards could remove. To his suspicious interpretation Dorothea’s silence now was a suppressed rebellion; a remark from her which he had not in any way anticipated was an assertion of conscious superiority; her gentle answers had an irritating cautiousness in them; and when she acquiesced it was a self-approved effort of forbearance. The tenacity with which he strove to hide this inward drama made it the more vivid for him; as we hear with the more keenness what we wish others not to hear.
可怜的卡苏邦先生！这种痛苦更难以忍受，因为这似乎是一种背叛：曾经对他完全信任的年轻人很快就变成了挑剔的妻子；早期的批评和怨恨给人留下的印象是任何后来的温柔和顺从都无法消除的。根据他可疑的解释，多萝西娅现在的沉默是一种被压抑的叛逆。她的这句话是他完全没有预料到的，这是一种自觉的优越感。她温柔的回答中透着令人恼火的谨慎。当她默许时，这是一种自我认可的克制努力。他顽强地努力隐藏这种内心的戏剧性，这使得它对他来说更加生动。当我们更加敏锐地听到我们不希望别人听到的内容时。

Instead of wondering at this result of misery in Mr. Casaubon, I think it quite ordinary. Will not a tiny speck very close to our vision blot out the glory of the world, and leave only a margin by which we see the blot? I know no speck so troublesome as self. And who, if Mr. Casaubon had chosen to expound his discontents— his suspicions that he was not any longer adored without criticism— could have denied that they were founded on good reasons? On the contrary, there was a strong reason to be added, which he had not himself taken explicitly into account—namely, that he was not unmixedly adorable. He suspected this, however, as he suspected other things, without confessing it, and like the rest of us, felt how soothing it would have been to have a co pan ion who would never find it out.
我并不对卡苏邦先生的这种痛苦结果感到惊讶，而是认为这很平常。离我们的视野很近的一个小斑点，难道不会遮盖世界的荣耀，只留下我们能看到污点的边缘吗？我不知道还有什么比自己更麻烦的了。如果卡苏邦先生选择阐述他的不满——他怀疑自己不再受到批评，那么谁会否认这些不满是有充分理由的呢？相反，有一个强有力的理由要加上去，而他本人并没有明确考虑到这一点——也就是说，他并不是纯粹的可爱。然而，他怀疑这一点，就像他怀疑其他事情一样，但没有承认这一点，而且像我们其他人一样，他觉得如果有一个永远不会发现这一点的伙伴，该是多么令人安慰。

This sore susceptibility in relation to Dorothea was thoroughly prepared before Will Ladislaw had returned to Lowick, and what had occurred since then had brought Mr. Casaubon’s power of suspicious construction into exasperated activity. To all the facts which he knew, he added imaginary facts both present and future which become more real to him than those because they called up a stronger dislike, a more predominating bitterness. Suspicion and jealousy of Will Ladislaw’s intentions, suspicion and jealousy of Dorothea’s impressions, were constantly at their weaving work. It would be quite unjust to him to suppose that he could have entered into any coarse misinterpretation of Dorothea: his own habits of mind and conduct, quite as much as the open elevation of her nature, saved him from any such mistake. What he was jealous of was her opinion, the sway that might be given to her ardent mind in its judgments, and the future possibilities to which these might lead her. As to Will, though until his last defiant letter he had nothing definite which he would choose formally to allege against him, he felt himself warranted in believing that he was capable of any design which could fascinate a rebellious temper and an undisciplined impulsiveness. He was quite sure that Dorothea was the cause of Will’s return from Rome, and his determination to settle in the neighborhood; and he was penetrating enough to imagine that Dorothea had innocently encouraged this course. It was as clear as possible that she was ready to be attached to Will and to be pliant to his suggestions: they had never had a tete-a-tete without her bringing away from it some new troublesome impression, and the last interview that Mr. Casaubon was aware of (Dorothea, on returning from Freshitt Hall, had for the first time been silent about having seen Will) had led to a scene which roused an angrier feeling against them both than he had ever known before. Dorothea’s outpouring of her notions about money, in the darkness of the night, had done nothing but bring a mixture of more odious foreboding into her husband’s mind.
这种与多萝西娅有关的强烈的敏感性在威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫返回洛威克之前就已经做好了充分的准备，而从那时起发生的事情使卡苏邦先生的可疑构造能力变得令人恼火。除了他所知道的所有事实之外，他还添加了现在和未来的想象事实，这些事实对他来说变得更加真实，因为它们引起了更强烈的厌恶，更强烈的痛苦。对威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的意图的怀疑和嫉妒，对多萝西娅印象的怀疑和嫉妒，一直存在于他们的编织工作中。如果他认为自己可能对多萝西娅产生任何粗俗的误解，那就太不公平了：他自己的思维和行为习惯，以及她公开的本性，使他免于犯任何这样的错误。他嫉妒的是她的意见，嫉妒她热心的判断可能产生的影响，以及这些可能引导她走向未来的可能性。至于威尔，虽然直到他写最后一封挑衅性的信之前，他还没有明确地选择正式指控他，但他觉得自己有理由相信，他有能力做出任何能够激起叛逆脾气和不守纪律的冲动的计划。他非常确信多萝西娅是威尔从罗马返回并决定在附近定居的原因；他的洞察力足以想象多萝西娅天真地鼓励了这种做法。尽可能清楚地表明，她已经准备好依附于威尔，并愿意听从他的建议：他们从来没有进行过面对面的交谈，而她却没有从中消除一些新的麻烦印象，而上次采访时，先生。 卡索邦知道（多萝西娅从弗雷西特庄园回来后，第一次对见到威尔保持沉默）导致了一场场面，激起了他对他们俩比以前更愤怒的感觉。多萝西娅在漆黑的夜里倾诉了她对金钱的看法，除了给她丈夫的心里带来了一种更令人厌恶的预感之外，没有任何作用。

And there was the shock lately given to his health always sadly present with him. He was certainly much revived; he had recovered all his usual power of work: the illness might have been mere fatigue, and there might still be twenty years of achievement before him, which would justify the thirty years of preparation. That prospect was made the sweeter by a flavor of vengeance against the hasty sneers of Carp & Company; for even when Mr. Casaubon was carrying his taper among the tombs of the past, those modern figures came athwart the dim light, and interrupted his diligent exploration. To convince Carp of his mistake, so that he would have to eat his own words with a good deal of indigestion, would be an agreeable accident of triumphant authorship, which the prospect of living to future ages on earth and to all eternity in heaven could not exclude from contemplation. Since, thus, the prevision of his own unending bliss could not nullify the bitter savors of irritated jealousy and vindictiveness, it is the less surprising that the probability of a transient earthly bliss for other persons, when he himself should have entered into glory, had not a potently sweetening effect. If the truth should be that some undermining disease was at work within him, there might be large opportunity for some people to be the happier when he was gone; and if one of those people should be Will Ladislaw, Mr. Casaubon objected so strongly that it seemed as if the annoyance would make part of his disembodied existence.
最近他的健康状况受到的打击总是令人悲伤地伴随着他。他确实精神焕发了很多。他已经恢复了所有平常的工作能力：疾病可能只是疲劳，而且他面前可能还有二十年的成就，这将证明三十年的准备是值得的。由于对卡普公司仓促的冷笑的报复，这种前景变得更加甜蜜。因为即使当卡苏邦先生提着蜡烛在过去的坟墓中穿行时，那些现代人物也挡住了昏暗的光线，打断了他勤奋的探索。让卡普承认自己的错误，这样他就不得不因严重消化不良而吃掉自己的话，这将是作者胜利的一个令人愉快的意外，而在地球上活到未来的岁月和在天堂里永远的永恒的前景可以实现这一点。不排除在思考之外。因此，既然他对自己永无休止的幸福的预见无法消除恼怒的嫉妒和报复的苦味，那么当他自己本应进入荣耀时，为其他人带来短暂的尘世幸福的可能性却不足为奇。没有有效的甜味作用。如果事实是他体内有某种破坏性的疾病在起作用，那么当他去世时，一些人可能会有很大的机会变得更快乐；如果其中一个人是威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫，卡苏邦先生会强烈反对，以至于这种烦恼似乎会成为他无形存在的一部分。

This is a very bare and therefore a very incomplete way of putting the case. The human soul moves in many channels, and Mr. Casaubon, we know, had a sense of rectitude and an honorable pride in satisfying the requirements of honor, which compelled him to find other reasons for his conduct than those of jealousy and vindictiveness. The way in which Mr. Casaubon put the case was this:—‘In marrying Dorothea Brooke I had to care for her well-being in case of my death. But well-being is not to be secured by ample, independent possession of property; on the contrary, occasions might arise in which such possession might expose her to the more danger. She is ready prey to any man who knows how to play adroitly either on her affectionate ardor or her Quixotic enthusiasm; and a man stands by with that very intention in his mind—a man with no other principle than transient caprice, and who has a personal animosity towards me— I am sure of it—an animosity which is fed by the consciousness of his ingratitude, and which he has constantly vented in ridicule of which I am as well assured as if I had heard it. Even if I live I shall not be without uneasiness as to what he may attempt through indirect influence. This man has gained Dorothea’s ear: he has fascinated her attention; he has evidently tried to impress her mind with the notion that he has claims beyond anything I have done for him. If I die—and he is waiting here on the watch for that— he will persuade her to marry him. That would be calamity for her and success for him. SHE would not think it calamity: he would make her believe anything; she has a tendency to immoderate attachment which she inwardly reproaches me for not responding to, and already her mind is occupied with his fortunes. He thinks of an easy conquest and of entering into my nest. That I will hinder! Such a marriage would be fatal to Dorothea. Has he ever persisted in anything except from contradiction? In knowledge he has always tried to be showy at small cost. In religion he could be, as long as it suited him, the facile echo of Dorothea’s vagaries. When was sciolism ever dissociated from laxity? I utterly distrust his morals, and it is my duty to hinder to the utmost the fulfilment of his designs.’
这是一种非常简单、因此也是非常不完整的阐述方式。人类的灵魂通过多种渠道流动，我们知道，卡苏邦先生有一种正直感和满足荣誉要求的光荣自豪感，这迫使他为自己的行为寻找其他理由，而不是嫉妒和报复。卡苏邦先生的说法是这样的：“在与多萝西娅·布鲁克结婚时，我必须关心她的福祉，以防我去世。”但幸福并不是靠拥有充足、独立的财产来保证的；相反，这种占有可能会使她面临更大的危险。她随时准备成为任何懂得如何巧妙地发挥她的深情热情或堂吉诃德式热情的男人的猎物。一个人站在一旁，心里怀着同样的意图——一个除了短暂的任性之外没有其他原则的人，他对我怀有个人的敌意——我确信这一点——这种敌意是由他的忘恩负义的意识所助长的，他不断地嘲笑我，我对此确信无疑，就好像我听到了一样。即使我还活着，我也会对他可能通过间接影响进行的尝试感到不安。这个男人赢得了多萝西娅的注意：他吸引了她的注意力；显然，他试图让她相信，他所拥有的权利超出了我为他所做的一切。如果我死了——他就在这里守候——他会说服她嫁给他。这对她来说是灾难，对他来说是成功。她不会认为这是灾难：他会让她相信任何事情；他会让她相信任何事。她有一种过度依恋的倾向，她内心责备我没有回应，而她的心思已经被他的命运占据了。 他想到了轻松征服并进入我的巢穴。我会阻碍！这样的婚姻对多萝西娅来说是致命的。除了矛盾之外，他还坚持过什么吗？在知识方面，他总是试图以较小的代价来表现自己。在宗教上，只要适合他，他就可以成为多萝西娅变幻莫测的简单回声。科学主义什么时候曾与松懈脱节过？我完全不信任他的道德，我有责任最大限度地阻碍他的计划的实现。’

The arrangements made by Mr. Casaubon on his marriage left strong measures open to him, but in ruminating on them his mind inevitably dwelt so much on the probabilities of his own life that the longing to get the nearest possible calculation had at last overcome his proud reticence, and had determined him to ask Lydgate’s opinion as to the nature of his illness.
卡苏邦先生对他的婚姻所做的安排让他可以采取强有力的措施，但在深思熟虑的过程中，他不可避免地过多地思考自己的生活的可能性，以至于想要得到最接近的可能计算的渴望最终战胜了他的骄傲。他保持沉默，并决定就自己病情的性质询问利德盖特的意见。

He had mentioned to Dorothea that Lydgate was coming by appointment at half-past three, and in answer to her anxious question, whether he had felt ill, replied,—‘No, I merely wish to have his opinion concerning some habitual symptoms. You need not see him, my dear. I shall give orders that he may be sent to me in the Yew-tree Walk, where I shall be taking my usual exercise.’
他曾向多萝西娅提到，利德盖特将于三点半按约来，在回答她焦急的问题，即他是否感到不舒服时，他回答说：“不，我只是想听听他对一些习惯性症状的看法。”你不必见他，亲爱的。我将下令将他送到紫杉树步道来找我，我将在那里进行平常的锻炼。

When Lydgate entered the Yew-tree Walk he saw Mr. Casaubon slowly receding with his hands behind him according to his habit, and his head bent forward. It was a lovely afternoon; the leaves from the lofty limes were falling silently across the sombre evergreens, while the lights and shadows slept side by side: there was no sound but the cawing of the rooks, which to the accustomed ear is a lullaby, or that last solemn lullaby, a dirge. Lydgate, conscious of an energetic frame in its prime, felt some compassion when the figure which he was likely soon to overtake turned round, and in advancing towards him showed more markedly than ever the signs of premature age—the student’s bent shoulders, the emaciated limbs, and the melancholy lines of the mouth. ‘Poor fellow,’ he thought, ‘some men with his years are like lions; one can tell nothing of their age except that they are full grown.’
当利德盖特走进红豆杉步道时，他看到卡苏邦先生按照习惯，双手放在身后，慢慢地后退，头向前倾。那是一个美好的下午；高大的椴树上的叶子静静地落在阴暗的常青树上，而光和影并肩沉睡：除了白嘴鸦的叫声，没有任何声音，对于习惯的耳朵来说，这是一首摇篮曲，或者是最后一首庄严的摇篮曲，一首挽歌。利德盖特意识到自己正处于巅峰时期，精力充沛，当那个他可能很快就会超越的人影转过身来，向他走来时，他比以往任何时候都更明显地表现出过早衰老的迹象——学生弯曲的肩膀、瘦弱的身体，他感到有些同情。四肢，还有嘴角忧郁的线条。 “可怜的家伙，”他想，“有些人到了他的年纪就如同狮子；而有些人却像狮子一样。”人们无法得知他们的年龄，只能知道他们已经长大了。”

‘Mr. Lydgate,’ said Mr. Casaubon, with his invariably po lite air, ‘I am exceedingly obliged to you for your punctuality. We will, if you please, carry on our conversation in walking to and fro.’
'先生。利德盖特，”卡苏邦先生一如既往地彬彬有礼地说，“我非常感谢你的准时。如果您愿意的话，我们可以在来回走动的过程中继续我们的谈话。

‘I hope your wish to see me is not due to the return of unpleasant symptoms,’ said Lydgate, filling up a pause.
“我希望你想见我并不是因为不愉快的症状再次出现，”利德盖特说道，填补了停顿。

‘Not immediately—no. In order to account for that wish I must mention— what it were otherwise needless to refer to—that my life, on all collateral accounts insignificant, derives a possible importance from the incompleteness of labors which have extended through all its best years. In short, I have long had on hand a work which I would fain leave behind me in such a state, at least, that it might be committed to the press by—others. Were I assured that this is the utmost I can reasonably expect, that assurance would be a useful circumscription of my attempts, and a guide in both the positive and negative determination of my course.’
“不是立即——不。为了解释这个愿望，我必须提到——否则就不必提及——我的生命，从所有附属的角度来看都是微不足道的，但从我最美好的岁月的不完整劳动中获得了可能的重要性。简而言之，我手头早就有一部作品，我很想把它留在身后，至少，它可能会被其他人委托给媒体。如果我确信这是我可以合理期望的最大程度，那么这种保证将成为我尝试的有用限制，并为我的路线的积极和消极决定提供指导。

Here Mr. Casaubon paused, removed one hand from his back and thrust it between the buttons of his single-breasted coat. To a mind largely instructed in the human destiny hardly anything could be more interesting than the inward conflict implied in his formal measured address, delivered with the usual sing-song and motion of the head. Nay, are there many situations more sublimely tragic than the struggle of the soul with the demand to renounce a work which has been all the significance of its life—a significance which is to vanish as the waters which come and go where no man has need of them? But there was nothing to strike others as sublime about Mr. Casaubon, and Lydgate, who had some contempt at hand for futile scholarship, felt a little amusement mingling with his pity. He was at present too ill acquainted with disaster to enter into the pathos of a lot where everything is below the level of tragedy except the passionate egoism of the sufferer.
说到这里，卡苏邦先生停了下来，将一只手从背后移开，伸进单排扣外套的纽扣之间。对于一个对人类命运有深入了解的人来说，没有什么比他正式、谨慎的演讲中所隐含的内心冲突更有趣的了，演讲中通常是唱歌和头部动作。不仅如此，还有比灵魂的挣扎更悲惨的情况吗？灵魂要求放弃一部对其一生具有全部意义的作品——这一意义将随着水流来去，无人需要之处而消失。他们当中？但卡苏邦先生并没有什么值得其他人觉得崇高的地方，利德盖特对无用的学术抱有一些蔑视，他的怜悯中夹杂着一丝好笑。他目前对灾难还不太了解，无法体会到一切都低于悲剧水平的悲痛，除了受难者的强烈的利己主义。

‘You refer to the possible hindrances from want of health?’ he said, wishing to help forward Mr. Casaubon’s purpose, which seemed to be clogged by some hesitation.
“你指的是健康状况不佳可能造成的障碍吗？”他说，希望帮助实现卡苏邦先生的目标，但他的目标似乎因一些犹豫而受阻。

‘I do. You have not implied to me that the symptoms which— I am bound to testify—you watched with scrupulous care, were those of a fatal disease. But were it so, Mr. Lydgate, I should desire to know the truth without reservation, and I appeal to you for an exact statement of your conclusions: I request it as a friendly service. If you can tell me that my life is not threatened by anything else than ordinary casualties, I shall rejoice, on grounds which I have already indicated. If not, knowledge of the truth is even more important to me.’
'我愿意。你并没有向我暗示——我必须作证——你小心翼翼地观察到的症状是致命疾病的症状。但如果是这样的话，利德盖特先生，我应该毫无保留地渴望了解真相，并且我呼吁您准确地陈述您的结论：我请求它作为一种友好的服务。如果你能告诉我，除了普通伤亡之外，我的生命没有受到任何其他威胁，我会很高兴，因为我已经指出了这一点。如果不是，了解真相对我来说就更重要了。

‘Then I can no longer hesitate as to my course,’ said Lydgate; ‘but the first thing I must impress on you is that my conclusions are doubly uncertain—uncertain not only because of my fallibility, but because diseases of the heart are eminently difficult to found predictions on. In any ease, one can hardly increase appreciably the tremendous uncertainty of life.’
“那么我就不能再犹豫我的路线了，”利德盖特说。 “但是我必须让你印象深刻的第一件事是，我的结论是双重不确定的——不确定不仅因为我的错误，而且因为心脏疾病非常难以找到预测。无论如何，人们都很难明显增加生活中巨大的不确定性。

Mr. Casaubon winced perceptibly, but bowed.
卡苏邦先生明显皱起了眉头，但还是鞠了躬。

‘I believe that you are suffering from what is called fatty degeneration of the heart, a disease which was first divined and explored by Laennec, the man who gave us the stethoscope, not so very many years ago. A good deal of experience—a more lengthened observation—is wanting on the subject. But after what you have said, it is my duty to tell you that death from this disease is often sudden. At the same time, no such result can be predicted. Your condition may be consistent with a tolerably comfortable life for another fifteen years, or even more. I could add no information to this beyond anatomical or medical details, which would leave expectation at precisely the same point.’ Lydgate’s instinct was fine enough to tell him that plain speech, quite free from ostentatious caution, would be felt by Mr. Casaubon as a tribute of respect.
“我相信你患有所谓的心脏脂肪变性，这种疾病是由莱内克（Laennec）首次发现和探索的，莱内克是他在不久前为我们提供了听诊器。在这个问题上还缺乏大量的经验——更长时间的观察。但听完你的话，我有责任告诉你，这种疾病的死亡往往是突然的。同时，也无法预测这样的结果。您的状况可能会在未来十五年甚至更长时间内过上相当舒适的生活。除了解剖学或医学细节之外，我无法添加任何信息，这将使期望处于完全相同的位置。利德盖特的直觉足够好，告诉他，卡苏邦先生会觉得平实的讲话，完全没有夸张的谨慎，就像表示尊重。

‘I thank you, Mr. Lydgate,’ said Mr. Casaubon, after a moment’s pause. ‘One thing more I have still to ask: did you communicate what you have now told me to Mrs. Casaubon?’
“我谢谢你，利德盖特先生，”卡苏邦先生停顿了一下后说道。 “我还有一件事要问：你现在告诉我的事情有没有传达给卡苏邦夫人？”

‘Partly—I mean, as to the possible issues.’ Lydgate was going to explain why he had told Dorothea, but Mr. Casaubon, with an unmistakable desire to end the conversation, waved his hand slightly, and said again, ‘I thank you,’ proceeding to remark on the rare beauty of the day.
“部分——我的意思是，关于可能出现的问题。”利德盖特正要解释为什么他告诉了多萝西娅，但卡苏邦先生显然很想结束谈话，他轻轻地挥了挥手，再次说道：“我谢谢你。”你，”接着评论了这一天难得的美丽。

Lydgate, certain that his patient wished to be alone, soon left him; and the black figure with hands behind and head bent forward continued to pace the walk where the dark yew-trees gave him a mute companionship in melancholy, and the little shadows of bird or leaf that fleeted across the isles of sunlight, stole along in silence as in the presence of a sorrow. Here was a man who now for the first time found himself looking into the eyes of death— who was passing through one of those rare moments of experience when we feel the truth of a commonplace, which is as different from what we call knowing it, as the vision of waters upon the earth is different from the delirious vision of the water which cannot be had to cool the burning tongue. When the commonplace ‘We must all die’ transforms itself suddenly into the acute consciousness ‘I must die— and soon,’ then death grapples us, and his fingers are cruel; afterwards, he may come to fold us in his arms as our mother did, and our last moment of dim earthly discerning may be like the first. To Mr. Casaubon now, it was as if he suddenly found himself on the dark river-brink and heard the plash of the oncoming oar, not discerning the forms, but expecting the summons. In such an hour the mind does not change its lifelong bias, but carries it onward in imagination to the other side of death, gazing backward— perhaps with the divine calm of beneficence, perhaps with the petty anxieties of self-assertion. What was Mr. Casaubon’s bias his acts will give us a clew to. He held himself to be, with some private scholarly reservations, a believing Christian, as to estimates of the present and hopes of the future. But what we strive to gratify, though we may call it a distant hope, is an immediate desire: the future estate for which men drudge up city alleys exists already in their imagination and love. And Mr. Casaubon’s immediate desire was not for divine communion and light divested of earthly conditions; his passionate longings, poor man, clung low and mist-like in very shady places.
利德盖特确信他的病人希望独处，很快就离开了他。那个黑色的身影双手放在后面，头向前倾，继续在路上踱步，黑色的紫杉树在忧郁中给了他无声的陪伴，鸟儿或树叶的小影子在阳光的岛屿上飞逝，默默地偷偷地走着。就像面对悲伤一样。这是一个人，现在第一次发现自己正看着死亡的眼睛——他正在经历那些罕见的经历时刻之一，当我们感受到司空见惯的真相时，这与我们所说的了解它是不同的，正如地球上的水的幻象与水的迷幻幻象不同，后者无法冷却灼热的舌头。当司空见惯的“我们都必须死”突然转变为敏锐的意识“我必须死——而且很快”时，死亡就会抓住我们，他的手指是残酷的；之后，他可能会像我们的母亲一样，把我们抱在怀里，而我们对尘世的模糊洞察力的最后一刻可能会像第一一刻一样。现在对卡苏邦先生来说，就好像他突然发现自己站在黑暗的河边，听到迎面而来的桨的拍击声，他没有辨别出形状，而是等待着召唤。在这样的时刻，心灵不会改变其终生的偏见，而是在想象中将其带到死亡的另一边，向后凝视——也许带着仁慈的神圣平静，也许带着自我主张的琐碎焦虑。卡苏邦先生的偏见是什么，他的行为将为我们提供线索。在对现在的估计和对未来的希望方面，他认为自己是一名虔诚的基督徒，但在学术上有一些保留。 但我们努力满足的，尽管我们可能称其为遥远的希望，却是一种迫在眉睫的愿望：人们在城市小巷里辛苦劳作的未来庄园已经存在于他们的想象和热爱之中。卡苏邦先生最直接的愿望并不是获得神圣的交流和脱离尘世条件的光明；而是获得神圣的交流和光明。可怜的人，他的强烈渴望像薄雾一样低垂在阴暗的地方。

Dorothea had been aware when Lydgate had ridden away, and she had stepped into the garden, with the impulse to go at once to her husband. But she hesitated, fearing to offend him by obtruding herself; for her ardor, continually repulsed, served, with her intense memory, to heighten her dread, as thwarted energy subsides into a shudder; and she wandered slowly round the nearer clumps of trees until she saw him advancing. Then she went towards him, and might have represented a heaven-sent angel coming with a promise that the short hours remaining should yet be filled with that faithful love which clings the closer to a comprehended grief. His glance in reply to hers was so chill that she felt her timidity increased; yet she turned and passed her hand through his arm.
当利德盖特骑马离开时，多萝西娅已经意识到了，她走进花园，想要立即去找她的丈夫。但她犹豫了，生怕冒犯了他。因为她的热情，不断地被拒绝，加上她强烈的记忆力，加剧了她的恐惧，因为受挫的能量消退为颤抖。她慢慢地绕过近处的树丛，直到看到他走来。然后她走向他，仿佛代表了一位天赐的天使，带着许诺，在剩下的短暂时间里，应该充满忠诚的爱，这种爱更接近一种可理解的悲伤。他回应她的目光如此冰冷，让她觉得自己更加胆怯了。但她转过身来，把手伸进了他的手臂。

Mr. Casaubon kept his hands behind him and allowed her pliant arm to cling with difficulty against his rigid arm.
卡苏邦先生把手放在身后，让她柔软的手臂艰难地贴在他僵硬的手臂上。

There was something horrible to Dorothea in the sensation which this unresponsive hardness inflicted on her. That is a strong word, but not too strong: it is in these acts called trivialities that the seeds of joy are forever wasted, until men and women look round with haggard faces at the devastation their own waste has made, and say, the earth bears no harvest of sweetness—calling their denial knowledge. You may ask why, in the name of manliness, Mr. Casaubon should have behaved in that way. Consider that his was a mind which shrank from pity: have you ever watched in such a mind the effect of a suspicion that what is pressing it as a grief may be really a source of contentment, either actual or future, to the being who already offends by pitying? Besides, he knew little of Dorothea’s sensations, and had not reflected that on such an occasion as the present they were comparable in strength to his own sensibilities about Carp’s criticisms.
这种毫无反应的僵硬给多萝西娅带来了某种可怕的感觉。这是一个很强烈的词，但不是太强烈：正是在这些被称为琐事的行为中，欢乐的种子永远被浪费了，直到男人和女人面容憔悴地环顾四周，看看他们自己的浪费所造成的破坏，并说，地球没有收获任何甜蜜——这就是他们否认的知识。你可能会问，为什么以男子气概的名义，卡苏邦先生应该这样做。考虑一下他的心灵是一个回避怜悯的人：你是否曾在这样的心灵中观察过怀疑的效果，即对已经存在的人来说，作为悲伤而压在心上的东西可能真的是满足的源泉，无论是现实的还是未来的。因怜悯而冒犯？此外，他对多萝西娅的感受知之甚少，也没有想到在现在这样的场合，这些感受的强度与他自己对卡普批评的感受相当。

Dorothea did not withdraw her arm, but she could not venture to speak. Mr. Casaubon did not say, ‘I wish to be alone,’ but he directed his steps in silence towards the house, and as they entered by the glass door on this eastern side, Dorothea withdrew her arm and lingered on the matting, that she might leave her husband quite free. He entered the library and shut himself in, alone with his sorrow.
多萝西娅没有收回手臂，但她不敢说话。卡苏邦先生没有说：“我想一个人呆着。”但他默默地朝房子走去，当他们从东边的玻璃门走进去时，多萝西娅收回了手臂，在席子上徘徊，她可能会让她的丈夫完全自由。他走进图书馆，把自己关在里面，独自承受着悲伤。

She went up to her boudoir. The open bow-window let in the serene glory of the afternoon lying in the avenue, where the lime-trees east long shadows. But Dorothea knew nothing of the scene. She threw herself on a chair, not heeding that she was in the dazzling sun-rays: if there were discomfort in that, how could she tell that it was not part of her inward misery?
她上楼去了自己的闺房。打开的弓窗让午后的宁静光辉照进大道，椴树向东投下长长的影子。但多萝西娅对这一幕一无所知。她倒在椅子上，全然不顾自己正处在耀眼的阳光下：如果有不舒服的感觉，又怎么能说这不是她内心的痛苦呢？

She was in the reaction of a rebellious anger stronger than any she had felt since her marriage. Instead of tears there came words:—
她感受到了自结婚以来从未有过的强烈的叛逆愤怒的反应。代替泪水的是这样的话：——

‘What have I done—what am I—that he should treat me so? He never knows what is in my mind—he never cares. What is the use of anything I do? He wishes he had never married me.’
‘我做了什么——我是什么——他竟然这样对待我？他永远不知道我心里在想什么——他从不关心。我所做的一切有什么用？他希望自己从未娶过我。

She began to hear herself, and was checked into stillness. Like one who has lost his way and is weary, she sat and saw as in one glance all the paths of her young hope which she should never find again. And just as clearly in the miserable light she saw her own and her husband’s solitude—how they walked apart so that she was obliged to survey him. If he had drawn her towards him, she would never have surveyed him—never have said, ‘Is he worth living for?’ but would have felt him simply a part of her own life. Now she said bitterly, ‘It is his fault, not mine.’ In the jar of her whole being, Pity was overthrown. Was it her fault that she had believed in him— had believed in his worthiness?—And what, exactly, was he?— She was able enough to estimate him—she who waited on his glances with trembling, and shut her best soul in prison, paying it only hidden visits, that she might be petty enough to please him. In such a crisis as this, some women begin to hate.
她开始听到自己的声音，然后陷入了安静。就像一个迷失了方向、疲惫不堪的人一样，她坐下来，一眼就看到了她年轻时希望的所有道路，但她再也找不到了。在悲惨的灯光下，她同样清楚地看到了自己和丈夫的孤独——他们如何走开，所以她不得不审视他。如果他把她吸引到他身边，她就永远不会打量他——永远不会说：“他值得为之而活吗？”但她会觉得他只是她自己生活的一部分。现在她痛苦地说：“这是他的错，不是我的。”在她整个存在的罐子里，怜悯被推翻了。她相信他——相信他的价值，是她的错吗？——他到底是什么？——她有足够的能力来估计他——她颤抖着等待着他的目光，却把自己最好的灵魂关在了里面。监狱里，只进行秘密探访，这样她就可以小气地取悦他。在这样的危机中，一些女性开始憎恨。

The sun was low when Dorothea was thinking that she would not go down again, but would send a message to her husband saying that she was not well and preferred remaining up-stairs. She had never deliberately allowed her resentment to govern her in this way before, but she believed now that she could not see him again without telling him the truth about her feeling, and she must wait till she could do it without interruption. He might wonder and be hurt at her message. It was good that he should wonder and be hurt. Her anger said, as anger is apt to say, that God was with her— that all heaven, though it were crowded with spirits watching them, must be on her side. She had determined to ring her bell, when there came a rap at the door.
太阳已经西斜，多萝西娅想着自己不会再下去了，而是会发信息给丈夫说她身体不太舒服，最好留在楼上。她以前从来没有故意让自己的怨恨以这种方式控制自己，但她现在相信，如果不告诉他自己的真实感受，她就无法再见到他，而她必须等到可以不间断地做到这一点。他可能会对她的信息感到好奇并感到受伤。他感到疑惑并受到伤害是件好事。她的愤怒表明，就像愤怒很容易说的那样，上帝与她同在——整个天堂，尽管挤满了灵魂在注视着他们，但也一定站在她一边。她正决定按门铃，这时有人敲门。

Mr. Casaubon had sent to say that he would have his dinner in the library. He wished to be quite alone this evening, being much occupied.
卡苏邦先生派人说他要在图书馆吃晚饭。今晚他想一个人呆着，因为事情太多了。

‘I shall not dine, then, Tantripp.’
“那么我就不吃饭了，坦特里普。”

‘Oh, madam, let me bring you a little something?’
“哦，女士，让我给您带点东西吗？”

‘No; I am not well. Get everything ready in my dressing room, but pray do not disturb me again.’
'不;我不好。把我的更衣室里的一切都准备好，但请不要再打扰我。”

Dorothea sat almost motionless in her meditative struggle, while the evening slowly deepened into night. But the struggle changed continually, as that of a man who begins with a movement towards striking and ends with conquering his desire to strike. The energy that would animate a crime is not more than is wanted to inspire a resolved, submission, when the noble habit of the soul reasserts itself. That thought with which Dorothea had gone out to meet her husband—her conviction that he had been asking about the possible arrest of all his work, and that the answer must have wrung his heart, could not be long without rising beside the image of him, like a shadowy monitor looking at her anger with sad remonstrance. It cost her a litany of pictured sorrows and of silent cries that she might be the mercy for those sorrows— but the resolved submission did come; and when the house was still, and she knew that it was near the time when Mr. Casaubon habitually went to rest, she opened her door gently and stood outside in the darkness waiting for his coming up-stairs with a light in his hand. If he did not come soon she thought that she would go down and even risk incurring another pang. She would never again expect anything else. But she did hear the library door open, and slowly the light advanced up the staircase without noise from the footsteps on the carpet. When her husband stood opposite to her, she saw that his face was more haggard. He started slightly on seeing her, and she looked up at him beseechingly, without speaking.
多萝西娅几乎一动不动地坐着，陷入沉思，夜色慢慢地深了下去。但斗争不断变化，就像一个人的斗争从争取罢工开始，到克服罢工欲望结束。当灵魂的崇高习惯重新显现出来时，激发犯罪的能量只不过是激发决心、屈服所需要的能量。多萝西娅出去见她丈夫时的想法——她确信他一直在询问是否有可能逮捕他所有的工作，而这个答案一定让他心痛不已，这种想法不会持续太久，就会出现在他的形象旁边。 ，就像一个阴暗的班长，带着悲伤的抗议注视着她的愤怒。她经历了一连串想象中的悲伤，并无声地哭泣，希望自己能够怜悯这些悲伤——但决心的屈服确实到来了；当房子里寂静无声时，她知道已经快到卡苏朋先生习惯性休息的时间了，她轻轻地打开门，在黑暗中站在外面，等待他上楼，手里拿着灯。如果他不快点来，她觉得自己会垮下去，甚至可能会再次遭受痛苦。她再也不会期待任何其他事情了。但她确实听到了图书馆的门打开的声音，光线慢慢地爬上楼梯，没有地毯上的脚步声。当丈夫站在她对面时，她看到他的脸色更加憔悴了。他看到她时微微一愣，她抬起头恳求地看着他，没有说话。

‘Dorothea!’ he said, with a gentle surprise in his tone. ‘Were you waiting for me?’
“多萝西娅！”他说道，语气中带着一丝惊讶。 “你在等我吗？”

‘Yes, I did not like to disturb you.’
“是的，我不想打扰你。”

‘Come, my dear, come. You are young, and need not to extend your life by watching.’
‘来吧，亲爱的，来吧。你还年轻，不需要通过观看来延长生命。”

When the kind quiet melancholy of that speech fell on Dorothea’s ears, she felt something like the thankfulness that might well up in us if we had narrowly escaped hurting a lamed creature. She put her hand into her husband’s, and they went along the broad corridor together.
当这番话中那种温柔而静谧的忧郁落入多萝西娅的耳中时，她会感到一种感激之情，就像我们侥幸逃脱伤害一个跛足的生物时一样。她把手放在丈夫的手里，他们一起沿着宽阔的走廊走去。

BOOK V.
第五册


THE DEAD HAND.
死手。


Chapter XLIII
第四十三章

This figure hath high price:
这个数字的价格很高：

’t was wrought with love
是用爱打造的

Ages ago in finest ivory;
很久以前，用最好的象牙制成；

Nought modish in it, pure and noble lines
毫无时髦感，线条纯粹而高贵

Of generous womanhood that fits all time
适合任何时候的慷慨女性气质

That too is costly ware; majolica
这也是昂贵的商品；陶器

Of deft design, to please a lordly eye:
巧妙的设计，取悦高贵的眼睛：

The smile, you see, is perfect—wonderful
你看，笑容是完美的——美妙的

As mere Faience! a table ornament
纯粹是彩陶！餐桌装饰品

To suit the richest mounting.’
以适应最丰富的安装。

Dorothea seldom left home without her husband, but she did occasionally drive into Middlemarch alone, on little errands of shopping or charity such as occur to every lady of any wealth when she lives within three miles of a town. Two days after that scene in the Yew-tree Walk, she determined to use such an opportunity in order if possible to see Lydgate, and learn from him whether her husband had really felt any depressing change of symptoms which he was concealing from her, and whether he had insisted on knowing the utmost about himself. She felt almost guilty in asking for knowledge about him from another, but the dread of being without it—the dread of that ignorance which would make her unjust or hard—overcame every scruple. That there had been some crisis in her husband’s mind she was certain: he had the very next day begun a new method of arranging his notes, and had associated her quite newly in carrying out his plan. Poor Dorothea needed to lay up stores of patience.
多萝西娅很少在没有丈夫的情况下离开家，但她偶尔会独自开车去米德尔马奇，进行一些购物或慈善的小差事，就像每一位住在距城镇三英里范围内的富有的女士都会遇到的情况一样。紫杉树步道那一幕发生两天后，她决定利用这个机会，如果可能的话，去见利德盖特，从他那里了解她的丈夫是否真的感受到了他向她隐瞒的任何令人沮丧的症状变化，并且他是否坚持要最大限度地了解自己。向别人询问有关他的情况，她几乎感到内疚，但对得不到这些信息的恐惧——对无知会使她变得不公正或冷酷的恐惧——克服了一切顾虑。她确信她丈夫的心里出现了某种危机：第二天他就开始了一种新的方法来整理他的笔记，并在执行他的计划时重新与她联系起来。可怜的多萝西娅需要积攒耐心。

It was about four o’clock when she drove to Lydgate’s house in Lowick Gate, wishing, in her immediate doubt of finding him at home, that she had written beforehand. And he was not at home.
大约四点钟，她驱车前往利德盖特位于洛威克门的家，因为她立即怀疑是否能在家里找到他，所以她希望自己事先写过信。而且他不在家。

‘Is Mrs. Lydgate at home?’ said Dorothea, who had never, that she knew of, seen Rosamond, but now remembered the fact of the marriage. Yes, Mrs. Lydgate was at home.
“利德盖特太太在家吗？”多萝西娅问道，据她所知，她从未见过罗莎蒙德，但现在却记起了结婚的事。是的，利德盖特夫人在家。

‘I will go in and speak to her, if she will allow me. Will you ask her if she can see me—see Mrs. Casaubon, for a few minutes?’
“如果她允许的话，我会进去和她说话。你能问她是否可以见见我——见见卡索邦夫人几分钟吗？

When the servant had gone to deliver that message, Dorothea could hear sounds of music through an open window—a few notes from a man’s voice and then a piano bursting into roulades. But the roulades broke off suddenly, and then the servant came back saying that Mrs. Lydgate would be happy to see Mrs. Casaubon.
当仆人去传达这条信息时，多萝西娅可以听到从一扇开着的窗户传来的音乐声——一个男人的声音中传来几个音符，然后钢琴突然响起了肉卷的声音。但肉卷突然中断了，然后仆人回来说利德盖特夫人很高兴见到卡苏邦夫人。

When the drawing-room door opened and Dorothea entered, there was a sort of contrast not infrequent in country life when the habits of the different ranks were less blent than now. Let those who know, tell us exactly what stuff it was that Dorothea wore in those days of mild autumn—that thin white woollen stuff soft to the touch and soft to the eye. It always seemed to have been lately washed, and to smell of the sweet hedges—was always in the shape of a pelisse with sleeves hanging all out of the fashion. Yet if she had entered before a still audience as Imogene or Cato’s daughter, the dress might have seemed right enough: the grace and dignity were in her limbs and neck; and about her simply parted hair and candid eyes the large round poke which was then in the fate of women, seemed no more odd as a head-dress than the gold trencher we call a halo. By the present audience of two persons, no dramatic heroine could have been expected with more interest than Mrs. Casaubon. To Rosamond she was one of those county divinities not mixing with Middlemarch mortality, whose slightest marks of manner or appearance were worthy of her study; moreover, Rosamond was not without satisfaction that Mrs. Casaubon should have an opportunity of studying HER. What is the use of being exquisite if you are not seen by the best judges? and since Rosamond had received the highest compliments at Sir Godwin Lydgate’s, she felt quite confident of the impression she must make on people of good birth. Dorothea put out her hand with her usual simple kindness, and looked admiringly at Lydgate’s lovely bride—aware that there was a gentleman standing at a distance, but seeing him merely as a coated figure at a wide angle. The gentleman was too much occupied with the presence of the one woman to reflect on the contrast between the two—a contrast that would certainly have been striking to a calm observer. They were both tall, and their eyes were on a level; but imagine Rosamond’s infantine blondness and wondrous crown of hair-plaits, with her pale-blue dress of a fit and fashion so perfect that no dressmaker could look at it without emotion, a large embroidered collar which it was to be hoped all beholders would know the price of, her small hands duly set off with rings, and that controlled self-consciousness of manner which is the expensive substitute for simplicity.
当客厅的门打开，多萝西娅走进来时，乡村生活中出现了一种并不罕见的对比，当时不同阶层的习惯不像现在那么融合。让那些知道的人确切地告诉我们，多萝西娅在那些温和的秋天穿的是什么衣服——那种薄薄的白色羊毛衣服，摸起来柔软，看着也柔软。它似乎总是最近才被洗过，散发出甜美的树篱的气味——总是呈外罩形状，袖子垂下来，完全不流行。然而，如果她以伊莫金或卡托的女儿的身份出现在安静的观众面前，那么这件衣服可能看起来就很合适：她的四肢和脖子充满了优雅和尊严；她那简单分开的头发和坦率的眼睛周围，那是当时妇女命运中的大圆刺，作为头饰，看起来并不比我们称之为光环的金色猎手更奇怪。在场的两个观众中，没有哪个戏剧女主角比卡苏朋夫人更感兴趣了。对罗莎蒙德来说，她是那些与米德尔马契的死亡无关的县神之一，其最细微的举止或外表特征都值得她研究。此外，罗莎蒙德对于卡苏邦夫人有机会研究她也不是不高兴。如果你不被最好的评委看到，那么再精致又有什么用呢？由于罗莎蒙德在戈德温·利德盖特爵士家里受到了最高的赞扬，她对自己给出身高贵的人留下的印象非常有信心。多萝西娅以她一贯的单纯和善伸出了手，钦佩地看着利德盖特可爱的新娘——意识到有一位绅士站在远处，但从广角看他只是一个穿着衣服的人物。 这位绅士全神贯注于一个女人的存在，无暇思考两者之间的对比——对于一个冷静的观察者来说，这种对比肯定会令人震惊。他们个子很高，目光平视。但想象一下罗莎蒙德的婴儿般的金发和奇妙的发辫，她那件合身、时尚的淡蓝色连衣裙如此完美，没有一个裁缝看了它会不带感情，一个大刺绣领子希望所有旁观者都会知道代价是，她的小手适当地戴着戒指，而她那控制自我意识的举止是简单的昂贵替代品。

‘Thank you very much for allowing me to interrupt you,’ said Dorothea, immediately. ‘I am anxious to see Mr. Lydgate, if possible, before I go home, and I hoped that you might possibly tell me where I could find him, or even allow me to wait for him, if you expect him soon.’
“非常感谢你允许我打断你，”多萝西娅立即说道。 “如果可能的话，我很想在回家之前见到利德盖特先生，我希望你能告诉我在哪里可以找到他，或者甚至允许我等他，如果你很快就会见到他的话。”

‘He is at the New Hospital,’ said Rosamond; ‘I am not sure how soon he will come home. But I can send for him,’
“他在新医院，”罗莎蒙德说。 “我不确定他多久才能回家。但我可以派人去找他，”

‘Will you let me go and fetch him?’ said Will Ladislaw, coming forward. He had already taken up his hat before Dorothea entered. She colored with surprise, but put out her hand with a smile of unmistakable pleasure, saying—
“你能让我去接他吗？”威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫走上前来说道。多萝西娅进来之前，他已经拿起帽子了。她满脸惊讶，但伸出手，露出明显高兴的微笑，说道——

‘I did not know it was you: I had no thought of seeing you here.’
“我不知道是你：我没想到会在这里见到你。”

‘May I go to the Hospital and tell Mr. Lydgate that you wish to see him?’ said Will.
“我可以去医院告诉利德盖特先生你想见他吗？”威尔说。

‘It would be quicker to send the carriage for him,’ said Dorothea, ‘if you will be kind enough to give the message to the coachman.’
“如果你能好心向车夫转告的话，派马车去接他会更快一些，”多萝西娅说道。

Will was moving to the door when Dorothea, whose mind had flashed in an instant over many connected memories, turned quickly and said, ‘I will go myself, thank you. I wish to lose no time before getting home again. I will drive to the Hospital and see Mr. Lydgate there. Pray excuse me, Mrs. Lydgate. I am very much obliged to you.’
威尔正要向门口走去，多萝西娅的脑海里瞬间闪过许多相互关联的记忆，她迅速转身说：“我自己去，谢谢。”我希望抓紧时间再次回家。我会开车去医院并在那里见利德盖特先生。请原谅，利德盖特夫人。我非常感谢你。

Her mind was evidently arrested by some sudden thought, and she left the room hardly conscious of what was immediately around her— hardly conscious that Will opened the door for her and offered her his arm to lead her to the carriage. She took the arm but said nothing. Will was feeling rather vexed and miserable, and found nothing to say on his side. He handed her into the carriage in silence, they said good-by, and Dorothea drove away.
她的思绪显然被某种突然的想法所吸引，她离开房间时几乎没有意识到周围发生了什么——几乎没有意识到威尔为她打开了门，并伸出手臂带她走向马车。她握住了手臂，但什么也没说。威尔感到相当烦恼和痛苦，他觉得无话可说。他默默地将她送进马车，他们道了别，多萝西娅开车离开了。

In the five minutes’ drive to the Hospital she had time for some reflections that were quite new to her. Her decision to go, and her preoccupation in leaving the room, had come from the sudden sense that there would be a sort of deception in her voluntarily allowing any further intercourse between herself and Will which she was unable to mention to her husband, and already her errand in seeking Lydgate was a matter of concealment. That was all that had been explicitly in her mind; but she had been urged also by a vague discomfort. Now that she was alone in her drive, she heard the notes of the man’s voice and the accompanying piano, which she had not noted much at the time, returning on her inward sense; and she found herself thinking with some wonder that Will Ladislaw was passing his time with Mrs. Lydgate in her husband’s absence. And then she could not help remembering that he had passed some time with her under like circumstances, so why should there be any unfitness in the fact? But Will was Mr. Casaubon’s relative, and one towards whom she was bound to show kindness. Still there had been signs which perhaps she ought to have understood as implying that Mr. Casaubon did not like his cousin’s visits during his own absence. ‘Perhaps I have been mistaken in many things,’ said poor Dorothea to herself, while the tears came rolling and she had to dry them quickly. She felt confusedly unhappy, and the image of Will which had been so clear to her before was mysteriously spoiled. But the carriage stopped at the gate of the Hospital. She was soon walking round the grass plots with Lydgate, and her feelings recovered the strong bent which had made her seek for this interview.
在前往医院的五分钟车程中，她有时间进行一些对她来说很新鲜的思考。她决定离开，全神贯注地离开房间，是因为她突然意识到，她自愿允许自己和威尔之间有任何进一步的交往，这可能是一种欺骗，而她无法向丈夫提及这一点，而且已经她寻找利德盖特的任务是保密的。这就是她心里明确的想法。但她也有一种隐隐约约的不适感。现在，车上只剩下她一个人，她听到了那个男人的声音和伴奏的钢琴声，当时她并没有注意到这些，这才回到了她的内心感觉；她发现自己有些奇怪地想，威尔·拉迪斯洛在她丈夫不在的情况下和利德盖特夫人一起度过了时光。然后她不禁想起，在同样的情况下，他也曾和她一起度过过一段时间，何必有什么不合适呢？但威尔是卡苏邦先生的亲戚，她必须对他表现出善意。尽管如此，还是有一些迹象，也许她应该理解为卡苏邦先生不喜欢他表弟在他不在期间来访。 “也许我在很多事情上都错了。”可怜的多萝西娅自言自语道，泪水滚滚而下，她必须赶紧擦干。她感到莫名的不高兴，之前对她来说如此清晰的威尔形象也被神秘地破坏了。可马车却停在了医院门口。很快，她就和利德盖特一起在草地上散步，她的感情又恢复了当初寻求这次采访的强烈倾向。

Will Ladislaw, meanwhile, was mortified, and knew the reason of it clearly enough. His chances of meeting Dorothea were rare; and here for the first time there had come a chance which had set him at a disadvantage. It was not only, as it had been hitherto, that she was not supremely occupied with him, but that she had seen him under circumstances in which he might appear not to be supremely occupied with her. He felt thrust to a new distance from her, amongst the circles of Middlemarchers who made no part of her life. But that was not his fault: of course, since he had taken his lodgings in the town, he had been making as many acquaintances as he could, his position requiring that he should know everybody and everything. Lydgate was really better worth knowing than any one else in the neighborhood, and he happened to have a wife who was musical and altogether worth calling upon. Here was the whole history of the situation in which Diana had descended too unexpectedly on her worshipper. It was mortifying. Will was conscious that he should not have been at Middlemarch but for Dorothea; and yet his position there was threatening to divide him from her with those barriers of habitual sentiment which are more fatal to the persistence of mutual interest than all the distance between Rome and Britain. Prejudices about rank and status were easy enough to defy in the form of a tyrannical letter from Mr. Casaubon; but prejudices, like odorous bodies, have a double existence both solid and subtle— solid as the pyramids, subtle as the twentieth echo of an echo, or as the memory of hyacinths which once scented the darkness. And Will was of a temperament to feel keenly the presence of subtleties: a man of clumsier perceptions would not have felt, as he did, that for the first time some sense of unfitness in perfect freedom with him had sprung up in Dorothea’s mind, and that their silence, as he conducted her to the carriage, had had a chill in it. Perhaps Casaubon, in his hatred and jealousy, had been insisting to Dorothea that Will had slid below her socially. Confound Casaubon!
与此同时，威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫感到羞愧，并且清楚地知道其中的原因。他见到多萝西娅的机会很少。这是第一次有机会让他处于不利地位。不仅是因为迄今为止，她并没有全心全意地关心他，而且她在他可能看起来并没有全心全意地关心她的情况下见过他。在米德尔马彻的圈子里，他感到自己与她拉开了新的距离，而这些人并不参与她的生活。但这不是他的错：当然，自从他在城里住下以来，他一直在尽可能多地结交朋友，他的职位要求他应该认识所有人和一切。利德盖特确实比附近的任何人都更值得认识，而且他碰巧有一位音乐才华横溢、完全值得拜访的妻子。这就是戴安娜出乎意料地降临在她的崇拜者身上的整个历史。这真是令人羞愧。威尔意识到，如果不是为了多萝西娅，他就不应该去米德尔马契。然而，他在那里的地位有可能使他与她之间的那些习惯性情感障碍相分离，这些障碍对于共同利益的持续存在比罗马和英国之间的距离更致命。卡苏邦先生写了一封专制的信，很容易就能推翻关于等级和地位的偏见。但偏见就像有气味的物体一样，具有既坚实又微妙的双重存在——像金字塔一样坚固，像回声的第二十个回声一样微妙，或者像曾经在黑暗中散发出香味的风信子的记忆一样微妙。 威尔的性情是能够敏锐地感受到微妙之处的存在：一个感知能力比较笨拙的人不会像他那样感觉到，多萝西娅的心里第一次出现了一种与他完全自由的不相称的感觉，并且当他领她上马车时，他们的沉默中带着一丝寒意。也许卡索邦出于仇恨和嫉妒，一直向多萝西娅坚持认为威尔在社交方面的地位低于她。混淆卡索邦！

Will re-entered the drawing-room, took up his hat, and looking irritated as he advanced towards Mrs. Lydgate, who had seated herself at her work-table, said—
威尔重新走进客厅，拿起帽子，朝坐在工作台前的利德盖特夫人走去，他显得很恼怒，说道——

‘It is always fatal to have music or poetry interrupted. May I come another day and just finish about the rendering of ‘Lungi dal caro bene’?’
“音乐或诗歌被打断总是致命的。我可以改天再来完成《Lungi dal caro bene》的渲染吗？

‘I shall be happy to be taught,’ said Rosamond. ‘But I am sure you admit that the interruption was a very beautiful one. I quite envy your acquaintance with Mrs. Casaubon. Is she very clever? She looks as if she were.’
“我很乐意接受教导，”罗莎蒙德说。 “但我确信你承认这次中断是一次非常美妙的中断。我很羡慕你能认识卡苏朋夫人。她很聪明吗？她看上去就像是的。

‘Really, I never thought about it,’ said Will, sulkily.
“真的，我从来没想过这个，”威尔闷闷不乐地说。

‘That is just the answer Tertius gave me, when I first asked him if she were handsome. What is it that you gentlemen are thinking of when you are with Mrs. Casaubon?’
“当我第一次问特蒂斯她是否英俊时，这就是他给我的答案。先生们，当你们和卡苏邦夫人在一起时，你们在想什么？

‘Herself,’ said Will, not indisposed to provoke the charming Mrs. Lydgate. ‘When one sees a perfect woman, one never thinks of her attributes—one is conscious of her presence.’
“她自己，”威尔说道，他无意激怒迷人的利德盖特夫人。 “当人们看到一位完美的女人时，人们永远不会想到她的特质，而是意识到她的存在。”

‘I shall be jealous when Tertius goes to Lowick,’ said Rosamond, dimpling, and speaking with aery lightness. ‘He will come back and think nothing of me.’
“当特蒂乌斯去洛威克时，我会嫉妒的，”罗莎蒙德说，脸上有酒窝，语气轻松。 “他回来后不会再想我了。”

‘That does not seem to have been the effect on Lydgate hitherto. Mrs. Casaubon is too unlike other women for them to be compared with her.’
“迄今为止，这似乎还没有对利德盖特产生影响。卡苏邦夫人与其他女性太不一样了，她们无法与她相比。

‘You are a devout worshipper, I perceive. You often see her, I suppose.’
“我认为你是一位虔诚的崇拜者。我想你经常见到她。

‘No,’ said Will, almost pettishly. ‘Worship is usually a matter of theory rather than of practice. But I am practising it to excess just at this moment—I must really tear myself away.
“不，”威尔几乎有些生气地说。 “敬拜通常是一个理论问题，而不是实践问题。但此时此刻我练习得太过分了——我真的必须把自己撕开。

‘Pray come again some evening: Mr. Lydgate will like to hear the music, and I cannot enjoy it so well without him.’
“祈祷有一天晚上再来吧：利德盖特先生会喜欢听音乐，没有他我就无法如此享受。”

When her husband was at home again, Rosamond said, standing in front of him and holding his coat-collar with both her hands, ‘Mr. Ladislaw was here singing with me when Mrs. Casaubon came in. He seemed vexed. Do you think he disliked her seeing him at our house? Surely your position is more than equal to his—whatever may be his relation to the Casaubons.’
当她的丈夫再次在家时，罗莎蒙德站在他面前，用双手握住他的衣领，说道：“先生。”当卡苏邦夫人进来时，拉迪斯瓦夫正在和我一起唱歌。他似乎很恼火。你认为他不喜欢她在我们家见到他吗？当然，你的地位不仅仅是与他平起平坐——无论他与卡苏邦家族的关系如何。

‘No, no; it must be something else if he were really vexed, Ladislaw is a sort of gypsy; he thinks nothing of leather and prunella.’
'不，不;如果他真的很烦恼的话，那一定是别的什么事情，拉迪斯瓦夫是一个吉普赛人。他对皮革和夏枯草不感兴趣。

‘Music apart, he is not always very agreeable. Do you like him?’
“除了音乐之外，他并不总是那么令人愉快。你喜欢他吗？'

‘Yes: I think he is a good fellow: rather miscellaneous and bric-a-brac, but likable.’
“是的：我认为他是个好人：虽然杂七杂八，但很讨人喜欢。”

‘Do you know, I think he adores Mrs. Casaubon.’
“你知道吗，我想他很喜欢卡苏邦夫人。”

‘Poor devil!’ said Lydgate, smiling and pinching his wife’s ears.
“可怜的家伙！”利德盖特微笑着捏着妻子的耳朵说道。

Rosamond felt herself beginning to know a great deal of the world, especially in discovering what when she was in her unmarried girlhood had been inconceivable to her except as a dim tragedy in by-gone costumes— that women, even after marriage, might make conquests and enslave men. At that time young ladies in the country, even when educated at Mrs. Lemon’s, read little French literature later than Racine, and public prints had not cast their present magnificent illumination over the scandals of life. Still, vanity, with a woman’s whole mind and day to work in, can construct abundantly on slight hints, especially on such a hint as the possibility of indefinite conquests. How delightful to make captives from the throne of marriage with a husband as crown-prince by your side—himself in fact a subject— while the captives look up forever hopeless, losing their rest probably, and if their appetite too, so much the better! But Rosamond’s romance turned at present chiefly on her crown-prince, and it was enough to enjoy his assured subjection. When he said, ‘Poor devil I’ she asked, with playful curiosity—
罗莎蒙德感到自己开始了解这个世界的很多事情，尤其是发现，在她未婚的少女时代，除了穿着过去服装的朦胧悲剧之外，她无法想象的事情——女人即使在结婚后也可能会取得征服。并奴役男人。当时，乡村的年轻女士们，即使在莱蒙夫人学校接受教育，也很少读过拉辛之后的法国文学，而公共印刷品也没有像现在这样对生活的丑闻进行华丽的阐释。尽管如此，女人的虚荣心和全心全意的工作，可以通过轻微的暗示，特别是像无限期征服的可能性这样的暗示来丰富地构建起来。让俘虏从婚姻的宝座上下来，丈夫作为太子在你身边，他自己实际上是一个臣民，而俘虏却永远绝望地仰望，可能失去休息，如果他们也没有胃口，那就更好了！但罗莎蒙德的浪漫目前主要转向她的王储，享受他的绝对服从就足够了。当他说“可怜的我”时，她带着顽皮的好奇心问道——

‘Why so?’
'为什么这样？'

‘Why, what can a man do when he takes to adoring one of you mermaids? He only neglects his work and runs up bills.’
‘为什么，当一个男人爱上你们美人鱼时，他能做什么呢？他只是忽视了自己的工作并增加了账单。

‘I am sure you do not neglect your work. You are always at the Hospital, or seeing poor patients, or thinking about some doctor’s quarrel; and then at home you always want to pore over your microscope and phials. Confess you like those things better than me.’
“我相信你不会忽视你的工作。你总是在医院，或者看望可怜的病人，或者想着一些医生的争吵；然后在家里你总是想仔细观察你的显微镜和小瓶。承认你比我更喜欢这些东西。

‘Haven’t you ambition enough to wish that your husband should be something better than a Middlemarch doctor?’ said Lydgate, letting his hands fall on to his wife’s shoulders, and looking at her with affectionate gravity. ‘I shall make you learn my favorite bit from an old poet—
“难道你还没有足够的野心希望你的丈夫成为比米德尔马奇医生更好的人吗？”利德盖特说，把手放在妻子的肩膀上，充满深情而严肃地看着她。 “我会让你从一位老诗人那里学到我最喜欢的片段——

‘Why should our pride make such a stir to be
‘为什么我们的骄傲要引起如此轰动

And be forgot? What good is like to this,
并被遗忘？这有什么好，

To do worthy the writing, and to write
做值得写的事，并写出

Worthy the reading and the worlds delight?’
值得一读并让世界高兴吗？

What I want, Rosy, is to do worthy the writing,—and to write out myself what I have done. A man must work, to do that, my pet.’
罗西，我想要做的是值得写作的事情，并且写出我自己所做的事情。一个人必须工作才能做到这一点，我的宠物。”

‘Of course, I wish you to make discoveries: no one could more wish you to attain a high position in some better place than Middlemarch. You cannot say that I have ever tried to hinder you from working. But we cannot live like hermits. You are not discontented with me, Tertius?’
“当然，我希望你有所发现：没有人比米德尔马奇更希望你在更好的地方获得高位了。你不能说我曾经试图阻止你工作。但我们不能像隐士一样生活。你对我没有不满吗，特提乌斯？

‘No, dear, no. I am too entirely contented.’
‘不，亲爱的，不。我太满足了。

‘But what did Mrs. Casaubon want to say to you?’
“但是卡苏朋夫人想对你说什么？”

‘Merely to ask about her husband’s health. But I think she is going to be splendid to our New Hospital: I think she will give us two hundred a-year.’
“只是为了询问她丈夫的健康状况。但我认为她会对我们的新医院非常出色：我认为她每年会给我们两百美元。”

CHAPTER XLIV
第四十四章

I would not creep along the coast but steer
我不会沿着海岸爬行，而是驾驶

Out in mid-sea, by guidance of the stars.
在星星的指引下，在海中央。

When Dorothea, walking round the laurel-planted plots of the New Hospital with Lydgate, had learned from him that there were no signs of change in Mr. Casaubon’s bodily condition beyond the mental sign of anxiety to know the truth about his illness, she was silent for a few moments, wondering whether she had said or done anything to rouse this new anxiety. Lydgate, not willing to let slip an opportunity of furthering a favorite purpose, ventured to say—
当多萝西娅和利德盖特一起在新医院的月桂树丛中散步时，从他那里得知卡苏朋先生的身体状况没有任何变化的迹象，除了焦虑地想知道他的病情真相的精神迹象外，她沉默了一会儿，想知道她是否说过或做了什么事情来引起这种新的焦虑。利德盖特不愿放过推进自己喜爱的目标的机会，他大胆地说——

‘I don’t know whether your or Mr.—Casaubon’s attention has been drawn to the needs of our New Hospital. Circumstances have made it seem rather egotistic in me to urge the subject; but that is not my fault: it is because there is a fight being made against it by the other medical men. I think you are generally interested in such things, for I remember that when I first had the pleasure of seeing you at Tipton Grange before your marriage, you were asking me some questions about the way in which the health of the poor was affected by their miserable housing.’
“我不知道您或卡索邦先生的注意力是否已被我们新医院的需求所吸引。环境使我觉得提出这个话题显得相当自负。但这不是我的错：这是因为其他医生正在与之斗争。我认为你通常对这些事情感兴趣，因为我记得当我在结婚前第一次有幸在蒂普顿农庄见到你时，你问了我一些关于穷人的健康如何受到他们的影响的问题。糟糕的住房。

‘Yes, indeed,’ said Dorothea, brightening. ‘I shall be quite grateful to you if you will tell me how I can help to make things a little better. Everything of that sort has slipped away from me since I have been married. I mean,’ she said, after a moment’s hesitation, ‘that the people in our village are tolerably comfortable, and my mind has been too much taken up for me to inquire further. But here—in such a place as Middlemarch—there must be a great deal to be done.’
“是的，确实如此，”多萝西娅说道，心情愉悦。 “如果你能告诉我如何帮助让事情变得更好，我将非常感激。”自从我结婚以来，诸如此类的一切都从我身边溜走了。我的意思是，”她犹豫了一下后说道，“我们村里的人过得还算舒服，而我的心思太多了，无暇进一步询问。但在这里——在米德尔马契这样的地方——必须要做很多事情。”

‘There is everything to be done,’ said Lydgate, with abrupt energy. ‘And this Hospital is a capital piece of work, due entirely to Mr. Bulstrode’s exertions, and in a great degree to his money. But one man can’t do everything in a scheme of this sort. Of course he looked forward to help. And now there’s a mean, petty feud set up against the thing in the town, by certain persons who want to make it a failure.’
“一切都要做，”利德盖特突然充满活力地说。 “这座医院是一项伟大的工程，完全归功于布尔斯特罗德先生的努力，很大程度上归功于他的金钱。但一个人不可能在这种计划中包揽一切。他当然希望能得到帮助。现在，镇上的某些人对这件事发起了卑鄙的、琐碎的争执，他们想让这件事失败。”

‘What can be their reasons?’ said Dorothea, with naive surprise.
“他们的理由是什么？”多萝西娅带着天真的惊讶问道。

‘Chiefly Mr. Bulstrode’s unpopularity, to begin with. Half the town would almost take trouble for the sake of thwarting him. In this stupid world most people never consider that a thing is good to be done unless it is done by their own set. I had no connection with Bulstrode before I came here. I look at him quite impartially, and I see that he has some notions—that he has set things on foot— which I can turn to good public purpose. If a fair number of the better educated men went to work with the belief that their observations might contribute to the reform of medical doctrine and practice, we should soon see a change for the better. That’s my point of view. I hold that by refusing to work with Mr. Bulstrode I should be turning my back on an opportunity of making my profession more generally serviceable.’
“首先，布尔斯特罗德先生不受欢迎。半个城镇的人几乎都会为了阻挠他而费尽心思。在这个愚蠢的世界里，大多数人从来不认为做某件事是件好事，除非它是由他们自己的一群人做的。在我来到这里之前，我与布尔斯特罗德没有任何联系。我相当公正地看待他，我发现他有一些想法——他已经把事情做好了——我可以将这些想法转化为良好的公共目的。如果相当多受过良好教育的人相信他们的观察可能有助于医学理论和实践的改革，那么我们很快就会看到更好的变化。这是我的观点。我认为，拒绝与布尔斯特罗德先生一起工作，我就应该放弃让我的职业变得更普遍的服务的机会。

‘I quite agree with you,’ said Dorothea, at once fascinated by the situation sketched in Lydgate’s words. ‘But what is there against Mr. Bulstrode? I know that my uncle is friendly with him.’
“我完全同意你的观点，”多萝西娅说，她立刻对利德盖特的话中描述的情况感到着迷。 “但是布尔斯特罗德先生有什么可反对的呢？我知道我叔叔对他很友好。

‘People don’t like his religious tone,’ said Lydgate, breaking off there.
“人们不喜欢他的宗教语气，”利德盖特说到这里就停了下来。

‘That is all the stronger reason for despising such an opposition,’ said Dorothea, looking at the affairs of Middlemarch by the light of the great persecutions.
“这就是鄙视这种反对派的最有力的理由。”多萝西娅一边说，一边从大迫害的角度审视米德尔马契的事务。

‘To put the matter quite fairly, they have other objections to him:— he is masterful and rather unsociable, and he is concerned with trade, which has complaints of its own that I know nothing about. But what has that to do with the question whether it would not be a fine thing to establish here a more valuable hospital than any they have in the county? The immediate motive to the opposition, however, is the fact that Bulstrode has put the medical direction into my hands. Of course I am glad of that. It gives me an opportunity of doing some good work,—and I am aware that I have to justify his choice of me. But the consequence is, that the whole profession in Middlemarch have set themselves tooth and nail against the Hospital, and not only refuse to cooperate themselves, but try to blacken the whole affair and hinder subscriptions.’
“公平地说，他们对他还有其他反对意见：——他专横，但不太爱交际，而且他关心贸易，而贸易本身也有一些抱怨，而我对此一无所知。但这与在这里建立一所比县里任何一家医院更有价值的医院是否不是一件好事的问题有什么关系呢？然而，反对派的直接动机是布尔斯特罗德将医学方向交给了我。我当然对此感到高兴。它给了我一个做一些好事的机会，而且我知道我必须证明他对我的选择是合理的。但结果是，米德尔马奇的整个行业都竭尽全力反对医院，他们不仅拒绝合作，还试图抹黑整个事件并阻碍订阅。

‘How very petty!’ exclaimed Dorothea, indignantly.
“真是太小气了！”多萝西娅愤怒地喊道。

‘I suppose one must expect to fight one’s way: there is hardly anything to be done without it. And the ignorance of people about here is stupendous. I don’t lay claim to anything else than having used some opportunities which have not come within everybody’s reach; but there is no stifling the offence of being young, and a new-comer, and happening to know something more than the old inhabitants. Still, if I believe that I can set going a better method of treatment— if I believe that I can pursue certain observations and inquiries which may be a lasting benefit to medical practice, I should be a base truckler if I allowed any consideration of personal comfort to hinder me. And the course is all the clearer from there being no salary in question to put my persistence in an equivocal light.’
“我想，一个人必须做好为自己奋斗的准备：没有它，几乎什么也做不了。这里人们的无知是惊人的。除了利用了一些并非每个人都能获得的机会之外，我并没有声称拥有任何其他东西。但是，作为一个年轻人，一个新来者，碰巧比老居民懂得更多，这并不能抑制他们的冒犯。尽管如此，如果我相信我可以采取更好的治疗方法——如果我相信我可以进行某些观察和询问，这可能对医疗实践有持久的好处，如果我允许任何个人考虑，我应该是一个基本的卡车司机。安慰阻碍我。而且，由于没有工资问题，课程更加清晰，我的坚持也变得模棱两可。

‘I am glad you have told me this, Mr. Lydgate,’ said Dorothea, cordially. ‘I feel sure I can help a little. I have some money, and don’t know what to do with it—that is often an uncomfortable thought to me. I am sure I can spare two hundred a-year for a grand purpose like this. How happy you must be, to know things that you feel sure will do great good! I wish I could awake with that knowledge every morning. There seems to be so much trouble taken that one can hardly see the good of!’
“我很高兴你告诉我这件事，利德盖特先生，”多萝西娅亲切地说。 “我确信我能帮上一点忙。我有一些钱，但不知道用它做什么——这对我来说常常是一个不舒服的想法。我确信我每年可以为这样的宏伟目标腾出两百块钱。知道你确信会带来巨大好处的事情，你一定感到多么高兴！我希望每天早上我都能带着这些知识醒来。似乎费了太多的麻烦，几乎看不到好处！

There was a melancholy cadence in Dorothea’s voice as she spoke these last words. But she presently added, more cheerfully, ‘Pray come to Lowick and tell us more of this. I will mention the subject to Mr. Casaubon. I must hasten home now.’
多萝西娅说这最后一句话时，声音里带着忧郁的韵律。但她很快又高兴地补充道：“请到洛伊克来告诉我们更多这件事。”我会向卡苏邦先生提及这个话题。我现在必须赶紧回家。

She did mention it that evening, and said that she should like to subscribe two hundred a-year—she had seven hundred a-year as the equivalent of her own fortune, settled on her at her marriage. Mr. Casaubon made no objection beyond a passing remark that the sum might be disproportionate in relation to other good objects, but when Dorothea in her ignorance resisted that suggestion, he acquiesced. He did not care himself about spending money, and was not reluctant to give it. If he ever felt keenly any question of money it was through the medium of another passion than the love of material property.
那天晚上她确实提到了这一点，并说她愿意每年缴纳两百英镑——她每年有七百英镑，相当于她自己的财产，是在她结婚时给她定的。卡苏邦先生没有提出任何反对意见，只是顺便评论了一下，这笔钱与其他好东西相比可能不成比例，但当多萝西娅无知地拒绝了这个建议时，他默许了。他不舍得花钱，也不舍得给。如果说他曾经对任何金钱问题有过敏锐的感觉，那也是通过另一种激情而不是对物质财产的热爱来实现的。

Dorothea told him that she had seen Lydgate, and recited the gist of her conversation with him about the Hospital. Mr. Casaubon did not question her further, but he felt sure that she had wished to know what had passed between Lydgate and himself ‘She knows that I know,’ said the ever-restless voice within; but that increase of tacit knowledge only thrust further off any confidence between them. He distrusted her affection; and what loneliness is more lonely than distrust?
多萝西娅告诉他，她见过利德盖特，并讲述了她与他谈论医院的要点。卡苏邦先生没有进一步询问她，但他确信她想知道利德盖特和他自己之间发生了什么。但默契知识的增加只会进一步削弱他们之间的信任。他不信任她的感情；还有什么孤独比不信任更孤独呢？

CHAPTER XLV
第四十五章

It is the humor of many heads to extol the days of their forefathers, and declaim against the wickedness of times present. Which notwithstanding they cannot handsomely do, without the borrowed help and satire of times past; condemning the vices of their own times, by the expressions of vices in times which they commend, which cannot but argue the community of vice in both. Horace, therefore, Juvenal, and Persius, were no prophets, although their lines did seem to indigitate and point at our times.—SIR THOMAS BROWNE: Pseudodoxia Epidemica.
歌颂祖先的时代，谴责当今时代的邪恶，是许多人的幽默。尽管如此，如果没有借来的帮助和过去的讽刺，他们就无法出色地做到这一点；通过表达他们所赞扬的时代的罪恶来谴责他们自己时代的罪恶，这不能不说明两者都是罪恶的共同体。因此，贺拉斯、尤维纳尔和波斯修斯都不是先知，尽管他们的诗句似乎确实暗示并指向我们的时代。——托马斯·布朗爵士：《伪流行病》。

That opposition to the New Fever Hospital which Lydgate had sketched to Dorothea was, like other oppositions, to be viewed in many different lights. He regarded it as a mixture of jealousy and dunderheaded prejudice. Mr. Bulstrode saw in it not only medical jealousy but a determination to thwart himself, prompted mainly by a hatred of that vital religion of which he had striven to be an effectual lay representative—a hatred which certainly found pretexts apart from religion such as were only too easy to find in the entanglements of human action. These might be called the ministerial views. But oppositions have the illimitable range of objections at command, which need never stop short at the boundary of knowledge, but can draw forever on the vasts of ignorance. What the opposition in Middlemarch said about the New Hospital and its administration had certainly a great deal of echo in it, for heaven has taken care that everybody shall not be an originator; but there were differences which represented every social shade between the polished moderation of Dr. Minchin and the trenchant assertion of Mrs. Dollop, the landlady of the Tankard in Slaughter Lane.
利德盖特向多萝西娅描绘的对新热病医院的反对，就像其他反对一样，可以从许多不同的角度来看待。他认为这是嫉妒和愚蠢偏见的混合体。布尔斯特罗德先生在其中不仅看到了医学上的嫉妒，而且还看到了一种挫败自己的决心，这主要是出于对他一直努力成为有效的世俗代表的那个重要宗教的仇恨——这种仇恨肯定会在宗教之外找到借口，例如在人类行为的纠葛中很容易找到。这些可以称为部长级意见。但反对派有无限范围的反对意见，它们永远不需要在知识的边界上停下来，但可以永远利用巨大的无知。米德尔马奇的反对派对新医院及其管理的言论肯定引起了很大的反响，因为上天已经安排好了，不让每个人都成为发起者。但是，铭钦博士的优雅温和与屠宰巷酒馆女老板多洛普夫人的尖锐主张之间存在着代表各种社会阶层的差异。

Mrs. Dollop became more and more convinced by her own asseveration, that Dr. Lydgate meant to let the people die in the Hospital, if not to poison them, for the sake of cutting them up without saying by your leave or with your leave; for it was a known ‘fac’ that he had wanted to cut up Mrs. Goby, as respectable a woman as any in Parley Street, who had money in trust before her marriage— a poor tale for a doctor, who if he was good for anything should know what was the matter with you before you died, and not want to pry into your inside after you were gone. If that was not reason, Mrs. Dollop wished to know what was; but there was a prevalent feeling in her audience that her opinion was a bulwark, and that if it were overthrown there would be no limits to the cutting-up of bodies, as had been well seen in Burke and Hare with their pitch-plaisters— such a hanging business as that was not wanted in Middlemarch!
多洛普太太越来越相信自己的主张，利德盖特医生的意思是让人们死在医院里，即使不是毒死他们，也是为了在没有得到您的许可或未经您许可的情况下将他们肢解；因为这是一个众所周知的“事实”，他想杀死戈比夫人，她和帕利街的任何一位受人尊敬的女人一样，在结婚前有信托资金——对于一个医生来说，这是一个糟糕的故事，如果他是个好人的话因为任何人都应该知道你死前发生了什么事情，而不是在你去世后想窥探你的内心。如果这都不是理由，多洛普太太想知道什么才是。但她的听众普遍感觉她的观点是一个堡垒，如果它被推翻，尸体的切割就会没有限制，正如在伯克和黑尔的沥青石膏中所看到的那样——米德尔马契不想要这样悬而未决的事情！

And let it not be supposed that opinion at the Tankard in Slaughter Lane was unimportant to the medical profession: that old authentic public-house—the original Tankard, known by the name of Dollop’s— was the resort of a great Benefit Club, which had some months before put to the vote whether its long-standing medical man, ‘Doctor Gambit,’ should not be cashiered in favor of ‘this Doctor Lydgate,’ who was capable of performing the most astonishing cures, and rescuing people altogether given up by other practitioners. But the balance had been turned against Lydgate by two members, who for some private reasons held that this power of resuscitating persons as good as dead was an equivocal recommendation, and might interfere with providential favors. In the course of the year, however, there had been a change in the public sentiment, of which the unanimity at Dollop’s was an index
不要认为屠宰巷酒馆的意见对医学界来说并不重要：那家古老的正宗酒馆——原来的酒馆，以多洛普的名字而闻名——是一个伟大的福利俱乐部的度假胜地，几个月前，人们投票决定是否应将其长期任职的医生“甘比特医生”解职，让“这位利德盖特医生”来担任，他能够进行最令人惊讶的治疗，并拯救那些完全被放弃的人。其他从业者。但两名成员的天平对利德盖特不利，他们出于某些私人原因认为，这种让死者复活的权力是一项模棱两可的建议，并且可能会干扰天意的恩惠。然而，在这一年中，公众情绪发生了变化，多洛普的一致意见就是一个指标

A good deal more than a year ago, before anything was known of Lydgate’s skill, the judgments on it had naturally been divided, depending on a sense of likelihood, situated perhaps in the pit of the stomach or in the pineal gland, and differing in its verdicts, but not the less valuable as a guide in the total deficit of evidence. Patients who had chronic diseases or whose lives had long been worn threadbare, like old Featherstone’s, had been at once inclined to try him; also, many who did not like paying their doctor’s bills, thought agreeably of opening an account with a new doctor and sending for him without stint if the children’s temper wanted a dose, occasions when the old practitioners were often crusty; and all persons thus inclined to employ Lydgate held it likely that he was clever. Some considered that he might do more than others ‘where there was liver;’—at least there would be no harm in getting a few bottles of ‘stuff’ from him, since if these proved useless it would still be possible to return to the Purifying Pills, which kept you alive if they did not remove the yellowness. But these were people of minor importance. Good Middlemarch families were of course not going to change their doctor without reason shown; and everybody who had employed Mr. Peacock did not feel obliged to accept a new man merely in the character of his successor, objecting that he was ‘not likely to be equal to Peacock.’
一年多以前，在人们对利德盖特的技巧有任何了解之前，对它的判断自然就存在分歧，这取决于一种可能性的感觉，可能位于胃坑或松果体中，并且在不同的方面有所不同。其判决，但在证据完全缺乏的情况下，其作为指导的价值也同样重要。那些患有慢性疾病或生活早已疲惫不堪的病人，比如老费瑟斯通的病人，立刻就倾向于尝试他；但他的建议却是这样的。此外，许多不喜欢支付医生费用的人也同意在一位新医生那里开设一个帐户，如果孩子们的脾气需要一剂药物，那么就毫不犹豫地派人去请他，而在这种情况下，老医生往往脾气暴躁。所有愿意雇用利德盖特的人都认为他很聪明。有些人认为，“有肝脏的地方”他可能会比其他人做得更多——至少从他那里得到几瓶“东西”不会有什么坏处，因为如果这些被证明是无用的，仍然可以返回到净化丸，如果不能去除黄色，就可以让你活下去。但这些都是次要的人。好的米德尔马契家庭当然不会在没有理由的情况下更换医生。每个雇用过皮科克先生的人都没有义务仅仅因为他的继任者的性格而接受一个新人，并反对说他“不太可能与皮科克相提并论”。

But Lydgate had not been long in the town before there were particulars enough reported of him to breed much more specific expectations and to intensify differences into partisanship; some of the particulars being of that impressive order of which the significance is entirely hidden, like a statistical amount without a standard of comparison, but with a note of exclamation at the end. The cubic feet of oxygen yearly swallowed by a full-grown man— what a shudder they might have created in some Middlemarch circles! ‘Oxygen! nobody knows what that may be—is it any wonder the cholera has got to Dantzic? And yet there are people who say quarantine is no good!’
但利德盖特在镇上呆了没多久，有关他的详细情况就得到了足够多的报道，引发了更具体的期望，并加剧了党派之争的分歧。有些细节令人印象深刻，其重要性完全被隐藏，就像没有比较标准的统计数字，但最后带有感叹号。一个成年男子每年要吞下多少立方英尺的氧气——这可能会让米德尔马契的一些圈子感到多么不寒而栗！ '氧！没有人知道那可能是什么——霍乱传染给丹齐克有什么奇怪的吗？但还是有人说隔离没有好处！”

One of the facts quickly rumored was that Lydgate did not dispense drugs. This was offensive both to the physicians whose exclusive distinction seemed infringed on, and to the surgeon-apothecaries with whom he ranged himself; and only a little while before, they might have counted on having the law on their side against a man who without calling himself a London-made M.D. dared to ask for pay except as a charge on drugs. But Lydgate had not been experienced enough to foresee that his new course would be even more offensive to the laity; and to Mr. Mawmsey, an important grocer in the Top Market, who, though not one of his patients, questioned him in an affable manner on the subject, he was injudicious enough to give a hasty popular explanation of his reasons, pointing out to Mr. Mawmsey that it must lower the character of practitioners, and be a constant injury to the public, if their only mode of getting paid for their work was by their making out long bills for draughts, boluses, and mixtures.
很快就有传言称，利德盖特并没有配发毒品。这既冒犯了那些其专有地位似乎受到侵犯的医生，也冒犯了与他合作的外科医生兼药剂师。就在不久之前，他们还可能指望法律会站在他们这一边来对付一个不自称伦敦出身的医学博士却敢于索要报酬的人，除非是毒品指控。但利德盖特的经验还不够丰富，无法预见到他的新做法会更加冒犯外行。莫姆西先生是顶级市场的一位重要杂货商，尽管他不是他的病人，但他以和蔼可亲的方式向他询问了这个问题，他很不明智，对他的理由做出了仓促、通俗的解释，指出莫姆西先生认为，如果从业者获得报酬的唯一方式是通过开出大额的药物、丸剂和混合物账单，那么这肯定会降低从业者的品格，并对公众造成持续的伤害。

‘It is in that way that hard-working medical men may come to be almost as mischievous as quacks,’ said Lydgate, rather thoughtlessly. ‘To get their own bread they must overdose the king’s lieges; and that’s a bad sort of treason, Mr. Mawmsey—undermines the constitution in a fatal way.’
利德盖特不假思索地说：“正是这样，辛勤工作的医务人员可能变得几乎和庸医一样调皮。” “为了得到自己的面包，他们必须给国王的臣民服用过量的药物；莫姆西先生，这是一种严重的叛国罪，它以致命的方式破坏了宪法。

Mr. Mawmsey was not only an overseer (it was about a question of outdoor pay that he was having an interview with Lydgate), he was also asthmatic and had an increasing family: thus, from a medical point of view, as well as from his own, he was an important man; indeed, an exceptional grocer, whose hair was arranged in a flame-like pyramid, and whose retail deference was of the cordial, encouraging kind—jocosely complimentary, and with a certain considerate abstinence from letting out the full force of his mind. It was Mr. Mawmsey’s friendly jocoseness in questioning him which had set the tone of Lydgate’s reply. But let the wise be warned against too great readiness at explanation: it multiplies the sources of mistake, lengthening the sum for reckoners sure to go wrong.
莫姆西先生不仅是一名监工（他在接受利德盖特采访时谈到了户外报酬的问题），他还患有哮喘，并且家庭成员不断增加：因此，从医学角度以及从对于他自己来说，他是一个重要的人；事实上，他是一位杰出的杂货商，他的头发排列成火焰般的金字塔，他对零售的尊重是真诚的、令人鼓舞的——戏谑的赞美，并且有一定的体贴的克制，不让他的全部思想发挥出来。正是莫姆西先生在询问他时所表现出的友好而诙谐的态度，奠定了利德盖特答复的基调。但我们要警告智者，不要过于急于解释：它会增加错误的根源，延长计算者肯定会出错的总和。

Lydgate smiled as he ended his speech, putting his foot into the stirrup, and Mr. Mawmsey laughed more than he would have done if he had known who the king’s lieges were, giving his ‘Good morning, sir, good-morning, sir,’ with the air of one who saw everything clearly enough. But in truth his views were perturbed. For years he had been paying bills with strictly made items, so that for every half-crown and eighteen-pence he was certain something measurable had been delivered. He had done this with satisfaction, including it among his responsibilities as a husband and father, and regarding a longer bill than usual as a dignity worth mentioning. Moreover, in addition to the massive benefit of the drugs to ‘self and family,’ he had enjoyed the pleasure of forming an acute judgment as to their immediate effects, so as to give an intelligent statement for the guidance of Mr. Gambit— a practitioner just a little lower in status than Wrench or Toller, and especially esteemed as an accoucheur, of whose ability Mr. Mawmsey had the poorest opinion on all other points, but in doctoring, he was wont to say in an undertone, he placed Gambit above any of them.
利德盖特微笑着结束了他的演讲，把脚踩进了马镫，莫姆西先生笑得比他知道国王的臣子是谁还要大，他说“早上好，先生，早上好，先生， ’带着一种看清一切的神气。但事实上，他的观点受到了干扰。多年来，他一直用严格制作的物品来支付账单，因此，每半克朗和十八便士，他确信已经交付了一些可衡量的东西。他对此感到满意，将其视为丈夫和父亲的责任，并将比平常更长的账单视为值得一提的尊严。此外，除了这些药物给“自己和家人”带来的巨大好处外，他还享受到对其直接影响做出敏锐判断的乐趣，以便为甘比特先生的指导提供明智的陈述——医生的地位比扳手或托勒低一点，特别受人尊敬的是医生，莫姆西先生在所有其他方面对他的能力评价最差，但在医生方面，他习惯于轻声说，他把开局放在了高于其中任何一个。

Here were deeper reasons than the superficial talk of a new man, which appeared still flimsier in the drawing-room over the shop, when they were recited to Mrs. Mawmsey, a woman accustomed to be made much of as a fertile mother,—generally under attendance more or less frequent from Mr. Gambit, and occasionally having attacks which required Dr. Minchin.
这里有比新男人的肤浅谈话更深层的原因，当他们向莫姆西夫人朗诵时，这些新男人在商店上方的客厅里显得更加脆弱，莫姆西夫人是一个习惯于被视为多产母亲的女人，通常甘比特先生或多或少都在场，偶尔也会有需要铭钦博士的攻击。

‘Does this Mr. Lydgate mean to say there is no use in taking medicine?’ said Mrs. Mawmsey, who was slightly given to drawling. ‘I should like him to tell me how I could bear up at Fair time, if I didn’t take strengthening medicine for a month beforehand. Think of what I have to provide for calling customers, my dear!’—here Mrs. Mawmsey turned to an intimate female friend who sat by—‘a large veal pie— a stuffed fillet—a round of beef—ham, tongue, et cetera, et cetera! But what keeps me up best is the pink mixture, not the brown. I wonder, Mr. Mawmsey, with your experience, you could have patience to listen. I should have told him at once that I knew a little better than that.’
“这位利德盖特先生的意思是说吃药没有什么用吗？”莫姆西夫人说，她的声音有点拖长。 “我希望他能告诉我，如果我不提前一个月服用强化药物，在公平时间我该如何忍受。”想想我必须为打电话的顾客提供什么，亲爱的！”——说到这里，莫姆西夫人转向坐在旁边的一位亲密的女性朋友——“一大块小牛肉馅饼——一块酿鱼片——一圈牛肉——火腿、牛舌等等诸如此类，等等！但最让我兴奋的是粉色混合物，而不是棕色。我想知道，莫姆西先生，以你的经验，你能有耐心倾听吗？我应该立即告诉他我比这更了解一点。

‘No, no, no,’ said Mr. Mawmsey; ‘I was not going to tell him my opinion. Hear everything and judge for yourself is my motto. But he didn’t know who he was talking to. I was not to be turned on HIS finger. People often pretend to tell me things, when they might as well say, ‘Mawmsey, you’re a fool.’ But I smile at it: I humor everybody’s weak place. If physic had done harm to self and family, I should have found it out by this time.’
“不，不，不，”莫姆西先生说。 “我本来不想告诉他我的意见。倾听一切并自己判断是我的座右铭。但他不知道自己在跟谁说话。我不应该被他的手指所左右。人们常常假装告诉我一些事情，其实他们可能会说，“莫姆西，你是个傻瓜。”但我对此微笑：我迁就每个人的弱点。如果药物对自己和家人造成了伤害，我这个时候应该已经发现了。

The next day Mr. Gambit was told that Lydgate went about saying physic was of no use.
第二天，甘比特先生被告知利德盖特到处说物理没有用。

‘Indeed!’ said he, lifting his eyebrows with cautious surprise. (He was a stout husky man with a large ring on his fourth finger.) ‘How will he cure his patients, then?’
“确实如此！”他扬起眉毛，小心翼翼地惊讶起来。 （他是个粗壮、粗壮的男人，无名指上戴着一个大戒指。）“那么，他将如何治愈他的病人呢？”

‘That is what I say,’ returned Mrs. Mawmsey, who habitually gave weight to her speech by loading her pronouns. ‘Does HE suppose that people will pay him only to come and sit with them and go away again?’
“我就是这么说的，”莫姆西夫人回答道，她习惯性地用代词来加重自己的讲话。 “他是否认为人们付钱给他只是为了来和他们坐在一起然后再离开？”

Mrs. Mawmsey had had a great deal of sitting from Mr. Gambit, including very full accounts of his own habits of body and other affairs; but of course he knew there was no innuendo in her remark, since his spare time and personal narrative had never been charged for. So he replied, humorously—
莫姆西太太听过甘比特先生的很多谈话，包括对他自己的身体习惯和其他事务的详细叙述。但他当然知道她的话中没有任何暗示，因为他的业余时间和个人叙述从未被收费。于是他幽默地回答道——

‘Well, Lydgate is a good-looking young fellow, you know.’
“嗯，你知道，利德盖特是一个英俊的年轻人。”

‘Not one that I would employ,’ said Mrs. Mawmsey. ‘OTHERS may do as they please.’
“我不会雇用这样的人，”莫姆西夫人说。 “其他人可以为所欲为。”

Hence Mr. Gambit could go away from the chief grocer’s without fear of rivalry, but not without a sense that Lydgate was one of those hypocrites who try to discredit others by advertising their own honesty, and that it might be worth some people’s while to show him up. Mr. Gambit, however, had a satisfactory practice, much pervaded by the smells of retail trading which suggested the reduction of cash payments to a balance. And he did not think it worth his while to show Lydgate up until he knew how. He had not indeed great resources of education, and had had to work his own way against a good deal of professional contempt; but he made none the worse accoucheur for calling the breathing apparatus ‘longs.’
因此，甘比特先生可以离开首席杂货店而不用担心竞争，但他也意识到利德盖特是那些试图通过宣传自己的诚实来诋毁他人的伪君子之一，并且可能值得一些人花时间来表明他起来。然而，甘比特先生的做法令人满意，弥漫着零售交易的味道，表明现金支付减少到平衡。他认为在利德盖特不知道该怎么做之前，不值得花时间去展示他。他确实没有受过良好的教育，而且不得不以自己的方式工作，以对抗职业上的大量蔑视。但他称呼吸器为“longs”，这并没有让他变得更糟。

Other medical men felt themselves more capable. Mr. Toller shared the highest practice in the town and belonged to an old Middlemarch family: there were Tollers in the law and everything else above the line of retail trade. Unlike our irascible friend Wrench, he had the easiest way in the world of taking things which might be supposed to annoy him, being a well-bred, quietly facetious man, who kept a good house, was very fond of a little sporting when he could get it, very friendly with Mr. Hawley, and hostile to Mr. Bulstrode. It may seem odd that with such pleasant habits he should hare been given to the heroic treatment, bleeding and blistering and starving his patients, with a dispassionate disregard to his personal example; but the incongruity favored the opinion of his ability among his patients, who commonly observed that Mr. Toller had lazy manners, but his treatment was as active as you could desire: no man, said they, carried more seriousness into his profession: he was a little slow in coming, but when he came, he DID something. He was a great favorite in his own circle, and whatever he implied to any one’s disadvantage told doubly from his careless ironical tone.
其他医务人员觉得自己更有能力。托勒先生拥有镇上最高的执业资格，出身于一个古老的米德尔马契家族：法律界以及零售业以外的其他领域都有托勒先生。与我们脾气暴躁的朋友扳手不同，他有世界上最简单的方式来接受那些可能会惹恼他的事情，他是一个有教养的、安静的滑稽的人，有一个很好的房子，当他的时候非常喜欢一点运动。能得到它，对霍利先生非常友好，但对布尔斯特罗德先生充满敌意。奇怪的是，他有着如此令人愉快的习惯，竟然受到英勇的治疗，让病人流血、起泡、挨饿，而对他个人的榜样却漠不关心。但这种不协调有利于他的病人对他能力的评价，他们普遍认为托勒先生举止懒惰，但他的治疗却如你所愿的那样积极：他们说，没有人比他的职业更严肃：他是来的有点慢，但是当他来的时候，他做了一些事情。他在自己的圈子里很受欢迎，无论他暗示什么对任何人不利，从他漫不经心的讽刺语气中都可以看出双重含义。

He naturally got tired of smiling and saying, ‘Ah!’ when he was told that Mr. Peacock’s successor did not mean to dispense medicines; and Mr. Hackbutt one day mentioning it over the wine at a dinner-party, Mr. Toller said, laughingly, ‘Dibbitts will get rid of his stale drugs, then. I’m fond of little Dibbitts—I’m glad he’s in luck.’
当他得知孔雀先生的继任者无意配药时，他自然厌烦了“啊！”的笑声。有一天，哈克布特先生在一次晚宴上喝着酒时提到了这件事，托勒先生笑着说，“那么迪比特斯就会扔掉他的陈旧毒品了。”我很喜欢小迪比特——我很高兴他很幸运。

‘I see your meaning, Toller,’ said Mr. Hackbutt, ‘and I am entirely of your opinion. I shall take an opportunity of expressing myself to that effect. A medical man should be responsible for the quality of the drugs consumed by his patients. That is the rationale of the system of charging which has hitherto obtained; and nothing is more offensive than this ostentation of reform, where there is no real amelioration.’
“我明白你的意思，托勒，”哈克布特先生说，“我完全同意你的意见。”我将借此机会表达自己的意思。一个医务人员应该对病人所使用的药品的质量负责。这就是迄今为止所获得的收费系统的基本原理；没有什么比这种炫耀改革更令人反感的了，但实际上并没有真正的改善。

‘Ostentation, Hackbutt?’ said Mr. Toller, ironically. ‘I don’t see that. A man can’t very well be ostentatious of what nobody believes in. There’s no reform in the matter: the question is, whether the profit on the drugs is paid to the medical man by the druggist or by the patient, and whether there shall be extra pay under the name of attendance.’
“炫耀吧，哈克布特？”托勒先生讽刺地说。 ‘我不这么认为。一个人不能很好地炫耀没人相信的东西。这件事没有改革：问题是药品的利润是由药剂师还是由患者支付给医生，以及是否应该支付。以出勤名义获得额外报酬。

‘Ah, to be sure; one of your damned new versions of old humbug,’ said Mr. Hawley, passing the decanter to Mr. Wrench.
‘啊，当然了； “你这该死的老骗子的新版本之一。”霍利先生一边说着，一边把酒瓶递给了扳手先生。

Mr. Wrench, generally abstemious, often drank wine rather freely at a party, getting the more irritable in consequence.
扳手先生一向节制，在聚会上经常喝酒，结果变得更加烦躁。

‘As to humbug, Hawley,’ he said, ‘that’s a word easy to fling about. But what I contend against is the way medical men are fouling their own nest, and setting up a cry about the country as if a general practitioner who dispenses drugs couldn’t be a gentleman. I throw back the imputation with scorn. I say, the most ungentlemanly trick a man can be guilty of is to come among the members of his profession with innovations which are a libel on their time-honored procedure. That is my opinion, and I am ready to maintain it against any one who contradicts me.’ Mr. Wrench’s voice had become exceedingly sharp.
“至于欺骗，霍利，”他说，“这个词很容易被乱说。但我所反对的是，医务人员弄脏了自己的老窝，并为国家发出呐喊，好像配药的全科医生就不是绅士一样。我轻蔑地驳回了这种指责。我想说的是，一个人可能犯下的最不绅士的伎俩就是在他的职业成员中提出创新，而这些创新是对其历史悠久的程序的诽谤。这是我的观点，我准备坚持这一观点，反对任何与我相矛盾的人。”扳手先生的声音变得异常尖锐。

‘I can’t oblige you there, Wrench,’ said Mr. Hawley, thrusting his hands into his trouser-pockets.
“我不能答应你，扳手，”霍利先生说着，把手插进裤兜里。

‘My dear fellow,’ said Mr. Toller, striking in pacifically! and looking at Mr. Wrench, ‘the physicians have their toes trodden on more than we have. If you come to dignity it is a question for Minchin and Sprague.’
“我亲爱的朋友，”托勒先生平静地说！看看扳手先生，“医生们比我们受过更多的痛苦。”如果你谈到尊严，这就是明钦和斯普拉格的问题。

‘Does medical jurisprudence provide nothing against these infringements?’ said Mr. Hackbutt, with a disinterested desire to offer his lights. ‘How does the law stand, eh, Hawley?’
“医学法学没有对这些侵权行为提供任何依据吗？”哈克布特先生问道，他无私地想要提供他的灯光。 “法律是怎样规定的，呃，霍利？”

‘Nothing to be done there,’ said Mr. Hawley. ‘I looked into it for Sprague. You’d only break your nose against a damned judge’s decision.’
“那里没什么可做的，”霍利先生说。 “我为斯普拉格进行了调查。如果你反对该死的法官的决定，你只会打断自己的鼻子。”

‘Pooh! no need of law,’ said Mr. Toller. ‘So far as practice is concerned the attempt is an absurdity. No patient will like it— certainly not Peacock’s, who have been used to depletion. Pass the wine.’
'呸！不需要法律，”托勒先生说。 “就实践而言，这种尝试是荒谬的。没有病人会喜欢它——当然不是皮科克的病人，因为他已经习惯了耗尽。把酒递过来。

Mr. Toller’s prediction was partly verified. If Mr. and Mrs. Mawmsey, who had no idea of employing Lydgate, were made uneasy by his supposed declaration against drugs, it was inevitable that those who called him in should watch a little anxiously to see whether he did ‘use all the means he might use’ in the case. Even good Mr. Powderell, who in his constant charity of interpretation was inclined to esteem Lydgate the more for what seemed a conscientious pursuit of a better plan, had his mind disturbed with doubts during his wife’s attack of erysipelas, and could not abstain from mentioning to Lydgate that Mr. Peacock on a similar occasion had administered a series of boluses which were not otherwise definable than by their remarkable effect in bringing Mrs. Powderell round before Michaelmas from an illness which had begun in a remarkably hot August. At last, indeed, in the conflict between his desire not to hurt Lydgate and his anxiety that no ‘means’ should be lacking, he induced his wife privately to take Widgeon’s Purifying Bills, an esteemed Middlemarch medicine, which arrested every disease at the fountain by setting to work at once upon the blood. This co-operative measure was not to be mentioned to Lydgate, and Mr. Powderell himself had no certain reliance on it, only hoping that it might be attended with a blessing.
托勒先生的预测得到了部分证实。如果莫姆西先生和夫人对利德盖特所谓的禁毒声明感到不安，他们根本不知道雇用利德盖特，那么那些叫他进来的人不可避免地应该有点焦急地观察他是否“使用了所有手段”。他可能会在这种情况下使用'。就连善良的鲍德德尔先生，在他一贯仁慈的解释中，倾向于更加尊重利德盖特，因为他似乎在认真地追求更好的计划，在他妻子患丹毒期间，他的心也受到了怀疑，无法避免提及利德盖特得知，皮科克先生曾在类似的场合服用过一系列丸剂，这些丸剂除了在米迦勒节前使鲍德德尔夫人从八月异常炎热的疾病中恢复过来外，无法用其他方式来定义。事实上，最后，在他不想伤害利德盖特的愿望和他不应该缺少“手段”的焦虑之间的冲突中，他诱使他的妻子私下服用维吉恩的净化比尔，这是一种受人尊敬的米德尔马契药物，它可以在喷泉处阻止所有疾病。立即开始对血液起作用。这项合作措施没有向利德盖特提及，而波德德尔先生本人对此也没有一定的依赖，只是希望它能带来祝福。

But in this doubtful stage of Lydgate’s introduction he was helped by what we mortals rashly call good fortune. I suppose no doctor ever came newly to a place without making cures that surprised somebody— cures which may be called fortune’s testimonials, and deserve as much credit as the ten or printed kind. Various patients got well while Lydgate was attending them, some even of dangerous illnesses; and it was remarked that the new doctor with his new ways had at least the merit of bringing people back from the brink of death. The trash talked on such occasions was the more vexatious to Lydgate, because it gave precisely the sort of prestige which an incompetent and unscrupulous man would desire, and was sure to be imputed to him by the simmering dislike of the other medical men as an encouragement on his own part of ignorant puffing. But even his proud outspokenness was checked by the discernment that it was as useless to fight against the interpretations of ignorance as to whip the fog; and ‘good fortune’ insisted on using those interpretations.
但在利德盖特介绍的这个令人怀疑的阶段，他得到了我们凡人轻率地称之为好运的帮助。我想，新到一个地方的医生，都会有令人惊讶的治疗方法——这些治疗方法可以被称为财富的见证，值得与十种或印刷的那种一样多的赞誉。在利德盖特的治疗期间，许多病人都康复了，有些甚至患有危险的疾病。有人说，这位新医生用他的新方法至少有把人从死亡边缘拉回来的功绩。在这种场合说垃圾话对利德盖特来说更恼火，因为这恰恰给了一个无能、不择手段的人所渴望的那种威望，并且肯定会因为其他医务人员逐渐厌恶而归咎于他，作为一种鼓励。就他自己无知的喘息而言。但即使是他骄傲的直言不讳，也被他的洞察力所遏制，因为他认识到，与无知的解释作斗争就像拨开迷雾一样毫无用处。而“好运”则坚持使用这些解释。

Mrs. Larcher having just become charitably concerned about alarming symptoms in her charwoman, when Dr. Minchin called, asked him to see her then and there, and to give her a certificate for the Infirmary; whereupon after examination he wrote a statement of the case as one of tumor, and recommended the bearer Nancy Nash as an out-patient. Nancy, calling at home on her way to the Infirmary, allowed the stay maker and his wife, in whose attic she lodged, to read Dr. Minchin’s paper, and by this means became a subject of compassionate conversation in the neighboring shops of Churchyard Lane as being afflicted with a tumor at first declared to be as large and hard as a duck’s egg, but later in the day to be about the size of ‘your fist.’ Most hearers agreed that it would have to be cut out, but one had known of oil and another of ‘squitchineal’ as adequate to soften and reduce any lump in the body when taken enough of into the inside— the oil by gradually ‘soopling,’ the squitchineal by eating away.
拉彻夫人刚刚出于仁慈地担心她的女佣出现了令人担忧的症状，这时明钦医生打电话来，请他当场看望她，并给她一张医务室的证明。检查后，他写了一份声明，称该病例为肿瘤，并推荐携带者南希·纳什到门诊就诊。南希在去医务室的路上给家里打电话，允许她住在阁楼上的床铺制造商和他的妻子阅读明钦医生的论文，通过这种方式，南希成为教堂庭院巷附近商店中富有同情心的谈话对象起初，他被宣称患有肿瘤，像鸭蛋一样又大又硬，但后来却变成了“你的拳头”大小。大多数听众都同意必须将其切除，但其中一个人们知道油和另一种“南瓜灯”足以软化和减少体内的任何肿块，只要将足够的油摄入体内即可逐渐“渗入”，而南瓜灯则通过侵蚀而消失。

Meanwhile when Nancy presented herself at the Infirmary, it happened to be one of Lydgate’s days there. After questioning and examining her, Lydgate said to the house-surgeon in an undertone, ‘It’s not tumor: it’s cramp.’ He ordered her a blister and some steel mixture, and told her to go home and rest, giving her at the same time a note to Mrs. Larcher, who, she said, was her best employer, to testify that she was in need of good food.
与此同时，当南希来到医务室时，正好是利德盖特在那里的日子之一。在对她进行询问和检查后，利德盖特低声对家庭外科医生说：“这不是肿瘤：而是抽筋。”他给她开了一个水泡和一些钢铁混合物，并让她回家休息，同时给她注射了药物。给拉彻夫人写一张便条，她说拉彻夫人是她最好的雇主，证明她需要好吃的食物。

But by-and-by Nancy, in her attic, became portentously worse, the supposed tumor having indeed given way to the blister, but only wandered to another region with angrier pain. The staymaker’s wife went to fetch Lydgate, and he continued for a fortnight to attend Nancy in her own home, until under his treatment she got quite well and went to work again. But the case continued to be described as one of tumor in Churchyard Lane and other streets—nay, by Mrs. Larcher also; for when Lydgate’s remarkable cure was mentioned to Dr. Minchin, he naturally did not like to say, ‘The case was not one of tumor, and I was mistaken in describing it as such,’ but answered, ‘Indeed! ah! I saw it was a surgical case, not of a fatal kind.’ He had been inwardly annoyed, however, when he had asked at the Infirmary about the woman he had recommended two days before, to hear from the house-surgeon, a youngster who was not sorry to vex Minchin with impunity, exactly what had occurred: he privately pronounced that it was indecent in a general practitioner to contradict a physician’s diagnosis in that open manner, and afterwards agreed with Wrench that Lydgate was disagreeably inattentive to etiquette. Lydgate did not make the affair a ground for valuing himself or (very particularly) despising Minchin, such rectification of misjudgments often happening among men of equal qualifications. But report took up this amazing case of tumor, not clearly distinguished from cancer, and considered the more awful for being of the wandering sort; till much prejudice against Lydgate’s method as to drugs was overcome by the proof of his marvellous skill in the speedy restoration of Nancy Nash after she had been rolling and rolling in agonies from the presence of a tumor both hard and obstinate, but nevertheless compelled to yield.
但渐渐地，南希在她的阁楼里，情况变得更加糟糕，所谓的肿瘤确实已经变成了水泡，但只是带着更剧烈的疼痛转移到了另一个区域。住所制造者的妻子去接利德盖特，他继续在南希自己家里照顾了两周，直到在他的治疗下，她康复并再次上班。但这个病例仍然被描述为墓地巷和其他街道上的毒瘤之一——不，拉彻夫人也如此；因为当向明钦医生提到利德盖特的显着疗效时，他自然不喜欢说：“这个病例不是肿瘤，我这样描述是错误的”，而是回答说：“确实如此！”啊！我看到这是一个外科手术，不是致命的。”然而，当他在医务室询问他两天前推荐的那个女人的情况时，听到家庭外科医生，一个年轻人的说法，他内心感到恼火。他并不后悔惹恼了明钦而不受惩罚，正是所发生的事情：他私下宣称，作为一名全科医生，以这种公开的方式反驳医生的诊断是不礼貌的，后来同意扳手的观点，即利德盖特对礼仪的不注意令人讨厌。利德盖特并没有把这件事作为评价自己或（特别是）鄙视明钦的理由，这种对错误判断的纠正经常发生在具有同等资格的人中。 但报告提到了这个令人惊奇的肿瘤病例，它与癌症没有明显区别，并且认为游走型肿瘤更可怕。直到南希·纳什因肿瘤坚硬而顽固而痛苦地翻滚，但仍被迫屈服后，他以惊人的技巧使南希·纳什迅速康复，从而克服了对利德盖特药物方法的许多偏见。 。

How could Lydgate help himself? It is offensive to tell a lady when she is expressing her amazement at your skill, that she is altogether mistaken and rather foolish in her amazement. And to have entered into the nature of diseases would only have added to his breaches of medical propriety. Thus he had to wince under a promise of success given by that ignorant praise which misses every valid quality.
利德盖特该如何帮助自己呢？当一位女士对你的技巧表示惊讶时，告诉她她完全错了，而且她的惊讶相当愚蠢，这是一种冒犯。如果深入了解疾病的本质，只会加剧他对医疗礼仪的违背。因此，他不得不在无知的赞美所带来的成功承诺面前退缩，这种赞美忽略了每一个有效的品质。

In the case of a more conspicuous patient, Mr. Borthrop Trumbull, Lydgate was conscious of having shown himself something better than an every-day doctor, though here too it was an equivocal advantage that he won. The eloquent auctioneer was seized with pneumonia, and having been a patient of Mr. Peacock’s, sent for Lydgate, whom he had expressed his intention to patronize. Mr Trumbull was a robust man, a good subject for trying the expectant theory upon— watching the course of an interesting disease when left as much as possible to itself, so that the stages might be noted for future guidance; and from the air with which he described his sensations Lydgate surmised that he would like to be taken into his medical man’s confidence, and be represented as a partner in his own cure. The auctioneer heard, without much surprise, that his was a constitution which (always with due watching) might be left to itself, so as to offer a beautiful example of a disease with all its phases seen in clear delineation, and that he probably had the rare strength of mind voluntarily to become the test of a rational procedure, and thus make the disorder of his pulmonary functions a general benefit to society.
在一位更引人注目的病人博思罗普·特朗布尔先生的案例中，利德盖特意识到自己表现出了比普通医生更好的东西，尽管他在这方面赢得了一个模棱两可的优势。这位能言善辩的拍卖师得了肺炎，曾是皮科克先生的病人，他派人去找利德盖特，他曾表示愿意光顾他。特朗布尔先生是个健壮的人，是尝试期待理论的一个好对象——观察一种有趣的疾病的病程，尽可能地让其自行观察，以便记录各个阶段以供将来指导；从他描述自己感觉的语气中，利德盖特推测他希望得到他的医生的信任，并被代表为他自己治疗的合作伙伴。拍卖师毫不惊讶地听说，他的体质（总是在适当的观察下）可能会被保留下来，以便提供一个疾病的美丽例子，其所有阶段都清晰可见，而且他可能已经罕见的心智力量自愿成为理性程序的考验，从而使他的肺功能紊乱造福于社会。

Mr. Trumbull acquiesced at once, and entered strongly into the view that an illness of his was no ordinary occasion for medical science.
特朗布尔先生立刻默许了，并强烈地认为他的病对于医学来说不是一个普通的事件。

‘Never fear, sir; you are not speaking to one who is altogether ignorant of the vis medicatrix,’ said he, with his usual superiority of expression, made rather pathetic by difficulty of breathing. And he went without shrinking through his abstinence from drugs, much sustained by application of the thermometer which implied the importance of his temperature, by the sense that he furnished objects for the microscope, and by learning many new words which seemed suited to the dignity of his secretions. For Lydgate was acute enough to indulge him with a little technical talk.
“别害怕，先生； “你不是在跟一个对医学一无所知的人说话。”他说道，他一贯表现出优越感，但由于呼吸困难而变得相当可怜。他毫不犹豫地戒掉了毒品，这在很大程度上是通过使用温度计来维持的，这意味着他的体温的重要性，通过他为显微镜提供物体的感觉，以及通过学习许多似乎适合尊严的新单词。他的分泌物。因为利德盖特足够敏锐，愿意跟他讲一些技术性的话题。

It may be imagined that Mr. Trumbull rose from his couch with a disposition to speak of an illness in which he had manifested the strength of his mind as well as constitution; and he was not backward in awarding credit to the medical man who had discerned the quality of patient he had to deal with. The auctioneer was not an ungenerous man, and liked to give others their due, feeling that he could afford it. He had caught the words ‘expectant method,’ and rang chimes on this and other learned phrases to accompany the assurance that Lydgate ‘knew a thing or two more than the rest of the doctors—was far better versed in the secrets of his profession than the majority of his compeers.’
可以想象，特朗布尔先生从沙发上站起来，准备谈论一种疾病，在这种疾病中，他表现出了他的精神和体质的力量；但他在这种疾病中表现出了坚强的意志力和体质。他毫不犹豫地将功劳归功于那些认识到他所面对的病人质量的医生。拍卖师并不是一个小气的人，喜欢给予别人应有的东西，觉得自己买得起。他听到了“期待方法”这个词，并按响了这个词和其他学识短语，以保证利德盖特“比其他医生多知道一两件事——比其他医生更熟悉他的职业秘密”。他的大多数同行。

This had happened before the affair of Fred Vincy’s illness had given to Mr. Wrench’s enmity towards Lydgate more definite personal ground. The new-comer already threatened to be a nuisance in the shape of rivalry, and was certainly a nuisance in the shape of practical criticism or reflections on his hard-driven elders, who had had something else to do than to busy themselves with untried notions. His practice had spread in one or two quarters, and from the first the report of his high family had led to his being pretty generally invited, so that the other medical men had to meet him at dinner in the best houses; and having to meet a man whom you dislike is not observed always to end in a mutual attachment. There was hardly ever so much unanimity among them as in the opinion that Lydgate was an arrogant young fellow, and yet ready for the sake of ultimately predominating to show a crawling subservience to Bulstrode. That Mr. Farebrother, whose name was a chief flag of the anti-Bulstrode party, always defended Lydgate and made a friend of him, was referred to Farebrother’s unaccountable way of fighting on both sides.
这件事发生在弗雷德·文西患病事件尚未使扳手先生对利德盖特的敌意有了更明确的个人基础之前。新来者已经威胁要成为竞争中的讨厌鬼，而且在对他的强硬的前辈进行实际批评或反思时，肯定会成为讨厌鬼，他们除了忙于未经尝试的想法之外，还有其他事情要做。 。他的做法在一两个季度内就传播开来，从一开始，他的上流家族的报道就导致他受到了普遍的邀请，因此其他医生不得不在最好的房子里共进晚餐时与他会面。遇到一个你不喜欢的男人并不一定会导致相互依恋。他们之间几乎没有如此一致的观点，即利德盖特是一个傲慢的年轻人，但为了最终占据主导地位，他准备对布尔斯特罗德表现出爬行的屈从。费雷布拉泽先生是反布尔斯特罗德党的一面旗帜，他总是为利德盖特辩护并与他成为朋友，这被称为费雷布拉泽双方不负责任的战斗方式。

Here was plenty of preparation for the outburst of professional disgust at the announcement of the laws Mr. Bulstrode was laying down for the direction of the New Hospital, which were the more exasperating because there was no present possibility of interfering with his will and pleasure, everybody except Lord Medlicote having refused help towards the building, on the ground that they preferred giving to the Old Infirmary. Mr. Bulstrode met all the expenses, and had ceased to be sorry that he was purchasing the right to carry out his notions of improvement without hindrance from prejudiced coadjutors; but he had had to spend large sums, and the building had lingered. Caleb Garth had undertaken it, had failed during its progress, and before the interior fittings were begun had retired from the management of the business; and when referring to the Hospital he often said that however Bulstrode might ring if you tried him, he liked good solid carpentry and masonry, and had a notion both of drains and chimneys. In fact, the Hospital had become an object of intense interest to Bulstrode, and he would willingly have continued to spare a large yearly sum that he might rule it dictatorially without any Board; but he had another favorite object which also required money for its accomplishment: he wished to bay some land in the neighborhood of Middlemarch, and therefore he wished to get considerable contributions towards maintaining the Hospital. Meanwhile he framed his plan of management. The Hospital was to be reserved for fever in all its forms; Lydgate was to be chief medical superintendent, that he might have free authority to pursue all comparative investigations which his studies, particularly in Paris, had shown him the importance of, the other medical visitors having a consultative influence, but no power to contravene Lydgate’s ultimate decisions; and the general management was to be lodged exclusively in the hands of five directors associated with Mr. Bulstrode, who were to have votes in the ratio of their contributions, the Board itself filling up any vacancy in its numbers, and no mob of small contributors being admitted to a share of government.
布尔斯特罗德先生为新医院的方向制定的法律宣布后，职业厌恶的爆发已经做好了充分的准备，这些法律更令人恼火，因为目前不可能干扰他的意愿和乐趣，除了梅德利科特勋爵之外，所有人都拒绝为这座建筑提供帮助，理由是他们更愿意向旧医务室捐款。布尔斯特罗德先生支付了所有费用，并且不再因为他购买了权利来实现他的改进想法而不受带有偏见的陪审员的阻碍而感到遗憾。但他不得不花费大量资金，这座建筑才得以搁置。凯莱布·加斯 (Caleb Garth) 接手了这项工程，但在进展过程中失败了，在内部装修开始之前就退出了公司的管理；当提到医院时，他经常说，无论你尝试一下布尔斯特罗德的声音如何，他都喜欢坚固的木工和砖石，并且对排水沟和烟囱都有概念。事实上，布尔斯特罗德已经对医院产生了浓厚的兴趣，他愿意继续每年拿出一大笔钱，这样他就可以在没有任何董事会的情况下对医院进行独裁统治。但他还有另一个最喜欢的目标，也需要金钱才能完成：他希望在米德尔马奇附近获得一些土地，因此他希望获得相当大的捐款来维持医院。与此同时，他制定了自己的管理计划。 医院将专门用于治疗各种形式的发烧。利德盖特将担任首席医疗总监，他可以自由地进行所有比较调查，他的研究，特别是在巴黎，向他展示了这些研究的重要性，其他医疗访客具有咨询影响力，但无权违反利德盖特的最终决定决定;总体管理权完全由与布尔斯特罗德先生相关的五名董事负责，他们按照出资比例​​拥有投票权，董事会本身可以填补其人数中的任何空缺，并且不得有小额出资的暴民被接纳为政府的一员。

There was an immediate refusal on the part of every medical man in the town to become a visitor at the Fever Hospital.
镇上的每个医务人员立即拒绝到发烧医院探望。

‘Very well,’ said Lydgate to Mr. Bulstrode, ‘we have a capital house-surgeon and dispenser, a clear-headed, neat-handed fellow; we’ll get Webbe from Crabsley, as good a country practitioner as any of them, to come over twice a-week, and in case of any exceptional operation, Protheroe will come from Brassing. I must work the harder, that’s all, and I have given up my post at the Infirmary. The plan will flourish in spite of them, and then they’ll be glad to come in. Things can’t last as they are: there must be all sorts of reform soon, and then young fellows may be glad to come and study here.’ Lydgate was in high spirits.
“很好，”利德盖特对布尔斯特罗德先生说，“我们有一位首都外科医生兼配药员，一个头脑清醒、手脚干净的人；我们会让来自克拉布斯利的韦伯每周过来两次，他是一位出色的乡村医生，他是来自布拉辛的，以防万一发生任何特殊情况。我必须更加努力，仅此而已，我已经放弃了医务室的职位。不管他们如何，这个计划都会成功，然后他们就会很高兴进来。事情不能一直这样下去：必须很快进行各种改革，然后年轻人可能会很高兴来这里学习” 利德盖特兴高采烈。

‘I shall not flinch, you may depend upon it, Mr. Lydgate,’ said Mr. Bulstrode. ‘While I see you carrying out high intentions with vigor, you shall have my unfailing support. And I have humble confidence that the blessing which has hitherto attended my efforts against the spirit of evil in this town will not be withdrawn. Suitable directors to assist me I have no doubt of securing. Mr. Brooke of Tipton has already given me his concurrence, and a pledge to contribute yearly: he has not specified the sum— probably not a great one. But he will be a useful member of the board.’
“我不会退缩，你可以相信这一点，利德盖特先生，”布尔斯特罗德先生说。 ‘当我看到你充满活力地实现崇高目标时，你将得到我坚定不移的支持。我有谦卑的信心，迄今为止伴随着我对抗这个城镇邪恶精神的努力所获得的祝福不会被撤回。我毫无疑问会找到合适的董事来协助我。蒂普顿的布鲁克先生已经向我表达了他的同意，并承诺每年捐款：他没有具体说明金额——可能不是一个很大的金额。但他将成为董事会中一位有用的成员。”

A useful member was perhaps to be defined as one who would originate nothing, and always vote with Mr. Bulstrode.
一个有用的成员也许应该被定义为一个不会发起任何事情、并且总是投票支持布尔斯特罗德先生的人。

The medical aversion to Lydgate was hardly disguised now. Neither Dr. Sprague nor Dr. Minchin said that he disliked Lydgate’s knowledge, or his disposition to improve treatment: what they disliked was his arrogance, which nobody felt to be altogether deniable. They implied that he was insolent, pretentious, and given to that reckless innovation for the sake of noise and show which was the essence of the charlatan.
现在，人们对利德盖特的医学厌恶几乎是毫不掩饰的。斯普拉格医生和明钦医生都没有说他不喜欢利德盖特的知识，也不喜欢他改善治疗的倾向：他们不喜欢的是他的傲慢，没有人认为这是完全可以否认的。他们暗示他傲慢无礼，自命不凡，为了喧哗和炫耀而进行鲁莽的创新，而这正是江湖骗子的本质。

The word charlatan once thrown on the air could not be let drop. In those days the world was agitated about the wondrous doings of Mr. St. John Long, ‘noblemen and gentlemen’ attesting his extraction of a fluid like mercury from the temples of a patient.
江湖骗子这个词曾经在空中流传，不能再放过。在那些日子里，全世界都为圣约翰·朗先生的奇妙作为而激动不已，“贵族先生们”证明了他从病人的太阳穴中提取了一种像水银一样的液体。

Mr. Toller remarked one day, smilingly, to Mrs. Taft, that ‘Bulstrode had found a man to suit him in Lydgate; a charlatan in religion is sure to like other sorts of charlatans.’
有一天，托勒先生微笑着对塔夫脱夫人说，“布尔斯特罗德在利德盖特找到了一个适合他的人；他在利德盖特找到了一个适合他的人。”宗教中的江湖骗子肯定会喜欢其他类型的江湖骗子。

‘Yes, indeed, I can imagine,’ said Mrs. Taft, keeping the number of thirty stitches carefully in her mind all the while; ‘there are so many of that sort. I remember Mr. Cheshire, with his irons, trying to make people straight when the Almighty had made them crooked.’
“是的，确实，我能想象。”塔夫脱夫人一边说，一边始终牢记着三十针的数目。 ‘这样的事有很多。我记得柴郡先生用他的镣铐，试图把全能的上帝使人变得弯曲的人变直。

‘No, no,’ said Mr. Toller, ‘Cheshire was all right—all fair and above board. But there’s St. John Long—that’s the kind of fellow we call a charlatan, advertising cures in ways nobody knows anything about: a fellow who wants to make a noise by pretending to go deeper than other people. The other day he was pretending to tap a man’s brain and get quicksilver out of it.’
“不，不，”托勒先生说，“柴郡很好——一切都光明正大。”但有圣约翰·朗——我们称之为江湖骗子的那种人，以无人知晓的方式宣传治疗方法：一个想通过假装比其他人更深入来制造噪音的人。有一天，他假装敲击一个人的大脑并从中取出水银。

‘Good gracious! what dreadful trifling with people’s constitutions!’ said Mrs. Taft.
'好亲切！塔夫脱夫人说：“这是对人民宪法的可怕玩弄！”

After this, it came to be held in various quarters that Lydgate played even with respectable constitutions for his own purposes, and how much more likely that in his flighty experimenting he should make sixes and sevens of hospital patients. Especially it was to be expected, as the landlady of the Tankard had said, that he would recklessly cut up their dead bodies. For Lydgate having attended Mrs. Goby, who died apparently of a heart-disease not very clearly expressed in the symptoms, too daringly asked leave of her relatives to open the body, and thus gave an offence quickly spreading beyond Parley Street, where that lady had long resided on an income such as made this association of her body with the victims of Burke and Hare a flagrant insult to her memory.
此后，各方都认为利德盖特甚至为了自己的目的而玩弄受人尊敬的体质，更可能的是，在他轻率的实验中，他应该让医院的病人陷入困境。尤其是，正如酒馆老板娘所说，他会不顾一切地肢解他们的尸体。利德盖特曾照顾过戈比夫人，她显然是死于心脏病，但症状中并没有很明显地表现出来，她也大胆地请求她的亲戚允许打开尸体，因此，一种冒犯很快就蔓延到了帕利街以外的地方，那位女士在那里她长期靠收入生活，这使得她的身体与伯克和黑尔受害者的联系成为对她记忆的公然侮辱。

Affairs were in this stage when Lydgate opened the subject of the Hospital to Dorothea. We see that be was bearing enmity and silly misconception with much spirit, aware that they were partly created by his good share of success.
当利德盖特向多萝西娅谈论医院的话题时，事情已经到了这个阶段。我们看到他充满敌意和愚蠢的误解，意识到这些都是他所取得的巨大成功造成的。

‘They will not drive me away,’ he said, talking confidentially in Mr. Farebrother’s study. ‘I have got a good opportunity here, for the ends I care most about; and I am pretty sure to get income enough for our wants. By-and-by I shall go on as quietly as possible: I have no seductions now away from home and work. And I am more and more convinced that it will be possible to demonstrate the homogeneous origin of all the tissues. Raspail and others are on the same track, and I have been losing time.’
“他们不会把我赶走，”他在费雷布拉泽先生的书房里私下说道。 “我在这里得到了一个很好的机会，为了我最关心的目的；我确信我的收入足以满足我们的需要。不久之后，我将尽可能安静地继续说下去：现在远离家庭和工作，我没有任何诱惑。我越来越相信，证明所有组织的同质起源是可能的。拉斯拜尔和其他人都在同一条轨道上，而我一直在浪费时间。

‘I have no power of prophecy there,’ said Mr. Farebrother, who had been puffing at his pipe thoughtfully while Lydgate talked; ‘but as to the hostility in the town, you’ll weather it if you are prudent.’
“我在那里没有预言能力，”法尔布拉泽先生说，利德盖特说话时，他一直在若有所思地抽着烟斗。 “不过，对于镇上的敌意，只要你小心谨慎，就能渡过难关。”

‘How am I to be prudent?’ said Lydgate, ‘I just do what comes before me to do. I can’t help people’s ignorance and spite, any more than Vesalius could. It isn’t possible to square one’s conduct to silly conclusions which nobody can foresee.’
“我怎样才能谨慎呢？”利德盖特说，“我只做眼前该做的事。”我无法帮助人们的无知和怨恨，就像维萨里一样。不可能将一个人的行为与任何人都无法预见的愚蠢结论相一致。

‘Quite true; I didn’t mean that. I meant only two things. One is, keep yourself as separable from Bulstrode as you can: of course, you can go on doing good work of your own by his help; but don’t get tied. Perhaps it seems like personal feeling in me to say so— and there’s a good deal of that, I own—but personal feeling is not always in the wrong if you boil it down to the impressions which make it simply an opinion.’
‘完全正确；我不是那个意思。我的意思只有两件事。一是尽可能远离布尔斯特罗德：当然，你可以在他的帮助下继续做好自己的工作；但不要被束缚。也许我这样说似乎是个人感觉——我承认有很多这样的感觉——但如果你把它归结为简单的一种观点，个人感觉并不总是错误的。

‘Bulstrode is nothing to me,’ said Lydgate, carelessly, ‘except on public grounds. As to getting very closely united to him, I am not fond enough of him for that. But what was the other thing you meant?’ said Lydgate, who was nursing his leg as comfortably as possible, and feeling in no great need of advice.
“布尔斯特罗德对我来说没什么，”利德盖特漫不经心地说，“除非是在公共场合。至于和他的关系非常密切，我对他的喜爱程度还不够。但你指的另一件事是什么？”利德盖特问道，他正在尽可能舒适地护理自己的腿，感觉并不需要什么建议。

‘Why, this. Take care—experto crede—take care not to get hampered about money matters. I know, by a word you let fall one day, that you don’t like my playing at cards so much for money. You are right enough there. But try and keep clear of wanting small sums that you haven’t got. I am perhaps talking rather superfluously; but a man likes to assume superiority over himself, by holding up his bad example and sermonizing on it.’
'为什么这个。小心——专家信条——小心不要因为金钱问题而受到阻碍。我知道，从你有一天说过的一句话来看，你不太喜欢我为了钱而打牌。你说得很对。但尽量不要想要那些你还没有得到的小钱。也许我说的是多余的；但一个人喜欢通过举起自己的坏榜样并对其进行说教来表现出对自己的优越感。

Lydgate took Mr. Farebrother’s hints very cordially, though he would hardly have borne them from another man. He could not help remembering that he had lately made some debts, but these had seemed inevitable, and he had no intention now to do more than keep house in a simple way. The furniture for which he owed would not want renewing; nor even the stock of wine for a long while.
利德盖特非常诚恳地接受了费勒布拉泽先生的暗示，尽管他很难从另一个人那里接受这些暗示。他不禁想起自己最近欠了一些债，但这些似乎是不可避免的，现在他除了简单地收拾家务外，无意做更多的事。他所欠的家具不需要更新；甚至也没有长期储存的酒。

Many thoughts cheered him at that time—and justly. A man conscious of enthusiasm for worthy aims is sustained under petty hostilities by the memory of great workers who had to fight their way not without wounds, and who hover in his mind as patron saints, invisibly helping. At home, that same evening when he had been chatting with Mr. Farebrother, he had his long legs stretched on the sofa, his head thrown back, and his hands clasped behind it according to his favorite ruminating attitude, while Rosamond sat at the piano, and played one tune after another, of which her husband only knew (like the emotional elephant he was!) that they fell in with his mood as if they had been melodious sea-breezes.
当时，许多想法让他感到高兴——而且这是合理的。一个对有价值的目标充满热情的人，即使在小小的敌对行动中，也会受到对伟大工人的记忆的支撑，这些伟大的工人必须为自己的道路而奋斗，而不是没有受伤，他们作为守护神盘旋在他的脑海中，无形中提供帮助。那天晚上，当他在家里与费雷布拉泽先生聊天时，他把长腿伸在沙发上，头向后仰，双手交叉在脑后，这是他最喜欢沉思的态度，而罗莎蒙德则坐在钢琴前。 ，并演奏了一首又一首曲子，她的丈夫只知道（就像他是一头情绪化的大象！），它们融入了他的心情，仿佛它们是悠扬的海风。

There was something very fine in Lydgate’s look just then, and any one might have been encouraged to bet on his achievement. In his dark eyes and on his mouth and brow there was that placidity which comes from the fulness of contemplative thought—the mind not searching, but beholding, and the glance seeming to be filled with what is behind it.
利德盖特当时的表情非常美好，任何人都可能会被鼓励去赌他的成就。在他的黑眼睛里，在他的嘴上和额头上，有一种平静，来自于充分的沉思——心灵不是在探索，而是在观看，而目光似乎充满了背后的东西。

Presently Rosamond left the piano and seated herself on a chair close to the sofa and opposite her husband’s face.
不久，罗莎蒙德离开了钢琴，坐在靠近沙发的椅子上，面对着她丈夫的脸。

‘Is that enough music for you, my lord?’ she said, folding her hands before her and putting on a little air of meekness.
“大人，这些音乐对您来说够了吗？”她说，双手交叉在身前，表现出一点温顺的神情。

‘Yes, dear, if you are tired,’ said Lydgate, gently, turning his eyes and resting them on her, but not otherwise moving. Rosamond’s presence at that moment was perhaps no more than a spoonful brought to the lake, and her woman’s instinct in this matter was not dull.
“是的，亲爱的，如果你累了，”利德盖特温柔地说，转动眼睛，落在她身上，但一动不动。罗莎蒙德此刻的存在也许只不过是被带到湖里的一勺而已，而她的女人在这件事上的本能并不迟钝。

‘What is absorbing you?’ she said, leaning forward and bringing her face nearer to his.
“什么让你着迷？”她说，身体前倾，把脸凑近他的脸。

He moved his hands and placed them gently behind her shoulders.
他移动双手，轻轻放在她的肩膀后面。

‘I am thinking of a great fellow, who was about as old as I am three hundred years ago, and had already begun a new era in anatomy.’
“我想到了一位伟人，他大约和我三百年前一样老，并且已经开启了解剖学的新时代。”

‘I can’t guess,’ said Rosamond, shaking her head. ‘We used to play at guessing historical characters at Mrs. Lemon’s, but not anatomists.’
“我猜不出来，”罗莎蒙德摇摇头说道。 “我们过去常常在莱蒙夫人家玩猜测历史人物的游戏，但不是解剖学家。”

‘I’ll tell you. His name was Vesalius. And the only way he could get to know anatomy as he did, was by going to snatch bodies at night, from graveyards and places of execution.’
'我会告诉你。他的名字叫维萨里。他了解解剖学的唯一方法就是晚上从墓地和刑场抢尸体。

‘Oh!’ said Rosamond, with a look of disgust on her pretty face, ‘I am very glad you are not Vesalius. I should have thought he might find some less horrible way than that.’
“哦！”罗莎蒙德说，她美丽的脸上露出厌恶的表情，“我很高兴你不是维萨里。我本应该想到他可能会找到一些比这不那么可怕的方法。

‘No, he couldn’t,’ said Lydgate, going on too earnestly to take much notice of her answer. ‘He could only get a complete skeleton by snatching the whitened bones of a criminal from the gallows, and burying them, and fetching them away by bits secretly, in the dead of night.’
“不，他不能，”利德盖特说道，语气太认真，没有太在意她的回答。 “他只能从绞刑架上抓起罪犯的白骨，埋起来，然后在夜深人静的时候偷偷地一点点搬走，才能得到一具完整的骨架。”

‘I hope he is not one of your great heroes,’ said Rosamond, half playfully, half anxiously, ‘else I shall have you getting up in the night to go to St. Peter’s churchyard. You know how angry you told me the people were about Mrs. Goby. You have enemies enough already.’
“我希望他不是你们伟大的英雄之一，”罗莎蒙德半开玩笑半焦急地说，“否则我会让你半夜起床去圣彼得教堂墓地。”你知道你告诉我人们对戈比夫人有多生气。你的敌人已经够多了。

‘So had Vesalius, Rosy. No wonder the medical fogies in Middlemarch are jealous, when some of the greatest doctors living were fierce upon Vesalius because they had believed in Galen, and he showed that Galen was wrong. They called him a liar and a poisonous monster. But the facts of the human frame were on his side; and so he got the better of them.’
“维萨里也是如此，罗西。难怪米德尔马契的医学迷们会嫉妒，当时一些最伟大的医生对维萨里很激烈，因为他们相信盖伦，而他表明盖伦是错的。他们称他为骗子和有毒的怪物。但人体的事实却站在他这一边。所以他战胜了他们。

‘And what happened to him afterwards?’ said Rosamond, with some interest.
“后来他怎么样了？”罗莎蒙德饶有兴趣地问道。

‘Oh, he had a good deal of fighting to the last. And they did exasperate him enough at one time to make him burn a good deal of his work. Then he got shipwrecked just as he was coming from Jerusalem to take a great chair at Padua. He died rather miserably.’
“哦，他一直战斗到最后。他们确实一度激怒了他，让他烧掉了很多作品。然后，正当他从耶路撒冷前往帕多瓦坐上一把大椅子时，他遭遇了海难。他死得很惨。

There was a moment’s pause before Rosamond said, ‘Do you know, Tertius, I often wish you had not been a medical man.’
罗莎蒙德停顿了一会儿，说道：“你知道吗，特蒂斯，我常常希望你不是一名医生。”

‘Nay, Rosy, don’t say that,’ said Lydgate, drawing her closer to him. ‘That is like saying you wish you had married another man.’
“不，罗西，别这么说，”利德盖特说，把她拉近了一些。 “这就像说你希望嫁给另一个男人一样。”

‘Not at all; you are clever enough for anything: you might easily have been something else. And your cousins at Quallingham all think that you have sunk below them in your choice of a profession.’
'一点也不;你对任何事情都足够聪明：你很可能会成为其他人。你在夸林厄姆的表兄弟都认为你在职业选择上已经落后于他们了。

‘The cousins at Quallingham may go to the devil!’ said Lydgate, with scorn. ‘It was like their impudence if they said anything of the sort to you.’
“夸林厄姆的表兄弟们可能见鬼去吧！”利德盖特轻蔑地说。 “如果他们对你说类似的话，那就像是他们的无礼。”

‘Still,’ said Rosamond, ‘I do NOT think it is a nice profession, dear.’ We know that she had much quiet perseverance in her opinion.
“不过，”罗莎蒙德说，“我不认为这是一个好的职业，亲爱的。”我们知道她认为她有很多安静的毅力。

‘It is the grandest profession in the world, Rosamond,’ said Lydgate, gravely. ‘And to say that you love me without loving the medical man in me, is the same sort of thing as to say that you like eating a peach but don’t like its flavor. Don’t say that again, dear, it pains me.’
“这是世界上最伟大的职业，罗莎蒙德，”利德盖特严肃地说。 ‘如果说你爱我，但不爱我身上的医生精神​​，这就像说你喜欢吃桃子，但不喜欢它的味道一样。别再说了，亲爱的，这让我很痛苦。”

‘Very well, Doctor Grave-face,’ said Rosy, dimpling, ‘I will declare in future that I dote on skeletons, and body-snatchers, and bits of things in phials, and quarrels with everybody, that end in your dying miserably.’
“很好，严肃的脸博士，”罗西满脸酒窝地说，“我将来会声明，我喜爱骷髅、抢尸者、小瓶里的东西，并且与每个人争吵，最终导致你悲惨地死去。” .'

‘No, no, not so bad as that,’ said Lydgate, giving up remonstrance and petting her resignedly.
“不，不，没那么糟糕，”利德盖特说，放弃了抗议，无奈地抚摸着她。

CHAPTER XLVI
第四十六章

Pues no podemos haber aquello que queremos, queramos aquello que podremos.
Pues no podemos haber aquello que queremos, queramos aquello que podremos。

Since we cannot get what we like, let us like what we can get.
既然我们无法得到我们喜欢的东西，那就让我们喜欢我们能得到的东西吧。

—Spanish Proverb.
——西班牙谚语。

While Lydgate, safely married and with the Hospital under his command, felt himself struggling for Medical Reform against Middlemarch, Middlemarch was becoming more and more conscious of the national struggle for another kind of Reform.
当利德盖特安全地结婚并指挥医院时，他感到自己正在为反对米德尔马奇的医疗改革而奋斗，而米德尔马奇却越来越意识到全国为另一种改革而进行的斗争。

By the time that Lord John Russell’s measure was being debated in the House of Commons, there was a new political animation in Middlemarch, and a new definition of parties which might show a decided change of balance if a new election came. And there were some who already predicted this event, declaring that a Reform Bill would never be carried by the actual Parliament. This was what Will Ladislaw dwelt on to Mr. Brooke as a reason for congratulation that he had not yet tried his strength at the hustings.
当约翰·罗素勋爵的措施在下议院进行辩论时，米德尔马契出现了新的政治活力，并且对政党有了新的定义，如果新的选举到来，这可能会显示出明显的平衡变化。有些人已经预测到了这一事件，宣称改革法案永远不会被真正的议会通过。这就是威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫对布鲁克先生反复强调的，作为祝贺他还没有在竞选中尝试自己的力量的理由。

‘Things will grow and ripen as if it were a comet year,’ said Will. ‘The public temper will soon get to a cometary heat, now the question of Reform has set in. There is likely to be another election before long, and by that time Middlemarch will have got more ideas into its head. What we have to work at now is the ‘Pioneer’ and political meetings.’
“一切都会成长、成熟，就像彗星年一样，”威尔说。 “公众的情绪很快就会变得非常激烈，现在改革的问题已经开始了。不久之后可能会举行另一次选举，到那时米德尔马奇就会有更多的想法。”我们现在要做的就是‘先锋’和政治会议。”

‘Quite right, Ladislaw; we shall make a new thing of opinion here,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘Only I want to keep myself independent about Reform, you know; I don’t want to go too far. I want to take up. Wilberforce’s and Romilly’s line, you know, and work at Negro Emancipation, Criminal Law—that kind of thing. But of course I should support Grey.’
“非常正确，拉迪斯瓦夫； “我们将在这里提出新的观点，”布鲁克先生说。 “你知道，只有我想保持自己对改革的独立；我不想走得太远。我想接手。你知道，威尔伯福斯和罗米利的路线，以及在黑人解放、刑法等方面的工作。但我当然应该支持格雷。

‘If you go in for the principle of Reform, you must be prepared to take what the situation offers,’ said Will. ‘If everybody pulled for his own bit against everybody else, the whole question would go to tatters.’
“如果你坚持改革原则，你就必须准备好接受形势所提供的一切，”威尔说。 “如果每个人都为自己的利益而反对其他人，那么整个问题就会变得支离破碎。”

‘Yes, yes, I agree with you—I quite take that point of view. I should put it in that light. I should support Grey, you know. But I don’t want to change the balance of the constitution, and I don’t think Grey would.’
“是的，是的，我同意你的观点——我非常同意这个观点。我应该这么说。我应该支持格雷，你知道的。但我不想改变宪法的平衡，我也不认为格雷会这么做。”

‘But that is what the country wants,’-said Will. ‘Else there would be no meaning in political unions or any other movement that knows what it’s about. It wants to have a House of Commons which is not weighted with nominees of the landed class, but with representatives of the other interests. And as to contending for a reform short of that, it is like asking for a bit of an avalanche which has already begun to thunder.’
“但这就是国家想要的，”威尔说。 “否则政治联盟或任何其他知道其含义的运动就没有任何意义。它希望下议院的权重不在于地主阶级的提名，而在于其他利益集团的代表。至于争取不到这一点的改革，这就像是要求一场已经开始轰鸣的雪崩。

‘That is fine, Ladislaw: that is the way to put it. Write that down, now. We must begin to get documents about the feeling of the country, as well as the machine-breaking and general distress.’
“很好，拉迪斯瓦夫：就是这样说的。现在把它写下来。我们必须开始获取有关这个国家的感受以及机器故障和普遍困境的文件。

‘As to documents,’ said Will, ‘a two-inch card will hold plenty. A few rows of figures are enough to deduce misery from, and a few more will show the rate at which the political determination of the people is growing.’
“至于文件，”威尔说，“一张两英寸的卡片就足够了。”几行数字就足以推断出苦难，再多几行数字就能显示出人民政治决心的增长速度。”

‘Good: draw that out a little more at length, Ladislaw. That is an idea, now: write it out in the ‘Pioneer.’ Put the figures and deduce the misery, you know; and put the other figures and deduce— and so on. You have a way of putting things. Burke, now:—when I think of Burke, I can’t help wishing somebody had a pocket-borough to give you, Ladislaw. You’d never get elected, you know. And we shall always want talent in the House: reform as we will, we shall always want talent. That avalanche and the thunder, now, was really a little like Burke. I want that sort of thing—not ideas, you know, but a way of putting them.’
“好：拉迪斯瓦，再详细一点。”现在，这是一个想法：把它写在《先锋报》上。你知道，放上数字并推断出痛苦；然后输入其他数字并进行推断——等等。你有办法放置东西。伯克，现在：——当我想到伯克时，我情不自禁地希望有人能给你一个小型行政区，拉迪斯瓦夫。你知道，你永远不会当选。我们将永远需要众议院的人才：无论我们如何改革，我们都将永远需要人才。那个雪崩和雷霆，现在看来，真的有点像伯克。我想要那种东西——不是想法，你知道，而是一种表达它们的方式。

‘Pocket-boroughs would be a fine thing,’ said Ladislaw, ‘if they were always in the right pocket, and there were always a Burke at hand.’
“袖珍行政区将是一件好事，”拉迪斯瓦夫说，“如果它们总是在正确的口袋里，并且总是有一个伯克在手边。”

Will was not displeased with that complimentary comparison, even from Mr. Brooke; for it is a little too trying to human flesh to be conscious of expressing one’s self better than others and never to have it noticed, and in the general dearth of admiration for the right thing, even a chance bray of applause falling exactly in time is rather fortifying. Will felt that his literary refinements were usually beyond the limits of Middlemarch perception; nevertheless, he was beginning thoroughly to like the work of which when he began he had said to himself rather languidly, ‘Why not?’—and he studied the political situation with as ardent an interest as he had ever given to poetic metres or mediaevalism. It is undeniable that but for the desire to be where Dorothea was, and perhaps the want of knowing what else to do, Will would not at this time have been meditating on the needs of the English people or criticising English statesmanship: he would probably have been rambling in Italy sketching plans for several dramas, trying prose and finding it too jejune, trying verse and finding it too artificial, beginning to copy ‘bits’ from old pictures, leaving off because they were ‘no good,’ and observing that, after all, self-culture was the principal point; while in politics he would have been sympathizing warmly with liberty and progress in general. Our sense of duty must often wait for some work which shall take the place of dilettanteism and make us feel that the quality of our action is not a matter of indifference.
威尔对这种恭维的比较并没有感到不满，即使是布鲁克先生的比较。因为对于人类来说，意识到自己比别人更好地表达自己却又不被注意到，这有点太费劲了，而且在普遍缺乏对正确事物的钦佩的情况下，即使是偶然的一声掌声恰好及时落下，也是如此。比较强化。威尔觉得他的文学修养通常超出了米德尔马奇的感知范围。然而，他开始彻底喜欢这部作品，当他开始创作时，他相当懒洋洋地对自己说：“为什么不呢？”——他以对诗律或中世纪主义的热情来研究政治局势。 。不可否认的是，如果不是因为渴望去多萝西娅所在的地方，也许是想知道还能做什么，威尔此时就不会思考英国人民的需求或批评英国的政治家风范：他可能会在意大利闲逛，为几部戏剧草拟计划，尝试散文，发现它太空洞，尝试诗歌，发现它太做作，开始复制旧照片中的“片段”，因为它们“不好”而放弃，并观察到，毕竟，自我修养才是重点。而在政治上，他会热烈地支持自由和进步。我们的责任感往往必须等待某种工作来取代业余爱好，并使我们感到我们的行动质量并非无关紧要。

Ladislaw had now accepted his bit of work, though it was not that indeterminate loftiest thing which he had once dreamed of as alone worthy of continuous effort. His nature warmed easily in the presence of subjects which were visibly mixed with life and action, and the easily stirred rebellion in him helped the glow of public spirit. In spite of Mr. Casaubon and the banishment from Lowick, he was rather happy; getting a great deal of fresh knowledge in a vivid way and for practical purposes, and making the ‘Pioneer’ celebrated as far as Brassing (never mind the smallness of the area; the writing was not worse than much that reaches the four corners of the earth).
拉迪斯瓦夫现在已经接受了他的一份工作，尽管这并不是他曾经梦想过的那种不确定的、值得持续努力的最崇高的事情。他的天性在明显与生活和行动混合在一起的主题面前很容易变得温暖，他内心容易激起的叛逆有助于激发公共精神。尽管有卡苏邦先生和被逐出洛威克，他还是相当高兴。以生动、实用的方式获得大量新鲜知识，使“先锋”的名声远至黄铜（别说面积小了；写得并不比写到书的四个角差）地球）。

Mr. Brooke was occasionally irritating; but Will’s impatience was relieved by the division of his time between visits to the Grange and retreats to his Middlemarch lodgings, which gave variety to his life.
布鲁克先生有时很烦人。但威尔的不耐烦情绪因他将时间分为参观农庄和撤退到米德尔马契的住处而缓解，这使他的生活变得丰富多彩。

‘Shift the pegs a little,’ he said to himself, ‘and Mr. Brooke might be in the Cabinet, while I was Under-Secretary. That is the common order of things: the little waves make the large ones and are of the same pattern. I am better here than in the sort of life Mr. Casaubon would have trained me for, where the doing would be all laid down by a precedent too rigid for me to react upon. I don’t care for prestige or high pay.’
“稍微移动一下钉子，”他对自己说，“布鲁克先生可能会进入内阁，而我是副国务卿。”这是事物的共同规律：小波浪形成大波浪，并且具有相同的模式。我在这里比卡苏邦先生训练我的那种生活要好，在那里，所有的行为都由一个过于严格的先例所规定，我无法做出反应。我不关心声望或高薪。

As Lydgate had said of him, he was a sort of gypsy, rather enjoying the sense of belonging to no class; he had a feeling of romance in his position, and a pleasant consciousness of creating a little surprise wherever he went. That sort of enjoyment had been disturbed when he had felt some new distance between himself and Dorothea in their accidental meeting at Lydgate’s, and his irritation had gone out towards Mr. Casaubon, who had declared beforehand that Will would lose caste. ‘I never had any caste,’ he would have said, if that prophecy had been uttered to him, and the quick blood would have come and gone like breath in his transparent skin. But it is one thing to like defiance, and another thing to like its consequences.
正如利德盖特所说，他是一个吉普赛人，很享受不属于任何阶级的感觉；他在自己的位置上有一种浪漫的感觉，并且有一种愉快的意识，无论走到哪里都会制造一点惊喜。当他和多萝西娅在利德盖特的偶然相遇中感到自己和多萝西娅之间出现了一些新的距离时，这种享受就被扰乱了，他的愤怒转向了卡苏邦先生，因为他事先宣布威尔将失去种姓。如果这个预言是对他说的，他会说：“我从来没有任何种姓。”而快速的血液就会像呼吸一样在他透明的皮肤上来来去去。但喜欢反抗是一回事，喜欢它的后果又是另一回事。

Meanwhile, the town opinion about the new editor of the ‘Pioneer’ was tending to confirm Mr. Casaubon’s view. Will’s relationship in that distinguished quarter did not, like Lydgate’s high connections, serve as an advantageous introduction: if it was rumored that young Ladislaw was Mr. Casaubon’s nephew or cousin, it was also rumored that ‘Mr. Casaubon would have nothing to do with him.’
与此同时，镇上对《先锋》新任编辑的评价也逐渐证实了卡苏邦先生的观点。威尔在那个显赫地区的关系并不像利德盖特的高层关系那样成为有利的介绍：如果有传言说年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫是卡苏邦先生的侄子或表弟，那么也有传言说“威尔先生”是卡苏邦先生的侄子或表弟。卡苏邦不会和他有任何关系。

‘Brooke has taken him up,’ said Mr. Hawley, ‘because that is what no man in his senses could have expected. Casaubon has devilish good reasons, you may be sure, for turning the cold shoulder on a young fellow whose bringing-up he paid for. Just like Brooke— one of those fellows who would praise a cat to sell a horse.’
“布鲁克已经接受了他，”霍利先生说，“因为这是任何一个有理智的人都无法预料到的。”你可以肯定，卡苏邦有充分的理由冷落一个他花钱养大的年轻人。就像布鲁克一样——那些称赞猫卖马的人。

And some oddities of Will’s, more or less poetical, appeared to support Mr. Keck, the editor of the ‘Trumpet,’ in asserting that Ladislaw, if the truth were known, was not only a Polish emissary but crack-brained, which accounted for the preternatural quickness and glibness of his speech when he got on to a platform—as he did whenever he had an opportunity, speaking with a facility which cast reflections on solid Englishmen generally. It was disgusting to Keck to see a strip of a fellow, with light curls round his head, get up and speechify by the hour against institutions ‘which had existed when he was in his cradle.’ And in a leading article of the ‘Trumpet,’ Keck characterized Ladislaw’s speech at a Reform meeting as ‘the violence of an energumen—a miserable effort to shroud in the brilliancy of fireworks the daring of irresponsible statements and the poverty of a knowledge which was of the cheapest and most recent description.’
威尔的一些奇怪之处，或多或少有些诗意，似乎支持凯克先生，《喇叭》的编辑，他断言拉迪斯瓦夫，如果真相为人所知，不仅是一名波兰使者，而且是个疯子，这说明了拉迪斯瓦夫的观点。因为当他登上讲台时，他的演讲异常敏捷和圆滑——只要有机会，他就会这么做，说话的流畅程度让一般的英国人都感到很踏实。凯克看到一个头上戴着浅色卷发的人站起来发表演讲，反对“在他的摇篮里就已经存在的机构”，这让凯克感到恶心。凯克将拉迪斯瓦夫在一次改革会议上的演讲描述为“一种能量的暴力——一种悲惨的努力，试图用烟花的灿烂来掩盖不负责任的言论的大胆和最廉价、最新描述的知识的贫乏。”

‘That was a rattling article yesterday, Keck,’ said Dr. Sprague, with sarcastic intentions. ‘But what is an energumen?’
“昨天那篇文章令人震惊，凯克，”斯普拉格博士带着讽刺的意思说道。 “但是什么是能量呢？”

‘Oh, a term that came up in the French Revolution,’ said Keck.
“哦，法国大革命中出现的一个术语，”凯克说。

This dangerous aspect of Ladislaw was strangely contrasted with other habits which became matter of remark. He had a fondness, half artistic, half affectionate, for little children—the smaller they were on tolerably active legs, and the funnier their clothing, the better Will liked to surprise and please them. We know that in Rome he was given to ramble about among the poor people, and the taste did not quit him in Middlemarch.
拉迪斯瓦夫的这一危险方面与其他引起人们关注的习惯形成了奇怪的对比。他对小孩子有一种半艺术半深情的喜爱——他们的腿越小，腿还算活跃，衣服越有趣，威尔就越喜欢给他们带来惊喜和取悦。我们知道，在罗马，他喜欢在穷人中闲逛，而在米德尔马契，他也没有放弃这种品味。

He had somehow picked up a troop of droll children, little hatless boys with their galligaskins much worn and scant shirting to hang out, little girls who tossed their hair out of their eyes to look at him, and guardian brothers at the mature age of seven. This troop he had led out on gypsy excursions to Halsell Wood at nutting-time, and since the cold weather had set in he had taken them on a clear day to gather sticks for a bonfire in the hollow of a hillside, where he drew out a small feast of gingerbread for them, and improvised a Punch-and-Judy drama with some private home-made puppets. Here was one oddity. Another was, that in houses where he got friendly, he was given to stretch himself at full length on the rug while he talked, and was apt to be discovered in this attitude by occasional callers for whom such an irregularity was likely to confirm the notions of his dangerously mixed blood and general laxity.
他不知何故捡到了一群滑稽的孩子，没有帽子的小男孩，他们的马皮已经破旧，衬衫很少，可以闲逛，小女孩把头发从眼睛里甩出来看着他，还有七岁成熟的监护人兄弟。 。他在坚果时间带领这支部队去哈塞尔伍德进行吉普赛远足，自从寒冷的天气来临之后，他就在晴朗的日子里带着他们去山坡的洼地里收集树枝生火，然后他就在那里拉出来。为他们准备了一小顿姜饼大餐，并用一些私人自制的木偶即兴表演了《潘趣与朱迪》戏剧。这里有一个奇怪的地方。另一个原因是，在他变得友好的房子里，他在说话时会在地毯上伸直身体，并且很容易被偶尔来访的人发现这种态度，对他们来说，这种不规则行为可能会证实这种想法。他危险的混血和普遍的松懈。

But Will’s articles and speeches naturally recommended him in families which the new strictness of party division had marked off on the side of Reform. He was invited to Mr. Bulstrode’s; but here he could not lie down on the rug, and Mrs. Bulstrode felt that his mode of talking about Catholic countries, as if there were any truce with Antichrist, illustrated the usual tendency to unsoundness in intellectual men.
但威尔的文章和演讲自然而然地在家庭中推荐了他，因为新的党派分裂的严格性已经使他站在了改革派一边。他被邀请去布尔斯特罗德先生家。但在这里他不能躺在地毯上，布尔斯特罗德夫人觉得他谈论天主教国家的方式，就好像与反基督者有休战一样，说明了知识分子通常的不健全倾向。

At Mr. Farebrother’s, however, whom the irony of events had brought on the same side with Bulstrode in the national movement, Will became a favorite with the ladies; especially with little Miss Noble, whom it was one of his oddities to escort when he met her in the street with her little basket, giving her his arm in the eyes of the town, and insisting on going with her to pay some call where she distributed her small filchings from her own share of sweet things.
然而，在费勒布拉泽先生家里，讽刺的是，发生的事件让他在民族运动中与布尔斯特罗德站在了同一边，威尔成了女士们的最爱。尤其是对待小诺布尔小姐，当他提着小篮子在街上遇见她时，他护送她是他的怪事之一，他在全镇人的注视下伸出手臂，坚持要和她一起去拜访她所在的地方。把她从自己那份甜食中偷来的小东西分发出去。

But the house where he visited oftenest and lay most on the rug was Lydgate’s. The two men were not at all alike, but they agreed none the worse. Lydgate was abrupt but not irritable, taking little notice of megrims in healthy people; and Ladislaw did not usually throw away his susceptibilities on those who took no notice of them. With Rosamond, on the other hand, he pouted and was wayward—nay, often uncomplimentary, much to her inward surprise; nevertheless he was gradually becoming necessary to her entertainment by his companionship in her music, his varied talk, and his freedom from the grave preoccupation which, with all her husband’s tenderness and indulgence, often made his manners unsatisfactory to her, and confirmed her dislike of the medical profession.
但他最常去的房子和躺在地毯上最多的房子是利德盖特的房子。这两个人一点也不相似，但他们的意见却丝毫不差。利德盖特很突然，但并不急躁，很少注意到健康人的megrims。拉迪斯瓦夫通常不会把自己的易感性抛给那些不注意的人。另一方面，与罗莎蒙德在一起时，他撅起嘴，任性——不，经常不恭维，这让她内心大吃一惊。然而，他逐渐成为她娱乐的必需品，他陪伴着她的音乐，他的多变的谈话，以及他摆脱了严肃的专注，而她丈夫的温柔和纵容，常常使他的举止令她不满意，并证实了她对他的厌恶。医学界。

Lydgate, inclined to be sarcastic on the superstitious faith of the people in the efficacy of ‘the bill,’ while nobody cared about the low state of pathology, sometimes assailed Will with troublesome questions. One evening in March, Rosamond in her cherry-colored dress with swansdown trimming about the throat sat at the tea-table; Lydgate, lately come in tired from his outdoor work, was seated sideways on an easy-chair by the fire with one leg over the elbow, his brow looking a little troubled as his eyes rambled over the columns of the ‘Pioneer,’ while Rosamond, having noticed that he was perturbed, avoided looking at him, and inwardly thanked heaven that she herself had not a moody disposition. Will Ladislaw was stretched on the rug contemplating the curtain-pole abstractedly, and humming very low the notes of ‘When first I saw thy face;’ while the house spaniel, also stretched out with small choice of room, looked from between his paws at the usurper of the rug with silent but strong objection.
利德盖特倾向于讽刺人们对“法案”功效的迷信，而没有人关心病态的低级状态，有时他会用一些棘手的问题攻击威尔。三月的一个晚上，罗莎蒙德穿着樱桃色连衣裙，领口饰有天鹅绒，坐在茶几旁。利德盖特刚刚从户外工作中累了回来，他侧身坐在火边的一张安乐椅上，一条腿搭在肘部，他的眉毛看起来有点困扰，眼睛在“先锋”的柱子上闲逛，而罗莎蒙德见他心烦意乱，避开看他，心里谢天谢地，自己没有喜怒无常的性格。威尔·拉迪斯瓦躺在地毯上，心不在焉地凝视着窗帘杆，低声哼着“当我第一次看到你的脸时”的曲调；而那只西班牙猎犬，也伸着懒腰，没有多少空间，从爪子之间看着篡夺地毯的人默默但强烈地反对。

Rosamond bringing Lydgate his cup of tea, he threw down the paper, and said to Will, who had started up and gone to the table—
罗莎蒙德给利德盖特端来一杯茶，他扔下报纸，对已经站起来走向桌边的威尔说——

‘It’s no use your puffing Brooke as a reforming landlord, Ladislaw: they only pick the more holes in his coat in the ‘Trumpet.’’
“拉迪斯洛，你那气喘吁吁的布鲁克作为一个改革的房东是没有用的：他们只会在‘喇叭’中挑出他外套上更多的洞。”

‘No matter; those who read the ‘Pioneer’ don’t read the ‘Trumpet,’’ said Will, swallowing his tea and walking about. ‘Do you suppose the public reads with a view to its own conversion? We should have a witches’ brewing with a vengeance then—‘Mingle, mingle, mingle, mingle, You that mingle may’—and nobody would know which side he was going to take.’
'不管;读《先锋》的人不会读《号角》。”威尔一边说着，一边喝完茶，四处走动。 “你认为公众阅读是为了改变自己的信仰吗？那么我们就应该酝酿一场复仇的女巫之战——“混在一起，混在一起，混在一起，混在一起，你可能会混在一起”——没有人知道他会站在哪一​​边。

‘Farebrother says, he doesn’t believe Brooke would get elected if the opportunity came: the very men who profess to be for him would bring another member out of the bag at the right moment.’
“费厄布拉泽说，他不相信如果机会到来，布鲁克会当选：那些自称支持他的人会在适当的时候泄露另一名成员的秘密。”

‘There’s no harm in trying. It’s good to have resident members.’
‘尝试一下总没有坏处。有常驻会员是件好事。”

‘Why?’ said Lydgate, who was much given to use that inconvenient word in a curt tone.
“为什么？”利德盖特问道，他很习惯用简短的语气使用这个不方便的词。

‘They represent the local stupidity better,’ said Will, laughing, and shaking his curls; ‘and they are kept on their best behavior in the neighborhood. Brooke is not a bad fellow, but he has done some good things on his estate that he never would have done but for this Parliamentary bite.’
“它们更能代表当地的愚蠢，”威尔笑着说道，摇晃着他的卷发。 “他们在社区里一直保持着最好的行为。”布鲁克不是一个坏人，但他在自己的庄园里做了一些好事，如果不是议会的这次行动，他永远不会做这些事。

‘He’s not fitted to be a public man,’ said Lydgate, with contemptuous decision. ‘He would disappoint everybody who counted on him: I can see that at the Hospital. Only, there Bulstrode holds the reins and drives him.’
“他不适合当一名公众人物，”利德盖特轻蔑地说道。 “他会让所有指望他的人失望：我可以在医院看到这一点。只是，布尔斯特罗德掌握着缰绳并驱动着他。

‘That depends on how you fix your standard of public men,’ said Will. ‘He’s good enough for the occasion: when the people have made up their mind as they are making it up now, they don’t want a man— they only want a vote.’
“这取决于你如何确定公职人员的标准，”威尔说。 “他足够适合这个场合：当人们像现在这样做出决定时，他们不需要一个人——他们只想要一张选票。”

‘That is the way with you political writers, Ladislaw—crying up a measure as if it were a universal cure, and crying up men who are a part of the very disease that wants curing.’
“拉迪斯瓦夫，你们这些政治作家就是这样——高喊一项措施，就好像它是一种万能药一样，而那些属于需要治愈的疾病的一部分的人又哭了。”

‘Why not? Men may help to cure themselves off the face of the land without knowing it,’ said Will, who could find reasons impromptu, when he had not thought of a question beforehand.
'为什么不？人们可能会在不知情的情况下帮助自己从这片土地上治愈自己，”威尔说，当他事先没有想到问题时，他可以即兴找到理由。

‘That is no excuse for encouraging the superstitious exaggeration of hopes about this particular measure, helping the cry to swallow it whole and to send up voting popinjays who are good for nothing but to carry it. You go against rottenness, and there is nothing more thoroughly rotten than making people believe that society can be cured by a political hocus-pocus.’
“这并不是鼓励迷信地夸大对这一特定措施的希望的借口，而是帮助呼声将其完全吞没，并派出除了执行该措施之外一无是处的选民投票。”你反对腐败，没有什么比让人们相信政治骗局可以治愈社会更彻底的腐败了。

‘That’s very fine, my dear fellow. But your cure must begin somewhere, and put it that a thousand things which debase a population can never be reformed without this particular reform to begin with. Look what Stanley said the other day—that the House had been tinkering long enough at small questions of bribery, inquiring whether this or that voter has had a guinea when everybody knows that the seats have been sold wholesale. Wait for wisdom and conscience in public agents—fiddlestick! The only conscience we can trust to is the massive sense of wrong in a class, and the best wisdom that will work is the wisdom of balancing claims. That’s my text— which side is injured? I support the man who supports their claims; not the virtuous upholder of the wrong.’
‘那很好，我亲爱的朋友。但你的治疗必须从某个地方开始，并且说，如果没有这一特定的改革，一千种贬低人口的事情就永远无法改革。看看斯坦利前几天所说的话——众议院已经在贿赂的小问题上摆弄了足够长的时间，在每个人都知道席位已被批发出售的情况下询问这个或那个选民是否有几内亚。等待公共代理人的智慧和良心——胡闹！我们唯一可以信赖的良知是阶级中存在的巨大错误感，而最有效的智慧是平衡主张的智慧。这就是我的文字——哪一侧受伤了？我支持支持他们主张的人；不是错误的道德支持者。”

‘That general talk about a particular case is mere question begging, Ladislaw. When I say, I go in for the dose that cures, it doesn’t follow that I go in for opium in a given case of gout.’
“拉迪斯瓦夫，对特定案件的一般性讨论只是在回避问题。当我说，我服用能治愈的剂量时，并不意味着我在特定的痛风病例中服用鸦片。

‘I am not begging the question we are upon—whether we are to try for nothing till we find immaculate men to work with. Should you go on that plan? If there were one man who would carry you a medical reform and another who would oppose it, should you inquire which had the better motives or even the better brains?’
“我并不是在回避我们面临的问题——我们是否应该无所事事，直到找到完美的人一起工作。你应该继续那个计划吗？如果一个人支持你推行医改，另一个人反对你，你是否应该问问谁的动机更好，甚至脑子更好？

‘Oh, of course,’ said Lydgate, seeing himself checkmated by a move which he had often used himself, ‘if one did not work with such men as are at hand, things must come to a dead-lock. Suppose the worst opinion in the town about Bulstrode were a true one, that would not make it less true that he has the sense and the resolution to do what I think ought to be done in the matters I know and care most about; but that is the only ground on which I go with him,’ Lydgate added rather proudly, bearing in mind Mr. Farebrother’s remarks. ‘He is nothing to me otherwise; I would not cry him up on any personal ground—I would keep clear of that.’
“哦，当然，”利德盖特说，他看到自己被自己经常使用的一招所围堵，“如果不与手头的人一起工作，事情就会陷入僵局。假设镇上关于布尔斯特罗德的最坏的看法是真实的，这并不会削弱他有理智和决心在我知道和最关心的事情上做我认为应该做的事情的真实性； “但这是我支持他的唯一理由，”利德盖特相当自豪地补充道，同时牢记费勒布拉泽先生的言论。 “除此之外，他对我来说什么都不是；我不会因为任何个人原因而让他哭——我会避开这一点。

‘Do you mean that I cry up Brooke on any personal ground?’ said Will Ladislaw, nettled, and turning sharp round. For the first time he felt offended with Lydgate; not the less so, perhaps, because he would have declined any close inquiry into the growth of his relation to Mr. Brooke.
“你的意思是我会因为个人原因而对布鲁克大喊大叫？”威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫生气地说，猛地转过身来。他第一次对利德盖特感到被冒犯了。或许，情况并非如此，因为他拒绝对他与布鲁克先生关系的发展进行任何仔细的调查。

‘Not at all,’ said Lydgate, ‘I was simply explaining my own action. I meant that a man may work for a special end with others whose motives and general course are equivocal, if he is quite sure of his personal independence, and that he is not working for his private interest—either place or money.’
“一点也不，”利德盖特说，“我只是在解释我自己的行为。我的意思是，如果一个人非常确定自己的个人独立性，并且他不是为了自己的私人利益（无论是地位还是金钱）而工作，那么他可以与其他动机和总体方针模棱两可的人一起为特殊目的而工作。

‘Then, why don’t you extend your liberality to others?’ said Will, still nettled. ‘My personal independence is as important to me as yours is to you. You have no more reason to imagine that I have personal expectations from Brooke, than I have to imagine that you have personal expectations from Bulstrode. Motives are points of honor, I suppose— nobody can prove them. But as to money and place in the world.’ Will ended, tossing back his head, ‘I think it is pretty clear that I am not determined by considerations of that sort.’
“那么，你为什么不向其他人伸出你的慷慨之手呢？”威尔仍然生气地说。 “我的个人独立对我来说和你的个人独立对你一样重要。你没有理由想象我对布鲁克有个人期望，就像我没有理由想象你对布尔斯特罗德有个人期望一样。我认为，动机是荣誉的体现——没有人能证明它们。但至于金钱和在世界上的地位。”威尔摇摇头，最后说道，“我想很明显，我不是由这类考虑决定的。”

‘You quite mistake me, Ladislaw,’ said Lydgate, surprised. He had been preoccupied with his own vindication, and had been blind to what Ladislaw might infer on his own account. ‘I beg your pardon for unintentionally annoying you. In fact, I should rather attribute to you a romantic disregard of your own worldly interests. On the political question, I referred simply to intellectual bias.’
“你完全误会我了，拉迪斯瓦夫，”利德盖特惊讶地说。他一直全神贯注于自己的辩护，而对拉迪斯瓦夫可能从他自己的角度推断出的东西视而不见。 ‘请原谅我无意中打扰了你。事实上，我更应该将其归因于你对自己世俗利益的浪漫漠视。在政治问题上，我简单地提到了知识偏见。

‘How very unpleasant you both are this evening!’ said Rosamond. ‘I cannot conceive why money should have been referred to. Polities and Medicine are sufficiently disagreeable to quarrel upon. You can both of you go on quarrelling with all the world and with each other on those two topics.’
“今晚你们俩真是太不愉快了！”罗莎蒙德说。 “我无法想象为什么要提及金钱。政治和医学是非常不愉快的，值得争论。你们俩可以继续在这两个话题上与全世界以及彼此争吵。

Rosamond looked mildly neutral as she said this, rising to ring the bell, and then crossing to her work-table.
罗莎蒙德说这句话时，表情显得温和中立，她起身按响了门铃，然后走到她的工作台前。

‘Poor Rosy!’ said Lydgate, putting out his hand to her as she was passing him. ‘Disputation is not amusing to cherubs. Have some music. Ask Ladislaw to sing with you.’
“可怜的罗西！”当她经过利德盖特身边时，他向她伸出了手。 ‘对于小天使来说，争论并不有趣。听点音乐。请拉迪斯瓦夫和你一起唱歌。

When Will was gone Rosamond said to her husband, ‘What put you out of temper this evening, Tertius?’
威尔走后，罗莎蒙德对她丈夫说：“特蒂斯，今晚是什么让你发脾气？”

‘Me? It was Ladislaw who was out of temper. He is like a bit of tinder.’
'我？发脾气的是拉迪斯瓦夫。他就像一个火种。

‘But I mean, before that. Something had vexed you before you came in, you looked cross. And that made you begin to dispute with Mr. Ladislaw. You hurt me very much when you look so, Tertius.’
“但我的意思是，在那之前。你进来之前有什么事让你烦恼，你看起来很生气。这让你开始与拉迪斯瓦先生发生争执。当你看起来如此时，我非常受伤，特蒂斯。

‘Do I? Then I am a brute,’ said Lydgate, caressing her penitently.
‘是吗？那我就是个畜生了。”利德盖特一边说道，一边悔恨地抚摸着她。

‘What vexed you?’
“什么让你烦恼？”

‘Oh, outdoor things—business.’ It was really a letter insisting on the payment of a bill for furniture. But Rosamond was expecting to have a baby, and Lydgate wished to save her from any perturbation.
“哦，户外活动——生意。”这实际上是一封坚持支付家具账单的信。但罗莎蒙德即将生孩子，利德盖特希望让她免受任何干扰。

CHAPTER XLVII
第四十七章

Was never true love loved in vain,
真爱从来都不是徒劳的，

For truest love is highest gain.
因为最真挚的爱就是最高的收获。

No art can make it: it must spring
没有艺术可以做到：它必须春天

Where elements are fostering.
元素正在孕育的地方。

So in heaven’s spot and hour
所以在天堂的地点和时间

Springs the little native flower,
春天的小土花，

Downward root and upward eye,
根向下，眼向上，

Shapen by the earth and sky.
由大地和天空塑造。

It happened to be on a Saturday evening that Will Ladislaw had that little discussion with Lydgate. Its effect when he went to his own rooms was to make him sit up half the night, thinking over again, under a new irritation, all that he had before thought of his having settled in Middlemarch and harnessed himself with Mr. Brooke. Hesitations before he had taken the step had since turned into susceptibility to every hint that he would have been wiser not to take it; and hence came his heat towards Lydgate—a heat which still kept him restless. Was he not making a fool of himself?— and at a time when he was more than ever conscious of being something better than a fool? And for what end?
碰巧在一个周六的晚上，威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫与利德盖特进行了一次小小的讨论。当他回到自己的房间时，它的效果是让他坐了半夜，在新的刺激下再次思考他之前在米德尔马契定居并与布鲁克先生一起束缚自己的一切。他在迈出这一步之前的犹豫，后来变成了对每一个暗示的敏感：如果他不迈出这一步，他会更明智。因此，他对利德盖特产生了热情——这种热情仍然让他坐立不安。他不是在愚弄自己吗？——而且在他比以往任何时候都更加意识到自己比傻瓜更好的时候？又是为了什么目的呢？

Well, for no definite end. True, he had dreamy visions of possibilities: there is no human being who having both passions and thoughts does not think in consequence of his passions—does not find images rising in his mind which soothe the passion with hope or sting it with dread. But this, which happens to us all, happens to some with a wide difference; and Will was not one of those whose wit ‘keeps the roadway:’ he had his bypaths where there were little joys of his own choosing, such as gentlemen cantering on the highroad might have thought rather idiotic. The way in which he made a sort of happiness for himself out of his feeling for Dorothea was an example of this. It may seem strange, but it is the fact, that the ordinary vulgar vision of which Mr. Casaubon suspected him—namely, that Dorothea might become a widow, and that the interest he had established in her mind might turn into acceptance of him as a husband— had no tempting, arresting power over him; he did not live in the scenery of such an event, and follow it out, as we all do with that imagined ‘otherwise’ which is our practical heaven. It was not only that he was unwilling to entertain thoughts which could be accused of baseness, and was already uneasy in the sense that he had to justify himself from the charge of ingratitude— the latent consciousness of many other barriers between himself and Dorothea besides the existence of her husband, had helped to turn away his imagination from speculating on what might befall Mr. Casaubon. And there were yet other reasons. Will, we know, could not bear the thought of any flaw appearing in his crystal: he was at once exasperated and delighted by the calm freedom with which Dorothea looked at him and spoke to him, and there was something so exquisite in thinking of her just as she was, that he could not long for a change which must somehow change her. Do we not shun the street version of a fine melody?—or shrink from the news that the rarity—some bit of chiselling or engraving perhaps— which we have dwelt on even with exultation in the trouble it has cost us to snatch glimpses of it, is really not an uncommon thing, and may be obtained as an every-day possession? Our good depends on the quality and breadth of our emotion; and to Will, a creature who cared little for what are called the solid things of life and greatly for its subtler influences, to have within him such a feeling as he had towards Dorothea, was like the inheritance of a fortune. What others might have called the futility of his passion, made an additional delight for his imagination: he was conscious of a generous movement, and of verifying in his own experience that higher love-poetry which had charmed his fancy. Dorothea, he said to himself, was forever enthroned in his soul: no other woman could sit higher than her footstool; and if he could have written out in immortal syllables the effect she wrought within him, he might have boasted after the example of old Drayton, that,—
好吧，没有明确的结局。诚然，他对各种可能性抱有梦幻般的幻想：凡是既有激情又有思想的人，都会根据自己的激情进行思考——他的脑海中会浮现出一些画面，这些画面可以用希望抚平激情，也可以用恐惧刺痛激情。但这种情况发生在我们所有人身上，也发生在一些差异很大的人身上。威尔并不是那些用智慧“保持道路”的人之一：他有自己的小路，那里没有他自己选择的乐趣，就像在大路上慢跑的绅士们可能会认为相当愚蠢的那样。他从对多萝西娅的感情中为自己创造了某种幸福就是一个例子。这可能看起来很奇怪，但事实就是卡苏邦先生怀疑他的普通庸俗愿景——即多萝西娅可能会成为寡妇，而他在她心目中建立的兴趣可能会转变为接受他为寡妇。丈夫——对他没有诱惑力、拘束力；他并没有生活在这样一个事件的场景中，并遵循它，就像我们所有人对想象的“否则”，即我们实际的天堂所做的那样。这不仅是因为他不愿意考虑那些可能被指责为卑鄙的想法，而且他已经感到不安，因为他必须为自己的忘恩负义的指控辩护——他和多萝西娅之间潜在的意识除了她丈夫的存在，帮助他转移了对卡苏邦先生可能遭遇的事情的想象。还有其他原因。 我们知道，威尔无法忍受他的水晶中出现任何缺陷：多萝西娅看着他并与他说话时的平静自由，让他立即感到愤怒和高兴，想到她有一种如此美妙的感觉。正如她一样，他不能渴望某种改变，而这种改变必须以某种方式改变她。难道我们不会回避一首优美旋律的街头版本吗？——或者对这种稀有性——也许是一些凿刻或雕刻——的消息感到畏惧，尽管我们为瞥见它而付出的代价而欣喜若狂，但我们一直在关注它。 ，真的不是什么稀奇的东西，可以作为日常拥有品获得吗？我们的善行取决于我们情感的质量和广度；对于威尔这样一个不太关心生活中所谓的实体事物而非常关心其微妙影响的人来说，拥有像对多萝西娅那样的感情，就像继承了一笔财富。其他人可能认为他的激情是徒劳的，却为他的想象力增添了额外的乐趣：他意识到一种慷慨的举动，并在他自己的经验中证实了令他着迷的更高层次的爱情诗。 他对自己说，多萝西娅永远在他的灵魂中占据着王位：没有其他女人可以坐得比她的脚凳还高；她的脚凳比她的脚凳高。如果他能用不朽的音节写出她对他产生的影响，他可能会效仿老德雷顿的例子，夸耀说：

‘Queens hereafter might be glad to live
“今后的女王们可能会很高兴生活

Upon the alms of her superfluous praise.’
靠的是她多余的赞美的施舍。

But this result was questionable. And what else could he do for Dorothea? What was his devotion worth to her? It was impossible to tell. He would not go out of her reach. He saw no creature among her friends to whom he could believe that she spoke with the same simple confidence as to him. She had once said that she would like him to stay; and stay he would, whatever fire-breathing dragons might hiss around her.
但这个结果值得商榷。他还能为多萝西娅做些什么呢？他对她的付出又有什么价值呢？这很难说。他不会离开她的范围。在她的朋友中，他看不到任何人可以相信她对他说话时的语气和对他一样简单而自信。她曾经说过，她希望他留下来；但现在她已经答应了。无论喷火龙在她周围发出怎样的嘶嘶声，他都会留下来。

This had always been the conclusion of Will’s hesitations. But he was not without contradictoriness and rebellion even towards his own resolve. He had often got irritated, as he was on this particular night, by some outside demonstration that his public exertions with Mr. Brooke as a chief could not seem as heroic as he would like them to be, and this was always associated with the other ground of irritation—that notwithstanding his sacrifice of dignity for Dorothea’s sake, he could hardly ever see her. Whereupon, not being able to contradict these unpleasant facts, he contradicted his own strongest bias and said, ‘I am a fool.’
这一直是威尔犹豫不决的结论。但他对自己的决心也并非没有矛盾和反叛。就像在这个特别的夜晚一样，他经常因为一些外界的表现而感到恼火，这些表现表明他与布鲁克先生作为酋长的公开努力似乎并不像他希望的那样英勇，而这总是与其他人联系在一起。令人恼火的原因是——尽管他为了多萝西娅牺牲了尊严，但他却几乎看不到她。于是，由于无法反驳这些令人不快的事实，他反驳了自己最强烈的偏见，并说：“我是个傻瓜。”

Nevertheless, since the inward debate necessarily turned on Dorothea, he ended, as he had done before, only by getting a livelier sense of what her presence would be to him; and suddenly reflecting that the morrow would be Sunday, he determined to go to Lowick Church and see her. He slept upon that idea, but when he was dressing in the rational morning light, Objection said—
尽管如此，由于内心的争论必然会转向多萝西娅，所以他就像以前所做的那样，只是更加生动地意识到她的存在对他来说意味着什么；然后他就结束了。突然想到明天就是周日，他决定去洛伊克教堂看看她。他抱着这个想法入睡，但当他在理性的晨光中穿衣时，反对说——

‘That will be a virtual defiance of Mr. Casaubon’s prohibition to visit Lowick, and Dorothea will be displeased.’
“这实际上是对卡苏邦先生访问洛威克禁令的蔑视，多萝西娅会很不高兴。”

‘Nonsense!’ argued Inclination, ‘it would be too monstrous for him to hinder me from going out to a pretty country church on a spring morning. And Dorothea will be glad.’
“胡说！”倾向争辩道，“如果他阻止我在春天的早晨去一座美丽的乡村教堂，那就太可怕了。多萝西娅会很高兴的。

‘It will be clear to Mr. Casaubon that you have come either to annoy him or to see Dorothea.’
“卡苏邦先生很清楚，你来这里要么是为了惹恼他，要么是为了见多萝西娅。”

‘It is not true that I go to annoy him, and why should I not go to see Dorothea? Is he to have everything to himself and be always comfortable? Let him smart a little, as other people are obliged to do. I have always liked the quaintness of the church and congregation; besides, I know the Tuckers: I shall go into their pew.’
“我并不是去惹恼他，我为什么不去见多萝西娅呢？”他是否应该拥有一切并始终感到舒适？让他聪明一点，就像其他人有义务做的那样。我一直很喜欢教堂和会众的古色古香。此外，我认识塔克一家：我会坐在他们的座位上。

Having silenced Objection by force of unreason, Will walked to Lowick as if he had been on the way to Paradise, crossing Halsell Common and skirting the wood, where the sunlight fell broadly under the budding boughs, bringing out the beauties of moss and lichen, and fresh green growths piercing the brown. Everything seemed to know that it was Sunday, and to approve of his going to Lowick Church. Will easily felt happy when nothing crossed his humor, and by this time the thought of vexing Mr. Casaubon had become rather amusing to him, making his face break into its merry smile, pleasant to see as the breaking of sunshine on the water—though the occasion was not exemplary. But most of us are apt to settle within ourselves that the man who blocks our way is odious, and not to mind causing him a little of the disgust which his personality excites in ourselves. Will went along with a small book under his arm and a hand in each side-pocket, never reading, but chanting a little, as he made scenes of what would happen in church and coming out. He was experimenting in tunes to suit some words of his own, sometimes trying a ready-made melody, sometimes improvising. The words were not exactly a hymn, but they certainly fitted his Sunday experience:—
威尔用非理性的力量压制了反对意见，然后朝洛威克走去，仿佛他正走在通往天堂的路上，穿过哈塞尔公地，绕过树林，阳光大范围地落在发芽的树枝下，衬托出苔藓和地衣的美丽，新鲜的绿色植物刺穿棕色。一切似乎都知道今天是星期天，都同意他去洛威克教堂。当没有任何事情违背他的幽默感时，威尔很容易感到高兴，而此时，让卡苏邦先生烦恼的想法对他来说变得相当有趣，让他的脸绽放出快乐的微笑，令人愉快地看到阳光照在水面上——尽管这次事件并不具有典范性。但我们大多数人都倾向于认为挡住我们道路的人是可憎的，并且不介意让他的个性在我们心中激起一点厌恶。威尔腋下夹着一本小书，一只手插在侧袋里，他从不读书，只是唱了一点歌，同时描绘了教堂里和出来时会发生的事情。他不断尝试曲调来适应自己的一些歌词，有时尝试现成的旋律，有时即兴发挥。这些话并不完全是一首赞美诗，但它们确实适合他周日的经历：——

‘O me, O me, what frugal cheer
‘哦我，哦我，多么节俭的欢呼啊

My love doth feed upon!
我的爱不断汲取！

A touch, a ray, that is not here,
一次触摸，一道光线，但不在这里，

A shadow that is gone:
消失的影子：

‘A dream of breath that might be near,
“呼吸的梦想可能就在眼前，

An inly-echoed tone,
内心回响的声音，

The thought that one may think me dear,
一想到有人会认为我是亲爱的，

The place where one was known,
一个人认识的地方，

‘The tremor of a banished fear,
‘被驱散的恐惧所带来的颤抖，

An ill that was not done—
未曾做过的恶事——

O me, O me, what frugal cheer
哦我，哦我，多么节俭的欢乐啊

My love doth feed upon!’
我的爱不断汲取！

Sometimes, when he took off his hat, shaking his head backward, and showing his delicate throat as he sang, he looked like an incarnation of the spring whose spirit filled the air—a bright creature, abundant in uncertain promises.
有时，当他摘下帽子，向后​​摇头，露出纤细的喉咙唱歌时，他看起来就像春天的化身，充满了空气——一个明亮的生物，充满了不确定的承诺。

The bells were still ringing when he got to Lowick, and he went into the curate’s pew before any one else arrived there. But he was still left alone in it when the congregation had assembled. The curate’s pew was opposite the rector’s at the entrance of the small chancel, and Will had time to fear that Dorothea might not come while he looked round at the group of rural faces which made the congregation from year to year within the white-washed walls and dark old pews, hardly with more change than we see in the boughs of a tree which breaks here and there with age, but yet has young shoots. Mr. Rigg’s frog-face was something alien and unaccountable, but notwithstanding this shock to the order of things, there were still the Waules and the rural stock of the Powderells in their pews side by side; brother Samuel’s cheek had the same purple round as ever, and the three generations of decent cottagers came as of old with a sense of duty to their betters generally— the smaller children regarding Mr. Casaubon, who wore the black gown and mounted to the highest box, as probably the chief of all betters, and the one most awful if offended. Even in 1831 Lowick was at peace, not more agitated by Reform than by the solemn tenor of the Sunday sermon. The congregation had been used to seeing Will at church in former days, and no one took much note of him except the choir, who expected him to make a figure in the singing.
当他到达洛威克时，钟声还在响，他在其他人到达之前就坐进了牧师的座位。但当会众聚集时，他仍然独自一人在里面。牧师的长椅在小圣坛入口处的教区长的对面，威尔有时间担心多萝西娅可能不会来，同时他环顾四周，看到一群乡村面孔，年复一年地在粉刷成白色的墙壁里聚集了会众。黑色的老长凳，几乎没有比我们在一棵树的树枝上看到的变化更多的东西，这些树枝随着年龄的增长到处断裂，但仍然有嫩芽。里格先生的青蛙脸显得有些陌生和不可理喻，但尽管对事物的秩序造成了如此冲击，沃勒斯家族和乡村的波德德尔家族仍然并排坐在他们的长凳上；弟弟塞缪尔的脸颊还是一如既往的紫色圆润，三代正派的农夫一如往常地对长辈抱有一种责任感——较小的孩子们就是卡苏邦先生，他穿着黑色长袍，登上了最高的台阶。盒子，可能是所有更好的东西中的佼佼者，如果被冒犯的话，也是最可怕的。即使在 1831 年，洛威克仍然很平静，宗教改革并不比周日布道的庄严基调更让他激动。以前，会众们已经习惯在教堂里见到威尔，除了唱诗班之外，没有人太注意他，他们希望他能在歌声中崭露头角。

Dorothea did at last appear on this quaint background, walking up the short aisle in her white beaver bonnet and gray cloak—the same she had worn in the Vatican. Her face being, from her entrance, towards the chancel, even her shortsighted eyes soon discerned Will, but there was no outward show of her feeling except a slight paleness and a grave bow as she passed him. To his own surprise Will felt suddenly uncomfortable, and dared not look at her after they had bowed to each other. Two minutes later, when Mr. Casaubon came out of the vestry, and, entering the pew, seated himself in face of Dorothea, Will felt his paralysis more complete. He could look nowhere except at the choir in the little gallery over the vestry-door: Dorothea was perhaps pained, and he had made a wretched blunder. It was no longer amusing to vex Mr. Casaubon, who had the advantage probably of watching him and seeing that he dared not turn his head. Why had he not imagined this beforehand?— but he could not expect that he should sit in that square pew alone, unrelieved by any Tuckers, who had apparently departed from Lowick altogether, for a new clergyman was in the desk. Still he called himself stupid now for not foreseeing that it would be impossible for him to look towards Dorothea—nay, that she might feel his coming an impertinence. There was no delivering himself from his cage, however; and Will found his places and looked at his book as if he had been a school-mistress, feeling that the morning service had never been so immeasurably long before, that he was utterly ridiculous, out of temper, and miserable. This was what a man got by worshipping the sight of a woman! The clerk observed with surprise that Mr. Ladislaw did not join in the tune of Hanover, and reflected that he might have a cold.
多萝西娅终于出现在这个古色古香的背景中，戴着白色海狸软帽，穿着灰色斗篷——她在梵蒂冈穿的同样的衣服——走在短过道上。她的脸从入口处朝向圣坛，就连她那双近视的眼睛也很快就认出了威尔，但她没有任何外在表现出她的感觉，只是当她经过他身边时，脸色有些苍白，深深地鞠了一躬。令他自己惊讶的是，威尔突然感到不舒服，在他们互相鞠躬后不敢看她。两分钟后，当卡苏邦先生从礼拜室出来，进入长凳，在多萝西娅面前坐下时，威尔感觉自己的瘫痪更加彻底了。除了法室门上方小走廊里的唱诗班外，他什么也看不见：多萝西娅也许很痛苦，而他犯了一个可悲的错误。惹恼卡苏邦先生已经不再是一件有趣的事了，他的优势可能是看着他，发现他不敢回头。为什么他事先没有想到这一点？——但他不能指望他会独自坐在那张方形长椅上，没有任何塔克家族的人来安慰，塔克家族显然已经完全离开了洛伊克，因为桌子上坐着一位新牧师。但他现在仍称自己愚蠢，因为没有预见到他不可能看向多萝西娅——不，她可能会觉得他的到来是一种无礼。然而，他却无法从笼子里挣脱出来。威尔找到了自己的位置，看着自己的书，就好像他是一位女校长一样，感觉早上的礼拜从来没有这么漫长过，他完全可笑，脾气暴躁，而且痛苦不堪。这就是男人崇拜女人的结果！店员惊讶地发现拉迪斯瓦夫先生没有加入汉诺威的曲调，并认为他可能感冒了。

Mr. Casaubon did not preach that morning, and there was no change in Will’s situation until the blessing had been pronounced and every one rose. It was the fashion at Lowick for ‘the betters’ to go out first. With a sudden determination to break the spell that was upon him, Will looked straight at Mr. Casaubon. But that gentleman’s eyes were on the button of the pew-door, which he opened, allowing Dorothea to pass, and following her immediately without raising his eyelids. Will’s glance had caught Dorothea’s as she turned out of the pew, and again she bowed, but this time with a look of agitation, as if she were repressing tears. Will walked out after them, but they went on towards the little gate leading out of the churchyard into the shrubbery, never looking round.
那天早上卡苏邦先生没有讲道，直到祝福声宣布完毕、每个人都起身之后，威尔的情况才发生了变化。在洛威克，“优秀者”先出去是一种时尚。威尔突然下定决心要打破身上的魔咒，他直视着卡苏邦先生。但那位绅士的目光落在了座位门的按钮上，他打开了门，让多萝西娅通过，然后连眼皮都没抬起就立即跟了上去。当多萝西娅走出长凳时，威尔的目光与她对视了一眼，她再次鞠了个躬，但这次的表情很激动，仿佛在强忍泪水。威尔跟在他们后面走了出去，但他们继续朝那扇从小墓地通向灌木丛的小门走去，没有回头看一眼。

It was impossible for him to follow them, and he could only walk back sadly at mid-day along the same road which he had trodden hopefully in the morning. The lights were all changed for him both without and within.
他不可能跟上他们，只能在中午悲伤地沿着早上满怀希望走过的那条路走回去。无论是外表还是内在，灯光都变了。

CHAPTER XLVIII
第四十八章

Surely the golden hours are turning gray
黄金时段肯定正在变成灰色

And dance no more, and vainly strive to run:
不再跳舞，徒劳地努力奔跑：

I see their white locks streaming in the wind—
我看到她们的白发在风中飘扬——

Each face is haggard as it looks at me,
每一张脸都憔悴地看着我，

Slow turning in the constant clasping round
在不断的紧握轮中缓慢转动

Storm-driven.
风暴驱动。

Dorothea’s distress when she was leaving the church came chiefly from the perception that Mr. Casaubon was determined not to speak to his cousin, and that Will’s presence at church had served to mark more strongly the alienation between them. Will’s coming seemed to her quite excusable, nay, she thought it an amiable movement in him towards a reconciliation which she herself had been constantly wishing for. He had probably imagined, as she had, that if Mr. Casaubon and he could meet easily, they would shake hands and friendly intercourse might return. But now Dorothea felt quite robbed of that hope. Will was banished further than ever, for Mr. Casaubon must have been newly embittered by this thrusting upon him of a presence which he refused to recognize.
当多萝西娅离开教堂时，她的痛苦主要来自于卡苏邦先生决心不和他的表弟说话，而威尔出现在教堂更强烈地标志着他们之间的疏远。在她看来，威尔的到来是情有可原的，不，她认为这是他为了实现她自己一直渴望的和解而做出的和蔼可亲的举动。他可能和她一样，也想象过，如果卡苏邦先生和他能轻松见面，他们就会握手，友好的交往可能会恢复。但现在多萝西娅觉得这个希望完全被剥夺了。威尔比以往任何时候都更加被放逐，因为卡苏邦先生肯定因为这个他拒绝承认的存在强加在他身上而感到痛苦。

He had not been very well that morning, suffering from some difficulty in breathing, and had not preached in consequence; she was not surprised, therefore, that he was nearly silent at luncheon, still less that he made no allusion to Will Ladislaw. For her own part she felt that she could never again introduce that subject. They usually spent apart the hours between luncheon and dinner on a Sunday; Mr. Casaubon in the library dozing chiefly, and Dorothea in her boudoir, where she was wont to occupy herself with some of her favorite books. There was a little heap of them on the table in the bow-window—of various sorts, from Herodotus, which she was learning to read with Mr. Casaubon, to her old companion Pascal, and Keble’s ‘Christian Year.’ But to-day opened one after another, and could read none of them. Everything seemed dreary: the portents before the birth of Cyrus— Jewish antiquities—oh dear!—devout epigrams—the sacred chime of favorite hymns—all alike were as flat as tunes beaten on wood: even the spring flowers and the grass had a dull shiver in them under the afternoon clouds that hid the sun fitfully; even the sustaining thoughts which had become habits seemed to have in them the weariness of long future days in which she would still live with them for her sole companions. It was another or rather a fuller sort of companionship that poor Dorothea was hungering for, and the hunger had grown from the perpetual effort demanded by her married life. She was always trying to be what her husband wished, and never able to repose on his delight in what she was. The thing that she liked, that she spontaneously cared to have, seemed to be always excluded from her life; for if it was only granted and not shared by her husband it might as well have been denied. About Will Ladislaw there had been a difference between them from the first, and it had ended, since Mr. Casaubon had so severely repulsed Dorothea’s strong feeling about his claims on the family property, by her being convinced that she was in the right and her husband in the wrong, but that she was helpless. This afternoon the helplessness was more wretchedly benumbing than ever: she longed for objects who could be dear to her, and to whom she could be dear. She longed for work which would be directly beneficent like the sunshine and the rain, and now it appeared that she was to live more and more in a virtual tomb, where there was the apparatus of a ghastly labor producing what would never see the light. Today she had stood at the door of the tomb and seen Will Ladislaw receding into the distant world of warm activity and fellowship— turning his face towards her as he went.
那天早上他身体不太好，呼吸有些困难，因此没有讲道。因此，对于他在午餐时几乎保持沉默，更不用说他没有提及威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫，她并不感到惊讶。就她自己而言，她觉得自己再也不能介绍这个话题了。他们通常在周日的午餐和晚餐之间分开度过。卡苏邦先生主要在图书馆里打瞌睡，多萝西娅则在她的闺房里，她习惯于在那里阅读一些她最喜欢的书。弓窗的桌子上有一小堆书——各种各样，从希罗多德的书（她正在和卡苏朋先生一起学读）到她的老朋友帕斯卡的书，还有基布尔的《基督教年》。日子一天又一天地打开，却读不完。一切都显得沉闷：居鲁士出生前的预兆——犹太古物——天哪！——虔诚的警句——人们喜爱的赞美诗的神圣钟声——全都像在木头上敲打的曲子一样平淡：连春天的花儿和小草都黯淡无光。在午后时断时续地遮住太阳的云层下，他们在颤抖；甚至那些已经成为习惯的持续的想法似乎也带着对未来漫长日子的厌倦，在未来的日子里，她仍然会和他们一起生活，成为她唯一的同伴。这是可怜的多萝西娅所渴望的另一种陪伴，或者更确切地说是一种更全面的陪伴，而这种渴望是由于她婚姻生活所要求的不断努力而增长的。她总是努力成为丈夫所希望的那样，却始终无法满足他对她的喜悦。她喜欢的东西，她自发地想要拥有的东西，似乎总是被排除在她的生活之外；因为如果只是授予了她的丈夫而不分享的话，那还不如被拒绝。 关于威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫，他们之间从一开始就存在着分歧，而且这种分歧已经结束了，因为卡苏邦先生强烈反对多萝西娅对他对家族财产的主张的强烈感觉，因为她确信自己是对的，而且她也认为自己是对的。丈夫的错，只是她的无奈。今天下午，这种无助感比以往任何时候都更加令人痛苦和麻木：她渴望那些对她来说是珍贵的东西，对她来说也是珍贵的。她渴望从事像阳光和雨水一样直接有益的工作，而现在看来，她越来越生活在一个虚拟的坟墓里，那里有可怕的劳动设备，生产着永远见不到光的东西。今天，她站在坟墓门口，看到威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫退入遥远的、充满热情的活动和友谊的世界——走的时候把脸转向她。

Books were of no use. Thinking was of no use. It was Sunday, and she could not have the carriage to go to Celia, who had lately had a baby. There was no refuge now from spiritual emptiness and discontent, and Dorothea had to bear her bad mood, as she would have borne a headache.
书本没有任何用处。思考是没有用的。那天是星期天，她没有马车去见刚刚生完孩子的西莉亚。现在，精神上的空虚和不满已经无处可逃，多萝西娅不得不忍受自己的坏心情，因为她会头痛。

After dinner, at the hour when she usually began to read aloud, Mr. Casaubon proposed that they should go into the library, where, he said, he had ordered a fire and lights. He seemed to have revived, and to be thinking intently.
晚饭后，也就是她通常开始大声朗读的时间，卡苏邦先生提议他们应该去图书馆，他说，他已经下令在图书馆生火和照明。他似乎又苏醒了，并且开始专心思考。

In the library Dorothea observed that he had newly arranged a row of his note-books on a table, and now he took up and put into her hand a well-known volume, which was a table of contents to all the others.
在图书馆里，多萝西娅注意到他在桌子上新摆了一排笔记本，现在他拿起一本熟悉的书，放在她手里，这对其他所有人来说都是一个目录。

‘You will oblige me, my dear,’ he said, seating himself, ‘if instead of other reading this evening, you will go through this aloud, pencil in hand, and at each point where I say ‘mark,’ will make a cross with your pencil. This is the first step in a sifting process which I have long had in view, and as we go on I shall be able to indicate to you certain principles of selection whereby you will, I trust, have an intelligent participation in my purpose.’
“亲爱的，你会帮我的忙，”他一边坐下一边说道，“如果你今天晚上不用读其他书，而是用手中的铅笔大声读一遍这篇文章，并在我说‘记号’的每一点上做一个记号。”用你的铅笔划十字。这是我长期以来一直考虑的筛选过程的第一步，随着我们的继续，我将能够向您表明某些选择原则，我相信您将明智地参与我的目的。

This proposal was only one more sign added to many since his memorable interview with Lydgate, that Mr. Casaubon’s original reluctance to let Dorothea work with him had given place to the contrary disposition, namely, to demand much interest and labor from her.
自从他与利德盖特进行令人难忘的采访以来，这一提议只是又一个迹象，表明卡苏邦先生最初不愿意让多萝西娅与他一起工作，现在已被相反的性格所取代，即要求她付出更多的兴趣和劳动。

After she had read and marked for two hours, he said, ‘We will take the volume up-stairs—and the pencil, if you please— and in case of reading in the night, we can pursue this task. It is not wearisome to you, I trust, Dorothea?’
在她读完并标记了两个小时后，他说：“我们会把这本书带到楼上——如果你愿意的话，还有铅笔——如果晚上读书，我们可以继续这项任务。”我相信，这对你来说并不令人厌烦，多萝西娅？

‘I prefer always reading what you like best to hear,’ said Dorothea, who told the simple truth; for what she dreaded was to exert herself in reading or anything else which left him as joyless as ever.
“我更喜欢读你最喜欢听的内容，”多萝西娅说道，她说出了简单的事实。因为她害怕的是用力读书或做其他让他一如既往不快乐的事情。

It was a proof of the force with which certain characteristics in Dorothea impressed those around her, that her husband, with all his jealousy and suspicion, had gathered implicit trust in the integrity of her promises, and her power of devoting herself to her idea of the right and best. Of late he had begun to feel that these qualities were a peculiar possession for himself, and he wanted to engross them.
这证明了多萝西娅的某些特质给她周围的人留下了深刻的印象，她的丈夫尽管充满嫉妒和怀疑，却对她的承诺的完整性和她全身心投入到自己的想法中的力量产生了绝对的信任。正确和最好的。最近，他开始觉得这些品质对自己来说是一种特殊的拥有，他想要全神贯注于它们。

The reading in the night did come. Dorothea in her young weariness had slept soon and fast: she was awakened by a sense of light, which seemed to her at first like a sudden vision of sunset after she had climbed a steep hill: she opened her eyes and saw her husband wrapped in his warm gown seating himself in the arm-chair near the fire-place where the embers were still glowing. He had lit two candles, expecting that Dorothea would awake, but not liking to rouse her by more direct means.
夜读确实来了。多萝西娅在她年轻的疲倦中很快就睡着了：她被一种光的感觉唤醒，这对她来说起初似乎是她爬上陡峭的山坡后突然看到的日落：她睁开眼睛，看到她的丈夫裹着他穿着温暖的长袍，坐在壁炉旁的扶手椅上，壁炉里的余烬仍然在燃烧。他点燃了两根蜡烛，期待多萝西娅会醒来，但不想用更直接的方式唤醒她。

‘Are you ill, Edward?’ she said, rising immediately.
“你病了吗，爱德华？”她立即站了起来。

‘I felt some uneasiness in a reclining posture. I will sit here for a time.’ She threw wood on the fire, wrapped herself up, and said, ‘You would like me to read to you?’
“我在躺着的姿势中感到有些不安。我会在这里坐一会儿。”她把木头扔到火上，把自己裹起来，说：“你想让我念书给你听吗？

‘You would oblige me greatly by doing so, Dorothea,’ said Mr. Casaubon, with a shade more meekness than usual in his polite manner. ‘I am wakeful: my mind is remarkably lucid.’
“多萝西娅，你这样做真是太感激我了，”卡苏邦先生说道，他的礼貌态度比平时更加​​温和。 “我醒了：我的头脑非常清醒。”

‘I fear that the excitement may be too great for you,’ said Dorothea, remembering Lydgate’s cautions.
“我担心这种兴奋对你来说可能太大了，”多萝西娅说道，想起了利德盖特的警告。

‘No, I am not conscious of undue excitement. Thought is easy.’ Dorothea dared not insist, and she read for an hour or more on the same plan as she had done in the evening, but getting over the pages with more quickness. Mr. Casaubon’s mind was more alert, and he seemed to anticipate what was coming after a very slight verbal indication, saying, ‘That will do—mark that’—or ‘Pass on to the next head—I omit the second excursus on Crete.’ Dorothea was amazed to think of the bird-like speed with which his mind was surveying the ground where it had been creeping for years. At last he said—
“不，我没有意识到过度的兴奋。思考很容易。”多萝西娅不敢坚持，她按照晚上的计划读了一个多小时，但翻得更快了。卡苏邦先生的头脑更加警觉，他似乎预见到了在一个非常轻微的口头指示后会发生什么，他说，“那就行了——记下这一点”——或者“转到下一个标题——我省略了关于克里特岛的第二个附注多萝西娅惊讶地想到，他的思绪以鸟类般的速度审视着多年来一直在爬行的地面。最后他说——

‘Close the book now, my dear. We will resume our work to-morrow. I have deferred it too long, and would gladly see it completed. But you observe that the principle on which my selection is made, is to give adequate, and not disproportionate illustration to each of the theses enumerated in my introduction, as at present sketched. You have perceived that distinctly, Dorothea?’
“现在合上书吧，亲爱的。我们明天将恢复工作。我已经推迟了太久，很高兴看到它完成。但你注意到，我的选择的原则是对我引言中列举的每一个论点（如目前所概述的）给出充分的、而不是不成比例的说明。你已经清楚地意识到这一点了吗，多萝西娅？

‘Yes,’ said Dorothea, rather tremulously. She felt sick at heart.
“是的，”多萝西娅相当颤抖地说。她心里一阵难受。

‘And now I think that I can take some repose,’ said Mr. Casaubon. He laid down again and begged her to put out the lights. When she had lain down too, and there was a darkness only broken by a dull glow on the hearth, he said—
“现在我想我可以休息一下了，”卡苏邦先生说。他又躺了下来，恳求她把灯关掉。当她也躺下时，只有炉边的昏暗光芒打破了黑暗，他说——

‘Before I sleep, I have a request to make, Dorothea.’
“在我睡觉之前，我有一个请求，多萝西娅。”

‘What is it?’ said Dorothea, with dread in her mind.
“这是什么？”多萝西娅心中充满恐惧问道。

‘It is that you will let me know, deliberately, whether, in case of my death, you will carry out my wishes: whether you will avoid doing what I should deprecate, and apply yourself to do what I should desire.’
“你会故意让我知道，如果我死了，你是否会实现我的愿望：你是否会避免做我应该反对的事情，而致力于做我应该做的事情。”

Dorothea was not taken by surprise: many incidents had been leading her to the conjecture of some intention on her husband’s part which might make a new yoke for her. She did not answer immediately.
多萝西娅并不感到惊讶：许多事件让她猜测她丈夫可能有某种意图，这可能会给她带来新的枷锁。她没有立即回答。

‘You refuse?’ said Mr. Casaubon, with more edge in his tone.
“你拒绝？”卡苏邦先生说道，语气更加尖锐了。

‘No, I do not yet refuse,’ said Dorothea, in a clear voice, the need of freedom asserting itself within her; ‘but it is too solemn— I think it is not right—to make a promise when I am ignorant what it will bind me to. Whatever affection prompted I would do without promising.’
“不，我还没有拒绝。”多萝西娅用清晰的声音说道，她内心渴望自由。 “但是，当我不知道承诺将如何约束我时，做出承诺就太庄严了——我认为这是不对的。”无论感情激发什么，我都会去做，但不会做出任何承诺。

‘But you would use your own judgment: I ask you to obey mine; you refuse.’
“但你会用你自己的判断：我要求你服从我的；你拒绝。

‘No, dear, no!’ said Dorothea, beseechingly, crushed by opposing fears. ‘But may I wait and reflect a little while? I desire with my whole soul to do what will comfort you; but I cannot give any pledge suddenly— still less a pledge to do I know not what.’
“不，亲爱的，不！”多萝西娅恳求地说，被相反的恐惧压垮了。 “但是我可以等一下并思考一下吗？”我全心全意地渴望做一些能让你感到安慰的事情；但我不能突然做出任何承诺——更不用说承诺做我不知道的事情了。

‘You cannot then confide in the nature of my wishes?’
“那么你就不能相信我的愿望吗？”

‘Grant me till to-morrow,’ said Dorothea, beseechingly.
“请允许我等到明天，”多萝西娅恳求地说。

‘Till to-morrow then,’ said Mr. Casaubon.
“那就到明天吧，”卡苏邦先生说。

Soon she could hear that he was sleeping, but there was no more sleep for her. While she constrained herself to lie still lest she should disturb him, her mind was carrying on a conflict in which imagination ranged its forces first on one side and then on the other. She had no presentiment that the power which her husband wished to establish over her future action had relation to anything else than his work. But it was clear enough to her that he would expect her to devote herself to sifting those mixed heaps of material, which were to be the doubtful illustration of principles still more doubtful. The poor child had become altogether unbelieving as to the trustworthiness of that Key which had made the ambition and the labor of her husband’s life. It was not wonderful that, in spite of her small instruction, her judgment in this matter was truer than his: for she looked with unbiassed comparison and healthy sense at probabilities on which he had risked all his egoism. And now she pictured to herself the days, and months, and years which she must spend in sorting what might be called shattered mummies, and fragments of a tradition which was itself a mosaic wrought from crushed ruins—sorting them as food for a theory which was already withered in the birth like an elfin child. Doubtless a vigorous error vigorously pursued has kept the embryos of truth a-breathing: the quest of gold being at the same time a questioning of substances, the body of chemistry is prepared for its soul, and Lavoisier is born. But Mr. Casaubon’s theory of the elements which made the seed of all tradition was not likely to bruise itself unawares against discoveries: it floated among flexible conjectures no more solid than those etymologies which seemed strong because of likeness in sound until it was shown that likeness in sound made them impossible: it was a method of interpretation which was not tested by the necessity of forming anything which had sharper collisions than an elaborate notion of Gog and Magog: it was as free from interruption as a plan for threading the stars together. And Dorothea had so often had to check her weariness and impatience over this questionable riddle-guessing, as it revealed itself to her instead of the fellowship in high knowledge which was to make life worthier! She could understand well enough now why her husband had come to cling to her, as possibly the only hope left that his labors would ever take a shape in which they could be given to the world. At first it had seemed that he wished to keep even her aloof from any close knowledge of what he was doing; but gradually the terrible stringency of human need—the prospect of a too speedy death—
很快她就听到他睡着了，但她却再也睡不着了。虽然她强迫自己静静地躺着，以免打扰他，但她的思想却在进行着一场冲突，想象力首先将其力量集中在一侧，然后又转移到另一侧。她没有预感到她丈夫希望对她未来的行动建立的权力与他的工作以外的任何其他事情有关。但她很清楚，他希望她全身心地筛选那些混杂的材料，这些材料是对更值得怀疑的原则的可疑说明。这个可怜的孩子已经完全不相信这把钥匙的可靠性，这把钥匙成就了她丈夫一生的抱负和努力。这并不奇怪，尽管她的指导很少，但她在这件事上的判断比他的更真实：因为她以公正的比较和健康的感觉来看待他冒着所有利己主义的风险的可能性。现在，她向自己描绘了她必须花费多少天、月、年来整理那些可能被称为破碎的木乃伊的东西，以及传统的碎片，而传统的碎片本身就是由破碎的废墟制成的马赛克——将它们分类为一种理论的素材，该理论就像一个小精灵一样，在出生时就已经枯萎了。毫无疑问，一个大力追求的错误使真理的胚胎得以呼吸：对黄金的追求同时也是对物质的质疑，化学的躯体为它的灵魂做好了准备，拉瓦锡诞生了。但先生。 卡苏朋的关于构成所有传统种子的要素的理论不可能在不知不觉中受到发现的打击：它漂浮在灵活的猜想中，并不比那些因声音相似而显得强大的词源更坚固，直到有人证明声音相似使得它们是不可能的：这是一种解释方法，没有经过形成任何比歌革和玛各的复杂概念具有更尖锐碰撞的必要性的考验：它就像将星星串在一起的计划一样不受干扰。多萝西娅经常不得不抑制自己对这种可疑的猜谜语的厌倦和不耐烦，因为它向她展示了自己，而不是让生活更有价值的高深知识的友谊！她现在很清楚为什么她的丈夫会依附于她，这可能是他的劳动成果能够呈现给世界的唯一希望。 起初，他似乎甚至想让她远离他所做的事情。但渐渐地，人类的需求变得可怕而紧迫——死亡太快的前景——

And here Dorothea’s pity turned from her own future to her husband’s past—nay, to his present hard struggle with a lot which had grown out of that past: the lonely labor, the ambition breathing hardly under the pressure of self-distrust; the goal receding, and the heavier limbs; and now at last the sword visibly trembling above him! And had she not wished to marry him that she might help him in his life’s labor?—But she had thought the work was to be something greater, which she could serve in devoutly for its own sake. Was it right, even to soothe his grief—would it be possible, even if she promised—to work as in a treadmill fruitlessly?
在这里，多萝西娅的怜悯从她自己的未来转向了她丈夫的过去——不，是转向他现在与许多源自过去的事物的艰苦斗争：孤独的劳动，在自我不信任的压力下几乎喘不过气来的野心；目标越来越远，四肢越来越沉重；现在，剑终于在他上方明显颤抖了！难道她不想嫁给他，以便在他一生的工作中帮助他吗？——但她认为这项工作是更伟大的事情，她可以为了它本身而虔诚地服务。即使是为了抚慰他的悲伤——即使她答应了——像在跑步机上一样徒劳无功地工作，这是正确的吗？

And yet, could she deny him? Could she say, ‘I refuse to content this pining hunger?’ It would be refusing to do for him dead, what she was almost sure to do for him living. If he lived as Lydgate had said he might, for fifteen years or more, her life would certainly be spent in helping him and obeying him.
然而，她能拒绝他吗？她能说：“我拒绝满足这令人窒息的饥饿吗？”那就等于拒绝为死去的他做她几乎肯定会为他活着做的事情。如果他像利德盖特所说的那样生活十五年或更长时间，她的一生肯定会花在帮助他和服从他上。

Still, there was a deep difference between that devotion to the living and that indefinite promise of devotion to the dead. While he lived, he could claim nothing that she would not still be free to remonstrate against, and even to refuse. But— the thought passed through her mind more than once, though she could not believe in it—might he not mean to demand something more from her than she had been able to imagine, since he wanted her pledge to carry out his wishes without telling her exactly what they were? No; his heart was bound up in his work only: that was the end for which his failing life was to be eked out by hers.
尽管如此，对生者的奉献和对死者的无限期奉献之间仍然存在着深刻的区别。当他活着的时候，他所提出的任何要求，她仍然可以自由地抗议，甚至拒绝。但是——这个想法不止一次地在她脑海中闪过，尽管她无法相信——他是否有意向她提出超出她想象的要求，因为他希望她保证在不告诉的情况下实现他的愿望。她到底是什么人？不;他的心只专注于他的工作：这就是他失败的生活将由她的生活来弥补的最终目的。

And now, if she were to say, ‘No! if you die, I will put no finger to your work’—it seemed as if she would be crushing that bruised heart.
现在，如果她说：‘不！如果你死了，我不会对你的工作置之不理”——似乎她会压碎那颗受伤的心。

For four hours Dorothea lay in this conflict, till she felt ill and bewildered, unable to resolve, praying mutely. Helpless as a child which has sobbed and sought too long, she fell into a late morning sleep, and when she waked Mr. Casaubon was already up. Tantripp told her that he had read prayers, breakfasted, and was in the library.
多萝西娅在这场冲突中躺了四个小时，直到她感到不适和困惑，无法解决，默默地祈祷。她就像一个哭泣和寻求太久的孩子一样无助，在清晨睡得很晚，当她醒来时，卡苏邦先生已经起床了。坦特里普告诉她，他已经读过祈祷文，吃过早餐，现在正在图书馆。

‘I never saw you look so pale, madam,’ said Tantripp, a solid-figured woman who had been with the sisters at Lausanne.
“我从来没有见过你脸色这么苍白，女士，”曾在洛桑与姐妹们在一起的身材魁梧的坦特里普说道。

‘Was I ever high-colored, Tantripp?’ said Dorothea, smiling faintly.
“坦特里普，我的肤色曾经很华丽吗？”多萝西娅微微一笑说道。

‘Well, not to say high-colored, but with a bloom like a Chiny rose. But always smelling those leather books, what can be expected? Do rest a little this morning, madam. Let me say you are ill and not able to go into that close library.’
‘嗯，不是说色彩鲜艳，而是像中国玫瑰一样绽放。但总闻那些皮书的味道，还能指望什么呢？女士，今天早上请休息一下。让我说你病了，无法进入那个封闭的图书馆。

‘Oh no, no! let me make haste,’ said Dorothea. ‘Mr. Casaubon wants me particularly.’
‘哦不，不！让我抓紧时间，”多萝西娅说。 '先生。卡索邦特别想要我。

When she went down she felt sure that she should promise to fulfil his wishes; but that would be later in the day—not yet.
当她下去时，她确信她应该答应满足他的愿望；但那是在当天晚些时候——还不是时候。

As Dorothea entered the library, Mr. Casaubon turned round from the table where he had been placing some books, and said—
当多萝西娅走进图书馆时，卡苏邦先生从他放着一些书的桌子旁转过身来，说道——

‘I was waiting for your appearance, my dear. I had hoped to set to work at once this morning, but I find myself under some indisposition, probably from too much excitement yesterday. I am going now to take a turn in the shrubbery, since the air is milder.’
“我一直在等待你的出现，亲爱的。我原本希望今天早上就可以开始工作，但我发现自己有些不舒服，可能是因为昨天太兴奋了。我现在要去灌木丛转转，因为空气更温和了。

‘I am glad to hear that,’ said Dorothea. ‘Your mind, I feared, was too active last night.’
“我很高兴听到这个消息，”多萝西娅说。 “我担心你昨晚脑子太活跃了。”

‘I would fain have it set at rest on the point I last spoke of, Dorothea. You can now, I hope, give me an answer.’
“我希望它能停留在我上次谈到的那个点上，多萝西娅。我希望你现在可以给我答案。

‘May I come out to you in the garden presently?’ said Dorothea, winning a little breathing space in that way.
“我可以到花园里去找你吗？”多萝西娅说道，这样就赢得了一点喘息的空间。

‘I shall be in the Yew-tree Walk for the next half-hour,’ said Mr. Casaubon, and then he left her.
“接下来的半个小时我会在紫杉树步道上，”卡苏邦先生说，然后就离开了她。

Dorothea, feeling very weary, rang and asked Tantripp to bring her some wraps. She had been sitting still for a few minutes, but not in any renewal of the former conflict: she simply felt that she was going to say ‘Yes’ to her own doom: she was too weak, too full of dread at the thought of inflicting a keen-edged blow on her husband, to do anything but submit completely. She sat still and let Tantripp put on her bonnet and shawl, a passivity which was unusual with her, for she liked to wait on herself.
多萝西娅感到非常疲倦，打电话让坦特里普给她拿一些包裹。她一动不动地坐了几分钟，但并没有重蹈之前的冲突的覆辙：她只是觉得自己要对自己的厄运说“是”：她太虚弱了，一想到这个，她就充满了恐惧。对她的丈夫造成了尖锐的打击，除了完全屈服之外，她什么也做不了。她一动不动地坐着，让坦特里普戴上帽子和披肩，这种被动态度对她来说很不寻常，因为她喜欢伺候自己。

‘God bless you, madam!’ said Tantripp, with an irrepressible movement of love towards the beautiful, gentle creature for whom she felt unable to do anything more, now that she had finished tying the bonnet.
“上帝保佑您，女士！”坦特里普说，她已经把帽子系好了，对这个美丽、温柔的生物充满了无法抑制的爱意。

This was too much for Dorothea’s highly-strung feeling, and she burst into tears, sobbing against Tantripp’s arm. But soon she checked herself, dried her eyes, and went out at the glass door into the shrubbery.
这让多萝西娅高度紧张的感觉难以承受，她放声大哭，靠在坦特里普的手臂上抽泣。但很快她就​​检查了自己，擦干眼睛，从玻璃门出去，走进了灌木丛。

‘I wish every book in that library was built into a caticom for your master,’ said Tantripp to Pratt, the butler, finding him in the breakfast-room. She had been at Rome, and visited the antiquities, as we know; and she always declined to call Mr. Casaubon anything but ‘your master,’ when speaking to the other servants.
“我希望图书馆里的每一本书都能成为你主人的一部猫科喜剧，”坦特里普在早餐室里找到了管家普拉特，对他说道。据我们所知，她曾去过罗马，参观过古物。在与其他仆人交谈时，她总是拒绝称呼卡苏朋先生，只称呼他为“您的主人”。

Pratt laughed. He liked his master very well, but he liked Tantripp better.
普拉特笑了。他很喜欢他的主人，但他更喜欢坦特里普。

When Dorothea was out on the gravel walks, she lingered among the nearer clumps of trees, hesitating, as she had done once before, though from a different cause. Then she had feared lest her effort at fellowship should be unwelcome; now she dreaded going to the spot where she foresaw that she must bind herself to a fellowship from which she shrank. Neither law nor the world’s opinion compelled her to this—only her husband’s nature and her own compassion, only the ideal and not the real yoke of marriage. She saw clearly enough the whole situation, yet she was fettered: she could not smite the stricken soul that entreated hers. If that were weakness, Dorothea was weak. But the half-hour was passing, and she must not delay longer. When she entered the Yew-tree Walk she could not see her husband; but the walk had bends, and she went, expecting to catch sight of his figure wrapped in a blue cloak, which, with a warm velvet cap, was his outer garment on chill days for the garden. It occurred to her that he might be resting in the summer-house, towards which the path diverged a little. Turning the angle, she could see him seated on the bench, close to a stone table. His arms were resting on the table, and his brow was bowed down on them, the blue cloak being dragged forward and screening his face on each side.
当多萝西娅在碎石路上行走时，她在附近的树林中徘徊，犹豫不决，就像她以前做过的那样，尽管出于不同的原因。然后她担心自己在团契方面的努力会不受欢迎。现在，她害怕去到她预见到必须将自己束缚在一种令她退缩的团契之中的地方。法律和世俗的观点都没有迫使她这样做——只有她丈夫的本性和她自己的同情心，只有婚姻的理想而不是真正的枷锁。她清楚地看到了整个情况，但她却受到了束缚：她无法打击恳求她的受伤的灵魂。如果这就是弱点的话，那么多萝西娅就是软弱的。但半个小时已经过去了，她不能再耽搁了。当她进入紫杉树步道时，她看不到她的丈夫。但这条路有弯道，她走着走着，希望能看到他裹着一件蓝色斗篷的身影，这件斗篷戴着一顶温暖的天鹅绒帽子，是他在寒冷的日子里在花园里穿的外衣。她想到他可能正在避暑别墅里休息，通往避暑别墅的小路有一点岔道。转过角度，看到他坐在长凳上，靠近一张石桌。他的手臂搁在桌子上，眉毛低垂在手臂上，蓝色斗篷被向前拖着，遮住了他脸的两侧。

‘He exhausted himself last night,’ Dorothea said to herself, thinking at first that he was asleep, and that the summer-house was too damp a place to rest in. But then she remembered that of late she had seen him take that attitude when she was reading to him, as if he found it easier than any other; and that he would sometimes speak, as well as listen, with his face down in that way. She went into the summerhouse and said, ‘I am come, Edward; I am ready.’
“他昨晚已经筋疲力尽了，”多萝西娅自言自语道，起初以为他睡着了，避暑别墅太潮湿了，不适合休息。但后来她想起，最近她看到他采取了这种态度。当她给他读书时，他觉得这比其他任何事情都容易；他有时会这样低下头说话和听。她走进凉亭说道：“我来了，爱德华；我已经准备好了。'

He took no notice, and she thought that he must be fast asleep. She laid her hand on his shoulder, and repeated, ‘I am ready!’ Still he was motionless; and with a sudden confused fear, she leaned down to him, took off his velvet cap, and leaned her cheek close to his head, crying in a distressed tone—
他没有理睬，她想他一定是睡熟了。她把手放在他的肩膀上，重复道：“我准备好了！”他仍然一动不动。她突然感到一阵莫名的恐惧，她俯下身子，摘下他的天鹅绒帽子，把脸颊贴在他的头上，用痛苦的语气哭道——

‘Wake, dear, wake! Listen to me. I am come to answer.’ But Dorothea never gave her answer.
‘醒来吧，亲爱的，醒来吧！听我说。我是来回答的。”但多萝西娅始终没有给出答案。

Later in the day, Lydgate was seated by her bedside, and she was talking deliriously, thinking aloud, and recalling what had gone through her mind the night before. She knew him, and called him by his name, but appeared to think it right that she should explain everything to him; and again, and again, begged him to explain everything to her husband.
当天晚些时候，利德盖特坐在她的床边，她神志不清地说话，大声思考，回忆着前一天晚上脑子里发生的事情。她认识他，也叫过他的名字，但似乎认为她应该向他解释一切。一次又一次恳求他向丈夫解释一切。

‘Tell him I shall go to him soon: I am ready to promise. Only, thinking about it was so dreadful—it has made me ill. Not very ill. I shall soon be better. Go and tell him.’
“告诉他我很快就会去找他：我已经准备好答应了。”只是，一想到这件事就太可怕了——它让我生病了。病得不重。我很快就会好起来的。去告诉他吧。

But the silence in her husband’s ear was never more to be broken.
但她丈夫耳边的沉默再也没有被打破。

CHAPTER XLIX
第二十九章

A task too strong for wizard spells
对于巫师咒语来说任务太艰巨

This squire had brought about;
这位乡绅带来了；

‘T is easy dropping stones in wells,
“往井里扔石头很容易，

But who shall get them out?’
但谁能把他们救出来呢？

‘I wish to God we could hinder Dorothea from knowing this,’ said Sir James Chettam, with a little frown on his brow, and an expression of intense disgust about his mouth.
“我希望上帝能阻止多萝西娅知道这一点，”詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士说道，他的眉头微微皱起，嘴里流露出强烈的厌恶之情。

He was standing on the hearth-rug in the library at Lowick Grange, and speaking to Mr. Brooke. It was the day after Mr. Casaubon had been buried, and Dorothea was not yet able to leave her room.
他正站在洛威克农庄图书馆的炉边地毯上，和布鲁克先生说话。那是卡苏邦先生下葬后的第二天，多萝西娅还无法离开她的房间。

‘That would be difficult, you know, Chettam, as she is an executrix, and she likes to go into these things—property, land, that kind of thing. She has her notions, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, sticking his eye-glasses on nervously, and exploring the edges of a folded paper which he held in his hand; ‘and she would like to act— depend upon it, as an executrix Dorothea would want to act. And she was twenty-one last December, you know. I can hinder nothing.’
“这会很困难，你知道，切塔姆，因为她是执行人，她喜欢涉足这些事情——财产、土地，诸如此类的事情。”你知道，她有她的想法。”布鲁克先生紧张地戴上眼镜，探索着手里拿着的一张折叠纸的边缘。 “她愿意采取行动——取决于它，就像执行人多萝西娅想要采取的行动一样。”你知道，去年十二月她二十一岁。我什么也不能阻止。

Sir James looked at the carpet for a minute in silence, and then lifting his eyes suddenly fixed them on Mr. Brooke, saying, ‘I will tell you what we can do. Until Dorothea is well, all business must be kept from her, and as soon as she is able to be moved she must come to us. Being with Celia and the baby will be the best thing in the world for her, and will pass away the time. And meanwhile you must get rid of Ladislaw: you must send him out of the country.’ Here Sir James’s look of disgust returned in all its intensity.
詹姆斯爵士沉默地看了地毯一分钟，然后突然抬起眼睛盯着布鲁克先生，说道：“我来告诉你我们能做什么。”在多萝西娅康复之前，一切事务都不得与她接触，一旦她能够搬家，她就必须来找我们。与西莉亚和孩子在一起对她来说是世界上最好的事情，并且会消磨时间。与此同时，你必须除掉拉迪斯瓦夫：你必须把他赶出这个国家。”说到这里，詹姆斯爵士的厌恶表情再次变得最强烈。

Mr. Brooke put his hands behind him, walked to the window and straightened his back with a little shake before he replied.
布鲁克先生双手背在身后，走到窗前，微微颤抖地挺直了背脊，才回答道。

‘That is easily said, Chettam, easily said, you know.’
“这很容易说，切塔姆，很容易说，你知道。”

‘My dear sir,’ persisted Sir James, restraining his indignation within respectful forms, ‘it was you who brought him here, and you who keep him here—I mean by the occupation you give him.’
“我亲爱的先生，”詹姆斯爵士继续说道，以恭敬的方式抑制着自己的愤怒，“是您把他带到这里来的，也是您让他留在这里的——我指的是您给他的职业。”

‘Yes, but I can’t dismiss him in an instant without assigning reasons, my dear Chettam. Ladislaw has been invaluable, most satisfactory. I consider that I have done this part of the country a service by bringing him—by bringing him, you know.’ Mr. Brooke ended with a nod, turning round to give it.
“是的，但我不能在没有说明理由的情况下立即解雇他，亲爱的切塔姆。拉迪斯瓦夫是无价的，最令人满意的。我认为我通过带他来为这个国家的这一地区做出了贡献——通过带他来，你知道。”布鲁克先生最后点了点头，转身表示同意。

‘It’s a pity this part of the country didn’t do without him, that’s all I have to say about it. At any rate, as Dorothea’s brother-in-law, I feel warranted in objecting strongly to his being kept here by any action on the part of her friends. You admit, I hope, that I have a right to speak about what concerns the dignity of my wife’s sister?’
“遗憾的是这个国家的这个地区没有他，这就是我要说的。无论如何，作为多萝西娅的妹夫，我觉得有理由强烈反对她朋友们的任何行为将他留在这里。我希望你承认我有权谈论涉及我妻子妹妹尊严的问题？

Sir James was getting warm.
詹姆斯爵士开始暖和起来。

‘Of course, my dear Chettam, of course. But you and I have different ideas—different—‘
“当然，我亲爱的切塔姆，当然。但你和我有不同的想法——不同——”

‘Not about this action of Casaubon’s, I should hope,’ interrupted Sir James. ‘I say that he has most unfairly compromised Dorothea. I say that there never was a meaner, more ungentlemanly action than this—a codicil of this sort to a will which he made at the time of his marriage with the knowledge and reliance of her family— a positive insult to Dorothea!’
“我希望不是关于卡苏朋的这次行动，”詹姆斯爵士打断道。 “我说他对多萝西娅做出了最不公平的妥协。我想说，从来没有比这更卑鄙、更不绅士的行为了——他在结婚时在她家人的知情和信任下制定了这样的遗嘱附录——这是对多萝西娅的公开侮辱！

‘Well, you know, Casaubon was a little twisted about Ladislaw. Ladislaw has told me the reason—dislike of the bent he took, you know— Ladislaw didn’t think much of Casaubon’s notions, Thoth and Dagon— that sort of thing: and I fancy that Casaubon didn’t like the independent position Ladislaw had taken up. I saw the letters between them, you know. Poor Casaubon was a little buried in books— he didn’t know the world.’
“嗯，你知道，卡苏朋对拉迪斯瓦夫有点扭曲。拉迪斯瓦夫告诉了我原因——不喜欢他所采取的倾向，你知道——拉迪斯瓦夫对卡苏朋的观念、透特和大衮没有太多的看法——诸如此类的事情：而且我认为卡苏朋不喜欢拉迪斯瓦夫的独立立场占用。我看到了他们之间的信件，你知道。可怜的卡索邦有点沉浸在书本中——他不了解这个世界。

‘It’s all very well for Ladislaw to put that color on it,’ said Sir James. ‘But I believe Casaubon was only jealous of him on Dorothea’s account, and the world will suppose that she gave him some reason; and that is what makes it so abominable— coupling her name with this young fellow’s.’
“拉迪斯瓦夫把这种颜色涂在上面真是太好了，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “但我相信卡苏朋只是因为多萝西娅的缘故而嫉妒他，全世界都会认为她给了他一些理由；这就是让它如此令人厌恶的原因——把她的名字和这个年轻人的名字联系在一起。

‘My dear Chettam, it won’t lead to anything, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, seating himself and sticking on his eye- glass again. ‘It’s all of a piece with Casaubon’s oddity. This paper, now, ‘Synoptical Tabulation’ and so on, ‘for the use of Mrs. Casaubon,’ it was locked up in the desk with the will. I suppose he meant Dorothea to publish his researches, eh? and she’ll do it, you know; she has gone into his studies uncommonly.’
“我亲爱的切塔姆，你知道，这不会带来任何结果，”布鲁克先生说着，坐了下来，再次戴上眼镜。 “这与卡索邦的古怪之处息息相关。这张纸，现在是《天气表》等等，“供卡苏邦夫人使用”，它和遗嘱一起锁在桌子上。我想他是想让多萝西娅发表他的研究成果，嗯？你知道，她会做到的；她对他的学习非常不寻常。

‘My dear sir,’ said Sir James, impatiently, ‘that is neither here nor there. The question is, whether you don’t see with me the propriety of sending young Ladislaw away?’
“亲爱的先生，”詹姆斯爵士不耐烦地说，“那既不在这里也不在那里。问题是，你是否不认为把年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫送走是合适的？

‘Well, no, not the urgency of the thing. By-and-by, perhaps, it may come round. As to gossip, you know, sending him away won’t hinder gossip. People say what they like to say, not what they have chapter and verse for,’ said Mr Brooke, becoming acute about the truths that lay on the side of his own wishes. ‘I might get rid of Ladislaw up to a certain point—take away the ‘Pioneer’ from him, and that sort of thing; but I couldn’t send him out of the country if he didn’t choose to go—didn’t choose, you know.’
“嗯，不，事情不紧急。也许，不久之后，它就会出现。至于流言蜚语，你知道，把他送走并不妨碍流言蜚语。人们说他们想说的话，而不是他们有章节和诗句的内容，”布鲁克先生说，他对不利于他自己愿望的事实变得敏锐。 “在某种程度上，我可能会摆脱拉迪斯瓦夫——从他手中夺走‘先锋’，诸如此类的事情；但如果他不选择离开，我就不能把他送出国——没有选择，你知道。”

Mr. Brooke, persisting as quietly as if he were only discussing the nature of last year’s weather, and nodding at the end with his usual amenity, was an exasperating form of obstinacy.
布鲁克先生静静地坚持着，仿佛他只是在讨论去年天气的本质，最后还像往常一样和蔼可亲地点点头，这是一种令人恼火的固执。

‘Good God!’ said Sir James, with as much passion as he ever showed, ‘let us get him a post; let us spend money on him. If he could go in the suite of some Colonial Governor! Grampus might take him— and I could write to Fulke about it.’
“天哪！”詹姆斯爵士带着一如既往的热情说道，“让我们给他一个职位吧！”让我们为他花钱吧。如果他能去某个殖民地总督的套房就好了！鲸八可能会带走他——我可以写信给富尔克告知此事。

‘But Ladislaw won’t be shipped off like a head of cattle, my dear fellow; Ladislaw has his ideas. It’s my opinion that if he were to part from me to-morrow, you’d only hear the more of him in the country. With his talent for speaking and drawing up documents, there are few men who could come up to him as an agitator—an agitator, you know.’
“但是拉迪斯瓦夫不会像一头牛一样被运走，亲爱的朋友；拉迪斯瓦夫有他的想法。我认为，如果他明天离开我，你只会在乡下听到更多关于他的消息。以他的演讲和起草文件的天赋，很少有人能比得上他作为煽动者——你知道的，一个煽动者。

‘Agitator!’ said Sir James, with bitter emphasis, feeling that the syllables of this word properly repeated were a sufficient exposure of its hatefulness.
“煽动者！”詹姆斯爵士尖刻地说道，他觉得这个词的音节被正确地重复就足以暴露出它的可恨性。

‘But be reasonable, Chettam. Dorothea, now. As you say, she had better go to Celia as soon as possible. She can stay under your roof, and in the mean time things may come round quietly. Don’t let us be firing off our guns in a hurry, you know. Standish will keep our counsel, and the news will be old before it’s known. Twenty things may happen to carry off Ladislaw— without my doing anything, you know.’
“但是要讲道理，切塔姆。多萝西娅，现在。正如你所说，她最好尽快去找西莉亚。她可以住在你的屋檐下，同时事情可能会悄然发生。你知道，不要让我们匆忙开枪。斯坦迪什会遵守我们的建议，而消息在得知之前就已经过时了。可能会发生二十件事来夺走拉迪斯瓦夫——你知道，我什么都不做。”

‘Then I am to conclude that you decline to do anything?’
“那么我的结论是你拒绝做任何事情？”

‘Decline, Chettam?—no—I didn’t say decline. But I really don’t see what I could do. Ladislaw is a gentleman.’
“拒绝，切塔姆？——不——我没有说拒绝。但我真的不知道我能做什么。拉迪斯瓦夫是一位绅士。

‘I am glad to hear It!’ said Sir James, his irritation making him forget himself a little. ‘I am sure Casaubon was not.’
“我很高兴听到这个消息！”詹姆斯爵士说，他的恼怒让他有点忘记了自己。 “我确信卡苏邦不是。”

‘Well, it would have been worse if he had made the codicil to hinder her from marrying again at all, you know.’
“嗯，你知道，如果他制定附录来阻止她再次结婚，情况会更糟。”

‘I don’t know that,’ said Sir James. ‘It would have been less indelicate.’
“我不知道，”詹姆斯爵士说。 “这样就不会那么不雅了。”

‘One of poor Casaubon’s freaks! That attack upset his brain a little. It all goes for nothing. She doesn’t WANT to marry Ladislaw.’
‘可怜的卡索邦的怪胎之一！那次攻击让他的大脑有些混乱。这一切都是徒劳的。她不想嫁给拉迪斯瓦夫。

‘But this codicil is framed so as to make everybody believe that she did. I don’t believe anything of the sort about Dorothea,’ said Sir James— then frowningly, ‘but I suspect Ladislaw. I tell you frankly, I suspect Ladislaw.’
“但这份附录的目的是让每个人都相信她做到了。我不相信关于多萝西娅的任何事情，”詹姆斯爵士说道，然后皱起眉头，“但我怀疑拉迪斯洛。我坦白地告诉你，我怀疑拉迪斯瓦夫。

‘I couldn’t take any immediate action on that ground, Chettam. In fact, if it were possible to pack him off—send him to Norfolk Island— that sort of thing—it would look all the worse for Dorothea to those who knew about it. It would seem as if we distrusted her— distrusted her, you know.’
“我无法就此采取任何立即行动，切塔姆。事实上，如果有可能把他打发走——送他去诺福克岛——诸如此类的事情——对于那些知道这件事的人来说，多萝西娅的处境会更糟。看起来我们好像不信任她——不信任她，你知道的。

That Mr. Brooke had hit on an undeniable argument, did not tend to soothe Sir James. He put out his hand to reach his hat, implying that he did not mean to contend further, and said, still with some heat—
布鲁克先生提出了一个无可否认的论点，但这并不能安抚詹姆斯爵士。他伸手摸了摸帽子，示意他没有再争辩的意思，语气中带着几分热情说道——

‘Well, I can only say that I think Dorothea was sacrificed once, because her friends were too careless. I shall do what I can, as her brother, to protect her now.’
‘好吧，我只能说我认为多萝西娅被牺牲了一次，因为她的朋友们太粗心了。作为她的兄弟，我现在将尽我所能来保护她。

‘You can’t do better than get her to Freshitt as soon as possible, Chettam. I approve that plan altogether,’ said Mr. Brooke, well pleased that he had won the argument. It would have been highly inconvenient to him to part with Ladislaw at that time, when a dissolution might happen any day, and electors were to be convinced of the course by which the interests of the country would be best served. Mr. Brooke sincerely believed that this end could be secured by his own return to Parliament: he offered the forces of his mind honestly to the nation.
“切塔姆，你最好尽快把她送到弗雷希特。”我完全同意这个计划。”布鲁克先生说，他很高兴自己赢得了这场争论。那时与拉迪斯瓦夫分手对他来说是非常不方便的，因为解散随时可能发生，选民们必须相信最有利于国家利益的方针。布鲁克先生真诚地相信，他自己重返议会就可以实现这一目标：他诚实地向国家提供了自己的思想力量。

CHAPTER L
第L章

‘This Loller here wol precilen us somewhat.’
“这个洛勒在这里让我们有些先见之明。”

‘Nay by my father’s soule! that schal he nat,’
‘不，以我父亲的灵魂发誓！ that schal he nat，”

Sayde the Schipman, ‘here schal he not preche,
希普曼赛德，“他不在这里布道，

We schal no gospel glosen here ne teche.
我们在这里没有任何技术上的福音。

We leven all in the gret God,’ quod he.
我们把一切都归于伟大的上帝，”他说道。

He wolden sowen some diffcultee.’
他会遇到一些困难。

Canterbury Tales.
坎特伯雷寓言（故事。

Dorothea had been safe at Freshitt Hall nearly a week before she had askeVVd any dangerous questions. Every morning now she sat with Celia in the prettiest of up-stairs sitting-rooms, opening into a small conservatory— Celia all in white and lavender like a bunch of mixed violets, watching the remarkable acts of the baby, which were so dubious to her inexperienced mind that all conversation was interrupted by appeals for their interpretation made to the oracular nurse. Dorothea sat by in her widow’s dress, with an expression which rather provoked Celia, as being much too sad; for not only was baby quite well, but really when a husband had been so dull and troublesome while he lived, and besides that had—well, well! Sir James, of course, had told Celia everything, with a strong representation how important it was that Dorothea should not know it sooner than was inevitable.
在多萝西娅问任何危险问题之前，她已经安全地待在弗雷西特庄园近一周了。现在每天早上，她都会和西莉亚一起坐在楼上最漂亮的起居室里，客厅通向一个小温室——西莉亚穿着白色和淡紫色的衣服，就像一束混合紫罗兰，看着婴儿的非凡行为，这些行为对她来说是如此可疑。她的头脑缺乏经验，所有的谈话都被向神谕护士解释的请求打断了。多萝西娅穿着寡妇的衣服坐在旁边，她的表情让西莉亚很恼火，因为她太悲伤了。因为不仅宝贝身体很好，而且当丈夫活着的时候是如此迟钝和麻烦，除此之外，还有——好吧，好吧！当然，詹姆斯爵士已经把一切都告诉了西莉亚，并强烈表示多萝西娅不应该早点知道这件事是多么重要。

But Mr. Brooke had been right in predicting that Dorothea would not long remain passive where action had been assigned to her; she knew the purport of her husband’s will made at the time of their marriage, and her mind, as soon as she was clearly conscious of her position, was silently occupied with what she ought to do as the owner of Lowick Manor with the patronage of the living attached to it.
但布鲁克先生的预测是正确的，多萝西娅不会长期在分配给她的行动中保持被动。她知道她丈夫在结婚时立下的遗嘱的要旨，当她清楚地意识到自己的地位时，她的心思就默默地专注于她作为洛威克庄园的主人在洛威克庄园的赞助下应该做的事情。依附于其的生者。

One morning when her uncle paid his usual visit, though with an unusual alacrity in his manner which he accounted for by saying that it was now pretty certain Parliament would be dissolved forthwith, Dorothea said—
一天早上，当她叔叔像往常一样来访时，尽管他的态度异常敏捷，他说现在可以肯定议会将立即解散，多萝西娅说——

‘Uncle, it is right now that I should consider who is to have the living at Lowick. After Mr. Tucker had been provided for, I never heard my husband say that he had any clergyman in his mind as a successor to himself. I think I ought to have the keys now and go to Lowick to examine all my husband’s papers. There may be something that would throw light on his wishes.’
“叔叔，现在我应该考虑谁在洛威克生活。在塔克先生被供养之后，我从未听我丈夫说过他心中有任何牧师作为他的继承人。我想我现在应该拿到钥匙，去洛威克检查我丈夫的所有文件。也许有什么东西可以阐明他的愿望。

‘No hurry, my dear,’ said Mr. Brooke, quietly. ‘By-and-by, you know, you can go, if you like. But I cast my eyes over things in the desks and drawers—there was nothing—nothing but deep subjects, you know—besides the will. Everything can be done by-and-by. As to the living, I have had an application for interest already— I should say rather good. Mr. Tyke has been strongly recommended to me—I had something to do with getting him an appointment before. An apostolic man, I believe—the sort of thing that would suit you, my dear.’
“别着急，亲爱的，”布鲁克先生平静地说。 “不久之后，你知道，如果你愿意的话，你可以走。”但我把目光投向桌子和抽屉里的东西——除了遗嘱之外，什么也没有——只有深刻的主题，你知道。一切都可以慢慢地完成。至于生者，我已经申请了利息——应该说还不错。泰克先生是被强烈推荐给我的——我之前曾有事要和他预约。我相信，一个使徒般的人——这种人会适合你，亲爱的。

‘I should like to have fuller knowledge about him, uncle, and judge for myself, if Mr. Casaubon has not left any expression of his wishes. He has perhaps made some addition to his will—there may be some instructions for me,’ said Dorothea, who had all the while had this conjecture in her mind with relation to her husband’s work.
“我希望对他有更全面的了解，叔叔，并自行判断，如果卡苏邦先生没有留下任何他的愿望的表达。 “他也许在遗嘱上做了一些补充——也许对我有一些指示。”多萝西娅说，她心里一直对丈夫的工作抱有这样的猜想。

‘Nothing about the rectory, my dear—nothing,’ said Mr. Brooke, rising to go away, and putting out his hand to his nieces: ‘nor about his researches, you know. Nothing in the will.’
“没有关于教区长的事，亲爱的——没有，”布鲁克先生说着起身走开，并向他的侄女们伸出了手：“也没有关于他的研究，你知道。”遗嘱中没有任何内容。

Dorothea’s lip quivered.
多萝西娅的嘴唇颤抖着。

‘Come, you must not think of these things yet, my dear. By-and-by, you know.’
‘得了吧，亲爱的，你现在还不能想这些事情。渐渐地，你知道的。

‘I am quite well now, uncle; I wish to exert myself.’
“我现在很好，叔叔；我想努力一下。

‘Well, well, we shall see. But I must run away now—I have no end of work now—it’s a crisis—a political crisis, you know. And here is Celia and her little man—you are an aunt, you know, now, and I am a sort of grandfather,’ said Mr. Brooke, with placid hurry, anxious to get away and tell Chettam that it would not be his (Mr. Brooke’s) fault if Dorothea insisted on looking into everything.
‘好吧，好吧，我们拭目以待。但我现在必须逃跑——我现在的工作没有结束——这是一场危机——一场政治危机，你知道。这是西莉亚和她的小男人——你知道，现在你是一位阿姨，而我是一位祖父，”布鲁克先生平静而匆忙地说，急于离开并告诉切塔姆这不会是他的如果多萝西娅坚持调查一切，那是布鲁克先生的错。

Dorothea sank back in her chair when her uncle had left the room, and cast her eyes down meditatively on her crossed hands.
当她叔叔离开房间时，多萝西娅靠在椅子上，低下头若有所思地看着她交叉的双手。

‘Look, Dodo! look at him! Did you ever see anything like that?’ said Celia, in her comfortable staccato.
‘看，多多！看着他！ “你见过这样的事吗？”西莉亚用她舒适的断奏语气说道。

‘What, Kitty?’ said Dorothea, lifting her eyes rather absently.
“什么，基蒂？”多萝西娅心不在焉地抬起眼睛问道。

‘What? why, his upper lip; see how he is drawing it down, as if he meant to make a face. Isn’t it wonderful! He may have his little thoughts. I wish nurse were here. Do look at him.’
'什么？为什么，他的上唇；看看他是如何把它画下来的，就好像他想做个鬼脸一样。是不是太棒了！他可能有他的小想法。我希望护士在这里。一定要看看他。

A large tear which had been for some time gathering, rolled down Dorothea’s cheek as she looked up and tried to smile.
当多萝西娅抬起头，试图微笑时，一滴大泪已经积聚了一段时间，从她的脸颊上滚落下来。

‘Don’t be sad, Dodo; kiss baby. What are you brooding over so? I am sure you did everything, and a great deal too much. You should be happy now.’
“别伤心，多多；亲吻宝贝。你这么胡思乱想什么？我确信你已经做了一切，而且做得太多了。你现在应该高兴了。”

‘I wonder if Sir James would drive me to Lowick. I want to look over everything—to see if there were any words written for me.’
“我想知道詹姆斯爵士是否会开车送我去洛威克。我想把所有的东西都看一遍——看看有没有为我写的文字。”

‘You are not to go till Mr. Lydgate says you may go. And he has not said so yet (here you are, nurse; take baby and walk up and down the gallery). Besides, you have got a wrong notion in your head as usual, Dodo—I can see that: it vexes me.’
“除非利德盖特先生允许你走，否则你不能走。”他还没有这么说（护士，你来了；带着孩子，在画廊里走来走去）。此外，你像往常一样脑子里有一个错误的想法，多多——我看得出来：这让我很烦恼。

‘Where am I wrong, Kitty?’ said Dorothea, quite meekly. She was almost ready now to think Celia wiser than herself, and was really wondering with some fear what her wrong notion was. Celia felt her advantage, and was determined to use it. None of them knew Dodo as well as she did, or knew how to manage her. Since Celia’s baby was born, she had had a new sense of her mental solidity and calm wisdom. It seemed clear that where there was a baby, things were right enough, and that error, in general, was a mere lack of that central poising force.
“我哪里错了，基蒂？”多萝西娅十分温顺地说。她现在几乎准备好认为西莉亚比她自己更聪明，并且真的有点害怕地想知道她的错误想法是什么。西莉亚感受到了自己的优势，并决心利用它。他们中没有人像她一样了解多多，也不知道如何管理她。自从西莉亚的孩子出生后，她对自己的精神坚定和冷静智慧有了新的认识。很明显，只要有婴儿，事情就足够正确了，而这种错误，一般来说，只是缺乏那种中央平衡力。

‘I can see what you are thinking of as well as can be, Dodo,’ said Celia. ‘You are wanting to find out if there is anything uncomfortable for you to do now, only because Mr. Casaubon wished it. As if you had not been uncomfortable enough before. And he doesn’t deserve it, and you will find that out. He has behaved very badly. James is as angry with him as can be. And I had better tell you, to prepare you.’
“我能明白你在想什么，多多，”西莉亚说。 “你想知道现在是否有什么事情让你感到不舒服，只是因为卡苏邦先生希望如此。”就好像你之前还没有感到不舒服一样。他不值得，你会发现这一点。他的行为非常糟糕。詹姆斯对他非常生气。我最好告诉你，让你做好准备。

‘Celia,’ said Dorothea, entreatingly, ‘you distress me. Tell me at once what you mean.’ It glanced through her mind that’ Mr. Casaubon had left the property away from her—which would not be so very distressing.
“西莉亚，”多萝西娅恳求地说，“你让我很难受。”立刻告诉我你的意思。’她的脑海里闪现出‘卡苏邦先生已经把财产留给了她——这不会那么令人痛苦。

‘Why, he has made a codicil to his will, to say the property was all to go away from you if you married—I mean—‘
“哎呀，他给自己的遗嘱写了一份附录，规定如果你结婚了，所有的财产都会归你所有——我的意思是——”

‘That is of no consequence,’ said Dorothea, breaking in impetuously.
“那没有什么关系，”多萝西娅急忙插话道。

‘But if you married Mr. Ladislaw, not anybody else,’ Celia went on with persevering quietude. ‘Of course that is of no consequence in one way—you never WOULD marry Mr. Ladislaw; but that only makes it worse of Mr. Casaubon.’
“但如果你嫁给了拉迪斯瓦先生，而不是其他任何人，”西莉亚继续保持安静。 “当然，从某种意义上来说，这并不重要——你永远不会嫁给拉迪斯瓦先生；但这只会让卡苏邦先生的处境变得更糟。

The blood rushed to Dorothea’s face and neck painfully. But Celia was administering what she thought a sobering dose of fact. It was taking up notions that had done Dodo’s health so much harm. So she went on in her neutral tone, as if she had been remarking on baby’s robes.
鲜血涌上多萝西娅的脸和脖子，痛苦极了。但西莉亚正在讲述她认为发人深省的事实。它正在接受那些对多多的健康造成如此大伤害的观念。所以她用中性的语气继续说下去，就像她在评论婴儿的长袍一样。

‘James says so. He says it is abominable, and not like a gentleman. And there never was a better judge than James. It is as if Mr. Casaubon wanted to make people believe that you would wish to marry Mr. Ladislaw—which is ridiculous. Only James says it was to hinder Mr. Ladislaw from wanting to marry you for your money— just as if he ever would think of making you an offer. Mrs. Cadwallader said you might as well marry an Italian with white mice! But I must just go and look at baby,’ Celia added, without the least change of tone, throwing a light shawl over her, and tripping away.
‘詹姆斯是这么说的。他说这是可恶的，不像君子。从来没有比詹姆斯更好的法官了。就好像卡苏邦先生想让人们相信你愿意嫁给拉迪斯瓦夫先生——这很荒谬。只有詹姆斯说这是为了阻止拉迪斯瓦先生为了你的钱而想嫁给你——就像他会考虑向你提出要约一样。卡德沃拉德夫人说你还不如嫁给一个有白老鼠的意大利人！但我必须去看看宝贝，”西莉亚补充道，语气没有丝毫变化，给她盖上一条轻薄的围巾，然后绊倒了。

Dorothea by this time had turned cold again, and now threw herself back helplessly in her chair. She might have compared her experience at that moment to the vague, alarmed consciousness that her life was taking on a new form that she was undergoing a metamorphosis in which memory would not adjust itself to the stirring of new organs. Everything was changing its aspect: her husband’s conduct, her own duteous feeling towards him, every struggle between them— and yet more, her whole relation to Will Ladislaw. Her world was in a state of convulsive change; the only thing she could say distinctly to herself was, that she must wait and think anew. One change terrified her as if it had been a sin; it was a violent shock of repulsion from her departed husband, who had had hidden thoughts, perhaps perverting everything she said and did. Then again she was conscious of another change which also made her tremulous; it was a sudden strange yearning of heart towards Will Ladislaw. It had never before entered her mind that he could, under any circumstances, be her lover: conceive the effect of the sudden revelation that another had thought of him in that light— that perhaps he himself had been conscious of such a possibility,— and this with the hurrying, crowding vision of unfitting conditions, and questions not soon to be solved.
多萝西娅此时又变冷了，无助地靠回椅子上。她可能把那一刻的经历与模糊的、惊慌的意识相比较，她的生活正在呈现一种新的形式，她正在经历一种变形，在这种变形中，记忆无法适应新器官的搅动。一切都在改变着面貌：她丈夫的行为，她自己对他的孝顺感觉，他们之间的每一次斗争——更重要的是，她与威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的整个关系。她的世界正处于剧烈的变化之中。她唯一能清楚地对自己说的是，她必须等待并重新思考。一个变化让她感到恐惧，仿佛这是一种罪孽；这是她已故丈夫强烈的厌恶感，他心里藏着隐秘的想法，也许扭曲了她的一言一行。然后她又意识到另一个变化，也让她颤抖起来。这是一种对威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫突然产生的奇怪的渴望。她以前从来没有想到过，在任何情况下，他都可以成为她的情人：想象一下突然发现另一个人是这样看待他的后果——也许他自己也意识到了这种可能性，——并且这伴随着匆忙、拥挤的景象，不适合的条件和尚未很快解决的问题。

It seemed a long while—she did not know how long—before she heard Celia saying, ‘That will do, nurse; he will be quiet on my lap now. You can go to lunch, and let Garratt stay in the next room.’ ‘What I think, Dodo,’ Celia went on, observing nothing more than that Dorothea was leaning back in her chair, and likely to be passive, ‘is that Mr. Casaubon was spiteful. I never did like him, and James never did. I think the corners of his mouth were dreadfully spiteful. And now he has behaved in this way, I am sure religion does not require you to make yourself uncomfortable about him. If he has been taken away, that is a mercy, and you ought to be grateful. We should not grieve, should we, baby?’ said Celia confidentially to that unconscious centre and poise of the world, who had the most remarkable fists all complete even to the nails, and hair enough, really, when you took his cap off, to make—you didn’t know what:— in short, he was Bouddha in a Western form.
似乎过了很长一段时间——她不知道过了多久——她才听到西莉亚说：“这样就可以了，护士；快点吧。”他现在会安静地坐在我腿上。你可以去吃午饭，让加勒特留在隔壁房间。” “我的想法是，多多，”西莉亚继续说道，只看到多萝西娅靠在椅子上，而且很可能很被动，“是这样吗？卡苏邦先生心怀恶意。我从来没有喜欢过他，詹姆斯也从来没有喜欢过他。我觉得他的嘴角充满了恶意。现在他有这样的行为，我相信宗教不需要你让自己对他感到不舒服。如果他被带走了，那是一种怜悯，你应该感恩。我们不应该悲伤，不是吗，宝贝？”西莉亚秘密地对那个无意识的中心和世界的平静说道，他拥有最引人注目的拳头，甚至连指甲都完整，而且头发足够多，真的，当你摘下他的帽子时，使——你不知道是什么：——简而言之，他是西方形式的菩萨。

At this crisis Lydgate was announced, and one of the first things he said was, ‘I fear you are not so well as you were, Mrs. Casaubon; have you been agitated? allow me to feel your pulse.’ Dorothea’s hand was of a marble coldness.
在这场危机中，利德盖特被宣布了，他说的第一句话就是：“我担心你的情况不如以前那么好了，卡苏邦夫人；”你被激怒了吗？让我摸一下你的脉搏。”多萝西娅的手冰冷如大理石。

‘She wants to go to Lowick, to look over papers,’ said Celia. ‘She ought not, ought she?’
“她想去洛威克检查文件，”西莉亚说。 “她不应该这样，不是吗？”

Lydgate did not speak for a few moments. Then he said, looking at Dorothea. ‘I hardly know. In my opinion Mrs. Casaubon should do what would give her the most repose of mind. That repose will not always come from being forbidden to act.’
利德盖特好一会儿没有说话。然后他看着多萝西娅说道。 “我几乎不知道。我认为卡索邦夫人应该做一些能让她内心最平静的事情。这种安宁并不总是来自于被禁止采取行动。

‘Thank you;’ said Dorothea, exerting herself, ‘I am sure that is wise. There are so many things which I ought to attend to. Why should I sit here idle?’ Then, with an effort to recall subjects not connected with her agitation, she added, abruptly, ‘You know every one in Middlemarch, I think, Mr. Lydgate. I shall ask you to tell me a great deal. I have serious things to do now. I have a living to give away. You know Mr. Tyke and all the—‘ But Dorothea’s effort was too much for her; she broke off and burst into sobs. Lydgate made her drink a dose of sal volatile.
“谢谢你，”多萝西娅努力说，“我相信这是明智的。”有很多事情需要我去处理。我为什么要坐在这里无所事事？”然后，她努力回忆起与她的激动无关的话题，突然补充道，“我想，你认识米德尔马契的每一个人，利德盖特先生。我要请你告诉我很多事情。我现在有严肃的事情要做。我有一份生计可以捐献。你认识泰克先生和所有的——”但是多萝西娅的努力对她来说太过分了；她突然停了下来，放声抽泣起来。利德盖特让她喝了一剂挥发性盐。

‘Let Mrs. Casaubon do as she likes,’ he said to Sir James, whom he asked to see before quitting the house. ‘She wants perfect freedom, I think, more than any other prescription.’
“让卡苏邦夫人做她喜欢做的事吧，”他对詹姆斯爵士说道，并在离开家之前要求见见詹姆斯爵士。 “我认为，她比任何其他处方都更想要完美的自由。”

His attendance on Dorothea while her brain was excited, had enabled him to form some true conclusions concerning the trials of her life. He felt sure that she had been suffering from the strain and conflict of self-repression; and that she was likely now to feel herself only in another sort of pinfold than that from which she had been released.
当多萝西娅的大脑兴奋时，他的陪伴使她能够对她生活中的考验得出一些正确的结论。他确信她一直在承受着自我压抑的压力和冲突。她现在很可能感觉到自己只是处于另一种针褶中，而不是她刚刚摆脱的针褶。

Lydgate’s advice was all the easier for Sir James to follow when he found that Celia had already told Dorothea the unpleasant fact about the will. There was no help for it now—no reason for any further delay in the execution of necessary business. And the next day Sir James complied at once with her request that he would drive her to Lowick.
当詹姆斯爵士发现西莉亚已经告诉多萝西娅关于遗嘱的令人不快的事实时，利德盖特的建议对詹姆斯爵士来说更容易遵循。现在已经没有任何帮助了——没有理由进一步拖延必要事务的执行。第二天，詹姆斯爵士立即答应了她的要求，开车送她去洛威克。

‘I have no wish to stay there at present,’ said Dorothea; ‘I could hardly bear it. I am much happier at Freshitt with Celia. I shall be able to think better about what should be done at Lowick by looking at it from a distance. And I should like to be at the Grange a little while with my uncle, and go about in all the old walks and among the people in the village.’
“我现在不想留在那里，”多萝西娅说。 ‘我几乎无法忍受。我在弗雷希特和西莉亚在一起更开心。通过从远处观察，我将能够更好地思考在洛威克应该做什么。我想和叔叔一起在田庄呆一会儿，走遍所有古老的步道，走遍村子里的人们。

‘Not yet, I think. Your uncle is having political company, and you are better out of the way of such doings,’ said Sir James, who at that moment thought of the Grange chiefly as a haunt of young Ladislaw’s. But no word passed between him and Dorothea about the objectionable part of the will; indeed, both of them felt that the mention of it between them would be impossible. Sir James was shy, even with men, about disagreeable subjects; and the one thing that Dorothea would have chosen to say, if she had spoken on the matter at all, was forbidden to her at present because it seemed to be a further exposure of her husband’s injustice. Yet she did wish that Sir James could know what had passed between her and her husband about Will Ladislaw’s moral claim on the property: it would then, she thought, be apparent to him as it was to her, that her husband’s strange indelicate proviso had been chiefly urged by his bitter resistance to that idea of claim, and not merely by personal feelings more difficult to talk about. Also, it must be admitted, Dorothea wished that this could be known for Will’s sake, since her friends seemed to think of him as simply an object of Mr. Casaubon’s charity. Why should he be compared with an Italian carrying white mice? That word quoted from Mrs. Cadwallader seemed like a mocking travesty wrought in the dark by an impish finger.
“我想还没有。” “你叔叔有政治伙伴，你最好别再做这种事。”詹姆斯爵士说，当时他认为田庄主要是年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫经常出没的地方。但他和多萝西娅之间没有就遗嘱中令人反感的部分进行任何交流。确实，两人都觉得这件事不可能在他们之间提起。詹姆斯爵士即使面对男人也对不愉快的话题感到害羞。多萝西娅本来会选择说的一件事，如果她真的谈论过这件事，现在却被禁止了，因为这似乎进一步暴露了她丈夫的不公正。然而，她确实希望詹姆斯爵士能够知道她和她丈夫之间关于威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫对财产的道德主张的情况：这样，她想，对他来说，对她来说，她丈夫奇怪的不雅的附带条件就会变得显而易见。主要是因为他对这种主张的强烈抵制，而不仅仅是因为更难以谈论的个人感情。另外，必须承认的是，多萝西娅希望为了威尔的缘故而知道这一点，因为她的朋友们似乎认为他只是卡苏邦先生慈善事业的一个对象。为什么要把他与一个携带小白鼠的意大利人相比较？卡德沃拉德夫人引用的这句话似乎是一个顽皮的手指在黑暗中进行的嘲讽。

At Lowick Dorothea searched desk and drawer—searched all her husband’s places of deposit for private writing, but found no paper addressed especially to her, except that ‘Synoptical Tabulation,’ which was probably only the beginning of many intended directions for her guidance. In carrying out this bequest of labor to Dorothea, as in all else, Mr. Casaubon had been slow and hesitating, oppressed in the plan of transmitting his work, as he had been in executing it, by the sense of moving heavily in a dim and clogging medium: distrust of Dorothea’s competence to arrange what he had prepared was subdued only by distrust of any other redactor. But he had come at last to create a trust for himself out of Dorothea’s nature: she could do what she resolved to do: and he willingly imagined her toiling under the fetters of a promise to erect a tomb with his name upon it. (Not that Mr. Casaubon called the future volumes a tomb; he called them the Key to all Mythologies.) But the months gained on him and left his plans belated: he had only had time to ask for that promise by which he sought to keep his cold grasp on Dorothea’s life.
在洛威克，多萝西娅搜查了桌子和抽屉——搜查了她丈夫存放私人信件的所有地方，但没有找到专门写给她的文件，除了《天气表》，这可能只是她指导的许多预期方向的开始。在向多萝西娅执行这项遗赠的劳动时，正如在其他所有事情中一样，卡苏邦先生一直缓慢而犹豫，在传输他的工作的计划中感到压抑，就像他在执行它时一样，因为感觉在昏暗的环境中沉重地移动。和堵塞媒介：对多萝西娅安排他所准备的内容的能力的不信任只能通过对任何其他编辑者的不信任来消除。但他最终还是从多萝西娅的天性中为自己建立了信任：她可以做她决心要做的事：他心甘情愿地想象她在承诺的束缚下辛勤劳作，承诺建造一座刻有他名字的坟墓。 （并不是说卡苏朋先生称未来的卷为坟墓；他称它们为所有神话的钥匙。）但是，几个月过去了，他的计划却迟迟未能实现：他只来得及祈求他所寻求的承诺。对多萝西娅的生活保持冷漠的掌控。

The grasp had slipped away. Bound by a pledge given from the depths of her pity, she would have been capable of undertaking a toil which her judgment whispered was vain for all uses except that consecration of faithfulness which is a supreme use. But now her judgment, instead of being controlled by duteous devotion, was made active by the imbittering discovery that in her past union there had lurked the hidden alienation of secrecy and suspicion. The living, suffering man was no longer before her to awaken her pity: there remained only the retrospect of painful subjection to a husband whose thoughts had been lower than she had believed, whose exorbitant claims for himself had even blinded his scrupulous care for his own character, and made him defeat his own pride by shocking men of ordinary honor. As for the property which was the sign of that broken tie, she would have been glad to be free from it and have nothing more than her original fortune which had been settled on her, if there had not been duties attached to ownership, which she ought not to flinch from. About this property many troublous questions insisted on rising: had she not been right in thinking that the half of it ought to go to Will Ladislaw?— but was it not impossible now for her to do that act of justice? Mr. Casaubon had taken a cruelly effective means of hindering her: even with indignation against him in her heart, any act that seemed a triumphant eluding of his purpose revolted her.
抓握已经溜走了。受她内心深处的怜悯所许下的誓言的约束，她本来有能力从事一项她的判断低声说的辛劳，除了忠诚的奉献之外，这一切都是徒劳的，这是一种至高无上的用途。但现在，她的判断力不再受尽职尽责的控制，而是因令人痛苦的发现而变得活跃，即在她过去的婚姻中隐藏着秘密和猜疑的疏远。那个活着的、受苦的男人不再出现在她面前，唤起她的怜悯：只剩下对丈夫的痛苦的回忆，他的思想比她想象的要低，他对自己的过高要求甚至蒙蔽了他对自己的一丝不苟的照顾。性格，使他通过震惊普通荣誉人士来击败自己的骄傲。至于那段关系破裂的标志的财产，如果没有所有权所附带的义务，她会很高兴摆脱它，除了她原来的财产之外什么也没有。不应该退缩。关于这笔财产，许多令人不安的问题不断出现：她认为一半应该归威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的想法是不是正确？——但现在她做这种正义之举不是不可能吗？卡苏邦先生采取了一种残酷而有效的手段来阻碍她：即使她心里对他很愤慨，但任何看似胜利地逃避了他的目的的行为都会让她感到厌恶。

After collecting papers of business which she wished to examine, she locked up again the desks and drawers—all empty of personal words for her—empty of any sign that in her husband’s lonely brooding his heart had gone out to her in excuse or explanation; and she went back to Freshitt with the sense that around his last hard demand and his last injurious assertion of his power, the silence was unbroken.
收集完她想要检查的商业文件后，她又把桌子和抽屉锁起来——里面没有任何对她说的话——没有任何迹象表明，在她丈夫孤独的沉思中，他的心向她寻求了借口或解释；但是，她没有任何迹象表明，在她丈夫孤独的沉思中，他的心向她寻求了借口或解释。她回到弗雷西特身边，感觉到在他最后一次强硬的要求和他最后一次对自己权力的有害主张周围，沉默从未被打破。

Dorothea tried now to turn her thoughts towards immediate duties, and one of these was of a kind which others were determined to remind her of. Lydgate’s ear had caught eagerly her mention of the living, and as soon as he could, he reopened the subject, seeing here a possibility of making amends for the casting-vote he had once given with an ill-satisfied conscience. ‘Instead of telling you anything about Mr. Tyke,’ he said, ‘I should like to speak of another man— Mr. Farebrother, the Vicar of St. Botolph’s. His living is a poor one, and gives him a stinted provision for himself and his family. His mother, aunt, and sister all live with him, and depend upon him. I believe he has never married because of them. I never heard such good preaching as his—such plain, easy eloquence. He would have done to preach at St. Paul’s Cross after old Latimer. His talk is just as good about all subjects: original, simple, clear. I think him a remarkable fellow: he ought to have done more than he has done.’
多萝西娅现在试图将她的思想转向眼前的职责，其中一项职责是其他人决心提醒她的职责。利德盖特的耳朵热切地听到了她对生者的提及，他一有机会就重新打开了这个话题，因为他看到这里有可能弥补他曾经因良心不满足而投下的决定性一票。 “我不想告诉你任何关于泰克先生的事，”他说，“我想谈谈另一个人——费雷布拉泽先生，圣博托夫教堂的牧师。他的生活很贫穷，为他自己和家人提供的食物也很有限。他的母亲、阿姨和妹妹都和他住在一起，依赖他。我相信他因为他们而从未结婚。我从来没有听过像他这样好的讲道——如此平实、轻松的口才。他本可以继老拉蒂默之后去圣保罗十字架传道。他的演讲在所有主题上都同样精彩：原创、简单、清晰。我认为他是一个了不起的人：他应该做得比他所做的更多。

‘Why has he not done more?’ said Dorothea, interested now in all who had slipped below their own intention.
“为什么他没有做得更多呢？”多萝西娅说道，她现在对那些没有达到自己意图的人感兴趣。

‘That’s a hard question,’ said Lydgate. ‘I find myself that it’s uncommonly difficult to make the right thing work: there are so many strings pulling at once. Farebrother often hints that he has got into the wrong profession; he wants a wider range than that of a poor clergyman, and I suppose he has no interest to help him on. He is very fond of Natural History and various scientific matters, and he is hampered in reconciling these tastes with his position. He has no money to spare—hardly enough to use; and that has led him into card-playing—Middlemarch is a great place for whist. He does play for money, and he wins a good deal. Of course that takes him into company a little beneath him, and makes him slack about some things; and yet, with all that, looking at him as a whole, I think he is one of the most blameless men I ever knew. He has neither venom nor doubleness in him, and those often go with a more correct outside.’
“这是一个很难回答的问题，”利德盖特说。 “我发现自己要让正确的事情发挥作用非常困难：同时牵扯的因素太多了。费雷布拉泽经常暗示他入错行了。他想要比一个贫穷的牧师更广泛的范围，我想他没有兴趣帮助他。他非常喜欢自然历史和各种科学问题，但他很难将这些兴趣与他的立场相协调。他没有多余的钱——几乎不够使用；这让他开始打牌——米德尔马契是玩惠斯特的好地方。他确实是为了钱而打球，而且他赢得了很多钱。当然，这让他在周围的人中地位稍低，也让他在某些事情上变得懈怠。尽管如此，从整体上看，我认为他是我所认识的最无可指责的人之一。他内心既没有恶意，也没有双重性，而这些往往与更正确的外表相匹配。

‘I wonder whether he suffers in his conscience because of that habit,’ said Dorothea; ‘I wonder whether he wishes he could leave it off.’
“我想知道他是否因为这个习惯而良心受苦，”多萝西娅说。 “我想知道他是否希望能把这件事抛诸脑后。”

‘I have no doubt he would leave it off, if he were transplanted into plenty: he would be glad of the time for other things.’
“我毫不怀疑，如果他被移植到很多地方，他会放弃它：他会很高兴有时间做其他事情。”

‘My uncle says that Mr. Tyke is spoken of as an apostolic man,’ said Dorothea, meditatively. She was wishing it were possible to restore the times of primitive zeal, and yet thinking of Mr. Farebrother with a strong desire to rescue him from his chance-gotten money.
“我叔叔说泰克先生被称为使徒，”多萝西娅若有所思地说。她希望能够恢复原始热情的时代，但一想到费勒布拉泽先生，她就强烈地希望把他从偶然得到的钱中解救出来。

‘I don’t pretend to say that Farebrother is apostolic,’ said Lydgate. ‘His position is not quite like that of the Apostles: he is only a parson among parishioners whose lives he has to try and make better. Practically I find that what is called being apostolic now, is an impatience of everything in which the parson doesn’t cut the principal figure. I see something of that in Mr. Tyke at the Hospital: a good deal of his doctrine is a sort of pinching hard to make people uncomfortably—aware of him. Besides, an apostolic man at Lowick!—he ought to think, as St. Francis did, that it is needful to preach to the birds.’
“我并不是假装说费雷兄弟是使徒，”利德盖特说。 “他的地位与使徒们的地位不太一样：他只是教区居民中的一名牧师，他必须努力改善他们的生活。实际上，我发现现在所谓的使徒性，是对牧师不担任主角的一切事情的不耐烦。我在医院的泰克先生身上看到了一些这样的东西：他的很多学说都是一种强迫性的手段，让人们不舒服地意识到他。此外，洛威克的一位使徒！他应该像圣弗朗西斯那样认为有必要向鸟类传道。

‘True,’ said Dorothea. ‘It is hard to imagine what sort of notions our farmers and laborers get from their teaching. I have been looking into a volume of sermons by Mr. Tyke: such sermons would be of no use at Lowick—I mean, about imputed righteousness and the prophecies in the Apocalypse. I have always been thinking of the different ways in which Christianity is taught, and whenever I find one way that makes it a wider blessing than any other, I cling to that as the truest—I mean that which takes in the most good of all kinds, and brings in the most people as sharers in it. It is surely better to pardon too much, than to condemn too much. But I should like to see Mr. Farebrother and hear him preach.’
“确实如此，”多萝西娅说。 “很难想象我们的农民和劳动者从他们的教学中得到了什么样的观念。我一直在研究泰克先生的一本讲道集：这样的讲道在洛威克毫无用处——我的意思是，关于归咎于正义和《启示录》中的预言。我一直在思考基督教的不同传授方式，每当我发现一种方式比其他方式更能带来更广泛的祝福时，我就会坚持认为它是最真实的——我的意思是，它吸收了一切中最好的东西。种类，并吸引最多的人作为共享者。宽恕太多肯定比谴责太多要好。但我想见见费厄布拉泽先生并听他讲道。

‘Do,’ said Lydgate; ‘I trust to the effect of that. He is very much beloved, but he has his enemies too: there are always people who can’t forgive an able man for differing from them. And that money-winning business is really a blot. You don’t, of course, see many Middlemarch people: but Mr. Ladislaw, who is constantly seeing Mr. Brooke, is a great friend of Mr. Farebrother’s old ladies, and would be glad to sing the Vicar’s praises. One of the old ladies—Miss Noble, the aunt—is a wonderfully quaint picture of self-forgetful goodness, and Ladislaw gallants her about sometimes. I met them one day in a back street: you know Ladislaw’s look—a sort of Daphnis in coat and waistcoat; and this little old maid reaching up to his arm—they looked like a couple dropped out of a romantic comedy. But the best evidence about Farebrother is to see him and hear him.’
“做吧，”利德盖特说。 “我相信这样的效果。他很受爱戴，但他也有敌人：总有人无法原谅一个有能力的人与他们不同。而那个赚钱的生意真是一个污点。当然，你不会见到很多米德尔马契人：但是经常见到布鲁克先生的拉迪斯劳先生是费雷布拉泽先生的老太太们的好朋友，他很乐意为牧师唱赞歌。其中一位老太太——诺布尔小姐，也就是姨妈——是一副忘我善良的奇特形象，拉迪斯瓦有时也会向她献殷勤。有一天，我在一条后街上遇见了他们：你知道拉迪斯瓦夫的样子——一种穿着外套和背心的水蚤；还有这个小老处女伸手握住他的手臂——他们看起来就像是从浪漫喜剧中走出来的情侣。但关于费雷布拉泽的最好证据就是看到他并听到他的声音。

Happily Dorothea was in her private sitting-room when this conversation occurred, and there was no one present to make Lydgate’s innocent introduction of Ladislaw painful to her. As was usual with him in matters of personal gossip, Lydgate had quite forgotten Rosamond’s remark that she thought Will adored Mrs. Casaubon. At that moment he was only caring for what would recommend the Farebrother family; and he had purposely given emphasis to the worst that could be said about the Vicar, in order to forestall objections. In the weeks. since Mr. Casaubon’s death he had hardly seen Ladislaw, and he had heard no rumor to warn him that Mr. Brooke’s confidential secretary was a dangerous subject with Mrs. Casaubon. When he was gone, his picture of Ladislaw lingered in her mind and disputed the ground with that question of the Lowick living. What was Will Ladislaw thinking about her? Would he hear of that fact which made her cheeks burn as they never used to do? And how would he feel when he heard it?—But she could see as well as possible how he smiled down at the little old maid. An Italian with white mice!—on the contrary, he was a creature who entered into every one’s feelings, and could take the pressure of their thought instead of urging his own with iron resistance.
幸运的是，这次谈话发生时，多萝西娅正在她的私人客厅里，没有人在场，这让利德盖特无辜地介绍拉迪斯瓦夫让她感到痛苦。正如他在个人八卦问题上的惯例一样，利德盖特完全忘记了罗莎蒙德所说的她认为威尔崇拜卡苏邦夫人。那时他只关心什么会推荐Farebrother家族；他故意强调了牧师最坏的一面，以防止反对意见。几周内。自从卡苏邦先生去世后，他几乎没见过拉迪斯瓦夫，也没有听到任何谣言警告他，布鲁克先生的机要秘书对卡苏邦夫人来说是一个危险的话题。他走后，他拉迪斯瓦夫的照片在她脑海中挥之不去，并与洛威克生活的问题争论不休。威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫在想她什么？他会听到那个让她的脸颊像以前从未有过的灼烧感的事实吗？当他听到这句话时，他会有什么感觉？——但她看得清清楚楚，他是如何低头对小老处女微笑的。一个拥有白老鼠的意大利人！——相反，他是一个能够深入每个人的感受的生物，能够承受他们思想的压力，而不是用钢铁般的抵抗力催促自己。

CHAPTER LI
第 6 章

Party is Nature too, and you shall see
派对也是自然，你将会看到

By force of Logic how they both agree:
根据逻辑，他们都同意：

The Many in the One, the One in Many;
一中多，多中一；

All is not Some, nor Some the same as Any:
All 不是 Some，Some 也不与 Any 相同：

Genus holds species, both are great or small;
属有种，有大有小；

One genus highest, one not high at all;
一属最高，一属不高；

Each species has its differentia too,
每个物种也有其差异，

This is not That, and He was never You,
这不是那，他也从来不是你，

Though this and that are AYES, and you and he
尽管这个和那个都是“AYES”，而你和他

Are like as one to one, or three to three.
就像一对一，或者三对三。

No gossip about Mr. Casaubon’s will had yet reached Ladislaw: the air seemed to be filled with the dissolution of Parliament and the coming election, as the old wakes and fairs were filled with the rival clatter of itinerant shows; and more private noises were taken little notice of. The famous ‘dry election’ was at hand, in which the depths of public feeling might be measured by the low flood-mark of drink. Will Ladislaw was one of the busiest at this time; and though Dorothea’s widowhood was continually in his thought, he was so far from wishing to be spoken to on the subject, that when Lydgate sought him out to tell him what had passed about the Lowick living, he answered rather waspishly—
关于卡苏邦先生遗嘱的流言还没有传到拉迪斯瓦夫：空气中似乎充满了议会解散和即将到来的选举的声音，旧的守灵活动和集市上充满了巡回表演的竞争声；而更多的私人噪音却很少被注意到。著名的“干选举”即将到来，其中公众感情的深度可以通过饮酒量的低潮来衡量。威尔·拉迪斯劳 (Will Ladislaw) 是此时最忙碌的人之一。尽管多萝西娅的寡居生活一直萦绕在他的脑海里，但他却根本不想与人谈论这个话题，以至于当利德盖特找到他，告诉他洛伊克家的近况时，他相当尖刻地回答道——

‘Why should you bring me into the matter? I never see Mrs. Casaubon, and am not likely to see her, since she is at Freshitt. I never go there. It is Tory ground, where I and the ‘Pioneer’ are no more welcome than a poacher and his gun.’
‘你为什么要把我带入这件事？我从来没有见过卡索邦夫人，而且也不太可能见到她，因为她在弗雷希特。我从不去那里。这是保守党的阵地，我和‘先锋’并不比偷猎者和他的枪更受欢迎。”

The fact was that Will had been made the more susceptible by observing that Mr. Brooke, instead of wishing him, as before, to come to the Grange oftener than was quite agreeable to himself, seemed now to contrive that he should go there as little as possible. This was a shuffling concession of Mr. Brooke’s to Sir James Chettam’s indignant remonstrance; and Will, awake to the slightest hint in this direction, concluded that he was to be kept away from the Grange on Dorothea’s account. Her friends, then, regarded him with some suspicion? Their fears were quite superfluous: they were very much mistaken if they imagined that he would put himself forward as a needy adventurer trying to win the favor of a rich woman.
事实是，威尔发现布鲁克先生不再像以前那样希望他经常来田庄，而他自己并不同意，现在他似乎想尽一切办法让他尽可能少去那里，这让威尔变得更加容易受到影响。尽可能。这是布鲁克先生对詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士的愤怒抗议做出的让步。威尔察觉到了这方面的最轻微的暗示，就得出结论，因为多萝西娅的缘故，他不能进入农庄。那么，她的朋友们对他有些怀疑吗？他们的担心完全是多余的：如果他们以为他会把自己摆成一个穷困潦倒的冒险家，试图赢得一位富婆的青睐，那他们就大错特错了。

Until now Will had never fully seen the chasm between himself and Dorothea—until now that he was come to the brink of it, and saw her on the other side. He began, not without some inward rage, to think of going away from the neighborhood: it would be impossible for him to show any further interest in Dorothea without subjecting himself to disagreeable imputations—perhaps even in her mind, which others might try to poison.
直到现在，威尔还从未完全看到自己和多萝西娅之间的鸿沟——直到现在，他已经走到了鸿沟的边缘，并看到了她在另一边。他心里不无愤怒地开始考虑离开邻居：他不可能对多萝西娅表现出任何进一步的兴趣，而不会让自己受到不愉快的指责——也许甚至在她的心里，其他人可能会试图毒害她。 。

‘We are forever divided,’ said Will. ‘I might as well be at Rome; she would be no farther from me.’ But what we call our despair is often only the painful eagerness of unfed hope. There were plenty of reasons why he should not go—public reasons why he should not quit his post at this crisis, leaving Mr. Brooke in the lurch when he needed ‘coaching’ for the election, and when there was so much canvassing, direct and indirect, to be carried on. Will could not like to leave his own chessmen in the heat of a game; and any candidate on the right side, even if his brain and marrow had been as soft as was consistent with a gentlemanly bearing, might help to turn a majority. To coach Mr. Brooke and keep him steadily to the idea that he must pledge himself to vote for the actual Reform Bill, instead of insisting on his independence and power of pulling up in time, was not an easy task. Mr. Farebrother’s prophecy of a fourth candidate ‘in the bag’ had not yet been fulfilled, neither the Parliamentary Candidate Society nor any other power on the watch to secure a reforming majority seeing a worthy nodus for interference while there was a second reforming candidate like Mr. Brooke, who might be returned at his own expense; and the fight lay entirely between Pinkerton the old Tory member, Bagster the new Whig member returned at the last election, and Brooke the future independent member, who was to fetter himself for this occasion only. Mr. Hawley and his party would bend all their forces to the return of Pinkerton, and Mr. Brooke’s success must depend either on plumpers which would leave Bagster in the rear, or on the new minting of Tory votes into reforming votes. The latter means, of course, would be preferable.
“我们永远分裂，”威尔说。 “我还不如在罗马；她离我不会再远了。”但是，我们所谓的绝望往往只是因希望得不到满足而产生的痛苦的渴望。他不应该去的原因有很多——公共原因说明他不应该在这场危机中辞职，让布鲁克先生在需要选举“指导”时陷入困境，在有如此多的拉票、直接和间接的，进行。威尔不喜欢在比赛最激烈的时候留下自己的棋子。任何右派候选人，即使他的大脑和骨髓足够软弱，符合绅士风度，也可能有助于赢得多数席位。指导布鲁克先生并让他坚定地相信他必须保证自己投票支持实际的改革法案，而不是坚持他的独立性和及时停止的权力，这并不是一件容易的事。费雷布拉泽先生关于第四位候选人“落入囊中”的预言尚未实现，无论是议会候选人协会还是任何其他权力都在监视着确保改革多数派看到值得干涉的节点，同时还有像这样的第二位改革候选人布鲁克先生，他可能会自费返回；这场斗争完全是在老保守党成员平克顿、上次选举中回归的新辉格党成员巴格斯特和未来的独立议员布鲁克之间展开的，布鲁克只是为了这次场合而束缚自己。霍利先生和他的政党将竭尽全力支持平克顿的回归，而布鲁克先生的成功必须要么依赖于让巴格斯特落后的支持者，要么依赖于将保守党选票转化为改革选票。当然，后者是更好的选择。

This prospect of converting votes was a dangerous distraction to Mr. Brooke: his impression that waverers were likely to be allured by wavering statements, and also the liability of his mind to stick afresh at opposing arguments as they turned up in his memory, gave Will Ladislaw much trouble.
这种改变选票的前景对布鲁克先生来说是一种危险的干扰：他的印象是，摇摆不定的人很可能会被摇摆不定的言论所诱惑，而且当他的记忆中出现反对的论点时，他的思想也有可能重新坚持反对的论点，这让威尔拉迪斯瓦夫很麻烦。

‘You know there are tactics in these things,’ said Mr. Brooke; ‘meeting people half-way—tempering your ideas—saying, ‘Well now, there’s something in that,’ and so on. I agree with you that this is a peculiar occasion—the country with a will of its own— political unions—that sort of thing—but we sometimes cut with rather too sharp a knife, Ladislaw. These ten-pound householders, now: why ten? Draw the line somewhere—yes: but why just at ten? That’s a difficult question, now, if you go into it.’
“你知道这些事情都是有策略的，”布鲁克先生说。 “与人打交道——调整你的想法——说，‘好吧，这里面有一些东西’，等等。我同意你的观点，这是一个特殊的场合——这个国家有自己的意志——政治联盟——诸如此类的事情——但我们有时用的刀太锋利了，拉迪斯瓦夫。这些十磅重的家庭现在：为什么是十磅？在某个地方划定界限——是的：但为什么只在十点呢？现在，如果你深入探讨的话，这是一个困难的问题。

‘Of course it is,’ said Will, impatiently. ‘But if you are to wait till we get a logical Bill, you must put yourself forward as a revolutionist, and then Middlemarch would not elect you, I fancy. As for trimming, this is not a time for trimming.’
“当然是这样，”威尔不耐烦地说。 “但是，如果你要等到我们得到一个合乎逻辑的法案，你就必须把自己定位为革命者，然后我想米德尔马奇就不会选举你了。至于修剪，现在不是修剪的时候。

Mr. Brooke always ended by agreeing with Ladislaw, who still appeared to him a sort of Burke with a leaven of Shelley; but after an interval the wisdom of his own methods reasserted itself, and he was again drawn into using them with much hopefulness. At this stage of affairs he was in excellent spirits, which even supported him under large advances of money; for his powers of convincing and persuading had not yet been, tested by anything more difficult than a chairman’s speech introducing other orators, or a dialogue with a Middlemarch voter, from which he came away with a sense that he was a tactician by nature, and that it was a pity he had not gone earlier into this kind of thing. He was a little conscious of defeat, however, with Mr. Mawmsey, a chief representative in Middlemarch of that great social power, the retail trader, and naturally one of the most doubtful voters in the borough—willing for his own part to supply an equal quality of teas and sugars to reformer and anti-reformer, as well as to agree impartially with both, and feeling like the burgesses of old that this necessity of electing members was a great burthen to a town; for even if there were no danger in holding out hopes to all parties beforehand, there would be the painful necessity at last of disappointing respectable people whose names were on his books. He was accustomed to receive large orders from Mr. Brooke of Tipton; but then, there were many of Pinkerton’s committee whose opinions had a great weight of grocery on their side. Mr. Mawmsey thinking that Mr. Brooke, as not too ‘clever in his intellects,’ was the more likely to forgive a grocer who gave a hostile vote under pressure, had become confidential in his back parlor.
布鲁克先生最后总是同意拉迪斯瓦夫的观点，在他看来，拉迪斯瓦夫仍然像是带有雪莱酵母的伯克。但过了一段时间，他自己的方法的智慧再次显现出来，他再次满怀希望地使用这些方法。在这个阶段，他的精神状态非常好，这甚至支撑着他预付大笔金钱。因为他的说服力和说服力还没有受到过任何比主席介绍其他演说家的演讲或与米德尔马奇选民的对话更困难的考验，从这些对话中他感觉到自己天生就是一个战术家，并且遗憾的是他没有早点介入这种事情。然而，他对莫姆西先生的失败感到有些不安。莫姆西先生是米德尔马奇这个伟大社会势力的首席代表，也是一位零售商人，自然也是该行政区最可疑的选民之一，他愿意以自己的方式提供一个改革者和反改革者享有同等质量的茶和糖，并且公正地同意两者，并且像旧时的自由民一样，认为选举成员的必要性对城镇来说是一个巨大的负担；因为，即使事先向各方抱有希望没有危险，最终也将不得不痛苦地让那些名字在他名册上的受人尊敬的人失望。他习惯于接受蒂普顿布鲁克先生的大订单。但随后，平克顿委员会的许多成员的意见都得到了很大的支持。莫姆西先生认为布鲁克先生“智力不太聪明”，因此更有可能原谅一位在压力下投出敌意投票的杂货商，这在他的后客厅里已成为机密。

‘As to Reform, sir, put it in a family light,’ he said, rattling the small silver in his pocket, and smiling affably. ‘Will it support Mrs. Mawmsey, and enable her to bring up six children when I am no more? I put the question FICTIOUSLY, knowing what must be the answer. Very well, sir. I ask you what, as a husband and a father, I am to do when gentlemen come to me and say, ‘Do as you like, Mawmsey; but if you vote against us, I shall get my groceries elsewhere: when I sugar my liquor I like to feel that I am benefiting the country by maintaining tradesmen of the right color.’ Those very words have been spoken to me, sir, in the very chair where you are now sitting. I don’t mean by your honorable self, Mr. Brooke.’
“至于改革，先生，请从家庭的角度来考虑，”他一边说，一边把口袋里的小银子叮当作响，和蔼地微笑着。 “当我去世后，它会支持莫姆西夫人，让她抚养六个孩子吗？”我虚构地提出了这个问题，知道答案是什么。很好，先生。我问你，作为一个丈夫和父亲，当先生们来找我说：‘按你的意愿行事，莫姆西；’我该怎么办？但如果你投票反对我们，我会去别处买杂货：当我给酒加糖时，我喜欢感觉通过维持正确肤色的商人而使国家受益。”先生，这些话是在就是你现在坐的椅子。我指的不是您的尊贵身份，布鲁克先生。”

‘No, no, no—that’s narrow, you know. Until my butler complains to me of your goods, Mr. Mawmsey,’ said Mr. Brooke, soothingly, ‘until I hear that you send bad sugars, spices—that sort of thing— I shall never order him to go elsewhere.’
“不，不，不——这太狭隘了，你知道。莫姆西先生，除非我的管家向我抱怨你的货物，”布鲁克先生安慰道，“除非我听说你寄来了劣质糖、香料——诸如此类的东西——我绝不会命令他去其他地方。

‘Sir, I am your humble servant, and greatly obliged,’ said Mr. Mawmsey, feeling that politics were clearing up a little. ‘There would be some pleasure in voting for a gentleman who speaks in that honorable manner.’
“先生，我是您卑微的仆人，非常感谢。”莫姆西先生说道，他感觉政治局势正在变得明朗起来。 “投票给一位以这种尊敬的方式说话的绅士会让人感到高兴。”

‘Well, you know, Mr. Mawmsey, you would find it the right thing to put yourself on our side. This Reform will touch everybody by-and-by— a thoroughly popular measure—a sort of A, B, C, you know, that must come first before the rest can follow. I quite agree with you that you’ve got to look at the thing in a family light: but public spirit, now. We’re all one family, you know— it’s all one cupboard. Such a thing as a vote, now: why, it may help to make men’s fortunes at the Cape—there’s no knowing what may be the effect of a vote,’ Mr. Brooke ended, with a sense of being a little out at sea, though finding it still enjoyable. But Mr. Mawmsey answered in a tone of decisive check.
“嗯，你知道，莫姆西先生，你会发现站在我们一边是正确的事情。这项改革将逐渐影响到每个人——一项非常受欢迎的措施——一种 A、B、C，你知道，必须首先实施，然后其他措施才能跟进。我非常同意你的观点，你必须从家庭的角度来看待这件事：但现在是公共精神。我们都是一家人，你知道的——都是一个橱柜。现在，像投票这样的事情：为什么，它可能有助于在开普敦发家致富——不知道投票会产生什么影响，”布鲁克先生结束时，带着一种有点茫然的感觉。 ，尽管发现它仍然很有趣。但莫姆西先生以一种果断、克制的语气回答道。

‘I beg your pardon, sir, but I can’t afford that. When I give a vote I must know what I am doing; I must look to what will be the effects on my till and ledger, speaking respectfully. Prices, I’ll admit, are what nobody can know the merits of; and the sudden falls after you’ve bought in currants, which are a goods that will not keep— I’ve never; myself seen into the ins and outs there; which is a rebuke to human pride. But as to one family, there’s debtor and creditor, I hope; they’re not going to reform that away; else I should vote for things staying as they are. Few men have less need to cry for change than I have, personally speaking—that is, for self and family. I am not one of those who have nothing to lose: I mean as to respectability both in parish and private business, and noways in respect of your honorable self and custom, which you was good enough to say you would not withdraw from me, vote or no vote, while the article sent in was satisfactory.’
“请您原谅，先生，但我负担不起。当我投票时，我必须知道我在做什么；恭敬地说，我必须看看我的收银台和分类账会受到什么影响。我承认，价格是没有人能知道其优点的。买了醋栗后突然下跌，醋栗是一种无法保存的商品——我从来没有；我自己已经了解了那里的来龙去脉；这是对人类骄傲的谴责。但对于一个家庭来说，我希望有债务人和债权人；他们不会通过改革来消除这一点；否则我应该投票支持保持现状。就我个人而言，很少有人比我更需要为改变而哭泣——即为自我和家庭。我不是那些没有什么可失去的人之一：我的意思是关于教区和私人事务中的尊重，而不是关于您光荣的自我和习俗，您足够好说您不会从我身边撤回，投票或没有投票，而发送的文章令人满意。

After this conversation Mr. Mawmsey went up and boasted to his wife that he had been rather too many for Brooke of Tipton, and that he didn’t mind so much now about going to the poll.
谈话结束后，莫姆西先生走上前向他的妻子吹嘘说，他对蒂普顿的布鲁克来说已经太多了，而且他现在不太介意去投票了。

Mr. Brooke on this occasion abstained from boasting of his tactics to Ladislaw, who for his part was glad enough to persuade himself that he had no concern with any canvassing except the purely argumentative sort, and that he worked no meaner engine than knowledge. Mr. Brooke, necessarily, had his agents, who understood the nature of the Middlemarch voter and the means of enlisting his ignorance on the side of the Bill—which were remarkably similar to the means of enlisting it on the side against the Bill. Will stopped his ears. Occasionally Parliament, like the rest of our lives, even to our eating and apparel, could hardly go on if our imaginations were too active about processes. There were plenty of dirty-handed men in the world to do dirty business; and Will protested to himself that his share in bringing Mr. Brooke through would be quite innocent.
布鲁克先生这次没有向拉迪斯瓦夫吹嘘他的策略，而拉迪斯瓦夫则很高兴地说服自己，除了纯粹的争论之外，他不关心任何游说活动，而且他所使用的引擎并不比知识更卑鄙。布鲁克先生必然有他的代理人，他们了解米德尔马奇选民的本质，以及利用他的无知站在法案一边的手段——这与利用他的无知站在反对法案一边的手段非常相似。威尔堵住了耳朵。有时，如果我们对过程的想象力过于活跃，议会就像我们的其他生活一样，甚至我们的饮食和服装也很难继续下去。世界上有很多肮脏的人做肮脏的事。威尔对自己抗议说，他在帮助布鲁克先生渡过难关方面所承担的责任是完全无辜的。

But whether he should succeed in that mode of contributing to the majority on the right side was very doubtful to him. He had written out various speeches and memoranda for speeches, but he had begun to perceive that Mr. Brooke’s mind, if it had the burthen of remembering any train of thought, would let it drop, run away in search of it, and not easily come back again. To collect documents is one mode of serving your country, and to remember the contents of a document is another. No! the only way in which Mr. Brooke could be coerced into thinking of the right arguments at the right time was to be well plied with them till they took up all the room in his brain. But here there was the difficulty of finding room, so many things having been taken in beforehand. Mr. Brooke himself observed that his ideas stood rather in his way when he was speaking.
但他是否应该成功地以这种方式为右派做出贡献，这对他来说是非常值得怀疑的。他写了各种演讲稿和演讲备忘录，但他开始意识到，布鲁克先生的头脑，如果有记住任何思路的负担，就会让它放下，跑开去寻找它，而且并不容易。再回来。收集文件是报效国家的一种方式，而记住文件的内容则是另一种方式。不！迫使布鲁克先生在正确的时间思考正确的论点的唯一方法就是反复思考这些论点，直到它们占据了他大脑的所有空间。但这里很难找到空间，因为很多东西都已经被提前收走了。布鲁克先生本人观察到，当他讲话时，他的想法相当妨碍他。

However, Ladislaw’s coaching was forthwith to be put to the test, for before the day of nomination Mr. Brooke was to explain himself to the worthy electors of Middlemarch from the balcony of the White Hart, which looked out advantageously at an angle of the market-place, commanding a large area in front and two converging streets. It was a fine May morning, and everything seemed hopeful: there was some prospect of an understanding between Bagster’s committee and Brooke’s, to which Mr. Bulstrode, Mr. Standish as a Liberal lawyer, and such manufacturers as Mr. Plymdale and Mr. Vincy, gave a solidity which almost counterbalanced Mr. Hawley and his associates who sat for Pinkerton at the Green Dragon. Mr. Brooke, conscious of having weakened the blasts of the ‘Trumpet’ against him, by his reforms as a landlord in the last half year, and hearing himself cheered a little as he drove into the town, felt his heart tolerably light under his buff-colored waistcoat. But with regard to critical occasions, it often happens that all moments seem comfortably remote until the last.
然而，拉迪斯瓦夫的执教很快就受到了考验，因为在提名日之前，布鲁克先生要在白鹿宫的阳台上向米德尔马契的可敬的选举人解释自己的情况，从市场的角度来看，阳台是有利的。 - 地方，前面有一大片区域和两条交汇的街道。那是五月的一个晴朗的早晨，一切似乎都充满希望：巴格斯特的委员会和布鲁克的委员会之间有可能达成某种谅解，布尔斯特罗德先生、自由党律师斯坦迪什先生以及普利姆代尔先生和文西先生等制造商都对此表示支持。 ，提供了一种坚固性，几乎抵消了霍利先生和他在绿龙的平克顿的同事们的影响。布鲁克先生意识到，过去半年里他作为地主的改革已经削弱了针对他的“小号”吹响，当他开车进城时，他听到自己有点欢呼，感觉他的心在他的掌声下还算轻松。浅黄色背心。但在关键时刻，常常会发生这样的情况：直到最后一刻，所有时刻都显得遥不可及。

‘This looks well, eh?’ said Mr. Brooke as the crowd gathered. ‘I shall have a good audience, at any rate. I like this, now— this kind of public made up of one’s own neighbors, you know.’
“这看起来不错，嗯？”当人群聚集时，布鲁克先生说道。 “无论如何，我将拥有一批很好的观众。我现在喜欢这样——这种由自己的邻居组成的公众，你知道。

The weavers and tanners of Middlemarch, unlike Mr. Mawmsey, had never thought of Mr. Brooke as a neighbor, and were not more attached to him than if he had been sent in a box from London. But they listened without much disturbance to the speakers who introduced the candidate, one of them—a political personage from Brassing, who came to tell Middlemarch its duty—spoke so fully, that it was alarming to think what the candidate could find to say after him. Meanwhile the crowd became denser, and as the political personage neared the end of his speech, Mr. Brooke felt a remarkable change in his sensations while he still handled his eye-glass, trifled with documents before him, and exchanged remarks with his committee, as a man to whom the moment of summons was indifferent.
与莫姆西先生不同，米德尔马奇的织布工和制革工从来没有把布鲁克先生视为邻居，他们对他的依恋并不比他是从伦敦装在一个盒子里寄来的更亲近。但他们没有受到太大干扰地听着介绍候选人的演讲者，其中一位来自布拉辛的政治人物，来告诉米德尔马奇它的职责，讲得如此充分，以至于想到候选人在演讲结束后会说些什么，真是令人震惊。他。与此同时，人群变得更加密集，当政治人物的演讲接近尾声时，布鲁克先生感到自己的感觉发生了显着的变化，同时他仍然拿着他的眼镜，摆弄着面前的文件，并与他的委员会交换了意见，作为一个对召唤时刻漠不关心的人。

‘I’ll take another glass of sherry, Ladislaw,’ he said, with an easy air, to Will, who was close behind him, and presently handed him the supposed fortifier. It was ill-chosen; for Mr. Brooke was an abstemious man, and to drink a second glass of sherry quickly at no great interval from the first was a surprise to his system which tended to scatter his energies instead of collecting them Pray pity him: so many English gentlemen make themselves miserable by speechifying on entirely private grounds! whereas Mr. Brooke wished to serve his country by standing for Parliament—which, indeed, may also be done on private grounds, but being once undertaken does absolutely demand some speechifying.
“我要再喝一杯雪利酒，拉迪斯瓦夫，”他轻松地对紧跟在他身后的威尔说，然后把所谓的强化剂递给了他。这是一个错误的选择；因为布鲁克先生是个有节制的人，在与第一杯雪利酒相隔不远的情况下迅速喝下第二杯雪利酒，对他的系统来说是一个惊喜，因为他的系统往往会分散他的能量而不是收集它们，请可怜他：这么多英国绅士他们自己因完全出于私人原因而发表言论而感到痛苦！而布鲁克先生希望通过代表议会来为国家服务——事实上，这也可以出于私人原因而进行，但一旦这样做就绝对需要一些演讲。

It was not about the beginning of his speech that Mr. Brooke was at all anxious; this, he felt sure, would be all right; he should have it quite pat, cut out as neatly as a set of couplets from Pope. Embarking would be easy, but the vision of open sea that might come after was alarming. ‘And questions, now,’ hinted the demon just waking up in his stomach, ‘somebody may put questions about the schedules.—Ladislaw,’ he continued, aloud, ‘just hand me the memorandum of the schedules.’
布鲁克先生的焦虑并不在于他演讲的开头，而是在于他的演讲。他确信这样就可以了。他应该把它剪得很漂亮，剪得像教皇的一副对联一样整齐。登船很容易，但随后可能出现的公海景象却令人震惊。 “现在还有问题，”胃里刚刚苏醒的恶魔暗示道，“有人可能会对日程表提出疑问。——拉迪斯瓦夫，”他大声继续说道，“把日程表备忘录递给我吧。”

When Mr. Brooke presented himself on the balcony, the cheers were quite loud enough to counterbalance the yells, groans, brayings, and other expressions of adverse theory, which were so moderate that Mr. Standish (decidedly an old bird) observed in the ear next to him, ‘This looks dangerous, by God! Hawley has got some deeper plan than this.’ Still, the cheers were exhilarating, and no candidate could look more amiable than Mr. Brooke, with the memorandum in his breast-pocket, his left hand on the rail of the balcony, and his right trifling with his eye-glass. The striking points in his appearance were his buff waistcoat, short-clipped blond hair, and neutral physiognomy. He began with some confidence.
当布鲁克先生出现在阳台上时，欢呼声相当响亮，足以抵消喊叫、呻吟、嘶哑和其他反对理论的表达，这些表达是如此温和，以至于斯坦迪什先生（无疑是一位老鸟）在耳边观察到在他旁边，“天哪，这看起来很危险！”霍利还有比这更深层次的计划。”尽管如此，欢呼声还是令人振奋，没有哪个候选人看起来比布鲁克先生更和蔼可亲了，他的备忘录放在胸前的口袋里，左手放在阳台的栏杆上，而他的手则放在桌子上。正确地对待他的眼镜。他外表上最引人注目的地方是他的浅黄色马甲、剪得很短的金发和中性的相貌。他开始时充满了信心。

‘Gentlemen—Electors of Middlemarch!’
“先生们——米德尔马契的选帝侯们！”

This was so much the right thing that a little pause after it seemed natural.
这是一件非常正确的事情，以至于之后的短暂停顿似乎是很自然的。

‘I’m uncommonly glad to be here—I was never so proud and happy in my life—never so happy, you know.’
“我非常高兴来到这里——我一生中从未如此自豪和快乐——从未如此快乐，你知道。”

This was a bold figure of speech, but not exactly the right thing; for, unhappily, the pat opening had slipped away—even couplets from Pope may be but ‘fallings from us, vanishings,’ when fear clutches us, and a glass of sherry is hurrying like smoke among our ideas. Ladislaw, who stood at the window behind the speaker, thought, ‘it’s all up now. The only chance is that, since the best thing won’t always do, floundering may answer for once.’ Mr. Brooke, meanwhile, having lost other clews, fell back on himself and his qualifications—always an appropriate graceful subject for a candidate.
这是一个大胆的修辞手法，但并不完全正确。因为，不幸的是，当恐惧抓住我们，一杯雪利酒像烟雾一样在我们的想法中匆匆而过时，即使是教皇的对联也可能只是“从我们身上掉落，消失”。拉迪斯瓦夫站在演讲者身后的窗户旁，心想：“现在一切都过去了。” ” 。

‘I am a close neighbor of yours, my good friends—you’ve known me on the bench a good while—I’ve always gone a good deal into public questions—machinery, now, and machine-breaking—you’re many of you concerned with machinery, and I’ve been going into that lately. It won’t do, you know, breaking machines: everything must go on— trade, manufactures, commerce, interchange of staples—that kind of thing—since Adam Smith, that must go on. We must look all over the globe:—‘Observation with extensive view,’ must look everywhere, ‘from China to Peru,’ as somebody says—Johnson, I think, ‘The Rambler,’ you know. That is what I have done up to a certain point—not as far as Peru; but I’ve not always stayed at home—I saw it wouldn’t do. I’ve been in the Levant, where some of your Middlemarch goods go— and then, again, in the Baltic. The Baltic, now.’
“我是你们的近邻，我的好朋友——你们在板凳上认识我已经有一段时间了——我总是深入探讨公共问题——现在是机械，还有机器损坏——你们很多你们关心机械，我最近一直在研究这个问题。你知道，破坏机器是行不通的：一切都必须继续下去——贸易、制造、商业、主食交换——诸如此类的事情——自从亚当·斯密以来，一切都必须继续下去。我们必须放眼全球：“以广阔的视野进行观察”，必须放眼四面八方，“从中国到秘鲁”，正如有人所说，约翰逊，我想，“漫步者”，你知道。这就是我在某种程度上所做的事情——不至于秘鲁；但我并不总是呆在家里——我发现这样不行。我去过黎凡特，你们的一些米德尔马契货物都去那里——然后又去了波罗的海。波罗的海，现在。

Plying among his recollections in this way, Mr. Brooke might have got along, easily to himself, and would have come back from the remotest seas without trouble; but a diabolical procedure had been set up by the enemy. At one and the same moment there had risen above the shoulders of the crowd, nearly opposite Mr. Brooke, and within ten yards of him, the effigy of himself: buff-colored waistcoat, eye-glass, and neutral physiognomy, painted on rag; and there had arisen, apparently in the air, like the note of the cuckoo, a parrot-like, Punch-voiced echo of his words. Everybody looked up at the open windows in the houses at the opposite angles of the converging streets; but they were either blank, or filled by laughing listeners. The most innocent echo has an impish mockery in it when it follows a gravely persistent speaker, and this echo was not at all innocent; if it did not follow with the precision of a natural echo, it had a wicked choice of the words it overtook. By the time it said, ‘The Baltic, now,’ the laugh which had been running through the audience became a general shout, and but for the sobering effects of party and that great public cause which the entanglement of things had identified with ‘Brooke of Tipton,’ the laugh might have caught his committee. Mr. Bulstrode asked, reprehensively, what the new police was doing; but a voice could not well be collared, and an attack on the effigy of the candidate would have been too equivocal, since Hawley probably meant it to be pelted.
布鲁克先生以这种方式在他的回忆中游走，他可能会很容易地与自己相处，并且可以毫无困难地从最遥远的海洋回来；但是，他可能会遇到麻烦。但敌人已经制定了一个邪恶的程序。就在同一时刻，他自己的肖像出现在人群的肩膀上方，几乎就在布鲁克先生的对面，距离他不到十码：浅黄色的背心，戴着眼镜，中性的相貌，画在抹布上。 ;显然，空气中出现了他的话的鹦鹉般的、潘趣般的回声，就像布谷鸟的叫声一样。每个人都抬头看着街道交汇处对面房屋开着的窗户。但它们要么是空白的，要么是充满笑声的听众。当最无辜的回声跟着一个严肃而执着的说话者时，其中就会有一种顽皮的嘲讽，而这种回声根本不是无辜的。如果它没有像自然回声那样精确地跟随，那么它所取代的词语就具有邪恶的选择。当它说“波罗的海，现在”时，观众席上的笑声变成了普遍的喊叫，要不是派对和伟大的公共事业的清醒作用，事情的纠缠已经与“布鲁克”联系在一起了。蒂普顿的，”他的委员会可能会笑起来。布尔斯特罗德先生责备地问新警察在做什么；但声音不太可能被圈住，而且对候选人的肖像进行攻击也太模棱两可，因为霍利可能意味着要向它投掷。

Mr. Brooke himself was not in a position to be quickly conscious of anything except a general slipping away of ideas within himself: he had even a little singing in the ears, and he was the only person who had not yet taken distinct account of the echo or discerned the image of himself. Few things hold the perceptions more thoroughly captive than anxiety about what we have got to say. Mr. Brooke heard the laughter; but he had expected some Tory efforts at disturbance, and he was at this moment additionally excited by the tickling, stinging sense that his lost exordium was coming back to fetch him from the Baltic.
布鲁克先生本人无法迅速意识到任何事情，除了自己内心的想法普遍消失之外：他的耳边甚至有一点歌声，他是唯一一个还没有清楚地考虑到这一点的人。回响或辨别出他自己的形象。没有什么比对我们要说的话感到焦虑更彻底地束缚我们的看法了。布鲁克先生听到了笑声。但他预料到保守党会采取一些行动来扰乱他，此刻他还因为一种令人发痒、刺痛的感觉而兴奋不已，因为他丢失的序言即将回来，把他从波罗的海接回来。

‘That reminds me,’ he went on, thrusting a hand into his side-pocket, with an easy air, ‘if I wanted a precedent, you know—but we never want a precedent for the right thing—but there is Chatham, now; I can’t say I should have supported Chatham, or Pitt, the younger Pitt— he was not a man of ideas, and we want ideas, you know.’
“这提醒了我，”他继续说道，将一只手伸进侧袋，神情轻松，“如果我想要一个先例，你知道——但我们从来不想要一个正确的先例——但是有查塔姆，现在;我不能说我应该支持查塔姆或皮特，小皮特——他不是一个有想法的人，你知道，我们需要想法。

‘Blast your ideas! we want the Bill,’ said a loud rough voice from the crowd below.
‘打破你的想法！我们想要这项法案。”下面人群中传来一个粗鲁的声音。

Immediately the invisible Punch, who had hitherto followed Mr. Brooke, repeated, ‘Blast your ideas! we want the Bill.’ The laugh was louder than ever, and for the first time Mr. Brooke being himself silent, heard distinctly the mocking echo. But it seemed to ridicule his interrupter, and in that light was encouraging; so he replied with amenity—
迄今为止一直跟随布鲁克先生的隐形庞奇立即重复道：“让你的想法见鬼去吧！”我们想要法案。”笑声比以往任何时候都更大，布鲁克先生第一次保持沉默，清楚地听到了嘲笑的回声。但这似乎是在嘲笑打断他的人，从这个角度来看，这是令人鼓舞的。于是他亲切地回答道——

‘There is something in what you say, my good friend, and what do we meet for but to speak our minds—freedom of opinion, freedom of the press, liberty—that kind of thing? The Bill, now—you shall have the Bill’—here Mr. Brooke paused a moment to fix on his eye-glass and take the paper from his breast-pocket, with a sense of being practical and coming to particulars. The invisible Punch followed:—
‘我的好朋友，你所说的有些道理，我们见面除了说出自己的想法之外还有什么目的——见解自由、新闻自由、自由——诸如此类的事情？法案，现在——你应该拿到法案了”——说到这里，布鲁克先生停顿了一会儿，盯着他的眼镜，从胸前的口袋里拿出那张纸，带着一种务实、注重细节的感觉。无形的一拳随之而来：——

‘You shall have the Bill, Mr. Brooke, per electioneering contest, and a seat outside Parliament as delivered, five thousand pounds, seven shillings, and fourpence.’
“布鲁克先生，每次竞选活动，您都将获得该法案，以及交付后的议会外席位，五千英镑、七先令和四便士。”

Mr. Brooke, amid the roars of laughter, turned red, let his eye-glass fall, and looking about him confusedly, saw the image of himself, which had come nearer. The next moment he saw it dolorously bespattered with eggs. His spirit rose a little, and his voice too.
布鲁克先生在一阵笑声中涨红了脸，放下了眼镜，困惑地环顾四周，看到了自己的影子，已经越来越近了。下一刻，他看到它悲伤地沾满了鸡蛋。他的精神振奋了一些，声音也振奋了一些。

‘Buffoonery, tricks, ridicule the test of truth—all that is very well’—here an unpleasant egg broke on Mr. Brooke’s shoulder, as the echo said, ‘All that is very well;’ then came a hail of eggs, chiefly aimed at the image, but occasionally hitting the original, as if by chance. There was a stream of new men pushing among the crowd; whistles, yells, bellowings, and fifes made all the greater hubbub because there was shouting and struggling to put them down. No voice would have had wing enough to rise above the uproar, and Mr. Brooke, disagreeably anointed, stood his ground no longer. The frustration would have been less exasperating if it had been less gamesome and boyish: a serious assault of which the newspaper reporter ‘can aver that it endangered the learned gentleman’s ribs,’ or can respectfully bear witness to ‘the soles of that gentleman’s boots having been visible above the railing,’ has perhaps more consolations attached to it.
“滑稽戏、诡计、嘲笑真理的检验——一切都很好”——这时，一个令人不快的鸡蛋落在布鲁克先生的肩膀上，回声说，“一切都很好；”然后是一阵鸡蛋冰雹，主要是瞄准图像，但偶尔会撞到原作，仿佛偶然。一群新人在人群中挤来挤去。口哨声、叫喊声、吼叫声和横笛声使一切变得更加喧闹，因为有人喊叫，有人拼命想把他们压下去。没有任何声音能够超越喧嚣，而布鲁克先生，被令人不快地指定，不再坚持自己的立场。如果它不那么游戏性和孩子气的话，这种挫败感就不会那么令人恼火：报纸记者“可以断言它危及了这位博学的绅士的肋骨”，或者可以恭敬地见证“那位绅士的靴底有在栏杆上方可见，”也许还有更多的安慰。

Mr. Brooke re-entered the committee-room, saying, as carelessly as he could, ‘This is a little too bad, you know. I should have got the ear of the people by-and-by—but they didn’t give me time. I should have gone into the Bill by-and-by, you know,’ he added, glancing at Ladislaw. ‘However, things will come all right at the nomination.’
布鲁克先生重新进入委员会会议室，尽可能漫不经心地说：“你知道，这有点太糟糕了。”我应该很快就能得到人们的注意——但他们没有给我时间。你知道，我应该早点讨论这项法案，”他补充道，看了一眼拉迪斯瓦。 “不过，提名后一切都会好起来的。”

But it was not resolved unanimously that things would come right; on the contrary, the committee looked rather grim, and the political personage from Brassing was writing busily, as if he were brewing new devices.
但大家并没有一致认为事情会顺利进行。相反，委员会显得相当严峻，来自布拉辛的政界人士正在忙着写信，仿佛在酝酿新的诡计。

‘It was Bowyer who did it,’ said Mr. Standish, evasively. ‘I know it as well as if he had been advertised. He’s uncommonly good at ventriloquism, and he did it uncommonly well, by God! Hawley has been having him to dinner lately: there’s a fund of talent in Bowyer.’
“是鲍耶干的，”斯坦迪什先生闪烁其词地说。 “我很清楚这一点，就好像他已经做过广告一样。他的口技非常出色，而且他做得非常好，上帝啊！霍利最近一直在请他吃饭：鲍耶有一批人才。

‘Well, you know, you never mentioned him to me, Standish, else I would have invited him to dine,’ said poor Mr. Brooke, who had gone through a great deal of inviting for the good of his country.
“好吧，你知道，你从来没有向我提起过他，斯坦迪什，否则我会邀请他来吃饭的，”可怜的布鲁克先生说，为了他的国家的利益，他经历了很多邀请。

‘There’s not a more paltry fellow in Middlemarch than Bowyer,’ said Ladislaw, indignantly, ‘but it seems as if the paltry fellows were always to turn the scale.’
“米德尔马契没有比鲍耶更卑鄙的家伙了，”拉迪斯洛愤怒地说，“但那些卑鄙的家伙似乎总是能扭转局面。”

Will was thoroughly out of temper with himself as well as with his ‘principal,’ and he went to shut himself in his rooms with a half-formed resolve to throw up the ‘Pioneer’ and Mr. Brooke together. Why should he stay? If the impassable gulf between himself and Dorothea were ever to be filled up, it must rather be by his going away and getting into a thoroughly different position than by staying here and slipping into deserved contempt as an understrapper of Brooke’s. Then came the young dream of wonders that he might do— in five years, for example: political writing, political speaking, would get a higher value now public life was going to be wider and more national, and they might give him such distinction that he would not seem to be asking Dorothea to step down to him. Five years:— if he could only be sure that she cared for him more than for others; if he could only make her aware that he stood aloof until he could tell his love without lowering himself—then he could go away easily, and begin a career which at five-and-twenty seemed probable enough in the inward order of things, where talent brings fame, and fame everything else which is delightful. He could speak and he could write; he could master any subject if he chose, and he meant always to take the side of reason and justice, on which he would carry all his ardor. Why should he not one day be lifted above the shoulders of the crowd, and feel that he had won that eminence well? Without doubt he would leave Middlemarch, go to town, and make himself fit for celebrity by ‘eating his dinners.’
威尔对自己和他的“校长”都彻底发脾气了，他把自己关在自己的房间里，半信半疑地决定要把“先锋”和布鲁克先生一起扔掉。他为什么要留下来？如果要填补他和多萝西娅之间不可逾越的鸿沟，那一定是他走开，进入一个完全不同的境地，而不是留在这里，作为布鲁克的下属而受到应有的蔑视。然后，年轻的梦想出现了，他可能会在五年内创造奇迹，例如：政治写作、政治演讲将获得更高的价值，因为公共生活将变得更广泛、更全国性，他们可能会给他这样的荣誉：他似乎不会要求多萝西娅让位给他。五年：——如果他能确定她对他的关心胜过对其他人的关心就好了；如果他只能让她意识到，他站在一边，直到他能够在不降低自己的情况下表达他的爱，那么他就可以轻松地离开，并开始他的职业生涯，从事物的内在顺序来看，五岁和二十岁似乎已经足够了，在那里才华带来名气，名气带来一切令人高兴的事情。他能说话，也能写字；如果他选择的话，他可以掌握任何科目，而且他总是站在理性和正义一边，并为此倾注全部热情。为什么有一天他不应该被举到众人的肩膀之上，并感到自己已经赢得了这一显赫地位呢？毫无疑问，他会离开米德尔马奇，进城，通过“吃他的晚餐”让自己适合名人。

But not immediately: not until some kind of sign had passed between him and Dorothea. He could not be satisfied until she knew why, even if he were the man she would choose to marry, he would not marry her. Hence he must keep his post and bear with Mr. Brooke a little longer.
但不是立即：直到他和多萝西娅之间传递出某种迹象。他无法满足，直到她知道为什么，即使他是她选择结婚的男人，他也不会嫁给她。因此，他必须坚守自己的岗位，对布鲁克先生再忍耐一会儿。

But he soon had reason to suspect that Mr. Brooke had anticipated him in the wish to break up their connection. Deputations without and voices within had concurred in inducing that philanthropist to take a stronger measure than usual for the good of mankind; namely, to withdraw in favor of another candidate, to whom he left the advantages of his canvassing machinery. He himself called this a strong measure, but observed that his health was less capable of sustaining excitement than he had imagined.
但他很快就有理由怀疑布鲁克先生早在他之前就想中断他们的联系。外部代表和内部声音一致促使这位慈善家为了人类的利益而采取比平常更强有力的措施；也就是说，退出以支持另一位候选人，他将拉票机制的优势留给了这位候选人。他本人称这是一项强有力的措施，但他发现自己的健康状况不如他想象的那样难以维持兴奋。

‘I have felt uneasy about the chest—it won’t do to carry that too far,’ he said to Ladislaw in explaining the affair. ‘I must pull up. Poor Casaubon was a warning, you know. I’ve made some heavy advances, but I’ve dug a channel. It’s rather coarse work—this electioneering, eh, Ladislaw? dare say you are tired of it. However, we have dug a channel with the ‘Pioneer’—put things in a track, and so on. A more ordinary man than you might carry it on now—more ordinary, you know.’
“我对这个箱子感到不安——不能太过分，”他在解释此事时对拉迪斯瓦说道。 “我必须停下来。你知道，可怜的卡索邦是一个警告。我已经取得了一些重大进展，但我已经挖掘了一条通道。这是相当粗俗的工作——这种竞选活动，呃，拉迪斯瓦夫？敢说你已经厌倦了。不过我们跟‘先锋’挖了一个通道——把东西放到轨道上等等。一个比你更普通的人现在可能会继续下去——更普通，你知道。

‘Do you wish me to give it up?’ said Will, the quick color coming in his face, as he rose from the writing-table, and took a turn of three steps with his hands in his pockets. ‘I am ready to do so whenever you wish it.’
“你希望我放弃它吗？”威尔说，他从写字台上站起来，双手插在口袋里，转了三步。 “只要你愿意，我随时准备这样做。”

‘As to wishing, my dear Ladislaw, I have the highest opinion of your powers, you know. But about the ‘Pioneer,’ I have been consulting a little with some of the men on our side, and they are inclined to take it into their hands—indemnify me to a certain extent—carry it on, in fact. And under the circumstances, you might like to give up— might find a better field. These people might not take that high view of you which I have always taken, as an alter ego, a right hand— though I always looked forward to your doing something else. I think of having a run into France. But I’ll write you any letters, you know—to Althorpe and people of that kind. I’ve met Althorpe.’
“至于愿望，我亲爱的拉迪斯瓦夫，我对你的能力有着最高的评价，你知道的。但关于《先锋》，我已经和我们这边的一些人进行了一些协商，他们倾向于把它掌握在自己手中——在一定程度上赔偿我——事实上，把它继续下去。在这种情况下，你可能想放弃——可能会找到更好的领域。这些人可能不会像我一直以来那样高度评价你，将你视为另一个自我，右手——尽管我一直期待你做其他事情。我想到去法国跑一趟。但我会给你写任何信，你知道的——写给奥尔索普和类似的人。我见过奥​​尔索普。

‘I am exceedingly obliged to you,’ said Ladislaw, proudly. ‘Since you are going to part with the ‘Pioneer,’ I need not trouble you about the steps I shall take. I may choose to continue here for the present.’
“我非常感谢你，”拉迪斯瓦夫自豪地说。既然你要和‘先锋’分开，我就不用再麻烦你了。我可能会选择暂时留在这里。

After Mr. Brooke had left him Will said to himself, ‘The rest of the family have been urging him to get rid of me, and he doesn’t care now about my going. I shall stay as long as I like. I shall go of my own movements and not because they are afraid of me.’
布鲁克先生离开后，威尔对自己说：“家里的其他人一直在催促他摆脱我，而他现在并不关心我的离开。”我愿意呆多久就呆多久。我将按照自己的行动行事，而不是因为他们害怕我。

CHAPTER LII
第十三章

‘His heart
'他的心

The lowliest duties on itself did lay.’
最低的职责确实存在。

—WORDSWORTH.
——华兹沃斯。

On that June evening when Mr. Farebrother knew that he was to have the Lowick living, there was joy in the old fashioned parlor, and even the portraits of the great lawyers seemed to look on with satisfaction. His mother left her tea and toast untouched, but sat with her usual pretty primness, only showing her emotion by that flush in the cheeks and brightness in the eyes which give an old woman a touching momentary identity with her far-off youthful self, and saying decisively—
六月的那个晚上，当费雷布拉泽先生知道他要在洛威克住时，老式客厅里充满了欢乐，甚至伟大律师的肖像似乎也满意地看着。他的母亲没有动她的茶和烤面包，而是像往常一样拘谨地坐着，只是通过脸颊的红润和眼睛的明亮来表达她的情感，这让一位老妇人在瞬间与遥远的年轻自我产生了感人的认同。斩钉截铁地说——

‘The greatest comfort, Camden, is that you have deserved it.’
“卡姆登，最大的安慰是你应得的。”

‘When a man gets a good berth, mother, half the deserving must come after,’ said the son, brimful of pleasure, and not trying to conceal it. The gladness in his face was of that active kind which seems to have energy enough not only to flash outwardly, but to light up busy vision within: one seemed to see thoughts, as well as delight, in his glances.
“母亲，当一个人得到好位置时，他应得的一半一定会随之而来。”儿子满怀喜悦地说，并没有试图掩饰这一点。他脸上的高兴是那种活跃的，似乎有足够的能量，不仅能向外闪烁，而且能照亮内心忙碌的视野：人们似乎在他的眼神中看到了想法，也看到了喜悦。

‘Now, aunt,’ he went on, rubbing his hands and looking at Miss Noble, who was making tender little beaver-like noises, ‘There shall be sugar-candy always on the table for you to steal and give to the children, and you shall have a great many new stockings to make presents of, and you shall darn your own more than ever!’
“婶婶，”他继续说，一边搓着手，一边看着诺布尔小姐，她正发出海狸般的温柔小声，“桌子上永远有糖果，你可以偷来送给孩子们，你将会有很多新的长袜可以用来做礼物，而且你会比以前更多地缝补你自己的长袜！

Miss Noble nodded at her nephew with a subdued half-frightened laugh, conscious of having already dropped an additional lump of sugar into her basket on the strength of the new preferment.
诺布尔小姐带着一种压抑的、半是害怕的笑声向她的侄子点了点头，意识到由于新的晋升，她已经在她的篮子里又扔了一块糖。

‘As for you, Winny’—the Vicar went on—‘I shall make no difficulty about your marrying any Lowick bachelor—Mr. Solomon Featherstone, for example, as soon as I find you are in love with him.’
“至于你，温妮，”牧师继续说道，“我不会对你嫁给任何一个洛伊克单身汉——洛伊克先生”提出任何异议。例如，所罗门·费瑟斯通，一旦我发现你爱上了他。

Miss Winifred, who had been looking at her brother all the while and crying heartily, which was her way of rejoicing, smiled through her tears and said, ‘You must set me the example, Cam: YOU must marry now.’
温妮弗莱德小姐一直看着她的哥哥，痛哭流涕，这是她高兴的方式，她含着泪微笑着说：“你必须给我树立榜样，卡姆：你现在就必须结婚。”

‘With all my heart. But who is in love with me? I am a seedy old fellow,’ said the Vicar, rising, pushing his chair away and looking down at himself. ‘What do you say, mother?’
'一心一意。但谁爱我呢？我是个肮脏的老家伙。”牧师站起来，推开椅子，低头看着自己。 “你说什么，妈妈？”

‘You are a handsome man, Camden: though not so fine a figure of a man as your father,’ said the old lady.
“你是个英俊的男人，卡姆登，虽然身材不如你父亲那么优秀，”老太太说。

‘I wish you would marry Miss Garth, brother,’ said Miss Winifred. ‘She would make us so lively at Lowick.’
“我希望你能娶加斯小姐，兄弟，”威妮弗雷德小姐说。 “她会让我们在洛威克变得如此活跃。”

‘Very fine! You talk as if young women were tied up to be chosen, like poultry at market; as if I had only to ask and everybody would have me,’ said the Vicar, not caring to specify.
'很好！你说话的语气就好像年轻女性被束缚着等待被选中，就像市场上的家禽一样；就好像我只要提出要求，每个人都会接受我一样。”牧师说道，并不想具体说明。

‘We don’t want everybody,’ said Miss Winifred. ‘But YOU would like Miss Garth, mother, shouldn’t you?’
“我们不想要所有人，”威妮弗雷德小姐说。 “但是你会喜欢加斯小姐，妈妈，不是吗？”

‘My son’s choice shall be mine,’ said Mrs. Farebrother, with majestic discretion, ‘and a wife would be most welcome, Camden. You will want your whist at home when we go to Lowick, and Henrietta Noble never was a whist-player.’ (Mrs. Farebrother always called her tiny old sister by that magnificent name.)
“我儿子的选择是我的，”法尔布拉泽夫人以庄严的审慎态度说道，“卡姆登，我会非常欢迎妻子的。”当我们去洛威克时，你会想要在家里使用惠斯特，而亨利埃塔·诺布尔从来都不是惠斯特玩家。”（法尔布拉泽夫人总是用这个华丽的名字来称呼她的小姐姐。）

‘I shall do without whist now, mother.’
“我现在不用惠斯特了，妈妈。”

‘Why so, Camden? In my time whist was thought an undeniable amusement for a good churchman,’ said Mrs. Farebrother, innocent of the meaning that whist had for her son, and speaking rather sharply, as at some dangerous countenancing of new doctrine.
“为什么会这样，卡姆登？在我那个时代，惠斯特被认为是一位优秀牧师不可否认的娱乐活动。”法尔布拉泽夫人说，她对惠斯特对她儿子的意义一无所知，而且说话相当尖刻，就像对新教义的危险支持一样。

‘I shall be too busy for whist; I shall have two parishes,’ said the Vicar, preferring not to discuss the virtues of that game.
“我太忙了，没时间打惠斯特；我将拥有两个教区，”牧师说道，他不想讨论这场游戏的优点。

He had already said to Dorothea, ‘I don’t feel bound to give up St. Botolph’s. It is protest enough against the pluralism they want to reform if I give somebody else most of the money. The stronger thing is not to give up power, but to use it well.’
他已经对多萝西娅说过，‘我觉得没有必要放弃圣博托夫’。如果我把大部分钱给别人，这就是对他们想要改革的多元化的足够抗议。更强大的事情不是放弃权力，而是好好利用它。”

‘I have thought of that,’ said Dorothea. ‘So far as self is concerned, I think it would be easier to give up power and money than to keep them. It seems very unfitting that I should have this patronage, yet I felt that I ought not to let it be used by some one else instead of me.’
“我已经想到了，”多萝西娅说。 “就自我而言，我认为放弃权力和金钱比保留它们更容易。我得到这种赞助似乎很不合适，但我觉得我不应该让它被别人而不是我所利用。

‘It is I who am bound to act so that you will not regret your power,’ said Mr. Farebrother.
“我有义务采取行动，这样你就不会后悔自己的权力，”法尔布拉泽先生说道。

His was one of the natures in which conscience gets the more active when the yoke of life ceases to gall them. He made no display of humility on the subject, but in his heart he felt rather ashamed that his conduct had shown laches which others who did not get benefices were free from.
他的天性之一是，当生活的枷锁不再折磨他们时，良心就会变得更加活跃。他在这个问题上并没有表现出谦逊，但他内心感到相当羞愧，因为他的行为表现出了其他没有得到圣职的人所没有的懈怠。

‘I used often to wish I had been something else than a clergyman,’ he said to Lydgate, ‘but perhaps it will be better to try and make as good a clergyman out of myself as I can. That is the well-beneficed point of view, you perceive, from which difficulties are much simplified,’ he ended, smiling.
“我常常希望自己不是一名牧师，”他对利德盖特说，“但也许最好是尽力让自己成为一名优秀的牧师。”你会发现，这是一种有益的观点，从中可以大大简化困难。”他微笑着结束道。

The Vicar did feel then as if his share of duties would be easy. But Duty has a trick of behaving unexpectedly—something like a heavy friend whom we have amiably asked to visit us, and who breaks his leg within our gates.
牧师当时确实觉得他的职责似乎很容易。但职责有一个表现得出乎意料的诡计——就像一个我们友善地邀请来拜访我们的好朋友，他却在我们家门口摔断了腿。

Hardly a week later, Duty presented itself in his study under the disguise of Fred Vincy, now returned from Omnibus College with his bachelor’s degree.
不到一周后，杜蒂以弗雷德·文西的身份出现在他的书房中，弗雷德·文西现在从综合学院回来，获得了学士学位。

‘I am ashamed to trouble you, Mr. Farebrother,’ said Fred, whose fair open face was propitiating, ‘but you are the only friend I can consult. I told you everything once before, and you were so good that I can’t help coming to you again.’
“费雷布拉泽先生，我很荣幸打扰您，”弗雷德说道，他那张白皙的脸上充满了安慰，“但您是我唯一可以咨询的朋友。我已经把一切都告诉过你一次了，你太好了，我忍不住又来找你了。

‘Sit down, Fred, I’m ready to hear and do anything I can,’ said the Vicar, who was busy packing some small objects for removal, and went on with his work.
“坐下，弗雷德，我已经准备好倾听并尽我所能，”牧师说，他正忙着收拾一些小物品以便搬走，然后继续他的工作。

‘I wanted to tell you—‘ Fred hesitated an instant and then went on plungingly, ‘I might go into the Church now; and really, look where I may, I can’t see anything else to do. I don’t like it, but I know it’s uncommonly hard on my father to say so, after he has spent a good deal of money in educating me for it.’ Fred paused again an instant, and then repeated, ‘and I can’t see anything else to do.’
“我想告诉你——”弗雷德犹豫了一下，然后继续说道，“我现在可能会去教堂；但我现在可以去教堂。”真的，无论我在哪里，我都看不出还有什么可做的。我不喜欢这样，但我知道我的父亲很难说出这样的话，因为他花了很多钱来教育我。”弗雷德又停顿了一下，然后重复道，“我可以没有其他事情可做。

‘I did talk to your father about it, Fred, but I made little way with him. He said it was too late. But you have got over one bridge now: what are your other difficulties?’
“弗雷德，我确实和你父亲谈过这件事，但我和他没有取得什么进展。他说已经太晚了。但现在你已经跨过了一座桥：你还有什么困难？

‘Merely that I don’t like it. I don’t like divinity, and preaching, and feeling obliged to look serious. I like riding across country, and doing as other men do. I don’t mean that I want to be a bad fellow in any way; but I’ve no taste for the sort of thing people expect of a clergyman. And yet what else am I to do? My father can’t spare me any capital, else I might go into farming. And he has no room for me in his trade. And of course I can’t begin to study for law or physic now, when my father wants me to earn something. It’s all very well to say I’m wrong to go into the Church; but those who say so might as well tell me to go into the backwoods.’
‘只是我不喜欢而已。我不喜欢神性，不喜欢说教，也不喜欢必须显得严肃。我喜欢骑马穿越乡村，像其他人一样做事。我并不是说我想成为一个坏人；我只是想成为一个坏人。但我不喜欢人们对牧师的期望。但我还能做什么呢？我父亲不能给我任何资金，否则我可能会务农。他的行业里没有我的空间。当然，我现在不能开始学习法律或物理，因为我父亲希望我能挣点钱。说我去教堂是错误的，这很好。但那些这么说的人不妨告诉我到偏僻的树林里去。

Fred’s voice had taken a tone of grumbling remonstrance, and Mr. Farebrother might have been inclined to smile if his mind had not been too busy in imagining more than Fred told him.
弗雷德的声音带着抱怨和抗议的语气，如果费雷布拉泽先生的脑子不是太忙于想象弗雷德告诉他的事情的话，他可能会微笑。

‘Have you any difficulties about doctrines—about the Articles?’ he said, trying hard to think of the question simply for Fred’s sake.
“你对教义——关于章程有什么困难吗？”他说，只是为了弗雷德而努力思考这个问题。

‘No; I suppose the Articles are right. I am not prepared with any arguments to disprove them, and much better, cleverer fellows than I am go in for them entirely. I think it would be rather ridiculous in me to urge scruples of that sort, as if I were a judge,’ said Fred, quite simply.
'不;我认为文章是对的。我不准备用任何论据来反驳他们，而且比我更好、更聪明的人完全支持他们。我认为，如果我像法官一样提出这种顾虑，那就太可笑了。”弗雷德简单地说。

‘I suppose, then, it has occurred to you that you might be a fair parish priest without being much of a divine?’
“那么，我想你已经想到，你可能是一名公平的教区牧师，但并不是一个神人？”

‘Of course, if I am obliged to be a clergyman, I shall try and do my duty, though I mayn’t like it. Do you think any body ought to blame me?’
“当然，如果我有义务成为一名牧师，我会尽力履行我的职责，尽管我可能不喜欢它。你认为有人应该责怪我吗？

‘For going into the Church under the circumstances? That depends on your conscience, Fred—how far you have counted the cost, and seen what your position will require of you. I can only tell you about myself, that I have always been too lax, and have been uneasy in consequence.’
‘在这种情况下进入教堂？这取决于你的良心，弗雷德——你计算成本的程度，以及你的职位对你的要求。我只能告诉你我自己，我一直太松懈，结果一直不安。

‘But there is another hindrance,’ said Fred, coloring. ‘I did not tell you before, though perhaps I may have said things that made you guess it. There is somebody I am very fond of: I have loved her ever since we were children.’
“但是还有另一个障碍，”弗雷德红着脸说道。 “我之前没有告诉过你，尽管也许我说了一些让你猜到的事情。我有一个非常喜欢的人：我从小就爱她。

‘Miss Garth, I suppose?’ said the Vicar, examining some labels very closely.
“我想是加思小姐吧？”牧师一边说，一边仔细地检查着一些标签。

‘Yes. I shouldn’t mind anything if she would have me. And I know I could be a good fellow then.’
'是的。如果她愿意拥有我，我就不应该介意任何事情。我知道那时我可以成为一个好人。

‘And you think she returns the feeling?’
“你认为她也有同样的感觉吗？”

‘She never will say so; and a good while ago she made me promise not to speak to her about it again. And she has set her mind especially against my being a clergyman; I know that. But I can’t give her up. I do think she cares about me. I saw Mrs. Garth last night, and she said that Mary was staying at Lowick Rectory with Miss Farebrother.’
“她永远不会这么说；不久前，她让我保证不再和她谈论这件事。她特别反对我当牧师。我知道。但我不能放弃她。我确实认为她关心我。昨晚我见到了加斯太太，她说玛丽和费勒布拉泽小姐住在洛威克教区长官邸。

‘Yes, she is very kindly helping my sister. Do you wish to go there?’
“是的，她非常友善地帮助我妹妹。你想去那里吗？

‘No, I want to ask a great favor of you. I am ashamed to bother you in this way; but Mary might listen to what you said, if you mentioned the subject to her—I mean about my going into the Church.’
‘不，我想请你帮个大忙。我很惭愧这样打扰你；但玛丽可能会听你说的话，如果你向她提到这个话题——我的意思是关于我去教堂的事。

‘That is rather a delicate task, my dear Fred. I shall have to presuppose your attachment to her; and to enter on the subject as you wish me to do, will be asking her to tell me whether she returns it.’
“这是一项相当棘手的任务，亲爱的弗雷德。我必须预设你对她的依恋；并按照你希望我做的那样进入这个主题，将要求她告诉我她是否归还它。

‘That is what I want her to tell you,’ said Fred, bluntly. ‘I don’t know what to do, unless I can get at her feeling.’
“这就是我想让她告诉你的，”弗雷德直言不讳地说。 “我不知道该怎么办，除非我能理解她的感受。”

‘You mean that you would be guided by that as to your going into the Church?’
“你的意思是，你进入教堂时会遵循这一点？”

‘If Mary said she would never have me I might as well go wrong in one way as another.’
“如果玛丽说她永远不会拥有我，我可能会在这方面犯错误。”

‘That is nonsense, Fred. Men outlive their love, but they don’t outlive the consequences of their recklessness.’
“那是胡说八道，弗雷德。男人的爱情比他们的爱情更长久，但他们却无法比他们的鲁莽所带来的后果更长久。

‘Not my sort of love: I have never been without loving Mary. If I had to give her up, it would be like beginning to live on wooden legs.’
“这不是我的爱：我从来没有不爱过玛丽。如果我不得不放弃她，那就像开始靠木腿生活一样。

‘Will she not be hurt at my intrusion?’
“我的闯入她不会受伤吗？”

‘No, I feel sure she will not. She respects you more than any one, and she would not put you off with fun as she does me. Of course I could not have told any one else, or asked any one else to speak to her, but you. There is no one else who could be such a friend to both of us.’ Fred paused a moment, and then said, rather complainingly, ‘And she ought to acknowledge that I have worked in order to pass. She ought to believe that I would exert myself for her sake.’
“不，我确信她不会。她比任何人都更尊重你，她不会像对待我一样让你厌烦。当然，除了你之外，我不可能告诉任何人，或要求任何人与她说话。没有人能成为我们俩这样的朋友。”弗雷德停顿了一下，然后颇为抱怨地说，“她应该承认我为了通过考试而付出了努力。她应该相信我会为了她而努力。

There was a moment’s silence before Mr. Farebrother laid down his work, and putting out his hand to Fred said—
费雷布拉泽先生沉默了一会儿，放下手中的工作，向弗雷德伸出手说——

‘Very well, my boy. I will do what you wish.’
‘很好，我的孩子。我会做你想做的事。

That very day Mr. Farebrother went to Lowick parsonage on the nag which he had just set up. ‘Decidedly I am an old stalk,’ he thought, ‘the young growths are pushing me aside.’
就在那天，费勒布拉泽先生骑着他刚刚架设的马车去了洛威克牧师住宅。 “我确实是一根老茎，”他想，“新的生长物正在把我推到一边。”

He found Mary in the garden gathering roses and sprinkling the petals on a sheet. The sun was low, and tall trees sent their shadows across the grassy walks where Mary was moving without bonnet or parasol. She did not observe Mr. Farebrother’s approach along the grass, and had just stooped down to lecture a small black-and-tan terrier, which would persist in walking on the sheet and smelling at the rose-leaves as Mary sprinkled them. She took his fore-paws in one hand, and lifted up the forefinger of the other, while the dog wrinkled his brows and looked embarrassed. ‘Fly, Fly, I am ashamed of you,’ Mary was saying in a grave contralto. ‘This is not becoming in a sensible dog; anybody would think you were a silly young gentleman.’
他发现玛丽在花园里采摘玫瑰，并将花瓣洒在床单上。太阳很低，高大的树木把影子投在草地上的小路上，玛丽没有戴帽子，也没有遮阳伞。她没有注意到费雷布拉泽先生沿着草地走来，只是弯下腰教训一只黑褐色的小梗犬，它坚持在床单上行走，闻着玛丽撒的玫瑰花叶的味道。她一手握住他的前爪，另一只手举起食指，狗则皱着眉头，一脸尴尬。 “飞吧，飞吧，我为你感到羞耻。”玛丽用低沉的女低音说道。 “这对于一只明智的狗来说是不合时宜的；任何人都会认为你是一位愚蠢的年轻绅士。

‘You are unmerciful to young gentlemen, Miss Garth,’ said the Vicar, within two yards of her.
“加思小姐，你对年轻绅士很无情，”牧师在离她两码远的地方说道。

Mary started up and blushed. ‘It always answers to reason with Fly,’ she said, laughingly.
玛丽惊醒了，脸红了。 “它总是对弗莱有道理，”她笑着说。

‘But not with young gentlemen?’
“但不是和年轻的绅士们一起吗？”

‘Oh, with some, I suppose; since some of them turn into excellent men.’
“哦，我想有一些；因为他们中的一些人变成了优秀的男人。

‘I am glad of that admission, because I want at this very moment to interest you in a young gentleman.’
“我很高兴你承认这一点，因为此时此刻我想让你对一位年轻的绅士感兴趣。”

‘Not a silly one, I hope,’ said Mary, beginning to pluck the roses again, and feeling her heart beat uncomfortably.
“我希望这不是个傻事。”玛丽说着，又开始摘玫瑰，感觉自己的心跳得不舒服。

‘No; though perhaps wisdom is not his strong point, but rather affection and sincerity. However, wisdom lies more in those two qualities than people are apt to imagine. I hope you know by those marks what young gentleman I mean.’
'不;虽然也许智慧不是他的强项，但他的强项却是感情和真诚。然而，智慧更多地在于这两种品质，超出了人们的想象。我希望你能通过这些标记明白我所说的年轻绅士的意思。

‘Yes, I think I do,’ said Mary, bravely, her face getting more serious, and her hands cold; ‘it must be Fred Vincy.’
“是的，我想我是的。”玛丽勇敢地说，她的脸色变得更加严肃，双手冰冷。 “一定是弗雷德·文西。”

‘He has asked me to consult you about his going into the Church. I hope you will not think that I consented to take a liberty in promising to do so.’
“他让我向你咨询他进入教堂的事情。我希望你不要认为我同意冒昧地承诺这样做。

‘On the contrary, Mr. Farebrother,’ said Mary, giving up the roses, and folding her arms, but unable to look up, ‘whenever you have anything to say to me I feel honored.’
“恰恰相反，费雷布拉泽先生，”玛丽说着，放下了玫瑰，抱起双臂，但无法抬头，“只要你有什么话要对我说，我就感到很荣幸。”

‘But before I enter on that question, let me just touch a point on which your father took me into confidence; by the way, it was that very evening on which I once before fulfilled a mission from Fred, just after he had gone to college. Mr. Garth told me what happened on the night of Featherstone’s death—how you refused to burn the will; and he said that you had some heart-prickings on that subject, because you had been the innocent means of hindering Fred from getting his ten thousand pounds. I have kept that in mind, and I have heard something that may relieve you on that score— may show you that no sin-offering is demanded from you there.’.
“但在我进入这个问题之前，让我先谈谈你父亲向我透露的一点；顺便说一句，就在那天晚上，我曾经完成了弗雷德的一项任务，当时他刚刚上大学。加斯先生告诉我费瑟斯通去世当晚发生的事情——你如何拒绝烧掉遗嘱；他说你在这个问题上有些令人心痛，因为你是阻止弗雷德获得一万英镑的无辜手段。我已经记住了这一点，并且我听到了一些可能会让你在这一点上放心的事情——可能会告诉你那里不需要你献上赎罪祭。

Mr. Farebrother paused a moment and looked at Mary. He meant to give Fred his full advantage, but it would be well, he thought, to clear her mind of any superstitions, such as women sometimes follow when they do a man the wrong of marrying him as an act of atonement. Mary’s cheeks had begun to burn a little, and she was mute.
费勒布拉泽先生停顿了一下，看着玛丽。他本想给弗雷德充分的优势，但他想，最好还是让她清除掉任何迷信，比如当女人做错了男人的事时，有时会效仿，嫁给他作为赎罪的行为。玛丽的脸颊开始有点烧灼，她哑口无言。

‘I mean, that your action made no real difference to Fred’s lot. I find that the first will would not have been legally good after the burning of the last; it would not have stood if it had been disputed, and you may be sure it would have been disputed. So, on that score, you may feel your mind free.’
“我的意思是，你的行为对弗雷德的命运没有真正的影响。我发现，在最后一份遗嘱被烧毁后，第一份遗嘱在法律上就不再有效了。如果它受到争议，它就不会成立，而且你可以肯定它会受到争议。因此，从这一点来看，你可能会感到自己的思想自由了。”

‘Thank you, Mr. Farebrother,’ said Mary, earnestly. ‘I am grateful to you for remembering my feelings.’
“谢谢你，费雷布拉泽先生，”玛丽真诚地说。 “我很感激你还记得我的感受。”

‘Well, now I may go on. Fred, you know, has taken his degree. He has worked his way so far, and now the question is, what is he to do? That question is so difficult that he is inclined to follow his father’s wishes and enter the Church, though you know better than I do that he was quite set against that formerly. I have questioned him on the subject, and I confess I see no insuperable objection to his being a clergyman, as things go. He says that he could turn his mind to doing his best in that vocation, on one condition. If that condition were fulfilled I would do my utmost in helping Fred on. After a time—not, of course, at first— he might be with me as my curate, and he would have so much to do that his stipend would be nearly what I used to get as vicar. But I repeat that there is a condition without which all this good cannot come to pass. He has opened his heart to me, Miss Garth, and asked me to plead for him. The condition lies entirely in your feeling.’
‘好吧，现在我可以继续说下去了。弗雷德，你知道，已经获得了学位。到目前为止，他已经按照自己的方式努力了，现在的问题是，他该怎么办？这个问题是如此困难，以至于他倾向于遵循他父亲的意愿并进入教堂，尽管你比我更清楚他以前非常反对这样做。我曾就这个问题询问过他，而且我承认，从目前的情况来看，我并不认为他会成为一名牧师。他说，有一个条件，他可以集中精力在这项职业中尽力而为。如果这个条件得到满足，我会尽全力帮助弗雷德。一段时间后——当然不是一开始——他可能会作为我的助理牧师和我在一起，他会有很多事情要做，他的津贴几乎和我以前担任牧师时得到的一样。但我再说一遍，没有一个条件，所有这些美好的事情都无法实现。加思小姐，他向我敞开了心扉，并要求我为他求情。情况完全取决于你的感觉。

Mary looked so much moved, that he said after a moment, ‘Let us walk a little;’ and when they were walking he added, ‘To speak quite plainly, Fred will not take any course which would lessen the chance that you would consent to be his wife; but with that prospect, he will try his best at anything you approve.’
玛丽看起来很感动，过了一会儿，他说，“让我们走一会儿吧；”当他们走路时，他补充道，“说得直白一点，弗雷德不会采取任何会减少你同意的机会的做法。”成为他的妻子；但有了这个前景，他就会尽力做你认可的任何事情。”

‘I cannot possibly say that I will ever be his wife, Mr. Farebrother: but I certainly never will be his wife if he becomes a clergyman. What you say is most generous and kind; I don’t mean for a moment to correct your judgment. It is only that I have my girlish, mocking way of looking at things,’ said Mary, with a returning sparkle of playfulness in her answer which only made its modesty more charming.
“我不可能说我将永远成为他的妻子，费勒布拉泽先生：但如果他成为一名牧师，我当然永远不会成为他的妻子。你所说的话是最慷慨和善意的；我暂时无意纠正你的判断。只是我有一种少女般的、嘲讽的看待事物的方式。”玛丽说道，她的回答中又带着一丝俏皮的光芒，这让她的谦虚变得更加迷人。

‘He wishes me to report exactly what you think,’ said Mr. Farebrother.
“他希望我准确地报告你的想法，”费雷布拉泽先生说。

‘I could not love a man who is ridiculous,’ said Mary, not choosing to go deeper. ‘Fred has sense and knowledge enough to make him respectable, if he likes, in some good worldly business, but I can never imagine him preaching and exhorting, and pronouncing blessings, and praying by the sick, without feeling as if I were looking at a caricature. His being a clergyman would be only for gentility’s sake, and I think there is nothing more contemptible than such imbecile gentility. I used to think that of Mr. Crowse, with his empty face and neat umbrella, and mincing little speeches. What right have such men to represent Christianity—as if it were an institution for getting up idiots genteelly—as if—‘ Mary checked herself. She had been carried along as if she had been speaking to Fred instead of Mr. Farebrother.
“我不可能爱一个可笑的男人，”玛丽说道，但没有选择继续深入。 “弗雷德有足够的理智和知识，如果他愿意的话，可以在一些世俗的善行中使他受人尊敬，但我无法想象他在讲道、劝诫、宣布祝福、为病人祈祷时，感觉好像我在看着他。”一幅漫画。他当牧师只是为了文雅，我认为没有什么比这种低能的文雅更可鄙的了。我以前常常想到克劳斯先生，他面无表情，撑着整洁的雨伞，说话时总是拐弯抹角。这些人有什么权利代表基督教——就好像它是一个让白痴优雅起来的机构——就好像——”玛丽检查自己。她一路走来，就好像她是在跟弗雷德而不是费雷布拉泽先生说话。

‘Young women are severe: they don’t feel the stress of action as men do, though perhaps I ought to make you an exception there. But you don’t put Fred Vincy on so low a level as that?’
“年轻女性很严厉：她们不像男性那样感受到行动的压力，尽管也许我应该让你例外。但你不会把弗雷德·文西放在这么低的水平上吧？

‘No, indeed, he has plenty of sense, but I think he would not show it as a clergyman. He would be a piece of professional affectation.’
“不，确实，他很有理智，但我认为他不会以牧师的身份表现出来。他会是一个职业化的人。

‘Then the answer is quite decided. As a clergyman he could have no hope?’
‘那么答案就很确定了。作为一名牧师，他不可能没有希望吗？

Mary shook her head.
玛丽摇摇头。

‘But if he braved all the difficulties of getting his bread in some other way—will you give him the support of hope? May he count on winning you?’
“但是，如果他勇敢地面对所有困难，以其他方式获得面包——你会给他希望的支持吗？”他能指望赢得你吗？

‘I think Fred ought not to need telling again what I have already said to him,’ Mary answered, with a slight resentment in her manner. ‘I mean that he ought not to put such questions until he has done something worthy, instead of saying that he could do it.’
“我想弗雷德应该不需要再说一遍我已经对他说过的话了，”玛丽回答道，语气中带着一丝怨恨。 “我的意思是，在他做了一些有价值的事情之前，他不应该提出这样的问题，而不是说他能做到。”

Mr. Farebrother was silent for a minute or more, and then, as they turned and paused under the shadow of a maple at the end of a grassy walk, said, ‘I understand that you resist any attempt to fetter you, but either your feeling for Fred Vincy excludes your entertaining another attachment, or it does not: either he may count on your remaining single until he shall have earned your hand, or he may in any case be disappointed. Pardon me, Mary—you know I used to catechise you under that name—but when the state of a woman’s affections touches the happiness of another life—of more lives than one—I think it would be the nobler course for her to be perfectly direct and open.’
费雷布拉泽先生沉默了一分钟或更长时间，然后，当他们转身在一条草地步道尽头的一棵枫树树荫下停下来时，他说：“我知道你们抵制任何束缚你们的企图，但无论是你们的对弗雷德·文西的感情排除了你对另一种依恋的兴趣，或者事实并非如此：他要么指望你剩下的单身，直到他赢得你的芳心，要么他无论如何都可能会失望。请原谅我，玛丽——你知道我曾经用这个名字来教你问答——但是当一个女人的情感状态触及到另一种生活的幸福时——比一种生活更多的生活——我认为对她来说，完美地做到这一点将是更高尚的做法。直接且开放。

Mary in her turn was silent, wondering not at Mr. Farebrother’s manner but at his tone, which had a grave restrained emotion in it. When the strange idea flashed across her that his words had reference to himself, she was incredulous, and ashamed of entertaining it. She had never thought that any man could love her except Fred, who had espoused her with the umbrella ring, when she wore socks and little strapped shoes; still less that she could be of any importance to Mr. Farebrother, the cleverest man in her narrow circle. She had only time to feel that all this was hazy and perhaps illusory; but one thing was clear and determined—her answer.
玛丽也沉默了，她好奇的不是费雷布拉泽先生的态度，而是他的语气，语气里有一种严肃克制的情绪。当她突然想到他的话指的是他自己时，她感到难以置信，并且羞于接受这个想法。她从来没想过，除了弗雷德以外，还有哪个男人会爱她，当她穿着袜子和小系带鞋时，弗雷德就用伞环向她求婚了。更不用说她对费雷布拉泽先生有任何重要性了，费雷布拉泽先生是她这个小圈子里最聪明的人。她只来得及觉得这一切都是朦胧的，或许是虚幻的；但有一件事是明确而坚定的——她的回答。

‘Since you think it my duty, Mr. Farebrother, I will tell you that I have too strong a feeling for Fred to give him up for any one else. I should never be quite happy if I thought he was unhappy for the loss of me. It has taken such deep root in me— my gratitude to him for always loving me best, and minding so much if I hurt myself, from the time when we were very little. I cannot imagine any new feeling coming to make that weaker. I should like better than anything to see him worthy of every one’s respect. But please tell him I will not promise to marry him till then: I should shame and grieve my father and mother. He is free to choose some one else.’
“既然你认为这是我的责任，费雷布拉泽先生，我就告诉你，我对弗雷德的感情太强烈了，我不会为了任何人而放弃他。”如果我认为他因失去我而感到不高兴，我永远不会感到高兴。它已经在我心中深深扎根了——我感谢他从我们很小的时候起就一直爱着我，并且非常在意我是否伤害了自己。我无法想象任何新的感觉会让这种感觉变得更弱。我最希望看到他值得每个人的尊重。但请告诉他，在那之前我不会答应嫁给他：我会让我的父母感到羞耻和悲伤。他可以自由选择其他人。

‘Then I have fulfilled my commission thoroughly,’ said Mr. Farebrother, putting out his hand to Mary, ‘and I shall ride back to Middlemarch forthwith. With this prospect before him, we shall get Fred into the right niche somehow, and I hope I shall live to join your hands. God bless you!’
“那么，我已经彻底完成了我的使命，”法尔布拉泽先生向玛丽伸出手说道，“我将立即骑马返回米德尔马契。”有了这个前景，我们将以某种方式让弗雷德进入正确的位置，我希望我能活着与你们携手共进。上帝祝福你！'

‘Oh, please stay, and let me give you some tea,’ said Mary. Her eyes filled with tears, for something indefinable, something like the resolute suppression of a pain in Mr. Farebrother’s manner, made her feel suddenly miserable, as she had once felt when she saw her father’s hands trembling in a moment of trouble.
“噢，请留下来，我给你倒点茶，”玛丽说。她的眼里充满了泪水，因为某种无法形容的东西，比如费雷布拉泽先生坚决压抑痛苦的态度，让她突然感到痛苦，就像她曾经在看到父亲遇到麻烦时双手颤抖时的感觉一样。

‘No, my dear, no. I must get back.’
‘不，亲爱的，不。我必须回来。

In three minutes the Vicar was on horseback again, having gone magnanimously through a duty much harder than the renunciation of whist, or even than the writing of penitential meditations.
三分钟后，牧师再次骑在马背上，慷慨地完成了一项比放弃惠斯特、甚至比写忏悔冥想还要艰难得多的职责。

CHAPTER LIII
第十三章

It is but a shallow haste which concludeth insincerity from what outsiders call inconsistency—putting a dead mechanism of ‘ifs’ and ‘therefores’ for the living myriad of hidden suckers whereby the belief and the conduct are wrought into mutual sustainment.
这只是一种浅薄的仓促，从外人所说的不一致中得出不真诚的结论——为无数隐藏的活生生的傻瓜建立一个死的“如果”和“因此”机制，从而使信仰和行为相互维持。

Mr. Bulstrode, when he was hoping to acquire a new interest in Lowick, had naturally had an especial wish that the new clergyman should be one whom he thoroughly approved; and he believed it to be a chastisement and admonition directed to his own shortcomings and those of the nation at large, that just about the time when he came in possession of the deeds which made him the proprietor of Stone Court, Mr. Farebrother ‘read himself’ into the quaint little church and preached his first sermon to the congregation of farmers, laborers, and village artisans. It was not that Mr. Bulstrode intended to frequent Lowick Church or to reside at Stone Court for a good while to come: he had bought the excellent farm and fine homestead simply as a retreat which he might gradually enlarge as to the land and beautify as to the dwelling, until it should be conducive to the divine glory that he should enter on it as a residence, partially withdrawing from his present exertions in the administration of business, and throwing more conspicuously on the side of Gospel truth the weight of local landed proprietorship, which Providence might increase by unforeseen occasions of purchase. A strong leading in this direction seemed to have been given in the surprising facility of getting Stone Court, when every one had expected that Mr. Rigg Featherstone would have clung to it as the Garden of Eden. That was what poor old Peter himself had expected; having often, in imagination, looked up through the sods above him, and, unobstructed by. perspective, seen his frog-faced legatee enjoying the fine old place to the perpetual surprise and disappointment of other survivors.
布尔斯特罗德先生在希望对洛威克产生新的兴趣时，自然有一个特别的愿望，那就是新的牧师应该是他完全认可的一位。他认为这是对他自己和整个国家的缺点的惩罚和警告，就在他拥有使他成为斯通法院业主的行为时，费雷布拉泽先生“读到”他亲自走进这座古色古香的小教堂，向农民、工人和乡村工匠举行了第一次布道。布尔斯特罗德先生并不打算经常光顾洛伊克教堂或在斯通庭院居住一段时间：他购买了这片优秀的农场和精美的宅基地，只是为了作为一个隐居之所，他可以逐渐扩大土地并美化它。直到他将其作为住所进入这有利于神圣的荣耀为止，部分地退出他目前在商业管理方面的努力，并更加明显地把当地土地的重量投向福音真理的一边普罗维登斯可能会因不可预见的购买情况而增加所有权。在这个方向上，似乎有一个强有力的领先优势，那就是获得斯通庭院这一令人惊讶的便利，而每个人都预计里格·费瑟斯通先生会坚持把它当作伊甸园。这正是可怜的老彼得自己所期望的。他经常在想象中透过上方的草皮向上看，并且不受任何阻碍。从他的角度来看，他的青蛙脸继承人正在享受这个美好的老地方，这让其他幸存者永远感到惊讶和失望。

But how little we know what would make paradise for our neighbors! We judge from our own desires, and our neighbors themselves are not always open enough even to throw out a hint of theirs. The cool and judicious Joshua Rigg had not allowed his parent to perceive that Stone Court was anything less than the chief good in his estimation, and he had certainly wished to call it his own. But as Warren Hastings looked at gold and thought of buying Daylesford, so Joshua Rigg looked at Stone Court and thought of buying gold. He had a very distinct and intense vision of his chief good, the vigorous greed which he had inherited having taken a special form by dint of circumstance: and his chief good was to be a moneychanger. From his earliest employment as an errand-boy in a seaport, he had looked through the windows of the moneychangers as other boys look through the windows of the pastry-cooks; the fascination had wrought itself gradually into a deep special passion; he meant, when he had property, to do many things, one of them being to marry a genteel young person; but these were all accidents and joys that imagination could dispense with. The one joy after which his soul thirsted was to have a money-changer’s shop on a much-frequented quay, to have locks all round him of which he held the keys, and to look sublimely cool as he handled the breeding coins of all nations, while helpless Cupidity looked at him enviously from the other side of an iron lattice. The strength of that passion had been a power enabling him to master all the knowledge necessary to gratify it. And when others were thinking that he had settled at Stone Court for life, Joshua himself was thinking that the moment now was not far off when he should settle on the North Quay with the best appointments in safes and locks.
但我们对什么才能成为我们邻居的天堂却知之甚少！我们根据自己的愿望来判断，而我们的邻居本身并不总是足够开放，甚至不会抛出他们的暗示。冷静而明智的约书亚·里格（Joshua Rigg）不允许他的父母认为斯通庭院在他看来是最重要的，而且他当然希望将其称为自己的。但正如沃伦·黑斯廷斯 (Warren Hastings) 关注黄金并考虑购买戴尔斯福德 (Daylesford) 一样，约书亚·里格 (Joshua Rigg) 关注斯通考特 (Stone Court) 并考虑购买黄金。他对自己的主要利益有一个非常清晰而强烈的愿景，他继承了强烈的贪婪，这种贪婪由于环境而采取了特殊的形式：而他的主要利益就是成为一名货币兑换商。从他最早在海港当杂役起，他就透过货币兑换商的窗户往外看，就像其他男孩透过糕点师的窗户往外看一样。这种迷恋逐渐演变成一种深深的、特殊的激情。他打算等拥有财产后做很多事情，其中​​之一就是娶一位上流社会的年轻人为妻。但这些都是想象所无法消除的意外和欢乐。他的灵魂所渴求的唯一快乐就是在一个经常光顾的码头上开一家货币兑换店，他周围都有锁，他拿着钥匙，当他处理各国的繁殖硬币时，他看起来非常酷，而无助的丘比特却在铁格子的另一边羡慕地看着他。这种激情的力量使他能够掌握满足这种激情所需的所有知识。 当其他人认为他已经在斯通法院定居了一辈子时，约书亚自己却在想，现在已经不远了，他应该在北码头定居，并拥有最好的保险箱和锁。

Enough. We are concerned with looking at Joshua Rigg’s sale of his land from Mr. Bulstrode’s point of view, and he interpreted it as a cheering dispensation conveying perhaps a sanction to a purpose which he had for some time entertained without external encouragement; he interpreted it thus, but not too confidently, offering up his thanksgiving in guarded phraseology. His doubts did not arise from the possible relations of the event to Joshua Rigg’s destiny, which belonged to the unmapped regions not taken under the providential government, except perhaps in an imperfect colonial way; but they arose from reflecting that this dispensation too might be a chastisement for himself, as Mr. Farebrother’s induction to the living clearly was.
足够的。我们关心的是从布尔斯特罗德先生的角度来看待约书亚·里格出售他的土地的行为，他将其解释为一种令人振奋的特许权，这可能传达了对他在没有外部鼓励的情况下一段时间以来所考虑的目的的制裁；他这样解释，但不太自信，用谨慎的措辞表达了他的感恩。他的疑虑并非源于该事件与约书亚·里格的命运之间可能存在的关系，约书亚·里格的命运属于未在地图上绘制的地区，不属于上帝政府管辖的地区，除非是以不完美的殖民方式；但他们的反思是，这种安排也可能是对他自己的惩罚，正如费雷布拉泽先生对生者的引导显然就是这样。

This was not what Mr. Bulstrode said to any man for the sake of deceiving him: it was what he said to himself—it was as genuinely his mode of explaining events as any theory of yours may be, if you happen to disagree with him. For the egoism which enters into our theories does not affect their sincerity; rather, the more our egoism is satisfied, the more robust is our belief.
布尔斯特罗德先生不是为了欺骗他而对任何人说的：这是他对自己说的——如果你碰巧不同意他的观点，这就是他解释事件的真实方式，就像你的任何理论一样。 。因为利己主义进入我们的理论并不影响他们的真诚；相反，我们的利己主义越得到满足，我们的信念就越坚定。

However, whether for sanction or for chastisement, Mr. Bulstrode, hardly fifteen months after the death of Peter Featherstone, had become the proprietor of Stone Court, and what Peter would say ‘if he were worthy to know,’ had become an inexhaustible and consolatory subject of conversation to his disappointed relatives. The tables were now turned on that dear brother departed, and to contemplate the frustration of his cunning by the superior cunning of things in general was a cud of delight to Solomon. Mrs. Waule had a melancholy triumph in the proof that it did not answer to make false Featherstones and cut off the genuine; and Sister Martha receiving the news in the Chalky Flats said, ‘Dear, dear! then the Almighty could have been none so pleased with the almshouses after all.’
然而，无论是为了制裁还是为了惩罚，布尔斯特罗德先生在彼得·费瑟斯通去世后不到十五个月，就成为了斯通庭院的所有者，而彼得所说的“如果他值得知道的话”，已经成为取之不尽、用之不竭的话题。这是对他失望的亲戚的安慰话题。亲爱的兄弟离开后，形势发生了翻天覆地的变化，想到他的狡猾被一般事物的卓越狡猾所挫败，所罗门感到高兴。沃勒夫人在证明它不会制造假羽毛石并切断真品后，获得了忧郁的胜利。玛莎修女在白垩平原收到消息后说道：“亲爱的，亲爱的！那么万能的上帝对救济院根本不会那么满意。

Affectionate Mrs. Bulstrode was particularly glad of the advantage which her husband’s health was likely to get from the purchase of Stone Court. Few days passed without his riding thither and looking over some part of the farm with the bailiff, and the evenings were delicious in that quiet spot, when the new hay-ricks lately set up were sending forth odors to mingle with the breath of the rich old garden. One evening, while the sun was still above the horizon and burning in golden lamps among the great walnut boughs, Mr. Bulstrode was pausing on horseback outside the front gate waiting for Caleb Garth, who had met him by appointment to give an opinion on a question of stable drainage, and was now advising the bailiff in the rick-yard.
深情的布尔斯特罗德夫人特别高兴地看到，购买斯通庭院可能会给她丈夫的健康带来好处。几天过去了，他没有骑马去那里，和法警一起巡视农场的一些地方，在那个安静的地方，夜晚是美味的，新近搭建的干草堆散发出的气味与富人的呼吸混合在一起。老花园。一天晚上，当太阳还在地平线上方，金色的灯光在胡桃树大树枝间燃烧时，布尔斯特罗德先生在前门外骑着​​马，等待凯莱布·加斯，他按约与他会面，就一项计划发表意见。稳定排水系统的问题，现在正在向堆垛场的法警提供咨询。

Mr. Bulstrode was conscious of being in a good spiritual frame and more than usually serene, under the influence of his innocent recreation. He was doctrinally convinced that there was a total absence of merit in himself; but that doctrinal conviction may be held without pain when the sense of demerit does not take a distinct shape in memory and revive the tingling of shame or the pang of remorse. Nay, it may be held with intense satisfaction when the depth of our sinning is but a measure for the depth of forgiveness, and a clenching proof that we are peculiar instruments of the divine intention. The memory has as many moods as the temper, and shifts its scenery like a diorama. At this moment Mr. Bulstrode felt as if the sunshine were all one with that of far-off evenings when he was a very young man and used to go out preaching beyond Highbury. And he would willingly have had that service of exhortation in prospect now. The texts were there still, and so was his own facility in expounding them. His brief reverie was interrupted by the return of Caleb Garth, who also was on horseback, and was just shaking his bridle before starting, when he exclaimed—
布尔斯特罗德先生意识到，在他天真无邪的娱乐活动的影响下，他的精神状态良好，比平时更加​​平静。他在教义上坚信自己完全没有优点。但是，当过错感没有在记忆中形成明显的形状并重新唤起羞耻的刺痛或悔恨的痛苦时，这种教义信念就可以毫无痛苦地坚持下去。不仅如此，当我们犯罪的深度只是宽恕深度的衡量标准，以及我们是神圣意图的特殊工具的有力证据时，我们可能会感到非常满意。记忆和脾气一样有多种情绪，并且像立体模型一样变换着风景。此时此刻，布尔斯特罗德先生感觉阳光与遥远夜晚的阳光融为一体，当时他还是一个非常年轻的人，经常到海布里以外的地方传教。他现在很乐意接受这种劝诫服务。文本仍然在那里，他自己解释它们的能力也在那里。他短暂的沉思被凯莱布·加斯的回来打断了，他也骑在马背上，在出发前摇晃缰绳，这时他惊呼道——

‘Bless my heart! what’s this fellow in black coming along the lane? He’s like one of those men one sees about after the races.’
‘保佑我的心！沿着小巷走来的这个黑衣人是什么？他就像赛后看到的那些人之一。

Mr. Bulstrode turned his horse and looked along the lane, but made no reply. The comer was our slight acquaintance Mr. Raffles, whose appearance presented no other change than such as was due to a suit of black and a crape hat-band. He was within three yards of the horseman now, and they could see the flash of recognition in his face as he whirled his stick upward, looking all the while at Mr. Bulstrode, and at last exclaiming:—
布尔斯特罗德先生调转马头，沿着小巷望去，但没有回答。来者是我们的熟人莱佛士先生，他的外貌没有什么变化，只不过是穿着一身黑西装，戴着一条黑纱帽带。现在他距离骑手不到三码了，当他向上旋转棍子时，他们可以看到他脸上闪现出认出他的神情，他一直看着布尔斯特罗德先生，最后喊道：

‘By Jove, Nick, it’s you! I couldn’t be mistaken, though the five-and-twenty years have played old Boguy with us both! How are you, eh? you didn’t expect to see ME here. Come, shake us by the hand.’ To say that Mr. Raffles’ manner was rather excited would be only one mode of saying that it was evening. Caleb Garth could see that there was a moment of struggle and hesitation in Mr. Bulstrode, but it ended in his putting out his hand coldly to Raffles and saying—
天哪，尼克，是你！我不会弄错的，尽管五年二十年来我们俩一直在玩老博吉！你怎么样，嗯？你没想到会在这里见到我。来，握一下我们的手。”说莱佛士先生的态度相当兴奋只是说现在是晚上的一种方式。凯莱布·加思看得出来，布尔斯特罗德先生有那么一刻的挣扎和犹豫，但最终他冷冷地向莱佛士伸出了手，说道——

‘I did not indeed expect to see you in this remote country place.’
“我确实没想到会在这个偏远的乡村见到你。”

‘Well, it belongs to a stepson of mine,’ said Raffles, adjusting himself in a swaggering attitude. ‘I came to see him here before. I’m not so surprised at seeing you, old fellow, because I picked up a letter— what you may call a providential thing. It’s uncommonly fortunate I met you, though; for I don’t care about seeing my stepson: he’s not affectionate, and his poor mother’s gone now. To tell the truth, I came out of love to you, Nick: I came to get your address, for—look here!’ Raffles drew a crumpled paper from his pocket.
“嗯，它属于我的一个继子。”莱佛士一边说，一边摆出一副大摇大摆的样子。 ‘我以前来过这里看他。老伙计，见到你我并不感到惊讶，因为我收到了一封信——你可以称之为天意。不过，能遇见你真是太幸运了；因为我不在乎见到我的继子：他没有感情，而且他可怜的母亲现在已经去世了。说实话，我是出于对你的爱而来的，尼克：我来是为了得到你的地址，因为——看这里！”莱佛士从口袋里掏出一张皱巴巴的纸。

Almost any other man than Caleb Garth might have been tempted to linger on the spot for the sake of hearing all he could about a man whose acquaintance with Bulstrode seemed to imply passages in the banker’s life so unlike anything that was known of him in Middlemarch that they must have the nature of a secret to pique curiosity. But Caleb was peculiar: certain human tendencies which are commonly strong were almost absent from his mind; and one of these was curiosity about personal affairs. Especially if there was anything discreditable to be found out concerning another man, Caleb preferred not to know it; and if he had to tell anybody under him that his evil doings were discovered, he was more embarrassed than the culprit. He now spurred his horse, and saying, ‘I wish you good evening, Mr. Bulstrode; I must be getting home,’ set off at a trot.
除了凯莱布·加斯之外，几乎任何其他人都可能会忍不住在现场逗留，以便听听关于这个人的一切信息，他与布尔斯特罗德的相识似乎暗示了这位银行家生活中的一段经历，与人们在米德尔马契所知道的任何事情都截然不同，以至于他们必须具有秘密性质才能激起好奇心。但迦勒很奇怪：他的头脑中几乎不存在某些普遍强烈的人类倾向；其中之一就是对个人事务的好奇。尤其是如果发现了关于另一个人的任何不光彩的事情，迦勒宁愿不知道。如果他必须告诉他手下的任何人他的恶行被发现了，他比罪魁祸首还尴尬。他随即策马说道：“布尔斯特罗德先生，祝您晚安。”我一定要回家了。”小跑着出发。

‘You didn’t put your full address to this letter,’ Raffles continued. ‘That was not like the first-rate man of business you used to be. ‘The Shrubs,’—they may be anywhere: you live near at hand, eh?— have cut the London concern altogether—perhaps turned country squire— have a rural mansion to invite me to. Lord, how many years it is ago! The old lady must have been dead a pretty long while—gone to glory without the pain of knowing how poor her daughter was, eh? But, by Jove! you’re very pale and pasty, Nick. Come, if you’re going home, I’ll walk by your side.’
“你没有在这封信中写下你的完整地址，”莱佛士继续说道。 ‘这不像你以前是一流的商人。 “灌木丛”——他们可能在任何地方：你就住在附近，是吧？——已经完全不再关心伦敦了——也许变成了乡村乡绅——有一座乡村宅邸邀请我去。主啊，这已经是多少年前的事了！这位老太太一定已经死了很长一段时间了——已经走向辉煌，却没有痛苦地知道她的女儿有多穷，是吗？但是，天哪！尼克，你脸色苍白，脸色苍白。来吧，如果你要回家，我会陪着你走。”

Mr. Bulstrode’s usual paleness had in fact taken an almost deathly hue. Five minutes before, the expanse of his life had been submerged in its evening sunshine which shone backward to its remembered morning: sin seemed to be a question of doctrine and inward penitence, humiliation an exercise of the closet, the bearing of his deeds a matter of private vision adjusted solely by spiritual relations and conceptions of the divine purposes. And now, as if by some hideous magic, this loud red figure had risen before him in unmanageable solidity— an incorporate past which had not entered into his imagination of chastisements. But Mr. Bulstrode’s thought was busy, and he was not a man to act or speak rashly.
布尔斯特罗德先生平常的苍白实际上变成了一种几乎死气沉沉的色调。五分钟前，他的生活已经淹没在傍晚的阳光下，阳光照耀着记忆中的早晨：罪恶似乎是教义和内心忏悔的问题，羞辱是秘密的行使，他的行为举止是一个问题私人视野仅由精神关系和神圣目的的概念来调整。而现在，仿佛施了某种可怕的魔法，这个响亮的红色身影在他面前以难以控制的坚固程度升起——这是一段没有进入他对惩罚想象的整合的过去。但布尔斯特罗德先生的思想很忙碌，他不是一个轻举妄动的人。

‘I was going home,’ he said, ‘but I can defer my ride a little. And you can, if you please, rest here.’
“我正要回家，”他说，“但我可以稍微推迟一下行程。”如果你愿意的话，你可以在这里休息。

‘Thank you,’ said Raffles, making a grimace. ‘I don’t care now about seeing my stepson. I’d rather go home with you.’
“谢谢你，”莱佛士说，做了个鬼脸。 “我现在不在乎见到我的继子。我宁愿和你一起回家。

‘Your stepson, if Mr. Rigg Featherstone was he, is here no longer. I am master here now.’
“你的继子，如果里格·费瑟斯通先生是他的话，已经不在这里了。”我现在是这里的主人了。

Raffles opened wide eyes, and gave a long whistle of surprise, before he said, ‘Well then, I’ve no objection. I’ve had enough walking from the coach-road. I never was much of a walker, or rider either. What I like is a smart vehicle and a spirited cob. I was always a little heavy in the saddle. What a pleasant surprise it must be to you to see me, old fellow!’ he continued, as they turned towards the house. ‘You don’t say so; but you never took your luck heartily— you were always thinking of improving the occasion—you’d such a gift for improving your luck.’
莱佛士睁大了眼睛，惊讶地长长地吹了一声口哨，说道：“那么，我不反对。”我已经受够了从马路上走来的路。我从来都不是一个步行者，也不是骑手。我喜欢的是一辆聪明的汽车和一只充满活力的玉米棒子。我的马鞍总是有点重。老伙计，你见到我一定会感到多么惊喜！”当他们转向房子时，他继续说道。 ‘你不这么说；但你从来没有真心实意地对待你的运气——你总是想着改善这个场合——你真是一个改善运气的天赋。

Mr. Raffles seemed greatly to enjoy his own wit, and Swung his leg in a swaggering manner which was rather too much for his companion’s judicious patience.
莱佛士先生似乎非常享受自己的机智，大摇大摆地摆动着腿，这对他的同伴明智的耐心来说实在是太难以承受了。

‘If I remember rightly,’ Mr. Bulstrode observed, with chill anger, ‘our acquaintance many years ago had not the sort of intimacy which you are now assuming, Mr. Raffles. Any services you desire of me will be the more readily rendered if you will avoid a tone of familiarity which did not lie in our former intercourse, and can hardly be warranted by more than twenty years of separation.’
“如果我没记错的话，”布尔斯特罗德先生冷冷地说道，“我们多年前的熟人并不像你现在所认为的那样亲密，莱佛士先生。”如果你能避免我们以前的交往中不存在的熟悉的语气，并且在二十多年的分离中很难保证，你希望我提供的任何服务都会更容易实现。

‘You don’t like being called Nick? Why, I always called you Nick in my heart, and though lost to sight, to memory dear. By Jove! my feelings have ripened for you like fine old cognac. I hope you’ve got some in the house now. Josh filled my flask well the last time.’
“你不喜欢被称为尼克？”哎呀，我心里一直叫你尼克，虽然看不见了，但记忆里亲爱的。天哪！我对你的感情已经成熟，就像上等的陈年白兰地一样。我希望你现在家里有一些。乔希上次给我的烧瓶装满了。”

Mr. Bulstrode had not yet fully learned that even the desire for cognac was not stronger in Raffles than the desire to torment, and that a hint of annoyance always served him as a fresh cue. But it was at least clear that further objection was useless, and Mr. Bulstrode, in giving orders to the housekeeper for the accommodation of the guest, had a resolute air of quietude.
布尔斯特罗德先生还没有完全明白，莱佛士对干邑白兰地的渴望并不比折磨人的欲望更强烈，而且一丝恼怒总是给他带来新鲜的暗示。但至少可以清楚的是，进一步的反对是没有用的，布尔斯特罗德先生在向管家下令安排客人住宿时，表现出一种坚决的安静态度。

There was the comfort of thinking that this housekeeper had been in the service of Rigg also, and might accept the idea that Mr. Bulstrode entertained Raffles merely as a friend of her former master.
想到这位管家也曾为里格服务，并且可能会接受布尔斯特罗德先生仅仅将莱佛士当作她前任主人的朋友来招待莱佛士的想法，这让人感到安慰。

When there was food and drink spread before his visitor in the wainscoted parlor, and no witness in the room, Mr. Bulstrode said—
当壁板客厅里的食物和饮料摆在来访者面前，房间里没有目击者时，布尔斯特罗德先生说——

‘Your habits and mine are so different, Mr. Raffles, that we can hardly enjoy each other’s society. The wisest plan for both of us will therefore be to part as soon as possible. Since you say that you wished to meet me, you probably considered that you had some business to transact with me. But under the circumstances I will invite you to remain here for the night, and I will myself ride over here early to-morrow morning—before breakfast, in fact, when I can receive any Communication you have to make to me.’
“莱佛士先生，你的习惯和我的习惯如此不同，我们很难享受彼此的交往。因此，对我们双方来说，最明智的计划就是尽快分手。你既然说想见我，大概是觉得和我有事要办吧。但在这种情况下，我会邀请你留在这里过夜，明天一早我会亲自骑车来这里——事实上，在早餐之前，那时我可以收到你必须向我发出的任何通讯。

‘With all my heart,’ said Raffles; ‘this is a comfortable place— a little dull for a continuance; but I can put up with it for a night, with this good liquor and the prospect of seeing you again in the morning. You’re a much better host than my stepson was; but Josh owed me a bit of a grudge for marrying his mother; and between you and me there was never anything but kindness.’
“我全心全意，”莱佛士说。 “这是一个舒适的地方——持续下去有点沉闷；但我可以忍受一晚，有这杯好酒，还有明天早上再次见到你的希望。你是一个比我继子更好的主人；但乔希因为娶了他的母亲而欠我一点怨恨。你和我之间除了善意之外什么都没有。

Mr. Bulstrode, hoping that the peculiar mixture of joviality and sneering in Raffles’ manner was a good deal the effect of drink, had determined to wait till he was quite sober before he spent more words upon him. But he rode home with a terribly lucid vision of the difficulty there would be in arranging any result that could be permanently counted on with this man. It was inevitable that he should wish to get rid of John Raffles, though his reappearance could not be regarded as lying outside the divine plan. The spirit of evil might have sent him to threaten Mr. Bulstrode’s subversion as an instrument of good; but the threat must have been permitted, and was a chastisement of a new kind. It was an hour of anguish for him very different from the hours in which his struggle had been securely private, and which had ended with a sense that his secret misdeeds were pardoned and his services accepted. Those misdeeds even when committed—had they not been half sanctified by the singleness of his desire to devote himself and all he possessed to the furtherance of the divine scheme? And was he after all to become a mere stone of stumbling and a rock of offence? For who would understand the work within him? Who would not, when there was the pretext of casting disgrace upon him, confound his whole life and the truths he had espoused, in one heap of obloquy?
布尔斯特罗德先生希望莱佛士的举止中那种混合着快乐和嘲笑的奇特态度很大程度上是醉酒的结果，因此决定等他完全清醒后再对他多说几句。但他骑着马回家时，非常清楚地意识到，要在这个人身上安排出任何可以永久指望的结果将是多么困难。他不可避免地希望除掉约翰·莱佛士，尽管他的再次出现不能被认为是在神圣计划之外。邪恶之灵可能派他去威胁布尔斯特罗德先生的颠覆，以此作为善良的工具；但这种威胁一定是被允许的，而且是一种新的惩罚。对他来说，这是一个痛苦的时刻，与他的斗争安全保密的时刻截然不同，在这段时间里，他感到自己的秘密罪行被宽恕了，他的服务被接受了。这些恶行即使在发生时——难道不是因为他一心一意地致力于将自己和他所拥有的一切都奉献给神圣计划的推进而被神圣化了吗？他终究会成为绊脚石和冒犯人吗？谁能理解他里面的工作呢？当有人以羞辱他为借口时，谁不会将他的一生和他所信奉的真理混为一谈呢？

In his closest meditations the life-long habit of Mr. Bulstrode’s mind clad his most egoistic terrors in doctrinal references to superhuman ends. But even while we are talking and meditating about the earth’s orbit and the solar system, what we feel and adjust our movements to is the stable earth and the changing day. And now within all the automatic succession of theoretic phrases— distinct and inmost as the shiver and the ache of oncoming fever when we are discussing abstract pain, was the forecast of disgrace in the presence of his neighbors and of his own wife. For the pain, as well as the public estimate of disgrace, depends on the amount of previous profession. To men who only aim at escaping felony, nothing short of the prisoner’s dock is disgrace. But Mr. Bulstrode had aimed at being an eminent Christian.
在布尔斯特罗德先生最亲密的沉思中，他终生的习惯将他最自私的恐惧包裹在对超人目的的教义参考中。但即使我们在谈论和思考地球轨道和太阳系时，我们感受到并调整我们的运动的却是稳定的地球和变化的日子。现在，在所有自动连续的理论短语中——就像我们在讨论抽象疼痛时的颤抖和即将到来的发烧的疼痛一样明显和最内在，是对他的邻居和他自己的妻子面前的耻辱的预测。对于痛苦，以及公众对耻辱的估计，取决于以前职业的多少。对于那些只想逃避重罪的人来说，除了囚犯的被告席之外，没有什么是耻辱的。但布尔斯特罗德先生的目标是成为一名杰出的基督徒。

It was not more than half-past seven in the morning when he again reached Stone Court. The fine old place never looked more like a delightful home than at that moment; the great white lilies were in flower, the nasturtiums, their pretty leaves all silvered with dew, were running away over the low stone wall; the very noises all around had a heart of peace within them. But everything was spoiled for the owner as he walked on the gravel in front and awaited the descent of Mr. Raffles, with whom he was condemned to breakfast.
再次到达石苑的时候，时间还不到早上七点半。此刻，这个美丽的老地方看起来不像是一个令人愉快的家。白色的大百合正在盛开，旱金莲美丽的叶子沾满了露水，从低矮的石墙上流淌而过。周围的喧闹声中蕴藏着一颗平静的心。但当主人走在前面的碎石路上等待莱佛士先生降临时，他的一切都被破坏了，他被迫与莱佛士先生一起吃早餐。

It was not long before they were seated together in the wainscoted parlor over their tea and toast, which was as much as Raffles cared to take at that early hour. The difference between his morning and evening self was not so great as his companion had imagined that it might be; the delight in tormenting was perhaps even the stronger because his spirits were rather less highly pitched. Certainly his manners seemed more disagreeable by the morning light.
没过多久，他们就一起坐在壁板客厅里，喝着茶，吃着烤面包，这正是莱佛士在这么早的时候最想喝的。他早上和晚上之间的差异并不像他的同伴想象的那么大；因为他的精神不那么高度亢奋，所以折磨的乐趣也许更强烈。当然，在晨光的照射下，他的举止显得更加令人不快。

‘As I have little time to spare, Mr. Raffles,’ said the banker, who could hardly do more than sip his tea and break his toast without eating it, ‘I shall be obliged if you will mention at once the ground on which you wished to meet with me. I presume that you have a home elsewhere and will be glad to return to it.’
“莱佛士先生，我的空闲时间不多了，”银行家说道，他只能喝着茶，掰开吐司而不吃它，“如果您能立即提及这样做的依据，我将不胜感激。”你想见见我。我想你在别处有一个家，并且很高兴回到那里。”

‘Why, if a man has got any heart, doesn’t he want to see an old friend, Nick?—I must call you Nick—we always did call you young Nick when we knew you meant to marry the old widow. Some said you had a handsome family likeness to old Nick, but that was your mother’s fault, calling you Nicholas. Aren’t you glad to see me again? I expected an invite to stay with you at some pretty place. My own establishment is broken up now my wife’s dead. I’ve no particular attachment to any spot; I would as soon settle hereabout as anywhere.’
“为什么，如果一个人有心，他不想见见老朋友吗，尼克？——我必须叫你尼克——当我们知道你打算娶那个老寡妇时，我们总是叫你年轻的尼克。”有人说你长得很像老尼克，但那是你母亲的错，叫你尼古拉斯。你不高兴再次见到我吗？我期待着能受邀和你一起住在某个漂亮的地方。现在我妻子去世了，我自己的事业已经解散了。我对任何地方都没有特别的依恋；我宁愿在这里定居，也不想在任何地方定居。

‘May I ask why you returned from America? I considered that the strong wish you expressed to go there, when an adequate sum was furnished, was tantamount to an engagement that you would remain there for life.’
‘请问你为什么从美国回来？我认为，如果您表达了去那里的强烈愿望，只要提供了足够的资金，就等于您将终身留在那里。

‘Never knew that a wish to go to a place was the same thing as a wish to stay. But I did stay a matter of ten years; it didn’t suit me to stay any longer. And I’m not going again, Nick.’ Here Mr. Raffles winked slowly as he looked at Mr. Bulstrode.
“从来不知道想去一个地方的愿望和留下来的愿望是一样的。但我确实呆了十年；我不适合再呆下去了。我不会再去了，尼克。”这时，莱佛士先生看着布尔斯特罗德先生，慢慢地眨了眨眼。

‘Do you wish to be settled in any business? What is your calling now?’
‘你想在任何行业安顿下来吗？你现在打电话做什么？

‘Thank you, my calling is to enjoy myself as much as I can. I don’t care about working any more. If I did anything it would be a little travelling in the tobacco line—or something of that sort, which takes a man into agreeable company. But not without an independence to fall back upon. That’s what I want: I’m not so strong as I was, Nick, though I’ve got more color than you. I want an independence.’
“谢谢你，我的使命是尽可能地享受自己。我不再关心工作了。如果我做了什么，那就是在烟草行里走一走——或者类似的事情，这能让一个人成为一个令人愉快的伙伴。但并非没有独立性可以依靠。这就是我想要的：我不像以前那么坚强，尼克，尽管我比你有更多的色彩。我想要独立。

‘That could be supplied to you, if you would engage to keep at a distance,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, perhaps with a little too much eagerness in his undertone.
“如果你愿意保持一定的距离，那可以提供给你。”布尔斯特罗德先生说道，他的语气中或许有些过于急切。

‘That must be as it suits my convenience,’ said Raffles coolly. ‘I see no reason why I shouldn’t make a few acquaintances hereabout. I’m not ashamed of myself as company for anybody. I dropped my portmanteau at the turnpike when I got down—change of linen—genuine—honor bright— more than fronts and wristbands; and with this suit of mourning, straps and everything, I should do you credit among the nobs here.’ Mr. Raffles had pushed away hit chair and looked down at himself, particularly at his straps His chief intention was to annoy Bulstrode, but he really thought that his appearance now would produce a good effect, and that he was not only handsome and witty, but clad in a mourning style which implied solid connections.
“那肯定是为了方便我。”莱佛士冷冷地说。 “我认为我没有理由不在这里结交一些朋友。作为任何人的陪伴，我并不感到羞耻。当我下车时，我把我的手提包落在了收费公路上——换了亚麻布——真正的——光荣的——不仅仅是前衣和腕带；莱佛士先生推开椅子，低头看着自己，特别是他的肩带。他的主要目的是惹恼布尔斯特罗德，但他真以为他现在的出现，会产生不错的效果，不但英俊俏皮，而且一身丧服，蕴含着深厚的人脉。

‘If you intend to rely on me in any way, Mr. Raffles,’ said Bulstrode, after a moment’s pause, ‘you will expect to meet my wishes.’
“莱佛士先生，如果您打算以任何方式依赖我，”布尔斯特罗德停顿片刻后说道，“您就会期望能够满足我的愿望。”

‘Ah, to be sure,’ said Raffles, with a mocking cordiality. ‘Didn’t I always do it? Lord, you made a pretty thing out of me, and I got but little. I’ve often thought since, I might have done better by telling the old woman that I’d found her daughter and her grandchild: it would have suited my feelings better; I’ve got a soft place in my heart. But you’ve buried the old lady by this time, I suppose—it’s all one to her now. And you’ve got your fortune out of that profitable business which had such a blessing on it. You’ve taken to being a nob, buying land, being a country bashaw. Still in the Dissenting line, eh? Still godly? Or taken to the Church as more genteel?’
“啊，当然，”莱佛士带着嘲讽的热情说道。 ‘我不是一直都这么做吗？主啊，你使我成为了一件美好的事，而我却得到的却很少。从那时起，我经常想，如果我告诉老妇人我找到了她的女儿和她的孙子，我可能会做得更好：这会更符合我的感受；我心里有一个柔软的地方。但我想你这个时候已经埋葬了老太太——现在对她来说一切都是一样的了。你已经从那项有如此祝福的有利可图的业务中获得了财富。你已经习惯了成为一个贵族，购买土地，成为一个乡村巴绍。还在异议队列中，是吗？还敬神吗？还是去教堂显得更有教养？

This time Mr. Raffles’ slow wink and slight protrusion of his tongue was worse than a nightmare, because it held the certitude that it was not a nightmare, but a waking misery. Mr. Bulstrode felt a shuddering nausea, and did not speak, but was considering diligently whether he should not leave Raffles to do as he would, and simply defy him as a slanderer. The man would soon show himself disreputable enough to make people disbelieve him. ‘But not when he tells any ugly-looking truth about YOU,’ said discerning consciousness. And again: it seemed no wrong to keep Raffles at a distance, but Mr. Bulstrode shrank from the direct falsehood of denying true statements. It was one thing to look back on forgiven sins, nay, to explain questionable conformity to lax customs, and another to enter deliberately on the necessity of falsehood.
这一次，莱佛士先生缓慢地眨了眨眼，微微伸出了舌头，这比一场噩梦还要糟糕，因为它让人确信这不是一场噩梦，而是一场醒着的痛苦。布尔斯特罗德先生感到一阵恶心，没有说话，而是认真地考虑着是否应该让莱佛士按他的意愿行事，而只是蔑视他为诽谤者。这个人很快就会表现出自己的声名狼藉，足以让人们不相信他。 “但当他说出任何关于你的丑陋真相时，就不会了。”敏锐的意识说道。再说一遍：与莱佛士保持距离似乎没有错，但布尔斯特罗德先生却不敢直接否认真实陈述。回顾被宽恕的罪孽是一回事，不，解释对宽松习俗的可疑遵守是一回事，而故意进入谎言的必要性又是另一回事。

But since Bulstrode did not speak, Raffles ran on, by way of using time to the utmost.
但由于布尔斯特罗德没有说话，莱佛士就继续奔跑，最大限度地利用时间。

‘I’ve not had such fine luck as you, by Jove! Things went confoundedly with me in New York; those Yankees are cool hands, and a man of gentlemanly feelings has no chance with them. I married when I came back—a nice woman in the tobacco trade—very fond of me— but the trade was restricted, as we say. She had been settled there a good many years by a friend; but there was a son too much in the case. Josh and I never hit it off. However, I made the most of the position, and I’ve always taken my glass in good company. It’s been all on the square with me; I’m as open as the day. You won’t take it ill of me that I didn’t look you up before. I’ve got a complaint that makes me a little dilatory. I thought you were trading and praying away in London still, and didn’t find you there. But you see I was sent to you, Nick—perhaps for a blessing to both of us.’
“天哪，我没有你那么好运气！”我在纽约的情况很混乱。那些北方佬的手很凉，有绅士风度的人跟他们是没有机会的。我回来后就结婚了——烟草行业的一个好女人——非常喜欢我——但正如我们所说，烟草行业受到限制。她的一位朋友在那里定居了很多年。但这个案子里有一个儿子太多了。乔什和我从来没有合得来。然而，我充分利用了这个位置，而且我总是在良好的陪伴下拿起我的杯子。一切都与我同在；我和白天一样开放。你不会因为我之前没有查过你而怪我的。我有一个抱怨让我有点拖延。我以为你还在伦敦做生意和祈祷，但并没有发现你在那里。但你看，我被派去见你，尼克——也许是为了给我们俩带来祝福。”

Mr. Raffles ended with a jocose snuffle: no man felt his intellect more superior to religious cant. And if the cunning which calculates on the meanest feelings in men could be, called intellect, he had his share, for under the blurting rallying tone with which he spoke to Bulstrode, there was an evident selection of statements, as if they had been so many moves at chess. Meanwhile Bulstrode had determined on his move, and he said, with gathered resolution—
莱佛士先生以一种诙谐的鼻息声结束了演讲：没有人觉得自己的才智比宗教的行话更优越。如果算计人类最卑鄙感情的狡猾可以称为智力，那么他也有自己的一份，因为在他对布尔斯特罗德说话的脱口而出的团结语气下，有一个明显的陈述选择，就好像它们是如此国际象棋的许多动作。与此同时，布尔斯特罗德已经决定了他的行动，他坚定地说——

‘You will do well to reflect, Mr. Raffles, that it is possible for a man to overreach himself in the effort to secure undue advantage. Although I am not in any way bound to you, I am willing to supply you with a regular annuity—in quarterly payments—so long as you fulfil a promise to remain at a distance from this neighborhood. It is in your power to choose. If you insist on remaining here, even for a short time, you will get nothing from me. I shall decline to know you.’
“莱佛士先生，你最好反思一下，一个人为了获得不正当的优势而可能会超越自己。虽然我对你没有任何约束力，但我愿意向你提供定期年金——按季度支付——只要你履行与这个社区保持距离的承诺。你有选择的权力。如果你坚持留在这里，哪怕只是短暂的一段时间，你也不会从我这里得到什么。我会拒绝认识你。

‘Ha, ha!’ said Raffles, with an affected explosion, ‘that reminds me of a droll dog of a thief who declined to know the constable.’
“哈哈哈！”莱佛士假装爆炸地说，“这让我想起了一个拒绝认识警察的小偷的滑稽狗。”

‘Your allusions are lost on me sir,’ said Bulstrode, with white heat; ‘the law has no hold on me either through your agency or any other.’
“先生，我听不懂你的暗示。”布尔斯特罗德怒气冲冲地说。 “法律对我没有任何约束力，无论是通过你的机构还是任何其他机构。”

‘You can’t understand a joke, my good fellow. I only meant that I should never decline to know you. But let us be serious. Your quarterly payment won’t quite suit me. I like my freedom.’
“你听不懂笑话，我的好朋友。我只是想说我永远不应该拒绝认识你。但让我们严肃一点。你们的季度付款不太适合我。我喜欢我的自由。

Here Raffles rose and stalked once or twice up and down the room, swinging his leg, and assuming an air of masterly meditation. At last he stopped opposite Bulstrode, and said, ‘I’ll tell you what! Give us a couple of hundreds—come, that’s modest— and I’ll go away—honor bright!—pick up my portmanteau and go away. But I shall not give up my Liberty for a dirty annuity. I shall come and go where I like. Perhaps it may suit me to stay away, and correspond with a friend; perhaps not. Have you the money with you?’
莱佛士在这里站起来，在房间里来回踱来踱去一两次，摆动着腿，做出一副沉思的样子。最后他在布尔斯特罗德对面停下来，说道：“我来告诉你吧！给我们几百个——来吧，这很谦虚——然后我就走——荣耀光辉！——拿起我的手提包走开。但我不会为了肮脏的年金而放弃我的自由。我会去我喜欢的地方。也许我适合远离一处，与朋友通信；也许不是。你带钱了吗？

‘No, I have one hundred,’ said Bulstrode, feeling the immediate riddance too great a relief to be rejected on the ground of future uncertainties. ‘I will forward you the other if you will mention an address.’
“不，我有一百个，”布尔斯特罗德说，他感到立即摆脱是一种巨大的解脱，不能因为未来的不确定性而拒绝。 “如果你能提到地址，我会把另一封转给你。”

‘No, I’ll wait here till you bring it,’ said Raffles. ‘I’ll take a stroll and have a snack, and you’ll be back by that time.’
“不，我会在这里等你把它带来，”莱佛士说。 “我去逛逛，吃点零食，到时候你就回来了。”

Mr. Bulstrode’s sickly body, shattered by the agitations he had gone through since the last evening, made him feel abjectly in the power of this loud invulnerable man. At that moment he snatched at a temporary repose to be won on any terms. He was rising to do what Raffles suggested, when the latter said, lifting up his finger as if with a sudden recollection—
布尔斯特罗德先生病弱的身体因昨晚以来所经历的焦躁而支离破碎，这让他在这个声音大、刀枪不入的人的力量下感到悲惨。就在那一刻，他抓住了暂时的休息机会，不惜任何条件来争取。他正准备按照莱佛士的建议去做，这时后者抬起手指说道——

‘I did have another look after Sarah again, though I didn’t tell you; I’d a tender conscience about that pretty young woman. I didn’t find her, but I found out her husband’s name, and I made a note of it. But hang it, I lost my pocketbook. However, if I heard it, I should know it again. I’ve got my faculties as if I was in my prime, but names wear out, by Jove! Sometimes I’m no better than a confounded tax-paper before the names are filled in. However, if I hear of her and her family, you shall know, Nick. You’d like to do something for her, now she’s your step-daughter.’
“虽然我没有告诉你，但我确实再次照顾过莎拉；我对那个年轻漂亮的女人心怀愧疚。我没有找到她，但我找到了她丈夫的名字，并记了下来。但别介意，我的钱包丢了。不过，如果我听到了，我应该又知道了。我的能力就像在巅峰时期一样，但名字已经磨损了，天啊！有时，在填写名字之前，我并不比一张混乱的税单好多少。但是，如果我听说过她和她的家人，你就会知道，尼克。你想为她做点什么，现在她是你的继女了。”

‘Doubtless,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, with the usual steady look of his light-gray eyes; ‘though that might reduce my power of assisting you.’
“毫无疑问，”布尔斯特罗德先生说，他的浅灰色眼睛一如既往地坚定。 “尽管这可能会减少我帮助你的力量。”

As he walked out of the room, Raffles winked slowly at his back, and then turned towards the window to watch the banker riding away— virtually at his command. His lips first curled with a smile and then opened with a short triumphant laugh.
当他走出房间时，莱佛士在他的背后慢慢地眨了眨眼睛，然后转向窗户，看着银行家骑马离开——几乎是在他的指挥下。他的嘴唇先是微笑，然后张开，发出一阵短暂的胜利的笑声。

‘But what the deuce was the name?’ he presently said, half aloud, scratching his head, and wrinkling his brows horizontally. He had not really cared or thought about this point of forgetfulness until it occurred to him in his invention of annoyances for Bulstrode.
“但是这个名字到底是什么？”他挠着头，皱起眉头，低声问道。他并没有真正关心或思考过这一点，直到他在为布尔斯特罗德发明烦恼时想到了这一点。

‘It began with L; it was almost all l’s I fancy,’ he went on, with a sense that he was getting hold of the slippery name. But the hold was too slight, and he soon got tired of this mental chase; for few men were more impatient of private occupation or more in need of making themselves continually heard than Mr. Raffles. He preferred using his time in pleasant conversation with the bailiff and the housekeeper, from whom he gathered as much as he wanted to know about Mr. Bulstrode’s position in Middlemarch.
‘以L开头；这几乎就是我所想的，”他继续说道，感觉自己已经掌握了这个狡猾的名字。但这种抓握太轻了，他很快就厌倦了这种精神上的追逐。因为很少有人比莱佛士先生更不耐烦私人事务，或更需要不断地让别人听到自己的声音。他更喜欢利用时间与法警和管家进行愉快的交谈，从他们那里他可以了解到布尔斯特罗德先生在米德尔马契的职位。

After all, however, there was a dull space of time which needed relieving with bread and cheese and ale, and when he was seated alone with these resources in the wainscoted parlor, he suddenly slapped his knee, and exclaimed, ‘Ladislaw!’ That action of memory which he had tried to set going, and had abandoned in despair, had suddenly completed itself without conscious effort—a common experience, agreeable as a completed sneeze, even if the name remembered is of no value. Raffles immediately took out his pocket-book, and wrote down the name, not because he expected to use it, but merely for the sake of not being at a loss if he ever did happen to want it. He was not going to tell Bulstrode: there was no actual good in telling, and to a mind like that of Mr. Raffles there is always probable good in a secret.
然而，毕竟有一段无聊的时间需要面包、奶酪和麦芽酒来缓解，当他带着这些资源独自坐在壁板客厅里时，他突然拍了一下膝盖，喊道：“拉迪斯拉夫！”他曾试图启动，但在绝望中放弃的记忆活动，突然在没有意识的努力下完成了——这是一种常见的经历，像打完喷嚏一样令人愉快，即使记住的名字没有任何价值。莱佛士立即掏出他的皮夹，写下了这个名字，并不是因为他希望使用它，而是为了在万一需要时不至于手足无措。他不会告诉布尔斯特罗德：告诉并没有实际的好处，而对于莱佛士先生这样的人来说，秘密总是可能有好处的。

He was satisfied with his present success, and by three o’clock that day he had taken up his portmanteau at the turnpike and mounted the coach, relieving Mr. Bulstrode’s eyes of an ugly black spot on the landscape at Stone Court, but not relieving him of the dread that the black spot might reappear and become inseparable even from the vision of his hearth.
他对自己目前的成功感到满意，到了那天三点钟，他在收费公路上拿起了他的旅行包，登上了马车，布尔斯特罗德先生的眼睛从斯通庭院的风景上看到了一个丑陋的黑点，但并没有减轻他担心黑点可能会再次出现，甚至与壁炉的景象密不可分。

BOOK VI.
第六册。


THE WIDOW AND THE WIFE.
寡妇和妻子。


Chapter LIV
第 54 章

‘Negli occhi porta la mia donna Amore;
Per che si fa gentil eio ch’ella mira:
Per che si fa gentil eio ch’ella mira：

Ov’ella passa, ogni uom ver lei si gira,
Ov'ella passa，ogni uom ver lei si gira，

E cui saluta fa tremar lo core.
E cui saluta fa tremar lo core。

Sicche, bassando il viso, tutto smore,
Sicche，bassando il viso，tutto smore，

E d’ogni suo difetto allor sospira:
Fuggon dinanzi a lei Superbia ed Ira:
Fuggon dinanzi a lei Superbia ed Ira：

Aiutatemi, donne, a farle onore.
Aiutatemi，donne，a farle onore。

Ogni dolcezza, ogni pensiero umile
Nasee nel core a chi parlar la sente;
Nasee nel core a chi parlar la cente；

Ond’ e beato chi prima la vide.
Ond’e Beato Chi prima la vide。

Quel ch’ella par quand’ un poco sorride,
Non si pub dicer, ne tener a mente,
Non si pub dicer, ne tener amente,

Si e nuovo miracolo gentile.’
Si e nuovo miracolo gentile。’

—DANTE: la Vita Nuova.
——但丁：《新生活》。

By that delightful morning when the hay-ricks at Stone Court were scenting the air quite impartially, as if Mr. Raffles had been a guest worthy of finest incense, Dorothea had again taken up her abode at Lowick Manor. After three months Freshitt had become rather oppressive: to sit like a model for Saint Catherine looking rapturously at Celia’s baby would not do for many hours in the day, and to remain in that momentous babe’s presence with persistent disregard was a course that could not have been tolerated in a childless sister. Dorothea would have been capable of carrying baby joyfully for a mile if there had been need, and of loving it the more tenderly for that labor; but to an aunt who does not recognize her infant nephew as Bouddha, and has nothing to do for him but to admire, his behavior is apt to appear monotonous, and the interest of watching him exhaustible. This possibility was quite hidden from Celia, who felt that Dorothea’s childless widowhood fell in quite prettily with the birth of little Arthur (baby was named after Mr. Brooke).
那个令人愉快的早晨，当斯通庭院的干草堆在空气中散发出相当公正的气味时，就好像莱佛士先生是一位值得上香的客人一样，多萝西娅又在洛威克庄园住了下来。三个月后，弗莱西特变得相当压抑：像圣凯瑟琳的模特一样坐着，全神贯注地看着西莉亚的婴儿，一天中的几个小时是不行的，而持续无视地留在那个重要的婴儿面前是一种不可能的做法。被一个没有孩子的姐妹所容忍。如果有需要的话，多萝西娅本可以快乐地怀着孩子走一英里，而且会因为这份劳动而更加温柔地爱着孩子；但对于一个不认小外甥为菩萨，除了欣赏之外无事可做的阿姨来说，他的行为就容易显得单调，看他的兴趣也消失殆尽。西莉亚完全没有意识到这种可能性，她觉得多萝西娅没有孩子的守寡与小亚瑟（婴儿以布鲁克先生的名字命名）的出生非常吻合。

‘Dodo is just the creature not to mind about having anything of her own— children or anything!’ said Celia to her husband. ‘And if she had had a baby, it never could have been such a dear as Arthur. Could it, James?
“多多就是一种不介意拥有自己的任何东西——孩子或任何东西的生物！”西莉亚对她的丈夫说。 “如果她有了孩子，她就不会像亚瑟那样可爱。可以吗，詹姆斯？

‘Not if it had been like Casaubon,’ said Sir James, conscious of some indirectness in his answer, and of holding a strictly private opinion as to the perfections of his first-born.
“如果像卡苏朋那样，就不会了。”詹姆斯爵士说，他意识到自己的回答有些间接，并且对于他的长子的完美程度持有严格的个人观点。

‘No! just imagine! Really it was a mercy,’ said Celia; ‘and I think it is very nice for Dodo to be a widow. She can be just as fond of our baby as if it were her own, and she can have as many notions of her own as she likes.’
'不！想象一下！确实，这是一种仁慈，”西莉亚说。 “我认为多多成为寡妇是件好事。她可以像爱自己的孩子一样爱我们的孩子，她可以有很多自己的想法。”

‘It is a pity she was not a queen,’ said the devout Sir James.
“遗憾的是她没有成为女王，”虔诚的詹姆斯爵士说道。

‘But what should we have been then? We must have been something else,’ said Celia, objecting to so laborious a flight of imagination. ‘I like her better as she is.’
“但是那时我们应该怎样呢？我们一定是另外一种人，”西莉亚说道，反对如此费力的想象力。 “我更喜欢她本来的样子。”

Hence, when she found that Dorothea was making arrangements for her final departure to Lowick, Celia raised her eyebrows with disappointment, and in her quiet unemphatic way shot a needle-arrow of sarcasm.
因此，当她发现多萝西娅正在为她最后一次前往洛威克做安排时，西莉亚失望地扬起眉毛，以她安静不张扬的方式射出了一根讽刺的针箭。

‘What will you do at Lowick, Dodo? You say yourself there is nothing to be done there: everybody is so clean and well off, it makes you quite melancholy. And here you have been so happy going all about Tipton with Mr. Garth into the worst backyards. And now uncle is abroad, you and Mr. Garth can have it all your own way; and I am sure James does everything you tell him.’
“你要去洛威克做什么，多多？你自己说那里没什么可做的，大家都那么干净、那么富裕，这让你很忧郁。在这里，你很高兴和加斯先生一起走进最糟糕的后院。现在叔叔在国外，你和加斯先生可以随心所欲；我确信詹姆斯会做你告诉他的一切。

‘I shall often come here, and I shall see how baby grows all the better,’ said Dorothea.
“我会经常来这里，我会看看宝宝如何成长得更好，”多萝西娅说。

‘But you will never see him washed,’ said Celia; ‘and that is quite the best part of the day.’ She was almost pouting: it did seem to her very hard in Dodo to go away from the baby when she might stay.
“但你永远不会看到他被洗干净了，”西莉亚说。 “这是一天中最美好的时刻。”她几乎要撅嘴了：在多多看来，当她可以留下来时，离开孩子确实很难。

‘Dear Kitty, I will come and stay all night on purpose,’ said Dorothea; ‘but I want to be alone now, and in my own home. I wish to know the Farebrothers better, and to talk to Mr. Farebrother about what there is to be done in Middlemarch.’
“亲爱的基蒂，我会特意来过夜，”多萝西娅说。 “但我现在想一个人呆着，在自己的家里。我希望更好地了解费尔兄弟，并与费尔兄弟先生谈谈在米德尔马契要做的事情。

Dorothea’s native strength of will was no longer all converted into resolute submission. She had a great yearning to be at Lowick, and was simply determined to go, not feeling bound to tell all her reasons. But every one around her disapproved. Sir James was much pained, and offered that they should all migrate to Cheltenham for a few months with the sacred ark, otherwise called a cradle: at that period a man could hardly know what to propose if Cheltenham were rejected.
多萝西娅天生的意志力不再全部转化为坚决的服从。她非常渴望去洛威克，并且只是决定去，而不觉得有必要说出她所有的原因。但周围的人都反对她。詹姆斯爵士非常痛苦，提出他们都应该带着神圣的方舟（也称为摇篮）迁移到切尔滕纳姆几个月：在那个时期，如果切尔滕纳姆被拒绝，人们几乎不知道该提出什么建议。

The Dowager Lady Chettam, just returned from a visit to her daughter in town, wished, at least, that Mrs. Vigo should be written to, and invited to accept the office of companion to Mrs. Casaubon: it was not credible that Dorothea as a young widow would think of living alone in the house at Lowick. Mrs. Vigo had been reader and secretary to royal personages, and in point of knowledge and sentiments even Dorothea could have nothing to object to her.
切塔姆夫人刚从镇上探望女儿回来，至少希望给维果夫人写信，邀请她接受卡苏邦夫人的伴侣一职：多萝西娅作为一个年轻的寡妇会想到独自住在洛威克的房子里。维戈夫人曾是王室人士的读书人和秘书，论学识和情操，就连多萝西娅也无可奈何。

Mrs. Cadwallader said, privately, ‘You will certainly go mad in that house alone, my dear. You will see visions. We have all got to exert ourselves a little to keep sane, and call things by the same names as other people call them by. To be sure, for younger sons and women who have no money, it is a sort of provision to go mad: they are taken care of then. But you must not run into that. I dare say you are a little bored here with our good dowager; but think what a bore you might become yourself to your fellow-creatures if you were always playing tragedy queen and taking things sublimely. Sitting alone in that library at Lowick you may fancy yourself ruling the weather; you must get a few people round you who wouldn’t believe you if you told them. That is a good lowering medicine.’
卡德瓦拉德夫人私下里说：“亲爱的，你一个人呆在那所房子里肯定会发疯的。”你会看到异象。我们都必须努力保持理智，并用与其他人相同的名称来称呼事物。可以肯定的是，对于没有钱的小儿子和妇女来说，这是一种发疯的规定：然后他们就得到了照顾。但你一定不能遇到这种情况。我敢说你和我们的好太后在一起有点无聊了；但想想看，如果你总是扮演悲剧女王并把事情看得崇高，那么你可能会让你的同胞感到多么厌烦。独自坐在洛伊克的图书馆里，你可能会幻想自己可以主宰天气；你周围一定有一些人，如果你告诉他们，他们不会相信你。这是一剂很好的降压药。

‘I never called everything by the same name that all the people about me did,’ said Dorothea, stoutly.
“我从来没有像我周围的人一样用同样的名字来称呼所有的东西，”多萝西娅坚定地说。

‘But I suppose you have found out your mistake, my dear,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, ‘and that is a proof of sanity.’
“但我想你已经发现了自己的错误，亲爱的，”卡德沃拉德夫人说，“这证明你心智健全。”

Dorothea was aware of the sting, but it did not hurt her. ‘No,’ she said, ‘I still think that the greater part of the world is mistaken about many things. Surely one may be sane and yet think so, since the greater part of the world has often had to come round from its opinion.’
多萝西娅意识到了刺痛，但并没有伤害到她。 “不，”她说，“我仍然认为世界上大部分人在很多事情上都犯了错误。当然，一个人可能是理智的，但也这么认为，因为世界上大部分人常常不得不改变自己的观点。

Mrs. Cadwallader said no more on that point to Dorothea, but to her husband she remarked, ‘It will be well for her to marry again as soon as it is proper, if one could get her among the right people. Of course the Chettams would not wish it. But I see clearly a husband is the best thing to keep her in order. If we were not so poor I would invite Lord Triton. He will be marquis some day, and there is no denying that she would make a good marchioness: she looks handsomer than ever in her mourning.’
卡德沃拉德夫人没有再对多萝西娅谈及这一点，但她对她的丈夫说：“如果有人能让她成为合适的人，她最好在合适的时候再结婚。”切塔姆人当然不希望这样。但我清楚地看到，丈夫是让她保持秩序的最佳人选。如果我们不是那么穷的话我会邀请特里顿勋爵。有一天他会成为侯爵，无可否认，她会成为一名优秀的侯爵夫人：她在哀悼中看起来比以往任何时候都更加英俊。

‘My dear Elinor, do let the poor woman alone. Such contrivances are of no use,’ said the easy Rector.
“亲爱的埃莉诺，别打扰这个可怜的女人。这样的花招是没有用的。”轻松的校长说。

‘No use? How are matches made, except by bringing men and women together? And it is a shame that her uncle should have run away and shut up the Grange just now. There ought to be plenty of eligible matches invited to Freshitt and the Grange. Lord Triton is precisely the man: full of plans for making the people happy in a soft-headed sort of way. That would just suit Mrs. Casaubon.’
‘没有用吗？除了让男人和女人走到一起之外，如何进行配对呢？可惜她叔叔刚才就跑了，把农庄关起来了。应该有很多符合资格的比赛邀请到弗雷希特和农庄进行。特里顿勋爵正是这样的人：充满了以一种软弱的方式让人民幸福的计划。这正适合卡苏邦夫人。”

‘Let Mrs. Casaubon choose for herself, Elinor.’
“埃丽诺，让卡苏朋夫人自己选择吧。”

‘That is the nonsense you wise men talk! How can she choose if she has no variety to choose from? A woman’s choice usually means taking the only man she can get. Mark my words, Humphrey. If her friends don’t exert themselves, there will be a worse business than the Casaubon business yet.’
‘这就是你们这些聪明人所说的废话！如果没有品种可供选择，她该如何选择？女人的选择通常意味着选择她唯一能找到的男人。记住我的话，汉弗莱。如果她的朋友们不努力的话，还会有比卡苏邦生意更糟糕的事情发生。

‘For heaven’s sake don’t touch on that topic, Elinor! It is a very sore point with Sir James He would be deeply offended if you entered on it to him unnecessarily.’
“看在上帝的份上，不要触及这个话题，埃莉诺！这是詹姆斯爵士的一个非常痛处，如果你不必要地向他透露这件事，他会被深深冒犯。

‘I have never entered on it,’ said Mrs Cadwallader, opening her hands. ‘Celia told me all about the will at the beginning, without any asking of mine.’
“我从来没有参与过，”卡德瓦拉德夫人张开双手说道。 “西莉亚一开始就告诉了我关于遗嘱的一切，我没有询问。”

‘Yes, yes; but they want the thing hushed up, and I understand that the young fellow is going out of the neighborhood.’
'是的是的;但他们希望这件事保密，而且我知道这个年轻人要离开附近了。”

Mrs. Cadwallader said nothing, but gave her husband three significant nods, with a very sarcastic expression in her dark eyes.
卡德瓦拉德夫人什么也没说，只是向她的丈夫点了点头，黑眼睛里流露出非常讽刺的表情。

Dorothea quietly persisted in spite of remonstrance and persuasion. So by the end of June the shutters were all opened at Lowick Manor, and the morning gazed calmly into the library, shining on the rows of note-books as it shines on the weary waste planted with huge stones, the mute memorial of a forgotten faith; and the evening laden with roses entered silently into the blue-green boudoir where Dorothea chose oftenest to sit. At first she walked into every room, questioning the eighteen months of her married life, and carrying on her thoughts as if they were a speech to be heard by her husband. Then, she lingered in the library and could not be at rest till she had carefully ranged all the note-books as she imagined that he would wish to see them, in orderly sequence. The pity which had been the restraining compelling motive in her life with him still clung about his image, even while she remonstrated with him in indignant thought and told him that he was unjust. One little act of hers may perhaps be smiled at as superstitious. The Synoptical Tabulation for the use of Mrs. Casaubon, she carefully enclosed and sealed, writing within the envelope, ‘I could not use it. Do you not see now that I could not submit my soul to yours, by working hopelessly at what I have no belief in—Dorothea?’ Then she deposited the paper in her own desk.
多萝西娅不顾众人的劝阻和劝说，默默地坚持着。于是，到了六月底，洛威克庄园的百叶窗都打开了，早晨平静地凝视着图书馆，照耀着一排排笔记本，照耀着种植着巨大石头的疲惫荒地，无声地纪念着一个被遗忘的人。信仰;玫瑰花开的黄昏悄然进入了多萝西娅最常坐的蓝绿色闺房。起初，她走进每个房间，质疑她十八个月的婚姻生活，并继续她的想法，就好像这些想法是要让她丈夫听的一样。然后，她在图书馆里徘徊，直到将所有的笔记本按照她想象中他希望看到的顺序仔细地排列起来，才得以休息。尽管她愤怒地向他提出抗议，告诉他他不公正，但怜悯在她与他的生活中一直是抑制她的令人信服的动机，但仍然依附在他的形象上。她的一个小举动也许会被嘲笑为迷信。卡苏邦夫人使用的天气表，她小心翼翼地附上并密封，在信封内写道：“我无法使用它。”你现在难道没有看到，我不能通过绝望地为我不相信的事情——多萝西娅——而将自己的灵魂屈服于你的灵魂吗？”然后她把文件放在自己的办公桌上。

That silent colloquy was perhaps only the more earnest because underneath and through it all there was always the deep longing which had really determined her to come to Lowick. The longing was to see Will Ladislaw. She did not know any good that could come of their meeting: she was helpless; her hands had been tied from making up to him for any unfairness in his lot. But her soul thirsted to see him. How could it be otherwise? If a princess in the days of enchantment had seen a four-footed creature from among those which live in herds come to her once and again with a human gaze which rested upon her with choice and beseeching, what would she think of in her journeying, what would she look for when the herds passed her? Surely for the gaze which had found her, and which she would know again. Life would be no better than candle-light tinsel and daylight rubbish if our spirits were not touched by what has been, to issues of longing and constancy. It was true that Dorothea wanted to know the Farebrothers better, and especially to talk to the new rector, but also true that remembering what Lydgate had told her about Will Ladislaw and little Miss Noble, she counted on Will’s coming to Lowick to see the Farebrother family. The very first Sunday, BEFORE she entered the church, she saw him as she had seen him the last time she was there, alone in the clergyman’s pew; but WHEN she entered his figure was gone.
这场无声的谈话或许更加真诚，因为在这一切的背后和整个过程中，始终存在着深深的渴望，正是这种渴望真正决定了她来到洛威克。我渴望见到威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫。她不知道他们的会面会带来什么好处：她很无助；她很无助；她很无助；她很无助；她很无助；她很无助。她的双手被绑住了，无法弥补他命运中的任何不公平。但她的灵魂渴望见到他。不然怎么可能呢？如果一位在魔法时代的公主看到一个群居动物中的四足生物一次又一次地以人类的目光来到她身边，带着选择和恳求的目光落在她身上，她在旅途中会想到什么？当牛群经过她身边时，她会寻找什么？肯定是因为那双凝视找到了她，她会再次认识它。如果我们的精神没有被过去的事情、渴望和坚定的问题所触动，生活就不会比烛光金属丝和日光垃圾更好。确实，多萝西娅想更好地了解费雷兄弟，尤其是与新任校长交谈，但同样真实的是，记住利德盖特告诉她的有关威尔·拉迪斯瓦和小诺布尔小姐的事情，她指望威尔会来洛威克见费雷兄弟。家庭。第一个周日，在她进入教堂之前，她看到了他，就像她上次去那里时看到的那样，独自一人坐在牧师的座位上。但当她进来时，他的身影就消失了。

In the week-days when she went to see the ladies at the Rectory, she listened in vain for some word that they might let fall about Will; but it seemed to her that Mrs. Farebrother talked of every one else in the neighborhood and out of it.
平日里，当她去教区长官邸拜访女士们时，她徒劳地听到她们可能会泄露威尔的消息。但在她看来，费勒布拉泽太太似乎谈论着附近内外的每一个人。

‘Probably some of Mr. Farebrother’s Middlemarch hearers may follow him to Lowick sometimes. Do you not think so?’ said Dorothea, rather despising herself for having a secret motive in asking the question.
“也许费雷布拉泽先生的一些米德尔马契听众有时会跟随他去洛威克。你不这么认为吗？”多萝西娅说道，她相当鄙视自己问这个问题的动机。

‘If they are wise they will, Mrs. Casaubon,’ said the old lady. ‘I see that you set a right value on my son’s preaching. His grandfather on my side was an excellent clergyman, but his father was in the law:— most exemplary and honest nevertheless, which is a reason for our never being rich. They say Fortune is a woman and capricious. But sometimes she is a good woman and gives to those who merit, which has been the case with you, Mrs. Casaubon, who have given a living to my son.’
“如果他们明智的话，他们会的，卡苏朋夫人，”老太太说。 “我看到你对我儿子的讲道给予了正确的评价。我这边他的祖父是一位出色的牧师，但他的父亲是一名法律工作者：——尽管如此，他还是最模范和诚实的，这也是我们从未致富的原因。人们说命运是个任性的女人。但有时她是个好女人，会为那些值得的人做出贡献，卡苏邦夫人就是这样，你为我的儿子谋生。

Mrs. Farebrother recurred to her knitting with a dignified satisfaction in her neat little effort at oratory, but this was not what Dorothea wanted to hear. Poor thing! she did not even know whether Will Ladislaw was still at Middlemarch, and there was no one whom she dared to ask, unless it were Lydgate. But just now she could not see Lydgate without sending for him or going to seek him. Perhaps Will Ladislaw, having heard of that strange ban against him left by Mr. Casaubon, had felt it better that he and she should not meet again, and perhaps she was wrong to wish for a meeting that others might find many good reasons against. Still ‘I do wish it’ came at the end of those wise reflections as naturally as a sob after holding the breath. And the meeting did happen, but in a formal way quite unexpected by her.
法尔布拉泽太太又开始编织了，她在演讲中表现得十分得体，但这并不是多萝西娅想听的。可怜的东西！她甚至不知道威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫是否还在米德尔马契，她没有人敢问，除非是利德盖特。但刚才她不能见利德盖特，除非派人去找他，或者去找他。也许威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫听说了卡苏邦先生对他留下的奇怪禁令后，觉得他和她最好不要再见面了，也许她希望这次会面是错误的，其他人可能会找到很多充分的理由反对。然而，在这些明智的思考结束时，“我确实希望如此”就像屏住呼吸后的抽泣一样自然。这次会面确实发生了，但以一种出乎她意料的正式方式。

One morning, about eleven, Dorothea was seated in her boudoir with a map of the land attached to the manor and other papers before her, which were to help her in making an exact statement for herself of her income and affairs. She had not yet applied herself to her work, but was seated with her hands folded on her lap, looking out along the avenue of limes to the distant fields. Every leaf was at rest in the sunshine, the familiar scene was changeless, and seemed to represent the prospect of her life, full of motiveless ease—motiveless, if her own energy could not seek out reasons for ardent action. The widow’s cap of those times made an oval frame for the face, and had a crown standing up; the dress was an experiment in the utmost laying on of crape; but this heavy solemnity of clothing made her face look all the younger, with its recovered bloom, and the sweet, inquiring candor of her eyes.
一天早上，十一点左右，多萝西娅坐在她的闺房里，手里拿着一张庄园上的土地地图和其他文件，这些文件可以帮助她准确地说明自己的收入和事务。她还没有专心干活，只是双手交叉放在膝上，沿着椴树大道望向远处的田野。每片叶子都在阳光下休息，熟悉的场景一成不变，似乎代表着她的生活前景，充满了无目的的轻松——无目的的，如果她自己的精力无法找到热切行动的理由的话。那时的寡妇帽为脸型画出椭圆形的轮廓，并有一个直立的王冠。这件衣服是对绉纱的最大程度的尝试。但这种庄重的服装使她的脸看起来更加年轻，恢复了光彩，眼睛里充满了甜蜜、好奇和坦诚。

Her reverie was broken by Tantripp, who came to say that Mr. Ladislaw was below, and begged permission to see Madam if it were not too early.
坦特里普打断了她的沉思，坦特里普过来告诉拉迪斯瓦夫先生在下面，并请求允许她见见夫人，如果时间不太早的话。

‘I will see him,’ said Dorothea, rising immediately. ‘Let him be shown into the drawing-room.’
“我会见他，”多萝西娅立即站了起来。 “让他进入客厅。”

The drawing-room was the most neutral room in the house to her— the one least associated with the trials of her married life: the damask matched the wood-work, which was all white and gold; there were two tall mirrors and tables with nothing on them— in brief, it was a room where you had no reason for sitting in one place rather than in another. It was below the boudoir, and had also a bow-window looking out on the avenue. But when Pratt showed Will Ladislaw into it the window was open; and a winged visitor, buzzing in and out now and then without minding the furniture, made the room look less formal and uninhabited.
对她来说，客厅是家里最中性的房间——与她婚姻生活的考验最少的房间：锦缎与全白色和金色的木制品相匹配；房间里有两面高高的镜子和桌子，上面什么也没有——简而言之，在这个房间里，你没有理由坐在一个地方而不是另一个地方。它在闺房下面，还有一个弓形窗，可以看到外面的大街。但当普拉特带威尔·拉迪斯洛进去时，窗户是开着的。一个长着翅膀的访客时不时地嗡嗡地进进出出，根本不关心家具，这让房间看起来不那么正式，也无人居住。

‘Glad to see you here again, sir,’ said Pratt, lingering to adjust a blind.
“很高兴再次在这里见到您，先生。”普拉特说道，一边犹豫着调整百叶窗。

‘I am only come to say good-by, Pratt,’ said Will, who wished even the butler to know that he was too proud to hang about Mrs. Casaubon now she was a rich widow.
“我只是来道别，普拉特，”威尔说，他希望连管家都知道，他太骄傲了，不能再纠缠卡苏朋夫人了，因为她现在是一个富有的寡妇了。

‘Very sorry to hear it, sir,’ said Pratt, retiring. Of course, as a servant who was to be told nothing, he knew the fact of which Ladislaw was still ignorant, and had drawn his inferences; indeed, had not differed from his betrothed Tantripp when she said, ‘Your master was as jealous as a fiend—and no reason. Madam would look higher than Mr. Ladislaw, else I don’t know her. Mrs. Cadwallader’s maid says there’s a lord coming who is to marry her when the mourning’s over.’
“听到这个消息我感到非常遗憾，先生，”普拉特一边说着，一边告退。当然，作为一个什么也不知道的仆人，他知道拉迪斯瓦夫还不知道的事实，并做出了推断；事实上，当她说：“你的主人像恶魔一样嫉妒——而且没有任何理由时，这与他的未婚夫坦特里普没有什么不同。”女士看起来应该比拉迪斯瓦先生高，否则我不认识她。卡德瓦拉德夫人的女仆说，哀悼结束后，会有一位领主来娶她。

There were not many moments for Will to walk about with his hat in his hand before Dorothea entered. The meeting was very different from that first meeting in Rome when Will had been embarrassed and Dorothea calm. This time he felt miserable but determined, while she was in a state of agitation which could not be hidden. Just outside the door she had felt that this longed-for meeting was after all too difficult, and when she saw Will advancing towards her, the deep blush which was rare in her came with painful suddenness. Neither of them knew how it was, but neither of them spoke. She gave her hand for a moment, and then they went to sit down near the window, she on one settee and he on another opposite. Will was peculiarly uneasy: it seemed to him not like Dorothea that the mere fact of her being a widow should cause such a change in her manner of receiving him; and he knew of no other condition which could have affected their previous relation to each other— except that, as his imagination at once told him, her friends might have been poisoning her mind with their suspicions of him.
没过多久，威尔就拿着帽子走来走去，多萝西娅就进来了。这次会面与在罗马的第一次会面有很大不同，当时威尔很尴尬，多萝西娅很平静。这一次，他心里痛苦却又坚定，而她却是掩饰不住的激动。刚在门外她就觉得这次渴望已久的见面实在是太艰难了，当她看到威尔向她走来时，她脸上罕见的深红突然痛苦地袭来。两人都不知道是怎么回事，但谁也没有说话。她把手伸了一会儿，然后他们走到窗边坐下，她坐在一张长椅上，他坐在对面的另一张长椅上。威尔特别不安：在他看来，多萝西娅不像多萝西娅，仅仅因为她是寡妇，就导致她接待他的方式发生如此变化；他不知道还有什么其他情况会影响他们之前的关系——除了，正如他的想象立刻告诉他的那样，她的朋友们可能因为对他的怀疑而毒害了她的心灵。

‘I hope I have not presumed too much in calling,’ said Will; ‘I could not bear to leave the neighborhood and begin a new life without seeing you to say good-by.’
“我希望我打电话时没有太过自以为是，”威尔说。 “我无法忍受在没有见到你告别的情况下离开社区并开始新的生活。”

‘Presumed? Surely not. I should have thought it unkind if you had not wished to see me,’ said Dorothea, her habit of speaking with perfect genuineness asserting itself through all her uncertainty and agitation. ‘Are you going away immediately?’
‘推测？当然不是。如果你不想见我，我会认为这是不友善的。”多萝西娅说，她说话时完全真诚的习惯在她所有的不确定和不安中显现出来。 “你马上就走吗？”

‘Very soon, I think. I intend to go to town and eat my dinners as a barrister, since, they say, that is the preparation for all public business. There will be a great deal of political work to be done by-and-by, and I mean to try and do some of it. Other men have managed to win an honorable position for themselves without family or money.’
“我想很快了。我打算进城，以律师的身份吃晚饭，因为他们说，这是为所有公共事务做准备。不久之后将会有大量的政治工作要做，我打算尝试做其中的一些工作。其他男人则在没有家庭或金钱的情况下为自己赢得了光荣的地位。

‘And that will make it all the more honorable,’ said Dorothea, ardently. ‘Besides, you have so many talents. I have heard from my uncle how well you speak in public, so that every one is sorry when you leave off, and how clearly you can explain things. And you care that justice should be done to every one. I am so glad. When we were in Rome, I thought you only cared for poetry and art, and the things that adorn life for us who are well off. But now I know you think about the rest of the world.’
“这会让一切变得更加光荣，”多萝西娅热情地说。 ‘再说了，你的天赋还真多。我听我舅舅说，你在公共场合演讲得多么好，让大家在你离开时都感到抱歉，而且你能把事情解释得多么清楚。你关心的是每个人都应该得到公正的对待。我很高兴。当我们在罗马的时候，我以为你只关心诗歌和艺术，以及那些装饰我们富裕生活的东西。但现在我知道你想到的是世界其他地方。”

While she was speaking Dorothea had lost her personal embarrassment, and had become like her former self. She looked at Will with a direct glance, full of delighted confidence.
说话的时候，多萝西娅已经摆脱了个人的尴尬，变得像以前一样了。她直视威尔，充满喜悦的自信。

‘You approve of my going away for years, then, and never coming here again till I have made myself of some mark in the world?’ said Will, trying hard to reconcile the utmost pride with the utmost effort to get an expression of strong feeling from Dorothea.
“那么，你同意我离开多年，除非我在世界上留下了一些印记，否则永远不会再来这里吗？”威尔说，努力调和最大的自豪感和最大的努力，以表现出强烈的表情。来自多萝西娅的感觉。

She was not aware how long it was before she answered. She had turned her head and was looking out of the window on the rose-bushes, which seemed to have in them the summers of all the years when Will would be away. This was not judicious behavior. But Dorothea never thought of studying her manners: she thought only of bowing to a sad necessity which divided her from Will. Those first words of his about his intentions had seemed to make everything clear to her: he knew, she supposed, all about Mr. Casaubon’s final conduct in relation to him, and it had come to him with the same sort of shock as to herself. He had never felt more than friendship for her— had never had anything in his mind to justify what she felt to be her husband’s outrage on the feelings of both: and that friendship he still felt. Something which may be called an inward silent sob had gone on in Dorothea before she said with a pure voice, just trembling in the last words as if only from its liquid flexibility—
她不知道过了多久才回答。她转过头，望着窗外的玫瑰丛，这些玫瑰丛里似乎藏着威尔离开的这些年里的夏天。这不是明智的行为。但多萝西娅从未想过研究自己的举止：她只想屈服于一种使她与威尔分离的悲伤的必然性。他关于他的意图的第一句话似乎让她明白了一切：她猜想，他知道卡苏邦先生最后对他的行为，这让他感到震惊，就像她自己感到震惊一样。他对她的感情从来没有超出过友谊——他心里从来没有任何东西可以证明她认为她丈夫对两人感情的愤怒是合理的：而他仍然感受到了那种友谊。多萝西娅内心发出了一种可以称为无声的抽泣，然后用纯净的声音说道，最后几个字只是因为其液体般的灵活性而颤抖着——

‘Yes, it must be right for you to do as you say. I shall be very happy when I hear that you have made your value felt. But you must have patience. It will perhaps be a long while.’
‘是的，按照你说的去做，一定是对的。当我听到你让你的价值得到体现时，我会非常高兴。但你必须有耐心。也许需要很长时间。

Will never quite knew how it was that he saved himself from falling down at her feet, when the ‘long while’ came forth with its gentle tremor. He used to say that the horrible hue and surface of her crape dress was most likely the sufficient controlling force. He sat still, however, and only said—
当“漫长的时间”伴随着轻微的颤抖而来时，威尔永远不知道自己是如何避免跌倒在她脚下的。他曾经说过，她那黑纱裙那恐怖的色调和表面，很可能就是足够的控制力。但他还是坐着不动，只是说道——

‘I shall never hear from you. And you will forget all about me.’
‘我永远不会收到你的消息了。你会忘记我的一切。

‘No,’ said Dorothea, ‘I shall never forget you. I have never forgotten any one whom I once knew. My life has never been crowded, and seems not likely to be so. And I have a great deal of space for memory at Lowick, haven’t I?’ She smiled.
“不，”多萝西娅说，“我永远不会忘记你。”我从来没有忘记过任何一个我曾经认识的人。我的生活从来没有拥挤过，而且似乎也不会如此。 “我在洛威克有很大的记忆空间，不是吗？”她微笑着说道。

‘Good God!’ Will burst out passionately, rising, with his hat still in his hand, and walking away to a marble table, where he suddenly turned and leaned his back against it. The blood had mounted to his face and neck, and he looked almost angry. It had seemed to him as if they were like two creatures slowly turning to marble in each other’s presence, while their hearts were conscious and their eyes were yearning. But there was no help for it. It should never be true of him that in this meeting to which he had come with bitter resolution he had ended by a confession which might be interpreted into asking for her fortune. Moreover, it was actually true that he was fearful of the effect which such confessions might have on Dorothea herself.
“天哪！”威尔热情地喊道，他手里还拿着帽子，站了起来，走到一张大理石桌子旁，突然转身，背靠在桌子上。他的脸和脖子上全是血，他看上去几乎是生气了。在他看来，他们就像两个生物在彼此面前慢慢变成大理石，而他们的心是有意识的，他们的眼睛是渴望的。但没有任何帮助。他决不应该在这次会面中以痛苦的决心来结束他的忏悔，这可能会被理解为向她索取财富。而且，他确实担心这种坦白可能会对多萝西娅本人产生影响。

She looked at him from that distance in some trouble, imagining that there might hate been an offence in her words. But all the while there was a current of thought in her about his probable want of money, and the impossibility of her helping him. If her uncle had been at home, something might have been done through him! It was this preoccupation with the hardship of Will’s wanting money, while she had what ought to have been his share, which led her to say, seeing that he remained silent and looked away from her—
她从远处有些困惑地看着他，想象着她的话里可能有仇恨的成分。但与此同时，她心里一直在想，他可能缺钱，而她又不可能帮助他。如果她叔叔在家的话，说不定就可以通过他做点什么了！正是这种全神贯注于威尔想要钱的困难，而她却拥有本应属于他的那一份，这导致她在看到他保持沉默并把目光移开时说道——

‘I wonder whether you would like to have that miniature which hangs up-stairs—I mean that beautiful miniature OF your grandmother. I think it is not right for me to keep it, if you would wish to have it. It is wonderfully like you.’
“我想知道你是否愿意拥有挂在楼上的那个微缩模型——我指的是你祖母的那个美丽的微缩模型。如果你想拥有它，我认为我保留它是不合适的。它非常像你。

‘You are very good,’ said Will, irritably. ‘No; I don’t mind about it. It is not very consoling to have one’s own likeness. It would be more consoling if others wanted to have it.’
“你很好，”威尔烦躁地说。 '不;我不介意。拥有自己的肖像并不令人感到安慰。如果其他人也想拥有它，那就更令人安慰了。”

‘I thought you would like to cherish her memory—I thought— ‘Dorothea broke off an instant, her imagination suddenly warning her away from Aunt Julia’s history—‘you would surely like to have the miniature as a family memorial.’
“我以为你会想珍惜她的记忆——我想——”多萝西娅突然停了下来，她的想象力突然警告她远离朱莉娅姨妈的历史——“你肯定会想拥有这幅微型画作为家庭纪念。”

‘Why should I have that, when I have nothing else! A man with only a portmanteau for his stowage must keep his memorials in his head.’
‘当我没有别的东西时，我为什么要拥有这个！一个只有一个行李箱来存放物品的人必须将他的回忆记在脑子里。

Will spoke at random: he was merely venting his petulance; it was a little too exasperating to have his grandmother’s portrait offered him at that moment. But to Dorothea’s feeling his words had a peculiar sting. She rose and said with a touch of indignation as well as hauteur—
威尔随口说道：他只是发泄一下自己的脾气；此时此刻，他的祖母的肖像出现在他面前，实在是太令人恼火了。但对多萝西娅来说，他的话有一种特殊的刺痛感。她站起来，带着一丝愤慨和傲慢地说——

‘You are much the happier of us two, Mr. Ladislaw, to have nothing.’
“拉迪斯瓦先生，我们两个人中你最幸福，因为你一无所有。”

Will was startled. Whatever the words might be, the tone seemed like a dismissal; and quitting his leaning posture, he walked a little way towards her. Their eyes met, but with a strange questioning gravity. Something was keeping their minds aloof, and each was left to conjecture what was in the other. Will had really never thought of himself as having a claim of inheritance on the property which was held by Dorothea, and would have required a narrative to make him understand her present feeling.
威尔吃了一惊。不管用什么词，语气都像是不屑一顾。他放下倾斜的姿势，朝她走了一小段路。他们的目光相遇，却带着一种奇怪的、质疑的严肃。有什么东西让他们保持着冷漠的态度，让每个人都在猜测对方内心的想法。威尔真的从来没有想过自己对多萝西娅拥有的财产拥有继承权，并且需要一个叙述才能让他理解她现在的感受。

‘I never felt it a misfortune to have nothing till now,’ he said. ‘But poverty may be as bad as leprosy, if it divides us from what we most care for.’
“直到现在我才觉得一无所有是不幸的，”他说。 “但是，如果贫困使我们与我们最关心的事情分离，那么它可能和麻风病一样严重。”

The words cut Dorothea to the heart, and made her relent. She answered in a tone of sad fellowship.
这句话刺痛了多萝西娅的心，让她心软了。她以一种悲伤的、友爱的语气回答道。

‘Sorrow comes in so many ways. Two years ago I had no notion of that— I mean of the unexpected way in which trouble comes, and ties our hands, and makes us silent when we long to speak. I used to despise women a little for not shaping their lives more, and doing better things. I was very fond of doing as I liked, but I have almost given it up,’ she ended, smiling playfully.
'悲伤有多种方式。两年前，我还没有意识到这一点——我的意思是，当我们渴望说话时，麻烦会以意想不到的方式出现，束缚我们的手脚，让我们保持沉默。我曾经有点鄙视女性，因为她们没有更多地塑造自己的生活，没有做更好的事情。我很喜欢做自己喜欢做的​​事，但我几乎放弃了。”她顽皮地笑着结束道。

‘I have not given up doing as I like, but I can very seldom do it,’ said Will. He was standing two yards from her with his mind full of contradictory desires and resolves—desiring some unmistakable proof that she loved him, and yet dreading the position into which such a proof might bring him. ‘The thing one most longs for may be surrounded with conditions that would be intolerable.’
“我没有放弃做我喜欢做的事，但我很少能做到，”威尔说。他站在离她两码远的地方，心里充满了矛盾的欲望和决心——渴望得到一些明确无误的证据来证明她爱他，但又害怕这样的证据可能会让他陷入这样的境地。 “一个人最渴望的东西可能会被难以忍受的条件所包围。”

At this moment Pratt entered and said, ‘Sir James Chettam is in the library, madam.’
这时普拉特走了进来，说道：“詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士在图书馆里，女士。”

‘Ask Sir James to come in here,’ said Dorothea, immediately. It was as if the same electric shock had passed through her and Will. Each of them felt proudly resistant, and neither looked at the other, while they awaited Sir James’s entrance.
“请詹姆斯爵士到这里来，”多萝西娅立即说道。就好像同样的电击传遍了她和威尔。他们每个人都感到骄傲地抗拒，谁也没有看对方，等待着詹姆斯爵士的到来。

After shaking hands with Dorothea, he bowed as slightly as possible to Ladislaw, who repaid the slightness exactly, and then going towards Dorothea, said—
与多萝西娅握手后，他尽可能地向拉迪斯瓦夫微微鞠了一躬，而拉迪斯瓦夫也正好回礼，然后走向多萝西娅说道——

‘I must say good-by, Mrs. Casaubon; and probably for a long while.’
“我必须说再见了，卡苏朋夫人；可能会持续很长一段时间。

Dorothea put out her hand and said her good-by cordially. The sense that Sir James was depreciating Will, and behaving rudely to him, roused her resolution and dignity-there was no touch of confusion in her manner. And when Will had left the room, she looked with such calm self-possession at Sir James, saying, ‘How is Celia?’ that he was obliged to behave as if nothing had annoyed him. And what would be the use of behaving otherwise? Indeed, Sir James shrank with so much dislike from the association even in thought of Dorothea with Ladislaw as her possible lover, that he would himself have wished to avoid an outward show of displeasure which would have recognized the disagreeable possibility. If any one had asked him why he shrank in that way, I am not sure that he would at first have said anything fuller or more precise than ‘THAT Ladislaw!’— though on reflection he might have urged that Mr. Casaubon’s codicil, barring Dorothea’s marriage with Will, except under a penalty, was enough to cast unfitness over any relation at all between them. His aversion was all the stronger because he felt himself unable to interfere.
多萝西娅伸出手，亲切地道别。詹姆斯爵士贬低威尔并对他表现出粗鲁的感觉，唤起了她的决心和尊严——她的举止中没有一丝困惑。当威尔离开房间时，她平静地看着詹姆斯爵士，问道：“西莉亚怎么样？”他不得不表现得好像没有什么事情惹恼了他。否则的话又有什么用呢？事实上，詹姆斯爵士甚至一想到多萝西娅和拉迪斯瓦夫可能是她的情人，就对这种联系感到非常厌恶，以至于他自己也希望避免外在的不悦表现，因为这会承认这种令人不快的可能性。如果有人问他为什么缩成这样，我不确定他一开始会说比“那个拉迪斯瓦！”更全面或更准确的话——尽管经过反思，他可能会敦促卡苏邦先生的附录，除非多萝西娅与威尔的婚姻，除非受到惩罚，否则足以使他们之间的任何关系变得不合适。他的厌恶感更加强烈，因为他觉得自己无法干涉。

But Sir James was a power in a way unguessed by himself. Entering at that moment, he was an incorporation of the strongest reasons through which Will’s pride became a repellent force, keeping him asunder from Dorothea
但詹姆斯爵士在某种程度上是一个他自己都没有预料到的力量。从那时起，他就融入了最强烈的理由，通过这些理由，威尔的骄傲变成了一种排斥的力量，使他与多萝西娅分离。

CHAPTER LV
第六章

Hath she her faults? I would you had them too.
她有错吗？我希望你也有它们。

They are the fruity must of soundest wine;
它们是最优质葡萄酒的果香精华；

Or say, they are regenerating fire
或者说，他们正在再生火

Such as hath turned the dense black element
如化了浓浓的黑色元素

Into a crystal pathway for the sun.
进入阳光的水晶通道。

If youth is the season of hope, it is often so only in the sense that our elders are hopeful about us; for no age is so apt as youth to think its emotions, partings, and resolves are the last of their kind. Each crisis seems final, simply because it is new. We are told that the oldest inhabitants in Peru do not cease to be agitated by the earthquakes, but they probably see beyond each shock, and reflect that there are plenty more to come.
如果说青春是充满希望的季节，那么通常只是因为我们的长辈对我们充满希望；因为没有哪个时代比年轻人更容易认为自己的情感、离别和决心是同类中最后的了。每一次危机都看似是最终的，因为它是新的。我们得知，秘鲁最古老的居民并没有停止对地震的不安，但他们可能看到了每一次地震的背后，并反映出还会有更多的地震发生。

To Dorothea, still in that time of youth when the eyes with their long full lashes look out after their rain of tears unsoiled and unwearied as a freshly opened passion-flower, that morning’s parting with Will Ladislaw seemed to be the close of their personal relations. He was going away into the distance of unknown years, and if ever he came back he would be another man. The actual state of his mind— his proud resolve to give the lie beforehand to any suspicion that he would play the needy adventurer seeking a rich woman— lay quite out of her imagination, and she had interpreted all his behavior easily enough by her supposition that Mr. Casaubon’s codicil seemed to him, as it did to her, a gross and cruel interdict on any active friendship between them. Their young delight in speaking to each other, and saying what no one else would care to hear, was forever ended, and become a treasure of the past. For this very reason she dwelt on it without inward check. That unique happiness too was dead, and in its shadowed silent chamber she might vent the passionate grief which she herself wondered at. For the first time she took down the miniature from the wall and kept it before her, liking to blend the woman who had been too hardly judged with the grandson whom her own heart and judgment defended. Can any one who has rejoiced in woman’s tenderness think it a reproach to her that she took the little oval picture in her palm and made a bed for it there, and leaned her cheek upon it, as if that would soothe the creatures who had suffered unjust condemnation? She did not know then that it was Love who had come to her briefly, as in a dream before awaking, with the hues of morning on his wings— that it was Love to whom she was sobbing her farewell as his image was banished by the blameless rigor of irresistible day. She only felt that there was something irrevocably amiss and lost in her lot, and her thoughts about the future were the more readily shapen into resolve. Ardent souls, ready to construct their coming lives, are apt to commit themselves to the fulfilment of their own visions.
对于仍处于青春期的多萝西娅来说，那天早上与威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的分别似乎是他们私人关系的结束，那双长而浓密的睫毛在泪雨般的泪雨之后毫无玷污、不知疲倦地望着窗外，就像一朵新开的西番莲。 。他即将远去，走向未知的岁月，如果他回来，他将是另一个人。他的真实心理状态——他骄傲的决心，如果有人怀疑他会扮演一个寻找富有女人的贫困冒险家，他就会事先撒谎——完全出乎她的想象，她很容易就解释了他的所有行为，她认为：卡苏邦先生的附则对他和她来说都是粗暴而残酷的禁令，禁止他们之间建立任何积极的友谊。他们年轻时喜欢互相交谈，说别人不愿意听的话，现在已经永远结束了，成为了过去的一笔财富。正是因为这个原因，她没有内心地审视它。那种独特的幸福也已经死了，在阴暗、寂静的房间里，她可以发泄她自己所想知道的强烈的悲伤。她第一次把这幅微型画从墙上取下来，放在自己面前，喜欢将这个从未受到过评判的女人与她自己的内心和判断所捍卫的孙子融为一体。任何一个因女人的温柔而感到高兴的人会认为这是对她的一种耻辱吗？不公正的谴责？ 那时她并不知道，爱曾短暂地来到她身边，就像在醒来之前的梦中，他的翅膀上带着清晨的色彩——她不知道正是爱，当他的形象被天空驱逐时，她正在向他哭泣着告别。不可抗拒的日子的无可指责的严格性。她只觉得自己的命运有些不可挽回的不对劲和迷失，而她对未来的想法也更容易下定决心。热情的灵魂，准备好构建他们未来的生活，很容易致力于实现自己的愿景。

One day that she went to Freshitt to fulfil her promise of staying all night and seeing baby washed, Mrs. Cadwallader came to dine, the Rector being gone on a fishing excursion. It was a warm evening, and even in the delightful drawing-room, where the fine old turf sloped from the open window towards a lilied pool and well-planted mounds, the heat was enough to make Celia in her white muslin and light curls reflect with pity on what Dodo must feel in her black dress and close cap. But this was not until some episodes with baby were over, and had left her mind at leisure. She had seated herself and taken up a fan for some time before she said, in her quiet guttural—
有一天，卡德沃拉德夫人去弗雷希特履行她留下来过夜并给婴儿洗澡的诺言，她来吃饭，而校长则去钓鱼了。这是一个温暖的夜晚，即使在令人愉快的客厅里，那里的优良旧草皮从开着的窗户倾斜到开满百合的水池和精心种植的土丘，热量也足以让身穿白色平纹细布和浅色卷发的西莉亚反射出光彩。多多穿着黑色连衣裙，戴着小帽子，心里一定充满了怜悯。但这是直到一些与婴儿有关的事件结束，她的思绪变得闲暇时才发生的。她坐下来，拿起一把扇子，过了一会儿，才用她平静的喉音说道——

‘Dear Dodo, do throw off that cap. I am sure your dress must make you feel ill.’
“亲爱的渡渡鸟，请摘掉那顶帽子。我确信你的衣服一定让你感觉不舒服。

‘I am so used to the cap—it has become a sort of shell,’ said Dorothea, smiling. ‘I feel rather bare and exposed when it is off.’
“我已经习惯了这顶帽子——它已经变成了一种贝壳，”多萝西娅微笑着说道。 “当它关闭时，我感觉相当裸露和暴露。”

‘I must see you without it; it makes us all warm,’ said Celia, throwing down her fan, and going to Dorothea. It was a pretty picture to see this little lady in white muslin unfastening the widow’s cap from her more majestic sister, and tossing it on to a chair. Just as the coils and braids of dark-brown hair had been set free, Sir James entered the room. He looked at the released head, and said, ‘Ah!’ in a tone of satisfaction.
“我必须在没有它的情况下见到你； “这让我们都很温暖。”西莉亚一边说着，一边扔掉扇子，走向多萝西娅。看到这位穿着白色平纹细布的小女士从她更威严的姐姐身上解开寡妇帽，然后把它扔到椅子上，这是一幅美丽的画面。就在深棕色的发辫被解开时，詹姆斯爵士走进了房间。他看着被释放的头颅，满意地“啊！”了一声。

‘It was I who did it, James,’ said Celia. ‘Dodo need not make such a slavery of her mourning; she need not wear that cap any more among her friends.’
“是我干的，詹姆斯，”西莉亚说。 “多多不必让她的哀悼成为这样的奴隶；她不需要再在朋友面前戴那顶帽子了。

‘My dear Celia,’ said Lady Chettam, ‘a widow must wear her mourning at least a year.’
“我亲爱的西莉亚，”切塔姆夫人说，“寡妇必须服丧至少一年。”

‘Not if she marries again before the end of it,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, who had some pleasure in startling her good friend the Dowager. Sir James was annoyed, and leaned forward to play with Celia’s Maltese dog.
“如果她在这一切结束之前再次结婚就不会，”卡德瓦拉德夫人说，她很高兴能吓到她的好朋友太后。詹姆斯爵士很恼火，倾身与西莉亚的马尔济斯犬玩耍。

‘That is very rare, I hope,’ said Lady Chettam, in a tone intended to guard against such events. ‘No friend of ours ever committed herself in that way except Mrs. Beevor, and it was very painful to Lord Grinsell when she did so. Her first husband was objectionable, which made it the greater wonder. And severely she was punished for it. They said Captain Beevor dragged her about by the hair, and held up loaded pistols at her.’
“我希望这种情况非常罕见，”切塔姆女士说道，语气是为了防止此类事件的发生。 “除了比弗夫人之外，我们的朋友中没有人做过这样的事，当她这样做时，格林塞尔勋爵感到非常痛苦。她的第一任丈夫令人反感，这更令人惊奇。她也因此受到了严厉的惩罚。他们说比弗船长揪着她的头发拖来拖去，并向她举起上膛的手枪。

‘Oh, if she took the wrong man!’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, who was in a decidedly wicked mood. ‘Marriage is always bad then, first or second. Priority is a poor recommendation in a husband if he has got no other. I would rather have a good second husband than an indifferent first.’
“噢，如果她选错了人的话！”卡德瓦拉德夫人说，她的心情显然很糟糕。 “那么，婚姻总是糟糕的，无论是第一还是第二。如果丈夫没有其他选择，那么优先考虑对丈夫来说是一个糟糕的推荐。我宁愿有一个优秀的第二任丈夫，也不愿有一个冷漠的第一任丈夫。

‘My dear, your clever tongue runs away with you,’ said Lady Chettam. ‘I am sure you would be the last woman to marry again prematurely, if our dear Rector were taken away.’
“亲爱的，你那聪明的舌头已经跑掉了，”切塔姆夫人说。 “我确信，如果我们亲爱的教区长被带走，你将是最后一个过早结婚的女人。”

‘Oh, I make no vows; it might be a necessary economy. It is lawful to marry again, I suppose; else we might as well be Hindoos instead of Christians. Of course if a woman accepts the wrong man, she must take the consequences, and one who does it twice over deserves her fate. But if she can marry blood, beauty, and bravery— the sooner the better.’
‘哦，我没有发誓；这可能是一种必要的经济。我想，再婚是合法的。否则我们还不如做印度人而不是基督徒。当然，如果一个女人接受了错误的男人，她就必须承担后果，而再犯两次的人就该承受这样的命运。但如果她能嫁给血统、美丽和勇敢——越早越好。”

‘I think the subject of our conversation is very ill-chosen,’ said Sir James, with a look of disgust. ‘Suppose we change it.’
“我认为我们谈话的主题选得非常糟糕，”詹姆斯爵士一脸厌恶地说。 “假设我们改变它。”

‘Not on my account, Sir James,’ said Dorothea, determined not to lose the opportunity of freeing herself from certain oblique references to excellent matches. ‘If you are speaking on my behalf, I can assure you that no question can be more indifferent and impersonal to me than second marriage. It is no more to me than if you talked of women going fox-hunting: whether it is admirable in them or not, I shall not follow them. Pray let Mrs. Cadwallader amuse herself on that subject as much as on any other.’
“这不是为了我，詹姆斯爵士，”多萝西娅说道，她决心不失去这个机会，让自己摆脱某些间接提到精彩比赛的情况。 “如果你代表我发言，我可以向你保证，对我来说，没有什么问题比第二次婚姻更冷漠和客观了。”对我来说，这就像你谈论女人去猎狐一样：无论她们是否令人钦佩，我都不会跟随她们。请让卡德沃拉德夫人在这个话题上像在其他话题上一样自娱自乐。

‘My dear Mrs. Casaubon,’ said Lady Chettam, in her stateliest way, ‘you do not, I hope, think there was any allusion to you in my mentioning Mrs. Beevor. It was only an instance that occurred to me. She was step-daughter to Lord Grinsell: he married Mrs. Teveroy for his second wife. There could be no possible allusion to you.’
“我亲爱的卡苏朋夫人，”切塔姆夫人以她最庄严的方式说道，“我希望您不会认为我提到比弗夫人时有任何暗指您的意思。这只是我想到的一个例子。她是格林塞尔勋爵的继女：格林塞尔勋爵娶了特维罗伊夫人作为他的第二任妻子。不可能有暗指你的事。”

‘Oh no,’ said Celia. ‘Nobody chose the subject; it all came out of Dodo’s cap. Mrs. Cadwallader only said what was quite true. A woman could not be married in a widow’s cap, James.’
“哦，不，”西莉亚说。 “没有人选择这个主题；这一切都出自多多的帽子。卡德沃拉德夫人只说了实话。詹姆斯，女人不能戴着寡妇帽结婚。

‘Hush, my dear!’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘I will not offend again. I will not even refer to Dido or Zenobia. Only what are we to talk about? I, for my part, object to the discussion of Human Nature, because that is the nature of rectors’ wives.’
“嘘，亲爱的！”卡德沃拉德太太说。 ‘我不会再冒犯了。我什至不会提及 Dido 或 Zenobia。我们只讨论什么？就我而言，我反对讨论人性，因为那是校长妻子的本性。

Later in the evening, after Mrs. Cadwallader was gone, Celia said privately to Dorothea, ‘Really, Dodo, taking your cap off made you like yourself again in more ways than one. You spoke up just as you used to do, when anything was said to displease you. But I could hardly make out whether it was James that you thought wrong, or Mrs. Cadwallader.’
晚上晚些时候，卡德瓦拉德夫人离开后，西莉亚私下对多萝西娅说：“真的，多多，摘下帽子让你在很多方面重新喜欢自己。”当有人说任何让你不高兴的事情时，你就像以前一样大声说出来。但我很难弄清楚你认为错的是詹姆斯，还是卡德沃拉德夫人。

‘Neither,’ said Dorothea. ‘James spoke out of delicacy to me, but he was mistaken in supposing that I minded what Mrs. Cadwallader said. I should only mind if there were a law obliging me to take any piece of blood and beauty that she or anybody else recommended.’
“都不是，”多萝西娅说。 “詹姆斯对我说话是出于体贴，但他错误地认为我介意卡德瓦拉德夫人所说的话。我只应该介意是否有法律强制我接受她或其他人推荐的任何鲜血和美丽。

‘But you know, Dodo, if you ever did marry, it would be all the better to have blood and beauty,’ said Celia, reflecting that Mr. Casaubon had not been richly endowed with those gifts, and that it would be well to caution Dorothea in time.
“但是你知道，多多，如果你真的结婚了，拥有血统和美貌就更好了，”西莉亚说道，她反映卡苏邦先生并没有被赋予这些天赋，最好是及时提醒多萝西娅。

‘Don’t be anxious, Kitty; I have quite other thoughts about my life. I shall never marry again,’ said Dorothea, touching her sister’s chin, and looking at her with indulgent affection. Celia was nursing her baby, and Dorothea had come to say good-night to her.
“别着急，基蒂；我对自己的生活有完全不同的想法。 “我不会再结婚了。”多萝西娅摸着姐姐的下巴说道，一脸宠溺地看着她。西莉亚正在哺乳她的孩子，多萝西娅过来向她道晚安。

‘Really—quite?’ said Celia. ‘Not anybody at all—if he were very wonderful indeed?’
“真的——相当吗？”西莉亚说。 “根本不是任何人——如果他真的很棒的话？”

Dorothea shook her head slowly. ‘Not anybody at all. I have delightful plans. I should like to take a great deal of land, and drain it, and make a little colony, where everybody should work, and all the work should be done well. I should know every one of the people and be their friend. I am going to have great consultations with Mr. Garth: he can tell me almost everything I want to know.’
多萝西娅缓缓摇头。 '根本不是任何人。我有令人愉快的计划。我想拿一大片土地，把它排干，建立一个小殖民地，每个人都应该在那里工作，所有的工作都应该做好。我应该认识每一个人并成为他们的朋友。我将与加斯先生进行良好的协商：他几乎可以告诉我我想知道的一切。

‘Then you WILL be happy, if you have a plan, Dodo?’ said Celia. ‘Perhaps little Arthur will like plans when he grows up, and then he can help you.’
“那么，如果你有计划的话，你会很高兴的，渡渡鸟？”西莉亚说。 “也许小亚瑟长大后会喜欢计划，然后他就能帮助你。”

Sir James was informed that same night that Dorothea was really quite set against marrying anybody at all, and was going to take to ‘all sorts of plans,’ just like what she used to have. Sir James made no remark. To his secret feeling there was something repulsive in a woman’s second marriage, and no match would prevent him from feeling it a sort of desecration for Dorothea. He was aware that the world would regard such a sentiment as preposterous, especially in relation to a woman of one-and-twenty; the practice of ‘the world’ being to treat of a young widow’s second marriage as certain and probably near, and to smile with meaning if the widow acts accordingly. But if Dorothea did choose to espouse her solitude, he felt that the resolution would well become her.
当天晚上，詹姆斯爵士被告知，多萝西娅真的非常反对与任何人结婚，并且将采取“各种计划”，就像她以前那样。詹姆斯爵士没有发表任何评论。他暗自感觉，女人的第二次婚姻有些令人厌恶，没有什么可以阻止他觉得这是对多萝西娅的一种亵渎。他知道世人会认为这种观点是荒谬的，特别是对于一个一二十岁的女人来说； “世界”的做法是将年轻寡妇的第二次婚姻视为确定且可能即将到来，并且如果寡妇采取相应行动，则有意义地微笑。但如果多萝西娅确实选择了孤独，他觉得她很可能会做出决定。

CHAPTER LVI
第六章

‘How happy is he born and taught
‘他出生并受教是多么幸福

That serveth not another’s will;
这不符合他人的意愿；

Whose armor is his honest thought,
他的盔甲是他诚实的思想，

And simple truth his only skill!
简单的真理是他唯一的技能！

. . . . . . .
This man is freed from servile bands
这个人摆脱了奴役的束缚

Of hope to rise or fear to fall;
希望上升或害怕下降；

Lord of himself though not of lands;
尽管不是土地的主人，但他是自己的主人；

And having nothing yet hath all.’
还一无所有就拥有了一切。

—SIR HENRY WOTTON.
——亨利·沃顿爵士。

Dorothea’s confidence in Caleb Garth’s knowledge, which had begun on her hearing that he approved of her cottages, had grown fast during her stay at Freshitt, Sir James having induced her to take rides over the two estates in company with himself and Caleb, who quite returned her admiration, and told his wife that Mrs. Casaubon had a head for business most uncommon in a woman. It must be remembered that by ‘business’ Caleb never meant money transactions, but the skilful application of labor.
多萝西娅对凯莱布·加思的知识的信心始于她听说凯莱布·加思认可她的小屋，这种信心在她住在弗雷希特期间迅速增长，詹姆斯爵士诱使她与自己和凯莱布一起骑行穿过两个庄园，她也回报了她的钦佩，并告诉他的妻子，卡苏邦夫人有着女性中罕见的商业头脑。必须记住，迦勒所说的“生意”从来不是指金钱交易，而是指熟练地运用劳动。

‘Most uncommon!’ repeated Caleb. ‘She said a thing I often used to think myself when I was a lad:—‘Mr. Garth, I should like to feel, if I lived to be old, that I had improved a great piece of land and built a great many good cottages, because the work is of a healthy kind while it is being done, and after it is done, men are the better for it.’ Those were the very words: she sees into things in that way.’
“最不常见！”迦勒重复道。 “她说了一句我小时候经常想到的话：——‘先生。加思，如果我活到老，我会感觉自己已经改善了一大片土地，建造了很多漂亮的小屋，因为这项工作在完成时和完成后都是健康的。 “完成了，男人会变得更好。”这就是原话：她以这种方式看待事物。

‘But womanly, I hope,’ said Mrs. Garth, half suspecting that Mrs. Casaubon might not hold the true principle of subordination.
“但我希望有女人味，”加斯夫人说，她有点怀疑卡苏邦夫人可能不遵守真正的从属原则。

‘Oh, you can’t think!’ said Caleb, shaking his head. ‘You would like to hear her speak, Susan. She speaks in such plain words, and a voice like music. Bless me! it reminds me of bits in the ‘Messiah’—‘and straightway there appeared a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying;’ it has a tone with it that satisfies your ear.’
“哦，你无法思考！”凯莱布摇着头说道。 “你想听她说话，苏珊。她说起话来如此平实，声音如音乐一般。保佑我（宗教！这让我想起了《弥赛亚》中的片段——“立刻出现了一大群天军，赞美上帝并说道：”它的语气让你的耳朵感到满意。

Caleb was very fond of music, and when he could afford it went to hear an oratorio that came within his reach, returning from it with a profound reverence for this mighty structure of tones, which made him sit meditatively, looking on the floor and throwing much unutterable language into his outstretched hands.
迦勒非常喜欢音乐，当他有钱的时候，他会去听一场他力所能及的清唱剧，听完之后，他对这种强大的音调结构深表敬意，这让他沉思地坐着，看着地板，扔东西他伸出的手中有许多难以言说的语言。

With this good understanding between them, it was natural that Dorothea asked Mr. Garth to undertake any business connected with the three farms and the numerous tenements attached to Lowick Manor; indeed, his expectation of getting work for two was being fast fulfilled. As he said, ‘Business breeds.’ And one form of business which was beginning to breed just then was the construction of railways. A projected line was to run through Lowick parish where the cattle had hitherto grazed in a peace unbroken by astonishment; and thus it happened that the infant struggles of the railway system entered into the affairs of Caleb Garth, and determined the course of this history with regard to two persons who were dear to him. The submarine railway may have its difficulties; but the bed of the sea is not divided among various landed proprietors with claims for damages not only measurable but sentimental. In the hundred to which Middlemarch belonged railways were as exciting a topic as the Reform Bill or the imminent horrors of Cholera, and those who held the most decided views on the subject were women and landholders. Women both old and young regarded travelling by steam as presumptuous and dangerous, and argued against it by saying that nothing should induce them to get into a railway carriage; while proprietors, differing from each other in their arguments as much as Mr. Solomon Featherstone differed from Lord Medlicote, were yet unanimous in the opinion that in selling land, whether to the Enemy of mankind or to a company obliged to purchase, these pernicious agencies must be made to pay a very high price to landowners for permission to injure mankind.
有了这样的默契，多萝西娅自然而然地要求加斯先生承担与三个农场和洛威克庄园附属的众多房屋有关的任何业务。事实上，他想要为两个人找到一份工作的期望很快就实现了。正如他所说，“商业滋生。”当时开始滋生的一种商业形式就是铁路建设。一条预计的线路将穿过洛威克教区，那里的牛群迄今为止一直在和平中吃草，没有因惊讶而中断。就这样，铁路系统的初期斗争进入了迦勒·加斯的事务中，并决定了他所亲爱的两个人的这段历史的进程。海底铁路也有它的困难；但海底并没有被不同的土地所有者所瓜分，他们对损害的索赔不仅是可衡量的，而且是情感上的。在米德尔马奇所属的一百人中，铁路是一个与改革法案或迫在眉睫的霍乱恐怖一样令人兴奋的话题，而对这个话题持有最坚定观点的人是妇女和土地所有者。妇女们，无论老少，都认为乘蒸汽旅行是放肆和危险的行为，并反对这种做法，并表示没有任何东西可以诱使她们登上火车车厢；尽管业主们的论点各不相同，正如所罗门·费瑟斯通先生与梅德利科特勋爵的分歧一样，但他们仍然一致认为，在出售土地时，无论是向人类之敌还是向有义务购买的公司，这些有害的机构必须向土地所有者支付非常高的代价才能允许伤害人类。

But the slower wits, such as Mr. Solomon and Mrs. Waule, who both occupied land of their own, took a long time to arrive at this conclusion, their minds halting at the vivid conception of what it would be to cut the Big Pasture in two, and turn it into three-cornered bits, which would be ‘nohow;’ while accommodation-bridges and high payments were remote and incredible.
但头脑较慢的人，比如所罗门先生和沃勒夫人，都占有自己的土地，花了很长时间才得出这个结论，他们的头脑停在了关于砍伐大牧场的生动构想上。把它分成两半，然后把它变成三个角的部分，这将是“不可能的”；而住宿桥梁和高额付款是遥远而令人难以置信的。

‘The cows will all cast their calves, brother,’ said Mrs. Waule, in a tone of deep melancholy, ‘if the railway comes across the Near Close; and I shouldn’t wonder at the mare too, if she was in foal. It’s a poor tale if a widow’s property is to be spaded away, and the law say nothing to it. What’s to hinder ‘em from cutting right and left if they begin? It’s well known, I can’t fight.’
“兄弟，母牛们都会生下小牛，”沃勒太太用一种深沉忧郁的语气说道，“如果铁路穿过近岸；如果母马生了小马驹，我也不应该对她感到好奇。如果寡妇的财产被掠走，而法律对此没有任何规定，那就是一个糟糕的故事。如果他们开始的话，什么能阻止他们左右切入呢？众所周知，我无法战斗。

‘The best way would be to say nothing, and set somebody on to send ‘em away with a flea in their ear, when they came spying and measuring,’ said Solomon. ‘Folks did that about Brassing, by what I can understand. It’s all a pretence, if the truth was known, about their being forced to take one way. Let ‘em go cutting in another parish. And I don’t believe in any pay to make amends for bringing a lot of ruffians to trample your crops. Where’s a company’s pocket?’
所罗门说：“最好的办法就是什么也不说，当他们来监视和测量时，派人把耳朵里有跳蚤的人打发走。” “据我所知，人们对黄铜就是这么做的。”如果真相为人所知的话，这只是他们被迫走一条路的借口。让他们去另一个教区砍伐吧。我不相信任何报酬可以弥补带了很多恶棍践踏你们庄稼的行为。公司的口袋在哪里？

‘Brother Peter, God forgive him, got money out of a company,’ said Mrs. Waule. ‘But that was for the manganese. That wasn’t for railways to blow you to pieces right and left.’
“彼得兄弟，上帝原谅他，从一家公司拿了钱，”沃勒夫人说。 “但那是针对锰的。铁路不会把你从左到右炸成碎片。”

‘Well, there’s this to be said, Jane,’ Mr. Solomon concluded, lowering his voice in a cautious manner—‘the more spokes we put in their wheel, the more they’ll pay us to let ‘em go on, if they must come whether or not.’
“好吧，有一点要说，简，”所罗门先生总结道，谨慎地压低了声音——“我们在他们的车轮上放的辐条越多，他们就会付给我们更多的钱让他们继续前进，如果无论是否来，他们都必须来。

This reasoning of Mr. Solomon’s was perhaps less thorough than he imagined, his cunning bearing about the same relation to the course of railways as the cunning of a diplomatist bears to the general chill or catarrh of the solar system. But he set about acting on his views in a thoroughly diplomatic manner, by stimulating suspicion. His side of Lowick was the most remote from the village, and the houses of the laboring people were either lone cottages or were collected in a hamlet called Frick, where a water-mill and some stone-pits made a little centre of slow, heavy-shouldered industry.
所罗门先生的推理也许没有他想象的那么彻底，他的狡猾与铁路路线的关系就像外交官的狡猾与太阳系普遍寒冷或粘膜炎的关系一样。但他开始以一种彻底外交的方式通过激起怀疑来按照自己的观点行事。他所在的洛伊克一侧距离村庄最远，劳动人民的房屋要么是孤独的小屋，要么集中在一个叫弗里克的小村庄里，那里有一个水磨坊和一些石坑，成了缓慢而沉重的小中心。 ——肩负产业。

In the absence of any precise idea as to what railways were, public opinion in Frick was against them; for the human mind in that grassy corner had not the proverbial tendency to admire the unknown, holding rather that it was likely to be against the poor man, and that suspicion was the only wise attitude with regard to it. Even the rumor of Reform had not yet excited any millennial expectations in Frick, there being no definite promise in it, as of gratuitous grains to fatten Hiram Ford’s pig, or of a publican at the ‘Weights and Scales’ who would brew beer for nothing, or of an offer on the part of the three neighboring farmers to raise wages during winter. And without distinct good of this kind in its promises, Reform seemed on a footing with the bragging of pedlers, which was a hint for distrust to every knowing person. The men of Frick were not ill-fed, and were less given to fanaticism than to a strong muscular suspicion; less inclined to believe that they were peculiarly cared for by heaven, than to regard heaven itself as rather disposed to take them in— a disposition observable in the weather.
由于对铁路是什么缺乏任何确切的概念，弗里克的公众舆论反对铁路。因为那个草丛角落里的人类思想并不具有众所周知的欣赏未知事物的倾向，而是认为它可能会反对这个可怜的人，而怀疑是对此唯一明智的态度。就连改革的传言也没有激起弗里克千禧一代的期望，其中没有明确的承诺，比如免费提供谷物来养肥海勒姆·福特的猪，或者“体重秤”的酒馆老板免费酿造啤酒。 ，或者三个邻近农民提出在冬季提高工资的提议。由于改革的承诺中没有明显的好处，改革似乎与小贩的吹嘘站在一起，这对每个有识之士来说都是一种不信任的暗示。弗里克的人并不吃不饱，而且与其说是狂热，不如说是强烈的怀疑。他们不太愿意相信他们受到上天的特殊照顾，而是认为上天本身很愿意收留他们——这种倾向可以从天气中观察到。

Thus the mind of Frick was exactly of the sort for Mr. Solomon Featherstone to work upon, he having more plenteous ideas of the same order, with a suspicion of heaven and earth which was better fed and more entirely at leisure. Solomon was overseer of the roads at that time, and on his slow-paced cob often took his rounds by Frick to look at the workmen getting the stones there, pausing with a mysterious deliberation, which might have misled you into supposing that he had some other reason for staying than the mere want of impulse to move. After looking for a long while at any work that was going on, he would raise his eyes a little and look at the horizon; finally he would shake his bridle, touch his horse with the whip, and get it to move slowly onward. The hour-hand of a clock was quick by comparison with Mr. Solomon, who had an agreeable sense that he could afford to be slow. He was in the habit of pausing for a cautious, vaguely designing chat with every hedger or ditcher on his way, and was especially willing to listen even to news which he had heard before, feeling himself at an advantage over all narrators in partially disbelieving them. One day, however, he got into a dialogue with Hiram Ford, a wagoner, in which he himself contributed information. He wished to know whether Hiram had seen fellows with staves and instruments spying about: they called themselves railroad people, but there was no telling what they were or what they meant to do. The least they pretended was that they were going to cut Lowick Parish into sixes and sevens.
因此，弗里克的思想正是所罗门·费瑟斯通先生所要研究的那种思想，他有更多同样的想法，对天地有更好的喂养和更完全的闲暇的怀疑。所罗门当时是道路的监督者，他骑着慢节奏的小马车经常在弗里克旁边巡视，看看工人们正在把石头搬到那里，他带着一种神秘的深思熟虑停下来，这可能会误导你以为他有一些东西。除了想要搬家之外，还有其他留下来的原因。在对正在进行的任何工作看了很长时间之后，他会稍微抬起眼睛，看看地平线；最后他会摇动缰绳，用鞭子碰一下马，让它慢慢前行。与所罗门先生相比，时钟的时针很快，他有一种愉快的感觉，他可以承受慢一些的时间。他习惯于停下来与路上的每一个套期保值者或挖沟者进行谨慎的、含糊的设计聊天，甚至特别愿意听他以前听过的新闻，感觉自己比所有叙述者都有优势，因为他部分地不相信他们。然而有一天，他与一位马车夫海勒姆·福特进行了对话，他自己在对话中提供了信息。他想知道海勒姆是否见过拿着棍棒和仪器的人在监视：他们自称铁路人，但不知道他们是什么人，也不知道他们打算做什么。他们至少假装要把洛威克教区打得七零八落。

‘Why, there’ll be no stirrin’ from one pla-ace to another,’ said Hiram, thinking of his wagon and horses.
“哎呀，不会有从一个地方到另一个地方的骚动了，”海勒姆说，想着他的马车和马匹。

‘Not a bit,’ said Mr. Solomon. ‘And cutting up fine land such as this parish! Let ‘em go into Tipton, say I. But there’s no knowing what there is at the bottom of it. Traffic is what they put for’ard; but it’s to do harm to the land and the poor man in the long-run.’
“一点也不，”所罗门先生说。 ‘并砍伐像这个教区这样的好土地！我说，让他们进入蒂普顿。但不知道它的底部是什么。他们所追求的就是交通；但从长远来看，这会对土地和穷人造成伤害。”

‘Why, they’re Lunnon chaps, I reckon,’ said Hiram, who had a dim notion of London as a centre of hostility to the country.
“哎呀，我猜他们是伦农的小伙子，”海勒姆说，他对伦敦作为敌对国家的中心有一种模糊的认识。

‘Ay, to be sure. And in some parts against Brassing, by what I’ve heard say, the folks fell on ‘em when they were spying, and broke their peep-holes as they carry, and drove ‘em away, so as they knew better than come again.’
是的，当然。据我所知，在反对布拉辛的某些地方，人们在他们进行间谍活动时袭击了他们，并在他们携带时打破了他们的窥视孔，并将他们赶走了，所以他们知道最好不要再来了.'

‘It war good foon, I’d be bound,’ said Hiram, whose fun was much restricted by circumstances.
“这真是太有趣了，我会被束缚的，”海勒姆说，他的乐趣很大程度上受到环境的限制。

‘Well, I wouldn’t meddle with ‘em myself,’ said Solomon. ‘But some say this country’s seen its best days, and the sign is, as it’s being overrun with these fellows trampling right and left, and wanting to cut it up into railways; and all for the big traffic to swallow up the little, so as there shan’t be a team left on the land, nor a whip to crack.’
“好吧，我自己不会干涉他们，”所罗门说。 “但有人说这个国家已经度过了最好的时光，迹象就是，这些人左右蹂躏，想要把它切成铁路；一切都是为了大交通吞没小交通，这样地上就没有队伍了，也没有鞭子可以打了。

‘I’ll crack MY whip about their ear’n, afore they bring it to that, though,’ said Hiram, while Mr. Solomon, shaking his bridle, moved onward.
“不过，在他们动手之前，我会用我的鞭子抽打他们的耳朵。”海勒姆说道，而所罗门先生则摇晃着缰绳，继续前行。

Nettle-seed needs no digging. The ruin of this countryside by railroads was discussed, not only at the ‘Weights and Scales,’ but in the hay-field, where the muster of working hands gave opportunities for talk such as were rarely had through the rural year.
荨麻种子无需挖掘。人们不仅在“重量和秤”上讨论了铁路对这个乡村的破坏，而且还在干草场上进行了讨论，那里的劳作者聚集在一起，提供了在农村一年中很少有的谈话机会。

One morning, not long after that interview between Mr. Farebrother and Mary Garth, in which she confessed to him her feeling for Fred Vincy, it happened that her father had some business which took him to Yoddrell’s farm in the direction of Frick: it was to measure and value an outlying piece of land belonging to Lowick Manor, which Caleb expected to dispose of advantageously for Dorothea (it must be confessed that his bias was towards getting the best possible terms from railroad companies). He put up his gig at Yoddrell’s, and in walking with his assistant and measuring-chain to the scene of his work, he encountered the party of the company’s agents, who were adjusting their spirit-level. After a little chat he left them, observing that by-and-by they would reach him again where he was going to measure. It was one of those gray mornings after light rains, which become delicious about twelve o’clock, when the clouds part a little, and the scent of the earth is sweet along the lanes and by the hedgerows.
一天早上，就在费雷布拉泽先生和玛丽·加思会面后不久，玛丽·加思向他坦白了她对弗雷德·文西的感情，碰巧她父亲有事要办，把他带到了弗里克方向的约德雷尔农场：测量和估价属于洛威克庄园的一块边远土地，凯勒布希望将其出售给多萝西娅（必须承认，他的偏见是从铁路公司获得尽可能最好的条件）。他在约德雷尔店安顿了自己的演出，在助手和测量链前往工作现场的途中，他遇到了正在调整精神高度的公司代理人。聊了一会儿之后，他离开了他们，观察着他们很快就会再次到达他要测量的地方。那是小雨过后的灰蒙蒙的早晨之一，十二点左右，天气变得美妙起来，云层稍稍散开，小巷和树篱旁弥漫着大地的芬芳。

The scent would have been sweeter to Fred Vincy, who was coming along the lanes on horseback, if his mind had not been worried by unsuccessful efforts to imagine what he was to do, with his father on one side expecting him straightway to enter the Church, with Mary on the other threatening to forsake him if he did enter it, and with the working-day world showing no eager need whatever of a young gentleman without capital and generally unskilled. It was the harder to Fred’s disposition because his father, satisfied that he was no longer rebellious, was in good humor with him, and had sent him on this pleasant ride to see after some greyhounds. Even when he had fixed on what he should do, there would be the task of telling his father. But it must be admitted that the fixing, which had to come first, was the more difficult task:—what secular avocation on earth was there for a young man (whose friends could not get him an ‘appointment’) which was at once gentlemanly, lucrative, and to be followed without special knowledge? Riding along the lanes by Frick in this mood, and slackening his pace while he reflected whether he should venture to go round by Lowick Parsonage to call on Mary, he could see over the hedges from one field to another. Suddenly a noise roused his attention, and on the far side of a field on his left hand he could see six or seven men in smock-frocks with hay-forks in their hands making an offensive approach towards the four railway agents who were facing them, while Caleb Garth and his assistant were hastening across the field to join the threatened group. Fred, delayed a few moments by having to find the gate, could not gallop up to the spot before the party in smock-frocks, whose work of turning the hay had not been too pressing after swallowing their mid-day beer, were driving the men in coats before them with their hay-forks; while Caleb Garth’s assistant, a lad of seventeen, who had snatched up the spirit-level at Caleb’s order, had been knocked down and seemed to be lying helpless. The coated men had the advantage as runners, and Fred covered their retreat by getting in front of the smock-frocks and charging them suddenly enough to throw their chase into confusion. ‘What do you confounded fools mean?’ shouted Fred, pursuing the divided group in a zigzag, and cutting right and left with his whip. ‘I’ll swear to every one of you before the magistrate. You’ve knocked the lad down and killed him, for what I know. You’ll every one of you be hanged at the next assizes, if you don’t mind,’ said Fred, who afterwards laughed heartily as he remembered his own phrases.
弗莱德·文西骑马沿着小巷走来，如果他的心没有因为无法想象自己要做什么而担心的话，这种气味对他来说会更甜，而他的父亲在一侧期待他立即进入教堂玛丽则威胁说，如果他真的进入这个行业，就会抛弃他，而且工作日的世界并不急需一位没有资本且普遍缺乏技能的年轻绅士。这对弗雷德的性情来说更加困难，因为他的父亲对他不再叛逆感到满意，对他态度很好，并派他踏上这次愉快的旅程，去照顾一些灰狗。即使他已经决定了自己应该做什么，也要告诉他的父亲。但必须承认，首先必须解决的问题是更困难的任务：对于一个年轻人来说，到底有什么世俗的爱好（他的朋友们无法为他安排一个“约会”），而且既具有绅士风度，又具有绅士风度呢？ ，利润丰厚，并且不需要专业知识就可以遵循？带着这种心情沿着弗里克旁边的小巷骑行，一边放慢脚步，一边思考是否应该冒险绕过洛威克牧师府去拜访玛丽，他可以越过树篱从一片田地看到另一片田地。突然，一声响动引起了他的注意，在他左手边的田野里，有六七个人穿着罩衫，手里拿着干草叉，正向对面的四个铁路工作人员进攻。 ，而凯莱布·加斯和他的助手正匆匆穿过田野，加入受威胁的队伍。 弗雷德因为要找到大门而耽搁了一会儿，无法在穿着工作服的聚会之前赶到现场，他们在吞下中午的啤酒后翻干草的工作并不太紧迫，正在驾驶着穿着外套的男人们在他们面前拿着干草叉；而迦勒·加斯的助手，一个十七岁的小伙子，按照迦勒的命令抓起了水平仪，却被击倒在地，似乎无助地躺着。穿大衣的人在奔跑方面有优势，弗雷德冲到穿着罩衫的人前面，突然冲向他们，使他们的追逐陷入混乱，以此掩护他们的撤退。 “你们这群混蛋到底是什么意思？”弗雷德喊道，一边追着这群分成之字形的人，一边用鞭子左右砍击。 “我将在地方法官面前向你们每一个人宣誓。据我所知，你击倒了那个小伙子并杀死了他。如果你们不介意的话，你们每个人都会在下次巡回审判时被绞死。”弗雷德说道，随后他想起了自己的话，哈哈大笑起来。

The laborers had been driven through the gate-way into their hay-field, and Fred had checked his horse, when Hiram Ford, observing himself at a safe challenging distance, turned back and shouted a defiance which he did not know to be Homeric.
工人们被赶着穿过大门进入他们的干草场，弗雷德检查了他的马，当海勒姆·福特发现自己处于一个安全的挑战距离时，他转身喊出了一声反抗，他不知道那是荷马式的。

‘Yo’re a coward, yo are. Yo git off your horse, young measter, and I’ll have a round wi’ ye, I wull. Yo daredn’t come on wi’out your hoss an’ whip. I’d soon knock the breath out on ye, I would.’
‘你是个胆小鬼，是的。你下马吧，年轻的教士，我来和你打一场，我愿意。没有你的马和鞭子，你不敢上来。我很快就会让你喘不过气来，我会的。

‘Wait a minute, and I’ll come back presently, and have a round with you all in turn, if you like,’ said Fred, who felt confidence in his power of boxing with his dearly beloved brethren. But just now he wanted to hasten back to Caleb and the prostrate youth.
“等一下，如果你们愿意的话，我马上就回来，和你们大家打一轮，”弗雷德说，他对自己与心爱的兄弟们的拳击能力充满信心。但现在他想赶紧回到迦勒和那个跪倒在地的年轻人身边。

The lad’s ankle was strained, and he was in much pain from it, but he was no further hurt, and Fred placed him on the horse that he might ride to Yoddrell’s and be taken care of there.
小伙子的脚踝拉伤了，他非常痛苦，但他没有再受伤，弗雷德把他放在马上，这样他就可以骑马去约德雷尔家并在那里得到照顾。

‘Let them put the horse in the stable, and tell the surveyors they can come back for their traps,’ said Fred. ‘The ground is clear now.’
“让他们把马放进马厩，然后告诉测量员他们可以回来取陷阱，”弗雷德说。 “现在地面已经干净了。”

‘No, no,’ said Caleb, ‘here’s a breakage. They’ll have to give up for to-day, and it will be as well. Here, take the things before you on the horse, Tom. They’ll see you coming, and they’ll turn back.’
“不，不，”迦勒说，“这里有破损。”他们今天必须放弃，而且也将如此。汤姆，把你面前的东西拿上马。他们会看到你来，然后就会回头。

‘I’m glad I happened to be here at the right moment, Mr. Garth,’ said Fred, as Tom rode away. ‘No knowing what might have happened if the cavalry had not come up in time.’
“我很高兴我来得正是时候，加斯先生，”汤姆骑马离开时弗雷德说道。 “如果骑兵没有及时赶来，不知道会发生什么。”

‘Ay, ay, it was lucky,’ said Caleb, speaking rather absently, and looking towards the spot where he had been at work at the moment of interruption. ‘But—deuce take it—this is what comes of men being fools—I’m hindered of my day’s work. I can’t get along without somebody to help me with the measuring-chain. However!’ He was beginning to move towards the spot with a look of vexation, as if he had forgotten Fred’s presence, but suddenly he turned round and said quickly, ‘What have you got to do to-day, young fellow?’
“哎呀，哎呀，真幸运，”凯莱布心不在焉地说，同时看着被打扰时他正在工作的地方。 “但是——请接受吧——这就是人类愚蠢的后果——我一天的工作受到了阻碍。如果没有人帮助我测量链，我就无法相处。然而！”他一脸懊恼地朝那个地方走去，仿佛忘记了弗雷德的存在，但突然他转过身来，急忙说道：“年轻人，你今天要做什么？”

‘Nothing, Mr. Garth. I’ll help you with pleasure—can I?’ said Fred, with a sense that he should be courting Mary when he was helping her father.
“没什么，加斯先生。我很乐意帮助你——可以吗？”弗雷德说，他觉得自己在帮助玛丽的父亲时应该向玛丽求爱。

‘Well, you mustn’t mind stooping and getting hot.’
“好吧，你不必介意弯腰受热。”

‘I don’t mind anything. Only I want to go first and have a round with that hulky fellow who turned to challenge me. It would be a good lesson for him. I shall not be five minutes.’
‘我什么都不介意。只是我想先去和那个向我挑战的大汉打一场。这对他来说将是一个很好的教训。我不会花五分钟的。

‘Nonsense!’ said Caleb, with his most peremptory intonation. ‘I shall go and speak to the men myself. It’s all ignorance. Somebody has been telling them lies. The poor fools don’t know any better.’
“胡说八道！”迦勒用他最专横的语气说道。 “我要亲自去和那些人谈谈。这都是无知。有人一直在对他们撒谎。这些可怜的傻瓜不知道更多。

‘I shall go with you, then,’ said Fred.
“那么我就和你一起去，”弗雷德说。

‘No, no; stay where you are. I don’t want your young blood. I can take care of myself.’
'不，不;保持你原有位置。我不要你的年轻血液。我可以照顾自己。

Caleb was a powerful man and knew little of any fear except the fear of hurting others and the fear of having to speechify. But he felt it his duty at this moment to try and give a little harangue. There was a striking mixture in him—which came from his having always been a hard-working man himself—of rigorous notions about workmen and practical indulgence towards them. To do a good day’s work and to do it well, he held to be part of their welfare, as it was the chief part of his own happiness; but he had a strong sense of fellowship with them. When he advanced towards the laborers they had not gone to work again, but were standing in that form of rural grouping which consists in each turning a shoulder towards the other, at a distance of two or three yards. They looked rather sulkily at Caleb, who walked quickly with one hand in his pocket and the other thrust between the buttons of his waistcoat, and had his every-day mild air when he paused among them.
迦勒是一个有权有势的人，除了害怕伤害他人和害怕发表演讲之外，他几乎不知道任何恐惧。但他觉得此时此刻他有责任尝试发表一点长篇大论。他身上有一种惊人的混合体——这源于他本人一直是一个勤奋的人——对工人的严格观念和对工人的实际宽容。他认为，做好一天的工作并把它做好，是他们幸福的一部分，就像他自己幸福的主要部分一样。但他与他们有强烈的团契感。当他向工人们走去时，他们并没有再去干活，而是以乡村的形式站在一起，每个人都将肩膀转向对方，相距两三码。他们阴沉地看着凯莱布，凯勒走得很快，一只手插在口袋里，另一只手插在背心的纽扣之间，当他在他们中间停下来时，他表现出日常温和的神情。

‘Why, my lads, how’s this?’ he began, taking as usual to brief phrases, which seemed pregnant to himself, because he had many thoughts lying under them, like the abundant roots of a plant that just manages to peep above the water. ‘How came you to make such a mistake as this? Somebody has been telling you lies. You thought those men up there wanted to do mischief.’
“为什么，我的小伙子们，这是怎么回事？”他像往常一样开始说一些简短的短语，这些短语对他来说似乎很有意义，因为他有很多想法隐藏在它们下面，就像一株植物的茂盛的根部刚刚露出水面。 。 ‘你怎么会犯这样的错误呢？有人一直在对你撒谎。你以为上面那些人想要恶作剧。”

‘Aw!’ was the answer, dropped at intervals by each according to his degree of unreadiness.
“噢！”是答案，根据每个人不准备的程度，每隔一段时间就会回答一次。

‘Nonsense! No such thing! They’re looking out to see which way the railroad is to take. Now, my lads, you can’t hinder the railroad: it will be made whether you like it or not. And if you go fighting against it, you’ll get yourselves into trouble. The law gives those men leave to come here on the land. The owner has nothing to say against it, and if you meddle with them you’ll have to do with the constable and Justice Blakesley, and with the handcuffs and Middlemarch jail. And you might be in for it now, if anybody informed against you.’
'废话！没有这样的事！他们正在观察铁路的走向。现在，我的小伙子们，你们不能阻碍铁路的建设：无论你们喜欢与否，它都会建成。如果你去对抗它，你就会给自己带来麻烦。法律允许这些人来到这片土地上。店主没有什么可反对的，如果你干涉他们，你将不得不与警察和布莱克斯利法官，以及手铐和米德尔马奇监狱有关。如果有人举报你，你现在可能会陷入困境。

Caleb paused here, and perhaps the greatest orator could not have chosen either his pause or his images better for the occasion.
迦勒在这里停了下来，也许最伟大的演说家也无法选择他的停顿或他的形象更适合这个场合。

‘But come, you didn’t mean any harm. Somebody told you the railroad was a bad thing. That was a lie. It may do a bit of harm here and there, to this and to that; and so does the sun in heaven. But the railway’s a good thing.’
“但是来吧，你并没有任何恶意。有人告诉过你铁路是一件坏事。那是一个谎言。它可能会在这里、那里、对这个、对那个造成一点伤害；天上的太阳也是如此。但铁路是个好东西。”

‘Aw! good for the big folks to make money out on,’ said old Timothy Cooper, who had stayed behind turning his hay while the others had been gone on their spree;—‘I’n seen lots o’ things turn up sin’ I war a young un—the war an’ the peace, and the canells, an’ the oald King George, an’ the Regen’, an’ the new King George, an’ the new un as has got a new ne-ame—an’ it’s been all aloike to the poor mon. What’s the canells been t’ him? They’n brought him neyther me-at nor be-acon, nor wage to lay by, if he didn’t save it wi’ clemmin’ his own inside. Times ha’ got wusser for him sin’ I war a young un. An’ so it’ll be wi’ the railroads. They’ll on’y leave the poor mon furder behind. But them are fools as meddle, and so I told the chaps here. This is the big folks’s world, this is. But yo’re for the big folks, Muster Garth, yo are.’
‘噢！老蒂莫西·库珀说，当其他人都在狂欢时，他留下来翻干草；“我见过很多事情发生在战争中”一个年轻的联合国——战争与和平，卡内尔家族，老乔治国王，摄政王，新乔治国王，新的联合国有了一个新的名字—— ’这一切都与可怜的家伙相似。他怎么了？如果他不把自己的内心拯救出来，他们既不会给他带来我，也不会给他带来信标，也不会给他带来停留的工资。因为我和一个年轻人打架，他有时会发出呜咽声。铁路也是如此。他们只会把这个可怜的家伙抛在身后。但他们都是傻瓜，爱管闲事，所以我告诉了这里的伙计们。这就是大人们的世界，这就是。但你是为了大人物，穆斯特·加斯，你是。

Timothy was a wiry old laborer, of a type lingering in those times— who had his savings in a stocking-foot, lived in a lone cottage, and was not to be wrought on by any oratory, having as little of the feudal spirit, and believing as little, as if he had not been totally unacquainted with the Age of Reason and the Rights of Man. Caleb was in a difficulty known to any person attempting in dark times and unassisted by miracle to reason with rustics who are in possession of an undeniable truth which they know through a hard process of feeling, and can let it fall like a giant’s club on your neatly carved argument for a social benefit which they do not feel. Caleb had no cant at command, even if he could have chosen to use it; and he had been accustomed to meet all such difficulties in no other way than by doing his ‘business’ faithfully. He answered—
蒂莫西是一位身材瘦长的老工人，属于那个时代的那种人——他的积蓄都放在袜子里，住在一座孤独的小屋里，没有任何封建精神，不受任何演讲的影响，他也不太相信，就好像他并非完全不熟悉理性时代和人权一样。迦勒遇到了任何一个在黑暗时期尝试与乡下人讲道理的人都知道的困难，他们没有奇迹的帮助，他们拥有不可否认的真理，他们通过艰难的感觉过程知道了这一点，并且可以让它像巨人的棍棒一样落在你的身上。精心雕琢的论点是为了他们感觉不到的社会利益。迦勒在指挥方面没有任何技巧，即使他可以选择使用它；他习惯于通过忠实地做他的“生意”来应对所有这些困难。他回答说——

‘If you don’t think well of me, Tim, never mind; that’s neither here nor there now. Things may be bad for the poor man—bad they are; but I want the lads here not to do what will make things worse for themselves. The cattle may have a heavy load, but it won’t help ‘em to throw it over into the roadside pit, when it’s partly their own fodder.’
“如果你对我评价不好，蒂姆，没关系；现在既不在这里也不在那里。对于穷人来说，事情可能很糟糕——事实确实很糟糕；但我希望这里的小伙子们不要做那些会让事情变得更糟的事情。牛可能负重很重，但把它们扔进路边的坑里并没有什么帮助，因为这部分是它们自己的饲料。”

‘We war on’y for a bit o’ foon,’ said Hiram, who was beginning to see consequences. ‘That war all we war arter.’
“我们为了一点乐趣而战，”海勒姆说，他开始看到后果。 “那场战争是我们共同的战争。”

‘Well, promise me not to meddle again, and I’ll see that nobody informs against you.’
“好吧，答应我不要再插手，我会确保没有人告发你。”

‘I’n ne’er meddled, an’ I’n no call to promise,’ said Timothy.
“我从不插手，我也不会打电话做出承诺，”蒂莫西说。

‘No, but the rest. Come, I’m as hard at work as any of you to-day, and I can’t spare much time. Say you’ll be quiet without the constable.’
‘不，但是其余的。来吧，我今天和你们一样努力工作，抽不出多少时间。假设没有警察，你就保持安静。

‘Aw, we wooant meddle—they may do as they loike for oos’— were the forms in which Caleb got his pledges; and then he hastened back to Fred, who had followed him, and watched him in the gateway.
“噢，我们希望插手——他们可以为所欲为”——这是迦勒得到承诺的形式。然后他赶紧回到跟随他的弗雷德身边，在门口看着他。

They went to work, and Fred helped vigorously. His spirits had risen, and he heartily enjoyed a good slip in the moist earth under the hedgerow, which soiled his perfect summer trousers. Was it his successful onset which had elated him, or the satisfaction of helping Mary’s father? Something more. The accidents of the morning had helped his frustrated imagination to shape an employment for himself which had several attractions. I am not sure that certain fibres in Mr. Garth’s mind had not resumed their old vibration towards the very end which now revealed itself to Fred. For the effective accident is but the touch of fire where there is oil and tow; and it al ways appeared to Fred that the railway brought the needed touch. But they went on in silence except when their business demanded speech. At last, when they had finished and were walking away, Mr. Garth said—
他们去上班了，弗雷德大力帮忙。他的精神振奋起来，他尽情享受在树篱下潮湿的泥土中滑行的乐趣，树篱弄脏了他完美的夏季裤子。让他高兴的是他的成功发作，还是帮助玛丽的父亲的满足感？更多的东西。早上的意外事件帮助他受挫的想象力为自己塑造了一份有几个吸引力的工作。我不确定加斯先生头脑中的某些纤维是否在即将向弗雷德展示自己的最后时刻恢复了原来的振动。因为有效的事故只不过是有油和拖车的地方着火；弗雷德总觉得铁路带来了必要的接触。但他们默默地继续着，除非他们有事需要讲话。最后，当他们结束并走开时，加斯先生说——

‘A young fellow needn’t be a B. A. to do this sort of work, eh, Fred?’
“年轻人不一定是学士学位才能做这种工作，是吧，弗雷德？”

‘I wish I had taken to it before I had thought of being a B. A.,’ said Fred. He paused a moment, and then added, more hesitatingly, ‘Do you think I am too old to learn your business, Mr. Garth?’
弗雷德说：“我希望在我想成为一名文学学士学位之前就已经开始学习它了。”他停顿了一下，然后更加犹豫地补充道：“加思先生，你认为我太老了，无法学习你的生意吗？”

‘My business is of many sorts, my boy,’ said Mr. Garth, smiling. ‘A good deal of what I know can only come from experience: you can’t learn it off as you learn things out of a book. But you are young enough to lay a foundation yet.’ Caleb pronounced the last sentence emphatically, but paused in some uncertainty. He had been under the impression lately that Fred had made up his mind to enter the Church.
“我的生意有很多，我的孩子，”加斯先生微笑着说道。 “我所知道的很多东西只能来自经验：你无法像从书本上学习东西一样学到它。但你还年轻，还可以打基础。”凯勒布强调地念出了最后一句话，但又有些不确定地停了下来。最近他一直有一种印象，弗雷德已经下定决心要进入教堂了。

‘You do think I could do some good at it, if I were to try?’ said Fred, more eagerly.
“你认为如果我尝试的话，我能做一些好事吗？”弗雷德更加热切地说。

‘That depends,’ said Caleb, turning his head on one side and lowering his voice, with the air of a man who felt himself to be saying something deeply religious. ‘You must be sure of two things: you must love your work, and not be always looking over the edge of it, wanting your play to begin. And the other is, you must not be ashamed of your work, and think it would be more honorable to you to be doing something else. You must have a pride in your own work and in learning to do it well, and not be always saying, There’s this and there’s that—if I had this or that to do, I might make something of it. No matter what a man is—I wouldn’t give twopence for him’— here Caleb’s mouth looked bitter, and he snapped his fingers— ‘whether he was the prime minister or the rick-thatcher, if he didn’t do well what he undertook to do.’
“这要看情况，”凯莱布说，他把头转向一边，压低了声音，神态就像是在说一些深具宗教色彩的事情。 “你必须确定两件事：你必须热爱你的工作，而不是总是越过它的边缘，希望你的游戏开始。另一个是，你不能为你的工作感到羞耻，并认为做其他事情对你来说更光荣。你必须对自己的工作以及学会把它做好而感到自豪，而不是总是说，有这个，有那个——如果我有这个或那个要做，我可能会有所作为。不管一个人是什么——我不会为他付出两便士”——此时凯莱布的嘴角显得苦涩，他打了个响指——“无论他是首相还是里克·撒切尔，如果他做得不好怎么办？”他承诺这样做。

‘I can never feel that I should do that in being a clergyman,’ said Fred, meaning to take a step in argument.
“我从来不觉得作为一名牧师我应该这样做，”弗雷德说，打算进一步争论。

‘Then let it alone, my boy,’ said Caleb, abruptly, ‘else you’ll never be easy. Or, if you ARE easy, you’ll be a poor stick.’
“那就别管它了，我的孩子，”凯莱布突然说道，“否则你永远不会轻松。”或者，如果你很容易，你就会成为一根可怜的棍子。

‘That is very nearly what Mary thinks about it,’ said Fred, coloring. ‘I think you must know what I feel for Mary, Mr. Garth: I hope it does not displease you that I have always loved her better than any one else, and that I shall never love any one as I love her.’
“这几乎就是玛丽的想法，”弗雷德红着脸说道。 “我想你一定知道我对玛丽的感受，加斯先生：我希望你不会不高兴，因为我一直比任何人都爱她，而且我永远不会像爱她那样爱任何人。”

The expression of Caleb’s face was visibly softening while Fred spoke. But he swung his head with a solemn slowness, and said—
弗雷德说话时，迦勒的表情明显柔和了。但他庄严地缓慢地摇摇头，说道——

‘That makes things more serious, Fred, if you want to take Mary’s happiness into your keeping.’
“弗雷德，如果你想守护玛丽的幸福，那就让事情变得更严重了。”

‘I know that, Mr. Garth,’ said Fred, eagerly, ‘and I would do anything for HER. She says she will never have me if I go into the Church; and I shall be the most miserable devil in the world if I lose all hope of Mary. Really, if I could get some other profession, business— anything that I am at all fit for, I would work hard, I would deserve your good opinion. I should like to have to do with outdoor things. I know a good deal about land and cattle already. I used to believe, you know—though you will think me rather foolish for it—that I should have land of my own. I am sure knowledge of that sort would come easily to me, especially if I could be under you in any way.’
“我知道，加斯先生，”弗雷德急切地说，“我愿意为她做任何事。她说如果我去教堂她就永远不会拥有我；如果我对玛丽失去了所有的希望，我将成为世界上最悲惨的魔鬼。真的，如果我能找到其他的职业、生意——任何我适合做的事情，我都会努力工作，我值得你的好意见。我喜欢从事户外活动。我已经对土地和牲畜有了很多了解。你知道，我曾经相信——尽管你会认为我很愚蠢——我应该拥有自己的土地。我确信这类知识对我来说很容易获得，特别是如果我能以任何方式在你的领导下的话。

‘Softly, my boy,’ said Caleb, having the image of ‘Susan’ before his eyes. ‘What have you said to your father about all this?’
“轻声点，我的孩子，”迦勒说道，眼前浮现出“苏珊”的形象。 “关于这一切，你对你父亲说了些什么？”

‘Nothing, yet; but I must tell him. I am only waiting to know what I can do instead of entering the Church. I am very sorry to disappoint him, but a man ought to be allowed to judge for himself when he is four-and-twenty. How could I know when I was fifteen, what it would be right for me to do now? My education was a mistake.’
'还没有;但我必须告诉他。我只是等待知道我能做什么而不是进入教堂。我很抱歉让他失望了，但是一个人在四岁和二十岁的时候应该被允许自己做出判断。我十五岁的时候怎么知道现在该做什么？我的教育是一个错误。

‘But hearken to this, Fred,’ said Caleb. ‘Are you sure Mary is fond of you, or would ever have you?’
“但是听着，弗雷德，”迦勒说。 “你确定玛丽喜欢你，或者会喜欢你吗？”

‘I asked Mr. Farebrother to talk to her, because she had forbidden me— I didn’t know what else to do,’ said Fred, apologetically. ‘And he says that I have every reason to hope, if I can put myself in an honorable position—I mean, out of the Church I dare say you think it unwarrantable in me, Mr. Garth, to be troubling you and obtruding my own wishes about Mary, before I have done anything at all for myself. Of course I have not the least claim—indeed, I have already a debt to you which will never be discharged, even when I have been, able to pay it in the shape of money.’
“我请费雷布拉泽先生和她说话，因为她禁止我——我不知道还能做什么，”弗雷德抱歉地说。 “他说，我有充分的理由希望，如果我能让自己处于一个光荣的位置——我的意思是，在教会之外，我敢说，你认为我没有理由，加思先生，打扰你并妨碍我的工作。”在我为自己做任何事情之前，我对玛丽有自己的愿望。当然，我没有丝毫要求——事实上，我已经欠你一笔债了，即使我能够以金钱的形式偿还，我也永远无法偿还。

‘Yes, my boy, you have a claim,’ said Caleb, with much feeling in his voice. ‘The young ones have always a claim on the old to help them forward. I was young myself once and had to do without much help; but help would have been welcome to me, if it had been only for the fellow-feeling’s sake. But I must consider. Come to me to-morrow at the office, at nine o’clock. At the office, mind.’
“是的，我的孩子，你有一个主张，”凯莱布说道，他的声音充满感情。 “年轻人总是要求老年人帮助他们前进。我自己也曾年轻过，没有太多帮助。但如果只是出于同情心，我会欢迎帮助。但我必须考虑。明天九点到办公室来找我。请注意，在办公室。

Mr. Garth would take no important step without consulting Susan, but it must be confessed that before he reached home he had taken his resolution. With regard to a large number of matters about which other men are decided or obstinate, he was the most easily manageable man in the world. He never knew what meat he would choose, and if Susan had said that they ought to live in a four-roomed cottage, in order to save, he would have said, ‘Let us go,’ without inquiring into details. But where Caleb’s feeling and judgment strongly pronounced, he was a ruler; and in spite of his mildness and timidity in reproving, every one about him knew that on the exceptional occasions when he chose, he was absolute. He never, indeed, chose to be absolute except on some one else’s behalf. On ninety-nine points Mrs. Garth decided, but on the hundredth she was often aware that she would have to perform the singularly difficult task of carrying out her own principle, and to make herself subordinate.
加斯先生在没有咨询苏珊的情况下不会采取任何重要的步骤，但必须承认，在他回家之前他就已经做出了决定。对于许多其他人已经决定或固执的事情，他是世界上最容易处理的人。他永远不知道自己会选择什么肉，如果苏珊说他们应该住在四间小屋里，以便节省开支，他会说，“我们走吧”，而不会询问细节。但在迦勒的感觉和判断力强烈的地方，他是一位统治者。尽管他在责备时表现得温和而胆怯，但他周围的每个人都知道，在他选择的特殊场合，他是绝对的。事实上，他从来不选择绝对，除非是为了别人的利益。加思夫人在九十九点上做出了决定，但在第一百点上，她常常意识到，她必须执行一项异常艰巨的任务，即执行自己的原则，并使自己成为从属。

‘It is come round as I thought, Susan,’ said Caleb, when they were seated alone in the evening. He had already narrated the adventure which had brought about Fred’s sharing in his work, but had kept back the further result. ‘The children ARE fond of each other— I mean, Fred and Mary.’
“苏珊，事情正如我所想的那样，”晚上他们单独坐下时凯莱布说道。他已经讲述了弗雷德参与他的工作的冒险经历，但没有透露进一步的结果。 “孩子们彼此喜欢——我是说，弗雷德和玛丽。”

Mrs. Garth laid her work on her knee, and fixed her penetrating eyes anxiously on her husband.
加斯太太把工作放在膝盖上，用锐利的眼睛焦急地盯着她的丈夫。

‘After we’d done our work, Fred poured it all out to me. He can’t bear to be a clergyman, and Mary says she won’t have him if he is one; and the lad would like to be under me and give his mind to business. And I’ve determined to take him and make a man of him.’
“我们完成工作后，弗雷德把一切都倾诉给了我。他无法忍受成为一名牧师，玛丽说如果他是一名牧师，她就不会接受他。这小伙子愿意在我手下专心做事。我决定接受他并让他成为一个男人。

‘Caleb!’ said Mrs. Garth, in a deep contralto, expressive of resigned astonishment.
“迦勒！”加思夫人用低沉的女低音说道，表情中流露出无奈的惊讶。

‘It’s a fine thing to do,’ said Mr. Garth, settling himself firmly against the back of his chair, and grasping the elbows. ‘I shall have trouble with him, but I think I shall carry it through. The lad loves Mary, and a true love for a good woman is a great thing, Susan. It shapes many a rough fellow.’
“这是一件好事，”加斯先生说，他紧紧地靠在椅背上，抓住了胳膊肘。 “我会和他发生麻烦，但我想我会挺过去的。”这小伙子爱玛丽，真正爱一个好女人是一件伟大的事情，苏珊。它塑造了许多粗鲁的人。

‘Has Mary spoken to you on the subject?’ said Mrs Garth, secretly a little hurt that she had to be informed on it herself.
“玛丽和你谈过这个问题吗？”加斯太太说，她暗自感到有点受伤，因为她必须亲自得知这件事。

‘Not a word. I asked her about Fred once; I gave her a bit of a warning. But she assured me she would never marry an idle self-indulgent man— nothing since. But it seems Fred set on Mr. Farebrother to talk to her, because she had forbidden him to speak himself, and Mr. Farebrother has found out that she is fond of Fred, but says he must not be a clergyman. Fred’s heart is fixed on Mary, that I can see: it gives me a good opinion of the lad—and we always liked him, Susan.’
‘一句话也没有说。有一次我问过她关于弗雷德的事。我给了她一点警告。但她向我保证，她永远不会嫁给一个无所事事、自我放纵的男人——从那以后就再也没有了。但弗雷德似乎决定让费雷布拉泽先生和她说话，因为她禁止他自己说话，而费雷布拉泽先生发现她喜欢弗雷德，但说他不能是牧师。我看得出来，弗雷德的心全在玛丽身上：这让我对这个小伙子有了很好的评价——我们一直很喜欢他，苏珊。

‘It is a pity for Mary, I think,’ said Mrs. Garth.
“我认为这对玛丽来说是一种遗憾，”加斯夫人说。

‘Why—a pity?’
“为什么——可惜？”

‘Because, Caleb, she might have had a man who is worth twenty Fred Vincy’s.’
“因为，凯莱布，她可能拥有一个价值二十个弗雷德·文西的男人。”

‘Ah?’ said Caleb, with surprise.
“啊？”凯莱布惊讶地说。

‘I firmly believe that Mr. Farebrother is attached to her, and meant to make her an offer; but of course, now that Fred has used him as an envoy, there is an end to that better prospect.’ There was a severe precision in Mrs. Garth’s utterance. She was vexed and disappointed, but she was bent on abstaining from useless words.
“我坚信费雷布拉泽先生对她很感兴趣，并打算向她提出要约； “不过，当然，既然弗雷德已经任命他为特使，那么更好的前景就结束了。”加斯夫人的话语非常精确。她很烦恼，也很失望，但她坚决不说那些无用的话。

Caleb was silent a few moments under a conflict of feelings. He looked at the floor and moved his head and hands in accompaniment to some inward argumentation. At last he said—
迦勒在内心的冲突中沉默了一会儿。他看着地板，随着内心的争论移动着头和手。最后他说——

‘That would have made me very proud and happy, Susan, and I should have been glad for your sake. I’ve always felt that your belongings have never been on a level with you. But you took me, though I was a plain man.’
“那会让我感到非常自豪和高兴，苏珊，我应该为你感到高兴。我一直觉得你的财产从来都与你不在同一水平线上。但你却带走了我，尽管我只是一个普通人。”

‘I took the best and cleverest man I had ever known,’ said Mrs. Garth, convinced that SHE would never have loved any one who came short of that mark.
“我选择了我所认识的最优秀、最聪明的男人，”加思夫人说道，她坚信她永远不会爱任何达不到这一标准的人。

‘Well, perhaps others thought you might have done better. But it would have been worse for me. And that is what touches me close about Fred. The lad is good at bottom, and clever enough to do, if he’s put in the right way; and he loves and honors my daughter beyond anything, and she has given him a sort of promise according to what he turns out. I say, that young man’s soul is in my hand; and I’ll do the best I can for him, so help me God! It’s my duty, Susan.’
“好吧，也许其他人认为你可能做得更好。但这对我来说会更糟。这就是弗雷德最让我感动的地方。这小伙子在底层很擅长，而且足够聪明，如果他的方法正确的话，他就能做到这一点。他对我女儿的爱和尊重超过了一切，她根据他的结果给了他一种承诺。我说，那个年轻人的灵魂在我手里；我会为他尽我所能，所以请上帝帮助我！这是我的职责，苏珊。

Mrs. Garth was not given to tears, but there was a large one rolling down her face before her husband had finished. It came from the pressure of various feelings, in which there was much affection and some vexation. She wiped it away quickly, saying—
加斯太太没有流泪，但在她丈夫说完之前，她的脸上已经流下了一大滴眼泪。来自各种感情的压力，其中有很多感情，也有一些烦恼。她赶紧把它擦掉，说道——

‘Few men besides you would think it a duty to add to their anxieties in that way, Caleb.’
“除了你之外，很少有人会认为以这种方式增加他们的焦虑是一种责任，凯莱布。”

‘That signifies nothing—what other men would think. I’ve got a clear feeling inside me, and that I shall follow; and I hope your heart will go with me, Susan, in making everything as light as can be to Mary, poor child.’
“这没有任何意义——其他人会怎么想。我内心有一种清晰的感觉，我会遵循；苏珊，我希望你的心会和我一起，让一切对玛丽这个可怜的孩子来说尽可能轻松。

Caleb, leaning back in his chair, looked with anxious appeal towards his wife. She rose and kissed him, saying, ‘God bless you, Caleb! Our children have a good father.’
凯莱布靠在椅子上，焦急地望着他的妻子。她站起来亲吻他，说道：“上帝保佑你，迦勒！”我们的孩子有一个好父亲。”

But she went out and had a hearty cry to make up for the suppression of her words. She felt sure that her husband’s conduct would be misunderstood, and about Fred she was rational and unhopeful. Which would turn out to have the more foresight in it—her rationality or Caleb’s ardent generosity?
但她出去后，痛痛快快地哭了一场，以弥补言语的压抑。她确信她丈夫的行为会被误解，而对于弗雷德，她是理性的，但不抱希望。她的理性还是迦勒的热心慷慨，哪一个更有远见？

When Fred went to the office the next morning, there was a test to be gone through which he was not prepared for.
第二天早上，当弗雷德去办公室时，有一项测试要进行，但他没有做好准备。

‘Now Fred,’ said Caleb, ‘you will have some desk-work. I have always done a good deal of writing myself, but I can’t do without help, and as I want you to understand the accounts and get the values into your head, I mean to do without another clerk. So you must buckle to. How are you at writing and arithmetic?’
“现在弗雷德，”凯莱布说，“你要做一些案头工作。我总是自己写很多东西，但我不能没有帮助，而且因为我希望你理解账目并将价值观带入你的头脑，所以我的意思是不需要另一个职员。所以你必须扣好。你的写作和算术怎么样？

Fred felt an awkward movement of the heart; he had not thought of desk-work; but he was in a resolute mood, and not going to shrink. ‘I’m not afraid of arithmetic, Mr. Garth: it always came easily to me. I think you know my writing.’
弗雷德感到心头一阵尴尬地跳动。他没有想到过办公室工作。但他心情坚决，并不打算退缩。 “我并不害怕算术，加斯先生：这对我来说总是很容易。我想你了解我的写作。

‘Let us see,’ said Caleb, taking up a pen, examining it carefully and handing it, well dipped, to Fred with a sheet of ruled paper. ‘Copy me a line or two of that valuation, with the figures at the end.’
“让我们看看，”凯莱布说，拿起一支笔，仔细地检查了一下，然后把它和一张格子纸一起递给弗雷德。 “给我抄一两行估值，数字在最后。”

At that time the opinion existed that it was beneath a gentleman to write legibly, or with a hand in the least suitable to a clerk. Fred wrote the lines demanded in a hand as gentlemanly as that of any viscount or bishop of the day: the vowels were all alike and the consonants only distinguishable as turning up or down, the strokes had a blotted solidity and the letters disdained to keep the line— in short, it was a manuscript of that venerable kind easy to interpret when you know beforehand what the writer means.
当时有一种观点认为，写字清晰有失绅士风范，或者用最不适合书记员的手写字，这有失绅士风度。弗雷德用一种像当时任何子爵或主教一样绅士的笔迹写下了所要求的线条：元音都是相似的，辅音只能通过向上或向下转动来区分，笔画有污点的坚固性，并且不屑于保持字母的一致性。一句话—​​—简而言之，这是一份值得尊敬的手稿，如果你事先知道作者的意思，就很容易理解。

As Caleb looked on, his visage showed a growing depression, but when Fred handed him the paper he gave something like a snarl, and rapped the paper passionately with the back of his hand. Bad work like this dispelled all Caleb’s mildness.
凯勒布在一旁看着，他的表情越来越沮丧，但当弗雷德把纸递给他时，他发出了类似咆哮的声音，并用手背热情地敲打着纸。像这样糟糕的工作消除了迦勒的所有温和。

‘The deuce!’ he exclaimed, snarlingly. ‘To think that this is a country where a man’s education may cost hundreds and hundreds, and it turns you out this!’ Then in a more pathetic tone, pushing up his spectacles and looking at the unfortunate scribe, ‘The Lord have mercy on us, Fred, I can’t put up with this!’
“天哪！”他咆哮道。 “想想看，在这个国家，一个人的教育可能要花费数百美元，结果却是这样！”然后用一种更可悲的语气，推起眼镜，看着不幸的抄写员，“上帝怜悯我们，弗雷德，我不能忍受这个！”

‘What can I do, Mr. Garth?’ said Fred, whose spirits had sunk very low, not only at the estimate of his handwriting, but at the vision of himself as liable to be ranked with office clerks.
“我能做什么，加斯先生？”弗雷德说，他的情绪非常低落，不仅是因为对他的笔迹的估计，而且是因为他认为自己很可能被排在办公室职员的行列中。

‘Do? Why, you must learn to form your letters and keep the line. What’s the use of writing at all if nobody can understand it?’ asked Caleb, energetically, quite preoccupied with the bad quality of the work. ‘Is there so little business in the world that you must be sending puzzles over the country? But that’s the way people are brought up. I should lose no end of time with the letters some people send me, if Susan did not make them out for me. It’s disgusting.’ Here Caleb tossed the paper from him.
'做？为什么，你必须学会​​写信并保持线条。如果没人能理解的话，写作还有什么用呢？”凯莱布问道，他精力充沛，全神贯注于作品的质量低劣。 “世界上的生意这么少，你一定要在全国范围内发送拼图吗？”但这就是人们长大的方式。如果苏珊没有帮我辨认出那些人寄给我的信，我就会浪费很多时间。这太恶心了。”说到这里，凯莱布把纸从他手中扔掉了。

Any stranger peeping into the office at that moment might have wondered what was the drama between the indignant man of business, and the fine-looking young fellow whose blond complexion was getting rather patchy as he bit his lip with mortification. Fred was struggling with many thoughts. Mr. Garth had been so kind and encouraging at the beginning of their interview, that gratitude and hopefulness had been at a high pitch, and the downfall was proportionate. He had not thought of desk-work—in fact, like the majority of young gentlemen, he wanted an occupation which should be free from disagreeables. I cannot tell what might have been the consequences if he had not distinctly promised himself that he would go to Lowick to see Mary and tell her that he was engaged to work under her father. He did not like to disappoint himself there.
此刻任何一个陌生人在办公室里偷看一眼，都可能会好奇这个愤怒的商人和那个金发肤色变得有些斑驳、羞愧地咬着嘴唇的英俊年轻人之间发生了什么戏剧性的事情。弗雷德在许多想法中挣扎。加斯先生在采访开始时表现得非常友善和鼓舞人心，感激之情和希望都很高，而这次的失败也是相称的。他没有想到过办公室工作——事实上，像大多数年轻绅士一样，他想要一份没有令人不快的职业。如果他没有明确承诺自己会去洛威克见玛丽并告诉她他已订婚在她父亲手下工作，我不知道会产生什么后果。他不想在那里让自己失望。

‘I am very sorry,’ were all the words that he could muster. But Mr. Garth was already relenting.
“我非常抱歉”，这是他能说出的所有话语。但加斯先生已经态度软化了。

‘We must make the best of it, Fred,’ he began, with a return to his usual quiet tone. ‘Every man can learn to write. I taught myself. Go at it with a will, and sit up at night if the day-time isn’t enough. We’ll be patient, my boy. Callum shall go on with the books for a bit, while you are learning. But now I must be off,’ said Caleb, rising. ‘You must let your father know our agreement. You’ll save me Callum’s salary, you know, when you can write; and I can afford to give you eighty pounds for the first year, and more after.’
“我们必须充分利用它，弗雷德，”他开始说道，语气又恢复了平常的平静。 “每个人都可以学习写作。我自学。坚定地去做，如果白天不够，就晚上熬夜。我们会耐心等待，我的孩子。当你学习的时候，卡勒姆应该继续阅读一些书本。但现在我必须走了。”凯莱布站起身来说道。 ‘你必须让你父亲知道我们的协议。你知道，当你会写作时，你会为我节省卡勒姆的薪水；第一年我可以给你八十英镑，之后更多。

When Fred made the necessary disclosure to his parents, the relative effect on the two was a surprise which entered very deeply into his memory. He went straight from Mr. Garth’s office to the warehouse, rightly feeling that the most respectful way in which he could behave to his father was to make the painful communication as gravely and formally as possible. Moreover, the decision would be more certainly understood to be final, if the interview took place in his father’s gravest hours, which were always those spent in his private room at the warehouse.
当弗雷德向他的父母做出必要的披露时，对两人的相对影响是令人惊讶的，这深深地印在了他的记忆中。他直接从加斯先生的办公室去了仓库，正确地感觉到，他对父亲最尊重的方式就是尽可能严肃而正式地进行痛苦的交流。此外，如果采访是在他父亲最严重的时候进行的，那么这个决定就更容易被理解为最终决定，而这些时间总是在他父亲仓库的私人房间里度过的。

Fred entered on the subject directly, and declared briefly what he had done and was resolved to do, expressing at the end his regret that he should be the cause of disappointment to his father, and taking the blame on his own deficiencies. The regret was genuine, and inspired Fred with strong, simple words.
弗雷德直接切入主题，简短地陈述了他所做的事情和决心要做的事情，最后表达了他对自己让父亲失望的遗憾，并把责任归咎于自己的不足。这种遗憾是真诚的，并用强烈而简单的话语激励了弗雷德。

Mr. Vincy listened in profound surprise without uttering even an exclamation, a silence which in his impatient temperament was a sign of unusual emotion. He had not been in good spirits about trade that morning, and the slight bitterness in his lips grew intense as he listened. When Fred had ended, there was a pause of nearly a minute, during which Mr. Vincy replaced a book in his desk and turned the key emphatically. Then he looked at his son steadily, and said—
文西先生深感惊讶地听着，甚至没有发出一声惊叹，这种沉默在他不耐烦的性格中是一种不同寻常的情感的表现。那天早上，他对生意的心情并不好，听着，他嘴唇上的轻微苦涩越来越强烈。弗雷德说完后，停顿了近一分钟，期间文西先生把一本书放回办公桌上，用力转动钥匙。然后他定定地看着儿子，说道——

‘So you’ve made up your mind at last, sir?’
“那么您终于下定决心了吗，先生？”

‘Yes, father.’
“是的，父亲。”

‘Very well; stick to it. I’ve no more to say. You’ve thrown away your education, and gone down a step in life, when I had given you the means of rising, that’s all.’
'很好;坚持下去。我没什么可说的了。你已经抛弃了你的教育，在人生中退了一步，而我给了你上升的途径，仅此而已。

‘I am very sorry that we differ, father. I think I can be quite as much of a gentleman at the work I have undertaken, as if I had been a curate. But I am grateful to you for wishing to do the best for me.’
“我很抱歉我们意见不同，父亲。我认为，在我所从事的工作中，我可以表现得像一位绅士，就像我是一名牧师一样。但我很感激你愿意为我做最好的事情。”

‘Very well; I have no more to say. I wash my hands of you. I only hope, when you have a son of your own he will make a better return for the pains you spend on him.’
'很好;我没有更多可说的了。我对你洗手。我只希望，当你有了自己的儿子后，他能更好地回报你为他所付出的心血。

This was very cutting to Fred. His father was using that unfair advantage possessed by us all when we are in a pathetic situation and see our own past as if it were simply part of the pathos. In reality, Mr. Vincy’s wishes about his son had had a great deal of pride, inconsiderateness, and egoistic folly in them. But still the disappointed father held a strong lever; and Fred felt as if he were being banished with a malediction.
这对弗雷德来说非常刺痛。当我们处于悲惨境地时，他的父亲利用了我们所有人所拥有的不公平优势，并将我们自己的过去视为悲惨的一部分。事实上，文西先生对儿子的愿望中充满了骄傲、轻率和自私的愚蠢。但失望的父亲仍然握有强大的杠杆；弗雷德感觉自己好像被咒骂了一样被放逐了。

‘I hope you will not object to my remaining at home, sir?’ he said, after rising to go; ‘I shall have a sufficient salary to pay for my board, as of course I should wish to do.’
“我希望您不会反对我留在家里，先生？”他起身要走后说道。 “我将有足够的薪水来支付我的董事会费用，这当然是我所希望的。”

‘Board be hanged!’ said Mr. Vincy, recovering himself in his disgust at the notion that Fred’s keep would be missed at his table. ‘Of course your mother will want you to stay. But I shall keep no horse for you, you understand; and you will pay your own tailor. You will do with a suit or two less, I fancy, when you have to pay for ‘em.’
“董事会被绞死！”文西先生说，一想到弗雷德的城堡会在他的餐桌上被错过，他就感到厌恶，恢复了过来。 “你妈妈当然希望你留下来。但我不会为你留马，你明白；您将支付自己的裁缝费。我想，当你必须为“它们”付费时，你会少穿一两套西装。

Fred lingered; there was still something to be said. At last it came.
弗雷德徘徊不去。还有话要说。终于来了。

‘I hope you will shake hands with me, father, and forgive me the vexation I have caused you.’
“父亲，我希望您能与我握手，并原谅我给您带来的烦恼。”

Mr. Vincy from his chair threw a quick glance upward at his son, who had advanced near to him, and then gave his hand, saying hurriedly, ‘Yes, yes, let us say no more.’
坐在椅子上的文西先生迅速抬头看了一眼走到他身边的儿子，然后伸出手，连忙说道：“是的，是的，我们别再说了。”

Fred went through much more narrative and explanation with his mother, but she was inconsolable, having before her eyes what perhaps her husband had never thought of, the certainty that Fred would marry Mary Garth, that her life would henceforth be spoiled by a perpetual infusion of Garths and their ways, and that her darling boy, with his beautiful face and stylish air ‘beyond anybody else’s son in Middlemarch,’ would be sure to get like that family in plainness of appearance and carelessness about his clothes. To her it seemed that there was a Garth conspiracy to get possession of the desirable Fred, but she dared not enlarge on this opinion, because a slight hint of it had made him ‘fly out’ at her as he had never done before. Her temper was too sweet for her to show any anger, but she felt that her happiness had received a bruise, and for several days merely to look at Fred made her cry a little as if he were the subject of some baleful prophecy. Perhaps she was the slower to recover her usual cheerfulness because Fred had warned her that she must not reopen the sore question with his father, who had accepted his decision and forgiven him. If her husband had been vehement against Fred, she would have been urged into defence of her darling. It was the end of the fourth day when Mr. Vincy said to her—
弗雷德和他的母亲进行了更多的叙述和解释，但她伤心欲绝，眼前出现了她丈夫可能从未想到过的事情，弗雷德肯定会嫁给玛丽·加斯，她的生活从此将被永久的输液所破坏。她亲爱的儿子，有着美丽的脸庞和时尚的气质，“比米德尔马契任何人的儿子都好”，他的外表一定会像那个家庭一样朴素，对衣服也很粗心。在她看来，加斯似乎有一个阴谋，想要占有令人向往的弗雷德，但她不敢放大这个观点，因为只要有一点点暗示，他就会向她“飞来飞去”，这是他以前从未做过的。她的脾气太温和了，无法表现出任何愤怒，但她觉得她的幸福受到了伤害，几天来，仅仅看着弗雷德就让她哭了一会儿，仿佛他是某种恶毒预言的对象。也许她恢复平常快乐的速度比较慢，因为弗雷德警告过她，她不能再向他的父亲提出这个痛苦的问题，他的父亲已经接受了他的决定并原谅了他。如果她的丈夫强烈反对弗雷德，她就会被敦促去保护她的宝贝。第四天快结束时，文西先生对她说——

‘Come, Lucy, my dear, don’t be so down-hearted. You always have spoiled the boy, and you must go on spoiling him.’
‘来吧，露西，亲爱的，别这么沮丧。你一直宠坏了这个男孩，而且你必须继续宠坏他。

‘Nothing ever did cut me so before, Vincy,’ said the wife, her fair throat and chin beginning to tremble again, ‘only his illness.’
“文西，以前从来没有什么事情让我如此伤心，”妻子说，她美丽的喉咙和下巴又开始颤抖，“只有他的病。”

‘Pooh, pooh, never mind! We must expect to have trouble with our children. Don’t make it worse by letting me see you out of spirits.’
‘呸呸呸，没关系！我们必须预料到我们的孩子会遇到麻烦。别让我看到你情绪低落，让事情变得更糟。

‘Well, I won’t,’ said Mrs. Vincy, roused by this appeal and adjusting herself with a little shake as of a bird which lays down its ruffled plumage.
“好吧，我不会的，”文西夫人说，她被这个呼吁唤醒了，她像小鸟放下它那皱巴巴的羽毛一样轻轻摇晃了一下。

‘It won’t do to begin making a fuss about one,’ said Mr. Vincy, wishing to combine a little grumbling with domestic cheerfulness. ‘There’s Rosamond as well as Fred.’
“开始对一个人大惊小怪是不行的，”文西先生说，他希望将一点抱怨与家庭欢乐结合起来。 “还有罗莎蒙德和弗雷德。”

‘Yes, poor thing. I’m sure I felt for her being disappointed of her baby; but she got over it nicely.’
‘是的，可怜的东西。我确信我对她对自己的孩子感到失望感到同情；但她很好地克服了它。

‘Baby, pooh! I can see Lydgate is making a mess of his practice, and getting into debt too, by what I hear. I shall have Rosamond coming to me with a pretty tale one of these days. But they’ll get no money from me, I know. Let HIS family help him. I never did like that marriage. But it’s no use talking. Ring the bell for lemons, and don’t look dull any more, Lucy. I’ll drive you and Louisa to Riverston to-morrow.’
‘宝贝，呸！据我所知，我可以看到利德盖特的做法一团糟，而且还负债累累。有一天，罗莎蒙德会带着一个美丽的故事来找我。但我知道他们不会从我这里得到钱。让他的家人帮助他。我从来不喜欢那段婚姻。但光说是没有用的。摇响柠檬的铃声，露西，别再显得沉闷了。明天我会开车送你和路易莎去里弗斯顿。

CHAPTER LVII
第四十七章

They numbered scarce eight summers when a name
当一个名字出现时，他们已经度过了稀有的八个夏天

Rose on their souls and stirred such motions there
他们的灵魂升起并在那里激起这样的运动

As thrill the buds and shape their hidden frame
刺激花蕾并塑造其隐藏的框架

At penetration of the quickening air:
在加速空气渗透时：

His name who told of loyal Evan Dhu,
他的名字讲述了忠诚的埃文杜，

Of quaint Bradwardine, and Vich Ian Vor,
古朴的布拉德沃丁和维奇·伊恩·沃尔，

Making the little world their childhood knew
创造他们童年所知道的小世界

Large with a land of mountain lake and scaur,
幅员辽阔，有山湖水草之地，

And larger yet with wonder love belief
更大却充满了奇妙的爱情信念

Toward Walter Scott who living far away
致远方的沃尔特·斯科特

Sent them this wealth of joy and noble grief.
给他们带来了丰富的欢乐和高贵的悲伤。

The book and they must part, but day by day,
这本书和他们必须分开，但日复一日，

In lines that thwart like portly spiders ran
像肥胖的蜘蛛一样阻碍奔跑的队伍

They wrote the tale, from Tully Veolan.
他们写了塔利·维奥兰的故事。

The evening that Fred Vincy walked to Lowick parsonage (he had begun to see that this was a world in which even a spirited young man must sometimes walk for want of a horse to carry him) he set out at five o’clock and called on Mrs. Garth by the way, wishing to assure himself that she accepted their new relations willingly.
那天晚上，弗莱德·文西步行前往洛威克牧师住宅（他开始意识到，在这个世界上，即使是一个精力充沛的年轻人，有时也必须步行，因为缺乏一匹马驮着他），他五点钟出发，拜访了顺便说一句，加斯夫人希望向自己保证，她愿意接受他们的新关系。

He found the family group, dogs and cats included, under the great apple-tree in the orchard. It was a festival with Mrs. Garth, for her eldest son, Christy, her peculiar joy and pride, had come home for a short holiday—Christy, who held it the most desirable thing in the world to be a tutor, to study all literatures and be a regenerate Porson, and who was an incorporate criticism on poor Fred, a sort of object-lesson given to him by the educational mother. Christy himself, a square-browed, broad-shouldered masculine edition of his mother not much higher than Fred’s shoulder—which made it the harder that he should be held superior—was always as simple as possible, and thought no more of Fred’s disinclination to scholarship than of a giraffe’s, wishing that he himself were more of the same height. He was lying on the ground now by his mother’s chair, with his straw hat laid flat over his eyes, while Jim on the other side was reading aloud from that beloved writer who has made a chief part in the happiness of many young lives. The volume was ‘Ivanhoe,’ and Jim was in the great archery scene at the tournament, but suffered much interruption from Ben, who had fetched his own old bow and arrows, and was making himself dreadfully disagreeable, Letty thought, by begging all present to observe his random shots, which no one wished to do except Brownie, the active-minded but probably shallow mongrel, while the grizzled Newfoundland lying in the sun looked on with the dull-eyed neutrality of extreme old age. Letty herself, showing as to her mouth and pinafore some slight signs that she had been assisting at the gathering of the cherries which stood in a coral-heap on the tea-table, was now seated on the grass, listening open-eyed to the reading.
他在果园里的大苹果树下找到了一家人，包括狗和猫。这是加斯太太的一个节日，因为她的大儿子克里斯蒂带着她特有的喜悦和自豪回家度过了一个短暂的假期——克里斯蒂认为，当一名家庭教师，学习所有的知识，是世界上最令人向往的事情。文学，成为一个重生的波尔森，她是对可怜的弗雷德的批评，这是教育母亲给他的一种实物教训。克里斯蒂本人，方眉宽肩，是他母亲的阳刚版，比弗雷德的肩膀高不了多少——这使得他更难被认为是优越的——总是尽可能简单，并且不再考虑弗雷德的不愿意比长颈鹿的学识还高，希望他自己也有同样的高度。他现在躺在母亲椅子旁边的地上，草帽平放在眼睛上，而吉姆则在另一边大声朗读那位受人爱戴的作家的作品，这位作家为许多年轻生命的幸福做出了重要贡献。这本书是《艾芬豪》，吉姆在比赛中参加了射箭比赛，但受到了本的多次打扰，本拿来了自己的旧弓和箭，莱蒂想，通过乞求所有在场的人，让自己变得非常不愉快。观察他的随意射击，除了布朗尼之外没有人愿意这样做，布朗尼是一只思想活跃但可能很浅薄的杂种，而头发花白的纽芬兰躺在阳光下，以老年的呆滞中立态度看着。莱蒂本人，她的嘴和围裙上有一些轻微的迹象，表明她一直在协助采集茶几上珊瑚堆中的樱桃，现在她坐在草地上，睁大眼睛听着阅读。

But the centre of interest was changed for all by the arrival of Fred Vincy. When, seating himself on a garden-stool, he said that he was on his way to Lowick Parsonage, Ben, who had thrown down his bow, and snatched up a reluctant half-grown kitten instead, strode across Fred’s outstretched leg, and said ‘Take me!’
但弗雷德·文西的到来改变了所有人的兴趣中心。当他坐在花园凳子上时，他说他正在前往洛威克牧师住宅的路上，本扔下了弓，抓起一只不情愿的半大小猫，大步跨过弗雷德伸出的腿，说道'带我去！'

‘Oh, and me too,’ said Letty.
“哦，我也是，”莱蒂说。

‘You can’t keep up with Fred and me,’ said Ben.
“你跟不上弗雷德和我，”本说。

‘Yes, I can. Mother, please say that I am to go,’ urged Letty, whose life was much checkered by resistance to her depreciation as a girl.
'我可以。妈妈，请说我要走了。”莱蒂催促道，作为一个女孩，莱蒂的生活因为对自己贬低的抵制而充满波折。

‘I shall stay with Christy,’ observed Jim; as much as to say that he had the advantage of those simpletons; whereupon Letty put her hand up to her head and looked with jealous indecision from the one to the other.
“我会和克里斯蒂待在一起，”吉姆说。甚至可以说，他比那些傻瓜更有优势。于是莱蒂把手举到头上，嫉妒地犹豫不决地从一个人看向另一个人。

‘Let us all go and see Mary,’ said Christy, opening his arms.
“我们都去看看玛丽吧，”克里斯蒂张开双臂说道。

‘No, my dear child, we must not go in a swarm to the parsonage. And that old Glasgow suit of yours would never do. Besides, your father will come home. We must let Fred go alone. He can tell Mary that you are here, and she will come back to-morrow.’
“不，我亲爱的孩子，我们不能成群结队地去牧师住宅。你那套旧格拉斯哥西装根本就不行。再说了，你爸爸也会回家的。我们必须让弗雷德一个人走。他可以告诉玛丽你在这里，她明天就会回来。

Christy glanced at his own threadbare knees, and then at Fred’s beautiful white trousers. Certainly Fred’s tailoring suggested the advantages of an English university, and he had a graceful way even of looking warm and of pushing his hair back with his handkerchief.
克里斯蒂看了一眼自己破旧的膝盖，又看了一眼弗雷德漂亮的白裤子。当然，弗雷德的剪裁体现了英国大学的优势，他甚至有一种优雅的方式，甚至看起来很温暖，用手帕将头发向后推。

‘Children, run away,’ said Mrs. Garth; ‘it is too warm to hang about your friends. Take your brother and show him the rabbits.’
“孩子们，快逃吧，”加斯太太说。 “和朋友在一起太温暖了。”带你的兄弟去给他看兔子。”

The eldest understood, and led off the children immediately. Fred felt that Mrs. Garth wished to give him an opportunity of saying anything he had to say, but he could only begin by observing—
老大明白了，连忙带着孩子们走了。弗雷德觉得加斯太太希望给他一个机会，让他说出自己想说的话，但他只能先观察——

‘How glad you must be to have Christy here!’
“克里斯蒂在这里你一定很高兴！”

‘Yes; he has come sooner than I expected. He got down from the coach at nine o’clock, just after his father went out. I am longing for Caleb to come and hear what wonderful progress Christy is making. He has paid his expenses for the last year by giving lessons, carrying on hard study at the same time. He hopes soon to get a private tutorship and go abroad.’
'是的;他来得比我预想的要早。九点钟，他父亲刚出去，他就下了车。我渴望凯莱布能来听听克里斯蒂取得的惊人进展。他通过授课来支付去年的费用，同时进行刻苦学习。他希望很快能得到私人辅导并出国。

‘He is a great fellow,’ said Fred, to whom these cheerful truths had a medicinal taste, ‘and no trouble to anybody.’ After a slight pause, he added, ‘But I fear you will think that I am going to be a great deal of trouble to Mr. Garth.’
“他是一个伟大的人，”弗雷德说，这些令人愉快的真理对他来说有一种药用的味道，“而且不会给任何人带来麻烦。”稍稍停顿后，他补充道，“但我担心你会认为我会成为给加斯先生带来了很大的麻烦。

‘Caleb likes taking trouble: he is one of those men who always do more than any one would have thought of asking them to do,’ answered Mrs. Garth. She was knitting, and could either look at Fred or not, as she chose—always an advantage when one is bent on loading speech with salutary meaning; and though Mrs. Garth intended to be duly reserved, she did wish to say something that Fred might be the better for.
“迦勒喜欢惹麻烦：他是那种总是比任何人想象要求他们做的事情都要多的人之一，”加思夫人回答道。她正在编织，可以看弗雷德也可以不看弗雷德，由她自己选择——当一个人一心想在演讲中加入有益的意义时，这总是一个优势；尽管加斯夫人打算适当保留，但她确实想说一些弗雷德可能更适合说的话。

‘I know you think me very undeserving, Mrs. Garth, and with good reason,’ said Fred, his spirit rising a little at the perception of something like a disposition to lecture him. ‘I happen to have behaved just the worst to the people I can’t help wishing for the most from. But while two men like Mr. Garth and Mr. Farebrother have not given me up, I don’t see why I should give myself up.’ Fred thought it might be well to suggest these masculine examples to Mrs. Garth.
“我知道你认为我很不值得，加斯太太，而且有充分的理由。”弗雷德说，他的精神因察觉到有类似教训他的倾向而稍稍振奋起来。 “我碰巧对那些我情不自禁地希望得到最大帮助的人表现得最糟糕。但是，虽然像加斯先生和费雷布拉泽先生这样的两个人没有放弃我，但我不明白为什么我应该放弃自己。”弗雷德认为向加斯太太推荐这些男性榜样可能会更好。

‘Assuredly,’ said she, with gathering emphasis. ‘A young man for whom two such elders had devoted themselves would indeed be culpable if he threw himself away and made their sacrifices vain.’
“当然，”她语气越来越重。 “两个这样的长辈为一个年轻人奉献了自己的一切，如果他自暴自弃，让他们的牺牲白费了，那确实是有罪的。”

Fred wondered a little at this strong language, but only said, ‘I hope it will not be so with me, Mrs. Garth, since I have some encouragement to believe that I may win Mary. Mr. Garth has told you about that? You were not surprised, I dare say?’ Fred ended, innocently referring only to his own love as probably evident enough.
弗雷德对这种强烈的语言感到有点奇怪，但只是说：“我希望加思夫人不会这样，因为我受到一些鼓励，相信我可能会赢得玛丽。”加斯先生告诉过你这件事吗？我敢说你并不感到惊讶？”弗雷德最后说道，天真地只提到他自己的爱可能已经足够明显了。

‘Not surprised that Mary has given you encouragement?’ returned Mrs. Garth, who thought it would be well for Fred to be more alive to the fact that Mary’s friends could not possibly have wished this beforehand, whatever the Vincys might suppose. ‘Yes, I confess I was surprised.’
“玛丽给了你鼓励，你并不感到惊讶吗？”加斯太太回答道，她认为弗雷德应该更清楚地认识到这样一个事实：无论文西一家会怎么想，玛丽的朋友们事先不可能希望如此。 “是的，我承认我很惊讶。”

‘She never did give me any—not the least in the world, when I talked to her myself,’ said Fred, eager to vindicate Mary. ‘But when I asked Mr. Farebrother to speak for me, she allowed him to tell me there was a hope.’
“当我亲自和她交谈时，她从来没有给过我任何东西，”弗雷德说，急于为玛丽辩护。 “但是当我请费雷布拉泽先生为我说话时，她允许他告诉我还有希望。”

The power of admonition which had begun to stir in Mrs. Garth had not yet discharged itself. It was a little too provoking even for HER self-control that this blooming youngster should flourish on the disappointments of sadder and wiser people—making a meal of a nightingale and never knowing it—and that all the while his family should suppose that hers was in eager need of this sprig; and her vexation had fermented the more actively because of its total repression towards her husband. Exemplary wives will sometimes find scapegoats in this way. She now said with energetic decision, ‘You made a great mistake, Fred, in asking Mr. Farebrother to speak for you.’
加斯太太身上开始激起的警告力量还没有发挥出来。即使对她的自制力来说，这个蓬勃发展的年轻人竟然在更悲伤、更聪明的人的失望中茁壮成长——吃了一顿夜莺，却从未意识到这一点——而他的家人一直认为她是迫切需要这根小树枝；由于对丈夫的全面压制，她的烦恼更加活跃地发酵。模范妻子有时会这样找替罪羊。她现在果断地说：“弗雷德，你请费雷布拉泽先生为你说话，这是一个很大的错误。”

‘Did I?’ said Fred, reddening instantaneously. He was alarmed, but at a loss to know what Mrs. Garth meant, and added, in an apologetic tone, ‘Mr. Farebrother has always been such a friend of ours; and Mary, I knew, would listen to him gravely; and he took it on himself quite readily.’
“是吗？”弗雷德说，脸立刻涨红了。他很震惊，但不明白加斯夫人的意思，于是用抱歉的语气补充道：“加斯先生。” Farebrother 一直是我们的朋友。我知道，玛丽会严肃地听他讲话。他很乐意自己承担了这件事。

‘Yes, young people are usually blind to everything but their own wishes, and seldom imagine how much those wishes cost others,’ said Mrs. Garth She did not mean to go beyond this salutary general doctrine, and threw her indignation into a needless unwinding of her worsted, knitting her brow at it with a grand air.
“是的，年轻人通常对除了自己的愿望之外的一切都视而不见，而且很少想象这些愿望会让别人付出多大的代价，”加思夫人说。她的精纺毛衣，皱起眉头，神态庄严。

‘I cannot conceive how it could be any pain to Mr. Farebrother,’ said Fred, who nevertheless felt that surprising conceptions were beginning to form themselves.
“我无法想象这对费雷布拉泽先生来说会有什么痛苦，”弗雷德说，尽管如此，他仍然感到令人惊讶的想法开始形成。

‘Precisely; you cannot conceive,’ said Mrs. Garth, cutting her words as neatly as possible.
'恰恰; “你无法怀孕。”加斯太太尽可能简洁地说道。

For a moment Fred looked at the horizon with a dismayed anxiety, and then turning with a quick movement said almost sharply—
弗雷德忧心忡忡地望着地平线，然后迅速转身，几乎是尖刻地说——

‘Do you mean to say, Mrs. Garth, that Mr. Farebrother is in love with Mary?’
“加思夫人，您的意思是说费雷布拉泽先生爱上了玛丽吗？”

‘And if it were so, Fred, I think you are the last person who ought to be surprised,’ returned Mrs. Garth, laying her knitting down beside her and folding her arms. It was an unwonted sign of emotion in her that she should put her work out of her hands. In fact her feelings were divided between the satisfaction of giving Fred his discipline and the sense of having gone a little too far. Fred took his hat and stick and rose quickly.
“如果是这样的话，弗雷德，我想你是最不应该感到惊讶的人。”加斯太太回答道，她把编织的活儿放在身旁，抱起双臂。她的情绪中出现了一种不寻常的迹象，那就是她应该把工作从自己手中解放出来。事实上，她的感受分为两种，一种是对弗雷德进行纪律的满足感，另一种是觉得自己做得有点过分了。弗雷德拿起帽子和手杖，迅速站了起来。

‘Then you think I am standing in his way, and in Mary’s too?’ he said, in a tone which seemed to demand an answer.
“那么你认为我妨碍了他，也妨碍了玛丽？”他问道，语气似乎需要回答。

Mrs. Garth could not speak immediately. She had brought herself into the unpleasant position of being called on to say what she really felt, yet what she knew there were strong reasons for concealing. And to her the consciousness of having exceeded in words was peculiarly mortifying. Besides, Fred had given out unexpected electricity, and he now added, ‘Mr. Garth seemed pleased that Mary should be attached to me. He could not have known anything of this.’
加斯夫人无法立即说话。她让自己陷入了一种不愉快的境地，被要求说出她的真实感受，但她知道有充分的理由隐瞒。对她来说，意识到自己在言语上已经超出了限度，这让她感到特别羞愧。此外，弗雷德意外地发出了电流，他现在补充道：“弗莱德先生。”加斯似乎很高兴玛丽会依附于我。他不可能知道这一切。

Mrs. Garth felt a severe twinge at this mention of her husband, the fear that Caleb might think her in the wrong not being easily endurable. She answered, wanting to check unintended consequences—
加斯太太一提到她丈夫就感到一阵剧烈的刺痛，她担心迦勒可能会认为她错了，这让她难以忍受。她一边回答，一边想确认一下意想不到的后果——

‘I spoke from inference only. I am not aware that Mary knows anything of the matter.’
“我只是根据推论说的。我不知道玛丽是否知道这件事。

But she hesitated to beg that he would keep entire silence on a subject which she had herself unnecessarily mentioned, not being used to stoop in that way; and while she was hesitating there was already a rush of unintended consequences under the apple-tree where the tea-things stood. Ben, bouncing across the grass with Brownie at his heels, and seeing the kitten dragging the knitting by a lengthening line of wool, shouted and clapped his hands; Brownie barked, the kitten, desperate, jumped on the tea-table and upset the milk, then jumped down again and swept half the cherries with it; and Ben, snatching up the half-knitted sock-top, fitted it over the kitten’s head as a new source of madness, while Letty arriving cried out to her mother against this cruelty—it was a history as full of sensation as ‘This is the house that Jack built.’ Mrs. Garth was obliged to interfere, the other young ones came up and the tete-a-tete with Fred was ended. He got away as soon as he could, and Mrs. Garth could only imply some retractation of her severity by saying ‘God bless you’ when she shook hands with him.
但她犹豫着是否请求他对她自己不必要提及的话题保持完全沉默，因为她不习惯这样弯腰。就在她犹豫的时候，放茶具的苹果树下已经出现了一系列意想不到的后果。本在草地上蹦蹦跳跳，布朗尼跟在他后面，看到小猫用一根加长的羊毛线拖着针织物，他大声喊叫，拍了拍手；布朗尼叫了一声，小猫绝望了，跳到茶几上，打翻了牛奶，然后又跳下来，用牛奶扫走了一半的樱桃；本抓起了那只半针织的袜子，把它套在小猫的头上，作为新的疯狂来源，而莱蒂到达时向她的母亲大声喊叫，反对这种残忍行为——这是一段充满感触的历史，就像“这是加斯太太不得不介入，其他年轻人也上来了，与弗雷德的私聊结束了。他尽快离开了，加斯夫人在与他握手时只能说“上帝保佑你”，暗示她的严厉有所收敛。

She was unpleasantly conscious that she had been on the verge of speaking as ‘one of the foolish women speaketh’—telling first and entreating silence after. But she had not entreated silence, and to prevent Caleb’s blame she determined to blame herself and confess all to him that very night. It was curious what an awful tribunal the mild Caleb’s was to her, whenever he set it up. But she meant to point out to him that the revelation might do Fred Vincy a great deal of good.
她不愉快地意识到自己正要像“一个愚蠢的女人说话”那样说话——先说，然后恳求安静。但她并没有恳求保持沉默，为了防止迦勒责怪，她决定自责，并在当晚向他坦白了一切。奇怪的是，温和的凯勒布法庭无论何时设立，对她来说都是一个多么可怕的法庭。但她想向他指出，这一发现可能会给弗雷德·文西带来很多好处。

No doubt it was having a strong effect on him as he walked to Lowick. Fred’s light hopeful nature had perhaps never had so much of a bruise as from this suggestion that if he had been out of the way Mary might have made a thoroughly good match. Also he was piqued that he had been what he called such a stupid lout as to ask that intervention from Mr. Farebrother. But it was not in a lover’s nature— it was not in Fred’s, that the new anxiety raised about Mary’s feeling should not surmount every other. Notwithstanding his trust in Mr. Farebrother’s generosity, notwithstanding what Mary had said to him, Fred could not help feeling that he had a rival: it was a new consciousness, and he objected to it extremely, not being in the least ready to give up Mary for her good, being ready rather to fight for her with any man whatsoever. But the fighting with Mr. Farebrother must be of a metaphorical kind, which was much more difficult to Fred than the muscular. Certainly this experience was a discipline for Fred hardly less sharp than his disappointment about his uncle’s will. The iron had not entered into his soul, but he had begun to imagine what the sharp edge would be. It did not once occur to Fred that Mrs. Garth might be mistaken about Mr. Farebrother, but he suspected that she might be wrong about Mary. Mary had been staying at the parsonage lately, and her mother might know very little of what had been passing in her mind.
毫无疑问，当他走向洛威克时，这对他产生了强烈的影响。弗雷德充满希望的天性也许从来没有像这个建议那样受到如此大的伤害，因为如果他不碍事，玛丽可能会成为一个完美的伴侣。他还很生气，因为他被他称为一个愚蠢的笨蛋，竟然要求费雷布拉泽先生介入。但这不是情人的本性——弗雷德的本性也不是这样，玛丽的感情所引发的新焦虑不应该超越其他一切。尽管他相信费雷布拉泽先生的慷慨，尽管玛丽对他说了些什么，弗雷德还是忍不住觉得自己有一个竞争对手：这是一种新的意识，他对此极度反对，丝毫不准备放弃。玛丽为了她好，准备好与任何男人为她而战。但与费雷布拉泽先生的战斗一定是隐喻性的，这对弗雷德来说比肌肉发达的人要困难得多。当然，这次经历对弗雷德来说是一种磨练，其严厉程度不亚于他对叔叔遗嘱的失望。铁还没有进入他的灵魂，但他已经开始想象那锋利的边缘会是什么。弗雷德从来没有想到加思夫人可能对费勒布拉泽先生有误解，但他怀疑她对玛丽的看法可能是错误的。玛丽最近一直住在牧师住宅，她的母亲可能不太了解她脑子里在想什么。

He did not feel easier when he found her looking cheerful with the three ladies in the drawing-room. They were in animated discussion on some subject which was dropped when he entered, and Mary was copying the labels from a heap of shallow cabinet drawers, in a minute handwriting which she was skilled in. Mr. Farebrother was somewhere in the village, and the three ladies knew nothing of Fred’s peculiar relation to Mary: it was impossible for either of them to propose that they should walk round the garden, and Fred predicted to himself that he should have to go away without saying a word to her in private. He told her first of Christy’s arrival and then of his own engagement with her father; and he was comforted by seeing that this latter news touched her keenly. She said hurriedly, ‘I am so glad,’ and then bent over her writing to hinder any one from noticing her face. But here was a subject which Mrs. Farebrother could not let pass.
当他发现她在客厅里和三位女士在一起时看上去很高兴时，他并没有感到轻松。他们正在热烈地讨论某个话题，当他进来时，话题就被搁置了，玛丽正在用她熟练的小字笔从一堆浅柜子抽屉里抄写标签。费雷布拉泽先生在村里的某个地方，而三位女士对弗雷德与玛丽的特殊关系一无所知：她们中的任何一个都不可能提议他们应该绕着花园散步，弗雷德对自己说，他应该私下里不跟她说一句话就走开。他首先告诉她克里斯蒂的到来，然后告诉她他自己与她父亲订婚了。看到后一个消息对她触动很大，他感到很欣慰。她急忙说道：“我太高兴了。”然后弯腰写字，不让任何人注意到她的脸。但法尔布拉泽太太不能回避这个话题。

‘You don’t mean, my dear Miss Garth, that you are glad to hear of a young man giving up the Church for which he was educated: you only mean that things being so, you are glad that he should be under an excellent man like your father.’
“我亲爱的加思小姐，你的意思并不是说你很高兴听到一个年轻人放弃了他所受教育的教会：你只是说，事情既然如此，你很高兴他应该在一个优秀的教养之下。像你父亲一样的人。

‘No, really, Mrs. Farebrother, I am glad of both, I fear,’ said Mary, cleverly getting rid of one rebellious tear. ‘I have a dreadfully secular mind. I never liked any clergyman except the Vicar of Wakefield and Mr. Farebrother.’
“不，真的，费厄布拉泽太太，恐怕我两样都高兴。”玛丽说着，巧妙地擦掉了一滴叛逆的泪水。 “我有一个可怕的世俗思想。除了韦克菲尔德的牧师和费尔布拉泽先生之外，我从来不喜欢任何牧师。

‘Now why, my dear?’ said Mrs. Farebrother, pausing on her large wooden knitting-needles and looking at Mary. ‘You have always a good reason for your opinions, but this astonishes me. Of course I put out of the question those who preach new doctrine. But why should you dislike clergymen?’
“现在为什么，亲爱的？”法尔布拉泽太太说，她停下手中的大木针，看着玛丽。 “你的观点总是有充分的理由，但这让我感到惊讶。当然，我排除那些宣扬新教义的人。但你为什么不喜欢牧师呢？

‘Oh dear,’ said Mary, her face breaking into merriment as she seemed to consider a moment, ‘I don’t like their neckcloths.’
“哦，天哪，”玛丽说道，似乎考虑了一会儿，她的脸上露出了喜悦，“我不喜欢他们的围巾。”

‘Why, you don’t like Camden’s, then,’ said Miss Winifred, in some anxiety.
“那么，你不喜欢卡姆登的，”威妮弗雷德小姐有些焦虑地说。

‘Yes, I do,’ said Mary. ‘I don’t like the other clergymen’s neckcloths, because it is they who wear them.’
“是的，我愿意，”玛丽说。 “我不喜欢其他牧师的领巾，因为是他们自己戴的。”

‘How very puzzling!’ said Miss Noble, feeling that her own intellect was probably deficient.
“真是令人费解！”诺布尔小姐说，她觉得自己的智力可能有缺陷。

‘My dear, you are joking. You would have better reasons than these for slighting so respectable a class of men,’ said Mrs. Farebrother, majestically.
‘亲爱的，你在开玩笑。 “你有比这些更好的理由来轻视如此受人尊敬的一类人。”法尔布拉泽夫人威严地说。

‘Miss Garth has such severe notions of what people should be that it is difficult to satisfy her,’ said Fred.
“加思小姐对于人应该是什么样子有着如此严格的观念，很难让她满意，”弗雷德说。

‘Well, I am glad at least that she makes an exception in favor of my son,’ said the old lady.
“好吧，至少我很高兴她破例支持我儿子。”老太太说道。

Mary was wondering at Fred’s piqued tone, when Mr. Farebrother came in and had to hear the news about the engagement under Mr. Garth. At the end he said with quiet satisfaction, ‘THAT is right;’ and then bent to look at Mary’s labels and praise her handwriting. Fred felt horribly jealous—was glad, of course, that Mr. Farebrother was so estimable, but wished that he had been ugly and fat as men at forty sometimes are. It was clear what the end would be, since Mary openly placed Farebrother above everybody, and these women were all evidently encouraging the affair. He, was feeling sure that he should have no chance of speaking to Mary, when Mr. Farebrother said—
当费雷布拉泽先生进来并不得不听到加斯先生订婚的消息时，玛丽对弗雷德的激怒语气感到好奇。最后，他平静地满意地说：“没错；”然后弯下腰看玛丽的标签，称赞她的笔迹。弗雷德感到非常嫉妒——当然，他很高兴费雷布拉泽先生如此值得尊敬，但希望他像四十岁的男人有时那样又丑又胖。结果很明显，因为玛丽公开将费雷布拉泽置于所有人之上，而这些女人显然都在鼓励这件事。当费雷布拉泽先生说——时，他确信自己没有机会和玛丽说话。

‘Fred, help me to carry these drawers back into my study— you have never seen my fine new study. Pray come too, Miss Garth. I want you to see a stupendous spider I found this morning.’
“弗雷德，帮我把这些抽屉搬回我的书房——你从来没有见过我漂亮的新书房。加斯小姐，请也来吧。我想让你看看我今天早上发现的一只巨大的蜘蛛。

Mary at once saw the Vicar’s intention. He had never since the memorable evening deviated from his old pastoral kindness towards her, and her momentary wonder and doubt had quite gone to sleep. Mary was accustomed to think rather rigorously of what was probable, and if a belief flattered her vanity she felt warned to dismiss it as ridiculous, having early had much exercise in such dismissals. It was as she had foreseen: when Fred had been asked to admire the fittings of the study, and she had been asked to admire the spider, Mr. Farebrother said—
玛丽立刻看出了牧师的意图。自从那个令人难忘的夜晚以来，他对她一直保持着田园般的友善，而她一时的惊奇和怀疑已经完全消失了。玛丽习惯于相当严格地思考可能发生的事情，如果某种信念满足了她的虚荣心，她就会觉得自己被警告要驳回它，因为她很早就在这种驳回方面进行了很多练习。正如她所预见的那样：当弗雷德被要求欣赏书房的配件，而她被要求欣赏蜘蛛时，费勒布拉泽先生说——

‘Wait here a minute or two. I am going to look out an engraving which Fred is tall enough to hang for me. I shall be back in a few minutes.’ And then he went out. Nevertheless, the first word Fred said to Mary was—
‘在这里等一两分钟。我要去看一幅版画，弗雷德足够高，可以挂给我。我几分钟后就回来。”然后他就出去了。然而，弗雷德对玛丽说的第一句话是——

‘It is of no use, whatever I do, Mary. You are sure to marry Farebrother at last.’ There was some rage in his tone.
“无论我做什么都没有用，玛丽。 “你一定会嫁给费雷布拉泽的。”他的语气里带着些许愤怒。

‘What do you mean, Fred?’ Mary exclaimed indignantly, blushing deeply, and surprised out of all her readiness in reply.
“你这是什么意思，弗雷德？”玛丽愤怒地喊道，脸涨得通红，她对自己已经准备好回答感到惊讶。

‘It is impossible that you should not see it all clearly enough— you who see everything.’
“你不可能看不清楚这一切——你已经看到了一切。”

‘I only see that you are behaving very ill, Fred, in speaking so of Mr. Farebrother after he has pleaded your cause in every way. How can you have taken up such an idea?’
“我只看出，弗雷德，在费勒布拉泽先生以各种方式为你辩护之后，你却如此谈论他，这实在是太糟糕了。”你怎么会想到这个主意呢？

Fred was rather deep, in spite of his irritation. If Mary had really been unsuspicious, there was no good in telling her what Mrs. Garth-had said.
尽管弗雷德很恼火，但他的态度却相当深刻。如果玛丽真的没有起疑心，那么告诉她加斯太太所说的话也没有什么好处。

‘It follows as a matter of course,’ he replied. ‘When you are continually seeing a man who beats me in everything, and whom you set up above everybody, I can have no fair chance.’
“这是理所当然的，”他回答道。 “当你不断看到一个人在所有事情上都击败我，并且你将他置于所有人之上时，我就没有公平的机会了。”

‘You are very ungrateful, Fred,’ said Mary. ‘I wish I had never told Mr. Farebrother that I cared for you in the least.’
“你真是忘恩负义，弗雷德，”玛丽说。 “我希望我从来没有告诉费雷布拉泽先生我至少关心你。”

‘No, I am not ungrateful; I should be the happiest fellow in the world if it were not for this. I told your father everything, and he was very kind; he treated me as if I were his son. I could go at the work with a will, writing and everything, if it were not for this.’
‘不，我并不是忘恩负义；如果没有这个，我应该是世界上最幸福的人。我把一切都告诉了你父亲，他非常友善；他对待我就像我是他的儿子一样。如果不是因为这个，我可以带着意志去工作，写作等等。

‘For this? for what?’ said Mary, imagining now that something specific must have been said or done.
'为了这？ “为什么？”玛丽问道，她想象着一定已经说了或做了一些特定的事情。

‘This dreadful certainty that I shall be bowled out by Farebrother.’ Mary was appeased by her inclination to laugh.
“我肯定会被费雷布拉泽击倒。”玛丽因为想笑而安息了。

‘Fred,’ she said, peeping round to catch his eyes, which were sulkily turned away from her, ‘you are too delightfully ridiculous. If you were not such a charming simpleton, what a temptation this would be to play the wicked coquette, and let you suppose that somebody besides you has made love to me.’
“弗雷德，”她说，环顾四周，与他的目光对视，他的目光阴沉地转开，“你太可笑了。”如果你不是这样一个迷人的傻瓜，那么，你会想尽一切办法去卖弄风骚，让你以为除了你之外还有人和我做爱。”

‘Do you really like me best, Mary?’ said Fred, turning eyes full of affection on her, and trying to take her hand.
“你真的最喜欢我吗，玛丽？”弗雷德说，用充满爱意的目光看着她，并试图握住她的手。

‘I don’t like you at all at this moment,’ said Mary, retreating, and putting her hands behind her. ‘I only said that no mortal ever made love to me besides you. And that is no argument that a very wise man ever will,’ she ended, merrily.
“我现在一点也不喜欢你。”玛丽说着，向后退了一步，双手放在身后。 “我只是说，除了你之外，没有任何凡人与我做过爱。这不是一个非常聪明的人会做的争论，”她愉快地结束道。

‘I wish you would tell me that you could not possibly ever think of him,’ said Fred.
“我希望你能告诉我，你不可能想到他，”弗雷德说。

‘Never dare to mention this any more to me, Fred,’ said Mary, getting serious again. ‘I don’t know whether it is more stupid or ungenerous in you not to see that Mr: Farebrother has left us together on purpose that we might speak freely. I am disappointed that you should be so blind to his delicate feeling.’
“再也不敢对我提起这件事了，弗雷德。”玛丽再次严肃起来。 “我不知道你是否更愚蠢或更不慷慨，因为你没有看到费雷兄弟先生故意让我们在一起，以便我们可以自由发言。我很失望你竟然对他微妙的感情如此视而不见。

There was no time to say any more before Mr. Farebrother came back with the engraving; and Fred had to return to the drawing-room still with a jealous dread in his heart, but yet with comforting arguments from Mary’s words and manner. The result of the conversation was on the whole more painful to Mary: inevitably her attention had taken a new attitude, and she saw the possibility of new interpretations. She was in a position in which she seemed to herself to be slighting Mr. Farebrother, and this, in relation to a man who is much honored, is always dangerous to the firmness of a grateful woman. To have a reason for going home the next day was a relief, for Mary earnestly desired to be always clear that she loved Fred best. When a tender affection has been storing itself in us through many of our years, the idea that we could accept any exchange for it seems to be a cheapening of our lives. And we can set a watch over our affections and our constancy as we can over other treasures.
还没来得及多说什么，费雷布拉泽先生就带着那幅版画回来了。弗雷德不得不回到客厅，心中仍然充满嫉妒的恐惧，但玛丽的言语和态度却带来了安慰。总的来说，谈话的结果对玛丽来说更加痛苦：她的注意力不可避免地采取了新的态度，她看到了新的解释的可能性。她觉得自己似乎在轻视费雷布拉泽先生，而这对于一个非常受人尊敬的男人来说，对于一个心怀感激的女人的坚定来说总是危险的。第二天有理由回家让她松了口气，因为玛丽热切地希望始终清楚地表明她最爱弗雷德。当一种温柔的感情多年来一直在我们心中储存时，我们可以接受任何交换的想法似乎是在贬低我们的生命。我们可以像看管其他宝藏一样看管自己的感情和忠诚。

‘Fred has lost all his other expectations; he must keep this,’ Mary said to herself, with a smile curling her lips. It was impossible to help fleeting visions of another kind—new dignities and an acknowledged value of which she had often felt the absence. But these things with Fred outside them, Fred forsaken and looking sad for the want of her, could never tempt her deliberate thought.
“弗雷德已经失去了他所有其他的期望；他必须保留这个，”玛丽自言自语道，嘴角挂着微笑。她无法控制另一种转瞬即逝的愿景——新的尊严和她经常感到缺失的公认的价值。但弗雷德在外面的这些事情，弗雷德被抛弃了，因为缺少她而显得悲伤，永远无法引起她深思熟虑。

CHAPTER LVIII
第四十八章

‘For there can live no hatred in thine eye,
‘因为你的眼中没有仇恨，

Therefore in that I cannot know thy change:
因此我无法知道你的改变：

In many’s looks the false heart’s history
在许多人看来，虚假之心的历史

Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange:
心情、皱眉和皱纹都写得很奇怪：

But Heaven in thy creation did decree
但天堂在你的创造物中确实规定了

That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell:
在你的脸上永远洋溢着甜蜜的爱：

Whate’er thy thoughts or thy heart’s workings be
无论你的想法或内心的运作是什么

Thy looks should nothing thence but sweetness tell.’
从你的外表来看，除了甜蜜之外什么也没有。

—SHAKESPEARE: Sonnets.
——莎士比亚：十四行诗。

At the time when Mr. Vincy uttered that presentiment about Rosamond, she herself had never had the idea that she should be driven to make the sort of appeal which he foresaw. She had not yet had any anxiety about ways and means, although her domestic life had been expensive as well as eventful. Her baby had been born prematurely, and all the embroidered robes and caps had to be laid by in darkness. This misfortune was attributed entirely to her having persisted in going out on horseback one day when her husband had desired her not to do so; but it must not be supposed that she had shown temper on the occasion, or rudely told him that she would do as she liked.
当文西先生说出对罗莎蒙德的预感时，她自己从来没有想过她会被迫做出他所预见的那种呼吁。尽管她的家庭生活既昂贵又多事，但她对方式方法还没有任何焦虑。她的孩子早产了，所有的绣衣和帽子都得放在黑暗中。这一不幸完全归因于有一天她坚持骑马外出，而她的丈夫却希望她不要这样做；但绝不能认为她当时发脾气了，或者粗鲁地告诉他，她想做什么就做什么。

What led her particularly to desire horse-exercise was a visit from Captain Lydgate, the baronet’s third son, who, I am sorry to say, was detested by our Tertius of that name as a vapid fop ‘parting his hair from brow to nape in a despicable fashion’ (not followed by Tertius himself), and showing an ignorant security that he knew the proper thing to say on every topic. Lydgate inwardly cursed his own folly that he had drawn down this visit by consenting to go to his uncle’s on the wedding-tour, and he made himself rather disagreeable to Rosamond by saying so in private. For to Rosamond this visit was a source of unprecedented but gracefully concealed exultation. She was so intensely conscious of having a cousin who was a baronet’s son staying in the house, that she imagined the knowledge of what was implied by his presence to be diffused through all other minds; and when she introduced Captain Lydgate to her guests, she had a placid sense that his rank penetrated them as if it had been an odor. The satisfaction was enough for the time to melt away some disappointment in the conditions of marriage with a medical man even of good birth: it seemed now that her marriage was visibly as well as ideally floating her above the Middlemarch level, and the future looked bright with letters and visits to and from Quallingham, and vague advancement in consequence for Tertius. Especially as, probably at the Captain’s suggestion, his married sister, Mrs. Mengan, had come with her maid, and stayed two nights on her way from town. Hence it was clearly worth while for Rosamond to take pains with her music and the careful selection of her lace.
使她特别渴望骑马的是从男爵的第三个儿子利德盖特船长的来访，我很遗憾地说，我们的特蒂乌斯讨厌他，因为他是一个无趣的纨绔子弟，“把头发从额头分开到颈背”。一种卑鄙的时尚”（特蒂乌斯本人没有遵循），并表现出一种无知的安全感，他知道在每个话题上该说些什么。利德盖特心里咒骂自己的愚蠢行为，因为他同意去叔叔家参加婚礼，从而拖延了这次访问，而他私下这么说，让罗莎蒙德很不高兴。对于罗莎蒙德来说，这次访问是一种前所未有的、但优雅地隐藏着的狂喜之源。她如此强烈地意识到有一个从男爵的儿子表弟住在这所房子里，她想象着他的存在所暗示的知识会传播到所有其他人的头脑中；当她把利德盖特船长介绍给她的客人时，她有一种平静的感觉，他的地位就像一种气味一样渗透到他们之中。这种满足感足以消除对与医生的婚姻条件的一些失望，即使是出身名门的医生：现在看来，她的婚姻明显而且理想地使她高于米德尔马契的水平，未来看起来很光明奎林汉姆来往信件和来访，特蒂乌斯的晋升也因此变得模糊。尤其是，可能是在船长的建议下，他已婚的妹妹孟甘夫人带着她的女仆来到了这里，并在从城里回来的路上住了两个晚上。因此，罗莎蒙德在音乐和蕾丝花边的精心选择上下功夫显然是值得的。

As to Captain Lydgate himself, his low brow, his aquiline nose bent on one side, and his rather heavy utterance, might have been disadvantageous in any young gentleman who had not a military bearing and mustache to give him what is doted on by some flower-like blond heads as ‘style.’ He had, moreover, that sort of high-breeding which consists in being free from the petty solicitudes of middle-class gentility, and he was a great critic of feminine charms. Rosamond delighted in his admiration now even more than she had done at Quallingham, and he found it easy to spend several hours of the day in flirting with her. The visit altogether was one of the pleasantest larks he had ever had, not the less so perhaps because he suspected that his queer cousin Tertius wished him away: though Lydgate, who would rather (hyperbolically speaking) have died than have failed in polite hospitality, suppressed his dislike, and only pretended generally not to hear what the gallant officer said, consigning the task of answering him to Rosamond. For he was not at all a jealous husband, and preferred leaving a feather-headed young gentleman alone with his wife to bearing him company.
至于利德盖特上尉本人，他的眉毛低低，鹰钩鼻向一侧弯曲，说话的语气相当沉重，对于任何一个没有军人气质和胡须的年轻绅士来说，可能会处于不利地位，无法给他一些花朵所喜爱的东西。 ——像金发一样的“风格”。此外，他还具有那种高教养，即摆脱了中产阶级绅士的琐碎忧虑，而且他是女性魅力的伟大批评家。罗莎蒙德现在对他的钦佩感到高兴，甚至比她在夸林汉姆时更高兴，他发现每天花几个小时与她调情很容易。这次访问总体上是他经历过的最愉快的乐趣之一，尤其是因为他怀疑他的古怪表弟特蒂乌斯希望他离开：尽管利德盖特宁愿（夸张地说）死也不愿没有礼貌的招待，他抑制住了自己的厌恶情绪，只是装作没听见那位英勇的军官所说的话，把回答他的任务交给了罗莎蒙德。因为他根本不是一个嫉妒的丈夫，他宁愿让一个轻率的年轻绅士单独和他的妻子在一起，也不愿陪伴他。

‘I wish you would talk more to the Captain at dinner, Tertius,’ said Rosamond, one evening when the important guest was gone to Loamford to see some brother officers stationed there. ‘You really look so absent sometimes—you seem to be seeing through his head into something behind it, instead of looking at him.’
“特蒂斯，我希望你在晚餐时能和上尉多谈谈。”一天晚上，当这位重要的客人去洛姆福德看望驻扎在那里的一些兄弟军官时，罗莎蒙德说道。 “有时你看起来真的很心不在焉——你似乎在透过他的脑袋看到背后的东西，而不是看着他。”

‘My dear Rosy, you don’t expect me to talk much to such a conceited ass as that, I hope,’ said Lydgate, brusquely. ‘If he got his head broken, I might look at it with interest, not before.’
“我亲爱的罗西，我希望你不会指望我会对这样一个自负的蠢货说太多话，”利德盖特粗鲁地说。 “如果他的头被打破了，我可能会感兴趣地看着它，而不是以前。”

‘I cannot conceive why you should speak of your cousin so contemptuously,’ said Rosamond, her fingers moving at her work while she spoke with a mild gravity which had a touch of disdain in it.
“我不明白你为什么要如此轻蔑地谈论你的表弟，”罗莎蒙德说，她的手指在工作，说话的语气温和，带着一丝轻蔑。

‘Ask Ladislaw if he doesn’t think your Captain the greatest bore he ever met with. Ladislaw has almost forsaken the house since he came.’
“问问拉迪斯瓦夫，他是否认为你的船长是他见过的最讨厌的人。自从拉迪斯瓦来了之后，他几乎就放弃了这所房子。”

Rosamond thought she knew perfectly well why Mr. Ladislaw disliked the Captain: he was jealous, and she liked his being jealous.
罗莎蒙德认为她非常清楚为什么拉迪斯瓦先生不喜欢船长：他嫉妒，而她喜欢他嫉妒。

‘It is impossible to say what will suit eccentric persons,’ she answered, ‘but in my opinion Captain Lydgate is a thorough gentleman, and I think you ought not, out of respect to Sir Godwin, to treat him with neglect.’
“不可能说什么适合古怪的人，”她回答道，“但在我看来，利德盖特船长是一位彻底的绅士，出于对戈德温爵士的尊重，我认为你不应该忽视他。”

‘No, dear; but we have had dinners for him. And he comes in and goes out as he likes. He doesn’t want me.’
'不亲爱的;但我们已经为他吃过晚饭了。他随心所欲地进出。他不想要我了。

‘Still, when he is in the room, you might show him more attention. He may not be a phoenix of cleverness in your sense; his profession is different; but it would be all the better for you to talk a little on his subjects. I think his conversation is quite agreeable. And he is anything but an unprincipled man.’
“不过，当他在房间里时，你可能会更加关注他。他可能不是你意义上的聪明凤凰；他的职业不同；但你最好能谈谈他的话题。我认为他的谈话非常愉快。他绝对不是一个没有原则的人。

‘The fact is, you would wish me to be a little more like him, Rosy,’ said Lydgate, in a sort of resigned murmur, with a smile which was not exactly tender, and certainly not merry. Rosamond was silent and did not smile again; but the lovely curves of her face looked good-tempered enough without smiling.
“事实上，你希望我能更像他一点，罗西，”利德盖特带着一种听天由命的低声说道，脸上的笑容并不十分温柔，当然也谈不上快乐。罗莎蒙德沉默了，没有再微笑。但她脸上可爱的曲线，看起来脾气很好，没有微笑。

Those words of Lydgate’s were like a sad milestone marking how far he had travelled from his old dreamland, in which Rosamond Vincy appeared to be that perfect piece of womanhood who would reverence her husband’s mind after the fashion of an accomplished mermaid, using her comb and looking-glass and singing her song for the relaxation of his adored wisdom alone. He had begun to distinguish between that imagined adoration and the attraction towards a man’s talent because it gives him prestige, and is like an order in his button-hole or an Honorable before his name.
利德盖特的这句话就像一个悲伤的里程碑，标志着他已经从他的旧梦境走了多远，在梦境中，罗莎蒙德·文西似乎是一位完美的女性，她会像一个多才多艺的美人鱼那样尊重丈夫的思想，用她的梳子和梳子梳头。看着镜子，唱着她的歌，只为了放松他所崇拜的智慧。他开始区分那种想象中的崇拜和对一个人才华的吸引力，因为这给了他威望，就像他扣眼上的命令或他名字前的荣誉。

It might have been supposed that Rosamond had travelled too, since she had found the pointless conversation of Mr. Ned Plymdale perfectly wearisome; but to most mortals there is a stupidity which is unendurable and a stupidity which is altogether acceptable— else, indeed, what would become of social bonds? Captain Lydgate’s stupidity was delicately scented, carried itself with ‘style,’ talked with a good accent, and was closely related to Sir Godwin. Rosamond found it quite agreeable and caught many of its phrases.
人们可能会认为罗莎蒙德也旅行了，因为她发现内德·普林代尔先生毫无意义的谈话非常令人厌烦。但对于大多数凡人来说，有一种愚蠢是无法忍受的，也有一种愚蠢是完全可以接受的——否则，社会纽带会变成什么样子呢？利德盖特船长的愚蠢散发着微妙的气味，举止很有“风格”，说话有很好的口音，而且与戈德温爵士关系密切。罗莎蒙德觉得这很令人愉快，并听懂了其中的许多短语。

Therefore since Rosamond, as we know, was fond of horseback, there were plenty of reasons why she should be tempted to resume her riding when Captain Lydgate, who had ordered his man with two horses to follow him and put up at the ‘Green Dragon,’ begged her to go out on the gray which he warranted to be gentle and trained to carry a lady—indeed, he had bought it for his sister, and was taking it to Quallingham. Rosamond went out the first time without telling her husband, and came back before his return; but the ride had been so thorough a success, and she declared herself so much the better in consequence, that he was informed of it with full reliance on his consent that she should go riding again.
因此，正如我们所知，罗莎蒙德喜欢骑马，当利德盖特船长命令他的人带着两匹马跟随他并驻扎在“绿龙”时，她有很多理由想继续骑马。 ，”恳求她骑上那辆灰色的车出去，他保证这辆灰色的车很温柔，而且训练有素，可以载一位女士——事实上，这是他为他妹妹买的，正准备带它去奎林汉姆。罗莎蒙德第一次出去没有告诉她的丈夫，并在他回来之前回来了。但这次骑行非常成功，她宣称自己因此变得更好，以至于他完全相信他的同意，才得知她应该再次骑行。

On the contrary Lydgate was more than hurt—he was utterly confounded that she had risked herself on a strange horse without referring the matter to his wish. After the first almost thundering exclamations of astonishment, which sufficiently warned Rosamond of what was coming, he was silent for some moments.
相反，利德盖特不仅受伤了——他完全感到困惑的是，她竟然没有按照他的意愿来处理这件事，就骑在一匹陌生的马身上冒险。在第一声近乎雷鸣般的惊呼声充分警告罗莎蒙德即将发生的事情之后，他沉默了一会儿。

‘However, you have come back safely,’ he said, at last, in a decisive tone. ‘You will not go again, Rosy; that is understood. If it were the quietest, most familiar horse in the world, there would always be the chance of accident. And you know very well that I wished you to give up riding the roan on that account.’
“不过，你已经安全回来了。”他最后语气果断地说。 “你不会再去了，罗西；这是可以理解的。如果它是世界上最安静、最熟悉的马，那么总会有发生意外的可能。你很清楚，我希望你因此放弃骑马。

‘But there is the chance of accident indoors, Tertius.’
“但是在室内有可能发生事故，特蒂斯。”

‘My darling, don’t talk nonsense,’ said Lydgate, in an imploring tone; ‘surely I am the person to judge for you. I think it is enough that I say you are not to go again.’
“亲爱的，别胡说八道，”利德盖特用恳求的语气说道。 ‘我当然是为你做出判断的人。我想我说你不要再去了就足够了。

Rosamond was arranging her hair before dinner, and the reflection of her head in the glass showed no change in its loveliness except a little turning aside of the long neck. Lydgate had been moving about with his hands in his pockets, and now paused near her, as if he awaited some assurance.
晚饭前，罗莎蒙德正在整理头发，镜子里倒映出的她的头，除了长长的脖子稍稍侧向一边外，美丽的样子没有任何变化。利德盖特一直双手插在口袋里走来走去，现在在她身边停了下来，好像在等待某种保证。

‘I wish you would fasten up my plaits, dear,’ said Rosamond, letting her arms fall with a little sigh, so as to make a husband ashamed of standing there like a brute. Lydgate had often fastened the plaits before, being among the deftest of men with his large finely formed fingers. He swept up the soft festoons of plaits and fastened in the tall comb (to such uses do men come!); and what could he do then but kiss the exquisite nape which was shown in all its delicate curves? But when we do what we have done before, it is often with a difference. Lydgate was still angry, and had not forgotten his point.
“我希望你能把我的辫子扎紧，亲爱的，”罗莎蒙德说，轻轻叹了口气，放下了她的手臂，以便让丈夫为像畜生一样站在那里感到羞愧。利德盖特以前经常把辫子系紧，他是手指粗大、形状最灵巧的人之一。他把柔软的辫子扫起来，固定在高高的梳子上（男人就是用来做这种事的！）；那么，除了亲吻那曲线优美的颈背之外，他还能做什么呢？但当我们做以前做过的事情时，往往会有所不同。利德盖特仍然很生气，并没有忘记他的观点。

‘I shall tell the Captain that he ought to have known better than offer you his horse,’ he said, as he moved away.
“我会告诉船长，他应该更清楚地知道，不应该把他的马交给你，”他一边说，一边走开。

‘I beg you will not do anything of the kind, Tertius,’ said Rosamond, looking at him with something more marked than usual in her speech. ‘It will be treating me as if I were a child. Promise that you will leave the subject to me.’
“我请求你不要做这种事，特提乌斯。”罗莎蒙德看着他，语气比平时更加​​明显。 ‘它会像对待孩子一样对待我。答应我，你会把这个话题留给我。

There did seem to be some truth in her objection. Lydgate said, ‘Very well,’ with a surly obedience, and thus the discussion ended with his promising Rosamond, and not with her promising him.
她的反对似乎确实有一定道理。利德盖特乖乖地顺从地说：“很好。”因此，讨论以他对罗莎蒙德的承诺而结束，而不是以她对他的承诺。

In fact, she had been determined not to promise. Rosamond had that victorious obstinacy which never wastes its energy in impetuous resistance. What she liked to do was to her the right thing, and all her cleverness was directed to getting the means of doing it. She meant to go out riding again on the gray, and she did go on the next opportunity of her husband’s absence, not intending that he should know until it was late enough not to signify to her. The temptation was certainly great: she was very fond of the exercise, and the gratification of riding on a fine horse, with Captain Lydgate, Sir Godwin’s son, on another fine horse by her side, and of being met in this position by any one but her husband, was something as good as her dreams before marriage: moreover she was riveting the connection with the family at Quallingham, which must be a wise thing to do.
事实上，她已经坚决不答应了。罗莎蒙德有一种胜利的固执，从不把精力浪费在鲁莽的抵抗上。她喜欢做的事情对她来说是正确的，她所有的聪明才智都集中在找到做这件事的方法上。她打算再次骑着灰色的马出去，她确实抓住了丈夫不在的下一次机会，不想让他知道，直到已经太晚了，不能向她表示。诱惑当然是巨大的：她非常喜欢这种锻炼，以及骑在一匹好马上的满足感，戈德温爵士的儿子利德盖特上尉骑着另一匹好马在她身边，并且在这个位置上遇到任何人都会感到满足但她的丈夫，正如她婚前的梦想一样美好：此外，她正在与夸林厄姆的家人建立联系，这一定是明智之举。

But the gentle gray, unprepared for the crash of a tree that was being felled on the edge of Halsell wood, took fright, and caused a worse fright to Rosamond, leading finally to the loss of her baby. Lydgate could not show his anger towards her, but he was rather bearish to the Captain, whose visit naturally soon came to an end.
但是，温柔的灰色小鸟对哈塞尔树林边缘的一棵被砍倒的树毫无准备，受到了惊吓，给罗莎蒙德带来了更严重的惊吓，最终导致她失去了孩子。利德盖特无法对她表现出愤怒，但对船长却颇为看淡，船长的来访自然很快就结束了。

In all future conversations on the subject, Rosamond was mildly certain that the ride had made no difference, and that if she had stayed at home the same symptoms would have come on and would have ended in the same way, because she had felt something like them before.
在以后所有关于这个话题的谈话中，罗莎蒙德都温和地肯定，这次乘车没有什么区别，如果她呆在家里，同样的症状也会出现，并会以同样的方式结束，因为她有过类似的感觉他们之前。

Lydgate could only say, ‘Poor, poor darling!’—but he secretly wondered over the terrible tenacity of this mild creature. There was gathering within him an amazed sense of his powerlessness over Rosamond. His superior knowledge and mental force, instead of being, as he had imagined, a shrine to consult on all occasions, was simply set aside on every practical question. He had regarded Rosamond’s cleverness as precisely of the receptive kind which became a woman. He was now beginning to find out what that cleverness was—what was the shape into which it had run as into a close network aloof and independent. No one quicker than Rosamond to see causes and effects which lay within the track of her own tastes and interests: she had seen clearly Lydgate’s preeminence in Middlemarch society, and could go on imaginatively tracing still more agreeable social effects when his talent should have advanced him; but for her, his professional and scientific ambition had no other relation to these desirable effects than if they had been the fortunate discovery of an ill-smelling oil. And that oil apart, with which she had nothing to do, of course she believed in her own opinion more than she did in his. Lydgate was astounded to find in numberless trifling matters, as well as in this last serious case of the riding, that affection did not make her compliant. He had no doubt that the affection was there, and had no presentiment that he had done anything to repel it. For his own part he said to himself that he loved her as tenderly as ever, and could make up his mind-to her negations; but—well! Lydgate was much worried, and conscious of new elements in his life as noxious to him as an inlet of mud to a creature that has been used to breathe and bathe and dart after its illuminated prey in the clearest of waters.
利德盖特只能说：“可怜，可怜的亲爱的！”——但他暗自对这个温和生物的可怕顽强感到惊讶。他心中涌起一种惊讶的感觉，他对罗莎蒙德无能为力。他卓越的知识和精神力量，并没有像他想象的那样，成为一个可以在任何场合咨询的圣地，而是在每个实际问题上被简单地搁置一旁。他认为罗莎蒙德的聪明正是女人所具有的善于接受的聪明。他现在开始弄清楚这种聪明是什么——它以何种形式融入到一个冷漠而独立的紧密网络中。没有人比罗莎蒙德更快地看到了她自己的品味和兴趣中的因果关系：她清楚地看到了利德盖特在米德尔马契社会中的卓越地位，并且当他的才华应该使他进步时，她可以继续富有想象力地追踪更令人愉快的社会影响;但对她来说，他的专业和科学野心与这些理想的效果没有其他关系，就像幸运地发现了一种难闻的油一样。除了那些与她无关的油之外，她当然更相信自己的观点，而不是他的观点。利德盖特惊讶地发现，在无数的琐事中，以及在这最后一次严重的骑马事件中，这种感情并没有让她顺从。他毫不怀疑这种感情的存在，也没有预感到自己做了什么事情来排斥这种感情。就他而言，他对自己说，他一如既往地温柔地爱着她，并且可以下定决心——接受她的否定；但是——好吧！ 利德盖特非常担心，他意识到生活中的新元素对他来说是有害的，就像泥浆对一种生物的入口一样有害，这种生物习惯于在最清澈的水域中呼吸、沐浴和追赶被照亮的猎物。

Rosamond was soon looking lovelier than ever at her worktable, enjoying drives in her father’s phaeton and thinking it likely that she might be invited to Quallingham. She knew that she was a much more exquisite ornament to the drawing-room there than any daughter of the family, and in reflecting that the gentlemen were aware of that, did not perhaps sufficiently consider whether the ladies would be eager to see themselves surpassed.
罗莎蒙德很快在她的工作台上看起来比以往任何时候都更加可爱，享受着驾驶她父亲的敞篷车的乐趣，并认为她可能会被邀请到奎林厄姆。她知道自己是客厅里的一个比任何一个女儿都要精致的装饰品，在反映先生们意识到这一点时，也许没有充分考虑女士们是否会渴望看到自己被超越。

Lydgate, relieved from anxiety about her, relapsed into what she inwardly called his moodiness—a name which to her covered his thoughtful preoccupation with other subjects than herself, as well as that uneasy look of the brow and distaste for all ordinary things as if they were mixed with bitter herbs, which really made a sort of weather-glass to his vexation and foreboding. These latter states of mind had one cause amongst others, which he had generously but mistakenly avoided mentioning to Rosamond, lest it should affect her health and spirits. Between him and her indeed there was that total missing of each other’s mental track, which is too evidently possible even between persons who are continually thinking of each other. To Lydgate it seemed that he had been spending month after month in sacrificing more than half of his best intent and best power to his tenderness for Rosamond; bearing her little claims and interruptions without impatience, and, above all, bearing without betrayal of bitterness to look through less and less of interfering illusion at the blank unreflecting surface her mind presented to his ardor for the more impersonal ends of his profession and his scientific study, an ardor which he had fancied that the ideal wife must somehow worship as sublime, though not in the least knowing why. But his endurance was mingled with a self-discontent which, if we know how to be candid, we shall confess to make more than half our bitterness under grievances, wife or husband included. It always remains true that if we had been greater, circumstance would have been less strong against us. Lydgate was aware that his concessions to Rosamond were often little more than the lapse of slackening resolution, the creeping paralysis apt to seize an enthusiasm which is out of adjustment to a constant portion of our lives. And on Lydgate’s enthusiasm there was constantly pressing not a simple weight of sorrow, but the biting presence of a petty degrading care, such as casts the blight of irony over all higher effort.
利德盖特从对她的焦虑中解脱出来，又陷入了她内心所说的喜怒无常的状态——对她来说，这个名字掩盖了他对除她自己之外的其他主题的深思熟虑的关注，以及眉宇间的不安表情和对所有平凡事物的厌恶，就好像它们是它们一样。与苦草混合在一起，这确实为他的烦恼和不祥的预感制造了一种晴雨表。后一种心态有一个原因，他慷慨地但错误地避免向罗莎蒙德提及，以免影响她的健康和精神。他和她之间确实完全失去了彼此的心理轨迹，即使在不断想着对方的人之间，这种情况也很明显是可能的。在利德盖特看来，他似乎花了一月又一月的时间，为了对罗莎蒙德的温柔而牺牲了一半以上的最佳意图和最佳力量；毫不不耐烦地承受她的小要求和打断，最重要的是，忍受着不流露的痛苦，在她的头脑向他的热情呈现出的空白的、不反光的表面上，越来越少地看到干扰幻觉，以实现他的职业和科学的更客观的目标。他认为理想的妻子必须以某种方式将这种热情视为崇高的崇拜，尽管他根本不知道为什么。但他的忍耐中夹杂着一种自我不满，如果我们知道如何坦白的话，我们就会承认，我们一半以上的痛苦都是来自于委屈，包括妻子或丈夫。事实始终是这样的：如果我们变得更伟大，环境对我们的不利就不会那么严重。 利德盖特意识到，他对罗莎蒙德的让步往往只不过是决心的松懈，以及容易抓住与我们生活中的固定部分不适应的热情的逐渐麻痹。利德盖特的热情中不断压着的不是简单的悲伤，而是一种微不足道的有辱人格的关怀，例如对所有更高的努力投以讽刺的枯萎。

This was the care which he had hitherto abstained from mentioning to Rosamond; and he believed, with some wonder, that it had never entered her mind, though certainly no difficulty could be less mysterious. It was an inference with a conspicuous handle to it, and had been easily drawn by indifferent observers, that Lydgate was in debt; and he could not succeed in keeping out of his mind for long together that he was every day getting deeper into that swamp, which tempts men towards it with such a pretty covering of flowers and verdure. It is wonderful how soon a man gets up to his chin there—in a condition in which, spite of himself, he is forced to think chiefly of release, though he had a scheme of the universe in his soul.
这是迄今为止他一直没有向罗莎蒙德提及的忧虑。他有些惊讶地相信，她从来没有想到过这个问题，尽管毫无疑问，没有什么困难比这更神秘了。这是一个显而易见的推论，冷漠的观察者很容易得出这样的结论：利德盖特负债累累。他无法长久地忘记自己每天都在向那片沼泽深处走去，而这片覆盖着如此美丽的鲜花和青翠的沼泽吸引着人们走向它。令人惊奇的是，一个人很快就抬起了下巴——在这种情况下，他不由自主地被迫主要考虑释放，尽管他的灵魂中对宇宙有一个计划。

Eighteen months ago Lydgate was poor, but had never known the eager want of small sums, and felt rather a burning contempt for any one who descended a step in order to gain them. He was now experiencing something worse than a simple deficit: he was assailed by the vulgar hateful trials of a man who has bought and used a great many things which might have been done without, and which he is unable to pay for, though the demand for payment has become pressing.
十八个月前，利德盖特很穷，但从来不知道急需小钱，并且对任何为了获得这些钱而下台阶的人感到一种强烈的蔑视。他现在正经历着比简单的赤字更糟糕的事情：他受到了一个人的粗俗可恨的考验的袭击，这个人购买并使用了很多本来可以不用的东西，而且他无法支付，尽管需求付款已变得紧迫。

How this came about may be easily seen without much arithmetic or knowledge of prices. When a man in setting up a house and preparing for marriage finds that his furniture and other initial expenses come to between four and five hundred pounds more than he has capital to pay for; when at the end of a year it appears that his household expenses, horses and et caeteras, amount to nearly a thousand, while the proceeds of the practice reckoned from the old books to be worth eight hundred per annum have sunk like a summer pond and make hardly five hundred, chiefly in unpaid entries, the plain inference is that, whether he minds it or not, he is in debt. Those were less expensive times than our own, and provincial life was comparatively modest; but the ease with which a medical man who had lately bought a practice, who thought that he was obliged to keep two horses, whose table was supplied without stint, and who paid an insurance on his life and a high rent for house and garden, might find his expenses doubling his receipts, can be conceived by any one who does not think these details beneath his consideration. Rosamond, accustomed from her to an extravagant household, thought that good housekeeping consisted simply in ordering the best of everything—nothing else ‘answered;’ and Lydgate supposed that ‘if things were done at all, they must be done properly’— he did not see how they were to live otherwise. If each head of household expenditure had been mentioned to him beforehand, he would have probably observed that ‘it could hardly come to much,’ and if any one had suggested a saving on a particular article— for example, the substitution of cheap fish for dear— it would have appeared to him simply a penny-wise, mean notion. Rosamond, even without such an occasion as Captain Lydgate’s visit, was fond of giving invitations, and Lydgate, though he often thought the guests tiresome, did not interfere. This sociability seemed a necessary part of professional prudence, and the entertainment must be suitable. It is true Lydgate was constantly visiting the homes of the poor and adjusting his prescriptions of diet to their small means; but, dear me! has it not by this time ceased to be remarkable—is it not rather that we expect in men, that they should have numerous strands of experience lying side by side and never compare them with each other? Expenditure—like ugliness and errors—becomes a totally new thing when we attach our own personality to it, and measure it by that wide difference which is manifest (in our own sensations) between ourselves and others. Lydgate believed himself to be careless about his dress, and he despised a man who calculated the effects of his costume; it seemed to him only a matter of course that he had abundance of fresh garments— such things were naturally ordered in sheaves. It must be remembered that he had never hitherto felt the check of importunate debt, and he walked by habit, not by self-criticism. But the check had come.
无需太多算术或价格知识，就可以很容易地看出这是如何发生的。当一个男人在盖房子、准备结婚时，发现他的家具和其他初始费用比他的资本多出四到五百英镑；到了年底，他的家庭开支，马匹等，已达近千，而根据旧书计算，每年的练习收入价值八百，却像夏天的池塘一样沉没了，收入还不到五百，主要是未付款项，显而易见的推论是，无论他介意与否，他都欠债了。那是一个比我们现在生活更便宜的时代，外省人的生活也相对简朴。但是，一个最近买了诊所的医生，他认为他必须养两匹马，他的餐桌是无限供应的，他为自己支付了生命保险，并支付了房屋和花园的高额租金，任何一个不认为这些细节不值得考虑的人都可以想象，他可能会发现他的开支使他的收入增加一倍。罗莎蒙德从小就习惯了奢侈的家庭，认为良好的家务管理只是把每件事做到最好——没有其他“答案”；利德盖特认为“如果事情要做，就必须做得正确”——他做到了不知道他们要如何生活。如果事先向他提到每位户主的支出，他可能会说“这几乎不会有什么大不了”，如果有人建议在某种特定物品上节省开支——例如，用廉价的鱼代替亲爱的——在他看来，这只是一个省钱、卑鄙的想法。 罗莎蒙德即使没有像利德盖特船长来访这样的场合，也喜欢发出邀请，而利德盖特虽然经常认为客人很烦人，但并没有干涉。这种社交能力似乎是职业谨慎的必要组成部分，而且娱乐活动也必须适当。确实，利德盖特经常拜访穷人的家，并根据他们的小收入调整他的饮食处方。但是，亲爱的我！到了这个时候，这难道不是已经不再引人注目了吗？难道我们不希望人类拥有无数的经验并存，并且从不相互比较吗？当我们将自己的个性附加到支出上，并通过我们自己和他人之间明显的（在我们自己的感觉中）明显的差异来衡量支出时，支出就像丑陋和错误一样，变成了一个全新的事物。利德盖特认为自己对自己的着装很粗心，他鄙视一个精打细算服装效果的人。在他看来，他有大量的新衣服是理所当然的——这样的东西自然会成捆地订购。必须记住，迄今为止，他从未感受到过纠缠不休的债务的束缚，他是凭着习惯而不是自我批评来行事的。但支票来了。

Its novelty made it the more irritating. He was amazed, disgusted that conditions so foreign to all his purposes, so hatefully disconnected with the objects he cared to occupy himself with, should have lain in ambush and clutched him when he was unaware. And there was not only the actual debt; there was the certainty that in his present position he must go on deepening it. Two furnishing tradesmen at Brassing, whose bills had been incurred before his marriage, and whom uncalculated current expenses had ever since prevented him from paying, had repeatedly sent him unpleasant letters which had forced themselves on his attention. This could hardly have been more galling to any disposition than to Lydgate’s, with his intense pride—his dislike of asking a favor or being under an obligation to any one. He had scorned even to form conjectures about Mr. Vincy’s intentions on money matters, and nothing but extremity could have induced him to apply to his father-in-law, even if he had not been made aware in various indirect ways since his marriage that Mr. Vincy’s own affairs were not flourishing, and that the expectation of help from him would be resented. Some men easily trust in the readiness of friends; it had never in the former part of his life occurred to Lydgate that he should need to do so: he had never thought what borrowing would be to him; but now that the idea had entered his mind, he felt that he would rather incur any other hardship. In the mean time he had no money or prospects of money; and his practice was not getting more lucrative.
它的新颖性使它更令人恼火。他感到惊讶和厌恶，因为这样的环境与他的目的如此陌生，与他关心的事物如此可恨地脱节，竟然在他不知情的情况下埋伏并抓住了他。不仅有实际的债务，还有实际的债务。可以肯定的是，在他目前的职位上，他必须继续深化它。布拉辛的两个家具商人，他们的账单是在他结婚之前就已经产生的，而且从那时起，无法计算的经常开支使他无法支付，他们不断地给他寄来令人不愉快的信件，这些信件迫使他注意。对于任何人来说，这都比利德盖特的性格更令人恼火，因为他有着强烈的骄傲——他不喜欢向任何人寻求帮助或对任何人负有义务。他甚至不屑于猜测文西先生在金钱问题上的意图，除了极端的手段之外，没有什么可以促使他向他的岳父提出申请，即使自结婚以来他没有通过各种间接的方式意识到这一点。文西先生自己的事业并不顺利，期望得到他的帮助会遭到怨恨。有些人很容易相信朋友的意愿；有些人则很容易相信朋友的意愿。利德盖特在他的前半生中从未想到过他需要这样做：他从未想过借贷对他来说意味着什么；他从来没有想过借钱对他来说意味着什么；他从来没有想过借钱对他来说意味着什么。但现在这个想法已经进入他的脑海，他觉得自己宁愿再受任何其他的苦。与此同时，他没有钱，也没有赚钱的前景。他的做法并没有变得更有利可图。

No wonder that Lydgate had been unable to suppress all signs of inward trouble during the last few months, and now that Rosamond was regaining brilliant health, he meditated taking her entirely into confidence on his difficulties. New conversance with tradesmen’s bills had forced his reasoning into a new channel of comparison: he had begun to consider from a new point of view what was necessary and unnecessary in goods ordered, and to see that there must be some change of habits. How could such a change be made without Rosamond’s concurrence? The immediate occasion of opening the disagreeable fact to her was forced upon him.
难怪利德盖特在过去的几个月里一直无法抑制内心烦恼的所有迹象，现在罗莎蒙德的健康状况已经恢复得很好，他打算让她完全相信他的困难。对商人账单的新了解迫使他的推理进入了新的比较渠道：他开始从新的角度考虑订购的货物中哪些是必要的，哪些是不必要的，并发现习惯上必须有所改变。如果没有罗莎蒙德的同意，怎么可能做出这样的改变呢？他不得不立即向她透露这个令人不快的事实。

Having no money, and having privately sought advice as to what security could possibly be given by a man in his position, Lydgate had offered the one good security in his power to the less peremptory creditor, who was a silversmith and jeweller, and who consented to take on himself the upholsterer’s credit also, accepting interest for a given term. The security necessary was a bill of sale on the furniture of his house, which might make a creditor easy for a reasonable time about a debt amounting to less than four hundred pounds; and the silversmith, Mr. Dover, was willing to reduce it by taking back a portion of the plate and any other article which was as good as new. ‘Any other article’ was a phrase delicately implying jewellery, and more particularly some purple amethysts costing thirty pounds, which Lydgate had bought as a bridal present.
由于没有钱，利德盖特私下征求了关于处于他地位的人可以提供什么担保的建议，他向不太专横的债权人（一位银匠和珠宝商）提供了他权力中的唯一良好担保，债权人同意了也承担室内装饰商的信用，接受一定期限的利息。必要的担保是他房子里的家具的出售票据，这可以使债权人在合理的时间内轻松处理少于四百英镑的债务；银匠多佛先生愿​​意通过收回一部分盘子和任何其他像新的一样的物品来减少费用。 “任何其他物品”这个短语巧妙地暗示了珠宝，尤其是一些价值三十英镑的紫色紫水晶，这是利德盖特买来作为新娘礼物的。

Opinions may be divided as to his wisdom in making this present: some may think that it was a graceful attention to be expected from a man like Lydgate, and that the fault of any troublesome consequences lay in the pinched narrowness of provincial life at that time, which offered no conveniences for professional people whose fortune was not proportioned to their tastes; also, in Lydgate’s ridiculous fastidiousness about asking his friends for money.
对于他送出这份礼物的智慧，人们可能有不同的看法：有些人可能认为，像利德盖特这样的人会给予他一种优雅的关注，而任何麻烦后果的过错都在于当时外省生活的狭隘。 ，这对财富与品味不相称的专业人士没有提供任何便利；此外，利德盖特向朋友要钱的行为也极其挑剔。

However, it had seemed a question of no moment to him on that fine morning when he went to give a final order for plate: in the presence of other jewels enormously expensive, and as an addition to orders of which the amount had not been exactly calculated, thirty pounds for ornaments so exquisitely suited to Rosamond’s neck and arms could hardly appear excessive when there was no ready cash for it to exceed. But at this crisis Lydgate’s imagination could not help dwelling on the possibility of letting the amethysts take their place again among Mr. Dover’s stock, though he shrank from the idea of proposing this to Rosamond. Having been roused to discern consequences which he had never been in the habit of tracing, he was preparing to act on this discernment with some of the rigor (by no means all) that he would have applied in pursuing experiment. He was nerving himself to this rigor as he rode from Brassing, and meditated on the representations he must make to Rosamond.
然而，在那个晴朗的早晨，当他去下最后一份盘子订单时，这对他来说似乎是一个不重要的问题：在其他珠宝非常昂贵的情况下，并且作为订单的补充，其数量并不完全准确。经过计算，三十英镑的装饰品如此精美地适合罗莎蒙德的脖子和手臂，在没有现成的现金可以超出的情况下，几乎不会显得过多。但在这场危机中，利德盖特的想象力忍不住思考让紫水晶在多佛先生的库存中再次占据一席之地的可能性，尽管他不敢向罗莎蒙德提出这一建议。他被唤醒去辨别他从未习惯追踪的后果，并准备以他在进行实验时所采用的一些严谨（绝不是全部）的态度来对这种辨别采取行动。当他从布拉辛出发时，他就让自己对这种严格的要求感到振奋，并沉思着他必须向罗莎蒙德做出的陈述。

It was evening when he got home. He was intensely miserable, this strong man of nine-and-twenty and of many gifts. He was not saying angrily within himself that he had made a profound mistake; but the mistake was at work in him like a recognized chronic disease, mingling its uneasy importunities with every prospect, and enfeebling every thought. As he went along the passage to the drawing-room, he heard the piano and singing. Of course, Ladislaw was there. It was some weeks since Will had parted from Dorothea, yet he was still at the old post in Middlemarch. Lydgate had no objection in general to Ladislaw’s coming, but just now he was annoyed that he could not find his hearth free. When he opened the door the two singers went on towards the key-note, raising their eyes and looking at him indeed, but not regarding his entrance as an interruption. To a man galled with his harness as poor Lydgate was, it is not soothing to see two people warbling at him, as he comes in with the sense that the painful day has still pains in store. His face, already paler than usual, took on a scowl as he walked across the room and flung himself into a chair.
他回到家的时候已经是晚上了。这个九岁、二十岁、才华横溢的强壮男人，他非常痛苦。他并没有在内心愤怒地说自己犯了一个严重的错误；但这个错误却像一种公认的慢性病一样在他身上起作用，将其令人不安的强迫性与每一个前景混合在一起，并削弱了每一个思想。当他沿着过道走向客厅时，他听到了钢琴声和歌声。当然，拉迪斯瓦夫也在场。威尔与多萝西娅分手已经有几个星期了，但他仍然坚守在米德尔马契的老岗位上。利德盖特总体上并不反对拉迪斯瓦夫的到来，但刚才他因为找不到自己的壁炉而感到恼火。当他打开门时，两位歌手继续走向基调，抬起眼睛确实看着他，但并没有把他的进来视为打扰。对于像可怜的利德盖特一样被马具擦伤的人来说，看到两个人对他叽叽喳喳，这并不能让他感到安慰，因为他进来时感到痛苦的一天仍然有痛苦在等着他。当他穿过房间，一屁股坐到椅子上时，他的脸色已经比平时苍白了，脸上露出了愁容。

The singers feeling themselves excused by the fact that they had only three bars to sing, now turned round.
歌手们觉得自己可以原谅，因为他们只有三个小节要唱，现在转身了。

‘How are you, Lydgate?’ said Will, coming forward to shake hands.
“你好吗，利德盖特？”威尔说着，上前与我们握手。

Lydgate took his hand, but did not think it necessary to speak.
利德盖特握着他的手，但认为没有必要说话。

‘Have you dined, Tertius? I expected you much earlier,’ said Rosamond, who had already seen that her husband was in a ‘horrible humor.’ She seated herself in her usual place as she spoke.
“你吃过饭了吗，特蒂乌斯？ “我早就料到你会来了。”罗莎蒙德说道，她已经看出了她丈夫的“可怕的幽默感”。说话时，她坐在平常的位置上。

‘I have dined. I should like some tea, please,’ said Lydgate, curtly, still scowling and looking markedly at his legs stretched out before him.
‘我已经吃过饭了。我想喝点茶，谢谢。”利德盖特简短地说，仍然皱着眉头，明显地看着自己在面前伸展的双腿。

Will was too quick to need more. ‘I shall be off,’ he said, reaching his hat.
威尔动作太快，不需要更多。 “我要走了，”他边说边伸手去拿帽子。

‘Tea is coming,’ said Rosamond; ‘pray don’t go.’
“茶来了，”罗莎蒙德说。 “祈祷别走。”

‘Yes, Lydgate is bored,’ said Will, who had more comprehension of Lydgate than Rosamond had, and was not offended by his manner, easily imagining outdoor causes of annoyance.
“是的，利德盖特很无聊，”威尔说，他比罗莎蒙德更了解利德盖特，而且并没有被他的举止所冒犯，很容易想象出户外的烦恼原因。

‘There is the more need for you to stay,’ said Rosamond, playfully, and in her lightest accent; ‘he will not speak to me all the evening.’
“你更需要留下来，”罗莎蒙德用她最轻的口音开玩笑地说。 “他整个晚上都不跟我说话。”

‘Yes, Rosamond, I shall,’ said Lydgate, in his strong baritone. ‘I have some serious business to speak to you about.’
“是的，罗莎蒙德，我会的，”利德盖特用他有力的男中音说道。 “我有件正事要跟你说。”

No introduction of the business could have been less like that which Lydgate had intended; but her indifferent manner had been too provoking.
没有什么比利德盖特所希望的业务介绍更不符合他的意图了。但她那冷漠的态度实在是太让人恼火了。

‘There! you see,’ said Will. ‘I’m going to the meeting about the Mechanics’ Institute. Good-by;’ and he went quickly out of the room.
'那里！你看，”威尔说。 “我要去参加有关力学研究所的会议。再见。”然后他快步走出了房间。

Rosamond did not look at her husband, but presently rose and took her place before the tea-tray. She was thinking that she had never seen him so disagreeable. Lydgate turned his dark eyes on her and watched her as she delicately handled the tea-service with her taper fingers, and looked at the objects immediately before her with no curve in her face disturbed, and yet with an ineffable protest in her air against all people with unpleasant manners. For the moment he lost the sense of his wound in a sudden speculation about this new form of feminine impassibility revealing itself in the sylph-like frame which he had once interpreted as the sign of a ready intelligent sensitiveness. His mind glancing back to Laure while he looked at Rosamond, he said inwardly, ‘Would SHE kill me because I wearied her?’ and then, ‘It is the way with all women.’ But this power of generalizing which gives men so much the superiority in mistake over the dumb animals, was immediately thwarted by Lydgate’s memory of wondering impressions from the behavior of another woman— from Dorothea’s looks and tones of emotion about her husband when Lydgate began to attend him—from her passionate cry to be taught what would best comfort that man for whose sake it seemed as if she must quell every impulse in her except the yearnings of faithfulness and compassion. These revived impressions succeeded each other quickly and dreamily in Lydgate’s mind while the tea was being brewed. He had shut his eyes in the last instant of reverie while he heard Dorothea saying, ‘Advise me—think what I can do—he has been all his life laboring and looking forward. He minds about nothing else—and I mind about nothing else.’
罗莎蒙德没有看她的丈夫，但很快站了起来，在茶盘前就座。她想，她从来没有见过他这么不讨人喜欢。利德盖特把黑眼睛转向她，看着她用细长的手指小心翼翼地端着茶具，看着眼前的物品，脸上的曲线没有受到干扰，但她的神态中却带着一种难以言表的抗议，反对一切。举止令人不快的人。此刻，他突然想到了这种新形式的女性冷漠在精灵般的框架中显现出来，他曾经将其解释为一种现成的聪明敏感的标志，此时他失去了伤口的感觉。当他看着罗莎蒙德时，他的思绪又回到了劳尔身上，他在心里说道，“她会因为我让她厌倦而杀了我吗？”然后，“这是所有女人的方式。”但是这种概括的力量给了男人如此多的力量利德盖特记忆中另一个女人的行为给她留下了令人惊奇的印象——当利德盖特开始照顾他时，多萝西娅对她丈夫的表情和语气——她热情地哭喊着要被教导什么最能安慰那个男人的是，为了这个男人，她似乎必须抑制自己内心的每一种冲动，除了对忠诚和同情的渴望。当泡茶的时候，这些重新出现的印象在利德盖特的脑海中迅速而梦幻般地接连不断。在沉思的最后一刻，他闭上了眼睛，听到多萝西娅说：“请告诉我——想想我能做什么——他一生都在努力和期待。”他不关心其他任何事情——我也不关心其他任何事情。

That voice of deep-souled womanhood had remained within him as the enkindling conceptions of dead and sceptred genius had remained within him (is there not a genius for feeling nobly which also reigns over human spirits and their conclusions?); the tones were a music from which he was falling away—he had really fallen into a momentary doze, when Rosamond said in her silvery neutral way, ‘Here is your tea, Tertius,’ setting it on the small table by his side, and then moved back to her place without looking at him. Lydgate was too hasty in attributing insensibility to her; after her own fashion, she was sensitive enough, and took lasting impressions. Her impression now was one of offence and repulsion. But then, Rosamond had no scowls and had never raised her voice: she was quite sure that no one could justly find fault with her.
那种深沉的女性气质的声音一直留在他的内心，正如对死去的、受权杖支配的天才的点燃的观念一直留在他的内心一样（难道没有一种天才的感觉高贵，也统治着人类的精神及其结论吗？）；当罗莎蒙德用她银白色的中立语气说：“这是你的茶，特蒂斯”，并将茶放在他身边的小桌子上时，他真的陷入了短暂的瞌睡。然后看也不看他就回到了自己的位置。利德盖特太仓促地将麻木不仁归咎于她。按照她自己的风格，她足够敏感，并留下了持久的印象。现在她的印象是一种冒犯和厌恶。但罗莎蒙德没有皱起眉头，也没有提高声音：她很确定没有人能公正地挑剔她。

Perhaps Lydgate and she had never felt so far off each other before; but there were strong reasons for not deferring his revelation, even if he had not already begun it by that abrupt announcement; indeed some of the angry desire to rouse her into more sensibility on his account which had prompted him to speak prematurely, still mingled with his pain in the prospect of her pain. But he waited till the tray was gone, the candles were lit, and the evening quiet might be counted on: the interval had left time for repelled tenderness to return into the old course. He spoke kindly.
也许利德盖特和她以前从未感到彼此如此疏远；但有充分的理由不推迟他的启示，即使他还没有通过突然的宣布开始它。事实上，有些愤怒的愿望是为了他的缘故而唤醒她变得更加敏感，这促使他过早地说话，但仍然与他对她痛苦的预期的痛苦混合在一起。但他一直等到托盘消失，蜡烛被点燃，晚上才可以安静下来：这段时间让被排斥的温柔又回到了原来的轨道。他说话很和善。

‘Dear Rosy, lay down your work and come to sit by me,’ he said, gently, pushing away the table, and stretching out his arm to draw a chair near his own.
“亲爱的罗西，放下你的工作，过来坐在我身边，”他温柔地说，推开桌子，伸出手臂拉了一张靠近自己的椅子。

Rosamond obeyed. As she came towards him in her drapery of transparent faintly tinted muslin, her slim yet round figure never looked more graceful; as she sat down by him and laid one hand on the elbow of his chair, at last looking at him and meeting his eyes, her delicate neck and cheek and purely cut lips never had more of that untarnished beauty which touches as in spring-time and infancy and all sweet freshness. It touched Lydgate now, and mingled the early moments of his love for her with all the other memories which were stirred in this crisis of deep trouble. He laid his ample hand softly on hers, saying—
罗莎蒙德服从了。当她穿着透明的浅色平纹细布朝他走来时，她那苗条而圆润的身姿显得从未如此优雅过。当她在他身边坐下，一只手搭在他的椅子肘上，最后看着他，与他的目光相遇时，她娇嫩的脖颈、面颊和纯净的嘴唇，从未有过如此纯净的美丽，就像春天一样触动人心。和婴儿期和所有甜蜜的新鲜感。现在，这触动了利德盖特，把他早期对她的爱与在这场深重麻烦的危机中激起的所有其他记忆融为一体。他宽大的手轻轻放在她的手上，说道——

‘Dear!’ with the lingering utterance which affection gives to the word. Rosamond too was still under the power of that same past, and her husband was still in part the Lydgate whose approval had stirred delight. She put his hair lightly away from his forehead, then laid her other hand on his, and was conscious of forgiving him.
“亲爱的！”这个词的语气绵绵不绝，充满了感情。罗莎蒙德也仍然受到同样的过去的影响，她的丈夫仍然有一部分是利德盖特，他的认可激起了喜悦。她轻轻地把他的头发从额头上拨开，然后把另一只手放在他的手上，自觉地原谅了他。

‘I am obliged to tell you what will hurt you, Rosy. But there are things which husband and wife must think of together. I dare say it has occurred to you already that I am short of money.’
“我有义务告诉你什么会伤害你，罗西。但有些事情是夫妻必须共同考虑的。我敢说你已经意识到我缺钱了。

Lydgate paused; but Rosamond turned her neck and looked at a vase on the mantel-piece.
利德盖特停了下来；但罗莎蒙德转过脖子，看着壁炉架上的一个花瓶。

‘I was not able to pay for all the things we had to get before we were married, and there have been expenses since which I have been obliged to meet. The consequence is, there is a large debt at Brassing—three hundred and eighty pounds—which has been pressing on me a good while, and in fact we are getting deeper every day, for people don’t pay me the faster because others want the money. I took pains to keep it from you while you were not well; but now we must think together about it, and you must help me.’
“我无法支付结婚前我们必须买的所有东西，而且从那以后我就不得不支付一些费用。结果是，布拉辛欠了一大笔债务——三百八十英镑——这已经压在我身上很长一段时间了，事实上我们每天都在加深，因为人们不会更快地付给我，因为其他人想要钱。当你身体不好的时候，我煞费苦心地不让你知道。但现在我们必须一起考虑一下，你必须帮助我。”

‘What can—I—do, Tertius?’ said Rosamond, turning her eyes on him again. That little speech of four words, like so many others in all languages, is capable by varied vocal inflections of expressing all states of mind from helpless dimness to exhaustive argumentative perception, from the completest self-devoting fellowship to the most neutral aloofness. Rosamond’s thin utterance threw into the words ‘What can—I—do!’ as much neutrality as they could hold. They fell like a mortal chill on Lydgate’s roused tenderness. He did not storm in indignation— he felt too sad a sinking of the heart. And when he spoke again it was more in the tone of a man who forces himself to fulfil a task.
“我——我——能做什么，特蒂斯？”罗莎蒙德说，眼睛又转向他。这四个词的简短言语，就像所有语言中的许多其他言语一样，能够通过不同的声音变化来表达所有的心态，从无助的昏暗到详尽的争论感知，从最完全的自我奉献的团契到最中立的冷漠。罗莎蒙德的薄弱话语中尽可能保持中立，“我能做什么！”。他们像致命的寒意一样落在利德盖特被唤醒的温柔上。他并没有愤怒地暴跳如雷——他感到心的一沉太悲伤了。当他再次说话时，语气更像是一个强迫自己完成任务的人。

‘It is necessary for you to know, because I have to give security for a time, and a man must come to make an inventory of the furniture.’
“你有必要知道，因为我必须提供一段时间的安全保障，而且必须有人来清点家具。”

Rosamond colored deeply. ‘Have you not asked papa for money?’ she said, as soon as she could speak.
罗莎蒙德脸色深沉。 “你没有向爸爸要钱吗？”她一会说话就说道。

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Then I must ask him!’ she said, releasing her hands from Lydgate’s, and rising to stand at two yards’ distance from him.
“那我就得问他了！”她说着，从利德盖特手中松开了手，起身站在离他两码远的地方。

‘No, Rosy,’ said Lydgate, decisively. ‘It is too late to do that. The inventory will be begun to-morrow. Remember it is a mere security: it will make no difference: it is a temporary affair. I insist upon it that your father shall not know, unless I choose to tell him,’ added Lydgate, with a more peremptory emphasis.
“不，罗西，”利德盖特斩钉截铁地说。 ‘现在这样做已经太晚了。库存将于明天开始。请记住，这只是一种安全：这没有什么区别：这是暂时的事情。我坚持认为你的父亲不会知道，除非我选择告诉他。”利德盖特补充道，语气更加专横。

This certainly was unkind, but Rosamond had thrown him back on evil expectation as to what she would do in the way of quiet steady disobedience. The unkindness seemed unpardonable to her: she was not given to weeping and disliked it, but now her chin and lips began to tremble and the tears welled up. Perhaps it was not possible for Lydgate, under the double stress of outward material difficulty and of his own proud resistance to humiliating consequences, to imagine fully what this sudden trial was to a young creature who had known nothing but indulgence, and whose dreams had all been of new indulgence, more exactly to her taste. But he did wish to spare her as much as he could, and her tears cut him to the heart. He could not speak again immediately; but Rosamond did not go on sobbing: she tried to conquer her agitation and wiped away her tears, continuing to look before her at the mantel-piece.
这当然是不友善的，但罗莎蒙德让他对她会以安静、持续的不服从的方式做什么感到邪恶的期望。这种无情对她来说似乎是不可原谅的：她不习惯哭泣，也不喜欢哭泣，但现在她的下巴和嘴唇开始颤抖，泪水涌出。也许利德盖特在外在物质困难和他自己对羞辱后果的骄傲抵抗的双重压力下不可能完全想象这种突然的考验对于一个除了放纵之外一无所知、梦想已经全部实现的年轻人来说是怎样的。有了新的放纵，更符合她的口味。但他确实希望尽可能地饶恕她，她的眼泪刺痛了他的心。他无法立即再次说话。但罗莎蒙德没有继续抽泣：她试图抑制自己的激动，擦干眼泪，继续看着面前的壁炉架。

‘Try not to grieve, darling,’ said Lydgate, turning his eyes up towards her. That she had chosen to move away from him in this moment of her trouble made everything harder to say, but he must absolutely go on. ‘We must brace ourselves to do what is necessary. It is I who have been in fault: I ought to have seen that I could not afford-to live in this way. But many things have told against me in my practice, and it really just now has ebbed to a low point. I may recover it, but in the mean time we must pull up—we must change our way of living. We shall weather it. When I have given this security I shall have time to look about me; and you are so clever that if you turn your mind to managing you will school me into carefulness. I have been a thoughtless rascal about squaring prices—but come, dear, sit down and forgive me.’
“尽量不要悲伤，亲爱的，”利德盖特说着，抬起眼睛看着她。在她遇到麻烦的这一刻，她选择离开他，这让一切变得更难说，但他必须绝对继续下去。 ‘我们必须做好准备，去做必要的事情。错的是我：我应该看到我无法承受这样的生活。但在我的实践中，很多事情对我不利，而且现在确实已经跌入低谷。我可能会恢复它，但与此同时我们必须停下来——我们必须改变我们的生活方式。我们会度过难关的。当我给予这种安全感时，我将有时间环顾四周；你很聪明，如果你把心思转向管理，你就会教会我小心谨慎。我在平价方面一直是个不假思索的无赖——但是亲爱的，请坐下来原谅我。

Lydgate was bowing his neck under the yoke like a creature who had talons, but who had Reason too, which often reduces us to meekness. When he had spoken the last words in an imploring tone, Rosamond returned to the chair by his side. His self-blame gave her some hope that he would attend to her opinion, and she said—
利德盖特在枷锁下低下了脖子，就像一个有爪子的生物，但也有理性，这常常使我们变得温顺。当他以恳求的语气说出最后一句话时，罗莎蒙德回到了他身边的椅子上。他的自责给了她一些希望，希望他会考虑她的意见，她说——

‘Why can you not put off having the inventory made? You can send the men away to-morrow when they come.’
‘为什么你不能推迟盘点呢？明天他们来的时候你就可以送他们走了。

‘I shall not send them away,’ said Lydgate, the peremptoriness rising again. Was it of any use to explain?
“我不会把他们送走，”利德盖特说道，语气再次变得专横起来。解释有用吗？

‘If we left Middlemarch? there would of course be a sale, and that would do as well.’
“如果我们离开米德尔马契呢？当然会有销售，那也可以。

‘But we are not going to leave Middlemarch.’
“但我们不会离开米德尔马奇。”

‘I am sure, Tertius, it would be much better to do so. Why can we not go to London? Or near Durham, where your family is known?’
“我确信，特提乌斯，这样做会好得多。为什么我们不能去伦敦？或者在达勒姆附近，你的家人在那里出名？

‘We can go nowhere without money, Rosamond.’
“没有钱我们哪儿也去不了，罗莎蒙德。”

‘Your friends would not wish you to be without money. And surely these odious tradesmen might be made to understand that, and to wait, if you would make proper representations to them.’
‘你的朋友不会希望你没有钱。当然，如果你向他们做出适当的陈述，这些可恶的商人可能会明白这一点，并等待。

‘This is idle Rosamond,’ said Lydgate, angrily. ‘You must learn to take my judgment on questions you don’t understand. I have made necessary arrangements, and they must be carried out. As to friends, I have no expectations whatever from them, and shall not ask them for anything.’
“这是无所事事的罗莎蒙德，”利德盖特生气地说。 ‘你必须学会​​对你不理解的问题接受我的判断。我已经做了必要的安排，必须执行。至于朋友，我对他们不抱任何期望，也不会向他们要求任何东西。

Rosamond sat perfectly still. The thought in her mind was that if she had known how Lydgate would behave, she would never have married him.
罗莎蒙德一动不动地坐着。她心里的想法是，如果她知道利德盖特的行为方式，她就永远不会嫁给他。

‘We have no time to waste now on unnecessary words, dear,’ said Lydgate, trying to be gentle again. ‘There are some details that I want to consider with you. Dover says he will take a good deal of the plate back again, and any of the jewellery we like. He really behaves very well.’
“我们现在没有时间浪费在不必要的言语上，亲爱的，”利德盖特说道，试图再次变得温和。 “有些细节我想和你一起考虑。多佛说他会再次拿回大部分盘子，以及我们喜欢的任何珠宝。他真的表现得很好。

‘Are we to go without spoons and forks then?’ said Rosamond, whose very lips seemed to get thinner with the thinness of her utterance. She was determined to make no further resistance or suggestions.
“那么我们就不用勺子和叉子了吗？”罗莎蒙德说道，她的嘴唇似乎因为她的话语变得越来越薄。她决心不再做出进一步的抵抗或建议。

‘Oh no, dear!’ said Lydgate. ‘But look here,’ he continued, drawing a paper from his pocket and opening it; ‘here is Dover’s account. See, I have marked a number of articles, which if we returned them would reduce the amount by thirty pounds. and more. I have not marked any of the jewellery.’ Lydgate had really felt this point of the jewellery very bitter to himself; but he had overcome the feeling by severe argument. He could not propose to Rosamond that she should return any particular present of his, but he had told himself that he was bound to put Dover’s offer before her, and her inward prompting might make the affair easy.
“哦，不，亲爱的！”利德盖特说。 “但是看这里，”他继续说道，从口袋里掏出一张纸并打开。 “这是多佛的账户。你看，我已经标记了一些物品，如果我们退回它们，就会减少三十英镑的金额。和更多。我没有在任何珠宝上做标记。”利德盖特确实对珠宝的这一点感到非常痛苦。但他通过激烈的争论克服了这种感觉。他无法向罗莎蒙德建议她归还他的任何一件特别的礼物，但他告诉自己，他必须把多佛的提议摆在她面前，而她内心的提示可能会让这件事变得容易。

‘It is useless for me to look, Tertius,’ said Rosamond, calmly; ‘you will return what you please.’ She would not turn her eyes on the paper, and Lydgate, flushing up to the roots of his hair, drew it back and let it fall on his knee. Meanwhile Rosamond quietly went out of the room, leaving Lydgate helpless and wondering. Was she not coming back? It seemed that she had no more identified herself with him than if they had been creatures of different species and opposing interests. He tossed his head and thrust his hands deep into his pockets with a sort of vengeance. There was still science— there were still good objects to work for. He must give a tug still— all the stronger because other satisfactions were going.
“我看是没有用的，特提乌斯，”罗莎蒙德平静地说。 “你会归还你想要的东西。”她不愿把目光转向那张纸，利德盖特脸红到发根，把它拉回来，让它落在他的膝盖上。与此同时，罗莎蒙德悄悄地走出了房间，留下利德盖特无助和困惑。她不回来了吗？她似乎不再认同他，就好像他们是不同物种、利益对立的生物一样。他猛地仰起头，双手深深地插进口袋，带着一种报复的感觉。科学仍然存在——仍然有好的目标值得我们去努力。他必须继续用力——更加用力，因为其他的满足感正在消失。

But the door opened and Rosamond re-entered. She carried the leather box containing the amethysts, and a tiny ornamental basket which contained other boxes, and laying them on the chair where she had been sitting, she said, with perfect propriety in her air—
但门开了，罗莎蒙德又进来了。她拎着装着紫水晶的皮盒子，还有一个装着其他盒子的小装饰篮，把它们放在她坐过的椅子上，她说，语气十分得体——

‘This is all the jewellery you ever gave me. You can return what you like of it, and of the plate also. You will not, of course, expect me to stay at home to-morrow. I shall go to papa’s.’
“这是你送给我的所有珠宝。您可以退回您喜欢的东西，也可以退回盘子。当然，你不会期望我明天留在家里。我要去爸爸那儿。

To many women the look Lydgate cast at her would have been more terrible than one of anger: it had in it a despairing acceptance of the distance she was placing between them.
对许多女人来说，利德盖特看向她的眼神比愤怒更可怕：其中绝望地接受了她在她们之间设置的距离。

‘And when shall you come back again?’ he said, with a bitter edge on his accent.
“你什么时候回来？”他说，口音带着苦涩。

‘Oh, in the evening. Of course I shall not mention the subject to mamma.’ Rosamond was convinced that no woman could behave more irreproachably than she was behaving; and she went to sit down at her work-table. Lydgate sat meditating a minute or two, and the result was that he said, with some of the old emotion in his tone—
‘噢，晚上。当然，我不会向妈妈提及这个话题。”罗莎蒙德坚信，没有哪个女人能够表现得比她现在的行为更无可指责了。她走到工作台前坐下。利德盖特坐下来沉思了一两分钟，结果他说道，语气中带着一些古老的情感——

‘Now we have been united, Rosy, you should not leave me to myself in the first trouble that has come.’
“现在我们已经团结起来了，罗西，你不应该在遇到第一个麻烦时就丢下我一个人。”

‘Certainly not,’ said Rosamond; ‘I shall do everything it becomes me to do.’
“当然不是，”罗莎蒙德说。 “我会做我该做的一切。”

‘It is not right that the thing should be left to servants, or that I should have to speak to them about it. And I shall be obliged to go out—I don’t know how early. I understand your shrinking from the humiliation of these money affairs. But, my dear Rosamond, as a question of pride, which I feel just as much as you can, it is surely better to manage the thing ourselves, and let the servants see as little of it as possible; and since you are my wife, there is no hindering your share in my disgraces—if there were disgraces.’
‘这件事应该留给仆人，或者我必须和他们谈论这件事，这是不对的。我将不得不出去——我不知道要多久。我理解你因这些金钱事务的羞辱而退缩。但是，我亲爱的罗莎蒙德，作为一个骄傲的问题，我和你一样深有感触，最好是我们自己处理这件事，并让仆人尽可能少地看到它；既然你是我的妻子，那么你就无法阻止我的耻辱——如果有耻辱的话。

Rosamond did not answer immediately, but at last she said, ‘Very well, I will stay at home.’
罗莎蒙德没有立即回答，但最后她说：“很好，我会留在家里。”

‘I shall not touch these jewels, Rosy. Take them away again. But I will write out a list of plate that we may return, and that can be packed up and sent at once.’
“我不会碰这些珠宝，罗西。再次把他们带走。但我会写出一份我们可以退回的盘子清单，可以立即打包并发送。

‘The servants will know THAT,’ said Rosamond, with the slightest touch of sarcasm.
“仆人们会知道的，”罗莎蒙德说道，语气中带着一丝讽刺。

‘Well, we must meet some disagreeables as necessities. Where is the ink, I wonder?’ said Lydgate, rising, and throwing the account on the larger table where he meant to write.
‘好吧，我们必须应付一些不愉快的事情。我想知道墨水在哪里？”利德盖特站起身来，把账目扔到一张大桌子上他要写的地方。

Rosamond went to reach the inkstand, and after setting it on the table was going to turn away, when Lydgate, who was standing close by, put his arm round her and drew her towards him, saying—
罗莎蒙德走到墨水瓶旁，把它放在桌子上，正要转身走开，这时站在附近的利德盖特用手臂搂住她，把她拉向自己，说道——

‘Come, darling, let us make the best of things. It will only be for a time, I hope, that we shall have to be stingy and particular. Kiss me.’
‘来吧，亲爱的，让我们充分利用一切。我希望，我们只能在一段时间内变得吝啬和挑剔。吻我。'

His native warm-heartedness took a great deal of quenching, and it is a part of manliness for a husband to feel keenly the fact that an inexperienced girl has got into trouble by marrying him. She received his kiss and returned it faintly, and in this way an appearance of accord was recovered for the time. But Lydgate could not help looking forward with dread to the inevitable future discussions about expenditure and the necessity for a complete change in their way of living.
他天生的热心肠已经被磨灭了很多，对于一个丈夫来说，敏锐地感觉到一个没有经验的女孩嫁给他会惹上麻烦，这是男子气概的一部分。她接受了他的吻，淡淡地回应了一声，这才暂时恢复了和睦的样子。但利德盖特不禁对未来不可避免的关于支出和彻底改变生活方式的必要性的讨论充满恐惧。

CHAPTER LIX
第十九章

They said of old the Soul had human shape,
他们说从前灵魂具有人形，

But smaller, subtler than the fleshly self,
但比肉体的自我更小、更微妙，

So wandered forth for airing when it pleased.
因此，只要愿意，就可以四处闲逛。

And see! beside her cherub-face there floats
瞧！在她天使般的脸庞旁边漂浮着

A pale-lipped form aerial whispering
嘴唇苍白的空中低语

Its promptings in that little shell her ear.’
它在她耳朵里那个小贝壳里发出提示。

News is often dispersed as thoughtlessly and effectively as that pollen which the bees carry off (having no idea how powdery they are) when they are buzzing in search of their particular nectar. This fine comparison has reference to Fred Vincy, who on that evening at Lowick Parsonage heard a lively discussion among the ladies on the news which their old servant had got from Tantripp concerning Mr. Casaubon’s strange mention of Mr. Ladislaw in a codicil to his will made not long before his death. Miss Winifred was astounded to find that her brother had known the fact before, and observed that Camden was the most wonderful man for knowing things and not telling them; whereupon Mary Garth said that the codicil had perhaps got mixed up with the habits of spiders, which Miss Winifred never would listen to. Mrs. Farebrother considered that the news had something to do with their having only once seen Mr. Ladislaw at Lowick, and Miss Noble made many small compassionate mewings.
新闻的传播往往不假思索、有效地传播，就像蜜蜂嗡嗡地寻找特定花蜜时带走的花粉（不知道它们有多粉）一样。这个很好的比较是指弗雷德·文西，那天晚上，他在洛威克牧师府听到了女士们热烈讨论他们的老仆人从坦特里普那里得到的消息，即卡苏邦先生在遗嘱附录中奇怪地提到了拉迪斯劳先生。在他去世前不久制作的。威妮弗莱德小姐惊讶地发现她哥哥以前就知道这个事实，并指出卡姆登是最了不起的人，他知道事情而不告诉他们。玛丽·加思说，这份附录可能与蜘蛛的习性混淆了，温妮弗雷德小姐绝不会听的。费勒布拉泽夫人认为这个消息与他们只在洛伊克见过一次拉迪斯劳先生有关，诺布尔小姐发出了许多富有同情心的小声喵叫。

Fred knew little and cared less about Ladislaw and the Casaubons, and his mind never recurred to that discussion till one day calling on Rosamond at his mother’s request to deliver a message as he passed, he happened to see Ladislaw going away. Fred and Rosamond had little to say to each other now that marriage had removed her from collision with the unpleasantness of brothers, and especially now that he had taken what she held the stupid and even reprehensible step of giving up the Church to take to such a business as Mr. Garth’s. Hence Fred talked by preference of what he considered indifferent news, and ‘a propos of that young Ladislaw’ mentioned what he had heard at Lowick Parsonage.
弗雷德对拉迪斯瓦夫和卡苏邦一家知之甚少，也不太关心，他的思绪再也没有想起那场讨论，直到有一天，应母亲的要求，他去罗莎蒙德路过时传递口信，碰巧看到拉迪斯瓦夫离开了。弗雷德和罗莎蒙德彼此之间没什么可说的，因为婚姻使她不再与兄弟间的不愉快发生冲突，尤其是现在他已经采取了她所认为的愚蠢甚至应受谴责的步骤，放弃了教会，采取了这样的行动。加斯先生的生意。因此，弗雷德更喜欢谈论他认为无关紧要的新闻，而“那个年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫的提议”提到了他在洛威克牧师府听到的事情。

Now Lydgate, like Mr. Farebrother, knew a great deal more than he told, and when he had once been set thinking about the relation between Will and Dorothea his conjectures had gone beyond the fact. He imagined that there was a passionate attachment on both sides, and this struck him as much too serious to gossip about. He remembered Will’s irritability when he had mentioned Mrs. Casaubon, and was the more circumspect. On the whole his surmises, in addition to what he knew of the fact, increased his friendliness and tolerance towards Ladislaw, and made him understand the vacillation which kept him at Middlemarch after he had said that he should go away. It was significant of the separateness be tween Lydgate’s mind and Rosamond’s that he had no impulse to speak to her on the subject; indeed, he did not quite trust her reticence towards Will. And he was right there; though he had no vision of the way in which her mind would act in urging her to speak.
现在，利德盖特和费勒布拉泽先生一样，知道的事情比他说的要多得多，当他一旦开始思考威尔和多萝西娅之间的关系时，他的猜测就超出了事实。他想象着双方都有一种强烈的依恋，这让他觉得这太严重了，不值得八卦。他记得威尔提到卡苏朋夫人时的烦躁，因此更加谨慎。总的来说，除了他所了解的事实之外，他的猜测增加了他对拉迪斯瓦夫的友善和宽容，并使他理解了在他说他应该离开之后，他在米德尔马契的犹豫不决。利德盖特和罗莎蒙德之间的思想截然不同，这一点很重要，因为他没有冲动与她谈论这个话题。事实上，他不太相信她对威尔的沉默。他就在那里；尽管他不知道她的思想会以何种方式催促她说话。

When she repeated Fred’s news to Lydgate, he said, ‘Take care you don’t drop the faintest hint to Ladislaw, Rosy. He is likely to fly out as if you insulted him. Of course it is a painful affair.’
当她向利德盖特重复弗雷德的消息时，他说：“小心，不要向拉迪斯瓦夫透露任何微弱的暗示，罗西。”他很可能会像你侮辱他一样飞出去。当然，这是一件痛苦的事情。

Rosamond turned her neck and patted her hair, looking the image of placid indifference. But the next time Will came when Lydgate was away, she spoke archly about his not going to London as he had threatened.
罗莎蒙德转过脖子，拍拍头发，一副平静冷漠的样子。但当利德盖特不在时，威尔下次来时，她调皮地说他不会像他威胁的那样去伦敦。

‘I know all about it. I have a confidential little bird,’ said she, showing very pretty airs of her head over the bit of work held high between her active fingers. ‘There is a powerful magnet in this neighborhood.’
‘我知道这一切。我有一只保密的小鸟，”她说，在她活跃的手指间高高举起的工作上，她的头露出了非常漂亮的神态。 “这个街区有一块强大的磁铁。”

‘To be sure there is. Nobody knows that better than you,’ said Will, with light gallantry, but inwardly prepared to be angry.
‘当然有。没有人比你更清楚这一点。”威尔带着淡淡的殷勤说道，但内心却做好了生气的准备。

‘It is really the most charming romance: Mr. Casaubon jealous, and foreseeing that there was no one else whom Mrs. Casaubon would so much like to marry, and no one who would so much like to marry her as a certain gentleman; and then laying a plan to spoil all by making her forfeit her property if she did marry that gentleman— and then—and then—and then—oh, I have no doubt the end will be thoroughly romantic.’
真是最迷人的浪漫了：卡苏朋先生妒忌，预见到没有人比某位先生更愿意嫁给卡苏朋夫人，也没有人比她更愿意娶她；然后制定一个破坏一切的计划，如果她嫁给了那位绅士，就让她丧失财产——然后——然后——然后——哦，我毫不怀疑结局将是彻底浪漫的。

‘Great God! what do you mean?’ said Will, flushing over face and ears, his features seeming to change as if he had had a violent shake. ‘Don’t joke; tell me what you mean.’
‘伟大的上帝！ “你这是什么意思？”威尔说，他的脸和耳朵都涨红了，他的面容似乎发生了变化，就好像他受到了剧烈的震动。 ‘别开玩笑了；告诉我你的意思。

‘You don’t really know?’ said Rosamond, no longer playful, and desiring nothing better than to tell in order that she might evoke effects.
“你真的不知道吗？”罗莎蒙德说，她不再开玩笑了，她只想告诉自己，以便引起效果。

‘No!’ he returned, impatiently.
“不！”他不耐烦地回答道。

‘Don’t know that Mr. Casaubon has left it in his will that if Mrs. Casaubon marries you she is to forfeit all her property?’
“不知道卡苏邦先生在遗嘱中写明，如果卡苏邦夫人嫁给你，她将丧失所有财产？”

‘How do you know that it is true?’ said Will, eagerly.
“你怎么知道这是真的？”威尔急切地说。

‘My brother Fred heard it from the Farebrothers.’ Will started up from his chair and reached his hat.
“我哥哥弗雷德是从费雷兄弟那里听到的。”威尔从椅子上站起来，伸手去拿帽子。

‘I dare say she likes you better than the property,’ said Rosamond, looking at him from a distance.
“我敢说她喜欢你胜过喜欢这块财产，”罗莎蒙德远远地看着他说道。

‘Pray don’t say any more about it,’ said Will, in a hoarse undertone extremely unlike his usual light voice. ‘It is a foul insult to her and to me.’ Then he sat down absently, looking before him, but seeing nothing.
“请不要再提这件事了。”威尔用沙哑的声音说道，这与他平时轻松的声音截然不同。 “这对她和我来说都是一种严重的侮辱。”然后他心不在焉地坐下来，看着前方，但什么也没看到。

‘Now you are angry with ME,’ said Rosamond. ‘It is too bad to bear ME malice. You ought to be obliged to me for telling you.’
“现在你生我的气了，”罗莎蒙德说。 ‘忍受我的恶意真是太糟糕了。你应该感谢我告诉你。

‘So I am,’ said Will, abruptly, speaking with that kind of double soul which belongs to dreamers who answer questions.
“我也是，”威尔突然说道，带着属于回答问题的梦想家的双重灵魂。

‘I expect to hear of the marriage,’ said Rosamond, play. fully.
“我希望听到结婚的消息，”罗莎蒙德说道。完全。

‘Never! You will never hear of the marriage!’
'绝不！你永远不会听说这桩婚事！”

With those words uttered impetuously, Will rose, put out his hand to Rosamond, still with the air of a somnambulist, and went away.
威尔气急败坏地说完这句话，站起身来，向罗莎蒙德伸出手，脸上的表情仍然像梦游者一样，然后就走了。

When he was gone, Rosamond left her chair and walked to the other end of the room, leaning when she got there against a chiffonniere, and looking out of the window wearily. She was oppressed by ennui, and by that dissatisfaction which in women’s minds is continually turning into a trivial jealousy, referring to no real claims, springing from no deeper passion than the vague exactingness of egoism, and yet capable of impelling action as well as speech. ‘There really is nothing to care for much,’ said poor Rosamond inwardly, thinking of the family at Quallingham, who did not write to her; and that perhaps Tertius when he came home would tease her about expenses. She had already secretly disobeyed him by asking her father to help them, and he had ended decisively by saying, ‘I am more likely to want help myself.’
他走后，罗莎蒙德离开椅子，走到房间的另一端，到达那里时靠在雪纺纱上，疲倦地望着窗外。她被厌倦和不满所压抑，这种不满在女人心里不断地变成一种微不足道的嫉妒，没有真正的要求，没有比模糊的严格的利己主义更深刻的激情，但却能够推动行动和言论。 “确实没有什么值得关心的，”可怜的罗莎蒙德心里说道，想起了夸林汉姆的家人，他们没有给她写信；或许特蒂乌斯回家后会取笑她的开支问题。她已经偷偷地违背了他的要求，要求父亲帮助他们，而他最后果断地说：“我更可能自己需要帮助。”

CHAPTER LX
第六章

Good phrases are surely, and ever were, very commendable.
好的短语无疑是非常值得称赞的。

—Justice Shallow.
——浅正义。

A few days afterwards—it was already the end of August—there was an occasion which caused some excitement in Middlemarch: the public, if it chose, was to have the advantage of buying, under the distinguished auspices of Mr. Borthrop Trumbull, the furniture, books, and pictures which anybody might see by the handbills to be the best in every kind, belonging to Edwin Larcher, Esq. This was not one of the sales indicating the depression of trade; on the contrary, it was due to Mr. Larcher’s great success in the carrying business, which warranted his purchase of a mansion near Riverston already furnished in high style by an illustrious Spa physician—furnished indeed with such large framefuls of expensive flesh-painting in the dining-room, that Mrs. Larcher was nervous until reassured by finding the subjects to be Scriptural. Hence the fine opportunity to purchasers which was well pointed out in the handbills of Mr. Borthrop Trumbull, whose acquaintance with the history of art enabled him to state that the hall furniture, to be sold without reserve, comprised a piece of carving by a contemporary of Gibbons.
几天后——已经是八月底了——有一个事件在米德尔马奇引起了一些兴奋：如果公众愿意，可以在博思罗普·特朗布尔先生的杰出赞助下购买家具、书籍和图片，任何人都可以从传单上看出它们是所有种类中最好的，属于埃德温·拉彻先生。这并不是一项表明贸易萧条的销售；而是一项表明贸易萧条的销售。相反，这是由于拉彻先生在运输业务上取得了巨大成功，这使得他能够在里弗斯顿附近购买一栋豪宅，该豪宅已经由一位著名的斯帕医生布置得很高雅——事实上，里面有如此大的一框昂贵的人体画。在餐厅里，拉彻夫人很紧张，直到发现主题符合圣经后才放心。因此，博思罗普·特朗布尔先生的传单中充分指出了买家的绝佳机会，他对艺术史的熟悉使他能够指出，无保留出售的大厅家具由当代艺术家的一件雕刻品组成。吉本斯。

At Middlemarch in those times a large sale was regarded as a kind of festival. There was a table spread with the best cold eatables, as at a superior funeral; and facilities were offered for that generous-drinking of cheerful glasses which might lead to generous and cheerful bidding for undesirable articles. Mr. Larcher’s sale was the more attractive in the fine weather because the house stood just at the end of the town, with a garden and stables attached, in that pleasant issue from Middlemarch called the London Road, which was also the road to the New Hospital and to Mr. Bulstrode’s retired residence, known as the Shrubs. In short, the auction was as good as a fair, and drew all classes with leisure at command: to some, who risked making bids in order simply to raise prices, it was almost equal to betting at the races. The second day, when the best furniture was to be sold, ‘everybody’ was there; even Mr. Thesiger, the rector of St. Peter’s, had looked in for a short time, wishing to buy the carved table, and had rubbed elbows with Mr. Bambridge and Mr. Horrock. There was a wreath of Middlemarch ladies accommodated with seats round the large table in the dining-room, where Mr. Borthrop Trumbull was mounted with desk and hammer; but the rows chiefly of masculine faces behind were often varied by incomings and outgoings both from the door and the large bow-window opening on to the lawn.
那时，在米德尔马契，大型拍卖会被视为一种节日。桌子上摆满了最好的冷食，就像在高级葬礼上一样。并为人们提供了慷慨地畅饮的便利，这可能会导致人们慷慨而愉快地竞标不受欢迎的物品。拉彻先生的出售在晴朗的天气里更有吸引力，因为房子就位于城镇的尽头，附有花园和马厩，位于米德尔马奇令人愉快的伦敦路，这条路也是通往新城的路。医院和布尔斯特罗德先生的退休住所，即灌木丛。简而言之，这次拍卖会就像一场集市，吸引了所有阶层的人，他们都悠闲自得：对于一些为了抬高价格而冒险出价的人来说，这几乎等同于在赛马会上投注。第二天，当最好的家具被出售时，“每个人”都在场。就连圣彼得教堂的校长塞西格先生也曾短暂来看望，希望购买那张雕花桌子，并与班布里奇先生和霍罗克先生打过交道。餐厅里的大桌子周围坐​​着一圈米德尔马契的女士，博思罗普·特朗布尔先生坐在那儿，桌上摆着桌子和锤子。但后面的一排主要是男性面孔的人经常因门和通向草坪的大弓窗的进出而变化。

‘Everybody’ that day did not include Mr. Bulstrode, whose health could not well endure crowds and draughts. But Mrs. Bulstrode had particularly wished to have a certain picture—a ‘Supper at Emmaus,’ attributed in the catalogue to Guido; and at the last moment before the day of the sale Mr. Bulstrode had called at the office of the ‘Pioneer,’ of which he was now one of the proprietors, to beg of Mr. Ladislaw as a great favor that he would obligingly use his remarkable knowledge of pictures on behalf of Mrs. Bulstrode, and judge of the value of this particular painting—‘if,’ added the scrupulously polite banker, attendance at the sale would not interfere with the arrangements for your departure, which I know is imminent.’
那天的“所有人”不包括布尔斯特罗德先生，他的健康状况无法很好地承受人群和风。但布尔斯特罗德夫人特别希望有一幅特定的画——一幅《以马忤斯的晚餐》，目录中注明是吉多的作品；在拍卖前的最后一刻，布尔斯特罗德先生来到“先锋”的办公室（他现在是该公司的所有者之一），请求拉迪斯瓦夫先生给予他一个很大的帮助，他会乐意使用他对布尔斯特罗德夫人的绘画有着非凡的了解，并对这幅画的价值做出了判断——“如果，”那位彬彬有礼的银行家补充道，出席拍卖会不会影响您离开的安排，我知道这是迫在眉睫。

This proviso might have sounded rather satirically in Will’s ear if he had been in a mood to care about such satire. It referred to an understanding entered into many weeks before with the proprietors of the paper, that he should be at liberty any day he pleased to hand over the management to the subeditor whom he had been training; since he wished finally to quit Middlemarch. But indefinite visions of ambition are weak against the ease of doing what is habitual or beguilingly agreeable; and we all know the difficulty of carrying out a resolve when we secretly long that it may turn out to be unnecessary. In such states of mind the most incredulous person has a private leaning towards miracle: impossible to conceive how our wish could be fulfilled, still— very wonderful things have happened! Will did not confess this weakness to himself, but he lingered. What was the use of going to London at that time of the year? The Rugby men who would remember him were not there; and so far as political writing was concerned, he would rather for a few weeks go on with the ‘Pioneer.’ At the present moment, however, when Mr. Bulstrode was speaking to him, he had both a strengthened resolve to go and an equally strong resolve not to go till he had once more seen Dorothea. Hence he replied that he had reasons for deferring his departure a little, and would be happy to go to the sale.
如果威尔有心情关心这样的讽刺的话，这个附带条件在他耳中听起来可能相当讽刺。它指的是几周前与报纸所有者达成的一项谅解，即他可以随时将管理权移交给他一直在培训的副编辑；因为他最终希望退出米德尔马契。但是，与轻松地做习惯性或令人着迷的令人愉快的事情相比，无限的野心愿景是微弱的。我们都知道，当我们暗自渴望一项决心可能被证明是不必要的时，执行它是多么困难。在这种心态下，即使是最难以置信的人也会私下里倾向于奇迹：无法想象我们的愿望如何能够实现，但仍然——非常奇妙的事情发生了！威尔没有向自己承认这个弱点，但他犹豫不决。每年这个时候去伦敦有什么用呢？那些会记得他的橄榄球运动员并不在那里；就政治写作而言，他宁愿花几个星期继续写《先锋》。然而，目前，当布尔斯特罗德先生对他说话时，他既坚定了继续写下去的决心，又坚定了继续写下去的决心。同样坚定的决心是，在再次见到多萝西娅之前，他不会离开。因此他回答说他有理由推迟一点离开，并且很乐意去参加拍卖会。

Will was in a defiant mood, his consciousness being deeply stung with the thought that the people who looked at him probably knew a fact tantamount to an accusation against him as a fellow with low designs which were to be frustrated by a disposal of property. Like most people who assert their freedom with regard to conventional distinction, he was prepared to be sudden and quick at quarrel with any one who might hint that he had personal reasons for that assertion— that there was anything in his blood, his bearing, or his character to which he gave the mask of an opinion. When he was under an irritating impression of this kind he would go about for days with a defiant look, the color changing in his transparent skin as if he were on the qui vive, watching for something which he had to dart upon.
威尔心情充满挑衅，他的意识深深地被这个想法所刺痛：那些看着他的人可能知道一个事实，这无异于对他的指控，认为他是一个胸怀低劣的家伙，因为处置财产而受到挫败。像大多数在传统区别方面主张自由的人一样，他准备好突然而迅速地与任何可能暗示他的这一主张有个人原因的人争吵，即他的血统、他的举止或任何东西。他给他的性格赋予了一种观点的面具。当他受到这种令人恼火的印象时，他会一连好几天都带着挑衅的表情，透明的皮肤颜色不断变化，就好像他处于危险之中，警惕着他必须冲向的东西。

This expression was peculiarly noticeable in him at the sale, and those who had only seen him in his moods of gentle oddity or of bright enjoyment would have been struck with a contrast. He was not sorry to have this occasion for appearing in public before the Middlemarch tribes of Toller, Hackbutt, and the rest, who looked down on him as an adventurer, and were in a state of brutal ignorance about Dante—who sneered at his Polish blood, and were themselves of a breed very much in need of crossing. He stood in a conspicuous place not far from the auctioneer, with a fore-finger in each side-pocket and his head thrown backward, not caring to speak to anybody, though he had been cordially welcomed as a connoissURE by Mr. Trumbull, who was enjoying the utmost activity of his great faculties.
在拍卖会上，他的这种表情尤其明显，那些只看到他温和古怪或明快享受的心情的人会被对比所震撼。他并不后悔有这个机会出现在米德尔马契部落的托勒、哈克布特和其他人面前，他们瞧不起他这个冒险家，而且对但丁处于一种残酷的无知状态——但丁嘲笑他的波兰语。血统，他们本身就是一个非常需要杂交的品种。 ”正在享受他伟大才能的最大活动。

And surely among all men whose vocation requires them to exhibit their powers of speech, the happiest is a prosperous provincial auctioneer keenly alive to his own jokes and sensible of his encyclopedic knowledge. Some saturnine, sour-blooded persons might object to be constantly insisting on the merits of all articles from boot-jacks to ‘Berghems;’ but Mr. Borthrop Trumbull had a kindly liquid in his veins; he was an admirer by nature, and would have liked to have the universe under his hammer, feeling that it would go at a higher figure for his recommendation.
当然，在所有职业要求他们展示演讲能力的人中，最幸福的是一位富有的省级拍卖师，他对自己的笑话非常敏感，并且对自己的百科全书式知识很敏感。一些阴郁、冷血的人可能会反对不断地坚持所有文章的优点，从靴子千斤顶到“伯格姆”；但是博思罗普·特朗布尔先生的血管里流淌着一种仁慈的液体；他天生就是一个崇拜者，希望能将整个宇宙置于他的锤子之下，因为他觉得如果他推荐的话，宇宙的价格会更高。

Meanwhile Mrs. Larcher’s drawing-room furniture was enough for him. When Will Ladislaw had come in, a second fender, said to have been forgotten in its right place, suddenly claimed the auctioneer’s enthusiasm, which he distributed on the equitable principle of praising those things most which were most in need of praise. The fender was of polished steel, with much lancet-shaped open-work and a sharp edge
与此同时，拉彻夫人的客厅家具对他来说已经足够了。当威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫进来时，据说被遗忘在正确位置的第二个挡泥板突然夺走了拍卖师的热情，他按照公平原则分配了对那些最需要赞扬的东西的赞扬。挡泥板由抛光钢制成，有许多柳叶刀形状的镂空和锋利的边缘

‘Now, ladies,’ said he, ‘I shall appeal to you. Here is a fender which at any other sale would hardly be offered with out reserve, being, as I may say, for quality of steel and quaintness of design, a kind of thing’—here Mr. Trumbull dropped his voice and became slightly nasal, trimming his outlines with his left finger— ‘that might not fall in with ordinary tastes. Allow me to tell you that by-and-by this style of workmanship will be the only one in vogue—half-a-crown, you said? thank you—going at half-a-crown, this characteristic fender; and I have particular information that the antique style is very much sought after in high quarters. Three shillings—three-and-sixpence—hold it well up, Joseph! Look, ladies, at the chastity of the design— I have no doubt myself that it was turned out in the last century! Four shillings, Mr. Mawmsey?—four shillings.’
“现在，女士们，”他说，“我向你们求助。这是一个在任何其他拍卖中都很难毫无保留地提供的挡泥板，正如我可以说的那样，因为钢材的质量和设计的古雅，是一种东西”——说到这里，特朗布尔先生压低了声音，变得有点鼻音。 ，用左手手指修剪轮廓——“这可能不符合普通人的品味。”请允许我告诉你，这种工艺风格很快就会成为唯一流行的工艺——你说是半克朗？谢谢你——这个特色挡泥板要半克朗；我有特别的消息称，古董风格在上层人士中非常受追捧。三先令——三又六便士——足够了，约瑟夫！看看，女士们，看看这个设计的贞洁——我毫不怀疑自己，它是上个世纪的产物！四先令，莫姆西先生？——四先令。

‘It’s not a thing I would put in MY drawing-room,’ said Mrs. Mawmsey, audibly, for the warning of the rash husband. ‘I wonder AT Mrs. Larcher. Every blessed child’s head that fell against it would be cut in two. The edge is like a knife.’
“这不是我会放在客厅里的东西，”莫姆西夫人大声说道，以警告鲁莽的丈夫。 “我想知道拉彻夫人。每一个被祝福的孩子的头碰到它都会被切成两半。边缘就像一把刀。

‘Quite true,’ rejoined Mr. Trumbull, quickly, ‘and most uncommonly useful to have a fender at hand that will cut, if you have a leather shoe-tie or a bit of string that wants cutting and no knife at hand: many a man has been left hanging because there was no knife to cut him down. Gentlemen, here’s a fender that if you had the misfortune to hang yourselves would cut you down in no time—with astonishing celerity—four-and-sixpence—five—five-and-sixpence—an appropriate thing for a spare bedroom where there was a four-poster and a guest a little out of his mind—six shillings—thank you, Mr. Clintup— going at six shillings—going—gone!’ The auctioneer’s glance, which had been searching round him with a preternatural susceptibility to all signs of bidding, here dropped on the paper before him, and his voice too dropped into a tone of indifferent despatch as he said, ‘Mr. Clintup. Be handy, Joseph.’
“确实如此，”特朗布尔先生很快回答道，“如果你有一条皮鞋带或一根需要切割的绳子，但手边没有刀，那么手边有一个可以切割的挡泥板是最不寻常的有用：很多一名男子因没有刀可以砍倒而被吊死。先生们，这里有一个挡泥板，如果你们不幸上吊，它会立刻把你们砍倒——速度惊人——四六便士——五——五六便士——对于一间空余的卧室来说，这是一个合适的东西，那里有一张四张海报和一位有点精神错乱的客人——六先令——谢谢你，克林特普先生——以六先令的价格出售——去——走了！”拍卖师的目光一直在他周围搜索，对一切都具有一种超自然的敏感性出价的迹象，落在了他面前的纸上，他的声音也变成了冷漠急切的语气，说道：“先生。”克林特普。小心一点，约瑟夫。”

‘It was worth six shillings to have a fender you could always tell that joke on,’ said Mr. Clintup, laughing low and apologetically to his next neighbor. He was a diffident though distinguished nurseryman, and feared that the audience might regard his bid as a foolish one.
“花六先令买一个可以随时讲笑话的挡泥板，”克林特普先生低声笑着对他的下一位邻居表示歉意。他是一位杰出的苗圃工，但他却很害羞，他担心观众会认为他的出价是愚蠢的。

Meanwhile Joseph had brought a trayful of small articles. ‘Now, ladies,’ said Mr. Trumbull, taking up one of the articles, ‘this tray contains a very recherchy lot—a collection of trifles for the drawing-room table—and trifles make the sum OF human things—nothing more important than trifles—(yes, Mr. Ladislaw, yes, by-and-by)—but pass the tray round, Joseph—these bijoux must be examined, ladies. This I have in my hand is an ingenious contrivance— a sort of practical rebus, I may call it: here, you see, it looks like an elegant heart-shaped box, portable—for the pocket; there, again, it becomes like a splendid double flower—an ornament for the table; and now’—Mr. Trumbull allowed the flower to fall alarmingly into strings of heart-shaped leaves—‘a book of riddles! No less than five hundred printed in a beautiful red. Gentlemen, if I had less of a conscience, I should not wish you to bid high for this lot— I have a longing for it myself. What can promote innocent mirth, and I may say virtue, more than a good riddle?—it hinders profane language, and attaches a man to the society of refined females. This ingenious article itself, without the elegant domino-box, card-basket, &c., ought alone to give a high price to the lot. Carried in the pocket it might make an individual welcome in any society. Four shillings, sir?—four shillings for this remarkable collection of riddles with the et caeteras. Here is a sample: ‘How must you spell honey to make it catch lady-birds? Answer— money.’ You hear?—lady-birds—honey money. This is an amusement to sharpen the intellect; it has a sting—it has what we call satire, and wit without indecency. Four-and-sixpence—five shillings.’
与此同时，约瑟夫带来了一托盘小物品。 “现在，女士们，”特朗布尔先生拿起其中一篇文章说道，“这个托盘里装着很多东西——客厅桌子上的一些小玩意儿——而这些小玩意儿构成了人类事物的总和——没有什么比这更重要的了。”不仅仅是小事——（是的，拉迪斯瓦夫先生，是的，不久之后）——但是把托盘传过来，约瑟夫——这些珠宝必须检查一下，女士们。我手里的这个是一个巧妙的发明——一种实用的画谜，我可以称之为：在这里，你看，它看起来像一个优雅的心形盒子，可以随身携带——放在口袋里；在那里，它再次变得像一朵绚丽的双花——餐桌上的装饰品；现在’——先生。特朗布尔让这朵花令人震惊地落入一串心形的叶子中——“一本谜语书！”不少于五百张，用美丽的红色印刷。先生们，如果我少点良心，我就不希望你们出高价买下这件拍品——我自己也很向往。还有什么比一个好谜语更能促进天真的欢乐，我可以说是美德呢？——它阻止亵渎的语言，让男人与优雅的女性交往。这件巧妙的物品本身，如果没有优雅的多米诺骨牌盒、卡片篮等，单凭这一点就应该给这批拍品带来很高的价格。放在口袋里，它可能会受到任何社会的欢迎。四先令，先生？——四先令就可以买这本非凡的谜语集，还有其他的谜语。这是一个示例：“你必须如何拼写蜂蜜才能让它捕捉瓢虫？”答案是——钱。’你听到了吗？——瓢虫——蜂蜜钱。这是一种磨练智力的娱乐；它有刺——它有我们所说的讽刺和不伤风雅的智慧。四又六便士——五先令。”

The bidding ran on with warming rivalry. Mr. Bowyer was a bidder, and this was too exasperating. Bowyer couldn’t afford it, and only wanted to hinder every other man from making a figure. The current carried even Mr. Horrock with it, but this committal of himself to an opinion fell from him with so little sacrifice of his neutral expression, that the bid might not have been detected as his but for the friendly oaths of Mr. Bambridge, who wanted to know what Horrock would do with blasted stuff only fit for haberdashers given over to that state of perdition which the horse-dealer so cordially recognized in the majority of earthly existences. The lot was finally knocked down at a guinea to Mr. Spilkins, a young Slender of the neighborhood, who was reckless with his pocket-money and felt his want of memory for riddles.
竞标继续进行，竞争日益激烈。鲍耶先生是竞标者，这太令人气愤了。鲍耶买不起，只是想阻碍其他人发扬光大。潮流甚至把霍罗克先生也带走了，但是他自己对某种意见的承诺却从他身上消失了，而他的中立表达几乎没有牺牲，以至于如果没有班布里奇先生的友好誓言，他的出价可能不会被发现。他们想知道霍罗克会用那些只适合男装店的该死的东西做什么，马贩子如此真诚地承认大多数地球上的存在都陷入了毁灭状态。最终，斯皮尔金斯先生以几基尼的价格将这批土地买了下来，斯皮尔金斯先生是附近的一个年轻的瘦人，他对零用钱很不计后果，而且觉得自己缺乏记忆谜语的能力。

‘Come, Trumbull, this is too bad—you’ve been putting some old maid’s rubbish into the sale,’ murmured Mr. Toller, getting close to the auctioneer. ‘I want to see how the prints go, and I must be off soon.’
“来吧，特朗布尔，这太糟糕了——你把一些老处女的垃圾放进了拍卖中，”托勒先生靠近拍卖师低声说道。 “我想看看打印效果如何，我必须尽快离开。”

‘IMmediately, Mr. Toller. It was only an act of benevolence which your noble heart would approve. Joseph! quick with the prints— Lot 235. Now, gentlemen, you who are connoissURES, you are going to have a treat. Here is an engraving of the Duke of Wellington surrounded by his staff on the Field of Waterloo; and notwithstanding recent events which have, as it were, enveloped our great Hero in a cloud, I will be bold to say— for a man in my line must not be blown about by political winds— that a finer subject—of the modern order, belonging to our own time and epoch—the understanding of man could hardly conceive: angels might, perhaps, but not men, sirs, not men.’
“马上，托勒先生。这只是一种仁慈的行为，你的高尚之心会认可。约瑟夫！快速处理版画——第 235 号拍品。现在，先生们，鉴赏家们，你们将有幸享受一番。这是滑铁卢战场上惠灵顿公爵被他的幕僚包围的雕刻；尽管最近发生的事件将我们伟大的英雄笼罩在乌云中，但我仍可以大胆地说——因为我这一行的人决不能被政治风所左右——这是现代秩序的一个更好的主题，属于我们自己的时代和时代——人类的理解力几乎无法想象：天使也许可以，但人类不行，先生们，人类不行。

‘Who painted it?’ said Mr. Powderell, much impressed.
“这是谁画的？”波德尔先生印象深刻地说。

‘It is a proof before the letter, Mr. Powderell—the painter is not known,’ answered Trumbull, with a certain gaspingness in his last words, after which he pursed up his lips and stared round him.
“这是信前的证明，波德尔先生——画家不详。”特朗布尔回答道，他的最后一句话有些气喘吁吁，随后他撅起嘴唇，环顾四周。

‘I’ll bid a pound!’ said Mr. Powderell, in a tone of resolved emotion, as of a man ready to put himself in the breach. Whether from awe or pity, nobody raised the price on him.
“我出一英镑！”波德尔先生说道，语气中充满了坚定的情感，就像一个准备将自己置于困境的人。无论出于敬畏还是怜悯，没有人对他加价。

Next came two Dutch prints which Mr. Toller had been eager for, and after he had secured them he went away. Other prints, and afterwards some paintings, were sold to leading Middlemarchers who had come with a special desire for them, and there was a more active movement of the audience in and out; some, who had bought what they wanted, going away, others coming in either quite newly or from a temporary visit to the refreshments which were spread under the marquee on the lawn. It was this marquee that Mr. Bambridge was bent on buying, and he appeared to like looking inside it frequently, as a foretaste of its possession. On the last occasion of his return from it he was observed to bring with him a new companion, a stranger to Mr. Trumbull and every one else, whose appearance, however, led to the supposition that he might be a relative of the horse-dealer’s— also ‘given to indulgence.’ His large whiskers, imposing swagger, and swing of the leg, made him a striking figure; but his suit of black, rather shabby at the edges, caused the prejudicial inference that he was not able to afford himself as much indulgence as he liked.
接下来是托勒先生渴望已久的两幅荷兰版画，他拿到它们后就离开了。其他版画，以及后来的一些画作，被卖给了对这些画有特殊渴望的米德尔马彻领军人物，观众进进出出的动作更加活跃。有些人买了自己想要的东西就走开了，另一些人要么是刚刚进来，要么是临时参观了草坪上的帐篷下铺着的茶点。班布里奇先生一心要买的就是这个大帐篷，他似乎喜欢经常查看它的内部，作为拥有它的预尝。在他最后一次从那里回来时，人们发现他带来了一个新同伴，对特朗布尔先生和其他人来说都是陌生人，然而，他的出现使人们猜测他可能是这匹马的亲戚——商人的——也“放纵”。他的大胡子、威风凛凛的神气和摆动的腿，使他成为一个引人注目的人物；但他的黑色西装边缘相当破旧，引起了人们的偏见，认为他无法让自己尽情享受。

‘Who is it you’ve picked up, Bam?’ said Mr. Horrock, aside.
“巴姆，你接的是谁？”霍罗克先生在一旁说道。

‘Ask him yourself,’ returned Mr. Bambridge. ‘He said he’d just turned in from the road.’
“你自己去问他吧，”班布里奇先生回答道。 “他说他刚刚从路上拐进来。”

Mr. Horrock eyed the stranger, who was leaning back against his stick with one hand, using his toothpick with the other, and looking about him with a certain restlessness apparently under the silence imposed on him by circumstances.
霍罗克先生看着这个陌生人，他一只手靠在手杖上，另一只手拿着牙签，带着某种不安的神情环顾四周，显然是在环境所强加的沉默之下。

At length the ‘Supper at Emmaus’ was brought forward, to Wills immense relief, for he was getting so tired of the proceedings that he had drawn back a little and leaned his shoulder against the wall just behind the auctioneer. He now came forward again, and his eye caught the conspicuous stranger, who, rather to his surprise, was staring at him markedly. But Will was immediately appealed to by Mr. Trumbull.
最后，“以马忤斯的晚餐”提前举行，这让威尔松了一口气，因为他已经厌倦了这个过程，所以他退了一步，把肩膀靠在拍卖师后面的墙上。现在他又向前走来，他的目光注意到了那个显眼的陌生人，令他惊讶的是，这个陌生人正在明显地盯着他看。但特朗布尔先生立即向威尔发出了呼吁。

‘Yes, Mr. Ladislaw, yes; this interests you as a connoissURE, I think. It is some pleasure,’ the auctioneer went on with a rising fervor, ‘to have a picture like this to show to a company of ladies and gentlemen—a picture worth any sum to an individual whose means were on a level with his judgment. It is a painting of the Italian school—by the celebrated Guydo, the greatest painter in the world, the chief of the Old Masters, as they are called— I take it, because they were up to a thing or two beyond most of us— in possession of secrets now lost to the bulk of mankind. Let me tell you, gentlemen, I have seen a great many pictures by the Old Masters, and they are not all up to this mark—some of them are darker than you might like and not family subjects. But here is a Guydo—the frame alone is worth pounds—which any lady might be proud to hang up—a suitable thing for what we call a refectory in a charitable institution, if any gentleman of the Corporation wished to show his munifiCENCE. Turn it a little, sir? yes. Joseph, turn it a little towards Mr. Ladislaw—Mr. Ladislaw, having been abroad, understands the merit of these things, you observe.’
“是的，拉迪斯瓦夫先生，是的；我想，作为鉴赏家，你会对这一点感兴趣。拍卖师热情高涨地继续说道，“能够向一群女士和先生们展示这样的一幅画，对于一个财力与他的判断力相当的人来说，这幅画价值不菲。”这是一幅意大利画派的画作——出自著名的盖多之手，他是世界上最伟大的画家，被称为古代大师的领袖——我这么认为，是因为他们的所作所为比我们大多数人都高出一两点——拥有大多数人类现在已经失去的秘密。让我告诉你们，先生们，我看过很多古代大师的作品，但它们并不都达到这个标准——其中一些比你们想象的要暗，而且不是家庭题材。但这是一个Guydo——光是框架就值英镑——任何一位女士都会自豪地把它挂起来——如果公司的任何一位绅士希望表现出他的慷慨，那么它适合我们所说的慈善机构的食堂。先生，稍微转动一下好吗？是的。约瑟夫，把它转向拉迪斯瓦先生——先生。你观察到，拉迪斯瓦夫出过国，了解这些事情的优点。

All eyes were for a moment turned towards Will, who said, coolly, ‘Five pounds.’ The auctioneer burst out in deep remonstrance.
一时间所有人的目光都转向威尔，威尔冷冷地说：“五英镑。”拍卖师突然发出深深的抗议。

‘Ah! Mr. Ladislaw! the frame alone is worth that. Ladies and gentlemen, for the credit of the town! Suppose it should be discovered hereafter that a gem of art has been amongst us in this town, and nobody in Middlemarch awake to it. Five guineas—five seven-six— five ten. Still, ladies, still! It is a gem, and ‘Full many a gem,’ as the poet says, has been allowed to go at a nominal pride because the public knew no better, because it was offered in circles where there was—I was going to say a low feeling, but no!—Six pounds— six guineas—a Guydo of the first order going at six guineas— it is an insult to religion, ladies; it touches us all as Christians, gentlemen, that a subject like this should go at such a low figure— six pounds ten—seven—‘
'啊！拉迪斯瓦夫先生！仅框架就值得了。女士们、先生们，为了这座城市的荣誉！假设此后人们会发现这座小镇里有一件艺术瑰宝，而米德尔马奇却没有人注意到它。五几尼——五七六——五十。仍然，女士们，仍然！它是一颗宝石，正如诗人所说，“完全是一颗宝石”，已被允许以名义上的自豪感出售，因为公众对此一无所知，因为它是在圈子里提供的——我想说的是心情低落，但不！——六英镑——六几尼——一等的盖多要六几尼——这是对宗教的侮辱，女士们；这是对宗教的侮辱。先生们，作为基督徒，我们所有人都感到感动，像这样的主题应该以如此低的数字——六英镑十——七——”

The bidding was brisk, and Will continued to share in it, remembering that Mrs. Bulstrode had a strong wish for the picture, and thinking that he might stretch the price to twelve pounds. But it was knocked down to him at ten guineas, whereupon he pushed his way towards the bow-window and went out. He chose to go under the marquee to get a glass of water, being hot and thirsty: it was empty of other visitors, and he asked the woman in attendance to fetch him some fresh water; but before she was well gone he was annoyed to see entering the florid stranger who had stared at him. It struck Will at this moment that the man might be one of those political parasitic insects of the bloated kind who had once or twice claimed acquaintance with him as having heard him speak on the Reform question, and who might think of getting a shilling by news. In this light his person, already rather heating to behold on a summer’s day, appeared the more disagreeable; and Will, half-seated on the elbow of a garden-chair, turned his eyes carefully away from the comer. But this signified little to our acquaintance Mr. Raffles, who never hesitated to thrust himself on unwilling observation, if it suited his purpose to do so. He moved. a step or two till he was in front of Will, and said with full-mouthed haste, ‘Excuse me, Mr. Ladislaw— was your mother’s name Sarah Dunkirk?’
出价很热烈，威尔继续参与其中，因为他记得布尔斯特罗德夫人对这幅画有强烈的愿望，并认为他可以将价格提高到十二英镑。但他被以十几尼的价格买了下来，于是他推开弓窗走了出去。由于又热又渴，他选择到帐篷下面去喝水，因为里面没有其他游客，他让在场的女士给他拿点淡水；但他却没有人来。但在她走开之前，他很恼火地看到那个一直盯着他看的脸色红润的陌生人进来了。威尔此时突然意识到，这个人可能是那种臃肿的政治寄生虫之一，曾有一两次声称与他相识，因为听过他关于改革问题的演讲，并且可能会想通过新闻来赚一先令。 。从这个角度来看，他这个在夏日看起来已经相当炎热的人，就显得更加令人讨厌了。威尔半坐在花园椅子的肘部上，小心地把目光从角落上移开。但这对我们的熟人莱佛士先生来说意义不大，只要符合他的目的，他就会毫不犹豫地进行不情愿的观察。他动了。走了一两步，他来到了威尔面前，满口急促地说：“请问，拉迪斯瓦夫先生——你母亲的名字是莎拉·敦刻尔克吗？”

Will, starting to his feet, moved backward a step, frowning, and saying with some fierceness, ‘Yes, sir, it was. And what is that to you?’
威尔站了起来，向后退了一步，皱着眉头，有些凶狠地说：“是的，先生，确实如此。”那对你来说又是什么？

It was in Will’s nature that the first spark it threw out was a direct answer of the question and a challenge of the consequences. To have said, ‘What is that to you?’ in the first instance, would have seemed like shuffling—as if he minded who knew anything about his origin!
威尔的本性是，它抛出的第一个火花就是对问题的直接回答和对后果的挑战。如果说“那对你来说有什么意义？”一开始，他会显得像是在拖拖拉拉——就好像他介意谁知道他的出身！

Raffles on his side had not the same eagerness for a collision which was implied in Ladislaw’s threatening air. The slim young fellow with his girl’s complexion looked like a tiger-cat ready to spring on him. Under such circumstances Mr. Raffles’s pleasure in annoying his company was kept in abeyance.
他这边的莱佛士并不像拉迪斯瓦威胁的神情中那样渴望发生碰撞。那个有着少女肤色的瘦小青年，看上去就像一只准备向他扑来的虎猫。在这种情况下，莱佛士先生打扰他的公司的乐趣就被搁置了。

‘No offence, my good sir, no offence! I only remember your mother— knew her when she was a girl. But it is your father that you feature, sir. I had the pleasure of seeing your father too. Parents alive, Mr. Ladislaw?’
“无意冒犯，我的好先生，无意冒犯！我只记得你的母亲——在她还是个小女孩的时候就认识她了。但你的主角是你的父亲，先生。我也很高兴见到你父亲。拉迪斯瓦先生，父母还活着吗？

‘No!’ thundered Will, in the same attitude as before.
“不！”威尔怒吼道，态度和以前一样。

‘Should be glad to do you a service, Mr. Ladislaw—by Jove, I should! Hope to meet again.’
“我很高兴为您服务，拉迪斯瓦夫先生——天哪，我应该的！”希望再次见面。

Hereupon Raffles, who had lifted his hat with the last words, turned himself round with a swing of his leg and walked away. Will looked after him a moment, and could see that he did not re-enter the auction-room, but appeared to be walking towards the road. For an instant he thought that he had been foolish not to let the man go on talking;—but no! on the whole he preferred doing without knowledge from that source.
说完最后一句话，莱佛士举起帽子，一摆腿转身走开。威尔看了他一眼，发现他并没有重新进入拍卖场，而是似乎正朝大路走去。有那么一瞬间，他觉得自己很愚蠢，没有让这个人继续说话；——但是没有！总体而言，他更喜欢在不了解该来源的情况下进行工作。

Later in the evening, however, Raffles overtook him in the street, and appearing either to have forgotten the roughness of his former reception or to intend avenging it by a forgiving familiarity, greeted him jovially and walked by his side, remarking at first on the pleasantness of the town and neighbor hood. Will suspected that the man had been drinking and was considering how to shake him off when Raffles said—
然而，傍晚时分，莱佛士在街上追上了他，似乎是忘记了他之前受到的粗暴对待，或者打算以一种宽容的熟悉来报复，他愉快地向他打招呼，走在他身边，一开始在他身边说道。城镇和邻里的宜人氛围。威尔怀疑那个男人喝了酒，正在考虑如何甩掉他，这时莱佛士说——

‘I’ve been abroad myself, Mr. Ladislaw—I’ve seen the world— used to parley-vous a little. It was at Boulogne I saw your father— a most uncommon likeness you are of him, by Jove! mouth—nose—eyes— hair turned off your brow just like his—a little in the foreign style. John Bull doesn’t do much of that. But your father was very ill when I saw him. Lord, lord! hands you might see through. You were a small youngster then. Did he get well?’
“我自己也出过国，拉迪斯瓦夫先生——我见过世面——习惯了和你谈判。”我在布洛涅见到了你的父亲——天哪，你与他有着极不寻常的相似之处！嘴——鼻子——眼睛——头发从眉毛上垂下来，就像他的一样——有点外国风格。约翰牛并没有做太多这样的事情。但当我见到你父亲时，他病得很重。主啊，主啊！你可能会看穿的手。那时你还是个小青年。他康复了吗？

‘No,’ said Will, curtly.
“不，”威尔简短地说。

‘Ah! Well! I’ve often wondered what became of your mother. She ran away from her friends when she was a young lass— a proud-spirited lass, and pretty, by Jove! I knew the reason why she ran away,’ said Raffles, winking slowly as he looked sideways at Will.
'啊！出色地！我常常想知道你母亲怎么样了。当她还是个年轻姑娘的时候，她就逃离了她的朋友们——天哪，她是一个骄傲的姑娘，而且很漂亮！我知道她逃跑的原因。”莱佛士一边说，一边慢慢地眨着眼睛，侧身看着威尔。

‘You know nothing dishonorable of her, sir,’ said Will, turning on him rather savagely. But Mr. Raffles just now was not sensitive to shades of manner.
“你对她一无所知，先生。”威尔说着，相当粗暴地转向他。但刚才的莱佛士先生对态度的深浅并不敏感。

‘Not a bit!’ said he, tossing his head decisively ‘She was a little too honorable to like her friends—that was it!’ Here Raffles again winked slowly. ‘Lord bless you, I knew all about ‘em— a little in what you may call the respectable thieving line— the high style of receiving-house—none of your holes and corners— first-rate. Slap-up shop, high profits and no mistake. But Lord! Sarah would have known nothing about it—a dashing young lady she was— fine boarding-school—fit for a lord’s wife—only Archie Duncan threw it at her out of spite, because she would have nothing to do with him. And so she ran away from the whole concern. I travelled for ‘em, sir, in a gentlemanly way—at a high salary. They didn’t mind her running away at first—godly folks, sir, very godly—and she was for the stage. The son was alive then, and the daughter was at a discount. Hallo! here we are at the Blue Bull. What do you say, Mr. Ladislaw?—shall we turn in and have a glass?’
“一点也不！”他果断地摇头说道，“她有点太光荣了，不喜欢她的朋友——就是这样！”说到这里，莱佛士又慢慢地眨了眨眼睛。 “上帝保佑你，我对他们了如指掌——对你所谓的可敬的盗窃行有一点了解——接收室的高雅风格——没有任何洞和角落——一流。大牌店，利润高，不会出错。但是主啊！莎拉对此一无所知——她是一位风度翩翩的年轻女士——优秀的寄宿学校——适合勋爵的妻子——只有阿奇·邓肯出于恶意才把它扔给她，因为她不会和他有任何关系。于是她就逃避了所有的担忧。先生，我以一种绅士的方式为他们旅行——拿着高薪。他们一开始并不介意她逃跑——敬虔的人们，先生，非常敬虔——而且她是为了舞台。那时儿子还活着，女儿已经折了。你好！我们现在在蓝牛。你觉得怎么样，拉迪斯瓦夫先生？——我们去喝一杯好吗？

‘No, I must say good evening,’ said Will, dashing up a passage which led into Lowick Gate, and almost running to get out of Raffles’s reach.
“不，我必须说晚安，”威尔说着，冲上一条通向洛伊克门的通道，几乎跑到莱佛士够不到的地方。

He walked a long while on the Lowick road away from the town, glad of the starlit darkness when it came. He felt as if he had had dirt cast on him amidst shouts of scorn. There was this to confirm the fellow’s statement—that his mother never would tell him the reason why she had run away from her family.
他在远离城镇的洛威克路上走了很长一段时间，为夜幕降临时的星光灿烂感到高兴。在一片轻蔑的叫喊声中，他感觉自己身上仿佛沾满了泥土。这证实了那家伙的说法——他的母亲永远不会告诉他她逃离家人的原因。

Well! what was he, Will Ladislaw, the worse, supposing the truth about that family to be the ugliest? His mother had braved hardship in order to separate herself from it. But if Dorothea’s friends had known this story—if the Chettams had known it— they would have had a fine color to give their suspicions a welcome ground for thinking him unfit to come near her. However, let them suspect what they pleased, they would find themselves in the wrong. They would find out that the blood in his veins was as free from the taint of meanness as theirs.
出色地！他，威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫，更糟糕的是，他认为那个家庭的真相是最丑陋的？他的母亲为了摆脱困境，历尽艰辛。但如果多萝西娅的朋友们知道了这个故事——如果切塔姆夫妇知道了——他们就会有一个很好的理由，让他们的怀疑有一个受欢迎的理由，因为他们认为他不适合接近她。然而，让他们随心所欲地怀疑，他们就会发现自己错了。他们会发现他血管里的血液和他们的一样没有卑鄙的污点。

CHAPTER LXI
第十六章

‘Inconsistencies,’ answered Imlac, ‘cannot both be right, but imputed to man they may both be true.’—Rasselas.
“不一致，”伊姆拉克回答说，“不可能都是正确的，但归咎于人类，它们可能都是正确的。”——拉塞拉斯。

The same night, when Mr. Bulstrode returned from a journey to Brassing on business, his good wife met him in the entrance-hall and drew him into his private sitting-room.
当天晚上，当布尔斯特罗德先生从布拉辛出差回来时，他的好妻子在门厅迎接了他，并把他拉进了他的私人客厅。

‘Nicholas,’ she said, fixing her honest eyes upon him anxiously, ‘there has been such a disagreeable man here asking for you—it has made me quite uncomfortable.’
“尼古拉斯，”她说，用诚实的眼睛焦急地盯着他，“有一个如此令人讨厌的人在这里找你——这让我很不舒服。”

‘What kind of man, my dear,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, dreadfully certain of the answer.
“亲爱的，这是一个什么样的人？”布尔斯特罗德先生说，他对这个答案非常肯定。

‘A red-faced man with large whiskers, and most impudent in his manner. He declared he was an old friend of yours, and said you would be sorry not to see him. He wanted to wait for you here, but I told him he could see you at the Bank to-morrow morning. Most impudent he was!—stared at me, and said his friend Nick had luck in wives. I don’t believe he would have gone away, if Blucher had not happened to break his chain and come running round on the gravel— for I was in the garden; so I said, ‘You’d better go away—the dog is very fierce, and I can’t hold him.’ Do you really know anything of such a man?’
“一个红脸男人，留着大胡子，举止极其无礼。他宣称他是你的老朋友，并说如果你见不到他，你会感到遗憾。他想在这里等你，但我告诉他明天早上他可以在银行见到你。他真是太无礼了！——盯着我，说他的朋友尼克娶妻有福。如果布吕歇尔没有碰巧挣脱了锁链，在碎石路上跑来跑去，我相信他不会走开——因为我当时在花园里；于是我说：“你最好走开，那狗很凶，我抓不住他。你真的了解这样的人吗？”

‘I believe I know who he is, my dear,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, in his usual subdued voice, ‘an unfortunate dissolute wretch, whom I helped too much in days gone by. However, I presume you will not be troubled by him again. He will probably come to the Bank— to beg, doubtless.’
“我相信我知道他是谁，亲爱的，”布尔斯特罗德先生用他一贯的柔和的声音说道，“一个不幸的放荡的坏蛋，我在过去的日子里给了他太多帮助。不过，我想你不会再被他打扰了。毫无疑问，他可能会来银行乞讨。

No more was said on the subject until the next day, when Mr. Bulstrode had returned from the town and was dressing for dinner. His wife, not sure that he was come home, looked into his dressing-room and saw him with his coat and cravat off, leaning one arm on a chest of drawers and staring absently at the ground. He started nervously and looked up as she entered.
直到第二天，布尔斯特罗德先生从镇上回来，正准备吃晚饭时，才对这个话题进行了更多的讨论。他的妻子不确定他是否回家了，她走进更衣室，看到他脱掉了外套和领带，一只手臂靠在五斗橱上，心不在焉地盯着地面。当她进来时，他紧张地抬起头来。

‘You look very ill, Nicholas. Is there anything the matter?’
“你看上去病得很重，尼古拉斯。有什么事吗？

‘I have a good deal of pain in my head,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, who was so frequently ailing that his wife was always ready to believe in this cause of depression.
“我的头很痛，”布尔斯特罗德先生说，他经常生病，以至于他的妻子总是相信抑郁症是由这个原因引起的。

‘Sit down and let me sponge it with vinegar.’
“坐下来，让我用醋擦拭它。”

Physically Mr. Bulstrode did not want the vinegar, but morally the affectionate attention soothed him. Though always polite, it was his habit to receive such services with marital coolness, as his wife’s duty. But to-day, while she was bending over him, he said, ‘You are very good, Harriet,’ in a tone which had something new in it to her ear; she did not know exactly what the novelty was, but her woman’s solicitude shaped itself into a darting thought that he might be going to have an illness.
从身体上来说，布尔斯特罗德先生并不想要醋，但从精神上来说，深情的关注让他感到安心。虽然总是彬彬有礼，但他习惯以婚姻的冷静接受此类服务，这是他妻子的职责。但今天，当她俯身在他身上时，他说：“你很好，哈丽特。”她的语气听起来有些新奇。她不知道到底是什么新鲜事，但她女人的关心使她突然想到他可能会生病。

‘Has anything worried you?’ she said. ‘Did that man come to you at the Bank?’
“有什么事让你担心吗？”她说。 “那个人来银行找过你吗？”

‘Yes; it was as I had supposed. He is a man who at one time might have done better. But he has sunk into a drunken debauched creature.’
'是的;正如我所料。他是一个曾经可能做得更好的人。但他已经沦落为一个醉酒放荡的人了。

‘Is he quite gone away?’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, anxiously but for certain reasons she refrained from adding, ‘It was very disagreeable to hear him calling himself a friend of yours.’ At that moment she would not have liked to say anything which implied her habitual consciousness that her husband’s earlier connections were not quite on a level with her own. Not that she knew much about them. That her husband had at first been employed in a bank, that he had afterwards entered into what he called city business and gained a fortune before he was three-and-thirty, that he had married a widow who was much older than himself—a Dissenter, and in other ways probably of that disadvantageous quality usually perceptible in a first wife if inquired into with the dispassionate judgment of a second—was almost as much as she had cared to learn beyond the glimpses which Mr. Bulstrode’s narrative occasionally gave of his early bent towards religion, his inclination to be a preacher, and his association with missionary and philanthropic efforts. She believed in him as an excellent man whose piety carried a peculiar eminence in belonging to a layman, whose influence had turned her own mind toward seriousness, and whose share of perishable good had been the means of raising her own position. But she also liked to think that it was well in every sense for Mr. Bulstrode to have won the hand of Harriet Vincy; whose family was undeniable in a Middlemarch light—a better light surely than any thrown in London thoroughfares or dissenting chapel-yards. The unreformed provincial mind distrusted London; and while true religion was everywhere saving, honest Mrs. Bulstrode was convinced that to be saved in the Church was more respectable. She so much wished to ignore towards others that her husband had ever been a London Dissenter, that she liked to keep it out of sight even in talking to him. He was quite aware of this; indeed in some respects he was rather afraid of this ingenuous wife, whose imitative piety and native worldliness were equally sincere, who had nothing to be ashamed of, and whom he had married out of a thorough inclination still subsisting. But his fears were such as belong to a man who cares to maintain his recognized supremacy: the loss of high consideration from his wife, as from every one else who did not clearly hate him out of enmity to the truth, would be as the beginning of death to him. When she said—
“他已经走了吗？”布尔斯特罗德夫人焦急地说，但由于某些原因，她没有再补充，“听到他称自己是你的朋友，我感到非常不舒服。”在那一刻，她不想说什么。这意味着她习惯性地意识到，她丈夫早年的关系与她自己的关系不太一样。并不是说她对他们了解很多。她的丈夫最初在一家银行工作，后来进入了他所谓的城市生意，在三岁半之前就赚了一笔钱，他娶了一个比他大得多的寡妇——持不同政见者，在其他方面可能具有第一任妻子通常可以察觉到的不利品质，如果用第二任妻子的冷静判断来询问的话，这几乎是她在布尔斯特罗德先生的叙述中偶尔瞥见他的情况之外所关心了解的。他很早就对宗教产生了兴趣，他倾向于成为一名传教士，以及他与传教士和慈善事业的联系。她相信他是一个优秀的人，他的虔诚在外行人中具有特殊的地位，他的影响使她自己的思想变得严肃，他分享的易腐烂的善行成为提高她自己地位的手段。但她也喜欢认为布尔斯特罗德先生赢得哈丽雅特·文西的芳心从各方面来说都是件好事。在米德尔马奇的灯光下，他的家庭是不可否认的——这肯定比伦敦大街或持不同政见的教堂院子里的任何灯光都要好。未经改革的外省思想不信任伦敦。虽然真正的宗教到处都在拯救人，但诚实的布尔斯特罗德夫人坚信，在教会中得救更受人尊敬。 她非常希望忽视其他人，因为她的丈夫曾经是伦敦持不同政见者，因此即使在与他交谈时，她也喜欢将其隐藏起来。他很清楚这一点。事实上，在某些方面，他相当害怕这个天真的妻子，她的模仿虔诚和天生的世俗是同样真诚的，她没有什么可羞耻的，他娶她是出于一种仍然存在的彻底的倾向。但他的恐惧是属于一个想要维持自己公认的至高无上地位的男人所共有的：失去妻子的高度重视，就像失去所有其他不是出于对真理的敌意而明显恨他的人一样，这将是一个开始对他来说是死亡。 当她说——

‘Is he quite gone away?’
“他已经走了吗？”

‘Oh, I trust so,’ he answered, with an effort to throw as much sober unconcern into his tone as possible!
“哦，我相信是这样，”他回答道，并努力在语气中注入尽可能清醒的漠不关心！

But in truth Mr. Bulstrode was very far from a state of quiet trust. In the interview at the Bank, Raffles had made it evident that his eagerness to torment was almost as strong in him as any other greed. He had frankly said that he had turned out of the way to come to Middlemarch, just to look about him and see whether the neighborhood would suit him to live in. He had certainly had a few debts to pay more than he expected, but the two hundred pounds were not gone yet: a cool five-and-twenty would suffice him to go away with for the present. What he had wanted chiefly was to see his friend Nick and family, and know all about the prosperity of a man to whom he was so much attached. By-and-by he might come back for a longer stay. This time Raffles declined to be ‘seen off the premises,’ as he expressed it—declined to quit Middlemarch under Bulstrode’s eyes. He meant to go by coach the next day—if he chose.
但事实上，布尔斯特罗德先生远非处于一种安静的信任状态。在银行的采访中，莱佛士明确表示，他对折磨的渴望几乎与其他贪婪一样强烈。他坦白地说，他特意来到米德尔马奇，只是为了看看周围是否适合他居住。他当然有一些债务需要偿还，比他预期的要多，但是两百英镑还没有花完：五英镑和二十英镑就足够他暂时离开了。他主要想要的是见到他的朋友尼克和家人，了解他如此依恋的一个人的繁荣。不久之后，他可能会回来停留更长时间。这一次，莱佛士拒绝被“送走”，正如他所说的那样——拒绝在布尔斯特罗德的注视下离开米德尔马契。如果他愿意的话，他打算第二天坐长途汽车去。

Bulstrode felt himself helpless. Neither threats nor coaxing could avail: he could not count on any persistent fear nor on any promise. On the contrary, he felt a cold certainty at his heart that Raffles—unless providence sent death to hinder him— would come back to Middlemarch before long. And that certainty was a terror.
布尔斯特罗德感到自己很无助。威胁和哄骗都不起作用：他不能指望任何持续的恐惧，也不能指望任何承诺。相反，他心里有一种冰冷的确定性：莱佛士——除非上天赐予死亡来阻碍他——不久就会回到米德尔马契。这种确定性是一种恐惧。

It was not that he was in danger of legal punishment or of beggary: he was in danger only of seeing disclosed to the judgment of his neighbors and the mournful perception of his wife certain facts of his past life which would render him an object of scorn and an opprobrium of the religion with which he had diligently associated himself. The terror of being judged sharpens the memory: it sends an inevitable glare over that long-unvisited past which has been habitually recalled only in general phrases. Even without memory, the life is bound into one by a zone of dependence in growth and decay; but intense memory forces a man to own his blameworthy past. With memory set smarting like a reopened wound, a man’s past is not simply a dead history, an outworn preparation of the present: it is not a repented error shaken loose from the life: it is a still quivering part of himself, bringing shudders and bitter flavors and the tinglings of a merited shame.
这并不是说他面临着受到法律惩罚或乞讨的危险：他面临的危险只是看到他的邻居对他的判断以及他妻子的悲痛看法透露了他过去生活的某些事实，这些事实将使他成为嘲笑的对象以及对他孜孜不倦地信仰的宗教的谴责。被评判的恐惧使记忆变得更加敏锐：它不可避免地对那些长期无人提及的过去发出了强烈的目光，而人们习惯性地只用笼统的短语来回忆起这些过去。即使没有记忆，生命也被生长和衰退的依赖区束缚在一起；但强烈的记忆力迫使一个人承认自己应受谴责的过去。记忆就像重新撕开的伤口一样刺痛，一个人的过去不仅仅是一段死亡的历史，是对现在的过时的准备：它不是一个从生活中摆脱出来的悔过的错误：它是他自己仍然颤抖的一部分，带来战栗和恐惧。苦涩的味道和应得的耻辱的刺痛。

Into this second life Bulstrode’s past had now risen, only the pleasures of it seeming to have lost their quality. Night and day, without interruption save of brief sleep which only wove retrospect and fear into a fantastic present, he felt the scenes of his earlier life coming between him and everything else, as obstinately as when we look through the window from a lighted room, the objects we turn our backs on are still before us, instead of the grass and the trees The successive events inward and outward were there in one view: though each might be dwelt on in turn, the rest still kept their hold in the consciousness.
布尔斯特罗德的过去已经进入了第二次生命，只是其中的乐趣似乎失去了它们的品质。夜以继日，除了短暂的睡眠之外，他没有间断，这只是将回忆和恐惧编织成一个梦幻般的现在，他感觉到他早年的生活场景在他和其他一切之间出现，就像我们从一个明亮的房间透过窗户看一样，固执地，我们背对的物体仍然在我们面前，而不是草和树。内在和外在的连续事件都存在于一个视图中：虽然每一个可能会被依次考虑，但其余的仍然保留在意识中。

Once more he saw himself the young banker’s clerk, with an agreeable person, as clever in figures as he was fluent in speech and fond of theological definition: an eminent though young member of a Calvinistic dissenting church at Highbury, having had striking experience in conviction of sin and sense of pardon. Again he heard himself called for as Brother Bulstrode in prayer meetings, speaking on religious platforms, preaching in private houses. Again he felt himself thinking of the ministry as possibly his vocation, and inclined towards missionary labor. That was the happiest time of his life: that was the spot he would have chosen now to awake in and find the rest a dream. The people among whom Brother Bulstrode was distinguished were very few, but they were very near to him, and stirred his satisfaction the more; his power stretched through a narrow space, but he felt its effect the more intensely. He believed without effort in the peculiar work of grace within him, and in the signs that God intended him for special instrumentality.
他再次看到自己是一位年轻的银行家职员，和蔼可亲，在数字上聪明，言语流利，喜欢神学定义：海布里加尔文主义异见教会的一位杰出但年轻的成员，在定罪方面有着惊人的经验。罪恶感和宽恕感。他再次听到自己被称为布尔斯特罗德弟兄，参加祈祷会、在宗教讲坛上演讲、在私人住宅中讲道。他再次感到自己认为传道工作可能是他的天职，并倾向于传教工作。那是他一生中最快乐的时光：他现在会选择在那里醒来，然后发现其余的时光都是一场梦。布尔斯特罗德弟兄中最出名的人很少，但他们离他很近，这让他更加满意。他的力量在狭小的空间中延伸，但他感受到的效果却更加强烈。他毫不费力地相信恩典在他里面的特殊工作，以及上帝打算让他成为特殊工具的迹象。

Then came the moment of transition; it was with the sense of promotion he had when he, an orphan educated at a commercial charity-school, was invited to a fine villa belonging to Mr. Dunkirk, the richest man in the congregation. Soon he became an intimate there, honored for his piety by the wife, marked out for his ability by the husband, whose wealth was due to a flourishing city and west-end trade. That was the setting-in of a new current for his ambition, directing his prospects of ‘instrumentality’ towards the uniting of distinguished religious gifts with successful business.
然后是转变的时刻；当他作为一个在一所商业慈善学校接受教育的孤儿被邀请去属于教会首富敦刻尔克先生的一栋精美别墅时，他感受到了晋升的感觉。很快，他就成为那里的密友，妻子因他的虔诚而尊敬他，丈夫因他的能力而称赞他，而丈夫的财富则归功于繁荣的城市和西区的贸易。这为他的雄心壮志开启了新的潮流，将他的“工具性”前景引向将杰出的宗教天赋与成功的商业结合起来。

By-and-by came a decided external leading: a confidential subordinate partner died, and nobody seemed to the principal so well fitted to fill the severely felt vacancy as his young friend Bulstrode, if he would become confidential accountant. The offer was accepted. The business was a pawnbroker’s, of the most magnificent sort both in extent and profits; and on a short acquaintance with it Bulstrode became aware that one source of magnificent profit was the easy reception of any goods offered, without strict inquiry as to where they came from. But there was a branch house at the west end, and no pettiness or dinginess to give suggestions of shame.
不久，一个决定性的外部领导出现了：一位机密的下属合伙人去世了，在校长看来，如果他想成为机密会计师，那么没有人比他年轻的朋友布尔斯特罗德更适合填补这个严重的空缺。该提议被接受。这是一家当铺的生意，无论是规模还是利润都是最宏大的。经过短暂的了解，布尔斯特罗德意识到巨额利润的一个来源是轻松接收所提供的任何商品，而无需严格询问它们来自哪里。但西端有一座分院，没有任何卑鄙或肮脏的地方让人感到羞耻。

He remembered his first moments of shrinking. They were private, and were filled with arguments; some of these taking the form of prayer. The business was established and had old roots; is it not one thing to set up a new gin-palace and another to accept an investment in an old one? The profits made out of lost souls— where can the line be drawn at which they begin in human transactions? Was it not even God’s way of saving His chosen? ‘Thou knowest,’— the young Bulstrode had said then, as the older Bulstrode was saying now— ‘Thou knowest how loose my soul sits from these things—how I view them all as implements for tilling Thy garden rescued here and there from the wilderness.’
他记得自己第一次畏缩的时刻。他们是私下的，充满了争论。其中一些以祈祷的形式进行。该企业已成立并有悠久的历史；建立一个新的杜松子酒宫殿不是一回事，而接受对旧杜松子酒宫殿的投资又是另一回事吗？从迷失的灵魂中赚取的利润——它们在人类交易中的界限在哪里？这难道不是神拯救他选民的方式吗？ “你知道，”——年轻的布尔斯特罗德当时说的，就像年长的布尔斯特罗德现在说的那样——“你知道我的灵魂对这些东西是多么的松散——我如何将它们视为耕种你的花园的工具，从这里那里拯救了荒野。'

Metaphors and precedents were not wanting; peculiar spiritual experiences were not wanting which at last made the retention of his position seem a service demanded of him: the vista of a fortune had already opened itself, and Bulstrode’s shrinking remained private. Mr. Dunkirk had never expected that there would be any shrinking at all: he had never conceived that trade had anything to do with the scheme of salvation. And it was true that Bulstrode found himself carrying on two distinct lives; his religious activity could not be incompatible with his business as soon as he had argued himself into not feeling it incompatible.
隐喻和先例并不缺乏；奇特的精神体验并不缺乏，这最终使保留他的职位似乎是他所要求的一项服务：财富的前景已经打开，而布尔斯特罗德的缩水仍然是私人的。敦刻尔克先生根本没想到会出现任何萎缩：他从来没有想到贸易与拯救计划有任何关系。布尔斯特罗德确实发现自己过着两种截然不同的生活：一旦他说服自己不觉得宗教活动与他的生意不相容，他的宗教活动就不可能不相容。

Mentally surrounded with that past again, Bulstrode had the same pleas—indeed, the years had been perpetually spinning them into intricate thickness, like masses of spider-web, padding the moral sensibility; nay, as age made egoism more eager but less enjoying, his soul had become more saturated with the belief that he did everything for God’s sake, being indifferent to it for his own. And yet—if he could be back in that far-off spot with his youthful poverty—why, then he would choose to be a missionary.
布尔斯特罗德的精神再次被过去所包围，他也有同样的恳求——事实上，岁月一直在把它们编织成错综复杂的厚度，就像大量的蜘蛛网，填充道德感性；不仅如此，随着年龄的增长，利己主义变得更加渴望，却越来越少享受，他的灵魂变得更加充满这样的信念：他所做的一切都是为了上帝，而对自己的一切漠不关心。然而——如果他能回到那个遥远的地方，带着他年轻时的贫困——为什么，那么他会选择成为一名传教士。

But the train of causes in which he had locked himself went on. There was trouble in the fine villa at Highbury. Years before, the only daughter had run away, defied her parents, and gone on the stage; and now the only boy died, and after a short time Mr. Dunkirk died also. The wife, a simple pious woman, left with all the wealth in and out of the magnificent trade, of which she never knew the precise nature, had come to believe in Bulstrode, and innocently adore him as women often adore their priest or ‘man-made’ minister. It was natural that after a time marriage should have been thought of between them. But Mrs. Dunkirk had qualms and yearnings about her daughter, who had long been regarded as lost both to God and her parents. It was known that the daughter had married, but she was utterly gone out of sight. The mother, having lost her boy, imagined a grandson, and wished in a double sense to reclaim her daughter. If she were found, there would be a channel for property— perhaps a wide one—in the provision for several grandchildren. Efforts to find her must be made before Mrs. Dunkirk would marry again. Bulstrode concurred; but after advertisement as well as other modes of inquiry had been tried, the mother believed that her daughter was not to be found, and consented to marry without reservation of property.
但他将自己锁在其中的一连串原因仍在继续。海布里的精美别墅里出了麻烦。几年前，唯一的女儿离家出走，反抗父母，登上了舞台；现在唯一的男孩死了，不久之后敦刻尔克先生也死了。妻子是一位单纯虔诚的女人，带着她从不知道其确切性质的宏伟贸易中进出的所有财富，开始相信布尔斯特罗德，并天真地崇拜他，就像女人经常崇拜她们的牧师或“男人”一样。 - 任命为部长。一段时间后，他们自然会考虑结婚。但敦刻尔克夫人对她的女儿心存疑虑和渴望，长期以来，她一直被视为上帝和她父母都失去了女儿。众所周知，女儿已经结婚了，但她却完全消失在人们的视线中。母亲失去了儿子，想象出一个孙子，并双重地希望夺回她的女儿。如果她被发现，就会有一个财产渠道——也许是一个广泛的渠道——来养活几个孙子。在敦刻尔克夫人再次结婚之前，必须努力找到她。布尔斯特罗德表示同意；但在尝试了广告和其他询问方式后，母亲认为找不到女儿，同意在不保留财产的情况下结婚。

The daughter had been found; but only one man besides Bulstrode knew it, and he was paid for keeping silence and carrying himself away.
女儿已经找到了；但除了布尔斯特罗德之外，只有一个人知道这一点，而他因保持沉默和失态而得到报酬。

That was the bare fact which Bulstrode was now forced to see in the rigid outline with which acts present themselves onlookers. But for himself at that distant time, and even now in burning memory, the fact was broken into little sequences, each justified as it came by reasonings which seemed to prove it righteous. Bulstrode’s course up to that time had, he thought, been sanctioned by remarkable providences, appearing to point the way for him to be the agent in making the best use of a large property and withdrawing it from perversion. Death and other striking dispositions, such as feminine trustfulness, had come; and Bulstrode would have adopted Cromwell’s words— ‘Do you call these bare events? The Lord pity you!’ The events were comparatively small, but the essential condition was there— namely, that they were in favor of his own ends. It was easy for him to settle what was due from him to others by inquiring what were God’s intentions with regard to himself. Could it be for God’s service that this fortune should in any considerable proportion go to a young woman and her husband who were given up to the lightest pursuits, and might scatter it abroad in triviality— people who seemed to lie outside the path of remarkable providences? Bulstrode had never said to himself beforehand, ‘The daughter shall not be found’—nevertheless when the moment came he kept her existence hidden; and when other moments followed, he soothed the mother with consolation in the probability that the unhappy young woman might be no more.
这就是布尔斯特罗德现在被迫从行为呈现给旁观者的严格轮廓中看到的赤裸裸的事实。但对于他自己来说，在那个遥远的时代，甚至现在在灼热的记忆中，事实被分解成小序列，每一个序列都通过似乎证明其正义的推理来证明其合理性。他认为，布尔斯特罗德当时的做法已经得到了非凡的天意的认可，似乎为他指明了道路，使他能够成为充分利用一大笔财产并将其从扭曲中撤回的代理人。死亡和其他显着的性格，例如女性的信任，已经到来。布尔斯特罗德会采纳克伦威尔的话——“你称这些事件为赤裸裸的事件吗？”主怜悯你吧！’这些事件相对较小，但基本条件是存在的——也就是说，它们有利于他自己的目的。他很容易通过询问上帝对他自己的意图来解决他对别人的亏欠。难道是为了上帝的缘故，这笔财产中的很大一部分应该归于一位年轻女子和她的丈夫，他们放弃了最轻松的追求，并可能将其分散在琐碎的事情上——这些人似乎处于非凡的天意之路之外？布尔斯特罗德事先从未对自己说过，“女儿不会被发现”——尽管如此，当那一刻到来时，他还是隐藏了她的存在；当其他时刻到来时，他安慰母亲，安慰她，因为这个不幸的年轻女子可能已经不复存在了。

There were hours in which Bulstrode felt that his action was unrighteous; but how could he go back? He had mental exercises, called himself nought laid hold on redemption, and went on in his course of instrumentality. And after five years Death again came to widen his path, by taking away his wife. He did gradually withdraw his capital, but he did not make the sacrifices requisite to put an end to the business, which was carried on for thirteen years afterwards before it finally collapsed. Meanwhile Nicholas Bulstrode had used his hundred thousand discreetly, and was become provincially, solidly important—a banker, a Churchman, a public benefactor; also a sleeping partner in trading concerns, in which his ability was directed to economy in the raw material, as in the case of the dyes which rotted Mr. Vincy’s silk. And now, when this respectability had lasted undisturbed for nearly thirty years— when all that preceded it had long lain benumbed in the consciousness— that past had risen and immersed his thought as if with the terrible irruption of a new sense overburthening the feeble being.
有几个小时，布尔斯特罗德觉得自己的行为是不正义的。但他怎么能回去呢？他进行了精神锻炼，称自己没有放弃救赎，并继续他的工具性道路。五年后，死神再次降临，夺走了他的妻子，拓宽了他的道路。他确实逐渐撤回了资本，但他并没有做出必要的牺牲来结束这家企业，该企业在后来持续了十三年才最终崩溃。与此同时，尼古拉斯·布尔斯特罗德（Nicholas Bulstrode）谨慎地使用了他的十万美元，并成为了省内的重要人物——银行家、牧师、公共捐助者；他也是贸易公司的沉睡伙伴，他的能力主要集中在原材料的节约上，就像腐烂文西先生的丝绸的染料一样。而现在，当这种尊严不受干扰地持续了近三十年时——当它之前的一切早已麻木地埋藏在意识中时——过去的一切已经升起并沉浸在他的思想中，仿佛一种新的感觉可怕地侵入了这个虚弱的存在。

Meanwhile, in his conversation with Raffles, he had learned something momentous, something which entered actively into the struggle of his longings and terrors. There, he thought, lay an opening towards spiritual, perhaps towards material rescue.
与此同时，在与莱佛士的谈话中，他学到了一些重要的东西，这些东西积极地融入了他的渴望和恐惧的斗争中。他认为，那里存在着通往精神救援、也许是物质救援的大门。

The spiritual kind of rescue was a genuine need with him. There may be coarse hypocrites, who consciously affect beliefs and emotions for the sake of gulling the world, but Bulstrode was not one of them. He was simply a man whose desires had been stronger than his theoretic beliefs, and who had gradually explained the gratification of his desires into satisfactory agreement with those beliefs. If this be hypocrisy, it is a process which shows itself occasionally in us all, to whatever confession we belong, and whether we believe in the future perfection of our race or in the nearest date fixed for the end of the world; whether we regard the earth as a putrefying nidus for a saved remnant, including ourselves, or have a passionate belief in the solidarity of mankind.
对他来说，精神上的拯救是真正的需要。也许存在粗俗的伪君子，他们为了欺骗世界而有意识地影响信仰和情感，但布尔斯特罗德不是其中之一。他只是一个欲望比他的理论信仰更强烈的人，并且他逐渐解释了他的欲望的满足与这些信仰的令人满意的一致。如果这是虚伪的话，那么这个过程就会偶尔在我们所有人身上显现出来，无论我们属于什么信仰，无论我们是否相信我们种族的未来完美，或者是否相信世界末日的最近确定日期；我们是否将地球视为包括我们自己在内的幸存者的腐败巢穴，或者对人类的团结抱有热情的信念。

The service he could do to the cause of religion had been through life the ground he alleged to himself for his choice of action: it had been the motive which he had poured out in his prayers. Who would use money and position better than he meant to use them? Who could surpass him in self-abhorrence and exaltation of God’s cause? And to Mr. Bulstrode God’s cause was something distinct from his own rectitude of conduct: it enforced a discrimination of God’s enemies, who were to be used merely as instruments, and whom it would be as well if possible to keep out of money and consequent influence. Also, profitable investments in trades where the power of the prince of this world showed its most active devices, became sanctified by a right application of the profits in the hands of God’s servant.
他一生为宗教事业所做的贡献是他为自己选择的行动提供的理由：这也是他在祈祷中倾诉的动机。谁会比他本意更好地使用金钱和地位呢？在自我厌恶和高举上帝圣工方面，谁能超越他呢？对布尔斯特罗德先生来说，上帝的事业与他自己的正直行为截然不同：它加强了对上帝敌人的歧视，他们只能被用作工具，如果可能的话，最好不要让他们受到金钱和随之而来的损失。影响。此外，在这个世界的君王的权力发挥其最积极手段的行业中的有利可图的投资，通过正确运用上帝仆人手中的利润而变得神圣化。

This implicit reasoning is essentially no more peculiar to evangelical belief than the use of wide phrases for narrow motives is peculiar to Englishmen. There is no general doctrine which is not capable of eating out our morality if unchecked by the deep-seated habit of direct fellow-feeling with individual fellow-men.
这种隐含的推理本质上并不是福音派信仰所特有的，就像英国人特有的为狭隘动机使用宽泛的短语一样。如果不受到与个别同胞的直接同情的根深蒂固的习惯的约束，任何一般性的教义都能够侵蚀我们的道德。

But a man who believes in something else than his own greed, has necessarily a conscience or standard to which he more or less adapts himself. Bulstrode’s standard had been his serviceableness to God’s cause: ‘I am sinful and nought—a vessel to be consecrated by use—but use me!’—had been the mould into which he had constrained his immense need of being something important and predominating. And now had come a moment in which that mould seemed in danger of being broken and utterly cast away.
但是，一个人如果相信自己的贪婪之外的其他东西，那么他必然有自己或多或少适应的良心或标准。布尔斯特罗德的标准是他对上帝事业的服务：“我是有罪的，一无是处——一个可以通过使用而神圣化的器皿——但是使用我！”——这一直是他将自己成为重要和主导的巨大需要限制在其中的模子。现在，这个模式似乎面临着被打破和彻底抛弃的危险。

What if the acts he had reconciled himself to because they made him a stronger instrument of the divine glory, were to become the pretext of the scoffer, and a darkening of that glory? If this were to be the ruling of Providence, he was cast out from the temple as one who had brought unclean offerings.
如果他所甘心接受的行为，因为这些行为使他成为神圣荣耀的更强大的工具，那么，如果这些行为成为嘲笑者的借口，并使那荣耀变得黯淡呢？如果这是上天的裁决，他就会因为带来了不洁的祭品而被逐出圣殿。

He had long poured out utterances of repentance. But today a repentance had come which was of a bitterer flavor, and a threatening Providence urged him to a kind of propitiation which was not simply a doctrinal transaction. The divine tribunal had changed its aspect for him; self-prostration was no longer enough, and he must bring restitution in his hand. It was really before his God that Bulstrode was about to attempt such restitution as seemed possible: a great dread had seized his susceptible frame, and the scorching approach of shame wrought in him a new spiritual need. Night and day, while the resurgent threatening past was making a conscience within him, he was thinking by what means he could recover peace and trust— by what sacrifice he could stay the rod. His belief in these moments of dread was, that if he spontaneously did something right, God would save him from the consequences of wrong-doing. For religion can only change when the emotions which fill it are changed; and the religion of personal fear remains nearly at the level of the savage.
他早已吐露悔改之言。但今天他的悔改已经到来，带着更苦涩的味道，威胁性的天意催促他采取一种挽回祭，而这不仅仅是教义上的交易。神圣法庭对他来说已经改变了面貌。自我跪拜已经不够了，他必须将赔偿握在手中。布尔斯特罗德实际上是在他的上帝面前尝试这种看似可能的恢复：一种巨大的恐惧占据了他脆弱的身体，而灼热的羞耻感在他体内产生了一种新的精神需求。日日夜夜，当那些卷土重来、充满威胁的过去在他内心深处产生良知时，他却在思考如何才能恢复平静和信任——通过什么牺牲，他才能继续坚持下去。在这些恐惧的时刻，他相信，如果他自发地做了正确的事情，上帝就会把他从错误行为的后果中拯救出来。因为只有当宗教的情感改变时，宗教才能改变。个人恐惧的宗教几乎仍停留在野蛮人的水平。

He had seen Raffles actually going away on the Brassing coach, and this was a temporary relief; it removed the pressure of an immediate dread, but did not put an end to the spiritual conflict and the need to win protection. At last he came to a difficult resolve, and wrote a letter to Will Ladislaw, begging him to be at the Shrubs that evening for a private interview at nine o’clock. Will had felt no particular surprise at the request, and connected it with some new notions about the ‘Pioneer;’ but when he was shown into Mr. Bulstrode’s private room, he was struck with the painfully worn look on the banker’s face, and was going to say, ‘Are you ill?’ when, checking himself in that abruptness, he only inquired after Mrs. Bulstrode, and her satisfaction with the picture bought for her.
他亲眼目睹莱佛士乘坐布拉辛马车离开，这让他暂时松了口气。它消除了直接恐惧的压力，但并没有结束精神冲突和赢得保护的需要。最后他做出了一个艰难的决定，写了一封信给威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫，恳求他当晚九点钟到灌木丛进行一次私人采访。威尔对这个要求并没有感到特别惊讶，并把它与一些关于“先锋”的新概念联系起来；但是当他被带进布尔斯特罗德先生的私人房间时，他被银行家脸上痛苦而憔悴的表情所震惊，并感到震惊。当他正要问“你病了吗？”时，他检查了一下自己的唐突态度，只询问了布尔斯特罗德夫人，她对为她买的这幅画很满意。

‘Thank you, she is quite satisfied; she has gone out with her daughters this evening. I begged you to come, Mr. Ladislaw, because I have a communication of a very private—indeed, I will say, of a sacredly confidential nature, which I desire to make to you. Nothing, I dare say, has been farther from your thoughts than that there had been important ties in the past which could connect your history with mine.’
‘谢谢，她已经很满意了；今天晚上她和她的女儿们出去了。拉迪斯瓦夫先生，我恳求您前来，因为我有一个非常私人的交流——实际上，我会说，具有神圣机密的性质，我希望与您进行交流。我敢说，没有什么比过去有重要的联系可以将你的历史与我的历史联系起来更离你的想法了。

Will felt something like an electric shock. He was already in a state of keen sensitiveness and hardly allayed agitation on the subject of ties in the past, and his presentiments were not agreeable. It seemed like the fluctuations of a dream—as if the action begun by that loud bloated stranger were being carried on by this pale-eyed sickly looking piece of respectability, whose subdued tone and glib formality of speech were at this moment almost as repulsive to him as their remembered contrast. He answered, with a marked change of color—
威尔有一种触电般的感觉。过去他对关系问题就已经处于一种高度敏感的状态，难以平息激动的情绪，而且他的预感并不令人愉快。仿佛是一场梦的波动——就好像那个大声说话、臃肿的陌生人开始的行动，正在由这个苍白眼睛、病态的体面人士继续进行，他柔和的语气和油嘴滑舌的言辞此刻几乎和其他人一样令人反感。他是他们记忆中的对比。他脸色明显变了，回答道——

‘No, indeed, nothing.’
“不，确实，什么也没有。”

‘You see before you, Mr. Ladislaw, a man who is deeply stricken. But for the urgency of conscience and the knowledge that I am before the bar of One who seeth not as man seeth, I should be under no compulsion to make the disclosure which has been my object in asking you to come here to-night. So far as human laws go, you have no claim on me whatever.’
“拉迪斯瓦夫先生，你看到在你面前的是一个深受打击的人。如果不是出于良心的紧迫性，并且知道我站在一位与人不同的视角的审判台前，我就不会被迫透露我邀请你们今晚来这里的目的。就人类法律而言，你对我没有任何要求。

Will was even more uncomfortable than wondering. Mr. Bulstrode had paused, leaning his head on his hand, and looking at the floor. But he now fixed his examining glance on Will and said—
威尔比疑惑更不舒服。布尔斯特罗德先生停了下来，用手托着头，看着地板。但他现在将审视的目光集中在威尔身上，说道——

‘I am told that your mother’s name was Sarah Dunkirk, and that she ran away from her friends to go on the stage. Also, that your father was at one time much emaciated by illness. May I ask if you can confirm these statements?’
“我听说你母亲的名字叫莎拉·敦刻尔克，她从朋友那里逃出来登上舞台。另外，你的父亲曾经因病而变得非常憔悴。请问你能否证实这些说法？

‘Yes, they are all true,’ said Will, struck with the order in which an inquiry had come, that might have been expected to be preliminary to the banker’s previous hints. But Mr. Bulstrode had to-night followed the order of his emotions; he entertained no doubt that the opportunity for restitution had come, and he had an overpowering impulse towards the penitential expression by which he was deprecating chastisement.
“是的，它们都是真的，”威尔说，对调查的顺序感到震惊，这可能是银行家之前暗示的初步结果。但布尔斯特罗德先生今晚还是顺从了他的情绪。他毫不怀疑恢复原状的机会已经到来，他对谴责惩罚的忏悔表情有一种压倒性的冲动。

‘Do you know any particulars of your mother’s family?’ he continued.
“你知道你母亲家庭的具体情况吗？”他继续说道。

‘No; she never liked to speak of them. She was a very generous, honorable woman,’ said Will, almost angrily.
'不;她从来不喜欢谈论他们。她是一位非常慷慨、值得尊敬的女人。”威尔几乎生气地说。

‘I do not wish to allege anything against her. Did she never mention her mother to you at all?’
“我不想对她提出任何指控。她从来没有向你提起过她的母亲吗？

‘I have heard her say that she thought her mother did not know the reason of her running away. She said ‘poor mother’ in a pitying tone.’
“我听她说，她以为她母亲不知道她逃跑的原因。她用怜悯的语气说“可怜的妈妈”。

‘That mother became my wife,’ said Bulstrode, and then paused a moment before he added, ‘you have a claim on me, Mr. Ladislaw: as I said before, not a legal claim, but one which my conscience recognizes. I was enriched by that marriage—a result which would probably not have taken place—certainly not to the same extent—if your grandmother could have discovered her daughter. That daughter, I gather, is no longer living!’
“那个母亲成了我的妻子，”布尔斯特罗德说，然后停顿了一下，然后补充道，“拉迪斯瓦先生，你对我有权利：正如我之前所说，不是法律上的权利，而是我的良心承认的权利。”我因那次婚姻而变得丰富——如果你的祖母能够发现她的女儿，这种结果可能不会发生——当然不会达到同样的程度。我猜那个女儿已经不在人世了！”

‘No,’ said Will, feeling suspicion and repugnance rising so strongly within him, that without quite knowing what he did, he took his hat from the floor and stood up. The impulse within him was to reject the disclosed connection.
“不，”威尔说，他感到怀疑和反感如此强烈地升起，以至于他不太清楚自己做了什么，他从地板上拿起帽子站了起来。他内心的冲动是拒绝公开的联系。

‘Pray be seated, Mr. Ladislaw,’ said Bulstrode, anxiously. ‘Doubtless you are startled by the suddenness of this discovery. But I entreat your patience with one who is already bowed down by inward trial.’
“请坐下，拉迪斯瓦夫先生，”布尔斯特罗德焦急地说。 “毫无疑问，你对这个突然的发现感到震惊。但我恳求你对一个已经因内心的考验而屈服的人保持耐心。

Will reseated himself, feeling some pity which was half contempt for this voluntary self-abasement of an elderly man.
威尔重新坐了下来，对一位老人的这种自愿自卑感到有些怜悯，其中一半是蔑视。

‘It is my wish, Mr. Ladislaw, to make amends for the deprivation which befell your mother. I know that you are without fortune, and I wish to supply you adequately from a store which would have probably already been yours had your grandmother been certain of your mother’s existence and been able to find her.’
“拉迪斯瓦夫先生，我的愿望是弥补你母亲遭受的损失。我知道你没有财产，我希望从一家商店为你提供充足的物资，如果你的祖母确信你母亲的存在并能够找到她的话，这家商店可能已经属于你了。

Mr. Bulstrode paused. He felt that he was performing a striking piece of scrupulosity in the judgment of his auditor, and a penitential act in the eyes of God. He had no clew to the state of Will Ladislaw’s mind, smarting as it was from the clear hints of Raffles, and with its natural quickness in construction stimulated by the expectation of discoveries which he would have been glad to conjure back into darkness. Will made no answer for several moments, till Mr. Bulstrode, who at the end of his speech had cast his eyes on the floor, now raised them with an examining glance, which Will met fully, saying—
布尔斯特罗德先生停了下来。他觉得自己在审计员的判断中表现得非常谨慎，在上帝眼中也是一种悔罪之举。他不知道威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的思想状态，莱佛士的清晰暗示让他感到痛苦，而他对发现的期待刺激了他自然而然的快速构建，他很乐意将这些发现召唤回黑暗。威尔有好一会儿没有回答，直到布尔斯特罗德先生在演讲结束时把目光投向地板，现在抬起眼睛审视地看着威尔，他说——

‘I suppose you did know of my mother’s existence, and knew where she might have been found.’
“我想你确实知道我母亲的存在，并且知道她可能在哪里被发现。”

Bulstrode shrank—there was a visible quivering in his face and hands. He was totally unprepared to have his advances met in this way, or to find himself urged into more revelation than he had beforehand set down as needful. But at that moment he dared not tell a lie, and he felt suddenly uncertain of his ground which he had trodden with some confidence before.
布尔斯特罗德瑟缩了一下——他的脸和手明显在颤抖。他完全没有准备好自己的示好会以这种方式得到满足，或者发现自己被迫接受比他事先设定的需要更多的启示。但此刻他不敢撒谎，他突然对自己曾经充满信心地踏过的土地感到不确定。

‘I will not deny that you conjecture rightly,’ he answered, with a faltering in his tone. ‘And I wish to make atonement to you as the one still remaining who has suffered a loss through me. You enter, I trust, into my purpose, Mr. Ladislaw, which has a reference to higher than merely human claims, and as I have already said, is entirely independent of any legal compulsion. I am ready to narrow my own resources and the prospects of my family by binding myself to allow you five hundred pounds yearly during my life, and to leave you a proportional capital at my death—nay, to do still more, if more should be definitely necessary to any laudable project on your part.’ Mr. Bulstrode had gone on to particulars in the expectation that these would work strongly on Ladislaw, and merge other feelings in grateful acceptance.
“我不会否认你的推测是正确的，”他回答道，语气有些结结巴巴。 ‘我希望向你这个因我而遭受损失的人做出赎罪。我相信，你已经进入了我的目的，拉迪斯瓦夫先生，它所涉及的不仅仅是人类的要求，而且正如我已经说过的，完全独立于任何法律强制。我准备缩小我自己的资源和我家庭的前景，约束自己在我有生之年每年给你五百英镑，并在我死后给你留下一定比例的资本——不，做更多，如果应该更多的话。 “这对于你的任何值得称赞的项目来说绝对是必要的。”布尔斯特罗德先生继续详细说明，期望这些会对拉迪斯瓦夫产生强烈的作用，并在感激的接受中融合其他感情。

But Will was looking as stubborn as possible, with his lip pouting and his fingers in his side-pockets. He was not in the least touched, and said firmly,—
但威尔看上去非常固执，嘴唇撅起，手指插在侧袋里。他丝毫不为所动，坚定地说：

‘Before I make any reply to your proposition, Mr. Bulstrode, I must beg you to answer a question or two. Were you connected with the business by which that fortune you speak of was originally made?’
“布尔斯特罗德先生，在我对你的提议作出任何答复之前，我必须请求你回答一两个问题。你和你所说的那笔财富最初是靠什么发源的生意有联系吗？

Mr. Bulstrode’s thought was, ‘Raffles has told him.’ How could he refuse to answer when he had volunteered what drew forth the question? He answered, ‘Yes.’
布尔斯特罗德先生的想法是，“莱佛士已经告诉他了。”当他自愿说出提出这个问题的原因时，他怎么能拒绝回答呢？他回答说：“是的。”

‘And was that business—or was it not—a thoroughly dishonorable one— nay, one that, if its nature had been made public, might have ranked those concerned in it with thieves and convicts?’
“这桩生意是不是——或者不是——完全不光彩的一件事——不，如果它的性质被公开，可能会把参与其中的人与小偷和罪犯归为一类？”

Will’s tone had a cutting bitterness: he was moved to put his question as nakedly as he could.
威尔的语气带着尖锐的苦涩：他被感动得尽可能赤裸裸地提出他的问题。

Bulstrode reddened with irrepressible anger. He had been prepared for a scene of self-abasement, but his intense pride and his habit of supremacy overpowered penitence, and even dread, when this young man, whom he had meant to benefit, turned on him with the air of a judge.
布尔斯特罗德因无法抑制的愤怒而涨红了脸。他已经做好了自我贬低的准备，但当这个他本想受益的年轻人以法官的姿态攻击他时，他强烈的骄傲和至高无上的习惯压倒了悔恨，甚至恐惧。

‘The business was established before I became connected with it, sir; nor is it for you to institute an inquiry of that kind,’ he answered, not raising his voice, but speaking with quick defiantness.
“先生，在我参与其中之前，这家公司就已经成立了；你也不该进行此类调查。”他回答道，声音并没有提高，而是语气中充满了挑衅。

‘Yes, it is,’ said Will, starting up again with his hat in his hand. ‘It is eminently mine to ask such questions, when I have to decide whether I will have transactions with you and accept your money. My unblemished honor is important to me. It is important to me to have no stain on my birth and connections. And now I find there is a stain which I can’t help. My mother felt it, and tried to keep as clear of it as she could, and so will I. You shall keep your ill-gotten money. If I had any fortune of my own, I would willingly pay it to any one who could disprove what you have told me. What I have to thank you for is that you kept the money till now, when I can refuse it. It ought to lie with a man’s self that he is a gentleman. Good-night, sir.’
“是的，是的，”威尔说着，手里拿着帽子又站了起来。 “当我必须决定是否与你进行交易并接受你的钱时，显然是我提出这样的问题。我无瑕疵的荣誉对我来说很重要。对我来说，重要的是不要让我的出身和人际关系受到玷污。现在我发现有一个污点，我无能为力。我母亲感觉到了这一点，并尽可能地避开它，我也是如此。你应该保留你的不义之财。如果我有自己的财产，我愿意把它付给任何能够反驳你告诉我的话的人。我要感谢的是，你把钱留到现在，我可以拒绝。一个人应该有自己的绅士风度。晚安先生。'

Bulstrode was going to speak, but Will, with determined quickness, was out of the room in an instant, and in another the hall-door had closed behind him. He was too strongly possessed with passionate rebellion against this inherited blot which had been thrust on his knowledge to reflect at present whether he had not been too hard on Bulstrode—too arrogantly merciless towards a man of sixty, who was making efforts at retrieval when time had rendered them vain.
布尔斯特罗德正要说话，但威尔以坚决的速度，立刻走出了房间，大厅的门在他身后关上了。他对这种遗传性的污点抱有太强烈的反叛情绪，这种污点强加在他的知识上，以至于现在无法反思他是否对布尔斯特罗德太严厉了——对一个六十岁的人太傲慢无情了，他当时正在努力恢复。让他们徒劳无功。

No third person listening could have thoroughly understood the impetuosity of Will’s repulse or the bitterness of his words. No one but himself then knew how everything connected with the sentiment of his own dignity had an immediate bearing for him on his relation to Dorothea and to Mr. Casaubon’s treatment of him. And in the rush of impulses by which he flung back that offer of Bulstrode’s there was mingled the sense that it would have been impossible for him ever to tell Dorothea that he had accepted it.
没有第三个人能够彻底理解威尔的拒绝的冲动或他话语中的苦涩。当时，除了他自己之外，没有人知道，与他自己的尊严感有关的一切，如何对他与多萝西娅的关系以及卡苏邦先生对待他的方式产生直接影响。他一时冲动地拒绝了布尔斯特罗德的提议，心里夹杂着这样一种感觉：他不可能告诉多萝西娅他已经接受了。

As for Bulstrode—when Will was gone he suffered a violent reaction, and wept like a woman. It was the first time he had encountered an open expression of scorn from any man higher than Raffles; and with that scorn hurrying like venom through his system, there was no sensibility left to consolations. Rut the relief of weeping had to be checked. His wife and daughters soon came home from hearing the address of an Oriental missionary, and were full of regret that papa had not heard, in the first instance, the interesting things which they tried to repeat to him.
至于布尔斯特罗德——威尔离开后，他出现了剧烈的反应，像个女人一样哭泣。这是他第一次遇到比莱佛士地位更高的人公开表示蔑视的表情。那种蔑视像毒液一样涌入他的全身，他再也没有任何安慰的余地了。但必须检查哭泣的缓解情况。他的妻子和女儿们听完一位东方传教士的演讲后很快就回家了，他们非常遗憾爸爸没有首先听到她们试图向他复述的有趣的事情。

Perhaps, through all other hidden thoughts, the one that breathed most comfort was, that Will Ladislaw at least was not likely to publish what had taken place that evening.
也许，在所有其他隐藏的想法中，最让人感到安慰的是，威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫至少不太可能公布那天晚上发生的事情。

CHAPTER LXII
第六十二章

‘He was a squyer of lowe degre,
“他是一个低级的土豪，

That loved the king’s daughter of Hungrie.
那爱着亨格里国王的女儿。

—Old Romance.
——古老的浪漫。

Will Ladislaw’s mind was now wholly bent on seeing Dorothea again, and forthwith quitting Middlemarch. The morning after his agitating scene with Bulstrode he wrote a brief letter to her, saying that various causes had detained him in the neighborhood longer than he had expected, and asking her permission to call again at Lowick at some hour which she would mention on the earliest possible day, he being anxious to depart, but unwilling to do so until she had granted him an interview. He left the letter at the office, ordering the messenger to carry it to Lowick Manor, and wait for an answer.
威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫现在一心只想再次见到多萝西娅，并立即离开米德尔马契。与布尔斯特罗德发生激动人心的一幕后的第二天早上，他给她写了一封简短的信，说由于各种原因，他在附近滞留的时间比他预期的要长，并请求她允许在某个时间再次拜访洛威克，她会在电话上提到这一点。最早的一天，他急于离开，但在她接受采访之前他不愿意这样做。他把信留在了办公室，吩咐信使将它带到洛威克庄园，等待答复。

Ladislaw felt the awkwardness of asking for more last words. His former farewell had been made in the hearing of Sir James Chettam, and had been announced as final even to the butler. It is certainly trying to a man’s dignity to reappear when he is not expected to do so: a first farewell has pathos in it, but to come back for a second lends an opening to comedy, and it was possible even that there might be bitter sneers afloat about Will’s motives for lingering. Still it was on the whole more satisfactory to his feeling to take the directest means of seeing Dorothea, than to use any device which might give an air of chance to a meeting of which he wished her to understand that it was what he earnestly sought. When he had parted from her before, he had been in ignorance of facts which gave a new aspect to the relation between them, and made a more absolute severance than he had then believed in. He knew nothing of Dorothea’s private fortune, and being little used to reflect on such matters, took it for granted that according to Mr. Casaubon’s arrangement marriage to him, Will Ladislaw, would mean that she consented to be penniless. That was not what he could wish for even in his secret heart, or even if she had been ready to meet such hard contrast for his sake. And then, too, there was the fresh smart of that disclosure about his mother’s family, which if known would be an added reason why Dorothea’s friends should look down upon him as utterly below her. The secret hope that after some years he might come back with the sense that he had at least a personal value equal to her wealth, seemed now the dreamy continuation of a dream. This change would surely justify him in asking Dorothea to receive him once more.
拉迪斯瓦夫觉得要求更多的遗言很尴尬。他之前的告别是在詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士的听证会上进行的，甚至连管家也宣布了他的最后告别。当一个人不希望他再次出现时，这无疑是在试图维护他的尊严：第一次告别充满悲伤，但第二次回来却为喜剧提供了一个开场，甚至有可能是痛苦的。人们对威尔徘徊的动机冷笑不已。不过，总的来说，他感觉采取最直接的方式去见多萝西娅，比使用任何可能给会面带来机会的手段更令人满意，他希望她明白，这是他真诚寻求的。当他以前与她分手时，他对事实一无所知，这些事实使他们之间的关系有了新的面貌，并做出了比他当时相信的更绝对的分手。他对多萝西娅的私人财产一无所知，而且年纪还小。过去常常思考这些问题，理所当然地认为，根据卡苏邦先生的安排，与他威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫结婚就意味着她同意身无分文。即使在他内心深处，即使她为了他已经准备好面对如此强烈的对比，这也不是他所希望的。此外，关于他母亲家庭的披露也令人耳目一新，如果这件事被人知道，那将是多萝西娅的朋友们瞧不起他的另一个原因，因为他完全低于她。他暗自希望，几年后，他回来时会感到自己至少拥有与她的财富相等的个人价值，现在看来，这似乎是一个梦想的梦幻延续。这一变化肯定会让他有理由要求多萝西娅再次接待他。

But Dorothea on that morning was not at home to receive Will’s note. In consequence of a letter from her uncle announcing his intention to be at home in a week, she had driven first to Freshitt to carry the news, meaning to go on to the Grange to deliver some orders with which her uncle had intrusted her—thinking, as he said, ‘a little mental occupation of this sort good for a widow.’
但那天早上多萝西娅不在家，没有收到威尔的字条。由于她叔叔写了一封信，宣布他打算在一周内回家，她先开车去弗雷希特传达这个消息，打算继续去田庄交付一些她叔叔托付给她的订单——她想正如他所说，“这种精神上的小事对寡妇来说是有好处的。”

If Will Ladislaw could have overheard some of the talk at Freshitt that morning, he would have felt all his suppositions confirmed as to the readiness of certain people to sneer at his lingering in the neighborhood. Sir James, indeed, though much relieved concerning Dorothea, had been on the watch to learn Ladislaw’s movements, and had an instructed informant in Mr. Standish, who was necessarily in his confidence on this matter. That Ladislaw had stayed in Middlemarch nearly two months after he had declared that he was going immediately, was a fact to embitter Sir James’s suspicions, or at least to justify his aversion to a ‘young fellow’ whom he represented to himself as slight, volatile, and likely enough to show such recklessness as naturally went along with a position unriveted by family ties or a strict profession. But he had just heard something from Standish which, while it justified these surmises about Will, offered a means of nullifying all danger with regard to Dorothea.
如果威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫那天早上能无意中听到弗雷希特的一些谈话，他就会觉得他所有的假设都得到了证实，即某些人准备嘲笑他在附近的逗留。事实上，詹姆斯爵士虽然对多萝西娅感到放心，但一直在监视着拉迪斯瓦夫的动向，并且有一位受过训练的斯坦迪什先生作为线人，他在这件事上必然对他有信心。拉迪斯瓦夫在宣布立即前往米德尔马契后，已经在米德尔马契待了近两个月，这一事实加剧了詹姆斯爵士的怀疑，或者至少证明了他对一个“年轻人”的厌恶是合理的，他自认为这个“年轻人”是个身材矮小、反复无常的人。 ，并且很可能表现出这种鲁莽，自然而然地伴随着一个不受家庭关系或严格职业束缚的职位。但他刚刚从斯坦迪什那里听到了一些话，虽然它证实了这些关于威尔的猜测，但提供了一种消除与多萝西娅有关的所有危险的方法。

Unwonted circumstances may make us all rather unlike ourselves: there are conditions under which the most majestic person is obliged to sneeze, and our emotions are liable to be acted on in the same incongruous manner. Good Sir James was this morning so far unlike himself that he was irritably anxious to say something to Dorothea on a subject which he usually avoided as if it had been a matter of shame to them both. He could not use Celia as a medium, because he did not choose that she should know the kind of gossip he had in his mind; and before Dorothea happened to arrive he had been trying to imagine how, with his shyness and unready tongue, he could ever manage to introduce his communication. Her unexpected presence brought him to utter hopelessness in his own power of saying anything unpleasant; but desperation suggested a resource; he sent the groom on an unsaddled horse across the park with a pencilled note to Mrs. Cadwallader, who already knew the gossip, and would think it no compromise of herself to repeat it as often as required.
不寻常的情况可能会让我们变得与自己不同：在某些情况下，最威严的人也不得不打喷嚏，而我们的情绪也容易以同样不协调的方式受到影响。好心的詹姆斯爵士今天早上的表现实在是太不像他自己了，以至于他焦躁不安地想就一个他通常回避的话题向多萝西娅说些什么，就好像这对他们俩来说都是一件耻辱的事情一样。他不能用西莉亚作为媒介，因为他没有选择让她知道他心里的那些八卦；在多萝西娅碰巧到达之前，他一直在努力想象，以他的害羞和尚未准备好的舌头，他如何能够设法介绍他的交流。她的意外出现使他对自己说出不愉快的话感到彻底绝望。但绝望之下却提出了一种资源；他让新郎骑着一匹没有鞍的马穿过公园，并用铅笔写了一张纸条给卡德瓦拉德夫人，她已经知道了这些八卦，并且认为按照要求重复一遍这件事对她自己来说并没有妥协。

Dorothea was detained on the good pretext that Mr. Garth, whom she wanted to see, was expected at the hall within the hour, and she was still talking to Caleb on the gravel when Sir James, on the watch for the rector’s wife, saw her coming and met her with the needful hints.
多萝西娅被拘留的借口是，她想见的加斯先生将在一个小时内到达大厅，当詹姆斯爵士在看守校长妻子时，她仍在砾石上与凯勒交谈。她来了，并给了她必要的提示。

‘Enough! I understand,’—said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘You shall be innocent. I am such a blackamoor that I cannot smirch myself.’
'足够的！我明白，”——卡德沃拉德夫人说。 ‘你将是无辜的。我是个黑人，不能玷污自己。

‘I don’t mean that it’s of any consequence,’ said Sir James, disliking that Mrs. Cadwallader should understand too much. ‘Only it is desirable that Dorothea should know there are reasons why she should not receive him again; and I really can’t say so to her. It will come lightly from you.’
“我的意思并不是说这有什么后果，”詹姆斯爵士说道，他不喜欢卡德沃拉德夫人了解得太多。 “唯一希望多萝西娅知道她不应该再次接待他是有原因的；我真的不能对她这么说。它会轻而易举地从你那里来。

It came very lightly indeed. When Dorothea quitted Caleb and turned to meet them, it appeared that Mrs. Cadwallader had stepped across the park by the merest chance in the world, just to chat with Celia in a matronly way about the baby. And so Mr. Brooke was coming back? Delightful!—coming back, it was to be hoped, quite cured of Parliamentary fever and pioneering. Apropos of the ‘Pioneer’—somebody had prophesied that it would soon be like a dying dolphin, and turn all colors for want of knowing how to help itself, because Mr. Brooke’s protege, the brilliant young Ladislaw, was gone or going. Had Sir James heard that?
确实来得很轻松。当多萝西娅离开凯莱布转身迎接他们时，卡德瓦拉德夫人似乎千载难逢地穿过公园，只是为了以主妇的方式与西莉亚谈论婴儿的事情。那么布鲁克先生要回来了？令人高兴！——人们希望，回来后议会热潮和开拓精神已经痊愈了。至于“先锋号”——有人预言它很快就会像一只垂死的海豚一样，因为不知道如何自救而变色，因为布鲁克先生的门生，才华横溢的年轻拉迪斯瓦夫已经离开或离开了。詹姆斯爵士听到了吗？

The three were walking along the gravel slowly, and Sir James, turning aside to whip a shrub, said he had heard something of that sort.
三个人沿着碎石路慢慢地走着，詹姆斯爵士转过身来鞭打一棵灌木，说他听到了类似的声音。

‘All false!’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘He is not gone, or going, apparently; the ‘Pioneer’ keeps its color, and Mr. Orlando Ladislaw is making a sad dark-blue scandal by warbling continually with your Mr. Lydgate’s wife, who they tell me is as pretty as pretty can be. It seems nobody ever goes into the house without finding this young gentleman lying on the rug or warbling at the piano. But the people in manufacturing towns are always disreputable.’
“全都是假的！”卡德沃拉德夫人说。 “显然，他并没有离开，也没有离开； “先锋”保持了它的颜色，而奥兰多·拉迪斯劳先生不断地与你的利德盖特先生的妻子叽叽喳喳地唱着悲伤的深蓝色丑闻，他们告诉我她非常漂亮。似乎每个人走进这所房子都会发现这位年轻的绅士躺在地毯上或在钢琴前弹奏。但制造业城镇的人总是声名狼藉。”

‘You began by saying that one report was false, Mrs. Cadwallader, and I believe this is false too,’ said Dorothea, with indignant energy; ‘at least, I feel sure it is a misrepresentation. I will not hear any evil spoken of Mr. Ladislaw; he has already suffered too much injustice.’
“你一开始就说有一份报告是假的，卡德沃拉德夫人，我相信这也是假的，”多萝西娅愤怒地说。 “至少，我确信这是一种误传。我不会听到任何关于拉迪斯瓦夫先生的坏话；他已经遭受了太多的不公正。

Dorothea when thoroughly moved cared little what any one thought of her feelings; and even if she had been able to reflect, she would have held it petty to keep silence at injurious words about Will from fear of being herself misunderstood. Her face was flushed and her lip trembled.
当多萝西娅彻底被感动时，她并不关心别人如何看待她的感受。即使她能够反思，她也会认为对威尔的中伤性言论保持沉默是微不足道的，因为她害怕自己被误解。她的脸涨得通红，嘴唇颤抖着。

Sir James, glancing at her, repented of his stratagem; but Mrs. Cadwallader, equal to all occasions, spread the palms of her hands outward and said—‘Heaven grant it, my dear!—I mean that all bad tales about anybody may be false. But it is a pity that young Lydgate should have married one of these Middlemarch girls. Considering he’s a son of somebody, he might have got a woman with good blood in her veins, and not too young, who would have put up with his profession. There’s Clara Harfager, for instance, whose friends don’t know what to do with her; and she has a portion. Then we might have had her among us. However!—it’s no use being wise for other people. Where is Celia? Pray let us go in.’
詹姆斯爵士看了她一眼，后悔自己的计谋。但卡德瓦拉德夫人在任何场合都一样，摊开手掌说道：“老天保佑，亲爱的！”我的意思是，所有关于任何人的坏故事都可能是假的。但遗憾的是，年轻的利德盖特本应该娶其中一位米德尔马契女孩为妻。考虑到他是某人的儿子，他可能有一个血管里流淌着良好血液的女人，而且不太年轻，她会忍受他的职业。例如，克拉拉·哈法格 (Clara Harfager) 的朋友们不知道该拿她怎么办；她也有一份。那么我们可能就会有她在我们中间。然而！——聪明对其他人来说是没有用的。西莉亚在哪里？请让我们进去吧。

‘I am going on immediately to Tipton,’ said Dorothea, rather haughtily. ‘Good-by.’
“我马上就去蒂普顿，”多萝西娅相当傲慢地说。 '有效期。'

Sir James could say nothing as he accompanied her to the carriage. He was altogether discontented with the result of a contrivance which had cost him some secret humiliation beforehand.
詹姆斯爵士陪着她走向马车，什么也没说。他对这个计划的结果非常不满意，因为这个计划让他事先蒙受了一些秘密的羞辱。

Dorothea drove along between the berried hedgerows and the shorn corn-fields, not seeing or hearing anything around. The tears came and rolled down her cheeks, but she did not know it. The world, it seemed, was turning ugly and hateful, and there was no place for her trustfulness. ‘It is not true—it is not true!’ was the voice within her that she listened to; but all the while a remembrance to which there had always clung a vague uneasiness would thrust itself on her attention—the remembrance of that day when she had found Will Ladislaw with Mrs. Lydgate, and had heard his voice accompanied by the piano.
多萝西娅开车穿过长满浆果的树篱和修剪过的玉米地，没有看到或听到周围有任何东西。泪水顺着脸颊流下来，但她自己却浑然不觉。世界似乎变得丑陋而充满仇恨，她的信任已无立足之地。 “这不是真的——这不是真的！”这是她内心的声音。但一直以来，一种一直笼罩在模糊不安之中的记忆会突然出现在她的注意力上——那天她找到了威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫和利德盖特太太，并听到了他在钢琴伴奏下的声音。

‘He said he would never do anything that I disapproved—I wish I could have told him that I disapproved of that,’ said poor Dorothea, inwardly, feeling a strange alternation between anger with Will and the passionate defence of him. ‘They all try to blacken him before me; but I will care for no pain, if he is not to blame. I always believed he was good.’—These were her last thoughts before she felt that the carriage was passing under the archway of the lodge-gate at the Grange, when she hurriedly pressed her handkerchief to her face and began to think of her errands. The coachman begged leave to take out the horses for half an hour as there was something wrong with a shoe; and Dorothea, having the sense that she was going to rest, took off her gloves and bonnet, while she was leaning against a statue in the entrance-hall, and talking to the housekeeper. At last she said—
“他说他永远不会做任何我不赞成的事情——我希望我能告诉他我不赞成这样做，”可怜的多萝西娅内心说道，在对威尔的愤怒和对他的热情辩护之间感到一种奇怪的交替。 “他们都想在我面前抹黑他；但如果不是他的错的话，我不会在乎任何痛苦。我一直相信他是个好人。”——这是她感觉到马车驶过农庄小屋门拱门下之前的最后一个念头，她赶紧用手帕捂住脸，开始思考她的差事。 。车夫请求允许半个小时把马运出去，因为马蹄铁出了问题。多萝西娅感觉到自己要休息了，便脱下手套和帽子，靠在门厅的一尊雕像上，与管家交谈。最后她说——

‘I must stay here a little, Mrs. Kell. I will go into the library and write you some memoranda from my uncle’s letter, if you will open the shutters for me.’
“我必须在这里待一会儿，凯尔夫人。如果你愿意为我打开百叶窗的话，我会去图书馆给你写一些我叔叔信中的备忘录。

‘The shutters are open, madam,’ said Mrs. Kell, following Dorothea, who had walked along as she spoke. ‘Mr. Ladislaw is there, looking for something.’
“百叶窗是开着的，女士，”凯尔太太跟在多萝西娅身后说道，她说话时，多萝西娅也在旁边走着。 '先生。拉迪斯瓦夫在那儿，正在寻找什么东西。”

(Will had come to fetch a portfolio of his own sketches which he had missed in the act of packing his movables, and did not choose to leave behind.)
（威尔来取他自己的草图集，他在收拾动产时遗漏了这些草图，因此没有选择留下。）

Dorothea’s heart seemed to turn over as if it had had a blow, but she was not perceptibly checked: in truth, the sense that Will was there was for the moment all-satisfying to her, like the sight of something precious that one has lost. When she reached the door she said to Mrs. Kell—
多萝西娅的心似乎受到了重击，但她并没有明显地受到抑制：事实上，威尔在那儿的感觉让她此刻感到非常满意，就像看到一个人失去的珍贵的东西一样。当她到达门口时，她对凯尔太太说——

‘Go in first, and tell him that I am here.’
“你先进去吧，告诉他我在这里。”

Will had found his portfolio, and had laid it on the table at the far end of the room, to turn over the sketches and please himself by looking at the memorable piece of art which had a relation to nature too mysterious for Dorothea. He was smiling at it still, and shaking the sketches into order with the thought that he might find a letter from her awaiting him at Middlemarch, when Mrs. Kell close to his elbow said—
威尔找到了他的作品集，把它放在房间另一端的桌子上，翻阅草图，欣赏这件令人难忘的艺术品，这件艺术品与自然的关系对多萝西娅来说太神秘了。他仍然微笑着看着它，并把草图整理好，想着他可能会在米德尔马奇找到她的一封信在等他，这时靠近他肘部的凯尔夫人说——

‘Mrs. Casaubon is coming in, sir.’
'太太。卡索邦要进来了，先生。”

Will turned round quickly, and the next moment Dorothea was entering. As Mrs. Kell closed the door behind her they met: each was looking at the other, and consciousness was overflowed by something that suppressed utterance. It was not confusion that kept them silent, for they both felt that parting was near, and there is no shamefacedness in a sad parting.
威尔迅速转过身，下一刻多萝西娅就进来了。当凯尔夫人关上身后的门时，他们相遇了：每个人都看着对方，意识被某种抑制言语的东西所淹没。让他们沉默的并不是困惑，因为他们都觉得离别已近，而悲伤的离别并不羞耻。

She moved automatically towards her uncle’s chair against the writing-table, and Will, after drawing it out a little for her, went a few paces off and stood opposite to her.
她自然而然地走向写字台上叔叔的椅子，威尔为她拉了一点之后，退了几步，站在她对面。

‘Pray sit down,’ said Dorothea, crossing her hands on her lap; ‘I am very glad you were here.’ Will thought that her face looked just as it did when she first shook hands with him in Rome; for her widow’s cap, fixed in her bonnet, had gone off with it, and he could see that she had lately been shedding tears. But the mixture of anger in her agitation had vanished at the sight of him; she had been used, when they were face to face, always to feel confidence and the happy freedom which comes with mutual understanding, and how could other people’s words hinder that effect on a sudden? Let the music which can take possession of our frame and fill the air with joy for us, sound once more—what does it signify that we heard it found fault with in its absence?
“请坐下，”多萝西娅双手交叉放在腿上说道。 “我很高兴你在这里。”威尔认为她的脸看起来就像她第一次在罗马与他握手时一样。因为她固定在帽子上的寡妇帽也随之脱落了，他看得出来她最近一直在流泪。但一看到他，她激动中的愤怒就消失了。她已经习惯了，当他们面对面的时候，总是能够感受到自信和相互理解带来的快乐自由，别人的言语又怎么会突然阻碍这种效果呢？让那可以占据我们的身体、让空气充满欢乐的音乐再次响起——我们听到它在缺席时挑剔它意味着什么？

‘I have sent a letter to Lowick Manor to-day, asking leave to see you,’ said Will, seating himself opposite to her. ‘I am going away immediately, and I could not go without speaking to you again.’
“我今天给洛威克庄园寄了一封信，请假去见你，”威尔坐在她对面说道。 “我马上就要走了，如果不再次和你说话我就不能离开。”

‘I thought we had parted when you came to Lowick many weeks ago— you thought you were going then,’ said Dorothea, her voice trembling a little.
“几周前你来洛威克时，我以为我们已经分手了——那时你以为你要走了，”多萝西娅说，她的声音有点颤抖。

‘Yes; but I was in ignorance then of things which I know now— things which have altered my feelings about the future. When I saw you before, I was dreaming that I might come back some day. I don’t think I ever shall—now.’ Will paused here.
'是的;但当时我对现在所知道的事情一无所知——这些事情改变了我对未来的感受。当我以前见到你时，我就梦想着有一天我会回来。我想我永远不会——现在。”威尔说到这里停了下来。

‘You wished me to know the reasons?’ said Dorothea, timidly.
“你想让我知道原因吗？”多萝西娅胆怯地说。

‘Yes,’ said Will, impetuously, shaking his head backward, and looking away from her with irritation in his face. ‘Of course I must wish it. I have been grossly insulted in your eyes and in the eyes of others. There has been a mean implication against my character. I wish you to know that under no circumstances would I have lowered myself by— under no circumstances would I have given men the chance of saying that I sought money under the pretext of seeking—something else. There was no need of other safeguard against me—the safeguard of wealth was enough.’
“是的，”威尔急躁地说，向后摇着头，脸上带着恼怒，把目光从她身上移开。 “当然，我一定希望如此。我在你和其他人的眼中受到了严重的侮辱。这对我的性格有一种卑鄙的暗示。我希望你知道，在任何情况下，我都不会降低自己的身份——在任何情况下，我都不会让人们有机会说我以寻求其他东西为借口来寻求金钱。我不需要其他的保障——财富的保障就足够了。

Will rose from his chair with the last word and went—he hardly knew where; but it was to the projecting window nearest him, which had been open as now about the same season a year ago, when he and Dorothea had stood within it and talked together. Her whole heart was going out at this moment in sympathy with Will’s indignation: she only wanted to convince him that she had never done him injustice, and he seemed to have turned away from her as if she too had been part of the unfriendly world.
威尔从椅子上站起来，留下最后一句话，然后就走了——他几乎不知道去哪里；但那是离他最近的一扇突出的窗户，大约一年前的同一季节，窗户一直开着，当时他和多萝西娅站在窗户里一起说话。此时此刻，她全心全意地同情威尔的愤慨：她只想让他相信，她从未对他做过不公正的事，而他似乎已经远离了她，仿佛她也曾是这个不友好世界的一部分。

‘It would be very unkind of you to suppose that I ever attributed any meanness to you,’ she began. Then in her ardent way, wanting to plead with him, she moved from her chair and went in front of him to her old place in the window, saying, ‘Do you suppose that I ever disbelieved in you?’
“如果你认为我曾把任何卑鄙的行为归咎于你，那你就太不友善了，”她开始说道。然后，她热切地想要恳求他，从椅子上站起来，走到他面前原来靠窗的地方，说道：“你认为我曾经不相信过你吗？”

When Will saw her there, he gave a start and moved backward out of the window, without meeting her glance. Dorothea was hurt by this movement following up the previous anger of his tone. She was ready to say that it was as hard on her as on him, and that she was helpless; but those strange particulars of their relation which neither of them could explicitly mention kept her always in dread of saying too much. At this moment she had no belief that Will would in any case have wanted to marry her, and she feared using words which might imply such a belief. She only said earnestly, recurring to his last word—
当威尔看到她在那里时，他吓了一跳，向后退到窗外，没有看她的一眼。继他先前愤怒的语气之后，多萝西娅被这个动作伤害了。她准备说，这对她和对他一样艰难，她很无助；但他们关系中那些奇怪的细节，他们俩都无法明确提及，这让她总是害怕说得太多。此时此刻，她不相信威尔无论如何都会想娶她，而且她害怕使用可能暗示这种信念的词语。她只是认真地说，重复着他的最后一句话——

‘I am sure no safeguard was ever needed against you.’
“我确信你不需要采取任何保护措施。”

Will did not answer. In the stormy fluctuation of his feelings these words of hers seemed to him cruelly neutral, and he looked pale and miserable after his angry outburst. He went to the table and fastened up his portfolio, while Dorothea looked at him from the distance. They were wasting these last moments together in wretched silence. What could he say, since what had got obstinately uppermost in his mind was the passionate love for her which he forbade himself to utter? What could she say, since she might offer him no help— since she was forced to keep the money that ought to have been his?— since to-day he seemed not to respond as he used to do to her thorough trust and liking?
威尔没有回答。在他情绪的剧烈波动中，她的这句话对他来说似乎是残酷的中性，他在愤怒爆发后显得苍白而痛苦。他走到桌边，系好档案袋，多萝西娅则远远地看着他。他们在可悲的沉默中度过了最后的时光。既然他心中最重要的是他禁止自己说出的对她的热烈的爱，他还能说什么？既然她可能无法向他提供任何帮助——既然她被迫保留了本该属于他的钱？——既然今天他似乎没有像以前那样回应她彻底的信任和喜爱？

But Will at last turned away from his portfolio and approached the window again.
但威尔最终还是转身离开了他的公文包，再次走到了窗户边。

‘I must go,’ he said, with that peculiar look of the eyes which sometimes accompanies bitter feeling, as if they had been tired and burned with gazing too close at a light.
“我必须走了，”他说，那双眼睛有时带着一种奇特的神情，有时还带着苦涩的感觉，就好像它们因为太靠近灯光而感到疲倦和灼痛。

‘What shall you do in life?’ said Dorothea, timidly. ‘Have your intentions remained just the same as when we said good-by before?’
“你这一生要做什么？”多萝西娅胆怯地说。 “你的意图还和我们之前告别时一样吗？”

‘Yes,’ said Will, in a tone that seemed to waive the subject as uninteresting. ‘I shall work away at the first thing that offers. I suppose one gets a habit of doing without happiness or hope.’
“是的，”威尔说，语气似乎是因为这个话题无趣而放弃。 “我会努力做第一件事。”我想一个人会养成一种习惯，就是在没有快乐或希望的情况下做事。”

‘Oh, what sad words!’ said Dorothea, with a dangerous tendency to sob. Then trying to smile, she added, ‘We used to agree that we were alike in speaking too strongly.’
“哦，多么悲伤的话语啊！”多萝西娅说，带着危险的抽泣倾向。然后她试图微笑，补充道，“我们过去都一致认为，我们的言论都太过强烈了。”

‘I have not spoken too strongly now,’ said Will, leaning back against the angle of the wall. ‘There are certain things which a man can only go through once in his life; and he must know some time or other that the best is over with him. This experience has happened to me while I am very young—that is all. What I care more for than I can ever care for anything else is absolutely forbidden to me— I don’t mean merely by being out of my reach, but forbidden me, even if it were within my reach, by my own pride and honor— by everything I respect myself for. Of course I shall go on living as a man might do who had seen heaven in a trance.’
“我现在没有说得太强硬，”威尔靠在墙角上说道。 “有些事，人一生只能经历一次；他总有一天会知道最好的时光已经结束了。这种经历是在我很小的时候就发生过的——仅此而已。我所关心的事情比我关心的任何事情都对我来说是绝对禁止的——我的意思不仅仅是超出我的能力范围，而是出于我自己的骄傲和荣誉而禁止我，即使它在我能力范围之内。 ——通过我尊重自己的一切。当然，我会像一个在恍惚中看到天堂的人一样继续生活。

Will paused, imagining that it would be impossible for Dorothea to misunderstand this; indeed he felt that he was contradicting himself and offending against his self-approval in speaking to her so plainly; but still—it could not be fairly called wooing a woman to tell her that he would never woo her. It must be admitted to be a ghostly kind of wooing.
威尔停了下来，想象多萝西娅不可能误解这一点。事实上，他觉得自己如此直白地跟她说话是自相矛盾，冒犯了他的自我肯定。但尽管如此——告诉一个女人他永远不会追求她，这还不能算是追求一个女人。必须承认这是一种幽灵般的求爱。

But Dorothea’s mind was rapidly going over the past with quite another vision than his. The thought that she herself might be what Will most cared for did throb through her an instant, but then came doubt: the memory of the little they had lived through together turned pale and shrank before the memory which suggested how much fuller might have been the intercourse between Will and some one else with whom he had had constant companionship. Everything he had said might refer to that other relation, and whatever had passed between him and herself was thoroughly explained by what she had always regarded as their simple friendship and the cruel obstruction thrust upon it by her husband’s injurious act. Dorothea stood silent, with her eyes cast down dreamily, while images crowded upon her which left the sickening certainty that Will was referring to Mrs. Lydgate. But why sickening? He wanted her to know that here too his conduct should be above suspicion.
但多萝西娅的思绪很快就回到了过去，带着与他完全不同的愿景。她自己可能就是威尔最关心的人，这个念头瞬间在她心头闪过，但随之而来的是怀疑：他们一起经历的那段小日子的记忆在这表明他们曾经经历过的小事的记忆面前变得苍白并萎缩。威尔和其他一个和他一直保持着友谊的人之间的交往。他所说的一切都可能指的是另一种关系，而他和她之间发生的一切都可以通过她一直认为是他们的简单友谊和她丈夫的伤害行为所施加的残酷阻碍来彻底解释。多萝西娅一言不发地站着，目光若有所思地低垂着，脑海中浮现出无数的画面，让威尔确信威尔指的是利德盖特太太，这令人作呕。但为什么令人恶心呢？他想让她知道，在这里他的行为也应该是不容怀疑的。

Will was not surprised at her silence. His mind also was tumultuously busy while he watched her, and he was feeling rather wildly that something must happen to hinder their parting—some miracle, clearly nothing in their own deliberate speech. Yet, after all, had she any love for him?—he could not pretend to himself that he would rather believe her to be without that pain. He could not deny that a secret longing for the assurance that she loved him was at the root of all his words.
威尔对她的沉默并不感到惊讶。当他注视着她的时候，他的思绪也变得混乱起来，他疯狂地感觉到一定会发生什么事情来阻碍他们的分离——某种奇迹，在他们自己故意的谈话中显然没有什么。然而，她到底爱他吗？——他不能假装自己宁愿相信她没有那种痛苦。他无法否认，他所有话语的根源都是出于对她爱他的保证的秘密渴望。

Neither of them knew how long they stood in that way. Dorothea was raising her eyes, and was about to speak, when the door opened and her footman came to say—
两人都不知道自己就这样站了多久。多萝西娅抬起眼睛，正要说话，门开了，她的男仆走过来说——

‘The horses are ready, madam, whenever you like to start.’
“夫人，马匹已经准备好了，您什么时候想出发都可以。”

‘Presently,’ said Dorothea. Then turning to Will, she said, ‘I have some memoranda to write for the housekeeper.’
“现在，”多萝西娅说。然后她转向威尔说：“我有一些备忘录要写给管家。”

‘I must go,’ said Will, when the door had closed again—advancing towards her. ‘The day after to-morrow I shall leave Middlemarch.’
“我必须走了，”当门再次关上时，威尔向她走来，说道。 “后天我就要离开米德尔马奇了。”

‘You have acted in every way rightly,’ said Dorothea, in a low tone, feeling a pressure at her heart which made it difficult to speak.
“你在各方面都做得对。”多萝西娅低声说道，她感到心里有压力，难以言语。

She put out her hand, and Will took it for an instant with. out speaking, for her words had seemed to him cruelly cold and unlike herself. Their eyes met, but there was discontent in his, and in hers there was only sadness. He turned away and took his portfolio under his arm.
她伸出手，威尔立刻握住了她的手。他觉得她的话冷酷无情，不像她自己。他们的目光交汇，但他的眼里有不满，她的眼里只有悲伤。他转过身去，把文件夹夹在腋下。

‘I have never done you injustice. Please remember me,’ said Dorothea, repressing a rising sob.
‘我从来没有冤枉过你。请记住我，”多萝西娅强忍着抽泣说道。

‘Why should you say that?’ said Will, with irritation. ‘As if I were not in danger of forgetting everything else.’
“你为什么要这么说？”威尔恼怒地说。 “好像我没有忘记其他一切的危险。”

He had really a movement of anger against her at that moment, and it impelled him to go away without pause. It was all one flash to Dorothea— his last words—his distant bow to her as he reached the door— the sense that he was no longer there. She sank into the chair, and for a few moments sat like a statue, while images and emotions were hurrying upon her. Joy came first, in spite of the threatening train behind it—joy in the impression that it was really herself whom Will loved and was renouncing, that there was really no other love less permissible, more blameworthy, which honor was hurrying him away from. They were parted all the same, but—Dorothea drew a deep breath and felt her strength return—she could think of him unrestrainedly. At that moment the parting was easy to bear: the first sense of loving and being loved excluded sorrow. It was as if some hard icy pressure had melted, and her consciousness had room to expand: her past was come back to her with larger interpretation. The joy was not the less—perhaps it was the more complete just then— because of the irrevocable parting; for there was no reproach, no contemptuous wonder to imagine in any eye or from any lips. He had acted so as to defy reproach, and make wonder respectful.
他此刻确实对她产生了一种愤怒的情绪，这迫使他毫不犹豫地走开。多萝西娅脑海中突然闪现出这一切——他的最后一句话——他走到门口时远远地向她鞠了一躬——他感觉自己已经不在那儿了。她一屁股坐在椅子上，像一尊雕像一样坐了一会儿，画面和情感在她脑海中急速涌来。喜悦是第一位的，尽管背后有威胁性的火车——喜悦是因为威尔所爱并正在放弃的确实是她自己，确实没有其他爱更不被允许、更应受谴责，而荣誉正在催促他远离。他们还是分开了，但是——多萝西娅深吸了一口气，感觉自己的力量又回来了——她可以无拘无束地想起他。那一刻的离别是容易承受的：第一次爱与被爱的感觉排除了悲伤。仿佛某种坚硬冰冷的压力融化了，她的意识有了扩展的空间：她的过去带着更大的解释回到了她身边。喜悦并没有因为不可挽回的离别而减少——也许是更彻底；因为任何人的眼中或嘴唇上都没有责备，也没有轻蔑的惊奇。他的所作所为是为了无视责备，让奇迹受到尊重。

Any one watching her might have seen that there was a fortifying thought within her. Just as when inventive power is working with glad ease some small claim on the attention is fully met as if it were only a cranny opened to the sunlight, it was easy now for Dorothea to write her memoranda. She spoke her last words to the housekeeper in cheerful tones, and when she seated herself in the carriage her eyes were bright and her cheeks blooming under the dismal bonnet. She threw back the heavy ‘weepers,’ and looked before her, wondering which road Will had taken. It was in her nature to be proud that he was blameless, and through all her feelings there ran this vein—‘I was right to defend him.’
任何人只要看着她，就会发现她的内心深处蕴藏着一股强大的力量。正如当创造力轻松地发挥作用时，对注意力的一些小要求得到了充分满足，就好像它只是向阳光敞开的缝隙一样，现在多萝西娅可以轻松地写她的备忘录。她用欢快的语气向管家说了最后一句话，当她坐上马车时，她的眼睛明亮，阴郁的帽子下脸颊红润。她扔掉沉重的“哭泣者”，看着前方，想知道威尔走了哪条路。她的本性是为他的清白而感到自豪，在她所有的感情中都流露出这样的情绪：“我为他辩护是正确的。”

The coachman was used to drive his grays at a good pane, Mr. Casaubon being unenjoying and impatient in everything away from his desk, and wanting to get to the end of all journeys; and Dorothea was now bowled along quickly. Driving was pleasant, for rain in the night had laid the dust, and the blue sky looked far off, away from the region of the great clouds that sailed in masses. The earth looked like a happy place under the vast heavens, and Dorothea was wishing that she might overtake Will and see him once more.
车夫习惯于在一块好玻璃前驾驶他的灰色衣服，卡苏邦先生对远离他的办公桌的一切都感到不愉快和不耐烦，并且想要完成所有旅程；多萝西娅现在很快就被打滚了。开车很愉快，夜雨扬起尘土，蓝天看起来很遥远，远离了大片云彩的区域。广阔的天空下，大地看起来像一个幸福的地方，多萝西娅希望她能赶上威尔，再次见到他。

After a turn of the road, there he was with the portfolio under his arm; but the next moment she was passing him while he raised his hat, and she felt a pang at being seated there in a sort of exaltation, leaving him behind. She could not look back at him. It was as if a crowd of indifferent objects had thrust them asunder, and forced them along different paths, taking them farther and farther away from each other, and making it useless to look back. She could no more make any sign that would seem to say, ‘Need we part?’ than she could stop the carriage to wait for him. Nay, what a world of reasons crowded upon her against any movement of her thought towards a future that might reverse the decision of this day!
拐过一个路口后，他就到了，腋下夹着公文包。但下一刻，当他举起帽子时，她就从他身边经过了，她感到一种痛苦，因为她怀着一种兴奋的心情坐在那儿，把他抛在了后面。她无法回头看他。仿佛一群无关紧要的物体将他们推开，迫使他们走上不同的道路，让他们彼此之间的距离越来越远，再也没有回头的意义。她无法做出任何似乎是在说“我们需要分手吗？”的手势，就像她无法停下马车等他一样。不，她有太多的理由来反对她对未来的任何想法，因为这可能会扭转今天的决定！

‘I only wish I had known before—I wish he knew—then we could be quite happy in thinking of each other, though we are forever parted. And if I could but have given him the money, and made things easier for him!’—were the longings that came back the most persistently. And yet, so heavily did the world weigh on her in spite of her independent energy, that with this idea of Will as in need of such help and at a disadvantage with the world, there came always the vision of that unfittingness of any closer relation between them which lay in the opinion of every one connected with her. She felt to the full all the imperativeness of the motives which urged Will’s conduct. How could he dream of her defying the barrier that her husband had placed between them?—how could she ever say to herself that she would defy it?
“我只希望我之前就知道——我希望他知道——那么我们就会很高兴地想着彼此，尽管我们永远分开了。如果我能给他钱，让他的生活变得更轻松就好了！’——这是最持久的渴望。然而，尽管她有独立的精力，但这个世界对她的压力如此之大，以至于威尔需要这样的帮助，并且在世界上处于不利地位，总有一种认为任何更密切的关系都不合适的想法。他们之间存在着与她有关的每个人的看法。她充分感受到促使威尔行为的所有动机的迫切性。他怎么能梦见她反抗她丈夫在他们之间设置的障碍呢？——她怎么能对自己说她会反抗它呢？

Will’s certainty as the carriage grew smaller in the distance, had much more bitterness in it. Very slight matters were enough to gall him in his sensitive mood, and the sight of Dorothea driving past him while he felt himself plodding along as a poor devil seeking a position in a world which in his present temper offered him little that he coveted, made his conduct seem a mere matter of necessity, and took away the sustainment of resolve. After all, he had no assurance that she loved him: could any man pretend that he was simply glad in such a case to have the suffering all on his own side?
随着马车距离越来越远，威尔的确定感中也多了更多的苦涩。非常轻微的事情就足以让他敏感的心情感到恼火，当他看到多萝西娅开车从他身边驶过时，他觉得自己像一个可怜的魔鬼一样缓慢地前行，在这个世界上寻找一个位置，而以他目前的脾气，这个世界几乎没有给他带来他所渴望的位置，这让他感到很沮丧。他的行为似乎只是一种必然，并失去了维持决心的动力。毕竟，他不能保证她爱他：在这种情况下，有哪个男人能假装他只是很高兴把所有的痛苦都放在自己一边呢？

That evening Will spent with the Lydgates; the next evening he was gone.
那天晚上，威尔和利德盖特一家一起度过。第二天晚上他就走了。

BOOK VII.
第七册。


TWO TEMPTATIONS.
两个诱惑。


Chapter LXIII
第六十三章

These little things are great to little man.—GOLDSMITH.
这些小事对小个子来说却是伟大的。——金史密斯。

‘Have you seen much of your scientific phoenix, Lydgate, lately?’ said Mr. Toller at one of his Christmas dinner-parties, speaking to Mr. Farebrother on his right hand.
“利德盖特，你最近见过你的科学凤凰吗？”托勒先生在一次圣诞晚宴上对坐在他右手边的费尔布拉泽先生说道。

‘Not much, I am sorry to say,’ answered the Vicar, accustomed to parry Mr. Toller’s banter about his belief in the new medical light. ‘I am out of the way and he is too busy.’
“我很遗憾地说，没什么。”牧师回答道，他习惯于回避托勒先生关于他对新医学光明信仰的玩笑。 “我不碍事，他太忙了。”

‘Is he? I am glad to hear it,’ said Dr. Minchin, with mingled suavity and surprise.
'是他？ “我很高兴听到这个消息。”明钦博士语气中夹杂着温和和惊讶。

‘He gives a great deal of time to the New Hospital,’ said Mr. Farebrother, who had his reasons for continuing the subject: ‘I hear of that from my neighbor, Mrs. Casaubon, who goes there often. She says Lydgate is indefatigable, and is making a fine thing of Bulstrode’s institution. He is preparing a new ward in case of the cholera coming to us.’
“他为新医院投入了大量的时间，”费雷布拉泽先生说，他有理由继续这个话题：“我从我的邻居卡索邦夫人那里听说了这件事，她经常去那里。”她说利德盖特不知疲倦，并且正在使布尔斯特罗德的机构变得很好。他正在准备一个新病房，以防霍乱袭击我们。”

‘And preparing theories of treatment to try on the patients, I suppose,’ said Mr. Toller.
“我想，我们正在准备治疗理论，以便在患者身上进行试验，”托勒先生说。

‘Come, Toller, be candid,’ said Mr. Farebrother. ‘You are too clever not to see the good of a bold fresh mind in medicine, as well as in everything else; and as to cholera, I fancy, none of you are very sure what you ought to do. If a man goes a little too far along a new road, it is usually himself that he harms more than any one else.’
“来吧，托勒，说实话，”费雷布拉泽先生说。 “你太聪明了，不可能看不到在医学以及其他一切领域中大胆新鲜头脑的好处；至于霍乱，我想你们都不太清楚自己应该做什么。如果一个人在一条新道路上走得太远，通常他自己受到的伤害比任何人都大。

‘I am sure you and Wrench ought to be obliged to him,’ said Dr. Minchin, looking towards Toller, ‘for he has sent you the cream of Peacock’s patients.’
“我确信你和扳手应该感谢他，”铭钦医生看着托勒说道，“因为他给你送来了皮科克的病人中的精华。”

‘Lydgate has been living at a great rate for a young beginner,’ said Mr. Harry Toller, the brewer. ‘I suppose his relations in the North back him up.’
“对于一个年轻的初学者来说，利德盖特的生活水平很高，”酿酒师哈里·托勒先生说。 “我想他在北方的关系会支持他。”

‘I hope so,’ said Mr. Chichely, ‘else he ought not to have married that nice girl we were all so fond of. Hang it, one has a grudge against a man who carries off the prettiest girl in the town.’
“我希望如此，”奇切利先生说，“否则他就不应该娶我们都喜欢的那个好女孩。”算了，对一个抢走了城里最漂亮女孩的男人有仇。”

‘Ay, by God! and the best too,’ said Mr. Standish.
‘哎呀，上帝啊！也是最好的，”斯坦迪什先生说。

‘My friend Vincy didn’t half like the marriage, I know that,’ said Mr. Chichely. ‘HE wouldn’t do much. How the relations on the other side may have come down I can’t say.’ There was an emphatic kind of reticence in Mr. Chichely’s manner of speaking.
“我知道，我的朋友文西不太喜欢这桩婚姻，”奇切利先生说。 “他不会做太多事。我不能说对方的关系会如何恶化。”奇切利先生的说话方式中有一种明显的沉默。

‘Oh, I shouldn’t think Lydgate ever looked to practice for a living,’ said Mr. Toller, with a slight touch of sarcasm, and there the subject was dropped.
“噢，我不认为利德盖特会以练习为生。”托勒先生略带讽刺地说，然后话题就被搁置了。

This was not the first time that Mr. Farebrother had heard hints of Lydgate’s expenses being obviously too great to be met by his practice, but he thought it not unlikely that there were resources or expectations which excused the large outlay at the time of Lydgate’s marriage, and which might hinder any bad consequences from the disappointment in his practice. One evening, when he took the pains to go to Middlemarch on purpose to have a chat with Lydgate as of old, he noticed in him an air of excited effort quite unlike his usual easy way of keeping silence or breaking it with abrupt energy whenever he had anything to say. Lydgate talked persistently when they were in his work-room, putting arguments for and against the probability of certain biological views; but he had none of those definite things to say or to show which give the waymarks of a patient uninterrupted pursuit, such as he used himself to insist on, saying that ‘there must be a systole and diastole in all inquiry,’ and that ‘a man’s mind must be continually expanding and shrinking between the whole human horizon and the horizon of an object-glass.’ That evening he seemed to be talking widely for the sake of resisting any personal bearing; and before long they went into the drawing room, where Lydgate, having asked Rosamond to give them music, sank back in his chair in silence, but with a strange light in his eyes. ‘He may have been taking an opiate,’ was a thought that crossed Mr. Farebrother’s mind—‘tic-douloureux perhaps—or medical worries.’
这并不是费雷布拉泽先生第一次听到有人暗示利德盖特的开支明显太大，无法通过他的诊所来满足，但他认为，在利德盖特结婚时，有资源或期望可以原谅这笔巨额开支，这并非不可能。 ，这可能会阻止他的实践中的失望所带来的任何不良后果。一天晚上，当他特意去米德尔马奇，像往常一样与利德盖特聊天时，他注意到他身上有一种兴奋的努力神情，这与他平时保持沉默或突然精力充沛地打破沉默的轻松方式截然不同。有话要说。当他们在利德盖特的工作室里时，他们一直在不停地交谈，对某些生物学观点的可能性提出支持和反对的论据。但他没有明确的事情要说或展示，这些事情给耐心不间断的追求留下了路标，就像他自己过去坚持的那样，他说“在所有的探究中都必须有一个收缩和舒张”，并且“一个人的思想必须在整个人类地平线和物体玻璃的地平线之间不断地扩展和缩小。不久，他们走进客厅，利德盖特请罗莎蒙德给他们演奏音乐后，默默地靠在椅子上，但眼中闪烁着奇怪的光芒。 “他可能服用了阿片类药物，”法尔布拉泽先生的脑海中闪过一个念头——“也许是抽动症——或者是医疗上的担忧。”

It did not occur to him that Lydgate’s marriage was not delightful: he believed, as the rest did, that Rosamond was an amiable, docile creature, though he had always thought her rather uninteresting— a little too much the pattern-card of the finishing-school; and his mother could not forgive Rosamond because she never seemed to see that Henrietta Noble was in the room. ‘However, Lydgate fell in love with her,’ said the Vicar to himself, ‘and she must be to his taste.’
他没有想到利德盖特的婚姻并不令人愉快：他和其他人一样相信罗莎蒙德是一个和蔼可亲、温顺的人，尽管他一直认为她相当无趣——有点太过于结束的模式卡。 -学校;他的母亲无法原谅罗莎蒙德，因为她似乎从来没有看到亨利埃塔·诺布尔在房间里。 “然而，利德盖特爱上了她，”牧师自言自语道，“她一定很合他的口味。”

Mr. Farebrother was aware that Lydgate was a proud man, but having very little corresponding fibre in himself, and perhaps too little care about personal dignity, except the dignity of not being mean or foolish, he could hardly allow enough for the way in which Lydgate shrank, as from a burn, from the utterance of any word about his private affairs. And soon after that conversation at Mr. Toller’s, the Vicar learned something which made him watch the more eagerly for an opportunity of indirectly letting Lydgate know that if he wanted to open himself about any difficulty there was a friendly ear ready.
费勒布拉泽先生知道利德盖特是一个骄傲的人，但他自己却没有相应的素质，也许太不关心个人尊严，除了不卑鄙或愚蠢的尊严之外，他几乎不能允许足够的方式利德盖特就像被烧伤一样，不敢说出任何有关他私人事务的字眼。在托勒先生家的那次谈话之后不久，牧师学到了一些东西，这让他更加渴望有机会间接地让利德盖特知道，如果他想敞开心扉谈论任何困难，那么友好的倾听者已经准备好了。

The opportunity came at Mr. Vincy’s, where, on New Year’s Day, there was a party, to which Mr. Farebrother was irresistibly invited, on the plea that he must not forsake his old friends on the first new year of his being a greater man, and Rector as well as Vicar. And this party was thoroughly friendly: all the ladies of the Farebrother family were present; the Vincy children all dined at the table, and Fred had persuaded his mother that if she did not invite Mary Garth, the Farebrothers would regard it as a slight to themselves, Mary being their particular friend. Mary came, and Fred was in high spirits, though his enjoyment was of a checkered kind— triumph that his mother should see Mary’s importance with the chief personages in the party being much streaked with jealousy when Mr. Farebrother sat down by her. Fred used to be much more easy about his own accomplishments in the days when he had not begun to dread being ‘bowled out by Farebrother,’ and this terror was still before him. Mrs. Vincy, in her fullest matronly bloom, looked at Mary’s little figure, rough wavy hair, and visage quite without lilies and roses, and wondered; trying unsuccessfully to fancy herself caring about Mary’s appearance in wedding clothes, or feeling complacency in grandchildren who would ‘feature’ the Garths. However, the party was a merry one, and Mary was particularly bright; being glad, for Fred’s sake, that his friends were getting kinder to her, and being also quite willing that they should see how much she was valued by others whom they must admit to be judges.
机会来到了文西先生家里，元旦那天，那里举办了一场聚会，法尔布拉泽先生不可抗拒地被邀请参加，请求他在成为一名更伟大的人的第一个新年里一定不能抛弃他的老朋友。人，还有教区长和牧师。这次聚会非常友好：费雷兄弟家族的所有女士都在场；文西家的孩子们都在餐桌上吃饭，弗雷德说服了他的母亲，如果她不邀请玛丽·加思，费尔兄弟会认为这是对他们自己的侮辱，因为玛丽是他们特别的朋友。玛丽来了，弗雷德兴高采烈，尽管他的喜悦是一种参差不齐的胜利——他的母亲应该看到玛丽的重要性，而当费雷布拉泽先生坐在她旁边时，聚会中的主要人物都充满了嫉妒。在弗雷德还没有开始担心“被费雷布拉泽击倒”的日子里，他对自己的成就感到更加轻松，这种恐惧仍然在他面前。文西夫人尽显主妇风范，看着玛丽娇小的身材、粗糙的卷发、毫无百合花和玫瑰色的面容，不禁感到纳闷。试图想象自己关心玛丽穿着婚纱的外表，或者对孙子们将“成为”加斯家族的主角感到自满，但没有成功。不过，聚会很欢乐，玛丽尤其聪明。看在弗雷德的份上，他很高兴他的朋友们对她越来越友善，而且也非常愿意让他们看到她受到那些他们必须承认是评判者的其他人的重视。

Mr. Farebrother noticed that Lydgate seemed bored, and that Mr. Vincy spoke as little as possible to his son-in-law. Rosamond was perfectly graceful and calm, and only a subtle observation such as the Vicar had not been roused to bestow on her would have perceived the total absence of that interest in her husband’s presence which a loving wife is sure to betray, even if etiquette keeps her aloof from him. When Lydgate was taking part in the conversation, she never looked towards him any more than if she had been a sculptured Psyche modelled to look another way: and when, after being called out for an hour or two, he re-entered the room, she seemed unconscious of the fact, which eighteen months before would have had the effect of a numeral before ciphers. In reality, however, she was intensely aware of Lydgate’s voice and movements; and her pretty good-tempered air of unconsciousness was a studied negation by which she satisfied her inward opposition to him without compromise of propriety. When the ladies were in the drawing-room after Lydgate had been called away from the dessert, Mrs. Farebrother, when Rosamond happened to be near her, said—‘You have to give up a great deal of your husband’s society, Mrs. Lydgate.’
费勒布拉泽先生注意到利德盖特似乎很无聊，文西先生也尽量少和他的女婿说话。罗莎蒙德非常优雅和平静，只有像牧师这样的微妙观察没有被唤醒，才会发现她对丈夫的存在完全没有兴趣，而一个可爱的妻子肯定会背叛，即使礼节保持她对他疏远了。当利德盖特参与谈话时，她从来没有看向他，就好像她是一个雕塑般的普赛克，以另一种方式看她：当他被叫出一两个小时后，他重新进入房间，她似乎没有意识到这一事实，十八个月前，这会产生数字与密码的效果。但事实上，她对利德盖特的声音和动作有着强烈的感知；她那种脾气很好、无意识的神情是一种刻意的否定，她用这种否定来满足自己内心对他的反对，但又不失礼节。当利德盖特被叫走离开甜点后，女士们来到客厅时，费雷布拉泽夫人，当罗莎蒙德碰巧在她身边时，说道：“你必须放弃与你丈夫的交往，利德盖特夫人.'

‘Yes, the life of a medical man is very arduous: especially when he is so devoted to his profession as Mr. Lydgate is,’ said Rosamond, who was standing, and moved easily away at the end of this correct little speech.
“是的，医生的生活是非常艰辛的：尤其是当他像利德盖特先生一样全身心投入自己的职业时，”站着的罗莎蒙德说，在这个正确的简短演讲结束后，他轻松地走开了。

‘It is dreadfully dull for her when there is no company,’ said Mrs. Vincy, who was seated at the old lady’s side. ‘I am sure I thought so when Rosamond was ill, and I was staying with her. You know, Mrs. Farebrother, ours is a cheerful house. I am of a cheerful disposition myself, and Mr. Vincy always likes something to be going on. That is what Rosamond has been used to. Very different from a husband out at odd hours, and never knowing when he will come home, and of a close, proud disposition, I think’—indiscreet Mrs. Vincy did lower her tone slightly with this parenthesis. ‘But Rosamond always had an angel of a temper; her brothers used very often not to please her, but she was never the girl to show temper; from a baby she was always as good as good, and with a complexion beyond anything. But my children are all good-tempered, thank God.’
“没有人陪伴，她会感到非常无聊，”坐在老太太身边的文西夫人说。 “我确信当罗莎蒙德生病时我也是这么想的，而我和她住在一起。你知道，费勒兄弟夫人，我们的房子很令人愉快。我自己性格开朗，文西先生总是喜欢有事情发生。这就是罗莎蒙德已经习惯的事情。我认为，这与一个丈夫在奇怪的时间出去，永远不知道什么时候回家，以及一种亲密而骄傲的性格非常不同——不谨慎的文西夫人确实用这句话稍微降低了语气。 “但罗莎蒙德总是有天使般的脾气；她的哥哥们常常不讨好她，但她从来不是一个发脾气的女孩。她从小就一直很优秀，肤色也超凡脱俗。但我的孩子们都很脾气好，感谢上帝。”

This was easily credible to any one looking at Mrs. Vincy as she threw back her broad cap-strings, and smiled towards her three little girls, aged from seven to eleven. But in that smiling glance she was obliged to include Mary Garth, whom the three girls had got into a corner to make her tell them stories. Mary was just finishing the delicious tale of Rumpelstiltskin, which she had well by heart, because Letty was never tired of communicating it to her ignorant elders from a favorite red volume. Louisa, Mrs. Vincy’s darling, now ran to her with wide-eyed serious excitement, crying, ‘Oh mamma, mamma, the little man stamped so hard on the floor he couldn’t get his leg out again!’
这对于任何看着文西夫人的人来说都很容易相信，因为她把宽大的帽带向后一甩，并对她的三个小女儿（年龄从七岁到十一岁）微笑。但在那微笑的一瞥中，她不得不把玛丽·加思也包括在内，三个女孩把她逼到了角落里，让她给她们讲故事。玛丽刚刚读完侏儒怪的精彩故事，她已经牢牢记住了这个故事，因为莱蒂乐此不疲地从一本最喜欢的红书里向她无知的长辈们讲述这个故事。文西夫人的宝贝路易莎现在睁大眼睛，兴奋地跑向她，哭喊着：“哦，妈妈，妈妈，这个小个子在地板上跺得很重，腿再也抽不出来了！”

‘Bless you, my cherub!’ said mamma; ‘you shall tell me all about it to-morrow. Go and listen!’ and then, as her eyes followed Louisa back towards the attractive corner, she thought that if Fred wished her to invite Mary again she would make no objection, the children being so pleased with her.
“祝福你，我的小天使！”妈妈说。 “明天你就告诉我这一切。”去听吧！”然后，当她的目光随着路易莎回到迷人的角落时，她想，如果弗雷德希望她再次邀请玛丽，她不会反对，孩子们对她很满意。

But presently the corner became still more animated, for Mr. Farebrother came in, and seating himself behind Louisa, took her on his lap; whereupon the girls all insisted that he must hear Rumpelstiltskin, and Mary must tell it over again. He insisted too, and Mary, without fuss, began again in her neat fashion, with precisely the same words as before. Fred, who had also seated himself near, would have felt unmixed triumph in Mary’s effectiveness if Mr. Farebrother had not been looking at her with evident admiration, while he dramatized an intense interest in the tale to please the children.
但不久，角落里变得更加热闹了，因为费勒布拉泽先生走了进来，坐在路易莎身后，把她抱在腿上。于是，女孩们都坚持要他听小矮人的声音，而玛丽必须再讲一遍。他也坚持说，玛丽没有大惊小怪，又以她干净利落的方式开始，用的词与之前一模一样。弗雷德也坐在附近，如果费勒布拉泽先生没有用明显的钦佩的目光看着玛丽，而他则表现出对这个故事的浓厚兴趣，以取悦孩子们，他一定会对玛丽的效率感到无比的胜利。

‘You will never care any more about my one-eyed giant, Loo,’ said Fred at the end.
“你永远不会再关心我的独眼巨人卢，”弗雷德最后说道。

‘Yes, I shall. Tell about him now,’ said Louisa.
是的，我会的。现在谈谈他吧，”路易莎说。

‘Oh, I dare say; I am quite cut out. Ask Mr. Farebrother.’
‘哦，我敢说；我实在是太无聊了。问问费雷布拉泽先生吧。

‘Yes,’ added Mary; ‘ask Mr. Farebrother to tell you about the ants whose beautiful house was knocked down by a giant named Tom, and he thought they didn’t mind because he couldn’t hear them cry, or see them use their pocket-handkerchiefs.’
“是的，”玛丽补充道。 “请费雷布拉泽先生告诉你关于蚂蚁的故事，他们美丽的房子被一个名叫汤姆的巨人推倒了，他认为它们并不介意，因为他听不到它们哭泣，也看不到它们使用口袋手帕。”

‘Please,’ said Louisa, looking up at the Vicar.
“拜托，”路易莎抬头看着牧师。

‘No, no, I am a grave old parson. If I try to draw a story out of my bag a sermon comes instead. Shall I preach you a sermon?’ said he, putting on his short-sighted glasses, and pursing up his lips.
“不，不，我是一位严肃的老牧师。如果我试图从包里拿出一个故事，就会出现布道。我要给你讲道吗？”他戴上近视眼镜，撅起嘴唇说道。

‘Yes,’ said Louisa, falteringly.
“是的，”路易莎结结巴巴地说。

‘Let me see, then. Against cakes: how cakes are bad things, especially if they are sweet and have plums in them.’
‘那么让我看看。反对蛋糕：蛋糕是多么糟糕的东西，尤其是如果它们是甜的并且里面有李子的话。

Louisa took the affair rather seriously, and got down from the Vicar’s knee to go to Fred.
路易莎相当认真地对待这件事，从牧师的膝上下来，走向弗雷德。

‘Ah, I see it will not do to preach on New Year’s Day,’ said Mr. Farebrother, rising and walking—away. He had discovered of late that Fred had become jealous of him, and also that he himself was not losing his preference for Mary above all other women.
“啊，我看在元旦讲道是行不通的，”法尔布拉泽先生说着，站起身来走开。最近他发现弗雷德开始嫉妒他，而且他自己也没有失去对玛丽的偏爱。

‘A delightful young person is Miss Garth,’ said Mrs. Farebrother, who had been watching her son’s movements.
“加思小姐是一位令人愉快的年轻人，”一直注视着儿子一举一动的法尔布拉泽夫人说道。

‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Vincy, obliged to reply, as the old lady turned to her expectantly. ‘It is a pity she is not better-looking.’
“是的，”文西夫人不得不回答，老太太满怀期待地转向她。 “可惜她长得并不好看。”

‘I cannot say that,’ said Mrs. Farebrother, decisively. ‘I like her countenance. We must not always ask for beauty, when a good God has seen fit to make an excellent young woman without it. I put good manners first, and Miss Garth will know how to conduct herself in any station.’
“我不能这么说，”法尔布拉泽夫人果断地说。 ‘我喜欢她的面容。当良善的上帝认为没有美貌的优秀年轻女子是合适的时候，我们不能总是要求美貌。我把礼貌放在第一位，加斯小姐会知道如何在任何车站表现自己。

The old lady was a little sharp in her tone, having a prospective reference to Mary’s becoming her daughter-in-law; for there was this inconvenience in Mary’s position with regard to Fred, that it was not suitable to be made public, and hence the three ladies at Lowick Parsonage were still hoping that Camden would choose Miss Garth.
老太太的语气有些尖刻，有预谋地提到玛丽要成为她的儿媳妇。因为玛丽对于弗雷德的立场有这样的不便，不适合公开，因此洛威克牧师公馆的三位女士仍然希望卡姆登选择加斯小姐。

New visitors entered, and the drawing-room was given up to music and games, while whist-tables were prepared in the quiet room on the other side of the hall. Mr. Farebrother played a rubber to satisfy his mother, who regarded her occasional whist as a protest against scandal and novelty of opinion, in which light even a revoke had its dignity. But at the end he got Mr. Chichely to take his place, and left the room. As he crossed the hall, Lydgate had just come in and was taking off his great-coat.
新的访客进来了，客厅里充满了音乐和游戏，而大厅另一边安静的房间里则准备好了牌桌。费雷布拉泽先生玩橡皮牌是为了满足他母亲的要求，他母亲认为她偶尔打惠斯特是对丑闻和新奇观点的抗议，从这一点来看，即使是撤销也有其尊严。但最后他让奇切利先生代替他，然后离开了房间。当他穿过大厅时，利德盖特刚刚进来，正在脱大衣。

‘You are the man I was going to look for,’ said the Vicar; and instead of entering the drawing-room, they walked along the hall and stood against the fireplace, where the frosty air helped to make a glowing bank. ‘You see, I can leave the whist-table easily enough,’ he went on, smiling at Lydgate, ‘now I don’t play for money. I owe that to you, Mrs. Casaubon says.’
“你就是我要找的人，”牧师说。他们没有进入客厅，而是沿着大厅走，站在壁炉旁，那里寒冷的空气帮助形成了一个发光的堤岸。 “你看，我可以很容易地离开惠斯特牌桌，”他继续说道，微笑着利德盖特，“现在我不再为了钱而打牌了。卡苏邦夫人说，这是我欠你的。

‘How?’ said Lydgate, coldly.
“怎么办？”利德盖特冷冷地说。

‘Ah, you didn’t mean me to know it; I call that ungenerous reticence. You should let a man have the pleasure of feeling that you have done him a good turn. I don’t enter into some people’s dislike of being under an obligation: upon my word, I prefer being under an obligation to everybody for behaving well to me.’
“啊，你不是故意让我知道的；我称之为不慷慨的沉默。你应该让男人感到高兴，觉得你帮了他的忙。我不同意有些人不喜欢承担义务：说实话，我更喜欢对每个人都负有义务，因为他们对我表现得很好。

‘I can’t tell what you mean,’ said Lydgate, ‘unless it is that I once spoke of you to Mrs. Casaubon. But I did not think that she would break her promise not to mention that I had done so,’ said Lydgate, leaning his back against the corner of the mantel-piece, and showing no radiance in his face.
“我听不懂你的意思，”利德盖特说，“除非我曾经向卡苏朋夫人谈到过你。”但我不认为她会违背诺言，更不用说我已经这样做了。”利德盖特说着，背靠在壁炉架的一角上，脸上没有任何光彩。

‘It was Brooke who let it out, only the other day. He paid me the compliment of saying that he was very glad I had the living though you had come across his tactics, and had praised me up as a lien and a Tillotson, and that sort of thing, till Mrs. Casaubon would hear of no one else.’
“就在前几天，是布鲁克把这件事说出来的。他恭维我说，他很高兴我能活下去，尽管你已经发现了他的策略，并称赞我是留置权和蒂洛森之类的，直到卡苏邦夫人听到没有还有一个。”

‘Oh, Brooke is such a leaky-minded fool,’ said Lydgate, contemptuously.
“哦，布鲁克真是个心胸狭窄的傻瓜，”利德盖特轻蔑地说。

‘Well, I was glad of the leakiness then. I don’t see why you shouldn’t like me to know that you wished to do me a service, my dear fellow. And you certainly have done me one. It’s rather a strong check to one’s self-complacency to find how much of one’s right doing depends on not being in want of money. A man will not be tempted to say the Lord’s Prayer backward to please the devil, if he doesn’t want the devil’s services. I have no need to hang on the smiles of chance now.’
“嗯，当时我很高兴看到泄漏。我不明白为什么你不应该让我知道你想为我服务，我亲爱的朋友。你当然也为我做了一个。发现一个人的正确行为在多大程度上取决于不缺钱，这对一个人的自满是一种强有力的检查。如果一个人不想要魔鬼的服务，他就不会为了取悦魔鬼而倒着念主祷文。我现在不需要再抱着机遇的微笑了。”

‘I don’t see that there’s any money-getting without chance,’ said Lydgate; ‘if a man gets it in a profession, it’s pretty sure to come by chance.’
“我不认为没有机会就能赚钱，”利德盖特说。 “如果一个人在某个职业中获得了成功，那么这肯定是偶然的。”

Mr. Farebrother thought he could account for this speech, in striking contrast with Lydgate’s former way of talking, as the perversity which will often spring from the moodiness of a man ill at ease in his affairs. He answered in a tone of good-humored admission—
费勒布拉泽先生认为，他可以将这次演讲解释为与利德盖特以前的谈话方式形成鲜明对比的一种反常行为，这种反常往往是由于一个对自己的事务感到不自在的人的喜怒无常而产生的。他用一种幽默承认的语气回答道——

‘Ah, there’s enormous patience wanted with the way of the world. But it is the easier for a man to wait patiently when he has friends who love him, and ask for nothing better than to help him through, so far as it lies in their power.’
“啊，这个世界需要极大的耐心。但是，当一个人有爱他的朋友时，一个人更容易耐心等待，除了在他们力所能及的范围内帮助他渡过难关之外，别无他求。

‘Oh yes,’ said Lydgate, in a careless tone, changing his attitude and looking at his watch. ‘People make much more of their difficulties than they need to do.’
“哦，是的，”利德盖特改变态度，看了看手表，语气漫不经心地说。 “人们制造的困难比他们需要做的要多得多。”

He knew as distinctly as possible that this was an offer of help to himself from Mr. Farebrother, and he could not bear it. So strangely determined are we mortals, that, after having been long gratified with the sense that he had privately done the Vicar a service, the suggestion that the Vicar discerned his need of a service in return made him shrink into unconquerable reticence. Besides, behind all making of such offers what else must come?—that he should ‘mention his case,’ imply that he wanted specific things. At that moment, suicide seemed easier.
他清楚地知道，这是费雷布拉泽先生向自己提出的帮助，他无法忍受。我们凡人的决心是如此奇怪，以至于在对他私下为牧师提供了服务而感到很满意之后，当牧师意识到他需要服务作为回报的建议使他退缩到无法克服的沉默中。此外，在所有提出这样的提议的背后还必须有什么？——他应该“提及他的情况”，暗示他想要具体的东西。那一刻，自杀似乎更容易了。

Mr. Farebrother was too keen a man not to know the meaning of that reply, and there was a certain massiveness in Lydgate’s manner and tone, corresponding with his physique, which if he repelled your advances in the first instance seemed to put persuasive devices out of question.
法尔布拉泽先生太敏锐了，他不会不知道这个回答的意思，而且利德盖特的举止和语气有一定的厚重感，与他的体格相对应，如果他一开始就拒绝你的主动，似乎就会失去说服力。的问题。

‘What time are you?’ said the Vicar, devouring his wounded feeling.
“你现在几点了？”牧师强忍着受伤的心情问道。

‘After eleven,’ said Lydgate. And they went into the drawing-room.
“十一点以后，”利德盖特说。他们走进客厅。

CHAPTER LXIV
第十四章

1st Gent. Where lies the power, there let the blame lie too.
第一绅士。权力在哪里，责任就在哪里。

2d Gent. Nay, power is relative; you cannot fright
2d 绅士。不，权力是相对的；权力是相对的。你不能害怕

The coming pest with border fortresses,
边境要塞即将来临的害虫，

Or catch your carp with subtle argument.
或者用微妙的争论来钓鲤鱼。

All force is twain in one: cause is not cause
所有力量都合而为一：原因不是原因

Unless effect be there; and action’s self
除非有效果；和行动的自我

Must needs contain a passive. So command
必须需要包含被动语态。所以命令

Exists but with obedience.’
存在但要服从。

Even if Lydgate had been inclined to be quite open about his affairs, he knew that it would have hardly been in Mr. Farebrother’s power to give him the help he immediately wanted. With the year’s bills coming in from his tradesmen, with Dover’s threatening hold on his furniture, and with nothing to depend on but slow dribbling payments from patients who must not be offended—for the handsome fees he had had from Freshitt Hall and Lowick Manor had been easily absorbed—nothing less than a thousand pounds would have freed him from actual embarrassment, and left a residue which, according to the favorite phrase of hopefulness in such circumstances, would have given him ‘time to look about him.’
即使利德盖特倾向于对他的事务相当公开，他也知道费勒布拉泽先生几乎没有能力为他提供他立即想要的帮助。随着今年的账单从他的商人那里传来，多佛威胁要扣押他的家具，除了从病人那里缓慢流淌的付款之外别无他法，这些病人决不能被冒犯——因为他从弗雷西特庄园和洛威克庄园那里得到了可观的费用。很容易被吸收——至少一千英镑就能让他摆脱真正的尴尬，并留下一些残留物，根据这种情况下最喜欢的充满希望的短语，这些残留物会让他“有时间环顾四周”。

Naturally, the merry Christmas bringing the happy New Year, when fellow-citizens expect to be paid for the trouble and goods they have smilingly bestowed on their neighbors, had so tightened the pressure of sordid cares on Lydgate’s mind that it was hardly possible for him to think unbrokenly of any other subject, even the most habitual and soliciting. He was not an ill-tempered man; his intellectual activity, the ardent kindness of his heart, as well as his strong frame, would always, under tolerably easy conditions, have kept him above the petty uncontrolled susceptibilities which make bad temper. But he was now a prey to that worst irritation which arises not simply from annoyances, but from the second consciousness underlying those annoyances, of wasted energy and a degrading preoccupation, which was the reverse of all his former purposes. ‘THIS is what I am thinking of; and THAT is what I might have been thinking of,’ was the bitter incessant murmur within him, making every difficulty a double goad to impatience.
自然而然，圣诞快乐带来新年快乐，同胞们希望为他们微笑地给予邻居的麻烦和物品得到补偿，这让利德盖特的心里承受着肮脏的忧虑的压力，这对他来说几乎是不可能的。不间断地思考任何其他主题，即使是最习惯和最吸引人的主题。他并不是一个脾气暴躁的人；他的智力活动，他内心的热忱和善良，以及他坚强的体格，在还算轻松的条件下，总是使他不会因琐碎的、不受控制的易感性而发脾气。但他现在成了最严重的恼怒的牺牲品，这种恼怒不仅源于烦恼，还源于这些烦恼背后的第二个意识，即浪费的精力和可耻的专注，这与他以前的所有目的背道而驰。 ‘这就是我的想法； “这就是我可能想到的，”他内心不断地痛苦地低语，使每一个困难都成为不耐烦的双重刺激。

Some gentlemen have made an amazing figure in literature by general discontent with the universe as a trap of dulness into which their great souls have fallen by mistake; but the sense of a stupendous self and an insignificant world may have its consolations. Lydgate’s discontent was much harder to bear: it was the sense that there was a grand existence in thought and effective action lying around him, while his self was being narrowed into the miserable isolation of egoistic fears, and vulgar anxieties for events that might allay such fears. His troubles will perhaps appear miserably sordid, and beneath the attention of lofty persons who can know nothing of debt except on a magnificent scale. Doubtless they were sordid; and for the majority, who are not lofty, there is no escape from sordidness but by being free from money-craving, with all its base hopes and temptations, its watching for death, its hinted requests. its horse-dealer’s desire to make bad work pass for good, its seeking for function which ought to be another’s, its compulsion often to long for Luck in the shape of a wide calamity.
有些绅士对宇宙普遍不满，认为宇宙是一个愚蠢的陷阱，他们伟大的灵魂错误地掉进了这个陷阱，从而在文学上取得了惊人的成就。但自我的伟大和世界的微不足道的感觉可能有其安慰。利德盖特的不满情绪更难以忍受：他感觉到自己周围的思想和有效的行动都存在着宏伟的存在，而他的自我却被缩小为自私恐惧的悲惨孤立，以及对可能减轻这种恐惧的事件的粗俗焦虑。恐惧。他的麻烦也许会显得极其肮脏，并受到那些高人一等的关注，他们对债务一无所知，除非规模宏大。毫无疑问，他们是肮脏的；对于大多数并不崇高的人来说，除了摆脱对金钱的贪婪及其所有卑鄙的希望和诱惑、对死亡的警惕和暗示的要求之外，就无法摆脱肮脏。它的马贩子希望把坏事变成好事，它寻求本应属于别人的功能，它常常渴望以大灾难的形式获得好运。

It was because Lydgate writhed under the idea of getting his neck beneath this vile yoke that he had fallen into a bitter moody state which was continually widening Rosamond’s alienation from him. After the first disclosure about the bill of sale, he had made many efforts to draw her into sympathy with him about possible measures for narrowing their expenses, and with the threatening approach of Christmas his propositions grew more and more definite. ‘We two can do with only one servant, and live on very little,’ he said, ‘and I shall manage with one horse.’ For Lydgate, as we have seen, had begun to reason, with a more distinct vision, about the expenses of living, and any share of pride he had given to appearances of that sort was meagre compared with the pride which made him revolt from exposure as a debtor, or from asking men to help him with their money.
正是因为利德盖特一想到要把自己的脖子置于这个卑鄙的枷锁之下，他就陷入了痛苦的喜怒无常的状态，这不断扩大了罗莎蒙德与他的疏远。在第一次披露销售单后，他做了很多努力来吸引她同情他可能采取的措施来缩小他们的开支，随着圣诞节的临近，他的主张变得越来越明确。 “我们两个人只能靠一个仆人，生活费很少，”他说，“而我可以用一匹马来应付。”正如我们所见，利德盖特已经开始以更清晰的眼光推理，关于生活费用，以及他对这种外表的任何自豪感，与使他反抗作为债务人或要求人们帮助他用钱的自豪感相比，都是微不足道的。

‘Of course you can dismiss the other two servants, if you like,’ said Rosamond; ‘but I should have thought it would be very injurious to your position for us to live in a poor way. You must expect your practice to be lowered.’
“当然，如果你愿意的话，你可以解雇另外两个仆人，”罗莎蒙德说。 “但我应该想到，如果我们过着贫穷的生活，会对你的地位造成很大损害。”你必须预料到你的练习会被降低。

‘My dear Rosamond, it is not a question of choice. We have begun too expensively. Peacock, you know, lived in a much smaller house than this. It is my fault: I ought to have known better, and I deserve a thrashing—if there were anybody who had a right to give it me—for bringing you into the necessity of living in a poorer way than you have been used to. But we married because we loved each other, I suppose. And that may help us to pull along till things get better. Come, dear, put down that work and come to me.’
“我亲爱的罗莎蒙德，这不是一个选择的问题。我们的起步成本太高了。你知道，孔雀住在比这小得多的房子里。这是我的错：我应该更了解，而且我应该受到鞭打——如果有人有权给我的话——因为我让你不得不以比你过去习惯的更贫穷的方式生活。但我想，我们结婚是因为我们彼此相爱。这可能会帮助我们继续前进，直到事情变得更好。来吧，亲爱的，放下手头上的工作来找我吧。

He was really in chill gloom about her at that moment, but he dreaded a future without affection, and was determined to resist the oncoming of division between them. Rosamond obeyed him, and he took her on his knee, but in her secret soul she was utterly aloof from him. The poor thing saw only that the world was not ordered to her liking, and Lydgate was part of that world. But he held her waist with one hand and laid the other gently on both of hers; for this rather abrupt man had much tenderness in his manners towards women, seeming to have always present in his imagination the weakness of their frames and the delicate poise of their health both in body and mind. And he began again to speak persuasively.
那一刻他确实对她感到阴森森的，但他又害怕没有感情的未来，并决心抵制他们之间即将到来的分裂。罗莎蒙德服从了他，他把她抱在膝上，但在她秘密的灵魂里，她完全疏远他。这个可怜的东西只看到这​​个世界并不按照她的喜好排列，而利德盖特就是这个世界的一部分。但他却一手揽住了她的腰，另一只手轻轻的放在了她的双腰上。因为这个相当唐突的男人对女人的举止非常温柔，似乎总是在他的想象中呈现出她们身体虚弱的体格和她们身心健康的微妙平衡。他又开始有说服力地讲话。

‘I find, now I look into things a little, Rosy, that it is wonderful what an amount of money slips away in our housekeeping. I suppose the servants are careless, and we have had a great many people coming. But there must be many in our rank who manage with much less: they must do with commoner things, I suppose, and look after the scraps. It seems, money goes but a little way in these matters, for Wrench has everything as plain as possible, and he has a very large practice.’
“我发现，罗西，现在我稍微调查一下，我们的家务上浪费了这么多钱，这真是太棒了。”我想仆人们太粗心了，而且我们来了很多人。但我们队伍中肯定有很多人处理的事情要少得多：我想，他们必须处理普通的事情，并照顾残渣。看来，钱在这些事情上只起到了一点作用，因为扳手把一切都尽可能简单化了，而且他有一个非常大的诊所。

‘Oh, if you think of living as the Wrenches do!’ said Rosamond, with a little turn of her neck. ‘But I have heard you express your disgust at that way of living.’
“哦，如果你想像扳手那样生活的话！”罗莎蒙德说，脖子轻轻一转。 “但我听到你表达了对这种生活方式的厌恶。”

‘Yes, they have bad taste in everything—they make economy look ugly. We needn’t do that. I only meant that they avoid expenses, although Wrench has a capital practice.’
“是的，他们对一切事物的品味都很差——他们让经济看起来很丑陋。我们不需要那样做。我只是说他们避免了开支，尽管扳手有资本实践。

‘Why should not you have a good practice, Tertius? Mr. Peacock had. You should be more careful not to offend people, and you should send out medicines as the others do. I am sure you began well, and you got several good houses. It cannot answer to be eccentric; you should think what will be generally liked,’ said Rosamond, in a decided little tone of admonition.
‘为什么你不应该好好练习一下呢，特蒂乌斯？孔雀先生做到了。你要小心一点，不要得罪人，也应该像其他人一样去送药。我相信你一开始就很好，并且得到了几栋好房子。它不能回答为古怪；它不能回答为古怪。 “你应该想想什么会受到普遍的欢迎。”罗莎蒙德以一种坚决的警告语气说道。

Lydgate’s anger rose: he was prepared to be indulgent towards feminine weakness, but not towards feminine dictation. The shallowness of a waternixie’s soul may have a charm until she becomes didactic. But he controlled himself, and only said, with a touch of despotic firmness—
利德盖特的怒火升腾起来：他准备纵容女性的弱点，但不会纵容女性的指令。水精灵灵魂的浅薄可能具有魅力，直到她变得说教为止。但他控制住了自己，只是带着一丝霸道的坚定说道——

‘What I am to do in my practice, Rosy, it is for me to judge. That is not the question between us. It is enough for you to know that our income is likely to be a very narrow one— hardly four hundred, perhaps less, for a long time to come, and we must try to re-arrange our lives in accordance with that fact.’
‘罗西，我在练习中要做什么，由我来判断。这不是我们之间的问题。你只要知道，在未来很长一段时间内，我们的收入很可能会非常微薄——不到四百，甚至可能更少，我们必须根据这一事实尝试重新安排我们的生活。

Rosamond was silent for a moment or two, looking before her, and then said, ‘My uncle Bulstrode ought to allow you a salary for the time you give to the Hospital: it is not right that you should work for nothing.’
罗莎蒙德沉默了一两分钟，看着她的前方，然后说道：“布尔斯特罗德叔叔应该给你一份工资，相当于你为医院付出的时间：你不劳而获是不对的。”

‘It was understood from the beginning that my services would be gratuitous. That, again, need not enter into our discussion. I have pointed out what is the only probability,’ said Lydgate, impatiently. Then checking himself, he went on more quietly—
“从一开始大家就明白我的服务是免费的。同样，这不需要进入我们的讨论。我已经指出了唯一的可能性是什么。”利德盖特不耐烦地说。然后他检查了一下自己，然后更加平静地继续说道——

‘I think I see one resource which would free us from a good deal of the present difficulty. I hear that young Ned Plymdale is going to be married to Miss Sophy Toller. They are rich, and it is not often that a good house is vacant in Middlemarch. I feel sure that they would be glad to take this house from us with most of our furniture, and they would be willing to pay handsomely for the lease. I can employ Trumbull to speak to Plymdale about it.’
“我想我看到了一种资源，可以让我们摆脱目前的许多困难。我听说年轻的内德·普林代尔即将与苏菲·托勒小姐结婚。他们很富有，在米德尔马契，好房子空着的情况并不常见。我确信他们会很高兴从我们这里拿走这所房子和我们的大部分家具，并且他们愿意支付丰厚的租金。我可以聘请特朗布尔去和普林代尔谈谈这件事。

Rosamond left her husband’s knee and walked slowly to the other end of the room; when she turned round and walked towards him it was evident that the tears had come, and that she was biting her under-lip and clasping her hands to keep herself from crying. Lydgate was wretched—shaken with anger and yet feeling that it would be unmanly to vent the anger just now.
罗莎蒙德离开丈夫的膝盖，慢慢地走到房间的另一端。当她转身走向他时，很明显泪水已经涌出，她咬着下唇，紧握双手不让自己哭出来。利德盖特很可怜——气得浑身发抖，却又觉得现在发泄愤怒是没有男子气概的。

‘I am very sorry, Rosamond; I know this is painful.’
“我很抱歉，罗莎蒙德；我知道这很痛苦。

‘I thought, at least, when I had borne to send the plate back and have that man taking an inventory of the furniture—I should have thought THAT would suffice.’
“我想，至少，当我不得不把盘子寄回去并让那个人清点家具时——我应该认为这就足够了。”

‘I explained it to you at the time, dear. That was only a security and behind that Security there is a debt. And that debt must be paid within the next few months, else we shall have our furniture sold. If young Plymdale will take our house and most of our furniture, we shall be able to pay that debt, and some others too, and we shall be quit of a place too expensive for us. We might take a smaller house: Trumbull, I know, has a very decent one to let at thirty pounds a-year, and this is ninety.’ Lydgate uttered this speech in the curt hammering way with which we usually try to nail down a vague mind to imperative facts. Tears rolled silently down Rosamond’s cheeks; she just pressed her handkerchief against them, and stood looking al; the large vase on the mantel-piece. It was a moment of more intense bitterness than she had ever felt before. At last she said, without hurry and with careful emphasis—
“我当时就向你解释过，亲爱的。那只是一种证券，而在该证券的背后有一笔债务。这笔债务必须在接下来的几个月内偿还，否则我们的家具就会被卖掉。如果年轻的普利姆代尔将夺走我们的房子和大部分家具，我们将能够偿还这笔债务以及其他一些债务，我们将离开一个对我们来说太昂贵的地方。我们可能会买一栋小一点的房子：我知道，特朗布尔有一套非常不错的房子，每年出租三十英镑，而这是九十英镑。模糊的头脑对迫切的事实。泪水无声地从罗莎蒙德的脸颊上滚落。她只是把手帕按在他们身上，站在那里看着大家。壁炉架上的大花瓶。这是她从未感受过的更强烈的痛苦时刻。最后她不慌不忙地强调——

‘I never could have believed that you would like to act in that way.’
“我从来没想过你会这么做。”

‘Like it?’ burst out Lydgate, rising from his chair, thrusting his hands in his pockets and stalking away from the hearth; ‘it’s not a question of liking. Of course, I don’t like it; it’s the only thing I can do.’ He wheeled round there, and turned towards her.
“喜欢吗？”利德盖特突然从椅子上站起来，双手插进口袋，大步离开壁炉。 ‘这不是喜不喜欢的问题。当然，我不喜欢这样；这是我唯一能做的事。”他转过身来，转向她。

‘I should have thought there were many other means than that,’ said Rosamond. ‘Let us have a sale and leave Middlemarch altogether.’
“我本以为还有很多其他的办法，”罗莎蒙德说。 “让我们进行一次出售，然后彻底离开米德尔马奇。”

‘To do what? What is the use of my leaving my work in Middlemarch to go where I have none? We should be just as penniless elsewhere as we are here,’ said Lydgate still more angrily.
'做什么？我离开米德尔马奇的工作去我没有工作的地方有什么用呢？我们在其他地方也应该像在这里一样身无分文。”利德盖特更加愤怒地说。

‘If we are to be in that position it will be entirely your own doing, Tertius,’ said Rosamond, turning round to speak with the fullest conviction. ‘You will not behave as you ought to do to your own family. You offended Captain Lydgate. Sir Godwin was very kind to me when we were at Quallingham, and I am sure if you showed proper regard to him and told him your affairs, he would do anything for you. But rather than that, you like giving up our house and furniture to Mr. Ned Plymdale.’
“如果我们陷入那样的境地，那完全是你自己造成的，特提乌斯。”罗莎蒙德转过身来，满怀信心地说道。 ‘你不会对自己的家人做出应有的行为。你冒犯了利德盖特船长。当我们在夸林汉姆时，戈德温爵士对我非常友善，我相信如果你对他表现出适当的尊重并向他讲述你的事情，他会为你做任何事情。但除此之外，你还喜欢把我们的房子和家具让给内德·普林代尔先生。”

There was something like fierceness in Lydgate’s eyes, as he answered with new violence, ‘Well, then, if you will have it so, I do like it. I admit that I like it better than making a fool of myself by going to beg where it’s of no use. Understand then, that it is what I LIKE TO DO.’
利德盖特的眼睛里有一种凶狠的感觉，他用新的暴力回答道：“好吧，那么，如果你愿意的话，我确实喜欢它。”我承认我更喜欢这样，而不是在无用的地方乞讨而出丑。那么请理解，这就是我喜欢做的事情。

There was a tone in the last sentence which was equivalent to the clutch of his strong hand on Rosamond’s delicate arm. But for all that, his will was not a whit stronger than hers. She immediately walked out of the room in silence, but with an intense determination to hinder what Lydgate liked to do.
最后一句话的语气相当于他强有力的手抓住了罗莎蒙德纤弱的手臂。但尽管如此，他的意志并不比她强大半分。她立即​​默默地走出房间，但坚决要阻止利德盖特喜欢做的事情。

He went out of the house, but as his blood cooled he felt that the chief result of the discussion was a deposit of dread within him at the idea of opening with his wife in future subjects which might again urge him to violent speech. It was as if a fracture in delicate crystal had begun, and he was afraid of any movement that might mate it fatal. His marriage would be a mere piece of bitter irony if they could not go on loving each other. He had long ago made up his mind to what he thought was her negative character—her want of sensibility, which showed itself in disregard both of his specific wishes and of his general aims. The first great disappointment had been borne: the tender devotedness and docile adoration of the ideal wife must be renounced, and life must be taken up on a lower stage of expectation, as it is by men who have lost their limbs. But the real wife had not only her claims, she had still a hold on his heart, and it was his intense desire that the hold should remain strong. In marriage, the certainty, ‘She will never love me much,’ is easier to bear than the fear, ‘I shall love her no more.’ Hence, after that outburst, his inward effort was entirely to excuse her, and to blame the hard circumstances which were partly his fault. He tried that evening, by petting her, to heal the wound he had made in the morning, and it was not in Rosamond’s nature to be repellent or sulky; indeed, she welcomed the signs that her husband loved her and was under control. But this was something quite distinct from loving HIM. Lydgate would not have chosen soon to recur to the plan of parting with the house; he was resolved to carry it out, and say as little more about it as possible. But Rosamond herself touched on it at breakfast by saying, mildly—
他走出了家门，但当他的血液冷却下来时，他感到讨论的主要结果是他内心深处积聚了一种恐惧，因为他担心与妻子讨论未来的话题，这可能会再次促使他发表暴力言论。就好像精致的水晶开始破裂一样，他害怕任何可能致命的动作。如果他们不能继续彼此相爱，他的婚姻将只是一个苦涩的讽刺。他很早就认定了她的消极性格——她缺乏感性，这表现在无视他的具体愿望和总体目标。第一次巨大的失望已经来临：理想妻子的温柔忠诚和温顺崇拜必须被放弃，生活必须在较低的期望水平上开始，就像失去四肢的男人一样。但真正的妻子不仅拥有她的主张，她仍然牢牢地控制着他的心，而他强烈希望这种控制力能够保持牢固。在婚姻中，“她永远不会多爱我”的确定性比“我将不再爱她”的恐惧更容易忍受。因此，在那次爆发之后，他内心的努力完全是原谅她，责备她。艰苦的环境部分是他的错。那天晚上，他试图通过抚摸她来治愈早上造成的伤口，而罗莎蒙德的天性并不排斥或闷闷不乐。事实上，她很高兴看到丈夫爱她并且一切都在掌控之中。但这与爱他截然不同。利德盖特不会很快选择再次实施与房子分开的计划；他决心执行这件事，并且尽可能少说。但罗莎蒙德本人在早餐时谈到了这一点，温和地说——

‘Have you spoken to Trumbull yet?’
“你和特朗布尔谈过了吗？”

‘No,’ said Lydgate, ‘but I shall call on him as I go by this morning. No time must be lost.’ He took Rosamond’s question as a sign that she withdrew her inward opposition, and kissed her head caressingly when he got up to go away.
“不，”利德盖特说，“但我今天早上路过时会去拜访他。不能浪费时间。”他把罗莎蒙德的问题视为她撤回内心反对的信号，并在他起身离开时爱抚地吻了吻她的头。

As soon as it was late enough to make a call, Rosamond went to Mrs. Plymdale, Mr. Ned’s mother, and entered with pretty congratulations into the of the coming marriage. Mrs. Plymdale’s maternal view was, that Rosamond might possibly now have retrospective glimpses of her own folly; and feeling the advantages to be at present all on the side of her son, was too kind a woman not to behave graciously.
天色已晚，无法打电话时，罗莎蒙德就去找内德先生的母亲普林代尔夫人，对即将到来的婚姻表示热烈的祝贺。普利姆代尔夫人的母亲观点是，罗莎蒙德现在可能会回顾自己的愚蠢行为。她觉得目前站在儿子一边是有利的，她太善良了，不能表现得不客气。

‘Yes, Ned is most happy, I must say. And Sophy Toller is all I could desire in a daughter-in-law. Of course her father is able to do something handsome for her—that is only what would be expected with a brewery like his. And the connection is everything we should desire. But that is not what I look at. She is such a very nice girl—no airs, no pretensions, though on a level with the first. I don’t mean with the titled aristocracy. I see very little good in people aiming out of their own sphere. I mean that Sophy is equal to the best in the town, and she is contented with that.’
“是的，我必须说，内德非常高兴。苏菲·托勒就是我所希望的儿媳妇。当然，她的父亲能够为她做一些漂亮的事情——这只是对像他这样的啤酒厂的期望。这种联系就是我们所渴望的一切。但这不是我所看到的。她是一个非常好的女孩——没有架子，没有架子，尽管与第一个女孩处于同一水平。我指的不是那些有头衔的贵族。我认为人们的目标超出自己的范围没有什么好处。我的意思是，苏菲与镇上最优秀的人不相上下，她对此很满意。”

‘I have always thought her very agreeable,’ said Rosamond.
“我一直认为她非常和蔼可亲，”罗莎蒙德说。

‘I look upon it as a reward for Ned, who never held his head too high, that he should have got into the very best connection,’ continued Mrs. Plymdale, her native sharpness softened by a fervid sense that she was taking a correct view. ‘And such particular people as the Tollers are, they might have objected because some of our friends are not theirs. It is well known that your aunt Bulstrode and I have been intimate from our youth, and Mr. Plymdale has been always on Mr. Bulstrode’s side. And I myself prefer serious opinions. But the Tollers have welcomed Ned all the same.’
“我认为这是对内德的奖励，他从来没有把头抬得太高，他应该进入最好的联系，”普林代尔夫人继续说道，她天生的敏锐被一种强烈的感觉软化了，因为她正在采取正确的态度。看法。 “像托勒家族这样特殊的人，他们可能会反对，因为我们的一些朋友不是他们的。众所周知，我和布尔斯特罗德姨妈从小就很亲密，普利姆代尔先生也一直站在布尔斯特罗德先生一边。而我自己更喜欢严肃的意见。但托勒一家仍然欢迎内德。

‘I am sure he is a very deserving, well-principled young man,’ said Rosamond, with a neat air of patronage in return for Mrs. Plymdale’s wholesome corrections.
“我相信他是一个非常值得、有原则的年轻人，”罗莎蒙德说，带着一种干脆的恩惠态度，以回应普林代尔夫人有益的纠正。

‘Oh, he has not the style of a captain in the army, or that sort of carriage as if everybody was beneath him, or that showy kind of talking, and singing, and intellectual talent. But I am thankful he has not. It is a poor preparation both for here and Hereafter.’
“噢，他没有陆军上尉的风范，也没有那种仿佛人人都在他之下的举止，也没有那种炫耀的谈吐、歌唱和才智。但我很庆幸他没有。对于今生和来世来说，这都是一个糟糕的准备。

‘Oh dear, yes; appearances have very little to do with happiness,’ said Rosamond. ‘I think there is every prospect of their being a happy couple. What house will they take?’
“噢，亲爱的，是的；”外表与幸福没有多大关系，”罗莎蒙德说。 “我认为他们完全有可能成为幸福的一对。他们会选择什么房子？

‘Oh, as for that, they must put up with what they can get. They have been looking at the house in St. Peter’s Place, next to Mr. Hackbutt’s; it belongs to him, and he is putting it nicely in repair. I suppose they are not likely to hear of a better. Indeed, I think Ned will decide the matter to-day.’
‘哦，至于这一点，他们必须忍受他们所能得到的。他们一直在看圣彼得广场的房子，紧挨着哈克布特先生的房子；它是他的，他正在把它修理得很好。我想他们不太可能听到更好的。事实上，我认为内德今天会决定此事。

‘I should think it is a nice house; I like St. Peter’s Place.’
“我认为这是一座不错的房子；我喜欢圣彼得广场。

‘Well, it is near the Church, and a genteel situation. But the windows are narrow, and it is all ups and downs. You don’t happen to know of any other that would be at liberty?’ said Mrs. Plymdale, fixing her round black eyes on Rosamond with the animation of a sudden thought in them.
“嗯，这里离教堂很近，而且环境优雅。但窗户狭窄，而且都是高低起伏。 “你碰巧不知道还有其他人可以自由自在吗？”普林代尔太太说，她圆圆的黑眼睛盯着罗莎蒙德，眼神里突然闪现出一个想法。

‘Oh no; I hear so little of those things.’
'不好了;我很少听到这些事情。

Rosamond had not foreseen that question and answer in setting out to pay her visit; she had simply meant to gather any information which would help her to avert the parting with her own house under circumstances thoroughly disagreeable to her. As to the untruth in her reply, she no more reflected on it than she did on the untruth there was in her saying that appearances had very little to do with happiness. Her object, she was convinced, was thoroughly justifiable: it was Lydgate whose intention was inexcusable; and there was a plan in her mind which, when she had carried it out fully, would prove how very false a step it would have been for him to have descended from his position.
罗莎蒙德在出发去拜访她时并没有预见到这个问题和答案。她只是想收集任何信息，以帮助她避免在她完全不同意的情况下与自己的房子分开。至于她的回答中的谎言，她并没有反思，就像她没有反思她所说的“外表与幸福无关”的谎言一样。她确信，她的目标是完全合理的：利德盖特的意图是不可原谅的；利德盖特的意图是不可原谅的；而利德盖特的意图是不可原谅的。她心里有一个计划，当她完全执行这个计划时，就会证明他从自己的位置上下来是多么错误的一步。

She returned home by Mr. Borthrop Trumbull’s office, meaning to call there. It was the first time in her life that Rosamond had thought of doing anything in the form of business, but she felt equal to the occasion. That she should be obliged to do what she intensely disliked, was an idea which turned her quiet tenacity into active invention. Here was a case in which it could not be enough simply to disobey and be serenely, placidly obstinate: she must act according to her judgment, and she said to herself that her judgment was right—‘indeed, if it had not been, she would not have wished to act on it.’
她回家时经过博思罗普·特朗布尔先生的办公室，打算给那里打电话。这是罗莎蒙德一生中第一次想到以商业形式做任何事情，但她觉得自己可以应对这个场合。她应该被迫做她非常不喜欢的事情，这一想法将她安静的坚韧变成了积极的发明。在这种情况下，仅仅不服从和平静地、平静地固执是不够的：她必须根据自己的判断行事，她对自己说，她的判断是正确的——“确实，如果不是这样，她不会希望对此采取行动。

Mr. Trumbull was in the back-room of his office, and received Rosamond with his finest manners, not only because he had much sensibility to her charms, but because the good-natured fibre in him was stirred by his certainty that Lydgate was in difficulties, and that this uncommonly pretty woman—this young lady with the highest personal attractions—was likely to feel the pinch of trouble— to find herself involved in circumstances beyond her control. He begged her to do him the honor to take a seat, and stood before her trimming and comporting himself with an eager solicitude, which was chiefly benevolent. Rosamond’s first question was, whether her husband had called on Mr. Trumbull that morning, to speak about disposing of their house.
特朗布尔先生在他办公室的后屋里，以他最优雅的举止接待了罗莎蒙德，不仅因为他对她的魅力非常敏感，而且因为他确信利德盖特就在他身边，这激起了他内心的善良。困难，而这位异常漂亮的女人——这位具有最高个人吸引力的年轻女士——很可能会感到麻烦——发现自己陷入了无法控制的境地。他请求她给他一个荣幸的座位，然后站在她面前，打扮得漂漂亮亮，表现得热切关心，这主要是仁慈的。罗莎蒙德的第一个问题是，她的丈夫那天早上是否拜访过特朗布尔先生，谈论处置他们的房子的问题。

‘Yes, ma’am, yes, he did; he did so,’ said the good auctioneer, trying to throw something soothing into his iteration. ‘I was about to fulfil his order, if possible, this afternoon. He wished me not to procrastinate.’
“是的，女士，是的，他做到了；” “他这么做了。”这位优秀的拍卖师说道，试图在他的迭代中加入一些安慰的话。 “如果可能的话，我今天下午就要完成他的订单。他希望我不要拖延。

‘I called to tell you not to go any further, Mr. Trumbull; and I beg of you not to mention what has been said on the subject. Will you oblige me?’
“我打电话是要告诉你不要再走下去了，特朗布尔先生；”我恳求你不要提及有关这个问题的言论。你愿意答应我吗？

‘Certainly I will, Mrs. Lydgate, certainly. Confidence is sacred with me on business or any other topic. I am then to consider the commission withdrawn?’ said Mr. Trumbull, adjusting the long ends of his blue cravat with both hands, and looking at Rosamond deferentially.
“我当然会的，利德盖特夫人，当然。在商业或任何其他话题上，信心对我来说是神圣的。 “那么我就可以考虑撤回佣金吗？”特朗布尔先生一边说，一边用双手调整着蓝色领带的长端，恭敬地看着罗莎蒙德。

‘Yes, if you please. I find that Mr. Ned Plymdale has taken a house— the one in St. Peter’s Place next to Mr. Hackbutt’s. Mr. Lydgate would be annoyed that his orders should be fulfilled uselessly. And besides that, there are other circumstances which render the proposal unnecessary.’
是的，如果你愿意的话。我发现内德·普林代尔先生租了一栋房子——位于哈克布特先生旁边的圣彼得广场的那栋房子。利德盖特先生会因为他的命令毫无用处地执行而感到恼火。除此之外，还有其他情况使得该提案没有必要。”

‘Very good, Mrs. Lydgate, very good. I am at your commands, whenever you require any service of me,’ said Mr. Trumbull, who felt pleasure in conjecturing that some new resources had been opened. ‘Rely on me, I beg. The affair shall go no further.’
“很好，利德盖特夫人，很好。每当您需要我提供任何服务时，我都听从您的指挥。”特朗布尔先生说道，他很高兴推测一些新资源已经被开放。 ‘相信我，我恳求你。事情不会再进一步​​了。

That evening Lydgate was a little comforted by observing that Rosamond was more lively than she had usually been of late, and even seemed interested in doing what would please him without being asked. He thought, ‘If she will be happy and I can rub through, what does it all signify? It is only a narrow swamp that we have to pass in a long journey. If I can get my mind clear again, I shall do.’
那天晚上，利德盖特看到罗莎蒙德比平时更活泼，甚至似乎有兴趣在没有被要求的情况下做一些让他高兴的事情，这让利德盖特感到有点安慰。他想，‘如果她能幸福，而我能坚持下去，这一切意味着什么？这只是我们长途跋涉必须经过的一片狭窄的沼泽。如果我能再次理清思路，我就会这么做。

He was so much cheered that he began to search for an account of experiments which he had long ago meant to look up, and had neglected out of that creeping self-despair which comes in the train of petty anxieties. He felt again some of the old delightful absorption in a far-reaching inquiry, while Rosamond played the quiet music which was as helpful to his meditation as the plash of an oar on the evening lake. It was rather late; he had pushed away all the books, and was looking at the fire with his hands clasped behind his head in forgetfulness of everything except the construction of a new controlling experiment, when Rosamond, who had left the piano and was leaning back in her chair watching him, said—
他非常高兴，开始寻找一些他早就想查找的实验记录，但由于随着琐碎的焦虑而来的逐渐蔓延的自我绝望，他忽略了这些实验。当罗莎蒙德演奏着安静的音乐时，他再次感受到了过去那种令人愉快的专注于深远的探究的感觉，这对他的冥想有帮助，就像傍晚湖面上桨的拍打声一样。时间已经很晚了。他推开了所有的书，双手抱在脑后看着火，除了构建一个新的控制实验之外，什么都忘记了，这时罗莎蒙德离开了钢琴，靠在椅子上看着。他说——

‘Mr. Ned Plymdale has taken a house already.’
'先生。内德·普林代尔已经买了一所房子。

Lydgate, startled and jarred, looked up in silence for a moment, like a man who has been disturbed in his sleep. Then flushing with an unpleasant consciousness, he asked—
利德盖特感到震惊和震惊，沉默地抬起头看了一会儿，就像一个在睡梦中被打扰的人。然后他满脸通红，带着一种不愉快的意识问道——

‘How do you know?’
'你怎么知道？'

‘I called at Mrs. Plymdale’s this morning, and she told me that he had taken the house in St. Peter’s Place, next to Mr. Hackbutt’s.’
“今天早上我去了普利姆代尔夫人家，她告诉我，他已经租下了哈克布特先生家旁边的圣彼得广场的房子。”

Lydgate was silent. He drew his hands from behind his head and pressed them against the hair which was hanging, as it was apt to do, in a mass on his forehead, while he rested his elbows on his knees. He was feeling bitter disappointment, as if he had opened a door out of a suffocating place and had found it walled up; but he also felt sure that Rosamond was pleased with the cause of his disappointment. He preferred not looking at her and not speaking, until he had got over the first spasm of vexation. After all, he said in his bitterness, what can a woman care about so much as house and furniture? a husband without them is an absurdity. When he looked up and pushed his hair aside, his dark eyes had a miserable blank non-expectance of sympathy in them, but he only said, coolly—
利德盖特沉默了。他把手从脑后抽出来，按在前额上垂下来的头发上，而他的手肘则放在膝盖上。他感到一阵苦涩的失望，就好像他从一个令人窒息的地方打开了一扇门，却发现它被墙堵住了；但他也确信罗莎蒙德对他失望的原因感到满意。他宁愿不看她也不说话，直到他克服了第一次的烦恼。毕竟，他苦涩地说，一个女人，还有什么比房子和家具更在乎的呢？没有她们的丈夫是荒谬的。当他抬起头，将头发拨到一边时，漆黑的眸子里闪着悲惨的茫然，不期待同情，但他只是冷冷地说——

‘Perhaps some one else may turn up. I told Trumbull to be on the look-out if he failed with Plymdale.’
‘也许其他人可能会出现。我告诉特朗布尔，如果他在普利姆代尔失败了，要小心。

Rosamond made no remark. She trusted to the chance that nothing more would pass between her husband and the auctioneer until some issue should have justified her interference; at any rate, she had hindered the event which she immediately dreaded. After a pause, she said—
罗莎蒙德没有发表任何评论。她相信，在某些问题证明她的干涉是合理的之前，她的丈夫和拍卖师之间不会再有任何事情发生。无论如何，她阻碍了她立即害怕的事​​情。停顿了一下，她说道——

‘How much money is it that those disagreeable people want?’
“那些讨厌的人想要多少钱？”

‘What disagreeable people?’
“什么令人讨厌的人？”

‘Those who took the list—and the others. I mean, how much money would satisfy them so that you need not be troubled any more?’
“那些拿到名单的人——以及其他人。我的意思是，多少钱才能让他们满意，这样你就不用再受困扰了？

Lydgate surveyed her for a moment, as if he were looking for symptoms, and then said, ‘Oh, if I could have got six hundred from Plymdale for furniture and as premium, I might have managed. I could have paid off Dover, and given enough on account to the others to make them wait patiently, if we contracted our expenses.’
利德盖特打量了她一会儿，仿佛在寻找症状，然后说道：“哦，如果我能从普利姆代尔买六百块家具和保费，我也许就能办到。”如果我们缩减开支的话，我本可以还清多佛的钱，并给其他人足够的货款，让他们耐心等待。

‘But I mean how much should you want if we stayed in this house?’
“但我的意思是，如果我们住在这所房子里，你想要多少钱？”

‘More than I am likely to get anywhere,’ said Lydgate, with rather a grating sarcasm in his tone. It angered him to perceive that Rosamond’s mind was wandering over impracticable wishes instead of facing possible efforts.
“比我可能得到的还要多，”利德盖特说道，语气中带着刺耳的讽刺。当他发现罗莎蒙德的心思在不切实际的愿望上徘徊，而不是面对可能的努力时，他感到愤怒。

‘Why should you not mention the sum?’ said Rosamond, with a mild indication that she did not like his manners.
“你为什么不提这笔钱呢？”罗莎蒙德说道，语气温和地表明她不喜欢他的举止。

‘Well,’ said Lydgate in a guessing tone, ‘it would take at least a thousand to set me at ease. But,’ he added, incisively, ‘I have to consider what I shall do without it, not with it.’
“好吧，”利德盖特用猜测的语气说道，“至少需要一千次才能让我放心。但是，”他尖锐地补充道，“我必须考虑没有它我该怎么办，而不是有了它。”

Rosamond said no more.
罗莎蒙德不再说话。

But the next day she carried out her plan of writing to Sir Godwin Lydgate. Since the Captain’s visit, she had received a letter from him, and also one from Mrs. Mengan, his married sister, condoling with her on the loss of her baby, and expressing vaguely the hope that they should see her again at Quallingham. Lydgate had told her that this politeness meant nothing; but she was secretly convinced that any backwardness in Lydgate’s family towards him was due to his cold and contemptuous behavior, and she had answered the letters in her most charming manner, feeling some confidence that a specific invitation would follow. But there had been total silence. The Captain evidently was not a great penman, and Rosamond reflected that the sisters might have been abroad. However, the season was come for thinking of friends at home, and at any rate Sir Godwin, who had chucked her under the chin, and pronounced her to be like the celebrated beauty, Mrs. Croly, who had made a conquest of him in 1790, would be touched by any appeal from her, and would find it pleasant for her sake to behave as he ought to do towards his nephew. Rosamond was naively convinced of what an old gentleman ought to do to prevent her from suffering annoyance. And she wrote what she considered the most judicious letter possible— one which would strike Sir Godwin as a proof of her excellent sense— pointing out how desirable it was that Tertius should quit such a place as Middlemarch for one more fitted to his talents, how the unpleasant character of the inhabitants had hindered his professional success, and how in consequence he was in money difficulties, from which it would require a thousand pounds thoroughly to extricate him. She did not say that Tertius was unaware of her intention to write; for she had the idea that his supposed sanction of her letter would be in accordance with what she did say of his great regard for his uncle Godwin as the relative who had always been his best friend. Such was the force of Poor Rosamond’s tactics now she applied them to affairs.
但第二天她就执行了给戈德温·利德盖特爵士写信的计划。自从上尉来访后，她收到了他的一封信，还有他已婚的妹妹门甘夫人的一封信，信中对她失去孩子表示哀悼，并含糊地表示希望他们能在夸林厄姆再次见到她。利德盖特告诉她，这种礼貌毫无意义。但她暗自确信，利德盖特家族对他的任何落后都是由于他的冷漠和轻蔑行为，她以最迷人的方式回了信，对随之而来的特定邀请感到有些信心。但周围一片寂静。船长显然不是一个伟大的作家，罗莎蒙德认为姐妹俩可能去了国外。然而，想到家里的朋友的季节到了，无论如何，戈德温爵士把她扔到了下巴下面，并宣称她就像著名的美女克罗利夫人一样，克罗利夫人在一年中征服了他。 1790年，他会被她的任何呼吁所感动，并且会发现为了她而对他的侄子采取他应该做的事情是令人愉快的。罗莎蒙德天真地相信，一位老绅士应该采取什么措施来避免她遭受烦恼。她写了一封她认为可能是最明智的信——一封令戈德温爵士印象深刻的信，证明了她卓越的判断力——指出特提乌斯离开米德尔马契这样的地方去寻找一个更适合他才能的地方是多么可取，居民们令人不愉快的性格阻碍了他职业上的成功，结果他陷入了经济困难，需要一千英镑才能彻底摆脱困境。 她并没有说特蒂乌斯不知道她写作的意图；而是说，特蒂乌斯不知道她写作的意图。因为她认为他对她的信的所谓批准将与她所说的他对他叔叔戈德温的高度尊重相一致，戈德温是他的亲戚，也是他最好的朋友。这就是可怜的罗莎蒙德的策略的力量，现在她把它们应用到事务上。

This had happened before the party on New Year’s Day, and no answer had yet come from Sir Godwin. But on the morning of that day Lydgate had to learn that Rosamond had revoked his order to Borthrop Trumbull. Feeling it necessary that she should be gradually accustomed to the idea of their quitting the house in Lowick Gate, he overcame his reluctance to speak to her again on the subject, and when they were breakfasting said—
这件事发生在元旦聚会之前，戈德温爵士还没有给出任何答复。但就在那天早上，利德盖特得知罗莎蒙德已经撤销了对博思罗普·特朗布尔的命令。他觉得她有必要逐渐习惯他们离开洛威克门的房子的想法，他克服了不愿再次与她谈论这个话题的心情，在他们吃早餐的时候说道——

‘I shall try to see Trumbull this morning, and tell him to. advertise the house in the ‘Pioneer’ and the ‘Trumpet.’ If the thing were advertised, some one might be inclined to take it who would not otherwise have thought of a change. In these country places many people go on in their old houses when their families are too large for them, for want of knowing where they can find another. And Trumbull seems to have got no bite at all.’
“今天早上我会试着去见特朗布尔，并告诉他。在《先锋报》和《小号报》上为这所房子做广告。如果这件事被登出广告，一些人可能会倾向于接受它，否则他们不会想到改变。在这些乡村地区，当家庭人口过多时，许多人仍继续住在自己的老房子里，因为他们不知道在哪里可以找到另一个家庭。特朗布尔似乎根本没有被咬到。

Rosamond knew that the inevitable moment was come. ‘I ordered Trumbull not to inquire further,’ she said, with a careful calmness which was evidently defensive.
罗莎蒙德知道不可避免的时刻已经到来。 “我命令特朗布尔不要进一步询问，”她说，语气小心谨慎，显然是出于防御。

Lydgate stared at her in mute amazement. Only half an hour before he had been fastening up her plaits for her, and talking the ‘little language’ of affection, which Rosamond, though not returning it, accepted as if she had been a serene and lovely image, now and then miraculously dimpling towards her votary. With such fibres still astir in him, the shock he received could not at once be distinctly anger; it was confused pain. He laid down the knife and fork with which he was carving, and throwing himself back in his chair, said at last, with a cool irony in his tone—
利德盖特无声地惊讶地看着她。就在半小时前，他还为她扎紧辫子，说着爱意的“小语言”，罗莎蒙德虽然没有回应，但还是接受了，仿佛她是一个宁静而可爱的形象，时不时奇迹般地露出酒窝。走向她的选民。由于这些纤维仍在他体内搅动，他所受到的震惊不可能立刻就明显是愤怒；而是愤怒。这是混乱的痛苦。他放下正在切肉的刀叉，往椅背上一靠，最后说道，语气中带着冷酷的讽刺——

‘May I ask when and why you did so?’
“请问您何时以及为何这样做？”

‘When I knew that the Plymdales had taken a house, I called to tell him not to mention ours to them; and at the same time I told him not to let the affair go on any further. I knew that it would be very injurious to you if it were known that you wished to part with your house and furniture, and I had a very strong objection to it. I think that was reason enough.’
“当我知道普林代尔夫妇已经买了一套房子时，我打电话告诉他不要向他们提起我们的房子；同时我也告诉他不要再让这件事继续下去了。我知道，如果让别人知道你想放弃你的房子和家具，对你来说是非常伤害的，我对此非常反对。我认为这已经是足够的理由了。

‘It was of no consequence then that I had told you imperative reasons of another kind; of no consequence that I had come to a different conclusion, and given an order accordingly?’ said Lydgate, bitingly, the thunder and lightning gathering about his brow and eyes.
“那么，我告诉你另一种迫在眉睫的原因并不重要。 “我得出了不同的结论，并相应地下达了命令，这没什么影响吗？”利德盖特尖刻地说，雷电在他的额头和眼睛周围聚集。

The effect of any one’s anger on Rosamond had always been to make her shrink in cold dislike, and to become all the more calmly correct, in the conviction that she was not the person to misbehave whatever others might do. She replied—
任何人的愤怒对罗莎蒙德的影响总是让她因冷酷的厌恶而畏缩，并变得更加冷静正确，因为她坚信她不是一个无论别人做什么都会做出不法行为的人。她回应-

‘I think I had a perfect right to speak on a subject which concerns me at least as much as you.’
“我认为我完全有权利就一个至少和你一样关心的话题发表看法。”

‘Clearly—you had a right to speak, but only to me. You had no right to contradict my orders secretly, and treat me as if I were a fool,’ said Lydgate, in the same tone as before. Then with some added scorn, ‘Is it possible to make you understand what the consequences will be? Is it of any use for me to tell you again why we must try to part with the house?’
“显然——你有权说话，但仅限于我。你没有权利暗中违背我的命令，把我当傻瓜一样。”利德盖特语气和之前一样说道。然后又带着几分轻蔑，‘能不能让你明白后果是什么？我再告诉你为什么我们必须尝试放弃房子有什么用吗？

‘It is not necessary for you to tell me again,’ said Rosamond, in a voice that fell and trickled like cold water-drops. ‘I remembered what you said. You spoke just as violently as you do now. But that does not alter my opinion that you ought to try every other means rather than take a step which is so painful to me. And as to advertising the house, I think it would be perfectly degrading to you.’
“你没有必要再告诉我一次，”罗莎蒙德说道，声音像冰冷的水滴一样低沉而滴落。 ‘我记住了你说的话。你说话的语气和现在一样粗暴。但这并没有改变我的观点，即你应该尝试所有其他方法，而不是采取对我来说如此痛苦的一步。至于为房子做广告，我认为这对你来说是完全有辱人格的。”

‘And suppose I disregard your opinion as you disregard mine?’
“假设我无视你的意见，就像你无视我的意见一样？”

‘You can do so, of course. But I think you ought to have told me before we were married that you would place me in the worst position, rather than give up your own will.’
‘当然，你可以这样做。但我认为你应该在我们结婚之前告诉我，你会把我置于最糟糕的境地，而不是放弃你自己的意愿。”

Lydgate did not speak, but tossed his head on one side, and twitched the corners of his mouth in despair. Rosamond, seeing that he was not looking at her, rose and set his cup of coffee before him; but he took no notice of it, and went on with an inward drama and argument, occasionally moving in his seat, resting one arm on the table, and rubbing his hand against his hair. There was a conflux of emotions and thoughts in him that would not let him either give thorough way to his anger or persevere with simple rigidity of resolve. Rosamond took advantage of his silence.
利德盖特没有说话，只是把头偏向一侧，绝望地抽动着嘴角。罗莎蒙德发现他没有看她，便站起身来，将一杯咖啡放在他面前。但他没有注意到这一点，继续进行内心的戏剧和争论，偶尔在座位上移动，将一只手臂放在桌子上，用手摩擦头发。他内心的情绪和思想混杂在一起，既无法彻底发泄愤怒，也无法坚持简单的坚定决心。罗莎蒙德利用了他的沉默。

‘When we were married everyone felt that your position was very high. I could not have imagined then that you would want to sell our furniture, and take a house in Bride Street, where the rooms are like cages. If we are to live in that way let us at least leave Middlemarch.’
“我们结婚的时候，大家都觉得你的地位很高。我当时无法想象你会想卖掉我们的家具，在新娘街买一套房子，那里的房间就像笼子一样。如果我们要那样生活，我们至少要离开米德尔马契。”

‘These would be very strong considerations,’ said Lydgate, half ironically—still there was a withered paleness about his lips as he looked at his coffee, and did not drink—‘these would be very strong considerations if I did not happen to be in debt.’
“这些将是非常强烈的考虑，”利德盖特半讽刺地说——当他看着咖啡时，他的嘴唇仍然呈现枯萎的苍白，并没有喝——“如果我不碰巧是的话，这些将是非常强烈的考虑负债累累。

‘Many persons must have been in debt in the same way, but if they are respectable, people trust them. I am sure I have heard papa say that the Torbits were in debt, and they went on very well It cannot be good to act rashly,’ said Rosamond, with serene wisdom.
“很多人肯定都以同样的方式负债累累，但如果他们受人尊敬，人们就会信任他们。我确信我听爸爸说过，托比特家族负债累累，而且他们过得很好。鲁莽行事可不好。”罗莎蒙德平静而睿智地说。

Lydgate sat paralyzed by opposing impulses: since no reasoning he could apply to Rosamond seemed likely to conquer her assent, he wanted to smash and grind some object on which he could at least produce an impression, or else to tell her brutally that he was master, and she must obey. But he not only dreaded the effect of such extremities on their mutual life—he had a growing dread of Rosamond’s quiet elusive obstinacy, which would not allow any assertion of power to be final; and again, she had touched him in a spot of keenest feeling by implying that she had been deluded with a false vision of happiness in marrying him. As to saying that he was master, it was not the fact. The very resolution to which he had wrought himself by dint of logic and honorable pride was beginning to relax under her torpedo contact. He swallowed half his cup of coffee, and then rose to go.
利德盖特因相反的冲动而瘫痪了：因为他无法向罗莎蒙德提出任何推理，似乎都不可能赢得她的同意，所以他想粉碎和研磨一些他至少可以产生印象的物体，或者残酷地告诉她他是主人，她必须服从。但他不仅担心这种极端行为会对他们共同的生活产生影响——他越来越害怕罗莎蒙德安静而难以捉摸的固执，这不允许任何权力的主张成为最终的；她再次触动了他最强烈的感情，暗示她被嫁给他的幸福幻想所欺骗。至于说他是师父，那不是事实。他凭借逻辑和光荣的自豪感下定的决心在她的鱼雷接触下开始放松。他吞下半杯咖啡，然后起身要走。

‘I may at least request that you will not go to Trumbull at present— until it has been seen that there are no other means,’ said Rosamond. Although she was not subject to much fear, she felt it safer not to betray that she had written to Sir Godwin. ‘Promise me that you will not go to him for a few weeks, or without telling me.’
“我至少可以请求你目前不要去特朗布尔——直到发现没有其他办法为止，”罗莎蒙德说。虽然她并没有感到太多的恐惧，但她觉得还是不要泄露她给戈德温爵士写过信的事实更安全。 “答应我，几周内你不会去找他，或者不告诉我。”

Lydgate gave a short laugh. ‘I think it is I who should exact a promise that you will do nothing without telling me,’ he said, turning his eyes sharply upon her, and then moving to the door.
利德盖特短促地笑了一声。 “我想我应该向她保证，你不会在没有告诉我的情况下做任何事情，”他说，目光锐利地转向她，然后向门口走去。

‘You remember that we are going to dine at papa’s,’ said Rosamond, wishing that he should turn and make a more thorough concession to her. But he only said ‘Oh yes,’ impatiently, and went away. She held it to be very odious in him that he did not think the painful propositions he had had to make to her were enough, without showing so unpleasant a temper. And when she put the moderate request that he would defer going to Trumbull again, it was cruel in him not to assure her of what he meant to do. She was convinced of her having acted in every way for the best; and each grating or angry speech of Lydgate’s served only as an addition to the register of offences in her mind. Poor Rosamond for months had begun to associate her husband with feelings of disappointment, and the terribly inflexible relation of marriage had lost its charm of encouraging delightful dreams. It had freed her from the disagreeables of her father’s house, but it had not given her everything that she had wished and hoped. The Lydgate with whom she had been in love had been a group of airy conditions for her, most of which had disappeared, while their place had been taken by every-day details which must be lived through slowly from hour to hour, not floated through with a rapid selection of favorable aspects. The habits of Lydgate’s profession, his home preoccupation with scientific subjects, which seemed to her almost like a morbid vampire’s taste, his peculiar views of things which had never entered into the dialogue of courtship— all these continually alienating influences, even without the fact of his having placed himself at a disadvantage in the town, and without that first shock of revelation about Dover’s debt, would have made his presence dull to her. There was another presence which ever since the early days of her marriage, until four months ago, had been an agreeable excitement, but that was gone: Rosamond would not confess to herself how much the consequent blank had to do with her utter ennui; and it seemed to her (perhaps she was right) that an invitation to Quallingham, and an opening for Lydgate to settle elsewhere than in Middlemarch—in London, or somewhere likely to be free from unpleasantness—would satisfy her quite well, and make her indifferent to the absence of Will Ladislaw, towards whom she felt some resentment for his exaltation of Mrs. Casaubon.
“你记得我们要在爸爸家吃饭，”罗莎蒙德说道，希望他能转身对她做出更彻底的让步。但他只是不耐烦地说了句“哦，是的”，然后就走了。她认为他非常可恶，因为他认为自己必须向她提出的痛苦建议还不够，还没有表现出如此令人不快的脾气。当她温和地请求他推迟再次去特朗布尔时，他没有向她保证他打算做什么，这对他来说是残酷的。她确信自己所做的一切都是为了最好的结果。利德盖特的每一次刺耳或愤怒的言论都只是在她的脑海中增加了一些冒犯行为。几个月来，可怜的罗莎蒙德开始将她的丈夫与失望的感觉联系在一起，极其僵化的婚姻关系也失去了鼓励美好梦想的魅力。它使她摆脱了父亲家里的不愉快，但并没有给她带来她所希望和希望的一切。她所爱的利德盖特对她来说是一群虚无缥缈的环境，其中大部分已经消失，取而代之的是日常细节，这些细节必须一个小时一个小时地慢慢经历，而不是飘过。快速选择有利的方面。利德盖特的职业习惯，他在家对科学科目的痴迷，在她看来几乎就像病态吸血鬼的品味，他对从未进入求爱对话的事物的独特看法——所有这些不断疏远的影响，即使没有事实他让自己在镇上处于不利地位，如果不是第一次得知多佛欠债的消息，她就会觉得他的存在索然无味。 还有另一种存在，从她结婚之初，直到四个月前，一直是令人愉快的兴奋，但那已经消失了：罗莎蒙德不会向自己承认，随之而来的空白与她彻底的厌倦有多大关系；在她看来（也许她是对的），邀请奎林厄姆，并为利德盖特提供一个在米德尔马契以外的地方定居的机会——在伦敦，或者可能没有不愉快的地方——会让她非常满意，并使她她对威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的缺席漠不关心，她对他对卡苏邦夫人的高举感到有些怨恨。

That was the state of things with Lydgate and Rosamond on the New Year’s Day when they dined at her father’s, she looking mildly neutral towards him in remembrance of his ill-tempered behavior at breakfast, and he carrying a much deeper effect from the inward conflict in which that morning scene was only one of many epochs. His flushed effort while talking to Mr. Farebrother—his effort after the cynical pretence that all ways of getting money are essentially the same, and that chance has an empire which reduces choice to a fool’s illusion—was but the symptom of a wavering resolve, a benumbed response to the old stimuli of enthusiasm.
这就是元旦那天利德盖特和罗莎蒙德在她父亲家里吃饭时的情况，她对他表现出温和的中立态度，因为她记得他在早餐时的脾气暴躁，而他的内心冲突给他带来了更深层次的影响。那个早晨的场景只是众多时代之一。他在与费雷布拉泽先生交谈时脸红的努力——他的努力是在愤世嫉俗地假装所有赚钱的方式本质上都是一样的，而机会有一个帝国，将选择减少到傻瓜的幻想——只不过是决心动摇的症状。对旧的热情刺激的麻木反应。

What was he to do? He saw even more keenly than Rosamond did the dreariness of taking her into the small house in Bride Street, where she would have scanty furniture around her and discontent within: a life of privation and life with Rosamond were two images which had become more and more irreconcilable ever since the threat of privation had disclosed itself. But even if his resolves had forced the two images into combination, the useful preliminaries to that hard change were not visibly within reach. And though he had not given the promise which his wife had asked for, he did not go again to Trumbull. He even began to think of taking a rapid journey to the North and seeing Sir Godwin. He had once believed that nothing would urge him into making an application for money to his uncle, but he had not then known the full pressure of alternatives yet more disagreeable. He could not depend on the effect of a letter; it was only in an interview, however disagreeable this might be to himself, that he could give a thorough explanation and could test the effectiveness of kinship. No sooner had Lydgate begun to represent this step to himself as the easiest than there was a reaction of anger that he—he who had long ago determined to live aloof from such abject calculations, such self-interested anxiety about the inclinations and the pockets of men with whom he had been proud to have no aims in common—should have fallen not simply to their level, but to the level of soliciting them.
他该怎么办？他比罗莎蒙德更敏锐地看到了带她走进布莱德街那间小房子的沉闷，在那里她周围的家具很少，内心不满：贫困的生活和与罗莎蒙德的生活是两个越来越强烈的形象。自从贫困的威胁暴露出来以来，这种矛盾就一直是不可调和的。但即使他的决心迫使这两个图像结合在一起，但这一艰难改变的有用的准备工作显然还遥不可及。尽管他没有做出妻子所要求的承诺，但他没有再去特朗布尔。他甚至开始考虑快速前往北方，去见见戈德温爵士。他曾经相信没有什么会促使他向叔叔申请金钱，但他当时并不知道其他选择的全部压力，而且更令人不快。他不能依赖一封信的效果；只有在接受采访时，无论这对他自己来说有多么不愉快，他才能给出彻底的解释，才能检验亲属关系的有效性。利德盖特一开始对自己说这一步是最简单的，他就感到愤怒，因为他——他很久以前就决定远离这种卑鄙的算计，这种对个人倾向和口袋的自私焦虑。他曾经为自己没有共同目标而自豪的那些人，不应该仅仅落入他们的水平，而应该落入招揽他们的水平。

CHAPTER LXV
第六十五章

‘One of us two must bowen douteless,
“我们两个人中的一个必须毫无疑问地鲍恩，

And, sith a man is more reasonable
而且，男人更通情达理

Than woman is, ye [men] moste be suffrable.
与女人相比，你们[男人]最容易忍受。

—CHAUCER: Canterbury Tales.
——乔叟：《坎特伯雷故事集》。

The bias of human nature to be slow in correspondence triumphs even over the present quickening in the general pace of things: what wonder then that in 1832 old Sir Godwin Lydgate was slow to write a letter which was of consequence to others rather than to himself? Nearly three weeks of the new year were gone, and Rosamond, awaiting an answer to her winning appeal, was every day disappointed. Lydgate, in total ignorance of her expectations, was seeing the bills come in, and feeling that Dover’s use of his advantage over other creditors was imminent. He had never mentioned to Rosamond his brooding purpose of going to Quallingham: he did not want to admit what would appear to her a concession to her wishes after indignant refusal, until the last moment; but he was really expecting to set off soon. A slice of the railway would enable him to manage the whole journey and back in four days.
人性中迟缓的通信倾向甚至战胜了当今事物普遍节奏的加快：那么，1832 年，老戈德温·利德盖特爵士写一封对别人而不是对他自己来说重要的信时，有什么奇怪的呢？新年已经过去了近三个星期，罗莎蒙德在等待她获胜上诉的答复时，每天都感到失望。利德盖特完全不知道她的期望，看到账单进来，并感到多佛即将利用他相对于其他债权人的优势。他从来没有向罗莎蒙德提起他去奎林厄姆的深思熟虑的目的：直到最后一刻，他都不想承认在她愤怒的拒绝之后，他认为这似乎是对她愿望的让步；但他不想承认这一点。但他真的很期待很快就出发。铁路的一段可以让他在四天内完成整个旅程并返回。

But one morning after Lydgate had gone out, a letter came addressed to him, which Rosamond saw clearly to be from Sir Godwin. She was full of hope. Perhaps there might be a particular note to her enclosed; but Lydgate was naturally addressed on the question of money or other aid, and the fact that he was written to, nay, the very delay in writing at all, seemed to certify that the answer was thoroughly compliant. She was too much excited by these thoughts to do anything but light stitching in a warm corner of the dining-room, with the outside of this momentous letter lying on the table before her. About twelve she heard her husband’s step in the passage, and tripping to open the door, she said in her lightest tones, ‘Tertius, come in here— here is a letter for you.’
但利德盖特出去后的一天早上，一封写给他的信收到了，罗莎蒙德清楚地看出这封信是戈德温爵士寄来的。她充满了希望。或许附上一张给她的特别便条；但利德盖特很自然地谈到了金钱或其他援助的问题，事实上，他是写信给他的，不，甚至是迟迟没有写信，似乎证明了他的答复是完全顺从的。这些想法让她太兴奋了，除了在餐厅温暖的角落里轻轻缝合之外，她什么也做不了，这封重要信件的外面就放在她面前的桌子上。十二点左右，她听到丈夫在过道里的脚步声，她绊倒去开门，用最轻松的声音说：“特蒂乌斯，进来吧——这是给你的一封信。”

‘Ah?’ he said, not taking off his hat, but just turning her round within his arm to walk towards the spot where the letter lay. ‘My uncle Godwin!’ he exclaimed, while Rosamond reseated herself, and watched him as he opened the letter. She had expected him to be surprised.
“啊？”他没有摘下帽子，只是将她搂在怀里，朝放信的地方走去。 “我的戈德温叔叔！”他喊道，罗莎蒙德重新坐下，看着他打开信。她本来以为他会感到惊讶。

While Lydgate’s eyes glanced rapidly over the brief letter, she saw his face, usually of a pale brown, taking on a dry whiteness; with nostrils and lips quivering he tossed down the letter before her, and said violently—
当利德盖特的眼睛快速扫过那封简短的信时，她看到他通常是浅棕色的脸变成了干燥的白色；他鼻孔和嘴唇都在颤抖，把信扔到她面前，粗暴地说——

‘It will be impossible to endure life with you, if you will always be acting secretly—acting in opposition to me and hiding your actions.’
“如果你总是秘密行事——与我对立并隐藏你的行为，那么你就不可能忍受和你一起生活。”

He checked his speech and turned his back on her—then wheeled round and walked about, sat down, and got up again restlessly, grasping hard the objects deep down in his pockets. He was afraid of saying something irremediably cruel.
他核对了一下自己的措辞，转身背对着她——然后转身走来走去，坐了下来，又不安地站起来，用力地抓着口袋深处的东西。他害怕说出一些无法挽回的残酷的话。

Rosamond too had changed color as she read. The letter ran in this way:—
罗莎蒙德读着读着，脸色也变了。这封信是这样写的：——

‘DEAR TERTIUS,—Don’t set your wife to write to me when you have anything to ask. It is a roundabout wheedling sort of thing which I should not have credited you with. I never choose to write to a woman on matters of business. As to my supplying you with a thousand pounds, or only half that sum, I can do nothing of the sort. My own family drains me to the last penny. With two younger sons and three daughters, I am not likely to have cash to spare. You seem to have got through your own money pretty quickly, and to have made a mess where you are; the sooner you go somewhere else the better. But I have nothing to do with men of your profession, and can’t help you there. I did the best I could for you as guardian, and let you have your own way in taking to medicine. You might have gone into the army or the Church. Your money would have held out for that, and there would have been a surer ladder before you. Your uncle Charles has had a grudge against you for not going into his profession, but not I. I have always wished you well, but you must consider yourself on your own legs entirely now.
“亲爱的特蒂斯，——当你有什么要问的时候，不要让你的妻子写信给我。这是一种迂回的哄骗行为，我不应该把这归功于你。我从不选择写信给女人谈生意。至于我给你一千英镑，或者只给你一半，我无能为力。我自己的家人耗尽了我的最后一分钱。我有两个小儿子和三个女儿，不太可能有多余的现金。你似乎很快就花光了自己的钱，却把自己的处境搞得一团糟；你越早去别的地方越好。但我和你这个职业没有任何关系，也帮不了你。我以监护人的身份为你尽了最大的努力，让你有自己的吃药方式。你可能已经参军或去教堂了。你的钱会坚持下去，而且在你面前会有一个更可靠的阶梯。你的查尔斯叔叔因为你没有从事他的职业而对你怀恨在心，但我却没有。我一直祝愿你一切顺利，但你现在必须考虑自己完全靠自己的力量了。

Your affectionate uncle,
你慈爱的叔叔，

GODWIN LYDGATE.’
戈德温·利德盖特。”

When Rosamond had finished reading the letter she sat quite still, with her hands folded before her, restraining any show of her keen disappointment, and intrenching herself in quiet passivity under her husband’s wrath Lydgate paused in his movements, looked at her again, and said, with biting severity—
罗莎蒙德读完信后，她一动不动地坐着，双手交叉在身前，克制住自己强烈失望的表现，在丈夫的愤怒之下，保持着安静的被动。 利德盖特停下了动作，再次看着她，说道： ，具有咬人的严重性——

‘Will this be enough to convince you of the harm you may do by secret meddling? Have you sense enough to recognize now your incompetence to judge and act for me—to interfere with your ignorance in affairs which it belongs to me to decide on?’
‘这足以让你相信秘密干预可能造成的危害吗？你现在是否有足够的意识认识到你没有能力为我判断和行动——在本应由我决定的事情上干涉你的无知？

The words were hard; but this was not the first time that Lydgate had been frustrated by her. She did not look at him, and made no reply.
这句话很难听；但这并不是利德盖特第一次对她感到沮丧。她没有看他，也没有回答。

‘I had nearly resolved on going to Quallingham. It would have cost me pain enough to do it, yet it might have been of some use. But it has been of no use for me to think of anything. You have always been counteracting me secretly. You delude me with a false assent, and then I am at the mercy of your devices. If you mean to resist every wish I express, say so and defy me. I shall at least know what I am doing then.’
“我差点就决定去夸林汉姆了。这样做会让我付出足够的痛苦，但它可能会有一些用处。但我想什么都没有用。你一直在暗中对抗我。你用虚假的同意来欺骗我，然后我就任由你的诡计摆布。如果你想抵制我表达的每一个愿望，那就直说并反抗我。那时我至少会知道我在做什么。

It is a terrible moment in young lives when the closeness of love’s bond has turned to this power of galling. In spite of Rosamond’s self-control a tear fell silently and rolled over her lips. She still said nothing; but under that quietude was hidden an intense effect: she was in such entire disgust with her husband that she wished she had never seen him. Sir Godwin’s rudeness towards her and utter want of feeling ranged him with Dover and all other creditors— disagreeable people who only thought of themselves, and did not mind how annoying they were to her. Even her father was unkind, and might have done more for them. In fact there was but one person in Rosamond’s world whom she did not regard as blameworthy, and that was the graceful creature with blond plaits and with little hands crossed before her, who had never expressed herself unbecomingly, and had always acted for the best—the best naturally being what she best liked.
当爱情的亲密纽带变成这种令人难堪的力量时，这是年轻生命中一个可怕的时刻。尽管罗莎蒙德极力克制，一滴眼泪却无声地滑落，从她的唇边滑落。她仍然什么也没说；但在这种平静之下，隐藏着一种强烈的影响：她对她的丈夫感到非常厌恶，以至于她希望自己从未见过他。戈德温爵士对她的粗鲁和完全缺乏感情，使他与多佛和所有其他债权人站在一起——这些讨厌的人只考虑自己，不介意他们对她来说有多么烦人。就连她的父亲也不友善，本来可以为他们做更多的事情。事实上，在罗莎蒙德的世界里，只有一个人是她不认为应该受到责备的，那就是那个有着金色辫子、双手交叉在她面前的优雅生物，她从来没有表现出不恰当的态度，而且总是表现得最好——最好的自然是她最喜欢的。

Lydgate pausing and looking at her began to feel that half-maddening sense of helplessness which comes over passionate people when their passion is met by an innocent-looking silence whose meek victimized air seems to put them in the wrong, and at last infects even the justest indignation with a doubt of its justice. He needed to recover the full sense that he was in the right by moderating his words.
利德盖特停下来，看着她，开始感到一种近乎疯狂的无助感，当热情的人的热情遭到看似无辜的沉默的满足时，这种无助的温顺的受害态度似乎让他们陷入了错误，最后甚至感染了他们。对其公正性的怀疑是最公正的愤慨。他需要通过缓和自己的言辞来完全恢复自己的正确感。

‘Can you not see, Rosamond,’ he began again, trying to be simply grave and not bitter, ‘that nothing can be so fatal as a want of openness and confidence between us? It has happened again and again that I have expressed a decided wish, and you have seemed to assent, yet after that you have secretly disobeyed my wish. In that way I can never know what I have to trust to. There would be some hope for us if you would admit this. Am I such an unreasonable, furious brute? Why should you not be open with me?’ Still silence.
“你难道没有看到吗，罗莎蒙德，”他又开始说道，尽量表现得严肃而不是痛苦，“没有什么比我们之间缺乏开放和信任更致命的了？”一次又一次，我表达了明确的愿望，你表面上同意了，但后来却又背地里违背了我的愿望。这样我就永远不知道我必须相信什么。如果你承认这一点，我们就会有一些希望。难道我就是这么不可理喻、狂怒的畜生吗？你为什么不应该对我敞开心扉？” 仍然是沉默。

‘Will you only say that you have been mistaken, and that I may depend on your not acting secretly in future?’ said Lydgate, urgently, but with something of request in his tone which Rosamond was quick to perceive. She spoke with coolness.
“你只能说你错了，我以后可能会相信你不会秘密行事吗？”利德盖特急切地说，但语气中带着一些请求，罗莎蒙德很快就察觉到了。她说话的语气很冷淡。

‘I cannot possibly make admissions or promises in answer to such words as you have used towards me. I have not been accustomed to language of that kind. You have spoken of my ‘secret meddling,’ and my ‘interfering ignorance,’ and my ‘false assent.’ I have never expressed myself in that way to you, and I think that you ought to apologize. You spoke of its being impossible to live with me. Certainly you have not made my life pleasant to me of late. I think it was to be expected that I should try to avert some of the hardships which our marriage has brought on me.’ Another tear fell as Rosamond ceased speaking, and she pressed it away as quietly as the first.
“我不可能承认或做出承诺来回应你对我所说的这些话。我不习惯这种语言。你谈到了我的“暗中干涉”，我的“干涉无知”，以及我的“假同意”。我从来没有以这种方式向你表达过自己的意思，我认为你应该道歉。你说不可能和我一起生活。当然，你最近并没有让我的生活变得愉快。我认为我应该尽力避免我们的婚姻给我带来的一些困难。”罗莎蒙德不再说话时，另一滴泪水落下，她像第一滴眼泪一样安静地把它擦掉。

Lydgate flung himself into a chair, feeling checkmated. What place was there in her mind for a remonstrance to lodge in? He laid down his hat, flung an arm over the back of his chair, and looked down for some moments without speaking. Rosamond had the double purchase over him of insensibility to the point of justice in his reproach, and of sensibility to the undeniable hardships now present in her married life. Although her duplicity in the affair of the house had exceeded what he knew, and had really hindered the Plymdales from knowing of it, she had no consciousness that her action could rightly be called false. We are not obliged to identify our own acts according to a strict classification, any more than the materials of our grocery and clothes. Rosamond felt that she was aggrieved, and that this was what Lydgate had to recognize.
利德盖特猛地坐到椅子上，感觉自己被将死了。她心里有什么地方可以提出抗议？他放下帽子，用一只手臂搭在椅背上，低头看了一会儿，没有说话。罗莎蒙德对他有双重的购买力，一是他对他的责备冷漠到了正义的地步，二是对她婚姻生活中目前存在的不可否认的困难很敏感。尽管她在房子的事情上的口是心非超出了他的认知，并且确实阻碍了普林代尔家族的了解，但她没有意识到她的行为可以被正确地称为虚假。我们没有义务按照严格的分类来识别我们自己的行为，就像我们的杂货和衣服的材料一样。罗莎蒙德觉得自己很委屈，这也是利德盖特必须承认的。

As for him, the need of accommodating himself to her nature, which was inflexible in proportion to its negations, held him as with pincers. He had begun to have an alarmed foresight of her irrevocable loss of love for him, and the consequent dreariness of their life. The ready fulness of his emotions made this dread alternate quickly with the first violent movements of his anger. It would assuredly have been a vain boast in him to say that he was her master.
至于他，需要让自己适应她的本性，而她的本性与它的否定成比例地不灵活，这让他像被钳子一样束缚着。他开始惊恐地预见到她将不可挽回地失去对他的爱，以及随之而来的他们生活的凄凉。他的情绪已经快要饱和了，这种恐惧很快就与他最初爆发的愤怒交替出现。如果说他是她的主人，那肯定是虚夸的。

‘You have not made my life pleasant to me of late’—‘the hardships which our marriage has brought on me’—these words were stinging his imagination as a pain makes an exaggerated dream. If he were not only to sink from his highest resolve, but to sink into the hideous fettering of domestic hate?
“你最近没有让我的生活变得愉快”——“我们的婚姻给我带来了艰辛”——这些话刺痛了他的想象力，就像痛苦造就了夸张的梦想。如果他不仅失去了最高的决心，而且陷入了家庭仇恨的可怕束缚呢？

‘Rosamond,’ he said, turning his eyes on her with a melancholy look, ‘you should allow for a man’s words when he is disappointed and provoked. You and I cannot have opposite interests. I cannot part my happiness from yours. If I am angry with you, it is that you seem not to see how any concealment divides us. How could I wish to make anything hard to you either by my words or conduct? When I hurt you, I hurt part of my own life. I should never be angry with you if you would be quite open with me.’
“罗莎蒙德，”他说道，目光忧郁地转向她，“你应该考虑到一个男人在失望和被激怒时所说的话。你和我不能有相反的利益。我无法将我的幸福与你的幸福分开。如果说我对你生气的话，那就是你似乎没有看到任何隐瞒都会如何分裂我们。我怎么可能希望通过我的言语或行为让你为难呢？当我伤害你时，我也伤害了自己生命的一部分。如果你能对我开诚布公的话，我永远不会生你的气。

‘I have only wished to prevent you from hurrying us into wretchedness without any necessity,’ said Rosamond, the tears coming again from a softened feeling now that her husband had softened. ‘It is so very hard to be disgraced here among all the people we know, and to live in such a miserable way. I wish I had died with the baby.’
“我只是想阻止你毫无必要地让我们陷入困境。”罗莎蒙德说，她的丈夫已经软化了，她的感情又软化了，眼泪又流了下来。 “在这里，在我们认识的所有人面前丢脸，过着如此悲惨的生活，真是太难受了。我希望我和孩子一起死。”

She spoke and wept with that gentleness which makes such words and tears omnipotent over a loving-hearted man. Lydgate drew his chair near to hers and pressed her delicate head against his cheek with his powerful tender hand. He only caressed her; he did not say anything; for what was there to say? He could not promise to shield her from the dreaded wretchedness, for he could see no sure means of doing so. When he left her to go out again, he told himself that it was ten times harder for her than for him: he had a life away from home, and constant appeals to his activity on behalf of others. He wished to excuse everything in her if he could— but it was inevitable that in that excusing mood he should think of her as if she were an animal of another and feebler species. Nevertheless she had mastered him.
她说话和哭泣时都带着温柔，这使得这样的言语和眼泪对于一个充满爱心的男人来说是无所不能的。利德盖特把他的椅子拉到她的身边，用他有力而温柔的手将她娇嫩的头按在他的脸颊上。他只是爱抚她；他什么也没说；有什么好说的呢？他无法保证保护她免受可怕的不幸，因为他看不出有什么可靠的方法可以做到这一点。当他离开她再次出去时，他告诉自己，这对她来说比他困难十倍：他过着远离家乡的生活，并且不断地为他人呼吁他的活动。如果可以的话，他希望原谅她身上的一切——但在那种原谅的心情下，他不可避免地会把她视为另一个更弱种的动物。尽管如此，她还是征服了他。

CHAPTER LXVI
第六十六章

‘Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,
“受到诱惑是一回事，埃斯卡勒斯，

Another thing to fall.’
又一件事要落下。

—Measure for Measure.
——一报还一报。

Lydgate certainly had good reason to reflect on the service his practice did him in counteracting his personal cares. He had no longer free energy enough for spontaneous research and speculative thinking, but by the bedside of patients, the direct external calls on his judgment and sympathies brought the added impulse needed to draw him out of himself. It was not simply that beneficent harness of routine which enables silly men to live respectably and unhappy men to live calmly—it was a perpetual claim on the immediate fresh application of thought, and on the consideration of another’s need and trial. Many of us looking back through life would say that the kindest man we have ever known has been a medical man, or perhaps that surgeon whose fine tact, directed by deeply informed perception, has come to us in our need with a more sublime beneficence than that of miracle-workers. Some of that twice-blessed mercy was always with Lydgate in his work at the Hospital or in private houses, serving better than any opiate to quiet and sustain him under his anxieties and his sense of mental degeneracy.
利德盖特当然有充分的理由反思他的做法为他消除个人忧虑所提供的服务。他不再有足够的自由能量来进行自发的研究和推测性思考，但在病人的床边，外部对他的判断力和同情心的直接召唤给他带来了额外的冲动，使他摆脱了自我。这不仅仅是一种仁慈的日常安排，它使愚蠢的人能够体面地生活，让不幸的人平静地生活——它是对立即新的思想应用、对他人的需要和考验的考虑的永久要求。我们中的许多人回顾一生都会说，我们所认识的最仁慈的人是一位医生，或者也许是一位外科医生，他的机智在深刻的洞察力指导下，在我们需要帮助时以比医生更崇高的仁慈来帮助我们。创造奇迹的人。利德盖特在医院或私人住宅的工作中总是有一些双重祝福的怜悯，比任何鸦片都更能帮助他平静和维持他的焦虑和精神堕落感。

Mr. Farebrother’s suspicion as to the opiate was true, however. Under the first galling pressure of foreseen difficulties, and the first perception that his marriage, if it were not to be a yoked loneliness, must be a state of effort to go on loving without too much care about being loved, he had once or twice tried a dose of opium. But he had no hereditary constitutional craving after such transient escapes from the hauntings of misery. He was strong, could drink a great deal of wine, but did not care about it; and when the men round him were drinking spirits, he took sugar and water, having a contemptuous pity even for the earliest stages of excitement from drink. It was the same with gambling. He had looked on at a great deal of gambling in Paris, watching it as if it had been a disease. He was no more tempted by such winning than he was by drink. He had said to himself that the only winning he cared for must be attained by a conscious process of high, difficult combination tending towards a beneficent result. The power he longed for could not be represented by agitated fingers clutching a heap of coin, or by the half-barbarous, half-idiotic triumph in the eyes of a man who sweeps within his arms the ventures of twenty chapfallen companions.
然而，费雷布拉泽先生对阿片类药物的怀疑是正确的。在预见到的困难所带来的第一个令人恼火的压力下，在第一次意识到他的婚姻如果不是一种束缚的孤独，就必须是一种努力继续爱而不太在意被爱的状态时，他有一两次尝试了一剂鸦片。但在短暂摆脱痛苦之后，他并没有继承宪法的渴望。他身体强壮，能喝很多酒，但并不在意；当他周围的人喝烈酒时，他就拿糖和水，甚至对饮酒带来的最初兴奋阶段也抱有轻蔑的怜悯。赌博也是如此。他目睹了巴黎的大量赌博活动，仿佛这是一种疾病。他对这种胜利的诱惑并不比对酒精的诱惑更大。他对自己说，他所关心的唯一胜利必须通过有意识的过程来实现，将高难度的组合趋向于有益的结果。他所渴望的力量无法用紧握一堆硬币的激动的手指来代表，也不能用一个将二十个失败同伴的冒险抱在怀里的人眼中半野蛮半愚蠢的胜利来代表。

But just as he had tried opium, so his thought now began to turn upon gambling—not with appetite for its excitement, but with a sort of wistful inward gaze after that easy way of getting money, which implied no asking and brought no responsibility. If he had been in London or Paris at that time, it is probable that such thoughts, seconded by opportunity, would have taken him into a gambling-house, no longer to watch the gamblers, but to watch with them in kindred eagerness. Repugnance would have been surmounted by the immense need to win, if chance would be kind enough to let him. An incident which happened not very long after that airy notion of getting aid from his uncle had been excluded, was a strong sign of the effect that might have followed any extant opportunity of gambling.
但就像他尝试过鸦片一样，他的思想现在开始转向赌博——不是为了刺激的欲望，而是一种渴望的内心凝视，因为这种简单的赚钱方式意味着不要求任何要求，也不带来任何责任。如果他当时在伦敦或巴黎，很可能这种想法加上机会，就会带他走进赌场，不再是观看赌徒，而是怀着同样的热切与他们一起观看。如果机会足够好的话，对胜利的巨大渴望就会克服反感。在他排除了从叔叔那里获得援助的空想之后不久发生的一件事，是一个强烈的迹象，表明任何现有的赌博机会都可能产生影响。

The billiard-room at the Green Dragon was the constant resort of a certain set, most of whom, like our acquaintance Mr. Bambridge, were regarded as men of pleasure. It was here that poor Fred Vincy had made part of his memorable debt, having lost money in betting, and been obliged to borrow of that gay companion. It was generally known in Middlemarch that a good deal of money was lost and won in this way; and the consequent repute of the Green Dragon as a place of dissipation naturally heightened in some quarters the temptation to go there. Probably its regular visitants, like the initiates of freemasonry, wished that there were something a little more tremendous to keep to themselves concerning it; but they were not a closed community, and many decent seniors as well as juniors occasionally turned into the billiard-room to see what was going on. Lydgate, who had the muscular aptitude for billiards, and was fond of the game, had once or twice in the early days after his arrival in Middlemarch taken his turn with the cue at the Green Dragon; but afterwards he had no leisure for the game, and no inclination for the socialities there. One evening, however, he had occasion to seek Mr. Bambridge at that resort. The horsedealer had engaged to get him a customer for his remaining good horse, for which Lydgate had determined to substitute a cheap hack, hoping by this reduction of style to get perhaps twenty pounds; and he cared now for every small sum, as a help towards feeding the patience of his tradesmen. To run up to the billiard-room, as he was passing, would save time.
绿龙酒店的台球室是某些人常去的地方，他们中的大多数人，就像我们的熟人班布里奇先生一样，被认为是享乐之人。正是在这里，可怜的弗雷德·文西（Fred Vincy）在赌博中输了钱，欠下了他难忘的债务，不得不向那个同性恋同伴借钱。在米德尔马契，众所周知，通过这种方式输掉了很多钱，也赢得了很多钱。随之而来的“绿龙”作为放荡之地的名声自然增强了某些人前往那里的诱惑。也许它的常客，就像共济会的发起人一样，希望有一些更重大的事情可以保密；但他们并不是一个封闭的社区，许多体面的老年人和年轻人偶尔会跑到台球室看看发生了什么。利德盖特有着强健的台球天赋，并且热爱这项运动，在抵达米德尔马奇后的最初几天，他曾在绿龙球场用球杆打过一两次球。但后来他就没有闲暇去玩游戏，也没有兴趣参加那里的社交活动了。然而，有一天晚上，他有机会到那个度假胜地去找班布里奇先生。马商已经答应为他剩下的好马找一个顾客，利德盖特决定用一匹廉价的马匹来代替，希望通过这种风格的减少，可以赚到大约二十英镑；但是，他的马匹却被卖掉了。他现在关心每一笔小钱，以帮助增强商人的耐心。当他经过时跑到台球室会节省时间。

Mr. Bambridge was not yet come, bat would be sure to arrive by-and-by, said his friend Mr. Horrock; and Lydgate stayed, playing a game for the sake of passing the time. That evening he had the peculiar light in the eyes and the unusual vivacity which had been once noticed in him by Mr. Farebrother. The exceptional fact of his presence was much noticed in the room, where there was a good deal of Middlemarch company; and several lookers-on, as well as some of the players, were betting with animation. Lydgate was playing well, and felt confident; the bets were dropping round him, and with a swift glancing thought of the probable gain which might double the sum he was saving from his horse, he began to bet on his own play, and won again and again. Mr. Bambridge had come in, but Lydgate did not notice him. He was not only excited with his play, but visions were gleaming on him of going the next day to Brassing, where there was gambling on a grander scale to be had, and where, by one powerful snatch at the devil’s bait, he might carry it off without the hook, and buy his rescue from his daily solicitings.
班布里奇先生还没有来，蝙蝠很快就会到达，他的朋友霍罗克先生说；利德盖特留下来，玩游戏来打发时间。那天晚上，他的眼睛里闪烁着奇特的光芒，表现出一种不同寻常的活力，费雷布拉泽先生曾在他身上注意到过这一点。他的出现在房间里引起了很多人的注意，那里有很多米德尔马契的人。几名围观的人，以及一些玩家，都在用动画的方式下注。利德盖特打得很好，而且很有信心。他周围的赌注都在下注，他迅速瞥见了可能的收益，这可能会使他从马身上省下来的钱翻倍，他开始赌自己的赌注，并一次又一次地获胜。班布里奇先生进来了，但利德盖特没有注意到他。他不仅对自己的比赛感到兴奋，而且还梦想着第二天就去布拉辛，那里有更大规模的赌博，在那里，只要抓住魔鬼的诱饵，他就可以赢得胜利。不劳而获，并从他的日常拉拢中收买他的救援。

He was still winning when two new visitors entered. One of them was a young Hawley, just come from his law studies in town, and the other was Fred Vincy, who had spent several evenings of late at this old haunt of his. Young Hawley, an accomplished billiard-player, brought a cool fresh hand to the cue. But Fred Vincy, startled at seeing Lydgate, and astonished to see him betting with an excited air, stood aside, and kept out of the circle round the table.
当两名新访客进来时，他仍在获胜。其中一个是年轻的霍利，刚刚从镇上学习法律，另一个是弗雷德·文西，他最近几个晚上都在他的老地方呆过。年轻的霍利是一位多才多艺的台球运动员，他为球杆带来了冷静而新鲜的手感。但弗莱德·文西看到利德盖特大吃一惊，又惊讶地发现他下注时神情激动，他站在一旁，避开了桌子周围的圈子。

Fred had been rewarding resolution by a little laxity of late. He had been working heartily for six months at all outdoor occupations under Mr. Garth, and by dint of severe practice had nearly mastered the defects of his handwriting, this practice being, perhaps, a little the less severe that it was often carried on in the evening at Mr. Garth’s under the eyes of Mary. But the last fortnight Mary had been staying at Lowick Parsonage with the ladies there, during Mr. Farebrother’s residence in Middlemarch, where he was carrying out some parochial plans; and Fred, not seeing anything more agreeable to do, had turned into the Green Dragon, partly to play at billiards, partly to taste the old flavor of discourse about horses, sport, and things in general, considered from a point of view which was not strenuously correct. He had not been out hunting once this season, had had no horse of his own to ride, and had gone from place to place chiefly with Mr. Garth in his gig, or on the sober cob which Mr. Garth could lend him. It was a little too bad, Fred began to think, that he should be kept in the traces with more severity than if he had been a clergyman. ‘I will tell you what, Mistress Mary—it will be rather harder work to learn surveying and drawing plans than it would have been to write sermons,’ he had said, wishing her to appreciate what he went through for her sake; ‘and as to Hercules and Theseus, they were nothing to me. They had sport, and never learned to write a bookkeeping hand.’ And now, Mary being out of the way for a little while, Fred, like any other strong dog who cannot slip his collar, had pulled up the staple of his chain and made a small escape, not of course meaning to go fast or far. There could be no reason why he should not play at billiards, but he was determined not to bet. As to money just now, Fred had in his mind the heroic project of saving almost all of the eighty pounds that Mr. Garth offered him, and returning it, which he could easily do by giving up all futile money-spending, since he had a superfluous stock of clothes, and no expense in his board. In that way he could, in one year, go a good way towards repaying the ninety pounds of which he had deprived Mrs. Garth, unhappily at a time when she needed that sum more than she did now. Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that on this evening, which was the fifth of his recent visits to the billiard-room, Fred had, not in his pocket, but in his mind, the ten pounds which he meant to reserve for himself from his half-year’s salary (having before him the pleasure of carrying thirty to Mrs. Garth when Mary was likely to be come home again)— he had those ten pounds in his mind as a fund from which he might risk something, if there were a chance of a good bet. Why? Well, when sovereigns were flying about, why shouldn’t he catch a few? He would never go far along that road again; but a man likes to assure himself, and men of pleasure generally, what he could do in the way of mischief if he chose, and that if he abstains from making himself ill, or beggaring himself, or talking with the utmost looseness which the narrow limits of human capacity will allow, it is not because he is a spooney. Fred did not enter into formal reasons, which are a very artificial, inexact way of representing the tingling returns of old habit, and the caprices of young blood: but there was lurking in him a prophetic sense that evening, that when he began to play he should also begin to bet—that he should enjoy some punch-drinking, and in general prepare himself for feeling ‘rather seedy’ in the morning. It is in such indefinable movements that action often begins.
弗雷德最近表现得有点松懈，但他的决心得到了回报。他在加思先生的指导下，在所有户外职业中热心工作了六个月，凭借严格的练习，几乎已经掌握了他的笔迹缺陷，这种练习也许比在加斯先生经常进行的练习稍微不那么严格。那天晚上，在玛丽的注视下，在加斯先生家里。但最近两周，费雷布拉泽先生在米德尔马奇的住所期间，玛丽一直和那里的女士们住在洛伊克牧师公馆，他在那里执行一些教区计划；弗雷德看不出有什么更愉快的事可做，就变成了绿龙，部分是为了打台球，部分是为了尝尝关于马、运动和一般事物的旧式话语，从一种观点来考虑。不太正确。这个季节他一次也没有出去打猎，也没有自己的马可以骑，主要是和加斯先生一起骑着马车，或者骑着加斯先生借给他的清醒的玉米棒从一个地方到另一个地方。弗雷德开始想，这有点太糟糕了，他应该比他是一名牧师更严厉地被留在痕迹中。 “我告诉你吧，玛丽小姐——学习测量和绘制平面图比写布道书要困难得多，”他说，希望她能欣赏他为她所经历的一切； ‘至于赫拉克勒斯和忒修斯，他们对我来说毫无意义。他们有运动，但从来没有学会写簿记手。”现在，玛丽离开了一会儿，弗雷德，就像其他无法脱掉项圈的强壮狗一样，拉起了他链子的订书钉，进行了一次小小的逃脱，当然并不是要走得快或走得远。 他没有理由不打台球，但他坚决不打赌。至于刚才的钱，弗雷德心里有一个英雄计划，把加斯先生给他的八十英镑几乎全部存起来，然后归还，他可以很容易地做到这一点，只要放弃所有无用的金钱支出，因为他已经多余的衣服，他的膳食也没有开支。这样，他就可以在一年之内，很好地偿还他剥夺了加斯夫人的九十英镑，不幸的是，当时她比现在更需要这笔钱。然而，必须承认的是，今天晚上，这是他最近第五次来到台球室，弗雷德并没有在口袋里，而是在他的脑海里，他打算从他的口袋里为自己保留十英镑。半年的工资（当玛丽可能再次回家时，他很乐意带三十英镑给加斯太太）——他把这十英镑当作一笔基金，如果有的话，他可以用它冒险。一个好的赌注的机会。为什么？好吧，既然金币飞来飞去，他为什么不抓一些呢？他再也不会沿着那条路走得太远了；但是，一个人和一般的享乐者一样，喜欢向自己保证，如果他选择的话，他可以以恶作剧的方式做些什么，并且如果他不让自己生病，或者乞讨自己，或者以狭隘的人所要求的最宽松的态度​​说话，那么他可以做些什么。人类能力的极限会允许，这并不是因为他是个痴迷者。 弗雷德没有进入正式的原因，这是一种非常人为的、不准确的方式，代表了旧习惯的刺痛回归和年轻血液的反复无常：但那天晚上他内心潜藏着一种预言感，当他开始演奏时他还应该开始打赌——他应该喝点潘趣酒，并为早上感觉“相当邋遢”做好准备。正是在这种难以定义的运动中，行动常常开始。

But the last thing likely to have entered Fred’s expectation was that he should see his brother-in-law Lydgate—of whom he had never quite dropped the old opinion that he was a prig, and tremendously conscious of his superiority—looking excited and betting, just as he himself might have done. Fred felt a shock greater than he could quite account for by the vague knowledge that Lydgate was in debt, and that his father had refused to help him; and his own inclination to enter into the play was suddenly checked. It was a strange reversal of attitudes: Fred’s blond face and blue eyes, usually bright and careless, ready to give attention to anything that held out a promise of amusement, looking involuntarily grave and almost embarrassed as if by the sight of something unfitting; while Lydgate, who had habitually an air of self-possessed strength, and a certain meditativeness that seemed to lie behind his most observant attention, was acting, watching, speaking with that excited narrow consciousness which reminds one of an animal with fierce eyes and retractile claws.
但弗雷德最不可能想到的事情是，他会看到他的姐夫利德盖特——他从未完全放弃他的旧观念，认为他是一个一本正经的人，并且非常意识到自己的优越性——看起来很兴奋，并且打赌，就像他自己可能做的那样。当弗雷德模糊地知道利德盖特负债累累，而且他的父亲拒绝帮助他时，他感到震惊得难以解释。他自己的入戏意愿突然受到抑制。这是一种奇怪的态度逆转：弗雷德的金发碧眼，通常明亮而粗心，随时准备关注任何有望带来娱乐的东西，看起来不由自主地严肃，几乎尴尬，好像看到了一些不合适的东西；而利德盖特则习惯性地表现出一种泰然自若的力量，并且在他最敏锐的注意力背后似乎隐藏着某种冥想，他在行动、观察、说话，带着一种兴奋的狭隘意识，这让人想起一种目光凶猛、缩回的动物。爪子。

Lydgate, by betting on his own strokes, had won sixteen pounds; but young Hawley’s arrival had changed the poise of things. He made first-rate strokes himself, and began to bet against Lydgate’s strokes, the strain of whose nerves was thus changed from simple confidence in his own movements to defying another person’s doubt in them. The defiance was more exciting than the confidence, but it was less sure. He continued to bet on his own play, but began often to fail. Still he went on, for his mind was as utterly narrowed into that precipitous crevice of play as if he had been the most ignorant lounger there. Fred observed that Lydgate was losing fast, and found himself in the new situation of puzzling his brains to think of some device by which, without being offensive, he could withdraw Lydgate’s attention, and perhaps suggest to him a reason for quitting the room. He saw that others were observing Lydgate’s strange unlikeness to himself, and it occurred to him that merely to touch his elbow and call him aside for a moment might rouse him from his absorption. He could think of nothing cleverer than the daring improbability of saying that he wanted to see Rosy, and wished to know if she were at home this evening; and he was going desperately to carry out this weak device, when a waiter came up to him with a message, saying that Mr. Farebrother was below, and begged to speak with him.
利德盖特赌自己的击球，赢得了十六英镑。但年轻的霍利的到来改变了一切。他自己打出了一流的击球，并开始与利德盖特的击球打赌，利德盖特的神经紧张因此从对自己动作的简单自信转变为无视别人对自己动作的怀疑。反抗比自信更令人兴奋，但不太确定。他继续对自己的玩法下注，但开始经常失败。他仍然继续说下去，因为他的思维完全被狭窄的游戏缝隙所束缚，就好像他是那里最无知的闲逛者一样。弗雷德观察到利德盖特正在快速失败，他发现自己陷入了新的境地，他的大脑困惑不已，他想出一些方法，通过这种方法，他可以在不冒犯他人的情况下转移利德盖特的注意力，也许还可以向他提出退出房间的理由。他看到其他人都在观察利德盖特与自己的奇怪的不同之处，他突然想到，只要碰一下他的肘部，把他叫到一边，就可能让他从专注中醒来。他想不出比大胆地说他想见罗西，并想知道她今晚是否在家更聪明的事了。他正拼命地去执行这个微弱的装置，这时一个侍者向他走来，告诉他费雷布拉泽先生在下面，并请求与他交谈。

Fred was surprised, not quite comfortably, but sending word that he would be down immediately, he went with a new impulse up to Lydgate, said, ‘Can I speak to you a moment?’ and drew him aside.
弗雷德很惊讶，不太舒服，但他传达了他将立即下来的消息，他带着一种新的冲动走向利德盖特，说：“我可以和你谈谈吗？”然后把他拉到一边。

‘Farebrother has just sent up a message to say that he wants to speak to me. He is below. I thought you might like to know he was there, if you had anything to say to him.’
‘费布雷兄弟刚刚发了一条消息说他想和我说话。他在下面。我想你可能想知道他在那儿，如果你有什么话要对他说的话。

Fred had simply snatched up this pretext for speaking, because he could not say, ‘You are losing confoundedly, and are making everybody stare at you; you had better come away.’ But inspiration could hardly have served him better. Lydgate had not before seen that Fred was present, and his sudden appearance with an announcement of Mr. Farebrother had the effect of a sharp concussion.
弗雷德只是抓住了这个借口说话，因为他不能说，‘你输得很惨，让所有人都盯着你看；’你最好走开。”但是灵感对他来说再好不过了。利德盖特之前并没有看到弗雷德在场，他突然出现并宣布费雷布拉泽先生的消息造成了剧烈的脑震荡。

‘No, no,’ said Lydgate; ‘I have nothing particular to say to him. But—the game is up—I must be going—I came in just to see Bambridge.’
“不，不，”利德盖特说。 “我没有什么特别要对他说的。但是——比赛结束了——我必须走了——我进来只是为了看看班布里奇。”

‘Bambridge is over there, but he is making a row—I don’t think he’s ready for business. Come down with me to Farebrother. I expect he is going to blow me up, and you will shield me,’ said Fred, with some adroitness.
“班布里奇在那边，但他正在大吵大闹——我认为他还没有准备好做生意。跟我一起去费雷兄弟吧。我预计他会炸死我，而你会保护我。”弗雷德熟练地说道。

Lydgate felt shame, but could not bear to act as if he felt it, by refusing to see Mr. Farebrother; and he went down. They merely shook hands, however, and spoke of the frost; and when all three had turned into the street, the Vicar seemed quite willing to say good-by to Lydgate. His present purpose was clearly to talk with Fred alone, and he said, kindly, ‘I disturbed you, young gentleman, because I have some pressing business with you. Walk with me to St. Botolph’s, will you?’
利德盖特感到羞耻，但又不忍心假装感觉到羞耻，拒绝见费勒布拉泽先生。他就倒下了。然而，他们只是握了握手，并谈到了霜冻。当三个人都转向街道时，牧师似乎很愿意向利德盖特告别。他现在的目的显然是要单独和弗雷德谈谈，他和蔼地说：“我打扰你了，年轻的先生，因为我有一些紧急的事情要找你。”跟我一起去圣博托夫教堂吧，好吗？

It was a fine night, the sky thick with stars, and Mr. Farebrother proposed that they should make a circuit to the old church by the London road. The next thing he said was—
那是一个晴朗的夜晚，天空繁星密布，费勒布拉泽先生提议他们应该沿着伦敦路绕一圈去老教堂。他接下来说的是——

‘I thought Lydgate never went to the Green Dragon?’
“我以为利德盖特从来没有去过绿龙号？”

‘So did I,’ said Fred. ‘But he said that he went to see Bambridge.’
“我也是，”弗雷德说。 “但他说他去看了班布里奇。”

‘He was not playing, then?’
“那么他没有在比赛吗？”

Fred had not meant to tell this, but he was obliged now to say, ‘Yes, he was. But I suppose it was an accidental thing. I have never seen him there before.’
弗雷德本来不想告诉这些，但他现在不得不说：“是的，他是。”但我想这是一件偶然的事情。我以前从未在那里见过他。

‘You have been going often yourself, then, lately?’
“那么，最近你自己经常去吗？”

‘Oh, about five or six times.’
“哦，大约五六次。”

‘I think you had some good reason for giving up the habit of going there?’
“我想你有充分的理由放弃去那里的习惯吗？”

‘Yes. You know all about it,’ said Fred, not liking to be catechised in this way. ‘I made a clean breast to you.’
'是的。你都知道了。”弗雷德说道，他不喜欢以这种方式接受教义问答。 “我向你坦白了。”

‘I suppose that gives me a warrant to speak about the matter now. It is understood between us, is it not?—that we are on a footing of open friendship: I have listened to you, and you will be willing to listen to me. I may take my turn in talking a little about myself?’
“我想这给了我现在谈论此事的理由。我们之间有一个共识，不是吗？——我们建立在开放的友谊基础上：我听了你的话，你也会愿意听我的。我可以轮流谈谈我自己吗？

‘I am under the deepest obligation to you, Mr. Farebrother,’ said Fred, in a state of uncomfortable surmise.
“费雷布拉泽先生，我对您负有最深的责任。”弗雷德带着一种不安的猜测说道。

‘I will not affect to deny that you are under some obligation to me. But I am going to confess to you, Fred, that I have been tempted to reverse all that by keeping silence with you just now. When somebody said to me, ‘Young Vincy has taken to being at the billiard-table every night again—he won’t bear the curb long;’ I was tempted to do the opposite of what I am doing—to hold my tongue and wait while you went down the ladder again, betting first and then—‘
“我不会否认你对我负有某种义务。但我要向你承认，弗雷德，我刚才很想通过对你保持沉默来扭转这一切。当有人对我说：“年轻的文西又开始每天晚上都坐在台球桌旁了——他受不了太久的限制了；”我很想做与我正在做的事情相反的事——闭嘴，不说话。等你再走下梯子，先下注，然后——”

‘I have not made any bets,’ said Fred, hastily.
“我没有打赌，”弗雷德急忙说道。

‘Glad to hear it. But I say, my prompting was to look on and see you take the wrong turning, wear out Garth’s patience, and lose the best opportunity of your life—the opportunity which you made some rather difficult effort to secure. You can guess the feeling which raised that temptation in me—I am sure you know it. I am sure you know that the satisfaction of your affections stands in the way of mine.’
'听到那个消息很开心。但我要说的是，我的动机是看着你走错了方向，耗尽了加思的耐心，失去了你一生中最好的机会——这个机会是你付出了相当大的努力才获得的。你可以猜到我内心产生这种诱惑的感觉——我相信你知道这一点。我相信你知道你的感情的满足会阻碍我的感情。

There was a pause. Mr. Farebrother seemed to wait for a recognition of the fact; and the emotion perceptible in the tones of his fine voice gave solemnity to his words. But no feeling could quell Fred’s alarm.
一阵停顿。费勒布拉泽先生似乎在等待人们承认这一事实。从他优美的声音中可以感觉到的情感使他的话语显得庄严。但没有任何感觉可以平息弗雷德的警报。

‘I could not be expected to give her up,’ he said, after a moment’s hesitation: it was not a case for any pretence of generosity.
“我不能指望放弃她，”他犹豫片刻后说道：这不是假装慷慨的理由。

‘Clearly not, when her affection met yours. But relations of this sort, even when they are of long standing, are always liable to change. I can easily conceive that you might act in a way to loosen the tie she feels towards you—it must be remembered that she is only conditionally bound to you—and that in that ease, another man, who may flatter himself that he has a hold on her regard, might succeed in winning that firm place in her love as well as respect which you had let slip. I can easily conceive such a result,’ repeated Mr. Farebrother, emphatically. ‘There is a companionship of ready sympathy, which might get the advantage even over the longest associations.’ It seemed to Fred that if Mr. Farebrother had had a beak and talons instead of his very capable tongue, his mode of attack could hardly be more cruel. He had a horrible conviction that behind all this hypothetic statement there was a knowledge of some actual change in Mary’s feeling.
“显然不是，当她的感情遇到你的时候。但这种关系，即使是长期存在的，也总是容易发生变化。我很容易想象，你可能会采取某种方式来放松她对你的感觉——必须记住，她对你的束缚只是有条件的——而在这种轻松的情况下，另一个男人可能会自以为他有一个保持她的尊重，可能会成功地在她的爱和尊重中赢得你所失去的牢固地位。我很容易想到这样的结果。”费雷布拉泽先生强调道。 “有一种随时准备好的同情心的陪伴，这甚至可能比最长的交往更有优势。”在弗雷德看来，如果法尔布拉泽先生有喙和爪子，而不是他非常能干的舌头，他的攻击方式就很难是更残酷。他有一种可怕的信念，在所有这些假设性陈述的背后，他知道玛丽的感情确实发生了一些变化。

‘Of course I know it might easily be all up with me,’ he said, in a troubled voice. ‘If she is beginning to compare—‘ He broke off, not liking to betray all he felt, and then said, by the help of a little bitterness, ‘But I thought you were friendly to me.’
“我当然知道这很容易就完蛋了，”他声音不安地说。 “如果她开始比较——”他停了下来，不想泄露自己的全部感受，然后带着一点苦涩说道，“但我以为你对我很友好。”

‘So I am; that is why we are here. But I have had a strong disposition to be otherwise. I have said to myself, ‘If there is a likelihood of that youngster doing himself harm, why should you interfere? Aren’t you worth as much as he is, and don’t your sixteen years over and above his, in which you have gone rather hungry, give you more right to satisfaction than he has? If there’s a chance of his going to the dogs, let him—perhaps you could nohow hinder it— and do you take the benefit.’’
'我也是;这就是我们在这里的原因。但我有一种强烈的倾向，不这样做。我对自己说，‘如果那个年轻人有可能伤害自己，你为什么要干涉呢？你难道不和他一样有价值吗？你比他多了十六年，你已经挨饿了，难道你不比他更有权利获得满足吗？如果他有机会发疯，那就让他去吧——也许你无论如何也阻止不了——然后你就从中受益。”

There was a pause, in which Fred was seized by a most uncomfortable chill. What was coming next? He dreaded to hear that something had been said to Mary—he felt as if he were listening to a threat rather than a warning. When the Vicar began again there was a change in his tone like the encouraging transition to a major key.
停顿了一下，弗雷德感到一阵极其不舒服的寒意。接下来会发生什么？他害怕听到别人对玛丽说了些什么——他觉得自己听到的是威胁而不是警告。当牧师再次开始时，他的语气发生了变化，就像鼓励性地转向大调一样。

‘But I had once meant better than that, and I am come back to my old intention. I thought that I could hardly SECURE MYSELF in it better, Fred, than by telling you just what had gone on in me. And now, do you understand me? want you to make the happiness of her life and your own, and if there is any chance that a word of warning from me may turn aside any risk to the contrary—well, I have uttered it.’
“但我的本意曾经比这更好，现在我又回到了原来的意图。弗雷德，我想，除了告诉你我内心发生的事情之外，我没有什么比这更能让我安全的了。现在，你明白我的意思了吗？想让你为她和你自己创造幸福的生活，如果我的一句警告可能会化解任何相反的风险——好吧，我已经说了。

There was a drop in the Vicar’s voice when he spoke the last words He paused—they were standing on a patch of green where the road diverged towards St. Botolph’s, and he put out his hand, as if to imply that the conversation was closed. Fred was moved quite newly. Some one highly susceptible to the contemplation of a fine act has said, that it produces a sort of regenerating shudder through the frame, and makes one feel ready to begin a new life. A good degree of that effect was just then present in Fred Vincy.
牧师说最后一句话时，声音低沉了。他停了下来——他们站在通往圣博托夫教堂的道路分叉处的一片绿地上，他伸出手，仿佛暗示谈话结束了。 。弗雷德是新搬家的。一些对美好行为的沉思非常敏感的人说，它会在整个框架中产生一种再生的颤抖，并使人感到准备好开始新的生活。弗雷德·文西当时就充分体现了这种效果。

‘I will try to be worthy,’ he said, breaking off before he could say ‘of you as well as of her.’ And meanwhile Mr. Farebrother had gathered the impulse to say something more.
“我会努力做到配得上，”他说，还没来得及说“你和她。”与此同时，费尔布拉泽先生又想再说点什么。

‘You must not imagine that I believe there is at present any decline in her preference of you, Fred. Set your heart at rest, that if you keep right, other things will keep right.’
“你千万别以为我相信目前她对你的好感度有任何下降，弗雷德。让你的心平静下来，如果你保持正确，其他事情就会保持正确。

‘I shall never forget what you have done,’ Fred answered. ‘I can’t say anything that seems worth saying—only I will try that your goodness shall not be thrown away.’
“我永远不会忘记你所做的一切，”弗雷德回答道。 “我不能说任何值得说的话——只是我会尽力不让你的善良被抛弃。”

‘That’s enough. Good-by, and God bless you.’
‘够了。再见，愿上帝保佑你。

In that way they parted. But both of them walked about a long while before they went out of the starlight. Much of Fred’s rumination might be summed up in the words, ‘It certainly would have been a fine thing for her to marry Farebrother—but if she loves me best and I am a good husband?’
就这样他们分手了。但两人又走了好一会儿，才走出了星光。弗雷德的大部分沉思可以用这句话来概括：“对她来说，嫁给费雷布拉泽当然是一件好事——但如果她最爱我并且我是一个好丈夫呢？”

Perhaps Mr. Farebrother’s might be concentrated into a single shrug and one little speech. ‘To think of the part one little woman can play in the life of a man, so that to renounce her may be a very good imitation of heroism, and to win her may be a discipline!’
也许费雷布拉泽先生的讲话会集中在一次耸肩和一次简短的讲话中。 “想想一个小女人在男人的生活中可以扮演的角色，因此放弃她可能是对英雄主义的很好模仿，而赢得她可能是一种纪律！”

CHAPTER LXVII
第十六章

Now is there civil war within the soul:
现在灵魂中有内战：

Resolve is thrust from off the sacred throne
决心被推离神圣宝座

By clamorous Needs, and Pride the grand-vizier
出于喧闹的需要，以及大维齐尔的骄傲

Makes humble compact, plays the supple part
打造简洁紧凑，发挥柔软作用

Of envoy and deft-tongued apologist
特使和巧舌如簧的辩护者

For hungry rebels.
对于饥饿的叛乱分子来说。

Happily Lydgate had ended by losing in the billiard-room, and brought away no encouragement to make a raid on luck. On the contrary, he felt unmixed disgust with himself the next day when he had to pay four or five pounds over and above his gains, and he carried about with him a most unpleasant vision of the figure he had made, not only rubbing elbows with the men at the Green Dragon but behaving just as they did. A philosopher fallen to betting is hardly distinguishable from a Philistine under the same circumstances: the difference will chiefly be found in his subsequent reflections, and Lydgate chewed a very disagreeable cud in that way. His reason told him how the affair might have been magnified into ruin by a slight change of scenery—if it had been a gambling-house that he had turned into, where chance could be clutched with both hands instead of being picked up with thumb and fore-finger. Nevertheless, though reason strangled the desire to gamble, there remained the feeling that, with an assurance of luck to the needful amount, he would have liked to gamble, rather than take the alternative which was beginning to urge itself as inevitable.
令人高兴的是，利德盖特最终在台球室输了，并没有给他带来任何去碰运气的鼓励。相反，第二天，当他不得不支付比他的收入多出四五英镑的钱时，他对自己感到无比的厌恶，他对自己所创造的形象抱有一种最不愉快的愿景，不仅与他人擦肩而过。绿龙酒店的人，但他们的行为却和他们一样。在同样的情况下，一个沉迷于赌博的哲学家与一个庸人几乎没有区别：区别主要在于他随后的反思，利德盖特以这种方式反刍了非常令人不快的反刍。他的理智告诉他，这件事可能会因为风景的轻微变化而被放大到毁灭——如果他把它变成了一个赌场，在那里机会可以用双手抓住，而不是用拇指和拇指捡起来。食指。然而，尽管理性扼杀了赌博的欲望，但仍然有一种感觉，即如果有必要的运气保证，他宁愿赌博，而不是采取开始敦促自己不可避免的替代方案。

That alternative was to apply to Mr. Bulstrode. Lydgate had so many times boasted both to himself and others that he was totally independent of Bulstrode, to whose plans he had lent himself solely because they enabled him to carry out his own ideas of professional work and public benefit—he had so constantly in their personal intercourse had his pride sustained by the sense that he was making a good social use of this predominating banker, whose opinions he thought contemptible and whose motives often seemed to him an absurd mixture of contradictory impressions— that he had been creating for himself strong ideal obstacles to the proffering of any considerable request to him on his own account.
另一种选择是向布尔斯特罗德先生提出申请。利德盖特多次向自己和他人吹嘘说，他完全独立于布尔斯特罗德，他之所以将自己借给布尔斯特罗德的计划，只是因为这些计划使他能够执行自己的专业工作和公共利益想法——他总是在他们的计划中工作。在个人交往中，他感到自己正在很好地利用这位占主导地位的银行家，他的自豪感得以维持，他认为银行家的观点是可鄙的，而他的动机在他看来往往是矛盾印象的荒谬混合体——他一直在为自己创造强烈的理想。为他自己的利益而向他提出任何重大要求的障碍。

Still, early in March his affairs were at that pass in which men begin to say that their oaths were delivered in ignorance, and to perceive that the act which they had called impossible to them is becoming manifestly possible. With Dover’s ugly security soon to be put in force, with the proceeds of his practice immediately absorbed in paying back debts, and with the chance, if the worst were known, of daily supplies being refused on credit, above all with the vision of Rosamond’s hopeless discontent continually haunting him, Lydgate had begun to see that he should inevitably bend himself to ask help from somebody or other. At first he had considered whether he should write to Mr. Vincy; but on questioning Rosamond he found that, as he had suspected, she had already applied twice to her father, the last time being since the disappointment from Sir Godwin; and papa had said that Lydgate must look out for himself. ‘Papa said he had come, with one bad year after another, to trade more and more on borrowed capital, and had had to give up many indulgences; he could not spare a single hundred from the charges of his family. He said, let Lydgate ask Bulstrode: they have always been hand and glove.’
尽管如此，三月初，他的事情已经到了这样的阶段，人们开始说他们的誓言是在无知的情况下做出的，并意识到他们认为不可能的行动显然变得可能了。多佛丑陋的担保很快就会生效，他的做法收益立即被用来偿还债务，而且，如果最坏的情况发生的话，日常供应有可能被拒绝赊购，尤其是罗莎蒙德的愿景绝望的不满不断地困扰着他，利德盖特开始意识到他应该不可避免地向某人或其他人寻求帮助。起初他考虑过是否应该给文西先生写信；但他没有考虑过。但在询问罗莎蒙德时，他发现，正如他所怀疑的那样，她已经向她父亲提出了两次申请，最后一次是在戈德温爵士失望之后。爸爸说过利德盖特必须照顾好自己。 “爸爸说，他来了，年复一年地不好，用借来的资本进行越来越多的交易，不得不放弃许多放纵；他不能免除他家人的一百块罪名。他说，让利德盖特问布尔斯特罗德：他们一直都是手和手套。

Indeed, Lydgate himself had come to the conclusion that if he must end by asking for a free loan, his relations with Bulstrode, more at least than with any other man, might take the shape of a claim which was not purely personal. Bulstrode had indirectly helped to cause the failure of his practice, and had also been highly gratified by getting a medical partner in his plans:— but who among us ever reduced himself to the sort of dependence in which Lydgate now stood, without trying to believe that he had claims which diminished the humiliation of asking? It was true that of late there had seemed to be a new languor of interest in Bulstrode about the Hospital; but his health had got worse, and showed signs of a deep-seated nervous affection. In other respects he did not appear to be changed: he had always been highly polite, but Lydgate had observed in him from the first a marked coldness about his marriage and other private circumstances, a coldness which he had hitherto preferred to any warmth of familiarity between them. He deferred the intention from day to day, his habit of acting on his conclusions being made infirm by his repugnance to every possible conclusion and its consequent act. He saw Mr. Bulstrode often, but he did not try to use any occasion for his private purpose. At one moment he thought, ‘I will write a letter: I prefer that to any circuitous talk;’ at another he thought, ‘No; if I were talking to him, I could make a retreat before any signs of disinclination.’
事实上，利德盖特本人已经得出这样的结论：如果他必须以要求无偿贷款作为结束，那么他与布尔斯特罗德的关系，至少比与任何其他人的关系，可能会采取一种不纯粹是个人的主张的形式。布尔斯特罗德间接地导致了他的实践失败，并且还因为在他的计划中找到了一个医疗合作伙伴而感到非常高兴：——但是我们当中谁曾将自己降低到利德盖特现在所面临的那种依赖，而不试图相信他的主张可以减轻询问的羞辱吗？确实，最近布尔斯特罗德似乎对医院产生了新的兴趣。但他的健康状况每况愈下，并表现出根深蒂固的紧张情绪。在其他方面，他似乎没有改变：他一直非常有礼貌，但利德盖特从一开始就在他身上观察到对他的婚姻和其他私人情况的明显冷漠，迄今为止他更喜欢这种冷漠，而不是任何熟悉的温暖它们之间。他日复一日地推迟着这个意图，他对每一个可能的结论及其随之而来的行动的反感使得他根据结论采取行动的习惯变得脆弱。他经常见到布尔斯特罗德先生，但他并没有试图利用任何场合来达到他的私人目的。一会儿他想，“我要写一封信：我更喜欢写一封信，而不是任何迂回的谈话；”一会儿他又想，“不；”如果我和他说话，我可以在出现任何不愿意的迹象之前撤退。

Still the days passed and no letter was written, no special interview sought. In his shrinking from the humiliation of a dependent attitude towards Bulstrode, he began to familiarize his imagination with another step even more unlike his remembered self. He began spontaneously to consider whether it would be possible to carry out that puerile notion of Rosamond’s which had often made him angry, namely, that they should quit Middlemarch without seeing anything beyond that preface. The question came—‘Would any man buy the practice of me even now, for as little as it is worth? Then the sale might happen as a necessary preparation for going away.’
然而日子一天天过去，我们仍然没有写信，也没有寻求特别采访。当他因对布尔斯特罗德的依赖态度而感到羞耻时，他开始熟悉自己的想象，迈出与记忆中的自己更加不同的一步。他开始自发地考虑是否有可能实现罗莎蒙德的那个经常让他生气的幼稚想法，即他们应该在没有看到序言之外的任何内容的情况下离开米德尔马契。问题来了——“即使是现在，还有人愿意花很少的钱购买我的实践吗？”那么出售可能会发生，作为离开的必要准备。

But against his taking this step, which he still felt to be a contemptible relinquishment of present work, a guilty turning aside from what was a real and might be a widening channel for worthy activity, to start again without any justified destination, there was this obstacle, that the purchaser, if procurable at all, might not be quickly forthcoming. And afterwards? Rosamond in a poor lodging, though in the largest city or most distant town, would not find the life that could save her from gloom, and save him from the reproach of having plunged her into it. For when a man is at the foot of the hill in his fortunes, he may stay a long while there in spite of professional accomplishment. In the British climate there is no incompatibility between scientific insight and furnished lodgings: the incompatibility is chiefly between scientific ambition and a wife who objects to that kind of residence.
但反对他迈出这一步，他仍然觉得这是对当前工作的可鄙的放弃，是对真正的、可能是有价值活动的拓宽渠道的内疚转向，在没有任何正当目的地的情况下重新开始，有这样的情况：障碍，即购买者即使可以采购，也可能不会很快出现。然后呢？罗莎蒙德住在一间简陋的住所里，尽管是在最大的城市或最遥远的城镇，但她找不到一种生活可以使她摆脱忧郁，也无法使他免受让她陷入困境的责备。因为当一个人的命运处于山脚下时，尽管他在职业上取得了成就，但他可能会在那里停留很长时间。在英国的气候下，科学洞察力和配备齐全的住宿之间并不存在不相容性：不相容的主要是科学抱负和反对这种住宿的妻子之间。

But in the midst of his hesitation, opportunity came to decide him. A note from Mr. Bulstrode requested Lydgate to call on him at the Bank. A hypochondriacal tendency had shown itself in the banker’s constitution of late; and a lack of sleep, which was really only a slight exaggeration of an habitual dyspeptic symptom, had been dwelt on by him as a sign of threatening insanity. He wanted to consult Lydgate without delay on that particular morning, although he had nothing to tell beyond what he had told before. He listened eagerly to what Lydgate had to say in dissipation of his fears, though this too was only repetition; and this moment in which Bulstrode was receiving a medical opinion with a sense of comfort, seemed to make the communication of a personal need to him easier than it had been in Lydgate’s contemplation beforehand. He had been insisting that it would be well for Mr. Bulstrode to relax his attention to business.
但就在他犹豫不决的时候，机会来了，决定了他。布尔斯特罗德先生写来一张便条，要求利德盖特去银行拜访他。最近，这位银行家的体质中出现了疑病症的倾向。睡眠不足实际上只是习惯性消化不良症状的轻微夸大，他一直认为这是精神错乱的一个迹象。他想在那个早晨立即咨询利德盖特，尽管除了之前所说的之外，他没有什么可说的。他热切地听着利德盖特为了驱散他的恐惧而说的话，尽管这也只是重复。布尔斯特罗德带着安慰的心情接受医疗意见的这一刻，似乎比利德盖特之前考虑的更容易向他传达个人需求。他一直坚持认为布尔斯特罗德先生最好放松对生意的关注。

‘One sees how any mental strain, however slight, may affect a delicate frame,’ said Lydgate at that stage of the consultation when the remarks tend to pass from the personal to the general, ‘by the deep stamp which anxiety will make for a time even on the young and vigorous. I am naturally very strong; yet I have been thoroughly shaken lately by an accumulation of trouble.’
“人们看到任何精神紧张，无论多么轻微，都可能影响脆弱的身体，”利德盖特在咨询的那个阶段说道，当时言论往往从个人转移到一般情况，“焦虑会给人留下深刻的印记。”时光更就年轻气盛。我天生就很坚强；但近来我却被不断积累的麻烦彻底动摇了。

‘I presume that a constitution in the susceptible state in which mine at present is, would be especially liable to fall a victim to cholera, if it visited our district. And since its appearance near London, we may well besiege the Mercy-seat for our protection,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, not intending to evade Lydgate’s allusion, but really preoccupied with alarms about himself.
“我认为，如果霍乱来到我们地区，我目前所在的易感国家的宪法将特别容易成为霍乱的受害者。布尔斯特罗德先生说，自从它出现在伦敦附近以来，我们很可能会围攻仁慈座以求保护。

‘You have at all events taken your share in using good practical precautions for the town, and that is the best mode of asking for protection,’ said Lydgate, with a strong distaste for the broken metaphor and bad logic of the banker’s religion, somewhat increased by the apparent deafness of his sympathy. But his mind had taken up its long-prepared movement towards getting help, and was not yet arrested. He added, ‘The town has done well in the way of cleansing, and finding appliances; and I think that if the cholera should come, even our enemies will admit that the arrangements in the Hospital are a public good.’
利德盖特说：“无论如何，你已经为这座城镇采取了良好的实际预防措施，这是寻求保护的最佳方式。”他的同情心明显充耳不闻，这让他的同情心更加强烈。但他的思绪已经开始了准备已久的寻求帮助的运动，并且还没有被逮捕。他补充说，“该镇在清洁和寻找器具方面做得很好；我认为，如果霍乱来了，即使是我们的敌人也会承认医院的安排是公共利益。

‘Truly,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, with some coldness. ‘With regard to what you say, Mr. Lydgate, about the relaxation of my mental labor, I have for some time been entertaining a purpose to that effect— a purpose of a very decided character. I contemplate at least a temporary withdrawal from the management of much business, whether benevolent or commercial. Also I think of changing my residence for a time: probably I shall close or let ‘The Shrubs,’ and take some place near the coast—under advice of course as to salubrity. That would be a measure which you would recommend?’
“确实如此，”布尔斯特罗德先生说道，语气有些冷淡。 “关于你所说的，利德盖特先生，关于放松我的脑力劳动，我有一段时间一直在考虑这样的目的——一个非常坚定的性格的目的。我考虑至少暂时退出许多企业的管理，无论是慈善的还是商业的。我还考虑暂时改变我的住所：也许我会关闭或出租“灌木丛”，并在靠近海岸的地方找个地方——当然要考虑到健康。这是您会推荐的措施吗？

‘Oh yes,’ said Lydgate, falling backward in his chair, with ill-repressed impatience under the banker’s pale earnest eyes and intense preoccupation with himself.
“哦，是的，”利德盖特说着，向后倒在椅子上，在银行家苍白而认真的眼神和对自己的全神贯注之下，他压抑着不耐烦。

‘I have for some time felt that I should open this subject with you in relation to our Hospital,’ continued Bulstrode. ‘Under the circumstances I have indicated, of course I must cease to have any personal share in the management, and it is contrary to my views of responsibility to continue a large application of means to an institution which I cannot watch over and to some extent regulate. I shall therefore, in case of my ultimate decision to leave Middlemarch, consider that I withdraw other support to the New Hospital than that which will subsist in the fact that I chiefly supplied the expenses of building it, and have contributed further large sums to its successful working.’
“一段时间以来，我一直觉得我应该向您提出这个与我们医院有关的话题，”布尔斯特罗德继续说道。 “在我所指出的情况下，我当然必须停止以个人身份参与管理，继续对一个我无法监督且在某种程度上无法监督的机构使用大量手段，这与我的责任观相悖”调节。因此，如果我最终决定离开米德尔马契，我将考虑撤回对新医院的其他支持，而不仅仅是我主要提供建设它的费用，并为其提供了更多的大笔资金。工作成功。”

Lydgate’s thought, when Bulstrode paused according to his wont, was, ‘He has perhaps been losing a good deal of money.’ This was the most plausible explanation of a speech which had caused rather a startling change in his expectations. He said in reply—
当布尔斯特罗德按照他的习惯停下来时，利德盖特的想法是，“他可能损失了很多钱。”这是对这场演讲最合理的解释，这场演讲使他的期望发生了惊人的变化。他回复说——

‘The loss to the Hospital can hardly be made up, I fear.’
“我担心医院的损失很难弥补。”

‘Hardly,’ returned Bulstrode, in the same deliberate, silvery tone; ‘except by some changes of plan. The only person who may be certainly counted on as willing to increase her contributions is Mrs. Casaubon. I have had an interview with her on the subject, and I have pointed out to her, as I am about to do to you, that it will be desirable to win a more general support to the New Hospital by a change of system.’ Another pause, but Lydgate did not speak.
“几乎没有，”布尔斯特罗德用同样从容的、银白色的语气回答道。 “除了计划的一些改变。唯一可以肯定愿意增加捐款的人是卡苏邦夫人。我就这个问题与她进行了采访，我已经向她指出，就像我即将对你做的那样，通过改变系统来为新医院赢得更广泛的支持是可取的。又停顿了一下，但利德盖特没有说话。

‘The change I mean is an amalgamation with the Infirmary, so that the New Hospital shall be regarded as a special addition to the elder institution, having the same directing board. It will be necessary, also, that the medical management of the two shall be combined. In this way any difficulty as to the adequate maintenance of our new establishment will be removed; the benevolent interests of the town will cease to be divided.’
“我指的改变是与医务室合并，这样新医院将被视为对老机构的特殊补充，拥有相同的董事会。两者的医疗管理也有必要结合起来。这样，我们新机构的充分维护方面的任何困难都将被消除；该镇的慈善利益将不再分裂。

Mr. Bulstrode had lowered his eyes from Lydgate’s face to the buttons of his coat as he again paused.
布尔斯特罗德先生再次停了下来，目光从利德盖特的脸上移到了他外套的纽扣上。

‘No doubt that is a good device as to ways and means,’ said Lydgate, with an edge of irony in his tone. ‘But I can’t be expected to rejoice in it at once, since one of the first results will be that the other medical men will upset or interrupt my methods, if it were only because they are mine.’
“毫无疑问，就方式和手段而言，这是一个很好的策略，”利德盖特说道，语气中带着一丝讽刺。 “但我不能指望立即为此感到高兴，因为第一个结果将是其他医务人员会扰乱或打断我的方法，如果这只是因为他们是我的。”

‘I myself, as you know, Mr. Lydgate, highly valued the opportunity of new and independent procedure which you have diligently employed: the original plan, I confess, was one which I had much at heart, under submission to the Divine Will. But since providential indications demand a renunciation from me, I renounce.’
“正如您所知，利德盖特先生，我本人高度重视您辛勤采用的新的独立程序的机会：我承认，最初的计划是我内心深处的计划，服从神圣意志。但既然天意要求我放弃，我就放弃。”

Bulstrode showed a rather exasperating ability in this conversation. The broken metaphor and bad logic of motive which had stirred his hearer’s contempt were quite consistent with a mode of putting the facts which made it difficult for Lydgate to vent his own indignation and disappointment. After some rapid reflection, he only asked—
布尔斯特罗德在这次谈话中表现出了相当令人恼火的能力。那些引起听者蔑视的不完整的隐喻和糟糕的动机逻辑，与使利德盖特难以发泄自己的愤慨和失望的事实陈述方式非常一致。快速思考后，他只是问道——

‘What did Mrs. Casaubon say?’
“卡苏朋夫人说什么？”

‘That was the further statement which I wished to make to you,’ said Bulstrode, who had thoroughly prepared his ministerial explanation. ‘She is, you are aware, a woman of most munificent disposition, and happily in possession—not I presume of great wealth, but of funds which she can well spare. She has informed me that though she has destined the chief part of those funds to another purpose, she is willing to consider whether she cannot fully take my place in relation to the Hospital. But she wishes for ample time to mature her thoughts on the subject, and I have told her that there is no need for haste—that, in fact, my own plans are not yet absolute.’
“这就是我想向你做的进一步声明，”布尔斯特罗德说，他已经充分准备了他的部长解释。 “你知道，她是一个性情最慷慨的女人，并且幸福地拥有——我认为不是拥有巨大的财富，而是她可以充分利用的资金。她告诉我，虽然她已将这些资金的主要部分用于其他用途，但她愿意考虑是否不能完全取代我与医院的关系。但她希望有足够的时间来成熟她对这个问题的想法，我已经告诉她没有必要着急——事实上，我自己的计划还不是绝对的。

Lydgate was ready to say, ‘If Mrs. Casaubon would take your place, there would be gain, instead of loss.’ But there was still a weight on his mind which arrested this cheerful candor. He replied, ‘I suppose, then, that I may enter into the subject with Mrs. Casaubon.’
利德盖特正准备说：“如果卡苏朋夫人接替你的位置，就会有收获，而不是有损失。”但他心中仍有重担，阻止了他这种愉快的坦诚。他回答说：“那么我想我可以和卡苏朋夫人谈谈这个话题。”

‘Precisely; that is what she expressly desires. Her decision, she says, will much depend on what you can tell her. But not at present: she is, I believe, just setting out on a journey. I have her letter here,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, drawing it out, and reading from it. ‘I am immediately otherwise engaged,’ she says. ‘I am going into Yorkshire with Sir James and Lady Chettam; and the conclusions I come to about some land which I am to see there may affect my power of contributing to the Hospital.’ Thus, Mr. Lydgate, there is no haste necessary in this matter; but I wished to apprise you beforehand of what may possibly occur.’
'恰恰;这就是她明确想要的。她说，她的决定很大程度上取决于你能告诉她什么。但目前还不是：我相信她刚刚踏上旅程。 “我这里有她的信。”布尔斯特罗德先生一边说，一边把信拿出来读了起来。 “我立刻就订婚了，”她说。 “我要和詹姆斯爵士和切塔姆夫人一起去约克郡；因此，利德盖特先生，在这件事上没有必要仓促行事；但我想提前告知您可能发生的情况。

Mr. Bulstrode returned the letter to his side-pocket, and changed his attitude as if his business were closed. Lydgate, whose renewed hope about the Hospital only made him more conscious of the facts which poisoned his hope, felt that his effort after help, if made at all, must be made now and vigorously.
布尔斯特罗德先生将信放回侧袋，然后改变了态度，就好像他的生意已经结束了一样。利德盖特对医院重新燃起了希望，这让他更加意识到那些毒害了他的希望的事实，他觉得他必须立即做出努力，而且要积极地寻求帮助。

‘I am much obliged to you for giving me full notice,’ he said, with a firm intention in his tone, yet with an interruptedness in his delivery which showed that he spoke unwillingly. ‘The highest object to me is my profession, and I had identified the Hospital with the best use I can at present make of my profession. But the best use is not always the same with monetary success. Everything which has made the Hospital unpopular has helped with other causes— I think they are all connected with my professional zeal—to make me unpopular as a practitioner. I get chiefly patients who can’t pay me. I should like them best, if I had nobody to pay on my own side.’ Lydgate waited a little, but Bulstrode only bowed, looking at him fixedly, and he went on with the same interrupted enunciation— as if he were biting an objectional leek.
“我非常感谢你对我的充分通知。”他说道，语气中带着坚定的意图，但语气中却时不时地打断，表明他不太情愿。 “我的最高目标是我的职业，我认为医院是我目前可以充分利用我的职业的地方。”但最佳用途并不总是与金钱上的成功相同。一切让医院不受欢迎的事情都与其他原因有关——我认为它们都与我的职业热情有关——使我作为一名从业者不受欢迎。我接待的病人主要是付不起钱的病人。利德盖特等了一会儿，但布尔斯特罗德只是鞠了一躬，定定地看着他，然后他继续用同样的断断续续的发音——好像他在咬一个反对者。韭葱。

‘I have slipped into money difficulties which I can see no way out of, unless some one who trusts me and my future will advance me a sum without other security. I had very little fortune left when I came here. I have no prospects of money from my own family. My expenses, in consequence of my marriage, have been very much greater than I had expected. The result at this moment is that it would take a thousand pounds to clear me. I mean, to free me from the risk of having all my goods sold in security of my largest debt— as well as to pay my other debts—and leave anything to keep us a little beforehand with our small income. I find that it is out of the question that my wife’s father should make such an advance. That is why I mention my position to—to the only other man who may be held to have some personal connection with my prosperity or ruin.’
“我陷入了资金困难，我看不到任何出路，除非有人信任我和我的未来，在没有其他担保的情况下预支一笔钱给我。”当我来到这里时，我所剩的财产已经所剩无几了。我没有希望从自己的家人那里得到钱。由于结婚，我的开支比我预期的要多得多。现在的结果是，需要一千英镑才能清理我。我的意思是，让我摆脱出售所有货物以偿还我最大的债务的风险——以及偿还我的其他债务——并留下任何东西来让我们提前用我们的微薄收入维持一点。我觉得我岳父不可能垫付这样的钱。这就是为什么我向唯一可能与我的繁荣或毁灭有某种个人联系的人提及我的立场。

Lydgate hated to hear himself. But he had spoken now, and had spoken with unmistakable directness. Mr. Bulstrode replied without haste, but also without hesitation.
利德盖特讨厌听自己说话。但他现在开口说话了，而且说话的语气毫无疑问是直接的。布尔斯特罗德先生不慌不忙地回答，但也毫不犹豫。

‘I am grieved, though, I confess, not surprised by this information, Mr. Lydgate. For my own part, I regretted your alliance with my brother-in-law’s family, which has always been of prodigal habits, and which has already been much indebted to me for sustainment in its present position. My advice to you, Mr. Lydgate, would be, that instead of involving yourself in further obligations, and continuing a doubtful struggle, you should simply become a bankrupt.’
“不过，我承认，我很伤心，对这个消息并不感到惊讶，利德盖特先生。就我个人而言，我对你与我姐夫家族的联盟感到遗憾，我姐夫家族一向有挥霍的习惯，而且维持现在的地位已经对我有很大的恩惠。利德盖特先生，我给你的建议是，你应该破产，而不是让自己承担更多的义务，继续进行可疑的斗争。

‘That would not improve my prospect,’ said Lydgate, rising and speaking bitterly, ‘even if it were a more agreeable thing in itself.’
“这不会改善我的前景，”利德盖特站起来，苦涩地说，“即使这本身是一件更令人愉快的事情。”

‘It is always a trial,’ said Mr. Bulstrode; ‘but trial, my dear sir, is our portion here, and is a needed corrective. I recommend you to weigh the advice I have given.’
“这始终是一场考验，”布尔斯特罗德先生说。 “但是，亲爱的先生，审判是我们的责任，也是必要的纠正。我建议你权衡一下我给出的建议。

‘Thank you,’ said Lydgate, not quite knowing what he said. ‘I have occupied you too long. Good-day.’
“谢谢你，”利德盖特说，不太明白自己说了什么。 ‘我已经占据你太久了。再会。'

CHAPTER LXVIII
第六十八章

‘What suit of grace hath Virtue to put on
‘美德要穿上什么样的恩典衣服？

If Vice shall wear as good, and do as well?
如果 Vice 穿起来也同样好，做的也同样好的话？

If Wrong, if Craft, if Indiscretion
如果错误，如果技巧，如果轻率

Act as fair parts with ends as laudable?
表现得公平，结果值得称赞？

Which all this mighty volume of events
这么多的事件

The world, the universal map of deeds,
世界，行为的普遍地图，

Strongly controls, and proves from all descents,
强有力的控制，并从所有血统中证明，

That the directest course still best succeeds.
最直接的做法仍然最成功。

For should not grave and learn’d Experience
不应该埋葬和学习经验

That looks with the eyes of all the world beside,
用旁边全世界的目光来看，

And with all ages holds intelligence,
并拥有所有年龄段的智慧，

Go safer than Deceit without a guide!
在没有向导的情况下，比欺骗更安全！

—DANIEL: Musophilus.
——丹尼尔：穆索菲勒斯。

That change of plan and shifting of interest which Bulstrode stated or betrayed in his conversation with Lydgate, had been determined in him by some severe experience which he had gone through since the epoch of Mr. Larcher’s sale, when Raffles had recognized Will Ladislaw, and when the banker had in vain attempted an act of restitution which might move Divine Providence to arrest painful consequences.
布尔斯特罗德在与利德盖特的谈话中所说或背叛的计划的改变和利益的转移，是由他自拉彻先生出售时代以来所经历的一些严峻的经历所决定的，当时莱佛士认识了威尔·拉迪斯洛，并且当银行家徒劳地尝试采取恢复原状的行为时，这可能会促使神圣的天意阻止痛苦的后果。

His certainty that Raffles, unless he were dead, would return to Middlemarch before long, had been justified. On Christmas Eve he had reappeared at The Shrubs. Bulstrode was at home to receive him, and hinder his communication with the rest of the family, but he could not altogether hinder the circumstances of the visit from compromising himself and alarming his wife. Raffles proved more unmanageable than he had shown himself to be in his former appearances, his chronic state of mental restlessness, the growing effect of habitual intemperance, quickly shaking off every impression from what was said to him. He insisted on staying in the house, and Bulstrode, weighing two sets of evils, felt that this was at least not a worse alternative than his going into the town. He kept him in his own room for the evening and saw him to bed, Raffles all the while amusing himself with the annoyance he was causing this decent and highly prosperous fellow-sinner, an amusement which he facetiously expressed as sympathy with his friend’s pleasure in entertaining a man who had been serviceable to him, and who had not had all his earnings. There was a cunning calculation under this noisy joking—a cool resolve to extract something the handsomer from Bulstrode as payment for release from this new application of torture. But his cunning had a little overcast its mark.
他确信莱佛士除非死了，否则不久就会回到米德尔马奇，这是有道理的。圣诞节前夕，他再次出现在灌木丛酒店。布尔斯特罗德在家接待他，并阻碍了他与家人其他成员的沟通，但他无法完全阻止访问的情况对他自己造成损害并惊动他的妻子。事实证明，莱佛士比他以前的表现更加难以控制，他长期处于精神不安的状态，习惯性不节制的影响日益严重，很快就摆脱了对他所说的话的每一个印象。他坚持留在房子里，而布尔斯特罗德权衡了两方面的弊端，觉得这至少不比进城更糟糕。晚上，他把他留在自己的房间里，送他上床睡觉，莱佛士一直在自娱自乐地自娱自乐，他给这个正派、非常富裕的罪人带来了烦恼，他开玩笑地将这种乐趣表达为对他朋友的快乐的同情。款待一个曾经为他服务过但并没有得到他全部收入的人。在这个吵闹的玩笑背后隐藏着一个狡猾的算计——一个冷静的决定，要从布尔斯特罗德那里索取更漂亮的东西，作为从这种新的酷刑中释放的报酬。但他的狡猾有点掩盖了它的印记。

Bulstrode was indeed more tortured than the coarse fibre of Raffles could enable him to imagine. He had told his wife that he was simply taking care of this wretched creature, the victim of vice, who might otherwise injure himself; he implied, without the direct form of falsehood, that there was a family tie which bound him to this care, and that there were signs of mental alienation in Raffles which urged caution. He would himself drive the unfortunate being away the next morning. In these hints he felt that he was supplying Mrs. Bulstrode with precautionary information for his daughters and servants, and accounting for his allowing no one but himself to enter the room even with food and drink. But he sat in an agony of fear lest Raffles should be overheard in his loud and plain references to past facts— lest Mrs. Bulstrode should be even tempted to listen at the door. How could he hinder her, how betray his terror by opening the door to detect her? She was a woman of honest direct habits, and little likely to take so low a course in order to arrive at painful knowledge; but fear was stronger than the calculation of probabilities.
布尔斯特罗德所受的折磨确实比莱佛士的粗纤维所能想象的还要严重。他告诉他的妻子，他只是在照顾这个可怜的生物，罪恶的受害者，否则他可能会伤害自己；他暗示，虽然没有直接的谎言，但家庭纽带将他与这种照顾联系在一起，而且莱佛士有精神疏离的迹象，需要谨慎行事。第二天早上他会亲自赶走这个不幸的人。在这些暗示中，他觉得自己是在向布尔斯特罗德夫人提供关于他的女儿和仆人的预防信息，并说明他不允许除了他自己之外的任何人进入房间，即使带着食物和饮料。但他坐在那里，心里充满了恐惧，生怕莱佛士大声而直白地提及过去的事实，被人听到——生怕布尔斯特罗德夫人甚至忍不住在门口偷听。他怎么能阻止她，怎么通过打开门发现她来暴露他的恐惧？她是一个有着诚实直接习惯的女人，不太可能为了获得痛苦的知识而采取如此低级的课程。但恐惧比概率的计算更强烈。

In this way Raffles had pushed the torture too far, and produced an effect which had not been in his plan. By showing himself hopelessly unmanageable he had made Bulstrode feel that a strong defiance was the only resource left. After taking Raffles to bed that night the banker ordered his closed carriage to be ready at half-past seven the next morning. At six o’clock he had already been long dressed, and had spent some of his wretchedness in prayer, pleading his motives for averting the worst evil if in anything he had used falsity and spoken what was not true before God. For Bulstrode shrank from a direct lie with an intensity disproportionate to the number of his more indirect misdeeds. But many of these misdeeds were like the subtle muscular movements which are not taken account of in the consciousness, though they bring about the end that we fix our mind on and desire. And it is only what we are vividly conscious of that we can vividly imagine to be seen by Omniscience.
这样一来，莱佛士的酷刑就太过分了，并且产生了他计划之外的效果。通过表现出自己无可救药的难以控制，布尔斯特罗德感到强烈的反抗是唯一剩下的资源。当晚带莱佛士上床睡觉后，银行家命令他的封闭式马车在第二天早上七点半准备好。六点钟的时候，他已经穿好衣服，在祈祷中度过了一些痛苦的时光，如果他在上帝面前有任何虚假和不真实的言论，他会恳求他避免最严重的邪恶的动机。因为布尔斯特罗德不敢直接说谎，其程度与他间接的不当行为的数量不成比例。但是，许多这些恶行就像微妙的肌肉运动一样，尽管它们带来了我们所关注和渴望的结果，但并未被意识所考虑。只有我们清楚地意识到的东西，我们才能清楚地想象被全知所看到。

Bulstrode carried his candle to the bedside of Raffles, who was apparently in a painful dream. He stood silent, hoping that the presence of the light would serve to waken the sleeper gradually and gently, for he feared some noise as the consequence of a too sudden awakening. He had watched for a couple of minutes or more the shudderings and pantings which seemed likely to end in waking, when Raffles, with a long half-stifled moan, started up and stared round him in terror, trembling and gasping. But he made no further noise, and Bulstrode, setting down the candle, awaited his recovery.
布尔斯特罗德拿着蜡烛走到莱佛士的床边，莱佛士显然正处于痛苦的梦中。他静静地站着，希望灯光的出现能够逐渐地、轻轻地叫醒熟睡的人，因为他担心突然醒来会产生噪音。他观察了几分钟或更长时间的颤抖和喘息，似乎最终会醒来，这时莱佛士发出一声半窒息的长长的呻吟，惊恐地注视着他周围，浑身颤抖，喘着粗气。但他没有再发出任何声音，布尔斯特罗德放下蜡烛，等待他康复。

It was a quarter of an hour later before Bulstrode, with a cold peremptoriness of manner which he had not before shown, said, ‘I came to call you thus early, Mr. Raffles, because I have ordered the carriage to be ready at half-past seven, and intend myself to conduct you as far as Ilsely, where you can either take the railway or await a coach.’ Raffles was about to speak, but Bulstrode anticipated him imperiously with the words, ‘Be silent, sir, and hear what I have to say. I shall supply you with money now, and I will furnish you with a reasonable sum from time to time, on your application to me by letter; but if you choose to present yourself here again, if you return to Middlemarch, if you use your tongue in a manner injurious to me, you will have to live on such fruits as your malice can bring you, without help from me. Nobody will pay you well for blasting my name: I know the worst you can do against me, and I shall brave it if you dare to thrust yourself upon me again. Get up, sir, and do as I order you, without noise, or I will send for a policeman to take you off my premises, and you may carry your stories into every pothouse in the town, but you shall have no sixpence from me to pay your expenses there.’
一刻钟后，布尔斯特罗德以一种他以前从未表现过的冷酷专横的态度说道：“莱佛士先生，我这么早就来打电话给你，因为我已经命令马车在半点准备好。” ——七点多了，我打算带你一直到伊尔瑟利，在那里你可以坐火车，也可以等长途汽车。”莱佛士正要说话，但布尔斯特罗德在他面前专横地说道：“保持沉默，先生，然后听听我要说的话。我现在将为您提供资金，并且根据您向我写信提出的申请，我将不时向您提供合理的金额；但如果你选择再次出现在这里，如果你回到米德尔马奇，如果你以伤害我的方式使用你的舌头，你将不得不靠你的恶意给你带来的果实生活，而无需我的帮助。没有人会因为你诽谤我的名声而付给你丰厚的报酬：我知道你可以对我做最坏的事情，如果你敢再次把自己推向我，我将勇敢面对。起床，先生，按照我的命令做，不要发出任何噪音，否则我会派一名警察把你带离我的住所，你可以把你的故事带到镇上的每个酒馆，但我不会给你六便士支付你在那里的费用。

Bulstrode had rarely in his life spoken with such nervous energy: he had been deliberating on this speech and its probable effects through a large part of the night; and though he did not trust to its ultimately saving him from any return of Raffles, he had concluded that it was the best throw he could make. It succeeded in enforcing submission from the jaded man this morning: his empoisoned system at this moment quailed before Bulstrode’s cold, resolute bearing, and he was taken off quietly in the carriage before the family breakfast time. The servants imagined him to be a poor relation, and were not surprised that a strict man like their master, who held his head high in the world, should be ashamed of such a cousin and want to get rid of him. The banker’s drive of ten miles with his hated companion was a dreary beginning of the Christmas day; but at the end of the drive, Raffles had recovered his spirits, and parted in a contentment for which there was the good reason that the banker had given him a hundred pounds. Various motives urged Bulstrode to this open-handedness, but he did not himself inquire closely into all of them. As he had stood watching Raffles in his uneasy sleep, it had certainly entered his mind that the man had been much shattered since the first gift of two hundred pounds.
布尔斯特罗德一生中很少以如此紧张的状态发表讲话：他花了整个晚上的大部分时间来思考这次演讲及其可能产生的影响；虽然他不相信这最终能拯救他免于莱佛士的回归，但他得出的结论是，这是他能做出的最好的投掷。今天早上，它成功地迫使这个疲惫不堪的男人屈服了：他的中毒系统在布尔斯特罗德冷酷而坚决的举止面前颤抖了，在家庭早餐时间之前，他被悄悄地带上了马车。仆人们都以为他是一个穷亲戚，对于像他们的主人这样一位在世上昂首阔步的严格人竟然对这样的表弟感到羞耻并想要除掉他并不奇怪。银行家和他讨厌的同伴驱车十英里，度过了圣诞节的一个沉闷的开始。但在开车结束时，莱佛士恢复了精神，心满意足地分手了，银行家给了他一百英镑，这是有充分理由的。多种动机促使布尔斯特罗德做出这种慷慨的举动，但他本人并没有仔细探究所有这些动机。当他站在那里看着莱佛士睡得不安稳时，他肯定想到，自从收到第一笔两百英镑的礼物以来，这个人已经崩溃了。

He had taken care to repeat the incisive statement of his resolve not to be played on any more; and had tried to penetrate Raffles with the fact that he had shown the risks of bribing him to be quite equal to the risks of defying him. But when, freed from his repulsive presence, Bulstrode returned to his quiet home, he brought with him no confidence that he had secured more than a respite. It was as if he had had a loathsome dream, and could not shake off its images with their hateful kindred of sensations—as if on all the pleasant surroundings of his life a dangerous reptile had left his slimy traces.
他小心翼翼地重复了一次尖锐的声明，表明他决心不再被玩弄。并试图向莱佛士灌输这样一个事实：他已经表明，贿赂他的风险与违抗他的风险相当。但是，当布尔斯特罗德从令人厌恶的存在中解脱出来，回到他安静的家时，他并没有带来任何信心，认为自己得到的不仅仅是一个喘息的机会。就好像他做了一个令人厌恶的梦，无法摆脱它的形象和它们令人憎恶的感觉——仿佛在他生活中所有愉快的环境中，有一只危险的爬行动物留下了他的粘糊糊的痕迹。

Who can know how much of his most inward life is made up of the thoughts he believes other men to have about him, until that fabric of opinion is threatened with ruin?
谁能知道他最内心的生活有多少是由他相信其他人对他的想法组成的，直到这种观点结构受到毁灭的威胁？

Bulstrode was only the more conscious that there was a deposit of uneasy presentiment in his wife’s mind, because she carefully avoided any allusion to it. He had been used every day to taste the flavor of supremacy and the tribute of complete deference: and the certainty that he was watched or measured with a hidden suspicion of his having some discreditable secret, made his voice totter when he was speaking to edification. Foreseeing, to men of Bulstrode’s anxious temperament, is often worse than seeing; and his imagination continually heightened the anguish of an imminent disgrace. Yes, imminent; for if his defiance of Raffles did not keep the man away—and though he prayed for this result he hardly hoped for it—the disgrace was certain. In vain he said to himself that, if permitted, it would be a divine visitation, a chastisement, a preparation; he recoiled from the imagined burning; and he judged that it must be more for the Divine glory that he should escape dishonor. That recoil had at last urged him to make preparations for quitting Middlemarch. If evil truth must be reported of him, he would then be at a less scorching distance from the contempt of his old neighbors; and in a new scene, where his life would not have gathered the same wide sensibility, the tormentor, if he pursued him, would be less formidable. To leave the place finally would, he knew, be extremely painful to his wife, and on other grounds he would have preferred to stay where he had struck root. Hence he made his preparations at first in a conditional way, wishing to leave on all sides an opening for his return after brief absence, if any favorable intervention of Providence should dissipate his fears. He was preparing to transfer his management of the Bank, and to give up any active control of other commercial affairs in the neighborhood, on the ground of his failing health, but without excluding his future resumption of such work. The measure would cause him some added expense and some diminution of income beyond what he had already undergone from the general depression of trade; and the Hospital presented itself as a principal object of outlay on which he could fairly economize.
布尔斯特罗德更加意识到他妻子心里有一种不安的预感，因为她小心翼翼地避免提及此事。他每天都被用来品尝至高无上的滋味和完全服从的贡品：而他确信自己受到监视或测量，怀疑他有一些不光彩的秘密，这使得他在谈到教诲时声音颤抖。对于像布尔斯特罗德那样焦虑的人来说，预见往往比亲眼所见更糟糕。他的想象不断地加剧了迫在眉睫的耻辱带来的痛苦。是的，迫在眉睫；因为如果他对莱佛士的蔑视没有让这个人远离他——尽管他祈祷这个结果，但他几乎不希望如此——那么耻辱是肯定的。他徒劳地对自己说，如果允许的话，这将是一次神圣的眷顾、一次惩罚、一次准备；但他徒劳地对自己说，如果允许的话，这将是一次神圣的降临、一次惩罚、一次准备。他因想象中的燃烧而退缩。他断定，他应该逃避耻辱，这一定是为了神圣的荣耀。这种反感最终促使他为离开米德尔马契做好准备。如果一定要报道他的邪恶真相，那么他就不会受到老邻居的蔑视。在一个新的场景中，他的生活不会聚集同样广泛的情感，如果折磨者追赶他，他就会变得不那么可怕。他知道，最终离开这个地方会给他的妻子带来极大的痛苦，而且出于其他原因，他宁愿留在他扎根的地方。因此，他一开始就做了有条件的准备，希望给各方留下一个机会，让他在短暂缺席后返回，如果上天有任何有利的干预，能够消除他的恐惧的话。 他正准备以健康状况不佳为由，移交银行的管理权，并放弃对附近其他商业事务的任何主动控制，但不排除他将来恢复此类工作。这项措施将给他带来一些额外的开支和一些收入的减少，而这些都超出了他已经因贸易普遍萧条而遭受的损失。医院本身就是一个主要的支出对象，他可以相当节省。

This was the experience which had determined his conversation with Lydgate. But at this time his arrangements had most of them gone no farther than a stage at which he could recall them if they proved to be unnecessary. He continually deferred the final steps; in the midst of his fears, like many a man who is in danger of shipwreck or of being dashed from his carriage by runaway horses, he had a clinging impression that something would happen to hinder the worst, and that to spoil his life by a late transplantation might be over-hasty—especially since it was difficult to account satisfactorily to his wife for the project of their indefinite exile from the only place where she would like to live.
正是这段经历决定了他与利德盖特的谈话。但此时他的安排大部分都只到了一个阶段，如果证明没有必要，他可以召回它们。他不断地推迟最后的步骤。在他的恐惧之中，就像许多面临海难或被失控的马从马车上冲下来的危险的人一样，他有一种执着的印象，认为会发生一些最坏的事情，并且会因某种原因而毁掉他的生活。迟到的移植可能过于仓促——尤其是因为很难向他的妻子满意地解释他们无限期流放出她唯一想居住的地方的计划。

Among the affairs Bulstrode had to care for, was the management of the farm at Stone Court in case of his absence; and on this as well as on all other matters connected with any houses and land he possessed in or about Middlemarch, he had consulted Caleb Garth. Like every one else who had business of that sort, he wanted to get the agent who was more anxious for his employer’s interests than his own. With regard to Stone Court, since Bulstrode wished to retain his hold on the stock, and to have an arrangement by which he himself could, if he chose, resume his favorite recreation of superintendence, Caleb had advised him not to trust to a mere bailiff, but to let the land, stock, and implements yearly, and take a proportionate share of the proceeds.
布尔斯特罗德必须处理的事务之一是在他不在的情况下管理斯通庭院的农场。在这件事上，以及与他在米德尔马契或附近拥有的任何房屋和土地有关的所有其他问题上，他都咨询过凯莱布·加思。和其他从事此类业务的人一样，他希望找到一个更关心雇主利益而不是自己利益的代理人。至于斯通考特，由于布尔斯特罗德希望保留他对股票的持有，并希望做出一项安排，如果他愿意的话，他自己可以恢复他最喜欢的监管娱乐，凯莱布建议他不要信任一个单纯的法警，但每年出租土地、牲畜和农具，并按比例分享收益。

‘May I trust to you to find me a tenant on these terms, Mr. Garth?’ said Bulstrode. ‘And will you mention to me the yearly sum which would repay you for managing these affairs which we have discussed together?’
“加思先生，我可以相信你会按照这些条件为我找到一个租客吗？”布尔斯特罗德说。 “你能告诉我，每年你处理这些我们已经讨论过的事务的报酬是多少吗？”

‘I’ll think about it,’ said Caleb, in his blunt way. ‘I’ll see how I can make it out.’
“我会考虑一下，”凯莱布直言不讳地说。 “我会看看怎样才能解决这个问题。”

If it had not been that he had to consider Fred Vincy’s future, Mr. Garth would not probably have been glad of any addition to his work, of which his wife was always fearing an excess for him as he grew older. But on quitting Bulstrode after that conversation, a very alluring idea occurred to him about this said letting of Stone Court. What if Bulstrode would agree to his placing Fred Vincy there on the understanding that he, Caleb Garth, should be responsible for the management? It would be an excellent schooling for Fred; he might make a modest income there, and still have time left to get knowledge by helping in other business. He mentioned his notion to Mrs. Garth with such evident delight that she could not bear to chill his pleasure by expressing her constant fear of his undertaking too much.
如果不是他必须考虑弗雷德·文西的未来，加斯先生可能不会因为他的工作而感到高兴，他的妻子总是担心随着他年龄的增长，他的工作会变得多余。但在那次谈话后，布尔斯特罗德辞职了，他突然想到了一个非常诱人的想法，那就是出租斯通法院。如果布尔斯特罗德同意将弗雷德·文西安排在那里，但前提是他，凯莱布·加思，应该负责管理，该怎么办？对于弗雷德来说，这将是一次很好的教育；他可能会在那里获得微薄的收入，并且仍然有时间通过​​帮助其他业务来获取知识。他向加思夫人提到他的想法时，心情如此明显，以至于她不忍心过多地表达她对他的事业的持续恐惧，从而浇灭他的喜悦。

‘The lad would be as happy as two,’ he said, throwing himself back in his chair, and looking radiant, ‘if I could tell him it was all settled. Think; Susan! His mind had been running on that place for years before old Featherstone died. And it would be as pretty a turn of things as could be that he should hold the place in a good industrious way after all—by his taking to business. For it’s likely enough Bulstrode might let him go on, and gradually buy the stock. He hasn’t made up his mind, I can see, whether or not he shall settle somewhere else as a lasting thing. I never was better pleased with a notion in my life. And then the children might be married by-and-by, Susan.’
“如果我能告诉他一切都解决了，那小伙子会高兴得像两个人一样，”他靠回椅子上说道，看上去容光焕发。思考;苏珊！在老费瑟斯通去世之前，他的思绪已经在那个地方运转了很多年。毕竟，他应该以一种勤奋的方式——通过他的生意来保住这个位置，这将是一个非常好的转折。因为布尔斯特罗德很可能会让他继续下去，并逐渐购买股票。我看得出来，他还没有决定是否要在其他地方永久定居。我从来没有对我一生中的一个想法感到如此满意。然后孩子们可能很快就会结婚，苏珊。”

‘You will not give any hint of the plan to Fred, until you are sure that Bulstrode would agree to the plan?’ said Mrs. Garth, in a tone of gentle caution. ‘And as to marriage, Caleb, we old people need not help to hasten it.’
“在你确信布尔斯特罗德会同意这个计划之前，你不会向弗雷德透露这个计划的任何暗示吗？”加斯太太用温和谨慎的语气说道。 “至于婚姻，凯莱布，我们这些老年人不需要帮助来加速它。”

‘Oh, I don’t know,’ said Caleb, swinging his head aside. ‘Marriage is a taming thing. Fred would want less of my bit and bridle. However, I shall say nothing till I know the ground I’m treading on. I shall speak to Bulstrode again.’
“哦，我不知道，”凯莱布一边说，一边把头扭到一边。 “婚姻是一件驯服的事情。弗雷德会少想要我的马衔和缰绳。然而，在我了解自己的立场之前，我不会说什么。我将再次与布尔斯特罗德通话。

He took his earliest opportunity of doing so. Bulstrode had anything but a warm interest in his nephew Fred Vincy, but he had a strong wish to secure Mr. Garth’s services on many scattered points of business at which he was sure to be a considerable loser, if they were under less conscientious management. On that ground he made no objection to Mr. Garth’s proposal; and there was also another reason why he was not sorry to give a consent which was to benefit one of the Vincy family. It was that Mrs. Bulstrode, having heard of Lydgate’s debts, had been anxious to know whether her husband could not do something for poor Rosamond, and had been much troubled on learning from him that Lydgate’s affairs were not easily remediable, and that the wisest plan was to let them ‘take their course.’ Mrs. Bulstrode had then said for the first time, ‘I think you are always a little hard towards my family, Nicholas. And I am sure I have no reason to deny any of my relatives. Too worldly they may be, but no one ever had to say that they were not respectable.’
他抓住了最早的机会这样做。布尔斯特罗德对他的侄子弗雷德·文西一点也不感兴趣，但他强烈希望在许多分散的业务点上获得加斯先生的服务，如果这些业务点管理不那么认真的话，他肯定会成为一个相当大的失败者。基于此，他对加斯先生的提议没有提出异议。他不惜同意的还有一个原因，那就是为了文西家族的一个人的利益。布尔斯特罗德夫人听说了利德盖特的债务，一直急切地想知道她的丈夫是否能为可怜的罗莎蒙德做点什么，并且从他那里得知利德盖特的事情不容易补救，而且最聪明的人也很担心。计划是让他们“顺其自然。”布尔斯特罗德夫人第一次说道，“我认为你对我的家人总是有点严厉，尼古拉斯。”我确信我没有理由拒绝我的任何亲戚。他们可能太世俗了，但没有人不得不说他们不值得尊敬。

‘My dear Harriet,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, wincing under his wife’s eyes, which were filling with tears, ‘I have supplied your brother with a great deal of capital. I cannot be expected to take care of his married children.’
“我亲爱的哈丽特，”布尔斯特罗德先生说，他在妻子眼中满含泪水，皱起眉头，“我已经为你哥哥提供了大量资金。”我不能指望照顾他已婚的孩子。

That seemed to be true, and Mrs. Bulstrode’s remonstrance subsided into pity for poor Rosamond, whose extravagant education she had always foreseen the fruits of.
这似乎是真的，布尔斯特罗德夫人的抗议渐渐变成了对可怜的罗莎蒙德的怜悯，她一直预见到罗莎蒙德的奢侈教育会带来成果。

But remembering that dialogue, Mr. Bulstrode felt that when he had to talk to his wife fully about his plan of quitting Middlemarch, he should be glad to tell her that he had made an arrangement which might be for the good of her nephew Fred. At present he had merely mentioned to her that he thought of shutting up The Shrubs for a few months, and taking a house on the Southern Coast.
但回忆起那次对话，布尔斯特罗德先生觉得，当他必须与妻子充分讨论他离开米德尔马契的计划时，他应该很高兴告诉她，他已经做出了一项安排，这可能是为了她的侄子弗雷德的利益。目前他只是向她提到他想把灌木丛关闭几个月，然后在南海岸买一栋房子。

Hence Mr. Garth got the assurance he desired, namely, that in case of Bulstrode’s departure from Middlemarch for an indefinite time, Fred Vincy should be allowed to have the tenancy of Stone Court on the terms proposed.
因此，加思先生得到了他想要的保证，即，如果布尔斯特罗德无限期地离开米德尔马奇，弗雷德·文西应该被允许按照提议的条款租赁斯通法院。

Caleb was so elated with his hope of this ‘neat turn’ being given to things, that if his self-control had not been braced by a little affectionate wifely scolding, he would have betrayed everything to Mary, wanting ‘to give the child comfort.’ However, he restrained himself, and kept in strict privacy from Fred certain visits which he was making to Stone Court, in order to look more thoroughly into the state of the land and stock, and take a preliminary estimate. He was certainly more eager in these visits than the probable speed of events required him to be; but he was stimulated by a fatherly delight in occupying his mind with this bit of probable happiness which he held in store like a hidden birthday gift for Fred and Mary.
迦勒对事情能得到这种“巧妙的转变”感到非常高兴，如果他的自制力没有受到妻子的一点深情责骂的支撑，他就会向玛丽背叛一切，想要“给孩子安慰”然而，他克制住了自己，并对弗雷德严格保密了他前往石苑的某些访问，以便更彻底地了解土地和牲畜的状况，并进行初步估计。他对这些访问的渴望肯定超出了事件可能发生的速度所要求的。但他被一种父亲般的喜悦所刺激，他全神贯注于这种可能的幸福，他把它当作送给弗雷德和玛丽的一份隐藏的生日礼物。

‘But suppose the whole scheme should turn out to be a castle in the air?’ said Mrs. Garth.
“但是假设整个计划最终只是空中楼阁呢？”加斯夫人说道。

‘Well, well,’ replied Caleb; ‘the castle will tumble about nobody’s head.’
“好吧，好吧，”迦勒回答道。 “城堡不会从任何人的头上翻滚。”

CHAPTER LXIX
第 69 章

‘If thou hast heard a word, let it die with thee.’
“如果你听到了一句话，就让它和你一起死去吧。”

—Ecclesiasticus.
——《传道书》。

Mr. Bulstrode was still seated in his manager’s room at the Bank, about three o’clock of the same day on which he had received Lydgate there, when the clerk entered to say that his horse was waiting, and also that Mr. Garth was outside and begged to speak with him.
布尔斯特罗德先生仍然坐在银行经理的房间里，大约是在他在那里接待利德盖特的当天三点左右，这时职员进来说他的马正在等待，而且加思先生正在等待。到了外面并请求与他交谈。

‘By all means,’ said Bulstrode; and Caleb entered. ‘Pray sit down, Mr. Garth,’ continued the banker, in his suavest tone.
“无论如何，”布尔斯特罗德说。迦勒进来了。 “请坐下，加斯先生，”银行家用最温和的语气继续说道。

‘I am glad that you arrived just in time to find me here. I know you count your minutes.’
“我很高兴你来得及时，找到了我。我知道你会计算你的分钟数。

‘Oh,’ said Caleb, gently, with a slow swing of his head on one side, as he seated himself and laid his hat on the floor.
“哦，”凯莱布轻轻地说，他的头慢慢地偏向一侧，然后坐下来，把帽子放在地板上。

He looked at the ground, leaning forward and letting his long fingers droop between his legs, while each finger moved in succession, as if it were sharing some thought which filled his large quiet brow.
他看着地面，身体前倾，修长的手指垂在两腿之间，每根手指都在连续地移动，仿佛在分享他那大而安静的眉毛中的某种想法。

Mr. Bulstrode, like every one else who knew Caleb, was used to his slowness in beginning to speak on any topic which he felt to be important, and rather expected that he was about to recur to the buying of some houses in Blindman’s Court, for the sake of pulling them down, as a sacrifice of property which would be well repaid by the influx of air and light on that spot. It was by propositions of this kind that Caleb was sometimes troublesome to his employers; but he had usually found Bulstrode ready to meet him in projects of improvement, and they had got on well together. When he spoke again, however, it was to say, in rather a subdued voice—
布尔斯特罗德先生，像其他认识凯勒布的人一样，习惯了他在开始谈论他认为重要的任何话题时的缓慢，并且预计他将再次谈到在盲人法院购买一些房屋的问题，为了把它们拉下来，作为一种财产的牺牲，当空气和光线涌入该地点时，就会得到很好的回报。正是通过这种提议，迦勒有时给他的雇主带来了麻烦。但他通常会发现布尔斯特罗德准备好在改进项目上与他会面，而且他们相处得很好。然而，当他再次开口时，却用一种相当压抑的声音说——

‘I have just come away from Stone Court, Mr. Bulstrode.’
“布尔斯特罗德先生，我刚刚从斯通考特回来。”

‘You found nothing wrong there, I hope,’ said the banker; ‘I was there myself yesterday. Abel has done well with the lambs this year.’
“我希望你没有发现任何问题，”银行家说。 “昨天我本人也在场。亚伯今年的羔羊表现得很好。

‘Why, yes,’ said Caleb, looking up gravely, ‘there is something wrong— a stranger, who is very ill, I think. He wants a doctor, and I came to tell you of that. His name is Raffles.’
“啊，是的，”凯莱布严肃地抬起头说道，“有什么不对劲——我想是一个陌生人，他病得很重。”他想要一名医生，我是来告诉你这件事的。他的名字叫莱佛士。

He saw the shock of his words passing through Bulstrode’s frame. On this subject the banker had thought that his fears were too constantly on the watch to be taken by surprise; but he had been mistaken.
他看到自己的话让布尔斯特罗德感到震惊。在这个问题上，银行家认为他的恐惧始终处于警惕之中，因此不应感到意外。但他错了。

‘Poor wretch!’ he said in a compassionate tone, though his lips trembled a little. ‘Do you know how he came there?’
“可怜的家伙！”他用同情的语气说道，尽管他的嘴唇有点颤抖。 “你知道他是怎么到那里的吗？”

‘I took him myself,’ said Caleb, quietly—‘took him up in my gig. He had got down from the coach, and was walking a little beyond the turning from the toll-house, and I overtook him. He remembered seeing me with you once before, at Stone Court, and he asked me to take him on. I saw he was ill: it seemed to me the right thing to do, to carry him under shelter. And now I think you should lose no time in getting advice for him.’ Caleb took up his hat from the floor as he ended, and rose slowly from his seat.
“我亲自带他来的，”凯莱布平静地说——“在我的演出中带他来的。”他下了车，在收费站的转弯处稍远一点的地方，我超越了他。他记得以前在Stone Court见过我和你在一起，他让我和他较量一下。我看到他病了：在我看来，把他带到庇护所是正确的做法。现在我认为你应该立即为他寻求建议。” 结束时，凯莱布从地板上拿起帽子，慢慢地从座位上站起来。

‘Certainly,’ said Bulstrode, whose mind was very active at this moment. ‘Perhaps you will yourself oblige me, Mr. Garth, by calling at Mr. Lydgate’s as you pass—or stay! he may at this hour probably be at the Hospital. I will first send my man on the horse there with a note this instant, and then I will myself ride to Stone Court.’
“当然，”布尔斯特罗德说，此时他的思维非常活跃。 “加斯先生，也许你会在经过或停留时去利德盖特先生那里拜访一下！”他这个时间可能在医院。我现在就先派我的人带着纸条过去，然后我自己骑马去石庭。

Bulstrode quickly wrote a note, and went out himself to give the commission to his man. When he returned, Caleb was standing as before with one hand on the back of the chair, holding his hat with the other. In Bulstrode’s mind the dominant thought was, ‘Perhaps Raffles only spoke to Garth of his illness. Garth may wonder, as he must have done before, at this disreputable fellow’s claiming intimacy with me; but he will know nothing. And he is friendly to me— I can be of use to him.’
布尔斯特罗德很快写了一张便条，然后亲自出去将委托交给了他的手下。当他回来时，凯莱布像以前一样站着，一只手放在椅背上，另一只手拿着帽子。在布尔斯特罗德的脑海里，主要的想法是，“也许莱佛士只向加斯讲述了他的病情。”加斯可能会像他以前一样，对这个声名狼藉的家伙声称与我有亲密关系感到惊讶。但他什么也不知道。他对我很友好——我可以对他有用。

He longed for some confirmation of this hopeful conjecture, but to have asked any question as to what Raffles had said or done would have been to betray fear.
他渴望得到这一充满希望的猜想的证实，但对莱佛士所说或所做的事情提出任何问题都会暴露恐惧。

‘I am exceedingly obliged to you, Mr. Garth,’ he said, in his usual tone of politeness. ‘My servant will be back in a few minutes, and I shall then go myself to see what can be done for this unfortunate man. Perhaps you had some other business with me? If so, pray be seated.’
“我非常感谢你，加斯先生，”他用一贯的礼貌语气说道。 “我的仆人几分钟后就会回来，然后我会亲自去看看能为这个不幸的人做些什么。也许你找我还有别的事？如果是这样，请坐下。

‘Thank you,’ said Caleb, making a slight gesture with his right hand to waive the invitation. ‘I wish to say, Mr. Bulstrode, that I must request you to put your business into some other hands than mine. I am obliged to you for your handsome way of meeting me— about the letting of Stone Court, and all other business. But I must give it up.’ A sharp certainty entered like a stab into Bulstrode’s soul.
“谢谢你，”凯莱布说，并用右手做了一个轻微的手势，表示放弃邀请。 “我想说，布尔斯特罗德先生，我必须请求您将您的生意交到我以外的其他人手中。”我非常感谢你以帅气的方式与我会面——关于石苑的出租，以及所有其他事务。但我必须放弃。”一种尖锐的确定性像刺入布尔斯特罗德的灵魂。

‘This is sudden, Mr. Garth,’ was all he could say at first.
“这太突然了，加斯先生。”一开始他只能这么说。

‘It is,’ said Caleb; ‘but it is quite fixed. I must give it up.’
“是的，”迦勒说。 '但它是相当固定的。我必须放弃它。

He spoke with a firmness which was very gentle, and yet he could see that Bulstrode seemed to cower under that gentleness, his face looking dried and his eyes swerving away from the glance which rested on him. Caleb felt a deep pity for him, but he could have used no pretexts to account for his resolve, even if they would have been of any use.
他说话的语气很坚定，但又很温柔，但他能看出布尔斯特罗德似乎在这种温柔之下畏缩了，他的脸看起来干燥，眼睛从落在他身上的目光移开。迦勒对他感到深深的怜悯，但他不能用任何借口来解释他的决心，即使它们有任何用处。

‘You have been led to this, I apprehend, by some slanders concerning me uttered by that unhappy creature,’ said Bulstrode, anxious now to know the utmost.
“我想，你是因为那个不幸的人对我的一些诽谤而导致了这一切。”布尔斯特罗德说道，他现在急于想知道到底。

‘That is true. I can’t deny that I act upon what I heard from him.’
'那是真实的。我不能否认我是按照从他那里听到的去做的。

‘You are a conscientious man, Mr. Garth—a man, I trust, who feels himself accountable to God. You would not wish to injure me by being too ready to believe a slander,’ said Bulstrode, casting about for pleas that might be adapted to his hearer’s mind. ‘That is a poor reason for giving up a connection which I think I may say will be mutually beneficial.’
“你是一个有责任心的人，加斯先生——我相信，你是一个觉得自己对上帝负责的人。”你不会希望因为太容易相信诽谤而伤害我。”布尔斯特罗德一边说，一边寻找可能适合听众想法的恳求。 “这是放弃联系的一个糟糕的理由，我认为我可以说这对双方都有利。”

‘I would injure no man if I could help it,’ said Caleb; ‘even if I thought God winked at it. I hope I should have a feeling for my fellow-creature. But, sir—I am obliged to believe that this Raffles has told me the truth. And I can’t be happy in working with you, or profiting by you. It hurts my mind. I must beg you to seek another agent.’
“如果可以的话，我不会伤害任何人，”迦勒说。 “即使我认为上帝对它眨眼了。我希望我对我的同胞有感情。但是，先生——我不得不相信这个莱佛士告诉了我真相。我无法快乐地与你合作，或从你身上获利。这让我很伤心。我必须恳求你寻找另一位代理人。

‘Very well, Mr. Garth. But I must at least claim to know the worst that he has told you. I must know what is the foul speech that I am liable to be the victim of,’ said Bulstrode, a certain amount of anger beginning to mingle with his humiliation before this quiet man who renounced his benefits.
“很好，加斯先生。但我至少必须声称知道他告诉你的最坏的情况。 “我必须知道我可能会成为哪些脏话的受害者。”布尔斯特罗德说道，在这个放弃福利的安静男人面前，他的羞辱开始与愤怒交织在一起。

‘That’s needless,’ said Caleb, waving his hand, bowing his head slightly, and not swerving from the tone which had in it the merciful intention to spare this pitiable man. ‘What he has said to me will never pass from my lips, unless something now unknown forces it from me. If you led a harmful life for gain, and kept others out of their rights by deceit, to get the more for yourself, I dare say you repent— you would like to go back, and can’t: that must be a bitter thing’— Caleb paused a moment and shook his head—‘it is not for me to make your life harder to you.’
“没必要，”凯莱布挥挥手，微微低着头说道，语气中带着仁慈的意图，想要饶恕这个可怜的人。 “他对我说的话永远不会从我嘴里说出来，除非现在有什么未知的事情迫使我说出这些话。如果你为了利益而过着有害的生活，为了自己得到更多的利益而欺骗他人，我敢说你悔改了——你想回去，但不能回去，那一定是一件痛苦的事情”——迦勒停顿了一下，摇摇头——“我不应该让你的生活变得更加艰难。”

‘But you do—you do make it harder to me,’ said Bulstrode constrained into a genuine, pleading cry. ‘You make it harder to me by turning your back on me.’
“但是你确实——你确实让我变得更难了，”布尔斯特罗德说道，他的声音被迫真诚地恳求着。 “你背对着我，让我更难受。”

‘That I’m forced to do,’ said Caleb, still more gently, lifting up his hand. ‘I am sorry. I don’t judge you and say, he is wicked, and I am righteous. God forbid. I don’t know everything. A man may do wrong, and his will may rise clear out of it, though he can’t get his life clear. That’s a bad punishment. If it is so with you,— well, I’m very sorry for you. But I have that feeling inside me, that I can’t go on working with you. That’s all, Mr. Bulstrode. Everything else is buried, so far as my will goes. And I wish you good-day.’
“这是我被迫做的，”迦勒举起手，语气更加温和。 '对不起。我不会评判你说，他是邪恶的，而我是正义的。上帝禁止。我不知道一切。一个人可能会做错事，他的意志可能会因此而清晰起来，尽管他无法清楚地了解自己的生活。这是一个不好的惩罚。如果你也是这样的话——好吧，我为你感到非常抱歉。但我内心有一种感觉，我无法继续和你一起工作。就这些了，布尔斯特罗德先生。就我的意愿而言，其他一切都被埋葬了。祝你日安。

‘One moment, Mr. Garth!’ said Bulstrode, hurriedly. ‘I may trust then to your solemn assurance that you will not repeat either to man or woman what—even if it have any degree of truth in it— is yet a malicious representation?’ Caleb’s wrath was stirred, and he said, indignantly—
“请稍等，加斯先生！”布尔斯特罗德急忙说道。 “那么我可以相信你庄严的保证，你不会向男人或女人重复那些——即使它有一定程度的真实性——仍然是恶意的陈述？”迦勒的愤怒被激起，他愤慨地说——

‘Why should I have said it if I didn’t mean it? I am in no fear of you. Such tales as that will never tempt my tongue.’
‘如果我不是故意的，我为什么要这么说呢？我不怕你。这样的故事永远不会诱惑我的舌头。

‘Excuse me—I am agitated—I am the victim of this abandoned man.’
“对不起——我很激动——我是这个被遗弃的人的受害者。”

‘Stop a bit! you have got to consider whether you didn’t help to make him worse, when you profited by his vices.’
「稍微停一下吧！你必须考虑一下，当你从他的恶习中获利时，你是否没有让他变得更糟。

‘You are wronging me by too readily believing him,’ said Bulstrode, oppressed, as by a nightmare, with the inability to deny flatly what Raffles might have said; and yet feeling it an escape that Caleb had not so stated it to him as to ask for that flat denial.
“你太容易相信他了，这是冤枉我了。”布尔斯特罗德说道，他的心情压抑得像一场噩梦，无法断然否认莱佛士可能说的话。然而，迦勒没有向他说出这件事，要求他断然否认，这让他觉得这是一种逃避。

‘No,’ said Caleb, lifting his hand deprecatingly; ‘I am ready to believe better, when better is proved. I rob you of no good chance. As to speaking, I hold it a crime to expose a man’s sin unless I’m clear it must be done to save the innocent. That is my way of thinking, Mr. Bulstrode, and what I say, I’ve no need to swear. I wish you good-day.’
“不，”凯勒布不屑地举起手说道。 “当更好的事情被证明时，我准备好相信更好的事情。我剥夺了你的好机会。至于说话，我认为揭露一个人的罪恶是一种犯罪，除非我明确必须这样做以拯救无辜者。这就是我的想法，布尔斯特罗德先生，我所说的，我没有必要发誓。祝你日安。

Some hours later, when he was at home, Caleb said to his wife, incidentally, that he had had some little differences with Bulstrode, and that in consequence, he had given up all notion of taking Stone Court, and indeed had resigned doing further business for him.
几个小时后，当他回到家时，凯莱布顺便对他的妻子说，他与布尔斯特罗德有一些小小的分歧，因此，他已经放弃了占领斯通法院的所有想法，并且实际上已经辞职了。为他做生意。

‘He was disposed to interfere too much, was he?’ said Mrs. Garth, imagining that her husband had been touched on his sensitive point, and not been allowed to do what he thought right as to materials and modes of work.
“他太爱干涉了，是吗？”加思夫人说，想象着她丈夫的敏感点被触动了，而且在材料和工作方式方面不被允许做他认为正确的事情。

‘Oh,’ said Caleb, bowing his head and waving his hand gravely. And Mrs. Garth knew that this was a sign of his not intending to speak further on the subject.
“哦，”凯莱布低下头，严肃地挥手说道。加斯夫人知道，这表明他不打算进一步谈论这个话题。

As for Bulstrode, he had almost immediately mounted his horse and set off for Stone Court, being anxious to arrive there before Lydgate.
至于布尔斯特罗德，他几乎立刻就骑上马，出发前往斯通庭院，急于在利德盖特之前到达那里。

His mind was crowded with images and conjectures, which were a language to his hopes and fears, just as we hear tones from the vibrations which shake our whole system. The deep humiliation with which he had winced under Caleb Garth’s knowledge of his past and rejection of his patronage, alternated with and almost gave way to the sense of safety in the fact that Garth, and no other, had been the man to whom Raffles had spoken. It seemed to him a sort of earnest that Providence intended his rescue from worse consequences; the way being thus left open for the hope of secrecy. That Raffles should be afflicted with illness, that he should have been led to Stone Court rather than elsewhere—Bulstrode’s heart fluttered at the vision of probabilities which these events conjured up. If it should turn out that he was freed from all danger of disgrace— if he could breathe in perfect liberty—his life should be more consecrated than it had ever been before. He mentally lifted up this vow as if it would urge the result he longed for— he tried to believe in the potency of that prayerful resolution— its potency to determine death. He knew that he ought to say, ‘Thy will be done;’ and he said it often. But the intense desire remained that the will of God might be the death of that hated man.
他的脑海里充满了图像和猜想，这些是他的希望和恐惧的语言，就像我们听到震动我们整个系统的振动的音调一样。凯莱布·加斯 (Caleb Garth) 了解他的过去并拒绝接受他的资助，他感到深深的羞辱，这种羞辱与安全感交替出现，几乎让位于他的安全感，因为加斯，而不是其他人，才是莱佛士所向往的人。说。在他看来，上帝有意将他从更糟糕的后果中拯救出来，这似乎是一种认真的态度。这条路就这样为保密的希望敞开了。莱佛士应该受到疾病的折磨，他应该被带到斯通庭院而不是其他地方——布尔斯特罗德一想到这些事件所带来的概率景象，心就颤抖起来。如果事实证明他摆脱了一切耻辱的危险——如果他能够呼吸完全的自由——他的生活应该比以前更加神圣。他在心里高举这个誓言，仿佛它会催促他渴望的结果——他试图相信那个虔诚的决心的力量——它决定死亡的力量。他知道他应该说：“愿你的旨意得以实现”；他也经常这么说。但强烈的愿望仍然存在，即上帝的旨意可能是杀死那个可恨的人。

Yet when he arrived at Stone Court he could not see the change in Raffles without a shock. But for his pallor and feebleness, Bulstrode would have called the change in him entirely mental. Instead of his loud tormenting mood, he showed an intense, vague terror, and seemed to deprecate Bulstrode’s anger, because the money was all gone—he had been robbed—it had half of it been taken from him. He had only come here because he was ill and somebody was hunting him— somebody was after him he had told nobody anything, he had kept his mouth shut. Bulstrode, not knowing the significance of these symptoms, interpreted this new nervous susceptibility into a means of alarming Raffles into true confessions, and taxed him with falsehood in saying that he had not told anything, since he had just told the man who took him up in his gig and brought him to Stone Court. Raffles denied this with solemn adjurations; the fact being that the links of consciousness were interrupted in him, and that his minute terror-stricken narrative to Caleb Garth had been delivered under a set of visionary impulses which had dropped back into darkness.
然而，当他到达石阁时，看到莱佛士的变化，他不禁感到震惊。如果不是因为他面色苍白且虚弱，布尔斯特罗德会称他的变化完全是精神上的。他没有表现出大声折磨人的情绪，而是表现出强烈的、模糊的恐惧，似乎对布尔斯特罗德的愤怒表示反对，因为钱全没了——他被抢劫了——一半的钱从他身上被拿走了。他来这里只是因为他病了，有人在追捕他——有人在追捕他，他没有告诉任何人任何事情，他闭嘴了。布尔斯特罗德不知道这些症状的重要性，他把这种新的神经敏感性解释为一种让莱佛士惊慌失措的手段，让他做出真正的坦白，并用谎言责备他，说他什么也没说，因为他刚刚告诉了带走他的那个人。把他带到了石苑。莱佛士郑重地否认了这一点。事实上，他的意识联系被中断了，他对凯莱布·加斯的那一分钟的、惊恐的叙述是在一系列幻象冲动的作用下传达的，而这种冲动又回到了黑暗中。

Bulstrode’s heart sank again at this sign that he could get no grasp over the wretched man’s mind, and that no word of Raffles could be trusted as to the fact which he most wanted to know, namely, whether or not he had really kept silence to every one in the neighborhood except Caleb Garth. The housekeeper had told him without the least constraint of manner that since Mr. Garth left, Raffles had asked her for beer, and after that had not spoken, seeming very ill. On that side it might be concluded that there had been no betrayal. Mrs. Abel thought, like the servants at The Shrubs, that the strange man belonged to the unpleasant ‘kin’ who are among the troubles of the rich; she had at first referred the kinship to Mr. Rigg, and where there was property left, the buzzing presence of such large blue-bottles seemed natural enough. How he could be ‘kin’ to Bulstrode as well was not so clear, but Mrs. Abel agreed with her husband that there was ‘no knowing,’ a proposition which had a great deal of mental food for her, so that she shook her head over it without further speculation.
布尔斯特罗德的心再次沉了下去，因为他无法掌握这个可怜人的思想，而关于他最想知道的事实，即他是否真的对他保持沉默，莱佛士的任何一句话都不能相信。附近的每一个人，除了凯勒·加思（Caleb Garth）。管家毫不客气地告诉他，自从加斯先生离开后，莱佛士就向她要啤酒，之后就没有再说话，看上去病得很重。从这一点来看，可以断定没有发生背叛。阿贝尔太太和灌木丛的仆人一样，认为这个奇怪的人属于那些令人不快的“亲戚”，他们是富人的麻烦中的一员。她起初把亲属关系提到了里格先生，而在还有财产的地方，如此大的蓝瓶蝴蝶嗡嗡作响的出现似乎是很自然的。他怎么可能也是布尔斯特罗德的“亲戚”，这一点还不清楚，但阿贝尔夫人同意她丈夫的观点，即“不知道”，这个主张对她来说有很大的精神食粮，所以她动摇了她的丈夫。不再进行进一步的猜测。

In less than an hour Lydgate arrived. Bulstrode met him outside the wainscoted parlor, where Raffles was, and said—
不到一个小时，利德盖特就到了。布尔斯特罗德在莱佛士所在的带壁板的客厅外遇见了他，并说道：

‘I have called you in, Mr. Lydgate, to an unfortunate man who was once in my employment, many years ago. Afterwards he went to America, and returned I fear to an idle dissolute life. Being destitute, he has a claim on me. He was slightly connected with Rigg, the former owner of this place, and in consequence found his way here. I believe he is seriously ill: apparently his mind is affected. I feel bound to do the utmost for him.’
“利德盖特先生，我把你叫到一个不幸的人那里，他多年前曾受雇于我。后来他去了美国，恐怕又回到了无所事事、放荡的生活。既然穷困潦倒，他就对我有要求。他和这个地方的前主人里格有些关系，所以才找到了这里。我相信他病得很重：显然他的精神受到了影响。我觉得有必要为他竭尽全力。”

Lydgate, who had the remembrance of his last conversation with Bulstrode strongly upon him, was not disposed to say an unnecessary word to him, and bowed slightly in answer to this account; but just before entering the room he turned automatically and said, ‘What is his name?’—to know names being as much a part of the medical man’s accomplishment as of the practical politician’s.
利德盖特对他与布尔斯特罗德的最后一次谈话记忆犹新，不想对他说任何不必要的话，并微微鞠了一躬以回应这一叙述。但就在进入房间之前，他不自觉地转身问道：“他叫什么名字？”——知道名字既是医生成就的一部分，也是务实政客成就的一部分。

‘Raffles, John Raffles,’ said Bulstrode, who hoped that whatever became of Raffles, Lydgate would never know any more of him.
“莱佛士，约翰·莱佛士。”布尔斯特罗德说道，他希望无论莱佛士怎么样，利德盖特都永远不会再了解他了。

When he had thoroughly examined and considered the patient, Lydgate ordered that he should go to bed, and be kept there in as complete quiet as possible, and then went with Bulstrode into another room.
当他对病人进行了彻底的检查和考虑后，利德盖特命令他去睡觉，并尽可能保持完全安静，然后和布尔斯特罗德一起走进另一个房间。

‘It is a serious case, I apprehend,’ said the banker, before Lydgate began to speak.
在利德盖特开始讲话之前，银行家说道：“我认为这是一个严重的案件。”

‘No—and yes,’ said Lydgate, half dubiously. ‘It is difficult to decide as to the possible effect of long-standing complications; but the man had a robust constitution to begin with. I should not expect this attack to be fatal, though of course the system is in a ticklish state. He should be well watched and attended to.’
“不——是的，”利德盖特半信半疑地说。 “很难确定长期并发症可能产生的影响；但这个人本来就有强健的体质。我不应该期望这次攻击是致命的，尽管系统当然处于一种棘手的状态。他应该受到很好的监视和照顾。

‘I will remain here myself,’ said Bulstrode. ‘Mrs. Abel and her husband are inexperienced. I can easily remain here for the night, if you will oblige me by taking a note for Mrs. Bulstrode.’
“我自己会留在这里，”布尔斯特罗德说。 '太太。亚伯和她的丈夫缺乏经验。如果你能帮我帮布尔斯特罗德夫人记个便条的话，我可以很容易地留在这里过夜。

‘I should think that is hardly necessary,’ said Lydgate. ‘He seems tame and terrified enough. He might become more unmanageable. But there is a man here—is there not?’
“我认为这几乎没有必要，”利德盖特说。 “他看上去既温顺又害怕。他可能会变得更加难以管理。但这里有一个人——不是吗？

‘I have more than once stayed here a few nights for the sake of seclusion,’ said Bulstrode, indifferently; ‘I am quite disposed to do so now. Mrs. Abel and her husband can relieve or aid me, if necessary.’
“我不止一次为了隐居而在这里住了几个晚上，”布尔斯特罗德冷漠地说。 “我现在很愿意这样做。如果有必要，阿贝尔夫人和她的丈夫可以缓解或帮助我。

‘Very well. Then I need give my directions only to you,’ said Lydgate, not feeling surprised at a little peculiarity in Bulstrode.
'很好。那么我只需要向你指示，”利德盖特说道，对于布尔斯特罗德的一点怪异并不感到惊讶。

‘You think, then, that the case is hopeful?’ said Bulstrode, when Lydgate had ended giving his orders.
“那么，你认为这个案子有希望吗？”利德盖特下完命令后，布尔斯特罗德说道。

‘Unless there turn out to be further complications, such as I have not at present detected—yes,’ said Lydgate. ‘He may pass on to a worse stage; but I should not wonder if ho got better in a few days, by adhering to the treatment I have prescribed. There must be firmness. Remember, if he calls for liquors of any sort, not to give them to him. In my opinion, men in his condition are oftener killed by treatment than by the disease. Still, new symptoms may arise. I shall come again to-morrow morning.’
“除非出现进一步的并发症，比如我目前尚未发现的情况——是的，”利德盖特说。 “他可能会进入更糟糕的阶段；但我不应该怀疑，通过坚持我规定的治疗，几天后他是否会好起来。一定要有坚定性。请记住，如果他要求任何种类的酒，不要给他。在我看来，像他这样的情况的人更多的是死于治疗而不是疾病。尽管如此，新的症状可能会出现。我明天早上再来。

After waiting for the note to be carried to Mrs. Bulstrode, Lydgate rode away, forming no conjectures, in the first instance, about the history of Raffles, but rehearsing the whole argument, which had lately been much stirred by the publication of Dr. Ware’s abundant experience in America, as to the right way of treating cases of alcoholic poisoning such as this. Lydgate, when abroad, had already been interested in this question: he was strongly convinced against the prevalent practice of allowing alcohol and persistently administering large doses of opium; and he had repeatedly acted on this conviction with a favorable result.
等待纸条被送到布尔斯特罗德夫人那里后，利德盖特骑马离开了，一开始并没有对莱佛士的历史做出任何猜测，而是演练了整个论证，最近由于莱佛士博士的出版而引起了很大的轰动。韦尔在美国对于如何正确治疗此类酒精中毒病例有着丰富的经验。利德盖特在国外时就已经对这个问题产生了兴趣：他坚决反对允许饮酒和持续服用大剂量鸦片的普遍做法；他曾多次根据这一信念采取行动，并取得了良好的结果。

‘The man is in a diseased state,’ he thought, ‘but there’s a good deal of wear in him still. I suppose he is an object of charity to Bulstrode. It is curious what patches of hardness and tenderness lie side by side in men’s dispositions. Bulstrode seems the most unsympathetic fellow I ever saw about some people, and yet he has taken no end of trouble, and spent a great deal of money, on benevolent objects. I suppose he has some test by which he finds out whom Heaven cares for—he has made up his mind that it doesn’t care for me.’
“这个人病了，”他想，“但他的身体仍然很疲惫。”我想他是布尔斯特罗德的慈善对象。令人好奇的是，男人的性情中同时存在着怎样的刚硬和温柔。布尔斯特罗德似乎是我见过的对某些人最没有同情心的人，但他却不厌其烦地为慈善事业花费了大量的金钱。我想他有一些测试，通过它可以发现上天在关心谁——他已经下定决心，上天不关心我了。

This streak of bitterness came from a plenteous source, and kept widening in the current of his thought as he neared Lowick Gate. He had not been there since his first interview with Bulstrode in the morning, having been found at the Hospital by the banker’s messenger; and for the first time he was returning to his home without the vision of any expedient in the background which left him a hope of raising money enough to deliver him from the coming destitution of everything which made his married life tolerable— everything which saved him and Rosamond from that bare isolation in which they would be forced to recognize how little of a comfort they could be to each other. It was more bearable to do without tenderness for himself than to see that his own tenderness could make no amends for the lack of other things to her. The sufferings of his own pride from humiliations past and to come were keen enough, yet they were hardly distinguishable to himself from that more acute pain which dominated them—the pain of foreseeing that Rosamond would come to regard him chiefly as the cause of disappointment and unhappiness to her. He had never liked the makeshifts of poverty, and they had never before entered into his prospects for himself; but he was beginning now to imagine how two creatures who loved each other, and had a stock of thoughts in common, might laugh over their shabby furniture, and their calculations how far they could afford butter and eggs. But the glimpse of that poetry seemed as far off from him as the carelessness of the golden age; in poor Rosamond’s mind there was not room enough for luxuries to look small in. He got down from his horse in a very sad mood, and went into the house, not expecting to be cheered except by his dinner, and reflecting that before the evening closed it would be wise to tell Rosamond of his application to Bulstrode and its failure. It would be well not to lose time in preparing her for the worst.
这股苦涩的情绪源源不断，随着他接近洛威克门，这种苦涩的情绪在他的思绪中不断扩大。自从早上第一次与布尔斯特罗德会面后，银行家的信使在医院里发现了他，之后他就再也没有去过那里。他第一次回到自己的家，没有任何权宜之计，这让他有希望筹集到足够的钱，使他摆脱即将到来的贫困，这一切使他的婚姻生活可以忍受——一切拯救了他和他的家人。罗莎蒙德摆脱了那种赤裸裸的孤立，他们将被迫认识到他们对彼此来说是多么的安慰。对自己不温柔比看到自己的温柔无法弥补她缺乏其他东西要好得多。他自己因过去和未来的羞辱而感到的骄傲所带来的痛苦是足够强烈的，但他自己很难将这些痛苦与支配这些痛苦的更剧烈的痛苦区分开来——预见到罗莎蒙德将主要将他视为失望和失望的原因的痛苦。给她带来不快乐。他从来不喜欢临时的贫困，而且以前也从未参与过他自己的前景。但他现在开始想象，两个彼此相爱、有共同想法的生物，​​会如何嘲笑他们破旧的家具，以及他们计算自己能买得起黄油和鸡蛋的程度。但那首诗的一瞥似乎离他很遥远，就像黄金时代的粗心一样。在可怜的罗莎蒙德的心目中，没有足够的空间让奢侈品显得渺小。 他怀着非常悲伤的心情下了马，走进屋子，除了晚餐之外，没想到会受到欢呼，他想，在晚上结束之前，明智的做法是告诉罗莎蒙德，他向布尔斯特罗德提出了申请，但失败了。 。最好不要浪费时间让她做好最坏的打算。

But his dinner waited long for him before he was able to eat it. For on entering he found that Dover’s agent had already put a man in the house, and when he asked where Mrs. Lydgate was, he was told that she was in her bedroom. He went up and found her stretched on the bed pale and silent, without an answer even in her face to any word or look of his. He sat down by the bed and leaning over her said with almost a cry of prayer—
但他的晚餐等了他很久才吃完。因为一进去他就发现多佛的经纪人已经在房子里安排了一个人，当他问利德盖特夫人在哪里时，他被告知她在她的卧室里。他走上前去，发现她躺在床上，脸色苍白，一言不发，甚至在她的脸上也没有对他的任何一句话或一个表情做出任何反应。他在床边坐下，靠在她身上，几乎是在祈祷——

‘Forgive me for this misery, my poor Rosamond! Let us only love one another.’
“请原谅我的痛苦，我可怜的罗莎蒙德！让我们彼此相爱吧。

She looked at him silently, still with the blank despair on her face; but then the tears began to fill her blue eyes, and her lip trembled. The strong man had had too much to bear that day. He let his head fall beside hers and sobbed.
她默默地看着他，脸上仍然是茫然的绝望。但随后泪水开始充满她的蓝眼睛，她的嘴唇颤抖着。那天，强者承受了太多的苦难。他把头埋在她的身边，抽泣起来。

He did not hinder her from going to her father early in the morning— it seemed now that he ought not to hinder her from doing as she pleased. In half an hour she came back, and said that papa and mamma wished her to go and stay with them while things were in this miserable state. Papa said he could do nothing about the debt—if he paid this, there would be half-a-dozen more. She had better come back home again till Lydgate had got a comfortable home for her. ‘Do you object, Tertius?’
他没有阻止她一早就去找父亲——现在看来，他不应该阻止她为所欲为。半小时后，她回来了，说爸爸和妈妈希望她在这种悲惨的情况下能去和他们呆在一起。爸爸说他对这笔债务无能为力——如果他还清这笔债务，还会有六笔债务。她最好再次回家，直到利德盖特为她找到一个舒适的家。 “你反对吗，特蒂乌斯？”

‘Do as you like,’ said Lydgate. ‘But things are not coming to a crisis immediately. There is no hurry.’
“随你便吧，”利德盖特说。 “但事情并不会立即陷入危机。不用着急。'

‘I should not go till to-morrow,’ said Rosamond; ‘I shall want to pack my clothes.’
“我明天才去，”罗莎蒙德说。 “我要收拾我的衣服。”

‘Oh, I would wait a little longer than to-morrow—there is no knowing what may happen,’ said Lydgate, with bitter irony. ‘I may get my neck broken, and that may make things easier to you.’
“哦，我会比明天再等一会儿——不知道会发生什么，”利德盖特讽刺地说。 “我的脖子可能会被折断，这对你来说可能会更容易一些。”

It was Lydgate’s misfortune and Rosamond’s too, that his tenderness towards her, which was both an emotional prompting and a well-considered resolve, was inevitably interrupted by these outbursts of indignation either ironical or remonstrant. She thought them totally unwarranted, and the repulsion which this exceptional severity excited in her was in danger of making the more persistent tenderness unacceptable.
这是利德盖特的不幸，也是罗莎蒙德的不幸，他对她的温柔，既是一种情感上的激励，又是经过深思熟虑的决心，不可避免地被这些讽刺或抗议的愤慨的爆发所打断。她认为这些都是毫无根据的，而这种异常的严厉在她心中激起的排斥感有可能使更持久的温柔变得不可接受。

‘I see you do not wish me to go,’ she said, with chill mildness; ‘why can you not say so, without that kind of violence? I shall stay until you request me to do otherwise.’
“我看出你不想让我去，”她语气冷漠而温和。 ‘如果没有那种暴力，你为什么不能这么说？我会留下来，直到你要求我另外做为止。

Lydgate said no more, but went out on his rounds. He felt bruised and shattered, and there was a dark line under his eyes which Rosamond had not seen before. She could not bear to look at him. Tertius had a way of taking things which made them a great deal worse for her.
利德盖特没有再说什么，而是出去巡视了。他感到遍体鳞伤、心碎不已，眼睛下面有一条罗莎蒙德以前从未见过的黑线。她不忍心看他。特蒂乌斯有一种处理事情的方式，这让事情对她来说变得更糟。

CHAPTER LXX
第二十章

Our deeds still travel with us from afar,
我们的事迹仍然伴随着我们远方，

And what we have been makes us what we are.’
我们的过去造就了现在的我们。

Bulstrode’s first object after Lydgate had left Stone Court was to examine Raffles’s pockets, which he imagined were sure to carry signs in the shape of hotel-bills of the places he had stopped in, if he had not told the truth in saying that he had come straight from Liverpool because he was ill and had no money. There were various bills crammed into his pocketbook, but none of a later date than Christmas at any other place, except one, which bore date that morning. This was crumpled up with a hand-bill about a horse-fair in one of his tail-pockets, and represented the cost of three days’ stay at an inn at Bilkley, where the fair was held— a town at least forty miles from Middlemarch. The bill was heavy, and since Raffles had no luggage with him, it seemed probable that he had left his portmanteau behind in payment, in order to save money for his travelling fare; for his purse was empty, and he had only a couple of sixpences and some loose pence in his pockets.
利德盖特离开斯通法院后，布尔斯特罗德的第一个目标是检查莱佛士的口袋，他猜想，如果他没有说实话，他的口袋里肯定有他所停留的地方的酒店账单形状的标志。直接从利物浦来的，因为他病了而且没有钱。他的钱包里塞满了各种各样的钞票，但没有一张比其他地方的圣诞节日期晚，除了一张日期是那天早上。他的尾部口袋里夹着一张皱巴巴的关于马市的传单，内容是在比克利的一家旅馆住三天的费用，那里是集市的举办地——距该镇至少四十英里。米德尔马奇。账单很重，而且由于莱佛士没有带行李，看来他很可能在付款时留下了他的手提包，以节省旅费；因为他的钱包是空的，口袋里只有几个六便士和一些松散的便士。

Bulstrode gathered a sense of safety from these indications that Raffles had really kept at a distance from Middlemarch since his memorable visit at Christmas. At a distance and among people who were strangers to Bulstrode, what satisfaction could there be to Raffles’s tormenting, self-magnifying vein in telling old scandalous stories about a Middlemarch banker? And what harm if he did talk? The chief point now was to keep watch over him as long as there was any danger of that intelligible raving, that unaccountable impulse to tell, which seemed to have acted towards Caleb Garth; and Bulstrode felt much anxiety lest some such impulse should come over him at the sight of Lydgate. He sat up alone with him through the night, only ordering the housekeeper to lie down in her clothes, so as to be ready when he called her, alleging his own indisposition to sleep, and his anxiety to carry out the doctor’s orders. He did carry them out faithfully, although Raffles was incessantly asking for brandy, and declaring that he was sinking away— that the earth was sinking away from under him. He was restless and sleepless, but still quailing and manageable. On the offer of the food ordered by Lydgate, which he refused, and the denial of other things which he demanded, he seemed to concentrate all his terror on Bulstrode, imploringly deprecating his anger, his revenge on him by starvation, and declaring with strong oaths that he had never told any mortal a word against him. Even this Bulstrode felt that he would not have liked Lydgate to hear; but a more alarming sign of fitful alternation in his delirium was, that in-the morning twilight Raffles suddenly seemed to imagine a doctor present, addressing him and declaring that Bulstrode wanted to starve him to death out of revenge for telling, when he never had told.
布尔斯特罗德从这些迹象中获得了一种安全感，表明莱佛士自从圣诞节那次令人难忘的访问以来，一直与米德尔马契保持着一定的距离。在远处，在布尔斯特罗德不认识的人中间，莱佛士以折磨人、自我夸大的方式讲述有关米德尔马契银行家的古老丑闻，这能带来什么满足呢？如果他开口说话又有什么坏处呢？现在的首要任务是，只要存在任何可能发生的危险，他就会一直监视着他，那种可以理解的胡言乱语，那种无法解释的冲动，似乎是针对凯莱布·加斯的。布尔斯特罗德感到非常焦虑，生怕一看到利德盖特就会产生这样的冲动。他独自陪着他坐了一整夜，只吩咐管家穿上衣服躺下，以便在他叫她时做好准备，声称自己睡不好，又急于执行医嘱。他确实忠实地执行了这些任务，尽管莱佛士不断地要白兰地，并宣称他正在下沉——地球正在从他脚下下沉。他焦躁不安、失眠，但仍感到胆战心惊，还能应付自如。利德盖特拒绝了他提供的食物，并拒绝了他所要求的其他事情，他似乎将所有的恐惧都集中在布尔斯特罗德身上，恳求地反对他的愤怒，他通过饥饿对他进行报复，并以强烈的方式宣布他发誓他从未对任何凡人说过任何反对他的话。 就连这个布尔斯特罗德也觉得他不喜欢利德盖特听到。但在他的谵妄状态中，断断续续的更令人震惊的迹象是，在清晨的暮色中，莱佛士突然似乎想象有一位医生在场，对他讲话，并宣称布尔斯特罗德想把他饿死，以报复他的告密，而他从未有过这样的经历。告诉。

Bulstrode’s native imperiousness and strength of determination served him well. This delicate-looking man, himself nervously perturbed, found the needed stimulus in his strenuous circumstances, and through that difficult night and morning, while he had the air of an animated corpse returned to movement without warmth, holding the mastery by its chill impassibility his mind was intensely at work thinking of what he had to guard against and what would win him security. Whatever prayers he might lift up, whatever statements he might inwardly make of this man’s wretched spiritual condition, and the duty he himself was under to submit to the punishment divinely appointed for him rather than to wish for evil to another—through all this effort to condense words into a solid mental state, there pierced and spread with irresistible vividness the images of the events he desired. And in the train of those images came their apology. He could not but see the death of Raffles, and see in it his own deliverance. What was the removal of this wretched creature? He was impenitent— but were not public criminals impenitent?—yet the law decided on their fate. Should Providence in this case award death, there was no sin in contemplating death as the desirable issue— if he kept his hands from hastening it—if he scrupulously did what was prescribed. Even here there might be a mistake: human prescriptions were fallible things: Lydgate had said that treatment had hastened death,—why not his own method of treatment? But of course intention was everything in the question of right and wrong.
布尔斯特罗德天生的专横和坚定的决心对他很有帮助。这个外表精致的男人，本身也紧张不安，在他艰苦的环境中找到了所需的刺激，并度过了那个艰难的夜晚和早晨，而他却像一具生气勃勃的尸体一样，在没有温暖的情况下恢复了运动，通过其冰冷的冷漠掌握了掌控权。脑子里全神贯注地思考着他必须防范什么以及什么能为他赢得安全。无论他如何祈祷，无论他内心对这个人可怜的精神状况做出什么陈述，以及他自己有责任服从上帝为他指定的惩罚，而不是希望他人受到邪恶的惩罚——通过所有这些努力，当他把文字凝结成坚实的精神状态时，他所渴望的事件的形象就以不可抗拒的生动性被刺穿并传播开来。随着这些图像的出现，他们也表达了歉意。他不能不看到莱佛士的死，并从中看到他自己的解脱。是什么让这个可怜的生物被除掉的呢？他不知悔改——但公共罪犯不也不知悔改吗？——但法律却决定了他们的命运。如果上帝在这种情况下判予死亡，那么将死​​亡视为可取的问题并没有罪过——如果他不去加速它——如果他一丝不苟地按照规定行事。即使在这里也可能存在一个错误：人类的处方是容易出错的：利德盖特曾说过治疗加速了死亡——为什么他自己的治疗方法不行呢？当然，在对与错的问题上，意图就是一切。

And Bulstrode set himself to keep his intention separate from his desire. He inwardly declared that he intended to obey orders. Why should he have got into any argument about the validity of these orders? It was only the common trick of desire—which avails itself of any irrelevant scepticism, finding larger room for itself in all uncertainty about effects, in every obscurity that looks like the absence of law. Still, he did obey the orders.
布尔斯特罗德决心将自己的意图与欲望分开。他内心宣称，他打算服从命令。他为什么要对这些命令的有效性进行争论呢？这只是欲望的常见伎俩——它利用任何无关紧要的怀疑论，在所有效果的不确定性中，在每一个看似法律缺失的模糊性中为自己找到更大的空间。尽管如此，他还是服从了命令。

His anxieties continually glanced towards Lydgate, and his remembrance of what had taken place between them the morning before was accompanied with sensibilities which had not been roused at all during the actual scene. He had then cared but little about Lydgate’s painful impressions with regard to the suggested change in the Hospital, or about the disposition towards himself which what he held to be his justifiable refusal of a rather exorbitant request might call forth. He recurred to the scene now with a perception that he had probably made Lydgate his enemy, and with an awakened desire to propitiate him, or rather to create in him a strong sense of personal obligation. He regretted that he had not at once made even an unreasonable money-sacrifice. For in case of unpleasant suspicions, or even knowledge gathered from the raving of Raffles, Bulstrode would have felt that he had a defence in Lydgate’s mind by having conferred a momentous benefit on him. Bat the regret had perhaps come too late.
他的焦虑不断地看向利德盖特，想起前一天早上他们之间发生的事情，伴随着在实际场景中根本没有唤起的情感。当时，他不太关心利德盖特对医院建议的改变所产生的痛苦印象，也不太关心他认为合理地拒绝一个相当过高的要求可能会引起的对自己的态度。现在，他再次回到这个场景，觉得自己很可能已经把利德盖特当作了敌人，并强烈地想要安抚他，或者更确切地说，要在他身上建立一种强烈的个人义务感。他后悔自己没有立即做出哪怕是无理的金钱牺牲。因为如果出现令人不快的怀疑，甚至是从莱佛士的胡言乱语中收集到的知识，布尔斯特罗德会觉得利德盖特有一个辩护理由，因为他给了利德盖特带来了巨大的好处。也许后悔来得太晚了。

Strange, piteous conflict in the soul of this unhappy man, who had longed for years to be better than he was—who had taken his selfish passions into discipline and clad them in severe robes, so that he had walked with them as a devout choir, till now that a terror had risen among them, and they could chant no longer, but threw out their common cries for safety.
这个不幸的人的灵魂中出现了奇怪而可怜的冲突，他多年来一直渴望比自己更好，他将自私的激情纳入纪律，并给他们穿上严肃的长袍，这样他就可以像虔诚的唱诗班一样与他们同行直到现在，恐惧在他们中间升起，他们再也无法吟唱，只能发出共同的求救呼喊。

It was nearly the middle of the day before Lydgate arrived: he had meant to come earlier, but had been detained, he said; and his shattered looks were noticed by Balstrode. But he immediately threw himself into the consideration of the patient, and inquired strictly into all that had occurred. Raffles was worse, would take hardly any food, was persistently wakeful and restlessly raving; but still not violent. Contrary to Bulstrode’s alarmed expectation, he took little notice of Lydgate’s presence, and continued to talk or murmur incoherently.
利德盖特抵达时已经接近中午了：他说，他本来打算早点来，但被拘留了；巴尔斯特罗德注意到了他破碎的表情。但他立即全身心地为病人着想，并严格询问所发生的一切。莱佛士的情况更糟，几乎不吃任何东西，总是醒着，胡言乱语。但仍然不暴力。与布尔斯特罗德惊恐的预期相反，他几乎没有注意到利德盖特的存在，并继续语无伦次地说话或低语。

‘What do you think of him?’ said Bulstrode, in private.
“你觉得他怎么样？”布尔斯特罗德私下里说道。

‘The symptoms are worse.’
“症状更严重了。”

‘You are less hopeful?’
“你的希望更小了吗？”

‘No; I still think he may come round. Are you going to stay here yourself?’ said Lydgate, looking at Bulstrode with an abrupt question, which made him uneasy, though in reality it was not due to any suspicious conjecture.
'不;我仍然认为他可能会回心转意。你自己要留在这里吗？”利德盖特突然问道，看着布尔斯特罗德，这让他感到不安，尽管实际上这并不是出于任何可疑的猜测。

‘Yes, I think so,’ said Bulstrode, governing himself and speaking with deliberation. ‘Mrs. Bulstrode is advised of the reasons which detain me. Mrs. Abel and her husband are not experienced enough to be left quite alone, and this kind of responsibility is scarcely included in their service of me. You have some fresh instructions, I presume.’
“是的，我想是这样，”布尔斯特罗德说道，他控制着自己，说话时从容不迫。 '太太。布尔斯特罗德被告知拘留我的原因。阿贝尔夫人和她的丈夫没有足够的经验，不能独自一人，而这种责任几乎不包括在他们为我服务的范围内。我想你有一些新的指示。

The chief new instruction that Lydgate had to give was on the administration of extremely moderate doses of opium, in case of the sleeplessness continuing after several hours. He had taken the precaution of bringing opium in his pocket, and he gave minute directions to Bulstrode as to the doses, and the point at which they should cease. He insisted on the risk of not ceasing; and repeated his order that no alcohol should be given.
利德盖特必须给出的主要新指示是服用极其中等剂量的鸦片，以防几个小时后持续失眠。他采取了预防措施，将鸦片放在口袋里，并向布尔斯特罗德详细指示了剂量以及停止服用的时间。他坚持冒着风险不罢休；并重申了他的命令：不准喝酒。

‘From what I see of the case,’ he ended, ‘narcotism is the only thing I should be much afraid of. He may wear through even without much food. There’s a good deal of strength in him.’
“从我对这个案子的了解来看，”他最后说道，“麻醉品是我唯一应该非常害怕的事情。”即使没有太多食物，他也可能会疲惫不堪。他身上有很大的力量。

‘You look ill yourself, Mr. Lydgate—a most unusual, I may say unprecedented thing in my knowledge of you,’ said Bulstrode, showing a solicitude as unlike his indifference the day before, as his present recklessness about his own fatigue was unlike his habitual self-cherishing anxiety. ‘I fear you are harassed.’
“利德盖特先生，你自己看起来很不舒服——据我对你的了解，我可以说这是一件很不寻常的事情，”布尔斯特罗德说，他表现出一种关心，这与他前一天的冷漠不同，因为他现在对自己的疲劳的鲁莽态度与他不同。他习惯性的自爱焦虑。 “我担心你受到骚扰。”

‘Yes, I am,’ said Lydgate, brusquely, holding his hat, and ready to go.
“是的，我是，”利德盖特粗鲁地说，拿着帽子，准备出发。

‘Something new, I fear,’ said Bulstrode, inquiringly. ‘Pray be seated.’
“恐怕是新的东西，”布尔斯特罗德询问地说。 “请坐下。”

‘No, thank you,’ said Lydgate, with some hauteur. ‘I mentioned to you yesterday what was the state of my affairs. There is nothing to add, except that the execution has since then been actually put into my house. One can tell a good deal of trouble in a short sentence. I will say good morning.’
“不用了，谢谢。”利德盖特傲慢地说。 “我昨天向你提到了我的情况。没什么可补充的，只是从那时起，死刑实际上就被放到了我家里。短短一句话就能说出一大堆麻烦事。我会说早上好。

‘Stay, Mr. Lydgate, stay,’ said Bulstrode; ‘I have been reconsidering this subject. I was yesterday taken by surprise, and saw it superficially. Mrs. Bulstrode is anxious for her niece, and I myself should grieve at a calamitous change in your position. Claims on me are numerous, but on reconsideration, I esteem it right that I should incur a small sacrifice rather than leave you unaided. You said, I think, that a thousand pounds would suffice entirely to free you from your burthens, and enable you to recover a firm stand?’
“留下来，利德盖特先生，留下来，”布尔斯特罗德说。 “我一直在重新考虑这个话题。昨天我吃了一惊，从表面上看到了它。布尔斯特罗德夫人很担心她的侄女，我本人也应该为你的立场发生灾难性的变化而感到悲伤。对我的要求有很多，但经过重新考虑，我认为我应该做出一点小小的牺牲，而不是让你孤身一人。我想，你说一千英镑足以让你摆脱负担，让你恢复坚定的立场？

‘Yes,’ said Lydgate, a great leap of joy within him surmounting every other feeling; ‘that would pay all my debts, and leave me a little on hand. I could set about economizing in our way of living. And by-and-by my practice might look up.’
“是的，”利德盖特说，他内心的喜悦之情溢于言表。 “这样我就可以还清所有的债务，而且还剩下一点钱。”我可以开始节约我们的生活方式。渐渐地，我的练习可能会有所改善。

‘If you will wait a moment, Mr. Lydgate, I will draw a cheek to that amount. I am aware that help, to be effectual in these cases, should be thorough.’
“利德盖特先生，如果您能稍等一下，我会对这个金额表示厚颜无耻。”我知道，为了在这些情况下有效，帮助应该是彻底的。

While Bulstrode wrote, Lydgate turned to the window thinking of his home— thinking of his life with its good start saved from frustration, its good purposes still unbroken.
布尔斯特罗德写作时，利德盖特转向窗外，想起了他的家——想起了他的生活，他的生活有了良好的开端，摆脱了挫折，其美好的目标仍然没有被打破。

‘You can give me a note of hand for this, Mr. Lydgate,’ said the banker, advancing towards him with the check. ‘And by-and-by, I hope, you may be in circumstances gradually to repay me. Meanwhile, I have pleasure in thinking that you will be released from further difficulty.’
“利德盖特先生，您可以给我一张手记，”银行家拿着支票向他走来，说道。 “我希望，渐渐地，你会慢慢地回报我。”与此同时，我很高兴地想到你将从进一步的困难中解脱出来。

‘I am deeply obliged to you,’ said Lydgate. ‘You have restored to me the prospect of working with some happiness and some chance of good.’
“我非常感谢你，”利德盖特说。 “你让我重拾了工作的美好前景和一些美好的机会。”

It appeared to him a very natural movement in Bulstrode that he should have reconsidered his refusal: it corresponded with the more munificent side of his character. But as he put his hack into a canter, that he might get the sooner home, and tell the good news to Rosamond, and get cash at the bank to pay over to Dover’s agent, there crossed his mind, with an unpleasant impression, as from a dark-winged flight of evil augury across his vision, the thought of that contrast in himself which a few months had brought—that he should be overjoyed at being under a strong personal obligation— that he should be overjoyed at getting money for himself from Bulstrode.
在布尔斯特罗德看来，他应该重新考虑自己的拒绝，这是一种非常自然的举动：这符合他性格中更慷慨的一面。但当他开始慢跑，以便能早点回家，告诉罗莎蒙德这个好消息，并在银行取现金支付给多佛的经纪人时，他的脑海中闪过一种不愉快的印象，因为黑暗的邪恶预兆飞过他的视野，想到几个月来给他带来的那种反差——他应该为自己承担着强大的个人义务而感到欣喜若狂——他应该为自己为自己赚到钱而感到欣喜若狂来自布尔斯特罗德。

The banker felt that he had done something to nullify one cause of uneasiness, and yet he was scarcely the easier. He did not measure the quantity of diseased motive which had made him wish for Lydgate’s good-will, but the quantity was none the less actively there, like an irritating agent in his blood. A man vows, and yet will not east away the means of breaking his vow. Is it that he distinctly means to break it? Not at all; but the desires which tend to break it are at work in him dimly, and make their way into his imagination, and relax his muscles in the very moments when he is telling himself over again the reasons for his vow. Raffles, recovering quickly, returning to the free use of his odious powers—how could Bulstrode wish for that? Raffles dead was the image that brought release, and indirectly he prayed for that way of release, beseeching that, if it were possible, the rest of his days here below might be freed from the threat of an ignominy which would break him utterly as an instrument of God’s service. Lydgate’s opinion was not on the side of promise that this prayer would be fulfilled; and as the day advanced, Bulstrode felt himself getting irritated at the persistent life in this man, whom he would fain have seen sinking into the silence of death imperious will stirred murderous impulses towards this brute life, over which will, by itself, had no power. He said inwardly that he was getting too much worn; he would not sit up with the patient to-night, but leave him to Mrs. Abel, who, if necessary, could call her husband.
银行家觉得他已经做了一些事情来消除一个令人不安的原因，但他也并没有因此而轻松一些。他没有计算出让他希望得到利德盖特善意的病态动机的数量，但这个数量仍然活跃在那里，就像他血液中的刺激剂一样。一个人发誓，却不会放弃违背誓言的手段。难道他的意思分明是要打破吗？一点也不;但那些往往会破坏它的欲望却在他身上隐约地起作用，并进入他的想象，并在他再次告诉自己他的誓言的原因时放松了他的肌肉。莱佛士很快康复，恢复了自由使用他可恶的权力的能力——布尔斯特罗德怎么会希望这样呢？莱佛士的死是带来解脱的意象，他间接地祈祷以这种方式解脱，恳求如果可能的话，让他在下面的余生免受耻辱的威胁，这种耻辱将彻底摧毁他作为一个人的身份。为上帝服务的工具。利德盖特的观点并不支持这个祈祷将会实现的承诺。随着时间的推移，布尔斯特罗德感到自己对这个人顽强的生命感到恼火，他很想看到这个人陷入死亡的寂静，专横的意志激起了对这个残酷生命的杀戮冲动，而意志本身无法控制这个生命。力量。他心里说，自己太累了；今晚他不会陪着病人，而是把他留给阿贝尔太太，如果有必要，她可以打电话给她的丈夫。

At six o’clock, Raffles, having had only fitful perturbed snatches of sleep, from which he waked with fresh restlessness and perpetual cries that he was sinking away, Bulstrode began to administer the opium according to Lydgate’s directions. At the end of half an hour or more he called Mrs. Abel and told her that he found himself unfit for further watching. He must now consign the patient to her care; and he proceeded to repeat to her Lydgate’s directions as to the quantity of each dose. Mrs. Abel had not before known anything of Lydgate’s prescriptions; she had simply prepared and brought whatever Bulstrode ordered, and had done what he pointed out to her. She began now to ask what else she should do besides administering the opium.
六点钟，莱佛士只睡了一会儿，惊慌失措，醒来时又感到新的不安，并不断哭喊着自己正在沉下去，布尔斯特罗德开始按照利德盖特的指示服用鸦片。半个小时或更长时间后，他打电话给阿贝尔夫人，告诉她他发现自己不适合继续观察。他现在必须把病人交给她照顾；他继续向她重复利德盖特关于每剂剂量的指示。阿贝尔夫人此前对利德盖特的处方一无所知。她只是准备并带来了布尔斯特罗德命令的任何东西，并做了他向她指示的事情。她现在开始问，除了吸鸦片之外，她还应该做什么。

‘Nothing at present, except the offer of the soup or the soda-water: you can come to me for further directions. Unless there is any important change, I shall not come into the room again to-night. You will ask your husband for help if necessary. I must go to bed early.’
“目前什么都没有，除了提供汤或苏打水：你可以来找我询问进一步的指示。除非有什么重要的变化，否则今晚我不会再进房间了。如有必要，您会向您丈夫寻求帮助。我必须早点睡觉。

‘You’ve much need, sir, I’m sure,’ said Mrs. Abel, ‘and to take something more strengthening than what you’ve done.
“我确信，先生，您非常需要采取一些比您所做的事情更能增强力量的东西。”阿贝尔夫人说。

Bulstrode went-away now without anxiety as to what Raffles might say in his raving, which had taken on a muttering incoherence not likely to create any dangerous belief. At any rate he must risk this. He went down into the wainscoted parlor first, and began to consider whether he would not have his horse saddled and go home by the moonlight, and give up caring for earthly consequences. Then, he wished that he had begged Lydgate to come again that evening. Perhaps he might deliver a different opinion, and think that Raffles was getting into a less hopeful state. Should he send for Lydgate? If Raffles were really getting worse, and slowly dying, Bulstrode felt that he could go to bed and sleep in gratitude to Providence. But was he worse? Lydgate might come and simply say that he was going on as he expected, and predict that he would by-and-by fall into a good sleep, and get well. What was the use of sending for him? Bulstrode shrank from that result. No ideas or opinions could hinder him from seeing the one probability to be, that Raffles recovered would be just the same man as before, with his strength as a tormentor renewed, obliging him to drag away his wife to spend her years apart from her friends and native place, carrying an alienating suspicion against him in her heart.
布尔斯特罗德现在离开了，并不担心莱佛士在他的胡言乱语中会说些什么，他的胡言乱语呈现出一种语无伦次的低语，不太可能产生任何危险的信念。无论如何，他必须冒这个险。他先下到了壁板客厅里，开始考虑是否要备好马，在月色下回家，不再顾及尘世的后果。然后，他希望那天晚上他曾请求利德盖特再来。也许他可能会提出不同的意见，并认为莱佛士正陷入一种不那么乐观的状态。他应该派人去找利德盖特吗？如果莱佛士的病情真的恶化，并且正在慢慢死去，布尔斯特罗德觉得他可以上床睡觉，感谢普罗维登斯。但他更糟糕吗？利德盖特可能会来，简单地说他的情况正如他所预料的那样，并预测他很快就会睡个好觉，然后康复。派人来找他有什么用？布尔斯特罗德对这个结果感到畏缩。任何想法或观点都无法阻止他看到一种可能性，即莱佛士康复后将与以前一样，重新焕发出折磨者的力量，迫使他带走妻子，让她与朋友们分开数年。又是故乡，心里对他怀有疏远的猜疑。

He had sat an hour and a half in this conflict by the firelight only, when a sudden thought made him rise and light the bed-candle, which he had brought down with him. The thought was, that he had not told Mrs. Abel when the doses of opium must cease.
他在这场冲突中只在火光旁坐了一个半小时，突然一个念头让他站起来，点燃了他随身带来的床头蜡烛。人们的想法是，他没有告诉阿贝尔夫人何时必须停止服用鸦片。

He took hold of the candlestick, but stood motionless for a long while. She might already have given him more than Lydgate had prescribed. But it was excusable in him, that he should forget part of an order, in his present wearied condition. He walked up-stairs, candle in hand, not knowing whether he should straightway enter his own room and go to bed, or turn to the patient’s room and rectify his omission. He paused in the passage, with his face turned towards Raffles’s room, and he could hear him moaning and murmuring. He was not asleep, then. Who could know that Lydgate’s prescription would not be better disobeyed than followed, since there was still no sleep?
他握住烛台，却一动不动地站了好一会儿。她可能已经给了他比利德盖特规定的更多的东西。但在他目前疲倦的状态下，他忘记了部分命令，这对他来说是情有可原的。他提着蜡烛上楼，不知道是该直接进自己的房间去睡觉，还是转到病人的房间去弥补自己的疏漏。他在过道里停了下来，脸转向莱佛士的房间，听见他在呻吟和低语。那时他还没有睡着。谁知道不遵守利德盖特的处方并不比遵守利德盖特的处方更好，因为仍然没有睡觉呢？

He turned into his own room. Before he had quite undressed, Mrs. Abel rapped at the door; he opened it an inch, so that he could hear her speak low.
他转身进了自己的房间。他还没脱完衣服，阿贝尔太太就敲响了门。他把门打开一英寸，这样他就能听到她低声说话。

‘If you please, sir, should I have no brandy nor nothing to give the poor creetur? He feels sinking away, and nothing else will he swaller—and but little strength in it, if he did—only the opium. And he says more and more he’s sinking down through the earth.’
“先生，请问我可以不要白兰地或什么东西给这个可怜的怪物吗？”他感觉自己正在下沉，除了鸦片，他什么也咽不下——即使咽下去了，也没什么力气了。他越来越说他正在向地下沉下去。

To her surprise, Mr. Bulstrode did not answer. A struggle was going on within him.
令她惊讶的是，布尔斯特罗德先生没有回答。他内心正在进行一场斗争。

‘I think he must die for want o’ support, if he goes on in that way. When I nursed my poor master, Mr. Robisson, I had to give him port-wine and brandy constant, and a big glass at a time,’ added Mrs. Abel, with a touch of remonstrance in her tone.
“我认为，如果他继续这样下去，他一定会因为缺乏支持而死。”当我照顾我可怜的主人罗比森先生时，我不得不经常给他喝波特酒和白兰地，而且一次一大杯，”阿贝尔夫人补充道，语气中带着一丝抗议。

But again Mr. Bulstrode did not answer immediately, and she continued, ‘It’s not a time to spare when people are at death’s door, nor would you wish it, sir, I’m sure. Else I should give him our own bottle o’ rum as we keep by us. But a sitter-up so as you’ve been, and doing everything as laid in your power—‘
但布尔斯特罗德先生再次没有立即回答，她继续说道：“当人们濒临死亡之际，现在不是一个空闲的时间，我确信您也不希望这样，先生。”否则我应该给他我们随身携带的一瓶朗姆酒。但像你这样一个久坐不动的人，并尽你所能做的一切——”

Here a key was thrust through the inch of doorway, and Mr. Bulstrode said huskily, ‘That is the key of the wine-cooler. You will find plenty of brandy there.’
一把钥匙插进了门口一英寸的地方，布尔斯特罗德先生沙哑地说：“那是酒柜的钥匙。”那里有很多白兰地。

Early in the morning—about six—Mr. Bulstrode rose and spent some time in prayer. Does any one suppose that private prayer is necessarily candid—necessarily goes to the roots of action? Private prayer is inaudible speech, and speech is representative: who can represent himself just as he is, even in his own reflections? Bulstrode had not yet unravelled in his thought the confused promptings of the last four-and-twenty hours.
清晨——大约六点——先生。布尔斯特罗德站起来，花了一些时间祈祷。有人认为私下的祈祷一定是坦诚的——一定是行动的根源吗？私下的祈祷是听不见的言语，而言语是代表性的：谁能像他自己一样代表他自己，即使是在他自己的反思中？布尔斯特罗德还没有在他的思想中理清过去四二十个小时的混乱提示。

He listened in the passage, and could hear hard stertorous breathing. Then he walked out in the garden, and looked at the early rime on the grass and fresh spring leaves. When he re-entered the house, he felt startled at the sight of Mrs. Abel.
他在通道里侧耳倾听，能听到粗重的喘息声。然后他走到花园里，看着草地上的初霜和新鲜的春叶。当他重新进屋时，看到阿贝尔夫人，他感到吃了一惊。

‘How is your patient—asleep, I think?’ he said, with an attempt at cheerfulness in his tone.
“你的病人睡得怎么样，我想？”他说道，语气中试图表现出愉快。

‘He’s gone very deep, sir,’ said Mrs. Abel. ‘He went off gradual between three and four o’clock. Would you please to go and look at him? I thought it no harm to leave him. My man’s gone afield, and the little girl’s seeing to the kettles.’
“他已经陷得太深了，先生，”阿贝尔夫人说。 “他在三点到四点之间逐渐离开。你愿意去看看他吗？我想离开他也没什么坏处。我的男人去了外地，小女孩正在看管水壶。

Bulstrode went up. At a glance he knew that Raffles was not in the sleep which brings revival, but in the sleep which streams deeper and deeper into the gulf of death.
布尔斯特罗德站了起来。他一看就知道，莱佛士并不是在带来复兴的睡眠中，而是在越陷越深的死亡深渊中。

He looked round the room and saw a bottle with some brandy in it, and the almost empty opium phial. He put the phial out of sight, and carried the brandy-bottle down-stairs with him, locking it again in the wine-cooler.
他环视房间，看到一个瓶子，里面装着一些白兰地，还有一个几乎空了的鸦片瓶。他把小瓶放在看不见的地方，然后把白兰地酒瓶带到楼下，又把它锁在酒柜里。

While breakfasting he considered whether he should ride to Middlemarch at once, or wait for Lydgate’s arrival. He decided to wait, and told Mrs. Abel that she might go about her work— he could watch in the bed-chamber.
吃早餐时，他考虑是否应该立即骑马前往米德尔马契，还是等待利德盖特到来。他决定等一等，并告诉阿贝尔太太她可以去工作了——他可以在卧室里看着。

As he sat there and beheld the enemy of his peace going irrevocably into silence, he felt more at rest than he had done for many months. His conscience was soothed by the enfolding wing of secrecy, which seemed just then like an angel sent down for his relief. He drew out his pocket-book to review various memoranda there as to the arrangements he had projected and partly carried out in the prospect of quitting Middlemarch, and considered how far he would let them stand or recall them, now that his absence would be brief. Some economies which he felt desirable might still find a suitable occasion in his temporary withdrawal from management, and he hoped still that Mrs. Casaubon would take a large share in the expenses of the Hospital. In that way the moments passed, until a change in the stertorous breathing was marked enough to draw his attention wholly to the bed, and forced him to think of the departing life, which had once been subservient to his own—which he had once been glad to find base enough for him to act on as he would. It was his gladness then which impelled him now to be glad that the life was at an end.
当他坐在那里，看着他的平静的敌人无可挽回地陷入沉默时，他感到比几个月来更加平静。他的良心因秘密的羽翼而得到抚慰，这似乎就像一位天使下凡来解救他一样。他掏出他的皮夹，回顾了那里的各种备忘录，内容涉及他为离开米德尔马契而计划和部分实施的安排，并考虑了既然他的缺席时间很短，他会让他们坚持或回忆到什么程度。 。他认为一些他认为合适的经济可能仍然会在他暂时退出管理中找到合适的机会，他仍然希望卡苏邦夫人能够承担医院费用的很大一部分。就这样，时间一分一秒地过去了，直到鼾声的呼吸发生了明显的变化，足以将他的注意力完全吸引到床上，并迫使他想起即将离去的生活，它曾经服从于他自己的生活——他曾经是这样的生活。很高兴找到足够的基础让他按照自己的意愿行事。正是他当时的高兴促使他现在为生命的结束而感到高兴。

And who could say that the death of Raffles had been hastened? Who knew what would have saved him?
谁能说莱佛士的死是加速的呢？谁知道什么可以拯救他呢？

Lydgate arrived at half-past ten, in time to witness the final pause of the breath. When he entered the room Bulstrode observed a sudden expression in his face, which was not so much surprise as a recognition that he had not judged correctly. He stood by the bed in silence for some time, with his eyes turned on the dying man, but with that subdued activity of expression which showed that he was carrying on an inward debate.
利德盖特十点半到达，正好见证了呼吸的最后停顿。当他走进房间时，布尔斯特罗德发现他脸上突然出现了一种表情，这与其说是惊讶，不如说是认识到他没有正确判断。他默默地在床边站了一会儿，眼睛转向垂死的人，但表情上的柔和表情表明他正在进行一场内心的辩论。

‘When did this change begin?’ said he, looking at Bulstrode.
“这种变化是什么时候开始的？”他看着布尔斯特罗德说道。

‘I did not watch by him last night,’ said Bulstrode. ‘I was over-worn, and left him under Mrs. Abel’s care. She said that he sank into sleep between three and four o’clock. When I came in before eight he was nearly in this condition.’
“昨晚我没有在他身边观看，”布尔斯特罗德说。 “我太累了，就把他留给了阿贝尔夫人照顾。她说他在三点到四点之间就睡着了。当我八点之前进来时，他几乎处于这种状态。

Lydgate did not ask another question, but watched in silence until he said, ‘It’s all over.’
利德盖特没有再问什么，只是静静地看着，直到他说：“一切都结束了。”

This morning Lydgate was in a state of recovered hope and freedom. He had set out on his work with all his old animation, and felt himself strong enough to bear all the deficiencies of his married life. And he was conscious that Bulstrode had been a benefactor to him. But he was uneasy about this case. He had not expected it to terminate as it had done. Yet he hardly knew how to put a question on the subject to Bulstrode without appearing to insult him; and if he examined the housekeeper—why, the man was dead. There seemed to be no use in implying that somebody’s ignorance or imprudence had killed him. And after all, he himself might be wrong.
今天早上，利德盖特处于恢复希望和自由的状态。他带着往日的活力开始了工作，并感到自己足够坚强，可以承受婚姻生活中的所有缺陷。他意识到布尔斯特罗德一直是他的恩人。但他对这个案子感到不安。他没想到事情会这样终止。然而，他几乎不知道如何向布尔斯特罗德提出这个问题而不显得侮辱他。如果他检查了管家——为什么，那个人已经死了。暗示某人的无知或轻率杀死了他似乎是没有用的。毕竟，他自己可能是错的。

He and Bulstrode rode back to Middlemarch together, talking of many things—chiefly cholera and the chances of the Reform Bill in the House of Lords, and the firm resolve of the political Unions. Nothing was said about Raffles, except that Bulstrode mentioned the necessity of having a grave for him in Lowick churchyard, and observed that, so far as he knew, the poor man had no connections, except Rigg, whom he had stated to be unfriendly towards him.
他和布尔斯特罗德一起骑马回到米德尔马奇，谈论了很多事情——主要是霍乱和上议院改革法案的机会，以及政治联盟的坚定决心。关于莱佛士什么也没说，除了布尔斯特罗德提到有必要在洛威克教堂墓地为他建一个坟墓，并指出，据他所知，这个可怜的人除了里格之外没有任何关系，他曾说过对里格不友好他。

On returning home Lydgate had a visit from Mr. Farebrother. The Vicar had not been in the town the day before, but the news that there was an execution in Lydgate’s house had got to Lowick by the evening, having been carried by Mr. Spicer, shoemaker and parish-clerk, who had it from his brother, the respectable bell-hanger in Lowick Gate. Since that evening when Lydgate had come down from the billiard room with Fred Vincy, Mr. Farebrother’s thoughts about him had been rather gloomy. Playing at the Green Dragon once or oftener might have been a trifle in another man; but in Lydgate it was one of several signs that he was getting unlike his former self. He was beginning to do things for which he had formerly even an excessive scorn. Whatever certain dissatisfactions in marriage, which some silly tinklings of gossip had given him hints of, might have to do with this change, Mr. Farebrother felt sure that it was chiefly connected with the debts which were being more and more distinctly reported, and he began to fear that any notion of Lydgate’s having resources or friends in the background must be quite illusory. The rebuff he had met with in his first attempt to win Lydgate’s confidence, disinclined him to a second; but this news of the execution being actually in the house, determined the Vicar to overcome his reluctance.
利德盖特回国后，费雷布拉泽先生拜访了利德盖特。牧师前一天没有到镇上，但是利德盖特家中执行死刑的消息到了晚上就传到了洛威克，是由鞋匠兼教区职员斯派塞先生从他的父亲那里得到的。哥哥，洛伊克门受人尊敬的钟表匠。自从那天晚上利德盖特和弗雷德·文西从台球室下来后，费雷布拉泽先生对他的看法就一直相当悲观。对另一个人来说，在绿龙玩一次或者多次可能是小事一桩；但在利德盖特，这是他变得与以前不同的几个迹象之一。他开始做以前甚至过分蔑视的事情。无论婚姻中的某些不满（一些愚蠢的八卦叮当声给他暗示）可能与这种变化有关，费尔布拉泽先生确信这主要与越来越明显地报告的债务有关，他开始担心利德盖特在幕后拥有资源或朋友的任何想法都一定是虚幻的。他第一次尝试赢得利德盖特的信任时遭到拒绝，这让他不再愿意做第二次。但听到死刑确实在家里执行的消息后，牧师下定决心要克服自己的不情愿。

Lydgate had just dismissed a poor patient, in whom he was much interested, and he came forward to put out his hand—with an open cheerfulness which surprised Mr. Farebrother. Could this too be a proud rejection of sympathy and help? Never mind; the sympathy and help should be offered.
利德盖特刚刚辞退了一位可怜的病人，他对他很感兴趣，他走上前伸出了手——带着一种公开的快乐，这让费雷布拉泽先生感到惊讶。难道这也是对同情和帮助的骄傲拒绝吗？没关系;应给予同情和帮助。

‘How are you, Lydgate? I came to see you because I had heard something which made me anxious about you,’ said the Vicar, in the tone of a good brother, only that there was no reproach in it. They were both seated by this time, and Lydgate answered immediately—
‘你好吗，利德盖特？我来看你，是因为我听到一些让我担心你的事情。”牧师用好兄弟的语气说道，只是语气中没有责备的意思。这时他们都已经就座了，利德盖特立即回答道——

‘I think I know what you mean. You had heard that there was an execution in the house?’
‘我想我明白你的意思。你听说房子里正在执行死刑吗？

‘Yes; is it true?’
'是的;这是真的吗？

‘It was true,’ said Lydgate, with an air of freedom, as if he did not mind talking about the affair now. ‘But the danger is over; the debt is paid. I am out of my difficulties now: I shall be freed from debts, and able, I hope, to start afresh on a better plan.’
“确实如此，”利德盖特带着一种自由的神气说道，仿佛他不介意现在谈论这件事。 “但是危险已经过去了；债务已偿还。我现在已经摆脱了困难：我将摆脱债务，并且我希望能够重新开始一个更好的计划。

‘I am very thankful to hear it,’ said the Vicar, falling back in his chair, and speaking with that low-toned quickness which often follows the removal of a load. ‘I like that better than all the news in the ‘Times.’ I confess I came to you with a heavy heart.’
“我很高兴听到这个消息，”牧师说，他向后靠在椅子上，语气低沉，语气急促，这种语气通常是在卸下重物后出现的。 “我比《泰晤士报》上的所有新闻更喜欢这个。我承认我怀着沉重的心情来找你。”

‘Thank you for coming,’ said Lydgate, cordially. ‘I can enjoy the kindness all the more because I am happier. I have certainly been a good deal crushed. I’m afraid I shall find the bruises still painful by-and by,’ he added, smiling rather sadly; ‘but just now I can only feel that the torture-screw is off.’
“谢谢你的到来，”利德盖特亲切地说。 “我更能享受善意，因为我更快乐。”我确实被压垮了。 “我担心我会发现这些瘀伤不久之后仍然会很痛。”他补充道，笑容相当悲伤。 “但现在我只能感觉到酷刑螺丝已经松开了。”

Mr. Farebrother was silent for a moment, and then said earnestly, ‘My dear fellow, let me ask you one question. Forgive me if I take a liberty.’
费雷布拉泽先生沉默了一会儿，然后认真地说：“亲爱的朋友，让我问你一个问题。”如果我冒昧的话请原谅我。

‘I don’t believe you will ask anything that ought to offend me.’
“我不相信你会问任何冒犯我的事情。”

‘Then—this is necessary to set my heart quite at rest—you have not— have you?—in order to pay your debts, incurred another debt which may harass you worse hereafter?’
“那么——这对于让我的心平静下来是必要的——你有没有——是吗？——为了偿还你的债务，又欠了一笔债务，这可能会让你以后受到更严重的困扰？”

‘No,’ said Lydgate, coloring slightly. ‘There is no reason why I should not tell you—since the fact is so—that the person to whom I am indebted is Bulstrode. He has made me a very handsome advance— a thousand pounds—and he can afford to wait for repayment.’
“不，”利德盖特说，脸色微微红了。 “我没有理由不告诉你——既然事实如此——我欠我的人就是布尔斯特罗德。他给了我一笔非常可观的预付款——一千英镑——而且他有能力等待还款。

‘Well, that is generous,’ said Mr. Farebrother, compelling himself to approve of the man whom he disliked. His delicate feeling shrank from dwelling even in his thought on the fact that he had always urged Lydgate to avoid any personal entanglement with Bulstrode. He added immediately, ‘And Bulstrode must naturally feel an interest in your welfare, after you have worked with him in a way which has probably reduced your income instead of adding to it. I am glad to think that he has acted accordingly.’
“嗯，这真是慷慨，”费雷布拉泽先生说，强迫自己认可这个他不喜欢的人。即使想到他一直敦促利德盖特避免与布尔斯特罗德有任何私人纠葛，他的微妙感觉也不敢停留在脑海中。他立即补充道，“布尔斯特罗德自然会对你的福利感兴趣，因为你与他一起工作的方式可能会减少而不是增加你的收入。”我很高兴认为他已经采取了相应的行动。

Lydgate felt uncomfortable under these kindly suppositions. They made more distinct within him the uneasy consciousness which had shown its first dim stirrings only a few hours before, that Bulstrode’s motives for his sudden beneficence following close upon the chillest indifference might be merely selfish. He let the kindly suppositions pass. He could not tell the history of the loan, but it was more vividly present with him than ever, as well as the fact which the Vicar delicately ignored—that this relation of personal indebtedness to Bulstrode was what he had once been most resolved to avoid.
利德盖特在这些善意的假设下感到不舒服。它们使他内心的不安意识更加清晰，这种意识在几个小时前才首次显现出微弱的骚动，布尔斯特罗德在最冷漠的态度之后突然表现出善意，其动机可能只是自私。他放弃了善意的假设。他无法讲述这笔贷款的历史，但它比以往任何时候都更加生动地呈现在他身上，以及牧师巧妙地忽略的事实——与布尔斯特罗德的个人债务关系是他曾经最坚决要避免的。 。

He began, instead of answering, to speak of his projected economies, and of his having come to look at his life from a different point of view.
他没有回答，而是开始谈论他预计的经济状况，以及他开始从不同的角度看待自己的生活。

‘I shall set up a surgery,’ he said. ‘I really think I made a mistaken effort in that respect. And if Rosamond will not mind, I shall take an apprentice. I don’t like these things, but if one carries them out faithfully they are not really lowering. I have had a severe galling to begin with: that will make the small rubs seem easy.’
“我要安排手术，”他说。 “我真的认为我在这方面做出了错误的努力。如果罗莎蒙德不介意的话，我就收一个学徒。我不喜欢这些事情，但如果一个人忠实地执行它们，它们并不是真正的贬低。我一开始就受到了严重的伤害：这会让小摩擦看起来很容易。

Poor Lydgate! the ‘if Rosamond will not mind,’ which had fallen from him involuntarily as part of his thought, was a significant mark of the yoke he bore. But Mr. Farebrother, whose hopes entered strongly into the same current with Lydgate’s, and who knew nothing about him that could now raise a melancholy presentiment, left him with affectionate congratulation.
可怜的利德盖特！ “如果罗莎蒙德不介意的话”这句话作为他思想的一部分不由自主地从他身上掉下来，这是他所承受的枷锁的一个重要标志。但法尔布拉泽先生的希望与利德盖特的愿望强烈地结合在一起，而且他对他一无所知，现在可能会引起一种忧郁的预感，所以他带着深情的祝贺离开了他。

CHAPTER LXXI
第二十一章

Clown…. ‘Twas in the Bunch of Grapes, where, indeed,
小丑…。 “那是在葡萄串里，事实上，

you have a delight to sit, have you not?
你很高兴坐下来，不是吗？

Froth. I have so: because it is an open room, and good for winter.
泡沫。我有这样的：因为它是一个开放的房间，适合冬天。

Clo. Why, very well then: I hope here be truths.
克洛。那么，好吧：我希望这是事实。

—Measure for Measure.
——一报还一报。

Five days after the death of Raffles, Mr. Bambridge was standing at his leisure under the large archway leading into the yard of the Green Dragon. He was not fond of solitary contemplation, but he had only just come out of the house, and any human figure standing at ease under the archway in the early afternoon was as certain to attract companionship as a pigeon which has found something worth peeking at. In this case there was no material object to feed upon, but the eye of reason saw a probability of mental sustenance in the shape of gossip. Mr. Hopkins, the meek-mannered draper opposite, was the first to act on this inward vision, being the more ambitious of a little masculine talk because his customers were chiefly women. Mr. Bambridge was rather curt to the draper, feeling that Hopkins was of course glad to talk to HIM, but that he was not going to waste much of his talk on Hopkins. Soon, however, there was a small cluster of more important listeners, who were either deposited from the passers-by, or had sauntered to the spot expressly to see if there were anything going on at the Green Dragon; and Mr. Bambridge was finding it worth his while to say many impressive things about the fine studs he had been seeing and the purchases he had made on a journey in the north from which he had just returned. Gentlemen present were assured that when they could show him anything to cut out a blood mare, a bay, rising four, which was to be seen at Doncaster if they chose to go and look at it, Mr. Bambridge would gratify them by being shot ‘from here to Hereford.’ Also, a pair of blacks which he was going to put into the break recalled vividly to his mind a pair which he had sold to Faulkner in ‘19, for a hundred guineas, and which Faulkner had sold for a hundred and sixty two months later—any gent who could disprove this statement being offered the privilege of calling Mr. Bambridge by a very ugly name until the exercise made his throat dry.
莱佛士去世五天后，班布里奇先生悠闲地站在通向绿龙院子的大拱门下。他不喜欢独自沉思，但他才刚从屋子里出来，午后在拱门下悠闲地站着的任何人影都一定会吸引同伴，就像一只鸽子找到了值得偷看的东西一样。在这种情况下，没有任何物质可以依靠，但理性的眼睛看到了以八卦的形式获得精神寄托的可能性。霍普金斯先生，这位温顺的布料商，是第一个按照这种内心愿景采取行动的人，他的雄心勃勃，有点男性化的言论，因为他的顾客主要是女性。班布里奇先生对布商的态度相当简短，他觉得霍普金斯当然很高兴与他交谈，但他不会在霍普金斯身上浪费太多谈话。然而很快，就有了一小群更重要的听众，他们要么是从路人那里托来的，要么是专门闲逛到现场，看看绿龙是否有什么事情；班布里奇先生发现值得花时间讲述许多令人印象深刻的事情，这些事情是关于他在北方旅行中看到的精美镶钉以及他刚从北方回来时所购买的物品。在场的先生们得到保证，当他们能向他展示任何东西来剪出一匹血母马，一匹海湾，上升四，如果他们选择去唐卡斯特看的话，班布里奇先生会通过枪杀来满足他们“从这里到赫里福德。”而且，他准备放入休息区的一双黑色鞋子，让他生动地想起了他在 19 年以 100 基尼的价格卖给福克纳的一双，而福克纳已经卖了一百六十二个月了。后来——任何能反驳这一说法的绅士都有权用一个非常丑陋的名字来称呼班布里奇先生，直到练习让他喉咙发干为止。

When the discourse was at this point of animation, came up Mr. Frank Hawley. He was not a man to compromise his dignity by lounging at the Green Dragon, but happening to pass along the High Street and seeing Bambridge on the other side, he took some of his long strides across to ask the horsedealer whether he had found the first-rate gig-horse which he had engaged to look for. Mr. Hawley was requested to wait until he had seen a gray selected at Bilkley: if that did not meet his wishes to a hair, Bambridge did not know a horse when he saw it, which seemed to be the highest conceivable unlikelihood. Mr. Hawley, standing with his back to the street, was fixing a time for looking at the gray and seeing it tried, when a horseman passed slowly by.
当谈话进行到这一步时，弗兰克·霍利先生上台了。他不是一个在绿龙酒吧里闲逛而损害自己尊严的人，但碰巧经过大街，看到另一边的班布里奇，他大步跨过去，问马贩他是否找到了第一条马车。 - 评价他委托寻找的马匹。霍利先生被要求等到他在比尔克利看到一匹灰色的马：如果这不能满足他对头发的愿望，班布里奇在看到它时就不认识一匹马，这似乎是最不可能的。霍利先生背对着街道站着，正在安排时间观察灰色并尝试尝试，这时一个骑马的人慢慢地经过。

‘Bulstrode!’ said two or three voices at once in a low tone, one of them, which was the draper’s, respectfully prefixing the ‘Mr.;’ but nobody having more intention in this interjectural naming than if they had said ‘the Riverston coach’ when that vehicle appeared in the distance. Mr. Hawley gave a careless glance round at Bulstrode’s back, but as Bambridge’s eyes followed it he made a sarcastic grimace.
“布尔斯特罗德！”两三个声音同时低声说道，其中一个是布料商，恭敬地在“先生”前面加上了前缀；但是没有人比他们说“里弗斯顿”更愿意用这种间代词命名。当那辆车出现在远处时。霍利先生漫不经心地环视布尔斯特罗德的背影，但当班布里奇的目光追随他时，他做了个讽刺的鬼脸。

‘By jingo! that reminds me,’ he began, lowering his voice a little, ‘I picked up something else at Bilkley besides your gig-horse, Mr. Hawley. I picked up a fine story about Bulstrode. Do you know how he came by his fortune? Any gentleman wanting a bit of curious information, I can give it him free of expense. If everybody got their deserts, Bulstrode might have had to say his prayers at Botany Bay.’
‘金戈！这让我想起了，”他压低了声音说道，“霍利先生，除了你的马车之外，我在比尔克利还捡到了一些别的东西。我发现了一个关于布尔斯特罗德的好故事。你知道他的财富是怎么来的吗？任何想要一些好奇信息的绅士，我都可以免费提供给他。如果每个人都得到了自己的应得，布尔斯特罗德可能不得不在植物湾祈祷。

‘What do you mean?’ said Mr. Hawley, thrusting his hands into his pockets, and pushing a little forward under the archway. If Bulstrode should turn out to be a rascal, Frank Hawley had a prophetic soul.
“你这是什么意思？”霍利先生说，他把手伸进口袋，在拱门下向前推了一点。如果布尔斯特罗德最终被证明是一个无赖，那么弗兰克·霍利就有一个预言性的灵魂。

‘I had it from a party who was an old chum of Bulstrode’s. I’ll tell you where I first picked him up,’ said Bambridge, with a sudden gesture of his fore-finger. ‘He was at Larcher’s sale, but I knew nothing of him then—he slipped through my fingers— was after Bulstrode, no doubt. He tells me he can tap Bulstrode to any amount, knows all his secrets. However, he blabbed to me at Bilkley: he takes a stiff glass. Damme if I think he meant to turn king’s evidence; but he’s that sort of bragging fellow, the bragging runs over hedge and ditch with him, till he’d brag of a spavin as if it ‘ud fetch money. A man should know when to pull up.’ Mr. Bambridge made this remark with an air of disgust, satisfied that his own bragging showed a fine sense of the marketable.
“我从布尔斯特罗德的一个老朋友那里得到了它。我会告诉你我第一次在哪里遇见他的，”班布里奇突然伸出食指说道。 “他参加了拉彻的拍卖会，但当时我对他一无所知——他从我的指缝中溜走了——毫无疑问，他是在追随布尔斯特罗德。他告诉我他可以任意程度地利用布尔斯特罗德，知道他所有的秘密。然而，他在比尔克利对我喋喋不休：他拿了一个硬玻璃杯。如果我认为他打算提供国王的证据，该死的；但他就是那种爱吹牛的家伙，吹牛的劲儿随着他越过树篱和沟渠，直到他吹嘘一只斯帕文，就好像它能赚到钱一样。一个人应该知道什么时候停下来。”班布里奇先生带着厌恶的神情说出这句话，他对自己的吹牛表现出良好的市场意识感到满意。

‘What’s the man’s name? Where can he be found?’ said Mr. Hawley.
‘那个男人叫什么名字？ “在哪里可以找到他？”霍利先生说道。

‘As to where he is to be found, I left him to it at the Saracen’s Head; but his name is Raffles.’
“至于在哪里可以找到他，我把他留给了撒拉逊人头。”但他的名字叫莱佛士。”

‘Raffles!’ exclaimed Mr. Hopkins. ‘I furnished his funeral yesterday. He was buried at Lowick. Mr. Bulstrode followed him. A very decent funeral.’ There was a strong sensation among the listeners. Mr. Bambridge gave an ejaculation in which ‘brimstone’ was the mildest word, and Mr. Hawley, knitting his brows and bending his head forward, exclaimed, ‘What?—where did the man die?’
“莱佛士！”霍普金斯先生喊道。 “我昨天为他准备了葬礼。他被埋葬在洛威克。布尔斯特罗德先生跟在他后面。一场非常体面的葬礼。”听众中引起了强烈的共鸣。班布里奇先生喊了一声，其中“硫磺”是最温和的词，霍利先生皱起眉头，向前低下头，惊呼道：“什么？——这个人死在哪里？”

‘At Stone Court,’ said the draper. ‘The housekeeper said he was a relation of the master’s. He came there ill on Friday.’
“在斯通庭院，”布艺师说。 ‘管家说他是主人的亲戚。周五他带着病来到那里。

‘Why, it was on Wednesday I took a glass with him,’ interposed Bambridge.
“哎呀，周三我和他一起喝了一杯，”班布里奇插话道。

‘Did any doctor attend him?’ said Mr. Hawley
“有医生给他看病吗？”霍利先生说。

‘Yes. Mr. Lydgate. Mr. Bulstrode sat up with him one night. He died the third morning.’
'是的。利德盖特先生。有一天晚上，布尔斯特罗德先生陪着他一起坐了起来。第三天早上他就死了。”

‘Go on, Bambridge,’ said Mr. Hawley, insistently. ‘What did this fellow say about Bulstrode?’
“继续，班布里奇，”霍利先生坚持说。 “这个家伙对布尔斯特罗德说了什么？”

The group had already become larger, the town-clerk’s presence being a guarantee that something worth listening to was going on there; and Mr. Bambridge delivered his narrative in the hearing of seven. It was mainly what we know, including the fact about Will Ladislaw, with some local color and circumstance added: it was what Bulstrode had dreaded the betrayal of—and hoped to have buried forever with the corpse of Raffles—it was that haunting ghost of his earlier life which as he rode past the archway of the Green Dragon he was trusting that Providence had delivered him from. Yes, Providence. He had not confessed to himself yet that he had done anything in the way of contrivance to this end; he had accepted what seemed to have been offered. It was impossible to prove that he had done anything which hastened the departure of that man’s soul.
人群已经变得更大了，镇书记员的存在保证了那里正在发生一些值得倾听的事情。班布里奇先生在七人听证会上发表了他的叙述。这主要是我们所知道的，包括关于威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的事实，加上一些当地的色彩和环境：这是布尔斯特罗德害怕背叛的东西——并希望与莱佛士的尸体永远埋葬——这是那个令人难以忘怀的幽灵。当他骑着马经过绿龙的拱门时，他相信上帝已经把他从早年的生活中解救出来了。是的，普罗维登斯。他还没有向自己承认，他为此做了任何阴谋。他似乎已经接受了所提供的东西。无法证明他做了什么加速了那个人灵魂离开的事情。

But this gossip about Bulstrode spread through Middlemarch like the smell of fire. Mr. Frank Hawley followed up his information by sending a clerk whom he could trust to Stone Court on a pretext of inquiring about hay, but really to gather all that could be learned about Raffles and his illness from Mrs. Abel. In this way it came to his knowledge that Mr. Garth had carried the man to Stone Court in his gig; and Mr. Hawley in consequence took an opportunity of seeing Caleb, calling at his office to ask whether he had time to undertake an arbitration if it were required, and then asking him incidentally about Raffles. Caleb was betrayed into no word injurious to Bulstrode beyond the fact which he was forced to admit, that he had given up acting for him within the last week. Mr Hawley drew his inferences, and feeling convinced that Raffles had told his story to Garth, and that Garth had given up Bulstrode’s affairs in consequence, said so a few hours later to Mr. Toller. The statement was passed on until it had quite lost the stamp of an inference, and was taken as information coming straight from Garth, so that even a diligent historian might have concluded Caleb to be the chief publisher of Bulstrode’s misdemeanors.
但有关布尔斯特罗德的流言蜚语像火的气味一样传遍了米德尔马契。弗兰克·霍利先生跟进了他的信息，派了一名他可以信任的职员到斯通考特，借口是询问干草的情况，但实际上是为了从阿贝尔夫人那里收集有关莱佛士及其疾病的所有信息。这样他就知道加斯先生用他的平底车把那个人带到了斯通庭院。霍利先生因此趁机见到了凯莱布，打电话到他的办公室，询问他是否有时间在需要时进行仲裁，然后顺便向他询问了莱佛士的情况。除了被迫承认自己在上周放弃了为布尔斯特罗德表演这一事实之外，凯勒布并没有说出任何伤害布尔斯特罗德的话。霍利先生做出了推断，并确信莱佛士已经把他的故事告诉了加斯，而加斯因此放弃了布尔斯特罗德的事务，几个小时后对托勒先生如此说道。这份声明一直流传下去，直到它完全失去了推论的印记，并被视为直接来自加斯的信息，因此，即使是一位勤奋的历史学家也可能得出结论，凯莱布是布尔斯特罗德轻罪的主要出版者。

Mr. Hawley was not slow to perceive that there was no handle for the law either in the revelations made by Raffles or in the circumstances of his death. He had himself ridden to Lowick village that he might look at the register and talk over the whole matter with Mr. Farebrother, who was not more surprised than the lawyer that an ugly secret should have come to light about Bulstrode, though he had always had justice enough in him to hinder his antipathy from turning into conclusions. But while they were talking another combination was silently going forward in Mr. Farebrother’s mind, which foreshadowed what was soon to be loudly spoken of in Middlemarch as a necessary ‘putting of two and two together.’ With the reasons which kept Bulstrode in dread of Raffles there flashed the thought that the dread might have something to do with his munificence towards his medical man; and though he resisted the suggestion that it had been consciously accepted in any way as a bribe, he had a foreboding that this complication of things might be of malignant effect on Lydgate’s reputation. He perceived that Mr. Hawley knew nothing at present of the sudden relief from debt, and he himself was careful to glide away from all approaches towards the subject.
霍利先生很快就意识到，无论是莱佛士的揭露还是他的死亡情况，都没有法律依据。他自己骑车去了洛威克村，以便他可以查看收银机并与费雷布拉泽先生讨论整个事情，费雷布拉泽先生并不比律师更惊讶，因为关于布尔斯特罗德的一个丑陋的秘密竟然被揭露了，尽管他一直以来都知道他的正义感足以阻止他的反感变成结论。但当他们谈话的时候，另一种组合在费尔布拉泽先生的脑海中悄然浮现，这预示着很快就会在《米德尔马奇》中被大声谈论的“两个和两个的组合”的必要性。莱佛士突然想到，这种恐惧可能与他对医生的慷慨有关。虽然他否认有人有意识地以任何方式接受了贿赂，但他有一种不祥的预感，事情的复杂化可能会对利德盖特的声誉产生恶性影响。他发现霍利先生目前对突然免除债务一事一无所知，他本人也小心翼翼地回避了所有讨论这个问题的方法。

‘Well,’ he said, with a deep breath, wanting to wind up the illimitable discussion of what might have been, though nothing could be legally proven, ‘it is a strange story. So our mercurial Ladislaw has a queer genealogy! A high-spirited young lady and a musical Polish patriot made a likely enough stock for him to spring from, but I should never have suspected a grafting of the Jew pawnbroker. However, there’s no knowing what a mixture will turn out beforehand. Some sorts of dirt serve to clarify.’
“好吧，”他深吸了一口气，想要结束对可能发生的事情的无限讨论，尽管没有什么可以得到法律证明，“这是一个奇怪的故事。”所以我们善变的拉迪斯瓦有一个奇怪的家谱！一位精力充沛的年轻女士和一位音乐波兰爱国者很可能为他提供了足够的股票，但我永远不应该怀疑犹太当铺的嫁接。然而，事先不知道混合物会产生什么结果。有些污垢可以起到澄清作用。

‘It’s just what I should have expected,’ said Mr. Hawley, mounting his horse. ‘Any cursed alien blood, Jew, Corsican, or Gypsy.’
“这正是我所料到的，”霍利先生骑上马说道。 “任何被诅咒的外星血统，犹太人、科西嘉人或吉普赛人。”

‘I know he’s one of your black sheep, Hawley. But he is really a disinterested, unworldly fellow,’ said Mr. Farebrother, smiling.
“我知道他是你的害群之马之一，霍利。但他确实是一个无私、不谙世事的人。”费雷布拉泽先生微笑着说道。

‘Ay, ay, that is your Whiggish twist,’ said Mr. Hawley, who had been in the habit of saying apologetically that Farebrother was such a damned pleasant good-hearted fellow you would mistake him for a Tory.
“哎呀，哎呀，这就是你的辉格党风格，”霍利先生说，他一直习惯于带着歉意地说费雷布拉泽是个该死的令人愉快的好心人，你会把他误认为是保守党人。

Mr. Hawley rode home without thinking of Lydgate’s attendance on Raffles in any other light than as a piece of evidence on the side of Bulstrode. But the news that Lydgate had all at once become able not only to get rid of the execution in his house but to pay all his debts in Middlemarch was spreading fast, gathering round it conjectures and comments which gave it new body and impetus, and soon filling the ears of other persons besides Mr. Hawley, who were not slow to see a significant relation between this sudden command of money and Bulstrode’s desire to stifle the scandal of Raffles. That the money came from Bulstrode would infallibly have been guessed even if there had been no direct evidence of it; for it had beforehand entered into the gossip about Lydgate’s affairs, that neither his father-in-law nor his own family would do anything for him, and direct evidence was furnished not only by a clerk at the Bank, but by innocent Mrs. Bulstrode herself, who mentioned the loan to Mrs. Plymdale, who mentioned it to her daughter-in-law of the house of Toller, who mentioned it generally. The business was felt to be so public and important that it required dinners to feed it, and many invitations were just then issued and accepted on the strength of this scandal concerning Bulstrode and Lydgate; wives, widows, and single ladies took their work and went out to tea oftener than usual; and all public conviviality, from the Green Dragon to Dollop’s, gathered a zest which could not be won from the question whether the Lords would throw out the Reform Bill.
霍利先生骑车回家，并没有把利德盖特参加莱佛士会的任何其他想法视为布尔斯特罗德一方的证据。但是，利德盖特突然不仅能够摆脱在他家里的处决，而且能够偿还他在米德尔马契的所有债务的消息迅速传播，围绕着它聚集了猜测和评论，这给了它新的实体和动力，很快除了霍利先生之外，其他人的耳朵也充满了这些声音，他们很快就发现了这种突然的金钱控制与布尔斯特罗德想要扼杀莱佛士丑闻之间的重要关系。即使没有直接证据，人们也能准确无误地猜测这笔钱来自布尔斯特罗德。因为关于利德盖特的事情事先就已经流传开来，说他的岳父和他自己的家人都不会为他做任何事，直接证据不仅由银行的一名职员提供，而且由无辜的布尔斯特罗德夫人提供。她向普林代尔夫人提到了这笔贷款，普林代尔夫人又向她托勒家的儿媳提到了这件事，后者笼统地提到了这件事。人们认为这项业务是如此公开和重要，以至于需要晚餐来养活它，并且由于有关布尔斯特罗德和利德盖特的丑闻，许多邀请都在那时发出并被接受。妻子、寡妇和单身女士比平时更常带着工作出去喝茶。所有公众的欢乐，从绿龙到多洛普，都聚集了一种热情，而这种热情是无法从上议院是否会否决改革法案的问题中赢得的。

For hardly anybody doubted that some scandalous reason or other was at the bottom of Bulstrode’s liberality to Lydgate. Mr. Hawley indeed, in the first instance, invited a select party, including the two physicians, with Mr Toller and Mr. Wrench, expressly to hold a close discussion as to the probabilities of Raffles’s illness, reciting to them all the particulars which had been gathered from Mrs. Abel in connection with Lydgate’s certificate, that the death was due to delirium tremens; and the medical gentlemen, who all stood undisturbedly on the old paths in relation to this disease, declared that they could see nothing in these particulars which could be transformed into a positive ground of suspicion. But the moral grounds of suspicion remained: the strong motives Bulstrode clearly had for wishing to be rid of Raffles, and the fact that at this critical moment he had given Lydgate the help which he must for some time have known the need for; the disposition, moreover, to believe that Bulstrode would be unscrupulous, and the absence of any indisposition to believe that Lydgate might be as easily bribed as other haughty-minded men when they have found themselves in want of money. Even if the money had been given merely to make him hold his tongue about the scandal of Bulstrode’s earlier life, the fact threw an odious light on Lydgate, who had long been sneered at as making himself subservient to the banker for the sake of working himself into predominance, and discrediting the elder members of his profession. Hence, in spite of the negative as to any direct sign of guilt in relation to the death at Stone Court, Mr. Hawley’s select party broke up with the sense that the affair had ‘an ugly look.’
因为几乎没有人怀疑布尔斯特罗德对利德盖特的慷慨背后有某种可耻的理由。事实上，霍利先生首先邀请了一个选定的团体，其中包括两位医生，以及托勒先生和扳手先生，明确地就莱佛士患病的可能性进行了密切讨论，并向他们复述了所有的细节。从阿贝尔夫人处收集到的与利德盖特的证明有关的信息，证明死亡是由于震颤性谵妄所致；医学界的绅士们都平静地站在与这种疾病有关的老路上，宣称他们在这些细节中看不到任何可以转化为怀疑的积极理由。但怀疑的道德理由仍然存在：布尔斯特罗德显然有强烈的动机希望摆脱莱佛士，而且事实上，在这个关键时刻，他向利德盖特提供了帮助，而他一定早就知道需要帮助；此外，他倾向于相信布尔斯特罗德会不择手段，而且也没有任何理由相信利德盖特可能像其他傲慢的人一样，当他们发现自己缺钱时，很容易被贿赂。即使这笔钱只是为了让他对布尔斯特罗德早年的丑闻保持沉默，这一事实也给利德盖特带来了可恶的光芒，长期以来，他一直被嘲笑为为了自己的工作而屈服于银行家占据主导地位，并诋毁其职业中的资深成员。因此，尽管没有任何直接证据表明与斯通法院的死亡有关的有罪迹象，霍利先生的精选政党还是分手了，因为他们认为这件事“看起来很丑陋”。

But this vague conviction of indeterminable guilt, which was enough to keep up much head-shaking and biting innuendo even among substantial professional seniors, had for the general mind all the superior power of mystery over fact. Everybody liked better to conjecture how the thing was, than simply to know it; for conjecture soon became more confident than knowledge, and had a more liberal allowance for the incompatible. Even the more definite scandal concerning Bulstrode’s earlier life was, for some minds, melted into the mass of mystery, as so much lively metal to be poured out in dialogue, and to take such fantastic shapes as heaven pleased.
但这种对无法确定的罪责的模糊信念，即使在资深专业人士中，也足以让他们不断摇头和尖酸刻薄的暗示，对一般人来说，神秘比事实具有更强大的力量。每个人都更喜欢猜测事情是怎么回事，而不是简单地了解它。因为猜想很快就变得比知识更有信心，并且对不相容的事物有更自由的宽容。即使是有关布尔斯特罗德早年生活的更明确的丑闻，对某些人来说，也融入了一大堆神秘之中，就像在对话中倾倒出如此多的活泼金属，并随天意而呈现出如此奇妙的形状。

This was the tone of thought chiefly sanctioned by Mrs. Dollop, the spirited landlady of the Tankard in Slaughter Lane, who had often to resist the shallow pragmatism of customers disposed to think that their reports from the outer world were of equal force with what had ‘come up’ in her mind. How it had been brought to her she didn’t know, but it was there before her as if it had been scored with the chalk on the chimney-board—‘ as Bulstrode should say, his inside was THAT BLACK as if the hairs of his head knowed the thoughts of his heart, he’d tear ‘em up by the roots.’
这种思想基调主要得到了多洛普夫人的认可，她是屠宰巷酒馆的一位精力充沛的女老板，她经常抵制顾客的浅薄实用主义，他们倾向于认为他们从外部世界得到的报告与实际情况具有同等的效力。在她的脑海中“出现”。她不知道它是如何被带到她面前的，但它就在她面前，就好像它是用粉笔在烟囱板上划过的一样——”正如布尔斯特罗德所说，他的内心是那么黑，就像是头发一样黑。他的头脑知道他内心的想法，他会把它们连根拔起。

‘That’s odd,’ said Mr. Limp, a meditative shoemaker, with weak eyes and a piping voice. ‘Why, I read in the ‘Trumpet’ that was what the Duke of Wellington said when he turned his coat and went over to the Romans.’
“这很奇怪，”林普先生说道，他是一位沉思的鞋匠，他的眼睛无力，声音沙哑。 “哎呀，我在‘喇叭’里读到，威灵顿公爵翻起外套走向罗马人时是这么说的。”

‘Very like,’ said Mrs. Dollop. ‘If one raskill said it, it’s more reason why another should. But hypoCRITE as he’s been, and holding things with that high hand, as there was no parson i’ the country good enough for him, he was forced to take Old Harry into his counsel, and Old Harry’s been too many for him.’
“非常喜欢，”多洛普太太说。 “如果一个拉斯基尔这么说，那么另一个拉斯基尔就更应该这么做。但是，尽管他一直很伪善，而且总是居高临下，因为这个国家没有足够好的牧师适合他，他被迫接受老哈利的建议，而老哈利对他来说已经太多了。

‘Ay, ay, he’s a ‘complice you can’t send out o’ the country,’ said Mr. Crabbe, the glazier, who gathered much news and groped among it dimly. ‘But by what I can make out, there’s them says Bulstrode was for running away, for fear o’ being found out, before now.’
“哎呀，哎呀，他是个‘同谋’，你不能把他赶出这个国家。”玻璃匠克拉布先生说，他收集了很多消息，并模模糊糊地在其中摸索着。 “但据我所知，他们说布尔斯特罗德之前就打算逃跑，因为害怕被发现。”

‘He’ll be drove away, whether or no,’ said Mr. Dill, the barber, who had just dropped in. ‘I shaved Fletcher, Hawley’s clerk, this morning—he’s got a bad finger—and he says they’re all of one mind to get rid of Bulstrode. Mr. Thesiger is turned against him, and wants him out o’ the parish. And there’s gentlemen in this town says they’d as soon dine with a fellow from the hulks. ‘And a deal sooner I would,’ says Fletcher; ‘for what’s more against one’s stomach than a man coming and making himself bad company with his religion, and giving out as the Ten Commandments are not enough for him, and all the while he’s worse than half the men at the tread-mill?’ Fletcher said so himself.’
“无论是否，他都会被赶走，”刚刚顺便过来的理发师迪尔先生说。“今天早上我给霍利的店员弗莱彻剃了胡子——他的手指不好——他说他们是大家齐心协力除掉布尔斯特罗德。塞西格先生开始反对他，并希望他离开教区。这个镇上的绅士们说他们宁愿和来自绿巨人的家伙一起吃饭。 “我会尽快达成协议，”弗莱彻说。 “因为，还有什么比一个人来到这里，与他的宗教结下不解之缘，并因为十诫对他来说还不够而放弃，而他却一直比跑步机上一半的人更糟糕，还有什么比这更令人反胃的呢？”弗莱彻本人也是这么说的。

‘It’ll be a bad thing for the town though, if Bulstrode’s money goes out of it,’ said Mr. Limp, quaveringly.
“不过，如果布尔斯特罗德的钱花光了，这对镇上来说将是一件坏事，”林普先生颤抖着说道。

‘Ah, there’s better folks spend their money worse,’ said a firm-voiced dyer, whose crimson hands looked out of keeping with his good-natured face.
“啊，有更好的人把钱花得更糟。”一位染工声音坚定地说，他的深红色双手看起来与他和蔼可亲的脸格格不入。

‘But he won’t keep his money, by what I can make out,’ said the glazier. ‘Don’t they say as there’s somebody can strip it off him? By what I can understan’, they could take every penny off him, if they went to lawing.’
“但据我所知，他不会保留他的钱，”玻璃匠说。 ‘他们不是说有人可以把它从他身上夺走吗？据我所知，如果他们去找律师，他们可以拿走他的每一分钱。

‘No such thing!’ said the barber, who felt himself a little above his company at Dollop’s, but liked it none the worse. ‘Fletcher says it’s no such thing. He says they might prove over and over again whose child this young Ladislaw was, and they’d do no more than if they proved I came out of the Fens—he couldn’t touch a penny.’
“没有这样的事！”理发师说，他觉得自己比多洛普的公司高一些，但并不因此而感到更糟。 “弗莱彻说根本不是这样的事情。他说他们可能会一遍又一遍地证明这个年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫是谁的孩子，他们不会做更多的事情，就像他们证明我是从沼泽出来的一样——他不能碰一分钱。

‘Look you there now!’ said Mrs. Dollop, indignantly. ‘I thank the Lord he took my children to Himself, if that’s all the law can do for the motherless. Then by that, it’s o’ no use who your father and mother is. But as to listening to what one lawyer says without asking another—I wonder at a man o’ your cleverness, Mr. Dill. It’s well known there’s always two sides, if no more; else who’d go to law, I should like to know? It’s a poor tale, with all the law as there is up and down, if it’s no use proving whose child you are. Fletcher may say that if he likes, but I say, don’t Fletcher ME!’
“看你现在！”多洛普太太愤怒地说。 “我感谢上帝，他把我的孩子带到了自己身边，如果这就是法律能为失去母亲的人做的一切。这样一来，你的父亲和母亲是谁就没有意义了。但至于只听一位律师的说法而不询问另一位律师——我对你的聪明才智感到惊讶，迪尔先生。众所周知，总是有两个方面，甚至更多。我想知道还有谁会诉诸法律吗？如果证明你是谁的孩子没有用的话，这就是一个糟糕的故事，所有的法律都有上下之分。弗莱彻可能会这么说，如果他愿意的话，但我说，不要弗莱彻我！

Mr. Dill affected to laugh in a complimentary way at Mrs. Dollop, as a woman who was more than a match for the lawyers; being disposed to submit to much twitting from a landlady who had a long score against him.
迪尔先生假装恭维地嘲笑多洛普太太，认为她是一位完全配不上律师的女人。他很乐意接受一位与他有很大分歧的女房东的嘲笑。

‘If they come to lawing, and it’s all true as folks say, there’s more to be looked to nor money,’ said the glazier. ‘There’s this poor creetur as is dead and gone; by what I can make out, he’d seen the day when he was a deal finer gentleman nor Bulstrode.’
“如果他们来打官司，正如人们所说的那样，那就需要更多的关注，而不是金钱，”玻璃工说。 ‘这个可怜的生物已经死了，消失了；据我所知，他已经看到了自己比布尔斯特罗德更优秀的绅士的那一天。

‘Finer gentleman! I’ll warrant him,’ said Mrs. Dollop; ‘and a far personabler man, by what I can hear. As I said when Mr. Baldwin, the tax-gatherer, comes in, a-standing where you sit, and says, ‘Bulstrode got all his money as he brought into this town by thieving and swindling,’—I said, ‘You don’t make me no wiser, Mr. Baldwin: it’s set my blood a-creeping to look at him ever sin’ here he came into Slaughter Lane a-wanting to buy the house over my head: folks don’t look the color o’ the dough-tub and stare at you as if they wanted to see into your backbone for nothingk.’ That was what I said, and Mr. Baldwin can bear me witness.’
‘更优秀的绅士！ “我会保证他的。”多洛普太太说道。据我所知，他是一个更有风度的人。正如我所说，当收税员鲍德温先生进来时，他站在你坐的地方，说：“布尔斯特罗德通过偷窃和诈骗将所有的钱带到这个镇上，”我说，“你别让我变得更聪明，鲍德温先生：看到他在这里犯下的罪，我的血液都在蠕动，他来到了屠宰巷，想要在我头上买下房子：人们看起来不像肤色“哦，面团桶，盯着你，好像他们无缘无故地想看穿你的脊梁骨。”这就是我所说的，鲍德温先生可以为我作证。

‘And in the rights of it too,’ said Mr. Crabbe. ‘For by what I can make out, this Raffles, as they call him, was a lusty, fresh-colored man as you’d wish to see, and the best o’ company—though dead he lies in Lowick churchyard sure enough; and by what I can understan’, there’s them knows more than they SHOULD know about how he got there.’
“这也是它的权利，”克拉布先生说。 “据我所知，这个莱佛士，他们这样称呼他，是一个精力充沛、肤色鲜亮的人，正如你所希望看到的那样，也是最好的伙伴——尽管他已经死了，但他确实躺在洛威克墓地里；据我所知，关于他是如何到达那里的，他们知道的比他们应该知道的还要多。

‘I’ll believe you!’ said Mrs. Dallop, with a touch of scorn at Mr. Crabbe’s apparent dimness. ‘When a man’s been ‘ticed to a lone house, and there’s them can pay for hospitals and nurses for half the country-side choose to be sitters-up night and day, and nobody to come near but a doctor as is known to stick at nothingk, and as poor as he can hang together, and after that so flush o’ money as he can pay off Mr. Byles the butcher as his bill has been running on for the best o’ joints since last Michaelmas was a twelvemonth—I don’t want anybody to come and tell me as there’s been more going on nor the Prayer-book’s got a service for— I don’t want to stand winking and blinking and thinking.’
“我会相信你的！”达洛普夫人说道，对克拉布先生明显的迟钝表示轻蔑。 “当一个人被困在一所孤独的房子里，他们可以支付半个乡村的医院和护士费用时，他会选择日夜守候，除了众所周知的坚持不懈的医生之外，没有人可以靠近。”他一无所获，穷到可以勉强维持下去，之后他的钱就足够充裕，可以还清屠夫拜尔斯先生的钱了，因为自去年米迦勒节以来，他的账单一直在为最好的关节而奔波，已经过去了十二个月——我不想让任何人来告诉我，因为发生了更多事情，祈祷书也没有服务——我不想站着眨眼睛思考。

Mrs. Dollop looked round with the air of a landlady accustomed to dominate her company. There was a chorus of adhesion from the more courageous; but Mr. Limp, after taking a draught, placed his fiat hands together and pressed them hard between his knees, looking down at them with blear-eyed contemplation, as if the scorching power of Mrs. Dollop’s speech had quite dried up and nullified his wits until they could be brought round again by further moisture.
多洛普太太环顾四周，一副惯于在公司里占主导地位的女房东的神情。勇敢的人齐声附和。但林普先生喝了一口之后，将他那双苍白的双手放在一起，用力按在膝盖之间，低头看着他们，眼神昏暗，陷入沉思，仿佛多洛普夫人演讲中的灼热力量已经完全干涸，使他的演讲无效。直到它们能因进一步的潮湿而再次苏醒。

‘Why shouldn’t they dig the man up and have the Crowner?’ said the dyer. ‘It’s been done many and many’s the time. If there’s been foul play they might find it out.’
“他们为什么不把这个人挖出来，拿走皇冠呢？”染工说。 ‘这样的事已经做过很多次了。如果有不法行为，他们可能会发现。”

‘Not they, Mr. Jonas!’ said Mrs Dollop, emphatically.’I know what doctors are. They’re a deal too cunning to be found out. And this Doctor Lydgate that’s been for cutting up everybody before the breath was well out o’ their body—it’s plain enough what use he wanted to make o’ looking into respectable people’s insides. He knows drugs, you may be sure, as you can neither smell nor see, neither before they’re swallowed nor after. Why, I’ve seen drops myself ordered by Doctor Gambit, as is our club doctor and a good charikter, and has brought more live children into the world nor ever another i’ Middlemarch—I say I’ve seen drops myself as made no difference whether they was in the glass or out, and yet have griped you the next day. So I’ll leave your own sense to judge. Don’t tell me! All I say is, it’s a mercy they didn’t take this Doctor Lydgate on to our club. There’s many a mother’s child might ha’ rued it.’
“不是他们，乔纳斯先生！”多洛普夫人强调说，“我知道什么是医生。”他们的交易太狡猾了，很难被发现。这位利德盖特医生在所有人都喘不过气来之前就把他们肢解了——很明显，他想对受人尊敬的人的内心进行研究，有什么用处。你可以肯定，他了解毒品，因为你既不能闻到也不能看到，无论是在吞下毒品之前还是吞下之后。哎呀，我亲眼见过甘比特医生下的滴剂，就像我们的俱乐部医生和一位优秀的慈善家一样，并且给这个世界带来了更多活生生的孩子，在米德尔马契，我说我自己也见过滴剂，因为没有制造过。无论它们是在玻璃里还是在玻璃外，它们都有所不同，但第二天却让你烦恼不已。所以我会留给你自己的判断。别告诉我！我想说的是，幸好他们没有把利德盖特医生带到我们的俱乐部。很多母亲的孩子可能会后悔。

The heads of this discussion at ‘Dollop’s’ had been the common theme among all classes in the town, had been carried to Lowick Parsonage on one side and to Tipton Grange on the other, had come fully to the ears of the Vincy family, and had been discussed with sad reference to ‘poor Harriet’ by all Mrs. Bulstrode’s friends, before Lydgate knew distinctly why people were looking strangely at him, and before Bulstrode himself suspected the betrayal of his secrets. He had not been accustomed to very cordial relations with his neighbors, and hence he could not miss the signs of cordiality; moreover, he had been taking journeys on business of various kinds, having now made up his mind that he need not quit Middlemarch, and feeling able consequently to determine on matters which he had before left in suspense.
“多洛普”的这场讨论的主题是镇上各阶层的共同主题，一边被带到了洛威克牧师住宅，另一边被带到了蒂普顿农庄，已经完全传到了文西一家的耳朵里，而且在利德盖特清楚地知道为什么人们用奇怪的眼神看着他之前，在布尔斯特罗德本人怀疑他的秘密被泄露之前，布尔斯特罗德夫人的所有朋友都悲伤地讨论过“可怜的哈里特”。他不习惯与邻居保持非常友好的关系，因此他不可能错过友好的迹象。此外，他一直在出差，处理各种事务，现在已经下定决心不必离开米德尔马契，因此感觉能够对之前悬而未决的事情做出决定。

‘We will make a journey to Cheltenham in the course of a month or two,’ he had said to his wife. ‘There are great spiritual advantages to be had in that town along with the air and the waters, and six weeks there will be eminently refreshing to us.’
“我们将在一两个月内前往切尔滕纳姆，”他对妻子说。 “那个小镇有很大的精神优势，还有空气和水域，六周的时间会让我们感到非常清爽。”

He really believed in the spiritual advantages, and meant that his life henceforth should be the more devoted because of those later sins which he represented to himself as hypothetic, praying hypothetically for their pardon:—‘if I have herein transgressed.’ as to the Hospital, he avoided saying anything further to Lydgate, fearing to manifest a too sudden change of plans immediately on the death of Raffles. In his secret soul he believed that Lydgate suspected his orders to have been intentionally disobeyed, and suspecting this he must also suspect a motive. But nothing had been betrayed to him as to the history of Raffles, and Bulstrode was anxious not to do anything which would give emphasis to his undefined suspicions. As to any certainty that a particular method of treatment would either save or kill, Lydgate himself was constantly arguing against such dogmatism; he had no right to speak, and he had every motive for being silent. Hence Bulstrode felt himself providentially secured. The only incident he had strongly winced under had been an occasional encounter with Caleb Garth, who, however, had raised his hat with mild gravity.
他确实相信精神上的优势，并意味着他的生活从此应该更加奉献，因为他对自己描述为假设的后来的罪过，假设地祈祷他们的宽恕：“如果我在这里犯了罪。”医院期间，他避免对利德盖特说任何进一步的话，担心莱佛士去世后立即表现出过于突然的计划改变。在他秘密的灵魂里，他相信利德盖特怀疑他的命令被故意违反，而怀疑这一点他也必须怀疑动机。但关于莱佛士的历史，他并没有被泄露，布尔斯特罗德急于不做任何会加剧他不确定的怀疑的事情。至于某种特定的治疗方法要么拯救要么致命的确定性，利德盖特本人一直在反对这种教条主义。他没有权利说话，他完全有理由保持沉默。因此，布尔斯特罗德感到自己得到了天赐的保障。唯一让他感到强烈畏缩的事件是偶尔遇到凯莱布·加斯，但他却以温和的严肃态度举起了帽子。

Meanwhile, on the part of the principal townsmen a strong determination was growing against him.
与此同时，主要城镇居民反对他的决心越来越强烈。

A meeting was to be held in the Town-Hall on a sanitary question which had risen into pressing importance by the occurrence of a cholera case in the town. Since the Act of Parliament, which had been hurriedly passed, authorizing assessments for sanitary measures, there had been a Board for the superintendence of such measures appointed in Middlemarch, and much cleansing and preparation had been concurred in by Whigs and Tories. The question now was, whether a piece of ground outside the town should be secured as a burial-ground by means of assessment or by private subscription. The meeting was to be open, and almost everybody of importance in the town was expected to be there.
市政厅将就卫生问题召开一次会议，该问题因该镇发生的霍乱病例而变得紧迫。自从仓促通过的《议会法案》授权对卫生措施进行评估以来，在米德尔马契任命了一个监督此类措施的委员会，辉格党和托利党也同意进行许多清理和准备工作。现在的问题是，城外的一块土地是否应该通过评估或私人认购的方式获得作为墓地。会议是公开的，镇上几乎所有重要人物都应该出席。

Mr. Bulstrode was a member of the Board, and just before twelve o’clock he started from the Bank with the intention of urging the plan of private subscription. Under the hesitation of his projects, he had for some time kept himself in the background, and he felt that he should this morning resume his old position as a man of action and influence in the public affairs of the town where he expected to end his days. Among the various persons going in the same direction, he saw Lydgate; they joined, talked over the object of the meeting, and entered it together.
布尔斯特罗德先生是董事会成员，就在十二点之前，他从银行出发，打算敦促私人认购计划。在对他的计划犹豫不决的情况下，他有一段时间把自己隐藏在幕后，他觉得今天早上他应该恢复他的旧职位，作为一个在他希望结束他的生活的小镇公共事务中的行动者和影响力的人。天。在同一个方向走来的人群中，他看到了利德盖特。他们加入进来，讨论了会议的目标，然后一起参加了会议。

It seemed that everybody of mark had been earlier than they. But there were still spaces left near the head of the large central table, and they made their way thither. Mr. Farebrother sat opposite, not far from Mr. Hawley; all the medical men were there; Mr. Thesiger was in the chair, and Mr. Brooke of Tipton was on his right hand.
看来马克的每个人都比他们早。但中央那张大桌子的头部附近仍然有空位，他们就走到了那里。费尔布拉泽先生坐在对面，离霍利先生不远。所有的医务人员都在那里；塞西格先生坐在椅子上，蒂普顿的布鲁克先生坐在他的右手边。

Lydgate noticed a peculiar interchange of glances when he and Bulstrode took their seats.
当利德盖特和布尔斯特罗德就座时，他注意到了一种奇怪的眼神交流。

After the business had been fully opened by the chairman, who pointed out the advantages of purchasing by subscription a piece of ground large enough to be ultimately used as a general cemetery, Mr. Bulstrode, whose rather high-pitched but subdued and fluent voice the town was used to at meetings of this sort, rose and asked leave to deliver his opinion. Lydgate could see again the peculiar interchange of glances before Mr. Hawley started up, and said in his firm resonant voice, ‘Mr. Chairman, I request that before any one delivers his opinion on this point I may be permitted to speak on a question of public feeling, which not only by myself, but by many gentlemen present, is regarded as preliminary.’
业务全面开业后，董事长指出通过认购方式购买一块足够大的土地最终用作一般墓地的好处，布尔斯特罗德先生的声音相当高亢，但柔和而流畅，镇上已经习惯了这种会议，他起身请假发表自己的意见。在霍利先生站起来之前，利德盖特再次看到了这种奇特的眼神交流，他用坚定而洪亮的声音说道：“霍利先生。”主席，我请求在任何人就这一点发表意见之前，允许我就公众感受的问题发言，不仅我自己，而且在场的许多先生都认为这是初步的。

Mr. Hawley’s mode of speech, even when public decorum repressed his ‘awful language,’ was formidable in its curtness and self-possession. Mr. Thesiger sanctioned the request, Mr. Bulstrode sat down, and Mr. Hawley continued.
霍利先生的讲话方式，即使在公共礼仪压制了他的“可怕的语言”时，其简洁和镇定仍然令人敬畏。塞西格先生批准了这个请求，布尔斯特罗德先生坐下来，霍利先生继续说道。

‘In what I have to say, Mr. Chairman, I am not speaking simply on my own behalf: I am speaking with the concurrence and at the express request of no fewer than eight of my fellow-townsmen, who are immediately around us. It is our united sentiment that Mr. Bulstrode should be called upon—and I do now call upon him— to resign public positions which he holds not simply as a tax-payer, but as a gentleman among gentlemen. There are practices and there are acts which, owing to circumstances, the law cannot visit, though they may be worse than many things which are legally punishable. Honest men and gentlemen, if they don’t want the company of people who perpetrate such acts, have got to defend themselves as they best can, and that is what I and the friends whom I may call my clients in this affair are determined to do. I don’t say that Mr. Bulstrode has been guilty of shameful acts, but I call upon him either publicly to deny and confute the scandalous statements made against him by a man now dead, and who died in his house—the statement that he was for many years engaged in nefarious practices, and that he won his fortune by dishonest procedures—or else to withdraw from positions which could only have been allowed him as a gentleman among gentlemen.’
“主席先生，我要说的是，我不仅仅代表我自己发言：我的发言得到了至少八名就在我们周围的同胞的同意和明确要求。我们一致认为，布尔斯特罗德先生应该被呼吁——我现在呼吁他——辞去他所担任的公职，他不仅作为纳税人，而且作为绅士中的绅士。由于具体情况，有些做法和行为是法律无法制裁的，尽管它们可能比许多应受到法律惩罚的事情更糟糕。诚实的男人和先生们，如果他们不想与犯下这种行为的人为伍，就必​​须尽最大努力保护自己，这就是我和我在这件事上可能称之为我的客户的朋友们决心要做的事情。做。我并不是说布尔斯特罗德先生犯下了可耻的行为，但我呼吁他公开否认并驳斥一名现已去世且死在他家中的人对他做出的诽谤性言论——他的言论是多年来他一直从事邪恶的活动，他通过不诚实的程序赢得了财富，或者退出了只有作为绅士中的绅士才能被允许的职位。

All eyes in the room were turned on Mr. Bulstrode, who, since the first mention of his name, had been going through a crisis of feeling almost too violent for his delicate frame to support. Lydgate, who himself was undergoing a shock as from the terrible practical interpretation of some faint augury, felt, nevertheless, that his own movement of resentful hatred was checked by that instinct of the Healer which thinks first of bringing rescue or relief to the sufferer, when he looked at the shrunken misery of Bulstrode’s livid face.
房间里所有的目光都集中在布尔斯特罗德先生身上，自从第一次提到他的名字以来，他一直在经历一场感觉过于暴力的危机，他娇弱的身躯几乎无法支撑。利德盖特本人也因某种微弱的预兆的可怕的实际解释而感到震惊，尽管如此，他还是感到自己的怨恨行动受到了治疗者的本能的抑制，这种本能首先想到的是为受难者带来救援或救济，当他看到布尔斯特罗德那张铁青的脸因痛苦而萎缩时。

The quick vision that his life was after all a failure, that he was a dishonored man, and must quail before the glance of those towards whom he had habitually assumed the attitude of a reprover—that God had disowned him before men and left him unscreened to the triumphant scorn of those who were glad to have their hatred justified—the sense of utter futility in that equivocation with his conscience in dealing with the life of his accomplice, an equivocation which now turned venomously upon him with the full-grown fang of a discovered lie:— all this rushed through him like the agony of terror which fails to kill, and leaves the ears still open to the returning wave of execration. The sudden sense of exposure after the re-established sense of safety came—not to the coarse organization of a criminal but to— the susceptible nerve of a man whose intensest being lay in such mastery and predominance as the conditions of his life had shaped for him.
他迅速意识到自己的人生终究是失败的，他是一个不光彩的人，在那些他习惯性采取责备态度的人的目光面前他一定会感到畏缩——上帝在人们面前不承认他，并没有对他进行任何屏蔽。那些乐于证明自己的仇恨是正当的人的胜利的蔑视——他在对待同谋的生活时，在良心上模棱两可，感到完全徒劳无益，这种模棱两可的态度现在用成熟的獠牙恶毒地攻击他。一个被发现的谎言：——所有这一切都像无法杀死人的恐惧的痛苦一样冲过他，让他的耳朵仍然张开着，聆听着咒骂的浪潮。安全感重新建立后，突然的暴露感降临——不是犯罪分子的粗暴组织，而是——一个人的敏感神经，他的最强烈的感觉在于他的生活条件所塑造的掌控和主导地位。他。

But in that intense being lay the strength of reaction. Through all his bodily infirmity there ran a tenacious nerve of ambitious self-preserving will, which had continually leaped out like a flame, scattering all doctrinal fears, and which, even while he sat an object of compassion for the merciful, was beginning to stir and glow under his ashy paleness. Before the last words were out of Mr. Hawley’s mouth, Bulstrode felt that he should answer, and that his answer would be a retort. He dared not get up and say, ‘I am not guilty, the whole story is false’—even if he had dared this, it would have seemed to him, under his present keen sense of betrayal, as vain as to pull, for covering to his nakedness, a frail rag which would rend at every little strain.
但在那强烈的存在中蕴藏着反应的力量。在他身体的所有虚弱之中，有一种顽强的神经，一种雄心勃勃的自我保护意志，它像火焰一样不断地跳出来，驱散了所有教义上的恐惧，即使当他坐在一个对仁慈者的同情对象时，它也开始骚动起来。并在他灰白的苍白下焕发光芒。在霍利先生说完最后一句话之前，布尔斯特罗德觉得他应该回答，而他的回答将是一个反驳。他不敢站起来说：“我没有罪，整个故事都是假的”——即使他敢这么说，在他目前强烈的背叛感下，他也会觉得徒劳无功。覆盖在他赤身裸体上的，是一块脆弱的破布，稍稍用力就会撕裂。

For a few moments there was total silence, while every man in the room was looking at Bulstrode. He sat perfectly still, leaning hard against the back of his chair; he could not venture to rise, and when he began to speak he pressed his hands upon the seat on each side of him. But his voice was perfectly audible, though hoarser than usual, and his words were distinctly pronounced, though he paused between sentence as if short of breath. He said, turning first toward Mr. Thesiger, and then looking at Mr. Hawley—
有那么一会儿，房间里一片寂静，每个人都看着布尔斯特罗德。他一动不动地坐着，紧紧地靠在椅背上。他不敢站起来，当他开始说话时，他把手按在两侧的座位上。但他的声音完全听得清，尽管比平常更加沙哑，他的话语也清晰可见，尽管他在句子之间停了下来，仿佛呼吸急促。他说，首先转向塞西格先生，然后看着霍利先生——

‘I protest before you, sir, as a Christian minister, against the sanction of proceedings towards me which are dictated by virulent hatred. Those who are hostile to me are glad to believe any libel uttered by a loose tongue against me. And their consciences become strict against me. Say that the evil-speaking of which I am to be made the victim accuses me of malpractices—‘ here Bulstrode’s voice rose and took on a more biting accent, till it seemed a low cry— ‘who shall be my accuser? Not men whose own lives are unchristian, nay, scandalous—not men who themselves use low instruments to carry out their ends—whose profession is a tissue of chicanery— who have been spending their income on their own sensual enjoyments, while I have been devoting mine to advance the best objects with regard to this life and the next.’
“先生，作为一名基督教牧师，我向您提出抗议，反对对我的诉讼程序的批准，这些诉讼程序是由恶毒的仇恨决定的。凡是对我怀有敌意的人，都乐于相信任何无心之言对我的诽谤。他们的良心对我变得严厉。说我将成为受害者的恶言恶语指控我有渎职行为——”布尔斯特罗德的声音提高了，口音更加尖刻，直到听起来像低沉的呼喊——“谁来指控我？不是那些自己的生活是不基督教的，不，是可耻的人——不是那些自己使用低级工具来实现自己的目的的人——他们的职业是欺骗的组织——他们一直把收入花在自己的感官享受上，而我却一直致力于我的目标是推进今生和来世最好的目标。

After the word chicanery there was a growing noise, half of murmurs and half of hisses, while four persons started up at once—Mr. Hawley, Mr. Toller, Mr. Chichely, and Mr. Hackbutt; but Mr. Hawley’s outburst was instantaneous, and left the others behind in silence.
“诡计”一词之后，喧闹声越来越大，一半是窃窃私语，一半是嘶嘶声，四个人立刻站起来——先生。霍利、托勒先生、奇切利先生和哈克布特先生；但霍利先生的爆发是瞬间的，让其他人保持沉默。

‘If you mean me, sir, I call you and every one else to the inspection of my professional life. As to Christian or unchristian, I repudiate your canting palavering Christianity; and as to the way in which I spend my income, it is not my principle to maintain thieves and cheat offspring of their due inheritance in order to support religion and set myself up as a saintly Killjoy. I affect no niceness of conscience—I have not found any nice standards necessary yet to measure your actions by, sir. And I again call upon you to enter into satisfactory explanations concerning the scandals against you, or else to withdraw from posts in which we at any rate decline you as a colleague. I say, sir, we decline to co-operate with a man whose character is not cleared from infamous lights cast upon it, not only by reports but by recent actions.’
“如果您指的是我，先生，我请您和其他人来检查我的职业生涯。至于基督教或非基督教，我否认你那装腔作势、喋喋不休的基督教；至于我的收入支出方式，我的原则不是为了支持宗教并把自己塑造成一个扫兴的圣徒而养活小偷并骗取子孙应得的遗产。我无意影响良心——我还没有找到任何必要的良好标准来衡量你的行为，先生。我再次呼吁你对针对你的丑闻做出令人满意的解释，或者从我们无论如何拒绝你作为同事的职位中退出。我想说的是，先生，我们拒绝与这样一个人合作，他的品格不仅通过报道，而且通过最近的行动，都没有从臭名昭著的灯光中洗清。

‘Allow me, Mr. Hawley,’ said the chairman; and Mr. Hawley, still fuming, bowed half impatiently, and sat down with his hands thrust deep in his pockets.
“请允许我，霍利先生，”主席说道。霍利先生仍然火冒三丈，不耐烦地鞠了一躬，然后坐下来，双手深深地插在口袋里。

‘Mr. Bulstrode, it is not desirable, I think, to prolong the present discussion,’ said Mr. Thesiger, turning to the pallid trembling man; ‘I must so far concur with what has fallen from Mr. Hawley in expression of a general feeling, as to think it due to your Christian profession that you should clear yourself, if possible, from unhappy aspersions. I for my part should be willing to give you full opportunity and hearing. But I must say that your present attitude is painfully inconsistent with those principles which you have sought to identify yourself with, and for the honor of which I am bound to care. I recommend you at present, as your clergyman, and one who hopes for your reinstatement in respect, to quit the room, and avoid further hindrance to business.’
'先生。 “布尔斯特罗德先生，我认为，延长目前的讨论是不可取的。”塞西格先生转向那个苍白、浑身发抖的人说道。 “到目前为止，我必须同意霍利先生表达的普遍感受，因为我认为，由于你的基督教信仰，如果可能的话，你应该清除自己不愉快的诽谤。就我而言，我应该愿意给你充分的机会和倾听。但我必须说，你目前的态度与你试图认同的那些原则令人痛苦地不一致，而我也必须关心这些原则。我现在建议你，作为你的牧师，以及希望你恢复尊重的人，离开房间，避免进一步阻碍生意。

Bulstrode, after a moment’s hesitation, took his hat from the floor and slowly rose, but he grasped the corner of the chair so totteringly that Lydgate felt sure there was not strength enough in him to walk away without support. What could he do? He could not see a man sink close to him for want of help. He rose and gave his arm to Bulstrode, and in that way led him out of the room; yet this act, which might have been one of gentle duty and pure compassion, was at this moment unspeakably bitter to him. It seemed as if he were putting his sign-manual to that association of himself with Bulstrode, of which he now saw the full meaning as it must have presented itself to other minds. He now felt the conviction that this man who was leaning tremblingly on his arm, had given him the thousand pounds as a bribe, and that somehow the treatment of Raffles had been tampered with from an evil motive. The inferences were closely linked enough; the town knew of the loan, believed it to be a bribe, and believed that he took it as a bribe.
布尔斯特罗德犹豫了一会儿，从地板上拿起帽子，慢慢站起来，但他摇摇晃晃地抓住了椅子的一角，利德盖特确信他没有足够的力量在没有搀扶的情况下走开。他能做什么呢？他看不到有人因为需要帮助而沉没在他身边。他站起身来，将手臂伸给布尔斯特罗德，然后把他带出了房间。然而，这一举动本来可能是一种温柔的责任和纯粹的同情心，此时此刻却让他感到难以言表的痛苦。似乎他正在把他的符号手册放在他自己与布尔斯特罗德的联系上，他现在看到了这种联系的全部含义，因为它一定已经呈现给其他人了。他现在确信，这个颤抖着靠在他手臂上的男人已经给了他一千英镑作为贿赂，而莱佛士的待遇不知何故是出于邪恶的动机而被篡改的。这些推论足够紧密地联系在一起；镇上的人知道这笔贷款，认为这是贿赂，并相信他将其视为贿赂。

Poor Lydgate, his mind struggling under the terrible clutch of this revelation, was all the while morally forced to take Mr. Bulstrode to the Bank, send a man off for his carriage, and wait to accompany him home.
可怜的利德盖特，他的思想在这一启示的可怕控制下挣扎，同时在道义上被迫将布尔斯特罗德先生带到银行，派一个人去取他的马车，然后等待送他回家。

Meanwhile the business of the meeting was despatched, and fringed off into eager discussion among various groups concerning this affair of Bulstrode—and Lydgate.
与此同时，会议的事务已经处理完毕，各个团体就布尔斯特罗德和利德盖特的事件进行了热烈的讨论。

Mr. Brooke, who had before heard only imperfect hints of it, and was very uneasy that he had ‘gone a little too far’ in countenancing Bulstrode, now got himself fully informed, and felt some benevolent sadness in talking to Mr. Farebrother about the ugly light in which Lydgate had come to be regarded. Mr. Farebrother was going to walk back to Lowick.
布鲁克先生之前只听到了不完全的暗示，并为自己在支持布尔斯特罗德方面“有点过分”而感到非常不安，现在他自己完全了解了情况，并在与费尔布拉泽先生谈论此事时感到了一些善意的悲伤。人们对利德盖特的看法是丑陋的。费勒布拉泽先生打算步行回洛威克。

‘Step into my carriage,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘I am going round to see Mrs. Casaubon. She was to come back from Yorkshire last night. She will like to see me, you know.’
“走进我的马车，”布鲁克先生说。 “我要去见卡苏邦夫人。她昨晚将从约克郡回来。你知道，她会喜欢见我的。

So they drove along, Mr. Brooke chatting with good-natured hope that there had not really been anything black in Lydgate’s behavior— a young fellow whom he had seen to be quite above the common mark, when he brought a letter from his uncle Sir Godwin. Mr. Farebrother said little: he was deeply mournful: with a keen perception of human weakness, he could not be confident that under the pressure of humiliating needs Lydgate had not fallen below himself.
于是他们就开车走了，布鲁克先生满怀善意地聊着，希望利德盖特的行为并没有什么不好的地方——当他带来一封来自他叔叔爵士的信时，他认为利德盖特是一个远超常人的年轻人。戈德温.费雷布拉泽先生很少说话：他深感悲痛：他对人性的弱点有着敏锐的洞察力，他无法相信在屈辱性需求的压力下利德盖特没有堕落到自己以下。

When the carriage drove up to the gate of the Manor, Dorothea was out on the gravel, and came to greet them.
当马车驶到庄园门口时，多萝西娅正站在碎石路上，过来迎接他们。

‘Well, my dear,’ said Mr. Brooke, ‘we have just come from a meeting— a sanitary meeting, you know.’
“好吧，亲爱的，”布鲁克先生说，“我们刚刚开完会——一场卫生会议，你知道。”

‘Was Mr. Lydgate there?’ said Dorothea, who looked full of health and animation, and stood with her head bare under the gleaming April lights. ‘I want to see him and have a great consultation with him about the Hospital. I have engaged with Mr. Bulstrode to do so.’
“利德盖特先生在吗？”多萝西娅说道，她看上去精神抖擞，光着头站在四月闪烁的灯光下。 “我想见见他，并就医院的问题与他进行深入的协商。我已经与布尔斯特罗德先生合作来这样做。

‘Oh, my dear,’ said Mr. Brooke, ‘we have been hearing bad news— bad news, you know.’
“哦，亲爱的，”布鲁克先生说，“我们一直听到坏消息——坏消息，你知道。”

They walked through the garden towards the churchyard gate, Mr. Farebrother wanting to go on to the parsonage; and Dorothea heard the whole sad story.
他们穿过花园朝墓地大门走去，费勒布拉泽先生想继续前往牧师住宅。多萝西娅听到了整个悲伤的故事。

She listened with deep interest, and begged to hear twice over the facts and impressions concerning Lydgate. After a short silence, pausing at the churchyard gate, and addressing Mr. Farebrother, she said energetically—
她饶有兴趣地听着，并请求再听一遍有关利德盖特的事实和印象。短暂的沉默之后，她在墓地门口停了下来，对费雷布拉泽先生说道，她精力充沛地说：

‘You don’t believe that Mr. Lydgate is guilty of anything base? I will not believe it. Let us find out the truth and clear him!’
“你不相信利德盖特先生犯了什么卑鄙的罪吗？”我不会相信。让我们查明真相并澄清他！

BOOK VIII.
第八卷。


SUNSET AND SUNRISE.
日落和日出。


Chapter LXXII
第七十二章

Full souls are double mirrors, making still
完整的灵魂是双镜子，使静止

An endless vista of fair things before,
眼前美好事物的无尽远景，

Repeating things behind.
重复后面的事情。

Dorothea’s impetuous generosity, which would have leaped at once to the vindication of Lydgate from the suspicion of having accepted money as a bribe, underwent a melancholy check when she came to consider all the circumstances of the case by the light of Mr. Farebrother’s experience.
多萝西娅的冲动的慷慨本来可以立即证明利德盖特免受收受金钱贿赂的嫌疑，但当她根据费勒布拉泽先生的经历考虑此案的所有情况时，她感到忧郁。

‘It is a delicate matter to touch,’ he said. ‘How can we begin to inquire into it? It must be either publicly by setting the magistrate and coroner to work, or privately by questioning Lydgate. As to the first proceeding there is no solid ground to go upon, else Hawley would have adopted it; and as to opening the subject with Lydgate, I confess I should shrink from it. He would probably take it as a deadly insult. I have more than once experienced the difficulty of speaking to him on personal matters. And—one should know the truth about his conduct beforehand, to feel very confident of a good result.’
“这是一件很难触摸的事情，”他说。 ‘我们怎样才能开始探究它呢？它必须要么通过让治安法官和验尸官工作来公开进行，要么通过询问利德盖特来私下进行。至于第一个程序，没有坚实的基础可以继续，否则霍利就会采用它。至于与利德盖特开始这个话题，我承认我应该回避它。他可能会认为这是一种致命的侮辱。我不止一次经历过与他谈论个人事务的困难。而且——人们应该事先了解自己行为的真相，才能对好结果充满信心。”

‘I feel convinced that his conduct has not been guilty: I believe that people are almost always better than their neighbors think they are,’ said Dorothea. Some of her intensest experience in the last two years had set her mind strongly in opposition to any unfavorable construction of others; and for the first time she felt rather discontented with Mr. Farebrother. She disliked this cautious weighing of consequences, instead of an ardent faith in efforts of justice and mercy, which would conquer by their emotional force. Two days afterwards, he was dining at the Manor with her uncle and the Chettams, and when the dessert was standing uneaten, the servants were out of the room, and Mr. Brooke was nodding in a nap, she returned to the subject with renewed vivacity.
“我确信他的行为没有罪过：我相信人们几乎总是比邻居想象的要好，”多萝西娅说。过去两年里她经历过的一些最强烈的经历使她强烈反对对他人做出任何不利的解释。她第一次对费雷布拉泽先生感到相当不满。她不喜欢这种对后果的谨慎权衡，而不是对正义和仁慈的努力的热忱信念，这将通过他们的情感力量来征服。两天后，他和她的叔叔以及切塔姆一家在庄园里吃饭，当甜点还没吃完，仆人们都走出房间时，布鲁克先生正在打盹，她又回到了这个话题。活泼。

‘Mr. Lydgate would understand that if his friends hear a calumny about him their first wish must be to justify him. What do we live for, if it is not to make life less difficult to each other? I cannot be indifferent to the troubles of a man who advised me in MY trouble, and attended me in my illness.’
'先生。利德盖特会明白，如果他的朋友听到对他的诽谤，他们的第一愿望一定是为他辩护。如果不是为了让彼此的生活不再那么困难，我们活着到底是为了什么？我不能对一个在我遇到困难时为我提供建议、在我生病时照顾我的人的烦恼漠不关心。

Dorothea’s tone and manner were not more energetic than they had been when she was at the head of her uncle’s table nearly three years before, and her experience since had given her more right to express a decided opinion. But Sir James Chettam was no longer the diffident and acquiescent suitor: he was the anxious brother-in-law, with a devout admiration for his sister, but with a constant alarm lest she should fall under some new illusion almost as bad as marrying Casaubon. He smiled much less; when he said ‘Exactly’ it was more often an introduction to a dissentient opinion than in those submissive bachelor days; and Dorothea found to her surprise that she had to resolve not to be afraid of him—all the more because he was really her best friend. He disagreed with her now.
多萝西娅的语气和态度并不比三年前她在叔叔餐桌上时更有活力，而她此后的经历使她更有权利表达自己的明确意见。但詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士不再是那个胆怯、默许的追求者：他是焦虑的妹夫，对他的妹妹怀有虔诚的钦佩，但又不断地警惕，以免她陷入某种新的幻想，几乎就像嫁给卡索邦一样糟糕。他的笑容少了很多。当他说“完全正确”时，与那些顺从的单身汉时代相比，更多的是引入不同意见。多萝西娅惊讶地发现，她必须下定决心不要害怕他——更重要的是，因为他确实是她最好的朋友。他现在不同意她的观点了。

‘But, Dorothea,’ he said, remonstrantly, ‘you can’t undertake to manage a man’s life for him in that way. Lydgate must know— at least he will soon come to know how he stands. If he can clear himself, he will. He must act for himself.’
“但是，多萝西娅，”他抗议道，“你不能用这种方式来管理一个人的生活。”利德盖特一定知道——至少他很快就会知道自己的处境。如果他能澄清自己，他就会的。他必须为自己行动。

‘I think his friends must wait till they find an opportunity,’ added Mr. Farebrother. ‘It is possible—I have often felt so much weakness in myself that I can conceive even a man of honorable disposition, such as I have always believed Lydgate to be, succumbing to such a temptation as that of accepting money which was offered more or less indirectly as a bribe to insure his silence about scandalous facts long gone by. I say, I can conceive this, if he were under the pressure of hard circumstances—if he had been harassed as I feel sure Lydgate has been. I would not believe anything worse of him except under stringent proof. But there is the terrible Nemesis following on some errors, that it is always possible for those who like it to interpret them into a crime: there is no proof in favor of the man outside his own consciousness and assertion.’
“我认为他的朋友们必须等待，直到找到机会，”费雷布拉泽先生补充道。 “有可能——我经常感到自己如此软弱，以至于我可以想象，即使是一个性格正直的人，比如我一直相信的利德盖特，也会屈服于这样的诱惑，比如接受更多的金钱或更多的金钱。”不那么间接地作为贿赂，以确保他对早已过去的丑闻事实保持沉默。我说，如果他处于艰难环境的压力下，如果他像我确信利德盖特那样受到骚扰，我可以想象这一点。除非有严格的证据，否则我不会相信他有任何更糟糕的事情。但可怕的复仇女神追随着一些错误，那些喜欢它的人总是有可能将它们解释为犯罪：除了他自己的意识和主张之外，没有任何证据支持这个人。

‘Oh, how cruel!’ said Dorothea, clasping her hands. ‘And would you not like to be the one person who believed in that man’s innocence, if the rest of the world belied him? Besides, there is a man’s character beforehand to speak for him.’
“哦，多么残忍啊！”多萝西娅双手合十地说。 “如果世界上其他人都相信这个人是无辜的，你难道不想成为唯一一个相信他是清白的人吗？”再说了，先有一个人的品格可以为他说话。

‘But, my dear Mrs. Casaubon,’ said Mr. Farebrother, smiling gently at her ardor, ‘character is not cut in marble—it is not something solid and unalterable. It is something living and changing, and may become diseased as our bodies do.’
“但是，我亲爱的卡苏朋夫人，”法尔布拉泽先生对她的热情温和地微笑着说道，“性格不是大理石刻出来的——它不是坚固的、不可改变的东西。它是一种活生生、不断变化的东西，可能会像我们的身体一样患病。

‘Then it may be rescued and healed,’ said Dorothea ‘I should not be afraid of asking Mr. Lydgate to tell me the truth, that I might help him. Why should I be afraid? Now that I am not to have the land, James, I might do as Mr. Bulstrode proposed, and take his place in providing for the Hospital; and I have to consult Mr. Lydgate, to know thoroughly what are the prospects of doing good by keeping up the present plans. There is the best opportunity in the world for me to ask for his confidence; and he would be able to tell me things which might make all the circumstances clear. Then we would all stand by him and bring him out of his trouble. People glorify all sorts of bravery except the bravery they might show on behalf of their nearest neighbors.’ Dorothea’s eyes had a moist brightness in them, and the changed tones of her voice roused her uncle, who began to listen.
“这样它就可以被拯救和治愈，”多萝西娅说，“我不应该害怕请利德盖特先生告诉我真相，这样我就可以帮助他。我为什么要害怕？既然我不再拥有这块土地，詹姆斯，我可以按照布尔斯特罗德先生的建议去做，并代替他为医院提供资金；我必须咨询利德盖特先生，彻底了解坚持目前的计划会有什么好处。这是我请求他信任的最好机会；他会告诉我一些事情，让所有的情况都清楚。然后我们都会支持他并帮助他摆脱困境。人们颂扬各种各样的勇敢，除了他们可能代表最近的邻居表现出的勇敢。”多萝西娅的眼睛里闪烁着湿润的光芒，她改变的语调惊醒了她的叔叔，他开始听。

‘It is true that a woman may venture on some efforts of sympathy which would hardly succeed if we men undertook them,’ said Mr. Farebrother, almost converted by Dorothea’s ardor.
“确实，女人可能会冒险做出一些同情的努力，但如果我们男人去做，就很难成功，”费雷布拉泽先生说，他几乎被多萝西娅的热情所改变。

‘Surely, a woman is bound to be cautious and listen to those who know the world better than she does.’ said Sir James, with his little frown. ‘Whatever you do in the end, Dorothea, you should really keep back at present, and not volunteer any meddling with this Bulstrode business. We don’t know yet what may turn up. You must agree with me?’ he ended, looking at Mr. Farebrother.
“当然，女人一定要谨慎，要倾听那些比她更了解世界的人的意见。”詹姆斯爵士皱着眉头说道。 “无论你最后做什么，多萝西娅，你现在真的应该退缩，不要主动插手布尔斯特罗德的生意。我们还不知道会发生什么。 “你一定同意我的观点吧？”他最后说道，看着费雷布拉泽先生。

‘I do think it would be better to wait,’ said the latter.
“我确实认为等待会更好，”后者说。

‘Yes, yes, my dear,’ said Mr. Brooke, not quite knowing at what point the discussion had arrived, but coming up to it with a contribution which was generally appropriate. ‘It is easy to go too far, you know. You must not let your ideas run away with you. And as to being in a hurry to put money into schemes—it won’t do, you know. Garth has drawn me in uncommonly with repairs, draining, that sort of thing: I’m uncommonly out of pocket with one thing or another. I must pull up. As for you, Chettam, you are spending a fortune on those oak fences round your demesne.’
“是的，是的，亲爱的，”布鲁克先生说，他不太知道讨论到了什么程度，但提出了一个总体上适当的贡献。 ‘你知道，很容易走得太远。你一定不能让你的想法溜走。至于急于将钱投入到计划中——你知道，这是行不通的。加斯以修理、排水之类的事情吸引了我，这对我来说是罕见的：我在这或那件事上花费了很少的钱。我必须拉起来。至于你，切塔姆，你在你领地周围的橡木栅栏上花了一大笔钱。

Dorothea, submitting uneasily to this discouragement, went with Celia into the library, which was her usual drawing-room.
多萝西娅不安地屈服于这种沮丧，和西莉亚一起走进图书馆，那是她常去的客厅。

‘Now, Dodo, do listen to what James says,’ said Celia, ‘else you will be getting into a scrape. You always did, and you always will, when you set about doing as you please. And I think it is a mercy now after all that you have got James to think for you. He lets you have your plans, only he hinders you from being taken in. And that is the good of having a brother instead of a husband. A husband would not let you have your plans.’
“现在，多多，一定要听詹姆斯说的话，”西莉亚说，“否则你就会陷入困境。”当你开始做你想做的事时，你总是这样做，而且你也永远会这样做。我认为现在这是一种仁慈，毕竟你让詹姆斯为你着想。他让你有你的计划，只是他阻止你被接纳。这就是有一个兄弟而不是一个丈夫的好处。丈夫不会让你有你的计划。

‘As if I wanted a husband!’ said Dorothea. ‘I only want not to have my feelings checked at every turn.’ Mrs. Casaubon was still undisciplined enough to burst into angry tears.
“好像我想要一个丈夫一样！”多萝西娅说。 “我只是不想每次都检查我的感情。”卡苏邦夫人仍然不守纪律，气得哭了起来。

‘Now, really, Dodo,’ said Celia, with rather a deeper guttural than usual, ‘you ARE contradictory: first one thing and then another. You used to submit to Mr. Casaubon quite shamefully: I think you would have given up ever coming to see me if he had asked you.’
“现在，真的，多多，”西莉亚说，声音比平常更深，“你很矛盾：先是一件事，然后又是另一件事。你曾经非常羞耻地服从卡苏邦先生：我想如果他邀请你的话，你就不会再来看我了。

‘Of course I submitted to him, because it was my duty; it was my feeling for him,’ said Dorothea, looking through the prism of her tears.
“我当然服从他，因为这是我的职责； “这是我对他的感觉。”多萝西娅透过泪水的棱镜说道。

‘Then why can’t you think it your duty to submit a little to what James wishes?’ said Celia, with a sense of stringency in her argument. ‘Because he only wishes what is for your own good. And, of course, men know best about everything, except what women know better.’ Dorothea laughed and forgot her tears.
“那你为什么不能认为自己有责任稍微服从一下詹姆斯的意愿呢？”西莉亚说道，她的论点带着一种严谨的感觉。 ‘因为他只希望你好。当然，男人对一切事情都最了解，除了女人更了解的事情。”多萝西娅笑了，忘记了眼泪。

‘Well, I mean about babies and those things,’ explained Celia. ‘I should not give up to James when I knew he was wrong, as you used to do to Mr. Casaubon.’
“嗯，我指的是婴儿和那些东西，”西莉亚解释道。 “当我知道詹姆斯错了时，我不应该放弃他，就像你过去对卡苏邦先生所做的那样。”

CHAPTER LXXIII
第LXXIII章

Pity the laden one; this wandering woe
可怜那负重的人；这流浪的祸患

May visit you and me.
可以拜访你和我。

When Lydgate had allayed Mrs. Bulstrode’s anxiety by telling her that her husband had been seized with faintness at the meeting, but that he trusted soon to see him better and would call again the next day, unless she-sent for him earlier, he went directly home, got on his horse, and rode three miles out of the town for the sake of being out of reach.
当利德盖特告诉布尔斯特罗德夫人，她的丈夫在会议上感到头晕，但他相信很快就会看到他的情况好转，并且会在第二天再次打电话时，除非她早点派人去叫他，他就去了，以此缓解了布尔斯特罗德夫人的焦虑。直接回家，上马，骑了三里出城，为的是遥不可及。

He felt himself becoming violent and unreasonable as if raging under the pain of stings: he was ready to curse the day on which he had come to Middlemarch. Everything that bad happened to him there seemed a mere preparation for this hateful fatality, which had come as a blight on his honorable ambition, and must make even people who had only vulgar standards regard his reputation as irrevocably damaged. In such moments a man can hardly escape being unloving. Lydgate thought of himself as the sufferer, and of others as the agents who had injured his lot. He had meant everything to turn out differently; and others had thrust themselves into his life and thwarted his purposes. His marriage seemed an unmitigated calamity; and he was afraid of going to Rosamond before he had vented himself in this solitary rage, lest the mere sight of her should exasperate him and make him behave unwarrantably. There are episodes in most men’s lives in which their highest qualities can only cast a deterring shadow over the objects that fill their inward vision: Lydgate’s tenderheartedness was present just then only as a dread lest he should offend against it, not as an emotion that swayed him to tenderness. For he was very miserable. Only those who know the supremacy of the intellectual life— the life which has a seed of ennobling thought and purpose within it— can understand the grief of one who falls from that serene activity into the absorbing soul-wasting struggle with worldly annoyances.
他感觉自己变得暴力和不可理喻，仿佛在被蜇伤的痛苦下勃然大怒：他准备诅咒他来到米德尔马契的那一天。发生在他身上的一切不幸似乎只是为这一可恨的命运做准备，这对他光荣的野心来说是一个打击，而且一定会让那些只有庸俗标准的人认为他的声誉受到了不可挽回的损害。在这种时刻，男人很难逃脱不被爱的感觉。利德盖特认为自己是受害者，而其他人则认为是伤害了他命运的人。他本想让一切事情都有不同的结果。其他人闯入他的生活并阻碍他的目的。他的婚姻似乎是一场彻头彻尾的灾难。他害怕在发泄出这种孤独的愤怒之前去找罗莎蒙德，以免只要看到她就会激怒他并做出无理的行为。在大多数人的生活中，有时他们的最高品质只能在他们内心视野中的事物上投下令人畏惧的阴影：利德盖特的温柔只是因为担心他会冒犯它而出现，而不是作为一种摇摆不定的情感。他对温柔。因为他的处境非常悲惨。只有那些了解理智生活的至高无上的人——这种生活中蕴含着高尚思想和目标的种子——才能理解一个人从平静的活动中跌落到与世俗烦恼的全神贯注、浪费灵魂的斗争中的悲伤。

How was he to live on without vindicating himself among people who suspected him of baseness? How could he go silently away from Middlemarch as if he were retreating before a just condemnation? And yet how was he to set about vindicating himself?
如果不在那些怀疑他卑鄙的人中间证明自己的清白，他该如何生活呢？他怎么能像在正义的谴责面前撤退一样默默地离开米德尔马契呢？但他该如何为自己辩护呢？

For that scene at the meeting, which he had just witnessed, although it had told him no particulars, had been enough to make his own situation thoroughly clear to him. Bulstrode had been in dread of scandalous disclosures on the part of Raffles. Lydgate could now construct all the probabilities of the case. ‘He was afraid of some betrayal in my hearing: all he wanted was to bind me to him by a strong obligation: that was why he passed on a sudden from hardness to liberality. And he may have tampered with the patient—he may have disobeyed my orders. I fear he did. But whether he did or not, the world believes that he somehow or other poisoned the man and that I winked at the crime, if I didn’t help in it. And yet—and yet he may not be guilty of the last offence; and it is just possible that the change towards me may have been a genuine relenting—the effect of second thoughts such as he alleged. What we call the ‘just possible’ is sometimes true and the thing we find it easier to believe is grossly false. In his last dealings with this man Bulstrode may have kept his hands pure, in spite of my suspicion to the contrary.’
因为刚才他亲眼所见的会议上的那一幕，虽然没有告诉他任何细节，但已经足以让他彻底明白自己的处境了。布尔斯特罗德一直担心莱佛士会披露丑闻。利德盖特现在可以构建该案件的所有概率。 “他担心我会听到一些背叛：他想要的只是用一种强烈的义务将我束缚在他身边：这就是为什么他突然从严厉转向慷慨。他可能对病​​人做了手脚——他可能违反了我的命令。我担心他确实这么做了。但无论他是否这样做，全世界都相信他以某种方式毒害了这个人，而如果我没有提供帮助，我就会对这一犯罪行为眨眼。然而——然而他可能不会犯下最后的罪行；对我的改变很可能是一种真正的软化——正如他所说的那样，是重新考虑的结果。我们所谓的“完全可能”有时是正确的，而我们发现更容易相信的事情却是完全错误的。在布尔斯特罗德最后一次与这个人打交道时，他的双手可能保持纯洁，尽管我怀疑事实并非如此。

There was a benumbing cruelty in his position. Even if he renounced every other consideration than that of justifying himself— if he met shrugs, cold glances, and avoidance as an accusation, and made a public statement of all the facts as he knew them, who would be convinced? It would be playing the part of a fool to offer his own testimony on behalf of himself, and say, ‘I did not take the money as a bribe.’ The circumstances would always be stronger than his assertion. And besides, to come forward and tell everything about himself must include declarations about Bulstrode which would darken the suspicions of others against him. He must tell that he had not known of Raffles’s existence when he first mentioned his pressing need of money to Bulstrode, and that he took the money innocently as a result of that communication, not knowing that a new motive for the loan might have arisen on his being called in to this man. And after all, the suspicion of Bulstrode’s motives might be unjust.
他的立场充满了令人麻木的残忍。就算他放弃了除了为自己辩护之外的一切考虑——如果他遭到耸肩、冷眼、回避作为指控，并把自己所知道的全部事实公开陈述出来，谁会相信呢？如果他以自己的名义提供自己的证词，并说：“我没有拿这些钱作为贿赂。”那就等于是在装傻。情况总是比他的主张更强有力。此外，站出来讲述自己的一切必须包括有关布尔斯特罗德的声明，这会加深其他人对他的怀疑。他必须说，当他第一次向布尔斯特罗德提到他迫切需要钱时，他并不知道莱佛士的存在，并且由于这次沟通，他无辜地拿走了这笔钱，不知道可能会出现新的贷款动机。他被召唤到这个人身边。毕竟，对布尔斯特罗德动机的怀疑可能是不公正的。

But then came the question whether he should have acted in precisely the same way if he had not taken the money? Certainly, if Raffles had continued alive and susceptible of further treatment when he arrived, and he had then imagined any disobedience to his orders on the part of Bulstrode, he would have made a strict inquiry, and if his conjecture had been verified he would have thrown up the case, in spite of his recent heavy obligation. But if he had not received any money— if Bulstrode had never revoked his cold recommendation of bankruptcy— would he, Lydgate, have abstained from all inquiry even on finding the man dead?—would the shrinking from an insult to Bulstrode— would the dubiousness of all medical treatment and the argument that his own treatment would pass for the wrong with most members of his profession—have had just the same force or significance with him?
但随之而来的问题是，如果他没有拿钱，他是否应该采取完全相同的行动？当然，如果莱佛士到达时还活着并且可以接受进一步的治疗，然后他想象布尔斯特罗德有任何不服从他的命令的情况，他就会进行严格的调查，如果他的推测得到证实，他就会尽管他最近有繁重的义务，但还是提出了这个案子。但是，如果他没有收到任何钱——如果布尔斯特罗德从未撤销他冷酷的破产建议——他，利德盖特，会放弃所有调查，即使是在发现那个人死后吗？——会因为对布尔斯特罗德的侮辱而退缩吗？所有的医疗治疗以及他自己的治疗被大多数专业人士认为是错误的论点——对他来说是否具有同样的力量或意义？

That was the uneasy corner of Lydgate’s consciousness while he was reviewing the facts and resisting all reproach. If he had been independent, this matter of a patient’s treatment and the distinct rule that he must do or see done that which he believed best for the life committed to him, would have been the point on which he would have been the sturdiest. As it was, he had rested in the consideration that disobedience to his orders, however it might have arisen, could not be considered a crime, that in the dominant opinion obedience to his orders was just as likely to be fatal, and that the affair was simply one of etiquette. Whereas, again and again, in his time of freedom, he had denounced the perversion of pathological doubt into moral doubt and had said— ‘the purest experiment in treatment may still be conscientious: my business is to take care of life, and to do the best I can think of for it. Science is properly more scrupulous than dogma. Dogma gives a charter to mistake, but the very breath of science is a contest with mistake, and must keep the conscience alive.’ Alas! the scientific conscience had got into the debasing company of money obligation and selfish respects.
这是利德盖特在审视事实、抵制一切非难时意识中不安的一角。如果他是独立的，那么病人的治疗问题以及他必须做或看到做他认为对他一生最好的事情的明确规则，将是他最坚定的一点。事实上，他考虑到，不服从他的命令，无论是如何发生的，都不能被视为犯罪，在主流观点中，服从他的命令同样可能是致命的，而且这件事只是礼仪之一。然而，在他的自由时期，他一次又一次地谴责将病态怀疑扭曲为道德怀疑，并说道：“最纯粹的治疗实验可能仍然是认真的：我的职责是照顾生命，并做我能想到的最好的。科学确实比教条更加严谨。教条为错误提供了许可，但科学的本质就是与错误的较量，并且必须保持良心的活力。’唉！科学良知已经与金钱义务和自私尊重混在一起了。

‘Is there a medical man of them all in Middlemarch who would question himself as I do?’ said poor Lydgate, with a renewed outburst of rebellion against the oppression of his lot. ‘And yet they will all feel warranted in making a wide space between me and them, as if I were a leper! My practice and my reputation are utterly damned— I can see that. Even if I could be cleared by valid evidence, it would make little difference to the blessed world here. I have been set down as tainted and should be cheapened to them all the same.’
“在米德尔马契，有一个医生会像我一样质疑自己吗？”可怜的利德盖特说道，他再次爆发了反抗命运的压迫。 “然而，他们都会觉得有必要在我和他们之间拉开一段距离，就好像我是一个麻风病人一样！”我的做法和我的名声都该死了——我可以看到这一点。就算有确凿的证据证明我的清白，对这里的幸福世界也没什么影响。我被认为是有污点的，但无论如何都应该被他们贬低。

Already there had been abundant signs which had hitherto puzzled him, that just when he had been paying off his debts and getting cheerfully on his feet, the townsmen were avoiding him or looking strangely. at him, and in two instances it came to his knowledge that patients of his had called in another practitioner. The reasons were too plain now. The general black-balling had begun.
已经有大量的迹象让他至今感到困惑，那就是当他还清债务、兴高采烈地站起来时，镇上的人都在避开他，或者用异样的眼光看他。有两次，他得知他的病人请来了另一位医生。现在原因太明显了。普遍的黑球已经开始。

No wonder that in Lydgate’s energetic nature the sense of a hopeless misconstruction easily turned into a dogged resistance. The scowl which occasionally showed itself on his square brow was not a meaningless accident. Already when he was re-entering the town after that ride taken in the first hours of stinging pain, he was setting his mind on remaining in Middlemarch in spite of the worst that could be done against him. He would not retreat before calumny, as if he submitted to it. He would face it to the utmost, and no act of his should show that he was afraid. It belonged to the generosity as well as defiant force of his nature that he resolved not to shrink from showing to the full his sense of obligation to Bulstrode. It was true that the association with this man had been fatal to him— true that if he had had the thousand pounds still in his hands with all his debts unpaid he would have returned the money to Bulstrode, and taken beggary rather than the rescue which had been sullied with the suspicion of a bribe (for, remember, he was one of the proudest among the sons of men)—nevertheless, he would not turn away from this crushed fellow-mortal whose aid he had used, and make a pitiful effort to get acquittal for himself by howling against another. ‘I shall do as I think right, and explain to nobody. They will try to starve me out, but—‘ he was going on with an obstinate resolve, but he was getting near home, and the thought of Rosamond urged itself again into that chief place from which it had been thrust by the agonized struggles of wounded honor and pride.
难怪在利德盖特精力充沛的本性中，绝望的误解很容易变成顽强的抵抗。他方额头上偶尔露出的愁容并非毫无意义的意外。在经历了最初几个小时的刺痛之后，当他重新进入城镇时，他已经下定决心要留在米德尔马契，尽管有可能对他造成的最坏的结果。他不会在诽谤面前退缩，就好像他屈服了一样。他会全力面对，他的任何行为都不能表现出他的害怕。他的慷慨和反抗力量决定了他毫不犹豫地向布尔斯特罗德充分表达了自己的义务。确实，与这个人的交往对他来说是致命的——确实，如果他手里还握着那一千英镑，而且所有的债务都没有还清，他就会把钱还给布尔斯特罗德，并接受乞讨，而不是接受救援。他曾因受贿嫌疑而受到玷污（因为，请记住，他是人类中最骄傲的人之一）——尽管如此，他不会离开这个他曾经帮助过的被压垮的凡人，并做出一个可怜的举动。试图通过向他人咆哮来为自己开脱。 “我会做我认为正确的事情，不会向任何人解释。”他们会想办法把我饿死，但是——”他带着顽强的决心继续说下去，但他已经快到家了，罗莎蒙德的想法又再次回到了那个主要的地方，它被人们的痛苦挣扎推离了。受伤的荣誉和骄傲。

How would Rosamond take it all? Here was another weight of chain to drag, and poor Lydgate was in a bad mood for bearing her dumb mastery. He had no impulse to tell her the trouble which must soon be common to them both. He preferred waiting for the incidental disclosure which events must soon bring about.
罗莎蒙德将如何接受这一切？这又是一道沉重的锁链要拖，可怜的利德盖特因为承受了她愚蠢的掌握而心情不好。他没有冲动告诉她他们很快就会遇到的麻烦。他宁愿等待事件很快就会发生的附带披露。

CHAPTER LXXIV
第六十四章

‘Mercifully grant that we may grow aged together.’
“仁慈地允许我们一起变老。”

—BOOK OF TOBIT: Marriage Prayer.
——托比特之书：婚姻祈祷。

In Middlemarch a wife could not long remain ignorant that the town held a bad opinion of her husband. No feminine intimate might carry her friendship so far as to make a plain statement to the wife of the unpleasant fact known or believed about her husband; but when a woman with her thoughts much at leisure got them suddenly employed on something grievously disadvantageous to her neighbors, various moral impulses were called into play which tended to stimulate utterance. Candor was one. To be candid, in Middlemarch phraseology, meant, to use an early opportunity of letting your friends know that you did not take a cheerful view of their capacity, their conduct, or their position; and a robust candor never waited to be asked for its opinion. Then, again, there was the love of truth—a wide phrase, but meaning in this relation, a lively objection to seeing a wife look happier than her husband’s character warranted, or manifest too much satisfaction in her lot—the poor thing should have some hint given her that if she knew the truth she would have less complacency in her bonnet, and in light dishes for a supper-party. Stronger than all, there was the regard for a friend’s moral improvement, sometimes called her soul, which was likely to be benefited by remarks tending to gloom, uttered with the accompaniment of pensive staring at the furniture and a manner implying that the speaker would not tell what was on her mind, from regard to the feelings of her hearer. On the whole, one might say that an ardent charity was at work setting the virtuous mind to make a neighbor unhappy for her good.
在米德尔马契，妻子不可能长期不知道镇上对她丈夫的看法不好。女性亲密的人不可能将她的友谊发展到向妻子直白地陈述她所知道或相信的关于她丈夫的不愉快的事实。但是，当一个思想闲适的女人突然开始做一些对邻居极为不利的事情时，各种道德冲动就会发挥作用，从而刺激言论。坦率就是其中之一。用米德尔马契的措辞来说，坦诚意味着尽早让你的朋友知道你对他们的能力、行为或立场并不乐观；强烈的坦诚从不等待被征求意见。然后，再一次，还有对真理的热爱——一个宽泛的短语，但在这种关系中，它的意思是强烈反对看到妻子看起来比她丈夫的性格所保证的更幸福，或者对她的命运表现出太多的满足——可怜的东西应该有一些暗示告诉她，如果她知道真相，她就不会那么自满于自己的帽子，也不会在晚餐聚会上吃清淡的菜肴。最重要的是，对朋友的道德进步的尊重，有时被称为她的灵魂，这可能会受益于那些倾向于忧郁的言论，伴随着若有所思地盯着家具，以及暗示说话者不会这样做的方式。考虑听者的感受，说出她的想法。总的来说，人们可能会说，一种热心的慈善事业正在发挥作用，让善良的心灵为邻居的利益而感到不高兴。

There were hardly any wives in Middlemarch whose matrimonial misfortunes would in different ways be likely to call forth more of this moral activity than Rosamond and her aunt Bulstrode. Mrs. Bulstrode was not an object of dislike, and had never consciously injured any human being. Men had always thought her a handsome comfortable woman, and had reckoned it among the signs of Bulstrode’s hypocrisy that he had chosen a red-blooded Vincy, instead of a ghastly and melancholy person suited to his low esteem for earthly pleasure. When the scandal about her husband was disclosed they remarked of her—‘Ah, poor woman! She’s as honest as the day—SHE never suspected anything wrong in him, you may depend on it.’ Women, who were intimate with her, talked together much of ‘poor Harriet,’ imagined what her feelings must be when she came to know everything, and conjectured how much she had already come to know. There was no spiteful disposition towards her; rather, there was a busy benevolence anxious to ascertain what it would be well for her to feel and do under the circumstances, which of course kept the imagination occupied with her character and history from the times when she was Harriet Vincy till now. With the review of Mrs. Bulstrode and her position it was inevitable to associate Rosamond, whose prospects were under the same blight with her aunt’s. Rosamond was more severely criticised and less pitied, though she too, as one of the good old Vincy family who had always been known in Middlemarch, was regarded as a victim to marriage with an interloper. The Vincys had their weaknesses, but then they lay on the surface: there was never anything bad to be ‘found out’ concerning them. Mrs. Bulstrode was vindicated from any resemblance to her husband. Harriet’s faults were her own.
在米德尔马奇，几乎没有哪个妻子的婚姻不幸会以不同的方式比罗莎蒙德和她的姨妈布尔斯特罗德更能唤起这种道德活动。布尔斯特罗德夫人并不是令人讨厌的对象，也从未故意伤害过任何人。男人们一直认为她是一个英俊舒适的女人，并认为布尔斯特罗德选择了一个热血沸腾的文西，而不是一个适合他对尘世快乐的不尊重的可怕而忧郁的人，这也是布尔斯特罗德虚伪的标志之一。当她丈夫的丑闻被揭露时，他们这样评价她：“啊，可怜的女人！”她和今天一样诚实——她从来没有怀疑过他有什么问题，你可以相信这一点。”与她关系亲密的女人们在一起谈论了很多“可怜的哈里特”，想象着当她知道后她的感受一定是什么一切，并推测她已经知道了多少。对她没有恶意；相反，她有一种忙碌的仁慈，急切地想确定在这种情况下她的感受和做法对她来说是有好处的，这当然让人们对她的性格和历史充满想象力，从她是哈丽特·文西到现在。回顾布尔斯特罗德夫人和她的立场，我们不可避免地会把罗莎蒙德联系起来，罗莎蒙德的前景与她姨妈的前景同样黯淡。罗莎蒙德受到的批评更为严厉，而怜悯却较少，尽管她作为米德尔马契一直有名的文西家族中的一员，也被视为与闯入者结婚的受害者。文西家族有他们的弱点，但他们都暴露在表面上：从来没有任何关于他们的坏事可以被“发现”。布尔斯特罗德夫人与她丈夫有任何相似之处，这都被证明是正确的。哈丽特的错误是她自己的。

‘She has always been showy,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt, making tea for a small party, ‘though she has got into the way of putting her religion forward, to conform to her husband; she has tried to hold her head up above Middlemarch by making it known that she invites clergymen and heaven-knows-who from Riverston and those places.’
“她一直很引人注目，”哈克布特夫人一边为一个小型聚会泡茶，一边说，“尽管她已经开始宣扬自己的宗教信仰，以迎合她的丈夫；但她的表现却很出色。”她试图让人们知道她邀请了来自里弗斯顿和那些地方的牧师和天知道谁，从而让自己的头高于米德尔马契。

‘We can hardly blame her for that,’ said Mrs. Sprague; ‘because few of the best people in the town cared to associate with Balstrode, and she must have somebody to sit down at her table.’
“我们不能为此责怪她，”斯普拉格夫人说。 “因为镇上最优秀的人很少愿意与巴尔斯特罗德打交道，她必须有人坐在她的桌子旁。”

‘Mr. Thesiger has always countenanced him,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt. ‘I think he must be sorry now.’
'先生。塞西格一直很支持他，”哈克布特夫人说。 “我想他现在一定很抱歉。”

‘But he was never fond of him in his heart—that every one knows,’ said Mrs. Tom Toller. ‘Mr. Thesiger never goes into extremes. He keeps to the truth in what is evangelical. It is only clergymen like Mr. Tyke, who want to use Dissenting hymn-books and that low kind of religion, who ever found Bulstrode to their taste.’
“但他心里从来不喜欢他——这是每个人都知道的，”汤姆·托勒夫人说。 '先生。塞西格从不走极端。他坚持福音派的真理。只有像泰克先生这样想使用异议赞美诗集和低级宗教的牧师才会发现布尔斯特罗德符合他们的口味。

‘I understand, Mr. Tyke is in great distress about him,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt. ‘And well he may be: they say the Bulstrodes have half kept the Tyke family.’
“我明白，泰克先生为他感到非常痛苦，”哈克布特夫人说。 “也许他确实是这样：他们说布尔斯特罗德家族保留了泰克家族的一半财产。”

‘And of coarse it is a discredit to his doctrines,’ said Mrs. Sprague, who was elderly, and old-fashioned in her opinions.
“粗俗地说，这是对他的学说的抹黑，”斯普拉格夫人说，她年事已高，而且她的观点也很守旧。

‘People will not make a boast of being methodistical in Middlemarch for a good while to come.’
“在未来很长一段时间内，人们不会夸耀米德尔马契有条不紊。”

‘I think we must not set down people’s bad actions to their religion,’ said falcon-faced Mrs. Plymdale, who had been listening hitherto.
“我认为我们不能把人们的不良行为归咎于他们的宗教信仰，”一直在听的长着猎鹰脸的普利姆代尔夫人说道。

‘Oh, my dear, we are forgetting,’ said Mrs. Sprague. ‘We ought not to be talking of this before you.’
“哦，亲爱的，我们忘记了，”斯普拉格夫人说。 “我们不应该在你面前谈论这个。”

‘I am sure I have no reason to be partial,’ said Mrs. Plymdale, coloring. ‘It’s true Mr. Plymdale has always been on good terms with Mr. Bulstrode, and Harriet Vincy was my friend long before she married him. But I have always kept my own opinions and told her where she was wrong, poor thing. Still, in point of religion, I must say, Mr. Bulstrode might have done what he has, and worse, and yet have been a man of no religion. I don’t say that there has not been a little too much of that—I like moderation myself. But truth is truth. The men tried at the assizes are not all over-religious, I suppose.’
“我确信我没有理由偏心，”普利姆代尔夫人脸红地说。 “确实，普利姆代尔先生与布尔斯特罗德先生关系一直很好，哈里特·文西早在嫁给他之前就是我的朋友。但我一直保留自己的意见，并告诉她她错在哪里，可怜的东西。不过，就宗教而言，我必须说，布尔斯特罗德先生可能做了他所做的事情，甚至更糟，但他却是一个没有宗教信仰的人。我并不是说这样的事情没有太多——我自己喜欢节制。但事实就是事实。我想，在巡回审判中受审的人并不都过于虔诚。

‘Well,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt, wheeling adroitly, ‘all I can say is, that I think she ought to separate from him.’
“好吧，”哈克布特夫人熟练地转动着身体，“我只能说，我认为她应该和他分开。”

‘I can’t say that,’ said Mrs. Sprague. ‘She took him for better or worse, you know.’
“我不能这么说，”斯普拉格夫人说。 “你知道，她对他的看法是好是坏。”

‘But ‘worse’ can never mean finding out that your husband is fit for Newgate,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt. ‘Fancy living with such a man! I should expect to be poisoned.’
“但是‘更糟’绝不意味着发现你的丈夫适合纽盖特，”哈克布特夫人说。 ‘真想和这样的男人一起生活啊！我应该预料到会中毒。

‘Yes, I think myself it is an encouragement to crime if such men are to be taken care of and waited on by good wives,’ said Mrs. Tom Toller.
“是的，我个人认为，如果这些男人得到好妻子的照顾和伺候，那就是对犯罪的鼓励，”汤姆·托勒夫人说。

‘And a good wife poor Harriet has been,’ said Mrs. Plymdale. ‘She thinks her husband the first of men. It’s true he has never denied her anything.’
“可怜的哈丽特是一位好妻子，”普林代尔太太说。 “她认为她的丈夫是男人中的第一人。确实，他从来没有拒绝过她任何事情。

‘Well, we shall see what she will do,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt. ‘I suppose she knows nothing yet, poor creature. I do hope and trust I shall not see her, for I should be frightened to death lest I should say anything about her husband. Do you think any hint has reached her?’
“好吧，我们看看她会做什么，”哈克布特夫人说。 “我想她还什么都不知道，可怜的女人。”我确实希望并相信我不会见到她，因为我会害怕得要死，以免我说出任何关于她丈夫的事情。你认为她有什么暗示吗？

‘I should hardly think so,’ said Mrs. Tom Toller. ‘We hear that he is ill, and has never stirred out of the house since the meeting on Thursday; but she was with her girls at church yesterday, and they had new Tuscan bonnets. Her own had a feather in it. I have never seen that her religion made any difference in her dress.’
“我不应该这么认为，”汤姆·托勒夫人说。 “我们听说他病了，自从周四的会议以来，他就再也没有走出过家门；但昨天她和她的女儿们一起去教堂，她们戴着新的托斯卡纳帽子。她自己的里面有一根羽毛。我从来没有发现她的宗教信仰对她的着装有任何影响。

‘She wears very neat patterns always,’ said Mrs. Plymdale, a little stung. ‘And that feather I know she got dyed a pale lavender on purpose to be consistent. I must say it of Harriet that she wishes to do right.’
“她总是穿着非常整齐的图案，”普利姆代尔夫人说，有点刺痛。 “我知道那根羽毛是她故意染成淡紫色的，以保持一致。我必须对哈丽特说，她希望做正确的事。

‘As to her knowing what has happened, it can’t be kept from her long,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt. ‘The Vincys know, for Mr. Vincy was at the meeting. It will he a great blow to him. There is his daughter as well as his sister.’
“至于她知道发生了什么事，她不可能瞒得太久，”哈克布特夫人说。 “文西一家知道，因为文西先生参加了会议。这对他来说将会是一个很大的打击。还有他的女儿和妹妹。

‘Yes, indeed,’ said Mrs. Sprague. ‘Nobody supposes that Mr. Lydgate can go on holding up his head in Middlemarch, things look so black about the thousand pounds he took just at that man’s death. It really makes one shudder.’
“是的，确实如此，”斯普拉格夫人说。 “没有人认为利德盖特先生能够在米德尔马契继续昂首挺胸，他在那个人死后拿走的一千英镑的事情看起来是如此黑暗。这确实让人不寒而栗。

‘Pride must have a fall,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt.
“骄傲必定会下降，”哈克布特夫人说。

‘I am not so sorry for Rosamond Vincy that was as I am for her aunt,’ said Mrs. Plymdale. ‘She needed a lesson.’
“我对罗莎蒙德·文西的遗憾并不像我对她姨妈的遗憾那样，”普林代尔夫人说。 “她需要教训。”

‘I suppose the Bulstrodes will go and live abroad somewhere,’ said Mrs. Sprague. ‘That is what is generally done when there is anything disgraceful in a family.’
“我想布尔斯特罗德一家会去国外某个地方生活，”斯普拉格夫人说。 “当家庭中出现任何不光彩的事情时，通常都会这样做。”

‘And a most deadly blow it will be to Harriet,’ said Mrs. Plymdale. ‘If ever a woman was crushed, she will be. I pity her from my heart. And with all her faults, few women are better. From a girl she had the neatest ways, and was always good-hearted, and as open as the day. You might look into her drawers when you would—always the same. And so she has brought up Kate and Ellen. You may think how hard it will be for her to go among foreigners.’
“这对哈里特来说将是最致命的打击，”普林代尔夫人说。 “如果有一个女人被压垮了，她一定会被压垮。”我从心里可怜她。尽管有种种缺点，但很少有女人比她更好。作为一个女孩，她有着最优雅的举止，而且总是心地善良，而且像白天一样开放。你可能会随时查看她的抽屉——总是一样。所以她抚养了凯特和艾伦。你可能会想，她到外国人中间去是多么困难。”

‘The doctor says that is what he should recommend the Lydgates to do,’ said Mrs. Sprague. ‘He says Lydgate ought to have kept among the French.’
“医生说他应该建议利德盖特夫妇这样做，”斯普拉格夫人说。 “他说利德盖特应该留在法国。”

‘That would suit HER well enough, I dare say,’ said Mrs. Plymdale; ‘there is that kind of lightness about her. But she got that from her mother; she never got it from her aunt Bulstrode, who always gave her good advice, and to my knowledge would rather have had her marry elsewhere.’
“我敢说，这很适合她，”普林代尔夫人说。 “她有一种轻松的感觉。但这是她从她母亲那里得到的；她从来没有从她的姨妈布尔斯特罗德那里得到这一点，她总是给她很好的建议，据我所知，她宁愿让她嫁给其他地方。

Mrs. Plymdale was in a situation which caused her some complication of feeling. There had been not only her intimacy with Mrs. Bulstrode, but also a profitable business relation of the great Plymdale dyeing house with Mr. Bulstrode, which on the one hand would have inclined her to desire that the mildest view of his character should be the true one, but on the other, made her the more afraid of seeming to palliate his culpability. Again, the late alliance of her family with the Tollers had brought her in connection with the best circle, which gratified her in every direction except in the inclination to those serious views which she believed to be the best in another sense. The sharp little woman’s conscience was somewhat troubled in the adjustment of these opposing ‘bests,’ and of her griefs and satisfactions under late events, which were likely to humble those who needed humbling, but also to fall heavily on her old friend whose faults she would have preferred seeing on a background of prosperity.
普利姆代尔夫人的处境使她的心情有些复杂。她不仅与布尔斯特罗德夫人关系密切，而且还与布尔斯特罗德先生在普利姆代尔大染坊之间建立了有利可图的业务关系，一方面，这会使她希望对他的性格最温和的看法应该是最温和的。确实如此，但另一方面，却让她更加害怕似乎在减轻他的罪责。再一次，她的家族后来与托勒家族结盟，使她与最好的圈子建立了联系，这使她在各个方面都感到满意，除了倾向于那些她认为在另一种意义上是最好的严肃观点。这位敏锐的小女人的良心在调整这些对立的“最好的”以及她在最近发生的事件中的悲伤和满足时感到有些不安，这很可能使那些需要谦卑的人感到谦卑，但也沉重地落在她的老朋友身上，她的错误她更愿意看到繁荣的背景。

Poor Mrs. Bulstrode, meanwhile, had been no further shaken by the oncoming tread of calamity than in the busier stirring of that secret uneasiness which had always been present in her since the last visit of Raffles to The Shrubs. That the hateful man had come ill to Stone Court, and that her husband had chosen to remain there and watch over him, she allowed to be explained by the fact that Raffles had been employed and aided in earlier-days, and that this made a tie of benevolence towards him in his degraded helplessness; and she had been since then innocently cheered by her husband’s more hopeful speech about his own health and ability to continue his attention to business. The calm was disturbed when Lydgate had brought him home ill from the meeting, and in spite of comforting assurances during the next few days, she cried in private from the conviction that her husband was not suffering from bodily illness merely, but from something that afflicted his mind. He would not allow her to read to him, and scarcely to sit with him, alleging nervous susceptibility to sounds and movements; yet she suspected that in shutting himself up in his private room he wanted to be busy with his papers. Something, she felt sure, had happened. Perhaps it was some great loss of money; and she was kept in the dark. Not daring to question her husband, she said to Lydgate, on the fifth day after the meeting, when she had not left home except to go to church—
与此同时，可怜的布尔斯特罗德夫人并没有因为即将到来的灾难而感到更加震惊，而是因为自莱佛士上次访问灌木丛以来一直存在于她内心的秘密不安更加忙碌地搅动着。那个可恶的男人在斯通庭院生病了，而她的丈夫选择留在那里照顾他，她允许用莱佛士早些时候受雇和援助的事实来解释，这使得在他堕落的无助中对他怀有仁慈的纽带；从那时起，她一直天真地为丈夫对自己的健康和继续关注生意的能力充满希望的讲话感到高兴。当利德盖特带他生病从会议回家时，平静被打破了，尽管在接下来的几天里她做出了令人欣慰的保证，但她私下里哭了，因为她确信她的丈夫不仅仅是身体上的疾病，而是某种折磨着她的东西。他的脑子。他不允许她读书给他听，也几乎不和他坐在一起，声称她对声音和动作很敏感。但她怀疑他把自己关在私人房间里是想忙于处理文件。她确信，发生了什么事。也许这是一笔巨大的金钱损失；而她却被蒙在鼓里。会议结束后的第五天，她除了去教堂之外没有离开过家，她不敢质问她的丈夫，她对利德盖特说：

‘Mr. Lydgate, pray be open with me: I like to know the truth. Has anything happened to Mr. Bulstrode?’
'先生。利德盖特，请对我开诚布公：我喜欢知道真相。布尔斯特罗德先生出什么事了吗？

‘Some little nervous shock,’ said Lydgate, evasively. He felt that it was not for him to make the painful revelation.
“有点紧张，”利德盖特回避地说。他觉得不应该由他来揭露这一痛苦的真相。

‘But what brought it on?’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, looking directly at him with her large dark eyes.
“但是是什么导致了这种情况呢？”布尔斯特罗德夫人用她那双乌黑的大眼睛直视着他。

‘There is often something poisonous in the air of public rooms,’ said Lydgate. ‘Strong men can stand it, but it tells on people in proportion to the delicacy of their systems. It is often impossible to account for the precise moment of an attack—or rather, to say why the strength gives way at a particular moment.’
“公共房间的空气中经常含有有毒物质，”利德盖特说。 “坚强的人可以忍受它，但它对人们的影响与他们的系统的脆弱性成正比。通常不可能解释攻击的精确时刻，或者更确切地说，无法解释为什么力量会在特定时刻减弱。

Mrs. Bulstrode was not satisfied with this answer. There remained in her the belief that some calamity had befallen her husband, of which she was to be kept in ignorance; and it was in her nature strongly to object to such concealment. She begged leave for her daughters to sit with their father, and drove into the town to pay some visits, conjecturing that if anything were known to have gone wrong in Mr. Bulstrode’s affairs, she should see or hear some sign of it.
布尔斯特罗德夫人对这个答案并不满意。她心里仍然坚信，她的丈夫遭遇了某种灾难，而她必须对此一无所知。她的本性是强烈反对这种隐瞒。她请假让女儿们和父亲坐在一起，然后开车进城去拜访了一些人，她猜想，如果布尔斯特罗德先生的事务出了什么问题，她应该会看到或听到一些迹象。

She called on Mrs. Thesiger, who was not at home, and then drove to Mrs. Hackbutt’s on the other side of the churchyard. Mrs. Hackbutt saw her coming from an up-stairs window, and remembering her former alarm lest she should meet Mrs. Bulstrode, felt almost bound in consistency to send word that she was not at home; but against that, there was a sudden strong desire within her for the excitement of an interview in which she was quite determined not to make the slightest allusion to what was in her mind.
她拜访了不在家的塞西格夫人，然后开车前往教堂墓地另一边的哈克布特夫人家。哈克布特太太看到她从楼上的窗户走来，想起了她之前的警报，唯恐遇见布尔斯特罗德太太，她觉得几乎一定要发消息说她不在家。但与此相反，她内心突然强烈地渴望接受采访的兴奋，在采访中她坚决不提及自己的想法。

Hence Mrs. Bulstrode was shown into the drawing-room, and Mrs. Hackbutt went to her, with more tightness of lip and rubbing of her hands than was usually observable in her, these being precautions adopted against freedom of speech. She was resolved not to ask how Mr. Bulstrode was.
因此，布尔斯特罗德夫人被领进了客厅，哈克布特夫人走向她，她的嘴唇比平时更紧，双手也更紧地搓着，这些都是针对言论自由采取的预防措施。她决定不问布尔斯特罗德先生怎么样。

‘I have not been anywhere except to church for nearly a week,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, after a few introductory remarks. ‘But Mr. Bulstrode was taken so ill at the meeting on Thursday that I have not liked to leave the house.’
“近一个星期以来，除了去教堂，我没有去过任何地方，”布尔斯特罗德夫人在做了一些介绍性发言后说道。 “但是布尔斯特罗德先生在周四的会议上病得很重，我不想离开家。”

Mrs. Hackbutt rubbed the back of one hand with the palm of the other held against her chest, and let her eyes ramble over the pattern on the rug.
哈克布特夫人用一只手的手背揉搓着，另一只手的手掌靠在胸前，眼睛扫视着地毯上的图案。

‘Was Mr. Hackbutt at the meeting?’ persevered Mrs. Bulstrode.
“哈克布特先生参加了会议吗？”布尔斯特罗德夫人坚持问道。

‘Yes, he was,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt, with the same attitude. ‘The land is to be bought by subscription, I believe.’
“是的，他是，”哈克布特夫人以同样的态度说道。 “我相信，这块土地是通过认购的方式购买的。”

‘Let us hope that there will be no more cases of cholera to be buried in it,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode. ‘It is an awful visitation. But I always think Middlemarch a very healthy spot. I suppose it is being used to it from a child; but I never saw the town I should like to live at better, and especially our end.’
“让我们希望不再有霍乱病例被埋在其中，”布尔斯特罗德夫人说。 “这是一次可怕的拜访。但我一直认为米德尔马奇是一个非常健康的地方。我想这是从小就习惯了；但我从来没有见过我想要住得更好的小镇，尤其是我们的结局。”

‘I am sure I should be glad that you always should live at Middlemarch, Mrs. Bulstrode,’ said Mrs. Hackbutt, with a slight sigh. ‘Still, we must learn to resign ourselves, wherever our lot may be east. Though I am sure there will always be people in this town who will wish you well.’
“布尔斯特罗德夫人，我确信您应该永远住在米德尔马奇，这让我感到很高兴。”哈克布特夫人轻轻叹了口气说道。 “尽管如此，无论我们的命运在哪里，我们都必须学会听天由命。但我相信这个镇上总会有人祝你一切顺利。”

Mrs. Hackbutt longed to say, ‘if you take my advice you will part from your husband,’ but it seemed clear to her that the poor woman knew nothing of the thunder ready to bolt on her head, and she herself could do no more than prepare her a little. Mrs. Bulstrode felt suddenly rather chill and trembling: there was evidently something unusual behind this speech of Mrs. Hackbutt’s; but though she had set out with the desire to be fully informed, she found herself unable now to pursue her brave purpose, and turning the conversation by an inquiry about the young Hackbutts, she soon took her leave saying that she was going to see Mrs. Plymdale. On her way thither she tried to imagine that there might have been some unusually warm sparring at the meeting between Mr. Bulstrode and some of his frequent opponents—perhaps Mr. Hackbutt might have been one of them. That would account for everything.
哈克布特夫人很想说：“如果你接受我的建议，你就会与你的丈夫分开。”但她似乎很清楚，这个可怜的女人对即将降临在她头上的雷声一无所知，而她自己也无能为力。不如让她做好一点准备。布尔斯特罗德夫人突然感到浑身发冷，浑身发抖：哈克布特夫人的这番话显然有些不寻常。尽管她出发时希望得到充分的消息，但她发现自己现在无法实现她勇敢的目的，于是把话题转向了关于年轻的哈克布茨的询问，她很快就离开了，说她要去见夫人.普利姆代尔。在去那里的路上，她试图想象布尔斯特罗德先生和他的一些经常反对者之间的会议上可能会发生一些异常激烈的争吵——也许哈克布特先生可能就是其中之一。这样就可以解释一切了。

But when she was in conversation with Mrs. Plymdale that comforting explanation seemed no longer tenable. ‘Selina’ received her with a pathetic affectionateness and a disposition to give edifying answers on the commonest topics, which could hardly have reference to an ordinary quarrel of which the most important consequence was a perturbation of Mr. Bulstrode’s health. Beforehand Mrs. Bulstrode had thought that she would sooner question Mrs. Plymdale than any one else; but she found to her surprise that an old friend is not always the person whom it is easiest to make a confidant of: there was the barrier of remembered communication under other circumstances— there was the dislike of being pitied and informed by one who had been long wont to allow her the superiority. For certain words of mysterious appropriateness that Mrs. Plymdale let fall about her resolution never to turn her back on her friends, convinced Mrs. Bulstrode that what had happened must be some kind of misfortune, and instead of being able to say with her native directness, ‘What is it that you have in your mind?’ she found herself anxious to get away before she had heard anything more explicit. She began to have an agitating certainty that the misfortune was something more than the mere loss of money, being keenly sensitive to the fact that Selina now, just as Mrs. Hackbutt had done before, avoided noticing what she said about her husband, as they would have avoided noticing a personal blemish.
但当她与普林代尔夫人交谈时，这种安慰性的解释似乎不再站得住脚了。 “塞琳娜”以一种可悲的深情接待了她，并就最常见的话题给出了有启发性的答案，这几乎不可能指的是一场普通的争吵，其最重要的后果是布尔斯特罗德先生的健康受到干扰。布尔斯特罗德夫人事先以为她会比其他人更快地询问普利姆代尔夫人。但她惊讶地发现，老朋友并不总是最容易成为知己的人：在其他情况下，记忆中的交流存在障碍——不喜欢被一个曾经的朋友怜悯和告知。长期以来不让她有优越感。普利姆代尔夫人在表达自己决不背弃朋友的决心时说了一些神秘而恰当的话，使布尔斯特罗德夫人相信所发生的事情一定是某种不幸，而不是能够用她天生的直接说出来“你脑子里想的是什么？”在听到更明确的内容之前，她发现自己急于离开。她开始有了一种令人不安的确信，这种不幸不仅仅是金钱上的损失，她对这样一个事实非常敏感：塞琳娜现在就像哈克布特夫人以前所做的那样，避免注意到她对丈夫的评价，因为他们本来可以避免注意到个人缺陷。

She said good-by with nervous haste, and told the coachman to drive to Mr. Vincy’s warehouse. In that short drive her dread gathered so much force from the sense of darkness, that when she entered the private counting-house where her brother sat at his desk, her knees trembled and her usually florid face was deathly pale. Something of the same effect was produced in him by the sight of her: he rose from his seat to meet her, took her by the hand, and said, with his impulsive rashness—
她紧张地匆忙地道别，并告诉车夫开车去文西先生的仓库。在那短短的车程中，黑暗的感觉让她的恐惧变得如此强烈，以至于当她进入她哥哥坐在办公桌前的私人会计室时，她的膝盖颤抖着，她平时红润的脸变得死一般苍白。看到她，他心里也产生了同样的效果：他从座位上站起来迎接她，拉着她的手，带着冲动的鲁莽说道——

‘God help you, Harriet! you know all.’
“上帝保佑你，哈丽特！你什么都知道。

That moment was perhaps worse than any which came after. It contained that concentrated experience which in great crises of emotion reveals the bias of a nature, and is prophetic of the ultimate act which will end an intermediate struggle. Without that memory of Raffles she might still have thought only of monetary ruin, but now along with her brother’s look and words there darted into her mind the idea of some guilt in her husband—then, under the working of terror came the image of her husband exposed to disgrace— and then, after an instant of scorching shame in which she felt only the eyes of the world, with one leap of her heart she was at his side in mournful but unreproaching fellowship with shame and isolation. All this went on within her in a mere flash of time— while she sank into the chair, and raised her eyes to her brother, who stood over her. ‘I know nothing, Walter. What is it?’ she said, faintly.
那一刻或许比之后的任何时刻都要糟糕。它包含了一种集中的经验，这种经验在情感的巨大危机中揭示了本性的偏见，并预示着结束中间斗争的最终行动。如果没有对莱佛士的记忆，她可能仍然只想到金钱上的损失，但现在，随着她哥哥的表情和话语，她的脑海中突然浮现出她丈夫有罪的想法——然后，在恐惧的作用下，她的形象出现了。丈夫蒙羞——然后，在一阵灼热的耻辱之后，她只感觉全世界的目光都在注视着她，她猛地跳到他身边，带着羞耻和孤独，悲伤但无可指责地陪伴在他身边。这一切都在她的心里发生了，只是一瞬间的事——她坐进椅子里，抬起眼睛看着站在她身边的哥哥。 “我什么都不知道，沃尔特。这是什么？”她微弱地说。

He told her everything, very inartificially, in slow fragments, making her aware that the scandal went much beyond proof, especially as to the end of Raffles.
他非常不自然地、缓慢地碎片化地告诉了她一切，让她意识到这起丑闻远远超出了证据的范围，尤其是关于莱佛士的结局。

‘People will talk,’ he said. ‘Even if a man has been acquitted by a jury, they’ll talk, and nod and wink—and as far as the world goes, a man might often as well be guilty as not. It’s a breakdown blow, and it damages Lydgate as much as Bulstrode. I don’t pretend to say what is the truth. I only wish we had never heard the name of either Bulstrode or Lydgate. You’d better have been a Vincy all your life, and so had Rosamond.’ Mrs. Bulstrode made no reply.
“人们会说话，”他说。 “即使一个人被陪审团宣判无罪，他们也会说话、点头、眨眼——就世界而言，一个人往往可能有罪，也可能无罪。这是一次彻底的打击，对利德盖特的伤害和对布尔斯特罗德的伤害一样大。我不会假装说什么是真相。我只希望我们从未听说过布尔斯特罗德或利德盖特的名字。你最好一辈子都是文西家族的人，罗莎蒙德也是如此。布尔斯特罗德夫人没有回答。

‘But you must bear up as well as you can, Harriet. People don’t blame YOU. And I’ll stand by you whatever you make up your mind to do,’ said the brother, with rough but well-meaning affectionateness.
“但是你必须尽力忍耐，哈丽特。人们不会责怪你。无论你决定做什么，我都会支持你。”哥哥语气粗鲁但善意而深情地说。

‘Give me your arm to the carriage, Walter,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode. ‘I feel very weak.’
“沃尔特，把你的手臂伸到马车上，”布尔斯特罗德夫人说。 “我感觉很虚弱。”

And when she got home she was obliged to say to her daughter, ‘I am not well, my dear; I must go and lie down. Attend to your papa. Leave me in quiet. I shall take no dinner.’
当她回到家时，她不得不对女儿说：“亲爱的，我身体不太好；”我必须去躺下。照顾你的爸爸。让我安静一下。我不吃晚饭了。

She locked herself in her room. She needed time to get used to her maimed consciousness, her poor lopped life, before she could walk steadily to the place allotted her. A new searching light had fallen on her husband’s character, and she could not judge him leniently: the twenty years in which she had believed in him and venerated him by virtue of his concealments came back with particulars that made them seem an odious deceit. He had married her with that bad past life hidden behind him, and she had no faith left to protest his innocence of the worst that was imputed to him. Her honest ostentatious nature made the sharing of a merited dishonor as bitter as it could be to any mortal.
她把自己反锁在自己的房间里。她需要时间来适应她残缺的意识，她可怜的被割断的生活，然后才能平稳地走到分配给她的地方。新的审视目光落在了她丈夫的性格上，她不能对他宽容地评判：二十年来，她因他的隐瞒而相信他并尊敬他，但现在却带来了一些细节，使它们看起来像是一种可恶的欺骗。他娶了她，而过去的糟糕生活却隐藏在他的身后，而她没有信心去抗议他的清白，因为他遭受了最糟糕的命运。她诚实、炫耀的本性使得分享应得的耻辱对任何凡人来说都是痛苦的。

But this imperfectly taught woman, whose phrases and habits were an odd patchwork, had a loyal spirit within her. The man whose prosperity she had shared through nearly half a life, and who had unvaryingly cherished her—now that punishment had befallen him it was not possible to her in any sense to forsake him. There is a forsaking which still sits at the same board and lies on the same couch with the forsaken soul, withering it the more by unloving proximity. She knew, when she locked her door, that she should unlock it ready to go down to her unhappy husband and espouse his sorrow, and say of his guilt, I will mourn and not reproach. But she needed time to gather up her strength; she needed to sob out her farewell to all the gladness and pride of her life. When she had resolved to go down, she prepared herself by some little acts which might seem mere folly to a hard onlooker; they were her way of expressing to all spectators visible or invisible that she had begun a new life in which she embraced humiliation. She took off all her ornaments and put on a plain black gown, and instead of wearing her much-adorned cap and large bows of hair, she brushed her hair down and put on a plain bonnet-cap, which made her look suddenly like an early Methodist.
但这个没有受过多少教育的女人，她的言语和习惯都是奇怪的拼凑而成，她内心却有一种忠诚的精神。这个与她共享了近半生荣华富贵、始终不渝地珍惜着她的男人——既然惩罚已经降临到他身上，她无论如何都不可能抛弃他。有一种被遗弃的人，仍然与被遗弃的灵魂坐在同一块木板上，躺在同一张沙发上，因不爱的接近而使其更加枯萎。她知道，当她锁上门时，她应该打开门，准备好去见她不幸的丈夫，表达他的悲伤，并说出他的罪行，我会哀悼，而不是责备。但她需要时间来积蓄力量；她需要用哭泣来告别她一生中所有的快乐和骄傲。当她决定下去时，她做了一些小举动，这些举动在旁观者看来可能只是愚蠢的行为。这是她向所有可见或不可见的观众表达的一种方式，表明她已经开始了接受羞辱的新生活。她脱掉了身上所有的饰物，穿上了一件朴素的黑色长袍，也没有戴那顶华丽的帽子和大蝴蝶结的头发，而是把头发梳下来，戴上一顶朴素的软帽，这让她看起来突然像个早期卫理公会。

Bulstrode, who knew that his wife had been out and had come in saying that she was not well, had spent the time in an agitation equal to hers. He had looked forward to her learning the truth from others, and had acquiesced in that probability, as something easier to him than any confession. But now that he imagined the moment of her knowledge come, he awaited the result in anguish. His daughters had been obliged to consent to leave him, and though he had allowed some food to be brought to him, he had not touched it. He felt himself perishing slowly in unpitied misery. Perhaps he should never see his wife’s face with affection in it again. And if he turned to God there seemed to be no answer but the pressure of retribution.
布尔斯特罗德知道他的妻子出去了，进来说她身体不太好，这段时间他和她一样焦躁不安。他期待着她从别人那里得知真相，并默许了这种可能性，因为对他来说，这比任何坦白都容易。但现在他想象着她知道的那一刻即将到来，他痛苦地等待着结果。他的女儿们不得不同意离开他，尽管他允许给他带来一些食物，但他没有碰它。他感觉自己正在无可怜悯的痛苦中慢慢死去。也许他再也见不到妻子那张充满爱意的脸了。如果他转向上帝，除了报应的压力之外，似乎没有任何答案。

It was eight o’clock in the evening before the door opened and his wife entered. He dared not look up at her. He sat with his eyes bent down, and as she went towards him she thought he looked smaller— he seemed so withered and shrunken. A movement of new compassion and old tenderness went through her like a great wave, and putting one hand on his which rested on the arm of the chair, and the other on his shoulder, she said, solemnly but kindly—
晚上八点了，门开了，他的妻子进来了。他不敢抬头看她。他坐着，眼睛低垂，当她走向他时，她觉得他看起来更小了——他看起来那么枯萎、萎缩。一种新的同情和旧的温柔像一股巨浪一样席卷了她，她把一只手放在他放在椅子扶手上的手上，另一只手放在他的肩膀上，她庄严而友善地说道：

‘Look up, Nicholas.’
“抬头看，尼古拉斯。”

He raised his eyes with a little start and looked at her half amazed for a moment: her pale face, her changed, mourning dress, the trembling about her mouth, all said, ‘I know;’ and her hands and eyes rested gently on him. He burst out crying and they cried together, she sitting at his side. They could not yet speak to each other of the shame which she was bearing with him, or of the acts which had brought it down on them. His confession was silent, and her promise of faithfulness was silent. Open-minded as she was, she nevertheless shrank from the words which would have expressed their mutual consciousness, as she would have shrunk from flakes of fire. She could not say, ‘How much is only slander and false suspicion?’ and he did not say, ‘I am innocent.’
他微微一惊，抬起眼睛，半惊讶地看着她：她苍白的脸，她换过的丧服，她颤抖的嘴唇，都在说：“我知道；”她的手和眼睛轻轻地放在身上。他。他放声大哭，他们一起哭，她坐在他身边。他们还无法互相谈论她对他所承受的羞辱，也无法谈论给他们带来这种耻辱的行为。他的告白是沉默的，她的忠诚的承诺也是沉默的。尽管她心胸开阔，但她还是不敢说出那些表达他们共同意识的话语，就像她害怕火焰一样。她不能说：“有多少只是诽谤和虚假怀疑？”他也不能说：“我是无辜的。”

CHAPTER LXXV
第七十五章

‘Le sentiment de la faussete’ des plaisirs presents, et l’ignorance de la vanite des plaisirs absents, causent l’inconstance.’—PASCAL.
“快乐的情感”呈现，而快乐的“无知”缺席，导致“不稳定性”。——帕斯卡。

Rosamond had a gleam of returning cheerfulness when the house was freed from the threatening figure, and when all the disagreeable creditors were paid. But she was not joyous: her married life had fulfilled none of her hopes, and had been quite spoiled for her imagination. In this brief interval of calm, Lydgate, remembering that he had often been stormy in his hours of perturbation, and mindful of the pain Rosamond had had to bear, was carefully gentle towards her; but he, too, had lost some of his old spirit, and he still felt it necessary to refer to an economical change in their way of living as a matter of course, trying to reconcile her to it gradually, and repressing his anger when she answered by wishing that he would go to live in London. When she did not make this answer, she listened languidly, and wondered what she had that was worth living for. The hard and contemptuous words which had fallen from her husband in his anger had deeply offended that vanity which he had at first called into active enjoyment; and what she regarded as his perverse way of looking at things, kept up a secret repulsion, which made her receive all his tenderness as a poor substitute for the happiness he had failed to give her. They were at a disadvantage with their neighbors, and there was no longer any outlook towards Quallingham—there was no outlook anywhere except in an occasional letter from Will Ladislaw. She had felt stung and disappointed by Will’s resolution to quit Middlemarch, for in spite of what she knew and guessed about his admiration for Dorothea, she secretly cherished the belief that he had, or would necessarily come to have, much more admiration for herself; Rosamond being one of those women who live much in the idea that each man they meet would have preferred them if the preference had not been hopeless. Mrs. Casaubon was all very well; but Will’s interest in her dated before he knew Mrs. Lydgate. Rosamond took his way of talking to herself, which was a mixture of playful fault-finding and hyperbolical gallantry, as the disguise of a deeper feeling; and in his presence she felt that agreeable titillation of vanity and sense of romantic drama which Lydgate’s presence had no longer the magic to create. She even fancied—what will not men and women fancy in these matters?— that Will exaggerated his admiration for Mrs. Casaubon in order to pique herself. In this way poor Rosamond’s brain had been busy before Will’s departure. He would have made, she thought, a much more suitable husband for her than she had found in Lydgate. No notion could have been falser than this, for Rosamond’s discontent in her marriage was due to the conditions of marriage itself, to its demand for self-suppression and tolerance, and not to the nature of her husband; but the easy conception of an unreal Better had a sentimental charm which diverted her ennui. She constructed a little romance which was to vary the flatness of her life: Will Ladislaw was always to be a bachelor and live near her, always to be at her command, and have an understood though never fully expressed passion for her, which would be sending out lambent flames every now and then in interesting scenes. His departure had been a proportionate disappointment, and had sadly increased her weariness of Middlemarch; but at first she had the alternative dream of pleasures in store from her intercourse with the family at Quallingham. Since then the troubles of her married life had deepened, and the absence of other relief encouraged her regretful rumination over that thin romance which she had once fed on. Men and women make sad mistakes about their own symptoms, taking their vague uneasy longings, sometimes for genius, sometimes for religion, and oftener still for a mighty love. Will Ladislaw had written chatty letters, half to her and half to Lydgate, and she had replied: their separation, she felt, was not likely to be final, and the change she now most longed for was that Lydgate should go to live in London; everything would be agreeable in London; and she had set to work with quiet determination to win this result, when there came a sudden, delightful promise which inspirited her.
当房子摆脱了威胁性的人物，当所有令人讨厌的债权人都得到偿还时，罗莎蒙德又恢复了愉快的光芒。但她并不快乐：她的婚姻生活没有实现她的任何希望，而且完全破坏了她的想象力。在这短暂的平静期间，利德盖特想起自己在心烦意乱的时候经常表现出暴风雨，并考虑到罗莎蒙德必须承受的痛苦，所以对她小心翼翼地温柔；但他也失去了一些往日的精神，他仍然觉得有必要把他们的生活方式在经济上的改变视为理所当然的事情，试图逐渐让她接受，当她听到她的声音时，他压抑着自己的愤怒。回答说希望他能去伦敦生活。当她没有做出这个回答时，她懒洋洋地听着，想着自己有什么值得活下去的。她的丈夫在愤怒中说出的严厉而轻蔑的话语，深深地触犯了他起初积极享受的虚荣心。她认为他看待事物的方式不正当，却暗暗厌恶，这使她接受了他所有的温柔，作为他未能给她的幸福的可怜替代品。他们在邻居面前处于不利地位，而且对奎林汉姆不再有任何前景——除了威尔·拉迪斯洛偶尔写来的一封信之外，任何地方都看不到任何前景。 威尔决定退出米德尔马契，她对此感到刺痛和失望，因为尽管她知道并猜测他对多萝西娅的钦佩，但她私下里仍然相信，他对自己有更多的钦佩，或者必然会更加钦佩她自己；而威尔决定离开米德尔马契，她感到刺痛和失望。罗莎蒙德是那些生活在这样一种观念中的女性之一：如果这种偏好不是毫无希望的话，她们遇到的每个男人都会更喜欢她们。卡苏邦夫人一切都很好。但威尔对她的兴趣早在他认识利德盖特夫人之前就已经产生了。罗莎蒙德将他自言自语的方式视为一种更深层次感情的伪装，这种方式混合着顽皮的挑剔和夸张的英勇。在他面前，她感受到了虚荣心的愉悦和浪漫戏剧感，而利德盖特的出现不再具有魔力来创造这种感觉。她甚至认为——在这些事情上，男人和女人不会想到什么？——威尔夸大了他对卡索邦夫人的钦佩，以激怒自己。就这样，在威尔离开之前，可怜的罗莎蒙德的大脑就一直忙碌着。她认为，他会成为一个比她在利德盖特找到的更合适的丈夫。没有比这更错误的想法了，因为罗莎蒙德对婚姻的不满是由于婚姻本身的条件，是由于婚姻对自我压抑和宽容的要求，而不是由于她丈夫的本性；但对不真实的更好的简单构想具有一种感伤的魅力，可以消除她的倦怠。她构建了一段小小的浪漫，改变了她生活的平淡：威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫永远是一个单身汉，住在她附近，永远听从她的指挥，对她有一种理解但从未完全表达的热情，这将是在有趣的场景中时不时地散发出柔和的火焰。 他的离开令人相当失望，而且可悲地增加了她对米德尔马契的厌倦。但起初她有另一个梦想，即与夸林汉姆的家人交往后会得到快乐。从那时起，她的婚姻生活中的麻烦就加深了，而缺乏其他的解脱，更促使她对曾经赖以生存的那段单薄的浪漫感到遗憾和沉思。男人和女人对自己的症状犯了可悲的错误，他们模糊不安的渴望有时是对天才，有时是对宗教，更常见的是对伟大的爱情。威尔·拉迪斯洛写了一封闲聊的信，一半写给她，一半写给利德盖特，她回复说：她觉得他们的分居不太可能是最终的，而她现在最渴望的改变是利德盖特应该去伦敦生活;在伦敦一切都会很顺利。当她开始默默地决心要赢得这个结果时，突然出现的一个令人愉快的承诺激励了她。

It came shortly before the memorable meeting at the town-hall, and was nothing less than a letter from Will Ladislaw to Lydgate, which turned indeed chiefly on his new interest in plans of colonization, but mentioned incidentally, that he might find it necessary to pay a visit to Middlemarch within the next few weeks—a very pleasant necessity, he said, almost as good as holidays to a schoolboy. He hoped there was his old place on the rug, and a great deal of music in store for him. But he was quite uncertain as to the time. While Lydgate was reading the letter to Rosamond, her face looked like a reviving flower—it grew prettier and more blooming. There was nothing unendurable now: the debts were paid, Mr. Ladislaw was coming, and Lydgate would be persuaded to leave Middlemarch and settle in London, which was ‘so different from a provincial town.’
它是在市政厅举行的令人难忘的会议之前不久发出的，无非是威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫写给利德盖特的一封信，这封信确实主要引起了他对殖民计划的新兴趣，但顺便提到，他可能会发现有必要在接下来的几周内去拜访米德尔马奇——这是一件非常令人愉快的事情，他说，几乎就像一个小学生的假期一样好。他希望地毯上还有他的老地方，并为他准备了大量的音乐。但具体时间他却很不确定。当利德盖特读给罗莎蒙德的信时，她的脸看起来像一朵复苏的花朵——变得更漂亮、更盛开。现在已经没有什么难以忍受的了：债务已经还清，拉迪斯瓦夫先生即将到来，利德盖特将被说服离开米德尔马契并在伦敦定居，那里“与一个外省城镇如此不同”。

That was a bright bit of morning. But soon the sky became black over poor Rosamond. The presence of a new gloom in her husband, about which he was entirely reserved towards her—for he dreaded to expose his lacerated feeling to her neutrality and misconception— soon received a painfully strange explanation, alien to all her previous notions of what could affect her happiness. In the new gayety of her spirits, thinking that Lydgate had merely a worse fit of moodiness than usual, causing him to leave her remarks unanswered, and evidently to keep out of her way as much as possible, she chose, a few days after the meeting, and without speaking to him on the subject, to send out notes of invitation for a small evening party, feeling convinced that this was a judicious step, since people seemed to have been keeping aloof from them, and wanted restoring to the old habit of intercourse. When the invitations had been accepted, she would tell Lydgate, and give him a wise admonition as to how a medical man should behave to his neighbors; for Rosamond had the gravest little airs possible about other people’s duties. But all the invitations were declined, and the last answer came into Lydgate’s hands.
那是一个阳光明媚的早晨。但很快可怜的罗莎蒙德上空就变黑了。她丈夫身上出现了一种新的忧郁情绪，对此他对她完全保留——因为他害怕将自己撕裂的感觉暴露给她的中立和误解——很快就得到了一个令人痛苦的奇怪解释，与她之前关于什么会影响她的所有观念都格格不入。她的幸福。在她精神焕发的新的喜悦中，她认为利德盖特只是比平时情绪更糟糕，导致他对她的言论没有做出回应，显然是为了尽可能地避开她，几天后，她选择了这一点。会议，但没有就这个问题与他交谈，而是发出了参加小型晚会的邀请函，并确信这是明智的一步，因为人们似乎一直对他们保持着疏远，并希望恢复旧习惯的交往。当邀请被接受后，她会告诉利德盖特，并给他一个明智的警告，告诉他一个医生应该如何对待邻居；因为罗莎蒙德对其他人的职责表现出极其严肃的态度。但所有的邀请都被拒绝了，最后的答案来到了利德盖特手中。

‘This is Chichely’s scratch. What is he writing to you about?’ said Lydgate, wonderingly, as he handed the note to her. She was obliged to let him see it, and, looking at her severely, he said—
“这是奇切利的划痕。他给你写的信是关于什么的？”利德盖特一边把纸条递给她，一边疑惑地说。她不得不让他看到，他严厉地看着她，说道——

‘Why on earth have you been sending out invitations without telling me, Rosamond? I beg, I insist that you will not invite any one to this house. I suppose you have been inviting others, and they have refused too.’ She said nothing.
“你到底为什么不告诉我就发出邀请函，罗莎蒙德？我求求你，我坚持你不会邀请任何人到这所房子来。我想你已经邀请了其他人，但他们也拒绝了。”她什么也没说。

‘Do you hear me?’ thundered Lydgate.
“你听见我说话了吗？”利德盖特怒吼道。

‘Yes, certainly I hear you,’ said Rosamond, turning her head aside with the movement of a graceful long-necked bird.
“是的，我当然听到了，”罗莎蒙德说道，她像一只优雅的长颈鸟一样把头转向一边。

Lydgate tossed his head without any grace and walked out of the room, feeling himself dangerous. Rosamond’s thought was, that he was getting more and more unbearable—not that there was any new special reason for this peremptoriness His indisposition to tell her anything in which he was sure beforehand that she would not be interested was growing into an unreflecting habit, and she was in ignorance of everything connected with the thousand pounds except that the loan had come from her uncle Bulstrode. Lydgate’s odious humors and their neighbors’ apparent avoidance of them had an unaccountable date for her in their relief from money difficulties. If the invitations had been accepted she would have gone to invite her mamma and the rest, whom she had seen nothing of for several days; and she now put on her bonnet to go and inquire what had become of them all, suddenly feeling as if there were a conspiracy to leave her in isolation with a husband disposed to offend everybody. It was after the dinner hour, and she found her father and mother seated together alone in the drawing-room. They greeted her with sad looks, saying ‘Well, my dear!’ and no more. She had never seen her father look so downcast; and seating herself near him she said—
利德盖特毫无风度地摇摇头，走出房间，感觉自己很危险。罗莎蒙德的想法是，他变得越来越难以忍受——并不是说这种专横有什么新的特殊原因，他不愿意告诉她任何他事先确定她不会感兴趣的事情，这已经成为一种不加思考的习惯，而且她对与这千英镑有关的一切一无所知，只知道贷款是从她叔叔布尔斯特罗德那里借来的。利德盖特的令人厌恶的幽默感和邻居们明显的回避，让她在摆脱经济困难的过程中度过了一段难以解释的日子。如果邀请被接受，她就会去邀请妈妈和其他人，因为她已经好几天没见到他们了。现在，她戴上帽子，要去打听他们所有人的情况，突然觉得好像有一个阴谋，要把她与一个冒犯所有人的丈夫隔离开来。晚餐时间过后，她发现父亲和母亲独自坐在客厅里。他们用悲伤的表情迎接她，说“好吧，亲爱的！”然后就没有再说什么了。她从未见过父亲如此沮丧。她坐在他身边说道——

‘Is there anything the matter, papa?’
“有什么事吗，爸爸？”

He did not answer, but Mrs. Vincy said, ‘Oh, my dear, have you heard nothing? It won’t be long before it reaches you.’
他没有回答，但文西夫人说：“哦，亲爱的，你什么也没听到吗？”用不了多久它就会到达你的手中。

‘Is it anything about Tertius?’ said Rosamond, turning pale. The idea of trouble immediately connected itself with what had been unaccountable to her in him.
“是关于特提乌斯的事吗？”罗莎蒙德脸色苍白地说。麻烦的想法立即与他身上对她不负责任的部分联系在一起。

‘Oh, my dear, yes. To think of your marrying into this trouble. Debt was bad enough, but this will be worse.’
‘哦，亲爱的，是的。想想你的婚姻就陷入了这样的麻烦。债务已经够糟糕的了，但这会更糟糕。

‘Stay, stay, Lucy,’ said Mr. Vincy. ‘Have you heard nothing about your uncle Bulstrode, Rosamond?’
“留下来，留下来，露西，”文西先生说。 “罗莎蒙德，你对你叔叔布尔斯特罗德一无所知吗？”

‘No, papa,’ said the poor thing, feeling as if trouble were not anything she had before experienced, but some invisible power with an iron grasp that made her soul faint within her.
“不，爸爸，”可怜的东西说道，她感觉好像麻烦不是她以前经历过的，而是某种无形的力量，铁一般的抓握，让她的灵魂在她体内昏厥。

Her father told her everything, saying at the end, ‘It’s better for you to know, my dear. I think Lydgate must leave the town. Things have gone against him. I dare say he couldn’t help it. I don’t accuse him of any harm,’ said Mr. Vincy. He had always before been disposed to find the utmost fault with Lydgate.
她的父亲告诉了她一切，最后说道：“亲爱的，你最好知道。”我认为利德盖特必须离开这个城镇。事情对他不利。我敢说他情不自禁。我并没有指控他有任何伤害，”文西先生说。他以前总是倾向于找出利德盖特最大的过错。

The shock to Rosamond was terrible. It seemed to her that no lot could be so cruelly hard as hers to have married a man who had become the centre of infamous suspicions. In many cases it is inevitable that the shame is felt to be the worst part of crime; and it would have required a great deal of disentangling reflection, such as had never entered into Rosamond’s life, for her in these moments to feel that her trouble was less than if her husband had been certainly known to have done something criminal. All the shame seemed to be there. And she had innocently married this man with the belief that he and his family were a glory to her! She showed her usual reticence to her parents, and only said, that if Lydgate had done as she wished he would have left Middlemarch long ago.
罗莎蒙德的震惊是可怕的。在她看来，嫁给一个已经成为臭名昭著的嫌疑中心的男人，没有什么比她的命运更残酷的了。在许多情况下，羞耻感不可避免地被认为是犯罪中最糟糕的部分。在这些时刻，罗莎蒙德需要进行大量的理清思路的反思，这种反思从未进入过她的生活，因为她会觉得自己的麻烦比她的丈夫确实犯了罪要少。所有的耻辱似乎都在那里。她天真地嫁给了这个男人，相信他和他的家人是她的荣耀！她向父母表现出一贯的沉默寡言，只说，如果利德盖特按照她的意愿行事，他早就离开米德尔马契了。

‘She bears it beyond anything,’ said her mother when she was gone.
“她承受的一切超过了一切，”她离开后，她的母亲说道。

‘Ah, thank God!’ said Mr. Vincy, who was much broken down.
“啊，感谢上帝！”文西先生说，他的心已经崩溃了。

But Rosamond went home with a sense of justified repugnance towards her husband. What had he really done—how had he really acted? She did not know. Why had he not told her everything? He did not speak to her on the subject, and of course she could not speak to him. It came into her mind once that she would ask her father to let her go home again; but dwelling on that prospect made it seem utter dreariness to her: a married woman gone back to live with her parents— life seemed to have no meaning for her in such a position: she could not contemplate herself in it.
但罗莎蒙德带着对丈夫的合理反感回到家。他到底做了什么——他到底做了什么？她不知道。他为什么不告诉她一切？他没有和她谈论这个话题，她当然也不能和他说话。她曾经想过要请求父亲让她再次回家；但父亲却没有答应。但一想到这个前景，她就觉得非常凄凉：一个已婚妇女回去和父母住在一起——生活对她来说在这种情况下似乎没有任何意义：她无法在其中思考自己。

The next two days Lydgate observed a change in her, and believed that she had heard the bad news. Would she speak to him about it, or would she go on forever in the silence which seemed to imply that she believed him guilty? We must remember that he was in a morbid state of mind, in which almost all contact was pain. Certainly Rosamond in this case had equal reason to complain of reserve and want of confidence on his part; but in the bitterness of his soul he excused himself;— was he not justified in shrinking from the task of telling her, since now she knew the truth she had no impulse to speak to him? But a deeper-lying consciousness that he was in fault made him restless, and the silence between them became intolerable to him; it was as if they were both adrift on one piece of wreck and looked away from each other.
接下来的两天，利德盖特观察到她的变化，并相信她听到了坏消息。她会告诉他这件事，还是会永远保持沉默，这似乎意味着她相信他有罪？我们必须记住，他的精神状态是病态的，几乎所有的接触都是痛苦。当然，在这种情况下，罗莎蒙德也有同样的理由抱怨他的矜持和缺乏信心。但在他内心的痛苦中，他为自己辩解；——既然她现在知道了真相，她没有冲动和他说话，他逃避告诉她的任务难道不是合理的吗？但更深层次的意识让他感到自己有错，这让他焦躁不安，他们之间的沉默让他无法忍受。就好像他们都在一艘残骸上漂流，互相看向别处。

He thought, ‘I am a fool. Haven’t I given up expecting anything? I have married care, not help.’ And that evening he said—
他想：‘我是个傻瓜。我还没有放弃期待什么吗？我有婚姻关怀，而不是帮助。”那天晚上他说——

‘Rosamond, have you heard anything that distresses you?’
“罗莎蒙德，你有听到什么让你难过的事情吗？”

‘Yes,’ she answered, laying down her work, which she had been carrying on with a languid semi-consciousness, most unlike her usual self.
“是的，”她回答道，放下手中的工作，她一直在半昏迷的状态下继续工作，这与平时的她很不一样。

‘What have you heard?’
“你听到了什么？”

‘Everything, I suppose. Papa told me.’
“我想，一切都是如此。爸爸告诉我的。

‘That people think me disgraced?’
“人们认为我丢脸了？”

‘Yes,’ said Rosamond, faintly, beginning to sew again automatically.
“是的，”罗莎蒙德微弱地说，又开始自动缝纫。

There was silence. Lydgate thought, ‘If she has any trust in me— any notion of what I am, she ought to speak now and say that she does not believe I have deserved disgrace.’
一片寂静。利德盖特想，“如果她对我有任何信任——对我有任何想法，她现在就应该说出来，说她不相信我应该受到羞辱。”

But Rosamond on her side went on moving her fingers languidly. Whatever was to be said on the subject she expected to come from Tertius. What did she know? And if he were innocent of any wrong, why did he not do something to clear himself?
但身旁的罗莎蒙德却继续懒洋洋地活动着手指。无论关于这个问题要说什么，她都希望来自特提乌斯。她知道什么？如果他没有任何错，为什么他不做点什么来澄​​清自己呢？

This silence of hers brought a new rush of gall to that bitter mood in which Lydgate had been saying to himself that nobody believed in him—even Farebrother had not come forward. He had begun to question her with the intent that their conversation should disperse the chill fog which had gathered between them, but he felt his resolution checked by despairing resentment. Even this trouble, like the rest, she seemed to regard as if it were hers alone. He was always to her a being apart, doing what she objected to. He started from his chair with an angry impulse, and thrusting his hands in his pockets, walked up and down the room. There was an underlying consciousness all the while that he should have to master this anger, and tell her everything, and convince her of the facts. For he had almost learned the lesson that he must bend himself to her nature, and that because she came short in her sympathy, he must give the more. Soon he recurred to his intention of opening himself: the occasion must not be lost. If he could bring her to feel with some solemnity that here was a slander which must be met and not run away from, and that the whole trouble had come out of his desperate want of money, it would be a moment for urging powerfully on her that they should be one in the resolve to do with as little money as possible, so that they might weather the bad time and keep themselves independent. He would mention the definite measures which he desired to take, and win her to a willing spirit. He was bound to try this—and what else was there for him to do?
她的沉默给利德盖特的痛苦心情带来了新的痛苦，利德盖特一直在心里说没有人相信他——甚至费雷布拉泽也没有站出来。他开始询问她，目的是希望他们的谈话能驱散聚集在他们之间的冰冷迷雾，但他觉得自己的决心被绝望的怨恨所阻碍。即使是这个麻烦，也和其他麻烦一样，她似乎也认为这是她一个人的麻烦。对她来说，他总是与众不同，做着她反对的事情。他愤怒地从椅子上站了起来，双手插进口袋，在房间里走来走去。他一直有一种潜在的意识，他必须控制住这种愤怒，告诉她一切，让她相信事实。因为他几乎已经吸取了教训，他必须屈服于她的本性，而且由于她缺乏同情心，他必须给予更多。很快他又恢复了开放的意图：不能错过这个机会。如果他能让她严肃地感受到这是一个必须面对而不是逃避的诽谤，整个麻烦都是由于他对金钱的极度渴望而造成的，那么这将是一个强烈敦促她的时刻他们应该下定决心用尽可能少的钱做事，这样他们才能度过难关并保持独立。他会提到他希望采取的明确措施，并赢得她的愿意。他一定要尝试一下——而且他还能做什么呢？

He did not know how long he had been walking uneasily backwards and forwards, but Rosamond felt that it was long, and wished that he would sit down. She too had begun to think this an opportunity for urging on Tertius what he ought to do. Whatever might be the truth about all this misery, there was one dread which asserted itself.
他不知道自己不安地来回走了多久，但罗莎蒙德觉得时间很长，希望他坐下来。她也开始认为这是一个敦促特蒂乌斯应该做什么的机会。无论这一切苦难的真相是什么，总有一种恐惧在蔓延。

Lydgate at last seated himself, not in his usual chair, but in one nearer to Rosamond, leaning aside in it towards her, and looking at her gravely before he reopened the sad subject. He had conquered himself so far, and was about to speak with a sense of solemnity, as on an occasion which was not to be repeated. He had even opened his lips, when Rosamond, letting her hands fall, looked at him and said—
利德盖特终于坐了下来，不是坐在他平常的椅子上，而是坐在离罗莎蒙德较近的一张椅子上，向她倾斜着身子，严肃地看着她，然后才重新开始这个悲伤的话题。到目前为止，他已经战胜了自己，正要以一种庄重的态度讲话，就像在一个不会再重复的场合一样。他甚至张开嘴唇，罗莎蒙德放下手，看着他说——

‘Surely, Tertius—‘
“当然，泰尔蒂斯——”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Surely now at last you have given up the idea of staying in Middlemarch. I cannot go on living here. Let us go to London. Papa, and every one else, says you had better go. Whatever misery I have to put up with, it will be easier away from here.’
“当然，现在你终于放弃了留在米德尔马奇的想法了。”我不能继续住在这里了。我们去伦敦吧。爸爸和其他人都说你们最好走。无论我要忍受什么痛苦，离开这里都会更容易。”

Lydgate felt miserably jarred. Instead of that critical outpouring for which he had prepared himself with effort, here was the old round to be gone through again. He could not bear it. With a quick change of countenance he rose and went out of the room.
利德盖特感到非常震惊。他并没有努力准备好发表批评性的言论，而是旧的一轮要再次经历。他无法忍受。他脸色猛地一变，起身走出了房间。

Perhaps if he had been strong enough to persist in his determination to be the more because she was less, that evening might have had a better issue. If his energy could have borne down that check, he might still have wrought on Rosamond’s vision and will. We cannot be sure that any natures, however inflexible or peculiar, will resist this effect from a more massive being than their own. They may be taken by storm and for the moment converted, becoming part of the soul which enwraps them in the ardor of its movement. But poor Lydgate had a throbbing pain within him, and his energy had fallen short of its task.
或许，如果他足够坚强，坚持自己的决心，因为她的地位较低，所以他要成为更多的人，那么那天晚上的情况可能会更好。如果他的精力能够承受住这一阻力，他可能仍然会对罗莎蒙德的愿景和意志产生影响。我们不能确定任何性质，无论多么顽固或奇特，都会抵抗比其自身更大的存在的这种影响。他们可能会被风暴席卷，暂时转变，成为灵魂的一部分，灵魂将他们包裹在运动的热情中。但可怜的利德盖特内心有一种悸动的疼痛，他的精力已经不足以完成任务。

The beginning of mutual understanding and resolve seemed as far off as ever; nay, it seemed blocked out by the sense of unsuccessful effort. They lived on from day to day with their thoughts still apart, Lydgate going about what work he had in a mood of despair, and Rosamond feeling, with some justification, that he was behaving cruelly. It was of no use to say anything to Tertius; but when Will Ladislaw came, she was determined to tell him everything. In spite of her general reticence, she needed some one who would recognize her wrongs.
相互理解和决心的开始似乎仍然遥不可及。不仅如此，它似乎被努力不成功的感觉所阻挡。他们日复一日地生活着，但他们的思想仍然相距甚远，利德盖特在绝望的心情中谈论他的工作，而罗莎蒙德则有理由认为他的行为很残忍。对特提乌斯说什么也没有用。但当威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫到来时，她决心告诉他一切。尽管她一向沉默寡言，但她需要一个能够认识到她的错误的人。

CHAPTER LXXVI
第六章

‘To mercy, pity, peace, and love
‘怜悯、怜悯、和平和爱

All pray in their distress,
所有人都在苦难中祈祷，

And to these virtues of delight,
对于这些令人愉悦的美德，

Return their thankfulness.
回报他们的感激之情。

For Mercy has a human heart,
因为慈悲有一颗人性的心，

Pity a human face;
怜惜一张人脸；

And Love, the human form divine;
还有爱，神圣的人类形态；

And Peace, the human dress.
还有和平，人类的服饰。

—WILLIAM BLAKE: Songs of Innocence.
——威廉·布莱克：《纯真之歌》。

Some days later, Lydgate was riding to Lowick Manor, in consequence of a summons from Dorothea. The summons had not been unexpected, since it had followed a letter from Mr. Bulstrode, in which he stated that he had resumed his arrangements for quitting Middlemarch, and must remind Lydgate of his previous communications about the Hospital, to the purport of which he still adhered. It had been his duty, before taking further steps, to reopen the subject with Mrs. Casaubon, who now wished, as before, to discuss the question with Lydgate. ‘Your views may possibly have undergone some change,’ wrote Mr. Bulstrode; ‘but, in that case also, it is desirable that you should lay them before her.’
几天后，利德盖特应多萝西娅的召唤，骑马前往洛威克庄园。这次传唤并不出人意料，因为布尔斯特罗德先生在信中表示，他已恢复离开米德尔马契的安排，并且必须提醒利德盖特他之前关于医院的通讯，其目的是仍然坚持。在采取进一步措施之前，他有责任与卡苏邦夫人重新讨论这个话题，卡苏邦夫人现在希望像以前一样与利德盖特讨论这个问题。 “你的观点可能发生了一些变化，”布尔斯特罗德先生写道。 “但是，在这种情况下，你最好还是把它们放在她面前。”

Dorothea awaited his arrival with eager interest. Though, in deference to her masculine advisers, she had refrained from what Sir James had called ‘interfering in this Bulstrode business,’ the hardship of Lydgate’s position was continually in her mind, and when Bulstrode applied to her again about the hospital, she felt that the opportunity was come to her which she had been hindered from hastening. In her luxurious home, wandering under the boughs of her own great trees, her thought was going out over the lot of others, and her emotions were imprisoned. The idea of some active good within her reach, ‘haunted her like a passion,’ and another’s need having once come to her as a distinct image, preoccupied her desire with the yearning to give relief, and made her own ease tasteless. She was full of confident hope about this interview with Lydgate, never heeding what was said of his personal reserve; never heeding that she was a very young woman. Nothing could have seemed more irrelevant to Dorothea than insistence on her youth and sex when she was moved to show her human fellowship.
多萝西娅热切地等待着他的到来。虽然，为了尊重她的男性顾问，她没有进行詹姆斯爵士所谓的“干涉布尔斯特罗德的生意”，但利德盖特处境的艰辛一直在她的脑海里，当布尔斯特罗德再次向她申请有关医院的事情时，她感到机会已经降临到她身上，但她却一直受阻而未能加速。在她豪华的家中，在她自己的大树的树枝下徘徊，她的思想超越了其他人，她的情感被囚禁。某种触手可及的积极善意的想法“像一种激情一样困扰着她”，而另一个人的需要曾经以清晰的形象出现在她的脑海中，让她全神贯注于渴望缓解的渴望，让她自己的安逸变得索然无味。她对这次利德盖特的采访充满了信心，从来没有理会他个人的矜持。从来没有注意到她是一个非常年轻的女人。当多萝西娅被感动去表现她的人类友谊时，没有什么比坚持自己的青春和性更无关紧要的了。

As she sat waiting in the library, she could do nothing but live through again all the past scenes which had brought Lydgate into her memories. They all owed their significance to her marriage and its troubles— but no; there were two occasions in which the image of Lydgate had come painfully in connection with his wife and some one else. The pain had been allayed for Dorothea, but it had left in her an awakened conjecture as to what Lydgate’s marriage might be to him, a susceptibility to the slightest hint about Mrs. Lydgate. These thoughts were like a drama to her, and made her eyes bright, and gave an attitude of suspense to her whole frame, though she was only looking out from the brown library on to the turf and the bright green buds which stood in relief against the dark evergreens.
当她坐在图书馆里等待时，她什么也做不了，只能再次回忆起那些让利德盖特进入她记忆中的过去的场景。他们的重要性都归功于她的婚姻及其麻烦——但事实并非如此；有两次，利德盖特的形象与他的妻子和其他人联系在一起，令人痛苦。多萝西娅的痛苦已经减轻了，但这却让她对利德盖特的婚姻对他来说可能意味着什么产生了一种清醒的猜想，对利德盖特夫人的哪怕一丝丝暗示都很敏感。这些想法对她来说就像一场戏剧，让她的眼睛明亮起来，给她的整个框架带来一种悬念的态度，尽管她只是从棕色的图书馆向外望去，草地和明亮的绿色花蕾矗立在背景上。深色常青树。

When Lydgate came in, she was almost shocked at the change in his face, which was strikingly perceptible to her who had not seen him for two months. It was not the change of emaciation, but that effect which even young faces will very soon show from the persistent presence of resentment and despondency. Her cordial look, when she put out her hand to him, softened his expression, but only with melancholy.
当利德盖特进来时，她几乎被他脸上的变化震惊了，这对于两个月没见到他的她来说是惊人的。这并不是憔悴的变化，而是即使是年轻的面孔也很快就会因持续存在的怨恨和沮丧而表现出来的效果。当她向他伸出手时，她亲切的眼神让他的表情变得柔和，但只是带着忧郁。

‘I have wished very much to see you for a long while, Mr. Lydgate,’ said Dorothea when they were seated opposite each other; ‘but I put off asking you to come until Mr. Bulstrode applied to me again about the Hospital. I know that the advantage of keeping the management of it separate from that of the Infirmary depends on you, or, at least, on the good which you are encouraged to hope for from having it under your control. And I am sure you will not refuse to tell me exactly what you think.’
“我很想见到你很久了，利德盖特先生，”当他们相对而坐时，多萝西娅说道。 “但我推迟邀请你来，直到布尔斯特罗德先生再次向我申请有关医院的事情。我知道将其管理与医务室分开的好处取决于你，或者至少取决于你被鼓励希望通过控制它而获得的好处。我相信你不会拒绝准确地告诉我你的想法。

‘You want to decide whether you should give a generous support to the Hospital,’ said Lydgate. ‘I cannot conscientiously advise you to do it in dependence on any activity of mine. I may be obliged to leave the town.’
“你想决定是否应该向医院提供慷慨的支持，”利德盖特说。 “我不能认真地建议你根据我的任何活动来这样做。我可能不得不离开这个城镇。

He spoke curtly, feeling the ache of despair as to his being able to carry out any purpose that Rosamond had set her mind against.
他说话简短，感到绝望的痛苦，因为他无法实现罗莎蒙德反对的任何目的。

‘Not because there is no one to believe in you?’ said Dorothea, pouring out her words in clearness from a full heart. ‘I know the unhappy mistakes about you. I knew them from the first moment to be mistakes. You have never done anything vile. You would not do anything dishonorable.’
“不是因为没有人相信你吗？”多萝西娅说道，她的心底里充满了清晰的话语。 “我知道你犯下的令人不快的错误。我从一开始就知道它们是错误的。你从来没有做过任何卑鄙的事。你不会做任何不名誉的事情。

It was the first assurance of belief in him that had fallen on Lydgate’s ears. He drew a deep breath, and said, ‘Thank you.’ He could say no more: it was something very new and strange in his life that these few words of trust from a woman should be so much to him.
这是利德盖特第一次听到对他的信任保证。他深吸了一口气，说道：“谢谢。”他再也说不出话了：一个女人说出的这几句信任的话对他来说是如此重要，这对他来说是一件非常新鲜和奇怪的事情。

‘I beseech you to tell me how everything was,’ said Dorothea, fearlessly. ‘I am sure that the truth would clear you.’
“我恳求你告诉我一切是怎么回事，”多萝西娅无所畏惧地说。 “我相信真相会让你明白。”

Lydgate started up from his chair and went towards the window, forgetting where he was. He had so often gone over in his mind the possibility of explaining everything without aggravating appearances that would tell, perhaps unfairly, against Bulstrode, and had so often decided against it—he had so often said to himself that his assertions would not change people’s impressions— that Dorothea’s words sounded like a temptation to do something which in his soberness he had pronounced to be unreasonable.
利德盖特从椅子上站起来，走向窗户，忘记了自己身在何处。他经常在心里思考是否有可能解释一切，而又不引起恼人的外表，这可能会不公平地对布尔斯特罗德不利，但他经常决定不这样做——他经常对自己说，他的主张不会改变人们的印象。 ——多萝西娅的话听起来像是一种诱惑，让他去做一些他在清醒时认为不合理的事情。

‘Tell me, pray,’ said Dorothea, with simple earnestness; ‘then we can consult together. It is wicked to let people think evil of any one falsely, when it can be hindered.’
“请告诉我，”多萝西娅语气真诚地说。 ‘那我们可以一起商量一下。在可以阻止的情况下，让人们错误地认为任何人是邪恶的，这是邪恶的。”

Lydgate turned, remembering where he was, and saw Dorothea’s face looking up at him with a sweet trustful gravity. The presence of a noble nature, generous in its wishes, ardent in its charity, changes the lights for us: we begin to see things again in their larger, quieter masses, and to believe that we too can be seen and judged in the wholeness of our character. That influence was beginning to act on Lydgate, who had for many days been seeing all life as one who is dragged and struggling amid the throng. He sat down again, and felt that he was recovering his old self in the consciousness that he was with one who believed in it.
利德盖特转过身来，记起了自己身在何处，看到多萝西娅的脸抬起头看着他，脸上带着一种甜蜜的、信任的严肃。崇高的本性的存在，慷慨的愿望，热心的慈善，改变了我们的光明：我们开始再次以更大、更安静的方式看待事物，并相信我们也可以在整体中被看到和判断我们的性格。这种影响开始作用在利德盖特身上，他多年来一直将所有生命视为在人群中被拖拽和挣扎的人。他又坐下来，感觉自己正在恢复原来的自我，意识到自己和一个相信这一点的人在一起。

‘I don’t want,’ he said, ‘to bear hard on Bulstrode, who has lent me money of which I was in need—though I would rather have gone without it now. He is hunted down and miserable, and has only a poor thread of life in him. But I should like to tell you everything. It will be a comfort to me to speak where belief has gone beforehand, and where I shall not seem to be offering assertions of my own honesty. You will feel what is fair to another, as you feel what is fair to me.’
“我不想，”他说，“对布尔斯特罗德施加严厉的压力，他借给了我我需要的钱——尽管我现在宁愿不借钱。他被追杀，处境悲惨，只剩下一丝可怜的生命线。但我想告诉你一切。对我来说，在信仰已经消失的地方说话，以及我似乎不会对自己的诚实提出断言的地方，将是一种安慰。你会感受到对他人公平，就像你感受到对我公平一样。”

‘Do trust me,’ said Dorothea; ‘I will not repeat anything without your leave. But at the very least, I could say that you have made all the circumstances clear to me, and that I know you are not in any way guilty. Mr. Farebrother would believe me, and my uncle, and Sir James Chettam. Nay, there are persons in Middlemarch to whom I could go; although they don’t know much of me, they would believe me. They would know that I could have no other motive than truth and justice. I would take any pains to clear you. I have very little to do. There is nothing better that I can do in the world.’
“请相信我，”多萝西娅说。 ‘没有你的允许，我不会重复任何事情。但至少，我可以说，你已经把所有的情况都给我说清楚了，我知道你没有任何罪责。费勒布拉泽先生会相信我、我的叔叔和詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士。不，我可以去米德尔马契去找一些人。虽然他们对我了解不多，但他们会相信我。他们会知道我除了真理和正义之外没有其他动机。我会不遗余力地清理你。我没什么可做的。世界上没有什么比我能做的更好的了。

Dorothea’s voice, as she made this childlike picture of what she would do, might have been almost taken as a proof that she could do it effectively. The searching tenderness of her woman’s tones seemed made for a defence against ready accusers. Lydgate did not stay to think that she was Quixotic: he gave himself up, for the first time in his life, to the exquisite sense of leaning entirely on a generous sympathy, without any check of proud reserve. And he told her everything, from the time when, under the pressure of his difficulties, he unwillingly made his first application to Bulstrode; gradually, in the relief of speaking, getting into a more thorough utterance of what had gone on in his mind— entering fully into the fact that his treatment of the patient was opposed to the dominant practice, into his doubts at the last, his ideal of medical duty, and his uneasy consciousness that the acceptance of the money had made some difference in his private inclination and professional behavior, though not in his fulfilment of any publicly recognized obligation.
当多萝西娅以孩子气的方式描绘她将要做的事情时，她的声音几乎可以被视为她可以有效地做到这一点的证据。她女人的语气中透着温柔，似乎是为了对准备好的指控者进行辩护。利德盖特并没有认为她是堂吉诃德式的：他有生以来第一次完全依赖慷慨的同情心，没有任何骄傲的矜持。他告诉了她一切，从他在困难的压力下，不情愿地向布尔斯特罗德提出第一次申请开始；渐渐地，在讲话的轻松中，他更彻底地表达了他心里所想的事情——完全进入了他对病人的治疗与主流做法相反的事实，进入了他最后的怀疑，他的理想他意识到接受这笔钱对他的私人倾向和职业行为产生了一些影响，但并没有影响他履行任何公众认可的义务。

‘It has come to my knowledge since,’ he added, ‘that Hawley sent some one to examine the housekeeper at Stone Court, and she said that she gave the patient all the opium in the phial I left, as well as a good deal of brandy. But that would not have been opposed to ordinary prescriptions, even of first-rate men. The suspicions against me had no hold there: they are grounded on the knowledge that I took money, that Bulstrode had strong motives for wishing the man to die, and that he gave me the money as a bribe to concur in some malpractices or other against the patient—that in any case I accepted a bribe to hold my tongue. They are just the suspicions that cling the most obstinately, because they lie in people’s inclination and can never be disproved. How my orders came to be disobeyed is a question to which I don’t know the answer. It is still possible that Bulstrode was innocent of any criminal intention—even possible that he had nothing to do with the disobedience, and merely abstained from mentioning it. But all that has nothing to do with the public belief. It is one of those cases on which a man is condemned on the ground of his character— it is believed that he has committed a crime in some undefined way, because he had the motive for doing it; and Bulstrode’s character has enveloped me, because I took his money. I am simply blighted— like a damaged ear of corn—the business is done and can’t be undone.’
“据我所知，”他补充道，“霍利派人去检查石阁的管家，她说她把我留下的小瓶里的所有鸦片都给了病人，还有一大堆鸦片。”白兰地。但这并不反对普通的处方，即使是一流的男人。对我的怀疑并不成立：他们知道我拿了钱，布尔斯特罗德有强烈的动机希望那个人死，他给我钱作为贿赂，以配合某些不法行为或其他反对行为。病人——无论如何，我接受了贿赂以保持沉默。它们只是最顽固的怀疑，因为它们存在于人们的倾向之中，永远无法被反驳。我的命令怎么会被违背，这是一个我不知道答案的问题。布尔斯特罗德仍然有可能没有任何犯罪意图，甚至有可能他与不服从行为无关，只是没有提及此事。但这一切与公众信仰无关。这是一个人因其性格而受到谴责的案件之一——人们相信他以某种不确定的方式犯下了罪行，因为他有这样做的动机；布尔斯特罗德的性格笼罩着我，因为我拿了他的钱。我只是被毁了——就像受损的玉米穗一样——事情已经完成了，无法挽回。

‘Oh, it is hard!’ said Dorothea. ‘I understand the difficulty there is in your vindicating yourself. And that all this should have come to you who had meant to lead a higher life than the common, and to find out better ways—I cannot bear to rest in this as unchangeable. I know you meant that. I remember what you said to me when you first spoke to me about the hospital. There is no sorrow I have thought more about than that—to love what is great, and try to reach it, and yet to fail.’
“哦，这很难！”多萝西娅说。 “我理解你为自己辩护是多么困难。而这一切本该降临到你身上，因为你本想过上比普通人更高的生活，并找到更好的方法——我不忍心认为这是一成不变的。我知道你是这个意思。我记得你第一次跟我谈论医院时对我说的话。没有比这更让我想到的悲伤了——热爱伟大的事物，并试图实现它，但却失败了。”

‘Yes,’ said Lydgate, feeling that here he had found room for the full meaning of his grief. ‘I had some ambition. I meant everything to be different with me. I thought I had more strength and mastery. But the most terrible obstacles are such as nobody can see except oneself.’
“是的，”利德盖特说，他觉得在这里他找到了充分表达悲伤的空间。 “我有一些野心。我的意思是一切对我来说都是不同的。我以为我有更多的力量和掌握。但最可怕的障碍是除了你自己之外没有人能看到的障碍。”

‘Suppose,’ said Dorothea, meditatively,—‘suppose we kept on the Hospital according to the present plan, and you stayed here though only with the friendship and support of a few, the evil feeling towards you would gradually die out; there would come opportunities in which people would be forced to acknowledge that they had been unjust to you, because they would see that your purposes were pure. You may still win a great fame like the Louis and Laennec I have heard you speak of, and we shall all be proud of you,’ she ended, with a smile.
“假设，”多萝西娅若有所思地说，“假设我们按照目前的计划继续留在医院，而你留在这里，尽管只有少数人的友谊和支持，对你的恶感会逐渐消失；人们会有机会被迫承认他们对你不公正，因为他们会看到你的目的是纯粹的。你可能仍然会像我听你谈到的路易斯和莱内克那样赢得巨大的声誉，我们都会为你感到骄傲，”她微笑着结束道。

‘That might do if I had my old trust in myself,’ said Lydgate, mournfully. ‘Nothing galls me more than the notion of turning round and running away before this slander, leaving it unchecked behind me. Still, I can’t ask any one to put a great deal of money into a plan which depends on me.’
“如果我还像以前那样相信自己的话，也许就可以了。”利德盖特悲伤地说。 “没有什么比在这种诽谤面前转身逃跑、让它不受控制地抛在身后更让我感到恼火的了。尽管如此，我不能要求任何人为一项取决于我的计划投入大量资金。

‘It would be quite worth my while,’ said Dorothea, simply. ‘Only think. I am very uncomfortable with my money, because they tell me I have too little for any great scheme of the sort I like best, and yet I have too much. I don’t know what to do. I have seven hundred a-year of my own fortune, and nineteen hundred a-year that Mr. Casaubon left me, and between three and four thousand of ready money in the bank. I wished to raise money and pay it off gradually out of my income which I don’t want, to buy land with and found a village which should be a school of industry; but Sir James and my uncle have convinced me that the risk would be too great. So you see that what I should most rejoice at would be to have something good to do with my money: I should like it to make other people’s lives better to them. It makes me very uneasy—coming all to me who don’t want it.’
“这绝对值得我花时间，”多萝西娅简单地说。 '只想到。我对自己的钱感到非常不舒服，因为他们告诉我，对于我最喜欢的那种伟大计划来说，我的钱太少了，但我的钱又太多了。我不知道该怎么办。我自己的财产每年有七百，卡苏邦先生留给我的每年一千九百，银行里还有三到四千的现钱。我想筹集资金，从我不想要的收入中逐步还清，买地，建立一个村庄，应该是一个工业学校；但詹姆斯爵士和我叔叔让我相信风险太大了。所以你看，我最应该高兴的是用我的钱做一些好事：我应该喜欢它让别人的生活变得更好。这让我非常不安——所有不想要的人都来找我。

A smile broke through the gloom of Lydgate’s face. The childlike grave-eyed earnestness with which Dorothea said all this was irresistible—blent into an adorable whale with her ready understanding of high experience. (Of lower experience such as plays a great part in the world, poor Mrs. Casaubon had a very blurred shortsighted knowledge, little helped by her imagination.) But she took the smile as encouragement of her plan.
利德盖特脸上的阴郁中露出了一丝微笑。多萝西娅说这一切时所表现出的孩子般的严肃眼神和真诚是不可抗拒的——与她对丰富经验的理解融为一体，融入了一只可爱的鲸鱼之中。 （可怜的卡苏朋夫人的经验较低，在世界上扮演着重要的角色，她的知识非常模糊，目光短浅，她的想象力几乎没有帮助。） 但她把这个微笑视为对她计划的鼓励。

‘I think you see now that you spoke too scrupulously,’ she said, in a tone of persuasion. ‘The hospital would be one good; and making your life quite whole and well again would be another.’
“我想你现在明白了，你说话太谨慎了，”她用劝说的语气说道。 “医院是一件好事；让你的生活变得完整、健康又是另一回事。

Lydgate’s smile had died away. ‘You have the goodness as well as the money to do all that; if it could be done,’ he said. ‘But—‘
利德盖特的笑容消失了。 “你有能力也有钱来做这一切；如果可以的话，”他说。 '但-'

He hesitated a little while, looking vaguely towards the window; and she sat in silent expectation. At last he turned towards her and said impetuously—
他犹豫了一会儿，茫然地看向窗外；她静静地坐着等待。最后他转向她，语气急躁地说——

‘Why should I not tell you?—you know what sort of bond marriage is. You will understand everything.’
“我为什么不告诉你呢？——你知道什么是债券婚姻。你会明白一切的。

Dorothea felt her heart beginning to beat faster. Had he that sorrow too? But she feared to say any word, and he went on immediately.
多萝西娅感觉自己的心跳开始加快。他也有这样的悲伤吗？但她不敢说任何一句话，他立即继续说道。

‘It is impossible for me now to do anything—to take any step without considering my wife’s happiness. The thing that I might like to do if I were alone, is become impossible to me. I can’t see her miserable. She married me without knowing what she was going into, and it might have been better for her if she had not married me.’
“现在我不可能做任何事情——采取任何步骤而不考虑我妻子的幸福。如果我独自一人的话，我可能想做的事情对我来说变得不可能了。我看不到她难过。她在不知道自己会发生什么的情况下嫁给了我，如果她不嫁给我可能对她更好。

‘I know, I know—you could not give her pain, if you were not obliged to do it,’ said Dorothea, with keen memory of her own life.
“我知道，我知道——如果你没有义务，你就不能让她痛苦，”多萝西娅说道，她对自己的生活有着敏锐的记忆。

‘And she has set her mind against staying. She wishes to go. The troubles she has had here have wearied her,’ said Lydgate, breaking off again, lest he should say too much.
‘而且她已经决定不留下来了。她想去。她在这里遇到的麻烦让她感到厌倦。”利德盖特说，又打断了，以免说得太多。

‘But when she saw the good that might come of staying—‘said Dorothea, remonstrantly, looking at Lydgate as if he had forgotten the reasons which had just been considered. He did not speak immediately.
“但是当她看到留下来可能带来的好处时——”多萝西娅看着利德盖特，抗议地说，仿佛他已经忘记了刚才考虑的原因。他没有立即说话。

‘She would not see it,’ he said at last, curtly, feeling at first that this statement must do without explanation. ‘And, indeed, I have lost all spirit about carrying on my life here.’ He paused a moment and then, following the impulse to let Dorothea see deeper into the difficulty of his life, he said, ‘The fact is, this trouble has come upon her confusedly. We have not been able to speak to each other about it. I am not sure what is in her mind about it: she may fear that I have really done something base. It is my fault; I ought to be more open. But I have been suffering cruelly.’
“她不会看到的，”他最后简短地说，一开始觉得这句话肯定不需要解释。 “事实上，我已经失去了继续在这里生活的勇气。”他停顿了一会儿，然后，为了让多萝西娅更深入地了解他生活的困难，他说：“事实是，这个麻烦迷茫地来到她身边。我们无法互相谈论此事。我不知道她心里是怎么想的：她可能担心我真的做了一些卑鄙的事。这是我的错;我应该更加开放。但我一直在遭受残酷的痛苦。

‘May I go and see her?’ said Dorothea, eagerly. ‘Would she accept my sympathy? I would tell her that you have not been blamable before any one’s judgment but your own. I would tell her that you shall be cleared in every fair mind. I would cheer her heart. Will you ask her if I may go to see her? I did see her once.’
“我可以去看看她吗？”多萝西娅急切地说。 ‘她会接受我的同情吗？我会告诉她，在任何人的判断面前，除了你自己之外，你没有任何罪责。我会告诉她，每一个公正的头脑都会清白你。我会让她的心高兴起来。你能问她我是否可以去看她吗？我确实见过她一次。

‘I am sure you may,’ said Lydgate, seizing the proposition with some hope. ‘She would feel honored—cheered, I think, by the proof that you at least have some respect for me. I will not speak to her about your coming—that she may not connect it with my wishes at all. I know very well that I ought not to have left anything to be told her by others, but—‘
“我相信你会的，”利德盖特满怀希望地抓住了这个提议。 “她会感到荣幸——我想，因为你至少对我有一些尊重，她会感到高兴。”我不会跟她谈论你的到来——免得她根本不会把这和我的愿望联系起来。我很清楚我不应该留下任何事情让别人告诉她，但是——”

He broke off, and there was a moment’s silence. Dorothea refrained from saying what was in her mind—how well she knew that there might be invisible barriers to speech between husband and wife. This was a point on which even sympathy might make a wound. She returned to the more outward aspect of Lydgate’s position, saying cheerfully—
他突然停了下来，现场一阵沉默。多萝西娅没有说出心里的想法——她多么清楚夫妻之间可能存在着无形的言语障碍。在这一点上，即使是同情也可能造成伤害。她回到了利德盖特立场的更外在的方面，高兴地说——

‘And if Mrs. Lydgate knew that there were friends who would believe in you and support you, she might then be glad that you should stay in your place and recover your hopes—and do what you meant to do. Perhaps then you would see that it was right to agree with what I proposed about your continuing at the Hospital. Surely you would, if you still have faith in it as a means of making your knowledge useful?’
“如果利德盖特夫人知道有朋友会相信你并支持你，她可能会很高兴你应该留在自己的位置上，恢复你的希望，做你想做的事。”也许那时你会发现同意我关于你继续留在医院的建议是正确的。如果你仍然相信它是使你的知识变得有用的一种手段，你当然会这么做吗？

Lydgate did not answer, and she saw that he was debating with himself.
利德盖特没有回答，她看出他正在自言自语。

‘You need not decide immediately,’ she said, gently. ‘A few days hence it will be early enough for me to send my answer to Mr. Bulstrode.’
“你不必立即决定，”她温和地说。 “几天后，我就可以将答复发送给布尔斯特罗德先生了。”

Lydgate still waited, but at last turned to speak in his most decisive tones.
利德盖特仍在等待，但最后转身用他最果断的语气说话。

‘No; I prefer that there should be no interval left for wavering. I am no longer sure enough of myself—I mean of what it would be possible for me to do under the changed circumstances of my life. It would be dishonorable to let others engage themselves to anything serious in dependence on me. I might be obliged to go away after all; I see little chance of anything else. The whole thing is too problematic; I cannot consent to be the cause of your goodness being wasted. No—let the new Hospital be joined with the old Infirmary, and everything go on as it might have done if I had never come. I have kept a valuable register since I have been there; I shall send it to a man who will make use of it,’ he ended bitterly. ‘I can think of nothing for a long while but getting an income.’
'不;我宁愿不留任何动摇的时间。我对自己不再有足够的信心——我的意思是，在生活环境发生变化后，我能做什么。让别人依赖我去做任何严肃的事情是不光彩的。我可能最终还是不得不离开；我看不出有什么其他的机会。整个事情太有问题了；我不能同意成为你的善良被浪费的原因。不——让新医院和旧医务室合并吧，一切都会像我从未来过一样继续下去。自从我到达那里以来，我一直保存着一份有价值的登记册；我会把它送给一个愿意使用它的人。”他痛苦地结束道。 “在很长一段时间里，除了获得收入之外，我什么都不想。”

‘It hurts me very much to hear you speak so hopelessly,’ said Dorothea. ‘It would be a happiness to your friends, who believe in your future, in your power to do great things, if you would let them save you from that. Think how much money I have; it would be like taking a burthen from me if you took some of it every year till you got free from this fettering want of income. Why should not people do these things? It is so difficult to make shares at all even. This is one way.’
“听到你如此绝望地说话，我非常伤心，”多萝西娅说。 “如果你让朋友们把你从困境中拯救出来，那对你的朋友来说将是一种幸福，他们相信你的未来，相信你有能力做伟大的事情。”想想我有多少钱；如果你每年都承担一些，直到你摆脱这种收入匮乏的束缚，那就像是从我身上卸下了负担。为什么人们不应该做这些事情？甚至连股票都很难。这是一种方法。

‘God bless you, Mrs. Casaubon!’ said Lydgate, rising as if with the same impulse that made his words energetic, and resting his arm on the back of the great leather chair he had been sitting in. ‘It is good that you should have such feelings. But I am not the man who ought to allow himself to benefit by them. I have not given guarantees enough. I must not at least sink into the degradation of being pensioned for work that I never achieved. It is very clear to me that I must not count on anything else than getting away from Middlemarch as soon as I can manage it. I should not be able for a long while, at the very best, to get an income here, and— and it is easier to make necessary changes in a new place. I must do as other men do, and think what will please the world and bring in money; look for a little opening in the London crowd, and push myself; set up in a watering-place, or go to some southern town where there are plenty of idle English, and get myself puffed,— that is the sort of shell I must creep into and try to keep my soul alive in.’
“上帝保佑你，卡苏朋夫人！”利德盖特说着，站了起来，仿佛他的言语充满活力，他的手臂搁在他刚才坐过的那张大皮椅的靠背上。应该有这样的感受。但我不是那个应该让自己从中受益的人。我没有给予足够的保证。我至少不能因为自己从未完成的工作而领取养老金而陷入堕落的境地。我很清楚，除了尽快离开米德尔马契之外，我不能指望任何其他事情。在很长一段时间内，我充其量也无法在这里获得收入，而且——而且在一个新的地方更容易做出必要的改变。我必须像其他人一样，思考什么可以取悦世界并带来金钱；在伦敦的人群中寻找一点空档，然后鞭策自己；在水边安顿下来，或者去南方某个有很多闲聊英语的小镇，让自己气喘吁吁——这就是我必须爬进去并努力让我的灵魂活着的那种外壳。

‘Now that is not brave,’ said Dorothea,—‘to give up the fight.’
“现在放弃战斗并不勇敢，”多萝西娅说道。

‘No, it is not brave,’ said Lydgate, ‘but if a man is afraid of creeping paralysis?’ Then, in another tone, ‘Yet you have made a great difference in my courage by believing in me. Everything seems more bearable since I have talked to you; and if you can clear me in a few other minds, especially in Farebrother’s, I shall be deeply grateful. The point I wish you not to mention is the fact of disobedience to my orders. That would soon get distorted. After all, there is no evidence for me but people’s opinion of me beforehand. You can only repeat my own report of myself.’
“不，这并不勇敢，”利德盖特说，“但是如果一个人害怕逐渐瘫痪呢？”然后，用另一种语气说道：“但是你相信我，这让我的勇气大为改观。”自从我和你谈过之后，一切似乎都变得可以忍受了；如果你能帮我清除其他一些想法，特别是费雷布拉泽的想法，我将不胜感激。我希望你不要提及的一点是不服从我的命令的事实。这很快就会被扭曲。毕竟，我没有任何证据，只有人们事先对我的看法。你只能重复我自己的报告。

‘Mr. Farebrother will believe—others will believe,’ said Dorothea. ‘I can say of you what will make it stupidity to suppose that you would be bribed to do a wickedness.’
'先生。费雷兄弟会相信——其他人也会相信，”多萝西娅说。 “我可以说，如果你认为你会被贿赂去干坏事，那你就会变得愚蠢。”

‘I don’t know,’ said Lydgate, with something like a groan in his voice. ‘I have not taken a bribe yet. But there is a pale shade of bribery which is sometimes called prosperity. You will do me another great kindness, then, and come to see my wife?’
“我不知道，”利德盖特说道，声音里带着些许呻吟。 “我还没有受过贿赂。但也有一种淡淡的贿赂，有时被称为繁荣。那么，你会再帮我一个大好事，来看我的妻子吗？

‘Yes, I will. I remember how pretty she is,’ said Dorothea, into whose mind every impression about Rosamond had cut deep. ‘I hope she will like me.’
'是的，我会。 “我记得她有多漂亮。”多萝西娅说道，她对罗莎蒙德的每一个印象都深深地印在她的脑海里。 “我希望她会喜欢我。”

As Lydgate rode away, he thought, ‘This young creature has a heart large enough for the Virgin Mary. She evidently thinks nothing of her own future, and would pledge away half her income at once, as if she wanted nothing for herself but a chair to sit in from which she can look down with those clear eyes at the poor mortals who pray to her. She seems to have what I never saw in any woman before— a fountain of friendship towards men—a man can make a friend of her. Casaubon must have raised some heroic hallucination in her. I wonder if she could have any other sort of passion for a man? Ladislaw?—there was certainly an unusual feeling between them. And Casaubon must have had a notion of it. Well—her love might help a man more than her money.’
当利德盖特骑马离开时，他想：“这个年轻的生物有一颗足以容纳圣母玛利亚的心。”显然，她对自己的未来毫不在意，愿意立即捐出一半的收入，仿佛她除了一张椅子之外什么都不想要，坐在椅子上，她可以用清澈的眼睛俯视那些向她祈祷的可怜的凡人。 。她似乎拥有我以前在任何女人身上从未见过的东西——对男人的友谊源泉——男人可以和她成为朋友。卡索邦一定让她产生了某种英雄的幻觉。我想知道她是否还能对一个男人有其他的热情？拉迪斯瓦夫？——他们之间肯定有一种不寻常的感觉。卡索邦一定对此有所了解。嗯——她的爱可能比她的金钱更能帮助一个男人。

Dorothea on her side had immediately formed a plan of relieving Lydgate from his obligation to Bulstrode, which she felt sure was a part, though small, of the galling pressure he had to bear. She sat down at once under the inspiration of their interview, and wrote a brief note, in which she pleaded that she had more claim than Mr. Bulstrode had to the satisfaction of providing the money which had been serviceable to Lydgate—that it would be unkind in Lydgate not to grant her the position of being his helper in this small matter, the favor being entirely to her who had so little that was plainly marked out for her to do with her superfluous money. He might call her a creditor or by any other name if it did but imply that he granted her request. She enclosed a check for a thousand pounds, and determined to take the letter with her the next day when she went to see Rosamond.
多萝西娅立即制定了一项计划，以解除利德盖特对布尔斯特罗德的义务，她确信这只是他必须承受的令人痛苦的压力的一部分，尽管很小。在他们采访的启发下，她立即坐下来，写了一份简短的便条，其中她辩称，她比布尔斯特罗德先生更有权利要求提供对利德盖特有用的资金——这将是利德盖特不肯让她在这件小事上担任他的帮手，这对她很不友善，这种恩惠完全是为了她，因为她没有什么明确标记的可以用她多余的钱来做的事。如果这样做的话，他可能会称她为债权人或任何其他名称，但这意味着他同意了她的请求。她附上一张一千英镑的支票，并决定第二天去看罗莎蒙德时带着这封信。

CHAPTER LXXVII
第六十七章

‘And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot,
‘因此你的堕落留下了一种污点，

To mark the full-fraught man and best indued
纪念这个充满忧愁和最好的人

With some suspicion.’
带着一些怀疑。

—Henry V.
——亨利五世

The next day Lydgate had to go to Brassing, and told Rosamond that he should be away until the evening. Of late she had never gone beyond her own house and garden, except to church, and once to see her papa, to whom she said, ‘If Tertius goes away, you will help us to move, will you not, papa? I suppose we shall have very little money. I am sure I hope some one will help us.’ And Mr. Vincy had said, ‘Yes, child, I don’t mind a hundred or two. I can see the end of that.’ With these exceptions she had sat at home in languid melancholy and suspense, fixing her mind on Will Ladislaw’s coming as the one point of hope and interest, and associating this with some new urgency on Lydgate to make immediate arrangements for leaving Middlemarch and going to London, till she felt assured that the coming would be a potent cause of the going, without at all seeing how. This way of establishing sequences is too common to be fairly regarded as a peculiar folly in Rosamond. And it is precisely this sort of sequence which causes the greatest shock when it is sundered: for to see how an effect may be produced is often to see possible missings and checks; but to see nothing except the desirable cause, and close upon it the desirable effect, rids us of doubt and makes our minds strongly intuitive. That was the process going on in poor Rosamond, while she arranged all objects around her with the same nicety as ever, only with more slowness— or sat down to the piano, meaning to play, and then desisting, yet lingering on the music stool with her white fingers suspended on the wooden front, and looking before her in dreamy ennui. Her melancholy had become so marked that Lydgate felt a strange timidity before it, as a perpetual silent reproach, and the strong man, mastered by his keen sensibilities towards this fair fragile creature whose life he seemed somehow to have bruised, shrank from her look, and sometimes started at her approach, fear of her and fear for her rushing in only the more forcibly after it had been momentarily expelled by exasperation.
第二天，利德盖特必须前往布拉辛，并告诉罗莎蒙德他应该离开到晚上。最近，她从来没有走出过自己的房子和花园，除了去教堂，有一次去看她的爸爸，她对爸爸说：“如果特蒂乌斯走了，你会帮助我们搬家，不是吗，爸爸？我想我们的钱会很少。我确信我希望有人能帮助我们。”文西先生说，“是的，孩子，我不介意一百两个。除了这些例外，她坐在家里，心情无精打采、忧郁而悬疑，把注意力集中在威尔·拉迪斯洛的到来上，作为希望和兴趣的一个点，并将这一点与利德盖特的一些新的紧迫性联系起来。立即安排离开米德尔马奇前往伦敦，直到她确信到来将成为离开的有力原因，但根本不知道如何。这种建立序列的方式太常见了，以至于不能被认为是罗莎蒙德特有的愚蠢行为。正是这种顺序在被分割时引起了最大的震惊：因为要了解如何产生效果，往往就是要看到可能的遗漏和检查；但是，除了理想的原因之外，什么也看不到，并接近理想的结果，就会消除我们的怀疑，并使我们的头脑具有强烈的直觉。这就是可怜的罗莎蒙德身上正在发生的过程，她像以前一样把周围的所有物品都摆得一清二楚，只是速度更加缓慢——或者坐在钢琴前，打算弹奏，然后停止，但又在乐谱凳上徘徊。她白皙的手指悬在木门上，茫然若失地看着前方。 她的忧郁变得如此明显，以至于利德盖特在它面前感到一种奇怪的胆怯，就像一种永久的无声责备，而这个坚强的男人，被他对这个美丽脆弱的生物的敏锐情感所控制，他似乎不知何故伤害了她的生命，从她的表情中退缩了，有时，当她走近时，对她的恐惧和对她的恐惧就会突然涌上心头，但在被愤怒暂时驱散之后，这种恐惧只会更加强烈地涌上心头。

But this morning Rosamond descended from her room upstairs— where she sometimes sat the whole day when Lydgate was out— equipped for a walk in the town. She had a letter to post—a letter addressed to Mr. Ladislaw and written with charming discretion, but intended to hasten his arrival by a hint of trouble. The servant-maid, their sole house-servant now, noticed her coming down-stairs in her walking dress, and thought ‘there never did anybody look so pretty in a bonnet poor thing.’
但今天早上，罗莎蒙德从楼上的房间下来——利德盖特外出时，她有时会在楼上待上一整天——准备在城里散步。她有一封信要寄——一封写给拉迪斯瓦先生的信，写得十分谨慎，但想通过暗示来加速他的到来。女仆，现在是他们唯一的女仆，注意到她穿着运动服下楼，心想“从来没有人戴着帽子看起来这么漂亮，可怜的东西。”

Meanwhile Dorothea’s mind was filled with her project of going to Rosamond, and with the many thoughts, both of the past and the probable future, which gathered round the idea of that visit. Until yesterday when Lydgate had opened to her a glimpse of some trouble in his married life, the image of Mrs. Lydgate had always been associated for her with that of Will Ladislaw. Even in her most uneasy moments—even when she had been agitated by Mrs. Cadwallader’s painfully graphic report of gossip— her effort, nay, her strongest impulsive prompting, had been towards the vindication of Will from any sullying surmises; and when, in her meeting with him afterwards, she had at first interpreted his words as a probable allusion to a feeling towards Mrs. Lydgate which he was determined to cut himself off from indulging, she had had a quick, sad, excusing vision of the charm there might be in his constant opportunities of companionship with that fair creature, who most likely shared his other tastes as she evidently did his delight in music. But there had followed his parting words— the few passionate words in which he had implied that she herself was the object of whom his love held him in dread, that it was his love for her only which he was resolved not to declare but to carry away into banishment. From the time of that parting, Dorothea, believing in Will’s love for her, believing with a proud delight in his delicate sense of honor and his determination that no one should impeach him justly, felt her heart quite at rest as to the regard he might have for Mrs. Lydgate. She was sure that the regard was blameless.
与此同时，多萝西娅的脑子里充满了她去罗莎蒙德的计划，以及许多关于过去和可能的未来的想法，这些想法聚集在这次访问的想法上。直到昨天利德盖特向她透露了他婚姻生活中的一些麻烦时，利德盖特夫人的形象一直与威尔·拉迪斯洛联系在一起。即使在她最不安的时刻——即使当她被卡德沃拉德夫人那令人痛苦的、图文并茂的八卦报道所激怒时——她的努力，不，她最强烈的冲动冲动，一直是为了证明威尔的清白，不让任何有污点的猜测发生；甚至在她最不安的时刻——即使她被卡德沃拉德夫人令人痛苦的八卦报道激怒了——她的努力，不，她最强烈的冲动提示，一直是为了证明威尔的正确性，不让任何有污点的猜测；后来在与他会面时，她一开始把他的话理解为可能暗指他决心不再沉迷于利德盖特夫人的感情，这时她迅速地、悲伤地、原谅地看到了这样的景象：他的魅力可能在于他不断有机会与那个美丽的女人交往，她很可能分享他的其他品味，因为她显然也喜欢他的音乐。但接下来是他的临别赠言——在这几句充满激情的话语中，他暗示她本身就是他所爱的对象，让他感到恐惧，他决定不表白而是将他对她的爱唯一地表达出来。远去流放。从那次分别的那一刻起，多萝西娅相信威尔对她的爱，自豪地相信他微妙的荣誉感和他决心没有人公正地弹劾他，她的心很平静，因为他可能会受到尊重。给利德盖特夫人的。她确信这种尊重是无可指责的。

There are natures in which, if they love us, we are conscious of having a sort of baptism and consecration: they bind us over to rectitude and purity by their pure belief about us; and our sins become that worst kind of sacrilege which tears down the invisible altar of trust. ‘If you are not good, none is good’— those little words may give a terrific meaning to responsibility, may hold a vitriolic intensity for remorse.
在某些天性中，如果他们爱我们，我们就会意识到自己接受了某种洗礼和奉献：他们通过对我们的纯粹信仰将我们束缚在正直和纯洁上；我们的罪孽成为最严重的亵渎行为，摧毁了无形的信任祭坛。 “如果你不好，那么没有人会好”——这句小话可能赋予责任重大的意义，可能会带来强烈的悔恨。

Dorothea’s nature was of that kind: her own passionate faults lay along the easily counted open channels of her ardent character; and while she was full of pity for the, visible mistakes of others, she had not yet any material within her experience for subtle constructions and suspicions of hidden wrong. But that simplicity of hers, holding up an ideal for others in her believing conception of them, was one of the great powers of her womanhood. And it had from the first acted strongly on Will Ladislaw. He felt, when he parted from her, that the brief words by which he had tried to convey to her his feeling about herself and the division which her fortune made between them, would only profit by their brevity when Dorothea had to interpret them: he felt that in her mind he had found his highest estimate.
多萝西娅的性格就是这样：她自己热情的缺点在她热情的性格中很容易数出。虽然她对别人明显的错误充满怜悯，但她的经验中还没有任何材料来证明微妙的结构和对隐藏错误的怀疑。但她的单纯，在她对他人的信念中为他人树立了理想，这是她女性气质的伟大力量之一。从一开始，它就对威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫产生了强烈的影响。他觉得，当他与她分别时，他试图用简短的话语向她表达他对自己的感觉以及她的命运在他们之间造成的分歧，只有当多萝西娅必须解释它们时，它们的简短才会受益：他感觉在她心里他已经找到了自己的最高估计。

And he was right there. In the months since their parting Dorothea had felt a delicious though sad repose in their relation to each other, as one which was inwardly whole and without blemish. She had an active force of antagonism within her, when the antagonism turned on the defence either of plans or persons that she believed in; and the wrongs which she felt that Will had received from her husband, and the external conditions which to others were grounds for slighting him, only gave the more tenacity to her affection and admiring judgment. And now with the disclosures about Bulstrode had come another fact affecting Will’s social position, which roused afresh Dorothea’s inward resistance to what was said about him in that part of her world which lay within park palings.
他就在那里。分手后的几个月里，多萝西娅在他们彼此的关系中感受到了一种甜蜜而又悲伤的安息，因为他们的内心是完整的、没有瑕疵的。她内心有一股积极的对抗力量，当这种对抗转向捍卫她所相信的计划或人时；她觉得威尔从她丈夫那里受到的委屈，以及在别人眼里成为轻视他的理由的外在条件，只会让她的感情和钦佩的判断力更加坚韧。现在，随着布尔斯特罗德的曝光，另一个影响威尔社会地位的事实又出现了，这再次激起了多萝西娅内心的抵制，因为在她的世界里，公园的栅栏内，关于他的言论再次激起了多萝西娅的抵触。

‘Young Ladislaw the grandson of a thieving Jew pawnbroker’ was a phrase which had entered emphatically into the dialogues about the Bulstrode business, at Lowick, Tipton, and Freshitt, and was a worse kind of placard on poor Will’s back than the ‘Italian with white mice.’ Upright Sir James Chettam was convinced that his own satisfaction was righteous when he thought with some complacency that here was an added league to that mountainous distance between Ladislaw and Dorothea, which enabled him to dismiss any anxiety in that direction as too absurd. And perhaps there had been some pleasure in pointing Mr. Brooke’s attention to this ugly bit of Ladislaw’s genealogy, as a fresh candle for him to see his own folly by. Dorothea had observed the animus with which Will’s part in the painful story had been recalled more than once; but she had uttered no word, being checked now, as she had not been formerly in speaking of Will, by the consciousness of a deeper relation between them which must always remain in consecrated secrecy. But her silence shrouded her resistant emotion into a more thorough glow; and this misfortune in Will’s lot which, it seemed, others were wishing to fling at his back as an opprobrium, only gave something more of enthusiasm to her clinging thought.
“年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫是一个偷窃的犹太当铺老板的孙子”，这句话在洛威克、蒂普顿和弗雷希特关于布尔斯特罗德生意的对话中被强调，而且是挂在可怜的威尔背上的标语牌，比挂在“意大利人”更糟糕。正直的詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士确信自己的满足感是正当的，因为他有些自满地认为，拉迪斯瓦夫和多萝西娅之间的山地距离又增加了一个联盟，这使他能够消除任何在这个方向上的焦虑，因为这太荒谬了。也许让布鲁克先生注意到拉迪斯瓦家谱中这一丑陋的部分是有某种乐趣的，就像一根新的蜡烛让他看到自己的愚蠢行为。多萝西娅注意到威尔在这个痛苦的故事中所扮演的角色不止一次地被回忆起时的敌意。但她一言不发，因为她意识到他们之间有更深层的关系，而这种关系必须始终保持神圣的秘密，所以现在她没有说话，因为她以前没有谈论过威尔。但她的沉默却将她的抗拒情绪笼罩在更彻底的光芒之中。威尔的不幸遭遇，其他人似乎都想以此作为对他的责难，但这却给她执着的想法增添了更多的热情。

She entertained no visions of their ever coming into nearer union, and yet she had taken no posture of renunciation. She had accepted her whole relation to Will very simply as part of her marriage sorrows, and would have thought it very sinful in her to keep up an inward wail because she was not completely happy, being rather disposed to dwell on the superfluities of her lot. She could bear that the chief pleasures of her tenderness should lie in memory, and the idea of marriage came to her solely as a repulsive proposition from some suitor of whom she at present knew nothing, but whose merits, as seen by her friends, would be a source of torment to her:— ‘somebody who will manage your property for you, my dear,’ was Mr. Brooke’s attractive suggestion of suitable characteristics. ‘I should like to manage it myself, if I knew what to do with it,’ said Dorothea. No—she adhered to her declaration that she would never be married again, and in the long valley of her life which looked so flat and empty of waymarks, guidance would come as she walked along the road, and saw her fellow-passengers by the way.
她没有想到他们会更加紧密地结合在一起，但她也没有采取放弃的姿态。她很简单地接受了她与威尔的整个关系，将其视为婚姻悲伤的一部分，并认为她内心的哀号是非常有罪的，因为她并不完全幸福，更倾向于沉迷于自己命运的多余。 。她可以忍受，她温柔的主要快乐应该存在于记忆中，而婚姻的想法只是作为一个令人厌恶的提议而产生的，她目前对这个追求者一无所知，但正如她的朋友们所看到的，他的优点将是值得的。成为她痛苦的根源：“亲爱的，有人会为你管理你的财产，”布鲁克先生对合适的特征提出了有吸引力的建议。 “如果我知道如何处理它，我想自己管理它，”多萝西娅说。不——她坚持自己的誓言，不再结婚，在她人生的漫长低谷中，看似平坦、空无一物的路标，当她走在路上，看到路边的同行者时，指引就会出现。方式。

This habitual state of feeling about Will Ladislaw had been strong. in all her waking hours since she had proposed to pay a visit to Mrs. Lydgate, making a sort of background against which she saw Rosamond’s figure presented to her without hindrances to her interest and compassion. There was evidently some mental separation, some barrier to complete confidence which had arisen between this wife and the husband who had yet made her happiness a law to him. That was a trouble which no third person must directly touch. But Dorothea thought with deep pity of the loneliness which must have come upon Rosamond from the suspicions cast on her husband; and there would surely be help in the manifestation of respect for Lydgate and sympathy with her.
这种对威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫的习惯性感情一直很强烈。自从她提议去拜访利德盖特夫人以来，在她醒着的所有时间里，她都在营造一种背景，在这种背景下，她看到罗莎蒙德的身影呈现在她面前，而没有妨碍她的兴趣和同情心。显然，这位妻子和丈夫之间存在某种精神上的隔阂，某种完全信任的障碍，而丈夫却还把她的幸福视为他的法则。那是第三者不能直接触及的麻烦。但多萝西娅怀着深深的怜悯想到，罗莎蒙德一定会因为对她丈夫的怀疑而感到孤独。表达对利德盖特的尊重和同情肯定会有所帮助。

‘I shall talk to her about her husband,’ thought Dorothea, as she was being driven towards the town. The clear spring morning, the scent of the moist earth, the fresh leaves just showing their creased-up wealth of greenery from out their half-opened sheaths, seemed part of the cheerfulness she was feeling from a long conversation with Mr. Farebrother, who had joyfully accepted the justifying explanation of Lydgate’s conduct. ‘I shall take Mrs. Lydgate good news, and perhaps she will like to talk to me and make a friend of me.’
“我要跟她谈谈她的丈夫，”多萝西娅一边想，一边被车开往镇上。晴朗的春天早晨，潮湿的泥土的香味，新鲜的叶子刚刚从半开的叶鞘中露出褶皱的绿色植物，这似乎是她从与费雷布拉泽先生长时间交谈中感受到的快乐的一部分。高兴地接受了对利德盖特行为的合理解释。 “我会给利德盖特夫人带来好消息，也许她会愿意和我说话并成为我的朋友。”

Dorothea had another errand in Lowick Gate: it was about a new fine-toned bell for the school-house, and as she had to get out of her carriage very near to Lydgate’s, she walked thither across the street, having told the coachman to wait for some packages. The street door was open, and the servant was taking the opportunity of looking out at the carriage which was pausing within sight when it became apparent to her that the lady who ‘belonged to it’ was coming towards her.
多萝西娅在洛威克门还有另一件事：是为校舍安装一个新的精美铃声，因为她必须在离利德盖特很近的地方下马车，所以她步行穿过街道，告诉车夫等待一些包裹。临街的门开着，仆人正趁机向外张望停在视线范围内的马车，这时她发现那位“属于这辆马车”的女士正在向她走来。

‘Is Mrs. Lydgate at home?’ said Dorothea.
“利德盖特太太在家吗？”多萝西娅问。

‘I’m not sure, my lady; I’ll see, if you’ll please to walk in,’ said Martha, a little confused on the score of her kitchen apron, but collected enough to be sure that ‘mum’ was not the right title for this queenly young widow with a carriage and pair. ‘Will you please to walk in, and I’ll go and see.’
“我不确定，夫人； “我会看看，如果你愿意走进去的话，”玛莎说，她对厨房围裙的分数感到有点困惑，但她已经足够镇定了，可以确定“妈妈”并不是这个年轻女王寡妇的正确称呼。一辆马车和一对。 “请你走进去，我去看看。”

‘Say that I am Mrs. Casaubon,’ said Dorothea, as Martha moved forward intending to show her into the drawing-room and then to go up-stairs to see if Rosamond had returned from her walk.
“就说我是卡苏朋夫人吧。”多萝西娅说道，玛莎向前走去，打算带她进客厅，然后上楼去看看罗莎蒙德是否散步回来了。

They crossed the broader part of the entrance-hall, and turned up the passage which led to the garden. The drawing-room door was unlatched, and Martha, pushing it without looking into the room, waited for Mrs. Casaubon to enter and then turned away, the door having swung open and swung back again without noise.
他们穿过门厅较宽的部分，拐进通向花园的通道。客厅的门没锁，玛莎推门而入，没有朝房间里看，等卡苏邦太太进来，然后转过身去，门无声无息地打开了又转了回去。

Dorothea had less of outward vision than usual this morning, being filled with images of things as they had been and were going to be. She found herself on the other side of the door without seeing anything remarkable, but immediately she heard a voice speaking in low tones which startled her as with a sense of dreaming in daylight, and advancing unconsciously a step or two beyond the projecting slab of a bookcase, she saw, in the terrible illumination of a certainty which filled up all outlines, something which made her pause, motionless, without self-possession enough to speak.
今天早上，多萝西娅的外在视野比平时要少，她的脑海里充满了事物过去和未来的景象。她发现自己到了门的另一边，并没有看到任何值得注意的东西，但立即她听到一个低声说话的声音，这让她吃了一惊，有一种白天做梦的感觉，不知不觉地向前迈出了一两步，超出了突出的石板。她看到了书架，在充满了所有轮廓的确定性的可怕照明中，有什么东西让她停了下来，一动不动，没有足够的冷静来说话。

Seated with his back towards her on a sofa which stood against the wall on a line with the door by which she had entered, she saw Will Ladislaw: close by him and turned towards him with a flushed tearfulness which gave a new brilliancy to her face sat Rosamond, her bonnet hanging back, while Will leaning towards her clasped both her upraised hands in his and spoke with low-toned fervor.
她背对着她坐在一张沙发上，沙发靠墙与她进来的门在一条线上，她看到了威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫：靠近他，转身面向他，满脸通红，泪流满面，这给她的脸增添了新的光彩罗莎蒙德坐着，帽子向后垂着，而威尔则靠向她，握住她举起的双手，低声热情地说道。

Rosamond in her agitated absorption had not noticed the silently advancing figure; but when Dorothea, after the first immeasurable instant of this vision, moved confusedly backward and found herself impeded by some piece of furniture, Rosamond was suddenly aware of her presence, and with a spasmodic movement snatched away her hands and rose, looking at Dorothea who was necessarily arrested. Will Ladislaw, starting up, looked round also, and meeting Dorothea’s eyes with a new lightning in them, seemed changing to marble: But she immediately turned them away from him to Rosamond and said in a firm voice—
罗莎蒙德全神贯注地焦躁不安，没有注意到那个默默走来的身影。但是当多萝西娅在看到这个景象的第一个不可估量的瞬间后，困惑地向后退去，发现自己被一件家具挡住了，罗莎蒙德突然意识到她的存在，并以痉挛的动作抽回双手，站起来，看着多萝西娅。必然被逮捕。威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫站了起来，也环顾四周，与多萝西娅的双眸相遇，双眸中闪烁着新的光芒，似乎变成了大理石：但她立即将目光从他身上转向罗莎蒙德，并用坚定的声音说道——

‘Excuse me, Mrs. Lydgate, the servant did not know that you were here. I called to deliver an important letter for Mr. Lydgate, which I wished to put into your own hands.’
“对不起，利德盖特夫人，仆人不知道您在这里。我打电话是为了给利德盖特先生转递一封重要的信，我希望将这封信交到您手中。

She laid down the letter on the small table which had checked her retreat, and then including Rosamond and Will in one distant glance and bow, she went quickly out of the room, meeting in the passage the surprised Martha, who said she was sorry the mistress was not at home, and then showed the strange lady out with an inward reflection that grand people were probably more impatient than others.
她把信放在那张检查了她撤退的小桌子上，然后远远地看了一眼罗莎蒙德和威尔，鞠了一躬，她快步走出了房间，在过道里遇到了惊讶的玛莎，她说她很抱歉女主人不在家，便把这位陌生的女士领了出去，心里暗想，大人物恐怕比其他人更不耐烦。

Dorothea walked across the street with her most elastic step and was quickly in her carriage again.
多萝西娅用她最有弹性的步伐穿过街道，很快又坐上了马车。

‘Drive on to Freshitt Hall,’ she said to the coachman, and any one looking at her might have thought that though she was paler than usual she was never animated by a more self-possessed energy. And that was really her experience. It was as if she had drunk a great draught of scorn that stimulated her beyond the susceptibility to other feelings. She had seen something so far below her belief, that her emotions rushed back from it and made an excited throng without an object. She needed something active to turn her excitement out upon. She felt power to walk and work for a day, without meat or drink. And she would carry out the purpose with which she had started in the morning, of going to Freshitt and Tipton to tell Sir James and her uncle all that she wished them to know about Lydgate, whose married loneliness under his trial now presented itself to her with new significance, and made her more ardent in readiness to be his champion. She had never felt anything like this triumphant power of indignation in the struggle of her married life, in which there had always been a quickly subduing pang; and she took it as a sign of new strength.
“开车去弗雷希特庄园，”她对车夫说，任何看着她的人都可能会认为，尽管她比平常更苍白，但她从来没有被一种更加沉着的能量所激励。这确实是她的经历。就好像她喝了一大口轻蔑的酒，刺激着她，超越了对其他感情的敏感度。她看到了一些远远低于她的信念的东西，她的情绪从那里涌了回来，形成了一个没有目标的兴奋人群。她需要一些积极的东西来发泄她的兴奋。她感到自己有力量步行和工作一天，不吃不喝。她将实现她早上开始的目的，去弗雷希特和蒂普顿那里，告诉詹姆斯爵士和她叔叔她希望他们知道的关于利德盖特的一切，现在她在他的审判下，已婚的孤独感浮现了出来。具有新的意义，并使她更加热衷于成为他的冠军。在她婚姻生活的挣扎中，她从来没有感受到过如此胜利的愤怒力量，在婚姻生活中，她总是有一种很快就被压制住的痛苦。她认为这是新力量的标志。

‘Dodo, how very bright your eyes are!’ said Celia, when Sir James was gone out of the room. ‘And you don’t see anything you look at, Arthur or anything. You are going to do something uncomfortable, I know. Is it all about Mr. Lydgate, or has something else happened?’ Celia had been used to watch her sister with expectation.
“多多，你的眼睛多么明亮啊！”当詹姆斯爵士走出房间时，西莉亚说道。 “你看不到任何东西，亚瑟或者任何东西。我知道你会做一些不舒服的事情。 “是利德盖特先生的事，还是发生了其他事情？”西莉亚已经习惯用期待的目光看着她的妹妹。

‘Yes, dear, a great many things have happened,’ said Dodo, in her full tones.
“是的，亲爱的，发生了很多事情，”多多用她的声音说道。

‘I wonder what,’ said Celia, folding her arms cozily and leaning forward upon them.
“我想知道是什么，”西莉亚说道，舒适地交叉着双臂，身体前倾。

‘Oh, all the troubles of all people on the face of the earth,’ said Dorothea, lifting her arms to the back of her head.
“哦，地球上所有人的所有烦恼，”多萝西娅说，将双臂举到脑后。

‘Dear me, Dodo, are you going to have a scheme for them?’ said Celia, a little uneasy at this Hamlet-like raving.
“天哪，多多，你要为他们制定一个计划吗？”西莉亚说，对这种哈姆雷特式的胡言乱语感到有点不安。

But Sir James came in again, ready to accompany Dorothea to the Grange, and she finished her expedition well, not swerving in her resolution until she descended at her own door.
但詹姆斯爵士又进来了，准备陪多萝西娅去田庄，她很好地完成了她的探险，直到她来到自家门口才改变了她的决心。

CHAPTER LXXVIII
第 六十八章

Would it were yesterday and I i’ the grave,
如果是昨天，我会在坟墓里吗？

With her sweet faith above for monument ‘
以她甜蜜的信念为纪念碑”

Rosamond and Will stood motionless—they did not know how long— he looking towards the spot where Dorothea had stood, and she looking towards him with doubt. It seemed an endless time to Rosamond, in whose inmost soul there was hardly so much annoyance as gratification from what had just happened. Shallow natures dream of an easy sway over the emotions of others, trusting implicitly in their own petty magic to turn the deepest streams, and confident, by pretty gestures and remarks, of making the thing that is not as though it were. She knew that Will had received a severe blow, but she had been little used to imagining other people’s states of mind except as a material cut into shape by her own wishes; and she believed in her own power to soothe or subdue. Even Tertius, that most perverse of men, was always subdued in the long-run: events had been obstinate, but still Rosamond would have said now, as she did before her marriage, that she never gave up what she had set her mind on.
罗莎蒙德和威尔一动不动地站着——他们不知道多久——他看着多萝西娅站着的地方，而她则疑惑地看着他。对罗莎蒙德来说，这似乎是一段无尽的时光，刚刚发生的事情在她内心深处几乎没有多少烦恼，而是更多的满足。肤浅的本性梦想着能够轻松地左右他人的情绪，暗中相信自己的小魔法能够扭转最深的溪流，并自信地通过漂亮的手势和言论使事物变得不那么像。她知道威尔受到了沉重的打击，但她很少习惯去想象别人的心态，除非她把自己想象成一块根据自己意愿塑造的材料；她相信自己有能力安抚或征服。即使是特提乌斯，那个最任性的男人，从长远来看也总是被制服的：事情一直是顽固的，但罗莎蒙德现在仍然会说，就像她在结婚前所做的那样，她从未放弃过她所下定的决心。

She put out her arm and laid the tips of her fingers on Will’s coat-sleeve.
她伸出手臂，将指尖放在威尔的衣袖上。

‘Don’t touch me!’ he said, with an utterance like the cut of a lash, darting from her, and changing from pink to white and back again, as if his whole frame were tingling with the pain of the sting. He wheeled round to the other side of the room and stood opposite to her, with the tips of his fingers in his pockets and his head thrown back, looking fiercely not at Rosamond but at a point a few inches away from her.
“别碰我！”他说，声音就像鞭子割过一样，从她身边飞奔而出，从粉红色变成白色，然后又变回来，仿佛他的整个身体都因刺痛而刺痛。他转身到房间的另一边，站在她对面，手指插在口袋里，头向后仰着，目光凶狠地看着，不是罗莎蒙德，而是离她几英寸远的地方。

She was keenly offended, but the Signs she made of this were such as only Lydgate was used to interpret. She became suddenly quiet and seated herself, untying her hanging bonnet and laying it down with her shawl. Her little hands which she folded before her were very cold.
她非常生气，但她对此做出的迹象只有利德盖特才能解释。她突然安静下来，坐下来，解开挂在身上的帽子，把它和披肩一起放下。她叠在身前的小手非常冰凉。

It would have been safer for Will in the first instance to have taken up his hat and gone away; but he had felt no impulse to do this; on the contrary, he had a horrible inclination to stay and shatter Rosamond with his anger. It seemed as impossible to bear the fatality she had drawn down on him without venting his fury as it would be to a panther to bear the javelin-wound without springing and biting. And yet—how could he tell a woman that he was ready to curse her? He was fuming under a repressive law which he was forced to acknowledge: he was dangerously poised, and Rosamond’s voice now brought the decisive vibration. In flute-like tones of sarcasm she said—
对于威尔来说，首先拿起帽子走开会更安全。但他并没有这样做的冲动；相反，他有一种可怕的倾向，想留下来，用自己的愤怒击垮罗莎蒙德。承受她给他带来的死亡而不发泄他的愤怒似乎是不可能的，就像一头黑豹承受标枪的伤口而不跳起来和咬人一样。然而——他怎么能告诉一个女人他准备诅咒她呢？他对他被迫承认的压制性法律感到愤怒：他保持着危险的泰然自若，而罗莎蒙德的声音现在带来了决定性的振动。她用笛子般的讽刺语气说道——

‘You can easily go after Mrs. Casaubon and explain your preference.’
“你可以轻松地找到卡苏邦夫人并解释你的偏好。”

‘Go after her!’ he burst out, with a sharp edge in his voice. ‘Do you think she would turn to look at me, or value any word I ever uttered to her again at more than a dirty feather?—Explain! How can a man explain at the expense of a woman?’
“追她！”他大声喊道，声音尖锐。 “你认为她会转身看着我，或者认为我对她说过的任何一句话都比一根肮脏的羽毛更重要吗？——解释一下！男人怎么能以牺牲女人为代价来解释呢？

‘You can tell her what you please,’ said Rosamond with more tremor.
“你想告诉她什么就告诉她，”罗莎蒙德更加颤抖地说。

‘Do you suppose she would like me better for sacrificing you? She is not a woman to be flattered because I made myself despicable— to believe that I must be true to her because I was a dastard to you.’
‘你认为她会因为我牺牲你而更喜欢我吗？她不是一个因为我让自己变得卑鄙而被奉承的女人——相信我必须对她忠诚，因为我对你来说是一个卑鄙的人。

He began to move about with the restlessness of a wild animal that sees prey but cannot reach it. Presently he burst out again—
他开始四处走动，就像一只看到猎物却无法够到的野生动物一样焦躁不安。不一会儿，他又爆发了——

‘I had no hope before—not much—of anything better to come. But I had one certainty—that she believed in me. Whatever people had said or done about me, she believed in me.—That’s gone! She’ll never again think me anything but a paltry pretence— too nice to take heaven except upon flattering conditions, and yet selling myself for any devil’s change by the sly. She’ll think of me as an incarnate insult to her, from the first moment we—‘
“我之前对未来的事情不抱任何希望——也不抱太大希望。但我有一个确信——她相信我。无论人们对我说什么或做了什么，她都相信我。——那已经过去了！她再也不会认为我只是一个微不足道的假装——太善良了，除非有讨人喜欢的条件，否则无法进入天堂，却又偷偷地为了任何魔鬼的改变而出卖自己。她会认为我是对她的侮辱，​​从我们第一刻起——”

Will stopped as if he had found himself grasping something that must not be thrown and shattered. He found another vent for his rage by snatching up Rosamond’s words again, as if they were reptiles to be throttled and flung off.
威尔停了下来，仿佛他发现自己抓住了一些不能扔掉或打碎的东西。他再次抓住罗莎蒙德的话，找到了另一个发泄愤怒的方式，就好像它们是被掐死并被扔掉的爬行动物一样。

‘Explain! Tell a man to explain how he dropped into hell! Explain my preference! I never had a PREFERENCE for her, any more than I have a preference for breathing. No other woman exists by the side of her. I would rather touch her hand if it were dead, than I would touch any other woman’s living.’
'解释！请一个人解释一下他是如何坠入地狱的！解释一下我的偏好！我对她从来没有偏爱，就像我对呼吸没有偏爱一样。她身边没有其他女人。如果她的手已经死了，我宁愿碰她的手，也不愿碰其他女人的活人。”

Rosamond, while these poisoned weapons were being hurled at her, was almost losing the sense of her identity, and seemed to be waking into some new terrible existence. She had no sense of chill resolute repulsion, of reticent self-justification such as she had known under Lydgate’s most stormy displeasure: all her sensibility was turned into a bewildering novelty of pain; she felt a new terrified recoil under a lash never experienced before. What another nature felt in opposition to her own was being burnt and bitten into her consciousness. When Will had ceased to speak she had become an image of sickened misery: her lips were pale, and her eyes had a tearless dismay in them. If it had been Tertius who stood opposite to her, that look of misery would have been a pang to him, and he would have sunk by her side to comfort her, with that strong-armed comfort which, she had often held very cheap.
当这些有毒武器向她投掷时，罗莎蒙德几乎失去了自己的身份感，似乎正在苏醒到某种新的可怕的存在中。她没有那种冷酷、坚决的排斥感，也没有那种沉默寡言的自我辩解的感觉，就像她在利德盖特最暴风雨般的不满之下所知道的那样：她所有的敏感都变成了一种令人困惑的新奇的痛苦；她在从未经历过的鞭打下感到了新的恐惧反冲。与她的本性相对立的另一种本性正在被烧毁并侵蚀她的意识。当威尔不再说话时，她就变成了一副令人作呕的痛苦形象：她的嘴唇苍白，眼睛里流露出无泪的沮丧。如果站在她对面的是泰尔提乌斯，那痛苦的表情会让他感到痛苦，他会趴在她身边安慰她，用她常常认为很廉价的那种强有力的安慰。

Let it be forgiven to Will that he had no such movement of pity. He had felt no bond beforehand to this woman who had spoiled the ideal treasure of his life, and he held himself blameless. He knew that he was cruel, but he had no relenting in him yet.
请原谅威尔没有这样的怜悯之心。他之前对这个毁掉了他一生理想财富的女人没有任何感情，他认为自己无可指责。他知道自己很残忍，但他还没有心软。

After he had done speaking, he still moved about, half in absence of mind, and Rosamond sat perfectly still. At length Will, seeming to bethink himself, took up his hat, yet stood some moments irresolute. He had spoken to her in a way that made a phrase of common politeness difficult to utter; and yet, now that he had come to the point of going away from her without further speech, he shrank from it as a brutality; he felt checked and stultified in his anger. He walked towards the mantel-piece and leaned his arm on it, and waited in silence for—he hardly knew what. The vindictive fire was still burning in him, and he could utter no word of retractation; but it was nevertheless in his mind that having come back to this hearth where he had enjoyed a caressing friendship he had found. calamity seated there—he had had suddenly revealed to him a trouble that lay outside the home as well as within it. And what seemed a foreboding was pressing upon him as with slow pincers:—that his life might come to be enslaved by this helpless woman who had thrown herself upon him in the dreary sadness of her heart. But he was in gloomy rebellion against the fact that his quick apprehensiveness foreshadowed to him, and when his eyes fell on Rosamond’s blighted face it seemed to him that he was the more pitiable of the two; for pain must enter into its glorified life of memory before it can turn into compassion.
说完之后，他仍然走来走去，半心不在焉的样子，而罗莎蒙德则一动不动地坐着。最后，威尔似乎回过神来，拿起帽子，但又站了一会儿，犹豫不决。他对她说话的方式让一般的礼貌用语都很难说出口。然而，既然他已经到了不再说话就离开她的地步，他就将这种行为视为一种粗暴而退缩了。他感到自己被愤怒压制住了。他走向壁炉架，把手臂靠在上面，默默地等待着——他几乎不知道会发生什么。他体内的斗气仍在燃烧，他说不出任何反悔的话。但无论如何，在他看来，回到这个他曾享受过的温暖的壁炉后，他找到了一种充满爱抚的友谊。灾难就在那里——他突然向他揭示了家庭内外的麻烦。似乎有一种不祥的预感像缓慢的钳子一样压在他身上：他的生命可能会被这个无助的女人所奴役，这个女人在内心的沉闷悲伤中将自己投向了他。但他对自己的快速忧虑预示着这一事实感到阴郁的反抗，当他的目光落在罗莎蒙德那张枯萎的脸上时，他觉得自己是两人中更可怜的一个。因为痛苦必须进入其光荣的记忆生活，然后才能转化为同情心。

And so they remained for many minutes, opposite each other, far apart, in silence; Will’s face still possessed by a mute rage, and Rosamond’s by a mute misery. The poor thing had no force to fling out any passion in return; the terrible collapse of the illusion towards which all her hope had been strained was a stroke which had too thoroughly shaken her: her little world was in ruins, and she felt herself tottering in the midst as a lonely bewildered consciousness.
就这样，他们保持了很多分钟，彼此相对，相距甚远，一言不发。威尔的脸上仍然充满了无声的愤怒，罗莎蒙德的脸上仍然充满了无声的痛苦。这个可怜的家伙没有力量以任何热情作为回报。她所有的希望都寄托在幻想上，但可怕的崩溃却彻底震撼了她：她的小世界变成了废墟，她感到自己在其中摇摇欲坠，就像一个孤独而困惑的意识。

Will wished that she would speak and bring some mitigating shadow across his own cruel speech, which seemed to stand staring at them both in mockery of any attempt at revived fellowship. But she said nothing, and at last with a desperate effort over himself, he asked, ‘Shall I come in and see Lydgate this evening?’
威尔希望她能开口说话，给他自己残酷的言论带来一些缓和的阴影，他的言论似乎正盯着他们俩，嘲笑任何恢复友谊的尝试。但她什么也没说，最后他拼命地问：“今晚我可以进来看看利德盖特吗？”

‘If you like,’ Rosamond answered, just audibly.
“如果你愿意的话，”罗莎蒙德回答道，声音很小。

And then Will went out of the house, Martha never knowing that he had been in.
然后威尔走出了房子，玛莎根本不知道他进来过。

After he was gone, Rosamond tried to get up from her seat, but fell back fainting. When she came to herself again, she felt too ill to make the exertion of rising to ring the bell, and she remained helpless until the girl, surprised at her long absence, thought for the first time of looking for her in all the down-stairs rooms. Rosamond said that she had felt suddenly sick and faint, and wanted to be helped up-stairs. When there she threw herself on the bed with her clothes on, and lay in apparent torpor, as she had done once before on a memorable day of grief.
他走后，罗莎蒙德试图从座位上站起来，但又晕倒了。当她再次清醒过来时，她觉得病得很重，无力起身去按门铃，她一直处于无助的状态，直到女孩对她这么久不见感到惊讶，第一次想到要在所有的沮丧中寻找她——楼梯间。罗莎蒙德说，她突然感到恶心和晕倒，需要有人搀扶上楼。当她到达那里时，她穿着衣服倒在床上，显然是麻木地躺着，就像她在一个难忘的悲伤日子里曾经做过的那样。

Lydgate came home earlier than he had expected, about half-past five, and found her there. The perception that she was ill threw every other thought into the background. When he felt her pulse, her eyes rested on him with more persistence than they had done for a long while, as if she felt some content that he was there. He perceived the difference in a moment, and seating himself by her put his arm gently under her, and bending over her said, ‘My poor Rosamond! has something agitated you?’ Clinging to him she fell into hysterical sobbings and cries, and for the next hour he did nothing but soothe and tend her. He imagined that Dorothea had been to see her, and that all this effect on her nervous system, which evidently involved some new turning towards himself, was due to the excitement of the new impressions which that visit had raised.
利德盖特比他预计的要早回家，大约五点半，并在那里找到了她。她病了的感觉把其他所有的想法都抛到了脑后。当他给她把脉时，她的目光比以往更持久地落在他身上，似乎对他的存在感到有些满足。他立刻察觉到了差异，坐在她旁边，轻轻地将手臂放在她身下，弯下腰对她说：“我可怜的罗莎蒙德！”有什么事让你心烦意乱吗？”她紧贴着他，歇斯底里地抽泣着，在​​接下来的一个小时里，他什么也没做，只是安抚和照顾她。他想象多萝西娅是来见她的，而她的神经系统受到的所有这些影响，显然涉及到对自己的一些新的转变，都是由于那次拜访所带来的新印象的兴奋所致。

CHAPTER LXXIX
第六十九章

‘Now, I saw in my dream, that just as they had ended their talk, they drew nigh to a very miry slough, that was in the midst of the plain; and they, being heedless, did both fall suddenly into the bog. The name of the slough was Despond.’—BUNYAN.
现在，我在梦中看到，他们刚结束谈话，就接近了平原中央的一片泥泞的沼泽。他们一不留神，一下子就双双掉进了沼泽里。沼泽的名字叫绝望。”——班扬。

When Rosamond was quiet, and Lydgate had left her, hoping that she might soon sleep under the effect of an anodyne, he went into the drawing-room to fetch a book which he had left there, meaning to spend the evening in his work-room, and he saw on the table Dorothea’s letter addressed to him. He had not ventured to ask Rosamond if Mrs. Casaubon had called, but the reading of this letter assured him of the fact, for Dorothea mentioned that it was to be carried by herself.
当罗莎蒙德安静下来时，利德盖特离开了她，希望她能在止痛药的作用下很快入睡，他走进客厅去取一本他留在那儿的书，打算在工作中度过一个晚上——房间里，他看到桌子上有多萝西娅写给他的信。他没有冒险问罗莎蒙德卡苏朋夫人是否来过电话，但是读了这封信后，他确信了这一点，因为多萝西娅提到这封信要由她自己携带。

When Will Ladislaw came in a little later Lydgate met him with a surprise which made it clear that he had not been told of the earlier visit, and Will could not say, ‘Did not Mrs. Lydgate tell you that I came this morning?’
稍后，当威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫进来时，利德盖特见到了他，他感到很惊讶，这显然表明他没有被告知早些时候的来访，威尔无法说：“利德盖特夫人没有告诉过你我今天早上来过吗？”

‘Poor Rosamond is ill,’ Lydgate added immediately on his greeting.
“可怜的罗莎蒙德病了，”利德盖特在问候后立即补充道。

‘Not seriously, I hope,’ said Will.
“我希望不是认真的，”威尔说。

‘No—only a slight nervous shock—the effect of some agitation. She has been overwrought lately. The truth is, Ladislaw, I am an unlucky devil. We have gone through several rounds of purgatory since you left, and I have lately got on to a worse ledge of it than ever. I suppose you are only just come down—you look rather battered— you have not been long enough in the town to hear anything?’
“不——只是轻微的神经休克——某种激动的影响。她最近太劳累了。事实是，拉迪斯瓦夫，我是一个不幸的恶魔。自从你离开后，我们已经经历了几轮炼狱，而我最近陷入了比以往任何时候都更糟糕的境地。我想你才刚刚下来——你看起来很疲惫——你在城里呆的时间还不够长，听不到任何声音吗？

‘I travelled all night and got to the White Hart at eight o’clock this morning. I have been shutting myself up and resting,’ said Will, feeling himself a sneak, but seeing no alternative to this evasion.
“我整夜赶路，今天早上八点到达白鹿球场。我一直把自己关起来休息。”威尔说，他感觉自己在偷偷摸摸，但除了逃避之外别无选择。

And then he heard Lydgate’s account of the troubles which Rosamond had already depicted to him in her way. She had not mentioned the fact of Will’s name being connected with the public story— this detail not immediately affecting her—and he now heard it for the first time.
然后他听到利德盖特讲述了罗莎蒙德已经用她的方式向他描述过的麻烦。她没有提到威尔的名字与公众故事有关的事实——这个细节并没有立即影响到她——而他现在第一次听到这个消息。

‘I thought it better to tell you that your name is mixed up with the disclosures,’ said Lydgate, who could understand better than most men how Ladislaw might be stung by the revelation. ‘You will be sure to hear it as soon as you turn out into the town. I suppose it is true that Raffles spoke to you.’
“我认为最好告诉你，你的名字与披露的内容混在一起，”利德盖特说，他比大多数人更了解拉迪斯瓦夫可能会因这一披露而受到怎样的刺痛。 ‘你一进城就一定会听到它。我想莱佛士确实和你说过话。”

‘Yes,’ said Will, sardonically. ‘I shall be fortunate if gossip does not make me the most disreputable person in the whole affair. I should think the latest version must be, that I plotted with Raffles to murder Bulstrode, and ran away from Middlemarch for the purpose.’
“是的，”威尔讽刺地说。 “如果流言蜚语没有让我成为整个事件中最声名狼藉的人，那我就很幸运了。我想最新的版本一定是，我和莱佛士密谋谋杀布尔斯特罗德，并为此目的逃离了米德尔马奇。

He was thinking ‘Here is a new ring in the sound of my name to recommend it in her hearing; however—what does it signify now?’
他在想：“这是我名字的新发音，可以在她的听力中推荐它；”然而——现在这意味着什么？

But he said nothing of Bulstrode’s offer to him. Will was very open and careless about his personal affairs, but it was among the more exquisite touches in nature’s modelling of him that he had a delicate generosity which warned him into reticence here. He shrank from saying that he had rejected Bulstrode’s money, in the moment when he was learning that it was Lydgate’s misfortune to have accepted it.
但他对布尔斯特罗德向他提出的提议只字未提。威尔对自己的个人事务非常开放和粗心，但在大自然对他的塑造中，他有一种微妙的慷慨，这也是他在这件事上要保持沉默的微妙之处之一。当他得知利德盖特接受这笔钱是不幸的时候，他不敢说自己拒绝了布尔斯特罗德的钱。

Lydgate too was reticent in the midst of his confidence. He made no allusion to Rosamond’s feeling under their trouble, and of Dorothea he only said, ‘Mrs. Casaubon has been the one person to come forward and say that she had no belief in any of the suspicions against me.’ Observing a change in Will’s face, he avoided any further mention of her, feeling himself too ignorant of their relation to each other not to fear that his words might have some hidden painful bearing on it. And it occurred to him that Dorothea was the real cause of the present visit to Middlemarch.
利德盖特在自信中也保持沉默。他没有提及罗莎蒙德在他们的麻烦下的感受，而谈到多萝西娅，他只说：“夫人。”卡索邦是唯一一个站出来说她不相信针对我的任何怀疑的人。”观察到威尔脸上的变化，他避免进一步提及她，觉得自己对他们之间的关系太无知了。不要担心他的话可能会带来一些隐藏的痛苦影响。他突然想到，多萝西娅才是这次访问米德尔马奇的真正原因。

The two men were pitying each other, but it was only Will who guessed the extent of his companion’s trouble. When Lydgate spoke with desperate resignation of going to settle in London, and said with a faint smile, ‘We shall have you again, old fellow.’ Will felt inexpressibly mournful, and said nothing. Rosamond had that morning entreated him to urge this step on Lydgate; and it seemed to him as if he were beholding in a magic panorama a future where he himself was sliding into that pleasureless yielding to the small solicitations of circumstance, which is a commoner history of perdition than any single momentous bargain.
两个人互相怜悯，但只有威尔猜到了他同伴的麻烦有多大。当利德盖特绝望地放弃去伦敦定居的想法时，他微笑着说：“我们会再次见到你的，老伙计。”威尔感到难以言表的悲伤，但什么也没说。那天早上，罗莎蒙德恳求他敦促对利德盖特采取这一措施；但他拒绝了。在他看来，他仿佛在一幅神奇的全景中看到了一个未来，他自己正在滑入那种无趣的屈服于环境的小诱惑的情况，这是一个比任何重大交易更常见的灭亡历史。

We are on a perilous margin when we begin to look passively at our future selves, and see our own figures led with dull consent into insipid misdoing and shabby achievement. Poor Lydgate was inwardly groaning on that margin, and Will was arriving at it. It seemed to him this evening as if the cruelty of his outburst to Rosamond had made an obligation for him, and he dreaded the obligation: he dreaded Lydgate’s unsuspecting good-will: he dreaded his own distaste for his spoiled life, which would leave him in motiveless levity.
当我们开始被动地审视未来的自己，看到自己的形象在愚钝的同意下犯下乏味的错误行为和卑鄙的成就时，我们就处于危险的边缘。可怜的利德盖特正在内心呻吟，而威尔也快到了。今晚在他看来，他对罗莎蒙德的暴怒似乎对他产生了一种义务，而他害怕这种义务：他害怕利德盖特毫无戒心的善意：他害怕自己对自己被破坏的生活的厌恶，这会让他离开毫无动机的轻浮。

CHAPTER LXXX
第LXXX章

‘Stern lawgiver! yet thou dost wear
‘严厉的立法者！但你却穿着

The Godhead’s most benignant grace;
神性最仁慈的恩典；

Nor know we anything so fair
也不知道我们有什么如此公平

As is the smile upon thy face;
正如你脸上的微笑；

Flowers laugh before thee on their beds,
花儿在你面前在床上笑，

And fragrance in thy footing treads;
你的脚步充满芬芳；

Thou dost preserve the Stars from wrong;
你保护群星免遭错误；

And the most ancient Heavens, through thee, are fresh and strong.
最古老的天堂，通过你，变得新鲜而强大。

—WORDSWORTH: Ode to Duty.
——华兹沃斯：《责任颂》。

When Dorothea had seen Mr. Farebrother in the morning, she had promised to go and dine at the parsonage on her return from Freshitt. There was a frequent interchange of visits between her and the Farebrother family, which enabled her to say that she was not at all lonely at the Manor, and to resist for the present the severe prescription of a lady companion. When she reached home and remembered her engagement, she was glad of it; and finding that she had still an hour before she could dress for dinner, she walked straight to the schoolhouse and entered into a conversation with the master and mistress about the new bell, giving eager attention to their small details and repetitions, and getting up a dramatic sense that her life was very busy. She paused on her way back to talk to old Master Bunney who was putting in some garden-seeds, and discoursed wisely with that rural sage about the crops that would make the most return on a perch of ground, and the result of sixty years’ experience as to soils—namely, that if your soil was pretty mellow it would do, but if there came wet, wet, wet to make it all of a mummy, why then—
当多萝西娅早上见到费雷布拉泽先生时，她答应从弗雷希特回来后去牧师住宅吃饭。她和费雷布拉泽一家经常来往，这使她能够说她在庄园里一点也不孤独，并且暂时抵制了一位女士同伴的严厉规定。当她回到家并想起自己订婚时，她很高兴。发现距离穿好衣服去吃晚饭还有一个小时，她径直走到校舍，与主人和女主人谈论新的钟声，热切地关注他们的小细节和重复，然后起床。戏剧性地感觉她的生活非常忙碌。她在回来的路上停下来，与正在撒一些花园种子的老邦尼大师交谈，并明智地与那位乡村圣人讨论了在栖息地上可以获得最大回报的农作物，以及六十年的结果。关于土壤的经验——也就是说，如果你的土壤相当软，那就可以了，但如果潮湿、潮湿、潮湿，让它变成木乃伊，那为什么——

Finding that the social spirit had beguiled her into being rather late, she dressed hastily and went over to the parsonage rather earlier than was necessary. That house was never dull, Mr. Farebrother, like another White of Selborne, having continually something new to tell of his inarticulate guests and proteges, whom he was teaching the boys not to torment; and he had just set up a pair of beautiful goats to be pets of the village in general, and to walk at large as sacred animals. The evening went by cheerfully till after tea, Dorothea talking more than usual and dilating with Mr. Farebrother on the possible histories of creatures that converse compendiously with their antennae, and for aught we know may hold reformed parliaments; when suddenly some inarticulate little sounds were heard which called everybody’s attention.
她发现社交精神使她迟到了，于是她匆忙穿好衣服，比必要的时间早到了牧师住宅。那所房子从来不乏味，费勒布拉泽先生，就像另一个塞尔伯恩白人一样，不断地有新的事情要告诉他不善言辞的客人和门生，他教导孩子们不要折磨他们；他刚刚养了一对漂亮的山羊作为全村的宠物，并作为神圣的动物自由行走。整个晚上都在愉快地度过，直到喝完茶后，多萝西娅比平时谈得更多，并与费勒布拉泽先生详细讨论了用触角简明地交谈的生物的可能历史，并且我们知道可能会举行改革后的议会；突然，一些含糊不清的小声音响起，引起了所有人的注意。

‘Henrietta Noble,’ said Mrs. Farebrother, seeing her small sister moving about the furniture-legs distressfully, ‘what is the matter?’
“亨利埃塔·诺布尔，”法尔布拉泽太太看到她的小妹妹在家具腿上痛苦地走来走去，说道，“出了什么事？”

‘I have lost my tortoise-shell lozenge-box. I fear the kitten has rolled it away,’ said the tiny old lady, involuntarily coutinuing her beaver-like notes.
“我丢了我的龟甲菱形盒子。我担心小猫把它滚走了。”小老太太说道，不由自主地继续她海狸般的笔记。

‘Is it a great treasure, aunt?’ said Mr. Farebrother, putting up his glasses and looking at the carpet.
“这是一个伟大的宝藏吗，姑妈？”费雷布拉泽先生一边说，一边戴上眼镜，看着地毯。

‘Mr. Ladislaw gave it me,’ said Miss Noble. ‘A German box— very pretty, but if it falls it always spins away as far as it can.’
'先生。拉迪斯瓦夫给了我，”诺布尔小姐说。 “一个德国盒子——非常漂亮，但如果它掉下来，它总是会旋转得尽可能远。”

‘Oh, if it is Ladislaw’s present,’ said Mr. Farebrother, in a deep tone of comprehension, getting up and hunting. The box was found at last under a chiffonier, and Miss Noble grasped it with delight, saying, ‘it was under a fender the last time.’
“哦，如果这是拉迪斯瓦夫的礼物就好了。”费雷布拉泽先生用深沉的理解语气说道，然后站了起来，开始寻找。盒子终于在抽屉柜下被发现了，诺布尔小姐高兴地抓住了它，说道：“上次是在挡泥板下的。”

‘That is an affair of the heart with my aunt,’ said Mr. Farebrother, smiling at Dorothea, as he reseated himself.
“这是我姨妈的心事，”费雷布拉泽先生一边说，一边重新坐下，对多萝西娅微笑着。

‘If Henrietta Noble forms an attachment to any one, Mrs. Casaubon,’ said his mother, emphatically,—‘she is like a dog—she would take their shoes for a pillow and sleep the better.’
“如果亨利埃塔·诺布尔对任何人产生了依恋，卡苏朋夫人，”他的母亲强调道，“她就像一只狗，她会把他们的鞋子当作枕头，这样睡得更好。”

‘Mr. Ladislaw’s shoes, I would,’ said Henrietta Noble.
'先生。拉迪斯拉夫的鞋子，我愿意，”亨利埃塔·诺布尔说。

Dorothea made an attempt at smiling in return. She was surprised and annoyed to find that her heart was palpitating violently, and that it was quite useless to try after a recovery of her former animation. Alarmed at herself—fearing some further betrayal of a change so marked in its occasion, she rose and said in a low voice with undisguised anxiety, ‘I must go; I have overtired myself.’
多萝西娅试图微笑回应。她又惊讶又恼火地发现自己的心脏剧烈地跳动着，恢复了之前的活力之后再尝试也毫无用处。她对自己感到震惊——担心如此显着的变化会遭到进一步的背叛，她站起来，低声说道，毫不掩饰焦虑，“我必须走了；我必须走了。”我自己太累了。

Mr. Farebrother, quick in perception, rose and said, ‘It is true; you must have half-exhausted yourself in talking about Lydgate. That sort of work tells upon one after the excitement is over.’
法尔布拉泽先生反应敏捷，站起来说道：“确实如此；你一定已经在谈论利德盖特时感到疲惫不堪了。这种工作会在兴奋结束后对人产生影响。

He gave her his arm back to the Manor, but Dorothea did not attempt to speak, even when he said good-night.
他把手臂放回庄园，但多萝西娅没有说话，即使他说了晚安。

The limit of resistance was reached, and she had sunk back helpless within the clutch of inescapable anguish. Dismissing Tantripp with a few faint words, she locked her door, and turning away from it towards the vacant room she pressed her hands hard on the top of her head, and moaned out—
抵抗已经到了极限，她无助地陷入了无法逃避的痛苦之中。她淡淡说了几句就打发走了坦特里普，锁上门，转身朝空荡荡的房间走去，双手用力按在头顶上，呻吟出声——

‘Oh, I did love him!’
“哦，我确实爱他！”

Then came the hour in which the waves of suffering shook her too thoroughly to leave any power of thought. She could only cry in loud whispers, between her sobs, after her lost belief which she had planted and kept alive from a very little seed since the days in Rome—after her lost joy of clinging with silent love and faith to one who, misprized by others, was worthy in her thought— after her lost woman’s pride of reigning in his memory—after her sweet dim perspective of hope, that along some pathway they should meet with unchanged recognition and take up the backward years as a yesterday.
接下来的时刻到来了，痛苦的浪潮彻底震撼了她，让她失去了任何思考的能力。她只能在啜泣中低声哭泣，因为她失去了从罗马时代起就用一粒小小的种子种下并保持活力的信仰——因为她失去了以沉默的爱和信仰依附于一个被错失的人的快乐。在她失去的女人在他的记忆中占据统治地位的骄傲之后，在她甜蜜而模糊的希望视角之后，在她看来，在某些道路上，他们应该得到不变的认可，并把过去的岁月当作昨天。

In that hour she repeated what the merciful eyes of solitude have looked on for ages in the spiritual struggles of man— she besought hardness and coldness and aching weariness to bring her relief from the mysterious incorporeal might of her anguish: she lay on the bare floor and let the night grow cold around her; while her grand woman’s frame was shaken by sobs as if she had been a despairing child.
在那一刻，她重复了多年来孤独的仁慈之眼在人类精神斗争中所注视的一切——她祈求坚强、寒冷和痛苦的疲倦，以使她从痛苦的神秘无形力量中解脱出来：她躺在光秃秃的地板上让夜色在她周围变得寒冷；而她的大女人的身躯因抽泣而摇晃，仿佛她是一个绝望的孩子。

There were two images—two living forms that tore her heart in two, as if it had been the heart of a mother who seems to see her child divided by the sword, and presses one bleeding half to her breast while her gaze goes forth in agony towards the half which is carried away by the lying woman that has never known the mother’s pang.
有两个画面——两个活生生的形体，将她的心撕成两半，仿佛母亲的心，似乎看到自己的孩子被剑劈开，将流血的一半压在胸前，目光投向前方。一半的痛苦被那个撒谎的女人带走，而她从来不知道母亲的痛苦。

Here, with the nearness of an answering smile, here within the vibrating bond of mutual speech, was the bright creature whom she had trusted—who had come to her like the spirit of morning visiting the dim vault where she sat as the bride of a worn-out life; and now, with a full consciousness which had never awakened before, she stretched out her arms towards him and cried with bitter cries that their nearness was a parting vision: she discovered her passion to herself in the unshrinking utterance of despair.
在这里，带着回应的微笑，在这里，在相互言语的振动纽带中，是她所信任的聪明的生物——她来到她身边，就像早晨的精灵来到昏暗的拱顶，她坐在那里，作为一个新娘的新娘。疲惫不堪的生活；现在，她带着前所未有的清醒意识，向他伸出双臂，痛苦地哭喊着，他们的靠近是离别的幻象：她在绝望的不屈不挠的话语中发现了她对自己的热情。

And there, aloof, yet persistently with her, moving wherever she moved, was the Will Ladislaw’ who was a changed belief exhausted of hope, a detected illusion—no, a living man towards whom there could not yet struggle any wail of regretful pity, from the midst of scorn and indignation and jealous offended pride. The fire of Dorothea’s anger was not easily spent, and it flamed out in fitful returns of spurning reproach. Why had he come obtruding his life into hers, hers that might have been whole enough without him? Why had he brought his cheap regard and his lip-born words to her who had nothing paltry to give in exchange? He knew that he was deluding her—wished, in the very moment of farewell, to make her believe that he gave her the whole price of her heart, and knew that he had spent it half before. Why had he not stayed among the crowd of whom she asked nothing— but only prayed that they might be less contemptible?
在那里，威尔·拉迪斯拉夫（Will Ladislaw）冷漠而坚定地与她同在，无论她走到哪里，他都是一个改变了的信仰，耗尽了希望，一个被发现的幻觉——不，一个活生生的人，对他还无法挣扎出任何遗憾的怜悯的哀号。 ，来自蔑视、愤慨和嫉妒，冒犯了骄傲。多萝西娅的怒火不容易熄灭，它在断断续续的蔑视责备中熄灭。为什么他要强行闯入她的生活，即使没有他，她的生活也可能很完整？他为什么要对她毫无微不足道的回报，带着廉价的问候和口头上的话语呢？他知道自己在欺骗她——希望在告别的那一刻，让她相信他为她付出了全部的心，并且知道他已经花掉了一半。为什么他不留在人群中，她什么也没要求，只是祈祷他们不要那么可鄙？

But she lost energy at last even for her loud-whispered cries and moans: she subsided into helpless sobs, and on the cold floor she sobbed herself to sleep.
但她最终还是失去了力气，即使她大声呼喊和呻吟：她陷入无助的抽泣中，在冰冷的地板上抽泣着睡着了。

In the chill hours of the morning twilight, when all was dim around her, she awoke—not with any amazed wondering where she was or what had happened, but with the clearest consciousness that she was looking into the eyes of sorrow. She rose, and wrapped warm things around her, and seated
在晨曦中寒冷的时刻，当周围一切都昏暗时，她醒来了——并没有惊讶地想知道自己在哪里或发生了什么事，而是清楚地意识到她正在看着悲伤的眼睛。她站起来，用温暖的东西裹住自己，然后坐下

herself in a great chair where she had often watched before. She was vigorous enough to have borne that hard night without feeling ill in body, beyond some aching and fatigue; but she had waked to a new condition: she felt as if her soul had been liberated from its terrible conflict; she was no longer wrestling with her grief, but could sit down with it as a lasting companion and make it a sharer in her thoughts. For now the thoughts came thickly. It was not in Dorothea’s nature, for longer than the duration of a paroxysm, to sit in the narrow cell of her calamity, in the besotted misery of a consciousness that only sees another’s lot as an accident of its own.
她自己坐在一把大椅子上，她以前经常在那里观看。她精力充沛，熬过了那个艰难的夜晚，身体没有感到任何不适，除了一些疼痛和疲劳之外。但她醒来时发现了一种新的状况：她感觉自己的灵魂似乎已经从可怕的冲突中解放出来了；她不再与悲伤作斗争，而是可以坐下来与它作为永久的伴侣，分享她的思绪。现在思绪纷繁。多萝西娅的天性不会让她在灾难的狭小牢房里待太久，她的意识只把别人的命运看作是自己的偶然事件，陷入了沉迷的痛苦之中。

She began now to live through that yesterday morning deliberately again, forcing herself to dwell on every detail and its possible meaning. Was she alone in that scene? Was it her event only? She forced herself to think of it as bound up with another woman’s life—a woman towards whom she had set out with a longing to carry some clearness and comfort into her beclouded youth. In her first outleap of jealous indignation and disgust, when quitting the hateful room, she had flung away all the mercy with which she had undertaken that visit. She had enveloped both Will and Rosamond in her burning scorn, and it seemed to her as if Rosamond were burned out of her sight forever. But that base prompting which makes a women more cruel to a rival than to a faithless lover, could have no strength of recurrence in Dorothea when the dominant spirit of justice within her had once overcome the tumult and had once shown her the truer measure of things. All the active thought with which she had before been representing to herself the trials of Lydgate’s lot, and this young marriage union which, like her own, seemed to have its hidden as well as evident troubles— all this vivid sympathetic experience returned to her now as a power: it asserted itself as acquired knowledge asserts itself and will not let us see as we saw in the day of our ignorance. She said to her own irremediable grief, that it should make her more helpful, instead of driving her back from effort.
她现在又开始刻意地回忆昨天早上的事情，强迫自己仔细思考每一个细节及其可能的含义。那个场景只有她一个人吗？这是她一个人的活动吗？她强迫自己认为这与另一个女人的生活息息相关——她怀着渴望为她迷茫的青春带来一些清晰和安慰的愿望走向这个女人。当她离开这个可恶的房间时，她第一次爆发出嫉妒、愤慨和厌恶，她抛弃了她这次拜访时所表现出的所有怜悯。她把威尔和罗莎蒙德都笼罩在她炽热的蔑视之中，在她看来，罗莎蒙德似乎永远从她的视线中消失了。但是，当多萝西娅内心占主导地位的正义精神一旦克服了骚乱，并一度向她展示了事物的更真实衡量标准时，那种使女人对情敌比对不忠的情人更残酷的卑鄙冲动就不再有力量在多萝西娅身上重现。 。她以前用所有积极的思想向自己描述利德盖特命运的考验，以及这个年轻的婚姻关系，就像她自己的婚姻一样，似乎有其隐藏的和明显的麻烦——所有这些生动的同情体验现在又回到了她的身上。作为一种力量：它像获得的知识一样主张自己，并且不会让我们看到我们在无知的日子所看到的那样。她对自己无法挽回的悲伤说，这应该让她更有帮助，而不是让她放弃努力。

And what sort of crisis might not this be in three lives whose contact with hers laid an obligation on her as if they had been suppliants bearing the sacred branch? The objects of her rescue were not to be sought out by her fancy: they were chosen for her. She yearned towards the perfect Right, that it might make a throne within her, and rule her errant will. ‘What should I do— how should I act now, this very day, if I could clutch my own pain, and compel it to silence, and think of those three?’
对于三个与她的生命接触的人来说，这不是一场什么样的危机，这三个生命都对她产生了义务，就好像他们是拿着神圣树枝的恳求者一样？拯救她的对象不是凭她的想象来寻找的：它们是为她选择的。她向往完美的右派，希望它能在她内心占据王座，统治她错误的意志。 “如果我能抓住自己的痛苦，强迫它安静下来，并想到那三个人，我现在该怎么办？就在今天，我该怎么办？”

It had taken long for her to come to that question, and there was light piercing into the room. She opened her curtains, and looked out towards the bit of road that lay in view, with fields beyond outside the entrance-gates. On the road there was a man with a bundle on his back and a woman carrying her baby; in the field she could see figures moving—perhaps the shepherd with his dog. Far off in the bending sky was the pearly light; and she felt the largeness of the world and the manifold wakings of men to labor and endurance. She was a part of that involuntary, palpitating life, and could neither look out on it from her luxurious shelter as a mere spectator, nor hide her eyes in selfish complaining.
她花了很长时间才想到这个问题，房间里透进了光。她拉开窗帘，望向眼前的那条路，大门外就是田野。路上有一个背着包袱的男人和一个背着孩子的女人；在田野里，她可以看到有人在移动——也许是牧羊人和他的狗。远处弯曲的天空中闪烁着珍珠般的光芒；她感受到了世界的广阔以及人们对劳动和忍耐力的多方面觉醒。她是那不由自主的、令人心悸的生活的一部分，她既不能在豪华的住所里作为一个旁观者观看它，也不能掩饰自己的眼睛自私的抱怨。

What she would resolve to do that day did not yet seem quite clear, but something that she could achieve stirred her as with an approaching murmur which would soon gather distinctness. She took off the clothes which seemed to have some of the weariness of a hard watching in them, and began to make her toilet. Presently she rang for Tantripp, who came in her dressing-gown.
那天她决定做什么似乎还不太清楚，但她能实现的某件事让她兴奋不已，就像一种即将到来的低语一样，很快就会变得清晰。她脱下身上似乎有些看守的疲倦的衣服，开始洗漱。不久，她按铃叫坦特里普，他穿着晨衣进来了。

‘Why, madam, you’ve never been in bed this blessed night,’ burst out Tantripp, looking first at the bed and then at Dorothea’s face, which in spite of bathing had the pale cheeks and pink eyelids of a mater dolorosa. ‘You’ll kill yourself, you WILL. Anybody might think now you had a right to give yourself a little comfort.’
“为什么，夫人，在这个幸福的夜晚，你从来没有上过床。”坦特里普突然说道，他先看看床，然后看看多萝西娅的脸，尽管洗过澡，她的脸颊还是苍白的，眼睑是粉红色的，就像一位痛苦的母亲。 ‘你会自杀，你会的。任何人都可能认为你现在有权给自己一点安慰。

‘Don’t be alarmed, Tantripp,’ said Dorothea, smiling. ‘I have slept; I am not ill. I shall be glad of a cup of coffee as soon as possible. And I want you to bring me my new dress; and most likely I shall want my new bonnet to-day.’
“别惊慌，坦特里普，”多萝西娅微笑着说。 ‘我已经睡了；我没有病。我会很高兴尽快喝杯咖啡。我要你给我带来我的新衣服；很可能我今天就会想要我的新帽子。

‘They’ve lain there a month and more ready for you, madam, and most thankful I shall be to see you with a couple o’ pounds’ worth less of crape,’ said Tantripp, stooping to light the fire. ‘There’s a reason in mourning, as I’ve always said; and three folds at the bottom of your skirt and a plain quilling in your bonnet— and if ever anybody looked like an angel, it’s you in a net quilling— is what’s consistent for a second year. At least, that’s MY thinking,’ ended Tantripp, looking anxiously at the fire; ‘and if anybody was to marry me flattering himself I should wear those hijeous weepers two years for him, he’d be deceived by his own vanity, that’s all.’
“夫人，它们已经在那里放了一个月多了，为您准备好了，最让我感激的是，我会很感激地看到您拿着价值几英镑的黑纱，”坦特里普说，弯腰生火。 “正如我常说的，哀悼是有原因的；裙子底部有三层褶皱，帽子上有朴素的羽绒服——如果有人看起来像天使，那就是戴着网状羽绒服的你——这是第二年的一贯风格。至少，我是这么想的。”坦特里普焦急地看着火，最后说道。 “如果有人要娶我来奉承自己，我应该为他穿那些可恶的哭泣者两年，他会被自己的虚荣心所欺骗，仅此而已。”

‘The fire will do, my good Tan,’ said Dorothea, speaking as she used to do in the old Lausanne days, only with a very low voice; ‘get me the coffee.’
“生火就可以了，我的好谭，”多萝西娅说道，就像过去洛桑的日子一样，只是声音很低。 “给我拿杯咖啡。”

She folded herself in the large chair, and leaned her head against it in fatigued quiescence, while Tantripp went away wondering at this strange contrariness in her young mistress—that just the morning when she had more of a widow’s face than ever, she should have asked for her lighter mourning which she had waived before. Tantripp would never have found the clew to this mystery. Dorothea wished to acknowledge that she had not the less an active life before her because she had buried a private joy; and the tradition that fresh garments belonged to all initiation, haunting her mind, made her grasp after even that slight outward help towards calm resolve. For the resolve was not easy.
她把自己折叠在大椅子上，疲倦地把头靠在上面，一言不发，而坦特里普走开时，对她年轻女主人身上这种奇怪的矛盾感到惊讶——就在那天早上，当她的脸比以往任何时候都更像寡妇时，她应该要求减轻她之前放弃的哀悼。坦特里普永远不会找到这个谜团的线索。多萝西娅希望承认，她面前的生活依然充满活力，因为她埋葬了私人的快乐。干净的衣服属于所有入会仪式的传统，萦绕在她的脑海中，使她在即使是轻微的外在帮助之后也能平静地下定决心。因为这个决心并不容易。

Nevertheless at eleven o’clock she was walking towards Middlemarch, having made up her mind that she would make as quietly and unnoticeably as possible her second attempt to see and save Rosamond.
尽管如此，十一点钟她还是朝米德尔马奇走去，并决定尽可能安静地、不引人注意地第二次尝试去见并拯救罗莎蒙德。

CHAPTER LXXXI
第LXXXI章

‘Du Erde warst auch diese Nacht bestandig,
“Du Erde warst auch diese Nacht bestandig，

Und athmest neu erquickt zu meinen Fussen,
和 athmest neu erquickt zu meinen Fussen,

Beginnest schon mit Lust mich zu umgeben,
Zum regst und ruhrst ein kraftiges Reschliessen
规则和规则

Zum hochsten Dasein immerfort zu streben.
Zum hochsten Dasein immerfort zu streben。

—Faust: 2r Theil.
——浮士德：2r泰尔。

When Dorothea was again at Lydgate’s door speaking to Martha, he was in the room close by with the door ajar, preparing to go out. He heard her voice, and immediately came to her.
当多萝西娅再次来到利德盖特门口与玛莎说话时，他正在附近的房间里，门半开着，准备出去。他听到她的声音，立刻来到她身边。

‘Do you think that Mrs. Lydgate can receive me this morning?’ she said, having reflected that it would be better to leave out all allusion to her previous visit.
“你认为利德盖特夫人今天早上可以接待我吗？”她说，考虑到最好不要提到她上次来访的情况。

‘I have no doubt she will,’ said Lydgate, suppressing his thought about Dorothea’s looks, which were as much changed as Rosamond’s, ‘if you will be kind enough to come in and let me tell her that you are here. She has not been very well since you were here yesterday, but she is better this morning, and I think it is very likely that she will be cheered by seeing you again.’
“我毫不怀疑她会的，”利德盖特说，抑制住自己对多萝西娅外表的想法，她的外表和罗莎蒙德的变化一样大，“如果你能好心进来，让我告诉她你在这里。”自从你昨天来这里以来，她的身体一直不太好，但今天早上她好多了，我想她很可能会因为再次见到你而感到高兴。”

It was plain that Lydgate, as Dorothea had expected, knew nothing about the circumstances of her yesterday’s visit; nay, he appeared to imagine that she had carried it out according to her intention. She had prepared a little note asking Rosamond to see her, which she would have given to the servant if he had not been in the way, but now she was in much anxiety as to the result of his announcement.
显然，正如多萝西娅所料，利德盖特对她昨天来访的情况一无所知。不仅如此，他似乎还以为她是按照自己的意图去做的。她准备了一张小纸条，请罗莎蒙德见她，如果仆人不妨碍的话，她会把这张纸条交给仆人，但现在她对他宣布的结果感到非常焦虑。

After leading her into the drawing-room, he paused to take a letter from his pocket and put it into her hands, saying, ‘I wrote this last night, and was going to carry it to Lowick in my ride. When one is grateful for something too good for common thanks, writing is less unsatisfactory than speech one does not at least HEAR how inadequate the words are.’
领着她走进客厅后，他停下来，从口袋里掏出一封信，塞到她手里，说道：“这是我昨晚写的，准备乘车去洛威克。”当一个人对某件事的感激之情超出了普通人的感谢时，写作比演讲更令人满意，人们至少不会听到言语有多么不足。

Dorothea’s face brightened. ‘It is I who have most to thank for, since you have let me take that place. You HAVE consented?’ she said, suddenly doubting.
多萝西娅的脸变得明亮起来。 ‘最要感谢的是我，因为你让我占据了那个位置。你同意了吗？”她突然疑惑地说。

‘Yes, the check is going to Bulstrode to-day.’
“是的，支票今天将寄往布尔斯特罗德。”

He said no more, but went up-stairs to Rosamond, who had but lately finished dressing herself, and sat languidly wondering what she should do next, her habitual industry in small things, even in the days of her sadness, prompting her to begin some kind of occupation, which she dragged through slowly or paused in from lack of interest. She looked ill, but had recovered her usual quietude of manner, and Lydgate had feared to disturb her by any questions. He had told her of Dorothea’s letter containing the check, and afterwards he had said, ‘Ladislaw is come, Rosy; he sat with me last night; I dare say he will be here again to-day. I thought he looked rather battered and depressed.’ And Rosamond had made no reply.
他不再说话，而是上楼去找罗莎蒙德，罗莎蒙德最近才穿好衣服，懒洋洋地坐着，想知道她下一步应该做什么，她习惯于做小事，即使在她悲伤的日子里，也促使她开始做事。某种职业，她拖得很慢，或者因为缺乏兴趣而暂停。她看起来病了，但已经恢复了平常的安静态度，利德盖特害怕任何问题打扰她。他告诉她多萝西娅的信里有支票，后来他说：“拉迪斯瓦来了，罗西；昨晚他和我坐在一起；我敢说他今天会再次来到这里。我觉得他看起来很疲惫，很沮丧。”罗莎蒙德没有做出任何回应。

Now, when he came up, he said to her very gently, ‘Rosy, dear, Mrs. Casaubon is come to see you again; you would like to see her, would you not?’ That she colored and gave rather a startled movement did not surprise him after the agitation produced by the interview yesterday—a beneficent agitation, he thought, since it seemed to have made her turn to him again.
现在，当他走过来时，他非常温柔地对她说：“罗西，亲爱的，卡苏邦夫人又来看你了；你要知道吗？”你想见见她，不是吗？”在昨天的采访引起的骚动之后，她的脸色变得苍白，做出了一个相当惊讶的动作，这并没有让他感到惊讶——他想，这是一种善意的激动，因为这似乎让她转向了又是他。

Rosamond dared not say no. She dared not with a tone of her voice touch the facts of yesterday. Why had Mrs. Casaubon come again? The answer was a blank which Rosamond could only fill up with dread, for Will Ladislaw’s lacerating words had made every thought of Dorothea a fresh smart to her. Nevertheless, in her new humiliating uncertainty she dared do nothing but comply. She did not say yes, but she rose and let Lydgate put a light shawl over her shoulders, while he said, ‘I am going out immediately.’ Then something crossed her mind which prompted her to say, ‘Pray tell Martha not to bring any one else into the drawing-room.’ And Lydgate assented, thinking that he fully understood this wish. He led her down to the drawing-room door, and then turned away, observing to himself that he was rather a blundering husband to be dependent for his wife’s trust in him on the influence of another woman.
罗莎蒙德不敢拒绝。她的语气不敢触及昨天的事实。卡苏朋夫人为什么又来了？答案是一片空白，罗莎蒙德只能用恐惧来填补，因为威尔·拉迪斯洛的撕心裂肺的话语让她对多萝西娅的每一个想法都变得新鲜。然而，在她新的令人羞辱的不确定性中，她除了服从之外什么也不敢做。她没有答应，但她站了起来，让利德盖特在她肩上披了一条轻薄的披肩，而他则说：“我马上出去。”然后她的脑海里闪过一件事，促使她说：“请告诉玛莎不要带上。”利德盖特同意了，他认为自己完全理解这个愿望。他领着她走到客厅门口，然后转身走开，心想自己是一个相当笨拙的丈夫，妻子对他的信任依赖于另一个女人的影响。

Rosamond, wrapping her soft shawl around her as she walked towards Dorothea, was inwardly wrapping her soul in cold reserve. Had Mrs. Casaubon come to say anything to her about Will? If so, it was a liberty that Rosamond resented; and she prepared herself to meet every word with polite impassibility. Will had bruised her pride too sorely for her to feel any compunction towards him and Dorothea: her own injury seemed much the greater. Dorothea was not only the ‘preferred’ woman, but had also a formidable advantage in being Lydgate’s benefactor; and to poor Rosamond’s pained confused vision it seemed that this Mrs. Casaubon— this woman who predominated in all things concerning her—must have come now with the sense of having the advantage, and with animosity prompting her to use it. Indeed, not Rosamond only, but any one else, knowing the outer facts of the case, and not the simple inspiration on which Dorothea acted, might well have wondered why she came.
罗莎蒙德裹着柔软的围巾，向多萝西娅走去，内心却将她的灵魂包裹在冰冷的保留之中。卡苏朋夫人来找她是想跟她说一些关于威尔的事情吗？如果是这样，罗莎蒙德就讨厌这种自由。她准备好以礼貌、冷漠的态度对待每一个字。威尔深深地伤害了她的自尊心，以至于她对他和多萝西娅没有任何愧疚：她自己受到的伤害似乎更大。多萝西娅不仅是“首选”的女人，而且作为利德盖特的恩人也拥有巨大的优势。在可怜的罗莎蒙德痛苦而混乱的视野中，这位卡苏邦夫人——这个在与她有关的所有事情上都占主导地位的女人——现在一定是带着一种拥有优势的感觉而来，并且带着敌意促使她利用它。事实上，不仅是罗莎蒙德，任何其他人，如果了解案件的外部事实，而不是多萝西娅采取行动的简单灵感，很可能会想知道她为什么来。

Looking like the lovely ghost of herself, her graceful slimness wrapped in her soft white shawl, the rounded infantine mouth and cheek inevitably suggesting mildness and innocence, Rosamond paused at three yards’ distance from her visitor and bowed. But Dorothea, who had taken off her gloves, from an impulse which she could never resist when she wanted a sense of freedom, came forward, and with her face full of a sad yet sweet openness, put out her hand. Rosamond could not avoid meeting her glance, could not avoid putting her small hand into Dorothea’s, which clasped it with gentle motherliness; and immediately a doubt of her own prepossessions began to stir within her. Rosamond’s eye was quick for faces; she saw that Mrs. Casaubon’s face looked pale and changed since yesterday, yet gentle, and like the firm softness of her hand. But Dorothea had counted a little too much on her own strength: the clearness and intensity of her mental action this morning were the continuance of a nervous exaltation which made her frame as dangerously responsive as a bit of finest Venetian crystal; and in looking at Rosamond, she suddenly found her heart swelling, and was unable to speak—all her effort was required to keep back tears. She succeeded in that, and the emotion only passed over her face like the spirit of a sob; but it added to Rosamond’s impression that Mrs. Casaubon’s state of mind must be something quite different from what she had imagined.
罗莎蒙德看起来就像是她自己可爱的鬼魂，柔软的白色披肩包裹着她优雅的苗条，婴儿般的圆润的嘴唇和脸颊不可避免地暗示着温和和天真，罗莎蒙德在距离她的访客三码远的地方停了下来，鞠了一躬。但多萝西娅脱下了手套，出于想要自由感时无法抗拒的冲动，她走上前来，脸上充满悲伤而甜蜜的开放，伸出了手。罗莎蒙德无法避免与她的目光对视，无法避免将她的小手放入多萝西娅的手中，多萝西娅以温柔的母性紧握着她的手。她的内心立刻开始对自己的先入之见产生了怀疑。罗莎蒙德的眼睛很快就能辨认出面孔。她看到卡苏朋夫人的脸色从昨天起就变得苍白、变了，但依然温柔，就像她的手一样坚定而柔软。但多萝西娅对自己的力量有些过于依赖了：今天早上她精神活动的清晰和强烈是一种神经兴奋的持续，这使她的身体像一块最好的威尼斯水晶一样危险地反应;看着罗莎蒙德，她突然发现自己的心在膨胀，说不出话来——她用尽全力才忍住泪水。她成功了，但情绪却像抽泣一样从她脸上掠过。但这更让罗莎蒙德觉得卡苏朋夫人的心境一定与她想象的完全不同。

So they sat down without a word of preface on the two chairs that happened to be nearest, and happened also to be close together; though Rosamond’s notion when she first bowed was that she should stay a long way off from Mrs. Casaubon. But she ceased thinking how anything would turn out—merely wondering what would come. And Dorothea began to speak quite simply, gathering firmness as she went on.
于是，他们二话不说，就坐在了最近的、也靠得很近的两张椅子上。尽管罗莎蒙德第一次鞠躬时的想法是她应该远离卡苏邦夫人。但她不再思考事情会如何发展——只是想知道会发生什么。多萝西娅开始说得很简单，越说越坚定。

‘I had an errand yesterday which I did not finish; that is why I am here again so soon. You will not think me too troublesome when I tell you that I came to talk to you about the injustice that has been shown towards Mr. Lydgate. It will cheer you—will it not?— to know a great deal about him, that he may not like to speak about himself just because it is in his own vindication and to his own honor. You will like to know that your husband has warm friends, who have not left off believing in his high character? You will let me speak of this without thinking that I take a liberty?’
“我昨天有件事没有完成；这就是为什么我这么快又来到这里。当我告诉你我来找你谈论利德盖特先生遭受的不公正待遇时，你不会认为我太麻烦了。如果你对他有很多了解，你会很高兴——不是吗？——他可能不喜欢仅仅因为这是为了他自己的辩护和他自己的荣誉而谈论自己。您想知道您的丈夫有热情的朋友，他们一直相信他的高尚品格吗？你会让我谈论这件事而不认为我冒昧吗？

The cordial, pleading tones which seemed to flow with generous heedlessness above all the facts which had filled Rosamond’s mind as grounds of obstruction and hatred between her and this woman, came as soothingly as a warm stream over her shrinking fears. Of course Mrs. Casaubon had the facts in her mind, but she was not going to speak of anything connected with them. That relief was too great for Rosamond to feel much else at the moment. She answered prettily, in the new ease of her soul—
亲切、恳求的语气似乎流淌着慷慨的疏忽，超越了罗莎蒙德脑海中充满的所有事实，这些事实是她和这个女人之间的阻碍和仇恨的理由，就像一股温暖的溪流抚平了她不断缩小的恐惧。卡苏朋夫人当然心里有数，但她不会谈论与这些事实有关的任何事情。这种解脱让罗莎蒙德此刻没有太多其他感觉。她带着新的轻松心情，漂亮地回答道——

‘I know you have been very good. I shall like to hear anything you will say to me about Tertius.’
‘我知道你一直很好。我很想听听你对我说的关于特蒂乌斯的任何事情。

‘The day before yesterday,’ said Dorothea, ‘when I had asked him to come to Lowick to give me his opinion on the affairs of the Hospital, he told me everything about his conduct and feelings in this sad event which has made ignorant people cast suspicions on him. The reason he told me was because I was very bold and asked him. I believed that he had never acted dishonorably, and I begged him to tell me the history. He confessed to me that he had never told it before, not even to you, because he had a great dislike to say, ‘I was not wrong,’ as if that were proof, when there are guilty people who will say so. The truth is, he knew nothing of this man Raffles, or that there were any bad secrets about him; and he thought that Mr. Bulstrode offered him the money because he repented, out of kindness, of having refused it before. All his anxiety about his patient was to treat him rightly, and he was a little uncomfortable that the case did not end as he had expected; but he thought then and still thinks that there may have been no wrong in it on any one’s part. And I have told Mr. Farebrother, and Mr. Brooke, and Sir James Chettam: they all believe in your husband. That will cheer you, will it not? That will give you courage?’
“前天，”多萝西娅说，“当我请他来洛威克就医院事务发表意见时，他告诉了我他在这起让无知的人们感到悲伤的事件中的一切行为和感受。对他产生怀疑。他之所以告诉我，是因为我很大胆地问了他。我相信他从未有过不光彩的行为，我恳求他告诉我这段历史。他向我承认，他以前从未告诉过这件事，甚至没有告诉过你，因为他非常不喜欢说“我没有错”，仿佛这就是证据，而有罪的人会这么说。事实上，他对莱佛士这个人一无所知，也不知道他有什么不好的秘密。他认为布尔斯特罗德先生之所以愿意给他这笔钱，是因为他出于善意而后悔之前拒绝了这笔钱。他对病人的所有焦虑都是为了正确地对待他，而案子并没有按照他预想的那样结束，他有点不舒服；但他当时想，现在仍然认为，这件事可能没有任何人有错。我已经告诉法尔布拉泽先生、布鲁克先生和詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士：他们都相信你的丈夫。这会让你高兴，不是吗？这会给你勇气吗？

Dorothea’s face had become animated, and as it beamed on Rosamond very close to her, she felt something like bashful timidity before a superior, in the presence of this self-forgetful ardor. She said, with blushing embarrassment, ‘Thank you: you are very kind.’
多萝西娅的脸变得生动起来，当它微笑着照在离她很近的罗莎蒙德身上时，在这种忘我的热情面前，她感到一种在上级面前害羞的胆怯。她尴尬地红着脸说道：“谢谢你，你真是太好了。”

‘And he felt that he had been so wrong not to pour out everything about this to you. But you will forgive him. It was because he feels so much more about your happiness than anything else— he feels his life bound into one with yours, and it hurts him more than anything, that his misfortunes must hurt you. He could speak to me because I am an indifferent person. And then I asked him if I might come to see you; because I felt so much for his trouble and yours. That is why I came yesterday, and why I am come to-day. Trouble is so hard to bear, is it not?— How can we live and think that any one has trouble—piercing trouble— and we could help them, and never try?’
“他觉得自己没有向你倾诉所有关于这件事的事情是非常错误的。”但你会原谅他的。这是因为他对你的幸福的感受比其他任何事情都多——他觉得他的生活与你的生活紧密相连，而他的不幸也必然会伤害你，这对他来说比任何事都更痛苦。他可以和我说话，因为我是一个冷漠的人。然后我问他我是否可以来看你；因为我对他和你的麻烦感到非常难过。这就是我昨天来的原因，也是我今天来的原因。麻烦是如此难以忍受，不是吗？——我们怎么能生活并认为任何人遇到麻烦——刺痛的麻烦——我们可以帮助他们，却从不尝试呢？

Dorothea, completely swayed by the feeling that she was uttering, forgot everything but that she was speaking from out the heart of her own trial to Rosamond’s. The emotion had wrought itself more and more into her utterance, till the tones might have gone to one’s very marrow, like a low cry from some suffering creature in the darkness. And she had unconsciously laid her hand again on the little hand that she had pressed before.
多萝西娅完全被自己所说的感觉所左右，忘记了一切，只记得她是出于自己对罗莎蒙德的考验而说的。她的言语中的情绪越来越强烈，直到语调深入骨髓，就像黑暗中某个受苦生物的低声哭泣。而她的手，又不自觉的放到了之前压着的小手上。

Rosamond, with an overmastering pang, as if a wound within her had been probed, burst into hysterical crying as she had done the day before when she clung to her husband. Poor Dorothea was feeling a great wave of her own sorrow returning over her— her thought being drawn to the possible share that Will Ladislaw might have in Rosamond’s mental tumult. She was beginning to fear that she should not be able to suppress herself enough to the end of this meeting, and while her hand was still resting on Rosamond’s lap, though the hand underneath it was withdrawn, she was struggling against her own rising sobs. She tried to master herself with the thought that this might be a turning-point in three lives— not in her own; no, there the irrevocable had happened, but— in those three lives which were touching hers with the solemn neighborhood of danger and distress. The fragile creature who was crying close to her—there might still be time to rescue her from the misery of false incompatible bonds; and this moment was unlike any other: she and Rosamond could never be together again with the same thrilling consciousness of yesterday within them both. She felt the relation between them to be peculiar enough to give her a peculiar influence, though she had no conception that the way in which her own feelings were involved was fully known to Mrs. Lydgate.
罗莎蒙德感到一阵难以忍受的剧痛，仿佛内心的伤口已被探查出来，突然歇斯底里地哭了起来，就像前一天她紧紧抓住丈夫时那样。可怜的多萝西娅感到自己的悲伤再次涌上心头——她的思绪被威尔·拉迪斯拉夫可能在罗莎蒙德的精神混乱中所扮演的角色所吸引。她开始担心自己无法压抑自己到会议结束，虽然她的手仍然放在罗莎蒙德的腿上，但下面的手已经缩回了，但她却在挣扎着抑制自己不断上升的抽泣。她试图控制自己，认为这可能是她三个人生的转折点——不是她自己的转折点；而是她自己的转折点。不，不可挽回的事情已经发生了，但是——在这三个生命中，她的生命充满了危险和痛苦的庄严邻里。这个在她身边哭泣的脆弱生物——也许还有时间把她从虚假的不相容关系的痛苦中拯救出来；这一刻与众不同：她和罗莎蒙德再也不能在一起了，两人内心都怀着昨天同样令人兴奋的意识。她觉得他们之间的关系很奇怪，足以给她带来一种特殊的影响，尽管她不知道利德盖特夫人完全了解她自己的感受。

It was a newer crisis in Rosamond’s experience than even Dorothea could imagine: she was under the first great shock that had shattered her dream-world in which she had been easily confident of herself and critical of others; and this strange unexpected manifestation of feeling in a woman whom she had approached with a shrinking aversion and dread, as one who must necessarily have a jealous hatred towards her, made her soul totter all the more with a sense that she had been walking in an unknown world which had just broken in upon her.
罗莎蒙德的经历中，这是一场比多萝西娅想象的更新的危机：她第一次受到巨大的冲击，这粉碎了她的梦想世界，在这个世界里，她很容易对自己充满信心，对别人也很挑剔；她的梦想世界被打破了。她带着一种逐渐减弱的厌恶和恐惧接近一个女人，因为她必然对她怀有嫉妒的仇恨，这种奇怪的、出乎意料的感情表现，让她的灵魂更加颤抖，感觉自己一直在走着一条不归路。未知的世界刚刚闯入她的内心。

When Rosamond’s convulsed throat was subsiding into calm, and she withdrew the handkerchief with which she had been hiding her face, her eyes met Dorothea’s as helplessly as if they had been blue flowers. What was the use of thinking about behavior after this crying? And Dorothea looked almost as childish, with the neglected trace of a silent tear. Pride was broken down between these two.
当罗莎蒙德抽搐的喉咙渐渐平静下来，抽出遮住脸的手帕时，她的眼睛像蓝色的花朵一样无助地与多萝西娅的眼睛相遇。哭完之后再思考行为有什么用呢？多萝西娅看起来几乎同样孩子气，脸上隐隐约约流着一滴无声的泪水。两人之间的骄傲被打破了。

‘We were talking about your husband,’ Dorothea said, with some timidity. ‘I thought his looks were sadly changed with suffering the other day. I had not seen him for many weeks before. He said he had been feeling very lonely in his trial; but I think he would have borne it all better if he had been able to be quite open with you.’
“我们正在谈论你的丈夫，”多萝西娅有些胆怯地说。 “我认为他的容貌因前几天的痛苦而发生了悲伤的变化。我已经好几个星期没见过他了。他说他在审判中感到非常孤独；但我认为，如果他能够对你开诚布公的话，他会更好地忍受这一切。

‘Tertius is so angry and impatient if I say anything,’ said Rosamond, imagining that he had been complaining of her to Dorothea. ‘He ought not to wonder that I object to speak to him on painful subjects.’
“如果我说什么，特蒂斯就会非常生气和不耐烦，”罗莎蒙德说道，想象着他一直在向多萝西娅抱怨她。 “他不应该奇怪我反对与他谈论痛苦的话题。”

‘It was himself he blamed for not speaking,’ said Dorothea. ‘What he said of you was, that he could not be happy in doing anything which made you unhappy—that his marriage was of course a bond which must affect his choice about everything; and for that reason he refused my proposal that he should keep his position at the Hospital, because that would bind him to stay in Middlemarch, and he would not undertake to do anything which would be painful to you. He could say that to me, because he knows that I had much trial in my marriage, from my husband’s illness, which hindered his plans and saddened him; and he knows that I have felt how hard it is to walk always in fear of hurting another who is tied to us.’
“他责怪自己没有说话，”多萝西娅说。 “他对你的评价是，他不会因为做任何让你不高兴的事情而感到高兴——他的婚姻当然是一种纽带，必然会影响他对一切的选择；出于这个原因，他拒绝了我的建议，即他应该保留在医院的职位，因为这将使他必须留在米德尔马奇，而且他不会承诺做任何会让你痛苦的事情。他可以对我这么说，因为他知道我的婚姻经历了很多考验，因为我丈夫的病，阻碍了他的计划，让他感到悲伤；他知道我已经感受到走路是多么困难，总是害怕伤害与我们联系在一起的另一个人。

Dorothea waited a little; she had discerned a faint pleasure stealing over Rosamond’s face. But there was no answer, and she went on, with a gathering tremor, ‘Marriage is so unlike everything else. There is something even awful in the nearness it brings. Even if we loved some one else better than—than those we were married to, it would be no use’—poor Dorothea, in her palpitating anxiety, could only seize her language brokenly—‘I mean, marriage drinks up all our power of giving or getting any blessedness in that sort of love. I know it may be very dear—but it murders our marriage— and then the marriage stays with us like a murder—and everything else is gone. And then our husband—if he loved and trusted us, and we have not helped him, but made a curse in his life—‘
多萝西娅等了一会儿。她察觉到罗莎蒙德的脸上掠过一丝淡淡的快乐。但没有得到回答，她继续说道，浑身颤抖不已，“婚姻与其他一切都不同。”它带来的亲近感甚至有些可怕。即使我们比——比那些我们结婚的人更爱别人，那也是没有用的”——可怜的多萝西娅，在她心悸的焦虑中，只能破碎地抓住她的语言——“我的意思是，婚姻耗尽了我们所有的力量。在这种爱中给予或获得任何祝福。我知道它可能非常昂贵——但它谋杀了我们的婚姻——然后婚姻就像一场谋杀一样留在我们身边——而其他一切都消失了。然后我们的丈夫——如果他爱我们、信任我们，而我们没有帮助他，反而诅咒了他——”

Her voice had sunk very low: there was a dread upon her of presuming too far, and of speaking as if she herself were perfection addressing error. She was too much preoccupied with her own anxiety, to be aware that Rosamond was trembling too; and filled with the need to express pitying fellowship rather than rebuke, she put her hands on Rosamond’s, and said with more agitated rapidity,—‘I know, I know that the feeling may be very dear—it has taken hold of us unawares—it is so hard, it may seem like death to part with it—and we are weak—I am weak—‘
她的声音很低：她害怕假设太过分，害怕说得好像她自己在解决错误时是完美的一样。她太专注于自己的焦虑，没有意识到罗莎蒙德也在发抖。她充满了表达怜悯的友谊而不是责备的需要，她把手放在罗莎蒙德的手上，并以更加激动的速度说道，“我知道，我知道这种感觉可能非常珍贵——它已经在不知不觉中抓住了我们——它太难了，与它分开似乎就像死亡——而我们很弱——我很弱——”

The waves of her own sorrow, from out of which she was struggling to save another, rushed over Dorothea with conquering force. She stopped in speechless agitation. not crying, but feeling as if she were being inwardly grappled. Her face had become of a deathlier paleness, her lips trembled, and she pressed her hands helplessly on the hands that lay under them.
她自己的悲伤的波浪，她正努力从悲伤中拯救另一个人，以征服的力量冲向多萝西娅。她激动得说不出话来。没有哭，只是感觉内心好像被揪住了一样。她的脸色变得更加苍白，嘴唇颤抖着，双手无助地按在了身下的双手上。

Rosamond, taken hold of by an emotion stronger than her own— hurried along in a new movement which gave all things some new, awful, undefined aspect—could find no words, but involuntarily she put her lips to Dorothea’s forehead which was very near her, and then for a minute the two women clasped each other as if they had been in a shipwreck.
罗莎蒙德被一种比她自己更强烈的情感所控制——以一种新的动作匆忙前行，这给一切带来了新的、可怕的、不确定的面貌——找不到言语，但她不由自主地把嘴唇贴在离她很近的多萝西娅的额头上。 ，然后有那么一分钟，两个女人紧紧地抱在一起，就像是在海难中一样。

‘You are thinking what is not true,’ said Rosamond, in an eager half-whisper, while she was still feeling Dorothea’s arms round her— urged by a mysterious necessity to free herself from something that oppressed her as if it were blood guiltiness.
“你在想什么不是真的，”罗莎蒙德急切地低声说道，同时她仍然感觉到多萝西娅的手臂搂着她——一种神秘的必要性催促着她摆脱那些压迫她的东西，就好像它是血统的罪孽一样。

They moved apart, looking at each other.
他们分开，互相看着对方。

‘When you came in yesterday—it was not as you thought,’ said Rosamond in the same tone.
“昨天你进来的时候——事情并不像你想象的那样，”罗莎蒙德用同样的语气说道。

There was a movement of surprised attention in Dorothea She expected a vindication of Rosamond herself.
多萝西娅露出了惊讶的神情，她期待着罗莎蒙德本人的平反。

‘He was telling me how he loved another woman, that I might know he could never love me,’ said Rosamond, getting more and more hurried as she went on. ‘And now I think he hates me because— because you mistook him yesterday. He says it is through me that you will think ill of him—think that he is a false person. But it shall not be through me. He has never had any love for me— I know he has not—he has always thought slightly of me. He said yesterday that no other woman existed for him beside you. The blame of what happened is entirely mine. He said he could never explain to you—because of me. He said you could never think well of him again. But now I have told you, and he cannot reproach me any more.’
“他告诉我他如何爱另一个女人，这样我就知道他永远不会爱我，”罗莎蒙德说，她说得越来越急。 “现在我认为他恨我是因为——因为你昨天误会了他。他说通过我你就会对他产生不好的看法——认为他是一个虚伪的人。但这不会通过我。他从来没有爱过我——我知道他没有——他总是轻视我。他昨天说除了你之外他不存在其他女人。发生的事情的责任完全是我的。他说他永远无法向你解释——因为我。他说你再也不能看好他了。但现在我已经告诉你了，他不能再责备我了。”

Rosamond had delivered her soul under impulses which she had not known before. She had begun her confession under the subduing influence of Dorothea’s emotion; and as she went on she had gathered the sense that she was repelling Will’s reproaches, which were still like a knife-wound within her.
罗莎蒙德在她以前不知道的冲动下释放了她的灵魂。她是在多萝西娅的情绪的压抑下开始忏悔的。当她继续说下去时，她感觉到自己正在排斥威尔的责备，这些责备仍然像刀伤一样留在她心里。

The revulsion of feeling in Dorothea was too strong to be called joy. It was a tumult in which the terrible strain of the night and morning made a resistant pain:—she could only perceive that this would be joy when she had recovered her power of feeling it. Her immediate consciousness was one of immense sympathy without cheek; she cared for Rosamond without struggle now, and responded earnestly to her last words—
多萝西娅内心的厌恶感太强烈了，不能称之为喜悦。这是一场骚乱，夜晚和早晨的可怕压力造成了一种难以忍受的疼痛：——只有当她恢复了感觉的能力时，她才能意识到这将是一种快乐。她的第一反应是一种毫不厚脸皮的巨大同情。她现在毫无挣扎地照顾着罗莎蒙德，并认真地回应着她的遗言——

‘No, he cannot reproach you any more.’
“不，他不能再责备你了。”

With her usual tendency to over-estimate the good in others, she felt a great outgoing of her heart towards Rosamond, for the generous effort which had redeemed her from suffering, not counting that the effort was a reflex of her own energy. After they had been silent a little, she said—
由于她通常倾向于高估别人的优点，她对罗莎蒙德感到一种强烈的感情，因为她慷慨的努力将她从痛苦中解救出来，更不用说这种努力是她自己能量的反射。两人沉默了一会儿后，她说道——

‘You are not sorry that I came this morning?’
“你对我今天早上来不感到遗憾吗？”

‘No, you have been very good to me,’ said Rosamond. ‘I did not think that you would be so good. I was very unhappy. I am not happy now. Everything is so sad.’
“不，你对我很好，”罗莎蒙德说。 ‘我没想到你会这么优秀。我很不高兴。我现在不高兴。一切都是如此悲伤。

‘But better days will come. Your husband will be rightly valued. And he depends on you for comfort. He loves you best. The worst loss would be to lose that—and you have not lost it,’ said Dorothea.
‘但更好的日子将会到来。你的丈夫会受到正确的重视。他依赖你来寻求安慰。他最爱你。最糟糕的损失就是失去它——而你并没有失去它，”多萝西娅说。

She tried to thrust away the too overpowering thought of her own relief, lest she should fail to win some sign that Rosamond’s affection was yearning back towards her husband.
她试图抛开过于强烈的自我解脱的想法，以免她无法赢得一些迹象，表明罗莎蒙德对她丈夫的感情正在渴望回归。

‘Tertius did not find fault with me, then?’ said Rosamond, understanding now that Lydgate might have said anything to Mrs. Casaubon, and that she certainly was different from other women. Perhaps there was a faint taste of jealousy in the question. A smile began to play over Dorothea’s face as she said—
“那么，特蒂乌斯没有对我挑剔吗？”罗莎蒙德说道，她现在明白了利德盖特可能对卡苏朋夫人说了些什么，而且她肯定与其他女人不同。也许这个问题里带着一丝嫉妒的味道。多萝西娅的脸上开始露出微笑，她说道：

‘No, indeed! How could you imagine it?’ But here the door opened, and Lydgate entered.
‘不，确实如此！你怎么能想象呢？”但是门开了，利德盖特走了进来。

‘I am come back in my quality of doctor,’ he said. ‘After I went away, I was haunted by two pale faces: Mrs. Casaubon looked as much in need of care as you, Rosy. And I thought that I had not done my duty in leaving you together; so when I had been to Coleman’s I came home again. I noticed that you were walking, Mrs. Casaubon, and the sky has changed—I think we may have rain. May I send some one to order your carriage to come for you?’
“我又恢复了医生的品质，”他说。 “我走后，两张苍白的脸一直困扰着我：卡苏邦夫人看起来和你一样需要照顾，罗西。我认为我没有尽到让你们在一起的义务；所以当我去过科尔曼家后，我又回到了家。我注意到你在走路，卡苏朋夫人，天空变了——我想我们可能会下雨。我可以派人叫马车来接你吗？

‘Oh, no! I am strong: I need the walk,’ said Dorothea, rising with animation in her face. ‘Mrs. Lydgate and I have chatted a great deal, and it is time for me to go. I have always been accused of being immoderate and saying too much.’
'不好了！我很坚强：我需要散步。”多萝西娅站起来，脸上充满活力。 '太太。利德盖特和我聊了很多，我该走了。我一直被指责为不节制、说得太多。”

She put out her hand to Rosamond, and they said an earnest, quiet good-by without kiss or other show of effusion: there had been between them too much serious emotion for them to use the signs of it superficially.
她向罗莎蒙德伸出手，他们真诚、安静地道别，没有亲吻或其他流露的表情：他们之间有太多严肃的情感，不能肤浅地使用它的迹象。

As Lydgate took her to the door she said nothing of Rosamond, but told him of Mr. Farebrother and the other friends who had listened with belief to his story.
当利德盖特带她到门口时，她没有提及罗莎蒙德，只是告诉他费雷布拉泽先生和其他朋友，他们都相信他的故事。

When he came back to Rosamond, she had already thrown herself on the sofa, in resigned fatigue.
当他回到罗莎蒙德身边时，她已经一屁股坐在沙发上，疲惫不堪。

‘Well, Rosy,’ he said, standing over her, and touching her hair, ‘what do you think of Mrs. Casaubon now you have seen so much of her?’
“好吧，罗西，”他站在她身旁，抚摸着她的头发，“既然你已经经常见到卡苏朋夫人了，你觉得她怎么样？”

‘I think she must be better than any one,’ said Rosamond, ‘and she is very beautiful. If you go to talk to her so often, you will be more discontented with me than ever!’
“我想她一定比任何人都优秀，”罗莎蒙德说，“而且她非常漂亮。”你要是经常去找她说话，你会对我更加不满！

Lydgate laughed at the ‘so often.’ ‘But has she made you any less discontented with me?’
利德盖特嘲笑“经常”。“但是她让你对我的不满减轻了吗？”

‘I think she has,’ said Rosamond, looking up in his face. ‘How heavy your eyes are, Tertius—and do push your hair back.’ He lifted up his large white hand to obey her, and felt thankful for this little mark of interest in him. Poor Rosamond’s vagrant fancy had come back terribly scourged—meek enough to nestle under the old despised shelter. And the shelter was still there: Lydgate had accepted his narrowed lot with sad resignation. He had chosen this fragile creature, and had taken the burthen of her life upon his arms. He must walk as he could, carrying that burthen pitifully.
“我想她做到了，”罗莎蒙德抬头看着他的脸说道。 “你的眼睛好重啊，特提乌斯——把你的头发向后梳。”他举起白皙的大手服从她，并为自己对他的这一点兴趣而感到感激。可怜的罗莎蒙德的流浪幻想回来后受到了严重的打击——温顺地依偎在旧的被鄙视的庇护所下。避难所仍然在那里：利德盖特悲伤地接受了他狭窄的命运。他选择了这个脆弱的生物，并用双臂承担了她的生命重担。他必须尽其所能地行走，可怜地背负着这个重担。

CHAPTER LXXXII
第LXXXII章

‘My grief lies onward and my joy behind.’
“我的悲伤在前方，我的欢乐在后方。”

—SHAKESPEARE: Sonnets.
——莎士比亚：十四行诗。

Exiles notoriously feed much on hopes, and are unlikely to stay in banishment unless they are obliged. When Will Ladislaw exiled himself from Middlemarch he had placed no stronger obstacle to his return than his own resolve, which was by no means an iron barrier, but simply a state of mind liable to melt into a minuet with other states of mind, and to find itself bowing, smiling, and giving place with polite facility. As the months went on, it had seemed more and more difficult to him to say why he should not run down to Middlemarch—merely for the sake of hearing something about Dorothea; and if on such a flying visit he should chance by some strange coincidence to meet with her, there was no reason for him to be ashamed of having taken an innocent journey which he had beforehand supposed that he should not take. Since he was hopelessly divided from her, he might surely venture into her neighborhood; and as to the suspicious friends who kept a dragon watch over her— their opinions seemed less and less important with time and change of air.
众所周知，流亡者以希望为食，除非迫不得已，否则他们不太可能继续流放。当威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫从米德尔马契流放时，他对自己的回归并没有设置比他自己的决心更强大的障碍，这绝不是一个铁壁垒，而只是一种容易与其他心态融为一体的小步舞曲的心态，并且发现自己鞠躬、微笑，并以礼貌的方式让座。几个月过去了，他似乎越来越难说为什么他不应该跑到米德尔马契——仅仅是为了听听有关多萝西娅的事情；但他却不愿意跑到米德尔马契去。如果在这样一次飞来飞去的旅途中，他因某种奇怪的巧合而与她相遇，他没有理由为自己踏上了一次他事先认为不应该踏上的无辜旅程而感到羞耻。既然他与她已经无可救药地分开了，他肯定会冒险去她家附近；至于那些用龙监视着她的多疑的朋友们——随着时间的推移和空气的变化，他们的意见似乎越来越不重要了。

And there had come a reason quite irrespective of Dorothea, which seemed to make a journey to Middlemarch a sort of philanthropic duty. Will had given a disinterested attention to an intended settlement on a new plan in the Far West, and the need for funds in order to carry out a good design had set him on debating with himself whether it would not be a laudable use to make of his claim on Bulstrode, to urge the application of that money which had been offered to himself as a means of carrying out a scheme likely to be largely beneficial. The question seemed a very dubious one to Will, and his repugnance to again entering into any relation with the banker might have made him dismiss it quickly, if there had not arisen in his imagination the probability that his judgment might be more safely determined by a visit to Middlemarch.
出现了一个与多萝西娅无关的原因，这似乎使米德尔马奇之旅成为一种慈善义务。威尔对远西地区一项新计划的预期解决方案给予了公正的关注，而为了实施良好的设计而需要资金，这让他开始与自己争论这是否是一个值得称赞的用途。他对布尔斯特罗德的要求是，敦促他使用提供给他的那笔钱，作为实施一项可能大有裨益的计划的手段。这个问题对威尔来说似乎是一个非常可疑的问题，如果他的想象中没有出现这样的可能性，即他的判断可能会更安全地由一个银行家决定，那么他对再次与银行家建立任何关系的厌恶可能会让他很快驳回它。参观米德尔马奇。

That was the object which Will stated to himself as a reason for coming down. He had meant to confide in Lydgate, and discuss the money question with him, and he had meant to amuse himself for the few evenings of his stay by having a great deal of music and badinage with fair Rosamond, without neglecting his friends at Lowick Parsonage:—if the Parsonage was close to the Manor, that was no fault of his. He had neglected the Farebrothers before his departure, from a proud resistance to the possible accusation of indirectly seeking interviews with Dorothea; but hunger tames us, and Will had become very hungry for the vision of a certain form and the sound of a certain voice. Nothing, had done instead— not the opera, or the converse of zealous politicians, or the flattering reception (in dim corners) of his new hand in leading articles.
这就是威尔对自己说的下楼理由的目的。他本想向利德盖特吐露心声，与他讨论金钱问题，他本想在逗留的几个晚上通过与美丽的罗莎蒙德一起享受大量音乐和戏谑来娱乐自己，同时又不忽略他在洛威克牧师学院的朋友们。 ：——如果牧师住宅离庄园很近，那也不是他的错。在离开之前，他忽视了费雷兄弟，因为他骄傲地抵制可能指责他间接寻求采访多萝西娅的指控。但饥饿驯服了我们，威尔变得非常渴望某种形式的景象和某种声音的声音。相反，什么也没做——没有歌剧，没有热心政治家的谈话，也没有在领导文章中对他的新手的奉承接待（在阴暗的角落）。

Thus he had come down, foreseeing with confidence how almost everything would be in his familiar little world; fearing, indeed, that there would be no surprises in his visit. But he had found that humdrum world in a terribly dynamic condition, in which even badinage and lyrism had turned explosive; and the first day of this visit had become the most fatal epoch of his life. The next morning he felt so harassed with the nightmare of consequences— he dreaded so much the immediate issues before him—that seeing while he breakfasted the arrival of the Riverston coach, he went out hurriedly and took his place on it, that he might be relieved, at least for a day, from the necessity of doing or saying anything in Middlemarch. Will Ladislaw was in one of those tangled crises which are commoner in experience than one might imagine, from the shallow absoluteness of men’s judgments. He had found Lydgate, for whom he had the sincerest respect, under circumstances which claimed his thorough and frankly declared sympathy; and the reason why, in spite of that claim, it would have been better for Will to have avoided all further intimacy, or even contact, with Lydgate, was precisely of the kind to make such a course appear impossible. To a creature of Will’s susceptible temperament—without any neutral region of indifference in his nature, ready to turn everything that befell him into the collisions of a passionate drama—the revelation that Rosamond had made her happiness in any way dependent on him was a difficulty which his outburst of rage towards her had immeasurably increased for him. He hated his own cruelty, and yet he dreaded to show the fulness of his relenting: he must go to her again; the friendship could not be put to a sudden end; and her unhappiness was a power which he dreaded. And all the while there was no more foretaste of enjoyment in the life before him than if his limbs had been lopped off and he was making his fresh start on crutches. In the night he had debated whether he should not get on the coach, not for Riverston, but for London, leaving a note to Lydgate which would give a makeshift reason for his retreat. But there were strong cords pulling him back from that abrupt departure: the blight on his happiness in thinking of Dorothea, the crushing of that chief hope which had remained in spite of the acknowledged necessity for renunciation, was too fresh a misery for him to resign himself to it and go straightway into a distance which was also despair.
他就这样下来了，满怀信心地预见到在他熟悉的小世界里几乎所有的事情都会发生。事实上，担心他的访问不会出现任何意外。但他发现这个单调的世界充满了活力，甚至恶作剧和抒情诗也变得爆炸性的。这次访问的第一天就成了他一生中最致命的时刻。第二天早上，他对后果的噩梦感到如此困扰——他非常害怕眼前的问题——当他吃早餐时，看到里弗斯顿教练的到来，他匆匆出去，在车上就座，这样他就可以了。至少有一天，我不再需要在米德尔马契做任何事或说任何话。威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫正处于一种错综复杂的危机之中，这种危机在经验中比人们想象的更为常见，因为人们的判断是肤浅的绝对性。他找到了利德盖特，对他怀有最诚挚的敬意，而他的处境却要求他彻底而坦率地表示同情。尽管有这样的说法，但威尔最好还是避免与利德盖特有任何进一步的亲密接触，甚至接触，正是因为这样的原因才显得不可能。对于威尔这样易受影响的人来说——他的本性中没有任何冷漠的中立区域，随时准备将发生在他身上的一切变成一场充满激情的戏剧的冲突——要揭露罗莎蒙德让她的幸福在任何方面都依赖于他是一个困难他对她的愤怒更加强烈了。 他痛恨自己的残忍，但又不敢表现出自己的全部仁慈：他必须再次去找她；他必须回到她身边。友谊不能突然结束；她的不幸是他害怕的力量。自始至终，他都没有预尝到眼前生活的乐趣，就像他的四肢被砍掉、拄着拐杖重新开始一样。那天晚上，他曾争论是否应该上车，不是为了里弗斯顿，而是为了伦敦，给利德盖特留下一张纸条，为他的撤退提供一个临时理由。但有一股强大的绳索把他从突然的离开中拉了回来：想到多萝西娅时他的幸福受到了损害，尽管承认有必要放弃，但仍然存在的主要希望被粉碎了，这对他来说是一种新的痛苦，无法辞职。自己走向它，径直走向同样绝望的距离。

Thus he did nothing more decided than taking the Riverston coach. He came back again by it while it was still daylight, having made up his mind that he must go to Lydgate’s that evening. The Rubicon, we know, was a very insignificant stream to look at; its significance lay entirely in certain invisible conditions. Will felt as if he were forced to cross his small boundary ditch, and what he saw beyond it was not empire, but discontented subjection.
因此，他除了接受里弗斯顿教练之外，没有做任何更决定的事情。天还亮的时候，他又回来了，他决定晚上一定要去利德盖特家。我们知道，卢比孔河是一条看上去微不足道的河流。它的意义完全在于某些看不见的条件。威尔感觉自己仿佛被迫跨过自己的小边界沟渠，而越过沟渠看到的不是帝国，而是不满的服从。

But it is given to us sometimes even in our every-day life to witness the saving influence of a noble nature, the divine efficacy of rescue that may lie in a self-subduing act of fellowship. If Dorothea, after her night’s anguish, had not taken that walk to Rosamond—why, she perhaps would have been a woman who gained a higher character for discretion, but it would certainly not have been as well for those three who were on one hearth in Lydgate’s house at half-past seven that evening.
但有时甚至在我们的日常生活中，我们也能见证高贵本性的拯救影响力，拯救的神圣功效可能存在于自我克制的团契行为中。如果多萝西娅在经历了一夜的痛苦之后没有步行去罗莎蒙德——为什么，她也许会成为一个在谨慎方面获得更高品格的女人，但对于同一个壁炉旁的三个人来说，情况肯定不会那么好。那天晚上七点半在利德盖特家里。

Rosamond had been prepared for Will’s visit, and she received him with a languid coldness which Lydgate accounted for by her nervous exhaustion, of which he could not suppose that it had any relation to Will. And when she sat in silence bending over a bit of work, he innocently apologized for her in an indirect way by begging her to lean backward and rest. Will was miserable in the necessity for playing the part of a friend who was making his first appearance and greeting to Rosamond, while his thoughts were busy about her feeling since that scene of yesterday, which seemed still inexorably to enclose them both, like the painful vision of a double madness. It happened that nothing called Lydgate out of the room; but when Rosamond poured out the tea, and Will came near to fetch it, she placed a tiny bit of folded paper in his saucer. He saw it and secured it quickly, but as he went back to his inn he had no eagerness to unfold the paper. What Rosamond had written to him would probably deepen the painful impressions of the evening. Still, he opened and read it by his bed-candle. There were only these few words in her neatly flowing hand:—
罗莎蒙德已经为威尔的来访做好了准备，她以一种无精打采的冷漠态度接待了他，利德盖特将她的原因解释为她神经衰弱，他不认为这与威尔有任何关系。当她默默地坐着弯腰干活时，他间接地天真地为她道歉，请求她向后靠去休息。威尔因为必须扮演一个第一次出现并向罗莎蒙德打招呼的朋友而感到痛苦，而他的思绪却忙于她自昨天那一幕以来的感受，这似乎仍然无情地包围着他们两人，就像痛苦的痛苦一样。双重疯狂的愿景。碰巧没有人叫利德盖特离开房间。但当罗莎蒙德倒出茶，威尔走近去取茶时，她在他的碟子里放了一小块折叠纸。他看到了它并迅速把它固定起来，但当他回到旅馆时，他并没有急于展开这张纸。罗莎蒙德写给他的信可能会加深当晚的痛苦印象。尽管如此，他还是在床边的蜡烛旁打开并阅读了这本书。她那流畅的手上只有这几个字：

‘I have told Mrs. Casaubon. She is not under any mistake about you. I told her because she came to see me and was very kind. You will have nothing to reproach me with now. I shall not have made any difference to you.’
“我已经告诉卡苏邦夫人了。她对你没有任何误解。我告诉她是因为她来看我并且非常友善。你现在没有什么可以责备我的了。我不会对你造成任何影响。

The effect of these words was not quite all gladness. As Will dwelt on them with excited imagination, he felt his cheeks and ears burning at the thought of what had occurred between Dorothea and Rosamond— at the uncertainty how far Dorothea might still feel her dignity wounded in having an explanation of his conduct offered to her. There might still remain in her mind a changed association with him which made an irremediable difference—a lasting flaw. With active fancy he wrought himself into a state of doubt little more easy than that of the man who has escaped from wreck by night and stands on unknown ground in the darkness. Until that wretched yesterday— except the moment of vexation long ago in the very same room and in the very same presence—all their vision, all their thought of each other, had been as in a world apart, where the sunshine fell on tall white lilies, where no evil lurked, and no other soul entered. But now—would Dorothea meet him in that world again?
这些话的效果并不完全是高兴。当威尔怀着兴奋的想象思考着它们时，一想到多萝西娅和罗莎蒙德之间发生的事情，他就感觉自己的脸颊和耳朵都在燃烧——不确定多萝西娅在接受他对他的行为的解释时，她的尊严可能还会受到多大的伤害。 。她心里可能仍然保留着与他的一种改变的联系，这种联系造成了不可弥补的影响——一个持久的缺陷。他凭借活跃的想象力使自己陷入一种怀疑的状态，这比一个在夜间从沉船中逃脱并站在黑暗中未知的地方的人更容易。直到那个不幸的昨天——除了很久以前在同一个房间、同一个在场的那一刻的烦恼——他们所有的视野，他们对彼此的所有想法，都像是在一个不同的世界，阳光洒在高高的白色上。百合花，那里没有邪恶潜伏，也没有其他灵魂进入。但现在——多萝西娅会在那个世界再次遇见他吗？

CHAPTER LXXXIII
第LXXXIII章

‘And now good-morrow to our waking souls
“现在，祝我们清醒的灵魂早安

Which watch not one another out of fear;
他们不会因为恐惧而互相注视；

For love all love of other sights controls,
为了爱所有对其他景点的爱控制，

And makes one little room, an everywhere.’
并让一个小房间，到处都是。

—DR. DONNE.
——博士。多恩。

On the second morning after Dorothea’s visit to Rosamond, she had had two nights of sound sleep, and had not only lost all traces of fatigue, but felt as if she had a great deal of superfluous strength— that is to say, more strength than she could manage to concentrate on any occupation. The day before, she had taken long walks outside the grounds, and had paid two visits to the Parsonage; but she never in her life told any one the reason why she spent her time in that fruitless manner, and this morning she was rather angry with herself for her childish restlessness. To-day was to be spent quite differently. What was there to be done in the village? Oh dear! nothing. Everybody was well and had flannel; nobody’s pig had died; and it was Saturday morning, when there was a general scrubbing of doors and door-stones, and when it was useless to go into the school. But there were various subjects that Dorothea was trying to get clear upon, and she resolved to throw herself energetically into the gravest of all. She sat down in the library before her particular little heap of books on political economy and kindred matters, out of which she was trying to get light as to the best way of spending money so as not to injure one’s neighbors, or— what comes to the same thing—so as to do them the most good. Here was a weighty subject which, if she could but lay hold of it, would certainly keep her mind steady. Unhappily her mind slipped off it for a whole hour; and at the end she found herself reading sentences twice over with an intense consciousness of many things, but not of any one thing contained in the text. This was hopeless. Should she order the carriage and drive to Tipton? No; for some reason or other she preferred staying at Lowick. But her vagrant mind must be reduced to order: there was an art in self-discipline; and she walked round and round the brown library considering by what sort of manoeuvre she could arrest her wandering thoughts. Perhaps a mere task was the best means—something to which she must go doggedly. Was there not the geography of Asia Minor, in which her slackness had often been rebuked by Mr. Casaubon? She went to the cabinet of maps and unrolled one: this morning she might make herself finally sure that Paphlagonia was not on the Levantine coast, and fix her total darkness about the Chalybes firmly on the shores of the Euxine. A map was a fine thing to study when you were disposed to think of something else, being made up of names that would turn into a chime if you went back upon them. Dorothea set earnestly to work, bending close to her map, and uttering the names in an audible, subdued tone, which often got into a chime. She looked amusingly girlish after all her deep experience— nodding her head and marking the names off on her fingers, with a little pursing of her lip, and now and then breaking off to put her hands on each side of her face and say, ‘Oh dear! oh dear!’
多萝西娅拜访罗莎蒙德后的第二天早上，她已经睡了两个晚上的好觉，不但没有了所有的疲倦，反而感觉自己好像多了很多多余的力气——也就是说，比以前更有力气了。她可以集中精力从事任何职业。前一天，她在场地外散步了很长时间，并两次拜访了牧师住宅。但她一生中从未告诉过任何人她为何以这种毫无结果的方式度过自己的时间，而今天早上，她对自己孩子气的焦躁不安感到相当生气。今天的度过方式完全不同。村里有什么可做的？哦亲爱的！没有什么。每个人都很好并且有法兰绒；没有人的猪死了；那是星期六早上，人们普遍擦洗门和门石，此时进学校是没有用的。但多萝西娅有很多事情想弄清楚，她决定全力以赴地把自己扔进最坟墓里。她在图书馆里坐下来，面前是那堆关于政治经济学和类似问题的特别书籍，她试图从中找出花钱的最佳方式，以免伤害邻居，或者——会发生什么同样的事情——以便为他们带来最大的好处。这是一个重大的话题，只要她能抓住它，她的心一定会保持稳定。不幸的是，整整一个小时她的思绪都没有放在心上。最后，她发现自己把句子读了两遍，对许多事情都有强烈的意识，但对文本中包含的任何一件事都没有强烈的意识。这是没有希望的。她应该订购马车并开往蒂普顿吗？不;出于某种原因，她更喜欢住在洛威克。 但她那漂泊的心灵必须归于秩序：自律是一门艺术；她在棕色的图书馆里绕了一圈又一圈，考虑着用什么样的策略才能阻止自己的胡思乱想。也许单纯的任务就是最好的手段——她必须坚持不懈地去做。难道不是因为小亚细亚的地理环境，卡苏朋先生经常斥责她的懒惰吗？她走到地图柜前，展开了一张：今天早上，她可能最终确定帕夫拉戈尼亚不在黎凡特海岸，并将查里布群岛周围的完全黑暗牢牢地固定在黑海海岸上。当你想思考其他事情时，地图是一个很好的研究对象，因为地图是由名字组成的，如果你回头再看的话，这些名字就会变成铃声。多萝西娅认真地开始工作，弯腰靠近她的地图，用清晰可闻的、柔和的语气说出这些名字，常常会发出钟声。在经历了这么多深刻的经历之后，她看起来像个有趣的女孩——点点头，在手指上记下名字，嘴唇微微撅起，时不时停下来，把手放在脸的两侧，说：“哦亲爱的！哦亲爱的！’

There was no reason why this should end any more than a merry-go-round; but it was at last interrupted by the opening of the door and the announcement of Miss Noble.
这一切没有理由像旋转木马一样结束。但最后，门被打开，诺布尔小姐宣布了消息，打断了这一切。

The little old lady, whose bonnet hardly reached Dorothea’s shoulder, was warmly welcomed, but while her hand was being pressed she made many of her beaver-like noises, as if she had something difficult to say.
这位小老妇人的帽子几乎没到多萝西娅的肩膀，她受到了热烈的欢迎，但当她的手被按下时，她发出许多海狸般的声音，好像有什么难以启齿的事情。

‘Do sit down,’ said Dorothea, rolling a chair forward. ‘Am I wanted for anything? I shall be so glad if I can do anything.’
“坐下吧，”多萝西娅一边说着，一边把椅子推到前面。 ‘我有什么需要吗？如果我能做点什么，我会很高兴。

‘I will not stay,’ said Miss Noble, putting her hand into her small basket, and holding some article inside it nervously; ‘I have left a friend in the churchyard.’ She lapsed into her inarticulate sounds, and unconsciously drew forth the article which she was fingering. It was the tortoise-shell lozenge-box, and Dorothea felt the color mounting to her cheeks.
“我不会留下来，”诺布尔小姐说，她把手伸进小篮子里，紧张地在里面夹着一些东西。 “我把一个朋友留在墓地里了。”她开始含糊其辞，无意识地拿出她正在摸着的那篇文章。那是龟甲菱形盒子，多萝西娅感到脸颊上的颜色越来越深。

‘Mr. Ladislaw,’ continued the timid little woman. ‘He fears he has offended you, and has begged me to ask if you will see him for a few minutes.’
'先生。拉迪斯瓦夫，”胆怯的小女人继续说道。 “他担心自己冒犯了你，并恳求我问你是否愿意见他几分钟。”

Dorothea did not answer on the instant: it was crossing her mind that she could not receive him in this library, where her husband’s prohibition seemed to dwell. She looked towards the window. Could she go out and meet him in the grounds? The sky was heavy, and the trees had begun to shiver as at a coming storm. Besides, she shrank from going out to him.
多萝西娅没有立即回答：她突然想到自己不能在这个图书馆里接待他，因为她丈夫的禁令似乎就在那里。她看向窗户。她可以出去到花园里去见他吗？天空阴沉沉的，树木开始颤抖，仿佛暴风雨即将来临。此外，她不敢和他出去。

‘Do see him, Mrs. Casaubon,’ said Miss Noble, pathetically; ‘else I must go back and say No, and that will hurt him.’
“一定要见见他，卡苏朋夫人，”诺布尔小姐可怜兮兮地说。 “否则我必须回去说不，那会伤害他。”

‘Yes, I will see him,’ said Dorothea. ‘Pray tell him to come.’
“是的，我会见他，”多萝西娅说。 “请告诉他来。”

What else was there to be done? There was nothing that she longed for at that moment except to see Will: the possibility of seeing him had thrust itself insistently between her and every other object; and yet she had a throbbing excitement like an alarm upon her— a sense that she was doing something daringly defiant for his sake.
还有什么事情要做呢？在那一刻，除了见到威尔之外，她没有什么渴望的：见到他的可能性不断地出现在她和其他一切事物之间；她渴望看到威尔。然而她却有一种悸动的兴奋，就像警报一样向她袭来——一种她正在为了他而做出大胆反抗的感觉。

When the little lady had trotted away on her mission, Dorothea stood in the middle of the library with her hands falling clasped before her, making no attempt to compose herself in an attitude of dignified unconsciousness. What she was least conscious of just then was her own body: she was thinking of what was likely to be in Will’s mind, and of the hard feelings that others had had about him. How could any duty bind her to hardness? Resistance to unjust dispraise had mingled with her feeling for him from the very first, and now in the rebound of her heart after her anguish the resistance was stronger than ever. ‘If I love him too much it is because he has been used so ill:’—there was a voice within her saying this to some imagined audience in the library, when the door was opened, and she saw Will before her.
当这位小女士小跑着去执行她的任务时，多萝西娅站在图书馆中央，双手合十，没有试图让自己保持一种庄严的昏迷状态。那时她最没有意识到的是自己的身体：她在想威尔心里可能在想什么，以及其他人对他的不满。任何责任怎么能让她变得冷酷无情呢？从一开始，她对不公正的诽谤的抵制就与他的感情交织在一起，而现在，在她痛苦过后内心的反弹中，这种抵制比以往任何时候都更加强烈。 “如果我太爱他，那是因为他被虐待了：”——当门打开时，她内心有一个声音对图书馆里想象中的观众说这句话，她看到威尔就在她面前。

She did not move, and he came towards her with more doubt and timidity in his face than she had ever seen before. He was in a state of uncertainty which made him afraid lest some look or word of his should condemn him to a new distance from her; and Dorothea was afraid of her OWN emotion. She looked as if there were a spell upon her, keeping her motionless and hindering her from unclasping her hands, while some intense, grave yearning was imprisoned within her eyes. Seeing that she did not put out her hand as usual, Will paused a yard from her and said with embarrassment, ‘I am so grateful to you for seeing me.’
她没有动，他朝她走来，脸上的疑惑和胆怯是她从未见过的。他处于一种不确定的状态，这让他害怕自己的某个眼神或言语会导致他与她保持新的距离。多萝西娅害怕自己的情绪。她看上去就像被施了魔咒，一动不动，不让她松开紧握的双手，眼眸里却禁锢着某种强烈而深沉的渴望。见她没有像往常一样伸出手，威尔在离她一码远的地方停了下来，不好意思地说：“我很感激你能见到我。”

‘I wanted to see you,’ said Dorothea, having no other words at command. It did not occur to her to sit down, and Will did not give a cheerful interpretation to this queenly way of receiving him; but he went on to say what he had made up his mind to say.
“我想见你，”多萝西娅说，没有其他话可说。她没有想到要坐下来，威尔也没有对这种女王般的接待方式做出愉快的解释。但他接着说出了他决定要说的话。

‘I fear you think me foolish and perhaps wrong for coming back so soon. I have been punished for my impatience. You know— every one knows now—-a painful story about my parentage. I knew of it before I went away, and I always meant to tell you of it if— if we ever met again.’
“我担心你认为我很愚蠢，也许是错误的，因为我这么快就回来了。”我因不耐烦而受到惩罚。你知道——现在每个人都知道——一个关于我出身的痛苦故事。我在离开之前就知道了，而且我一直想告诉你，如果——如果我们再次见面的话。

There was a slight movement in Dorothea, and she unclasped her hands, but immediately folded them over each other.
多萝西娅微微动了动，松开了双手，但又立即交叉在一起。

‘But the affair is matter of gossip now,’ Will continued. ‘I wished you to know that something connected with it—something which happened before I went away, helped to bring me down here again. At least I thought it excused my coming. It was the idea of getting Bulstrode to apply some money to a public purpose—some money which he had thought of giving me. Perhaps it is rather to Bulstrode’s credit that he privately offered me compensation for an old injury: he offered to give me a good income to make amends; but I suppose you know the disagreeable story?’
“但现在这件事已经成为八卦了，”威尔继续说道。 “我希望你知道，与此相关的一些事情——在我离开之前发生的事情，帮助我再次来到这里。至少我认为这是我来的借口。这个想法是让布尔斯特罗德将一些钱用于公共目的——他本来想给我的一些钱。也许布尔斯特罗德私下为我的旧伤提供了补偿，这才是值得赞扬的：他提出给我一份丰厚的收入来弥补；但我想你知道那个不愉快的故事吗？

Will looked doubtfully at Dorothea, but his manner was gathering some of the defiant courage with which he always thought of this fact in his destiny. He added, ‘You know that it must be altogether painful to me.’
威尔疑惑地看着多萝西娅，但他的态度正在积聚一些挑衅的勇气，他总是带着这种勇气来思考自己的命运。他补充道，“你知道这对我来说一定很痛苦。”

‘Yes—yes—I know,’ said Dorothea, hastily.
“是的——是的——我知道，”多萝西娅急忙说道。

‘I did not choose to accept an income from such a source. I was sure that you would not think well of me if I did so,’ said Will. Why should he mind saying anything of that sort to her now? She knew that he had avowed his love for her. ‘I felt that’— he broke off, nevertheless.
“我没有选择接受来自这种来源的收入。我确信如果我这样做，你不会看好我的。”威尔说。他现在为什么介意对她说这种话呢？她知道，他已经向她表白了他的爱。 “我感觉到了”——不过他停了下来。

‘You acted as I should have expected you to act,’ said Dorothea, her face brightening and her head becoming a little more erect on its beautiful stem.
“你的表现正如我预料的那样。”多萝西娅说道，她的脸变得明亮起来，美丽的茎上的头也变得更加直立起来。

‘I did not believe that you would let any circumstance of my birth create a prejudice in you against me, though it was sure to do so in others,’ said Will, shaking his head backward in his old way, and looking with a grave appeal into her eyes.
“我不相信你会让我出生的任何情况对我产生偏见，尽管在其他人身上肯定会这样做，”威尔说，用他的老方式向后摇着头，表情严肃。吸引她的目光。

‘If it were a new hardship it would be a new reason for me to cling to you,’ said Dorothea, fervidly. ‘Nothing could have changed me but—‘her heart was swelling, and it was difficult to go on; she made a great effort over herself to say in a low tremulous voice, ‘but thinking that you were different—not so good as I had believed you to be.’
“如果这是一种新的困难，那将是我依附于你的新理由，”多萝西娅热情地说。 “没有什么可以改变我，但是——‘她的心在膨胀，很难继续下去；’”她努力控制自己，用低沉而颤抖的声音说道：“但我觉得你与众不同——不像我想象的那么好。”

‘You are sure to believe me better than I am in everything but one,’ said Will, giving way to his own feeling in the evidence of hers. ‘I mean, in my truth to you. When I thought you doubted of that, I didn’t care about anything that was left. I thought it was all over with me, and there was nothing to try for—only things to endure.’
“除了一件事情之外，你肯定比我更相信我，”威尔说，在她的证据中屈服于自己的感觉。 “我的意思是，我对你说实话。当我以为你对此表示怀疑时，我就不再关心剩下的任何事情了。我以为我一切都结束了，没有什么可以尝试的，只有忍受的事情。

‘I don’t doubt you any longer,’ said Dorothea, putting out her hand; a vague fear for him impelling her unutterable affection.
“我不再怀疑你了，”多萝西娅伸出手说道。对他隐隐约约的恐惧驱使着她难以言表的感情。

He took her hand and raised it to his lips with something like a sob. But he stood with his hat and gloves in the other hand, and might have done for the portrait of a Royalist. Still it was difficult to loose the hand, and Dorothea, withdrawing it in a confusion that distressed her, looked and moved away.
他握住她的手，举到唇边，声音里带着抽泣的声音。但他站着，另一只手拿着帽子和手套，这可能是为了保皇党的肖像。尽管如此，还是很难松开那只手，多萝西娅在一种令她痛苦的混乱中收回了手，看了看，然后走开了。

‘See how dark the clouds have become, and how the trees are tossed,’ she said, walking towards the window, yet speaking and moving with only a dim sense of what she was doing.
“看看云变得多么黑，树木如何摇晃，”她一边说，一边朝窗户走去，但说话和走动时，对自己在做什么只有一种模糊的感觉。

Will followed her at a little distance, and leaned against the tall back of a leather chair, on which he ventured now to lay his hat and gloves, and free himself from the intolerable durance of formality to which he had been for the first time condemned in Dorothea’s presence. It must be confessed that he felt very happy at that moment leaning on the chair. He was not much afraid of anything that she might feel now.
威尔跟在她后面，隔了一小段距离，靠在一张皮椅的高高的靠背上，现在他冒险把帽子和手套放在上面，摆脱了他第一次注定要经历的令人难以忍受的拘谨。当着多萝西娅的面。必须承认，靠在椅子上的那一刻，他感觉很幸福。他不太害怕她现在可能感受到的任何事情。

They stood silent, not looking at each other, but looking at the evergreens which were being tossed, and were showing the pale underside of their leaves against the blackening sky. Will never enjoyed the prospect of a storm so much: it delivered him from the necessity of going away. Leaves and little branches were hurled about, and the thunder was getting nearer. The light was more and more sombre, but there came a flash of lightning which made them start and look at each other, and then smile. Dorothea began to say what she had been thinking of.
他们静静地站着，没有看对方，而是看着那些被翻腾着的常青树，它们在变黑的天空的衬托下露出苍白的叶子背面。威尔从来没有如此享受过暴风雨的前景：它使他免于离开的必要。树叶和小树枝被抛来抛去，雷声越来越近了。光线越来越昏暗，但一道闪电闪过，让他们吃惊地互相看了一眼，然后微笑起来。多萝西娅开始说出她一直在想的事情。

‘That was a wrong thing for you to say, that you would have had nothing to try for. If we had lost our own chief good, other people’s good would remain, and that is worth trying for. Some can be happy. I seemed to see that more clearly than ever, when I was the most wretched. I can hardly think how I could have borne the trouble, if that feeling had not come to me to make strength.’
‘你这样说是错误的，你没有什么可以尝试的。如果我们失去了自己的主要利益，其他人的利益仍然存在，这是值得努力的。有些人可以很高兴。当我最悲惨的时候，我似乎比以往任何时候都更清楚地看到这一点。如果不是那种感觉给我带来力量，我简直无法想象我该如何忍受这个麻烦。

‘You have never felt the sort of misery I felt,’ said Will; ‘the misery of knowing that you must despise me.’
“你从来没有经历过我所感受到的那种痛苦，”威尔说。 “知道你一定鄙视我的痛苦。”

‘But I have felt worse—it was worse to think ill—‘ Dorothea had begun impetuously, but broke off.
“但我感觉更糟了——想坏事更糟糕——”多萝西娅刚开始说话就很急躁，但很快就停住了。

Will colored. He had the sense that whatever she said was uttered in the vision of a fatality that kept them apart. He was silent a moment, and then said passionately—
会上色。他有一种感觉，无论她说什么，都是在一种将他们分开的宿命幻象中说出来的。他沉默了片刻，然后热情地说——

‘We may at least have the comfort of speaking to each other without disguise. Since I must go away—since we must always be divided—you may think of me as one on the brink of the grave.’
“我们至少可以放心地不加掩饰地互相交谈。既然我必须离开——因为我们必须永远分裂——你可能会认为我是一个濒临坟墓的人。

While he was speaking there came a vivid flash of lightning which lit each of them up for the other—and the light seemed to be the terror of a hopeless love. Dorothea darted instantaneously from the window; Will followed her, seizing her hand with a spasmodic movement; and so they stood, with their hands clasped, like two children, looking out on the storm, while the thunder gave a tremendous crack and roll above them, and the rain began to pour down. Then they turned their faces towards each other, with the memory of his last words in them, and they did not loose each other’s hands.
当他说话的时候，一道生动的闪电闪过，照亮了他们每一个人——那光似乎是对无望的爱情的恐惧。多萝西娅立刻从窗口冲了出去。威尔跟在她身后，痉挛般地握住她的手。他们就这样站着，双手紧握，像两个孩子一样，望着外面的暴风雨，雷声在他们头顶上发出巨大的轰鸣声，滚滚而下，雨开始倾盆而下。然后他们面朝对方，记着他的遗言，没有松开彼此的手。

‘There is no hope for me,’ said Will. ‘Even if you loved me as well as I love you—even if I were everything to you— I shall most likely always be very poor: on a sober calculation, one can count on nothing but a creeping lot. It is impossible for us ever to belong to each other. It is perhaps base of me to have asked for a word from you. I meant to go away into silence, but I have not been able to do what I meant.’
“我没有希望，”威尔说。 “即使你爱我就像我爱你一样——即使我对你来说就是一切——我很可能永远都很穷：根据清醒的计算，人们只能指望一小部分人。”我们不可能永远属于彼此。向你索要一句话也许是我的卑鄙行为。我本想安静地走开，但我没能做到我的意思。

‘Don’t be sorry,’ said Dorothea, in her clear tender tones. ‘I would rather share all the trouble of our parting.’
“别抱歉，”多萝西娅用她清澈温柔的语气说道。 “我宁愿分担我们分手时的所有烦恼。”

Her lips trembled, and so did his. It was never known which lips were the first to move towards the other lips; but they kissed tremblingly, and then they moved apart.
她的嘴唇颤抖着，他的嘴唇也颤抖着。永远不知道哪一个嘴唇首先移向另一个嘴唇；但他们接吻时都在颤抖，然后就分开了。

The rain was dashing against the window-panes as if an angry spirit were within it, and behind it was the great swoop of the wind; it was one of those moments in which both the busy and the idle pause with a certain awe.
雨点打在窗玻璃上，仿佛里面有一个愤怒的精灵，雨后是狂风的猛冲。这是忙碌的人和空闲的人都带着某种敬畏停下来的时刻之一。

Dorothea sat down on the seat nearest to her, a long low ottoman in the middle of the room, and with her hands folded over each other on her lap, looked at the drear outer world. Will stood still an instant looking at her, then seated himself beside her, and laid his hand on hers, which turned itself upward to be clasped. They sat in that way without looking at each other, until the rain abated and began to fall in stillness. Each had been full of thoughts which neither of them could begin to utter.
多萝西娅坐在离她最近的座位上，房间中央有一张长长的矮脚凳，双手交叉放在腿上，看着外面阴沉的世界。威尔一动不动地站着，看着她，然后坐在她身边，把手放在她的手上，她的手向上握住。他们就这样坐着，没有看对方，直到雨势减弱，开始寂静下来。每个人心里都充满了想法，但谁也说不出来。

But when the rain was quiet, Dorothea turned to look at Will. With passionate exclamation, as if some torture screw were threatening him, he started up and said, ‘It is impossible!’
但等雨停了，多萝西娅转头看向威尔。他激动地惊叹道：“这不可能！”

He went and leaned on the back of the chair again, and seemed to be battling with his own anger, while she looked towards him sadly.
他走过去，重新靠在椅背上，似乎在与自己的愤怒作斗争，而她则悲伤地看着他。

‘It is as fatal as a murder or any other horror that divides people,’ he burst out again; ‘it is more intolerable—to have our life maimed by petty accidents.’
“这就像谋杀或任何其他分裂人们的恐怖一样致命，”他再次爆发。 “更令人难以忍受的是，我们的生活因一些小事故而受到损害。”

‘No—don’t say that—your life need not be maimed,’ said Dorothea, gently.
“不——别这么说——你的生活不需要受到伤害，”多萝西娅温柔地说。

‘Yes, it must,’ said Will, angrily. ‘It is cruel of you to speak in that way—as if there were any comfort. You may see beyond the misery of it, but I don’t. It is unkind—it is throwing back my love for you as if it were a trifle, to speak in that way in the face of the fact. We can never be married.’
“是的，必须如此，”威尔愤怒地说。 “你这样说话太残忍了——好像有什么安慰似的。”你或许能看到其中的痛苦，但我却看不到。这是不仁慈的——在事实面前这样说话，等于把我对你的爱当作一件小事而丢掉了。我们永远不可能结婚。

‘Some time—we might,’ said Dorothea, in a trembling voice.
“有时候——我们可能会，”多萝西娅声音颤抖地说。

‘When?’ said Will, bitterly. ‘What is the use of counting on any success of mine? It is a mere toss up whether I shall ever do more than keep myself decently, unless I choose to sell myself as a mere pen and a mouthpiece. I can see that clearly enough. I could not offer myself to any woman, even if she had no luxuries to renounce.’
“什么时候？”威尔苦涩地说。 ‘指望我的成功有什么用？除了让自己保持体面之外，我是否还能做更多的事情，这只是一个折腾，除非我选择把自己仅仅作为一支笔和一个代言人出售。我看得很清楚。我不能把自己献给任何女人，即使她没有奢侈品可以放弃。”

There was silence. Dorothea’s heart was full of something that she wanted to say, and yet the words were too difficult. She was wholly possessed by them: at that moment debate was mute within her. And it was very hard that she could not say what she wanted to say. Will was looking out of the window angrily. If he would have looked at her and not gone away from her side, she thought everything would have been easier. At last he turned, still resting against the chair, and stretching his hand automatically towards his hat, said with a sort of exasperation, ‘Good-by.’
一片寂静。多萝西娅心里充满了想说的话，但话又太难了。她完全被它们迷住了：在那一刻，她内心的争论是无声的。而且她很难说出自己想说的话。威尔愤怒地看着窗外。如果他能看着她，不离开她的身边，她想一切都会变得容易一些。最后他转过身来，仍靠在椅子上，不自觉地将手伸向帽子，带着几分恼怒地说：“再见。”

‘Oh, I cannot bear it—my heart will break,’ said Dorothea, starting from her seat, the flood of her young passion bearing down all the obstructions which had kept her silent—the great tears rising and falling in an instant:”I don’t mind about poverty— I hate my wealth.’
“哦，我无法忍受——我的心都要碎了，”多萝西娅从座位上站起来，年轻的激情涌动，冲垮了所有让她保持沉默的障碍——大颗大颗的泪水瞬间升起又落下：我不介意贫穷——我讨厌我的财富。

In an instant Will was close to her and had his arms round her, but she drew her head back and held his away gently that she might go on speaking, her large tear-filled eyes looking at his very simply, while she said in a sobbing childlike way, ‘We could live quite well on my own fortune—it is too much—seven hundred a-year—I want so little—no new clothes—and I will learn what everything costs.’
转眼间，威尔就靠近了她，双臂搂住了她，但她却把头向后仰，轻轻地把他推开，以便她可以继续说话，她那双充满泪水的大眼睛非常简单地看着他，同时她用一种含糊的语气说道：孩子般地抽泣着，“靠我自己的财产，我们可以过得很好——太多了——一年七百块——我想要的很少——没有新衣服——我会知道所有东西要花多少钱。”

CHAPTER LXXXIV
第四十四章

‘Though it be songe of old and yonge,
“尽管这是古老而永恒的歌曲，

That I sholde be to blame,
我应该受到责备，

Theyrs be the charge, that spoke so large
他们是罪魁祸首，说得这么大

In hurtynge of my name.’
以我的名字命名。

—The Not-browne Mayde.
——非棕色梅德。

It was just after the Lords had thrown out the Reform Bill: that explains how Mr. Cadwallader came to be walking on the slope of the lawn near the great conservatory at Freshitt Hall, holding the ‘Times’ in his hands behind him, while he talked with a trout-fisher’s dispassionateness about the prospects of the country to Sir James Chettam. Mrs. Cadwallader, the Dowager Lady Chettam, and Celia were sometimes seated on garden-chairs, sometimes walking to meet little Arthur, who was being drawn in his chariot, and, as became the infantine Bouddha, was sheltered by his sacred umbrella with handsome silken fringe.
就在上议院否决了改革法案之后：这解释了卡德沃拉德先生为何走在弗雷希特大厅大温室附近的草坪斜坡上，手里拿着《泰晤士报》，身后背着一本《泰晤士报》。他以鳟鱼渔民的冷静态度向詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士谈论了国家的前景。卡德瓦拉德夫人、切塔姆夫人和西莉亚有时坐在花园的椅子上，有时步行去迎接小亚瑟，小亚瑟正被拉在他的战车上，就像婴儿菩萨一样，被他神圣的雨伞所庇护，他英俊潇洒。丝绸流苏。

The ladies also talked politics, though more fitfully. Mrs. Cadwallader was strong on the intended creation of peers: she had it for certain from her cousin that Truberry had gone over to the other side entirely at the instigation of his wife, who had scented peerages in the air from the very first introduction of the Reform question, and would sign her soul away to take precedence of her younger sister, who had married a baronet. Lady Chettam thought that such conduct was very reprehensible, and remembered that Mrs. Truberry’s mother was a Miss Walsingham of Melspring. Celia confessed it was nicer to be ‘Lady’ than ‘Mrs.,’ and that Dodo never minded about precedence if she could have her own way. Mrs. Cadwallader held that it was a poor satisfaction to take precedence when everybody about you knew that you had not a drop of good blood in your veins; and Celia again, stopping to look at Arthur, said, ‘It would be very nice, though, if he were a Viscount— and his lordship’s little tooth coming through! He might have been, if James had been an Earl.’
女士们也谈论政治，不过时​​断时续。卡德沃拉德夫人对贵族的有意创造很强烈：她从表弟那里确信特鲁伯里完全是在他妻子的怂恿下走到了另一边，从一开始介绍特鲁伯里就在空气中嗅到了贵族的味道。改革问题，并会签下她的灵魂，以取代她嫁给了男爵的妹妹。切塔姆夫人认为这种行为非常应受谴责，并记得特鲁贝里夫人的母亲是梅尔斯普林的沃尔辛厄姆小姐。西莉亚承认，做“女士”比做“夫人”更好，而且如果她能按自己的方式行事，多多从不介意优先顺序。卡德沃拉德夫人认为，当你周围的每个人都知道你的血管里没有一滴好血时，占据优先地位是一种很糟糕的满足感；西莉亚再次停下来看着亚瑟，说道：“不过，如果他是子爵的话，那就太好了——而且大人的小牙也长出来了！”如果詹姆斯是伯爵的话，他可能会是。

‘My dear Celia,’ said the Dowager, ‘James’s title is worth far more than any new earldom. I never wished his father to be anything else than Sir James.’
“我亲爱的西莉亚，”太后说道，“詹姆斯的爵位比任何新的伯爵爵位都更有价值。我从来不希望他的父亲成为詹姆斯爵士以外的任何人。

‘Oh, I only meant about Arthur’s little tooth,’ said Celia, comfortably. ‘But see, here is my uncle coming.’
“哦，我只是指亚瑟的小牙齿，”西莉亚轻松地说。 “但是看，我叔叔来了。”

She tripped off to meet her uncle, while Sir James and Mr. Cadwallader came forward to make one group with the ladies. Celia had slipped her arm through her uncle’s, and he patted her hand with a rather melancholy ‘Well, my dear!’ As they approached, it was evident that Mr. Brooke was looking dejected, but this was fully accounted for by the state of politics; and as he was shaking hands all round without more greeting than a ‘Well, you’re all here, you know,’ the Rector said, laughingly—
她出发去见她的叔叔，而詹姆斯爵士和卡德沃拉德先生则上前与女士们组成一组。西莉亚挽住了叔叔的手臂，叔叔颇为忧郁地拍拍她的手，“好吧，亲爱的！”当他们走近时，布鲁克先生显然看上去很沮丧，但这完全是因为他的状态。政治;当他到处握手时，除了一句“好吧，你们都在这里，你知道，”之外没有更多的问候，教区长笑着说——

‘Don’t take the throwing out of the Bill so much to heart, Brooke; you’ve got all the riff-raff of the country on your side.’
“布鲁克，别太在意法案的被否决；全国所有的流氓都站在你一边。

‘The Bill, eh? ah!’ said Mr. Brooke, with a mild distractedness of manner. ‘Thrown out, you know, eh? The Lords are going too far, though. They’ll have to pull up. Sad news, you know. I mean, here at home—sad news. But you must not blame me, Chettam.’
‘法案，嗯？啊！”布鲁克先生说道，语气中带着些许心不在焉的神情。 ‘被赶出去了，你知道吗？不过，上议院的做法太过分了。他们必须停下来。悲伤的消息，你知道。我的意思是，在家里——悲伤的消息。但你不能责怪我，切塔姆。”

‘What is the matter?’ said Sir James. ‘Not another gamekeeper shot, I hope? It’s what I should expect, when a fellow like Trapping Bass is let off so easily.’
“怎么了？”詹姆斯爵士问道。 “我希望猎场看守不会再次射门吧？当Trapping Bass这样的家伙如此轻易地被放走时，这就是我应该预料到的。”

‘Gamekeeper? No. Let us go in; I can tell you all in the house, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, nodding at the Cadwalladers, to show that he included them in his confidence. ‘As to poachers like Trapping Bass, you know, Chettam,’ he continued, as they were entering, ‘when you are a magistrate, you’ll not find it so easy to commit. Severity is all very well, but it’s a great deal easier when you’ve got somebody to do it for you. You have a soft place in your heart yourself, you know—you’re not a Draco, a Jeffreys, that sort of thing.’
‘猎场看守人？不，我们进去吧； “你知道，我可以告诉你们家里的一切，”布鲁克先生一边说着，一边向卡德瓦拉德夫妇点点头，表示他已经将他们纳入了自己的秘密之中。 “至于像诱捕巴斯这样的偷猎者，你知道，切塔姆，”当他们进入时，他继续说道，“当你是一名地方法官时，你会发现犯案并不那么容易。严肃性很好，但是当你有人为你做这件事时，事情就会容易得多。你自己心里也有一个柔软的地方，你知道的——你不是德拉科、杰弗里斯之类的人。

Mr. Brooke was evidently in a state of nervous perturbation. When he had something painful to tell, it was usually his way to introduce it among a number of disjointed particulars, as if it were a medicine that would get a milder flavor by mixing He continued his chat with Sir James about the poachers until they were all seated, and Mrs. Cadwallader, impatient of this drivelling, said—
布鲁克先生显然处于一种紧张不安的状态。当他有一些痛苦的事情要诉说时，他通常会用一些杂乱的细节来介绍它，就好像它是一种药物，通过混合可以得到更温和的味道。他继续与詹姆斯爵士谈论偷猎者，直到他们明白为止。大家都就座了，卡德沃拉德夫人对这种胡言乱语不耐烦了，说道——

‘I’m dying to know the sad news. The gamekeeper is not shot: that is settled. What is it, then?’
“我非常想知道这个悲伤的消息。猎场看守人没有被枪杀：这已经解决了。之后怎么样了？'

‘Well, it’s a very trying thing, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘I’m glad you and the Rector are here; it’s a family matter— but you will help us all to bear it, Cadwallader. I’ve got to break it to you, my dear.’ Here Mr. Brooke looked at Celia— ‘You’ve no notion what it is, you know. And, Chettam, it will annoy you uncommonly—but, you see, you have not been able to hinder it, any more than I have. There’s something singular in things: they come round, you know.’
“嗯，你知道，这是一件非常困难的事情，”布鲁克先生说。 “我很高兴你和校长在这里；这是一个家庭问题——但你会帮助我们所有人承受它，卡德沃拉德。我必须告诉你，亲爱的。”布鲁克先生看着西莉亚——“你不知道那是什么，你知道。而且，切塔姆，这会让你非常恼火——但是，你看，你无法阻止它，就像我一样。事情有一些奇怪的地方：你知道，它们会出现。

‘It must be about Dodo,’ said Celia, who had been used to think of her sister as the dangerous part of the family machinery. She had seated herself on a low stool against her husband’s knee.
“一定是关于多多的，”西莉亚说，她过去一直认为她的妹妹是家庭机器中危险的一部分。她坐在靠着丈夫膝盖的矮凳上。

‘For God’s sake let us hear what it is!’ said Sir James.
“看在上帝的份上，让我们听听这是什么！”詹姆斯爵士说道。

‘Well, you know, Chettam, I couldn’t help Casaubon’s will: it was a sort of will to make things worse.’
“嗯，你知道，切塔姆，我无法改变卡苏朋的意志：这是一种让事情变得更糟的意志。”

‘Exactly,’ said Sir James, hastily. ‘But WHAT is worse?’
“完全正确，”詹姆斯爵士急忙说道。 “但是更糟糕的是什么呢？”

‘Dorothea is going to be married again, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, nodding towards Celia, who immediately looked up at her husband with a frightened glance, and put her hand on his knee. Sir James was almost white with anger, but he did not speak.
“你知道，多萝西娅要再结婚了，”布鲁克先生对西莉亚点了点头，西莉亚立刻抬起头，用惊恐的眼神看着她的丈夫，然后把手放在了他的膝盖上。詹姆斯爵士气得脸色几乎苍白，但他没有说话。

‘Merciful heaven!’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘Not to YOUNG Ladislaw?’
“仁慈的老天啊！”卡德沃拉德夫人说道。 “不是给年轻的拉迪斯瓦夫吗？”

Mr. Brooke nodded, saying, ‘Yes; to Ladislaw,’ and then fell into a prudential silence.
布鲁克先生点点头说：“是的；”到拉迪斯瓦夫，”然后陷入谨慎的沉默。

‘You see, Humphrey!’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, waving her arm towards her husband. ‘Another time you will admit that I have some foresight; or rather you will contradict me and be just as blind as ever. YOU supposed that the young gentleman was gone out of the country.’
“你看，汉弗莱！”卡德沃拉德夫人一边说，一边向丈夫挥舞着手臂。 “下次你会承认我有一些先见之明；或者更确切地说，你会反驳我，并且像以前一样盲目。你以为这位年轻的绅士已经出国了。

‘So he might be, and yet come back,’ said the Rector, quietly
“他可能是这样，但还是回来了，”教区长平静地说

‘When did you learn this?’ said Sir James, not liking to hear any one else speak, though finding it difficult to speak himself.
“你什么时候学会这个的？”詹姆斯爵士说道，他不喜欢听别人说话，但自己却很难开口说话。

‘Yesterday,’ said Mr. Brooke, meekly. ‘I went to Lowick. Dorothea sent for me, you know. It had come about quite suddenly— neither of them had any idea two days ago—not any idea, you know. There’s something singular in things. But Dorothea is quite determined—it is no use opposing. I put it strongly to her. I did my duty, Chettam. But she can act as she likes, you know.’
“昨天，”布鲁克先生温顺地说。 “我去了洛威克。你知道，多萝西娅派人来找我。这件事发生得很突然——两天前他们俩都没有任何想法——没有任何想法，你知道。事物都有其独特之处。但多萝西娅心意已决——反对是没有用的。我强烈地向她提出了这一点。我尽了我的职责，切塔姆。但她可以随心所欲，你知道。”

‘It would have been better if I had called him out and shot him a year ago,’ said Sir James, not from bloody-mindedness, but because he needed something strong to say.
“如果我一年前就叫他出去并开枪打死他，那就更好了，”詹姆斯爵士说道，并不是出于血腥的想法，而是因为他需要说出一些强有力的话。

‘Really, James, that would have been very disagreeable,’ said Celia.
“说真的，詹姆斯，那会非常令人不快，”西莉亚说。

‘Be reasonable, Chettam. Look at the affair more quietly,’ said Mr. Cadwallader, sorry to see his good-natured friend so overmastered by anger.
“讲道理吧，切塔姆。” “冷静地看待这件事。”卡德沃拉德先生说道，他很遗憾地看到他好心的朋友被愤怒压垮了。

‘That is not so very easy for a man of any dignity—with any sense of right—when the affair happens to be in his own family,’ said Sir James, still in his white indignation. ‘It is perfectly scandalous. If Ladislaw had had a spark of honor he would have gone out of the country at once, and never shown his face in it again. However, I am not surprised. The day after Casaubon’s funeral I said what ought to be done. But I was not listened to.’
“对于一个有尊严、有正义感的人来说，当事情发生在他自己的家庭时，这并不是一件容易的事，”詹姆斯爵士说道，他的脸色仍然充满了白色的愤慨。 ‘这完全是可耻的。如果拉迪斯瓦夫还有一丝荣誉的话，他就会立刻出国，再也不会在国内露面。不过，我并不感到惊讶。卡苏朋葬礼后的第二天，我说了应该做什么。但我的意见没有被听取。

‘You wanted what was impossible, you know, Chettam,’ said Mr. Brooke. ‘You wanted him shipped off. I told you Ladislaw was not to be done as we liked with: he had his ideas. He was a remarkable fellow— I always said he was a remarkable fellow.’
“切塔姆，你知道，你想要的是不可能的事情，”布鲁克先生说。 ‘你想让他被送走。我告诉过你拉迪斯瓦夫不会按照我们喜欢的方式行事：他有他的想法。他是一个了不起的人——我总是说他是一个了不起的人。

‘Yes,’ said Sir James, unable to repress a retort, ‘it is rather a pity you formed that high opinion of him. We are indebted to that for his being lodged in this neighborhood. We are indebted to that for seeing a woman like Dorothea degrading herself by marrying him.’ Sir James made little stoppages between his clauses, the words not coming easily. ‘A man so marked out by her husband’s will, that delicacy ought to have forbidden her from seeing him again— who takes her out of her proper rank—into poverty—has the meanness to accept such a sacrifice—has always had an objectionable position— a bad origin—and, I BELIEVE, is a man of little principle and light character. That is my opinion.’ Sir James ended emphatically, turning aside and crossing his leg.
“是的，”詹姆斯爵士忍不住反驳道，“很遗憾你对他评价这么高。我们很感激他能住在这个社区。我们很感激像多萝西娅这样的女人嫁给他而贬低了自己。”詹姆斯爵士在他的条款之间几乎没有停顿，这句话不容易说出来。 “一个男人如此受她丈夫的意志所左右，以至于她应该禁止她再见到他——他让她脱离了她应有的地位——陷入了贫困——竟然卑鄙地接受了这样的牺牲——一直处于令人反感的地位——出身不好——而且，我相信，他是一个没有原则、性格轻浮的人。这是我的观点。”詹姆斯爵士转过身，盘起腿，强调地结束了讲话。

‘I pointed everything out to her,’ said Mr. Brooke, apologetically— ‘I mean the poverty, and abandoning her position. I said, ‘My dear, you don’t know what it is to live on seven hundred a-year, and have no carriage, and that kind of thing, and go amongst people who don’t know who you are.’ I put it strongly to her. But I advise you to talk to Dorothea herself. The fact is, she has a dislike to Casaubon’s property. You will hear what she says, you know.’
“我向她指出了一切，”布鲁克先生抱歉地说，“我指的是贫穷，以及放弃她的立场。”我说，“亲爱的，你不知道每年靠七百块钱生活，没有马车之类的事情，而且和那些不知道你是谁的人在一起是什么感觉。”我强烈地向她提出。但我建议你和多萝西娅本人谈谈。事实上，她不喜欢卡索邦的财产。你知道，你会听到她说的话。

‘No—excuse me—I shall not,’ said Sir James, with more coolness. ‘I cannot bear to see her again; it is too painful. It hurts me too much that a woman like Dorothea should have done what is wrong.’
“不——对不起——我不会，”詹姆斯爵士说道，语气更加冷静。 “我不忍心再次见到她；这太痛苦了。像多萝西娅这样的女人竟然做出了错误的事情，这让我太伤心了。”

‘Be just, Chettam,’ said the easy, large-lipped Rector, who objected to all this unnecessary discomfort. ‘Mrs. Casaubon may be acting imprudently: she is giving up a fortune for the sake of a man, and we men have so poor an opinion of each other that we can hardly call a woman wise who does that. But I think you should not condemn it as a wrong action, in the strict sense of the word.’
“公正点，切塔姆，”大嘴唇的教区长说，他反对所有这些不必要的不​​适。 '太太。卡苏朋的行为或许有些轻率：她为了一个男人而放弃了一大笔财产，而我们男人对彼此的评价是如此之低，以至于我们很难说这样做的女人是明智的。但我认为你不应该谴责它是严格意义上的错误行为。”

‘Yes, I do,’ answered Sir James. ‘I think that Dorothea commits a wrong action in marrying Ladislaw.’
“是的，我愿意，”詹姆斯爵士回答道。 “我认为多萝西娅与拉迪斯瓦夫结婚是错误的行为。”

‘My dear fellow, we are rather apt to consider an act wrong because it is unpleasant to us,’ said the Rector, quietly. Like many men who take life easily, he had the knack of saying a home truth occasionally to those who felt themselves virtuously out of temper. Sir James took out his handkerchief and began to bite the corner.
“我亲爱的朋友，我们很容易认为一种行为是错误的，因为它让我们不愉快，”校长平静地说。和许多随遇而安的人一样，他有诀窍，偶尔对那些觉得自己脾气暴躁的人说一些家喻户晓的真理。詹姆斯爵士拿出手帕，开始咬手帕的角。

‘It is very dreadful of Dodo, though,’ said Celia, wishing to justify her husband. ‘She said she NEVER WOULD marry again— not anybody at all.’
“不过，渡渡鸟真是太可怕了。”西莉亚说道，她想为丈夫辩护。 “她说她永远不会再结婚——根本不会嫁给任何人。”

‘I heard her say the same thing myself,’ said Lady Chettam, majestically, as if this were royal evidence.
“我听到她自己也说过同样的话，”切塔姆女士威严地说，仿佛这是皇家证据。

‘Oh, there is usually a silent exception in such cases,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘The only wonder to me is, that any of you are surprised. You did nothing to hinder it. If you would have had Lord Triton down here to woo her with his philanthropy, he might have carried her off before the year was over. There was no safety in anything else. Mr. Casaubon had prepared all this as beautifully as possible. He made himself disagreeable—or it pleased God to make him so—and then he dared her to contradict him. It’s the way to make any trumpery tempting, to ticket it at a high price in that way.’
“哦，在这种情况下通常会有一个无声的例外，”卡德沃拉德夫人说。 “对我来说唯一奇怪的是，你们中的任何一个人都感到惊讶。你没有做任何事来阻止它。如果你让特里顿勋爵来这里用他的慈善事业来吸引她，他可能会在这一年结束之前把她带走。其他任何事情都没有安全可言。卡苏邦先生把这一切都准备得尽可能完美。他让自己变得令人不快——或者说上帝很高兴让他如此——然后他就敢于与她反驳。这是让任何虚假行为都具有吸引力的方式，以这种方式以高价出售。”

‘I don’t know what you mean by wrong, Cadwallader,’ said Sir James, still feeling a little stung, and turning round in his chair towards the Rector. ‘He’s not a man we can take into the family. At least, I must speak for myself,’ he continued, carefully keeping his eyes off Mr. Brooke. ‘I suppose others will find his society too pleasant to care about the propriety of the thing.’
“我不知道你所说的错误是什么意思，卡德瓦拉德，”詹姆斯爵士说道，他仍然感到有点刺痛，然后在椅子上转身面向教区长。 “他不是我们可以带入家庭的人。至少，我必须为自己说话，”他继续说道，小心地将目光从布鲁克先生身上移开。 “我想其他人会发现他的社交太愉快了，不会关心事情是否得体。”

‘Well, you know, Chettam,’ said Mr. Brooke, good-humoredly, nursing his leg, ‘I can’t turn my back on Dorothea. I must be a father to her up to a certain point. I said, ‘My dear, I won’t refuse to give you away.’ I had spoken strongly before. But I can cut off the entail, you know. It will cost money and be troublesome; but I can do it, you know.’
“嗯，你知道，切塔姆，”布鲁克先生一边抚摸着自己的腿，一边幽默地说，“我不能背弃多萝西娅。”在某种程度上，我必须成为她的父亲。我说：“亲爱的，我不会拒绝把你送人的。”我之前就说过强硬的话。但你知道，我可以切断继承关系。既费钱又麻烦；但我能做到，你知道。”

Mr. Brooke nodded at Sir James, and felt that he was both showing his own force of resolution and propitiating what was just in the Baronet’s vexation. He had hit on a more ingenious mode of parrying than he was aware of. He had touched a motive of which Sir James was ashamed. The mass of his feeling about Dorothea’s marriage to Ladislaw was due partly to excusable prejudice, or even justifiable opinion, partly to a jealous repugnance hardly less in Ladislaw’s case than in Casaubon’s. He was convinced that the marriage was a fatal one for Dorothea. But amid that mass ran a vein of which he was too good and honorable a man to like the avowal even to himself: it was undeniable that the union of the two estates—Tipton and Freshitt— lying charmingly within a ring-fence, was a prospect that flattered him for his son and heir. Hence when Mr. Brooke noddingly appealed to that motive, Sir James felt a sudden embarrassment; there was a stoppage in his throat; he even blushed. He had found more words than usual in the first jet of his anger, but Mr. Brooke’s propitiation was more clogging to his tongue than Mr. Cadwallader’s caustic hint.
布鲁克先生向詹姆斯爵士点点头，觉得他既表现出了自己的决心力量，又安抚了男爵的烦恼。他想出了一种比他意识到的更巧妙的格挡方式。他触及了詹姆斯爵士感到羞耻的动机。他对多萝西娅与拉迪斯瓦夫的婚姻的大部分感觉部分是出于可以原谅的偏见，甚至是合理的观点，部分是由于对拉迪斯瓦夫的情况和卡苏朋的情况一样嫉妒的反感。他确信这场婚姻对多萝西娅来说是致命的。但在这群人中，有一种气质，他是一个太善良、太值得尊敬的人，甚至不喜欢向自己承认这一点：不可否认的是，蒂普顿和弗雷希特这两个庄园的联合迷人地躺在围墙内，是一个令他为他的儿子和继承人感到高兴的前景。因此，当布鲁克先生点头表示这一动机时，詹姆斯爵士突然感到尴尬。他的喉咙哽住了。他甚至脸红了。在第一次怒火中，他发现了比平时更多的话语，但布鲁克先生的安抚比卡德瓦拉德先生的尖酸刻薄的暗示更堵住了他的舌头。

But Celia was glad to have room for speech after her uncle’s suggestion of the marriage ceremony, and she said, though with as little eagerness of manner as if the question had turned on an invitation to dinner, ‘Do you mean that Dodo is going to be married directly, uncle?’
但西莉亚很高兴在她叔叔建议举行婚礼后有发言的余地，她说，虽然态度一点也不急切，就好像这个问题是在邀请晚餐一样，“你的意思是多多会直接结婚吧，叔叔？

‘In three weeks, you know,’ said Mr. Brooke, helplessly. ‘I can do nothing to hinder it, Cadwallader,’ he added, turning for a little countenance toward the Rector, who said—
“三周后，你知道，”布鲁克先生无助地说道。 “我无能为力阻止它，卡德沃拉德，”他补充道，转过身来对着教区长做了个侧脸，教区长说——

‘—I—should not make any fuss about it. If she likes to be poor, that is her affair. Nobody would have said anything if she had married the young fellow because he was rich. Plenty of beneficed clergy are poorer than they will be. Here is Elinor,’ continued the provoking husband; ‘she vexed her friends by me: I had hardly a thousand a-year—I was a lout—nobody could see anything in me— my shoes were not the right cut—all the men wondered how a woman could like me. Upon my word, I must take Ladislaw’s part until I hear more harm of him.’
「——我——不应该为此大惊小怪。如果她喜欢穷，那是她的事。如果她因为这个年轻人有钱而嫁给他，没有人会说什么。许多受益的神职人员比他们将要贫穷。这是埃莉诺，”这位挑衅的丈夫继续说道。 “她因为我而惹恼了她的朋友们：我一年收入还不到一千——我是个粗人——没人能看出我的任何优点——我的鞋子剪裁不合适——所有的男人都想知道一个女人怎么会喜欢我。我保证，我必须站在拉迪斯瓦夫一边，直到我听到他受到更多伤害为止。

‘Humphrey, that is all sophistry, and you know it,’ said his wife. ‘Everything is all one—that is the beginning and end with you. As if you had not been a Cadwallader! Does any one suppose that I would have taken such a monster as you by any other name?’
“汉弗莱，这都是诡辩，你知道的，”他的妻子说。 ‘一切都是一个——这就是你的开始和结束。就好像你不是卡德沃拉德一样！有人会认为我会给你这样的怪物起别的名字吗？

‘And a clergyman too,’ observed Lady Chettam with approbation. ‘Elinor cannot be said to have descended below her rank. It is difficult to say what Mr. Ladislaw is, eh, James?’
“而且还是个牧师。”切塔姆夫人赞许地说道。 ‘埃莉诺不能说已经降到了她的等级之下。很难说拉迪斯瓦夫先生是谁，嗯，詹姆斯？

Sir James gave a small grunt, which was less respectful than his usual mode of answering his mother. Celia looked up at him like a thoughtful kitten.
詹姆斯爵士轻轻哼了一声，这不像他平常回答母亲的方式那么尊重。西莉亚抬头看着他，就像一只若有所思的小猫。

‘It must be admitted that his blood is a frightful mixture!’ said Mrs. Cadwallader. ‘The Casaubon cuttle-fish fluid to begin with, and then a rebellious Polish fiddler or dancing-master, was it?— and then an old clo—‘
“必须承认，他的血液是一种可怕的混合物！”卡德沃拉德夫人说。 “首先是卡苏邦墨鱼液，然后是叛逆的波兰小提琴手或舞蹈大师，是吗？——然后是一件旧衣服——”

‘Nonsense, Elinor,’ said the Rector, rising. ‘It is time for us to go.’
“胡说，埃莉诺，”校长站起来说道。 “我们该走了。”

‘After all, he is a pretty sprig,’ said Mrs. Cadwallader, rising too, and wishing to make amends. ‘He is like the fine old Crichley portraits before the idiots came in.’
“毕竟，他是一棵漂亮的小树枝，”卡德瓦拉德夫人说，同时也站了起来，希望做出弥补。 “他就像白痴进来之前克里奇利的精美旧肖像一样。”

‘I’ll go with you,’ said Mr. Brooke, starting up with alacrity. ‘You must all come and dine with me to-morrow, you know—eh, Celia, my dear?’
“我和你一起去，”布鲁克先生兴致勃勃地说道。 “明天你们都必须来和我一起吃饭，你知道吗——呃，西莉亚，亲爱的？”

‘You will, James—won’t you?’ said Celia, taking her husband’s hand.
“你会的，詹姆斯——不是吗？”西莉亚拉着丈夫的手说道。

‘Oh, of course, if you like,’ said Sir James, pulling down his waistcoat, but unable yet to adjust his face good-humoredly. ‘That is to say, if it is not to meet anybody else.’:
“哦，当然，如果你愿意的话，”詹姆斯爵士一边说着，一边脱下马甲，但还无法调整好自己的表情。 “也就是说，如果不是为了见其他人的话。”：

‘No, no, no,’ said Mr. Brooke, understanding the condition. ‘Dorothea would not come, you know, unless you had been to see her.’
“不，不，不，”布鲁克先生说，他了解情况。 “你知道，多萝西娅不会来，除非你去看她。”

When Sir James and Celia were alone, she said, ‘Do you mind about my having the carriage to go to, Lowick, James?’
当詹姆斯爵士和西莉亚单独在一起时，她说：“詹姆斯，你介意我有马车去洛威克吗？”

‘What, now, directly?’ he answered, with some surprise.
“什么，现在直接？”他有些惊讶地回答。

‘Yes, it is very important,’ said Celia.
“是的，这非常重要，”西莉亚说。

‘Remember, Celia, I cannot see her,’ said Sir James.
“记住，西莉亚，我看不到她，”詹姆斯爵士说。

‘Not if she gave up marrying?’
“如果她放弃结婚就不行吗？”

‘What is the use of saying that?—however, I’m going to the stables. I’ll tell Briggs to bring the carriage round.’
「说这些有什么用？——不过，我要去马厩。」我会告诉布里格斯把马车开过来。

Celia thought it was of great use, if not to say that, at least to take a journey to Lowick in order to influence Dorothea’s mind. All through their girlhood she had felt that she could act on her sister by a word judiciously placed—by opening a little window for the daylight of her own understanding to enter among the strange colored lamps by which Dodo habitually saw. And Celia the matron naturally felt more able to advise her childless sister. How could any one understand Dodo so well as Celia did or love her so tenderly?
西莉亚觉得，就算不这么说，至少去洛威克一趟，影响多萝西娅的心智，也是有很大用处的。在他们的整个少女时代，她都觉得她可以通过一个明智的措辞来对待她的妹妹——打开一扇小窗，让她自己理解的阳光进入多多习惯性看到的奇怪的彩色灯之间。而主妇西莉亚自然觉得更有能力为她没有孩子的妹妹提供建议。怎么会有人像西莉亚那样理解多多，或者如此温柔地爱她呢？

Dorothea, busy in her boudoir, felt a glow of pleasure at the sight of her sister so soon after the revelation of her intended marriage. She had prefigured to herself, even with exaggeration, the disgust of her friends, and she had even feared that Celia might be kept aloof from her.
多萝西娅在闺房里忙碌着，一看到姐姐宣布要结婚，她就感到一阵欣喜。她甚至夸张地向自己预示了朋友们的厌恶，她甚至担心西莉亚可能会对她疏远。

‘O Kitty, I am delighted to see you!’ said Dorothea, putting her hands on Celia’s shoulders, and beaming on her. ‘I almost thought you would not come to me.’
“哦，基蒂，我很高兴见到你！”多萝西娅说道，她把手放在西莉亚的肩膀上，对着她微笑。 “我差点以为你不会来找我了。”

‘I have not brought Arthur, because I was in a hurry,’ said Celia, and they sat down on two small chairs opposite each other, with their knees touching.
“我没有带亚瑟来，因为我很赶时间。”西莉亚说道，然后他们坐在对面的两张小椅子上，膝盖碰在一起。

‘You know, Dodo, it is very bad,’ said Celia, in her placid guttural, looking as prettily free from humors as possible. ‘You have disappointed us all so. And I can’t think that it ever WILL be—you never can go and live in that way. And then there are all your plans! You never can have thought of that. James would have taken any trouble for you, and you might have gone on all your life doing what you liked.’
“你知道，多多，这非常糟糕，”西莉亚用平静的喉音说道，看上去尽可能没有幽默感。 ‘你让我们大家都很失望。我认为它永远不会是这样——你永远不能以那样的方式生活。然后就是你所有的计划！你永远不可能想到这一点。詹姆斯会为你排除一切麻烦，而你可能会一辈子做你喜欢做的事。”

‘On the contrary, dear,’ said Dorothea, ‘I never could do anything that I liked. I have never carried out any plan yet.’
“恰恰相反，亲爱的，”多萝西娅说，“我从来不能做任何我喜欢的事。我还没有执行过任何计划。”

‘Because you always wanted things that wouldn’t do. But other plans would have come. And how can you marry Mr. Ladislaw, that we none of us ever thought you COULD marry? It shocks James so dreadfully. And then it is all so different from what you have always been. You would have Mr. Casaubon because he had such a great soul, and was so and dismal and learned; and now, to think of marrying Mr. Ladislaw, who has got no estate or anything. I suppose it is because you must be making yourself uncomfortable in some way or other.’
‘因为你总是想要一些做不到的事情。但其他计划也会到来。你怎么能嫁给拉迪斯劳先生，我们谁也没想到你会嫁给他？这让詹姆斯非常震惊。然后一切都与你以前的样子截然不同了。你会拥有卡苏邦先生，因为他有如此伟大的灵魂，而且是如此的阴郁和博学；现在，考虑嫁给拉迪斯瓦先生，他没有财产或任何东西。我想这是因为你一定在某种程度上让自己感到不舒服。

Dorothea laughed.
多萝西娅笑了。

‘Well, it is very serious, Dodo,’ said Celia, becoming more impressive. ‘How will you live? and you will go away among queer people. And I shall never see you—and you won’t mind about little Arthur— and I thought you always would—‘
“嗯，事情非常严重，多多，”西莉亚说，变得更加令人印象深刻。 ‘你要怎样生活？然后你就会消失在奇怪的人群中。我永远不会见到你——你也不会介意小亚瑟——我以为你总是会——”

Celia’s rare tears had got into her eyes, and the corners of her mouth were agitated.
西莉亚罕见的泪水涌进了眼眶，嘴角也有些激动。

‘Dear Celia,’ said Dorothea, with tender gravity, ‘if you don’t ever see me, it will not be my fault.’
“亲爱的西莉亚，”多萝西娅语气温柔而严肃地说，“如果你永远见不到我，那也不是我的错。”

‘Yes, it will,’ said Celia, with the same touching distortion of her small features. ‘How can I come to you or have you with me when James can’t bear it?—that is because he thinks it is not right— he thinks you are so wrong, Dodo. But you always were wrong: only I can’t help loving you. And nobody can think where you will live: where can you go?’
“是的，会的，”西莉亚说，她那小小的五官同样动人地扭曲着。 “当詹姆斯无法忍受时，我怎么能去找你或让你和我在一起呢？——那是因为他认为这是不对的——他认为你错了，多多。但你总是错的：只是我情不自禁地爱你。没有人能想到你会住在哪里：你能去哪里？

‘I am going to London,’ said Dorothea.
“我要去伦敦，”多萝西娅说。

‘How can you always live in a street? And you will be so poor. I could give you half my things, only how can I, when I never see you?’
‘你怎么能一直住在街上呢？而你将会变得如此贫穷。我可以把我一半的东西给你，但当我见不到你的时候，我怎么能呢？

‘Bless you, Kitty,’ said Dorothea, with gentle warmth. ‘Take comfort: perhaps James will forgive me some time.’
“祝福你，基蒂，”多萝西娅语气温柔而温暖。 “放心吧：也许詹姆斯有一天会原谅我。”

‘But it would be much better if you would not be married,’ said Celia, drying her eyes, and returning to her argument; ‘then there would be nothing uncomfortable. And you would not do what nobody thought you could do. James always said you ought to be a queen; but this is not at all being like a queen. You know what mistakes you have always been making, Dodo, and this is another. Nobody thinks Mr. Ladislaw a proper husband for you. And you SAID YOU would never be married again.’
“但是如果你不结婚的话会好得多，”西莉亚说，擦干眼睛，继续她的争论。 ‘那么就不会有什么不舒服的事情了。而且你不会做没人认为你能做的事情。詹姆斯总是说你应该成为女王；但这根本不像女王。你知道你一直在犯什么错误，渡渡鸟，这是另一个错误。没有人认为拉迪斯瓦夫先生是你合适的丈夫。你还说你永远不会再结婚了。

‘It is quite true that I might be a wiser person, Celia,’ said Dorothea, ‘and that I might have done something better, if I had been better. But this is what I am going to do. I have promised to marry Mr. Ladislaw; and I am going to marry him.’
“确实，我可能是一个更聪明的人，西莉亚，”多萝西娅说，“如果我做得更好的话，我可能会做得更好。”但这就是我要做的。我已答应嫁给拉迪斯瓦夫先生；我要嫁给他。

The tone in which Dorothea said this was a note that Celia had long learned to recognize. She was silent a few moments, and then said, as if she had dismissed all contest, ‘Is he very fond of you, Dodo?’
多萝西娅说这句话的语气是西莉亚早就学会辨认的。她沉默了一会儿，然后说道，仿佛她已经排除了所有的争论：“他很喜欢你吗，多多？”

‘I hope so. I am very fond of him.’
'但愿如此。我非常喜欢他。

‘That is nice,’ said Celia, comfortably. ‘Only I rather you had such a sort of husband as James is, with a place very near, that I could drive to.’
“那太好了，”西莉亚轻松地说。 “只是我更希望你有一个像詹姆斯这样的丈夫，他的地方离我很近，我可以开车去。”

Dorothea smiled, and Celia looked rather meditative. Presently she said, ‘I cannot think how it all came about.’ Celia thought it would be pleasant to hear the story.
多萝西娅微笑着，西莉亚则显得颇为沉思。过了一会儿，她说：“我想不出这一切是怎么发生的。”西莉亚觉得听这个故事会很高兴。

‘I dare say not,’ said-Dorothea, pinching her sister’s chin. ‘If you knew how it came about, it would not seem wonderful to you.’
“我敢说不会。”多萝西娅捏着姐姐的下巴说道。 “如果你知道它是怎么发生的，你就会觉得这没什么了不起。”

‘Can’t you tell me?’ said Celia, settling her arms cozily.
“你不能告诉我吗？”西莉亚舒适地叉开双臂说道。

‘No, dear, you would have to feel with me, else you would never know.’
“不，亲爱的，你必须和我一起感受，否则你永远不会知道。”

CHAPTER LXXXV
第LXXXV章

“Then went the jury out whose names were Mr. Blindman, Mr. No-good, Mr. Malice, Mr. Love-lust, Mr. Live-loose, Mr. Heady, Mr. High-mind, Mr. Enmity, Mr. Liar, Mr. Cruelty, Mr. Hate-light, Mr. Implacable, who every one gave in his private verdict against him among themselves, and afterwards unanimously concluded to bring him in guilty before the judge. And first among themselves, Mr. Blindman, the foreman, said, I see clearly that this man is a heretic. Then said Mr. No-good, Away with such a fellow from the earth! Ay, said Mr. Malice, for I hate the very look of him. Then said Mr. Love-lust, I could never endure him. Nor I, said Mr. Live-loose; for he would be always condemning my way. Hang him, hang him, said Mr. Heady. A sorry scrub, said Mr. High-mind. My heart riseth against him, said Mr. Enmity. He is a rogue, said Mr. Liar. Hanging is too good for him, said Mr. Cruelty. Let us despatch him out of the way said Mr. Hate-light. Then said Mr. Implacable, Might I have all the world given me, I could not be reconciled to him; therefore let us forthwith bring him in guilty of death.’
然后评委们出来了，他们的名字分别是：盲人先生、无赖先生、恶意先生、情欲先生、放纵先生、兴奋先生、高尚先生、敌对先生、骗子、残酷先生、仇恨先生、无情先生，他们每个人都在私下里对他做出了不利于他的判决，然后一致决定在法官面前将他判有罪。首先，在他们中间，工头布林德曼先生说，我清楚地看到这个人是一个异教徒。然后坏先生说，把这样的人从地球上除掉！哎呀，恶意先生说，因为我讨厌他的样子。情欲先生接着说，我永远无法忍受他。我也没有，逍遥先生说。因为他总是会谴责我的做法。绞死他，绞死他，海迪先生说。心高气傲的先生说，这真是一次令人遗憾的磨砂膏。 “我的心开始反对他，”恩米蒂先生说。骗子先生说，他是个无赖。残酷先生说，绞刑对他来说太好了。 “让我们把他打发走吧”仇恨之光先生说道。然后，无情先生说，即使我把整个世界都给了我，我也无法与他和解；因此，让我们立即判处他死刑。

—Pilgrim’s Progress.
——天路历程。

When immortal Bunyan makes his picture of the persecuting passions bringing in their verdict of guilty, who pities Faithful? That is a rare and blessed lot which some greatest men have not attained, to know ourselves guiltless before a condemning crowd— to be sure that what we are denounced for is solely the good in us. The pitiable lot is that of the man who could not call himself a martyr even though he were to persuade himself that the men who stoned him were but ugly passions incarnate—who knows that he is stoned, not for professing the Right, but for not being the man he professed to be.
当不朽的班扬描绘了迫害激情并最终判决他们有罪时，谁会怜悯忠实者呢？这是一些最伟大的人物都没有达到的罕见而幸福的命运，在谴责的人群面前知道自己无罪——确保我们被谴责的只是我们身上的善良。可悲的是，一个人不能称自己为烈士，尽管他说服自己，那些用石头打死他的人只不过是丑陋的激情的化身——谁知道他被石头打死，不是因为自称是正义，而是因为不相信正义。他就是他自称的那个人。

This was the consciousness that Bulstrode was withering under while he made his preparations for departing from Middlemarch, and going to end his stricken life in that sad refuge, the indifference of new faces. The duteous merciful constancy of his wife had delivered him from one dread, but it could not hinder her presence from being still a tribunal before which he shrank from confession and desired advocacy. His equivocations with himself about the death of Raffles had sustained the conception of an Omniscience whom he prayed to, yet he had a terror upon him which would not let him expose them to judgment by a full confession to his wife: the acts which he had washed and diluted with inward argument and motive, and for which it seemed comparatively easy to win invisible pardon—what name would she call them by? That she should ever silently call his acts Murder was what he could not bear. He felt shrouded by her doubt: he got strength to face her from the sense that she could not yet feel warranted in pronouncing that worst condemnation on him. Some time, perhaps—when he was dying—he would tell her all: in the deep shadow of that time, when she held his hand in the gathering darkness, she might listen without recoiling from his touch. Perhaps: but concealment had been the habit of his life, and the impulse to confession had no power against the dread of a deeper humiliation.
当布尔斯特罗德准备离开米德尔马契，准备在那个悲伤的避难所结束他痛苦的一生时，布尔斯特罗德就在这种意识下枯萎了，新面孔的冷漠。他妻子的尽职仁慈和坚定不移让他摆脱了一种恐惧，但这并不能阻止她的存在仍然是一个法庭，在她面前他不敢认罪，也不愿寻求辩护。他对莱佛士之死的含糊其辞支持了他向他祈祷的全知者的概念，但他内心感到恐惧，不允许他通过向他的妻子完全坦白来将他们暴露在审判之下：他所做出的行为内心的争论和动机被洗涤和稀释，而且似乎相对容易赢得无形的赦免——她会用什么名字来称呼他们呢？她竟然默默地称他的行为为谋杀，这是他无法忍受的。他感到被她的怀疑所笼罩：他感到自己还没有理由对他发出最严厉的谴责，因此他有了面对她的力量。也许某个时候——当他临死的时候——他会告诉她一切：在那个时代的深深阴影中，当她在渐浓的黑暗中握着他的手时，她可能会倾听，而不会从他的触摸中退缩。也许吧，但隐瞒已成为他一生的习惯，坦白的冲动无法抵挡更深的羞辱的恐惧。

He was full of timid care for his wife, not only because he deprecated any harshness of judgment from her, but because he felt a deep distress at the sight of her suffering. She had sent her daughters away to board at a school on the coast, that this crisis might be hidden from them as far as possible. Set free by their absence from the intolerable necessity of accounting for her grief or of beholding their frightened wonder, she could live unconstrainedly with the sorrow that was every day streaking her hair with whiteness and making her eyelids languid.
他对妻子充满了胆怯的关心，不仅因为他不赞成她的任何严厉评判，而且因为看到她的痛苦，他感到深深的痛苦。她把女儿们送到海边的一所学校寄宿，这样可以尽可能地向她们隐藏这场危机。他们的缺席使她摆脱了无法忍受的悲伤或目睹他们惊恐的惊奇的必要性，她可以无拘无束地生活在悲伤中，悲伤每天都让她的头发变白，让她的眼皮变得无精打采。

‘Tell me anything that you would like to have me do, Harriet,’ Bulstrode had said to her; ‘I mean with regard to arrangements of property. It is my intention not to sell the land I possess in this neighborhood, but to leave it to you as a safe provision. If you have any wish on such subjects, do not conceal it from me.’
“哈丽特，告诉我你想让我做什么，”布尔斯特罗德对她说。 “我的意思是关于财产的安排。我不想卖掉我在这附近拥有的土地，而是把它留给你作为安全保障。如果你对这些问题有什么愿望，请不要向我隐瞒。”

A few days afterwards, when she had returned from a visit to her brother’s, she began to speak to her husband on a subject which had for some time been in her mind.
几天后，当她从哥哥那里回来时，她开始和丈夫谈论一个她已经考虑了一段时间的话题。

‘I SHOULD like to do something for my brother’s family, Nicholas; and I think we are bound to make some amends to Rosamond and her husband. Walter says Mr. Lydgate must leave the town, and his practice is almost good for nothing, and they have very little left to settle anywhere with. I would rather do without something for ourselves, to make some amends to my poor brother’s family.’
“我应该为我兄弟的家人做点什么，尼古拉斯；我认为我们有必要对罗莎蒙德和她的丈夫做出一些补偿。沃尔特说利德盖特先生必须离开小镇，他的做法几乎毫无用处，他们已经没有什么可以安顿下来的了。我宁愿为自己做点什么，为我可怜的兄弟的家人做出一些补偿。

Mrs. Bulstrode did not wish to go nearer to the facts than in the phrase ‘make some amends;’ knowing that her husband must understand her. He had a particular reason, which she was not aware of, for wincing under her suggestion. He hesitated before he said—
布尔斯特罗德夫人不想比“做出一些补偿”这句话更接近事实；她知道她的丈夫必须理解她。他在她的建议下畏缩是有特殊原因的，但她并不知道。他犹豫了一下才说道——

‘It is not possible to carry out your wish in the way you propose, my dear. Mr. Lydgate has virtually rejected any further service from me. He has returned the thousand pounds which I lent him. Mrs. Casaubon advanced him the sum for that purpose. Here is his letter.’
“按照你提议的方式实现你的愿望是不可能的，亲爱的。利德盖特先生实际上拒绝了我的任何进一步服务。他已经归还了我借给他的一千英镑。卡苏邦夫人为此预付了他一笔钱。这是他的信。

The letter seemed to cut Mrs. Bulstrode severely. The mention of Mrs. Casaubon’s loan seemed a reflection of that public feeling which held it a matter of course that every one would avoid a connection with her husband. She was silent for some time; and the tears fell one after the other, her chin trembling as she wiped them away. Bulstrode, sitting opposite to her, ached at the sight of that grief-worn face, which two months before had been bright and blooming. It had aged to keep sad company with his own withered features. Urged into some effort at comforting her, he said—
这封信似乎严重伤害了布尔斯特罗德夫人。提到卡苏邦夫人的贷款似乎反映了公众的一种感觉，即每个人都会理所当然地避免与她的丈夫发生联系。她沉默了一会儿。眼泪一滴一滴地掉下来，她擦着眼泪，下巴颤抖着。布尔斯特罗德坐在她对面，一看到那张因悲伤而疲惫不堪的脸，他就感到心痛，而两个月前，这张脸还显得明亮、容光焕发。与他自己枯萎的面容相伴，他已经老了。在催促她努力安慰她时，他说——

‘There is another means, Harriet, by which I might do a service to your brother’s family, if you like to act in it. And it would, I think, be beneficial to you: it would be an advantageous way of managing the land which I mean to be yours.’
“哈丽特，还有另一种方式，如果你愿意的话，我可以通过这种方式为你兄弟的家人提供服务。我认为这对你有利：这将是管理我打算属于你的土地的有利方式。

She looked attentive.
她看起来很专注。

‘Garth once thought of undertaking the management of Stone Court in order to place your nephew Fred there. The stock was to remain as it is, and they were to pay a certain share of the profits instead of an ordinary rent. That would be a desirable beginning for the young man, in conjunction with his employment under Garth. Would it be a satisfaction to you?’
“加斯曾经想过接管石阁的管理权，以便将你的侄子弗雷德安置在那里。股票保持原样，他们要支付一定份额的利润，而不是普通的租金。对于这位年轻人来说，加上他在加斯手下的工作，这将是一个理想的开始。这会让你满意吗？

‘Yes, it would,’ said Mrs. Bulstrode, with some return of energy. ‘Poor Walter is so cast down; I would try anything in my power to do him some good before I go away. We have always been brother and sister.’
“是的，会的，”布尔斯特罗德夫人说，恢复了一些精力。 “可怜的沃尔特非常沮丧；在我离开之前，我会尽我所能为他做点好事。我们一直都是兄弟姐妹。”

‘You must make the proposal to Garth yourself, Harriet,’ said Mr. Bulstrode, not liking what he had to say, but desiring the end he had in view, for other reasons besides the consolation of his wife. ‘You must state to him that the land is virtually yours, and that he need have no transactions with me. Communications can be made through Standish. I mention this, because Garth gave up being my agent. I can put into your hands a paper which he himself drew up, stating conditions; and you can propose his renewed acceptance of them. I think it is not unlikely that he will accept when you propose the thing for the sake of your nephew.’
“哈里特，你必须亲自向加斯求婚。”布尔斯特罗德先生说道，他不喜欢他所说的话，但他希望得到他所设想的结果，除了安慰妻子之外还有其他原因。 ‘你必须向他声明，这块土地实际上是你的，他不需要与我进行任何交易。可以通过 Standish 进行通信。我之所以提到这一点，是因为加斯放弃了我的经纪人身份。我可以将他亲自起草的一份文件交给你，说明条件；你可以建议他重新接受它们。我认为当你为了你的侄子提出这个建议时，他不太可能会接受。

CHAPTER LXXXVI
第四十六章

“Le coeur se sature d’amour comme d’un sel divin qui le conserve; de la l’incorruptible adherence de ceux qui se sont aimes des l’aube de la vie, et la fraicheur des vielles amours prolonges. Il existe un embaumement d’amour. C’est de Daphnis et Chloe que sont faits Philemon et Baucis. Cette vieillesse la, ressemblance du soir avec l’aurore.’
“Le coeur se sature d’amour comme d’un sel divin qui le conserve；对生活的美好目标和对旧爱的伤害的坚定不移的坚持会持续下去。我存在于爱情之中。这是达夫尼斯和克洛伊的儿子菲莱蒙和鲍西斯的故事。 Cette vieillesse la，ressemblance du soir avec l’aurore。

—VICTOR HUGO: L’homme qui rit.
——维克多·雨果：《L'homme qui rit》。

Mrs. Garth, hearing Caleb enter the passage about tea-time, opened the parlor-door and said, ‘There you are, Caleb. Have you had your dinner?’ (Mr. Garth’s meals were much subordinated to ‘business.’)
加斯太太听到凯勒进入下午茶时间的通道，就打开客厅的门，说道：“你来了，凯勒。”你吃过晚饭了吗？”（加斯先生的饭菜很大程度上服从于“生意”。）

‘Oh yes, a good dinner—cold mutton and I don’t know what. Where is Mary?’
“哦，是的，一顿丰盛的晚餐——冷羊肉和我不知道是什么。玛丽在哪里？

‘In the garden with Letty, I think.’
“我想是和莱蒂在花园里。”

‘Fred is not come yet?’
“弗雷德还没来吗？”

‘No. Are you going out again without taking tea, Caleb?’ said Mrs. Garth, seeing that her absent-minded husband was putting on again the hat which he had just taken off.
'不。 “凯莱布，你不喝茶就又出去了吗？”加斯太太问道，她看到心不在焉的丈夫又戴上了刚刚摘下的帽子。

‘No, no; I’m only going to Mary a minute.’
'不，不;我只去玛丽一分钟。

Mary was in a grassy corner of the garden, where there was a swing loftily hung between two pear-trees. She had a pink kerchief tied over her head, making a little poke to shade her eyes from the level sunbeams, while she was giving a glorious swing to Letty, who laughed and screamed wildly.
玛丽在花园的一个长满草的角落里，两棵梨树之间高高地挂着一个秋千。她头上系着一条粉红色的头巾，稍微戳了一下，以遮住眼睛免受水平阳光的照射，同时她正在给莱蒂一个华丽的秋千，而莱蒂又笑又疯狂地尖叫。

Seeing her father, Mary left the swing and went to meet him, pushing back the pink kerchief and smiling afar off at him with the involuntary smile of loving pleasure.
看到父亲，玛丽离开了秋千，去迎接他，推开粉红色的头巾，远远地对他微笑，脸上不自觉地带着爱意和愉悦的微笑。

‘I came to look for you, Mary,’ said Mr. Garth. ‘Let us-walk about a bit.’ Mary knew quite well that her father had something particular to say: his eyebrows made their pathetic angle, and there was a tender gravity in his voice: these things had been signs to her when she was Letty’s age. She put her arm within his, and they turned by the row of nut-trees.
“我来找你，玛丽，”加斯先生说。 “我们——走一走吧。”玛丽很清楚，她父亲有话要说：他的眉毛令人可怜地皱起，声音里有一种温柔的严肃：当她还在的时候，这些事情就向她发出了信号。莱蒂的年龄。她挽着他的手臂，他们拐过那排坚果树。

‘It will be a sad while before you can be married, Mary,’ said her father, not looking at her, but at the end of the stick which he held in his other hand.
“玛丽，在你结婚之前，你会经历一段悲伤的时光，”她的父亲说，他没有看她，而是看着他另一只手里拿着的棍子末端。

‘Not a sad while, father—I mean to be merry,’ said Mary, laughingly. ‘I have been single and merry for four-and-twenty years and more: I suppose it will not be quite as long again as that.’ Then, after a little pause, she said, more gravely, bending her face before her father’s, ‘If you are contented with Fred?’
“不是悲伤的时刻，父亲——我的意思是要快乐，”玛丽笑着说。 “我已经单身快乐了四年二十年多了：我想不会再有那么长的时间了。”然后，停顿了一下，她在父亲面前弯下脸，更加严肃地说。 ，“你对弗雷德满意吗？”

Caleb screwed up his mouth and turned his head aside wisely.
凯勒布抿起嘴，明智地把头扭到一边。

‘Now, father, you did praise him last Wednesday. You said he had an uncommon notion of stock, and a good eye for things.’
“现在，父亲，上周三你确实表扬了他。你说他对股票有一种不寻常的观念，而且对事物有敏锐的洞察力。

‘Did I?’ said Caleb, rather slyly.
“是吗？”凯莱布相当狡猾地说道。

‘Yes, I put it all down, and the date, anno Domini, and everything,’ said Mary. ‘You like things to be neatly booked. And then his behavior to you, father, is really good; he has a deep respect for you; and it is impossible to have a better temper than Fred has.’
“是的，我把一切都记下来了，还有日期，多米尼，以及一切，”玛丽说。 “你喜欢把事情安排得井井有条。父亲，他对您的行为真的很好；他对你怀有深深的敬意；不可能有比弗雷德更好的脾气了。”

‘Ay, ay; you want to coax me into thinking him a fine match.’
‘哎呀，哎呀；你想哄我相信他是很般配的。”

‘No, indeed, father. I don’t love him because he is a fine match.’
“不，确实如此，父亲。我爱他并不是因为他很般配。”

‘What for, then?’
“那是为了什么？”

‘Oh, dear, because I have always loved him. I should never like scolding any one else so well; and that is a point to be thought of in a husband.’
“哦，亲爱的，因为我一直爱他。我从来不喜欢骂别人这么好；这是丈夫应该考虑的一点。

‘Your mind is quite settled, then, Mary?’ said Caleb, returning to his first tone. ‘There’s no other wish come into it since things have been going on as they have been of late?’ (Caleb meant a great deal in that vague phrase;) ‘because, better late than never. A woman must not force her heart—she’ll do a man no good by that.’
“那么，玛丽，你的想法已经很稳定了吗？”凯莱布又恢复了原来的语气。 “既然事情一直在发生，就没有其他愿望了？”（迦勒在这句含糊的短语中意思很深；）“因为，迟到总比不好。”女人不能强迫自己的心——这样对男人没有任何好处。

‘My feelings have not changed, father,’ said Mary, calmly. ‘I shall be constant to Fred as long as he is constant to me. I don’t think either of us could spare the other, or like any one else better, however much we might admire them. It would make too great a difference to us—like seeing all the old places altered, and changing the name for everything. We must wait for each other a long while; but Fred knows that.’
“我的感觉没有改变，父亲，”玛丽平静地说。 “只要弗雷德对我始终如一，我就会对他始终如一。”我认为我们中的任何一个人都无法饶恕对方，或者更喜欢其他人，无论我们多么钦佩他们。这对我们来说影响太大了——就像看到所有旧地方都被改变，所有东西都改了名字一样。我们必须彼此等待很长一段时间；但弗雷德知道这一点。

Instead of speaking immediately, Caleb stood still and screwed his stick on the grassy walk. Then he said, with emotion in his voice, ‘Well, I’ve got a bit of news. What do you think of Fred going to live at Stone Court, and managing the land there?’
迦勒没有立即说话，而是一动不动地站着，把拐杖拧在草地上的人行道上。然后他语气激动地说：“好吧，我有一些消息。”你觉得弗雷德住在石阁并管理那里的土地怎么样？

‘How can that ever be, father?’ said Mary, wonderingly.
“怎么可能，父亲？”玛丽疑惑地说。

‘He would manage it for his aunt Bulstrode. The poor woman has been to me begging and praying. She wants to do the lad good, and it might be a fine thing for him. With saving, he might gradually buy the stock, and he has a turn for farming.’
“他会为他的姨妈布尔斯特罗德处理这件事。那个可怜的女人一直向我乞求和祈祷。她想为这个小伙子做好事，这对他来说可能是件好事。有了积蓄，他可能会逐渐购买股票，并轮到他种田了。

‘Oh, Fred would be so happy! It is too good to believe.’
‘哦，弗雷德会很高兴的！这太好了，令人难以置信。

‘Ah, but mind you,’ said Caleb, turning his head warningly, ‘I must take it on MY shoulders, and be responsible, and see after everything; and that will grieve your mother a bit, though she mayn’t say so. Fred had need be careful.’
“啊，但请注意，”迦勒转过头警告道，“我必须把这件事扛在肩上，负责，照顾好一切；这会让你妈妈有点伤心，尽管她可能不会这么说。弗雷德需要小心。

‘Perhaps it is too much, father,’ said Mary, checked in her joy. ‘There would be no happiness in bringing you any fresh trouble.’
“也许这太过分了，父亲，”玛丽说，抑制住了她的喜悦。 “给你带来任何新的麻烦是不愉快的。”

‘Nay, nay; work is my delight, child, when it doesn’t vex your mother. And then, if you and Fred get married,’ here Caleb’s voice shook just perceptibly, ‘he’ll be steady and saving; and you’ve got your mother’s cleverness, and mine too, in a woman’s sort of way; and you’ll keep him in order. He’ll be coming by-and-by, so I wanted to tell you first, because I think you’d like to tell HIM by yourselves. After that, I could talk it well over with him, and we could go into business and the nature of things.’
‘不，不；孩子，工作是我的乐趣，只要它不惹恼你的母亲。然后，如果你和弗雷德结婚，”凯莱布的声音明显地颤抖着，“他就会变得稳定、节俭；”你继承了你母亲的聪明才智，也继承了我母亲的聪明才智，就像女人一样；你会让他保持秩序。他很快就会来，所以我想先告诉你，因为我想你想自己告诉他。之后，我可以和他好好谈谈，然后我们就可以讨论生意和事物的本质。

‘Oh, you dear good father!’ cried Mary, putting her hands round her father’s neck, while he bent his head placidly, willing to be caressed. ‘I wonder if any other girl thinks her father the best man in the world!’
“哦，你亲爱的好父亲！”玛丽喊道，双手搂住父亲的脖子，而他则平静地低着头，愿意被爱抚。 “我想知道是否有其他女孩认为她的父亲是世界上最好的男人！”

‘Nonsense, child; you’ll think your husband better.’
‘胡说，孩子；你会认为你的丈夫更好。

‘Impossible,’ said Mary, relapsing into her usual tone; ‘husbands are an inferior class of men, who require keeping in order.’
“不可能，”玛丽恢复了平常的语气说道。 “丈夫是低等的男人，需要保持秩序。”

When they were entering the house with Letty, who had run to join them, Mary saw Fred at the orchard-gate, and went to meet him.
当他们和莱蒂一起进屋时，莱蒂跑来加入他们，玛丽在果园门口看到了弗雷德，就去迎接他。

‘What fine clothes you wear, you extravagant youth!’ said Mary, as Fred stood still and raised his hat to her with playful formality. ‘You are not learning economy.’
“你穿的衣服多漂亮啊，你这个奢侈的年轻人！”玛丽说，弗雷德站着不动，俏皮地向她举起帽子。 “你不是在学习经济。”

‘Now that is too bad, Mary,’ said Fred. ‘Just look at the edges of these coat-cuffs! It is only by dint of good brushing that I look respectable. I am saving up three suits—one for a wedding-suit.’
“这太糟糕了，玛丽，”弗雷德说。 “看看这些外套袖口的边缘！只有通过良好的刷牙，我才看起来受人尊敬。我正在攒三套西装——一套用来买结婚礼服。”

‘How very droll you will look!—like a gentleman in an old fashion-book.’
“你看起来多么滑稽啊！——就像一本旧时尚书中的绅士。”

‘Oh no, they will keep two years.’
“哦不，他们会保留两年。”

‘Two years! be reasonable, Fred,’ said Mary, turning to walk. ‘Don’t encourage flattering expectations.’
‘两年了！讲道理吧，弗雷德。”玛丽说着，转身要走。 “不要鼓励奉承的期望。”

‘Why not? One lives on them better than on unflattering ones. If we can’t be married in two years, the truth will be quite bad enough when it comes.’
'为什么不？靠它们生活比靠不讨人喜欢的生活更好。如果我们不能在两年内结婚，那么当事实到来时，事实就已经够糟糕的了。”

‘I have heard a story of a young gentleman who once encouraged flattering expectations, and they did him harm.’
“我听说过一位年轻绅士的故事，他曾经鼓励奉承的期望，但这些期望对他造成了伤害。”

‘Mary, if you’ve got something discouraging to tell me, I shall bolt; I shall go into the house to Mr. Garth. I am out of spirits. My father is so cut up—home is not like itself. I can’t bear any more bad news.’
“玛丽，如果你有什么令人沮丧的事情要告诉我，我就会逃跑；我要进屋去见加斯先生。我没精神了。我父亲心碎了——家变得不一样了。我无法忍受更多的坏消息。

‘Should you call it bad news to be told that you were to live at Stone Court, and manage the farm, and be remarkably prudent, and save money every year till all the stock and furniture were your own, and you were a distinguished agricultural character, as Mr. Borthrop Trumbull says—rather stout, I fear, and with the Greek and Latin sadly weather-worn?’
“如果有人告诉你，你要住在斯通庭院，管理农场，而且要非常谨慎，每年都要省钱，直到所有的牲畜和家具都是你自己的，而且你是一个杰出的农业家，你应该称之为坏消息吗？”性格，正如博思罗普·特朗布尔先生所说的那样——我担心，相当粗壮，而且希腊语和拉丁语都饱经风霜了？

‘You don’t mean anything except nonsense, Mary?’ said Fred, coloring slightly nevertheless.
“玛丽，你除了胡说八道之外别无他意吗？”弗雷德说道，脸色还是微微红了。

‘That is what my father has just told me of as what may happen, and he never talks nonsense,’ said Mary, looking up at Fred now, while he grasped her hand as they walked, till it rather hurt her; but she would not complain.
“这就是我父亲刚刚告诉我的可能发生的事情，他从不胡言乱语，”玛丽抬头看着弗雷德说道，他们走着走着，他抓住了她的手，直到她感到很受伤；但她不会抱怨。

‘Oh, I could be a tremendously good fellow then, Mary, and we could be married directly.’
“哦，那么我可以成为一个非常好的人，玛丽，我们可以直接结婚。”

‘Not so fast, sir; how do you know that I would not rather defer our marriage for some years? That would leave you time to misbehave, and then if I liked some one else better, I should have an excuse for jilting you.’
“别那么快，先生；你怎么知道我不愿意把我们的婚姻推迟几年？这样你就有时间胡作非为，然后如果我更喜欢别人，我就应该有借口抛弃你。

‘Pray don’t joke, Mary,’ said Fred, with strong feeling. ‘Tell me seriously that all this is true, and that you are happy because of it— because you love me best.’
“请不要开玩笑，玛丽，”弗雷德带着强烈的感情说道。 “认真地告诉我，这一切都是真的，你因此而快乐——因为你最爱我。”

‘It is all true, Fred, and I am happy because of it—because I love you best,’ said Mary, in a tone of obedient recitation.
“这都是真的，弗雷德，我因此而高兴——因为我最爱你，”玛丽用顺从的背诵语气说道。

They lingered on the door-step under the steep-roofed porch, and Fred almost in a whisper said—
他们在陡峭的屋顶门廊下的门口台阶上徘徊，弗雷德几乎低声说道——

‘When we were first engaged, with the umbrella-ring, Mary, you used to—‘
“当我们第一次订婚时，带着伞环，玛丽，你曾经——”

The spirit of joy began to laugh more decidedly in Mary’s eyes, but the fatal Ben came running to the door with Brownie yapping behind him, and, bouncing against them, said—
玛丽眼中的喜悦之情开始更加明显地笑起来，但是致命的本跑到门口，布朗尼在他身后大喊大叫，并在他们身上弹跳，说——

‘Fred and Mary! are you ever coming in?—or may I eat your cake?’
“弗雷德和玛丽！你要进来吗？——或者我可以吃你的蛋糕吗？

FINALE.
结局。

Every limit is a beginning as well as an ending. Who can quit young lives after being long in company with them, and not desire to know what befell them in their after-years? For the fragment of a life, however typical, is not the sample of an even web: promises may not be kept, and an ardent outset may be followed by declension; latent powers may find their long-waited opportunity; a past error may urge a grand retrieval.
每一个极限都是一个开始，也是一个结束。谁能在与年轻的生命相伴多年之后，不渴望知道他们晚年会发生什么？因为生活的片段，无论多么典型，都不是一个均匀网络的样本：诺言可能不会被遵守，热情的开始可能会随之而衰落；潜在的力量可能会找到他们等待已久的机会；过去的错误可能会促使人们进行一次大的检索。

Marriage, which has been the bourne of so many narratives, is still a great beginning, as it was to Adam and Eve, who kept their honeymoon in Eden, but had their first little one among the thorns and thistles of the wilderness. It is still the beginning of the home epic—the gradual conquest or irremediable loss of that complete union which makes the advancing years a climax, and age the harvest of sweet memories in common.
婚姻一直是许多故事的源泉，但它仍然是一个伟大的开始，就像亚当和夏娃一样，他们在伊甸园度蜜月，但在旷野的荆棘和蓟中生下了他们的第一个孩子。这仍然是家庭史诗的开始——逐渐征服或不可挽回地失去那种完全的结合，这使得岁月的流逝成为高潮，并且随着年龄的增长，共同收获甜蜜的回忆。

Some set out, like Crusaders of old, with a glorious equipment of hope and enthusiasm and get broken by the way, wanting patience with each other and the world.
有些人像古代的十字军一样，带着希望和热情的光荣装备出发，却中途被折断，希望对彼此和世界保持耐心。

All who have oared for Fred Vincy and Mary Garth will like to know that these two made no such failure, but achieved a solid mutual happiness. Fred surprised his neighbors in various ways. He became rather distinguished in his side of the county as a theoretic and practical farmer, and produced a work on the ‘Cultivation of Green Crops and the Economy of Cattle-Feeding’ which won him high congratulations at agricultural meetings. In Middlemarch admiration was more reserved: most persons there were inclined to believe that the merit of Fred’s authorship was due to his wife, since they had never expected Fred Vincy to write on turnips and mangel-wurzel.
所有为弗雷德·文西和玛丽·加斯划桨的人都会想知道这两个人并没有犯这样的失败，而是实现了坚实的共同幸福。弗雷德以各种方式让他的邻居感到惊讶。他作为一名理论和实践农民，在县里颇有名气，写出的《绿色农作物的栽培与养牛经济》的著作，在农业会议上受到高度赞扬。在米德尔马契，人们的钦佩更为保守：那里的大多数人倾向于相信弗雷德的作者身份的优点归功于他的妻子，因为他们从来没有想到弗雷德·文西会在萝卜和曼格尔·乌泽尔上写作。

But when Mary wrote a little book for her boys, called ‘Stories of Great Men, taken from Plutarch,’ and had it printed and published by Gripp & Co., Middlemarch, every one in the town was willing to give the credit of this work to Fred, observing that he had been to the University, ‘where the ancients were studied,’ and might have been a clergyman if he had chosen.
但是，当玛丽为她的孩子们写了一本小书，名为《伟人的故事，摘自普鲁塔克》，并由米德尔马契的格里普公司印刷出版时，镇上的每个人都愿意相信这本书弗莱德的工作，观察到他曾上过大学，“在那里研究古人”，如果他选择的话，可能会成为一名牧师。

In this way it was made clear that Middlemarch had never been deceived, and that there was no need to praise anybody for writing a book, since it was always done by somebody else.
通过这种方式，可以清楚地表明米德尔马奇从未被欺骗，也没有必要赞扬任何人写了一本书，因为它总是由别人完成的。

Moreover, Fred remained unswervingly steady. Some years after his marriage he told Mary that his happiness was half owing to Farebrother, who gave him a strong pull-up at the right moment. I cannot say that he was never again misled by his hopefulness: the yield of crops or the profits of a cattle sale usually fell below his estimate; and he was always prone to believe that he could make money by the purchase of a horse which turned out badly— though this, Mary observed, was of course the fault of the horse, not of Fred’s judgment. He kept his love of horsemanship, but he rarely allowed himself a day’s hunting; and when he did so, it was remarkable that he submitted to be laughed at for cowardliness at the fences, seeming to see Mary and the boys sitting on the five-barred gate, or showing their curly heads between hedge and ditch.
而且，弗雷德始终保持着坚定不移的稳定。结婚几年后，他告诉玛丽，他的幸福有一半归功于费雷布拉泽，他在适当的时候给了他一个有力的引体向上。我不能说他再也没有被自己的希望所误导：农作物的产量或牲畜销售的利润通常低于他的估计；他总是倾向于相信他可以通过购买一匹马来赚钱，但结果却很糟糕——尽管玛丽观察到，这当然是马的错，而不是弗雷德的判断。他保留了对马术的热爱，但很少允许自己一天去打猎。当他这样做的时候，值得注意的是，他在栅栏前因为胆怯而受到嘲笑，似乎看到玛丽和男孩们坐在五栅栏门上，或者在树篱和沟渠之间露出他们的卷发头。

There were three boys: Mary was not discontented that she brought forth men-children only; and when Fred wished to have a girl like her, she said, laughingly, ‘that would be too great a trial to your mother.’ Mrs. Vincy in her declining years, and in the diminished lustre of her housekeeping, was much comforted by her perception that two at least of Fred’s boys were real Vincys, and did not ‘feature the Garths.’ But Mary secretly rejoiced that the youngest of the three was very much what her father must have been when he wore a round jacket, and showed a marvellous nicety of aim in playing at marbles, or in throwing stones to bring down the mellow pears.
共有三个男孩：玛丽并没有因为只生下男孩而感到不满；当弗雷德希望有一个像她这样的女孩时，她笑着说：“这对你的母亲来说是一个太大的考验。”文西夫人在她的晚年和家务的光彩逐渐减弱的时候，得到了很大的安慰。她认为弗雷德的儿子中至少有两个是真正的文西家族，并且没有“以加思家族为特色”。但玛丽暗自庆幸，三个孩子中最小的一个很像她父亲穿着圆夹克时的样子，并表现出玩弹珠或扔石头打落香醇的梨子时，瞄准的精准度非常高。

Ben and Letty Garth, who were uncle and aunt before they were well in their teens, disputed much as to whether nephews or nieces were more desirable; Ben contending that it was clear girls were good for less than boys, else they would not be always in petticoats, which showed how little they were meant for; whereupon Letty, who argued much from books, got angry in replying that God made coats of skins for both Adam and Eve alike—also it occurred to her that in the East the men too wore petticoats. But this latter argument, obscuring the majesty of the former, was one too many, for Ben answered contemptuously, ‘The more spooneys they!’ and immediately appealed to his mother whether boys were not better than girls. Mrs. Garth pronounced that both were alike naughty, but that boys were undoubtedly stronger, could run faster, and throw with more precision to a greater distance. With this oracular sentence Ben was well satisfied, not minding the naughtiness; but Letty took it ill, her feeling of superiority being stronger than her muscles.
本·加斯和莱蒂·加斯在十几岁之前就已经是叔叔和婶婶了，他们对于侄子还是侄女哪个更受欢迎存在很多争议。本认为，很明显，女孩比男孩更适合，否则她们不会总是穿着衬裙，这表明她们的意义是多么渺小；莱蒂经常从书本上争论，她生气地回答说，上帝为亚当和夏娃都制作了皮衣——她还想到，在东方，男人也穿衬裙。但后一种说法太过分了，掩盖了前一种说法的威严，因为本轻蔑地回答道：“他们越是傻瓜！”并立即向母亲求助，男孩是否比女孩更好。加斯夫人宣称，两人都很顽皮，但男孩无疑更强壮，跑得更快，投掷更精准，投掷距离更远。听完这句神谕，本很满意，并不在乎这有多顽皮。但莱蒂对此感到不快，她的优越感比她的肌肉更强烈。

Fred never became rich—his hopefulness had not led him to expect that; but he gradually saved enough to become owner of the stock and furniture at Stone Court, and the work which Mr. Garth put into his hands carried him in plenty through those ‘bad times’ which are always present with farmers. Mary, in her matronly days, became as solid in figure as her mother; but, unlike her, gave the boys little formal teaching, so that Mrs. Garth was alarmed lest they should never be well grounded in grammar and geography. Nevertheless, they were found quite forward enough when they went to school; perhaps, because they had liked nothing so well as being with their mother. When Fred was riding home on winter evenings he had a pleasant vision beforehand of the bright hearth in the wainscoted parlor, and was sorry for other men who could not have Mary for their wife; especially for Mr. Farebrother. ‘He was ten times worthier of you than I was,’ Fred could now say to her, magnanimously. ‘To be sure he was,’ Mary answered; ‘and for that reason he could do better without me. But you—I shudder to think what you would have been— a curate in debt for horse-hire and cambric pocket-handkerchiefs!’
弗雷德从未变得富有——他的希望并没有让他想到这一点；但他逐渐攒够了钱，成为了斯通庭院的股票和家具的所有者，加斯先生交给他的工作让他度过了农民们总是面临的“困难时期”。玛丽在当主妇的日子里，身材变得像她母亲一样结实。但是，与她不同的是，她很少给男孩们提供正式的教学，因此加思夫人很担心，生怕他们永远无法在语法和地理方面打下良好的基础。然而，当他们上学时，人们发现他们还是很前卫的。也许是因为他们最喜欢和母亲在一起了。冬天的晚上，当弗雷德骑车回家时，他事先愉快地看到了壁板客厅里明亮的壁炉，并为其他不能娶玛丽为妻子的男人感到遗憾。尤其是费雷布拉泽先生。 “他比我更值得你十倍，”弗雷德现在可以慷慨地对她说。 “当然是的，”玛丽回答道。 “因此，没有我他可以做得更好。”但你——一想到你会成为什么样的人，我就不寒而栗——一个因租马和麻布口袋手帕而欠债的牧师！

On inquiry it might possibly be found that Fred and Mary still inhabit Stone Court—that the creeping plants still cast the foam of their blossoms over the fine stone-wall into the field where the walnut-trees stand in stately row—and that on sunny days the two lovers who were first engaged with the umbrella-ring may be seen in white-haired placidity at the open window from which Mary Garth, in the days of old Peter Featherstone, had often been ordered to look out for Mr. Lydgate.
经过询问，可能会发现弗雷德和玛丽仍然居住在石庭——爬行植物仍然将花朵的泡沫从精美的石墙上投射到核桃树庄严地排列的田野上——而且在阳光明媚的日子里，那些天，最初与伞环订婚的两个恋人，白发平静地站在开着的窗户前，在老彼得·费瑟斯通的时代，玛丽·加思经常被命令从窗户里寻找利德盖特先生。

Lydgate’s hair never became white. He died when he was only fifty, leaving his wife and children provided for by a heavy insurance on his life. He had gained an excellent practice, alternating, according to the season, between London and a Continental bathing-place; having written a treatise on Gout, a disease which has a good deal of wealth on its side. His skill was relied on by many paying patients, but he always regarded himself as a failure: he had not done what he once meant to do. His acquaintances thought him enviable to have so charming a wife, and nothing happened to shake their opinion. Rosamond never committed a second compromising indiscretion. She simply continued to be mild in her temper, inflexible in her judgment, disposed to admonish her husband, and able to frustrate him by stratagem. As the years went on he opposed her less and less, whence Rosamond concluded that he had learned the value of her opinion; on the other hand, she had a more thorough conviction of his talents now that he gained a good income, and instead of the threatened cage in Bride Street provided one all flowers and gilding, fit for the bird of paradise that she resembled. In brief, Lydgate was what is called a successful man. But he died prematurely of diphtheria, and Rosamond afterwards married an elderly and wealthy physician, who took kindly to her four children. She made a very pretty show with her daughters, driving out in her carriage, and often spoke of her happiness as ‘a reward’—she did not say for what, but probably she meant that it was a reward for her patience with Tertius, whose temper never became faultless, and to the last occasionally let slip a bitter speech which was more memorable than the signs he made of his repentance. He once called her his basil plant; and when she asked for an explanation, said that basil was a plant which had flourished wonderfully on a murdered man’s brains. Rosamond had a placid but strong answer to such speeches. Why then had he chosen her? It was a pity he had not had Mrs. Ladislaw, whom he was always praising and placing above her. And thus the conversation ended with the advantage on Rosamond’s side. But it would be unjust not to tell, that she never uttered a word in depreciation of Dorothea, keeping in religious remembrance the generosity which had come to her aid in the sharpest crisis of her life.
利德盖特的头发从未变白。他年仅五十岁时就去世了，留下了一份巨额的人寿保险供养他的妻子和孩子。他的训练非常出色，根据季节交替在伦敦和欧陆式浴场之间进行训练。写了一篇关于痛风的论文，痛风是一种可以带来大量财富的疾病。他的技术得到了许多付费病人的信赖，但他始终认为自己是一个失败者：他没有做他曾经想做的事。他的熟人都认为他很羡慕他有一个如此迷人的妻子，但没有发生任何事情来动摇他们的看法。罗莎蒙德再也没有犯过第二次妥协的轻率行为。她只是性情温和，判断力坚定，善于劝诫丈夫，善于用计挫败他。随着时间的流逝，他越来越少地反对她，罗莎蒙德由此得出结论，他已经了解了她的意见的价值；另一方面，既然他获得了丰厚的收入，她对他的才华有了更彻底的信心，而且不再是新娘街那个濒临灭绝的笼子，而是提供了一个布满鲜花和镀金的笼子，适合她所喜欢的天堂鸟。简而言之，利德盖特就是所谓的成功人士。但他因白喉过早去世，罗莎蒙德后来嫁给了一位年长而富有的医生，他对她的四个孩子很友善。她和她的女儿们一起表演了一场非常漂亮的表演，驾驶着她的马车，并经常说她的幸福是“一种奖励”——她没有说是什么，但可能她的意思是这是对她对特蒂乌斯耐心的奖励，他的脾气从来都没有变得完美，直到最后偶尔也会说出一些尖刻的话，这比他悔改的迹象更令人难忘。 他曾经称她为他的罗勒植物；当她要求解释时，她说罗勒是一种在被谋杀的人的大脑中生长得非常茂盛的植物。罗莎蒙德对此类演讲做出了平静而有力的回答。那他为什么选择了她呢？遗憾的是，他没有拉迪斯劳夫人，他总是称赞她，把她置于她之上。就这样，谈话以罗莎蒙德一方占优势而结束。但如果不说出来，那就太不公平了，因为她从未说过任何贬低多萝西娅的话，而是将在她一生中最严重的危机中给予她帮助的慷慨行为作为宗教纪念。

Dorothea herself had no dreams of being praised above other women, feeling that there was always something better which she might have done, if she had only been better and known better. Still, she never repented that she had given up position and fortune to marry Will Ladislaw, and he would have held it the greatest shame as well as sorrow to him if she had repented. They were bound to each other by a love stronger than any impulses which could have marred it. No life would have been possible to Dorothea which was not filled with emotion, and she had now a life filled also with a beneficent activity which she had not the doubtful pains of discovering and marking out for herself. Will became an ardent public man, working well in those times when reforms were begun with a young hopefulness of immediate good which has been much checked in our days, and getting at last returned to Parliament by a constituency who paid his expenses. Dorothea could have liked nothing better, since wrongs existed, than that her husband should be in the thick of a struggle against them, and that she should give him wifely help. Many who knew her, thought it a pity that so substantive and rare a creature should have been absorbed into the life of another, and be only known in a certain circle as a wife and mother. But no one stated exactly what else that was in her power she ought rather to have done—not even Sir James Chettam, who went no further than the negative prescription that she ought not to have married Will Ladislaw.
多萝西娅本人并没有梦想得到比其他女人更高的赞扬，她觉得只要她做得更好、了解得更多，她就可以做得更好。尽管如此，她从未后悔自己为了嫁给威尔·拉迪斯瓦夫而放弃了地位和财富，如果她悔改，他将会认为这是他最大的耻辱和悲伤。他们之间的爱情比任何可能损害爱情的冲动都要强烈。对多萝西娅来说，没有充满情感的生活是不可能的，而她现在的生活也充满了慈善活动，她没有为自己发现和标记的可疑痛苦。威尔成为一名热心的公职人员，在改革开始时，年轻人怀着对眼前利益的希望而工作得很好，这种希望在我们这个时代已经受到很大的抑制，并最终由支付他费用的选区返回议会。既然存在着错误，多萝西娅最喜欢的莫过于她的丈夫与他们进行激烈的斗争，而她应该向他提供妻子般的帮助。许多认识她的人都觉得可惜，如此重要和罕见的生物竟然融入了另一个人的生活，只在某个圈子里被称为妻子和母亲。但没有人确切地说明她在权力范围内还应该做什么——甚至连詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士也没有，他只给出了否定的处方，即她不应该嫁给威尔·拉迪斯劳。

But this opinion of his did not cause a lasting alienation; and the way in which the family was made whole again was characteristic of all concerned. Mr. Brooke could not resist the pleasure of corresponding with Will and Dorothea; and one morning when his pen had been remarkably fluent on the prospects of Municipal Reform, it ran off into an invitation to the Grange, which, once written, could not be done away with at less cost than the sacrifice (hardly to be conceived) of the whole valuable letter. During the months of this correspondence Mr. Brooke had continually, in his talk with Sir James Chettam, been presupposing or hinting that the intention of cutting off the entail was still maintained; and the day on which his pen gave the daring invitation, he went to Freshitt expressly to intimate that he had a stronger sense than ever of the reasons for taking that energetic step as a precaution against any mixture of low blood in the heir of the Brookes.
但他的这种观点并没有造成持久的疏远；家庭重新团聚的方式是所有相关人员的共同特点。布鲁克先生无法抗拒与威尔和多萝西娅通信的乐趣。一天早上，当他的笔已经非常流畅地描绘了市政改革的前景时，它变成了一份前往田庄的邀请函，一旦写下，就无法以比牺牲更少的成本取消（几乎无法想象）整封有价值的信。在这封信的几个月里，布鲁克先生在与詹姆斯·切塔姆爵士的谈话中不断地预设或暗示，切断继承权的意图仍然存在；但他并没有这样做。在他的笔发出大胆邀请的那天，他特意去找弗雷西特，表示他比以往任何时候都更清楚地意识到采取这一有力步骤的原因，以防止布鲁克斯继承人的任何低血统混合。 。

But that morning something exciting had happened at the Hall. A letter had come to Celia which made her cry silently as she read it; and when Sir James, unused to see her in tears, asked anxiously what was the matter, she burst out in a wail such as he had never heard from her before.
但那天早上，大厅里发生了一些令人兴奋的事情。西莉亚收到了一封信，读到这封信时，她默默地哭了。当詹姆斯爵士不习惯看到她流泪时，他焦急地询问发生了什么事，她突然放声大哭起来，这是他以前从未听过的。

‘Dorothea has a little boy. And you will not let me go and see her. And I am sure she wants to see me. And she will not know what to do with the baby—she will do wrong things with it. And they thought she would die. It is very dreadful! Suppose it had been me and little Arthur, and Dodo had been hindered from coming to see me! I wish you would be less unkind, James!’
“多萝西娅有一个小男孩。你也不会让我去见她。我确信她想见我。她将不知道如何对待孩子——她会用它做错误的事情。他们认为她会死。这是非常可怕的！假设是我和小亚瑟，而多多被阻止来看我！我希望你不要那么无情，詹姆斯！”

‘Good heavens, Celia!’ said Sir James, much wrought upon, ‘what do you wish? I will do anything you like. I will take you to town to-morrow if you wish it.’ And Celia did wish it.
“天哪，西莉亚！”詹姆斯爵士心潮澎湃地说，“你想要什么？我会做任何你喜欢的事。如果你愿意的话，我明天就带你去城里。”西莉亚确实希望如此。

It was after this that Mr. Brooke came, and meeting the Baronet in the grounds, began to chat with him in ignorance of the news, which Sir James for some reason did not care to tell him immediately. But when the entail was touched on in the usual way, he said, ‘My dear sir, it is not for me to dictate to you, but for my part I would let that alone. I would let things remain as they are.’
就在这之后，布鲁克先生来了，在庭院里遇见了男爵，开始在不知道这个消息的情况下与他聊天，詹姆斯爵士出于某种原因并不愿意立即告诉他。但是，当按照通常的方式谈到继承权时，他说：“亲爱的先生，这不是我向您发号施令的事情，但就我而言，我不会管它。”我会让事情保持原样。

Mr. Brooke felt so much surprised that he did not at once find out how much he was relieved by the sense that he was not expected to do anything in particular.
布鲁克先生感到非常惊讶，以至于他并没有立即发现自己没有因为不需要做任何特别的事情而感到松了一口气。

Such being the bent of Celia’s heart, it was inevitable that Sir James should consent to a reconciliation with Dorothea and her husband. Where women love each other, men learn to smother their mutual dislike. Sir James never liked Ladislaw, and Will always preferred to have Sir James’s company mixed with another kind: they were on a footing of reciprocal tolerance which was made quite easy only when Dorothea and Celia were present.
由于西莉亚的心意，詹姆斯爵士同意与多萝西娅和她的丈夫和解是不可避免的。当女人彼此相爱时，男人就学会抑制彼此的厌恶。詹姆斯爵士从来不喜欢拉迪斯瓦夫，而威尔总是更喜欢让詹姆斯爵士的陪伴与另一种人混合在一起：他们处于相互宽容的基础上，只有当多萝西娅和西莉亚在场时，这才变得很容易。

It became an understood thing that Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaw should pay at least two visits during the year to the Grange, and there came gradually a small row of cousins at Freshitt who enjoyed playing with the two cousins Visiting Tipton as much as if the blood of these cousins had been less dubiously mixed.
大家都知道，拉迪斯劳先生和夫人一年中至少要来农庄两次，渐渐地，弗雷希特庄园里出现了一小排表兄弟，他们喜欢和两个表兄弟一起玩。这些表兄弟的血统没有那么混杂。

Mr. Brooke lived to a good old age, and his estate was inherited by Dorothea’s son, who might have represented Middlemarch, but declined, thinking that his opinions had less chance of being stifled if he remained out of doors.
布鲁克先生活到了很高的年纪，他的遗产由多萝西娅的儿子继承，多萝西娅的儿子本来可以代表米德尔马契，但他拒绝了，因为他认为如果他留在外面，他的意见就不太可能被压制。

Sir James never ceased to regard Dorothea’s second marriage as a mistake; and indeed this remained the tradition concerning it in Middlemarch, where she was spoken of to a younger generation as a fine girl who married a sickly clergyman, old enough to be her father, and in little more than a year after his death gave up her estate to marry his cousin—young enough to have been his son, with no property, and not well-born. Those who had not seen anything of Dorothea usually observed that she could not have been ‘a nice woman,’ else she would not have married either the one or the other.
詹姆斯爵士始终认为多萝西娅的第二次婚姻是一个错误。事实上，这仍然是米德尔马契的传统，在那里，年轻一代认为她是一位优秀的女孩，嫁给了一位体弱多病的牧师，年龄足以成为她的父亲，但在他死后一年多一点的时间里，她放弃了她嫁给他的表弟——年轻得可以当他的儿子了，没有财产，出身也不好。那些没有见过多萝西娅任何东西的人通常会认为她不可能是“一个好女人”，否则她就不会嫁给其中之一。

Certainly those determining acts of her life were not ideally beautiful. They were the mixed result of young and noble impulse struggling amidst the conditions of an imperfect social state, in which great feelings will often take the aspect of error, and great faith the aspect of illusion. For there is no creature whose inward being is so strong that it is not greatly determined by what lies outside it. A new Theresa will hardly have the opportunity of reforming a conventual life, any more than a new Antigone will spend her heroic piety in daring all for the sake of a brother’s burial: the medium in which their ardent deeds took shape is forever gone. But we insignificant people with our daily words and acts are preparing the lives of many Dorotheas, some of which may present a far sadder sacrifice than that of the Dorothea whose story we know.
当然，她一生中那些决定性的行为并不理想。它们是年轻而高贵的冲动在不完美的社会状态中挣扎的混合结果，在这种状态下，伟大的感情常常表现为错误，而伟大的信仰往往表现为幻想。因为没有一种生物的内在存在如此强大，以致于它不很大程度上受到外在事物的影响。新的特蕾莎几乎没有机会改革修道院的生活，就像新的安提戈涅会为了兄弟的葬礼而勇敢地付出一切英雄般的虔诚一样：他们热心事迹得以形成的媒介已经永远消失了。但我们这些微不足道的人，每天的言行正在为许多多萝西娅的生活做准备，其中一些人的牺牲可能比我们所知道的多萝西娅的故事要悲惨得多。

Her finely touched spirit had still its fine issues, though they were not widely visible. Her full nature, like that river of which Cyrus broke the strength, spent itself in channels which had no great name on the earth. But the effect of her being on those around her was incalculably diffusive: for the growing good of the world is partly dependent on unhistoric acts; and that things are not so ill with you and me as they might have been, is half owing to the number who lived faithfully a hidden life, and rest in unvisited tombs.
她那细腻的心灵仍然存在着一些美好的问题，尽管这些问题并不广为人知。她的全部本性，就像赛勒斯破坏了它的力量的那条河流一样，在地球上没有伟大名字的渠道中耗尽了自己。但她的存在对周围人的影响是难以估量的扩散：因为世界的不断增长的福祉部分取决于非历史性的行为；你和我的情况并没有像原本那样糟糕，一半要归功于那些忠实地过着隐秘生活、安息在无人问津的坟墓里的人。