
Anne of Green Gables
绿山墙的安妮

By Lucy Maud Montgomery
露西·莫德·蒙哥马利

Chapter I
第一章


Mrs. Rachel Lynde is Surprised
雷切尔·林德夫人很惊讶

Mrs. Rachel Lynde lived just where the Avonlea main road dipped down into a little hollow, fringed with alders and ladies’ eardrops and traversed by a brook that had its source away back in the woods of the old Cuthbert place; it was reputed to be an intricate, headlong brook in its earlier course through those woods, with dark secrets of pool and cascade; but by the time it reached Lynde’s Hollow it was a quiet, well-conducted little stream, for not even a brook could run past Mrs. Rachel Lynde’s door without due regard for decency and decorum; it probably was conscious that Mrs. Rachel was sitting at her window, keeping a sharp eye on everything that passed, from brooks and children up, and that if she noticed anything odd or out of place she would never rest until she had ferreted out the whys and wherefores thereof.
雷切尔·林德太太就住在埃文利主干道伸入一个小洼地的地方，周围种满了桤木和女士耳坠，一条小溪流过，小溪的源头就在老卡斯伯特家的树林里。据说，它是一条复杂的、急速流过树林的小溪，其中有水池和瀑布的黑暗秘密。但当它到达林德山谷时，它是一条安静的、疏导良好的小溪，因为即使是一条小溪也不能流过雷切尔·林德太太的门，而不考虑体面和礼节。雷切尔夫人可能意识到，她正坐在窗前，敏锐地注视着经过的一切，从溪流到孩子们，如果她发现任何奇怪或不合适的地方，她永远不会休息，直到她把所有的东西都找出来。其原因及理由。

There are plenty of people in Avonlea and out of it, who can attend closely to their neighbor’s business by dint of neglecting their own; but Mrs. Rachel Lynde was one of those capable creatures who can manage their own concerns and those of other folks into the bargain. She was a notable housewife; her work was always done and well done; she ‘ran’ the Sewing Circle, helped run the Sunday-school, and was the strongest prop of the Church Aid Society and Foreign Missions Auxiliary. Yet with all this Mrs. Rachel found abundant time to sit for hours at her kitchen window, knitting ‘cotton warp’ quilts—she had knitted sixteen of them, as Avonlea housekeepers were wont to tell in awed voices—and keeping a sharp eye on the main road that crossed the hollow and wound up the steep red hill beyond. Since Avonlea occupied a little triangular peninsula jutting out into the Gulf of St. Lawrence with water on two sides of it, anybody who went out of it or into it had to pass over that hill road and so run the unseen gauntlet of Mrs. Rachel’s all-seeing eye.
埃文利内外都有很多人，他们可以通过忽视自己的事情来密切关注邻居的事情。但雷切尔·林德夫人是一位能干的人，她能够兼顾自己和其他人的利益。她是一位著名的家庭主妇。她的工作总是完成并且做得很好；她“经营”缝纫圈，帮助经营主日学校，并且是教会援助协会和外国传教辅助机构最有力的支柱。然而，尽管如此，雷切尔夫人还是找到了充足的时间，在厨房窗前坐了几个小时，编织“棉经”被子——她已经编织了十六条，正如埃文利的管家们习惯于用敬畏的声音讲述的那样——并密切关注着周围的情况。穿过山谷的主路，蜿蜒通往远处陡峭的红色山丘。由于埃文利占据了一个伸入圣劳伦斯湾的一个小三角形半岛，两侧都是水，所以任何人出入该半岛都必须经过那条山路，因此要承受雷切尔夫人那看不见的挑战。全视之眼。

She was sitting there one afternoon in early June. The sun was coming in at the window warm and bright; the orchard on the slope below the house was in a bridal flush of pinkywhite bloom, hummed over by a myriad of bees. Thomas Lynde— a meek little man whom Avonlea people called ‘Rachel Lynde’s husband’—was sowing his late turnip seed on the hill field beyond the barn; and Matthew Cuthbert ought to have been sowing his on the big red brook field away over by Green Gables. Mrs. Rachel knew that he ought because she had heard him tell Peter Morrison the evening before in William J. Blair’s store over at Carmody that he meant to sow his turnip seed the next afternoon. Peter had asked him, of course, for Matthew Cuthbert had never been known to volunteer information about anything in his whole life.
六月初的一个下午，她坐在那里。阳光从窗户照进来，温暖而明亮；房子下面山坡上的果园开满了粉白色的花朵，无数的蜜蜂嗡嗡作响。托马斯·林德——一个温顺的小个子男人，埃文利人称他为“雷切尔·林德的丈夫”——正在谷仓外的山地上播种晚熟的萝卜种子。马修·库斯伯特应该在绿山墙那边的大红溪田里播种。雷切尔夫人知道他应该这样做，因为前一天晚上她在卡莫迪威廉·J·布莱尔的商店里听到他告诉彼得·莫里森，他打算第二天下午播种萝卜种子。当然，彼得问过他，因为马修·库斯伯特一生中从来没有主动提供过任何信息。

And yet here was Matthew Cuthbert, at half-past three on the afternoon of a busy day, placidly driving over the hollow and up the hill; moreover, he wore a white collar and his best suit of clothes, which was plain proof that he was going out of Avonlea; and he had the buggy and the sorrel mare, which betokened that he was going a considerable distance. Now, where was Matthew Cuthbert going and why was he going there?
然而，马修·库斯伯特却在忙碌的一天下午三点半，平静地开车穿过山谷，上山。而且，他穿着白领子，穿着他最好的衣服，这清楚地证明他是要离开埃文利的。他还带着马车和栗色母马，这表明他要走很远的路。现在，马修·库斯伯特要去哪里以及他为什么要去那里？

Had it been any other man in Avonlea, Mrs. Rachel, deftly putting this and that together, might have given a pretty good guess as to both questions. But Matthew so rarely went from home that it must be something pressing and unusual which was taking him; he was the shyest man alive and hated to have to go among strangers or to any place where he might have to talk. Matthew, dressed up with a white collar and driving in a buggy, was something that didn’t happen often. Mrs. Rachel, ponder as she might, could make nothing of it and her afternoon’s enjoyment was spoiled.
如果是埃文利的其他人，雷切尔夫人巧妙地将这个和那个放在一起，可能会对这两个问题做出很好的猜测。但马修很少离开家，一定是有什么紧迫和不寻常的事情需要他去做。他是世界上最害羞的人，讨厌去陌生人中间或任何可能需要说话的地方。马修一身白领打扮，开着一辆越野车，这种情况并不常见。雷切尔夫人尽管想了想，却什么也没明白，她下午的快乐就这样被破坏了。

‘I’ll just step over to Green Gables after tea and find out from Marilla where he’s gone and why,’ the worthy woman finally concluded. ‘He doesn’t generally go to town this time of year and he NEVER visits; if he’d run out of turnip seed he wouldn’t dress up and take the buggy to go for more; he wasn’t driving fast enough to be going for a doctor. Yet something must have happened since last night to start him off. I’m clean puzzled, that’s what, and I won’t know a minute’s peace of mind or conscience until I know what has taken Matthew Cuthbert out of Avonlea today.’
“喝完茶后我就去绿山墙，从马里拉那里打听他去了哪里以及为什么，”这位可敬的女人最后总结道。 “每年这个时候他一般不会进城，也从不拜访；如果他的萝卜籽用完了，他就不会盛装打扮，开着马车去买更多的萝卜籽。他的车速不够快，无法去看医生。但从昨晚起一定发生了什么事情让他开始了。我很困惑，就是这样，在我知道马修·库斯伯特今天离开埃文利之前，我不会有片刻的内心平静或良心平静。

Accordingly after tea Mrs. Rachel set out; she had not far to go; the big, rambling, orchard-embowered house where the Cuthberts lived was a scant quarter of a mile up the road from Lynde’s Hollow. To be sure, the long lane made it a good deal further. Matthew Cuthbert’s father, as shy and silent as his son after him, had got as far away as he possibly could from his fellow men without actually retreating into the woods when he founded his homestead. Green Gables was built at the furthest edge of his cleared land and there it was to this day, barely visible from the main road along which all the other Avonlea houses were so sociably situated. Mrs. Rachel Lynde did not call living in such a place LIVING at all.
喝完茶后，雷切尔夫人就出发了。她还有不远的路要走；卡斯伯特一家住的那座大房子杂乱无章，果园环绕，距离林德山谷只有不到四分之一英里。可以肯定的是，长长的车道使它更进一步。马修·库斯伯特的父亲和他身后的儿子一样害羞而沉默，在建立自己的家园时，他已经尽可能远离他的同胞，而没有真正退入树林。绿山墙建在他清理过的土地的最边缘，直到今天，从主干道上几乎看不见它，而沿着这条主干道，所有其他埃文利的房子都位于如此社交的位置。雷切尔·林德夫人根本不称住在这样的地方为“生活”。

‘It’s just STAYING, that’s what,’ she said as she stepped along the deep-rutted, grassy lane bordered with wild rose bushes. ‘It’s no wonder Matthew and Marilla are both a little odd, living away back here by themselves. Trees aren’t much company, though dear knows if they were there’d be enough of them. I’d ruther look at people. To be sure, they seem contented enough; but then, I suppose, they’re used to it. A body can get used to anything, even to being hanged, as the Irishman said.’
“这只是留下来，就是这样，”她一边说，一边沿着那条车辙深、绿草如茵的小路走去，小路周围长满了野玫瑰丛。 “难怪马修和玛丽拉都有点奇怪，他们一个人住在这里。树木并不是什么陪伴，但亲爱的知道，如果有的话，树木就足够了。我宁愿看人。确实，他们看起来很满足。但我想，他们已经习惯了。正如爱尔兰人所说，身体可以适应任何事情，甚至是被绞死。

With this Mrs. Rachel stepped out of the lane into the backyard of Green Gables. Very green and neat and precise was that yard, set about on one side with great patriarchal willows and the other with prim Lombardies. Not a stray stick nor stone was to be seen, for Mrs. Rachel would have seen it if there had been. Privately she was of the opinion that Marilla Cuthbert swept that yard over as often as she swept her house. One could have eaten a meal off the ground without overbrimming the proverbial peck of dirt.
说完，雷切尔夫人走出小巷，来到绿山墙的后院。那个院子绿油油的，整洁而精确，一侧种着父权制的大柳树，另一侧种着古板的伦巴第人。没有看到一根杂乱的棍子或石头，因为如果有的话，雷切尔夫人一定会看到的。私下里，她认为玛丽拉·卡斯伯特打扫那个院子的次数和打扫她房子的次数一样多。人们可以在地上吃一顿饭，而不会沾满众所周知的泥土。

Mrs. Rachel rapped smartly at the kitchen door and stepped in when bidden to do so. The kitchen at Green Gables was a cheerful apartment—or would have been cheerful if it had not been so painfully clean as to give it something of the appearance of an unused parlor. Its windows looked east and west; through the west one, looking out on the back yard, came a flood of mellow June sunlight; but the east one, whence you got a glimpse of the bloom white cherry-trees in the left orchard and nodding, slender birches down in the hollow by the brook, was greened over by a tangle of vines. Here sat Marilla Cuthbert, when she sat at all, always slightly distrustful of sunshine, which seemed to her too dancing and irresponsible a thing for a world which was meant to be taken seriously; and here she sat now, knitting, and the table behind her was laid for supper.
雷切尔太太轻快地敲了敲厨房的门，并按照要求走了进去。绿山墙的厨房是一间令人愉悦的公寓——或者说，如果它不是那么干净得令人痛苦，以至于看起来像是一个闲置的客厅，那么厨房本来会很令人愉悦。它的窗户朝东，朝西；六月柔和的阳光透过西边的窗户望向后院。但东边的果园里，你可以瞥见左边果园里盛开的白色樱桃树，还有小溪旁洼地里的细长白桦树，上面爬满了缠结的藤蔓。玛丽拉·库斯伯特就坐在这里，当她坐下时，她总是对阳光有些不信任，在她看来，对于一个本应严肃对待的世界来说，这似乎太跳舞了，也是不负责任的事情；她现在坐在这里，正在编织，她身后的桌子上已经摆好了晚饭。

Mrs. Rachel, before she had fairly closed the door, had taken a mental note of everything that was on that table. There were three plates laid, so that Marilla must be expecting some one home with Matthew to tea; but the dishes were everyday dishes and there was only crab-apple preserves and one kind of cake, so that the expected company could not be any particular company. Yet what of Matthew’s white collar and the sorrel mare? Mrs. Rachel was getting fairly dizzy with this unusual mystery about quiet, unmysterious Green Gables.
雷切尔夫人在关上门之前，已经在心里记下了桌子上的所有东西。三个盘子摆好了，玛丽拉一定是在等有人和马修一起回家喝茶。但菜品都是日常菜肴，只有海棠蜜饯和一种糕点，所以预计来的人不可能是什么特定的公司。那么马修的白领和栗色母马呢？雷切尔夫人对这个关于安静、不神秘的绿山墙的不寻常的谜团感到相当头晕。

‘Good evening, Rachel,’ Marilla said briskly. ‘This is a real fine evening, isn’t it’ Won’t you sit down? How are all your folks?’
“晚上好，雷切尔，”玛丽拉轻快地说。 “这真是一个美好的夜晚，不是吗？”你不坐下吗？你们的家人都好吗？

Something that for lack of any other name might be called friendship existed and always had existed between Marilla Cuthbert and Mrs. Rachel, in spite of—or perhaps because of—their dissimilarity.
玛丽拉·卡斯伯特和雷切尔夫人之间存在着某种无法用其他名字来称呼的友谊，而且一直存在着，尽管——或者也许正是因为——他们的不同之处。

Marilla was a tall, thin woman, with angles and without curves; her dark hair showed some gray streaks and was always twisted up in a hard little knot behind with two wire hairpins stuck aggressively through it. She looked like a woman of narrow experience and rigid conscience, which she was; but there was a saving something about her mouth which, if it had been ever so slightly developed, might have been considered indicative of a sense of humor.
玛丽拉是个又高又瘦的女人，棱角分明，没有曲线。她的黑发露出了一些灰色的条纹，并且总是在后面盘成一个坚硬的小结，并用两根金属发夹猛烈地穿过它。她看起来像是一个经验狭隘、良心顽固的女人，她也确实如此。但她的嘴里有一种保留的东西，如果它稍微发达一点，可能会被认为是幽默感的表现。

‘We’re all pretty well,’ said Mrs. Rachel. ‘I was kind of afraid YOU weren’t, though, when I saw Matthew starting off today. I thought maybe he was going to the doctor’s.’
“我们都很好，”雷切尔夫人说。 “不过，当我今天看到马修出发时，我有点担心你不是。”我想他可能会去看医生。

Marilla’s lips twitched understandingly. She had expected Mrs. Rachel up; she had known that the sight of Matthew jaunting off so unaccountably would be too much for her neighbor’s curiosity.
玛丽拉理解地抽动嘴唇。她原以为雷切尔夫人会起床；但她没想到会这样。她知道，看到马修如此莫名其妙地走开，她的邻居会感到好奇。

‘Oh, no, I’m quite well although I had a bad headache yesterday,’ she said. ‘Matthew went to Bright River. We’re getting a little boy from an orphan asylum in Nova Scotia and he’s coming on the train tonight.’
“哦，不，虽然我昨天头痛得很厉害，但我很好，”她说。 ‘马修去了布赖特河。我们从新斯科舍省的一家孤儿院接收了一个小男孩，他今晚将乘火车前来。”

If Marilla had said that Matthew had gone to Bright River to meet a kangaroo from Australia Mrs. Rachel could not have been more astonished. She was actually stricken dumb for five seconds. It was unsupposable that Marilla was making fun of her, but Mrs. Rachel was almost forced to suppose it.
如果玛丽拉说马修去布赖特河去见一只来自澳大利亚的袋鼠，雷切尔夫人一定会感到更加惊讶。她竟然愣了五秒钟。玛丽拉不可能取笑她，但雷切尔夫人几乎不得不这么认为。

‘Are you in earnest, Marilla?’ she demanded when voice returned to her.
“你是认真的吗，玛丽拉？”当声音恢复时，她问道。

‘Yes, of course,’ said Marilla, as if getting boys from orphan asylums in Nova Scotia were part of the usual spring work on any well-regulated Avonlea farm instead of being an unheard of innovation.
“是的，当然，”马里拉说，仿佛从新斯科舍省的孤儿院接收男孩是任何管理良好的埃文利农场春季工作的一部分，而不是闻所未闻的创新。

Mrs. Rachel felt that she had received a severe mental jolt. She thought in exclamation points. A boy! Marilla and Matthew Cuthbert of all people adopting a boy! From an orphan asylum! Well, the world was certainly turning upside down! She would be surprised at nothing after this! Nothing!
雷切尔夫人感到自己受到了严重的精神震动。她用感叹号想道。一个男孩！玛丽拉·库斯伯特和马修·库斯伯特是所有收养男孩的人中的佼佼者！来自孤儿院！好吧，世界确实天翻地覆了！从此之后，她就不会再感到惊讶了！没有什么！

‘What on earth put such a notion into your head?’ she demanded disapprovingly.
“到底是什么让你产生了这样的想法？”她不以为然地问道。

This had been done without here advice being asked, and must perforce be disapproved.
这是在没有征求建议的情况下就这样做的，因此必须予以拒绝。

‘Well, we’ve been thinking about it for some time—all winter in fact,’ returned Marilla. ‘Mrs. Alexander Spencer was up here one day before Christmas and she said she was going to get a little girl from the asylum over in Hopeton in the spring. Her cousin lives there and Mrs. Spencer has visited here and knows all about it. So Matthew and I have talked it over off and on ever since. We thought we’d get a boy. Matthew is getting up in years, you know—he’s sixty— and he isn’t so spry as he once was. His heart troubles him a good deal. And you know how desperate hard it’s got to be to get hired help. There’s never anybody to be had but those stupid, half-grown little French boys; and as soon as you do get one broke into your ways and taught something he’s up and off to the lobster canneries or the States. At first Matthew suggested getting a Home boy. But I said ‘no’ flat to that. ‘They may be all right—I’m not saying they’re not—but no London street Arabs for me,’ I said. ‘Give me a native born at least. There’ll be a risk, no matter who we get. But I’ll feel easier in my mind and sleep sounder at nights if we get a born Canadian.’ So in the end we decided to ask Mrs. Spencer to pick us out one when she went over to get her little girl. We heard last week she was going, so we sent her word by Richard Spencer’s folks at Carmody to bring us a smart, likely boy of about ten or eleven. We decided that would be the best age—old enough to be of some use in doing chores right off and young enough to be trained up proper. We mean to give him a good home and schooling. We had a telegram from Mrs. Alexander Spencer today—the mail-man brought it from the station— saying they were coming on the five-thirty train tonight. So Matthew went to Bright River to meet him. Mrs. Spencer will drop him off there. Of course she goes on to White Sands station herself.’
“嗯，我们已经考虑这个问题有一段时间了——事实上整个冬天，”马里拉回答道。 '太太。圣诞节前一天，亚历山大·斯宾塞来到这里，她说她要在春天从霍普顿的精神病院接一个小女孩过来。她的表弟住在那里，斯宾塞夫人也来过这里，并且知道这一切。从那时起，马修和我就断断续续地讨论过这个问题。我们以为我们会生一个男孩。马修已经上了年纪了，你知道的——他已经六十岁了——而且他不再像以前那样精神抖擞了。他的心很困扰他。你也知道要雇人帮忙是多么困难。除了那些愚蠢的、半大的法国小男孩之外，再也没有其他人了。一旦有人闯入你的生活方式并教了一些东西，他就会起身前往龙虾罐头厂或美国。起初马修建议找一个家庭男孩。但我对此断然说“不”。 “他们可能还好——我并不是说他们不好——但伦敦街头的阿拉伯人不适合我，”我说。 ‘至少给我一个土生土长的人。无论我们找谁，都会有风险。但如果我们有一个出生的加拿大人，我会感觉更轻松，晚上会睡得更香。”所以最后我们决定请斯宾塞夫人去接她的小女儿时为我们挑选一个。上周我们听说她要走了，所以我们通过卡莫迪的理查德·斯宾塞的人给她转了话，让她给我们带来一个聪明的、可能十岁或十一岁左右的男孩。我们认为这将是最好的年龄——足够大，可以立即做家务，并且足够年轻，可以接受适当的训练。我们的意思是给他一个好的家庭和良好的教育。今天我们收到了亚历山大·斯宾塞夫人的一封电报——邮递员从车站送来的——说他们今晚乘五点三十分的火车来。于是马修就去光明河去见他。太太。 斯宾塞会把他送到那里。当然，她自己也会前往白沙车站。’

Mrs. Rachel prided herself on always speaking her mind; she proceeded to speak it now, having adjusted her mental attitude to this amazing piece of news.
雷切尔夫人为自己总是说出自己的想法而感到自豪。她调整了心态，适应了这个惊人的消息，现在开始说道。

‘Well, Marilla, I’ll just tell you plain that I think you’re doing a mighty foolish thing—a risky thing, that’s what. You don’t know what you’re getting. You’re bringing a strange child into your house and home and you don’t know a single thing about him nor what his disposition is like nor what sort of parents he had nor how he’s likely to turn out. Why, it was only last week I read in the paper how a man and his wife up west of the Island took a boy out of an orphan asylum and he set fire to the house at night—set it ON PURPOSE, Marilla—and nearly burnt them to a crisp in their beds. And I know another case where an adopted boy used to suck the eggs—they couldn’t break him of it. If you had asked my advice in the matter—which you didn’t do, Marilla—I’d have said for mercy’s sake not to think of such a thing, that’s what.’
“好吧，玛丽拉，我只是简单地告诉你，我认为你正在做一件非常愚蠢的事情——一件冒险的事情，就是这样。你不知道你会得到什么。你把一个陌生的孩子带进你的家和家里，你对他一无所知，也不知道他的性格是什么样的，也不知道他有什么样的父母，也不知道他可能会变成什么样。就在上周，我在报纸上读到，岛上西部的一对夫妇从孤儿院带出了一个男孩，他在晚上放火烧了房子——玛丽拉，这是故意的——结果差点烧了房子。把他们在床上烧成碎片。我还知道另一个案例，一个被收养的男孩曾经吸吮鸡蛋——他们无法打破他。如果你在这件事上征求过我的建议——但你没有这么做，玛丽拉——我会说看在仁慈的份上，不要考虑这样的事情，就是这样。

This Job’s comforting seemed neither to offend nor to alarm Marilla. She knitted steadily on.
约伯的安慰似乎既没有冒犯玛丽拉，也没有让她惊慌。她稳稳地织着。

‘I don’t deny there’s something in what you say, Rachel. I’ve had some qualms myself. But Matthew was terrible set on it. I could see that, so I gave in. It’s so seldom Matthew sets his mind on anything that when he does I always feel it’s my duty to give in. And as for the risk, there’s risks in pretty near everything a body does in this world. There’s risks in people’s having children of their own if it comes to that—they don’t always turn out well. And then Nova Scotia is right close to the Island. It isn’t as if we were getting him from England or the States. He can’t be much different from ourselves.’
“我不否认你说的有道理，雷切尔。我自己也有一些疑虑。但马修对此的态度很糟糕。我可以看到这一点，所以我屈服了。马修很少下定决心做任何事情，所以当他这样做时，我总是觉得我有责任屈服。至于风险，在这方面，身体所做的几乎所有事情都存在风险。世界。如果涉及到这一点，人们拥有自己的孩子是有风险的——他们的结果并不总是那么好。新斯科舍省就在该岛附近。我们并不是从英国或美国引进他。他和我们不会有太大不同。

‘Well, I hope it will turn out all right,’ said Mrs. Rachel in a tone that plainly indicated her painful doubts. ‘Only don’t say I didn’t warn you if he burns Green Gables down or puts strychnine in the well—I heard of a case over in New Brunswick where an orphan asylum child did that and the whole family died in fearful agonies. Only, it was a girl in that instance.’
“好吧，我希望一切都会好起来，”雷切尔夫人的语气显然表明了她痛苦的怀疑。 “只是别说我没有警告过你，如果他烧毁了绿山墙，或者在井里放了马钱子碱——我听说过新不伦瑞克省的一个案例，一个孤儿院的孩子这么做了，全家人都在可怕的痛苦中死去。只是，当时是个女孩。”

‘Well, we’re not getting a girl,’ said Marilla, as if poisoning wells were a purely feminine accomplishment and not to be dreaded in the case of a boy. ‘I’d never dream of taking a girl to bring up. I wonder at Mrs. Alexander Spencer for doing it. But there, SHE wouldn’t shrink from adopting a whole orphan asylum if she took it into her head.’
“好吧，我们不会生女孩。”玛丽拉说道，仿佛在井里下毒纯粹是女性的成就，生男孩并不可怕。 “我从来没有梦想过要抚养一个女孩。我对亚历山大·斯宾塞夫人这样做感到好奇。但在那里，如果她脑子里有这个想法，她就不会犹豫收养整个孤儿院。”

Mrs. Rachel would have liked to stay until Matthew came home with his imported orphan. But reflecting that it would be a good two hours at least before his arrival she concluded to go up the road to Robert Bell’s and tell the news. It would certainly make a sensation second to none, and Mrs. Rachel dearly loved to make a sensation. So she took herself away, somewhat to Marilla’s relief, for the latter felt her doubts and fears reviving under the influence of Mrs. Rachel’s pessimism.
雷切尔夫人想留下来，直到马修带着他进口的孤儿回家。但考虑到距离他到达至少还有两个小时，她决定沿着路去罗伯特·贝尔家告诉这个消息。这肯定会引起无与伦比的轰动，而雷切尔夫人非常喜欢引起轰动。于是她就离开了，这多少让马里拉松了口气，因为后者感到自己的怀疑和恐惧在雷切尔夫人的悲观主义影响下重新燃起。

‘Well, of all things that ever were or will be!’ ejaculated Mrs. Rachel when she was safely out in the lane. ‘It does really seem as if I must be dreaming. Well, I’m sorry for that poor young one and no mistake. Matthew and Marilla don’t know anything about children and they’ll expect him to be wiser and steadier that his own grandfather, if so be’s he ever had a grandfather, which is doubtful. It seems uncanny to think of a child at Green Gables somehow; there’s never been one there, for Matthew and Marilla were grown up when the new house was built—if they ever WERE children, which is hard to believe when one looks at them. I wouldn’t be in that orphan’s shoes for anything. My, but I pity him, that’s what.’
“好吧，无论是过去还是将来的一切！”当雷切尔夫人安全地来到小巷时，她脱口而出。 “看来我确实是在做梦。好吧，我对那个可怜的年轻人感到抱歉，没有错。马修和玛丽拉对孩子一无所知，他们会期望他比他自己的祖父更聪明、更稳定，如果他曾经有过祖父，这是值得怀疑的。想到绿山墙的一个孩子，不知怎么的就显得有些不可思议了。那里从来没有人，因为新房子建成时马修和玛丽拉已经长大了——如果他们曾经是孩子的话，当人们看到他们时很难相信。我无论如何都不会站在那个孤儿的立场上。天啊，但我可怜他，就是这样。

So said Mrs. Rachel to the wild rose bushes out of the fulness of her heart; but if she could have seen the child who was waiting patiently at the Bright River station at that very moment her pity would have been still deeper and more profound.
雷切尔夫人对野玫瑰花丛如此说道，心里充满了满足。但如果此刻她能看到那个在光明河车站耐心等待的孩子，她的怜悯就会更加深刻。

Chapter II
第二章


Matthew Cuthbert is surprised
马修·库斯伯特很惊讶

Matthew Cuthbert and the sorrel mare jogged comfortably over the eight miles to Bright River. It was a pretty road, running along between snug farmsteads, with now and again a bit of balsamy fir wood to drive through or a hollow where wild plums hung out their filmy bloom. The air was sweet with the breath of many apple orchards and the meadows sloped away in the distance to horizon mists of pearl and purple; while
马修·库斯伯特和栗色母马轻松地慢跑了八英里，到达了布赖特河。这是一条漂亮的路，沿着舒适的农庄蜿蜒而行，时不时地可以驶过一些香脂冷杉木，或者是一个空地，那里野李子挂着薄薄的花朵。空气中弥漫着许多苹果园的芳香，草地在远处倾斜，一直延伸到地平线上的珍珠色和紫色的薄雾。尽管

‘The little birds sang as if it were
‘小鸟们唱着歌，仿佛

The one day of summer in all the year.’
一年中唯一的夏天。

Matthew enjoyed the drive after his own fashion, except during the moments when he met women and had to nod to them— for in Prince Edward island you are supposed to nod to all and sundry you meet on the road whether you know them or not.
马修按照自己的方式享受开车的乐趣，除了当他遇到女人并不得不向她们点头致意的时候——因为在爱德华王子岛，你应该向路上遇到的所有人致意，无论你是否认识她们。

Matthew dreaded all women except Marilla and Mrs. Rachel; he had an uncomfortable feeling that the mysterious creatures were secretly laughing at him. He may have been quite right in thinking so, for he was an odd-looking personage, with an ungainly figure and long iron-gray hair that touched his stooping shoulders, and a full, soft brown beard which he had worn ever since he was twenty. In fact, he had looked at twenty very much as he looked at sixty, lacking a little of the grayness.
马修害怕除了玛丽拉和雷切尔夫人之外的所有女人。他有一种不舒服的感觉，那些神秘生物正在偷偷地嘲笑他。他的想法也许是对的，因为他是一个相貌奇特的人物，身材笨拙，铁灰色的长发垂到了弯腰的肩膀，留着浓密柔软的棕色胡须，这是他从小就留着的。二十。事实上，他二十岁的样子和六十岁的样子很像，少了一点灰色。

When he reached Bright River there was no sign of any train; he thought he was too early, so he tied his horse in the yard of the small Bright River hotel and went over to the station house. The long platform was almost deserted; the only living creature in sight being a girl who was sitting on a pile of shingles at the extreme end. Matthew, barely noting that it WAS a girl, sidled past her as quickly as possible without looking at her. Had he looked he could hardly have failed to notice the tense rigidity and expectation of her attitude and expression. She was sitting there waiting for something or somebody and, since sitting and waiting was the only thing to do just then, she sat and waited with all her might and main.
当他到达布赖特河时，没有任何火车的迹象。他觉得来得太早了，就把马拴在亮河小旅馆的院子里，朝车站房走去。长长的平台上几乎空无一人。视野中唯一的生物是一个女孩，她坐在最末端的一堆木瓦上。马修几乎没有注意到那是一个女孩，他以最快的速度从她身边侧身而过，没有看她。如果他看的话，他几乎不可能不注意到她的态度和表情中的紧张僵硬和期待。她坐在那里等待某事或某个人，因为此时唯一能做的就是坐着等待，所以她全力以赴地坐着等待。

Matthew encountered the stationmaster locking up the ticket office preparatory to going home for supper, and asked him if the five-thirty train would soon be along.
马修遇到了正在锁着售票处准备回家吃晚饭的站长，他问他五点三十分的火车是否很快就会到站。

‘The five-thirty train has been in and gone half an hour ago,’ answered that brisk official. ‘But there was a passenger dropped off for you—a little girl. She’s sitting out there on the shingles. I asked her to go into the ladies’ waiting room, but she informed me gravely that she preferred to stay outside. ‘There was more scope for imagination,’ she said. She’s a case, I should say.’
“半小时前五点三十分的火车已经进站了，”那位活泼的官员回答道。 “但是有一位乘客来接你——一个小女孩。她坐在外面的木瓦上。我让她去女士候诊室，但她严肃地告诉我，她宁愿呆在外面。 “有更多的想象空间，”她说。我应该说，她是一个案例。

‘I’m not expecting a girl,’ said Matthew blankly. ‘It’s a boy I’ve come for. He should be here. Mrs. Alexander Spencer was to bring him over from Nova Scotia for me.’
“我没想到会是个女孩。”马修面无表情地说。 “我是为了一个男孩而来的。”他应该在这里。亚历山大·斯宾塞夫人要为我把他从新斯科舍省带过来。

The stationmaster whistled.
站长吹了一声口哨。

‘Guess there’s some mistake,’ he said. ‘Mrs. Spencer came off the train with that girl and gave her into my charge. Said you and your sister were adopting her from an orphan asylum and that you would be along for her presently. That’s all I know about it—and I haven’t got any more orphans concealed hereabouts.’
“猜猜有什么错误，”他说。 '太太。斯宾塞带着那个女孩下了火车，把她交给我照顾。说你和你姐姐从孤儿院收养了她，你很快就会陪伴她。这就是我所知道的一切——而且我没有再把孤儿藏在这附近了。

‘I don’t understand,’ said Matthew helplessly, wishing that Marilla was at hand to cope with the situation.
“我不明白，”马修无奈地说，希望玛丽拉能在场应付这种情况。

‘Well, you’d better question the girl,’ said the stationmaster carelessly. ‘I dare say she’ll be able to explain— she’s got a tongue of her own, that’s certain. Maybe they were out of boys of the brand you wanted.’
“好吧，你最好问问那个女孩。”站长漫不经心地说。 “我敢说她能够解释——她有自己的舌头，这是肯定的。也许他们不是你想要的那种品牌的男孩。

He walked jauntily away, being hungry, and the unfortunate Matthew was left to do that which was harder for him than bearding a lion in its den—walk up to a girl—a strange girl—an orphan girl—and demand of her why she wasn’t a boy. Matthew groaned in spirit as he turned about and shuffled gently down the platform towards her.
他饿着肚子，兴高采烈地走开，不幸的马修被迫去做比在洞里养狮子更难的事——走到一个女孩面前——一个陌生的女孩——一个孤儿女孩——并质问她为什么要这么做。不是男孩。马修在心里呻吟了一声，转身轻轻地走下站台，朝她走来。

She had been watching him ever since he had passed her and she had her eyes on him now. Matthew was not looking at her and would not have seen what she was really like if he had been, but an ordinary observer would have seen this: A child of about eleven, garbed in a very short, very tight, very ugly dress of yellowish-gray wincey. She wore a faded brown sailor hat and beneath the hat, extending down her back, were two braids of very thick, decidedly red hair. Her face was small, white and thin, also much freckled; her mouth was large and so were her eyes, which looked green in some lights and moods and gray in others.
自从他经过她身边以来，她就一直看着他，现在她的目光也落在了他身上。马修没有看她，如果他看的话，也不会看到她真正的样子，但是一个普通的观察者会看到这个：一个十一岁左右的孩子，穿着一件非常短、非常紧、非常难看的淡黄色连衣裙。 -灰色温西。她戴着一顶褪了色的棕色水手帽，帽子下面有两条辫子，辫子很粗，显然是红色的，一直延伸到她的背上。她的脸又小又白又瘦，还有很多雀斑。她的嘴很大，眼睛也很大，在某些光线和情绪下看起来是绿色的，而在另一些光线和情绪下看起来是灰色的。

So far, the ordinary observer; an extraordinary observer might have seen that the chin was very pointed and pronounced; that the big eyes were full of spirit and vivacity; that the mouth was sweet-lipped and expressive; that the forehead was broad and full; in short, our discerning extraordinary observer might have concluded that no commonplace soul inhabited the body of this stray womanchild of whom shy Matthew Cuthbert was so ludicrously afraid.
到目前为止，普通观察者；一个非凡的观察者可能会发现他的下巴非常尖且明显；那双大大的眼睛充满了精神和活力；嘴唇甜美，富有表现力；额头宽阔而饱满；简而言之，我们敏锐的非凡观察者可能会得出结论，这个流浪女人的身体里没有平凡的灵魂，害羞的马修·库斯伯特对她如此可笑的害怕。

Matthew, however, was spared the ordeal of speaking first, for as soon as she concluded that he was coming to her she stood up, grasping with one thin brown hand the handle of a shabby, old-fashioned carpet-bag; the other she held out to him.
然而，马修却没有先开口说话，因为当她断定他要向她走来时，她站了起来，用一只瘦瘦的棕色手抓住了一个破旧的老式地毯袋的把手；然后她就站了起来，用一只瘦瘦的棕色手抓住了一个破旧的老式地毯袋的把手。她把另一只递给了他。

‘I suppose you are Mr. Matthew Cuthbert of Green Gables?’ she said in a peculiarly clear, sweet voice. ‘I’m very glad to see you. I was beginning to be afraid you weren’t coming for me and I was imagining all the things that might have happened to prevent you. I had made up my mind that if you didn’t come for me to-night I’d go down the track to that big wild cherry-tree at the bend, and climb up into it to stay all night. I wouldn’t be a bit afraid, and it would be lovely to sleep in a wild cherry-tree all white with bloom in the moonshine, don’t you think? You could imagine you were dwelling in marble halls, couldn’t you? And I was quite sure you would come for me in the morning, if you didn’t to-night.’
“我想你是《绿山墙》的马修·卡斯伯特先生吧？”她用一种特别清晰、甜美的声音说道。 ‘我很高兴见到你。我开始担心你不会来找我，我想象着所有可能发生的事情来阻止你。我已经下定决心，如果你今晚不来找我，我就沿着小路走到拐弯处的那棵大野樱桃树下，然后爬到树上过夜。我不会有一点害怕，睡在一棵在月光下绽放的白色野樱桃树上该多好啊，你不觉得吗？你可以想象你住在大理石大厅里，不是吗？我很确定你早上会来找我，如果你今晚不来的话。

Matthew had taken the scrawny little hand awkwardly in his; then and there he decided what to do. He could not tell this child with the glowing eyes that there had been a mistake; he would take her home and let Marilla do that. She couldn’t be left at Bright River anyhow, no matter what mistake had been made, so all questions and explanations might as well be deferred until he was safely back at Green Gables.
马修笨拙地握着那只骨瘦如柴的小手。当场他就决定要做什么。他无法告诉这个眼睛发光的孩子，这是一个错误；他会带她回家，让玛丽拉去做。无论如何，她不能被留在光明河，无论犯了什么错误，所以所有的问题和解释不妨推迟到他安全返回绿山墙为止。

‘I’m sorry I was late,’ he said shyly. ‘Come along. The horse is over in the yard. Give me your bag.’
“对不起，我迟到了。”他害羞地说。 '一起来。马已经停在院子里了。把你的包给我。

‘Oh, I can carry it,’ the child responded cheerfully. ‘It isn’t heavy. I’ve got all my worldly goods in it, but it isn’t heavy. And if it isn’t carried in just a certain way the handle pulls out—so I’d better keep it because I know the exact knack of it. It’s an extremely old carpet-bag. Oh, I’m very glad you’ve come, even if it would have been nice to sleep in a wild cherry-tree. We’ve got to drive a long piece, haven’t we? Mrs. Spencer said it was eight miles. I’m glad because I love driving. Oh, it seems so wonderful that I’m going to live with you and belong to you. I’ve never belonged to anybody—not really. But the asylum was the worst. I’ve only been in it four months, but that was enough. I don’t suppose you ever were an orphan in an asylum, so you can’t possibly understand what it is like. It’s worse than anything you could imagine. Mrs. Spencer said it was wicked of me to talk like that, but I didn’t mean to be wicked. It’s so easy to be wicked without knowing it, isn’t it? They were good, you know—the asylum people. But there is so little scope for the imagination in an asylum—only just in the other orphans. It was pretty interesting to imagine things about them—to imagine that perhaps the girl who sat next to you was really the daughter of a belted earl, who had been stolen away from her parents in her infancy by a cruel nurse who died before she could confess. I used to lie awake at nights and imagine things like that, because I didn’t have time in the day. I guess that’s why I’m so thin—I AM dreadful thin, ain’t I? There isn’t a pick on my bones. I do love to imagine I’m nice and plump, with dimples in my elbows.’
“噢，我可以搬。”孩子高兴地回答。 ‘它不重。我所有的世俗物品都在里面，但它并不重。如果不以某种方式携带，把手就会拉出来——所以我最好保留它，因为我知道它的确切诀窍。这是一个非常旧的地毯包。哦，我很高兴你能来，即使睡在野樱桃树上也不错。我们必须开很长一段路，不是吗？斯宾塞夫人说有八英里。我很高兴，因为我喜欢开车。哦，我能和你住在一起并属于你，这真是太好了。我从来不属于任何人——不完全是。但庇护所是最糟糕的。我只呆了四个月，但这已经足够了。我想你从来都不是精神病院里的孤儿，所以你不可能理解那是什么感觉。这比你想象的还要糟糕。斯宾塞夫人说我这样说话很邪恶，但我并不是故意邪恶的。做坏事而不自知是很容易的，不是吗？你知道，他们都是好人——庇护所的人。但在精神病院里，想象力的发挥空间非常小——只有在其他孤儿身上才如此。想象一下关于他们的事情是很有趣的——想象一下，也许坐在你旁边的那个女孩真的是一位系腰带的伯爵的女儿，她在婴儿时期就被一个残忍的护士从她的父母身边偷走了，而护士在她还没有来得及之前就去世了。承认。我常常晚上睡不着觉，想象类似的事情，因为我白天没有时间。我想这就是我这么瘦的原因——我瘦得可怕，不是吗？我的骨头上没有镐。我确实喜欢想象自己漂亮又丰满，肘部有酒窝。

With this Matthew’s companion stopped talking, partly because she was out of breath and partly because they had reached the buggy. Not another word did she say until they had left the village and were driving down a steep little hill, the road part of which had been cut so deeply into the soft soil, that the banks, fringed with blooming wild cherry-trees and slim white birches, were several feet above their heads.
说到这里，马修的同伴不再说话了，部分是因为她气喘吁吁，部分是因为他们已经到了马车旁。她没有再说一句话，直到他们离开村庄，驶下一座陡峭的小山，路的一部分深深地切入松软的土壤中，河岸上长满了盛开的野樱桃树和纤细的白色树木。桦树，高出他们的头几英尺。

The child put out her hand and broke off a branch of wild plum that brushed against the side of the buggy.
孩子伸出手，折断了擦着马车侧面的一根野梅枝。

‘Isn’t that beautiful? What did that tree, leaning out from the bank, all white and lacy, make you think of?’ she asked.
‘那不是很漂亮吗？那棵树从岸边探出，全身白色，有花边，让你想到什么？”她问道。

‘Well now, I dunno,’ said Matthew.
“好吧，我不知道，”马修说。

‘Why, a bride, of course—a bride all in white with a lovely misty veil. I’ve never seen one, but I can imagine what she would look like. I don’t ever expect to be a bride myself. I’m so homely nobody will ever want to marry me— unless it might be a foreign missionary. I suppose a foreign missionary mightn’t be very particular. But I do hope that some day I shall have a white dress. That is my highest ideal of earthly bliss. I just love pretty clothes. And I’ve never had a pretty dress in my life that I can remember—but of course it’s all the more to look forward to, isn’t it? And then I can imagine that I’m dressed gorgeously. This morning when I left the asylum I felt so ashamed because I had to wear this horrid old wincey dress. All the orphans had to wear them, you know. A merchant in Hopeton last winter donated three hundred yards of wincey to the asylum. Some people said it was because he couldn’t sell it, but I’d rather believe that it was out of the kindness of his heart, wouldn’t you? When we got on the train I felt as if everybody must be looking at me and pitying me. But I just went to work and imagined that I had on the most beautiful pale blue silk dress—because when you ARE imagining you might as well imagine something worth while—and a big hat all flowers and nodding plumes, and a gold watch, and kid gloves and boots. I felt cheered up right away and I enjoyed my trip to the Island with all my might. I wasn’t a bit sick coming over in the boat. Neither was Mrs. Spencer although she generally is. She said she hadn’t time to get sick, watching to see that I didn’t fall overboard. She said she never saw the beat of me for prowling about. But if it kept her from being seasick it’s a mercy I did prowl, isn’t it? And I wanted to see everything that was to be seen on that boat, because I didn’t know whether I’d ever have another opportunity. Oh, there are a lot more cherry-trees all in bloom! This Island is the bloomiest place. I just love it already, and I’m so glad I’m going to live here. I’ve always heard that Prince Edward Island was the prettiest place in the world, and I used to imagine I was living here, but I never really expected I would. It’s delightful when your imaginations come true, isn’t it? But those red roads are so funny. When we got into the train at Charlottetown and the red roads began to flash past I asked Mrs. Spencer what made them red and she said she didn’t know and for pity’s sake not to ask her any more questions. She said I must have asked her a thousand already. I suppose I had, too, but how you going to find out about things if you don’t ask questions? And what DOES make the roads red?’
“哎呀，当然是新娘了——穿着一袭白衣，戴着可爱的薄雾面纱的新娘。我从未见过，但我可以想象她会是什么样子。我从来没想过自己会成为新娘。我是如此相貌平庸，没有人愿意嫁给我——除非是外国传教士。我想外国传教士可能不会很挑剔。但我确实希望有一天我能拥有一件白色的裙子。这是我对尘世幸福的最高理想。我只是喜欢漂亮的衣服。在我的记忆中，我这辈子从来没有穿过一件漂亮的衣服——但当然，这更值得期待，不是吗？然后我就能想象我穿着华丽。今天早上，当我离开精神病院时，我感到非常羞愧，因为我不得不穿这件可怕的旧裙子。你知道，所有的孤儿都必须穿上它们。去年冬天，霍普顿的一位商人向精神病院捐赠了三百码温西。有人说是因为卖不出去，但我宁愿相信这是出于他内心的善意，不是吗？当我们上了火车时，我觉得好像每个人都在看着我，可怜我。但我刚去上班，就想象自己穿着最漂亮的淡蓝色丝绸连衣裙——因为当你想象的时候，你不妨想象一些值得的东西——还有一顶布满鲜花和点头羽毛的大帽子，还有一块金表，还有小山羊皮手套和靴子。我立刻感到精神振奋，全力享受这次海岛之旅。我坐船过来的时候并没有感到有点不舒服。斯宾塞夫人也不是，尽管她通常是。她说她没有时间生病，要看着我不要落水。她说她从来没有见过我四处徘徊的节奏。但如果这能让她不晕船的话，那我也算是谢天谢地了，不是吗？ 我想看看那条船上能看到的一切，因为我不知道是否还有机会。哦，还有很多樱花树都在盛开！这个岛是花开最茂盛的地方。我已经喜欢它了，我很高兴我要住在这里。我一直听说爱德华王子岛是世界上最美丽的地方，我曾经想象过我住在这里，但我从未真正期望过我会住在这里。当你的想象成真时，真是令人高兴，不是吗？但那些红色的道路太有趣了。当我们在夏洛特敦登上火车时，红色的道路开始闪过，我问斯宾塞夫人是什么让它们变成红色的，她说她不知道，看在怜悯的份上，不再问她任何问题。她说我肯定已经问了她一千个了。我想我也有过，但是如果你不问问题，你怎么能了解事情呢？是什么使道路变红？’

‘Well now, I dunno,’ said Matthew.
“好吧，我不知道，”马修说。

‘Well, that is one of the things to find out sometime. Isn’t it splendid to think of all the things there are to find out about? It just makes me feel glad to be alive— it’s such an interesting world. It wouldn’t be half so interesting if we know all about everything, would it? There’d be no scope for imagination then, would there? But am I talking too much? People are always telling me I do. Would you rather I didn’t talk? If you say so I’ll stop. I can STOP when I make up my mind to it, although it’s difficult.’
“嗯，这是有时需要找出的事情之一。想到所有有待探索的事情，这不是很棒吗？这让我很高兴活着——这是一个如此有趣的世界。如果我们了解一切，那就没有那么有趣了，不是吗？那就没有想象空间了，不是吗？但我是不是说太多了？人们总是告诉我我愿意。你宁愿我不说话吗？如果你这么说我就停下来。当我下定决心时，我可以停下来，尽管这很困难。”

Matthew, much to his own surprise, was enjoying himself. Like most quiet folks he liked talkative people when they were willing to do the talking themselves and did not expect him to keep up his end of it. But he had never expected to enjoy the society of a little girl. Women were bad enough in all conscience, but little girls were worse. He detested the way they had of sidling past him timidly, with sidewise glances, as if they expected him to gobble them up at a mouthful if they ventured to say a word. That was the Avonlea type of well-bred little girl. But this freckled witch was very different, and although he found it rather difficult for his slower intelligence to keep up with her brisk mental processes he thought that he ‘kind of liked her chatter.’ So he said as shyly as usual:
令马修自己惊讶的是，他玩得很开心。像大多数安静的人一样，他喜欢健谈的人，因为他们愿意自己说话，并且不希望他继续说下去。但他没想到会喜欢和一个小女孩交往。凭良心来说，女人已经够糟糕的了，但小女孩更糟糕。他讨厌他们胆怯地从他身边侧过，斜视着，仿佛他们期待着如果他们敢说一句话，他就会把他们吞掉。那是埃文利类型的有教养的小女孩。但这个雀斑女巫却很不一样，虽然他发现自己较慢的智力很难跟上她敏捷的思维过程，但他认为自己“有点喜欢她的喋喋不休”，所以他像往常一样害羞地说：

‘Oh, you can talk as much as you like. I don’t mind.’
‘哦，你想讲多少就讲多少。我不介意。

‘Oh, I’m so glad. I know you and I are going to get along together fine. It’s such a relief to talk when one wants to and not be told that children should be seen and not heard. I’ve had that said to me a million times if I have once. And people laugh at me because I use big words. But if you have big ideas you have to use big words to express them, haven’t you?’
‘哦，我很高兴。我知道你和我会相处得很好。当一个人想说话的时候说话而不是被告知孩子应该被看到而不是被听到时，真是一种解脱。如果我有一次的话，我已经被这样说过一百万次了。人们嘲笑我，因为我用了大词。但如果你有伟大的想法，你就必须使用伟大的词语来表达它们，不是吗？

‘Well now, that seems reasonable,’ said Matthew.
“现在看来，这似乎很合理，”马修说。

‘Mrs. Spencer said that my tongue must be hung in the middle. But it isn’t—it’s firmly fastened at one end. Mrs. Spencer said your place was named Green Gables. I asked her all about it. And she said there were trees all around it. I was gladder than ever. I just love trees. And there weren’t any at all about the asylum, only a few poor weeny-teeny things out in front with little whitewashed cagey things about them. They just looked like orphans themselves, those trees did. It used to make me want to cry to look at them. I used to say to them, ‘Oh, you POOR little things! If you were out in a great big woods with other trees all around you and little mosses and Junebells growing over your roots and a brook not far away and birds singing in you branches, you could grow, couldn’t you? But you can’t where you are. I know just exactly how you feel, little trees.’ I felt sorry to leave them behind this morning. You do get so attached to things like that, don’t you? Is there a brook anywhere near Green Gables? I forgot to ask Mrs. Spencer that.’
'太太。斯宾塞说我的舌头必须悬在中间。但事实并非如此——它的一端被牢牢地固定住了。斯宾塞夫人说你住的地方叫绿山墙。我把这一切都问了她。她说周围都是树。我比以前更高兴了。我只是喜欢树。收容所里根本就没有任何东西，只有一些可怜的小东西在前面，周围有一些粉刷成白色的谨慎的东西。它们本身看起来就像孤儿，那些树就是如此。以前看着他们我就想哭。我常常对他们说：‘哦，你们这些可怜的小东西！如果你在一片大树林里，周围都是其他树木，根上长着小苔藓和六月铃，不远处有一条小溪，鸟儿在你的树枝上歌唱，你就能成长，不是吗？但你不能在你所在的地方。我完全了解你们的感受，小树。”今天早上我很遗憾把它们抛在了身后。你确实对这样的事情很执着，不是吗？绿山墙附近有小溪吗？我忘了问斯宾塞夫人这个问题了。

‘Well now, yes, there’s one right below the house.’
“好吧，是的，房子下面就有一个。”

‘Fancy. It’s always been one of my dreams to live near a brook. I never expected I would, though. Dreams don’t often come true, do they? Wouldn’t it be nice if they did? But just now I feel pretty nearly perfectly happy. I can’t feel exactly perfectly happy because—well, what color would you call this?’
'想要。住在小溪附近一直是我的梦想之一。但我从没想过我会这么做。梦想通常不会实现，不是吗？如果他们这样做不是很好吗？但现在我感觉几乎非常幸福。我无法感到完全幸福，因为——好吧，你会称之为什么颜色？

She twitched one of her long glossy braids over her thin shoulder and held it up before Matthew’s eyes. Matthew was not used to deciding on the tints of ladies’ tresses, but in this case there couldn’t be much doubt.
她把一根光滑的长辫子拉过她瘦弱的肩膀，把它举到马修眼前。马修不习惯决定女士头发的颜色，但在这种情况下，毫无疑问。

‘It’s red, ain’t it?’ he said.
“它是红色的，不是吗？”他说。

The girl let the braid drop back with a sigh that seemed to come from her very toes and to exhale forth all the sorrows of the ages.
女孩把辫子放下来，叹了口气，仿佛从脚趾间发出来，吐出了多年来所有的悲伤。

‘Yes, it’s red,’ she said resignedly. ‘Now you see why I can’t be perfectly happy. Nobody could who has red hair. I don’t mind the other things so much—the freckles and the green eyes and my skinniness. I can imagine them away. I can imagine that I have a beautiful rose-leaf complexion and lovely starry violet eyes. But I CANNOT imagine that red hair away. I do my best. I think to myself, ‘Now my hair is a glorious black, black as the raven’s wing.’ But all the time I KNOW it is just plain red and it breaks my heart. It will be my lifelong sorrow. I read of a girl once in a novel who had a lifelong sorrow but it wasn’t red hair. Her hair was pure gold rippling back from her alabaster brow. What is an alabaster brow? I never could find out. Can you tell me?’
“是的，它是红色的，”她无奈地说。 “现在你明白为什么我不能完全幸福了。红头发的人没有人能做到。我不太介意其他的事情——雀斑、绿眼睛和我的瘦削。我可以想象他们离开的样子。我可以想象我有美丽的玫瑰叶肤色和可爱的星光紫罗兰色的眼睛。但我无法想象那根红头发会消失。我尽力了。我心里想，“现在我的头发是光亮的黑色，黑得像乌鸦的翅膀。”但我一直知道它只是纯红色，这让我心碎。这将是我一生的悲伤。我曾经在一本小说里读到过一个女孩，她一生充满悲伤，但那不是红头发。她的头发是纯金色的，从她雪花石膏般的额头上垂下来。什么是雪花石膏眉？我始终无法找到答案。你能告诉我吗？'

‘Well now, I’m afraid I can’t,’ said Matthew, who was getting a little dizzy. He felt as he had once felt in his rash youth when another boy had enticed him on the merry-goround at a picnic.
“好吧，恐怕我不能，”马修说，他有点头晕。他的感觉就像他年轻时鲁莽时在野餐时被另一个男孩引诱到旋转木马时的感觉一样。

‘Well, whatever it was it must have been something nice because she was divinely beautiful. Have you ever imagined what it must feel like to be divinely beautiful?’
“好吧，不管是什么，那一定是件好事，因为她非常美丽。你有没有想象过拥有神圣美丽是什么感觉？

‘Well now, no, I haven’t,’ confessed Matthew ingenuously.
“好吧，不，我没有，”马修坦率地承认。

‘I have, often. Which would you rather be if you had the choice—divinely beautiful or dazzlingly clever or angelically good?’
“我经常这样。如果你有选择的话，你更愿意成为哪一个——美丽非凡、聪明绝顶还是天使般善良？

‘Well now, I—I don’t know exactly.’
“好吧，我——我不太清楚。”

‘Neither do I. I can never decide. But it doesn’t make much real difference for it isn’t likely I’ll ever be either. It’s certain I’ll never be angelically good. Mrs. Spencer says—oh, Mr. Cuthbert! Oh, Mr. Cuthbert!! Oh, Mr. Cuthbert!!!’
“我也不知道。我永远无法决定。”但这并没有多大真正的区别，因为我也不太可能成为这样的人。可以肯定的是，我永远不会成为天使般的好人。斯宾塞夫人说——哦，卡斯伯特先生！哦，卡斯伯特先生！！哦，卡斯伯特先生！！！”

That was not what Mrs. Spencer had said; neither had the child tumbled out of the buggy nor had Matthew done anything astonishing. They had simply rounded a curve in the road and found themselves in the ‘Avenue.’
斯宾塞夫人可不是这么说的。孩子既没有从马车上摔下来，马修也没有做出任何令人惊讶的事情。他们只是绕过了道路的一个弯道，发现自己来到了“大道”。

The ‘Avenue,’ so called by the Newbridge people, was a stretch of road four or five hundred yards long, completely arched over with huge, wide-spreading apple-trees, planted years ago by an eccentric old farmer. Overhead was one long canopy of snowy fragrant bloom. Below the boughs the air was full of a purple twilight and far ahead a glimpse of painted sunset sky shone like a great rose window at the end of a cathedral aisle.
纽布里奇人所谓的“大道”是一段四五百码长的路，完全呈拱形，上面种植着巨大而广泛的苹果树，这些苹果树是多年前由一位古怪的老农种植的。头顶上是一长长的树冠，开满了雪白的芬芳花朵。树枝下方，空气中弥漫着紫色的暮色，前方远处，一抹彩绘的落日天空闪闪发光，就像大教堂过道尽头的一扇巨大的玫瑰窗。

Its beauty seemed to strike the child dumb. She leaned back in the buggy, her thin hands clasped before her, her face lifted rapturously to the white splendor above. Even when they had passed out and were driving down the long slope to Newbridge she never moved or spoke. Still with rapt face she gazed afar into the sunset west, with eyes that saw visions trooping splendidly across that glowing background. Through Newbridge, a bustling little village where dogs barked at them and small boys hooted and curious faces peered from the windows, they drove, still in silence. When three more miles had dropped away behind them the child had not spoken. She could keep silence, it was evident, as energetically as she could talk.
它的美丽似乎让孩子目瞪口呆。她靠在马车上，瘦弱的双手紧握在身前，脸上欣喜若狂地仰望着头顶白色的光彩。即使他们昏倒了，沿着长长的斜坡开车前往新桥，她也没有动弹，也没有说话。她仍然全神贯注地凝视着远处的夕阳西下，眼睛里看到了在发光的背景上华丽地游行的景象。他们开车穿过纽布里奇，这是一个熙熙攘攘的小村庄，那里有狗对着他们狂吠，小男孩们在叫，好奇的面孔从车窗里张望。当他们身后又走了三英里时，孩子还是没有说话。很明显，她可以保持沉默，就像她可以说话一样充满活力。

‘I guess you’re feeling pretty tired and hungry,’ Matthew ventured to say at last, accounting for her long visitation of dumbness with the only reason he could think of. ‘But we haven’t very far to go now—only another mile.’
“我猜你感觉很累又饿了，”马修最后大胆地说，这是他能想到的唯一原因，解释了她长期以来的沉默。 “但我们现在还没有走多远——只剩下一英里了。”

She came out of her reverie with a deep sigh and looked at him with the dreamy gaze of a soul that had been wondering afar, star-led.
她深深地叹了口气，从沉思中醒来，用一颗星辰引导的灵魂在远方徘徊的梦幻般的目光看着他。

‘Oh, Mr. Cuthbert,’ she whispered, ‘that place we came through—that white place—what was it?’
“哦，卡斯伯特先生，”她低声说道，“我们经过的那个地方——那个白色的地方——那是什么？”

‘Well now, you must mean the Avenue,’ said Matthew after a few moments’ profound reflection. ‘It is a kind of pretty place.’
“好吧，你指的是大街，”马修深思了一会儿后说道。 “这是一个很漂亮的地方。”

‘Pretty? Oh, PRETTY doesn’t seem the right word to use. Nor beautiful, either. They don’t go far enough. Oh, it was wonderful—wonderful. It’s the first thing I ever saw that couldn’t be improved upon by imagination. It just satisfies me here’—she put one hand on her breast—‘it made a queer funny ache and yet it was a pleasant ache. Did you ever have an ache like that, Mr. Cuthbert?’
'漂亮的？哦，“漂亮”这个词似乎不太合适。也不漂亮。他们走得还不够远。哦，太棒了——太棒了。这是我见过的第一件无法通过想象力改进的事情。它让我在这里很满足”——她把一只手放在胸前——“它带来一种奇怪而有趣的疼痛，但又是一种令人愉快的疼痛。卡斯伯特先生，你有过这样的疼痛吗？

‘Well now, I just can’t recollect that I ever had.’
“现在，我只是记不起我曾经有过这样的经历。”

‘I have it lots of time—whenever I see anything royally beautiful. But they shouldn’t call that lovely place the Avenue. There is no meaning in a name like that. They should call it—let me see—the White Way of Delight. Isn’t that a nice imaginative name? When I don’t like the name of a place or a person I always imagine a new one and always think of them so. There was a girl at the asylum whose name was Hepzibah Jenkins, but I always imagined her as Rosalia DeVere. Other people may call that place the Avenue, but I shall always call it the White Way of Delight. Have we really only another mile to go before we get home? I’m glad and I’m sorry. I’m sorry because this drive has been so pleasant and I’m always sorry when pleasant things end. Something still pleasanter may come after, but you can never be sure. And it’s so often the case that it isn’t pleasanter. That has been my experience anyhow. But I’m glad to think of getting home. You see, I’ve never had a real home since I can remember. It gives me that pleasant ache again just to think of coming to a really truly home. Oh, isn’t that pretty!’
“我有很多时间——每当我看到任何皇家美丽的东西时。但他们不应该称那个可爱的地方为大道。这样的名字没有任何意义。他们应该称之为——让我想想——白色的快乐之路。这不是一个充满想象力的好名字吗？当我不喜欢一个地方或一个人的名字时，我总是想象一个新的名字，并且总是这样想。精神病院里有一个女孩，名叫赫普兹巴·詹金斯，但我一直把她想象成罗莎莉亚·德维尔。其他人可能称那个地方为大道，但我将永远称其为“白色欢乐之路”。我们真的只剩下一英里路才能回家吗？我很高兴也很抱歉。我很抱歉，因为这次驾驶是如此愉快，当愉快的事情结束时我总是感到抱歉。之后可能会发生更令人愉快的事情，但你永远不能确定。而且这种情况经常发生，这并不令人愉快。无论如何，这就是我的经历。但一想到回家我就很高兴。你看，自从我记事起，我就从来没有一个真正的家。一想到要回到一个真正的家，我就再次感到愉快的疼痛。哦，那不是很漂亮吗！

They had driven over the crest of a hill. Below them was a pond, looking almost like a river so long and winding was it. A bridge spanned it midway and from there to its lower end, where an amber-hued belt of sand-hills shut it in from the dark blue gulf beyond, the water was a glory of many shifting hues—the most spiritual shadings of crocus and rose and ethereal green, with other elusive tintings for which no name has ever been found. Above the bridge the pond ran up into fringing groves of fir and maple and lay all darkly translucent in their wavering shadows. Here and there a wild plum leaned out from the bank like a white-clad girl tip-toeing to her own reflection. From the marsh at the head of the pond came the clear, mournfully-sweet chorus of the frogs. There was a little gray house peering around a white apple orchard on a slope beyond and, although it was not yet quite dark, a light was shining from one of its windows.
他们已经驶过山顶。他们下面是一个池塘，看起来几乎像一条河，又长又蜿蜒。一座桥横跨在中间，从那里一直延伸到低端，那里有一条琥珀色的沙丘带将它与远处的深蓝色海湾隔开，海水呈现出多种变幻色彩的光辉——番红花和番红花最具灵性的色调。玫瑰色和飘逸的绿色，以及其他难以捉摸的色调，但尚未找到其名称。桥上的池塘一直延伸到边缘的冷杉和枫树林，在它们摇曳的阴影中呈现出黑暗的半透明状态。岸边时不时地探出一株野梅，像一个白衣少女踮着脚尖对着自己的倒影。池塘头的沼泽地里传来青蛙们清脆、哀伤、甜美的合唱。有一座灰色的小房子，俯瞰着远处斜坡上的白色苹果园，虽然天还没有完全黑，但它的一扇窗户却透出一丝灯光。

‘That’s Barry’s pond,’ said Matthew.
“那是巴里的池塘，”马修说。

‘Oh, I don’t like that name, either. I shall call it—let me see—the Lake of Shining Waters. Yes, that is the right name for it. I know because of the thrill. When I hit on a name that suits exactly it gives me a thrill. Do things ever give you a thrill?’
“哦，我也不喜欢这个名字。我将把它称为——让我想想——闪亮水域湖。是的，这是它的正确名称。我知道是因为兴奋。当我想到一个完全适合的名字时，我感到很兴奋。有什么事情会让你感到兴奋吗？

Matthew ruminated.
马修沉思着。

‘Well now, yes. It always kind of gives me a thrill to see them ugly white grubs that spade up in the cucumber beds. I hate the look of them.’
‘好吧，是的。看到它们在黄瓜床上爬出丑陋的白色幼虫，总是让我感到兴奋。我讨厌他们的样子。

‘Oh, I don’t think that can be exactly the same kind of a thrill. Do you think it can? There doesn’t seem to be much connection between grubs and lakes of shining waters, does there? But why do other people call it Barry’s pond?’
“哦，我不认为这会是完全相同的刺激。你觉得可以吗？幼虫和波光粼粼的湖泊之间似乎没有太多联系，不是吗？但为什么其他人称它为巴里池塘呢？

‘I reckon because Mr. Barry lives up there in that house. Orchard Slope’s the name of his place. If it wasn’t for that big bush behind it you could see Green Gables from here. But we have to go over the bridge and round by the road, so it’s near half a mile further.’
“我想是因为巴里先生就住在那所房子里。果园坡是他那地方的名字。如果不是后面有大灌木丛，你从这里就能看到绿山墙。但我们必须过桥再绕路，所以又走了近半英里。”

‘Has Mr. Barry any little girls? Well, not so very little either—about my size.’
“巴里先生有小女孩吗？”嗯，也不是那么小——大约是我的尺寸。”

‘He’s got one about eleven. Her name is Diana.’
“他有一个大约十一点。她的名字叫戴安娜。

‘Oh!’ with a long indrawing of breath. ‘What a perfectly lovely name!’
“哦！”长长地吸了一口气。 “多么可爱的名字啊！”

‘Well now, I dunno. There’s something dreadful heathenish about it, seems to me. I’d ruther Jane or Mary or some sensible name like that. But when Diana was born there was a schoolmaster boarding there and they gave him the naming of her and he called her Diana.’
‘现在，我不知道了。在我看来，这有一些可怕的异教色彩。我宁愿选择简或玛丽或类似的明智的名字。但当戴安娜出生时，有一位校长寄宿在那里，他们给了他给她起的名字，他称她为戴安娜。”

‘I wish there had been a schoolmaster like that around when I was born, then. Oh, here we are at the bridge. I’m going to shut my eyes tight. I’m always afraid going over bridges. I can’t help imagining that perhaps just as we get to the middle, they’ll crumple up like a jack-knife and nip us. So I shut my eyes. But I always have to open them for all when I think we’re getting near the middle. Because, you see, if the bridge DID crumple up I’d want to SEE it crumple. What a jolly rumble it makes! I always like the rumble part of it. Isn’t it splendid there are so many things to like in this world? There we’re over. Now I’ll look back. Good night, dear Lake of Shining Waters. I always say good night to the things I love, just as I would to people I think they like it. That water looks as if it was smiling at me.’
“我希望我出生时身边就有一位这样的校长。”噢，我们到了桥上。我要闭紧眼睛。我总是害怕过桥。我不禁想象，也许当我们到达中间时，它们就会像折刀一样崩​​溃并咬住我们。于是我闭上了眼睛。但当我认为我们已经接近中间时，我总是必须为所有人打开它们。因为，你看，如果这座桥确实塌陷了，我希望看到它塌陷。它发出多么欢乐的隆隆声啊！我总是喜欢其中的隆隆声部分。这世界上有这么多值得喜欢的东西，这不是很棒吗？我们就这样结束了。现在我回头看看。晚安，亲爱的闪亮水域湖。我总是对我喜欢的事物说晚安，就像我对我认为他们喜欢的人说晚安一样。那水看起来好像在对我微笑。”

When they had driven up the further hill and around a corner Matthew said:
当他们驶上更远的山坡并拐过一个拐角时，马修说：

‘We’re pretty near home now. That’s Green Gables over—‘
‘我们现在离家很近了。 《绿山墙》就这样结束了——’

‘Oh, don’t tell me,’ she interrupted breathlessly, catching at his partially raised arm and shutting her eyes that she might not see his gesture. ‘Let me guess. I’m sure I’ll guess right.’
“哦，别告诉我，”她气喘吁吁地打断道，抓住他半举起的手臂，闭上眼睛以免看到他的动作。 '让我猜猜。我确信我会猜对的。

She opened her eyes and looked about her. They were on the crest of a hill. The sun had set some time since, but the landscape was still clear in the mellow afterlight. To the west a dark church spire rose up against a marigold sky. Below was a little valley and beyond a long, gently-rising slope with snug farmsteads scattered along it. From one to another the child’s eyes darted, eager and wistful. At last they lingered on one away to the left, far back from the road, dimly white with blossoming trees in the twilight of the surrounding woods. Over it, in the stainless southwest sky, a great crystal-white star was shining like a lamp of guidance and promise.
她睁开眼睛，环顾四周。他们在山顶上。太阳已经落山有一段时间了，但在柔和的余光中，风景仍然清晰。西边，一座黑色的教堂尖顶在万寿菊色的天空下拔地而起。下面是一个小山谷，后面是一个缓慢上升的长斜坡，沿着斜坡散布着舒适的农庄。孩子的目光从一个地方扫到另一个地方，充满渴望和渴望。最后，他们在左边的一处徘徊，远离道路，在周围树林的暮色中，树木绽放出淡淡的白色。在它的上方，在无污染的西南天空中，一颗巨大的水晶白色星星像一盏指引和希望的灯一样闪闪发光。

‘That’s it, isn’t it?’ she said, pointing.
“就是这个，不是吗？”她指着说。

Matthew slapped the reins on the sorrel’s back delightedly.
马修高兴地把缰绳拍在酢浆草背上。

‘Well now, you’ve guessed it! But I reckon Mrs. Spencer described it so’s you could tell.’
‘现在，你已经猜到了！但我认为斯宾塞夫人描述了它，所以你可以看出来。

‘No, she didn’t—really she didn’t. All she said might just as well have been about most of those other places. I hadn’t any real idea what it looked like. But just as soon as I saw it I felt it was home. Oh, it seems as if I must be in a dream. Do you know, my arm must be black and blue from the elbow up, for I’ve pinched myself so many times today. Every little while a horrible sickening feeling would come over me and I’d be so afraid it was all a dream. Then I’d pinch myself to see if it was real—until suddenly I remembered that even supposing it was only a dream I’d better go on dreaming as long as I could; so I stopped pinching. But it IS real and we’re nearly home.’
“不，她没有——真的没有。她所说的一切可能也都是关于其他大多数地方的。我根本不知道它是什么样子。但当我看到它的时候，我就觉得这是家。哦，看来我一定是在梦里了。你知道吗，我的手臂从肘部以上一定是青一块紫一块的，因为我今天掐了自己好多次了。每隔一段时间，一种可怕的、令人作呕的感觉就会袭上心头，我真害怕这只是一场梦。然后我会掐自己一下，看看这是不是真的——直到我突然想起，即使这只是一个梦，我也最好尽可能地继续做梦；所以我不再捏了。但这是真实的，我们就快到家了。”

With a sigh of rapture she relapsed into silence. Matthew stirred uneasily. He felt glad that it would be Marilla and not he who would have to tell this waif of the world that the home she longed for was not to be hers after all. They drove over Lynde’s Hollow, where it was already quite dark, but not so dark that Mrs. Rachel could not see them from her window vantage, and up the hill and into the long lane of Green Gables. By the time they arrived at the house Matthew was shrinking from the approaching revelation with an energy he did not understand. It was not of Marilla or himself he was thinking of the trouble this mistake was probably going to make for them, but of the child’s disappointment. When he thought of that rapt light being quenched in her eyes he had an uncomfortable feeling that he was going to assist at murdering something—much the same feeling that came over him when he had to kill a lamb or calf or any other innocent little creature.
她欣喜若狂地叹了口气，又陷入了沉默。马修不安地动了动。他很高兴，是玛丽拉，而不是他，必须告诉这个世界上的流浪儿，她所渴望的家毕竟不是她的。他们开车经过林德山谷，那里已经很黑了，但还没有黑到雷切尔夫人从窗外看不到他们的程度，然后上了山，进入了绿山墙的长巷。当他们到达房子时，马修正以一种他无法理解的能量来躲避即将到来的启示。他想到的不是这个错误可能给他们带来的麻烦，而是孩子的失望。当他想到她眼中的全神贯注的光芒被熄灭时，他有一种不舒服的感觉，他要协助谋杀什么东西——就像他不得不杀死一只羔羊或小牛或任何其他无辜的小动物时所产生的感觉一样。 。

The yard was quite dark as they turned into it and the poplar leaves were rustling silkily all round it.
他们走进院子时，院子里一片漆黑，周围的白杨树叶丝般沙沙作响。

‘Listen to the trees talking in their sleep,’ she whispered, as he lifted her to the ground. ‘What nice dreams they must have!’
“听听树木在睡梦中说话，”当他把她抱到地上时，她低声说道。 “他们一定有多么美好的梦想啊！”

Then, holding tightly to the carpet-bag which contained ‘all her worldly goods,’ she followed him into the house.
然后，她紧紧抓住装着“她所有世俗物品”的地毯袋，跟着他进了屋。

Chapter III
第三章


Marilla Cuthbert is Surprised
玛丽拉·库斯伯特很惊讶

Marilla came briskly forward as Matthew opened the door. But when her eyes fell of the odd little figure in the stiff, ugly dress, with the long braids of red hair and the eager, luminous eyes, she stopped short in amazement.
马修打开门时，玛丽拉轻快地走了过来。但当她的目光落到那个奇怪的小身影身上时，她穿着僵硬丑陋的衣服，留着长长的红发辫子，眼睛热切而明亮，她惊讶地停了下来。

‘Matthew Cuthbert, who’s that?’ she ejaculated. ‘Where is the boy?’
“马修·库斯伯特，那是谁？”她喊道。 “男孩在哪儿？”

‘There wasn’t any boy,’ said Matthew wretchedly. ‘There was only HER.’
“没有男孩。”马修可怜兮兮地说。 “只有她。”

He nodded at the child, remembering that he had never even asked her name.
他对孩子点点头，记得自己从来没有问过她的名字。

‘No boy! But there MUST have been a boy,’ insisted Marilla. ‘We sent word to Mrs. Spencer to bring a boy.’
‘不，小伙子！但一定有一个男孩，”玛丽拉坚持说。 “我们通知斯宾塞夫人带一个男孩来。”

‘Well, she didn’t. She brought HER. I asked the stationmaster. And I had to bring her home. She couldn’t be left there, no matter where the mistake had come in.’
‘好吧，她没有。她带来了她。我问站长。我不得不带她回家。无论错误出在哪里，她都不能被留在那里。

‘Well, this is a pretty piece of business!’ ejaculated Marilla.
“嗯，这真是一笔漂亮的生意！”玛丽拉脱口而出。

During this dialogue the child had remained silent, her eyes roving from one to the other, all the animation fading out of her face. Suddenly she seemed to grasp the full meaning of what had been said. Dropping her precious carpet-bag she sprang forward a step and clasped her hands.
在这段对话中，孩子一直保持沉默，她的眼睛从一个地方转到另一个地方，所有的生气都从她脸上消失了。突然间，她似乎明白了刚才所说的话的全部含义。她扔下珍贵的地毯包，向前迈出一步，紧握双手。

‘You don’t want me!’ she cried. ‘You don’t want me because I’m not a boy! I might have expected it. Nobody ever did want me. I might have known it was all too beautiful to last. I might have known nobody really did want me. Oh, what shall I do? I’m going to burst into tears!’
“你不要我了！”她叫道。 ‘你不想要我，因为我不是男孩！我可能已经预料到了。从来没有人想要我。我可能已经知道这一切都太美丽而难以持久。我可能知道没有人真正想要我。哦，我该怎么办？我要哭了！

Burst into tears she did. Sitting down on a chair by the table, flinging her arms out upon it, and burying her face in them, she proceeded to cry stormily. Marilla and Matthew looked at each other deprecatingly across the stove. Neither of them knew what to say or do. Finally Marilla stepped lamely into the breach.
她确实泪流满面。她坐在桌边的椅子上，伸出双臂，把脸埋在里面，放声大哭起来。玛丽拉和马修隔着炉子不屑地看着对方。他们都不知道该说什么或该做什么。最后，玛丽拉一瘸一拐地走进了缺口。

‘Well, well, there’s no need to cry so about it.’
「好了好了，没必要哭成这样吧。」

‘Yes, there IS need!’ The child raised her head quickly, revealing a tear-stained face and trembling lips. ‘YOU would cry, too, if you were an orphan and had come to a place you thought was going to be home and found that they didn’t want you because you weren’t a boy. Oh, this is the most TRAGICAL thing that ever happened to me!’
“是的，需要！”孩子迅速抬起头，露出一张泪痕累累的脸和颤抖的嘴唇。 “如果你是一个孤儿，来到一个你以为会回家的地方，却发现他们不想要你，因为你不是男孩，你也会哭。”哦，这是我经历过的最悲惨的事情！

Something like a reluctant smile, rather rusty from long disuse, mellowed Marilla’s grim expression.
玛丽拉冷酷的表情像是一种不情愿的微笑，由于长期未使用而显得有些生锈。

‘Well, don’t cry any more. We’re not going to turn you outof-doors to-night. You’ll have to stay here until we investigate this affair. What’s your name?’
‘好了，别再哭了。今晚我们不会把你赶到户外。在我们调查这件事之前你必须留在这里。你叫什么名字？'

The child hesitated for a moment.
孩子犹豫了片刻。

‘Will you please call me Cordelia?’ she said eagerly.
“请叫我科迪莉亚好吗？”她热切地说。

‘CALL you Cordelia? Is that your name?’
“叫你科迪莉亚吗？”那是你的名字吗？'

‘No-o-o, it’s not exactly my name, but I would love to be called Cordelia. It’s such a perfectly elegant name.’
“不，不，不，这不完全是我的名字，但我很想被称为科迪莉亚。”这是一个非常优雅的名字。

‘I don’t know what on earth you mean. If Cordelia isn’t your name, what is?’
“我不知道你到底是什么意思。如果科迪莉亚不是你的名字，那是什么？

‘Anne Shirley,’ reluctantly faltered forth the owner of that name, ‘but, oh, please do call me Cordelia. It can’t matter much to you what you call me if I’m only going to be here a little while, can it? And Anne is such an unromantic name.’
“安妮·雪莉，”这个名字的主人不情愿地支吾其词，“但是，哦，请叫我科迪莉亚。”如果我只在这里呆一会儿，你怎么称呼我并不重要，不是吗？安妮这个名字实在是太不浪漫了。”

‘Unromantic fiddlesticks!’ said the unsympathetic Marilla. ‘Anne is a real good plain sensible name. You’ve no need to be ashamed of it.’
“不浪漫的胡闹！”毫无同情心的玛丽拉说道。 ‘安妮是一个真正好的、简单的、明智的名字。你不必为此感到羞耻。

‘Oh, I’m not ashamed of it,’ explained Anne, ‘only I like Cordelia better. I’ve always imagined that my name was Cordelia—at least, I always have of late years. When I was young I used to imagine it was Geraldine, but I like Cordelia better now. But if you call me Anne please call me Anne spelled with an E.’
“哦，我并不为此感到羞耻，”安妮解释道，“只是我更喜欢科迪莉亚。”我一直想象我的名字叫科迪莉亚——至少，近年来我总是这么想。当我年轻的时候，我常常想象她是杰拉尔丁，但现在我更喜欢科迪莉亚。但如果你叫我安妮，请叫我拼写为 E 的安妮。”

‘What difference does it make how it’s spelled?’ asked Marilla with another rusty smile as she picked up the teapot.
“拼写有什么区别？”玛丽拉拿起茶壶，脸上又带着生锈的微笑问道。

‘Oh, it makes SUCH a difference. It LOOKS so much nicer. When you hear a name pronounced can’t you always see it in your mind, just as if it was printed out? I can; and A-n-n looks dreadful, but A-n-n-e looks so much more distinguished. If you’ll only call me Anne spelled with an E I shall try to reconcile myself to not being called Cordelia.’
‘哦，这真是有天壤之别。它看起来好多了。当你听到一个名字被念出来时，你是不是总能在脑海中看到它，就像它被打印出来一样？我可以; A-n-n 看起来很可怕，但 A-n-n-e 看起来要高贵得多。如果你只叫我安妮（拼写为 E），我会努力让自己不被称为科迪莉亚。

‘Very well, then, Anne spelled with an E, can you tell us how this mistake came to be made? We sent word to Mrs. Spencer to bring us a boy. Were there no boys at the asylum?’
“很好，那么，安妮拼写的是 E，你能告诉我们这个错误是怎么犯的吗？我们通知斯宾塞夫人给我们生一个男孩。精神病院里没有男孩吗？

‘Oh, yes, there was an abundance of them. But Mrs. Spencer said DISTINCTLY that you wanted a girl about eleven years old. And the matron said she thought I would do. You don’t know how delighted I was. I couldn’t sleep all last night for joy. Oh,’ she added reproachfully, turning to Matthew, ‘why didn’t you tell me at the station that you didn’t want me and leave me there? If I hadn’t seen the White Way of Delight and the Lake of Shining Waters it wouldn’t be so hard.’
“哦，是的，数量很多。但斯宾塞夫人明确表示，你想要一个十一岁左右的女孩。女护士长说她认为我可以。你不知道我有多高兴。昨晚我高兴得睡不着觉。哦，”她转向马修，责备地补充道，“你为什么不在车站告诉我你不想要我，然后把我留在那里呢？如果我没有看到白色的欢乐之路和闪亮的水湖，事情就不会这么难了。

‘What on earth does she mean?’ demanded Marilla, staring at Matthew.
“她到底是什么意思？”玛丽拉盯着马修问道。

‘She—she’s just referring to some conversation we had on the road,’ said Matthew hastily. ‘I’m going out to put the mare in, Marilla. Have tea ready when I come back.’
“她——她只是指我们在路上的一些谈话。”马修急忙说道。 “我要出去把母马放进去，玛丽拉。等我回来的时候，把茶准备好。”

‘Did Mrs. Spencer bring anybody over besides you?’ continued Marilla when Matthew had gone out.
“除了你之外，斯宾塞夫人还带了其他人过来吗？”马修出去后，玛丽拉继续说道。

‘She brought Lily Jones for herself. Lily is only five years old and she is very beautiful and had nut-brown hair. If I was very beautiful and had nut-brown hair would you keep me?’
“她为自己带来了莉莉·琼斯。莉莉只有五岁，非常漂亮，有一头坚果棕色的头发。如果我很漂亮，有一头坚果棕色的头发，你会留下我吗？

‘No. We want a boy to help Matthew on the farm. A girl would be of no use to us. Take off your hat. I’ll lay it and your bag on the hall table.’
'不。我们想要一个男孩在农场帮助马修。一个女孩对我们来说没有任何用处。脱掉你的帽子。我会把它和你的包放在大厅的桌子上。

Anne took off her hat meekly. Matthew came back presently and they sat down to supper. But Anne could not eat. In vain she nibbled at the bread and butter and pecked at the crab-apple preserve out of the little scalloped glass dish by her plate. She did not really make any headway at all.
安妮温顺地摘下了帽子。马修很快回来了，他们坐下来吃晚饭。但安妮不能吃饭。她徒劳地啃着面包和黄油，又从盘子旁边的小扇形玻璃盘里啄食海棠蜜饯。她根本没有取得任何进展。

‘You’re not eating anything,’ said Marilla sharply, eying her as if it were a serious shortcoming. Anne sighed.
“你什么也没吃，”玛丽拉尖锐地说，看着她，好像这是一个严重的缺点。安妮叹了口气。

‘I can’t. I’m in the depths of despair. Can you eat when you are in the depths of despair?’
‘我不能。我正处于绝望的深渊。当你处于绝望的深渊时，你还能吃东西吗？

‘I’ve never been in the depths of despair, so I can’t say,’ responded Marilla.
“我从来没有陷入过绝望的深渊，所以我不能说，”玛丽拉回答道。

‘Weren’t you? Well, did you ever try to IMAGINE you were in the depths of despair?’
‘不是吗？那么，你有没有尝试过想象自己正处于绝望的深渊？

‘No, I didn’t.’
“不，我没有。”

‘Then I don’t think you can understand what it’s like. It’s very uncomfortable feeling indeed. When you try to eat a lump comes right up in your throat and you can’t swallow anything, not even if it was a chocolate caramel. I had one chocolate caramel once two years ago and it was simply delicious. I’ve often dreamed since then that I had a lot of chocolate caramels, but I always wake up just when I’m going to eat them. I do hope you won’t be offended because I can’t eat. Everything is extremely nice, but still I cannot eat.’
‘那么我认为你无法理解那是什么感觉。这确实是一种非常不舒服的感觉。当你试图吃东西时，一个肿块会直接卡在你的喉咙里，你无法吞咽任何东西，即使是巧克力焦糖。两年前我吃过一次巧克力焦糖，非常美味。从那时起，我经常梦见我有很多巧克力焦糖，但我总是在要吃它们的时候醒来。我真心希望你不会因为我不能吃饭而生气。一切都非常好，但我还是吃不下。”

‘I guess she’s tired,’ said Matthew, who hadn’t spoken since his return from the barn. ‘Best put her to bed, Marilla.’
“我猜她累了，”马修说，自从他从谷仓回来后，他就没有说过话。 “最好让她上床睡觉，玛丽拉。”

Marilla had been wondering where Anne should be put to bed. She had prepared a couch in the kitchen chamber for the desired and expected boy. But, although it was neat and clean, it did not seem quite the thing to put a girl there somehow. But the spare room was out of the question for such a stray waif, so there remained only the east gable room. Marilla lighted a candle and told Anne to follow her, which Anne spiritlessly did, taking her hat and carpet-bag from the hall table as she passed. The hall was fearsomely clean; the little gable chamber in which she presently found herself seemed still cleaner.
玛丽拉一直在想应该把安妮安放在哪里睡觉。她在厨房里为心仪的男孩准备了一张沙发。不过，虽然干净整洁，但把一个女孩子放在那里似乎不太合适。但对于这样一个流浪儿来说，空余房间是不可能的，所以只剩下东山墙的房间了。玛丽拉点燃一支蜡烛，让安妮跟着她，安妮无精打采地照做了，在她经过时，从大厅的桌子上拿走了她的帽子和地毯包。大厅干净得可怕。她现在发现自己所在的小山墙房间看起来更干净了。

Marilla set the candle on a three-legged, three-cornered table and turned down the bedclothes.
玛丽拉把蜡烛放在一张三腿三角的桌子上，然后把床单翻下来。

‘I suppose you have a nightgown?’ she questioned.
“我想你有睡衣吧？”她问道。

Anne nodded.
安妮点点头。

‘Yes, I have two. The matron of the asylum made them for me. They’re fearfully skimpy. There is never enough to go around in an asylum, so things are always skimpy—at least in a poor asylum like ours. I hate skimpy night-dresses. But one can dream just as well in them as in lovely trailing ones, with frills around the neck, that’s one consolation.’
‘是的，我有两个。精神病院的护士长为我做的。他们非常吝啬。收容所里永远都没有足够的东西，所以东西总是很简陋——至少在像我们这样贫穷的收容所里是这样。我讨厌暴露的睡裙。但人们可以穿着它们做梦，就像穿着可爱的拖尾款式一样，脖子上有褶边，这是一种安慰。

‘Well, undress as quick as you can and go to bed. I’ll come back in a few minutes for the candle. I daren’t trust you to put it out yourself. You’d likely set the place on fire.’
“好吧，尽快脱掉衣服然后去睡觉。我几分钟后回来拿蜡烛。我不敢相信你会自己把它说出来。你可能会放火烧了这个地方。

When Marilla had gone Anne looked around her wistfully. The whitewashed walls were so painfully bare and staring that she thought they must ache over their own bareness. The floor was bare, too, except for a round braided mat in the middle such as Anne had never seen before. In one corner was the bed, a high, old-fashioned one, with four dark, lowturned posts. In the other corner was the aforesaid threecorner table adorned with a fat, red velvet pin-cushion hard enough to turn the point of the most adventurous pin. Above it hung a little six-by-eight mirror. Midway between table and bed was the window, with an icy white muslin frill over it, and opposite it was the wash-stand. The whole apartment was of a rigidity not to be described in words, but which sent a shiver to the very marrow of Anne’s bones. With a sob she hastily discarded her garments, put on the skimpy nightgown and sprang into bed where she burrowed face downward into the pillow and pulled the clothes over her head. When Marilla came up for the light various skimpy articles of raiment scattered most untidily over the floor and a certain tempestuous appearance of the bed were the only indications of any presence save her own.
玛丽拉走后，安妮若有所思地环顾四周。粉刷成白色的墙壁光秃秃的，令人痛苦，她想它们一定会因为自己的光秃秃而感到痛苦。地板也光秃秃的，除了中间有一个安妮以前从未见过的圆形编织垫。角落里放着一张床，一张高高的老式床，有四根深色的、低矮的柱子。另一个角落里是前面提到的三角桌，上面装饰着一个厚重的红色天鹅绒针垫，其硬度足以转动最冒险的针尖。上面挂着一面六乘八的小镜子。桌子和床之间是窗户，上面覆盖着冰冷的白色平纹细布褶边，对面是盥洗台。整个公寓僵硬得无法用言语来形容，但却让安妮感到骨髓里一阵颤抖。她抽泣着，连忙脱掉衣服，穿上那件暴露的睡衣，跳到床上，把脸埋进枕头里，把衣服拉到头上。当玛丽拉走到灯光处时，地板上乱七八糟地散落着各种破烂的衣服，床的样子也有些暴躁，这是除了她自己的床之外还有其他人存在的唯一迹象。

She deliberately picked up Anne’s clothes, placed them neatly on a prim yellow chair, and then, taking up the candle, went over to the bed.
她故意拿起安妮的衣服，整齐地放在一张古板的黄色椅子上，然后拿起蜡烛，走到了床边。

‘Good night,’ she said, a little awkwardly, but not unkindly.
“晚安，”她说，有点尴尬，但并不不友善。

Anne’s white face and big eyes appeared over the bedclothes with a startling suddenness.
安妮苍白的脸和大眼睛突然出现在床单上。

‘How can you call it a GOOD night when you know it must be the very worst night I’ve ever had?’ she said reproachfully.
“当你知道这一定是我度过的最糟糕的夜晚时，你怎么能称之为美好的夜晚呢？”她责备地说。

Then she dived down into invisibility again.
然后她再次潜入隐形状态。

Marilla went slowly down to the kitchen and proceeded to wash the supper dishes. Matthew was smoking—a sure sign of perturbation of mind. He seldom smoked, for Marilla set her face against it as a filthy habit; but at certain times and seasons he felt driven to it and them Marilla winked at the practice, realizing that a mere man must have some vent for his emotions.
玛丽拉慢慢地走到厨房，开始洗晚饭的盘子。马修在抽烟——这是精神错乱的明显表现。他很少抽烟，因为玛丽拉坚决反对抽烟，认为这是一种肮脏的习惯。但在某些时候和某些季节，他感到有动力这样做，而玛丽拉则对这种做法眨眼，意识到一个普通的男人必须有一些发泄自己情绪的机会。

‘Well, this is a pretty kettle of fish,’ she said wrathfully. ‘This is what comes of sending word instead of going ourselves. Richard Spencer’s folks have twisted that message somehow. One of us will have to drive over and see Mrs. Spencer tomorrow, that’s certain. This girl will have to be sent back to the asylum.’
“嗯，这真是一锅漂亮的鱼，”她愤怒地说。 “这就是发消息而不是亲自去的结果。理查德·斯宾塞的家人不知何故扭曲了这一信息。明天我们中的一个人必须开车去看斯宾塞夫人，这是肯定的。这个女孩必须被送回精神病院。”

‘Yes, I suppose so,’ said Matthew reluctantly.
“是的，我想是的，”马修不情愿地说。

‘You SUPPOSE so! Don’t you know it?’
‘你认为是这样！你不知道吗？

‘Well now, she’s a real nice little thing, Marilla. It’s kind of a pity to send her back when she’s so set on staying here.’
“现在，她真是个可爱的小东西，玛丽拉。当她如此执意留在这里时，将她送回去有点遗憾。

‘Matthew Cuthbert, you don’t mean to say you think we ought to keep her!’
“马修·库斯伯特，你并不是说你认为我们应该保留她！”

Marilla’s astonishment could not have been greater if Matthew had expressed a predilection for standing on his head.
如果马修表示喜欢倒立的话，马里拉会更加惊讶。

‘Well, now, no, I suppose not—not exactly,’ stammered Matthew, uncomfortably driven into a corner for his precise meaning. ‘I suppose—we could hardly be expected to keep her.’
“嗯，现在，不，我想不是——不完全是，”马修结结巴巴地说，因为他的确切意思，他不舒服地被逼到了角落里。 “我想——我们很难指望留住她。”

‘I should say not. What good would she be to us?’
‘我应该说不是。她对我们有什么好处？

‘We might be some good to her,’ said Matthew suddenly and unexpectedly.
“我们可能会对她有一些好处，”马修突然出乎意料地说。

‘Matthew Cuthbert, I believe that child has bewitched you! I can see as plain as plain that you want to keep her.’
“马修·库斯伯特，我相信那个孩子已经迷住了你！我很明显地看出你想留住她。

‘Well now, she’s a real interesting little thing,’ persisted Matthew. ‘You should have heard her talk coming from the station.’
“现在，她是一个非常有趣的小东西，”马修坚持说。 “你应该听听她从车站传来的谈话。”

‘Oh, she can talk fast enough. I saw that at once. It’s nothing in her favour, either. I don’t like children who have so much to say. I don’t want an orphan girl and if I did she isn’t the style I’d pick out. There’s something I don’t understand about her. No, she’s got to be despatched straight-way back to where she came from.’
‘哦，她说话够快的。我立刻就看到了。这也不利于她。我不喜欢有那么多话要说的孩子。我不想要一个孤女，如果我想要，她也不是我会选择的风格。我有些不明白她的事。不，她必须被直接送回她来的地方。

‘I could hire a French boy to help me,’ said Matthew, ‘and she’d be company for you.’
“我可以雇一个法国男孩来帮助我，”马修说，“她会陪着你。”

‘I’m not suffering for company,’ said Marilla shortly. ‘And I’m not going to keep her.’
“我不需要陪伴，”玛丽拉简短地说。 “而且我不会留着她。”

‘Well now, it’s just as you say, of course, Marilla,’ said Matthew rising and putting his pipe away. ‘I’m going to bed.’
“好吧，当然，就像你说的那样，玛丽拉，”马修站起来，把烟斗收起来。 '我去睡觉了。'

To bed went Matthew. And to bed, when she had put her dishes away, went Marilla, frowning most resolutely. And up-stairs, in the east gable, a lonely, heart-hungry, friendless child cried herself to sleep.
马修上床睡觉了。玛丽拉把盘子收好后，就上床睡觉了，眉头皱得很坚决。楼上的东山墙里，一个孤独、心饥渴、没有朋友的孩子哭着睡着了。

Chapter IV
第四章


Morning at Green Gables
绿山墙的早晨

It was broad daylight when Anne awoke and sat up in bed, staring confusedly at the window through which a flood of cheery sunshine was pouring and outside of which something white and feathery waved across glimpses of blue sky.
安妮醒来时，已经是大白天了，她从床上坐起来，困惑地盯着窗户，窗外洒满了明快的阳光，窗外有一些白色的、羽毛般的东西在蓝天上飘荡。

For a moment she could not remember where she was. First came a delightful thrill, as something very pleasant; then a horrible remembrance. This was Green Gables and they didn’t want her because she wasn’t a boy!
一时间她记不起自己身在何处。首先是一种令人愉快的兴奋，这是一件非常令人愉快的事情。然后是一个可怕的回忆。这是绿山墙，他们不想要她，因为她不是男孩！

But it was morning and, yes, it was a cherry-tree in full bloom outside of her window. With a bound she was out of bed and across the floor. She pushed up the sash—it went up stiffly and creakily, as if it hadn’t been opened for a long time, which was the case; and it stuck so tight that nothing was needed to hold it up.
但那是早晨，是的，她窗外有一棵盛开的樱花树。她一跃下床，穿过地板。她把窗带推了起来——它僵硬地、嘎吱作响地升起来，好像已经很长时间没有打开了，事实确实如此；而且它粘得很紧，不需要任何东西来支撑它。

Anne dropped on her knees and gazed out into the June morning, her eyes glistening with delight. Oh, wasn’t it beautiful? Wasn’t it a lovely place? Suppose she wasn’t really going to stay here! She would imagine she was. There was scope for imagination here.
安妮跪下，凝视着六月的早晨，她的眼睛闪烁着喜悦的光芒。哦，那不是很漂亮吗？那不是一个可爱的地方吗？假设她真的不打算留在这里！她会想象她是。这里有想象的空间。

A huge cherry-tree grew outside, so close that its boughs tapped against the house, and it was so thick-set with blossoms that hardly a leaf was to be seen. On both sides of the house was a big orchard, one of apple-trees and one of cherry-trees, also showered over with blossoms; and their grass was all sprinkled with dandelions. In the garden below were lilac-trees purple with flowers, and their dizzily sweet fragrance drifted up to the window on the morning wind.
外面长着一棵巨大的樱桃树，离得很近，树枝轻拍着房子，花朵茂密，几乎看不到一片叶子。房子的两边都是一个大果园，一棵苹果树，一棵樱桃树，也开满了鲜花。他们的草地上撒满了蒲公英。下面的花园里有紫丁香树，开着紫色的花，带着令人晕眩的甜香，随着晨风飘到窗外。

Below the garden a green field lush with clover sloped down to the hollow where the brook ran and where scores of white birches grew, upspringing airily out of an undergrowth suggestive of delightful possibilities in ferns and mosses and woodsy things generally. Beyond it was a hill, green and feathery with spruce and fir; there was a gap in it where the gray gable end of the little house she had seen from the other side of the Lake of Shining Waters was visible.
花园下面是一片长满三叶草的绿色田野，一直延伸到小溪流过的洼地，那里生长着几十棵白桦树，它们从灌木丛中轻快地生长出来，让人联想到蕨类植物、苔藓和木本植物的令人愉快的可能性。远处是一座小山，绿意盎然，长满了云杉和冷杉。那里有一个缺口，可以看到她在光辉湖的另一边看到的那座小房子的灰色山墙端。

Off to the left were the big barns and beyond them, away down over green, low-sloping fields, was a sparkling blue glimpse of sea.
左边是大谷仓，谷仓的远处，在绿色、低坡度的田野上，可以看到闪闪发光的蓝色大海。

Anne’s beauty-loving eyes lingered on it all, taking everything greedily in. She had looked on so many unlovely places in her life, poor child; but this was as lovely as anything she had ever dreamed.
安妮那双爱美的眼睛在这一切上徘徊，贪婪地吸收着一切。可怜的孩子，她在她的生活中看过太多不可爱的地方；她的眼睛里充满了爱意。但这就像她所梦想的一切一样可爱。

She knelt there, lost to everything but the loveliness around her, until she was startled by a hand on her shoulder. Marilla had come in unheard by the small dreamer.
她跪在那里，除了周围的可爱之外，什么都失去了，直到她被一只放在她肩膀上的手吓了一跳。玛丽拉进来了，小梦想家没有听到。

‘It’s time you were dressed,’ she said curtly.
“你该穿衣服了，”她简短地说。

Marilla really did not know how to talk to the child, and her uncomfortable ignorance made her crisp and curt when she did not mean to be.
玛丽拉真的不知道如何和孩子说话，而她的无知让她在无意的时候变得干脆而生硬。

Anne stood up and drew a long breath.
安妮站了起来，长长地吸了一口气。

‘Oh, isn’t it wonderful?’ she said, waving her hand comprehensively at the good world outside.
“哦，这不是很美妙吗？”她一边说，一边向外面的美好世界挥了挥手。

‘It’s a big tree,’ said Marilla, ‘and it blooms great, but the fruit don’t amount to much never—small and wormy.’
“这是一棵大树，”玛丽拉说，“花开得很好，但结的果子却并不多——又小又长虫。”

‘Oh, I don’t mean just the tree; of course it’s lovely—yes, it’s RADIANTLY lovely—it blooms as if it meant it—but I meant everything, the garden and the orchard and the brook and the woods, the whole big dear world. Don’t you feel as if you just loved the world on a morning like this? And I can hear the brook laughing all the way up here. Have you ever noticed what cheerful things brooks are? They’re always laughing. Even in winter-time I’ve heard them under the ice. I’m so glad there’s a brook near Green Gables. Perhaps you think it doesn’t make any difference to me when you’re not going to keep me, but it does. I shall always like to remember that there is a brook at Green Gables even if I never see it again. If there wasn’t a brook I’d be HAUNTED by the uncomfortable feeling that there ought to be one. I’m not in the depths of despair this morning. I never can be in the morning. Isn’t it a splendid thing that there are mornings? But I feel very sad. I’ve just been imagining that it was really me you wanted after all and that I was to stay here for ever and ever. It was a great comfort while it lasted. But the worst of imagining things is that the time comes when you have to stop and that hurts.’
“哦，我指的不仅仅是那棵树；我指的是那棵树。”当然它很可爱——是的，它非常可爱——它盛开，就好像它是这样的——但我指的是一切，花园、果园、小溪和树林，整个可爱的大世界。在这样的早晨，你不觉得自己爱上了这个世界吗？我能听到小溪一直在笑。你有没有注意到小溪是多么令人愉快的事情？他们总是在笑。即使在冬天，我也能在冰下听到它们的声音。我很高兴绿山墙附近有一条小溪。也许你认为，当你不打算留住我时，这对我来说没有任何区别，但事实确实如此。我会永远记住，绿山墙有一条小溪，即使我再也见不到它了。如果没有小溪，我就会被一种不舒服的感觉所困扰，觉得应该有一条小溪。今天早上我并没有陷入绝望的深渊。我永远不能在早上。有早晨不是一件美妙的事情吗？但我感到非常难过。我只是想象着你真正想要的就是我，而我将永远留在这里。当它持续的时候，这是一种极大的安慰。但最糟糕的想象是，当你不得不停下来的时候，那会很痛苦。”

‘You’d better get dressed and come down-stairs and never mind your imaginings,’ said Marilla as soon as she could get a word in edgewise. ‘Breakfast is waiting. Wash your face and comb your hair. Leave the window up and turn your bedclothes back over the foot of the bed. Be as smart as you can.’
“你最好穿好衣服下楼，别在意你的想象。”玛丽拉一能插话就说道。 ‘早餐正在等着呢。洗脸并梳理头发。把窗户打开，把床单翻回到床脚上。尽可能聪明。

Anne could evidently be smart so some purpose for she was down-stairs in ten minutes’ time, with her clothes neatly on, her hair brushed and braided, her face washed, and a comfortable consciousness pervading her soul that she had fulfilled all Marilla’s requirements. As a matter of fact, however, she had forgotten to turn back the bedclothes.
安妮显然很聪明，所以十分钟后她就下楼了，衣服穿得整整齐齐，头发梳理好，编成辫子，洗了脸，一种舒适的感觉弥漫在她的灵魂中，她已经满足了玛丽拉的所有要求。 。但事实上，她忘记把床单翻回去了。

‘I’m pretty hungry this morning,’ she announced as she slipped into the chair Marilla placed for her. ‘The world doesn’t seem such a howling wilderness as it did last night. I’m so glad it’s a sunshiny morning. But I like rainy mornings real well, too. All sorts of mornings are interesting, don’t you think? You don’t know what’s going to happen through the day, and there’s so much scope for imagination. But I’m glad it’s not rainy today because it’s easier to be cheerful and bear up under affliction on a sunshiny day. I feel that I have a good deal to bear up under. It’s all very well to read about sorrows and imagine yourself living through them heroically, but it’s not so nice when you really come to have them, is it?’
“今天早上我很饿，”她一边说，一边坐进玛丽拉为她安排的椅子。 “世界不再像昨晚那样是一片嚎叫的荒野。我很高兴这是一个阳光明媚的早晨。但我也非常喜欢下雨的早晨。各种各样的早晨都很有趣，你不觉得吗？你不知道这一天会发生什么，而且想象的空间很大。但我很高兴今天没有下雨，因为在阳光明媚的日子里更容易快乐和忍受痛苦。我觉得我有很多事情要承受。阅读有关悲伤的内容并想象自己英勇地度过悲伤，这一切都很好，但当你真正经历悲伤时，情况就不太好了，不是吗？

‘For pity’s sake hold your tongue,’ said Marilla. ‘You talk entirely too much for a little girl.’
“看在怜悯的份上，闭嘴吧，”玛丽拉说。 “对于一个小女孩来说，你说得太多了。”

Thereupon Anne held her tongue so obediently and thoroughly that her continued silence made Marilla rather nervous, as if in the presence of something not exactly natural. Matthew also held his tongue,—but this was natural,—so that the meal was a very silent one.
于是，安妮乖乖地、彻底地闭嘴了，她持续的沉默让玛丽拉相当紧张，仿佛遇到了一些不完全自然的东西。马修也保持沉默——但这很自然——所以这顿饭吃得非常安静。

As it progressed Anne became more and more abstracted, eating mechanically, with her big eyes fixed unswervingly and unseeingly on the sky outside the window. This made Marilla more nervous than ever; she had an uncomfortable feeling that while this odd child’s body might be there at the table her spirit was far away in some remote airy cloudland, borne aloft on the wings of imagination. Who would want such a child about the place?
随着时间的推移，安妮越来越心不在焉，机械地吃着东西，她的大眼睛一动不动地盯着窗外的天空。这让玛丽拉比以往更加紧张。她有一种不舒服的感觉，虽然这个奇怪的孩子的身体可能就在餐桌旁，但她的精神却在遥远的某个遥远的、通风的云国里，乘着想象的翅膀高高飞翔。谁会想要一个这样的孩子？

Yet Matthew wished to keep her, of all unaccountable things! Marilla felt that he wanted it just as much this morning as he had the night before, and that he would go on wanting it. That was Matthew’s way—take a whim into his head and cling to it with the most amazing silent persistency—a persistency ten times more potent and effectual in its very silence than if he had talked it out.
然而马修却想留下她，这是最不负责任的事情！马瑞拉觉得他今天早上和前一天晚上一样想要它，而且他会继续想要它。这就是马修的方式——脑子里突发奇想，然后以最惊人的沉默坚持不懈——这种坚持在沉默中比他把它说出来要强大和有效十倍。

When the meal was ended Anne came out of her reverie and offered to wash the dishes.
吃完饭后，安妮从沉思中回过神来，主动提出要洗碗。

‘Can you wash dishes right?’ asked Marilla distrustfully.
“你会洗碗吗？”玛丽拉怀疑地问。

‘Pretty well. I’m better at looking after children, though. I’ve had so much experience at that. It’s such a pity you haven’t any here for me to look after.’
'很不错。不过，我更擅长照顾孩子。我在这方面有很多经验。真可惜，你这里没有人可以让我照顾。”

‘I don’t feel as if I wanted any more children to look after than I’ve got at present. YOU’RE problem enough in all conscience. What’s to be done with you I don’t know. Matthew is a most ridiculous man.’
“我觉得我不需要照顾比现在更多的孩子。凭良心来说，你已经够麻烦了。我不知道该对你做什么。马修是一个最可笑的人。

‘I think he’s lovely,’ said Anne reproachfully. ‘He is so very sympathetic. He didn’t mind how much I talked—he seemed to like it. I felt that he was a kindred spirit as soon as ever I saw him.’
“我觉得他很可爱。”安妮责备地说。 ‘他非常富有同情心。他并不介意我说了多少——他似乎很喜欢。我一看到他就觉得他是志同道合的人。

‘You’re both queer enough, if that’s what you mean by kindred spirits,’ said Marilla with a sniff. ‘Yes, you may wash the dishes. Take plenty of hot water, and be sure you dry them well. I’ve got enough to attend to this morning for I’ll have to drive over to White Sands in the afternoon and see Mrs. Spencer. You’ll come with me and we’ll settle what’s to be done with you. After you’ve finished the dishes go up-stairs and make your bed.’
“你们俩都够奇怪的了，如果这就是你们所说的志趣相投的话。”玛丽拉嗤之以鼻地说。 “是的，你可以洗碗。准备充足的热水，并确保将它们充分擦干。今天早上我有足够的事情要做，因为下午我必须开车去白沙见斯宾塞太太。你跟我走，我们会决定如何处置你。洗完碗后，上楼去整理床铺。”

Anne washed the dishes deftly enough, as Marilla who kept a sharp eye on the process, discerned. Later on she made her bed less successfully, for she had never learned the art of wrestling with a feather tick. But is was done somehow and smoothed down; and then Marilla, to get rid of her, told her she might go out-of-doors and amuse herself until dinner time.
安妮洗碗的动作非常熟练，玛丽拉敏锐地观察着整个过程，她发现了这一点。后来她整理床铺就不那么成功了，因为她从来没有学过与羽毛蜱摔跤的艺术。但不知怎的，它被完成并平滑了；然后玛丽拉为了摆脱她，告诉她可以到户外去娱乐一下，直到晚饭时间。

Anne flew to the door, face alight, eyes glowing. On the very threshold she stopped short, wheeled about, came back and sat down by the table, light and glow as effectually blotted out as if some one had clapped an extinguisher on her.
安妮飞奔到门口，脸上容光焕发，眼睛闪闪发光。就在门口，她突然停了下来，转了个身，回来坐在桌边，光线和光芒实际上被遮蔽了，就像有人把灭火器拍到了她身上一样。

‘What’s the matter now?’ demanded Marilla.
“现在怎么了？”玛丽拉问道。

‘I don’t dare go out,’ said Anne, in the tone of a martyr relinquishing all earthly joys. ‘If I can’t stay here there is no use in my loving Green Gables. And if I go out there and get acquainted with all those trees and flowers and the orchard and the brook I’ll not be able to help loving it. It’s hard enough now, so I won’t make it any harder. I want to go out so much—everything seems to be calling to me, ‘Anne, Anne, come out to us. Anne, Anne, we want a playmate’—but it’s better not. There is no use in loving things if you have to be torn from them, is there? And it’s so hard to keep from loving things, isn’t it? That was why I was so glad when I thought I was going to live here. I thought I’d have so many things to love and nothing to hinder me. But that brief dream is over. I am resigned to my fate now, so I don’t think I’ll go out for fear I’ll get unresigned again. What is the name of that geranium on the window-sill, please?’
“我不敢出去。”安妮的语气就像一位放弃了尘世一切欢乐的烈士。 “如果我不能留在这里，我心爱的绿山墙就没有意义了。如果我出去熟悉那些树木、花朵、果园和小溪，我将情不自禁地爱上它。现在已经够难了，所以我不会再难了。我非常想出去——一切似乎都在呼唤我，‘安妮，安妮，到我们这里来吧。安妮，安妮，我们想要一个玩伴”——但最好不要。如果你不得不离开某些事物，那么再爱也没有用，不是吗？很难不去热爱事物，不是吗？这就是为什么当我想到我要住在这里时我如此高兴。我以为我有很多东西可以热爱，没有什么可以阻碍我。但那个短暂的梦想结束了。我现在已经听天由命了，所以我想我不会出去了，因为我担心我会再次不听天由命。请问窗台上的天竺葵叫什么名字？

‘That’s the apple-scented geranium.’
“那是苹果香味的天竺葵。”

‘Oh, I don’t mean that sort of a name. I mean just a name you gave it yourself. Didn’t you give it a name? May I give it one then? May I call it—let me see—Bonny would do—may I call it Bonny while I’m here? Oh, do let me!’
“哦，我不是指那种名字。我的意思只是你自己给它起的名字。你没有给它起名字吗？那我可以给它一个吗？我可以叫它——让我想想——邦尼可以吗——我可以在我在这里的时候叫它邦尼吗？哦，让我来吧！

‘Goodness, I don’t care. But where on earth is the sense of naming a geranium?’
‘天啊，我不在乎。但命名天竺葵到底有什么意义呢？

‘Oh, I like things to have handles even if they are only geraniums. It makes them seem more like people. How do you know but that it hurts a geranium’s feelings just to be called a geranium and nothing else? You wouldn’t like to be called nothing but a woman all the time. Yes, I shall call it Bonny. I named that cherry-tree outside my bedroom window this morning. I called it Snow Queen because it was so white. Of course, it won’t always be in blossom, but one can imagine that it is, can’t one?’
“哦，我喜欢有把手的东西，即使它们只是天竺葵。这让他们看起来更像人。你怎么知道仅仅被称为天竺葵而不是别的就伤害了天竺葵的感情？你不想一直被称为女人。是的，我会叫它邦尼。今天早上我给卧室窗外的那棵樱桃树起了名字。我称它为雪女王，因为它太白了。当然，它不会永远盛开，但人们可以想象它是这样，不是吗？

‘I never in all my life say or heard anything to equal her,’ muttered Marilla, beating a retreat down to the cellar after potatoes. ‘She is kind of interesting as Matthew says. I can feel already that I’m wondering what on earth she’ll say next. She’ll be casting a spell over me, too. She’s cast it over Matthew. That look he gave me when he went out said everything he said or hinted last night over again. I wish he was like other men and would talk things out. A body could answer back then and argue him into reason. But what’s to be done with a man who just LOOKS?’
“我这辈子从来没有说过或听到过任何能与她相提并论的事情，”马里拉嘟哝道，吃完土豆后就退回地窖。 “正如马修所说，她有点有趣。我已经感觉到我在想她接下来会说什么。她也会对我施展魔法。她把它扔到了马修身上。他出去时给我的眼神再次说明了他昨晚所说或暗示的一切。我希望他能像其他人一样，把事情说出来。那时有一个身体可以回答并说服他讲道理。但对于一个只看外表的人该怎么办呢？

Anne had relapsed into reverie, with her chin in her hands and her eyes on the sky, when Marilla returned from her cellar pilgrimage. There Marilla left her until the early dinner was on the table.
当玛丽拉从地窖朝圣回来时，安妮双手托着下巴，眼睛望着天空，再次陷入沉思。玛丽拉离开了她，直到早饭上桌。

‘I suppose I can have the mare and buggy this afternoon, Matthew?’ said Marilla.
“我想今天下午我可以得到母马和马车，马修？”玛丽拉说。

Matthew nodded and looked wistfully at Anne. Marilla intercepted the look and said grimly:
马修点点头，若有所思地看着安妮。玛丽拉拦截了目光，阴沉地说道：

‘I’m going to drive over to White Sands and settle this thing. I’ll take Anne with me and Mrs. Spencer will probably make arrangements to send her back to Nova Scotia at once. I’ll set your tea out for you and I’ll be home in time to milk the cows.’
“我要开车去白沙解决这件事。我会带安妮一起去，斯宾塞夫人可能会立即安排将她送回新斯科舍省。我会为你准备茶，然后我会及时回家挤牛奶。

Still Matthew said nothing and Marilla had a sense of having wasted words and breath. There is nothing more aggravating than a man who won’t talk back—unless it is a woman who won’t.
马修仍然一言不发，玛丽拉有一种浪费言语和呼吸的感觉。没有什么比男人不顶嘴更让人恼火的了——除非女人不顶嘴。

Matthew hitched the sorrel into the buggy in due time and Marilla and Anne set off. Matthew opened the yard gate for them and as they drove slowly through, he said, to nobody in particular as it seemed:
马修及时把酢浆草套上马车，玛丽拉和安妮出发了。马修为他们打开院门，当他们缓缓驶过时，他对任何人说道：

‘Little Jerry Buote from the Creek was here this morning, and I told him I guessed I’d hire him for the summer.’
“来自克里克的小杰里·博特今天早上来了，我告诉他我想我会雇用他过夏天。”

Marilla made no reply, but she hit the unlucky sorrel such a vicious clip with the whip that the fat mare, unused to such treatment, whizzed indignantly down the lane at an alarming pace. Marilla looked back once as the buggy bounced along and saw that aggravating Matthew leaning over the gate, looking wistfully after them.
玛丽拉没有回答，但她用鞭子猛烈地抽打那匹不幸的栗色马，致使那匹不习惯这种待遇的肥母马愤怒地以惊人的速度沿着小路呼啸而过。当马车颠簸前行时，玛丽拉回头看了一眼，看到恼怒的马修靠在大门上，若有所思地看着他们。

Chapter V
第五章


Anne’s History
安妮的历史

‘Do you know,’ said Anne confidentially, ‘I’ve made up my mind to enjoy this drive. It’s been my experience that you can nearly always enjoy things if you make up your mind firmly that you will. Of course, you must make it up FIRMLY. I am not going to think about going back to the asylum while we’re having our drive. I’m just going to think about the drive. Oh, look, there’s one little early wild rose out! Isn’t it lovely? Don’t you think it must be glad to be a rose? Wouldn’t it be nice if roses could talk? I’m sure they could tell us such lovely things. And isn’t pink the most bewitching color in the world? I love it, but I can’t wear it. Redheaded people can’t wear pink, not even in imagination. Did you ever know of anybody whose hair was red when she was young, but got to be another color when she grew up?’
“你知道吗，”安妮偷偷地说，“我已经下定决心要享受这次驾车之旅了。”根据我的经验，如果你下定决心，你几乎总是可以享受事物。当然，你必须坚定地弥补。当我们开车的时候，我不会考虑回到精神病院。我只想考虑一下驱动器。哦，看，一朵早开的小野玫瑰已经长出来了！是不是很可爱？你不觉得成为一朵玫瑰一定很高兴吗？如果玫瑰会说话，那不是很好吗？我相信他们可以告诉我们如此可爱的事情。粉色难道不是世界上最迷人的颜色吗？我喜欢它，但我不能穿它。红头发的人不能穿粉色，即使在想象中也是如此。你知道有谁年轻时头发是红色的，但长大后却变成了另一种颜色吗？

‘No, I don’t know as I ever did,’ said Marilla mercilessly, ‘and I shouldn’t think it likely to happen in your case either.’
“不，我不知道，就像我以前那样，”玛丽拉无情地说，“而且我认为你的情况也不可能发生这种情况。”

Anne sighed.
安妮叹了口气。

‘Well, that is another hope gone. ‘My life is a perfect graveyard of buried hopes.’ That’s a sentence I read in a book once, and I say it over to comfort myself whenever I’m disappointed in anything.’
‘嗯，这又是一个希望破灭了。 “我的生活是埋藏着希望的完美坟墓。”这是我曾经在一本书上读过的一句话，每当我对任何事情感到失望时，我都会说这句话来安慰自己。

‘I don’t see where the comforting comes in myself,’ said Marilla.
“我不明白我自己有什么安慰的地方，”马里拉说。

‘Why, because it sounds so nice and romantic, just as if I were a heroine in a book, you know. I am so fond of romantic things, and a graveyard full of buried hopes is about as romantic a thing as one can imagine isn’t it? I’m rather glad I have one. Are we going across the Lake of Shining Waters today?’
“为什么，因为这听起来如此美好和浪漫，就像我是书中的女主角一样，你知道。我非常喜欢浪漫的事物，而埋藏着希望的墓地就是人们能想象到的最浪漫的事情，不是吗？我很高兴我有一个。我们今天要穿越闪亮水域湖吗？

‘We’re not going over Barry’s pond, if that’s what you mean by your Lake of Shining Waters. We’re going by the shore road.’
“我们不会越过巴里的池塘，如果这就是你所说的闪亮水域的意思的话。”我们要沿着海岸路走。

‘Shore road sounds nice,’ said Anne dreamily. ‘Is it as nice as it sounds? Just when you said ‘shore road’ I saw it in a picture in my mind, as quick as that! And White Sands is a pretty name, too; but I don’t like it as well as Avonlea. Avonlea is a lovely name. It just sounds like music. How far is it to White Sands?’
“海岸路听起来不错，”安妮若有所思地说。 ‘真像听起来那么美好吗？就在你说“岸路”的时候，我脑海里就出现了画面，就这么快！白沙也是一个漂亮的名字；但我不像埃文利那样喜欢它。埃文利是一个可爱的名字。听起来就像音乐。到白沙有多远？

‘It’s five miles; and as you’re evidently bent on talking you might as well talk to some purpose by telling me what you know about yourself.’
“有五英里；既然你显然一心想说话，那么你不妨通过告诉我你对自己的了解来达到某种目的。

‘Oh, what I KNOW about myself isn’t really worth telling,’ said Anne eagerly. ‘If you’ll only let me tell you what I IMAGINE about myself you’ll think it ever so much more interesting.’
“哦，我所知道的关于我自己的事情其实并不值得讲述，”安妮急切地说。 “如果你让我告诉你我对自己的想象，你会觉得这更有趣。”

‘No, I don’t want any of your imaginings. Just you stick to bald facts. Begin at the beginning. Where were you born and how old are you?’
“不，我不需要你的任何幻想。只要你坚持赤裸裸的事实。从头开始。你在哪里出生，多大了？

‘I was eleven last March,’ said Anne, resigning herself to bald facts with a little sigh. ‘And I was born in Bolingbroke, Nova Scotia. My father’s name was Walter Shirley, and he was a teacher in the Bolingbroke High School. My mother’s name was Bertha Shirley. Aren’t Walter and Bertha lovely names? I’m so glad my parents had nice names. It would be a real disgrace to have a father named—well, say Jedediah, wouldn’t it?’
“去年三月我十一岁了，”安妮轻轻叹了口气，接受了赤裸裸的事实。 “我出生在新斯科舍省的博林布鲁克。我父亲的名字叫沃尔特·雪利，他是博林布鲁克高中的一名老师。我母亲的名字是伯莎·雪莉。沃尔特和伯莎不是很可爱的名字吗？我很高兴我的父母有好听的名字。如果有一个父亲被命名，那真是一种耻辱——好吧，比如说杰迪代亚，不是吗？

‘I guess it doesn’t matter what a person’s name is as long as he behaves himself,’ said Marilla, feeling herself called upon to inculcate a good and useful moral.
“我想一个人叫什么并不重要，只要他表现得好就行，”玛丽拉说，她觉得自己有责任灌输良好而有用的道德。

‘Well, I don’t know.’ Anne looked thoughtful. ‘I read in a book once that a rose by any other name would smell as sweet, but I’ve never been able to believe it. I don’t believe a rose WOULD be as nice if it was called a thistle or a skunk cabbage. I suppose my father could have been a good man even if he had been called Jedediah; but I’m sure it would have been a cross. Well, my mother was a teacher in the High school, too, but when she married father she gave up teaching, of course. A husband was enough responsibility. Mrs. Thomas said that they were a pair of babies and as poor as church mice. They went to live in a weeny-teeny little yellow house in Bolingbroke. I’ve never seen that house, but I’ve imagined it thousands of times. I think it must have had honeysuckle over the parlor window and lilacs in the front yard and lilies of the valley just inside the gate. Yes, and muslin curtains in all the windows. Muslin curtains give a house such an air. I was born in that house. Mrs. Thomas said I was the homeliest baby she ever saw, I was so scrawny and tiny and nothing but eyes, but that mother thought I was perfectly beautiful. I should think a mother would be a better judge than a poor woman who came in to scrub, wouldn’t you? I’m glad she was satisfied with me anyhow, I would feel so sad if I thought I was a disappointment to her—because she didn’t live very long after that, you see. She died of fever when I was just three months old. I do wish she’d lived long enough for me to remember calling her mother. I think it would be so sweet to say ‘mother,’ don’t you? And father died four days afterwards from fever too. That left me an orphan and folks were at their wits’ end, so Mrs. Thomas said, what to do with me. You see, nobody wanted me even then. It seems to be my fate. Father and mother had both come from places far away and it was well known they hadn’t any relatives living. Finally Mrs. Thomas said she’d take me, though she was poor and had a drunken husband. She brought me up by hand. Do you know if there is anything in being brought up by hand that ought to make people who are brought up that way better than other people? Because whenever I was naughty Mrs. Thomas would ask me how I could be such a bad girl when she had brought me up by hand— reproachful-like.
“嗯，我不知道。”安妮看上去若有所思。 “我曾经在一本书上读到，任何其他名字的玫瑰闻起来都会一样香甜，但我一直不敢相信。我不认为玫瑰如果被称为蓟或臭菘，就不会那么好。我想，即使我的父亲被称为杰迪代亚，他也可能是一个好人。但我确信那会是一个十字架。嗯，我的母亲也是一名高中老师，但当她嫁给父亲后，她当然放弃了教学。有一个丈夫就足够有责任了。托马斯太太说，他们是一对婴儿，而且像教堂里的老鼠一样贫穷。他们搬到了博林布鲁克的一栋很小的黄色房子里居住。我从未见过那所房子，但我已经想象过它数千次。我想客厅窗户上一定有金银花，前院有丁香花，大门内一定有铃兰。是的，所有窗户上都有平纹细布窗帘。平纹细布窗帘给房子带来这样的氛围。我出生在那个房子里。托马斯太太说我是她见过的最丑陋的婴儿，我又瘦又小，除了眼睛什么都没有，但那位母亲却认为我非常漂亮。我认为母亲比一个进来擦洗的可怜女人更能做出判断，不是吗？无论如何，我很高兴她对我感到满意，如果我认为我让她失望了，我会感到非常难过——因为在那之后她并没有活多久，你看。我三个月大时，她就因发烧去世了。我真希望她能活得足够长，让我记得叫她妈妈。我觉得说‘妈妈’会很甜蜜，不是吗？四天后，父亲也因发烧去世。这让我成了孤儿，人们也束手无策，所以托马斯夫人说，我该怎么办。你看，即使那时也没有人想要我。 这似乎就是我的命运。父亲和母亲都来自很远的地方，众所周知，他们没有亲戚在世。最后，托马斯夫人说她会带我去，尽管她很穷，而且有一个酗酒的丈夫。她亲手把我抚养长大。你知道亲手抚养长大的人是否会比其他人更好吗？因为每当我调皮的时候，托马斯太太就会问我，既然她亲手把我养大，我怎么会变成这样一个坏女孩——责备般的。

‘Mr. and Mrs. Thomas moved away from Bolingbroke to Marysville, and I lived with them until I was eight years old. I helped look after the Thomas children—there were four of them younger than me—and I can tell you they took a lot of looking after. Then Mr. Thomas was killed falling under a train and his mother offered to take Mrs. Thomas and the children, but she didn’t want me. Mrs. Thomas was at HER wits’ end, so she said, what to do with me. Then Mrs. Hammond from up the river came down and said she’d take me, seeing I was handy with children, and I went up the river to live with her in a little clearing among the stumps. It was a very lonesome place. I’m sure I could never have lived there if I hadn’t had an imagination. Mr. Hammond worked a little sawmill up there, and Mrs. Hammond had eight children. She had twins three times. I like babies in moderation, but twins three times in succession is TOO MUCH. I told Mrs. Hammond so firmly, when the last pair came. I used to get so dreadfully tired carrying them about.
'先生。托马斯夫人从博林布鲁克搬到了马里斯维尔，我和他们住在一起直到我八岁。我帮忙照顾托马斯的孩子——他们中有四个比我小——我可以告诉你，他们花了很多时间照顾。然后托马斯先生在火车下摔死了，他的母亲提出要带走托马斯夫人和孩子们，但她不想要我。托马斯太太束手无策，于是她说，我该怎么办。然后哈蒙德太太从河上游下来，说她会带我去，因为我很擅长照顾孩子，我就到河上游去和她一起住在树桩间的一小块空地里。那是一个非常孤独的地方。我确信，如果没有想象力，我永远不可能住在那里。哈蒙德先生在那里经营一家小锯木厂，哈蒙德夫人有八个孩子。她生过三次双胞胎。我喜欢适度的婴儿，但连续三胎双胞胎就太多了。当最后一对到来时，我如此坚定地告诉哈蒙德太太。我过去常常带着它们走来走去，实在太累了。

‘I lived up river with Mrs. Hammond over two years, and then Mr. Hammond died and Mrs. Hammond broke up housekeeping. She divided her children among her relatives and went to the States. I had to go to the asylum at Hopeton, because nobody would take me. They didn’t want me at the asylum, either; they said they were overcrowded as it was. But they had to take me and I was there four months until Mrs. Spencer came.’
“我和哈蒙德太太在河上游住了两年多，然后哈蒙德先生去世了，哈蒙德太太也不再做家务了。她把孩子们分给她的亲戚，然后去了美国。我不得不去霍普顿的精神病院，因为没有人愿意收留我。他们也不想让我呆在疯人院里。他们说他们现在已经人满为患了。但他们不得不带走我，我在那里呆了四个月，直到斯宾塞夫人来。

Anne finished up with another sigh, of relief this time. Evidently she did not like talking about her experiences in a world that had not wanted her.
说完，安妮又叹了口气，这一次她松了口气。显然，她不喜欢谈论她在一个不需要她的世界中的经历。

‘Did you ever go to school?’ demanded Marilla, turning the sorrel mare down the shore road.
“你上过学吗？”玛丽拉一边问道，一边把栗色母马赶到了海岸路上。

‘Not a great deal. I went a little the last year I stayed with Mrs. Thomas. When I went up river we were so far from a school that I couldn’t walk it in winter and there was a vacation in summer, so I could only go in the spring and fall. But of course I went while I was at the asylum. I can read pretty well and I know ever so many pieces of poetry off by heart—‘The Battle of Hohenlinden’ and ‘Edinburgh after Flodden,’ and ‘Bingen of the Rhine,’ and lost of the ‘Lady of the Lake’ and most of ‘The Seasons’ by James Thompson. Don’t you just love poetry that gives you a crinkly feeling up and down your back? There is a piece in the Fifth Reader—‘The Downfall of Poland’—that is just full of thrills. Of course, I wasn’t in the Fifth Reader—I was only in the Fourth—but the big girls used to lend me theirs to read.’
“没什么。”去年我和托马斯夫人住在一起时，我去过一点。我上河的时候离学校很远，冬天走不了，夏天有假期，只能春秋两季去。当然，我在精神病院的时候就去了。我的阅读能力很好，我能背诵很多诗篇——《霍恩林登之战》、《弗洛登之后的爱丁堡》、《莱茵河的宾根》、《湖中女士》的失落和詹姆斯·汤普森的《四季》的大部分内容。难道你不喜欢那些让你脊背起皱的诗歌吗？ 《第五读本》中有一篇文章——《波兰的没落》——充满了惊心动魄。当然，我不在第五读本中——我只在第四读本中——但大女孩们过去常把她们的读本借给我读。

‘Were those women—Mrs. Thomas and Mrs. Hammond—good to you?’ asked Marilla, looking at Anne out of the corner of her eye.
“那些女人是吗？” “托马斯和哈蒙德太太——对你们好吗？”玛丽拉用余光看着安妮问道。

‘O-o-o-h,’ faltered Anne. Her sensitive little face suddenly flushed scarlet and embarrassment sat on her brow. ‘Oh, they MEANT to be—I know they meant to be just as good and kind as possible. And when people mean to be good to you, you don’t mind very much when they’re not quite—always. They had a good deal to worry them, you know. It’s very trying to have a drunken husband, you see; and it must be very trying to have twins three times in succession, don’t you think? But I feel sure they meant to be good to me.’
“噢——噢——噢，”安妮结结巴巴地说。她敏感的小脸顿时涨得通红，眉宇间满是尴尬。 “哦，他们的本意是——我知道他们本意是尽可能善良和善良。当人们本意对你好时，即使他们不那么好，你也不会太介意——总是如此。你知道，他们有很多事情让他们担心。你看，有一个喝醉酒的丈夫是很痛苦的。而且连续生三对双胞胎一定很辛苦吧？但我确信他们是想对我好。”

Marilla asked no more questions. Anne gave herself up to a silent rapture over the shore road and Marilla guided the sorrel abstractedly while she pondered deeply. Pity was suddenly stirring in her heart for the child. What a starved, unloved life she had had—a life of drudgery and poverty and neglect; for Marilla was shrewd enough to read between the lines of Anne’s history and divine the truth. No wonder she had been so delighted at the prospect of a real home. It was a pity she had to be sent back. What if she, Marilla, should indulge Matthew’s unaccountable whim and let her stay? He was set on it; and the child seemed a nice, teachable little thing.
玛丽拉没有再问什么。安妮默默地陶醉在海岸公路上，玛丽拉一边心不在焉地引导着栗色树，一边陷入沉思。她的心中突然升起了对孩子的怜悯。她过着多么饥饿、不被爱的生活——苦差事、贫穷和被忽视的生活；因为玛丽拉足够精明，能够从安妮的历史字里行间看出真相。难怪她对拥有一个真正的家感到如此高兴。可惜她不得不被送回去。如果她，玛丽拉，纵容马修莫名其妙的突发奇想，让她留下来怎么办？他已经下定决心要这么做了。这孩子看上去是个可爱、好学的小东西。

‘She’s got too much to say,’ thought Marilla, ‘but she might be trained out of that. And there’s nothing rude or slangy in what she does say. She’s ladylike. It’s likely her people were nice folks.’
“她有太多话要说，”马里拉想，“但她可能会接受训练，不再说这些。”她所说的话中没有任何粗鲁或俚语。她很淑女。她的人很可能都是好人。

The shore road was ‘woodsy and wild and lonesome.’ On the right hand, scrub firs, their spirits quite unbroken by long years of tussle with the gulf winds, grew thickly. On the left were the steep red sandstone cliffs, so near the track in places that a mare of less steadiness than the sorrel might have tried the nerves of the people behind her. Down at the base of the cliffs were heaps of surf-worn rocks or little sandy coves inlaid with pebbles as with ocean jewels; beyond lay the sea, shimmering and blue, and over it soared the gulls, their pinions flashing silvery in the sunlight.
岸边的道路“树木茂盛，荒野而孤独”。右手边，灌木丛冷杉长得茂密，长年与海湾风搏斗，它们的精神丝毫没有被削弱。左边是陡峭的红砂岩悬崖，有些地方离赛道很近，一匹比栗色稳定性差的母马可能会考验她后面的人的神经。悬崖底部有成堆的被海浪冲刷过的岩石，或者是镶嵌着海洋宝石般鹅卵石的小沙湾。远处是蔚蓝的大海，波光粼粼，海鸥在海面上翱翔，它们的翅膀在阳光下闪烁着银色的光芒。

‘Isn’t the sea wonderful?’ said Anne, rousing from a long, wide-eyed silence. ‘Once, when I lived in Marysville, Mr. Thomas hired an express wagon and took us all to spend the day at the shore ten miles away. I enjoyed every moment of that day, even if I had to look after the children all the time. I lived it over in happy dreams for years. But this shore is nicer than the Marysville shore. Aren’t those gulls splendid? Would you like to be a gull? I think I would—that is, if I couldn’t be a human girl. Don’t you think it would be nice to wake up at sunrise and swoop down over the water and away out over that lovely blue all day; and then at night to fly back to one’s nest? Oh, I can just imagine myself doing it. What big house is that just ahead, please?’
“大海不是很美妙吗？”安妮从长时间的睁大眼睛的沉默中醒来，问道。 “有一次，当我住在马里斯维尔时，托马斯先生租了一辆特快马车，带我们大家去十英里外的海岸度过了一天。我很享受那天的每一刻，即使我必须一直照顾孩子们。多年来我一直在幸福的梦中经历过这一切。但这个海岸比马里斯维尔海岸更好。那些海鸥不是很漂亮吗？你想成为一只海鸥吗？我想我会——也就是说，如果我不能成为一个人类女孩的话。你不觉得在日出时醒来，俯冲在水面上，一整天都在那美丽的蓝色上飞翔是件好事吗？然后晚上飞回自己的巢穴？哦，我可以想象自己这样做。请问前面是什么大房子？

‘That’s the White Sands Hotel. Mr. Kirke runs it, but the season hasn’t begun yet. There are heaps of Americans come there for the summer. They think this shore is just about right.’
“那是白沙酒店。”柯克先生负责运营，但赛季尚未开始。有很多美国人来这里避暑。他们认为这个海岸是正确的。

‘I was afraid it might be Mrs. Spencer’s place,’ said Anne mournfully. ‘I don’t want to get there. Somehow, it will seem like the end of everything.’
“我担心这可能是斯宾塞夫人的住所，”安妮悲伤地说。 ‘我不想到那里。不知何故，这似乎是一切的终结。

Chapter VI
第六章


Marilla Makes Up Her Mind
玛丽拉下定决心

Get there they did, however, in due season. Mrs. Spencer lived in a big yellow house at White Sands Cove, and she came to the door with surprise and welcome mingled on her benevolent face.
然而，他们在适当的季节到达了那里。斯宾塞夫人住在白沙湾的一栋黄色大房子里，她来到门口时，慈祥的脸上夹杂着惊讶和欢迎。

‘Dear, dear,’ she exclaimed, ‘you’re the last folks I was looking for today, but I’m real glad to see you. You’ll put your horse in? And how are you, Anne?’
“亲爱的，亲爱的，”她喊道，“你是我今天最后找的人，但我很高兴见到你。”你会把你的马放进去吗？你好吗，安妮？

‘I’m as well as can be expected, thank you,’ said Anne smilelessly. A blight seemed to have descended on her.
“我一切都很好，谢谢你。”安妮微笑着说道。一场灾难似乎降临在她身上。

‘I suppose we’ll stay a little while to rest the mare,’ said Marilla, ‘but I promised Matthew I’d be home early. The fact is, Mrs. Spencer, there’s been a queer mistake somewhere, and I’ve come over to see where it is. We send word, Matthew and I, for you to bring us a boy from the asylum. We told your brother Robert to tell you we wanted a boy ten or eleven years old.’
“我想我们会留下来休息一会儿，让母马休息一下，”马里拉说，“但我答应过马修我会早点回家。”事实是，斯宾塞夫人，某个地方出现了一个奇怪的错误，我过来看看它在哪里。马修和我，我们派人传话，让你从精神病院带一个男孩过来。我们让你哥哥罗伯特告诉你我们想要一个十岁或十一岁的男孩。

‘Marilla Cuthbert, you don’t say so!’ said Mrs. Spencer in distress. ‘Why, Robert sent word down by his daughter Nancy and she said you wanted a girl—didn’t she Flora Jane?’ appealing to her daughter who had come out to the steps.
“玛丽拉·库斯伯特，你别这么说！”斯宾塞夫人苦恼地说。 “为什么，罗伯特通过他的女儿南希传话，她说你想要一个女孩——她不是弗洛拉·简吗？”对走到台阶上的女儿说道。

‘She certainly did, Miss Cuthbert,’ corroborated Flora Jane earnestly.
“她确实做到了，库斯伯特小姐，”弗洛拉·简认真地证实。

I’m dreadful sorry,’ said Mrs. Spencer. ‘It’s too bad; but it certainly wasn’t my fault, you see, Miss Cuthbert. I did the best I could and I thought I was following your instructions. Nancy is a terrible flighty thing. I’ve often had to scold her well for her heedlessness.’
“我非常抱歉，”斯宾塞夫人说道。 '这太糟糕了;但这肯定不是我的错，你看，卡斯伯特小姐。我已尽力而为，并且我认为我正在遵循您的指示。南希是一个可怕的轻浮的人。我常常不得不责备她的粗心大意。

‘It was our own fault,’ said Marilla resignedly. ‘We should have come to you ourselves and not left an important message to be passed along by word of mouth in that fashion. Anyhow, the mistake has been made and the only thing to do is to set it right. Can we send the child back to the asylum? I suppose they’ll take her back, won’t they?’
“这是我们自己的错，”玛丽拉无奈地说。 ‘我们应该亲自来找你，而不是留下重要的信息，然后以这种方式通过口口相传。无论如何，错误已经犯了，唯一能做的就是改正。我们可以把孩子送回收容所吗？我想他们会把她带回来，不是吗？

‘I suppose so,’ said Mrs. Spencer thoughtfully, ‘but I don’t think it will be necessary to send her back. Mrs. Peter Blewett was up here yesterday, and she was saying to me how much she wished she’d sent by me for a little girl to help her. Mrs. Peter has a large family, you know, and she finds it hard to get help. Anne will be the very girl for you. I call it positively providential.’
“我想是这样，”斯宾塞夫人若有所思地说，“但我认为没有必要把她送回去。”彼得·布莱威特夫人昨天来过这里，她对我说，她多么希望我派一个小女孩来帮助她。你知道，彼得夫人有一个大家庭，她发现很难获得帮助。安妮将是最适合你的女孩。我称之为积极的天意。

Marilla did not look as if she thought Providence had much to do with the matter. Here was an unexpectedly good chance to get this unwelcome orphan off her hands, and she did not even feel grateful for it.
玛丽拉看起来似乎并不认为普罗维登斯与这件事有多大关系。这是一个意想不到的好机会，可以让这个不受欢迎的孤儿摆脱她的手，而她甚至没有对此感到感激。

She knew Mrs. Peter Blewett only by sight as a small, shrewish-faced woman without an ounce of superfluous flesh on her bones. But she had heard of her. ‘A terrible worker and driver,’ Mrs. Peter was said to be; and discharged servant girls told fearsome tales of her temper and stinginess, and her family of pert, quarrelsome children. Marilla felt a qualm of conscience at the thought of handing Anne over to her tender mercies.
她只见过彼得·布卢伊特夫人，她身材娇小，面容泼辣，骨头上没有一丁点多余的肉。但她听说过她。据说彼得夫人是“一个糟糕的工人和司机”。被解雇的女仆讲述了她的脾气和吝啬的可怕故事，以及她的家庭中顽皮、爱吵架的孩子。一想到要把安妮交给她温柔的怜悯，马里拉就感到良心不安。

‘Well, I’ll go in and we’ll talk the matter over,’ she said.
“好吧，我进去，我们谈谈这件事，”她说。

‘And if there isn’t Mrs. Peter coming up the lane this blessed minute!’ exclaimed Mrs. Spencer, bustling her guests through the hall into the parlor, where a deadly chill struck on them as if the air had been strained so long through dark green, closely drawn blinds that it had lost every particle of warmth it had ever possessed. ‘That is real lucky, for we can settle the matter right away. Take the armchair, Miss Cuthbert. Anne, you sit here on the ottoman and don’t wiggle. Let me take your hats. Flora Jane, go out and put the kettle on. Good afternoon, Mrs. Blewett. We were just saying how fortunate it was you happened along. Let me introduce you two ladies. Mrs. Blewett, Miss Cuthbert. Please excuse me for just a moment. I forgot to tell Flora Jane to take the buns out of the oven.’
“如果没有彼得夫人在这神圣的时刻从巷子里过来的话！”斯宾塞夫人惊呼道，她催促着她的客人们穿过大厅进入客厅，一股致命的寒气向他们袭来，仿佛空气已经被压缩了太久了。透过深绿色、紧闭的百叶窗，它已经失去了曾经拥有的每一丝温暖。 ‘真是幸运，我们可以马上解决问题。卡斯伯特小姐，请坐扶手椅。安妮，你坐在脚凳上，不要扭动。让我拿走你们的帽子。弗洛拉·简，出去把水壶打开。下午好，布卢伊特夫人。我们只是说有你在身边是多么幸运。让我给你们介绍两位女士。布卢伊特夫人，卡斯伯特小姐。请原谅我一会儿。我忘了告诉弗洛拉·简把面包从烤箱里拿出来。”

Mrs. Spencer whisked away, after pulling up the blinds. Anne sitting mutely on the ottoman, with her hands clasped tightly in her lap, stared at Mrs Blewett as one fascinated. Was she to be given into the keeping of this sharp-faced, sharp-eyed woman? She felt a lump coming up in her throat and her eyes smarted painfully. She was beginning to be afraid she couldn’t keep the tears back when Mrs. Spencer returned, flushed and beaming, quite capable of taking any and every difficulty, physical, mental or spiritual, into consideration and settling it out of hand.
斯宾塞夫人拉上百叶窗后迅速离开。安妮默默地坐在脚凳上，双手紧紧地握在腿上，出神地盯着布卢伊特夫人。难道要交给这个脸尖眼尖的女人照顾吗？她感觉喉咙里有一个肿块，眼睛发痛。当斯宾塞夫人回来时，她开始担心自己无法忍住泪水，她满脸通红，笑容满面，非常有能力考虑到任何困难，无论是身体上的、精神上的还是精神上的，并立即解决它。

‘It seems there’s been a mistake about this little girl, Mrs. Blewett,’ she said. ‘I was under the impression that Mr. and Miss Cuthbert wanted a little girl to adopt. I was certainly told so. But it seems it was a boy they wanted. So if you’re still of the same mind you were yesterday, I think she’ll be just the thing for you.’
“布卢伊特夫人，这个小女孩似乎犯了一个错误，”她说。 “我的印象是卡斯伯特先生和小姐想要收养一个小女孩。我当然被告知了。但看来这是他们想要的一个男孩。所以，如果你的想法仍然和昨天一样，我想她就是你的最佳选择。

Mrs. Blewett darted her eyes over Anne from head to foot.
布卢伊特夫人从头到脚地扫视着安妮。

‘How old are you and what’s your name?’ she demanded.
“你多大了？你叫什么名字？”她问道。

‘Anne Shirley,’ faltered the shrinking child, not daring to make any stipulations regarding the spelling thereof, ‘and I’m eleven years old.’
“安妮·雪莉，”胆怯的孩子结结巴巴地说，不敢对拼写做出任何规定，“我十一岁了。”

‘Humph! You don’t look as if there was much to you. But you’re wiry. I don’t know but the wiry ones are the best after all. Well, if I take you you’ll have to be a good girl, you know—good and smart and respectful. I’ll expect you to earn your keep, and no mistake about that. Yes, I suppose I might as well take her off your hands, Miss Cuthbert. The baby’s awful fractious, and I’m clean worn out attending to him. If you like I can take her right home now.’
'哼！你看上去似乎没什么大不了的。但你很瘦弱。我不知道，但毕竟钢丝是最好的。好吧，如果我接受你，你就必须是一个好女孩，你知道的——善良、聪明、有礼貌。我希望你能挣钱养活自己，这一点没错。是的，我想我最好把她从你手中夺走，卡斯伯特小姐。这孩子脾气暴躁，我照顾他已经累坏了。如果你愿意的话我现在就可以带她回家。”

Marilla looked at Anne and softened at sight of the child’s pale face with its look of mute misery—the misery of a helpless little creature who finds itself once more caught in the trap from which it had escaped. Marilla felt an uncomfortable conviction that, if she denied the appeal of that look, it would haunt her to her dying day. Moreover, she did not fancy Mrs. Blewett. To hand a sensitive, ‘highstrung’ child over to such a woman! No, she could not take the responsibility of doing that!
玛丽拉看着安妮，看到孩子苍白的脸和无声的痛苦表情，她的心软化了——这是一个无助的小动物发现自己再次陷入了它逃脱的陷阱的痛苦。玛丽拉感到一种不安的信念，如果她否认这种外表的吸引力，它会一直困扰着她直到她临死为止。而且，她也不喜欢布卢伊特夫人。把一个敏感、‘神经质’的孩子交给这样一个女人！不，她不能承担那样的责任！

‘Well, I don’t know,’ she said slowly. ‘I didn’t say that Matthew and I had absolutely decided that we wouldn’t keep her. In fact I may say that Matthew is disposed to keep her. I just came over to find out how the mistake had occurred. I think I’d better take her home again and talk it over with Matthew. I feel that I oughtn’t to decide on anything without consulting him. If we make up our mind not to keep her we’ll bring or send her over to you tomorrow night. If we don’t you may know that she is going to stay with us. Will that suit you, Mrs. Blewett?’
“嗯，我不知道，”她慢慢地说。 “我并没有说马修和我绝对决定不留下她。事实上我可以说马修打算留下她。我只是过来看看这个错误是怎么发生的。我想我最好再带她回家，和马修商量一下。我觉得我不应该在没有咨询他的情况下做出任何决定。如果我们决定不留下她，我们明天晚上就会把她带到或送去给您。如果我们不这样做，您可能知道她会和我们住在一起。布卢伊特夫人，这适合你吗？

‘I suppose it’ll have to,’ said Mrs. Blewett ungraciously.
“我想这是必须的，”布卢伊特夫人不客气地说。

During Marilla’s speech a sunrise had been dawning on Anne’s face. First the look of despair faded out; then came a faint flush of hope; here eyes grew deep and bright as morning stars. The child was quite transfigured; and, a moment later, when Mrs. Spencer and Mrs. Blewett went out in quest of a recipe the latter had come to borrow she sprang up and flew across the room to Marilla.
在玛丽拉讲话的时候，安妮的脸上已经露出了日出的光芒。首先，绝望的表情消失了；随之而来的是一丝微弱的希望。这里的眼睛变得深邃而明亮，如晨星。孩子整个人都变了。过了一会儿，当斯宾塞夫人和布卢伊特夫人出去寻找菜谱时，布卢伊特夫人来借菜谱，她跳了起来，飞过房间，飞到玛丽拉那里。

‘Oh, Miss Cuthbert, did you really say that perhaps you would let me stay at Green Gables?’ she said, in a breathless whisper, as if speaking aloud might shatter the glorious possibility. ‘Did you really say it? Or did I only imagine that you did?’
“哦，卡斯伯特小姐，你真的说过也许你会让我留在绿山墙吗？”她气喘吁吁地低声说道，仿佛大声说话可能会粉碎这个光荣的可能性。 ‘你真的说过吗？还是我只是想象你这么做了？

‘I think you’d better learn to control that imagination of yours, Anne, if you can’t distinguish between what is real and what isn’t,’ said Marilla crossly. ‘Yes, you did hear me say just that and no more. It isn’t decided yet and perhaps we will conclude to let Mrs. Blewett take you after all. She certainly needs you much more than I do.’
“我认为，如果你无法区分什么是真实的，什么不是真实的，安妮，你最好学会控制你的想象力，”玛丽拉生气地说。 “是的，你确实听到我说了这些，仅此而已。”尚未决定，也许我们最终会决定让布卢伊特夫人带你去。她当然比我更需要你。

‘I’d rather go back to the asylum than go to live with her,’ said Anne passionately. ‘She looks exactly like a—like a gimlet.’
“我宁愿回到精神病院，也不愿和她住在一起。”安妮热情地说。 “她看起来就像——就像一个钻头。”

Marilla smothered a smile under the conviction that Anne must be reproved for such a speech.
玛丽拉强忍着笑容，她确信安妮的这种言论一定会受到谴责。

‘A little girl like you should be ashamed of talking so about a lady and a stranger,’ she said severely. ‘Go back and sit down quietly and hold your tongue and behave as a good girl should.’
“像你这样的小女孩应该为谈论一位女士和一个陌生人而感到羞耻，”她严厉地说。 “回去安静地坐下来，闭嘴，表现得像一个好女孩应该的那样。”

‘I’ll try to do and be anything you want me, if you’ll only keep me,’ said Anne, returning meekly to her ottoman.
“如果你愿意留下我，我会尽力去做你想要我做的任何事情，”安妮温顺地回到她的脚凳上说道。

When they arrived back at Green Gables that evening Matthew met them in the lane. Marilla from afar had noted him prowling along it and guessed his motive. She was prepared for the relief she read in his face when he saw that she had at least brought back Anne back with her. But she said nothing, to him, relative to the affair, until they were both out in the yard behind the barn milking the cows. Then she briefly told him Anne’s history and the result of the interview with Mrs. Spencer.
那天晚上，当他们回到绿山墙时，马修在小巷里遇见了他们。玛丽拉远远地注意到他沿着这条路徘徊，并猜出了他的动机。当他看到她至少把安妮带回来时，她从他脸上看到的轻松感已经做好了准备。但她没有对他提及这件事，直到他们俩都到谷仓后面的院子里挤牛奶。然后她简单地向他讲述了安妮的历史以及斯宾塞夫人的采访结果。

‘I wouldn’t give a dog I liked to that Blewett woman,’ said Matthew with unusual vim.’
“我不会把我喜欢的狗送给那个布卢伊特女人。”马修语气异常的激动。

‘I don’t fancy her style myself,’ admitted Marilla, ‘but it’s that or keeping her ourselves, Matthew. And since you seem to want her, I suppose I’m willing—or have to be. I’ve been thinking over the idea until I’ve got kind of used to it. It seems a sort of duty. I’ve never brought up a child, especially a girl, and I dare say I’ll make a terrible mess of it. But I’ll do my best. So far as I’m concerned, Matthew, she may stay.’
“我自己并不喜欢她的风格，”玛丽拉承认，“但就是这样，或者让她保持自己，马修。既然你似乎想要她，我想我愿意——或者必须如此。我一直在思考这个想法，直到我有点习惯为止。这似乎是一种义务。我从来没有养育过孩子，尤其是女孩，我敢说我会把它搞得一团糟。但我会尽力而为。就我而言，马修，她可能会留下来。

Matthew’s shy face was a glow of delight.
马修害羞的脸上闪现出喜悦的光芒。

‘Well now, I reckoned you’d come to see it in that light, Marilla,’ he said. ‘She’s such an interesting little thing.’
“好吧，我想你会从这个角度来看待它的，玛丽拉，”他说。 “她真是个有趣的小东西。”

‘It’d be more to the point if you could say she was a useful little thing,’ retorted Marilla, ‘but I’ll make it my business to see she’s trained to be that. And mind, Matthew, you’re not to go interfering with my methods. Perhaps an old maid doesn’t know much about bringing up a child, but I guess she knows more than an old bachelor. So you just leave me to manage her. When I fail it’ll be time enough to put your oar in.’
“如果你能说她是一个有用的小东西，那就更切中要害了，”玛丽拉反驳道，“但我会以看到她被训练成这个样子为己任。请注意，马修，你不要去干扰我的方法。也许一个老姑娘不太懂养孩子，但我想她比一个老光棍懂得更多。所以你就让我来管理她吧。当我失败时，你就有足够的时间把桨划进去了。

‘There, there, Marilla, you can have your own way,’ said Matthew reassuringly. ‘Only be as good and kind to her as you can without spoiling her. I kind of think she’s one of the sort you can do anything with if you only get her to love you.’
“好了，好了，玛丽拉，你可以随心所欲，”马修安慰地说。 ‘只能尽可能地对她好，不要宠坏她。我觉得她是那种你可以为她做任何事情的人，只要你让她爱你。”

Marilla sniffed, to express her contempt for Matthew’s opinions concerning anything feminine, and walked off to the dairy with the pails.
玛丽拉吸了吸鼻子，以表达她对马修关于任何女性化事物的看法的蔑视，然后提着桶朝牛奶店走去。

‘I won’t tell her tonight that she can stay,’ she reflected, as she strained the milk into the creamers. ‘She’d be so excited that she wouldn’t sleep a wink. Marilla Cuthbert, you’re fairly in for it. Did you ever suppose you’d see the day when you’d be adopting an orphan girl? It’s surprising enough; but not so surprising as that Matthew should be at the bottom of it, him that always seemed to have such a mortal dread of little girls. Anyhow, we’ve decided on the experiment and goodness only knows what will come of it.’
“今晚我不会告诉她她可以留下来，”她边想边把牛奶滤进奶精里。 “她会兴奋得一夜没合眼。玛丽拉·卡斯伯特，你很适合。你有没有想过有一天你会收养一个孤女？这已经够令人惊讶的了；但最令人惊讶的是马修竟然是这件事的根源，他似乎总是对小女孩怀有一种致命的恐惧。不管怎样，我们已经决定进行这个实验，只有天知道会发生什么。

Chapter VII
第七章


Anne Says Her Prayers
安妮祈祷

When Marilla took Anne up to bed that night she said stiffly:
那天晚上，当玛丽拉把安妮抱上床睡觉时，她生硬地说：

‘Now, Anne, I noticed last night that you threw your clothes all about the floor when you took them off. That is a very untidy habit, and I can’t allow it at all. As soon as you take off any article of clothing fold it neatly and place it on the chair. I haven’t any use at all for little girls who aren’t neat.’
“现在，安妮，昨晚我注意到你脱下衣服时把衣服扔得满地都是。这是一个非常不整洁的习惯，我根本不能允许。一旦脱下任何衣服，请将其折叠整齐并放在椅子上。不整洁的小女孩对我来说根本没有任何用处。

‘I was so harrowed up in my mind last night that I didn’t think about my clothes at all,’ said Anne. ‘I’ll fold them nicely tonight. They always made us do that at the asylum. Half the time, though, I’d forget, I’d be in such a hurry to get into bed nice and quiet and imagine things.’
“昨晚我心里非常难过，根本没有想到我的衣服，”安妮说。 “今晚我会把它们折叠得很好。他们总是让我们在精神病院这样做。不过，有一半的时候，我会忘记，我会急于安静地躺在床上，想象一些事情。

‘You’ll have to remember a little better if you stay here,’ admonished Marilla. ‘There, that looks something like. Say your prayers now and get into bed.’
“如果你留在这里，你就必须记住一点，”玛丽拉告诫道。 ‘瞧，看起来有点像。现在祈祷并上床睡觉吧。

‘I never say any prayers,’ announced Anne.
“我从不做任何祈祷，”安妮宣布。

Marilla looked horrified astonishment.
玛丽拉看上去惊恐万状。

‘Why, Anne, what do you mean? Were you never taught to say your prayers? God always wants little girls to say their prayers. Don’t you know who God is, Anne?’
‘为什么，安妮，你这是什么意思？你从来没有被教导过要祈祷吗？上帝总是希望小女孩能够祈祷。你难道不知道上帝是谁吗，安妮？

‘God is a spirit, infinite, eternal and unchangeable, in His being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth,’ responded Anne promptly and glibly.
“上帝是一个灵，无限、永恒、不变，他的存在、智慧、力量、圣洁、正义、良善和真理，”安妮迅速而流利地回答道。

Marilla looked rather relieved.
玛丽拉看上去松了口气。

‘So you do know something then, thank goodness! You’re not quite a heathen. Where did you learn that?’
‘所以你确实知道一些事情，谢天谢地！你不完全是一个异教徒。你从哪里学到的？

‘Oh, at the asylum Sunday-school. They made us learn the whole catechism. I liked it pretty well. There’s something splendid about some of the words. ‘Infinite, eternal and unchangeable.’ Isn’t that grand? It has such a roll to it—just like a big organ playing. You couldn’t quite call it poetry, I suppose, but it sounds a lot like it, doesn’t it?’
“哦，在收容所主日学校。他们让我们学习了整个教义问答。我非常喜欢它。有些词有一些精彩的地方。 “无限、永恒、不变。”这不是很伟大吗？它的滚动感非常好——就像一架大风琴在演奏。我想你不能完全称其为诗歌，但听起来很像，不是吗？

‘We’re not talking about poetry, Anne—we are talking about saying your prayers. Don’t you know it’s a terrible wicked thing not to say your prayers every night? I’m afraid you are a very bad little girl.’
“我们不是在谈论诗歌，安妮——我们是在谈论祈祷。难道你不知道每天晚上不祈祷是一件非常邪恶的事情吗？恐怕你是个很坏的小女孩。

‘You’d find it easier to be bad than good if you had red hair,’ said Anne reproachfully. ‘People who haven’t red hair don’t know what trouble is. Mrs. Thomas told me that God made my hair red ON PURPOSE, and I’ve never cared about Him since. And anyhow I’d always be too tired at night to bother saying prayers. People who have to look after twins can’t be expected to say their prayers. Now, do you honestly think they can?’
“如果你有一头红头发，你会发现做坏事比做好事更容易。”安妮责备地说。 ‘没有红头发的人不知道什么是麻烦。托马斯夫人告诉我，上帝故意让我的头发变成红色，从那以后我再也没有关心过他。不管怎样，晚上我总是太累了，懒得去祈祷。不能指望那些必须照顾双胞胎的人会祈祷。现在，你真的认为他们可以吗？

Marilla decided that Anne’s religious training must be begun at once. Plainly there was no time to be lost.
玛丽拉决定必须立即开始安妮的宗教训练。显然，没有时间可以浪费了。

‘You must say your prayers while you are under my roof, Anne.’
“当你在我的屋檐下时，你必须祈祷，安妮。”

‘Why, of course, if you want me to,’ assented Anne cheerfully. ‘I’d do anything to oblige you. But you’ll have to tell me what to say for this once. After I get into bed I’ll imagine out a real nice prayer to say always. I believe that it will be quite interesting, now that I come to think of it.’
“当然可以，如果你愿意的话，”安妮高兴地答应道。 “我愿意做任何事情来满足你。但你必须告诉我这次要说什么。当我上床睡觉后，我会想象出一个真正美好的祈祷，永远要说。现在想起来，我相信这会很有趣。”

‘You must kneel down,’ said Marilla in embarrassment.
“你必须跪下，”玛丽拉尴尬地说。

Anne knelt at Marilla’s knee and looked up gravely.
安妮跪在玛丽拉的膝盖上，严肃地抬起头。

‘Why must people kneel down to pray?’ If I really wanted to pray I’ll tell you what I’d do. I’d go out into a great big field all alone or into the deep, deep, woods, and I’d look up into the sky—up—up—up—into that lovely blue sky that looks as if there was no end to its blueness. And then I’d just FEEL a prayer. Well, I’m ready. What am I to say?’
“为什么人们必须跪下来祈祷？”如果我真的想祈祷，我会告诉你我会做什么。我会独自一人走进一片广阔的田野，或者走进深深的树林，抬头仰望天空——向上——向上——向上——那可爱的蓝天，看起来好像没有尽头到它的蓝色。然后我就会感到祈祷。好吧，我准备好了。我该说什么？

Marilla felt more embarrassed than ever. She had intended to teach Anne the childish classic, ‘Now I lay me down to sleep.’ But she had, as I have told you, the glimmerings of a sense of humor—which is simply another name for a sense of fitness of things; and it suddenly occurred to her that that simple little prayer, sacred to white-robed childhood lisping at motherly knees, was entirely unsuited to this freckled witch of a girl who knew and cared nothing bout God’s love, since she had never had it translated to her through the medium of human love.
玛丽拉感到比以往任何时候都更尴尬。她本来打算教安妮那句幼稚的经典，“现在我躺下来睡觉了。”但正如我告诉过你的，她有一丝幽默感——这只是事物适合感的另一个名字;她突然想到，这个简单的小祈祷，对白袍童年来说是神圣的，在母亲的膝盖上口齿不清，完全不适合这个满脸雀斑的女巫，她对上帝的爱一无所知，也不关心，因为她从来没有把它翻译成她通过人类的爱的媒介。

‘You’re old enough to pray for yourself, Anne,’ she said finally. ‘Just thank God for your blessings and ask Him humbly for the things you want.’
“安妮，你已经长大了，可以为自己祈祷了。”她最后说道。 “感谢上帝赐予你的祝福，并谦卑地向他祈求你想要的东西。”

‘Well, I’ll do my best,’ promised Anne, burying her face in Marilla’s lap. ‘Gracious heavenly Father—that’s the way the ministers say it in church, so I suppose it’s all right in private prayer, isn’t it?’ she interjected, lifting her head for a moment.
“好吧，我会尽力的，”安妮把脸埋在玛丽拉的腿上，保证道。 “仁慈的天父——牧师们在教堂里都是这么说的，所以我想私下祈祷是可以的，不是吗？”她抬起头，插话道。

‘Gracious heavenly Father, I thank Thee for the White Way of Delight and the Lake of Shining Waters and Bonny and the Snow Queen. I’m really extremely grateful for them. And that’s all the blessings I can think of just now to thank Thee for. As for the things I want, they’re so numerous that it would take a great deal of time to name them all so I will only mention the two most important. Please let me stay at Green Gables; and please let me be good-looking when I grow up.
“仁慈的天父，我感谢您赐予白色的欢乐之路、闪亮的湖水、邦妮和雪之女王。”我真的非常感谢他们。这就是我现在能想到的所有要感谢你的祝福。至于我想要的东西，太多了，要花很多时间才能说出它们的名字，所以我只提最重要的两个。请让我留在绿山墙；也请让我长大后变得好看。


I remain,
我保持，

‘Yours respectfully,
'此致，敬礼，

Anne Shirley.
安妮·雪莉.

‘There, did I do all right?’ she asked eagerly, getting up. ‘I could have made it much more flowery if I’d had a little more time to think it over.’
“怎么样，我做得还好吗？”她站起来，急切地问道。 “如果我有更多时间思考的话，我本可以把它做得更加华丽。”

Poor Marilla was only preserved from complete collapse by remembering that it was not irreverence, but simply spiritual ignorance on the part of Anne that was responsible for this extraordinary petition. She tucked the child up in bed, mentally vowing that she should be taught a prayer the very next day, and was leaving the room with the light when Anne called her back.
可怜的玛丽拉只有记住，安妮造成这一非同寻常的请愿并不是不敬，而只是精神上的无知，才免于彻底崩溃。她把孩子盖在床上，心里发誓第二天就应该教她祈祷，当安妮叫她回来时，她正准备离开开着灯的房间。

‘I’ve just thought of it now. I should have said, ‘Amen’ in place of ‘yours respectfully,’ shouldn’t I?—the way the ministers do. I’d forgotten it, but I felt a prayer should be finished off in some way, so I put in the other. Do you suppose it will make any difference?’
‘我现在才想到这一点。我应该说“阿门”而不是“谨此致辞”，不是吗？——就像牧师们所做的那样。我忘记了，但我觉得祈祷应该以某种方式结束，所以我把另一个祈祷放进去。你认为这会有什么不同吗？

‘I—I don’t suppose it will,’ said Marilla. ‘Go to sleep now like a good child. Good night.’
“我——我想不会的，”玛丽拉说。 “现在像个好孩子一样去睡觉吧。”晚安。'

‘I can only say good night tonight with a clear conscience,’ said Anne, cuddling luxuriously down among her pillows.
“今晚我只能问心无愧地道晚安，”安妮舒适地依偎在枕头里说道。

Marilla retreated to the kitchen, set the candle firmly on the table, and glared at Matthew.
马瑞拉退到厨房，把蜡烛稳稳地放在桌子上，瞪着马修。

‘Matthew Cuthbert, it’s about time somebody adopted that child and taught her something. She’s next door to a perfect heathen. Will you believe that she never said a prayer in her life till tonight? I’ll send her to the manse tomorrow and borrow the Peep of the Day series, that’s what I’ll do. And she shall go to Sunday-school just as soon as I can get some suitable clothes made for her. I foresee that I shall have my hands full. Well, well, we can’t get through this world without our share of trouble. I’ve had a pretty easy life of it so far, but my time has come at last and I suppose I’ll just have to make the best of it.’
“马修·库斯伯特，是时候有人收养这个孩子并教她一些东西了。”她的隔壁是一个完美的异教徒。你相信她一生中直到今晚才祈祷过吗？明天我会送她去宅邸并借用《今日窥视》系列，这就是我要做的。一旦我能为她做一些合适的衣服，她就会去主日学校。我预见我将忙得不可开交。好吧，好吧，我们无法在这个世界上不遇到麻烦。到目前为止，我的生活相当轻松，但我的时代终于到来了，我想我必须充分利用它。

Chapter VIII
第八章


Anne’s Bringing-up Is Begun
安妮的培养开始了

For reasons best known to herself, Marilla did not tell Anne that she was to stay at Green Gables until the next afternoon. During the forenoon she kept the child busy with various tasks and watched over her with a keen eye while she did them. By noon she had concluded that Anne was smart and obedient, willing to work and quick to learn; her most serious shortcoming seemed to be a tendency to fall into daydreams in the middle of a task and forget all about it until such time as she was sharply recalled to earth by a reprimand or a catastrophe.
由于她自己最清楚的原因，玛丽拉没有告诉安妮她要在绿山墙呆到第二天下午。整个上午，她让孩子忙着做各种事情，并在她做这些事情时用敏锐的目光注视着她。到了中午，她得出的结论是，安妮聪明、听话、愿意工作、学得很快。她最严重的缺点似乎是在工作中容易陷入白日梦，然后忘记一切，直到受到斥责或灾难才将她拉回现实。

When Anne had finished washing the dinner dishes she suddenly confronted Marilla with the air and expression of one desperately determined to learn the worst. Her thin little body trembled from head to foot; her face flushed and her eyes dilated until they were almost black; she clasped her hands tightly and said in an imploring voice:
当安妮洗完晚餐的盘子后，她突然面对玛丽拉，脸上的神态和表情就像是一个拼命想知道最坏情况的人。她瘦小的身体从头到脚都在颤抖。她的脸涨得通红，眼睛睁大，几乎变成黑色。她紧紧地握着双手，用哀求的声音说道：

‘Oh, please, Miss Cuthbert, won’t you tell me if you are going to send me away or not?’ I’ve tried to be patient all the morning, but I really feel that I cannot bear not knowing any longer. It’s a dreadful feeling. Please tell me.’
“哦，拜托，卡斯伯特小姐，你能告诉我你是否要送我走吗？”整个早上我都在努力保持耐心，但我真的觉得我无法忍受再不知道了。这是一种可怕的感觉。请告诉我。'

‘You haven’t scalded the dishcloth in clean hot water as I told you to do,’ said Marilla immovably. ‘Just go and do it before you ask any more questions, Anne.’
“你没有按照我告诉你的那样，用干净的热水烫洗抹布。”玛丽拉不动声色地说。 “安妮，在你问任何问题之前就先去做吧。”

Anne went and attended to the dishcloth. Then she returned to Marilla and fastened imploring eyes of the latter’s face. ‘Well,’ said Marilla, unable to find any excuse for deferring her explanation longer, ‘I suppose I might as well tell you. Matthew and I have decided to keep you—that is, if you will try to be a good little girl and show yourself grateful. Why, child, whatever is the matter?’
安妮去收拾抹布。然后她回到马瑞拉身边，用恳求的目光注视着后者的脸。 “好吧，”玛丽拉找不到任何理由拖延解释，“我想我还是告诉你吧。”马修和我决定留下你——也就是说，如果你愿意努力做一个好小女孩并表现出感激之情。为什么，孩子，到底出了什么事？

‘I’m crying,’ said Anne in a tone of bewilderment. ‘I can’t think why. I’m glad as glad can be. Oh, GLAD doesn’t seem the right word at all. I was glad about the White Way and the cherry blossoms—but this! Oh, it’s something more than glad. I’m so happy. I’ll try to be so good. It will be uphill work, I expect, for Mrs. Thomas often told me I was desperately wicked. However, I’ll do my very best. But can you tell me why I’m crying?’
“我在哭。”安妮困惑地说。 “我想不出为什么。我很高兴。哦，“高兴”这个词似乎根本不合适。我对白色之路和樱花感到很高兴——但是这个！哦，这不仅仅是高兴。我太高兴了。我会努力变得如此优秀。我预计这将是一项艰巨的工作，因为托马斯夫人经常告诉我，我非常邪恶。不过，我会尽力而为。但你能告诉我为什么我哭吗？

‘I suppose it’s because you’re all excited and worked up,’ said Marilla disapprovingly. ‘Sit down on that chair and try to calm yourself. I’m afraid you both cry and laugh far too easily. Yes, you can stay here and we will try to do right by you. You must go to school; but it’s only a fortnight till vacation so it isn’t worth while for you to start before it opens again in September.’
“我想这是因为你们太兴奋了，太激动了。”玛丽拉不以为然地说。 “坐在那把椅子上，试着让自己平静下来。恐怕你们都太容易哭和笑了。是的，您可以留在这里，我们会尽力为您做正确的事。你必须去学校；但距离假期只有两周了，所以在九月重新开放之前不值得你开始。”

‘What am I to call you?’ asked Anne. ‘Shall I always say Miss Cuthbert? Can I call you Aunt Marilla?’
“我该怎么称呼你呢？”安妮问。 “我应该一直说卡斯伯特小姐吗？”我可以叫你玛丽拉阿姨吗？

‘No; you’ll call me just plain Marilla. I’m not used to being called Miss Cuthbert and it would make me nervous.’
'不;你会叫我普通的玛丽拉。我不习惯被称为卡斯伯特小姐，这会让我紧张。”

‘It sounds awfully disrespectful to just say Marilla,’ protested Anne.
“只说玛丽拉听起来非常不尊重，”安妮抗议道。

‘I guess there’ll be nothing disrespectful in it if you’re careful to speak respectfully. Everybody, young and old, in Avonlea calls me Marilla except the minister. He says Miss Cuthbert—when he thinks of it.’
“我想如果你小心地说话尊重的话，这不会有什么不尊重的地方。埃文利的每个人，无论老少，都叫我玛丽拉，除了部长。他说是卡斯伯特小姐——当他想到这一点时。

‘I’d love to call you Aunt Marilla,’ said Anne wistfully. ‘I’ve never had an aunt or any relation at all—not even a grandmother. It would make me feel as if I really belonged to you. Can’t I call you Aunt Marilla?’
“我很想叫你玛丽拉阿姨，”安妮若有所思地说。 “我从来没有过阿姨或任何亲戚——甚至没有祖母。这会让我觉得我真的属于你。我不能叫你玛丽拉阿姨吗？

‘No. I’m not your aunt and I don’t believe in calling people names that don’t belong to them.’
'不。我不是你阿姨，我不喜欢用不属于他们的名字来称呼别人。”

‘But we could imagine you were my aunt.’
“但我们可以想象你是我的阿姨。”

‘I couldn’t,’ said Marilla grimly.
“我不能，”玛丽拉冷酷地说。

‘Do you never imagine things different from what they really are?’ asked Anne wide-eyed.
“你从来没有想象过与实际情况不同的事情吗？”安妮睁大眼睛问道。

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Oh!’ Anne drew a long breath. ‘Oh, Miss—Marilla, how much you miss!’
“哦！”安妮长长地吸了一口气。 “哦，玛丽拉小姐，你多么想念啊！”

‘I don’t believe in imagining things different from what they really are,’ retorted Marilla. ‘When the Lord puts us in certain circumstances He doesn’t mean for us to imagine them away. And that reminds me. Go into the sitting room, Anne—be sure your feet are clean and don’t let any flies in—and bring me out the illustrated card that’s on the mantelpiece. The Lord’s Prayer is on it and you’ll devote your spare time this afternoon to learning it off by heart. There’s to be no more of such praying as I heard last night.’
“我不相信想象的事情与实际情况不同，”马里拉反驳道。 ‘当主将我们置于某些环境中时，他并不是要我们想象它们会消失。这让我想起了。安妮，走进客厅——确保你的脚干净，不要让苍蝇进来——然后把壁炉架上的插图卡片拿出来。主祷文就在其中，你今天下午将利用空闲时间来背诵它。不会再有像我昨晚听到的那样的祈祷了。”

‘I suppose I was very awkward,’ said Anne apologetically, ‘but then, you see, I’d never had any practice. You couldn’t really expect a person to pray very well the first time she tried, could you? I thought out a splendid prayer after I went to bed, just as I promised you I would. It was nearly as long as a minister’s and so poetical. But would you believe it? I couldn’t remember one word when I woke up this morning. And I’m afraid I’ll never be able to think out another one as good. Somehow, things never are so good when they’re thought out a second time. Have you ever noticed that?’
“我想我当时很尴尬，”安妮抱歉地说，“但是，你看，我从来没有进行过任何练习。你真的不能指望一个人第一次尝试就能很好地祈祷，不是吗？上床睡觉后，我想出了一个精彩的祈祷文，就像我向你保证的那样。它几乎和牧师的一样长，而且非常富有诗意。但你会相信吗？今天早上我醒来时一个字都记不起来了。我担心我永远无法想出另一个同样好的东西。不知何故，当事情经过第二次思考时，事情永远不会那么好。你注意到了吗？

‘Here is something for you to notice, Anne. When I tell you to do a thing I want you to obey me at once and not stand stock-still and discourse about it. Just you go and do as I bid you.’
“安妮，有件事需要你注意。当我告诉你做一件事时，我希望你立即服从我，而不是站着不动并谈论它。你就照我吩咐的去做吧。

Anne promptly departed for the sitting-room across the hall; she failed to return; after waiting ten minutes Marilla laid down her knitting and marched after her with a grim expression. She found Anne standing motionless before a picture hanging on the wall between the two windows, with her eyes astar with dreams. The white and green light strained through apple trees and clustering vines outside fell over the rapt little figure with a half-unearthly radiance.
安妮立即走向大厅对面的客厅。她没能回来；等了十分钟后，玛丽拉放下手中的毛衣，表情严肃地跟在她后面走。她发现安妮一动不动地站在两扇窗户之间的墙上挂着的一幅画前，眼睛里充满了梦想。白色和绿色的光线透过外面的苹果树和丛生的藤蔓，落在这个全神贯注的小人物身上，散发出一种半神秘的光芒。

‘Anne, whatever are you thinking of?’ demanded Marilla sharply.
“安妮，你在想什么？”玛丽拉尖锐地问道。

Anne came back to earth with a start.
安妮一惊，回到了地面。

‘That,’ she said, pointing to the picture—a rather vivid chromo entitled, ‘Christ Blessing Little Children’—‘and I was just imagining I was one of them—that I was the little girl in the blue dress, standing off by herself in the corner as if she didn’t belong to anybody, like me. She looks lonely and sad, don’t you think? I guess she hadn’t any father or mother of her own. But she wanted to be blessed, too, so she just crept shyly up on the outside of the crowd, hoping nobody would notice her—except Him. I’m sure I know just how she felt. Her heart must have beat and her hands must have got cold, like mine did when I asked you if I could stay. She was afraid He mightn’t notice her. But it’s likely He did, don’t you think? I’ve been trying to imagine it all out—her edging a little nearer all the time until she was quite close to Him; and then He would look at her and put His hand on her hair and oh, such a thrill of joy as would run over her! But I wish the artist hadn’t painted Him so sorrowful looking. All His pictures are like that, if you’ve noticed. But I don’t believe He could really have looked so sad or the children would have been afraid of Him.’
“那，”她指着那张照片——一张相当生动的彩色照片，标题是“基督祝福小孩子”——“我只是想象我是他们中的一员——我就是那个穿着蓝色裙子的小女孩，站在一边独自一人坐在角落里，仿佛她不属于任何人，就像我一样。她看起来孤独又悲伤，你不觉得吗？我猜她没有自己的父亲或母亲。但她也想受到祝福，所以她只是害羞地爬到人群外面，希望没有人会注意到她——除了他。我确信我知道她的感受。她的心跳一定很厉害，她的手一定很冷，就像我问你是否可以留下来时我的手一样。她害怕他不会注意到她。但他很可能做到了，你不觉得吗？我一直在努力想象这一切——她一直在靠近一点，直到她离他很近；她一直在靠近他。然后他会看着她，把手放在她的头发上，噢，一种喜悦的颤栗袭遍了她的全身！但我希望画家没有把他画得那么悲伤。如果你注意到的话，他所有的照片都是这样的。但我不相信他真的会看起来如此悲伤，否则孩子们会害怕他。”

‘Anne,’ said Marilla, wondering why she had not broken into this speech long before, ‘you shouldn’t talk that way. It’s irreverent—positively irreverent.’
“安妮，”玛丽拉说，她想知道自己为什么没有早点插话，“你不应该那样说话。”这是不敬的——绝对是不敬的。

Anne’s eyes marveled.
安妮的眼神里充满了惊叹。

‘Why, I felt just as reverent as could be. I’m sure I didn’t mean to be irreverent.’
‘为什么，我感到尽可能的虔诚。我确信我并不是有意不敬。

‘Well I don’t suppose you did—but it doesn’t sound right to talk so familiarly about such things. And another thing, Anne, when I send you after something you’re to bring it at once and not fall into mooning and imagining before pictures. Remember that. Take that card and come right to the kitchen. Now, sit down in the corner and learn that prayer off by heart.’
“好吧，我不认为你这么做了——但如此熟悉地谈论这些事情听起来不太合适。还有一件事，安妮，当我给你送去一些东西时，你要立即把它带来，不要在照片前陷入沉思和想象。请记住这一点。拿着那张卡，直接去厨房。现在，坐在角落里，背诵那个祷告。”

Anne set the card up against the jugful of apple blossoms she had brought in to decorate the dinnertable—Marilla had eyed that decoration askance, but had said nothing— propped her chin on her hands, and fell to studying it intently for several silent minutes.
安妮把卡片放在她带来来装饰餐桌的一壶苹果花上——马里拉斜视着那个装饰品，但什么也没说——用手撑着下巴，专心致志地研究了几分钟，沉默不语。

‘I like this,’ she announced at length. ‘It’s beautiful. I’ve heard it before—I heard the superintendent of the asylum Sunday school say it over once. But I didn’t like it then. He had such a cracked voice and he prayed it so mournfully. I really felt sure he thought praying was a disagreeable duty. This isn’t poetry, but it makes me feel just the same way poetry does. ‘Our Father who art in heaven hallowed be Thy name.’ That is just like a line of music. Oh, I’m so glad you thought of making me learn this, Miss— Marilla.’
“我喜欢这个，”她最后宣布。 '很美丽。我以前听过——我听收容所主日学校的负责人说过一次。但我当时不喜欢它。他的声音如此沙哑，祈祷时又如此悲伤。我确实确信他认为祈祷是一项令人讨厌的职责。这不是诗，但它让我有诗一样的感觉。 “我们在天上的父，愿人都尊你的名为圣。”这就像一首音乐。哦，我很高兴你想让我学习这个，玛丽拉小姐。

‘Well, learn it and hold your tongue,’ said Marilla shortly.
“好吧，学习一下，然后闭嘴，”玛丽拉简短地说。

Anne tipped the vase of apple blossoms near enough to bestow a soft kiss on a pink-cupped but, and then studied diligently for some moments longer.
安妮把装着苹果花的花瓶倾斜得足够近，在粉红色的杯状花上轻轻一吻，然后又勤奋地研究了一会儿。

‘Marilla,’ she demanded presently, ‘do you think that I shall ever have a bosom friend in Avonlea?’
“玛丽拉，”她立刻问道，“你认为我在埃文利会有一个知音吗？”

‘A—a what kind of friend?’
“一个——什么样的朋友？”

‘A bosom friend—an intimate friend, you know—a really kindred spirit to whom I can confide my inmost soul. I’ve dreamed of meeting her all my life. I never really supposed I would, but so many of my loveliest dreams have come true all at once that perhaps this one will, too. Do you think it’s possible?’
“一个知音——一个亲密的朋友，你知道——一个真正志同道合的人，我可以向他倾诉我内心深处的情感。我一生都梦想着见到她。我从来没有真正想过我会这么做，但我的许多最可爱的梦想一下子都实现了，也许这个也能实现。你认为这可能吗？

‘Diana Barry lives over at Orchard Slope and she’s about your age. She’s a very nice little girl, and perhaps she will be a playmate for you when she comes home. She’s visiting her aunt over at Carmody just now. You’ll have to be careful how you behave yourself, though. Mrs. Barry is a very particular woman. She won’t let Diana play with any little girl who isn’t nice and good.’
“戴安娜·巴里住在果园坡，她和你年纪相仿。她是一个非常好的小女孩，也许她回家后会成为你的玩伴。她现在正在卡莫迪看望她的姨妈。不过，你必须小心自己的行为举止。巴里夫人是一位非常特别的女人。她不会让戴安娜和任何不乖的小女孩一起玩。

Anne looked at Marilla through the apple blossoms, her eyes aglow with interest.
安妮透过苹果花看着玛丽拉，她的眼睛充满了兴趣。

‘What is Diana like? Her hair isn’t red, is it? Oh, I hope not. It’s bad enough to have red hair myself, but I positively couldn’t endure it in a bosom friend.’
‘戴安娜长什么样？她的头发不是红色的，是吗？哦，我希望不会。我自己有一头红头发已经够糟糕的了，但我绝对无法忍受一个知己。”

‘Diana is a very pretty little girl. She has black eyes and hair and rosy cheeks. And she is good and smart, which is better than being pretty.’
“戴安娜是一个非常漂亮的小女孩。她有黑色的眼睛和头发以及红润的脸颊。她又善良又聪明，这比漂亮更好。”

Marilla was as fond of morals as the Duchess in Wonderland, and was firmly convinced that one should be tacked on to every remark made to a child who was being brought up.
马里拉就像仙境中的公爵夫人一样热衷于道德，她坚信，对一个正在长大的孩子所说的每一句话都应该受到重视。

But Anne waved the moral inconsequently aside and seized only on the delightful possibilities before it.
但安妮却把这个寓意抛在了一边，只抓住了眼前令人愉快的可能性。

‘Oh, I’m so glad she’s pretty. Next to being beautiful oneself—and that’s impossible in my case—it would be best to have a beautiful bosom friend. When I lived with Mrs. Thomas she had a bookcase in her sitting room with glass doors. There weren’t any books in it; Mrs. Thomas kept her best china and her preserves there—when she had any preserves to keep. One of the doors was broken. Mr. Thomas smashed it one night when he was slightly intoxicated. But the other was whole and I used to pretend that my reflection in it was another little girl who lived in it. I called her Katie Maurice, and we were very intimate. I used to talk to her by the hour, especially on Sunday, and tell her everything. Katie was the comfort and consolation of my life. We used to pretend that the bookcase was enchanted and that if I only knew the spell I could open the door and step right into the room where Katie Maurice lived, instead of into Mrs. Thomas’ shelves of preserves and china. And then Katie Maurice would have taken me by the hand and led me out into a wonderful place, all flowers and sunshine and fairies, and we would have lived there happy for ever after. When I went to live with Mrs. Hammond it just broke my heart to leave Katie Maurice. She felt it dreadfully, too, I know she did, for she was crying when she kissed me good-bye through the bookcase door. There was no bookcase at Mrs. Hammond’s. But just up the river a little way from the house there was a long green little valley, and the loveliest echo lived there. It echoed back every word you said, even if you didn’t talk a bit loud. So I imagined that it was a little girl called Violetta and we were great friends and I loved her almost as well as I loved Katie Maurice—not quite, but almost, you know. The night before I went to the asylum I said good-bye to Violetta, and oh, her good-bye came back to me in such sad, sad tones. I had become so attached to her that I hadn’t the heart to imagine a bosom friend at the asylum, even if there had been any scope for imagination there.’
‘哦，我很高兴她很漂亮。除了让自己变得美丽之外——这对我来说是不可能的——最好是有一个美丽的知己。当我和托马斯夫人住在一起时，她的客厅里有一个带玻璃门的书柜。里面没有任何书；托马斯夫人把她最好的瓷器和蜜饯放在那里——当她有蜜饯要保存时。其中一扇门被打破了。一天晚上，托马斯先生喝醉了，就把它砸碎了。但另一个是完整的，我常常假装我在其中的倒影是另一个住在里面的小女孩。我叫她凯蒂·莫里斯，我们关系非常亲密。我过去常常按小时与她交谈，尤其是在周日，并告诉她一切。凯蒂是我生命中的安慰和慰藉。我们常常假装书柜被施了魔法，只要我知道这个咒语，我就可以打开门，直接走进凯蒂·莫里斯住的房间，而不是走进托马斯太太的蜜饯和瓷器架子。然后凯蒂·莫里斯会牵着我的手，带我到一个美妙的地方，那里有鲜花、阳光和仙女，我们会永远幸福地生活在那里。当我去和哈蒙德夫人住在一起时，离开凯蒂·莫里斯让我心碎。我知道她也有这种可怕的感觉，因为当她隔着书柜门吻别我时，她哭了。哈蒙德太太家没有书柜。但就在河的上游，离房子不远的地方，有一条长长的绿色小山谷，最可爱的回声就在那里。即使你说话声音不大，它也会回响你所说的每一个字。所以我想象那是一个叫维奥莱塔的小女孩，我们是好朋友，我爱她几乎就像爱凯蒂·莫里斯一样——不完全是，但几乎，你知道。 在我去精神病院的前一天晚上，我向维奥莱塔说了再见，哦，她的告别语气又如此悲伤、悲伤。我对她如此依恋，以至于我不忍心想象精神病院里有一个知音，即使那里有任何想象的空间。’

‘I think it’s just as well there wasn’t,’ said Marilla drily. ‘I don’t approve of such goings-on. You seem to half believe your own imaginations. It will be well for you to have a real live friend to put such nonsense out of your head. But don’t let Mrs. Barry hear you talking about your Katie Maurices and your Violettas or she’ll think you tell stories.’
“我觉得没有也好，”玛丽拉冷冷地说。 ‘我不赞成这样的事情。你似乎半信半疑自己的想象力。如果你有一个真正的朋友能够把这些胡言乱语从你的脑海中赶走，那对你来说是件好事。但不要让巴里太太听到你谈论你的凯蒂·莫里斯和维奥莱塔，否则她会认为你在讲故事。

‘Oh, I won’t. I couldn’t talk of them to everybody—their memories are too sacred for that. But I thought I’d like to have you know about them. Oh, look, here’s a big bee just tumbled out of an apple blossom. Just think what a lovely place to live—in an apple blossom! Fancy going to sleep in it when the wind was rocking it. If I wasn’t a human girl I think I’d like to be a bee and live among the flowers.’
哦，我不会。我无法向每个人谈论他们——他们的记忆太神圣了。但我想我想让你了解它们。哦，看，这是一只大蜜蜂刚刚从苹果花里掉下来。想想看，这是一个多么可爱的居住地——在苹果花丛中！想象一下当风吹着它的时候睡在里面。如果我不是一个人类女孩，我想我想成为一只蜜蜂，生活在花丛中。”

‘Yesterday you wanted to be a sea gull,’ sniffed Marilla. ‘I think you are very fickle minded. I told you to learn that prayer and not talk. But it seems impossible for you to stop talking if you’ve got anybody that will listen to you. So go up to your room and learn it.’
“昨天你想成为一只海鸥，”玛丽拉嗤之以鼻。 ‘我觉得你的心思很善变。我告诉过你要学习祈祷而不是说话。但如果有人愿意听你说话，你似乎就不可能停止说话。所以去你的房间学习吧。

‘Oh, I know it pretty nearly all now—all but just the last line.’
“哦，我现在几乎都知道了——除了最后一行。”

‘Well, never mind, do as I tell you. Go to your room and finish learning it well, and stay there until I call you down to help me get tea.’
‘好吧，没关系，照我说的做吧。去你的房间好好学完，待在那里直到我叫你下来帮我倒茶。

‘Can I take the apple blossoms with me for company?’ pleaded Anne.
“我可以带着苹果花作伴吗？”安妮恳求道。

‘No; you don’t want your room cluttered up with flowers. You should have left them on the tree in the first place.’
'不;你不希望你的房间里堆满鲜花。你一开始就应该把它们留在树上。”

‘I did feel a little that way, too,’ said Anne. ‘I kind of felt I shouldn’t shorten their lovely lives by picking them—I wouldn’t want to be picked if I were an apple blossom. But the temptation was IRRESISTIBLE. What do you do when you meet with an irresistible temptation?’
“我确实也有一点这样的感觉，”安妮说。 “我觉得我不应该因为采摘它们而缩短它们可爱的生命——如果我是一朵苹果花，我就不想被采摘。”但诱惑是难以抗拒的。当你遇到不可抗拒的诱惑时你会怎么做？

‘Anne, did you hear me tell you to go to your room?’
“安妮，你听到我叫你去你的房间了吗？”

Anne sighed, retreated to the east gable, and sat down in a chair by the window.
安妮叹了口气，退到东山墙，在窗边的椅子上坐下。

‘There—I know this prayer. I learned that last sentence coming upstairs. Now I’m going to imagine things into this room so that they’ll always stay imagined. The floor is covered with a white velvet carpet with pink roses all over it and there are pink silk curtains at the windows. The walls are hung with gold and silver brocade tapestry. The furniture is mahogany. I never saw any mahogany, but it does sound SO luxurious. This is a couch all heaped with gorgeous silken cushions, pink and blue and crimson and gold, and I am reclining gracefully on it. I can see my reflection in that splendid big mirror hanging on the wall. I am tall and regal, clad in a gown of trailing white lace, with a pearl cross on my breast and pearls in my hair. My hair is of midnight darkness and my skin is a clear ivory pallor. My name is the Lady Cordelia Fitzgerald. No, it isn’t—I can’t make THAT seem real.’
‘瞧——我知道这个祷告。我从楼上得知最后一句话。现在我要把这个房间里的东西想象出来，这样它们就永远停留在想象中。地板上铺着白色的天鹅绒地毯，上面铺满了粉红色的玫瑰，窗户上挂着粉红色的丝绸窗帘。墙壁上挂着金银锦缎挂毯。家具是红木的。我从未见过桃花心木，但听起来确实很奢华。这是一张沙发，上面堆满了华丽的丝绸垫子，粉色、蓝色、深红色和金色，我优雅地斜靠在上面。我可以在墙上那面华丽的大镜子里看到自己的倒影。我身材高大，富丽堂皇，穿着白色拖尾蕾丝长袍，胸前戴着珍珠十字架，头发上戴着珍珠。我的头发是午夜的黑色，我的皮肤是清澈的象牙色苍白。我的名字是科迪莉亚·菲茨杰拉德夫人。不，事实并非如此——我不能让这看起来像真的。

She danced up to the little looking-glass and peered into it. Her pointed freckled face and solemn gray eyes peered back at her.
她跳到小镜子前，向里面凝视。她那张布满雀斑的尖脸和严肃的灰色眼睛凝视着她。

‘You’re only Anne of Green Gables,’ she said earnestly, ‘and I see you, just as you are looking now, whenever I try to imagine I’m the Lady Cordelia. But it’s a million times nicer to be Anne of Green Gables than Anne of nowhere in particular, isn’t it?’
“你只是绿山墙的安妮，”她真诚地说，“每当我试图想象自己是科迪莉亚夫人时，我就能看到你，就像你现在看到的那样。但成为绿山墙的安妮比成为无名小卒的安妮好一百万倍，不是吗？

She bent forward, kissed her reflection affectionately, and betook herself to the open window
她向前倾身，深情地吻了一下自己的倒影，然后走到开着的窗户前。

‘Dear Snow Queen, good afternoon. And good afternoon dear birches down in the hollow. And good afternoon, dear gray house up on the hill. I wonder if Diana is to be my bosom friend. I hope she will, and I shall love her very much. But I must never quite forget Katie Maurice and Violetta. They would feel so hurt if I did and I’d hate to hurt anybody’s feelings, even a little bookcase girl’s or a little echo girl’s. I must be careful to remember them and send them a kiss every day.’
“亲爱的雪之女王，下午好。下午好，山谷里亲爱的白桦树。下午好，山上亲爱的灰色房子。我想知道戴安娜是否会成为我的知己。我希望她会，我会非常爱她。但我永远不能完全忘记凯蒂·莫里斯和维奥莱塔。如果我这样做，他们会感到很受伤，而且我不想伤害任何人的感情，即使是一个小书柜女孩或一个小回声女孩的感情。我必须小心地记住他们，每天给他们一个吻。”

Anne blew a couple of airy kisses from her fingertips past the cherry blossoms and then, with her chin in her hands, drifted luxuriously out on a sea of daydreams.
安妮用指尖飞过樱花，轻轻地飞吻了几个，然后双手托着下巴，奢华地飘浮在白日梦的海洋中。

Chapter IX
第九章


Mrs. Rachel Lynde Is Properly Horrified
雷切尔·林德夫人确实感到害怕

Anne had been a fortnight at Green Gables before Mrs. Lynde arrived to inspect her. Mrs. Rachel, to do her justice, was not to blame for this. A severe and unseason -able attack of grippe had confined that good lady to her house ever since the occasion of her last visit to Green Gables. Mrs. Rachel was not often sick and had a welldefined contempt for people who were; but grippe, she asserted, was like no other illness on earth and could only be interpreted as one of the special visitations of Providence. As soon as her doctor allowed her to put her foot out-of-doors she hurried up to Green Gables, bursting with curiosity to see Matthew and Marilla’s orphan, concerning whom all sorts of stories and suppositions had gone abroad in Avonlea.
林德夫人来检查安妮之前，她已经在绿山墙呆了两周了。公平地说，雷切尔夫人不应为此承担责任。自从上次访问绿山墙以来，一场严重的、不合时令的流行性感冒发作使这位好女士一直待在家里。雷切尔夫人并不经常生病，而且对生病的人怀有明显的蔑视。但她断言，流行性感冒与地球上任何其他疾病都不一样，只能被解释为上帝的特殊降临之一。医生一允许她出门，她就急忙赶到绿山墙，满怀好奇地想看看马修和玛丽拉的孤儿，关于他的各种故事和猜测已经在埃文利流传开来。

Anne had made good use of every waking moment of that fortnight. Already she was acquainted with every tree and shrub about the place. She had discovered that a lane opened out below the apple orchard and ran up through a belt of woodland; and she had explored it to its furthest end in all its delicious vagaries of brook and bridge, fir coppice and wild cherry arch, corners thick with fern, and branching byways of maple and mountain ash.
安妮充分利用了这两周的每一个醒着的时刻。她已经熟悉了这个地方的每一棵树和灌木。她发现苹果园下面有一条小路，穿过一片林地向上延伸。她已经探索到了它的最远的尽头，那里有小溪和桥梁、冷杉灌木丛和野樱桃拱门、长满蕨类植物的角落、枫树和山梣树的分支小道，所有奇妙的变幻莫测。

She had made friends with the spring down in the hollow— that wonderful deep, clear icy-cold spring; it was set about with smooth red sandstones and rimmed in by great palm-like clumps of water fern; and beyond it was a log bridge over the brook.
她和山谷里的泉水成了朋友——那美妙的深泉、清澈的冰冷泉水；它周围铺着光滑的红色砂岩，周围是大片棕榈状的水蕨丛。远处是小溪上的一座独木桥。

That bridge led Anne’s dancing feet up over a wooded hill beyond, where perpetual twilight reigned under the straight, thick-growing firs and spruces; the only flowers there were myriads of delicate ‘June bells,’ those shyest and sweetest of woodland blooms, and a few pale, aerial starflowers, like the spirits of last year’s blossoms. Gossamers glimmered like threads of silver among the trees and the fir boughs and tassels seemed to utter friendly speech.
那座桥引导着安妮舞动的双脚越过远处树木繁茂的小山，那里永远的暮色笼罩着笔直、茂密的冷杉和云杉。唯一的花朵是无数精致的“六月钟声”，那些最害羞、最甜美的林地花朵，还有一些苍白的空中星花，就像去年花朵的精灵。薄纱在树林中闪闪发光，像银丝一样，冷杉的树枝和流苏似乎在说着友好的话。

All these raptured voyages of exploration were made in the odd half hours which she was allowed for play, and Anne talked Matthew and Marilla halfdeaf over her discoveries. Not that Matthew complained, to be sure; he listened to it all with a wordless smile of enjoyment on his face; Marilla permitted the ‘chatter’ until she found herself becoming too interested in it, whereupon she always promptly quenched Anne by a curt command to hold her tongue.
所有这些令人兴奋的探索之旅都是在她被允许玩耍的零星半个小时内完成的，安妮对她的发现充耳不闻地与马修和玛丽拉交谈。可以肯定的是，马修并不是在抱怨。他听着这一切，脸上挂着无言的享受的微笑。玛丽拉允许她“喋喋不休”，直到她发现自己对此太感兴趣了，于是她总是立即简短地命令安妮不要说话，以此来打压她。

Anne was out in the orchard when Mrs. Rachel came, wandering at her own sweet will through the lush, tremulous grasses splashed with ruddy evening sunshine; so that good lady had an excellent chance to talk her illness fully over, describing every ache and pulse beat with such evident enjoyment that Marilla thought even grippe must bring its compensations. When details were exhausted Mrs. Rachel introduced the real reason of her call.
雷切尔太太来的时候，安妮正在果园里，她随心所欲地在茂盛、颤动的草地上漫步，草地上洒满了红润的晚霞。这样，这位善良的女士就有了一个绝佳的机会来详细地谈论她的病情，用如此明显的乐趣描述每一次疼痛和脉搏，以至于玛丽拉认为即使是流行性感冒也必须带来它的补偿。当详细信息耗尽后，雷切尔夫人介绍了她打电话的真正原因。

‘I’ve been hearing some surprising things about you and Matthew.’
“我听到了一些关于你和马修的令人惊讶的事情。”

‘I don’t suppose you are any more surprised than I am myself,’ said Marilla. ‘I’m getting over my surprise now.’
“我想你不会比我自己更惊讶，”玛丽拉说。 “我现在已经克服了惊讶。”

‘It was too bad there was such a mistake,’ said Mrs. Rachel sympathetically. ‘Couldn’t you have sent her back?’
“发生这样的错误真是太糟糕了，”雷切尔夫人同情地说。 “你就不能把她送回去吗？”

‘I suppose we could, but we decided not to. Matthew took a fancy to her. And I must say I like her myself— although I admit she has her faults. The house seems a different place already. She’s a real bright little thing.’
“我想我们可以，但我们决定不这样做。马修很喜欢她。我必须说我自己也喜欢她——尽管我承认她有缺点。这房子似乎已经是另一个地方了。她真是个聪明的小东西。

Marilla said more than she had intended to say when she began, for she read disapproval in Mrs. Rachel’s expression.
玛丽拉说的比她开始时想说的要多，因为她从雷切尔夫人的表情中看出了不满。

‘It’s a great responsibility you’ve taken on yourself,’ said that lady gloomily, ‘especially when you’ve never had any experience with children. You don’t know much about her or her real disposition, I suppose, and there’s no guessing how a child like that will turn out. But I don’t want to discourage you I’m sure, Marilla.’
“你为自己承担了很大的责任，”那位女士郁闷地说，“尤其是当你从未有过带孩子的经验时。我想你对她或她的真实性格了解不多，而且无法猜测这样的孩子会变成什么样子。但我确信我不想让你灰心，玛丽拉。”

‘I’m not feeling discouraged,’ was Marilla’s dry response. ‘when I make up my mind to do a thing it stays made up. I suppose you’d like to see Anne. I’ll call her in.’
“我并没有感到灰心。”玛丽拉干巴巴地回答道。 ‘当我下定决心要做一件事时，它就会一直下定决心。我想你想见安妮。我会叫她进来的。

Anne came running in presently, her face sparkling with the delight of her orchard rovings; but, abashed at finding the delight herself in the unexpected presence of a stranger, she halted confusedly inside the door. She certainly was an odd-looking little creature in the short tight wincey dress she had worn from the asylum, below which her thin legs seemed ungracefully long. Her freckles were more numerous and obtrusive than ever; the wind had ruffled her hatless hair into over-brilliant disorder; it had never looked redder than at that moment.
不久，安妮跑了进来，她的脸因果园漫游的喜悦而闪闪发光。但是，她为自己在陌生人的意外出现中找到乐趣而感到羞愧，困惑地在门内停了下来。穿着从疯人院出来时穿的紧身短裙，她确实是个看上去很奇怪的小东西，裙子下面她的细腿显得长得不雅观。她的雀斑比以往任何时候都更多、更引人注目。风把她没戴帽子的头发吹得乱七八糟。它从来没有比那一刻更红过。

‘Well, they didn’t pick you for your looks, that’s sure and certain,’ was Mrs. Rachel Lynde’s emphatic comment. Mrs. Rachel was one of those delightful and popular people who pride themselves on speaking their mind without fear or favor. ‘She’s terrible skinny and homely, Marilla. Come here, child, and let me have a look at you. Lawful heart, did any one ever see such freckles? And hair as red as carrots! Come here, child, I say.’
“好吧，他们并不是因为你的外表而选你的，这是肯定的，”雷切尔·林德夫人强调道。雷切尔夫人是那些令人愉快、受欢迎的人之一，她以不畏惧、不偏袒地表达自己的想法而自豪。 “她骨瘦如柴，相貌平平，玛丽拉。过来，孩子，让我看看你。遵纪守法的心，有谁见过这样的雀斑吗？头发像胡萝卜一样红！到这里来，孩子，我说。

Anne ‘came there,’ but not exactly as Mrs. Rachel expected. With one bound she crossed the kitchen floor and stood before Mrs. Rachel, her face scarlet with anger, her lips quivering, and her whole slender form trembling from head to foot.
安妮“来到了那里”，但并不完全像雷切尔夫人所期望的那样。她一跃穿过厨房的地板，站在雷切尔太太面前，她的脸气得通红，嘴唇颤抖，整个苗条的身躯从头到脚都在颤抖。

‘I hate you,’ she cried in a choked voice, stamping her foot on the floor. ‘I hate you—I hate you—I hate you—‘ a louder stamp with each assertion of hatred. ‘How dare you call me skinny and ugly? How dare you say I’m freckled and redheaded? You are a rude, impolite, unfeeling woman!’
“我恨你，”她用一只脚跺在地板上，用哽咽的声音喊道。 “我恨你——我恨你——我恨你——”每一次表达仇恨，都会发出更大的声音。 ‘你怎么敢说我又瘦又丑？你怎么敢说我有雀斑和红发？你是一个粗鲁、无礼、无情的女人！

‘Anne!’ exclaimed Marilla in consternation.
“安妮！”玛丽拉惊愕地叫道。

But Anne continued to face Mrs. Rachel undauntedly, head up, eyes blazing, hands clenched, passionate indignation exhaling from her like an atmosphere.
但安妮依然毫不畏惧地面对着雷切尔夫人，昂首挺胸，目光炽热，双手紧握，一股浓浓的愤慨从她身上散发出来，如同大气一般。

‘How dare you say such things about me?’ she repeated vehemently. ‘How would you like to have such things said about you? How would you like to be told that you are fat and clumsy and probably hadn’t a spark of imagination in you? I don’t care if I do hurt your feelings by saying so! I hope I hurt them. You have hurt mine worse than they were ever hurt before even by Mrs. Thomas’ intoxicated husband. And I’ll NEVER forgive you for it, never, never!’
“你怎么敢这么说我？”她激烈地重复道。 ‘你希望别人对你说这样的话吗？你希望别人告诉你你又胖又笨，而且可能没有一点想象力的火花吗？我不在乎我这样说是否会伤害你的感情！我希望我伤害了他们。你对我的伤害比他们以前受到的伤害还要严重，甚至是托马斯夫人醉酒的丈夫所伤害的。我永远不会原谅你，永远，永远！

Stamp! Stamp!
邮票！邮票！

‘Did anybody ever see such a temper!’ exclaimed the horrified Mrs. Rachel.
“谁见过这么脾气的人！”雷切尔太太惊恐地喊道。

‘Anne go to your room and stay there until I come up,’ said Marilla, recovering her powers of speech with difficulty.
“安妮去你的房间，呆在那里直到我上来。”玛丽拉艰难地恢复了说话的能力。

Anne, bursting into tears, rushed to the hall door, slammed it until the tins on the porch wall outside rattled in sympathy, and fled through the hall and up the stairs like a whirlwind. A subdued slam above told that the door of the east gable had been shut with equal vehemence.
安妮泪流满面，冲到大厅门口，关上门，直到外面门廊墙上的罐子发出同情的声音，然后像旋风一样逃离大厅，爬上楼梯。上方传来一声微弱的撞击声，表明东山墙的门也同样猛烈地关上了。

‘Well, I don’t envy you your job bringing THAT up, Marilla,’ said Mrs. Rachel with unspeakable solemnity.
“好吧，我并不羡慕你提出这个问题的工作，玛丽拉，”雷切尔夫人带着难以言表的严肃说道。

Marilla opened her lips to say she knew not what of apology or deprecation. What she did say was a surprise to herself then and ever afterwards.
玛丽拉张开双唇，表示她不知道该道歉还是不赞成。她所说的话让当时和以后的自己都感到惊讶。

‘You shouldn’t have twitted her about her looks, Rachel.’
“你不应该因为她的外表而取笑她，雷切尔。”

‘Marilla Cuthbert, you don’t mean to say that you are upholding her in such a terrible display of temper as we’ve just seen?’ demanded Mrs. Rachel indignantly.
“玛丽拉·库斯伯特，你不是说你在支持她，就像我们刚才看到的那样，表现出如此可怕的脾气吗？”雷切尔夫人愤怒地问道。

‘No,’ said Marilla slowly, ‘I’m not trying to excuse her. She’s been very naughty and I’ll have to give her a talking to about it. But we must make allowances for her. She’s never been taught what is right. And you WERE too hard on her, Rachel.’
“不，”玛丽拉慢慢地说，“我并不是想原谅她。她非常顽皮，我得跟她谈谈这件事。但我们必须体谅她。她从来没有被教导什么是正确的。雷切尔，你对她太严厉了。”

Marilla could not help tacking on that last sentence, although she was again surprised at herself for doing it. Mrs. Rachel got up with an air of offended dignity.
玛丽拉忍不住补充了最后一句话，尽管她再次对自己这么做感到惊讶。雷切尔夫人站起身来，脸上带着一种被冒犯的尊严。

‘Well, I see that I’ll have to be very careful what I say after this, Marilla, since the fine feelings of orphans, brought from goodness knows where, have to be considered before anything else. Oh, no, I’m not vexed—don’t worry yourself. I’m too sorry for you to leave any room for anger in my mind. You’ll have your own troubles with that child. But if you’ll take my advice—which I suppose you won’t do, although I’ve brought up ten children and buried two—you’ll do that ‘talking to’ you mention with a fairsized birch switch. I should think THAT would be the most effective language for that kind of a child. Her temper matches her hair I guess. Well, good evening, Marilla. I hope you’ll come down to see me often as usual. But you can’t expect me to visit here again in a hurry, if I’m liable to be flown at and insulted in such a fashion. It’s something new in MY experience.’
“好吧，我知道我以后说话必须非常小心，玛丽拉，因为孤儿们的美好感情，天知道从哪里带来的，必须首先考虑。哦，不，我不烦恼——你别担心。我很抱歉你不能在我的心中留下任何愤怒的余地。你和那个孩子也会有你自己的麻烦。但如果你接受我的建议——我想你不会这么做，尽管我养育了十个孩子并埋葬了两个——你就会用一根相当大的桦树开关来“说话”。我认为这对于那种孩子来说是最有效的语言。我猜她的脾气和她的头发很配。嗯，晚上好，玛丽拉。我希望你能像往常一样经常来看我。但你不能指望我会匆忙再次来到这里，因为我很容易受到这样的攻击和侮辱。这对我的经历来说是新鲜事。

Whereat Mrs. Rachel swept out and away—if a fat woman who always waddled COULD be said to sweep away—and Marilla with a very solemn face betook herself to the east gable.
雷切尔太太一扫而去——如果一个总是摇摇晃晃的胖女人也可以说是扫走了——而玛丽拉则一脸严肃地走向东山墙。

On the way upstairs she pondered uneasily as to what she ought to do. She felt no little dismay over the scene that had just been enacted. How unfortunate that Anne should have displayed such temper before Mrs. Rachel Lynde, of all people! Then Marilla suddenly became aware of an uncomfortable and rebuking consciousness that she felt more humiliation over this than sorrow over the discovery of such a serious defect in Anne’s disposition. And how was she to punish her? The amiable suggestion of the birch switch—to the efficiency of which all of Mrs. Rachel’s own children could have borne smarting testimony— did not appeal to Marilla. She did not believe she could whip a child. No, some other method of punishment must be found to bring Anne to a proper realization of the enormity of her offense.
上楼的路上，她不安地思考着自己应该做什么。对于刚刚发生的一幕，她感到不小的沮丧。安妮在雷切尔·林德夫人面前表现出这样的脾气是多么不幸啊！然后玛丽拉突然意识到一种不舒服和责备的意识，她对此感到更多的是羞辱，而不是发现安妮性格中如此严重的缺陷的悲伤。而她该如何惩罚她呢？桦树开关的友善建议——雷切尔夫人自己的所有孩子都可以见证其有效性——并没有吸引玛丽拉。她不相信自己能鞭打一个孩子。不，必须找到其他惩罚方法，让安妮正确认识到她所犯下的罪行的严重性。

Marilla found Anne face downward on her bed, crying bitterly, quite oblivious of muddy boots on a clean counterpane.
玛丽拉发现安妮脸朝下躺在床上，痛苦地哭泣，完全忘记了干净的床单上沾满泥的靴子。

‘Anne,’ she said not ungently.
“安妮，”她毫不客气地说。

No answer.
没有答案。

‘Anne,’ with greater severity, ‘get off that bed this minute and listen to what I have to say to you.’
“安妮，”更加严厉地说道，“现在就起床，听听我要对你说的话。”

Anne squirmed off the bed and sat rigidly on a chair beside it, her face swollen and tear-stained and her eyes fixed stubbornly on the floor.
安妮从床上爬起来，僵硬地坐在床边的椅子上，脸肿胀，泪痕累累，眼睛死死地盯着地板。

‘This is a nice way for you to behave. Anne! Aren’t you ashamed of yourself?’
‘这对你来说是一种很好的行为方式。安妮！你不为自己感到羞耻吗？

‘She hadn’t any right to call me ugly and redheaded,’ retorted Anne, evasive and defiant.
“她没有权利说我丑陋和红发，”安妮反驳道，语气闪烁而挑衅。

‘You hadn’t any right to fly into such a fury and talk the way you did to her, Anne. I was ashamed of you— thoroughly ashamed of you. I wanted you to behave nicely to Mrs. Lynde, and instead of that you have disgraced me. I’m sure I don’t know why you should lose your temper like that just because Mrs. Lynde said you were redhaired and homely. You say it yourself often enough.’
“安妮，你没有权利如此愤怒地对她说话。我为你感到羞耻——彻底为你感到羞耻。我希望你对林德太太表现得友善，但你却让我蒙羞。我确信我不知道你为什么要因为林德太太说你红发、相貌丑陋而发这样的脾气。你自己也经常这么说。

‘Oh, but there’s such a difference between saying a thing yourself and hearing other people say it,’ wailed Anne. ‘You may know a thing is so, but you can’t help hoping other people don’t quite think it is. I suppose you think I have an awful temper, but I couldn’t help it. When she said those things something just rose right up in me and choked me. I HAD to fly out at her.’
“哦，但是你自己说的话和听别人说的话有很大的不同，”安妮哀叹道。 “你可能知道事情是这样的，但你会情不自禁地希望其他人不这么认为。我猜你认为我脾气很坏，但我就是控制不住。当她说这些话时，我的内心突然升起一股让我窒息的感觉。我不得不飞向她。

‘Well, you made a fine exhibition of yourself I must say. Mrs. Lynde will have a nice story to tell about you everywhere—and she’ll tell it, too. It was a dreadful thing for you to lose your temper like that, Anne.’
“嗯，我必须说，你很好地展示了自己。林德夫人到处都会有一个关于你的好故事——她也会讲。安妮，你这样发脾气是一件可怕的事情。

‘Just imagine how you would feel if somebody told you to your face that you were skinny and ugly,’ pleaded Anne tearfully.
“想象一下，如果有人当面告诉你，你又瘦又丑，你会有什么感觉，”安妮泪流满面地恳求道。

An old remembrance suddenly rose up before Marilla. She had been a very small child when she had heard one aunt say of her to another, ‘What a pity she is such a dark, homely little thing.’ Marilla was every day of fifty before the sting had gone out of that memory.
玛丽拉的脑海中突然浮现出一段往事。当她还是个很小的孩子时，她听到一位阿姨对另一位阿姨说起她：“真可惜，她是个如此黑暗、相貌平庸的小东西。”玛丽拉每天都五十岁了，直到刺痛从记忆中消失。

‘I don’t say that I think Mrs. Lynde was exactly right in saying what she did to you, Anne,’ she admitted in a softer tone. ‘Rachel is too outspoken. But that is no excuse for such behavior on your part. She was a stranger and an elderly person and my visitor—all three very good reasons why you should have been respectful to her. You were rude and saucy and’—Marilla had a saving inspiration of punishment—‘you must go to her and tell her you are very sorry for your bad temper and ask her to forgive you.’
“我并不是说我认为林德夫人对你所做的事情是完全正确的，安妮，”她用更柔和的语气承认。 ‘雷切尔太直言不讳了。但这并不能成为你做出此类行为的借口。她是一个陌生人，一个老人，也是我的访客——这三个都是你应该尊重她的充分理由。你既粗鲁又无礼，而且”——玛丽拉有了惩罚的拯救灵感——“你必须去找她，告诉她你对你的坏脾气感到非常抱歉，并请求她原谅你。”

‘I can never do that,’ said Anne determinedly and darkly. ‘You can punish me in any way you like, Marilla. You can shut me up in a dark, damp dungeon inhabited by snakes and toads and feed me only on bread and water and I shall not complain. But I cannot ask Mrs. Lynde to forgive me.’
“我永远做不到。”安妮坚定而阴沉地说。 “你可以用任何你喜欢的方式惩罚我，玛丽拉。你可以把我关在一个黑暗、潮湿、蛇和蟾蜍居住的地牢里，只给我吃面包和水，我也不会抱怨。但我不能请求林德夫人原谅我。

‘We’re not in the habit of shutting people up in dark damp dungeons,’ said Marilla drily, ‘especially as they’re rather scarce in Avonlea. But apologize to Mrs. Lynde you must and shall and you’ll stay here in your room until you can tell me you’re willing to do it.’
“我们没有把人关在阴暗潮湿的地牢里的习惯，”玛丽拉冷冷地说，“尤其是在埃文利，这样的人相当稀少。”但是向林德夫人道歉，你必须而且应该，你会呆在你的房间里，直到你告诉我你愿意这样做。

‘I shall have to stay here forever then,’ said Anne mournfully, ‘because I can’t tell Mrs. Lynde I’m sorry I said those things to her. How can I? I’m NOT sorry. I’m sorry I’ve vexed you; but I’m GLAD I told her just what I did. It was a great satisfaction. I can’t say I’m sorry when I’m not, can I? I can’t even IMAGINE I’m sorry.’
“那我就得永远留在这里了，”安妮悲伤地说，“因为我不能告诉林德太太，我很抱歉对她说了那些话。我怎么能够？我不遗憾。很抱歉让你烦恼了；但我很高兴我告诉了她我所做的事情。这是一种极大的满足。当我不道歉时，我不能说对不起，不是吗？我什至无法想象我很抱歉。

‘Perhaps your imagination will be in better working order by the morning,’ said Marilla, rising to depart. ‘You’ll have the night to think over your conduct in and come to a better frame of mind. You said you would try to be a very good girl if we kept you at Green Gables, but I must say it hasn’t seemed very much like it this evening.’
“也许到早上你的想象力就会更好地发挥作用，”玛丽拉说，起身准备离开。 “你将有一个晚上来思考自己的行为，并获得更好的心态。你说过，如果我们把你留在绿山墙，你会努力成为一个非常好的女孩，但我必须说，今晚的情况看起来不太像。

Leaving this Parthian shaft to rankle in Anne’s stormy bosom, Marilla descended to the kitchen, grievously troubled in mind and vexed in soul. She was as angry with herself as with Anne, because, whenever she recalled Mrs. Rachel’s dumbfounded countenance her lips twitched with amusement and she felt a most reprehensible desire to laugh.
玛丽拉把这根帕提亚式的竖井留在安妮暴风雨般的怀抱中，她下楼来到厨房，心里极度烦恼，灵魂烦恼。她对自己和对安妮一样生气，因为每当她想起雷切尔夫人目瞪口呆的表情时，她的嘴唇都会因有趣而抽动，她感到一种最应受谴责的想笑的欲望。

Chapter X
第十章


Anne’s Apology
安妮的道歉

Marilla said nothing to Matthew about the affair that evening; but when Anne proved still refractory the next morning an explanation had to be made to account for her absence from the breakfast table. Marilla told Matthew the whole story, taking pains to impress him with a due sense of the enormity of Anne’s behavior.
那天晚上，玛丽拉没有向马修提及这件事。但第二天早上，当安妮仍然难以控制时，必须对她缺席早餐桌做出解释。玛丽拉向马修讲述了整个故事，并煞费苦心地让他对安妮行为的严重性产生应有的认识。

‘It’s a good thing Rachel Lynde got a calling down; she’s a meddlesome old gossip,’ was Matthew’s consolatory rejoinder.
“雷切尔·林德接到电话是一件好事； “她是个爱管闲事的老八卦。”马修安慰性地反驳道。

‘Matthew Cuthbert, I’m astonished at you. You know that Anne’s behavior was dreadful, and yet you take her part! I suppose you’ll be saying next thing that she oughtn’t to be punished at all!’
“马修·库斯伯特，我对你感到惊讶。你知道安妮的行为很可怕，但你还是支持了她！我想你接下来会说她根本不应该受到惩罚！

‘Well now—no—not exactly,’ said Matthew uneasily. I reckon she ought to be punished a little. But don’t be too hard on her, Marilla. Recollect she hasn’t ever had anyone to teach her right. You’re—you’re going to give her something to eat, aren’t you?’
“好吧——不——不完全是，”马修不安地说。我觉得她应该受到一点惩罚。但别对她太严厉，玛丽拉。回想一下，她从来没有人教过她正确的做法。你——你要给她吃的，不是吗？

‘When did you ever hear of me starving people into good behavior?’ demanded Marilla indignantly. ‘She’ll have her meals regular, and I’ll carry them up to her myself. But she’ll stay up there until she’s willing to apologize to Mrs. Lynde, and that’s final, Matthew.’
“你什么时候听说过我让人们挨饿，让他们养成良好的行为？”玛丽拉愤怒地问道。 “她会定期吃饭，我会亲自给她端饭。”但她会一直呆在那里，直到她愿意向林德夫人道歉，这是最终的决定，马修。”

Breakfast, dinner, and supper were very silent meals—for Anne still remained obdurate. After each meal Marilla carried a well-filled tray to the east gable and brought it down later on not noticeably depleted. Matthew eyed its last descent with a troubled eye. Had Anne eaten anything at all?
早餐、晚餐和晚饭都是非常安静的三餐——因为安妮仍然固执己见。每顿饭后，玛丽拉都会把一个装满食物的托盘带到东山墙，然后再把它拿下来，但托盘上的食物并没有明显耗尽。马修用不安的眼神看着它的最后一次下降。安妮到底吃过什么东西吗？

When Marilla went out that evening to bring the cows from the back pasture, Matthew, who had been hanging about the barns and watching, slipped into the house with the air of a burglar and crept upstairs. As a general thing Matthew gravitated between the kitchen and the little bedroom off the hall where he slept; once in a while he ventured uncomfortably into the parlor or sitting room when the minister came to tea. But he had never been upstairs in his own house since the spring he helped Marilla paper the spare bedroom, and that was four years ago.
那天晚上，当玛丽拉出去把奶牛从后面的牧场牵出来时，一直在谷仓周围观察的马修像窃贼一样溜进了房子，蹑手蹑脚地爬上了楼。一般来说，马修总是在厨房和他睡觉的大厅外的小卧室之间徘徊。偶尔，当部长来喝茶时，他会不舒服地冒险走进客厅或客厅。但自从四年前春天他帮助玛丽拉给空余的卧室贴上报纸以来，他就再也没有上过自己房子的楼上。

He tiptoed along the hall and stood for several minutes outside the door of the east gable before he summoned courage to tap on it with his fingers and then open the door to peep in.
他蹑手蹑脚地沿着大厅，在东山墙门外站了几分钟，才鼓起勇气用手指敲了敲门，然后打开门往里看。

Anne was sitting on the yellow chair by the window gazing mournfully out into the garden. Very small and unhappy she looked, and Matthew’s heart smote him. He softly closed the door and tiptoed over to her.
安妮坐在窗边的黄色椅子上，悲伤地凝视着外面的花园。她看起来很小，而且很不高兴，马修的心猛地一跳。他轻轻关上门，蹑手蹑脚地走到她身边。

‘Anne,’ he whispered, as if afraid of being overheard, ‘how are you making it, Anne?’
“安妮，”他低声说道，仿佛害怕被人听见，“安妮，你过得怎么样？”

Anne smiled wanly.
安妮苍白地笑了笑。

‘Pretty well. I imagine a good deal, and that helps to pass the time. Of course, it’s rather lonesome. But then, I may as well get used to that.’
'很不错。我想象很多，这有助于打发时间。当然，这是比较孤独的。但那样的话，我也可能会习惯这一点。

Anne smiled again, bravely facing the long years of solitary imprisonment before her.
安妮再次微笑，勇敢地面对眼前多年的孤独监禁。

Matthew recollected that he must say what he had come to say without loss of time, lest Marilla return prematurely. ‘Well now, Anne, don’t you think you’d better do it and have it over with?’ he whispered. ‘It’ll have to be done sooner or later, you know, for Marilla’s a dreadful determined woman—dreadful determined, Anne. Do it right off, I say, and have it over.’
马修想起来，他必须抓紧时间说完自己要说的话，免得玛丽拉过早回来。 “好吧，安妮，你不觉得最好还是把这件事结束吧？”他低声说道。 “你知道，这件事迟早必须完成，因为玛丽拉是一个可怕的、意志坚定的女人——意志坚定得可怕，安妮。我说，马上做，然后就结束了。

‘Do you mean apologize to Mrs. Lynde?’
“你的意思是向林德夫人道歉吗？”

‘Yes—apologize—that’s the very word,’ said Matthew eagerly. ‘Just smooth it over so to speak. That’s what I was trying to get at.’
“是的——道歉——就是这个词，”马修急切地说。 '可以这么说，把它弄平。这就是我想要达到的目的。

‘I suppose I could do it to oblige you,’ said Anne thoughtfully. ‘It would be true enough to say I am sorry, because I AM sorry now. I wasn’t a bit sorry last night. I was mad clear through, and I stayed mad all night. I know I did because I woke up three times and I was just furious every time. But this morning it was over. I wasn’t in a temper anymore—and it left a dreadful sort of goneness, too. I felt so ashamed of myself. But I just couldn’t think of going and telling Mrs. Lynde so. It would be so humiliating. I made up my mind I’d stay shut up here forever rather than do that. But still—I’d do anything for you—if you really want me to—‘
“我想我可以尽力满足你的要求，”安妮若有所思地说。 “说对不起就足够真实了，因为我现在很抱歉。昨晚我一点儿也不后悔。我彻底疯了，而且整个晚上都在生气。我知道我做到了，因为我醒了三次，每次我都很愤怒。但今天早上一切都结束了。我不再发脾气了——而且也留下了一种可怕的失落感。我为自己感到羞愧。但我就是想不起去告诉林德太太这一点。那就太丢人了。我决定永远关在这里，而不是那样做。但尽管如此——我愿意为你做任何事——如果你真的希望我这么做的话——”

‘Well now, of course I do. It’s terrible lonesome downstairs without you. Just go and smooth things over— that’s a good girl.’
‘现在，我当然知道了。没有你在楼下真是太孤独了。去把事情搞平吧——那是个好女孩。”

‘Very well,’ said Anne resignedly. ‘I’ll tell Marilla as soon as she comes in I’ve repented.’
“很好，”安妮无奈地说。 “玛丽拉一进来我就会告诉她我已经悔改了。”

‘That’s right—that’s right, Anne. But don’t tell Marilla I said anything about it. She might think I was putting my oar in and I promised not to do that.’
‘是的——是的，安妮。但不要告诉玛丽拉我说过任何关于这件事的事情。她可能认为我正在划桨，而我保证不会这样做。

‘Wild horses won’t drag the secret from me,’ promised Anne solemnly. ‘How would wild horses drag a secret from a person anyhow?’
“野马不会把这个秘密从我身边夺走，”安妮郑重地保证。 “野马怎么可能从一个人身上夺走秘密呢？”

But Matthew was gone, scared at his own success. He fled hastily to the remotest corner of the horse pasture lest Marilla should suspect what he had been up to. Marilla herself, upon her return to the house, was agreeably surprised to hear a plaintive voice calling, ‘Marilla’ over the banisters.
但马修却离开了，他对自己的成功感到害怕。他匆忙逃到马牧场最偏僻的角落，以免玛丽拉怀疑他的所作所为。玛丽拉回到家后，惊讶地听到栏杆上方有一个哀怨的声音喊道：“玛丽拉”。

‘Well?’ she said, going into the hall.
“怎么样？”她一边说，一边走进大厅。

‘I’m sorry I lost my temper and said rude things, and I’m willing to go and tell Mrs. Lynde so.’
“我很抱歉我发脾气并说了粗鲁的话，我愿意去告诉林德夫人。”

‘Very well.’ Marilla’s crispness gave no sign of her relief. She had been wondering what under the canopy she should do if Anne did not give in. ‘I’ll take you down after milking.’
“很好。”玛丽拉的干脆利落并没有让她松一口气的迹象。她一直在想，如果安妮不屈服，她应该在天篷下做什么。“挤奶后我会把你带下去。”

Accordingly, after milking, behold Marilla and Anne walking down the lane, the former erect and triumphant, the latter drooping and dejected. But halfway down Anne’s dejection vanished as if by enchantment. She lifted her head and stepped lightly along, her eyes fixed on the sunset sky and an air of subdued exhilaration about her. Marilla beheld the change disapprovingly. This was no meek penitent such as it behooved her to take into the presence of the offended Mrs. Lynde.
因此，挤完奶后，玛丽拉和安妮沿着小巷走着，前者昂首阔步，得意洋洋，后者垂头丧气，垂头丧气。但走到一半，安妮的沮丧仿佛着了魔一样消失了。她抬起头，迈着轻快的步伐，目光注视着夕阳的天空，浑身上下透着一股压抑的兴奋。玛丽拉不满地看着这一变化。这可不是温顺的忏悔，她应该在被冒犯的林德夫人面前接受这种忏悔。

‘What are you thinking of, Anne?’ she asked sharply.
“安妮，你在想什么？”她尖锐地问道。

‘I’m imagining out what I must say to Mrs. Lynde,’ answered Anne dreamily.
“我正在想象我该对林德太太说些什么。”安妮若有所思地回答道。

This was satisfactory—or should have been so. But Marilla could not rid herself of the notion that something in her scheme of punishment was going askew. Anne had no business to look so rapt and radiant.
这是令人满意的——或者说应该如此。但玛丽拉无法摆脱这样的想法：她的惩罚计划中有些东西出了问题。安妮没必要显得如此全神贯注、容光焕发。

Rapt and radiant Anne continued until they were in the very presence of Mrs. Lynde, who was sitting knitting by her kitchen window. Then the radiance vanished. Mournful penitence appeared on every feature. Before a word was spoken Anne suddenly went down on her knees before the astonished Mrs. Rachel and held out her hands beseechingly.
安妮全神贯注、容光焕发地继续说着，直到林德太太出现在他们面前，林德太太正坐在厨房的窗边织毛衣。然后光芒消失了。每一个面容上都流露出悲痛的悔罪之情。一句话还没说完，安妮突然跪倒在惊愕的雷切尔夫人面前，恳求地伸出双手。

‘Oh, Mrs. Lynde, I am so extremely sorry,’ she said with a quiver in her voice. ‘I could never express all my sorrow, no, not if I used up a whole dictionary. You must just imagine it. I behaved terribly to you—and I’ve disgraced the dear friends, Matthew and Marilla, who have let me stay at Green Gables although I’m not a boy. I’m a dreadfully wicked and ungrateful girl, and I deserve to be punished and cast out by respectable people forever. It was very wicked of me to fly into a temper because you told me the truth. It WAS the truth; every word you said was true. My hair is red and I’m freckled and skinny and ugly. What I said to you was true, too, but I shouldn’t have said it. Oh, Mrs. Lynde, please, please, forgive me. If you refuse it will be a lifelong sorrow on a poor little orphan girl would you, even if she had a dreadful temper? Oh, I am sure you wouldn’t. Please say you forgive me, Mrs. Lynde.’
“哦，林德夫人，我非常抱歉，”她声音颤抖地说。 “我永远无法表达我所有的悲伤，不，即使我用完了整本字典，我也无法表达我的悲伤。”你必须想象一下。我对你的行为太糟糕了——我让亲爱的朋友马修和玛丽拉蒙羞了，尽管我不是男孩，他们还是让我留在绿山墙。我是一个极其邪恶和忘恩负义的女孩，我应该受到可敬的人的惩罚和永远的驱逐。我因为你告诉了我真相就发脾气，这真是太邪恶了。这是事实；你说的每一句话都是真的。我的头发是红色的，我有雀斑，骨瘦如柴，丑陋。我对你说的也是实话，但我不应该说。哦，林德夫人，请原谅我。如果你拒绝的话，这对一个可怜的小孤女来说将是一生的悲伤，即使她脾气很坏，你会吗？哦，我相信你不会。请说你原谅我，林德夫人。

Anne clasped her hands together, bowed her head, and waited for the word of judgment.
安妮双手合十，低下头，等待着判决的声音。

There was no mistaking her sincerity—it breathed in every tone of her voice. Both Marilla and Mrs. Lynde recognized its unmistakable ring. But the former understood in dismay that Anne was actually enjoying her valley of humiliation—was reveling in the thoroughness of her abasement. Where was the wholesome punishment upon which she, Marilla, had plumed herself? Anne had turned it into a species of positive pleasure.
毫无疑问，她的真诚体现在她的每一个语气中。玛丽拉和林德夫人都认出了这枚毫无疑问的戒指。但前者沮丧地明白，安妮实际上正在享受她的屈辱之谷——陶醉于她彻底的屈辱。她，玛丽拉，曾为自己引以为豪的有益健康的惩罚在哪里？安妮把它变成了一种积极的快乐。

Good Mrs. Lynde, not being overburdened with perception, did not see this. She only perceived that Anne had made a very thorough apology and all resentment vanished from her kindly, if somewhat officious, heart.
善良的林德夫人并没有被太多的感知所负担，她没有看到这一点。她只觉得安妮已经非常彻底地道歉了，所有的怨恨都从她那颗善良而又多管闲事的心里消失了。

‘There, there, get up, child,’ she said heartily. ‘Of course I forgive you. I guess I was a little too hard on you, anyway. But I’m such an outspoken person. You just mustn’t mind me, that’s what. It can’t be denied your hair is terrible red; but I knew a girl once—went to school with her, in fact—whose hair was every mite as red as yours when she was young, but when she grew up it darkened to a real handsome auburn. I wouldn’t be a mite surprised if yours did, too—not a mite.’
“好了，好了，起来吧，孩子，”她由衷地说。 ‘我当然原谅你了。无论如何，我想我对你有点太严厉了。但我就是这样一个直言不讳的人。你只是不能介意我，就是这样。不可否认的是，你的头发是红得可怕；但我曾经认识一个女孩——事实上，和她一起上学——她年轻时的头发和你的头发一样红，但当她长大后，它变成了真正漂亮的赤褐色。如果你的也这么做了，我一点也不会感到惊讶——不会。

‘Oh, Mrs. Lynde!’ Anne drew a long breath as she rose to her feet. ‘You have given me a hope. I shall always feel that you are a benefactor. Oh, I could endure anything if I only thought my hair would be a handsome auburn when I grew up. It would be so much easier to be good if one’s hair was a handsome auburn, don’t you think? And now may I go out into your garden and sit on that bench under the apple-trees while you and Marilla are talking? There is so much more scope for imagination out there.’
“哦，林德夫人！”安妮站起身来，长长地吸了一口气。 ‘你给了我希望。我会永远觉得你是一个恩人。哦，只要我想到长大后我的头发会是漂亮的赤褐色，我什么都可以忍受。如果一个人的头发是漂亮的赤褐色，那么做个好人会容易得多，你不觉得吗？现在我可以到你的花园去，坐在苹果树下的长凳上，听你和玛丽拉说话吗？那里有更多的想象空间。”

‘Laws, yes, run along, child. And you can pick a bouquet of them white June lilies over in the corner if you like.’
‘法律，是的，跟着走吧，孩子。如果你愿意的话，你可以在角落里摘一束白色的六月百合花。

As the door closed behind Anne Mrs. Lynde got briskly up to light a lamp.
当安妮身后的门关上时，林德夫人轻快地起身点了一盏灯。

‘She’s a real odd little thing. Take this chair, Marilla; it’s easier than the one you’ve got; I just keep that for the hired boy to sit on. Yes, she certainly is an odd child, but there is something kind of taking about her after all. I don’t feel so surprised at you and Matthew keeping her as I did—nor so sorry for you, either. She may turn out all right. Of course, she has a queer way of expressing herself— a little too—well, too kind of forcible, you know; but she’ll likely get over that now that she’s come to live among civilized folks. And then, her temper’s pretty quick, I guess; but there’s one comfort, a child that has a quick temper, just blaze up and cool down, ain’t never likely to be sly or deceitful. Preserve me from a sly child, that’s what. On the whole, Marilla, I kind of like her.’
‘她真是个奇怪的小东西。玛丽拉，坐这把椅子；它比你现有的更容易；我只是把它留给雇来的男孩坐。是的，她确实是个奇怪的孩子，但毕竟她身上有某种东西。我并不像我一样对你和马修留下她感到惊讶，也不为你感到难过。她可能会没事。当然，她有一种奇怪的表达自己的方式——有点太——嗯，太强迫了，你知道的；但既然她已经生活在文明人中间，她可能会克服这个问题。然后，我猜她的脾气相当急。但有一个安慰，一个脾气暴躁的孩子，只是脾气暴躁，脾气暴躁，冷静下来，永远不会狡猾或欺骗。保护我免受狡猾的孩子的侵害，就是这样。总的来说，玛丽拉，我有点喜欢她。

When Marilla went home Anne came out of the fragrant twilight of the orchard with a sheaf of white narcissi in her hands.
当玛丽拉回家时，安妮从果园芬芳的暮色中走出来，手里拿着一束白色的水仙花。

‘I apologized pretty well, didn’t I?’ she said proudly as they went down the lane. ‘I thought since I had to do it I might as well do it thoroughly.’
“我道歉得很好，不是吗？”当他们沿着小巷走时，她自豪地说。 “我想既然必须这么做，那我不​​如彻底地去做。”

‘You did it thoroughly, all right enough,’ was Marilla’s comment. Marilla was dismayed at finding herself inclined to laugh over the recollection. She had also an uneasy feeling that she ought to scold Anne for apologizing so well; but then, that was ridiculous! She compromised with her conscience by saying severely:
“你做得很彻底，很好，”玛丽拉评论道。玛丽拉沮丧地发现自己很容易因为回忆而发笑。她还有一种不安的感觉，她应该责骂安妮道歉得这么好。但那时，这太荒谬了！她违背良心，严厉地说：

‘I hope you won’t have occasion to make many more such apologies. I hope you’ll try to control your temper now, Anne.’
“我希望你不会再有机会做出更多这样的道歉。我希望你现在能控制住自己的脾气，安妮。”

‘That wouldn’t be so hard if people wouldn’t twit me about my looks,’ said Anne with a sigh. ‘I don’t get cross about other things; but I’m SO tired of being twitted about my hair and it just makes me boil right over. Do you suppose my hair will really be a handsome auburn when I grow up?’
“如果人们不因为我的外表而取笑我，那就不那么难了，”安妮叹了口气说。 “我不会因为其他事情而生气；但我厌倦了别人嘲笑我的头发，这让我很生气。你认为我长大后头发真的会变成漂亮的赤褐色吗？

‘You shouldn’t think so much about your looks, Anne. I’m afraid you are a very vain little girl.’
“你不应该太在意自己的外表，安妮。我担心你是一个非常虚荣的小女孩。

‘How can I be vain when I know I’m homely?’ protested Anne. ‘I love pretty things; and I hate to look in the glass and see something that isn’t pretty. It makes me feel so sorrowful—just as I feel when I look at any ugly thing. I pity it because it isn’t beautiful.’
“当我知道自己很相貌时，我怎么能虚荣呢？”安妮抗议道。 “我喜欢漂亮的东西；我讨厌照镜子看到不漂亮的东西。这让我感到如此悲伤——就像我看到任何丑陋的东西时的感觉一样。我很遗憾它，因为它并不美丽。

‘Handsome is as handsome does,’ quoted Marilla. ‘I’ve had that said to me before, but I have my doubts about it,’ remarked skeptical Anne, sniffing at her narcissi. ‘Oh, aren’t these flowers sweet! It was lovely of Mrs. Lynde to give them to me. I have no hard feelings against Mrs. Lynde now. It gives you a lovely, comfortable feeling to apologize and be forgiven, doesn’t it? Aren’t the stars bright tonight? If you could live in a star, which one would you pick? I’d like that lovely clear big one away over there above that dark hill.’
“英俊就是英俊，”玛丽拉引用道。 “以前有人这样对我说过，但我对此表示怀疑，”持怀疑态度的安妮嗅着她的自恋，说道。 ‘噢，这些花是不是很甜啊！林德夫人把它们送给我真是太好了。我现在对林德夫人没有什么怨恨了。道歉和被原谅会给你一种可爱、舒适的感觉，不是吗？今晚的星星不是很亮吗？如果你可以住在一颗星星里，你会选择哪一颗？我想要那个可爱的、透明的、大的，就在那座黑暗的山上。”

‘Anne, do hold your tongue.’ said Marilla, thoroughly worn out trying to follow the gyrations of Anne’s thoughts.
“安妮，请闭嘴。”玛丽拉说，她在试图跟上安妮思绪的旋转时已经筋疲力尽了。

Anne said no more until they turned into their own lane. A little gypsy wind came down it to meet them, laden with the spicy perfume of young dew-wet ferns. Far up in the shadows a cheerful light gleamed out through the trees from the kitchen at Green Gables. Anne suddenly came close to Marilla and slipped her hand into the older woman’s hard palm.
安妮没有再说什么，直到他们拐进自己的车道。一阵吉普赛风迎面而来，带着年轻的露水湿蕨类植物的辛辣香气。远处的阴影中，绿山墙厨房的树林里发出欢快的灯光。安妮突然靠近玛丽拉，把手伸进老妇人坚硬的手掌里。

‘It’s lovely to be going home and know it’s home,’ she said. ‘I love Green Gables already, and I never loved any place before. No place ever seemed like home. Oh, Marilla, I’m so happy. I could pray right now and not find it a bit hard.’
“回家并知道这是家真是太好了，”她说。 “我已经喜欢《绿山墙》了，但我以前从未喜欢过任何地方。没有一个地方像家。哦，玛丽拉，我很高兴。我现在就可以祈祷，而且不会觉得有点困难。”

Something warm and pleasant welled up in Marilla’s heart at touch of that thin little hand in her own—a throb of the maternity she had missed, perhaps. Its very unaccustomedness and sweetness disturbed her. She hastened to restore her sensations to their normal calm by inculcating a moral.
当玛丽拉那只瘦弱的小手触碰她的时候，一种温暖而愉快的感觉涌上心头——也许是她怀念的母性的悸动。这种不习惯和甜蜜让她不安。她赶紧通过灌输道德来使自己的感觉恢复到正常的平静。

‘If you’ll be a good girl you’ll always be happy, Anne. And you should never find it hard to say your prayers.’
“如果你是一个好女孩，你就会永远幸福，安妮。你应该永远不会觉得祈祷很困难。

‘Saying one’s prayers isn’t exactly the same thing as praying,’ said Anne meditatively. ‘But I’m going to imagine that I’m the wind that is blowing up there in those tree tops. When I get tired of the trees I’ll imagine I’m gently waving down here in the ferns—and then I’ll fly over to Mrs. Lynde’s garden and set the flowers dancing—and then I’ll go with one great swoop over the clover field—and then I’ll blow over the Lake of Shining Waters and ripple it all up into little sparkling waves. Oh, there’s so much scope for imagination in a wind! So I’ll not talk any more just now, Marilla.’
“祈祷和祈祷并不完全一样，”安妮若有所思地说。 “但我会想象我是那些树顶上吹起的风。当我厌倦了这些树木时，我会想象自己在蕨类植物中轻轻地挥手——然后我会飞到林德夫人的花园，让花朵翩翩起舞——然后我会猛扑过去飞过三叶草田——然后我会吹过闪亮湖水，把它荡漾成闪闪发光的小波浪。哦，风的想象空间真大！所以我现在不会再说话了，玛丽拉。”

‘Thanks be to goodness for that,’ breathed Marilla in devout relief.
“谢天谢地，”玛丽拉虔诚地松了口气。

Chapter XI
第十一章


Anne’s Impressions of Sunday-School
安妮对主日学校的印象

‘Well, how do you like them?’ said Marilla.
“那么，你觉得它们怎么样？”玛丽拉说。

Anne was standing in the gable room, looking solemnly at three new dresses spread out on the bed. One was of snuffy colored gingham which Marilla had been tempted to buy from a peddler the preceding summer because it looked so serviceable; one was of black-and-white checkered sateen which she had picked up at a bargain counter in the winter; and one was a stiff print of an ugly blue shade which she had purchased that week at a Carmody store.
安妮站在山墙房里，表情严肃地看着床上铺着的三件新衣服。其中一件是颜色鲜艳的格子布，去年夏天，玛丽拉很想从一个小贩那里买下来，因为它看起来很实用。一件是黑白格子棉缎，是她冬天在特价柜台买的；一件是她冬天在特价柜台买的。其中一张是一张难看的蓝色图案的硬板印刷品，是她那周在卡莫迪商店买的。

She had made them up herself, and they were all made alike—plain skirts fulled tightly to plain waists, with sleeves as plain as waist and skirt and tight as sleeves could be.
都是她自己缝制的，而且都是一样的——朴素的裙子，紧紧地塞到朴素的腰部，袖子和腰身、裙子一样朴素，袖子也尽可能紧。

‘I’ll imagine that I like them,’ said Anne soberly.
“我会想象我喜欢它们，”安妮严肃地说。

‘I don’t want you to imagine it,’ said Marilla, offended. ‘Oh, I can see you don’t like the dresses! What is the matter with them? Aren’t they neat and clean and new?’
“我不想让你想象，”玛丽拉生气地说。 “哦，我看得出你不喜欢这些衣服！他们怎么了？它们不是很整洁、很新吗？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Then why don’t you like them?’
“那你为什么不喜欢它们呢？”

‘They’re—they’re not—pretty,’ said Anne reluctantly.
“它们——它们——不——漂亮，”安妮不情愿地说。

‘Pretty!’ Marilla sniffed. ‘I didn’t trouble my head about getting pretty dresses for you. I don’t believe in pampering vanity, Anne, I’ll tell you that right off. Those dresses are good, sensible, serviceable dresses, without any frills or furbelows about them, and they’re all you’ll get this summer. The brown gingham and the blue print will do you for school when you begin to go. The sateen is for church and Sunday school. I’ll expect you to keep them neat and clean and not to tear them. I should think you’d be grateful to get most anything after those skimpy wincey things you’ve been wearing.’
“漂亮极了！”玛丽拉吸了吸鼻子。 “我并没有费心去给你买漂亮的衣服。我不相信放纵虚荣心，安妮，我马上就告诉你。这些连衣裙都是不错的、实用的、实用的连衣裙，没有任何装饰或毛茸茸的东西，它们就是你今年夏天能买到的全部。当你开始上学时，棕色格子布和蓝印花布将适合你上学。缎子是为教堂和主日学校准备的。我希望你保持它们整洁干净，不要撕破它们。我想，在你穿了那些暴露的、廉价的衣服之后，你会很感激能得到任何东西。

‘Oh, I AM grateful,’ protested Anne. ‘But I’d be ever so much gratefuller if—if you’d made just one of them with puffed sleeves. Puffed sleeves are so fashionable now. It would give me such a thrill, Marilla, just to wear a dress with puffed sleeves.’
“哦，我很感激，”安妮抗议道。 “但如果——如果你只用泡泡袖做了其中一件，我会非常感激。”现在泡泡袖很流行。玛丽拉，只要穿上一件泡泡袖连衣裙，就会让我兴奋不已。”

‘Well, you’ll have to do without your thrill. I hadn’t any material to waste on puffed sleeves. I think they are ridiculous-looking things anyhow. I prefer the plain, sensible ones.’
“好吧，你将不得不失去兴奋感。我没有任何材料可以浪费在泡泡袖上。无论如何，我认为它们都是看起来可笑的东西。我更喜欢简单、明智的。”

‘But I’d rather look ridiculous when everybody else does than plain and sensible all by myself,’ persisted Anne mournfully.
“但我宁愿在其他人都这样做的时候显得可笑，也不愿自己一个人显得朴素而明智，”安妮悲伤地坚持道。

‘Trust you for that! Well, hang those dresses carefully up in your closet, and then sit down and learn the Sunday school lesson. I got a quarterly from Mr. Bell for you and you’ll go to Sunday school tomorrow,’ said Marilla, disappearing downstairs in high dudgeon.
‘相信你！好吧，小心地将这些衣服挂在衣柜里，然后坐下来学习主日学课程。我从贝尔先生那里给你买了一份季刊，明天你就要去主日学校了。”玛丽拉说着，怒气冲冲地消失在楼下。

Anne clasped her hands and looked at the dresses.
安妮握紧双手，看着裙子。

‘I did hope there would be a white one with puffed sleeves,’ she whispered disconsolately. ‘I prayed for one, but I didn’t much expect it on that account. I didn’t suppose God would have time to bother about a little orphan girl’s dress. I knew I’d just have to depend on Marilla for it. Well, fortunately I can imagine that one of them is of snow-white muslin with lovely lace frills and three-puffed sleeves.’
“我确实希望有一件白色的，泡泡袖的，”她沮丧地低声说道。 “我祈求有一个，但因此我并没有抱太大期望。我想上帝不会有时间去关心一个小孤女的衣服。我知道我只能依靠玛丽拉了。好吧，幸运的是，我可以想象其中一件是雪白的平纹细布，带有可爱的蕾丝褶边和三泡泡袖。

The next morning warnings of a sick headache prevented Marilla from going to Sunday-school with Anne.
第二天早上，玛丽拉因头痛而无法与安妮一起去主日学校。

‘You’ll have to go down and call for Mrs. Lynde, Anne.’ she said. ‘She’ll see that you get into the right class. Now, mind you behave yourself properly. Stay to preaching afterwards and ask Mrs. Lynde to show you our pew. Here’s a cent for collection. Don’t stare at people and don’t fidget. I shall expect you to tell me the text when you come home.’
“安妮，你得下去叫林德太太。”她说。 “她会确保你进入正确的班级。现在，请注意你的行为得体。之后继续讲道，请林德夫人带您看看我们的座位。这是收集的一分钱。不要盯着人看，也不要坐立不安。我希望你回家后能告诉我短信内容。

Anne started off irreproachable, arrayed in the stiff blackand-white sateen, which, while decent as regards length and certainly not open to the charge of skimpiness, contrived to emphasize every corner and angle of her thin figure. Her hat was a little, flat, glossy, new sailor, the extreme plainness of which had likewise much disappointed Anne, who had permitted herself secret visions of ribbon and flowers. The latter, however, were supplied before Anne reached the main road, for being confronted halfway down the lane with a golden frenzy of wind-stirred buttercups and a glory of wild roses, Anne promptly and liberally garlanded her hat with a heavy wreath of them. Whatever other people might have thought of the result it satisfied Anne, and she tripped gaily down the road, holding her ruddy head with its decoration of pink and yellow very proudly.
安妮一开始无可挑剔，穿着僵硬的黑白缎子，虽然长度得体，当然不会被指责为吝啬，但她却设法强调了她瘦弱身材的每个角落和角度。她的帽子是一顶小而扁平、光滑的新水手帽，它的极其朴素同样让安妮非常失望，她允许自己秘密地想象丝带和花朵。然而，后者在安妮到达主干道之前就已经准备好了，因为在小巷的半路上，她遇到了风吹草动的金色毛茛和绚丽的野玫瑰，安妮立即慷慨地在她的帽子上戴上一个沉重的花环。 。不管别人怎么想这个结果，安妮都满意了，她高兴地走在路上，骄傲地抱着她红润的头，头上有粉红色和黄色的装饰。

When she had reached Mrs. Lynde’s house she found that lady gone. Nothing daunted, Anne proceeded onward to the church alone. In the porch she found a crowd of little girls, all more or less gaily attired in whites and blues and pinks, and all staring with curious eyes at this stranger in their midst, with her extraordinary head adornment. Avonlea little girls had already heard queer stories about Anne. Mrs. Lynde said she had an awful temper; Jerry Buote, the hired boy at Green Gables, said she talked all the time to herself or to the trees and flowers like a crazy girl. They looked at her and whispered to each other behind their quarterlies. Nobody made any friendly advances, then or later on when the opening exercises were over and Anne found herself in Miss Rogerson’s class.
当她到达林德太太家时，她发现那位女士已经不见了。安妮毫不畏惧，独自前往教堂。在门廊里，她发现了一群小女孩，她们都或多或少地穿着白色、蓝色和粉色的衣服，都用好奇的眼睛盯着她们中间这个戴着非凡头饰的陌生人。埃文利的小女孩们已经听说过有关安妮的奇怪故事。林德太太说她脾气很坏。杰瑞·博特（Jerry Buote）是绿山墙公园的雇工，他说她总是像个疯狂的女孩一样自言自语，或者对着树木和花朵说话。他们看着她，在季刊后面窃窃私语。无论是当时还是后来，当开场练习结束后，安妮发现自己在罗杰森小姐的课堂上时，都没有人做出任何友好的举动。

Miss Rogerson was a middle-aged lady who had taught a Sunday-school class for twenty years. Her method of teaching was to ask the printed questions from the quarterly and look sternly over its edge at the particular little girl she thought ought to answer the question. She looked very often at Anne, and Anne, thanks to Marilla’s drilling, answered promptly; but it may be questioned if she understood very much about either question or answer.
罗杰森小姐是一位中年女士，在主日学校任教二十年。她的教学方法是问季刊上印刷的问题，并越过边缘严肃地看着她认为应该回答问题的那个小女孩。她经常看着安妮，而安妮在玛丽拉的训练下很快就做出了回答。但她是否非常理解问题或答案可能会受到质疑。

She did not think she liked Miss Rogerson, and she felt very miserable; every other little girl in the class had puffed sleeves. Anne felt that life was really not worth living without puffed sleeves.
她认为自己不喜欢罗杰森小姐，她感到非常痛苦。班上的其他小女孩都穿着泡泡袖。安妮觉得如果没有泡泡袖，生活真的不值得过。

‘Well, how did you like Sunday school?’ Marilla wanted to know when Anne came home. Her wreath having faded, Anne had discarded it in the lane, so Marilla was spared the knowledge of that for a time.
“嗯，你喜欢主日学校吗？”玛丽拉想知道安妮什么时候回家。她的花环褪色了，安妮把它扔在巷子里，所以玛丽拉暂时不知道这件事。

‘I didn’t like it a bit. It was horrid.’
‘我有点不喜欢它。太可怕了。

‘Anne Shirley!’ said Marilla rebukingly.
“安妮·雪莉！”玛丽拉责备地说。

Anne sat down on the rocker with a long sigh, kissed one of Bonny’s leaves, and waved her hand to a blossoming fuchsia.
安妮长长地叹了口气，坐在摇椅上，亲吻了邦尼的一片叶子，向一朵盛开的紫红色挥手。

‘They might have been lonesome while I was away,’ she explained. ‘And now about the Sunday school. I behaved well, just as you told me. Mrs. Lynde was gone, but I went right on myself. I went into the church, with a lot of other little girls, and I sat in the corner of a pew by the window while the opening exercises went on. Mr. Bell made an awfully long prayer. I would have been dreadfully tired before he got through if I hadn’t been sitting by that window. But it looked right out on the Lake of Shining Waters, so I just gazed at that and imagined all sorts of splendid things.’
“我不在的时候他们可能会感到孤独，”她解释道。 “现在谈谈主日学。我表现得很好，正如你告诉我的那样。林德夫人走了，但我自己继续前行。我和许多其他小女孩一起走进教堂，坐在窗边长椅的角落里，开始练习。贝尔先生做了一个很长的祈祷。如果我不是坐在窗边，在他进来之前我就会累得要命。但它正对着光辉湖，所以我只是凝视着它，想象着各种美妙的事情。”

‘You shouldn’t have done anything of the sort. You should have listened to Mr. Bell.’
‘你不应该做这种事。你应该听贝尔先生的话。

‘But he wasn’t talking to me,’ protested Anne. ‘He was talking to God and he didn’t seem to be very much interested in it, either. I think he thought God was too far off though. There was long row of white birches hanging over the lake and the sunshine fell down through them, ‘way, ‘way down, deep into the water. Oh, Marilla, it was like a beautiful dream! It gave me a thrill and I just said, ‘Thank you for it, God,’ two or three times.’
“但他没有跟我说话，”安妮抗议道。 “他正在与上帝交谈，但他似乎对此也不太感兴趣。我认为他认为上帝离我们太遥远了。湖边挂着一排长长的白桦树，阳光透过白桦树倾泻而下，“深深地”落入水里。哦，玛丽拉，这就像一个美丽的梦！这让我很兴奋，我说了两三遍‘谢谢你，上帝’。”

‘Not out loud, I hope,’ said Marilla anxiously.
“我希望不要大声说出来，”玛丽拉焦急地说。

‘Oh, no, just under my breath. Well, Mr. Bell did get through at last and they told me to go into the classroom with Miss Rogerson’s class. There were nine other girls in it. They all had puffed sleeves. I tried to imagine mine were puffed, too, but I couldn’t. Why couldn’t I? It was as easy as could be to imagine they were puffed when I was alone in the east gable, but it was awfully hard there among the others who had really truly puffs.’
‘哦，不，就在我的呼吸之下。好吧，贝尔先生终于接通了，他们让我和罗杰森小姐的班级一起进教室。里面还有另外九个女孩。他们都有泡泡袖。我试着想象我的也被气胀了，但我做不到。为什么我不能？当我独自一人在东山墙时，很容易想象他们会气喘吁吁，但在其他真正气喘吁吁的人中间，这就很难想象了。

‘You shouldn’t have been thinking about your sleeves in Sunday school. You should have been attending to the lesson. I hope you knew it.’
“你不应该在主日学校里考虑你的袖子。你本来应该去听课的。我希望你知道这一点。

‘Oh, yes; and I answered a lot of questions. Miss Rogerson asked ever so many. I don’t think it was fair for her to do all the asking. There were lots I wanted to ask her, but I didn’t like to because I didn’t think she was a kindred spirit. Then all the other little girls recited a paraphrase. She asked me if I knew any. I told her I didn’t, but I could recite, ‘The Dog at His Master’s Grave’ if she liked. That’s in the Third Royal Reader. It isn’t a really truly religious piece of poetry, but it’s so sad and melancholy that it might as well be. She said it wouldn’t do and she told me to learn the nineteenth paraphrase for next Sunday. I read it over in church afterwards and it’s splendid. There are two lines in particular that just thrill me.
'哦是的;我回答了很多问题。罗杰森小姐问了很多。我认为她提出所有要求是不公平的。我有很多事情想问她，但我不想问，因为我觉得她不是志同道合的人。然后所有其他小女孩都背诵了一段释义。她问我是否知道。我告诉她我没有，但如果她愿意的话，我可以背诵“狗在主人的坟墓里”。这是《第三皇家读本》中的内容。这不是一首真正的宗教诗，但它是如此悲伤和忧郁，它也可能是。她说不行，还叫我下周日学第十九条释义。后来我在教堂读了一遍，非常棒。有两句台词特别让我兴奋。

‘Quick as the slaughtered squadrons fell
‘被屠杀的中队很快就倒下了

In Midian’s evil day.’
在米甸邪恶的日子。

I don’t know what ‘squadrons’ means nor ‘Midian,’ either, but it sounds SO tragical. I can hardly wait until next Sunday to recite it. I’ll practice it all the week. After Sunday school I asked Miss Rogerson—because Mrs. Lynde was too far away—to show me your pew. I sat just as still as I could and the text was Revelations, third chapter, second and third verses. It was a very long text. If I was a minister I’d pick the short, snappy ones. The sermon was awfully long, too. I suppose the minister had to match it to the text. I didn’t think he was a bit interesting. The trouble with him seems to be that he hasn’t enough imagination. I didn’t listen to him very much. I just let my thoughts run and I thought of the most surprising things.’
我不知道“中队”是什么意思，也不知道“米甸”是什么意思，但这听起来很悲惨。我迫不及待地想念下周日。我会练习整个星期。周日放学后，我请罗杰森小姐——因为林德夫人离得太远——让我看看你的座位。我尽量一动不动地坐着，课文是《启示录》，第三章，第二节和第三节。这是一篇很长的文字。如果我是一名牧师，我会选择短而活泼的。讲道也非常长。我想部长必须将其与文本相匹配。我不认为他有一点有趣。他的问题似乎在于他没有足够的想象力。我没怎么听他说话。我只是让我的思绪自由流动，我想到了最令人惊讶的事情。

Marilla felt helplessly that all this should be sternly reproved, but she was hampered by the undeniable fact that some of the things Anne had said, especially about the minister’s sermons and Mr. Bell’s prayers, were what she herself had really thought deep down in her heart for years, but had never given expression to. It almost seemed to her that those secret, unuttered, critical thoughts had suddenly taken visible and accusing shape and form in the person of this outspoken morsel of neglected humanity.
玛丽拉无奈地觉得这一切都应该受到严厉的谴责，但她又被一个不可否认的事实所困扰，那就是安妮所说的一些话，尤其是牧师的布道和贝尔先生的祈祷，正是她自己内心深处的真实想法。多年来的心，却从未表达出来。在她看来，那些秘密的、不言而喻的、批判性的想法突然在这个直言不讳、被忽视的人性身上变得可见和指责。

Chapter XII
第十二章


A Solemn Vow and Promise
庄严的誓言和承诺

It was not until the next Friday that Marilla heard the story of the flower-wreathed hat. She came home from Mrs. Lynde’s and called Anne to account.
直到下周五，玛丽拉才听到了花环帽子的故事。她从林德太太家回到家，要求安妮负责。

‘Anne, Mrs. Rachel says you went to church last Sunday with your hat rigged out ridiculous with roses and buttercups. What on earth put you up to such a caper? A pretty-looking object you must have been!’
“安妮，雷切尔夫人说你上周日去了教堂，帽子上装饰着玫瑰和毛茛，可笑得很。”到底是什么让你做出这样的举动？你一定是一个看起来很漂亮的东西！

‘Oh. I know pink and yellow aren’t becoming to me,’ began Anne.
'哦。我知道粉色和黄色不适合我，”安妮开始说道。

‘Becoming fiddlesticks! It was putting flowers on your hat at all, no matter what color they were, that was ridiculous. You are the most aggravating child!’
‘变成小提琴手了！它根本就是在你的帽子上放花，不管它们是什么颜色，这太荒谬了。你是最让人恼火的孩子！

‘I don’t see why it’s any more ridiculous to wear flowers on your hat than on your dress,’ protested Anne. ‘Lots of little girls there had bouquets pinned on their dresses. What’s the difference?’
“我不明白为什么在帽子上戴花比在衣服上戴花更可笑，”安妮抗议道。 “那里很多小女孩的衣服上都别着花束。有什么不同？'

Marilla was not to be drawn from the safe concrete into dubious paths of the abstract.
马里拉不会从安全的具体事物中被拉入可疑的抽象道路。

‘Don’t answer me back like that, Anne. It was very silly of you to do such a thing. Never let me catch you at such a trick again. Mrs. Rachel says she thought she would sink through the floor when she come in all rigged out like that. She couldn’t get near enough to tell you to take them off till it was too late. She says people talked about it something dreadful. Of course they would think I had no better sense than to let you go decked out like that.’
“别这样回答我，安妮。你做这样的事真是太愚蠢了。再也不要让我抓住你的这种把戏了。雷切尔夫人说，当她穿着这样的衣服进来时，她以为自己会从地板上沉下去。她无法靠近到告诉你把它们脱掉，直到为时已晚。她说人们谈论了一些可怕的事情。当然，他们会认为我没有比让你打扮成这样更好的明智之举。

‘Oh, I’m so sorry,’ said Anne, tears welling into her eyes. ‘I never thought you’d mind. The roses and buttercups were so sweet and pretty I thought they’d look lovely on my hat. Lots of the little girls had artificial flowers on their hats. I’m afraid I’m going to be a dreadful trial to you. Maybe you’d better send me back to the asylum. That would be terrible; I don’t think I could endure it; most likely I would go into consumption; I’m so thin as it is, you see. But that would be better than being a trial to you.’
“哦，我很抱歉，”安妮说，泪水涌入眼眶。 “我没想到你会介意。玫瑰和毛茛花又甜又漂亮，我想它们戴在我的帽子上会很漂亮。许多小女孩的帽子上都插着人造花。我担心我会对你来说是一个可怕的考验。也许你最好把我送回精神病院。那将是可怕的；我想我无法忍受；我很可能会进入消费领域；你看，我就是这么瘦。但这比对你来说是一个考验要好。”

‘Nonsense,’ said Marilla, vexed at herself for having made the child cry. ‘I don’t want to send you back to the asylum, I’m sure. All I want is that you should behave like other little girls and not make yourself ridiculous. Don’t cry any more. I’ve got some news for you. Diana Barry came home this afternoon. I’m going up to see if I can borrow a skirt pattern from Mrs. Barry, and if you like you can come with me and get acquainted with Diana.’
“胡说八道，”玛丽拉说，她为自己把孩子弄哭而感到恼火。 “我确定我不想把你送回精神病院。我只想让你表现得像其他小女孩一样，不要让自己变得可笑。别再哭了。我有一些消息要告诉你。戴安娜·巴里今天下午回家了。我要去看看能否向巴里夫人借一条裙子的款式，如果你愿意的话可以跟我一起去认识一下戴安娜。

Anne rose to her feet, with clasped hands, the tears still glistening on her cheeks; the dish towel she had been hemming slipped unheeded to the floor.
安妮站了起来，双手紧握，脸颊上仍然闪烁着泪水。她包边的洗碗巾不经意间滑落到了地板上。

‘Oh, Marilla, I’m frightened—now that it has come I’m actually frightened. What if she shouldn’t like me! It would be the most tragical disappointment of my life.’
“哦，玛丽拉，我很害怕——现在它来了，我真的很害怕。如果她不喜欢我怎么办！这将是我一生中最悲惨的失望。”

‘Now, don’t get into a fluster. And I do wish you wouldn’t use such long words. It sounds so funny in a little girl. I guess Diana’ll like you well enough. It’s her mother you’ve got to reckon with. If she doesn’t like you it won’t matter how much Diana does. If she has heard about your outburst to Mrs. Lynde and going to church with buttercups round your hat I don’t know what she’ll think of you. You must be polite and well behaved, and don’t make any of your startling speeches. For pity’s sake, if the child isn’t actually trembling!’
‘现在，不要慌乱。我真希望你不要使用这么长的词。对于一个小女孩来说，这听起来很有趣。我想戴安娜会很喜欢你的。你必须考虑的是她的母亲。如果她不喜欢你，戴安娜爱得再多也没用。如果她听说你对林德夫人大发雷霆，还戴着毛茛去教堂，我不知道她会怎么想你。你必须有礼貌，举止得体，不要发表任何令人震惊的言论。天哪，如果这孩子没有真正颤抖的话！”

Anne WAS trembling. Her face was pale and tense.
安妮浑身发抖。她的脸色苍白而紧张。

‘Oh, Marilla, you’d be excited, too, if you were going to meet a little girl you hoped to be your bosom friend and whose mother mightn’t like you,’ she said as she hastened to get her hat.
“哦，玛丽拉，如果你要见到一个小女孩，你希望成为你的知音，而她的母亲可能不喜欢你，你也会很兴奋的，”她一边说，一边赶紧去拿帽子。

They went over to Orchard Slope by the short cut across the brook and up the firry hill grove. Mrs. Barry came to the kitchen door in answer to Marilla’s knock. She was a tall black-eyed, black-haired woman, with a very resolute mouth. She had the reputation of being very strict with her children.
他们抄近路穿过小溪，爬上冷杉山林，来到了果园坡。听到玛丽拉的敲门声，巴里太太来到厨房门口。她是一个身材高挑、黑眼黑发的女人，嘴巴非常坚决。她以对孩子非常严格而闻名。

‘How do you do, Marilla?’ she said cordially. ‘Come in. And this is the little girl you have adopted, I suppose?’
“你好吗，玛丽拉？”她亲切地说。 “进来吧。我想这就是你收养的小女孩吧？”

‘Yes, this is Anne Shirley,’ said Marilla.
“是的，这是安妮·雪莉，”玛丽拉说。

‘Spelled with an E,’ gasped Anne, who, tremulous and excited as she was, was determined there should be no misunderstanding on that important point.
“拼写为 E，”安妮气喘吁吁地说，尽管她浑身颤抖又兴奋，但她决心在这一重要点上不应该有任何误解。

Mrs. Barry, not hearing or not comprehending, merely shook hands and said kindly:
巴里夫人没有听见，也没有理解，只是握了握手，友善地说：

‘How are you?’
'你好吗？'

‘I am well in body although considerable rumpled up in spirit, thank you ma’am,’ said Anne gravely. Then aside to Marilla in an audible whisper, ‘There wasn’t anything startling in that, was there, Marilla?’
“我身体很好，虽然精神上有些不舒服，谢谢你，女士，”安妮严肃地说。然后在旁边小声对玛丽拉问道：“这并没有什么令人吃惊的，不是吗，玛丽拉？”

Diana was sitting on the sofa, reading a book which she dropped when the callers entered. She was a very pretty little girl, with her mother’s black eyes and hair, and rosy cheeks, and the merry expression which was her inheritance from her father.
戴安娜坐在沙发上看一本书，当打电话的人进来时，她把书掉在了地上。她是一个非常漂亮的小女孩，有着她母亲的黑色眼睛和头发，红润的脸颊，还有她从父亲那里继承的快乐的表情。

‘This is my little girl Diana,’ said Mrs. Barry. ‘Diana, you might take Anne out into the garden and show her your flowers. It will be better for you than straining your eyes over that book. She reads entirely too much—‘ this to Marilla as the little girls went out—‘and I can’t prevent her, for her father aids and abets her. She’s always poring over a book. I’m glad she has the prospect of a playmate— perhaps it will take her more out-of-doors.’
“这是我的小女儿戴安娜，”巴里夫人说。 “戴安娜，你可以带安妮去花园，给她看你的花。这对你来说比把眼睛盯着那本书更好。她读得太多了——”当小女孩们出去时，这是对玛丽拉说的——“我无法阻止她，因为她的父亲帮助和怂恿她。她总是在埋头苦读一本书。我很高兴她有一个玩伴的前景——也许这会让她更多地户外活动。

Outside in the garden, which was full of mellow sunset light streaming through the dark old firs to the west of it, stood Anne and Diana, gazing bashfully at each other over a clump of gorgeous tiger lilies.
外面的花园里，柔和的夕阳透过西边深色的老冷杉洒下来，安妮和戴安娜站在花园里，在一丛华丽的虎百合面前羞涩地凝视着对方。

The Barry garden was a bowery wilderness of flowers which would have delighted Anne’s heart at any time less fraught with destiny. It was encircled by huge old willows and tall firs, beneath which flourished flowers that loved the shade. Prim, right-angled paths neatly bordered with clamshells, intersected it like moist red ribbons and in the beds between old-fashioned flowers ran riot. There were rosy bleeding-hearts and great splendid crimson peonies; white, fragrant narcissi and thorny, sweet Scotch roses; pink and blue and white columbines and lilac-tinted Bouncing Bets; clumps of southernwood and ribbon grass and mint; purple Adam-and-Eve, daffodils, and masses of sweet clover white with its delicate, fragrant, feathery sprays; scarlet lightning that shot its fiery lances over prim white musk-flowers; a garden it was where sunshine lingered and bees hummed, and winds, beguiled into loitering, purred and rustled.
巴里花园是一片开满鲜花的凉亭荒野，如果没有命运的安排，安妮的心随时都会感到高兴。周围环绕着巨大的老柳树和高大的冷杉，树下开满了喜荫的花朵。整齐的直角小路整齐地用蛤壳镶边，像潮湿的红丝带一样将其交叉，老式花朵之间的花坛里乱七八糟。这里有玫瑰色的血心花和绚丽的深红色牡丹。白色芬芳的水仙花和带刺的甜美苏格兰玫瑰；粉色、蓝色和白色的耧斗菜和淡紫色的弹跳赌注；丛生的南方木、带状草和薄荷；紫色的亚当和夏娃、水仙花和一大片白色的甜三叶草，上面有精致、芬芳的羽毛状花序；猩红色的闪电将其炽热的长矛射向古板的白麝香花；这是一座花园，阳光灿烂，蜜蜂嗡嗡作响，风儿在花园中徘徊，发出咕噜声和沙沙声。

‘Oh, Diana,’ said Anne at last, clasping her hands and speaking almost in a whisper, ‘oh, do you think you can like me a little—enough to be my bosom friend?’
“哦，戴安娜，”安妮最后说道，她紧握着双手，几乎是低声说道，“哦，你认为你能喜欢我一点点——足以成为我的知己吗？”

Diana laughed. Diana always laughed before she spoke.
戴安娜笑了。戴安娜说话前总是笑。

‘Why, I guess so,’ she said frankly. ‘I’m awfully glad you’ve come to live at Green Gables. It will be jolly to have somebody to play with. There isn’t any other girl who lives near enough to play with, and I’ve no sisters big enough.’
“为什么，我想是这样，”她坦白地说。 “我非常高兴你来到绿山墙居住。有人一起玩的话会很开心。没有其他女孩住得足够近可以一起玩，而且我也没有足够大的姐妹。

‘Will you swear to be my friend forever and ever?’ demanded Anne eagerly.
“你愿意发誓永远做我的朋友吗？”安妮急切地问道。

Diana looked shocked.
戴安娜看上去很震惊。

‘Why it’s dreadfully wicked to swear,’ she said rebukingly.
“为什么说脏话是极其邪恶的，”她斥责道。

‘Oh no, not my kind of swearing. There are two kinds, you know.’
“哦不，不是我的那种咒骂。你知道，有两种。

‘I never heard of but one kind,’ said Diana doubtfully.
“我只听说过一种。”黛安娜疑惑地说。

‘There really is another. Oh, it isn’t wicked at all. It just means vowing and promising solemnly.’
‘确实还有另一个。哦，这根本不邪恶。这只是意味着郑重的发誓和承诺。”

‘Well, I don’t mind doing that,’ agreed Diana, relieved. ‘How do you do it?’
“好吧，我不介意这样做，”黛安娜同意道，松了口气。 '你怎么做呢？'

‘We must join hands—so,’ said Anne gravely. ‘It ought to be over running water. We’ll just imagine this path is running water. I’ll repeat the oath first. I solemnly swear to be faithful to my bosom friend, Diana Barry, as long as the sun and moon shall endure. Now you say it and put my name in.’
“我们必须携起手来——所以，”安妮严肃地说。 ‘应该是流水。我们会想象这条路是流水。我先重复一下誓言。我郑重宣誓，只要日月长存，我将忠于我的挚友戴安娜·巴里。现在你说吧，然后把我的名字写进去。”

Diana repeated the ‘oath’ with a laugh fore and aft. Then she said:
戴安娜前后笑着重复了一遍“誓言”。然后她说：

‘You’re a queer girl, Anne. I heard before that you were queer. But I believe I’m going to like you real well.’
“你是个奇怪的女孩，安妮。我之前就听说你是个奇怪的人。但我相信我会非常喜欢你。

When Marilla and Anne went home Diana went with them as for as the log bridge. The two little girls walked with their arms about each other. At the brook they parted with many promises to spend the next afternoon together.
当玛丽拉和安妮回家时，戴安娜和他们一起去了独木桥。两个小女孩互相搂着对方走路。在小溪边，他们告别时许下许多诺言，要一起度过第二天下午。

‘Well, did you find Diana a kindred spirit?’ asked Marilla as they went up through the garden of Green Gables.
“嗯，你们觉得戴安娜志趣相投吗？”当他们穿过绿山墙花园时，玛丽拉问道。

‘Oh yes,’ sighed Anne, blissfully unconscious of any sarcasm on Marilla’s part. ‘Oh Marilla, I’m the happiest girl on Prince Edward Island this very moment. I assure you I’ll say my prayers with a right good-will tonight. Diana and I are going to build a playhouse in Mr. William Bell’s birch grove tomorrow. Can I have those broken pieces of china that are out in the woodshed? Diana’s birthday is in February and mine is in March. Don’t you think that is a very strange coincidence? Diana is going to lend me a book to read. She says it’s perfectly splendid and tremendously exciting. She’s going to show me a place back in the woods where rice lilies grow. Don’t you think Diana has got very soulful eyes? I wish I had soulful eyes. Diana is going to teach me to sing a song called ‘Nelly in the Hazel Dell.’ She’s going to give me a picture to put up in my room; it’s a perfectly beautiful picture, she says—a lovely lady in a pale blue silk dress. A sewing-machine agent gave it to her. I wish I had something to give Diana. I’m an inch taller than Diana, but she is ever so much fatter; she says she’d like to be thin because it’s so much more graceful, but I’m afraid she only said it to soothe my feelings. We’re going to the shore some day to gather shells. We have agreed to call the spring down by the log bridge the Dryad’s Bubble. Isn’t that a perfectly elegant name? I read a story once about a spring called that. A dryad is sort of a grown-up fairy, I think.’
“哦，是的，”安妮叹了口气，幸福地没有意识到玛丽拉的任何讽刺。 “噢，玛丽拉，此刻我是爱德华王子岛上最幸福的女孩。我向你们保证，今晚我会怀着正确的善意进行祈祷。戴安娜和我明天打算在威廉·贝尔先生的白桦林里建一座剧场。我可以把木棚里的那些瓷器碎片拿过来吗？戴安娜的生日是二月，我的生日是三月。你不觉得这是一个非常奇怪的巧合吗？戴安娜打算借给我一本书来读。她说这非常精彩而且非常令人兴奋。她要带我去看树林里长着稻百合的地方。你不觉得戴安娜有一双深情的眼睛吗？我希望我有一双深情的眼睛。戴安娜将教我唱一首名为《榛树谷中的耐莉》的歌曲。她将给我一张照片，让我把它挂在我的房间里；她说，这是一幅非常美丽的图画——一位穿着淡蓝色丝绸连衣裙的可爱女士。一位缝纫机代理商把它给了她。我希望我有东西可以送给戴安娜。我比戴安娜高一英寸，但她却胖得多；她说她想瘦一点，因为这样更优雅，但恐怕她这么说只是为了安抚我的感情。有一天我们要去岸边收集贝壳。我们同意将独木桥旁的泉水称为“树妖泡泡”。这不是一个非常优雅的名字吗？我曾经读过一个关于春天的故事。我认为树妖有点像成年的仙女。

‘Well, all I hope is you won’t talk Diana to death,’ said Marilla. ‘But remember this in all your planning, Anne. You’re not going to play all the time nor most of it. You’ll have your work to do and it’ll have to be done first.’
“好吧，我只希望你不要把戴安娜说死。”玛丽拉说。 “但是在你所有的计划中都要记住这一点，安妮。你不会一直玩，也不会大部分时间玩。你有你的工作要做，而且必须先完成。

Anne’s cup of happiness was full, and Matthew caused it to overflow. He had just got home from a trip to the store at Carmody, and he sheepishly produced a small parcel from his pocket and handed it to Anne, with a deprecatory look at Marilla.
安妮的幸福之杯已经满了，马修让它溢出来。他刚刚逛完卡莫迪的商店回到家，羞涩地从口袋里掏出一个小包裹，递给安妮，脸上带着不屑的目光看着玛丽拉。

‘I heard you say you liked chocolate sweeties, so I got you some,’ he said.
“我听到你说你喜欢巧克力糖，所以我给你买了一些，”他说。

‘Humph,’ sniffed Marilla. ‘It’ll ruin her teeth and stomach. There, there, child, don’t look so dismal. You can eat those, since Matthew has gone and got them. He’d better have brought you peppermints. They’re wholesomer. Don’t sicken yourself eating all them at once now.’
“哼，”玛丽拉吸了吸鼻子。 “这会毁掉她的牙齿和胃。”那里，那里，孩子，别看起来那么沮丧。你可以吃那些，因为马修已经拿走了它们。他最好给你带薄荷糖。它们更健康。现在不要一次吃完所有这些而让自己感到恶心。”

‘Oh, no, indeed, I won’t,’ said Anne eagerly. ‘I’ll just eat one tonight, Marilla. And I can give Diana half of them, can’t I? The other half will taste twice as sweet to me if I give some to her. It’s delightful to think I have something to give her.’
“噢，不，我确实不会，”安妮急切地说。 “我今晚只吃一个，玛丽拉。我可以给戴安娜一半，不是吗？如果我给她另一半，我的味道会加倍甜。想到我有东西可以给她，我感到很高兴。

‘I will say it for the child,’ said Marilla when Anne had gone to her gable, ‘she isn’t stingy. I’m glad, for of all faults I detest stinginess in a child. Dear me, it’s only three weeks since she came, and it seems as if she’d been here always. I can’t imagine the place without her. Now, don’t be looking I told-you-so, Matthew. That’s bad enough in a woman, but it isn’t to be endured in a man. I’m perfectly willing to own up that I’m glad I consented to keep the child and that I’m getting fond of her, but don’t you rub it in, Matthew Cuthbert.’
“我会为孩子说的，”当安妮走到她的山墙边时，玛丽拉说，“她并不小气。”我很高兴，因为在所有缺点中，我最讨厌孩子的小气。天哪，她来才三个星期，但她似乎一直都在这里。我无法想象没有她的地方。现在，别看我告诉过你了，马修。这对女人来说已经够糟糕了，但对男人来说就更不能忍受了。我完全愿意承认，我很高兴同意保留这个孩子，而且我越来越喜欢她，但你别再强调了，马修·库斯伯特。”

Chapter XIII
第十三章


The Delights of Anticipation
期待的喜悦

‘It’s time Anne was in to do her sewing,’ said Marilla, glancing at the clock and then out into the yellow August afternoon where everything drowsed in the heat. ‘She stayed playing with Diana more than half an hour more’n I gave her leave to; and now she’s perched out there on the woodpile talking to Matthew, nineteen to the dozen, when she knows perfectly well she ought to be at her work. And of course he’s listening to her like a perfect ninny. I never saw such an infatuated man. The more she talks and the odder the things she says, the more he’s delighted evidently. Anne Shirley, you come right in here this minute, do you hear me!’
“安妮该进去做针线活了。”玛丽拉说着，看了一眼时钟，然后走进了八月的黄色午后，一切都在炎热中昏昏欲睡。 “在我允许她离开之前，她和戴安娜一起玩了半个多小时；现在她正坐在柴堆上和马修说话，一打十九，而她非常清楚自己应该去工作。当然，他像个完美的傻瓜一样听着她说话。我从未见过如此痴情的男人。她说得越多，说的话越奇怪，他显然就越高兴。安妮·雪莉，你现在就到这里来，听到我说话了吗！”

A series of staccato taps on the west window brought Anne flying in from the yard, eyes shining, cheeks faintly flushed with pink, unbraided hair streaming behind her in a torrent of brightness.
西窗上一连串断断续续的敲击声让安妮从院子里飞了进来，她的眼睛闪闪发亮，脸颊微微泛红，粉色的未编辫子的头发在她身后闪闪发光。

‘Oh, Marilla,’ she exclaimed breathlessly, ‘there’s going to be a Sunday-school picnic next week—in Mr. Harmon Andrews’s field, right near the lake of Shining Waters. And Mrs. Superintendent Bell and Mrs. Rachel Lynde are going to make ice cream—think of it, Marilla—ICE CREAM! And, oh, Marilla, can I go to it?’
“哦，玛丽拉，”她气喘吁吁地喊道，“下周主日学校将举行野餐——在哈蒙·安德鲁斯先生的田地里，就在闪亮水域湖附近。贝尔警司夫人和雷切尔·林德夫人要制作冰淇淋——想想看，玛丽拉——冰淇淋！还有，哦，玛丽拉，我可以去吗？

‘Just look at the clock, if you please, Anne. What time did I tell you to come in?’
“安妮，请你看一下时钟。”我叫你什么时候进来的？

‘Two o’clock—but isn’t it splendid about the picnic, Marilla? Please can I go? Oh, I’ve never been to a picnic—I’ve dreamed of picnics, but I’ve never—‘
“两点了——但是野餐不是很棒吗，玛丽拉？请问我可以去吗？哦，我从来没有去过野餐——我梦想过野餐，但我从来没有——”

‘Yes, I told you to come at two o’clock. And it’s a quarter to three. I’d like to know why you didn’t obey me, Anne.’
“是的，我告诉过你两点钟来。”现在是三点差一刻。我想知道你为什么不听我的话，安妮。

‘Why, I meant to, Marilla, as much as could be. But you have no idea how fascinating Idlewild is. And then, of course, I had to tell Matthew about the picnic. Matthew is such a sympathetic listener. Please can I go?’
“为什么，我本想这么做，玛丽拉，尽可能地这么做。”但你不知道艾德怀德有多么迷人。然后，当然，我必须告诉马修野餐的事。马修是一位富有同情心的倾听者。请问我可以走了吗？

‘You’ll have to learn to resist the fascination of Idlewhateveryou-call-it. When I tell you to come in at a certain time I mean that time and not half an hour later. And you needn’t stop to discourse with sympathetic listeners on your way, either. As for the picnic, of course you can go. You’re a Sunday-school scholar, and it’s not likely I’d refuse to let you go when all the other little girls are going.’
“你必须学会​​抵制闲置（不管你怎么称呼它）的魅力。当我告诉你在某个时间进来时，我指的是那个时间，而不是半小时后。而且您也不必在途中停下来与富有同情心的听众交谈。至于野餐，当然可以去。你是主日学的学生，当其他小女孩都去的时候，我不太可能拒绝让你去。

‘But—but,’ faltered Anne, ‘Diana says that everybody must take a basket of things to eat. I can’t cook, as you know, Marilla, and—and—I don’t mind going to a picnic without puffed sleeves so much, but I’d feel terribly humiliated if I had to go without a basket. It’s been preying on my mind ever since Diana told me.’
“但是——但是，”安妮结结巴巴地说，“戴安娜说每个人都必须带一篮子东西吃。”你知道，我不会做饭，玛丽拉，而且——而且——我不介意去野餐时不带泡泡袖，但如果我不得不不带篮子去野餐，我会感到非常羞辱。自从戴安娜告诉我以来，这件事一直困扰着我。

‘Well, it needn’t prey any longer. I’ll bake you a basket.’
‘好吧，它不需要再捕食了。我给你烤一篮子。

‘Oh, you dear good Marilla. Oh, you are so kind to me. Oh, I’m so much obliged to you.’
“哦，你亲爱的好玛丽拉。哦，你对我真好。哦，我非常感谢你。

Getting through with her ‘ohs’ Anne cast herself into Marilla’s arms and rapturously kissed her sallow cheek. It was the first time in her whole life that childish lips had voluntarily touched Marilla’s face. Again that sudden sensation of startling sweetness thrilled her. She was secretly vastly pleased at Anne’s impulsive caress, which was probably the reason why she said brusquely:
安妮说了一声“哦”，投入了玛丽拉的怀抱，欣喜若狂地亲吻了她蜡黄的脸颊。这是她一生中第一次，孩子气的嘴唇主动触碰玛丽拉的脸。那种突如其来的甜蜜感再次让她兴奋不已。她暗暗为安妮冲动的爱抚而欣喜不已，大概这就是她粗暴地说的原因：

‘There, there, never mind your kissing nonsense. I’d sooner see you doing strictly as you’re told. As for cooking, I mean to begin giving you lessons in that some of these days. But you’re so featherbrained, Anne, I’ve been waiting to see if you’d sober down a little and learn to be steady before I begin. You’ve got to keep your wits about you in cooking and not stop in the middle of things to let your thoughts rove all over creation. Now, get out your patchwork and have your square done before teatime.’
‘好了，好了，别介意你那些胡言乱语的接吻。我宁愿看到你严格按照吩咐去做。至于烹饪，我打算最近几天开始给你们上这方面的课。但你太轻率了，安妮，我一直在等着看你是否能清醒一点，在我开始之前学会保持镇定。在烹饪过程中你必须保持头脑清醒，不要半途而废，让你的思绪在创作中四处游荡。现在，拿出你的拼布作品，在下午茶时间之前完成你的广场。

‘I do NOT like patchwork,’ said Anne dolefully, hunting out her workbasket and sitting down before a little heap of red and white diamonds with a sigh. ‘I think some kinds of sewing would be nice; but there’s no scope for imagination in patchwork. It’s just one little seam after another and you never seem to be getting anywhere. But of course I’d rather be Anne of Green Gables sewing patchwork than Anne of any other place with nothing to do but play. I wish time went as quick sewing patches as it does when I’m playing with Diana, though. Oh, we do have such elegant times, Marilla. I have to furnish most of the imagination, but I’m well able to do that. Diana is simply perfect in every other way. You know that little piece of land across the brook that runs up between our farm and Mr. Barry’s. It belongs to Mr. William Bell, and right in the corner there is a little ring of white birch trees—the most romantic spot, Marilla. Diana and I have our playhouse there. We call it Idlewild. Isn’t that a poetical name? I assure you it took me some time to think it out. I stayed awake nearly a whole night before I invented it. Then, just as I was dropping off to sleep, it came like an inspiration. Diana was ENRAPTURED when she heard it. We have got our house fixed up elegantly. You must come and see it, Marilla—won’t you? We have great big stones, all covered with moss, for seats, and boards from tree to tree for shelves. And we have all our dishes on them. Of course, they’re all broken but it’s the easiest thing in the world to imagine that they are whole. There’s a piece of a plate with a spray of red and yellow ivy on it that is especially beautiful. We keep it in the parlor and we have the fairy glass there, too. The fairy glass is as lovely as a dream. Diana found it out in the woods behind their chicken house. It’s all full of rainbows—just little young rainbows that haven’t grown big yet—and Diana’s mother told her it was broken off a hanging lamp they once had. But it’s nice to imagine the fairies lost it one night when they had a ball, so we call it the fairy glass. Matthew is going to make us a table. Oh, we have named that little round pool over in Mr. Barry’s field Willowmere. I got that name out of the book Diana lent me. That was a thrilling book, Marilla. The heroine had five lovers. I’d be satisfied with one, wouldn’t you? She was very handsome and she went through great tribulations. She could faint as easy as anything. I’d love to be able to faint, wouldn’t you, Marilla? It’s so romantic. But I’m really very healthy for all I’m so thin. I believe I’m getting fatter, though. Don’t you think I am? I look at my elbows every morning when I get up to see if any dimples are coming. Diana is having a new dress made with elbow sleeves. She is going to wear it to the picnic. Oh, I do hope it will be fine next Wednesday. I don’t feel that I could endure the disappointment if anything happened to prevent me from getting to the picnic. I suppose I’d live through it, but I’m certain it would be a lifelong sorrow. It wouldn’t matter if I got to a hundred picnics in after years; they wouldn’t make up for missing this one. They’re going to have boats on the Lake of Shining Waters—and ice cream, as I told you. I have never tasted ice cream. Diana tried to explain what it was like, but I guess ice cream is one of those things that are beyond imagination.’
“我不喜欢拼凑而成的东西，”安妮悲伤地说，一边找出工作篮，一边叹了口气，坐在一小堆红白钻石前。 “我认为某些类型的缝纫会很好;但拼凑起来没有想象的余地。这只是一个接一个的小接缝，你似乎永远不会到达任何地方。当然，我宁愿成为绿山墙缝补品的安妮，也不愿成为任何其他地方除了玩耍之外无所事事的安妮。不过，我希望缝纫补丁的时间过得像我和戴安娜一起玩时一样快。哦，我们确实有如此优雅的时光，玛丽拉。我必须提供大部分的想象力，但我完全有能力做到这一点。戴安娜在其他方面都是完美的。你知道我们农场和巴里先生农场之间小溪对面的那一小块土地。它属于威廉·贝尔先生，拐角处有一小圈白桦树——最浪漫的地方，玛丽拉。戴安娜和我在那里有我们的剧场。我们称之为艾德怀德。这不是一个充满诗意的名字吗？我向你保证我花了一些时间才想出来。在我发明它之前，我几乎彻夜未眠。然后，正当我快要入睡时，它就像一个灵感一样来了。戴安娜听到这个消息后欣喜若狂。我们把房子装修得很漂亮。你一定要来看看，玛丽拉——不是吗？我们有巨大的大石头，上面长满了青苔，可以当座位，还有一棵又一棵树上的木板当架子。我们所有的菜肴都放在上面。当然，它们都已经破碎了，但想象它们是完整的是世界上最容易的事情。有一块盘子，上面喷着红色和黄色的常春藤，特别漂亮。我们把它放在客厅里，那里也有仙女玻璃。仙女琉璃如梦般可爱。 戴安娜在鸡舍后面的树林里发现了它。到处都是彩虹——只是还没有长大的小彩虹——戴安娜的母亲告诉她，彩虹是从他们曾经拥有的一盏吊灯上折下来的。但想象一下仙女们在舞会的某个晚上把它弄丢了，真是太好了，所以我们称它为仙女玻璃。马修要给我们准备一张桌子。哦，我们把巴里先生田地里的那个小圆池命名为威洛米尔。我从戴安娜借给我的书中得到了这个名字。那是一本令人兴奋的书，玛丽拉。女主角有五个情人。有一个我就很满意了，不是吗？她很漂亮，也经历过很大的磨难。她很容易就会晕倒。我很想能够晕倒，不是吗，玛丽拉？太浪漫了。但尽管我这么瘦，但我真的很健康。但我相信我会越来越胖。你不认为我是吗？每天早上起床时我都会看看自己的手肘，看看是否有酒窝出现。戴安娜正在购买一件带有肘袖的新连衣裙。她要穿着它去野餐。噢，我真希望下周三一切顺利。如果发生任何事情阻止我去野餐，我觉得我无法忍受失望。我想我会度过这一切，但我确信这将是一生的悲伤。几年后我是否能参加一百次野餐也没关系；他们无法弥补错过这一点。正如我告诉过你的，他们将在闪亮水域湖上停泊船只，并提供冰淇淋。我从来没有吃过冰淇淋。戴安娜试图解释它是什么样的，但我想冰淇淋是超乎想象的东西之一。’

‘Anne, you have talked even on for ten minutes by the clock,’ said Marilla. ‘Now, just for curiosity’s sake, see if you can hold your tongue for the same length of time.’
“安妮，按时钟计算，你已经讲了十分钟了，”玛丽拉说。 “现在，出于好奇，看看你能否在同样的时间内保持沉默。”

Anne held her tongue as desired. But for the rest of the week she talked picnic and thought picnic and dreamed picnic. On Saturday it rained and she worked herself up into such a frantic state lest it should keep on raining until and over Wednesday that Marilla made her sew an extra patchwork square by way of steadying her nerves.
安妮按照自己的意愿闭嘴了。但在这一周剩下的时间里，她谈论着野餐，思考着野餐，梦想着野餐。周六下雨了，她把自己搞得焦躁不安，生怕雨一直下到周三，玛丽拉让她多缝了一块拼布方巾，以稳定她的神经。

On Sunday Anne confided to Marilla on the way home from church that she grew actually cold all over with excitement when the minister announced the picnic from the pulpit.
周日，安妮在从教堂回家的路上向玛丽拉透露，当牧师在讲坛上宣布野餐时，她兴奋得浑身发冷。

‘Such a thrill as went up and down my back, Marilla! I don’t think I’d ever really believed until then that there was honestly going to be a picnic. I couldn’t help fearing I’d only imagined it. But when a minister says a thing in the pulpit you just have to believe it.’
“玛丽拉，我的后背感到如此激动！直到那时我才真正相信会有一次野餐。我不禁担心这只是我的想象。但当牧师在讲坛上说某件事时，你就必须相信它。”

‘You set your heart too much on things, Anne,’ said Marilla, with a sigh. ‘I’m afraid there’ll be a great many disappointments in store for you through life.’
“安妮，你太用心了，”玛丽拉叹了口气说。 “我担心你一生中将会有很多失望。”

‘Oh, Marilla, looking forward to things is half the pleasure of them,’ exclaimed Anne. ‘You mayn’t get the things themselves; but nothing can prevent you from having the fun of looking forward to them. Mrs. Lynde says, ‘Blessed are they who expect nothing for they shall not be disappointed.’ But I think it would be worse to expect nothing than to be disappointed.’
“哦，玛丽拉，期待事物是他们一半的快乐，”安妮惊呼道。 ‘你可能无法得到这些东西本身；但没有什么可以阻止你享受期待它们的乐趣。林德夫人说：“那些不抱任何期望的人是有福的，因为他们不会失望。”但我认为，不抱任何期望比失望更糟糕。

Marilla wore her amethyst brooch to church that day as usual. Marilla always wore her amethyst brooch to church. She would have thought it rather sacrilegious to leave it off—as bad as forgetting her Bible or her collection dime. That amethyst brooch was Marilla’s most treasured possession. A seafaring uncle had given it to her mother who in turn had bequeathed it to Marilla. It was an old-fashioned oval, containing a braid of her mother’s hair, surrounded by a border of very fine amethysts. Marilla knew too little about precious stones to realize how fine the amethysts actually were; but she thought them very beautiful and was always pleasantly conscious of their violet shimmer at her throat, above her good brown satin dress, even although she could not see it.
那天，玛丽拉像往常一样戴着紫水晶胸针去教堂。玛丽拉总是戴着她的紫水晶胸针去教堂。她会认为把它留下来是相当亵渎的——就像忘记她的圣经或她的收藏一毛钱一样糟糕。那枚紫水晶胸针是玛丽拉最珍贵的财产。一位航海叔叔把它送给了她的母亲，而她的母亲又将它遗赠给了玛丽拉。这是一个老式的椭圆形，里面有一条她母亲的辫子，周围镶着一圈非常精美的紫水晶。玛丽拉对宝石知之甚少，无法意识到紫水晶实际上有多精美。但她认为它们非常美丽，并且总是愉快地意识到它们在她喉咙处、在她漂亮的棕色缎子连衣裙上方闪烁着紫罗兰色的光芒，尽管她看不到它。

Anne had been smitten with delighted admiration when she first saw that brooch.
当安妮第一次看到那枚胸针时，她就被欣喜若狂的钦佩所迷住了。

‘Oh, Marilla, it’s a perfectly elegant brooch. I don’t know how you can pay attention to the sermon or the prayers when you have it on. I couldn’t, I know. I think amethysts are just sweet. They are what I used to think diamonds were like. Long ago, before I had ever seen a diamond, I read about them and I tried to imagine what they would be like. I thought they would be lovely glimmering purple stones. When I saw a real diamond in a lady’s ring one day I was so disappointed I cried. Of course, it was very lovely but it wasn’t my idea of a diamond. Will you let me hold the brooch for one minute, Marilla? Do you think amethysts can be the souls of good violets?’
“哦，玛丽拉，这是一枚非常优雅的胸针。我不知道当你戴着它时，你如何能够集中注意力在讲道或祈祷上。我知道，我不能。我认为紫水晶很甜。它们就是我以前认为的钻石的样子。很久以前，在我见过钻石之前，我读过有关它们的文章，并试图想象它们会是什么样子。我以为它们会是可爱的闪闪发光的紫色石头。有一天，当我在一位女士戒指上看到一颗真正的钻石时，我非常失望，我哭了。当然，它非常可爱，但这不是我心目中的钻石。你能让我拿着胸针一分钟吗，玛丽拉？你认为紫水晶可以成为好紫罗兰的灵魂吗？

Chapter XIV
第十四章


Anne’s Confession
安妮的忏悔

ON the Monday evening before the picnic Marilla came down from her room with a troubled face.
周一晚上，野餐前，玛丽拉从房间里走出来，脸上满是困惑。

‘Anne,’ she said to that small personage, who was shelling peas by the spotless table and singing, ‘Nelly of the Hazel Dell’ with a vigor and expression that did credit to Diana’s teaching, ‘did you see anything of my amethyst brooch? I thought I stuck it in my pincushion when I came home from church yesterday evening, but I can’t find it anywhere.’
“安妮，”她对那个小人物说，她正在一尘不染的桌子旁剥豌豆，唱着“榛树谷的耐莉”，她的活力和表情值得戴安娜的教导，“你有没有看到我的紫水晶胸针？” ？我以为昨天晚上从教堂回家时我把它插在了针垫里，但我到处都找不到它。”

‘I—I saw it this afternoon when you were away at the Aid Society,’ said Anne, a little slowly. ‘I was passing your door when I saw it on the cushion, so I went in to look at it.’
“我——我今天下午你去援助协会的时候看到了它，”安妮有点缓慢地说。 “我路过你家门口时，看到垫子上有它，所以我进去看了看。”

‘Did you touch it?’ said Marilla sternly.
“你碰过它吗？”玛丽拉严厉地说。

‘Y-e-e-s,’ admitted Anne, ‘I took it up and I pinned it on my breast just to see how it would look.’
“是的，是的，”安妮承认，“我把它捡起来，别在胸前，只是想看看它是什么样子。”

‘You had no business to do anything of the sort. It’s very wrong in a little girl to meddle. You shouldn’t have gone into my room in the first place and you shouldn’t have touched a brooch that didn’t belong to you in the second. Where did you put it?’
“你无权做这种事。一个小女孩多管闲事是非常错误的。你一开始就不应该进我的房间，其次就不该碰不属于你的胸针。你把它放在哪里了？

‘Oh, I put it back on the bureau. I hadn’t it on a minute. Truly, I didn’t mean to meddle, Marilla. I didn’t think about its being wrong to go in and try on the brooch; but I see now that it was and I’ll never do it again. That’s one good thing about me. I never do the same naughty thing twice.’
“哦，我把它放回书桌上了。我一分钟都没有。说实话，我并不是有意多管闲事，玛丽拉。我并没有想到进去试戴胸针是不对的；但现在我明白了，我再也不会这么做了。这是我的一件好事。我从来不会做同样顽皮的事情两次。

‘You didn’t put it back,’ said Marilla. ‘That brooch isn’t anywhere on the bureau. You’ve taken it out or something, Anne.’
“你没有把它放回去，”玛丽拉说。 “那枚胸针不在办公室的任何地方。你把它拿出来了，安妮。

‘I did put it back,’ said Anne quickly—pertly, Marilla thought. ‘I don’t just remember whether I stuck it on the pincushion or laid it in the china tray. But I’m perfectly certain I put it back.’
“我确实把它放回去了，”安妮很快地说——很得体，玛丽拉想。 “我不只记得我是把它贴在针垫上还是放在瓷盘上。但我完全确定我把它放回去了。

‘I’ll go and have another look,’ said Marilla, determining to be just. ‘If you put that brooch back it’s there still. If it isn’t I’ll know you didn’t, that’s all!’
“我再去看看。”玛丽拉说，决心要公正。 “如果你把那枚胸针放回去，它仍然在那里。如果不是，我就知道你没有，仅此而已！

Marilla went to her room and made a thorough search, not only over the bureau but in every other place she thought the brooch might possibly be. It was not to be found and she returned to the kitchen.
玛丽拉走进自己的房间，彻底搜查了一遍，不仅搜遍了衣柜，还搜遍了她认为胸针可能存在的所有其他地方。没找到，她又回到了厨房。

‘Anne, the brooch is gone. By your own admission you were the last person to handle it. Now, what have you done with it? Tell me the truth at once. Did you take it out and lose it?’
‘安妮，胸针不见了。你自己也承认你是最后一个处理这件事的人。现在，你用它做了什么？立刻告诉我真相。你把它拿出来然后弄丢了吗？

‘No, I didn’t,’ said Anne solemnly, meeting Marilla’s angry gaze squarely. ‘I never took the brooch out of your room and that is the truth, if I was to be led to the block for it—although I’m not very certain what a block is. So there, Marilla.’
“不，我没有，”安妮严肃地说，直视着玛丽拉愤怒的目光。 “我从来没有把胸针带出你的房间，这是事实，如果我被带到街区去拿的话——尽管我不太确定街区是什么。就这样，玛丽拉。”

Anne’s ‘so there’ was only intended to emphasize her assertion, but Marilla took it as a display of defiance.
安妮的“所以就在那里”只是为了强调她的主张，但玛丽拉认为这是一种蔑视的表现。

‘I believe you are telling me a falsehood, Anne,’ she said sharply. ‘I know you are. There now, don’t say anything more unless you are prepared to tell the whole truth. Go to your room and stay there until you are ready to confess.’
“我相信你在告诉我一个谎言，安妮，”她尖锐地说。 '我知道你是。现在，除非你准备好说出全部真相，否则不要再说什么。回到你的房间，呆在那里直到你准备好坦白为止。

‘Will I take the peas with me?’ said Anne meekly.
“我可以带走豌豆吗？”安妮温顺地说。

‘No, I’ll finish shelling them myself. Do as I bid you.’
“不，我会亲自把它们轰掉。”按照我吩咐你的去做。

When Anne had gone Marilla went about her evening tasks in a very disturbed state of mind. She was worried about her valuable brooch. What if Anne had lost it? And how wicked of the child to deny having taken it, when anybody could see she must have! With such an innocent face, too!
安妮走后，玛丽拉心神不安地继续做晚上的事。她担心她那枚珍贵的胸针。如果安妮丢了怎么办？当任何人都知道她一定是拿走了它的时候，这个孩子却否认自己拿走了它，这是多么邪恶啊！还长着一张无辜的脸呢！

‘I don’t know what I wouldn’t sooner have had happen,’ thought Marilla, as she nervously shelled the peas. ‘Of course, I don’t suppose she meant to steal it or anything like that. She’s just taken it to play with or help along that imagination of hers. She must have taken it, that’s clear, for there hasn’t been a soul in that room since she was in it, by her own story, until I went up tonight. And the brooch is gone, there’s nothing surer. I suppose she has lost it and is afraid to own up for fear she’ll be punished. It’s a dreadful thing to think she tells falsehoods. It’s a far worse thing than her fit of temper. It’s a fearful responsibility to have a child in your house you can’t trust. Slyness and untruthfulness—that’s what she has displayed. I declare I feel worse about that than about the brooch. If she’d only have told the truth about it I wouldn’t mind so much.’
“我不知道如果不早点发生什么，”马里拉一边紧张地剥豌豆壳一边想。 “当然，我不认为她打算偷它或类似的东西。她只是用它来发挥或帮助她发挥想象力。很明显，她一定是拿走了它，因为根据她自己的说法，自从她进入那个房间以来，直到我今晚上去之前，那个房间里就没有一个灵魂。胸针不见了，没有什么比这更确定的了。我想她已经失去了它，并且害怕承认自己会受到惩罚。认为她说谎是一件可怕的事情。这比她的脾气要糟糕得多。在家里养一个你无法信任的孩子是一项可怕的责任。狡猾和不诚实——这就是她所表现出来的。我声明我对此的感觉比胸针更糟糕。如果她说的是实话，我就不会太介意。

Marilla went to her room at intervals all through the evening and searched for the brooch, without finding it. A bedtime visit to the east gable produced no result. Anne persisted in denying that she knew anything about the brooch but Marilla was only the more firmly convinced that she did.
整个晚上，玛丽拉时不时地去她的房间寻找那枚胸针，但没有找到。睡前去东山墙拜访没有结果。安妮坚持否认她对这枚胸针一无所知，但玛丽拉更加坚信她知道。

She told Matthew the story the next morning. Matthew was confounded and puzzled; he could not so quickly lose faith in Anne but he had to admit that circumstances were against her.
第二天早上，她把这个故事告诉了马修。马太感到困惑和困惑。他不能这么快就对安妮失去信心，但他不得不承认情况对她不利。

‘You’re sure it hasn’t fell down behind the bureau?’ was the only suggestion he could offer.
“你确定它没有掉到办公室后面吗？”这是他能提供的唯一建议。

‘I’ve moved the bureau and I’ve taken out the drawers and I’ve looked in every crack and cranny’ was Marilla’s positive answer. ‘The brooch is gone and that child has taken it and lied about it. That’s the plain, ugly truth, Matthew Cuthbert, and we might as well look it in the face.’
“我已经搬走了衣柜，拿出了抽屉，我检查了每一个缝隙”，玛丽拉肯定地回答道。 “胸针不见了，那个孩子拿走了它并撒了谎。这是显而易见的、丑陋的事实，马修·库斯伯特，我们不妨正视它。

‘Well now, what are you going to do about it?’ Matthew asked forlornly, feeling secretly thankful that Marilla and not he had to deal with the situation. He felt no desire to put his oar in this time.
“现在，你打算怎么办？”马修凄凉地问道，暗自庆幸是玛丽拉而不是他来应对这种情况。这次他不想划桨了。

‘She’ll stay in her room until she confesses,’ said Marilla grimly, remembering the success of this method in the former case. ‘Then we’ll see. Perhaps we’ll be able to find the brooch if she’ll only tell where she took it; but in any case she’ll have to be severely punished, Matthew.’
“她会待在自己的房间里，直到她认罪。”玛丽拉冷酷地说，她想起了这种方法在前一个案件中的成功。 ‘那么我们拭目以待吧。如果她告诉我们她把胸针拿到哪里了，也许我们就能找到那枚胸针。但无论如何，她都必须受到严厉的惩罚，马修。”

‘Well now, you’ll have to punish her,’ said Matthew, reaching for his hat. ‘I’ve nothing to do with it, remember. You warned me off yourself.’
“现在，你必须惩罚她了，”马修说，伸手去拿帽子。 “记住，我与这件事无关。你自己警告过我。

Marilla felt deserted by everyone. She could not even go to Mrs. Lynde for advice. She went up to the east gable with a very serious face and left it with a face more serious still. Anne steadfastly refused to confess. She persisted in asserting that she had not taken the brooch. The child had evidently been crying and Marilla felt a pang of pity which she sternly repressed. By night she was, as she expressed it, ‘beat out.’
玛丽拉感到被所有人抛弃了。她甚至无法向林德夫人寻求建议。她一脸严肃地登上了东山墙，离开时又一脸严肃。安妮坚决不肯承认。她坚持坚称自己没有拿走胸针。孩子显然一直在哭，玛丽拉感到一阵怜悯，但她强忍住了。用她的话说，到了晚上，她“精疲力竭”。

‘You’ll stay in this room until you confess, Anne. You can make up your mind to that,’ she said firmly.
“安妮，你将一直待在这个房间里，直到你认罪为止。”你可以自己决定。”她坚定地说。

‘But the picnic is tomorrow, Marilla,’ cried Anne. ‘You won’t keep me from going to that, will you? You’ll just let me out for the afternoon, won’t you? Then I’ll stay here as long as you like AFTERWARDS cheerfully. But I MUST go to the picnic.’
“但是野餐是明天，玛丽拉，”安妮喊道。 ‘你不会阻止我去那件事，是吗？你会让我下午出去玩，不是吗？那我就留在这里，只要你愿意，以后就愉快地待下去。但我必须去野餐。

‘You’ll not go to picnics nor anywhere else until you’ve confessed, Anne.’
“安妮，在你坦白之前，你不能去野餐，也不能去其他任何地方。”

‘Oh, Marilla,’ gasped Anne.
“哦，玛丽拉，”安妮喘着气说。

But Marilla had gone out and shut the door.
但玛丽拉已经出去并关上了门。

Wednesday morning dawned as bright and fair as if expressly made to order for the picnic. Birds sang around Green Gables; the Madonna lilies in the garden sent out whiffs of perfume that entered in on viewless winds at every door and window, and wandered through halls and rooms like spirits of benediction. The birches in the hollow waved joyful hands as if watching for Anne’s usual morning greeting from the east gable. But Anne was not at her window. When Marilla took her breakfast up to her she found the child sitting primly on her bed, pale and resolute, with tight-shut lips and gleaming eyes.
星期三的早晨，阳光明媚、晴朗，仿佛是专门为野餐定制的。鸟儿在绿山墙周围歌唱；花园里的圣母百合散发出阵阵香气，随着微风吹进每扇门窗，像祝福的精灵一样在大厅和房间里徘徊。空地里的白桦树快乐地挥舞着双手，仿佛在等待着安妮从东山墙传来的早晨问候。但安妮不在她的窗前。当玛丽拉把早餐端到她面前时，她发现孩子一本正经地坐在她的床上，脸色苍白，表情坚定，嘴唇紧闭，眼睛闪闪发光。

‘Marilla, I’m ready to confess.’
“玛丽拉，我准备好坦白了。”

‘Ah!’ Marilla laid down her tray. Once again her method had succeeded; but her success was very bitter to her. ‘Let me hear what you have to say then, Anne.’
“啊！”玛丽拉放下托盘。她的方法再一次成功了。但她的成功让她感到非常痛苦。 “那么让我听听你要说什么，安妮。”

‘I took the amethyst brooch,’ said Anne, as if repeating a lesson she had learned. ‘I took it just as you said. I didn’t mean to take it when I went in. But it did look so beautiful, Marilla, when I pinned it on my breast that I was overcome by an irresistible temptation. I imagined how perfectly thrilling it would be to take it to Idlewild and play I was the Lady Cordelia Fitzgerald. It would be so much easier to imagine I was the Lady Cordelia if I had a real amethyst brooch on. Diana and I make necklaces of roseberries but what are roseberries compared to amethysts? So I took the brooch. I thought I could put it back before you came home. I went all the way around by the road to lengthen out the time. When I was going over the bridge across the Lake of Shining Waters I took the brooch off to have another look at it. Oh, how it did shine in the sunlight! And then, when I was leaning over the bridge, it just slipped through my fingers—so—and went down—down—down, all purplysparkling, and sank forevermore beneath the Lake of Shining Waters. And that’s the best I can do at confessing, Marilla.’
“我拿走了紫水晶胸针，”安妮说道，仿佛在重复她学到的教训。 ‘我就照你说的做了。我进去的时候并不想拿它。但是，玛丽拉，当我把它别在胸前时，它看起来确实很漂亮，我被一种不可抗拒的诱惑所征服。我想象着如果把它带到艾德怀德并扮演“我是科迪莉亚·菲茨杰拉德夫人”，那将是多么令人兴奋。如果我戴着一枚真正的紫水晶胸针，就会更容易想象我是科迪莉亚夫人。戴安娜和我制作了玫瑰莓项链，但玫瑰莓与紫水晶相比又算什么呢？于是我拿走了胸针。我想在你回家之前我可以把它放回去。我就沿着路绕了一圈，以延长时间。当我走过光辉湖上的桥时，我把胸针取下来再看一眼。哦，它在阳光下闪闪发光！然后，当我靠在桥上时，它就从我的手指间滑落了——就这样——然后下降——下降——下降，闪闪发光，永远沉入闪亮湖水之下。这就是我能做的最好的忏悔，玛丽拉。”

Marilla felt hot anger surge up into her heart again. This child had taken and lost her treasured amethyst brooch and now sat there calmly reciting the details thereof without the least apparent compunction or repentance.
玛丽拉感到火热的怒火再次涌上心头。这个孩子拿走了她心爱的紫水晶胸针，现在却平静地坐在那里，背诵着其中的细节，没有任何明显的内疚或悔恨。

‘Anne, this is terrible,’ she said, trying to speak calmly. ‘You are the very wickedest girl I ever heard of.’
“安妮，这太可怕了，”她试图平静地说。 “你是我听说过的最邪恶的女孩。”

‘Yes, I suppose I am,’ agreed Anne tranquilly. ‘And I know I’ll have to be punished. It’ll be your duty to punish me, Marilla. Won’t you please get it over right off because I’d like to go to the picnic with nothing on my mind.’
“是的，我想是的，”安妮平静地表示同意。 “我知道我将不得不受到惩罚。惩罚我是你的责任，玛丽拉。请你马上把这件事结束好吗？因为我想无忧无虑地去野餐。

‘Picnic, indeed! You’ll go to no picnic today, Anne Shirley. That shall be your punishment. And it isn’t half severe enough either for what you’ve done!’
‘确实是野餐！你今天不去野餐，安妮·雪莉。那将是你的惩罚。对于你所做的事情来说，这还不够严重！”

‘Not go to the picnic!’ Anne sprang to her feet and clutched Marilla’s hand. ‘But you PROMISED me I might! Oh, Marilla, I must go to the picnic. That was why I confessed. Punish me any way you like but that. Oh, Marilla, please, please, let me go to the picnic. Think of the ice cream! For anything you know I may never have a chance to taste ice cream again.’
“不准去野餐！”安妮跳了起来，抓住了玛丽拉的手。 “但你答应过我我会的！”哦，玛丽拉，我必须去野餐。这就是我承认的原因。你可以用任何你喜欢的方式惩罚我，除了那个。哦，玛丽拉，求你了，求你了，让我去野餐吧。想想冰淇淋吧！就你所知，我可能再也没有机会品尝冰淇淋了。

Marilla disengaged Anne’s clinging hands stonily.
玛丽拉冷漠地松开安妮紧握的双手。

‘You needn’t plead, Anne. You are not going to the picnic and that’s final. No, not a word.’
“你不必恳求，安妮。你不会去野餐，这是最后的决定。不，一个字也没有。

Anne realized that Marilla was not to be moved. She clasped her hands together, gave a piercing shriek, and then flung herself face downward on the bed, crying and writhing in an utter abandonment of disappointment and despair.
安妮意识到玛丽拉不能被感动。她双手合十，发出一声刺耳的尖叫，然后脸朝下扑倒在床上，哭泣着，翻滚着，彻底放弃了失望和绝望。

‘For the land’s sake!’ gasped Marilla, hastening from the room. ‘I believe the child is crazy. No child in her senses would behave as she does. If she isn’t she’s utterly bad. Oh dear, I’m afraid Rachel was right from the first. But I’ve put my hand to the plow and I won’t look back.’
“看在土地的份上！”玛丽拉气喘吁吁地跑出房间。 “我相信这孩子疯了。任何有理智的孩子都不会像她那样行事。如果她不是，那就太糟糕了。哦天哪，恐怕雷切尔从一开始就是对的。但我已经把手放在犁上，我不会回头。”

That was a dismal morning. Marilla worked fiercely and scrubbed the porch floor and the dairy shelves when she could find nothing else to do. Neither the shelves nor the porch needed it—but Marilla did. Then she went out and raked the yard.
那是一个令人沮丧的早晨。当玛丽拉无事可做时，她就拼命工作，擦洗门廊的地板和乳品架。架子和门廊都不需要它——但玛丽拉需要。然后她出去清扫院子。

When dinner was ready she went to the stairs and called Anne. A tear-stained face appeared, looking tragically over the banisters.
晚餐准备好后，她走到楼梯上给安妮打电话。一张满是泪水的脸出现了，悲惨地看着栏杆。

‘Come down to your dinner, Anne.’
“下来吃晚饭吧，安妮。”

‘I don’t want any dinner, Marilla,’ said Anne, sobbingly. ‘I couldn’t eat anything. My heart is broken. You’ll feel remorse of conscience someday, I expect, for breaking it, Marilla, but I forgive you. Remember when the time comes that I forgive you. But please don’t ask me to eat anything, especially boiled pork and greens. Boiled pork and greens are so unromantic when one is in affliction.’
“我不想吃晚饭，玛丽拉，”安妮抽泣着说。 ‘我什么也吃不了。我的心碎了。我希望有一天你会因为违背良心而感到自责，玛丽拉，但我原谅你。请记住，到时候我会原谅你。但请不要让我吃任何东西，尤其是煮猪肉和青菜。当一个人处于痛苦之中时，煮猪肉和蔬菜是多么不浪漫。”

Exasperated, Marilla returned to the kitchen and poured out her tale of woe to Matthew, who, between his sense of justice and his unlawful sympathy with Anne, was a miserable man.
玛丽拉愤怒地回到厨房，向马修讲述了她的悲惨故事，马修既有正义感，又有对安妮非法的同情，是一个悲惨的人。

‘Well now, she shouldn’t have taken the brooch, Marilla, or told stories about it,’ he admitted, mournfuly surveying his plateful of unromantic pork and greens as if he, like Anne, thought it a food unsuited to crises of feeling, ‘but she’s such a little thing—such an interesting little thing. Don’t you think it’s pretty rough not to let her go to the picnic when she’s so set on it?’
“好吧，玛丽拉，她不应该拿走胸针，也不应该讲它的故事，”他承认，悲伤地审视着他那盘不浪漫的猪肉和蔬菜，仿佛他和安妮一样，认为这是一种不适合感情危机的食物。 ”，“但她是这样一个小东西——这样一个有趣的小东西。你不觉得在她这么一心想要去野餐的时候不让她去野餐很粗暴吗？

‘Matthew Cuthbert, I’m amazed at you. I think I’ve let her off entirely too easy. And she doesn’t appear to realize how wicked she’s been at all—that’s what worries me most. If she’d really felt sorry it wouldn’t be so bad. And you don’t seem to realize it, neither; you’re making excuses for her all the time to yourself—I can see that.’
“马修·库斯伯特，我对你感到惊讶。我想我太轻易地放过她了。她似乎根本没有意识到自己有多么邪恶——这是我最担心的。如果她真的感到抱歉的话，事情也不会那么糟糕。而你似乎也没有意识到这一点；你总是在自己面前为她找借口——我看得出来。

‘Well now, she’s such a little thing,’ feebly reiterated Matthew. ‘And there should be allowances made, Marilla. You know she’s never had any bringing up.’
“好吧，她只是个小东西，”马修有气无力地重复道。 “而且应该有所宽容，玛丽拉。你知道她从来没有受过任何抚养。

‘Well, she’s having it now’ retorted Marilla.
“好吧，她现在就这样了，”玛丽拉反驳道。

The retort silenced Matthew if it did not convince him. That dinner was a very dismal meal. The only cheerful thing about it was Jerry Buote, the hired boy, and Marilla resented his cheerfulness as a personal insult.
如果马修的反驳不能说服他的话，他就会闭嘴。那顿晚餐吃得非常惨淡。唯一令人高兴的是雇来的男孩杰里·博特，而玛丽拉则认为他的高兴是对他个人的侮辱。

When her dishes were washed and her bread sponge set and her hens fed Marilla remembered that she had noticed a small rent in her best black lace shawl when she had taken it off on Monday afternoon on returning from the Ladies’ Aid.
当她洗完盘子、准备好面包海绵、喂母鸡后，玛丽拉想起，周一下午从妇女救助会回来后，她把最好的黑色蕾丝披肩取下来，发现它有一点小裂痕。

She would go and mend it. The shawl was in a box in her trunk. As Marilla lifted it out, the sunlight, falling through the vines that clustered thickly about the window, struck upon something caught in the shawl—something that glittered and sparkled in facets of violet light. Marilla snatched at it with a gasp. It was the amethyst brooch, hanging to a thread of the lace by its catch!
她会去修补它。围巾放在她行李箱的一个盒子里。当玛丽拉把它拿出来时，阳光透过窗户周围密密麻麻的藤蔓照下来，照在披肩上的某个东西上——某个东西在紫罗兰色的光线中闪闪发光。玛丽拉气喘吁吁地一把抓住了它。那是紫水晶胸针，用扣子挂在蕾丝线上！

‘Dear life and heart,’ said Marilla blankly, ‘what does this mean? Here’s my brooch safe and sound that I thought was at the bottom of Barry’s pond. Whatever did that girl mean by saying she took it and lost it? I declare I believe Green Gables is bewitched. I remember now that when I took off my shawl Monday afternoon I laid it on the bureau for a minute. I suppose the brooch got caught in it somehow. Well!’
“亲爱的生命和心灵，”玛丽拉茫然地说，“这是什么意思？这是我的胸针，安然无恙，我以为它在巴里池塘的底部。那个女孩说她拿了又丢了，这是什么意思？我声明我相信绿山墙被施了魔法。我现在记得，周一下午，当我脱下披肩时，我把它放在梳妆台上一分钟。我想胸针莫名其妙地被卡住了。出色地！'

Marilla betook herself to the east gable, brooch in hand. Anne had cried herself out and was sitting dejectedly by the window.
玛丽拉手里拿着胸针，来到东山墙。安妮哭了出来，沮丧地坐在窗边。

‘Anne Shirley,’ said Marilla solemnly, ‘I’ve just found my brooch hanging to my black lace shawl. Now I want to know what that rigmarole you told me this morning meant.’
“安妮·雪莉，”玛丽拉严肃地说，“我刚刚发现我的胸针挂在我的黑色蕾丝披肩上。现在我想知道你今天早上告诉我的那句废话是什么意思。

‘Why, you said you’d keep me here until I confessed,’ returned Anne wearily, ‘and so I decided to confess because I was bound to get to the picnic. I thought out a confession last night after I went to bed and made it as interesting as I could. And I said it over and over so that I wouldn’t forget it. But you wouldn’t let me go to the picnic after all, so all my trouble was wasted.’
“哎呀，你说过要把我留在这里直到我坦白为止，”安妮疲倦地回答道，“所以我决定坦白，因为我必须要去野餐。昨晚上床睡觉后，我想出了一个坦白，并尽可能让它变得有趣。我一遍又一遍地说，这样我就不会忘记。但你终究不让我去野餐，所以我所有的麻烦都白费了。

Marilla had to laugh in spite of herself. But her conscience pricked her.
玛丽拉忍不住笑了起来。但她的良心却刺痛了她。

‘Anne, you do beat all! But I was wrong—I see that now. I shouldn’t have doubted your word when I’d never known you to tell a story. Of course, it wasn’t right for you to confess to a thing you hadn’t done—it was very wrong to do so. But I drove you to it. So if you’ll forgive me, Anne, I’ll forgive you and we’ll start square again. And now get yourself ready for the picnic.’
‘安妮，你确实打败了一切！但我错了——我现在明白了。当我从来不知道你会讲故事时，我不应该怀疑你的话。当然，你承认自己没有做过的事情是不对的，这样做是非常错误的。但我开车带你去的。所以，如果你原谅我，安妮，我也会原谅你，我们会重新开始。现在准备好去野餐吧。

Anne flew up like a rocket.
安妮像火箭一样飞了起来。

‘Oh, Marilla, isn’t it too late?’
“哦，玛丽拉，是不是太晚了？”

‘No, it’s only two o’clock. They won’t be more than well gathered yet and it’ll be an hour before they have tea. Wash your face and comb your hair and put on your gingham. I’ll fill a basket for you. There’s plenty of stuff baked in the house. And I’ll get Jerry to hitch up the sorrel and drive you down to the picnic ground.’
“不，现在才两点。”他们还没有集合好，还要过一个小时才能喝茶。洗脸，梳头，穿上格子布。我给你装满一篮子。家里有很多烤的东西。我会让杰里挂上栗色车，开车送你去野餐地。”

‘Oh, Marilla,’ exclaimed Anne, flying to the washstand. ‘Five minutes ago I was so miserable I was wishing I’d never been born and now I wouldn’t change places with an angel!’
“哦，玛丽拉，”安妮惊呼道，飞奔到盥洗台前。 “五分钟前我非常痛苦，我希望自己从未出生过，但现在我不会与天使交换位置！”

That night a thoroughly happy, completely tired-out Anne returned to Green Gables in a state of beatification impossible to describe.
那天晚上，安妮非常高兴，但又疲惫不堪，带着一种无法形容的幸福状态回到了绿山墙。

‘Oh, Marilla, I’ve had a perfectly scrumptious time. Scrumptious is a new word I learned today. I heard Mary Alice Bell use it. Isn’t it very expressive? Everything was lovely. We had a splendid tea and then Mr. Harmon Andrews took us all for a row on the Lake of Shining Waters—six of us at a time. And Jane Andrews nearly fell overboard. She was leaning out to pick water lilies and if Mr. Andrews hadn’t caught her by her sash just in the nick of time she’d fallen in and prob’ly been drowned. I wish it had been me. It would have been such a romantic experience to have been nearly drowned. It would be such a thrilling tale to tell. And we had the ice cream. Words fail me to describe that ice cream. Marilla, I assure you it was sublime.’
“哦，玛丽拉，我度过了一段非常美好的时光。美味是我今天学到的一个新词。我听说玛丽·爱丽丝·贝尔用过它。是不是非常具有表现力呢？一切都很可爱。我们喝了一杯美味的茶，然后哈蒙·安德鲁斯先生带我们大家在闪亮水域湖上划船——每次六个人。简·安德鲁斯差点落水。她正探身去摘睡莲，如果安德鲁斯先生没有及时拉住她的腰带，她就会掉进去，很可能会被淹死。我希望是我。差点被淹死真是一种浪漫的经历。这将是一个非常激动人心的故事。我们还吃了冰淇淋。我无法用言语来描述那个冰淇淋。玛丽拉，我向你保证那真是太棒了。

That evening Marilla told the whole story to Matthew over her stocking basket.
那天晚上，玛丽拉通过她的购物篮向马修讲述了整个故事。

‘I’m willing to own up that I made a mistake,’ she concluded candidly, ‘but I’ve learned a lesson. I have to laugh when I think of Anne’s ‘confession,’ although I suppose I shouldn’t for it really was a falsehood. But it doesn’t seem as bad as the other would have been, somehow, and anyhow I’m responsible for it. That child is hard to understand in some respects. But I believe she’ll turn out all right yet. And there’s one thing certain, no house will ever be dull that she’s in.’
“我愿意承认我犯了一个错误，”她坦率地总结道，“但我已经吸取了教训。”当我想到安妮的“坦白”时，我不得不笑，尽管我想我不应该笑，因为这确实是一个谎言。但不知何故，它似​​乎并不像另一个那样糟糕，而且无论如何我都要对此负责。那个孩子在某些方面是很难理解的。但我相信她会一切顺利。有一点是肯定的，有她在的房子永远不会沉闷。

Chapter XV
第十五章


A Tempest in the School Teapot
学校茶壶里的风暴

‘What a splendid day!’ said Anne, drawing a long breath. ‘Isn’t it good just to be alive on a day like this? I pity the people who aren’t born yet for missing it. They may have good days, of course, but they can never have this one. And it’s splendider still to have such a lovely way to go to school by, isn’t it?’
“多么美好的一天啊！”安妮长长地吸了一口气说道。 ‘能在这样的日子里活着不是很好吗？我很遗憾那些还没有出生的人错过了它。当然，他们可能会有美好的日子，但他们永远不会有这样的日子。而且能有这么可爱的方式去上学真是太棒了，不是吗？

‘It’s a lot nicer than going round by the road; that is so dusty and hot,’ said Diana practically, peeping into her dinner basket and mentally calculating if the three juicy, toothsome, raspberry tarts reposing there were divided among ten girls how many bites each girl would have.
“这比在路边绕来绕去要好得多；”又脏又热。”黛安娜一边说，一边偷偷地看着她的餐篮，心里盘算着如果把放在那里的三个多汁、美味的覆盆子馅饼分给十个女孩，每个女孩会咬多少口。

The little girls of Avonlea school always pooled their lunches, and to eat three raspberry tarts all alone or even to share them only with one’s best chum would have forever and ever branded as ‘awful mean’ the girl who did it. And yet, when the tarts were divided among ten girls you just got enough to tantalize you.
埃文利学校的小女孩们总是把午餐集中在一起，独自吃三个覆盆子馅饼，甚至只与最好的朋友分享，都会永远被认为做这件事的女孩“太卑鄙了”。然而，当馅饼分给十个女孩时，你得到的就足以让你着迷了。

The way Anne and Diana went to school WAS a pretty one. Anne thought those walks to and from school with Diana couldn’t be improved upon even by imagination. Going around by the main road would have been so unromantic; but to go by Lover’s Lane and Willowmere and Violet Vale and the Birch Path was romantic, if ever anything was.
安妮和戴安娜上学的方式很漂亮。安妮认为，与戴安娜一起步行上下学的路即使是想象也无法改善。沿着主干道绕行实在是太不浪漫了。但经过情人巷、威洛米尔、紫罗兰谷和白桦林路，如果有什么浪漫的话，那就很浪漫了。

Lover’s Lane opened out below the orchard at Green Gables and stretched far up into the woods to the end of the Cuthbert farm. It was the way by which the cows were taken to the back pasture and the wood hauled home in winter. Anne had named it Lover’s Lane before she had been a month at Green Gables.
情人巷通向绿山墙果园下方，一直延伸到树林中，一直延伸到卡斯伯特农场的尽头。这是在冬天把牛带到后面的牧场和把木头拖回家的方式。安妮在绿山墙呆了一个月之前，就把它命名为情人巷。

‘Not that lovers ever really walk there,’ she explained to Marilla, ‘but Diana and I are reading a perfectly magnificent book and there’s a Lover’s Lane in it. So we want to have one, too. And it’s a very pretty name, don’t you think? So romantic! We can’t imagine the lovers into it, you know. I like that lane because you can think out loud there without people calling you crazy.’
“并不是恋人真正走过那里，”她向玛丽拉解释道，“但戴安娜和我正在读一本非常精彩的书，里面有一条情人巷。”所以我们也想拥有一个。这是一个非常漂亮的名字，你不觉得吗？太浪漫了！你知道，我们无法想象恋人会参与其中。我喜欢那条巷子，因为你可以在那里大声思考，而不会有人说你疯了。”

Anne, starting out alone in the morning, went down Lover’s Lane as far as the brook. Here Diana met her, and the two little girls went on up the lane under the leafy arch of maples—‘maples are such sociable trees,’ said Anne; ‘they’re always rustling and whispering to you’—until they came to a rustic bridge. Then they left the lane and walked through Mr. Barry’s back field and past Willowmere. Beyond Willowmere came Violet Vale—a little green dimple in the shadow of Mr. Andrew Bell’s big woods. ‘Of course there are no violets there now,’ Anne told Marilla, ‘but Diana says there are millions of them in spring. Oh, Marilla, can’t you just imagine you see them? It actually takes away my breath. I named it Violet Vale. Diana says she never saw the beat of me for hitting on fancy names for places. It’s nice to be clever at something, isn’t it? But Diana named the Birch Path. She wanted to, so I let her; but I’m sure I could have found something more poetical than plain Birch Path. Anybody can think of a name like that. But the Birch Path is one of the prettiest places in the world, Marilla.’
安妮早上独自出发，沿着情人巷一直走到小溪边。在这里，黛安娜遇到了她，两个小女孩沿着小巷往前走，在枫叶茂盛的拱门下——“枫树是多么善于交际的树，”安妮说； “他们总是沙沙作响，对你窃窃私语”——直到他们来到一座质朴的桥上。然后他们离开小巷，穿过巴里先生的后场，经过威洛米尔。越过威洛米尔，来到了紫罗兰谷——安德鲁·贝尔先生的大树林阴影下的一个绿色小凹坑。 “当然，现在那里没有紫罗兰了，”安妮告诉玛丽拉，“但戴安娜说春天有数以百万计的紫罗兰。”哦，玛丽拉，你不能想象你看到他们吗？它实际上夺去了我的呼吸。我把它命名为紫罗兰谷。戴安娜说她从来没有见过我会为地名起奇特的名字。在某件事上表现得聪明是件好事，不是吗？但戴安娜将这条路命名为白桦林小径。她愿意，我就让她；但我确信我可以找到比朴素的白桦林更有诗意的东西。任何人都可以想到这样的名字。但白桦林小径是世界上最美丽的地方之一，马里拉。”

It was. Other people besides Anne thought so when they stumbled on it. It was a little narrow, twisting path, winding down over a long hill straight through Mr. Bell’s woods, where the light came down sifted through so many emerald screens that it was as flawless as the heart of a diamond. It was fringed in all its length with slim young birches, white stemmed and lissom boughed; ferns and starflowers and wild lilies-of-the-valley and scarlet tufts of pigeonberries grew thickly along it; and always there was a delightful spiciness in the air and music of bird calls and the murmur and laugh of wood winds in the trees overhead. Now and then you might see a rabbit skipping across the road if you were quiet—which, with Anne and Diana, happened about once in a blue moon. Down in the valley the path came out to the main road and then it was just up the spruce hill to the school.
它是。除了安妮之外，其他人在偶然发现这一点时也是这么认为的。这是一条狭窄而曲折的小路，蜿蜒穿过一座长长的山丘，笔直穿过贝尔先生的树林，那里的光线透过许多翠绿的屏风照射下来，就像钻石的心脏一样完美无瑕。它的四周都长满了细长的白桦树，茎是白色的，枝条是柔软的。蕨类植物、星花、野铃兰和猩红色的鸽子丛沿着它茂密地生长。空气中总是弥漫着令人愉悦的辛香，鸟儿的鸣叫声和头顶上树林里的木风的低语和笑声。如果你安静的话，你有时可能会看到一只兔子跳过马路——这种情况对于安妮和戴安娜来说是千载难逢的。沿着山谷，小路通向主干道，然后沿着云杉山到达学校。

The Avonlea school was a whitewashed building, low in the eaves and wide in the windows, furnished inside with comfortable substantial old-fashioned desks that opened and shut, and were carved all over their lids with the initials and hieroglyphics of three generations of school children. The schoolhouse was set back from the road and behind it was a dusky fir wood and a brook where all the children put their bottles of milk in the morning to keep cool and sweet until dinner hour.
埃文利学校是一栋粉刷成白色的建筑，屋檐低矮，窗户宽阔，里面摆着舒适而坚固的老式课桌，可以打开和关闭，课桌的盖子上刻满了三代学童的姓名首字母和象形文字。 。校舍离马路较远，校舍后面是一片昏暗的冷杉树林和一条小溪，所有的孩子早上都会把牛奶瓶放在那里，以保持凉爽和甜美，直到晚餐时间。

Marilla had seen Anne start off to school on the first day of September with many secret misgivings. Anne was such an odd girl. How would she get on with the other children? And how on earth would she ever manage to hold her tongue during school hours?
九月第一天，玛丽拉看到安妮带着许多秘密的疑虑开始上学。安妮真是个奇怪的女孩。她和其他孩子相处得怎么样？她究竟是如何在上课时间管住自己的嘴的呢？

Things went better than Marilla feared, however. Anne came home that evening in high spirits.
然而事情比玛丽拉担心的要好。那天晚上，安妮兴高采烈地回到家。

‘I think I’m going to like school here,’ she announced. ‘I don’t think much of the master, through. He’s all the time curling his mustache and making eyes at Prissy Andrews. Prissy is grown up, you know. She’s sixteen and she’s studying for the entrance examination into Queen’s Academy at Charlottetown next year. Tillie Boulter says the master is DEAD GONE on her. She’s got a beautiful complexion and curly brown hair and she does it up so elegantly. She sits in the long seat at the back and he sits there, too, most of the time—to explain her lessons, he says. But Ruby Gillis says she saw him writing something on her slate and when Prissy read it she blushed as red as a beet and giggled; and Ruby Gillis says she doesn’t believe it had anything to do with the lesson.’
“我想我会喜欢这里的学校，”她宣布。 “我对主人的评价并不高，确实如此。他总是卷起小胡子，对着普莉西·安德鲁斯眨眼。你知道，普莉西已经长大了。她十六岁了，正在准备明年夏洛特敦女王学院的入学考试。蒂莉·博尔特说主人对她已经死了。她有着美丽的肤色和棕色的卷发，而且她的打扮非常优雅。他说，大部分时间她坐在后面的长椅上，他也坐在那儿——解释她的课程。但鲁比·吉利斯说，她看到他在她的石板上写了一些东西，当普里西读到它时，她脸红得像甜菜一样，咯咯地笑起来；鲁比·吉利斯说她不认为这与这堂课有任何关系。

‘Anne Shirley, don’t let me hear you talking about your teacher in that way again,’ said Marilla sharply. ‘You don’t go to school to criticize the master. I guess he can teach YOU something, and it’s your business to learn. And I want you to understand right off that you are not to come home telling tales about him. That is something I won’t encourage. I hope you were a good girl.’
“安妮·雪莉，别让我听到你再用这种方式谈论你的老师。”玛丽拉尖锐地说。 ‘你去学校不是为了批评老师的。我想他可以教你一些东西，而学习是你的事。我希望你立即明白，你不能回家讲述他的故事。这是我不会鼓励的事情。我希望你是个好女孩。

‘Indeed I was,’ said Anne comfortably. ‘It wasn’t so hard as you might imagine, either. I sit with Diana. Our seat is right by the window and we can look down to the Lake of Shining Waters. There are a lot of nice girls in school and we had scrumptious fun playing at dinnertime. It’s so nice to have a lot of little girls to play with. But of course I like Diana best and always will. I ADORE Diana. I’m dreadfully far behind the others. They’re all in the fifth book and I’m only in the fourth. I feel that it’s kind of a disgrace. But there’s not one of them has such an imagination as I have and I soon found that out. We had reading and geography and Canadian history and dictation today. Mr. Phillips said my spelling was disgraceful and he held up my slate so that everybody could see it, all marked over. I felt so mortified, Marilla; he might have been politer to a stranger, I think. Ruby Gillis gave me an apple and Sophia Sloane lent me a lovely pink card with ‘May I see you home?’ on it. I’m to give it back to her tomorrow. And Tillie Boulter let me wear her bead ring all the afternoon. Can I have some of those pearl beads off the old pincushion in the garret to make myself a ring? And oh, Marilla, Jane Andrews told me that Minnie MacPherson told her that she heard Prissy Andrews tell Sara Gillis that I had a very pretty nose. Marilla, that is the first compliment I have ever had in my life and you can’t imagine what a strange feeling it gave me. Marilla, have I really a pretty nose? I know you’ll tell me the truth.’
“确实如此，”安妮轻松地说。 “这也没有你想象的那么难。我和戴安娜坐在一起。我们的座位就在窗边，可以俯瞰Shining Waters湖。学校里有很多漂亮的女孩，我们在晚餐时玩得很开心。有很多小女孩一起玩真是太好了。但当然，我最喜欢戴安娜，而且永远都会。我喜欢戴安娜。我远远落后于其他人。他们都在第五本书里，而我只在第四本书里。我觉得这是一种耻辱。但他们中没有人像我一样拥有如此丰富的想象力，我很快就发现了这一点。今天我们有阅读、地理、加拿大历史和听写。菲利普斯先生说我的拼写很不光彩，他举起了我的石板，让每个人都可以看到它，全部都被标记了。我感到非常羞愧，玛丽拉；我想他可能对陌生人更有礼貌。鲁比·吉利斯（Ruby Gillis）给了我一个苹果，索菲亚·斯隆（Sophia Sloane）借给我一张可爱的粉色卡片，上面写着“我可以送你回家吗？”。我明天就把它还给她。蒂莉·博尔特让我整个下午都戴着她的串珠戒指。我可以从阁楼上的旧针垫上取下一些珍珠珠来给自己做一枚戒指吗？哦，玛丽拉，简·安德鲁斯告诉我，米妮·麦克弗森告诉她，她听到普里西·安德鲁斯告诉萨拉·吉利斯，我有一个非常漂亮的鼻子。玛丽拉，这是我一生中第一次得到的赞美，你无法想象它给我带来了多么奇怪的感觉。玛丽拉，我的鼻子真的漂亮吗？我知道你会告诉我真相。

‘Your nose is well enough,’ said Marilla shortly. Secretly she thought Anne’s nose was a remarkable pretty one; but she had no intention of telling her so.
“你的鼻子很好，”玛丽拉简短地说。她私下里觉得安妮的鼻子非常漂亮。但她并没有打算告诉她这些。

That was three weeks ago and all had gone smoothly so far. And now, this crisp September morning, Anne and Diana were tripping blithely down the Birch Path, two of the happiest little girls in Avonlea.
那是三周前的事了，到目前为止一切都很顺利。现在，在这个清爽的九月早晨，安妮和戴安娜愉快地沿着白桦林小径漫步，她们是埃文利最快乐的两个小女孩。

‘I guess Gilbert Blythe will be in school today,’ said Diana. ‘He’s been visiting his cousins over in New Brunswick all summer and he only came home Saturday night. He’s AW’FLY handsome, Anne. And he teases the girls something terrible. He just torments our lives out.’
“我猜吉尔伯特·布莱斯今天会去学校，”戴安娜说。 “整个夏天他都在新不伦瑞克省拜访他的表兄弟，周六晚上才回家。他真是太帅了，安妮。他还用一些可怕的东西来戏弄女孩们。他只是折磨我们的生活。

Diana’s voice indicated that she rather liked having her life tormented out than not.
戴安娜的声音表明，她宁愿自己的生活被折磨，也不愿不被折磨。

‘Gilbert Blythe?’ said Anne. ‘Isn’t his name that’s written up on the porch wall with Julia Bell’s and a big ‘Take Notice’ over them?’
“吉尔伯特·布莱斯？”安妮问道。 “门廊墙上不是写着他的名字和朱莉娅·贝尔的名字，上面还写着一个大大的‘请注意’吗？”

‘Yes,’ said Diana, tossing her head, ‘but I’m sure he doesn’t like Julia Bell so very much. I’ve heard him say he studied the multiplication table by her freckles.’
“是的，”戴安娜摇摇头说，“但我确信他不太喜欢朱莉娅·贝尔。我听他说他通过她的雀斑研究乘法表。

‘Oh, don’t speak about freckles to me,’ implored Anne. ‘It isn’t delicate when I’ve got so many. But I do think that writing take-notices up on the wall about the boys and girls is the silliest ever. I should just like to see anybody dare to write my name up with a boy’s. Not, of course,’ she hastened to add, ‘that anybody would.’
“哦，别跟我谈论雀斑，”安妮恳求道。 “我有这么多，这并不脆弱。但我确实认为在墙上写关于男孩和女孩的注意事项是有史以来最愚蠢的。我只是希望看到有人敢把我的名字和男孩的名字写在一起。当然，”她赶紧补充道，“任何人都不会这么做。”

Anne sighed. She didn’t want her name written up. But it was a little humiliating to know that there was no danger of it.
安妮叹了口气。她不想让自己的名字被写下来。但知道没有危险，还是有点羞辱。

‘Nonsense,’ said Diana, whose black eyes and glossy tresses had played such havoc with the hearts of Avonlea schoolboys that her name figured on the porch walls in half a dozen take-notices. ‘It’s only meant as a joke. And don’t you be too sure your name won’t ever be written up. Charlie Sloane is DEAD GONE on you. He told his mother—his MOTHER, mind you—that you were the smartest girl in school. That’s better than being good looking.’
“胡说八道，”戴安娜说，她的黑眼睛和光泽的头发对埃文利学童的心造成了如此大的破坏，以至于她的名字出现在六张注意事项的门廊墙上。 ‘这只是一个玩笑。你也不要太确定你的名字永远不会被写下来。查理·斯隆对你已经死心了。他告诉他的母亲——请注意，他的母亲——你是学校里最聪明的女孩。这比长得好看更好。”

‘No, it isn’t,’ said Anne, feminine to the core. ‘I’d rather be pretty than clever. And I hate Charlie Sloane, I can’t bear a boy with goggle eyes. If anyone wrote my name up with his I’d never GET over it, Diana Barry. But it IS nice to keep head of your class.’
“不，不是的。”安妮的语气充满了女人味。 “我宁愿漂亮也不愿聪明。我讨厌查理·斯隆，我无法忍受一个长着护目镜的男孩。如果有人把我的名字和他的名字写在一起，我永远不会忘记，戴安娜·巴里。但能保持班上的领先地位是件好事。”

‘You’ll have Gilbert in your class after this,’ said Diana, ‘and he’s used to being head of his class, I can tell you. He’s only in the fourth book although he’s nearly fourteen. Four years ago his father was sick and had to go out to Alberta for his health and Gilbert went with him. They were there three years and Gil didn’t go to school hardly any until they came back. You won’t find it so easy to keep head after this, Anne.’
“这之后你的班上就会有吉尔伯特了，”戴安娜说，“我可以告诉你，他已经习惯了当班长。”尽管他已经快十四岁了，但他只出现在第四本书中。四年前，他的父亲生病了，为了健康不得不前往艾伯塔省，吉尔伯特和他一起去了。他们在那里呆了三年，吉尔几乎没有上过学，直到他们回来。安妮，在这之后你会发现保持头脑没那么容易。

‘I’m glad,’ said Anne quickly. ‘I couldn’t really feel proud of keeping head of little boys and girls of just nine or ten. I got up yesterday spelling ‘ebullition.’ Josie Pye was head and, mind you, she peeped in her book. Mr. Phillips didn’t see her—he was looking at Prissy Andrews—but I did. I just swept her a look of freezing scorn and she got as red as a beet and spelled it wrong after all.’
“我很高兴，”安妮很快说道。 “我真的不能为保留九岁或十岁的小男孩和女孩的头感到自豪。昨天我起床拼写“ebullition”。乔西·派伊（Josie Pye）是头，请注意，她偷看了她的书。菲利普斯先生没有看到她——他看着普莉西·安德鲁斯——但我看到了。我只是用冰冷的蔑视目光扫了她一眼，她脸红得像甜菜一样，而且还是拼错了。

‘Those Pye girls are cheats all round,’ said Diana indignantly, as they climbed the fence of the main road. ‘Gertie Pye actually went and put her milk bottle in my place in the brook yesterday. Did you ever? I don’t speak to her now.’
“那些派伊女孩都是骗子，”当她们爬上主路的栅栏时，戴安娜愤怒地说。 “格蒂·派伊昨天确实去把她的奶瓶放在小溪里我的地方了。你曾经？我现在不跟她说话。

When Mr. Phillips was in the back of the room hearing Prissy Andrews’s Latin, Diana whispered to Anne,
当菲利普斯先生在房间后面听到普里西·安德鲁斯的拉丁语时，戴安娜对安妮低声说：

‘That’s Gilbert Blythe sitting right across the aisle from you, Anne. Just look at him and see if you don’t think he’s handsome.’
“那是吉尔伯特·布莱斯，坐在你对面的过道上，安妮。看看他，看看你是否认为他很帅。

Anne looked accordingly. She had a good chance to do so, for the said Gilbert Blythe was absorbed in stealthily pinning the long yellow braid of Ruby Gillis, who sat in front of him, to the back of her seat. He was a tall boy, with curly brown hair, roguish hazel eyes, and a mouth twisted into a teasing smile. Presently Ruby Gillis started up to take a sum to the master; she fell back into her seat with a little shriek, believing that her hair was pulled out by the roots. Everybody looked at her and Mr. Phillips glared so sternly that Ruby began to cry. Gilbert had whisked the pin out of sight and was studying his history with the soberest face in the world; but when the commotion subsided he looked at Anne and winked with inexpressible drollery.
安妮相应地看了看。她有一个很好的机会这样做，因为吉尔伯特·布莱斯正全神贯注地把坐在他前面的鲁比·吉利斯的黄色长辫子偷偷地别在座位后面。他是个高个子男孩，有一头棕色的卷发，一双调皮的淡褐色眼睛，嘴角扭曲着一抹戏谑的微笑。不久，鲁比·吉利斯开始向主人取一笔钱。她尖叫一声倒回座位上，她相信自己的头发被连根拔掉了。每个人都看着她，菲利普斯先生的目光如此严厉，以至于鲁比开始哭泣。吉尔伯特迅速将别针从视线中移开，正以世界上最清醒的表情研究着自己的历史。但当骚动平息后，他看着安妮，用难以形容的滑稽表情眨了眨眼睛。

‘I think your Gilbert Blythe IS handsome,’ confided Anne to Diana, ‘but I think he’s very bold. It isn’t good manners to wink at a strange girl.’
“我认为你的吉尔伯特·布莱斯很帅，”安妮向戴安娜吐露，“但我认为他非常大胆。”对陌生女孩眨眼是不礼貌的行为。

But it was not until the afternoon that things really began to happen.
但直到下午，事情才真正开始发生。

Mr. Phillips was back in the corner explaining a problem in algebra to Prissy Andrews and the rest of the scholars were doing pretty much as they pleased eating green apples, whispering, drawing pictures on their slates, and driving crickets harnessed to strings, up and down aisle. Gilbert Blythe was trying to make Anne Shirley look at him and failing utterly, because Anne was at that moment totally oblivious not only to the very existence of Gilbert Blythe, but of every other scholar in Avonlea school itself. With her chin propped on her hands and her eyes fixed on the blue glimpse of the Lake of Shining Waters that the west window afforded, she was far away in a gorgeous dreamland hearing and seeing nothing save her own wonderful visions.
菲利普斯先生回到角落里，向普里西·安德鲁斯解释代数问题，其余的学者们则在做着他们喜欢做的事，吃着青苹果，窃窃私语，在石板上画画，驱赶着拴在绳子上的蟋蟀，向上飞翔。下过道。吉尔伯特·布莱斯试图让安妮·雪莉看着他，但完全失败了，因为安妮在那一刻不仅完全忘记了吉尔伯特·布莱斯的存在，而且完全忘记了埃文利学校本身的所有其他学者。她双手托着下巴，目光注视着西窗映照出的碧波荡漾的湖水，远远地沉浸在美丽的梦境中，除了自己美妙的幻象之外，什么也看不见。

Gilbert Blythe wasn’t used to putting himself out to make a girl look at him and meeting with failure. She SHOULD look at him, that red-haired Shirley girl with the little pointed chin and the big eyes that weren’t like the eyes of any other girl in Avonlea school.
吉尔伯特·布莱斯（Gilbert Blythe）不习惯为了让女孩看他而付出努力而失败。她应该看着他，那个红头发的雪莉女孩，有着尖尖的下巴和一双大眼睛，与埃文利学校其他女孩的眼睛不同。

Gilbert reached across the aisle, picked up the end of Anne’s long red braid, held it out at arm’s length and said in a piercing whisper:
吉尔伯特伸手穿过过道，拿起安妮长长的红色辫子的末端，将其举到一臂之外，用刺耳的低语说道：

‘Carrots! Carrots!’
'萝卜！萝卜！'

Then Anne looked at him with a vengeance!
然后安妮用复仇的目光看着他！

She did more than look. She sprang to her feet, her bright fancies fallen into cureless ruin. She flashed one indignant glance at Gilbert from eyes whose angry sparkle was swiftly quenched in equally angry tears.
她所做的不仅仅是看起来。她猛地站了起来，她的美好幻想陷入了无可救药的毁灭之中。她愤怒地看了吉尔伯特一眼，那双眼睛里愤怒的光芒很快就被同样愤怒的泪水浇灭了。

‘You mean, hateful boy!’ she exclaimed passionately. ‘How dare you!’
“你是说，可恶的男孩！”她热情地喊道。 '你怎么敢！'

And then—thwack! Anne had brought her slate down on Gilbert’s head and cracked it—slate not head—clear across.
然后——扑通扑通！安妮把她的石板放在吉尔伯特的头上，把它——石板而不是头部——完全打碎了。

Avonlea school always enjoyed a scene. This was an especially enjoyable one. Everybody said ‘Oh’ in horrified delight. Diana gasped. Ruby Gillis, who was inclined to be hysterical, began to cry. Tommy Sloane let his team of crickets escape him altogether while he stared open-mouthed at the tableau.
埃文利学校总是风景如画。这是一件特别令人愉快的事。每个人都惊恐地高兴地“哦”了一声。戴安娜喘着气。鲁比·吉利斯快要歇斯底里了，她哭了起来。汤米·斯隆目瞪口呆地看着这一幕，让他的蟋蟀队完全逃离了他的视线。

Mr. Phillips stalked down the aisle and laid his hand heavily on Anne’s shoulder.
菲利普斯先生大步走过过道，把手重重地放在安妮的肩膀上。

‘Anne Shirley, what does this mean?’ he said angrily. Anne returned no answer. It was asking too much of flesh and blood to expect her to tell before the whole school that she had been called ‘carrots.’ Gilbert it was who spoke up stoutly.
“安妮·雪莉，这是什么意思？”他愤怒地说。安妮没有回答。指望她在全校面前告诉她被称为“胡萝卜”，这对有血有肉的人来说太要求了。是吉尔伯特坚决地说了出来。

‘It was my fault Mr. Phillips. I teased her.’
“这是我的错，菲利普斯先生。我取笑她。

Mr. Phillips paid no heed to Gilbert.
菲利普斯先生没有理会吉尔伯特。

‘I am sorry to see a pupil of mine displaying such a temper and such a vindictive spirit,’ he said in a solemn tone, as if the mere fact of being a pupil of his ought to root out all evil passions from the hearts of small imperfect mortals. ‘Anne, go and stand on the platform in front of the blackboard for the rest of the afternoon.’
“我很遗憾看到我的一个学生表现出这样的脾气和这样的斗气。”他语气严肃地说，仿佛只要是他的学生，就应该根除他们心中所有的邪恶激情。不完美的小凡人。 “安妮，下午剩下的时间都站在黑板前的讲台上。”

Anne would have infinitely preferred a whipping to this punishment under which her sensitive spirit quivered as from a whiplash. With a white, set face she obeyed. Mr. Phillips took a chalk crayon and wrote on the blackboard above her head.
安妮宁愿受到鞭打，也不愿接受这种惩罚，因为在这种惩罚下，她敏感的心灵就像受到鞭打一样颤抖。她脸色苍白，表情坚定，服从了。菲利普斯先生拿起一支粉笔，在她头顶的黑板上写下了一些字。

‘Ann Shirley has a very bad temper. Ann Shirley must learn to control her temper,’ and then read it out loud so that even the primer class, who couldn’t read writing, should understand it.
“安·雪莉的脾气很坏。安·雪莉必须学会控制自己的脾气”，然后大声朗读出来，这样即使是不会读写的初级班也能理解。

Anne stood there the rest of the afternoon with that legend above her. She did not cry or hang her head. Anger was still too hot in her heart for that and it sustained her amid all her agony of humiliation. With resentful eyes and passion-red cheeks she confronted alike Diana’s sympathetic gaze and Charlie Sloane’s indignant nods and Josie Pye’s malicious smiles. As for Gilbert Blythe, she would not even look at him. She would NEVER look at him again! She would never speak to him!!
整个下午，安妮都站在那里，那个传说就在她的上方。她没有哭，也没有低下头。她心中的愤怒仍然太强烈，无法承受这种痛苦，这让她在羞辱的痛苦中支撑着她。她带着怨恨的眼神和热情的红色脸颊，面对着戴安娜同情的目光、查理·斯隆愤怒的点头和乔西·派伊恶意的微笑。至于吉尔伯特·布莱斯，她连看都不看他一眼。她再也不会看他一眼！她绝对不会跟他说话！！

When school was dismissed Anne marched out with her red head held high. Gilbert Blythe tried to intercept her at the porch door.
放学时，安妮高举着红头走出去。吉尔伯特·布莱斯试图在门廊门口拦截她。

‘I’m awfully sorry I made fun of your hair, Anne,’ he whispered contritely. ‘Honest I am. Don’t be mad for keeps, now.’
“我很抱歉我取笑了你的头发，安妮，”他悔恨地低声说道。 ‘我是诚实的。现在别为保留而生气。

Anne swept by disdainfully, without look or sign of hearing. ‘Oh how could you, Anne?’ breathed Diana as they went down the road half reproachfully, half admiringly. Diana felt that SHE could never have resisted Gilbert’s plea.
安妮轻蔑地掠过，看也不看，也没有听见。 “哦，你怎么能这样呢，安妮？”当他们走在路上时，戴安娜半是责备半是钦佩地问道。戴安娜觉得她永远无法拒绝吉尔伯特的恳求。

‘I shall never forgive Gilbert Blythe,’ said Anne firmly. ‘And Mr. Phillips spelled my name without an e, too. The iron has entered into my soul, Diana.’
“我永远不会原谅吉尔伯特·布莱斯，”安妮坚定地说。 “菲利普斯先生也把我的名字拼写成了没有 e 的。”铁已经进入了我的灵魂，戴安娜。

Diana hadn’t the least idea what Anne meant but she understood it was something terrible.
戴安娜根本不明白安妮的意思，但她知道这是一件可怕的事情。

‘You mustn’t mind Gilbert making fun of your hair,’ she said soothingly. ‘Why, he makes fun of all the girls. He laughs at mine because it’s so black. He’s called me a crow a dozen times; and I never heard him apologize for anything before, either.’
“你一定不要介意吉尔伯特取笑你的头发，”她安慰道。 ‘为什么，他取笑所有的女孩。他嘲笑我的，因为它太黑了。他曾多次称我为乌鸦；我以前也从未听过他为任何事情道歉。

‘There’s a great deal of difference between being called a crow and being called carrots,’ said Anne with dignity. ‘Gilbert Blythe has hurt my feelings EXCRUCIATINGLY, Diana.’
“被称为乌鸦和被称为胡萝卜之间有很大的区别，”安妮尊严地说。 “吉尔伯特·布莱斯极大地伤害了我的感情，戴安娜。”

It is possible the matter might have blown over without more excruciation if nothing else had happened. But when things begin to happen they are apt to keep on.
如果没有发生其他事情的话，这件事可能会结束，而不会造成更多痛苦。但当事情开始发生时，它们很容易继续下去。

Avonlea scholars often spent noon hour picking gum in Mr. Bell’s spruce grove over the hill and across his big pasture field. From there they could keep an eye on Eben Wright’s house, where the master boarded. When they saw Mr. Phillips emerging therefrom they ran for the schoolhouse; but the distance being about three times longer than Mr. Wright’s lane they were very apt to arrive there, breathless and gasping, some three minutes too late.
埃文利的学者们经常在中午的时间里在贝尔先生的云杉林里采摘口香糖，林中的云杉林位于山坡上，穿过他的大牧场。从那里他们可以监视埃本赖特的房子，主人就在那里登船。当他们看到菲利普斯先生从里面出来时，他们就跑向校舍。但这段距离大约比赖特先生的车道长三倍，他们很可能气喘吁吁地到达那里，大约晚了三分钟。

On the following day Mr. Phillips was seized with one of his spasmodic fits of reform and announced before going home to dinner, that he should expect to find all the scholars in their seats when he returned. Anyone who came in late would be punished.
第二天，菲利普斯先生突然进行了一次改革，他在回家吃晚饭之前宣布，当他回来时，他应该会发现所有学者都就座。任何迟到的人都会受到惩罚。

All the boys and some of the girls went to Mr. Bell’s spruce grove as usual, fully intending to stay only long enough to ‘pick a chew.’ But spruce groves are seductive and yellow nuts of gum beguiling; they picked and loitered and strayed; and as usual the first thing that recalled them to a sense of the flight of time was Jimmy Glover shouting from the top of a patriarchal old spruce ‘Master’s coming.’
所有的男孩和一些女孩都像往常一样去了贝尔先生的云杉林，完全打算只停留足够长的时间来“摘一口”。但是云杉林很诱人，黄色的口香糖坚果令人着迷;他们采摘、徘徊、迷失；和往常一样，第一件事让他们想起了时间的流逝，是吉米·格洛弗在一棵父权制老云杉树顶上喊道“主人来了。”

The girls who were on the ground, started first and managed to reach the schoolhouse in time but without a second to spare. The boys, who had to wriggle hastily down from the trees, were later; and Anne, who had not been picking gum at all but was wandering happily in the far end of the grove, waist deep among the bracken, singing softly to herself, with a wreath of rice lilies on her hair as if she were some wild divinity of the shadowy places, was latest of all. Anne could run like a deer, however; run she did with the impish result that she overtook the boys at the door and was swept into the schoolhouse among them just as Mr. Phillips was in the act of hanging up his hat.
地面上的女孩们首先出发，并设法及时到达校舍，但没有多余的时间。男孩们后来才到，他们不得不赶紧从树上爬下来。安妮根本没有采过口香糖，而是在小树林的尽头快乐地漫步，在齐腰深的蕨菜丛中，轻声地自言自语，头发上戴着一顶稻百合花环，仿佛她是某种狂野的神灵。阴暗的地方，是最新的。然而，安妮却可以像鹿一样奔跑。她跑了起来，结果顽皮地超过了门口的男孩们，并被卷入校舍，和他们一起，当时菲利普斯先生正在挂帽子。

Mr. Phillips’s brief reforming energy was over; he didn’t want the bother of punishing a dozen pupils; but it was necessary to do something to save his word, so he looked about for a scapegoat and found it in Anne, who had dropped into her seat, gasping for breath, with a forgotten lily wreath hanging askew over one ear and giving her a particularly rakish and disheveled appearance.
菲利普斯先生短暂的改革精力结束了。他不想费心去惩罚十几个学生；但有必要做点什么来兑现他的诺言，所以他四处寻找替罪羊，并在安妮身上找到了替罪羊，安妮跌坐在座位上，气喘吁吁，一只被遗忘的百合花环歪斜地挂在一只耳朵上，给了她一个机会。外表特别潇洒、凌乱。

‘Anne Shirley, since you seem to be so fond of the boys’ company we shall indulge your taste for it this afternoon,’ he said sarcastically. ‘Take those flowers out of your hair and sit with Gilbert Blythe.’
“安妮·雪莉，既然你看起来很喜欢男孩们的陪伴，我们今天下午就满足你的口味，”他讽刺地说。 “把你头发上的花摘下来，和吉尔伯特·布莱斯坐在一起。”

The other boys snickered. Diana, turning pale with pity, plucked the wreath from Anne’s hair and squeezed her hand. Anne stared at the master as if turned to stone.
其他男孩窃笑起来。戴安娜怜悯地脸色苍白，从安妮的头发上摘下花环，握紧了她的手。安妮凝视着主人，仿佛变成了石头。

‘Did you hear what I said, Anne?’ queried Mr. Phillips sternly.
“安妮，你听到我说的话了吗？”菲利普斯先生严厉地问道。

‘Yes, sir,’ said Anne slowly ‘but I didn’t suppose you really meant it.’
“是的，先生，”安妮慢慢地说，“但我不认为你是真心的。”

‘I assure you I did’—still with the sarcastic inflection which all the children, and Anne especially, hated. It flicked on the raw. ‘Obey me at once.’
“我向你保证，我做到了”——仍然带有所有孩子们，尤其是安妮所讨厌的讽刺语气。它在原料上弹动。 “立刻服从我。”

For a moment Anne looked as if she meant to disobey. Then, realizing that there was no help for it, she rose haughtily, stepped across the aisle, sat down beside Gilbert Blythe, and buried her face in her arms on the desk. Ruby Gillis, who got a glimpse of it as it went down, told the others going home from school that she’d ‘acksually never seen anything like it—it was so white, with awful little red spots in it.’
有那么一会儿，安妮看上去似乎有意违抗。然后，意识到没有办法，她傲慢地站起来，跨过过道，在吉尔伯特·布莱斯身边坐下，把脸埋在桌子上的双臂里。鲁比·吉利斯（Ruby Gillis）在它落下时瞥见了它，她告诉其他放学回家的人，她“几乎从未见过这样的东西——它是如此的白色，里面有可怕的小红点。”

To Anne, this was as the end of all things. It was bad enough to be singled out for punishment from among a dozen equally guilty ones; it was worse still to be sent to sit with a boy, but that that boy should be Gilbert Blythe was heaping insult on injury to a degree utterly unbearable. Anne felt that she could not bear it and it would be of no use to try. Her whole being seethed with shame and anger and humiliation.
对于安妮来说，这就是一切的终结。从十几个同样有罪的人中挑出来接受惩罚，这已经够糟糕的了。更糟糕的是被派去和一个男孩坐在一起，但那个男孩应该是吉尔伯特·布莱斯，这简直是侮辱到了完全无法忍受的程度。安妮觉得自己无法忍受，尝试也没用。她的整个人都充满了羞耻、愤怒和屈辱。

At first the other scholars looked and whispered and giggled and nudged. But as Anne never lifted her head and as Gilbert worked fractions as if his whole soul was absorbed in them and them only, they soon returned to their own tasks and Anne was forgotten. When Mr. Phillips called the history class out Anne should have gone, but Anne did not move, and Mr. Phillips, who had been writing some verses ‘To Priscilla’ before he called the class, was thinking about an obstinate rhyme still and never missed her. Once, when nobody was looking, Gilbert took from his desk a little pink candy heart with a gold motto on it, ‘You are sweet,’ and slipped it under the curve of Anne’s arm. Whereupon Anne arose, took the pink heart gingerly between the tips of her fingers, dropped it on the floor, ground it to powder beneath her heel, and resumed her position without deigning to bestow a glance on Gilbert.
起初，其他学者看了看，窃窃私语，咯咯地笑着，用肘碰了碰。但由于安妮从来没有抬起过头，吉尔伯特在计算分数时就好像他的整个灵魂都被它们所吸引，而且只专注于它们，所以他们很快就回到了自己的任务中，安妮被遗忘了。当菲利普斯先生叫历史课下课时，安妮应该走了，但安妮没有动，而菲利普斯先生在叫喊班级之前一直在写一些诗句“致普里西拉”，他仍在思考一个顽固的押韵，但从未想到过。想念她。有一次，趁没人注意的时候，吉尔伯特从办公桌上拿出一颗粉红色的小心形糖果，上面写着金色的座右铭“你很可爱”，然后把它塞到安妮的手臂曲线下。于是安妮站起来，小心翼翼地用指尖夹起粉红色的心，把它扔到地板上，用脚后跟把它磨成粉末，然后又恢复了原来的姿势，连看吉尔伯特一眼都没有。

When school went out Anne marched to her desk, ostentatiously took out everything therein, books and writing tablet, pen and ink, testament and arithmetic, and piled them neatly on her cracked slate.
放学的时候，安妮大步走向自己的课桌，招摇地拿出课桌上的所有东西，书本、写字板、钢笔、墨水、遗嘱和算术，整齐地堆放在她那块有裂缝的石板上。

‘What are you taking all those things home for, Anne?’ Diana wanted to know, as soon as they were out on the road. She had not dared to ask the question before.
“安妮，你把这些东西带回家干什么？”他们一上路，戴安娜就想知道。之前她还不敢问这个问题。

‘I am not coming back to school any more,’ said Anne. Diana gasped and stared at Anne to see if she meant it.
“我不会再回学校了，”安妮说。戴安娜喘着气，盯着安妮看她是否是这个意思。

‘Will Marilla let you stay home?’ she asked.
“玛丽拉会让你呆在家里吗？”她问。

‘She’ll have to,’ said Anne. ‘I’ll NEVER go to school to that man again.’
“她必须这样做，”安妮说。 “我再也不会去那个男人的学校了。”

‘Oh, Anne!’ Diana looked as if she were ready to cry. ‘I do think you’re mean. What shall I do? Mr. Phillips will make me sit with that horrid Gertie Pye—I know he will because she is sitting alone. Do come back, Anne.’
“哦，安妮！”戴安娜看起来好像要哭了。 ‘我确实认为你很卑鄙。我该怎么办？菲利普斯先生会让我和那个可怕的格蒂·派伊坐在一起——我知道他会的，因为她独自坐着。一定要回来，安妮。”

‘I’d do almost anything in the world for you, Diana,’ said Anne sadly. ‘I’d let myself be torn limb from limb if it would do you any good. But I can’t do this, so please don’t ask it. You harrow up my very soul.’
“我愿意为你做任何事情，戴安娜，”安妮悲伤地说。 “如果这对你有好处的话，我愿意让自己被撕成碎片。”但我做不到，所以请不要问。你把我的灵魂都掏空了。

‘Just think of all the fun you will miss,’ mourned Diana. ‘We are going to build the loveliest new house down by the brook; and we’ll be playing ball next week and you’ve never played ball, Anne. It’s tremendously exciting. And we’re going to learn a new song— Jane Andrews is practicing it up now; and Alice Andrews is going to bring a new Pansy book next week and we’re all going to read it out loud, chapter about, down by the brook. And you know you are so fond of reading out loud, Anne.’
“想想你会错过的所有乐趣，”戴安娜哀悼道。 “我们要在小溪边建造最漂亮的新房子；下周我们要打球，而你从来没有打过球，安妮。这非常令人兴奋。我们要学一首新歌——简·安德鲁斯现在正在练习；爱丽丝·安德鲁斯下周将带来一本新的三色堇书，我们都会在小溪边大声朗读它的章节。你知道你非常喜欢大声朗读，安妮。”

Nothing moved Anne in the least. Her mind was made up. She would not go to school to Mr. Phillips again; she told Marilla so when she got home.
没有什么能打动安妮。她已经下定决心了。她不会再去菲利普斯先生的学校了；当玛丽拉回到家时，她就这样告诉了她。

‘Nonsense,’ said Marilla.
“胡说，”玛丽拉说。

‘It isn’t nonsense at all,’ said Anne, gazing at Marilla with solemn, reproachful eyes. ‘Don’t you understand, Marilla? I’ve been insulted.’
“这根本不是胡说八道，”安妮说道，用严肃而责备的眼神看着玛丽拉。 “你还不明白吗，玛丽拉？我被侮辱了。

‘Insulted fiddlesticks! You’ll go to school tomorrow as usual.’
‘侮辱小提琴手！明天你会像往常一样去学校。”

‘Oh, no.’ Anne shook her head gently. ‘I’m not going back, Marilla. ‘I’ll learn my lessons at home and I’ll be as good as I can be and hold my tongue all the time if it’s possible at all. But I will not go back to school, I assure you.’
“哦，不。”安妮轻轻摇头。 “我不会回去，玛丽拉。 “我会在家里吸取教训，我会尽我所能，尽可能地保持沉默。”但我向你保证，我不会再回学校了。”

Marilla saw something remarkably like unyielding stubbornness looking out of Anne’s small face. She understood that she would have trouble in overcoming it; but she re-solved wisely to say nothing more just then. ‘I’ll run down and see Rachel about it this evening,’ she thought. ‘There’s no use reasoning with Anne now. She’s too worked up and I’ve an idea she can be awful stubborn if she takes the notion. Far as I can make out from her story, Mr. Phillips has been carrying matters with a rather high hand. But it would never do to say so to her. I’ll just talk it over with Rachel. She’s sent ten children to school and she ought to know something about it. She’ll have heard the whole story, too, by this time.’
玛丽拉从安妮的小脸上看到了一种非常不屈的固执。她知道自己很难克服这个困难；但她明智地决定不再多说什么。 “今晚我会跑去见瑞秋，讨论这件事，”她想。 “现在跟安妮讲道理是没有用的。”她太激动了，我觉得如果她接受这个想法，她会变得非常固执。据我从她的故事中可以看出，菲利普斯先生一直在以相当高的手段处理事情。但对她这么说是不行的。我会和雷切尔讨论一下。她送了十个孩子上学，她应该知道一些。这个时候她也会听到整个故事。

Marilla found Mrs. Lynde knitting quilts as industriously and cheerfully as usual.
马里拉发现林德太太像往常一样勤奋、愉快地织被子。

‘I suppose you know what I’ve come about,’ she said, a little shamefacedly.
“我想你知道我是怎么来的，”她有点羞愧地说。

Mrs. Rachel nodded.
雷切尔夫人点点头。

‘About Anne’s fuss in school, I reckon,’ she said. ‘Tillie Boulter was in on her way home from school and told me about it.’ ‘I don’t know what to do with her,’ said Marilla. ‘She declares she won’t go back to school. I never saw a child so worked up. I’ve been expecting trouble ever since she started to school. I knew things were going too smooth to last. She’s so high strung. What would you advise, Rachel?’
“我想是安妮在学校里大惊小怪的原因，”她说。 “蒂莉·博尔特在放学回家的路上告诉了我这件事。”“我不知道该怎么处置她，”玛丽拉说。 “她宣称她不会再回学校了。我从来没有见过一个孩子如此激动。自从她上学以来，我就一直期待着遇到麻烦。我知道事情进展得太顺利，难以持久。她太紧张了。你有什么建议，雷切尔？

‘Well, since you’ve asked my advice, Marilla,’ said Mrs. Lynde amiably—Mrs. Lynde dearly loved to be asked for advice—‘I’d just humor her a little at first, that’s what I’d do. It’s my belief that Mr. Phillips was in the wrong. Of course, it doesn’t do to say so to the children, you know. And of course he did right to punish her yesterday for giving way to temper. But today it was different. The others who were late should have been punished as well as Anne, that’s what. And I don’t believe in making the girls sit with the boys for punishment. It isn’t modest. Tillie Boulter was real indignant. She took Anne’s part right through and said all the scholars did too. Anne seems real popular among them, somehow. I never thought she’d take with them so well.’
“好吧，既然你征求了我的意见，玛丽拉，”林德夫人和蔼可亲地说。林德非常喜欢别人征求建议——“一开始我只是稍微迁就一下她，我就是这么做的。”我相信菲利普斯先生错了。当然，你知道，对孩子们这么说是不行的。当然，他昨天因为她发脾气而惩罚她是正确的。但今天情况有所不同。其他迟到的人应该和安妮一样受到惩罚，就是这样。我也不认为让女孩和男孩坐在一起来接受惩罚。这并不谦虚。蒂莉·博尔特真的很愤怒。她完全接受了安妮的观点，并说所有学者也都这么做了。不知何故，安妮似乎在他们中间很受欢迎。我从没想过她能这么好地接受他们。

‘Then you really think I’d better let her stay home,’ said Marilla in amazement.
“那你真的认为我最好让她呆在家里，”玛丽拉惊讶地说。

‘Yes. That is I wouldn’t say school to her again until she said it herself. Depend upon it, Marilla, she’ll cool off in a week or so and be ready enough to go back of her own accord, that’s what, while, if you were to make her go back right off, dear knows what freak or tantrum she’d take next and make more trouble than ever. The less fuss made the better, in my opinion. She won’t miss much by not going to school, as far as THAT goes. Mr. Phillips isn’t any good at all as a teacher. The order he keeps is scandalous, that’s what, and he neglects the young fry and puts all his time on those big scholars he’s getting ready for Queen’s. He’d never have got the school for another year if his uncle hadn’t been a trustee—THE trustee, for he just leads the other two around by the nose, that’s what. I declare, I don’t know what education in this Island is coming to.’
'是的。也就是说，在她自己说之前，我不会再对她说“学校”。靠吧，玛丽拉，一周左右她就会冷静下来，准备好自己回去，那就是这样，而如果你要让她马上回去，亲爱的知道什么是怪胎或发脾气她接下来会制造比以往更多的麻烦。在我看来，越少大惊小怪越好。就目前而言，不去上学她不会错过太多。菲利普斯先生根本不是什么好老师。他所遵守的秩序是可耻的，就是这样，他忽视了年轻的鱼苗，把所有的时间都花在了那些他正在为女王学院做准备的大学者身上。如果他的叔叔不是受托人，他就不可能再在学校呆上一年——受托人，因为他只是牵着另外两个人的鼻子走，就是这样。我声明，我不知道这个岛上的教育会变成什么样子。

Mrs. Rachel shook her head, as much as to say if she were only at the head of the educational system of the Province things would be much better managed.
雷切尔夫人摇摇头，似乎在说，如果她只是省教育系统的负责人，事情会管理得更好。

Marilla took Mrs. Rachel’s advice and not another word was said to Anne about going back to school. She learned her lessons at home, did her chores, and played with Diana in the chilly purple autumn twilights; but when she met Gilbert Blythe on the road or encountered him in Sunday school she passed him by with an icy contempt that was no whit thawed by his evident desire to appease her. Even Diana’s efforts as a peacemaker were of no avail. Anne had evidently made up her mind to hate Gilbert Blythe to the end of life.
马里拉采纳了雷切尔夫人的建议，没有再对安妮说要回学校。她在家学习功课，做家务，并在寒冷的紫色秋暮中与戴安娜一起玩耍。但当她在路上遇到吉尔伯特·布莱斯或在主日学校遇到他时，她带着冰冷的蔑视从他身边走过，而他显然想安抚她，这种蔑视丝毫没有融化。就连戴安娜作为和事佬的努力也无济于事。安妮显然已经下定决心要恨吉尔伯特·布莱斯直至生命的尽头。

As much as she hated Gilbert, however, did she love Diana, with all the love of her passionate little heart, equally intense in its likes and dislikes. One evening Marilla, coming in from the orchard with a basket of apples, found Anne sitting along by the east window in the twilight, crying bitterly.
然而，尽管她恨吉尔伯特，但她也爱戴安娜，用她那颗充满激情的小心来爱她，爱和不爱同样强烈。一天晚上，玛丽拉提着一篮子苹果从果园回来，发现安妮在暮色中坐在东窗边痛哭。

‘Whatever’s the matter now, Anne?’ she asked.
“安妮，现在怎么了？”她问道。

‘It’s about Diana,’ sobbed Anne luxuriously. ‘I love Diana so, Marilla. I cannot ever live without her. But I know very well when we grow up that Diana will get married and go away and leave me. And oh, what shall I do? I hate her husband—I just hate him furiously. I’ve been imagining it all out—the wedding and everything—Diana dressed in snowy garments, with a veil, and looking as beautiful and regal as a queen; and me the bridesmaid, with a lovely dress too, and puffed sleeves, but with a breaking heart hid beneath my smiling face. And then bidding Diana goodbye-e-e—‘ Here Anne broke down entirely and wept with increasing bitterness.
“是关于戴安娜的事，”安妮奢华地抽泣着。 “我非常爱戴安娜，玛丽拉。没有她我就活不下去。但我很清楚，当我们长大后，戴安娜会结婚，离开我，离开我。哦，我该怎么办？我恨她的丈夫——我只是非常恨他。我一直在想象这一切——婚礼和一切——戴安娜穿着雪白的衣服，戴着面纱，看起来像女王一样美丽而高贵；我是伴娘，也穿着可爱的裙子和泡泡袖，但微笑的脸庞下隐藏着一颗破碎的心。然后向戴安娜告别——e-e——”说到这里，安妮完全崩溃了，哭得越来越痛苦。

Marilla turned quickly away to hide her twitching face; but it was no use; she collapsed on the nearest chair and burst into such a hearty and unusual peal of laughter that Matthew, crossing the yard outside, halted in amazement. When had he heard Marilla laugh like that before?
玛丽拉迅速转过身来隐藏她抽搐的脸。但没有用；她倒在最近的一张椅子上，爆发出一阵热烈而不同寻常的笑声，马修穿过外面的院子，惊讶地停了下来。他什么时候听过玛丽拉这样笑过？

‘Well, Anne Shirley,’ said Marilla as soon as she could speak, ‘if you must borrow trouble, for pity’s sake borrow it handier home. I should think you had an imagination, sure enough.’
“好吧，安妮·雪莉，”玛丽拉一会说话就说道，“如果你一定要借麻烦，看在怜悯的份上，就借回家吧。”我想你肯定有想象力。”

Chapter XVI
第十六章


Diana Is Invited to Tea with Tragic Results
戴安娜受邀参加茶会，结果悲惨

OCTOBER was a beautiful month at Green Gables, when the birches in the hollow turned as golden as sunshine and the maples behind the orchard were royal crimson and the wild cherry trees along the lane put on the loveliest shades of dark red and bronzy green, while the fields sunned themselves in aftermaths.
十月对于绿山墙来说是一个美丽的月份，山谷中的白桦树变成了阳光般的金色，果园后面的枫树呈现出高贵的深红色，小巷两旁的野樱桃树呈现出最可爱的深红色和青铜绿色，而灾后田野晒起了太阳。

Anne reveled in the world of color about her.
安妮陶醉于她周围的色彩世界。

‘Oh, Marilla,’ she exclaimed one Saturday morning, coming dancing in with her arms full of gorgeous boughs’ ‘I’m so glad I live in a world where there are Octobers. It would be terrible if we just skipped from September to November, wouldn’t it? Look at these maple branches. Don’t they give you a thrill—several thrills? I’m going to decorate my room with them.’
“哦，玛丽拉，”一个星期六的早晨，她抱着满是华丽树枝的舞蹈走进来，大声说道，“我很高兴我生活在一个有十月的世界。如果我们直接从 9 月跳到 11 月，那就太糟糕了，不是吗？看看这些枫树枝。难道它们没有给你带来刺激吗——好几种刺激？我要用它们来装饰我的房间。

‘Messy things,’ said Marilla, whose aesthetic sense was not noticeably developed. ‘You clutter up your room entirely too much with out-of-doors stuff, Anne. Bedrooms were made to sleep in.’
“乱七八糟的东西，”玛丽拉说，她的审美意识还没有明显发展。 “你把你的房间弄得太多户外物品了，安妮。卧室是用来睡觉的。

‘Oh, and dream in too, Marilla. And you know one can dream so much better in a room where there are pretty things. I’m going to put these boughs in the old blue jug and set them on my table.’
“噢，还有梦，玛丽拉。你知道，在一个有漂亮东西的房间里，一个人可以更好地梦想。我要把这些树枝放进旧的蓝色罐子里，然后放在我的桌子上。

‘Mind you don’t drop leaves all over the stairs then. I’m going on a meeting of the Aid Society at Carmody this afternoon, Anne, and I won’t likely be home before dark. You’ll have to get Matthew and Jerry their supper, so mind you don’t forget to put the tea to draw until you sit down at the table as you did last time.’
“注意别把树叶掉得满楼梯都是。”安妮，今天下午我要去卡莫迪参加援助协会的会议，天黑之前我不太可能回家。你得给马修和杰瑞准备晚餐，所以请注意，在你像上次一样坐在桌边之前，不要忘记倒茶。”

‘It was dreadful of me to forget,’ said Anne apologetically, ‘but that was the afternoon I was trying to think of a name for Violet Vale and it crowded other things out. Matthew was so good. He never scolded a bit. He put the tea down himself and said we could wait awhile as well as not. And I told him a lovely fairy story while we were waiting, so he didn’t find the time long at all. It was a beautiful fairy story, Marilla. I forgot the end of it, so I made up an end for it myself and Matthew said he couldn’t tell where the join came in.’
“我很害怕忘记，”安妮抱歉地说，“但那天下午，我正试图为紫罗兰谷想一个名字，却把其他事情排挤掉了。马修太棒了。他从来没有骂过一句。他亲自把茶放下，说我们可以等一会儿，也可以不等。在等待的时候我给他讲了一个可爱的童话故事，所以他觉得时间并不长。这是一个美丽的童话故事，玛丽拉。我忘记了它的结尾，所以我自己给它编了一个结尾，马修说他不知道连接是从哪里来的。

‘Matthew would think it all right, Anne, if you took a notion to get up and have dinner in the middle of the night. But you keep your wits about you this time. And—I don’t really know if I’m doing right—it may make you more addlepated than ever—but you can ask Diana to come over and spend the afternoon with you and have tea here.’
“安妮，如果你想在半夜起床吃晚饭，马修会认为这没问题。但这次你保持理智。而且——我真的不知道我做得对不对——这可能会让你比以往任何时候都更糊涂——但你可以邀请戴安娜过来和你一起度过一个下午，并在这里喝茶。

‘Oh, Marilla!’ Anne clasped her hands. ‘How perfectly lovely! You ARE able to imagine things after all or else you’d never have understood how I’ve longed for that very thing. It will seem so nice and grown-uppish. No fear of my forgetting to put the tea to draw when I have company. Oh, Marilla, can I use the rosebud spray tea set?’
“哦，玛丽拉！”安妮紧握双手。 ‘多么可爱啊！毕竟你能够想象事情，否则你永远不会理解我是多么渴望那件事。看起来会很漂亮而且很成熟。不怕我有伴的时候忘记放茶了。哦，玛丽拉，我可以使用玫瑰花蕾喷雾茶具吗？

‘No, indeed! The rosebud tea set! Well, what next? You know I never use that except for the minister or the Aids. You’ll put down the old brown tea set. But you can open the little yellow crock of cherry preserves. It’s time it was being used anyhow—I believe it’s beginning to work. And you can cut some fruit cake and have some of the cookies and snaps.’
‘不，确实如此！玫瑰花蕾茶具！嗯，接下来怎么办？你知道，除了部长或艾滋之外，我从不使用它。你会放下旧的棕色茶具。但你可以打开装樱桃蜜饯的黄色小罐。无论如何，现在是时候使用它了——我相信它已经开始发挥作用了。你可以切一些水果蛋糕，吃一些饼干和脆饼。

‘I can just imagine myself sitting down at the head of the table and pouring out the tea,’ said Anne, shutting her eyes ecstatically. ‘And asking Diana if she takes sugar! I know she doesn’t but of course I’ll ask her just as if I didn’t know. And then pressing her to take another piece of fruit cake and another helping of preserves. Oh, Marilla, it’s a wonderful sensation just to think of it. Can I take her into the spare room to lay off her hat when she comes? And then into the parlor to sit?’
“我可以想象自己坐在桌首，倒茶，”安妮欣喜若狂地闭上眼睛说道。 “并询问戴安娜是否吃糖！”我知道她不知道，但我当然会像不知道一样问她。然后催促她再拿一块水果蛋糕和一份蜜饯。哦，玛丽拉，光是想想就感觉很美妙。当她来的时候我可以带她去空房间脱帽子吗？然后进客厅坐下？

‘No. The sitting room will do for you and your company. But there’s a bottle half full of raspberry cordial that was left over from the church social the other night. It’s on the second shelf of the sitting-room closet and you and Diana can have it if you like, and a cooky to eat with it along in the afternoon, for I daresay Matthew’ll be late coming in to tea since he’s hauling potatoes to the vessel.’
'不。客厅适合您和您的公司。但有一瓶半满的覆盆子甜酒，是那天晚上教堂社交活动留下的。它在客厅壁橱的第二个架子上，如果你愿意的话，你和戴安娜可以拿走它，还有下午可以一起吃的饼干，因为我敢说马修会迟到，因为他正在拖土豆。到船上。

Anne flew down to the hollow, past the Dryad’s Bubble and up the spruce path to Orchard Slope, to ask Diana to tea. As a result just after Marilla had driven off to Carmody, Diana came over, dressed in HER second-best dress and looking exactly as it is proper to look when asked out to tea. At other times she was wont to run into the kitchen without knocking; but now she knocked primly at the front door. And when Anne, dressed in her second best, as primly opened it, both little girls shook hands as gravely as if they had never met before. This unnatural solemnity lasted until after Diana had been taken to the east gable to lay off her hat and then had sat for ten minutes in the sitting room, toes in position.
安妮飞下山谷，经过树妖泡泡，沿着云杉小径来到果园坡，请戴安娜喝茶。结果，就在玛丽拉开车去卡莫迪后，戴安娜就过来了，穿着她第二好的衣服，看起来完全符合被邀请出去喝茶时的样子。其他时候，她习惯不敲门就跑进厨房。但现在她一本正经地敲了敲前门。当安妮穿着她第二好的衣服，一本正经地打开门时，两个小女孩严肃地握手，就好像她们以前从未见过面一样。这种不自然的庄严一直持续到戴安娜被带到东山墙脱下帽子，然后在客厅里坐了十分钟，脚趾就位。

‘How is your mother?’ inquired Anne politely, just as if she had not seen Mrs. Barry picking apples that morning in excellent health and spirits.
“你妈妈怎么样？”安妮礼貌地问道，就好像她没有看到巴里夫人那天早上摘苹果时身体健康，精神抖擞。

‘She is very well, thank you. I suppose Mr. Cuthbert is hauling potatoes to the LILY SANDS this afternoon, is he?’ said Diana, who had ridden down to Mr. Harmon Andrews’s that morning in Matthew’s cart.
‘她很好，谢谢。 “我猜库斯伯特先生今天下午正在把土豆拖到百合沙滩，是吗？”戴安娜说，她那天早上坐着马修的马车去了哈蒙·安德鲁斯先生家。

‘Yes. Our potato crop is very good this year. I hope your father’s crop is good too.’
'是的。今年我们的马铃薯收成很好。我希望你父亲的收成也好。

‘It is fairly good, thank you. Have you picked many of your apples yet?’
‘这相当不错，谢谢。你摘了很多苹果了吗？

‘Oh, ever so many,’ said Anne forgetting to be dignified and jumping up quickly. ‘Let’s go out to the orchard and get some of the Red Sweetings, Diana. Marilla says we can have all that are left on the tree. Marilla is a very generous woman. She said we could have fruit cake and cherry preserves for tea. But it isn’t good manners to tell your company what you are going to give them to eat, so I won’t tell you what she said we could have to drink. Only it begins with an R and a C and it’s bright red color. I love bright red drinks, don’t you? They taste twice as good as any other color.’
“哦，真是太多了。”安妮忘记了尊严，飞快地跳了起来。 “戴安娜，我们去果园买一些红色糖果吧。”玛丽拉说我们可以拥有树上剩下的所有东西。玛丽拉是一个非常慷慨的女人。她说我们可以吃水果蛋糕和樱桃蜜饯茶。但告诉你的公司你要给他们吃什么是不礼貌的，所以我不会告诉你她说我们必须喝什么。只是它以 R 和 C 开头，而且是鲜红色的。我喜欢鲜红色的饮料，你呢？它们的味道是其他颜色的两倍。”

The orchard, with its great sweeping boughs that bent to the ground with fruit, proved so delightful that the little girls spent most of the afternoon in it, sitting in a grassy corner where the frost had spared the green and the mellow autumn sunshine lingered warmly, eating apples and talking as hard as they could. Diana had much to tell Anne of what went on in school. She had to sit with Gertie Pye and she hated it; Gertie squeaked her pencil all the time and it just made her—Diana’s—blood run cold; Ruby Gillis had charmed all her warts away, true’s you live, with a magic pebble that old Mary Joe from the Creek gave her. You had to rub the warts with the pebble and then throw it away over your left shoulder at the time of the new moon and the warts would all go. Charlie Sloane’s name was written up with Em White’s on the porch wall and Em White was AWFUL MAD about it; Sam Boulter had ‘sassed’ Mr. Phillips in class and Mr. Phillips whipped him and Sam’s father came down to the school and dared Mr. Phillips to lay a hand on one of his children again; and Mattie Andrews had a new red hood and a blue crossover with tassels on it and the airs she put on about it were perfectly sickening; and Lizzie Wright didn’t speak to Mamie Wilson because Mamie Wilson’s grown-up sister had cut out Lizzie Wright’s grown-up sister with her beau; and everybody missed Anne so and wished she’s come to school again; and Gilbert Blythe—
果园里的大树枝垂到地上，结满了果实，真是令人愉快，小女孩们整个下午都在里面度过，坐在草地的一角，霜冻没有绿意，柔和的秋日阳光温暖地徘徊着。 ，一边吃苹果，一边用力说话。戴安娜有很多事情要告诉安妮学校里发生的事情。她不得不和格蒂·派伊坐在一起，但她讨厌这样。格蒂的铅笔总是发出吱吱的声音，这让她——戴安娜——浑身发冷。鲁比·吉利斯用来自小溪的老玛丽·乔送给她的一块神奇的鹅卵石，把她所有的疣都祛除了，你还活着。你必须用鹅卵石擦疣，然后在新月的时候把它扔到左肩上，疣就会消失。查理·斯隆的名字和艾姆·怀特的名字一起写在门廊的墙上，艾姆·怀特对此非常生气。萨姆·博尔特在课堂上“辱骂”了菲利普斯先生，菲利普斯先生鞭打了他，萨姆的父亲来到学校，挑战菲利普斯先生再次对他的一个孩子下手；玛蒂·安德鲁斯 (Mattie Andrews) 戴着一顶新的红色兜帽，穿着一件带有流苏的蓝色交叉背心，她的神态非常令人作呕。莉齐·赖特（Lizzie Wright）没有和玛米·威尔逊（Mamie Wilson）说话，因为玛米·威尔逊（Mamie Wilson）成年的姐姐已经把莉齐·赖特（Lizzie Wright）成年的妹妹和她的男友分开了；每个人都非常想念安妮，并希望她能再次回到学校；和吉尔伯特·布莱斯——

But Anne didn’t want to hear about Gilbert Blythe. She jumped up hurriedly and said suppose they go in and have some raspberry cordial.
但安妮不想听到吉尔伯特·布莱斯的事。她急忙跳起来说，咱们进去喝点覆盆子甜酒吧。

Anne looked on the second shelf of the room pantry but there was no bottle of raspberry cordial there . Search revealed it away back on the top shelf. Anne put it on a tray and set it on the table with a tumbler.
安妮查看了房间食品储藏室的第二个架子，但那里没有一瓶覆盆子甜酒。搜索后发现它又回到了最上面的架子上。安妮把它放在托盘上，然后用玻璃杯放在桌子上。

‘Now, please help yourself, Diana,’ she said politely. ‘I don’t believe I’ll have any just now. I don’t feel as if I wanted any after all those apples.’
“现在，请随意，戴安娜，”她礼貌地说。 “我不相信我现在会有任何东西。”看完这些苹果后，我觉得我不再想要任何苹果了。

Diana poured herself out a tumblerful, looked at its bright-red hue admiringly, and then sipped it daintily.
戴安娜给自己倒了一杯，钦佩地看着它鲜红的颜色，然后优雅地抿了一口。

‘That’s awfully nice raspberry cordial, Anne,’ she said. ‘I didn’t know raspberry cordial was so nice.’
“安妮，那是非常美味的覆盆子甜酒，”她说。 “我不知道覆盆子甜酒这么好喝。”

‘I’m real glad you like it. Take as much as you want. I’m going to run out and stir the fire up. There are so many responsibilities on a person’s mind when they’re keeping house, isn’t there?’
‘我真的很高兴你喜欢它。你想要多少就拿多少。我要跑出去把火煽起来。当一个人持家时，心里有很多责任，不是吗？

When Anne came back from the kitchen Diana was drinking her second glassful of cordial; and, being entreated thereto by Anne, she offered no particular objection to the drinking of a third. The tumblerfuls were generous ones and the raspberry cordial was certainly very nice.
当安妮从厨房回来时，戴安娜正在喝第二杯甜酒。在安妮的恳求下，她并没有特别反对第三个人喝酒。玻璃杯的量很大，覆盆子甜酒确实非常好喝。

‘The nicest I ever drank,’ said Diana. ‘It’s ever so much nicer than Mrs. Lynde’s, although she brags of hers so much. It doesn’t taste a bit like hers.’
“这是我喝过的最好喝的酒，”戴安娜说。 “它比林德夫人的好得多，尽管她非常吹嘘自己的。”它的味道一点也不像她的。

‘I should think Marilla’s raspberry cordial would prob’ly be much nicer than Mrs. Lynde’s,’ said Anne loyally. ‘Marilla is a famous cook. She is trying to teach me to cook but I assure you, Diana, it is uphill work. There’s so little scope for imagination in cookery. You just have to go by rules. The last time I made a cake I forgot to put the flour in. I was thinking the loveliest story about you and me, Diana. I thought you were desperately ill with smallpox and everybody deserted you, but I went boldly to your bedside and nursed you back to life; and then I took the smallpox and died and I was buried under those poplar trees in the graveyard and you planted a rosebush by my grave and watered it with your tears; and you never, never forgot the friend of your youth who sacrificed her life for you. Oh, it was such a pathetic tale, Diana. The tears just rained down over my cheeks while I mixed the cake. But I forgot the flour and the cake was a dismal failure. Flour is so essential to cakes, you know. Marilla was very cross and I don’t wonder. I’m a great trial to her. She was terribly mortified about the pudding sauce last week. We had a plum pudding for dinner on Tuesday and there was half the pudding and a pitcherful of sauce left over. Marilla said there was enough for another dinner and told me to set it on the pantry shelf and cover it. I meant to cover it just as much as could be, Diana, but when I carried it in I was imagining I was a nun—of course I’m a Protestant but I imagined I was a Catholic—taking the veil to bury a broken heart in cloistered seclusion; and I forgot all about covering the pudding sauce. I thought of it next morning and ran to the pantry. Diana, fancy if you can my extreme horror at finding a mouse drowned in that pudding sauce! I lifted the mouse out with a spoon and threw it out in the yard and then I washed the spoon in three waters. Marilla was out milking and I fully intended to ask her when she came in if I’d give the sauce to the pigs; but when she did come in I was imagining that I was a frost fairy going through the woods turning the trees red and yellow, whichever they wanted to be, so I never thought about the pudding sauce again and Marilla sent me out to pick apples. Well, Mr. and Mrs. Chester Ross from Spencervale came here that morning. You know they are very stylish people, especially Mrs. Chester Ross. When Marilla called me in dinner was all ready and everybody was at the table. I tried to be as polite and dignified as I could be, for I wanted Mrs. Chester Ross to think I was a ladylike little girl even if I wasn’t pretty. Everything went right until I saw Marilla coming with the plum pudding in one hand and the pitcher of pudding sauce WARMED UP, in the other. Diana, that was a terrible moment. I remembered everything and I just stood up in my place and shrieked out ‘Marilla, you mustn’t use that pudding sauce. There was a mouse drowned in it. I forgot to tell you before.’ Oh, Diana, I shall never forget that awful moment if I live to be a hundred. Mrs. Chester Ross just LOOKED at me and I thought I would sink through the floor with mortification. She is such a perfect housekeeper and fancy what she must have thought of us. Marilla turned red as fire but she never said a word—then. She just carried that sauce and pudding out and brought in some strawberry preserves. She even offered me some, but I couldn’t swallow a mouthful. It was like heaping coals of fire on my head. After Mrs. Chester Ross went away, Marilla gave me a dreadful scolding. Why, Diana, what is the matter?’
“我想玛丽拉的覆盆子甜酒可能比林德夫人的好得多，”安妮忠诚地说。 “玛丽拉是一位著名的厨师。她正在尝试教我做饭，但我向你保证，戴安娜，这是一项艰巨的工作。烹饪的想象空间太小了。你只需要遵守规则即可。上次我做蛋糕时忘记放面粉了。我在想关于你和我的最可爱的故事，戴安娜。我以为你得了天花，病得很重，所有人都抛弃了你，但我勇敢地走到你的床边，护理你，让你起死回生；然后我得了天花死了，我被埋在墓地的那些白杨树下，你在我的坟墓旁种了一丛玫瑰，用你的眼泪浇灌它；你永远永远不会忘记你年轻时的朋友，她为你牺牲了生命。哦，这真是一个可悲的故事，戴安娜。当我搅拌蛋糕时，泪水从我的脸颊上流下来。但我忘记了面粉，蛋糕彻底失败了。你知道，面粉对于蛋糕来说是非常重要的。玛丽拉非常生气，我并不奇怪。我对她来说是一个很大的考验。上周她对布丁酱感到非常羞愧。周二的晚餐我们吃了李子布丁，还剩下一半的布丁和一罐酱汁。玛丽拉说还有足够的钱再吃一顿晚餐，并让我把它放在食品储藏室的架子上并盖上盖子。我本想尽可能多地遮盖它，戴安娜，但当我把它戴进去时，我想象自己是一名修女——当然我是一名新教徒，但我想象自己是一名天主教徒——带着面纱埋葬了一个破碎的人。心在与世隔绝；我忘了盖布丁酱。第二天早上我想到了这一点，就跑到食品储藏室。戴安娜，如果你能想象一下，我发现一只老鼠淹死在布丁酱里时感到极度恐惧！ 我用勺子把老鼠捞出来，扔到院子里，然后用三水把勺子洗了一遍。玛丽拉出去挤奶了，我很想在她进来时问她是否愿意把酱汁给猪吃；但她没有这么做。但当她进来时，我想象自己是一位冰霜仙子，穿过树林，把树木变成红色和黄色，无论它们想变成什么，所以我再也没有想过布丁酱，玛丽拉让我出去摘苹果。嗯，那天早上，来自斯宾塞维尔的切斯特·罗斯先生和夫人来到了这里。你知道他们都是非常时尚的人，尤其是切斯特·罗斯夫人。当玛丽拉打电话给我时，晚餐已经准备好了，每个人都在餐桌旁。我尽量表现得有礼貌、有尊严，因为我想让切斯特·罗斯夫人认为我是一个淑女般的小女孩，即使我不漂亮。一切都很顺利，直到我看到玛丽拉一手拿着李子布丁，另一只手拿着一罐热好的布丁酱。戴安娜，那是一个可怕的时刻。我记起了一切，我只是站在原地尖叫着‘玛丽拉，你不能用布丁酱。里面有一只老鼠被淹死了。我之前忘了告诉你。’哦，戴安娜，如果我活到一百岁，我永远不会忘记那个可怕的时刻。切斯特·罗斯夫人只是看着我，我想我会羞愧地沉入地板。她是一位完美的管家，她一定对我们有什么看法。玛丽拉的脸涨得通红，但她什么也没说——然后。她只是把酱汁和布丁搬了出去，还带了一些草莓蜜饯进来。她甚至给了我一些，但我一口都咽不下去。这就像把炭堆堆在我的头上。切斯特·罗斯夫人走后，玛丽拉狠狠地责骂了我一顿。为什么，戴安娜，怎么了？’

Diana had stood up very unsteadily; then she sat down again, putting her hands to her head.
戴安娜站起来时摇摇晃晃。然后她又坐下来，双手捂着头。

‘I’m—I’m awful sick,’ she said, a little thickly. ‘I—I—must go right home.’
“我——我病得很厉害，”她声音有点粗哑地说。 “我——我——必须马上回家。”

‘Oh, you mustn’t dream of going home without your tea,’ cried Anne in distress. ‘I’ll get it right off—I’ll go and put the tea down this very minute.’
“噢，你别想不喝茶就回家。”安妮痛苦地喊道。 “我马上去拿——我马上就去把茶放下。”

‘I must go home,’ repeated Diana, stupidly but determinedly.
“我必须回家。”戴安娜愚蠢但坚定地重复道。

‘Let me get you a lunch anyhow,’ implored Anne. ‘Let me give you a bit of fruit cake and some of the cherry preserves. Lie down on the sofa for a little while and you’ll be better. Where do you feel bad?’
“无论如何，让我给你弄一顿午餐吧。”安妮恳求道。 “我给你一点水果蛋糕和一些樱桃蜜饯。在沙发上躺一会儿，就会好一些。你哪里感觉不舒服？

‘I must go home,’ said Diana, and that was all she would say. In vain Anne pleaded.
“我必须回家了，”戴安娜说，这就是她只会说的话。安妮徒劳地恳求。

‘I never heard of company going home without tea,’ she mourned. ‘Oh, Diana, do you suppose that it’s possible you’re really taking the smallpox? If you are I’ll go and nurse you, you can depend on that. I’ll never forsake you. But I do wish you’d stay till after tea. Where do you feel bad?’
“我从来没有听说过有人不喝茶就回家，”她哀叹道。 “哦，戴安娜，你认为你真的可能感染了天花吗？如果你是的话，我会去护理你，你可以信赖这一点。我永远不会抛弃你。但我确实希望你能留下来直到喝完茶。你哪里感觉不舒服？

‘I’m awful dizzy,’ said Diana.
“我头晕得很厉害，”戴安娜说。

And indeed, she walked very dizzily. Anne, with tears of disappointment in her eyes, got Diana’s hat and went with her as far as the Barry yard fence. Then she wept all the way back to Green Gables, where she sorrowfully put the remainder of the raspberry cordial back into the pantry and got tea ready for Matthew and Jerry, with all the zest gone out of the performance.
确实，她走得非常头晕。安妮眼里含着失望的泪水，拿起戴安娜的帽子，跟着她一直走到巴里院子的栅栏前。然后她一路哭着回到绿山墙，悲伤地把剩下的覆盆子甜酒放回食品储藏室，为马修和杰瑞准备茶，表演的所有热情都消失了。

The next day was Sunday and as the rain poured down in torrents from dawn till dusk Anne did not stir abroad from Green Gables. Monday afternoon Marilla sent her down to Mrs. Lynde’s on an errand. In a very short space of time Anne came flying back up the lane with tears rolling down her cheeks. Into the kitchen she dashed and flung herself face downward on the sofa in an agony.
第二天是星期天，从黎明到黄昏，倾盆大雨倾盆而下，安妮在绿山墙外一动不动。星期一下午，玛丽拉派她去林德太太家办事。不久之后，安妮飞快地飞回小巷，泪水从她的脸颊上滚落下来。她冲进厨房，痛苦地脸朝下倒在沙发上。

‘Whatever has gone wrong now, Anne?’ queried Marilla in doubt and dismay. ‘I do hope you haven’t gone and been saucy to Mrs. Lynde again.’
“安妮，现在出了什么问题吗？”玛丽拉疑惑而沮丧地问道。 “我真希望你没有再对林德太太调皮。”

No answer from Anne save more tears and stormier sobs!
安妮没有回答，除了更多的眼泪和更大的抽泣！

‘Anne Shirley, when I ask you a question I want to be answered. Sit right up this very minute and tell me what you are crying about.’
“安妮·雪莉，当我问你一个问题时，我希望得到答案。现在就坐起来，告诉我你在哭什么。”

Anne sat up, tragedy personified.
安妮坐了起来，一副悲剧的化身。

‘Mrs. Lynde was up to see Mrs. Barry today and Mrs. Barry was in an awful state,’ she wailed. ‘She says that I set Diana DRUNK Saturday and sent her home in a disgraceful condition. And she says I must be a thoroughly bad, wicked little girl and she’s never, never going to let Diana play with me again. Oh, Marilla, I’m just overcome with woe.’
'太太。林德今天要去见巴里夫人，巴里夫人的情况很糟糕，”她哭着说。 “她说我周六让戴安娜喝醉了，然后让她在不光彩的情况下回家。她说我一定是一个非常坏、邪恶的小女孩，她永远、永远不会再让戴安娜和我玩了。哦，玛丽拉，我只是悲痛欲绝。”

Marilla stared in blank amazement.
玛丽拉茫然地惊讶地看着。

‘Set Diana drunk!’ she said when she found her voice. ‘Anne are you or Mrs. Barry crazy? What on earth did you give her?’
“让戴安娜喝醉！”当她找到自己的声音时说道。 “安妮，你还是巴里夫人疯了吗？”你到底给了她什么？

‘Not a thing but raspberry cordial,’ sobbed Anne. ‘I never thought raspberry cordial would set people drunk, Marilla—not even if they drank three big tumblerfuls as Diana did. Oh, it sounds so—so—like Mrs. Thomas’s husband! But I didn’t mean to set her drunk.’
“什么都不是，只是覆盆子甜酒。”安妮抽泣着说道。 “我从没想过覆盆子甜酒会让人们喝醉，玛丽拉——即使他们像戴安娜那样喝了三大杯也不会。哦，听起来太——太——像托马斯太太的丈夫了！但我并不是故意让她喝醉的。”

‘Drunk fiddlesticks!’ said Marilla, marching to the sitting room pantry. There on the shelf was a bottle which she at once recognized as one containing some of her three-year-old homemade currant wine for which she was celebrated in Avonlea, although certain of the stricter sort, Mrs. Barry among them, disapproved strongly of it. And at the same time Marilla recollected that she had put the bottle of raspberry cordial down in the cellar instead of in the pantry as she had told Anne.
“喝醉了的小提琴！”玛丽拉一边说，一边大步走向起居室的食品储藏室。架子上有一瓶她立刻认出，里面装的是她陈了三年的自制醋栗酒，她因此而在埃文利受到庆祝，尽管巴里夫人等一些比较严格的人强烈反对这种酒。它。与此同时，玛丽拉想起她把那瓶覆盆子甜酒放在地窖里，而不是像她告诉安妮的那样放在食品储藏室里。

She went back to the kitchen with the wine bottle in her hand. Her face was twitching in spite of herself.
她手里拿着酒瓶，回到了厨房。她的脸不由自主地抽搐起来。

‘Anne, you certainly have a genius for getting into trouble. You went and gave Diana currant wine instead of raspberry cordial. Didn’t you know the difference yourself?’
‘安妮，你确实有惹麻烦的天赋。你给了戴安娜醋栗酒而不是覆盆子甜酒。难道你自己不知道其中的区别吗？

‘I never tasted it,’ said Anne. ‘I thought it was the cordial. I meant to be so—so—hospitable. Diana got awfully sick and had to go home. Mrs. Barry told Mrs. Lynde she was simply dead drunk. She just laughed silly-like when her mother asked her what was the matter and went to sleep and slept for hours. Her mother smelled her breath and knew she was drunk. She had a fearful headache all day yesterday. Mrs. Barry is so indignant. She will never believe but what I did it on purpose.’
“我从来没有尝过，”安妮说。 “我以为那是甜酒。我本想表现得如此——如此——热情好客。戴安娜病得很重，不得不回家。巴里夫人告诉林德夫人，她只是喝醉了。当她妈妈问她怎么了时，她只是傻笑，然后就睡了，一睡就是几个小时。母亲闻到她的呼吸味，知道她喝醉了。昨天她一整天都头痛得厉害。巴里夫人非常愤怒。她永远不会相信我是故意这么做的。”

‘I should think she would better punish Diana for being so greedy as to drink three glassfuls of anything,’ said Marilla shortly. ‘Why, three of those big glasses would have made her sick even if it had only been cordial. Well, this story will be a nice handle for those folks who are so down on me for making currant wine, although I haven’t made any for three years ever since I found out that the minister didn’t approve. I just kept that bottle for sickness. There, there, child, don’t cry. I can’t see as you were to blame although I’m sorry it happened so.’
“我认为她最好惩罚戴安娜，因为她贪得无厌，什么都喝了三杯，”玛丽拉简短地说。 ‘哎呀，即使只是亲切的，三副大眼镜也会让她感到恶心。好吧，对于那些因为我酿造醋栗酒而对我如此失望的人来说，这个故事将是一个很好的句柄，尽管自从我发现部长不批准以来，我已经三年没有酿造醋栗酒了。我只是为了生病而保留了那瓶酒。好了，好了，孩子，别哭。我不认为你应该受到责备，尽管我很抱歉发生这样的事情。

‘I must cry,’ said Anne. ‘My heart is broken. The stars in their courses fight against me, Marilla. Diana and I are parted forever. Oh, Marilla, I little dreamed of this when first we swore our vows of friendship.’
“我必须哭，”安妮说。 '我的心碎了。他们课程中的明星们与我作战，玛丽拉。戴安娜和我永远分开了。哦，玛丽拉，当我们第一次宣誓建立友谊时，我几乎没有想到这一点。

‘Don’t be foolish, Anne. Mrs. Barry will think better of it when she finds you’re not to blame. I suppose she thinks you’ve done it for a silly joke or something of that sort. You’d best go up this evening and tell her how it was.’
“别犯傻了，安妮。当巴里夫人发现你不应该受到责备时，她会考虑更好的。我想她认为你这样做是为了一个愚蠢的笑话或类似的事情。你最好今晚上去告诉她情况如何。

‘My courage fails me at the thought of facing Diana’s injured mother,’ sighed Anne. ‘I wish you’d go, Marilla. You’re so much more dignified than I am. Likely she’d listen to you quicker than to me.’
“一想到要面对戴安娜受伤的母亲，我就失去了勇气，”安妮叹了口气。 “我希望你能走，玛丽拉。你比我有尊严得多。很可能她会比我更快地听你的。

‘Well, I will,’ said Marilla, reflecting that it would probably be the wiser course. ‘Don’t cry any more, Anne. It will be all right.’
“好吧，我会的，”玛丽拉说，她认为这可能是更明智的做法。 “别再哭了，安妮。一切都会好起来的。

Marilla had changed her mind about it being all right by the time she got back from Orchard Slope. Anne was watching for her coming and flew to the porch door to meet her.
当玛丽拉从果园坡回来时，她改变了主意，认为一切都好。安妮正在等待她的到来，飞奔到门廊门口迎接她。

‘Oh, Marilla, I know by your face that it’s been no use,’ she said sorrowfully. ‘Mrs. Barry won’t forgive me?’
“哦，玛丽拉，从你的表情我就知道这是没有用的，”她悲伤地说。 '太太。巴里不会原谅我吗？

‘Mrs. Barry indeed!’ snapped Marilla. ‘Of all the unreasonable women I ever saw she’s the worst. I told her it was all a mistake and you weren’t to blame, but she just simply didn’t believe me. And she rubbed it well in about my currant wine and how I’d always said it couldn’t have the least effect on anybody. I just told her plainly that currant wine wasn’t meant to be drunk three tumblerfuls at a time and that if a child I had to do with was so greedy I’d sober her up with a right good spanking.’
'太太。确实是巴里！”玛丽拉厉声说道。 “在我见过的所有不讲道理的女人中，她是最糟糕的。我告诉她这都是一个错误，你不应该受到责备，但她就是不相信我。她还反复强调了我的醋栗酒，以及我总是说它不会对任何人产生丝毫影响。我只是坦白地告诉她，醋栗酒不适合一次喝三杯，如果我养的一个孩子太贪吃，我会好好地打她屁股，让她清醒过来。”

Marilla whisked into the kitchen, grievously disturbed, leaving a very much distracted little soul in the porch behind her. Presently Anne stepped out bareheaded into the chill autumn dusk; very determinedly and steadily she took her way down through the sere clover field over the log bridge and up through the spruce grove, lighted by a pale little moon hanging low over the western woods. Mrs. Barry, coming to the door in answer to a timid knock, found a white-lipped eager-eyed suppliant on the doorstep.
玛丽拉迅速走进厨房，心神不安，留下一个心烦意乱的小灵魂留在她身后的门廊上。不久，安妮光着头走进寒冷的秋日黄昏。她坚定而坚定地沿着独木桥向下穿过荒凉的三叶草田，向上穿过云杉林，一轮苍​​白的小月低悬在西边的树林上空，照亮了云杉林。巴里夫人来到门口，听见有人胆怯地敲门，她发现门阶上站着一个白唇、眼神热切的恳求者。

Her face hardened. Mrs. Barry was a woman of strong prejudices and dislikes, and her anger was of the cold, sullen sort which is always hardest to overcome. To do her justice, she really believed Anne had made Diana drunk out of sheer malice prepense,??? and she was honestly anxious to preserve her little daughter from the contamination of further intimacy with such a child.
她的脸色变得严肃起来。巴里夫人是一个有着强烈偏见和厌恶的女人，她的愤怒是冷酷、阴沉的，总是最难克服的。公平地说，她真的相信安妮让戴安娜喝醉是出于纯粹的恶意预谋，？？？老实说，她很想保护她的小女儿免受与这样一个孩子进一步亲密接触的污染。

‘What do you want?’ she said stiffly.
“你想要什么？”她生硬地说。

Anne clasped her hands.
安妮双手合十。

‘Oh, Mrs. Barry, please forgive me. I did not mean to—to—intoxicate Diana. How could I? Just imagine if you were a poor little orphan girl that kind people had adopted and you had just one bosom friend in all the world. Do you think you would intoxicate her on purpose? I thought it was only raspberry cordial. I was firmly convinced it was raspberry cordial. Oh, please don’t say that you won’t let Diana play with me any more. If you do you will cover my life with a dark cloud of woe.’
“哦，巴里夫人，请原谅我。我并不是故意要让戴安娜陶醉。我怎么能？想象一下，如果你是一个被好心人收养的可怜的小孤女，而你在世界上只有一个知音。你以为你是故意让她喝醉的吗？我以为这只是覆盆子甜酒。我坚信这是覆盆子甜酒。哦，请不要说你不会再让戴安娜和我一起玩了。如果你这样做，你就会给我的生活蒙上一层悲伤的乌云。

This speech which would have softened good Mrs. Lynde’s heart in a twinkling, had no effect on Mrs. Barry except to irritate her still more. She was suspicious of Anne’s big words and dramatic gestures and imagined that the child was making fun of her. So she said, coldly and cruelly:
这番话本来可以瞬间软化善良的林德夫人的心，但对巴里夫人却没有任何作用，只是让她更加恼火。她对安妮的豪言壮语和戏剧性的动作表示怀疑，并认为这个孩子是在取笑她。于是她冷酷而残忍地说：

‘I don’t think you are a fit little girl for Diana to associate with. You’d better go home and behave yourself.’
“我认为你不是一个适合戴安娜交往的小女孩。你最好回家好好表现一下。”

Anne’s lips quivered.
安妮的嘴唇颤抖着。

‘Won’t you let me see Diana just once to say farewell?’ she implored.
“你不能让我见戴安娜一次并告别吗？”她恳求道。

‘Diana has gone over to Carmody with her father,’ said Mrs. Barry, going in and shutting the door.
“戴安娜已经和她父亲一起去了卡莫迪，”巴里夫人说着走进去，关上了门。

Anne went back to Green Gables calm with despair.
安妮带着绝望平静地回到了绿山墙。

‘My last hope is gone,’ she told Marilla. ‘I went up and saw Mrs. Barry myself and she treated me very insultingly. Marilla, I do NOT think she is a well-bred woman. There is nothing more to do except to pray and I haven’t much hope that that’ll do much good because, Marilla, I do not believe that God Himself can do very much with such an obstinate person as Mrs. Barry.’
“我最后的希望破灭了，”她告诉玛丽拉。 “我上去见了巴里夫人，她非常侮辱我。玛丽拉，我不认为她是一个有教养的女人。除了祈祷，我没有什么可做的，我不太希望这会带来多大好处，因为，玛丽拉，我不相信上帝自己能对像巴里夫人这样固执的人做很多事情。

‘Anne, you shouldn’t say such things’ rebuked Marilla, striving to overcome that unholy tendency to laughter which she was dismayed to find growing upon her. And indeed, when she told the whole story to Matthew that night, she did laugh heartily over Anne’s tribulations.
“安妮，你不应该说这样的话。”玛丽拉责备道，努力克服那种邪恶的笑声，她沮丧地发现这种笑声正在她身上蔓延。事实上，那天晚上，当她向马修讲述整个故事时，她确实为安妮的磨难而开怀大笑。

But when she slipped into the east gable before going to bed and found that Anne had cried herself to sleep an unaccustomed softness crept into her face.
但当她在睡觉前溜进东山墙时，发现安妮已经哭着睡着了，一种不寻常的温柔爬上了她的脸。

‘Poor little soul,’ she murmured, lifting a loose curl of hair from the child’s tear-stained face. Then she bent down and kissed the flushed cheek on the pillow.
“可怜的小灵魂，”她低声说道，从孩子泪流满面的脸上撩起一卷松散的头发。然后她弯下腰，吻了吻枕头上泛红的脸颊。

Chapter XVII
第十七章


A New Interest in Life
生活新兴趣

THE next afternoon Anne, bending over her patchwork at the kitchen window, happened to glance out and beheld Diana down by the Dryad’s Bubble beckoning mysteriously. In a trice Anne was out of the house and flying down to the hollow, astonishment and hope struggling in her expressive eyes. But the hope faded when she saw Diana’s dejected countenance.
第二天下午，安妮在厨房的窗户前弯下腰，看着拼凑而成的衣服，碰巧向外瞥了一眼，看到戴安娜在树妖的泡泡旁边神秘地招手。刹那间，安妮走出了房子，飞向了空地，她那双富有​​表情的眼睛里充满了惊讶和希望。但当她看到戴安娜沮丧的表情时，希望破灭了。

‘Your mother hasn’t relented?’ she gasped.
“你母亲还没有心软吗？”她喘着气说道。

Diana shook her head mournfully.
戴安娜悲伤地摇摇头。

‘No; and oh, Anne, she says I’m never to play with you again. I’ve cried and cried and I told her it wasn’t your fault, but it wasn’t any use. I had ever such a time coaxing her to let me come down and say good-bye to you. She said I was only to stay ten minutes and she’s timing me by the clock.’
'不;哦，安妮，她说我再也不会和你一起玩了。我哭了又哭，告诉她这不是你的错，但这没有任何用处。我曾经有过这样的时候，哄过她让我下来和你告别。她说我只待十分钟，她按时钟给我计时。

‘Ten minutes isn’t very long to say an eternal farewell in,’ said Anne tearfully. ‘Oh, Diana, will you promise faithfully never to forget me, the friend of your youth, no matter what dearer friends may caress thee?’
“十分钟对于说永远的告别来说并不算长，”安妮泪流满面地说。 “哦，戴安娜，你能忠实地保证永远不会忘记我，你年轻时的朋友，无论亲爱的朋友如何爱抚你吗？”

‘Indeed I will,’ sobbed Diana, ‘and I’ll never have another bosom friend—I don’t want to have. I couldn’t love anybody as I love you.’
“我确实会的，”黛安娜抽泣着，“我再也不会有另一个知心朋友了——我不想有。”我不能像爱你那样爱任何人。

‘Oh, Diana,’ cried Anne, clasping her hands, ‘do you LOVE me?’
“哦，戴安娜，”安妮双手合十喊道，“你爱我吗？”

‘Why, of course I do. Didn’t you know that?’
‘为什么，我当然知道。你不知道吗？

‘No.’ Anne drew a long breath. ‘I thought you LIKED me of course but I never hoped you LOVED me. Why, Diana, I didn’t think anybody could love me. Nobody ever has loved me since I can remember. Oh, this is wonderful! It’s a ray of light which will forever shine on the darkness of a path severed from thee, Diana. Oh, just say it once again.’
“不。”安妮长长地吸了一口气。 “我当然以为你喜欢我，但我从不希望你爱我。为什么，戴安娜，我不认为有人会爱我。自从我记事起，就没有人爱过我。哦，这太棒了！这是一束光芒，将永远照亮与你隔绝的黑暗道路，戴安娜。哦，再说一遍。

‘I love you devotedly, Anne,’ said Diana stanchly, ‘and I always will, you may be sure of that.’
“我全心全意地爱你，安妮，”戴安娜坚定地说，“我永远都会爱你，你可以确信这一点。”

‘And I will always love thee, Diana,’ said Anne, solemnly extending her hand. ‘In the years to come thy memory will shine like a star over my lonely life, as that last story we read together says. Diana, wilt thou give me a lock of thy jet-black tresses in parting to treasure forevermore?’
“我将永远爱你，戴安娜，”安妮庄严地伸出手说道。 “在未来的岁月里，你的记忆将像星星一样闪耀在我孤独的生活中，正如我们一起读的最后一个故事所说的那样。戴安娜，你愿意给我一绺乌黑的长发，作为我永远的珍藏吗？

‘Have you got anything to cut it with?’ queried Diana, wiping away the tears which Anne’s affecting accents had caused to flow afresh, and returning to practicalities.
“你有什么可以用的东西吗？”黛安娜问道，擦掉安妮动人的口音再次流下的眼泪，然后回到现实。

‘Yes. I’ve got my patchwork scissors in my apron pocket fortunately,’ said Anne. She solemnly clipped one of Diana’s curls. ‘Fare thee well, my beloved friend. Henceforth we must be as strangers though living side by side. But my heart will ever be faithful to thee.’
'是的。幸运的是，我的围裙口袋里有我的拼布剪刀，”安妮说。她郑重地剪掉了戴安娜的一头卷发。 ‘再见了，我亲爱的朋友。从此以后，虽然比邻而居，却仍如陌生人一般。但我的心永远忠于你。

Anne stood and watched Diana out of sight, mournfully waving her hand to the latter whenever she turned to look back. Then she returned to the house, not a little consoled for the time being by this romantic parting.
安妮站在那里，看着戴安娜消失在视线中，每当她回头看时，她都会悲伤地向后者挥手。然后她回到了家，暂时没有因为这次浪漫的离别而感到一点安慰。

‘It is all over,’ she informed Marilla. ‘I shall never have another friend. I’m really worse off than ever before, for I haven’t Katie Maurice and Violetta now. And even if I had it wouldn’t be the same. Somehow, little dream girls are not satisfying after a real friend. Diana and I had such an affecting farewell down by the spring. It will be sacred in my memory forever. I used the most pathetic language I could think of and said ‘thou’ and ‘thee.’ ‘Thou’ and ‘thee’ seem so much more romantic than ‘you.’ Diana gave me a lock of her hair and I’m going to sew it up in a little bag and wear it around my neck all my life. Please see that it is buried with me, for I don’t believe I’ll live very long. Perhaps when she sees me lying cold and dead before her Mrs. Barry may feel remorse for what she has done and will let Diana come to my funeral.’
“一切都结束了，”她告诉玛丽拉。 ‘我再也不会有另一个朋友了。我的处境真的比以前更糟，因为我现在没有凯蒂·莫里斯和维奥莱塔了。即使我有，也不会是一样的。不知何故，小梦想女孩在遇到真正的朋友后并不满足。春天到来之际，戴安娜和我进行了一场感人至深的告别。它将永远在我的记忆中成为神圣的。我用了我能想到的最可悲的语言说“你”和“你”。“你”和“你”看起来比“你”浪漫得多。戴安娜给了我一绺头发，我要走了把它缝在一个小袋子里，一辈子戴在脖子上。请把它和我一起埋葬，因为我不相信我会活多久。也许当她看到我冰冷地躺在她面前死去时，巴里夫人可能会对她所做的事感到悔恨，并会让戴安娜参加我的葬礼。

‘I don’t think there is much fear of your dying of grief as long as you can talk, Anne,’ said Marilla unsympathetically.
“安妮，我认为只要你能说话，就不用担心你会因悲伤而死。”玛丽拉冷漠地说。

The following Monday Anne surprised Marilla by coming down from her room with her basket of books on her arm and hip??? lips primmed up into a line of determination.
接下来的星期一，安妮从她的房间下来，手臂和臀部都挎着一篮子书，这让玛丽拉吃了一惊？嘴唇抿成了一条坚定的线。

‘I’m going back to school,’ she announced. ‘That is all there is left in life for me, now that my friend has been ruthlessly torn from me. In school I can look at her and muse over days departed.’
“我要回学校了，”她宣布。 “自从我的朋友被无情地从我身边夺走后，这就是我生命中剩下的一切了。在学校里，我可以看着她，沉思过去的日子。

‘You’d better muse over your lessons and sums,’ said Marilla, concealing her delight at this development of the situation. ‘If you’re going back to school I hope we’ll hear no more of breaking slates over people’s heads and such carryings on. Behave yourself and do just what your teacher tells you.’
“你最好沉思一下你的教训和总结，”玛丽拉说，隐藏着她对事态发展的喜悦。 “如果你要回到学校，我希望我们不会再听到有人在人们头上打碎石板和类似的事情。规规矩矩，按照老师告诉你的去做。

‘I’ll try to be a model pupil,’ agreed Anne dolefully. ‘There won’t be much fun in it, I expect. Mr. Phillips said Minnie Andrews was a model pupil and there isn’t a spark of imagination or life in her. She is just dull and poky and never seems to have a good time. But I feel so depressed that perhaps it will come easy to me now. I’m going round by the road. I couldn’t bear to go by the Birch Path all alone. I should weep bitter tears if I did.’
“我会努力成为一名模范学生。”安妮悲伤地同意道。 “我想这不会有太多乐趣。”菲利普斯先生说米妮·安德鲁斯是一名模范学生，她身上没有任何想象力或生命力的火花。她只是迟钝、狭隘，似乎从来没有玩得开心。但我感到如此沮丧，也许现在对我来说会变得容易了。我在路边绕一圈。我不忍心独自走在白桦林小路上。如果我这样做的话，我应该流下痛苦的眼泪。

Anne was welcomed back to school with open arms. Her imagination had been sorely missed in games, her voice in the singing and her dramatic ability in the perusal aloud of books at dinner hour. Ruby Gillis smuggled three blue plums over to her during testament reading; Ella May MacPherson gave her an enormous yellow pansy cut from the covers of a floral catalogue—a species of desk decoration much prized in Avonlea school. Sophia Sloane offered to teach her a perfectly elegant new pattern of knit lace, so nice for trimming aprons. Katie Boulter gave her a perfume bottle to keep slate water in, and Julia Bell copied carefully on a piece of pale pink paper scalloped on the edges the following effusion:
安妮张开双臂欢迎回到学校。她在游戏中的想象力、她在歌唱中的声音以及她在晚餐时间大声朗读书籍时的戏剧能力都被严重怀念了。鲁比·吉利斯（Ruby Gillis）在宣读遗嘱时偷偷地将三颗蓝李子送给了她；艾拉·梅·麦克弗森送给她一朵巨大的黄色三色堇，是从花卉目录的封面上剪下来的——这是埃文利学校非常珍贵的一种课桌装饰品。索菲亚·斯隆主动提出教她一种完美优雅的新针织蕾丝图案，非常适合修剪围裙。凯蒂·博尔特给了她一个香水瓶，用来装石板水，朱莉娅·贝尔在一张边缘有扇形的淡粉色纸上仔细地抄写了以下流出物：

When twilight drops her curtain down And pins it with a star Remember that you have a friend Though she may wander far.
当暮光落下她的窗帘并用一颗星星钉上它时请记住，你有一个朋友，尽管她可能会流浪很远。

‘It’s so nice to be appreciated,’ sighed Anne rapturously to Marilla that night.
“被人欣赏真是太好了，”那天晚上，安妮兴高采烈地对玛丽拉叹了口气。

The girls were not the only scholars who ‘appreciated’ her. When Anne went to her seat after dinner hour—she had been told by Mr. Phillips to sit with the model Minnie Andrews—she found on her desk a big luscious ‘strawberry apple.’ Anne caught it up all ready to take a bite when she remembered that the only place in Avonlea where strawberry apples grew was in the old Blythe orchard on the other side of the Lake of Shining Waters. Anne dropped the apple as if it were a red-hot coal and ostentatiously wiped her fingers on her handkerchief. The apple lay untouched on her desk until the next morning, when little Timothy Andrews, who swept the school and kindled the fire, annexed it as one of his perquisites. Charlie Sloane’s slate pencil, gorgeously bedizened with striped red and yellow paper, costing two cents where ordinary pencils cost only one, which he sent up to her after dinner hour, met with a more favorable reception. Anne was graciously pleased to accept it and rewarded the donor with a smile which exalted that infatuated youth straightway into the seventh heaven of delight and caused him to make such fearful errors in his dictation that Mr. Phillips kept him in after school to rewrite it.
这些女孩并不是唯一“欣赏”她的学者。当安妮在晚饭后回到座位时——菲利普斯先生让她和模特米妮·安德鲁斯坐在一起——她发现自己的桌子上有一个又大又香甜的“草莓苹果”。安妮把它全部抓起来准备咬一口。她记得埃文利唯一种植草莓苹果的地方是闪亮水域湖对岸的老布莱斯果园。安妮像扔一块烧红的煤炭一样扔下了苹果，并夸张地用手帕擦了擦手指。苹果原封不动地放在她的桌子上，直到第二天早上，小蒂莫西·安德鲁斯（Timothy Andrews）打扫了学校并点燃了火，将它作为他的额外津贴之一并入。查理·斯隆的石板铅笔，上面铺着华丽的红黄条纹纸，售价两美分，而普通铅笔只需一分钱，他在晚饭后送给她，受到了更好评。安妮很高兴地接受了它，并以微笑奖励了捐赠者，这使这个痴情的年轻人立即升入了快乐的第七天堂，并导致他在听写中犯了如此可怕的错误，以至于菲利普斯先生在放学后让他重写了它。

But as,
但作为，

The Caesar’s pageant shorn of Brutus’ bust Did but of Rome’s best son remind her more.
凯撒的盛会剪掉了布鲁图斯的半身像，但罗马最好的儿子却让她想起了更多。

so the marked absence of any tribute or recognition from Diana Barry who was sitting with Gertie Pye embittered Anne’s little triumph.
因此，与格蒂·派伊坐在一起的戴安娜·巴里显然没有任何致敬或认可，这让安妮的小胜利感到痛苦。

‘Diana might just have smiled at me once, I think,’ she mourned to Marilla that night. But the next morning a note most fearfully and wonderfully twisted and folded, and a small parcel were passed across to Anne.
“我想，戴安娜可能只是对我微笑过一次，”那天晚上她向玛丽拉哀悼。但第二天早上，一张纸条被极其可怕地、奇妙地扭曲和折叠，还有一个小包裹被传递给了安妮。

Dear Anne (ran the former)
亲爱的安妮（前者）

Mother says I’m not to play with you or talk to you even in school. It isn’t my fault and don’t be cross at me, because I love you as much as ever. I miss you awfully to tell all my secrets to and I don’t like Gertie Pye one bit. I made you one of the new bookmarkers out of red tissue paper. They are awfully fashionable now and only three girls in school know how to make them. When you look at it remember
妈妈说即使在学校我也不能和你一起玩或说话。这不是我的错，不要生我的气，因为我一如既往地爱你。我非常想念你告诉我所有的秘密，而且我一点也不喜欢格蒂·派伊。我用红色薄纸给你做了一个新书签。它们现在非常流行，学校里只有三个女孩知道如何制作它们。当你看到它的时候记得

Your true friend
你真正的朋友

Diana Barry.
戴安娜·巴里.

Anne read the note, kissed the bookmark, and dispatched a prompt reply back to the other side of the school.
安妮读了纸条，亲吻了书签，然后立即给学校的另一边发了一封回复。

My own darling Diana:—
我亲爱的戴安娜：——

Of course I am not cross at you because you have to obey your mother. Our spirits can commune. I shall keep your lovely present forever. Minnie Andrews is a very nice little girl—although she has no imagination—but after having been Diana’s busum friend I cannot be Minnie’s. Please excuse mistakes because my spelling isn’t very good yet, although much improoved.
当然，我不会生你的气，因为你必须服从你的母亲。我们的精神可以交流。我会永远保留你可爱的礼物。米妮·安德鲁斯是一个非常好的小女孩——尽管她没有想象力——但在成为戴安娜的布苏姆朋友之后，我就不能成为米妮的朋友了。请原谅我的错误，因为我的拼写还不是很好，尽管已经进步了很多。

Yours until death us do part
你的直到死亡我们分开

Anne or Cordelia Shirley.
安妮或科迪莉亚雪莉。

P.S. I shall sleep with your letter under my pillow tonight. A. OR C.S.
附：今晚我会把你的信放在枕头下睡觉。 A. 或 C.S.

Marilla pessimistically expected more trouble since Anne had again begun to go to school. But none developed. Perhaps Anne caught something of the ‘model’ spirit from Minnie Andrews; at least she got on very well with Mr. Phillips thenceforth. She flung herself into her studies heart and soul, determined not to be outdone in any class by Gilbert Blythe. The rivalry between them was soon apparent; it was entirely good natured on Gilbert’s side; but it is much to be feared that the same thing cannot be said of Anne, who had certainly an unpraiseworthy tenacity for holding grudges. She was as intense in her hatreds as in her loves. She would not stoop to admit that she meant to rival Gilbert in schoolwork, because that would have been to acknowledge his existence which Anne persistently ignored; but the rivalry was there and honors fluctuated between them. Now Gilbert was head of the spelling class; now Anne, with a toss of her long red braids, spelled him down. One morning Gilbert had all his sums done correctly and had his name written on the blackboard on the roll of honor; the next morning Anne, having wrestled wildly with decimals the entire evening before, would be first. One awful day they were ties and their names were written up together. It was almost as bad as a take-notice and Anne’s mortification was as evident as Gilbert’s satisfaction. When the written examinations at the end of each month were held the suspense was terrible. The first month Gilbert came out three marks ahead. The second Anne beat him by five. But her triumph was marred by the fact that Gilbert congratulated her heartily before the whole school. It would have been ever so much sweeter to her if he had felt the sting of his defeat.
自从安妮重新开始上学以来，玛丽拉悲观地预计会有更多麻烦。但没有一个发展起来。也许安妮从米妮·安德鲁斯身上学到了一些“模范”精神。至少从那以后她和菲利普斯先生相处得很好。她全心全意地投入学习，决心在任何一堂课上都不会被吉尔伯特·布莱斯超越。他们之间的竞争很快就显现出来了。吉尔伯特这边完全是出于善意。但令人担心的是，安妮却不能说同样的事情，她的记仇固执程度确实值得称赞。她的仇恨和她的爱一样强烈。她不会屈尊承认自己想在学业上与吉尔伯特竞争，因为那样就等于承认他的存在，而安妮却一直忽视这一点。但竞争是存在的，他们之间的荣誉也时有时无。现在吉尔伯特是拼写班的班主任。现在，安妮一甩她长长的红色辫子，把他打倒了。一天早上，吉尔伯特正确地算出了所有的数字，并把他的名字写在了黑板上的荣誉榜上。第二天早上，安妮将是第一个，她前一晚都在与小数进行了疯狂的斗争。可怕的一天，他们成了领带，他们的名字写在一起。这几乎和注意到一样糟糕，安妮的屈辱和吉尔伯特的满意一样明显。每个月底进行笔试时，悬念都是可怕的。第一个月，吉尔伯特领先三分。第二局安妮以五分优势击败了他。但吉尔伯特在全校面前衷心祝贺她，这损害了她的胜利。如果他能感受到失败的刺痛，那对她来说会更加甜蜜。

Mr. Phillips might not be a very good teacher; but a pupil so inflexibly determined on learning as Anne was could hardly escape making progress under any kind of teacher. By the end of the term Anne and Gilbert were both promoted into the fifth class and allowed to begin studying the elements of ‘the branches’—by which Latin, geometry, French, and algebra were meant. In geometry Anne met her Waterloo.
菲利普斯先生可能不是一个很好的老师；但是像安妮这样顽固地学习的学生在任何类型的老师的指导下都很难逃脱进步。学期结束时，安妮和吉尔伯特都升入五年级，并被允许开始学习“分支”的元素——“分支”指的是拉丁语、几何、法语和代数。在几何学中，安妮遇到了她的滑铁卢。

‘It’s perfectly awful stuff, Marilla,’ she groaned. ‘I’m sure I’ll never be able to make head or tail of it. There is no scope for imagination in it at all. Mr. Phillips says I’m the worst dunce he ever saw at it. And Gil—I mean some of the others are so smart at it. It is extremely mortifying, Marilla.
“这真是太糟糕了，玛丽拉，”她呻吟道。 “我确信我永远无法搞清楚这件事。这里面根本没有想象的空间。菲利普斯先生说我是他见过的最糟糕的傻瓜。还有吉尔——我的意思是其他一些人在这方面非常聪明。这真是令人羞愧，玛丽拉。

Even Diana gets along better than I do. But I don’t mind being beaten by Diana. Even although we meet as strangers now I still love her with an INEXTINGUISHABLE love. It makes me very sad at times to think about her. But really, Marilla, one can’t stay sad very long in such an interesting world, can one?’
就连戴安娜也相处得比我好。但我不介意被戴安娜打败。即使我们现在以陌生人的身份见面，我仍然以一种无法熄灭的爱来爱她。有时想起她我就感到非常难过。但说实话，玛丽拉，在这样一个有趣的世界里，一个人不可能长时间保持悲伤，不是吗？

Chapter XVIII
第十八章


Anne to the Rescue
安妮救援

ALL things great are wound up with all things little. At first glance it might not seem that the decision of a certain Canadian Premier to include Prince Edward Island in a political tour could have much or anything to do with the fortunes of little Anne Shirley at Green Gables. But it had.
所有伟大的事情都与所有小事情有关。乍一看，加拿大某位总理将爱德华王子岛纳入政治访问的决定似乎与绿山墙小安妮·雪莉的命运没有多大关系。但确实如此。

It was a January the Premier came, to address his loyal supporters and such of his nonsupporters as chose to be present at the monster mass meeting held in Charlottetown. Most of the Avonlea people were on Premier’s side of politics; hence on the night of the meeting nearly all the men and a goodly proportion of the women had gone to town thirty miles away. Mrs. Rachel Lynde had gone too. Mrs. Rachel Lynde was a red-hot politician and couldn’t have believed that the political rally could be carried through without her, although she was on the opposite side of politics. So she went to town and took her husband—Thomas would be useful in looking after the horse—and Marilla Cuthbert with her. Marilla had a sneaking interest in politics herself, and as she thought it might be her only chance to see a real live Premier, she promptly took it, leaving Anne and Matthew to keep house until her return the following day.
那是一月，总理来到这里，向他的忠实支持者和那些选择出席在夏洛特敦举行的大规模群众大会的非支持者发表讲话。大多数埃文利人在政治上都站在总理一边。因此，在会议当晚，几乎所有的男人和相当一部分女人都去了三十英里外的城镇。雷切尔·林德夫人也走了。雷切尔·林德夫人是一位炙手可热的政治家，尽管她站在政治的对立面，但她无法相信没有她，政治集会也能顺利进行。于是她带着她的丈夫（托马斯会帮忙照看马）和玛丽拉·卡斯伯特一起进城。玛丽拉自己对政治也有一种潜在的兴趣，因为她认为这可能是她见到真正的总理的唯一机会，所以她立即抓住了这个机会，留下安妮和马修留在家里，直到她第二天回来。

Hence, while Marilla and Mrs. Rachel were enjoying themselves hugely at the mass meeting, Anne and Matthew had the cheerful kitchen at Green Gables all to themselves. A bright fire was glowing in the old-fashioned Waterloo stove and blue-white frost crystals were shining on the windowpanes. Matthew nodded over a FARMERS’ ADVOCATE on the sofa and Anne at the table studied her lessons with grim determination, despite sundry wistful glances at the clock shelf, where lay a new book that Jane Andrews had lent her that day. Jane had assured her that it was warranted to produce any number of thrills, or words to that effect, and Anne’s fingers tingled to reach out for it. But that would mean Gilbert Blythe’s triumph on the morrow. Anne turned her back on the clock shelf and tried to imagine it wasn’t there.
因此，当玛丽拉和雷切尔夫人在群众大会上玩得很开心的时候，安妮和马修却独享了绿山墙令人愉快的厨房。老式滑铁卢炉子里熊熊燃烧着明亮的火，窗玻璃上闪烁着蓝白色的霜晶。马修对着沙发上的农民代言人点了点头，而坐在桌边的安妮则以坚定的决心学习着她的课程，尽管她不断地向钟架上投去渴望的目光，钟架上放着简·安德鲁斯那天借给她的一本新书。简向她保证，它一定会产生任何数量的刺激，或者类似的言语，安妮伸手去拿它的手指感到刺痛。但这意味着吉尔伯特·布莱斯明天就会取得胜利。安妮背对着钟架，试图想象它不在那里。

‘Matthew, did you ever study geometry when you went to school?’
“马修，你上学的时候学过几何吗？”

‘Well now, no, I didn’t,’ said Matthew, coming out of his doze with a start.
“好吧，不，我没有，”马修从睡梦中惊醒过来说道。

‘I wish you had,’ sighed Anne, ‘because then you’d be able to sympathize with me. You can’t sympathize properly if you’ve never studied it. It is casting a cloud over my whole life. I’m such a dunce at it, Matthew.’
“我希望你能这么做，”安妮叹了口气，“因为这样你就能同情我了。”如果你从未研究过它，你就无法正确地同情它。它给我的一生蒙上了一层阴云。我真是个笨蛋，马修。”

‘Well now, I dunno,’ said Matthew soothingly. ‘I guess you’re all right at anything. Mr. Phillips told me last week in Blair’s store at Carmody that you was the smartest scholar in school and was making rapid progress. ‘Rapid progress’ was his very words. There’s them as runs down Teddy Phillips and says he ain’t much of a teacher, but I guess he’s all right.’
“好吧，我不知道，”马修安慰地说。 “我猜你什么都擅长。菲利普斯先生上周在卡莫迪布莱尔的商店里告诉我，你是学校里最聪明的学者，而且进步很快。 “进步很快”是他的原话。他们指责泰迪·菲利普斯，说他算不上一个老师，但我想他还不错。

Matthew would have thought anyone who praised Anne was ‘all right.’
马修会认为任何赞扬安妮的人都是“没问题”。

‘I’m sure I’d get on better with geometry if only he wouldn’t change the letters,’ complained Anne. ‘I learn the proposition off by heart and then he draws it on the blackboard and puts different letters from what are in the book and I get all mixed up. I don’t think a teacher should take such a mean advantage, do you? We’re studying agriculture now and I’ve found out at last what makes the roads red. It’s a great comfort. I wonder how Marilla and Mrs. Lynde are enjoying themselves. Mrs. Lynde says Canada is going to the dogs the way things are being run at Ottawa and that it’s an awful warning to the electors. She says if women were allowed to vote we would soon see a blessed change. What way do you vote, Matthew?’
“我相信，只要他不改变字母，我的几何学就会学得更好。”安妮抱怨道。 “我背诵了这个命题，然后他把它画在黑板上，并写下了与书中不同的字母，我都搞混了。我认为老师不应该利用如此卑鄙的优势，你觉得吗？我们现在正在研究农业，我终于找到了道路变红的原因。这是一个很大的安慰。我不知道玛丽拉和林德夫人玩得怎么样。林德夫人表示，加拿大正在像渥太华的做法一样陷入困境，这对选民来说是一个可怕的警告。她说，如果允许女性投票，我们很快就会看到一个幸福的变化。马修，你怎么投票？

‘Conservative,’ said Matthew promptly. To vote Conservative was part of Matthew’s religion.
“保守，”马修立即说道。投票给保守党是马修宗教信仰的一部分。

‘Then I’m Conservative too,’ said Anne decidedly. ‘I’m glad because Gil—because some of the boys in school are Grits. I guess Mr. Phillips is a Grit too because Prissy Andrews’s father is one, and Ruby Gillis says that when a man is courting he always has to agree with the girl’s mother in religion and her father in politics. Is that true, Matthew?’
“那我也是保守派，”安妮斩钉截铁地说。 “我很高兴，因为吉尔——因为学校里的一些男孩都是粗人。我猜菲利普斯先生也是一个坚毅的人，因为普里西·安德鲁斯的父亲也是一个坚毅的人，鲁比·吉利斯说，当一个男人在求爱时，他总是必须在宗教上同意女孩的母亲，在政治上同意她的父亲。这是真的吗，马修？

‘Well now, I dunno,’ said Matthew.
“好吧，我不知道，”马修说。

‘Did you ever go courting, Matthew?’
“你谈过恋爱吗，马修？”

‘Well now, no, I dunno’s I ever did,’ said Matthew, who had certainly never thought of such a thing in his whole existence.
“好吧，不，我不知道我曾经做过什么，”马修说，他一生中肯定从未想过这样的事情。

Anne reflected with her chin in her hands.
安妮双手托着下巴思考着。

‘It must be rather interesting, don’t you think, Matthew? Ruby Gillis says when she grows up she’s going to have ever so many beaus on the string and have them all crazy about her; but I think that would be too exciting. I’d rather have just one in his right mind. But Ruby Gillis knows a great deal about such matters because she has so many big sisters, and Mrs. Lynde says the Gillis girls have gone off like hot cakes. Mr. Phillips goes up to see Prissy Andrews nearly every evening. He says it is to help her with her lessons but Miranda Sloane is studying for Queen’s too, and I should think she needed help a lot more than Prissy because she’s ever so much stupider, but he never goes to help her in the evenings at all. There are a great many things in this world that I can’t understand very well, Matthew.’
“这一定很有趣，你不觉得吗，马修？鲁比·吉利斯 (Ruby Gillis) 说，当她长大后，她将会有很多男朋友，他们都会为她而疯狂。但我认为那太令人兴奋了。我宁愿他脑子里只有一个。但鲁比·吉利斯对这些事情了解很多，因为她有很多姐姐，林德夫人说吉利斯的女儿们都过得很开心。菲利普斯先生几乎每天晚上都会去看望普莉西·安德鲁斯。他说这是为了帮助她学习功课，但米兰达·斯隆也在为女王大学学习，我认为她比普里西更需要帮助，因为她愚蠢得多，但他晚上根本不会去帮助她。这个世界上有很多事情我不太理解，马修。”

‘Well now, I dunno as I comprehend them all myself,’ acknowledged Matthew.
“好吧，我不知道，因为我自己理解它们，”马修承认。

‘Well, I suppose I must finish up my lessons. I won’t allow myself to open that new book Jane lent me until I’m through. But it’s a terrible temptation, Matthew. Even when I turn my back on it I can see it there just as plain. Jane said she cried herself sick over it. I love a book that makes me cry. But I think I’ll carry that book into the sitting room and lock it in the jam closet and give you the key. And you must NOT give it to me, Matthew, until my lessons are done, not even if I implore you on my bended knees. It’s all very well to say resist temptation, but it’s ever so much easier to resist it if you can’t get the key. And then shall I run down the cellar and get some russets, Matthew? Wouldn’t you like some russets?’
“好吧，我想我必须完成我的课程了。在读完之前，我不会允许自己打开简借给我的那本新书。但这是一个可怕的诱惑，马修。即使我背对着它，我也能清楚地看到它。简说她为此哭得很伤心。我喜欢一本让我流泪的书。但我想我会把那本书带到客厅，锁在果酱柜里，然后给你钥匙。马修，在我的课程完成之前，你绝对不能把它交给我，即使我跪着恳求你。抵制诱惑固然很好，但如果你拿不到钥匙，抵制诱惑就会容易得多。然后我要跑到地窖去拿一些黄褐色吗，马修？你不想要一些赤褐色吗？

‘Well now, I dunno but what I would,’ said Matthew, who never ate russets but knew Anne’s weakness for them.
“好吧，我不知道我会做什么，”马修说，他从来没有吃过赤褐色食物，但知道安妮对它们的弱点。

Just as Anne emerged triumphantly from the cellar with her plateful of russets came the sound of flying footsteps on the icy board walk outside and the next moment the kitchen door was flung open and in rushed Diana Barry, white faced and breathless, with a shawl wrapped hastily around her head. Anne promptly let go of her candle and plate in her surprise, and plate, candle, and apples crashed together down the cellar ladder and were found at the bottom embedded in melted grease, the next day, by Marilla, who gathered them up and thanked mercy the house hadn’t been set on fire.
就在安妮带着一盘赤褐色得意洋洋地从地窖里出来时，外面冰冷的木板路上传来了飞扬的脚步声，下一刻厨房的门被猛地推开，戴安娜·巴里急忙跑了进来，她脸色苍白，气喘吁吁，裹着一条围巾。急忙绕过她的头。安妮惊讶地立即放开了蜡烛和盘子，盘子、蜡烛和苹果一起从地窖的梯子上摔下来，第二天，玛丽拉在底部发现了嵌在融化的油脂中的东西，她把它们捡起来并感谢幸亏房子没有着火。

‘Whatever is the matter, Diana?’ cried Anne. ‘Has your mother relented at last?’
“到底怎么了，戴安娜？”安妮喊道。 “你妈妈终于心软了吗？”

‘Oh, Anne, do come quick,’ implored Diana nervously. ‘Minnie May is awful sick—she’s got croup. Young Mary Joe says—and Father and Mother are away to town and there’s nobody to go for the doctor. Minnie May is awful bad and Young Mary Joe doesn’t know what to do—and oh, Anne, I’m so scared!’
“哦，安妮，快点来吧，”戴安娜紧张地恳求道。 “米妮·梅病得很厉害——她得了哮吼。年轻的玛丽·乔说——爸爸和妈妈都进城了，没有人可以去看医生。米妮·梅非常糟糕，年轻的玛丽·乔不知道该怎么办——哦，安妮，我太害怕了！

Matthew, without a word, reached out for cap and coat, slipped past Diana and away into the darkness of the yard.
马修一言不发，伸手拿帽子和外套，从戴安娜身边溜过去，消失在院子的黑暗中。

‘He’s gone to harness the sorrel mare to go to Carmody for the doctor,’ said Anne, who was hurrying on hood and jacket. ‘I know it as well as if he’d said so. Matthew and I are such kindred spirits I can read his thoughts without words at all.’
“他去套上栗色母马，准备去卡莫迪看医生。”安妮说，她正忙着戴上兜帽和夹克。 “我也知道，就好像他是这么说的一样。”马修和我志趣相投，我不用言语就能读懂他的想法。”

‘I don’t believe he’ll find the doctor at Carmody,’ sobbed Diana. ‘I know that Dr. Blair went to town and I guess Dr. Spencer would go too. Young Mary Joe never saw anybody with croup and Mrs. Lynde is away. Oh, Anne!’
“我不相信他会在卡莫迪找到医生，”戴安娜抽泣着。 “我知道布莱尔博士去了城里，我猜斯宾塞博士也会去。年轻的玛丽·乔从未见过任何患有哮吼的人，林德夫人也不在家。哦，安妮！

‘Don’t cry, Di,’ said Anne cheerily. ‘I know exactly what to do for croup. You forget that Mrs. Hammond had twins three times. When you look after three pairs of twins you naturally get a lot of experience. They all had croup regularly. Just wait till I get the ipecac bottle—you mayn’t have any at your house. Come on now.’
“别哭，迪，”安妮高兴地说。 “我清楚地知道如何治疗哮吼。你忘了哈蒙德夫人生过三对双胞胎。当您照顾三对双胞胎时，您自然会获得很多经验。他们都经常患有哮吼。等我拿到吐根瓶吧——你家里可能没有。现在来吧。

The two little girls hastened out hand in hand and hurried through Lover’s Lane and across the crusted field beyond, for the snow was too deep to go by the shorter wood way. Anne, although sincerely sorry for Minnie May, was far from being insensible to the romance of the situation and to the sweetness of once more sharing that romance with a kindred spirit.
两个小女孩手拉着手，急忙穿过情人巷，穿过远处结了硬皮的田野，因为积雪太深，走不上那条较短的木路。安妮虽然真诚地为米妮·梅感到难过，但她对这种浪漫的情势以及与志趣相投的人再次分享这种浪漫的甜蜜绝非无动于衷。

The night was clear and frosty, all ebony of shadow and silver of snowy slope; big stars were shining over the silent fields; here and there the dark pointed firs stood up with snow powdering their branches and the wind whistling through them. Anne thought it was truly delightful to go skimming through all this mystery and loveliness with your bosom friend who had been so long estranged.
夜色晴朗，寒冷，黑影如乌木，雪坡银白。大颗星星闪耀在寂静的田野上；到处都是黑色的尖头冷杉矗立起来，雪覆盖了它们的树枝，风呼啸着穿过它们。安妮觉得，能和阔别已久的挚友一起浏览这一切神秘而可爱的事，真是令人愉快。

Minnie May, aged three, was really very sick. She lay on the kitchen sofa feverish and restless, while her hoarse breathing could be heard all over the house. Young Mary Joe, a buxom, broad-faced French girl from the creek, whom Mrs. Barry had engaged to stay with the children during her absence, was helpless and bewildered, quite incapable of thinking what to do, or doing it if she thought of it.
三岁的米妮·梅病得很重。她躺在厨房的沙发上，浑身发烧，焦躁不安，整个屋子里都听得到她嘶哑的呼吸声。年轻的玛丽·乔，一个来自小溪的丰满、宽脸的法国女孩，巴里太太在她不在的时候请她来照顾孩子们。它的。

Anne went to work with skill and promptness.
安妮熟练而迅速地开始工作。

‘Minnie May has croup all right; she’s pretty bad, but I’ve seen them worse. First we must have lots of hot water. I declare, Diana, there isn’t more than a cupful in the kettle! There, I’ve filled it up, and, Mary Joe, you may put some wood in the stove. I don’t want to hurt your feelings but it seems to me you might have thought of this before if you’d any imagination. Now, I’ll undress Minnie May and put her to bed and you try to find some soft flannel cloths, Diana. I’m going to give her a dose of ipecac first of all.’
“米妮·梅确实有哮吼；她很糟糕，但我见过更糟糕的。首先我们必须有大量的热水。我宣布，戴安娜，水壶里只剩下一杯了！在那里，我已经把它填满了，玛丽·乔，你可以在炉子里放一些木头。我不想伤害你的感情，但在我看来，如果你有想象力的话，你可能以前就想到过这一点。现在，我要脱掉米妮·梅的衣服，让她上床睡觉，戴安娜，你试着找一些柔软的法兰绒布。我要先给她一剂吐根。

Minnie May did not take kindly to the ipecac but Anne had not brought up three pairs of twins for nothing. Down that ipecac went, not only once, but many times during the long, anxious night when the two little girls worked patiently over the suffering Minnie May, and Young Mary Joe, honestly anxious to do all she could, kept up a roaring fire and heated more water than would have been needed for a hospital of croupy babies.
米妮·梅对吐根并没有好感，但安妮也没有白养育三对双胞胎。在那个漫长而焦虑的夜晚，两个小女孩耐心地照顾受苦受难的明妮·梅，而年轻的玛丽·乔真诚地渴望尽她所能，一直生着熊熊的火，然后，吐根不仅掉了一次，而且掉了很多次。加热的水量比一家治疗哮吼婴儿的医院所需的水量还要多。

It was three o’clock when Matthew came with a doctor, for he had been obliged to go all the way to Spencervale for one. But the pressing need for assistance was past. Minnie May was much better and was sleeping soundly.
当马修带着一位医生来时，已经是下午三点了，因为他不得不大老远去斯宾瑟维尔看医生。但对援助的迫切需求已经成为过去。米妮·梅好多了，睡得很香。

‘I was awfully near giving up in despair,’ explained Anne. ‘She got worse and worse until she was sicker than ever the Hammond twins were, even the last pair. I actually thought she was going to choke to death. I gave her every drop of ipecac in that bottle and when the last dose went down I said to myself—not to Diana or Young Mary Joe, because I didn’t want to worry them any more than they were worried, but I had to say it to myself just to relieve my feelings—‘This is the last lingering hope and I fear, tis a vain one.’ But in about three minutes she coughed up the phlegm and began to get better right away. You must just imagine my relief, doctor, because I can’t express it in words. You know there are some things that cannot be expressed in words.’
“我绝望得几乎要放弃了，”安妮解释道。 “她的情况越来越糟，直到她的病情比哈蒙德双胞胎甚至最后一对还要严重。”我真的以为她会窒息而死。我给了她那瓶里的每一滴吐根，当最后一剂喝完时，我对自己说——不要对戴安娜或年轻的玛丽·乔说，因为我不想让他们比他们更担心，但我不得不这么做我对自己这么说，只是为了缓解我的感情——“这是最后的希望，我担心，这是一个徒劳的希望。”但大约三分钟后，她咳出了痰，并且立即开始好转。您一定想象一下我的解脱，医生，因为我无法用语言表达它。你知道有些事情是无法用言语表达的。”

‘Yes, I know,’ nodded the doctor. He looked at Anne as if he were thinking some things about her that couldn’t be expressed in words. Later on, however, he expressed them to Mr. and Mrs. Barry.
“是的，我知道。”医生点点头。他看着安妮，似乎在思考一些无法用言语表达的事情。然而，后来他向巴里夫妇表达了这些想法。

‘That little redheaded girl they have over at Cuthbert’s is as smart as they make ‘em. I tell you she saved that baby’s life, for it would have been too late by the time I got there. She seems to have a skill and presence of mind perfectly wonderful in a child of her age. I never saw anything like the eyes of her when she was explaining the case to me.’
“卡斯伯特家的那个红发小女孩和他们创造的一样聪明。我告诉你她救了那个婴儿的命，因为当我到达那里时已经太晚了。对于她这个年纪的孩子来说，她的技巧和冷静似乎都非常出色。当她向我解释案件时，我从未见过像她那样的眼睛。”

Anne had gone home in the wonderful, white-frosted winter morning, heavy eyed from loss of sleep, but still talking unweariedly to Matthew as they crossed the long white field and walked under the glittering fairy arch of the Lover’s Lane maples.
安妮在一个美好的、白霜的冬日早晨回家了，她因失眠而双目沉重，但当他们穿过长长的白色田野，走在情人巷枫树闪闪发光的仙女拱门下时，安妮仍然不知疲倦地和马修说话。

‘Oh, Matthew, isn’t it a wonderful morning? The world looks like something God had just imagined for His own pleasure, doesn’t it? Those trees look as if I could blow them away with a breath—pouf! I’m so glad I live in a world where there are white frosts, aren’t you? And I’m so glad Mrs. Hammond had three pairs of twins after all. If she hadn’t I mightn’t have known what to do for Minnie May. I’m real sorry I was ever cross with Mrs. Hammond for having twins. But, oh, Matthew, I’m so sleepy. I can’t go to school. I just know I couldn’t keep my eyes open and I’d be so stupid. But l hate to stay home, for Gil—some of the others will get head of the class, and it’s so hard to get up again—although of course the harder it is the more satisfaction you have when you do get up, haven’t you?’
“哦，马修，这不是一个美好的早晨吗？这个世界看起来就像是上帝为了自己的喜悦而想象出来的，不是吗？那些树看起来好像我一口气就能把它们吹走——噗！我很庆幸我生活在一个有白霜的世界，不是吗？我很高兴哈蒙德夫人毕竟有了三对双胞胎。如果她不这样做，我可能不知道该为米妮·梅做些什么。我真的很抱歉，我曾经因为哈蒙德夫人生了双胞胎而对她生气。但是，哦，马修，我太困了。我不能去学校。我只知道我无法睁开眼睛，我会变得很愚蠢。但我讨厌呆在家里，对吉尔来说——其他一些人会成为班上的佼佼者，而再次站起来是如此困难——当然，当你站起来时，你越困难，你就越满足，没有。你是吗？

‘Well now, I guess you’ll manage all right,’ said Matthew, looking at Anne’s white little face and the dark shadows under her eyes. ‘You just go right to bed and have a good sleep. I’ll do all the chores.’
“好吧，我想你会处理得很好，”马修看着安妮苍白的小脸和她眼睛下面的黑眼圈说道。 “你只要上床睡觉就可以了。”我会做所有的家务。

Anne accordingly went to bed and slept so long and soundly that it was well on in the white and rosy winter afternoon when she awoke and descended to the kitchen where Marilla, who had arrived home in the meantime, was sitting knitting.
于是，安妮上床睡觉，睡得又长又香，当她醒来时，已经是一个白里透红的冬日午后了，下楼来到厨房，玛丽拉此时也到了家，正坐在厨房里织毛衣。

‘Oh, did you see the Premier?’ exclaimed Anne at once. ‘What did he look like Marilla?’
“哦，你看到总理了吗？”安妮立刻惊呼道。 “他看起来像玛丽拉吗？”

‘Well, he never got to be Premier on account of his looks,’ said Marilla. ‘Such a nose as that man had! But he can speak. I was proud of being a Conservative. Rachel Lynde, of course, being a Liberal, had no use for him. Your dinner is in the oven, Anne, and you can get yourself some blue plum preserve out of the pantry. I guess you’re hungry. Matthew has been telling me about last night. I must say it was fortunate you knew what to do. I wouldn’t have had any idea myself, for I never saw a case of croup. There now, never mind talking till you’ve had your dinner. I can tell by the look of you that you’re just full up with speeches, but they’ll keep.’
“好吧，他从来没有因为他的外表而成为总理，”马里拉说。 “那个人的鼻子真像！”但他会说话。我为自己是一名保守党人而感到自豪。当然，雷切尔·林德（Rachel Lynde）作为一名自由党人，对他毫无用处。安妮，你的晚餐已经在烤箱里了，你可以从食品储藏室里拿一些蓝李子蜜饯。我猜你饿了。马修一直在告诉我昨晚的事。我必须说很幸运你知道该怎么做。我自己也不知道，因为我从未见过哮吼病例。现在，吃完晚饭之前别介意说话。从你的表情我可以看出你只是在演讲，但他们会继续讲下去。

Marilla had something to tell Anne, but she did not tell it just then for she knew if she did Anne’s consequent excitement would lift her clear out of the region of such material matters as appetite or dinner. Not until Anne had finished her saucer of blue plums did Marilla say:
玛丽拉有话要告诉安妮，但她当时没有说出来，因为她知道如果她这样做，安妮随之而来的兴奋会让她摆脱食欲或晚餐等物质问题的困扰。直到安妮吃完她那碟蓝色李子，玛丽拉才说道：

‘Mrs. Barry was here this afternoon, Anne. She wanted to see you, but I wouldn’t wake you up. She says you saved Minnie May’s life, and she is very sorry she acted as she did in that affair of the currant wine. She says she knows now you didn’t mean to set Diana drunk, and she hopes you’ll forgive her and be good friends with Diana again. You’re to go over this evening if you like for Diana can’t stir outside the door on account of a bad cold she caught last night. Now, Anne Shirley, for pity’s sake don’t fly up into the air.’
'太太。巴里今天下午在这里，安妮。她想见你，但我不会叫醒你。她说你救了米妮·梅的命，她对自己在醋栗酒事件中的所作所为感到非常抱歉。她说她现在知道你不是故意让戴安娜喝醉的，她希望你能原谅她并再次与戴安娜成为好朋友。如果你愿意的话，你今晚就可以过去，因为戴安娜昨晚得了重感冒，在门外动弹不得。现在，安妮·雪莉，看在怜悯的份上，不要飞到空中。”

The warning seemed not unnecessary, so uplifted and aerial was Anne’s expression and attitude as she sprang to her feet, her face irradiated with the flame of her spirit.
这个警告似乎并非没有必要，当安妮跳起身来时，她的表情和态度是如此的昂扬和昂扬，她的脸闪耀着她的精神之火。

‘Oh, Marilla, can I go right now—without washing my dishes? I’ll wash them when I come back, but I cannot tie myself down to anything so unromantic as dishwashing at this thrilling moment.’
“哦，玛丽拉，我现在可以走了吗——不洗碗吗？”回来后我会洗它们，但在这个激动人心的时刻，我不能把自己束缚在洗碗这样不浪漫的事情上。”

‘Yes, yes, run along,’ said Marilla indulgently. ‘Anne Shirley—are you crazy? Come back this instant and put something on you. I might as well call to the wind. She’s gone without a cap or wrap. Look at her tearing through the orchard with her hair streaming. It’ll be a mercy if she doesn’t catch her death of cold.’
“是的，是的，走吧，”玛丽拉宽容地说。 “安妮·雪莉——你疯了吗？立刻回来给你穿上一些东西。我不妨向风呼唤。她没有戴帽子或围巾就走了。看看她头发飘扬，穿过果园。如果她没有冻死那就太好了。

Anne came dancing home in the purple winter twilight across the snowy places. Afar in the southwest was the great shimmering, pearl-like sparkle of an evening star in a sky that was pale golden and ethereal rose over gleaming white spaces and dark glens of spruce. The tinkles of sleigh bells among the snowy hills came like elfin chimes through the frosty air, but their music was not sweeter than the song in Anne’s heart and on her lips.
安妮在紫色的冬日暮色中穿过雪地跳舞回家。西南方向远处，一颗夜星闪烁着珍珠般的光芒，天空呈淡金色，空灵的玫瑰色笼罩着闪闪发光的白色空间和暗淡的云杉峡谷。雪山间雪橇铃的叮当作响，就像精灵的钟声穿过寒冷的空气，但它们的音乐并不比安妮心里和嘴唇上的歌更甜美。

‘You see before you a perfectly happy person, Marilla,’ she announced. ‘I’m perfectly happy—yes, in spite of my red hair. Just at present I have a soul above red hair. Mrs. Barry kissed me and cried and said she was so sorry and she could never repay me. I felt fearfully embarrassed, Marilla, but I just said as politely as I could, ‘I have no hard feelings for you, Mrs. Barry. I assure you once for all that I did not mean to intoxicate Diana and henceforth I shall cover the past with the mantle of oblivion.’ That was a pretty dignified way of speaking wasn’t it, Marilla?
“你看到的是一个非常幸福的人，玛丽拉，”她宣布道。 “我非常高兴——是的，尽管我的头发是红的。就目前我在红发之上还有一个灵魂。巴里夫人吻了我，哭着说她很抱歉，她永远无法报答我。我感到非常尴尬，玛丽拉，但我只是尽可能礼貌地说，“我对你没有什么不好的感觉，巴里夫人。我向你保证，我无意让戴安娜陶醉，从今以后，我将用遗忘的斗篷来掩盖过去。”这是一种相当有尊严的说话方式，不是吗，玛丽拉？

I felt that I was heaping coals of fire on Mrs. Barry’s head. And Diana and I had a lovely afternoon. Diana showed me a new fancy crochet stitch her aunt over at Carmody taught her. Not a soul in Avonlea knows it but us, and we pledged a solemn vow never to reveal it to anyone else. Diana gave me a beautiful card with a wreath of roses on it and a verse of poetry:
我觉得我正在把炭火堆到巴里夫人的头上。戴安娜和我度过了一个愉快的下午。戴安娜向我展示了她阿姨在卡莫迪教她的一种新的花式钩针编织方法。除了我们之外，埃文利没有一个人知道这一点，我们庄严发誓永远不会向任何人透露这一点。戴安娜给了我一张漂亮的卡片，上面有玫瑰花环和一首诗：

‘If you love me as I love you
‘如果你爱我就像我爱你一样

Nothing but death can part us two.
除了死亡，没有什么能把我们两个分开。

And that is true, Marilla. We’re going to ask Mr. Phillips to let us sit together in school again, and Gertie Pye can go with Minnie Andrews. We had an elegant tea. Mrs. Barry had the very best china set out, Marilla, just as if I was real company. I can’t tell you what a thrill it gave me. Nobody ever used their very best china on my account before. And we had fruit cake and pound cake and doughnuts and two kinds of preserves, Marilla. And Mrs. Barry asked me if I took tea and said ‘Pa, why don’t you pass the biscuits to Anne?’ It must be lovely to be grown up, Marilla, when just being treated as if you were is so nice.’
确实如此，玛丽拉。我们要请求菲利普斯先生让我们再次在学校坐在一起，格蒂·派伊可以和米妮·安德鲁斯一起去。我们喝了一杯优雅的茶。巴里夫人准备了最好的瓷器，玛丽拉，就好像我是真正的陪伴一样。我无法告诉你这给了我多大的刺激。以前从来没有人在我的帐户上使用过他们最好的瓷器。我们吃了水果蛋糕、磅蛋糕、甜甜圈和两种蜜饯，玛丽拉。巴里太太问我是否喝茶，并说：“爸，你为什么不把饼干递给安妮呢？”长大一定很可爱，玛丽拉，只要被人像对待一样就好了。 '

‘I don’t know about that,’ said Marilla, with a brief sigh.
“我不知道，”玛丽拉简短地叹了口气说道。

‘Well, anyway, when I am grown up,’ said Anne decidedly, ‘I’m always going to talk to little girls as if they were too, and I’ll never laugh when they use big words. I know from sorrowful experience how that hurts one’s feelings. After tea Diana and I made taffy. The taffy wasn’t very good, I suppose because neither Diana nor I had ever made any before. Diana left me to stir it while she buttered the plates and I forgot and let it burn; and then when we set it out on the platform to cool the cat walked over one plate and that had to be thrown away. But the making of it was splendid fun. Then when I came home Mrs. Barry asked me to come over as often as I could and Diana stood at the window and threw kisses to me all the way down to Lover’s Lane. I assure you, Marilla, that I feel like praying tonight and I’m going to think out a special brand-new prayer in honor of the occasion.’
“好吧，不管怎样，等我长大了，”安妮斩钉截铁地说，“我总是会和小女孩说话，就好像她们也是一样，当她们说大话时我永远不会笑。我从悲伤的经历中知道这会多么伤害一个人的感情。喝完茶后，戴安娜和我做了太妃糖。我想太妃糖不太好，因为戴安娜和我以前都没有做过。戴安娜让我搅拌，而她在盘子上涂黄油，我忘记了，让它烧着；然后当我们把它放在平台上冷却时，猫走过了一个盘子，不得不扔掉它。但它的制作过程非常有趣。然后，当我回到家时，巴里夫人让我尽可能多地过来，戴安娜站在窗前，一路亲吻我，一直到情人巷。我向你保证，玛丽拉，今晚我想祈祷，我会想出一个特别的全新祈祷来纪念这一时刻。

Chapter XIX
第十九章


A Concert a Catastrophe and a Confession
一场音乐会、一场灾难和一次忏悔

‘MARILLA, can I go over to see Diana just for a minute?’ asked Anne, running breathlessly down from the east gable one February evening.
“玛丽拉，我可以去看看戴安娜吗？”二月的一个晚上，安妮气喘吁吁地从东山墙跑下来，问道。

‘I don’t see what you want to be traipsing about after dark for,’ said Marilla shortly. ‘You and Diana walked home from school together and then stood down there in the snow for half an hour more, your tongues going the whole blessed time, clickety-clack. So I don’t think you’re very badly off to see her again.’
“我不明白你想在天黑后闲逛做什么，”玛丽拉简短地说。 “你和戴安娜一起从学校走回家，然后在雪地里又站了半个小时，在整个幸福的时光里，你们的舌头发出咔哒声。所以我认为你再次见到她不会太糟糕。”

‘But she wants to see me,’ pleaded Anne. ‘She has something very important to tell me.’
“但她想见我，”安妮恳求道。 “她有非常重要的事情要告诉我。”

‘How do you know she has?’
“你怎么知道她有？”

‘Because she just signaled to me from her window. We have arranged a way to signal with our candles and cardboard. We set the candle on the window sill and make flashes by passing the cardboard back and forth. So many flashes mean a certain thing. It was my idea, Marilla.’
“因为她刚刚从窗户向我发出信号。我们安排了一种用蜡烛和纸板发出信号的方法。我们将蜡烛放在窗台上，并通过来回传递纸板来发出闪光。如此多的闪光意味着某种特定的事情。这是我的主意，玛丽拉。”

‘I’ll warrant you it was,’ said Marilla emphatically. ‘And the next thing you’ll be setting fire to the curtains with your signaling nonsense.’
“我向你保证，确实如此。”玛丽拉强调道。 “接下来你就会用你的胡言乱语点燃窗帘。”

‘Oh, we’re very careful, Marilla. And it’s so interesting. Two flashes mean, ‘Are you there?’ Three mean ‘yes’ and four ‘no.’ Five mean, ‘Come over as soon as possible, because I have something important to reveal.’ Diana has just signaled five flashes, and I’m really suffering to know what it is.’
“哦，我们非常小心，玛丽拉。这很有趣。两次闪烁表示“你在吗？”三次表示“是”，四次表示“否”。五次表示“尽快过来，因为我有重要的事情要透露。”戴安娜刚刚发出五次闪烁信号，我“我真的很难知道那是什么。”

‘Well, you needn’t suffer any longer,’ said Marilla sarcastically. ‘You can go, but you’re to be back here in just ten minutes, remember that.’
“好吧，你不必再受苦了，”玛丽拉讽刺地说。 “你可以走，但你要在十分钟内回到这里，记住这一点。”

Anne did remember it and was back in the stipulated time, although probably no mortal will ever know just what it cost her to confine the discussion of Diana’s important communication within the limits of ten minutes. But at least she had made good use of them.
安妮确实记得这件事，并在规定的时间内回来了，尽管可能没有人会知道她将戴安娜重要通讯的讨论限制在十分钟之内要付出什么代价。但至少她充分利用了它们。

‘Oh, Marilla, what do you think? You know tomorrow is Diana’s birthday. Well, her mother told her she could ask me to go home with her from school and stay all night with her. And her cousins are coming over from Newbridge in a big pung sleigh to go to the Debating Club concert at the hall tomorrow night. And they are going to take Diana and me to the concert—if you’ll let me go, that is. You will, won’t you, Marilla? Oh, I feel so excited.’
‘哦，玛丽拉，你觉得怎么样？你知道明天是戴安娜的生日。好吧，她妈妈告诉她，她可以让我陪她放学回家，并在她身边过夜。她的表兄弟姐妹们将从纽布里奇乘坐大型彭雪橇赶来参加明天晚上在大厅举行的辩论俱乐部音乐会。他们将带戴安娜和我去听音乐会——如果你让我走的话。你会的，不是吗，玛丽拉？哦，我感到很兴奋。

‘You can calm down then, because you’re not going. You’re better at home in your own bed, and as for that club concert, it’s all nonsense, and little girls should not be allowed to go out to such places at all.’
‘那你就可以冷静了，因为你不会去的。你还是在家里自己的床上比较好，至于那场俱乐部音乐会，那都是无稽之谈，根本不应该允许小女孩去这种地方。

‘I’m sure the Debating Club is a most respectable affair,’ pleaded Anne.
“我确信辩论俱乐部是一项最受人尊敬的活动，”安妮恳求道。

‘I’m not saying it isn’t. But you’re not going to begin gadding about to concerts and staying out all hours of the night. Pretty doings for children. I’m surprised at Mrs. Barry’s letting Diana go.’
‘我并不是说不是。但你不会开始去听音乐会并整夜待在外面。为孩子们做的漂亮事。我对巴里夫人放走戴安娜感到惊讶。

‘But it’s such a very special occasion,’ mourned Anne, on the verge of tears. ‘Diana has only one birthday in a year. It isn’t as if birthdays were common things, Marilla. Prissy Andrews is going to recite ‘Curfew Must Not Ring Tonight.’ That is such a good moral piece, Marilla, I’m sure it would do me lots of good to hear it. And the choir are going to sing four lovely pathetic songs that are pretty near as good as hymns. And oh, Marilla, the minister is going to take part; yes, indeed, he is; he’s going to give an address. That will be just about the same thing as a sermon. Please, mayn’t I go, Marilla?’
“但这是一个非常特殊的时刻，”安妮哀悼道，她快要哭了。 “戴安娜一年只有一次生日。玛丽拉，生日似乎并不常见。普里西·安德鲁斯将背诵“今晚宵禁不得响起”。这是一篇很好的道德文章，玛丽拉，我相信听到它会对我有很多好处。合唱团将演唱四首可爱而可怜的歌曲，它们几乎和赞美诗一样好。哦，玛丽拉，部长要参加；是的，确实如此；他会给出一个地址。这与布道几乎是一样的。拜托，我可以走了吗，玛丽拉？

‘You heard what I said, Anne, didn’t you? Take off your boots now and go to bed. It’s past eight.’
“你听到我说的话了，安妮，不是吗？现在脱掉靴子去睡觉吧。已经八点多了。”

‘There’s just one more thing, Marilla,’ said Anne, with the air of producing the last shot in her locker. ‘Mrs. Barry told Diana that we might sleep in the spare-room bed. Think of the honor of your little Anne being put in the spare-room bed.’
“还有一件事，玛丽拉，”安妮说道，神情像是在储物柜里打出最后一枪。 '太太。巴里告诉戴安娜我们可以睡在备用房间的床上。想想你的小安妮被放在备用房间的床上是多么荣幸。”

‘It’s an honor you’ll have to get along without. Go to bed, Anne, and don’t let me hear another word out of you.’
‘这是你的荣幸，没有它你就必须相处。去睡觉吧，安妮，别让我听到你再说一个字。”

When Anne, with tears rolling over her cheeks, had gone sorrowfully upstairs, Matthew, who had been apparently sound asleep on the lounge during the whole dialogue, opened his eyes and said decidedly:
当安妮泪流满面，悲伤地上楼时，整个对话期间一直在休息室睡得很熟的马修睁开了眼睛，斩钉截铁地说：

‘Well now, Marilla, I think you ought to let Anne go.’
“现在，玛丽拉，我认为你应该让安妮走。”

‘I don’t then,’ retorted Marilla. ‘Who’s bringing this child up, Matthew, you or me?’
“那么我不知道，”玛丽拉反驳道。 “谁抚养这个孩子，马修，你还是我？”

‘Well now, you,’ admitted Matthew.
“好吧，你，”马修承认道。

‘Don’t interfere then.’
“那就别干涉。”

‘Well now, I ain’t interfering. It ain’t interfering to have your own opinion. And my opinion is that you ought to let Anne go.’
‘好吧，我不干涉。有自己的意见并不妨碍。我的意见是你应该让安妮走。

‘You’d think I ought to let Anne go to the moon if she took the notion, I’ve no doubt’ was Marilla’s amiable rejoinder. ‘I might have let her spend the night with Diana, if that was all. But I don’t approve of this concert plan. She’d go there and catch cold like as not, and have her head filled up with nonsense and excitement. It would unsettle her for a week. I understand that child’s disposition and what’s good for it better than you, Matthew.’
“如果安妮接受这个想法，你会认为我应该让她去月球，我毫不怀疑”，马里拉和蔼可亲地反驳道。 “如果仅此而已，我可能会让她和戴安娜一起过夜。但我不赞成这个演唱会计划。她去那里就像没有感冒一样，脑子里充满了胡言乱语和兴奋。这会让她不安一周。我比你更了解那个孩子的性格以及对他有什么好处，马修。”

‘I think you ought to let Anne go,’ repeated Matthew firmly. Argument was not his strong point, but holding fast to his opinion certainly was. Marilla gave a gasp of helplessness and took refuge in silence. The next morning, when Anne was washing the breakfast dishes in the pantry, Matthew paused on his way out to the barn to say to Marilla again:
“我认为你应该让安妮走。”马修坚定地重复道。争论不是他的强项，但坚持自己的观点无疑是他的强项。玛丽拉无奈地叹了口气，默默地躲了起来。第二天早上，当安妮在食品储藏室洗早餐盘子时，马修在去谷仓的路上停下来再次对玛丽拉说：

‘I think you ought to let Anne go, Marilla.’
“我认为你应该让安妮走，玛丽拉。”

For a moment Marilla looked things not lawful to be uttered. Then she yielded to the inevitable and said tartly:
一时之间，玛丽拉似乎有些话不该说出口。然后她就屈服了，尖酸刻薄地说：

‘Very well, she can go, since nothing else’ll please you.’
“好吧，她可以走了，因为没有什么能让你高兴了。”

Anne flew out of the pantry, dripping dishcloth in hand.
安妮飞出了食品储藏室，手里拿着滴着水的抹布。

‘Oh, Marilla, Marilla, say those blessed words again.’
“哦，玛丽拉，玛丽拉，再说一遍那些神圣的话语。”

‘I guess once is enough to say them. This is Matthew’s doings and I wash my hands of it. If you catch pneumonia sleeping in a strange bed or coming out of that hot hall in the middle of the night, don’t blame me, blame Matthew. Anne Shirley, you’re dripping greasy water all over the floor. I never saw such a careless child.’
“我想说一次就足够了。这是马修的所作所为，我不予理睬。如果你睡在陌生的床上或者半夜从炎热的大厅里出来得了肺炎，不要怪我，要怪马修。安妮·雪莉，你把油腻的水滴得满地都是。我从来没有见过这么粗心的孩子。

‘Oh, I know I’m a great trial to you, Marilla,’ said Anne repentantly. ‘I make so many mistakes. But then just think of all the mistakes I don’t make, although I might. I’ll get some sand and scrub up the spots before I go to school. Oh, Marilla, my heart was just set on going to that concert. I never was to a concert in my life, and when the other girls talk about them in school I feel so out of it. You didn’t know just how I felt about it, but you see Matthew did. Matthew understands me, and it’s so nice to be understood, Marilla.’
“哦，我知道我对你来说是一个巨大的考验，玛丽拉，”安妮悔恨地说。 ‘我犯了很多错误。但想想我没有犯的所有错误，尽管我可能会犯。去学校之前我会拿一些沙子擦洗那些地方。哦，玛丽拉，我一心只想去听那场音乐会。我一生中从未参加过音乐会，当其他女孩在学校谈论它们时，我感到很不舒服。你不知道我对此有何感受，但你看马修知道。马修理解我，被理解真是太好了，玛丽拉。”

Anne was too excited to do herself justice as to lessons that morning in school. Gilbert Blythe spelled her down in class and left her clear out of sight in mental arithmetic. Anne’s consequent humiliation was less than it might have been, however, in view of the concert and the spare-room bed. She and Diana talked so constantly about it all day that with a stricter teacher than Mr. Phillips dire disgrace must inevitably have been their portion.
安妮太兴奋了，无法公正地对待那天早上在学校的课程。吉尔伯特·布莱斯（Gilbert Blythe）在课堂上拼出了她的名字，并在心算中让她远离了人们的视线。然而，考虑到音乐会和空余的床位，安妮因此受到的羞辱并没有想象中那么严重。她和戴安娜整天不断地谈论这件事，如果老师比菲利普斯先生更严格，他们必然会遭受可怕的耻辱。

Anne felt that she could not have borne it if she had not been going to the concert, for nothing else was discussed that day in school. The Avonlea Debating Club, which met fortnightly all winter, had had several smaller free entertainments; but this was to be a big affair, admission ten cents, in aid of the library. The Avonlea young people had been practicing for weeks, and all the scholars were especially interested in it by reason of older brothers and sisters who were going to take part. Everybody in school over nine years of age expected to go, except Carrie Sloane, whose father shared Marilla’s opinions about small girls going out to night concerts. Carrie Sloane cried into her grammar all the afternoon and felt that life was not worth living.
安妮觉得如果她不去听音乐会她就无法忍受，因为那天学校里没有讨论任何其他事情。埃文利辩论俱乐部整个冬天每两周举行一次聚会，有几场规模较小的免费娱乐活动。但这是一件大事，入场费十美分，以资助图书馆。埃文利的年轻人已经练习了几个星期了，所有的学者都因为要参加的哥哥姐姐们而特别感兴趣。学校里九岁以上的每个人都希望去，除了凯丽·斯隆，她的父亲同意玛丽拉关于小女孩出去参加夜间音乐会的看法。凯莉·斯隆整个下午都在为她的语法哭泣，觉得生活不值得过。

For Anne the real excitement began with the dismissal of school and increased therefrom in crescendo until it reached to a crash of positive ecstasy in the concert itself. They had a ‘perfectly elegant tea;’ and then came the delicious occupation of dressing in Diana’s little room upstairs. Diana did Anne’s front hair in the new pompadour style and Anne tied Diana’s bows with the especial knack she possessed; and they experimented with at least half a dozen different ways of arranging their back hair. At last they were ready, cheeks scarlet and eyes glowing with excitement.
对于安妮来说，真正的兴奋始于学校放学，然后逐渐增强，直到音乐会本身达到了彻底的狂喜。他们喝了一杯“非常优雅的茶”；然后在楼上戴安娜的小房间里开始了愉快的穿衣打扮。戴安娜将安妮的前面的头发梳成了新的蓬巴杜风格，安妮则用她所拥有的特殊技巧为戴安娜打上了蝴蝶结。他们尝试了至少六种不同的方式来整理后背的头发。他们终于准备好了，脸颊猩红，眼睛里闪烁着兴奋的光芒。

True, Anne could not help a little pang when she contrasted her plain black tam and shapeless, tight-sleeved, homemade gray-cloth coat with Diana’s jaunty fur cap and smart little jacket. But she remembered in time that she had an imagination and could use it.
确实，当安妮将她朴素的黑色Tam和不成形的紧身袖自制灰布外套与戴安娜活泼的毛皮帽和漂亮的小夹克形成鲜明对比时，她不禁感到有点痛苦。但她及时想起自己有想象力并且可以运用它。

Then Diana’s cousins, the Murrays from Newbridge, came; they all crowded into the big pung sleigh, among straw and furry robes. Anne reveled in the drive to the hall, slipping along over the satin-smooth roads with the snow crisping under the runners. There was a magnificent sunset, and the snowy hills and deep-blue water of the St. Lawrence Gulf seemed to rim??? in the splendor like a huge bowl of pearl and sapphire brimmed with wine and fire. Tinkles of sleigh bells and distant laughter, that seemed like the mirth of wood elves, came from every quarter.
然后戴安娜的表兄弟，来自纽布里奇的默里一家也来了。他们全都挤进大彭雪橇，穿着稻草和毛茸茸的长袍。安妮陶醉在开车去大厅的路上，在光滑的道路上滑行，雪在跑步者的脚下嘎吱作响。那里有壮丽的日落，白雪皑皑的山丘和圣劳伦斯湾深蓝色的海水似乎在边缘？？？如同一大碗珍珠和蓝宝石，盛满了酒和火。雪橇铃的叮当声和远处的笑声，仿佛木精灵的欢笑，从四面八方传来。

‘Oh, Diana,’ breathed Anne, squeezing Diana’s mittened hand under the fur robe, ‘isn’t it all like a beautiful dream? Do I really look the same as usual? I feel so different that it seems to me it must show in my looks.’
“哦，戴安娜，”安妮喘息着，将戴安娜戴着手套的手捏在毛皮长袍下，“这一切不是像一场美丽的梦吗？我看起来真的和平常一样吗？我感觉自己很不一样，在我看来，这一定会体现在我的外表上。”

‘You look awfully nice,’ said Diana, who having just received a compliment from one of her cousins, felt that she ought to pass it on. ‘You’ve got the loveliest color.’
“你看起来非常好，”戴安娜说，她刚刚收到了她的一个表兄弟的赞美，觉得她应该把它传递下去。 “你有最可爱的颜色。”

The program that night was a series of ‘thrills’ for at least one listener in the audience, and, as Anne assured Diana, every succeeding thrill was thrillier than the last. When Prissy Andrews, attired in a new pink-silk waist with a string of pearls about her smooth white throat and real carnations in her hair—rumor whispered that the master had sent all the way to town for them for her—‘climbed the slimy ladder, dark without one ray of light,’ Anne shivered in luxurious sympathy; when the choir sang ‘Far Above the Gentle Daisies’ Anne gazed at the ceiling as if it were frescoed with angels; when Sam Sloane proceeded to explain and illustrate ‘How Sockery Set a Hen’ Anne laughed until people sitting near her laughed too, more out of sympathy with her than with amusement at a selection that was rather threadbare even in Avonlea; and when Mr. Phillips gave Mark Antony’s oration over the dead body of Caesar in the most heartstirring tones—looking at Prissy Andrews at the end of every sentence—Anne felt that she could rise and mutiny on the spot if but one Roman citizen led the way.
那天晚上的节目对观众中的至少一位听众来说是一系列的“刺激”，正如安妮向戴安娜保证的那样，每一次后续的刺激都比上一次更刺激。当普莉西·安德鲁斯穿着新的粉红色丝绸腰装，光滑的白色喉咙上挂着一串珍珠，头发上插着真正的康乃馨时——有传言说主人派了大老远到城里来找她——“爬上了黏糊糊的山”。 “梯子里漆黑一片，没有一丝光亮。”安妮在极度的同情中颤抖着。当唱诗班唱起《远在温柔的雏菊之上》时，安妮凝视着天花板，仿佛天花板上画着天使。当萨姆·斯隆（Sam Sloane）继续解释和说明“袜子如何养母鸡”时，安妮笑了，直到坐在她旁边的人也笑了，更多的是出于对她的同情，而不是对即使在埃文利（Avonlea）也相当陈旧的选择感到高兴；当菲利普斯先生用最令人心碎的语气向马克·安东尼发表关于凯撒尸体的演说时——每句话末尾都看着普里西·安德鲁斯——安妮觉得，只要有一个罗马公民领导她，她就可以当场起义并叛变。方式。

Only one number on the program failed to interest her. When Gilbert Blythe recited ‘Bingen on the Rhine’ Anne picked up Rhoda Murray’s library book and read it until he had finished, when she sat rigidly stiff and motionless while Diana clapped her hands until they tingled.
节目中只有一个数字未能引起她的兴趣。当吉尔伯特·布莱斯背诵《莱茵河畔的宾根》时，安妮拿起罗达·默里在图书馆的书，读到他读完，然后她僵硬地坐着，一动不动，而戴安娜则拍着手，直到手发麻。

It was eleven when they got home, sated with dissipation, but with the exceeding sweet pleasure of talking it all over still to come. Everybody seemed asleep and the house was dark and silent. Anne and Diana tiptoed into the parlor, a long narrow room out of which the spare room opened. It was pleasantly warm and dimly lighted by the embers of a fire in the grate.
他们回到家时已是十一点了，他们已经满足了放纵的心情，但还有一种无比甜蜜的快乐，那就是谈论这一切。每个人似乎都睡着了，房子里漆黑一片，一片寂静。安妮和戴安娜蹑手蹑脚地走进客厅，这是一间狭长的房间，空房间通向客厅。炉排里的余烬照亮了房间，温暖宜人。

‘Let’s undress here,’ said Diana. ‘It’s so nice and warm.’
“我们在这里脱衣服吧，”戴安娜说。 “真是太好了，太温暖了。”

‘Hasn’t it been a delightful time?’ sighed Anne rapturously. ‘It must be splendid to get up and recite there. Do you suppose we will ever be asked to do it, Diana?’
“这不是一段愉快的时光吗？”安妮兴高采烈地叹了口气。 ‘站起来念经一定很精彩。你认为我们会被要求这样做吗，戴安娜？

‘Yes, of course, someday. They’re always wanting the big scholars to recite. Gilbert Blythe does often and he’s only two years older than us. Oh, Anne, how could you pretend not to listen to him? When he came to the line,
“是的，当然，有一天。他们总是要大学者来背诵。吉尔伯特·布莱斯经常这样做，他只比我们大两岁。哦，安妮，你怎么能假装不听他的话呢？当他来到排队的时候，

‘THERE’S ANOTHER, not A SISTER,
“还有另一个，不是姐妹，

he looked right down at you.’
他正低头看着你。

‘Diana,’ said Anne with dignity, ‘you are my bosom friend, but I cannot allow even you to speak to me of that person. Are you ready for bed? Let’s run a race and see who’ll get to the bed first.’
“戴安娜，”安妮尊严地说，“你是我的知己，但我什至不允许你跟我谈论那个人。你准备好睡觉了吗？我们来赛跑吧，看看谁先上床睡觉。”

The suggestion appealed to Diana. The two little white-clad figures flew down the long room, through the spare-room door, and bounded on the bed at the same moment. And then—something—moved beneath them, there was a gasp and a cry—and somebody said in muffled accents:
这个建议对戴安娜很有吸引力。两个白衣小人飞下长长的房间，穿过空房间的门，同时跳到了床上。然后——有什么东西——在他们下面移动，传来一声喘息和一声叫喊——有人用低沉的口音说道：

‘Merciful goodness!’
“仁慈的善良！”

Anne and Diana were never able to tell just how they got off that bed and out of the room. They only knew that after one frantic rush they found themselves tiptoeing shiveringly upstairs.
安妮和戴安娜始终无法说出她们是如何从床上下来并走出房间的。他们只知道，一阵疯狂的冲刺之后，他们发现自己颤抖着蹑手蹑脚地上了楼。

‘Oh, who was it—WHAT was it?’ whispered Anne, her teeth chattering with cold and fright.
“哦，那是谁——那是什么？”安妮低声问道，她的牙齿因寒冷和恐惧而打战。

‘It was Aunt Josephine,’ said Diana, gasping with laughter. ‘Oh, Anne, it was Aunt Josephine, however she came to be there. Oh, and I know she will be furious. It’s dreadful—it’s really dreadful—but did you ever know anything so funny, Anne?’
“是约瑟芬姨妈，”黛安娜说，笑得气喘吁吁。 “哦，安妮，那是约瑟芬姨妈，不管她怎么来的。哦，我知道她会很生气。这太可怕了——真的太可怕了——但是你知道有这么有趣的事吗，安妮？

‘Who is your Aunt Josephine?’
“你的约瑟芬姨妈是谁？”

‘She’s father’s aunt and she lives in Charlottetown. She’s awfully old—seventy anyhow—and I don’t believe she was EVER a little girl. We were expecting her out for a visit, but not so soon. She’s awfully prim and proper and she’ll scold dreadfully about this, I know. Well, we’ll have to sleep with Minnie May—and you can’t think how she kicks.’
“她是父亲的姨妈，住在夏洛特敦。她已经很老了——不管怎样——我不相信她曾经是个小女孩。我们期待她来拜访，但没那么快。她非常拘谨和得体，我知道她会为此大骂一顿。好吧，我们得和米妮·梅一起睡觉——你无法想象她踢得怎么样。

Miss Josephine Barry did not appear at the early breakfast the next morning. Mrs. Barry smiled kindly at the two little girls.
约瑟芬·巴里小姐没有出现在第二天早上的早餐会上。巴里夫人对两个小女孩和蔼地微笑。

‘Did you have a good time last night? I tried to stay awake until you came home, for I wanted to tell you Aunt Josephine had come and that you would have to go upstairs after all, but I was so tired I fell asleep. I hope you didn’t disturb your aunt, Diana.’
‘昨晚过得愉快吗？我试着保持清醒，直到你回家，因为我想告诉你约瑟芬姨妈来了，你毕竟得上楼了，但我太累了，睡着了。我希望你没有打扰你的阿姨戴安娜。

Diana preserved a discreet silence, but she and Anne exchanged furtive smiles of guilty amusement across the table. Anne hurried home after breakfast and so remained in blissful ignorance of the disturbance which presently resulted in the Barry household until the late afternoon, when she went down to Mrs. Lynde’s on an errand for Marilla.
戴安娜保持着谨慎的沉默，但她和安妮隔着桌子偷偷地交换了一个内疚的微笑。早餐后，安妮匆忙回家，直到下午晚些时候，她才去林德太太家为马里拉办事，对巴里家不久前发生的骚乱一无所知。

‘So you and Diana nearly frightened poor old Miss Barry to death last night?’ said Mrs. Lynde severely, but with a twinkle in her eye. ‘Mrs. Barry was here a few minutes ago on her way to Carmody. She’s feeling real worried over it. Old Miss Barry was in a terrible temper when she got up this morning—and Josephine Barry’s temper is no joke, I can tell you that. She wouldn’t speak to Diana at all.’
“这么说，昨晚你和戴安娜差点把可怜的老巴里小姐吓死了？”林德太太严厉地说，但眼睛里闪烁着光芒。 '太太。几分钟前，巴里在前往卡莫迪的路上来到这里。她对此感到非常担心。老巴里小姐今天早上起床时脾气很坏——我可以告诉你，约瑟芬·巴里的脾气可不是开玩笑。她根本不会和戴安娜说话。

‘It wasn’t Diana’s fault,’ said Anne contritely. ‘It was mine. I suggested racing to see who would get into bed first.’
“这不是戴安娜的错，”安妮懊悔地说。 ‘这是我的。我建议比赛看谁先上床睡觉。

‘I knew it!’ said Mrs. Lynde, with the exultation of a correct guesser. ‘I knew that idea came out of your head. Well, it’s made a nice lot of trouble, that’s what. Old Miss Barry came out to stay for a month, but she declares she won’t stay another day and is going right back to town tomorrow, Sunday and all as it is. She’d have gone today if they could have taken her. She had promised to pay for a quarter’s music lessons for Diana, but now she is determined to do nothing at all for such a tomboy. Oh, I guess they had a lively time of it there this morning. The Barrys must feel cut up. Old Miss Barry is rich and they’d like to keep on the good side of her. Of course, Mrs. Barry didn’t say just that to me, but I’m a pretty good judge of human nature, that’s what.’
“我就知道！”林德太太兴奋地说，就像猜对了一样。 “我知道这个想法是从你脑子里冒出来的。好吧，这确实造成了很多麻烦，就是这样。老巴里小姐出来要住一个月，但她宣布她不会再住一天，明天周日就回城里，一切照常。如果他们能带走她的话，她今天就走了。她本来答应为戴安娜支付四分之一的音乐课费用，但现在她决定不为这样一个假小子做任何事。哦，我想他们今天早上在那里玩得很开心。巴里夫妇一定感到心碎了。老巴里小姐很有钱，他们想对她保持好感。当然，巴里夫人不仅仅对我这么说，但我对人性有很好的判断力，就是这样。

‘I’m such an unlucky girl,’ mourned Anne. ‘I’m always getting into scrapes myself and getting my best friends—people I’d shed my heart’s blood for—into them too. Can you tell me why it is so, Mrs. Lynde?’
“我真是个不幸的女孩，”安妮哀悼道。 “我自己总是陷入困境，也让我最好的朋友——那些我为之流血的人——也陷入了困境。你能告诉我为什么会这样吗，林德夫人？

‘It’s because you’re too heedless and impulsive, child, that’s what. You never stop to think—whatever comes into your head to say or do you say or do it without a moment’s reflection.’
‘那是因为你太粗心太冲动了，孩子，就是这样。你永远不会停下来思考——无论你脑子里想到什么，或者你说了什么，做了什么，都不经过片刻的反思。

‘Oh, but that’s the best of it,’ protested Anne. ‘Something just flashes into your mind, so exciting, and you must out with it. If you stop to think it over you spoil it all. Haven’t you never felt that yourself, Mrs. Lynde?’
“哦，不过这样最好了，”安妮抗议道。 “有些事情突然闪现在你的脑海里，非常令人兴奋，你必须把它解决掉。如果你停下来想一想，你就会破坏一切。林德夫人，你自己难道没有这样的感觉吗？

No, Mrs. Lynde had not. She shook her head sagely.
不，林德夫人没有。她明智地摇摇头。

‘You must learn to think a little, Anne, that’s what. The proverb you need to go by is ‘Look before you leap’—especially into spare-room beds.’
“你必须学会​​思考一下，安妮，就是这样。你需要遵循的谚语是“三思而后行”——尤其是在空房间的床上。

Mrs. Lynde laughed comfortably over her mild joke, but Anne remained pensive. She saw nothing to laugh at in the situation, which to her eyes appeared very serious. When she left Mrs. Lynde’s she took her way across the crusted fields to Orchard Slope. Diana met her at the kitchen door.
林德夫人听了她温和的笑话，舒舒服服地笑了，但安妮仍然陷入沉思。她看不出现在的情况有什么好笑的，在她看来，情况非常严重。当她离开林德夫人家时，她穿过结了硬皮的田野，来到了果园坡。戴安娜在厨房门口遇见了她。

‘Your Aunt Josephine was very cross about it, wasn’t she?’ whispered Anne.
“你的约瑟芬姨妈对此非常生气，不是吗？”安妮低声说道。

‘Yes,’ answered Diana, stifling a giggle with an apprehensive glance over her shoulder at the closed sitting-room door. ‘She was fairly dancing with rage, Anne. Oh, how she scolded. She said I was the worst-behaved girl she ever saw and that my parents ought to be ashamed of the way they had brought me up. She says she won’t stay and I’m sure I don’t care. But Father and Mother do.’
“是的，”黛安娜回答道，她强忍着笑意，转头忧心忡忡地看了一眼紧闭的客厅门。 “安妮，她气得手舞足蹈。哦，她骂得多么厉害。她说我是她见过的行为最差的女孩，我的父母应该为他们抚养我的方式感到羞耻。她说她不会留下来，我确信我不在乎。但父亲和母亲却这样做。

‘Why didn’t you tell them it was my fault?’ demanded Anne.
“你为什么不告诉他们这是我的错？”安妮问道。

‘It’s likely I’d do such a thing, isn’t it?’ said Diana with just scorn. ‘I’m no telltale, Anne Shirley, and anyhow I was just as much to blame as you.’
“我很可能会做这样的事，不是吗？”戴安娜轻蔑地说。 “我不会泄露秘密，安妮·雪莉，无论如何，我和你一样应该受到责备。”

‘Well, I’m going in to tell her myself,’ said Anne resolutely.
“好吧，我要亲自去告诉她。”安妮坚决地说。

Diana stared.
戴安娜凝视着。

‘Anne Shirley, you’d never! why—she’ll eat you alive!’
“安妮雪莉，你永远不会！为什么——她会活活吃掉你！

‘Don’t frighten me any more than I am frightened,’ implored Anne. ‘I’d rather walk up to a cannon’s mouth. But I’ve got to do it, Diana. It was my fault and I’ve got to confess. I’ve had practice in confessing, fortunately.’
“别再吓我了，就像我害怕一样。”安妮恳求道。 “我宁愿走到炮口前。但我必须这么做，戴安娜。这是我的错，我必须承认。幸运的是，我有过坦白的练习。

‘Well, she’s in the room,’ said Diana. ‘You can go in if you want to. I wouldn’t dare. And I don’t believe you’ll do a bit of good.’
“嗯，她在房间里，”戴安娜说。 ‘如果你愿意的话可以进去。我不敢。我不相信你会做一点善事。”

With this encouragement Anne bearded the lion in its den—that is to say, walked resolutely up to the sitting-room door and knocked faintly. A sharp ‘Come in’ followed.
在这种鼓励下，安妮把狮子带进了洞里——也就是说，她坚定地走到客厅的门前，轻轻地敲了敲门。随后是一声尖锐的“请进”。

Miss Josephine Barry, thin, prim, and rigid, was knitting fiercely by the fire, her wrath quite unappeased and her eyes snapping through her gold-rimmed glasses. She wheeled around in her chair, expecting to see Diana, and beheld a white-faced girl whose great eyes were brimmed up with a mixture of desperate courage and shrinking terror.
约瑟芬·巴里小姐身材瘦削，拘谨而僵硬，她正在火边拼命地织毛衣，她的怒火丝毫没有平息，她的眼睛透过金丝边眼镜猛地瞪着。她在椅子上转过身来，期待见到戴安娜，却看到了一个白脸女孩，她的大眼睛里充满了绝望的勇气和畏缩的恐惧。

‘Who are you?’ demanded Miss Josephine Barry, without ceremony.
“你是谁？”约瑟芬·巴里小姐毫不客气地问道。

‘I’m Anne of Green Gables,’ said the small visitor tremulously, clasping her hands with her characteristic gesture, ‘and I’ve come to confess, if you please.’
“我是绿山墙的安妮，”小访客颤抖着说道，用她特有的姿势握紧双手，“如果您愿意的话，我是来坦白的。”

‘Confess what?’
“坦白什么？”

‘That it was all my fault about jumping into bed on you last night. I suggested it. Diana would never have thought of such a thing, I am sure. Diana is a very ladylike girl, Miss Barry. So you must see how unjust it is to blame her.’
‘昨晚跳到床上压着你都是我的错。我建议的。我确信戴安娜永远不会想到这样的事情。戴安娜是一位非常淑女的女孩，巴里小姐。所以你必须明白责怪她是多么不公正。

‘Oh, I must, hey? I rather think Diana did her share of the jumping at least. Such carryings on in a respectable house!’
‘哦，我必须这样做，嘿？我宁愿认为戴安娜至少完成了她应有的跳跃。在一个受人尊敬的房子里竟然有这样的行为！

‘But we were only in fun,’ persisted Anne. ‘I think you ought to forgive us, Miss Barry, now that we’ve apologized. And anyhow, please forgive Diana and let her have her music lessons. Diana’s heart is set on her music lessons, Miss Barry, and I know too well what it is to set your heart on a thing and not get it. If you must be cross with anyone, be cross with me. I’ve been so used in my early days to having people cross at me that I can endure it much better than Diana can.’
“但我们只是为了好玩，”安妮坚持道。 “我想你应该原谅我们，巴里小姐，既然我们已经道歉了。不管怎样，请原谅戴安娜，让她上音乐课。戴安娜一心扑在她的音乐课上，巴里小姐，我太清楚当你一心扑在一件事上却得不到它是什么滋味。如果你必须对任何人发脾气，那就对我发脾气吧。我早年已经习惯了别人对我发脾气，所以我比戴安娜更能忍受。

Much of the snap had gone out of the old lady’s eyes by this time and was replaced by a twinkle of amused interest. But she still said severely:
这时，老太太眼中的怒气已经消失了，取而代之的是一抹有趣的兴趣。但她还是严肃地说：

‘I don’t think it is any excuse for you that you were only in fun. Little girls never indulged in that kind of fun when I was young. You don’t know what it is to be awakened out of a sound sleep, after a long and arduous journey, by two great girls coming bounce down on you.’
“我不认为你只是为了好玩而成为你的借口。我小时候，小女孩从来没有沉迷于这种乐趣。你不知道在经历了漫长而艰辛的旅程后，两个伟大的女孩向你扑来，从熟睡中醒来是什么感觉。

‘I don’t KNOW, but I can IMAGINE,’ said Anne eagerly. ‘I’m sure it must have been very disturbing. But then, there is our side of it too. Have you any imagination, Miss Barry? If you have, just put yourself in our place. We didn’t know there was anybody in that bed and you nearly scared us to death. It was simply awful the way we felt. And then we couldn’t sleep in the spare room after being promised. I suppose you are used to sleeping in spare rooms. But just imagine what you would feel like if you were a little orphan girl who had never had such an honor.’
“我不知道，但我可以想象，”安妮急切地说。 “我确信这一定非常令人不安。但同时，也有我们的一面。巴里小姐，你有想象力吗？如果你有的话，请设身处地为我们着想。我们不知道那张床上有人，你差点把我们吓死。我们的感受简直太糟糕了。然后我们在答应后就无法在空房间里睡觉了。我想你已经习惯睡在空房间里了。但想象一下，如果你是一个从未获得过这样的荣誉的小孤女，你会有什么感觉。

All the snap had gone by this time. Miss Barry actually laughed—a sound which caused Diana, waiting in speechless anxiety in the kitchen outside, to give a great gasp of relief.
此时所有的快照都已经消失了。巴里小姐真的笑了——这声音让黛安娜在外面厨房里焦急得说不出话来，这才松了一口气。

‘I’m afraid my imagination is a little rusty—it’s so long since I used it,’ she said. ‘I dare say your claim to sympathy is just as strong as mine. It all depends on the way we look at it. Sit down here and tell me about yourself.’
“恐怕我的想象力有点生疏了——我已经很久没有使用它了，”她说。 “我敢说你的同情心和我的一样强烈。这完全取决于我们看待它的方式。坐在这里，告诉我关于你自己的事。

‘I am very sorry I can’t,’ said Anne firmly. ‘I would like to, because you seem like an interesting lady, and you might even be a kindred spirit although you don’t look very much like it. But it is my duty to go home to Miss Marilla Cuthbert. Miss Marilla Cuthbert is a very kind lady who has taken me to bring up properly. She is doing her best, but it is very discouraging work. You must not blame her because I jumped on the bed. But before I go I do wish you would tell me if you will forgive Diana and stay just as long as you meant to in Avonlea.’
“很抱歉我不能，”安妮坚定地说。 “我愿意，因为你看起来是一位有趣的女士，甚至可能是志同道合的人，尽管你们看起来不太像。但我有责任回家见玛丽拉·卡斯伯特小姐。玛丽拉·卡斯伯特小姐是一位非常善良的女士，她很好地抚养了我。她正在尽力而为，但这是非常令人沮丧的工作。你不能因为我跳到床上就责怪她。但在我走之前，我真希望你能告诉我你是否会原谅戴安娜，并按照你的意愿留在埃文利。”

‘I think perhaps I will if you will come over and talk to me occasionally,’ said Miss Barry.
“我想也许我会的，如果你偶尔过来跟我说话的话，”巴里小姐说。

That evening Miss Barry gave Diana a silver bangle bracelet and told the senior members of the household that she had unpacked her valise.
那天晚上，巴里小姐送给戴安娜一条银手镯，并告诉家里的高级成员，她已经打开了她的手提箱。

‘I’ve made up my mind to stay simply for the sake of getting better acquainted with that Anne-girl,’ she said frankly. ‘She amuses me, and at my time of life an amusing person is a rarity.’
“我决定留下来，只是为了更好地了解那个安妮女孩。”她坦白地说。 “她让我很有趣，在我这个年纪，有趣的人是很少见的。”

Marilla’s only comment when she heard the story was, ‘I told you so.’ This was for Matthew’s benefit.
玛丽拉听到这个故事时唯一的评论是，“我告诉过你了。”这是为了马修的利益。

Miss Barry stayed her month out and over. She was a more agreeable guest than usual, for Anne kept her in good humor. They became firm friends.
巴里小姐一连住了一个月。她是一位比平常更讨人喜欢的客人，因为安妮让她保持着良好的幽默感。他们成了坚定的朋友。

When Miss Barry went away she said:
巴里小姐走后她说：

‘Remember, you Anne-girl, when you come to town you’re to visit me and I’ll put you in my very sparest spare-room bed to sleep.’
“记住，你这个安妮女孩，当你来到城里时，你要来看我，我会把你放在我最宽敞的备用床上睡觉。”

‘Miss Barry was a kindred spirit, after all,’ Anne confided to Marilla. ‘You wouldn’t think so to look at her, but she is. You don’t find it right out at first, as in Matthew’s case, but after a while you come to see it. Kindred spirits are not so scarce as I used to think. It’s splendid to find out there are so many of them in the world.’
“毕竟，巴里小姐是志同道合的人，”安妮向玛丽拉吐露道。 “看着她你不会这么认为，但她确实是。一开始你并没有立即发现它，就像马修的情况一样，但过了一段时间你就会发现它。志同道合的人并不像我以前想象的那么稀缺。发现世界上有这么多这样的人真是太棒了。”

Chapter XX
第二十章


A Good Imagination Gone Wrong
美好的想象出了问题

Spring had come once more to Green Gables—the beautiful capricious, reluctant Canadian spring, lingering along through April and May in a succession of sweet, fresh, chilly days, with pink sunsets and miracles of resurrection and growth. The maples in Lover’s Lane were red budded and little curly ferns pushed up around the Dryad’s Bubble. Away up in the barrens, behind Mr. Silas Sloane’s place, the Mayflowers blossomed out, pink and white stars of sweetness under their brown leaves. All the school girls and boys had one golden afternoon gathering them, coming home in the clear, echoing twilight with arms and baskets full of flowery spoil.
春天再次来到了绿山墙——美丽的、反复无常的、不情愿的加拿大春天，在四月和五月中持续存在，伴随着一连串甜蜜、清新、寒冷的日子，伴随着粉红色的日落和复活和生长的奇迹。情人巷里的枫树已经发出了红色的芽，树妖泡泡周围长满了卷曲的小蕨类植物。在塞拉斯·斯隆先生住所后面的贫瘠之地，五月花绽放，棕色的叶子下绽放着粉色和白色的甜蜜星星。所有的男生和女生都度过了一个金色的下午，他们在晴朗的夜色中怀揣着装满鲜花的战利品的手臂和篮子回家。

‘I’m so sorry for people who live in lands where there are no Mayflowers,’ said Anne. ‘Diana says perhaps they have something better, but there couldn’t be anything better than Mayflowers, could there, Marilla? And Diana says if they don’t know what they are like they don’t miss them. But I think that is the saddest thing of all. I think it would be TRAGIC, Marilla, not to know what Mayflowers are like and NOT to miss them. Do you know what I think Mayflowers are, Marilla? I think they must be the souls of the flowers that died last summer and this is their heaven. But we had a splendid time today, Marilla. We had our lunch down in a big mossy hollow by an old well—such a ROMANTIC spot. Charlie Sloane dared Arty Gillis to jump over it, and Arty did because he wouldn’t take a dare. Nobody would in school. It is very FASHIONABLE to dare. Mr. Phillips gave all the Mayflowers he found to Prissy Andrews and I heard him to say ‘sweets to the sweet.’ He got that out of a book, I know; but it shows he has some imagination. I was offered some Mayflowers too, but I rejected them with scorn. I can’t tell you the person’s name because I have vowed never to let it cross my lips. We made wreaths of the Mayflowers and put them on our hats; and when the time came to go home we marched in procession down the road, two by two, with our bouquets and wreaths, singing ‘My Home on the Hill.’ Oh, it was so thrilling, Marilla. All Mr. Silas Sloane’s folks rushed out to see us and everybody we met on the road stopped and stared after us. We made a real sensation.’
“我对生活在没有五月花号的土地上的人们感到非常抱歉，”安妮说。 “戴安娜说也许他们有更好的东西，但没有比五月花号更好的东西了，不是吗，玛丽拉？戴安娜说，如果他们不知道自己是什么样的，他们就不会想念他们。但我认为这是最可悲的事情。我认为，玛丽拉，如果不知道五月花是什么样子，也不错过它们，那将是一场悲剧。你知道我认为五月花号是什么吗，玛丽拉？我想它们一定是去年夏天死去的花朵的灵魂，这里就是它们的天堂。但今天我们度过了一段美好的时光，玛丽拉。我们在一口老井旁一个长满青苔的大洼地里吃午饭——真是个浪漫的地方。查理·斯隆鼓励阿蒂·吉利斯跳过它，阿蒂这么做了，因为他不敢冒险。学校里没有人愿意。敢于尝试是非常时尚的。菲利普斯先生把他找到的所有五月花号都给了普里西·安德鲁斯，我听到他说“甜到甜”。我知道，他是从一本书里学来的。但这表明他有一定的想象力。有人还向我提供了一些五月花，但我轻蔑地拒绝了。我不能告诉你这个人的名字，因为我发誓永远不会让它从我的嘴里说出。我们用五月花制作了花环，把它们戴在帽子上；当回家的时候，我们两个两个地带着花束和花圈沿着路游行，唱着“我的山上的家”。哦，这太令人兴奋了，玛丽拉。塞拉斯·斯隆先生的所有家人都冲出来看我们，我们在路上遇到的每个人都停下来盯着我们看。我们确实引起了轰动。

‘Not much wonder! Such silly doings!’ was Marilla’s response.
‘没什么奇怪的！真是愚蠢的行为！”玛丽拉回答道。

After the Mayflowers came the violets, and Violet Vale was empurpled with them. Anne walked through it on her way to school with reverent steps and worshiping eyes, as if she trod on holy ground.
继五月花之后，又迎来了紫罗兰，整个紫罗兰谷都被它们染上了紫色。安妮在上学的路上迈着虔诚的步伐和崇拜的目光走过这里，仿佛踏在圣地上。

‘Somehow,’ she told Diana, ‘when I’m going through here I don’t really care whether Gil—whether anybody gets ahead of me in class or not. But when I’m up in school it’s all different and I care as much as ever. There’s such a lot of different Annes in me. I sometimes think that is why I’m such a troublesome person. If I was just the one Anne it would be ever so much more comfortable, but then it wouldn’t be half so interesting.’
“不知何故，”她告诉戴安娜，“当我经过这里时，我并不真正关心吉尔是否——是否有人在课堂上领先于我。但当我上学时，一切都不同了，我一如既往地关心。我身上有很多不同的安妮。有时我想这就是为什么我是一个如此麻烦的人。如果我只是安妮，那会舒服得多，但那就不会那么有趣了。

One June evening, when the orchards were pink blossomed again, when the frogs were singing silverly sweet in the marshes about the head of the Lake of Shining Waters, and the air was full of the savor of clover fields and balsamic fir woods, Anne was sitting by her gable window. She had been studying her lessons, but it had grown too dark to see the book, so she had fallen into wide-eyed reverie, looking out past the boughs of the Snow Queen, once more bestarred with its tufts of blossom.
六月的一个傍晚，当果园又开出粉红色的花朵，当青蛙在闪亮湖畔的沼泽地里唱着银铃般甜美的歌声，空气中充满了三叶草田和香脂冷杉林的香味时，安妮坐在她的山墙窗边。她一直在学习功课，但天色太暗了，看不清书本，所以她陷入了睁大眼睛的遐想，眺望着雪女王的树枝，雪女王的树枝再次布满了一簇簇花朵。

In all essential respects the little gable chamber was unchanged. The walls were as white, the pincushion as hard, the chairs as stiffly and yellowly upright as ever. Yet the whole character of the room was altered. It was full of a new vital, pulsing personality that seemed to pervade it and to be quite independent of schoolgirl books and dresses and ribbons, and even of the cracked blue jug full of apple blossoms on the table. It was as if all the dreams, sleeping and waking, of its vivid occupant had taken a visible although unmaterial form and had tapestried the bare room with splendid filmy tissues of rainbow and moonshine. Presently Marilla came briskly in with some of Anne’s freshly ironed school aprons. She hung them over a chair and sat down with a short sigh. She had had one of her headaches that afternoon, and although the pain had gone she felt weak and ‘tuckered out,’ as she expressed it. Anne looked at her with eyes limpid with sympathy.
小山墙室在所有重要方面都没有改变。墙壁一如既往地洁白，针垫一如既往地坚硬，椅子也一如既往地僵硬、呈黄色。然而房间的整体特征却发生了改变。它充满了一种新的、充满活力、脉动的个性，似乎弥漫在其中，完全独立于女学生的书籍、裙子和丝带，甚至独立于桌子上装满苹果花的破裂的蓝色水罐。就好像它生动的居住者的所有梦境，无论是睡着的还是醒着的，都采取了一种可见但非物质的形式，并用彩虹和月光的绚丽薄膜薄纸挂满了这个空荡荡的房间。不久，玛丽拉带着安妮刚熨好的学校围裙快步走了进来。她把它们挂在椅子上，然后短促地叹了口气坐下。那天下午，她出现了一次头痛，虽然疼痛已经消失，但正如她所说，她感到虚弱，“精神不振”。安妮看着她，眼神清澈，充满同情。

‘I do truly wish I could have had the headache in your place, Marilla. I would have endured it joyfully for your sake.’
“我真的希望我能代替你感到头痛，玛丽拉。为了你，我会高兴地忍受这一切。

‘I guess you did your part in attending to the work and letting me rest,’ said Marilla. ‘You seem to have got on fairly well and made fewer mistakes than usual. Of course it wasn’t exactly necessary to starch Matthew’s handkerchiefs! And most people when they put a pie in the oven to warm up for dinner take it out and eat it when it gets hot instead of leaving it to be burned to a crisp. But that doesn’t seem to be your way evidently.’
“我想你尽了自己的一份力，专注于工作并让我休息，”马里拉说。 “你们似乎相处得很好，犯的错误也比平时少了。当然，并不一定需要给马修的手帕上浆！大多数人当晚餐时将馅饼放入烤箱加热时，将其取出并在变热时吃掉，而不是将其烧焦。但这显然不是你的方式。”

Headaches always left Marilla somewhat sarcastic.
头痛总是让玛丽拉有些讽刺。

‘Oh, I’m so sorry,’ said Anne penitently. ‘I never thought about that pie from the moment I put it in the oven till now, although I felt INSTINCTIVELY that there was something missing on the dinner table. I was firmly resolved, when you left me in charge this morning, not to imagine anything, but keep my thoughts on facts. I did pretty well until I put the pie in, and then an irresistible temptation came to me to imagine I was an enchanted princess shut up in a lonely tower with a handsome knight riding to my rescue on a coal-black steed. So that is how I came to forget the pie. I didn’t know I starched the handkerchiefs. All the time I was ironing I was trying to think of a name for a new island Diana and I have discovered up the brook. It’s the most ravishing spot, Marilla. There are two maple trees on it and the brook flows right around it. At last it struck me that it would be splendid to call it Victoria Island because we found it on the Queen’s birthday. Both Diana and I are very loyal. But I’m sorry about that pie and the handkerchiefs. I wanted to be extra good today because it’s an anniversary. Do you remember what happened this day last year, Marilla?’
“哦，我很抱歉，”安妮悔恨地说。 “从我把馅饼放进烤箱的那一刻起直到现在，我从来没有想过它，尽管我本能地感觉到餐桌上缺少了一些东西。当你今天早上让我负责时，我就下定决心，不要想象任何事情，而要把我的想法放在事实上。我做得很好，直到我把馅饼放进去，然后一种不可抗拒的诱惑向我袭来，想象我是一位被施了魔法的公主，被关在一座孤独的塔楼里，一位英俊的骑士骑着一匹煤黑色的骏马来营救我。这就是我忘记馅饼的原因。我不知道我给手帕上浆了。我在熨衣服的时候一直在想一个新的岛屿戴安娜岛的名字，我在小溪上发现了这个岛。这是最迷人的地方，玛丽拉。上面有两棵枫树，小溪就在它周围流过。最后我突然想到，如果把它称为维多利亚岛，那就太棒了，因为我们是在女王生日那天发现它的。戴安娜和我都非常忠诚。但我对那个馅饼和手帕感到抱歉。今天我想表现得特别好，因为这是周年纪念日。你还记得去年今天发生的事情吗，玛丽拉？

‘No, I can’t think of anything special.’
“不，我想不出有什么特别的。”

‘Oh, Marilla, it was the day I came to Green Gables. I shall never forget it. It was the turning point in my life. Of course it wouldn’t seem so important to you. I’ve been here for a year and I’ve been so happy. Of course, I’ve had my troubles, but one can live down troubles. Are you sorry you kept me, Marilla?’
“哦，玛丽拉，那天我来到绿山墙。我永远不会忘记它。这是我人生的转折点。当然，这对你来说似乎并不那么重要。我在这里已经一年了，我很高兴。当然，我也有过烦恼，但一个人可以克服烦恼。你后悔留住了我吗，玛丽拉？

‘No, I can’t say I’m sorry,’ said Marilla, who sometimes wondered how she could have lived before Anne came to Green Gables, ‘no, not exactly sorry. If you’ve finished your lessons, Anne, I want you to run over and ask Mrs. Barry if she’ll lend me Diana’s apron pattern.’
“不，我不能说我很抱歉，”玛丽拉说，她有时想知道在安妮来到绿山墙之前她该如何生活，“不，不完全是抱歉。”如果你已经完成了课程，安妮，我希望你跑过去问巴里夫人是否可以借给我戴安娜的围裙图案。

‘Oh—it’s—it’s too dark,’ cried Anne.
“哦——这——太黑了，”安妮叫道。

‘Too dark? Why, it’s only twilight. And goodness knows you’ve gone over often enough after dark.’
'太暗了？为什么，这只是黄昏。天知道你已经经常在天黑后过去了。

‘I’ll go over early in the morning,’ said Anne eagerly. ‘I’ll get up at sunrise and go over, Marilla.’
“我一早就过去。”安妮急切地说。 “我会在日出时起床过去，玛丽拉。”

‘What has got into your head now, Anne Shirley? I want that pattern to cut out your new apron this evening. Go at once and be smart too.’
“安妮·雪莉，你现在脑子里在想什么？我想今晚用这个图案剪出你的新围裙。赶紧去吧，也要聪明一点。

‘I’ll have to go around by the road, then,’ said Anne, taking up her hat reluctantly.
“那我就得绕路走了。”安妮不情愿地拿起帽子说道。

‘Go by the road and waste half an hour! I’d like to catch you!’
‘沿着路走，浪费半个小时！我想抓住你！

‘I can’t go through the Haunted Wood, Marilla,’ cried Anne desperately.
“我不能穿过闹鬼的森林，玛丽拉，”安妮绝望地喊道。

Marilla stared.
玛丽拉凝视着。

‘The Haunted Wood! Are you crazy? What under the canopy is the Haunted Wood?’
‘闹鬼的森林！你疯了？天篷下面是什么鬼林？

‘The spruce wood over the brook,’ said Anne in a whisper.
“小溪那边的云杉林，”安妮低声说道。

‘Fiddlesticks! There is no such thing as a haunted wood anywhere. Who has been telling you such stuff?’
‘胡闹！任何地方都不存在闹鬼的树林。谁告诉你这些事了？

‘Nobody,’ confessed Anne. ‘Diana and I just imagined the wood was haunted. All the places around here are so—so—COMMONPLACE. We just got this up for our own amusement. We began it in April. A haunted wood is so very romantic, Marilla. We chose the spruce grove because it’s so gloomy. Oh, we have imagined the most harrowing things. There’s a white lady walks along the brook just about this time of the night and wrings her hands and utters wailing cries. She appears when there is to be a death in the family. And the ghost of a little murdered child haunts the corner up by Idlewild; it creeps up behind you and lays its cold fingers on your hand—so. Oh, Marilla, it gives me a shudder to think of it. And there’s a headless man stalks up and down the path and skeletons glower at you between the boughs. Oh, Marilla, I wouldn’t go through the Haunted Wood after dark now for anything. I’d be sure that white things would reach out from behind the trees and grab me.’
“没有人，”安妮承认道。 “戴安娜和我只是想象树林里闹鬼。这里周围的所有地方都是那么——那么——普通。我们只是为了自己的娱乐而提出这个。我们从四月份开始。闹鬼的树林真是太浪漫了，玛丽拉。我们选择了云杉林，因为它太阴暗了。哦，我们想象过最痛苦的事情。大约在晚上的这个时候，一位白人女士沿着小溪行走，绞着双手，发出哀号。当家里有人去世时，她就会出现。一个被谋杀的小孩子的鬼魂出没于艾德怀德街角。它爬到你身后，用冰冷的手指放在你的手上——就这样。哦，玛丽拉，一想到这件事我就不寒而栗。一个无头男人在小路上走来走去，树枝间的骷髅怒视着你。哦，玛丽拉，我现在无论如何都不会在天黑后穿过闹鬼的森林。我确信白色的东西会从树后伸出来抓住我。

‘Did ever anyone hear the like!’ ejaculated Marilla, who had listened in dumb amazement. ‘Anne Shirley, do you mean to tell me you believe all that wicked nonsense of your own imagination?’
“有人听过这样的事吗！”玛丽拉惊呼道，她听得目瞪口呆。 “安妮·雪莉，你的意思是告诉我你相信你自己想象的那些邪恶的废话吗？”

‘Not believe EXACTLY,’ faltered Anne. ‘At least, I don’t believe it in daylight. But after dark, Marilla, it’s different. That is when ghosts walk.’
“不太相信，”安妮结结巴巴地说。 ‘至少，白天我不相信。但天黑后，玛丽拉，情况就不一样了。那是鬼魂行走的时候。

‘There are no such things as ghosts, Anne.’
“安妮，世界上不存在鬼魂这种东西。”

‘Oh, but there are, Marilla,’ cried Anne eagerly. ‘I know people who have seen them. And they are respectable people. Charlie Sloane says that his grandmother saw his grandfather driving home the cows one night after he’d been buried for a year. You know Charlie Sloane’s grandmother wouldn’t tell a story for anything. She’s a very religious woman. And Mrs. Thomas’s father was pursued home one night by a lamb of fire with its head cut off hanging by a strip of skin. He said he knew it was the spirit of his brother and that it was a warning he would die within nine days. He didn’t, but he died two years after, so you see it was really true. And Ruby Gillis says—‘
“哦，但是有，玛丽拉，”安妮急切地喊道。 “我认识见过它们的人。他们是值得尊敬的人。查理·斯隆说，他的祖母在他被埋葬一年后的一个晚上看到他的祖父赶着牛回家。你知道查理·斯隆的祖母不会讲任何故事。她是一位非常虔诚的女性。一天晚上，托马斯夫人的父亲被一只被割下头、挂着一条皮的火羔羊追赶回家。他说他知道这是他兄弟的灵魂，这是一个警告，他将在九天内死去。他没有，但两年后他去世了，所以你看这是真的。鲁比·吉利斯说——‘

‘Anne Shirley,’ interrupted Marilla firmly, ‘I never want to hear you talking in this fashion again. I’ve had my doubts about that imagination of yours right along, and if this is going to be the outcome of it, I won’t countenance any such doings. You’ll go right over to Barry’s, and you’ll go through that spruce grove, just for a lesson and a warning to you. And never let me hear a word out of your head about haunted woods again.’
“安妮·雪莉，”玛丽拉坚定地打断道，“我再也不想听到你用这种方式说话了。我一直对你的想象力抱有怀疑，如果结果是这样的话，我不会支持这样的行为。你会直接去巴里家，你会穿过那片云杉林，只是为了给你一个教训和警告。再也不要让我听到你脑子里说出任何关于闹鬼森林的词了。”

Anne might plead and cry as she liked—and did, for her terror was very real. Her imagination had run away with her and she held the spruce grove in mortal dread after nightfall. But Marilla was inexorable. She marched the shrinking ghostseer down to the spring and ordered her to proceed straightaway over the bridge and into the dusky retreats of wailing ladies and headless specters beyond.
安妮可以随心所欲地恳求和哭泣——她确实这么做了，因为她的恐惧是非常真实的。她的想象力已经消失，夜幕降临后，她对云杉林抱有致命的恐惧。但玛丽拉却毫不留情。她带着不断缩小的幽灵预言家来到泉水处，命令她直接过桥，进入远处哭泣的女士和无头幽灵的昏暗隐居处。

‘Oh, Marilla, how can you be so cruel?’ sobbed Anne. ‘What would you feel like if a white thing did snatch me up and carry me off?’
“哦，玛丽拉，你怎么能这么残忍？”安妮抽泣着。 “如果有一个白色的东西把我抓起来并带走，你会有什么感觉？”

‘I’ll risk it,’ said Marilla unfeelingly. ‘You know I always mean what I say. I’ll cure you of imagining ghosts into places. March, now.’
“我愿意冒这个险。”玛丽拉冷酷地说。 ‘你知道我总是说到做到。我会治愈你想象鬼魂到某个地方的毛病。三月，现在。

Anne marched. That is, she stumbled over the bridge and went shuddering up the horrible dim path beyond. Anne never forgot that walk. Bitterly did she repent the license she had given to her imagination. The goblins of her fancy lurked in every shadow about her, reaching out their cold, fleshless hands to grasp the terrified small girl who had called them into being. A white strip of birch bark blowing up from the hollow over the brown floor of the grove made her heart stand still. The long-drawn wail of two old boughs rubbing against each other brought out the perspiration in beads on her forehead. The swoop of bats in the darkness over her was as the wings of unearthly creatures. When she reached Mr. William Bell’s field she fled across it as if pursued by an army of white things, and arrived at the Barry kitchen door so out of breath that she could hardly gasp out her request for the apron pattern. Diana was away so that she had no excuse to linger. The dreadful return journey had to be faced. Anne went back over it with shut eyes, preferring to take the risk of dashing her brains out among the boughs to that of seeing a white thing. When she finally stumbled over the log bridge she drew one long shivering breath of relief.
安妮游行。也就是说，她跌跌撞撞地跨过桥，颤抖着沿着远处可怕的昏暗小路走去。安妮永远不会忘记那次散步。她痛苦地后悔自己放纵了自己的想象力。她想象中的妖精潜伏在她周围的每一个阴影中，伸出冰冷、没有肉的手去抓住那个召唤它们的恐惧的小女孩。一条白色的白桦树皮从树林棕色地面上的空洞中吹起，让她的心停止了跳动。两根老树枝相互摩擦发出的长长的哀嚎声，衬托出了她额头上的汗珠。黑暗中，蝙蝠在她上方俯冲，就像超凡脱俗的生物的翅膀。当她到达威廉·贝尔先生的田地时，她像被一群白色的东西追赶一样穿过田地，到达巴里厨房门口时，气喘吁吁，几乎无法说出她对围裙图案的要求。戴安娜不在，所以她没有借口逗留。必须面对可怕的回程。安妮闭上眼睛重新审视它，宁愿冒把脑袋撞到树枝上的风险，也不愿看到一个白色的东西。当她终于跌跌撞撞地走上独木桥时，她颤抖着长长地松了一口气。

‘Well, so nothing caught you?’ said Marilla unsympathetically.
“这么说来，你什么也没抓到？”玛丽拉冷漠地说。

‘Oh, Mar—Marilla,’ chattered Anne, ‘I’ll b-b-be contt-tented with c-c-commonplace places after this.’
“哦，玛——玛瑞拉，”安妮喋喋不休地说，“此后我会满足于这些平凡的地方。”

Chapter XXI
第二十一章


A New Departure in Flavorings
调味品的新出发

‘Dear me, there is nothing but meetings and partings in this world, as Mrs. Lynde says,’ remarked Anne plaintively, putting her slate and books down on the kitchen table on the last day of June and wiping her red eyes with a very damp handkerchief. ‘Wasn’t it fortunate, Marilla, that I took an extra handkerchief to school today? I had a presentiment that it would be needed.’
“亲爱的，正如林德夫人所说，这个世界上除了相遇和离别之外什么也没有。”安妮哀怨地说，在六月的最后一天，她把石板和书放在厨房的桌子上，用力擦着红红的眼睛。湿手帕。 “玛丽拉，我今天多带了一块手帕去学校，这不是很幸运吗？我有预感这是需要的。

‘I never thought you were so fond of Mr. Phillips that you’d require two handkerchiefs to dry your tears just because he was going away,’ said Marilla.
“我没想到你这么喜欢菲利普斯先生，只因为他要走了，你就需要两块手帕来擦干眼泪，”玛丽拉说。

‘I don’t think I was crying because I was really so very fond of him,’ reflected Anne. ‘I just cried because all the others did. It was Ruby Gillis started it. Ruby Gillis has always declared she hated Mr. Phillips, but just as soon as he got up to make his farewell speech she burst into tears. Then all the girls began to cry, one after the other. I tried to hold out, Marilla. I tried to remember the time Mr. Phillips made me sit with Gil—with a, boy; and the time he spelled my name without an e on the blackboard; and how he said I was the worst dunce he ever saw at geometry and laughed at my spelling; and all the times he had been so horrid and sarcastic; but somehow I couldn’t, Marilla, and I just had to cry too. Jane Andrews has been talking for a month about how glad she’d be when Mr. Phillips went away and she declared she’d never shed a tear. Well, she was worse than any of us and had to borrow a handkerchief from her brother—of course the boys didn’t cry—because she hadn’t brought one of her own, not expecting to need it. Oh, Marilla, it was heartrending. Mr. Phillips made such a beautiful farewell speech beginning, ‘The time has come for us to part.’ It was very affecting. And he had tears in his eyes too, Marilla. Oh, I felt dreadfully sorry and remorseful for all the times I’d talked in school and drawn pictures of him on my slate and made fun of him and Prissy. I can tell you I wished I’d been a model pupil like Minnie Andrews. She hadn’t anything on her conscience. The girls cried all the way home from school. Carrie Sloane kept saying every few minutes, ‘The time has come for us to part,’ and that would start us off again whenever we were in any danger of cheering up. I do feel dreadfully sad, Marilla. But one can’t feel quite in the depths of despair with two months’ vacation before them, can they, Marilla? And besides, we met the new minister and his wife coming from the station. For all I was feeling so bad about Mr. Phillips going away I couldn’t help taking a little interest in a new minister, could I? His wife is very pretty. Not exactly regally lovely, of course—it wouldn’t do, I suppose, for a minister to have a regally lovely wife, because it might set a bad example. Mrs. Lynde says the minister’s wife over at Newbridge sets a very bad example because she dresses so fashionably. Our new minister’s wife was dressed in blue muslin with lovely puffed sleeves and a hat trimmed with roses. Jane Andrews said she thought puffed sleeves were too worldly for a minister’s wife, but I didn’t make any such uncharitable remark, Marilla, because I know what it is to long for puffed sleeves. Besides, she’s only been a minister’s wife for a little while, so one should make allowances, shouldn’t they? They are going to board with Mrs. Lynde until the manse is ready.’
“我不认为我哭是因为我真的非常喜欢他，”安妮反映道。 “我只是哭了，因为其他人都哭了。是鲁比·吉利斯发起的。鲁比·吉利斯一直宣称她讨厌菲利普斯先生，但当他站起来发表告别演说时，她突然泪流满面。然后所有的女孩都开始哭了，一个接一个。我试图坚持下去，玛丽拉。我努力回忆菲利普斯先生让我和吉尔坐在一起的那次——和一个男孩；还有一次他在黑板上拼写出我的名字时没有带e；他说我是他见过的最糟糕的几何笨蛋，还嘲笑我的拼写；他一直都是那么可怕、讽刺。但不知怎的，我不能，玛丽拉，我也只能哭。简·安德鲁斯一个月以来一直在谈论当菲利普斯先生离开时她会多么高兴，并且她声称自己从未流过一滴眼泪。好吧，她比我们任何人都糟糕，不得不向她哥哥借一块手帕——当然，男孩们没有哭——因为她没有带自己的手帕，没想到会需要它。哦，玛丽拉，真是令人心碎。菲利普斯先生做了一段非常优美的告别演说，“我们分手的时候到了。”非常感人。他的眼里也含着泪水，玛丽拉。哦，我对自己在学校里说话、在石板上画他的照片、取笑他和普莉西的所有时间感到非常抱歉和悔恨。我可以告诉你，我希望自己能成为像米妮·安德鲁斯那样的模范学生。她的良心上没有任何事。女孩们放学回家一路哭着。凯莉·斯隆每隔几分钟就不断地说：“我们分手的时间到了”，每当我们面临振作起来的危险时，这就会让我们重新出发。我确实感到非常悲伤，玛丽拉。 但是，还有两个月的假期，人们不能感到极度绝望，不是吗，玛丽拉？此外，我们还见到了从车站过来的新部长和他的妻子。尽管我对菲利普斯先生的离开感到非常难过，但我还是忍不住对新部长产生了一点兴趣，可以吗？他的妻子非常漂亮。当然，这并不完全是帝王般的可爱——我想，对于一个牧师来说，拥有一个帝王般可爱的妻子是不行的，因为这可能会树立一个坏榜样。林德夫人说，新桥的牧师妻子树立了一个非常坏的榜样，因为她穿得太时尚了。我们的新部长的妻子穿着蓝色平纹细布，有可爱的泡泡袖，戴着一顶饰有玫瑰的帽子。简·安德鲁斯说她认为泡泡袖对于牧师的妻子来说太世俗了，但我没有发表任何这样无情的话，玛丽拉，因为我知道渴望泡泡袖是什么感觉。再说了，她才当部长夫人不久，应该体谅一下不是吗？他们要和林德夫人一起登机，直到宅邸准备好为止。’

If Marilla, in going down to Mrs. Lynde’s that evening, was actuated by any motive save her avowed one of returning the quilting frames she had borrowed the preceding winter, it was an amiable weakness shared by most of the Avonlea people. Many a thing Mrs. Lynde had lent, sometimes never expecting to see it again, came home that night in charge of the borrowers thereof. A new minister, and moreover a minister with a wife, was a lawful object of curiosity in a quiet little country settlement where sensations were few and far between.
如果说那天晚上马里拉去林德太太家的动机除了她声称要归还去年冬天借的绗缝架之外，那么这就是大多数埃文利人共有的一个和蔼可亲的弱点。林德夫人借出的许多东西，有时根本没想到会再次见到，当天晚上就归来，由借款人负责。在一个安静的小乡村定居点里，一位新部长，而且是一位有妻子的部长，是合法的好奇对象，那里的轰动事件很少。

Old Mr. Bentley, the minister whom Anne had found lacking in imagination, had been pastor of Avonlea for eighteen years. He was a widower when he came, and a widower he remained, despite the fact that gossip regularly married him to this, that, or the other one, every year of his sojourn. In the preceding February he had resigned his charge and departed amid the regrets of his people, most of whom had the affection born of long intercourse for their good old minister in spite of his shortcomings as an orator. Since then the Avonlea church had enjoyed a variety of religious dissipation in listening to the many and various candidates and ‘supplies’ who came Sunday after Sunday to preach on trial. These stood or fell by the judgment of the fathers and mothers in Israel; but a certain small, red-haired girl who sat meekly in the corner of the old Cuthbert pew also had her opinions about them and discussed the same in full with Matthew, Marilla always declining from principle to criticize ministers in any shape or form.
老本特利先生是安妮认为缺乏想象力的牧师，他已经担任埃文利牧师十八年了。他来的时候是个鳏夫，现在仍然是个鳏夫，尽管事实上，在他逗留期间的每一年，流言经常把他与这个、那个或另一个结婚。去年二月，他在人民的遗憾中辞去了职务并离开了，尽管他作为演说家有缺点，但大多数人对他们的好老部长都怀有长期交往所产生的感情。从那时起，埃文利教会就享受着各种各样的宗教消遣，倾听着众多不同的候选人和“补给品”，他们周日又一个周日地在审判中宣讲。这些人的存亡取决于以色列父母的判断。但是，一位温顺地坐在老卡斯伯特长椅角落里的红发小女孩也对他们有自己的看法，并与马修充分讨论了同样的问题。玛丽拉总是从原则上拒绝以任何形式批评部长。

‘I don’t think Mr. Smith would have done, Matthew’ was Anne’s final summing up. ‘Mrs. Lynde says his delivery was so poor, but I think his worst fault was just like Mr. Bentley’s—he had no imagination. And Mr. Terry had too much; he let it run away with him just as I did mine in the matter of the Haunted Wood. Besides, Mrs. Lynde says his theology wasn’t sound. Mr. Gresham was a very good man and a very religious man, but he told too many funny stories and made the people laugh in church; he was undignified, and you must have some dignity about a minister, mustn’t you, Matthew? I thought Mr. Marshall was decidedly attractive; but Mrs. Lynde says he isn’t married, or even engaged, because she made special inquiries about him, and she says it would never do to have a young unmarried minister in Avonlea, because he might marry in the congregation and that would make trouble. Mrs. Lynde is a very farseeing woman, isn’t she, Matthew? I’m very glad they’ve called Mr. Allan. I liked him because his sermon was interesting and he prayed as if he meant it and not just as if he did it because he was in the habit of it. Mrs. Lynde says he isn’t perfect, but she says she supposes we couldn’t expect a perfect minister for seven hundred and fifty dollars a year, and anyhow his theology is sound because she questioned him thoroughly on all the points of doctrine. And she knows his wife’s people and they are most respectable and the women are all good housekeepers. Mrs. Lynde says that sound doctrine in the man and good housekeeping in the woman make an ideal combination for a minister’s family.’
“我认为史密斯先生不会这么做，马修”是安妮的最后总结。 '太太。林德说他的表达很差，但我认为他最大的错误就像本特利先生一样——他没有想象力。特里先生拥有的太多了；他让它随他而去，就像我在鬼林事件中所做的那样。此外，林德夫人说他的神学不健全。格雷沙姆先生是一个非常好的人，也是一个非常虔诚的人，但是他讲了太多有趣的故事，让教堂里的人们开怀大笑；他没有尊严，作为一名牧师，你必须有一些尊严，不是吗，马修？我认为马歇尔先生绝对是有魅力的。但林德夫人说他还没有结婚，甚至没有订婚，因为她对他进行了特别询问，她说埃文利永远不会有一位年轻的未婚牧师，因为他可能会在会众中结婚，这会让麻烦。林德夫人是一位非常有远见的女人，不是吗，马修？我很高兴他们给艾伦先生打电话。我喜欢他，因为他的布道很有趣，他祈祷时就好像他是认真的，而不是因为他习惯了才这样做。林德夫人说他并不完美，但她说她认为我们不能指望每年七百五十美元就能找到一位完美的牧师，无论如何，他的神学是正确的，因为她对所有教义要点都进行了彻底的质疑。她认识他妻子的人，他们是最值得尊敬的，女人们都是好管家。林德夫人说，男人健全的教义和女人良好的家务是牧师家庭的理想组合。

The new minister and his wife were a young, pleasant-faced couple, still on their honeymoon, and full of all good and beautiful enthusiasms for their chosen lifework. Avonlea opened its heart to them from the start. Old and young liked the frank, cheerful young man with his high ideals, and the bright, gentle little lady who assumed the mistress-ship of the manse. With Mrs. Allan Anne fell promptly and wholeheartedly in love. She had discovered another kindred spirit.
新牧师和他的妻子是一对年轻、面容和蔼的夫妇，他们还在度蜜月，对他们所选择的毕生工作充满了美好而美好的热情。 Avonlea 从一开始就向他们敞开心扉。老老少少都喜欢这位坦率、开朗、有远大理想的年轻人，也喜欢这位开朗、温柔、当家作主的小女人。安妮很快就全心全意地爱上了艾伦夫人。她发现了另一个志趣相投的人。

‘Mrs. Allan is perfectly lovely,’ she announced one Sunday afternoon. ‘She’s taken our class and she’s a splendid teacher. She said right away she didn’t think it was fair for the teacher to ask all the questions, and you know, Marilla, that is exactly what I’ve always thought. She said we could ask her any question we liked and I asked ever so many. I’m good at asking questions, Marilla.’
'太太。艾伦非常可爱，”一个周日下午她宣布。 “她上过我们的课，她是一位出色的老师。她立即​​表示，她认为老师提出所有问题是不公平的，你知道，玛丽拉，这正是我一直以来的想法。她说我们可以问她任何我们喜欢的问题，我问了很多问题。我很擅长提问，玛丽拉。”

‘I believe you’ was Marilla’s emphatic comment.
“我相信你”是玛丽拉强调的评论。

‘Nobody else asked any except Ruby Gillis, and she asked if there was to be a Sunday-school picnic this summer. I didn’t think that was a very proper question to ask because it hadn’t any connection with the lesson—the lesson was about Daniel in the lions’ den—but Mrs. Allan just smiled and said she thought there would be. Mrs. Allan has a lovely smile; she has such EXQUISITE dimples in her cheeks. I wish I had dimples in my cheeks, Marilla. I’m not half so skinny as I was when I came here, but I have no dimples yet. If I had perhaps I could influence people for good. Mrs. Allan said we ought always to try to influence other people for good. She talked so nice about everything. I never knew before that religion was such a cheerful thing. I always thought it was kind of melancholy, but Mrs. Allan’s isn’t, and I’d like to be a Christian if I could be one like her. I wouldn’t want to be one like Mr. Superintendent Bell.’
“除了鲁比·吉利斯，没有其他人问过这个问题，她问今年夏天主日学校是否有野餐。我认为问这个问题不太合适，因为它与课程没有任何关系——课程是关于狮子窝里的丹尼尔——但艾伦夫人只是微笑着说她认为会有关系。艾伦夫人有着可爱的微笑；她的脸颊上有如此精致的酒窝。我希望我的脸颊上有酒窝，玛丽拉。我现在已经没有刚来的时候瘦一半了，但还没有酒窝。如果我有的话，也许我可以永远影响人们。艾伦夫人说，我们应该始终努力影响他人，使其永远向善。她对一切都谈得那么好。我以前从来不知道宗教是这么令人愉快的事情。我一直认为这是一种忧郁，但艾伦夫人的不是，如果我能像她一样，我想成为一名基督徒。我不想成为贝尔警司先生那样的人。

‘It’s very naughty of you to speak so about Mr. Bell,’ said Marilla severely. ‘Mr. Bell is a real good man.’
“你这样谈论贝尔先生，真是太顽皮了。”玛丽拉严肃地说。 '先生。贝尔是一个真正的好人。”

‘Oh, of course he’s good,’ agreed Anne, ‘but he doesn’t seem to get any comfort out of it. If I could be good I’d dance and sing all day because I was glad of it. I suppose Mrs. Allan is too old to dance and sing and of course it wouldn’t be dignified in a minister’s wife. But I can just feel she’s glad she’s a Christian and that she’d be one even if she could get to heaven without it.’
“哦，他当然很好，”安妮同意道，“但他似乎并没有从中得到任何安慰。如果我能表现得好的话，我会整天唱歌跳舞，因为我很高兴。我想艾伦夫人已经太老了，无法跳舞和唱歌，当然，如果是牧师的妻子，那就不够尊严了。但我能感觉到她很高兴自己是一名基督徒，即使没有基督徒也能进天堂，她也会成为一名基督徒。”

‘I suppose we must have Mr. and Mrs. Allan up to tea someday soon,’ said Marilla reflectively. ‘They’ve been most everywhere but here. Let me see. Next Wednesday would be a good time to have them. But don’t say a word to Matthew about it, for if he knew they were coming he’d find some excuse to be away that day. He’d got so used to Mr. Bentley he didn’t mind him, but he’s going to find it hard to get acquainted with a new minister, and a new minister’s wife will frighten him to death.’
“我想我们很快就会邀请艾伦先生和夫人一起喝茶。”玛丽拉若有所思地说。 “除了这里，他们几乎无处不在。让我看看。下周三是接待他们的好时机。但不要对马修说这件事，因为如果他知道他们要来，他那天就会找借口离开。他已经习惯了本特利先生，不介意他，但他会发现很难熟悉一个新部长，而且新部长的妻子会把他吓死的。

‘I’ll be as secret as the dead,’ assured Anne. ‘But oh, Marilla, will you let me make a cake for the occasion? I’d love to do something for Mrs. Allan, and you know I can make a pretty good cake by this time.’
“我会像死人一样保密，”安妮保证道。 “但是哦，玛丽拉，你能让我为这个场合做一个蛋糕吗？我很想为艾伦夫人做点什么，你知道我现在可以做一个非常好的蛋糕了。

‘You can make a layer cake,’ promised Marilla.
“你可以做一个夹心蛋糕，”玛丽拉答应道。

Monday and Tuesday great preparations went on at Green Gables. Having the minister and his wife to tea was a serious and important undertaking, and Marilla was determined not to be eclipsed by any of the Avonlea housekeepers. Anne was wild with excitement and delight. She talked it all over with Diana Tuesday night in the twilight, as they sat on the big red stones by the Dryad’s Bubble and made rainbows in the water with little twigs dipped in fir balsam.
周一和周二，绿山墙球场进行了精彩的准备工作。请部长和他的妻子喝茶是一项严肃而重要的任务，玛丽拉决心不让任何埃文利管家黯然失色。安妮兴奋又高兴。周二晚上，在暮色中，她和戴安娜谈了这一切，当时他们坐在树妖泡泡旁的红色大石头上，用浸有冷杉香脂的小树枝在水中制造出彩虹。

‘Everything is ready, Diana, except my cake which I’m to make in the morning, and the baking-powder biscuits which Marilla will make just before teatime. I assure you, Diana, that Marilla and I have had a busy two days of it. It’s such a responsibility having a minister’s family to tea. I never went through such an experience before. You should just see our pantry. It’s a sight to behold. We’re going to have jellied chicken and cold tongue. We’re to have two kinds of jelly, red and yellow, and whipped cream and lemon pie, and cherry pie, and three kinds of cookies, and fruit cake, and Marilla’s famous yellow plum preserves that she keeps especially for ministers, and pound cake and layer cake, and biscuits as aforesaid; and new bread and old both, in case the minister is dyspeptic and can’t eat new. Mrs. Lynde says ministers are dyspeptic, but I don’t think Mr. Allan has been a minister long enough for it to have had a bad effect on him. I just grow cold when I think of my layer cake. Oh, Diana, what if it shouldn’t be good! I dreamed last night that I was chased all around by a fearful goblin with a big layer cake for a head.’
“一切都准备好了，戴安娜，除了我早上要做的蛋糕，以及玛丽拉在下午茶时间之前要做的泡打粉饼干。我向你保证，戴安娜，我和玛丽拉度过了忙碌的两天。让牧师的家人喝茶真是一种责任。我以前从未经历过这样的经历。你应该看看我们的食品储藏室。这是一个值得一看的景象。我们要吃冻鸡和冷舌。我们要吃两种果冻，红色和黄色，还有生奶油、柠檬派、樱桃派、三种饼干、水果蛋糕，还有玛丽拉专门为部长们保留的著名的黄李子蜜饯，还有一磅如上所述的蛋糕和夹心蛋糕以及饼干；新面包和旧面包都要有，以防大臣消化不良，不能吃新面包。林德夫人说部长们消化不良，但我认为艾伦先生担任部长的时间还不够长，不会对他产生不良影响。当我想到我的夹心蛋糕时，我就感到寒冷。哦，戴安娜，如果情况不好怎么办！我昨晚梦见我被一个头戴大蛋糕的可怕妖精到处追赶。

‘It’ll be good, all right,’ assured Diana, who was a very comfortable sort of friend. ‘I’m sure that piece of the one you made that we had for lunch in Idlewild two weeks ago was perfectly elegant.’
“一切都会好起来的，好吧，”戴安娜保证道，她是一位非常舒服的朋友。 “我确信两周前我们在艾德维尔德吃午餐时你做的那件非常优雅。”

‘Yes; but cakes have such a terrible habit of turning out bad just when you especially want them to be good,’ sighed Anne, setting a particularly well-balsamed twig afloat. ‘However, I suppose I shall just have to trust to Providence and be careful to put in the flour. Oh, look, Diana, what a lovely rainbow! Do you suppose the dryad will come out after we go away and take it for a scarf?’
'是的;但蛋糕有一个可怕的习惯，当你特别希望它们好吃的时候，它就会变质。”安妮叹了口气，把一根特别香脂的树枝浮在水面上。 “不过，我想我只能相信上帝，小心地放入面粉。哦，戴安娜，你看，多么可爱的彩虹啊！你认为我们走后树妖会出来把它当作围巾吗？

‘You know there is no such thing as a dryad,’ said Diana. Diana’s mother had found out about the Haunted Wood and had been decidedly angry over it. As a result Diana had abstained from any further imitative flights of imagination and did not think it prudent to cultivate a spirit of belief even in harmless dryads.
“你知道没有树精这种东西，”黛安娜说。戴安娜的母亲发现了闹鬼森​​林的事，并且对此非常生气。结果，戴安娜放弃了任何进一步的模仿想象，并且认为即使在无害的树精中培养信仰精神也是不明智的。

‘But it’s so easy to imagine there is,’ said Anne. ‘Every night before I go to bed, I look out of my window and wonder if the dryad is really sitting here, combing her locks with the spring for a mirror. Sometimes I look for her footprints in the dew in the morning. Oh, Diana, don’t give up your faith in the dryad!’
“但很容易想象有这样的东西，”安妮说。 “每天晚上睡觉前，我都会向窗外望去，想知道树妖是否真的坐在这里，用弹簧梳理她的头发作为镜子。有时我会在清晨的露水中寻找她的脚印。哦，戴安娜，不要放弃对树妖的信心！

Wednesday morning came. Anne got up at sunrise because she was too excited to sleep. She had caught a severe cold in the head by reason of her dabbling in the spring on the preceding evening; but nothing short of absolute pneumonia could have quenched her interest in culinary matters that morning. After breakfast she proceeded to make her cake. When she finally shut the oven door upon it she drew a long breath.
星期三早上到了。安妮在日出时起床，因为她太兴奋而睡不着。她因前一天晚上泡泉水而得了重感冒。但那天早上，除了绝对的肺炎之外，没有什么能够浇灭她对烹饪的兴趣。早餐后，她开始做蛋糕。当她最终关上烤箱门时，她长长地吸了一口气。

‘I’m sure I haven’t forgotten anything this time, Marilla. But do you think it will rise? Just suppose perhaps the baking powder isn’t good? I used it out of the new can. And Mrs. Lynde says you can never be sure of getting good baking powder nowadays when everything is so adulterated. Mrs. Lynde says the Government ought to take the matter up, but she says we’ll never see the day when a Tory Government will do it. Marilla, what if that cake doesn’t rise?’
“我确信这次我没有忘记任何事情，玛丽拉。但你认为它会上涨吗？假设发酵粉可能不好？我用的是新罐子里的。林德夫人说，现在所有东西都掺假了，你永远无法保证买到好的发酵粉。林德夫人说政府应该解决这个问题，但她说我们永远看不到保守党政府会这样做的那一天。玛丽拉，如果蛋糕不升起来怎么办？

‘We’ll have plenty without it’ was Marilla’s unimpassioned way of looking at the subject.
“没有它我们也会有很多”，马里拉冷静地看待这个话题。

The cake did rise, however, and came out of the oven as light and feathery as golden foam. Anne, flushed with delight, clapped it together with layers of ruby jelly and, in imagination, saw Mrs. Allan eating it and possibly asking for another piece!
然而，蛋糕确实膨胀了，从烤箱里出来时，它像金色的泡沫一样轻盈、羽毛状。安妮高兴得满脸通红，她把它和一层层的红宝石果冻拍在一起，在想象中，她看到艾伦太太吃了它，可能还要求再吃一块！

‘You’ll be using the best tea set, of course, Marilla,’ she said. ‘Can I fix the table with ferns and wild roses?’
“当然，你会使用最好的茶具，玛丽拉，”她说。 “我可以用蕨类植物和野玫瑰来装饰桌子吗？”

‘I think that’s all nonsense,’ sniffed Marilla. ‘In my opinion it’s the eatables that matter and not flummery decorations.’
“我认为这都是无稽之谈，”玛丽拉嗤之以鼻。 “在我看来，重要的是可食用的东西，而不是廉价的装饰品。”

‘Mrs. Barry had HER table decorated,’ said Anne, who was not entirely guiltless of the wisdom of the serpent, ‘and the minister paid her an elegant compliment. He said it was a feast for the eye as well as the palate.’
'太太。巴里装饰了她的桌子，”安妮说，她对蛇的智慧并非完全无罪，“牧师对她进行了优雅的赞美。他说这是一场视觉和味觉的盛宴。

‘Well, do as you like,’ said Marilla, who was quite determined not to be surpassed by Mrs. Barry or anybody else. ‘Only mind you leave enough room for the dishes and the food.’
“好吧，你想怎么办就怎么办吧，”玛丽拉说，她决心不让巴里夫人或其他任何人超越。 “请注意，为餐具和食物留出足够的空间。”

Anne laid herself out to decorate in a manner and after a fashion that should leave Mrs. Barry’s nowhere. Having abundance of roses and ferns and a very artistic taste of her own, she made that tea table such a thing of beauty that when the minister and his wife sat down to it they exclaimed in chorus over it loveliness.
安妮以一种不会让巴里夫人无处可去的方式和时尚来装饰自己。她拥有丰富的玫瑰和蕨类植物，加上她自己的艺术品味，她把那张茶几做得如此美丽，以至于当牧师和他的妻子坐下来时，他们齐声惊叹它的可爱。

‘It’s Anne’s doings,’ said Marilla, grimly just; and Anne felt that Mrs. Allan’s approving smile was almost too much happiness for this world.
“这是安妮干的，”玛丽拉严肃地说。安妮觉得艾伦夫人赞许的微笑对于这个世界来说简直是太幸福了。

Matthew was there, having been inveigled into the party only goodness and Anne knew how. He had been in such a state of shyness and nervousness that Marilla had given him up in despair, but Anne took him in hand so successfully that he now sat at the table in his best clothes and white collar and talked to the minister not uninterestingly. He never said a word to Mrs. Allan, but that perhaps was not to be expected.
马修也在场，他只是被善意地骗进了聚会，而安妮也知道是怎么回事。他一直处于如此害羞和紧张的状态，以至于玛丽拉绝望地放弃了他，但安妮成功地抓住了他，以至于他现在穿着最好的衣服和白领坐在桌旁，与部长交谈并不无趣。他从未对艾伦夫人说过一句话，但这也许是出乎意料的。

All went merry as a marriage bell until Anne’s layer cake was passed. Mrs. Allan, having already been helped to a bewildering variety, declined it. But Marilla, seeing the disappointment on Anne’s face, said smilingly:
一切都像结婚的钟声一样欢乐，直到安妮的夹心蛋糕被递过去。艾伦夫人已经被帮助做了一些令人眼花缭乱的事情，所以拒绝了。但玛丽拉看到安妮脸上的失望，微笑道：

‘Oh, you must take a piece of this, Mrs. Allan. Anne made it on purpose for you.’
“噢，你一定要尝尝这个，艾伦夫人。安妮是故意为你做的。”

‘In that case I must sample it,’ laughed Mrs. Allan, helping herself to a plump triangle, as did also the minister and Marilla.
“既然如此，我就必须尝尝。”艾伦夫人笑道，一边给自己拿了一个丰满的三角形，部长和玛丽拉也是如此。

Mrs. Allan took a mouthful of hers and a most peculiar expression crossed her face; not a word did she say, however, but steadily ate away at it. Marilla saw the expression and hastened to taste the cake.
艾伦太太抿了一口，脸上浮现出一种极为奇特的表情。然而，她什么也没说，只是慢慢地吃下去。玛丽拉看到这表情，赶紧尝了尝蛋糕。

‘Anne Shirley!’ she exclaimed, ‘what on earth did you put into that cake?’
“安妮·雪莉！”她惊呼道，“你到底在蛋糕里放了什么？”

‘Nothing but what the recipe said, Marilla,’ cried Anne with a look of anguish. ‘Oh, isn’t it all right?’
“除了食谱上说的，什么都没有，玛丽拉，”安妮一脸痛苦地喊道。 “噢，这还好吗？”

‘All right! It’s simply horrible. Mr. Allan, don’t try to eat it. Anne, taste it yourself. What flavoring did you use?’
'好的！这太可怕了。艾伦先生，别想吃它。安妮，你自己尝尝吧。你用了什么调味料？

‘Vanilla,’ said Anne, her face scarlet with mortification after tasting the cake. ‘Only vanilla. Oh, Marilla, it must have been the baking powder. I had my suspicions of that bak—‘
“香草味的。”安妮尝完蛋糕后，脸色涨得通红。 “只有香草。”哦，玛丽拉，一定是发酵粉的问题。我对那个面包有怀疑——”

‘Baking powder fiddlesticks! Go and bring me the bottle of vanilla you used.’
‘发酵粉摆弄！去把你用过的那瓶香草拿来给我。”

Anne fled to the pantry and returned with a small bottle partially filled with a brown liquid and labeled yellowly, ‘Best Vanilla.’
安妮逃到食品储藏室，回来时拿着一个小瓶子，里面装着部分棕色液体，上面贴着黄色标签，“最好的香草”。

Marilla took it, uncorked it, smelled it.
玛丽拉接过它，打开瓶塞，闻了闻。

‘Mercy on us, Anne, you’ve flavored that cake with ANODYNE LINIMENT. I broke the liniment bottle last week and poured what was left into an old empty vanilla bottle. I suppose it’s partly my fault—I should have warned you—but for pity’s sake why couldn’t you have smelled it?’
“怜悯我们，安妮，你用 ANODYNE 搽剂给蛋糕调味。上周我打破了搽剂瓶，把剩下的东西倒进了一个旧的空香草瓶里。我想这部分是我的错——我应该警告你——但出于怜悯，你为什么不能闻到它的味道呢？

Anne dissolved into tears under this double disgrace.
安妮在这双重耻辱下泪流满面。

‘I couldn’t—I had such a cold!’ and with this she fairly fled to the gable chamber, where she cast herself on the bed and wept as one who refuses to be comforted.
“我不能——我感冒了！”说完，她就逃到了山墙房间里，倒在床上哭了起来，就像一个不肯被安慰的人。

Presently a light step sounded on the stairs and somebody entered the room.
不一会儿，楼梯上响起了轻微的脚步声，有人走进了房间。

‘Oh, Marilla,’ sobbed Anne, without looking up, ‘I’m disgraced forever. I shall never be able to live this down. It will get out—things always do get out in Avonlea. Diana will ask me how my cake turned out and I shall have to tell her the truth. I shall always be pointed at as the girl who flavored a cake with anodyne liniment. Gil—the boys in school will never get over laughing at it. Oh, Marilla, if you have a spark of Christian pity don’t tell me that I must go down and wash the dishes after this. I’ll wash them when the minister and his wife are gone, but I cannot ever look Mrs. Allan in the face again. Perhaps she’ll think I tried to poison her. Mrs. Lynde says she knows an orphan girl who tried to poison her benefactor. But the liniment isn’t poisonous. It’s meant to be taken internally—although not in cakes. Won’t you tell Mrs. Allan so, Marilla?’
“噢，玛丽拉，”安妮头也不抬地抽泣着，“我永远蒙羞了。”我永远无法忍受这一切。事情总会传出去的——在埃文利，事情总是会传出去。戴安娜会问我蛋糕结果如何，我必须告诉她真相。我将永远被指为用止痛搽剂给蛋糕调味的女孩。吉尔——学校里的男孩子们永远都笑不出来。哦，玛丽拉，如果你有一丝基督徒的怜悯之心，请不要告诉我，我必须在这之后下去洗碗。等牧师和他的妻子走后，我会洗它们，但我再也不能直视艾伦夫人的脸了。也许她会认为我试图毒害她。林德夫人说她认识一个孤女，她试图毒害她的恩人。但搽剂没有毒。它应该是内服的——尽管不是在蛋糕里。你不想告诉艾伦夫人吗，玛丽拉？

‘Suppose you jump up and tell her so yourself,’ said a merry voice.
“假设你跳起来亲自告诉她，”一个快乐的声音说道。

Anne flew up, to find Mrs. Allan standing by her bed, surveying her with laughing eyes.
安妮飞了起来，发现艾伦夫人站在她的床边，用笑着的眼睛打量着她。

‘My dear little girl, you musn’t cry like this,’ she said, genuinely disturbed by Anne’s tragic face. ‘Why, it’s all just a funny mistake that anybody might make.’
“我亲爱的小女孩，你不可以这样哭，”她说，对安妮悲惨的脸感到真正的不安。 “为什么，这只是任何人都可能犯的一个有趣的错误。”

‘Oh, no, it takes me to make such a mistake,’ said Anne forlornly. ‘And I wanted to have that cake so nice for you, Mrs. Allan.’
“噢，不，我才犯了这样的错误。”安妮悲凉地说。 “我想让那块蛋糕送给你，艾伦太太。”

‘Yes, I know, dear. And I assure you I appreciate your kindness and thoughtfulness just as much as if it had turned out all right. Now, you mustn’t cry any more, but come down with me and show me your flower garden. Miss Cuthbert tells me you have a little plot all your own. I want to see it, for I’m very much interested in flowers.’
“是的，我知道，亲爱的。我向你保证，我非常感谢你的善意和体贴，就像结果一切顺利一样。现在，你不能再哭了，跟我一起下来，带我看看你的花园。卡斯伯特小姐告诉我你有一个属于你自己的小阴谋。我想看看，因为我对花很感兴趣。”

Anne permitted herself to be led down and comforted, reflecting that it was really providential that Mrs. Allan was a kindred spirit. Nothing more was said about the liniment cake, and when the guests went away Anne found that she had enjoyed the evening more than could have been expected, considering that terrible incident. Nevertheless, she sighed deeply.
安妮允许自己被引导下去并得到安慰，她反思说，艾伦夫人志同道合真是天意。关于搽剂蛋糕，没有再多说什么，当客人们离开时，安妮发现，考虑到那次可怕的事件，她比预期的更享受这个夜晚。尽管如此，她还是深深地叹了口气。

‘Marilla, isn’t it nice to think that tomorrow is a new day with no mistakes in it yet?’
“玛丽拉，想到明天又是新的一天，还没有犯任何错误，这不是很好吗？”

‘I’ll warrant you’ll make plenty in it,’ said Marilla. ‘I never saw your beat for making mistakes, Anne.’
“我保证你会赚很多，”玛丽拉说。 “我从来没见过你因犯错误而受到责备，安妮。”

‘Yes, and well I know it,’ admitted Anne mournfully. ‘But have you ever noticed one encouraging thing about me, Marilla? I never make the same mistake twice.’
“是的，我知道，”安妮悲伤地承认。 “但是你有没有注意到我身上一件令人鼓舞的事情，玛丽拉？我从来不会犯两次同样的错误。

‘I don’t know as that’s much benefit when you’re always making new ones.’
“我不知道，因为当你总是在制作新的东西时，这有多大好处。”

‘Oh, don’t you see, Marilla? There must be a limit to the mistakes one person can make, and when I get to the end of them, then I’ll be through with them. That’s a very comforting thought.’
“哦，你没看到吗，玛丽拉？一个人犯的错误一定是有限度的，当我犯完错误之后，我就不再犯了。这是一个非常令人欣慰的想法。

‘Well, you’d better go and give that cake to the pigs,’ said Marilla. ‘It isn’t fit for any human to eat, not even Jerry Boute.’
“好吧，你最好去把蛋糕给猪吃，”玛丽拉说。 “它不适合任何人食用，甚至杰里·布特也不适合。”

Chapter XXII
第二十二章


Anne is Invited Out to Tea
安妮被邀请去喝茶

‘And what are your eyes popping out of your head about. Now?’ asked Marilla, when Anne had just come in from a run to the post office. ‘Have you discovered another kindred spirit?’ Excitement hung around Anne like a garment, shone in her eyes, kindled in every feature. She had come dancing up the lane, like a wind-blown sprite, through the mellow sunshine and lazy shadows of the August evening.
“你的眼睛从你的脑袋里跳出来是在想什么呢？”现在？”安妮刚从邮局跑步回来，玛丽拉问道。 “你发现了另一个志同道合的人吗？”兴奋像一件衣服一样笼罩着安妮，在她的眼睛里闪闪发光，每一个特征都被点燃。她像一个被风吹动的精灵，穿过八月傍晚柔和的阳光和慵懒的阴影，沿着小巷翩翩起舞。

‘No, Marilla, but oh, what do you think? I am invited to tea at the manse tomorrow afternoon! Mrs. Allan left the letter for me at the post office. Just look at it, Marilla. ‘Miss Anne Shirley, Green Gables.’ That is the first time I was ever called ‘Miss.’ Such a thrill as it gave me! I shall cherish it forever among my choicest treasures.’
“不，玛丽拉，但是哦，你觉得怎么样？明天下午我被邀请去庄园喝茶！艾伦夫人把这封信留在了邮局给我。看看它，玛丽拉。 “绿山墙的安妮·雪莉小姐。”这是我第一次被称为“小姐”。这让我非常兴奋！我将把它永远珍藏在我最珍贵的珍宝中。

‘Mrs. Allan told me she meant to have all the members of her Sunday-school class to tea in turn,’ said Marilla, regarding the wonderful event very coolly. ‘You needn’t get in such a fever over it. Do learn to take things calmly, child.’
'太太。艾伦告诉我，她打算让主日学校班级的所有成员轮流喝茶。”玛丽拉非常冷静地说道。 “你不必为此如此狂热。一定要学会冷静地对待事情，孩子。”

For Anne to take things calmly would have been to change her nature. All ‘spirit and fire and dew,’ as she was, the pleasures and pains of life came to her with trebled intensity. Marilla felt this and was vaguely troubled over it, realizing that the ups and downs of existence would probably bear hardly on this impulsive soul and not sufficiently understanding that the equally great capacity for delight might more than compensate. Therefore Marilla conceived it to be her duty to drill Anne into a tranquil uniformity of disposition as impossible and alien to her as to a dancing sunbeam in one of the brook shallows. She did not make much headway, as she sorrowfully admitted to herself. The downfall of some dear hope or plan plunged Anne into ‘deeps of affliction.’ The fulfillment thereof exalted her to dizzy realms of delight. Marilla had almost begun to despair of ever fashioning this waif of the world into her model little girl of demure manners and prim deportment. Neither would she have believed that she really liked Anne much better as she was.
对安妮来说，冷静地对待事情就等于改变了她的本性。所有的“精神、火和露水”，就像她一样，生活中的快乐和痛苦以三倍的强度降临到她身上。玛丽拉感觉到了这一点，并隐隐约约地感到困扰，意识到生活的起起落落可能对这个冲动的灵魂几乎没有什么影响，但她没有充分理解同样强大的快乐能力可能足以弥补这一点。因此，玛丽拉认为，她有责任让安妮养成一种平静、统一的性格，这对她来说是不可能的，也是陌生的，就像小溪浅滩上舞动的阳光一样。正如她悲伤地向自己承认的那样，她并没有取得多大进展。一些美好的希望或计划的破灭使安妮陷入了“痛苦的深渊”。它的实现使她升入了令人眩晕的喜悦境界。玛丽拉几乎开始对把这个世界上的流浪儿塑造成举止端庄、举止拘谨的模范小女孩感到绝望。她也不会相信她真的更喜欢安妮。

Anne went to bed that night speechless with misery because Matthew had said the wind was round northeast and he feared it would be a rainy day tomorrow. The rustle of the poplar leaves about the house worried her, it sounded so like pattering raindrops, and the full, faraway roar of the gulf, to which she listened delightedly at other times, loving its strange, sonorous, haunting rhythm, now seemed like a prophecy of storm and disaster to a small maiden who particularly wanted a fine day. Anne thought that the morning would never come.
那天晚上，安妮痛苦地上床睡觉，因为马修说风是东北风，他担心明天会下雨。房子周围白杨树叶的沙沙声让她担心，听起来就像雨滴的啪嗒啪嗒声，还有海湾充满的、遥远的咆哮声，她以前很高兴地听着，喜欢它奇怪的、铿锵的、令人难以忘怀的节奏，现在听起来就像是对一位特别想要美好一天的小姑娘来说，风暴和灾难的预言。安妮认为早晨永远不会到来。

But all things have an end, even nights before the day on which you are invited to take tea at the manse. The morning, in spite of Matthew’s predictions, was fine and Anne’s spirits soared to their highest. ‘Oh, Marilla, there is something in me today that makes me just love everybody I see,’ she exclaimed as she washed the breakfast dishes. ‘You don’t know how good I feel! Wouldn’t it be nice if it could last? I believe I could be a model child if I were just invited out to tea every day. But oh, Marilla, it’s a solemn occasion too. I feel so anxious. What if I shouldn’t behave properly? You know I never had tea at a manse before, and I’m not sure that I know all the rules of etiquette, although I’ve been studying the rules given in the Etiquette Department of the Family Herald ever since I came here. I’m so afraid I’ll do something silly or forget to do something I should do. Would it be good manners to take a second helping of anything if you wanted to VERY much?’
但万事都有结束的时候，即使是在你被邀请去庄园喝茶的前一天晚上也是如此。尽管马修预言，早上天气晴朗，安妮的精神也达到了最高点。 “哦，玛丽拉，今天我身上有一种东西让我爱我所见到的每一个人，”她在洗早餐盘子时喊道。 ‘你不知道我的感觉有多好！如果能持续下去岂不是很好？我相信如果我每天都被邀请出去喝茶，我可以成为一个模范儿童。但是哦，玛丽拉，这也是一个庄严的时刻。我感到很焦虑。如果我行为不当怎么办？你知道我从来没有在公馆喝过茶，我也不确定我是否了解所有的礼仪规则，虽然我自从来到这里之后就一直在研究《家传》礼仪部给出的规则。我很害怕我会做一些愚蠢的事情或者忘记做一些我应该做的事情。如果你非常想要再拿一份东西，是否有礼貌？

‘The trouble with you, Anne, is that you’re thinking too much about yourself. You should just think of Mrs. Allan and what would be nicest and most agreeable to her,’ said Marilla, hitting for once in her life on a very sound and pithy piece of advice. Anne instantly realized this.
“安妮，你的问题在于你想得太多了。”你应该只想到艾伦夫人，想想什么对她来说是最好的、最令人愉快的，”玛丽拉说，这是她一生中第一次提出了一个非常合理和简洁的建议。安妮立刻意识到了这一点。

‘You are right, Marilla. I’ll try not to think about myself at all.’
“你是对的，玛丽拉。我会尽量不去想自己。

Anne evidently got through her visit without any serious breach of ‘etiquette,’ for she came home through the twilight, under a great, high-sprung sky gloried over with trails of saffron and rosy cloud, in a beatified state of mind and told Marilla all about it happily, sitting on the big red-sandstone slab at the kitchen door with her tired curly head in Marilla’s gingham lap.
安妮显然没有严重违反“礼节”，因为她在暮色中回到家，在一片灿烂的、高耸的天空下，在藏红花和玫瑰色的云彩的映衬下，她怀着一种幸福的心态告诉了玛丽拉一切都很幸福，她坐在厨房门口的红砂岩大板上，疲倦的卷发头枕在玛丽拉的格子花布腿上。

A cool wind was blowing down over the long harvest fields from the rims of firry western hills and whistling through the poplars. One clear star hung over the orchard and the fireflies were flitting over in Lover’s Lane, in and out among the ferns and rustling boughs. Anne watched them as she talked and somehow felt that wind and stars and fireflies were all tangled up together into something unutterably sweet and enchanting.
一阵凉爽的风从西部冷杉山的边缘吹过长长的收割田，呼啸着穿过白杨树。一颗清澈的星星悬挂在果园上空，萤火虫在情人巷飞过，在蕨类植物和沙沙作响的树枝间穿梭。安妮看着他们说话，不知怎的，感觉风、星星、萤火虫都纠缠在一起，组成了一种说不出的甜蜜和迷人。

‘Oh, Marilla, I’ve had a most FASCINATING time. I feel that I have not lived in vain and I shall always feel like that even if I should never be invited to tea at a manse again. When I got there Mrs. Allan met me at the door. She was dressed in the sweetest dress of pale-pink organdy, with dozens of frills and elbow sleeves, and she looked just like a seraph. I really think I’d like to be a minister’s wife when I grow up, Marilla. A minister mightn’t mind my red hair because he wouldn’t be thinking of such worldly things. But then of course one would have to be naturally good and I’ll never be that, so I suppose there’s no use in thinking about it. Some people are naturally good, you know, and others are not. I’m one of the others. Mrs. Lynde says I’m full of original sin. No matter how hard I try to be good I can never make such a success of it as those who are naturally good. It’s a good deal like geometry, I expect. But don’t you think the trying so hard ought to count for something? Mrs. Allan is one of the naturally good people. I love her passionately. You know there are some people, like Matthew and Mrs. Allan that you can love right off without any trouble. And there are others, like Mrs. Lynde, that you have to try very hard to love. You know you OUGHT to love them because they know so much and are such active workers in the church, but you have to keep reminding yourself of it all the time or else you forget. There was another little girl at the manse to tea, from the White Sands Sunday school. Her name was Laurette Bradley, and she was a very nice little girl. Not exactly a kindred spirit, you know, but still very nice. We had an elegant tea, and I think I kept all the rules of etiquette pretty well. After tea Mrs. Allan played and sang and she got Lauretta and me to sing too. Mrs. Allan says I have a good voice and she says I must sing in the Sunday-school choir after this. You can’t think how I was thrilled at the mere thought. I’ve longed so to sing in the Sunday-school choir, as Diana does, but I feared it was an honor I could never aspire to. Lauretta had to go home early because there is a big concert in the White Sands Hotel tonight and her sister is to recite at it. Lauretta says that the Americans at the hotel give a concert every fortnight in aid of the Charlottetown hospital, and they ask lots of the White Sands people to recite. Lauretta said she expected to be asked herself someday. I just gazed at her in awe. After she had gone Mrs. Allan and I had a heart-to-heart talk. I told her everything—about Mrs. Thomas and the twins and Katie Maurice and Violetta and coming to Green Gables and my troubles over geometry. And would you believe it, Marilla? Mrs. Allan told me she was a dunce at geometry too. You don’t know how that encouraged me. Mrs. Lynde came to the manse just before I left, and what do you think, Marilla? The trustees have hired a new teacher and it’s a lady. Her name is Miss Muriel Stacy. Isn’t that a romantic name? Mrs. Lynde says they’ve never had a female teacher in Avonlea before and she thinks it is a dangerous innovation. But I think it will be splendid to have a lady teacher, and I really don’t see how I’m going to live through the two weeks before school begins. I’m so impatient to see her.’
“哦，玛丽拉，我度过了一段最美妙的时光。我觉得我没有白活，即使我再也不会被邀请到豪宅喝茶，我也会永远有这样的感觉。当我到达那里时，艾伦夫人在门口迎接了我。她穿着最甜美的淡粉色透明纱连衣裙，有几十条褶边和肘袖，看起来就像一个六翼天使。我真的想长大后成为牧师的妻子，玛丽拉。一个牧师可能不会介意我的红头发，因为他不会考虑这些世俗的事情。但当然，一个人必须天生善良，而我永远不会那样，所以我认为思考这一点是没有用的。你知道，有些人天生善良，而另一些人则不然。我是其他人之一。林德夫人说我充满了原罪。无论我如何努力变得善良，我都永远无法像那些天生善良的人那样成功。我想这很像几何学。但你不认为如此努力应该有意义吗？艾伦夫人是一位天生的好人。我热烈地爱她。你知道有些人，比如马修和艾伦夫人，你可以毫不费力地立即爱上他们。还有其他一些人，比如林德夫人，你必须非常努力地去爱。你知道你应该爱他们，因为他们知道很多，而且是教会中如此积极的工人，但你必须一直提醒自己这一点，否则你就会忘记。宅邸里还有另一个小女孩来喝茶，来自白沙主日学校。她的名字叫劳雷特·布拉德利，是一个非常好的小女孩。你知道，不完全是志同道合的人，但仍然很好。我们喝了一杯优雅的茶，我想我很好地遵守了所有的礼仪规则。喝完茶后，夫人 艾伦一边演奏一边唱歌，她还让劳雷塔和我也唱歌。艾伦夫人说我有一副好嗓子，她说此后我必须在主日学校唱诗班唱歌。你无法想象我仅仅想到这一点就感到多么兴奋。我一直渴望像戴安娜一样在主日学校唱诗班唱歌，但我担心这是我永远无法渴望的荣誉。劳雷塔不得不早点回家，因为今晚白沙酒店有一场大型音乐会，她姐姐要在音乐会上朗诵。劳雷塔说，酒店里的美国人每两周举办一场音乐会，以援助夏洛特敦医院，他们要求很多白沙人朗诵。劳雷塔说她预计有一天会被问到。我只是敬畏地看着她。她走后，我和艾伦夫人进行了一次交心的谈话。我告诉了她一切——关于托马斯夫人和双胞胎、凯蒂·莫里斯和维奥莱塔、来到绿山墙以及我在几何学上遇到的麻烦。你相信吗，玛丽拉？艾伦夫人告诉我她对几何也很笨。你不知道这如何鼓励了我。就在我离开之前，林德太太来到了宅邸，你觉得怎么样，玛丽拉？受托人聘请了一位新老师，是一位女士。她的名字是穆里尔·史黛西小姐。这不是一个浪漫的名字吗？林德夫人说，埃文利以前从未有过女老师，她认为这是一个危险的创新。但我觉得有一位女老师就太好了，我真不知道开学前的两周要怎么度过。我迫不及待地想见她。’

Chapter XXIII
第二十三章


Anne Comes to Grief in an Affair of Honor
安妮因荣誉事件而陷入悲伤

Anne had to live through more than two weeks, as it happened. Almost a month having elapsed since the liniment cake episode, it was high time for her to get into fresh trouble of some sort, little mistakes, such as absentmindedly emptying a pan of skim milk into a basket of yarn balls in the pantry instead of into the pigs’ bucket, and walking clean over the edge of the log bridge into the brook while wrapped in imaginative reverie, not really being worth counting.
碰巧，安妮不得不熬过两个多星期。搽剂蛋糕事件已经过去了快一个月了，她是时候陷入某种新的麻烦了，小错误，比如心不在焉地将一盘脱脂牛奶倒进食品储藏室的一篮子毛线球里，而不是倒进食品储藏室里。猪桶，干净利落地从独木桥边走进小溪，沉浸在想象中，实在不值一提。

A week after the tea at the manse Diana Barry gave a party.
戴安娜·巴里在庄园喝茶一周后举办了一场聚会。

‘Small and select,’ Anne assured Marilla. ‘Just the girls in our class.’
“小而精选，”安妮向玛丽拉保证。 “只有我们班的女孩们。”

They had a very good time and nothing untoward happened until after tea, when they found themselves in the Barry garden, a little tired of all their games and ripe for any enticing form of mischief which might present itself. This presently took the form of ‘daring.’
他们度过了一段愉快的时光，没有发生任何不愉快的事情，直到喝完茶后，他们发现自己来到了巴里花园，对所有的游戏都感到有点厌倦，并准备好进行任何可能出现的诱人恶作剧。这现在表现为“大胆”。

Daring was the fashionable amusement among the Avonlea small fry just then. It had begun among the boys, but soon spread to the girls, and all the silly things that were done in Avonlea that summer because the doers thereof were ‘dared’ to do them would fill a book by themselves.
当时，大胆是埃文利小混混中流行的娱乐活动。它在男孩们中开始，但很快就蔓延到了女孩们，那年夏天在埃文利所做的所有愚蠢的事情，因为这些事情的实施者“敢于”做，这些事情本身就可以写成一本书。

First of all Carrie Sloane dared Ruby Gillis to climb to a certain point in the huge old willow tree before the front door; which Ruby Gillis, albeit in mortal dread of the fat green caterpillars with which said tree was infested and with the fear of her mother before her eyes if she should tear her new muslin dress, nimbly did, to the discomfiture of the aforesaid Carrie Sloane. Then Josie Pye dared Jane Andrews to hop on her left leg around the garden without stopping once or putting her right foot to the ground; which Jane Andrews gamely tried to do, but gave out at the third corner and had to confess herself defeated.
首先，凯莉·斯隆（Carrie Sloane）向鲁比·吉利斯（Ruby Gillis）发起挑战，让她爬到前门前那棵巨大的老柳树上的某个位置；鲁比·吉利斯虽然非常害怕那棵树上长满了肥大的绿色毛毛虫，也担心她的母亲会撕破她的新平纹细布裙子，但她还是敏捷地做到了，这让前面提到的凯丽·斯隆感到很沮丧。然后乔西·派伊（Josie Pye）向简·安德鲁斯（Jane Andrews）挑战，用她的左腿在花园里跳来跳去，一次也没有停下来，右脚也没有着地。简·安德鲁斯勇敢地尝试这样做，但在第三个拐角处失败了，不得不承认自己失败了。

Josie’s triumph being rather more pronounced than good taste permitted, Anne Shirley dared her to walk along the top of the board fence which bounded the garden to the east. Now, to ‘walk’ board fences requires more skill and steadiness of head and heel than one might suppose who has never tried it. But Josie Pye, if deficient in some qualities that make for popularity, had at least a natural and inborn gift, duly cultivated, for walking board fences. Josie walked the Barry fence with an airy unconcern which seemed to imply that a little thing like that wasn’t worth a ‘dare.’ Reluctant admiration greeted her exploit, for most of the other girls could appreciate it, having suffered many things themselves in their efforts to walk fences. Josie descended from her perch, flushed with victory, and darted a defiant glance at Anne.
乔西的胜利过于明显，超出了良好品味所允许的范围，安妮·雪莉鼓励她沿着东边花园的木板栅栏的顶部行走。现在，“行走”木板栅栏需要更多的技巧以及头部和脚跟的稳定性，这比从未尝试过的人可能想象的要多。但乔西·派伊（Josie Pye）虽然缺乏某些受欢迎的品质，但至少有一种天生的、与生俱来的天赋，经过适当的培养，可以做走木板栅栏。乔西带着一种轻率的漠然走过巴里的栅栏，这似乎暗示着这样的小事不值得“冒险”。他们努力走过栅栏。乔西从座位上下来，胜利的脸红了，挑衅地看了安妮一眼。

Anne tossed her red braids.
安妮甩动她的红辫子。

‘I don’t think it’s such a very wonderful thing to walk a little, low, board fence,’ she said. ‘I knew a girl in Marysville who could walk the ridgepole of a roof.’
“我不认为在低矮的木栅栏上行走是一件多么美妙的事情，”她说。 “我在马里斯维尔认识一个女孩，她可以爬上屋顶的屋脊。”

‘I don’t believe it,’ said Josie flatly. ‘I don’t believe anybody could walk a ridgepole. YOU couldn’t, anyhow.’
“我不相信，”乔西淡淡地说。 “我不相信有人能走上屋脊。无论如何，你不能。

‘Couldn’t I?’ cried Anne rashly.
“我不能吗？”安妮急忙喊道。

‘Then I dare you to do it,’ said Josie defiantly. ‘I dare you to climb up there and walk the ridgepole of Mr. Barry’s kitchen roof.’
“那我就挑战你这么做，”乔西挑衅地说。 “我敢说你敢爬上去，走在巴里先生厨房屋顶的屋脊上。”

Anne turned pale, but there was clearly only one thing to be done. She walked toward the house, where a ladder was leaning against the kitchen roof. All the fifth-class girls said, ‘Oh!’ partly in excitement, partly in dismay.
安妮脸色惨白，但显然只有一件事要做。她朝房子走去，厨房的屋顶上斜靠着一架梯子。五年级的女生们都“哦”了一声，一脸兴奋，一脸沮丧。

‘Don’t you do it, Anne,’ entreated Diana. ‘You’ll fall off and be killed. Never mind Josie Pye. It isn’t fair to dare anybody to do anything so dangerous.’
“你别这么做，安妮，”戴安娜恳求道。 ‘你会摔下来并被杀。别介意乔西·派伊。敢于让任何人做如此危险的事情是不公平的。”

‘I must do it. My honor is at stake,’ said Anne solemnly. ‘I shall walk that ridgepole, Diana, or perish in the attempt. If I am killed you are to have my pearl bead ring.’
'我必须要做这件事。我的荣誉受到威胁。”安妮严肃地说。 “戴安娜，我将走过那根屋脊，否则就会在尝试中灭亡。”如果我被杀了，你就会得到我的珍珠戒指。”

Anne climbed the ladder amid breathless silence, gained the ridgepole, balanced herself uprightly on that precarious footing, and started to walk along it, dizzily conscious that she was uncomfortably high up in the world and that walking ridgepoles was not a thing in which your imagination helped you out much. Nevertheless, she managed to take several steps before the catastrophe came. Then she swayed, lost her balance, stumbled, staggered, and fell, sliding down over the sun-baked roof and crashing off it through the tangle of Virginia creeper beneath— all before the dismayed circle below could give a simultaneous, terrified shriek.
安妮在令人窒息的寂静中爬上梯子，爬上屋脊，在不稳定的基础上保持平衡，开始沿着梯子行走，她头晕目眩地意识到自己身处世界的高处，感到不舒服，而行走的屋脊并不是你想象中的东西。帮了你很多忙。尽管如此，她还是在灾难到来之前成功迈出了几步。然后她摇摇晃晃，失去平衡，踉踉跄跄，踉踉跄跄，摔倒了，从阳光炙烤的屋顶上滑下来，穿过下面缠结的弗吉尼亚爬山虎，从屋顶上摔下来——所有这一切都发生在下面惊慌失措的圆圈同时发出一声惊恐的尖叫之前。

If Anne had tumbled off the roof on the side up which she had ascended Diana would probably have fallen heir to the pearl bead ring then and there. Fortunately she fell on the other side, where the roof extended down over the porch so nearly to the ground that a fall therefrom was a much less serious thing. Nevertheless, when Diana and the other girls had rushed frantically around the house—except Ruby Gillis, who remained as if rooted to the ground and went into hysterics—they found Anne lying all white and limp among the wreck and ruin of the Virginia creeper.
如果安妮从她所登上的一侧的屋顶上摔下来，戴安娜可能会当场成为珍珠珠戒指的继承人。幸运的是，她是从另一边摔下来的，那里的屋顶一直延伸到门廊上，离地面很近，所以从那里摔下来并不是什么严重的事情。然而，当戴安娜和其他女孩在房子里疯狂地冲来冲去时——除了鲁比·吉利斯，她仍然像根扎在地上一样，陷入歇斯底里——她们发现安妮全身苍白、软弱无力地躺在弗吉尼亚爬山虎的残骸和废墟中。

‘Anne, are you killed?’ shrieked Diana, throwing herself on her knees beside her friend. ‘Oh, Anne, dear Anne, speak just one word to me and tell me if you’re killed.’
“安妮，你被杀了吗？”戴安娜尖叫着，跪在她朋友身边。 “哦，安妮，亲爱的安妮，只要对我说一句话，告诉我你是否被杀了。”

To the immense relief of all the girls, and especially of Josie Pye, who, in spite of lack of imagination, had been seized with horrible visions of a future branded as the girl who was the cause of Anne Shirley’s early and tragic death, Anne sat dizzily up and answered uncertainly:
让所有女孩，尤其是乔西·派伊，都松了口气，尽管她缺乏想象力，却对未来充满了可怕的幻想，而这个女孩正是造成安妮·雪莉早年悲惨死亡的原因。头晕地坐起来，不确定地回答：

‘No, Diana, I am not killed, but I think I am rendered unconscious.’
“不，戴安娜，我没有被杀，但我想我失去了知觉。”

‘Where?’ sobbed Carrie Sloane. ‘Oh, where, Anne?’ Before Anne could answer Mrs. Barry appeared on the scene. At sight of her Anne tried to scramble to her feet, but sank back again with a sharp little cry of pain.
“去哪儿？”嘉莉·斯隆抽泣着。 “哦，安妮，在哪里？”安妮还没来得及回答，巴里夫人就出现了。安妮一看到她，就想爬起来，但又因疼痛而发出一声尖锐的小叫声，又倒了回去。

‘What’s the matter? Where have you hurt yourself?’ demanded Mrs. Barry.
'怎么了？ “你哪里受伤了？”巴里夫人问道。

‘My ankle,’ gasped Anne. ‘Oh, Diana, please find your father and ask him to take me home. I know I can never walk there. And I’m sure I couldn’t hop so far on one foot when Jane couldn’t even hop around the garden.’
“我的脚踝，”安妮喘着气说。 “哦，戴安娜，请找到你的父亲，请他带我回家。我知道我永远无法走到那里。我确信当简甚至无法在花园里跳来跳去时，我无法用一只脚跳那么远。

Marilla was out in the orchard picking a panful of summer apples when she saw Mr. Barry coming over the log bridge and up the slope, with Mrs. Barry beside him and a whole procession of little girls trailing after him. In his arms he carried Anne, whose head lay limply against his shoulder.
玛丽拉正在果园里采摘一盘夏季苹果，这时她看到巴里先生走过独木桥，爬上了斜坡，巴里太太在他身边，一队小女孩跟在他后面。他怀里抱着安妮，安妮的头无力地靠在他的肩上。

At that moment Marilla had a revelation. In the sudden stab of fear that pierced her very heart she realized what Anne had come to mean to her. She would have admitted that she liked Anne—nay, that she was very fond of Anne. But now she knew as she hurried wildly down the slope that Anne was dearer to her than anything else on earth.
就在那一刻，玛丽拉有了一个启示。突如其来的恐惧刺痛了她的心，她意识到安妮对她意味着什么。她会承认她喜欢安妮——不，她非常喜欢安妮。但现在，当她疯狂地冲下斜坡时，她知道安妮对她来说比地球上的任何东西都重要。

‘Mr. Barry, what has happened to her?’ she gasped, more white and shaken than the self-contained, sensible Marilla had been for many years.
'先生。巴里，她怎么了？”她喘息着，脸色比多年来自持、懂事的玛丽拉更加苍白和颤抖。

Anne herself answered, lifting her head.
安妮抬起头回答道。

‘Don’t be very frightened, Marilla. I was walking the ridgepole and I fell off. I expect I have sprained my ankle. But, Marilla, I might have broken my neck. Let us look on the bright side of things.’
“别太害怕，玛丽拉。我正走在屋脊上，结果摔了下来。我估计我扭伤了脚踝。但是，玛丽拉，我可能会摔断脖子。让我们看看事情好的一面。

‘I might have known you’d go and do something of the sort when I let you go to that party,’ said Marilla, sharp and shrewish in her very relief. ‘Bring her in here, Mr. Barry, and lay her on the sofa. Mercy me, the child has gone and fainted!’
“当我让你去参加那个聚会时，我可能就知道你会去做那种事。”玛丽拉说道，她的语气尖刻而泼辣，她松了口气。 “把她带过来，巴里先生，把她放在沙发上。”可怜我吧，孩子已经走了，晕倒了！”

It was quite true. Overcome by the pain of her injury, Anne had one more of her wishes granted to her. She had fainted dead away.
这是千真万确的。安妮克服了受伤的痛苦，她的一个愿望又实现了。她已经昏过去了。

Matthew, hastily summoned from the harvest field, was straightway dispatched for the doctor, who in due time came, to discover that the injury was more serious than they had supposed. Anne’s ankle was broken.
马修从收割地里被匆匆叫来，立即被派去见医生，医生及时赶到，发现伤势比他们想象的更严重。安妮的脚踝骨折了。

That night, when Marilla went up to the east gable, where a white-faced girl was lying, a plaintive voice greeted her from the bed.
那天晚上，当玛丽拉登上东山墙时，那里躺着一个白脸女孩，床上传来了一个哀怨的声音。

‘Aren’t you very sorry for me, Marilla?’
“你不是很为我难过吗，玛丽拉？”

‘It was your own fault,’ said Marilla, twitching down the blind and lighting a lamp.
“这是你自己的错。”玛丽拉拉下百叶窗，点起一盏灯说道。

‘And that is just why you should be sorry for me,’ said Anne, ‘because the thought that it is all my own fault is what makes it so hard. If I could blame it on anybody I would feel so much better. But what would you have done, Marilla, if you had been dared to walk a ridgepole?’
“这就是为什么你应该为我感到难过，”安妮说，“因为一想到这都是我自己的错，就让事情变得如此困难。如果我能把责任归咎于任何人，我会感觉好多了。但是，玛丽拉，如果你敢于走在屋脊上，你会怎么做呢？

‘I’d have stayed on good firm ground and let them dare away. Such absurdity!’ said Marilla.
“我会站在坚实的立场上，让他们敢走。”太荒谬了！”玛丽拉说。

Anne sighed.
安妮叹了口气。

‘But you have such strength of mind, Marilla. I haven’t. I just felt that I couldn’t bear Josie Pye’s scorn. She would have crowed over me all my life. And I think I have been punished so much that you needn’t be very cross with me, Marilla. It’s not a bit nice to faint, after all. And the doctor hurt me dreadfully when he was setting my ankle. I won’t be able to go around for six or seven weeks and I’ll miss the new lady teacher. She won’t be new any more by the time I’m able to go to school. And Gil— everybody will get ahead of me in class. Oh, I am an afflicted mortal. But I’ll try to bear it all bravely if only you won’t be cross with me, Marilla.’
“但是你有如此强大的意志力，玛丽拉。我没有。我只是觉得我无法忍受乔西·派伊的蔑视。她会一辈子都在我身边。我想我已经受到了如此严重的惩罚，你不必对我很生气，玛丽拉。毕竟，晕倒可不太好。当医生给我固定脚踝时，我受了重伤。我将有六七个星期无法外出，我会想念新来的女老师。当我能够去学校的时候，她就不再是新的了。还有吉尔——课堂上每个人都会领先于我。哦，我是一个受苦的凡人。但只要你不生我的气，我会勇敢地承受这一切，玛丽拉。”

‘There, there, I’m not cross,’ said Marilla. ‘You’re an unlucky child, there’s no doubt about that; but as you say, you’ll have the suffering of it. Here now, try and eat some supper.’
“好了，好了，我没有生气，”玛丽拉说。 ‘你是个不幸的孩子，这是毫无疑问的；但正如你所说，你将承受它的痛苦。现在，试着吃点晚饭吧。

‘Isn’t it fortunate I’ve got such an imagination?’ said Anne. ‘It will help me through splendidly, I expect. What do people who haven’t any imagination do when they break their bones, do you suppose, Marilla?’
“我有这样的想象力，难道不是很幸运吗？”安妮说。 “我希望这会帮助我顺利度过难关。”你认为那些没有想象力的人骨折后会做什么，玛丽拉？

Anne had good reason to bless her imagination many a time and oft during the tedious seven weeks that followed. But she was not solely dependent on it. She had many visitors and not a day passed without one or more of the schoolgirls dropping in to bring her flowers and books and tell her all the happenings in the juvenile world of Avonlea.
在接下来的乏味的七周里，安妮有充分的理由多次祝福她的想象力。但她不仅仅依赖于此。她有很多访客，每天都会有一个或多个女学生来给她带来鲜花和书籍，并向她讲述埃文利少年世界中发生的所有事情。

‘Everybody has been so good and kind, Marilla,’ sighed Anne happily, on the day when she could first limp across the floor. ‘It isn’t very pleasant to be laid up; but there is a bright side to it, Marilla. You find out how many friends you have. Why, even Superintendent Bell came to see me, and he’s really a very fine man. Not a kindred spirit, of course; but still I like him and I’m awfully sorry I ever criticized his prayers. I believe now he really does mean them, only he has got into the habit of saying them as if he didn’t. He could get over that if he’d take a little trouble. I gave him a good broad hint. I told him how hard I tried to make my own little private prayers interesting. He told me all about the time he broke his ankle when he was a boy. It does seem so strange to think of Superintendent Bell ever being a boy. Even my imagination has its limits, for I can’t imagine THAT. When I try to imagine him as a boy I see him with gray whiskers and spectacles, just as he looks in Sunday school, only small. Now, it’s so easy to imagine Mrs. Allan as a little girl. Mrs. Allan has been to see me fourteen times. Isn’t that something to be proud of, Marilla? When a minister’s wife has so many claims on her time! She is such a cheerful person to have visit you, too. She never tells you it’s your own fault and she hopes you’ll be a better girl on account of it. Mrs. Lynde always told me that when she came to see me; and she said it in a kind of way that made me feel she might hope I’d be a better girl but didn’t really believe I would. Even Josie Pye came to see me. I received her as politely as I could, because I think she was sorry she dared me to walk a ridgepole. If I had been killed she would had to carry a dark burden of remorse all her life. Diana has been a faithful friend. She’s been over every day to cheer my lonely pillow. But oh, I shall be so glad when I can go to school for I’ve heard such exciting things about the new teacher. The girls all think she is perfectly sweet. Diana says she has the loveliest fair curly hair and such fascinating eyes. She dresses beautifully, and her sleeve puffs are bigger than anybody else’s in Avonlea. Every other Friday afternoon she has recitations and everybody has to say a piece or take part in a dialogue. Oh, it’s just glorious to think of it. Josie Pye says she hates it but that is just because Josie has so little imagination. Diana and Ruby Gillis and Jane Andrews are preparing a dialogue, called ‘A Morning Visit,’ for next Friday. And the Friday afternoons they don’t have recitations Miss Stacy takes them all to the woods for a ‘field’ day and they study ferns and flowers and birds. And they have physical culture exercises every morning and evening. Mrs. Lynde says she never heard of such goings on and it all comes of having a lady teacher. But I think it must be splendid and I believe I shall find that Miss Stacy is a kindred spirit.’
“每个人都那么善良，玛丽拉，”安妮高兴地叹了口气，那天她第一次一瘸一拐地走过地板。 “躺着休息并不是一件很愉快的事情；但这也有好的一面，玛丽拉。你会发现你有多少朋友。哎呀，连贝尔警司都来看我了，他真是一个非常好的人。当然，他们不是志同道合的人。但我仍然喜欢他，我很抱歉我批评了他的祈祷。我相信现在他确实是这么想的，只是他已经养成了说这些话的习惯，就好像他不是这么说的。如果他肯费点心思的话，他就能克服这个问题。我给了他一个很好的广泛暗示。我告诉他我多么努力地让自己的私人小祈祷变得有趣。他告诉我他小时候摔断脚踝的事。贝尔警监曾经是个男孩，这确实显得很奇怪。即使我的想象力也有其局限性，因为我无法想象。当我试着把他想象成一个男孩时，我看到他留着灰色的胡须，戴着眼镜，就像他在主日学校里的样子，只是个头很小。现在，很容易将艾伦夫人想象成一个小女孩。艾伦夫人来找我十四次了。这不是值得骄傲的事情吗，玛丽拉？当一位牧师的妻子对她的时间有如此多的要求时！她也是一个很高兴来拜访你的人。她从不告诉你这是你自己的错，她希望你因此而成为一个更好的女孩。林德夫人来看我时总是这样告诉我；她说这话的方式让我觉得她可能希望我成为一个更好的女孩，但她并不真的相信我会这么做。甚至乔西·派伊也来看过我。我尽可能礼貌地接待了她，因为我认为她很抱歉她敢于让我走上屋脊。如果我被杀了，她将不得不终生背负着悔恨的沉重负担。 戴安娜一直是一位忠实的朋友。她每天都过来为我孤独的枕头加油。但是哦，当我可以去学校时我会很高兴，因为我听到了关于新老师的如此令人兴奋的事情。女孩们都认为她非常可爱。戴安娜说她拥有最可爱的金色卷发和迷人的眼睛。她衣着漂亮，袖子的泡泡比埃文利其他人的都大。每隔一个周五下午，她都会进行朗诵，每个人都必须说一段话或参加对话。哦，想想真是光荣。乔西·派伊说她讨厌它，但这只是因为乔西的想象力太少了。戴安娜、鲁比·吉利斯和简·安德鲁斯正在准备下周五的一场名为“晨间访问”的对话。周五下午，他们没有背诵，史黛西小姐带他们去树林里度过一个“田野”日，他们研究蕨类植物、花卉和鸟类。他们每天早晚都有体育锻炼。林德夫人说她从来没有听说过这样的事情，这一切都是因为有一位女老师。但我想那一定很精彩，我相信我会发现史黛西小姐是志同道合的人。’

‘There’s one thing plain to be seen, Anne,’ said Marilla, ‘and that is that your fall off the Barry roof hasn’t injured your tongue at all.’
“有一点是显而易见的，安妮，”玛丽拉说，“那就是你从巴里屋顶上摔下来根本没有伤到你的舌头。”

Chapter XXIV
第二十四章


Miss Stacy and Her Pupils Get Up a Concert
史黛西小姐和她的学生们举办音乐会

It was October again when Anne was ready to go back to school—a glorious October, all red and gold, with mellow mornings when the valleys were filled with delicate mists as if the spirit of autumn had poured them in for the sun to drain—amethyst, pearl, silver, rose, and smoke-blue. The dews were so heavy that the fields glistened like cloth of silver and there were such heaps of rustling leaves in the hollows of many-stemmed woods to run crisply through. The Birch Path was a canopy of yellow and the ferns were sear and brown all along it. There was a tang in the very air that inspired the hearts of small maidens tripping, unlike snails, swiftly and willingly to school; and it WAS jolly to be back again at the little brown desk beside Diana, with Ruby Gillis nodding across the aisle and Carrie Sloane sending up notes and Julia Bell passing a ‘chew’ of gum down from the back seat. Anne drew a long breath of happiness as she sharpened her pencil and arranged her picture cards in her desk. Life was certainly very interesting.
安妮准备回学校的时候，又到了十月——一个光荣的十月，到处都是红色和金色，早晨柔和，山谷里弥漫着淡淡的薄雾，仿佛秋天的精灵把它们倾注进来，让阳光流干——紫水晶色、珍珠色、银色、玫瑰色和烟蓝色。露水如此浓重，田野像银布一样闪闪发光，多茎树林的空洞里有一堆堆沙沙作响的树叶，清脆地穿过。白桦林小径是一片黄色的树冠，沿途的蕨类植物都是焦黄的。空气中弥漫着一股腥味，激发了小姑娘们的心，不像蜗牛，迅速而心甘情愿地去上学；再次回到戴安娜旁边的棕色小桌子旁，真是令人高兴，鲁比·吉利斯在过道对面点头，凯莉·斯隆发来纸条，朱莉娅·贝尔从后座上递下一块“嚼”口香糖。安妮幸福地长长地吸了一口气，削尖了铅笔，把画卡放在书桌上。生活当然非常有趣。

In the new teacher she found another true and helpful friend. Miss Stacy was a bright, sympathetic young woman with the happy gift of winning and holding the affections of her pupils and bringing out the best that was in them mentally and morally. Anne expanded like a flower under this wholesome influence and carried home to the admiring Matthew and the critical Marilla glowing accounts of schoolwork and aims.
在新老师身上，她找到了另一个真正的、乐于助人的朋友。史黛西小姐是一位聪明、富有同情心的年轻女子，她拥有赢得和保持学生们的感情并激发他们在精神和道德上最好的一面的幸福天赋。在这种有益健康的影响下，安妮像一朵花一样绽放，并带回了令人钦佩的马修和玛丽拉对学业和目标的批判性热情描述。

‘I love Miss Stacy with my whole heart, Marilla. She is so ladylike and she has such a sweet voice. When she pronounces my name I feel INSTINCTIVELY that she’s spelling it with an E. We had recitations this afternoon. I just wish you could have been there to hear me recite ‘Mary, Queen of Scots.’ I just put my whole soul into it. Ruby Gillis told me coming home that the way I said the line, ‘Now for my father’s arm,’ she said, ‘my woman’s heart farewell,’ just made her blood run cold.’
“我全心全意地爱史黛西小姐，玛丽拉。她很有淑女气质，声音也很甜美。当她念出我的名字时，我本能地感觉到她拼写的是 E。今天下午我们进行了背诵。我只是希望你能在那里听我背诵“玛丽，苏格兰女王”。我只是全​​身心投入其中。鲁比·吉利斯 (Ruby Gillis) 回家后告诉我，我说“现在拥抱我父亲的手臂，”她说，“我女人的心告别”，让她浑身发冷。

‘Well now, you might recite it for me some of these days, out in the barn,’ suggested Matthew.
“好吧，你可以找几天在谷仓里给我背诵一下，”马修建议道。

‘Of course I will,’ said Anne meditatively, ‘but I won’t be able to do it so well, I know. It won’t be so exciting as it is when you have a whole schoolful before you hanging breathlessly on your words. I know I won’t be able to make your blood run cold.’
“我当然会，”安妮若有所思地说，“但我知道，我做不到那么好。”当你气喘吁吁地坚持自己的言论之前，它不会像你已经上了一整堂课那样令人兴奋。我知道我无法让你冷血。

‘Mrs. Lynde says it made HER blood run cold to see the boys climbing to the very tops of those big trees on Bell’s hill after crows’ nests last Friday,’ said Marilla. ‘I wonder at Miss Stacy for encouraging it.’
'太太。林德说，上周五看到孩子们在鸟巢后爬到贝尔山上那些大树的最高处，让她感到心寒。”马里拉说。 “我想知道史黛西小姐是否鼓励这样做。”

‘But we wanted a crow’s nest for nature study,’ explained Anne. ‘That was on our field afternoon. Field afternoons are splendid, Marilla. And Miss Stacy explains everything so beautifully. We have to write compositions on our field afternoons and I write the best ones.’
“但我们想要一个用于自然研究的瞭望台，”安妮解释道。 “那是在我们的田野里的下午。田野里的下午真是美妙极了，玛丽拉。史黛西小姐对一切的解释都非常精彩。我们必须在野外下午写作文，而我写的最好。

‘It’s very vain of you to say so then. You’d better let your teacher say it.’
‘那么你这么说真是太自负了。你最好让你的老师说。

‘But she DID say it, Marilla. And indeed I’m not vain about it. How can I be, when I’m such a dunce at geometry? Although I’m really beginning to see through it a little, too. Miss Stacy makes it so clear. Still, I’ll never be good at it and I assure you it is a humbling reflection. But I love writing compositions. Mostly Miss Stacy lets us choose our own subjects; but next week we are to write a composition on some remarkable person. It’s hard to choose among so many remarkable people who have lived. Mustn’t it be splendid to be remarkable and have compositions written about you after you’re dead? Oh, I would dearly love to be remarkable. I think when I grow up I’ll be a trained nurse and go with the Red Crosses to the field of battle as a messenger of mercy. That is, if I don’t go out as a foreign missionary. That would be very romantic, but one would have to be very good to be a missionary, and that would be a stumbling block. We have physical culture exercises every day, too. They make you graceful and promote digestion.’
“但她确实这么说了，玛丽拉。事实上，我对此并不自负。我几何学这么笨，怎么可能呢？尽管我也开始有点看透它了。史黛西小姐说得很清楚。尽管如此，我永远不会擅长于此，我向你保证，这是一个令人羞愧的反思。但我喜欢写作文。大多数情况下，史黛西小姐让我们选择自己的科目；但下周我们要写一篇关于某个杰出人物的作文。在这么多曾经生活过的杰出人物中很难做出选择。成为一个杰出人物，并且在你死后有人为你写文章，这难道不是一件很美妙的事情吗？哦，我非常想成为杰出的人。我想长大后我会成为一名训练有素的护士，作为仁慈的使者与红十字会一起奔赴战场。也就是说，如果我不出去当外国传教士的话。这将是非常浪漫的事情，但是一个人必须非常优秀才能成为一名传教士，而这将是一个绊脚石。我们每天也有体育锻炼。它们让你变得优雅并促进消化。”

‘Promote fiddlesticks!’ said Marilla, who honestly thought it was all nonsense.
“提倡小提琴！”玛丽拉说，她真心认为这完全是胡说八道。

But all the field afternoons and recitation Fridays and physical culture contortions paled before a project which Miss Stacy brought forward in November. This was that the scholars of Avonlea school should get up a concert and hold it in the hall on Christmas Night, for the laudable purpose of helping to pay for a schoolhouse flag. The pupils one and all taking graciously to this plan, the preparations for a program were begun at once. And of all the excited performers-elect none was so excited as Anne Shirley, who threw herself into the undertaking heart and soul, hampered as she was by Marilla’s disapproval. Marilla thought it all rank foolishness.
但在史黛西小姐十一月份提出的一个项目面前，所有的下午田野活动、周五的背诵和体育训练都显得黯然失色。埃文利学校的学者们应该在圣诞节晚上在大厅举行一场音乐会，以帮助支付校舍旗帜的值得称赞的目的。学生们都欣然接受了这个计划，节目的准备工作立刻开始了。在所有激动的当选表演者中，没有人比安妮·雪莉更兴奋了，她全心全意地投入到这项事业中，但玛丽拉的反对却让她受到了阻碍。玛丽拉认为这一切都是愚蠢的。

‘It’s just filling your heads up with nonsense and taking time that ought to be put on your lessons,’ she grumbled. ‘I don’t approve of children’s getting up concerts and racing about to practices. It makes them vain and forward and fond of gadding.’
“这只是让你脑子里充满废话，占用了你应该花在功课上的时间，”她抱怨道。 “我不赞成孩子们去听音乐会并跑去练习。这让他们变得虚荣、前卫、喜欢闲逛。

‘But think of the worthy object,’ pleaded Anne. ‘A flag will cultivate a spirit of patriotism, Marilla.’
“但是想想有价值的东西，”安妮恳求道。 “国旗会培养爱国主义精神，玛丽拉。”

‘Fudge! There’s precious little patriotism in the thoughts of any of you. All you want is a good time.’
'做傻事！你们每个人的思想中都没有一点宝贵的爱国主义。你想要的只是一段美好时光。

‘Well, when you can combine patriotism and fun, isn’t it all right? Of course it’s real nice to be getting up a concert. We’re going to have six choruses and Diana is to sing a solo. I’m in two dialogues—‘The Society for the Suppression of Gossip’ and ‘The Fairy Queen.’ The boys are going to have a dialogue too. And I’m to have two recitations, Marilla. I just tremble when I think of it, but it’s a nice thrilly kind of tremble. And we’re to have a tableau at the last—‘Faith, Hope and Charity.’ Diana and Ruby and I are to be in it, all draped in white with flowing hair. I’m to be Hope, with my hands clasped—so—and my eyes uplifted. I’m going to practice my recitations in the garret. Don’t be alarmed if you hear me groaning. I have to groan heartrendingly in one of them, and it’s really hard to get up a good artistic groan, Marilla. Josie Pye is sulky because she didn’t get the part she wanted in the dialogue. She wanted to be the fairy queen. That would have been ridiculous, for who ever heard of a fairy queen as fat as Josie? Fairy queens must be slender. Jane Andrews is to be the queen and I am to be one of her maids of honor. Josie says she thinks a red-haired fairy is just as ridiculous as a fat one, but I do not let myself mind what Josie says. I’m to have a wreath of white roses on my hair and Ruby Gillis is going to lend me her slippers because I haven’t any of my own. It’s necessary for fairies to have slippers, you know. You couldn’t imagine a fairy wearing boots, could you? Especially with copper toes? We are going to decorate the hall with creeping spruce and fir mottoes with pink tissue-paper roses in them. And we are all to march in two by two after the audience is seated, while Emma White plays a march on the organ. Oh, Marilla, I know you are not so enthusiastic about it as I am, but don’t you hope your little Anne will distinguish herself?’
‘好吧，当你能把爱国主义和乐趣结合起来时，不是吗？当然，能举办一场音乐会真是太好了。我们将有六首合唱，戴安娜将独唱。我参与了两场对话——《抑制流言蜚语协会》和《仙女女王》。男孩们也会有一场对话。我要朗诵两遍，玛丽拉。当我想到它时，我只是颤抖，但这是一种令人兴奋的颤抖。最后我们将看到一个场景——“信仰、希望和慈善”。戴安娜、鲁比和我都将出现在其中，全身披着白色的衣服，头发飘逸。我要成为希望，双手紧握——就这样——眼睛抬起来。我要去阁楼里练习念诵。如果您听到我的呻吟，请不要惊慌。我不得不在其中一个中发出令人心碎的呻吟，而要发出良好的艺术呻吟确实很难，玛丽拉。乔西·派伊很生气，因为她在对话中没有得到她想要的部分。她想成为仙女女王。这太荒谬了，因为谁听说过像乔西这样胖的仙女女王呢？仙女女王一定是苗条的。简·安德鲁斯将成为女王，我将成为她的伴娘之一。乔西说她认为红发仙子和胖仙子一样可笑，但我并不介意乔西说的话。我的头发上要戴一顶白玫瑰花环，鲁比·吉利斯会把她的拖鞋借给我，因为我自己没有拖鞋。仙女们必备拖鞋，你懂的。你无法想象仙女穿着靴子，不是吗？尤其是铜脚趾？我们要用匍匐云杉和冷杉的座右铭来装饰大厅，里面还有粉红色的薄纸玫瑰。观众入座后，我们要两两列队行进，艾玛·怀特则用管风琴演奏进行曲。 哦，玛丽拉，我知道你不像我那么热衷，但是你不希望你的小安妮能脱颖而出吗？’

‘All I hope is that you’ll behave yourself. I’ll be heartily glad when all this fuss is over and you’ll be able to settle down. You are simply good for nothing just now with your head stuffed full of dialogues and groans and tableaus. As for your tongue, it’s a marvel it’s not clean worn out.’
“我只希望你能规矩一点。当所有这些大惊小怪都结束并且你能够安定下来时，我会由衷地高兴。你现在简直一无是处，脑子里塞满了对话、呻吟和场面。至于你的舌头，它没有完全磨损真是一个奇迹。

Anne sighed and betook herself to the back yard, over which a young new moon was shining through the leafless poplar boughs from an apple-green western sky, and where Matthew was splitting wood. Anne perched herself on a block and talked the concert over with him, sure of an appreciative and sympathetic listener in this instance at least.
安妮叹了口气，走到后院，苹果绿的西方天空中，一轮新月正透过光秃秃的白杨树枝照耀着，马修正在那里劈柴。安妮坐在一个街区上，与他谈论音乐会，至少在这种情况下，她确信她是一位欣赏和同情的听众。

‘Well now, I reckon it’s going to be a pretty good concert. And I expect you’ll do your part fine,’ he said, smiling down into her eager, vivacious little face. Anne smiled back at him. Those two were the best of friends and Matthew thanked his stars many a time and oft that he had nothing to do with bringing her up. That was Marilla’s exclusive duty; if it had been his he would have been worried over frequent conflicts between inclination and said duty. As it was, he was free to, ‘spoil Anne’—Marilla’s phrasing—as much as he liked. But it was not such a bad arrangement after all; a little ‘appreciation’ sometimes does quite as much good as all the conscientious ‘bringing up’ in the world.
“现在，我认为这将是一场非常精彩的音乐会。我希望你能做好你该做的事，”他说道，微笑着看着她热切而活泼的小脸。安妮也对他微笑。这两个人是最好的朋友，马修多次感谢他的明星，因为他与抚养她无关。这是玛丽拉的专属职责。如果是他的话，他一定会担心自己的倾向和义务之间经常发生冲突。事实上，他可以随心所欲地“宠坏安妮”（玛丽拉的说法）。但这毕竟不是一个糟糕的安排。一点点“欣赏”有时与世界上所有认真的“教养”一样有效。

Chapter XXV
第二十五章


Matthew Insists on Puffed Sleeves
马修坚持泡泡袖

Matthew was having a bad ten minutes of it. He had come into the kitchen, in the twilight of a cold, gray December evening, and had sat down in the woodbox corner to take off his heavy boots, unconscious of the fact that Anne and a bevy of her schoolmates were having a practice of ‘The Fairy Queen’ in the sitting room. Presently they came trooping through the hall and out into the kitchen, laughing and chattering gaily. They did not see Matthew, who shrank bashfully back into the shadows beyond the woodbox with a boot in one hand and a bootjack in the other, and he watched them shyly for the aforesaid ten minutes as they put on caps and jackets and talked about the dialogue and the concert. Anne stood among them, bright eyed and animated as they; but Matthew suddenly became conscious that there was something about her different from her mates. And what worried Matthew was that the difference impressed him as being something that should not exist. Anne had a brighter face, and bigger, starrier eyes, and more delicate features than the other; even shy, unobservant Matthew had learned to take note of these things; but the difference that disturbed him did not consist in any of these respects. Then in what did it consist?
马修经历了很糟糕的十分钟。他在十二月一个寒冷、灰暗的夜晚的暮色中走进厨房，坐在木箱角落里脱掉沉重的靴子，没有意识到安妮和她的一群同学正在练习做菜。客厅里的“仙女女王”。不久，他们成群结队地穿过大厅，走进厨房，欢快地笑着、闲聊着。他们没有看到马修，马修一手拿着靴子，另一只手拿着脱鞋器，害羞地缩回木箱后面的阴影里，他害羞地看着他们在上述十分钟里戴上帽子和夹克，谈论着对话和音乐会。安妮站在他们中间，和他们一样眼睛明亮，充满活力。但马修突然意识到她和她的伙伴们有些不同。让马修担心的是，这种差异给他留下的印象是不应该存在的。安妮的脸比其他人更明亮，眼睛更大、更有星星，五官也更精致。即使是害羞、不善于观察的马修也学会了注意这些事情。但令他不安的差异并不在于这些方面。那么它的内容是什么？

Matthew was haunted by this question long after the girls had gone, arm in arm, down the long, hard-frozen lane and Anne had betaken herself to her books. He could not refer it to Marilla, who, he felt, would be quite sure to sniff scornfully and remark that the only difference she saw between Anne and the other girls was that they sometimes kept their tongues quiet while Anne never did. This, Matthew felt, would be no great help.
女孩们手挽着手沿着长长的、结冰的小巷走去，安妮则专心致志地读书之后，马修一直被这个问题困扰着。他不能把这件事交给玛丽拉，他觉得她肯定会轻蔑地嗤之以鼻，并说她在安妮和其他女孩之间看到的唯一区别是她们有时会保持沉默，而安妮却从不这样做。马修觉得这不会有太大帮助。

He had recourse to his pipe that evening to help him study it out, much to Marilla’s disgust. After two hours of smoking and hard reflection Matthew arrived at a solution of his problem. Anne was not dressed like the other girls!
那天晚上，他求助于烟斗来帮助他研究它，这让玛丽拉很反感。经过两个小时的吸烟和认真思考后，马修找到了解决问题的方法。安妮的穿着和其他女孩不一样！

The more Matthew thought about the matter the more he was convinced that Anne never had been dressed like the other girls—never since she had come to Green Gables. Marilla kept her clothed in plain, dark dresses, all made after the same unvarying pattern. If Matthew knew there was such a thing as fashion in dress it was as much as he did; but he was quite sure that Anne’s sleeves did not look at all like the sleeves the other girls wore. He recalled the cluster of little girls he had seen around her that evening—all gay in waists of red and blue and pink and white—and he wondered why Marilla always kept her so plainly and soberly gowned.
马修越想这件​​事，就越确信安妮从来没有像其他女孩那样穿着过——自从她来到绿山墙以来，从未如此。玛丽拉让她穿着朴素的深色衣服，所有衣服都是按照同样不变的图案制作的。如果马修知道衣着时尚这回事，他也知道。但他很确定安妮的袖子看起来一点也不像其他女孩穿的袖子。他回想起那天晚上他在她周围看到的一群小女孩——全都是穿着红色、蓝色、粉色和白色的腰部的欢快的女孩——他想知道为什么玛丽拉总是让她穿得如此朴素、朴素。

Of course, it must be all right. Marilla knew best and Marilla was bringing her up. Probably some wise, inscrutable motive was to be served thereby. But surely it would do no harm to let the child have one pretty dress—something like Diana Barry always wore. Matthew decided that he would give her one; that surely could not be objected to as an unwarranted putting in of his oar. Christmas was only a fortnight off. A nice new dress would be the very thing for a present. Matthew, with a sigh of satisfaction, put away his pipe and went to bed, while Marilla opened all the doors and aired the house.
当然，一定是没问题的。玛丽拉最清楚，是玛丽拉抚养她长大的。也许这样做是为了达到某种明智的、难以理解的动机。但让孩子拥有一件漂亮的衣服肯定不会有什么坏处——就像戴安娜·巴里总是穿的那样。马修决定给她一个。这肯定不会被认为是他无理划桨。圣诞节只剩下两周了。一件漂亮的新衣服非常适合作为礼物。马修满意地叹了口气，收起烟斗上床睡觉，而玛丽拉则打开所有的门，给屋里通风。

The very next evening Matthew betook himself to Carmody to buy the dress, determined to get the worst over and have done with it. It would be, he felt assured, no trifling ordeal. There were some things Matthew could buy and prove himself no mean bargainer; but he knew he would be at the mercy of shopkeepers when it came to buying a girl’s dress.
第二天晚上，马修就去卡莫迪买了这件衣服，决心克服最坏的情况并结束这一切。他确信，这不会是一个微不足道的考验。有些东西马修可以买来证明自己不是一个吝啬的讨价还价者。但他知道，在购买女孩的衣服时，他会受到店主的摆布。

After much cogitation Matthew resolved to go to Samuel Lawson’s store instead of William Blair’s. To be sure, the Cuthberts always had gone to William Blair’s; it was almost as much a matter of conscience with them as to attend the Presbyterian church and vote Conservative. But William Blair’s two daughters frequently waited on customers there and Matthew held them in absolute dread. He could contrive to deal with them when he knew exactly what he wanted and could point it out; but in such a matter as this, requiring explanation and consultation, Matthew felt that he must be sure of a man behind the counter. So he would go to Lawson’s, where Samuel or his son would wait on him.
经过深思熟虑，马修决定去塞缪尔·劳森的商店而不是威廉·布莱尔的商店。可以肯定的是，卡斯伯特一家总是去威廉·布莱尔家。对他们来说，这几乎与参加长老会教堂并投票给保守党一样是一个良心问题。但威廉·布莱尔的两个女儿经常在那里接待顾客，马修让她们感到绝对的恐惧。当他确切地知道自己想要什么并能指出来时，他就能设法对付他们。但在这种需要解释和咨询的事情上，马修觉得他必须确定柜台后面有一个人。所以他会去劳森家，塞缪尔或他的儿子会在那里伺候他。

Alas! Matthew did not know that Samuel, in the recent expansion of his business, had set up a lady clerk also; she was a niece of his wife’s and a very dashing young person indeed, with a huge, drooping pompadour, big, rolling brown eyes, and a most extensive and bewildering smile. She was dressed with exceeding smartness and wore several bangle bracelets that glittered and rattled and tinkled with every movement of her hands. Matthew was covered with confusion at finding her there at all; and those bangles completely wrecked his wits at one fell swoop.
唉!马修并不知道，塞缪尔最近为了扩大生意，还设立了一名女职员。她是他妻子的侄女，确实是一位风度翩翩的年轻人，留着大而下垂的蓬巴杜，棕色的大眼睛，转动着，脸上挂着灿烂而又令人迷惑的微笑。她穿着极其漂亮，戴着几只手镯，手镯随着她双手的每一个动作而闪闪发光、叮当作响。当马修发现她在那里时，他感到很困惑。而那些手镯一下子就将他的神智彻底摧毁了。

‘What can I do for you this evening, Mr. Cuthbert?’ Miss Lucilla Harris inquired, briskly and ingratiatingly, tapping the counter with both hands.
“库斯伯特先生，今晚我能为您做点什么吗？”露西拉·哈里斯小姐用双手敲着柜台，轻快而讨好地问道。

‘Have you any—any—any—well now, say any garden rakes?’ stammered Matthew.
“你有——任何——任何——好吧，比如说花园耙子吗？”马修结结巴巴地说。

Miss Harris looked somewhat surprised, as well she might, to hear a man inquiring for garden rakes in the middle of December.
哈里斯小姐在十二月中旬听到一个男人询问花园耙子时，看起来有些惊讶，她也可能会感到惊讶。

‘I believe we have one or two left over,’ she said, ‘but they’re upstairs in the lumber room. I’ll go and see.’ During her absence Matthew collected his scattered senses for another effort.
“我相信我们还剩下一两个，”她说，“但它们在楼上的杂物间里。”我去看看。”在她不在期间，马修集中起分散的感官，再次努力。

When Miss Harris returned with the rake and cheerfully inquired: ‘Anything else tonight, Mr. Cuthbert?’ Matthew took his courage in both hands and replied: ‘Well now, since you suggest it, I might as well—take—that is—look at—buy some—some hayseed.’
当哈里斯小姐拿着耙子回来时，高兴地问道：“库斯伯特先生，今晚还有什么事情吗？”马修鼓起勇气回答道：“好吧，既然你建议了，我不妨——采取——也就是说——看看——买一些——一些干草籽。”

Miss Harris had heard Matthew Cuthbert called odd. She now concluded that he was entirely crazy.
哈里斯小姐曾听马修·库斯伯特说他很奇怪。她现在断定他完全疯了。

‘We only keep hayseed in the spring,’ she explained loftily. ‘We’ve none on hand just now.’
“我们只在春天保留干草种子，”她傲慢地解释道。 “我们现在手头没有。”

‘Oh, certainly—certainly—just as you say,’ stammered unhappy Matthew, seizing the rake and making for the door. At the threshold he recollected that he had not paid for it and he turned miserably back. While Miss Harris was counting out his change he rallied his powers for a final desperate attempt.
“哦，当然——当然——正如你所说，”马修不高兴地结结巴巴地说，抓起耙子向门口走去。到了门口，他才想起自己还没有付钱，便痛苦地转身回去。当哈里斯小姐正在数着他的改变时，他集结力量进行了最后的绝望尝试。

‘Well now—if it isn’t too much trouble—I might as well—that is—I’d like to look at—at—some sugar.’
“好吧，如果不是太麻烦的话，我不妨——也就是说——我想看看——一些糖。”

‘White or brown?’ queried Miss Harris patiently.
“白色还是棕色？”哈里斯小姐耐心地问。

‘Oh—well now—brown,’ said Matthew feebly.
“哦——好吧——棕色，”马修有气无力地说。

‘There’s a barrel of it over there,’ said Miss Harris, shaking her bangles at it. ‘It’s the only kind we have.’
“那边有一桶，”哈里斯小姐一边说，一边对着它晃动手镯。 “这是我们唯一拥有的。”

‘I’ll—I’ll take twenty pounds of it,’ said Matthew, with beads of perspiration standing on his forehead.
“我——我要二十磅，”马修说，额头上冒出了汗珠。

Matthew had driven halfway home before he was his own man again. It had been a gruesome experience, but it served him right, he thought, for committing the heresy of going to a strange store. When he reached home he hid the rake in the tool house, but the sugar he carried in to Marilla.
马修已经开车回家了一半，然后才恢复了正常。这是一次可怕的经历，但他认为，他犯了去一家陌生商店的异端邪说，这是对的。当他回到家时，他把耙子藏在工具房里，但把糖带给了玛丽拉。

‘Brown sugar!’ exclaimed Marilla. ‘Whatever possessed you to get so much? You know I never use it except for the hired man’s porridge or black fruit cake. Jerry’s gone and I’ve made my cake long ago. It’s not good sugar, either—it’s coarse and dark—William Blair doesn’t usually keep sugar like that.’
“红糖！”玛丽拉喊道。 ‘到底是什么让你得到了这么多？你知道，除了雇工的粥或黑果蛋糕之外，我从来不使用它。杰瑞走了，我早就做好了蛋糕。这也不是好糖——又粗又黑——威廉·布莱尔通常不会那样保存糖。

‘I—I thought it might come in handy sometime,’ said Matthew, making good his escape.
“我——我想它有时可能会派上用场，”马修一边说，一边成功逃脱。

When Matthew came to think the matter over he decided that a woman was required to cope with the situation. Marilla was out of the question. Matthew felt sure she would throw cold water on his project at once. Remained only Mrs. Lynde; for of no other woman in Avonlea would Matthew have dared to ask advice. To Mrs. Lynde he went accordingly, and that good lady promptly took the matter out of the harassed man’s hands.
当马修仔细考虑这件事时，他决定需要一个女人来应对这种情况。玛丽拉是不可能的。马修确信她会立刻给他的项目泼冷水。只剩下林德太太了。因为埃文利没有其他女人马修敢于征求建议。他相应地去找了林德太太，那位好心的女士立即把这件事从这个受骚扰的人手中接了过来。

‘Pick out a dress for you to give Anne? To be sure I will. I’m going to Carmody tomorrow and I’ll attend to it. Have you something particular in mind? No? Well, I’ll just go by my own judgment then. I believe a nice rich brown would just suit Anne, and William Blair has some new gloria in that’s real pretty. Perhaps you’d like me to make it up for her, too, seeing that if Marilla was to make it Anne would probably get wind of it before the time and spoil the surprise? Well, I’ll do it. No, it isn’t a mite of trouble. I like sewing. I’ll make it to fit my niece, Jenny Gillis, for she and Anne are as like as two peas as far as figure goes.’
“选一件衣服送给安妮吧？”我肯定会的。我明天要去卡莫迪，我会去参加的。你有什么特别的想法吗？不？好吧，那我就按照我自己的判断去做吧。我相信漂亮的深棕色很适合安妮，威廉·布莱尔有一些新的荣耀，真的很漂亮。也许你也想让我补偿她，因为如果玛丽拉成功的话，安妮可能会在时间之前听到风声，破坏这个惊喜？好吧，我会做的。不，这不是什么麻烦。我喜欢缝纫。我会让它适合我的侄女珍妮·吉利斯，因为就身材而言，她和安妮就像两颗豌豆。

‘Well now, I’m much obliged,’ said Matthew, ‘and—and—I dunno—but I’d like—I think they make the sleeves different nowadays to what they used to be. If it wouldn’t be asking too much I—I’d like them made in the new way.’
“现在，我非常感激，”马修说，“而且——而且——我不知道——但我愿意——我认为他们现在的袖子与以前不同了。如果要求不是太高的话，我希望它们能以新的方式制作。

‘Puffs? Of course. You needn’t worry a speck more about it, Matthew. I’ll make it up in the very latest fashion,’ said Mrs. Lynde. To herself she added when Matthew had gone:
'泡芙？当然。你不必再担心一点，马修。我会用最新的时尚来化妆，”林德夫人说。马修走后，她对自己补充道：

‘It’ll be a real satisfaction to see that poor child wearing something decent for once. The way Marilla dresses her is positively ridiculous, that’s what, and I’ve ached to tell her so plainly a dozen times. I’ve held my tongue though, for I can see Marilla doesn’t want advice and she thinks she knows more about bringing children up than I do for all she’s an old maid. But that’s always the way. Folks that has brought up children know that there’s no hard and fast method in the world that’ll suit every child. But them as never have think it’s all as plain and easy as Rule of Three—just set your three terms down so fashion, and the sum’ll work out correct. But flesh and blood don’t come under the head of arithmetic and that’s where Marilla Cuthbert makes her mistake. I suppose she’s trying to cultivate a spirit of humility in Anne by dressing her as she does; but it’s more likely to cultivate envy and discontent. I’m sure the child must feel the difference between her clothes and the other girls’. But to think of Matthew taking notice of it! That man is waking up after being asleep for over sixty years.’
“看到那个可怜的孩子第一次穿得像样的衣服，我真的会感到很满足。”玛丽拉的着装实在是太可笑了，就是这样，我已经好几次想直白地告诉她了。不过我一直保持沉默，因为我看得出来玛丽拉并不需要建议，而且她认为自己比我更懂得如何抚养孩子，尽管她是个老处女。但总是这样。养过孩子的人都知道，世界上没有一种一刀切的方法适合每个孩子。但他们从来没有认为这一切像“三法则”一样简单明了——只需如此时尚地写下你的三个术语，总和就会得出正确的结果。但血肉之躯并不属于算术范畴，这就是玛丽拉·卡斯伯特犯下的错误。我想她是想通过安妮的着装来培养她谦逊的精神。但这更有可能滋生嫉妒和不满。我相信孩子一定能感觉到她的衣服和其他女孩的衣服有什么不同。但想想马修注意到了这一点！那个人沉睡了六十多年，终于苏醒了。”

Marilla knew all the following fortnight that Matthew had something on his mind, but what it was she could not guess, until Christmas Eve, when Mrs. Lynde brought up the new dress. Marilla behaved pretty well on the whole, although it is very likely she distrusted Mrs. Lynde’s diplomatic explanation that she had made the dress because Matthew was afraid Anne would find out about it too soon if Marilla made it.
在接下来的两周里，马修知道马修心里有事，但她猜不出到底是什么，直到圣诞节前夕，林德太太提出了那件新衣服。玛丽拉总的来说表现得很好，尽管她很可能不相信林德夫人关于她做这件衣服的外交解释，因为马修担心如果玛丽拉做了这件事，安妮会很快发现这件事。

‘So this is what Matthew has been looking so mysterious over and grinning about to himself for two weeks, is it?’ she said a little stiffly but tolerantly. ‘I knew he was up to some foolishness. Well, I must say I don’t think Anne needed any more dresses. I made her three good, warm, serviceable ones this fall, and anything more is sheer extravagance. There’s enough material in those sleeves alone to make a waist, I declare there is. You’ll just pamper Anne’s vanity, Matthew, and she’s as vain as a peacock now. Well, I hope she’ll be satisfied at last, for I know she’s been hankering after those silly sleeves ever since they came in, although she never said a word after the first. The puffs have been getting bigger and more ridiculous right along; they’re as big as balloons now. Next year anybody who wears them will have to go through a door sideways.’
“这就是马修两周来一直显得如此神秘、自顾自微笑的原因，是吗？”她有点生硬但宽容地说。 “我知道他在做一些蠢事。好吧，我必须说我认为安妮不需要更多的衣服。今年秋天我给她做了三件又好又暖又实用的衣服，再多一点就纯粹是奢侈了。我敢说，光袖子里就有足够的材料来制作腰部。你只会纵容安妮的虚荣心，马修，她现在像孔雀一样虚荣。好吧，我希望她最终会满意，因为我知道自从那些愚蠢的袖子进来后她就一直渴望它们，尽管在第一次之后她再也没有说过一句话。泡芙变得越来越大，越来越可笑。它们现在像气球一样大了。明年，任何佩戴它们的人都必须侧身进门。”

Christmas morning broke on a beautiful white world. It had been a very mild December and people had looked forward to a green Christmas; but just enough snow fell softly in the night to transfigure Avonlea. Anne peeped out from her frosted gable window with delighted eyes. The firs in the Haunted Wood were all feathery and wonderful; the birches and wild cherry trees were outlined in pearl; the plowed fields were stretches of snowy dimples; and there was a crisp tang in the air that was glorious. Anne ran downstairs singing until her voice reechoed through Green Gables.
圣诞节的早晨迎来了美丽的白色世界。那是一个非常温和的十二月，人们期待着一个绿色的圣诞节。但夜里飘落的雪花刚好足以让埃文利焕然一新。安妮从磨砂的山墙窗里向外张望，眼睛里充满了喜悦。鬼林里的冷杉长得像羽毛一样，美丽极了。桦树和野樱桃树被珍珠勾勒出轮廓。犁过的田地是一片片雪坑。空气中弥漫着一种令人愉悦的清脆味道。安妮唱着歌跑下楼，直到她的歌声回荡在绿山墙里。

‘Merry Christmas, Marilla! Merry Christmas, Matthew! Isn’t it a lovely Christmas? I’m so glad it’s white. Any other kind of Christmas doesn’t seem real, does it? I don’t like green Christmases. They’re not green— they’re just nasty faded browns and grays. What makes people call them green? Why—why—Matthew, is that for me? Oh, Matthew!’
“圣诞快乐，玛丽拉！圣诞快乐，马修！这不是一个美好的圣诞节吗？我很高兴它是白色的。其他任何形式的圣诞节似乎都不真实，不是吗？我不喜欢绿色圣诞节。它们不是绿色的——它们只是令人讨厌的褪色的棕色和灰色。是什么让人们称它们为绿色？为什么——为什么——马修，这是给我的吗？哦，马修！’

Matthew had sheepishly unfolded the dress from its paper swathings and held it out with a deprecatory glance at Marilla, who feigned to be contemptuously filling the teapot, but nevertheless watched the scene out of the corner of her eye with a rather interested air.
马修羞涩地把裙子从纸巾里展开，递过来，鄙视地看了玛丽拉一眼，玛丽拉假装轻蔑地往茶壶里倒茶，但仍然用眼角余光饶有兴趣地看着这一幕。

Anne took the dress and looked at it in reverent silence. Oh, how pretty it was—a lovely soft brown gloria with all the gloss of silk; a skirt with dainty frills and shirrings; a waist elaborately pintucked in the most fashionable way, with a little ruffle of filmy lace at the neck. But the sleeves—they were the crowning glory! Long elbow cuffs, and above them two beautiful puffs divided by rows of shirring and bows of brown-silk ribbon.
安妮接过裙子，虔诚地沉默着看着它。哦，多么漂亮啊——一顶可爱的、柔软的棕色格洛丽亚，带着丝绸般的光泽；带有精致褶边和褶边的裙子；腰部以最时尚的方式精心褶皱，颈部饰有薄薄蕾丝的小荷叶边。但袖子——它们是至高无上的荣耀！长长的肘部袖口，上面有两个漂亮的泡泡，被一排排的抽褶和棕色丝带蝴蝶结分开。

‘That’s a Christmas present for you, Anne,’ said Matthew shyly. ‘Why—why—Anne, don’t you like it? Well now—well now.’
“这是给你的圣诞礼物，安妮，”马修害羞地说。 ‘为什么——为什么——安妮，你不喜欢它吗？现在好了——现在好了。

For Anne’s eyes had suddenly filled with tears.
因为安妮的眼里突然充满了泪水。

‘Like it! Oh, Matthew!’ Anne laid the dress over a chair and clasped her hands. ‘Matthew, it’s perfectly exquisite. Oh, I can never thank you enough. Look at those sleeves! Oh, it seems to me this must be a happy dream.’
'喜欢它！哦，马修！”安妮把裙子放在椅子上，双手紧握。 ‘马修，这真是太精致了。噢，我对你的感谢永远都不够。看看那些袖子！哦，在我看来，这一定是一个幸福的梦。

‘Well, well, let us have breakfast,’ interrupted Marilla. ‘I must say, Anne, I don’t think you needed the dress; but since Matthew has got it for you, see that you take good care of it. There’s a hair ribbon Mrs. Lynde left for you. It’s brown, to match the dress. Come now, sit in.’
“好吧，好吧，我们吃早餐吧。”玛丽拉打断道。 “我必须说，安妮，我认为你不需要这件衣服；但既然马修已经给你准备好了，请务必妥善保管。林德夫人给你留了一条发带。是棕色的，和裙子很配。现在过来，坐进去。”

‘I don’t see how I’m going to eat breakfast,’ said Anne rapturously. ‘Breakfast seems so commonplace at such an exciting moment. I’d rather feast my eyes on that dress. I’m so glad that puffed sleeves are still fashionable. It did seem to me that I’d never get over it if they went out before I had a dress with them. I’d never have felt quite satisfied, you see. It was lovely of Mrs. Lynde to give me the ribbon too. I feel that I ought to be a very good girl indeed. It’s at times like this I’m sorry I’m not a model little girl; and I always resolve that I will be in future. But somehow it’s hard to carry out your resolutions when irresistible temptations come. Still, I really will make an extra effort after this.’
“我不知道该怎么吃早餐，”安妮兴高采烈地说。 “在如此激动人心的时刻，早餐似乎很平常。我宁愿大饱眼福那件衣服。我很高兴泡泡袖仍然很时尚。在我看来，如果他们在我给他们穿裙子之前就出去了，我就永远无法释怀。你看，我永远不会感到很满意。林德夫人也把丝带送给了我，这真是太好了。我觉得我确实应该是一个非常好的女孩。有时会这样，我很抱歉我不是一个模特小女孩；我始终坚信自己将来一定会成为这样的人。但不知何故，当不可抗拒的诱惑来临时，你很难执行你的决心。不过，在此之后我真的会付出额外的努力。

When the commonplace breakfast was over Diana appeared, crossing the white log bridge in the hollow, a gay little figure in her crimson ulster. Anne flew down the slope to meet her.
当普通的早餐结束后，黛安娜出现了，穿过空地里的白色木桥，她穿着深红色的羊毛衫，身材娇小，性格开朗。安妮飞下斜坡去迎接她。

‘Merry Christmas, Diana! And oh, it’s a wonderful Christmas. I’ve something splendid to show you. Matthew has given me the loveliest dress, with SUCH sleeves. I couldn’t even imagine any nicer.’
“圣诞快乐，戴安娜！哦，这是一个美好的圣诞节。我有一些很棒的东西要给你看。马修给了我最可爱的衣服，还有这样的袖子。我什至无法想象更好的事情。

‘I’ve got something more for you,’ said Diana breathlessly. ‘Here— this box. Aunt Josephine sent us out a big box with ever so many things in it—and this is for you. I’d have brought it over last night, but it didn’t come until after dark, and I never feel very comfortable coming through the Haunted Wood in the dark now.’
“我还给你准备了更多东西，”黛安娜气喘吁吁地说。 ‘这里——这个盒子。约瑟芬姨妈给我们送来了一个大盒子，里面装了很多东西——这是给你的。我昨晚本来想把它带过来的，但直到天黑之后才送来，现在在黑暗中穿过闹鬼的森林我从来都感觉不舒服。”

Anne opened the box and peeped in. First a card with ‘For the Anne-girl and Merry Christmas,’ written on it; and then, a pair of the daintiest little kid slippers, with beaded toes and satin bows and glistening buckles.
安妮打开盒子往里看。首先是一张卡片，上面写着“致安妮女孩，圣诞快乐”；然后是一双最精致的儿童拖鞋，脚趾上有串珠，缎面蝴蝶结和闪闪发光的搭扣。

‘Oh,’ said Anne, ‘Diana, this is too much. I must be dreaming.’
“哦，”安妮说，“戴安娜，这太过分了。”我一定是在做梦。'

‘I call it providential,’ said Diana. ‘You won’t have to borrow Ruby’s slippers now, and that’s a blessing, for they’re two sizes too big for you, and it would be awful to hear a fairy shuffling. Josie Pye would be delighted. Mind you, Rob Wright went home with Gertie Pye from the practice night before last. Did you ever hear anything equal to that?’
“我称之为天意，”戴安娜说。 “你现在不必借鲁比的拖鞋了，这是一件幸事，因为它们对你来说太大了两个尺码，而且听到仙女拖着脚步的声音会很糟糕。乔西·派伊会很高兴的。请注意，罗布·赖特（Rob Wright）前天晚上训练结束后与格蒂·派伊（Gertie Pye）一起回家。你听过类似的事吗？

All the Avonlea scholars were in a fever of excitement that day, for the hall had to be decorated and a last grand rehearsal held.
那天，所有埃文利学者都兴奋不已，因为大厅要装饰，还要进行最后一次盛大的排练。

The concert came off in the evening and was a pronounced success. The little hall was crowded; all the performers did excellently well, but Anne was the bright particular star of the occasion, as even envy, in the shape of Josie Pye, dared not deny.
音乐会于当晚举行，取得了巨大成功。小小的大厅里挤满了人。所有表演者都表现出色，但安妮是这次活动中最耀眼的明星，就连乔西·派伊（Josie Pye）这样的嫉妒者也不敢否认。

‘Oh, hasn’t it been a brilliant evening?’ sighed Anne, when it was all over and she and Diana were walking home together under a dark, starry sky.
“哦，这不是一个美好的夜晚吗？”安妮叹息道，一切都结束了，她和戴安娜在黑暗的星空下一起走回家。

‘Everything went off very well,’ said Diana practically. ‘I guess we must have made as much as ten dollars. Mind you, Mr. Allan is going to send an account of it to the Charlottetown papers.’
“一切都很顺利，”戴安娜几乎说道。 “我想我们一定赚了十美元。请注意，艾伦先生将向夏洛特敦报纸发送有关此事的报道。

‘Oh, Diana, will we really see our names in print? It makes me thrill to think of it. Your solo was perfectly elegant, Diana. I felt prouder than you did when it was encored. I just said to myself, ‘It is my dear bosom friend who is so honored.’
“哦，戴安娜，我们真的会看到我们的名字出现在印刷品上吗？想到这一点就让我兴奋不已。你的独奏非常优雅，戴安娜。当它被演唱时，我比你感到更自豪。我只是对自己说：‘这是我亲爱的知音如此荣幸。’

‘Well, your recitations just brought down the house, Anne. That sad one was simply splendid.’
“好吧，你的背诵让全场沸腾了，安妮。那个悲伤的人简直太棒了。”

‘Oh, I was so nervous, Diana. When Mr. Allan called out my name I really cannot tell how I ever got up on that platform. I felt as if a million eyes were looking at me and through me, and for one dreadful moment I was sure I couldn’t begin at all. Then I thought of my lovely puffed sleeves and took courage. I knew that I must live up to those sleeves, Diana. So I started in, and my voice seemed to be coming from ever so far away. I just felt like a parrot. It’s providential that I practiced those recitations so often up in the garret, or I’d never have been able to get through. Did I groan all right?’
“哦，我太紧张了，戴安娜。当艾伦先生喊出我的名字时，我实在不知道自己是怎么站上那个站台的。我感觉好像有一百万双眼睛在看着我并透过我，在一个可怕的时刻我确信我根本无法开始。然后我想到了我可爱的泡泡袖，鼓起勇气。我知道我必须辜负那些袖子，戴安娜。于是我开始了，我的声音似乎从很远的地方传来。我只觉得自己像一只鹦鹉。幸亏我经常在阁楼上练习这些背诵，否则我永远无法完成。我呻吟好吗？

‘Yes, indeed, you groaned lovely,’ assured Diana.
“是的，确实，你的呻吟声很可爱，”戴安娜保证道。

‘I saw old Mrs. Sloane wiping away tears when I sat down. It was splendid to think I had touched somebody’s heart. It’s so romantic to take part in a concert, isn’t it? Oh, it’s been a very memorable occasion indeed.’
“当我坐下时，我看到斯隆老太太在擦眼泪。想到我触动了某人的心真是太好了。参加演唱会真是太浪漫了不是吗？哦，这确实是一个非常难忘的时刻。

‘Wasn’t the boys’ dialogue fine?’ said Diana. ‘Gilbert Blythe was just splendid. Anne, I do think it’s awful mean the way you treat Gil. Wait till I tell you. When you ran off the platform after the fairy dialogue one of your roses fell out of your hair. I saw Gil pick it up and put it in his breast pocket. There now. You’re so romantic that I’m sure you ought to be pleased at that.’
“男孩们的对话不是很好吗？”戴安娜说。 “吉尔伯特·布莱斯真是太棒了。安妮，我确实认为你对待吉尔的方式太卑鄙了。等我告诉你。当你在仙女对话后跑下平台时，你的一朵玫瑰从你的头发上掉了下来。我看见吉尔把它捡起来，放进胸前的口袋里。就是现在。你太浪漫了，我相信你应该为此感到高兴。”

‘It’s nothing to me what that person does,’ said Anne loftily. ‘I simply never waste a thought on him, Diana.’
“那个人做了什么，对我来说无关紧要。”安妮傲慢地说。 “我从来没有在他身上浪费过心思，戴安娜。”

That night Marilla and Matthew, who had been out to a concert for the first time in twenty years, sat for a while by the kitchen fire after Anne had gone to bed.
那天晚上，安妮上床睡觉后，玛丽拉和马修在厨房的炉火旁坐了一会儿，这是二十年来第一次出去听音乐会。

‘Well now, I guess our Anne did as well as any of them,’ said Matthew proudly.
“现在，我想我们的安妮做得和他们中的任何一个人一样好，”马修自豪地说。

‘Yes, she did,’ admitted Marilla. ‘She’s a bright child, Matthew. And she looked real nice too. I’ve been kind of opposed to this concert scheme, but I suppose there’s no real harm in it after all. Anyhow, I was proud of Anne tonight, although I’m not going to tell her so.’
“是的，她做到了，”玛丽拉承认。 “她是个聪明的孩子，马修。而且她看起来也很漂亮。我一直反对这个音乐会计划，但我想这毕竟没有什么实际害处。不管怎样，今晚我为安妮感到骄傲，尽管我不会告诉她这一点。

‘Well now, I was proud of her and I did tell her so ‘fore she went upstairs,’ said Matthew. ‘We must see what we can do for her some of these days, Marilla. I guess she’ll need something more than Avonlea school by and by.’
“现在，我为她感到骄傲，在她上楼之前我确实告诉了她，”马修说。 “我们必须看看这些天能为她做些什么，玛丽拉。我想她很快就会需要比埃文利学校更多的东西。

‘There’s time enough to think of that,’ said Marilla. ‘She’s only thirteen in March. Though tonight it struck me she was growing quite a big girl. Mrs. Lynde made that dress a mite too long, and it makes Anne look so tall. She’s quick to learn and I guess the best thing we can do for her will be to send her to Queen’s after a spell. But nothing need be said about that for a year or two yet.’
“有足够的时间考虑这一点，”玛丽拉说。 “三月份她才十三岁。”尽管今晚让我震惊的是她已经成长为一个大女孩了。林德夫人把那件衣服做得有点太长了，这让安妮看起来很高。她学东西很快，我想我们能为她做的最好的事情就是在一段时间后将她送到女王大学。但一两年内还不需要对此说什么。”

‘Well now, it’ll do no harm to be thinking it over off and on,’ said Matthew. ‘Things like that are all the better for lots of thinking over.’
“好吧，断断续续地思考一下也没什么坏处，”马修说。 “这样的事情经过深思熟虑会更好。”

Chapter XXVI
第二十六章


The Story Club Is Formed
故事俱乐部成立

Junior Avonlea found it hard to settle down to humdrum existence again. To Anne in particular things seemed fearfully flat, stale, and unprofitable after the goblet of excitement she had been sipping for weeks. Could she go back to the former quiet pleasures of those faraway days before the concert? At first, as she told Diana, she did not really think she could.
小埃冯利发现很难再次安定下来过单调的生活。尤其是对安妮来说，在她喝了几个星期的兴奋之杯之后，一切似乎都极其平淡、陈旧、无利可图。她还能回到演唱会前那段遥远的日子里的安静快乐吗？起初，正如她告诉戴安娜的那样，她真的认为自己做不到。

‘I’m positively certain, Diana, that life can never be quite the same again as it was in those olden days,’ she said mournfully, as if referring to a period of at least fifty years back. ‘Perhaps after a while I’ll get used to it, but I’m afraid concerts spoil people for everyday life. I suppose that is why Marilla disapproves of them. Marilla is such a sensible woman. It must be a great deal better to be sensible; but still, I don’t believe I’d really want to be a sensible person, because they are so unromantic. Mrs. Lynde says there is no danger of my ever being one, but you can never tell. I feel just now that I may grow up to be sensible yet. But perhaps that is only because I’m tired. I simply couldn’t sleep last night for ever so long. I just lay awake and imagined the concert over and over again. That’s one splendid thing about such affairs—it’s so lovely to look back to them.’
“我确信，戴安娜，生活再也不会像以前那样了，”她悲伤地说，仿佛指的是至少五十年前的一段时光。 “也许过一段时间我就会习惯，但我担心音乐会会破坏人们的日常生活。我想这就是玛丽拉不赞成他们的原因。玛丽拉是个很懂事的女人。明智一点一定会好得多。但我仍然不相信我真的想成为一个明智的人，因为他们太不浪漫了。林德夫人说我不会有成为其中一员的危险，但你永远无法判断。我现在感觉我可能已经长大懂事了。但也许那只是因为我累了。昨晚我简直无法入睡这么久。我躺在床上，一遍又一遍地想象着这场音乐会。这是此类事件的一件美妙的事情——回顾它们真是太可爱了。

Eventually, however, Avonlea school slipped back into its old groove and took up its old interests. To be sure, the concert left traces. Ruby Gillis and Emma White, who had quarreled over a point of precedence in their platform seats, no longer sat at the same desk, and a promising friendship of three years was broken up. Josie Pye and Julia Bell did not ‘speak’ for three months, because Josie Pye had told Bessie Wright that Julia Bell’s bow when she got up to recite made her think of a chicken jerking its head, and Bessie told Julia. None of the Sloanes would have any dealings with the Bells, because the Bells had declared that the Sloanes had too much to do in the program, and the Sloanes had retorted that the Bells were not capable of doing the little they had to do properly. Finally, Charlie Sloane fought Moody Spurgeon MacPherson, because Moody Spurgeon had said that Anne Shirley put on airs about her recitations, and Moody Spurgeon was ‘licked”; consequently Moody Spurgeon’s sister, Ella May, would not ‘speak’ to Anne Shirley all the rest of the winter. With the exception of these trifling frictions, work in Miss Stacy’s little kingdom went on with regularity and smoothness.
然而，最终，埃文利学校又回到了原来的轨道，并恢复了原来的兴趣。可以肯定的是，音乐会留下了痕迹。鲁比·吉利斯（Ruby Gillis）和艾玛·怀特（Emma White）曾在站台座位上为优先权发生争执，但他们不再坐在同一张桌子上，三年来充满希望的友谊也因此破裂。乔西·派伊和朱莉娅·贝尔已经三个月没有“说话”了，因为乔西·派伊告诉贝西·赖特，朱莉娅·贝尔起身背诵时的鞠躬让她想起一只鸡在摇头，贝西告诉朱莉娅。斯隆家族中没有人会与贝尔家族有任何来往，因为贝尔家族宣称斯隆家族在计划中要做的事情太多，而斯隆家族反驳说贝尔家族没有能力做好他们必须做的那一点点事情。最后，查理·斯隆与穆迪·司布真·麦克弗森对战，因为穆迪·司布真曾说过安妮·雪莉在她的朗诵上摆架子，穆迪·司布真被“舔了”；因此，穆迪·司布真的妹妹埃拉·梅在整个冬天都不会和安妮·雪莉“说话”。除了这些琐碎的摩擦之外，史黛西小姐的小王国里的工作都进行得有规律、顺利。

The winter weeks slipped by. It was an unusually mild winter, with so little snow that Anne and Diana could go to school nearly every day by way of the Birch Path. On Anne’s birthday they were tripping lightly down it, keeping eyes and ears alert amid all their chatter, for Miss Stacy had told them that they must soon write a composition on ‘A Winter’s Walk in the Woods,’ and it behooved them to be observant.
冬天的几周过去了。那是一个异常温和的冬天，雪很少，安妮和戴安娜几乎每天都可以取道桦树路去上学。安妮生日那天，他们轻轻地走在上面，在他们的喋喋不休中保持眼睛和耳朵的警惕，因为史黛西小姐告诉他们，他们必须很快写一篇关于“冬天的树林里散步”的作文，他们应该保持敏锐的观察力。

‘Just think, Diana, I’m thirteen years old today,’ remarked Anne in an awed voice. ‘I can scarcely realize that I’m in my teens. When I woke this morning it seemed to me that everything must be different. You’ve been thirteen for a month, so I suppose it doesn’t seem such a novelty to you as it does to me. It makes life seem so much more interesting. In two more years I’ll be really grown up. It’s a great comfort to think that I’ll be able to use big words then without being laughed at.’
“想一想，戴安娜，我今天十三岁了，”安妮用敬畏的声音说道。 “我几乎意识不到自己已经十几岁了。今天早上我醒来时，我觉得一切都不同了。你已经十三岁了一个月了，所以我想这对你来说并不像对我那么新鲜。它让生活显得更加有趣。再过两年我就真的长大了。想到那时我将能够使用大词而不被嘲笑，我感到非常安慰。”

‘Ruby Gillis says she means to have a beau as soon as she’s fifteen,’ said Diana.
“鲁比·吉利斯说她一到十五岁就打算找一个男朋友，”戴安娜说。

‘Ruby Gillis thinks of nothing but beaus,’ said Anne disdainfully. ‘She’s actually delighted when anyone writes her name up in a take-notice for all she pretends to be so mad. But I’m afraid that is an uncharitable speech. Mrs. Allan says we should never make uncharitable speeches; but they do slip out so often before you think, don’t they? I simply can’t talk about Josie Pye without making an uncharitable speech, so I never mention her at all. You may have noticed that. I’m trying to be as much like Mrs. Allan as I possibly can, for I think she’s perfect. Mr. Allan thinks so too. Mrs. Lynde says he just worships the ground she treads on and she doesn’t really think it right for a minister to set his affections so much on a mortal being. But then, Diana, even ministers are human and have their besetting sins just like everybody else. I had such an interesting talk with Mrs. Allan about besetting sins last Sunday afternoon. There are just a few things it’s proper to talk about on Sundays and that is one of them. My besetting sin is imagining too much and forgetting my duties. I’m striving very hard to overcome it and now that I’m really thirteen perhaps I’ll get on better.’
“鲁比·吉利斯只想着情人。”安妮轻蔑地说。 “当有人把她的名字写在记事本上时，她真的很高兴，因为她假装很生气。但我担心这是一次无情的演讲。艾伦夫人说我们永远不应该发表无情的演讲；但它们确实经常在你想到之前溜走，不是吗？我根本无法在不发表无情演讲的情况下谈论乔西·派伊，所以我根本没有提到她。您可能已经注意到了。我正在努力尽可能地像艾伦夫人，因为我认为她是完美的。艾伦先生也这么认为。林德夫人说，他只是崇拜她所踏过的土地，她认为牧师将如此多的感情寄托在凡人身上是不正确的。但是，戴安娜，即使牧师也是人，也和其他人一样有自己的罪孽。上周日下午，我与艾伦夫人就罪恶的困扰进行了一次非常有趣的谈话。周日有几件事是适合谈论的，这就是其中之一。我的罪孽是想象太多而忘记了我的职责。我正在非常努力地克服它，现在我已经十三岁了，也许我会过得更好。”

‘In four more years we’ll be able to put our hair up,’ said Diana. ‘Alice Bell is only sixteen and she is wearing hers up, but I think that’s ridiculous. I shall wait until I’m seventeen.’
“再过四年，我们就能把头发盘起来了，”戴安娜说。 “爱丽丝·贝尔只有十六岁，但她已经把自己的衣服穿坏了，但我认为这很荒谬。我要等到十七岁。

‘If I had Alice Bell’s crooked nose,’ said Anne decidedly, ‘I wouldn’t—but there! I won’t say what I was going to because it was extremely uncharitable. Besides, I was comparing it with my own nose and that’s vanity. I’m afraid I think too much about my nose ever since I heard that compliment about it long ago. It really is a great comfort to me. Oh, Diana, look, there’s a rabbit. That’s something to remember for our woods composition. I really think the woods are just as lovely in winter as in summer. They’re so white and still, as if they were asleep and dreaming pretty dreams.’
“如果我有爱丽丝·贝尔那样的歪鼻子，”安妮坚决地说，“我就不会——但是就是这样！”我不会说我要去做什么，因为这是非常不仁慈的。而且，我是用自己的鼻子来比较，那是虚荣心。自从我很久以前听到关于我的鼻子的赞美以来，我担心我对我的鼻子想得太多了。这对我来说确实是一个很大的安慰。哦，戴安娜，看，有一只兔子。对于我们的木材成分来说，这是值得记住的事情。我真的认为树林冬天和夏天一样可爱。它们如此苍白，一动不动，仿佛睡着了，正在做着美丽的梦。”

‘I won’t mind writing that composition when its time comes,’ sighed Diana. ‘I can manage to write about the woods, but the one we’re to hand in Monday is terrible. The idea of Miss Stacy telling us to write a story out of our own heads!’
“我不介意到时候写那篇文章，”戴安娜叹了口气。 “我可以写一些关于树林的文章，但是我们周一要提交的那篇很糟糕。史黛西小姐告诉我们用自己的头脑写一个故事！”

‘Why, it’s as easy as wink,’ said Anne.
“啊，这就像眨眼一样简单，”安妮说。

‘It’s easy for you because you have an imagination,’ retorted Diana, ‘but what would you do if you had been born without one? I suppose you have your composition all done?’
“这对你来说很容易，因为你有想象力，”戴安娜反驳道，“但如果你生来就没有想象力，你会怎么做？我想你的作文都写完了吧？

Anne nodded, trying hard not to look virtuously complacent and failing miserably.
安妮点点头，努力不让自己看起来显得自满自满，但失败得很惨。

‘I wrote it last Monday evening. It’s called ‘The Jealous Rival; or In Death Not Divided.’ I read it to Marilla and she said it was stuff and nonsense. Then I read it to Matthew and he said it was fine. That is the kind of critic I like. It’s a sad, sweet story. I just cried like a child while I was writing it. It’s about two beautiful maidens called Cordelia Montmorency and Geraldine Seymour who lived in the same village and were devotedly attached to each other. Cordelia was a regal brunette with a coronet of midnight hair and duskly flashing eyes. Geraldine was a queenly blonde with hair like spun gold and velvety purple eyes.’
“我上周一晚上写的。它的名字叫《嫉妒的对手；我把它读给玛丽拉听，她说这是胡说八道。然后我把它读给马修听，他说很好。这就是我喜欢的批评家。这是一个悲伤又甜蜜的故事。当我写这篇文章的时候，我就像个孩子一样哭了。这是关于两个美丽的少女科迪莉亚·蒙莫朗西和杰拉尔丁·西摩的故事，她们住在同一个村庄，彼此忠诚。科迪莉亚是一位高贵的黑发女郎，有着一顶午夜般的头发和一双闪烁着昏暗光芒的眼睛。杰拉尔丁是一位女王般的金发女郎，有着金丝般的头发和天鹅绒般的紫色眼睛。

‘I never saw anybody with purple eyes,’ said Diana dubiously.
“我从来没见过有紫色眼睛的人，”戴安娜怀疑地说。

‘Neither did I. I just imagined them. I wanted something out of the common. Geraldine had an alabaster brow too. I’ve found out what an alabaster brow is. That is one of the advantages of being thirteen. You know so much more than you did when you were only twelve.’
“我也没有。我只是想象它们。”我想要一些不寻常的东西。杰拉尔丁也有雪花石膏般的眉毛。我知道什么是雪花石膏眉毛。这是十三岁的优势之一。你比十二岁时知道的要多得多。”

‘Well, what became of Cordelia and Geraldine?’ asked Diana, who was beginning to feel rather interested in their fate.
“那么，科迪莉亚和杰拉尔丁怎么样了？”黛安娜问道，她开始对他们的命运很感兴趣。

‘They grew in beauty side by side until they were sixteen. Then Bertram DeVere came to their native village and fell in love with the fair Geraldine. He saved her life when her horse ran away with her in a carriage, and she fainted in his arms and he carried her home three miles; because, you understand, the carriage was all smashed up. I found it rather hard to imagine the proposal because I had no experience to go by. I asked Ruby Gillis if she knew anything about how men proposed because I thought she’d likely be an authority on the subject, having so many sisters married. Ruby told me she was hid in the hall pantry when Malcolm Andres proposed to her sister Susan. She said Malcolm told Susan that his dad had given him the farm in his own name and then said, ‘What do you say, darling pet, if we get hitched this fall?’ And Susan said, ‘Yes—no—I don’t know—let me see’—and there they were, engaged as quick as that. But I didn’t think that sort of a proposal was a very romantic one, so in the end I had to imagine it out as well as I could. I made it very flowery and poetical and Bertram went on his knees, although Ruby Gillis says it isn’t done nowadays. Geraldine accepted him in a speech a page long. I can tell you I took a lot of trouble with that speech. I rewrote it five times and I look upon it as my masterpiece. Bertram gave her a diamond ring and a ruby necklace and told her they would go to Europe for a wedding tour, for he was immensely wealthy. But then, alas, shadows began to darken over their path. Cordelia was secretly in love with Bertram herself and when Geraldine told her about the engagement she was simply furious, especially when she saw the necklace and the diamond ring. All her affection for Geraldine turned to bitter hate and she vowed that she should never marry Bertram. But she pretended to be Geraldine’s friend the same as ever. One evening they were standing on the bridge over a rushing turbulent stream and Cordelia, thinking they were alone, pushed Geraldine over the brink with a wild, mocking, ‘Ha, ha, ha.’ But Bertram saw it all and he at once plunged into the current, exclaiming, ‘I will save thee, my peerless Geraldine.’ But alas, he had forgotten he couldn’t swim, and they were both drowned, clasped in each other’s arms. Their bodies were washed ashore soon afterwards. They were buried in the one grave and their funeral was most imposing, Diana. It’s so much more romantic to end a story up with a funeral than a wedding. As for Cordelia, she went insane with remorse and was shut up in a lunatic asylum. I thought that was a poetical retribution for her crime.’
“他们一起美丽地成长，直到十六岁。后来伯特伦·德维尔来到了他们的家乡，并爱上了美丽的杰拉尔丁。当她的马带着她乘马车逃跑时，他救了她的命，她晕倒在他的怀里，他把她带回家三英里；因为，你明白，马车都被砸坏了。我发现很难想象这个建议，因为我没有经验可循。我问鲁比·吉利斯是否知道男人如何求婚，因为我认为她可能是这个问题的权威，因为有这么多姐妹结婚了。鲁比告诉我，当马尔科姆·安德烈斯向她的妹妹苏珊求婚时，她躲在大厅的食品储藏室里。她说马尔科姆告诉苏珊，他的父亲以自己的名义把农场给了他，然后说，“亲爱的宠物，如果我们今年秋天结婚，你觉得怎么样？”苏珊说，“是的——不——我不”我不知道——让我看看”——他们就在那里，就这么快就订婚了。但我不认为这种求婚是一个非常浪漫的求婚，所以最后我不得不尽我所能地想象它。我把它做得非常华丽和诗意，伯特伦跪下了，尽管鲁比·吉利斯说现在还没有这样做。杰拉尔丁在长达一页的演讲中接受了他。我可以告诉你，我在演讲中花了很多功夫。我重写了五次，我把它视为我的杰作。伯特伦送给她一枚钻戒和一条红宝石项链，并告诉她他们将去欧洲进行婚礼旅行，因为他非常富有。但随后，唉，他们的道路上的阴影开始变暗。科迪莉亚暗恋着伯特伦本人，当杰拉尔丁告诉她订婚的消息时，她非常愤怒，尤其是当她看到项链和钻戒时。 她对杰拉尔丁的所有感情都变成了苦涩的仇恨，她发誓永远不会嫁给伯特伦。但她一如既往地假装是杰拉尔丁的朋友。一天晚上，他们站在桥上，横跨一条湍急的溪流，科迪莉亚以为他们是孤独一人，于是狂野地嘲笑着杰拉尔丁，“哈，哈，哈。”但伯特伦看到了这一切，他立刻跳了下去。跳入水流中，大声喊道：“我会救你，我无与伦比的杰拉尔丁。”但可惜的是，他忘记了自己不会游泳，于是他们双双被淹死，互相拥抱着。他们的尸体很快就被冲上岸。他们被埋葬在一个坟墓里，他们的葬礼最为隆重，戴安娜。以葬礼结束故事比以婚礼结束要浪漫得多。至于科迪莉亚，她悔恨得发疯，被关进了疯人院。我认为这是对她的罪行的诗意的报应。’

‘How perfectly lovely!’ sighed Diana, who belonged to Matthew’s school of critics. ‘I don’t see how you can make up such thrilling things out of your own head, Anne. I wish my imagination was as good as yours.’
“多么可爱啊！”黛安娜感叹道，她属于马修的批评家。 “我不明白你怎么能凭自己的头脑编造出如此令人兴奋的事情，安妮。我希望我的想象力和你一样好。

‘It would be if you’d only cultivate it,’ said Anne cheeringly. ‘I’ve just thought of a plan, Diana. Let you and me have a story club all our own and write stories for practice. I’ll help you along until you can do them by yourself. You ought to cultivate your imagination, you know. Miss Stacy says so. Only we must take the right way. I told her about the Haunted Wood, but she said we went the wrong way about it in that.’
“只要你能培养它就好了。”安妮高兴地说。 “我刚刚想到了一个计划，戴安娜。让你和我拥有一个属于我们自己的故事俱乐部，并写故事进行练习。我会帮助你，直到你能自己完成。你应该培养你的想象力，你知道的。史黛西小姐这么说。只是我们必须走正确的路。我告诉她关于闹鬼森林的事，但她说我们在这方面走错了路。

This was how the story club came into existence. It was limited to Diana and Anne at first, but soon it was extended to include Jane Andrews and Ruby Gillis and one or two others who felt that their imaginations needed cultivating. No boys were allowed in it—although Ruby Gillis opined that their admission would make it more exciting—and each member had to produce one story a week.
这就是故事俱乐部的诞生。起初仅限于戴安娜和安妮，但很快就扩展到包括简·安德鲁斯和鲁比·吉利斯以及其他一两个觉得自己的想象力需要培养的人。不允许男孩参与——尽管鲁比·吉利斯认为男孩的加入会让故事变得更令人兴奋——而且每个成员必须每周创作一个故事。

‘It’s extremely interesting,’ Anne told Marilla. ‘Each girl has to read her story out loud and then we talk it over. We are going to keep them all sacredly and have them to read to our descendants. We each write under a nom-de-plume. Mine is Rosamond Montmorency. All the girls do pretty well. Ruby Gillis is rather sentimental. She puts too much lovemaking into her stories and you know too much is worse than too little. Jane never puts any because she says it makes her feel so silly when she had to read it out loud. Jane’s stories are extremely sensible. Then Diana puts too many murders into hers. She says most of the time she doesn’t know what to do with the people so she kills them off to get rid of them. I mostly always have to tell them what to write about, but that isn’t hard for I’ve millions of ideas.’
“这非常有趣，”安妮告诉玛丽拉。 “每个女孩都必须大声朗读她的故事，然后我们一起讨论。我们将神圣地保存它们，并让它们读给我们的后代听。我们每个人都以笔名写作。我的是罗莎蒙德·蒙莫朗西。所有的女孩都做得很好。鲁比·吉利斯相当感性。她在故事中加入了太多的做爱，你知道太多比太少更糟糕。简从来不放任何东西，因为她说当她不得不大声读出来时，这让她觉得很傻。简的故事非常有道理。然后戴安娜把太多的谋杀案归咎于她。她说大多数时候她不知道该怎么处理这些人，所以她杀了他们来摆脱他们。我通常总是必须告诉他们要写什么，但这并不难，因为我有数百万个想法。

‘I think this story-writing business is the foolishest yet,’ scoffed Marilla. ‘You’ll get a pack of nonsense into your heads and waste time that should be put on your lessons. Reading stories is bad enough but writing them is worse.’
“我认为这种写故事的行为是迄今为止最愚蠢的，”玛丽拉嘲笑道。 “你的脑子里会充斥着一堆废话，浪费了本该用来上课的时间。读故事已经够糟糕的了，但写故事更糟糕。”

‘But we’re so careful to put a moral into them all, Marilla,’ explained Anne. ‘I insist upon that. All the good people are rewarded and all the bad ones are suitably punished. I’m sure that must have a wholesome effect. The moral is the great thing. Mr. Allan says so. I read one of my stories to him and Mrs. Allan and they both agreed that the moral was excellent. Only they laughed in the wrong places. I like it better when people cry. Jane and Ruby almost always cry when I come to the pathetic parts. Diana wrote her Aunt Josephine about our club and her Aunt Josephine wrote back that we were to send her some of our stories. So we copied out four of our very best and sent them. Miss Josephine Barry wrote back that she had never read anything so amusing in her life. That kind of puzzled us because the stories were all very pathetic and almost everybody died. But I’m glad Miss Barry liked them. It shows our club is doing some good in the world. Mrs. Allan says that ought to be our object in everything. I do really try to make it my object but I forget so often when I’m having fun. I hope I shall be a little like Mrs. Allan when I grow up. Do you think there is any prospect of it, Marilla?’
“但我们非常小心地为他们所有人注入了寓意，玛丽拉，”安妮解释道。 “我坚持这一点。所有的好人都会得到奖励，所有的坏人都会受到适当的惩罚。我确信这一定会产生有益健康的效果。道德是伟大的事情。艾伦先生这么说。我给他和艾伦夫人读了我的一个故事，他们都一致认为这个故事的寓意非常好。只是他们笑错了地方。我更喜欢人们哭泣。当我谈到可悲的部分时，简和鲁比几乎总是哭。戴安娜给她的约瑟芬阿姨写了关于我们俱乐部的信息，她的约瑟芬阿姨回信说我们要向她发送一些我们的故事。因此，我们复制了四份最好的并发送给他们。约瑟芬·巴里小姐回信说，她一生中从未读过如此有趣的书。这让我们感到困惑，因为这些故事都很可悲，几乎每个人都死了。但我很高兴巴里小姐喜欢它们。这表明我们的俱乐部正在为世界做出一些好事。艾伦夫人说这应该成为我们一切事情的目标。我确实尝试把它作为我的目标，但当我玩得很开心时，我经常忘记。我希望长大后我能有点像艾伦夫人。你认为这有什么前景吗，玛丽拉？

‘I shouldn’t say there was a great deal’ was Marilla’s encouraging answer. ‘I’m sure Mrs. Allan was never such a silly, forgetful little girl as you are.’
“我不应该说有很多”，玛丽拉令人鼓舞的回答。 “我确信艾伦夫人从来都不是像你这样愚蠢、健忘的小女孩。”

‘No; but she wasn’t always so good as she is now either,’ said Anne seriously. ‘She told me so herself—that is, she said she was a dreadful mischief when she was a girl and was always getting into scrapes. I felt so encouraged when I heard that. Is it very wicked of me, Marilla, to feel encouraged when I hear that other people have been bad and mischievous? Mrs. Lynde says it is. Mrs. Lynde says she always feels shocked when she hears of anyone ever having been naughty, no matter how small they were. Mrs. Lynde says she once heard a minister confess that when he was a boy he stole a strawberry tart out of his aunt’s pantry and she never had any respect for that minister again. Now, I wouldn’t have felt that way. I’d have thought that it was real noble of him to confess it, and I’d have thought what an encouraging thing it would be for small boys nowadays who do naughty things and are sorry for them to know that perhaps they may grow up to be ministers in spite of it. That’s how I’d feel, Marilla.’
'不;但她也并不总是像现在这样优秀。”安妮认真地说。 “她亲自告诉我的——也就是说，她说她小时候是一个可怕的恶作剧，总是陷入困境。当我听到这个消息时，我感到很受鼓舞。玛丽拉，当我听说其他人很坏、很顽皮时，我就感到受到鼓舞，这是不是太邪恶了？林德夫人说是的。林德夫人说，当她听说有人淘气时，无论他们多小，她总是感到震惊。林德夫人说，她曾经听到一位牧师承认，当他还是个孩子的时候，他从姨妈的食品储藏室里偷了一个草莓馅饼，从此她再也没有尊重过那位牧师。现在，我不会有那样的感觉了。我本以为他承认这一点是非常高尚的，我本以为对于现在那些做顽皮事情的小男孩来说，如果他们知道也许他们可能会长大，那将是一件多么令人鼓舞的事情尽管如此，还是要当部长。这就是我的感受，玛丽拉。”

‘The way I feel at present, Anne,’ said Marilla, ‘is that it’s high time you had those dishes washed. You’ve taken half an hour longer than you should with all your chattering. Learn to work first and talk afterwards.’
“我现在的感觉是，安妮，”玛丽拉说，“是时候该把那些盘子洗了。”你的喋喋不休比应有的时间多了半个小时。学会先工作，然后再说话。”

Chapter XXVII
第二十七章


Vanity and Vexation of Spirit
虚荣与精神烦恼

Marilla, walking home one late April evening from an Aid meeting, realized that the winter was over and gone with the thrill of delight that spring never fails to bring to the oldest and saddest as well as to the youngest and merriest. Marilla was not given to subjective analysis of her thoughts and feelings. She probably imagined that she was thinking about the Aids and their missionary box and the new carpet for the vestry room, but under these reflections was a harmonious consciousness of red fields smoking into pale-purply mists in the declining sun, of long, sharp-pointed fir shadows falling over the meadow beyond the brook, of still, crimson-budded maples around a mirrorlike wood pool, of a wakening in the world and a stir of hidden pulses under the gray sod. The spring was abroad in the land and Marilla’s sober, middle-aged step was lighter and swifter because of its deep, primal gladness.
四月下旬的一个晚上，玛丽拉从一次援助会议走回家时，意识到冬天已经过去了，春天总是给最年长、最悲伤的人和最年轻、最快乐的人带来喜悦的兴奋。马里拉不喜欢对自己的想法和感受进行主观分析。她可能想象自己正在思考艾滋病、他们的传教士箱和礼拜室的新地毯，但在这些反射之下，是一种和谐的意识，红色的田野在夕阳下冒着烟，化成淡紫色的薄雾，长长的、锐利的——尖尖的冷杉树影落在小溪那边的草地上，映照着镜子般的木池周围静止的深红色芽枫树，映照着世界的苏醒，映照着灰色草皮下隐藏的脉动。大地春意盎然，马瑞拉中年人清醒的脚步变得更轻、更快，因为它充满了深沉的、原始的快乐。

Her eyes dwelt affectionately on Green Gables, peering through its network of trees and reflecting the sunlight back from its windows in several little coruscations of glory. Marilla, as she picked her steps along the damp lane, thought that it was really a satisfaction to know that she was going home to a briskly snapping wood fire and a table nicely spread for tea, instead of to the cold comfort of old Aid meeting evenings before Anne had come to Green Gables.
她的目光深情地注视着绿山墙，透过树木的网络凝视着，将阳光从窗户反射回来，形成几道小小的光辉。玛丽拉沿着潮湿的小巷小心翼翼地迈着步伐，她想，知道自己要回家，面对着熊熊燃烧的柴火和摆好茶桌的家，而不是回到旧援助会议那种冰冷舒适的环境，这真是一种满足。安妮来到绿山墙的前几个晚上。

Consequently, when Marilla entered her kitchen and found the fire black out, with no sign of Anne anywhere, she felt justly disappointed and irritated. She had told Anne to be sure and have tea ready at five o’clock, but now she must hurry to take off her second-best dress and prepare the meal herself against Matthew’s return from plowing.
因此，当玛丽拉走进厨房，发现火已经灭了，安妮也不见踪影时，她感到失望和恼怒。她告诉安妮一定要在五点钟准备好茶，但现在她必须赶紧脱掉她那件第二好的衣服，自己准备饭菜，等待马修耕地回来。

‘I’ll settle Miss Anne when she comes home,’ said Marilla grimly, as she shaved up kindlings with a carving knife and with more vim than was strictly necessary. Matthew had come in and was waiting patiently for his tea in his corner. ‘She’s gadding off somewhere with Diana, writing stories or practicing dialogues or some such tomfoolery, and never thinking once about the time or her duties. She’s just got to be pulled up short and sudden on this sort of thing. I don’t care if Mrs. Allan does say she’s the brightest and sweetest child she ever knew. She may be bright and sweet enough, but her head is full of nonsense and there’s never any knowing what shape it’ll break out in next. Just as soon as she grows out of one freak she takes up with another. But there! Here I am saying the very thing I was so riled with Rachel Lynde for saying at the Aid today. I was real glad when Mrs. Allan spoke up for Anne, for if she hadn’t I know I’d have said something too sharp to Rachel before everybody. Anne’s got plenty of faults, goodness knows, and far be it from me to deny it. But I’m bringing her up and not Rachel Lynde, who’d pick faults in the Angel Gabriel himself if he lived in Avonlea. Just the same, Anne has no business to leave the house like this when I told her she was to stay home this afternoon and look after things. I must say, with all her faults, I never found her disobedient or untrustworthy before and I’m real sorry to find her so now.’
“等安妮小姐回家，我会解决她的问题。”玛丽拉冷酷地说，同时她用一把切肉刀削掉引火物，语气比严格必要的还要激烈。马修进来了，正在角落里耐心地等着喝茶。 “她和戴安娜一起去某个地方闲逛，写故事或练习对话或做一些类似的蠢事，从来没有考虑过时间或她的职责。在这种事情上，她必须被突然拉起来。我不在乎艾伦夫人是否说过她是她所认识的最聪明、最可爱的孩子。她也许足够聪明、足够可爱，但她的脑子里充满了废话，永远不知道接下来会变成什么形状。一旦她摆脱了一个怪胎，她就会爱上另一个怪胎。但是就在那里！我在这里说的正是雷切尔·林德今天在援助会上所说的话，让我非常愤怒。当艾伦夫人为安妮说话时，我真的很高兴，因为如果她不说话，我知道我会在大家面前对雷切尔说一些过于尖锐的话。天知道，安妮有很多缺点，我也无法否认这一点。但我是在抚养她，而不是雷切尔·林德，如果他住在埃文利，雷切尔·林德就会挑剔天使加百列本人的错误。同样，当我告诉安妮她今天下午要留在家里照顾东西时，她没有理由像这样离开家。我必须说，尽管她有种种缺点，但我以前从未发现她不听话或不值得信任，现在发现她如此，我真的很抱歉。

‘Well now, I dunno,’ said Matthew, who, being patient and wise and, above all, hungry, had deemed it best to let Marilla talk her wrath out unhindered, having learned by experience that she got through with whatever work was on hand much quicker if not delayed by untimely argument. ‘Perhaps you’re judging her too hasty, Marilla. Don’t call her untrustworthy until you’re sure she has disobeyed you. Mebbe it can all be explained—Anne’s a great hand at explaining.’
“好吧，我不知道，”马修说，他很有耐心，很聪明，最重要的是，她很饿，他认为最好让玛丽拉不受阻碍地发泄她的愤怒，因为从经验中她知道她已经完成了所有工作。如果没有因为不合时宜的争论而耽误的话，行动会更快。 “也许你对她的判断太仓促了，玛丽拉。在你确定她不服从你之前，不要说她不值得信任。也许这一切都可以解释——安妮很擅长解释。

‘She’s not here when I told her to stay,’ retorted Marilla. ‘I reckon she’ll find it hard to explain THAT to my satisfaction. Of course I knew you’d take her part, Matthew. But I’m bringing her up, not you.’
“当我让她留下来时，她并不在这里，”玛丽拉反驳道。 “我想她很难解释得令我满意。我当然知道你会支持她，马修。但我正在抚养她，而不是你。”

It was dark when supper was ready, and still no sign of Anne, coming hurriedly over the log bridge or up Lover’s Lane, breathless and repentant with a sense of neglected duties. Marilla washed and put away the dishes grimly. Then, wanting a candle to light her way down the cellar, she went up to the east gable for the one that generally stood on Anne’s table. Lighting it, she turned around to see Anne herself lying on the bed, face downward among the pillows.
晚饭准备好了，天已经黑了，安妮仍然没有踪影，她匆匆走过独木桥或情人巷，气喘吁吁，带着一种被忽视的责任感悔恨不已。玛丽拉洗完盘子，严肃地收起来。然后，她想要一支蜡烛照亮地窖里的路，于是她走到东山墙去拿安妮桌子上通常放的那根蜡烛。点着灯，她转过身，看到安妮自己躺在床上，脸朝下埋在枕头里。

‘Mercy on us,’ said astonished Marilla, ‘have you been asleep, Anne?’
“可怜我们吧，”玛丽拉惊讶地说，“安妮，你睡着了吗？”

‘No,’ was the muffled reply.
“不，”他低声回答。

‘Are you sick then?’ demanded Marilla anxiously, going over to the bed.
“那你生病了吗？”玛丽拉走到床边焦急地问道。

Anne cowered deeper into her pillows as if desirous of hiding herself forever from mortal eyes.
安妮更加蜷缩在枕头里，仿佛渴望永远隐藏自己，避开凡人的目光。

‘No. But please, Marilla, go away and don’t look at me. I’m in the depths of despair and I don’t care who gets head in class or writes the best composition or sings in the Sunday-school choir any more. Little things like that are of no importance now because I don’t suppose I’ll ever be able to go anywhere again. My career is closed. Please, Marilla, go away and don’t look at me.’
'不。但是玛丽拉，请走开，不要看着我。我陷入了绝望的深渊，我不再关心谁在课堂上领先，谁写了最好的作文，谁在主日学校唱诗班唱歌。像这样的小事现在已经不重要了，因为我想我再也不能去任何地方了。我的职业生涯已经结束了。求你了，玛丽拉，走开，别看我。”

‘Did anyone ever hear the like?’ the mystified Marilla wanted to know. ‘Anne Shirley, whatever is the matter with you? What have you done? Get right up this minute and tell me. This minute, I say. There now, what is it?’
“有人听过类似的话吗？”困惑的玛丽拉想知道。 “安妮·雪莉，你怎么了？你做了什么？马上起来告诉我。我说，就在这一分钟。现在，这是什么？

Anne had slid to the floor in despairing obedience.
安妮绝望地顺从地滑到了地板上。

‘Look at my hair, Marilla,’ she whispered.
“看看我的头发，玛丽拉，”她低声说道。

Accordingly, Marilla lifted her candle and looked scrutinizingly at Anne’s hair, flowing in heavy masses down her back. It certainly had a very strange appearance.
于是，玛丽拉举起了蜡烛，仔细地看着安妮的头发，浓密的头发从她的背上垂下来。它的外观确实非常奇怪。

‘Anne Shirley, what have you done to your hair? Why, it’s GREEN!’
“安妮雪莉，你对你的头发做了什么？为什么，它是绿色的！

Green it might be called, if it were any earthly color—a queer, dull, bronzy green, with streaks here and there of the original red to heighten the ghastly effect. Never in all her life had Marilla seen anything so grotesque as Anne’s hair at that moment.
如果它是任何地球上的颜色的话，它可以被称为绿色——一种奇怪的、暗淡的、古铜色的绿色，到处都有原来的红色条纹，以增强可怕的效果。玛丽拉一生中从未见过像安妮的头发那样怪异的东西。

‘Yes, it’s green,’ moaned Anne. ‘I thought nothing could be as bad as red hair. But now I know it’s ten times worse to have green hair. Oh, Marilla, you little know how utterly wretched I am.’
“是的，它是绿色的，”安妮呻吟道。 “我认为没有什么比红头发更糟糕了。但现在我知道，绿头发的情况要糟糕十倍。哦，玛丽拉，你根本不知道我是多么可怜。

‘I little know how you got into this fix, but I mean to find out,’ said Marilla. ‘Come right down to the kitchen—it’s too cold up here—and tell me just what you’ve done. I’ve been expecting something queer for some time. You haven’t got into any scrape for over two months, and I was sure another one was due. Now, then, what did you do to your hair?’
“我不知道你是如何陷入这个困境的，但我想找出答案，”玛丽拉说。 “直接到厨房来吧——这里太冷了——告诉我你做了什么。一段时间以来，我一直在期待一些奇怪的事情。你已经两个多月没有遇到任何麻烦了，我确信还会有另一件事发生。那么，你对你的头发做了什么？

‘I dyed it.’
“我染了它。”

‘Dyed it! Dyed your hair! Anne Shirley, didn’t you know it was a wicked thing to do?’
‘染了！染头发啦！安妮·雪莉，你难道不知道这是一件邪恶的事情吗？

‘Yes, I knew it was a little wicked,’ admitted Anne. ‘But I thought it was worth while to be a little wicked to get rid of red hair. I counted the cost, Marilla. Besides, I meant to be extra good in other ways to make up for it.’
“是的，我知道这有点邪恶，”安妮承认。 “但我认为为了摆脱红头发而稍微邪恶一点是值得的。我算过成本了，玛丽拉。此外，我还想在其他方面做得特别好来弥补这一点。”

‘Well,’ said Marilla sarcastically, ‘if I’d decided it was worth while to dye my hair I’d have dyed it a decent color at least. I wouldn’t have dyed it green.’
“好吧，”玛丽拉讽刺地说，“如果我认为值得染头发，我至少会把它染成像样的颜色。我不会把它染成绿色。

‘But I didn’t mean to dye it green, Marilla,’ protested Anne dejectedly. ‘If I was wicked I meant to be wicked to some purpose. He said it would turn my hair a beautiful raven black—he positively assured me that it would. How could I doubt his word, Marilla? I know what it feels like to have your word doubted. And Mrs. Allan says we should never suspect anyone of not telling us the truth unless we have proof that they’re not. I have proof now—green hair is proof enough for anybody. But I hadn’t then and I believed every word he said IMPLICITLY.’
“但我并不是故意把它染成绿色的，玛丽拉，”安妮沮丧地抗议道。 “如果我是邪恶的，那我就意味着为了某种目的而邪恶。他说这会让我的头发变成美丽的乌黑——他向我保证一定会的。我怎么能怀疑他的话呢，玛丽拉？我知道你的话受到质疑是什么感觉。艾伦夫人说，我们永远不应该怀疑任何人没有告诉我们真相，除非我们有证据证明他们没有告诉我们真相。我现在有证据了——绿头发对任何人来说都足以证明。但当时我还没有，我相信他说的每一句话。

‘Who said? Who are you talking about?’
'谁说？你在说谁？

‘The peddler that was here this afternoon. I bought the dye from him.’
“今天下午来的那个小贩。我从他那里买了染料。”

‘Anne Shirley, how often have I told you never to let one of those Italians in the house! I don’t believe in encouraging them to come around at all.’
“安妮·雪莉，我告诉过你多少次了，永远不要让那些意大利人进屋！”我根本不相信鼓励他们回心转意。

‘Oh, I didn’t let him in the house. I remembered what you told me, and I went out, carefully shut the door, and looked at his things on the step. Besides, he wasn’t an Italian—he was a German Jew. He had a big box full of very interesting things and he told me he was working hard to make enough money to bring his wife and children out from Germany. He spoke so feelingly about them that it touched my heart. I wanted to buy something from him to help him in such a worthy object. Then all at once I saw the bottle of hair dye. The peddler said it was warranted to dye any hair a beautiful raven black and wouldn’t wash off. In a trice I saw myself with beautiful raven-black hair and the temptation was irresistible. But the price of the bottle was seventy-five cents and I had only fifty cents left out of my chicken money. I think the peddler had a very kind heart, for he said that, seeing it was me, he’d sell it for fifty cents and that was just giving it away. So I bought it, and as soon as he had gone I came up here and applied it with an old hairbrush as the directions said. I used up the whole bottle, and oh, Marilla, when I saw the dreadful color it turned my hair I repented of being wicked, I can tell you. And I’ve been repenting ever since.’
“噢，我没让他进屋。”我记住了你告诉我的话，然后我走出去，小心地关上门，看着台阶上他的东西。此外，他不是意大利人，而是德国犹太人。他有一个大盒子，里面装满了非常有趣的东西，他告诉我，他正在努力工作，赚足够的钱，把他的妻子和孩子从德国带出来。他如此深情地谈论他们，触动了我的心。我想从他那里买一些东西来帮助他完成这么有价值的事情。然后我突然看到了那瓶染发剂。小贩说，把头发染成漂亮的乌黑色是有道理的，而且洗不掉。刹那间，我看到了自己有一头美丽的乌黑头发，这种诱惑是不可抗拒的。但这瓶酒的价格是七十五美分，而我的鸡钱只剩下五十美分了。我觉得那个小贩的心肠很善良，他说看是我就卖五十美分，简直是送人了。所以我买了它，他一走我就来到这里，按照说明用一把旧发刷涂抹它。我用完了整瓶，哦，玛丽拉，当我看到它让我的头发变成可怕的颜色时，我后悔自己的邪恶，我可以告诉你。从那时起我就一直在悔改。

‘Well, I hope you’ll repent to good purpose,’ said Marilla severely, ‘and that you’ve got your eyes opened to where your vanity has led you, Anne. Goodness knows what’s to be done. I suppose the first thing is to give your hair a good washing and see if that will do any good.’
“好吧，我希望你能够善意地悔改，”玛丽拉严肃地说，“并且你要睁大眼睛，看看你的虚荣心把你引向了何方，安妮。天知道要做什么。我想第一件事就是好好洗一下头发，看看是否有效果。

Accordingly, Anne washed her hair, scrubbing it vigorously with soap and water, but for all the difference it made she might as well have been scouring its original red. The peddler had certainly spoken the truth when he declared that the dye wouldn’t wash off, however his veracity might be impeached in other respects.
因此，安妮洗了头发，用肥皂和水用力擦洗，但尽管如此，她还不如洗掉原来的红色。当小贩宣称染料洗不掉时，他确实说的是实话，但他的真实性可能会在其他方面受到质疑。

‘Oh, Marilla, what shall I do?’ questioned Anne in tears. ‘I can never live this down. People have pretty well forgotten my other mistakes—the liniment cake and setting Diana drunk and flying into a temper with Mrs. Lynde. But they’ll never forget this. They will think I am not respectable. Oh, Marilla, ‘what a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive.’ That is poetry, but it is true. And oh, how Josie Pye will laugh! Marilla, I CANNOT face Josie Pye. I am the unhappiest girl in Prince Edward Island.’
“哦，玛丽拉，我该怎么办？”安妮泪流满面地问道。 “我永远无法忍受这一切。人们几乎已经忘记了我的其他错误——搽剂蛋糕、让戴安娜喝醉、对林德夫人发脾气。但他们永远不会忘记这一点。他们会认为我不值得尊敬。哦，玛丽拉，“当我们第一次练习欺骗时，我们编织了一张多么混乱的网。”这是诗，但这是真的。哦，乔西·派伊会笑得多么开心啊！玛丽拉，我无法面对乔西·派伊。我是爱德华王子岛最不快乐的女孩。”

Anne’s unhappiness continued for a week. During that time she went nowhere and shampooed her hair every day. Diana alone of outsiders knew the fatal secret, but she promised solemnly never to tell, and it may be stated here and now that she kept her word. At the end of the week Marilla said decidedly:
安妮的不开心持续了一个星期。那段时间她哪儿也不去，每天都洗头。外人中只有戴安娜知道这个致命的秘密，但她郑重承诺永远不会说出去，现在可以说她信守诺言。周末，玛丽拉斩钉截铁地说：

‘It’s no use, Anne. That is fast dye if ever there was any. Your hair must be cut off; there is no other way. You can’t go out with it looking like that.’
‘这没有用，安妮。如果有的话，那就是快速染料。你的头发必须剪掉；没有其他办法。你不能穿着这样的衣服出去。

Anne’s lips quivered, but she realized the bitter truth of Marilla’s remarks. With a dismal sigh she went for the scissors.
安妮的嘴唇颤抖着，但她意识到玛丽拉话里的苦涩事实。她沮丧地叹了口气，去拿剪刀。

‘Please cut it off at once, Marilla, and have it over. Oh, I feel that my heart is broken. This is such an unromantic affliction. The girls in books lose their hair in fevers or sell it to get money for some good deed, and I’m sure I wouldn’t mind losing my hair in some such fashion half so much. But there is nothing comforting in having your hair cut off because you’ve dyed it a dreadful color, is there? I’m going to weep all the time you’re cutting it off, if it won’t interfere. It seems such a tragic thing.’
“请立即把它剪掉，玛丽拉，结束这一切。”唉，我感觉我的心都碎了。这是一种多么不浪漫的痛苦啊。书里的女孩会因为发烧而掉头发，或者卖掉头发来换取一些善行的钱，我确信我不介意以这种方式掉一半的头发。但因为你把头发染成了难看的颜色而被剪掉，这并没有什么令人安慰的，不是吗？如果你不打扰的话，我会在你切断它的时候一直哭泣。这似乎是一件悲惨的事情。

Anne wept then, but later on, when she went upstairs and looked in the glass, she was calm with despair. Marilla had done her work thoroughly and it had been necessary to shingle the hair as closely as possible. The result was not becoming, to state the case as mildly as may be. Anne promptly turned her glass to the wall.
安妮当时哭了，但后来，当她上楼看着镜子时，她因绝望而平静下来。玛丽拉已经彻底完成了她的工作，有必要将头发尽可能紧密地叠起来。尽可能温和地说，结果并不合适。安妮立即把杯子转向墙壁。

‘I’ll never, never look at myself again until my hair grows,’ she exclaimed passionately.
“在我的头发长出来之前，我永远、永远不会再看自己，”她热情地喊道。

Then she suddenly righted the glass.
然后她突然扶正了玻璃。

‘Yes, I will, too. I’d do penance for being wicked that way. I’ll look at myself every time I come to my room and see how ugly I am. And I won’t try to imagine it away, either. I never thought I was vain about my hair, of all things, but now I know I was, in spite of its being red, because it was so long and thick and curly. I expect something will happen to my nose next.’
‘是的，我也会的。我会为那样的邪恶而忏悔。每次我来到自己的房间，我都会看看自己，看看自己有多丑。我也不会试图想象它消失。我从来没有想过我对自己的头发感到自负，但现在我知道我是自负的，尽管它是红色的，因为它又长又密又卷曲。我预计接下来我的鼻子会发生一些事情。

Anne’s clipped head made a sensation in school on the following Monday, but to her relief nobody guessed the real reason for it, not even Josie Pye, who, however, did not fail to inform Anne that she looked like a perfect scarecrow.
接下来的周一，安妮的头被剪掉，在学校引起了轰动，但令她松了一口气的是，没有人猜出真正的原因，甚至连乔西·派伊也猜不到，然而乔西·派伊却告诉安妮，她看起来就像一个完美的稻草人。

‘I didn’t say anything when Josie said that to me,’ Anne confided that evening to Marilla, who was lying on the sofa after one of her headaches, ‘because I thought it was part of my punishment and I ought to bear it patiently. It’s hard to be told you look like a scarecrow and I wanted to say something back. But I didn’t. I just swept her one scornful look and then I forgave her. It makes you feel very virtuous when you forgive people, doesn’t it? I mean to devote all my energies to being good after this and I shall never try to be beautiful again. Of course it’s better to be good. I know it is, but it’s sometimes so hard to believe a thing even when you know it. I do really want to be good, Marilla, like you and Mrs. Allan and Miss Stacy, and grow up to be a credit to you. Diana says when my hair begins to grow to tie a black velvet ribbon around my head with a bow at one side. She says she thinks it will be very becoming. I will call it a snood—that sounds so romantic. But am I talking too much, Marilla? Does it hurt your head?’
“当乔西对我说这句话时，我什么也没说，”那天晚上，安妮向因头痛而躺在沙发上的玛丽拉吐露，“因为我认为这是对我的惩罚的一部分，我应该承受它。”耐心地。很难被人说你看起来像个稻草人，我想说点什么。但我没有。我只是轻蔑地看了她一眼，然后就原谅了她。当你宽恕别人时，你会觉得自己非常有道德，不是吗？我打算在这之后投入我所有的精力让自己变得更好，我再也不会尝试变得美丽了。当然，如果是优秀的就更好了。我知道是这样，但有时即使你知道一件事，也很难相信。我真的很想成为一个好人，玛丽拉，就像你、艾伦夫人和史黛西小姐一样，长大后为你争光。戴安娜说，当我的头发开始生长时，用一条黑色天鹅绒丝带系在我的头上，一侧打一个蝴蝶结。她说她认为这会非常合适。我称之为围脖——听起来很浪漫。但我是不是说太多了，玛丽​​拉？你的头疼吗？

‘My head is better now. It was terrible bad this afternoon, though. These headaches of mine are getting worse and worse. I’ll have to see a doctor about them. As for your chatter, I don’t know that I mind it—I’ve got so used to it.’
“我的头现在好多了。不过，今天下午的情况非常糟糕。我的这些头痛越来越严重。我得去看医生。至于你的喋喋不休，我不知道我介意——我已经习惯了。

Which was Marilla’s way of saying that she liked to hear it.
这是玛丽拉表达她喜欢听的方式。

Chapter XXVIII
第二十八章


An Unfortunate Lily Maid
不幸的百合女仆

OF course you must be Elaine, Anne,’ said Diana. ‘I could never have the courage to float down there.’
当然，你一定是伊莱恩，安妮，”戴安娜说。 “我永远没有勇气漂到那里去。”

‘Nor I,’ said Ruby Gillis, with a shiver. ‘I don’t mind floating down when there’s two or three of us in the flat and we can sit up. It’s fun then. But to lie down and pretend I was dead—I just couldn’t. I’d die really of fright.’
“我也一样，”鲁比·吉利斯颤抖着说道。 “当我们有两三个人在公寓里并且我们可以坐起来时，我不介意漂浮下来。那很有趣。但躺下来假装我已经死了——我就是做不到。我真的会被吓死的。

‘Of course it would be romantic,’ conceded Jane Andrews, ‘but I know I couldn’t keep still. I’d be popping up every minute or so to see where I was and if I wasn’t drifting too far out. And you know, Anne, that would spoil the effect.’
“这当然很浪漫，”简·安德鲁斯承认，“但我知道我不能保持静止。我大约每隔一分钟就会出现一次，看看我在哪里，看看我是否偏离得太远。你知道，安妮，这会破坏效果。

‘But it’s so ridiculous to have a redheaded Elaine,’ mourned Anne. ‘I’m not afraid to float down and I’d love to be Elaine. But it’s ridiculous just the same. Ruby ought to be Elaine because she is so fair and has such lovely long golden hair— Elaine had ‘all her bright hair streaming down,’ you know. And Elaine was the lily maid. Now, a red-haired person cannot be a lily maid.’
“但是拥有一个红头发的伊莱恩真是太荒谬了，”安妮哀悼道。 “我不害怕飘落，我很想成为伊莱恩。但这同样荒谬。鲁比应该是伊莱恩，因为她很漂亮，有一头很可爱的金色长发——你知道，伊莱恩“所有明亮的头发都垂下来了”。而伊莱恩就是百合女仆。现在，红发的人不可能成为百合侍女。”

‘Your complexion is just as fair as Ruby’s,’ said Diana earnestly, ‘and your hair is ever so much darker than it used to be before you cut it.’
“你的肤色和鲁比一样白皙，”黛安娜认真地说，“你的头发比你剪头发之前要黑得多。”

‘Oh, do you really think so?’ exclaimed Anne, flushing sensitively with delight. ‘I’ve sometimes thought it was myself—but I never dared to ask anyone for fear she would tell me it wasn’t. Do you think it could be called auburn now, Diana?’
“哦，你真的这么认为吗？”安妮兴奋地惊呼，脸涨得通红。 “我有时以为是我自己——但我从来不敢问任何人，因为担心她会告诉我不是。”你认为它现在可以被称为赤褐色吗，戴安娜？

‘Yes, and I think it is real pretty,’ said Diana, looking admiringly at the short, silky curls that clustered over Anne’s head and were held in place by a very jaunty black velvet ribbon and bow.
“是的，我认为它真的很漂亮，”戴安娜说道，她钦佩地看着安妮头上簇拥着的短而丝滑的卷发，并由一条非常活泼的黑色天鹅绒丝带和蝴蝶结固定在适当的位置。

They were standing on the bank of the pond, below Orchard Slope, where a little headland fringed with birches ran out from the bank; at its tip was a small wooden platform built out into the water for the convenience of fishermen and duck hunters. Ruby and Jane were spending the midsummer afternoon with Diana, and Anne had come over to play with them.
他们站在果园坡下方的池塘岸边，岸边延伸出一片长满桦树的小海岬。它的顶端是一个伸入水中的小木平台，以方便渔民和猎鸭者。鲁比和简正在和戴安娜一起度过盛夏的下午，安妮过来和她们一起玩。

Anne and Diana had spent most of their playtime that summer on and about the pond. Idlewild was a thing of the past, Mr. Bell having ruthlessly cut down the little circle of trees in his back pasture in the spring. Anne had sat among the stumps and wept, not without an eye to the romance of it; but she was speedily consoled, for, after all, as she and Diana said, big girls of thirteen, going on fourteen, were too old for such childish amusements as playhouses, and there were more fascinating sports to be found about the pond. It was splendid to fish for trout over the bridge and the two girls learned to row themselves about in the little flat-bottomed dory Mr. Barry kept for duck shooting.
那年夏天，安妮和戴安娜大部分时间都在池塘边玩耍。艾德怀德已成为过去，贝尔先生在春天无情地砍伐了他后面牧场上的一小圈树木。安妮坐在树桩中间哭泣，她并非没有注意到其中的浪漫。但她很快就得到了安慰，因为毕竟，正如她和戴安娜所说，十三岁、十四岁的大女孩对于剧场这样的幼稚娱乐来说已经太老了，而且池塘边还有更有趣的运动可以找到。在桥上钓鳟鱼真是太棒了，两个女孩学会了在巴里先生为打鸭子而保留的小平底平底小平底渔船上划船。

It was Anne’s idea that they dramatize Elaine. They had studied Tennyson’s poem in school the preceding winter, the Superintendent of Education having prescribed it in the English course for the Prince Edward Island schools. They had analyzed and parsed it and torn it to pieces in general until it was a wonder there was any meaning at all left in it for them, but at least the fair lily maid and Lancelot and Guinevere and King Arthur had become very real people to them, and Anne was devoured by secret regret that she had not been born in Camelot. Those days, she said, were so much more romantic than the present.
他们把伊莱恩戏剧化是安妮的主意。去年冬天，他们在学校学习了丁尼生的诗，教育总监在爱德华王子岛学校的英语课程中规定了这首诗。他们对它进行了分析、剖析，并将其撕成碎片，直到他们惊奇地发现它对他们来说还有任何意义，但至少美丽的百合女仆、兰斯洛特、吉妮薇儿和亚瑟王已经成为非常真实的人了。安妮暗自后悔自己没有出生在卡米洛特。她说，那些日子比现在浪漫得多。

Anne’s plan was hailed with enthusiasm. The girls had discovered that if the flat were pushed off from the landing place it would drift down with the current under the bridge and finally strand itself on another headland lower down which ran out at a curve in the pond. They had often gone down like this and nothing could be more convenient for playing Elaine.
安妮的计划受到热烈欢迎。女孩们发现，如果公寓被从着陆点推开，它就会随着桥下的水流漂流下去，最后搁浅在另一个较低的岬角上，这个岬角在池塘的一个弯处延伸出去。他们经常这样倒下，没有什么比扮演伊莱恩更方便的了。

‘Well, I’ll be Elaine,’ said Anne, yielding reluctantly, for, although she would have been delighted to play the principal character, yet her artistic sense demanded fitness for it and this, she felt, her limitations made impossible. ‘Ruby, you must be King Arthur and Jane will be Guinevere and Diana must be Lancelot. But first you must be the brothers and the father. We can’t have the old dumb servitor because there isn’t room for two in the flat when one is lying down. We must pall the barge all its length in blackest samite. That old black shawl of your mother’s will be just the thing, Diana.’
“好吧，我会是伊莱恩，”安妮不情愿地屈服了，因为虽然她很乐意扮演主角，但她的艺术感要求适合它，而她觉得，她的局限性使得这一点变得不可能。 “鲁比，你一定是亚瑟王，简一定是格尼薇儿，戴安娜一定是兰斯洛特。”但首先你们必须是兄弟和父亲。我们不能有那个又老又笨的仆人，因为当一个人躺下时，公寓里就没有足够的空间容纳两个人了。我们必须用最黑的锦缎包裹驳船的全长。你母亲的那条旧黑围巾就是你想要的，戴安娜。

The black shawl having been procured, Anne spread it over the flat and then lay down on the bottom, with closed eyes and hands folded over her breast.
安妮把黑色围巾拿来，铺在公寓上，然后躺在床上，闭上眼睛，双手交叉放在胸前。

‘Oh, she does look really dead,’ whispered Ruby Gillis nervously, watching the still, white little face under the flickering shadows of the birches. ‘It makes me feel frightened, girls. Do you suppose it’s really right to act like this? Mrs. Lynde says that all play-acting is abominably wicked.’
“噢，她看起来确实死了。”鲁比·吉利斯紧张地低声说道，同时看着桦树摇曳的阴影下那张一动不动、惨白的小脸。 “这让我感到害怕，女孩们。你认为这样做真的正确吗？林德夫人说，所有的表演都是极其邪恶的。

‘Ruby, you shouldn’t talk about Mrs. Lynde,’ said Anne severely. ‘It spoils the effect because this is hundreds of years before Mrs. Lynde was born. Jane, you arrange this. It’s silly for Elaine to be talking when she’s dead.’
“鲁比，你不应该谈论林德夫人。”安妮严厉地说。 “这破坏了效果，因为这是林德夫人出生前的数百年。”简，你安排一下。伊莱恩死后还在说话，这太愚蠢了。”

Jane rose to the occasion. Cloth of gold for coverlet there was none, but an old piano scarf of yellow Japanese crepe was an excellent substitute. A white lily was not obtainable just then, but the effect of a tall blue iris placed in one of Anne’s folded hands was all that could be desired.
简挺身而出。没有金色的床罩，但黄色日本绉纱的旧钢琴围巾是一个很好的替代品。那时还买不到白百合，但安妮双手合十的那只高高的蓝色鸢尾花的效果已经足够了。

‘Now, she’s all ready,’ said Jane. ‘We must kiss her quiet brows and, Diana, you say, ‘Sister, farewell forever,’ and Ruby, you say, ‘Farewell, sweet sister,’ both of you as sorrowfully as you possibly can. Anne, for goodness sake smile a little. You know Elaine ‘lay as though she smiled.’ That’s better. Now push the flat off.’
“现在，她已经准备好了，”简说。 “我们必须亲吻她安静的眉毛，戴安娜，你说，‘姐妹，永远再见，’鲁比，你说，‘再见，亲爱的妹妹，’你们俩都尽可能地悲伤。安妮，看在上帝的份上，微笑一下。你知道伊莱恩“躺着的时候好像在微笑。”那就更好了。现在把公寓推开。

The flat was accordingly pushed off, scraping roughly over an old embedded stake in the process. Diana and Jane and Ruby only waited long enough to see it caught in the current and headed for the bridge before scampering up through the woods, across the road, and down to the lower headland where, as Lancelot and Guinevere and the King, they were to be in readiness to receive the lily maid.
公寓因此被推离，在此过程中粗略地刮过一根旧的嵌入木桩。戴安娜、简和鲁比只等了足够长的时间，就看到它被水流困住了，然后朝桥走去，然后蹦蹦跳跳地穿过树林，穿过马路，来到较低的岬角，就像兰斯洛特、格尼薇儿和国王一样，他们在那里准备迎接百合女仆。

For a few minutes Anne, drifting slowly down, enjoyed the romance of her situation to the full. Then something happened not at all romantic. The flat began to leak. In a very few moments it was necessary for Elaine to scramble to her feet, pick up her cloth of gold coverlet and pall of blackest samite and gaze blankly at a big crack in the bottom of her barge through which the water was literally pouring. That sharp stake at the landing had torn off the strip of batting nailed on the flat. Anne did not know this, but it did not take her long to realize that she was in a dangerous plight. At this rate the flat would fill and sink long before it could drift to the lower headland. Where were the oars? Left behind at the landing!
有几分钟的时间，安妮慢慢地飘落下来，充分享受着自己处境的浪漫。然后发生了一点也不浪漫的事情。公寓开始漏水。过了一会儿，伊莱恩就必须爬起来，拿起她的金色床单和最黑的锦缎，茫然地凝视着驳船底部的一条大裂缝，水确实从那里倾泻而出。楼梯平台上的那根锋利的木桩撕掉了钉在公寓上的棉条。安妮并不知道这一点，但她很快就意识到自己陷入了危险的困境。按照这个速度，平坦地带在漂流到较低的岬角之前就会被填满并下沉。桨在哪里？在着陆点被落在后面了！

Anne gave one gasping little scream which nobody ever heard; she was white to the lips, but she did not lose her self-possession. There was one chance—just one.
安妮喘息着发出一声无人听见的小声尖叫。她的嘴唇苍白，但她并没有失去冷静。机会只有一次——只有一次。

‘I was horribly frightened,’ she told Mrs. Allan the next day, ‘and it seemed like years while the flat was drifting down to the bridge and the water rising in it every moment. I prayed, Mrs. Allan, most earnestly, but I didn’t shut my eyes to pray, for I knew the only way God could save me was to let the flat float close enough to one of the bridge piles for me to climb up on it. You know the piles are just old tree trunks and there are lots of knots and old branch stubs on them. It was proper to pray, but I had to do my part by watching out and right well I knew it. I just said, ‘Dear God, please take the flat close to a pile and I’ll do the rest,’ over and over again. Under such circumstances you don’t think much about making a flowery prayer. But mine was answered, for the flat bumped right into a pile for a minute and I flung the scarf and the shawl over my shoulder and scrambled up on a big providential stub. And there I was, Mrs. Allan, clinging to that slippery old pile with no way of getting up or down. It was a very unromantic position, but I didn’t think about that at the time. You don’t think much about romance when you have just escaped from a watery grave. I said a grateful prayer at once and then I gave all my attention to holding on tight, for I knew I should probably have to depend on human aid to get back to dry land.’
“我吓坏了，”第二天她告诉艾伦太太，“那套公寓一直漂到桥上，里面的水每时每刻都在上涨，感觉就像过了好几年似的。”艾伦夫人，我非常真诚地祈祷，但我没有闭上眼睛祈祷，因为我知道上帝拯救我的唯一方法就是让公寓漂浮在离桥桩足够近的地方，以便我爬上去在上面。你知道这些堆只是老树干，上面有很多节和旧树枝桩。祈祷是正确的，但我必须通过警惕来尽自己的一份力量，我很清楚这一点。我只是一遍又一遍地说：“亲爱的上帝，请将公寓靠近一堆，我会做剩下的事情。”在这种情况下，你不会多想做出华丽的祈祷。但我的答案得到了回应，因为那间公寓一下子撞成了一堆，我把围巾和披肩扔到肩上，爬上一根天赐的大存根。艾伦太太，我就在那儿，紧紧抓住那堆滑溜溜的旧东西，无法上下。这是一个非常不浪漫的位置，但我当时并没有想到这一点。当你刚从水坟墓里逃出来时，你不会太多地考虑浪漫。我立刻做了一个感恩的祈祷，然后我集中精力紧紧抓住，因为我知道我可能必须依靠人类的援助才能回到陆地。

The flat drifted under the bridge and then promptly sank in midstream. Ruby, Jane, and Diana, already awaiting it on the lower headland, saw it disappear before their very eyes and had not a doubt but that Anne had gone down with it. For a moment they stood still, white as sheets, frozen with horror at the tragedy; then, shrieking at the tops of their voices, they started on a frantic run up through the woods, never pausing as they crossed the main road to glance the way of the bridge. Anne, clinging desperately to her precarious foothold, saw their flying forms and heard their shrieks. Help would soon come, but meanwhile her position was a very uncomfortable one.
平底船漂到了桥下，然后迅速沉入河中。鲁比、简和戴安娜已经在地势较低的岬角等待着它，她们亲眼目睹了它在她们眼前消失，毫不怀疑安妮也跟着它一起沉下去了。他们一动不动地站了一会儿，脸色苍白如床单，对这场悲剧感到恐惧得僵住了。然后，他们大声尖叫，开始疯狂地穿过树林，穿过大路看桥的路时一刻不停。安妮拼命地抓住她不稳定的立足点，看到了他们飞翔的身影，听到了他们的尖叫声。援助很快就会到来，但与此同时，她的处境却非常不舒服。

The minutes passed by, each seeming an hour to the unfortunate lily maid. Why didn’t somebody come? Where had the girls gone? Suppose they had fainted, one and all! Suppose nobody ever came! Suppose she grew so tired and cramped that she could hold on no longer! Anne looked at the wicked green depths below her, wavering with long, oily shadows, and shivered. Her imagination began to suggest all manner of gruesome possibilities to her.
时间一分一秒过去，对于不幸的百合女仆来说，每一分钟都像是一个小时。为什么没有人来？女孩们去哪儿了？假设他们都晕倒了！假设没有人来！假设她累得筋疲力尽，再也坚持不住了！安妮看着下面邪恶的绿色深处，长长的、油腻的阴影在摇曳，她颤抖着。她的想象力开始向她暗示各种可怕的可能性。

Then, just as she thought she really could not endure the ache in her arms and wrists another moment, Gilbert Blythe came rowing under the bridge in Harmon Andrews’s dory!
然后，正当她以为自己真的再也无法忍受手臂和手腕的疼痛时，吉尔伯特·布莱斯驾着哈蒙·安德鲁斯的平底小平底船划到了桥下！

Gilbert glanced up and, much to his amazement, beheld a little white scornful face looking down upon him with big, frightened but also scornful gray eyes.
吉尔伯特抬起头，令他大吃一惊的是，他看到一张白色的小脸，带着轻蔑的表情，用一双灰色的大眼睛俯视着他，眼睛里充满了恐惧，但也带着轻蔑。

‘Anne Shirley! How on earth did you get there?’ he exclaimed.
‘安妮·雪莉！你到底是怎么到那里的？”他惊呼道。

Without waiting for an answer he pulled close to the pile and extended his hand. There was no help for it; Anne, clinging to Gilbert Blythe’s hand, scrambled down into the dory, where she sat, drabbled and furious, in the stern with her arms full of dripping shawl and wet crepe. It was certainly extremely difficult to be dignified under the circumstances!
不等他回答，他就靠近那堆东西，伸出了手。对此没有任何帮助。安妮紧紧抓住吉尔伯特·布莱斯的手，爬进平底船，她浑身湿漉漉、愤怒地坐在船尾，怀里抱满了滴着水的披肩和湿绉纱。在这种情况下，想要保持尊严，确实是一件极其困难的事！

‘What has happened, Anne?’ asked Gilbert, taking up his oars. ‘We were playing Elaine’ explained Anne frigidly, without even looking at her rescuer, ‘and I had to drift down to Camelot in the barge—I mean the flat. The flat began to leak and I climbed out on the pile. The girls went for help. Will you be kind enough to row me to the landing?’
“发生了什么事，安妮？”吉尔伯特拿起桨问道。 “我们正在扮演伊莱恩，”安妮冷冷地解释道，甚至没有看她的救援者，“我不得不乘驳船漂流到卡米洛特——我指的是公寓。公寓开始漏水，我从堆里爬了出来。女孩们去寻求帮助。你能帮我划船到楼梯平台吗？

Gilbert obligingly rowed to the landing and Anne, disdaining assistance, sprang nimbly on shore.
吉尔伯特殷勤地划船到了码头，安妮不屑于援助，敏捷地跳上了岸。

‘I’m very much obliged to you,’ she said haughtily as she turned away. But Gilbert had also sprung from the boat and now laid a detaining hand on her arm.
“我非常感谢你，”她转身走开时傲慢地说。但吉尔伯特也从船上跳了出来，现在将一只手放在她的手臂上。

‘Anne,’ he said hurriedly, ‘look here. Can’t we be good friends? I’m awfully sorry I made fun of your hair that time. I didn’t mean to vex you and I only meant it for a joke. Besides, it’s so long ago. I think your hair is awfully pretty now—honest I do. Let’s be friends.’
“安妮，”他急忙说道，“看这里。我们就不能成为好朋友吗？我很抱歉那次我取笑了你的头发。我并不是有意惹恼你，我只是想开个玩笑。更何况，已经是很久以前的事情了。我觉得你的头发现在非常漂亮——老实说，我确实这么认为。让我们成为朋友吧。

For a moment Anne hesitated. She had an odd, newly awakened consciousness under all her outraged dignity that the half-shy, half-eager expression in Gilbert’s hazel eyes was something that was very good to see. Her heart gave a quick, queer little beat. But the bitterness of her old grievance promptly stiffened up her wavering determination. That scene of two years before flashed back into her recollection as vividly as if it had taken place yesterday. Gilbert had called her ‘carrots’ and had brought about her disgrace before the whole school. Her resentment, which to other and older people might be as laughable as its cause, was in no whit allayed and softened by time seemingly. She hated Gilbert Blythe! She would never forgive him!
安妮犹豫了一会儿。在她愤怒的尊严之下，她有一种奇怪的、新近觉醒的意识：吉尔伯特淡褐色眼睛里一半害羞、一半渴望的表情是非常好看的。她的心快速而奇怪地跳动着。但旧日积怨的痛苦很快坚定了她动摇的决心。两年前的那一幕，历历在目，仿佛就发生在昨天。吉尔伯特称她为“胡萝卜”，让她在全校面前蒙羞。对于其他人和年长的人来说，她的怨恨可能与其起因一样可笑，但时间似乎丝毫没有减轻和软化。她恨吉尔伯特·布莱斯！她永远不会原谅他！

‘No,’ she said coldly, ‘I shall never be friends with you, Gilbert Blythe; and I don’t want to be!’
“不，”她冷冷地说，“我永远不会和你成为朋友，吉尔伯特·布莱斯；我不想成为这样的人！

‘All right!’ Gilbert sprang into his skiff with an angry color in his cheeks. ‘I’ll never ask you to be friends again, Anne Shirley. And I don’t care either!’
“好吧！”吉尔伯特跳上小船，脸颊上浮现出愤怒之色。 “我再也不会要求你成为朋友了，安妮·雪莉。我也不在乎！

He pulled away with swift defiant strokes, and Anne went up the steep, ferny little path under the maples. She held her head very high, but she was conscious of an odd feeling of regret. She almost wished she had answered Gilbert differently. Of course, he had insulted her terribly, but still—! Altogether, Anne rather thought it would be a relief to sit down and have a good cry. She was really quite unstrung, for the reaction from her fright and cramped clinging was making itself felt.
他快速、挑衅地把车开开，安妮走上枫树下那条陡峭、长满蕨类植物的小路。她把头昂得很高，但心里却有一种奇怪的遗憾。她几乎希望自己当时能以不同的方式回答吉尔伯特。当然，他已经严重侮辱了她，但仍然——！总而言之，安妮觉得坐下来好好哭一场会是一种解脱。她真的很紧张，因为她的恐惧和局促的依恋所带来的反应是显而易见的。

Halfway up the path she met Jane and Diana rushing back to the pond in a state narrowly removed from positive frenzy. They had found nobody at Orchard Slope, both Mr. and Mrs. Barry being away. Here Ruby Gillis had succumbed to hysterics, and was left to recover from them as best she might, while Jane and Diana flew through the Haunted Wood and across the brook to Green Gables. There they had found nobody either, for Marilla had gone to Carmody and Matthew was making hay in the back field.
在半路上，她遇到了简和戴安娜，他们正冲回池塘，他们的状态几乎脱离了积极的疯狂。他们在果园坡没有发现任何人，巴里先生和夫人都不在。在这里，鲁比·吉利斯陷入了歇斯底里，只能尽其所能地恢复过来，而简和戴安娜则飞过鬼林，穿过小溪，到达绿山墙。在那里他们也没有发现任何人，因为玛丽拉已经去了卡莫迪，而马修正在后田里晒干草。

‘Oh, Anne,’ gasped Diana, fairly falling on the former’s neck and weeping with relief and delight, ‘oh, Anne—we thought—you were—drowned—and we felt like murderers—because we had made—you be—Elaine. And Ruby is in hysterics—oh, Anne, how did you escape?’
“哦，安妮，”黛安娜喘着气说，她倒在前者的脖子上，欣慰而高兴地哭泣，“哦，安妮——我们以为——你被——淹死了——我们感觉自己像杀人犯——因为我们让——你成为了——伊莱恩。鲁比歇斯底里——噢，安妮，你是怎么逃走的？

‘I climbed up on one of the piles,’ explained Anne wearily, ‘and Gilbert Blythe came along in Mr. Andrews’s dory and brought me to land.’
“我爬上了其中一根桩，”安妮疲倦地解释道，“吉尔伯特·布莱斯开着安德鲁斯先生的平底小平底船过来，把我带到了陆地上。”

‘Oh, Anne, how splendid of him! Why, it’s so romantic!’ said Jane, finding breath enough for utterance at last. ‘Of course you’ll speak to him after this.’
“噢，安妮，他真是太棒了！哎呀，真是太浪漫了！”简终于喘了一口气，可以说话了。 “当然，这之后你会和他说话。”

‘Of course I won’t,’ flashed Anne, with a momentary return of her old spirit. ‘And I don’t want ever to hear the word ‘romantic’ again, Jane Andrews. I’m awfully sorry you were so frightened, girls. It is all my fault. I feel sure I was born under an unlucky star. Everything I do gets me or my dearest friends into a scrape. We’ve gone and lost your father’s flat, Diana, and I have a presentiment that we’ll not be allowed to row on the pond any more.’
“我当然不会。”安妮突然说道，她的精神瞬间恢复了。 “我不想再听到‘浪漫’这个词了，简·安德鲁斯。我很抱歉你们这么害怕，女孩们。都是我的错。我确信我是出生在一个不幸的星象下。我所做的一切都让我或我最亲爱的朋友陷入困境。我们已经走了，失去了你父亲的公寓，戴安娜，我有一种预感，我们将不再被允许在池塘上划船。

Anne’s presentiment proved more trustworthy than presentiments are apt to do. Great was the consternation in the Barry and Cuthbert households when the events of the afternoon became known.
事实证明，安妮的预感比一般的预感更值得信赖。当下午发生的事情被知道后，巴里和卡斯伯特一家非常惊愕。

‘Will you ever have any sense, Anne?’ groaned Marilla.
“你还有理智吗，安妮？”玛丽拉呻吟道。

‘Oh, yes, I think I will, Marilla,’ returned Anne optimistically. A good cry, indulged in the grateful solitude of the east gable, had soothed her nerves and restored her to her wonted cheerfulness. ‘I think my prospects of becoming sensible are brighter now than ever.’
“哦，是的，我想我会的，玛丽拉，”安妮乐观地回答。沉浸在东山墙令人感激的孤独中，痛哭一场，舒缓了她的神经，让她恢复了往日的快乐。 “我认为我变得明智的前景比以往任何时候都更加光明。”

‘I don’t see how,’ said Marilla.
“我不明白怎么办，”玛丽拉说。

‘Well,’ explained Anne, ‘I’ve learned a new and valuable lesson today. Ever since I came to Green Gables I’ve been making mistakes, and each mistake has helped to cure me of some great shortcoming. The affair of the amethyst brooch cured me of meddling with things that didn’t belong to me. The Haunted Wood mistake cured me of letting my imagination run away with me. The liniment cake mistake cured me of carelessness in cooking. Dyeing my hair cured me of vanity. I never think about my hair and nose now—at least, very seldom. And today’s mistake is going to cure me of being too romantic. I have come to the conclusion that it is no use trying to be romantic in Avonlea. It was probably easy enough in towered Camelot hundreds of years ago, but romance is not appreciated now. I feel quite sure that you will soon see a great improvement in me in this respect, Marilla.’
“嗯，”安妮解释道，“今天我学到了一个新的、有价值的教训。”自从我来到绿山墙以来，我一直在犯错误，而每一个错误都帮助我弥补了一些巨大的缺点。紫水晶胸针的事让我不再乱动不属于我的东西。闹鬼森林的错误治愈了我的想象力。搽剂蛋糕的错误治愈了我做饭时粗心大意的毛病。染头发治愈了我的虚荣心。我现在从不去想我的头发和鼻子——至少，很少。今天的错误将会治愈我过于浪漫的毛病。我得出的结论是，在埃文利尝试浪漫是没有用的。几百年前，在高耸的卡米洛特，这可能很容易，但现在浪漫已经不被重视了。我确信你很快就会看到我在这方面的巨大进步，玛丽拉。”

‘I’m sure I hope so,’ said Marilla skeptically.
“我确信我希望如此，”玛丽拉怀疑地说。

But Matthew, who had been sitting mutely in his corner, laid a hand on Anne’s shoulder when Marilla had gone out.
但当玛丽拉出去时，一直默默地坐在角落里的马修把手放在安妮的肩膀上。

‘Don’t give up all your romance, Anne,’ he whispered shyly, ‘a little of it is a good thing—not too much, of course—but keep a little of it, Anne, keep a little of it.’
“别放弃你所有的浪漫，安妮，”他害羞地低声说，“有一点是好事——当然，不要太多——但保留一点，安妮，保留一点。”

Chapter XXIX
第二十九章


An Epoch in Anne’s Life
安妮生命中的一个时代

Anne was bringing the cows home from the back pasture by way of Lover’s Lane. It was a September evening and all the gaps and clearings in the woods were brimmed up with ruby sunset light. Here and there the lane was splashed with it, but for the most part it was already quite shadowy beneath the maples, and the spaces under the firs were filled with a clear violet dusk like airy wine. The winds were out in their tops, and there is no sweeter music on earth than that which the wind makes in the fir trees at evening.
安妮正把奶牛从后面的牧场带回家，取道情人巷。那是九月的一个傍晚，树林里的所有缝隙和空地都被红宝石色的夕阳照亮。巷子里到处都洒满了它，但大部分地方在枫树下已经很阴暗了，冷杉下的空间充满了清澈的紫罗兰色黄昏，就像空气中的酒一样。风从山顶吹来，世界上没有比傍晚的风吹过冷杉树更悦耳的音乐了。

The cows swung placidly down the lane, and Anne followed them dreamily, repeating aloud the battle canto from MARMION—which had also been part of their English course the preceding winter and which Miss Stacy had made them learn off by heart—and exulting in its rushing lines and the clash of spears in its imagery. When she came to the lines
奶牛们平静地沿着小巷荡来荡去，安妮如梦似幻地跟着它们，大声重复着《玛米恩》中的战斗诗篇——这也是他们去年冬天英语课程的一部分，史黛西小姐让他们背诵了这首诗——并为它的内容而欣喜若狂。其图像中有奔腾的线条和长矛的冲突。当她来到队伍前时

The stubborn spearsmen still made good
顽强的长矛兵仍然取得了不错的成绩

Their dark impenetrable wood,
他们那漆黑坚不可摧的木头，

she stopped in ecstasy to shut her eyes that she might the better fancy herself one of that heroic ring. When she opened them again it was to behold Diana coming through the gate that led into the Barry field and looking so important that Anne instantly divined there was news to be told. But betray too eager curiosity she would not.
她欣喜若狂地停下来闭上眼睛，这样她就可以更好地幻想自己是那枚英雄戒指中的一员。当她再次打开它们时，看到戴安娜穿过通向巴里田地的大门，看起来如此重要，以至于安妮立即猜到有消息要告诉。但她不会表现出过于强烈的好奇心。

‘Isn’t this evening just like a purple dream, Diana? It makes me so glad to be alive. In the mornings I always think the mornings are best; but when evening comes I think it’s lovelier still.’
‘黛安娜，这个夜晚难道不像一场紫色的梦吗？这让我很高兴还活着。早上我总是认为早上是最好的；但当晚上到来时，我认为它仍然更可爱。

‘It’s a very fine evening,’ said Diana, ‘but oh, I have such news, Anne. Guess. You can have three guesses.’
“这是一个非常美好的夜晚，”戴安娜说，“但是哦，我有这样的消息，安妮。猜测。你可以有三种猜测。

‘Charlotte Gillis is going to be married in the church after all and Mrs. Allan wants us to decorate it,’ cried Anne.
“夏洛特·吉利斯毕竟要在教堂举行婚礼，艾伦夫人要我们装饰它，”安妮喊道。

‘No. Charlotte’s beau won’t agree to that, because nobody ever has been married in the church yet, and he thinks it would seem too much like a funeral. It’s too mean, because it would be such fun. Guess again.’
'不。夏洛特的情人不会同意这一点，因为还没有人在教堂里结婚，他认为这看起来太像葬礼了。这太卑鄙了，因为那样会很有趣。再猜。'

‘Jane’s mother is going to let her have a birthday party?’
“简的妈妈要让她举办生日聚会？”

Diana shook her head, her black eyes dancing with merriment.
黛安娜摇摇头，黑色的眼睛闪烁着欢乐的光芒。

‘I can’t think what it can be,’ said Anne in despair, ‘unless it’s that Moody Spurgeon MacPherson saw you home from prayer meeting last night. Did he?’
“我想不出会是什么，”安妮绝望地说，“除非穆迪·司布真·麦克弗森昨晚送你从祈祷会回家。”他是吗？

‘I should think not,’ exclaimed Diana indignantly. ‘I wouldn’t be likely to boast of it if he did, the horrid creature! I knew you couldn’t guess it. Mother had a letter from Aunt Josephine today, and Aunt Josephine wants you and me to go to town next Tuesday and stop with her for the Exhibition. There!’
“我不应该这么认为，”戴安娜愤怒地喊道。 “如果他真的这么做了，我就不会夸耀了，这个可怕的生物！”我知道你猜不到。妈妈今天收到约瑟芬姨妈的一封信，约瑟芬姨妈要你和我下周二进城，和她一起去看展览。那里！'

‘Oh, Diana,’ whispered Anne, finding it necessary to lean up against a maple tree for support, ‘do you really mean it? But I’m afraid Marilla won’t let me go. She will say that she can’t encourage gadding about. That was what she said last week when Jane invited me to go with them in their double-seated buggy to the American concert at the White Sands Hotel. I wanted to go, but Marilla said I’d be better at home learning my lessons and so would Jane. I was bitterly disappointed, Diana. I felt so heartbroken that I wouldn’t say my prayers when I went to bed. But I repented of that and got up in the middle of the night and said them.’
“哦，戴安娜，”安妮低声说道，她发现有必要靠在一棵枫树上作为支撑，“你是认真的吗？但我担心玛丽拉不会放我走。她会说她不能鼓励闲逛。上周，当简邀请我乘坐他们的双人越野车去白沙酒店观看美国音乐会时，她就是这么说的。我想去，但玛丽拉说我最好在家学习，简也一样。我非常失望，戴安娜。我感到非常心碎，以至于睡觉时我不会做祈祷。但我后悔了，并在半夜起床说了这些话。”

‘I’ll tell you,’ said Diana, ‘we’ll get Mother to ask Marilla. She’ll be more likely to let you go then; and if she does we’ll have the time of our lives, Anne. I’ve never been to an Exhibition, and it’s so aggravating to hear the other girls talking about their trips. Jane and Ruby have been twice, and they’re going this year again.’
“我告诉你，”戴安娜说，“我们会让妈妈去问玛丽拉。”那么她就更有可能让你走；如果她这么做了，我们就会度过一生中最幸福的时光，安妮。我从未去过展览，听到其他女孩谈论她们的旅行真是令人烦恼。简和鲁比已经去过两次了，今年他们还要再去一次。

‘I’m not going to think about it at all until I know whether I can go or not,’ said Anne resolutely. ‘If I did and then was disappointed, it would be more than I could bear. But in case I do go I’m very glad my new coat will be ready by that time. Marilla didn’t think I needed a new coat. She said my old one would do very well for another winter and that I ought to be satisfied with having a new dress. The dress is very pretty, Diana—navy blue and made so fashionably. Marilla always makes my dresses fashionably now, because she says she doesn’t intend to have Matthew going to Mrs. Lynde to make them. I’m so glad. It is ever so much easier to be good if your clothes are fashionable. At least, it is easier for me. I suppose it doesn’t make such a difference to naturally good people. But Matthew said I must have a new coat, so Marilla bought a lovely piece of blue broadcloth, and it’s being made by a real dressmaker over at Carmody. It’s to be done Saturday night, and I’m trying not to imagine myself walking up the church aisle on Sunday in my new suit and cap, because I’m afraid it isn’t right to imagine such things. But it just slips into my mind in spite of me. My cap is so pretty. Matthew bought it for me the day we were over at Carmody. It is one of those little blue velvet ones that are all the rage, with gold cord and tassels. Your new hat is elegant, Diana, and so becoming. When I saw you come into church last Sunday my heart swelled with pride to think you were my dearest friend. Do you suppose it’s wrong for us to think so much about our clothes? Marilla says it is very sinful. But it is such an interesting subject, isn’t it?’
“在我知道我是否可以去之前，我根本不会考虑这件事。”安妮坚决地说。 “如果我这样做了然后感到失望，那将超出我的承受能力。但如果我真的去的话，我很高兴那时我的新外套已经准备好了。玛丽拉认为我不需要一件新外套。她说我的旧衣服再穿一个冬天会很好，而且我应该对拥有一件新衣服感到满意。戴安娜，这件衣服非常漂亮——海军蓝色，而且做得很时尚。玛丽拉现在总是给我做时尚的衣服，因为她说她不打算让马修去林德夫人那里做。我很高兴。如果你的衣服很时尚，那么做好事就容易多了。至少，对我来说更容易。我想这对于天生善良的人来说并没有多大区别。但马修说我必须买一件新外套，所以玛丽拉买了一件可爱的蓝色绒布，它是由卡莫迪的一位真正的裁缝制作的。这件事要在周六晚上完成，我尽量不去想象自己周日穿着新西装、戴新帽子走在教堂的过道上，因为我担心想象这样的事情是不对的。但不管我怎么想，它都会溜进我的脑海里。我的帽子真漂亮。我们在卡莫迪的那天，马修给我买了它。这是一款非常流行的蓝色天鹅绒小礼服，带有金绳和流苏。戴安娜，你的新帽子很优雅，而且很合适。上周日，当我看到你走进教堂时，我的心充满自豪，因为我认为你是我最亲爱的朋友。你认为我们对自己的衣服考虑太多是错误的吗？玛丽拉说这是非常有罪的。但这是一个非常有趣的话题，不是吗？

Marilla agreed to let Anne go to town, and it was arranged that Mr. Barry should take the girls in on the following Tuesday. As Charlottetown was thirty miles away and Mr. Barry wished to go and return the same day, it was necessary to make a very early start. But Anne counted it all joy, and was up before sunrise on Tuesday morning. A glance from her window assured her that the day would be fine, for the eastern sky behind the firs of the Haunted Wood was all silvery and cloudless. Through the gap in the trees a light was shining in the western gable of Orchard Slope, a token that Diana was also up.
玛丽拉同意让安妮进城，并安排巴里先生在下周二带女儿们过来。由于夏洛特敦距此有三十英里，而巴里先生希望当天出发并当天返回，因此有必要尽早出发。但安妮认为这一切都很快乐，并在周二早上日出前起床。从窗外瞥了一眼，她确信今天会是晴天，因为鬼林冷杉背后的东方天空一片银色，万里无云。透过树林的缝隙，果园坡的西山墙闪烁着光芒，这表明戴安娜也已经起来了。

Anne was dressed by the time Matthew had the fire on and had the breakfast ready when Marilla came down, but for her own part was much too excited to eat. After breakfast the jaunty new cap and jacket were donned, and Anne hastened over the brook and up through the firs to Orchard Slope. Mr. Barry and Diana were waiting for her, and they were soon on the road.
马修生火时，安妮已经穿好衣服，玛丽拉下来时，她已经准备好了早餐，但她自己却兴奋得吃不下饭。早餐后，戴上漂亮的新帽子和夹克，安妮急忙穿过小溪，穿过冷杉到达果园坡。巴里先生和戴安娜正在等她，他们很快就上路了。

It was a long drive, but Anne and Diana enjoyed every minute of it. It was delightful to rattle along over the moist roads in the early red sunlight that was creeping across the shorn harvest fields. The air was fresh and crisp, and little smoke-blue mists curled through the valleys and floated off from the hills. Sometimes the road went through woods where maples were beginning to hang out scarlet banners; sometimes it crossed rivers on bridges that made Anne’s flesh cringe with the old, half-delightful fear; sometimes it wound along a harbor shore and passed by a little cluster of weather-gray fishing huts; again it mounted to hills whence a far sweep of curving upland or misty-blue sky could be seen; but wherever it went there was much of interest to discuss. It was almost noon when they reached town and found their way to ‘Beechwood.’ It was quite a fine old mansion, set back from the street in a seclusion of green elms and branching beeches. Miss Barry met them at the door with a twinkle in her sharp black eyes.
虽然车程很长，但安妮和戴安娜很享受其中的每一分钟。清晨的红色阳光爬过收割的庄稼地，在潮湿的道路上嘎嘎作响，真是令人愉快。空气清新清新，烟蓝色的薄雾在山谷中盘旋，从山上飘下来。有时，道路会穿过树林，那里的枫树开始挂起猩红色的旗帜。有时，它会在桥上过河，这让安妮的肉体因古老的、半令人愉快的恐惧而畏缩。有时它沿着港口海岸蜿蜒而过，经过一小群灰色的渔屋。它又登上了山丘，从那里可以看到远处弯曲的高地或雾蓝色的天空。但无论走到哪里，都有很多值得讨论的话题。他们到达镇上时已近中午，找到了“比奇伍德”。那是一栋相当漂亮的古老宅邸，远离街道，隐秘在绿色的榆树和枝繁叶茂的山毛榉树丛中。巴里小姐在门口迎接他们，她那双锐利的黑眼睛里闪烁着光芒。

‘So you’ve come to see me at last, you Anne-girl,’ she said. ‘Mercy, child, how you have grown! You’re taller than I am, I declare. And you’re ever so much better looking than you used to be, too. But I dare say you know that without being told.’
“原来你终于来看我了，你这个安妮女孩，”她说。 ‘可怜的孩子，你已经长大了！你比我高，我声明。而且你也比以前好看多了。但我敢说你不用别人告诉你就知道这一点。

‘Indeed I didn’t,’ said Anne radiantly. ‘I know I’m not so freckled as I used to be, so I’ve much to be thankful for, but I really hadn’t dared to hope there was any other improvement. I’m so glad you think there is, Miss Barry.’ Miss Barry’s house was furnished with ‘great magnificence,’ as Anne told Marilla afterward. The two little country girls were rather abashed by the splendor of the parlor where Miss Barry left them when she went to see about dinner.
“我确实没有，”安妮满面笑容地说。 “我知道我的雀斑不再像以前那么严重了，所以我很感激，但我真的不敢希望有任何其他的改善。我很高兴你认为有，巴里小姐。”正如安妮后来告诉玛丽拉的那样，巴里小姐的房子布置得“非常华丽”。巴里小姐去看晚饭时留下的客厅富丽堂皇，这让两个乡下小女孩感到相当尴尬。

‘Isn’t it just like a palace?’ whispered Diana. ‘I never was in Aunt Josephine’s house before, and I’d no idea it was so grand. I just wish Julia Bell could see this—she puts on such airs about her mother’s parlor.’
“这不是像一座宫殿吗？”黛安娜低声说道。 “我以前从未去过约瑟芬姨妈的房子，我不知道它如此宏伟。我只是希望朱莉娅·贝尔能看到这一点——她对她母亲的客厅摆出这样的架子。

‘Velvet carpet,’ sighed Anne luxuriously, ‘and silk curtains! I’ve dreamed of such things, Diana. But do you know I don’t believe I feel very comfortable with them after all. There are so many things in this room and all so splendid that there is no scope for imagination. That is one consolation when you are poor—there are so many more things you can imagine about.’
“天鹅绒地毯，”安妮奢华地叹了口气，“还有丝绸窗帘！我曾经梦想过这样的事情，戴安娜。但你知道吗，我不相信我和他们在一起感觉很舒服。这屋子里的东西太多了，而且都华丽得让人没有想象的余地。当你很穷的时候，这是一种安慰——你可以想象的事情还有很多。”

Their sojourn in town was something that Anne and Diana dated from for years. From first to last it was crowded with delights.
安妮和戴安娜在城里的逗留已经约会了很多年。自始至终，这里都充满了欢乐。

On Wednesday Miss Barry took them to the Exhibition grounds and kept them there all day.
周三，巴里小姐带他们去了展览场地，并让他们在那里呆了一整天。

‘It was splendid,’ Anne related to Marilla later on. ‘I never imagined anything so interesting. I don’t really know which department was the most interesting. I think I liked the horses and the flowers and the fancywork best. Josie Pye took first prize for knitted lace. I was real glad she did. And I was glad that I felt glad, for it shows I’m improving, don’t you think, Marilla, when I can rejoice in Josie’s success? Mr. Harmon Andrews took second prize for Gravenstein apples and Mr. Bell took first prize for a pig. Diana said she thought it was ridiculous for a Sunday-school superintendent to take a prize in pigs, but I don’t see why. Do you? She said she would always think of it after this when he was praying so solemnly. Clara Louise MacPherson took a prize for painting, and Mrs. Lynde got first prize for homemade butter and cheese. So Avonlea was pretty well represented, wasn’t it? Mrs. Lynde was there that day, and I never knew how much I really liked her until I saw her familiar face among all those strangers. There were thousands of people there, Marilla. It made me feel dreadfully insignificant. And Miss Barry took us up to the grandstand to see the horse races. Mrs. Lynde wouldn’t go; she said horse racing was an abomination and, she being a church member, thought it her bounden duty to set a good example by staying away. But there were so many there I don’t believe Mrs. Lynde’s absence would ever be noticed. I don’t think, though, that I ought to go very often to horse races, because they ARE awfully fascinating. Diana got so excited that she offered to bet me ten cents that the red horse would win. I didn’t believe he would, but I refused to bet, because I wanted to tell Mrs. Allan all about everything, and I felt sure it wouldn’t do to tell her that. It’s always wrong to do anything you can’t tell the minister’s wife. It’s as good as an extra conscience to have a minister’s wife for your friend. And I was very glad I didn’t bet, because the red horse DID win, and I would have lost ten cents. So you see that virtue was its own reward. We saw a man go up in a balloon. I’d love to go up in a balloon, Marilla; it would be simply thrilling; and we saw a man selling fortunes. You paid him ten cents and a little bird picked out your fortune for you. Miss Barry gave Diana and me ten cents each to have our fortunes told. Mine was that I would marry a dark-complected man who was very wealthy, and I would go across water to live. I looked carefully at all the dark men I saw after that, but I didn’t care much for any of them, and anyhow I suppose it’s too early to be looking out for him yet. Oh, it was a never-to-be-forgotten day, Marilla. I was so tired I couldn’t sleep at night. Miss Barry put us in the spare room, according to promise. It was an elegant room, Marilla, but somehow sleeping in a spare room isn’t what I used to think it was. That’s the worst of growing up, and I’m beginning to realize it. The things you wanted so much when you were a child don’t seem half so wonderful to you when you get them.’
“太棒了，”安妮后来对玛丽拉说道。 “我从未想象过有如此有趣的事情。我真的不知道哪个部门最有趣。我想我最喜欢那些马、花和奇特的作品。 Josie Pye 获得针织蕾丝一等奖。我真的很高兴她这么做了。我很高兴我感到高兴，因为这表明我正在进步，玛丽拉，当我可以为乔西的成功感到高兴时，你不觉得吗？ Harmon Andrews 先生因 Gravenstein 苹果获得二等奖，Bell 先生因猪获得一等奖。戴安娜说，她认为主日学校的校长拿猪作为奖品是荒谬的，但我不明白为什么。你？她说，当他如此庄严地祈祷时，她总会想起这件事。克拉拉·路易丝·麦克弗森 (Clara Louise MacPherson) 荣获绘画奖，林德夫人 (Mrs. Lynde) 荣获自制黄油和奶酪一等奖。所以埃文利的代表相当不错，不是吗？那天林德太太也在场，直到我在所有陌生人中看到她熟悉的面孔，我才知道自己有多喜欢她。那里有数千人，玛丽拉。这让我感到自己极其渺小。巴里小姐带我们到看台去看赛马。林德夫人不肯去。她说赛马是一种令人厌恶的行为，作为一名教会成员，她认为自己有责任树立好榜样，远离赛马。但那里有太多人，我相信林德夫人的缺席不会被注意到。不过，我认为我不应该经常去参加赛马比赛，因为它们非常令人着迷。戴安娜非常兴奋，她提出和我打赌十美分，红马会赢。我不相信他会这么做，但我拒绝打赌，因为我想告诉艾伦太太所有的事情，而且我确信告诉她这些是不行的。 做任何不能告诉牧师妻子的事情总是错误的。为你的朋友拥有一位牧师的妻子，就像多一份良心一样。我很庆幸自己没有下注，因为红马确实赢了，而我会损失十美分。所以你看，美德本身就是回报。我们看到一个人乘气球上升。我很想乘气球上升，玛丽拉；这将是非常令人兴奋的；我们看到一个人在卖钱。你付给他十美分，一只小鸟就为你挑选了你的财富。巴里小姐给了戴安娜和我每人十美分，让我们算命。我的愿望是嫁给一个腹黑又富有的男人，漂洋过海去生活。之后我仔细地观察了我看到的所有黑衣人，但我对他们中的任何一个都不太关心，无论如何，我认为现在寻找他还为时过早。哦，这是永远难忘的一天，玛丽拉。我太累了，晚上睡不着。巴里小姐按照承诺把我们安排在了空房间里。这是一个优雅的房间，玛丽拉，但不知怎的，睡在一个空房间里并不是我以前想象的那样。这是成长过程中最糟糕的事情，我开始意识到这一点。当你还是个孩子的时候，你非常想要的东西，当你得到它们时，你觉得它们并不那么美好。’

Thursday the girls had a drive in the park, and in the evening Miss Barry took them to a concert in the Academy of Music, where a noted prima donna was to sing. To Anne the evening was a glittering vision of delight.
周四，女孩们开车去公园兜风，晚上，巴里小姐带她们去音乐学院听一场音乐会，一位著名的首席女歌手将在那里演唱。对安妮来说，这个夜晚是一个闪闪发光的欢乐景象。

‘Oh, Marilla, it was beyond description. I was so excited I couldn’t even talk, so you may know what it was like. I just sat in enraptured silence. Madame Selitsky was perfectly beautiful, and wore white satin and diamonds. But when she began to sing I never thought about anything else. Oh, I can’t tell you how I felt. But it seemed to me that it could never be hard to be good any more. I felt like I do when I look up to the stars. Tears came into my eyes, but, oh, they were such happy tears. I was so sorry when it was all over, and I told Miss Barry I didn’t see how I was ever to return to common life again. She said she thought if we went over to the restaurant across the street and had an ice cream it might help me. That sounded so prosaic; but to my surprise I found it true. The ice cream was delicious, Marilla, and it was so lovely and dissipated to be sitting there eating it at eleven o’clock at night. Diana said she believed she was born for city life. Miss Barry asked me what my opinion was, but I said I would have to think it over very seriously before I could tell her what I really thought. So I thought it over after I went to bed. That is the best time to think things out. And I came to the conclusion, Marilla, that I wasn’t born for city life and that I was glad of it. It’s nice to be eating ice cream at brilliant restaurants at eleven o’clock at night once in a while; but as a regular thing I’d rather be in the east gable at eleven, sound asleep, but kind of knowing even in my sleep that the stars were shining outside and that the wind was blowing in the firs across the brook. I told Miss Barry so at breakfast the next morning and she laughed. Miss Barry generally laughed at anything I said, even when I said the most solemn things. I don’t think I liked it, Marilla, because I wasn’t trying to be funny. But she is a most hospitable lady and treated us royally.’
“噢，玛丽拉，这简直无法形容。我太兴奋了，甚至说不出话来，所以你可能知道那是什么感觉。我只是欣喜若狂地坐着。塞利茨基夫人非常美丽，穿着白色缎子和钻石。但当她开始唱歌时，我就没有想过其他的事情了。哦，我无法告诉你我的感受。但在我看来，做好事不再那么困难了。我的感觉就像仰望星空时一样。我的眼里涌出了泪水，但是，哦，那是多么幸福的泪水。一切结束后，我感到非常抱歉，我告诉巴里小姐，我不知道如何才能再次回到普通生活。她说她想如果我们去街对面的餐厅吃个冰淇淋可能会对我有帮助。这听起来很平淡；但令我惊讶的是我发现这是真的。冰淇淋很好吃，玛丽拉，晚上十一点坐在那儿吃它真是太可爱了，而且很消散。戴安娜说，她相信自己是为城市生活而生的。巴里小姐问我的意见是什么，但我说我必须认真考虑一下才能告诉她我的真实想法。所以我睡觉后想了想。这是思考问题的最佳时机。我得出的结论是，玛丽拉，我不是为城市生活而生的，但我对此感到很高兴。偶尔晚上十一点在高档餐厅吃冰淇淋真是太好了；但作为惯例，我宁愿十一点在东山墙，熟睡，但即使在睡梦中，我也知道外面的星星在闪烁，风在小溪对面的冷杉中吹过。第二天早餐时我告诉巴里小姐，她笑了。巴里小姐一般都会嘲笑我说的任何话，即使我说的是最严肃的话。 我想我不喜欢它，玛丽拉，因为我并不是想搞笑。但她是一位非常热情好客的女士，对待我们非常有礼貌。’

Friday brought going-home time, and Mr. Barry drove in for the girls.
星期五是回家的时间，巴里先生开车来接女儿们。

‘Well, I hope you’ve enjoyed yourselves,’ said Miss Barry, as she bade them good-bye.
“好吧，我希望你们玩得开心，”巴里小姐在向他们告别时说道。

‘Indeed we have,’ said Diana.
“我们确实有，”戴安娜说。

‘And you, Anne-girl?’
“那你呢，安妮姑娘？”

‘I’ve enjoyed every minute of the time,’ said Anne, throwing her arms impulsively about the old woman’s neck and kissing her wrinkled cheek. Diana would never have dared to do such a thing and felt rather aghast at Anne’s freedom. But Miss Barry was pleased, and she stood on her veranda and watched the buggy out of sight. Then she went back into her big house with a sigh. It seemed very lonely, lacking those fresh young lives. Miss Barry was a rather selfish old lady, if the truth must be told, and had never cared much for anybody but herself. She valued people only as they were of service to her or amused her. Anne had amused her, and consequently stood high in the old lady’s good graces. But Miss Barry found herself thinking less about Anne’s quaint speeches than of her fresh enthusiasms, her transparent emotions, her little winning ways, and the sweetness of her eyes and lips.
“我很享受这段时间的每一分钟，”安妮说，她冲动地用双臂搂住老妇人的脖子，亲吻她布满皱纹的脸颊。戴安娜绝对不敢做这样的事，她对安妮的自由感到非常震惊。但巴里小姐很高兴，她站在阳台上，看着马车消失在视线之外。然后她叹了一口气，回到了自己的大房子里。显得很孤独，缺少了那些新鲜的年轻生命。说实话，巴里小姐是一位相当自私的老太太，除了她自己之外，从来不关心任何人。她只看重那些为她服务或让她开心的人。安妮逗乐了她，因此赢得了老太太的青睐。但巴里小姐发现自己想的不是安妮古怪的演讲，而是她新鲜的热情、她透明的情感、她小小的胜利之道，以及她眼睛和嘴唇的甜蜜。

‘I thought Marilla Cuthbert was an old fool when I heard she’d adopted a girl out of an orphan asylum,’ she said to herself, ‘but I guess she didn’t make much of a mistake after all. If I’d a child like Anne in the house all the time I’d be a better and happier woman.’
“当我听说玛丽拉·库斯伯特从孤儿院收养了一个女孩时，我以为她是个老傻瓜，”她自言自语道，“但我想她毕竟没有犯太大的错误。”如果我家里一直有一个像安妮这样的孩子，我会成为一个更好、更快乐的女人。

Anne and Diana found the drive home as pleasant as the drive in—pleasanter, indeed, since there was the delightful consciousness of home waiting at the end of it. It was sunset when they passed through White Sands and turned into the shore road. Beyond, the Avonlea hills came out darkly against the saffron sky. Behind them the moon was rising out of the sea that grew all radiant and transfigured in her light. Every little cove along the curving road was a marvel of dancing ripples. The waves broke with a soft swish on the rocks below them, and the tang of the sea was in the strong, fresh air.
安妮和戴安娜觉得开车回家的路和开车进来的路一样愉快——事实上，更愉快，因为在回家的路上有一种令人愉快的感觉在等待着回家。穿过白沙，拐进滨海路时，已是日落时分。远处，埃文利山在橘黄色的天空映衬下显得漆黑一片。在他们身后，月亮从海中升起，海面在她的光芒下变得容光焕发、变幻莫测。弯曲道路上的每一个小海湾都是舞动的涟漪的奇迹。海浪拍打着下方的岩石，发出轻轻的嗖嗖声，新鲜的空气中弥漫着大海的味道。

‘Oh, but it’s good to be alive and to be going home,’ breathed Anne.
“哦，不过能活着回家真是太好了，”安妮喘息道。

When she crossed the log bridge over the brook the kitchen light of Green Gables winked her a friendly welcome back, and through the open door shone the hearth fire, sending out its warm red glow athwart the chilly autumn night. Anne ran blithely up the hill and into the kitchen, where a hot supper was waiting on the table.
当她跨过小溪上的独木桥时，绿山墙厨房的灯光友好地欢迎她回来，敞开的门透过壁炉的火光，发出温暖的红光，穿过寒冷的秋夜。安妮兴高采烈地跑上山，跑进厨房，热腾腾的晚餐已经摆在桌子上。

‘So you’ve got back?’ said Marilla, folding up her knitting.
“你回来了？”玛丽拉一边说，一边折叠起她的针织品。

‘Yes, and oh, it’s so good to be back,’ said Anne joyously. ‘I could kiss everything, even to the clock. Marilla, a broiled chicken! You don’t mean to say you cooked that for me!’
“是的，哦，回来真是太好了，”安妮高兴地说。 “我可以亲吻一切，甚至是时钟。玛丽拉，烤鸡！你该不会是说这是你给我做的吧！”

‘Yes, I did,’ said Marilla. ‘I thought you’d be hungry after such a drive and need something real appetizing. Hurry and take off your things, and we’ll have supper as soon as Matthew comes in. I’m glad you’ve got back, I must say. It’s been fearful lonesome here without you, and I never put in four longer days.’
“是的，我做到了，”玛丽拉说。 “我以为你开了这么远的路，一定会饿了，需要吃点真正开胃的东西。快点脱掉你的东西，马修一进来我们就吃晚饭。我必须说，我很高兴你回来了。没有你在这里真是太孤独了，我从来没有度过更长的四天。

After supper Anne sat before the fire between Matthew and Marilla, and gave them a full account of her visit.
晚饭后，安妮坐在马修和玛丽拉中间的火炉前，向他们详细讲述了她的来访情况。

‘I’ve had a splendid time,’ she concluded happily, ‘and I feel that it marks an epoch in my life. But the best of it all was the coming home.’
“我度过了一段美好的时光，”她高兴地总结道，“我觉得这标志着我生命中的一个新纪元。”但最棒的是回家。”

Chapter XXX
第三十章


The Queens Class Is Organized
皇后班已组织好

Marilla laid her knitting on her lap and leaned back in her chair. Her eyes were tired, and she thought vaguely that she must see about having her glasses changed the next time she went to town, for her eyes had grown tired very often of late.
玛丽拉把编织的东西放在腿上，靠在椅子上。她的眼睛很累，她隐隐约约地想，下次进城的时候一定要注意换眼镜了，因为最近她的眼睛经常感到疲劳。

It was nearly dark, for the full November twilight had fallen around Green Gables, and the only light in the kitchen came from the dancing red flames in the stove.
天几乎黑了，因为整个十一月的暮色已经笼罩在绿山墙周围，厨房里唯一的光来自炉子里舞动的红色火焰。

Anne was curled up Turk-fashion on the hearthrug, gazing into that joyous glow where the sunshine of a hundred summers was being distilled from the maple cordwood. She had been reading, but her book had slipped to the floor, and now she was dreaming, with a smile on her parted lips. Glittering castles in Spain were shaping themselves out of the mists and rainbows of her lively fancy; adventures wonderful and enthralling were happening to her in cloudland—adventures that always turned out triumphantly and never involved her in scrapes like those of actual life.
安妮像土耳其人那样蜷缩在壁炉边的地毯上，凝视着枫木芯材上散发着一百个夏天的阳光所散发出的欢乐光芒。她一直在看书，但她的书滑到了地板上，现在她正在做梦，嘴唇上挂着微笑。西班牙闪闪发光的城堡正在她生动想象的薄雾和彩虹中塑造出来。在云端，她经历了奇妙而迷人的冒险——这些冒险总是以胜利告终，而从未像现实生活中那样让她陷入困境。

Marilla looked at her with a tenderness that would never have been suffered to reveal itself in any clearer light than that soft mingling of fireshine and shadow. The lesson of a love that should display itself easily in spoken word and open look was one Marilla could never learn. But she had learned to love this slim, gray-eyed girl with an affection all the deeper and stronger from its very undemonstrativeness. Her love made her afraid of being unduly indulgent, indeed. She had an uneasy feeling that it was rather sinful to set one’s heart so intensely on any human creature as she had set hers on Anne, and perhaps she performed a sort of unconscious penance for this by being stricter and more critical than if the girl had been less dear to her. Certainly Anne herself had no idea how Marilla loved her. She sometimes thought wistfully that Marilla was very hard to please and distinctly lacking in sympathy and understanding. But she always checked the thought reproachfully, remembering what she owed to Marilla.
玛丽拉看着她，眼神里充满了温柔，这种温柔在任何比火光和阴影的柔和混合更清晰的光线下都不会显现出来。爱应该通过言语和开放的眼神轻松地表达出来，这是马里拉永远无法学到的。但她已经学会了爱这个身材苗条、灰眼睛的女孩，因为她的不外露，爱的感情变得更深更强烈。的确，她的爱让她害怕过分的纵容。她有一种不安的感觉，觉得把一个人的心如此强烈地放在任何人类身上，就像她把自己的心放在安妮身上一样，是相当有罪的，也许她为此表现出一种无意识的忏悔，比那个女孩更严格、更挑剔。对她来说不那么亲爱了。当然，安妮自己并不知道玛丽拉有多爱她。她有时会若有所思地想，玛丽拉很难取悦，而且明显缺乏同情心和理解力。但她总是带着责备的心情抑制住这个念头，记住她对玛丽拉的亏欠。

‘Anne,’ said Marilla abruptly, ‘Miss Stacy was here this afternoon when you were out with Diana.’
“安妮，”玛丽拉突然说道，“今天下午你和戴安娜出去的时候史黛西小姐也在这儿。”

Anne came back from her other world with a start and a sigh.
安妮从另一个世界回来，吃了一惊，叹了口气。

‘Was she? Oh, I’m so sorry I wasn’t in. Why didn’t you call me, Marilla? Diana and I were only over in the Haunted Wood. It’s lovely in the woods now. All the little wood things—the ferns and the satin leaves and the crackerberries—have gone to sleep, just as if somebody had tucked them away until spring under a blanket of leaves. I think it was a little gray fairy with a rainbow scarf that came tiptoeing along the last moonlight night and did it. Diana wouldn’t say much about that, though. Diana has never forgotten the scolding her mother gave her about imagining ghosts into the Haunted Wood. It had a very bad effect on Diana’s imagination. It blighted it. Mrs. Lynde says Myrtle Bell is a blighted being. I asked Ruby Gillis why Myrtle was blighted, and Ruby said she guessed it was because her young man had gone back on her. Ruby Gillis thinks of nothing but young men, and the older she gets the worse she is. Young men are all very well in their place, but it doesn’t do to drag them into everything, does it? Diana and I are thinking seriously of promising each other that we will never marry but be nice old maids and live together forever. Diana hasn’t quite made up her mind though, because she thinks perhaps it would be nobler to marry some wild, dashing, wicked young man and reform him. Diana and I talk a great deal about serious subjects now, you know. We feel that we are so much older than we used to be that it isn’t becoming to talk of childish matters. It’s such a solemn thing to be almost fourteen, Marilla. Miss Stacy took all us girls who are in our teens down to the brook last Wednesday, and talked to us about it. She said we couldn’t be too careful what habits we formed and what ideals we acquired in our teens, because by the time we were twenty our characters would be developed and the foundation laid for our whole future life. And she said if the foundation was shaky we could never build anything really worth while on it. Diana and I talked the matter over coming home from school. We felt extremely solemn, Marilla. And we decided that we would try to be very careful indeed and form respectable habits and learn all we could and be as sensible as possible, so that by the time we were twenty our characters would be properly developed. It’s perfectly appalling to think of being twenty, Marilla. It sounds so fearfully old and grown up. But why was Miss Stacy here this afternoon?’
‘是她吗？哦，很抱歉我没在。你为什么不打电话给我，玛丽拉？戴安娜和我只是在闹鬼森林里。现在树林里很可爱。所有的小木头植物——蕨类植物、缎子叶子和饼干——都已经睡着了，就像有人把它们藏在树叶下，直到春天到来一样。我想是一位戴着彩虹围巾的灰色小仙女在最后一个月光之夜蹑手蹑脚地来到这里并做到了这一点。不过，戴安娜对此并没有透露太多。戴安娜永远不会忘记她母亲对她想象鬼魂进入闹鬼森林的责骂。这对戴安娜的想象力产生了非常糟糕的影响。它毁了它。林德夫人说默特尔·贝尔是一个受苦的人。我问鲁比·吉利斯，为什么桃金娘会受到伤害，鲁比说她猜这是因为她的年轻人背叛了她。鲁比·吉利斯只想到年轻人，而且年纪越大，她的情况就越糟。年轻人都各司其职，但把他们拖入所有事情是不行的，不是吗？戴安娜和我正在认真考虑向对方承诺我们永远不会结婚，而是做个好老处女，永远生活在一起。但戴安娜还没有完全下定决心，因为她认为嫁给一个狂野、潇洒、邪恶的年轻人并改造他也许会更高尚。你知道，戴安娜和我现在谈论了很多严肃的话题。我们觉得自己比以前老了很多，不适合谈论幼稚的事情。玛丽拉，快十四岁了，这是一件多么庄严的事情。上周三，史黛西小姐带着我们所有十几岁的女孩来到小溪，和我们谈论了这件事。 她说，我们不能太在意自己在十几岁的时候养成了哪些习惯，树立了哪些理想，因为到了二十岁的时候，我们的性格就会形成，为我们以后的一生奠定基础。她说，如果基础不稳固，我们永远无法在其上建造任何真正有价值的东西。戴安娜和我在放学回家时讨论了这件事。我们感到非常庄严，玛丽拉。我们决定确实要非常小心，养成受人尊敬的习惯，学习我们能学到的一切，并尽可能明智，这样到我们二十岁的时候，我们的性格就会得到适当的发展。玛丽拉，一想到自己已经二十岁了，真是令人震惊。听起来是如此的苍老和成熟。但是史黛西小姐今天下午为什么会在这里呢？’

‘That is what I want to tell you, Anne, if you’ll ever give me a chance to get a word in edgewise. She was talking about you.’
“这就是我想告诉你的，安妮，如果你能给我一个插嘴的机会的话。”她在谈论你。

‘About me?’ Anne looked rather scared. Then she flushed and exclaimed:
“关于我的？”安妮看起来很害怕。然后她涨红了脸，惊呼道：

‘Oh, I know what she was saying. I meant to tell you, Marilla, honestly I did, but I forgot. Miss Stacy caught me reading Ben Hur in school yesterday afternoon when I should have been studying my Canadian history. Jane Andrews lent it to me. I was reading it at dinner hour, and I had just got to the chariot race when school went in. I was simply wild to know how it turned out— although I felt sure Ben Hur must win, because it wouldn’t be poetical justice if he didn’t—so I spread the history open on my desk lid and then tucked Ben Hur between the desk and my knee. I just looked as if I were studying Canadian history, you know, while all the while I was reveling in Ben Hur. I was so interested in it that I never noticed Miss Stacy coming down the aisle until all at once I just looked up and there she was looking down at me, so reproachful-like. I can’t tell you how ashamed I felt, Marilla, especially when I heard Josie Pye giggling. Miss Stacy took Ben Hur away, but she never said a word then. She kept me in at recess and talked to me. She said I had done very wrong in two respects. First, I was wasting the time I ought to have put on my studies; and secondly, I was deceiving my teacher in trying to make it appear I was reading a history when it was a storybook instead. I had never realized until that moment, Marilla, that what I was doing was deceitful. I was shocked. I cried bitterly, and asked Miss Stacy to forgive me and I’d never do such a thing again; and I offered to do penance by never so much as looking at Ben Hur for a whole week, not even to see how the chariot race turned out. But Miss Stacy said she wouldn’t require that, and she forgave me freely. So I think it wasn’t very kind of her to come up here to you about it after all.’
‘哦，我知道她在说什么。我本想告诉你，玛丽拉，老实说我是这么做的，但我忘了。昨天下午，史黛西小姐发现我在学校读《宾虚》，当时我本应该学习加拿大历史。简·安德鲁斯把它借给了我。我在晚餐时间读这本书，学校开学时我刚刚参加战车比赛。我很想知道结果如何——尽管我确信宾虚一定会赢，因为这不是诗意的正义如果他不这样做——那么我就把历史书摊开在我的桌盖上，然后把《宾虚》塞在桌子和膝盖之间。你知道，我看起来就像是在研究加拿大历史，而我一直在陶醉在《宾虚》中。我对此非常感兴趣，以至于我从来没有注意到史黛西小姐从过道上走过来，直到我突然抬起头，发现她正低头看着我，语气充满责备。我无法告诉你我有多羞愧，玛丽拉，尤其是当我听到乔西·派伊咯咯地笑时。史黛西小姐带走了宾虚，但她当时什么也没说。她让我在课间休息时和我说话。她说我在两方面做得非常错误。首先，我浪费了我应该花在学习上的时间；其次，我欺骗了我的老师，试图让他看起来我在读一本历史，而实际上它是一本故事书。直到那一刻我才意识到，玛丽拉，我所做的是欺骗性的。我很震惊。我痛哭流涕，请求史黛西小姐原谅我，我再也不会做这样的事了。我提出忏悔，连看《宾虚》整整一周都不看，甚至连战车比赛的结果都不看。但史黛西小姐说她不会要求那样，并且她自由地原谅了我。所以我认为她来这里向你谈论这件事毕竟不太好。”

‘Miss Stacy never mentioned such a thing to me, Anne, and its only your guilty conscience that’s the matter with you. You have no business to be taking storybooks to school. You read too many novels anyhow. When I was a girl I wasn’t so much as allowed to look at a novel.’
“安妮，史黛西小姐从来没有向我提起过这样的事，你的问题只是你的内疚感而已。”你没有权利把故事书带到学校。反正你小说看太多了。当我还是个女孩的时候，我根本不被允许看小说。

‘Oh, how can you call Ben Hur a novel when it’s really such a religious book?’ protested Anne. ‘Of course it’s a little too exciting to be proper reading for Sunday, and I only read it on weekdays. And I never read ANY book now unless either Miss Stacy or Mrs. Allan thinks it is a proper book for a girl thirteen and three-quarters to read. Miss Stacy made me promise that. She found me reading a book one day called, The Lurid Mystery of the Haunted Hall. It was one Ruby Gillis had lent me, and, oh, Marilla, it was so fascinating and creepy. It just curdled the blood in my veins. But Miss Stacy said it was a very silly, unwholesome book, and she asked me not to read any more of it or any like it. I didn’t mind promising not to read any more like it, but it was AGONIZING to give back that book without knowing how it turned out. But my love for Miss Stacy stood the test and I did. It’s really wonderful, Marilla, what you can do when you’re truly anxious to please a certain person.’
“噢，《宾虚》实际上是一本宗教书籍，你怎么能称其为小说呢？”安妮抗议道。 “当然，这有点太令人兴奋了，不适合在周日阅读，而且我只在工作日阅读。我现在从来没有读过任何书，除非史黛西小姐或艾伦夫人认为这是一本适合十三又四分之三的女孩阅读的书。史黛西小姐让我答应了这一点。有一天，她发现我正在读一本书，书名叫《闹鬼大厅的耸人听闻之谜》。这是鲁比·吉利斯借给我的一本，哦，玛丽拉，它是如此迷人和令人毛骨悚然。它只是让我血管里的血液凝固了。但史黛西小姐说这是一本非常愚蠢、不健康的书，她要求我不要再读它或任何类似的书。我不介意承诺不再阅读类似的书，但在不知道结果如何的情况下归还那本书真是令人痛苦。但我对史黛西小姐的爱经受住了考验，我也做到了。玛丽拉，当你真正渴望取悦某个人时，你能做些什么，这真是太棒了。”

‘Well, I guess I’ll light the lamp and get to work,’ said Marilla. ‘I see plainly that you don’t want to hear what Miss Stacy had to say. You’re more interested in the sound of your own tongue than in anything else.’
“好吧，我想我会点灯开始工作，”马里拉说。 “我清楚地看出你不想听史黛西小姐要说的话。你对自己舌头的声音比对其他任何东西都更感兴趣。

‘Oh, indeed, Marilla, I do want to hear it,’ cried Anne contritely. ‘I won’t say another word—not one. I know I talk too much, but I am really trying to overcome it, and although I say far too much, yet if you only knew how many things I want to say and don’t, you’d give me some credit for it. Please tell me, Marilla.’
“哦，确实如此，玛丽拉，我确实想听听。”安妮悔恨地喊道。 “我不会再说一个字——一个字也不会。”我知道我说得太多了，但我真的在努力克服它，虽然我说得太多了，但如果你知道我想说和不说的话，你就会给我一些信任。请告诉我，玛丽拉。”

‘Well, Miss Stacy wants to organize a class among her advanced students who mean to study for the entrance examination into Queen’s. She intends to give them extra lessons for an hour after school. And she came to ask Matthew and me if we would like to have you join it. What do you think about it yourself, Anne? Would you like to go to Queen’s and pass for a teacher?’
“嗯，史黛西小姐想在她的高年级学生中组织一个班级，这些学生打算参加女王大学的入学考试。她打算放学后给他们补课一个小时。她来问马修和我是否愿意让你加入。安妮，你自己对此有何看法？你愿意去女王大学当老师吗？

‘Oh, Marilla!’ Anne straightened to her knees and clasped her hands. ‘It’s been the dream of my life—that is, for the last six months, ever since Ruby and Jane began to talk of studying for the Entrance. But I didn’t say anything about it, because I supposed it would be perfectly useless. I’d love to be a teacher. But won’t it be dreadfully expensive? Mr. Andrews says it cost him one hundred and fifty dollars to put Prissy through, and Prissy wasn’t a dunce in geometry.’
“哦，玛丽拉！”安妮直起身子，双手紧握。 “自从鲁比和简开始谈论为入学而学习以来，这一直是我一生的梦想。”但我没有对此说什么，因为我认为这毫无用处。我很想成为一名老师。但会不会贵得吓人？安德鲁斯先生说他花了一百五十美元才让普里西通过，而普里西在几何学上并不是一个笨蛋。

‘I guess you needn’t worry about that part of it. When Matthew and I took you to bring up we resolved we would do the best we could for you and give you a good education. I believe in a girl being fitted to earn her own living whether she ever has to or not. You’ll always have a home at Green Gables as long as Matthew and I are here, but nobody knows what is going to happen in this uncertain world, and it’s just as well to be prepared. So you can join the Queen’s class if you like, Anne.’
“我想你不必担心这一部分。当我和马修带你长大时，我们决定尽我们所能为你提供最好的教育。我相信一个女孩无论是否需要，都适合自己谋生。只要我和马修在这里，你就永远在绿山墙有一个家，但没有人知道这个不确定的世界会发生什么，所以最好做好准备。所以，如果你愿意的话，你可以加入女王的班级，安妮。”

‘Oh, Marilla, thank you.’ Anne flung her arms about Marilla’s waist and looked up earnestly into her face. ‘I’m extremely grateful to you and Matthew. And I’ll study as hard as I can and do my very best to be a credit to you. I warn you not to expect much in geometry, but I think I can hold my own in anything else if I work hard.’
“哦，玛丽拉，谢谢你。”安妮用双臂搂住玛丽拉的腰，抬头认真地看着她的脸。 “我非常感谢你和马修。我会尽我所能地努力学习，并尽我最大的努力为您争光。我警告你不要对几何抱有太大期望，但我想如果我努力的话，我可以在其他任何事情上保持自己的水平。

‘I dare say you’ll get along well enough. Miss Stacy says you are bright and diligent.’ Not for worlds would Marilla have told Anne just what Miss Stacy had said about her; that would have been to pamper vanity. ‘You needn’t rush to any extreme of killing yourself over your books. There is no hurry. You won’t be ready to try the Entrance for a year and a half yet. But it’s well to begin in time and be thoroughly grounded, Miss Stacy says.’
“我敢说你们会相处得很好。史黛西小姐说你很聪明，也很勤奋。”玛丽拉无论如何也不会告诉安妮史黛西小姐对她的评价。那是为了满足虚荣心。 ‘你不必急于为了你的书而自杀。不用着急。你还需要一年半的时间才能准备好尝试入口。但最好及时开始并彻底扎根，史黛西小姐说。

‘I shall take more interest than ever in my studies now,’ said Anne blissfully, ‘because I have a purpose in life. Mr. Allan says everybody should have a purpose in life and pursue it faithfully. Only he says we must first make sure that it is a worthy purpose. I would call it a worthy purpose to want to be a teacher like Miss Stacy, wouldn’t you, Marilla? I think it’s a very noble profession.’
“我现在对学习会比以往更加感兴趣，”安妮幸福地说，“因为我的人生有了目标。”艾伦先生说每个人都应该有一个人生目标并忠实地追求它。只是他说我们必须首先确保这是一个有价值的目标。我认为想成为一名像史黛西小姐那样的老师是一个有价值的目标，不是吗，玛丽拉？我认为这是一个非常崇高的职业。”

The Queen’s class was organized in due time. Gilbert Blythe, Anne Shirley, Ruby Gillis, Jane Andrews, Josie Pye, Charlie Sloane, and Moody Spurgeon MacPherson joined it. Diana Barry did not, as her parents did not intend to send her to Queen’s. This seemed nothing short of a calamity to Anne. Never, since the night on which Minnie May had had the croup, had she and Diana been separated in anything. On the evening when the Queen’s class first remained in school for the extra lessons and Anne saw Diana go slowly out with the others, to walk home alone through the Birch Path and Violet Vale, it was all the former could do to keep her seat and refrain from rushing impulsively after her chum. A lump came into her throat, and she hastily retired behind the pages of her uplifted Latin grammar to hide the tears in her eyes. Not for worlds would Anne have had Gilbert Blythe or Josie Pye see those tears.
女王班如期举办。吉尔伯特·布莱斯、安妮·雪莉、鲁比·吉利斯、简·安德鲁斯、乔西·派伊、查理·斯隆和穆迪·司布金·麦克弗森也加入了其中。戴安娜·巴里没有，因为她的父母不打算送她去女王大学。这对安妮来说简直就是一场灾难。自从米妮·梅患哮吼那天晚上以来，她和戴安娜从未在任何事情上分开过。那天晚上，女王班第一次留在学校补课，安妮看到戴安娜和其他人一起慢慢出去，独自穿过白桦林小径和紫罗兰谷步行回家，前者所能做的就是保住座位，不要冲动地追赶她的朋友。她的喉咙哽住了，她赶紧退到那本高深莫测的拉丁语法书后面，以隐藏眼中的泪水。安妮绝对不会让吉尔伯特·布莱斯或乔西·派伊看到那些眼泪。

‘But, oh, Marilla, I really felt that I had tasted the bitterness of death, as Mr. Allan said in his sermon last Sunday, when I saw Diana go out alone,’ she said mournfully that night. ‘I thought how splendid it would have been if Diana had only been going to study for the Entrance, too. But we can’t have things perfect in this imperfect world, as Mrs. Lynde says. Mrs. Lynde isn’t exactly a comforting person sometimes, but there’s no doubt she says a great many very true things. And I think the Queen’s class is going to be extremely interesting. Jane and Ruby are just going to study to be teachers. That is the height of their ambition. Ruby says she will only teach for two years after she gets through, and then she intends to be married. Jane says she will devote her whole life to teaching, and never, never marry, because you are paid a salary for teaching, but a husband won’t pay you anything, and growls if you ask for a share in the egg and butter money. I expect Jane speaks from mournful experience, for Mrs. Lynde says that her father is a perfect old crank, and meaner than second skimmings. Josie Pye says she is just going to college for education’s sake, because she won’t have to earn her own living; she says of course it is different with orphans who are living on charity—THEY have to hustle. Moody Spurgeon is going to be a minister. Mrs. Lynde says he couldn’t be anything else with a name like that to live up to. I hope it isn’t wicked of me, Marilla, but really the thought of Moody Spurgeon being a minister makes me laugh. He’s such a funny-looking boy with that big fat face, and his little blue eyes, and his ears sticking out like flaps. But perhaps he will be more intellectual looking when he grows up. Charlie Sloane says he’s going to go into politics and be a member of Parliament, but Mrs. Lynde says he’ll never succeed at that, because the Sloanes are all honest people, and it’s only rascals that get on in politics nowadays.’
“但是，哦，玛丽拉，正如艾伦先生在上周日的布道中所说，当我看到戴安娜独自外出时，我真的感觉到我尝到了死亡的苦涩，”那天晚上她悲伤地说。 “我想，如果戴安娜也去学习入学考试，那该多好啊。”但正如林德夫人所说，在这个不完美的世界里，我们不可能让事情变得完美。林德夫人有时并不是一个令人安慰的人，但毫无疑问她说了很多非常真实的话。我认为女王的课程将会非常有趣。简和鲁比即将学习成为一名教师。这就是他们野心的高度。鲁比说，毕业后她只会教两年书，然后就打算结婚了。简说她将一生奉献给教学，永远永远不会结婚，因为你拿着教学工资，但丈夫不会付你任何钱，如果你要求分享鸡蛋和黄油钱，他会咆哮。我认为简是出于悲痛的经历而说的，因为林德夫人说她的父亲是个完美的老怪人，而且比第二次略读还要刻薄。乔西·派伊 (Josie Pye) 说，她上大学只是为了接受教育，因为她不必自己谋生。她说，当然，这与依靠慈善机构生活的孤儿不同——他们必须努力奋斗。穆迪·司布真将成为一名牧师。林德夫人说，拥有这样的名字，他不可能成为任何其他人。我希望我不是邪恶的，玛丽拉，但穆迪·司布真成为牧师的想法确实让我发笑。他是一个长相滑稽的男孩，有着那张胖胖的脸，一双蓝色的小眼睛，耳朵像翅膀一样伸出来。但也许长大后他会显得更加知性。 查理·斯隆说他要从政，成为一名国会议员，但林德夫人说他永远不会成功，因为斯隆一家都是诚实的人，现在只有流氓才能在政界混日子。’

‘What is Gilbert Blythe going to be?’ queried Marilla, seeing that Anne was opening her Caesar.
“吉尔伯特·布莱斯会是什么样子？”玛丽拉问道，看到安妮正在打开她的凯撒。

‘I don’t happen to know what Gilbert Blythe’s ambition in life is— if he has any,’ said Anne scornfully.
“我不知道吉尔伯特·布莱斯的人生抱负是什么——如果他有的话，”安妮轻蔑地说。

There was open rivalry between Gilbert and Anne now. Previously the rivalry had been rather onesided, but there was no longer any doubt that Gilbert was as determined to be first in class as Anne was. He was a foeman worthy of her steel. The other members of the class tacitly acknowledged their superiority, and never dreamed of trying to compete with them.
吉尔伯特和安妮之间现在存在着公开的竞争。之前的竞争相当一边倒，但毫无疑问，吉尔伯特和安妮一样决心要获得班上第一。他是一个值得她钢铁般对待的敌人。班里的其他同学都默认了他们的优势，从来没有想过要与他们竞争。

Since the day by the pond when she had refused to listen to his plea for forgiveness, Gilbert, save for the aforesaid determined rivalry, had evinced no recognition whatever of the existence of Anne Shirley. He talked and jested with the other girls, exchanged books and puzzles with them, discussed lessons and plans, sometimes walked home with one or the other of them from prayer meeting or Debating Club. But Anne Shirley he simply ignored, and Anne found out that it is not pleasant to be ignored. It was in vain that she told herself with a toss of her head that she did not care. Deep down in her wayward, feminine little heart she knew that she did care, and that if she had that chance of the Lake of Shining Waters again she would answer very differently. All at once, as it seemed, and to her secret dismay, she found that the old resentment she had cherished against him was gone—gone just when she most needed its sustaining power. It was in vain that she recalled every incident and emotion of that memorable occasion and tried to feel the old satisfying anger. That day by the pond had witnessed its last spasmodic flicker. Anne realized that she had forgiven and forgotten without knowing it. But it was too late.
自从那天在池塘边拒绝听他的宽恕请求以来，除了上述坚决的竞争之外，吉尔伯特就没有表现出任何对安妮雪莉存在的认可。他与其他女孩交谈和开玩笑，与她们交换书籍和拼图，讨论课程和计划，有时与她们中的一个或另一个一起从祈祷会或辩论俱乐部步行回家。但安妮·雪莉他却干脆不理睬，安妮发现被忽视的感觉并不愉快。她摇摇头告诉自己自己不在乎，但徒劳无功。在她那颗任性、女性化的小内心深处，她知道自己确实在乎，如果她再次有机会来到光辉湖，她会做出截然不同的回答。突然间，令她暗自沮丧的是，她发现自己对他怀有的怨恨消失了——就在她最需要它的支撑力量的时候消失了。她徒劳地回忆起那个难忘时刻的每一个事件和情感，并试图感受过去令人满足的愤怒。那天，池塘边见证了它最后一次痉挛般的闪烁。安妮意识到她在不知不觉中已经原谅并忘记了。但为时已晚。

And at least neither Gilbert nor anybody else, not even Diana, should ever suspect how sorry she was and how much she wished she hadn’t been so proud and horrid! She determined to ‘shroud her feelings in deepest oblivion,’ and it may be stated here and now that she did it, so successfully that Gilbert, who possibly was not quite so indifferent as he seemed, could not console himself with any belief that Anne felt his retaliatory scorn. The only poor comfort he had was that she snubbed Charlie Sloane, unmercifully, continually, and undeservedly.
至少吉尔伯特和其他任何人，甚至戴安娜，都不应该怀疑她有多么抱歉，以及她多么希望自己没有那么骄傲和可怕！她决定“把自己的感情隐藏在最深的遗忘中”，可以说，她做到了，如此成功，以至于吉尔伯特（他可能并不像他看起来那么冷漠）无法用任何相信安妮的信念来安慰自己。感受到他报复性的蔑视。唯一让他感到安慰的是，她无情地、不断地、不应该地冷落查理·斯隆。

Otherwise the winter passed away in a round of pleasant duties and studies. For Anne the days slipped by like golden beads on the necklace of the year. She was happy, eager, interested; there were lessons to be learned and honor to be won; delightful books to read; new pieces to be practiced for the Sunday-school choir; pleasant Saturday afternoons at the manse with Mrs. Allan; and then, almost before Anne realized it, spring had come again to Green Gables and all the world was abloom once more.
除此之外，冬天就在一系列愉快的工作和学习中过去了。对于安妮来说，日子就像当年项链上的金珠一样流逝。她很高兴、很渴望、很感兴趣。有需要吸取的教训，有需要赢得的荣誉；令人愉快的书籍值得一读；为主日学校合唱团练习的新作品；与艾伦夫人在庄园里度过了愉快的周六下午；然后，几乎在安妮意识到之前，春天又来到了绿山墙，整个世界再次生机勃勃。

Studies palled just a wee bit then; the Queen’s class, left behind in school while the others scattered to green lanes and leafy wood cuts and meadow byways, looked wistfully out of the windows and discovered that Latin verbs and French exercises had somehow lost the tang and zest they had possessed in the crisp winter months. Even Anne and Gilbert lagged and grew indifferent. Teacher and taught were alike glad when the term was ended and the glad vacation days stretched rosily before them.
那时的研究只是一点点乏味。女王班的学生被留在学校里，而其他学生则分散到绿色的小巷、绿树成荫的树林和草地小道上，他们若有所思地向窗外望去，发现拉丁语动词和法语练习不知何故失去了他们在清脆的语言中所拥有的味道和热情。冬季。就连安妮和吉尔伯特也落后了，变得冷漠起来。当学期结束时，老师和老师们都很高兴，愉快的假期在他们面前展开。

‘But you’ve done good work this past year,’ Miss Stacy told them on the last evening, ‘and you deserve a good, jolly vacation. Have the best time you can in the out-of-door world and lay in a good stock of health and vitality and ambition to carry you through next year. It will be the tug of war, you know—the last year before the Entrance.’
“但是你们在过去的一年里做得很好，”史黛西小姐在最后一个晚上告诉他们，“你们应该享受一个美好而快乐的假期。”在户外世界中度过最美好的时光，并储备充足的健康、活力和雄心来支撑你度过明年。你知道，这将是一场拉锯战——这是入学前的最后一年。

‘Are you going to be back next year, Miss Stacy?’ asked Josie Pye.
“史黛西小姐，你明年会回来吗？”乔西·派伊问道。

Josie Pye never scrupled to ask questions; in this instance the rest of the class felt grateful to her; none of them would have dared to ask it of Miss Stacy, but all wanted to, for there had been alarming rumors running at large through the school for some time that Miss Stacy was not coming back the next year—that she had been offered a position in the grade school of her own home district and meant to accept. The Queen’s class listened in breathless suspense for her answer.
乔西·派伊（Josie Pye）从不吝啬提问。在这种情况下，班上的其他人都对她表示感激。没有人敢向史黛西小姐提出这个问题，但所有人都想这么做，因为一段时间以来，学校里一直流传着令人震惊的谣言，史黛西小姐明年不会回来了——有人向她提供了一个她在自己所在地区的小学中获得了职位，并打算接受。女王的班级屏息凝神地听着她的回答。

‘Yes, I think I will,’ said Miss Stacy. ‘I thought of taking another school, but I have decided to come back to Avonlea. To tell the truth, I’ve grown so interested in my pupils here that I found I couldn’t leave them. So I’ll stay and see you through.’
“是的，我想我会的，”史黛西小姐说。 “我想过去另一所学校，但我决定回到埃文利。说实话，我对这里的学生越来越感兴趣，以至于我发现我无法离开他们。所以我会留下来陪你度过难关。

‘Hurrah!’ said Moody Spurgeon. Moody Spurgeon had never been so carried away by his feelings before, and he blushed uncomfortably every time he thought about it for a week.
“万岁！”穆迪·司布真说。穆迪·司布真从来没有这么被自己的感情冲昏头脑，一星期以来，每次想到这件事，他都会脸红得不自在。

‘Oh, I’m so glad,’ said Anne, with shining eyes. ‘Dear Stacy, it would be perfectly dreadful if you didn’t come back. I don’t believe I could have the heart to go on with my studies at all if another teacher came here.’
“哦，我太高兴了，”安妮眼睛闪闪发亮地说。 “亲爱的史黛西，如果你不回来，那就太可怕了。我不相信如果有另一位老师来到这里，我根本没有心思继续学习。”

When Anne got home that night she stacked all her textbooks away in an old trunk in the attic, locked it, and threw the key into the blanket box.
那天晚上安妮回到家后，她把所有的课本都堆放在阁楼的一个旧箱子里，锁上它，然后把钥匙扔进毯子箱里。

‘I’m not even going to look at a schoolbook in vacation,’ she told Marilla. ‘I’ve studied as hard all the term as I possibly could and I’ve pored over that geometry until I know every proposition in the first book off by heart, even when the letters ARE changed. I just feel tired of everything sensible and I’m going to let my imagination run riot for the summer. Oh, you needn’t be alarmed, Marilla. I’ll only let it run riot within reasonable limits. But I want to have a real good jolly time this summer, for maybe it’s the last summer I’ll be a little girl. Mrs. Lynde says that if I keep stretching out next year as I’ve done this I’ll have to put on longer skirts. She says I’m all running to legs and eyes. And when I put on longer skirts I shall feel that I have to live up to them and be very dignified. It won’t even do to believe in fairies then, I’m afraid; so I’m going to believe in them with all my whole heart this summer. I think we’re going to have a very gay vacation. Ruby Gillis is going to have a birthday party soon and there’s the Sunday school picnic and the missionary concert next month. And Mrs. Barry says that some evening he’ll take Diana and me over to the White Sands Hotel and have dinner there. They have dinner there in the evening, you know. Jane Andrews was over once last summer and she says it was a dazzling sight to see the electric lights and the flowers and all the lady guests in such beautiful dresses. Jane says it was her first glimpse into high life and she’ll never forget it to her dying day.’
“我什至不会在假期里看课本，”她告诉玛丽拉。 “我尽可能努力地学习了所有术语，并且仔细研究了几何学，直到我熟记第一本书中的每个命题，即使字母发生了变化。我只是对一切明智的事情感到厌倦，我打算在夏天尽情发挥我的想象力。哦，你不必惊慌，玛丽拉。我只会让它在合理范围内肆意妄为。但我想在今年夏天度过一段真正快乐的时光，因为也许这是我作为一个小女孩的最后一个夏天。林德夫人说，如果我明年继续像以前那样伸展身体，我将不得不穿更长的裙子。她说我都在跑腿和眼睛。当我穿上更长的裙子时，我会觉得我必须辜负它们，并且必须非常有尊严。恐怕连相信仙女都行不通了；所以今年夏天我将全心全意地相信他们。我想我们将会度过一个非常愉快的假期。鲁比·吉利斯很快就要举办生日聚会，下个月还有主日学校野餐和传教士音乐会。巴里夫人说有一天晚上他会带戴安娜和我去白沙酒店并在那里吃晚饭。你知道，他们晚上在那里吃晚饭。简·安德鲁斯去年夏天来过一次，她说看到电灯、鲜花和所有穿着如此漂亮衣服的女嘉宾真是令人眼花缭乱。简说，这是她第一次看到上流生活，她永远不会忘记它，直到她去世的那一天。

Mrs. Lynde came up the next afternoon to find out why Marilla had not been at the Aid meeting on Thursday. When Marilla was not at Aid meeting people knew there was something wrong at Green Gables.
第二天下午，林德夫人来询问玛丽拉为何没有参加周四的援助会议。当玛丽拉没有参加援助会议时，人们就知道绿山墙出了问题。

‘Matthew had a bad spell with his heart Thursday,’ Marilla explained, ‘and I didn’t feel like leaving him. Oh, yes, he’s all right again now, but he takes them spells oftener than he used to and I’m anxious about him. The doctor says he must be careful to avoid excitement. That’s easy enough, for Matthew doesn’t go about looking for excitement by any means and never did, but he’s not to do any very heavy work either and you might as well tell Matthew not to breathe as not to work. Come and lay off your things, Rachel. You’ll stay to tea?’
“周四马修的心脏不太好，”玛丽拉解释道，“我不想离开他。哦，是的，他现在已经好了，但他比以前更频繁地使用咒语，我很担心他。医生说他必须小心避免兴奋。这很容易，因为马修不会以任何方式寻找刺激，也从来没有这样做过，但他也不会做任何非常繁重的工作，你不妨告诉马修不要呼吸，就像不要工作一样。来吧，放下你的东西，雷切尔。你会留下来喝茶吗？

‘Well, seeing you’re so pressing, perhaps I might as well, stay’ said Mrs. Rachel, who had not the slightest intention of doing anything else.
“好吧，看你这么急，也许我还是留下来吧，”雷切尔太太说道，她没有丝毫做任何事的打算。

Mrs. Rachel and Marilla sat comfortably in the parlor while Anne got the tea and made hot biscuits that were light and white enough to defy even Mrs. Rachel’s criticism.
雷切尔夫人和玛丽拉舒适地坐在客厅里，安妮倒了茶，制作了热饼干，这些饼干又轻又白，足以无视雷切尔夫人的批评。

‘I must say Anne has turned out a real smart girl,’ admitted Mrs. Rachel, as Marilla accompanied her to the end of the lane at sunset. ‘She must be a great help to you.’
“我必须说安妮是一个真正聪明的女孩，”雷切尔夫人承认道，日落时分，玛丽拉陪着她走到了小巷的尽头。 “她一定对你有很大帮助。”

‘She is,’ said Marilla, ‘and she’s real steady and reliable now. I used to be afraid she’d never get over her featherbrained ways, but she has and I wouldn’t be afraid to trust her in anything now.’
“是的，”玛丽拉说，“她现在真的很稳定、可靠。”我曾经担心她永远无法克服自己轻率的行为，但她已经克服了，现在我不会害怕在任何事情上相信她。

‘I never would have thought she’d have turned out so well that first day I was here three years ago,’ said Mrs. Rachel. ‘Lawful heart, shall I ever forget that tantrum of hers! When I went home that night I says to Thomas, says I, ‘Mark my words, Thomas, Marilla Cuthbert’ll live to rue the step she’s took.’ But I was mistaken and I’m real glad of it. I ain’t one of those kind of people, Marilla, as can never be brought to own up that they’ve made a mistake. No, that never was my way, thank goodness. I did make a mistake in judging Anne, but it weren’t no wonder, for an odder, unexpecteder witch of a child there never was in this world, that’s what. There was no ciphering her out by the rules that worked with other children. It’s nothing short of wonderful how she’s improved these three years, but especially in looks. She’s a real pretty girl got to be, though I can’t say I’m overly partial to that pale, big-eyed style myself. I like more snap and color, like Diana Barry has or Ruby Gillis. Ruby Gillis’s looks are real showy. But somehow—I don’t know how it is but when Anne and them are together, though she ain’t half as handsome, she makes them look kind of common and overdone— something like them white June lilies she calls narcissus alongside of the big, red peonies, that’s what.’
“三年前我来这里的第一天，我从来没有想到她会表现得这么好，”雷切尔夫人说。 ‘守序的心啊，我永远不会忘记她的脾气！那天晚上我回家后，我对托马斯说，“记住我的话，托马斯，玛丽拉·库斯伯特将会为她所采取的步骤感到后悔。”但我错了，我真的很高兴。我不是那种人，玛丽拉，我永远不会承认自己犯了错误。不，那从来不是我的方式，谢天谢地。我对安妮的判断确实犯了一个错误，但这并不奇怪，对于这个世界上从未有过的更奇怪、更出乎意料的孩子女巫来说，就是这样。与其他孩子相处的规则并不能把她排除在外。这三年来她的进步实在是太棒了，尤其是在外表方面。她确实是一个非常漂亮的女孩，尽管我自己也不能说我太偏爱那种苍白、大眼睛的风格。我喜欢更多的快照和色彩，就像戴安娜·巴里或鲁比·吉利斯那样。鲁比·吉利斯 (Ruby Gillis) 的造型确实很艳丽。但不知何故——我不知道这是怎么回事，但当安妮和他们在一起时，虽然她没有一半英俊，但她让他们看起来有点普通和过分——就像那些白色的六月百合，她称之为水仙花，旁边还有水仙花。又大又红的牡丹，就是这样。”

Chapter XXXI
第三十一章


Where the Brook and River Meet
小溪与河流交汇的地方

Anne had her ‘good’ summer and enjoyed it wholeheartedly. She and Diana fairly lived outdoors, reveling in all the delights that Lover’s Lane and the Dryad’s Bubble and Willowmere and Victoria Island afforded. Marilla offered no objections to Anne’s gypsyings. The Spencervale doctor who had come the night Minnie May had the croup met Anne at the house of a patient one afternoon early in vacation, looked her over sharply, screwed up his mouth, shook his head, and sent a message to Marilla Cuthbert by another person. It was:
安妮度过了一个“美好”的夏天，并且全心全意地享受着它。她和戴安娜几乎都生活在户外，陶醉在情人巷、树精泡泡、威洛米尔和维多利亚岛所提供的所有乐趣中。玛丽拉对安妮的吉普赛生活没有提出异议。明妮·梅患哮吼的那天晚上，斯宾塞维尔的医生在假期的一个下午早些时候在一位病人家里见到了安妮，他锐利地打量了她一眼，抿紧了嘴，摇了摇头，然后用另一个人给玛丽拉·库斯伯特发了一条信息。人。它是：

‘Keep that redheaded girl of yours in the open air all summer and don’t let her read books until she gets more spring into her step.’
“让你的那个红发女孩整个夏天都待在户外，不要让她读书，直到她的步伐更加灵活。”

This message frightened Marilla wholesomely. She read Anne’s death warrant by consumption in it unless it was scrupulously obeyed. As a result, Anne had the golden summer of her life as far as freedom and frolic went. She walked, rowed, berried, and dreamed to her heart’s content; and when September came she was bright-eyed and alert, with a step that would have satisfied the Spencervale doctor and a heart full of ambition and zest once more.
这个消息让马瑞拉彻底害怕了。她在书中宣读了安妮的肺痨死亡令，除非她严格遵守。结果，安妮度过了她一生中自由和嬉闹的黄金夏天。她尽情地散步、划船、采摘浆果、做梦。当九月来临的时候，她眼睛明亮，警觉，迈出的步伐会让斯宾塞维尔的医生感到满意，她的心再次充满了野心和热情。

‘I feel just like studying with might and main,’ she declared as she brought her books down from the attic. ‘Oh, you good old friends, I’m glad to see your honest faces once more—yes, even you, geometry. I’ve had a perfectly beautiful summer, Marilla, and now I’m rejoicing as a strong man to run a race, as Mr. Allan said last Sunday. Doesn’t Mr. Allan preach magnificent sermons? Mrs. Lynde says he is improving every day and the first thing we know some city church will gobble him up and then we’ll be left and have to turn to and break in another green preacher. But I don’t see the use of meeting trouble halfway, do you, Marilla? I think it would be better just to enjoy Mr. Allan while we have him. If I were a man I think I’d be a minister. They can have such an influence for good, if their theology is sound; and it must be thrilling to preach splendid sermons and stir your hearers’ hearts. Why can’t women be ministers, Marilla? I asked Mrs. Lynde that and she was shocked and said it would be a scandalous thing. She said there might be female ministers in the States and she believed there was, but thank goodness we hadn’t got to that stage in Canada yet and she hoped we never would. But I don’t see why. I think women would make splendid ministers. When there is a social to be got up or a church tea or anything else to raise money the women have to turn to and do the work. I’m sure Mrs. Lynde can pray every bit as well as Superintendent Bell and I’ve no doubt she could preach too with a little practice.’
“我感觉就像全力以赴地学习一样，”她一边从阁楼上把书拿下来，一边宣称。 ‘哦，你们这些好老朋友，我很高兴再次看到你们诚实的面孔——是的，甚至是你们，几何学。我度过了一个非常美丽的夏天，马里拉，现在我很高兴作为一个坚强的人参加比赛，正如艾伦先生上周日所说的那样。艾伦先生的布道不是很精彩吗？林德夫人说他每天都在进步，我们知道的第一件事就是一些城市教会会吞掉他，然后我们就会被留下，不得不求助于另一位绿色传教士。但我不认为中途遇到麻烦有什么用，你觉得吗，玛丽拉？我认为在我们拥有艾伦先生的同时享受他会更好。如果我是一个男人，我想我会成为一名牧师。如果他们的神学是正确的，他们就可以产生这样的永久影响。宣讲精彩的布道并激发听众的心一定会令人兴奋。玛丽拉，为什么女性不能担任牧师？我问林德夫人这个问题，她很震惊，并说这将是一件可耻的事情。她说美国可能有女部长，她相信有，但谢天谢地，我们在加拿大还没有达到这个阶段，她希望我们永远不会。但我不明白为什么。我认为女性会成为出色的部长。当有社交活动、教堂茶会或其他需要筹集资金的活动时，妇女们必须求助并完成这项工作。我确信林德夫人可以像贝尔警监一样祈祷，而且我毫不怀疑她也可以通过一点练习来讲道。

‘Yes, I believe she could,’ said Marilla dryly. ‘She does plenty of unofficial preaching as it is. Nobody has much of a chance to go wrong in Avonlea with Rachel to oversee them.’
“是的，我相信她可以，”玛丽拉干巴巴地说。 “她确实做了很多非官方的讲道。在埃文利，有雷切尔监督，没有人有太多机会出错。

‘Marilla,’ said Anne in a burst of confidence, ‘I want to tell you something and ask you what you think about it. It has worried me terribly—on Sunday afternoons, that is, when I think specially about such matters. I do really want to be good; and when I’m with you or Mrs. Allan or Miss Stacy I want it more than ever and I want to do just what would please you and what you would approve of. But mostly when I’m with Mrs. Lynde I feel desperately wicked and as if I wanted to go and do the very thing she tells me I oughtn’t to do. I feel irresistibly tempted to do it. Now, what do you think is the reason I feel like that? Do you think it’s because I’m really bad and unregenerate?’
“玛丽拉，”安妮信心十足地说，“我想告诉你一些事情，并问你对此有何看法。这让我非常担心——在周日下午，也就是说，当我特别思考这些事情的时候。我真的很想成为一个好人；当我和你、艾伦夫人或史黛西小姐在一起时，我比以往任何时候都更想要它，我想做的只是让你高兴和你认可的事情。但大多数时候，当我和林德夫人在一起时，我感到非常邪恶，好像我想做她告诉我不应该做的事情。我感到无法抗拒地想要这样做。现在，你认为我有这种感觉的原因是什么？你认为这是因为我真的很坏并且没有重生吗？

Marilla looked dubious for a moment. Then she laughed.
玛丽拉一时显得有些怀疑。然后她笑了。

‘If you are I guess I am too, Anne, for Rachel often has that very effect on me. I sometimes think she’d have more of an influence for good, as you say yourself, if she didn’t keep nagging people to do right. There should have been a special commandment against nagging. But there, I shouldn’t talk so. Rachel is a good Christian woman and she means well. There isn’t a kinder soul in Avonlea and she never shirks her share of work.’
“如果你是，我想我也是，安妮，因为雷切尔经常对我产生这种影响。我有时认为，正如你自己所说，如果她不一直唠叨人们做正确的事，她会产生更大的积极影响。应该有一条特别的诫命，禁止唠叨。但在那里，我不应该这么说。雷切尔是一位优秀的基督徒女性，她的本意是好的。埃文利没有比她更善良的人了，她从不逃避自己的工作。

‘I’m very glad you feel the same,’ said Anne decidedly. ‘It’s so encouraging. I shan’t worry so much over that after this. But I dare say there’ll be other things to worry me. They keep coming up new all the time—things to perplex you, you know. You settle one question and there’s another right after. There are so many things to be thought over and decided when you’re beginning to grow up. It keeps me busy all the time thinking them over and deciding what is right. It’s a serious thing to grow up, isn’t it, Marilla? But when I have such good friends as you and Matthew and Mrs. Allan and Miss Stacy I ought to grow up successfully, and I’m sure it will be my own fault if I don’t. I feel it’s a great responsibility because I have only the one chance. If I don’t grow up right I can’t go back and begin over again. I’ve grown two inches this summer, Marilla. Mr. Gillis measured me at Ruby’s party. I’m so glad you made my new dresses longer. That dark-green one is so pretty and it was sweet of you to put on the flounce. Of course I know it wasn’t really necessary, but flounces are so stylish this fall and Josie Pye has flounces on all her dresses. I know I’ll be able to study better because of mine. I shall have such a comfortable feeling deep down in my mind about that flounce.’
“我很高兴你也有同样的感觉，”安妮斩钉截铁地说。 ‘这太令人鼓舞了。从此以后我就不会再为此担心了。但我敢说还有其他事情让我担心。它们总是不断出现新的东西——让你困惑的东西，你知道的。你解决了一个问题，紧接着又是另一个问题。当你开始成长时，有很多事情需要考虑和决定。这让我一直忙于思考并决定什么是正确的。成长是一件严肃的事情，不是吗，玛丽拉？但是当我有你、马修、艾伦夫人和史黛西小姐这样的好朋友时，我应该成功地成长，我确信如果我不成长，那将是我自己的错。我觉得这是一项重大的责任，因为我只有一次机会。如果我没有正确成长，我就无法回去重新开始。今年夏天我长高了两英寸，玛丽拉。吉利斯先生在鲁比的聚会上给我量了量。我很高兴你把我的新衣服做得更长。那件深绿色的衣服真漂亮，你穿上荷叶边真是太好了。当然，我知道这并不是真的必要，但荷叶边在今年秋天非常时尚，乔西·派伊 (Josie Pye) 在她的所有连衣裙上都采用了荷叶边。我知道因为我的努力，我能够学习得更好。我内心深处会对那条荷叶边有一种很舒服的感觉。

‘It’s worth something to have that,’ admitted Marilla.
“拥有它是值得的，”玛丽拉承认。

Miss Stacy came back to Avonlea school and found all her pupils eager for work once more. Especially did the Queen’s class gird up their loins for the fray, for at the end of the coming year, dimly shadowing their pathway already, loomed up that fateful thing known as ‘the Entrance,’ at the thought of which one and all felt their hearts sink into their very shoes. Suppose they did not pass! That thought was doomed to haunt Anne through the waking hours of that winter, Sunday afternoons inclusive, to the almost entire exclusion of moral and theological problems. When Anne had bad dreams she found herself staring miserably at pass lists of the Entrance exams, where Gilbert Blythe’s name was blazoned at the top and in which hers did not appear at all.
史黛西小姐回到埃文利学校，发现她所有的学生再次渴望工作。尤其是女王的阶级，他们为战斗做好了准备，因为在来年年底，他们的道路已经隐隐约约地出现了，那个被称为“入口”的致命事物隐约可见，一想到这个，所有人都感到他们的命运他们的心深深地陷在他们的鞋子里。假设他们没有通过！这个想法注定会在那个冬天的醒着的时候（包括周日下午）困扰着安妮，几乎完全排除了道德和神学问题。当安妮做噩梦时，她发现自己痛苦地盯着入学考试的及格名单，吉尔伯特·布莱斯的名字印在顶部，而她的名字根本没有出现。

But it was a jolly, busy, happy swift-flying winter. Schoolwork was as interesting, class rivalry as absorbing, as of yore. New worlds of thought, feeling, and ambition, fresh, fascinating fields of unexplored knowledge seemed to be opening out before Anne’s eager eyes.
但这是一个快乐、忙碌、幸福的冬天。学业和以前一样有趣，班级竞争也一样引人入胜。思想、情感和野心的新世界，未经探索的知识的新鲜而迷人的领域似乎正在安妮热切的眼前展开。

‘Hills peeped o’er hill and Alps on Alps arose.’
“山峦叠嶂，阿尔卑斯山上的阿尔卑斯山拔地而起。”

Much of all this was due to Miss Stacy’s tactful, careful, broadminded guidance. She led her class to think and explore and discover for themselves and encouraged straying from the old beaten paths to a degree that quite shocked Mrs. Lynde and the school trustees, who viewed all innovations on established methods rather dubiously.
这一切很大程度上归功于史黛西小姐机智、细心、宽广的指导。她带领全班同学自己思考、探索和发现，并鼓励偏离老路，其程度令林德夫人和学校董事会感到震惊，他们对所有基于既定方法的创新都持怀疑态度。

Apart from her studies Anne expanded socially, for Marilla, mindful of the Spencervale doctor’s dictum, no longer vetoed occasional outings. The Debating Club flourished and gave several concerts; there were one or two parties almost verging on grown-up affairs; there were sleigh drives and skating frolics galore.
除了学习之外，安妮还扩大了社交范围，因为玛丽拉注意到斯宾塞维尔医生的格言，不再拒绝偶尔的外出。辩论俱乐部蓬勃发展，举办了多场音乐会；有那么一两个聚会几乎已经接近成年人的事情了。那里有很多拉雪橇和滑冰的嬉戏活动。

Betweentimes Anne grew, shooting up so rapidly that Marilla was astonished one day, when they were standing side by side, to find the girl was taller than herself.
安妮长大了，长得如此之快，以至于有一天，当他们并排站着时，玛丽拉惊讶地发现这个女孩比她自己高。

‘Why, Anne, how you’ve grown!’ she said, almost unbelievingly. A sigh followed on the words. Marilla felt a queer regret over Anne’s inches. The child she had learned to love had vanished somehow and here was this tall, serious-eyed girl of fifteen, with the thoughtful brows and the proudly poised little head, in her place. Marilla loved the girl as much as she had loved the child, but she was conscious of a queer sorrowful sense of loss. And that night, when Anne had gone to prayer meeting with Diana, Marilla sat alone in the wintry twilight and indulged in the weakness of a cry. Matthew, coming in with a lantern, caught her at it and gazed at her in such consternation that Marilla had to laugh through her tears.
“哎呀，安妮，你长大了！”她几乎难以置信地说道。话音落下，随之而来的是一声叹息。玛丽拉对安妮的身高感到一种奇怪的遗憾。不知怎的，那个她已经学会爱的孩子已经消失了，取而代之的是这个身材高大、目光严肃的十五岁女孩，她有着深思熟虑的眉毛和骄傲地昂首挺胸的小脑袋。玛丽拉爱这个女孩就像她爱这个孩子一样，但她意识到一种奇怪的悲伤的失落感。那天晚上，当安​​妮和戴安娜去参加祈祷会时，玛丽拉独自坐在冬日的暮色中，无力地哭泣。马修提着灯笼进来，看见了她，惊愕地看着她，玛丽拉忍不住笑出了声。

‘I was thinking about Anne,’ she explained. ‘She’s got to be such a big girl—and she’ll probably be away from us next winter. I’ll miss her terrible.’
“我在想安妮，”她解释道。 “她一定是个大女孩了——明年冬天她可能就会离开我们。我会非常想念她的。

‘She’ll be able to come home often,’ comforted Matthew, to whom Anne was as yet and always would be the little, eager girl he had brought home from Bright River on that June evening four years before. ‘The branch railroad will be built to Carmody by that time.’
“她会经常回家的。”马修安慰道，对马修来说，安妮至今仍然是、永远是四年前那个六月的晚上他从布赖特河带回家的那个热切的小女孩。 “届时通往卡莫迪的支线铁路将建成。”

‘It won’t be the same thing as having her here all the time,’ sighed Marilla gloomily, determined to enjoy her luxury of grief uncomforted. ‘But there—men can’t understand these things!’
“这和让她一直待在这里是不一样的，”玛丽拉阴沉地叹了口气，决心享受她不受安慰的悲伤的奢侈。 “但是——人们无法理解这些事情！”

There were other changes in Anne no less real than the physical change. For one thing, she became much quieter. Perhaps she thought all the more and dreamed as much as ever, but she certainly talked less. Marilla noticed and commented on this also.
安妮身上还有其他一些变化，其真实性不亚于身体上的变化。一方面，她变得安静多了。也许她想得更多了，梦想也像以前一样多了，但她说话确实少了。玛丽拉也注意到了这一点并发表了评论。

‘You don’t chatter half as much as you used to, Anne, nor use half as many big words. What has come over you?’
“安妮，你的喋喋不休不再是以前的一半，大词也不再像以前那样多了。你怎么了？

Anne colored and laughed a little, as she dropped her book and looked dreamily out of the window, where big fat red buds were bursting out on the creeper in response to the lure of the spring sunshine.
安妮脸色红了，笑了一声，她放下书，梦幻般地望着窗外，爬山虎上长出了又大又红的花蕾，回应着春天阳光的诱惑。

‘I don’t know—I don’t want to talk as much,’ she said, denting her chin thoughtfully with her forefinger. ‘It’s nicer to think dear, pretty thoughts and keep them in one’s heart, like treasures. I don’t like to have them laughed at or wondered over. And somehow I don’t want to use big words any more. It’s almost a pity, isn’t it, now that I’m really growing big enough to say them if I did want to. It’s fun to be almost grown up in some ways, but it’s not the kind of fun I expected, Marilla. There’s so much to learn and do and think that there isn’t time for big words. Besides, Miss Stacy says the short ones are much stronger and better. She makes us write all our essays as simply as possible. It was hard at first. I was so used to crowding in all the fine big words I could think of—and I thought of any number of them. But I’ve got used to it now and I see it’s so much better.’
“我不知道——我不想说太多，”她说，用食指若有所思地压着下巴。 “最好的办法是思考亲爱的、美丽的想法，并将它们像珍宝一样藏在心里。”我不喜欢让他们嘲笑或好奇。不知何故，我不想再使用大词了。这几乎是一种遗憾，不是吗，现在我真的长大了，如果我愿意的话，可以说出来。在某些方面几乎长大是很有趣的，但这不是我期望的那种乐趣，玛丽拉。有太多东西需要学习、要做和思考，没有时间说大话。此外，史黛西小姐说短的更坚固、更好。她让我们尽可能简单地写所有的论文。起初很难。我已经习惯了把我能想到的所有美好的大词都塞进去——而且我想到了很多这样的词。但我现在已经习惯了，而且我发现它好多了。”

‘What has become of your story club? I haven’t heard you speak of it for a long time.’
‘你的故事俱乐部怎么样了？我已经很久没听你提起这件事了。”

‘The story club isn’t in existence any longer. We hadn’t time for it—and anyhow I think we had got tired of it. It was silly to be writing about love and murder and elopements and mysteries. Miss Stacy sometimes has us write a story for training in composition, but she won’t let us write anything but what might happen in Avonlea in our own lives, and she criticizes it very sharply and makes us criticize our own too. I never thought my compositions had so many faults until I began to look for them myself. I felt so ashamed I wanted to give up altogether, but Miss Stacy said I could learn to write well if I only trained myself to be my own severest critic. And so I am trying to.’
“故事俱乐部已经不复存在了。我们没有时间——无论如何，我认为我们已经厌倦了。写爱情、谋杀、私奔和神秘事件是愚蠢的。史黛西小姐有时会让我们写一个故事来训练作文，但她不会让我们写任何东西，除了我们自己生活中在埃文利可能发生的事情，她批评得非常尖锐，也让我们批评我们自己的故事。我从来没有想到我的作品有这么多的缺点，直到我开始自己寻找它们。我感到很羞愧，想完全放弃，但史黛西小姐说，只要我训练自己成为自己最严厉的批评者，我就可以学好写作。所以我正在努力。

‘You’ve only two more months before the Entrance,’ said Marilla. ‘Do you think you’ll be able to get through?’
“距离入学只有两个月的时间了，”玛丽拉说。 “你觉得你能挺过去吗？”

Anne shivered.
安妮浑身发抖。

‘I don’t know. Sometimes I think I’ll be all right—and then I get horribly afraid. We’ve studied hard and Miss Stacy has drilled us thoroughly, but we mayn’t get through for all that. We’ve each got a stumbling block. Mine is geometry of course, and Jane’s is Latin, and Ruby and Charlie’s is algebra, and Josie’s is arithmetic. Moody Spurgeon says he feels it in his bones that he is going to fail in English history. Miss Stacy is going to give us examinations in June just as hard as we’ll have at the Entrance and mark us just as strictly, so we’ll have some idea. I wish it was all over, Marilla. It haunts me. Sometimes I wake up in the night and wonder what I’ll do if I don’t pass.’
'我不知道。有时我以为我会没事的——然后我就变得非常害怕。我们努力学习，史黛西小姐对我们进行了彻底的训练，但我们可能无法完成这一切。我们每个人都有一个绊脚石。我的当然是几何，简的是拉丁语，鲁比和查理的是代数，乔西的是算术。穆迪·司布真说，他从骨子里感觉到自己将在英国历史上失败。史黛西小姐将在六月为我们举办考试，就像我们在入学考试时一样严格，并对我们进行严格的评分，所以我们会有一些想法。我希望一切都结束了，玛丽拉。它困扰着我。有时我会在半夜醒来，想知道如果我没有通过考试该怎么办。”

‘Why, go to school next year and try again,’ said Marilla unconcernedly.
“哎呀，明年去学校再试试吧。”玛丽拉漫不经心地说。

‘Oh, I don’t believe I’d have the heart for it. It would be such a disgrace to fail, especially if Gil—if the others passed. And I get so nervous in an examination that I’m likely to make a mess of it. I wish I had nerves like Jane Andrews. Nothing rattles her.’
‘哦，我不相信我有这个心。失败真是太丢人了，尤其是如果吉尔——如果其他人都通过了的话。我在考试时非常紧张，很可能会搞砸。我希望我有像简·安德鲁斯那样的神经。没有什么能让她不安。

Anne sighed and, dragging her eyes from the witcheries of the spring world, the beckoning day of breeze and blue, and the green things upspringing in the garden, buried herself resolutely in her book. There would be other springs, but if she did not succeed in passing the Entrance, Anne felt convinced that she would never recover sufficiently to enjoy them.
安妮叹了口气，把目光从春天世界的魔幻、微风和蓝色的召唤日以及花园里的绿色植物上移开，毅然地埋头于书本中。还会有其他泉水，但如果她不能成功通过入口，安妮确信她将永远无法恢复到足以享受它们的程度。

Chapter XXXII
第三十二章


The Pass List Is Out
通行证清单已出

With the end of June came the close of the term and the close of Miss Stacy’s rule in Avonlea school. Anne and Diana walked home that evening feeling very sober indeed. Red eyes and damp handkerchiefs bore convincing testimony to the fact that Miss Stacy’s farewell words must have been quite as touching as Mr. Phillips’s had been under similar circumstances three years before. Diana looked back at the schoolhouse from the foot of the spruce hill and sighed deeply.
六月底，学期结束了，史黛西小姐在埃文利学校的统治也结束了。那天晚上，安妮和戴安娜走回家，感觉确实非常清醒。红红的眼睛和湿漉漉的手帕令人信服地证明，史黛西小姐的告别词一定和三年前菲利普斯先生在类似情况下的告别词一样感人。黛安娜在云杉山脚下回望校舍，深深地叹了口气。

‘It does seem as if it was the end of everything, doesn’t it?’ she said dismally.
“看来一切都结束了，不是吗？”她沮丧地说。

‘You oughtn’t to feel half as badly as I do,’ said Anne, hunting vainly for a dry spot on her handkerchief. ‘You’ll be back again next winter, but I suppose I’ve left the dear old school forever— if I have good luck, that is.’
“你的感觉不应该像我一样糟糕。”安妮徒劳地在手帕上寻找干燥的地方。 “明年冬天你会再次回来，但我想我已经永远离开了亲爱的老学校——如果我运气好的话。”

‘It won’t be a bit the same. Miss Stacy won’t be there, nor you nor Jane nor Ruby probably. I shall have to sit all alone, for I couldn’t bear to have another deskmate after you. Oh, we have had jolly times, haven’t we, Anne? It’s dreadful to think they’re all over.’
‘这不会有一点相同。史黛西小姐不会在那里，你、简和鲁比也可能不会在那里。我将不得不一个人坐着，因为我无法忍受在你之后还有另一个同桌。哦，我们度过了愉快的时光，不是吗，安妮？认为他们都结束了真是太可怕了。

Two big tears rolled down by Diana’s nose.
两颗大泪从戴安娜的鼻子旁滚落下来。

‘If you would stop crying I could,’ said Anne imploringly. ‘Just as soon as I put away my hanky I see you brimming up and that starts me off again. As Mrs. Lynde says, ‘If you can’t be cheerful, be as cheerful as you can.’ After all, I dare say I’ll be back next year. This is one of the times I KNOW I’m not going to pass. They’re getting alarmingly frequent.’
“如果你能停止哭泣，我就能做到。”安妮恳求地说。 “我一收起手帕，就看到你满身都是，这让我又开始了。正如林德夫人所说，“如果你不能快乐，那就尽可能快乐。”毕竟，我敢说我明年还会回来。这是我知道我不会通过的一次。它们变得越来越频繁。

‘Why, you came out splendidly in the exams Miss Stacy gave.’
“哎呀，你在史黛西小姐的考试中取得了优异的成绩。”

‘Yes, but those exams didn’t make me nervous. When I think of the real thing you can’t imagine what a horrid cold fluttery feeling comes round my heart. And then my number is thirteen and Josie Pye says it’s so unlucky. I am NOT superstitious and I know it can make no difference. But still I wish it wasn’t thirteen.’
“是的，但是那些考试并没有让我紧张。当我想到真实的事情时，你无法想象我的心有多么可怕的冰冷颤动的感觉。然后我的号码是十三，乔西·派伊说这太不吉利了。我不迷信，我知道这没有什么区别。但我仍然希望不是十三岁。

‘I do wish I was going in with you,’ said Diana. ‘Wouldn’t we have a perfectly elegant time? But I suppose you’ll have to cram in the evenings.’
“我真希望能和你一起去，”戴安娜说。 “我们难道不会度过一段完美优雅的时光吗？”但我想你晚上必须要补习。”

‘No; Miss Stacy has made us promise not to open a book at all. She says it would only tire and confuse us and we are to go out walking and not think about the exams at all and go to bed early. It’s good advice, but I expect it will be hard to follow; good advice is apt to be, I think. Prissy Andrews told me that she sat up half the night every night of her Entrance week and crammed for dear life; and I had determined to sit up AT LEAST as long as she did. It was so kind of your Aunt Josephine to ask me to stay at Beechwood while I’m in town.’
'不;史黛西小姐让我们保证根本不打开一本书。她说这只会让我们感到疲倦和困惑，我们要出去散步，根本不去想考试，早点睡觉。这是一个很好的建议，但我预计它会很难遵循；我认为，好的建议是可能的。普里西·安德鲁斯告诉我，她在入学周的每个晚上都要熬夜，为了美好的生活而拼命读书。我决定至少要和她一样久坐。你的约瑟芬姨妈真是太好了，邀请我在城里期间住在比奇伍德。

‘You’ll write to me while you’re in, won’t you?’
“你在里面的时候会写信给我，不是吗？”

‘I’ll write Tuesday night and tell you how the first day goes,’ promised Anne.
“我会在周二晚上写信告诉你第一天过得怎么样，”安妮答应道。

‘I’ll be haunting the post office Wednesday,’ vowed Diana.
“周三我会去邮局，”戴安娜发誓。

Anne went to town the following Monday and on Wednesday Diana haunted the post office, as agreed, and got her letter.
接下来的周一，安妮进城，周三，戴安娜按照约定去了邮局，收到了她的信。

‘Dearest Diana’ [wrote Anne],
“最亲爱的戴安娜”[安妮写道]，

‘Here it is Tuesday night and I’m writing this in the library at Beechwood. Last night I was horribly lonesome all alone in my room and wished so much you were with me. I couldn’t ‘cram’ because I’d promised Miss Stacy not to, but it was as hard to keep from opening my history as it used to be to keep from reading a story before my lessons were learned.
“现在是星期二晚上，我正在比奇伍德的图书馆里写这篇文章。昨晚我独自一人在房间里感到非常孤独，非常希望你能和我在一起。我不能“临时抱佛脚”，因为我向史黛西小姐保证过不要这样做，但我很难不去翻开我的历史，就像过去在吸取教训之前不去读故事一样。

‘This morning Miss Stacy came for me and we went to the Academy, calling for Jane and Ruby and Josie on our way. Ruby asked me to feel her hands and they were as cold as ice. Josie said I looked as if I hadn’t slept a wink and she didn’t believe I was strong enough to stand the grind of the teacher’s course even if I did get through. There are times and seasons even yet when I don’t feel that I’ve made any great headway in learning to like Josie Pye!
“今天早上史黛西小姐来找我，我们一起去了学院，路上还叫了简、鲁比和乔西。鲁比让我摸摸她的手，它们像冰一样冷。乔西说我看起来好像没有合眼，即使我真的通过了，她也不相信我有足够的力量经受住老师课程的考验。即使在某些时候和季节，我也不觉得自己在学习喜欢乔西·派伊方面取得了任何重大进展！

‘When we reached the Academy there were scores of students there from all over the Island. The first person we saw was Moody Spurgeon sitting on the steps and muttering away to himself. Jane asked him what on earth he was doing and he said he was repeating the multiplication table over and over to steady his nerves and for pity’s sake not to interrupt him, because if he stopped for a moment he got frightened and forgot everything he ever knew, but the multiplication table kept all his facts firmly in their proper place!
“当我们到达学院时，那里有来自全岛各地的数十名学生。我们看到的第一个人是穆迪·司布真（Moody Spurgeon）坐在台阶上自言自语。简问他到底在做什么，他说他一遍又一遍地背乘法表是为了稳定自己的神经，看在怜悯的份上不要打断他，因为如果他停下来一会儿，他就会害怕并忘记他所知道的一切。 ，但是乘法口诀表把他所有的事实牢牢地放在了正确的位置上！

‘When we were assigned to our rooms Miss Stacy had to leave us. Jane and I sat together and Jane was so composed that I envied her. No need of the multiplication table for good, steady, sensible Jane! I wondered if I looked as I felt and if they could hear my heart thumping clear across the room. Then a man came in and began distributing the English examination sheets. My hands grew cold then and my head fairly whirled around as I picked it up. Just one awful moment—Diana, I felt exactly as I did four years ago when I asked Marilla if I might stay at Green Gables—and then everything cleared up in my mind and my heart began beating again—I forgot to say that it had stopped altogether!—for I knew I could do something with THAT paper anyhow.
“当我们被分配到我们的房间时，史黛西小姐不得不离开我们。我和简坐在一起，简如此镇定，让我羡慕她。对于善良、稳定、明智的简来说，不需要乘法表！我想知道我的表情是否如我所感觉的那样，他们是否能听到我的心跳声穿过房间。然后一个男人进来并开始分发英语试卷。当我拿起它时，我的手变冷了，我的头开始旋转。只是一个可怕的时刻——戴安娜，我的感觉和四年前我问玛丽拉是否可以留在绿山墙时的感觉一模一样——然后我脑子里的一切都清晰了，我的心又开始跳动——我忘了​​说它已经发生了。完全停止了！——因为我知道无论如何我都可以用那张纸做点什么。

‘At noon we went home for dinner and then back again for history in the afternoon. The history was a pretty hard paper and I got dreadfully mixed up in the dates. Still, I think I did fairly well today. But oh, Diana, tomorrow the geometry exam comes off and when I think of it it takes every bit of determination I possess to keep from opening my Euclid. If I thought the multiplication table would help me any I would recite it from now till tomorrow morning.
“中午我们回家吃晚饭，下午又回来学习历史。历史是一篇相当难的论文，而且我把日期搞混了。尽管如此，我认为我今天做得还不错。但是哦，戴安娜，明天几何考试就要开始了，当我想到这一点时，我需要尽全力才能不打开我的欧几里得。如果我认为乘法表对我有帮助，我会从现在到明天早上背诵它。

‘I went down to see the other girls this evening. On my way I met Moody Spurgeon wandering distractedly around. He said he knew he had failed in history and he was born to be a disappointment to his parents and he was going home on the morning train; and it would be easier to be a carpenter than a minister, anyhow. I cheered him up and persuaded him to stay to the end because it would be unfair to Miss Stacy if he didn’t. Sometimes I have wished I was born a boy, but when I see Moody Spurgeon I’m always glad I’m a girl and not his sister.
“今晚我去看其他女孩了。在路上，我遇到了心烦意乱地四处闲逛的穆迪·司布真。他说他知道自己在历史上失败了，他生来就是让父母失望的，他要乘早班火车回家；无论如何，当木匠比当牧师更容易。我鼓励他坚持到最后，因为如果他不这样做，对史黛西小姐就不公平。有时我希望自己生来是个男孩，但当我看到穆迪·司布真时，我总是很高兴我是个女孩，而不是他的妹妹。

‘Ruby was in hysterics when I reached their boardinghouse; she had just discovered a fearful mistake she had made in her English paper. When she recovered we went uptown and had an ice cream. How we wished you had been with us.
“当我到达他们的寄宿处时，鲁比已经歇斯底里了。她刚刚发现自己在英文论文中犯了一个可怕的错误。当她康复后，我们去住宅区吃了冰淇淋。我们多么希望你能和我们在一起。

‘Oh, Diana, if only the geometry examination were over! But there, as Mrs. Lynde would say, the sun will go on rising and setting whether I fail in geometry or not. That is true but not especially comforting. I think I’d rather it didn’t go on if I failed!
“噢，戴安娜，如果几何考试结束就好了！”但正如林德夫人所说，无论我几何学失败与否，太阳都会继续升起和落下。这是事实，但并不特别令人安慰。我想，如果我失败了，我宁愿不要继续下去！

Yours devotedly,
您的虔诚，

Anne”
安妮”

The geometry examination and all the others were over in due time and Anne arrived home on Friday evening, rather tired but with an air of chastened triumph about her. Diana was over at Green Gables when she arrived and they met as if they had been parted for years.
几何考试和所有其他考试都按时结束了，安妮于周五晚上回到家，她相当疲倦，但浑身带着一种受挫的胜利气息。戴安娜到达时已经在绿山墙了，他们见面时就像分开多年一样。

‘You old darling, it’s perfectly splendid to see you back again. It seems like an age since you went to town and oh, Anne, how did you get along?’
‘你老亲爱的，很高兴再次见到你。你好像已经很久没进城了，哦，安妮，你过得怎么样？

‘Pretty well, I think, in everything but the geometry. I don’t know whether I passed in it or not and I have a creepy, crawly presentiment that I didn’t. Oh, how good it is to be back! Green Gables is the dearest, loveliest spot in the world.’
“我认为，除了几何学之外，其他方面都很好。我不知道我是否通过了，但我有一种令人毛骨悚然的预感，我没有通过。噢，回来真是太好了！绿山墙是世界上最可爱、最可爱的地方。”

‘How did the others do?’
“其他人怎么样？”

‘The girls say they know they didn’t pass, but I think they did pretty well. Josie says the geometry was so easy a child of ten could do it! Moody Spurgeon still thinks he failed in history and Charlie says he failed in algebra. But we don’t really know anything about it and won’t until the pass list is out. That won’t be for a fortnight. Fancy living a fortnight in such suspense! I wish I could go to sleep and never wake up until it is over.’
“女孩们说她们知道自己没有通过，但我认为她们做得很好。乔西说几何学很简单，十岁的孩子都能做！穆迪·司布真仍然认为他在历史方面失败了，查理说他在代数方面失败了。但我们对此一无所知，直到通过名单出来后我们才会知道。这不会持续两周。想象一下在这样的悬念中生活两周！我希望我能去睡觉，直到结束才醒来。”

Diana knew it would be useless to ask how Gilbert Blythe had fared, so she merely said:
戴安娜知道询问吉尔伯特·布莱斯的表现是没有用的，所以她只是说道：

‘Oh, you’ll pass all right. Don’t worry.’
‘噢，你会通过的。不用担心。'

‘I’d rather not pass at all than not come out pretty well up on the list,’ flashed Anne, by which she meant—and Diana knew she meant—that success would be incomplete and bitter if she did not come out ahead of Gilbert Blythe.
“我宁愿根本不及格，也不愿在名单上名列前茅。”安妮闪现，她的意思是——戴安娜知道她的意思是——如果她不领先于其他人，成功将是不完整和痛苦的。吉尔伯特·布莱斯。

With this end in view Anne had strained every nerve during the examinations. So had Gilbert. They had met and passed each other on the street a dozen times without any sign of recognition and every time Anne had held her head a little higher and wished a little more earnestly that she had made friends with Gilbert when he asked her, and vowed a little more determinedly to surpass him in the examination. She knew that all Avonlea junior was wondering which would come out first; she even knew that Jimmy Glover and Ned Wright had a bet on the question and that Josie Pye had said there was no doubt in the world that Gilbert would be first; and she felt that her humiliation would be unbearable if she failed.
为了达到这个目的，安妮在考试期间竭尽全力。吉尔伯特也是如此。他们在街上相遇并擦肩而过十几次，但没有任何认出的迹象，每次安妮都把头举得更高一点，更真诚地希望当吉尔伯特问她时，她已经和吉尔伯特交上了朋友，并发誓要和吉尔伯特成为朋友。更加坚定了要在考试中超过他的决心。她知道埃文利的所有小学生都在想谁会先出来；她甚至知道吉米·格洛弗和内德·赖特在这个问题上打了赌，而且乔西·派伊说过吉尔伯特毫无疑问会是第一；她甚至知道吉米·格洛弗和内德·赖特在这个问题上打了赌。她觉得如果失败了，她的屈辱将难以忍受。

But she had another and nobler motive for wishing to do well. She wanted to ‘pass high’ for the sake of Matthew and Marilla— especially Matthew. Matthew had declared to her his conviction that she ‘would beat the whole Island.’ That, Anne felt, was something it would be foolish to hope for even in the wildest dreams. But she did hope fervently that she would be among the first ten at least, so that she might see Matthew’s kindly brown eyes gleam with pride in her achievement. That, she felt, would be a sweet reward indeed for all her hard work and patient grubbing among unimaginative equations and conjugations.
但她还有另一个更高尚的动机，希望做得更好。为了马修和玛丽拉——尤其是马修，她想“高考”。马修向她宣称，他坚信她“会击败整个岛屿”。安妮觉得，即使在最疯狂的梦想中，这种希望也是愚蠢的。但她确实热切地希望自己至少能跻身前十名，这样她就可以看到马修慈祥的棕色眼睛因自己的成就而闪烁着自豪的光芒。她觉得，这确实是对她所有辛勤工作和耐心钻研缺乏想象力的方程式和共轭变化的甜蜜奖励。

At the end of the fortnight Anne took to ‘haunting’ the post office also, in the distracted company of Jane, Ruby, and Josie, opening the Charlottetown dailies with shaking hands and cold, sinkaway feelings as bad as any experienced during the Entrance week. Charlie and Gilbert were not above doing this too, but Moody Spurgeon stayed resolutely away.
两周结束时，安妮也在简、鲁比和乔西心烦意乱的陪伴下，在邮局“出没”，用颤抖的双手打开夏洛特敦的日报，心情冰冷、沉沦，就像入学周期间经历过的那样糟糕。 。查理和吉尔伯特也不甘示弱，但穆迪·司布真坚决不这么做。

‘I haven’t got the grit to go there and look at a paper in cold blood,’ he told Anne. ‘I’m just going to wait until somebody comes and tells me suddenly whether I’ve passed or not.’
“我没有勇气去那里冷酷地看一篇论文，”他告诉安妮。 “我只想等到有人突然告诉我我是否通过了。”

When three weeks had gone by without the pass list appearing Anne began to feel that she really couldn’t stand the strain much longer. Her appetite failed and her interest in Avonlea doings languished. Mrs. Lynde wanted to know what else you could expect with a Tory superintendent of education at the head of affairs, and Matthew, noting Anne’s paleness and indifference and the lagging steps that bore her home from the post office every afternoon, began seriously to wonder if he hadn’t better vote Grit at the next election.
三个星期过去了，合格名单还没有出现，安妮开始觉得她真的无法再忍受这种压力了。她食欲不振，对埃文利活动的兴趣也减退了。林德夫人想知道，如果由一位保守党教育总监来领导事务，马修还可以期待什么，而马修注意到安妮的脸色苍白、冷漠，以及每天下午从邮局回家时拖着沉重的脚步，开始认真地思考如果他没有在下次选举中更好地投票给坚毅的话。

But one evening the news came. Anne was sitting at her open window, for the time forgetful of the woes of examinations and the cares of the world, as she drank in the beauty of the summer dusk, sweet-scented with flower breaths from the garden below and sibilant and rustling from the stir of poplars. The eastern sky above the firs was flushed faintly pink from the reflection of the west, and Anne was wondering dreamily if the spirit of color looked like that, when she saw Diana come flying down through the firs, over the log bridge, and up the slope, with a fluttering newspaper in her hand.
但一天晚上，消息传来。安妮坐在敞开的窗前，暂时忘记了考试的烦恼和尘世的烦恼，沉浸在夏日黄昏的美丽之中，楼下花园里飘来鲜花的芳香，花园里的花香四溢，沙沙作响。白杨树的骚动冷杉上方的东方天空在西方的反射下泛出淡淡的粉红色，安妮在梦幻般地想知道色彩之灵是否也是如此，这时她看到戴安娜从冷杉中飞下来，越过独木桥，飞上高空。她手里拿着一张飘扬的报纸。

Anne sprang to her feet, knowing at once what that paper contained. The pass list was out! Her head whirled and her heart beat until it hurt her. She could not move a step. It seemed an hour to her before Diana came rushing along the hall and burst into the room without even knocking, so great was her excitement.
安妮跳了起来，立刻就知道那张纸上写的是什么。通行证名单出炉了！她的头在旋转，她的心跳得让她感到疼痛。她一步也动不了。对她来说，戴安娜似乎过了一个小时才沿着大厅冲进来，连门都没敲就冲进了房间，她兴奋极了。

‘Anne, you’ve passed,’ she cried, ‘passed the VERY FIRST—you and Gilbert both—you’re ties—but your name is first. Oh, I’m so proud!’
“安妮，你已经通过了，”她喊道，“通过了第一个——你和吉尔伯特——你们是平手——但你的名字是第一个。”哦，我很自豪！

Diana flung the paper on the table and herself on Anne’s bed, utterly breathless and incapable of further speech. Anne lighted the lamp, oversetting the match safe and using up half a dozen matches before her shaking hands could accomplish the task. Then she snatched up the paper. Yes, she had passed—there was her name at the very top of a list of two hundred! That moment was worth living for.
戴安娜把报纸扔在桌子上，把自己扔到安妮的床上，气喘吁吁，无法再说话。安妮点燃了灯，打翻了火柴保险柜，在她颤抖的双手完成任务之前，她已经用完了六根火柴。然后她一把抓起那张纸。是的，她已经通过了——她的名字排在两百个名单的最前面！那一刻值得为之而活。

‘You did just splendidly, Anne,’ puffed Diana, recovering sufficiently to sit up and speak, for Anne, starry eyed and rapt, had not uttered a word. ‘Father brought the paper home from Bright River not ten minutes ago—it came out on the afternoon train, you know, and won’t be here till tomorrow by mail—and when I saw the pass list I just rushed over like a wild thing. You’ve all passed, every one of you, Moody Spurgeon and all, although he’s conditioned in history. Jane and Ruby did pretty well—they’re halfway up—and so did Charlie. Josie just scraped through with three marks to spare, but you’ll see she’ll put on as many airs as if she’d led. Won’t Miss Stacy be delighted? Oh, Anne, what does it feel like to see your name at the head of a pass list like that? If it were me I know I’d go crazy with joy. I am pretty near crazy as it is, but you’re as calm and cool as a spring evening.’
“你做得太棒了，安妮，”戴安娜气喘吁吁地说，她恢复了足够的能力坐起来说话，因为安妮满眼星星，全神贯注，没有说一句话。 “父亲不到十分钟前从布赖特河把报纸带回家——它是在下午的火车上发出的，你知道，要到明天才会通过邮件寄到这里——当我看到通行证清单时，我就像一个野人一样冲了过去。”事物。你们所有人都已经过去了，包括穆迪·司布真和所有人，尽管他受到了历史的制约。简和鲁比做得很好——他们已经完成了一半——查理也是如此。乔西刚刚以三分的成绩勉强晋级，但你会发现她会摆出一副架子，就好像她是领先者一样。史黛西小姐会不高兴吗？哦，安妮，看到你的名字出现在这样的通行证列表的开头是什么感觉？如果是我，我知道我会高兴得发疯。我几乎快要疯了，但你却像春天的夜晚一样平静和凉爽。”

‘I’m just dazzled inside,’ said Anne. ‘I want to say a hundred things, and I can’t find words to say them in. I never dreamed of this—yes, I did too, just once! I let myself think ONCE, ‘What if I should come out first?’ quakingly, you know, for it seemed so vain and presumptuous to think I could lead the Island. Excuse me a minute, Diana. I must run right out to the field to tell Matthew. Then we’ll go up the road and tell the good news to the others.’
“我内心感到眼花缭乱，”安妮说。 “我想说一百件事，但我找不到语言来表达它们。我从来没有梦想过这一点——是的，我也做到了，就一次！”有一次，我让自己思考，“如果我先出来怎么办？”你知道，我颤抖着，因为认为我可以领导这个岛似乎是那么虚荣和自以为是。对不起，戴安娜。我必须马上跑到田野去告诉马修。然后我们就沿着路走，把这个好消息告诉其他人。”

They hurried to the hayfield below the barn where Matthew was coiling hay, and, as luck would have it, Mrs. Lynde was talking to Marilla at the lane fence.
他们匆匆赶到谷仓下面的干草场，马修正在那里卷干草，幸运的是，林德太太正在车道栅栏旁和玛丽拉说话。

‘Oh, Matthew,’ exclaimed Anne, ‘I’ve passed and I’m first—or one of the first! I’m not vain, but I’m thankful.’
“哦，马修，”安妮惊呼道，“我已经通过了，而且我是第一名——或者说是第一名之一！”我并不虚荣，但我很感激。

‘Well now, I always said it,’ said Matthew, gazing at the pass list delightedly. ‘I knew you could beat them all easy.’
“好吧，我总是这么说，”马修说道，高兴地看着通行证清单。 “我知道你可以轻松击败他们。”

‘You’ve done pretty well, I must say, Anne,’ said Marilla, trying to hide her extreme pride in Anne from Mrs. Rachel’s critical eye. But that good soul said heartily:
“我必须说，你做得很好，安妮，”玛丽拉说，试图在雷切尔夫人挑剔的目光中掩饰她对安妮的极度自豪。但那位善良的灵魂却由衷地说：

‘I just guess she has done well, and far be it from me to be backward in saying it. You’re a credit to your friends, Anne, that’s what, and we’re all proud of you.’
“我只是猜想她做得很好，我绝不会落后说出来。安妮，你是你朋友的功劳，就是这样，我们都为你感到骄傲。

That night Anne, who had wound up the delightful evening with a serious little talk with Mrs. Allan at the manse, knelt sweetly by her open window in a great sheen of moonshine and murmured a prayer of gratitude and aspiration that came straight from her heart. There was in it thankfulness for the past and reverent petition for the future; and when she slept on her white pillow her dreams were as fair and bright and beautiful as maidenhood might desire.
那天晚上，安妮在宅邸里与艾伦太太进行了一次严肃的闲聊，结束了这个愉快的夜晚。她在月光的照耀下甜蜜地跪在开着的窗户旁，低声念出一句发自内心的感激和渴望的祈祷。 。其中有对过去的感谢和对未来的虔诚祈求。当她睡在白色的枕头上时，她的梦就像少女期盼的那样公平、明亮、美丽。

Chapter XXXIII
第三十三章


The Hotel Concert
酒店音乐会

Put on your white organdy, by all means, Anne,’ advised Diana decidedly.
一定要穿上你的白色透明纱，安妮，”戴安娜坚决地建议道。

They were together in the east gable chamber; outside it was only twilight—a lovely yellowish-green twilight with a clear-blue cloudless sky. A big round moon, slowly deepening from her pallid luster into burnished silver, hung over the Haunted Wood; the air was full of sweet summer sounds—sleepy birds twittering, freakish breezes, faraway voices and laughter. But in Anne’s room the blind was drawn and the lamp lighted, for an important toilet was being made.
他们一起在东山墙的房间里。外面只是暮色——可爱的黄绿色暮光，天空碧蓝无云。一轮又大又圆的月亮挂在闹鬼森林的上空，慢慢地从苍白的光泽变成闪亮的银色。空气中充满了夏日甜美的声音——困倦的鸟儿叽叽喳喳，奇异的微风，遥远的声音和笑声。但安妮的房间拉着百叶窗，灯亮着，因为正在建造一个重要的厕所。

The east gable was a very different place from what it had been on that night four years before, when Anne had felt its bareness penetrate to the marrow of her spirit with its inhospitable chill. Changes had crept in, Marilla conniving at them resignedly, until it was as sweet and dainty a nest as a young girl could desire.
东山墙与四年前的那个夜晚截然不同，当时安妮感到这里的空旷和荒凉的寒冷刺入了她的精神骨髓。变化悄然而至，玛丽拉无奈地纵容着它们，直到它成为一个年轻女孩所渴望的甜蜜而精致的巢。

The velvet carpet with the pink roses and the pink silk curtains of Anne’s early visions had certainly never materialized; but her dreams had kept pace with her growth, and it is not probable she lamented them. The floor was covered with a pretty matting, and the curtains that softened the high window and fluttered in the vagrant breezes were of pale-green art muslin. The walls, hung not with gold and silver brocade tapestry, but with a dainty apple-blossom paper, were adorned with a few good pictures given Anne by Mrs. Allan. Miss Stacy’s photograph occupied the place of honor, and Anne made a sentimental point of keeping fresh flowers on the bracket under it. Tonight a spike of white lilies faintly perfumed the room like the dream of a fragrance. There was no ‘mahogany furniture,’ but there was a white-painted bookcase filled with books, a cushioned wicker rocker, a toilet table befrilled with white muslin, a quaint, gilt-framed mirror with chubby pink Cupids and purple grapes painted over its arched top, that used to hang in the spare room, and a low white bed.
安妮早期设想的镶有粉红玫瑰的天鹅绒地毯和粉红色丝绸窗帘当然从未实现过；但她的梦想与她的成长同步，她不可能为此感到悲叹。地板上铺着漂亮的席子，淡绿色的艺术细布窗帘使高高的窗户变得柔和，在微风中飘扬。墙壁上挂的不是金银织锦挂毯，而是一张精美的苹果花纸，上面装饰着艾伦夫人送给安妮的几幅精美画作。史黛西小姐的照片占据了最重要的位置，安妮出于感伤的考虑，在照片下面的支架上放了鲜花。今晚，一穗白色的百合花在房间里散发着淡淡的香味，就像梦中的芬芳一样。没有“红木家具”，但有一个装满书籍的白色书柜、一个带软垫的柳条摇椅、一张饰有白色细布的梳妆台、一面古色古香的镀金镜框，镜子上画着胖乎乎的粉红色丘比特和紫色葡萄。以前挂在空房间里的拱形顶部，还有一张低矮的白色床。

Anne was dressing for a concert at the White Sands Hotel. The guests had got it up in aid of the Charlottetown hospital, and had hunted out all the available amateur talent in the surrounding districts to help it along. Bertha Sampson and Pearl Clay of the White Sands Baptist choir had been asked to sing a duet; Milton Clark of Newbridge was to give a violin solo; Winnie Adella Blair of Carmody was to sing a Scotch ballad; and Laura Spencer of Spencervale and Anne Shirley of Avonlea were to recite.
安妮正在为白沙酒店的一场音乐会盛装打扮。客人们为夏洛特敦医院提供了帮助，并在周边地区寻找了所有可用的业余人才来帮助它前进。白沙浸信会合唱团的伯莎·桑普森和珀尔·克莱受邀演唱二重唱；纽布里奇的米尔顿·克拉克将演奏小提琴独奏；卡莫迪的温妮·阿黛拉·布莱尔将演唱一首苏格兰民谣；斯宾塞维尔的劳拉·斯宾塞和埃文利的安妮·雪莉将朗诵。

As Anne would have said at one time, it was ‘an epoch in her life,’ and she was deliciously athrill with the excitement of it. Matthew was in the seventh heaven of gratified pride over the honor conferred on his Anne and Marilla was not far behind, although she would have died rather than admit it, and said she didn’t think it was very proper for a lot of young folks to be gadding over to the hotel without any responsible person with them.
正如安妮曾经说过的那样，这是“她生命中的一个新纪元”，她对其中的兴奋感到无比兴奋。马修对他的安妮所获得的荣誉感到无比自豪，玛丽拉也紧随其后，尽管她宁愿死也不愿承认这一点，并说她认为这对很多年轻人来说不太合适在没有任何负责人陪同的情况下轻快地前往酒店。

Anne and Diana were to drive over with Jane Andrews and her brother Billy in their double-seated buggy; and several other Avonlea girls and boys were going too. There was a party of visitors expected out from town, and after the concert a supper was to be given to the performers.
安妮和戴安娜将与简·安德鲁斯和她的兄弟比利一起开着双人座越野车过来。其他几个埃文利女孩和男孩也要去。预计会有一群游客从城里出来，音乐会结束后将为表演者提供晚餐。

‘Do you really think the organdy will be best?’ queried Anne anxiously. ‘I don’t think it’s as pretty as my blue-flowered muslin—and it certainly isn’t so fashionable.’
“你真的认为透明纱最好吗？”安妮焦急地问道。 “我认为它不如我的蓝花平纹细布漂亮，而且当然也不那么时尚。”

‘But it suits you ever so much better,’ said Diana. ‘It’s so soft and frilly and clinging. The muslin is stiff, and makes you look too dressed up. But the organdy seems as if it grew on you.’
“但它更适合你，”戴安娜说。 “它是如此柔软，有褶边，而且很粘人。”平纹细布很硬，让你看起来过于盛装。但透明纱似乎很适合你。”

Anne sighed and yielded. Diana was beginning to have a reputation for notable taste in dressing, and her advice on such subjects was much sought after. She was looking very pretty herself on this particular night in a dress of the lovely wild-rose pink, from which Anne was forever debarred; but she was not to take any part in the concert, so her appearance was of minor importance. All her pains were bestowed upon Anne, who, she vowed, must, for the credit of Avonlea, be dressed and combed and adorned to the Queen’s taste.
安妮叹了口气，屈服了。戴安娜开始因着装品味出众而闻名，她在这些方面的建议也广受追捧。在这个特别的夜晚，她穿着可爱的野玫瑰粉色连衣裙，看起来非常漂亮，而安妮永远被禁止穿这种裙子；但她不会参加任何音乐会，所以她的外表并不重要。她所有的心血都倾注在安妮身上，她发誓，为了埃文利的名誉，她必须按照女王的品味着装、梳理和装饰。

‘Pull out that frill a little more—so; here, let me tie your sash; now for your slippers. I’m going to braid your hair in two thick braids, and tie them halfway up with big white bows—no, don’t pull out a single curl over your forehead—just have the soft part. There is no way you do your hair suits you so well, Anne, and Mrs. Allan says you look like a Madonna when you part it so. I shall fasten this little white house rose just behind your ear. There was just one on my bush, and I saved it for you.’
“把褶边再拉一点——这样；来，让我系一下你的腰带；现在给你的拖鞋。我要把你的头发编成两条粗辫子，然后用白色的大蝴蝶结将它们半扎起来——不，不要在你的额头上拉出一缕卷发——只留柔软的部分。安妮，你的头发不可能这么适合你，艾伦夫人说，当你把头发分开时，你看起来就像圣母玛利亚。我会把这朵白色的小玫瑰固定在你的耳后。我的灌木丛上只有一棵，我为你保留了它。

‘Shall I put my pearl beads on?’ asked Anne. ‘Matthew brought me a string from town last week, and I know he’d like to see them on me.’
“我可以戴上珍珠珠吗？”安妮问。 “马修上周从城里给我带来了一根绳子，我知道他希望在我身上看到它们。”

Diana pursed up her lips, put her black head on one side critically, and finally pronounced in favor of the beads, which were thereupon tied around Anne’s slim milk-white throat.
戴安娜抿起嘴唇，挑剔地将黑头偏向一侧，最后宣布赞成珠子，珠子随即系在安妮纤细的乳白色喉咙上。

‘There’s something so stylish about you, Anne,’ said Diana, with unenvious admiration. ‘You hold your head with such an air. I suppose it’s your figure. I am just a dumpling. I’ve always been afraid of it, and now I know it is so. Well, I suppose I shall just have to resign myself to it.’
“安妮，你身上有一种很时尚的感觉。”戴安娜带着不嫉妒的钦佩说道。 ‘你昂着头，一副神情。我想这就是你的身影。我只是一个饺子。我一直很害怕，现在我知道确实如此。好吧，我想我只能听天由命了。

‘But you have such dimples,’ said Anne, smiling affectionately into the pretty, vivacious face so near her own. ‘Lovely dimples, like little dents in cream. I have given up all hope of dimples. My dimple-dream will never come true; but so many of my dreams have that I mustn’t complain. Am I all ready now?’
“但是你有这样的酒窝，”安妮说道，对着那张离她自己那么近的漂亮、活泼的脸深情地微笑着。 “可爱的酒窝，就像奶油上的小凹痕。我已经放弃了酒窝的所有希望。我的酒窝梦永远不会实现；但我的梦想如此之多，我不能抱怨。我现在准备好了吗？

‘All ready,’ assured Diana, as Marilla appeared in the doorway, a gaunt figure with grayer hair than of yore and no fewer angles, but with a much softer face. ‘Come right in and look at our elocutionist, Marilla. Doesn’t she look lovely?’
“一切准备就绪。”当玛丽拉出现在门口时，戴安娜保证道，她身材瘦削，头发比以前更加灰白，角度也不少，但脸庞却柔和得多。 “进来看看我们的雄辩家，玛丽拉。她看起来不漂亮吗？

Marilla emitted a sound between a sniff and a grunt.
玛丽拉发出一阵抽鼻子和咕哝之间的声音。

‘She looks neat and proper. I like that way of fixing her hair. But I expect she’ll ruin that dress driving over there in the dust and dew with it, and it looks most too thin for these damp nights. Organdy’s the most unserviceable stuff in the world anyhow, and I told Matthew so when he got it. But there is no use in saying anything to Matthew nowadays. Time was when he would take my advice, but now he just buys things for Anne regardless, and the clerks at Carmody know they can palm anything off on him. Just let them tell him a thing is pretty and fashionable, and Matthew plunks his money down for it. Mind you keep your skirt clear of the wheel, Anne, and put your warm jacket on.’
‘她看起来整洁得体。我喜欢她固定头发的方式。但我预计她会在尘土和露水中开车时毁掉那件衣服，而且对于这些潮湿的夜晚来说，它看起来太薄了。无论如何，硬纱是世界上最不能用的东西，当马修拿到它时我就这样告诉了他。但现在对马修说什么都没用了。以前他会听从我的建议，但现在他不顾一切地为安妮买东西，而卡莫迪的店员知道他们可以向他兜售任何东西。只要让他们告诉他一件东西既漂亮又时尚，马修就会为之投入大量金钱。安妮，请注意让裙子远离方向盘，并穿上保暖夹克。

Then Marilla stalked downstairs, thinking proudly how sweet Anne looked, with that
然后玛丽拉大步下楼，自豪地想着安妮看起来多么可爱，

‘One moonbeam from the forehead to the crown”
“一束月光从额头到头顶”

and regretting that she could not go to the concert herself to hear her girl recite.
遗憾的是她不能亲自去音乐会听女儿朗诵。

‘I wonder if it IS too damp for my dress,’ said Anne anxiously.
“我想知道我的衣服是不是太湿了。”安妮焦急地说。

‘Not a bit of it,’ said Diana, pulling up the window blind. ‘It’s a perfect night, and there won’t be any dew. Look at the moonlight.’
“一点也不，”戴安娜拉起百叶窗说道。 “这是一个完美的夜晚，不会有露水。看看月光。”

‘I’m so glad my window looks east into the sunrising,’ said Anne, going over to Diana. ‘It’s so splendid to see the morning coming up over those long hills and glowing through those sharp fir tops. It’s new every morning, and I feel as if I washed my very soul in that bath of earliest sunshine. Oh, Diana, I love this little room so dearly. I don’t know how I’ll get along without it when I go to town next month.’
“我很高兴我的窗户向东看日出，”安妮走到戴安娜身边说道。 “看到早晨从那些长长的山丘上升起，透过那些尖尖的冷杉树顶发光，真是太棒了。每天早晨都是新的，我感觉自己的灵魂仿佛在最早的阳光沐浴中得到了洗涤。哦，戴安娜，我非常喜欢这个小房间。我不知道下个月进城时如果没有它我将如何相处。

‘Don’t speak of your going away tonight,’ begged Diana. ‘I don’t want to think of it, it makes me so miserable, and I do want to have a good time this evening. What are you going to recite, Anne? And are you nervous?’
“不要谈论你今晚要离开的事，”戴安娜恳求道。 “我不想去想它，这让我很痛苦，今晚我确实想玩得开心。”安妮，你要念什么？你紧张吗？

‘Not a bit. I’ve recited so often in public I don’t mind at all now. I’ve decided to give ‘The Maiden’s Vow.’ It’s so pathetic. Laura Spencer is going to give a comic recitation, but I’d rather make people cry than laugh.’
” “一点也没有。我经常在公共场合念诵，所以现在一点也不介意了。我决定宣读‘少女的誓言’。这太可悲了。劳拉·斯宾塞要进行喜剧朗诵，但我宁愿让人哭也不愿让人笑。

‘What will you recite if they encore you?’
“如果他们给你加演，你会背诵什么？”

‘They won’t dream of encoring me,’ scoffed Anne, who was not without her own secret hopes that they would, and already visioned herself telling Matthew all about it at the next morning’s breakfast table. ‘There are Billy and Jane now— I hear the wheels. Come on.’
“他们不会梦想让我加演的。”安妮嘲笑道，她自己也暗暗希望他们会加演，她已经想象自己会在第二天早上的早餐桌上把这一切告诉马修。 “现在有比利和简了——我听到了轮子的声音。快点。'

Billy Andrews insisted that Anne should ride on the front seat with him, so she unwillingly climbed up. She would have much preferred to sit back with the girls, where she could have laughed and chattered to her heart’s content. There was not much of either laughter or chatter in Billy. He was a big, fat, stolid youth of twenty, with a round, expressionless face, and a painful lack of conversational gifts. But he admired Anne immensely, and was puffed up with pride over the prospect of driving to White Sands with that slim, upright figure beside him.
比利·安德鲁斯坚持让安妮和他一起坐在前排座位上，所以她不情愿地爬了上去。她更愿意和女孩们坐在一起，在那里她可以尽情地欢笑、聊天。比利没有太多笑声或闲聊声。他是个二十岁的高大、肥胖、冷漠的年轻人，一张圆圆的、毫无表情的脸，缺乏健谈的天赋，令人痛苦。但他非常钦佩安妮，一想到自己能和那个苗条挺拔的身影一起开车去白沙，他就感到自豪。

Anne, by dint of talking over her shoulder to the girls and occasionally passing a sop of civility to Billy—who grinned and chuckled and never could think of any reply until it was too late—contrived to enjoy the drive in spite of all. It was a night for enjoyment. The road was full of buggies, all bound for the hotel, and laughter, silver clear, echoed and reechoed along it. When they reached the hotel it was a blaze of light from top to bottom. They were met by the ladies of the concert committee, one of whom took Anne off to the performers’ dressing room which was filled with the members of a Charlottetown Symphony Club, among whom Anne felt suddenly shy and frightened and countrified. Her dress, which, in the east gable, had seemed so dainty and pretty, now seemed simple and plain—too simple and plain, she thought, among all the silks and laces that glistened and rustled around her. What were her pearl beads compared to the diamonds of the big, handsome lady near her? And how poor her one wee white rose must look beside all the hothouse flowers the others wore! Anne laid her hat and jacket away, and shrank miserably into a corner. She wished herself back in the white room at Green Gables.
安妮在身后与女孩们交谈，偶尔向比利表示礼貌——比利咧着嘴笑，直到为时已晚才想出任何答复——尽管如此，安妮还是设法享受了开车的乐趣。这是一个享受的夜晚。路上满是马车，全都是开往旅馆的，清脆的笑声在路上回荡。当他们到达酒店时，从上到下都是一片灯光。他们遇到了音乐会委员会的女士们，其中一位带安妮去了表演者更衣室，里面挤满了夏洛特敦交响乐俱乐部的成员，安妮突然感到害羞、害怕和乡村感。她的衣服，在东山墙，看起来是那么精致和漂亮，现在显得简单和朴素——她想，在她周围闪闪发光、沙沙作响的丝绸和花边中，太简单和朴素了。与她身边那个大而英俊的​​女士的钻石相比，她的珍珠珠算什么？与其他人所戴的所有温室花朵相比，她那一朵小小的白玫瑰显得多么可怜啊！安妮把帽子和夹克收起来，痛苦地缩到了角落里。她希望自己能回到绿山墙的白色房间里。

It was still worse on the platform of the big concert hall of the hotel, where she presently found herself. The electric lights dazzled her eyes, the perfume and hum bewildered her. She wished she were sitting down in the audience with Diana and Jane, who seemed to be having a splendid time away at the back. She was wedged in between a stout lady in pink silk and a tall, scornful-looking girl in a white-lace dress. The stout lady occasionally turned her head squarely around and surveyed Anne through her eyeglasses until Anne, acutely sensitive of being so scrutinized, felt that she must scream aloud; and the white-lace girl kept talking audibly to her next neighbor about the ‘country bumpkins’ and ‘rustic belles’ in the audience, languidly anticipating ‘such fun’ from the displays of local talent on the program. Anne believed that she would hate that white-lace girl to the end of life.
在酒店大音乐厅的平台上，情况更糟，她现在就在那里。电灯使她眼花缭乱，香水味和嗡嗡声让她困惑。她希望自己能和戴安娜和简一起坐在观众席上，他们似乎在后面度过了一段美好的时光。她夹在一位穿着粉红色丝绸的胖女人和一位穿着白色蕾丝连衣裙、身材高大、神情轻蔑的女孩之间。这位身材魁梧的女士偶尔会转过头来，透过眼镜打量安妮，直到安妮对被如此审视的目光极为敏感，觉得自己必须大声尖叫；身穿白蕾丝的女孩不停地向旁边的邻居大声谈论着观众席上的“土包子”和“土气美女”，慵懒地期待着节目中本地才艺的展示“真有趣”。安妮相信，她会对那个白蕾丝女孩恨之入骨。

Unfortunately for Anne, a professional elocutionist was staying at the hotel and had consented to recite. She was a lithe, dark-eyed woman in a wonderful gown of shimmering gray stuff like woven moonbeams, with gems on her neck and in her dark hair. She had a marvelously flexible voice and wonderful power of expression; the audience went wild over her selection. Anne, forgetting all about herself and her troubles for the time, listened with rapt and shining eyes; but when the recitation ended she suddenly put her hands over her face. She could never get up and recite after that—never. Had she ever thought she could recite? Oh, if she were only back at Green Gables!
对安妮来说不幸的是，一位专业的演讲家住在酒店并同意朗诵。她是一位身体轻盈、黑眼睛的女人，穿着一件精美的长袍，长袍是用闪闪发光的灰色材料制成的，就像编织的月光一样，脖子上和黑发上都戴着宝石。她有着极其灵活的声音和出色的表达能力。观众对她的选择感到疯狂。安妮暂时忘记了自己和烦恼，全神贯注地听着，眼睛闪闪发亮。但当朗诵结束时，她突然用手捂住了脸。从那以后，她再也不能站起来背诵——永远不能。她有没有想过自己会背诵？哦，如果她回到绿山墙就好了！

At this unpropitious moment her name was called. Somehow Anne—who did not notice the rather guilty little start of surprise the white-lace girl gave, and would not have understood the subtle compliment implied therein if she had—got on her feet, and moved dizzily out to the front. She was so pale that Diana and Jane, down in the audience, clasped each other’s hands in nervous sympathy.
就在这个不吉利的时刻，她的名字被叫到了。不知怎的，安妮——她没有注意到白色蕾丝女孩露出的有点内疚的惊讶，如果她注意到了，她也不会理解其中暗示的微妙的恭维——站起来，头晕地走到前面。她脸色苍白，观众席上的戴安娜和简紧张地同情地紧握彼此的双手。

Anne was the victim of an overwhelming attack of stage fright. Often as she had recited in public, she had never before faced such an audience as this, and the sight of it paralyzed her energies completely. Everything was so strange, so brilliant, so bewildering—the rows of ladies in evening dress, the critical faces, the whole atmosphere of wealth and culture about her. Very different this from the plain benches at the Debating Club, filled with the homely, sympathetic faces of friends and neighbors. These people, she thought, would be merciless critics. Perhaps, like the white-lace girl, they anticipated amusement from her ‘rustic’ efforts. She felt hopelessly, helplessly ashamed and miserable. Her knees trembled, her heart fluttered, a horrible faintness came over her; not a word could she utter, and the next moment she would have fled from the platform despite the humiliation which, she felt, must ever after be her portion if she did so.
安妮是严重怯场的受害者。正如她经常在公开场合朗诵的那样，她以前从未面对过这样的观众，这一景象让她的精力完全瘫痪了。一切都是那么奇怪，那么辉煌，那么令人困惑——一排排穿着晚礼服的女士，挑剔的面孔，她周围的整个财富和文化氛围。这与辩论俱乐部朴素的长凳截然不同，那里摆满了朋友和邻居的朴素而富有同情心的面孔。她认为这些人会是无情的批评者。也许，就像那个白色蕾丝女孩一样，他们期待着她“质朴”的努力带来的乐趣。她感到无助、无助、羞愧和痛苦。她的双膝在颤抖，她的心在狂跳，一种可怕的虚弱感笼罩着她。她一句话也说不出来，下一刻她就会从站台上逃走，尽管她觉得如果她这样做的话，她将永远受到羞辱。

But suddenly, as her dilated, frightened eyes gazed out over the audience, she saw Gilbert Blythe away at the back of the room, bending forward with a smile on his face—a smile which seemed to Anne at once triumphant and taunting. In reality it was nothing of the kind. Gilbert was merely smiling with appreciation of the whole affair in general and of the effect produced by Anne’s slender white form and spiritual face against a background of palms in particular. Josie Pye, whom he had driven over, sat beside him, and her face certainly was both triumphant and taunting. But Anne did not see Josie, and would not have cared if she had. She drew a long breath and flung her head up proudly, courage and determination tingling over her like an electric shock. She WOULD NOT fail before Gilbert Blythe—he should never be able to laugh at her, never, never! Her fright and nervousness vanished; and she began her recitation, her clear, sweet voice reaching to the farthest corner of the room without a tremor or a break. Self-possession was fully restored to her, and in the reaction from that horrible moment of powerlessness she recited as she had never done before. When she finished there were bursts of honest applause. Anne, stepping back to her seat, blushing with shyness and delight, found her hand vigorously clasped and shaken by the stout lady in pink silk.
但突然，当她睁大、惊恐的眼睛凝视着观众时，她看到吉尔伯特·布莱斯站在房间的后面，向前弯着腰，脸上带着微笑——在安妮看来，这种微笑既得意又嘲讽。事实上，事实并非如此。吉尔伯特只是微笑着欣赏整个事件，特别是安妮修长的白色身材和精神面貌在棕榈树背景下所产生的效果。被他撞倒的乔西·派伊坐在他旁边，她的脸上显然既得意又嘲讽。但安妮没有看到乔西，即使看到也不会在意。她长长地吸了一口气，骄傲地抬起头，勇气和决心像触电一样刺痛着她。她不会在吉尔伯特·布莱斯面前失败——他永远不应该嘲笑她，永远，永远！她的恐惧和紧张消失了。她开始朗诵，清亮甜美的声音一直传到房间最远的角落，没有颤抖，也没有间断。她完全恢复了镇静，在那可怕的无能为力的时刻的反应中，她以前所未有的方式背诵了。当她结束时，全场爆发出真诚的掌声。安妮回到自己的座位上，羞涩又高兴，脸红了，发现她的手被那位身穿粉红色丝绸的粗壮女士用力地握着、摇晃着。

‘My dear, you did splendidly,’ she puffed. ‘I’ve been crying like a baby, actually I have. There, they’re encoring you— they’re bound to have you back!’
“亲爱的，你做得非常好，”她气喘吁吁地说。 “我一直哭得像个婴儿，事实上我确实哭过。在那里，他们正在为你加演——他们一定会让你回来的！

‘Oh, I can’t go,’ said Anne confusedly. ‘But yet—I must, or Matthew will be disappointed. He said they would encore me.’
“哦，我不能去，”安妮困惑地说。 “但是——我必须这样做，否则马修会失望的。”他说他们会给我加演。

‘Then don’t disappoint Matthew,’ said the pink lady, laughing.
“那就别让马修失望了，”粉红女郎笑着说道。

Smiling, blushing, limpid eyed, Anne tripped back and gave a quaint, funny little selection that captivated her audience still further. The rest of the evening was quite a little triumph for her.
安妮微笑着，脸红了，眼睛清澈，她回过头来，做了一个古怪、有趣的小选择，进一步吸引了她的观众。那天晚上剩下的时间对她来说是相当小的胜利。

When the concert was over, the stout, pink lady—who was the wife of an American millionaire—took her under her wing, and introduced her to everybody; and everybody was very nice to her. The professional elocutionist, Mrs. Evans, came and chatted with her, telling her that she had a charming voice and ‘interpreted’ her selections beautifully. Even the white-lace girl paid her a languid little compliment. They had supper in the big, beautifully decorated dining room; Diana and Jane were invited to partake of this, also, since they had come with Anne, but Billy was nowhere to be found, having decamped in mortal fear of some such invitation. He was in waiting for them, with the team, however, when it was all over, and the three girls came merrily out into the calm, white moonshine radiance. Anne breathed deeply, and looked into the clear sky beyond the dark boughs of the firs.
音乐会结束后，这位身材矮胖、粉红色的女士——一位美国百万富翁的妻子——将她保护在自己的羽翼之下，并将她介绍给大家；她是一位美国百万富翁的妻子。每个人都对她很好。专业的演讲家埃文斯夫人过来和她聊天，告诉她她的声音很迷人，并且完美地“诠释”了她的选择。就连那个白蕾丝少女也懒洋洋地向她表示了一点恭维。他们在装饰精美的大餐厅里吃晚饭。戴安娜和简也被邀请参加这个活动，因为他们是和安妮一起来的，但比利却不见踪影，因为对此类邀请的极度恐惧而逃走了。然而，当一切结束时，他正在等待她们，和团队一起，三个女孩高兴地走进平静的白色月光光芒中。安妮深深地吸了一口气，望向漆黑的冷杉树枝后面晴朗的天空。

Oh, it was good to be out again in the purity and silence of the night! How great and still and wonderful everything was, with the murmur of the sea sounding through it and the darkling cliffs beyond like grim giants guarding enchanted coasts.
哦，能再次在纯净而寂静的夜晚外出真是太好了！一切是多么伟大、宁静和美妙，大海的低语声穿过它，远处黑暗的悬崖就像冷酷的巨人守卫着迷人的海岸。

‘Hasn’t it been a perfectly splendid time?’ sighed Jane, as they drove away. ‘I just wish I was a rich American and could spend my summer at a hotel and wear jewels and low-necked dresses and have ice cream and chicken salad every blessed day. I’m sure it would be ever so much more fun than teaching school. Anne, your recitation was simply great, although I thought at first you were never going to begin. I think it was better than Mrs. Evans’s.’
“这不是一段非常美好的时光吗？”他们开车离开时，简叹了口气。 “我只希望我是一个富有的美国人，可以在酒店度过夏天，佩戴珠宝，穿着低领连衣裙，每天都有冰淇淋和鸡肉沙拉。我确信这比在学校教书有趣得多。安妮，你的背诵简直太棒了，尽管我一开始以为你永远不会开始。我认为这比埃文斯夫人的更好。

‘Oh, no, don’t say things like that, Jane,’ said Anne quickly, ‘because it sounds silly. It couldn’t be better than Mrs. Evans’s, you know, for she is a professional, and I’m only a schoolgirl, with a little knack of reciting. I’m quite satisfied if the people just liked mine pretty well.’
“哦，不，简，别这么说，”安妮赶紧说道，“因为这听起来很傻。这不可能比埃文斯夫人的更好，你知道，因为她是一位专业人士，而我只是一个有一点背诵技巧的女学生。如果人们很喜欢我的作品，我就很满意了。

‘I’ve a compliment for you, Anne,’ said Diana. ‘At least I think it must be a compliment because of the tone he said it in. Part of it was anyhow. There was an American sitting behind Jane and me—such a romantic-looking man, with coal-black hair and eyes. Josie Pye says he is a distinguished artist, and that her mother’s cousin in Boston is married to a man that used to go to school with him. Well, we heard him say—didn’t we, Jane?—‘Who is that girl on the platform with the splendid Titian hair? She has a face I should like to paint.’ There now, Anne. But what does Titian hair mean?’
“我要向你致意，安妮，”戴安娜说。 “至少我认为这一定是一种恭维，因为他说这句话的语气。无论如何，其中一部分是这样的。”简和我身后坐着一个美国人——一个看上去很浪漫的男人，有着煤黑色的头发和眼睛。乔西·派伊说他是一位杰出的艺术家，她母亲在波士顿的表弟嫁给了一个曾经和他一起上学的男人。好吧，我们听到他说——不是吗，简？——“站台上那个留着漂亮的提香头发的女孩是谁？她有一张我想画的脸。’现在，安妮。但提香的头发意味着什么？

‘Being interpreted it means plain red, I guess,’ laughed Anne. ‘Titian was a very famous artist who liked to paint red-haired women.’
“我猜它的意思是纯红色，”安妮笑道。 “提香是一位非常著名的艺术家，喜欢画红发女人。”

‘DID you see all the diamonds those ladies wore?’ sighed Jane. ‘They were simply dazzling. Wouldn’t you just love to be rich, girls?’
“你看到那些女士们戴的所有钻石了吗？”简叹了口气。 “它们简直令人眼花缭乱。女孩们，你们难道不想变得富有吗？

‘We ARE rich,’ said Anne staunchly. ‘Why, we have sixteen years to our credit, and we’re happy as queens, and we’ve all got imaginations, more or less. Look at that sea, girls—all silver and shadow and vision of things not seen. We couldn’t enjoy its loveliness any more if we had millions of dollars and ropes of diamonds. You wouldn’t change into any of those women if you could. Would you want to be that white-lace girl and wear a sour look all your life, as if you’d been born turning up your nose at the world? Or the pink lady, kind and nice as she is, so stout and short that you’d really no figure at all? Or even Mrs. Evans, with that sad, sad look in her eyes? She must have been dreadfully unhappy sometime to have such a look. You KNOW you wouldn’t, Jane Andrews!’
“我们很富有，”安妮坚定地说。 ‘哎呀，我们有十六年的光荣岁月，我们像女王一样幸福，我们或多或少都有想象力。看看那片大海，女孩们——全都是银色的、阴影和看不见的东西的景象。如果我们拥有数百万美元和钻石绳，我们就无法再享受它的可爱了。如果可以的话，你不会变成这些女人中的任何一个。你想成为那个白色蕾丝女孩，一生都带着酸溜溜的表情，就好像你生来就对世界嗤之以鼻吗？或者粉红女士，虽然她很善良，很友善，但又粗又矮，让你根本看不出身材？或者甚至是埃文斯夫人，她的眼神里充满了悲伤、悲伤？她一定是在某个时候非常不高兴，才会露出这样的表情。你知道你不会的，简·安德鲁斯！

‘I DON’T know—exactly,’ said Jane unconvinced. ‘I think diamonds would comfort a person for a good deal.’
“我不知道——确切地说，”简不相信地说。 “我认为钻石可以给一个人带来很多安慰。”

‘Well, I don’t want to be anyone but myself, even if I go uncomforted by diamonds all my life,’ declared Anne. ‘I’m quite content to be Anne of Green Gables, with my string of pearl beads. I know Matthew gave me as much love with them as ever went with Madame the Pink Lady’s jewels.’
“好吧，我不想成为任何人，除了我自己，即使我一生都得不到钻石的安慰，”安妮宣称。 “我很满足于成为绿山墙的安妮，带着我的珍珠串。我知道马修对它们的喜爱程度不亚于对粉红女郎夫人的珠宝的喜爱。”

Chapter XXXIV
第三十四章


A Queen’s Girl
女王的女孩

The next three weeks were busy ones at Green Gables, for Anne was getting ready to go to Queen’s, and there was much sewing to be done, and many things to be talked over and arranged. Anne’s outfit was ample and pretty, for Matthew saw to that, and Marilla for once made no objections whatever to anything he purchased or suggested. More— one evening she went up to the east gable with her arms full of a delicate pale green material.
接下来的三周在绿山墙是忙碌的，因为安妮正准备去女王学院，还有很多缝纫工作要做，还有很多事情需要讨论和安排。安妮的衣服既宽敞又漂亮，这是马修精心安排的，而玛丽拉这一次对他购买或建议的任何东西都没有提出异议。更有什者——一天晚上，她怀里抱着一种精致的浅绿色材料，登上了东山墙。

‘Anne, here’s something for a nice light dress for you. I don’t suppose you really need it; you’ve plenty of pretty waists; but I thought maybe you’d like something real dressy to wear if you were asked out anywhere of an evening in town, to a party or anything like that. I hear that Jane and Ruby and Josie have got ‘evening dresses,’ as they call them, and I don’t mean you shall be behind them. I got Mrs. Allan to help me pick it in town last week, and we’ll get Emily Gillis to make it for you. Emily has got taste, and her fits aren’t to be equaled.’
“安妮，这是给你准备的一件漂亮的浅色连衣裙。我不认为你真的需要它；你有很多漂亮的腰；但我想如果你晚上被邀请去城里的任何地方出去参加聚会或类似的事情，也许你会想要穿一些真正考究的衣服。我听说简、鲁比和乔西穿了他们所说的“晚礼服”，我并不是说你应该落后于他们。上周我让艾伦夫人帮我在城里挑选，我们会让艾米丽·吉利斯为你做。艾米丽很有品味，她的脾气是无与伦比的。

‘Oh, Marilla, it’s just lovely,’ said Anne. ‘Thank you so much. I don’t believe you ought to be so kind to me—it’s making it harder every day for me to go away.’
“哦，玛丽拉，这真是太可爱了，”安妮说。 '太感谢了。我不认为你应该对我这么好——这让我每天都很难离开。

The green dress was made up with as many tucks and frills and shirrings as Emily’s taste permitted. Anne put it on one evening for Matthew’s and Marilla’s benefit, and recited ‘The Maiden’s Vow’ for them in the kitchen. As Marilla watched the bright, animated face and graceful motions her thoughts went back to the evening Anne had arrived at Green Gables, and memory recalled a vivid picture of the odd, frightened child in her preposterous yellowish-brown wincey dress, the heartbreak looking out of her tearful eyes. Something in the memory brought tears to Marilla’s own eyes.
这件绿色连衣裙在艾米丽的品味允许的范围内添加了尽可能多的褶边、褶边和抽褶。一天晚上，安妮为了马修和玛丽拉的缘故穿上了它，并在厨房里为他们背诵了《少女的誓言》。当玛丽拉看着那张明亮、活泼的脸和优雅的动作时，她的思绪回到了安妮到达绿山墙的那天晚上，记忆中浮现出一幅生动的画面：那个奇怪的、受惊的孩子，穿着她那可笑的黄棕色裙子，心碎地望着窗外。她的泪眼。记忆中的某些东西让玛丽拉自己热泪盈眶。

‘I declare, my recitation has made you cry, Marilla,’ said Anne gaily stooping over Marilla’s chair to drop a butterfly kiss on that lady’s cheek. ‘Now, I call that a positive triumph.’
“我敢说，我的背诵让你哭了，玛丽拉，”安妮快活地说，弯下腰在玛丽拉的椅子上，在那位女士的脸颊上落下一个蝴蝶般的吻。 “现在，我称这是一次积极的胜利。”

‘No, I wasn’t crying over your piece,’ said Marilla, who would have scorned to be betrayed into such weakness by any poetry stuff. ‘I just couldn’t help thinking of the little girl you used to be, Anne. And I was wishing you could have stayed a little girl, even with all your queer ways. You’ve grown up now and you’re going away; and you look so tall and stylish and so—so—different altogether in that dress—as if you didn’t belong in Avonlea at all— and I just got lonesome thinking it all over.’
“不，我没有为你的作品哭泣，”玛丽拉说，她会鄙视被任何诗歌之类的东西背叛而陷入如此软弱的境地。 “我只是忍不住想起你曾经的那个小女孩，安妮。我希望你能一直做个小女孩，即使你的行为方式很奇怪。现在你已经长大了，你要离开了；你穿着那件衣服看起来那么高大、那么时尚，那么——那么——完全不同——就好像你根本不属于埃文利——而我只是觉得孤独。

‘Marilla!’ Anne sat down on Marilla’s gingham lap, took Marilla’s lined face between her hands, and looked gravely and tenderly into Marilla’s eyes. ‘I’m not a bit changed— not really. I’m only just pruned down and branched out. The real ME—back here—is just the same. It won’t make a bit of difference where I go or how much I change outwardly; at heart I shall always be your little Anne, who will love you and Matthew and dear Green Gables more and better every day of her life.’
“玛丽拉！”安妮坐在玛丽拉的格子腿上，双手捧着玛丽拉布满皱纹的脸，严肃而温柔地看着玛丽拉的眼睛。 “我一点也没变——没有真的变。我只是被修剪和分支而已。真正的我——回到这里——是一样的。我去哪里或我外表发生多大变化都不会产生任何影响；从心底来说，我永远是你的小安妮，她会在生命中的每一天越来越爱你、马修和亲爱的绿山墙。

Anne laid her fresh young cheek against Marilla’s faded one, and reached out a hand to pat Matthew’s shoulder. Marilla would have given much just then to have possessed Anne’s power of putting her feelings into words; but nature and habit had willed it otherwise, and she could only put her arms close about her girl and hold her tenderly to her heart, wishing that she need never let her go.
安妮把她年轻的脸颊贴在玛丽拉褪色的脸颊上，伸出一只手拍拍马修的肩膀。玛丽拉当时如果想拥有安妮那样将自己的感情用语言表达出来的能力，她一定会付出很多。但天性和习惯却不允许她这么做，她只能用双臂紧紧地搂住她的女儿，温柔地将她抱在怀里，希望她永远都不需要放开她。

Matthew, with a suspicious moisture in his eyes, got up and went out-of-doors. Under the stars of the blue summer night he walked agitatedly across the yard to the gate under the poplars.
马修眼里泛着怀疑的湿润，起身往门外走去。在蓝色夏夜的星光下，他焦躁地穿过院子，来到白杨树下的大门前。

‘Well now, I guess she ain’t been much spoiled,’ he muttered, proudly. ‘I guess my putting in my oar occasional never did much harm after all. She’s smart and pretty, and loving, too, which is better than all the rest. She’s been a blessing to us, and there never was a luckier mistake than what Mrs. Spencer made—if it WAS luck. I don’t believe it was any such thing. It was Providence, because the Almighty saw we needed her, I reckon.’
“好吧，我想她并没有被宠坏太多，”他自豪地嘀咕道。 “我想我偶尔划桨毕竟没有造成太大伤害。她聪明、漂亮，而且也很有爱心，这一点比其他人都要好。她是我们的福气，没有比斯宾塞夫人所犯的错误更幸运的了——如果这是运气的话。我不相信有这样的事情。我想这是普罗维登斯，因为全能的上帝看到我们需要她。

The day finally came when Anne must go to town. She and Matthew drove in one fine September morning, after a tearful parting with Diana and an untearful practical one— on Marilla’s side at least—with Marilla. But when Anne had gone Diana dried her tears and went to a beach picnic at White Sands with some of her Carmody cousins, where she contrived to enjoy herself tolerably well; while Marilla plunged fiercely into unnecessary work and kept at it all day long with the bitterest kind of heartache—the ache that burns and gnaws and cannot wash itself away in ready tears. But that night, when Marilla went to bed, acutely and miserably conscious that the little gable room at the end of the hall was untenanted by any vivid young life and unstirred by any soft breathing, she buried her face in her pillow, and wept for her girl in a passion of sobs that appalled her when she grew calm enough to reflect how very wicked it must be to take on so about a sinful fellow creature.
安妮必须进城的这一天终于到来了。九月一个晴朗的早晨，她和马修开车出发，与戴安娜含泪告别，又与玛丽拉进行了一场不落泪的实际告别——至少在玛丽拉这边是这样。但当安妮走后，戴安娜擦干了眼泪，和她的一些卡莫迪表兄弟一起去白沙海滩野餐，在那里她设法过得还算愉快。而玛丽拉则猛烈地投入到不必要的工作中，整天带着最痛苦的心痛——那种灼痛、啃咬的疼痛，无法用眼泪将自己洗掉。但那天晚上，当玛丽拉上床睡觉时，她敏锐而悲惨地意识到，大厅尽头的小山墙房间里没有任何生动的年轻生命，也没有任何柔和的呼吸，她把脸埋在枕头里，哭泣着。她的女儿激动地抽泣着，当她平静下来，意识到对一个有罪的同伴如此对待是多么邪恶时，她感到震惊。

Anne and the rest of the Avonlea scholars reached town just in time to hurry off to the Academy. That first day passed pleasantly enough in a whirl of excitement, meeting all the new students, learning to know the professors by sight and being assorted and organized into classes. Anne intended taking up the Second Year work being advised to do so by Miss Stacy; Gilbert Blythe elected to do the same. This meant getting a First Class teacher’s license in one year instead of two, if they were successful; but it also meant much more and harder work. Jane, Ruby, Josie, Charlie, and Moody Spurgeon, not being troubled with the stirrings of ambition, were content to take up the Second Class work. Anne was conscious of a pang of loneliness when she found herself in a room with fifty other students, not one of whom she knew, except the tall, brown-haired boy across the room; and knowing him in the fashion she did, did not help her much, as she reflected pessimistically. Yet she was undeniably glad that they were in the same class; the old rivalry could still be carried on, and Anne would hardly have known what to do if it had been lacking.
安妮和其他埃文利学者及时赶到镇上，赶往学院。第一天在兴奋的旋涡中愉快地度过了，见到了所有的新生，通过视觉认识了教授，并被分类和组织到班级中。在史黛西小姐的建议下，安妮打算开始第二年的工作。吉尔伯特·布莱斯也选择这样做。这意味着如果他们成功的话，他们将在一年内而不是两年内获得一级教师执照；但这也意味着更多、更艰苦的工作。简、鲁比、乔西、查理和穆迪·司布真并没有被雄心勃勃的野心所困扰，他们满足于从事二级工作。当安妮发现自己和另外五十名学生呆在一个房间里时，她感到一阵孤独，除了房间对面那个高个子、棕发的男孩外，她一个都不认识。正如她悲观地反映的那样，以她的方式了解他并没有多大帮助。但不可否认的是，她很高兴他们在同一个班级。过去的竞争仍然可以继续下去，如果没有这种竞争，安妮几乎不知道该怎么办。

‘I wouldn’t feel comfortable without it,’ she thought. ‘Gilbert looks awfully determined. I suppose he’s making up his mind, here and now, to win the medal. What a splendid chin he has! I never noticed it before. I do wish Jane and Ruby had gone in for First Class, too. I suppose I won’t feel so much like a cat in a strange garret when I get acquainted, though. I wonder which of the girls here are going to be my friends. It’s really an interesting speculation. Of course I promised Diana that no Queen’s girl, no matter how much I liked her, should ever be as dear to me as she is; but I’ve lots of second-best affections to bestow. I like the look of that girl with the brown eyes and the crimson waist. She looks vivid and red-rosy; there’s that pale, fair one gazing out of the window. She has lovely hair, and looks as if she knew a thing or two about dreams. I’d like to know them both—know them well—well enough to walk with my arm about their waists, and call them nicknames. But just now I don’t know them and they don’t know me, and probably don’t want to know me particularly. Oh, it’s lonesome!’
“没有它我会感觉不舒服，”她想。 “吉尔伯特看上去意志坚定。我想他现在就下定决心要赢得奖牌。他的下巴多漂亮啊！我以前从未注意到这一点。我真希望简和鲁比也能参加头等舱。不过，我想当我熟悉之后，我就不会觉得自己像一只奇怪阁楼里的猫了。我想知道这里的哪些女孩会成为我的朋友。这确实是一个有趣的猜测。当然，我向戴安娜保证，无​​论我多么喜欢女王的女儿，都不应该像她一样对我如此亲爱；但我还有很多次要的感情要给予。我喜欢那个棕色眼睛和深红色腰肢的女孩的样子。她看上去生动、红润；那个脸色苍白、皮肤白皙的人正凝视着窗外。她有一头漂亮的头发，看起来好像对梦想略知一二。我想了解他们俩——非常了解他们——足够了解，可以用我的手臂搂着他们的腰走路，并给他们起绰号。但现在我不认识他们，他们也不认识我，可能也不是特别想认识我。哦，很孤独！”

It was lonesomer still when Anne found herself alone in her hall bedroom that night at twilight. She was not to board with the other girls, who all had relatives in town to take pity on them. Miss Josephine Barry would have liked to board her, but Beechwood was so far from the Academy that it was out of the question; so miss Barry hunted up a boarding-house, assuring Matthew and Marilla that it was the very place for Anne.
那天晚上，黄昏时分，当安妮发现自己独自一人待在大厅的卧室里时，显得更加孤独。她不能和其他女孩一起寄宿，因为她们在城里都有亲戚同情她们。约瑟芬·巴里小姐本想寄宿在她身边，但比奇伍德离学院太远，根本不可能。于是巴里小姐找到了一间寄宿处，并向马修和玛丽拉保证这就是安妮的住处。

‘The lady who keeps it is a reduced gentlewoman,’ explained Miss Barry. ‘Her husband was a British officer, and she is very careful what sort of boarders she takes. Anne will not meet with any objectionable persons under her roof. The table is good, and the house is near the Academy, in a quiet neighborhood.’
“保管它的女士是一位低级的淑女，”巴里小姐解释道。 “她的丈夫是一名英国军官，她对接待什么样的寄宿生非常谨慎。安妮不会在她的屋檐下遇到任何令人反感的人。桌子很好，房子靠近学院，在一个安静的街区。”

All this might be quite true, and indeed, proved to be so, but it did not materially help Anne in the first agony of homesickness that seized upon her. She looked dismally about her narrow little room, with its dull-papered, pictureless walls, its small iron bedstead and empty bookcase; and a horrible choke came into her throat as she thought of her own white room at Green Gables, where she would have the pleasant consciousness of a great green still outdoors, of sweet peas growing in the garden, and moonlight falling on the orchard, of the brook below the slope and the spruce boughs tossing in the night wind beyond it, of a vast starry sky, and the light from Diana’s window shining out through the gap in the trees. Here there was nothing of this; Anne knew that outside of her window was a hard street, with a network of telephone wires shutting out the sky, the tramp of alien feet, and a thousand lights gleaming on stranger faces. She knew that she was going to cry, and fought against it.
所有这一切可能都是真的，而且确实被证明是这样，但它并没有对安妮最初的思乡之痛产生实质性的帮助。她沮丧地环视着她那间狭窄的小房间，墙壁上贴着暗淡的纸，没有图案，还有小铁床架和空书柜。当她想到自己在绿山墙的白色房间时，一种可怕的窒息感涌上她的喉咙，在那里她会愉快地意识到户外仍然有大片绿色，花园里长着甜豌豆，月光落在果园上，山坡下的小溪，云杉的树枝在夜风中摇曳，广阔的星空，戴安娜窗户的光线从树缝中射出。这里什么也没有。安妮知道窗外是一条坚硬的街道，电话线网络遮蔽了天空，有外星人的脚步声，还有一千盏灯在陌生人的脸上闪烁。她知道自己快要哭了，但她还是忍住了。

‘I WON’T cry. It’s silly—and weak—there’s the third tear splashing down by my nose. There are more coming! I must think of something funny to stop them. But there’s nothing funny except what is connected with Avonlea, and that only makes things worse—four—five—I’m going home next Friday, but that seems a hundred years away. Oh, Matthew is nearly home by now—and Marilla is at the gate, looking down the lane for him—six—seven—eight— oh, there’s no use in counting them! They’re coming in a flood presently. I can’t cheer up—I don’t WANT to cheer up. It’s nicer to be miserable!’
“我不会哭。”这很愚蠢——也很无力——第三滴眼泪从我的鼻子旁流了下来。还有更多的人来了！我必须想出一些有趣的事情来阻止他们。但除了与埃文利有关的事情之外，没有什么好笑的，这只会让事情变得更糟——四——五——我下周五就要回家，但这似乎是一百年后的事了。哦，马修现在快到家了——玛丽拉在门口，朝巷子里寻找他——六——七——八——哦，数是没有用的！他们现在正如洪水般涌来。我无法高兴起来——我不想高兴起来。感到痛苦更好！

The flood of tears would have come, no doubt, had not Josie Pye appeared at that moment. In the joy of seeing a familiar face Anne forgot that there had never been much love lost between her and Josie. As a part of Avonlea life even a Pye was welcome.
毫无疑问，如果乔西·派伊在那一刻没有出现，我一定会热泪盈眶。在看到一张熟悉的面孔的喜悦中，安妮忘记了她和乔西之间从未失去过太多的爱。作为埃文利生活的一部分，即使是派伊人也受到欢迎。

‘I’m so glad you came up,’ Anne said sincerely.
“我很高兴你能来，”安妮真诚地说。

‘You’ve been crying,’ remarked Josie, with aggravating pity. ‘I suppose you’re homesick—some people have so little self-control in that respect. I’ve no intention of being homesick, I can tell you. Town’s too jolly after that poky old Avonlea. I wonder how I ever existed there so long. You shouldn’t cry, Anne; it isn’t becoming, for your nose and eyes get red, and then you seem ALL red. I’d a perfectly scrumptious time in the Academy today. Our French professor is simply a duck. His moustache would give you kerwollowps of the heart. Have you anything eatable around, Anne? I’m literally starving. Ah, I guessed likely Marilla’d load you up with cake. That’s why I called round. Otherwise I’d have gone to the park to hear the band play with Frank Stockley. He boards same place as I do, and he’s a sport. He noticed you in class today, and asked me who the red-headed girl was. I told him you were an orphan that the Cuthberts had adopted, and nobody knew very much about what you’d been before that.’
“你一直在哭。”乔西说道，语气中充满了怜悯。 “我想你想家了——有些人在这方面缺乏自制力。我可以告诉你，我无意想家。自从那个可怜的老埃文利之后，镇上太欢乐了。我想知道我怎么会在那里存在这么久。你不应该哭，安妮；这不合适，因为你的鼻子和眼睛变红了，然后你看起来就全红了。今天我在学院度过了非常愉快的时光。我们的法国教授简直就是一只鸭子。他的胡子会让你心潮澎湃。安妮，你周围有什么吃的吗？我真的快饿死了。啊，我猜玛丽拉可能会给你吃蛋糕。这就是我打电话过来的原因。否则我会去公园听弗兰克·斯托克利的乐队演奏。他和我的位置相同，而且他是一位运动家。今天他在课堂上注意到你，就问我那个红发女孩是谁。我告诉他你是卡斯伯特一家收养的孤儿，没有人知道你之前是什么样的。

Anne was wondering if, after all, solitude and tears were not more satisfactory than Josie Pye’s companionship when Jane and Ruby appeared, each with an inch of Queen’s color ribbon—purple and scarlet—pinned proudly to her coat. As Josie was not ‘speaking’ to Jane just then she had to subside into comparative harmlessness.
当简和鲁比出现时，安妮想知道孤独和泪水是否并不比乔西·派伊的陪伴更令人满意，他们每个人都骄傲地别在她的外套上，有一英寸的女王彩带——紫色和猩红色。由于乔西当时没有和简“说话”，她不得不陷入相对无害的状态。

‘Well,’ said Jane with a sigh, ‘I feel as if I’d lived many moons since the morning. I ought to be home studying my Virgil—that horrid old professor gave us twenty lines to start in on tomorrow. But I simply couldn’t settle down to study tonight. Anne, methinks I see the traces of tears. If you’ve been crying DO own up. It will restore my self-respect, for I was shedding tears freely before Ruby came along. I don’t mind being a goose so much if somebody else is goosey, too. Cake? You’ll give me a teeny piece, won’t you? Thank you. It has the real Avonlea flavor.’
“好吧，”简叹了口气说，“我感觉从早上起我已经活了很多个月了。”我应该回家学习我的维吉尔——那个可怕的老教授给了我们二十行，让我们明天开始。但今晚我根本无法静下心来学习。安妮，我想我看到了泪痕。如果你一直在哭，一定要承认。它将恢复我的自尊，因为在鲁比出现之前我已经流下了眼泪。如果其他人也很笨的话，我也不太介意自己是笨蛋。蛋糕？你会给我一小块，不是吗？谢谢。它具有真正的埃文利风味。”

Ruby, perceiving the Queen’s calendar lying on the table, wanted to know if Anne meant to try for the gold medal.
鲁比看到桌上放着女王的日历，想知道安妮是否打算争夺金牌。

Anne blushed and admitted she was thinking of it.
安妮脸红了，承认她正在考虑这个问题。

‘Oh, that reminds me,’ said Josie, ‘Queen’s is to get one of the Avery scholarships after all. The word came today. Frank Stockley told me—his uncle is one of the board of governors, you know. It will be announced in the Academy tomorrow.’
“哦，这让我想起了，”乔西说，“女王大学毕竟是要获得艾弗里奖学金之一的。”今天这个消息来了。弗兰克·斯托克利告诉我——你知道，他的叔叔是董事会成员之一。明天将在学院宣布。

An Avery scholarship! Anne felt her heart beat more quickly, and the horizons of her ambition shifted and broadened as if by magic. Before Josie had told the news Anne’s highest pinnacle of aspiration had been a teacher’s provincial license, First Class, at the end of the year, and perhaps the medal! But now in one moment Anne saw herself winning the Avery scholarship, taking an Arts course at Redmond College, and graduating in a gown and mortar board, before the echo of Josie’s words had died away. For the Avery scholarship was in English, and Anne felt that here her foot was on native heath.???
艾弗里奖学金！安妮感觉自己的心跳得更快了，她的野心也像变魔术一样变大了。在乔西告诉这个消息之前，安妮的最高愿望是在年底获得省一级教师执照，也许还有奖牌！但此刻，在乔西的话的回声消失之前，安妮看到自己赢得了艾弗里奖学金，在雷德蒙德学院修读艺术课程，穿着礼服和学位帽毕业。因为艾弗里奖学金是英语的，安妮觉得她的脚踩在了本土荒原上。

A wealthy manufacturer of New Brunswick had died and left part of his fortune to endow a large number of scholarships to be distributed among the various high schools and academies of the Maritime Provinces, according to their respective standings. There had been much doubt whether one would be allotted to Queen’s, but the matter was settled at last, and at the end of the year the graduate who made the highest mark in English and English Literature would win the scholarship— two hundred and fifty dollars a year for four years at Redmond College. No wonder that Anne went to bed that night with tingling cheeks!
新不伦瑞克省一位富有的制造商去世后，留下了部分财产，用于捐赠大量奖学金，根据各自的排名，分配给沿海省份的各个高中和学院。曾有人对是否会被分配到女王大学抱有很大疑问，但问题最终得到了解决，年底，在英语和英国文学方面取得最高分的毕业生将获得奖学金——两百五十美元在雷德蒙德学院学习四年，一年。难怪那天晚上安妮睡觉时脸颊发麻！

‘I’ll win that scholarship if hard work can do it,’ she resolved. ‘Wouldn’t Matthew be proud if I got to be a B.A.? Oh, it’s delightful to have ambitions. I’m so glad I have such a lot. And there never seems to be any end to them— that’s the best of it. Just as soon as you attain to one ambition you see another one glittering higher up still. It does make life so interesting.’
“如果努力工作的话，我就能赢得奖学金，”她决心道。 “如果我成为一名学士学位，马修不会感到自豪吗？哦，有抱负是令人高兴的。我很高兴我有这么多。它们似乎永无止境——这就是最好的事情。一旦你实现了一个雄心壮志，你就会看到另一个雄心壮志在更高的地方闪闪发光。它确实让生活变得如此有趣。

Chapter XXXV
第三十五章


The Winter at Queen’s
女王学院的冬天

Anne’s homesickness wore off, greatly helped in the wearing by her weekend visits home. As long as the open weather lasted the Avonlea students went out to Carmody on the new branch railway every Friday night. Diana and several other Avonlea young folks were generally on hand to meet them and they all walked over to Avonlea in a merry party. Anne thought those Friday evening gypsyings over the autumnal hills in the crisp golden air, with the homelights of Avonlea twinkling beyond, were the best and dearest hours in the whole week.
安妮的思乡之情渐渐消失，周末回家对她的穿衣打扮大有帮助。只要天气持续开放，埃文利的学生每周五晚上都会乘坐新的支线铁路前往卡莫迪。戴安娜和其他几个埃文利年轻人通常都会在场迎接他们，他们都在欢乐的聚会中走到埃文利。安妮认为，星期五晚上，吉普赛人在秋天的山丘上，在清新的金色空气中，在远处闪烁着埃文利的家的灯光，是整个星期中最美好的时光。

Gilbert Blythe nearly always walked with Ruby Gillis and carried her satchel for her. Ruby was a very handsome young lady, now thinking herself quite as grown up as she really was; she wore her skirts as long as her mother would let her and did her hair up in town, though she had to take it down when she went home. She had large, bright-blue eyes, a brilliant complexion, and a plump showy figure. She laughed a great deal, was cheerful and good-tempered, and enjoyed the pleasant things of life frankly.
吉尔伯特·布莱斯几乎总是和鲁比·吉利斯一起散步，并帮她拎着书包。鲁比是一位非常英俊的年轻女士，现在她认为自己已经像实际情况一样长大了。只要母亲允许，她就可以穿裙子，在城里她会把头发盘起来，不过回家时她必须把头发取下来。她有一双明亮的蓝色大眼睛、白皙的肤色和丰满艳丽的身材。她爱笑，性格开朗，脾气好，坦然享受生活中的美好事物。

‘But I shouldn’t think she was the sort of girl Gilbert would like,’ whispered Jane to Anne. Anne did not think so either, but she would not have said so for the Avery scholarship. She could not help thinking, too, that it would be very pleasant to have such a friend as Gilbert to jest and chatter with and exchange ideas about books and studies and ambitions. Gilbert had ambitions, she knew, and Ruby Gillis did not seem the sort of person with whom such could be profitably discussed.
“但我不认为她是吉尔伯特喜欢的那种女孩，”简对安妮低声说道。安妮也不这么认为，但为了艾弗里奖学金她不会这么说。她也情不自禁地想，如果有一个像吉尔伯特这样的朋友，可以和他开玩笑、聊天、交换关于书籍、学习和抱负的想法，那该多好啊。她知道，吉尔伯特有野心，而鲁比·吉利斯似乎不是那种可以与他讨论野心的人。

There was no silly sentiment in Anne’s ideas concerning Gilbert. Boys were to her, when she thought about them at all, merely possible good comrades. If she and Gilbert had been friends she would not have cared how many other friends he had nor with whom he walked. She had a genius for friendship; girl friends she had in plenty; but she had a vague consciousness that masculine friendship might also be a good thing to round out one’s conceptions of companionship and furnish broader standpoints of judgment and comparison. Not that Anne could have put her feelings on the matter into just such clear definition. But she thought that if Gilbert had ever walked home with her from the train, over the crisp fields and along the ferny byways, they might have had many and merry and interesting conversations about the new world that was opening around them and their hopes and ambitions therein. Gilbert was a clever young fellow, with his own thoughts about things and a determination to get the best out of life and put the best into it. Ruby Gillis told Jane Andrews that she didn’t understand half the things Gilbert Blythe said; he talked just like Anne Shirley did when she had a thoughtful fit on and for her part she didn’t think it any fun to be bothering about books and that sort of thing when you didn’t have to. Frank Stockley had lots more dash and go, but then he wasn’t half as good-looking as Gilbert and she really couldn’t decide which she liked best!
安妮对吉尔伯特的看法中并没有愚蠢的情绪。当她仔细思考时，男孩对她来说只是可能的好伙伴。如果她和吉尔伯特是朋友，她就不会关心他还有多少朋友，也不会关心他和谁一起散步。她有友谊的天赋。她有很多女朋友；但她有一种模糊的意识，男性友谊也可能是一件好事，可以完善一个人的友谊概念，并提供更广泛的判断和比较立场。安妮无法将她对此事的感受表达得如此清晰。但她想，如果吉尔伯特和她一起从火车上走回家，穿过松软的田野，沿着长满蕨类植物的小道，他们可能会进行许多愉快而有趣的对话，谈论他们周围正在开放的新世界以及他们的希望和抱负。其中。吉尔伯特是一个聪明的年轻人，对事物有自己的想法，并决心充分利用生活并将最好的投入其中。鲁比·吉利斯告诉简·安德鲁斯，吉尔伯特·布莱斯所说的话有一半她听不懂；他说话的方式就像安妮·雪莉（Anne Shirley）穿着深思熟虑的衣服时所做的那样，而就她而言，她认为在不必要的时候为书本之类的事情烦恼有什么乐趣。弗兰克·斯托克利（Frank Stockley）有更多的冲刺和走动，但他的好看程度还没有吉尔伯特的一半，她真的无法决定她最喜欢哪一个！

In the Academy Anne gradually drew a little circle of friends about her, thoughtful, imaginative, ambitious students like herself. With the ‘rose-red’ girl, Stella Maynard, and the ‘dream girl,’ Priscilla Grant, she soon became intimate, finding the latter pale spiritual-looking maiden to be full to the brim of mischief and pranks and fun, while the vivid, black-eyed Stella had a heartful of wistful dreams and fancies, as aerial and rainbow-like as Anne’s own.
在学院里，安妮逐渐建立了一个小朋友圈，这些朋友都是像她一样有思想、富有想象力、雄心勃勃的学生。她很快就与“玫瑰红”女孩斯特拉·梅纳德和“梦中女孩”普里西拉·格兰特变得亲密起来，发现后者面色苍白、精神饱满，充满了恶作剧、恶作剧和乐趣，而生动的黑眼睛斯特拉充满了渴望的梦想和幻想，就像安妮的梦想和幻想一样空中和彩虹。

After the Christmas holidays the Avonlea students gave up going home on Fridays and settled down to hard work. By this time all the Queen’s scholars had gravitated into their own places in the ranks and the various classes had assumed distinct and settled shadings of individuality. Certain facts had become generally accepted. It was admitted that the medal contestants had practically narrowed down to three—Gilbert Blythe, Anne Shirley, and Lewis Wilson; the Avery scholarship was more doubtful, any one of a certain six being a possible winner. The bronze medal for mathematics was considered as good as won by a fat, funny little up-country boy with a bumpy forehead and a patched coat.
圣诞节假期过后，埃文利的学生放弃了周五回家的计划，开始埋头苦干。到了这个时候，所有女王的学者都已经在队伍中占据了自己的位置，各个阶层都呈现出独特而稳定的个性。某些事实已被普遍接受。人们承认，奖牌争夺者实际上已经缩小到三人——吉尔伯特·布莱斯、安妮·雪莉和刘易斯·威尔逊；艾弗里奖学金更值得怀疑，六人中的任何一个都有可能获奖。数学铜牌被认为与一个额头凹凸不平、外套有补丁的肥胖、有趣的内陆小男孩赢得的一样好。

Ruby Gillis was the handsomest girl of the year at the Academy; in the Second Year classes Stella Maynard carried off the palm for beauty, with small but critical minority in favor of Anne Shirley. Ethel Marr was admitted by all competent judges to have the most stylish modes of hair-dressing, and Jane Andrews—plain, plodding, conscientious Jane—carried off the honors in the domestic science course. Even Josie Pye attained a certain preeminence as the sharpesttongued young lady in attendance at Queen’s. So it may be fairly stated that Miss Stacy’s old pupil’s held their own in the wider arena of the academical course.
鲁比·吉利斯 (Ruby Gillis) 是学院年度最英俊的女孩；在二年级班级中，斯特拉·梅纳德 (Stella Maynard) 摘得美丽桂冠，少数但关键的少数人支持安妮·雪莉 (Anne Shirley)。所有称职的评委都承认埃塞尔·马尔拥有最时尚的发型，而简·安德鲁斯——朴实、乏味、认真的简——在家庭科学课程中夺得了荣誉。就连乔西·派伊（Josie Pye）也作为女王学院出席的最尖刻的年轻女士而享有一定的声誉。因此，可以公平地说，史黛西小姐的老学生在更广泛的学术课程领域中占有一席之地。

Anne worked hard and steadily. Her rivalry with Gilbert was as intense as it had ever been in Avonlea school, although it was not known in the class at large, but somehow the bitterness had gone out of it. Anne no longer wished to win for the sake of defeating Gilbert; rather, for the proud consciousness of a well-won victory over a worthy foeman. It would be worth while to win, but she no longer thought life would be insupportable if she did not.
安妮工作努力、稳定。她和吉尔伯特的竞争像在埃文利学校一样激烈，尽管这在全班里并不为人所知，但不知何故，痛苦已经消失了。安妮不再想为了打败吉尔伯特而获胜；相反，是为了战胜一个值得尊敬的敌人而感到自豪。能赢是值得的，但她不再认为如果不赢，生活就会难以忍受。

In spite of lessons the students found opportunities for pleasant times. Anne spent many of her spare hours at Beechwood and generally ate her Sunday dinners there and went to church with Miss Barry. The latter was, as she admitted, growing old, but her black eyes were not dim nor the vigor of her tongue in the least abated. But she never sharpened the latter on Anne, who continued to be a prime favorite with the critical old lady.
尽管有课程，学生们还是找到了度过愉快时光的机会。安妮的大部分业余时间都在比奇伍德度过，周日晚餐通常在那里吃，并与巴里小姐一起去教堂。正如她承认的那样，后者正在变老，但她的黑眼睛并没有变得黯淡，舌头的活力也没有丝毫减弱。但她从未在安妮身上强化后者，安妮仍然是这位挑剔的老太太的最爱。

‘That Anne-girl improves all the time,’ she said. ‘I get tired of other girls—there is such a provoking and eternal sameness about them. Anne has as many shades as a rainbow and every shade is the prettiest while it lasts. I don’t know that she is as amusing as she was when she was a child, but she makes me love her and I like people who make me love them. It saves me so much trouble in making myself love them.’
“那个安妮女孩一直在进步，”她说。 “我厌倦了其他女孩——她们身上有一种令人兴奋的、永恒的相似之处。安妮有如彩虹般的多种色调，每一种色调在持续时都是最美丽的。我不知道她是否像小时候一样有趣，但她让我爱她，我喜欢那些让我爱他们的人。让我自己爱他们省去了很多麻烦。

Then, almost before anybody realized it, spring had come; out in Avonlea the Mayflowers were peeping pinkly out on the sere barrens where snow-wreaths lingered; and the ‘mist of green’ was on the woods and in the valleys. But in Charlottetown harassed Queen’s students thought and talked only of examinations.
然后，几乎在所有人意识到之前，春天已经到来了。在埃文利，五月花号正粉红色地窥视着雪花环徘徊的荒原。树林和山谷里弥漫着“绿色的薄雾”。但在夏洛特敦，女王学院的学生思想受到困扰，只谈论考试。

‘It doesn’t seem possible that the term is nearly over,’ said Anne. ‘Why, last fall it seemed so long to look forward to—a whole winter of studies and classes. And here we are, with the exams looming up next week. Girls, sometimes I feel as if those exams meant everything, but when I look at the big buds swelling on those chestnut trees and the misty blue air at the end of the streets they don’t seem half so important.’
“看来学期快结束了，”安妮说。 ‘为什么，去年秋天，我们似乎期待了很久——一整个冬天的学习和上课。现在我们已经到了，下周考试即将来临。女孩们，有时我觉得这些考试似乎意味着一切，但当我看着栗树上长出的大花蕾和街道尽头雾蒙蒙的蓝色空气时，它们似乎就不那么重要了。

Jane and Ruby and Josie, who had dropped in, did not take this view of it. To them the coming examinations were constantly very important indeed—far more important than chestnut buds or Maytime hazes. It was all very well for Anne, who was sure of passing at least, to have her moments of belittling them, but when your whole future depended on them—as the girls truly thought theirs did— you could not regard them philosophically.
顺便拜访的简、鲁比和乔西并不这么认为。对他们来说，即将到来的考试确实非常重要——比栗花蕾或五月的薄雾重要得多。对于安妮来说，至少肯定会过去，有她贬低她们的时刻，这一切都很好，但是当你的整个未来取决于他们时——就像女孩们真正认为她们的那样——你就不能用哲学的方式看待他们。

‘I’ve lost seven pounds in the last two weeks,’ sighed Jane. ‘It’s no use to say don’t worry. I WILL worry. Worrying helps you some—it seems as if you were doing something when you’re worrying. It would be dreadful if I failed to get my license after going to Queen’s all winter and spending so much money.’
“过去两周我减了七磅，”简叹息道。 ‘说‘别担心’是没有用的。我会担心。担心对你有一些帮助——当你担心时，你似乎在做某事。如果我在女王大学度过了整个冬天并花了那么多钱却拿不到驾照，那就太可怕了。”

‘I don’t care,’ said Josie Pye. ‘If I don’t pass this year I’m coming back next. My father can afford to send me. Anne, Frank Stockley says that Professor Tremaine said Gilbert Blythe was sure to get the medal and that Emily Clay would likely win the Avery scholarship.’
“我不在乎，”乔西·派伊说。 “如果我今年没通过，我明年就会回来。”我父亲有能力送我去。安妮，弗兰克·斯托克利说特里梅因教授说吉尔伯特·布莱斯肯定会获得奖牌，艾米丽·克莱可能会赢得艾弗里奖学金。

‘That may make me feel badly tomorrow, Josie,’ laughed Anne, ‘but just now I honestly feel that as long as I know the violets are coming out all purple down in the hollow below Green Gables and that little ferns are poking their heads up in Lovers’ Lane, it’s not a great deal of difference whether I win the Avery or not. I’ve done my best and I begin to understand what is meant by the ‘joy of the strife.’ Next to trying and winning, the best thing is trying and failing. Girls, don’t talk about exams! Look at that arch of pale green sky over those houses and picture to yourself what it must look like over the purply-dark beech-woods back of Avonlea.’
“乔西，明天这可能会让我感觉很糟糕，”安妮笑道，“但现在我真的感觉到，只要我知道紫罗兰在绿山墙下面的空地上长出全是紫色的，小蕨类植物也伸出了头来。”在情人巷，我是否赢得艾弗里奖并没有多大区别。我已经尽力了，我开始理解“斗争的乐趣”是什么意思。除了尝试和胜利之外，最好的事情就是尝试和失败。女孩们，不要谈论考试！看看那些房子上空的淡绿色天空，想象一下埃文利后面紫黑色的山毛榉树林上空的样子。

‘What are you going to wear for commencement, Jane?’ asked Ruby practically.
“简，你想在毕业典礼上穿什么？”鲁比问得很实际。

Jane and Josie both answered at once and the chatter drifted into a side eddy of fashions. But Anne, with her elbows on the window sill, her soft cheek laid against her clasped hands, and her eyes filled with visions, looked out unheedingly across city roof and spire to that glorious dome of sunset sky and wove her dreams of a possible future from the golden tissue of youth’s own optimism. All the Beyond was hers with its possibilities lurking rosily in the oncoming years—each year a rose of promise to be woven into an immortal chaplet.
简和乔西同时回答，谈话渐渐进入了时尚的漩涡。而安妮，手肘撑在窗台上，柔软的脸颊靠在紧握的双手上，眼睛里充满了幻想，漫不经心地望着城市的屋顶和尖塔，望向落日天空的辉煌圆顶，编织着她对未来可能的梦想。来自年轻人自己乐观的黄金组织。所有的彼岸都是她的，在未来的岁月里，它的可能性潜藏着玫瑰色——每年一朵承诺的玫瑰都会被编织成不朽的花环。

Chapter XXXVI
第三十六章


The Glory and the Dream
荣耀与梦想

On the morning when the final results of all the examinations were to be posted on the bulletin board at Queen’s, Anne and Jane walked down the street together. Jane was smiling and happy; examinations were over and she was comfortably sure she had made a pass at least; further considerations troubled Jane not at all; she had no soaring ambitions and consequently was not affected with the unrest attendant thereon. For we pay a price for everything we get or take in this world; and although ambitions are well worth having, they are not to be cheaply won, but exact their dues of work and self-denial, anxiety and discouragement. Anne was pale and quiet; in ten more minutes she would know who had won the medal and who the Avery. Beyond those ten minutes there did not seem, just then, to be anything worth being called Time.
那天早上，当所有考试的最终结果都将公布在女王大学的布告栏上时，安妮和简一起走在街上。简微笑着，很高兴。考试结束了，她确信自己至少通过了考试。进一步的考虑并没有让简感到困扰。她没有远大的野心，因此并没有受到随之而来的动乱的影响。因为我们为在这个世界上得到或拿走的一切付出代价；尽管雄心壮志是值得拥有的，但它们并不是廉价获得的，而是要付出努力、自我否定、焦虑和沮丧的代价。安妮脸色苍白，安静。再过十分钟，她就会知道谁赢得了奖牌，谁是艾弗里。在那十分钟之后，似乎就没有什么值得称为时间的东西了。

‘Of course you’ll win one of them anyhow,’ said Jane, who couldn’t understand how the faculty could be so unfair as to order it otherwise.
“当然，无论如何你都会赢得其中的一个，”简说，她无法理解教员们怎么会如此不公平，以至于不这样做。

‘I have not hope of the Avery,’ said Anne. ‘Everybody says Emily Clay will win it. And I’m not going to march up to that bulletin board and look at it before everybody. I haven’t the moral courage. I’m going straight to the girls’ dressing room. You must read the announcements and then come and tell me, Jane. And I implore you in the name of our old friendship to do it as quickly as possible. If I have failed just say so, without trying to break it gently; and whatever you do DON’T sympathize with me. Promise me this, Jane.’
“我对艾弗里不抱希望，”安妮说。 “每个人都说艾米莉·克莱会赢。我不会走到那个布告栏前，在所有人面前看它。我没有道德勇气。我要直接去女孩更衣室。你必须阅读公告，然后来告诉我，简。我以我们老友谊的名义恳求你尽快这样做。如果我失败了，就直接说出来，不要试图温和地打破它；无论你做什么，都不要同情我。答应我这个，简。”

Jane promised solemnly; but, as it happened, there was no necessity for such a promise. When they went up the entrance steps of Queen’s they found the hall full of boys who were carrying Gilbert Blythe around on their shoulders and yelling at the tops of their voices, ‘Hurrah for Blythe, Medalist!’
简郑重地答应道；但事实上，这样的承诺是没有必要的。当他们走上女王大学的入口台阶时，他们发现大厅里挤满了男孩，他们把吉尔伯特·布莱斯扛在肩上，大声喊道：“布莱斯万岁，奖章获得者！”

For a moment Anne felt one sickening pang of defeat and disappointment. So she had failed and Gilbert had won! Well, Matthew would be sorry—he had been so sure she would win.
有一瞬间，安妮感到一种令人作呕的失败和失望的痛苦。所以她失败了，吉尔伯特赢了！好吧，马修会很抱歉——他一直确信她会赢。

And then!
进而！

Somebody called out:
有人喊道：

‘Three cheers for Miss Shirley, winner of the Avery!’
“为艾弗里奖得主雪莉小姐欢呼三声！”

‘Oh, Anne,’ gasped Jane, as they fled to the girls’ dressing room amid hearty cheers. ‘Oh, Anne I’m so proud! Isn’t it splendid?’
“哦，安妮，”简喘着气说，他们在热烈的欢呼声中逃向女孩们的更衣室。 ‘哦，安妮，我很自豪！这不是很棒吗？

And then the girls were around them and Anne was the center of a laughing, congratulating group. Her shoulders were thumped and her hands shaken vigorously. She was pushed and pulled and hugged and among it all she managed to whisper to Jane:
然后女孩们就围在她们周围，安妮成为欢笑、祝贺的人群的中心。她的肩膀重重地摔着，双手剧烈地颤抖着。她被推、拉、拥抱，其中她设法对简低声说道：

‘Oh, won’t Matthew and Marilla be pleased! I must write the news home right away.’
“噢，马修和玛丽拉会高兴吗！”我必须立即把这个消息写回家。

Commencement was the next important happening. The exercises were held in the big assembly hall of the Academy. Addresses were given, essays read, songs sung, the public award of diplomas, prizes and medals made.
毕业典礼是下一个重要的事情。演习在学院大礼堂举行。发表了演讲，朗诵了文章，演唱了歌曲，公开颁发了文凭、奖品和奖牌。

Matthew and Marilla were there, with eyes and ears for only one student on the platform—a tall girl in pale green, with faintly flushed cheeks and starry eyes, who read the best essay and was pointed out and whispered about as the Avery winner.
马修和玛丽拉也在场，他们的眼睛和耳朵只关注着讲台上的一个学生——一个穿淡绿色衣服的高个子女孩，脸颊微微泛红，眼睛闪闪发亮，她读了最好的论文，被指出并低声说她是艾弗里奖得主。

‘Reckon you’re glad we kept her, Marilla?’ whispered Matthew, speaking for the first time since he had entered the hall, when Anne had finished her essay.
“你觉得我们留住她你很高兴吗，玛丽拉？”马修低声说道，这是他进入大厅后第一次说话，当时安妮已经完成了她的论文。

‘It’s not the first time I’ve been glad,’ retorted Marilla. ‘You do like to rub things in, Matthew Cuthbert.’
“这不是我第一次感到高兴了，”玛丽拉反驳道。 “你确实喜欢反复强调，马修·库斯伯特。”

Miss Barry, who was sitting behind them, leaned forward and poked Marilla in the back with her parasol.
坐在他们后面的巴里小姐倾身向前，用阳伞戳了戳玛丽拉的后背。

‘Aren’t you proud of that Anne-girl? I am,’ she said.
‘你不为那个安妮女孩感到骄傲吗？我是，”她说。

Anne went home to Avonlea with Matthew and Marilla that evening. She had not been home since April and she felt that she could not wait another day. The apple blossoms were out and the world was fresh and young. Diana was at Green Gables to meet her. In her own white room, where Marilla had set a flowering house rose on the window sill, Anne looked about her and drew a long breath of happiness.
那天晚上，安妮与马修和玛丽拉一起回到了埃文利的家。她从四月起就没有回家过，她觉得自己不能再等了。苹果花开了，世界清新而年轻。戴安娜正在绿山墙迎接她。在她自己的白色房间里，玛丽拉在窗台上放了一朵盛开的玫瑰花，安妮环顾四周，幸福地长长地吸了一口气。

‘Oh, Diana, it’s so good to be back again. It’s so good to see those pointed firs coming out against the pink sky— and that white orchard and the old Snow Queen. Isn’t the breath of the mint delicious? And that tea rose—why, it’s a song and a hope and a prayer all in one. And it’s GOOD to see you again, Diana!’
“哦，戴安娜，很高兴再次回来。很高兴看到那些尖尖的冷杉在粉红色的天空下拔地而起，还有白色的果园和古老的冰雪女王。薄荷的味道是不是很香呢？还有那朵茶玫瑰——为什么，它是一首歌、一种希望和一种祈祷。很高兴再次见到你，戴安娜！”

‘I thought you like that Stella Maynard better than me,’ said Diana reproachfully. ‘Josie Pye told me you did. Josie said you were INFATUATED with her.’
“我以为你比我更喜欢斯特拉·梅纳德，”戴安娜责备地说。 “乔西·派伊告诉我你做到了。乔西说你迷恋她。

Anne laughed and pelted Diana with the faded ‘June lilies’ of her bouquet.
安妮大笑着，把花束中褪色的“六月百合”扔给戴安娜。

‘Stella Maynard is the dearest girl in the world except one and you are that one, Diana,’ she said. ‘I love you more than ever—and I’ve so many things to tell you. But just now I feel as if it were joy enough to sit here and look at you. I’m tired, I think—tired of being studious and ambitious. I mean to spend at least two hours tomorrow lying out in the orchard grass, thinking of absolutely nothing.’
“斯特拉·梅纳德是世界上最可爱的女孩，除了一个，而你就是那个，戴安娜，”她说。 “我比以往任何时候都更爱你——我有很多事情要告诉你。但现在我觉得坐在这里看着你就已经足够快乐了。我想，我累了——厌倦了好学和雄心勃勃。我打算明天至少花两个小时躺在果园的草地上，什么都不去想。

‘You’ve done splendidly, Anne. I suppose you won’t be teaching now that you’ve won the Avery?’
“你做得非常好，安妮。我想你既然赢得了艾弗里奖，就不会再教书了吧？

‘No. I’m going to Redmond in September. Doesn’t it seem wonderful? I’ll have a brand new stock of ambition laid in by that time after three glorious, golden months of vacation. Jane and Ruby are going to teach. Isn’t it splendid to think we all got through even to Moody Spurgeon and Josie Pye?’
'不。我九月要去雷德蒙德。是不是看起来很美妙？在度过了三个光荣的黄金假期后，到那时我将拥有全新的雄心壮志。简和鲁比要教书。想到我们甚至连穆迪·司布真和乔西·派伊都成功了，这不是很棒吗？

‘The Newbridge trustees have offered Jane their school already,’ said Diana. ‘Gilbert Blythe is going to teach, too. He has to. His father can’t afford to send him to college next year, after all, so he means to earn his own way through. I expect he’ll get the school here if Miss Ames decides to leave.’
“新桥的受托人已经向简提供了他们的学校，”戴安娜说。 “吉尔伯特·布莱斯也将教书。他必须。毕竟，他的父亲明年无力供他上大学，所以他打算靠自己的努力完成学业。如果艾姆斯小姐决定离开，我希望他能把学校带到这里。

Anne felt a queer little sensation of dismayed surprise. She had not known this; she had expected that Gilbert would be going to Redmond also. What would she do without their inspiring rivalry? Would not work, even at a coeducational college with a real degree in prospect, be rather flat without her friend the enemy?
安妮感到一种奇怪的、沮丧的、惊讶的感觉。她不知道这一点；她不知道这一点。她预计吉尔伯特也会去雷德蒙德。如果没有他们鼓舞人心的竞争，她会做什么？即使在一所有望获得真正学位的男女同校的大学里，如果没有她的朋友和敌人，工作会不会变得相当平淡？

The next morning at breakfast it suddenly struck Anne that Matthew was not looking well. Surely he was much grayer than he had been a year before.
第二天早上吃早饭时，安妮突然意识到马修的脸色不太好。毫无疑问，他的头发比一年前要灰白得多。

‘Marilla,’ she said hesitatingly when he had gone out, ‘is Matthew quite well?’
“玛丽拉，”他出去后，她犹豫地说，“马修还好吗？”

‘No, he isn’t,’ said Marilla in a troubled tone. ‘He’s had some real bad spells with his heart this spring and he won’t spare himself a mite. I’ve been real worried about him, but he’s some better this while back and we’ve got a good hired man, so I’m hoping he’ll kind of rest and pick up. Maybe he will now you’re home. You always cheer him up.’
“不，他不是，”玛丽拉语气不安地说。 “今年春天，他的心脏确实出现了一些不好的情况，他不会放过自己一丁点。”我真的很担心他，但他最近好多了，而且我们雇了一个很好的人，所以我希望他能休息一下，振作起来。也许现在你回家了，他会的。你总是让他高兴起来。”

Anne leaned across the table and took Marilla’s face in her hands.
安妮靠在桌子上，双手捧着玛丽拉的脸。

‘You are not looking as well yourself as I’d like to see you, Marilla. You look tired. I’m afraid you’ve been working too hard. You must take a rest, now that I’m home. I’m just going to take this one day off to visit all the dear old spots and hunt up my old dreams, and then it will be your turn to be lazy while I do the work.’
“你看起来不像我想见的那么好，玛丽拉。你看起来很累。恐怕你工作太辛苦了。我回来了，你必须休息一下。我只是要休息一天，去参观所有可爱的老地方，追寻我的旧梦，然后轮到你在我工作的时候偷懒了。

Marilla smiled affectionately at her girl.
玛丽拉对她的女儿深情地微笑。

‘It’s not the work—it’s my head. I’ve got a pain so often now—behind my eyes. Doctor Spencer’s been fussing with glasses, but they don’t do me any good. There is a distinguished oculist coming to the Island the last of June and the doctor says I must see him. I guess I’ll have to. I can’t read or sew with any comfort now. Well, Anne, you’ve done real well at Queen’s I must say. To take First Class License in one year and win the Avery scholarship—well, well, Mrs. Lynde says pride goes before a fall and she doesn’t believe in the higher education of women at all; she says it unfits them for woman’s true sphere. I don’t believe a word of it. Speaking of Rachel reminds me—did you hear anything about the Abbey Bank lately, Anne?’
“这不是工作，而是我的头脑。我现在经常感到眼睛后面疼痛。斯宾塞医生一直很在意眼镜，但它们对我没有任何好处。六月下旬，一位杰出的眼科医生来到岛上，医生说我必须去看他。我想我必须这么做。我现在无法轻松地阅读或缝纫。好吧，安妮，我必须说，你在女王学院表现得非常好。一年内获得一等执照并赢得艾弗里奖学金——好吧，好吧，林德夫人说骄傲先于失败，她根本不相信女性接受高等教育；她说这不适合女性真正的领域。我一个字也不信。说到雷切尔，我想起了——安妮，你最近听说过有关修道院银行的消息吗？

‘I heard it was shaky,’ answered Anne. ‘Why?’
“我听说它摇摇欲坠，”安妮回答道。 '为什么？'

‘That is what Rachel said. She was up here one day last week and said there was some talk about it. Matthew felt real worried. All we have saved is in that bank—every penny. I wanted Matthew to put it in the Savings Bank in the first place, but old Mr. Abbey was a great friend of father’s and he’d always banked with him. Matthew said any bank with him at the head of it was good enough for anybody.’
‘雷切尔就是这么说的。上周的一天，她来到这里，说有人在谈论这件事。马修感到非常担心。我们所有的积蓄都存在银行里——每一分钱。我一开始就想让马修把它存入储蓄银行，但老艾比先生是父亲的好朋友，他总是和他一起存钱。马修说，任何由他领导的银行对任何人来说都足够好。

‘I think he has only been its nominal head for many years,’ said Anne. ‘He is a very old man; his nephews are really at the head of the institution.’
“我认为多年来他只是名义上的负责人，”安妮说。 “他已经是一个很老的人了；他的侄子们确实是该机构的领导者。

‘Well, when Rachel told us that, I wanted Matthew to draw our money right out and he said he’d think of it. But Mr. Russell told him yesterday that the bank was all right.’
“好吧，当雷切尔告诉我们这件事时，我希望马修立即取出我们的钱，他说他会考虑的。但拉塞尔先生昨天告诉他银行一切都好。

Anne had her good day in the companionship of the outdoor world. She never forgot that day; it was so bright and golden and fair, so free from shadow and so lavish of blossom. Anne spent some of its rich hours in the orchard; she went to the Dryad’s Bubble and Willowmere and Violet Vale; she called at the manse and had a satisfying talk with Mrs. Allan; and finally in the evening she went with Matthew for the cows, through Lovers’ Lane to the back pasture. The woods were all gloried through with sunset and the warm splendor of it streamed down through the hill gaps in the west. Matthew walked slowly with bent head; Anne, tall and erect, suited her springing step to his.
安妮在户外世界的陪伴下度过了美好的一天。她永远不会忘记那一天；它是如此明亮、金黄、美丽，没有阴影，花朵如此茂盛。安妮在果园里度过了一些充实的时光。她去了树妖泡泡、威洛米尔和紫罗兰谷。她拜访了宅邸，与艾伦夫人进行了一次令人满意的交谈。最后，到了晚上，她和马修一起去放牛，穿过情人巷，来到后面的牧场。树林在夕阳的照耀下熠熠生辉，温暖的光辉从西边的山缝中流淌下来。马修低着头慢慢地走着。安妮身材高大，挺拔，她跳跃的步伐与他的步伐很相配。

‘You’ve been working too hard today, Matthew,’ she said reproachfully. ‘Why won’t you take things easier?’
“你今天工作太辛苦了，马修，”她责备地说。 “你为什么不让事情变得轻松一点呢？”

‘Well now, I can’t seem to,’ said Matthew, as he opened the yard gate to let the cows through. ‘It’s only that I’m getting old, Anne, and keep forgetting it. Well, well, I’ve always worked pretty hard and I’d rather drop in harness.’
“现在，我似乎不能了，”马修一边说，一边打开院门让奶牛通过。 “只是我老了，安妮，老是忘记这件事。”好吧，好吧，我一直工作得很努力，我宁愿放下安全带。

‘If I had been the boy you sent for,’ said Anne wistfully, ‘I’d be able to help you so much now and spare you in a hundred ways. I could find it in my heart to wish I had been, just for that.’
“如果我是你派来的男孩，”安妮若有所思地说，“我现在就能为你提供很多帮助，并以一百种方式宽恕你。”我内心深处希望自己是这样的，只是为了这个。

‘Well now, I’d rather have you than a dozen boys, Anne,’ said Matthew patting her hand. ‘Just mind you that— rather than a dozen boys. Well now, I guess it wasn’t a boy that took the Avery scholarship, was it? It was a girl—my girl—my girl that I’m proud of.’
“好吧，我宁愿要你，也不愿要十几个男孩，安妮，”马修拍拍她的手说道。 “请注意这一点——而不是十几个男孩。”好吧，我想获得艾弗里奖学金的不是一个男孩，是吗？这是一个让我感到自豪的女孩——我的女孩——我的女孩。

He smiled his shy smile at her as he went into the yard. Anne took the memory of it with her when she went to her room that night and sat for a long while at her open window, thinking of the past and dreaming of the future. Outside the Snow Queen was mistily white in the moonshine; the frogs were singing in the marsh beyond Orchard Slope. Anne always remembered the silvery, peaceful beauty and fragrant calm of that night. It was the last night before sorrow touched her life; and no life is ever quite the same again when once that cold, sanctifying touch has been laid upon it.
当他走进院子时，他对她露出害羞的微笑。那天晚上，安妮回到自己的房间，在开着的窗户前坐了很长一段时间，回忆着过去，梦想着未来。外面的雪女王在月光的照耀下呈现出一层薄雾般的白色。青蛙在果园坡外的沼泽里唱歌。安妮永远记得那一夜的银色、宁静的美丽和芬芳的平静。这是悲伤触及她生活之前的最后一晚。一旦受到那种冰冷、神圣的触感，生活就不再是原来的样子了。

Chapter XXXVII
第三十七章


The Reaper Whose Name Is Death
名为死亡的收割者

‘Matthew—Matthew—what is the matter? Matthew, are you sick?’
‘马修——马修——怎么了？马修，你生病了吗？

It was Marilla who spoke, alarm in every jerky word. Anne came through the hall, her hands full of white narcissus,—it was long before Anne could love the sight or odor of white narcissus again,—in time to hear her and to see Matthew standing in the porch doorway, a folded paper in his hand, and his face strangely drawn and gray. Anne dropped her flowers and sprang across the kitchen to him at the same moment as Marilla. They were both too late; before they could reach him Matthew had fallen across the threshold.
说话的是玛丽拉，每一个生涩的词都充满了惊慌。安妮穿过大厅，手里捧满了白水仙花——过了很久，安妮才再次喜欢上了白水仙花的景象或气味——及时听到了她的声音，看到马修站在门廊门口，手里拿着一张折叠起来的纸。他的手和他的脸都奇怪地憔悴而灰白。安妮丢下手中的花，和玛丽拉同时穿过厨房跳到他身边。他们都来得太晚了。他们还没来得及找到马修，马修就摔倒在门槛上了。

‘He’s fainted,’ gasped Marilla. ‘Anne, run for Martin— quick, quick! He’s at the barn.’
“他晕倒了，”玛丽拉喘着气说。 “安妮，跑去找马丁——快点，快点！”他在谷仓。”

Martin, the hired man, who had just driven home from the post office, started at once for the doctor, calling at Orchard Slope on his way to send Mr. and Mrs. Barry over. Mrs. Lynde, who was there on an errand, came too. They found Anne and Marilla distractedly trying to restore Matthew to consciousness.
雇工马丁刚从邮局开车回家，立即出发去见医生，途中顺便拜访了果园坡，送巴里夫妇过来。林德夫人也在这儿出差，也来了。他们发现安妮和玛丽拉心烦意乱地试图让马修恢复意识。

Mrs. Lynde pushed them gently aside, tried his pulse, and then laid her ear over his heart. She looked at their anxious faces sorrowfully and the tears came into her eyes.
林德夫人轻轻地把它们推到一边，试探他的脉搏，然后把耳朵贴在他的心脏上。她悲伤地看着他们焦急的脸，泪水在眼眶里打转。

‘Oh, Marilla,’ she said gravely. ‘I don’t think—we can do anything for him.’
“哦，玛丽拉，”她严肃地说。 “我不认为——我们能为他做任何事情。”

‘Mrs. Lynde, you don’t think—you can’t think Matthew is— is—‘ Anne could not say the dreadful word; she turned sick and pallid.
'太太。林德，你不认为——你不能认为马修是——是——”安妮无法说出这个可怕的词；她说不出话来。她的脸色变得难受，脸色苍白。

‘Child, yes, I’m afraid of it. Look at his face. When you’ve seen that look as often as I have you’ll know what it means.’
‘孩子，是的，我害怕它。看看他的脸。当你像我一样经常看到这种表情时，你就会知道这意味着什么。

Anne looked at the still face and there beheld the seal of the Great Presence.
安妮看着那张静止的脸，在那里看到了伟大存在的印记。

When the doctor came he said that death had been instantaneous and probably painless, caused in all likelihood by some sudden shock. The secret of the shock was discovered to be in the paper Matthew had held and which Martin had brought from the office that morning. It contained an account of the failure of the Abbey Bank.
当医生来时，他说死亡是瞬间的，而且可能是无痛的，很可能是由突然的休克造成的。人们发现震惊的秘密就在马修拿着的那张纸上，那是马丁早上从办公室带来的。其中记载了修道院银行的倒闭。

The news spread quickly through Avonlea, and all day friends and neighbors thronged Green Gables and came and went on errands of kindness for the dead and living. For the first time shy, quiet Matthew Cuthbert was a person of central importance; the white majesty of death had fallen on him and set him apart as one crowned.
这个消息很快就传遍了埃文利，一整天朋友和邻居都聚集在绿山墙，来来去去为死者和生者送去善意。害羞、安静的马修·库斯伯特第一次成为一个重要人物。死亡的白色威严降临在他身上，使他成为一位加冕者。

When the calm night came softly down over Green Gables the old house was hushed and tranquil. In the parlor lay Matthew Cuthbert in his coffin, his long gray hair framing his placid face on which there was a little kindly smile as if he but slept, dreaming pleasant dreams. There were flowers about him—sweet old-fashioned flowers which his mother had planted in the homestead garden in her bridal days and for which Matthew had always had a secret, wordless love. Anne had gathered them and brought them to him, her anguished, tearless eyes burning in her white face. It was the last thing she could do for him.
当平静的夜幕轻柔地降临在绿山墙时，老房子显得寂静而安宁。客厅里，马修·库斯伯特躺在棺材里，长长的灰发衬托着他平静的脸，脸上挂着一丝和蔼的微笑，仿佛他刚刚睡着了，正在做着美梦。他周围都是鲜花——甜美的老式花朵，是他母亲在结婚时在自家花园里种下的，马修一直对它们怀有一种秘密的、无言的爱。安妮把它们收集起来，带到了他面前，她那苍白的脸上痛苦而无泪的眼睛在燃烧。这是她能为他做的最后一件事。

The Barrys and Mrs. Lynde stayed with them that night. Diana, going to the east gable, where Anne was standing at her window, said gently:
那天晚上，巴里夫妇和林德夫人和他们住在一起。戴安娜走到东山墙，安妮正站在窗前，她轻轻地说：

‘Anne dear, would you like to have me sleep with you tonight?’
“亲爱的安妮，今晚你愿意让我和你一起睡吗？”

‘Thank you, Diana.’ Anne looked earnestly into her friend’s face. ‘I think you won’t misunderstand me when I say I want to be alone. I’m not afraid. I haven’t been alone one minute since it happened— and I want to be. I want to be quite silent and quiet and try to realize it. I can’t realize it. Half the time it seems to me that Matthew can’t be dead; and the other half it seems as if he must have been dead for a long time and I’ve had this horrible dull ache ever since.’
“谢谢你，戴安娜。”安妮真诚地看着她朋友的脸。 “当我说我想一个人呆着时，我想你不会误解我。我不害怕。自从这件事发生以来，我一分钟都没有独自一人过——而且我希望如此。我想保持安静并尝试去实现它。我无法意识到这一点。有一半的时间我都觉得马修不可能死。另一半似乎他已经死了很长一段时间了，从那以后我就一直感到可怕的钝痛。

Diana did not quite understand. Marilla’s impassioned grief, breaking all the bounds of natural reserve and lifelong habit in its stormy rush, she could comprehend better than Anne’s tearless agony. But she went away kindly, leaving Anne alone to keep her first vigil with sorrow.
戴安娜不太明白。玛丽拉的强烈悲伤，在暴风雨般的冲刷中打破了自然保留和终生习惯的所有界限，她比安妮不流泪的痛苦更能理解。但她友善地离开了，留下安妮独自悲伤地守夜。

Anne hoped that the tears would come in solitude. It seemed to her a terrible thing that she could not shed a tear for Matthew, whom she had loved so much and who had been so kind to her, Matthew who had walked with her last evening at sunset and was now lying in the dim room below with that awful peace on his brow. But no tears came at first, even when she knelt by her window in the darkness and prayed, looking up to the stars beyond the hills—no tears, only the same horrible dull ache of misery that kept on aching until she fell asleep, worn out with the day’s pain and excitement.
安妮希望眼泪是在孤独中流下的。对她来说，无法为她如此深爱、对她如此友善的马修流一滴眼泪似乎是一件可怕的事情，马修昨晚在日落时与她一起散步，现在躺在昏暗的房间里。下面，他的额头上带着可怕的平静。但一开始并没有流泪，即使她在黑暗中跪在窗边祈祷，仰望山那边的星星——没有泪水，只有同样可怕的、隐隐的痛苦，这种疼痛一直持续到她睡着了，疲惫不堪。摆脱一天的痛苦和兴奋。

In the night she awakened, with the stillness and the darkness about her, and the recollection of the day came over her like a wave of sorrow. She could see Matthew’s face smiling at her as he had smiled when they parted at the gate that last evening—she could hear his voice saying, ‘My girl—my girl that I’m proud of.’ Then the tears came and Anne wept her heart out. Marilla heard her and crept in to comfort her.
夜里她醒来，周围一片寂静和黑暗，白天的回忆像一阵悲伤的浪潮袭上心头。她可以看到马修的脸在对她微笑，就像昨晚他们在门口分开时那样——她可以听到他的声音说：“我的女孩——我为之骄傲的女孩。”然后泪水流了下来，安妮哭了。她的心都出来了。玛丽拉听到了她的声音，爬进去安慰她。

‘There—there—don’t cry so, dearie. It can’t bring him back. It—it—isn’t right to cry so. I knew that today, but I couldn’t help it then. He’d always been such a good, kind brother to me—but God knows best.’
“好了——好了——别哭了，亲爱的。它不能把他带回来。这——这——哭是不对的。今天我知道了这一点，但当时我无法控制。他对我来说一直都是一位善良、善良的兄弟——但上帝最清楚。

‘Oh, just let me cry, Marilla,’ sobbed Anne. ‘The tears don’t hurt me like that ache did. Stay here for a little while with me and keep your arm round me—so. I couldn’t have Diana stay, she’s good and kind and sweet—but it’s not her sorrow—she’s outside of it and she couldn’t come close enough to my heart to help me. It’s our sorrow— yours and mine. Oh, Marilla, what will we do without him?’
“哦，让我哭吧，玛丽拉，”安妮抽泣着。 “眼泪不会像疼痛那样伤害我。和我一起在这儿呆一会儿，用你的手臂搂住我——就这样吧。我不能让戴安娜留下来，她善良、善良、可爱——但这不是她的悲伤——她在悲伤之外，她无法足够接近我的心来帮助我。这是我们的悲伤——你的和我的。哦，玛丽拉，没有他我们该怎么办？

‘We’ve got each other, Anne. I don’t know what I’d do if you weren’t here—if you’d never come. Oh, Anne, I know I’ve been kind of strict and harsh with you maybe— but you mustn’t think I didn’t love you as well as Matthew did, for all that. I want to tell you now when I can. It’s never been easy for me to say things out of my heart, but at times like this it’s easier. I love you as dear as if you were my own flesh and blood and you’ve been my joy and comfort ever since you came to Green Gables.’
“我们有彼此，安妮。如果你不在这里——如果你从不来，我不知道我会做什么。哦，安妮，我知道我可能对你有点严格和严厉——但你千万不要认为我不像马修那样爱你。我现在想尽可能地告诉你。对我来说，说出心里话从来都不容易，但在这样的时候就更容易了。我爱你，就像你是我的骨肉一样，自从你来到绿山墙以来，你一直是我的快乐和安慰。”

Two days afterwards they carried Matthew Cuthbert over his homestead threshold and away from the fields he had tilled and the orchards he had loved and the trees he had planted; and then Avonlea settled back to its usual placidity and even at Green Gables affairs slipped into their old groove and work was done and duties fulfilled with regularity as before, although always with the aching sense of ‘loss in all familiar things.’ Anne, new to grief, thought it almost sad that it could be so—that they COULD go on in the old way without Matthew. She felt something like shame and remorse when she discovered that the sunrises behind the firs and the pale pink buds opening in the garden gave her the old inrush of gladness when she saw them—that Diana’s visits were pleasant to her and that Diana’s merry words and ways moved her to laughter and smiles—that, in brief, the beautiful world of blossom and love and friendship had lost none of its power to please her fancy and thrill her heart, that life still called to her with many insistent voices.
两天后，他们把马修·库斯伯特抬进了他的家园门槛，离开了他耕种的田地、他喜爱的果园和他种植的树木；然后埃文利又恢复了往常的平静，甚至在绿山墙，事务也回到了原来的轨道，工作和职责都像以前一样有规律地完成，尽管总是带着“失去所有熟悉的事物”的痛苦感。安妮，新的悲痛万分，我觉得这几乎是可悲的——没有马修，他们还能以旧方式继续下去。当她发现冷杉后面的日出和花园里绽放的淡粉色花蕾给她带来了昔日的喜悦时，她感到羞愧和悔恨——戴安娜的来访对她来说很愉快，戴安娜的愉快的话语和总而言之，充满花朵、爱情和友谊的美丽世界并没有失去取悦她的幻想和激动她的心灵的力量，生活仍然以许多坚持不懈的声音召唤着她。

‘It seems like disloyalty to Matthew, somehow, to find pleasure in these things now that he has gone,’ she said wistfully to Mrs. Allan one evening when they were together in the manse garden. ‘I miss him so much—all the time— and yet, Mrs. Allan, the world and life seem very beautiful and interesting to me for all. Today Diana said something funny and I found myself laughing. I thought when it happened I could never laugh again. And it somehow seems as if I oughtn’t to.’
一天晚上，当他们一起在豪宅花园里时，她若有所思地对艾伦太太说：“不知何故，马修已经走了，却在这些事情上寻找乐趣，这对他来说似乎是一种不忠诚。” “我非常想念他——一直如此——然而，艾伦夫人，对我来说，世界和生活对所有人来说都非常美丽和有趣。今天戴安娜说了一些有趣的话，我发现自己笑了。我想当这件事发生时我再也笑不出来了。不知何故，我似乎不应该这样做。

‘When Matthew was here he liked to hear you laugh and he liked to know that you found pleasure in the pleasant things around you,’ said Mrs. Allan gently. ‘He is just away now; and he likes to know it just the same. I am sure we should not shut our hearts against the healing influences that nature offers us. But I can understand your feeling. I think we all experience the same thing. We resent the thought that anything can please us when someone we love is no longer here to share the pleasure with us, and we almost feel as if we were unfaithful to our sorrow when we find our interest in life returning to us.’
“当马修在这里的时候，他喜欢听你笑，他喜欢知道你在周围愉快的事物中找到了快乐，”艾伦夫人温柔地说。 “他现在刚刚离开；他也同样喜欢知道这一点。我确信我们不应该对大自然提供的治愈影响关闭我们的心门。但我能理解你的感受。我想我们都经历过同样的事情。当我们所爱的人不再与我们分享快乐时，我们会怨恨任何事情都能让我们高兴；当我们发现生活的兴趣又回到我们身上时，我们几乎感觉好像我们对悲伤不忠。

‘I was down to the graveyard to plant a rosebush on Matthew’s grave this afternoon,’ said Anne dreamily. ‘I took a slip of the little white Scotch rosebush his mother brought out from Scotland long ago; Matthew always liked those roses the best—they were so small and sweet on their thorny stems. It made me feel glad that I could plant it by his grave—as if I were doing something that must please him in taking it there to be near him. I hope he has roses like them in heaven. Perhaps the souls of all those little white roses that he has loved so many summers were all there to meet him. I must go home now. Marilla is all alone and she gets lonely at twilight.’
“今天下午我到墓地去，准备在马修的坟墓上种一株玫瑰花。”安妮若有所思地说。 “我拿了一小片他母亲很久以前从苏格兰带来的白色苏格兰小玫瑰花；马修总是最喜欢那些玫瑰——它们很小，带刺的茎上却很甜。这让我很高兴能把它种在他的坟墓旁——就好像我在做一件让他高兴的事，把它带到他身边，让他靠近。我希望他在天堂也能拥有像他们一样的玫瑰。也许他这么多个夏天所爱的那些小白玫瑰的灵魂都在那里迎接他。我现在必须回家了。玛丽拉孤身一人，黄昏时分她会感到孤独。”

‘She will be lonelier still, I fear, when you go away again to college,’ said Mrs. Allan.
“我担心，当你再次去上大学时，她会更加孤独。”艾伦夫人说。

Anne did not reply; she said good night and went slowly back to green Gables. Marilla was sitting on the front door-steps and Anne sat down beside her. The door was open behind them, held back by a big pink conch shell with hints of sea sunsets in its smooth inner convolutions.
安妮没有回答。她道了晚安，然后慢慢地回到绿山墙。玛丽拉坐在前门台阶上，安妮坐在她旁边。门在他们身后开着，被一个巨大的粉红色海螺壳挡住，海螺光滑的内部盘旋中隐隐有海上日落的痕迹。

Anne gathered some sprays of pale-yellow honeysuckle and put them in her hair. She liked the delicious hint of fragrance, as some aerial benediction, above her every time she moved.
安妮采集了一些淡黄色金银花喷雾，将它们放在头发上。她喜欢每次她走动时，那股淡淡的芳香，就像空中的祝福一样。

‘Doctor Spencer was here while you were away,’ Marilla said. ‘He says that the specialist will be in town tomorrow and he insists that I must go in and have my eyes examined. I suppose I’d better go and have it over. I’ll be more than thankful if the man can give me the right kind of glasses to suit my eyes. You won’t mind staying here alone while I’m away, will you? Martin will have to drive me in and there’s ironing and baking to do.’
“你不在的时候斯宾塞医生就在这里，”玛丽拉说。 “他说专家明天会到城里，他坚持要求我必须进去检查眼睛。我想我最好还是去把事情结束吧。如果那个人能给我一副适合我眼睛的眼镜，我将非常感激。我不在的时候你不会介意一个人呆在这里吧？马丁得开车送我进去，还有熨烫和烘烤的事情要做。

‘I shall be all right. Diana will come over for company for me. I shall attend to the ironing and baking beautifully— you needn’t fear that I’ll starch the handkerchiefs or flavor the cake with liniment.’
‘我会没事的。戴安娜会过来陪我。我会精心地熨烫和烘烤——你不用担心我会给手帕上浆或者用搽剂给蛋糕调味。

Marilla laughed.
玛丽拉笑了。

‘What a girl you were for making mistakes in them days, Anne. You were always getting into scrapes. I did use to think you were possessed. Do you mind the time you dyed your hair?’
“安妮，你真是一个在那个时代犯过错误的女孩。”你总是陷入困境。我以前确实以为你着魔了。你介意染头发的时间吗？

‘Yes, indeed. I shall never forget it,’ smiled Anne, touching the heavy braid of hair that was wound about her shapely head. ‘I laugh a little now sometimes when I think what a worry my hair used to be to me—but I don’t laugh MUCH, because it was a very real trouble then. I did suffer terribly over my hair and my freckles. My freckles are really gone; and people are nice enough to tell me my hair is auburn now—all but Josie Pye. She informed me yesterday that she really thought it was redder than ever, or at least my black dress made it look redder, and she asked me if people who had red hair ever got used to having it. Marilla, I’ve almost decided to give up trying to like Josie Pye. I’ve made what I would once have called a heroic effort to like her, but Josie Pye won’t BE liked.’
'确实是的。我永远不会忘记这一点。”安妮微笑着，抚摸着缠绕在她匀称的头上的厚重辫子。 “现在，有时当我想到我的头发曾经让我多么担心时，我就会笑起来，但我笑得不多，因为那是一个非常现实的麻烦。我确实为我的头发和雀斑感到非常痛苦。我的雀斑真的消失了；人们都很友善地告诉我，我的头发现在变成了赤褐色——除了乔西·派伊。她昨天告诉我，她真的认为它比以前更红了，或者至少我的黑裙子让它看起来更红，她问我红头发的人是否习惯了它。玛丽拉，我几乎决定放弃喜欢乔西·派伊。我曾做出过我曾经称之为英雄的努力来喜欢她，但乔西·派伊不会被喜欢。

‘Josie is a Pye,’ said Marilla sharply, ‘so she can’t help being disagreeable. I suppose people of that kind serve some useful purpose in society, but I must say I don’t know what it is any more than I know the use of thistles. Is Josie going to teach?’
“乔西是派伊人，”玛丽拉尖锐地说，“所以她难免会表现得令人讨厌。我想这类人在社会上有一些有用的目的，但我必须说，我不知道它是什么，就像我不知道蓟的用途一样。乔西要教书吗？

‘No, she is going back to Queen’s next year. So are Moody Spurgeon and Charlie Sloane. Jane and Ruby are going to teach and they have both got schools—Jane at Newbridge and Ruby at some place up west.’
“不，她明年要回到女王学院。”穆迪·司布真和查理·斯隆也是如此。简和鲁比要教书，他们都有学校——简在纽布里奇，鲁比在西部的某个地方。

‘Gilbert Blythe is going to teach too, isn’t he?’
“吉尔伯特·布莱斯也会教书，不是吗？”

‘Yes’—briefly.
“是的”——简短地说。

‘What a nice-looking fellow he is,’ said Marilla absently. ‘I saw him in church last Sunday and he seemed so tall and manly. He looks a lot like his father did at the same age. John Blythe was a nice boy. We used to be real good friends, he and I. People called him my beau.’
“他是个多么英俊的小伙子啊，”玛丽拉心不在焉地说。 “上周日我在教堂看到他，他看起来很高大很有男子气概。他看起来很像他父亲同龄时的样子。约翰·布莱斯是个好孩子。我们曾经是真正的好朋友，他和我。人们称他为我的情人。

Anne looked up with swift interest.
安妮饶有兴趣地抬起头。

‘Oh, Marilla—and what happened?—why didn’t you—‘
“哦，玛丽拉——发生了什么事？——你为什么不——”

‘We had a quarrel. I wouldn’t forgive him when he asked me to. I meant to, after awhile—but I was sulky and angry and I wanted to punish him first. He never came back—the Blythes were all mighty independent. But I always felt—rather sorry. I’ve always kind of wished I’d forgiven him when I had the chance.’
‘我们吵架了。当他要求我原谅他时，我不会原谅他。过了一会儿，我本想这么做的——但我很生气，很生气，我想先惩罚他。他再也没有回来——布莱斯一家都很独立。但我总觉得——相当遗憾。我一直希望有机会的时候能够原谅他。”

‘So you’ve had a bit of romance in your life, too,’ said Anne softly.
“所以你的生活中也有过一点浪漫，”安妮轻声说道。

‘Yes, I suppose you might call it that. You wouldn’t think so to look at me, would you? But you never can tell about people from their outsides. Everybody has forgot about me and John. I’d forgotten myself. But it all came back to me when I saw Gilbert last Sunday.’
“是的，我想你可以这么称呼它。你不会这么想看着我吧？但你永远无法从外部了解人们。每个人都忘记了我和约翰。我忘记了我自己。但当我上周日见到吉尔伯特时，这一切都又回到了我的脑海。”

Chapter XXXVIII
第三十八章


The Bend in the road
路上的弯道

Marilla went to town the next day and returned in the evening. Anne had gone over to Orchard Slope with Diana and came back to find Marilla in the kitchen, sitting by the table with her head leaning on her hand. Something in her dejected attitude struck a chill to Anne’s heart. She had never seen Marilla sit limply inert like that.
玛丽拉第二天进城，晚上回来。安妮和戴安娜一起去了果园坡，回来发现玛丽拉在厨房里，坐在桌边，头靠在手上。她那沮丧的态度让安妮心里感到一阵寒意。她从来没有见过玛丽拉像这样毫无生气地坐着。

‘Are you very tired, Marilla?’
“你很累吗，玛丽拉？”

‘Yes—no—I don’t know,’ said Marilla wearily, looking up. ‘I suppose I am tired but I haven’t thought about it. It’s not that.’
“是的——不——我不知道，”玛丽拉抬起头，疲倦地说。 “我想我很累，但我还没有想到这一点。这并不是说。'

‘Did you see the oculist? What did he say?’ asked Anne anxiously.
‘你看到眼科医生了吗？ “他说什么？”安妮焦急地问道。

‘Yes, I saw him. He examined my eyes. He says that if I give up all reading and sewing entirely and any kind of work that strains the eyes, and if I’m careful not to cry, and if I wear the glasses he’s given me he thinks my eyes may not get any worse and my headaches will be cured. But if I don’t he says I’ll certainly be stone-blind in six months. Blind! Anne, just think of it!’
‘是的，我看到他了。他检查了我的眼睛。他说，如果我完全放弃所有阅读和缝纫以及任何使眼睛疲劳的工作，如果我小心不哭，如果我戴上他给我的眼镜，他认为我的眼睛可能不会变得更糟我的头痛就会痊愈。但如果我不这样做，他说我肯定会在六个月内失明。瞎的！安妮，想想吧！

For a minute Anne, after her first quick exclamation of dismay, was silent. It seemed to her that she could NOT speak. Then she said bravely, but with a catch in her voice:
安妮在第一次快速惊呼之后沉默了一会儿。她觉得自己无法说话。然后她勇敢地说，但声音有些哽咽：

‘Marilla, DON’T think of it. You know he has given you hope. If you are careful you won’t lose your sight altogether; and if his glasses cure your headaches it will be a great thing.’
‘玛丽拉，别想了。你知道他给了你希望。如果你小心的话，你就不会完全失明；如果他的眼镜能治好你的头痛，那就太好了。”

‘I don’t call it much hope,’ said Marilla bitterly. ‘What am I to live for if I can’t read or sew or do anything like that? I might as well be blind—or dead. And as for crying, I can’t help that when I get lonesome. But there, it’s no good talking about it. If you’ll get me a cup of tea I’ll be thankful. I’m about done out. Don’t say anything about this to any one for a spell yet, anyway. I can’t bear that folks should come here to question and sympathize and talk about it.’
“我不认为这有多大希望，”玛丽拉痛苦地说。 “如果我不会读书、不会缝纫或做类似的事情，我还活着做什么？我还不如瞎了——或者死了。至于哭泣，当我感到孤独时，我无法控制。但在那里，谈论它是没有好处的。如果你能给我一杯茶，我将不胜感激。我快要完了。无论如何，暂时不要对任何人谈论这件事。我无法忍受人们来这里质疑、同情和谈论它。

When Marilla had eaten her lunch Anne persuaded her to go to bed. Then Anne went herself to the east gable and sat down by her window in the darkness alone with her tears and her heaviness of heart. How sadly things had changed since she had sat there the night after coming home! Then she had been full of hope and joy and the future had looked rosy with promise. Anne felt as if she had lived years since then, but before she went to bed there was a smile on her lips and peace in her heart. She had looked her duty courageously in the face and found it a friend—as duty ever is when we meet it frankly.
当玛丽拉吃完午餐后，安妮劝她去睡觉。然后安妮独自走到东山墙，在黑暗中独自坐在窗边，泪流满面，心情沉重。自从她回家后的第二天晚上坐在那里以来，事情发生了多么可悲的变化啊！那时她充满了希望和喜悦，未来看起来一片光明。安妮感觉自己好像已经活了很多年了，但在睡觉之前，她的嘴角挂着微笑，心里平静。她勇敢地面对自己的责任，并发现它是一个朋友——当我们坦率地对待它时，责任就是它。

One afternoon a few days later Marilla came slowly in from the front yard where she had been talking to a caller— a man whom Anne knew by sight as Sadler from Carmody. Anne wondered what he could have been saying to bring that look to Marilla’s face.
几天后的一个下午，玛丽拉从前院慢慢地进来，她当时正在和一个来电者交谈——安妮一眼就认出这个人是来自卡莫迪的萨德勒。安妮想知道他到底说了些什么才能让玛丽拉脸上露出这种表情。

‘What did Mr. Sadler want, Marilla?’
“萨德勒先生想要什么，玛丽拉？”

Marilla sat down by the window and looked at Anne. There were tears in her eyes in defiance of the oculist’s prohibition and her voice broke as she said:
玛丽拉坐在窗边，看着安妮。她不顾眼科医生的禁止，眼里含着泪水，声音沙哑地说：

‘He heard that I was going to sell Green Gables and he wants to buy it.’
“他听说我要卖掉《绿山墙》，他想买下它。”

‘Buy it! Buy Green Gables?’ Anne wondered if she had heard aright. ‘Oh, Marilla, you don’t mean to sell Green Gables!’
‘买它！买《绿山墙》？”安妮怀疑自己是否听错了。 “哦，玛丽拉，你不是故意卖掉绿山墙的！”

‘Anne, I don’t know what else is to be done. I’ve thought it all over. If my eyes were strong I could stay here and make out to look after things and manage, with a good hired man. But as it is I can’t. I may lose my sight altogether; and anyway I’ll not be fit to run things. Oh, I never thought I’d live to see the day when I’d have to sell my home. But things would only go behind worse and worse all the time, till nobody would want to buy it. Every cent of our money went in that bank; and there’s some notes Matthew gave last fall to pay. Mrs. Lynde advises me to sell the farm and board somewhere—with her I suppose. It won’t bring much—it’s small and the buildings are old. But it’ll be enough for me to live on I reckon. I’m thankful you’re provided for with that scholarship, Anne. I’m sorry you won’t have a home to come to in your vacations, that’s all, but I suppose you’ll manage somehow.’
“安妮，我不知道还能做什么。我已经想好了。如果我的眼睛够强的话，我就可以留在这里，和一个优秀的雇工一起照顾事物和进行管理。但事实上我不能。我可能会完全失明；无论如何，我不适合管理事情。哦，我从来没想过我能活着看到我不得不卖掉我的房子的那一天。但事情只会变得越来越糟，直到没人愿意买为止。我们的每一分钱都存进了那家银行；去年秋天，马修还开出了一些需要付款的票据。林德夫人建议我把农场和膳宿卖到某个地方——我想是和她一起。它不会带来太多——它很小，而且建筑物又旧。但我想这足以让我生活下去了。我很感激你获得了这份奖学金，安妮。我很抱歉你在假期里没有家可回，仅此而已，但我想你会设法处理的。

Marilla broke down and wept bitterly.
玛丽拉崩溃了，痛哭起来。

‘You mustn’t sell Green Gables,’ said Anne resolutely.
“你不能卖掉绿山墙。”安妮坚决地说。

‘Oh, Anne, I wish I didn’t have to. But you can see for yourself. I can’t stay here alone. I’d go crazy with trouble and loneliness. And my sight would go—I know it would.’
“哦，安妮，我希望我不必这样做。但你可以亲自看看。我不能一个人留在这里。我会因为麻烦和孤独而发疯。我的视力就会消失——我知道它会的。

‘You won’t have to stay here alone, Marilla. I’ll be with you. I’m not going to Redmond.’
“你不必独自留在这里，玛丽拉。我会和你在一起。我不会去雷德蒙德。

‘Not going to Redmond!’ Marilla lifted her worn face from her hands and looked at Anne. ‘Why, what do you mean?’
“不去雷德蒙德！”玛丽拉抬起她那张憔悴的脸，看着安妮。 “为什么，你什么意思？”

‘Just what I say. I’m not going to take the scholarship. I decided so the night after you came home from town. You surely don’t think I could leave you alone in your trouble, Marilla, after all you’ve done for me. I’ve been thinking and planning. Let me tell you my plans. Mr. Barry wants to rent the farm for next year. So you won’t have any bother over that. And I’m going to teach. I’ve applied for the school here—but I don’t expect to get it for I understand the trustees have promised it to Gilbert Blythe. But I can have the Carmody school—Mr. Blair told me so last night at the store. Of course that won’t be quite as nice or convenient as if I had the Avonlea school. But I can board home and drive myself over to Carmody and back, in the warm weather at least. And even in winter I can come home Fridays. We’ll keep a horse for that. Oh, I have it all planned out, Marilla. And I’ll read to you and keep you cheered up. You sha’n’t be dull or lonesome. And we’ll be real cozy and happy here together, you and I.’
‘就是我说的。我不会接受奖学金。你从城里回家后的那天晚上我就决定了。你肯定认为我不会让你独自陷入困境，玛丽拉，毕竟你为我做了这么多。我一直在思考和计划。让我告诉你我的计划。巴里先生想明年租用农场。所以你不会有任何麻烦。我要去教书。我已经申请了这里的学校，但我不指望能得到它，因为我知道受托人已经向吉尔伯特·布莱斯承诺了它。但我可以上卡莫迪学校——先生。布莱尔昨晚在商店告诉我的。当然，这不会像我在埃文利学校那样好或方便。但我可以登机回家，自己开车往返卡莫迪，至少在温暖的天气里是这样。即使在冬天我也可以周五回家。我们会为此保留一匹马。哦，我已经计划好了，玛丽拉。我会读给你听，让你高兴起来。你不会感到无聊或孤独。你和我，我们在一起会感到非常舒适和快乐。”

Marilla had listened like a woman in a dream.
玛丽拉像梦中的女人一样听着。

‘Oh, Anne, I could get on real well if you were here, I know. But I can’t let you sacrifice yourself so for me. It would be terrible.’
“噢，安妮，我知道，如果你在的话，我会相处得很好。”但我不能让你为了我而牺牲自己。那就太可怕了。

‘Nonsense!’ Anne laughed merrily. ‘There is no sacrifice. Nothing could be worse than giving up Green Gables—nothing could hurt me more. We must keep the dear old place. My mind is quite made up, Marilla. I’m NOT going to Redmond; and I AM going to stay here and teach. Don’t you worry about me a bit.’
“废话！”安妮开心地笑道。 ‘没有牺牲。没有什么比放弃绿山墙更糟糕的了——没有什么比这更能伤害我了。我们必须保留这个亲爱的老地方。我已经下定决心了，玛丽拉。我不会去雷德蒙德；我将留在这里教书。你不用担心我一点。

‘But your ambitions—and—‘
“但是你的野心——而且——”

‘I’m just as ambitious as ever. Only, I’ve changed the object of my ambitions. I’m going to be a good teacher— and I’m going to save your eyesight. Besides, I mean to study at home here and take a little college course all by myself. Oh, I’ve dozens of plans, Marilla. I’ve been thinking them out for a week. I shall give life here my best, and I believe it will give its best to me in return. When I left Queen’s my future seemed to stretch out before me like a straight road. I thought I could see along it for many a milestone. Now there is a bend in it. I don’t know what lies around the bend, but I’m going to believe that the best does. It has a fascination of its own, that bend, Marilla. I wonder how the road beyond it goes—what there is of green glory and soft, checkered light and shadows—what new landscapes—what new beauties—what curves and hills and valleys further on.’
“我一如既往地雄心勃勃。只是，我改变了我的野心对象。我会成为一名好老师——而且我会拯救你的视力。此外，我打算在这里在家学习，自学一点大学课程。哦，我有几十个计划，玛丽拉。我已经考虑了一周了。我将尽我所能为这里的生活付出一切，我相信它也会以最好的回报我。当我离开女王大学时，我的未来似乎像一条笔直的道路一样在我面前展开。我以为我可以沿着它看到许多里程碑。现在它有一个弯曲。我不知道拐弯处会发生什么，但我相信最好的会发生。它有它自己的魅力，那个弯曲，玛丽拉。我想知道它后面的路是怎样的——有什么绿色的光彩和柔和、斑驳的光影——有什么新的风景——有什么新的美景——再往前有什么曲线、山丘和山谷。

‘I don’t feel as if I ought to let you give it up,’ said Marilla, referring to the scholarship.
“我觉得我不应该让你放弃它，”玛丽拉在谈到奖学金时说道。

‘But you can’t prevent me. I’m sixteen and a half, ‘obstinate as a mule,’ as Mrs. Lynde once told me,’ laughed Anne. ‘Oh, Marilla, don’t you go pitying me. I don’t like to be pitied, and there is no need for it. I’m heart glad over the very thought of staying at dear Green Gables. Nobody could love it as you and I do—so we must keep it.’
‘但你无法阻止我。 “我十六岁半了，‘像头骡子一样顽固’，正如林德夫人曾经告诉我的那样，”安妮笑道。 “哦，玛丽拉，你别可怜我。我不喜欢被人怜悯，也没有必要。一想到要住在亲爱的绿山墙酒店，我就感到由衷的高兴。没有人能像你我一样热爱它——所以我们必须保留它。

‘You blessed girl!’ said Marilla, yielding. ‘I feel as if you’d given me new life. I guess I ought to stick out and make you go to college—but I know I can’t, so I ain’t going to try. I’ll make it up to you though, Anne.’
“你是有福的女孩！”玛丽拉屈服了。 “我觉得你好像给了我新的生命。我想我应该坚持下去，让你上大学——但我知道我做不到，所以我不会尝试。不过我会补偿你的，安妮。

When it became noised abroad in Avonlea that Anne Shirley had given up the idea of going to college and intended to stay home and teach there was a good deal of discussion over it. Most of the good folks, not knowing about Marilla’s eyes, thought she was foolish. Mrs. Allan did not. She told Anne so in approving words that brought tears of pleasure to the girl’s eyes. Neither did good Mrs. Lynde. She came up one evening and found Anne and Marilla sitting at the front door in the warm, scented summer dusk. They liked to sit there when the twilight came down and the white moths flew about in the garden and the odor of mint filled the dewy air.
当安妮·雪莉放弃上大学并打算留在家里教书的消息在埃文利国外传开时，引起了很多讨论。大多数好心人不知道玛丽拉的眼睛，都认为她很愚蠢。艾伦夫人没有。她用赞同的话语告诉安妮，这让女孩眼里流下了喜悦的泪水。善良的林德夫人也没有。一天晚上，她来到这里，发现安妮和玛丽拉在温暖、芬芳的夏日黄昏中坐在前门。当暮色降临，白色的飞蛾在花园里飞来飞去，带着露珠的空气中弥漫着薄荷的气味时，他们喜欢坐在那里。

Mrs. Rachel deposited her substantial person upon the stone bench by the door, behind which grew a row of tall pink and yellow hollyhocks, with a long breath of mingled weariness and relief.
雷切尔夫人把她那魁梧的身子放在门边的石凳上，石凳后面长着一排高高的粉黄色蜀葵，长长地吐了一口气，混合着疲倦和轻松。

‘I declare I’m getting glad to sit down. I’ve been on my feet all day, and two hundred pounds is a good bit for two feet to carry round. It’s a great blessing not to be fat, Marilla. I hope you appreciate it. Well, Anne, I hear you’ve given up your notion of going to college. I was real glad to hear it. You’ve got as much education now as a woman can be comfortable with. I don’t believe in girls going to college with the men and cramming their heads full of Latin and Greek and all that nonsense.’
“我宣布我很高兴坐下来。我一整天都用脚站着，两只脚可以携带 200 磅的重量。不胖真是天大的福气，玛丽拉。我希望你能欣赏它。好吧，安妮，我听说你已经放弃了上大学的想法。我很高兴听到这个消息。你现在已经接受了女性可以接受的尽可能多的教育。我不相信女孩和男人一起上大学，脑子里塞满了拉丁语和希腊语以及所有这些废话。

‘But I’m going to study Latin and Greek just the same, Mrs. Lynde,’ said Anne laughing. ‘I’m going to take my Arts course right here at Green Gables, and study everything that I would at college.’
“但我还是要学习拉丁语和希腊语，林德夫人，”安妮笑着说。 “我将在绿山墙学院学习艺术课程，并学习我在大学学习的所有内容。”

Mrs. Lynde lifted her hands in holy horror.
林德夫人惊恐地举起双手。

‘Anne Shirley, you’ll kill yourself.’
“安妮·雪莉，你会自杀的。”

‘Not a bit of it. I shall thrive on it. Oh, I’m not going to overdo things. As ‘Josiah Allen’s wife,’ says, I shall be ‘mejum’. But I’ll have lots of spare time in the long winter evenings, and I’ve no vocation for fancy work. I’m going to teach over at Carmody, you know.’
‘一点也没有。我将靠它茁壮成长。哦，我不会做得太过分。正如“乔赛亚·艾伦的妻子”所说，我将成为“mejum”。但在漫长的冬夜里我会有很多空闲时间，而且我没有兴趣做花哨的工作。你知道，我要去卡莫迪教书。

‘I don’t know it. I guess you’re going to teach right here in Avonlea. The trustees have decided to give you the school.’
‘我不知道。我猜你会在埃文利教书。受托人决定把学校交给你。”

‘Mrs. Lynde!’ cried Anne, springing to her feet in her surprise. ‘Why, I thought they had promised it to Gilbert Blythe!’
'太太。 “林德！”安妮惊讶地站了起来，大声喊道。 “哎呀，我以为他们已经答应给吉尔伯特·布莱斯了！”

‘So they did. But as soon as Gilbert heard that you had applied for it he went to them—they had a business meeting at the school last night, you know—and told them that he withdrew his application, and suggested that they accept yours. He said he was going to teach at White Sands. Of course he knew how much you wanted to stay with Marilla, and I must say I think it was real kind and thoughtful in him, that’s what. Real self-sacrificing, too, for he’ll have his board to pay at White Sands, and everybody knows he’s got to earn his own way through college. So the trustees decided to take you. I was tickled to death when Thomas came home and told me.’
‘他们就这么做了。但吉尔伯特一听说你已经申请了，他就去找他们——你知道，他们昨晚在学校开了一个商务会议——告诉他们他撤回了他的申请，并建议他们接受你的申请。他说他要去白沙教书。当然，他知道你有多想和玛丽拉在一起，我必须说，我认为他真的很友善，很体贴，就是这样。这也是真正的自我牺牲，因为他将在白沙支付他的伙食费用，而且每个人都知道他必须靠自己的努力读完大学。所以受托人决定带你去。当托马斯回家告诉我这件事时，我高兴极了。”

‘I don’t feel that I ought to take it,’ murmured Anne. ‘I mean—I don’t think I ought to let Gilbert make such a sacrifice for—for me.’
“我觉得我不应该接受它，”安妮低声说道。 “我的意思是——我认为我不应该让吉尔伯特为——为我做出这样的牺牲。”

‘I guess you can’t prevent him now. He’s signed papers with the White Sands trustees. So it wouldn’t do him any good now if you were to refuse. Of course you’ll take the school. You’ll get along all right, now that there are no Pyes going. Josie was the last of them, and a good thing she was, that’s what. There’s been some Pye or other going to Avonlea school for the last twenty years, and I guess their mission in life was to keep school teachers reminded that earth isn’t their home. Bless my heart! What does all that winking and blinking at the Barry gable mean?’
“我想你现在无法阻止他。他与白沙受托人签署了文件。所以现在如果你拒绝的话对他来说没有任何好处。当然你会选择学校。既然派斯不在了，你们会相处得很好。乔西是他们中的最后一个，她是个好人，就是这样。在过去的二十年里，有一些派伊或其他人在埃文利学校上学，我想他们的人生使命是让学校老师提醒地球不是他们的家。祝福我的心！那些在巴里山墙上眨眼睛的人意味着什么？

‘Diana is signaling for me to go over,’ laughed Anne. ‘You know we keep up the old custom. Excuse me while I run over and see what she wants.’
“戴安娜示意我过去。”安妮笑道。 “你知道我们保留着古老的习俗。对不起，我跑过去看看她想要什么。

Anne ran down the clover slope like a deer, and disappeared in the firry shadows of the Haunted Wood. Mrs. Lynde looked after her indulgently.
安妮像鹿一样跑下三叶草斜坡，消失在鬼林的冷杉阴影中。林德太太溺爱地照顾她。

‘There’s a good deal of the child about her yet in some ways.’
“但在某些方面，她身上还是有很多孩子的影子。”

‘There’s a good deal more of the woman about her in others,’ retorted Marilla, with a momentary return of her old crispness.
“在别人身上，她更有女人味。”玛丽拉反驳道，她立刻又恢复了往日的干脆利落。

But crispness was no longer Marilla’s distinguishing characteristic. As Mrs. Lynde told her Thomas that night.
但清爽不再是玛丽拉的显着特征。正如林德夫人那天晚上告诉她托马斯的那样。

‘Marilla Cuthbert has got MELLOW. That’s what.’
“玛丽拉·库斯伯特已经变得成熟了。”就是这样。

Anne went to the little Avonlea graveyard the next evening to put fresh flowers on Matthew’s grave and water the Scotch rosebush. She lingered there until dusk, liking the peace and calm of the little place, with its poplars whose rustle was like low, friendly speech, and its whispering grasses growing at will among the graves. When she finally left it and walked down the long hill that sloped to the Lake of Shining Waters it was past sunset and all Avonlea lay before her in a dreamlike afterlight— ‘a haunt of ancient peace.’ There was a freshness in the air as of a wind that had blown over honey-sweet fields of clover. Home lights twinkled out here and there among the homestead trees. Beyond lay the sea, misty and purple, with its haunting, unceasing murmur. The west was a glory of soft mingled hues, and the pond reflected them all in still softer shadings. The beauty of it all thrilled Anne’s heart, and she gratefully opened the gates of her soul to it.
第二天晚上，安妮去了埃文利的小墓地，在马修的坟墓上放了鲜花，并给苏格兰玫瑰丛浇水。她在那里逗留到了黄昏，喜欢这个小地方的安宁与平静，白杨树的沙沙声像低沉而友好的谈话，坟墓间随意生长的小草。当她最终离开这里，走下通往闪亮水域湖的长山时，已是日落时分，整个埃文利都在梦幻般的余光中展现在她面前——“一个古老宁静的地方。”空气中弥漫着清新的气息。一阵风吹过甜蜜的三叶草田。家园的树木间到处闪烁着家中的灯光。远处是大海，雾蒙蒙的，紫色的，伴随着令人难以忘怀的、不断的低语声。西方是一片柔和的混合色调的光辉，池塘以更柔和的阴影反射着它们。这一切的美丽震撼了安妮的心，她感激地向这一切打开了自己的灵魂之门。

‘Dear old world,’ she murmured, ‘you are very lovely, and I am glad to be alive in you.’
“亲爱的旧世界，”她低声说道，“你非常可爱，我很高兴能活在你的心里。”

Halfway down the hill a tall lad came whistling out of a gate before the Blythe homestead. It was Gilbert, and the whistle died on his lips as he recognized Anne. He lifted his cap courteously, but he would have passed on in silence, if Anne had not stopped and held out her hand.
下山的半路上，一个高个子小伙子吹着口哨从布莱斯庄园前的大门里走了出来。那是吉尔伯特，当他认出安妮时，他的口哨声就消失了。他礼貌地举起帽子，但如果安妮没有停下来伸出手，他就会默默地走开。

‘Gilbert,’ she said, with scarlet cheeks, ‘I want to thank you for giving up the school for me. It was very good of you—and I want you to know that I appreciate it.’
“吉尔伯特，”她红着脸说道，“我要感谢你为了我放弃了学校。你真是太好了——我想让你知道我很感激。

Gilbert took the offered hand eagerly.
吉尔伯特热切地握住了对方伸出的手。

‘It wasn’t particularly good of me at all, Anne. I was pleased to be able to do you some small service. Are we going to be friends after this? Have you really forgiven me my old fault?’
“这对我来说一点也不好，安妮。很高兴能为您提供一些小服务。以后我们会成为朋友吗？你真的原谅我的旧错了吗？

Anne laughed and tried unsuccessfully to withdraw her hand.
安妮笑了笑，试图抽回手，但没有成功。

‘I forgave you that day by the pond landing, although I didn’t know it. What a stubborn little goose I was. I’ve been—I may as well make a complete confession—I’ve been sorry ever since.’
“那天在池塘边我原谅了你，尽管我并不知道。我真是一只顽固的小鹅啊。我一直——我不妨彻底坦白——从那时起我就一直很抱歉。

‘We are going to be the best of friends,’ said Gilbert, jubilantly. ‘We were born to be good friends, Anne. You’ve thwarted destiny enough. I know we can help each other in many ways. You are going to keep up your studies, aren’t you? So am I. Come, I’m going to walk home with you.’
“我们将成为最好的朋友，”吉尔伯特兴高采烈地说。 “我们生来就是好朋友，安妮。你已经足够挫败命运了。我知道我们可以在很多方面互相帮助。你会继续你的学业，不是吗？我也是。来吧，我和你一起走回家。”

Marilla looked curiously at Anne when the latter entered the kitchen.
当安妮走进厨房时，玛丽拉好奇地看着她。

‘Who was that came up the lane with you, Anne?’
“和你一起从巷子里来的是谁，安妮？”

‘Gilbert Blythe,’ answered Anne, vexed to find herself blushing. ‘I met him on Barry’s hill.’
“吉尔伯特·布莱斯。”安妮回答道，她发现自己脸红了，很恼火。 “我在巴里山上遇见了他。”

‘I didn’t think you and Gilbert Blythe were such good friends that you’d stand for half an hour at the gate talking to him,’ said Marilla with a dry smile.
“我没想到你和吉尔伯特·布莱斯是这么好的朋友，竟然会在门口站了半个小时跟他说话。”玛丽拉干笑着说道。

‘We haven’t been—we’ve been good enemies. But we have decided that it will be much more sensible to be good friends in the future. Were we really there half an hour? It seemed just a few minutes. But, you see, we have five years’ lost conversations to catch up with, Marilla.’
“我们不是——我们一直是好敌人。但我们决定，以后做好朋友会更明智。我们真的在那里呆了半个小时吗？看起来只有几分钟。但是，你看，我们还有五年失去的谈话需要补上，玛丽拉。”

Anne sat long at her window that night companioned by a glad content. The wind purred softly in the cherry boughs, and the mint breaths came up to her. The stars twinkled over the pointed firs in the hollow and Diana’s light gleamed through the old gap.
那天晚上，安妮在窗前坐了很长时间，心情愉悦。风在樱桃树枝上轻轻地呼呼作响，薄荷的气息向她袭来。星星在空洞里尖尖的冷杉上闪烁，戴安娜的光芒透过旧的缝隙闪烁着。

Anne’s horizons had closed in since the night she had sat there after coming home from Queen’s; but if the path set before her feet was to be narrow she knew that flowers of quiet happiness would bloom along it. The joy of sincere work and worthy aspiration and congenial friendship were to be hers; nothing could rob her of her birthright of fancy or her ideal world of dreams. And there was always the bend in the road!
自从那天晚上安妮从皇后学院回家后坐在那里之后，她的视野就变得狭窄了。但如果她脚前的路很窄，她知道沿着它会绽放出安静幸福的花朵。真诚工作的快乐、有价值的抱负和志趣相投的友谊都属于她。没有什么可以剥夺她与生俱来的幻想权利或她理想的梦想世界。而且路上总是有弯的！

‘God’s in his heaven, all’s right with the world,’ whispered Anne softly.
“上帝在天堂，世界一切都好。”安妮轻声低语道。