
Agnes Grey
艾格尼丝·格雷

By Anne Bronte
安妮·勃朗特

CHAPTER I—THE PARSONAGE
第一章牧师住宅

All true histories contain instruction; though, in some, the treasure may be hard to find, and when found, so trivial in quantity, that the dry, shrivelled kernel scarcely compensates for the trouble of cracking the nut. Whether this be the case with my history or not, I am hardly competent to judge. I sometimes think it might prove useful to some, and entertaining to others; but the world may judge for itself. Shielded by my own obscurity, and by the lapse of years, and a few fictitious names, I do not fear to venture; and will candidly lay before the public what I would not disclose to the most intimate friend.
所有真实的历史都包含指导；然而，在某些情况下，这种宝藏可能很难找到，而且即使找到了，数量也微不足道，干燥、干瘪的果仁几乎无法弥补敲开坚果的麻烦。我的历史是否如此，我很难做出判断。有时我认为它可能对某些人有用，对其他人来说可能有趣；但世界可以自行判断。由于我自己的默默无闻、岁月的流逝和一些虚构的名字的保护，我不害怕冒险；并将坦诚地向公众透露我不会向最亲密的朋友透露的事情。

My father was a clergyman of the north of England, who was deservedly respected by all who knew him; and, in his younger days, lived pretty comfortably on the joint income of a small incumbency and a snug little property of his own. My mother, who married him against the wishes of her friends, was a squire’s daughter, and a woman of spirit. In vain it was represented to her, that if she became the poor parson’s wife, she must relinquish her carriage and her lady’s-maid, and all the luxuries and elegancies of affluence; which to her were little less than the necessaries of life. A carriage and a lady’s-maid were great conveniences; but, thank heaven, she had feet to carry her, and hands to minister to her own necessities. An elegant house and spacious grounds were not to be despised; but she would rather live in a cottage with Richard Grey than in a palace with any other man in the world.
我的父亲是英格兰北部的一名牧师，所有认识他的人都对他充满敬意。在他年轻的时候，他依靠一个小职位的共同收入和自己的一小块舒适的财产过着相当舒适的生活。我的母亲是一位乡绅的女儿，也是一位有精神的女人，她不顾朋友们的反对嫁给了他。有人向她表示，如果她成为了可怜的牧师的妻子，她就必须放弃她的马车和女仆，以及所有的奢华和优雅。这对她来说不亚于生活必需品。马车和女仆给我们带来了很大的便利。但是，谢天谢地，她有脚可以支撑自己，有双手可以满足自己的需要。优雅的房子和宽敞的场地是不容忽视的；但她宁愿和理查德·格雷一起住在小屋里，也不愿和世界上任何其他男人一起住在宫殿里。

Finding arguments of no avail, her father, at length, told the lovers they might marry if they pleased; but, in so doing, his daughter would forfeit every fraction of her fortune. He expected this would cool the ardour of both; but he was mistaken. My father knew too well my mother’s superior worth not to be sensible that she was a valuable fortune in herself: and if she would but consent to embellish his humble hearth he should be happy to take her on any terms; while she, on her part, would rather labour with her own hands than be divided from the man she loved, whose happiness it would be her joy to make, and who was already one with her in heart and soul. So her fortune went to swell the purse of a wiser sister, who had married a rich nabob; and she, to the wonder and compassionate regret of all who knew her, went to bury herself in the homely village parsonage among the hills of -. And yet, in spite of all this, and in spite of my mother’s high spirit and my father’s whims, I believe you might search all England through, and fail to find a happier couple.
她的父亲发现争论无济于事，最后告诉这对恋人，如果他们愿意，他们可以结婚。但是，如果这样做，他的女儿就会失去她财产的每一部分。他预计这会冷却两人的热情。但他错了。我父亲非常清楚我母亲的优越价值，他不会不意识到她本身就是一笔宝贵的财富：如果她愿意装饰他简陋的壁炉，他会很乐意以任何条件接纳她；而她，则宁愿亲手劳动，也不愿与她所爱的男人分开，为他带来幸福是她的快乐，而且他已经在心灵和灵魂上与她合一。因此，她的财产让她的一个聪明的姐姐的钱包变得鼓起来，她嫁给了一个富有的富豪。令所有认识她的人感到惊讶和同情的遗憾的是，她把自己埋在了——山间朴素的乡村牧师住宅里。然而，尽管如此，尽管我母亲精神抖擞，父亲反复无常，我相信你可能走遍整个英格兰，也找不到一对更幸福的夫妇。

Of six children, my sister Mary and myself were the only two that survived the perils of infancy and early childhood. I, being the younger by five or six years, was always regarded as THE child, and the pet of the family: father, mother, and sister, all combined to spoil me—not by foolish indulgence, to render me fractious and ungovernable, but by ceaseless kindness, to make me too helpless and dependent—too unfit for buffeting with the cares and turmoils of life.
在六个孩子中，我和妹妹玛丽是唯一两个在婴儿期和幼儿期的危险中幸存下来的人。我，比我小五六岁，总是被视为孩子，是家里的宠物：父亲、母亲和妹妹，所有这些都在宠坏我——而不是愚蠢的放纵，使我变得暴躁和难以驾驭，但不断的仁慈，让我变得太无助和依赖——太不适合承受生活的忧虑和动荡。

Mary and I were brought up in the strictest seclusion. My mother, being at once highly accomplished, well informed, and fond of employment, took the whole charge of our education on herself, with the exception of Latin—which my father undertook to teach us—so that we never even went to school; and, as there was no society in the neighbourhood, our only intercourse with the world consisted in a stately tea-party, now and then, with the principal farmers and tradespeople of the vicinity (just to avoid being stigmatized as too proud to consort with our neighbours), and an annual visit to our paternal grandfather’s; where himself, our kind grandmamma, a maiden aunt, and two or three elderly ladies and gentlemen, were the only persons we ever saw. Sometimes our mother would amuse us with stories and anecdotes of her younger days, which, while they entertained us amazingly, frequently awoke—in ME, at least—a secret wish to see a little more of the world.
玛丽和我是在最严格的隔离环境中长大的。我的母亲才华横溢，见多识广，又喜欢工作，她把我们的教育全部交给了她自己，除了拉丁语——我父亲负责教我们——所以我们甚至从未上过学；因为拉丁语是我父亲教给我们的。而且，由于附近没有社会，我们与世界的唯一交往就是时不时地与附近的主要农民和商人举行一次庄严的茶会（只是为了避免被指责为过于骄傲而无法与他们打交道）我们的邻居），以及每年拜访我们的祖父；在那里，我们见过的只有他本人、我们慈祥的奶奶、一位未婚的阿姨和两三位上了年纪的女士和先生。有时，我们的母亲会用她年轻时的故事和轶事来逗我们开心，虽然这些故事和轶事给我们带来了惊人的乐趣，但也经常唤醒——至少在我身上——一种想多看看这个世界的秘密愿望。

I thought she must have been very happy: but she never seemed to regret past times. My father, however, whose temper was neither tranquil nor cheerful by nature, often unduly vexed himself with thinking of the sacrifices his dear wife had made for him; and troubled his head with revolving endless schemes for the augmentation of his little fortune, for her sake and ours. In vain my mother assured him she was quite satisfied; and if he would but lay by a little for the children, we should all have plenty, both for time present and to come: but saving was not my father’s forte. He would not run in debt (at least, my mother took good care he should not), but while he had money he must spend it: he liked to see his house comfortable, and his wife and daughters well clothed, and well attended; and besides, he was charitably disposed, and liked to give to the poor, according to his means: or, as some might think, beyond them.
我想她一定很幸福：但她似乎从不后悔过去的时光。然而，我的父亲生性既不平静，也不开朗，一想到他亲爱的妻子为他做出的牺牲，他常常感到过分烦恼。为了她和我们的缘故，为了增加他那点微薄的财产，他脑子里不断地盘旋着无数的计划。我母亲向他保证她很满意，但徒劳无功。如果他愿意为孩子们存一点钱，我们现在和将来都会有足够的钱：但储蓄不是我父亲的强项。他不会负债累累（至少，我母亲照顾得很好，他不应该这么做），但只要他有钱，他就必须花掉它：他喜欢看到他的房子舒适，他的妻子和女儿穿得很漂亮，受到很好的照顾；此外，他心地善良，喜欢根据自己的能力向穷人施舍，或者像有些人认为的那样，超出他们的能力。

At length, however, a kind friend suggested to him a means of doubling his private property at one stroke; and further increasing it, hereafter, to an untold amount. This friend was a merchant, a man of enterprising spirit and undoubted talent, who was somewhat straitened in his mercantile pursuits for want of capital; but generously proposed to give my father a fair share of his profits, if he would only entrust him with what he could spare; and he thought he might safely promise that whatever sum the latter chose to put into his hands, it should bring him in cent. per cent. The small patrimony was speedily sold, and the whole of its price was deposited in the hands of the friendly merchant; who as promptly proceeded to ship his cargo, and prepare for his voyage.
然而，最终，一位好心的朋友向他建议了一种方法，使他的私有财产一下子增加一倍；并在以后进一步增加，达到难以估量的数量。这位朋友是一位商人，一位有进取心、才华横溢的人，但由于缺乏资金，他的商业追求有些拮据。但他慷慨地提议，只要我父亲愿意把多余的东西托付给他，他就可以将他的利润公平地分给他。他认为他可以放心地承诺，无论后者选择将多少钱交到他手中，他都会得到分钱。百分。这笔小小的遗产很快就被卖掉了，全部价款都存到了这位友好商人的手里。他立即开始装运货物，并准备航行。

My father was delighted, so were we all, with our brightening prospects. For the present, it is true, we were reduced to the narrow income of the curacy; but my father seemed to think there was no necessity for scrupulously restricting our expenditure to that; so, with a standing bill at Mr. Jackson’s, another at Smith’s, and a third at Hobson’s, we got along even more comfortably than before: though my mother affirmed we had better keep within bounds, for our prospects of wealth were but precarious, after all; and if my father would only trust everything to her management, he should never feel himself stinted: but he, for once, was incorrigible.
看到光明的前景，我父亲很高兴，我们大家也很高兴。确实，目前我们的神职人员收入已经微薄。但我父亲似乎认为没有必要严格限制我们的支出；因此，在杰克逊先生家有一张长期账单，在史密斯先生家有一张，在霍布森家有一张，我们相处得比以前更加舒适：尽管我母亲断言我们最好保持在界限内，因为我们的财富前景岌岌可危，毕竟;如果我父亲把一切都托付给她管理，他就永远不会感到自己受到限制：但他，这一次，是不可救药的。

What happy hours Mary and I have passed while sitting at our work by the fire, or wandering on the heath-clad hills, or idling under the weeping birch (the only considerable tree in the garden), talking of future happiness to ourselves and our parents, of what we would do, and see, and possess; with no firmer foundation for our goodly superstructure than the riches that were expected to flow in upon us from the success of the worthy merchant’s speculations. Our father was nearly as bad as ourselves; only that he affected not to be so much in earnest: expressing his bright hopes and sanguine expectations in jests and playful sallies, that always struck me as being exceedingly witty and pleasant. Our mother laughed with delight to see him so hopeful and happy: but still she feared he was setting his heart too much upon the matter; and once I heard her whisper as she left the room, ‘God grant he be not disappointed! I know not how he would bear it.’
玛丽和我坐在火边工作，或者在长满石南的山上漫步，或者在垂枝的桦树（花园里唯一参天的树）下闲逛，谈论我们自己和我们的未来幸福，度过了多么快乐的时光。父母，我们会做什么、看到什么、拥有什么；对于我们良好的上层建筑来说，没有什么比可敬的商人投机的成功所带来的财富更坚实的基础了。我们的父亲几乎和我们一样坏。只是他假装不那么认真：用笑话和俏皮的俏皮话表达他光明的希望和乐观的期望，这总是让我觉得非常机智和愉快。我们的母亲看到他如此充满希望和幸福，高兴地笑了：但她仍然担心他在这件事上太投入了；有一次我听到她离开房间时低声说：“上帝保佑他不要失望！”我不知道他会如何忍受。

Disappointed he was; and bitterly, too. It came like a thunderclap on us all, that the vessel which contained our fortune had been wrecked, and gone to the bottom with all its stores, together with several of the crew, and the unfortunate merchant himself. I was grieved for him; I was grieved for the overthrow of all our air-built castles: but, with the elasticity of youth, I soon recovered the shook.
他很失望；也很痛苦。载着我们财富的船只失事了，船上的所有物资、几名船员以及不幸的商人本人都沉入了海底，这对我们所有人来说就像是一声惊雷。我为他感到悲伤；我为我们所有的空中城堡被推翻而感到悲痛：但是，凭借青春的弹性，我很快就恢复了震惊。

Though riches had charms, poverty had no terrors for an inexperienced girl like me. Indeed, to say the truth, there was something exhilarating in the idea of being driven to straits, and thrown upon our own resources. I only wished papa, mamma, and Mary were all of the same mind as myself; and then, instead of lamenting past calamities we might all cheerfully set to work to remedy them; and the greater the difficulties, the harder our present privations, the greater should be our cheerfulness to endure the latter, and our vigour to contend against the former.
虽然财富有魅力，但对于我这样一个没有经验的女孩来说，贫穷并不可怕。事实上，说实话，被逼到绝境、靠自己的资源来支撑的想法确实令人兴奋。我只希望爸爸、妈妈和玛丽都和我有同样的想法；然后，我们不必哀叹过去的灾难，而是可以兴高采烈地努力去补救；困难越大，我们当前的困难就越严重，我们就应该更加高兴地忍受后者，我们就越有动力去对抗前者。

Mary did not lament, but she brooded continually over the misfortune, and sank into a state of dejection from which no effort of mine could rouse her. I could not possibly bring her to regard the matter on its bright side as I did: and indeed I was so fearful of being charged with childish frivolity, or stupid insensibility, that I carefully kept most of my bright ideas and cheering notions to myself; well knowing they could not be appreciated.
玛丽没有哀悼，但她不断地沉思着这起不幸，陷入了一种沮丧的状态，我的努力也无法唤醒她。我不可能让她像我一样从积极的一面来看待这件事：事实上，我非常害怕被指责为幼稚的轻浮或愚蠢的麻木不仁，所以我小心翼翼地把大部分聪明的想法和令人振奋的想法留给自己；因为我害怕她会被指责为幼稚的轻浮或愚蠢的麻木不仁，所以我小心翼翼地把大部分聪明的想法和令人振奋的想法留给了自己。深知他们无法得到赏识。

My mother thought only of consoling my father, and paying our debts and retrenching our expenditure by every available means; but my father was completely overwhelmed by the calamity: health, strength, and spirits sank beneath the blow, and he never wholly recovered them. In vain my mother strove to cheer him, by appealing to his piety, to his courage, to his affection for herself and us. That very affection was his greatest torment: it was for our sakes he had so ardently longed to increase his fortune—it was our interest that had lent such brightness to his hopes, and that imparted such bitterness to his present distress. He now tormented himself with remorse at having neglected my mother’s advice; which would at least have saved him from the additional burden of debt—he vainly reproached himself for having brought her from the dignity, the ease, the luxury of her former station to toil with him through the cares and toils of poverty. It was gall and wormwood to his soul to see that splendid, highlyaccomplished woman, once so courted and admired, transformed into an active managing housewife, with hands and head continually occupied with household labours and household economy. The very willingness with which she performed these duties, the cheerfulness with which she bore her reverses, and the kindness which withheld her from imputing the smallest blame to him, were all perverted by this ingenious self-tormentor into further aggravations of his sufferings. And thus the mind preyed upon the body, and disordered the system of the nerves, and they in turn increased the troubles of the mind, till by action and reaction his health was seriously impaired; and not one of us could convince him that the aspect of our affairs was not half so gloomy, so utterly hopeless, as his morbid imagination represented it to be.
母亲只想着安慰父亲，想方设法还清债务，节约开支；但父亲完全被这场灾难压垮了：健康、体力和精神都在打击下沉沦，再也没有完全恢复过来。我母亲徒劳地试图通过诉诸他的虔诚、他的勇气以及他对自己和我们的爱来让他高兴起来。正是这种感情对他来说是最大的折磨：正是为了我们，他才如此热切地渴望增加他的财富——正是我们的利益让他的希望如此光明，也使他目前的痛苦如此痛苦。现在，他为自己忽视了母亲的建议而懊悔不已。这至少可以让他免于额外的债务负担——他徒劳地责备自己，因为他把她从以前的尊严、安逸和奢侈中带出来，与他一起经历贫穷的忧虑和辛劳。看到那个曾经如此受人追捧和钦佩的出色、多才多艺的女人，变成了一个积极管理的家庭主妇，双手和头脑不断地忙于家务劳动和家庭经济，这对他的灵魂来说是一种痛苦。她在履行这些职责时表现出的自愿态度，在遭受挫折时表现出的乐观态度，以及不将哪怕是最小的过失归咎于他的仁慈，都被这个巧妙的自我折磨者所扭曲，进一步加剧了他的痛苦。 就这样，心灵掠夺了身体，扰乱了神经系统，反过来又增加了心灵的烦恼，直到通过行动和反应，他的健康受到严重损害；我们中没有人能让他相信我们的事情并不像他病态的想象所描绘的那么悲观、完全绝望。

The useful pony phaeton was sold, together with the stout, well-fed pony—the old favourite that we had fully determined should end its days in peace, and never pass from our hands; the little coachhouse and stable were let; the servant boy, and the more efficient (being the more expensive) of the two maid-servants, were dismissed. Our clothes were mended, turned, and darned to the utmost verge of decency; our food, always plain, was now simplified to an unprecedented degree—except my father’s favourite dishes; our coals and candles were painfully economized—the pair of candles reduced to one, and that most sparingly used; the coals carefully husbanded in the half-empty grate: especially when my father was out on his parish duties, or confined to bed through illness—then we sat with our feet on the fender, scraping the perishing embers together from time to time, and occasionally adding a slight scattering of the dust and fragments of coal, just to keep them alive. As for our carpets, they in time were worn threadbare, and patched and darned even to a greater extent than our garments. To save the expense of a gardener, Mary and I undertook to keep the garden in order; and all the cooking and household work that could not easily be managed by one servantgirl, was done by my mother and sister, with a little occasional help from me: only a little, because, though a woman in my own estimation, I was still a child in theirs; and my mother, like most active, managing women, was not gifted with very active daughters: for this reason—that being so clever and diligent herself, she was never tempted to trust her affairs to a deputy, but, on the contrary, was willing to act and think for others as well as for number one; and whatever was the business in hand, she was apt to think that no one could do it so well as herself: so that whenever I offered to assist her, I received such an answer as—‘No, love, you cannot indeed—there’s nothing here you can do. Go and help your sister, or get her to take a walk with you—tell her she must not sit so much, and stay so constantly in the house as she does— she may well look thin and dejected.’
那辆有用的小马辉腾被卖掉了，连同那匹粗壮、喂养良好的小马一起被卖掉了——我们完全决定这匹老宠儿应该平静地结束它的日子，永远不会从我们手中消失；小马车房和马厩都出租了。那个男仆和两个女仆中效率更高（也更贵）的一个被解雇了。我们的衣服都经过修补、翻转和补补，达到了最得体的程度。我们一向朴素的食物现在被简化到了前所未有的程度——除了我父亲最喜欢的菜肴；我们的煤炭和蜡烛都被节省得很厉害——一对蜡烛减少到一根，而且很少使用。半空的炉排里的煤炭被小心翼翼地整理起来：尤其是当我父亲外出执行教区职责，或因病卧床不起时——然后我们坐在挡泥板上，不时地把即将腐烂的余烬刮到一起，偶尔会添加少量的灰尘和煤炭碎片，只是为了让它们保持活力。至于我们的地毯，随着时间的推移，它们已经破旧不堪，修补和补补的程度甚至比我们的衣服还要严重。 为了节省园丁的开支，玛丽和我致力于保持花园的整洁。所有做饭和家务活，一个女仆不容易做的事，都是由我的母亲和姐姐做的，我偶尔也帮忙一点：只是一点点，因为，尽管我自己认为我是一个女人，但我仍然是一个女人。他们的孩子；我的母亲，像大多数积极主动的管理女性一样，没有生出非常积极主动的女儿：由于这个原因——她自己如此聪明和勤奋，她从来没有想过把自己的事务托付给副手，相反，她愿意为他人以及第一名而行动和思考；无论手头的事情是什么，她都容易认为没有人能比她做得更好：因此，每当我主动提出帮助她时，我都会收到这样的答案：“不，亲爱的，你确实不能——有你在这里无能为力。去帮助你的妹妹，或者让她和你一起去散步——告诉她她不能坐得太久，不能像她那样经常呆在房子里——她很可能看起来又瘦又沮丧。’

‘Mary, mamma says I’m to help you; or get you to take a walk with me; she says you may well look thin and dejected, if you sit so constantly in the house.’
“玛丽，妈妈说我要帮助你；或者让你和我一起散步；她说，如果你总是坐在屋子里，你可能会显得又瘦又沮丧。

‘Help me you cannot, Agnes; and I cannot go out with YOU—I have far too much to do.’
‘艾格尼丝，你帮不了我；我不能和你一起出去——我有太多事情要做。

‘Then let me help you.’
“那我来帮你吧。”

‘You cannot, indeed, dear child. Go and practise your music, or play with the kitten.’
“你确实不能，亲爱的孩子。去练习你的音乐，或者和小猫一起玩。

There was always plenty of sewing on hand; but I had not been taught to cut out a single garment, and except plain hemming and seaming, there was little I could do, even in that line; for they both asserted that it was far easier to do the work themselves than to prepare it for me: and besides, they liked better to see me prosecuting my studies, or amusing myself—it was time enough for me to sit bending over my work, like a grave matron, when my favourite little pussy was become a steady old cat. Under such circumstances, although I was not many degrees more useful than the kitten, my idleness was not entirely without excuse.
手边总是有很多缝纫活儿；但我没有被教过剪裁一件衣服，除了简单的包边和接缝之外，即使在这一行，我也无能为力。因为他们都声称，自己做这项工作比为我准备工作要容易得多：此外，他们更喜欢看到我继续学习，或者自娱自乐——我有足够的时间坐下来埋头工作，就像一个坟墓的主妇，当我最喜欢的小猫变成一只稳定的老猫时。在这种情况下，虽然我比小猫有用不了多少，但我的闲散也不是完全没有理由的。

Through all our troubles, I never but once heard my mother complain of our want of money. As summer was coming on she observed to Mary and me, ‘What a desirable thing it would be for your papa to spend a few weeks at a watering-place. I am convinced the sea-air and the change of scene would be of incalculable service to him. But then, you see, there’s no money,’ she added, with a sigh. We both wished exceedingly that the thing might be done, and lamented greatly that it could not. ‘Well, well!’ said she, ‘it’s no use complaining. Possibly something might be done to further the project after all. Mary, you are a beautiful drawer. What do you say to doing a few more pictures in your best style, and getting them framed, with the water-coloured drawings you have already done, and trying to dispose of them to some liberal picture-dealer, who has the sense to discern their merits?’
在我们经历了这么多的麻烦之后，我从来没有听到妈妈抱怨过我们缺钱。夏天即将来临，她对玛丽和我说：“如果你们的爸爸能在饮水处度过几个星期，那该是多么令人向往的事情啊。”我相信大海的空气和场景的变化会给他带来不可估量的帮助。但你看，没有钱，”她叹了口气补充道。我们都非常希望这件事能够完成，但又为它无法完成而深感遗憾。 “好吧，好吧！”她说，“抱怨是没有用的。”毕竟，也许可以采取一些措施来进一步推进该项目。玛丽，你是一个漂亮的抽屉。你觉得以你最好的风格再画几幅画，把它们和你已经画好的水彩画装裱起来，然后试图把它们卖给一些有辨别能力的自由派画商吗？他们的优点？

‘Mamma, I should be delighted if you think they COULD be sold; and for anything worth while.’
“妈妈，如果你认为它们可以卖掉，我会很高兴；以及任何值得的事情。

‘It’s worth while trying, however, my dear: do you procure the drawings, and I’ll endeavour to find a purchaser.’
“不过，亲爱的，这值得一试：你能买到图纸吗？我会尽力找到买家。”

‘I wish I could do something,’ said I.
“我希望我能做点什么，”我说。

‘You, Agnes! well, who knows? You draw pretty well, too: if you choose some simple piece for your subject, I daresay you will be able to produce something we shall all be proud to exhibit.’
‘你，艾格尼丝！好吧，谁知道呢？你画得也很好：如果你为你的主题选择一些简单的作品，我敢说你将能够创作出一些我们都会自豪地展示的东西。

‘But I have another scheme in my head, mamma, and have had long, only I did not like to mention it.’
“但是我脑子里有另一个计划，妈妈，而且已经想了很久了，只是我不想提起它。”

‘Indeed! pray tell us what it is.’
'的确！请告诉我们那是什么。

‘I should like to be a governess.’
“我想成为一名家庭教师。”

My mother uttered an exclamation of surprise, and laughed. My sister dropped her work in astonishment, exclaiming, ‘YOU a governess, Agnes! What can you be dreaming of?’
妈妈惊讶地叫了一声，笑了起来。我姐姐惊讶地放下手中的工作，惊呼道：“艾格尼丝，你是个家庭教师！”你会梦见什么？

‘Well! I don’t see anything so VERY extraordinary in it. I do not pretend to be able to instruct great girls; but surely I could teach little ones: and I should like it so much: I am so fond of children. Do let me, mamma!’
'出色地！我看不出有什么特别之处。我并不假装能够指导优秀的女孩；但我当然可以教小孩子：我非常喜欢它：我非常喜欢孩子。让我来吧，妈妈！

‘But, my love, you have not learned to take care of YOURSELF yet: and young children require more judgment and experience to manage than elder ones.’
“但是，亲爱的，你还没有学会照顾自己：年幼的孩子比年长的孩子需要更多的判断力和经验来管理。”

‘But, mamma, I am above eighteen, and quite able to take care of myself, and others too. You do not know half the wisdom and prudence I possess, because I have never been tried.’
“但是，妈妈，我已经十八岁了，完全能够照顾自己，也照顾别人。你不知道我所拥有的一半智慧和谨慎，因为我从未受过考验。

‘Only think,’ said Mary, ‘what would you do in a house full of strangers, without me or mamma to speak and act for you—with a parcel of children, besides yourself, to attend to; and no one to look to for advice? You would not even know what clothes to put on.’
“想一想，”玛丽说，“在一个充满陌生人的房子里，没有我或妈妈为你说话和行动——除了你自己之外，还有一群孩子需要照顾；你会做什么？”却没有人可以寻求建议？你甚至不知道该穿什么衣服。

‘You think, because I always do as you bid me, I have no judgment of my own: but only try me—that is all I ask—and you shall see what I can do.’
“你想，因为我总是按照你的吩咐去做，所以我没有自己的判断力：但只要尝试一下——这就是我所要求的——然后你就会看到我能做什么。”

At that moment my father entered and the subject of our discussion was explained to him.
就在这时，我父亲进来了，我们向他解释了我们讨论的主题。

‘What, my little Agnes a governess!’ cried he, and, in spite of his dejection, he laughed at the idea.
“什么，我的小艾格尼丝是一名家庭女教师！”他喊道，尽管他很沮丧，但他对这个想法大笑起来。

‘Yes, papa, don’t YOU say anything against it: I should like it so much; and I am sure I could manage delightfully.’
“是的，爸爸，你不要反对它：我非常喜欢它；我相信我可以愉快地做到这一点。

‘But, my darling, we could not spare you.’ And a tear glistened in his eye as he added—‘No, no! afflicted as we are, surely we are not brought to that pass yet.’
“但是，亲爱的，我们不能饶恕你。”他补充道，眼里闪烁着泪水——“不，不！尽管我们现在很痛苦，但我们肯定还没有走到那一步。

‘Oh, no!’ said my mother. ‘There is no necessity whatever for such a step; it is merely a whim of her own. So you must hold your tongue, you naughty girl; for, though you are so ready to leave us, you know very well we cannot part with YOU.’
“哦，不！”我妈妈说。 “没有必要采取这样的步骤；这只是她自己的一时兴起。所以你必须闭嘴，你这个顽皮的女孩；因为，尽管你已经准备好离开我们，但你很清楚我们无法与你分开。

I was silenced for that day, and for many succeeding ones; but still I did not wholly relinquish my darling scheme. Mary got her drawing materials, and steadily set to work. I got mine too; but while I drew, I thought of other things. How delightful it would be to be a governess! To go out into the world; to enter upon a new life; to act for myself; to exercise my unused faculties; to try my unknown powers; to earn my own maintenance, and something to comfort and help my father, mother, and sister, besides exonerating them from the provision of my food and clothing; to show papa what his little Agnes could do; to convince mamma and Mary that I was not quite the helpless, thoughtless being they supposed. And then, how charming to be entrusted with the care and education of children! Whatever others said, I felt I was fully competent to the task: the clear remembrance of my own thoughts in early childhood would be a surer guide than the instructions of the most mature adviser. I had but to turn from my little pupils to myself at their age, and I should know, at once, how to win their confidence and affections: how to waken the contrition of the erring; how to embolden the timid and console the afflicted; how to make Virtue practicable, Instruction desirable, and Religion lovely and comprehensible.
那一天，以及随后的许多日子里，我都保持沉默。但我仍然没有完全放弃我亲爱的计划。玛丽拿到了绘画材料，并稳步开始工作。我也得到了我的；但当我画画的时候，我想到了其他事情。成为一名家庭教师该是多么幸福啊！走出去，走向世界；进入新的生活；为自己行事；锻炼我未使用的才能；尝试我未知的力量；赚取自己的生活费，以及安慰和帮助我的父亲、母亲和妹妹的东西，此外还免除他们为我提供食物和衣服的责任；向爸爸展示他的小艾格尼丝能做什么；让妈妈和玛丽相信我并不像他们想象的那样无助、轻率。那时，受托照顾和教育孩子是多么迷人啊！不管其他人怎么说，我觉得我完全有能力胜任这项任务：清晰地记住我自己在童年时期的想法将比最成熟的顾问的指导更可靠。我只要把目光从我的小学生转向他们这个年纪的我自己，我就会立刻知道如何赢得他们的信任和喜爱：如何唤醒犯错的人的悔悟；如何让犯错的人悔悟；如何让他们知道如何做；如何让犯错的人悔悟；如何让犯错的人悔悟；如何让他们知道如何做。如何给胆小的人壮胆，如何安慰受苦的人？如何使美德切实可行、教导令人向往、宗教可爱易懂。

Delightful task! To teach the young idea how to shoot!
令人愉快的任务！教年轻人如何射击！

To train the tender plants, and watch their buds unfolding day by day!
训练娇嫩的植物，看着它们的花蕾一天天绽放！

Influenced by so many inducements, I determined still to persevere; though the fear of displeasing my mother, or distressing my father’s feelings, prevented me from resuming the subject for several days. At length, again, I mentioned it to my mother in private; and, with some difficulty, got her to promise to assist me with her endeavours. My father’s reluctant consent was next obtained, and then, though Mary still sighed her disapproval, my dear, kind mother began to look out for a situation for me. She wrote to my father’s relations, and consulted the newspaper advertisements—her own relations she had long dropped all communication with: a formal interchange of occasional letters was all she had ever had since her marriage, and she would not at any time have applied to them in a case of this nature. But so long and so entire had been my parents’ seclusion from the world, that many weeks elapsed before a suitable situation could be procured. At last, to my great joy, it was decreed that I should take charge of the young family of a certain Mrs. Bloomfield; whom my kind, prim aunt Grey had known in her youth, and asserted to be a very nice woman. Her husband was a retired tradesman, who had realized a very comfortable fortune; but could not be prevailed upon to give a greater salary than twenty-five pounds to the instructress of his children. I, however, was glad to accept this, rather than refuse the situation—which my parents were inclined to think the better plan.
受到如此多的利诱，我还是决定坚持下去；尽管担心让母亲不高兴，或者让父亲伤心，我好几天都没有再谈这个话题。最后，我再次私下向母亲提到了这件事。并且，费了一番周折才让她答应帮助我完成她的工作。接下来，我父亲勉强同意了，尽管玛丽仍然叹息着不同意，但我亲爱的、善良的母亲开始为我寻找机会。她写信给我父亲的亲戚，并查阅了报纸上的广告——她自己的亲戚早已与她断绝了所有的联系：自从结婚以来，她所拥有的只是偶尔的正式信件往来，而且她在任何时候都不会申请他们在这种性质的情况下。但我父母与世隔绝的时间太长、太久，几周过去了才找到合适的处境。最后，令我非常高兴的是，政府决定由我负责照顾布卢姆菲尔德夫人的年轻家庭。我善良、拘谨的格雷阿姨年轻时就认识她，并声称她是一个非常好的女人。她的丈夫是一位退休的商人，拥有非常丰厚的财富。但无法说服他给孩子们的女老师超过二十五英镑的薪水。然而，我很高兴接受这一点，而不是拒绝这种情况——我的父母倾向于认为这是更好的计划。

But some weeks more were yet to be devoted to preparation. How long, how tedious those weeks appeared to me! Yet they were happy ones in the main—full of bright hopes and ardent expectations. With what peculiar pleasure I assisted at the making of my new clothes, and, subsequently, the packing of my trunks! But there was a feeling of bitterness mingling with the latter occupation too; and when it was done—when all was ready for my departure on the morrow, and the last night at home approached—a sudden anguish seemed to swell my heart. My dear friends looked so sad, and spoke so very kindly, that I could scarcely keep my eyes from overflowing: but I still affected to be gay. I had taken my last ramble with Mary on the moors, my last walk in the garden, and round the house; I had fed, with her, our pet pigeons for the last time—the pretty creatures that we had tamed to peck their food from our hands: I had given a farewell stroke to all their silky backs as they crowded in my lap. I had tenderly kissed my own peculiar favourites, the pair of snow-white fantails; I had played my last tune on the old familiar piano, and sung my last song to papa: not the last, I hoped, but the last for what appeared to me a very long time. And, perhaps, when I did these things again it would be with different feelings: circumstances might be changed, and this house might never be my settled home again. My dear little friend, the kitten, would certainly be changed: she was already growing a fine cat; and when I returned, even for a hasty visit at Christmas, would, most likely, have forgotten both her playmate and her merry pranks. I had romped with her for the last time; and when I stroked her soft bright fur, while she lay purring herself to sleep in my lap, it was with a feeling of sadness I could not easily disguise. Then at bed-time, when I retired with Mary to our quiet little chamber, where already my drawers were cleared out and my share of the bookcase was empty—and where, hereafter, she would have to sleep alone, in dreary solitude, as she expressed it—my heart sank more than ever: I felt as if I had been selfish and wrong to persist in leaving her; and when I knelt once more beside our little bed, I prayed for a blessing on her and on my parents more fervently than ever I had done before. To conceal my emotion, I buried my face in my hands, and they were presently bathed in tears. I perceived, on rising, that she had been crying too: but neither of us spoke; and in silence we betook ourselves to our repose, creeping more closely together from the consciousness that we were to part so soon.
但还有几周的时间需要投入准备。那几周对我来说是多么漫长、多么乏味啊！但他们总体上是幸福的——充满光明的希望和热切的期望。我非常高兴地帮忙制作新衣服，随后又收拾行李箱！但后一种职业也夹杂着一种苦涩的感觉。当这一切完成后——当一切都准备好迎接明天的出发，家中的最后一晚即将到来时——一种突然的痛苦似乎涌上我的心。我亲爱的朋友们看起来那么悲伤，说话那么友善，我几乎无法控制自己的眼睛溢出：但我仍然假装是同性恋。我最后一次和玛丽一起在荒原上散步，最后一次在花园里和房子周围散步。我最后一次和她一起喂养了我们的宠物鸽子——我们驯服了这些漂亮的动物，它们会从我们手中啄食：当它们挤在我的腿上时，我向它们柔滑的背部做了一次告别。我温柔地亲吻了我自己最喜欢的东西，那对雪白的扇形尾巴；我在那架熟悉的旧钢琴上弹奏了我的最后一首曲子，并向爸爸唱了我的最后一首歌：我希望这不是最后一首，但在我看来已经很长时间了。而且，也许，当我再次做这些事情时，会有不同的感受：环境可能会改变，这所房子可能不再是我安定的家。我亲爱的小朋友，小猫，肯定会改变：她已经长成一只漂亮的猫了；她已经长大了。当我回来时，即使是在圣诞节匆忙拜访，也很可能忘记了她的玩伴和她的快乐恶作剧。 这是我最后一次和她嬉戏。当我抚摸她柔软明亮的皮毛时，她躺在我的腿上咕噜咕噜地睡着了，我的心里充满了一种难以掩饰的悲伤。然后到了睡觉时间，当我和玛丽一起回到我们安静的小房间时，我的抽屉已经被清理干净，我的那份书柜也空了——从此以后，她将不得不独自一人睡觉，在沉闷的孤独中，就像她这样表达——我的心比以往任何时候都更沉了：我觉得自己坚持离开她是自私和错误的；当我再次跪在我们的小床边时，我比以前更热切地祈祷她和我的父母得到祝福。为了掩饰自己的情绪，我把脸埋在双手里，不一会儿，它们就已经泪流满面了。我起身时发现她也哭了，但我们谁也没说话。我们默默地进入休息状态，意识到我们很快就要分开，所以我们的距离更加紧密。

But the morning brought a renewal of hope and spirits. I was to depart early; that the conveyance which took me (a gig, hired from Mr. Smith, the draper, grocer, and tea-dealer of the village) might return the same day. I rose, washed, dressed, swallowed a hasty breakfast, received the fond embraces of my father, mother, and sister, kissed the cat—to the great scandal of Sally, the maid— shook hands with her, mounted the gig, drew my veil over my face, and then, but not till then, burst into a flood of tears. The gig rolled on; I looked back; my dear mother and sister were still standing at the door, looking after me, and waving their adieux. I returned their salute, and prayed God to bless them from my heart: we descended the hill, and I could see them no more.
但早晨带来了新的希望和精神。我要早点出发；载我的交通工具（一辆临时工，从史密斯先生那里雇来的，史密斯先生是村里的布料商、杂货商和茶商）可能会在当天返回。我起身，洗漱，穿好衣服，匆匆吃了一顿早餐，接受了父亲、母亲和妹妹的热烈拥抱，亲吻了那只猫——这让女仆莎莉大为不快——和她握手，登上马车，拉上我的船。面纱遮住了我的脸，然后，但直到那时，我才泪流满面。演出继续进行。我回头一看；我亲爱的妈妈和姐姐还站在门口，看着我，挥手告别。我回礼，并从心里祈求上帝保佑他们：我们下了山，我就再也看不到他们了。

‘It’s a coldish mornin’ for you, Miss Agnes,’ observed Smith; ‘and a darksome ‘un too; but we’s happen get to yon spot afore there come much rain to signify.’
“对你来说，这是一个寒冷的早晨，艾格尼丝小姐，”史密斯评论道。 ‘还有一个阴暗的‘un’；但我们碰巧在大雨来临之前就到达了那里。

‘Yes, I hope so,’ replied I, as calmly as I could.
“是的，我希望如此。”我尽可能平静地回答。

‘It’s comed a good sup last night too.’
“昨晚的晚餐也很不错。”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘But this cold wind will happen keep it off.’
“但是冷风会吹过来，挡住它。”

‘Perhaps it will.’
“也许会的。”

Here ended our colloquy. We crossed the valley, and began to ascend the opposite hill. As we were toiling up, I looked back again; there was the village spire, and the old grey parsonage beyond it, basking in a slanting beam of sunshine—it was but a sickly ray, but the village and surrounding hills were all in sombre shade, and I hailed the wandering beam as a propitious omen to my home. With clasped hands I fervently implored a blessing on its inhabitants, and hastily turned away; for I saw the sunshine was departing; and I carefully avoided another glance, lest I should see it in gloomy shadow, like the rest of the landscape.
我们的谈话到此结束。我们穿过山谷，开始爬对面的山。当我们辛苦劳作时，我再次回头看去；村子的尖顶，远处那座古老的灰色牧师住宅，沐浴在斜射的阳光下——这只是一道病态的光线，但村庄和周围的山丘都笼罩在阴暗的阴影中，我把那飘荡的光束称为吉祥的光芒。我家的预兆。我紧握双手，热切地祈求赐福给这里的居民，然后匆匆转身离开。因为我看到阳光正在离去；我小心翼翼地避免再看一眼，以免我在阴暗的阴影中看到它，就像其他风景一样。

CHAPTER II—FIRST LESSONS IN THE ART OF INSTRUCTION
第二章——教学艺术的第一课

As we drove along, my spirits revived again, and I turned, with pleasure, to the contemplation of the new life upon which I was entering. But though it was not far past the middle of September, the heavy clouds and strong north-easterly wind combined to render the day extremely cold and dreary; and the journey seemed a very long one, for, as Smith observed, the roads were ‘very heavy’; and certainly, his horse was very heavy too: it crawled up the hills, and crept down them, and only condescended to shake its sides in a trot where the road was at a dead level or a very gentle slope, which was rarely the case in those rugged regions; so that it was nearly one o’clock before we reached the place of our destination. Yet, after all, when we entered the lofty iron gateway, when we drove softly up the smooth, well-rolled carriage-road, with the green lawn on each side, studded with young trees, and approached the new but stately mansion of Wellwood, rising above its mushroom poplar-groves, my heart failed me, and I wished it were a mile or two farther off. For the first time in my life I must stand alone: there was no retreating now. I must enter that house, and introduce myself among its strange inhabitants. But how was it to be done? True, I was near nineteen; but, thanks to my retired life and the protecting care of my mother and sister, I well knew that many a girl of fifteen, or under, was gifted with a more womanly address, and greater ease and self-possession, than I was. Yet, if Mrs. Bloomfield were a kind, motherly woman, I might do very well, after all; and the children, of course, I should soon be at ease with them—and Mr. Bloomfield, I hoped, I should have but little to do with.
当我们继续前行时，我的精神再次苏醒，我愉快地开始思考我即将进入的新生活。然而，虽然刚过九月中旬不久，厚厚的云层和强劲的东北风却使天气变得异常寒冷和沉闷。旅程似乎很漫长，因为正如史密斯所说，道路“非常崎岖”。当然，他的马也很重：它爬上山坡，爬下山坡，只有在道路完全平坦或非常缓坡的情况下才屈尊摇晃身体两侧小跑，这种情况很少见。在那些崎岖不平的地区；就这样我们到达目的地已经快一点了。然而，毕竟，当我们进入高耸的铁门，当我们轻轻地驶上平坦、起伏的马路，两边是绿油油的草坪，点缀着小树，接近韦尔伍德那座崭新而庄严的宅邸时升到蘑菇杨树林上方时，我的心都碎了，我希望它离得再远一两英里就好了。我有生以来第一次必须独自站立：现在已经没有退路了。我必须进入那所房子，向其中陌生的居民介绍自己。但该怎么做呢？确实，我已经快十九岁了。但是，由于我的退休生活以及母亲和姐姐的保护，我清楚地知道，许多十五岁或以下的女孩比我更有女人味，更从容和沉着。然而，如果布卢姆菲尔德夫人是一位善良、慈母般的女人，我也许会做得很好。当然，我很快就会对孩子们感到放心，而我希望与布卢姆菲尔德先生没什么关系。

‘Be calm, be calm, whatever happens,’ I said within myself; and truly I kept this resolution so well, and was so fully occupied in steadying my nerves and stifling the rebellious flutter of my heart, that when I was admitted into the hall and ushered into the presence of Mrs. Bloomfield, I almost forgot to answer her polite salutation; and it afterwards struck me, that the little I did say was spoken in the tone of one half-dead or half-asleep. The lady, too, was somewhat chilly in her manner, as I discovered when I had time to reflect. She was a tall, spare, stately woman, with thick black hair, cold grey eyes, and extremely sallow complexion.
“冷静，冷静，无论发生什么，”我对自己说。事实上，我很好地遵守了这个决心，全神贯注于稳定我的神经，抑制我内心的叛逆冲动，以至于当我被允许进入大厅并被带到布卢姆菲尔德夫人面前时，我几乎忘记了回答她礼貌的问候；后来我突然意识到，我所说的那一小段话是用一种半死不活或半睡半醒的语气说的。当我有时间思考时，我发现这位女士的态度也有些冷淡。她是一位身材高挑、清瘦、端庄的女人，一头浓密的黑发，一双冰冷的灰色眼睛，脸色极其蜡黄。

With due politeness, however, she showed me my bedroom, and left me there to take a little refreshment. I was somewhat dismayed at my appearance on looking in the glass: the cold wind had swelled and reddened my hands, uncurled and entangled my hair, and dyed my face of a pale purple; add to this my collar was horridly crumpled, my frock splashed with mud, my feet clad in stout new boots, and as the trunks were not brought up, there was no remedy; so having smoothed my hair as well as I could, and repeatedly twitched my obdurate collar, I proceeded to clomp down the two flights of stairs, philosophizing as I went; and with some difficulty found my way into the room where Mrs. Bloomfield awaited me.
然而，她很有礼貌地带我参观了我的卧室，然后让我在那里吃点东西。我看着镜子里的自己，有些沮丧：寒风吹得我的手肿红了，头发散乱了，纠缠着，脸也染成了淡紫色；除此之外，我的领子皱得厉害，衣服上溅满了泥，脚上穿着坚固的新靴子，由于箱子没有被抬起来，所以没有补救办法；于是，我尽我所能地抚平了头发，并不断地抽动着顽固的衣领，然后开始沉重地走下两层楼梯，边走边思考。我费了好大劲才走进布卢姆菲尔德太太正在等我的房间。

She led me into the dining-room, where the family luncheon had been laid out. Some beefsteaks and half-cold potatoes were set before me; and while I dined upon these, she sat opposite, watching me (as I thought) and endeavouring to sustain something like a conversation—consisting chiefly of a succession of commonplace remarks, expressed with frigid formality: but this might be more my fault than hers, for I really could NOT converse. In fact, my attention was almost wholly absorbed in my dinner: not from ravenous appetite, but from distress at the toughness of the beefsteaks, and the numbness of my hands, almost palsied by their five-hours’ exposure to the bitter wind. I would gladly have eaten the potatoes and let the meat alone, but having got a large piece of the latter on to my plate, I could not be so impolite as to leave it; so, after many awkward and unsuccessful attempts to cut it with the knife, or tear it with the fork, or pull it asunder between them, sensible that the awful lady was a spectator to the whole transaction, I at last desperately grasped the knife and fork in my fists, like a child of two years old, and fell to work with all the little strength I possessed. But this needed some apologywith a feeble attempt at a laugh, I said, ‘My hands are so benumbed with the cold that I can scarcely handle my knife and fork.’
她领我走进餐厅，那里已经摆好了家庭午餐。一些牛排和半冷的土豆摆在我面前；当我吃这些的时候，她坐在对面，看着我（正如我所想的那样），并努力维持某种类似谈话的东西——主要包括一系列陈词滥调，以冷酷的形式表达：但这可能更多是我的错，而不是她的错，因为我真的无法交谈。事实上，我的注意力几乎完全集中在我的晚餐上：不是因为贪婪的胃口，而是因为牛排的坚韧而苦恼，以及我的双手因在寒风中暴露了五个小时而几乎麻木。我本来很乐意吃掉土豆，不吃肉，但是当我的盘子里盛了一大块肉时，我不能无礼地把它留下；因此，在多次笨拙且不成功的尝试后，我试图用刀子切它，或用叉子撕开它，或将其撕成两半，意识到那个可怕的女士是整个交易的旁观者，我终于绝望地抓住了刀子，我像一个两岁的孩子一样握紧拳头，用我仅有的一点力气开始干活。但这需要一些道歉，我微弱地试图笑一下，说：“我的手冻得麻木了，几乎拿不动我的刀叉。”

‘I daresay you would find it cold,’ replied she with a cool, immutable gravity that did not serve to reassure me.
“我敢说你会觉得很冷，”她回答说，语气冷静、一成不变，但这并没有让我放心。

When the ceremony was concluded, she led me into the sitting-room again, where she rang and sent for the children.
仪式结束后，她又领我走进客厅，按铃叫孩子们来。

‘You will find them not very far advanced in their attainments,’ said she, ‘for I have had so little time to attend to their education myself, and we have thought them too young for a governess till now; but I think they are clever children, and very apt to learn, especially the little boy; he is, I think, the flower of the flock—a generous, noble-spirited boy, one to be led, but not driven, and remarkable for always speaking the truth. He seems to scorn deception’ (this was good news). ‘His sister Mary Ann will require watching,’ continued she, ‘but she is a very good girl upon the whole; though I wish her to be kept out of the nursery as much as possible, as she is now almost six years old, and might acquire bad habits from the nurses. I have ordered her crib to be placed in your room, and if you will be so kind as to overlook her washing and dressing, and take charge of her clothes, she need have nothing further to do with the nursery maid.’
“你会发现他们的成就并不高，”她说，“因为我自己很少有时间去教育他们，而且到目前为止我们还认为他们对于家庭教师来说太年轻了；但我认为他们都是聪明的孩子，非常好学，尤其是小男孩；我认为他是羊群中的佼佼者——一个慷慨、精神高尚的男孩，一个需要被领导但不被驱使的男孩，并且因总是说真话而引人注目。他似乎蔑视欺骗”（这是个好消息）。 “他的妹妹玛丽·安需要留意，”她继续说道，“但总的来说，她是一个非常好的女孩；不过我希望她尽可能远离托儿所，因为她现在快六岁了，可能会从护士那里养成坏习惯。我已经命人把她的婴儿床放在你的房间里，如果你能好心地照顾她的洗衣和穿衣，并负责她的衣服，她就不必再与保姆有任何瓜葛了。

I replied I was quite willing to do so; and at that moment my young pupils entered the apartment, with their two younger sisters. Master Tom Bloomfield was a well-grown boy of seven, with a somewhat wiry frame, flaxen hair, blue eyes, small turned-up nose, and fair complexion. Mary Ann was a tall girl too, somewhat dark like her mother, but with a round full face and a high colour in her cheeks. The second sister was Fanny, a very pretty little girl; Mrs. Bloomfield assured me she was a remarkably gentle child, and required encouragement: she had not learned anything yet; but in a few days, she would be four years old, and then she might take her first lesson in the alphabet, and be promoted to the schoolroom. The remaining one was Harriet, a little broad, fat, merry, playful thing of scarcely two, that I coveted more than all the rest—but with her I had nothing to do.
我回答说我很愿意这样做；就在那时，我的年轻学生带着他们的两个妹妹走进了公寓。汤姆·布卢姆菲尔德大师是一个七岁的大男孩，身材魁梧，亚麻色的头发，蓝色的眼睛，翘起的小鼻子，肤色白皙。玛丽·安也是个高个子女孩，肤色有点像她母亲，但脸圆圆的，脸颊颜色很高。二姐叫范妮，是个非常漂亮的小女孩。布卢姆菲尔德夫人向我保证，她是一个非常温柔的孩子，需要鼓励：她还没有学到任何东西；但再过几天，她就四岁了，然后她可能会上第一堂字母课，并被提升到教室。剩下的一个是哈丽特，她是一个身材魁梧、肥胖、快乐、顽皮的小家伙，还不到两岁，我比其他人都更渴望她——但我和她没有任何关系。

I talked to my little pupils as well as I could, and tried to render myself agreeable; but with little success I fear, for their mother’s presence kept me under an unpleasant restraint. They, however, were remarkably free from shyness. They seemed bold, lively children, and I hoped I should soon be on friendly terms with them—the little boy especially, of whom I had heard such a favourable character from his mamma. In Mary Ann there was a certain affected simper, and a craving for notice, that I was sorry to observe. But her brother claimed all my attention to himself; he stood bolt upright between me and the fire, with his hands behind his back, talking away like an orator, occasionally interrupting his discourse with a sharp reproof to his sisters when they made too much noise.
我尽我所能地和我的小学生们交谈，并试图让自己表现得和蔼可亲。但我担心收效甚微，因为他们母亲的存在让我处于一种不愉快的束缚之下。然而，他们却一点也不害羞。他们看起来都是勇敢、活泼的孩子，我希望我很快就能和他们建立友好的关系——尤其是那个小男孩，我从他妈妈那里听说过他的性格如此好。玛丽·安有一种做作的傻笑，渴望引起注意，对此我感到遗憾。但她哥哥却把我所有的注意力都集中在了他身上。他笔直地站在我和火之间，双手放在背后，像一位演说家一样滔滔不绝，当他的姐妹们发出太大的声音时，偶尔会用尖锐的责备打断他的讲话。

‘Oh, Tom, what a darling you are!’ exclaimed his mother. ‘Come and kiss dear mamma; and then won’t you show Miss Grey your schoolroom, and your nice new books?’
“哦，汤姆，你真是个可爱的人！”他的母亲惊呼道。 “过来亲吻亲爱的妈妈；然后你愿意带格雷小姐看看你的教室和你漂亮的新书吗？

‘I won’t kiss YOU, mamma; but I WILL show Miss Grey my schoolroom, and my new books.’
“我不会吻你，妈妈；但我会带格雷小姐参观我的教室和我的新书。

‘And MY schoolroom, and MY new books, Tom,’ said Mary Ann. ‘They’re mine too.’
“还有我的教室，还有我的新书，汤姆，”玛丽·安说。 “它们也是我的。”

‘They’re MINE,’ replied he decisively. ‘Come along, Miss Grey— I’ll escort you.’
“它们是我的，”他果断地回答道。 “走吧，格雷小姐——我护送你。”

When the room and books had been shown, with some bickerings between the brother and sister that I did my utmost to appease or mitigate, Mary Ann brought me her doll, and began to be very loquacious on the subject of its fine clothes, its bed, its chest of drawers, and other appurtenances; but Tom told her to hold her clamour, that Miss Grey might see his rocking-horse, which, with a most important bustle, he dragged forth from its corner into the middle of the room, loudly calling on me to attend to it. Then, ordering his sister to hold the reins, he mounted, and made me stand for ten minutes, watching how manfully he used his whip and spurs. Meantime, however, I admired Mary Ann’s pretty doll, and all its possessions; and then told Master Tom he was a capital rider, but I hoped he would not use his whip and spurs so much when he rode a real pony.
当房间和书籍都被展示出来后，兄妹之间发生了一些争吵，我尽力安抚或缓解，玛丽安给我带来了她的洋娃娃，并开始滔滔不绝地谈论它的漂亮衣服，它的床、抽屉柜及其他附属物；但汤姆告诉她不要吵闹，格雷小姐可能会看到他的摇木马，他用最重要的喧嚣将摇马从角落拖到房间中央，大声叫我去照顾它。然后，他命令他的妹妹握住缰绳，他骑上马，让我站了十分钟，看着他如何英勇地使用他的鞭子和马刺。然而，与此同时，我很欣赏玛丽·安的漂亮洋娃娃，以及它的所有财产。然后告诉汤姆大师他是一名顶级骑手，但我希望他在骑真正的小马时不要过多地使用他的鞭子和马刺。

‘Oh, yes, I will!’ said he, laying on with redoubled ardour. ‘I’ll cut into him like smoke! Eeh! my word! but he shall sweat for it.’
“哦，是的，我会的！”他说，更加热情地躺着。 ‘我会像烟雾一样切入他！呃！我的话！但他会为此付出汗水。

This was very shocking; but I hoped in time to be able to work a reformation.
这是非常令人震惊的。但我希望能够及时进行改革。

‘Now you must put on your bonnet and shawl,’ said the little hero, ‘and I’ll show you my garden.’
“现在你必须戴上帽子和披肩，”小英雄说，“我将带你参观我的花园。”

‘And MINE,’ said Mary Ann.
“还有我的，”玛丽·安说。

Tom lifted his fist with a menacing gesture; she uttered a loud, shrill scream, ran to the other side of me, and made a face at him.
汤姆举起拳头，做出威胁的手势。她发出一声尖锐的尖叫，跑到我的另一边，对他做了个鬼脸。

‘Surely, Tom, you would not strike your sister! I hope I shall NEVER see you do that.’
“汤姆，你当然不会打你妹妹！”我希望我永远不会看到你这样做。

‘You will sometimes: I’m obliged to do it now and then to keep her in order.’
“有时你会：我不得不时不时地这样做，让她保持秩序。”

‘But it is not your business to keep her in order, you know—that is for—‘
“但让她保持秩序不是你的事，你知道——那是为了——”

‘Well, now go and put on your bonnet.’
“好吧，现在去戴上你的帽子。”

‘I don’t know—it is so very cloudy and cold, it seems likely to rain;—and you know I have had a long drive.’
“我不知道——天气非常阴天，而且很冷，看起来可能会下雨；——你知道我开了很长的车。”

‘No matter—you MUST come; I shall allow of no excuses,’ replied the consequential little gentleman. And, as it was the first day of our acquaintance, I thought I might as well indulge him. It was too cold for Mary Ann to venture, so she stayed with her mamma, to the great relief of her brother, who liked to have me all to himself.
“没关系——你一定要来；我不会允许任何借口。”那位重要的小绅士回答道。而且，由于这是我们相识的第一天，我想我还是纵容一下他吧。天气太冷，玛丽·安无法冒险，所以她和妈妈待在一起，这让她哥哥松了一口气，因为他喜欢把我一个人独处。

The garden was a large one, and tastefully laid out; besides several splendid dahlias, there were some other fine flowers still in bloom: but my companion would not give me time to examine them: I must go with him, across the wet grass, to a remote sequestered corner, the most important place in the grounds, because it contained HIS garden. There were two round beds, stocked with a variety of plants. In one there was a pretty little rose-tree. I paused to admire its lovely blossoms.
花园很大，布置得很有品味。除了几朵灿烂的大丽花外，还有一些美丽的花朵还在盛开，但我的同伴不肯给我时间去观察它们：我必须和他一起，穿过湿漉漉的草地，到一个偏僻的角落，世界上最重要的地方。理由，因为它包含他的花园。有两张圆床，上面种满了各种植物。其中一棵有一棵漂亮的小玫瑰树。我停下来欣赏它可爱的花朵。

‘Oh, never mind that!’ said he, contemptuously. ‘That’s only Mary Ann’s garden; look, THIS is mine.’
“哦，别介意这个！”他轻蔑地说。 “那只是玛丽·安的花园；看，这是我的。

After I had observed every flower, and listened to a disquisition on every plant, I was permitted to depart; but first, with great pomp, he plucked a polyanthus and presented it to me, as one conferring a prodigious favour. I observed, on the grass about his garden, certain apparatus of sticks and corn, and asked what they were.
当我观察完每一朵花，听完每一株植物的专题讨论后，我被允许离开。但首先，他很隆重地摘了一朵西洋参，送给我，就像给予我一个巨大的恩惠。我在他花园周围的草地上观察到某些由棍棒和玉米制成的装置，并询问它们是什么。

‘Traps for birds.’
“鸟类陷阱。”

‘Why do you catch them?’
“你为什么要抓他们？”

‘Papa says they do harm.’
“爸爸说它们会造成伤害。”

‘And what do you do with them when you catch them?’
“当你抓住它们时，你会怎么处理它们？”

‘Different things. Sometimes I give them to the cat; sometimes I cut them in pieces with my penknife; but the next, I mean to roast alive.’
'不同的东西。有时我把它们给猫;有时我用小刀把它们切成碎片；但接下来，我打算活活烤。

‘And why do you mean to do such a horrible thing?’
“那你为什么要做这么可怕的事呢？”

‘For two reasons: first, to see how long it will live—and then, to see what it will taste like.’
“有两个原因：首先，看看它能保存多久，然后，看看它的味道如何。”

‘But don’t you know it is extremely wicked to do such things? Remember, the birds can feel as well as you; and think, how would you like it yourself?’
但你难道不知道这样做是极其邪恶的吗？请记住，鸟儿和你一样有感觉；想想，你自己会喜欢这样吗？

‘Oh, that’s nothing! I’m not a bird, and I can’t feel what I do to them.’
‘噢，那没什么！我不是鸟，我感觉不到我对他们做了什么。

‘But you will have to feel it some time, Tom: you have heard where wicked people go to when they die; and if you don’t leave off torturing innocent birds, remember, you will have to go there, and suffer just what you have made them suffer.’
“但汤姆，你总有一天会感受到这一点：你听说过恶人死后会去哪里；如果你不停止折磨无辜的小鸟，请记住，你将不得不去那里，并承受你让它们遭受的痛苦。

‘Oh, pooh! I shan’t. Papa knows how I treat them, and he never blames me for it: he says it is just what HE used to do when HE was a boy. Last summer, he gave me a nest full of young sparrows, and he saw me pulling off their legs and wings, and heads, and never said anything; except that they were nasty things, and I must not let them soil my trousers: end Uncle Robson was there too, and he laughed, and said I was a fine boy.’
‘哦，呸！我不会。爸爸知道我如何对待他们，他从不为此责备我：他说这正是他小时候所做的。去年夏天，他给了我一个满是小麻雀的窝，他看到我把它们的腿、翅膀和头拔掉，但什么也没说；只是它们是肮脏的东西，我不能让它们弄脏我的裤子：最后罗布森叔叔也在场，他笑了，说我是个好孩子。

‘But what would your mamma say?’
“但是你妈妈会怎么说呢？”

‘Oh, she doesn’t care! she says it’s a pity to kill the pretty singing birds, but the naughty sparrows, and mice, and rats, I may do what I like with. So now, Miss Grey, you see it is NOT wicked.’
‘哦，她不在乎！她说杀死那些美丽的歌唱的小鸟很遗憾，但是顽皮的麻雀、老鼠和老鼠，我可以做我喜欢做的事。所以现在，格雷小姐，你看这并不邪恶。”

‘I still think it is, Tom; and perhaps your papa and mamma would think so too, if they thought much about it. However,’ I internally added, ‘they may say what they please, but I am determined you shall do nothing of the kind, as long as I have power to prevent it.’
“我仍然这么认为，汤姆；也许你的爸爸和妈妈也会这么想，如果他们想得太多的话。然而，”我在心里补充道，“他们想说什么就说什么，但我决心，只要我有能力阻止，你就不会做这种事。”

He next took me across the lawn to see his mole-traps, and then into the stack-yard to see his weasel-traps: one of which, to his great joy, contained a dead weasel; and then into the stable to see, not the fine carriage-horses, but a little rough colt, which he informed me had been bred on purpose for him, and he was to ride it as soon as it was properly trained. I tried to amuse the little fellow, and listened to all his chatter as complacently as I could; for I thought if he had any affections at all, I would endeavour to win them; and then, in time, I might be able to show him the error of his ways: but I looked in vain for that generous, noble spirit his mother talked of; though I could see he was not without a certain degree of quickness and penetration, when he chose to exert it.
接下来他带我穿过草坪去看他的鼹鼠陷阱，然后到堆场去看他的黄鼠狼陷阱：令他非常高兴的是，其中一个陷阱里有一只死黄鼠狼；然后走进马厩，看到的不是优良的拉车马，而是一匹粗壮的小马驹，他告诉我，这匹马是特意为他饲养的，一旦经过适当的训练，他就可以骑它。我试图逗逗这个小家伙，并尽可能得意地听着他的喋喋不休。因为我想，如果他有一点感情的话，我会努力赢得他们。然后，及时地，我也许能够向他指出他的错误，但我徒劳地寻找他母亲所说的那种慷慨、高贵的精神。不过，当他选择发挥时，我可以看出他并非没有一定程度的敏捷性和洞察力。

When we re-entered the house it was nearly tea-time. Master Tom told me that, as papa was from home, he and I and Mary Ann were to have tea with mamma, for a treat; for, on such occasions, she always dined at luncheon-time with them, instead of at six o’clock. Soon after tea, Mary Ann went to bed, but Tom favoured us with his company and conversation till eight. After he was gone, Mrs. Bloomfield further enlightened me on the subject of her children’s dispositions and acquirements, and on what they were to learn, and how they were to be managed, and cautioned me to mention their defects to no one but herself. My mother had warned me before to mention them as little as possible to HER, for people did not like to be told of their children’s faults, and so I concluded I was to keep silence on them altogether. About half-past nine, Mrs. Bloomfield invited me to partake of a frugal supper of cold meat and bread. I was glad when that was over, and she took her bedroom candlestick and retired to rest; for though I wished to be pleased with her, her company was extremely irksome to me; and I could not help feeling that she was cold, grave, and forbidding—the very opposite of the kind, warm-hearted matron my hopes had depicted her to be.
当我们重新进屋时，已经快到下午茶时间了。汤姆大师告诉我，由于爸爸不在家，他和我以及玛丽·安要和妈妈一起喝茶，作为款待；因为在这种情况下，她总是在午餐时间和他们一起吃饭，而不是在六点钟。喝完茶后不久，玛丽·安就上床睡觉了，但汤姆很喜欢我们的陪伴和谈话，直到八点。他走后，布卢姆菲尔德夫人进一步向我介绍了她孩子们的性格和才能、他们要学什么、如何管理他们，并告诫我除了她自己之外不要向任何人提及他们的缺点。我母亲之前警告过我要尽量少向她提及这些问题，因为人们不喜欢被告知孩子的缺点，所以我得出结论，我应该对他们保持沉默。九点半左右，布卢姆菲尔德夫人邀请我吃一顿节俭的晚餐，有冷肉和面包。一切结束后，我很高兴，她拿起卧室的烛台，回去休息了。因为虽然我希望对她感到满意，但她的陪伴让我感到非常厌烦。我不禁感到她冷漠、严肃、令人生畏——与我所希望的善良、热心的主妇截然相反。

CHAPTER III—A FEW MORE LESSONS
第三章——更多的教训

I rose next morning with a feeling of hopeful exhilaration, in spite of the disappointments already experienced; but I found the dressing of Mary Ann was no light matter, as her abundant hair was to be smeared with pomade, plaited in three long tails, and tied with bows of ribbon: a task my unaccustomed fingers found great difficulty in performing. She told me her nurse could do it in half the time, and, by keeping up a constant fidget of impatience, contrived to render me still longer. When all was done, we went into the schoolroom, where I met my other pupil, and chatted with the two till it was time to go down to breakfast. That meal being concluded, and a few civil words having been exchanged with Mrs. Bloomfield, we repaired to the schoolroom again, and commenced the business of the day. I found my pupils very backward, indeed; but Tom, though averse to every species of mental exertion, was not without abilities. Mary Ann could scarcely read a word, and was so careless and inattentive that I could hardly get on with her at all. However, by dint of great labour and patience, I managed to get something done in the course of the morning, and then accompanied my young charge out into the garden and adjacent grounds, for a little recreation before dinner. There we got along tolerably together, except that I found they had no notion of going with me: I must go with them, wherever they chose to lead me. I must run, walk, or stand, exactly as it suited their fancy. This, I thought, was reversing the order of things; and I found it doubly disagreeable, as on this as well as subsequent occasions, they seemed to prefer the dirtiest places and the most dismal occupations. But there was no remedy; either I must follow them, or keep entirely apart from them, and thus appear neglectful of my charge. To-day, they manifested a particular attachment to a well at the bottom of the lawn, where they persisted in dabbling with sticks and pebbles for above half an hour. I was in constant fear that their mother would see them from the window, and blame me for allowing them thus to draggle their clothes and wet their feet and hands, instead of taking exercise; but no arguments, commands, or entreaties could draw them away. If SHE did not see them, some one else did—a gentleman on horseback had entered the gate and was proceeding up the road; at the distance of a few paces from us he paused, and calling to the children in a waspish penetrating tone, bade them ‘keep out of that water.’ ‘Miss Grey,’ said he, ‘(I suppose it IS Miss Grey), I am surprised that you should allow them to dirty their clothes in that manner! Don’t you see how Miss Bloomfield has soiled her frock? and that Master Bloomfield’s socks are quite wet? and both of them without gloves? Dear, dear! Let me REQUEST that in future you will keep them DECENT at least!’ so saying, he turned away, and continued his ride up to the house. This was Mr. Bloomfield. I was surprised that he should nominate his children Master and Miss Bloomfield; and still more so, that he should speak so uncivilly to me, their governess, and a perfect stranger to himself. Presently the bell rang to summon us in. I dined with the children at one, while he and his lady took their luncheon at the same table. His conduct there did not greatly raise him in my estimation. He was a man of ordinary stature— rather below than above—and rather thin than stout, apparently between thirty and forty years of age: he had a large mouth, pale, dingy complexion, milky blue eyes, and hair the colour of a hempen cord. There was a roast leg of mutton before him: he helped Mrs. Bloomfield, the children, and me, desiring me to cut up the children’s meat; then, after twisting about the mutton in various directions, and eyeing it from different points, he pronounced it not fit to be eaten, and called for the cold beef.
第二天早上，尽管已经经历过失望，但我仍怀着一种充满希望的兴奋感起床。但我发现玛丽·安的着装并不是一件容易的事，因为她丰富的头发要涂上润发油，编成三个长辫子，并用丝带打成蝴蝶结：我不习惯的手指发现这项任务很难完成。她告诉我，她的护士可以在一半的时间内完成这件事，并且通过保持不耐烦的持续坐立不安，设法让我的时间更长。一切都完成后，我们走进教室，在那里我遇到了我的另一个学生，并与两个人聊天，直到下楼吃早餐的时间。吃完饭，和布卢姆菲尔德夫人说了几句客气话后，我们又回到教室，开始今天的工作。事实上，我发现我的学生非常落后。但汤姆虽然厌恶各种脑力活动，但他并非没有能力。玛丽·安几乎一个字也看不懂，她又粗心又不专心，我几乎无法和她相处。然而，凭借巨大的努力和耐心，我设法在早上完成了一些事情，然后陪着我的小孩子到花园和邻近的场地，在晚餐前进行了一些娱乐。在那里，我们相处得还算融洽，只是我发现他们没有要和我一起去的想法：我必须和他们一起去，无论他们选择带我去哪里。我必须跑步、行走或站立，完全按照他们的喜好。我认为，这是颠倒了事情的顺序。我发现这更加令人不快，因为在这一次以及随后的场合，他们似乎更喜欢最肮脏的地方和最惨淡的职业。 但没有任何补救办法。我要么必须跟随他们，要么完全远离他们，从而显得疏忽了我的职责。今天，他们对草坪底部的一口井表现出一种特殊的执着，坚持用棍子和鹅卵石在井里钻了半个多小时。我一直担心他们的母亲会从窗户看到他们，并责怪我让他们拖着衣服，弄湿他们的脚和手，而不是锻炼；但任何争论、命令或恳求都无法将他们吸引走。即使她没有看到他们，也有其他人看到了——一位骑马的绅士走进了大门，正沿着路走；在离我们几步远的地方，他停了下来，用黄蜂般尖锐的语气对孩子们喊道，吩咐他们“不要靠近那水。”“格雷小姐，”他说，“（我想是格雷小姐） ，我很惊讶你竟然允许他们以这种方式弄脏衣服！你没看到布卢姆菲尔德小姐弄脏了她的连衣裙吗？布卢姆菲尔德大师的袜子很湿？他们俩都没有手套？亲爱的，亲爱的！让我请求你以后至少让它们保持体面！”说着，他转身走开，继续骑车朝房子走去。这是布卢姆菲尔德先生。我很惊讶他居然提名了他的孩子布卢姆菲尔德大师和布卢姆菲尔德小姐。更重要的是，他竟然对我这个他们的家庭教师、对他自己来说完全陌生的人说话如此不礼貌。不久，召唤我们进去的铃声响起。我和孩子们一起吃饭，而他和他的夫人在同一张桌子上吃午饭。他在那里的行为并没有大大提高我对他的评价。 他身材普通，不是上面，而是下面，也不是胖，而是瘦，年龄在三十岁到四十岁之间：一张大嘴，脸色苍白晦暗，眼睛是乳蓝色的，头发是麻色的。绳索。他面前摆着一条烤羊腿：他帮助布卢姆菲尔德太太、孩子们和我，要我切孩子们的肉；然后，他把羊肉从各个方向扭来扭去，从不同的角度观察它，然后宣布它不适合吃，并要求提供冷牛肉。

‘What is the matter with the mutton, my dear?’ asked his mate.
“亲爱的，羊肉怎么了？”他的同伴问。

‘It is quite overdone. Don’t you taste, Mrs. Bloomfield, that all the goodness is roasted out of it? And can’t you see that all that nice, red gravy is completely dried away?’
‘实在是太过分了。布卢姆菲尔德夫人，你难道没有尝到所有的美味都被烤出来了吗？你没看到那些美味的红色肉汁已经完全干掉了吗？

‘Well, I think the BEEF will suit you.’
“嗯，我想牛肉会适合你。”

The beef was set before him, and he began to carve, but with the most rueful expressions of discontent.
牛肉摆在他面前，他开始切肉，但表情却是最悲伤、最不满。

‘What is the matter with the BEEF, Mr. Bloomfield? I’m sure I thought it was very nice.’
“布卢姆菲尔德先生，牛肉出了什么问题？”我确信我认为这非常好。

‘And so it WAS very nice. A nicer joint could not be; but it is QUITE spoiled,’ replied he, dolefully.
“所以这非常好。”没有比这更好的接头了；但它已经被宠坏了。”他悲伤地回答道。

‘How so?’
'为何如此？'

‘How so! Why, don’t you see how it is cut? Dear—dear! it is quite shocking!’
'为何如此！为什么，你没看到它是如何切割的吗？亲爱的——亲爱的！太令人震惊了！

‘They must have cut it wrong in the kitchen, then, for I’m sure I carved it quite properly here, yesterday.’
“那么，他们一定是在厨房里把它切错了，因为我确信我昨天在这里把它切得很正确。”

‘No DOUBT they cut it wrong in the kitchen—the savages! Dear— dear! Did ever any one see such a fine piece of beef so completely ruined? But remember that, in future, when a decent dish leaves this table, they shall not TOUCH it in the kitchen. Remember THAT, Mrs. Bloomfield!’
“毫无疑问，他们在厨房里切错了——野蛮人！亲爱的——亲爱的！有人见过这么好的一块牛肉被毁得这么彻底吗？但请记住，将来，当一道像样的菜肴离开这张桌子时，他们不应该在厨房里碰它。记住这一点，布卢姆菲尔德夫人！”

Notwithstanding the ruinous state of the beef, the gentleman managed to out himself some delicate slices, part of which he ate in silence. When he next spoke, it was, in a less querulous tone, to ask what there was for dinner.
尽管牛肉已经腐烂不堪，这位绅士还是给自己切了一些精致的切片，并默默地吃了其中的一部分。当他下次说话时，用一种不那么抱怨的语气问晚饭吃什么。

‘Turkey and grouse,’ was the concise reply.
“火鸡和松鸡。”这是简洁的回答。

‘And what besides?’
“此外还有什么？”

‘Fish.’
'鱼。'

‘What kind of fish?’
“什么鱼？”

‘I don’t know.’
'我不知道。'

‘YOU DON’T KNOW?’ cried he, looking solemnly up from his plate, and suspending his knife and fork in astonishment.
“你不知道？”他大声喊道，从盘子里抬起头来，惊讶地挂起了刀叉。

‘No. I told the cook to get some fish—I did not particularize what.’
'不。我告诉厨师去拿点鱼——我没有具体说明是什么。”

‘Well, that beats everything! A lady professes to keep house, and doesn’t even know what fish is for dinner! professes to order fish, and doesn’t specify what!’
‘好吧，这胜过一切！一位女士自称持家，连晚餐吃什么鱼都不知道！声称要点鱼，但没有具体说明是什么！

‘Perhaps, Mr. Bloomfield, you will order dinner yourself in future.’
“布卢姆菲尔德先生，也许你以后会自己点晚餐。”

Nothing more was said; and I was very glad to get out of the room with my pupils; for I never felt so ashamed and uncomfortable in my life for anything that was not my own fault.
没有再说什么。我很高兴和我的学生一起走出房间。因为我一生中从来没有因为任何不是我自己的错的事情而感到如此羞愧和不舒服。

In the afternoon we applied to lessons again: then went out again; then had tea in the schoolroom; then I dressed Mary Ann for dessert; and when she and her brother had gone down to the diningroom, I took the opportunity of beginning a letter to my dear friends at home: but the children came up before I had half completed it. At seven I had to put Mary Ann to bed; then I played with Tom till eight, when he, too, went; and I finished my letter and unpacked my clothes, which I had hitherto found no opportunity for doing, and, finally, went to bed myself.
下午我们又申请上课：然后又出去了；然后到教室喝茶；然后我给玛丽·安穿上甜点；当她和她哥哥下楼去餐厅时，我趁机给家里亲爱的朋友们写了一封信，但我还没写完一半，孩子们就来了。七点钟我必须让玛丽·安上床睡觉。然后我和汤姆一起玩到八点，他也走了。我写完信，打开我的衣服，这是我迄今为止没有机会做的事，最后，我自己上床睡觉了。

But this is a very favourable specimen of a day’s proceedings.
但这是一天的进程中一个非常有利的例子。

My task of instruction and surveillance, instead of becoming easier as my charges and I got better accustomed to each other, became more arduous as their characters unfolded. The name of governess, I soon found, was a mere mockery as applied to me: my pupils had no more notion of obedience than a wild, unbroken colt. The habitual fear of their father’s peevish temper, and the dread of the punishments he was wont to inflict when irritated, kept them generally within bounds in his immediate presence. The girls, too, had some fear of their mother’s anger; and the boy might occasionally be bribed to do as she bid him by the hope of reward; but I had no rewards to offer; and as for punishments, I was given to understand, the parents reserved that privilege to themselves; and yet they expected me to keep my pupils in order. Other children might be guided by the fear of anger and the desire of approbation; but neither the one nor the other had any effect upon these.
随着我和我的负责人彼此更加熟悉，我的指导和监视任务并没有变得更加容易，反而随着他们的性格的展开而变得更加艰巨。我很快发现，家庭女教师的名字对我来说只是一种嘲讽：我的学生对服从的概念就像一匹野性的、完整的小马驹一样。对父亲暴躁脾气的习惯性恐惧，以及对父亲在激怒时所施加的惩罚的恐惧，使他们在父亲面前一般都保持在一定范围内。女孩们也有些害怕母亲的愤怒。有时，男孩可能会被贿赂，按照她的吩咐去做，希望得到报酬。但我没有任何回报；至于惩罚，据我了解，父母保留了他们自己的特权。然而他们希望我让我的学生保持秩序。其他孩子可能会受到对愤怒的恐惧和认可的渴望的引导。但两者都对这些没有任何影响。

Master Tom, not content with refusing to be ruled, must needs set up as a ruler, and manifested a determination to keep, not only his sisters, but his governess in order, by violent manual and pedal applications; and, as he was a tall, strong boy of his years, this occasioned no trifling inconvenience. A few sound boxes on the ear, on such occasions, might have settled the matter easily enough: but as, in that case, he might make up some story to his mother which she would be sure to believe, as she had such unshaken faith in his veracity—though I had already discovered it to be by no means unimpeachable—I determined to refrain from striking him, even in self-defence; and, in his most violent moods, my only resource was to throw him on his back and hold his hands and feet till the frenzy was somewhat abated. To the difficulty of preventing him from doing what he ought not, was added that of forcing him to do what he ought. Often he would positively refuse to learn, or to repeat his lessons, or even to look at his book. Here, again, a good birch rod might have been serviceable; but, as my powers were so limited, I must make the best use of what I had.
汤姆大师并不满足于拒绝被统治，他必须被树立为统治者，并表现出决心，通过暴力的手动和踏板应用，不仅让他的姐妹们，而且让他的家庭女教师保持秩序；而且，由于他在同龄人中是个又高又壮的男孩，所以这并没有造成任何不便。在这种情况下，在耳朵上放几个音箱可能很容易解决问题：但在这种情况下，他可能会向他的母亲编一些故事，她一定会相信，因为她有坚定不移的信念鉴于他的诚实——尽管我已经发现它绝不是无懈可击的——我决定不打他，即使是出于自卫；在他情绪最暴躁的时候，我唯一的办法就是把他摔倒在地，握住他的手脚，直到他的疯狂情绪有所减弱。除了阻止他做他不应该做的事情之外，强迫他做他应该做的事情也很困难。他常常会断然拒绝学习，或重复他的课程，甚至拒绝看他的书。在这里，再一次，一根好的桦木杆可能有用；但是，由于我的力量如此有限，我必须充分利用我所拥有的。

As there were no settled hours for study and play, I resolved to give my pupils a certain task, which, with moderate attention, they could perform in a short time; and till this was done, however weary I was, or however perverse they might be, nothing short of parental interference should induce me to suffer them to leave the schoolroom, even if I should sit with my chair against the door to keep them in. Patience, Firmness, and Perseverance were my only weapons; and these I resolved to use to the utmost. I determined always strictly to fulfil the threats and promises I made; and, to that end, I must be cautious to threaten and promise nothing that I could not perform. Then, I would carefully refrain from all useless irritability and indulgence of my own ill-temper: when they behaved tolerably, I would be as kind and obliging as it was in my power to be, in order to make the widest possible distinction between good and bad conduct; I would reason with them, too, in the simplest and most effective manner. When I reproved them, or refused to gratify their wishes, after a glaring fault, it should be more in sorrow than in anger: their little hymns and prayers I would make plain and clear to their understanding; when they said their prayers at night and asked pardon for their offences, I would remind them of the sins of the past day, solemnly, but in perfect kindness, to avoid raising a spirit of opposition; penitential hymns should be said by the naughty, cheerful ones by the comparatively good; and every kind of instruction I would convey to them, as much as possible, by entertaining discourse—apparently with no other object than their present amusement in view.
由于没有固定的学习和玩耍时间，我决定给我的学生布置一项任务，只要他们集中注意力，他们就可以在短时间内完成；在这一切完成之前，无论我多么疲倦，或者无论他们多么乖戾，除了父母的干涉之外，没有什么可以促使我允许他们离开教室，即使我应该把椅子靠在门上坐着，把他们留在教室里。耐心、坚定和毅力是我唯一的武器；我决心最大限度地利用这些。我决心始终严格履行我所做出的威胁和承诺；为此，我必须谨慎行事，不要威胁或许诺任何我做不到的事情。然后，我会小心翼翼地避免一切无用的烦躁和放纵自己的坏脾气：当他们表现得还算可以时，我会尽我所能地表现出友善和乐于助人，以便在善与恶之间做出尽可能广泛的区分。和不良行为；我也会用最简单、最有效的方式跟他们讲道理。当我责备他们，或拒绝满足他们的愿望，在一个明显的错误之后，更多的是悲伤而不是愤怒：我会让他们明白并清楚地理解他们的小赞美诗和祈祷；当他们晚上祈祷并请求宽恕他们的罪行时，我会庄严但完全善意地提醒他们过去一天的罪过，以避免激起反对的情绪；顽皮的人应该唱忏悔的赞美诗，相对善良的人应该唱快乐的赞美诗。我会尽可能地通过有趣的谈话向他们传达各种指示——显然除了他们当前的娱乐之外没有其他目的。

By these means I hoped in time both to benefit the children and to gain the approbation of their parents; and also to convince my friends at home that I was not so wanting in skill and prudence as they supposed. I knew the difficulties I had to contend with were great; but I knew (at least I believed) unremitting patience and perseverance could overcome them; and night and morning I implored Divine assistance to this end. But either the children were so incorrigible, the parents so unreasonable, or myself so mistaken in my views, or so unable to carry them out, that my best intentions and most strenuous efforts seemed productive of no better result than sport to the children, dissatisfaction to their parents, and torment to myself.
我希望通过这些方式及时让孩子们受益，并得到父母的认可。也让我家里的朋友相信我并不像他们想象的那样缺乏技巧和谨慎。我知道我必须面对的困难是巨大的；但我知道（至少我相信）坚持不懈的耐心和毅力可以克服它们；为此，我夜以继日地祈求上帝的帮助。但要么是孩子们太不可救药，要么是父母们太不可理喻，要么是我自己的观点太错误，或者太无法执行，以至于我最好的意图和最艰苦的努力似乎没有比孩子们的运动更好的结果，不满给父母，也折磨自己。

The task of instruction was as arduous for the body as the mind. I had to run after my pupils to catch them, to carry or drag them to the table, and often forcibly to hold them there till the lesson was done. Tom I frequently put into a corner, seating myself before him in a chair, with a book which contained the little task that must be said or read, before he was released, in my hand. He was not strong enough to push both me and the chair away, so he would stand twisting his body and face into the most grotesque and singular contortions—laughable, no doubt, to an unconcerned spectator, but not to me—and uttering loud yells and doleful outcries, intended to represent weeping but wholly without the accompaniment of tears. I knew this was done solely for the purpose of annoying me; and, therefore, however I might inwardly tremble with impatience and irritation, I manfully strove to suppress all visible signs of molestation, and affected to sit with calm indifference, waiting till it should please him to cease this pastime, and prepare for a run in the garden, by casting his eye on the book and reading or repeating the few words he was required to say. Sometimes he was determined to do his writing badly; and I had to hold his hand to prevent him from purposely blotting or disfiguring the paper. Frequently I threatened that, if he did not do better, he should have another line: then he would stubbornly refuse to write this line; and I, to save my word, had finally to resort to the expedient of holding his fingers upon the pen, and forcibly drawing his hand up and down, till, in spite of his resistance, the line was in some sort completed.
指导任务对于身体和心灵来说都是艰巨的。我不得不追着我的学生去抓住他们，把他们抱到或拖到桌子上，并且常常强行把他们留在那里直到下课。我经常把汤姆放在角落里，坐在他面前的一把椅子上，手里拿着一本书，其中载有在他被释放之前必须说或读的小任务。他没有足够的力气将我和椅子推开，所以他会站在那里，扭曲着自己的身体和脸，做出最怪诞和最奇异的扭曲——毫无疑问，对于一个不关心的旁观者来说是可笑的，但对我来说却不是——并大声喊叫以及悲伤的呼喊，意在代表哭泣，但完全没有泪水伴随。我知道这样做只是为了惹恼我；因此，尽管我内心可能会因不耐烦和恼怒而颤抖，但我还是勇敢地努力抑制所有明显的骚扰迹象，假装平静冷漠地坐着，等待直到他高兴为止，停止这种消遣，并准备逃跑。花园，通过将目光投向书本并阅读或重复他被要求说的几句话。有时他决心把自己的作品写得很糟糕；我不得不握住他的手，防止他故意把纸弄脏或弄脏。我常常威胁说，如果他写得不好，就再写一行字，然后他就固执地不写这行字；为了保住我的诺言，我最终不得不采取权宜之计，将他的手指放在笔上，用力上下拉动他的手，直到尽管他​​反抗，这条线还是完成了。

Yet Tom was by no means the most unmanageable of my pupils: sometimes, to my great joy, he would have the sense to see that his wisest policy was to finish his tasks, and go out and amuse himself till I and his sisters came to join him; which frequently was not at all, for Mary Ann seldom followed his example in this particular: she apparently preferred rolling on the floor to any other amusement: down she would drop like a leaden weight; and when I, with great difficulty, had succeeded in rooting her thence, I had still to hold her up with one arm, while with the other I held the book from which she was to read or spell her lesson. As the dead weight of the big girl of six became too heavy for one arm to bear, I transferred it to the other; or, if both were weary of the burden, I carried her into a corner, and told her she might come out when she should find the use of her feet, and stand up: but she generally preferred lying there like a log till dinner or tea-time, when, as I could not deprive her of her meals, she must be liberated, and would come crawling out with a grin of triumph on her round, red face. Often she would stubbornly refuse to pronounce some particular word in her lesson; and now I regret the lost labour I have had in striving to conquer her obstinacy. If I had passed it over as a matter of no consequence, it would have been better for both parties, than vainly striving to overcome it as I did; but I thought it my absolute duty to crush this vicious tendency in the bud: and so it was, if I could have done it; and had my powers been less limited, I might have enforced obedience; but, as it was, it was a trial of strength between her and me, in which she generally came off victorious; and every victory served to encourage and strengthen her for a future contest. In vain I argued, coaxed, entreated, threatened, scolded; in vain I kept her in from play, or, if obliged to take her out, refused to play with her, or to speak kindly or have anything to do with her; in vain I tried to set before her the advantages of doing as she was bid, and being loved, and kindly treated in consequence, and the disadvantages of persisting in her absurd perversity. Sometimes, when she would ask me to do something for her, I would answer,— ‘Yes, I will, Mary Ann, if you will only say that word. Come! you’d better say it at once, and have no more trouble about it.’
然而，汤姆绝不是我的学生中最难以管理的一个：有时，令我非常高兴的是，他会意识到他最明智的策略就是完成他的任务，然后出去娱乐，直到我和他的姐妹们明白为止。加入他；但事实往往并非如此，因为玛丽·安在这一点上很少效仿他的榜样：她显然更喜欢在地板上打滚，而不是其他任何娱乐活动：她会像铅一样掉下来；她会像铅块一样掉下来；她会像铅块一样掉下来；她会像铅块一样掉下来；她会像铅块一样掉下来。当我费了九牛二虎之力才成功地把她从那里拉出来时，我仍然必须用一只手臂支撑着她，而另一只手臂则拿着她要阅读或拼写课程的书。由于六岁大女孩的体重太重，一只手臂无法承受，我就把它转移到另一只手臂上；或者，如果两个人都厌倦了这个负担，我把她抱到一个角落里，告诉她，当她找到脚的用途时，她可以出来并站起来：但她通常更喜欢像一根木头一样躺在那里，直到吃晚饭或下午茶时间，我不能不让她吃饭，她必须被解放，她圆圆的、红红的脸上带着胜利的笑容爬出来。她常常顽固地拒绝在课上发音某些特定的单词。现在我对自己在努力克服她的固执方面所付出的努力感到遗憾。 如果我把它当作无足轻重的事情而忽略掉，那对双方来说都比像我一样徒劳地努力克服它更好。但我认为我绝对有责任将这种邪恶倾向消灭在萌芽状态：如果我能做到的话，我确实做到了。如果我的权力不那么有限，我可能会强制服从；但事实上，这是我和她之间的一场力量较量，她总体上取得了胜利。每一次的胜利都为她在未来的比赛中带来鼓励和力量。我争辩、哄骗、恳求、威胁、责骂，都是徒劳的；我徒劳地不让她玩耍，或者，如果不得不带她出去，我拒绝和她一起玩，或与她友善地交谈或与她有任何关系；我徒劳地试图向她展示按照她的吩咐去做、被爱、因此受到善待的好处，以及坚持她荒谬的任性的坏处。有时，当她要求我为她做某事时，我会回答：“是的，我会的，玛丽·安，只要你只说这个词。”来！你最好立刻说出来，这样就不会再有麻烦了。’

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Then, of course, I can do nothing for you.’
“那我当然帮不了你了。”

With me, at her age, or under, neglect and disgrace were the most dreadful of punishments; but on her they made no impression. Sometimes, exasperated to the utmost pitch, I would shake her violently by the shoulder, or pull her long hair, or put her in the corner; for which she punished me with loud, shrill, piercing screams, that went through my head like a knife. She knew I hated this, and when she had shrieked her utmost, would look into my face with an air of vindictive satisfaction, exclaiming,—‘NOW, then! THAT’S for you!’ and then shriek again and again, till I was forced to stop my ears. Often these dreadful cries would bring Mrs. Bloomfield up to inquire what was the matter?
对我来说，不管是在她这个年纪，还是比她还小，忽视和羞辱都是最可怕的惩罚。但他们对她没有留下任何印象。有时，我被激怒到了极点，会猛烈地摇晃她的肩膀，或者拉扯她的长发，或者把她放在角落里。为此，她用响亮、尖锐、刺耳的尖叫声惩罚我，这些尖叫声像刀子一样刺穿我的脑袋。她知道我讨厌这样，当她竭尽全力尖叫时，她会带着一种报复性满足的神情看着我的脸，大声喊道：“现在，那么！”那是给你的！”然后一次又一次地尖叫，直到我被迫捂住耳朵。通常，这些可怕的哭声会引起布卢姆菲尔德夫人的注意，询问发生了什么事？

‘Mary Ann is a naughty girl, ma’am.’
“玛丽·安是个顽皮的女孩，女士。”

‘But what are these shocking screams?’
“但是这些令人震惊的尖叫声是什么？”

‘She is screaming in a passion.’
“她在激情中尖叫。”

‘I never heard such a dreadful noise! You might be killing her. Why is she not out with her brother?’
“我从来没有听过这么可怕的声音！你可能会杀了她。她为什么不和她哥哥出去？

‘I cannot get her to finish her lessons.’
“我无法让她完成学业。”

‘But Mary Ann must be a GOOD girl, and finish her lessons.’ This was blandly spoken to the child. ‘And I hope I shall NEVER hear such terrible cries again!’
“但是玛丽·安一定是个好女孩，一定要完成她的功课。”这是温和地对孩子说的。 “我希望我再也不会听到如此可怕的哭声！”

And fixing her cold, stony eyes upon me with a look that could not be mistaken, she would shut the door, and walk away. Sometimes I would try to take the little obstinate creature by surprise, and casually ask her the word while she was thinking of something else; frequently she would begin to say it, and then suddenly cheek herself, with a provoking look that seemed to say, ‘Ah! I’m too sharp for you; you shan’t trick it out of me, either.’
她用冰冷、铁石心肠的眼睛用一种不会弄错的眼神看着我，然后关上门，走开。有时我会试图给这个顽固的小生物一个措手不及，当她在想别的事情时，漫不经心地问她这个词。她常常会开始这么说，然后突然厚着脸皮，露出一种挑衅的表情，似乎在说：“啊！我对你来说太敏锐了；你也别想骗我。”

On another occasion, I pretended to forget the whole affair; and talked and played with her as usual, till night, when I put her to bed; then bending over her, while she lay all smiles and good humour, just before departing, I said, as cheerfully and kindly as before—‘Now, Mary Ann, just tell me that word before I kiss you good-night. You are a good girl now, and, of course, you will say it.’
还有一次，我假装忘记了整件事。像往常一样和她聊天、玩耍，直到晚上，我才把她哄上床睡觉。然后俯身在她身上，她满面笑容，心情愉快，就在离开之前，我像以前一样愉快而友善地说道：“现在，玛丽·安，在我吻你道晚安之前，请告诉我这个词。”你现在是个好女孩了，当然，你会这么说的。”

‘No, I won’t.’
“不，我不会。”

‘Then I can’t kiss you.’
“那我就不能吻你了。”

‘Well, I don’t care.’
“好吧，我不在乎。”

In vain I expressed my sorrow; in vain I lingered for some symptom of contrition; she really ‘didn’t care,’ and I left her alone, and in darkness, wondering most of all at this last proof of insensate stubbornness. In MY childhood I could not imagine a more afflictive punishment than for my mother to refuse to kiss me at night: the very idea was terrible. More than the idea I never felt, for, happily, I never committed a fault that was deemed worthy of such penalty; but once I remember, for some transgression of my sister’s, our mother thought proper to inflict it upon her: what SHE felt, I cannot tell; but my sympathetic tears and suffering for her sake I shall not soon forget.
我徒劳地表达了我的悲伤；我徒劳地等待着某种悔罪的迹象。她真的“不在乎”，我就让她一个人呆在黑暗中，最想知道的是这最后的证据证明了她的无知固执。在我的童年时期，我无法想象比母亲拒绝在晚上亲吻我更令人痛苦的惩罚：这个想法本身就很可怕。不仅仅是我从未有过的想法，因为幸运的是，我从未犯过被认为值得受到如此惩罚的错误；但一旦我记起，由于我姐姐的一些过犯，我们的母亲认为应该对她施加这种惩罚：我无法告诉她她的感受；她的感受是什么？但我不会很快忘记我为她而流下的同情泪水和痛苦。

Another troublesome trait in Mary Ann was her incorrigible propensity to keep running into the nursery, to play with her little sisters and the nurse. This was natural enough, but, as it was against her mother’s express desire, I, of course, forbade her to do so, and did my utmost to keep her with me; but that only increased her relish for the nursery, and the more I strove to keep her out of it, the oftener she went, and the longer she stayed, to the great dissatisfaction of Mrs. Bloomfield, who, I well knew, would impute all the blame of the matter to me. Another of my trials was the dressing in the morning: at one time she would not be washed; at another she would not be dressed, unless she might wear some particular frock, that I knew her mother would not like her to have; at another she would scream and run away if I attempted to touch her hair. So that, frequently, when, after much trouble and toil, I had, at length, succeeded in bringing her down, the breakfast was nearly half over; and black looks from ‘mamma,’ and testy observations from ‘papa,’ spoken at me, if not to me, were sure to be my meed: for few things irritated the latter so much as want of punctuality at meal times. Then, among the minor annoyances, was my inability to satisfy Mrs. Bloomfield with her daughter’s dress; and the child’s hair ‘was never fit to be seen.’ Sometimes, as a powerful reproach to me, she would perform the office of tire woman herself, and then complain bitterly of the trouble it gave her.
玛丽·安的另一个麻烦特征是她总是跑进育婴室，和她的小姐妹和护士一起玩，这是她无可救药的倾向。这是很自然的事，但是，由于这违背了她母亲的明确愿望，我当然禁止她这样做，并尽我最大的努力让她留在我身边；但这只会增加她对托儿所的兴趣，我越是努力不让她进去，她去的次数就越多，待的时间也越长，这引起了布卢姆菲尔德太太的极大不满，我很清楚，她会把这归咎于这件事全归咎于我。我的另一个考验是早上的穿衣：有一次她不洗；有一次她不洗澡；有一次她不洗澡。有时她不会穿衣服，除非她可以穿一些特别的连衣裙，我知道她母亲不喜欢她穿那件衣服。另一次，如果我试图碰她的头发，她就会尖叫并逃跑。因此，常常，当我经过一番周折和辛劳，终于成功地把她弄下来时，早餐已经快吃完一半了。 “妈妈”的黑色眼神和“爸爸”对我的暴躁评论，即使不是对我来说，也肯定是我的食物：因为没有什么比吃饭时间不准时更让后者恼火的了。然后，在一些小烦恼中，我无法让布卢姆菲尔德夫人对她女儿的衣服感到满意。有时，作为对我的强烈谴责，她会亲自履行轮胎妇女的职责，然后痛苦地抱怨这给她带来的麻烦。

When little Fanny came into the schoolroom, I hoped she would be mild and inoffensive, at least; but a few days, if not a few hours, sufficed to destroy the illusion: I found her a mischievous, intractable little creature, given up to falsehood and deception, young as she was, and alarmingly fond of exercising her two favourite weapons of offence and defence: that of spitting in the faces of those who incurred her displeasure, and bellowing like a bull when her unreasonable desires were not gratified. As she, generally, was pretty quiet in her parents’ presence, and they were impressed with the notion of her being a remarkably gentle child, her falsehoods were readily believed, and her loud uproars led them to suspect harsh and injudicious treatment on my part; and when, at length, her bad disposition became manifest even to their prejudiced eyes, I felt that the whole was attributed to me.
当小范妮走进教室时，我希望她至少能表现得温和、不伤人。但几天，如果不是几个小时，就足以摧毁这种幻想：我发现她是一个顽皮、顽固的小生物，屈服于谎言和欺骗，尽管她很年轻，却惊人地喜欢运用她最喜欢的两种进攻武器防御：向那些令她不悦的人吐口水，当她的无理欲望得不到满足时，她会像公牛一样咆哮。由于她在父母面前一般都很安静，而且他们对她是一个非常温柔的孩子印象深刻，所以她的谎言很容易被相信，而她的大声喧哗让他们怀疑我的粗暴和不明智的对待;最后，当她的坏脾气甚至在他们充满偏见的目光中显现出来时，我觉得这一切都归咎于我。

‘What a naughty girl Fanny is getting!’ Mrs. Bloomfield would say to her spouse. ‘Don’t you observe, my dear, how she is altered since she entered the schoolroom? She will soon be as bad as the other two; and, I am sorry to say, they have quite deteriorated of late.’
“范妮真是个淘气的女孩！”布卢姆菲尔德夫人会对她的配偶说。 “亲爱的，你难道没有观察到，自从她进入教室以来，她发生了怎样的变化吗？”她很快就会和另外两个人一样糟糕；而且，我很遗憾地说，他们最近的情况已经相当恶化。

‘You may say that,’ was the answer. ‘I’ve been thinking that same myself. I thought when we got them a governess they’d improve; but, instead of that, they get worse and worse: I don’t know how it is with their learning, but their habits, I know, make no sort of improvement; they get rougher, and dirtier, and more unseemly every day.’
答案是：“你可以这么说。” ‘我自己也一直这么想。我想当我们给他们找一位家庭教师时，他们的进步就会有所提高。但是，相反，他们变得越来越糟：我不知道他们的学习情况如何，但我知道他们的习惯没有任何改善；他们一天比一天变得更粗鲁、更肮脏、更不体面。

I knew this was all pointed at me; and these, and all similar innuendoes, affected me far more deeply than any open accusations would have done; for against the latter I should have been roused to speak in my own defence: now I judged it my wisest plan to subdue every resentful impulse, suppress every sensitive shrinking, and go on perseveringly, doing my best; for, irksome as my situation was, I earnestly wished to retain it. I thought, if I could struggle on with unremitting firmness and integrity, the children would in time become more humanized: every month would contribute to make them some little wiser, and, consequently, more manageable; for a child of nine or ten as frantic and ungovernable as these at six and seven would be a maniac.
我知道这一切都是针对我的；这些以及所有类似的影射对我的影响远比任何公开的指控要深得多。因为反对后者，我应该被唤醒为自己辩护：现在我认为我最明智的计划是抑制每一种怨恨的冲动，抑制每一种敏感的退缩，并坚持不懈地继续下去，尽我所能；因为，尽管我的处境令人厌烦，但我真诚地希望保留它。我想，如果我能够坚持不懈地坚定和正直地奋斗下去，孩子们迟早会变得更加人性化：每个月都会让他们变得更聪明一点，从而更容易管理；对于一个九岁或十岁的孩子来说，像六岁和七岁的孩子一样疯狂和难以控制，那就是一个疯子。

I flattered myself I was benefiting my parents and sister by my continuance here; for small as the salary was, I still was earning something, and with strict economy I could easily manage to have something to spare for them, if they would favour me by taking it. Then it was by my own will that I had got the place: I had brought all this tribulation on myself, and I was determined to bear it; nay, more than that, I did not even regret the step I had taken. I longed to show my friends that, even now, I was competent to undertake the charge, and able to acquit myself honourably to the end; and if ever I felt it degrading to submit so quietly, or intolerable to toil so constantly, I would turn towards my home, and say within myself -
我沾沾自喜，因为我继续留在这里，让我的父母和妹妹受益匪浅。虽然薪水虽少，但我还是赚到了一些钱，只要他们愿意接受，我只要严格节约，就可以很容易地为他们留下一些钱。然后我就得到了这个位置，这是我自己的意愿：这一切磨难都是我自己带来的，我决心承受它；不仅如此，我什至不后悔自己迈出的这一步。我渴望向我的朋友们表明，即使是现在，我也有能力承担这项指控，并且能够光荣地宣告自己无罪到底。如果我觉得如此安静地服从是有辱人格的，或者无法忍受如此不断地劳作，我会转向我的家，并对自己说：

They may crush, but they shall not subdue me!
他们可以压垮我，但他们无法征服我！

‘Tis of thee that I think, not of them.
我想到的是你，而不是他们。

About Christmas I was allowed to visit home; but my holiday was only of a fortnight’s duration: ‘For,’ said Mrs. Bloomfield, ‘I thought, as you had seen your friends so lately, you would not care for a longer stay.’ I left her to think so still: but she little knew how long, how wearisome those fourteen weeks of absence had been to me; how intensely I had longed for my holidays, how greatly I was disappointed at their curtailment. Yet she was not to blame in this. I had never told her my feelings, and she could not be expected to divine them; I had not been with her a full term, and she was justified in not allowing me a full vacation.
圣诞节前后，我被允许回家探望。但我的假期只有两周的时间：“因为，”布卢姆菲尔德夫人说，“我想，因为你最近才见到你的朋友，所以你不会介意多待一段时间。”我让她继续这样想：但她不知道这十四个星期的缺席对我来说有多久、有多么令人厌倦。我多么渴望假期，却对假期的减少感到多么失望。然而，这件事不能归咎于她。我从来没有告诉过她我的感受，她也不能指望我能猜到我的感受。我和她在一起还没有度过一个完整的学期，她不给我一个完整的假期是有道理的。

CHAPTER IV—THE GRANDMAMMA
第四章——奶奶

I spare my readers the account of my delight on coming home, my happiness while there—enjoying a brief space of rest and liberty in that dear, familiar place, among the loving and the loved—and my sorrow on being obliged to bid them, once more, a long adieu.
我不向读者讲述我回家时的喜悦，我在那里的幸福——在那个亲爱的、熟悉的地方，在爱人和被爱的人中间享受短暂的休息和自由的空间——以及我不得不向他们发出的悲伤，再次，漫长的告别。

I returned, however, with unabated vigour to my work—a more arduous task than anyone can imagine, who has not felt something like the misery of being charged with the care and direction of a set of mischievous, turbulent rebels, whom his utmost exertions cannot bind to their duty; while, at the same time, he is responsible for their conduct to a higher power, who exacts from him what cannot be achieved without the aid of the superior’s more potent authority; which, either from indolence, or the fear of becoming unpopular with the said rebellious gang, the latter refuses to give. I can conceive few situations more harassing than that wherein, however you may long for success, however you may labour to fulfil your duty, your efforts are baffled and set at nought by those beneath you, and unjustly censured and misjudged by those above.
然而，我带着不减的活力回到了我的工作中——这是一项比任何人想象的更加艰巨的任务，谁没有感受到像被指控照顾和指导一群顽皮、暴躁的叛逆者那样的痛苦，他尽了最大的努力。不能履行其职责；与此同时，他还要对自己的行为向更高的权力负责，后者向他索取如果没有上级更强大的权威的帮助就无法实现的目标；后者要么是因为懒惰，要么是害怕不受该叛乱团伙的欢迎，所以拒绝给予。我想象不出比这种情况更令人困扰的情况：无论你如何渴望成功，无论你如何努力履行你的职责，你的努力都受到下属的阻挠和置之不理，并受到上级的不公正的谴责和误判。

I have not enumerated half the vexatious propensities of my pupils, or half the troubles resulting from my heavy responsibilities, for fear of trespassing too much upon the reader’s patience; as, perhaps, I have already done; but my design in writing the few last pages was not to amuse, but to benefit those whom it might concern; he that has no interest in such matters will doubtless have skipped them over with a cursory glance, and, perhaps, a malediction against the prolixity of the writer; but if a parent has, therefrom, gathered any useful hint, or an unfortunate governess received thereby the slightest benefit, I am well rewarded for my pains.
我没有列举一半学生的烦躁倾向，或一半因我的繁重责任而产生的麻烦，因为担心过度侵犯读者的耐心；也许，我已经做过了；但我写最后几页的目的并不是为了娱乐，而是为了让那些可能关心的人受益。对这些事情不感兴趣的人无疑会粗略地浏览一下，并可能对作者的冗长进行咒骂。但如果一位家长从中得到了任何有用的提示，或者一位不幸的家庭教师从中得到了哪怕一丝一毫的好处，我的辛劳就会得到很好的回报。

To avoid trouble and confusion, I have taken my pupils one by one, and discussed their various qualities; but this can give no adequate idea of being worried by the whole three together; when, as was often the case, all were determined to ‘be naughty, and to tease Miss Grey, and put her in a passion.’
为了避免麻烦和混乱，我把我的学生一一带去，讨论他们的各种品质；但这并不能充分说明这三个人在一起所担心的情况。正如经常发生的那样，所有人都决定“顽皮地取笑格雷小姐，让她陷入激情。”

Sometimes, on such occasions, the thought has suddenly occurred to me—‘If they could see me now!’ meaning, of course, my friends at home; and the idea of how they would pity me has made me pity myself—so greatly that I have had the utmost difficulty to restrain my tears: but I have restrained them, till my little tormentors were gone to dessert, or cleared off to bed (my only prospects of deliverance), and then, in all the bliss of solitude, I have given myself up to the luxury of an unrestricted burst of weeping. But this was a weakness I did not often indulge: my employments were too numerous, my leisure moments too precious, to admit of much time being given to fruitless lamentations.
有时，在这种情况下，我会突然想到“如果他们现在能看到我就好了！”当然是指我家里的朋友们；一想到他们会可怜我，我就可怜自己——如此之大，以至于我很难克制住自己的泪水：但我忍住了，直到那些折磨我的小家伙们去吃甜点，或者上床睡觉（我唯一的解脱希望），然后，在孤独的幸福中，我尽情地放声大哭。但这是我不常纵容的弱点：我的工作太多，我的闲暇时间太宝贵，不允许我把太多时间花在徒劳的哀叹上。

I particularly remember one wild, snowy afternoon, soon after my return in January: the children had all come up from dinner, loudly declaring that they meant ‘to be naughty;’ and they had well kept their resolution, though I had talked myself hoarse, and wearied every muscle in my throat, in the vain attempt to reason them out of it. I had got Tom pinned up in a corner, whence, I told him, he should not escape till he had done his appointed task. Meantime, Fanny had possessed herself of my work-bag, and was rifling its contents—and spitting into it besides. I told her to let it alone, but to no purpose, of course. ‘Burn it, Fanny!’ cried Tom: and THIS command she hastened to obey. I sprang to snatch it from the fire, and Tom darted to the door. ‘Mary Ann, throw her desk out of the window!’ cried he: and my precious desk, containing my letters and papers, my small amount of cash, and all my valuables, was about to be precipitated from the three-storey window. I flew to rescue it. Meanwhile Tom had left the room, and was rushing down the stairs, followed by Fanny. Having secured my desk, I ran to catch them, and Mary Ann came scampering after. All three escaped me, and ran out of the house into the garden, where they plunged about in the snow, shouting and screaming in exultant glee.
我特别记得一月份我回来后不久的一个狂野的、下着雪的下午：孩子们都吃完晚饭走了过来，大声宣称他们的意思是“淘气”；他们很好地保持了他们的决心，尽管我把自己说得声音嘶哑了，我喉咙里的每一块肌肉都疲惫不堪，徒劳地试图说服他们摆脱它。我把汤姆钉在了一个角落里，我告诉他，在完成指定的任务之前，他不应该逃跑。与此同时，范妮占有了我的工作包，正在翻动里面的东西——而且还向里面吐口水。我告诉她不要管它，但当然没有任何意义。 “烧掉它，范妮！”汤姆喊道，她赶紧遵守了这个命令。我跳起来把它从火里抓起来，汤姆冲到门口。 “玛丽·安，把她的桌子扔出窗外！”他喊道。我那珍贵的桌子，里面装着我的信件和文件，少量的现金，以及我所有的贵重物品，即将从三层楼的窗户上掉下来。我飞过去营救它。与此同时，汤姆离开了房间，冲下楼梯，范妮紧随其后。保护好我的办公桌后，我跑去追他们，玛丽·安也跟着跑了过来。三个人都逃脱了我的追捕，跑出了房子，跑到花园里，在雪地里跳来跳去，兴高采烈地大喊大叫。

What must I do? If I followed them, I should probably be unable to capture one, and only drive them farther away; if I did not, how was I to get them in? And what would their parents think of me, if they saw or heard the children rioting, hatless, bonnetless, gloveless, and bootless, in the deep soft snow? While I stood in this perplexity, just without the door, trying, by grim looks and angry words, to awe them into subjection, I heard a voice behind me, in harshly piercing tones, exclaiming, -
我必须做什么？如果我跟着他们，恐怕抓不到一只，只会把他们赶得更远；如果我不这样做，我该如何让他们进来？如果他们的父母看到或听到孩子们在柔软的深雪中不戴帽子、不戴帽子、不戴手套、也不穿靴子，他们会怎么看我？当我困惑地站在门外，试图用冷酷的表情和愤怒的言语来威慑他们时，我听到身后有一个声音，用刺耳的语气大声喊道：

‘Miss Grey! Is it possible? What, in the devil’s name, can you be thinking about?’
“格雷小姐！是否可以？看在魔鬼的份上，你到底在想什么？

‘I can’t get them in, sir,’ said I, turning round, and beholding Mr. Bloomfield, with his hair on end, and his pale blue eyes bolting from their sockets.
“我不能让他们进来，先生，”我说，转过身来，看到布卢姆菲尔德先生，他的头发竖起来，淡蓝色的眼睛从眼窝里瞪出来。

‘But I INSIST upon their being got in!’ cried he, approaching nearer, and looking perfectly ferocious.
“但我坚持让他们进来！”他喊道，走近了一些，看上去非常凶猛。

‘Then, sir, you must call them yourself, if you please, for they won’t listen to me,’ I replied, stepping back.
“那么，先生，如果您愿意的话，您必须亲自给他们打电话，因为他们不会听我的，”我回答道，后退了一步。

‘Come in with you, you filthy brats; or I’ll horsewhip you every one!’ roared he; and the children instantly obeyed. ‘There, you see!—they come at the first word!’
‘你们这些肮脏的小子，跟我进来吧；不然我就用马鞭抽你们一个个！”他咆哮道。孩子们立即服从了。 “瞧，你看！——他们一开口就来了！”

‘Yes, when YOU speak.’
“是的，当你说话的时候。”

‘And it’s very strange, that when you’ve the care of ‘em you’ve no better control over ‘em than that!—Now, there they are—gone upstairs with their nasty snowy feet! Do go after ‘em and see them made decent, for heaven’s sake!’
“非常奇怪的是，当你照顾它们时，你就无法比这更好地控制它们了！——现在，它们就在那里——踩着肮脏的雪脚上楼了！”看在老天爷的份上，一定要追随他们，让他们变得体面！”

That gentleman’s mother was then staying in the house; and, as I ascended the stairs and passed the drawing-room door, I had the satisfaction of hearing the old lady declaiming aloud to her daughter-in-law to this effect (for I could only distinguish the most emphatic words) -
那位先生的母亲当时住在屋里。当我走上楼梯，经过客厅门时，我很满意地听到老太太向她的儿媳大声朗诵着这样的大意（因为我只能听出最强调的词）——

‘Gracious heavens!—never in all my life—!—get their death as sure as—! Do you think, my dear, she’s a PROPER PERSON? Take my word for it—‘
“仁慈的老天！——我这辈子从来没有——！——让他们的死亡如此确定——！”亲爱的，你认为她是一个合适的人吗？相信我的话——”

I heard no more; but that sufficed.
我再也听不到了；但这就足够了。

The senior Mrs. Bloomfield had been very attentive and civil to me; and till now I had thought her a nice, kind-hearted, chatty old body. She would often come to me and talk in a confidential strain; nodding and shaking her head, and gesticulating with hands and eyes, as a certain class of old ladies are won’t to do; though I never knew one that carried the peculiarity to so great an extent. She would even sympathise with me for the trouble I had with the children, and express at times, by half sentences, interspersed with nods and knowing winks, her sense of the injudicious conduct of their mamma in so restricting my power, and neglecting to support me with her authority. Such a mode of testifying disapprobation was not much to my taste; and I generally refused to take it in, or understand anything more than was openly spoken; at least, I never went farther than an implied acknowledgment that, if matters were otherwise ordered my task would be a less difficult one, and I should be better able to guide and instruct my charge; but now I must be doubly cautious. Hitherto, though I saw the old lady had her defects (of which one was a proneness to proclaim her perfections), I had always been wishful to excuse them, and to give her credit for all the virtues she professed, and even imagine others yet untold. Kindness, which had been the food of my life through so many years, had lately been so entirely denied me, that I welcomed with grateful joy the slightest semblance of it. No wonder, then, that my heart warmed to the old lady, and always gladdened at her approach and regretted her departure.
老布卢姆菲尔德夫人对我非常殷勤和礼貌。直到现在我还一直认为她是一个善良、善良、健谈的老身体。她经常来找我，以一种保密的语气交谈。点头、摇头，用手和眼睛打手势，某些老太太不会这样做；尽管我从来不知道有哪一个能将这种独特性发挥到如此大的程度。她甚至会同情我和孩子们之间的麻烦，有时会用半句话，夹杂着点头和会意的眨眼，表达她对他们妈妈如此限制我的权力和忽视支持的不明智行为的感觉。我以她的权威。这种表达反对意见的方式不太合我的胃口。我通常拒绝接受它，或者理解任何比公开说的更多的事情。至少，我只是暗示承认，如果事情另有安排，我的任务就会不那么困难，而且我应该能够更好地指导和指导我的负责人；但现在我必须加倍小心。到目前为止，虽然我看到老太太有她的缺点（其中一个缺点是喜欢宣扬她的完美），但我总是一厢情愿地原谅这些缺点，并相信她所宣称的所有美德，甚至想象其他的美德不详。多年来，仁慈一直是我生命的食粮，但最近却完全被拒绝了，以至于我怀着感激的喜悦欢迎哪怕是哪怕一丝一毫的仁慈。难怪我的心对这位老太太感到温暖，总是为她的到来感到高兴，为她的离开而感到遗憾。

But now, the few words luckily or unluckily heard in passing had wholly revolutionized my ideas respecting her: now I looked upon her as hypocritical and insincere, a flatterer, and a spy upon my words and deeds. Doubtless it would have been my interest still to meet her with the same cheerful smile and tone of respectful cordiality as before; but I could not, if I would: my manner altered with my feelings, and became so cold and shy that she could not fail to notice it. She soon did notice it, and HER manner altered too: the familiar nod was changed to a stiff bow, the gracious smile gave place to a glare of Gorgon ferocity; her vivacious loquacity was entirely transferred from me to ‘the darling boy and girls,’ whom she flattered and indulged more absurdly than ever their mother had done.
但现在，偶然听到的几句话，无论是幸运还是不幸，都彻底改变了我对她的看法：现在我认为她虚伪、不真诚，是一个阿谀奉承者，是我言行的间谍。毫无疑问，我仍然有兴趣像以前一样带着愉快的微笑和恭敬诚恳的语气去见她；但我不能，如果我愿意的话：我的态度随着我的感情而改变，变得如此冷漠和害羞，以至于她不可能不注意到这一点。她很快就注意到了这一点，她的态度也发生了变化：熟悉的点头变成了僵硬的鞠躬，亲切的微笑被戈尔贡凶猛的目光所取代；她活泼的健谈完全从我身上转移到了“可爱的男孩和女孩”身上，她对他们的奉承和纵容比他们的母亲所做的更加荒唐。

I confess I was somewhat troubled at this change: I feared the consequences of her displeasure, and even made some efforts to recover the ground I had lost—and with better apparent success than I could have anticipated. At one time, I, merely in common civility, asked after her cough; immediately her long visage relaxed into a smile, and she favoured me with a particular history of that and her other infirmities, followed by an account of her pious resignation, delivered in the usual emphatic, declamatory style, which no writing can portray.
我承认我对这种变化感到有些困扰：我担心她的不满会带来什么后果，甚至做出了一些努力来收复我失去的土地——并且取得了比我预期更好的明显成功。有一次，我只是出于平常的礼貌，询问了她咳嗽的情况。她的长脸立即放松下来，露出微笑，她向我讲述了她的那段经历以及她的其他弱点，随后她以通常的强调、雄辩的风格讲述了她虔诚的辞职，这是任何文字都无法描述的。

‘But there’s one remedy for all, my dear, and that’s resignation’ (a toss of the head), ‘resignation to the will of heaven!’ (an uplifting of the hands and eyes). ‘It has always supported me through all my trials, and always will do’ (a succession of nods). ‘But then, it isn’t everybody that can say that’ (a shake of the head); ‘but I’m one of the pious ones, Miss Grey!’ (a very significant nod and toss). ‘And, thank heaven, I always was’ (another nod), ‘and I glory in it!’ (an emphatic clasping of the hands and shaking of the head). And with several texts of Scripture, misquoted or misapplied, and religious exclamations so redolent of the ludicrous in the style of delivery and manner of bringing in, if not in the expressions themselves, that I decline repeating them, she withdrew; tossing her large head in high goodhumour—with herself at least—and left me hoping that, after all, she was rather weak than wicked.
“但是，亲爱的，对所有人来说，只有一个补救办法，那就是听天由命”（摇头），“听天由命！”（举起手和眼睛）。 “它一直支持我度过所有的考验，而且永远都会如此”（连续点头）。 “但是，并不是每个人都能这么说”（摇头）； “但我是虔诚的人之一，格雷小姐！”（非常有意义的点头和抛掷）。 “感谢上帝，我一直都是”（再次点头），“我为此感到自豪！”（用力地握紧双手并摇头）。一些被错误引用或误用的圣经文本，以及宗教感叹词，在表达风格和引入方式上（如果不是表达本身的话）都让人联想到可笑的内容，以至于我拒绝重复它们，她退出了。她愉快地摇着她的大脑袋——至少是对她自己——让我希望她毕竟是软弱而不是邪恶的。

At her next visit to Wellwood House, I went so far as to say I was glad to see her looking so well. The effect of this was magical: the words, intended as a mark of civility, were received as a flattering compliment; her countenance brightened up, and from that moment she became as gracious and benign as heart could wish—in outward semblance at least. From what I now saw of her, and what I heard from the children, I know that, in order to gain her cordial friendship, I had but to utter a word of flattery at each convenient opportunity: but this was against my principles; and for lack of this, the capricious old dame soon deprived me of her favour again, and I believe did me much secret injury.
当她下次访问威尔伍德之家时，我什至说我很高兴看到她看起来这么好。这样做的效果是神奇的：这句话原本是为了表示礼貌，却被认为是一种奉承的恭维。她的脸色变得明亮起来，从那一刻起，她变得如内心所希望的那样亲切和仁慈——至少在外表上是这样。从我现在所看到的她，以及我从孩子们那里听到的情况来看，我知道，为了赢得她的真诚友谊，我只要一有机会就说一句阿谀奉承的话：但这违背了我的原则；由于缺乏这一点，反复无常的老太太很快又剥夺了我对我的宠爱，我相信这给我带来了很多秘密伤害。

She could not greatly influence her daughter-in-law against me, because, between that lady and herself there was a mutual dislike— chiefly shown by her in secret detractions and calumniations; by the other, in an excess of frigid formality in her demeanour; and no fawning flattery of the elder could thaw away the wall of ice which the younger interposed between them. But with her son, the old lady had better success: he would listen to all she had to say, provided she could soothe his fretful temper, and refrain from irritating him by her own asperities; and I have reason to believe that she considerably strengthened his prejudice against me. She would tell him that I shamefully neglected the children, and even his wife did not attend to them as she ought; and that he must look after them himself, or they would all go to ruin.
她无法极大地影响她的儿媳妇来反对我，因为，那位女士和她自己之间互相不喜欢——主要表现在她暗中的贬低和诽谤；另一个则表现出过分冷漠的拘谨；长辈的阿谀奉承也无法融化小辈隔在他们之间的冰墙。但对于儿子，老太太却比较成功：只要她能安抚儿子烦躁的脾气，不让自己的粗暴激怒他，他就会听她说的一切。我有理由相信她大大加深了他对我的偏见。她会告诉他，我可耻地忽视了孩子们，甚至他的妻子也没有照顾好他们。他必须亲自照顾他们，否则他们都会破产。

Thus urged, he would frequently give himself the trouble of watching them from the windows during their play; at times, he would follow them through the grounds, and too often came suddenly upon them while they were dabbling in the forbidden well, talking to the coachman in the stables, or revelling in the filth of the farm-yard—and I, meanwhile, wearily standing, by, having previously exhausted my energy in vain attempts to get them away. Often, too, he would unexpectedly pop his head into the schoolroom while the young people were at meals, and find them spilling their milk over the table and themselves, plunging their fingers into their own or each other’s mugs, or quarrelling over their victuals like a set of tiger’s cubs. If I were quiet at the moment, I was conniving at their disorderly conduct; if (as was frequently the case) I happened to be exalting my voice to enforce order, I was using undue violence, and setting the girls a bad example by such ungentleness of tone and language.
在他们的催促下，他常常不厌其烦地从窗户里观察他们玩耍的情况。有时，他会跟着他们穿过庭院，常常在他们涉足禁井、在马厩里与马车夫交谈、或陶醉在农家院子的污秽中时，他突然出现在他们身上——而我，与此同时我疲倦地站在一旁，之前我已经耗尽了我的精力，但徒劳地试图把他们赶走。也常常，当年轻人吃饭时，他会出人意料地把头伸进教室，发现他们把牛奶洒在桌子上和自己身上，把手指伸进自己或彼此的杯子里，或者为食物争吵，比如一群老虎的幼崽如果我此刻保持沉默，我就是在纵容他们的不检点行为；如果（经常发生这种情况）我碰巧提高了自己的声音来执行秩序，那么我就使用了不当的暴力，并通过如此不温柔的语气和语言给女孩们树立了坏榜样。

I remember one afternoon in spring, when, owing to the rain, they could not go out; but, by some amazing good fortune, they had all finished their lessons, and yet abstained from running down to tease their parents—a trick that annoyed me greatly, but which, on rainy days, I seldom could prevent their doing; because, below, they found novelty and amusement—especially when visitors were in the house; and their mother, though she bid me keep them in the schoolroom, would never chide them for leaving it, or trouble herself to send them back. But this day they appeared satisfied with, their present abode, and what is more wonderful still, seemed disposed to play together without depending on me for amusement, and without quarrelling with each other. Their occupation was a somewhat puzzling one: they were all squatted together on the floor by the window, over a heap of broken toys and a quantity of birds’ eggs—or rather egg-shells, for the contents had luckily been abstracted. These shells they had broken up and were pounding into small fragments, to what end I could not imagine; but so long as they were quiet and not in positive mischief, I did not care; and, with a feeling of unusual repose, I sat by the fire, putting the finishing stitches to a frock for Mary Ann’s doll; intending, when that was done, to begin a letter to my mother. Suddenly the door opened, and the dingy head of Mr. Bloomfield looked in.
记得春天的一个下午，由于下雨，他们不能出去。但是，幸运的是，他们都完成了功课，却没有跑下来取笑他们的父母——这种伎俩让我非常恼火，但在下雨天，我很少能阻止他们这样做；但他们的表现却是惊人的。因为，在下面，他们发现了新奇和娱乐——尤其是当访客来到房子里时；他们的母亲虽然吩咐我把他们留在教室里，却绝不会因为他们离开教室而责备他们，也不会费心把他们送回去。但这一天，他们似乎对现在的住所很满意，更美妙的是，他们似乎愿意一起玩耍，而不需要依赖我来娱乐，也不会互相争吵。他们的职业有些令人费解：他们都蹲在窗边的地板上，周围是一堆破玩具和一些鸟蛋——或者更确切地说是蛋壳，因为幸运的是里面的东西已经被提取出来了。这些炮弹被它们打碎，砸成小碎片，我无法想象它们的目的是什么；但只要他们安静，不搞恶作剧，我就不在乎。我怀着一种不同寻常的平静感，坐在火边，为玛丽·安的洋娃娃缝制一件连衣裙。打算等这一切完成后，开始给我母亲写一封信。突然门开了，布卢姆菲尔德先生那肮脏的脑袋探了进来。

‘All very quiet here! What are you doing?’ said he. ‘No harm TODAY, at least,’ thought I. But he was of a different opinion. Advancing to the window, and seeing the children’s occupations, he testily exclaimed—‘What in the world are you about?’
‘这里非常安静！你在做什么？”他说。我想：“至少今天没有什么坏处。”但他却有不同的看法。他走到窗前，看到孩子们在忙什么，不耐烦地喊道：“你们到底在搞什么鬼？”

‘We’re grinding egg-shells, papa!’ cried Tom.
“我们正在磨蛋壳，爸爸！”汤姆喊道。

‘How DARE you make such a mess, you little devils? Don’t you see what confounded work you’re making of the carpet?’ (the carpet was a plain brown drugget). ‘Miss Grey, did you know what they were doing?’
‘你们这些小恶魔，怎么敢把事情弄得这么乱？难道你没看到你对地毯做了什么令人困惑的工作吗？”（地毯是普通的棕色毒品）。 “格雷小姐，你知道他们在做什么吗？”

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

‘You knew it?’
“你知道吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘You knew it! and you actually sat there and permitted them to go on without a word of reproof!’
‘你知道的！而你居然坐在那里，让他们继续前进，没有一句责备的话！

‘I didn’t think they were doing any harm.’
“我认为他们没有造成任何伤害。”

‘Any harm! Why, look there! Just look at that carpet, and see— was there ever anything like it in a Christian house before? No wonder your room is not fit for a pigsty—no wonder your pupils are worse than a litter of pigs!—no wonder—oh! I declare, it puts me quite past my patience’ and he departed, shutting the door after him with a bang that made the children laugh.
‘有什么伤害吗！为什么，看那儿！看看那块地毯，看看——以前基督教家里有过类似的东西吗？难怪你的房间不适合做猪圈，难怪你的学生比一窝猪还不如！难怪啊！我敢说，这让我完全失去了耐心。”说完他就走了，砰地一声关上了身后的门，逗得孩子们哈哈大笑。

‘It puts me quite past my patience too!’ muttered I, getting up; and, seizing the poker, I dashed it repeatedly into the cinders, and stirred them up with unwonted energy; thus easing my irritation under pretence of mending the fire.
“这也让我完全失去了耐心！”我低声说道，站了起来。我抓起拨火棍，不断地把它扔进煤渣里，用不寻常的力量搅动它们。以此来缓解我以补火为借口的恼怒。

After this, Mr. Bloomfield was continually looking in to see if the schoolroom was in order; and, as the children were continually littering the floor with fragments of toys, sticks, stones, stubble, leaves, and other rubbish, which I could not prevent their bringing, or oblige them to gather up, and which the servants refused to ‘clean after them,’ I had to spend a considerable portion of my valuable leisure moments on my knees upon the floor, in painsfully reducing things to order. Once I told them that they should not taste their supper till they had picked up everything from the carpet; Fanny might have hers when she had taken up a certain quantity, Mary Ann when she had gathered twice as many, and Tom was to clear away the rest. Wonderful to state, the girls did their part; but Tom was in such a fury that he flew upon the table, scattered the bread and milk about the floor, struck his sisters, kicked the coals out of the coal-pan, attempted to overthrow the table and chairs, and seemed inclined to make a Douglas-larder of the whole contents of the room: but I seized upon him, and, sending Mary Ann to call her mamma, held him, in spite of kicks, blows, yells, and execrations, till Mrs. Bloomfield made her appearance.
此后，布卢姆菲尔德先生不断地查看教室是否整洁。而且，由于孩子们不断地把玩具碎片、棍棒、石头、残茬、树叶和其他垃圾扔在地板上，我无法阻止他们带来这些东西，也无法强迫他们收集起来，而仆人拒绝“清理”在他们之后，”我不得不把相当大一部分宝贵的闲暇时间花在跪在地板上，费尽心思地把事情整理得井井有条。有一次我告诉他们，在把地毯上的所有东西都捡起来之前，他们不应该品尝晚餐。当范妮收集到一定数量时，她可能会得到她的；当她收集到两倍的数量时，玛丽安可能会得到她的；而汤姆则要清理其余的。令人高兴的是，女孩们尽了自己的一份力量。但汤姆勃然大怒，他飞到桌子上，把面包和牛奶撒了一地，还打了他的姐妹们，把煤锅里的煤踢了出去，试图推倒桌子和椅子，而且似乎想房间里所有东西的道格拉斯储藏室：但我抓住了他，并派玛丽·安叫她妈妈，不顾踢、打、喊叫和咒骂，抓住了他，直到布卢姆菲尔德太太出现。 。

‘What is the matter with my boy?’ said she.
“我的儿子怎么了？”她说。

And when the matter was explained to her, all she did was to send for the nursery-maid to put the room in order, and bring Master Bloomfield his supper.
当事情向她解释清楚后，她所做的只是派人去叫保姆来整理房间，并给布卢姆菲尔德少爷送来晚饭。

‘There now,’ cried Tom, triumphantly, looking up from his viands with his mouth almost too full for speech. ‘There now, Miss Grey! you see I’ve got my supper in spite of you: and I haven’t picked up a single thing!’
“好了，”汤姆得意地喊道，他从食物中抬起头，嘴巴几乎塞得说不出话来。 “现在就这样，格雷小姐！你看，尽管你不顾我，我还是吃完了晚饭：但我什么也没拿！”

The only person in the house who had any real sympathy for me was the nurse; for she had suffered like afflictions, though in a smaller degree; as she had not the task of teaching, nor was she so responsible for the conduct of her charge.
家里唯一真正同情我的人就是护士。因为她也曾遭受过类似的痛苦，尽管程度较小。因为她没有教学任务，也没有对其所负责的行为负责。

‘Oh, Miss Grey!’ she would say, ‘you have some trouble with them childer!’
“哦，格雷小姐！”她会说，“孩子们，你和他们之间有些麻烦！”

‘I have, indeed, Betty; and I daresay you know what it is.’
“我确实有贝蒂；我敢说你知道那是什么。

‘Ay, I do so! But I don’t vex myself o’er ‘em as you do. And then, you see, I hit ‘em a slap sometimes: and them little ‘uns—I gives ‘em a good whipping now and then: there’s nothing else will do for ‘em, as what they say. Howsoever, I’ve lost my place for it.’
‘哎呀，我就是这么做的！但我不会像你那样让自己烦恼。然后，你看，我有时会打他们一巴掌：而他们这些小家伙——我时不时地狠狠地鞭打他们：正如他们所说，对他们来说，没有什么别的办法了。然而，我已经失去了我的位置。

‘Have you, Betty? I heard you were going to leave.’
“你有吗，贝蒂？我听说你要走了。

‘Eh, bless you, yes! Missis gave me warning a three wik sin’. She told me afore Christmas how it mud be, if I hit ‘em again; but I couldn’t hold my hand off ‘em at nothing. I know not how YOU do, for Miss Mary Ann’s worse by the half nor her sisters!’
‘嗯，祝福你，是的！米西斯警告我三线罪过。圣诞节前她告诉我，如果我再打他们，结果会怎样；但我却无法把手从他们身上移开。我不知道你怎么样，因为玛丽安小姐和她的姐妹们都更糟！

CHAPTER V—THE UNCLE
第五章叔叔

Besides the old lady, there was another relative of the family, whose visits were a great annoyance to me—this was ‘Uncle Robson,’ Mrs. Bloomfield’s brother; a tall, self-sufficient fellow, with dark hair and sallow complexion like his sister, a nose that seemed to disdain the earth, and little grey eyes, frequently half-closed, with a mixture of real stupidity and affected contempt of all surrounding objects. He was a thick-set, strongly-built man, but he had found some means of compressing his waist into a remarkably small compass; and that, together with the unnatural stillness of his form, showed that the lofty-minded, manly Mr. Robson, the scorner of the female sex, was not above the foppery of stays. He seldom deigned to notice me; and, when he did, it was with a certain supercilious insolence of tone and manner that convinced me he was no gentleman: though it was intended to have a contrary effect. But it was not for that I disliked his coming, so much as for the harm he did the children—encouraging all their evil propensities, and undoing in a few minutes the little good it had taken me months of labour to achieve.
除了老太太之外，家里还有一位亲戚，他的来访让我很烦恼——他就是“罗布森叔叔”，布卢姆菲尔德夫人的弟弟；一个高大、自给自足的家伙，和他姐姐一样，有着黑发和蜡黄的肤色，鼻子似乎蔑视大地，灰色的小眼睛时常半闭着，夹杂着真正的愚蠢和对周围一切事物的假装蔑视。他是个身材粗壮的人，但他找到了一些方法，可以将自己的腰部压缩成一个非常小的罗盘；再加上他那不自然的静止姿态，都表明这位心胸高尚、有男子气概的罗布森先生，这位蔑视女性的人，也并不高尚。他很少屈尊注意到我。当他这样做时，他的语气和态度中带着某种傲慢无礼的态度，让我确信他不是一位绅士：尽管他的目的是产生相反的效果。但这并不是因为我不喜欢他的到来，而是因为他对孩子们造成了伤害——助长了他们所有的邪恶倾向，并在几分钟之内毁掉了我花了几个月的努力才取得的一点点好处。

Fanny and little Harriet he seldom condescended to notice; but Mary Ann was something of a favourite. He was continually encouraging her tendency to affectation (which I had done my utmost to crush), talking about her pretty face, and filling her head with all manner of conceited notions concerning her personal appearance (which I had instructed her to regard as dust in the balance compared with the cultivation of her mind and manners); and I never saw a child so susceptible of flattery as she was. Whatever was wrong, in either her or her brother, he would encourage by laughing at, if not by actually praising: people little know the injury they do to children by laughing at their faults, and making a pleasant jest of what their true friends have endeavoured to teach them to hold in grave abhorrence.
他很少屈尊去注意范妮和小哈丽特。但玛丽·安是最受欢迎的。他不断地鼓励她的矫揉造作的倾向（我已尽全力粉碎了这种倾向），谈论她漂亮的脸蛋，并让她的头脑充满了关于她的个人外表的各种自负的想法（我指示她将其视为灰尘）与她的思想和举止的修养相比的平衡）；我从来没有见过像她这样容易受人奉承的孩子。无论她或她的兄弟出了什么问题，他都会通过嘲笑来鼓励，即使不是真正的赞扬：人们很少知道，嘲笑孩子们的错误，并取笑他们真正的朋友的所作所为，对他们造成了伤害。努力教导他们保持深深的憎恶。

Though not a positive drunkard, Mr. Robson habitually swallowed great quantities of wine, and took with relish an occasional glass of brandy and water. He taught his nephew to imitate him in this to the utmost of his ability, and to believe that the more wine and spirits he could take, and the better he liked them, the more he manifested his bold, and manly spirit, and rose superior to his sisters. Mr. Bloomfield had not much to say against it, for his favourite beverage was gin and water; of which he took a considerable portion every day, by dint of constant sipping—and to that I chiefly attributed his dingy complexion and waspish temper.
罗布森先生虽然不是一个十足的酒鬼，但他还是习惯性地喝下大量的酒，偶尔还津津有味地喝一杯白兰地和水。他教他的侄子在这方面尽其所能地效仿他，并相信他喝的酒和烈酒越多，他越喜欢，他就越能表现出他的大胆和男子气概，并获得优越感。给他的姐妹们。布卢姆菲尔德先生并没有太多反对的意见，因为他最喜欢的饮料是杜松子酒和水。他每天都会不断地啜饮，喝掉相当大一部分——这主要归因于他脸色黝黑和脾气暴躁。

Mr. Robson likewise encouraged Tom’s propensity to persecute the lower creation, both by precept and example. As he frequently came to course or shoot over his brother-in-law’s grounds, he would bring his favourite dogs with him; and he treated them so brutally that, poor as I was, I would have given a sovereign any day to see one of them bite him, provided the animal could have done it with impunity. Sometimes, when in a very complacent mood, he would go a-birds’-nesting with the children, a thing that irritated and annoyed me exceedingly; as, by frequent and persevering attempts, I flattered myself I had partly shown them the evil of this pastime, and hoped, in time, to bring them to some general sense of justice and humanity; but ten minutes’ birds’-nesting with uncle Robson, or even a laugh from him at some relation of their former barbarities, was sufficient at once to destroy the effect of my whole elaborate course of reasoning and persuasion. Happily, however, during that spring, they never, but once, got anything but empty nests, or eggs—being too impatient to leave them till the birds were hatched; that once, Tom, who had been with his uncle into the neighbouring plantation, came running in high glee into the garden, with a brood of little callow nestlings in his hands. Mary Ann and Fanny, whom I was just bringing out, ran to admire his spoils, and to beg each a bird for themselves. ‘No, not one!’ cried Tom. ‘They’re all mine; uncle Robson gave them to me—one, two, three, four, five—you shan’t touch one of them! no, not one, for your lives!’ continued he, exultingly; laying the nest on the ground, and standing over it with his legs wide apart, his hands thrust into his breeches-pockets, his body bent forward, and his face twisted into all manner of contortions in the ecstasy of his delight.
罗布森先生同样通过言传身教鼓励汤姆迫害低等生物的倾向。由于他经常来他姐夫的球场上打球或打球，所以他会带着他最喜欢的狗。他对待它们是如此残酷，以至于，尽管我很穷，如果有一天看到它们咬他，我愿意给一个金镑，只要这只动物可以不受惩罚地这样做。有时，当他心情非常得意时，他会带着孩子们去鸟巢，这让我非常恼火和恼火。因为，通过频繁而坚持不懈的尝试，我自以为已经部分地向他们展示了这种消遣的邪恶之处，并希望及时地使他们获得某种普遍的正义感和人性感。但是，与罗布森叔叔的十分钟鸟巢，甚至是他对他们以前的野蛮行径的嘲笑，都足以立即破坏我精心设计的推理和说服过程的效果。然而令人高兴的是，在那个春天，除了一次，他们除了空巢或鸡蛋之外什么也没有得到——他们太不耐烦了，在鸟儿孵化之前不肯离开它们；有一次，汤姆和叔叔一起去了附近的种植园，高兴地跑进花园，手里拿着一窝稚嫩的雏鸟。我刚带出来的玛丽·安和范妮跑去欣赏他的战利品，并为自己讨一只鸟。 “不，没有一个！”汤姆喊道。 ‘他们都是我的；罗布森叔叔把它们给了我——一个、两个、三个、四个、五个——你不能碰其中一个！不，没有一个，为了你们的生命！’他兴高采烈地继续说道。他把鸟巢放在地上，双腿分开站在鸟巢上，双手插在裤兜里，身体前倾，脸因喜悦而扭曲成各种扭曲。

‘But you shall see me fettle ‘em off. My word, but I WILL wallop ‘em? See if I don’t now. By gum! but there’s rare sport for me in that nest.’
“但你会看到我把它们解决掉。”我保证，但我会痛击他们？看看我现在不会。靠口香糖！但在那个巢里对我来说有很少的运动。”

‘But, Tom,’ said I, ‘I shall not allow you to torture those birds. They must either be killed at once or carried back to the place you took them from, that the old birds may continue to feed them.’
“但是，汤姆，”我说，“我不会允许你折磨那些鸟。”它们必须立即被杀死，或者带回你带走它们的地方，以便老鸟可以继续喂养它们。

‘But you don’t know where that is, Madam: it’s only me and uncle Robson that knows that.’
“但是您不知道那在哪里，女士：只有我和罗布森叔叔知道。”

‘But if you don’t tell me, I shall kill them myself—much as I hate it.’
“但如果你不告诉我，我就会亲手杀掉他们——尽管我很讨厌这样。”

‘You daren’t. You daren’t touch them for your life! because you know papa and mamma, and uncle Robson, would be angry. Ha, ha! I’ve caught you there, Miss!’
‘你不敢。你这辈子都不敢碰它们！因为你知道爸爸、妈妈和罗布森叔叔会生气的。哈哈！我在那里抓住你了，小姐！

‘I shall do what I think right in a case of this sort without consulting any one. If your papa and mamma don’t happen to approve of it, I shall be sorry to offend them; but your uncle Robson’s opinions, of course, are nothing to me.’
“在这种情况下，我会做我认为正确的事情，而不需要咨询任何人。如果你的爸爸和妈妈不同意的话，我很抱歉冒犯他们；但你叔叔罗布森的意见当然对我来说毫无意义。

So saying—urged by a sense of duty—at the risk of both making myself sick and incurring the wrath of my employers—I got a large flat stone, that had been reared up for a mouse-trap by the gardener; then, having once more vainly endeavoured to persuade the little tyrant to let the birds be carried back, I asked what he intended to do with them. With fiendish glee he commenced a list of torments; and while he was busied in the relation, I dropped the stone upon his intended victims and crushed them flat beneath it. Loud were the outcries, terrible the execrations, consequent upon this daring outrage; uncle Robson had been coming up the walk with his gun, and was just then pausing to kick his dog. Tom flew towards him, vowing he would make him kick me instead of Juno. Mr. Robson leant upon his gun, and laughed excessively at the violence of his nephew’s passion, and the bitter maledictions and opprobrious epithets he heaped upon me. ‘Well, you ARE a good ‘un!’ exclaimed he, at length, taking up his weapon and proceeding towards the house. ‘Damme, but the lad has some spunk in him, too. Curse me, if ever I saw a nobler little scoundrel than that. He’s beyond petticoat government already: by God! he defies mother, granny, governess, and all! Ha, ha, ha! Never mind, Tom, I’ll get you another brood to-morrow.’
于是，在责任感的驱使下，冒着让自己生病和招致雇主愤怒的风险，我得到了一块大而平坦的石头，那是园丁为捕鼠器而立起来的；然后，我再次徒劳地试图说服小暴君让鸟儿被带回来，我问他打算如何处理它们。他带着恶魔般的喜悦开始列出一系列的折磨。当他忙着搞关系的时候，我把石头扔到了他想要的受害者身上，把他们压扁在石头下面。由于这种大胆的暴行，引起了大声的抗议和可怕的咒骂。罗布森叔叔正拿着枪沿着人行道走来，就在这时停下来踢他的狗。汤姆飞向他，发誓要让他踢我而不是朱诺。罗布森先生靠在枪上，对他侄子的强烈热情以及他对我的尖酸刻薄的咒骂和侮辱性的绰号大笑起来。 “好吧，你真是个好人！”他终于喊道，拿起武器朝房子走去。 “该死，但这小伙子也有勇气。”诅咒我，如果我见过比他更高贵的小恶棍。他已经超越了衬裙政府：上帝啊！他藐视母亲、奶奶、家庭女教师以及所有人！哈哈哈！没关系，汤姆，明天我会给你再养一窝。”

‘If you do, Mr. Robson, I shall kill them too,’ said I.
“如果你这样做，罗布森先生，我也会杀了他们，”我说。

‘Humph!’ replied he, and having honoured me with a broad stare— which, contrary to his expectations, I sustained without flinchinghe turned away with an air of supreme contempt, and stalked into the house. Tom next went to tell his mamma. It was not her way to say much on any subject; but, when she next saw me, her aspect and demeanour were doubly dark and chilled. After some casual remark about the weather, she observed—‘I am sorry, Miss Grey, you should think it necessary to interfere with Master Bloomfield’s amusements; he was very much distressed about your destroying the birds.’
“哼！”他回答道，并用大大的目光注视着我——出乎他的意料，我毫不退缩地坚持了下来，他带着极度轻蔑的神情转过身去，大步走进了屋子。汤姆接下来去告诉他妈妈。她不喜欢在任何话题上说太多话。但是，当她下次见到我时，她的神情和举止却加倍阴暗和冰冷。在随意谈论了天气之后，她说道：“对不起，格雷小姐，你应该认为有必要干扰布卢姆菲尔德少爷的娱乐活动；但是，我不想打扰你。”他对你毁掉这些鸟儿感到非常难过。”

‘When Master Bloomfield’s amusements consist in injuring sentient creatures,’ I answered, ‘I think it my duty to interfere.’
“当布卢姆菲尔德大师的娱乐在于伤害有知觉的生物时，”我回答道，“我认为我有责任干涉。”

‘You seemed to have forgotten,’ said she, calmly, ‘that the creatures were all created for our convenience.’
“你似乎忘记了，”她平静地说，“这些生物都是为了我们的方便而创造的。”

I thought that doctrine admitted some doubt, but merely replied— ‘If they were, we have no right to torment them for our amusement.’
我认为这个教义承认了一些疑问，但只是回答说：“如果是的话，我们就没有权利为了娱乐而折磨他们。”

‘I think,’ said she, ‘a child’s amusement is scarcely to be weighed against the welfare of a soulless brute.’
“我认为，”她说，“一个孩子的娱乐与一个没有灵魂的畜生的福祉相比根本不值一提。”

‘But, for the child’s own sake, it ought not to be encouraged to have such amusements,’ answered I, as meekly as I could, to make up for such unusual pertinacity. ‘“Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.‘‘
“但是，为了孩子本身的缘故，不应该鼓励他们有这样的娱乐，”我尽可能温顺地回答，以弥补这种不寻常的固执。 “仁慈的人有福了，因为他们必蒙仁慈。”

‘Oh! of course; but that refers to our conduct towards each other.’
'哦！当然;但这指的是我们对彼此的行为。”

‘’The merciful man shows mercy to his beast,‘‘ I ventured to add.
“仁慈的人会怜悯他的野兽，”我斗胆补充道。

‘I think YOU have not shown much mercy,’ replied she, with a short, bitter laugh; ‘killing the poor birds by wholesale in that shocking manner, and putting the dear boy to such misery for a mere whim.’
“我认为你并没有表现出太多的怜悯，”她回答道，短促而苦涩地笑了一声。 “以那种令人震惊的方式大量捕杀可怜的鸟儿，仅仅因为一时兴起就让亲爱的男孩陷入如此痛苦的境地。”

I judged it prudent to say no more. This was the nearest approach to a quarrel I ever had with Mrs. Bloomfield; as well as the greatest number of words I ever exchanged with her at one time, since the day of my first arrival.
我认为谨慎起见，不再多说。这是我和布卢姆菲尔德太太最接近争吵的一次。也是自我第一次到达那天以来，我与她交谈过的最多的话。

But Mr. Robson and old Mrs. Bloomfield were not the only guests whose coming to Wellwood House annoyed me; every visitor disturbed me more or less; not so much because they neglected me (though I did feel their conduct strange and disagreeable in that respect), as because I found it impossible to keep my pupils away from them, as I was repeatedly desired to do: Tom must talk to them, and Mary Ann must be noticed by them. Neither the one nor the other knew what it was to feel any degree of shamefacedness, or even common modesty. They would indecently and clamorously interrupt the conversation of their elders, tease them with the most impertinent questions, roughly collar the gentlemen, climb their knees uninvited, hang about their shoulders or rifle their pockets, pull the ladies’ gowns, disorder their hair, tumble their collars, and importunately beg for their trinkets.
但是，罗布森先生和布卢姆菲尔德老太太并不是唯一来到威尔伍德庄园让我恼火的客人；他们也不是唯一的客人。每个访客都或多或少地打扰了我；并不是因为他们忽视了我（尽管我确实觉得他们在这方面的行为很奇怪和令人不快），而是因为我发现不可能让我的学生远离他们，正如我一再希望做的那样：汤姆必须与他们交谈，而玛丽安一定会被他们注意到。两人都不知道什么是感到某种程度的羞愧，甚至是普遍的谦虚。他们会粗鲁地、吵闹地打断长辈的谈话，用最无礼的问题来取笑他们，粗鲁地套住绅士们的衣领，不请自来地爬上长辈的膝盖，挂在长辈的肩膀上或掏枪掏口袋，拉扯女士的长袍，弄乱她们的头发，摔倒。他们的衣领，并强求他们的小饰品。

Mrs. Bloomfield had the sense to be shocked and annoyed at all this, but she had not sense to prevent it: she expected me to prevent it. But how could I—when the guests, with their fine clothes and new faces, continually flattered and indulged them, out of complaisance to their parents—how could I, with my homely garments, every-day face, and honest words, draw them away? I strained every nerve to do so: by striving to amuse them, I endeavoured to attract them to my side; by the exertion of such authority as I possessed, and by such severity as I dared to use, I tried to deter them from tormenting the guests; and by reproaching their unmannerly conduct, to make them ashamed to repeat it. But they knew no shame; they scorned authority which had no terrors to back it; and as for kindness and affection, either they had no hearts, or such as they had were so strongly guarded, and so well concealed, that I, with all my efforts, had not yet discovered how to reach them.
布卢姆菲尔德夫人对这一切感到震惊和恼怒，但她没有意识到要阻止它：她希望我阻止它。可是，客人们穿着华美的衣服，新的面孔，出于对父母的恭维，不断地奉承、迁就他们，我又怎能以朴素的衣着、平常的面孔、诚实的言语来吸引他们呢？离开？我竭尽全力地这样做：通过努力取悦他们，我努力将他们吸引到我身边；我运用我所拥有的权威和我敢于使用的严厉手段，试图阻止他们折磨客人。并责备他们的无礼行为，使他们羞于重蹈覆辙。但他们不知羞耻；他们蔑视没有恐惧作后盾的权威。至于仁慈和感情，要么是他们没有心，要么是他们的心被严密地保护着，隐藏得很好，以至于我尽管尽了最大的努力，仍然没有找到如何触及他们的方法。

But soon my trials in this quarter came to a close—sooner than I either expected or desired; for one sweet evening towards the close of May, as I was rejoicing in the near approach of the holidays, and congratulating myself upon having made some progress with my pupils (as far as their learning went, at least, for I HAD instilled SOMETHING into their heads, and I had, at length, brought them to be a little—a very little—more rational about getting their lessons done in time to leave some space for recreation, instead of tormenting themselves and me all day long to no purpose), Mrs. Bloomfield sent for me, and calmly told me that after Midsummer my services would be no longer required. She assured me that my character and general conduct were unexceptionable; but the children had made so little improvement since my arrival that Mr. Bloomfield and she felt it their duty to seek some other mode of instruction. Though superior to most children of their years in abilities, they were decidedly behind them in attainments; their manners were uncultivated, and their tempers unruly. And this she attributed to a want of sufficient firmness, and diligent, persevering care on my part.
但很快我在本季度的考验就结束了——比我预期或希望的要早；五月底的一个甜蜜的夜晚，我为假期的临近而感到高兴，并祝贺自己与我的学生取得了一些进步（至少就他们的学习而言，因为我已经向他们灌输了一些东西）他们的头脑，我最终让他们变得更加理性一点——一点点——及时完成功课，留出一些娱乐空间，而不是整天毫无意义地折磨自己和我） ，布卢姆菲尔德夫人派人来找我，平静地告诉我，仲夏节过后就不再需要我的服务了。她向我保证，我的性格和一般行为都无可挑剔。但自从我到来以来，孩子们进步甚微，布卢姆菲尔德先生和她觉得他们有责任寻求其他的教学方式。尽管他们在能力上优于大多数同龄孩子，但在成就上却明显落后于他们。他们的举止不文明，脾气暴躁。她将此归因于我不够坚定、勤奋、坚持不懈的关怀。

Unshaken firmness, devoted diligence, unwearied perseverance, unceasing care, were the very qualifications on which I had secretly prided myself; and by which I had hoped in time to overcome all difficulties, and obtain success at last. I wished to say something in my own justification; but in attempting to speak, I felt my voice falter; and rather than testify any emotion, or suffer the tears to overflow that were already gathering in my eyes, I chose to keep silence, and bear all like a self-convicted culprit.
坚定不移的坚定、全心全意的勤奋、不知疲倦的毅力、不断的关怀，这些正是我暗自自豪的品质。我希望能够及时克服一切困难，最终取得成功。我想为我自己说点什么；但当我试图说话时，我感觉自己的声音有些颤抖。我没有表露任何情绪，也没有让已经在眼眶里积聚的泪水溢出，而是选择保持沉默，像一个自责的罪魁祸首一样承受一切。

Thus was I dismissed, and thus I sought my home. Alas! what would they think of me? unable, after all my boasting, to keep my place, even for a single year, as governess to three small children, whose mother was asserted by my own aunt to be a ‘very nice woman.’ Having been thus weighed in the balance and found wanting, I need not hope they would be willing to try me again. And this was an unwelcome thought; for vexed, harassed, disappointed as I had been, and greatly as I had learned to love and value my home, I was not yet weary of adventure, nor willing to relax my efforts. I knew that all parents were not like Mr. and Mrs. Bloomfield, and I was certain all children were not like theirs. The next family must be different, and any change must be for the better. I had been seasoned by adversity, and tutored by experience, and I longed to redeem my lost honour in the eyes of those whose opinion was more than that of all the world to me.
我就这样被解雇了，我就这样寻找我的家。唉!他们会怎么看我？在我吹嘘完之后，我无法保住我作为三个小孩的家庭教师的地位，哪怕是一年，而我的姨妈称他们的母亲是一个“非常好的女人”。发现不足，我不需要希望他们愿意再次尝试我。这是一个不受欢迎的想法。尽管我曾经感到烦恼、困扰、失望，尽管我已经学会了热爱和珍惜我的家，但我仍然没有厌倦冒险，也不愿意放松我的努力。我知道并非所有的父母都像布卢姆菲尔德先生和夫人，我也确信并非所有的孩子都像他们的孩子。下一个家庭一定会有所不同，任何改变都一定会变得更好。我经历过逆境，接受过经验的教导，我渴望在那些对我来说比全世界都更重要的人眼中挽回我失去的荣誉。

CHAPTER VI—THE PARSONAGE AGAIN
第六章 牧师住宅

For a few months I remained peaceably at home, in the quiet enjoyment of liberty and rest, and genuine friendship, from all of which I had fasted so long; and in the earnest prosecution of my studies, to recover what I had lost during my stay at Wellwood House, and to lay in new stores for future use. My father’s health was still very infirm, but not materially worse than when I last saw him; and I was glad I had it in my power to cheer him by my return, and to amuse him with singing his favourite songs.
几个月来，我平静地待在家里，安静地享受着自由、休息和真诚的友谊，而这一切都是我禁食已久的。并认真地进行我的学业，以恢复我在韦尔伍德之家逗留期间所失去的东西，并铺设新的商店以供将来使用。我父亲的健康状况仍然很虚弱，但并不比我上次见到他时严重。我很高兴我有能力在我回来时为他欢呼，并用唱他最喜欢的歌曲来逗他开心。

No one triumphed over my failure, or said I had better have taken his or her advice, and quietly stayed at home. All were glad to have me back again, and lavished more kindness than ever upon me, to make up for the sufferings I had undergone; but not one would touch a shilling of what I had so cheerfully earned and so carefully saved, in the hope of sharing it with them. By dint of pinching here, and scraping there, our debts were already nearly paid. Mary had had good success with her drawings; but our father had insisted upon HER likewise keeping all the produce of her industry to herself. All we could spare from the supply of our humble wardrobe and our little casual expenses, he directed us to put into the savings’-bank; saying, we knew not how soon we might be dependent on that alone for support: for he felt he had not long to be with us, and what would become of our mother and us when he was gone, God only knew!
没有人战胜我的失败，也没有人说我最好听从他或她的建议，安静地呆在家里。大家都很高兴我能再次回来，并且比以往更加慷慨地对待我，以弥补我所遭受的痛苦。但没有人愿意碰我如此高兴地赚来的、如此小心翼翼地攒下来的一先令，希望与他们分享。这边掐，那边刮，我们的债已经还得差不多了。玛丽的绘画取得了巨大成功。但我们的父亲坚持要求她同样将所有工业产品留给自己。他指示我们把我们简陋的衣柜和零星的零花钱中剩下的一切都存入储蓄银行。说，我们不知道多久我们就会依靠这个来维持生活：因为他觉得他和我们在一起的时间不长了，而当他离开后，我们的母亲和我们会变成什么样子，只有上帝知道！

Dear papa! if he had troubled himself less about the afflictions that threatened us in case of his death, I am convinced that dreaded event would not have taken place so soon. My mother would never suffer him to ponder on the subject if she could help it.
亲爱的爸爸！如果他不那么担心他死后威胁我们的痛苦，我相信可怕的事件就不会这么快发生。如果我母亲可以的话，她绝对不会让他思考这个问题。

‘Oh, Richard!’ exclaimed she, on one occasion, ‘if you would but dismiss such gloomy subjects from your mind, you would live as long as any of us; at least you would live to see the girls married, and yourself a happy grandfather, with a canty old dame for your companion.’
“哦，理查德！”有一次，她惊呼道，“如果你能把这些阴郁的话题从你的脑海中抛开，你就能和我们一样长寿；但如果你愿意，你就能活得和我们一样长。”至少你会活着看到女孩们结婚，而你自己会成为一个快乐的祖父，有一个内向的老太太做你的伴侣。

My mother laughed, and so did my father: but his laugh soon perished in a dreary sigh.
我母亲笑了，我父亲也笑了，但他的笑声很快就在一声沉闷的叹息中消失了。

‘THEY married—poor penniless things!’ said he; ‘who will take them I wonder!’
“他们结婚了——可怜的、身无分文的东西！”他说。 “我想知道谁会带走它们！”

‘Why, nobody shall that isn’t thankful for them. Wasn’t I penniless when you took me? and you PRETENDED, at least, to be vastly pleased with your acquisition. But it’s no matter whether they get married or not: we can devise a thousand honest ways of making a livelihood. And I wonder, Richard, you can think of bothering your head about our POVERTY in case of your death; as if THAT would be anything compared with the calamity of losing you—an affliction that you well know would swallow up all others, and which you ought to do your utmost to preserve us from: and there is nothing like a cheerful mind for keeping the body in health.’
‘哎呀，没有人会不感谢他们。你带走我的时候我不是身无分文吗？至少你假装对自己的收获非常满意。但无论他们是否结婚：我们都可以设计出一千种诚实的谋生方式。我想知道，理查德，如果你死了，你能想到为我们的贫困而烦恼吗？好像这与失去你的灾难相比还有什么可比的——你清楚知道这种痛苦会吞没所有其他的痛苦，你应该尽最大努力保护我们免受这种痛苦：没有什么比快乐的心态更能保持我们的幸福了。身体健康。”

‘I know, Alice, it is wrong to keep repining as I do, but I cannot help it: you must bear with me.’
“我知道，爱丽丝，像我一样一直抱怨是不对的，但我无法控制：你必须容忍我。”

‘I WON’T bear with you, if I can alter you,’ replied my mother: but the harshness of her words was undone by the earnest affection of her tone and pleasant smile, that made my father smile again, less sadly and less transiently than was his wont.
“如果我能改变你，我就不会忍受你，”我母亲回答道，但她话语中的严厉被她真诚的感情和愉快的微笑所抵消，这让我父亲再次微笑，不那么悲伤，也不那么悲伤。比他平常的情况要短暂。

‘Mamma,’ said I, as soon as I could find an opportunity of speaking with her alone, ‘my money is but little, and cannot last long; if I could increase it, it would lessen papa’s anxiety, on one subject at least. I cannot draw like Mary, and so the best thing I could do would be to look out for another situation.’
“妈妈，”我一找到机会单独和她说话，就说道，“我的钱很少，而且维持不了多久；如果我能增加它，就会减轻爸爸的焦虑，至少在一个问题上。我不能像玛丽那样画画，所以我能做的最好的事情就是寻找另一种情况。

‘And so you would actually try again, Agnes?’
“所以你真的会再试一次吗，艾格尼丝？”

‘Decidedly, I would.’
“我当然愿意。”

‘Why, my dear, I should have thought you had had enough of it.’
“哎呀，亲爱的，我本以为你已经受够了。”

‘I know,’ said I, ‘everybody is not like Mr. and Mrs. Bloomfield—‘
“我知道，”我说，“每个人都不像布卢姆菲尔德先生和夫人——”

‘Some are worse,’ interrupted my mother.
“有些更糟，”我母亲打断道。

‘But not many, I think,’ replied I, ‘and I’m sure all children are not like theirs; for I and Mary were not: we always did as you bid us, didn’t we?’
“但我想，这样的人并不多，”我回答道，“而且我相信并不是所有的孩子都像他们的孩子一样；因为我和玛丽不是：我们总是按照你的吩咐去做，不是吗？

‘Generally: but then, I did not spoil you; and you were not perfect angels after all: Mary had a fund of quiet obstinacy, and you were somewhat faulty in regard to temper; but you were very good children on the whole.’
‘一般来说：不过话说回来，我并没有宠坏你；你们毕竟不是完美的天使：玛丽有一股安静的固执，而你们在脾气方面却有些毛病。但总的来说，你们都是非常好的孩子。”

‘I know I was sulky sometimes, and I should have been glad to see these children sulky sometimes too; for then I could have understood them: but they never were, for they COULD not be offended, nor hurt, nor ashamed: they could not be unhappy in any way, except when they were in a passion.’
“我知道我有时很闷闷不乐，我也应该很高兴看到这些孩子有时也很闷闷不乐；因为那时我可以理解他们：但他们从来都不是，因为他们不能被冒犯，不能伤害，也不能羞愧：他们不可能以任何方式不快乐，除非他们处于激情之中。

‘Well, if they COULD not, it was not their fault: you cannot expect stone to be as pliable as clay.’
“好吧，如果他们做不到，那也不是他们的错：你不能指望石头像粘土一样柔韧。”

‘No, but still it is very unpleasant to live with such unimpressible, incomprehensible creatures. You cannot love them; and if you could, your love would be utterly thrown away: they could neither return it, nor value, nor understand it. But, however, even if I should stumble on such a family again, which is quite unlikely, I have all this experience to begin with, and I should manage better another time; and the end and aim of this preamble is, let me try again.’
“不，但是和这样的难以感动、难以理解的生物一起生活仍然是非常不愉快的。你不能爱他们；如果可以的话，你的爱就会被彻底抛弃：他们既无法回报它，也无法珍惜它，也无法理解它。不过，即使我再次遇到这样的家庭（这是不太可能的），我本来就有这些经验，下次我应该会处理得更好；序言的结尾和目的是，让我再试一次。

‘Well, my girl, you are not easily discouraged, I see: I am glad of that. But, let me tell you, you are a good deal paler and thinner than when you first left home; and we cannot have you undermining your health to hoard up money either for yourself or others.’
“好吧，我的女孩，你并不容易灰心丧气，我明白了：我对此感到高兴。但是，我告诉你，你比刚出家时苍白了很多，瘦了很多；我们不能让你为了自己或他人攒钱而损害自己的健康。”

‘Mary tells me I am changed too; and I don’t much wonder at it, for I was in a constant state of agitation and anxiety all day long: but next time I am determined to take things coolly.’
“玛丽告诉我，我也变了；我对此并不感到奇怪，因为我整天都处于焦躁和焦虑的状态：但下次我决心冷静地对待事情。

After some further discussion, my mother promised once more to assist me, provided I would wait and be patient; and I left her to broach the matter to my father, when and how she deemed it most advisable: never doubting her ability to obtain his consent. Meantime, I searched, with great interest, the advertising columns of the newspapers, and wrote answers to every ‘Wanted a Governess’ that appeared at all eligible; but all my letters, as well as the replies, when I got any, were dutifully shown to my mother; and she, to my chagrin, made me reject the situations one after another: these were low people, these were too exacting in their demands, and these too niggardly in their remuneration.
经过一番讨论，母亲再次答应，只要我耐心等待，就会帮助我。我让她在她认为最明智的时间和方式向我父亲提出这件事：永远不要怀疑她获得他同意的能力。与此同时，我怀着极大的兴趣搜索了报纸的广告栏，并为每一个符合条件的“想要一名家庭教师”写下了答案；但我所有的信以及收到的答复都尽职尽责地交给了我的母亲。令我懊恼的是，她让我一一拒绝这些情况：这些人都是低等人，他们的要求太苛刻，这些人的报酬太吝啬。

‘Your talents are not such as every poor clergyman’s daughter possesses, Agnes,’ she would say, ‘and you must not throw them away. Remember, you promised to be patient: there is no need of hurry: you have plenty of time before you, and may have many chances yet.’
“艾格尼丝，你的才华并不像每个可怜的牧师的女儿那样，”她会说，“你不能把它们扔掉。”请记住，您承诺过要保持耐心：无需着急：您还有很多时间，并且可能还有很多机会。

At length, she advised me to put an advertisement, myself, in the paper, stating my qualifications, &c.
最后，她建议我自己在报纸上登一则广告，说明我的资格等等。

‘Music, singing, drawing, French, Latin, and German,’ said she, ‘are no mean assemblage: many will be glad to have so much in one instructor; and this time, you shall try your fortune in a somewhat higher family in that of some genuine, thoroughbred gentleman; for such are far more likely to treat you with proper respect and consideration than those purse-proud tradespeople and arrogant upstarts. I have known several among the higher ranks who treated their governesses quite as one of the family; though some, I allow, are as insolent and exacting as any one else can be: for there are bad and good in all classes.’
“音乐、歌唱、绘画、法语、拉丁语和德语，”她说，“这些都不是简单的组合：许多人会很高兴能在一位老师身上学到这么多；这一次，你将在一个真正的纯种绅士的较高级家庭中试试你的运气。因为与那些财大气粗的商人和傲慢的暴发户相比，他们更有可能以适当的尊重和体贴对待你。我认识一些高层人士，他们对待家庭女教师就像家庭中的一员一样。尽管我承认，有些人和其他人一样傲慢和严格：因为所有阶级都有好有坏。

The advertisement was quickly written and despatched. Of the two parties who answered it, but one would consent to give me fifty pounds, the sum my mother bade me name as the salary I should require; and here, I hesitated about engaging myself, as I feared the children would be too old, and their parents would require some one more showy, or more experienced, if not more accomplished than I. But my mother dissuaded me from declining it on that account: I should do vastly well, she said, if I would only throw aside my diffidence, and acquire a little more confidence in myself. I was just to give a plain, true statement of my acquirements and qualifications, and name what stipulations I chose to make, and then await the result. The only stipulation I ventured to propose, was that I might be allowed two months’ holidays during the year to visit my friends, at Midsummer and Christmas. The unknown lady, in her reply, made no objection to this, and stated that, as to my acquirements, she had no doubt I should be able to give satisfaction; but in the engagement of governesses she considered those things as but subordinate points; as being situated in the neighbourhood of O—-, she could get masters to supply any deficiencies in that respect: but, in her opinion, next to unimpeachable morality, a mild and cheerful temper and obliging disposition were the most essential requisities.
广告很快就写好了并寄出。在回答这个问题的两方中，其中一人同意给我五十英镑，这是我母亲指定给我的工资，作为我应该要求的工资；在这里，我犹豫着是否要自己参与，因为我担心孩子们太老了，他们的父母会需要一个比我更引人注目、更有经验的人，如果不是比我更有成就的话。但我母亲劝我不要拒绝这一点。帐户：她说，如果我抛开自信，对自己多一点信心，我应该做得很好。我只是简单、真实地陈述我的成就和资格，并说出我选择做出的规定，然后等待结果。我大胆提出的唯一条件是，一年中我可以有两个月的假期去看望我的朋友，在仲夏节和圣诞节。这位不知名的女士在答复中对此没有提出异议，并表示，就我的成就而言，她相信我应该能够令她满意；但在聘用家庭女教师时，她认为这些只是次要的事情。由于地处O——附近，她可以请师父来弥补这方面的不足，但在她看来，除了无懈可击的道德之外，温和开朗的脾气和乐于助人的性格是最重要的要求。

My mother did not relish this at all, and now made many objections to my accepting the situation; in which my sister warmly supported her: but, unwilling to be balked again, I overruled them all; and, having first obtained the consent of my father (who had, a short time previously, been apprised of these transactions), I wrote a most obliging epistle to my unknown correspondent, and, finally, the bargain was concluded.
我母亲对此一点也不喜欢，现在多次反对我接受这种情况。我姐姐热情地支持了她，但我不愿意再犹豫，就否决了他们的建议。我首先征得了我父亲的同意（他不久前才获悉这些交易），我给我不知名的通讯员写了一封非常热情的信，最后，交易达成了。

It was decreed that on the last day of January I was to enter upon my new office as governess in the family of Mr. Murray, of Horton Lodge, near O—-, about seventy miles from our village: a formidable distance to me, as I had never been above twenty miles from home in all the course of my twenty years’ sojourn on earth; and as, moreover, every individual in that family and in the neighbourhood was utterly unknown to myself and all my acquaintances. But this rendered it only the more piquant to me. I had now, in some measure, got rid of the mauvaise honte that had formerly oppressed me so much; there was a pleasing excitement in the idea of entering these unknown regions, and making my way alone among its strange inhabitants. I now flattered myself I was going to see something in the world: Mr. Murray’s residence was near a large town, and not in a manufacturing district, where the people had nothing to do but to make money; his rank from what I could gather, appeared to be higher than that of Mr. Bloomfield; and, doubtless, he was one of those genuine thoroughbred gentry my mother spoke of, who would treat his governess with due consideration as a respectable well-educated lady, the instructor and guide of his children, and not a mere upper servant. Then, my pupils being older, would be more rational, more teachable, and less troublesome than the last; they would be less confined to the schoolroom, and not require that constant labour and incessant watching; and, finally, bright visions mingled with my hopes, with which the care of children and the mere duties of a governess had little or nothing to do. Thus, the reader will see that I had no claim to be regarded as a martyr to filial piety, going forth to sacrifice peace and liberty for the sole purpose of laying up stores for the comfort and support of my parents: though certainly the comfort of my father, and the future support of my mother, had a large share in my calculations; and fifty pounds appeared to me no ordinary sum. I must have decent clothes becoming my station; I must, it seemed, put out my washing, and also pay for my four annual journeys between Horton Lodge and home; but with strict attention to economy, surely twenty pounds, or little more, would cover those expenses, and then there would be thirty for the bank, or little less: what a valuable addition to our stock! Oh, I must struggle to keep this situation, whatever it might be! both for my own honour among my friends and for the solid services I might render them by my continuance there.
根据法令，在一月的最后一天，我将在 Murray 先生的家里担任家庭女教师，住在 O 附近的 Horton Lodge，距离我们的村庄大约七十英里：对我来说是一个令人生畏的距离，因为我在地球上逗留的二十年里，从未离开过离家超过二十英里的地方。而且，因为我和我所有的熟人都完全不认识那个家庭和邻居中的每一个人。但这对我来说只会更加辛辣。现在，在某种程度上，我已经摆脱了以前深深压迫我的莫维兹翁特。一想到要进入这些未知的地区，并在陌生的居民中独自前行，我就感到一种令人愉快的兴奋。我现在沾沾自喜地说，我要去看看世界上的一些东西：穆雷先生的住所靠近一个大城市，而不是在制造业区，那里的人们除了赚钱之外无所事事；据我所知，他的级别似乎比布卢姆菲尔德先生高。毫无疑问，他是我母亲所说的那些真正的纯种绅士之一，他会把他的家庭教师视为一位受过良好教育的受人尊敬的女士，孩子们的指导者和向导，而不仅仅是一个上等仆人。这样，我的学生年纪大了，就会比以前更理性、更受教，也不会那么麻烦。他们将不再局限于教室，也不需要持续的劳动和不间断的看守；最后，光明的愿景与我的希望交织在一起，而照顾孩子和家庭教师的职责与我的希望几乎没有关系或根本没有关系。 因此，读者会看到，我没有资格被视为孝道烈士，牺牲和平与自由，唯一的目的是积攒钱财，换取父母的安慰和支持：尽管当然是为了父母的安慰。我的父亲和母亲未来的支持，在我的计算中占了很大的份额。五十英镑在我看来可不是一个普通的数字。我必须有得体的衣服作为我的立场；看来我必须把要洗的衣服拿出来，还要支付我每年四次往返霍顿旅馆和家的旅费。但是如果严格注意节约的话，二十英镑或者多一点肯定可以支付这些费用，然后银行就会有三十英镑或者少一点：对我们的库存来说是多么有价值的补充啊！哦，不管怎样，我必须努力维持这种状况！这既是为了我在朋友中的荣誉，也是为了我继续在那里为他们提供可靠的服务。

CHAPTER VII—HORTON LODGE
第七章霍顿小屋

The 31st of January was a wild, tempestuous day: there was a strong north wind, with a continual storm of snow drifting on the ground and whirling through the air. My friends would have had me delay my departure, but fearful of prejudicing my employers against me by such want of punctuality at the commencement of my undertaking, I persisted in keeping the appointment.
1月31日，是一个狂风暴雨的日子：北风强劲，雪花不停地飘落在地上，空中飞舞。我的朋友们本来想让我推迟出发时间，但由于担心在开始工作时如此不准时，我的雇主会对我产生偏见，所以我坚持遵守约定。

I will not inflict upon my readers an account of my leaving home on that dark winter morning: the fond farewells, the long, long journey to O—-, the solitary waitings in inns for coaches or trains—for there were some railways then—and, finally, the meeting at O—with Mr. Murray’s servant, who had been sent with the phaeton to drive me from thence to Horton Lodge. I will just state that the heavy snow had thrown such impediments in the way of both horses and steam-engines, that it was dark some hours before I reached my journey’s end, and that a most bewildering storm came on at last, which made the few miles’ space between O—and Horton Lodge a long and formidable passage. I sat resigned, with the cold, sharp snow drifting through my veil and filling my lap, seeing nothing, and wondering how the unfortunate horse and driver could make their way even as well as they did; and indeed it was but a toilsome, creeping style of progression, to say the best of it. At length we paused; and, at the call of the driver, someone unlatched and rolled back upon their creaking hinges what appeared to be the park gates. Then we proceeded along a smoother road, whence, occasionally, I perceived some huge, hoary mass gleaming through the darkness, which I took to be a portion of a snow-clad tree. After a considerable time we paused again, before the stately portico of a large house with long windows descending to the ground.
我不会向我的读者讲述我在那个黑暗的冬日早晨离开家的经历：深情的告别，前往O的漫长而漫长的旅程，在客栈孤独地等待长途汽车或火车——因为当时有一些铁路——最后，在 O 与默里先生的仆人会面，他被派去开着四轮马车，开车送我从那里到霍顿旅馆。我只想说，大雪给马匹和蒸汽机带来了如此大的障碍，在我到达旅程终点的几个小时前天已经黑了，最后一场最令人困惑的暴风雨来了，这使得我的旅程变得更加艰难。 O 和霍顿洛奇之间有几英里的距离，是一条漫长而艰巨的通道。我听天由命地坐着，冰冷刺骨的雪花穿过我的面纱，铺满了我的膝盖，什么也看不见，我想知道那匹不幸的马和车夫怎么能像他们一样顺利地走完路；事实上，从最好的角度来说，这只是一种艰苦的、缓慢的进展方式。最后我们停了下来。在司机的呼唤下，有人打开了门闩，并在吱吱作响的铰链上向后滚动了似乎是公园大门的东西。然后我们沿着一条更平坦的道路前进，偶尔我会看到一些巨大的、灰白色的物体在黑暗中闪闪发光，我认为那是一棵被雪覆盖的树的一部分。过了相当长的一段时间，我们再次停了下来，停在一座大房子的庄严门廊前，门廊上有长长的窗户一直延伸到地面。

I rose with some difficulty from under the superincumbent snowdrift, and alighted from the carriage, expecting that a kind and hospitable reception would indemnify me for the toils and hardships of the day. A gentleman person in black opened the door, and admitted me into a spacious hall, lighted by an amber-coloured lamp suspended from the ceiling; he led me through this, along a passage, and opening the door of a back room, told me that was the schoolroom. I entered, and found two young ladies and two young gentlemen—my future pupils, I supposed. After a formal greeting, the elder girl, who was trifling over a piece of canvas and a basket of German wools, asked if I should like to go upstairs. I replied in the affirmative, of course.
我费了好大劲才从上面的雪堆下站起来，下了马车，期待着友善而热情的接待，以补偿我这一天的辛劳和艰辛。一位身穿黑衣的绅士打开了门，让我进入一个宽敞的大厅，天花板上悬挂着一盏琥珀色的灯。他带我穿过这里，沿着一条通道，打开后面房间的门，告诉我那是教室。我进去了，发现了两位年轻女士和两位年轻先生——我想他们是我未来的学生。正式打招呼后，年长的女孩正在摆弄一块帆布和一篮德国羊毛，问我是否愿意上楼。我的回答是肯定的，当然。

‘Matilda, take a candle, and show her her room,’ said she.
“玛蒂尔达，拿根蜡烛，带她看看她的房间，”她说。

Miss Matilda, a strapping hoyden of about fourteen, with a short frock and trousers, shrugged her shoulders and made a slight grimace, but took a candle and proceeded before me up the back stairs (a long, steep, double flight), and through a long, narrow passage, to a small but tolerably comfortable room. She then asked me if I would take some tea or coffee. I was about to answer No; but remembering that I had taken nothing since seven o’clock that morning, and feeling faint in consequence, I said I would take a cup of tea. Saying she would tell ‘Brown,’ the young lady departed; and by the time I had divested myself of my heavy, wet cloak, shawl, bonnet, &c., a mincing damsel came to say the young ladies desired to know whether I would take my tea up there or in the schoolroom. Under the plea of fatigue I chose to take it there. She withdrew; and, after a while, returned again with a small tea-tray, and placed it on the chest of drawers, which served as a dressing-table. Having civilly thanked her, I asked at what time I should be expected to rise in the morning.
玛蒂尔达小姐大约十四岁，身材魁梧，身材魁梧，穿着短裙和短裤，她耸了耸肩，做了个鬼脸，但还是拿着一支蜡烛，在我前面走上后楼梯（又长又陡的双楼梯），穿过楼梯。一条又长又窄的通道，通向一个虽小但还算舒适的房间。然后她问我要喝茶还是咖啡。我正要回答“否”；但想起那天早上七点以后我就没吃过任何东西，结果感觉头晕，我说我要喝杯茶。这位年轻女士说她要告诉“布朗”，然后就离开了。当我脱掉湿漉漉的厚斗篷、披肩、帽子等时，一位装腔作势的姑娘走过来说，年轻的女士们想知道我是要把茶带到那里还是在教室里。在疲劳的借口下我选择把它带到那里。她退出了；过了一会儿，他又端着一个小茶盘回来，放在充当梳妆台的五斗柜上。我礼貌地感谢了她，然后问我早上应该几点起床。

‘The young ladies and gentlemen breakfast at half-past eight, ma’am,’ said she; ‘they rise early; but, as they seldom do any lessons before breakfast, I should think it will do if you rise soon after seven.’
“女士们，年轻的女士们先生们八点半吃早餐，”她说。 “他们起得很早；但是，由于他们很少在早餐前上任何课，我认为如果你七点后很快起床就可以了。

I desired her to be so kind as to call me at seven, and, promising to do so, she withdrew. Then, having broken my long fast on a cup of tea and a little thin bread and butter, I sat down beside the small, smouldering fire, and amused myself with a hearty fit of crying; after which, I said my prayers, and then, feeling considerably relieved, began to prepare for bed. Finding that none of my luggage was brought up, I instituted a search for the bell; and failing to discover any signs of such a convenience in any corner of the room, I took my candle and ventured through the long passage, and down the steep stairs, on a voyage of discovery. Meeting a well-dressed female on the way, I told her what I wanted; but not without considerable hesitation, as I was not quite sure whether it was one of the upper servants, or Mrs. Murray herself: it happened, however, to be the lady’s-maid. With the air of one conferring an unusual favour, she vouchsafed to undertake the sending up of my things; and when I had re-entered my room, and waited and wondered a long time (greatly fearing that she had forgotten or neglected to perform her promise, and doubting whether to keep waiting or go to bed, or go down again), my hopes, at length, were revived by the sound of voices and laughter, accompanied by the tramp of feet along the passage; and presently the luggage was brought in by a rough-looking maid and a man, neither of them very respectful in their demeanour to me. Having shut the door upon their retiring footsteps, and unpacked a few of my things, I betook myself to rest; gladly enough, for I was weary in body and mind.
我希望她能在七点钟给我打电话，她答应了，就退出了。然后，我喝了一杯茶，吃了一点薄面包和黄油，结束了漫长的禁食，在闷烧的小火旁坐下，放声大哭起来，取乐自己。之后，我做了祈祷，然后感到相当轻松，开始准备睡觉。发现我的行李都没有被带上来，我开始寻找门铃。由于在房间的任何角落都没有发现任何这种便利的迹象，我拿着蜡烛，冒险穿过长长的通道，走下陡峭的楼梯，开始了一次发现之旅。路上遇到一位衣着考究的女士，我告诉她我想要什么；但我还是犹豫了很久，因为我不太确定这是一位上层仆人，还是默里夫人本人：然而，它恰好是那位女士的女仆。她带着一种不寻常的恩惠，答应把我的东西送上来。当我重新进入自己的房间，等待并疑惑了很长一段时间（非常担心她忘记或忽视履行她的诺言，并怀疑是否继续等待或上床睡觉，或再次下去）时，我的希望最后，伴随着过道上的脚步声和说话声、笑声，他们又苏醒了。不一会儿，行李就被一个长相粗鲁的女仆和一个男人搬了进来，他们对我的态度都不太尊重。在他们离去的脚步声中关上门，打开我的一些东西，我开始休息。很高兴，因为我身心疲惫。

It was with a strange feeling of desolation, mingled with a strong sense of the novelty of my situation, and a joyless kind of curiosity concerning what was yet unknown, that I awoke the next morning; feeling like one whirled away by enchantment, and suddenly dropped from the clouds into a remote and unknown land, widely and completely isolated from all he had ever seen or known before; or like a thistle-seed borne on the wind to some strange nook of uncongenial soil, where it must lie long enough before it can take root and germinate, extracting nourishment from what appears so alien to its nature: if, indeed, it ever can. But this gives no proper idea of my feelings at all; and no one that has not lived such a retired, stationary life as mine, can possibly imagine what they were: hardly even if he has known what it is to awake some morning, and find himself in Port Nelson, in New Zealand, with a world of waters between himself and all that knew him.
第二天早上，我醒来时，带着一种奇怪的荒凉感，夹杂着对自己处境的强烈新奇感，以及对未知事物的一种无趣的好奇心。感觉就像一个人被魔法迷住了，突然从云端跌落到一片遥远而未知的土地上，与他以前见过或知道的一切完全隔绝；或者就像一粒蓟种子被风吹到不适宜土壤的某个奇怪的角落，它必须在那里躺得足够长的时间才能生根发芽，从看似与其本质格格不入的事物中汲取营养：如果它确实能够做到的话。但这根本无法正确表达我的感受；没有人像我一样过着退休、平静的生活，不可能想象那是什么：即使他几乎不知道有一天早上醒来，发现自己在新西兰的纳尔逊港，身边有一个人是什么感觉。他和所有认识他的人之间的水域世界。

I shall not soon forget the peculiar feeling with which I raised my blind and looked out upon the unknown world: a wide, white wilderness was all that met my gaze; a waste of
我不会很快忘记我拉起百叶窗，眺望未知世界的奇特感觉：映入我眼帘的是一片广阔的白色荒野；浪费

Deserts tossed in snow,
沙漠被白雪覆盖，

And heavy laden groves.
还有负载沉重的树林。

I descended to the schoolroom with no remarkable eagerness to join my pupils, though not without some feeling of curiosity respecting what a further acquaintance would reveal. One thing, among others of more obvious importance, I determined with myself—I must begin with calling them Miss and Master. It seemed to me a chilling and unnatural piece of punctilio between the children of a family and their instructor and daily companion; especially where the former were in their early childhood, as at Wellwood House; but even there, my calling the little Bloomfields by their simple names had been regarded as an offensive liberty: as their parents had taken care to show me, by carefully designating them MASTER and MISS Bloomfield, &c., in speaking to me. I had been very slow to take the hint, because the whole affair struck me as so very absurd; but now I determined to be wiser, and begin at once with as much form and ceremony as any member of the family would be likely to require: and, indeed, the children being so much older, there would be less difficulty; though the little words Miss and Master seemed to have a surprising effect in repressing all familiar, open-hearted kindness, and extinguishing every gleam of cordiality that might arise between us.
我来到教室，并没有明显渴望加入我的学生，尽管也不乏好奇，尊重进一步的熟人会透露什么。除了其他更明显重要的事情之外，我自己决定了一件事——我必须首先称呼他们为小姐和主人。在我看来，这似乎是一个家庭的孩子与他们的老师和日常伙伴之间令人毛骨悚然、不自然的小事。尤其是前者在童年早期的地方，比如韦尔伍德之家；但即使在那里，我用简单的名字称呼小布卢姆菲尔德一家也被认为是一种冒犯性的自由：正如他们的父母在对我说话时小心地称呼他们为“布卢姆菲尔德先生”和“布卢姆菲尔德小姐”等人所小心地向我展示的那样。我很慢才领会到这个暗示，因为整件事让我觉得非常荒唐。但现在我决定变得更明智，并立即按照任何家庭成员可能要求的形式和仪式开始：事实上，孩子们已经大了很多，困难会更少；尽管“小姐”和“主人”这两个小词似乎具有令人惊讶的效果，抑制了所有熟悉的、敞开心扉的善意，并熄灭了我们之间可能出现的每一丝真诚的光芒。

As I cannot, like Dogberry, find it in my heart to bestow all my tediousness upon the reader, I will not go on to bore him with a minute detail of all the discoveries and proceedings of this and the following day. No doubt he will be amply satisfied with a slight sketch of the different members of the family, and a general view of the first year or two of my sojourn among them.
由于我无法像多格伯里那样，将所有乏味的内容都倾注给读者，因此我不会继续向他讲述今天和第二天的所有发现和进展的微小细节，让他感到厌烦。毫无疑问，他会对家庭不同成员的简要概述以及我在他们中间逗留的头一两年的总体看法感到非常满意。

To begin with the head: Mr. Murray was, by all accounts, a blustering, roystering, country squire: a devoted fox-hunter, a skilful horse-jockey and farrier, an active, practical farmer, and a hearty bon vivant. By all accounts, I say; for, except on Sundays, when he went to church, I never saw him from month to month: unless, in crossing the hall or walking in the grounds, the figure of a tall, stout gentleman, with scarlet cheeks and crimson nose, happened to come across me; on which occasions, if he passed near enough to speak, an unceremonious nod, accompanied by a ‘Morning, Miss Grey,’ or some such brief salutation, was usually vouchsafed. Frequently, indeed, his loud laugh reached me from afar; and oftener still I heard him swearing and blaspheming against the footmen, groom, coachman, or some other hapless dependant.
先从头部开始：据大家所说，默里先生是一位狂妄、喧闹的乡村乡绅：一位忠诚的猎狐者、一位熟练的骑师和蹄铁匠、一位积极务实的农民和一位热情的享乐主义者。无论如何，我说；因为，除了周日他去教堂的时候，我每个月都没有见过他：除非，在穿过大厅或在庭院里行走时，出现一个高大粗壮的绅士，脸颊猩红，鼻子猩红。遇见我；在这种情况下，如果他走得足够近，可以说话，通常会得到一个不客气的点头，并伴随着“早上好，格雷小姐”或类似的简短问候。事实上，他的大笑声经常从远处传到我耳中。我还经常听到他咒骂和亵渎男仆、马夫、马车夫或其他不幸的随从。

Mrs. Murray was a handsome, dashing lady of forty, who certainly required neither rouge nor padding to add to her charms; and whose chief enjoyments were, or seemed to be, in giving or frequenting parties, and in dressing at the very top of the fashion. I did not see her till eleven o’clock on the morning after my arrival; when she honoured me with a visit, just as my mother might step into the kitchen to see a new servant-girl: yet not so, either, for my mother would have seen her immediately after her arrival, and not waited till the next day; and, moreover, she would have addressed her in a more kind and friendly manner, and given her some words of comfort as well as a plain exposition of her duties; but Mrs. Murray did neither the one nor the other. She just stepped into the schoolroom on her return from ordering dinner in the housekeeper’s room, bade me good-morning, stood for two minutes by the fire, said a few words about the weather and the ‘rather rough’ journey I must have had yesterday; petted her youngest child—a boy of ten—who had just been wiping his mouth and hands on her gown, after indulging in some savoury morsel from the housekeeper’s store; told me what a sweet, good boy he was; and then sailed out, with a self-complacent smile upon her face: thinking, no doubt, that she had done quite enough for the present, and had been delightfully condescending into the bargain. Her children evidently held the same opinion, and I alone thought otherwise.
默里夫人是一位四十岁的英俊潇洒的女士，当然不需要胭脂或填充物来增加她的魅力；他们的主要乐趣是或似乎是参加或经常参加聚会，以及穿着最时尚的衣服。直到抵达后的第二天早上十一点我才见到她。当她荣幸地来访时，就像我母亲走进厨房去见一位新女仆一样：但也不是这样，因为我母亲一到就会立即看到她，而不会等到第二天;此外，她还会以更加友善和友好的方式与她交谈，给她一些安慰的话，并简单地解释她的职责；但默里夫人两者都没有做。她在管家的房间订完晚饭回来后刚走进教室，向我道早安，在火边站了两分钟，说了几句关于天气和我昨天一定经历的“相当艰难”的旅程。 ;抚摸她最小的孩子——一个十岁的男孩——他刚刚在她的礼服上擦嘴和手，在享用了管家店里的一些美味食物后；告诉我他是一个多么可爱的好孩子；然后她就出发了，脸上挂着自满的微笑：毫无疑问，她想，目前她已经做得足够多了，而且已经愉快地屈尊接受了这笔交易。她的孩子们显然也持同样的观点，只有我不这么认为。

After this she looked in upon me once or twice, during the absence of my pupils, to enlighten me concerning my duties towards them. For the girls she seemed anxious only to render them as superficially attractive and showily accomplished as they could possibly be made, without present trouble or discomfort to themselves; and I was to act accordingly—to study and strive to amuse and oblige, instruct, refine, and polish, with the least possible exertion on their part, and no exercise of authority on mine. With regard to the two boys, it was much the same; only instead of accomplishments, I was to get the greatest possible quantity of Latin grammar and Valpy’s Delectus into their heads, in order to fit them for school—the greatest possible quantity at least WITHOUT trouble to themselves. John might be a ‘little highspirited,’ and Charles might be a little ‘nervous and tedious—‘
此后，在我的学生不在的时候，她看了我一两次，以启发我对他们的责任。对于女孩子来说，她似乎只想让她们尽可能地在表面上有吸引力并取得华丽的成就，而不会给自己带来麻烦或不适。我要采取相应的行动——学习并努力娱乐、服务、指导、完善和完善，他们尽可能少地付出努力，而我不行使权威。至于两个男孩，情况也大同小异。只是，我不是要取得成就，而是要让他们尽可能多地学习拉丁语语法和瓦尔皮的《Delectus》，以便他们适应学校的学习——尽可能多地学习，至少不会给他们自己带来麻烦。约翰可能会“有点亢奋”，而查尔斯可能会有点“紧张而乏味——”

‘But at all events, Miss Grey,’ said she, ‘I hope YOU will keep your temper, and be mild and patient throughout; especially with the dear little Charles; he is so extremely nervous and susceptible, and so utterly unaccustomed to anything but the tenderest treatment. You will excuse my naming these things to you; for the fact is, I have hitherto found all the governesses, even the very best of them, faulty in this particular. They wanted that meek and quiet spirit, which St. Matthew, or some of them, says is better than the putting on of apparel—you will know the passage to which I allude, for you are a clergyman’s daughter. But I have no doubt you will give satisfaction in this respect as well as the rest. And remember, on all occasions, when any of the young people do anything improper, if persuasion and gentle remonstrance will not do, let one of the others come and tell me; for I can speak to them more plainly than it would be proper for you to do. And make them as happy as you can, Miss Grey, and I dare say you will do very well.’
“但无论如何，格雷小姐，”她说，“我希望你能控制住自己的脾气，始终保持温和和耐心；尤其是和亲爱的小查尔斯在一起；他是如此的紧张和敏感，除了最温柔的对待之外，他完全不习惯任何事情。请原谅我向您命名这些东西；事实上，到目前为止，我发现所有的家庭女教师，甚至是最好的家庭女教师，在这一点上都有缺陷。他们想要那种温顺和安静的精神，圣马太或他们中的一些人说，这比穿上衣服更好——你会知道我提到的这段话，因为你是牧师的女儿。但我毫不怀疑您会在这方面以及其他方面感到满意。请记住，在任何情况下，当任何年轻人做出任何不当行为时，如果说服和温和的劝告不起作用，请让其他人来告诉我；因为我可以比你更清楚地对他们说话。格雷小姐，尽可能让他们高兴，我敢说你会做得很好。”

I observed that while Mrs. Murray was so extremely solicitous for the comfort and happiness of her children, and continually talking about it, she never once mentioned mine; though they were at home, surrounded by friends, and I an alien among strangers; and I did not yet know enough of the world, not to be considerably surprised at this anomaly.
我观察到，虽然默里夫人非常关心孩子们的舒适和幸福，并且不断地谈论这件事，但她从来没有提到过我的孩子；她从来没有提到过我的孩子。尽管他们在家，身边都是朋友，而我却是陌生人中的异类；我对这个世界还不够了解，对这种异常现象并不感到惊讶。

Miss Murray, otherwise Rosalie, was about sixteen when I came, and decidedly a very pretty girl; and in two years longer, as time more completely developed her form and added grace to her carriage and deportment, she became positively beautiful; and that in no common degree. She was tall and slender, yet not thin; perfectly formed, exquisitely fair, though not without a brilliant, healthy bloom; her hair, which she wore in a profusion of long ringlets, was of a very light brown inclining to yellow; her eyes were pale blue, but so clear and bright that few would wish them darker; the rest of her features were small, not quite regular, and not remarkably otherwise: but altogether you could not hesitate to pronounce her a very lovely girl. I wish I could say as much for mind and disposition as I can for her form and face.
我来的时候，默里小姐，也就是罗莎莉，大约十六岁，无疑是一个非常漂亮的女孩。再过两年，随着时间的推移，她的体形更加成熟，举止和举止也更加优雅，她变得非常美丽。而且程度不一般。她身材高挑，身材苗条，但并不瘦弱；形状完美，精致美丽，但并非没有灿烂、健康的花朵；她的头发呈浅棕色，略带黄色，留着长长的卷发。她的眼睛是淡蓝色的，但清澈明亮，很少有人希望它们颜色更深。她的其他特征都很小，不太规则，而且没有什么特别之处：但总的来说，你可以毫不犹豫地称她为一个非常可爱的女孩。我希望我能像描述她的身材和面孔一样，描述她的思想和性格。

Yet think not I have any dreadful disclosures to make: she was lively, light-hearted, and could be very agreeable, with those who did not cross her will. Towards me, when I first came, she was cold and haughty, then insolent and overbearing; but, on a further acquaintance, she gradually laid aside her airs, and in time became as deeply attached to me as it was possible for HER to be to one of my character and position: for she seldom lost sight, for above half an hour at a time, of the fact of my being a hireling and a poor curate’s daughter. And yet, upon the whole, I believe she respected me more than she herself was aware of; because I was the only person in the house who steadily professed good principles, habitually spoke the truth, and generally endeavoured to make inclination bow to duty; and this I say, not, of course, in commendation of myself, but to show the unfortunate state of the family to which my services were, for the present, devoted. There was no member of it in whom I regretted this sad want of principle so much as Miss Murray herself; not only because she had taken a fancy to me, but because there was so much of what was pleasant and prepossessing in herself, that, in spite of her failings, I really liked her—when she did not rouse my indignation, or ruffle my temper by TOO great a display of her faults. These, however, I would fain persuade myself were rather the effect of her education than her disposition: she had never been perfectly taught the distinction between right and wrong; she had, like her brothers and sisters, been suffered, from infancy, to tyrannize over nurses, governesses, and servants; she had not been taught to moderate her desires, to control her temper or bridle her will, or to sacrifice her own pleasure for the good of others. Her temper being naturally good, she was never violent or morose, but from constant indulgence, and habitual scorn of reason, she was often testy and capricious; her mind had never been cultivated: her intellect, at best, was somewhat shallow; she possessed considerable vivacity, some quickness of perception, and some talent for music and the acquisition of languages, but till fifteen she had troubled herself to acquire nothing;—then the love of display had roused her faculties, and induced her to apply herself, but only to the more showy accomplishments. And when I came it was the same: everything was neglected but French, German, music, singing, dancing, fancy-work, and a little drawing—such drawing as might produce the greatest show with the smallest labour, and the principal parts of which were generally done by me. For music and singing, besides my occasional instructions, she had the attendance of the best master the country afforded; and in these accomplishments, as well as in dancing, she certainly attained great proficiency. To music, indeed, she devoted too much of her time, as, governess though I was, I frequently told her; but her mother thought that if SHE liked it, she COULD not give too much time to the acquisition of so attractive an art. Of fancy-work I knew nothing but what I gathered from my pupil and my own observation; but no sooner was I initiated, than she made me useful in twenty different ways: all the tedious parts of her work were shifted on to my shoulders; such as stretching the frames, stitching in the canvas, sorting the wools and silks, putting in the grounds, counting the stitches, rectifying mistakes, and finishing the pieces she was tired of.
不过，别以为我有什么可怕的事情要透露：她活泼、轻松，对那些不违背她意愿的人也很友善​​。对我，刚来的时候，她冷漠傲慢，后来张狂霸道；但是，随着进一步的了解，她逐渐放下了架子，并最终对我产生了深深的依恋，因为她可能与我的性格和立场一样：因为她很少失去视力，超过半个小时。一次，我是一名雇工，也是一名贫穷牧师的女儿。然而，总的来说，我相信她对我的尊重比她自己意识到的还要多。因为我是家里唯一始终坚持良好原则、习惯说真话、并努力让自己的倾向屈服于责任的人。当然，我这样说并不是为了赞扬我自己，而是为了表明我目前所致力于服务的家庭的不幸状况。在这个组织中，没有哪个成员比默里小姐本人更让我对这种可悲的缺乏原则感到遗憾。不仅因为她喜欢我，而且因为她身上有那么多令人愉快和讨人喜欢的地方，所以尽管她有缺点，我还是真的很喜欢她——当她没有激起我的愤慨，或者激怒我时。脾气太大，暴露了她的缺点。然而，我很愿意说服自己，这更多的是她所受的教育的影响，而不是她的性格：她从来没有被完美地教导过正确和错误的区别；她从来没有被正确地教导过。她和她的兄弟姐妹一样，从婴儿期起就遭受着对护士、家庭教师和仆人的专横欺凌。她没有被教导要节制自己的欲望，控制自己的脾气或束缚自己的意志，或者为了他人的利益而牺牲自己的快乐。 她的脾气本来就很好，从不暴力，也不阴郁，但由于一贯的放纵，习惯性的蔑视理性，她常常暴躁易怒；她的心智从来没有被培养过，她的智力充其量也只是有些肤浅；她生性活泼，反应敏捷，有一定的音乐天赋和学习语言的天赋，但直到十五岁她才费尽心机却一无所获；——后来，对表现的热爱激发了她的才能，并促使她全身心投入，但仅限于更引人注目的成就。当我来的时候，情况还是一样：一切都被忽视了，除了法语、德语、音乐、歌唱、舞蹈、幻想作品和一点绘画——这样的绘画可以用最少的劳动产生最伟大的表演，而主要部分这通常是由我完成的。对于音乐和歌唱，除了我偶尔的指导外，她还有全国最好的大师在场。在这些成就以及舞蹈方面，她无疑都达到了很高的水平。事实上，她在音乐上投入了太多的时间，就像我经常告诉她的那样，尽管我是家庭教师。但她的母亲认为，如果她喜欢它，她就不会花太多时间来获得如此有吸引力的艺术。对于幻想作品，我除了从我的学生和我自己的观察中收集到的之外一无所知。但我一开始，她就以二十种不同的方式让我变得有用：她工作中所有乏味的部分都转移到了我的肩上；比如拉伸画框、缝合画布、整理羊毛和丝绸、放入地面、数针数、纠正错误以及完成她厌倦的作品。

At sixteen, Miss Murray was something of a romp, yet not more so than is natural and allowable for a girl of that age, but at seventeen, that propensity, like all other things, began to give way to the ruling passion, and soon was swallowed up in the allabsorbing ambition to attract and dazzle the other sex. But enough of her: now let us turn to her sister.
十六岁的时候，默里小姐有点嬉戏，但对于这个年龄的女孩来说，这并不算太自然和允许的，但到了十七岁，这种倾向，像所有其他事情一样，开始让位于占主导地位的激情，很快被吸引和迷惑异性的雄心所吞噬。但她已经够了：现在让我们转向她的妹妹。

Miss Matilda Murray was a veritable hoyden, of whom little need be said. She was about two years and a half younger than her sister; her features were larger, her complexion much darker. She might possibly make a handsome woman; but she was far too big-boned and awkward ever to be called a pretty girl, and at present she cared little about it. Rosalie knew all her charms, and thought them even greater than they were, and valued them more highly than she ought to have done, had they been three times as great; Matilda thought she was well enough, but cared little about the matter; still less did she care about the cultivation of her mind, and the acquisition of ornamental accomplishments. The manner in which she learnt her lessons and practised her music was calculated to drive any governess to despair. Short and easy as her tasks were, if done at all, they were slurred over, at any time and in any way; but generally at the least convenient times, and in the way least beneficial to herself, and least satisfactory to me: the short half-hour of practising was horribly strummed through; she, meantime, unsparingly abusing me, either for interrupting her with corrections, or for not rectifying her mistakes before they were made, or something equally unreasonable. Once or twice, I ventured to remonstrate with her seriously for such irrational conduct; but on each of those occasions, I received such reprehensive expostulations from her mother, as convinced me that, if I wished to keep the situation, I must even let Miss Matilda go on in her own way.
玛蒂尔达·默里小姐是个名副其实的小伙子，这一点无需多言。她比她姐姐小两岁半左右；她的五官更大，肤色更深。她可能会成为一个漂亮的女人；但她骨量太大，笨拙得不能称为漂亮女孩，目前她对此并不在意。罗莎莉了解她所有的魅力，并认为它们比实际的魅力更伟大，并且比她应该做的更加重视它们，如果它们有三倍的话。玛蒂尔达认为自己已经好了，但并不关心这件事。她更不关心心灵的修养和装饰性成就的获得。她学习功课和练习音乐的方式注定会让任何家庭女教师感到绝望。尽管她的任务既短又容易，但即使要完成，它们也会在任何时间、以任何方式被含糊其辞。但一般都是在最不方便的时候，对她来说最没有好处，对我来说最不满意：短短的半个小时的练习就这样度过了。与此同时，她毫不留情地辱骂我，要么是因为我打断了她的纠正，要么是因为我没有在她犯错误之前纠正她的错误，或者是一些同样不合理的事情。有一两次，我大胆地对她的这种不理智的行为进行了严肃的规劝，但她的行为却让我很不舒服。但每一次，我都收到了她母亲的严厉劝告，这让我确信，如果我想保持这种情况，我什至必须让玛蒂尔达小姐继续按照她自己的方式行事。

When her lessons were over, however, her ill-humour was generally over too: while riding her spirited pony, or romping with the dogs or her brothers and sister, but especially with her dear brother John, she was as happy as a lark. As an animal, Matilda was all right, full of life, vigour, and activity; as an intelligent being, she was barbarously ignorant, indocile, careless and irrational; and, consequently, very distressing to one who had the task of cultivating her understanding, reforming her manners, and aiding her to acquire those ornamental attainments which, unlike her sister, she despised as much as the rest. Her mother was partly aware of her deficiencies, and gave me many a lecture as to how I should try to form her tastes, and endeavour to rouse and cherish her dormant vanity; and, by insinuating, skilful flattery, to win her attention to the desired objects—which I would not do; and how I should prepare and smooth the path of learning till she could glide along it without the least exertion to herself: which I could not, for nothing can be taught to any purpose without some little exertion on the part of the learner.
然而，当她的课程结束时，她的坏脾气也基本上消失了：当骑着她活泼的小马，或者与狗或她的兄弟姐妹嬉戏时，尤其是与她亲爱的弟弟约翰在一起时，她高兴得像百灵鸟。作为一只动物，玛蒂尔达一切都很好，充满生机、活力和活力。作为一个聪明人，她却野蛮无知、不听话、粗心大意、缺乏理性。因此，对于一个负责培养她的理解力、改变她的举止、帮助她获得装饰性成就的人来说，这是非常痛苦的，与她的姐姐不同，她和其他人一样鄙视这些装饰性的成就。她的母亲部分地意识到了她的不足，并给了我很多教训，告诉我应该如何努力形成她的品味，并努力唤醒和珍惜她休眠的虚荣心。然后，通过含沙射影、巧妙的奉承，吸引她对想要的东西的注意——但我不会这样做；以及我应该如何准备和铺平学习的道路，直到她能够毫不费力地沿着这条路滑行：而我却做不到，因为如果学习者不付出一点点努力，任何东西都无法达到任何目的。

As a moral agent, Matilda was reckless, headstrong, violent, and unamenable to reason. One proof of the deplorable state of her mind was, that from her father’s example she had learned to swear like a trooper. Her mother was greatly shocked at the ‘unlady-like trick,’ and wondered ‘how she had picked it up.’ ‘But you can soon break her of it, Miss Grey,’ said she: ‘it is only a habit; and if you will just gently remind her every time she does so, I am sure she will soon lay it aside.’ I not only ‘gently reminded’ her, I tried to impress upon her how wrong it was, and how distressing to the ears of decent people: but all in vain: I was only answered by a careless laugh, and, ‘Oh, Miss Grey, how shocked you are! I’m so glad!’ or, ‘Well! I can’t help it; papa shouldn’t have taught me: I learned it all from him; and maybe a bit from the coachman.’
作为一个道德主体，玛蒂尔达鲁莽、任性、暴力且不讲道理。她的心态可悲的一个证据是，从她父亲的榜样中，她学会了像士兵一样说脏话。她的母亲对这种“不淑女般的伎俩”感到非常震惊，并想知道“她是怎么学会的。” “如果你每次都温柔地提醒她，我相信她很快就会把它放在一边。”我不仅“温柔地提醒”她，我还试图让她记住，这件事是多么错误，让她感到多么痛苦。正派人的耳朵：但一切都是徒劳的：回答我的只是漫不经心的笑声，并且，“哦，格雷小姐，你多么震惊！”我很高兴！”或者，“好吧！我情不自禁；爸爸不应该教我：我都是从他那里学来的；也许还有来自车夫的一点。

Her brother John, alias Master Murray, was about eleven when I came: a fine, stout, healthy boy, frank and good-natured in the main, and might have been a decent lad had he been properly educated; but now he was as rough as a young bear, boisterous, unruly, unprincipled, untaught, unteachable—at least, for a governess under his mother’s eye. His masters at school might be able to manage him better—for to school he was sent, greatly to my relief, in the course of a year; in a state, it is true, of scandalous ignorance as to Latin, as well as the more useful though more neglected things: and this, doubtless, would all be laid to the account of his education having been entrusted to an ignorant female teacher, who had presumed to take in hand what she was wholly incompetent to perform. I was not delivered from his brother till full twelve months after, when he also was despatched in the same state of disgraceful ignorance as the former.
我来的时候，她的弟弟约翰，又名默里少爷，大约十一岁：一个优秀、粗壮、健康的男孩，总的来说，坦率、善良，如果他受过适当的教育，可能会是一个正派的小伙子；但他是个正派的小伙子。但现在他却像头小熊一样粗野，喧闹、不守规矩、没有原则、没有教养、不可教——至少，对于一个在他母亲眼皮子底下的家庭教师来说是这样。他在学校的老师也许能够更好地管理他——因为一年之内他就被送到了学校，这让我松了口气。诚然，他对拉丁语以及其他更有用但更被忽视的东西一无所知：毫无疑问，这一切都归咎于他的教育被委托给了一位无知的女教师，她竟妄想接手她完全无能力完成的事情。直到整整十二个月后，我才从他的兄弟手中解救出来，当时他也像前者一样，在可耻的无知状态下被送走。

Master Charles was his mother’s peculiar darling. He was little more than a year younger than John, but much smaller, paler, and less active and robust; a pettish, cowardly, capricious, selfish little fellow, only active in doing mischief, and only clever in inventing falsehoods: not simply to hide his faults, but, in mere malicious wantonness, to bring odium upon others. In fact, Master Charles was a very great nuisance to me: it was a trial of patience to live with him peaceably; to watch over him was worse; and to teach him, or pretend to teach him, was inconceivable. At ten years old, he could not read correctly the easiest line in the simplest book; and as, according to his mother’s principle, he was to be told every word, before he had time to hesitate or examine its orthography, and never even to be informed, as a stimulant to exertion, that other boys were more forward than he, it is not surprising that he made but little progress during the two years I had charge of his education. His minute portions of Latin grammar, &c., were to be repeated over to him, till he chose to say he knew them, and then he was to be helped to say them; if he made mistakes in his little easy sums in arithmetic, they were to be shown him at once, and the sum done for him, instead of his being left to exercise his faculties in finding them out himself; so that, of course, he took no pains to avoid mistakes, but frequently set down his figures at random, without any calculation at all.
查尔斯少爷是他母亲的特别宠儿。他比约翰小一岁多一点，但身材矮小，肤色苍白，也没有约翰那么活跃和健壮。一个娇气、懦弱、反复无常、自私的小家伙，只喜欢恶作剧，只擅长编造谎言：不仅是为了掩饰自己的错误，而且纯粹是恶意肆意地给别人带来耻辱。事实上，查尔斯大师对我来说是一个非常大的麻烦：与他和平相处是对耐心的考验；监视他更糟糕；教他，或者假装教他，是不可思议的。十岁的时候，他连最简单的书里最简单的一行字都读不懂；因为，根据他母亲的原则，在他有时间犹豫或检查其拼写之前，他要被告知每一个字，甚至永远不会被告知，作为努力的兴奋剂，其他男孩比他更先进，在我负责他的教育的两年里，他进步甚微，这并不奇怪。他的拉丁语语法的微小部分，等等，将被重复给他听，直到他选择说他知道它们，然后他将被帮助说出来；如果他在算术中犯了一些简单的算术错误，就会立即向他展示错误，并为他算出总和，而不是让他自己运用自己的能力来找出错误。因此，他自然不会刻意避免错误，而是经常随意地记下数字，根本不做任何计算。

I did not invariably confine myself to these rules: it was against my conscience to do so; but I seldom could venture to deviate from them in the slightest degree, without incurring the wrath of my little pupil, and subsequently of his mamma; to whom he would relate my transgressions maliciously exaggerated, or adorned with embellishments of his own; and often, in consequence, was I on the point of losing or resigning my situation. But, for their sakes at home, I smothered my pride and suppressed my indignation, and managed to struggle on till my little tormentor was despatched to school; his father declaring that home education was ‘no go; for him, it was plain; his mother spoiled him outrageously, and his governess could make no hand of him at all.’
我并不总是将自己限制在这些规则中：这样做违背了我的良心；这样做是违背我的良心的。但我很少敢冒险哪怕有一丝一毫的偏离，否则就会招致我的小学生的愤怒，随后也会招致他妈妈的愤怒。他会恶意夸大我的过错，或者用他自己的修饰来描述我的过错。结果，我常常面临失去或放弃自己处境的境地。但为了家里的他们，我强忍着骄傲，压抑着愤慨，努力奋斗着，直到把我的小折磨者送去学校；他的父亲宣称家庭教育“行不通”；对他来说，这很简单；他的母亲把他宠坏了，他的家庭教师根本无法管束他。

A few more observations about Horton Lodge and its ongoings, and I have done with dry description for the present. The house was a very respectable one; superior to Mr. Bloomfield’s, both in age, size, and magnificence: the garden was not so tastefully laid out; but instead of the smooth-shaven lawn, the young trees guarded by palings, the grove of upstart poplars, and the plantation of firs, there was a wide park, stocked with deer, and beautified by fine old trees. The surrounding country itself was pleasant, as far as fertile fields, flourishing trees, quiet green lanes, and smiling hedges with wild-flowers scattered along their banks, could make it; but it was depressingly flat to one born and nurtured among the rugged hills of -.
关于霍顿旅馆及其进展的更多观察，我目前已经完成了干巴巴的描述。这所房子是一栋非常体面的房子。无论是年代、规模还是华丽，都比布卢姆菲尔德先生的花园要好：花园布置得不那么雅致；但是，这里没有修剪整齐的草坪、栅栏守护的小树、暴发的杨树林和冷杉种植园，而是一个宽阔的公园，里面饲养着鹿，并被精美的老树美化了。周围的乡村本身就很宜人，肥沃的田野，茂盛的树木，安静的绿色小巷，以及微笑的树篱，河岸上散布着野花，一切都可以做到。但对于在崎岖的山丘中出生和长大的人来说，这里的平坦得令人沮丧。

We were situated nearly two miles from the village church, and, consequently, the family carriage was put in requisition every Sunday morning, and sometimes oftener. Mr. and Mrs. Murray generally thought it sufficient to show themselves at church once in the course of the day; but frequently the children preferred going a second time to wandering about the grounds all the day with nothing to do. If some of my pupils chose to walk and take me with them, it was well for me; for otherwise my position in the carriage was to be crushed into the corner farthest from the open window, and with my back to the horses: a position which invariably made me sick; and if I were not actually obliged to leave the church in the middle of the service, my devotions were disturbed with a feeling of languor and sickliness, and the tormenting fear of its becoming worse: and a depressing headache was generally my companion throughout the day, which would otherwise have been one of welcome rest, and holy, calm enjoyment.
我们距离乡村教堂近两英里，因此，家庭马车每个星期天早上都会被征用，有时甚至更频繁。默里先生和夫人普遍认为一天中去教堂一次就足够了。但孩子们常常宁愿再去一次，也不愿整天在院子里无所事事地闲逛。如果我的一些学生选择带着我一起步行，那对我来说是件好事；否则，我在马车上的位置就会被挤到离开着的窗户最远的角落里，而且我背对着马：这种位置总是让我感到恶心。如果我实际上没有被迫在礼拜中途离开教堂，我的灵修就会被一种倦怠和病态的感觉以及对情况变得更糟的折磨人的恐惧所扰乱：而令人沮丧的头痛通常伴随着我一整天，否则这将是一种受欢迎的休息、神圣、平静的享受。

‘It’s very odd, Miss Grey, that the carriage should always make you sick: it never makes ME,’ remarked Miss Matilda,
“很奇怪，格雷小姐，马车总是让你感到恶心：它从来不会让我生病，”玛蒂尔达小姐说，

‘Nor me either,’ said her sister; ‘but I dare say it would, if I sat where she does—such a nasty, horrid place, Miss Grey; I wonder how you can bear it!’
“我也一样，”她姐姐说。 “但我敢说，如果我坐在她坐的地方，那就会了——真是一个肮脏、可怕的地方，格雷小姐；我不知道你怎么能忍受！

‘I am obliged to bear it, since no choice is left me,’—I might have answered; but in tenderness for their feelings I only replied,—‘Oh! it is but a short way, and if I am not sick in church, I don’t mind it.’
“我不得不忍受它，因为我别无选择。”——我可能会这样回答。但出于对他们感情的温柔，我只是回答说：“哦！只是很短的路，如果我没有生病去教堂，我不介意。

If I were called upon to give a description of the usual divisions and arrangements of the day, I should find it a very difficult matter. I had all my meals in the schoolroom with my pupils, at such times as suited their fancy: sometimes they would ring for dinner before it was half cooked; sometimes they would keep it waiting on the table for above an hour, and then be out of humour because the potatoes were cold, and the gravy covered with cakes of solid fat; sometimes they would have tea at four; frequently, they would storm at the servants because it was not in precisely at five; and when these orders were obeyed, by way of encouragement to punctuality, they would keep it on the table till seven or eight.
如果让我描述一下当天的日常安排和安排，我会发现这是一件非常困难的事情。我所有的饭菜都是在教室里和我的学生们一起吃的，时间适合他们的喜好：有时他们会在饭菜半熟之前敲响电话；有时他们会把土豆放在桌子上一个多小时，然后就变得不幽默，因为土豆是冷的，肉汁上覆盖着固体脂肪的蛋糕。有时他们四点钟喝茶；他们常常因为时间还不到五点而冲向仆人。当这些命令得到遵守时，为了鼓励守时，他们会把它放在桌子上直到七点或八点。

Their hours of study were managed in much the same way; my judgment or convenience was never once consulted. Sometimes Matilda and John would determine ‘to get all the plaguy business over before breakfast,’ and send the maid to call me up at half-past five, without any scruple or apology; sometimes, I was told to be ready precisely at six, and, having dressed in a hurry, came down to an empty room, and after waiting a long time in suspense, discovered that they had changed their minds, and were still in bed; or, perhaps, if it were a fine summer morning, Brown would come to tell me that the young ladies and gentlemen had taken a holiday, and were gone out; and then I was kept waiting for breakfast till I was almost ready to faint: they having fortified themselves with something before they went.
他们的学习时间管理方式大致相同。我的判断或方便从未被咨询过。有时，玛蒂尔达和约翰会决定“在早餐前把所有烦人的事情都处理掉”，并派女仆在五点半给我打电话，毫无顾忌，也不道歉；有时，我被告知要在六点准时准备好，然后匆匆穿好衣服，来到一个空房间，在悬疑中等待了很长时间后，发现他们改变了主意，还在床上；或者，如果这是一个晴朗的夏日早晨，布朗会来告诉我，年轻的女士们先生们已经放假了，出去了。然后我一直在等早餐，直到我快要晕倒了：他们在走之前给自己补充了一些东西。

Often they would do their lessons in the open air; which I had nothing to say against: except that I frequently caught cold by sitting on the damp grass, or from exposure to the evening dew, or some insidious draught, which seemed to have no injurious effect on them. It was quite right that they should be hardy; yet, surely, they might have been taught some consideration for others who were less so. But I must not blame them for what was, perhaps, my own fault; for I never made any particular objections to sitting where they pleased; foolishly choosing to risk the consequences, rather than trouble them for my convenience. Their indecorous manner of doing their lessons was quite as remarkable as the caprice displayed in their choice of time and place. While receiving my instructions, or repeating what they had learned, they would lounge upon the sofa, lie on the rug, stretch, yawn, talk to each other, or look out of the window; whereas, I could not so much as stir the fire, or pick up the handkerchief I had dropped, without being rebuked for inattention by one of my pupils, or told that ‘mamma would not like me to be so careless.’
他们经常在露天上课。我没有什么可反对的：只是我经常因为坐在潮湿的草地上，或者因为暴露在晚间的露水，或者一些阴险的气流中而感冒，但这似乎对他们没有有害影响。他们应该吃苦耐劳，这是完全正确的。然而，可以肯定的是，他们可能被教导要为其他不那么关心的人考虑一些。但我不能因为我自己的过错而责怪他们。因为我从来没有特别反对坐在他们喜欢的地方。愚蠢地选择冒后果的风险，而不是为了我的方便而麻烦他们。他们上课时的无礼态度与他们在选择时间和地点时所表现出的反复无常一样引人注目。在接受我的指示或重复他们所学的内容时，他们会懒洋洋地躺在沙发上，躺在地毯上，伸伸懒腰，打哈欠，互相交谈，或者看看窗外；然而，我什至无法搅动火，或捡起掉落的手帕，而不被我的一个学生因注意力不集中而斥责，或被告知“妈妈不希望我这么粗心”。

The servants, seeing in what little estimation the governess was held by both parents and children, regulated their behaviour by the same standard. I have frequently stood up for them, at the risk of some injury to myself, against the tyranny and injustice of their young masters and mistresses; and I always endeavoured to give them as little trouble as possible: but they entirely neglected my comfort, despised my requests, and slighted my directions. All servants, I am convinced, would not have done so; but domestics in general, being ignorant and little accustomed to reason and reflection, are too easily corrupted by the carelessness and bad example of those above them; and these, I think, were not of the best order to begin with.
仆人们看到父母和孩子对家庭女教师的评价是多么的低，就用同样的标准来规范他们的行为。我经常冒着受伤的危险，为他们挺身而出，反对他们少爷少情妇的暴政和不公正；我总是尽力尽量少给他们添麻烦，但他们完全忽视了我的安慰，蔑视我的要求，轻视我的指示。我相信，所有的仆人都不会这样做。但一般家庭成员无知，不习惯理性和反思，很容易被上级的粗心大意和不良榜样所腐蚀。我认为，这些一开始就不是最好的顺序。

I sometimes felt myself degraded by the life I led, and ashamed of submitting to so many indignities; and sometimes I thought myself a fool for caring so much about them, and feared I must be sadly wanting in Christian humility, or that charity which ‘suffereth long and is kind, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, beareth all things, endureth all things.’
有时我觉得自己因自己的生活而受到侮辱，并为承受如此多的侮辱而感到羞愧；有时我觉得自己太关心他们了，真是个傻瓜，担心自己一定缺乏基督徒的谦卑，或者那种“长久忍耐、仁慈、不求自己的利益、不轻易发怒、承受一切”的仁慈，凡事忍耐。

But, with time and patience, matters began to be slightly ameliorated: slowly, it is true, and almost imperceptibly; but I got rid of my male pupils (that was no trifling advantage), and the girls, as I intimated before concerning one of them, became a little less insolent, and began to show some symptoms of esteem. ‘Miss Grey was a queer creature: she never flattered, and did not praise them half enough; but whenever she did speak favourably of them, or anything belonging to them, they could be quite sure her approbation was sincere. She was very obliging, quiet, and peaceable in the main, but there were some things that put her out of temper: they did not much care for that, to be sure, but still it was better to keep her in tune; as when she was in a good humour she would talk to them, and be very agreeable and amusing sometimes, in her way; which was quite different to mamma’s, but still very well for a change. She had her own opinions on every subject, and kept steadily to them—very tiresome opinions they often were; as she was always thinking of what was right and what was wrong, and had a strange reverence for matters connected with religion, and an unaccountable liking to good people.’
但是，随着时间和耐心的推移，情况开始略有改善：慢慢地，这是真的，而且几乎是难以察觉的；但我摆脱了我的男学生（这可不是微不足道的优势），而女孩们，正如我之前提到的其中一个那样，变得不那么傲慢了，并开始表现出一些尊重的迹象。 “格雷小姐是个奇怪的人：她从不奉承他们，也没有对他们给予足够的赞扬；但每当她确实称赞他们或属于他们的任何东西时，他们都可以确信她的认可是真诚的。她大体上非常乐于助人、安静和平和，但有些事情让她脾气暴躁：当然，他们不太在意这一点，但还是让她保持一致更好；当她心情好的时候，她会和他们说话，有时会以她的方式非常令人愉快和有趣。这和妈妈的很不一样，但还是很适合改变一下。她对每个问题都有自己的看法，并且坚持不懈——这些看法常常是非常令人厌烦的。因为她总是在思考什么是对的，什么是错的，并且对与宗教有关的事物有一种奇怪的尊重，并且对好人有一种莫名的喜爱。

CHAPTER VIII—THE ‘COMING OUT’
第八章——“出柜”

At eighteen, Miss Murray was to emerge from the quiet obscurity of the schoolroom into the full blaze of the fashionable world—as much of it, at least, as could be had out of London; for her papa could not be persuaded to leave his rural pleasures and pursuits, even for a few weeks’ residence in town. She was to make her debut on the third of January, at a magnificent ball, which her mamma proposed to give to all the nobility and choice gentry of O—and its neighbourhood for twenty miles round. Of course, she looked forward to it with the wildest impatience, and the most extravagant anticipations of delight.
十八岁那年，默里小姐即将从默默无闻的教室走入灯火辉煌的时尚世界——至少与伦敦以外的地方一样。因为她的爸爸无法被说服离开他的乡村乐趣和追求，即使是在城里住几个星期。她将于 1 月 3 日在一场盛大的舞会上首次亮相，她的妈妈提议为 O 及其周围二十英里的所有贵族和上流绅士举办这次舞会。当然，她怀着最不耐烦的期待，也怀着最奢侈的喜悦期待。

‘Miss Grey,’ said she, one evening, a month before the allimportant day, as I was perusing a long and extremely interesting letter of my sister’s—which I had just glanced at in the morning to see that it contained no very bad news, and kept till now, unable before to find a quiet moment for reading it,—‘Miss Grey, do put away that dull, stupid letter, and listen to me! I’m sure my talk must be far more amusing than that.’
“格雷小姐，”一天晚上，在最重要的一天之前一个月，我正在仔细阅读姐姐的一封又长又非常有趣的信——我早上刚刚看了一眼，发现里面没有什么坏消息。 ”，直到现在，都无法找到一个安静的时刻来阅读它，“格雷小姐，请把那封乏味、愚蠢的信收起来，听我说！我确信我的演讲一定比那有趣得多。

She seated herself on the low stool at my feet; and I, suppressing a sigh of vexation, began to fold up the epistle.
她坐在我脚边的矮凳上。我强忍着一阵烦恼的叹息，开始折叠这封信。

‘You should tell the good people at home not to bore you with such long letters,’ said she; ‘and, above all, do bid them write on proper note-paper, and not on those great vulgar sheets. You should see the charming little lady-like notes mamma writes to her friends.’
“你应该告诉家里的好人，不要给你写这么长的信，”她说。 “最重要的是，请他们在合适的便条纸上写字，而不是在那些粗俗的大纸上写字。你应该看看妈妈写给朋友们的迷人小淑女般的便条。”

‘The good people at home,’ replied I, ‘know very well that the longer their letters are, the better I like them. I should be very sorry to receive a charming little lady-like note from any of them; and I thought you were too much of a lady yourself, Miss Murray, to talk about the ‘vulgarity’ of writing on a large sheet of paper.’
“家里的好人，”我回答道，“很清楚他们的信越长，我就越喜欢他们。”如果我收到他们中任何一个人写的一张迷人的小淑女般的便条，我会感到非常遗憾。默里小姐，我认为你自己也太淑女了，无法谈论在大纸上写字的“粗俗”。

‘Well, I only said it to tease you. But now I want to talk about the ball; and to tell you that you positively must put off your holidays till it is over.’
‘好吧，我只是为了逗你玩而已。但现在我想谈谈球；并告诉你，你必须推迟假期，直到假期结束。”

‘Why so?—I shall not be present at the ball.’
“为什么会这样？——我不会出席舞会。”

‘No, but you will see the rooms decked out before it begins, and hear the music, and, above all, see me in my splendid new dress. I shall be so charming, you’ll be ready to worship me—you really must stay.’
“不，但你会在比赛开始前看到房间装饰完毕，听到音乐，最重要的是，看到我穿着华丽的新衣服。我会变得如此迷人，你会准备好崇拜我——你真的必须留下来。

‘I should like to see you very much; but I shall have many opportunities of seeing you equally charming, on the occasion of some of the numberless balls and parties that are to be, and I cannot disappoint my friends by postponing my return so long.’
“我非常想见到你；但我将有很多机会看到同样迷人的你，在即将举行的无数舞会和聚会上，我不能因为推迟这么久的回归而让我的朋友们失望。

‘Oh, never mind your friends! Tell them we won’t let you go.’
‘哦，别介意你的朋友们！告诉他们我们不会让你走。

‘But, to say the truth, it would be a disappointment to myself: I long to see them as much as they to see me—perhaps more.’
“但是，说实话，这会让我自己感到失望：我渴望见到他们，就像他们渴望见到我一样——也许更多。”

‘Well, but it is such a short time.’
“嗯，不过时间太短了。”

‘Nearly a fortnight by my computation; and, besides, I cannot bear the thoughts of a Christmas spent from home: and, moreover, my sister is going to be married.’
“根据我的计算，将近两周；而且，除此之外，我无法忍受在家度过圣诞节的想法：而且，我的妹妹就要结婚了。

‘Is she—when?’
“她是——什么时候？”

‘Not till next month; but I want to be there to assist her in making preparations, and to make the best of her company while we have her.’
“直到下个月；但我想在那里协助她做好准备，并在我们有她的时候充分利用她的陪伴。”

‘Why didn’t you tell me before?’
“你为什么不提前告诉我？”

‘I’ve only got the news in this letter, which you stigmatize as dull and stupid, and won’t let me read.’
“我只在这封信中得到了消息，你认为这封信无聊而愚蠢，并且不让我读。”

‘To whom is she to be married?’
“她要嫁给谁？”

‘To Mr. Richardson, the vicar of a neighbouring parish.’
“致理查森先生，邻近教区的牧师。”

‘Is he rich?’
“他很有钱吗？”

‘No; only comfortable.’
'不;只是舒服。’

‘Is he handsome?’
'他帅吗？'

‘No; only decent.’
'不;只是体面。

‘Young?’
'年轻的？'

‘No; only middling.’
'不;只是中等。’

‘Oh, mercy! what a wretch! What sort of a house is it?’
‘哦，怜悯！真是个可怜虫！这是一座什么样的房子？

‘A quiet little vicarage, with an ivy-clad porch, an old-fashioned garden, and—‘
“一座安静的小牧师住宅，有一个长满常春藤的门廊，一个老式的花园，还有——”

‘Oh, stop!—you’ll make me sick. How CAN she bear it?’
“哦，停下来！——你会让我恶心的。”她怎么能忍受呢？

‘I expect she’ll not only be able to bear it, but to be very happy. You did not ask me if Mr. Richardson were a good, wise, or amiable man; I could have answered Yes, to all these questions—at least so Mary thinks, and I hope she will not find herself mistaken.’
“我希望她不仅能够承受，而且会非常高兴。你没有问我理查森先生是否是一个善良、明智或和蔼可亲的人；对于所有这些问题，我本可以回答“是”——至少玛丽是这么认为的，我希望她不会发现自己错了。

‘But—miserable creature! how can she think of spending her life there, cooped up with that nasty old man; and no hope of change?’
‘但是——可怜的生物！她怎么能想到在那里度过自己的一生，和那个讨厌的老头关在一起？没有改变的希望吗？

‘He is not old: he’s only six or seven and thirty; and she herself is twenty-eight, and as sober as if she were fifty.’
‘他并不老：他只有六岁、七岁和三十岁；她自己二十八岁了，却像五十岁一样清醒。

‘Oh! that’s better then—they’re well matched; but do they call him the ‘worthy vicar’?’
'哦！那更好——他们很般配；但他们称他为“值得尊敬的牧师”吗？

‘I don’t know; but if they do, I believe he merits the epithet.’
'我不知道;但如果他们这样做了，我相信他配得上这个绰号。

‘Mercy, how shocking! and will she wear a white apron and make pies and puddings?’
‘慈悲，太令人震惊了！她会系上白围裙做馅饼和布丁吗？

‘I don’t know about the white apron, but I dare say she will make pies and puddings now and then; but that will be no great hardship, as she has done it before.’
“我不知道白色围裙的情况，但我敢说她会时不时地做馅饼和布丁；但这并不是什么大困难，因为她以前已经做过了。”

‘And will she go about in a plain shawl, and a large straw bonnet, carrying tracts and bone soup to her husband’s poor parishioners?’
“她会披着朴素的围巾，戴着大草帽，给她丈夫可怜的教区居民带来传单和骨头汤吗？”

‘I’m not clear about that; but I dare say she will do her best to make them comfortable in body and mind, in accordance with our mother’s example.’
“我不清楚这一点；但我敢说，她会效仿我们母亲的榜样，尽力让他们身心舒适。”

CHAPTER IX—THE BALL
第九章——球

’Now, Miss Grey,’ exclaimed Miss Murray, immediately I entered the schoolroom, after having taken off my outdoor garments, upon returning from my four weeks’ recreation, ‘Now—shut the door, and sit down, and I’ll tell you all about the ball.’
“现在，格雷小姐，”默里小姐喊道，当我从四个星期的娱乐回来后，脱掉户外服装后，立即进入教室，“现在——关上门，坐下来，我会告诉你的。”你们都是关于球的。

‘No—damn it, no!’ shouted Miss Matilda. ‘Hold your tongue, can’t ye? and let me tell her about my new mare—SUCH a splendour, Miss Grey! a fine blood mare—‘
“不——该死的，不！”玛蒂尔达小姐喊道。 ‘管住你的舌头，可以吗？让我告诉她我的新母马——真是太棒了，格雷小姐！一匹优良的血母马——‘

‘Do be quiet, Matilda; and let me tell my news first.’
“保持安静，玛蒂尔达；让我先告诉大家我的消息。

‘No, no, Rosalie; you’ll be such a damned long time over it—she shall hear me first—I’ll be hanged if she doesn’t!’
“不，不，罗莎莉；你会花很长的时间——她会先听到我的——如果她不听我的话，我就会被绞死！

‘I’m sorry to hear, Miss Matilda, that you’ve not got rid of that shocking habit yet.’
“玛蒂尔达小姐，听说你还没有改掉那个令人震惊的习惯，我感到很遗憾。”

‘Well, I can’t help it: but I’ll never say a wicked word again, if you’ll only listen to me, and tell Rosalie to hold her confounded tongue.’
“好吧，我也没办法：但我再也不会说一句恶毒的话了，只要你听我说，并告诉罗莎莉闭嘴。”

Rosalie remonstrated, and I thought I should have been torn in pieces between them; but Miss Matilda having the loudest voice, her sister at length gave in, and suffered her to tell her story first: so I was doomed to hear a long account of her splendid mare, its breeding and pedigree, its paces, its action, its spirit, &c., and of her own amazing skill and courage in riding it; concluding with an assertion that she could clear a five-barred gate ‘like winking,’ that papa said she might hunt the next time the hounds met, and mamma had ordered a bright scarlet hunting-habit for her.
罗莎莉抗议，我想我应该在她们中间被撕成碎片。但玛蒂尔达小姐的声音最大，她的妹妹最终屈服了，让她先讲她的故事：所以我注定要听到她那匹美丽的母马的长篇叙述，它的繁殖和血统，它的步伐，它的行动，它的故事。精神，等等，以及她自己惊人的技巧和勇气；最后断言她可以“像眨眼一样”穿过五道栅栏门，爸爸说下次猎犬相遇时她可能会去打猎，妈妈还为她订购了一套鲜红色的狩猎服。

‘Oh, Matilda! what stories you are telling!’ exclaimed her sister.
‘噢，玛蒂尔达！你在讲什么故事！”她姐姐惊呼道。

‘Well,’ answered she, no whit abashed, ‘I know I COULD clear a five-barred gate, if I tried, and papa WILL say I may hunt, and mamma WILL order the habit when I ask it.’
“好吧，”她毫不羞愧地回答，“我知道，如果我尝试的话，我可以通过五道栅栏门，爸爸会说我可以打猎，当我提出要求时，妈妈会命令我养成这个习惯。”

‘Well, now get along,’ replied Miss Murray; ‘and do, dear Matilda, try to be a little more lady-like. Miss Grey, I wish you would tell her not to use such shocking words; she will call her horse a mare: it is so inconceivably shocking! and then she uses such dreadful expressions in describing it: she must have learned it from the grooms. It nearly puts me into fits when she begins.’
“好吧，现在就相处吧，”默里小姐回答道。 “亲爱的玛蒂尔达，一定要努力表现得更像一位淑女。”格雷小姐，我希望你能告诉她不要使用如此令人震惊的词语；她会称她的马为母马：这真是令人难以置信的震惊！然后她用如此可怕的表情来描述：她一定是从新郎那里学来的。当她开始时，我几乎要发疯了。

‘I learned it from papa, you ass! and his jolly friends,’ said the young lady, vigorously cracking a hunting-whip, which she habitually carried in her hand. ‘I’m as good judge of horseflesh as the best of ‘m.’
“我是从爸爸那里学来的，你这个混蛋！和他快乐的朋友们。”年轻女士一边说，一边用力地敲打着她惯常握在手里的猎鞭。 “我对马肉的判断能力和对‘我’的判断能力一样出色。”

‘Well, now get along, you shocking girl! I really shall take a fit if you go on in such a way. And now, Miss Grey, attend to me; I’m going to tell you about the ball. You must be dying to hear about it, I know. Oh, SUCH a ball! You never saw or heard, or read, or dreamt of anything like it in all your life. The decorations, the entertainment, the supper, the music were indescribable! and then the guests! There were two noblemen, three baronets, and five titled ladies, and other ladies and gentlemen innumerable. The ladies, of course, were of no consequence to me, except to put me in a good humour with myself, by showing how ugly and awkward most of them were; and the best, mamma told me,—the most transcendent beauties among them, were nothing to me. As for me, Miss Grey—I’m so SORRY you didn’t see me! I was CHARMING—wasn’t I, Matilda?’
‘好吧，现在就相处吧，你这个令人震惊的女孩！再这样下去我真要生气了。现在，格雷小姐，照顾我吧；我要告诉你关于球的事。我知道你一定很想听这个。哦，真是一个球！你一生中从未见过、听过、读过或梦想过类似的事情。装饰、娱乐、晚餐、音乐都难以形容！然后是客人！其中有两名贵族，三名男爵，五名有爵位的女士，还有无数的其他女士和先生。当然，这些女士们对我来说并不重要，除了通过展示她们中的大多数人有多么丑陋和笨拙之外，让我对自己有好心情。妈妈告诉我，其中最好的——最超凡脱俗的美女，对我来说都不算什么。至于我，格雷小姐——我很抱歉你没有看到我！我很迷人——不是吗，玛蒂尔达？

‘Middling.’
“中等。”

‘No, but I really was—at least so mamma said—and Brown and Williamson. Brown said she was sure no gentleman could set eyes on me without falling in love that minute; and so I may be allowed to be a little vain. I know you think me a shocking, conceited, frivolous girl; but then, you know, I don’t attribute it ALL to my personal attractions: I give some praise to the hairdresser, and some to my exquisitely lovely dress—you must see it to-morrow— white gauze over pink satin—and so SWEETLY made! and a necklace and bracelet of beautiful, large pearls!’
“不，但我确实是——至少妈妈是这么说的——还有布朗和威廉姆森。布朗说她确信没有哪个绅士在看到我的那一刻会不坠入爱河。所以我可以允许有点虚荣。我知道你认为我是一个令人震惊、自负、轻浮的女孩；但是，你知道，我并不把这一切都归因于我个人的吸引力：我对理发师给予了一些赞扬，对我精美可爱的衣服给予了一些赞扬 - 你明天一定会看到它 - 粉红色缎子上的白色纱布 - 所以甜蜜制作！还有一条项链和手链，上面镶满了美丽的大珍珠！”

‘I have no doubt you looked very charming: but should that delight you so very much?’
“我毫不怀疑你看起来非常迷人：但这会让你如此高兴吗？”

‘Oh, no!—not that alone: but, then, I was so much admired; and I made so MANY conquests in that one night—you’d be astonished to hear—‘
“哦，不！——不仅如此：但是，我是如此受人钦佩；在那一晚我取得了如此多的胜利——你会惊讶地听到——”

‘But what good will they do you?’
“但是它们对你有什么好处呢？”

‘What good! Think of any woman asking that!’
‘多好啊！想想有哪个女人会问这个问题！”

‘Well, I should think one conquest would be enough; and too much, unless the subjugation were mutual.’
“好吧，我认为一次征服就足够了；而且太多了，除非征服是相互的。”

‘Oh, but you know I never agree with you on those points. Now, wait a bit, and I’ll tell you my principal admirers—those who made themselves very conspicuous that night and after: for I’ve been to two parties since. Unfortunately the two noblemen, Lord G—and Lord F—-, were married, or I might have condescended to be particularly gracious to THEM; as it was, I did not: though Lord F—-, who hates his wife, was evidently much struck with me. He asked me to dance with him twice—he is a charming dancer, by-theby, and so am I: you can’t think how well I did—I was astonished at myself. My lord was very complimentary too—rather too much so in fact—and I thought proper to be a little haughty and repellent; but I had the pleasure of seeing his nasty, cross wife ready to perish with spite and vexation—‘
“哦，但你知道我在这些观点上从来不同意你的观点。现在，等一下，我会告诉你我的主要崇拜者——那些在那天晚上和之后让自己非常引人注目的人：因为从那以后我已经参加过两次聚会。不幸的是，两位贵族，G 勋爵和 F 勋爵，已经结婚了，否则我可能会屈尊对他们特别仁慈。事实上，我没有：尽管F勋爵讨厌他的妻子，但显然对我很震惊。他邀请我和他跳舞两次——顺便说一句，他是一位迷人的舞者，我也是：你想象不到我跳得有多好——我对自己感到惊讶。我的主人也非常称赞——事实上，有点过分了——而我认为有点傲慢和令人厌恶是适当的；但我很高兴看到他那令人讨厌、脾气暴躁的妻子准备在怨恨和烦恼中死去——”

‘Oh, Miss Murray! you don’t mean to say that such a thing could really give you pleasure? However cross or—‘
“哦，默里小姐！你不是说这样的事情真的能给你带来快乐吗？不管怎样，或者——‘

‘Well, I know it’s very wrong;—but never mind! I mean to be good some time—only don’t preach now, there’s a good creature. I haven’t told you half yet. Let me see. Oh! I was going to tell you how many unmistakeable admirers I had:Sir Thomas Ashby was one,—Sir Hugh Meltham and Sir Broadley Wilson are old codgers, only fit companions for papa and mamma. Sir Thomas is young, rich, and gay; but an ugly beast, nevertheless: however, mamma says I should not mind that after a few months’ acquaintance. Then, there was Henry Meltham, Sir Hugh’s younger son; rather good-looking, and a pleasant fellow to flirt with: but BEING a younger son, that is all he is good for; then there was young Mr. Green, rich enough, but of no family, and a great stupid fellow, a mere country booby! and then, our good rector, Mr. Hatfield: an HUMBLE admirer he ought to consider himself; but I fear he has forgotten to number humility among his stock of Christian virtues.’
“好吧，我知道这是非常错误的；但没关系！我的意思是有一天要做好人——只是现在不要说教，有一个好人。我还没告诉你一半呢。让我看看。哦！我要告诉你我有多少个明确的崇拜者：托马斯·阿什比爵士就是其中之一，休·梅尔瑟姆爵士和布罗德利·威尔逊爵士都是老家伙，只适合爸爸和妈妈的伴侣。托马斯爵士年轻、富有、快乐。但尽管如此，它还是一头丑陋的野兽：不过，妈妈说，认识几个月后我不应该介意。然后是休爵士的小儿子亨利·梅尔瑟姆。相貌相当英俊，是一个令人愉快的调情人：但作为一个小儿子，这就是他的优点；还有年轻的格林先生，他足够富有，但没有家庭，还有一个大笨蛋，一个乡下的傻瓜！然后，我们的好校长哈特菲尔德先生：他应该认为自己是一个谦卑的崇拜者；但我担心他忘记了谦卑是他的基督教美德之一。

‘Was Mr. Hatfield at the ball?’
“哈特菲尔德先生在舞会上吗？”

‘Yes, to be sure. Did you think he was too good to go?’
是的，当然。你认为他太好了，不能走吗？

‘I thought be might consider it unclerical.’
“我认为他可能会认为这不合法。”

‘By no means. He did not profane his cloth by dancing; but it was with difficulty he could refrain, poor man: he looked as if he were dying to ask my hand just for ONE set; and—oh! by-the-by— he’s got a new curate: that seedy old fellow Mr. Bligh has got his long-wished-for living at last, and is gone.’
'绝不是这样。他并没有因跳舞而亵渎他的衣服；但他很难克制住，可怜的人：他看起来好像很想向我伸出援手，只求一套；他似乎很想向我求婚。还有——哦！顺便说一句——他有了一位新牧师：那个肮脏的老家伙布莱先生终于得到了他渴望已久的生活，并且走了。

‘And what is the new one like?’
“新的怎么样？”

‘Oh, SUCH a beast! Weston his name is. I can give you his description in three words—an insensate, ugly, stupid blockhead. That’s four, but no matter—enough of HIM now.’
‘哦，真是个野兽！他的名字叫韦斯顿。我可以用三个词来形容他——一个麻木不仁、丑陋、愚蠢的傻瓜。那是四个，但没关系——现在他已经够了。

Then she returned to the ball, and gave me a further account of her deportment there, and at the several parties she had since attended; and further particulars respecting Sir Thomas Ashby and Messrs. Meltham, Green, and Hatfield, and the ineffaceable impression she had wrought upon each of them.
然后她回到舞会，向我进一步介绍了她在那里的举止以及此后她参加的几次聚会。以及有关托马斯·阿什比爵士和梅尔瑟姆、格林和哈特菲尔德先生的更多细节，以及她给他们每个人留下的不可磨灭的印象。

‘Well, which of the four do you like best?’ said I, suppressing my third or fourth yawn.
“那么，这四个中你最喜欢哪一个？”我抑制着第三个或第四个哈欠说道。

‘I detest them all!’ replied she, shaking her bright ringlets in vivacious scorn.
“我讨厌他们所有人！”她回答道，轻蔑地摇晃着明亮的卷发。

‘That means, I suppose, ‘I like them all’—but which most?’
“我想，这意味着‘我都喜欢它们’——但最喜欢哪一个呢？”

‘No, I really detest them all; but Harry Meltham is the handsomest and most amusing, and Mr. Hatfield the cleverest, Sir Thomas the wickedest, and Mr. Green the most stupid. But the one I’m to have, I suppose, if I’m doomed to have any of them, is Sir Thomas Ashby.’
“不，我真的讨厌他们所有人；但哈利·梅尔瑟姆最英俊、最有趣，哈特菲尔德先生最聪明，托马斯爵士最邪恶，格林先生最愚蠢。但我想，如果我注定要拥有他们中的任何一个，我想拥有的人就是托马斯·阿什比爵士。

‘Surely not, if he’s so wicked, and if you dislike him?’
“当然不会，如果他这么邪恶，而且你不喜欢他呢？”

‘Oh, I don’t mind his being wicked: he’s all the better for that; and as for disliking him—I shouldn’t greatly object to being Lady Ashby of Ashby Park, if I must marry. But if I could be always young, I would be always single. I should like to enjoy myself thoroughly, and coquet with all the world, till I am on the verge of being called an old maid; and then, to escape the infamy of that, after having made ten thousand conquests, to break all their hearts save one, by marrying some high-born, rich, indulgent husband, whom, on the other hand, fifty ladies were dying to have.’
“哦，我不介意他邪恶：他因此而更好；至于不喜欢他——如果我必须结婚的话，我不应该强烈反对成为阿什比公园的阿什比夫人。但如果我能永远年轻，我就会永远单身。我要尽情享受，向全世界卖弄风骚，直到快要被称为老处女为止。然后，为了摆脱这种耻辱，在征服了一万次之后，为了让除了一个人以外的人都心碎，就嫁给了某个出身高贵、富有、纵容的丈夫，而另一方面，有五十个女士渴望拥有他。 .'

‘Well, as long as you entertain these views, keep single by all means, and never marry at all: not even to escape the infamy of old-maidenhood.’
“好吧，只要你持有这些观点，就一定要保持单身，永远不要结婚：甚至不要逃避老处女的耻辱。”

CHAPTER X—THE CHURCH
第十章教会

’Well, Miss Grey, what do you think of the new curate?’ asked Miss Murray, on our return from church the Sunday after the recommencement of our duties.
“好吧，格雷小姐，你对新任牧师有何看法？”我们重新开始履行职责后的周日，当我们从教堂回来时，默里小姐问道。

‘I can scarcely tell,’ was my reply: ‘I have not even heard him preach.’
“我几乎看不出来，”我回答道，“我什至没有听过他讲道。”

‘Well, but you saw him, didn’t you?’
“好吧，但是你看到他了，不是吗？”

‘Yes, but I cannot pretend to judge of a man’s character by a single cursory glance at his face.’
“是的，但我不能假装通过粗略地看一眼一个人的脸来判断他的性格。”

‘But isn’t he ugly?’
“但是他不丑吗？”

‘He did not strike me as being particularly so; I don’t dislike that cast of countenance: but the only thing I particularly noticed about him was his style of reading; which appeared to me good—infinitely better, at least, than Mr. Hatfield’s. He read the Lessons as if he were bent on giving full effect to every passage; it seemed as if the most careless person could not have helped attending, nor the most ignorant have failed to understand; and the prayers he read as if he were not reading at all, but praying earnestly and sincerely from his own heart.’
“我并没有觉得他特别特别。我并不讨厌他的表情，但我唯一特别注意到的是他的阅读风格；在我看来这很好——至少比哈特菲尔德先生的好得多。他读这些课程时，就好像他决心充分发挥每一段内容的作用。似乎即使是最粗心的人也无法参加，即使是最无知的人也无法理解。他读的祈祷文就好像他根本没有在读，而是发自内心地热切而真诚地祈祷。

‘Oh, yes, that’s all he is good for: he can plod through the service well enough; but he has not a single idea beyond it.’
“哦，是的，这就是他的优点：他可以很好地完成服务；但除此之外他没有任何想法。

‘How do you know?’
'你怎么知道？'

‘Oh! I know perfectly well; I am an excellent judge in such matters. Did you see how he went out of church? stumping along—as if there were nobody there but himself—never looking to the right hand or the left, and evidently thinking of nothing but just getting out of the church, and, perhaps, home to his dinner: his great stupid head could contain no other idea.’
'哦！我非常清楚；在此类问题上我是一位出色的法官。你看到他是怎么走出教堂的吗？他跌跌撞撞地走着——就好像那里除了他自己之外没有人——从不看右手或左手，显然只想着走出教堂，也许回家吃晚饭：他那愚蠢的大脑袋里可以装下没有其他想法。

‘I suppose you would have had him cast a glance into the squire’s pew,’ said I, laughing at the vehemence of her hostility.
“我想你会让他看一眼乡绅的长椅，”我说，嘲笑她的强烈敌意。

‘Indeed! I should have been highly indignant if he had dared to do such a thing!’ replied she, haughtily tossing her head; then, after a moment’s reflection, she added—‘Well, well! I suppose he’s good enough for his place: but I’m glad I’m not dependent on HIM for amusement—that’s all. Did you see how Mr. Hatfield hurried out to get a bow from me, and be in time to put us into the carriage?’
'的确！ “他要是敢做出这样的事，我一定会非常愤慨的！”她傲慢地摇着头回答道。然后，经过片刻的思考，她补充道：“好吧，好吧！我认为他足以胜任他的职位：但我很高兴我不依赖他来娱乐——仅此而已。你看到哈特菲尔德先生急忙跑出来向我鞠躬，并及时把我们送上马车吗？

‘Yes,’ answered I; internally adding, ‘and I thought it somewhat derogatory to his dignity as a clergyman to come flying from the pulpit in such eager haste to shake hands with the squire, and hand his wife and daughters into their carriage: and, moreover, I owe him a grudge for nearly shutting me out of it’; for, in fact, though I was standing before his face, close beside the carriage steps, waiting to get in, he would persist in putting them up and closing the door, till one of the family stopped him by calling out that the governess was not in yet; then, without a word of apology, he departed, wishing them good-morning, and leaving the footman to finish the business.
“是的，”我回答道。内心补充道，“我认为他作为一名牧师的尊严有损于他如此急切地从讲坛上飞来与乡绅握手，并把他的妻子和女儿交给他们的马车：而且，而且，我欠他一种几乎把我拒之门外的怨恨’；事实上，尽管我站在他面前，紧挨着马车台阶，等着上车，他还是坚持把门放好，关上门，直到一位家庭成员阻止了他，大声喊道，家庭女教师正在还没进去；然后，他没有说一句道歉，就离开了，向他们道了早安，留下男仆去处理事情。

Nota bene.—Mr. Hatfield never spoke to me, neither did Sir Hugh or Lady Meltham, nor Mr. Harry or Miss Meltham, nor Mr. Green or his sisters, nor any other lady or gentleman who frequented that church: nor, in fact, any one that visited at Horton Lodge.
Nota bene.——先生。哈特菲尔德从来没有和我说过话，休爵士或梅尔瑟姆夫人，哈里先生或梅尔瑟姆小姐，格林先生或他的姐妹们，以及任何其他经常光顾该教堂的女士或绅士：事实上，也没有任何参观过该教堂的人。在霍顿旅馆。

Miss Murray ordered the carriage again, in the afternoon, for herself and her sister: she said it was too cold for them to enjoy themselves in the garden; and besides, she believed Harry Meltham would be at church. ‘For,’ said she, smiling slyly at her own fair image in the glass, ‘he has been a most exemplary attendant at church these last few Sundays: you would think he was quite a good Christian. And you may go with us, Miss Grey: I want you to see him; he is so greatly improved since he returned from abroad—you can’t think! And besides, then you will have an opportunity of seeing the beautiful Mr. Weston again, and of hearing him preach.’
下午，默里小姐又为她自己和妹妹订了一辆马车：她说天气太冷了，她们不能在花园里玩耍；她说，天气太冷了，她们不能在花园里玩耍。此外，她相信哈利·梅尔瑟姆会去教堂。 “因为，”她对着镜子里自己美丽的形象狡猾地微笑着说，“最近几个星期天，他在教堂里是一位最模范的服务员：你会认为他是一个相当好的基督徒。你可以和我们一起去吗，格雷小姐：我想让你见见他；他从国外回来后进步这么大，你想不到！而且，那时你将有机会再次见到美丽的韦斯顿先生，并听他讲道。

I did hear him preach, and was decidedly pleased with the evangelical truth of his doctrine, as well as the earnest simplicity of his manner, and the clearness and force of his style. It was truly refreshing to hear such a sermon, after being so long accustomed to the dry, prosy discourses of the former curate, and the still less edifying harangues of the rector. Mr. Hatfield would come sailing up the aisle, or rather sweeping along like a whirlwind, with his rich silk gown flying behind him and rustling against the pew doors, mount the pulpit like a conqueror ascending his triumphal car; then, sinking on the velvet cushion in an attitude of studied grace, remain in silent prostration for a certain time; then mutter over a Collect, and gabble through the Lord’s Prayer, rise, draw off one bright lavender glove, to give the congregation the benefit of his sparkling rings, lightly pass his fingers through his well-curled hair, flourish a cambric handkerchief, recite a very short passage, or, perhaps, a mere phrase of Scripture, as a head-piece to his discourse, and, finally, deliver a composition which, as a composition, might be considered good, though far too studied and too artificial to be pleasing to me: the propositions were well laid down, the arguments logically conducted; and yet, it was sometimes hard to listen quietly throughout, without some slight demonstrations of disapproval or impatience.
我确实听过他的讲道，并且对他的教义的福音真理、他的态度的真诚简单、他的风格的清晰和有力感到非常满意。在长期习惯了前牧师干巴巴、乏味的演讲和教区长的长篇大论之后，听到这样的布道真是令人耳目一新。哈特菲尔德先生会在过道上疾驰而来，或者更确切地说，像旋风一样席卷而来，他华丽的丝绸礼服在他身后飞扬，撞击着长椅门沙沙作响，登上讲坛，就像征服者登上他凯旋的汽车一样；然后，以一种刻意优雅的态度沉入天鹅绒垫子上，静默地跪拜一段时间；然后咕哝着收集，喋喋不休地念出主祷文，站起来，脱下一只明亮的薰衣草手套，让会众受益于他闪闪发光的戒指，用手指轻轻地穿过他卷曲的头发，挥舞着一条麻布手帕，背诵一段很短的段落，或者也许仅仅是圣经中的一个短语，作为他演讲的头饰，最后，交付了一篇作文，作为一篇作文，可能被认为是好的，尽管太过研究和过于做作，无法令我满意的是：命题提出得很好，论证也合乎逻辑；然而，有时很难安静地听完整个过程，而不表现出一些轻微的不赞成或不耐烦。

His favourite subjects were church discipline, rites and ceremonies, apostolical succession, the duty of reverence and obedience to the clergy, the atrocious criminality of dissent, the absolute necessity of observing all the forms of godliness, the reprehensible presumption of individuals who attempted to think for themselves in matters connected with religion, or to be guided by their own interpretations of Scripture, and, occasionally (to please his wealthy parishioners) the necessity of deferential obedience from the poor to the rich—supporting his maxims and exhortations throughout with quotations from the Fathers: with whom he appeared to be far better acquainted than with the Apostles and Evangelists, and whose importance he seemed to consider at least equal to theirs. But now and then he gave us a sermon of a different order—what some would call a very good one; but sunless and severe: representing the Deity as a terrible taskmaster rather than a benevolent father. Yet, as I listened, I felt inclined to think the man was sincere in all he said: he must have changed his views, and become decidedly religious, gloomy and austere, yet still devout. But such illusions were usually dissipated, on coming out of church, by hearing his voice in jocund colloquy with some of the Melthams or Greens, or, perhaps, the Murrays themselves; probably laughing at his own sermon, and hoping that he had given the rascally people something to think about; perchance, exulting in the thought that old Betty Holmes would now lay aside the sinful indulgence of her pipe, which had been her daily solace for upwards of thirty years: that George Higgins would be frightened out of his Sabbath evening walks, and Thomas Jackson would be sorely troubled in his conscience, and shaken in his sure and certain hope of a joyful resurrection at the last day.
他最喜欢的主题是教会纪律、仪式和典礼、使徒继承、对神职人员的尊敬和服从的义务、异议的残暴犯罪行为、遵守所有敬虔形式的绝对必要性、试图思考的个人应受谴责的推定。他们在与宗教有关的问题上为自己着想，或者以他们自己对《圣经》的解释为指导，并且偶尔（为了取悦他富有的教区居民）穷人对富人的恭顺服从的必要性——自始至终都引用了来自教父们：他似乎比使徒和福音传教士更熟悉他们，而且他认为他们的重要性至少与他们同等。但他时不时地给我们做一次不同层次的布道——有些人会称之为非常好的布道；但阴暗而严厉：将神描绘成一个可怕的工头，而不是一个仁慈的父亲。然而，当我倾听时，我倾向于认为这个人所说的一切都是真诚的：他一定改变了他的观点，并且变得明显的宗教信仰，阴郁而严肃，但仍然虔诚。 但这种幻想通常会在走出教堂后，听到他与梅尔瑟姆家族或格林家族的一些人，或者也许是默里家族本身进行欢乐的谈话而消散。可能是在嘲笑他自己的布道，并希望他给那些无赖的人们一些思考的机会；也许，她欣喜若狂地想到，老贝蒂·霍姆斯现在将放下对烟斗的罪恶沉迷，三十多年来，烟斗一直是她每天的安慰：乔治·希金斯将被吓得不敢在安息日晚上散步，托马斯·杰克逊将被吓倒。他的良心极度不安，他对末日喜乐复活的确信和确定的希望也动摇了。

Thus, I could not but conclude that Mr. Hatfield was one of those who ‘bind heavy burdens, and grievous to be borne, and lay them upon men’s shoulders, while they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers’; and who ‘make the word of God of none effect by their traditions, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.’ I was well pleased to observe that the new curate resembled him, as far as I could see, in none of these particulars.
因此，我不得不得出这样的结论：哈特菲尔德先生是那些“把沉重的、难以承受的重担绑在人们的肩上，而他们自己却不愿意用一根手指去搬动它们”的人之一；他们“用他们的传统使上帝的话语失效，把人的诫命当作教义来教导。”我很高兴地发现，据我所知，新任牧师在这些细节上没有一个与他相似。

‘Well, Miss Grey, what do you think of him now?’ said Miss Murray, as we took our places in the carriage after service.
“好吧，格雷小姐，你现在觉得他怎么样？”仪式结束后，当我们在马车上就座时，默里小姐说道。

‘No harm still,’ replied I.
“还好，”我回答道。

‘No harm!’ repeated she in amazement. ‘What do you mean?’
“没有伤害！”她惊讶地重复道。 '你是什么意思？'

‘I mean, I think no worse of him than I did before.’
“我的意思是，我对他的看法并不比以前差。”

‘No worse! I should think not indeed—quite the contrary! Is he not greatly improved?’
‘没有更糟了！我认为事实并非如此——恰恰相反！他的进步不是很大吗？

‘Oh, yes; very much indeed,’ replied I; for I had now discovered that it was Harry Meltham she meant, not Mr. Weston. That gentleman had eagerly come forward to speak to the young ladies: a thing he would hardly have ventured to do had their mother been present; he had likewise politely handed them into the carriage. He had not attempted to shut me out, like Mr. Hatfield; neither, of course, had he offered me his assistance (I should not have accepted it, if he had), but as long as the door remained open he had stood smirking and chatting with them, and then lifted his hat and departed to his own abode: but I had scarcely noticed him all the time. My companions, however, had been more observant; and, as we rolled along, they discussed between them not only his looks, words, and actions, but every feature of his face, and every article of his apparel.
'哦是的;确实如此，”我回答道。因为我现在发现她指的是哈利·梅尔瑟姆，而不是韦斯顿先生。那位绅士急切地走上前去和两位年轻女士说话：如果她们的母亲在场，他几乎不敢这么做；但他的母亲却在场。他同样礼貌地将他们送上马车。他并没有像哈特菲尔德先生那样试图将我拒之门外。当然，他也没有向我提供帮助（如果他这样做了，我也不会接受），但只要门还开着，他就站在那儿傻笑着和他们聊天，然后举起帽子，走回他的房间。自己的住所：但我几乎一直没有注意到他。然而，我的同伴们观察力更强。当我们继续前行时，他们不仅讨论了他的外表、言语和行为，还讨论了他脸上的每一个特征以及他的每一件衣服。

‘You shan’t have him all to yourself, Rosalie,’ said Miss Matilda at the close of this discussion; ‘I like him: I know he’d make a nice, jolly companion for me.’
“你不能独占他，罗莎莉，”玛蒂尔达小姐在谈话结束时说道。 “我喜欢他：我知道他会成为我的一个很好、快乐的伴侣。”

‘Well, you’re quite welcome to him, Matilda,’ replied her sister, in a tone of affected indifference.
“嗯，玛蒂尔达，非常欢迎你来见他。”她的姐姐用一种故作冷漠的语气回答道。

‘And I’m sure,’ continued the other, ‘he admires me quite as much as he does you; doesn’t he, Miss Grey?’
“我确信，”另一个人继续说道，“他像崇拜你一样崇拜我；是吗，格雷小姐？

‘I don’t know; I’m not acquainted with his sentiments.’
'我不知道;我不了解他的感受。

‘Well, but he DOES though.’
“好吧，但他确实这么做了。”

‘My DEAR Matilda! nobody will ever admire you till you get rid of your rough, awkward manners.’
“我亲爱的玛蒂尔达！除非你改掉粗鲁、笨拙的举止，否则没有人会钦佩你。”

‘Oh, stuff! Harry Meltham likes such manners; and so do papa’s friends.’
‘哦，东西！哈利·梅尔瑟姆喜欢这样的举止。爸爸的朋友们也是如此。

‘Well, you MAY captivate old men, and younger sons; but nobody else, I am sure, will ever take a fancy to you.’
“好吧，你可能会吸引老人和小儿子；但我确信，没有人会喜欢你。”

‘I don’t care: I’m not always grabbing after money, like you and mamma. If my husband is able to keep a few good horses and dogs, I shall be quite satisfied; and all the rest may go to the devil!’
“我不在乎：我并不总是像你和妈妈那样追逐金钱。如果我的丈夫能够养几匹好马和好狗，我就很满足了；其余的一切都见鬼去吧！

‘Well, if you use such shocking expressions, I’m sure no real gentleman will ever venture to come near you. Really, Miss Grey, you should not let her do so.’
“好吧，如果你用如此令人震惊的表情，我相信没有一个真正的绅士会冒险靠近你。真的，格雷小姐，你不应该让她这样做。”

‘I can’t possibly prevent it, Miss Murray.’
“我不可能阻止它，默里小姐。”

‘And you’re quite mistaken, Matilda, in supposing that Harry Meltham admires you: I assure you he does nothing of the kind.’
“玛蒂尔达，你如果认为哈利·梅尔瑟姆钦佩你，那你就大错特错了：我向你保证，他绝对不会做这样的事。”

Matilda was beginning an angry reply; but, happily, our journey was now at an end; and the contention was cut short by the footman opening the carriage-door, and letting down the steps for our descent.
玛蒂尔达开始愤怒地回答。但令人高兴的是，我们的旅程现在结束了。仆人打开车门，放下台阶让我们下楼，打断了这场争论。

CHAPTER XI—THE COTTAGERS
第十一章 佃农

As I had now only one regular pupil—though she contrived to give me as much trouble as three or four ordinary ones, and though her sister still took lessons in German and drawing—I had considerably more time at my own disposal than I had ever been blessed with before, since I had taken upon me the governess’s yoke; which time I devoted partly to correspondence with my friends, partly to reading, study, and the practice of music, singing, &c., partly to wandering in the grounds or adjacent fields, with my pupils if they wanted me, alone if they did not.
由于我现在只有一名普通学生——尽管她想方设法给我带来和三四个普通学生一样多的麻烦，而且尽管她姐姐仍在上德语和绘画课——我自己支配的时间比以往任何时候都多得多。自从我承担了家庭女教师的枷锁以来，我以前就受到了祝福；这段时间我一部分时间与朋友们通信，一部分时间阅读、学习以及练习音乐、唱歌等，一部分时间在田野或邻近的田野里漫步，如果学生需要我，就和他们一起，如果他们愿意，就独自一人。不是。

Often, when they had no more agreeable occupation at hand, the Misses Murray would amuse themselves with visiting the poor cottagers on their father’s estate, to receive their flattering homage, or to hear the old stories or gossiping news of the garrulous old women; or, perhaps, to enjoy the purer pleasure of making the poor people happy with their cheering presence and their occasional gifts, so easily bestowed, so thankfully received. Sometimes, I was called upon to accompany one or both of the sisters in these visits; and sometimes I was desired to go alone, to fulfil some promise which they had been more ready to make than to perform; to carry some small donation, or read to one who was sick or seriously disposed: and thus I made a few acquaintances among the cottagers; and, occasionally, I went to see them on my own account.
通常，当手头没有更合适的工作时，默里小姐就会自娱自乐地拜访父亲庄园里的贫穷村民，接受他们奉承的敬意，或者听听那些喋喋不休的老妇人的旧故事或八卦新闻；或者，也许是享受更纯粹的快乐，让穷人因他们的欢呼和偶尔的礼物而感到高兴，这些礼物如此容易地给予，如此感激地接受。有时，我被要求陪同其中一位或两位姐妹进行这些探访。有时我希望自己一个人去，去履行一些他们更愿意做出而不是履行的承诺。携带一些小额捐款，或者读书给生病或严重的人听：就这样，我在村民中结识了一些人；偶尔，我也会以自己的名义去看望他们。

I generally had more satisfaction in going alone than with either of the young ladies; for they, chiefly owing to their defective education, comported themselves towards their inferiors in a manner that was highly disagreeable for me to witness. They never, in thought, exchanged places with them; and, consequently, had no consideration for their feelings, regarding them as an order of beings entirely different from themselves. They would watch the poor creatures at their meals, making uncivil remarks about their food, and their manner of eating; they would laugh at their simple notions and provincial expressions, till some of them scarcely durst venture to speak; they would call the grave elderly men and women old fools and silly old blockheads to their faces: and all this without meaning to offend. I could see that the people were often hurt and annoyed by such conduct, though their fear of the ‘grand ladies’ prevented them from testifying any resentment; but THEY never perceived it. They thought that, as these cottagers were poor and untaught, they must be stupid and brutish; and as long as they, their superiors, condescended to talk to them, and to give them shillings and half-crowns, or articles of clothing, they had a right to amuse themselves, even at their expense; and the people must adore them as angels of light, condescending to minister to their necessities, and enlighten their humble dwellings.
一般来说，我一个人去比和两位年轻女士一起去更满意。因为他们主要是由于教育有缺陷，他们对待下级的方式让我非常不舒服。他们从来没有在思想上与他们交换过位置。因此，他们不考虑他们的感受，将他们视为与自己完全不同的一群人。他们会看着这些可怜的动物吃饭，对他们的食物和饮食方式做出不文明的评论；他们会嘲笑他们简单的想法和乡土的表达，直到他们中的一些人几乎不敢说话。他们会当面称那些严肃的老年男女为“老傻瓜”和“愚蠢的老笨蛋”：所有这些都没有冒犯的意思。我看得出来，人们经常因这种行为而受到伤害和恼怒，尽管他们对“贵妇们”的恐惧使他们无法表现出任何怨恨；但他们从未意识到这一点。他们认为，这些佃农既贫穷又没有受过教育，所以他们一定是愚蠢而野蛮的。只要他们，他们的上级，屈尊与他们交谈，并给他们先令和半克朗，或者衣服，他们就有权自娱自乐，甚至不惜牺牲自己的钱。人们必须崇拜他们，将他们视为光明天使，屈尊为他们提供必需品，照亮他们简陋的住所。

I made many and various attempts to deliver my pupils from these delusive notions without alarming their pride—which was easily offended, and not soon appeased—but with little apparent result; and I know not which was the more reprehensible of the two: Matilda was more rude and boisterous; but from Rosalie’s womanly age and lady-like exterior better things were expected: yet she was as provokingly careless and inconsiderate as a giddy child of twelve.
我做了很多不同的尝试，试图让我的学生摆脱这些虚幻的观念，同时又不惊动他们的自尊心——他们的自尊心很容易被冒犯，而且不会很快得到平息——但收效甚微。我不知道这两个人中哪一个更应该受到谴责：玛蒂尔达更加粗鲁和喧闹；但从罗莎莉的女性年龄和淑女般的外表来看，我们可以期待更好的事情：然而她却像一个轻浮的十二岁孩子一样粗心和不体贴，令人恼火。

One bright day in the last week of February, I was walking in the park, enjoying the threefold luxury of solitude, a book, and pleasant weather; for Miss Matilda had set out on her daily ride, and Miss Murray was gone in the carriage with her mamma to pay some morning calls. But it struck me that I ought to leave these selfish pleasures, and the park with its glorious canopy of bright blue sky, the west wind sounding through its yet leafless branches, the snow-wreaths still lingering in its hollows, but melting fast beneath the sun, and the graceful deer browsing on its moist herbage already assuming the freshness and verdure of spring—and go to the cottage of one Nancy Brown, a widow, whose son was at work all day in the fields, and who was afflicted with an inflammation in the eyes; which had for some time incapacitated her from reading: to her own great grief, for she was a woman of a serious, thoughtful turn of mind. I accordingly went, and found her alone, as usual, in her little, close, dark cottage, redolent of smoke and confined air, but as tidy and clean as she could make it. She was seated beside her little fire (consisting of a few red cinders and a bit of stick), busily knitting, with a small sackcloth cushion at her feet, placed for the accommodation of her gentle friend the cat, who was seated thereon, with her long tail half encircling her velvet paws, and her half-closed eyes dreamily gazing on the low, crooked fender.
二月最后一周的一个晴朗的一天，我在公园里散步，享受着独处、一本书和宜人天气的三重奢侈；因为玛蒂尔达小姐已经开始每天的骑行，而默里小姐则和她妈妈一起坐马车去叫醒。但我突然想到，我应该离开这些自私的快乐，离开公园，离开那灿烂的蓝天，西风吹过它尚未落叶的树枝，雪花仍然在空心处徘徊，但在雪花下迅速融化。阳光明媚，优雅的鹿在潮湿的草丛中吃草，已经呈现出春天的新鲜和翠绿——然后去南希·布朗的小屋，她是一位寡妇，她的儿子整天在田里干活，她患有一种疾病。眼睛发炎；这使她有一段时间无法读书：她自己也非常悲伤，因为她是一个心思严肃、深思熟虑的女人。于是我就去了，发现她像往常一样独自一人呆在她那又小又密又黑的小屋里，弥漫着烟味和密闭的空气，但她尽可能地收拾得干干净净。她坐在她的小火旁（由一些红色的煤渣和一些木棍组成），忙着编织，脚边放着一个小麻布垫子，是为了让她温柔的朋友猫休息的，猫坐在垫子上，她的长尾巴半包围着她的天鹅绒爪子，她半闭的眼睛出神地凝视着低矮、弯曲的护舷板。

‘Well, Nancy, how are you to-day?’
“嗯，南希，你今天怎么样？”

‘Why, middling, Miss, i’ myseln—my eyes is no better, but I’m a deal easier i’ my mind nor I have been,’ replied she, rising to welcome me with a contented smile; which I was glad to see, for Nancy had been somewhat afflicted with religious melancholy. I congratulated her upon the change. She agreed that it was a great blessing, and expressed herself ‘right down thankful for it’; adding, ‘If it please God to spare my sight, and make me so as I can read my Bible again, I think I shall be as happy as a queen.’
“哎呀，中等，小姐，我自己——我的眼睛也没有好转，但我的思想和以前都轻松多了，”她回答道，站起来迎接我，脸上带着满足的微笑。我很高兴看到这一点，因为南希多少有些受到宗教忧郁的折磨。我对她的改变表示祝贺。她同意这是一个巨大的祝福，并表示自己“对此非常感激”；补充道，“如果上帝愿意保佑我的视力，让我能够再次阅读圣经，我想我会像女王一样幸福。”

‘I hope He will, Nancy,’ replied I; ‘and, meantime, I’ll come and read to you now and then, when I have a little time to spare.’
“我希望他会的，南希，”我回答道。 “同时，当我有一点空闲的时候，我会时不时地来给你读书。”

With expressions of grateful pleasure, the poor woman moved to get me a chair; but, as I saved her the trouble, she busied herself with stirring the fire, and adding a few more sticks to the decaying embers; and then, taking her well-used Bible from the shelf, dusted it carefully, and gave it me. On my asking if there was any particular part she should like me to read, she answered -
这位可怜的女人满脸感激地高兴地走过去给我拿了张椅子。但是，当我省去了她的麻烦时，她忙着搅动火，并在腐烂的余烬上添加了更多的木棍。然后，她从书架上拿出她用得很熟的《圣经》，仔细地掸掉灰尘，然后把它交给了我。当我问她是否希望我读任何特定的部分时，她回答说：

‘Well, Miss Grey, if it’s all the same to you, I should like to hear that chapter in the First Epistle of St. John, that says, ‘God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him.‘‘
“好吧，格雷小姐，如果对你来说都是一样的话，我想听听《约翰第一书信》中的那一章，其中说：‘上帝就是爱，住在爱里的人也住在上帝里面，而上帝也住在爱里。在他那边。''

With a little searching, I found these words in the fourth chapter. When I came to the seventh verse she interrupted me, and, with needless apologies for such a liberty, desired me to read it very slowly, that she might take it all in, and dwell on every word; hoping I would excuse her, as she was but a ‘simple body.’
经过一番查找，我在第四章找到了这句话。当我读到第七节时，她打断了我，并为这样的自由而不必要地道歉，希望我慢慢地读它，以便她可以全部吸收，并仔细考虑每一个字。希望我能原谅她，因为她只是一个“简单的身体”。

‘The wisest person,’ I replied, ‘might think over each of these verses for an hour, and be all the better for it; and I would rather read them slowly than not.’
“最聪明的人，”我回答说，“可能会思考这些诗句一个小时，并且会因此而变得更好;我宁愿慢慢读也不愿不读。

Accordingly, I finished the chapter as slowly as need be, and at the same time as impressively as I could; my auditor listened most attentively all the while, and sincerely thanked me when I had done. I sat still about half a minute to give her time to reflect upon it; when, somewhat to my surprise, she broke the pause by asking me how I liked Mr. Weston?
因此，我按照需要缓慢地完成了这一章，同时又尽可能地令人印象深刻。我的审计员​​一直非常专心地听着，当我听完后，他真诚地感谢我。我静静地坐了大约半分钟，给她时间思考。令我有些惊讶的是，她打破了沉默，问我喜欢韦斯顿先生吗？

‘I don’t know,’ I replied, a little startled by the suddenness of the question; ‘I think he preaches very well.’
“我不知道，”我回答道，对这个突然的问题感到有点惊讶。 “我认为他讲道得很好。”

‘Ay, he does so; and talks well too.’
‘是的，他确实这么做了；而且说话也很好。

‘Does he?’
“是吗？”

‘He does. Maybe, you haven’t seen him—not to talk to him much, yet?’
'他是这样的。也许，你还没有见过他——还没有和他多说话，是吗？

‘No, I never see any one to talk to—except the young ladies of the Hall.’
“不，我从来没有见过任何人可以交谈——除了大厅里的年轻女士们。”

‘Ah; they’re nice, kind young ladies; but they can’t talk as he does.’
'啊;她们是漂亮、善良的年轻女士；但他们不能像他那样说话。

‘Then he comes to see you, Nancy?’
“那么他来看你了，南希？”

‘He does, Miss; and I’se thankful for it. He comes to see all us poor bodies a deal ofter nor Maister Bligh, or th’ Rector ever did; an’ it’s well he does, for he’s always welcome: we can’t say as much for th’ Rector—there is ‘at says they’re fair feared on him. When he comes into a house, they say he’s sure to find summut wrong, and begin a-calling ‘em as soon as he crosses th’ doorstuns: but maybe he thinks it his duty like to tell ‘em what’s wrong. And very oft he comes o’ purpose to reprove folk for not coming to church, or not kneeling an’ standing when other folk does, or going to the Methody chapel, or summut o’ that sort: but I can’t say ‘at he ever fund much fault wi’ me. He came to see me once or twice, afore Maister Weston come, when I was so ill troubled in my mind; and as I had only very poor health besides, I made bold to send for him—and he came right enough. I was sore distressed, Miss Grey— thank God, it’s owered now—but when I took my Bible, I could get no comfort of it at all. That very chapter ‘at you’ve just been reading troubled me as much as aught—‘He that loveth not, knoweth not God.’ It seemed fearsome to me; for I felt that I loved neither God nor man as I should do, and could not, if I tried ever so. And th’ chapter afore, where it says,—‘He that is born of God cannot commit sin.’ And another place where it says,—‘Love is the fulfilling of the Law.’ And many, many others, Miss: I should fair weary you out, if I was to tell them all. But all seemed to condemn me, and to show me ‘at I was not in the right way; and as I knew not how to get into it, I sent our Bill to beg Maister Hatfield to be as kind as look in on me some day and when he came, I telled him all my troubles.’
“是的，小姐；”我对此表示感谢。他经常来看望我们这些可怜的人，布莱大师和校长也从来没有这样做过。他这样做很好，因为他总是受欢迎的：我们不能对校长说那么多——有人说他们很害怕他。当他走进一所房子时，他们说他肯定会发现summut错了，一进门就开始打电话给他们：但也许他认为告诉他们出了什么问题是他的责任。很多时候，他是故意责备人们不去教堂，或者当其他人去教堂时没有跪着或站着，或者去卫理公会教堂，或者类似的事情：但我不能说“在”他总是对我犯很多错误。在韦斯顿大师来之前，他来看过我一两次，当时我心里很不安。另外，由于我的健康状况很差，所以我大胆地派人去找他——他来得正是时候。我非常痛苦，格雷小姐——感谢上帝，现在一切都结束了——但是当我拿起圣经时，我却一点也得不到安慰。 “你刚刚读到的那一章让我感到非常困扰——‘不爱的人，就不认识上帝。’这对我来说似乎很可怕；但我觉得这很可怕。”因为我觉得我既不爱上帝也不爱人，即使我尝试过，也做不到。前面的一章说，“从神生的人不能犯罪。”另一处说，“爱是律法的成全。”还有很多很多其他人，小姐：我如果我要告诉他们全部的话，你应该会感到疲倦。但一切似乎都在谴责我，并向我表明“我的方式不正确；”由于我不知道如何介入，所以我派比尔去恳求哈特菲尔德大师有一天能来看看我，当他来的时候，我告诉了他我所有的烦恼。

‘And what did he say, Nancy?’
“南希，他说什么？”

‘Why, Miss, he seemed to scorn me. I might be mista’en—but he like gave a sort of a whistle, and I saw a bit of a smile on his face; and he said, ‘Oh, it’s all stuff! You’ve been among the Methodists, my good woman.’ But I telled him I’d never been near the Methodies. And then he said,—‘Well,’ says he, ‘you must come to church, where you’ll hear the Scriptures properly explained, instead of sitting poring over your Bible at home.’
“为什么，小姐，他似乎瞧不起我。我可能搞错了——但他喜欢吹了一声口哨，我看到他脸上露出了一丝微笑。他说，‘哦，这都是东西！你一直是卫理公会教徒，我的好女人。”但我告诉他我从来没有靠近过卫理公会教徒。然后他说：“好吧，”他说，“你必须去教堂，在那里你会听到圣经的正确解释，而不是坐在家里研读圣经。”

‘But I telled him I always used coming to church when I had my health; but this very cold winter weather I hardly durst venture so far—and me so bad wi’ th’ rheumatic and all.
“但我告诉他，当我身体健康时，我总是去教堂；但在这个非常寒冷的冬天，我几乎不敢冒险走这么远——而且我的风湿病也很严重。

‘But he says, ‘It’ll do your rheumatiz good to hobble to church: there’s nothing like exercise for the rheumatiz. You can walk about the house well enough; why can’t you walk to church? The fact is,’ says he, ‘you’re getting too fond of your ease. It’s always easy to find excuses for shirking one’s duty.’
“但他说，‘一瘸一拐地去教堂对你的风湿病有好处：没有什么比锻炼更能治疗风湿病了。你可以在房子里走动；你为什么不能步行去教堂？事实是，”他说，“你太享受安逸了。寻找逃避责任的借口总是很容易的。

‘But then, you know, Miss Grey, it wasn’t so. However, I telled him I’d try. ‘But please, sir,’ says I, ‘if I do go to church, what the better shall I be? I want to have my sins blotted out, and to feel that they are remembered no more against me, and that the love of God is shed abroad in my heart; and if I can get no good by reading my Bible an’ saying my prayers at home, what good shall I get by going to church?‘‘
“但是，你知道，格雷小姐，事实并非如此。不过，我告诉他我会尝试。 “但是，先生，”我说，“如果我去教堂，会有什么好处呢？”我希望我的罪孽被涂抹，不再被记念来攻击我，上帝的爱浇灌在我的心中；如果我在家读圣经和祈祷都没有什么好处，那么去教堂又有什么好处呢？”

‘’The church,’ says he, ‘is the place appointed by God for His worship. It’s your duty to go there as often as you can. If you want comfort, you must seek it in the path of duty,’—an’ a deal more he said, but I cannot remember all his fine words. However, it all came to this, that I was to come to church as oft as ever I could, and bring my prayer-book with me, an’ read up all the sponsers after the clerk, an’ stand, an’ kneel, an’ sit, an’ do all as I should, and take the Lord’s Supper at every opportunity, an’ hearken his sermons, and Maister Bligh’s, an’ it ‘ud be all right: if I went on doing my duty, I should get a blessing at last.
他说：“教会是上帝指定敬拜他的地方。”尽可能经常去那里是你的责任。如果你想要安慰，你就必须在责任的道路上寻求它。”——他还说了很多，但我记不起他所有的好话了。然而，这一切都是这样的，我要尽可能多地去教堂，带上我的祈祷书，在书记员之后阅读所有的赞助者，然后站起来，跪下，坐下来，做我应该做的一切，一有机会就领受圣餐，听听他的布道，还有布莱大师的布道，那就没问题了：如果我继续履行我的职责，我应该最后得到祝福。

‘’But if you get no comfort that way,’ says he, ‘it’s all up.’
“但如果你这样得不到安慰，”他说，“那就完了。”

‘’Then, sir,’ says I, ‘should you think I’m a reprobate?’
“那么，先生，”我说，“您应该认为我是个恶棍吗？”

‘’Why,’ says he—he says, ‘if you do your best to get to heaven and can’t manage it, you must be one of those that seek to enter in at the strait gate and shall not be able.’
“为什么，”他说——他说，“如果你竭尽全力想要进入天堂却无法实现，那么你一定是那些试图进入窄门却无法进入的人之一。”

‘An’ then he asked me if I’d seen any of the ladies o’ th’ Hall about that mornin’; so I telled him where I had seen the young misses go on th’ Moss Lane;—an’ he kicked my poor cat right across th’ floor, an’ went after ‘em as gay as a lark: but I was very sad. That last word o’ his fair sunk into my heart, an’ lay there like a lump o’ lead, till I was weary to bear it.
“然后他问我那天早上是否见过大厅里的任何一位女士。”于是我告诉他我在莫斯巷哪里看到了年轻的小姐们；——他把我可怜的猫踢到了地板上，然后像云雀一样快乐地追赶着她们：但我很伤心。他的最后一句话深深地印在了我的心里，像一块铅块一样躺在那里，直到我厌倦了忍受。

‘Howsever, I follered his advice: I thought he meant it all for th’ best, though he HAD a queer way with him. But you know, Miss, he’s rich an’ young, and such like cannot right understand the thoughts of a poor old woman such as me. But, howsever, I did my best to do all as he bade me—but maybe I’m plaguing you, Miss, wi’ my chatter.’
“不过，我听从了他的建议：我认为他这一切都是出于好意，尽管他的行事方式很奇怪。但你知道，小姐，他既富有又年轻，这样的人无法正确理解像我这样的可怜的老妇人的想法。但是，无论如何，我都尽力按照他的吩咐去做了——但也许我的喋喋不休正在困扰你，小姐。”

‘Oh, no, Nancy! Go on, and tell me all.’
“哦，不，南希！继续吧，告诉我一切。”

‘Well, my rheumatiz got better—I know not whether wi’ going to church or not, but one frosty Sunday I got this cold i’ my eyes. Th’ inflammation didn’t come on all at once like, but bit by bit— but I wasn’t going to tell you about my eyes, I was talking about my trouble o’ mind;—and to tell the truth, Miss Grey, I don’t think it was anyways eased by coming to church—nought to speak on, at least: I like got my health better; but that didn’t mend my soul. I hearkened and hearkened the ministers, and read an’ read at my prayer-book; but it was all like sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal: the sermons I couldn’t understand, an’ th’ prayer-book only served to show me how wicked I was, that I could read such good words an’ never be no better for it, and oftens feel it a sore labour an’ a heavy task beside, instead of a blessing and a privilege as all good Christians does. It seemed like as all were barren an’ dark to me. And then, them dreadful words, ‘Many shall seek to enter in, and shall not be able.’ They like as they fair dried up my sperrit.
“嗯，我的风湿病好多了——我不知道是否要去教堂，但在一个寒冷的星期天，我的眼睛变得很冷。炎症并不是一下子出现的，而是一点一点地出现的——但我不会告诉你我眼睛的事，我是在谈论我的心灵问题；——说实话，格雷小姐，我不认为去教堂会有所缓解——至少没有什么可说的：我喜欢让自己的健康变得更好；但这并没有治愈我的灵魂。我不断地倾听牧师们的声音，一遍又一遍地读我的祈祷书。但这一切就像响亮的铜管和叮叮当当的铙钹：我听不懂的布道，一本祈祷书只能让我看到我是多么邪恶，我可以读到如此好的文字，但永远不会好起来为此，我们常常感到这是一项艰巨的工作和一项繁重的任务，而不是像所有好基督徒那样是一种祝福和特权。对我来说，一切似乎都是贫瘠而黑暗的。然后，他们说出了可怕的话语：“许多人将试图进入，但却无法进入。”他们喜欢这样，因为他们让我的精神枯竭了。

‘But one Sunday, when Maister Hatfield gave out about the sacrament, I noticed where he said, ‘If there be any of you that cannot quiet his own conscience, but requireth further comfort or counsel, let him come to me, or some other discreet and learned minister of God’s word, and open his grief!’ So next Sunday morning, afore service, I just looked into the vestry, an’ began atalking to th’ Rector again. I hardly could fashion to take such a liberty, but I thought when my soul was at stake I shouldn’t stick at a trifle. But he said he hadn’t time to attend to me then.
“但是一个星期天，当哈特菲尔德大师分发圣礼时，我注意到他说，‘如果你们中有人无法平息自己的良心，但需要进一步的安慰或建议，让他来找我，或者其他人来找我。谨慎而博学的上帝话语牧师，公开他的悲伤！”所以下周日早上，在服务之前，我只是看了一眼小礼拜室，然后又开始和校长交谈。我几乎无法冒如此大的自由，但我想，当我的灵魂受到威胁时，我不应该在小事上坚持下去。但他说他当时没有时间照顾我。

‘’And, indeed,’ says he, ‘I’ve nothing to say to you but what I’ve said before. Take the sacrament, of course, and go on doing your duty; and if that won’t serve you, nothing will. So don’t bother me any more.’
“事实上，”他说，“除了我之前说过的话，我没有什么可对你说的。”当然，领受圣餐，然后继续履行你的职责；如果这对你不起作用，那就没有什么可以了。所以别再打扰我了。”

‘So then, I went away. But I heard Maister Weston—Maister Weston was there, Miss—this was his first Sunday at Horton, you know, an’ he was i’ th’ vestry in his surplice, helping th’ Rector on with his gown—‘
‘于是，我就走了。但我听说韦斯顿大师在那里——韦斯顿大师在那里，小姐——这是他在霍顿的第一个周日，你知道，他是穿着法衣的教区长，帮校长穿礼服——”

‘Yes, Nancy.’
“是的，南希。”

‘And I heard him ask Maister Hatfield who I was, an’ he says, ‘Oh, she’s a canting old fool.’
“我听到他问哈特菲尔德少爷我是谁，”他说，“哦，她是个狡猾的老傻瓜。”

‘And I was very ill grieved, Miss Grey; but I went to my seat, and I tried to do my duty as aforetime: but I like got no peace. An’ I even took the sacrament; but I felt as though I were eating and drinking to my own damnation all th’ time. So I went home, sorely troubled.
“格雷小姐，我非常伤心；但我还是回到了座位上，努力像以前一样履行我的职责：但我不喜欢平静。我什至接受了圣餐；但我感觉好像我一直在吃喝，自取其辱。于是，我满怀忧虑地回家了。

‘But next day, afore I’d gotten fettled up—for indeed, Miss, I’d no heart to sweeping an’ fettling, an’ washing pots; so I sat me down i’ th’ muck—who should come in but Maister Weston! I started siding stuff then, an’ sweeping an’ doing; and I expected he’d begin a-calling me for my idle ways, as Maister Hatfield would a’ done; but I was mista’en: he only bid me good-mornin’ like, in a quiet dacent way. So I dusted him a chair, an’ fettled up th’ fireplace a bit; but I hadn’t forgotten th’ Rector’s words, so says I, ‘I wonder, sir, you should give yourself that trouble, to come so far to see a ‘canting old fool,’ such as me.’
“但是第二天，在我还没有恢复过来之前——因为确实，小姐，我没有心情去扫地、修缮、洗锅；”所以我就坐下来了——除了韦斯顿大师，谁应该进来！然后我开始做一些事情，清扫和做事；我预计他会开始因为我的无所事事而打电话给我，就像哈特菲尔德少爷会做的那样；但我搞错了：他只是以一种安静而优雅的方式向我道了早安。于是我给他掸掉椅子上的灰尘，又把壁炉收拾了一下。但我没有忘记教区长的话，我说道：“我想，先生，您应该给自己找麻烦，跑那么远去见一个像我这样的‘歪歪扭扭的老傻瓜’。”

‘He seemed taken aback at that; but he would fain persuade me ‘at the Rector was only in jest; and when that wouldn’t do, he says, ‘Well, Nancy, you shouldn’t think so much about it: Mr. Hatfield was a little out of humour just then: you know we’re none of us perfect—even Moses spoke unadvisedly with his lips. But now sit down a minute, if you can spare the time, and tell me all your doubts and fears; and I’ll try to remove them.’
“他似乎对此感到惊讶；但他很乐意说服我“校长只是在开玩笑；”当这不起作用时，他说：“好吧，南希，你不应该想那么多：哈特菲尔德先生当时有点不幽默：你知道我们都不是完美的——即使是摩西不经意间用嘴唇说道。但现在请坐下来，如果你有时间的话，告诉我你所有的疑虑和恐惧；我会尝试将它们删除。

‘So I sat me down anent him. He was quite a stranger, you know, Miss Grey, and even YOUNGER nor Maister Hatfield, I believe; and I had thought him not so pleasant-looking as him, and rather a bit crossish, at first, to look at; but he spake so civil like—and when th’ cat, poor thing, jumped on to his knee, he only stroked her, and gave a bit of a smile: so I thought that was a good sign; for once, when she did so to th’ Rector, he knocked her off, like as it might be in scorn and anger, poor thing. But you can’t expect a cat to know manners like a Christian, you know, Miss Grey.’
“于是我在他面前坐下。格雷小姐，你知道，他是个陌生人，我相信，甚至包括雅戈尔和哈特菲尔德少爷。我原以为他长得不像他那么讨人喜欢，乍一看还有些脾气暴躁。但他说得那么客气——当那只猫，可怜的东西，跳到他的膝盖上时，他只是抚摸着她，并微微一笑：所以我认为这是一个好兆头；这一次，当她对教区长这样做时，他把她击倒了，就像是出于轻蔑和愤怒，可怜的东西。但你不能指望一只猫像基督徒一样懂礼貌，你知道，格雷小姐。”

‘No; of course not, Nancy. But what did Mr. Weston say then?’
'不;当然不是，南希。但韦斯顿先生当时说了什么？

‘He said nought; but he listened to me as steady an’ patient as could be, an’ never a bit o’ scorn about him; so I went on, an’ telled him all, just as I’ve telled you—an’ more too.
“他什么也没说；但他尽可能坚定、耐心地听我说话，从来没有对他有一点蔑视。所以我继续告诉他一切，就像我告诉你的那样——还有更多。

‘’Well,’ says he, ‘Mr. Hatfield was quite right in telling you to persevere in doing your duty; but in advising you to go to church and attend to the service, and so on, he didn’t mean that was the whole of a Christian’s duty: he only thought you might there learn what more was to be done, and be led to take delight in those exercises, instead of finding them a task and a burden. And if you had asked him to explain those words that trouble you so much, I think he would have told you, that if many shall seek to enter in at the strait gate and shall not be able, it is their own sins that hinder them; just as a man with a large sack on his back might wish to pass through a narrow doorway, and find it impossible to do so unless he would leave his sack behind him. But you, Nancy, I dare say, have no sins that you would not gladly throw aside, if you knew how?’
“好吧，”他说，“先生。”哈特菲尔德告诉你要坚持履行你的职责，这是非常正确的。但在建议你去教堂参加礼拜等时，他并不意味着这是基督徒的全部职责：他只是认为你可以在那里了解更多要做的事情，并被引导到享受这些练习，而不是把它们视为任务和负担。如果你要求他解释那些让你如此困扰的话，我想他会告诉你，如果许多人试图进入窄门却无法进入，那是他们自己的罪孽阻碍了他们;就像一个背着大袋子的人可能想穿过一个狭窄的门口，但发现除非他把袋子留在身后，否则这是不可能的。但我敢说，南希，你没有什么罪孽是你不愿意抛在一边的，如果你知道怎么做的话？

‘’Indeed, sir, you speak truth,’ said I.
“确实，先生，你说的是实话，”我说。

‘’Well,’ says he, ‘you know the first and great commandment—and the second, which is like unto it—on which two commandments hang all the law and the prophets? You say you cannot love God; but it strikes me that if you rightly consider who and what He is, you cannot help it. He is your father, your best friend: every blessing, everything good, pleasant, or useful, comes from Him; and everything evil, everything you have reason to hate, to shun, or to fear, comes from Satan—HIS enemy as well as ours. And for THIS cause was God manifest in the flesh, that He might destroy the works of the Devil: in one word, God is LOVE; and the more of love we have within us, the nearer we are to Him and the more of His spirit we possess.’
“好吧，”他说，“你知道第一条也是最大的诫命——还有与之类似的第二条诫命——所有的律法和先知都以这两条诫命为基础吗？你说你不能爱神；但令我震惊的是，如果你正确地思考他是谁、他是什么，你就会情不自禁地这么做。他是你的父亲，你最好的朋友：每一个祝福，一切美好的，令人愉快的，或有用的，都来自他；一切邪恶，一切你有理由憎恨、回避或恐惧的事物，都来自撒旦——他的敌人，也是我们的敌人。为此，神以肉身显现，以便摧毁魔鬼的作为：总而言之，神就是爱；神就是爱；神就是爱。我们内心的爱越多，我们离他就越近，我们就越拥有他的精神。

‘’Well, sir,’ I said, ‘if I can always think on these things, I think I might well love God: but how can I love my neighbours, when they vex me, and be so contrary and sinful as some on ‘em is?’
“好吧，先生，”我说，“如果我能一直思考这些事情，我想我可能会爱上帝：但是当我的邻居让我烦恼，并且像某些人一样相反和罪恶时，我怎么能爱他们呢？” “他们是？”

‘’It may seem a hard matter,’ says he, ‘to love our neighbours, who have so much of what is evil about them, and whose faults so often awaken the evil that lingers within ourselves; but remember that HE made them, and HE loves them; and whosoever loveth him that begat, loveth him that is begotten also. And if God so loveth us, that He gave His only begotten Son to die for us, we ought also to love one another. But if you cannot feel positive affection for those who do not care for you, you can at least try to do to them as you would they should do unto you: you can endeavour to pity their failings and excuse their offences, and to do all the good you can to those about you. And if you accustom yourself to this, Nancy, the very effort itself will make you love them in some degree—to say nothing of the goodwill your kindness would beget in them, though they might have little else that is good about them. If we love God and wish to serve Him, let us try to be like Him, to do His work, to labour for His glory—which is the good of man—to hasten the coming of His kingdom, which is the peace and happiness of all the world: however powerless we may seem to be, in doing all the good we can through life, the humblest of us may do much towards it: and let us dwell in love, that He may dwell in us and we in Him. The more happiness we bestow, the more we shall receive, even here; and the greater will be our reward in heaven when we rest from our labours.’ I believe, Miss, them is his very words, for I’ve thought ‘em ower many a time. An’ then he took that Bible, an’ read bits here and there, an’ explained ‘em as clear as the day: and it seemed like as a new light broke in on my soul; an’ I felt fair aglow about my heart, an’ only wished poor Bill an’ all the world could ha’ been there, an’ heard it all, and rejoiced wi’ me.
他说：“爱我们的邻居似乎是一件很难的事，他们身上有很多邪恶的地方，他们的缺点常常唤醒我们内心挥之不去的邪恶；”但请记住，他们是他创造的，他爱他们；凡爱生者的，也爱被生者。如果神如此爱我们，甚至赐下他的独生子为我们而死，我们也应该彼此相爱。但是，如果你不能对那些不关心你的人产生积极的感情，你至少可以尝试对他们做你希望他们对你做的事：你可以努力怜悯他们的失败并原谅他们的过错，并尽一切努力你能为你周围的人做的好事。如果你习惯了这一点，南希，这种努力本身就会让你在某种程度上爱他们——更不用说你的善意会给他们带来善意了，尽管他们可能没有什么其他的好处。如果我们爱神并愿意事奉他，就让我们努力像他一样，做他的工作，为他的荣耀而努力——这是人的好处——加速他的国度的到来，这是平安和幸福全世界的人：无论我们看起来多么无能为力，在一生中尽我们所能行善时，我们中最谦卑的人也可以为此做很多事情：让我们住在爱里，让他住在我们里面，我们也住在他里面。我们给予的幸福越多，我们得到的幸福就越多，即使是在这里；小姐，我相信，这正是他的话，因为我多次认为“他们亏欠了我们”。 然后他拿起那本《圣经》，到处读了一些片段，并像白天一样清晰地解释了它们：似乎一道新的光芒闯入了我的灵魂；我的心充满了热情，只希望可怜的比尔和全世界都能在场，听到这一切，并为我感到高兴。

‘After he was gone, Hannah Rogers, one o’ th’ neighbours, came in and wanted me to help her to wash. I telled her I couldn’t just then, for I hadn’t set on th’ potaties for th’ dinner, nor washed up th’ breakfast stuff yet. So then she began a-calling me for my nasty idle ways. I was a little bit vexed at first, but I never said nothing wrong to her: I only telled her like all in a quiet way, ‘at I’d had th’ new parson to see me; but I’d get done as quick as ever I could, an’ then come an’ help her. So then she softened down; and my heart like as it warmed towards her, an’ in a bit we was very good friends. An’ so it is, Miss Grey, ‘a soft answer turneth away wrath; but grievous words stir up anger.’ It isn’t only in them you speak to, but in yourself.’
“他走后，邻居汉娜·罗杰斯进来要我帮她洗澡。我告诉她我不能，因为我还没有准备好晚餐，也没有洗掉早餐的东西。于是她开始骂我，因为我的行为令人讨厌。起初我有点恼火，但我从来没有对她说过任何错话：我只是像所有人一样安静地告诉她，“因为我有新牧师来见我；”但我会尽快完成工作，然后来帮助她。于是她的态度就软了下来；我的心对她很温暖，不久我们就成为了很好的朋友。格雷小姐，事情就是这样，“温和的回答可以消除愤怒；” ”但严厉的言语会激起愤怒。“这不仅是你对他们说话的原因，也是你自己的原因。

‘Very true, Nancy, if we could always remember it.’
“非常正确，南希，如果我们能永远记住的话。”

‘Ay, if we could!’
“哎呀，如果我们可以的话！”

‘And did Mr. Weston ever come to see you again?’
“韦斯顿先生还来看过你吗？”

‘Yes, many a time; and since my eyes has been so bad, he’s sat an’ read to me by the half-hour together: but you know, Miss, he has other folks to see, and other things to do—God bless him! An’ that next Sunday he preached SUCH a sermon! His text was, ‘Come unto me all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest,’ and them two blessed verses that follows. You wasn’t there, Miss, you was with your friends then—but it made me SO happy! And I AM happy now, thank God! an’ I take a pleasure, now, in doing little bits o’ jobs for my neighbours—such as a poor old body ‘at’s half blind can do; and they take it kindly of me, just as he said. You see, Miss, I’m knitting a pair o’ stockings now;— they’re for Thomas Jackson: he’s a queerish old body, an’ we’ve had many a bout at threaping, one anent t’other; an’ at times we’ve differed sorely. So I thought I couldn’t do better nor knit him a pair o’ warm stockings; an’ I’ve felt to like him a deal better, poor old man, sin’ I began. It’s turned out just as Maister Weston said.’
“是的，很多次；由于我的眼睛太糟糕了，他就坐下来给我读书半个小时：但是你知道，小姐，他还有其他人要见，还有其他事情要做——上帝保佑他！下周日他就讲了这样的布道！他的文字是：“凡劳苦担重担的人，可以到我这里来，我将使你们得安息。”接下来是两句祝福的经文。小姐，你不在场，当时你和你的朋友在一起——但这让我很高兴！我现在很幸福，感谢上帝！现在，我很高兴为我的邻居做一点点工作——就像一个半盲的可怜的老身体所能做的那样；正如他所说，他们对我很友善。你看，小姐，我现在正在织一双长袜；——它们是给托马斯·杰克逊的：他是一个古怪的老身体，我们已经有过很多次的搏斗了，一个一个一个另一个；有时我们的分歧很大。所以我想我不能做得更好，也不能给他织一双保暖的袜子； “我觉得自己更喜欢他了，可怜的老头子，”我开始说道。事实正如韦斯顿大师所说。

‘Well, I’m very glad to see you so happy, Nancy, and so wise: but I must go now; I shall be wanted at the Hall,’ said I; and bidding her good-bye, I departed, promising to come again when I had time, and feeling nearly as happy as herself.
“嗯，我很高兴看到你如此快乐，南希，如此明智：但我现在必须走了；我必须走了。” “大厅里会通缉我，”我说道。我告别了她，离开了，并答应有时间会再来，我感到几乎和她一样快乐。

At another time I went to read to a poor labourer who was in the last stage of consumption. The young ladies had been to see him, and somehow a promise of reading had been extracted from them; but it was too much trouble, so they begged me to do it instead. I went, willingly enough; and there too I was gratified with the praises of Mr. Weston, both from the sick man and his wife. The former told me that he derived great comfort and benefit from the visits of the new parson, who frequently came to see him, and was ‘another guess sort of man’ to Mr. Hatfield; who, before the other’s arrival at Horton, had now and then paid him a visit; on which occasions he would always insist upon having the cottage-door kept open, to admit the fresh air for his own convenience, without considering how it might injure the sufferer; and having opened his prayer-book and hastily read over a part of the Service for the Sick, would hurry away again: if he did not stay to administer some harsh rebuke to the afflicted wife, or to make some thoughtless, not to say heartless, observation, rather calculated to increase than diminish the troubles of the suffering pair.
还有一次，我去给一位处于消费末期的贫困劳动者读书。年轻的女士们来看过他，不知怎的，她们答应了读书。但太麻烦了，所以他们求我改做。我很乐意地去了；韦斯顿先生和他的妻子对韦斯顿先生的赞扬也让我感到很满意。前者告诉我，他从新牧师的来访中得到了极大的安慰和好处，他经常来看望他，对哈特菲尔德先生来说是“另一个猜测的人”；而前者告诉我，他从新牧师的来访中得到了很大的安慰和好处，他经常来看望他，对哈特菲尔德先生来说是“另一个猜测的人”。在对方到达霍顿之前，他时不时地拜访过他。在这种情况下，他总是坚持把小屋的门打开，以便让新鲜空气进入他自己的方便，而不考虑这可能会对患者造成怎样的伤害。打开他的祈祷书，匆匆读完为病人服务的一部分后，他会再次匆匆离开：如果他不留下来对受苦的妻子进行一些严厉的责备，或者让一些人变得轻率，更不用说无情了观察，宁可增加而不是减少这对受苦夫妇的烦恼。

‘Whereas,’ said the man, ‘Maister Weston ‘ull pray with me quite in a different fashion, an’ talk to me as kind as owt; an’ oft read to me too, an’ sit beside me just like a brother.’
“然而，”那人说，“韦斯顿大师会以一种完全不同的方式与我一起祈祷，并且”对我亲切地说话；他也经常读书给我听，并且像兄弟一样坐在我旁边。

‘Just for all the world!’ exclaimed his wife; ‘an’ about a three wik sin’, when he seed how poor Jem shivered wi’ cold, an’ what pitiful fires we kept, he axed if wer stock of coals was nearly done. I telled him it was, an’ we was ill set to get more: but you know, mum, I didn’t think o’ him helping us; but, howsever, he sent us a sack o’ coals next day; an’ we’ve had good fires ever sin’: and a great blessing it is, this winter time. But that’s his way, Miss Grey: when he comes into a poor body’s house aseein’ sick folk, he like notices what they most stand i’ need on; an’ if he thinks they can’t readily get it therseln, he never says nowt about it, but just gets it for ‘em. An’ it isn’t everybody ‘at ‘ud do that, ‘at has as little as he has: for you know, mum, he’s nowt at all to live on but what he gets fra’ th’ Rector, an’ that’s little enough they say.’
“只为了全世界！”他的妻子喊道。 “大约是三线罪”，当他看到可怜的杰姆冻得瑟瑟发抖，我们保留的火是多么可怜时，他问我们的煤炭是否快用完了。我告诉他是的，我们不准备得到更多：但是你知道，妈妈，我不认为他会帮助我们；但是，无论如何，他第二天给我们送来了一袋煤炭； “我们曾经有过好火”：今年冬天这是一个巨大的祝福。但这就是他的方式，格雷小姐：当他走进一个穷人的房子，看到病人时，他喜欢注意到他们最需要什么；如果他认为他们自己无法轻易得到它，他永远不会说出来，而是为他们得到它。并不是每个人都会这样做，他拥有的东西和他拥有的一样少：因为你知道，妈妈，他现在根本无法生活，但他从校长那里得到的东西，那是很少的他们说得够多了。

I remembered then, with a species of exultation, that he had frequently been styled a vulgar brute by the amiable Miss Murray, because he wore a silver watch, and clothes not quite so bright and fresh as Mr. Hatfield’s.
当时我怀着一种狂喜的心情想起，他经常被和蔼可亲的默里小姐称为粗俗的畜生，因为他戴着一块银表，衣服不像哈特菲尔德先生那样明亮清新。

In returning to the Lodge I felt very happy, and thanked God that I had now something to think about; something to dwell on as a relief from the weary monotony, the lonely drudgery, of my present life: for I WAS lonely. Never, from month to month, from year to year, except during my brief intervals of rest at home, did I see one creature to whom I could open my heart, or freely speak my thoughts with any hope of sympathy, or even comprehension: never one, unless it were poor Nancy Brown, with whom I could enjoy a single moment of real social intercourse, or whose conversation was calculated to render me better, wiser, or happier than before; or who, as far as I could see, could be greatly benefited by mine. My only companions had been unamiable children, and ignorant, wrongheaded girls; from whose fatiguing folly, unbroken solitude was often a relief most earnestly desired and dearly prized. But to be restricted to such associates was a serious evil, both in its immediate effects and the consequences that were likely to ensue. Never a new idea or stirring thought came to me from without; and such as rose within me were, for the most part, miserably crushed at once, or doomed to sicken or fade away, because they could not see the light.
回到旅馆后，我感到非常高兴，感谢上帝让我现在有了一些事情可以考虑；一些值得沉思的事情，以缓解我目前生活中令人厌倦的单调和孤独的苦差事：因为我很孤独。月复一月，年复一年，除了在家里短暂休息的时候，我从未见过一个可以向我敞开心扉的生物，或者带着同情甚至理解的希望自由地表达我的想法：从来没有一个人，除非是可怜的南希·布朗，我可以和她享受片刻的真正的社交交往，或者她的谈话是为了让我比以前更好、更聪明或更快乐；或者说，据我所知，谁可以从我的行为中受益匪浅。我唯一的同伴是不友善的孩子和无知、固执的女孩。从他们令人疲惫的愚蠢行为中，不间断的孤独往往是一种最迫切渴望和最珍贵的解脱。但仅限于这样的伙伴是一种严重的罪恶，无论是其直接影响还是可能随之而来的后果。我从来没有从外部产生过新的想法或激动人心的想法。而我内心的玫瑰，大部分都立刻悲惨地被压碎，或者注定会生病或枯萎，因为它们看不到光明。

Habitual associates are known to exercise a great influence over each other’s minds and manners. Those whose actions are for ever before our eyes, whose words are ever in our ears, will naturally lead us, albeit against our will, slowly, gradually, imperceptibly, perhaps, to act and speak as they do. I will not presume to say how far this irresistible power of assimilation extends; but if one civilised man were doomed to pass a dozen years amid a race of intractable savages, unless he had power to improve them, I greatly question whether, at the close of that period, he would not have become, at least, a barbarian himself. And I, as I could not make my young companions better, feared exceedingly that they would make me worse—would gradually bring my feelings, habits, capacities, to the level of their own; without, however, imparting to me their lightheartedness and cheerful vivacity.
众所周知，习惯交往的人会对彼此的思想和举止产生很大的影响。那些他们的行动永远在我们眼前，他们的话语永远在我们耳中的人，自然会引导我们，尽管违背我们的意愿，慢慢地、逐渐地、也许不知不觉地，像他们一样行事和说话。我不想说这种不可抗拒的同化力量能延伸到什么程度；但是，如果一个文明人注定要在一群顽固的野蛮人中间度过十几年，除非他有能力改进他们，我非常怀疑，在那段时期结束时，他是否至少不会成为一个野蛮人他自己。而我，因为我无法让我的年轻同伴变得更好，所以非常担心他们会让我变得更糟——会逐渐把我的感情、习惯、能力带到他们自己的水平；然而，他们并没有给我带来他们的无忧无虑和愉快的活力。

Already, I seemed to feel my intellect deteriorating, my heart petrifying, my soul contracting; and I trembled lest my very moral perceptions should become deadened, my distinctions of right and wrong confounded, and all my better faculties be sunk, at last, beneath the baneful influence of such a mode of life. The gross vapours of earth were gathering around me, and closing in upon my inward heaven; and thus it was that Mr. Weston rose at length upon me, appearing like the morning star in my horizon, to save me from the fear of utter darkness; and I rejoiced that I had now a subject for contemplation that was above me, not beneath. I was glad to see that all the world was not made up of Bloomfields, Murrays, Hatfields, Ashbys, &c.; and that human excellence was not a mere dream of the imagination. When we hear a little good and no harm of a person, it is easy and pleasant to imagine more: in short, it is needless to analyse all my thoughts; but Sunday was now become a day of peculiar delight to me (I was now almost broken-in to the back corner in the carriage), for I liked to hear him—and I liked to see him, too; though I knew he was not handsome, or even what is called agreeable, in outward aspect; but, certainly, he was not ugly.
我似乎已经感觉到我的智力在退化，我的心在石化，我的灵魂在收缩；我颤抖着，生怕自己的道德观念会变得麻木，是非的界限会变得模糊，我所有较好的才能最终会在这种生活方式的有害影响下沉沦。地球上的浓重蒸汽聚集在我周围，逼近我内心的天堂。就这样，韦斯顿先生终于出现在我面前，像我地平线上的晨星一样，把我从对完全黑暗的恐惧中拯救出来。我很高兴现在有了一个高于我而不是低于我的沉思主题。我很高兴看到整个世界并不是由布卢姆菲尔德、默里、哈特菲尔德、阿什比等组成；而是由布卢姆菲尔德、默里、哈特菲尔德、阿什比等组成。人类的卓越不仅仅是想象中的梦想。当我们听到一个人的一点善意和无害时，我们很容易愉快地想象更多：总之，无需分析我所有的想法；但星期天现在对我来说成了特别快乐的一天（我现在几乎已经挤到了车厢的后角），因为我喜欢听他说话——而且我也喜欢看到他；因为我喜欢听他讲话，也喜欢看到他。虽然我知道他的外表并不英俊，甚至不是什么所谓的讨人喜欢。但可以肯定的是，他并不丑。

In stature he was a little, a very little, above the middle size; the outline of his face would be pronounced too square for beauty, but to me it announced decision of character; his dark brown hair was not carefully curled, like Mr. Hatfield’s, but simply brushed aside over a broad white forehead; the eyebrows, I suppose, were too projecting, but from under those dark brows there gleamed an eye of singular power, brown in colour, not large, and somewhat deep-set, but strikingly brilliant, and full of expression; there was character, too, in the mouth, something that bespoke a man of firm purpose and an habitual thinker; and when he smiled—but I will not speak of that yet, for, at the time I mention, I had never seen him smile: and, indeed, his general appearance did not impress me with the idea of a man given to such a relaxation, nor of such an individual as the cottagers described him. I had early formed my opinion of him; and, in spite of Miss Murray’s objurgations: was fully convinced that he was a man of strong sense, firm faith, and ardent piety, but thoughtful and stern: and when I found that, to his other good qualities, was added that of true benevolence and gentle, considerate kindness, the discovery, perhaps, delighted me the more, as I had not been prepared to expect it.
他的身材比中等身材稍高一点，非常矮小。他的脸部轮廓对于美来说显得过于方正，但对我来说，它表明了性格的决定。他的深棕色头发不像哈特菲尔德先生那样精心卷曲，只是简单地梳理到宽阔的白色前额上。我想，眉毛太突出了，但从那些黑眉毛下面，有一只眼睛闪烁着奇异的力量，棕色的眼睛，不大，位置有些深，但明亮得惊人，表情丰富。嘴里也有性格，表明一个人有坚定的目标和习惯性的思考。当他微笑时——但我还不会谈论这一点，因为，在我提到的时候，我从未见过他微笑：而且，事实上，他的总体外表并没有给我留下这样的印象：一个人有这样的想法。放松，也不像村里人描述的那样。我很早就对他形成了看法；尽管穆雷小姐一再劝阻，我还是完全相信他是一个理智强烈、信仰坚定、虔诚而又深思熟虑、严厉的人。仁慈、温柔、体贴的善意，这个发现也许让我更高兴，因为我没有准备好期待它。

CHAPTER XII—THE SHOWER
第十二章——淋浴

The next visit I paid to Nancy Brown was in the second week in March: for, though I had many spare minutes during the day, I seldom could look upon an hour as entirely my own; since, where everything was left to the caprices of Miss Matilda and her sister, there could be no order or regularity. Whatever occupation I chose, when not actually busied about them or their concerns, I had, as it were, to keep my loins girded, my shoes on my feet, and my staff in my hand; for not to be immediately forthcoming when called for, was regarded as a grave and inexcusable offence: not only by my pupils and their mother, but by the very servant, who came in breathless haste to call me, exclaiming, ‘You’re to go to the schoolroom DIRECTLY, mum, the young ladies is WAITING!!’ Climax of horror! actually waiting for their governess!!!
我下一次拜访南希·布朗是在三月的第二周：因为，尽管我白天有很多空闲时间，但我很少能把一个小时视为完全属于我自己的时间；因为，一切都由玛蒂尔达小姐和她姐姐的任性决定，不可能有秩序或规律。无论我选择什么职业，当我不真正忙于他们或他们的关心时，我都必须腰间带束，脚上穿鞋，手上握着拐杖。因为在需要时不立即出现，被认为是一种严重的、不可原谅的冒犯：不仅是我的学生和他们的母亲，还有那个仆人，他气喘吁吁地急忙跑来给我打电话，喊道：“你要直接去教室，妈妈，年轻的女士们正在等待！！”恐怖的高潮！居然在等他们的家庭教师！！！

But this time I was pretty sure of an hour or two to myself; for Matilda was preparing for a long ride, and Rosalie was dressing for a dinner-party at Lady Ashby’s: so I took the opportunity of repairing to the widow’s cottage, where I found her in some anxiety about her cat, which had been absent all day. I comforted her with as many anecdotes of that animal’s roving propensities as I could recollect. ‘I’m feared o’ th’ gamekeepers,’ said she: ‘that’s all ‘at I think on. If th’ young gentlemen had been at home, I should a’ thought they’d been setting their dogs at her, an’ worried her, poor thing, as they did MANY a poor thing’s cat; but I haven’t that to be feared on now.’ Nancy’s eyes were better, but still far from well: she had been trying to make a Sunday shirt for her son, but told me she could only bear to do a little bit at it now and then, so that it progressed but slowly, though the poor lad wanted it sadly. So I proposed to help her a little, after I had read to her, for I had plenty of time that evening, and need not return till dusk. She thankfully accepted the offer. ‘An’ you’ll be a bit o’ company for me too, Miss,’ said she; ‘I like as I feel lonesome without my cat.’ But when I had finished reading, and done the half of a seam, with Nancy’s capacious brass thimble fitted on to my finger by means of a roll of paper, I was disturbed by the entrance of Mr. Weston, with the identical cat in his arms. I now saw that he could smile, and very pleasantly too.
但这一次我很确定自己可以呆一两个小时；因为玛蒂尔达正准备长途骑行，而罗莎莉正在为阿什比夫人家的晚宴盛装打扮：所以我趁机回到寡妇的小屋，在那里我发现她对她的猫感到有些焦虑，因为她一直不在。天。我用我能记得的尽可能多的关于这种动物流浪倾向的轶事来安慰她。 “我害怕猎场看守人，”她说，“我想的就是这些。”如果那些年轻的先生们在家的话，我会以为他们放狗来攻击她，让她很担心，可怜的东西，就像他们对待许多可怜东西的猫一样；南希的眼睛好多了，但还差得很远：她一直在努力为她的儿子做一件周日衬衫，但告诉我她只能在晚上做一点点。时不时地，所以进展缓慢，尽管可怜的小伙子悲伤地想要它。于是我提议，读完书给她听后，帮她一点忙，因为那天晚上我时间充裕，不用等到黄昏才回来。谢天谢地，她接受了这个提议。 “小姐，你也会陪伴我一些，”她说。 “我喜欢没有我的猫，因为我感到孤独。”但是，当我读完，完成一半的缝线，用一卷纸将南希宽大的黄铜顶针戴在我的手指上时，我被韦斯顿先生进来了，怀里抱着同样的猫。我现在看到他能笑了，而且笑得非常愉快。

‘I’ve done you a piece of good service, Nancy,’ he began: then seeing me, he acknowledged my presence by a slight bow. I should have been invisible to Hatfield, or any other gentleman of those parts. ‘I’ve delivered your cat,’ he continued, ‘from the hands, or rather the gun, of Mr. Murray’s gamekeeper.’
“我为你做了一件好事，南希，”他开始说道，然后看到我，他微微鞠了一躬，表示我的存在。哈特菲尔德或其他任何一位绅士都应该看不见我。 “我已经把你的猫从穆雷先生的猎场看守人的手中，或者更确切地说是枪里救了出来。”

‘God bless you, sir!’ cried the grateful old woman, ready to weep for joy as she received her favourite from his arms.
“上帝保佑您，先生！”那位感激的老妇人喊道，当她从他怀里接过她最喜欢的东西时，她高兴得哭了。

‘Take care of it,’ said he, ‘and don’t let it go near the rabbitwarren, for the gamekeeper swears he’ll shoot it if he sees it there again: he would have done so to-day, if I had not been in time to stop him. I believe it is raining, Miss Grey,’ added he, more quietly, observing that I had put aside my work, and was preparing to depart. ‘Don’t let me disturb you—I shan’t stay two minutes.’
“照顾好它，”他说，“别让它靠近兔子圈，因为猎场看守人发誓，如果他再看到它在那里，他就会开枪射杀它：如果我有的话，他今天就会这么做了。”还没来得及阻止他。我相信正在下雨，格雷小姐，”他更平静地补充道，注意到我已经放下工作，正准备离开。 “别让我打扰你——我不会停留两分钟。”

‘You’ll BOTH stay while this shower gets owered,’ said Nancy, as she stirred the fire, and placed another chair beside it; ‘what! there’s room for all.’
“淋浴结束后你们俩都留下来，”南希边说边搅动火，并在旁边放了另一把椅子。 '什么！所有人都有空间。

‘I can see better here, thank you, Nancy,’ replied I, taking my work to the window, where she had the goodness to suffer me to remain unmolested, while she got a brush to remove the cat’s hairs from Mr. Weston’s coat, carefully wiped the rain from his hat, and gave the cat its supper, busily talking all the time: now thanking her clerical friend for what he had done; now wondering how the cat had found out the warren; and now lamenting the probable consequences of such a discovery. He listened with a quiet, goodnatured smile, and at length took a seat in compliance with her pressing invitations, but repeated that he did not mean to stay.
“我在这里看得更清楚，谢谢你，南希，”我回答道，把我的工作拿到窗前，她很善良地让我保持不受打扰，同时她拿了一把刷子把韦斯顿先生外套上的猫毛去掉。小心地擦去帽子上的雨水，给猫喂晚饭，一直忙着说话：现在感谢她的牧师朋友所做的一切；现在想知道猫是怎么找到窝的；现在对这一发现可能带来的后果感到遗憾。他带着安静、善意的微笑听着，最后按照她的迫切邀请坐下来，但重申他无意留下来。

‘I have another place to go to,’ said he, ‘and I see’ (glancing at the book on the table) ‘someone else has been reading to you.’
“我还有一个地方要去，”他说，“我明白”（瞥了一眼桌上的书）“有人在给你读书。”

‘Yes, sir; Miss Grey has been as kind as read me a chapter; an’ now she’s helping me with a shirt for our Bill—but I’m feared she’ll be cold there. Won’t you come to th’ fire, Miss?’
'是的先生;格雷小姐非常友善，给我读了一章。现在她正在帮我给我们的比尔穿一件衬衫——但我担心她会在那里冷。小姐，你不去火炉边吗？

‘No, thank you, Nancy, I’m quite warm. I must go as soon as this shower is over.’
“不，谢谢你，南希，我很热情。淋浴一结束我就得走了。

‘Oh, Miss! You said you could stop while dusk!’ cried the provoking old woman, and Mr. Weston seized his hat.
‘哦，小姐！你说你可以在黄昏时停下来！”那个恼人的老妇人喊道，韦斯顿先生抓住了他的帽子。

‘Nay, sir,’ exclaimed she, ‘pray don’t go now, while it rains so fast.’
“不，先生，”她喊道，“请不要走，雨下得这么快。”

‘But it strikes me I’m keeping your visitor away from the fire.’
“但令我震惊的是，我让你的访客远离了火。”

‘No, you’re not, Mr. Weston,’ replied I, hoping there was no harm in a falsehood of that description.
“不，你不是，韦斯顿先生，”我回答道，希望这种描述的虚假性不会有什么坏处。

‘No, sure!’ cried Nancy. ‘What, there’s lots o’ room!’
“不，当然！”南希喊道。 “什么，有很多空间！”

‘Miss Grey,’ said he, half-jestingly, as if he felt it necessary to change the present subject, whether he had anything particular to say or not, ‘I wish you would make my peace with the squire, when you see him. He was by when I rescued Nancy’s cat, and did not quite approve of the deed. I told him I thought he might better spare all his rabbits than she her cat, for which audacious assertion he treated me to some rather ungentlemanly language; and I fear I retorted a trifle too warmly.’
“格雷小姐，”他半开玩笑地说，好像他觉得有必要改变当前的话题，不管他是否有什么特别要说的，“我希望当你见到乡绅时，你能和他讲和。” 。当我救出南希的猫时，他就在旁边，但他不太赞成我的行为。我告诉他，我认为他可能会更好地饶恕他所有的兔子，而不是她的猫，为此他对我说了一些相当不绅士的语言；我担心我的反驳有些过于热情了。

‘Oh, lawful sir! I hope you didn’t fall out wi’ th’ maister for sake o’ my cat! he cannot bide answering again—can th’ maister.’
‘哦，合法的先生！我希望你不要为了我的猫而和老师闹翻！他迫不及待地再次回答——老师可以吗？

‘Oh! it’s no matter, Nancy: I don’t care about it, really; I said nothing VERY uncivil; and I suppose Mr. Murray is accustomed to use rather strong language when he’s heated.’
'哦！没关系，南希：我不在乎，真的；我没有说任何不文明的话；我想穆雷先生在情绪激动时习惯于使用相当严厉的语言。

‘Ay, sir: it’s a pity.’
“哎呀，先生，真遗憾。”

‘And now, I really must go. I have to visit a place a mile beyond this; and you would not have me to return in the dark: besides, it has nearly done raining now—so good-evening, Nancy. Good-evening, Miss Grey.’
‘现在，我真的必须走了。我必须去一英里以外的地方；你不会让我在天黑时回来：此外，现在雨已经快停了——晚上好，南希。晚上好，格雷小姐。

‘Good-evening, Mr. Weston; but don’t depend upon me for making your peace with Mr. Murray, for I never see him—to speak to.’
“晚上好，韦斯顿先生；但不要指望我能与默里先生和解，因为我从来没有见过他——没有和他说话。”

‘Don’t you; it can’t be helped then,’ replied he, in dolorous resignation: then, with a peculiar half-smile, he added, ‘But never mind; I imagine the squire has more to apologise for than I;’ and left the cottage.
‘你不这样吗？ “那就没办法了，”他悲伤地、听天由命地回答道。然后，他带着一种奇特的半微笑，补充道，“不过没关系；没关系；”我想乡绅比我更需要道歉；”然后离开了小屋。

I went on with my sewing as long as I could see, and then bade Nancy good-evening; checking her too lively gratitude by the undeniable assurance that I had only done for her what she would have done for me, if she had been in my place and I in hers. I hastened back to Horton Lodge, where, having entered the schoolroom, I found the tea-table all in confusion, the tray flooded with slops, and Miss Matilda in a most ferocious humour.
我继续做我能看见的缝纫活儿，然后向南希道晚安。通过不可否认的保证，我只是为她做了她会为我做的事情，如果她处于我的位置，而我处于她的位置，则可以抑制她过于强烈的感激之情。我赶紧回到霍顿小屋，走进教室，发现茶几乱七八糟，托盘里满是泔水，玛蒂尔达小姐的幽默感极强。

‘Miss Grey, whatever have you been about? I’ve had tea half an hour ago, and had to make it myself, and drink it all alone! I wish you would come in sooner!’
“格雷小姐，你最近在忙什么？半小时前就喝过茶了，还得自己泡，一个人喝！我希望你早点进来！

‘I’ve been to see Nancy Brown. I thought you would not be back from your ride.’
“我去过南希·布朗。我以为你不会骑车回来。

‘How could I ride in the rain, I should like to know. That damned pelting shower was vexatious enough—coming on when I was just in full swing: and then to come and find nobody in to tea! and you know I can’t make the tea as I like it.’
“我很想知道，我怎么能在雨中骑行。”那场该死的倾盆大雨已经够烦人的了——当我正忙得不可开交的时候，它就来了：然后却发现没有人在喝茶！你知道我无法泡出我喜欢的茶。”

‘I didn’t think of the shower,’ replied I (and, indeed, the thought of its driving her home had never entered my head).
“我没有想到洗澡，”我回答道（事实上，我从来没有想过用淋浴送她回家）。

‘No, of course; you were under shelter yourself, and you never thought of other people.’
“不，当然；你自己就在庇护所里，你从没想过其他人。

I bore her coarse reproaches with astonishing equanimity, even with cheerfulness; for I was sensible that I had done more good to Nancy Brown than harm to her: and perhaps some other thoughts assisted to keep up my spirits, and impart a relish to the cup of cold, overdrawn tea, and a charm to the otherwise unsightly table; and—I had almost said—to Miss Matilda’s unamiable face. But she soon betook herself to the stables, and left me to the quiet enjoyment of my solitary meal.
我以惊人的平静，甚至是愉快地忍受了她粗俗的责备。因为我很清楚，我对南希·布朗的好处多于对她的伤害：也许还有其他一些想法可以帮助我保持精神，让这杯透支的冷茶变得有滋味，也给原本难看的东西增添了魅力。桌子;还有——我差点就这么说了——面对玛蒂尔达小姐那张不友善的脸。但她很快就到了马厩，留下我独自一人安静地享用晚餐。

CHAPTER XIII—THE PRIMROSES
第十三章报春花

Miss Murray now always went twice to church, for she so loved admiration that she could not bear to lose a single opportunity of obtaining it; and she was so sure of it wherever she showed herself, that, whether Harry Meltham and Mr. Green were there or not, there was certain to be somebody present who would not be insensible to her charms, besides the Rector, whose official capacity generally obliged him to attend. Usually, also, if the weather permitted, both she and her sister would walk home; Matilda, because she hated the confinement of the carriage; she, because she disliked the privacy of it, and enjoyed the company that generally enlivened the first mile of the journey in walking from the church to Mr. Green’s park-gates: near which commenced the private road to Horton Lodge, which lay in the opposite direction, while the highway conducted in a straightforward course to the still more distant mansion of Sir Hugh Meltham. Thus there was always a chance of being accompanied, so far, either by Harry Meltham, with or without Miss Meltham, or Mr. Green, with perhaps one or both of his sisters, and any gentlemen visitors they might have.
默里小姐现在总是去教堂两次，因为她如此热爱别人的钦佩，以至于她不能忍受失去任何一次获得钦佩的机会。她非常确信，无论她在哪里露面，无论哈利·梅尔瑟姆和格林先生在不在，肯定会有一个人在场，对她的魅力不会无动于衷，除了校长之外，他的官方身份通常是强迫他参加。通常情况下，如果天气允许，她和姐姐也会步行回家。玛蒂尔达，因为她讨厌马车的束缚；她，因为她不喜欢它的隐私，并且喜欢陪伴，从教堂步行到格林先生的公园大门，这通常会使第一英里的旅程变得活跃：附近开始了通往霍顿旅馆的私人道路，霍顿旅馆位于相反的方向，而高速公路笔直地通往更远的休·梅尔瑟姆爵士的宅邸。因此，到目前为止，总是有机会陪伴的，要么是哈利·梅尔瑟姆（有或没有梅尔瑟姆小姐），要么是格林先生（也许有他的一个或两个姐妹），以及他们可能有的任何绅士访客。

Whether I walked with the young ladies or rode with their parents, depended upon their own capricious will: if they chose to ‘take’ me, I went; if, for reasons best known to themselves, they chose to go alone, I took my seat in the carriage. I liked walking better, but a sense of reluctance to obtrude my presence on anyone who did not desire it, always kept me passive on these and similar occasions; and I never inquired into the causes of their varying whims. Indeed, this was the best policy—for to submit and oblige was the governess’s part, to consult their own pleasure was that of the pupils. But when I did walk, the first half of journey was generally a great nuisance to me. As none of the before-mentioned ladies and gentlemen ever noticed me, it was disagreeable to walk beside them, as if listening to what they said, or wishing to be thought one of them, while they talked over me, or across; and if their eyes, in speaking, chanced to fall on me, it seemed as if they looked on vacancy—as if they either did not see me, or were very desirous to make it appear so. It was disagreeable, too, to walk behind, and thus appear to acknowledge my own inferiority; for, in truth, I considered myself pretty nearly as good as the best of them, and wished them to know that I did so, and not to imagine that I looked upon myself as a mere domestic, who knew her own place too well to walk beside such fine ladies and gentlemen as they were—though her young ladies might choose to have her with them, and even condescend to converse with her when no better company were at hand. Thus—I am almost ashamed to confess it—but indeed I gave myself no little trouble in my endeavours (if I did keep up with them) to appear perfectly unconscious or regardless of their presence, as if I were wholly absorbed in my own reflections, or the contemplation of surrounding objects; or, if I lingered behind, it was some bird or insect, some tree or flower, that attracted my attention, and having duly examined that, I would pursue my walk alone, at a leisurely pace, until my pupils had bidden adieu to their companions and turned off into the quiet private road.
我是和小姐们一起散步，还是和她们的父母一起骑马，全凭她们自己反复无常的意志：如果他们选择“带”我，我就去；如果他们选择“带”我，我就走；如果出于他们自己最清楚的原因，他们选择单独前往，我就坐在车厢里。我更喜欢走路，但我不愿意打扰任何不喜欢走路的人，这让我在这些和类似的场合总是保持被动。我从来没有探究过他们的不同想法的原因。事实上，这是最好的策略——服从和服从是家庭女教师的职责，而学生则负责咨询自己的兴趣。但当我真的步行时，前半程通常对我来说是一个很大的麻烦。由于前面提到的女士们和先生们都没有注意到我，所以当他们在我身边或对面说话时，走在他们身边是不舒服的，好像在听他们说话，或者希望被认为是他们中的一员；说话时，如果他们的目光碰巧落在我身上，他们的目光就好像茫然——好像他们要么没有看到我，要么很想让人看到我。走在后面也很不舒服，因为这样显得我承认自己低人一等。因为，事实上，我认为自己几乎和他们中最好的人一样好，并希望他们知道我这样做了，而不是想象我将自己视为仅仅是一个家庭成员，她太了解自己的位置了走在如此优秀的女士和绅士身边——尽管她的年轻女士们可能会选择让她和他们在一起，甚至在没有更好的同伴在场时屈尊与她交谈。 因此——我几乎羞于承认这一点——但事实上，我在努力（如果我确实跟上了他们）的过程中给自己带来了不小的麻烦，以表现出完全无意识或不管他们在场，就好像我完全沉浸在自己的反思中一样，或对周围物体的沉思；或者，如果我在后面徘徊，是某只鸟或昆虫，某棵树或花引起了我的注意，在适当地检查了之后，我会以悠闲的步伐独自行走，直到我的学生告别了他们的视线。和同伴拐进安静的私家路。

One such occasion I particularly well remember; it was a lovely afternoon about the close of March; Mr. Green and his sisters had sent their carriage back empty, in order to enjoy the bright sunshine and balmy air in a sociable walk home along with their visitors, Captain Somebody and Lieutenant Somebody-else (a couple of military fops), and the Misses Murray, who, of course, contrived to join them. Such a party was highly agreeable to Rosalie; but not finding it equally suitable to my taste, I presently fell back, and began to botanise and entomologise along the green banks and budding hedges, till the company was considerably in advance of me, and I could hear the sweet song of the happy lark; then my spirit of misanthropy began to melt away beneath the soft, pure air and genial sunshine; but sad thoughts of early childhood, and yearnings for departed joys, or for a brighter future lot, arose instead. As my eyes wandered over the steep banks covered with young grass and green-leaved plants, and surmounted by budding hedges, I longed intensely for some familiar flower that might recall the woody dales or green hill-sides of home: the brown moorlands, of course, were out of the question. Such a discovery would make my eyes gush out with water, no doubt; but that was one of my greatest enjoyments now. At length I descried, high up between the twisted roots of an oak, three lovely primroses, peeping so sweetly from their hiding-place that the tears already started at the sight; but they grew so high above me, that I tried in vain to gather one or two, to dream over and to carry with me: I could not reach them unless I climbed the bank, which I was deterred from doing by hearing a footstep at that moment behind me, and was, therefore, about to turn away, when I was startled by the words, ‘Allow me to gather them for you, Miss Grey,’ spoken in the grave, low tones of a well-known voice. Immediately the flowers were gathered, and in my hand. It was Mr. Weston, of course—who else would trouble himself to do so much for ME?
有一次这样的事我记得特别清楚；那是三月末的一个美好的下午。格林先生和他的姐妹们把马车空着送回来，以便与来访者、某人上尉和某人中尉（一对军人纨绔子弟）和穆雷小姐当然也设法加入了他们。罗莎莉非常同意这样的聚会。但我发现它同样不适合我的口味，于是我立即后退，开始沿着绿色的河岸和发芽的树篱进行植物学和昆虫学研究，直到公司远远领先于我，我能听到快乐百灵鸟甜美的歌声;然后，在柔和纯净的空气和和煦的阳光下，我厌世的精神开始消融。但是，童年时期的悲伤想法，以及对逝去的欢乐或对更光明的未来的渴望，反而出现了。当我的目光在陡峭的河岸上徘徊时，河岸上覆盖着嫩草和绿叶植物，上面是发芽的树篱，我强烈渴望一些熟悉的花朵，它可能会让人想起家乡的树木繁茂的山谷或绿色的山坡：棕色的荒原，当然，这是不可能的。毫无疑问，这样的发现会让我眼眶湿润。但这是我现在最大的享受之一。 最后，我在高高的一棵橡树扭曲的根部之间看到了三朵可爱的报春花，它们从隐藏的地方甜蜜地向外窥视，看到这一幕我已经热泪盈眶。但它们长得如此之高，高过我，我徒劳地试图收集一两个，梦想着并随身携带：除非我爬上岸，否则我无法到达它们，但我听到了脚步声，阻止了我这样做。那一刻就在我身后，因此，当我正要转身离开时，我被这句话吓了一跳：“格雷小姐，请允许我为你收集它们。”这是一个熟悉的声音，声音严肃而低沉。花立刻就被收集起来，送到了我的手里。当然是韦斯顿先生——还有谁会费心为我做这么多事情呢？

‘I thanked him; whether warmly or coldly, I cannot tell: but certain I am that I did not express half the gratitude I felt. It was foolish, perhaps, to feel any gratitude at all; but it seemed to me, at that moment, as if this were a remarkable instance of his good-nature: an act of kindness, which I could not repay, but never should forget: so utterly unaccustomed was I to receive such civilities, so little prepared to expect them from anyone within fifty miles of Horton Lodge. Yet this did not prevent me from feeling a little uncomfortable in his presence; and I proceeded to follow my pupils at a much quicker pace than before; though, perhaps, if Mr. Weston had taken the hint, and let me pass without another word, I might have repeated it an hour after: but he did not. A somewhat rapid walk for me was but an ordinary pace for him.
“我向他表示感谢；我分不清是热情还是冷漠：但我确信我没有表达出一半的感激之情。或许，表达任何感激之情都是愚蠢的。但在那一刻，我觉得这似乎是他善良本性的一个显着例子：一种善举，我无法报答，但永远不应该忘记：我完全不习惯接受这样的礼貌，所以几乎没有人预料到霍顿小屋五十英里以内的任何人都会收到这样的信息。但这并不妨碍我在他面前感到有点不舒服；我开始以比以前快得多的速度跟随我的学生。不过，也许，如果韦斯顿先生明白了这个暗示，让我一言不发地过去，我可能会在一个小时后重复一遍：但他没有。对我来说有点快的步行对他来说只是普通的步伐。

‘Your young ladies have left you alone,’ said he.
“你的年轻女士们已经离开你了，”他说。

‘Yes, they are occupied with more agreeable company.’
“是的，他们正忙着与更愉快的伙伴相处。”

‘Then don’t trouble yourself to overtake them.’ I slackened my pace; but next moment regretted having done so: my companion did not speak; and I had nothing in the world to say, and feared he might be in the same predicament. At length, however, he broke the pause by asking, with a certain quiet abruptness peculiar to himself, if I liked flowers.
“那就别费心追上他们了。”我放慢了脚步。但下一刻我就后悔了：我的同伴没有说话；我无话可说，担心他也会陷入同样的​​困境。然而最后，他打破了沉默，以一种他特有的安静、唐突的方式问我是否喜欢花。

‘Yes; very much,’ I answered, ‘wild-flowers especially.’
'是的;非常喜欢，”我回答道，“尤其是野花。”

‘I like wild-flowers,’ said he; ‘others I don’t care about, because I have no particular associations connected with them— except one or two. What are your favourite flowers?’
“我喜欢野花，”他说。 “其他的我不关心，因为我与他们没有任何特定的联系——除了一两个。你最喜欢哪种花？'

‘Primroses, bluebells, and heath-blossoms.’
“报春花、风铃草和石南花。”

‘Not violets?’
“不是紫罗兰吗？”

‘No; because, as you say, I have no particular associations connected with them; for there are no sweet violets among the hills and valleys round my home.’
'不;因为，正如你所说，我与它们没有任何特殊的联系；因为我家周围的山丘和山谷中没有甜美的紫罗兰。

‘It must be a great consolation to you to have a home, Miss Grey,’ observed my companion after a short pause: ‘however remote, or however seldom visited, still it is something to look to.’
“格雷小姐，拥有一个家对你来说一定是一个很大的安慰，”我的同伴停顿了一下后说道：“无论多么遥远，或者多么很少有人到访，它仍然是值得关注的东西。”

‘It is so much that I think I could not live without it,’ replied I, with an enthusiasm of which I immediately repented; for I thought it must have sounded essentially silly.
“这实在是太重要了，我想没有它我就活不下去了。”我回答道，但我立刻就后悔了。因为我认为这听起来一定很愚蠢。

‘Oh, yes, you could,’ said he, with a thoughtful smile. ‘The ties that bind us to life are tougher than you imagine, or than anyone can who has not felt how roughly they may be pulled without breaking. You might be miserable without a home, but even YOU could live; and not so miserably as you suppose. The human heart is like india-rubber; a little swells it, but a great deal will not burst it. If ‘little more than nothing will disturb it, little less than all things will suffice’ to break it. As in the outer members of our frame, there is a vital power inherent in itself that strengthens it against external violence. Every blow that shakes it will serve to harden it against a future stroke; as constant labour thickens the skin of the hand, and strengthens its muscles instead of wasting them away: so that a day of arduous toil, that might excoriate a lady’s palm, would make no sensible impression on that of a hardy ploughman.
“哦，是的，你可以，”他带着若有所思的微笑说道。 “将我们与生活联系在一起的纽带比你想象的更牢固，或者比任何没有感受到它们可能被粗暴地拉扯而不会断裂的人都更牢固。没有家你可能会很痛苦，但即使你也可以生活；并没有你想象的那么悲惨。人心如印度橡胶；稍微膨胀一点，但多了也不会破裂。如果“几乎没有什么能扰乱它，那么几乎所有的东西都足以打破它”。正如我们身体的外部成员一样，它本身就有一种内在的重要力量，可以增强它抵抗外部暴力的能力。每一次震动它的打击都会使其变得更加坚硬，以应对未来的打击。持续的劳动会使手部的皮肤变厚，增强其肌肉，而不是使它们消瘦：因此，一天的艰苦劳作可能会损害女士的手掌，但对于勤劳的农夫来说，却不会产生任何明显的印象。

‘I speak from experience—partly my own. There was a time when I thought as you do—at least, I was fully persuaded that home and its affections were the only things that made life tolerable: that, if deprived of these, existence would become a burden hard to be endured; but now I have no home—unless you would dignify my two hired rooms at Horton by such a name;—and not twelve months ago I lost the last and dearest of my early friends; and yet, not only I live, but I am not wholly destitute of hope and comfort, even for this life: though I must acknowledge that I can seldom enter even an humble cottage at the close of day, and see its inhabitants peaceably gathered around their cheerful hearth, without a feeling ALMOST of envy at their domestic enjoyment.’
“我的发言来自经验——部分是我自己的经验。曾经有一段时间，我和你的想法一样——至少，我完全相信，家和它的情感是唯一让生活还可以忍受的东西：如果失去了这些，生存就会成为一种难以忍受的负担；但现在我没有家了——除非你用这样的名字来荣耀我在霍顿租用的两间房间；——不到十二个月前，我失去了我早期的最后一个也是最亲爱的朋友；然而，不仅我活着，而且即使是今生，我也并非完全缺乏希望和安慰：尽管我必须承认，我很少能在天黑时走进一间简陋的小屋，看到里面的居民和平地聚集在周围他们欢快的壁炉，对他们的家庭享受几乎没有嫉妒的感觉。

‘You don’t know what happiness lies before you yet,’ said I: ‘you are now only in the commencement of your journey.’
“你还不知道什么是幸福就在你面前，”我说，“你现在才刚刚开始你的旅程。”

‘The best of happiness,’ replied he, ‘is mine already—the power and the will to be useful.’
“最好的幸福，”他回答道，“已经是我的了——有用的力量和意愿。”

We now approached a stile communicating with a footpath that conducted to a farm-house, where, I suppose, Mr. Weston purposed to make himself ‘useful;’ for he presently took leave of me, crossed the stile, and traversed the path with his usual firm, elastic tread, leaving me to ponder his words as I continued my course alone. I had heard before that he had lost his mother not many months before he came. She then was the last and dearest of his early friends; and he had NO HOME. I pitied him from my heart: I almost wept for sympathy. And this, I thought, accounted for the shade of premature thoughtfulness that so frequently clouded his brow, and obtained for him the reputation of a morose and sullen disposition with the charitable Miss Murray and all her kin. ‘But,’ thought I, ‘he is not so miserable as I should be under such a deprivation: he leads an active life; and a wide field for useful exertion lies before him. He can MAKE friends; and he can make a home too, if he pleases; and, doubtless, he will please some time. God grant the partner of that home may be worthy of his choice, and make it a happy one—such a home as he deserves to have! And how delightful it would be to—‘ But no matter what I thought.
我们现在走到了一个栅栏，与一条通向农舍的小路相连，我想，韦斯顿先生打算让自己在那里“有用”；因为他很快就向我告别，穿过栅栏，穿过小路。他一如既往的坚定而有弹性的脚步，让我在独自继续前进的过程中思考他的话。我以前听说他在来之前几个月就失去了母亲。那时，她是他早期朋友中最后一个也是最亲爱的。他没有家。我从心里同情他：我几乎为同情而哭泣。我想，这就是为什么他的眉头经常出现过早的深思熟虑的阴影，并为他在慈善的默里小姐和她的所有亲戚中赢得了郁郁寡欢、阴郁性格的名声。 “但是，”我想，“在这种剥夺下，他并没有我那么悲惨：他过着积极的生活；他面前有广阔的发挥空间。他可以交朋友；如果他愿意的话，他也可以安家；毫无疑问，他会取悦一段时间。愿上帝保佑那个家的伴侣配得上他的选择，并使它成为一个幸福的家——这样一个家，他值得拥有！要是——’但不管我怎么想，那该有多高兴啊。

I began this book with the intention of concealing nothing; that those who liked might have the benefit of perusing a fellowcreature’s heart: but we have some thoughts that all the angels in heaven are welcome to behold, but not our brother-men—not even the best and kindest amongst them.
我开始写这本书的目的并不是要隐瞒任何事情。那些喜欢的人可能会受益于细读同胞的心：但我们有一些想法，欢迎天堂里所有的天使来观看，但我们的兄弟不包括在内，即使是他们中最好和最善良的人也不可以。

By this time the Greens had taken themselves to their own abode, and the Murrays had turned down the private road, whither I hastened to follow them. I found the two girls warm in an animated discussion on the respective merits of the two young officers; but on seeing me Rosalie broke off in the middle of a sentence to exclaim, with malicious glee -
这时，绿一家人已经回到了自己的住处，默里一家人也拐进了那条私家路，我赶紧跟着他们去了。我发现这两个女孩正在热烈地讨论这两位年轻军官各自的优点。但罗莎莉一看到我，就突然中断了一句话，带着恶意的喜悦惊呼道：

‘Oh-ho, Miss Grey! you’re come at last, are you? No WONDER you lingered so long behind; and no WONDER you always stand up so vigorously for Mr. Weston when I abuse him. Ah-ha! I see it all now!’
哦哦，格雷小姐！你终于来了，是吗？难怪你在后面徘徊了这么久；难怪当我辱骂韦斯顿先生时，你总是那么积极地站出来维护他。啊哈！我现在看到了这一切！

‘Now, come, Miss Murray, don’t be foolish,’ said I, attempting a good-natured laugh; ‘you know such nonsense can make no impression on me.’
“好了，默里小姐，别犯傻了，”我说，试图善意地笑一笑。 “你知道这样的废话不会给我留下任何印象。”

But she still went on talking such intolerable stuff—her sister helping her with appropriate fiction coined for the occasion—that I thought it necessary to say something in my own justification.
但她仍然继续说一些令人难以忍受的事情——她姐姐帮她编了一些适合这个场合的小说——我认为有必要为自己辩护说点什么。

‘What folly all this is!’ I exclaimed. ‘If Mr. Weston’s road happened to be the same as mine for a few yards, and if he chose to exchange a word or two in passing, what is there so remarkable in that? I assure you, I never spoke to him before: except once.’
“这真是愚蠢至极！”我惊呼道。 “如果韦斯顿先生的路碰巧和我的路有几码是一样的，如果他选择顺便交换一两句话，那有什么了不起的呢？”我向你保证，我以前从未和他说过话：除了一次。

‘Where? where? and when?’ cried they eagerly.
'在哪里？在哪里？什么时候？”他们急切地喊道。

‘In Nancy’s cottage.’
“在南希的小屋里。”

‘Ah-ha! you’ve met him there, have you?’ exclaimed Rosalie, with exultant laughter. ‘Ah! now, Matilda, I’ve found out why she’s so fond of going to Nancy Brown’s! She goes there to flirt with Mr. Weston.’
‘啊哈！ “你在那里见过他，是吗？”罗莎莉兴奋地大笑起来。 '啊！现在，玛蒂尔达，我知道为什么她这么喜欢去南希·布朗家了！她去那里是为了和韦斯顿先生调情。

‘Really, that is not worth contradicting—I only saw him there once, I tell you—and how could I know he was coming?’
“真的，这不值得反驳——我告诉你，我只在那儿见过他一次——我怎么知道他会来呢？”

Irritated as I was at their foolish mirth and vexatious imputations, the uneasiness did not continue long: when they had had their laugh out, they returned again to the captain and lieutenant; and, while they disputed and commented upon them, my indignation rapidly cooled; the cause of it was quickly forgotten, and I turned my thoughts into a pleasanter channel. Thus we proceeded up the park, and entered the hall; and as I ascended the stairs to my own chamber, I had but one thought within me: my heart was filled to overflowing with one single earnest wish. Having entered the room, and shut the door, I fell upon my knees and offered up a fervent but not impetuous prayer: ‘Thy will be done,’ I strove to say throughout; but, ‘Father, all things are possible with Thee, and may it be Thy will,’ was sure to follow. That wish—that prayer—both men and women would have scorned me for—‘But, Father, THOU wilt NOT despise!’ I said, and felt that it was true. It seemed to me that another’s welfare was at least as ardently implored for as my own; nay, even THAT was the principal object of my heart’s desire. I might have been deceiving myself; but that idea gave me confidence to ask, and power to hope I did not ask in vain. As for the primroses, I kept two of them in a glass in my room until they were completely withered, and the housemaid threw them out; and the petals of the other I pressed between the leaves of my Bible—I have them still, and mean to keep them always.
尽管我对他们愚蠢的欢笑和无理取闹的指责感到恼火，但这种不安并没有持续太久：当他们笑完后，他们又回到了船长和中尉身边；他们又回到了船长和中尉身边。当他们争论和评论时，我的愤怒很快就平息了。事情的起因很快就被忘记了，我把思绪转向了一个更愉快的频道。我们就这样沿着公园往前走，进入了大厅。当我走上楼梯，回到自己的房间时，我心里只有一个念头：我的心里充满了一个殷切的愿望。进了房间，关上门，我跪下来，虔诚但不急躁地祈祷：“愿你的旨意得到实现，”我自始至终都努力说；但是，“天父，在你凡事皆有可能，愿这是你的旨意”，接下来肯定会这样。那个愿望——那个祈祷——无论男人还是女人都会蔑视我——“但是，父亲，你不会轻视！”我说，并觉得这是真的。在我看来，别人的福祉至少和我自己的福祉一样受到热切的恳求。不仅如此，这也是我内心渴望的主要目标。我可能一直在欺骗自己；但这个想法给了我提问的信心，也给了我希望我的提问不会白费的力量。至于报春花，我把两朵放在房间的玻璃杯里，直到它们完全枯萎，女仆才把它们扔掉；另一个花瓣我压在《圣经》的书页之间——我还保留着它们，并打算永远保留它们。

CHAPTER XIV—THE RECTOR
第十四章 校长

The following day was as fine as the preceding one. Soon after breakfast Miss Matilda, having galloped and blundered through a few unprofitable lessons, and vengeably thumped the piano for an hour, in a terrible humour with both me and it, because her mamma would not give her a holiday, had betaken herself to her favourite places of resort, the yards, the stables, and the dog-kennels; and Miss Murray was gone forth to enjoy a quiet ramble with a new fashionable novel for her companion, leaving me in the schoolroom hard at work upon a water-colour drawing which I had promised to do for her, and which she insisted upon my finishing that day.
第二天和前一天一样晴朗。早餐后不久，玛蒂尔达小姐匆匆忙忙地学完几门无利可图的课程，还报仇地敲打了一个小时的钢琴，对我和它都表现出一种可怕的幽默感，因为她妈妈不肯给她放假，她把自己交给了她。最喜欢的度假胜地、院子、马厩和狗舍；默里小姐出去享受安静的闲逛，给她的同伴一本新的流行小说，留下我在教室里埋头画一幅水彩画，这是我答应给她画的，她坚持要我完成。那天。

At my feet lay a little rough terrier. It was the property of Miss Matilda; but she hated the animal, and intended to sell it, alleging that it was quite spoiled. It was really an excellent dog of its kind; but she affirmed it was fit for nothing, and had not even the sense to know its own mistress.
我的脚边躺着一只小梗犬。这是玛蒂尔达小姐的财产；但她讨厌这只动物，打算卖掉它，声称它已经被宠坏了。它确实是同类中的优秀狗。但她断言它毫无用处，甚至没有意识去认识它自己的情妇。

The fact was she had purchased it when but a small puppy, insisting at first that no one should touch it but herself; but soon becoming tired of so helpless and troublesome a nursling, she had gladly yielded to my entreaties to be allowed to take charge of it; and I, by carefully nursing the little creature from infancy to adolescence, of course, had obtained its affections: a reward I should have greatly valued, and looked upon as far outweighing all the trouble I had had with it, had not poor Snap’s grateful feelings exposed him to many a harsh word and many a spiteful kick and pinch from his owner, and were he not now in danger of being ‘put away’ in consequence, or transferred to some rough, stonyhearted master. But how could I help it? I could not make the dog hate me by cruel treatment, and she would not propitiate him by kindness.
事实上，她在它还是一只小狗的时候就买下了它，一开始她坚持说除了她自己之外任何人都不能碰它；后来她又买了它。但她很快就厌倦了如此无助和麻烦的婴儿，很高兴地答应了我的请求，让她负责照顾它。当然，我通过精心照顾这个小动物，从婴儿期到青春期，获得了它的喜爱：如果不是可怜的斯内普感激不尽，我会非常珍惜这个奖励，并且认为它远远超过我所遇到的所有麻烦。他的感情使他遭受了主人的许多严厉的言语和恶意的踢打和捏捏，而他现在是否面临着因此被“带走”的危险，或者被转移到某个粗暴、铁石心肠的主人那里。但我又能怎样呢？我不能用残忍的方式让狗恨我，她也不会用仁慈来安抚它。

However, while I thus sat, working away with my pencil, Mrs. Murray came, half-sailing, half-bustling, into the room.
然而，正当我坐着用铅笔工作时，默里太太半风帆半忙地走进了房间。

‘Miss Grey,’ she began,—‘dear! how can you sit at your drawing such a day as this?’ (She thought I was doing it for my own pleasure.) ‘I WONDER you don’t put on your bonnet and go out with the young ladies.’
“格雷小姐，”她开始说道，“亲爱的！你怎么能在这样的日子里坐在你的画上呢？”（她认为我这样做是为了自己的快乐。）“我想知道你不戴上帽子和年轻的女士们出去。”

‘I think, ma’am, Miss Murray is reading; and Miss Matilda is amusing herself with her dogs.’
“我想，女士，默里小姐正在读书；玛蒂尔达小姐正在和她的狗一起玩耍。

‘If you would try to amuse Miss Matilda yourself a little more, I think she would not be driven to seek amusement in the companionship of dogs and horses and grooms, so much as she is; and if you would be a little more cheerful and conversable with Miss Murray, she would not so often go wandering in the fields with a book in her hand. However, I don’t want to vex you,’ added she, seeing, I suppose, that my cheeks burned and my hand trembled with some unamiable emotion. ‘Do, pray, try not to be so touchy— there’s no speaking to you else. And tell me if you know where Rosalie is gone: and why she likes to be so much alone?’
“如果你想让玛蒂尔达小姐多开心一点，我想她就不会被迫在狗、马和马夫的陪伴中寻找乐趣，尽管她确实如此；如果你能和默里小姐开朗一点、多聊聊一点，她就不会经常手里拿着一本书在田野里闲逛了。不过，我不想惹恼你。”她补充道，我想，她看到我的脸颊发烫，我的手因为某种不友好的情绪而颤抖。 “祈祷吧，尽量不要那么敏感——没有人跟你说话。如果你知道罗莎莉去了哪里，请告诉我：以及为什么她这么喜欢一个人呆着？

‘She says she likes to be alone when she has a new book to read.’
“她说当她有一本新书要读时，她喜欢一个人呆着。”

‘But why can’t she read it in the park or the garden?—why should she go into the fields and lanes? And how is it that that Mr. Hatfield so often finds her out? She told me last week he’d walked his horse by her side all up Moss Lane; and now I’m sure it was he I saw, from my dressing-room window, walking so briskly past the park-gates, and on towards the field where she so frequently goes. I wish you would go and see if she is there; and just gently remind her that it is not proper for a young lady of her rank and prospects to be wandering about by herself in that manner, exposed to the attentions of anyone that presumes to address her; like some poor neglected girl that has no park to walk in, and no friends to take care of her: and tell her that her papa would be extremely angry if he knew of her treating Mr. Hatfield in the familiar manner that I fear she does; and—oh! if you—if ANY governess had but half a mother’s watchfulness—half a mother’s anxious care, I should be saved this trouble; and you would see at once the necessity of keeping your eye upon her, and making your company agreeable to— Well, go—go; there’s no time to be lost,’ cried she, seeing that I had put away my drawing materials, and was waiting in the doorway for the conclusion of her address.
“但是为什么她不能在公园或花园里读这本书呢？——她为什么要到田野和小巷里去读呢？”哈特菲尔德先生怎么会经常发现她呢？她上周告诉我，他一直在莫斯巷的路上牵着她的马。现在我确信我从更衣室的窗户看到的就是他，他轻快地走过公园大门，朝她经常去的田野走去。我希望你能去看看她是否在那儿；只是温柔地提醒她，像她这样的地位和前途的年轻女士，以这种方式独自徘徊，暴露在任何冒充她的人的注意之下是不合适的；就像一些可怜的被忽视的女孩，没有公园可以散步，也没有朋友来照顾她：并告诉她，如果她的爸爸知道她以我担心的那种熟悉的方式对待哈特菲尔德先生，他会非常生气;还有——哦！如果你——如果任何一个家庭女教师只有一半母亲的警惕——一半母亲的焦急关怀，我就应该省去这个麻烦；你会立即意识到有必要密切关注她，并让你的同伴同意——好吧，走——走； “没有时间可以浪费了，”她喊道，看到我已经收起绘画材料，正在门口等待她的演讲结束。

According to her prognostications, I found Miss Murray in her favourite field just without the park; and, unfortunately, not alone; for the tall, stately figure of Mr. Hatfield was slowly sauntering by her side.
根据默里小姐的预测，我在公园外她最喜欢的田地里找到了她；不幸的是，并不孤单；因为哈特菲尔德先生高大威严的身影正慢慢地在她身边漫步。

Here was a poser for me. It was my duty to interrupt the tete-atete: but how was it to be done? Mr. Hatfield could not to be driven away by so insignificant person as I; and to go and place myself on the other side of Miss Murray, and intrude my unwelcome presence upon her without noticing her companion, was a piece of rudeness I could not be guilty of: neither had I the courage to cry aloud from the top of the field that she was wanted elsewhere. So I took the intermediate course of walking slowly but steadily towards them; resolving, if my approach failed to scare away the beau, to pass by and tell Miss Murray her mamma wanted her.
这对我来说是一个装腔作势的人。我有责任打断两人的交谈：但是该怎么做呢？哈特菲尔德先生不能被我这样一个无足轻重的人赶走。我走到默里小姐的另一边，在没有注意到她的同伴的情况下闯入她的不受欢迎的存在，这是一种我不能犯的粗鲁行为：我也没有勇气从山顶大声哭泣。她被其他地方通缉的领域。于是我采取了中间路线，缓慢而稳定地向他们走去；我决定，如果我的做法没能吓跑那个情人，就路过告诉默里小姐，她妈妈想要她。

She certainly looked very charming as she strolled, lingering along under the budding horse-chestnut trees that stretched their long arms over the park-palings; with her closed book in one hand, and in the other a graceful sprig of myrtle, which served her as a very pretty plaything; her bright ringlets escaping profusely from her little bonnet, and gently stirred by the breeze, her fair cheek flushed with gratified vanity, her smiling blue eyes, now slyly glancing towards her admirer, now gazing downward at her myrtle sprig. But Snap, running before me, interrupted her in the midst of some half-pert, half-playful repartee, by catching hold of her dress and vehemently tugging thereat; till Mr. Hatfield, with his cane, administered a resounding thwack upon the animal’s skull, and sent it yelping back to me with a clamorous outcry that afforded the reverend gentleman great amusement: but seeing me so near, he thought, I suppose, he might as well be taking his departure; and, as I stooped to caress the dog, with ostentatious pity to show my disapproval of his severity, I heard him say: ‘When shall I see you again, Miss Murray?’
当她漫步在发芽的七叶树下时，她确实显得非常迷人，这些树伸出长长的手臂覆盖在公园的栅栏上。她一手拿着合上的书，另一只手拿着一根优雅的香桃木小枝，这对她来说是一个非常漂亮的玩具。她明亮的卷发从她的小帽子上大量地逸出，被微风轻轻地拂动，她白皙的脸颊因满足的虚荣而泛红，她微笑的蓝眼睛，时而狡猾地瞥向她的仰慕者，时而凝视着她的香桃木小树枝。但跑在我前面的斯内普抓住她的裙子，用力拉扯，打断了她半开玩笑半俏皮的对答。直到哈特菲尔德先生用他的手杖对那只动物的头骨进行了一次响亮的重击，然后它大声叫喊着回到我身边，这给这位可敬的绅士带来了极大的乐趣：但是看到我离得这么近，他想，我想，他还不如离开呢？当我弯下腰去抚摸那只狗，表现出一种怜悯，以表达我对他严厉态度的不满时，我听到他说：“我什么时候才能再见到你，默里小姐？”

‘At church, I suppose,’ replied she, ‘unless your business chances to bring you here again at the precise moment when I happen to be walking by.’
“我想是在教堂，”她回答道，“除非你有机会在我碰巧路过的时候再次带你来这里。”

‘I could always manage to have business here, if I knew precisely when and where to find you.’
“如果我准确地知道何时何地找到你，我总能在这里做生意。”

‘But if I would, I could not inform you, for I am so immethodical, I never can tell to-day what I shall do to-morrow.’
“但即使我愿意，我也无法告诉你，因为我是如此没有条理，我永远无法告诉你今天我明天要做什么。”

‘Then give me that, meantime, to comfort me,’ said he, half jestingly and half in earnest, extending his hand for the sprig of myrtle.
“那么，请把它给我，让我安慰一下。”他半开玩笑半认真地说，伸出手去拿桃金娘的小枝。

‘No, indeed, I shan’t.’
“不，确实，我不会。”

‘Do! PRAY do! I shall be the most miserable of men if you don’t. You cannot be so cruel as to deny me a favour so easily granted and yet so highly prized!’ pleaded he as ardently as if his life depended on it.
'做！祈祷吧！如果你不这样做，我将成为最悲惨的人。你不能这么残忍，拒绝我这么容易得到却又如此珍贵的恩惠！”他热切地恳求道，仿佛他的生命就依赖于此。

By this time I stood within a very few yards of them, impatiently waiting his departure.
这时我站在离他们几码远的地方，焦急地等待着他的离开。

‘There then! take it and go,’ said Rosalie.
‘那就这样吧！拿着它就走吧，”罗莎莉说。

He joyfully received the gift, murmured something that made her blush and toss her head, but with a little laugh that showed her displeasure was entirely affected; and then with a courteous salutation withdrew.
他高兴地接过礼物，低声说了些什么，让她脸红了，摇头，但又微微一笑，表明她的不悦完全是装出来的；然后礼貌地行礼退了出去。

‘Did you ever see such a man, Miss Grey?’ said she, turning to me; ‘I’m so GLAD you came! I thought I never SHOULD, get rid of him; and I was so terribly afraid of papa seeing him.’
“格雷小姐，你见过这样的人吗？”她转向我说道。 ‘我很高兴你来了！我想我永远不应该摆脱他；我非常害怕爸爸看到他。

‘Has he been with you long?’
“他和你在一起很久了吗？”

‘No, not long, but he’s so extremely impertinent: and he’s always hanging about, pretending his business or his clerical duties require his attendance in these parts, and really watching for poor me, and pouncing upon me wherever he sees me.’
“不，没多久，但他太无礼了：他总是闲逛，假装他的生意或他的文书职责需要他参加这些部分，并且真正监视着可怜的我，无论他看到我，都会扑向我。”

‘Well, your mamma thinks you ought not to go beyond the park or garden without some discreet, matronly person like me to accompany you, and keep off all intruders. She descried Mr. Hatfield hurrying past the park-gates, and forthwith despatched me with instructions to seek you up and to take care of you, and likewise to warn—‘
“好吧，你妈妈认为，如果没有像我这样谨慎、有主妇的人陪伴，并阻止所有入侵者，你不应该走出公园或花园。她看到哈特菲尔德先生匆匆经过公园大门，立即派我去寻找你并照顾你，同时警告——”

‘Oh, mamma’s so tiresome! As if I couldn’t take care of myself. She bothered me before about Mr. Hatfield; and I told her she might trust me: I never should forget my rank and station for the most delightful man that ever breathed. I wish he would go down on his knees to-morrow, and implore me to be his wife, that I might just show her how mistaken she is in supposing that I could ever—Oh, it provokes me so! To think that I could be such a fool as to fall in LOVE! It is quite beneath the dignity of a woman to do such a thing. Love! I detest the word! As applied to one of our sex, I think it a perfect insult. A preference I MIGHT acknowledge; but never for one like poor Mr. Hatfield, who has not seven hundred a year to bless himself with. I like to talk to him, because he’s so clever and amusing—I wish Sir Thomas Ashby were half as nice; besides, I must have SOMEBODY to flirt with, and no one else has the sense to come here; and when we go out, mamma won’t let me flirt with anybody but Sir Thomas—if he’s there; and if he’s NOT there, I’m bound hand and foot, for fear somebody should go and make up some exaggerated story, and put it into his head that I’m engaged, or likely to be engaged, to somebody else; or, what is more probable, for fear his nasty old mother should see or hear of my ongoings, and conclude that I’m not a fit wife for her excellent son: as if the said son were not the greatest scamp in Christendom; and as if any woman of common decency were not a world too good for him.’
「哎哟，妈妈真是太累了！」好像我无法照顾自己一样。她以前曾因为哈特菲尔德先生的事烦扰过我。我告诉她她可以信任我：我永远不应该忘记我作为有史以来最令人愉快的男人的地位和地位。我希望他明天能跪下，恳求我成为他的妻子，这样我就可以向她表明，她认为我可以——哦，这太激怒了我！没想到我会这么傻，竟然会坠入爱河！一个女人做出这样的事，实在是有失尊严。爱！我讨厌这个词！当应用于我们的性别时，我认为这是一种完美的侮辱。我可能会承认的偏好；但对于像可怜的哈特菲尔德先生这样的人来说，这绝对不是，他一年没有七百英镑可以为自己祝福。我喜欢和他说话，因为他是如此聪明和有趣——我希望托马斯·阿什比爵士也有一半友善；此外，我必须有一个可以调情的人，而没有其他人有理由来这里；当我们出去时，妈妈不会让我和托马斯爵士以外的任何人调情——如果他在的话；如果他不在，我的手脚就会被绑起来，生怕有人去编造一些夸张的故事，让他相信我已经订婚了，或者可能会和别人订婚了；或者，更可能的是，担心他那可恶的老母亲会看到或听到我的所作所为，并得出结论说我不适合她优秀的儿子的妻子：好像那个儿子不是基督教世界里最大的流氓；好像任何一个正派的女人都不适合他。

‘Is it really so, Miss Murray? and does your mamma know it, and yet wish you to marry him?’
“真的是这样吗，默里小姐？你妈妈知道这一点，但仍希望你嫁给他吗？

‘To be sure, she does! She knows more against him than I do, I believe: she keeps it from me lest I should be discouraged; not knowing how little I care about such things. For it’s no great matter, really: he’ll be all right when he’s married, as mamma says; and reformed rakes make the best husbands, EVERYBODY knows. I only wish he were not so ugly—THAT’S all I think about: but then there’s no choice here in the country; and papa WILL NOT let us go to London—‘
“可以肯定的是，她确实这么做了！我相信，她比我更了解他的情况：她瞒着我，以免我灰心丧气。不知道我对这些事情是多么不关心。因为这真的不是什么大事：正如妈妈所说，他结婚后就会好起来的。众所周知，改革后的耙子是最好的丈夫。我只希望他不要那么丑——这就是我所想的：但是在这个国家没有选择；这就是我所想的。爸爸不会让我们去伦敦——”

‘But I should think Mr. Hatfield would be far better.’
“但我认为哈特菲尔德先生会好得多。”

‘And so he would, if he were lord of Ashby Park—there’s not a doubt of it: but the fact is, I MUST have Ashby Park, whoever shares it with me.’
“如果他是阿什比公园的领主，他就会这么做——这是毫无疑问的：但事实是，我必须拥有阿什比公园，无论谁与我分享它。”

‘But Mr. Hatfield thinks you like him all this time; you don’t consider how bitterly he will be disappointed when he finds himself mistaken.’
“但是哈特菲尔德先生认为你一直喜欢他；你不会想到，当他发现自己犯了错误时，他会多么失望。

‘NO, indeed! It will be a proper punishment for his presumption— for ever DARING to think I could like him. I should enjoy nothing so much as lifting the veil from his eyes.’
‘不，确实如此！这将是对他的自以为是的适当惩罚——永远敢于认为我会喜欢他。没有什么比揭开他眼睛上的面纱更让我高兴的了。

‘The sooner you do it the better then.’
“越早做越好。”

‘No; I tell you, I like to amuse myself with him. Besides, he doesn’t really think I like him. I take good care of that: you don’t know how cleverly I manage. He may presume to think he can induce me to like him; for which I shall punish him as he deserves.’
'不;我告诉你，我喜欢和他一起自娱自乐。而且，他并不认为我真的喜欢他。我很好地处理了这一点：你不知道我处理得有多聪明。他可能认为他可以诱使我喜欢他；但事实并非如此。为此我将惩罚他，这是他应得的。

‘Well, mind you don’t give too much reason for such presumption— that’s all,’ replied I.
“好吧，请注意，你不要为这种假设给出太多理由——仅此而已，”我回答道。

But all my exhortations were in vain: they only made her somewhat more solicitous to disguise her wishes and her thoughts from me. She talked no more to me about the Rector; but I could see that her mind, if not her heart, was fixed upon him still, and that she was intent upon obtaining another interview: for though, in compliance with her mother’s request, I was now constituted the companion of her rambles for a time, she still persisted in wandering in the fields and lanes that lay in the nearest proximity to the road; and, whether she talked to me or read the book she carried in her hand, she kept continually pausing to look round her, or gaze up the road to see if anyone was coming; and if a horseman trotted by, I could tell by her unqualified abuse of the poor equestrian, whoever he might be, that she hated him BECAUSE he was not Mr. Hatfield.
但我所有的劝告都是徒劳的：这只会让她更加殷勤地向我掩饰她的愿望和想法。她不再和我谈论校长了。但我看得出来，她的心思，如果不是她的心，仍然集中在他身上，而且她一心想获得另一次采访：尽管如此，按照她母亲的要求，我现在成了她散步的同伴。那时，她仍然执着地在离马路最近的田野和小巷里徘徊。而且，无论她是跟我说话还是读她手里的书，她都会不断地停下来环顾四周，或者抬头凝视道路，看看是否有人过来。如果有一个骑马的人小跑过去，我可以从她对可怜的马术士无条件的辱骂中看出，无论他是谁，她恨他，因为他不是哈特菲尔德先生。

‘Surely,’ thought I, ‘she is not so indifferent to him as she believes herself to be, or would have others to believe her; and her mother’s anxiety is not so wholly causeless as she affirms.’
“当然，”我想，“她对他并不像她自己认为的那样冷漠，或者想让别人相信她；她对他并不那么冷漠。”她母亲的焦虑并不像她所声称的那样完全没有原因。

Three days passed away, and he did not make his appearance. On the afternoon of the fourth, as we were walking beside the park-palings in the memorable field, each furnished with a book (for I always took care to provide myself with something to be doing when she did not require me to talk), she suddenly interrupted my studies by exclaiming -
三天过去了，他却没有露面。第四天下午，当我们在令人难忘的田野里的公园栅栏旁散步时，每人都配有一本书（因为当她不需要我说话时，我总是小心地为自己提供一些事情可做），她突然打断了我的学习，大声喊道——

‘Oh, Miss Grey! do be so kind as to go and see Mark Wood, and take his wife half-a-crown from me—I should have given or sent it a week ago, but quite forgot. There!’ said she, throwing me her purse, and speaking very fast—‘Never mind getting it out now, but take the purse and give them what you like; I would go with you, but I want to finish this volume. I’ll come and meet you when I’ve done it. Be quick, will you—and—oh, wait; hadn’t you better read to him a bit? Run to the house and get some sort of a good book. Anything will do.’
“噢，格雷小姐！请您好心去见马克·伍德，从我这里拿走他的妻子半个克朗——我应该在一周前就给或寄出去，但完全忘记了。好了！”她说着，把她的钱包扔给我，语速很快——“别介意现在把它拿出来，拿走钱包，给他们你喜欢的东西；我会和你一起去，但我想完成这本书。完成后我会来见你。快点，好吗——还有——哦，等等；你不是最好读一点给他听吗？跑到家里去拿一本好书。任何事情都可以。

I did as I was desired; but, suspecting something from her hurried manner and the suddenness of the request, I just glanced back before I quitted the field, and there was Mr. Hatfield about to enter at the gate below. By sending me to the house for a book, she had just prevented my meeting him on the road.
我按照我的意愿做了；但是，从她匆忙的态度和突然的请求中，我怀疑有什么事情，在离开场地之前我回头看了一眼，哈特菲尔德先生正要从下面的大门进来。她派我去家里取书，正好阻止我在路上遇见他。

‘Never mind!’ thought I, ‘there’ll be no great harm done. Poor Mark will be glad of the half-crown, and perhaps of the good book too; and if the Rector does steal Miss Rosalie’s heart, it will only humble her pride a little; and if they do get married at last, it will only save her from a worse fate; and she will be quite a good enough partner for him, and he for her.’
“没关系！”我想，“不会造成太大伤害的。”可怜的马克会因为这半克朗而高兴，也许也会因为这本好书而高兴。如果校长真的偷走了罗莎莉小姐的心，那只会让她的自尊心稍稍受到损害。如果他们最终真的结婚了，那只会让她免于更糟糕的命运。她对他来说是一个足够好的伴侣，他对她来说也是一个足够好的伴侣。

Mark Wood was the consumptive labourer whom I mentioned before. He was now rapidly wearing away. Miss Murray, by her liberality, obtained literally the blessing of him that was ready to perish; for though the half-crown could be of very little service to him, he was glad of it for the sake of his wife and children, so soon to be widowed and fatherless. After I had sat a few minutes, and read a little for the comfort and edification of himself and his afflicted wife, I left them; but I had not proceeded fifty yards before I encountered Mr. Weston, apparently on his way to the same abode. He greeted me in his usual quiet, unaffected way, stopped to inquire about the condition of the sick man and his family, and with a sort of unconscious, brotherly disregard to ceremony took from my hand the book out of which I had been reading, turned over its pages, made a few brief but very sensible remarks, and restored it; then told me about some poor sufferer he had just been visiting, talked a little about Nancy Brown, made a few observations upon my little rough friend the terrier, that was frisking at his feet, and finally upon the beauty of the weather, and departed.
马克·伍德就是我之前提到的消耗性劳动者。他现在正在迅速消退。默里小姐以她的慷慨，确实得到了即将灭亡的他的祝福。虽然这半克朗对他来说没什么用处，但为了他的妻子和孩子，他很高兴，因为他很快就会成为寡妇和孤儿。我坐了几分钟，读了一点书，以安慰和启发他和他受苦的妻子，然后我就离开了他们。但我还没走出五十码就遇到了韦斯顿先生，他显然正在去同一处住所的路上。他以一贯的安静、不受影响的方式向我打招呼，停下来询问病人及其家人的情况，并以一种无意识的、兄弟般的无礼态度从我手中拿走了我正在读的书，翻了几页，做了一些简短但非常明智的评论，然后又恢复了它；然后告诉我他刚刚拜访过的一个可怜的病人，谈了一些关于南希·布朗的事，对我粗暴的小朋友梗犬做了一些观察，它在他脚下跳来跳去，最后谈到了美丽的天气，然后就离开了。

I have omitted to give a detail of his words, from a notion that they would not interest the reader as they did me, and not because I have forgotten them. No; I remember them well; for I thought them over and over again in the course of that day and many succeeding ones, I know not how often; and recalled every intonation of his deep, clear voice, every flash of his quick, brown eye, and every gleam of his pleasant, but too transient smile. Such a confession will look very absurd, I fear: but no matter: I have written it: and they that read it will not know the writer.
我省略了他的话的细节，因为他们不会像对我那样引起读者的兴趣，而不是因为我已经忘记了它们。不;我记得很清楚；因为那天我一遍又一遍地思考这些问题，之后又想了很多次，我不知道有多少次。他回想起他深沉而清晰的声音的每一个语调，他敏捷的棕色眼睛的每一次闪光，以及他愉快但过于短暂的微笑的每一道光芒。我担心这样的自白看起来很荒谬：但没关系：我已经写了它：而读过它的人不会认识作者。

While I was walking along, happy within, and pleased with all around, Miss Murray came hastening to meet me; her buoyant step, flushed cheek, and radiant smiles showing that she, too, was happy, in her own way. Running up to me, she put her arm through mine, and without waiting to recover breath, began—‘Now, Miss Grey, think yourself highly honoured, for I’m come to tell you my news before I’ve breathed a word of it to anyone else.’
当我走在路上，心里很高兴，对周围的一切都很满意时，默里小姐急忙来迎接我。她轻快的步伐、通红的脸颊和灿烂的笑容表明她也以自己的方式感到幸福。她跑到我身边，挽住我的手臂，不等喘口气，就开始说道：“现在，格雷小姐，你感到非常荣幸，因为我还没来得及呼吸一句话，就来告诉你我的消息了。”给其他人。

‘Well, what is it?’
“嗯，那是什么？”

‘Oh, SUCH news! In the first place, you must know that Mr. Hatfield came upon me just after you were gone. I was in such a way for fear papa or mamma should see him; but you know I couldn’t call you back again, and so!—oh, dear! I can’t tell you all about it now, for there’s Matilda, I see, in the park, and I must go and open my budget to her. But, however, Hatfield was most uncommonly audacious, unspeakably complimentary, and unprecedentedly tender— tried to be so, at least—he didn’t succeed very well in THAT, because it’s not his vein. I’ll tell you all he said another time.’
‘哦，这样的消息！首先，你必须知道，你刚走后，哈特菲尔德先生就来找我了。我之所以这样，是因为害怕爸爸或妈妈看到他。但你知道我不能再给你回电话了，所以！——哦，天哪！我现在不能告诉你一切，因为我看到玛蒂尔达在公园里，我必须去向她公开我的预算。但是，然而，哈特菲尔德是最不寻常的大胆，难以形容的赞美，和前所未有的温柔——至少试图如此——他在这方面并没有取得很好的成功，因为这不是他的风格。我下次再告诉你他说的一切。

‘But what did YOU say—I’m more interested in that?’
“但是你说什么——我对此更感兴趣？”

‘I’ll tell you that, too, at some future period. I happened to be in a very good humour just then; but, though I was complaisant and gracious enough, I took care not to compromise myself in any possible way. But, however, the conceited wretch chose to interpret my amiability of temper his own way, and at length presumed upon my indulgence so far—what do you think?—he actually made me an offer!’
“我也会在未来的某个时期告诉你这一点。那时我的心情正好很好。但是，尽管我很随和、很有礼貌，但我还是小心翼翼地不让自己以任何可能的方式妥协。然而，这个自负的家伙却选择用他自己的方式来解释我的和蔼可亲，并最终推测了我迄今为止的宽容——你觉得怎么样？——他居然向我提出了要约！

‘And you—‘
'你呢-'

‘I proudly drew myself up, and with the greatest coolness expressed my astonishment at such an occurrence, and hoped he had seen nothing in my conduct to justify his expectations. You should have SEEN how his countenance fell! He went perfectly white in the face. I assured him that I esteemed him and all that, but could not possibly accede to his proposals; and if I did, papa and mamma could never be brought to give their consent.’
“我自豪地挺起身子，以极大的冷静表达了我对这种情况的惊讶，并希望他没有看到我的行为证明了他的期望。你真应该看看他的脸色是怎样的！他的脸色变得惨白。我向他保证我尊重他等等，但不可能同意他的建议。如果我这样做了，爸爸和妈妈永远不会同意。

‘’But if they could,’ said he, ‘would yours be wanting?’
“但如果他们可以，”他说，“你的会缺吗？”

‘’Certainly, Mr. Hatfield,’ I replied, with a cool decision which quelled all hope at once. Oh, if you had seen how dreadfully mortified he was—how crushed to the earth by his disappointment! really, I almost pitied him myself.
“当然可以，哈特菲尔德先生。”我回答道，这个冷静的决定立刻浇灭了所有的希望。哦，如果你看到他是多么的羞愧——他的失望是多么地压倒在地！说实话，我自己都快可怜他了。

‘One more desperate attempt, however, he made. After a silence of considerable duration, during which he struggled to be calm, and I to be grave—for I felt a strong propensity to laugh—which would have ruined all—he said, with the ghost of a smile—‘But tell me plainly, Miss Murray, if I had the wealth of Sir Hugh Meltham, or the prospects of his eldest son, would you still refuse me? Answer me truly, upon your honour.’
“然而，他又做了一次绝望的尝试。经过相当长一段时间的沉默后，他努力保持冷静，而我则表现得很严肃——因为我感到很想笑——这会毁掉一切——他带着幽灵般的微笑说道——“但是告诉我说白了，默里小姐，如果我拥有休·梅尔瑟姆爵士的财富，或者他长子的前途，你还会拒绝我吗？以你的名誉担保，请如实回答我。”

‘’Certainly,’ said I. ‘That would make no difference whatever.’
“当然，”我说，“那没有什么区别。”

‘It was a great lie, but he looked so confident in his own attractions still, that I determined not to leave him one stone upon another. He looked me full in the face; but I kept my countenance so well that he could not imagine I was saying anything more than the actual truth.
“这是一个弥天大谎，但他看起来仍然对自己的吸引力如此自信，所以我决定不让他一举一动。他正视着我的脸。但我的表情保持​​得很好，他无法想象我说的不是事实。

‘’Then it’s all over, I suppose,’ he said, looking as if he could have died on the spot with vexation and the intensity of his despair. But he was angry as well as disappointed. There was he, suffering so unspeakably, and there was I, the pitiless cause of it all, so utterly impenetrable to all the artillery of his looks and words, so calmly cold and proud, he could not but feel some resentment; and with singular bitterness he began—‘I certainly did not expect this, Miss Murray. I might say something about your past conduct, and the hopes you have led me to foster, but I forbear, on condition—‘
“那么，我想，一切都结束了，”他说道，看上去他可能会因为烦恼和绝望而当场死去。但他既愤怒又失望。他在那里，遭受着无法形容的痛苦，而我，是这一切的无情根源，他的外表和言语的炮火完全无法理解，如此冷静、冷酷和骄傲，他不禁感到有些怨恨；他带着一种奇异的痛苦开始说道：“我当然没想到会是这样，默里小姐。我可能会说一些关于你过去的行为，以及你让我抱有的希望，但我不会说，条件是——”

‘’No conditions, Mr. Hatfield!’ said I, now truly indignant at his insolence.
“没有条件，哈特菲尔德先生！”我说道，现在对他的无礼感到非常愤怒。

‘’Then let me beg it as a favour,’ he replied, lowering his voice at once, and taking a humbler tone: ‘let me entreat that you will not mention this affair to anyone whatever. If you will keep silence about it, there need be no unpleasantness on either side— nothing, I mean, beyond what is quite unavoidable: for my own feelings I will endeavour to keep to myself, if I cannot annihilate them—I will try to forgive, if I cannot forget the cause of my sufferings. I will not suppose, Miss Murray, that you know how deeply you have injured me. I would not have you aware of it; but if, in addition to the injury you have already done me—pardon me, but, whether innocently or not, you HAVE done it—and if you add to it by giving publicity to this unfortunate affair, or naming it AT ALL, you will find that I too can speak, and though you scorned my love, you will hardly scorn my—‘
“那我就拜托你了，”他立即压低了声音，语气更加谦虚：“我恳求你不要向任何人提起这件事。”如果你对此保持沉默，双方都不会产生不愉快的事情——我的意思是，除了不可避免的事情之外，没有什么：对于我自己的感情，我会尽力保守自己，如果我不能消灭它们——我会尽力如果我不能忘记我受苦的原因，请原谅我。默里小姐，我不认为你知道你对我的伤害有多深。我不会让你意识到这一点；但是，如果，除了你已经对我造成的伤害之外——请原谅，但是，无论是否无辜，你已经做了这件事——如果你通过公开这件不幸的事情，或者根本点名它来雪上加霜，那么你你会发现我也能说话，虽然你蔑视我的爱，但你很难蔑视我的——”

‘He stopped, but he bit his bloodless lip, and looked so terribly fierce that I was quite frightened. However, my pride upheld me still, and I answered disdainfully; ‘I do not know what motive you suppose I could have for naming it to anyone, Mr. Hatfield; but if I were disposed to do so, you would not deter me by threats; and it is scarcely the part of a gentleman to attempt it.’
“他停了下来，但他咬住了没有血色的嘴唇，看上去凶猛得可怕，让我很害怕。然而，我的骄傲仍然支撑着我，我轻蔑地回答道； “我不知道你认为我向任何人提及它的动机是什么，哈特菲尔德先生；但如果我愿意这样做，你就不会用威胁来阻止我；尝试这样做几乎不是绅士的行为。

‘’Pardon me, Miss Murray,’ said he, ‘I have loved you so intenselyI do still adore you so deeply, that I would not willingly offend you; but though I never have loved, and never CAN love any woman as I have loved you, it is equally certain that I never was so illtreated by any. On the contrary, I have always found your sex the kindest and most tender and obliging of God’s creation, till now.’ (Think of the conceited fellow saying that!) ‘And the novelty and harshness of the lesson you have taught me to-day, and the bitterness of being disappointed in the only quarter on which the happiness of my life depended, must excuse any appearance of asperity. If my presence is disagreeable to you, Miss Murray,’ he said (for I was looking about me to show how little I cared for him, so he thought I was tired of him, I suppose)—‘if my presence is disagreeable to you, Miss Murray, you have only to promise me the favour I named, and I will relieve you at once. There are many ladies—some even in this parish—who would be delighted to accept what you have so scornfully trampled under your feet. They would be naturally inclined to hate one whose surpassing loveliness has so completely estranged my heart from them and blinded me to their attractions; and a single hint of the truth from me to one of these would be sufficient to raise such a talk against you as would seriously injure your prospects, and diminish your chance of success with any other gentleman you or your mamma might design to entangle.’
“请原谅，默里小姐，”他说，“我是如此强烈地爱着你，我仍然如此深爱着你，所以我不会心甘情愿地冒犯你。尽管我从来没有像爱你那样爱过任何女人，也永远无法爱任何女人，但同样可以肯定的是，我从来没有被任何女人如此虐待过。相反，直到现在，我一直认为你们的性别是上帝创造的最善良、最温柔、最乐于助人的性别。”（想想那个自负的家伙这么说吧！）“而你教给我的教训既新颖又严厉——那天，以及对我一生的幸福所依赖的唯一一个季度感到失望的痛苦，必须原谅任何粗暴的表现。如果我的存在让你感到不愉快，默里小姐，”他说（因为我环顾四周，以表明我对他有多么不关心，所以我想他认为我厌倦了他）——“如果我的存在让你不愉快。默里小姐，你只要答应我所指定的条件，我就会立即解救你。有很多女士——有些甚至在这个教区——她们会很高兴接受你如此轻蔑地践踏在脚下的东西。他们自然会讨厌一个人，因为他的可爱使我的心与他们完全疏远，使我对他们的吸引力视而不见。我对其中一个人透露一点事实真相就足以引发针对你的言论，这会严重损害你的前景，并减少你与你或你妈妈可能设计纠缠的任何其他绅士成功的机会。

‘’What do your mean, sir?’ said I, ready to stamp with passion.
“您的意思是什么，先生？”我说道，准备激动地跺脚。

‘’I mean that this affair from beginning to end appears to me like a case of arrant flirtation, to say the least of it—such a case as you would find it rather inconvenient to have blazoned through the world: especially with the additions and exaggerations of your female rivals, who would be too glad to publish the matter, if I only gave them a handle to it. But I promise you, on the faith of a gentleman, that no word or syllable that could tend to your prejudice shall ever escape my lips, provided you will—‘
“我的意思是，在我看来，这件事从头到尾都像是一个彻头彻尾的调情案件，至少可以这样说——这样的案件如果在全世界范围内传播是相当不方便的：尤其是在增加和你的女性竞争对手的夸大其词，如果我给她们一个处理此事的机会，她们会很乐意发表这件事的。但我以绅士的信念向你保证，任何可能导致你偏见的词或音节都不会从我嘴里漏出来，只要你愿意——”

‘’Well, well, I won’t mention it,’ said I. ‘You may rely upon my silence, if that can afford you any consolation.’
“好吧，好吧，我不提这件事了，”我说，“如果我的沉默能给你带来任何安慰的话，你可以信赖我。”

‘’You promise it?’
“你答应了吗？”

‘’Yes,’ I answered; for I wanted to get rid of him now.
“是的，”我回答道。因为我现在就想摆脱他。

‘’Farewell, then!’ said he, in a most doleful, heart-sick tone; and with a look where pride vainly struggled against despair, he turned and went away: longing, no doubt, to get home, that he might shut himself up in his study and cry—if he doesn’t burst into tears before he gets there.’
“那么，再见了！”他用一种极其悲伤、令人心痛的语气说道。他一脸骄傲地与绝望作斗争的表情，转身离去：毫无疑问，他渴望回家，这样他就可以把自己关在书房里哭——如果他在到家之前没有放声大哭的话。 .'

‘But you have broken your promise already,’ said I, truly horrified at her perfidy.
“但你已经违背了你的诺言，”我说，对她的背信弃义感到非常震惊。

‘Oh! it’s only to you; I know you won’t repeat it.’
'哦！只属于你；我知道你不会重蹈覆辙。

‘Certainly, I shall not: but you say you are going to tell your sister; and she will tell your brothers when they come home, and Brown immediately, if you do not tell her yourself; and Brown will blazon it, or be the means of blazoning it, throughout the country.’
“当然，我不会，但你说你要告诉你妹妹；当你的兄弟们回家时，她会告诉他们，如果你不亲自告诉她，她也会立即告诉布朗。布朗将在全国范围内标榜它，或者成为标榜它的手段。

‘No, indeed, she won’t. We shall not tell her at all, unless it be under the promise of the strictest secrecy.’
‘不，确实，她不会。我们根本不会告诉她，除非得到最严格保密的承诺。”

‘But how can you expect her to keep her promises better than her more enlightened mistress?’
“但是你怎么能指望她比她开明的情妇更好地履行诺言呢？”

‘Well, well, she shan’t hear it then,’ said Miss Murray, somewhat snappishly.
“好吧，好吧，那么她就听不到了，”默里小姐有些不耐烦地说。

‘But you will tell your mamma, of course,’ pursued I; ‘and she will tell your papa.’
“但是你当然会告诉你妈妈，”我继续说道。 “她会告诉你爸爸的。”

‘Of course I shall tell mamma—that is the very thing that pleases me so much. I shall now be able to convince her how mistaken she was in her fears about me.’
“我当然会告诉妈妈——这正是让我非常高兴的事情。我现在可以让她相信她对我的恐惧是多么错误。

‘Oh, THAT’S it, is it? I was wondering what it was that delighted you so much.’
‘哦，就是这样，是吗？我想知道是什么让你如此高兴。

‘Yes; and another thing is, that I’ve humbled Mr. Hatfield so charmingly; and another—why, you must allow me some share of female vanity: I don’t pretend to be without that most essential attribute of our sex—and if you had seen poor Hatfield’s intense eagerness in making his ardent declaration and his flattering proposal, and his agony of mind, that no effort of pride could conceal, on being refused, you would have allowed I had some cause to be gratified.’
'是的;另一件事是，我如此迷人地谦卑了哈特菲尔德先生。还有一个——为什么，你必须允许我分享一些女性的虚荣心：我不会假装没有我们性别最本质的属性——如果你看到可怜的哈特菲尔德在做出他的热情宣言和他奉承的提议时的强烈渴望，和他内心的痛苦，任何骄傲的努力都无法掩盖，一旦被拒绝，你就会让我有一些值得满足的理由。

‘The greater his agony, I should think, the less your cause for gratification.’
“我认为，他的痛苦越大，你就越没有满足的理由。”

‘Oh, nonsense!’ cried the young lady, shaking herself with vexation. ‘You either can’t understand me, or you won’t. If I had not confidence in your magnanimity, I should think you envied me. But you will, perhaps, comprehend this cause of pleasure—which is as great as any—namely, that I am delighted with myself for my prudence, my self-command, my heartlessness, if you please. I was not a bit taken by surprise, not a bit confused, or awkward, or foolish; I just acted and spoke as I ought to have done, and was completely my own mistress throughout. And here was a man, decidedly good-looking—Jane and Susan Green call him bewitchingly handsome I suppose they’re two of the ladies he pretends would be so glad to have him; but, however, he was certainly a very clever, witty, agreeable companion—not what you call clever, but just enough to make him entertaining; and a man one needn’t be ashamed of anywhere, and would not soon grow tired of; and to confess the truth, I rather liked him—better even, of late, than Harry Meltham—and he evidently idolised me; and yet, though he came upon me all alone and unprepared, I had the wisdom, and the pride, and the strength to refuse him—and so scornfully and coolly as I did: I have good reason to be proud of that.’
“哦，胡说八道！”年轻女士恼怒地摇晃着身子喊道。 ‘你要么无法理解我，要么就不会。如果我对你的大度没有信心，我会认为你嫉妒我。但也许你会理解这种快乐的原因——它是最伟大的——也就是说，如果你愿意的话，我对自己的谨慎、自我控制和无情感到高兴。我没有一点惊讶，没有一点困惑，或尴尬，或愚蠢;我只是做我该做的、该说的，完全是我自己的情妇。这是一个男人，长得绝对英俊——简和苏珊·格林称他英俊得令人着迷，我想他们是他假装很高兴拥有他的两位女士；他们是他的女儿。不过，他确实是一个非常聪明、机智、令人愉快的伙伴——不是你所说的聪明，但足以让他感到有趣；一个人不必为任何地方感到羞耻，也不会很快感到厌倦；说实话，我相当喜欢他——最近甚至比哈利·梅尔瑟姆还要好——而且他显然很崇拜我；然而，尽管他孤身一人、毫无准备地向我袭来，我却有智慧、骄傲和力量拒绝他——而且像我那样轻蔑而冷酷地拒绝他：我有充分的理由为此感到自豪。

‘And are you equally proud of having told him that his having the wealth of Sir Hugh Meltham would make no difference to you, when that was not the case; and of having promised to tell no one of his misadventure, apparently without the slightest intention of keeping your promise?’
“你是否同样​​自豪地告诉他，他拥有休·梅尔瑟姆爵士的财富对你来说没有任何影响，但事实并非如此？”并承诺不告诉任何人他的不幸经历，显然没有丝毫遵守诺言的意图？

‘Of course! what else could I do? You would not have had me—but I see, Miss Grey, you’re not in a good temper. Here’s Matilda; I’ll see what she and mamma have to say about it.’
'当然！我还能做什么？你本来不会拥有我——但我知道，格雷小姐，你的脾气不太好。这是玛蒂尔达；我会看看她和妈妈对此有何评论。

She left me, offended at my want of sympathy, and thinking, no doubt, that I envied her. I did not—at least, I firmly believed I did not. I was sorry for her; I was amazed, disgusted at her heartless vanity; I wondered why so much beauty should be given to those who made so bad a use of it, and denied to some who would make it a benefit to both themselves and others.
她离开了我，因为我缺乏同情心而生气，毫无疑问，她认为我嫉妒她。我没有——至少，我坚信我没有。我为她感到难过；我对她无情的虚荣心感到惊讶和厌恶。我想知道为什么要给那些如此糟糕地利用它的人如此多的美丽，而拒绝给那些想让它为自己和他人带来好处的人。

But, God knows best, I concluded. There are, I suppose, some men as vain, as selfish, and as heartless as she is, and, perhaps, such women may be useful to punish them.
但是，上帝最清楚，我总结道。我想，有些男人和她一样虚荣、自私、无情，也许，这样的女人可能有助于惩罚他们。

CHAPTER XV—THE WALK
第十五章——步行

’Oh, dear! I wish Hatfield had not been so precipitate!’ said Rosalie next day at four P.M., as, with a portentous yawn, she laid down her worsted-work and looked listlessly towards the window. ‘There’s no inducement to go out now; and nothing to look forward to. The days will be so long and dull when there are no parties to enliven them; and there are none this week, or next either, that I know of.’
'哦亲爱的！我希望哈特菲尔德不要这么鲁莽！”第二天下午四点，罗莎莉说道，她一边打着不祥的哈欠，一边放下她的毛衣，无精打采地看着窗户。 “现在没有理由出去；没有什么值得期待的。没有聚会的陪伴，日子会变得漫长而沉闷。据我所知，本周或下周都没有。”

‘Pity you were so cross to him,’ observed Matilda, to whom this lamentation was addressed. ‘He’ll never come again: and I suspect you liked him after all. I hoped you would have taken him for your beau, and left dear Harry to me.’
“可惜你对他太生气了，”玛蒂尔达说道，这句哀叹是写给她的。 “他永远不会再来了：我怀疑你毕竟喜欢他。”我希望你把他当作你的情人，把亲爱的哈利留给我。

‘Humph! my beau must be an Adonis indeed, Matilda, the admired of all beholders, if I am to be contented with him alone. I’m sorry to lose Hatfield, I confess; but the first decent man, or number of men, that come to supply his place, will be more than welcome. It’s Sunday to-morrow—I do wonder how he’ll look, and whether he’ll be able to go through the service. Most likely he’ll pretend he’s got a cold, and make Mr. Weston do it all.’
'哼！如果我只对他感到满意的话，我的情人一定是一位真正的阿多尼斯，玛蒂尔达，所有旁观者都钦佩的人。我承认，我很遗憾失去了哈特菲尔德。但是第一个正派的人，或者说第一批正派的人来填补他的空缺，将会受到热烈的欢迎。明天是周日——我确实想知道他会是什么样子，以及他是否能够参加葬礼。他很可能会假装自己感冒了，让韦斯顿先生做这一切。

‘Not he!’ exclaimed Matilda, somewhat contemptuously. ‘Fool as he is, he’s not so soft as that comes to.’
“不是他！”玛蒂尔达有些轻蔑地喊道。 “虽然他很蠢，但他可没那么软弱。”

Her sister was slightly offended; but the event proved Matilda was right: the disappointed lover performed his pastoral duties as usual. Rosalie, indeed, affirmed he looked very pale and dejected: he might be a little paler; but the difference, if any, was scarcely perceptible. As for his dejection, I certainly did not hear his laugh ringing from the vestry as usual, nor his voice loud in hilarious discourse; though I did hear it uplifted in rating the sexton in a manner that made the congregation stare; and, in his transits to and from the pulpit and the communion-table, there was more of solemn pomp, and less of that irreverent, self-confident, or rather self-delighted imperiousness with which he usually swept along—that air that seemed to say, ‘You all reverence and adore me, I know; but if anyone does not, I defy him to the teeth!’ But the most remarkable change was, that he never once suffered his eyes to wander in the direction of Mr. Murray’s pew, and did not leave the church till we were gone.
她姐姐有点生气。但事实证明玛蒂尔达是对的：失望的情人像往常一样履行了他的牧师职责。确实，罗莎莉确认他看起来非常苍白和沮丧：他可能更苍白一点；他的脸色可能更苍白一些。但即使有差别，也几乎察觉不到。至于他的沮丧，我当然没有听到他像往常一样在教区室里响起的笑声，也没有听到他大声搞笑的谈话；尽管我确实听到人们对教堂司事的评价很高，其方式让会众们都瞪大了眼睛；而且，在他往返讲坛和圣餐台的过程中，更多的是庄严的排场，而不是他通常所表现出的那种不敬、自信，或者更确切地说是自鸣得意的专横——那种空气似乎说：‘我知道你们都尊敬我、崇拜我；但最显着的变化是，他的目光从不向默里先生的长凳方向游移，直到我们离开后才离开教堂。

Mr. Hatfield had doubtless received a very severe blow; but his pride impelled him to use every effort to conceal the effects of it. He had been disappointed in his certain hope of obtaining not only a beautiful, and, to him, highly attractive wife, but one whose rank and fortune might give brilliance to far inferior charms: he was likewise, no doubt, intensely mortified by his repulse, and deeply offended at the conduct of Miss Murray throughout. It would have given him no little consolation to have known how disappointed she was to find him apparently so little moved, and to see that he was able to refrain from casting a single glance at her throughout both services; though, she declared, it showed he was thinking of her all the time, or his eyes would have fallen upon her, if it were only by chance: but if they had so chanced to fall, she would have affirmed it was because they could not resist the attraction. It might have pleased him, too, in some degree, to have seen how dull and dissatisfied she was throughout that week (the greater part of it, at least), for lack of her usual source of excitement; and how often she regretted having ‘used him up so soon,’ like a child that, having devoured its plumcake too hastily, sits sucking its fingers, and vainly lamenting its greediness.
哈特菲尔德先生无疑受到了非常严重的打击。但他的骄傲迫使他竭尽全力掩盖其影响。他原本希望得到的妻子不仅是一位美丽的、对他来说极具吸引力的妻子，而且其地位和财富可能会赋予远低于他的魅力以辉煌的妻子：毫无疑问，他同样因自己的拒绝而感到强烈的羞辱。 ，并对默里小姐自始至终的行为深感冒犯。如果他知道她发现他显然毫无动静是多么失望，并且看到他在两次仪式中都没有看她一眼，这会给他带来不小的安慰。她宣称，尽管如此，这表明他一直在想着她，否则他的目光就会落在她身上，如果只是偶然的话：但如果他们有这样的机会跌倒，她会肯定那是因为他们可以无法抗拒吸引力。在某种程度上，看到她在那一周（至少大部分时间）表现得多么迟钝和不满，也许会让他感到高兴，因为她缺乏平时的兴奋源泉；但他也感到高兴。她常常后悔“这么快就用完了他”，就像一个孩子，匆忙地吃完了蛋糕，却坐在那里吸吮手指，徒劳地哀叹自己的贪婪。

At length I was called upon, one fine morning, to accompany her in a walk to the village. Ostensibly she went to get some shades of Berlin wool, at a tolerably respectable shop that was chiefly supported by the ladies of the vicinity: really—I trust there is no breach of charity in supposing that she went with the idea of meeting either with the Rector himself, or some other admirer by the way; for as we went along, she kept wondering ‘what Hatfield would do or say, if we met him,’ &c. &c.; as we passed Mr. Green’s park-gates, she ‘wondered whether he was at home—great stupid blockhead’; as Lady Meltham’s carriage passed us, she ‘wondered what Mr. Harry was doing this fine day’; and then began to abuse his elder brother for being ‘such a fool as to get married and go and live in London.’
最后，在一个晴朗的早晨，我被叫去陪她一起散步到村庄。表面上，她去一家还算受人尊敬的商店买了一些颜色的柏林羊毛，这家商店主要由附近的女士们支持：真的——我相信，假设她想去见见那位女士，这并没有违反慈善精神。校长本人，或者顺便说一句，还有其他崇拜者；因为当我们一起走的时候，她一直想知道“如果我们见到哈特菲尔德，他会做什么或说什么”等等。 ＆C。;当我们经过格林先生的公园大门时，她“想知道他是否在家——真是个愚蠢的傻瓜”；当梅尔瑟姆夫人的马车经过我们时，她“想知道哈利先生在这个美好的日子里在做什么”；然后开始咒骂他的哥哥“真是个傻瓜，竟然结婚了，去伦敦生活了”。

‘Why,’ said I, ‘I thought you wanted to live in London yourself.’
“为什么，”我说，“我以为你想自己住在伦敦。”

‘Yes, because it’s so dull here: but then he makes it still duller by taking himself off: and if he were not married I might have him instead of that odious Sir Thomas.’
“是的，因为这里太无聊了：但他脱身之后，一切变得更加无聊：如果他没有结婚，我可能会拥有他，而不是那个可恶的托马斯爵士。”

Then, observing the prints of a horse’s feet on the somewhat miry road, she ‘wondered whether it was a gentleman’s horse,’ and finally concluded it was, for the impressions were too small to have been made by a ‘great clumsy cart-horse’; and then she ‘wondered who the rider could be,’ and whether we should meet him coming back, for she was sure he had only passed that morning; and lastly, when we entered the village and saw only a few of its humble inhabitants moving about, she ‘wondered why the stupid people couldn’t keep in their houses; she was sure she didn’t want to see their ugly faces, and dirty, vulgar clothes—it wasn’t for that she came to Horton!’
然后，她观察了有点泥泞的道路上一匹马的脚印，“想知道这是否是一匹绅士的马”，最后得出结论是，因为这些印记太小了，不可能是一匹“笨拙的拉车的马”留下的。 ';然后她“想知道那个骑手可能是谁”，以及我们是否应该在他回来时见到他，因为她确信他那天早上才经过；最后，当我们进入村庄，只看到一些卑微的居民在走动时，她“想知道为什么愚蠢的人不能呆在自己的房子里；”她确信她不想看到他们丑陋的面孔和肮脏、粗俗的衣服——她来霍顿不是为了这个！

Amid all this, I confess, I wondered, too, in secret, whether we should meet, or catch a glimpse of somebody else; and as we passed his lodgings, I even went so far as to wonder whether he was at the window. On entering the shop, Miss Murray desired me to stand in the doorway while she transacted her business, and tell her if anyone passed. But alas! there was no one visible besides the villagers, except Jane and Susan Green coming down the single street, apparently returning from a walk.
我承认，在这一切之中，我也暗自想知道我们是否应该见面，或者瞥见其他人；当我们经过他的住处时，我什至怀疑他是否在窗边。进入商店后，默里小姐要求我在她处理生意时站在门口，并告诉她是否有人经过。可惜！除了村民们之外，看不到任何人，只有简和苏珊·格林沿着那条街走来，显然是散步回来了。

‘Stupid things!’ muttered she, as she came out after having concluded her bargain. ‘Why couldn’t they have their dolt of a brother with them? even he would be better than nothing.’
“愚蠢的事情！”她在完成讨价还价后出来时嘀咕道。 ‘为什么他们不能带着他们的傻兄弟一起去呢？即使是他也比什么都没有好。

She greeted them, however, with a cheerful smile, and protestations of pleasure at the happy meeting equal to their own. They placed themselves one on each side of her, and all three walked away chatting and laughing as young ladies do when they get together, if they be but on tolerably intimate terms. But I, feeling myself to be one too many, left them to their merriment and lagged behind, as usual on such occasions: I had no relish for walking beside Miss Green or Miss Susan like one deaf and dumb, who could neither speak nor be spoken to.
然而，她却带着愉快的微笑向他们打招呼，并表示对这次愉快的会面感到和他们一样高兴。他们在她的两侧各站了一个人，三个人有说有笑地走开，就像年轻女士们聚在一起时所做的那样，如果他们的关系还算亲密的话。但我，觉得自己太多了，就让他们去享受欢乐，然后像往常一样落在后面：我不喜欢和格林小姐或苏珊小姐一起走，就像一个又聋又哑的人，既不会说话，也不会说话。交谈过。

But this time I was not long alone. It struck me, first, as very odd, that just as I was thinking about Mr. Weston he should come up and accost me; but afterwards, on due reflection, I thought there was nothing odd about it, unless it were the fact of his speaking to me; for on such a morning and so near his own abode, it was natural enough that he should be about; and as for my thinking of him, I had been doing that, with little intermission, ever since we set out on our journey; so there was nothing remarkable in that.
但这一次我并没有孤单太久。首先，非常奇怪的是，正当我想起韦斯顿先生时，他竟然走过来跟我搭话；但后来，经过深思熟虑，我认为这并没有什么奇怪的，除非这是他对我说话的事实。因为在这样一个早晨，又离他自己的住处如此之近，他自然会在附近。至于我对他的思念，自从我们踏上旅程以来，我就一直在想他，几乎没有间断。所以这并没有什么了不起的。

‘You are alone again, Miss Grey,’ said he.
“你又孤身一人了，格雷小姐，”他说。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘What kind of people are those ladies—the Misses Green?’
“那些女士——格林小姐是怎样的人？”

‘I really don’t know.’
“我真的不知道。”

‘That’s strange—when you live so near and see them so often!’
“这很奇怪——你住得这么近，而且经常见到他们！”

‘Well, I suppose they are lively, good-tempered girls; but I imagine you must know them better than I do, yourself, for I never exchanged a word with either of them.’
“嗯，我想她们都是活泼、脾气好的女孩；但我想你一定比我自己更了解他们，因为我从未与他们任何一个说过一句话。

‘Indeed? They don’t strike me as being particularly reserved.’
'的确？我并不认为他们特别保守。

‘Very likely they are not so to people of their own class; but they consider themselves as moving in quite a different sphere from me!’
“对于自己阶级的人来说，很可能不是这样；但他们认为自己处于与我完全不同的领域！”

He made no reply to this: but after a short pause, he said,—‘I suppose it’s these things, Miss Grey, that make you think you could not live without a home?’
他没有回答这个问题：但短暂的停顿后，他说：“我想正是这些事情，格雷小姐，让你觉得没有家你就无法生活？”

‘Not exactly. The fact is I am too socially disposed to be able to live contentedly without a friend; and as the only friends I have, or am likely to have, are at home, if it—or rather, if they were gone—I will not say I could not live—but I would rather not live in such a desolate world.’
'不完全是。事实上，我的社交倾向太强，没有朋友就无法满足地生活。作为我拥有的或可能拥有的唯一朋友，他们都在家里，如果——或者更确切地说，如果他们走了——我不会说我无法生活——但我宁愿不要生活在这样一个荒凉的世界里。 '

‘But why do you say the only friends you are likely to have? Are you so unsociable that you cannot make friends?’
“但是你为什么说你可能拥有的唯一朋友呢？”你是不是性格孤僻，交不到朋友？

‘No, but I never made one yet; and in my present position there is no possibility of doing so, or even of forming a common acquaintance. The fault may be partly in myself, but I hope not altogether.’
“不，但我还没有做过；以我目前的处境，不可能这样做，甚至不可能结识共同的朋友。部分原因可能在于我自己，但我希望不是全部原因。

‘The fault is partly in society, and partly, I should think, in your immediate neighbours: and partly, too, in yourself; for many ladies, in your position, would make themselves be noticed and accounted of. But your pupils should be companions for you in some degree; they cannot be many years younger than yourself.’
“问题部分在于社会，部分在于我想，在于你的近邻：还有一部分在于你自己；对于许多女士来说，处于您的位置，会让自己受到关注并受到重视。但你的学生在某种程度上应该是你的同伴；他们不可能比你年轻很多岁。

‘Oh, yes, they are good company sometimes; but I cannot call them friends, nor would they think of bestowing such a name on me—they have other companions better suited to their tastes.’
“哦，是的，他们有时是很好的伙伴；但我不能称他们为朋友，他们也不会想到给我起这样的名字——他们还有其他更适合他们口味的同伴。

‘Perhaps you are too wise for them. How do you amuse yourself when alone—do you read much?’
‘也许你对他们来说太聪明了。你一个人的时候如何自娱自乐——你读得很多吗？

‘Reading is my favourite occupation, when I have leisure for it and books to read.’
“当我有闲暇和读书时，阅读是我最喜欢的职业。”

From speaking of books in general, he passed to different books in particular, and proceeded by rapid transitions from topic to topic, till several matters, both of taste and opinion, had been discussed considerably within the space of half an hour, but without the embellishment of many observations from himself; he being evidently less bent upon communicating his own thoughts and predilections, than on discovering mine. He had not the tact, or the art, to effect such a purpose by skilfully drawing out my sentiments or ideas through the real or apparent statement of his own, or leading the conversation by imperceptible gradations to such topics as he wished to advert to: but such gentle abruptness, and such singleminded straightforwardness, could not possibly offend me.
他从一般性地谈论书籍，转向具体的书籍，并从一个话题快速转换到另一个话题，直到在半个小时的时间内对一些品味和观点的问题进行了相当多的讨论，但没有任何进展。对他自己的许多观察进行了修饰；显然，他不太热衷于表达自己的想法和偏好，而是致力于发现我的想法和偏好。他没有机智或艺术来实现这样的目的，通过他自己真实或明显的陈述巧妙地引出我的情感或想法，或者以难以察觉的渐变方式引导谈话到他想要提及的话题：但如此温和的唐突，如此专一的直率，不可能冒犯我。

‘And why should he interest himself at all in my moral and intellectual capacities: what is it to him what I think or feel?’ I asked myself. And my heart throbbed in answer to the question.
“他为什么要对我的道德和智力能力感兴趣：我的想法或感受对他来说有什么意义？”我问自己。回答这个问题时我的心在跳动。

But Jane and Susan Green soon reached their home. As they stood parleying at the park-gates, attempting to persuade Miss Murray to come in, I wished Mr. Weston would go, that she might not see him with me when she turned round; but, unfortunately, his business, which was to pay one more visit to poor Mark Wood, led him to pursue the same path as we did, till nearly the close of our journey. When, however, he saw that Rosalie had taken leave of her friends and I was about to join her, he would have left me and passed on at a quicker pace; but, as he civilly lifted his hat in passing her, to my surprise, instead of returning the salute with a stiff, ungracious bow, she accosted him with one of her sweetest smiles, and, walking by his side, began to talk to him with all imaginable cheerfulness and affability; and so we proceeded all three together.
但简和苏珊·格林很快就到了家。当他们站在公园门口谈判，试图说服默里小姐进来时，我希望韦斯顿先生能走，这样她转身时就不会看到他和我在一起了。但不幸的是，他的任务是再次拜访可怜的马克·伍德，导致他走上了与我们相同的道路，直到我们的旅程即将结束。然而，当他看到罗莎莉已经告别了她的朋友们，而我正要加入她的行列时，他就会离开我，以更快的速度离开；但是，当他礼貌地举起帽子经过她身边时，令我惊讶的是，她并没有用僵硬、不礼貌的鞠躬来回礼，而是用她最甜蜜的微笑向他搭话，并走在他身边，开始与他交谈。带着所有可以想象的快乐和和蔼可亲；所以我们三个一起进行。

After a short pause in the conversation, Mr. Weston made some remark addressed particularly to me, as referring to something we had been talking of before; but before I could answer, Miss Murray replied to the observation and enlarged upon it: he rejoined; and, from thence to the close of the interview, she engrossed him entirely to herself. It might be partly owing to my own stupidity, my want of tact and assurance: but I felt myself wronged: I trembled with apprehension; and I listened with envy to her easy, rapid flow of utterance, and saw with anxiety the bright smile with which she looked into his face from time to time: for she was walking a little in advance, for the purpose (as I judged) of being seen as well as heard. If her conversation was light and trivial, it was amusing, and she was never at a loss for something to say, or for suitable words to express it in. There was nothing pert or flippant in her manner now, as when she walked with Mr. Hatfield, there was only a gentle, playful kind of vivacity, which I thought must be peculiarly pleasing to a man of Mr. Weston’s disposition and temperament.
谈话短暂停顿后，韦斯顿先生特别对我说了一些话，指的是我们之前讨论过的事情；但在我回答之前，默里小姐回答了我的观察，并进一步阐述了这一点：他重新加入；从那时起到采访结束，她的注意力完全集中在他身上。这可能部分是由于我自己的愚蠢，我缺乏机智和自信：但我感到自己受到了委屈：我因恐惧而颤抖；我满怀羡慕地听着她轻松、快速的话语，焦虑地看到她时不时地看着他的脸，脸上露出灿烂的笑容：因为她提前走了一点，为了这个目的（据我判断）被看到和被听到。如果她的谈话是轻松琐碎的，那就很有趣，而且她从不不知该说什么，也不不知该用什么合适的词语来表达。她现在的举止中没有任何傲慢或轻率的地方，就像她和先生一起散步时一样。 . 哈特菲尔德，只有一种温和、顽皮的活泼，我想对于像韦斯顿先生这样的性情和气质的人来说，这一定是特别令人愉快的。

When he was gone she began to laugh, and muttered to herself, ‘I thought I could do it!’
当他走后，她开始大笑，自言自语道：“我以为我能做到！”

‘Do what?’ I asked.
“做什么？”我问。

‘Fix that man.’
“解决那个人。”

‘What in the world do you mean?’
“你到底是什么意思？”

‘I mean that he will go home and dream of me. I have shot him through the heart!’
“我的意思是，他回家后会梦见我。我已经射穿了他的心脏！

‘How do you know?’
'你怎么知道？'

‘By many infallible proofs: more especially the look he gave me when he went away. It was not an impudent look—I exonerate him from that—it was a look of reverential, tender adoration. Ha, ha! he’s not quite such a stupid blockhead as I thought him!’
“有许多可靠的证据：尤其是他离开时看我的眼神。这并不是一种无礼的表情——我原谅他——而是一种虔诚、温柔的崇拜。哈哈！他并不像我想象的那么愚蠢！

I made no answer, for my heart was in my throat, or something like it, and I could not trust myself to speak. ‘O God, avert it!’ I cried, internally—‘for his sake, not for mine!’
我没有回答，因为我的心提到了嗓子眼，或者类似的感觉，我无法相信自己能说话。 “上帝啊，请避免它！”我在心里呼喊——“为了他，而不是为了我！”

Miss Murray made several trivial observations as we passed up the park, to which (in spite of my reluctance to let one glimpse of my feelings appear) I could only answer by monosyllables. Whether she intended to torment me, or merely to amuse herself, I could not tell—and did not much care; but I thought of the poor man and his one lamb, and the rich man with his thousand flocks; and I dreaded I knew not what for Mr. Weston, independently of my own blighted hopes.
当我们经过公园时，默里小姐提出了一些琐碎的意见，对此我只能用单音节词来回答（尽管我不愿意透露出我的感情）。她到底是想折磨我，还是只是为了自娱自乐，我无法判断，也不太在意；但我想到了穷人和他的一只羔羊，以及富人和他的一千只羊。我担心我不知道韦斯顿先生会怎样，除了我自己破灭的希望之外。

Right glad was I to get into the house, and find myself alone once more in my own room. My first impulse was to sink into the chair beside the bed; and laying my head on the pillow, to seek relief in a passionate burst of tears: there was an imperative craving for such an indulgence; but, alas! I must restrain and swallow back my feelings still: there was the bell—the odious bell for the schoolroom dinner; and I must go down with a calm face, and smile, and laugh, and talk nonsense—yes, and eat, too, if possible, as if all was right, and I was just returned from a pleasant walk.
我很高兴能进屋，发现自己再次独自一人待在自己的房间里。我的第一个冲动就是瘫坐在床边的椅子上。我把头靠在枕头上，在热泪盈眶中寻求安慰：我迫切地渴望这样的放纵；可惜！我必须克制住自己的情绪，把自己的情绪咽回去：铃声响起了——教室里的晚餐铃声响起了；铃声响了。我必须面带平静地下去，微笑，大笑，胡说八道——是的，如果可能的话，还要吃东西，好像一切都好，我刚刚愉快地散步回来。

CHAPTER XVI—THE SUBSTITUTION
第十六章——替代

Next Sunday was one of the gloomiest of April days—a day of thick, dark clouds, and heavy showers. None of the Murrays were disposed to attend church in the afternoon, excepting Rosalie: she was bent upon going as usual; so she ordered the carriage, and I went with her: nothing loth, of course, for at church I might look without fear of scorn or censure upon a form and face more pleasing to me than the most beautiful of God’s creations; I might listen without disturbance to a voice more charming than the sweetest music to my ears; I might seem to hold communion with that soul in which I felt so deeply interested, and imbibe its purest thoughts and holiest aspirations, with no alloy to such felicity except the secret reproaches of my conscience, which would too often whisper that I was deceiving my own self, and mocking God with the service of a heart more bent upon the creature than the Creator.
下周日是四月里最阴沉的日子之一——乌云密布，还下着倾盆大雨。下午，默里一家人都不愿意去教堂，罗莎莉除外：她一心想像往常一样去；但罗莎莉却不愿意去教堂。于是她吩咐了马车，我和她一起去了：当然，没什么不愿意的，因为在教堂里，我可以不用担心蔑视或责难，看到比上帝最美丽的创造更令我满意的形式和面孔；但我不会害怕。我可以不受干扰地聆听比我耳中最甜美的音乐更迷人的声音；我似乎与那个我深感兴趣的灵魂进行了交流，并吸收了它最纯粹的思想和最神圣的愿望，除了我良心的秘密责备之外，没有任何其他的幸福，良心常常低声说我在欺骗我的心。并用一颗更专注于受造物而不是造物主的心来嘲笑上帝。

Sometimes, such thoughts would give me trouble enough; but sometimes I could quiet them with thinking—it is not the man, it is his goodness that I love. ‘Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are honest and of good report, think on these things.’ We do well to worship God in His works; and I know none of them in which so many of His attributes—so much of His own spirit shines, as in this His faithful servant; whom to know and not to appreciate, were obtuse insensibility in me, who have so little else to occupy my heart.
有时，这样的想法已经给我带来了足够的麻烦。但有时我可以让他们安静下来——我爱的不是这个人，而是他的善良。 “凡是纯洁的事物，凡是可爱的事物，凡是诚实的、有美名的事物，都要思想这些事。”我们在上帝的作为中敬拜他是很好的；我们也应该在上帝的作为中敬拜他。我不知道他们中没有一个人像他忠实的仆人一样，如此多地闪耀着他的属性——他自己的精神。认识他们而不欣赏他们，对我来说是迟钝的麻木不仁，我的心没有什么其他的事情可以占据。

Almost immediately after the conclusion of the service, Miss Murray left the church. We had to stand in the porch, for it was raining, and the carriage was not yet come. I wondered at her coming forth so hastily, for neither young Meltham nor Squire Green was there; but I soon found it was to secure an interview with Mr. Weston as he came out, which he presently did. Having saluted us both, he would have passed on, but she detained him; first with observations upon the disagreeable weather, and then with asking if he would be so kind as to come some time to-morrow to see the granddaughter of the old woman who kept the porter’s lodge, for the girl was ill of a fever, and wished to see him. He promised to do so.
仪式结束后，默里小姐几乎立即离开了教堂。我们不得不站在门廊上，因为正在下雨，马车还没有来。我对她如此匆忙地出现感到惊讶，因为年轻的梅尔瑟姆和格林乡绅都不在那里。但我很快发现这是为了在韦斯顿先生出来时能采访到他，他很快就这么做了。向我们俩行了个礼后，他本想继续走下去，但她却留住了他。首先是观察恶劣的天气，然后询问他是否愿意明天某个时间来看望看门人小屋的老妇人的孙女，因为那个女孩正在发烧。想见他。他答应这样做。

‘And at what time will you be most likely to come, Mr. Weston? The old woman will like to know when to expect you—you know such people think more about having their cottages in order when decent people come to see them than we are apt to suppose.’
“韦斯顿先生，您最有可能什么时候来？老妇人会想知道你什么时候会来——你知道，当正派的人来看望他们时，这些人比我们想象的更关心把他们的小屋收拾得井井有条。

Here was a wonderful instance of consideration from the thoughtless Miss Murray. Mr. Weston named an hour in the morning at which he would endeavour, to be there. By this time the carriage was ready, and the footman was waiting, with an open umbrella, to escort Miss Murray through the churchyard. I was about to follow; but Mr. Weston had an umbrella too, and offered me the benefit of its shelter, for it was raining heavily.
这是一个没有思想的默里小姐考虑周全的绝妙例子。韦斯顿先生指定了早上的一个小时，他会尽力去那里。这时，马车已经准备好了，男仆撑着雨伞，正在等待，护送默里小姐穿过教堂墓地。我正要跟上；但韦斯顿先生也有一把雨伞，并为我提供了庇护所，因为雨下得很大。

‘No, thank you, I don’t mind the rain,’ I said. I always lacked common sense when taken by surprise.
“不，谢谢你，我不介意下雨，”我说。当我感到惊讶时，我总是缺乏常识。

‘But you don’t LIKE it, I suppose?—an umbrella will do you no harm at any rate,’ he replied, with a smile that showed he was not offended; as a man of worse temper or less penetration would have been at such a refusal of his aid. I could not deny the truth of his assertion, and so went with him to the carriage; he even offered me his hand on getting in: an unnecessary piece of civility, but I accepted that too, for fear of giving offence. One glance he gave, one little smile at parting—it was but for a moment; but therein I read, or thought I read, a meaning that kindled in my heart a brighter flame of hope than had ever yet arisen.
“但我想你不喜欢它吧？——无论如何，一把雨伞不会对你造成任何伤害。”他回答道，脸上带着微笑，表明他并没有被冒犯。一个脾气更坏或者洞察力更差的人会拒绝他的帮助。我无法否认他的话的真实性，于是就和他一起上了马车。他甚至向我伸出手示意我进去：这是一种不必要的礼貌，但我也接受了，因为担心冒犯到我。他看了一眼，临别时微微一笑——那只是一瞬间；但我在其中读到，或者认为我读到了一种意义，它在我心中点燃了比以往任何时候都更明亮的希望之火。

‘I would have sent the footman back for you, Miss Grey, if you’d waited a moment—you needn’t have taken Mr. Weston’s umbrella,’ observed Rosalie, with a very unamiable cloud upon her pretty face.
“格雷小姐，如果你等一下的话，我会派男仆回来接你的——你不必拿走韦斯顿先生的雨伞，”罗莎莉说道，她美丽的脸上带着一种非常不友善的阴云。

‘I would have come without an umbrella, but Mr. Weston offered me the benefit of his, and I could not have refused it more than I did without offending him,’ replied I, smiling placidly; for my inward happiness made that amusing, which would have wounded me at another time.
“我本来可以不带雨伞来的，但韦斯顿先生向我提出了他的要求，我不可能拒绝它，否则会冒犯他，”我回答道，平静地微笑着。因为我内心的快乐使这变得有趣，这在其他时候可能会伤害我。

The carriage was now in motion. Miss Murray bent forwards, and looked out of the window as we were passing Mr. Weston. He was pacing homewards along the causeway, and did not turn his head.
马车此时已经行驶起来。当我们经过韦斯顿先生时，默里小姐向前倾身，看着窗外。他沿着堤道踱步回家，没有回头。

‘Stupid ass!’ cried she, throwing herself back again in the seat. ‘You don’t know what you’ve lost by not looking this way!’
“笨蛋！”她叫道，又坐回座位上。 “你不知道不朝这边看你会失去什么！”

‘What has he lost?’
“他失去了什么？”

‘A bow from me, that would have raised him to the seventh heaven!’
“我一鞠躬，他就能升到九重天！”

I made no answer. I saw she was out of humour, and I derived a secret gratification from the fact, not that she was vexed, but that she thought she had reason to be so. It made me think my hopes were not entirely the offspring of my wishes and imagination.
我没有回答。我看到她没有幽默感，我暗自感到欣慰，这并不是因为她生气，而是因为她认为自己有理由如此。这让我觉得我的希望并不完全是我的愿望和想象的产物。

‘I mean to take up Mr. Weston instead of Mr. Hatfield,’ said my companion, after a short pause, resuming something of her usual cheerfulness. ‘The ball at Ashby Park takes place on Tuesday, you know; and mamma thinks it very likely that Sir Thomas will propose to me then: such things are often done in the privacy of the ballroom, when gentlemen are most easily ensnared, and ladies most enchanting. But if I am to be married so soon, I must make the best of the present time: I am determined Hatfield shall not be the only man who shall lay his heart at my feet, and implore me to accept the worthless gift in vain.’
“我的意思是选择韦斯顿先生而不是哈特菲尔德先生。”我的同伴停顿了一下后说道，恢复了她平常的愉快心情。 “你知道，阿什比公园的舞会将于周二举行；妈妈认为托马斯爵士那时很可能会向我求婚：这样的事情通常是在舞厅的私密场所进行的，此时绅士最容易陷入困境，而女士最迷人。但如果我要这么快结婚，我必须充分利用现在的时间：我决心哈特菲尔德不会是唯一一个将心放在我脚下并恳求我徒劳地接受这份毫无价值的礼物的人。 '

‘If you mean Mr. Weston to be one of your victims,’ said I, with affected indifference, ‘you will have to make such overtures yourself that you will find it difficult to draw back when he asks you to fulfil the expectations you have raised.’
“如果你想让韦斯顿先生成为你的受害者之一，”我假装冷漠地说，“你自己就必须做出这样的姿态，以至于当他要求你满足你的期望时，你会发现很难退缩。”上调。'

‘I don’t suppose he will ask me to marry him, nor should I desire it: that would be rather too much presumption! but I intend him to feel my power. He has felt it already, indeed: but he shall ACKNOWLEDGE it too; and what visionary hopes he may have, he must keep to himself, and only amuse me with the result of them—for a time.’
“我不认为他会向我求婚，我也不应该向他求婚：那未免太自以为是了！”但我想让他感受到我的力量。事实上，他已经感受到了这一点：但他也将承认这一点；他可能有什么远见卓识的希望，他必须保守自己，并且只用他们的结果来逗乐我——暂时。

‘Oh! that some kind spirit would whisper those words in his ear,’ I inwardly exclaimed. I was far too indignant to hazard a reply to her observation aloud; and nothing more was said about Mr. Weston that day, by me or in my hearing. But next morning, soon after breakfast, Miss Murray came into the schoolroom, where her sister was employed at her studies, or rather her lessons, for studies they were not, and said, ‘Matilda, I want you to take a walk with me about eleven o’clock.’
'哦！我在心里感叹道，一定有善良的精灵会在他耳边低声说出这些话。我太愤怒了，不敢大声回应她的评论。那天，无论是我本人还是在我的听证会上，都没有再提及韦斯顿先生。但第二天早上，早饭后不久，默里小姐走进教室，她姐姐正在那里学习，或者更确切地说，她的课程，因为它们不是学习，默里小姐说：“玛蒂尔达，我想让你和我一起散步。”大约十一点钟。

‘Oh, I can’t, Rosalie! I have to give orders about my new bridle and saddle-cloth, and speak to the rat-catcher about his dogs: Miss Grey must go with you.’
“哦，我不能，罗莎莉！我必须对我的新缰绳和马鞍布下达命令，并与捕鼠人谈论他的狗：格雷小姐必须和你一起去。

‘No, I want you,’ said Rosalie; and calling her sister to the window, she whispered an explanation in her ear; upon which the latter consented to go.
“不，我想要你，”罗莎莉说。她把姐姐叫到窗前，在她耳边低声解释道。后者同意前往。

I remembered that eleven was the hour at which Mr. Weston proposed to come to the porter’s lodge; and remembering that, I beheld the whole contrivance. Accordingly, at dinner, I was entertained with a long account of how Mr. Weston had overtaken them as they were walking along the road; and how they had had a long walk and talk with him, and really found him quite an agreeable companion; and how he must have been, and evidently was, delighted with them and their amazing condescension, &c. &c.
我记得十一点是韦斯顿先生提议去门房的时间。记住这一点，我看到了整个装置。因此，晚餐时，我对韦斯顿先生如何在他们沿路行走时超越他们的长篇叙述感到高兴。以及他们如何与他一起散步和交谈，并确实发现他是一个非常愉快的伙伴；他一定对他们以及他们令人惊奇的居高临下感到多么高兴，而且显然是多么高兴，等等。 ＆C。

CHAPTER XVII—CONFESSIONS
第十七章——忏悔

As I am in the way of confessions I may as well acknowledge that, about this time, I paid more attention to dress than ever I had done before. This is not saying much—for hitherto I had been a little neglectful in that particular; but now, also, it was no uncommon thing to spend as much as two minutes in the contemplation of my own image in the glass; though I never could derive any consolation from such a study. I could discover no beauty in those marked features, that pale hollow cheek, and ordinary dark brown hair; there might be intellect in the forehead, there might be expression in the dark grey eyes, but what of that?—a low Grecian brow, and large black eyes devoid of sentiment would be esteemed far preferable. It is foolish to wish for beauty. Sensible people never either desire it for themselves or care about it in others. If the mind be but well cultivated, and the heart well disposed, no one ever cares for the exterior. So said the teachers of our childhood; and so say we to the children of the present day. All very judicious and proper, no doubt; but are such assertions supported by actual experience?
既然我正在坦白，我不妨承认，大约在这段时间，我比以往任何时候都更加注重着装。这并不算什么——因为到目前为止，我在这一点上有点疏忽了。但现在，花两分钟沉思镜中自己的形象也并不罕见。尽管我永远无法从这样的研究中得到任何安慰。我在那些明显的特征、苍白凹陷的脸颊和普通的深棕色头发中找不到任何美感。额头上可能有智慧，深灰色的眼睛里可能有表情，但那又怎样呢？——希腊式的低眉和没有感情的黑色大眼睛会被认为更可取。渴望美丽是愚蠢的。明智的人从不渴望自己得到它，也不会关心别人得到它。如果心灵修养良好，心性良好，就没有人会关心外表。我们童年的老师们是这么说的；我们对当今的孩子们也是如此说的。毫无疑问，一切都非常明智和恰当；但这样的说法有实际经验支持吗？

We are naturally disposed to love what gives us pleasure, and what more pleasing than a beautiful face—when we know no harm of the possessor at least? A little girl loves her bird—Why? Because it lives and feels; because it is helpless and harmless? A toad, likewise, lives and feels, and is equally helpless and harmless; but though she would not hurt a toad, she cannot love it like the bird, with its graceful form, soft feathers, and bright, speaking eyes. If a woman is fair and amiable, she is praised for both qualities, but especially the former, by the bulk of mankind: if, on the other hand, she is disagreeable in person and character, her plainness is commonly inveighed against as her greatest crime, because, to common observers, it gives the greatest offence; while, if she is plain and good, provided she is a person of retired manners and secluded life, no one ever knows of her goodness, except her immediate connections. Others, on the contrary, are disposed to form unfavourable opinions of her mind, and disposition, if it be but to excuse themselves for their instinctive dislike of one so unfavoured by nature; and visa versa with her whose angel form conceals a vicious heart, or sheds a false, deceitful charm over defects and foibles that would not be tolerated in another. They that have beauty, let them be thankful for it, and make a good use of it, like any other talent; they that have it not, let them console themselves, and do the best they can without it: certainly, though liable to be over-estimated, it is a gift of God, and not to be despised. Many will feel this who have felt that they could love, and whose hearts tell them that they are worthy to be loved again; while yet they are debarred, by the lack of this or some such seeming trifle, from giving and receiving that happiness they seem almost made to feel and to impart. As well might the humble glowworm despise that power of giving light without which the roving fly might pass her and repass her a thousand times, and never rest beside her: she might hear her winged darling buzzing over and around her; he vainly seeking her, she longing to be found, but with no power to make her presence known, no voice to call him, no wings to follow his flight;—the fly must seek another mate, the worm must live and die alone.
我们自然地倾向于爱给我们带来快乐的东西，还有什么比一张美丽的脸蛋更令人愉悦的呢——至少在我们不知道拥有者会受到伤害的情况下呢？一个小女孩喜欢她的鸟——为什么？因为它有生命、有感觉；因为它是无助和无害的？同样，蟾蜍也有生命和感觉，同样无助和无害。尽管她不会伤害蟾蜍，但她却无法像小鸟那样爱它，爱它优美的体态、柔软的羽毛和明亮会说话的眼睛。如果一个女人美丽而和蔼可亲，那么她的这两种品质都会受到大多数人的称赞，尤其是前者；而另一方面，如果她的人品和性格令人不快，那么她的朴素通常会受到批评，认为她是她最大的优点。犯罪，因为对于普通观察者来说，它带来了最大的冒犯；而如果她是一个朴素善良的人，只要她是一个隐居的人，过着隐居的生活，除了她的直系亲属之外，没有人知道她的善良。相反，其他人则倾向于对她的思想和性情形成不利的看法，哪怕这只是为自己本能地厌恶一个天生不受欢迎的人而找借口；反之亦然，她的天使形象隐藏着一颗邪恶的心，或者对他人无法容忍的缺陷和缺点表现出虚假、欺骗性的魅力。拥有美貌的人，要对它心存感激，并好好利用它，就像任何其他才能一样；没有它的人，让他们安慰自己，没有它就尽力而为：当然，尽管可能被高估，但它是上帝的礼物，不容轻视。 许多人会感受到这一点，因为他们觉得自己可以爱，他们的心告诉他们，他们值得再次被爱；然而，由于缺乏这一点或一些类似的看似琐事，他们被禁止给予和接受他们似乎几乎被迫感受到和传递的幸福。卑微的萤火虫也可能会鄙视这种发光的力量，没有这种力量，流浪的苍蝇可能会从她身边经过一千次，永远不会在她身边休息：她可能会听到她长着翅膀的宝贝在她周围嗡嗡作响；他徒劳地寻找她，她渴望被发现，但没有力量让人们知道她的存在，没有声音呼唤他，没有翅膀跟随他的飞行；苍蝇必须寻找另一个伴侣，蠕虫必须独自生活和死亡。

Such were some of my reflections about this period. I might go on prosing more and more, I might dive much deeper, and disclose other thoughts, propose questions the reader might be puzzled to answer, and deduce arguments that might startle his prejudices, or, perhaps, provoke his ridicule, because he could not comprehend them; but I forbear.
这就是我对这一时期的一些反思。我可能会继续越来越多地写作，我可能会深入研究，揭示其他想法，提出读者可能难以回答的问题，并推断出可能会引起他的偏见的论点，或者也许会引起他的嘲笑，因为他可以不理解他们；但我忍住了。

Now, therefore, let us return to Miss Murray. She accompanied her mamma to the ball on Tuesday; of course splendidly attired, and delighted with her prospects and her charms. As Ashby Park was nearly ten miles distant from Horton Lodge, they had to set out pretty early, and I intended to have spent the evening with Nancy Brown, whom I had not seen for a long time; but my kind pupil took care I should spend it neither there nor anywhere else beyond the limits of the schoolroom, by giving me a piece of music to copy, which kept me closely occupied till bed-time. About eleven next morning, as soon as she had left her room, she came to tell me her news. Sir Thomas had indeed proposed to her at the ball; an event which reflected great credit on her mamma’s sagacity, if not upon her skill in contrivance. I rather incline to the belief that she had first laid her plans, and then predicted their success. The offer had been accepted, of course, and the bridegroom elect was coming that day to settle matters with Mr. Murray.
现在，让我们回到默里小姐身上。周二她陪妈妈去参加舞会。当然，她衣着华丽，对她的前景和魅力感到高兴。由于阿什比公园距离霍顿旅馆有近十英里，所以他们必须很早就出发，而我打算和我已经很长时间没见面的南希·布朗一起度过一个晚上；但我还是想和南希·布朗一起度过一个晚上。但我好心的学生照顾我，不让我在那里或教室以外的任何地方度过，他给了我一首音乐让我抄，这让我一直忙到睡觉。第二天早上十一点左右，她一离开房间，就来告诉我她的消息。托马斯爵士确实在舞会上向她求婚了。这件事即使不归功于她妈妈的设计技巧，也反映出她妈妈的睿智。我更倾向于相信她首先制定了计划，然后预测了计划的成功。当然，这个提议已被接受，当选新郎当天也会来与默里先生解决问题。

Rosalie was pleased with the thoughts of becoming mistress of Ashby Park; she was elated with the prospect of the bridal ceremony and its attendant splendour and eclat, the honeymoon spent abroad, and the subsequent gaieties she expected to enjoy in London and elsewhere; she appeared pretty well pleased too, for the time being, with Sir Thomas himself, because she had so lately seen him, danced with him, and been flattered by him; but, after all, she seemed to shrink from the idea of being so soon united: she wished the ceremony to be delayed some months, at least; and I wished it too. It seemed a horrible thing to hurry on the inauspicious match, and not to give the poor creature time to think and reason on the irrevocable step she was about to take. I made no pretension to ‘a mother’s watchful, anxious care,’ but I was amazed and horrified at Mrs. Murray’s heartlessness, or want of thought for the real good of her child; and by my unheeded warnings and exhortations, I vainly strove to remedy the evil. Miss Murray only laughed at what I said; and I soon found that her reluctance to an immediate union arose chiefly from a desire to do what execution she could among the young gentlemen of her acquaintance, before she was incapacitated from further mischief of the kind. It was for this cause that, before confiding to me the secret of her engagement, she had extracted a promise that I would not mention a word on the subject to any one. And when I saw this, and when I beheld her plunge more recklessly than ever into the depths of heartless coquetry, I had no more pity for her. ‘Come what will,’ I thought, ‘she deserves it. Sir Thomas cannot be too bad for her; and the sooner she is incapacitated from deceiving and injuring others the better.’
罗莎莉对成为阿什比公园的女主人的想法感到很高兴。她对婚礼的前景及其随之而来的辉煌和辉煌、在国外度过的蜜月以及随后在伦敦和其他地方享受的欢乐感到高兴；目前，她似乎对托马斯爵士本人也很满意，因为她最近才见到他，与他一起跳舞，并受到他的奉承。但毕竟，她似乎不愿意这么快就团结起来：她希望仪式至少推迟几个月；我也希望如此。匆忙进行这场不吉利的比赛，而不给这个可怜的生物时间思考和推理她即将采取的不可逆转的步骤，这似乎是一件可怕的事情。我并没有假装“母亲的警惕、焦虑的照顾”，但我对默里夫人的无情或缺乏为她孩子的真正利益着想感到惊讶和恐惧；我对警告和劝告置之不理，徒劳地试图纠正这种邪恶。默里小姐只是嘲笑我的话。我很快发现，她不愿意立即结合，主要是因为她希望在她因进一步的恶作剧而失去能力之前，在她所认识的年轻绅士中尽其所能。正是因为这个原因，在向我透露她订婚的秘密之前，她保证我不会向任何人提及这件事。当我看到这一点，当我看到她比以往更加鲁莽地陷入无情卖弄的深渊时，我不再怜悯她。 “不管怎样，”我想，“她活该。”托马斯爵士对她来说不会太坏。她越早失去欺骗和伤害他人的能力就越好。

The wedding was fixed for the first of June. Between that and the critical ball was little more than six weeks; but, with Rosalie’s accomplished skill and resolute exertion, much might be done, even within that period; especially as Sir Thomas spent most of the interim in London; whither he went up, it was said, to settle affairs with his lawyer, and make other preparations for the approaching nuptials. He endeavoured to supply the want of his presence by a pretty constant fire of billets-doux; but these did not attract the neighbours’ attention, and open their eyes, as personal visits would have done; and old Lady Ashby’s haughty, sour spirit of reserve withheld her from spreading the news, while her indifferent health prevented her coming to visit her future daughter-in-law; so that, altogether, this affair was kept far closer than such things usually are.
婚礼定在六月一日。从那时到关键的球只有六周多一点的时间。但是，凭借罗莎莉娴熟的技巧和坚决的努力，即使在那个时期，也可以做很多事情。尤其是托马斯爵士在此期间大部分时间都在伦敦度过；据说，他去那里是为了与律师解决事务，并为即将举行的婚礼做其他准备。他竭力用持续不断的柴火来满足他在场的需要。但这些并没有像亲自拜访那样引起邻居的注意，也没有让他们大开眼界。阿什比老太太傲慢、刻薄、矜持，她没有把这个消息传播出去，而她的健康状况不佳，也让她无法去看望她未来的儿媳妇。因此，总的来说，这件事比通常的事情要密切得多。

Rosalie would sometimes show her lover’s epistles to me, to convince me what a kind, devoted husband he would make. She showed me the letters of another individual, too, the unfortunate Mr. Green, who had not the courage, or, as she expressed it, the ‘spunk,’ to plead his cause in person, but whom one denial would not satisfy: he must write again and again. He would not have done so if he could have seen the grimaces his fair idol made over his moving appeals to her feelings, and heard her scornful laughter, and the opprobrious epithets she heaped upon him for his perseverance.
罗莎莉有时会给我看她情人的书信，让我相信他会成为一个多么善良、忠诚的丈夫。她还给我看了另一个人的信，即不幸的格林先生，他没有勇气，或者用她的话说，没有“勇气”亲自为自己的事业辩护，但一次否认也无法让他满意：他必须一遍又一遍地写。如果他能看到他那美丽的偶像在他动人的诉求她的感情时所做出的鬼脸，听到她轻蔑的笑声，以及她对他的坚持不懈的辱骂，他就不会这样做。

‘Why don’t you tell him, at once, that you are engaged?’ I asked.
“你为什么不立即告诉他你已经订婚了？”我问。

‘Oh, I don’t want him to know that,’ replied she. ‘If he knew it, his sisters and everybody would know it, and then there would be an end of my—ahem! And, besides, if I told him that, he would think my engagement was the only obstacle, and that I would have him if I were free; which I could not bear that any man should think, and he, of all others, at least. Besides, I don’t care for his letters,’ she added, contemptuously; ‘he may write as often as he pleases, and look as great a calf as he likes when I meet him; it only amuses me.’
“哦，我不想让他知道这一点，”她回答道。 “如果他知道了，他的姐妹们和每个人都会知道，然后我的——咳咳！而且，此外，如果我告诉他这一点，他会认为我的订婚是唯一的障碍，如果我有空，我就会拥有他。我无法忍受任何人（至少他）想到这一点。而且，我不关心他的信。”她轻蔑地补充道。 “他可以随心所欲地写作，当我见到他时，他可以像他喜欢的样子一样伟大；”这只是让我觉得有趣。

Meantime, young Meltham was pretty frequent in his visits to the house or transits past it; and, judging by Matilda’s execrations and reproaches, her sister paid more attention to him than civility required; in other words, she carried on as animated a flirtation as the presence of her parents would admit. She made some attempts to bring Mr. Hatfield once more to her feet; but finding them unsuccessful, she repaid his haughty indifference with still loftier scorn, and spoke of him with as much disdain and detestation as she had formerly done of his curate. But, amid all this, she never for a moment lost sight of Mr. Weston. She embraced every opportunity of meeting him, tried every art to fascinate him, and pursued him with as much perseverance as if she really loved him and no other, and the happiness of her life depended upon eliciting a return of affection. Such conduct was completely beyond my comprehension. Had I seen it depicted in a novel, I should have thought it unnatural; had I heard it described by others, I should have deemed it a mistake or an exaggeration; but when I saw it with my own eyes, and suffered from it too, I could only conclude that excessive vanity, like drunkenness, hardens the heart, enslaves the faculties, and perverts the feelings; and that dogs are not the only creatures which, when gorged to the throat, will yet gloat over what they cannot devour, and grudge the smallest morsel to a starving brother.
与此同时，年轻的梅尔瑟姆非常频繁地拜访这座房子或经过它。从玛蒂尔达的咒骂和责备来看，她姐姐对他的关注超出了礼貌的要求。换句话说，她在父母在场的情况下，一直在进行着热烈的调情。她做了一些尝试，试图让哈特菲尔德先生再次站起来。但发现他们没有成功，她以更加崇高的蔑视来回报他傲慢的冷漠，并且像以前对他的牧师一样轻蔑和厌恶地谈论他。但是，在这一切之中，她一刻也没有忘记韦斯顿先生。她拥抱每一个遇见他的机会，想尽一切办法让他着迷，用尽全力追求他，就好像她真的爱他，不爱其他人，而她一生的幸福取决于是否能得到爱的回报。这样的行为完全超出了我的理解范围。如果我在小说中看到它，我会认为它不自然；如果我听别人描述，我会认为这是错误或夸大的；但当我亲眼目睹并亲身经历后，我只能得出这样的结论：过度的虚荣心就像醉酒一样，使人的心变得刚硬，奴役能力，败坏感情。狗并不是唯一一种在被塞到喉咙时仍会为自己无法吞下的东西幸灾乐祸，并舍不得给饥饿的兄弟吃哪怕一小口食物的生物。

She now became extremely beneficent to the poor cottagers. Her acquaintance among them was more widely extended, her visits to their humble dwellings were more frequent and excursive than they had ever been before. Hereby, she earned among them the reputation of a condescending and very charitable young lady; and their encomiums were sure to be repeated to Mr. Weston: whom also she had thus a daily chance of meeting in one or other of their abodes, or in her transits to and fro; and often, likewise, she could gather, through their gossip, to what places he was likely to go at such and such a time, whether to baptize a child, or to visit the aged, the sick, the sad, or the dying; and most skilfully she laid her plans accordingly. In these excursions she would sometimes go with her sister—whom, by some means, she had persuaded or bribed to enter into her schemes—sometimes alone, never, now, with me; so that I was debarred the pleasure of seeing Mr. Weston, or hearing his voice even in conversation with another: which would certainly have been a very great pleasure, however hurtful or however fraught with pain. I could not even see him at church: for Miss Murray, under some trivial pretext, chose to take possession of that corner in the family pew which had been mine ever since I came; and, unless I had the presumption to station myself between Mr. and Mrs. Murray, I must sit with my back to the pulpit, which I accordingly did.
她现在对贫穷的佃农变得极其仁慈。她对他们的认识更加广泛，她对他们简陋住所的拜访比以往任何时候都更加频繁和频繁。由此，她在他们中间赢得了居高临下、非常仁慈的年轻女士的声誉。他们的赞美肯定会向韦斯顿先生重复：因此，她每天都有机会在他们的一处或另一处住所，或在她往返的途中见到韦斯顿先生。同样，她常常可以通过他们的八卦得知他在某个时间可能会去哪些地方，无论是给孩子施洗，还是探望老人、病人、悲伤的人或垂死的人；她非常巧妙地制定了相应的计划。在这些短途旅行中，她有时会和她的妹妹一起去——她通过某种方式说服或贿赂了她的妹妹，让她参与她的计划——有时是独自一人，现在从来没有和我一起；因此，我无法享受见到韦斯顿先生的乐趣，甚至在与他人交谈时听到他的声音：这肯定是一种非常大的乐趣，无论多么伤害或充满痛苦。我什至无法在教堂见到他：因为默里小姐以某种微不足道的借口，选择占据家庭长椅上的那个角落，自从我来以来，这个角落就一直是我的；所以，我无法在教堂看到他。而且，除非我假定自己站在默里先生和夫人之间，否则我必须背对讲坛而坐，因此我就这么做了。

Now, also, I never walked home with my pupils: they said their mamma thought it did not look well to see three people out of the family walking, and only two going in the carriage; and, as they greatly preferred walking in fine weather, I should be honoured by going with the seniors. ‘And besides,’ said they, ‘you can’t walk as fast as we do; you know you’re always lagging behind.’ I knew these were false excuses, but I made no objections, and never contradicted such assertions, well knowing the motives which dictated them. And in the afternoons, during those six memorable weeks, I never went to church at all. If I had a cold, or any slight indisposition, they took advantage of that to make me stay at home; and often they would tell me they were not going again that day, themselves, and then pretend to change their minds, and set off without telling me: so managing their departure that I never discovered the change of purpose till too late. Upon their return home, on one of these occasions, they entertained me with an animated account of a conversation they had had with Mr. Weston as they came along. ‘And he asked if you were ill, Miss Grey,’ said Matilda; ‘but we told him you were quite well, only you didn’t want to come to church—so he’ll think you’re turned wicked.’
现在，我也不再和我的学生们一起走回家了：他们说，他们的妈妈认为看到家里三个人走路，而只有两个人坐马车回家，这看起来不太好。而且，由于他们非常喜欢在晴朗的天气里散步，我应该很荣幸能和老年人一起去。 “而且，”他们说，“你们走得不像我们那么快；你知道你总是落后。”我知道这些都是虚假的借口，但我没有提出异议，也从不反驳这些说法，因为我很清楚这些说法的动机。在下午，在那令人难忘的六个星期里，我根本没有去教堂。如果我感冒了，或者有任何轻微的不适，他们就会利用这一点让我呆在家里；他们常常告诉我，他们那天不会再去了，然后假装改变主意，在没有告诉我的情况下出发了：如此管理他们的离开，以至于我直到为时已晚才发现目的的改变。有一次，他们回到家后，用生动的方式向我讲述了他们来时与韦斯顿先生的一次谈话，以此来娱乐我。 “他还问你是否病了，格雷小姐，”玛蒂尔达说。 “但我们告诉他你很好，只是你不想去教堂——所以他会认为你变得邪恶了。”

All chance meetings on week-days were likewise carefully prevented; for, lest I should go to see poor Nancy Brown or any other person, Miss Murray took good care to provide sufficient employment for all my leisure hours. There was always some drawing to finish, some music to copy, or some work to do, sufficient to incapacitate me from indulging in anything beyond a short walk about the grounds, however she or her sister might be occupied.
所有工作日的偶遇也同样被小心翼翼地阻止。因为，为了免得我去见可怜的南希·布朗或任何其他人，默里小姐小心翼翼地为我所有的闲暇时间提供了足够的工作。总是有一些画要完成，一些音乐要复制，或者一些工作要做，足以使我无法沉迷于除了在场地上散步之外的任何事情，无论她或她的妹妹可能很忙。

One morning, having sought and waylaid Mr. Weston, they returned in high glee to give me an account of their interview. ‘And he asked after you again,’ said Matilda, in spite of her sister’s silent but imperative intimation that she should hold her tongue. ‘He wondered why you were never with us, and thought you must have delicate health, as you came out so seldom.’
一天早上，他们找到并伏击了韦斯顿先生后，兴高采烈地回来向我讲述了他们的采访。 “他又来找你了，”玛蒂尔达说道，尽管她姐姐默默地但命令性地暗示她应该闭嘴。 “他想知道你为什么从来不和我们在一起，并认为你的健康状况一定很差，因为你很少出来。”

‘He didn’t Matilda—what nonsense you’re talking!’
“他没有玛蒂尔达——你胡说八道！”

‘Oh, Rosalie, what a lie! He did, you know; and you said—Don’t, Rosalie—hang it!—I won’t be pinched so! And, Miss Grey, Rosalie told him you were quite well, but you were always so buried in your books that you had no pleasure in anything else.’
“哦，罗莎莉，真是个谎言！你知道，他做到了；你说——别这样，罗莎莉——把它挂起来！——这样我就不会被掐了！而且，格雷小姐，罗莎莉告诉他，你很好，但你总是埋头于书本中，对其他事情没有兴趣。”

‘What an idea he must have of me!’ I thought.
“他一定对我有什么想法！”我想。

‘And,’ I asked, ‘does old Nancy ever inquire about me?’
“那么，”我问道，“老南希有没有打听过我的情况？”

‘Yes; and we tell her you are so fond of reading and drawing that you can do nothing else.’
'是的;我们告诉她你非常喜欢阅读和画画，所以你无能为力。

‘That is not the case though; if you had told her I was so busy I could not come to see her, it would have been nearer the truth.’
“但事实并非如此；如果你告诉她我很忙而不能来看她，那就更接近事实了。

‘I don’t think it would,’ replied Miss Murray, suddenly kindling up; ‘I’m sure you have plenty of time to yourself now, when you have so little teaching to do.’
“我认为不会，”默里小姐回答道，她的情绪突然激动起来。 “我确信你现在有很多独处的时间，因为你几乎没有什么教学可做。”

It was no use beginning to dispute with such indulged, unreasoning creatures: so I held my peace. I was accustomed, now, to keeping silence when things distasteful to my ear were uttered; and now, too, I was used to wearing a placid smiling countenance when my heart was bitter within me. Only those who have felt the like can imagine my feelings, as I sat with an assumption of smiling indifference, listening to the accounts of those meetings and interviews with Mr. Weston, which they seemed to find such pleasure in describing to me; and hearing things asserted of him which, from the character of the man, I knew to be exaggerations and perversions of the truth, if not entirely false—things derogatory to him, and flattering to them—especially to Miss Murray—which I burned to contradict, or, at least, to show my doubts about, but dared not; lest, in expressing my disbelief, I should display my interest too. Other things I heard, which I felt or feared were indeed too true: but I must still conceal my anxiety respecting him, my indignation against them, beneath a careless aspect; others, again, mere hints of something said or done, which I longed to hear more of, but could not venture to inquire. So passed the weary time. I could not even comfort myself with saying, ‘She will soon be married; and then there may be hope.’
与这些放纵的、不讲道理的生物争论是没有用的：所以我保持沉默。现在我已经习惯了，当有人说出我不喜欢的事情时，我会保持沉默。现在，我也习惯了，当我内心苦涩时，脸上仍挂着平静的微笑。只有那些有过类似感受的人才能想象我的感受，当我带着微笑冷漠地坐着，听着韦斯顿先生的那些会议和采访的叙述时，他们似乎很高兴向我描述这些；听到他断言的事情，从这个人的性格来看，我知道这些事情即使不是完全错误，也是对事实的夸大和曲解——这些事情对他来说是贬义的，对他们来说是奉承的——尤其是对默里小姐——我对此感到愤怒反驳，或者至少表现出我的怀疑，但又不敢；以免在表达我的怀疑时，我也表现出我的兴趣。我听到的其他事情，我感到或担心的确实太真实了：但我仍然必须在漫不经心的外表下隐藏我对他的焦虑，对他们的愤慨；其他的，同样，只是一些说过或做过的事情的暗示，我渴望听到更多，但不敢冒险询问。就这样度过了疲惫的时光。我什至无法安慰自己说：“她很快就要结婚了；”然后可能会有希望。

Soon after her marriage the holidays would come; and when I returned from home, most likely, Mr. Weston would be gone, for I was told that he and the Rector could not agree (the Rector’s fault, of course), and he was about to remove to another place.
她结婚后不久，假期就到了。当我从家里回来时，韦斯顿先生很可能已经走了，因为我被告知他和校长无法达成一致（当然是校长的错），他正准备搬到另一个地方。

No—besides my hope in God, my only consolation was in thinking that, though he know it not, I was more worthy of his love than Rosalie Murray, charming and engaging as she was; for I could appreciate his excellence, which she could not: I would devote my life to the promotion of his happiness; she would destroy his happiness for the momentary gratification of her own vanity. ‘Oh, if he could but know the difference!’ I would earnestly exclaim. ‘But no! I would not have him see my heart: yet, if he could but know her hollowness, her worthless, heartless frivolity, he would then be safe, and I should be—ALMOST happy, though I might never see him more!’
不——除了我对上帝的希望之外，我唯一的安慰是想到，尽管他不知道，我比罗莎莉·默里更值得他爱，尽管她迷人而迷人；但我比罗莎莉·默里更值得他的爱。因为我可以欣赏他的优秀，而她却不能：我愿意奉献我的一生来促进他的幸福；她会为了自己一时的虚荣心的满足而毁掉他的幸福。 “哦，如果他能知道其中的区别就好了！”我会热切地感叹道。 '但不是！我不想让他看到我的心：然而，如果他能知道她的空虚，她的无价值、无情的轻浮，那么他就会安全，而我应该——几乎幸福，尽管我可能再也见不到他了！

I fear, by this time, the reader is well nigh disgusted with the folly and weakness I have so freely laid before him. I never disclosed it then, and would not have done so had my own sister or my mother been with me in the house. I was a close and resolute dissembler—in this one case at least. My prayers, my tears, my wishes, fears, and lamentations, were witnessed by myself and heaven alone.
我担心，到了这个时候，读者已经对我如此随意地摆在他面前的愚蠢和弱点感到厌恶了。那时我从未透露过这件事，如果我自己的姐姐或我母亲和我一起在家里，我也不会这样做。我是一个严密而坚决的谎言家——至少在这件事上是这样。我的祈祷、我的眼泪、我的愿望、恐惧和哀悼，只有我自己和天堂见证了。

When we are harassed by sorrows or anxieties, or long oppressed by any powerful feelings which we must keep to ourselves, for which we can obtain and seek no sympathy from any living creature, and which yet we cannot, or will not wholly crush, we often naturally seek relief in poetry—and often find it, too—whether in the effusions of others, which seem to harmonize with our existing case, or in our own attempts to give utterance to those thoughts and feelings in strains less musical, perchance, but more appropriate, and therefore more penetrating and sympathetic, and, for the time, more soothing, or more powerful to rouse and to unburden the oppressed and swollen heart. Before this time, at Wellwood House and here, when suffering from home-sick melancholy, I had sought relief twice or thrice at this secret source of consolation; and now I flew to it again, with greater avidity than ever, because I seemed to need it more. I still preserve those relics of past sufferings and experience, like pillars of witness set up in travelling through the vale of life, to mark particular occurrences. The footsteps are obliterated now; the face of the country may be changed; but the pillar is still there, to remind me how all things were when it was reared. Lest the reader should be curious to see any of these effusions, I will favour him with one short specimen: cold and languid as the lines may seem, it was almost a passion of grief to which they owed their being:-
当我们受到悲伤或焦虑的困扰，或长期被任何强烈的感情所压抑时，我们必须将这种感情保留在自己身上，我们无法获得也不寻求任何生物的同情，但我们不能或不会完全粉碎这种感情，我们经常自然地在诗歌中寻求解脱——也经常找到它——无论是在其他人的倾诉中，这似乎与我们现有的情况相协调，还是在我们自己试图以不那么音乐化的曲调表达那些思想和感情时，也许，但更合适，因此更具有洞察力和同情心，并且在当时更舒缓，或更有力地唤醒和减轻受压迫和肿胀的心。在此之前，在韦尔伍德之家和这里，当我遭受思乡忧郁之苦时，我曾两次或三次从这个秘密的安慰源泉中寻求解脱。现在我再次飞向它，比以往任何时候都更加渴望，因为我似乎更需要它。我仍然保留着那些过去的苦难和经历的遗迹，就像在生命之谷旅行时竖起的见证柱，以标记特定的事件。现在脚步声已经消失了；国家的面貌可能会改变；但那根柱子仍然在那里，提醒我它被立起来时一切都是怎样的。为了避免读者好奇地看到这些流露，我将向他提供一个简短的样本：尽管这些诗行看起来冷漠而慵懒，但它们几乎是一种悲伤的激情：-

Oh, they have robbed me of the hope
哦，他们夺走了我的希望

My spirit held so dear;
我的精神如此珍贵；

They will not let me hear that voice
他们不会让我听到那个声音

My soul delights to hear.
我的灵魂很高兴听到。


They will not let me see that face
他们不会让我看到那张脸

I so delight to see;
我很高兴看到；

And they have taken all thy smiles,
他们夺走了你所有的微笑，

And all thy love from me.
以及你所有的爱。


Well, let them seize on all they can; -
好吧，让他们抓住他们能抓住的一切吧； -

One treasure still is mine, -
一件宝藏仍然是我的，-

A heart that loves to think on thee,
一颗爱思念你的心，

And feels the worth of thine.
并感受到你的价值。

Yes, at least, they could not deprive me of that: I could think of him day and night; and I could feel that he was worthy to be thought of. Nobody knew him as I did; nobody could appreciate him as I did; nobody could love him as I—could, if I might: but there was the evil. What business had I to think so much of one that never thought of me? Was it not foolish? was it not wrong? Yet, if I found such deep delight in thinking of him, and if I kept those thoughts to myself, and troubled no one else with them, where was the harm of it? I would ask myself. And such reasoning prevented me from making any sufficient effort to shake off my fetters.
是的，至少，他们不能剥夺我这一点：我可以日日夜夜地想着他；我能感觉到他是值得被想到的。没有人像我一样了解他；没有人能像我一样欣赏他；没有人能像我一样爱他——如果我可以的话：但邪恶还是存在的。我何必对一个从来没有想到过我的人这么想呢？这不是很愚蠢吗？难道没有错吗？然而，如果我在想起他时感到如此深深的快乐，并且如果我把这些想法留给自己，不打扰别人，那又有什么害处呢？我会问自己。这种推理使我无法做出足够的努力来摆脱束缚。

But, if those thoughts brought delight, it was a painful, troubled pleasure, too near akin to anguish; and one that did me more injury than I was aware of. It was an indulgence that a person of more wisdom or more experience would doubtless have denied herself. And yet, how dreary to turn my eyes from the contemplation of that bright object and force them to dwell on the dull, grey, desolate prospect around: the joyless, hopeless, solitary path that lay before me. It was wrong to be so joyless, so desponding; I should have made God my friend, and to do His will the pleasure and the business of my life; but faith was weak, and passion was too strong.
但是，如果这些想法带来快乐，那也是一种痛苦、困扰的快乐，太接近痛苦了；这对我造成的伤害比我意识到的还要严重。一个有更多智慧或更有经验的人无疑会拒绝这种放纵。然而，将我的目光从对那个明亮物体的沉思上移开，迫使它们停留在周围暗淡、灰色、荒凉的前景上是多么沉闷：摆在我面前的那条毫无乐趣、无望、孤独的道路。如此不快乐、如此沮丧是不对的；我应该把上帝当作我的朋友，并以遵行他的旨意为我一生的乐趣和事业。但信念太弱，激情太强烈。

In this time of trouble I had two other causes of affliction. The first may seem a trifle, but it cost me many a tear: Snap, my little dumb, rough-visaged, but bright-eyed, warm-hearted companion, the only thing I had to love me, was taken away, and delivered over to the tender mercies of the village rat-catcher, a man notorious for his brutal treatment of his canine slaves. The other was serious enough; my letters from home gave intimation that my father’s health was worse. No boding fears were expressed, but I was grown timid and despondent, and could not help fearing that some dreadful calamity awaited us there. I seemed to see the black clouds gathering round my native hills, and to hear the angry muttering of a storm that was about to burst, and desolate our hearth.
在这段困难时期，我还有另外两个痛苦的原因。第一个看似微不足道，但却让我流了很多泪：啪，我的小笨蛋，面容粗糙，但眼睛明亮，热心肠的伴侣，我唯一必须爱我的东西，被带走了，并被交付了一切都交给了村里捕鼠人的温柔怜悯，这个捕鼠人因残酷对待他的狗奴隶而臭名昭著。另一个则足够严肃了。我的家信表明我父亲的健康状况更糟了。没有表现出任何不祥的恐惧，但我变得胆怯和沮丧，不禁担心那里有什么可怕的灾难在等待着我们。我似乎看到黑云聚集在我故乡的山丘周围，听到暴风雨即将爆发的愤怒低语，我们的壁炉将变得荒凉。

CHAPTER XVIII—MIRTH AND MOURNING
第十八章欢笑与哀悼

The 1st of June arrived at last: and Rosalie Murray was transmuted into Lady Ashby. Most splendidly beautiful she looked in her bridal costume. Upon her return from church, after the ceremony, she came flying into the schoolroom, flushed with excitement, and laughing, half in mirth, and half in reckless desperation, as it seemed to me.
6 月 1 日终于到来：罗莎莉·默里变成了阿什比夫人。她穿着新娘服装，看起来非常美丽。仪式结束后，她从教堂回来，飞快地走进教室，兴奋得满脸通红，大笑起来，一半是喜悦，一半是鲁莽的绝望，在我看来。

‘Now, Miss Grey, I’m Lady Ashby!’ she exclaimed. ‘It’s done, my fate is sealed: there’s no drawing back now. I’m come to receive your congratulations and bid you good-by; and then I’m off for Paris, Rome, Naples, Switzerland, London—oh, dear! what a deal I shall see and hear before I come back again. But don’t forget me: I shan’t forget you, though I’ve been a naughty girl. Come, why don’t you congratulate me?’
“现在，格雷小姐，我是阿什比夫人！”她喊道。 “事情已经完成了，我的命运已成定局：现在没有退路了。”我是来接受你们的祝贺并向你们告别的；然后我就出发去巴黎、罗马、那不勒斯、瑞士、伦敦——哦，天哪！在我再次回来之前，我将看到和听到多么好的交易。但不要忘记我：我不会忘记你，尽管我一直是个顽皮的女孩。来吧，你为什么不祝贺我呢？

‘I cannot congratulate you,’ I replied, ‘till I know whether this change is really for the better: but I sincerely hope it is; and I wish you true happiness and the best of blessings.’
“我无法祝贺你，”我回答道，“直到我知道这种改变是否真的变得更好：但我真诚地希望如此；我祝愿你真正幸福并得到最好的祝福。

‘Well, good-by, the carriage is waiting, and they’re calling me.’
“好吧，再见，马车已经在等了，他们在叫我。”

She gave me a hasty kiss, and was hurrying away; but, suddenly returning, embraced me with more affection than I thought her capable of evincing, and departed with tears in her eyes. Poor girl! I really loved her then; and forgave her from my heart all the injury she had done me—and others also: she had not half known it, I was sure; and I prayed God to pardon her too.
她匆匆地吻了我一下，然后就匆匆离去。但她突然回来了，她用比我想象的更多的感情拥抱了我，然后眼里含着泪水离开了。可怜的姑娘！那时我真的很爱她；并从心里原谅了她对我以及其他人造成的所有伤害：我确信她还没有意识到这一点；我也祈求上帝宽恕她。

During the remainder of that day of festal sadness, I was left to my own devices. Being too much unhinged for any steady occupation, I wandered about with a book in my hand for several hours, more thinking than reading, for I had many things to think about. In the evening, I made use of my liberty to go and see my old friend Nancy once again; to apologize for my long absence (which must have seemed so neglectful and unkind) by telling her how busy I had been; and to talk, or read, or work for her, whichever might be most acceptable, and also, of course, to tell her the news of this important day: and perhaps to obtain a little information from her in return, respecting Mr. Weston’s expected departure. But of this she seemed to know nothing, and I hoped, as she did, that it was all a false report. She was very glad to see me; but, happily, her eyes were now so nearly well that she was almost independent of my services. She was deeply interested in the wedding; but while I amused her with the details of the festive day, the splendours of the bridal party and of the bride herself, she often sighed and shook her head, and wished good might come of it; she seemed, like me, to regard it rather as a theme for sorrow than rejoicing. I sat a long time talking to her about that and other things—but no one came.
在那天剩下的悲伤的日子里，我只能独自一人。由于我太精神错乱，无法从事任何稳定的工作，我手里拿着一本书闲逛了几个小时，更多的是思考而不是阅读，因为我有很多事情要思考。晚上，我趁着空闲再次去看望我的老朋友南希。告诉她我有多忙，为我长时间缺席而道歉（这一定显得我很疏忽和不友善）；和她交谈、阅读或为她工作，无论哪种方式最容易接受，当然，还要告诉她这个重要日子的消息：也许还可以从她那里得到一些信息作为回报，尊重韦斯顿先生的意见。预计出发。但对此她似乎一无所知，我也像她一样希望这一切都是虚假报道。她很高兴见到我；但令人高兴的是，她的眼睛现在几乎康复了，几乎不需要我的照顾了。她对婚礼很感兴趣；但当我用节日的细节、新娘队伍和新娘本人的辉煌来逗她开心时，她常常叹息、摇头，并希望事情能有好结果；她似乎和我一样，将其视为悲伤的主题，而不是欢乐的主题。我坐了很长时间和她谈论这件事和其他事情——但没有人来。

Shall I confess that I sometimes looked towards the door with a half-expectant wish to see it open and give entrance to Mr. Weston, as had happened once before? and that, returning through the lanes and fields, I often paused to look round me, and walked more slowly than was at all necessary—for, though a fine evening, it was not a hot one—and, finally, felt a sense of emptiness and disappointment at having reached the house without meeting or even catching a distant glimpse of any one, except a few labourers returning from their work?
我是否应该承认，有时我会带着半期待的心情望着门，希望看到门打开，让韦斯顿先生进来，就像以前发生过的那样？穿过小巷和田野返回时，我常常停下来环顾四周，走得比实际需要的速度要慢——因为，虽然是一个美好的夜晚，但并不炎热——最后，我感到一种到达家后，除了几个下班回来的工人之外，没有见到任何人，甚至没有远远地瞥见任何人，这是否让你感到空虚和失望？

Sunday, however, was approaching: I should see him then: for now that Miss Murray was gone, I could have my old corner again. I should see him, and by look, speech, and manner, I might judge whether the circumstance of her marriage had very much afflicted him. Happily I could perceive no shadow of a difference: he wore the same aspect as he had worn two months ago—voice, look, manner, all alike unchanged: there was the same keen-sighted, unclouded truthfulness in his discourse, the same forcible clearness in his style, the same earnest simplicity in all he said and did, that made itself, not marked by the eye and ear, but felt upon the hearts of his audience.
然而，周日即将到来：那时我应该见到他：既然穆雷小姐走了，我就可以再次拥有我的老角落了。我应该见到他，通过外表、言语和举止，我可以判断她的婚姻状况是否对他造成了很大的困扰。庆幸的是，我看不出有什么异样：他的面貌和两个月前一模一样——声音、表情、举止都没有变化：他的话语里有同样的敏锐、坦诚，同样的有力。他的风格清晰明了，他的一言一行都同样真诚简单，这一切不被眼睛和耳朵所察觉，而是被听众的心所感受到。

I walked home with Miss Matilda; but HE DID NOT JOIN US. Matilda was now sadly at a loss for amusement, and wofully in want of a companion: her brothers at school, her sister married and gone, she too young to be admitted into society; for which, from Rosalie’s example, she was in some degree beginning to acquire a taste—a taste at least for the company of certain classes of gentlemen; at this dull time of year—no hunting going on, no shooting even—for, though she might not join in that, it was SOMETHING to see her father or the gamekeeper go out with the dogs, and to talk with them on their return, about the different birds they had bagged. Now, also, she was denied the solace which the companionship of the coachman, grooms, horses, greyhounds, and pointers might have afforded; for her mother having, notwithstanding the disadvantages of a country life, so satisfactorily disposed of her elder daughter, the pride of her heart had begun seriously to turn her attention to the younger; and, being truly alarmed at the roughness of her manners, and thinking it high time to work a reform, had been roused at length to exert her authority, and prohibited entirely the yards, stables, kennels, and coach-house. Of course, she was not implicitly obeyed; but, indulgent as she had hitherto been, when once her spirit was roused, her temper was not so gentle as she required that of her governesses to be, and her will was not to be thwarted with impunity. After many a scene of contention between mother and daughter, many a violent outbreak which I was ashamed to witness, in which the father’s authority was often called in to confirm with oaths and threats the mother’s slighted prohibitions—for even HE could see that ‘Tilly, though she would have made a fine lad, was not quite what a young lady ought to be’—Matilda at length found that her easiest plan was to keep clear of the forbidden regions; unless she could now and then steal a visit without her watchful mother’s knowledge.
我和玛蒂尔达小姐一起走回家。但他没有加入我们。玛蒂尔达现在可悲地失去了娱乐，并且不幸地需要一个陪伴：她的兄弟在学校，她的妹妹结婚并走了，她还太年轻，无法进入社会；从罗莎莉的例子来看，她在某种程度上开始养成这种习惯——至少是与某些阶层的绅士为伍的习惯。在一年中这个沉闷的时刻——没有狩猎，甚至没有射击——因为，尽管她可能不会参加，但看到她的父亲或猎场看守带着狗出去，并在他们回来后与他们交谈，这也是一件很有趣的事情，关于他们入袋的不同鸟类。现在，她也失去了车夫、马夫、马匹、灰狗和指示犬的陪伴所能提供的安慰。尽管乡村生活有诸多弊端，但她的母亲还是对大女儿处理得非常满意，她内心的骄傲已经开始认真地将注意力转向小女儿。她的粗暴举止确实让她感到震惊，并认为是时候进行改革了，最终被唤醒行使她的权威，并完全禁止进入院子、马厩、狗舍和马车房。当然，她并没有被默许地服从；但是，尽管她迄今为止一直很宽容，但一旦她的精神被唤醒，她的脾气就不再像她要求家庭女教师那样温和，而且她的意志不会受到阻碍而不受惩罚。 在母女之间多次发生争吵，多次爆发暴力事件之后，我都羞于亲眼目睹，其中父亲的权威经常被要求以誓言和威胁来确认母亲的轻微禁令——因为即使是他也能看到“蒂莉”虽然她会成为一个优秀的小伙子，但她并不是一个年轻女士应有的样子。”——玛蒂尔达最终发现她最简单的计划就是避开禁区；除非她能时不时地在她警惕的母亲不知情的情况下偷偷拜访。

Amid all this, let it not be imagined that I escaped without many a reprimand, and many an implied reproach, that lost none of its sting from not being openly worded; but rather wounded the more deeply, because, from that very reason, it seemed to preclude selfdefence. Frequently, I was told to amuse Miss Matilda with other things, and to remind her of her mother’s precepts and prohibitions. I did so to the best of my power: but she would not be amused against her will, and could not against her taste; and though I went beyond mere reminding, such gentle remonstrances as I could use were utterly ineffectual.
在这一切之中，不要想象我逃脱了，没有受到许多谴责，也没有受到许多暗示的责备，这种责备没有因为没有公开措辞而失去其刺痛；而是伤害更深，因为正是从这个原因来看，它似乎排除了自卫。我经常被告知要用其他事情来逗玛蒂尔达小姐开心，并提醒她她母亲的戒律和禁令。我尽了最大的努力，但她不会违背自己的意愿而被逗乐，也无法违背她的口味；尽管我所做的不仅仅是提醒，但我所能使用的这种温和的抗议却完全没有效果。

‘DEAR Miss Grey! it is the STRANGEST thing. I suppose you can’t help it, if it’s not in your nature—but I WONDER you can’t win the confidence of that girl, and make your society at LEAST as agreeable to her as that of Robert or Joseph!’
“亲爱的格雷小姐！这是最奇怪的事情。我想你无法控制它，如果这不是你的本性，但我想知道你无法赢得那个女孩的信任，并使你的社会至少像罗伯特或约瑟夫那样适合她！

‘They can talk the best about the things in which she is most interested,’ I replied.
“他们可以谈论她最感兴趣的事情，”我回答道。

‘Well! that is a strange confession, HOWEVER, to come from her GOVERNESS! Who is to form a young lady’s tastes, I wonder, if the governess doesn’t do it? I have known governesses who have so completely identified themselves with the reputation of their young ladies for elegance and propriety in mind and manners, that they would blush to speak a word against them; and to hear the slightest blame imputed to their pupils was worse than to be censured in their own persons—and I really think it very natural, for my part.’
'出色地！然而，这是来自她的家庭教师的坦白！我想知道，如果家庭女教师不这样做，谁来塑造年轻女士的品味呢？我认识一些家庭女教师，她们完全认同她们年轻女士优雅、得体的思想和举止的声誉，以至于她们会因为反对她们而脸红。听到对学生的最轻微的责备比对他们自己进行谴责更糟糕——就我而言，我真的认为这是很自然的。

‘Do you, ma’am?’
“是吗，女士？”

‘Yes, of course: the young lady’s proficiency and elegance is of more consequence to the governess than her own, as well as to the world. If she wishes to prosper in her vocation she must devote all her energies to her business: all her ideas and all her ambition will tend to the accomplishment of that one object. When we wish to decide upon the merits of a governess, we naturally look at the young ladies she professes to have educated, and judge accordingly. The JUDICIOUS governess knows this: she knows that, while she lives in obscurity herself, her pupils’ virtues and defects will be open to every eye; and that, unless she loses sight of herself in their cultivation, she need not hope for success. You see, Miss Grey, it is just the same as any other trade or profession: they that wish to prosper must devote themselves body and soul to their calling; and if they begin to yield to indolence or self-indulgence they are speedily distanced by wiser competitors: there is little to choose between a person that ruins her pupils by neglect, and one that corrupts them by her example. You will excuse my dropping these little hints: you know it is all for your own good. Many ladies would speak to you much more strongly; and many would not trouble themselves to speak at all, but quietly look out for a substitute. That, of course, would be the EASIEST plan: but I know the advantages of a place like this to a person in your situation; and I have no desire to part with you, as I am sure you would do very well if you will only think of these things and try to exert yourself a LITTLE more: then, I am convinced, you would SOON acquire that delicate tact which alone is wanting to give you a proper influence over the mind of your pupil.’
“是的，当然：这位年轻女士的熟练和优雅对家庭女教师来说比她自己更重要，对整个世界也是如此。如果她希望在自己的职业中取得成功，她必须将所有的精力投入到她的事业上：她所有的想法和所有的抱负都将致力于实现这一目标。当我们想要判断一位家庭教师的优点时，我们自然会关注她自称受过教育的年轻女士，并做出相应的判断。明智的家庭女教师知道这一点：她知道，当她自己生活在默默无闻的时候，她的学生的优点和缺点将被所有人所看到；除非她在修炼中迷失了自己，否则她就不必指望成功。你看，格雷小姐，这与任何其他行业或职业一样：想要繁荣的人必须全身心地投入到他们的职业中；如果他们开始懒惰或自我放纵，他们很快就会被更明智的竞争者拉开距离：在因疏忽而毁掉学生的人和因榜样而腐蚀学生的人之间，几乎没有什么选择。请原谅我放弃这些小暗示：你知道这都是为了你好。许多女士会对你说话更加强烈；许多人根本不肯说话，而是静静地寻找替代者。当然，这将是最简单的计划：但我知道这样的地方对于像你这样的人来说有什么好处；我不想与你分开，因为我相信，如果你只想这些事情，并尝试多努力一点，你会做得很好：然后，我相信，你很快就会获得那种微妙的机智，唯一的目的就是想让你对学生的思想产生适当的影响。

I was about to give the lady some idea of the fallacy of her expectations; but she sailed away as soon as she had concluded her speech. Having said what she wished, it was no part of her plan to await my answer: it was my business to hear, and not to speak.
我正要让这位女士了解她的期望是错误的；但她演讲一结束就扬帆离去。说出了她的愿望后，她的计划中并没有等待我的答案：我的职责是听，而不是说话。

However, as I have said, Matilda at length yielded in some degree to her mother’s authority (pity it had not been exerted before); and being thus deprived of almost every source of amusement, there was nothing for it but to take long rides with the groom and long walks with the governess, and to visit the cottages and farmhouses on her father’s estate, to kill time in chatting with the old men and women that inhabited them. In one of these walks, it was our chance to meet Mr. Weston. This was what I had long desired; but now, for a moment, I wished either he or I were away: I felt my heart throb so violently that I dreaded lest some outward signs of emotion should appear; but I think he hardly glanced at me, and I was soon calm enough. After a brief salutation to both, he asked Matilda if she had lately heard from her sister.
然而，正如我所说，玛蒂尔达最终在某种程度上屈服于她母亲的权威（可惜以前没有发挥过）；就这样，几乎所有的娱乐活动都被剥夺了，除了和新郎一起长途骑行，和家庭女教师一起长途散步，参观她父亲庄园里的小屋和农舍，与丈夫聊天消磨时间之外，别无他法。居住在其中的老人和妇女。在其中一次散步中，我们有机会见到韦斯顿先生。这是我长久以来的愿望；但现在，有一瞬间，我希望他或我离开：我感到我的心剧烈地跳动，以至于我担心会出现一些外在的情感迹象；但我想他几乎没有看我一眼，我很快就平静下来了。在向两人简短致意后，他问玛蒂尔达最近是否收到了她姐姐的消息。

‘Yes,’ replied she. ‘She was at Paris when she wrote, and very well, and very happy.’
“是的，”她回答道。 “她写作时正在巴黎，状态很好，也很快乐。”

She spoke the last word emphatically, and with a glance impertinently sly. He did not seem to notice it, but replied, with equal emphasis, and very seriously -
她说最后一个字的时候语气很重，眼神中却带着不客气的狡黠。他似乎没有注意到，却同样强调，而且非常认真地回答道——

‘I hope she will continue to be so.’
“我希望她能继续这样。”

‘Do you think it likely?’ I ventured to inquire: for Matilda had started off in pursuit of her dog, that was chasing a leveret.
“你认为这有可能吗？”我大胆地问道：因为玛蒂尔达开始追她的狗，那是在追一只小兔子。

‘I cannot tell,’ replied he. ‘Sir Thomas may be a better man than I suppose; but, from all I have heard and seen, it seems a pity that one so young and gay, and—and interesting, to express many things by one word—whose greatest, if not her only fault, appears to be thoughtlessness—no trifling fault to be sure, since it renders the possessor liable to almost every other, and exposes him to so many temptations—but it seems a pity that she should be thrown away on such a man. It was her mother’s wish, I suppose?’
“我不知道，”他回答道。 “托马斯爵士可能比我想象的更好；但是，从我所听到和看到的一切来看，这似乎是一种遗憾，一个如此年轻、快乐的人，而且——而且有趣的是，用一个词表达很多事情——她最大的错误，如果不是唯一的错误，似乎是粗心大意——不是微不足道的。确实是过错，因为它使占有者对几乎所有其他人都负有责任，并使他受到如此多的诱惑——但她应该被这样一个男人抛弃，这似乎很遗憾。我想这是她母亲的愿望吧？

‘Yes; and her own too, I think, for she always laughed at my attempts to dissuade her from the step.’
'是的;我想，她自己的也是如此，因为她总是嘲笑我试图劝阻她不要迈出这一步。

‘You did attempt it? Then, at least, you will have the satisfaction of knowing that it is no fault of yours, if any harm should come of it. As for Mrs. Murray, I don’t know how she can justify her conduct: if I had sufficient acquaintance with her, I’d ask her.’
‘你确实尝试过吗？然后，至少，如果它造成任何伤害，你会满意地知道这不是你的错。至于默里夫人，我不知道她如何为自己的行为辩护：如果我对她足够了解，我会问她。

‘It seems unnatural: but some people think rank and wealth the chief good; and, if they can secure that for their children, they think they have done their duty.’
“这似乎不自然：但有些人认为地位和财富是首要的善；而且，如果他们能为自己的孩子确保这一点，他们就认为自己已经履行了自己的职责。”

‘True: but is it not strange that persons of experience, who have been married themselves, should judge so falsely?’ Matilda now came panting back, with the lacerated body of the young hare in her hand.
“确实如此，但是那些自己结过婚的有经验的人做出如此错误的判断，这不奇怪吗？”玛蒂尔达气喘吁吁地回来了，手里拿着小兔子被撕裂的尸体。

‘Was it your intention to kill that hare, or to save it, Miss Murray?’ asked Mr. Weston, apparently puzzled at her gleeful countenance.
“默里小姐，你是想杀掉那只兔子，还是想救它？”韦斯顿先生问道，显然对她高兴的表情感到困惑。

‘I pretended to want to save it,’ she answered, honestly enough, ‘as it was so glaringly out of season; but I was better pleased to see it lolled. However, you can both witness that I couldn’t help it: Prince was determined to have her; and he clutched her by the back, and killed her in a minute! Wasn’t it a noble chase?’
“我假装想要保存它，”她诚实地回答，“因为它明显不合时宜；但它确实是不合时宜的。”但我更高兴看到它懒洋洋地躺着。然而，你们都可以看到，我无能为力：普林斯决心要拥有她；他抓住她的后背，一分钟就把她杀了！这不是一次高贵的追逐吗？

‘Very! for a young lady after a leveret.’
'非常！对于一位年轻女士来说，这是一件小事。

There was a quiet sarcasm in the tone of his reply which was not lost upon her; she shrugged her shoulders, and, turning away with a significant ‘Humph!’ asked me how I had enjoyed the fun. I replied that I saw no fun in the matter; but admitted that I had not observed the transaction very narrowly.
他的回答语气里有一种无声的讽刺，她也注意到了这一点。她耸耸肩，然后“哼！”地转过身去，问我玩得怎么样。我回答说我觉得这件事没有什么好玩的。但我承认我并没有非常仔细地观察这笔交易。

‘Didn’t you see how it doubled—just like an old hare? and didn’t you hear it scream?’
“你没看到它是如何翻倍的吗——就像一只老兔子一样？你没听到它尖叫吗？

‘I’m happy to say I did not.’
“我很高兴地说我没有。”

‘It cried out just like a child.’
“它像个孩子一样哭喊。”

‘Poor little thing! What will you do with it?’
'可怜的小东西！你会用它做什么？

‘Come along—I shall leave it in the first house we come to. I don’t want to take it home, for fear papa should scold me for letting the dog kill it.’
“来吧——我会把它放在我们到达的第一栋房子里。我不想把它带回家，因为害怕爸爸会责骂我让狗咬死了它。”

Mr. Weston was now gone, and we too went on our way; but as we returned, after having deposited the hare in a farm-house, and demolished some spice-cake and currant-wine in exchange, we met him returning also from the execution of his mission, whatever it might be. He carried in his hand a cluster of beautiful bluebells, which he offered to me; observing, with a smile, that though he had seen so little of me for the last two months, he had not forgotten that bluebells were numbered among my favourite flowers. It was done as a simple act of goodwill, without compliment or remarkable courtesy, or any look that could be construed into ‘reverential, tender adoration’ (vide Rosalie Murray); but still, it was something to find my unimportant saying so well remembered: it was something that he had noticed so accurately the time I had ceased to be visible.
韦斯顿先生现在已经走了，我们也上路了。但当我们把野兔存放在农舍里，并拆掉一些香料蛋糕和醋栗酒作为交换后，我们回来时，我们遇到了他也完成了他的任务，无论是什么任务。他手里拿着一簇美丽的风信子，送给我。他微笑着观察到，尽管过去两个月他很少见到我，但他并没有忘记风铃草是我最喜欢的花之一。这是一种简单的善意行为，没有恭维或非凡的礼貌，也没有任何可以被解释为“虔诚、温柔的崇拜”的眼神（参见罗莎莉·默里）；但尽管如此，我发现我那句不重要的话被如此牢牢地记住了：当我不再可见时，他就如此准确地注意到了这一点。

‘I was told,’ said he, ‘that you were a perfect bookworm, Miss Grey: so completely absorbed in your studies that you were lost to every other pleasure.’
“有人告诉我，”他说，“格雷小姐，你是一个完美的书呆子：你完全沉浸在学习中，以至于忘记了其他一切乐趣。”

‘Yes, and it’s quite true!’ cried Matilda.
“是的，这是千真万确的！”玛蒂尔达喊道。

‘No, Mr. Weston: don’t believe it: it’s a scandalous libel. These young ladies are too fond of making random assertions at the expense of their friends; and you ought to be careful how you listen to them.’
“不，韦斯顿先生：别相信：这是可耻的诽谤。这些年轻女士太喜欢以牺牲朋友的利益为代价做出随意的断言；你应该小心如何倾听他们的声音。

‘I hope THIS assertion is groundless, at any rate.’
“无论如何，我希望这种说法是毫无根据的。”

‘Why? Do you particularly object to ladies studying?’
'为什么？你特别反对女士学习吗？

‘No; but I object to anyone so devoting himself or herself to study, as to lose sight of everything else. Except under peculiar circumstances, I consider very close and constant study as a waste of time, and an injury to the mind as well as the body.’
'不;但我反对任何人只顾学习而忽略了其他一切。除非在特殊情况下，我认为非常密切和持续的学习是浪费时间，并且对身心造成伤害。

‘Well, I have neither the time nor the inclination for such transgressions.’
“好吧，我既没有时间也没有兴趣做出这样的违法行为。”

We parted again.
我们又分手了。

Well! what is there remarkable in all this? Why have I recorded it? Because, reader, it was important enough to give me a cheerful evening, a night of pleasing dreams, and a morning of felicitous hopes. Shallow-brained cheerfulness, foolish dreams, unfounded hopes, you would say; and I will not venture to deny it: suspicions to that effect arose too frequently in my own mind. But our wishes are like tinder: the flint and steel of circumstances are continually striking out sparks, which vanish immediately, unless they chance to fall upon the tinder of our wishes; then, they instantly ignite, and the flame of hope is kindled in a moment.
出色地！这一切有什么值得注意的地方呢？为什么我要记录它？因为，读者，它足够重要，它给了我一个愉快的夜晚，一个美梦之夜，一个充满幸福希望的早晨。你会说，浅薄的快乐、愚蠢的梦想、毫无根据的希望；我不敢否认这一点：我自己的脑海里经常出现这样的怀疑。但我们的愿望就像火种：环境的打火石不断地打出火花，除非它们碰巧落在我们愿望的火种上，否则火花立即消失；然后，它们瞬间被点燃，希望的火焰瞬间被点燃。

But alas! that very morning, my flickering flame of hope was dismally quenched by a letter from my mother, which spoke so seriously of my father’s increasing illness, that I feared there was little or no chance of his recovery; and, close at hand as the holidays were, I almost trembled lest they should come too late for me to meet him in this world. Two days after, a letter from Mary told me his life was despaired of, and his end seemed fast approaching. Then, immediately, I sought permission to anticipate the vacation, and go without delay. Mrs. Murray stared, and wondered at the unwonted energy and boldness with which I urged the request, and thought there was no occasion to hurry; but finally gave me leave: stating, however, that there was ‘no need to be in such agitation about the matter—it might prove a false alarm after all; and if not—why, it was only in the common course of nature: we must all die some time; and I was not to suppose myself the only afflicted person in the world;’ and concluding with saying I might have the phaeton to take me to O-. ‘And instead of REPINING, Miss Grey, be thankful for the PRIVILEGES you enjoy. There’s many a poor clergyman whose family would be plunged into ruin by the event of his death; but you, you see, have influential friends ready to continue their patronage, and to show you every consideration.’
可惜！就在那天早上，我那摇曳的希望之火被母亲的一封信浇灭了，信中如此严肃地谈到了父亲病情日益严重，以至于我担心他康复的机会很小或根本没有。而且，假期即将来临，我几乎颤抖着，生怕假期来得太晚，我无法在这个世界上见到他。两天后，玛丽写来一封信，告诉我他的生活已经绝望，他的末日似乎即将来临。然后，我立即请求允许安排假期，并立即出发。默里夫人凝视着我，对我提出这个请求所表现出的异常的精力和大胆感到惊讶，并认为没有必要着急。但最终还是让我离开了：不过，他说“没有必要对此事如此焦躁——这毕竟可能是一场虚惊；”如果不是的话——为什么呢，这只是自然的普遍规律：我们总有一天会死去；我们都会死去。我不认为自己是世界上唯一受苦的人；’最后说我可能有一辆四轮马车带我去O-。 “格雷小姐，不要抱怨，而是要感谢你所享受的特权。有许多贫穷的牧师，他的死会使他的家庭陷入毁灭。但你看，你有一些有影响力的朋友准备继续他们的赞助，并向你表示一切考虑。

I thanked her for her ‘consideration,’ and flew to my room to make some hurried preparations for my departure. My bonnet and shawl being on, and a few things hastily crammed into my largest trunk, I descended. But I might have done the work more leisurely, for no one else was in a hurry; and I had still a considerable time to wait for the phaeton. At length it came to the door, and I was off: but, oh, what a dreary journey was that! how utterly different from my former passages homewards! Being too late for the last coach to -, I had to hire a cab for ten miles, and then a car to take me over the rugged hills.
我感谢她的“体贴”，然后飞回我的房间，为我的离开做一些匆忙的准备。我戴上帽子和披肩，把一些东西匆匆塞进我最大的行李箱里，然后下了楼。但我本来可以更悠闲地完成这项工作，因为其他人都不着急。我还有相当长的时间等待辉腾。终于，它到了门口，我就出发了：但是，哦，那是多么沉闷的旅程啊！这与我以前回家的路途是多么不同啊！由于最后一班巴士来不及了，我不得不租一辆出租车行驶十英里，然后再租一辆汽车带我翻越崎岖的山丘。

It was half-past ten before I reached home. They were not in bed.
我到家时已经十点半了。他们没有上床。

My mother and sister both met me in the passage—sad—silent—pale! I was so much shocked and terror-stricken that I could not speak, to ask the information I so much longed yet dreaded to obtain.
我的母亲和姐姐都在过道里遇见了我——悲伤——沉默——苍白！我感到非常震惊和恐惧，以至于无法说话，无法询问我如此渴望却又害怕获得的信息。

‘Agnes!’ said my mother, struggling to repress some strong emotion.
“艾格尼丝！”我母亲说道，努力抑制着某种强烈的情绪。

‘Oh, Agnes!’ cried Mary, and burst into tears.
“噢，艾格尼丝！”玛丽哭了起来。

‘How is he?’ I asked, gasping for the answer.
“他怎么样？”我问道，急切地想要得到答案。

‘Dead!’
'死的！'

It was the reply I had anticipated: but the shock seemed none the less tremendous.
这正是我预料到的答复：但震惊似乎仍然是巨大的。

CHAPTER XIX—THE LETTER
第十九章——信

My father’s mortal remains had been consigned to the tomb; and we, with sad faces and sombre garments, sat lingering over the frugal breakfast-table, revolving plans for our future life. My mother’s strong mind had not given way beneath even this affliction: her spirit, though crushed, was not broken. Mary’s wish was that I should go back to Horton Lodge, and that our mother should come and live with her and Mr. Richardson at the vicarage: she affirmed that he wished it no less than herself, and that such an arrangement could not fail to benefit all parties; for my mother’s society and experience would be of inestimable value to them, and they would do all they could to make her happy. But no arguments or entreaties could prevail: my mother was determined not to go. Not that she questioned, for a moment, the kind wishes and intentions of her daughter; but she affirmed that so long as God spared her health and strength, she would make use of them to earn her own livelihood, and be chargeable to no one; whether her dependence would be felt as a burden or not. If she could afford to reside as a lodger in—vicarage, she would choose that house before all others as the place of her abode; but not being so circumstanced, she would never come under its roof, except as an occasional visitor: unless sickness or calamity should render her assistance really needful, or until age or infirmity made her incapable of maintaining herself.
我父亲的遗体已被安葬在坟墓里。我们面带悲伤，衣着阴沉，坐在简朴的早餐桌上，盘算着未来的生活。即使在这种痛苦之下，我母亲坚强的意志也没有屈服：她的精神虽然被压垮了，但并没有被击垮。玛丽的愿望是我应该回到霍顿小屋，我们的母亲应该来和她以及理查森先生一起住在牧师住宅：她确认他和她一样希望如此，这样的安排不可能失败。使各方受益；因为我母亲的社会和经历对他们来说具有不可估量的价值，他们会尽一切努力让她快乐。但任何争论或恳求都无法奏效：我母亲坚决不去。并不是说她有一刻质疑过女儿的善意愿望和意图；而是说，她没有怀疑过女儿的善意和意图。但她确信，只要上帝保佑她的健康和体力，她就会利用它们谋生，不向任何人负责；她的依赖是否会被视为一种负担。如果她有能力住在——牧师住宅里，她会首先选择那所房子作为她的住所。但如果不是这样，她永远不会到这里来，除非偶尔来访：除非疾病或灾难确实需要她的帮助，或者直到年老或虚弱使她无法维持自己的生活。

‘No, Mary,’ said she, ‘if Richardson and you have anything to spare, you must lay it aside for your family; and Agnes and I must gather honey for ourselves. Thanks to my having had daughters to educate, I have not forgotten my accomplishments. God willing, I will check this vain repining,’ she said, while the tears coursed one another down her cheeks in spite of her efforts; but she wiped them away, and resolutely shaking back her head, continued, ‘I will exert myself, and look out for a small house, commodiously situated in some populous but healthy district, where we will take a few young ladies to board and educate—if we can get them—and as many day pupils as will come, or as we can manage to instruct. Your father’s relations and old friends will be able to send us some pupils, or to assist us with their recommendations, no doubt: I shall not apply to my own. What say you to it, Agnes? will you be willing to leave your present situation and try?’
“不，玛丽，”她说，“如果理查森和你有什么多余的东西，你必须把它留给你的家人;艾格尼丝和我必须为自己采蜜。感谢我有女儿接受教育，我没有忘记我的成就。上帝保佑，我会制止这种徒劳的抱怨，”她说，尽管她很努力，但泪水却从她的脸颊上滚落下来。但她把它们擦掉，坚决地摇头，继续说道：“我会努力，在人口稠密但健康的地区寻找一所宽敞的小房子，带几个年轻的女士在那里寄宿和教育。” ——如果我们能招到他们——以及尽可能多的走读学生，或者我们能设法指导的学生。你父亲的亲戚和老朋友将能够给我们派一些学生，或者帮助我们推荐他们，毫无疑问：我不会申请我自己的学生。艾格尼丝，你对此有何看法？你愿意离开现在的处境去尝试吗？

‘Quite willing, mamma; and the money I have saved will do to furnish the house. It shall be taken from the bank directly.’
“非常愿意，妈妈；我省下来的钱可以用来装修房子了。应直接从银行提取。

‘When it is wanted: we must get the house, and settle on preliminaries first.’
“当需要的时候：我们必须得到房子，并先做好初步准备。”

Mary offered to lend the little she possessed; but my mother declined it, saying that we must begin on an economical plan; and she hoped that the whole or part of mine, added to what we could get by the sale of the furniture, and what little our dear papa had contrived to lay aside for her since the debts were paid, would be sufficient to last us till Christmas; when, it was hoped, something would accrue from our united labours. It was finally settled that this should be our plan; and that inquiries and preparations should immediately be set on foot; and while my mother busied herself with these, I should return to Horton Lodge at the close of my four weeks’ vacation, and give notice for my final departure when things were in train for the speedy commencement of our school.
玛丽提出借出她仅有的一点财产。但我母亲拒绝了，她说我们必须开始制定一个经济的计划。她希望我的全部或部分财产，加上我们通过出售家具所能得到的钱，以及我们亲爱的爸爸自从还清债务后为她留出的那一点点钱，足以让我们维持下去，直到圣诞节;那时，人们希望我们团结一致的劳动能有所收获。最后决定这就是我们的计划；应立即着手进行调查和准备工作；当我母亲忙于这些事情时，我应该在四个星期的假期结束时返回霍顿旅馆，并在学校迅速开学的一切准备就绪时通知我最后一次离开。

We were discussing these affairs on the morning I have mentioned, about a fortnight after my father’s death, when a letter was brought in for my mother, on beholding which the colour mounted to her face—lately pale enough with anxious watchings and excessive sorrow. ‘From my father!’ murmured she, as she hastily tore off the cover. It was many years since she had heard from any of her own relations before. Naturally wondering what the letter might contain, I watched her countenance while she read it, and was somewhat surprised to see her bite her lip and knit her brows as if in anger. When she had done, she somewhat irreverently cast it on the table, saying with a scornful smile,—‘Your grandpapa has been so kind as to write to me. He says he has no doubt I have long repented of my ‘unfortunate marriage,’ and if I will only acknowledge this, and confess I was wrong in neglecting his advice, and that I have justly suffered for it, he will make a lady of me once again—if that be possible after my long degradation—and remember my girls in his will. Get my desk, Agnes, and send these things away: I will answer the letter directly. But first, as I may be depriving you both of a legacy, it is just that I should tell you what I mean to say. I shall say that he is mistaken in supposing that I can regret the birth of my daughters (who have been the pride of my life, and are likely to be the comfort of my old age), or the thirty years I have passed in the company of my best and dearest friend;—that, had our misfortunes been three times as great as they were (unless they had been of my bringing on), I should still the more rejoice to have shared them with your father, and administered what consolation I was able; and, had his sufferings in illness been ten times what they wore, I could not regret having watched over and laboured to relieve them;—that, if he had married a richer wife, misfortunes and trials would no doubt have come upon him still; while I am egotist enough to imagine that no other woman could have cheered him through them so well: not that I am superior to the rest, but I was made for him, and he for me; and I can no more repent the hours, days, years of happiness we have spent together, and which neither could have had without the other, than I can the privilege of having been his nurse in sickness, and his comfort in affliction.
我提到的那天早上，我们正在讨论这些事情，大约在我父亲去世两周后，一封给我母亲的信被送来，看到这封信，她的脸色涨红了——最近由于焦虑的注视和过度的悲伤而变得苍白。 “我父亲写的！”她低声说道，同时急忙撕下封面。她已经很多年没有收到过自己亲戚的来信了。我很自然地想知道这封信里会写什么，我看着她读信时的表情，有些惊讶地看到她咬着嘴唇，皱着眉头，好像很生气。说完，她有些不敬地把它扔在桌子上，轻蔑地笑道：“你爷爷真是好心给我写信了。”他说他毫不怀疑我早已为我的“不幸的婚姻”悔恨已久，如果我承认这一点，并承认我忽视他的建议是错误的，并且我为此遭受了公正的痛苦，他就会成为一位女士再次我——如果在我长期堕落之后可能的话——并在他的遗嘱中记住我的女儿们。艾格尼丝，拿起我的桌子，把这些东西寄走：我会直接回信。但首先，由于我可能会剥夺你们俩的遗产，所以我应该告诉你们我想说的话。 我要说的是，他错误地认为我会后悔女儿们的出生（她们是我一生的骄傲，很可能成为我晚年的安慰），或者我已经度过了三十年。我最好和最亲爱的朋友的陪伴；——如果我们的不幸是原来的三倍（除非它们是我造成的），我会更加高兴能与你的父亲分享这些不幸，并执行什么我能够得到安慰；而且，如果他的病痛比他们所受的痛苦多十倍，我也不会后悔照顾和努力减轻他们的痛苦；——如果他娶了一个更富有的妻子，不幸和考验无疑仍然会降临到他身上；虽然我很自私，可以想象没有其他女人可以通过这些事情让他如此高兴：并不是说我比其他人优越，而是我是为他而生，他是为我而生；我无法悔恨我们一起度过的幸福的时光、日子、岁月，如果没有对方，我们就不可能拥有这些幸福，就像我有幸在他生病时担任他的护士，在他痛苦时安慰他一样。

‘Will this do, children?—or shall I say we are all very sorry for what has happened during the last thirty years, and my daughters wish they had never been born; but since they have had that misfortune, they will be thankful for any trifle their grandpapa will be kind enough to bestow?’
“孩子们，这样可以吗？——或者我应该说，我们都对过去三十年发生的事情感到非常遗憾，我的女儿们希望她们从未出生过；但既然他们遭遇了这样的不幸，他们会感激他们的爷爷赐予的任何一点小东西吗？

Of course, we both applauded our mother’s resolution; Mary cleared away the breakfast things; I brought the desk; the letter was quickly written and despatched; and, from that day, we heard no more of our grandfather, till we saw his death announced in the newspaper a considerable time after—all his worldly possessions, of course, being left to our wealthy unknown cousins.
当然，我们都对母亲的决定表示赞赏。玛丽收拾好了早餐的东西；我把桌子带来了；这封信很快就写好了并寄出。从那天起，我们就再也没有听说过祖父的消息，直到很久之后我们才在报纸上看到他去世的消息——当然，他所有的世俗财产都留给了我们富有的、不知名的表兄弟。

CHAPTER XX—THE FAREWELL
第二十章——告别

A house in A—-, the fashionable watering-place, was hired for our seminary; and a promise of two or three pupils was obtained to commence with. I returned to Horton Lodge about the middle of July, leaving my mother to conclude the bargain for the house, to obtain more pupils, to sell off the furniture of our old abode, and to fit out the new one.
我们的神学院在A——时尚的饮水胜地租了一间房子；并获得了开始招收两到三名学生的承诺。大约七月中旬，我回到霍顿旅馆，留下母亲去完成房子的交易，招收更多的学生，卖掉我们旧住所的家具，并装修新的家具。

We often pity the poor, because they have no leisure to mourn their departed relatives, and necessity obliges them to labour through their severest afflictions: but is not active employment the best remedy for overwhelming sorrow—the surest antidote for despair? It may be a rough comforter: it may seem hard to be harassed with the cares of life when we have no relish for its enjoyments; to be goaded to labour when the heart is ready to break, and the vexed spirit implores for rest only to weep in silence: but is not labour better than the rest we covet? and are not those petty, tormenting cares less hurtful than a continual brooding over the great affliction that oppresses us? Besides, we cannot have cares, and anxieties, and toil, without hope—if it be but the hope of fulfilling our joyless task, accomplishing some needful project, or escaping some further annoyance. At any rate, I was glad my mother had so much employment for every faculty of her action-loving frame. Our kind neighbours lamented that she, once so exalted in wealth and station, should be reduced to such extremity in her time of sorrow; but I am persuaded that she would have suffered thrice as much had she been left in affluence, with liberty to remain in that house, the scene of her early happiness and late affliction, and no stern necessity to prevent her from incessantly brooding over and lamenting her bereavement.
我们常常怜悯穷人，因为他们没有闲暇哀悼已故的亲人，而生活必需品迫使他们在最严峻的苦难中劳动：但积极就业难道不是治疗压倒性悲伤的最佳良药——是绝望的最可靠的解药吗？它可能是一个粗暴的安慰者：当我们不享受生活的乐趣时，似乎很难被生活的忧虑所困扰；当心快要破碎的时候，却被催促去劳动，烦恼的精神恳求休息，结果却只是默默哭泣：但是劳动难道不比我们所渴望的休息更好吗？那些琐碎的、令人痛苦的忧虑难道不比不断地沉思压迫我们的巨大苦难更伤人吗？此外，如果没有希望，我们就不能有忧虑、焦虑和辛劳——如果这只是希望完成我们无趣的任务，完成一些必要的项目，或者逃避一些进一步的烦恼。无论如何，我很高兴我的母亲有这么多的工作来满足她热爱行动的身体的每一个能力。我们善良的邻居们感叹，她曾经拥有如此崇高的财富和地位，在她悲伤的时候却沦落到如此极端的地步。但我相信，如果她生活富裕，可以自由地留在那所她早年幸福、晚年痛苦的房子里，而且没有必要阻止她不断地沉思和哀叹，她会遭受三倍的痛苦。她的丧亲之痛。

I will not dilate upon the feelings with which I left the old house, the well-known garden, the little village church—then doubly dear to me, because my father, who, for thirty years, had taught and prayed within its walls, lay slumbering now beneath its flags—and the old bare hills, delightful in their very desolation, with the narrow vales between, smiling in green wood and sparkling water—the house where I was born, the scene of all my early associations, the place where throughout life my earthly affections had been centred;—and left them to return no more! True, I was going back to Horton Lodge, where, amid many evils, one source of pleasure yet remained: but it was pleasure mingled with excessive pain; and my stay, alas! was limited to six weeks. And even of that precious time, day after day slipped by and I did not see him: except at church, I never saw him for a fortnight after my return. It seemed a long time to me: and, as I was often out with my rambling pupil, of course hopes would keep rising, and disappointments would ensue; and then, I would say to my own heart, ‘Here is a convincing proof—if you would but have the sense to see it, or the candour to acknowledge it—that he does not care for you. If he only thought HALF as much about you as you do about him, he would have contrived to meet you many times ere this: you must know that, by consulting your own feelings. Therefore, have done with this nonsense: you have no ground for hope: dismiss, at once, these hurtful thoughts and foolish wishes from your mind, and turn to your own duty, and the dull blank life that lies before you. You might have known such happiness was not for you.’
我不会详述我离开老房子、著名的花园、小乡村教堂时的感受——当时对我来说加倍亲爱，因为我的父亲，三十年来一直在它的围墙内教导和祈祷，现在在它的旗帜下沉睡——古老的光秃秃的山丘，在荒凉中令人愉悦，中间狭窄的山谷，在绿色的树林和波光粼粼的水中微笑——我出生的房子，我所有早期联想的场景，这个地方我一生的世俗情感都集中在那里；——并且让它们不再回归！确实，我要回到霍顿小屋，那里虽然有许多罪恶，但仍然存在一种快乐的源泉：但它是快乐与过度痛苦的混合体；它是快乐的源泉。我的停留，唉！仅限六周。即使是那段宝贵的时光，日复一日地过去了，我也没有见到他：除了在教堂，我回来后的两周内都没有见过他。对我来说，这似乎是一段很长的时间：而且，由于我经常带着我那漫无目的的学生出去，当然希望会不断上升，失望也会随之而来；但我知道，这对我来说是一个漫长的过程。然后，我会对自己的心说：‘这是一个令人信服的证据——如果你愿意看到它，或者坦诚地承认它的话——他并不关心你。如果他对你的想法只有你对他的一半，那么他会在这之前设法多次见到你：你必须通过咨询自己的感受来知道这一点。因此，别再胡说八道了：你没有希望了：立即从你的脑海中消除这些有害的想法和愚蠢的愿望，转向你自己的责任，以及摆在你面前的沉闷空白的生活。你可能知道这样的幸福不适合你。

But I saw him at last. He came suddenly upon me as I was crossing a field in returning from a visit to Nancy Brown, which I had taken the opportunity of paying while Matilda Murray was riding her matchless mare. He must have heard of the heavy loss I had sustained: he expressed no sympathy, offered no condolence: but almost the first words he uttered were,—‘How is your mother?’ And this was no matter-of-course question, for I never told him that I had a mother: he must have learned the fact from others, if he knew it at all; and, besides, there was sincere goodwill, and even deep, touching, unobtrusive sympathy in the tone and manner of the inquiry. I thanked him with due civility, and told him she was as well as could be expected. ‘What will she do?’ was the next question. Many would have deemed it an impertinent one, and given an evasive reply; but such an idea never entered my head, and I gave a brief but plain statement of my mother’s plans and prospects.
但我终于看到了他。当我拜访南希·布朗回来时，他突然向我走来，我趁着玛蒂尔达·默里骑着她无与伦比的母马的机会付了钱。他一定听说过我遭受的重大损失：他没有表示同情，没有表示哀悼：但他说的第一句话几乎是——“你母亲怎么样？”这不是理所当然的问题，因为我从来没有告诉过他我有一个母亲：如果他知道的话，他一定是从别人那里得知这个事实的。此外，询问的语气和方式中流露出真诚的善意，甚至是深沉的、感人的、不引人注目的同情。我以应有的礼貌向他表示感谢，并告诉他她一切都很好。 “她会做什么？”是下一个问题。许多人会认为这是无礼的，并给出了闪烁其辞的答复。但我脑子里从来没有这样的想法，我简短而平实地陈述了母亲的计划和前景。

‘Then you will leave this place shortly?’ said he.
“那你很快就会离开这个地方吗？”他说道。

‘Yes, in a month.’
“是的，一个月后。”

He paused a minute, as if in thought. When he spoke again, I hoped it would be to express his concern at my departure; but it was only to say,—‘I should think you will be willing enough to go?’
他停顿了一分钟，像是在沉思。当他再次开口时，我希望是表达他对我离开的担忧；但它只是说：“我想你会愿意去吗？”

‘Yes—for some things,’ I replied.
“是的——对于某些事情，”我回答道。

‘For SOME things only—I wonder what should make you regret it?’
“只是为了某些事情——我想知道什么会让你后悔？”

I was annoyed at this in some degree; because it embarrassed me: I had only one reason for regretting it; and that was a profound secret, which he had no business to trouble me about.
我对此在某种程度上感到恼火。因为这让我感到尴尬：我后悔的理由只有一个；这是一个深刻的秘密，他没有必要为此来困扰我。

‘Why,’ said I—‘why should you suppose that I dislike the place?’
“为什么，”我说——“你为什么认为我不喜欢这个地方？”

‘You told me so yourself,’ was the decisive reply. ‘You said, at least, that you could not live contentedly, without a friend; and that you had no friend here, and no possibility of making one—and, besides, I know you MUST dislike it.’
“你自己告诉我的。”这是果断的回答。 “至少你说过，没有朋友你就无法幸福地生活；你在这里没有朋友，也不可能结交朋友——而且，我知道你一定不喜欢它。

‘But if you remember rightly, I said, or meant to say, I could not live contentedly without a friend in the world: I was not so unreasonable as to require one always near me. I think I could be happy in a house full of enemies, if—‘ but no; that sentence must not be continued—I paused, and hastily added,—‘And, besides, we cannot well leave a place where we have lived for two or three years, without some feeling of regret.’
“但如果你没记错的话，我说过，或者说，如果世界上没有一个朋友，我就无法心满意足地生活：我并没有无理取闹地要求一个朋友永远在我身边。我想我在一个充满敌人的房子里会很幸福，如果——’但是不行；这句话不能再继续下去了——我停顿了一下，急忙补充道——“此外，我们不可能离开一个我们已经住了两三年的地方而不感到遗憾。”

‘Will you regret to part with Miss Murray, your sole remaining pupil and companion?’
“你会后悔与你唯一剩下的学生和同伴默里小姐分开吗？”

‘I dare say I shall in some degree: it was not without sorrow I parted with her sister.’
“我敢说我会在某种程度上做到这一点：我与她妹妹分开时并非没有悲伤。”

‘I can imagine that.’
“我能想象得到。”

‘Well, Miss Matilda is quite as good—better in one respect.’
“嗯，玛蒂尔达小姐也同样优秀——在某一方面更好。”

‘What is that?’
'那是什么？'

‘She’s honest.’
“她很诚实。”

‘And the other is not?’
“另一个不是吗？”

‘I should not call her DIShonest; but it must be confessed she’s a little artful.’
“我不应该称她不诚实；但必须承认她有点狡猾。

‘ARTFUL is she?—I saw she was giddy and vain—and now,’ he added, after a pause, ‘I can well believe she was artful too; but so excessively so as to assume an aspect of extreme simplicity and unguarded openness. Yes,’ continued he, musingly, ‘that accounts for some little things that puzzled me a trifle before.’
“她很狡猾吗？——我看到她轻浮而虚荣——现在，”他停顿了一下，补充道，“我完全可以相信她也很狡猾；我知道她很聪明。”但过于夸张，以至于呈现出极其简单和毫无防备的开放性。是的，”他若有所思地继续说道，“这解释了一些以前让我有点困惑的小事情。”

After that, he turned the conversation to more general subjects. He did not leave me till we had nearly reached the park-gates: he had certainly stepped a little out of his way to accompany me so far, for he now went back and disappeared down Moss Lane, the entrance of which we had passed some time before. Assuredly I did not regret this circumstance: if sorrow had any place in my heart, it was that he was gone at last—that he was no longer walking by my side, and that that short interval of delightful intercourse was at an end. He had not breathed a word of love, or dropped one hint of tenderness or affection, and yet I had been supremely happy. To be near him, to hear him talk as he did talk, and to feel that he thought me worthy to be so spoken to—capable of understanding and duly appreciating such discourse—was enough.
之后，他把话题转向了更普遍的话题。直到我们快要到达公园门口时，他才离开我：到目前为止，他确实有点不方便地陪我，因为他现在回去了，消失在莫斯巷，我们已经经过了莫斯巷的入口。之前的时间。当然，我并不为这种情况感到遗憾：如果说悲伤在我心中占有一席之地，那就是他终于走了——他不再走在我身边，那段短暂的愉快的交往结束了。他没有说过一句爱的话，也没有流露出一丝温柔或感情，但我却感到无比幸福。靠近他，听他说话，感觉他认为我值得与他交谈——能够理解并适当欣赏这样的谈话——就足够了。

‘Yes, Edward Weston, I could indeed be happy in a house full of enemies, if I had but one friend, who truly, deeply, and faithfully loved me; and if that friend were you—though we might be far apart—seldom to hear from each other, still more seldom to meet— though toil, and trouble, and vexation might surround me, still—it would be too much happiness for me to dream of! Yet who can tell,’ said I within myself, as I proceeded up the park,—‘who can tell what this one month may bring forth? I have lived nearly threeand-twenty years, and I have suffered much, and tasted little pleasure yet; is it likely my life all through will be so clouded? Is it not possible that God may hear my prayers, disperse these gloomy shadows, and grant me some beams of heaven’s sunshine yet? Will He entirely deny to me those blessings which are so freely given to others, who neither ask them nor acknowledge them when received? May I not still hope and trust? I did hope and trust for a while: but, alas, alas! the time ebbed away: one week followed another, and, excepting one distant glimpse and two transient meetings—during which scarcely anything was said—while I was walking with Miss Matilda, I saw nothing of him: except, of course, at church.
“是的，爱德华·韦斯顿，如果我有一个真正、深深、忠实地爱我的朋友，我确实可以在一个充满敌人的房子里感到幸福；如果那个朋友是你——虽然我们相隔很远——很少听到彼此的消息，更难得见面——尽管辛劳、烦恼和烦恼仍然围绕着我——对我来说，这实在是太幸福了。的梦！然而，谁又能说得清呢？”当我继续沿着公园前行时，我心里说道，“谁能说得清这一个月会发生什么？”我已经活了将近三二十年了，我受了很多苦，却尝不到什么快乐。难道我的一生就这么阴云密布吗？难道神不能垂听我的祷告，驱散这些阴暗的阴影，赐给我一些天堂的阳光吗？他是否会完全拒绝我那些如此白白地给予别人的祝福，而这些人在接受时既不询问也不承认？我难道不能仍然充满希望和信任吗？我确实曾经希望和信任过一段时间：但是，唉，唉！时间渐渐流逝：一周又一周，除了一次遥远的瞥见和两次短暂的会面——期间几乎没有说什么——当我和玛蒂尔达小姐散步时，我什么也没见到他：当然，除了在教堂。

And now, the last Sunday was come, and the last service. I was often on the point of melting into tears during the sermon—the last I was to hear from him: the best I should hear from anyone, I was well assured. It was over—the congregation were departing; and I must follow. I had then seen him, and heard his voice, too, probably for the last time. In the churchyard, Matilda was pounced upon by the two Misses Green. They had many inquiries to make about her sister, and I know not what besides. I only wished they would have done, that we might hasten back to Horton Lodge: I longed to seek the retirement of my own room, or some sequestered nook in the grounds, that I might deliver myself up to my feelingsto weep my last farewell, and lament my false hopes and vain delusions. Only this once, and then adieu to fruitless dreaming— thenceforth, only sober, solid, sad reality should occupy my mind. But while I thus resolved, a low voice close beside me said—‘I suppose you are going this week, Miss Grey?’ ‘Yes,’ I replied. I was very much startled; and had I been at all hysterically inclined, I certainly should have committed myself in some way then. Thank God, I was not.
现在，最后一个星期日到了，也是最后一次礼拜。在布道期间，我常常快要热泪盈眶——这是我最后一次听到他的声音：这是我从任何人那里听到的最好的声音，我很确定。一切都结束了——会众即将离开；我必须跟随。然后我见到了他，也听到了他的声音，这可能是最后一次。在墓地里，玛蒂尔达遭到两位格林小姐的袭击。他们有很多关于她姐姐的询问，但我不知道还有什么。我只希望他们会这么做，这样我们就可以赶紧回到霍顿旅馆：我渴望找到自己的房间，或者在花园里找个僻静的角落，这样我就可以尽情地哭泣，哭泣我最后的告别，并为我虚假的希望和徒劳的妄想而哀叹。仅限这一次，然后告别徒劳的梦想——从此，只有清醒、坚实、悲伤的现实占据我的心灵。但当我如此决定时，我身边一个低沉的声音说道：“我想你这周要去，格雷小姐？”“是的，”我回答道。我大吃一惊。如果我有歇斯底里的倾向，我当然应该以某种方式做出承诺。感谢上帝，我不是。

‘Well,’ said Mr. Weston, ‘I want to bid you good-bye—it is not likely I shall see you again before you go.’
“好吧，”韦斯顿先生说，“我想向你道别——在你走之前我不太可能再见到你。”

‘Good-bye, Mr. Weston,’ I said. Oh, how I struggled to say it calmly! I gave him my hand. He retained it a few seconds in his.
“再见，韦斯顿先生，”我说。哦，我多么费劲才能平静地说出这句话！我把手递给他。他把它保留了几秒钟。

‘It is possible we may meet again,’ said he; ‘will it be of any consequence to you whether we do or not?’
“我们可能会再次见面，”他说。 “我们做与不做对你有什么影响吗？”

‘Yes, I should be very glad to see you again.’
“是的，我应该很高兴再次见到你。”

I COULD say no less. He kindly pressed my hand, and went. Now, I was happy again—though more inclined to burst into tears than ever. If I had been forced to speak at that moment, a succession of sobs would have inevitably ensued; and as it was, I could not keep the water out of my eyes. I walked along with Miss Murray, turning aside my face, and neglecting to notice several successive remarks, till she bawled out that I was either deaf or stupid; and then (having recovered my self-possession), as one awakened from a fit of abstraction, I suddenly looked up and asked what she had been saying.
我可以说不少。他亲切地握住我的手，然后就走了。现在，我又高兴起来了——尽管比以前更容易流泪。如果我当时被迫说话，我将不可避免地发出一连串的抽泣。事实上，我无法阻止水流进我的眼睛。我和默里小姐一起走，把脸转向一边，没有注意到连续的几句话，直到她大声嚷嚷说我要么聋了，要么傻了；然后（恢复了镇定），当我从一阵恍惚中清醒过来时，我突然抬起头来，问她刚才在说什么。

CHAPTER XXI—THE SCHOOL
第二十一章——学校

I left Horton Lodge, and went to join my mother in our new abode at A-. I found her well in health, resigned in spirit, and even cheerful, though subdued and sober, in her general demeanour. We had only three boarders and half a dozen day-pupils to commence with; but by due care and diligence we hoped ere long to increase the number of both.
我离开了霍顿旅馆，去我们位于 A- 的新住处与我母亲会合。我发现她身体很好，精神上顺从，甚至在她的整体举止中虽然压抑和清醒，但还是快乐的。我们一开始只有三名寄宿生和六名走读生。但通过应有的谨慎和勤勉，我们希望很快就能增加两者的数量。

I set myself with befitting energy to discharge the duties of this new mode of life. I call it NEW, for there was, indeed, a considerable difference between working with my mother in a school of our own, and working as a hireling among strangers, despised and trampled upon by old and young; and for the first few weeks I was by no means unhappy. ‘It is possible we may meet again,’ and ‘will it be of any consequence to you whether we do or not?’—Those words still rang in my ear and rested on my heart: they were my secret solace and support. ‘I shall see him again.—He will come; or he will write.’ No promise, in fact, was too bright or too extravagant for Hope to whisper in my ear. I did not believe half of what she told me: I pretended to laugh at it all; but I was far more credulous than I myself supposed; otherwise, why did my heart leap up when a knock was heard at the front door, and the maid, who opened it, came to tell my mother a gentleman wished to see her? and why was I out of humour for the rest of the day, because it proved to be a music-master come to offer his services to our school? and what stopped my breath for a moment, when the postman having brought a couple of letters, my mother said, ‘Here, Agnes, this is for you,’ and threw one of them to me? and what made the hot blood rush into my face when I saw it was directed in a gentleman’s hand? and why—oh! why did that cold, sickening sense of disappointment fall upon me, when I had torn open the cover and found it was ONLY a letter from Mary, which, for some reason or other, her husband had directed for her?
我给自己设置了适当的精力来履行这种新生活方式的职责。我称其为“新”，因为在我们自己的学校里和母亲一起工作，与在陌生人中当雇工，受到老老少少的鄙视和践踏之间存在着很大的区别。最初的几周我一点也不高兴。 “我们有可能再次见面”、“无论我们见面与否，对你有什么影响吗？”——这些话至今仍然在我耳边响起，驻留在我的心上：它们是我秘密的安慰和支持。 “我会再次见到他。——他会来；事实上，没有任何承诺对霍普来说是太光明正大或太奢侈的，以至于无法在我耳边低语。她告诉我的话我一半都不相信：我假装笑了；我假装笑了。但我比我自己想象的要轻信得多。不然，为什么当听到前门有人敲门，开门的女仆来告诉我母亲有一位绅士要见她时，我的心会跳动呢？为什么我一整天都没有幽默感，因为事实证明是一位音乐大师来为我们学校提供服务？当邮递员送来几封信时，我母亲说：“给你，艾格尼丝，这是给你的，”然后把其中一封扔给我，这让我的呼吸暂停了片刻？当我看到它出自一位绅士之手时，是什么让我热血沸腾？为什么——哦！当我撕开封面，发现这只是玛丽的一封信，而这封信出于某种原因是她的丈夫写给她的时，为什么那种冰冷、令人作呕的失望感降临在我身上呢？

Was it then come to this—that I should be DISAPPOINTED to receive a letter from my only sister: and because it was not written by a comparative stranger? Dear Mary! and she had written it so kindlyand thinking I should be so pleased to have it!—I was not worthy to read it! And I believe, in my indignation against myself, I should have put it aside till I had schooled myself into a better frame of mind, and was become more deserving of the honour and privilege of its perusal: but there was my mother looking on, and wishful to know what news it contained; so I read it and delivered it to her, and then went into the schoolroom to attend to the pupils: but amidst the cares of copies and sums—in the intervals of correcting errors here, and reproving derelictions of duty there, I was inwardly taking myself to task with far sterner severity. ‘What a fool you must be,’ said my head to my heart, or my sterner to my softer self;—‘how could you ever dream that he would write to you? What grounds have you for such a hope—or that he will see you, or give himself any trouble about you—or even think of you again?’ ‘What grounds?’—and then Hope set before me that last, short interview, and repeated the words I had so faithfully treasured in my memory. ‘Well, and what was there in that?—Who ever hung his hopes upon so frail a twig? What was there in those words that any common acquaintance might not say to another? Of course, it was possible you might meet again: he might have said so if you had been going to New Zealand; but that did not imply any INTENTION of seeing you—and then, as to the question that followed, anyone might ask that: and how did you answer?—Merely with a stupid, commonplace reply, such as you would have given to Master Murray, or anyone else you had been on tolerably civil terms with.’ ‘But, then,’ persisted Hope, ‘the tone and manner in which he spoke.’ ‘Oh, that is nonsense! he always speaks impressively; and at that moment there were the Greens and Miss Matilda Murray just before, and other people passing by, and he was obliged to stand close beside you, and to speak very low, unless he wished everybody to hear what he said, which—though it was nothing at all particular—of course, he would rather not.’ But then, above all, that emphatic, yet gentle pressure of the hand, which seemed to say, ‘TRUST me;’ and many other things besides—too delightful, almost too flattering, to be repeated even to one’s self. ‘Egregious folly—too absurd to require contradiction—mere inventions of the imagination, which you ought to be ashamed of. If you would but consider your own unattractive exterior, your unamiable reserve, your foolish diffidence—which must make you appear cold, dull, awkward, and perhaps ill-tempered too;—if you had but rightly considered these from the beginning, you would never have harboured such presumptuous thoughts: and now that you have been so foolish, pray repent and amend, and let us have no more of it!’
难道我会因为收到我唯一的妹妹的来信而感到失望吗？因为这封信不是由一个相对陌生的人写的？亲爱的玛丽！她写得如此友善，并认为我应该很高兴拥有它！——我不值得读它！我相信，在我对自己的愤慨中，我应该把它放在一边，直到我把自己训练成更好的心态，并且变得更值得阅读它的荣誉和特权：但是我的母亲在看着，并希望知道其中包含什么新闻；于是我读了它并交给她，然后走进教室去照顾学生：但在抄写和算术的烦恼中——在这儿改正错误，在那里责备失职的间隙，我内心深处我自己以更加严厉的态度来完成任务。 “你一定是个傻瓜，”我的头脑对我的心说，或者我的严厉对我柔软的自我说；“你怎么能想到他会给你写信呢？你有什么理由抱有这样的希望——或者他会见到你，或者为你找麻烦——或者甚至再次想起你？”“什么理由？”——然后霍普把最后一次简短的采访摆在我面前，并重复了我牢牢珍藏在记忆中的话。 “好吧，那里面有什么？——谁曾把希望寄托在如此脆弱的树枝上？这句话里有什么是普通熟人不会对别人说的？当然，你们有可能再次见面：如果你去新西兰，他可能会这么说；但这并不意味着有任何见到你的意图——然后，至于接下来的问题，任何人都可能会问：你怎么回答？——只是用一个愚蠢的、平常的回答，就像你对默里少爷或其他任何与你保持着还算文明关系的人的回答一样。”“但是，”霍普坚持说，“他说话的语气和方式” “哦，那是胡说八道！他说话总是令人印象深刻；就在那一刻，绿党和玛蒂尔达·默里小姐就在前面，还有其他人经过，他不得不站在你旁边，说话很低声，除非他希望每个人都听到他说的话，尽管——没什么特别的——当然，他不愿意。”但是，最重要的是，那只手有力而温柔的压力，似乎在说，“相信我”；除此之外，还有许多其他事情——太令人愉快了。 ，几乎太讨人喜欢了，甚至无法对自己重复。 “极其愚蠢——​​太荒谬了，不需要反驳——纯粹是想象力的发明，你应该为此感到羞耻。”如果你想一想你自己不讨人喜欢的外表，你不友善的矜持，你愚蠢的羞怯——这一定会让你显得冷漠、迟钝、笨拙，也许还脾气暴躁；——如果你从一开始就正确地考虑了这些，你就会从来没有抱有过如此自以为是的想法：现在你已经如此愚蠢了，祈祷悔改并改过自新，让我们不再有这样的事情！’

I cannot say that I implicitly obeyed my own injunctions: but such reasoning as this became more and more effective as time wore on, and nothing was seen or heard of Mr. Weston; until, at last, I gave up hoping, for even my heart acknowledged it was all in vain. But still, I would think of him: I would cherish his image in my mind; and treasure every word, look, and gesture that my memory could retain; and brood over his excellences and his peculiarities, and, in fact, all I had seen, heard, or imagined respecting him.
我不能说我绝对遵守了自己的命令：但随着时间的推移，这样的推理变得越来越有效，而且再也没有看到或听到韦斯顿先生的踪影。直到最后，我放弃了希望，因为连我的心都承认这一切都是徒劳的。但我还是会想起他：我会珍惜他在我心目中的形象；珍惜记忆中的每一句话、每一个眼神、每一个动作；沉思于他的优点和特点，事实上，我所看到的、听到的或想象的所有关于他的事情。

‘Agnes, this sea air and change of scene do you no good, I think: I never saw you look so wretched. It must be that you sit too much, and allow the cares of the schoolroom to worry you. You must learn to take things easy, and to be more active and cheerful; you must take exercise whenever you can get it, and leave the most tiresome duties to me: they will only serve to exercise my patience, and, perhaps, try my temper a little.’
“艾格尼丝，这大海的空气和环境的变化对你没有好处，我想：我从来没有见过你看起来如此可怜。一定是你坐得太久了，让教室里的事情让你担心了。你要学会把事情从容，变得更积极、更开朗；你必须一有机会就锻炼身体，把最累人的事留给我：它们只会锻炼我的耐心，也许还能考验一下我的脾气。

So said my mother, as we sat at work one morning during the Easter holidays. I assured her that my employments were not at all oppressive; that I was well; or, if there was anything amiss, it would be gone as soon as the trying months of spring were over: when summer came I should be as strong and hearty as she could wish to see me: but inwardly her observation startled me. I knew my strength was declining, my appetite had failed, and I was grown listless and desponding;—and if, indeed, he could never care for me, and I could never see him more—if I was forbidden to minister to his happiness—forbidden, for ever, to taste the joys of love, to bless, and to be blessed—then, life must be a burden, and if my heavenly Father would call me away, I should be glad to rest. But it would not do to die and leave my mother. Selfish, unworthy daughter, to forget her for a moment! Was not her happiness committed in a great measure to my charge?—and the welfare of our young pupils too? Should I shrink from the work that God had set before me, because it was not fitted to my taste? Did not He know best what I should do, and where I ought to labour?—and should I long to quit His service before I had finished my task, and expect to enter into His rest without having laboured to earn it? ‘No; by His help I will arise and address myself diligently to my appointed duty. If happiness in this world is not for me, I will endeavour to promote the welfare of those around me, and my reward shall be hereafter.’ So said I in my heart; and from that hour I only permitted my thoughts to wander to Edward Weston—or at least to dwell upon him now and then—as a treat for rare occasions: and, whether it was really the approach of summer or the effect of these good resolutions, or the lapse of time, or all together, tranquillity of mind was soon restored; and bodily health and vigour began likewise, slowly, but surely, to return.
复活节假期的一天早上，当我们坐在工作岗位上时，母亲如此说道。我向她保证我的工作一点也不压抑；我很好；或者，如果有什么不对劲，一旦春天的艰难月份结束，它就会消失：当夏天来临时，我应该像她希望看到的那样坚强和热情：但内心深处她的观察使我震惊。我知道我的体力正在衰退，我的胃口减退，我变得无精打采、沮丧；——事实上，如果他永远不能关心我，我也永远不能再见到他——如果我被禁止为他的幸福服务——永远禁止品尝爱、祝福和被祝福的喜悦——那么，生活一定是一种负担，如果我的天父召唤我离开，我会很高兴休息。但死后离开母亲是不行的。自私、不配的女儿，就暂时忘记她吧！难道她的幸福在很大程度上不是由我负责吗？——还有我们年轻学生的福祉？我是否应该因为上帝摆在我面前的工作不合我的口味而回避它？难道他不是最清楚我应该做什么，应该在哪里劳苦吗？——我是否应该在完成我的任务之前就渴望停止对他的服务，并期望不劳而获就能进入他的安息呢？ '不;在他的帮助下，我将起身并努力履行我指定的职责。如果这个世界上的幸福不属于我，我会努力促进周围人的福祉，我的回报将在来世。’我心里这么说；从那时起，我只允许自己的思绪徘徊在爱德华·韦斯顿身上——或者至少时不时地想起他——作为罕见场合的一种享受：而且，无论是真的夏天即将来临还是这些美好决心的影响，或者时间的流逝，或者总之，心灵很快就恢复了平静；身体的健康和活力也开始慢慢地但肯定地恢复。

Early in June, I received a letter from Lady Ashby, late Miss Murray. She had written to me twice or thrice before, from the different stages of her bridal tour, always in good spirits, and professing to be very happy. I wondered every time that she had not forgotten me, in the midst of so much gaiety and variety of scene. At length, however, there was a pause; and it seemed she had forgotten me, for upwards of seven months passed away and no letter. Of course, I did not break my heart about THAT, though I often wondered how she was getting on; and when this last epistle so unexpectedly arrived, I was glad enough to receive it. It was dated from Ashby Park, where she was come to settle down at last, having previously divided her time between the continent and the metropolis. She made many apologies for having neglected me so long, assured me she had not forgotten me, and had often intended to write, &c. &c., but had always been prevented by something. She acknowledged that she had been leading a very dissipated life, and I should think her very wicked and very thoughtless; but, notwithstanding that, she thought a great deal, and, among other things, that she should vastly like to see me. ‘We have been several days here already,’ wrote she. ‘We have not a single friend with us, and are likely to be very dull. You know I never had a fancy for living with my husband like two turtles in a nest, were he the most delightful creature that ever wore a coat; so do take pity upon me and come. I suppose your Midsummer holidays commence in June, the same as other people’s; therefore you cannot plead want of time; and you must and shall come—in fact, I shall die if you don’t. I want you to visit me as a friend, and stay a long time. There is nobody with me, as I told you before, but Sir Thomas and old Lady Ashby: but you needn’t mind them—they’ll trouble us but little with their company. And you shall have a room to yourself, whenever you like to retire to it, and plenty of books to read when my company is not sufficiently amusing. I forget whether you like babies; if you do, you may have the pleasure of seeing mine—the most charming child in the world, no doubt; and all the more so, that I am not troubled with nursing itI was determined I wouldn’t be bothered with that. Unfortunately, it is a girl, and Sir Thomas has never forgiven me: but, however, if you will only come, I promise you shall be its governess as soon as it can speak; and you shall bring it up in the way it should go, and make a better woman of it than its mamma. And you shall see my poodle, too: a splendid little charmer imported from Paris: and two fine Italian paintings of great value—I forget the artist. Doubtless you will be able to discover prodigious beauties in them, which you must point out to me, as I only admire by hearsay; and many elegant curiosities besides, which I purchased at Rome and elsewhere; and, finally, you shall see my new home—the splendid house and grounds I used to covet so greatly. Alas! how far the promise of anticipation exceeds the pleasure of possession! There’s a fine sentiment! I assure you I am become quite a grave old matron: pray come, if it be only to witness the wonderful change. Write by return of post, and tell me when your vacation commences, and say that you will come the day after, and stay till the day before it closes—in mercy to
六月初，我收到一封来自阿什比夫人、已故默里小姐的来信。她以前曾在新娘旅行的不同阶段给我写过两三次信，总是精神抖擞，自称很幸福。每次我都在想，在这么多欢乐和丰富多彩的场景中，她没有忘记我。然而，最后还是停了下来。她似乎已经忘记了我，七个多月过去了，却没有收到任何信。当然，我并没有为此伤心，尽管我经常想知道她过得怎么样；当这最后一封信出人意料地到达时，我很高兴收到它。这张照片的日期是在阿什比公园，她之前在大陆和大都市之间奔波，最终来到这里定居。她为这么长时间忽视我而多次道歉，并向我保证她没有忘记我，并且经常打算写信，等等。等等，但总是被某些东西阻止。她承认她一直过着非常放荡的生活，我应该认为她非常邪恶，非常没有思想。但尽管如此，她还是想了很多，除此之外，她还非常想见我。 “我们已经在这里好几天了，”她写道。 “我们身边没有一个朋友，而且可能会很无聊。你知道我从来没有想过像两只乌龟一样和我的丈夫住在一起，他是有史以来最可爱的穿外套的生物吗？所以请怜悯我并来吧。我想你的仲夏假是从六月开始的，和其他人一样；因此你不能以缺乏时间为借口；你必须而且应该来——事实上，如果你不来，我就会死。我希望你能以朋友的身份来拜访我，并停留很长时间。 正如我之前告诉过你的，除了托马斯爵士和阿什比老太太，没有人和我在一起：但你不必介意他们——他们不会给我们带来麻烦，但有他们的陪伴。当你想退休的时候，你应该有一个属于自己的房间，当我的陪伴不够有趣时，你还有很多书可以读。我忘了你是否喜欢婴儿；如果你这样做了，你可能会很高兴看到我的孩子——毫无疑问，这是世界上最迷人的孩子；更重要的是，我不为护理它而烦恼——我决定我不会为此烦恼。不幸的是，它是一个女孩，托马斯爵士从未原谅我：但是，但是，如果你愿意来，我保证一旦它会说话，你就会成为它的家庭教师；你应该按照它应有的方式养育它，让它成为一个比它妈妈更好的女人。你还会看到我的贵宾犬：一只从巴黎进口的漂亮小精灵：还有两幅价值不菲的意大利精美画作——我忘记了艺术家。毫无疑问，您将能够在它们身上发现惊人的美丽，您必须向我指出这一点，因为我只是通过道听途说才欣赏它；除此之外，还有许多优雅的珍品，都是我在罗马和其他地方购买的。最后，你会看到我的新家——我曾经非常渴望的华丽的房子和场地。唉!期待的承诺远远超过拥有的快乐！有一种美好的情怀！我向你保证，我已经成为一位严肃的老妇人了：祈祷来吧，如果只是为了见证这奇妙的变化。 回信告诉我你的假期什么时候开始，并说你会在后一天来，一直呆到放假前一天——以怜悯

‘Yours affectionately,
‘深情的你，

‘ROSALIE ASHBY.’
“罗莎莉·阿什比。”

I showed this strange epistle to my mother, and consulted her on what I ought to do. She advised me to go; and I went—willing enough to see Lady Ashby, and her baby, too, and to do anything I could to benefit her, by consolation or advice; for I imagined she must be unhappy, or she would not have applied to me thus—but feeling, as may readily be conceived, that, in accepting the invitation, I made a great sacrifice for her, and did violence to my feelings in many ways, instead of being delighted with the honourable distinction of being entreated by the baronet’s lady to visit her as a friend. However, I determined my visit should be only for a few days at most; and I will not deny that I derived some consolation from the idea that, as Ashby Park was not very far from Horton, I might possibly see Mr. Weston, or, at least, hear something about him.
我把这封奇怪的信拿给母亲看，并请教她我应该做什么。她建议我去；我就去了——很愿意去看看阿什比夫人和她的孩子，并尽我所能，通过安慰或建议来使她受益。因为我想她一定不高兴，否则她不会这样向我提出请求——但是，正如可以想象的那样，我感觉，在接受邀请时，我为她做出了巨大的牺牲，并且在许多方面对我的感情造成了暴力。方式，而不是为受到从男爵夫人的恳求以朋友的身份拜访她的光荣荣誉而感到高兴。不过，我决定我的访问最多只能持续几天；我不否认，我从这样的想法中得到了一些安慰：由于阿什比公园离霍顿不是很远，我可能会看到韦斯顿先生，或者至少听到一些关于他的事情。

CHAPTER XXII—THE VISIT
第二十二章——访问

Ashby Park was certainly a very delightful residence. The mansion was stately without, commodious and elegant within; the park was spacious and beautiful, chiefly on account of its magnificent old trees, its stately herds of deer, its broad sheet of water, and the ancient woods that stretched beyond it: for there was no broken ground to give variety to the landscape, and but very little of that undulating swell which adds so greatly to the charm of park scenery. And so, this was the place Rosalie Murray had so longed to call her own, that she must have a share of it, on whatever terms it might be offered—whatever price was to be paid for the title of mistress, and whoever was to be her partner in the honour and bliss of such a possession! Well I am not disposed to censure her now.
阿什比公园无疑是一个非常令人愉快的住所。这座宅邸外部富丽堂皇，内部宽敞典雅。公园宽敞而美丽，主要是因为它有雄伟的古树，庄严的鹿群，宽阔的水域，以及延伸到公园之外的古老树林：因为没有破碎的土地使景观变得多样化，但很少有起伏的海浪，而这极大地增加了公园风景的魅力。所以，这就是罗莎莉·默里如此渴望拥有的地方，她必须分享它，无论提出什么条件——无论为情妇的头衔付出什么代价，无论谁要拥有它。成为她的伙伴，享受这样的财产的荣誉和幸福！好吧，我现在不想谴责她。

She received me very kindly; and, though I was a poor clergyman’s daughter, a governess, and a schoolmistress, she welcomed me with unaffected pleasure to her home; and—what surprised me rather— took some pains to make my visit agreeable. I could see, it is true, that she expected me to be greatly struck with the magnificence that surrounded her; and, I confess, I was rather annoyed at her evident efforts to reassure me, and prevent me from being overwhelmed by so much grandeur—too much awed at the idea of encountering her husband and mother-in-law, or too much ashamed of my own humble appearance. I was not ashamed of it at all; for, though plain, I had taken good care not to shabby or mean, and should have been pretty considerably at my ease, if my condescending hostess had not taken such manifest pains to make me so; and, as for the magnificence that surrounded her, nothing that met my eyes struck me or affected me half so much as her own altered appearance. Whether from the influence of fashionable dissipation, or some other evil, a space of little more than twelve months had had the effect that might be expected from as many years, in reducing the plumpness of her form, the freshness of her complexion, the vivacity of her movements, and the exuberance of her spirits.
她非常友善地接待了我。尽管我是一名贫穷牧师的女儿、一名家庭教师和一名女教师，她却以一种自然而然的高兴之情欢迎我来到她家。令我惊讶的是，我花了一些功夫才使我的访问愉快。确实，我看得出来，她希望我会对她周围的壮丽景色感到震惊。而且，我承认，我对她明显的努力让我放心感到相当恼火，并阻止我被如此宏伟的事物所压倒——对遇到她的丈夫和婆婆的想法太敬畏，或者太羞愧我自己卑微的外表。我一点也不为此感到羞耻。因为，虽然我很朴素，但我已经很小心地避免了寒酸或卑鄙，如果我的居高临下的女主人没有采取如此明显的努力让我如此，我应该相当轻松。至于她周围的壮丽景色，没有什么比她自己改变的外表更让我震惊或感动的了。无论是受到时尚放纵的影响，还是其他罪恶的影响，短短十二个月多一点的时间，就产生了多年以来所预期的效果，减少了她体形的丰满度、肤色的新鲜度和活力。她的动作和她的精神旺盛。

I wished to know if she was unhappy; but I felt it was not my province to inquire: I might endeavour to win her confidence; but, if she chose to conceal her matrimonial cares from me, I would trouble her with no obtrusive questions. I, therefore, at first, confined myself to a few general inquiries about her health and welfare, and a few commendations on the beauty of the park, and of the little girl that should have been a boy: a small delicate infant of seven or eight weeks old, whom its mother seemed to regard with no remarkable degree of interest or affection, though full as much as I expected her to show.
我想知道她是否不开心；但我觉得我无权去询问：我可以努力赢得她的信任；但是，如果她选择对我隐瞒她对婚姻的担忧，我不会问任何唐突的问题来打扰她。因此，一开始我只对她的健康和福利进行了一些一般性的询问，并对公园的美丽以及本应是男孩的小女孩进行了一些赞扬：一个七岁左右的娇嫩婴儿。八周大了，它的母亲似乎对她没有什么特别的兴趣或感情，尽管正如我所期望的那样，她很满足。

Shortly after my arrival, she commissioned her maid to conduct me to my room and see that I had everything I wanted; it was a small, unpretending, but sufficiently comfortable apartment. When I descended thence—having divested myself of all travelling encumbrances, and arranged my toilet with due consideration for the feelings of my lady hostess, she conducted me herself to the room I was to occupy when I chose to be alone, or when she was engaged with visitors, or obliged to be with her mother-in-law, or otherwise prevented, as she said, from enjoying the pleasure of my society. It was a quiet, tidy little sitting-room; and I was not sorry to be provided with such a harbour of refuge.
我到达后不久，她就委托她的女仆带我到我的房间，看看我是否拥有了我想要的一切。这是一套小而朴素但足够舒适的公寓。当我从那里下来时，我已经摆脱了所有旅行的负担，并充分考虑了女主人的感受，安排了我的厕所，当我选择独自一人时，或者当她独自一人时，她亲自带我到我要住的房间。与访客交往，或被迫与她的婆婆在一起，或以其他方式阻止，正如她所说，享受与我交往的乐趣。这是一间安静、整洁的小客厅。我并不为拥有这样一个避难所而感到遗憾。

‘And some time,’ said she, ‘I will show you the library: I never examined its shelves, but, I daresay, it is full of wise books; and you may go and burrow among them whenever you please. And now you shall have some tea—it will soon be dinner-time, but I thought, as you were accustomed to dine at one, you would perhaps like better to have a cup of tea about this time, and to dine when we lunch: and then, you know, you can have your tea in this room, and that will save you from having to dine with Lady Ashby and Sir Thomas: which would be rather awkward—at least, not awkward, but rather— a—you know what I mean. I thought you mightn’t like it so well— especially as we may have other ladies and gentlemen to dine with us occasionally.’
“有一天，”她说，“我会带你去图书馆：我从来没有检查过它的书架，但是，我敢说，里面装满了智慧的书籍；只要你愿意，你就可以在它们中间挖洞。现在你该喝点茶了——很快就到了晚餐时间，但我想，由于你习惯了在一个地方吃饭，你也许更想在这个时候喝杯茶，然后在我们吃午饭的时候一起吃饭。 ：然后，你知道，你可以在这个房间里喝茶，这样你就不用和阿什比夫人和托马斯爵士一起吃饭了：那会很尴尬——至少不是尴尬，而是——一个——你明白我的意思了吗。我想你可能不太喜欢它——尤其是因为我们偶尔可能会有其他女士和先生来和我们一起吃饭。

‘Certainly,’ said I, ‘I would much rather have it as you say, and, if you have no objection, I should prefer having all my meals in this room.’
“当然，”我说，“我更愿意像你说的那样，而且，如果你不反对的话，我更愿意在这个房间里吃所有的饭菜。”

‘Why so?’
'为什么这样？'

‘Because, I imagine, it would be more agreeable to Lady Ashby and Sir Thomas.’
“因为，我想，这对阿什比夫人和托马斯爵士来说会更合适。”

‘Nothing of the kind.’
“不是这样的。”

‘At any rate it would be more agreeable to me.’
“无论如何，这对我来说会更合适。”

She made some faint objections, but soon conceded; and I could see that the proposal was a considerable relief to her.
她提出了一些微弱的反对意见，但很快就承认了。我看得出来这个提议让她松了一口气。

‘Now, come into the drawing-room,’ said she. ‘There’s the dressing bell; but I won’t go yet: it’s no use dressing when there’s no one to see you; and I want to have a little discourse.’
“现在，到客厅来吧，”她说。 “这是更衣铃；但我还不走：没人看见你穿衣服也没用；我想谈谈。

The drawing-room was certainly an imposing apartment, and very elegantly furnished; but I saw its young mistress glance towards me as we entered, as if to notice how I was impressed by the spectacle, and accordingly I determined to preserve an aspect of stony indifference, as if I saw nothing at all remarkable. But this was only for a moment: immediately conscience whispered, ‘Why should I disappoint her to save my pride? No—rather let me sacrifice my pride to give her a little innocent gratification.’ And I honestly looked round, and told her it was a noble room, and very tastefully furnished. She said little, but I saw she was pleased.
客厅确实是一间富丽堂皇的公寓，布置得非常优雅。但当我们进去时，我看到它的年轻女主人朝我看了一眼，仿佛注意到我对这一景象印象深刻，因此我决定保持冷漠的一面，好像我没有看到任何值得注意的事情。但这只是一瞬间的事：良心立即低声说道：“我为什么要让她失望来拯救我的自尊呢？”不，不如让我牺牲我的自尊，给她一点天真的满足。”我诚实地环顾四周，告诉她这是一个高贵的房间，布置得很有品味。她虽然话不多，但我看出她很高兴。

She showed me her fat French poodle, that lay curled up on a silk cushion, and the two fine Italian paintings: which, however, she would not give me time to examine, but, saying I must look at them some other day, insisted upon my admiring the little jewelled watch she had purchased in Geneva; and then she took me round the room to point out sundry articles of vertu she had brought from Italy: an elegant little timepiece, and several busts, small graceful figures, and vases, all beautifully carved in white marble. She spoke of these with animation, and heard my admiring comments with a smile of pleasure: that soon, however, vanished, and was followed by a melancholy sigh; as if in consideration of the insufficiency of all such baubles to the happiness of the human heart, and their woeful inability to supply its insatiate demands.
她给我看了她那只蜷缩在丝质坐垫上的肥胖法国贵宾犬，还有两幅精美的意大利画作：然而，她不给我时间仔细看，而是坚持说我改天一定要看看它们。当我欣赏她在日内瓦购买的镶有宝石的小手表时；然后她带我在房间里转了一圈，指给我看她从意大利带来的各种 Vertu 物品：一个优雅的小计时器，几个半身像，优雅的小人物和花瓶，所有这些都是用白色大理石雕刻而成的。她充满活力地谈论这些，听到我钦佩的评论时带着愉快的微笑：然而，很快，这种微笑就消失了，随之而来的是一声忧郁的叹息。仿佛考虑到所有这些小玩意对于人类心灵的幸福来说是不够的，而且它们可悲地无法满足其永不满足的需求。

Then, stretching herself upon a couch, she motioned me to a capacious easy-chair that stood opposite—not before the fire, but before a wide open window; for it was summer, be it remembered; a sweet, warm evening in the latter half of June. I sat for a moment in silence, enjoying the still, pure air, and the delightful prospect of the park that lay before me, rich in verdure and foliage, and basking in yellow sunshine, relieved by the long shadows of declining day. But I must take advantage of this pause: I had inquiries to make, and, like the substance of a lady’s postscript, the most important must come last. So I began with asking after Mr. and Mrs. Murray, and Miss Matilda and the young gentlemen.
然后，她在沙发上伸了个懒腰，示意我坐在对面的一张宽敞的安乐椅上——不是在火前，而是在一扇大开的窗户前；请记住，那是夏天；六月下半月一个甜蜜温暖的夜晚。我静静地坐了一会儿，享受着宁静、纯净的空气，欣赏着眼前公园的宜人景色，那里绿树成荫，沐浴在黄色的阳光下，在夕阳的长长阴影下，心情得到了缓解。但我必须利用这个停顿：我有一些询问要做，而且，就像一位女士附言的实质内容一样，最重要的必须放在最后。于是我开始询问默里先生和夫人、玛蒂尔达小姐和年轻先生们的情况。

I was told that papa had the gout, which made him very ferocious; and that he would not give up his choice wines, and his substantial dinners and suppers, and had quarrelled with his physician, because the latter had dared to say that no medicine could cure him while he lived so freely; that mamma and the rest were well. Matilda was still wild and reckless, but she had got a fashionable governess, and was considerably improved in her manners, and soon to be introduced to the world; and John and Charles (now at home for the holidays) were, by all accounts, ‘fine, bold, unruly, mischievous boys.’
有人告诉我，爸爸患有痛风，这使得他变得非常凶猛。他不愿意放弃他的美酒和丰盛的晚餐，并与他的医生发生了争吵，因为后者胆敢说，在他生活得如此自由的时候，没有药物可以治愈他。妈妈和其他人都很好。玛蒂尔达仍然狂野而鲁莽，但她有了一位时髦的家庭教师，她的举止有了很大的进步，很快就被介绍给这个世界了。约翰和查尔斯（现在在家过节）从各方面来看都是“优秀、大胆、不守规矩、顽皮的男孩。”

‘And how are the other people getting on?’ said I—‘the Greens, for instance?’
“其他人过得怎么样？”我说——“比如绿党？”

‘Ah! Mr. Green is heart-broken, you know,’ replied she, with a languid smile: ‘he hasn’t got over his disappointment yet, and never will, I suppose. He’s doomed to be an old bachelor; and his sisters are doing their best to get married.’
'啊！你知道，格林先生心碎了，”她带着慵懒的微笑回答道：“他还没有克服失望，我想他永远也不会。他注定是个老光棍；他的姐妹们正在尽最大努力结婚。”

‘And the Melthams?’
“梅尔瑟姆一家呢？”

‘Oh, they’re jogging on as usual, I suppose: but I know very little about any of them—except Harry,’ said she, blushing slightly, and smiling again. ‘I saw a great deal of him while we were in London; for, as soon as he heard we were there, he came up under pretence of visiting his brother, and either followed me, like a shadow, wherever I went, or met me, like a reflection, at every turn. You needn’t look so shocked, Miss Grey; I was very discreet, I assure you, but, you know, one can’t help being admired. Poor fellow! He was not my only worshipper; though he was certainly the most conspicuous, and, I think, the most devoted among them all. And that detestable—ahem—and Sir Thomas chose to take offence at him—or my profuse expenditure, or something—I don’t exactly know what—and hurried me down to the country at a moment’s notice; where I’m to play the hermit, I suppose, for life.’
“哦，我想他们像往常一样慢跑，但我对他们中的任何一个都知之甚少——除了哈利，”她说，脸微微红了，又微笑起来。 “我们在伦敦的时候，我经常见到他；因为，他一听说我们在那里，就假装要拜访他的兄弟，无论我走到哪里，他要么像影子一样跟着我，要么像倒影一样，在每个转弯处都遇见我。你不必显得如此震惊，格雷小姐；我向你保证，我非常谨慎，但是，你知道，人们情不自禁地会受到钦佩。可怜的家伙！他不是我唯一的崇拜者；他也是我唯一的崇拜者。尽管他无疑是他们中最引人注目的，而且我认为也是最忠诚的。而那个可恶的——咳咳——托马斯爵士选择对他——或者我的大笔开支，或者其他什么——我不知道是什么——感到生气，并在接到通知后立即催促我去乡下；我想我将在那里扮演一辈子的隐士。

And she bit her lip, and frowned vindictively upon the fair domain she had once so coveted to call her own.
她咬着嘴唇，对她曾经如此渴望拥有的美丽领地皱起了眉头。

‘And Mr. Hatfield,’ said I, ‘what is become of him?’
“那么哈特菲尔德先生，”我说，“他怎么样了？”

Again she brightened up, and answered gaily—‘Oh! he made up to an elderly spinster, and married her, not long since; weighing her heavy purse against her faded charms, and expecting to find that solace in gold which was denied him in love—ha, ha!’
她的神情再次焕然一新，高兴地回答道：“哦！他向一位年迈的老处女和好，不久就娶了她。掂量着她沉重的钱包和她褪色的魅力，并期望在黄金中找到他在爱情中无法得到的安慰——哈，哈！

‘Well, and I think that’s all—except Mr. Weston: what is he doing?’
“好吧，我想就这些了——除了韦斯顿先生：他在做什么？”

‘I don’t know, I’m sure. He’s gone from Horton.’
“我不知道，但我确定。他已经离开霍顿了。”

‘How long since? and where is he gone to?’
‘多久了？他去哪儿了？

‘I know nothing about him,’ replied she, yawning—‘except that he went about a month ago—I never asked where’ (I would have asked whether it was to a living or merely another curacy, but thought it better not); ‘and the people made a great rout about his leaving,’ continued she, ‘much to Mr. Hatfield’s displeasure; for Hatfield didn’t like him, because he had too much influence with the common people, and because he was not sufficiently tractable and submissive to him—and for some other unpardonable sins, I don’t know what. But now I positively must go and dress: the second bell will ring directly, and if I come to dinner in this guise, I shall never hear the end of it from Lady Ashby. It’s a strange thing one can’t be mistress in one’s own house! Just ring the bell, and I’ll send for my maid, and tell them to get you some tea. Only think of that intolerable woman—‘
“我对他一无所知，”她打着哈欠回答道——“除了他大约一个月前去了——我从来没有问过去哪里”（我本想问是为了谋生还是只是为了另一个牧师，但我认为最好不要） ; “人们对他的离开发起了猛烈的攻击，”她继续说道，“这让哈特菲尔德先生很不高兴。因为哈特菲尔德不喜欢他，因为他对老百姓影响太大，也因为他对他不够驯服和顺从——还有一些其他不可饶恕的罪过，我不知道是什么。但现在我肯定得去穿衣服了：第二个铃声会直接响起，如果我以这种方式来吃晚饭，我将永远不会从阿什比夫人那里听到它的结束。不能在自己家里当女主人，真是奇怪啊！只要按一下门铃，我就会派人去叫我的女仆，让她们给你拿点茶来。只要想想那个令人难以忍受的女人——”

‘Who—your maid?’
“谁——你的女仆？”

‘No;—my mother-in-law—and my unfortunate mistake! Instead of letting her take herself off to some other house, as she offered to do when I married, I was fool enough to ask her to live here still, and direct the affairs of the house for me; because, in the first place, I hoped we should spend the greater part of the year, in town, and in the second place, being so young and inexperienced, I was frightened at the idea of having a houseful of servants to manage, and dinners to order, and parties to entertain, and all the rest of it, and I thought she might assist me with her experience; never dreaming she would prove a usurper, a tyrant, an incubus, a spy, and everything else that’s detestable. I wish she was dead!’
“不；——我的岳母——还有我不幸的错误！我没有像我结婚时提出的那样让她搬到别的房子去，而是愚蠢地要求她仍然住在这里，并为我处理家里的事务；因为，首先，我希望我们一年中的大部分时间都在城里度过，其次，我太年轻，没有经验，一想到要管理一屋子的仆人，我就感到害怕，而且订晚餐、招待聚会，以及所有其他的事情，我想她可能会用她的经验来帮助我；做梦也没想到她会成为一个篡位者、暴君、梦魇、间谍以及其他一切令人憎恶的东西。我希望她死了！

She then turned to give her orders to the footman, who had been standing bolt upright within the door for the last half minute, and had heard the latter part of her animadversions; and, of course, made his own reflections upon them, notwithstanding the inflexible, wooden countenance he thought proper to preserve in the drawingroom. On my remarking afterwards that he must have heard her, she replied—‘Oh, no matter! I never care about the footmen; they’re mere automatons: it’s nothing to them what their superiors say or do; they won’t dare to repeat it; and as to what they think—if they presume to think at all—of course, nobody cares for that. It would be a pretty thing indeed, it we were to be tongue-tied by our servants!’
然后她转身向男仆下达命令，男仆在过去的半分钟里一直笔直地站在门内，听到了她的后半部分的怨言。当然，他也对它们做出了自己的反思，尽管他认为在客厅里保留那张僵硬、木讷的表情是合适的。后来我说他一定听到了她的话，她回答说：“哦，没关系！”我从不关心仆人；他们只是机器人：上级说什么或做什么对他们来说毫无意义；他们不敢再重蹈覆辙；至于他们的想法——如果他们真的想的话——当然，没人关心。如果我们的仆人让我们张口结舌的话，那确实是一件很美妙的事情！

So saying, she ran off to make her hasty toilet, leaving me to pilot my way back to my sitting-room, where, in due time, I was served with a cup of tea. After that, I sat musing on Lady Ashby’s past and present condition; and on what little information I had obtained respecting Mr. Weston, and the small chance there was of ever seeing or hearing anything more of him throughout my quiet, drab-colour life: which, henceforth, seemed to offer no alternative between positive rainy days, and days of dull grey clouds without downfall. At length, however, I began to weary of my thoughts, and to wish I knew where to find the library my hostess had spoken of; and to wonder whether I was to remain there doing nothing till bed-time.
说完，她就匆匆跑去上厕所，留下我独自飞回起居室，在那里，在适当的时候，有人给我倒了一杯茶。之后，我坐下来思考阿什比女士的过去和现在的状况。以及我所获得的关于韦斯顿先生的很少的信息，以及在我安静、单调的生活中看到或听到更多关于他的机会的渺茫：从今以后，除了积极的雨天之外，似乎别无选择，和没有垮台的暗灰色云的日子。然而，最终我开始厌倦了自己的想法，并希望自己知道在哪里可以找到女主人所说的图书馆；但是，我开始厌倦了自己的想法。并想知道我是否要一直呆在那里直到睡觉时间。

As I was not rich enough to possess a watch, I could not tell how time was passing, except by observing the slowly lengthening shadows from the window; which presented a side view, including a corner of the park, a clump of trees whose topmost branches had been colonized by an innumerable company of noisy rooks, and a high wall with a massive wooden gate: no doubt communicating with the stable-yard, as a broad carriage-road swept up to it from the park. The shadow of this wall soon took posession of the whole of the ground as far as I could see, forcing the golden sunlight to retreat inch by inch, and at last take refuge in the very tops of the trees. Ere long, even they were left in shadow—the shadow of the distant hills, or of the earth itself; and, in sympathy for the busy citizens of the rookery, I regretted to see their habitation, so lately bathed in glorious light, reduced to the sombre, work-aday hue of the lower world, or of my own world within. For a moment, such birds as soared above the rest might still receive the lustre on their wings, which imparted to their sable plumage the hue and brilliance of deep red gold; at last, that too departed. Twilight came stealing on; the rooks became more quiet; I became more weary, and wished I were going home to-morrow. At length it grew dark; and I was thinking of ringing for a candle, and betaking myself to bed, when my hostess appeared, with many apologies for having neglected me so long, and laying all the blame upon that ‘nasty old woman,’ as she called her mother-in-law.
由于我没有足够的钱拥有手表，所以除了观察窗外慢慢拉长的影子，我无法知道时间是如何流逝的。它呈现出侧视图，包括公园的一角，一丛树，其最高的树枝被无数吵闹的乌鸦占据，还有一堵高墙，有一扇巨大的木门：毫无疑问与马厩院子相通，一条宽阔的马路从公园延伸到这里。很快，这堵墙的影子占据了我所能看到的整个地面，迫使金色的阳光一寸寸地退去，最后躲到了树顶上。不久之后，连他们也被留在了阴影之中——远处山丘的阴影，或者大地本身的阴影；出于对栖息地忙碌居民的同情，我遗憾地看到他们的住所，最近沐浴在灿烂的光芒中，沦落为下层世界或我自己的世界的阴暗、日常的色调。有一瞬间，那些翱翔在其他鸟之上的鸟儿可能仍然会在翅膀上获得光泽，这给它们的黑貂羽毛带来了深红金色的色调和光彩；最后，它也离开了。暮色悄然而至；白嘴鸦变得更加安静了。我变得更加疲倦，希望明天就回家。终于天黑了。我正想按响蜡烛，上床睡觉，这时我的女主人出现了，她对忽视我这么久表示歉意，并把所有的责任都归咎于那个“讨厌的老太婆”，她是这样称呼她母亲的——姻亲。

‘If I didn’t sit with her in the drawing-room while Sir Thomas is taking his wine,’ said she, ‘she would never forgive me; and then, if I leave the room the instant he comes—as I have done once or twice—it is an unpardonable offence against her dear Thomas. SHE never showed such disrespect to HER husband: and as for affection, wives never think of that now-a-days, she supposes: but things were different in HER time—as if there was any good to be done by staying in the room, when he does nothing but grumble and scold when he’s in a bad humour, talk disgusting nonsense when he’s in a good one, and go to sleep on the sofa when he’s too stupid for either; which is most frequently the case now, when he has nothing to do but to sot over his wine.’
“当托马斯爵士喝酒时，如果我没有和她一起坐在客厅里，”她说，“她永远不会原谅我；然后，如果我在他一来就离开房间——就像我做过一两次一样——这对她亲爱的托马斯来说是不可原谅的冒犯。她从来没有对她的丈夫表现出如此不尊重：至于感情，现在的妻子们从来不会想到这一点，她想：但在她那个时代，情况有所不同——好像呆在房间里有什么好处一样，当他心情不好时，除了发牢骚和责骂之外什么也不做；当他心情好时，他会说一些令人作呕的废话；当他太愚蠢时，他会去沙发上睡觉；现在最常见的情况是，当他除了喝酒之外无事可做时。

‘But could you not try to occupy his mind with something better; and engage him to give up such habits? I’m sure you have powers of persuasion, and qualifications for amusing a gentleman, which many ladies would be glad to possess.’
“但是你能不能试着用更好的事情来占据他的注意力？并让他放弃这些习惯？我相信你有说服力，也有逗笑绅士的资格，这是许多女士都乐意拥有的。”

‘And so you think I would lay myself out for his amusement! No: that’s not MY idea of a wife. It’s the husband’s part to please the wife, not hers to please him; and if he isn’t satisfied with her as she is—and thankful to possess her too—he isn’t worthy of her, that’s all. And as for persuasion, I assure you I shan’t trouble myself with that: I’ve enough to do to bear with him as he is, without attempting to work a reform. But I’m sorry I left you so long alone, Miss Grey. How have you passed the time?’
“所以你认为我会为了他的娱乐而牺牲自己！”不：那不是我心目中的妻子。丈夫的职责是取悦妻子，而不是妻子的职责是取悦他。如果他对她现在的样子不满意——并且也庆幸拥有她——他就配不上她，仅此而已。至于说服，我向你保证，我不会为此烦恼：我已经足够忍受他本来的样子，而不是试图进行改革。但很抱歉我让你独自一人呆了这么久，格雷小姐。你是怎么度过这段时间的？

‘Chiefly in watching the rooks.’
“主要是观察车。”

‘Mercy, how dull you must have been! I really must show you the library; and you must ring for everything you want, just as you would in an inn, and make yourself comfortable. I have selfish reasons for wishing to make you happy, because I want you to stay with me, and not fulfil your horrid threat of running away in a day or two.’
‘慈悲，你一定是多么迟钝啊！我真的必须带你去图书馆；你必须按铃才能得到你想要的一切，就像在旅馆里一样，并让自己感到舒服。我有自私的理由希望让你快乐，因为我希望你留在我身边，而不是实现你在一两天内逃跑的可怕威胁。

‘Well, don’t let me keep you out of the drawing-room any longer tonight, for at present I am tired and wish to go to bed.’
“好吧，今晚别再让你离开客厅了，因为现在我累了，想睡觉了。”

CHAPTER XXIII—THE PARK
第二十三章——公园

I came down a little before eight, next morning, as I knew by the striking of a distant clock. There was no appearance of breakfast. I waited above an hour before it came, still vainly longing for access to the library; and, after that lonely repast was concluded, I waited again about an hour and a half in great suspense and discomfort, uncertain what to do. At length Lady Ashby came to bid me good-morning. She informed me she had only just breakfasted, and now wanted me to take an early walk with her in the park. She asked how long I had been up, and on receiving my answer, expressed the deepest regret, and again promised to show me the library. I suggested she had better do so at once, and then there would be no further trouble either with remembering or forgetting. She complied, on condition that I would not think of reading, or bothering with the books now; for she wanted to show me the gardens, and take a walk in the park with me, before it became too hot for enjoyment; which, indeed, was nearly the case already. Of course I readily assented; and we took our walk accordingly.
第二天早上八点左右，我从远处的钟声中得知，我下楼了。没有早餐的样子。我等了一个多小时才来，仍然徒劳地渴望去图书馆；在那次孤独的用餐结束后，我又在极大的悬念和不适中等待了大约一个半小时，不知道该怎么办。最后，阿什比夫人来向我道早安。她告诉我她刚刚吃过早餐，现在想让我早点和她一起去公园散步。她问我起床多久了，收到我的回答后，她表达了最深的遗憾，并再次答应带我参观图书馆。我建议她最好立即这样做，这样就不会再有记住或忘记的麻烦了。她答应了，条件是我现在不要想读书，也不要为书而烦恼。因为她想带我参观花园，并和我一起在公园里散步，以免天气变得太热而无法享受。事实上，情况已经差不多如此了。我当然爽快地答应了；我们也相应地步行了。

As we were strolling in the park, talking of what my companion had seen and heard during her travelling experience, a gentleman on horseback rode up and passed us. As he turned, in passing, and stared me full in the face, I had a good opportunity of seeing what he was like. He was tall, thin, and wasted, with a slight stoop in the shoulders, a pale face, but somewhat blotchy, and disagreeably red about the eyelids, plain features, and a general appearance of languor and flatness, relieved by a sinister expression in the mouth and the dull, soulless eyes.
当我们在公园里散步，谈论着同伴旅行的所见所闻时，一位骑马的绅士从我们身边走过。当他转过身来，注视着我的脸时，我有一个很好的机会看看他是什么样的人。他又高又瘦，骨瘦如柴，双肩微微驼背，脸色苍白，但有些斑点，眼睑泛红得令人不舒服，五官朴素，整体看上去疲倦而扁平，但脸上带着阴险的表情。嘴巴和呆滞、没有灵魂的眼睛。

‘I detest that man!’ whispered Lady Ashby, with bitter emphasis, as he slowly trotted by.
“我讨厌那个男人！”当他慢慢地小跑过去时，阿什比女士低声说道，语气中带着苦涩的强调。

‘Who is it?’ I asked, unwilling to suppose that she should so speak of her husband.
“是谁？”我问道，不愿意想象她会这样谈论她的丈夫。

‘Sir Thomas Ashby,’ she replied, with dreary composure.
“托马斯·阿什比爵士，”她沉着地回答道。

‘And do you DETEST him, Miss Murray?’ said I, for I was too much shocked to remember her name at the moment.
“默里小姐，你讨厌他吗？”我问道，因为我当时太震惊了，记不起她的名字了。

‘Yes, I do, Miss Grey, and despise him too; and if you knew him you would not blame me.’
“是的，我确实如此，格雷小姐，而且我也鄙视他；如果你认识他，你就不会责怪我。

‘But you knew what he was before you married him.’
“但在你嫁给他之前你就知道他是什么样的人。”

‘No; I only thought so: I did not half know him really. I know you warned me against it, and I wish I had listened to you: but it’s too late to regret that now. And besides, mamma ought to have known better than either of us, and she never said anything against it—quite the contrary. And then I thought he adored me, and would let me have my own way: he did pretend to do so at first, but now he does not care a bit about me. Yet I should not care for that: he might do as he pleased, if I might only be free to amuse myself and to stay in London, or have a few friends down here: but HE WILL do as he pleases, and I must be a prisoner and a slave. The moment he saw I could enjoy myself without him, and that others knew my value better than himself, the selfish wretch began to accuse me of coquetry and extravagance; and to abuse Harry Meltham, whose shoes he was not worthy to clean. And then he must needs have me down in the country, to lead the life of a nun, lest I should dishonour him or bring him to ruin; as if he had not been ten times worse every way, with his betting-book, and his gamingtable, and his opera-girls, and his Lady This and Mrs. That—yes, and his bottles of wine, and glasses of brandy-and-water too! Oh, I would give ten thousand worlds to be Mss Murray again! It is TOO bad to feel life, health, and beauty wasting away, unfelt and unenjoyed, for such a brute as that!’ exclaimed she, fairly bursting into tears in the bitterness of her vexation.
'不;我只是这么想：我对他了解还不够多。我知道你警告过我不要这样做，我希望我当时听了你的话：但现在后悔已经太晚了。此外，妈妈应该比我们更清楚，而且她从来没有说过任何反对的话——恰恰相反。然后我以为他很崇拜我，会让我为所欲为：一开始他确实是假装这样做的，但现在他一点也不关心我了。但我不应该关心这一点：如果我可以自由自娱自乐并留在伦敦，或者在这里有几个朋友，他可以为所欲为：但他会为所欲为，而我必须一个囚犯和一个奴隶。当他看到我没有他也能过得很开心，而且别人比他自己更了解我的价值时，这个自私的坏蛋就开始指责我卖弄风情、铺张浪费；并辱骂哈利·梅尔瑟姆，因为他不配给他擦鞋。然后他一定需要我到乡下去过修女的生活，以免我羞辱他或让他破产。就好像他在各方面都没有糟糕十倍，还有他的赌本、他的赌桌、他的歌剧女郎、他的这位夫人和那位夫人——是的，还有他的几瓶酒和几杯白兰地——还有水！哦，我愿意付出一万个世界来再次成为默里女士！对于这样一个畜生，生命、健康和美丽都在消逝，没有感觉，没有享受，这太糟糕了！”她大声说道，在痛苦的痛苦中几乎哭了起来。

Of course, I pitied her exceedingly; as well for her false idea of happiness and disregard of duty, as for the wretched partner with whom her fate was linked. I said what I could to comfort her, and offered such counsels as I thought she most required: advising her, first, by gentle reasoning, by kindness, example, and persuasion, to try to ameliorate her husband; and then, when she had done all she could, if she still found him incorrigible, to endeavour to abstract herself from him—to wrap herself up in her own integrity, and trouble herself as little about him as possible. I exhorted her to seek consolation in doing her duty to God and man, to put her trust in Heaven, and solace herself with the care and nurture of her little daughter; assuring her she would be amply rewarded by witnessing its progress in strength and wisdom, and receiving its genuine affection.
当然，我非常可怜她。以及她对幸福的错误观念和对责任的漠视，以及与她的命运息息相关的不幸伴侣。我尽我所能地安慰她，并提供了我认为她最需要的建议：首先，建议她​​通过温和的推理、仁慈、榜样和说服，努力改善她的丈夫；然后，当她竭尽全力后，如果她仍然发现他无可救药，就努力从他身上抽离出来——用自己的正直包裹自己，尽可能少地为他烦恼。我劝她在履行对上帝和人类的责任时寻求安慰，信赖天堂，并通过照顾和养育她的小女儿来安慰自己；向她保证，如果她见证了它在力量和智慧上的进步，并接受了它真诚的爱，她将会得到丰厚的回报。

‘But I can’t devote myself entirely to a child,’ said she; ‘it may die—which is not at all improbable.’
“但我不能把自己全部奉献给一个孩子，”她说。 “它可能会死——这并非不可能。”

‘But, with care, many a delicate infant has become a strong man or woman.’
“但是，经过精心呵护，许多娇弱的婴儿已经成为坚强的男人或女人。”

‘But it may grow so intolerably like its father that I shall hate it.’
“但它可能会变得像它的父亲一样令人难以忍受，以至于我会讨厌它。”

‘That is not likely; it is a little girl, and strongly resembles its mother.’
‘这不太可能；它是一个小女孩，非常像它的母亲。”

‘No matter; I should like it better if it were a boy—only that its father will leave it no inheritance that he can possibly squander away. What pleasure can I have in seeing a girl grow up to eclipse me, and enjoy those pleasures that I am for ever debarred from? But supposing I could be so generous as to take delight in this, still it is ONLY a child; and I can’t centre all my hopes in a child: that is only one degree better than devoting oneself to a dog. And as for all the wisdom and goodness you have been trying to instil into me—that is all very right and proper, I daresay, and if I were some twenty years older, I might fructify by it: but people must enjoy themselves when they are young; and if others won’t let them—why, they must hate them for it!’
'不管;如果它是个男孩，我会更喜欢它——只是它的父亲不会给它留下任何可以挥霍的遗产。看到一个女孩长大后让我黯然失色，并享受那些我永远无法享受的快乐，我能有什么高兴呢？但即使我能如此慷慨地对此感到高兴，那仍然只是一个孩子；我不能把所有的希望都集中在一个孩子身上：那只比把自己奉献给一只狗好一点。至于你一直试图灌输给我的所有智慧和善良——我敢说，这都是非常正确和适当的，如果我再老二十岁，我可能会因此而结出果实：但人们必须享受自己，当他们年轻的;如果其他人不让他们这么做——为什么，他们一定会因此而恨他们！

‘The best way to enjoy yourself is to do what is right and hate nobody. The end of Religion is not to teach us how to die, but how to live; and the earlier you become wise and good, the more of happiness you secure. And now, Lady Ashby, I have one more piece of advice to offer you, which is, that you will not make an enemy of your mother-in-law. Don’t get into the way of holding her at arms’ length, and regarding her with jealous distrust. I never saw her, but I have heard good as well as evil respecting her; and I imagine that, though cold and haughty in her general demeanour, and even exacting in her requirements, she has strong affections for those who can reach them; and, though so blindly attached to her son, she is not without good principles, or incapable of hearing reason. If you would but conciliate her a little, and adopt a friendly, open manner—and even confide your grievances to her— real grievances, such as you have a right to complain of—it is my firm belief that she would, in time, become your faithful friend, and a comfort and support to you, instead of the incubus you describe her.’ But I fear my advice had little effect upon the unfortunate young lady; and, finding I could render myself so little serviceable, my residence at Ashby Park became doubly painful. But still, I must stay out that day and the following one, as I had promised to do so: though, resisting all entreaties and inducements to prolong my visit further, I insisted upon departing the next morning; affirming that my mother would be lonely without me, and that she impatiently expected my return. Nevertheless, it was with a heavy heart that I bade adieu to poor Lady Ashby, and left her in her princely home. It was no slight additional proof of her unhappiness, that she should so cling to the consolation of my presence, and earnestly desire the company of one whose general tastes and ideas were so little congenial to her own—whom she had completely forgotten in her hour of prosperity, and whose presence would be rather a nuisance than a pleasure, if she could but have half her heart’s desire.
“享受自己的最好方式就是做正确的事并且不去恨任何人。宗教的目的不是教我们如何死，而是教我们如何生；你越早变得明智和善良，你就越能获得幸福。现在，阿什比女士，我还有一条建议要给你，那就是，你不要与你的婆婆为敌。不要与她保持一定的距离，并用嫉妒的不信任的眼光看待她。我从未见过她，但我听说过对她的评价有好有坏。我想，虽然她的举止冷漠而傲慢，甚至要求也很严格，但她对那些能达到这些要求的人有着强​​烈的感情；尽管她对儿子如此盲目地依恋，但她并不是没有良好的原则，也不是听不懂道理。如果你能稍微安抚她，采取友好、开放的态度——甚至向她吐露你的不满——真正的不满，比如你有权抱怨——我坚信她会及时，成为你忠实的朋友，为你提供安慰和支持，而不是你所描述的梦魇。”但我担心我的建议对这位不幸的年轻女士影响不大；而且，当我发现自己无法为自己提供任何帮助时，我在阿什比公园的住所变得更加痛苦。但是，我仍然必须在那天和第二天呆在外面，正如我所承诺的那样：尽管如此，我拒绝了所有进一步延长我的访问时间的恳求和诱惑，坚持第二天早上离开；肯定我的母亲没有我会很孤独，而且她不耐烦地期待我回来。尽管如此，我还是怀着沉重的心情告别了可怜的阿什比夫人，把她留在了王宫。 她如此执着于我的存在带来的安慰，并真诚地渴望与一个总体品味和想法与她格格不入的人为伴——她在这个时候已经完全忘记了他，这并不是她不快乐的进一步证明。如果她能得到一半的心愿的话，她的存在与其说是一种乐趣，不如说是一种烦恼。

CHAPTER XXIV—THE SANDS
第二十四章——沙子

Our school was not situated in the heart of the town: on entering A—from the north-west there is a row of respectable-looking houses, on each side of the broad, white road, with narrow slips of garden-ground before them, Venetian blinds to the windows, and a flight of steps leading to each trim, brass-handled door. In one of the largest of these habitations dwelt my mother and I, with such young ladies as our friends and the public chose to commit to our charge. Consequently, we were a considerable distance from the sea, and divided from it by a labyrinth of streets and houses. But the sea was my delight; and I would often gladly pierce the town to obtain the pleasure of a walk beside it, whether with the pupils, or alone with my mother during the vacations. It was delightful to me at all times and seasons, but especially in the wild commotion of a rough sea-breeze, and in the brilliant freshness of a summer morning.
我们的学校不在镇中心：从西北方向进入A区，看到一排看起来很体面的房子，在宽阔的白色道路两侧，前面是狭窄的花园场地窗户上有百叶窗，还有一段台阶通向每扇装饰精美的黄铜把手门。我和母亲住在这些住所中最大的一处，还有我们的朋友和公众选择负责我们的年轻女士。因此，我们距离大海相当远，并被迷宫般的街道和房屋隔开。但大海是我的快乐；我常常很乐意走进这座小镇，在它旁边享受散步的乐趣，无论是和学生们一起，还是在假期里独自和母亲一起散步。无论什么时候、什么季节，这对我来说都是令人愉快的，尤其是在汹涌的海风的狂野骚动和夏日早晨的灿烂清新中。

I awoke early on the third morning after my return from Ashby Parkthe sun was shining through the blind, and I thought how pleasant it would be to pass through the quiet town and take a solitary ramble on the sands while half the world was in bed. I was not long in forming the resolution, nor slow to act upon it. Of course I would not disturb my mother, so I stole noiselessly downstairs, and quietly unfastened the door. I was dressed and out, when the church clock struck a quarter to six. There was a feeling of freshness and vigour in the very streets; and when I got free of the town, when my foot was on the sands and my face towards the broad, bright bay, no language can describe the effect of the deep, clear azure of the sky and ocean, the bright morning sunshine on the semicircular barrier of craggy cliffs surmounted by green swelling hills, and on the smooth, wide sands, and the low rocks out at sea—looking, with their clothing of weeds and moss, like little grass-grown islands—and above all, on the brilliant, sparkling waves. And then, the unspeakable purity—and freshness of the air! There was just enough heat to enhance the value of the breeze, and just enough wind to keep the whole sea in motion, to make the waves come bounding to the shore, foaming and sparkling, as if wild with glee. Nothing else was stirring—no living creature was visible besides myself. My footsteps were the first to press the firm, unbroken sands;—nothing before had trampled them since last night’s flowing tide had obliterated the deepest marks of yesterday, and left them fair and even, except where the subsiding water had left behind it the traces of dimpled pools and little running streams.
从阿什比公园回来后的第三天早上，我很早就醒了，阳光透过百叶窗照进来，我想，当一半的世界都在床上时，穿过安静的小镇，在沙滩上独自漫步，该是多么愉快的事。我很快就做出了这个决定，也很快就付诸行动。我当然不会打扰妈妈，于是悄悄地下楼，悄悄地把门打开。当教堂的钟敲响六点一刻时，我穿好衣服出门了。街道上充满了清新和活力的感觉。当我离开小镇，当我的脚踩在沙滩上，脸朝着宽阔明亮的海湾时，没有任何语言可以描述深邃、清澈的蔚蓝天空和海洋，以及清晨明媚的阳光照射在海面上的效果。陡峭悬崖的半圆形屏障，上面覆盖着绿色隆起的山丘，还有光滑、宽阔的沙滩和海上低矮的岩石——看起来，长满杂草和苔藓的小岛——最重要的是，在绚丽、波光粼粼的波浪。然后，空气是难以形容的纯净和新鲜！有足够的热量来增强微风的价值，也有足够的风来让整个大海保持运动，让海浪拍打岸边，泛着泡沫，闪闪发光，仿佛欣喜若狂。没有其他东西在搅动——除了我自己之外，看不到任何生物。我的脚步最先踏上坚固、完整的沙地；自从昨晚的潮水冲刷掉了昨天最深的痕迹以来，没有任何东西踩过它们，留下了平坦而均匀的痕迹，除了下沉的水留下的痕迹。波光粼粼的水池和小溪流淌。

Refreshed, delighted, invigorated, I walked along, forgetting all my cares, feeling as if I had wings to my feet, and could go at least forty miles without fatigue, and experiencing a sense of exhilaration to which I had been an entire stranger since the days of early youth. About half-past six, however, the grooms began to come down to air their masters’ horses—first one, and then another, till there were some dozen horses and five or six riders: but that need not trouble me, for they would not come as far as the low rocks which I was now approaching. When I had reached these, and walked over the moist, slippery sea-weed (at the risk of floundering into one of the numerous pools of clear, salt water that lay between them), to a little mossy promontory with the sea splashing round it, I looked back again to see who next was stirring. Still, there were only the early grooms with their horses, and one gentleman with a little dark speck of a dog running before him, and one water-cart coming out of the town to get water for the baths. In another minute or two, the distant bathing machines would begin to move, and then the elderly gentlemen of regular habits and sober quaker ladies would be coming to take their salutary morning walks. But however interesting such a scene might be, I could not wait to witness it, for the sun and the sea so dazzled my eyes in that direction, that I could but afford one glance; and then I turned again to delight myself with the sight and the sound of the sea, dashing against my promontory—with no prodigious force, for the swell was broken by the tangled sea-weed and the unseen rocks beneath; otherwise I should soon have been deluged with spray. But the tide was coming in; the water was rising; the gulfs and lakes were filling; the straits were widening: it was time to seek some safer footing; so I walked, skipped, and stumbled back to the smooth, wide sands, and resolved to proceed to a certain bold projection in the cliffs, and then return.
我神清气爽、心旷神怡、精神抖擞地走着，忘记了一切烦恼，感觉自己就像长了翅膀，至少可以走了四十英里而不感到疲倦，体会到一种从那时起就完全陌生的兴奋感。青年时期的日子。然而，大约六点半，马夫们开始下来晾晒主人的马——先是一匹，然后是另一匹，直到有十几匹马和五六个骑手：但这不必困扰我，因为他们会不要走到我现在正在接近的低矮岩石那儿。当我到达这些地方，走过潮湿、滑溜的海藻（冒着陷入海草之间众多清澈咸水池之一的危险），来到一个长满青苔的小海角，海水在周围溅起水花。 ，我又回头看看下一个激动的是谁。尽管如此，只有早到的马夫和他们的马，还有一位绅士，前面有一只黑色的小斑点狗在跑，还有一辆水车从镇上开来，去取洗澡水。再过一两分钟，远处的沐浴机就会开始运转，然后习惯有规律的年长绅士和清醒的贵格会女士就会过来进行有益的晨间散步。但无论这样的景象多么有趣，我都迫不及待地想亲眼目睹，因为那个方向的阳光和大海使我眼花缭乱，只能看一眼；然后我又转过身来，欣赏大海的景象和声音，冲向我的海角——没有用巨大的力量，因为海浪被缠结的海藻和下面看不见的岩石打破了；不然我很快就会被水花淹没。 但潮水正在涌来。水位正在上涨；海湾和湖泊都被填满了；海峡正在扩大：是时候寻找更安全的立足点了；于是我走着、跳着、跌跌撞撞地回到了光滑、宽阔的沙滩上，并决定继续前进到悬崖上某个大胆的突出部分，然后再返回。

Presently, I heard a snuffling sound behind me and then a dog came frisking and wriggling to my feet. It was my own Snap—the little dark, wire-haired terrier! When I spoke his name, he leapt up in my face and yelled for joy. Almost as much delighted as himself, I caught the little creature in my arms, and kissed him repeatedly. But how came he to be there? He could not have dropped from the sky, or come all that way alone: it must be either his master, the rat-catcher, or somebody else that had brought him; so, repressing my extravagant caresses, and endeavouring to repress his likewise, I looked round, and beheld—Mr. Weston!
不久，我听到身后传来一阵抽鼻子的声音，然后一只狗蹦蹦跳跳地来到我的脚边。这是我自己的 Snap——黑色的刚毛小梗犬！当我说出他的名字时，他跳到我面前，高兴地大喊。我几乎和他一样高兴，把这个小生物抱在怀里，反复地亲吻他。但他怎么会在那里呢？他不可能是从天上掉下来的，也不可能是独自来到这里的：一定是他的主人，捕鼠人，或者是其他人把他带来的；他不可能是一个人。于是，我抑制住自己过度的爱抚，也努力抑制他的同样的爱抚，我环顾四周，发现——先生。韦斯顿！

‘Your dog remembers you well, Miss Grey,’ said he, warmly grasping the hand I offered him without clearly knowing what I was about. ‘You rise early.’
“你的狗记得很清楚，格雷小姐，”他说，温暖地握住我向他伸出的手，但他并不清楚我在做什么。 “你起得很早。”

‘Not often so early as this,’ I replied, with amazing composure, considering all the circumstances of the case.
“这么早的情况并不常见。”考虑到案件的所有情况，我以惊人的镇静回答道。

‘How far do you purpose to extend your walk?’
“你打算步行多远？”

‘I was thinking of returning—it must be almost time, I think.’
“我正在考虑回去——我想时间应该差不多了。”

He consulted his watch—a gold one now—and told me it was only five minutes past seven.
他看了看手表——现在是金表——告诉我现在才七点过五分。

‘But, doubtless, you have had a long enough walk,’ said he, turning towards the town, to which I now proceeded leisurely to retrace my steps; and he walked beside me.
“但是，毫无疑问，你已经走了足够长的路了，”他说着，转向城镇，我现在悠闲地原路返回。他走在我身边。

‘In what part of the town do you live?’ asked he. ‘I never could discover.’
“你住在镇上的哪个地方？”他问。 “我永远无法发现。”

Never could discover? Had he endeavoured to do so then? I told him the place of our abode. He asked how we prospered in our affairs. I told him we were doing very well—that we had had a considerable addition to our pupils after the Christmas vacation, and expected a still further increase at the close of this.
永远无法发现？他当时有努力这样做吗？我告诉他我们住的地方。他问我们的事务进展如何。我告诉他我们做得很好——圣诞假期后我们的学生人数增加了很多，预计假期结束时学生人数还会进一步增加。

‘You must be an accomplished instructor,’ he observed.
“你一定是一位出色的教练，”他评论道。

‘No, it is my mother,’ I replied; ‘she manages things so well, and is so active, and clever, and kind.’
“不，是我妈妈。”我回答道。 “她把事情处理得很好，而且很积极、聪明、善良。”

‘I should like to know your mother. Will you introduce me to her some time, if I call?’
“我想认识一下你的母亲。如果我打电话的话，你能把我介绍给她吗？

‘Yes, willingly.’
“是的，自愿的。”

‘And will you allow me the privilege of an old friend, of looking in upon you now and then?’
“你愿意让我有一个老朋友的特权，时不时地看看你吗？”

‘Yes, if—I suppose so.’
“是的，如果——我想是这样。”

This was a very foolish answer, but the truth was, I considered that I had no right to invite anyone to my mother’s house without her knowledge; and if I had said, ‘Yes, if my mother does not object,’ it would appear as if by his question I understood more than was expected; so, SUPPOSING she would not, I added, ‘I suppose so:’ but of course I should have said something more sensible and more polite, if I had had my wits about me. We continued our walk for a minute in silence; which, however, was shortly relieved (no small relief to me) by Mr. Weston commenting upon the brightness of the morning and the beauty of the bay, and then upon the advantages A—possessed over many other fashionable places of resort.
这是一个非常愚蠢的答案，但事实是，我认为我没有权利在母亲不知情的情况下邀请任何人去她家；如果我说：“是的，如果我母亲不反对的话。”那么，通过他的问题，我似乎明白了比预期更多的事情。所以，假设她不会，我补充道，“我想是这样：”但是，如果我有自己的智慧，我当然应该说一些更明智、更有礼貌的话。我们默默地继续走了一分钟。然而，韦斯顿先生对早晨的明亮和海湾的美丽的评论，以及对许多其他时尚度假胜地所拥有的优势A的评论，很快就让我松了口气（对我来说不是什么小安慰）。

‘You don’t ask what brings me to A—‘ said he. ‘You can’t suppose I’m rich enough to come for my own pleasure.’
“你别问是什么让我来到A——”他说。 “你不能认为我有足够的钱来为自己的快乐而来。”

‘I heard you had left Horton.’
“我听说你离开了霍顿。”

‘You didn’t hear, then, that I had got the living of F-?’
“那么你没听说我过着靠——的生活吗？”

F—was a village about two miles distant from A-.
F——是一个距离A——大约两英里的村庄。

‘No,’ said I; ‘we live so completely out of the world, even here, that news seldom reaches me through any quarter; except through the medium of the—Gazette. But I hope you like your new parish; and that I may congratulate you on the acquisition?’
“不，”我说。 “我们的生活完全与世隔绝，即使在这里，我也很少收到任何消息；除非通过——公报这一媒介。但我希望你喜欢你的新教区；我可以祝贺你的收购吗？

‘I expect to like my parish better a year or two hence, when I have worked certain reforms I have set my heart upon—or, at least, progressed some steps towards such an achievement. But you may congratulate me now; for I find it very agreeable to HAVE a parish all to myself, with nobody to interfere with me—to thwart my plans or cripple my exertions: and besides, I have a respectable house in a rather pleasant neighbourhood, and three hundred pounds a year; and, in fact, I have nothing but solitude to complain of, and nothing but a companion to wish for.’
“我希望在一两年后，当我进行某些我下定决心的改革时，我会更喜欢我的教区，或者至少在实现这一成就方面取得了一些进展。但你现在可以祝贺我了；因为我发现拥有一个完全属于我自己的教区是非常令人愉快的，没有人干扰我——阻止我的计划或削弱我的努力：此外，我在一个相当宜人的社区有一栋受人尊敬的房子，每年三百英镑;事实上，我除了孤独之外别无什么可抱怨的，除了一个伴侣我也别无可求。

He looked at me as he concluded: and the flash of his dark eyes seemed to set my face on fire; greatly to my own discomfiture, for to evince confusion at such a juncture was intolerable. I made an effort, therefore, to remedy the evil, and disclaim all personal application of the remark by a hasty, ill-expressed reply, to the effect that, if he waited till he was well known in the neighbourhood, he might have numerous opportunities for supplying his want among the residents of F—and its vicinity, or the visitors of A—-, if he required so ample a choice: not considering the compliment implied by such an assertion, till his answer made me aware of it.
当他得出结论时，他看着我：他黑眼睛的闪光似乎让我的脸着火了；这让我自己非常沮丧，因为在这样的时刻表现出困惑是无法容忍的。因此，我尽力纠正这种错误，并通过仓促的、表达不恰当的答复来否认这句话的所有个人应用，大意是，如果他等到他在邻居中广为人知时，他可能会得到许多人的支持。如果他需要如此充足的选择，那么我有机会在F及其附近的居民或A的游客中满足他的需求：不考虑这种说法所暗示的恭维，直到他的回答让我意识到这一点。

‘I am not so presumptuous as to believe that,’ said he, ‘though you tell it me; but if it were so, I am rather particular in my notions of a companion for life, and perhaps I might not find one to suit me among the ladies you mention.’
“我还没有自以为是地相信这一点，”他说，“尽管你告诉我了；但如果是这样的话，我对终生伴侣的看法就相当挑剔了，也许我可能在你提到的女士中找不到适合我的人。

‘If you require perfection, you never will.’
“如果你要求完美，你永远不会。”

‘I do not—I have no right to require it, as being so far from perfect myself.’
“我不——我没有权利要求它，因为我自己还远未达到完美。”

Here the conversation was interrupted by a water-cart lumbering past us, for we were now come to the busy part of the sands; and, for the next eight or ten minutes, between carts and horses, and asses, and men, there was little room for social intercourse, till we had turned our backs upon the sea, and begun to ascend the precipitous road leading into the town. Here my companion offered me his arm, which I accepted, though not with the intention of using it as a support.
说到这里，谈话被一辆缓慢驶过的水车打断了，因为我们现在已经来到了沙滩上最繁忙的地方。在接下来的八到十分钟里，在车、马、驴和人之间，几乎没有社交的空间，直到我们背对大海，开始爬上通往城镇的陡峭道路。 。在这里，我的同伴向我伸出了手臂，我接受了，但并不是想用它作为支撑。

‘You don’t often come on to the sands, I think,’ said he, ‘for I have walked there many times, both morning and evening, since I came, and never seen you till now; and several times, in passing through the town, too, I have looked about for your school—but I did not think of the—Road; and once or twice I made inquiries, but without obtaining the requisite information.’
“我想，你不常到沙滩上来，”他说，“因为自从我来之后，我早晚都曾在那里散步过很多次，但直到现在才见过你。有好几次，在经过这个城镇的时候，我也曾四处寻找过你们的学校——但我没有想到那条路；我曾经询问过一两次，但没有获得必要的信息。

When we had surmounted the acclivity, I was about to withdraw my arm from his, but by a slight tightening of the elbow was tacitly informed that such was not his will, and accordingly desisted. Discoursing on different subjects, we entered the town, and passed through several streets. I saw that he was going out of his way to accompany me, notwithstanding the long walk that was yet before him; and, fearing that he might be inconveniencing himself from motives of politeness, I observed—‘I fear I am taking you out of your way, Mr. Weston—I believe the road to F—lies quite in another direction.’
当我们克服了上坡时，我正要从他的手臂中抽出手臂，但肘部稍微收紧，心照不宣地告诉我这不是他的意愿，因此停止了。我们聊着不同的话题，进入了小镇，穿过了几条街道。我看到他不遗余力地陪我，尽管前面还有很长的路要走。我担心他可能会出于礼貌而给自己带来不便，于是说道：“韦斯顿先生，我担心我会打扰你，我相信通向 F 的道路完全在另一个方向。”

‘I’ll leave you at the end of the next street,’ said he.
“我会把你留在下一条街的尽头，”他说。

‘And when will you come to see mamma?’
“你什么时候来看妈妈？”

‘To-morrow—God willing.’
“明天——上帝保佑。”

The end of the next street was nearly the conclusion of my journey. He stopped there, however, bid me good-morning, and called Snap, who seemed a little doubtful whether to follow his old mistress or his new master, but trotted away upon being summoned by the latter.
下一条街的尽头几乎就是我旅程的终点​​。然而，他在那儿停了下来，向我道了早安，并打电话给斯内普，斯内普似乎有点犹豫是跟随他的旧情妇还是他的新主人，但在后者召唤后小跑着走了。

‘I won’t offer to restore him to you, Miss Grey,’ said Mr. Weston, smiling, ‘because I like him.’
“我不会主动提出把他还给你，格雷小姐，”韦斯顿先生微笑着说，“因为我喜欢他。”

‘Oh, I don’t want him,’ replied I, ‘now that he has a good master; I’m quite satisfied.’
“哦，我不想要他了，”我回答道，“既然他有一个好主人了；我很满意。

‘You take it for granted that I am a good one, then?’
“那么，你就理所当然地认为我是个好人吗？”

The man and the dog departed, and I returned home, full of gratitude to heaven for so much bliss, and praying that my hopes might not again be crushed.
人和狗离开了，我回到家，对上天赐予如此多的幸福充满感激，并祈祷我的希望不会再次破灭。

CHAPTER XXV—CONCLUSION
第二十五章——结论

’Well, Agnes, you must not take such long walks again before breakfast,’ said my mother, observing that I drank an extra cup of coffee and ate nothing—pleading the heat of the weather, and the fatigue of my long walk as an excuse. I certainly did feel feverish and tired too.
“好吧，艾格尼丝，早餐前你不能再散步这么长的路了，”我母亲说，注意到我多喝了一杯咖啡，什么也没吃——借口是天气炎热，以及我作为一个孩子长途行走的疲劳。借口。我当然也感到发烧和疲倦。

‘You always do things by extremes: now, if you had taken a SHORT walk every morning, and would continue to do so, it would do you good.’
“你做事总是走极端：现在，如果你每天早上散步一小段，并且继续这样做，那会对你有好处。”

‘Well, mamma, I will.’
“好吧，妈妈，我会的。”

‘But this is worse than lying in bed or bending over your books: you have quite put yourself into a fever.’
“但这比躺在床上或弯腰看书更糟糕：你已经让自己陷入发烧状态。”

‘I won’t do it again,’ said I.
“我不会再这样做了，”我说。

I was racking my brains with thinking how to tell her about Mr. Weston, for she must know he was coming to-morrow. However, I waited till the breakfast things were removed, and I was more calm and cool; and then, having sat down to my drawing, I began—‘I met an old friend on the sands to-day, mamma.’
我绞尽脑汁思考如何告诉她韦斯顿先生的事，因为她一定知道他明天会来。不过，等到早餐的东西撤掉后，我心里平静多了；然后，坐下来画画后，我开始说：“今天我在沙滩上遇到了一位老朋友，妈妈。”

‘An old friend! Who could it be?’
'一个老朋友！会是谁呢？

‘Two old friends, indeed. One was a dog;’ and then I reminded her of Snap, whose history I had recounted before, and related the incident of his sudden appearance and remarkable recognition; ‘and the other,’ continued I, ‘was Mr. Weston, the curate of Horton.’
“确实是两个老朋友。其中一个是一只狗。”然后我让她想起了我之前讲述过的斯内普的历史，并讲述了他突然出现和引人注目的认可的事件； “另一个，”我继续说，“是韦斯顿先生，霍顿的牧师。”

‘Mr. Weston! I never heard of him before.’
'先生。韦斯顿！我以前从未听说过他。

‘Yes, you have: I’ve mentioned him several times, I believe: but you don’t remember.’
“是的，你提到过：我相信我曾多次提到过他：但你不记得了。”

‘I’ve heard you speak of Mr. Hatfield.’
“我听你说起哈特菲尔德先生。”

‘Mr. Hatfield was the rector, and Mr. Weston the curate: I used to mention him sometimes in contradistinction to Mr. Hatfield, as being a more efficient clergyman. However, he was on the sands this morning with the dog—he had bought it, I suppose, from the rat-catcher; and he knew me as well as it did—probably through its means: and I had a little conversation with him, in the course of which, as he asked about our school, I was led to say something about you, and your good management; and he said he should like to know you, and asked if I would introduce him to you, if he should take the liberty of calling to-morrow; so I said I would. Was I right?’
'先生。哈特菲尔德是教区长，韦斯顿先生是牧师：我有时会提到他，与哈特菲尔德先生形成对比，因为他是一位更有效率的牧师。然而，今天早上他和狗一起在沙滩上——我想，他是从捕鼠人那里买来的；他对我的了解和它一样——可能是通过它的方式：我和他进行了一些交谈，在这个过程中，当他询问我们学校的情况时，我不得不说一些关于你和你良好的管理的事情。 ;他说他想认识你，并问我能否把他介绍给你，是否可以冒昧地明天打电话；所以我说我会的。我说得对吗？

‘Of course. What kind of a man is he?’
'当然。他是一个什么样的人？

‘A very RESPECTABLE man, I think: but you will see him to-morrow. He is the new vicar of F—-, and as he has only been there a few weeks, I suppose he has made no friends yet, and wants a little society.’
“我认为他是一个非常受人尊敬的人：但你明天就会见到他。他是F——的新牧师，由于他刚到那里几个星期，我想他还没有交到朋友，并且想要一点社交。

The morrow came. What a fever of anxiety and expectation I was in from breakfast till noon—at which time he made his appearance! Having introduced him to my mother, I took my work to the window, and sat down to await the result of the interview. They got on extremely well together—greatly to my satisfaction, for I had felt very anxious about what my mother would think of him. He did not stay long that time: but when he rose to take leave, she said she should be happy to see him, whenever he might find it convenient to call again; and when he was gone, I was gratified by hearing her say,—‘Well! I think he’s a very sensible man. But why did you sit back there, Agnes,’ she added, ‘and talk so little?’
明天到了。从早饭一直到中午，我都处于一种多么焦灼和期待的状态——就在这时，他出现了！把他介绍给妈妈后，我拿着作业走到窗前，坐下来等待面试结果。他们相处得非常好——这让我很满意，因为我非常担心母亲会怎么看他。那次他没有待太久，但当他起身告辞时，她说她很高兴见到他，只要他方便再打电话；她就很高兴见到他。当他走后，我很高兴听到她说：“好吧！我认为他是一个非常明智的人。但艾格尼丝，你为什么坐在那里，”她补充道，“而且说话这么少？”

‘Because you talked so well, mamma, I thought you required no assistance from me: and, besides, he was your visitor, not mine.’
“因为你说得很好，妈妈，我以为你不需要我的帮助：而且，他是你的访客，不是我的。”

After that, he often called upon us—several times in the course of a week. He generally addressed most of his conversation to my mother: and no wonder, for she could converse. I almost envied the unfettered, vigorous fluency of her discourse, and the strong sense evinced by everything she said—and yet, I did not; for, though I occasionally regretted my own deficiencies for his sake, it gave me very great pleasure to sit and hear the two beings I loved and honoured above every one else in the world, discoursing together so amicably, so wisely, and so well. I was not always silent, however; nor was I at all neglected. I was quite as much noticed as I would wish to be: there was no lack of kind words and kinder looks, no end of delicate attentions, too fine and subtle to be grasped by words, and therefore indescribable—but deeply felt at heart.
此后，他经常拜访我们——一周之内好几次。他通常大部分谈话都是针对我母亲的：这也难怪，因为她会说话。我几乎羡慕她那无拘无束、充满活力的流利话语，以及她所说的一切所表现出的强烈意义——然而，我没有；因为，尽管我偶尔会为他而后悔自己的不足，但坐下来听这两位我所爱和尊敬的人胜过世界上其他人，如此友好、如此明智、如此融洽地交谈，给我带来了极大的乐趣。然而，我并不总是保持沉默。我也没有被忽视。我所受到的关注正如我所希望的那样：不乏善意的言语和友善的眼神，无尽的细腻关注，细致入微，难以用言语表达，因此无法形容，但内心却深深感受到。

Ceremony was quickly dropped between us: Mr. Weston came as an expected guest, welcome at all times, and never deranging the economy of our household affairs. He even called me ‘Agnes:’ the name had been timidly spoken at first, but, finding it gave no offence in any quarter, he seemed greatly to prefer that appellation to ‘Miss Grey;’ and so did I. How tedious and gloomy were those days in which he did not come! And yet not miserable; for I had still the remembrance of the last visit and the hope of the next to cheer me. But when two or three days passed without my seeing him, I certainly felt very anxious—absurdly, unreasonably so; for, of course, he had his own business and the affairs of his parish to attend to. And I dreaded the close of the holidays, when MY business also would begin, and I should be sometimes unable to see him, and sometimes—when my mother was in the schoolroom— obliged to be with him alone: a position I did not at all desire, in the house; though to meet him out of doors, and walk beside him, had proved by no means disagreeable.
我们之间的仪式很快就结束了：韦斯顿先生作为一位预期的客人来了，他随时受到欢迎，并且从不扰乱我们的家庭事务。他甚至叫我“艾格尼丝”：一开始我很胆怯地说这个名字，但是，发现它在任何方面都没有冒犯性，他似乎更喜欢这个称谓而不是“格雷小姐”；我也是如此。多么乏味和阴郁啊那些日子他没有来！但并不悲惨；因为我仍然记得上次的访问，并希望下次访问能够让我高兴起来。但当两三天不见他的踪迹时，我确实感到非常焦虑——这种焦虑是荒谬的、不合理的。因为，当然，他有自己的事情和教区的事务要处理。我害怕假期结束，那时我的生意也将开始，有时我不能见到他，有时——当我母亲在教室里时——不得不单独和他在一起：这是我不擅长的职位。一切欲望，尽在屋内；不过，在门外迎接他并走在他身边，一点也不令人不快。

One evening, however, in the last week of the vacation, he arrivedunexpectedly: for a heavy and protracted thunder-shower during the afternoon had almost destroyed my hopes of seeing him that day; but now the storm was over, and the sun was shining brightly.
然而，在假期最后一周的一个晚上，他出乎意料地到来了：因为下午一场猛烈而持久的雷阵雨几乎摧毁了我那天见到他的希望；但现在暴风雨已经过去了，阳光明媚。

‘A beautiful evening, Mrs. Grey!’ said he, as he entered. ‘Agnes, I want you to take a walk with me to—‘ (he named a certain part of the coast—a bold hill on the land side, and towards the sea a steep precipice, from the summit of which a glorious view is to be had). ‘The rain has laid the dust, and cooled and cleared the air, and the prospect will be magnificent. Will you come?’
“真是一个美好的夜晚，格雷夫人！”他走进去时说道。 “艾格尼丝，我想让你和我一起散步，去——”（他命名了海岸的某个部分——陆地一侧的一座陡峭的山丘，面向大海的陡峭悬崖，从山顶可以看到壮丽的景色拥有）。 ‘雨水落下尘埃，清凉空气，前景蔚为壮观。你会来吗？'

‘Can I go, mamma?’
“我可以走了吗，妈妈？”

‘Yes; to be sure.’
'是的;为了确定。'

I went to get ready, and was down again in a few minutes; though, of course, I took a little more pains with my attire than if I had merely been going out on some shopping expedition alone. The thunder-shower had certainly had a most beneficial effect upon the weather, and the evening was most delightful. Mr. Weston would have me to take his arm; he said little during our passage through the crowded streets, but walked very fast, and appeared grave and abstracted. I wondered what was the matter, and felt an indefinite dread that something unpleasant was on his mind; and vague surmises, concerning what it might be, troubled me not a little, and made me grave and silent enough. But these fantasies vanished upon reaching the quiet outskirts of the town; for as soon as we came within sight of the venerable old church, and the—hill, with the deep blue beyond it, I found my companion was cheerful enough.
我去准备，几分钟后又下来了。不过，当然，我在着装上比仅仅独自出去购物要花更多的心思。雷阵雨无疑对天气产生了最有利的影响，晚上的气氛也非常愉快。韦斯顿先生要我挽住他的手臂；我们穿过拥挤的街道时，他很少说话，但走得很快，显得严肃而心不在焉。我想知道发生了什么事，并感到一种无限的恐惧，生怕他心里有什么不愉快的事情。模糊的猜测，关于它可能是什么，让我感到不小的困扰，让我变得严肃和沉默。但当到达安静的郊区时，这些幻想就消失了。因为当我们看到那座古老的教堂和山丘以及远处的深蓝色时，我发现我的同伴很高兴。

‘I’m afraid I’ve been walking too fast for you, Agnes,’ said he: ‘in my impatience to be rid of the town, I forgot to consult your convenience; but now we’ll walk as slowly as you please. I see, by those light clouds in the west, there will be a brilliant sunset, and we shall be in time to witness its effect upon the sea, at the most moderate rate of progression.’
“恐怕我走得太快了，艾格尼丝，”他说，“我急于离开这座城镇，忘了问一下你是否方便；但现在我们可以按照你的意愿慢慢地走。我看到，在西方的那些轻云旁边，将会有灿烂的日落，我们将及时见证它对大海的影响，以最温和的进展速度。

When we had got about half-way up the hill, we fell into silence again; which, as usual, he was the first to break.
当我们走到半山腰时，我们又陷入了沉默。和往常一样，他是第一个打破的。

‘My house is desolate yet, Miss Grey,’ he smilingly observed, ‘and I am acquainted now with all the ladies in my parish, and several in this town too; and many others I know by sight and by report; but not one of them will suit me for a companion; in fact, there is only one person in the world that will: and that is yourself; and I want to know your decision?’
“我的房子还很荒凉，格雷小姐，”他微笑着说道，“我现在已经认识了我教区的所有女士，还有这个镇上的几位女士。还有许多其他人我是通过亲眼所见和报告得知的；但他们中没有一个适合我做伴；事实上，世界上只有一个人会这样做：那就是你自己；我想知道你的决定？

‘Are you in earnest, Mr. Weston?’
“韦斯顿先生，你是认真的吗？”

‘In earnest! How could you think I should jest on such a subject?’
‘认真的！你怎么认为我应该拿这样的话题开玩笑呢？

He laid his hand on mine, that rested on his arm: he must have felt it tremble—but it was no great matter now.
他把手放在我的手上，我的手放在他的手臂上：他一定感觉到它在颤抖——但现在已经不是什么大事了。

‘I hope I have not been too precipitate,’ he said, in a serious tone. ‘You must have known that it was not my way to flatter and talk soft nonsense, or even to speak the admiration that I felt; and that a single word or glance of mine meant more than the honied phrases and fervent protestations of most other men.’
“我希望我没有太草率，”他语气严肃地说。 “你一定知道，我不喜欢奉承，不说软话，甚至不表达我的钦佩；我的一句话或一个眼神比大多数其他人的溢美之辞和热烈的抗议更有意义。

I said something about not liking to leave my mother, and doing nothing without her consent.
我说了一些不愿意离开我母亲的话，没有她的同意我什么都不做。

‘I settled everything with Mrs. Grey, while you were putting on your bonnet,’ replied he. ‘She said I might have her consent, if I could obtain yours; and I asked her, in case I should be so happy, to come and live with us—for I was sure you would like it better. But she refused, saying she could now afford to employ an assistant, and would continue the school till she could purchase an annuity sufficient to maintain her in comfortable lodgings; and, meantime, she would spend her vacations alternately with us and your sister, and should be quite contented if you were happy. And so now I have overruled your objections on her account. Have you any other?’
“当你戴上帽子时，我已经和格雷太太解决了一切。”他回答道。 “她说如果我能得到你的同意，我可能会得到她的同意；我问她，如果我这么高兴的话，可以来和我们一起住吗——因为我确信你会更喜欢这样。但她拒绝了，说她现在有能力雇用一名助理，并将继续上学，直到她能购买足够的年金来维持她舒适的住宿；与此同时，她会轮流与我们和你妹妹一起度过假期，如果你快乐，她应该很满足。所以现在我驳回了你对她的反对意见。你还有别的吗？

‘No—none.’
“不——没有。”

‘You love me then?’ said be, fervently pressing my hand.
“那你爱我吗？”他热情地握着我的手说道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

Here I pause. My Diary, from which I have compiled these pages, goes but little further. I could go on for years, but I will content myself with adding, that I shall never forget that glorious summer evening, and always remember with delight that steep hill, and the edge of the precipice where we stood together, watching the splendid sunset mirrored in the restless world of waters at our feet—with hearts filled with gratitude to heaven, and happiness, and love—almost too full for speech.
这里我暂停一下。我从我的日记中整理了这些页面，但仅此而已。我可以继续说很多年，但我会满足于补充，我永远不会忘记那个灿烂的夏日夜晚，永远愉快地记得那座陡峭的山坡，以及我们一起站在一起，看着灿烂的夕阳映照的悬崖边缘。在我们脚下躁动的水域世界中，心中充满了对天堂的感激、幸福和爱，几乎无法言语。

A few weeks after that, when my mother had supplied herself with an assistant, I became the wife of Edward Weston; and never have found cause to repent it, and am certain that I never shall. We have had trials, and we know that we must have them again; but we bear them well together, and endeavour to fortify ourselves and each other against the final separation—that greatest of all afflictions to the survivor. But, if we keep in mind the glorious heaven beyond, where both may meet again, and sin and sorrow are unknown, surely that too may be borne; and, meantime, we endeavour to live to the glory of Him who has scattered so many blessings in our path.
几周后，当我母亲给自己配备了一名助手时，我就成了爱德华·韦斯顿的妻子。我从来没有找到理由悔改，并且确信我永远不会。我们已经经历过考验，并且知道我们必须再次经历考验；但我们能够很好地忍受它们，并努力增强自己和彼此的力量，抵御最后的分离——这对幸存者来说是最大的痛苦。但是，如果我们牢记远方的荣耀天堂，在那里，两人可以再次相遇，罪恶和悲伤是未知的，那么这当然也是可以忍受的；与此同时，我们努力为上帝的荣耀而活，他在我们的道路上散布了如此多的祝福。

Edward, by his strenuous exertions, has worked surprising reforms in his parish, and is esteemed and loved by its inhabitants—as he deserves; for whatever his faults may be as a man (and no one is entirely without), I defy anybody to blame him as a pastor, a husband, or a father.
爱德华通过他的艰苦努力，在他的教区进行了令人惊讶的改革，并受到教区居民的尊重和爱戴——这是他应得的；因为无论他作为一个男人有什么缺点（没有人完全没有缺点），我不认为任何人会责怪他作为牧师、丈夫或父亲。

Our children, Edward, Agnes, and little Mary, promise well; their education, for the time being, is chiefly committed to me; and they shall want no good thing that a mother’s care can give. Our modest income is amply sufficient for our requirements: and by practising the economy we learnt in harder times, and never attempting to imitate our richer neighbours, we manage not only to enjoy comfort and contentment ourselves, but to have every year something to lay by for our children, and something to give to those who need it.
我们的孩子，爱德华、艾格尼丝和小玛丽，前途无量。目前，他们的教育主要由我承担。他们不会想要母亲的照顾所能给予的任何好处。我们微薄的收入足以满足我们的要求：通过实践我们在困难时期学到的经济，并且从不试图模仿我们富裕的邻居，我们不仅自己能够享受舒适和满足，而且每年都有一些可以依靠的东西为了我们的孩子，并为有需要的人提供一些东西。

And now I think I have said sufficient.
现在我想我已经说得够多了。