
Emma
艾玛

By Jane Austen
作者：简·奥斯汀

Volume I
第一卷

Chapter I
第一章

Emma Woodhouse, handsome, clever, and rich, with a comfortable home and happy disposition, seemed to unite some of the best blessings of existence; and had lived nearly twenty-one years in the world with very little to distress or vex her.
艾玛·伍德豪斯（Emma Woodhouse）英俊、聪明、富有，拥有舒适的家和快乐的性情，似乎融合了生命中最美好的祝福。她在这个世界上生活了将近二十一年，几乎没有什么事情让她感到痛苦或烦恼。

She was the youngest of the two daughters of a most affectionate, indulgent father; and had, in consequence of her sister’s marriage, been mistress of his house from a very early period. Her mother had died too long ago for her to have more than an indistinct remembrance of her caresses; and her place had been supplied by an excellent woman as governess, who had fallen little short of a mother in affection.
她是两个女儿中最小的一个，父亲非常慈爱、宽容。由于她姐姐的婚姻，她很早就成为了他家的女主人。她的母亲已经去世很久了，她对母亲的爱抚只能依稀记得。她的位置是由一位出色的女家庭教师填补的，她在慈爱方面几乎不亚于母亲。

Sixteen years had Miss Taylor been in Mr. Woodhouse’s family, less as a governess than a friend, very fond of both daughters, but particularly of Emma. Between them it was more the intimacy of sisters. Even before Miss Taylor had ceased to hold the nominal office of governess, the mildness of her temper had hardly allowed her to impose any restraint; and the shadow of authority being now long passed away, they had been living together as friend and friend very mutually attached, and Emma doing just what she liked; highly esteeming Miss Taylor’s judgment, but directed chiefly by her own.
泰勒小姐在伍德豪斯先生的家里已经十六年了，与其说是家庭教师，不如说是朋友，她非常喜欢两个女儿，尤其是艾玛。他们之间更多的是姐妹般的亲密。即使在泰勒小姐不再担任家庭教师这个名义上的职位之前，她温和的脾气也几乎不允许她施加任何克制。权威的阴影早已过去，他们一直像朋友和朋友一样生活在一起，彼此依恋，艾玛做她喜欢做的事。高度尊重泰勒小姐的判断，但主要由她自己指导。

The real evils, indeed, of Emma’s situation were the power of having rather too much her own way, and a disposition to think a little too well of herself; these were the disadvantages which threatened alloy to her many enjoyments. The danger, however, was at present so unperceived, that they did not by any means rank as misfortunes with her.
确实，爱玛处境的真正罪恶在于她太过于我行我素，而且过于自视过高。这些缺点威胁到她的许多享受。然而，目前这种危险还没有被察觉，所以对她来说，这些危险无论如何也算不上是不幸。

Sorrow came—a gentle sorrow—but not at all in the shape of any disagreeable consciousness.—Miss Taylor married. It was Miss Taylor’s loss which first brought grief. It was on the wedding-day of this beloved friend that Emma first sat in mournful thought of any continuance. The wedding over, and the bride-people gone, her father and herself were left to dine together, with no prospect of a third to cheer a long evening. Her father composed himself to sleep after dinner, as usual, and she had then only to sit and think of what she had lost.
悲伤来临了——一种温和的悲伤——但根本没有以任何令人不快的意识的形式出现。——泰勒小姐结婚了。泰勒小姐的去世首先带来了悲伤。正是在这位挚友的婚礼当天，艾玛第一次坐在那里，悲伤地思考着接下来的一切。婚礼结束了，新娘们也走了，只剩下她的父亲和她自己一起吃饭，不可能有第三个人来为这个漫长的夜晚欢呼。晚饭后，父亲像往常一样安定下来睡觉，而她则只能坐下来思考她失去的东西。

The event had every promise of happiness for her friend. Mr. Weston was a man of unexceptionable character, easy fortune, suitable age, and pleasant manners; and there was some satisfaction in considering with what self-denying, generous friendship she had always wished and promoted the match; but it was a black morning’s work for her. The want of Miss Taylor would be felt every hour of every day. She recalled her past kindness—the kindness, the affection of sixteen years—how she had taught and how she had played with her from five years old—how she had devoted all her powers to attach and amuse her in health—and how nursed her through the various illnesses of childhood. A large debt of gratitude was owing here; but the intercourse of the last seven years, the equal footing and perfect unreserve which had soon followed Isabella’s marriage, on their being left to each other, was yet a dearer, tenderer recollection. She had been a friend and companion such as few possessed: intelligent, well-informed, useful, gentle, knowing all the ways of the family, interested in all its concerns, and peculiarly interested in herself, in every pleasure, every scheme of hers—one to whom she could speak every thought as it arose, and who had such an affection for her as could never find fault.
这次活动为她的朋友带来了幸福的一切承诺。韦斯顿先生是一个性格无可挑剔的人，家境优渥，年龄适中，举止令人愉快。考虑到她一直希望并以怎样的克己、慷慨的友谊来促成这桩婚事，心里感到有些满足。但这对她来说是一个黑暗的早晨。每天每时每刻都会感受到泰勒小姐的需要。她回忆起她过去的恩情——十六年来的恩慈、深情——从五岁起，她如何教导她、如何陪她玩耍——她如何在健康方面倾尽全力去亲近和逗她——以及如何护理她。经历了童年时期的各种疾病。这里欠下一大笔感激之情；但过去七年的交往，以及伊莎贝拉结婚后不久，他们各自留下的平等的基础和完美的毫无保留，却成了更珍贵、更温柔的回忆。她是一位很少有人拥有的朋友和伴侣：聪明、见多识广、有用、温柔，了解这个家庭的所有方式，对所有的事情都感兴趣，对她自己、对她的每一种快乐、她的每一个计划都特别感兴趣。 ——她可以向他倾诉所有的想法，并且对她充满感情，永远不会挑剔。

How was she to bear the change?—It was true that her friend was going only half a mile from them; but Emma was aware that great must be the difference between a Mrs. Weston, only half a mile from them, and a Miss Taylor in the house; and with all her advantages, natural and domestic, she was now in great danger of suffering from intellectual solitude. She dearly loved her father, but he was no companion for her. He could not meet her in conversation, rational or playful.
她要如何承受这种变化呢？——确实，她的朋友要去的地方离他们只有半英里；但是，她的朋友却要去离他们只有半英里的地方。但艾玛知道，离他们只有半英里的韦斯顿夫人和家里的泰勒小姐之间一定有很大的区别；尽管她拥有自然和家庭方面的所有优势，但她现在却面临着遭受智力孤独的巨大危险。她深爱着她的父亲，但他并不是她的伴侣。他无法与她交谈，无论是理性的还是俏皮的。

The evil of the actual disparity in their ages (and Mr. Woodhouse had not married early) was much increased by his constitution and habits; for having been a valetudinarian all his life, without activity of mind or body, he was a much older man in ways than in years; and though everywhere beloved for the friendliness of his heart and his amiable temper, his talents could not have recommended him at any time.
由于伍德豪斯先生的体格和习惯，他们年龄上的实际差距（而且伍德豪斯先生并没有早婚）所带来的恶果更加严重。因为他一生都处于体弱多病的状态，思想和身体都没有活动，所以他在某种程度上比实际年龄要老得多。尽管他的善良的心和和蔼可亲的脾气到处受人爱戴，但他的才华却无法在任何时候推荐他。

Her sister, though comparatively but little removed by matrimony, being settled in London, only sixteen miles off, was much beyond her daily reach; and many a long October and November evening must be struggled through at Hartfield, before Christmas brought the next visit from Isabella and her husband, and their little children, to fill the house, and give her pleasant society again.
她的妹妹虽然相对而言并没有因婚姻而受到影响，但她定居在距离伦敦仅十六英里的地方，远远超出了她日常的接触范围。十月和十一月的许多漫长夜晚必须在哈特菲尔德度过，直到圣诞节到来之前，伊莎贝拉和她的丈夫以及他们的小孩再次来到这里，填满房子，再次与她愉快地交往。

Highbury, the large and populous village, almost amounting to a town, to which Hartfield, in spite of its separate lawn, and shrubberies, and name, did really belong, afforded her no equals. The Woodhouses were first in consequence there. All looked up to them. She had many acquaintance in the place, for her father was universally civil, but not one among them who could be accepted in lieu of Miss Taylor for even half a day. It was a melancholy change; and Emma could not but sigh over it, and wish for impossible things, till her father awoke, and made it necessary to be cheerful. His spirits required support. He was a nervous man, easily depressed; fond of every body that he was used to, and hating to part with them; hating change of every kind. Matrimony, as the origin of change, was always disagreeable; and he was by no means yet reconciled to his own daughter’s marrying, nor could ever speak of her but with compassion, though it had been entirely a match of affection, when he was now obliged to part with Miss Taylor too; and from his habits of gentle selfishness, and of being never able to suppose that other people could feel differently from himself, he was very much disposed to think Miss Taylor had done as sad a thing for herself as for them, and would have been a great deal happier if she had spent all the rest of her life at Hartfield. Emma smiled and chatted as cheerfully as she could, to keep him from such thoughts; but when tea came, it was impossible for him not to say exactly as he had said at dinner,
海布里是个人口稠密的大村庄，几乎相当于一个城镇，尽管哈特菲尔德有独立的草坪、灌木丛和名字，但它确实属于这个城镇，给她带来了无与伦比的待遇。伍德豪斯家族在那里排在第一位。所有人都仰视他们。她在这个地方有很多熟人，因为她的父亲普遍都很有礼貌，但其中没有一个人可以代替泰勒小姐哪怕半天。这是一个令人忧郁的变化；爱玛只能为此叹息，并希望实现不可能的事情，直到她父亲醒来，她必须感到高兴。他的精神需要支持。他是一个神经质的人，很容易抑郁。他喜欢每一个他习惯的身体，并且不愿与他们分开。讨厌各种改变。婚姻作为改变的根源，总是令人不愉快的。他还没有同意自己女儿的结婚，也只能带着同情来谈论她，尽管这完全是一种感情的结合，而他现在也不得不与泰勒小姐分开。由于他温和自私的习惯，以及永远无法认为其他人的感受与自己不同，他非常倾向于认为泰勒小姐为自己和为他们做了同样悲伤的事情，并且会成为一个如果她的余生都在哈特菲尔德度过，那就更幸福了。艾玛微笑着，尽可能愉快地聊天，不让他产生这样的想法。但当茶来的时候，他不可能不按照晚餐时所说的那样说：

‘Poor Miss Taylor!—I wish she were here again. What a pity it is that Mr. Weston ever thought of her!’
“可怜的泰勒小姐！——我希望她能再来这里。”可惜韦斯顿先生竟然想到了她！

‘I cannot agree with you, papa; you know I cannot. Mr. Weston is such a good-humoured, pleasant, excellent man, that he thoroughly deserves a good wife;—and you would not have had Miss Taylor live with us for ever, and bear all my odd humours, when she might have a house of her own?’
“我不能同意你的观点，爸爸；你知道我不能。韦斯顿先生是一个脾气很好、令人愉快、优秀的男人，他完全值得一个好妻子；——你不会让泰勒小姐永远和我们住在一起，忍受我所有奇怪的脾气，当她可能有一个她自己的房子？

‘A house of her own!—But where is the advantage of a house of her own? This is three times as large.—And you have never any odd humours, my dear.’
“她自己的房子！——但是她自己的房子有什么好处呢？”这是三倍大。——而且你从来没有任何奇怪的幽默感，亲爱的。”

‘How often we shall be going to see them, and they coming to see us!—We shall be always meeting! We must begin; we must go and pay wedding visit very soon.’
“我们会经常去看他们，他们也会来看我们！——我们总是会见面的！”我们必须开始；我们必须尽快去参加婚礼。

‘My dear, how am I to get so far? Randalls is such a distance. I could not walk half so far.’
‘亲爱的，我怎么才能走到这一步呢？兰德尔斯就是这样的距离。我连一半都走不了。

‘No, papa, nobody thought of your walking. We must go in the carriage, to be sure.’
“不，爸爸，没有人想到你走路。当然，我们必须坐马车去。

‘The carriage! But James will not like to put the horses to for such a little way;—and where are the poor horses to be while we are paying our visit?’
‘马车！但詹姆斯不喜欢让马匹走这么短的路；——当我们来拜访时，可怜的马匹在哪里？

‘They are to be put into Mr. Weston’s stable, papa. You know we have settled all that already. We talked it all over with Mr. Weston last night. And as for James, you may be very sure he will always like going to Randalls, because of his daughter’s being housemaid there. I only doubt whether he will ever take us anywhere else. That was your doing, papa. You got Hannah that good place. Nobody thought of Hannah till you mentioned her—James is so obliged to you!’
“爸爸，它们要被放进韦斯顿先生的马厩里。”你知道我们已经解决了这一切。昨晚我们和韦斯顿先生详细讨论了这件事。至于詹姆斯，你可能非常确定他会一直喜欢去兰德尔斯，因为他的女儿在那里当女佣。我只是怀疑他是否会带我们去其他地方。那是你做的，爸爸。你给汉娜带来了那个好地方。在你提到汉娜之前，没有人想到她——詹姆斯非常感谢你！

‘I am very glad I did think of her. It was very lucky, for I would not have had poor James think himself slighted upon any account; and I am sure she will make a very good servant: she is a civil, pretty-spoken girl; I have a great opinion of her. Whenever I see her, she always curtseys and asks me how I do, in a very pretty manner; and when you have had her here to do needlework, I observe she always turns the lock of the door the right way and never bangs it. I am sure she will be an excellent servant; and it will be a great comfort to poor Miss Taylor to have somebody about her that she is used to see. Whenever James goes over to see his daughter, you know, she will be hearing of us. He will be able to tell her how we all are.’
“我很高兴我确实想到了她。这是非常幸运的，因为我不会让可怜的詹姆斯认为自己在任何情况下都受到了轻视。我相信她会成为一个非常好的仆人：她是一个彬彬有礼、谈吐漂亮的女孩；我对她很有意见。每当我见到她时，她总是以一种非常漂亮的方式行屈膝礼并问我过得怎么样。当你让她来这里做针线活时，我发现她总是以正确的方式转动门锁，而且从不敲门。我确信她会成为一名优秀的仆人；对于可怜的泰勒小姐来说，身边有一个她习惯见到的人，这将是一种莫大的安慰。你知道，每当詹姆斯去看望他的女儿时，她都会听到我们的消息。他将能够告诉她我们大家都怎么样。

Emma spared no exertions to maintain this happier flow of ideas, and hoped, by the help of backgammon, to get her father tolerably through the evening, and be attacked by no regrets but her own. The backgammon-table was placed; but a visitor immediately afterwards walked in and made it unnecessary.
艾玛不遗余力地保持这种快乐的思想流动，并希望在双陆棋的帮助下，让她的父亲度过一个愉快的夜晚，除了她自己的遗憾之外，不会受到任何遗憾的袭击。双陆棋桌已摆好；但随后一位访客走了进来，让这一切变得不必要。

Mr. Knightley, a sensible man about seven or eight-and-thirty, was not only a very old and intimate friend of the family, but particularly connected with it, as the elder brother of Isabella’s husband. He lived about a mile from Highbury, was a frequent visitor, and always welcome, and at this time more welcome than usual, as coming directly from their mutual connexions in London. He had returned to a late dinner, after some days’ absence, and now walked up to Hartfield to say that all were well in Brunswick Square. It was a happy circumstance, and animated Mr. Woodhouse for some time. Mr. Knightley had a cheerful manner, which always did him good; and his many inquiries after ‘poor Isabella’ and her children were answered most satisfactorily. When this was over, Mr. Woodhouse gratefully observed, ‘It is very kind of you, Mr. Knightley, to come out at this late hour to call upon us. I am afraid you must have had a shocking walk.’
奈特利先生是一个大约七岁、八岁、三十岁左右的明智男人，他不仅是这个家庭的老朋友，而且作为伊莎贝拉丈夫的哥哥，与这个家庭关系特别密切。他住在距离海布里大约一英里的地方，是一位常客，总是很受欢迎，而且这次比平时更受欢迎，因为他们直接来自伦敦的相互关系。缺席几天后，他回来吃晚饭，现在走到哈特菲尔德，告诉布伦瑞克广场一切都很好。这是一个令人愉快的情况，伍德豪斯先生有一段时间很兴奋。奈特利先生性格开朗，这对他总是有好处的。他对“可怜的伊莎贝拉”和她的孩子们的多次询问都得到了最令人满意的答复。一切结束后，伍德豪斯先生感激地说道：“奈特利先生，您在这么晚的时候出来拜访我们，真是太好了。”我担心你一定经历了一次令人震惊的步行。

‘Not at all, sir. It is a beautiful moonlight night; and so mild that I must draw back from your great fire.’
“一点也不，先生。这是一个美丽的月夜；如此温和，我必须从你的大火中撤退。

‘But you must have found it very damp and dirty. I wish you may not catch cold.’
“但你一定发现它又湿又脏。我希望你别着凉。

‘Dirty, sir! Look at my shoes. Not a speck on them.’
‘脏兮兮的，先生！看看我的鞋子。他们身上没有一点。

‘Well! that is quite surprising, for we have had a vast deal of rain here. It rained dreadfully hard for half an hour while we were at breakfast. I wanted them to put off the wedding.’
'出色地！这很令人惊讶，因为我们这里下了很大的雨。我们吃早餐的时候，下了半个小时的大雨。我希望他们推迟婚礼。

‘By the bye—I have not wished you joy. Being pretty well aware of what sort of joy you must both be feeling, I have been in no hurry with my congratulations; but I hope it all went off tolerably well. How did you all behave? Who cried most?’
‘顺便说一句——我并没有祝你快乐。我很清楚你们俩一定感受到了什么样的喜悦，所以我并不急于表示祝贺；但我希望一切进展顺利。你们都表现得怎么样？谁哭得最多？

‘Ah! poor Miss Taylor! ‘Tis a sad business.’
'啊！可怜的泰勒小姐！ “这是一件悲伤的事情。”

‘Poor Mr. and Miss Woodhouse, if you please; but I cannot possibly say ‘poor Miss Taylor.’ I have a great regard for you and Emma; but when it comes to the question of dependence or independence!—At any rate, it must be better to have only one to please than two.’
“可怜的伍德豪斯先生和小姐，请您放心；但我不可能说“可怜的泰勒小姐”。我非常尊重你和艾玛；但当涉及到依赖还是独立的问题时！——无论如何，只取悦一个人肯定比取悦两个人要好。

‘Especially when one of those two is such a fanciful, troublesome creature!’ said Emma playfully. ‘That is what you have in your head, I know—and what you would certainly say if my father were not by.’
“尤其是当这两个中的一个是一个如此奇特、麻烦的生物时！”艾玛开玩笑地说。 “我知道，这就是你脑子里的想法——如果我父亲不在身边，你肯定会这么说。”

‘I believe it is very true, my dear, indeed,’ said Mr. Woodhouse, with a sigh. ‘I am afraid I am sometimes very fanciful and troublesome.’
“我相信这是千真万确的，亲爱的，确实如此，”伍德豪斯先生叹了口气说道。 “恐怕我有时很爱幻想，也很麻烦。”

‘My dearest papa! You do not think I could mean you, or suppose Mr. Knightley to mean you. What a horrible idea! Oh no! I meant only myself. Mr. Knightley loves to find fault with me, you know— in a joke—it is all a joke. We always say what we like to one another.’
‘我最亲爱的爸爸！你不认为我指的是你，或者认为奈特利先生指的是你。多么可怕的想法啊！不好了！我指的只是我自己。奈特利先生喜欢找我的毛病，你知道的——开个玩笑——这全是个玩笑。我们总是互相说我们喜欢说的话。”

Mr. Knightley, in fact, was one of the few people who could see faults in Emma Woodhouse, and the only one who ever told her of them: and though this was not particularly agreeable to Emma herself, she knew it would be so much less so to her father, that she would not have him really suspect such a circumstance as her not being thought perfect by every body.
事实上，奈特利先生是少数几个能看出艾玛·伍德豪斯身上的缺点的人之一，也是唯一一个告诉过她这些缺点的人：虽然这对艾玛本人来说并不是特别满意，但她知道这会带来很大的影响。对她的父亲来说则不然，她不会让他真正怀疑她并不被所有人认为是完美的这种情况。

‘Emma knows I never flatter her,’ said Mr. Knightley, ‘but I meant no reflection on any body. Miss Taylor has been used to have two persons to please; she will now have but one. The chances are that she must be a gainer.’
“艾玛知道我从不奉承她，”奈特利先生说，“但我无意批评任何人。泰勒小姐已经习惯了要取悦两个人。她现在只剩下一个了。很可能她一定是一个赢家。

‘Well,’ said Emma, willing to let it pass—‘you want to hear about the wedding; and I shall be happy to tell you, for we all behaved charmingly. Every body was punctual, every body in their best looks: not a tear, and hardly a long face to be seen. Oh no; we all felt that we were going to be only half a mile apart, and were sure of meeting every day.’
“好吧，”艾玛说，愿意让它过去——“你想听听婚礼的消息；你知道吗？”我很高兴告诉你，因为我们都表现得很迷人。每个人都准时，每个人都处于最佳状态：没有一滴眼泪，也几乎看不到一张拉长的脸。不好了;我们都觉得我们之间的距离只有半英里，并且确信每天都会见面。

‘Dear Emma bears every thing so well,’ said her father. ‘But, Mr. Knightley, she is really very sorry to lose poor Miss Taylor, and I am sure she will miss her more than she thinks for.’
“亲爱的艾玛，一切都承受得很好，”她的父亲说。 “但是，奈特利先生，她对失去可怜的泰勒小姐感到非常遗憾，我相信她会比她想象的更想念她。”

Emma turned away her head, divided between tears and smiles. ‘It is impossible that Emma should not miss such a companion,’ said Mr. Knightley. ‘We should not like her so well as we do, sir, if we could suppose it; but she knows how much the marriage is to Miss Taylor’s advantage; she knows how very acceptable it must be, at Miss Taylor’s time of life, to be settled in a home of her own, and how important to her to be secure of a comfortable provision, and therefore cannot allow herself to feel so much pain as pleasure. Every friend of Miss Taylor must be glad to have her so happily married.’
艾玛转过头，泪水与微笑交织在一起。 “艾玛不可能不想念这样一个同伴，”奈特利先生说。 “先生，如果我们能这么认为的话，我们应该不会像我们现在这样喜欢她。但她知道这段婚姻对泰勒小姐有多大好处；她知道，在泰勒小姐这个年纪，能在自己的家里安顿下来，是多么容易接受的事，也知道拥有舒适的条件对她来说是多么重要，因此她不能让自己感到如此痛苦。乐趣。泰勒小姐的每个朋友都一定为​​她如此幸福的婚姻感到高兴。

‘And you have forgotten one matter of joy to me,’ said Emma, ‘and a very considerable one—that I made the match myself. I made the match, you know, four years ago; and to have it take place, and be proved in the right, when so many people said Mr. Weston would never marry again, may comfort me for any thing.’
“你忘记了一件令我高兴的事，”艾玛说，“而且是一件非常重要的事——我亲手撮合了这桩婚事。你知道，我四年前就完成了这场比赛；当很多人说韦斯顿先生永远不会再婚时，让这一切发生并被证明是正确的，这可能会安慰我。

Mr. Knightley shook his head at her. Her father fondly replied, ‘Ah! my dear, I wish you would not make matches and foretell things, for whatever you say always comes to pass. Pray do not make any more matches.’
奈特利先生对她摇摇头。父亲慈爱地回答：“啊！亲爱的，我希望你不要做匹配和预言，因为你所说的总会发生。祈祷不要再进行任何匹配。

‘I promise you to make none for myself, papa; but I must, indeed, for other people. It is the greatest amusement in the world! And after such success, you know!—Every body said that Mr. Weston would never marry again. Oh dear, no! Mr. Weston, who had been a widower so long, and who seemed so perfectly comfortable without a wife, so constantly occupied either in his business in town or among his friends here, always acceptable wherever he went, always cheerful— Mr. Weston need not spend a single evening in the year alone if he did not like it. Oh no! Mr. Weston certainly would never marry again. Some people even talked of a promise to his wife on her deathbed, and others of the son and the uncle not letting him. All manner of solemn nonsense was talked on the subject, but I believed none of it.
“我向你保证，爸爸，我不会为自己做任何事。”但我确实必须为了其他人。这是世界上最大的娱乐！在如此成功之后，你知道！——所有人都说韦斯顿先生再也不会结婚了。哦，亲爱的，不！韦斯顿先生已经鳏夫这么久了，没有妻子似乎也很舒服，总是忙于城里的生意或这里的朋友们，无论走到哪里总是受欢迎的，总是快乐的——韦斯顿先生需要如果他不喜欢的话，一年中没有一个晚上是独自度过的。不好了！韦斯顿先生肯定不会再结婚了。有些人甚至谈到他妻子临终前的承诺，还有人说儿子和叔叔不让他这么做。关于这个话题，大家议论纷纷，各种严肃的废话，但我一个都不相信。

‘Ever since the day—about four years ago—that Miss Taylor and I met with him in Broadway Lane, when, because it began to drizzle, he darted away with so much gallantry, and borrowed two umbrellas for us from Farmer Mitchell’s, I made up my mind on the subject. I planned the match from that hour; and when such success has blessed me in this instance, dear papa, you cannot think that I shall leave off match-making.’
“大约四年前，自从我和泰勒小姐在百老汇巷遇见他那天起，当时天开始下毛毛雨，他就那么殷勤地飞奔而去，还从农夫米切尔那里借了两把雨伞给我们，我我对这个问题做出了决定。我从那一刻起就计划了这场比赛；当我在这件事上获得如此成功时，亲爱的爸爸，你不能认为我会放弃媒人。

‘I do not understand what you mean by ‘success,’’ said Mr. Knightley. ‘Success supposes endeavour. Your time has been properly and delicately spent, if you have been endeavouring for the last four years to bring about this marriage. A worthy employment for a young lady’s mind! But if, which I rather imagine, your making the match, as you call it, means only your planning it, your saying to yourself one idle day, ‘I think it would be a very good thing for Miss Taylor if Mr. Weston were to marry her,’ and saying it again to yourself every now and then afterwards, why do you talk of success? Where is your merit? What are you proud of? You made a lucky guess; and that is all that can be said.’
“我不明白你所说的‘成功’是什么意思，”奈特利先生说。 ‘成功需要努力。如果你在过去的四年里一直在努力促成这段婚姻，那么你的时间就花得恰当而精致。对于一位年轻女士来说，这是一项有价值的工作！但是，如果，我更愿意想象，你促成这场比赛，正如你所说的那样，仅仅意味着你计划它，你在空闲的一天对自己说，“我认为如果韦斯顿先生是泰勒小姐的话，这对泰勒小姐来说将是一件非常好的事情”娶她”，事后时不时地对自己说一遍，为什么你会谈论成功呢？你的优点在哪里？你有什么值得骄傲的？你猜对了；只能说这么多了。

‘And have you never known the pleasure and triumph of a lucky guess?— I pity you.—I thought you cleverer—for, depend upon it a lucky guess is never merely luck. There is always some talent in it. And as to my poor word ‘success,’ which you quarrel with, I do not know that I am so entirely without any claim to it. You have drawn two pretty pictures; but I think there may be a third—a something between the do-nothing and the do-all. If I had not promoted Mr. Weston’s visits here, and given many little encouragements, and smoothed many little matters, it might not have come to any thing after all. I think you must know Hartfield enough to comprehend that.’
“你从来没有体验过幸运猜测的快乐和胜利吗？——我可怜你。——我以为你更聪明——因为，相信这一点，幸运猜测绝不仅仅是运气。其中总有一些才华。至于你所争论的我那可怜的“成功”这个词，我不知道我完全没有任何权利要求它。你画了两张漂亮的图画；但我认为可能还有第三种——一种介于无所作为和全能之间的东西。如果不是我为韦斯顿先生来访做宣传，给予许多小鼓励，平息许多小事，可能终究不会有什么结果。我想你一定足够了解哈特菲尔德才能理解这一点。

‘A straightforward, open-hearted man like Weston, and a rational, unaffected woman like Miss Taylor, may be safely left to manage their own concerns. You are more likely to have done harm to yourself, than good to them, by interference.’
“像韦斯顿这样直率、心胸开阔的男人，和像泰勒小姐这样理性、不受影响的女人，可以放心地让他们自己处理自己的问题。通过干扰，你更有可能对自己造成伤害，而不是对他们有利。

‘Emma never thinks of herself, if she can do good to others,’ rejoined Mr. Woodhouse, understanding but in part. ‘But, my dear, pray do not make any more matches; they are silly things, and break up one’s family circle grievously.’
“艾玛从不考虑自己是否能为别人做好事，”伍德豪斯先生回答道，他表示理解，但部分理解。 “但是，亲爱的，请不要再做火柴了；它们是愚蠢的事情，会严重破坏一个人的家庭圈子。”

‘Only one more, papa; only for Mr. Elton. Poor Mr. Elton! You like Mr. Elton, papa,—I must look about for a wife for him. There is nobody in Highbury who deserves him—and he has been here a whole year, and has fitted up his house so comfortably, that it would be a shame to have him single any longer—and I thought when he was joining their hands to-day, he looked so very much as if he would like to have the same kind office done for him! I think very well of Mr. Elton, and this is the only way I have of doing him a service.’
“只剩下一个了，爸爸；只为埃尔顿先生。可怜的埃尔顿先生！爸爸，您喜欢埃尔顿先生——我必须为他物色一个妻子。海布里没有人配得上他——他已经在这里一整年了，把他的房子布置得如此舒适，如果他再单身下去那就太可惜了——当他联起手来时，我想那天，他看起来非常愿意为他做同样的办公室！我对埃尔顿先生评价很好，这是我为他服务的唯一方式。

‘Mr. Elton is a very pretty young man, to be sure, and a very good young man, and I have a great regard for him. But if you want to shew him any attention, my dear, ask him to come and dine with us some day. That will be a much better thing. I dare say Mr. Knightley will be so kind as to meet him.’
'先生。毫无疑问，埃尔顿是一个非常漂亮的年轻人，也是一个非常优秀的年轻人，我非常尊重他。但如果你想引起他的注意，亲爱的，请他有一天来和我们一起吃饭。那将是一件更好的事情。我敢说奈特利先生一定会很热情地来见见他。

‘With a great deal of pleasure, sir, at any time,’ said Mr. Knightley, laughing, ‘and I agree with you entirely, that it will be a much better thing. Invite him to dinner, Emma, and help him to the best of the fish and the chicken, but leave him to chuse his own wife. Depend upon it, a man of six or seven-and-twenty can take care of himself.’
“我非常高兴，先生，任何时候，”奈特利先生笑着说，“我完全同意你的观点，这将是一件更好的事情。”艾玛，请他吃饭，帮他吃最好的鱼和鸡，但让他自己选择自己的妻子。靠，一个六岁、七岁、二十岁的人可以照顾自己的。”

Chapter II
第二章

Mr. Weston was a native of Highbury, and born of a respectable family, which for the last two or three generations had been rising into gentility and property. He had received a good education, but, on succeeding early in life to a small independence, had become indisposed for any of the more homely pursuits in which his brothers were engaged, and had satisfied an active, cheerful mind and social temper by entering into the militia of his county, then embodied.
韦斯顿先生是海布里人，出生于一个受人尊敬的家庭，在过去的两三代人中，这个家庭逐渐变得绅士和富有。他受过良好的教育，但是，在早年取得了一点点独立后，他就不再适合他的兄弟们从事的任何家务活动，而是通过进入社会来满足积极、开朗的心态和社交脾气。他所在县的民兵，然后体现出来。

Captain Weston was a general favourite; and when the chances of his military life had introduced him to Miss Churchill, of a great Yorkshire family, and Miss Churchill fell in love with him, nobody was surprized, except her brother and his wife, who had never seen him, and who were full of pride and importance, which the connexion would offend.
韦斯顿船长深受大众喜爱。当他的军队生活的机会把他介绍给约克郡一个大家庭的丘吉尔小姐，而丘吉尔小姐爱上了他时，除了她的兄弟和他的妻子之外，没有人感到惊讶，他们从未见过他，而且他们是充满了骄傲和重要性，这种联系会冒犯到这一点。

Miss Churchill, however, being of age, and with the full command of her fortune—though her fortune bore no proportion to the family-estate—was not to be dissuaded from the marriage, and it took place, to the infinite mortification of Mr. and Mrs. Churchill, who threw her off with due decorum. It was an unsuitable connexion, and did not produce much happiness. Mrs. Weston ought to have found more in it, for she had a husband whose warm heart and sweet temper made him think every thing due to her in return for the great goodness of being in love with him; but though she had one sort of spirit, she had not the best. She had resolution enough to pursue her own will in spite of her brother, but not enough to refrain from unreasonable regrets at that brother’s unreasonable anger, nor from missing the luxuries of her former home. They lived beyond their income, but still it was nothing in comparison of Enscombe: she did not cease to love her husband, but she wanted at once to be the wife of Captain Weston, and Miss Churchill of Enscombe.
然而，丘吉尔小姐已经成年了，并且完全掌控了自己的财产——尽管她的财产与家族财产不相称——所以不能阻止这桩婚事，而这桩婚事还是发生了，这让丘吉尔先生无限受辱。 ……还有丘吉尔夫人，丘吉尔夫人以应有的礼节把她甩开了。这是一种不合适的联系，并没有带来多少幸福。韦斯顿夫人应该从中找到更多，因为她有一个丈夫，他的心地温暖，性情温和，使他认为一切都归功于她，以换取爱上他的伟大善意；但他的丈夫，他的丈夫，他的心地温暖，性情温和，使他认为一切都归功于她，以换取与他相爱的伟大善良。尽管她有一种精神，但她并不是最好的。她有足够的决心不顾哥哥的反对而追求自己的意愿，但又不足以避免对哥哥无理的愤怒感到无缘无故的遗憾，也没有足够的决心去怀念以前家中的奢华。他们的生活超出了他们的收入，但与恩斯库姆相比仍然算不了什么：她并没有停止爱她的丈夫，但她想立即成为韦斯顿上尉和恩斯库姆丘吉尔小姐的妻子。

Captain Weston, who had been considered, especially by the Churchills, as making such an amazing match, was proved to have much the worst of the bargain; for when his wife died, after a three years’ marriage, he was rather a poorer man than at first, and with a child to maintain. From the expense of the child, however, he was soon relieved. The boy had, with the additional softening claim of a lingering illness of his mother’s, been the means of a sort of reconciliation; and Mr. and Mrs. Churchill, having no children of their own, nor any other young creature of equal kindred to care for, offered to take the whole charge of the little Frank soon after her decease. Some scruples and some reluctance the widower-father may be supposed to have felt; but as they were overcome by other considerations, the child was given up to the care and the wealth of the Churchills, and he had only his own comfort to seek, and his own situation to improve as he could.
韦斯顿上尉被认为是一场令人惊叹的比赛，尤其是丘吉尔家族，但事实证明他做了最糟糕的交易。因为当他的妻子在结婚三年后去世时，他比起初更穷了，而且还要抚养一个孩子。不过，孩子的花费让他很快就松了口气。这个男孩，加上他母亲的病情挥之不去的额外软化说法，成为了某种和解的手段。丘吉尔先生和夫人没有自己的孩子，也没有任何其他同族的年轻人需要照顾，因此在小弗兰克去世后不久，他提出全权负责她的生活。鳏夫父亲也许应该感到有些顾虑和不情愿；但由于其他考虑因素压倒了他们，孩子被交给了丘吉尔一家的照顾和财富，他只能寻求自己的安慰，并尽可能改善自己的处境。

A complete change of life became desirable. He quitted the militia and engaged in trade, having brothers already established in a good way in London, which afforded him a favourable opening. It was a concern which brought just employment enough. He had still a small house in Highbury, where most of his leisure days were spent; and between useful occupation and the pleasures of society, the next eighteen or twenty years of his life passed cheerfully away. He had, by that time, realised an easy competence—enough to secure the purchase of a little estate adjoining Highbury, which he had always longed for—enough to marry a woman as portionless even as Miss Taylor, and to live according to the wishes of his own friendly and social disposition.
彻底改变生活变得令人向往。他退出民兵并从事贸易，他的兄弟们已经在伦敦建立了良好的基础，这为他提供了有利的机会。这种担忧只带来了足够的就业机会。他在海布里还有一栋小房子，他的大部分闲暇时光都在那里度过。在有用的职业和社会的乐趣之间，他接下来的十八、二十年的生活愉快地过去了。那时，他已经意识到了一种轻而易举的能力——足以购买毗邻海布里的一小块地产，这是他一直渴望的——足以娶一个像泰勒小姐一样没有财产的女人，并按照自己的意愿生活。他自己的友善和社交性格。

It was now some time since Miss Taylor had begun to influence his schemes; but as it was not the tyrannic influence of youth on youth, it had not shaken his determination of never settling till he could purchase Randalls, and the sale of Randalls was long looked forward to; but he had gone steadily on, with these objects in view, till they were accomplished. He had made his fortune, bought his house, and obtained his wife; and was beginning a new period of existence, with every probability of greater happiness than in any yet passed through. He had never been an unhappy man; his own temper had secured him from that, even in his first marriage; but his second must shew him how delightful a well-judging and truly amiable woman could be, and must give him the pleasantest proof of its being a great deal better to choose than to be chosen, to excite gratitude than to feel it.
泰勒小姐开始影响他的计划已经有一段时间了。但这并不是年轻人对年轻人的专制影响，这并没有动摇他在买下兰德尔斯之前绝不安定下来的决心，而出售兰德尔斯则是人们长期以来的期盼。但他怀揣着这些目标，稳步前行，直至实现。他发了财，买了房子，娶了妻子。并开始了一个新的生存时期，极有可能获得比以往任何时期都更大的幸福。他从来都不是一个不快乐的人。即使在他的第一次婚姻中，他自己的脾气也使他避免了这种情况。但他的第二个必须向他展示一个判断力良好、真正和蔼可亲的女人是多么令人愉快，并且必须向他提供最令人愉快的证据，证明选择比被选择要好得多，激发感激之情比感受感激要好得多。

He had only himself to please in his choice: his fortune was his own; for as to Frank, it was more than being tacitly brought up as his uncle’s heir, it had become so avowed an adoption as to have him assume the name of Churchill on coming of age. It was most unlikely, therefore, that he should ever want his father’s assistance. His father had no apprehension of it. The aunt was a capricious woman, and governed her husband entirely; but it was not in Mr. Weston’s nature to imagine that any caprice could be strong enough to affect one so dear, and, as he believed, so deservedly dear. He saw his son every year in London, and was proud of him; and his fond report of him as a very fine young man had made Highbury feel a sort of pride in him too. He was looked on as sufficiently belonging to the place to make his merits and prospects a kind of common concern.
他的选择只能取悦他自己：他的命运是他自己的；他的命运是他自己的；他的命运是他自己的。对于弗兰克来说，这不仅仅是被默认为他叔叔的继承人，而且已经成为公开的收养，以至于他在成年后就采用了丘吉尔的名字。因此，他不太可能需要父亲的帮助。他的父亲对此并不担心。姨妈是个任性的女人，对丈夫完全管束。但韦斯顿先生的本性不认为任何反复无常都会强烈到足以影响一个如此亲爱的人，而且正如他所相信的那样，如此亲爱的人是当之无愧的。他每年都在伦敦见到他的儿子，并为他感到骄傲。他对他的称赞是一个非常优秀的年轻人，这让海布里也对他感到一种自豪。人们认为他对这个地方有足够的归属感，因此他的优点和前景成为人们共同关心的问题。

Mr. Frank Churchill was one of the boasts of Highbury, and a lively curiosity to see him prevailed, though the compliment was so little returned that he had never been there in his life. His coming to visit his father had been often talked of but never achieved.
弗兰克·丘吉尔先生是海布里的骄傲人物之一，人们很想一睹他的风采，尽管人们对他的赞美很少得到回应，以至于他一生中从未去过那里。人们经常谈论他要去看望父亲，但从未实现。

Now, upon his father’s marriage, it was very generally proposed, as a most proper attention, that the visit should take place. There was not a dissentient voice on the subject, either when Mrs. Perry drank tea with Mrs. and Miss Bates, or when Mrs. and Miss Bates returned the visit. Now was the time for Mr. Frank Churchill to come among them; and the hope strengthened when it was understood that he had written to his new mother on the occasion. For a few days, every morning visit in Highbury included some mention of the handsome letter Mrs. Weston had received. ‘I suppose you have heard of the handsome letter Mr. Frank Churchill has written to Mrs. Weston? I understand it was a very handsome letter, indeed. Mr. Woodhouse told me of it. Mr. Woodhouse saw the letter, and he says he never saw such a handsome letter in his life.’
现在，在他父亲结婚后，人们普遍提议，作为最适当的关注，应该进行这次访问。无论是当佩里夫人与贝茨夫人和小姐喝茶时，还是当贝茨夫人和小姐回访时，在这个问题上都没有提出异议。现在是弗兰克·丘吉尔先生加入他们之中的时候了。当得知他当时写信给他的新母亲时，他的希望更加坚定了。几天来，每天早上去海布里的时候，都会提到韦斯顿夫人收到的那封漂亮的信。 “我想你听说过弗兰克·丘吉尔先生写给韦斯顿夫人的那封漂亮的信吧？”我知道这确实是一封非常漂亮的信。伍德豪斯先生告诉了我这件事。伍德豪斯先生看到了这封信，他说他一生中从未见过如此漂亮的信。

It was, indeed, a highly prized letter. Mrs. Weston had, of course, formed a very favourable idea of the young man; and such a pleasing attention was an irresistible proof of his great good sense, and a most welcome addition to every source and every expression of congratulation which her marriage had already secured. She felt herself a most fortunate woman; and she had lived long enough to know how fortunate she might well be thought, where the only regret was for a partial separation from friends whose friendship for her had never cooled, and who could ill bear to part with her.
这确实是一封非常珍贵的信。韦斯顿夫人当然对这个年轻人产生了非常好感。这种令人愉快的关注是他伟大判断力的不可抗拒的证明，也是对她的婚姻已经获得的每一种来源和每一种祝贺的最令人欢迎的补充。她觉得自己是一个最幸运的女人。她已经活了足够长的时间，知道她可能被认为是多么幸运，唯一的遗憾是与朋友们部分分离，他们对她的友谊从未冷却，而且舍不得与她分开。

She knew that at times she must be missed; and could not think, without pain, of Emma’s losing a single pleasure, or suffering an hour’s ennui, from the want of her companionableness: but dear Emma was of no feeble character; she was more equal to her situation than most girls would have been, and had sense, and energy, and spirits that might be hoped would bear her well and happily through its little difficulties and privations. And then there was such comfort in the very easy distance of Randalls from Hartfield, so convenient for even solitary female walking, and in Mr. Weston’s disposition and circumstances, which would make the approaching season no hindrance to their spending half the evenings in the week together.
她知道有时人们一定会想念她；有时她会想念她。想到艾玛会因为缺乏陪伴而失去一点快乐，或者遭受一小时的倦怠，她就会感到痛苦。但是亲爱的艾玛性格并不软弱；她比大多数女孩更能适应自己的处境，并且有理智、有活力、有精神，希望这些东西能让她幸福快乐地度过小小的困难和匮乏。然后，兰德尔斯距离哈特菲尔德很近，即使是单独的女性散步也很方便，而且韦斯顿先生的性情和环境也很舒适，这将使即将到来的季节不会妨碍她们在一周的一半晚上度过一起。

Her situation was altogether the subject of hours of gratitude to Mrs. Weston, and of moments only of regret; and her satisfaction—-her more than satisfaction—her cheerful enjoyment, was so just and so apparent, that Emma, well as she knew her father, was sometimes taken by surprize at his being still able to pity ‘poor Miss Taylor,’ when they left her at Randalls in the centre of every domestic comfort, or saw her go away in the evening attended by her pleasant husband to a carriage of her own. But never did she go without Mr. Woodhouse’s giving a gentle sigh, and saying, ‘Ah, poor Miss Taylor! She would be very glad to stay.’
她的处境完全是韦斯顿夫人数小时的感激之情，但也只有片刻的遗憾。她的满足——她不仅仅是满足——她愉快的享受，是如此公正和明显，以至于爱玛，她很了解她的父亲，有时会惊讶于他仍然能够怜悯“可怜的泰勒小姐”，当他们把她留在兰德尔斯的每一个家庭舒适的中心，或者看着她在晚上离开，由她愉快的丈夫乘坐她自己的马车。但每次她离开时，伍德豪斯先生都会轻轻叹息一声，说道：“啊，可怜的泰勒小姐！”她会很高兴留下来。

There was no recovering Miss Taylor—nor much likelihood of ceasing to pity her; but a few weeks brought some alleviation to Mr. Woodhouse. The compliments of his neighbours were over; he was no longer teased by being wished joy of so sorrowful an event; and the wedding-cake, which had been a great distress to him, was all eat up. His own stomach could bear nothing rich, and he could never believe other people to be different from himself. What was unwholesome to him he regarded as unfit for any body; and he had, therefore, earnestly tried to dissuade them from having any wedding-cake at all, and when that proved vain, as earnestly tried to prevent any body’s eating it. He had been at the pains of consulting Mr. Perry, the apothecary, on the subject. Mr. Perry was an intelligent, gentlemanlike man, whose frequent visits were one of the comforts of Mr. Woodhouse’s life; and upon being applied to, he could not but acknowledge (though it seemed rather against the bias of inclination) that wedding-cake might certainly disagree with many—perhaps with most people, unless taken moderately. With such an opinion, in confirmation of his own, Mr. Woodhouse hoped to influence every visitor of the newly married pair; but still the cake was eaten; and there was no rest for his benevolent nerves till it was all gone.
泰勒小姐不可能康复——也不可能停止同情她。但几周后，伍德豪斯先生的心情有所缓解。邻居们的赞美声已经结束了。他不再因为有人祝愿他为如此悲伤的事情感到高兴而取笑。令他苦恼不已的结婚蛋糕也被吃光了。他自己的胃吃不下任何丰盛的东西，他从来不相信别人和自己有什么不同。对他来说不健康的东西，他认为对任何人都不适合。因此，他曾极力劝阻他们不要吃任何结婚蛋糕，但当这一切徒劳无功时，他又极力阻止任何人吃它。关于这个问题，他煞费苦心地咨询了药剂师佩里先生。佩里先生是一位聪明、有绅士风度的人，他的频繁拜访是伍德豪斯先生生活中的舒适之一。在被应用后，他不得不承认（尽管这似乎与倾向的偏见相当相反），除非谨慎对待，否则婚礼蛋糕可能肯定不适合许多人——也许不适合大多数人。伍德豪斯先生怀着这样的观点，希望能够影响这对新婚夫妇的每一位来访者，以证实自己的观点。但蛋糕还是被吃掉了；直到一切都消失之前，他仁慈的神经才得以休息。

There was a strange rumour in Highbury of all the little Perrys being seen with a slice of Mrs. Weston’s wedding-cake in their hands: but Mr. Woodhouse would never believe it.
海布里流传着一个奇怪的谣言，据说所有的小佩里一家都手里拿着一块韦斯顿夫人的结婚蛋糕：但伍德豪斯先生永远不会相信。

Chapter III
第三章

Mr. Woodhouse was fond of society in his own way. He liked very much to have his friends come and see him; and from various united causes, from his long residence at Hartfield, and his good nature, from his fortune, his house, and his daughter, he could command the visits of his own little circle, in a great measure, as he liked. He had not much intercourse with any families beyond that circle; his horror of late hours, and large dinner-parties, made him unfit for any acquaintance but such as would visit him on his own terms. Fortunately for him, Highbury, including Randalls in the same parish, and Donwell Abbey in the parish adjoining, the seat of Mr. Knightley, comprehended many such. Not unfrequently, through Emma’s persuasion, he had some of the chosen and the best to dine with him: but evening parties were what he preferred; and, unless he fancied himself at any time unequal to company, there was scarcely an evening in the week in which Emma could not make up a card-table for him.
伍德豪斯先生以自己的方式热爱社交。他非常喜欢朋友们来看他。由于各种共同的原因，由于他在哈特菲尔德的长期居住，由于他的善良本性，由于他的财富，他的房子和他的女儿，他可以在很大程度上随心所欲地指挥他自己的小圈子的访问。他与这个圈子以外的家庭没有太多交往。他对熬夜和大型晚宴的恐惧使他不适合与任何熟人交往，除非那些会按照他自己的条件拜访他的人。对他来说幸运的是，海布里，包括同一个教区的兰德尔斯，以及毗邻教区的唐威尔修道院，也就是奈特利先生的所在地，有很多这样的地方。在艾玛的劝说下，他经常邀请一些精选的、最好的人来和他一起吃饭：但他更喜欢晚上的聚会；他喜欢参加晚会。而且，除非他认为自己在任何时候都无法与人相处，否则一周中几乎没有一个晚上艾玛不能为他准备一张牌桌。

Real, long-standing regard brought the Westons and Mr. Knightley; and by Mr. Elton, a young man living alone without liking it, the privilege of exchanging any vacant evening of his own blank solitude for the elegancies and society of Mr. Woodhouse’s drawing-room, and the smiles of his lovely daughter, was in no danger of being thrown away.
韦斯顿夫妇和奈特利先生对他们产生了真正的、长期的尊重。埃尔顿先生，一个独自生活的年轻人，不喜欢这样，他有幸用自己空虚的孤独的夜晚来换取伍德豪斯先生客厅的优雅和社交，以及他可爱的女儿的微笑，这是在没有被丢弃的危险。

After these came a second set; among the most come-at-able of whom were Mrs. and Miss Bates, and Mrs. Goddard, three ladies almost always at the service of an invitation from Hartfield, and who were fetched and carried home so often, that Mr. Woodhouse thought it no hardship for either James or the horses. Had it taken place only once a year, it would have been a grievance.
接下来是第二盘。其中最讨人喜欢的是贝茨夫人和戈达德夫人，这三位女士几乎总是应哈特菲尔德的邀请而服务，她们经常被接回家，伍德豪斯先生认为这对詹姆斯和马匹来说都没有困难。如果它每年只发生一次，那将是一种不满。

Mrs. Bates, the widow of a former vicar of Highbury, was a very old lady, almost past every thing but tea and quadrille. She lived with her single daughter in a very small way, and was considered with all the regard and respect which a harmless old lady, under such untoward circumstances, can excite. Her daughter enjoyed a most uncommon degree of popularity for a woman neither young, handsome, rich, nor married. Miss Bates stood in the very worst predicament in the world for having much of the public favour; and she had no intellectual superiority to make atonement to herself, or frighten those who might hate her into outward respect. She had never boasted either beauty or cleverness. Her youth had passed without distinction, and her middle of life was devoted to the care of a failing mother, and the endeavour to make a small income go as far as possible. And yet she was a happy woman, and a woman whom no one named without good-will. It was her own universal good-will and contented temper which worked such wonders. She loved every body, was interested in every body’s happiness, quicksighted to every body’s merits; thought herself a most fortunate creature, and surrounded with blessings in such an excellent mother, and so many good neighbours and friends, and a home that wanted for nothing. The simplicity and cheerfulness of her nature, her contented and grateful spirit, were a recommendation to every body, and a mine of felicity to herself. She was a great talker upon little matters, which exactly suited Mr. Woodhouse, full of trivial communications and harmless gossip.
贝茨夫人是海布里一位前牧师的遗孀，她已经是一位非常老的女士了，除了茶和卡德里尔舞之外，几乎什么都做不了。她和她的独身女儿过着一种很小的生活，受到了一位无害的老妇人在如此不幸的情况下所能激起的所有尊重和尊重。对于一个既不年轻、不英俊、不富有、又未婚的女人来说，她的女儿享有极不寻常的受欢迎程度。贝茨小姐因获得公众的青睐而陷入了世界上最糟糕的困境。她没有智力上的优势来为自己赎罪，或者吓唬那些可能恨她的人，让他们获得表面上的尊重。她从来不夸耀自己的美丽或聪明。她的青年时代毫无特色地过去了，她的中年则致力于照顾衰弱的母亲，并努力让微薄的收入尽可能地维持下去。然而她是一个幸福的女人，一个没有人不怀好意地称呼她的女人。正是她自己的普遍善意和满足的脾气创造了如此奇迹。她爱每个人，对每个人的幸福感兴趣，对每个人的优点都有敏锐的洞察力；她认为自己是一个最幸运的人，有一位如此优秀的母亲，如此多的好邻居和朋友，以及一个一无所缺的家，周围充满了祝福。她的天性单纯、开朗，她的满足和感恩的精神，是对每个人的推荐，也是她自己的幸福矿井。她在小事上很健谈，这完全适合伍德豪斯先生，他充满了琐碎的交流和无害的八卦。

Mrs. Goddard was the mistress of a School—not of a seminary, or an establishment, or any thing which professed, in long sentences of refined nonsense, to combine liberal acquirements with elegant morality, upon new principles and new systems—and where young ladies for enormous pay might be screwed out of health and into vanity—but a real, honest, old-fashioned Boarding-school, where a reasonable quantity of accomplishments were sold at a reasonable price, and where girls might be sent to be out of the way, and scramble themselves into a little education, without any danger of coming back prodigies. Mrs. Goddard’s school was in high repute—and very deservedly; for Highbury was reckoned a particularly healthy spot: she had an ample house and garden, gave the children plenty of wholesome food, let them run about a great deal in the summer, and in winter dressed their chilblains with her own hands. It was no wonder that a train of twenty young couple now walked after her to church. She was a plain, motherly kind of woman, who had worked hard in her youth, and now thought herself entitled to the occasional holiday of a tea-visit; and having formerly owed much to Mr. Woodhouse’s kindness, felt his particular claim on her to leave her neat parlour, hung round with fancy-work, whenever she could, and win or lose a few sixpences by his fireside.
戈达德夫人是一所学校的女主人——不是一所神学院，也不是一个机构，也不是任何一个用长篇精炼的废话宣称将自由的修养与高雅的道德结合起来，根据新的原则和新的制度的东西——而且在那里，年轻的学生获得巨额报酬的女士们可能会因健康和虚荣而被榨干——但是一所真正的、诚实的、老式的寄宿学校，在那里，合理数量的成就以合理的价格出售，女孩们可能会被送出学校。并努力接受一点教育，而不会有任何成为神童的危险。戈达德夫人的学校享有盛誉——而且当之无愧。因为海布里被认为是一个特别健康的地方：她有一个宽敞的房子和花园，给孩子们充足的有益健康的食物，让他们在夏天多跑，在冬天亲手包扎他们的冻疮。难怪现在有一列二十对年轻夫妇跟着她去教堂。她是一位朴素、慈母般的女人，年轻时努力工作，现在认为自己有资格偶尔去喝茶。以前，我非常感谢伍德豪斯先生的好意，觉得他特别要求她离开整洁的客厅，一有机会就去玩奇特的作品，在他的炉边赢或输几个六便士。

These were the ladies whom Emma found herself very frequently able to collect; and happy was she, for her father’s sake, in the power; though, as far as she was herself concerned, it was no remedy for the absence of Mrs. Weston. She was delighted to see her father look comfortable, and very much pleased with herself for contriving things so well; but the quiet prosings of three such women made her feel that every evening so spent was indeed one of the long evenings she had fearfully anticipated.
艾玛发现自己经常能找到这些女士。为了她父亲的缘故，她掌握了权力，她感到很高兴。不过，就她自己而言，这并不能弥补韦斯顿夫人的缺席。她很高兴看到父亲看起来很自在，也为自己把事情安排得这么好而感到非常高兴。但三个这样的女人的安静的吟唱让她感到，这样度过的每个夜晚确实是她所恐惧地期待的漫长夜晚之一。

As she sat one morning, looking forward to exactly such a close of the present day, a note was brought from Mrs. Goddard, requesting, in most respectful terms, to be allowed to bring Miss Smith with her; a most welcome request: for Miss Smith was a girl of seventeen, whom Emma knew very well by sight, and had long felt an interest in, on account of her beauty. A very gracious invitation was returned, and the evening no longer dreaded by the fair mistress of the mansion.
一天早上，当她坐着，期待着今天的结束时，戈达德夫人带来了一张纸条，以最尊敬的方式请求允许带着史密斯小姐一起去。这是一个非常受欢迎的请求：史密斯小姐是一位十七岁的女孩，艾玛对她很熟悉，并且由于她的美丽而长期以来对她产生了兴趣。收到了非常亲切的邀请，宅邸美丽的女主人不再害怕这个夜晚。

Harriet Smith was the natural daughter of somebody. Somebody had placed her, several years back, at Mrs. Goddard’s school, and somebody had lately raised her from the condition of scholar to that of parlour-boarder. This was all that was generally known of her history. She had no visible friends but what had been acquired at Highbury, and was now just returned from a long visit in the country to some young ladies who had been at school there with her.
哈丽特·史密斯是某人的亲生女儿。几年前，有人把她安置在戈达德夫人的学校，最近又有人把她从学者的身份提升为寄宿生。这就是人们对她的历史的全部了解。除了在海布里结识的朋友外，她没有任何可见的朋友，而且现在刚刚从乡下长期访问回来，见到了一些和她一起上学的年轻女士。

She was a very pretty girl, and her beauty happened to be of a sort which Emma particularly admired. She was short, plump, and fair, with a fine bloom, blue eyes, light hair, regular features, and a look of great sweetness, and, before the end of the evening, Emma was as much pleased with her manners as her person, and quite determined to continue the acquaintance.
她是一个非常漂亮的女孩，她的美丽恰好是艾玛特别欣赏的那种。她身材矮小，丰满，皮肤白皙，有着美丽的容貌，蓝色的眼睛，浅色的头发，五官端正，看上去非常甜美，在晚上结束之前，艾玛对她的举止和她的人一样感到满意，并且相当决心继续相识。

She was not struck by any thing remarkably clever in Miss Smith’s conversation, but she found her altogether very engaging—not inconveniently shy, not unwilling to talk—and yet so far from pushing, shewing so proper and becoming a deference, seeming so pleasantly grateful for being admitted to Hartfield, and so artlessly impressed by the appearance of every thing in so superior a style to what she had been used to, that she must have good sense, and deserve encouragement. Encouragement should be given. Those soft blue eyes, and all those natural graces, should not be wasted on the inferior society of Highbury and its connexions. The acquaintance she had already formed were unworthy of her. The friends from whom she had just parted, though very good sort of people, must be doing her harm. They were a family of the name of Martin, whom Emma well knew by character, as renting a large farm of Mr. Knightley, and residing in the parish of Donwell—very creditably, she believed—she knew Mr. Knightley thought highly of them—but they must be coarse and unpolished, and very unfit to be the intimates of a girl who wanted only a little more knowledge and elegance to be quite perfect. She would notice her; she would improve her; she would detach her from her bad acquaintance, and introduce her into good society; she would form her opinions and her manners. It would be an interesting, and certainly a very kind undertaking; highly becoming her own situation in life, her leisure, and powers.
史密斯小姐的谈话中，她并没有被任何非常聪明的地方所打动，但她发现她整体上非常有吸引力——不是害羞，也不是不愿意说话——但到目前为止，她并没有咄咄逼人，表现得如此得体，变得顺从，看起来是如此令人愉快的感激之情因为她被哈特菲尔德录取了，所有事物的外观都如此天真地给她留下了深刻的印象，其风格比她以前习惯的要优越，所以她一定有很好的判断力，值得鼓励。应给予鼓励。那双柔和的蓝眼睛，以及所有那些天生的优雅，不应该浪费在海布里的下层社会及其联系上。她已经认识的人配不上她。刚刚与她分手的那些朋友，虽然都是很好的人，但一定是在伤害她。他们是一个姓马丁的家庭，艾玛对他们的性格很熟悉，因为他们租了奈特利先生的一个大农场，住在唐威尔教区——她相信这非常值得称赞——她知道奈特利先生对他们评价很高。 ——但他们一定是粗俗的、未经雕琢的，非常不适合成为一个只需要多一点知识和优雅就可以完美的女孩的知己。她会注意到她的；她会提高自己；她会让她脱离那些不熟的人，并把她介绍给好的社会。她会形成自己的观点和举止。这将是一项有趣的事业，当然也是一项非常友善的事业。高度成为她自己的生活处境、闲暇和权力。

She was so busy in admiring those soft blue eyes, in talking and listening, and forming all these schemes in the in-betweens, that the evening flew away at a very unusual rate; and the supper-table, which always closed such parties, and for which she had been used to sit and watch the due time, was all set out and ready, and moved forwards to the fire, before she was aware. With an alacrity beyond the common impulse of a spirit which yet was never indifferent to the credit of doing every thing well and attentively, with the real good-will of a mind delighted with its own ideas, did she then do all the honours of the meal, and help and recommend the minced chicken and scalloped oysters, with an urgency which she knew would be acceptable to the early hours and civil scruples of their guests.
她忙着欣赏那双温柔的蓝眼睛，忙着说话和听，忙着在中间制定所有这些计划，所以这个夜晚以一种非常不寻常的速度过去了；晚宴餐桌总是在这样的聚会结束时，她习惯于坐在餐桌上观看规定的时间，在她意识到之前，餐桌已经全部摆好准备，并移到了火边。她怀着超越一般精神冲动的敏捷精神，对做好每一件事、用心做好每一件事从来不漠不关心，怀着一颗对自己的想法感到高兴的心灵的真正善意，然后，她完成了所有的荣誉。饭菜，并帮助和推荐碎鸡肉和扇贝牡蛎，她知道这种紧迫感对于凌晨和客人的文明顾忌来说是可以接受的。

Upon such occasions poor Mr. Woodhouses feelings were in sad warfare. He loved to have the cloth laid, because it had been the fashion of his youth, but his conviction of suppers being very unwholesome made him rather sorry to see any thing put on it; and while his hospitality would have welcomed his visitors to every thing, his care for their health made him grieve that they would eat.
在这种情况下，可怜的伍德豪斯先生的感情陷入了悲伤的战争。他喜欢把布铺上，因为这是他年轻时的时尚，但他坚信晚餐非常不健康，这让他很遗憾看到上面铺上任何东西；因为他认为晚餐很不健康，所以他很遗憾看到上面铺上任何东西；虽然他的热情好客会欢迎他的访客做任何事，但他对他们健康的关心却让他为他们吃饭而感到悲伤。

Such another small basin of thin gruel as his own was all that he could, with thorough self-approbation, recommend; though he might constrain himself, while the ladies were comfortably clearing the nicer things, to say:
他只能带着彻底的自我认可，推荐另一小盆像他自己的稀粥。尽管当女士们舒舒服服地清理更好的东西时，他可能会克制自己说：

‘Mrs. Bates, let me propose your venturing on one of these eggs. An egg boiled very soft is not unwholesome. Serle understands boiling an egg better than any body. I would not recommend an egg boiled by any body else; but you need not be afraid, they are very small, you see—one of our small eggs will not hurt you. Miss Bates, let Emma help you to a little bit of tart—a very little bit. Ours are all apple-tarts. You need not be afraid of unwholesome preserves here. I do not advise the custard. Mrs. Goddard, what say you to half a glass of wine? A small half-glass, put into a tumbler of water? I do not think it could disagree with you.’
'太太。贝茨，让我建议你冒险尝试其中一个鸡蛋。煮得很软的鸡蛋并没有什么坏处。塞尔比任何人都更懂得煮鸡蛋。我不会推荐别人煮的鸡蛋；但你不必害怕，它们很小，你看，我们的一个小鸡蛋不会伤害你。贝茨小姐，让艾玛帮你做一点馅饼——一点点。我们的都是苹果馅饼。您不必担心这里的果酱不健康。我不建议蛋奶冻。戈达德夫人，喝半杯酒怎么样？一小半杯，放入一大杯水中？我认为你不会不同意。

Emma allowed her father to talk—but supplied her visitors in a much more satisfactory style, and on the present evening had particular pleasure in sending them away happy. The happiness of Miss Smith was quite equal to her intentions. Miss Woodhouse was so great a personage in Highbury, that the prospect of the introduction had given as much panic as pleasure; but the humble, grateful little girl went off with highly gratified feelings, delighted with the affability with which Miss Woodhouse had treated her all the evening, and actually shaken hands with her at last!
艾玛允许她的父亲说话，但以一种更令人满意的方式向她的访客提供了帮助，并且在今天晚上特别高兴地送走了他们。史密斯小姐的幸福与她的意图完全一致。伍德豪斯小姐是海布里的一位大人物，一想到要介绍她，既让人感到惊慌，也让人感到高兴。但这个谦虚、感激的小女孩带着非常欣慰的心情离开了，她对伍德豪斯小姐整个晚上对她的和蔼可亲感到高兴，最后还真的和她握手了！

Chapter IV
第四章

Harriet Smith’s intimacy at Hartfield was soon a settled thing. Quick and decided in her ways, Emma lost no time in inviting, encouraging, and telling her to come very often; and as their acquaintance increased, so did their satisfaction in each other. As a walking companion, Emma had very early foreseen how useful she might find her. In that respect Mrs. Weston’s loss had been important. Her father never went beyond the shrubbery, where two divisions of the ground sufficed him for his long walk, or his short, as the year varied; and since Mrs. Weston’s marriage her exercise had been too much confined. She had ventured once alone to Randalls, but it was not pleasant; and a Harriet Smith, therefore, one whom she could summon at any time to a walk, would be a valuable addition to her privileges. But in every respect, as she saw more of her, she approved her, and was confirmed in all her kind designs.
哈丽特·史密斯在哈特菲尔德的亲密关系很快就尘埃落定了。艾玛行动敏捷、果断，不失时机地邀请、鼓励并告诉她经常来。随着他们熟识的加深，他们对彼此的满意程度也随之增加。作为一个步行伙伴，艾玛很早就预见到她会发现她有多么有用。从这方面来说，韦斯顿夫人的去世非常重要。她的父亲从来没有走出过灌木丛，那里的两块土地足以满足他的长途步行或短途步行，随着年份的变化；自从韦斯顿夫人结婚以来，她的锻炼就受到了太多限制。她曾独自冒险前往兰德尔斯，但那次并不愉快。因此，她可以随时召唤一个哈丽特·史密斯来散步，这将是对她的特权的宝贵补充。但在各方面，随着对她的了解越来越多，她也认可了她，并在她的一切善意设计中得到了证实。

Harriet certainly was not clever, but she had a sweet, docile, grateful disposition, was totally free from conceit, and only desiring to be guided by any one she looked up to. Her early attachment to herself was very amiable; and her inclination for good company, and power of appreciating what was elegant and clever, shewed that there was no want of taste, though strength of understanding must not be expected. Altogether she was quite convinced of Harriet Smith’s being exactly the young friend she wanted—exactly the something which her home required. Such a friend as Mrs. Weston was out of the question. Two such could never be granted. Two such she did not want. It was quite a different sort of thing, a sentiment distinct and independent. Mrs. Weston was the object of a regard which had its basis in gratitude and esteem. Harriet would be loved as one to whom she could be useful. For Mrs. Weston there was nothing to be done; for Harriet every thing.
哈丽雅特当然不聪明，但她性情甜美、温顺、感恩，完全没有自负，只希望受到她所尊敬的人的指导。她早年对自己的依恋是非常和蔼可亲的。她对良朋益友的喜爱，以及欣赏优雅和聪明事物的能力，表明她并不缺乏品味，尽管不能指望她有很强的理解力。总而言之，她非常确信哈丽特·史密斯正是她想要的年轻朋友——正是她的家所需要的。像韦斯顿夫人这样的朋友是不可能的。永远不可能有两个这样的人。她不想要这样的两个。这是一种完全不同的东西，一种独特而独立的情感。韦斯顿夫人是人们尊敬的对象，这种尊敬是基于感激和尊敬。哈丽特会因为她能对她有用而受到爱戴。对于韦斯顿夫人来说，没有什么可做的。对于哈丽特来说，一切都是如此。

Her first attempts at usefulness were in an endeavour to find out who were the parents, but Harriet could not tell. She was ready to tell every thing in her power, but on this subject questions were vain. Emma was obliged to fancy what she liked—but she could never believe that in the same situation she should not have discovered the truth. Harriet had no penetration. She had been satisfied to hear and believe just what Mrs. Goddard chose to tell her; and looked no farther.
她的第一次尝试是为了找出孩子的父母是谁，但哈丽特却无法分辨。她已经准备好讲述她力所能及的一切，但关于这个问题的问题是徒劳的。艾玛不得不去想象她喜欢的东西——但她永远无法相信，在同样的情况下，她不应该发现真相。哈丽特没有穿透力。她很满意地听到并相信戈达德夫人选择告诉她的话。然后不再继续看。

Mrs. Goddard, and the teachers, and the girls and the affairs of the school in general, formed naturally a great part of the conversation—and but for her acquaintance with the Martins of Abbey-Mill Farm, it must have been the whole. But the Martins occupied her thoughts a good deal; she had spent two very happy months with them, and now loved to talk of the pleasures of her visit, and describe the many comforts and wonders of the place. Emma encouraged her talkativeness— amused by such a picture of another set of beings, and enjoying the youthful simplicity which could speak with so much exultation of Mrs. Martin’s having ‘two parlours, two very good parlours, indeed; one of them quite as large as Mrs. Goddard’s drawing-room; and of her having an upper maid who had lived five-and-twenty years with her; and of their having eight cows, two of them Alderneys, and one a little Welch cow, a very pretty little Welch cow indeed; and of Mrs. Martin’s saying as she was so fond of it, it should be called her cow; and of their having a very handsome summer-house in their garden, where some day next year they were all to drink tea:— a very handsome summer-house, large enough to hold a dozen people.’
戈达德夫人、老师们、女孩们以及学校的事务，自然而然地成为了谈话的重要组成部分——要不是她和艾比米尔农场的马丁一家很熟，谈话肯定就是全部了。但马丁一家却占据了她很多心思。她和他们一起度过了非常快乐的两个月，现在喜欢谈论她访问的乐趣，并描述这个地方的许多舒适和奇迹。爱玛鼓励她多说话——被另一群人的这样一幅图画逗乐了，她享受着年轻时的纯朴，这可以表达出马丁夫人拥有“两间客厅，两间非常好的客厅，确实；”的喜悦。其中一间与戈达德夫人的客厅一样大。还说她有一个和她一起生活了五二十年的上层女仆。他们有八头牛，其中两头是奥尔德尼牛，一头是韦尔奇小牛，确实是一头非常漂亮的韦尔奇小牛；马丁夫人说过，她很喜欢它，所以它应该被称为她的牛；他们的花园里有一座非常漂亮的避暑别墅，明年的某一天他们都会去那里喝茶：——一座非常漂亮的避暑别墅，大到足以容纳十几个人。

For some time she was amused, without thinking beyond the immediate cause; but as she came to understand the family better, other feelings arose. She had taken up a wrong idea, fancying it was a mother and daughter, a son and son’s wife, who all lived together; but when it appeared that the Mr. Martin, who bore a part in the narrative, and was always mentioned with approbation for his great good-nature in doing something or other, was a single man; that there was no young Mrs. Martin, no wife in the case; she did suspect danger to her poor little friend from all this hospitality and kindness, and that, if she were not taken care of, she might be required to sink herself forever.
有一段时间，她觉得好笑，但没有考虑到直接原因。但当她对这个家庭有了更多的了解后，其他的感觉又出现了。她的想法是错误的，以为这是母女，儿子和儿媳妇，他们都住在一起。但是，当马丁先生在故事中扮演了一个角色，并且总是因为他做某件事的伟大善良而受到赞扬时，他是一个单身汉；案件中没有年轻的马丁夫人，也没有妻子；她确实怀疑她可怜的小朋友的这种热情好客和善意会给她带来危险，如果她不得到照顾，她可能会被要求永远沉下去。

With this inspiriting notion, her questions increased in number and meaning; and she particularly led Harriet to talk more of Mr. Martin, and there was evidently no dislike to it. Harriet was very ready to speak of the share he had had in their moonlight walks and merry evening games; and dwelt a good deal upon his being so very good-humoured and obliging. He had gone three miles round one day in order to bring her some walnuts, because she had said how fond she was of them, and in every thing else he was so very obliging. He had his shepherd’s son into the parlour one night on purpose to sing to her. She was very fond of singing. He could sing a little himself. She believed he was very clever, and understood every thing. He had a very fine flock, and, while she was with them, he had been bid more for his wool than any body in the country. She believed every body spoke well of him. His mother and sisters were very fond of him. Mrs. Martin had told her one day (and there was a blush as she said it,) that it was impossible for any body to be a better son, and therefore she was sure, whenever he married, he would make a good husband. Not that she wanted him to marry. She was in no hurry at all.
有了这个鼓舞人心的想法，她的问题数量和意义都增加了。她还特别引导哈丽特更多地谈论马丁先生，显然没有什么不喜欢的。哈丽特很乐意谈论他在月光下散步和快乐的晚间游戏中所分享的经历。并详细描述了他的幽默和乐于助人。有一天，他绕了三英里，只为给她带来一些核桃，因为她说过她很喜欢核桃，而在其他事情上，他都非常乐于助人。一天晚上，他故意让牧羊人的儿子到客厅给她唱歌。她非常喜欢唱歌。他自己也会唱一点。她相信他很聪明，什么事情都明白。他有一群非常优秀的羊群，当她和他们在一起时，他的羊毛出价比全国任何人都高。她相信每个人都对他赞不绝口。他的母亲和姐妹们非常喜欢他。有一天，马丁太太告诉她（她说的时候脸红了），任何人都不可能成为一个更好的儿子，因此她确信，无论他何时结婚，他都会成为一个好丈夫。并不是说她希望他结婚。她一点也不着急。

‘Well done, Mrs. Martin!’ thought Emma. ‘You know what you are about.’
“干得好，马丁太太！”艾玛想。 “你知道自己在做什么。”

‘And when she had come away, Mrs. Martin was so very kind as to send Mrs. Goddard a beautiful goose—the finest goose Mrs. Goddard had ever seen. Mrs. Goddard had dressed it on a Sunday, and asked all the three teachers, Miss Nash, and Miss Prince, and Miss Richardson, to sup with her.’
“当她离开时，马丁夫人非常友善地送给戈达德夫人一只美丽的鹅——戈达德夫人见过的最好的鹅。戈达德夫人在周日穿上了它，并邀请三位老师——纳什小姐、普林斯小姐和理查森小姐——和她一起吃晚饭。

‘Mr. Martin, I suppose, is not a man of information beyond the line of his own business? He does not read?’
'先生。我想，马丁不是一个在自己的业务范围之外拥有丰富信息的人吗？他不读书吗？

‘Oh yes!—that is, no—I do not know—but I believe he has read a good deal—but not what you would think any thing of. He reads the Agricultural Reports, and some other books that lay in one of the window seats—but he reads all them to himself. But sometimes of an evening, before we went to cards, he would read something aloud out of the Elegant Extracts, very entertaining. And I know he has read the Vicar of Wakefield. He never read the Romance of the Forest, nor The Children of the Abbey. He had never heard of such books before I mentioned them, but he is determined to get them now as soon as ever he can.’
“哦，是的！——也就是说，不——我不知道——但我相信他读过很多书——但不是你想象的那样。他读《农业报告》，还有靠窗座位上的其他一些书——但都是他自己读的。但有时晚上，在我们打牌之前，他会大声朗读《优雅摘录》中的一些内容，非常有趣。我知道他读过《韦克菲尔德牧师》。他从未读过《森林传奇》，也没有读过《修道院之子》。在我提到这些书之前，他从未听说过这些书，但他决心现在就尽快得到它们。

The next question was—
下一个问题是——

‘What sort of looking man is Mr. Martin?’
“马丁先生是什么样的人？”

‘Oh! not handsome—not at all handsome. I thought him very plain at first, but I do not think him so plain now. One does not, you know, after a time. But did you never see him? He is in Highbury every now and then, and he is sure to ride through every week in his way to Kingston. He has passed you very often.’
'哦！不英俊——一点也不英俊。起初我觉得他很朴素，但现在我觉得他不那么朴素了。你知道，过了一段时间后就不会了。但你从来没有见过他吗？他时不时地会去海布里，而且他肯定每周都会骑车前往金斯顿。他经常从你身边经过。

‘That may be, and I may have seen him fifty times, but without having any idea of his name. A young farmer, whether on horseback or on foot, is the very last sort of person to raise my curiosity. The yeomanry are precisely the order of people with whom I feel I can have nothing to do. A degree or two lower, and a creditable appearance might interest me; I might hope to be useful to their families in some way or other. But a farmer can need none of my help, and is, therefore, in one sense, as much above my notice as in every other he is below it.’
“也许是这样，我可能见过他五十次，但不知道他的名字。年轻的农民，无论是骑马还是步行，都是最不会引起我好奇心的人。自耕农正是我觉得与他们无关的一群人。低一两度，漂亮的外表可能会让我感兴趣；我可能希望以某种方式对他们的家人有用。但农民不需要我的帮助，因此，从某种意义上说，他在我的注意之下，就像在其他方面一样，他在我的注意之下。

‘To be sure. Oh yes! It is not likely you should ever have observed him; but he knows you very well indeed—I mean by sight.’
'为了确定。哦是的！你本来就不应该观察他；但他确实很了解你——我是说通过视觉。”

‘I have no doubt of his being a very respectable young man. I know, indeed, that he is so, and, as such, wish him well. What do you imagine his age to be?’
“我毫不怀疑他是一个非常值得尊敬的年轻人。我确实知道他就是这样，因此，祝他一切顺利。你猜他的年龄是多少？

‘He was four-and-twenty the 8th of last June, and my birthday is the 23rd just a fortnight and a day’s difference—which is very odd.’
“去年 6 月 8 日他四岁二十岁，而我的生日是 23 日，仅仅相差两周零一天——这很奇怪。”

‘Only four-and-twenty. That is too young to settle. His mother is perfectly right not to be in a hurry. They seem very comfortable as they are, and if she were to take any pains to marry him, she would probably repent it. Six years hence, if he could meet with a good sort of young woman in the same rank as his own, with a little money, it might be very desirable.’
“只有四点二十。”那太年轻了，无法解决。他的母亲不着急是完全正确的。他们看起来很舒服，如果她费尽心思嫁给他，她可能会后悔。六年后，如果他能遇到一位与自己地位相当的好姑娘，而且还有点钱，那就太好了。

‘Six years hence! Dear Miss Woodhouse, he would be thirty years old!’
‘六年后！亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，他已经三十岁了！

‘Well, and that is as early as most men can afford to marry, who are not born to an independence. Mr. Martin, I imagine, has his fortune entirely to make—cannot be at all beforehand with the world. Whatever money he might come into when his father died, whatever his share of the family property, it is, I dare say, all afloat, all employed in his stock, and so forth; and though, with diligence and good luck, he may be rich in time, it is next to impossible that he should have realised any thing yet.’
“好吧，那是大多数男人有能力结婚的最早时间，他们并不是生来就独立的。我想，马丁先生完全有他的财富要创造——根本不可能提前与世界接触。无论他父亲去世后他能赚多少钱，无论他在家庭财产中所占的份额如何，我敢说，他的财产都是浮动的，全部都用在他的股票上，等等。虽然，凭借勤奋和好运气，他的时间可能很丰富，但他几乎不可能意识到任何事情。

‘To be sure, so it is. But they live very comfortably. They have no indoors man, else they do not want for any thing; and Mrs. Martin talks of taking a boy another year.’
‘当然，确实如此。但他们生活得很舒适。他们没有室内男人，否则他们什么也不要；马丁夫人谈到要再带一个男孩一年。

‘I wish you may not get into a scrape, Harriet, whenever he does marry;—I mean, as to being acquainted with his wife—for though his sisters, from a superior education, are not to be altogether objected to, it does not follow that he might marry any body at all fit for you to notice. The misfortune of your birth ought to make you particularly careful as to your associates. There can be no doubt of your being a gentleman’s daughter, and you must support your claim to that station by every thing within your own power, or there will be plenty of people who would take pleasure in degrading you.’
“我希望哈里特，每当他结婚的时候，你都不要陷入困境；——我的意思是，至于与他的妻子相熟——因为虽然他的姐妹们受过良好的教育，不应该完全反对，但确实如此。不要认为他可能会与任何适合你注意到的人结婚。你出生的不幸应该让你对你的朋友特别小心。毫无疑问，你是一位绅士的女儿，你必须尽一切努力来支持你对这一地位的要求，否则会有很多人乐于贬低你。

‘Yes, to be sure, I suppose there are. But while I visit at Hartfield, and you are so kind to me, Miss Woodhouse, I am not afraid of what any body can do.’
“是的，当然，我想是有的。但是，当我访问哈特菲尔德时，伍德豪斯小姐，你对我非常友善，我不害怕任何人可以做的事情。

‘You understand the force of influence pretty well, Harriet; but I would have you so firmly established in good society, as to be independent even of Hartfield and Miss Woodhouse. I want to see you permanently well connected, and to that end it will be advisable to have as few odd acquaintance as may be; and, therefore, I say that if you should still be in this country when Mr. Martin marries, I wish you may not be drawn in by your intimacy with the sisters, to be acquainted with the wife, who will probably be some mere farmer’s daughter, without education.’
“你非常了解影响力，哈丽特；但我希望你能在上流社会中站稳脚跟，甚至独立于哈特菲尔德和伍德豪斯小姐。我希望看到你们永远保持良好的联系，为此，建议尽可能少结识奇怪的人；因此，我说，如果马丁先生结婚时你还在这个国家，我希望你不要被你与姐妹们的亲密关系所吸引，去认识他的妻子，她可能只是一个农民的妻子。女儿，没有受过教育。

‘To be sure. Yes. Not that I think Mr. Martin would ever marry any body but what had had some education—and been very well brought up. However, I do not mean to set up my opinion against your’s—and I am sure I shall not wish for the acquaintance of his wife. I shall always have a great regard for the Miss Martins, especially Elizabeth, and should be very sorry to give them up, for they are quite as well educated as me. But if he marries a very ignorant, vulgar woman, certainly I had better not visit her, if I can help it.’
'为了确定。是的。我并不认为马丁先生会与任何人结婚，除非是受过一些教育并受过良好教育的人。然而，我无意以我的观点反对你的观点——而且我确信我不希望认识他的妻子。我将永远非常尊重马丁小姐，尤其是伊丽莎白，并且对于放弃她们感到非常遗憾，因为她们和我一样受过良好的教育。但如果他娶了一个非常无知、粗俗的女人，我当然最好不要去看她，如果我可以的话。

Emma watched her through the fluctuations of this speech, and saw no alarming symptoms of love. The young man had been the first admirer, but she trusted there was no other hold, and that there would be no serious difficulty, on Harriet’s side, to oppose any friendly arrangement of her own.
艾玛看着她这段话的波动，没有看到任何令人震惊的爱情迹象。这个年轻人是第一个仰慕者，但她相信没有其他的理由，而且哈丽特方面反对她自己的任何友好安排也不会有什么严重的困难。

They met Mr. Martin the very next day, as they were walking on the Donwell road. He was on foot, and after looking very respectfully at her, looked with most unfeigned satisfaction at her companion. Emma was not sorry to have such an opportunity of survey; and walking a few yards forward, while they talked together, soon made her quick eye sufficiently acquainted with Mr. Robert Martin. His appearance was very neat, and he looked like a sensible young man, but his person had no other advantage; and when he came to be contrasted with gentlemen, she thought he must lose all the ground he had gained in Harriet’s inclination. Harriet was not insensible of manner; she had voluntarily noticed her father’s gentleness with admiration as well as wonder. Mr. Martin looked as if he did not know what manner was.
第二天，当他们走在唐威尔路上时，他们遇到了马丁先生。他步行着，非常恭敬地看了她一眼，然后又用最真诚的满足感看了看她的同伴。艾玛并不后悔有这样一个调查的机会；他们一起交谈时，向前走了几码，很快，她敏锐的目光就足够熟悉罗伯特·马丁先生了。他的外表很整洁，看起来像是一个懂事的年轻人，但他的人没有其他优点；当他与绅士们相比时，她认为他一定会失去哈丽特的倾向。哈丽特并非不拘礼节；她不自觉地注意到了父亲的温柔，既钦佩又惊奇。马丁先生看起来好像不知道什么是礼貌。

They remained but a few minutes together, as Miss Woodhouse must not be kept waiting; and Harriet then came running to her with a smiling face, and in a flutter of spirits, which Miss Woodhouse hoped very soon to compose.
他们只待了几分钟，因为伍德豪斯小姐不能一直等待。哈丽雅特满面笑容地朝她跑来，心情激动不已，伍德豪斯小姐希望很快就能做到这一点。

‘Only think of our happening to meet him!—How very odd! It was quite a chance, he said, that he had not gone round by Randalls. He did not think we ever walked this road. He thought we walked towards Randalls most days. He has not been able to get the Romance of the Forest yet. He was so busy the last time he was at Kingston that he quite forgot it, but he goes again to-morrow. So very odd we should happen to meet! Well, Miss Woodhouse, is he like what you expected? What do you think of him? Do you think him so very plain?’
“想想我们碰巧遇见了他！——多么奇怪啊！”他说，他很有可能没有绕过兰德尔斯。他不认为我们曾经走过这条路。他以为我们大部分时间都朝兰德尔斯走去。他还没有拿到森林奇缘。上次去金斯敦时他太忙了，完全忘记了，但明天他又去了。我们竟然碰面，真是太奇怪了！那么，伍德豪斯小姐，他是你所期望的那样吗？你觉得他怎么样？你觉得他这么朴素吗？

‘He is very plain, undoubtedly—remarkably plain:—but that is nothing compared with his entire want of gentility. I had no right to expect much, and I did not expect much; but I had no idea that he could be so very clownish, so totally without air. I had imagined him, I confess, a degree or two nearer gentility.’
“毫无疑问，他非常朴素——非常朴素：——但与他完全缺乏绅士风度相比，这根本不算什么。我没有权利期待太多，我也没有期待太多；但我不知道他可以如此滑稽，如此毫无气度。我承认，我想象中的他比他更绅士一两度。

‘To be sure,’ said Harriet, in a mortified voice, ‘he is not so genteel as real gentlemen.’
“当然，”哈丽特用一种羞愧的声音说道，“他并不像真正的绅士那么文雅。”

‘I think, Harriet, since your acquaintance with us, you have been repeatedly in the company of some such very real gentlemen, that you must yourself be struck with the difference in Mr. Martin. At Hartfield, you have had very good specimens of well educated, well bred men. I should be surprized if, after seeing them, you could be in company with Mr. Martin again without perceiving him to be a very inferior creature—and rather wondering at yourself for having ever thought him at all agreeable before. Do not you begin to feel that now? Were not you struck? I am sure you must have been struck by his awkward look and abrupt manner, and the uncouthness of a voice which I heard to be wholly unmodulated as I stood here.’
“我想，哈丽特，自从你认识我们以来，你已经多次与一些如此真正的绅士在一起，你自己一定对马丁先生的与众不同感到震惊。在哈特菲尔德，你拥有受过良好教育、有良好教养的优秀人才。如果在看到他们之后，你能再次与马丁先生在一起，而不会认为他是一个非常低等的人，并且会奇怪自己以前是否认为他是令人愉快的，我会感到惊讶。你现在不也开始有这种感觉了吗？你没有被击中吗？我相信你一定被他尴尬的表情、唐突的举止以及我站在这里时听到的粗鲁的声音所震惊。

‘Certainly, he is not like Mr. Knightley. He has not such a fine air and way of walking as Mr. Knightley. I see the difference plain enough. But Mr. Knightley is so very fine a man!’
“当然，他不像奈特利先生。他的神态和走路方式都不如奈特利先生。我很清楚地看到了差异。但奈特利先生是一个非常好的人！”

‘Mr. Knightley’s air is so remarkably good that it is not fair to compare Mr. Martin with him. You might not see one in a hundred with gentleman so plainly written as in Mr. Knightley. But he is not the only gentleman you have been lately used to. What say you to Mr. Weston and Mr. Elton? Compare Mr. Martin with either of them. Compare their manner of carrying themselves; of walking; of speaking; of being silent. You must see the difference.’
'先生。奈特利的气质非常好，以至于将马丁先生与他进行比较是不公平的。你可能不会看到百分之一的绅士像奈特利先生那样直白地写出来。但他并不是你最近习惯的唯一一位绅士。您对韦斯顿先生和埃尔顿先生有何看法？将马丁先生与他们中的任何一个进行比较。比较他们的举止方式；步行；说话的；保持沉默。你一定能看到其中的区别。

‘Oh yes!—there is a great difference. But Mr. Weston is almost an old man. Mr. Weston must be between forty and fifty.’
‘哦，是的！——有很大的不同。但韦斯顿先生几乎已经是个老人了。韦斯顿先生一定在四十岁到五十岁之间。

‘Which makes his good manners the more valuable. The older a person grows, Harriet, the more important it is that their manners should not be bad; the more glaring and disgusting any loudness, or coarseness, or awkwardness becomes. What is passable in youth is detestable in later age. Mr. Martin is now awkward and abrupt; what will he be at Mr. Weston’s time of life?’
‘这使得他的良好举止更有价值。哈里特，一个人年纪越大，他们的举止不应该变坏就越重要；任何响亮、粗俗或尴尬都会变得更加刺眼和令人厌恶。年轻时还过得去的事，到了晚年就变得令人厌恶了。马丁先生现在显得笨拙而唐突。在韦斯顿先生的一生中，他会是什么样子？

‘There is no saying, indeed,’ replied Harriet rather solemnly.
“确实没有什么说法，”哈丽雅特相当严肃地回答道。

‘But there may be pretty good guessing. He will be a completely gross, vulgar farmer, totally inattentive to appearances, and thinking of nothing but profit and loss.’
'但可能有很好的猜测。他将是一个完全粗鄙、庸俗的农民，完全不顾外表，只考虑利润和损失。

‘Will he, indeed? That will be very bad.’
“他真的会吗？那将非常糟糕。

‘How much his business engrosses him already is very plain from the circumstance of his forgetting to inquire for the book you recommended. He was a great deal too full of the market to think of any thing else—which is just as it should be, for a thriving man. What has he to do with books? And I have no doubt that he will thrive, and be a very rich man in time—and his being illiterate and coarse need not disturb us.’
“从他忘记询问你推荐的书的情况来看，他的生意已经让他投入了多少精力，这一点就很明显了。”他太关注市场了，无暇考虑任何其他事情——对于一个蒸蒸日上的人来说，这是理所应当的。他和书有什么关系？我毫不怀疑他会茁壮成长，并成为一个非常富有的人，而他的文盲和粗俗不必打扰我们。

‘I wonder he did not remember the book’—was all Harriet’s answer, and spoken with a degree of grave displeasure which Emma thought might be safely left to itself. She, therefore, said no more for some time. Her next beginning was,
“我不知道他不记得那本书了”——哈丽特的回答全是这样，语气中带着某种程度的严重不满，艾玛认为这可以放心地留给自己。于是，她一时间没有再说什么。她的下一个开始是，

‘In one respect, perhaps, Mr. Elton’s manners are superior to Mr. Knightley’s or Mr. Weston’s. They have more gentleness. They might be more safely held up as a pattern. There is an openness, a quickness, almost a bluntness in Mr. Weston, which every body likes in him, because there is so much good-humour with it—but that would not do to be copied. Neither would Mr. Knightley’s downright, decided, commanding sort of manner, though it suits him very well; his figure, and look, and situation in life seem to allow it; but if any young man were to set about copying him, he would not be sufferable. On the contrary, I think a young man might be very safely recommended to take Mr. Elton as a model. Mr. Elton is good-humoured, cheerful, obliging, and gentle. He seems to me to be grown particularly gentle of late. I do not know whether he has any design of ingratiating himself with either of us, Harriet, by additional softness, but it strikes me that his manners are softer than they used to be. If he means any thing, it must be to please you. Did not I tell you what he said of you the other day?’
“也许，在某一方面，埃尔顿先生的举止比奈特利先生或韦斯顿先生优越。他们多了一份温柔。将它们作为一种模式可能会更安全。韦斯顿先生有一种开放、敏捷、几乎是直率的性格，这是每个人都喜欢的，因为他身上有很多幽默感——但这并不能被模仿。奈特利先生那种彻头彻尾、果断、发号施令的态度也不太适合他，尽管这很适合他。他的身材、外貌和生活状况似乎都允许这样做；但如果哪个年轻人要效仿他，他就受不了了。相反，我认为可以非常安全地推荐一个年轻人以埃尔顿先生为榜样。埃尔顿先生幽默、开朗、乐于助人、温柔。在我看来，他最近变得特别温柔。我不知道他是否有意通过额外的温柔来讨好我们哈里特，但令我印象深刻的是，他的举止比以前更加温和了。如果他有什么意思，那一定是为了取悦你。我不是告诉过你他那天对你说的话了吗？

She then repeated some warm personal praise which she had drawn from Mr. Elton, and now did full justice to; and Harriet blushed and smiled, and said she had always thought Mr. Elton very agreeable.
然后，她重复了埃尔顿先生对她个人的一些热烈的赞扬，这些赞扬现在得到了充分的公正评价。哈丽雅特脸红了，微笑着说，她一直认为埃尔顿先生非常和蔼可亲。

Mr. Elton was the very person fixed on by Emma for driving the young farmer out of Harriet’s head. She thought it would be an excellent match; and only too palpably desirable, natural, and probable, for her to have much merit in planning it. She feared it was what every body else must think of and predict. It was not likely, however, that any body should have equalled her in the date of the plan, as it had entered her brain during the very first evening of Harriet’s coming to Hartfield. The longer she considered it, the greater was her sense of its expediency. Mr. Elton’s situation was most suitable, quite the gentleman himself, and without low connexions; at the same time, not of any family that could fairly object to the doubtful birth of Harriet. He had a comfortable home for her, and Emma imagined a very sufficient income; for though the vicarage of Highbury was not large, he was known to have some independent property; and she thought very highly of him as a good-humoured, well-meaning, respectable young man, without any deficiency of useful understanding or knowledge of the world.
埃尔顿先生正是艾玛盯上的人，因为他把年轻农民从哈丽特的脑海中赶走了。她认为这将是一场绝妙的比赛；对她来说，这显然是令人向往的、自然的和可能的，因此她在计划这件事上有很多优点。她担心这是每个人都必须想到和预测的。然而，不可能有任何人能在计划的日期上与她匹敌，因为这个计划是在哈丽特来到哈特菲尔德的第一个晚上就进入了她的大脑。她考虑得越久，就越觉得这样做是有利的。埃尔顿先生的处境是最合适的，他本身就是一位绅士，而且没有什么低层关系。与此同时，没有任何一个家庭能够完全反对哈丽特的可疑出生。他为她提供了一个舒适的家，艾玛想象中的收入非常充足。因为虽然海布里的牧师住宅并不大，但众所周知他拥有一些独立的财产。她对他评价很高，认为他是一个幽默、善意、值得尊敬的年轻人，对世界没有任何有用的理解或知识的缺乏。

She had already satisfied herself that he thought Harriet a beautiful girl, which she trusted, with such frequent meetings at Hartfield, was foundation enough on his side; and on Harriet’s there could be little doubt that the idea of being preferred by him would have all the usual weight and efficacy. And he was really a very pleasing young man, a young man whom any woman not fastidious might like. He was reckoned very handsome; his person much admired in general, though not by her, there being a want of elegance of feature which she could not dispense with:—but the girl who could be gratified by a Robert Martin’s riding about the country to get walnuts for her might very well be conquered by Mr. Elton’s admiration.
她已经确信他认为哈丽特是一个美丽的女孩，她相信，在哈特菲尔德经常见面，她相信哈丽特是他这一边的足够基础；对哈丽特来说，毫无疑问，受到他青睐的想法将具有所有通常的分量和效力。而且他确实是一个非常讨人喜欢的年轻人，一个任何不挑剔的女人都会喜欢的年轻人。人们认为他非常英俊；总的来说，他的人很受人钦佩，尽管不是她所钦佩的，因为他缺乏优雅的特征，这是她无法忽视的：——但是，如果一个女孩能够因为罗伯特·马丁在乡下骑马为她买核桃而感到满足，那么她可能会很高兴。我们会被埃尔顿先生的钦佩所征服。

Chapter V
第五章

‘I do not know what your opinion may be, Mrs. Weston,’ said Mr. Knightley, ‘of this great intimacy between Emma and Harriet Smith, but I think it a bad thing.’
“韦斯顿夫人，我不知道您对艾玛和哈丽特·史密斯之间的这种亲密关系有何看法，但我认为这是一件坏事。”奈特利先生说。

‘A bad thing! Do you really think it a bad thing?— why so?’
‘坏事！你真的认为这是一件坏事吗？——为什么呢？

‘I think they will neither of them do the other any good.’
“我认为他们不会给对方带来任何好处。”

‘You surprize me! Emma must do Harriet good: and by supplying her with a new object of interest, Harriet may be said to do Emma good. I have been seeing their intimacy with the greatest pleasure. How very differently we feel!—Not think they will do each other any good! This will certainly be the beginning of one of our quarrels about Emma, Mr. Knightley.’
‘你让我很惊讶！艾玛必须为哈丽特做好事：通过为她提供一个新的兴趣对象，哈丽特可以说是为艾玛做好了事。我非常高兴地看到他们的亲密关系。我们的感受多么不同啊！——不认为他们会对彼此有任何好处！这肯定会成为我们关于艾玛的争吵的开始之一，奈特利先生。

‘Perhaps you think I am come on purpose to quarrel with you, knowing Weston to be out, and that you must still fight your own battle.’
“也许你认为我是故意来和你吵架的，因为我知道韦斯顿不在了，而你仍然必须为自己而战。”

‘Mr. Weston would undoubtedly support me, if he were here, for he thinks exactly as I do on the subject. We were speaking of it only yesterday, and agreeing how fortunate it was for Emma, that there should be such a girl in Highbury for her to associate with. Mr. Knightley, I shall not allow you to be a fair judge in this case. You are so much used to live alone, that you do not know the value of a companion; and, perhaps no man can be a good judge of the comfort a woman feels in the society of one of her own sex, after being used to it all her life. I can imagine your objection to Harriet Smith. She is not the superior young woman which Emma’s friend ought to be. But on the other hand, as Emma wants to see her better informed, it will be an inducement to her to read more herself. They will read together. She means it, I know.’
'先生。如果韦斯顿在这里的话，他无疑会支持我，因为他在这个问题上的想法和我完全一样。我们昨天才谈到这件事，并同意艾玛是多么幸运，海布里有这样一个女孩可以和她交往。奈特利先生，我不会让你在这起案件中担任公正的法官。你太习惯一个人的生活，不知道同伴的可贵；而且，也许没有一个男人能够很好地判断一个女人在习惯了一生之后在同性社会中感受到的舒适度。我可以想象你对哈丽特·史密斯的反对。她并不是艾玛朋友应有的优秀年轻女性。但另一方面，由于艾玛希望看到她更了解情况，这将成为她自己阅读更多内容的诱因。他们将一起阅读。我知道她是认真的。

‘Emma has been meaning to read more ever since she was twelve years old. I have seen a great many lists of her drawing-up at various times of books that she meant to read regularly through—and very good lists they were—very well chosen, and very neatly arranged—sometimes alphabetically, and sometimes by some other rule. The list she drew up when only fourteen—I remember thinking it did her judgment so much credit, that I preserved it some time; and I dare say she may have made out a very good list now. But I have done with expecting any course of steady reading from Emma. She will never submit to any thing requiring industry and patience, and a subjection of the fancy to the understanding. Where Miss Taylor failed to stimulate, I may safely affirm that Harriet Smith will do nothing.— You never could persuade her to read half so much as you wished.—You know you could not.’
“艾玛从十二岁起就一直想多读书。我见过她在不同时期列出的很多书单，她打算定期阅读这些书单，这些书单都非常好，经过精心挑选，排列得非常整齐，有时按字母顺序排列，有时按其他规则排列。 。她在十四岁的时候就列出了这份清单——我记得我认为这对她的判断非常有帮助，所以我把它保存了一段时间；我敢说她现在可能已经列出了一份非常好的清单。但我已经不再期待艾玛会持续阅读任何课程了。她永远不会屈服于任何需要勤奋和耐心，以及需要理解的幻想的事情。在泰勒小姐未能刺激的地方，我可以肯定哈丽特·史密斯不会采取任何行动。——你永远无法说服她读你希望的一半。——你知道你不能。

‘I dare say,’ replied Mrs. Weston, smiling, ‘that I thought so then;—but since we have parted, I can never remember Emma’s omitting to do any thing I wished.’
“我敢说，”韦斯顿夫人微笑着回答，“我当时就是这么想的；——但自从我们分手后，我就永远不记得艾玛没有做任何我想做的事。”

‘There is hardly any desiring to refresh such a memory as that,’—said Mr. Knightley, feelingly; and for a moment or two he had done. ‘But I,’ he soon added, ‘who have had no such charm thrown over my senses, must still see, hear, and remember. Emma is spoiled by being the cleverest of her family. At ten years old, she had the misfortune of being able to answer questions which puzzled her sister at seventeen. She was always quick and assured: Isabella slow and diffident. And ever since she was twelve, Emma has been mistress of the house and of you all. In her mother she lost the only person able to cope with her. She inherits her mother’s talents, and must have been under subjection to her.’
“几乎没有人愿意去唤起这样的记忆，”奈特利先生感慨地说。有一两分钟他就这么做了。 “但是我，”他很快又补充道，“虽然我的感官没有受到过这样的魅力，但我仍然必须看到、听到和记住。”艾玛被宠坏了，因为她是家里最聪明的一个。十岁时，她不幸能够回答十七岁姐姐所困惑的问题。她总是动作敏捷而自信；伊莎贝拉则缓慢而羞怯。从十二岁起，艾玛就成了这个房子的女主人，也是你们大家的女主人。她失去了唯一能够与她相处的人。她继承了她母亲的才能，并且一定受到她母亲的支配。

‘I should have been sorry, Mr. Knightley, to be dependent on your recommendation, had I quitted Mr. Woodhouse’s family and wanted another situation; I do not think you would have spoken a good word for me to any body. I am sure you always thought me unfit for the office I held.’
“奈特利先生，如果我离开伍德豪斯先生的家庭并想要另一种情况，我会感到抱歉，因为我依赖你的推荐；我认为你不会对任何人为我说好话。我确信你一直认为我不适合担任我所担任的职务。

‘Yes,’ said he, smiling. ‘You are better placed here; very fit for a wife, but not at all for a governess. But you were preparing yourself to be an excellent wife all the time you were at Hartfield. You might not give Emma such a complete education as your powers would seem to promise; but you were receiving a very good education from her, on the very material matrimonial point of submitting your own will, and doing as you were bid; and if Weston had asked me to recommend him a wife, I should certainly have named Miss Taylor.’
“是的，”他微笑着说。 ‘你在这里的位置更好；非常适合妻子，但完全不适合家庭教师。但当你在哈特菲尔德的时候，你一直在准备成为一名优秀的妻子。你可能不会像你的能力所承诺的那样给艾玛提供如此完整的教育；但你从她那里得到了很好的教育，在婚姻的物质方面，你要服从自己的意愿，并按要求行事；如果韦斯顿让我为他推荐一位妻子，我当然应该推荐泰勒小姐。

‘Thank you. There will be very little merit in making a good wife to such a man as Mr. Weston.’
'谢谢。为韦斯顿先生这样的男人做一个好妻子是没有什么好处的。

‘Why, to own the truth, I am afraid you are rather thrown away, and that with every disposition to bear, there will be nothing to be borne. We will not despair, however. Weston may grow cross from the wantonness of comfort, or his son may plague him.’
‘哎呀，要承认真相，我恐怕你会被抛弃，尽管你愿意承受一切，但你却什么也承受不了。然而，我们不会绝望。韦斯顿可能会因为放纵的舒适而变得愤怒，或者他的儿子可能会困扰他。

‘I hope not that.—It is not likely. No, Mr. Knightley, do not foretell vexation from that quarter.’
“我希望不是这样。——不太可能。”不，奈特利先生，不要预言那个季度会出现烦恼。

‘Not I, indeed. I only name possibilities. I do not pretend to Emma’s genius for foretelling and guessing. I hope, with all my heart, the young man may be a Weston in merit, and a Churchill in fortune.—But Harriet Smith—I have not half done about Harriet Smith. I think her the very worst sort of companion that Emma could possibly have. She knows nothing herself, and looks upon Emma as knowing every thing. She is a flatterer in all her ways; and so much the worse, because undesigned. Her ignorance is hourly flattery. How can Emma imagine she has any thing to learn herself, while Harriet is presenting such a delightful inferiority? And as for Harriet, I will venture to say that she cannot gain by the acquaintance. Hartfield will only put her out of conceit with all the other places she belongs to. She will grow just refined enough to be uncomfortable with those among whom birth and circumstances have placed her home. I am much mistaken if Emma’s doctrines give any strength of mind, or tend at all to make a girl adapt herself rationally to the varieties of her situation in life.—They only give a little polish.’
“确实不是我。我只列举可能性。我不会假装艾玛有预言和猜测的天赋。我全心全意地希望，这个年轻人在功绩上可以成为韦斯顿，在财富上可以成为丘吉尔。——但是哈丽特·史密斯——我对哈丽特·史密斯的了解还没有一半。我认为她是艾玛可能遇到的最糟糕的伴侣。她自己什么都不知道，却认为艾玛无所不知。她在各方面都很阿谀奉承。更糟糕的是，因为未经设计。她的无知就是每小时的奉承。艾玛怎么能想象她自己有什么东西要学，而哈丽特却表现得如此令人愉快的自卑呢？至于哈丽特，我敢说她不会从相识中获益。哈特菲尔德只会让她与她所属的所有其他地方失去自负。她会变得足够优雅，以至于对那些出生和环境把她安顿在其中的人感到不舒服。如果艾玛的教义能给人心灵的力量，或者让女孩理性地适应生活中的各种情况，那我就大错特错了。——它们只是做了一点修饰。

‘I either depend more upon Emma’s good sense than you do, or am more anxious for her present comfort; for I cannot lament the acquaintance. How well she looked last night!’
“我要么比你更依赖艾玛的判断力，要么更渴望她目前的舒适；因为我不能为相识而悲伤。她昨晚看起来多好啊！

‘Oh! you would rather talk of her person than her mind, would you? Very well; I shall not attempt to deny Emma’s being pretty.’
'哦！你更愿意谈论她的人而不是她的想法，是吗？很好;我不会试图否认艾玛的美丽。

‘Pretty! say beautiful rather. Can you imagine any thing nearer perfect beauty than Emma altogether— face and figure?’
'漂亮的！说漂亮还不如。你能想象有什么比艾玛更接近完美的美丽——脸蛋和身材吗？

‘I do not know what I could imagine, but I confess that I have seldom seen a face or figure more pleasing to me than hers. But I am a partial old friend.’
“我不知道我能想象出什么，但我承认我很少见过比她更令我满意的面孔或身材。但我是一个部分的老朋友。

‘Such an eye!—the true hazle eye—and so brilliant! regular features, open countenance, with a complexion! oh! what a bloom of full health, and such a pretty height and size; such a firm and upright figure! There is health, not merely in her bloom, but in her air, her head, her glance. One hears sometimes of a child being ‘the picture of health;’ now, Emma always gives me the idea of being the complete picture of grown-up health. She is loveliness itself. Mr. Knightley, is not she?’
“这样的眼睛！——真正的淡褐色眼睛——而且如此明亮！五官端正，面容开朗，有气色！哦！多么健康的花朵，多么漂亮的身高和体型啊！多么坚毅挺拔的身材啊！健康不仅存在于她的绽放中，还存在于她的空气、她的头脑和她的目光中。人们有时会听说孩子是“健康的写照”；现在，艾玛总是给我这样的想法：孩子是成人健康的完整写照。她本身就是可爱。奈特利先生，不是吗？

‘I have not a fault to find with her person,’ he replied. ‘I think her all you describe. I love to look at her; and I will add this praise, that I do not think her personally vain. Considering how very handsome she is, she appears to be little occupied with it; her vanity lies another way. Mrs. Weston, I am not to be talked out of my dislike of Harriet Smith, or my dread of its doing them both harm.’
“我在她身上找不到任何毛病，”他回答道。 “我认为她就是你所描述的那样。我喜欢看她；我还要补充一点，我不认为她个人虚荣。考虑到她非常英俊，她似乎对此并不在意。她的虚荣心却以另一种方式存在。韦斯顿夫人，不要因为我不喜欢哈丽特·史密斯，或者担心这对他们俩造成伤害而说我不喜欢。

‘And I, Mr. Knightley, am equally stout in my confidence of its not doing them any harm. With all dear Emma’s little faults, she is an excellent creature. Where shall we see a better daughter, or a kinder sister, or a truer friend? No, no; she has qualities which may be trusted; she will never lead any one really wrong; she will make no lasting blunder; where Emma errs once, she is in the right a hundred times.’
“我，奈特利先生，同样坚定地相信这不会对他们造成任何伤害。尽管亲爱的艾玛有很多小缺点，她仍然是一个优秀的人。我们在哪里可以看到更好的女儿，更友善的姐妹，或更真诚的朋友？不，不;她具有值得信赖的品质；她永远不会引导任何人真正走错路；她不会犯下持久的错误；艾玛犯了一次错误，但她一百次都是对的。

‘Very well; I will not plague you any more. Emma shall be an angel, and I will keep my spleen to myself till Christmas brings John and Isabella. John loves Emma with a reasonable and therefore not a blind affection, and Isabella always thinks as he does; except when he is not quite frightened enough about the children. I am sure of having their opinions with me.’
'很好;我不会再为难你了。艾玛将成为天使，我会保守自己的脾气，直到圣诞节带来约翰和伊莎贝拉。约翰对艾玛的爱是合理的，因此不是盲目的，而伊莎贝拉也总是和他一样思考。除非他对孩子们还不够害怕。我确信他们的意见与我有关。

‘I know that you all love her really too well to be unjust or unkind; but excuse me, Mr. Knightley, if I take the liberty (I consider myself, you know, as having somewhat of the privilege of speech that Emma’s mother might have had) the liberty of hinting that I do not think any possible good can arise from Harriet Smith’s intimacy being made a matter of much discussion among you. Pray excuse me; but supposing any little inconvenience may be apprehended from the intimacy, it cannot be expected that Emma, accountable to nobody but her father, who perfectly approves the acquaintance, should put an end to it, so long as it is a source of pleasure to herself. It has been so many years my province to give advice, that you cannot be surprized, Mr. Knightley, at this little remains of office.’
“我知道你们都非常爱她，不会不公正或不友善；但是请原谅，奈特利先生，如果我冒昧地（你知道，我认为自己拥有艾玛的母亲可能拥有的某种言论特权）冒昧地暗示我认为不会出现任何可能的好处哈丽特·史密斯的亲密关系成为你们之间讨论的焦点。请原谅；但是，假设这种亲密关系可能会带来任何不便，那么就不能指望艾玛应该结束这种亲密关系，因为她只对她的父亲负责，而她的父亲完全赞同这种相识，只要这对她来说是快乐的源泉。 。我多年来一直致力于提供建议，奈特利先生，您对这一点余留的职位不会感到惊讶。

‘Not at all,’ cried he; ‘I am much obliged to you for it. It is very good advice, and it shall have a better fate than your advice has often found; for it shall be attended to.’
“一点也不，”他喊道。 “我非常感谢你。这是非常好的建议，它的命运将比你的建议常常得到的更好。因为它应该受到关注。

‘Mrs. John Knightley is easily alarmed, and might be made unhappy about her sister.’
'太太。约翰·奈特利很容易惊慌，可能会对她的妹妹感到不高兴。

‘Be satisfied,’ said he, ‘I will not raise any outcry. I will keep my ill-humour to myself. I have a very sincere interest in Emma. Isabella does not seem more my sister; has never excited a greater interest; perhaps hardly so great. There is an anxiety, a curiosity in what one feels for Emma. I wonder what will become of her!’
“放心吧，”他说，“我不会提出任何抗议。”我会把我的坏脾气留给自己。我对艾玛抱有非常真诚的兴趣。伊莎贝拉看起来不再是我的妹妹；她是我的妹妹。从未激发过如此大的兴趣；或许还没有那么伟大。人们对艾玛的感觉充满了焦虑和好奇。我想知道她会怎么样！

‘So do I,’ said Mrs. Weston gently, ‘very much.’
“我也是，”韦斯顿夫人温和地说，“非常喜欢。”

‘She always declares she will never marry, which, of course, means just nothing at all. But I have no idea that she has yet ever seen a man she cared for. It would not be a bad thing for her to be very much in love with a proper object. I should like to see Emma in love, and in some doubt of a return; it would do her good. But there is nobody hereabouts to attach her; and she goes so seldom from home.’
“她总是宣称自己永远不会结婚，当然，这毫无意义。但我不知道她见过她关心的男人。对于她来说，深爱一个合适的对象，也不是什么坏事。我希望看到艾玛陷入爱情，并且对回归抱有某种怀疑。这对她有好处。但附近没有人来接她；她很少离开家。

‘There does, indeed, seem as little to tempt her to break her resolution at present,’ said Mrs. Weston, ‘as can well be; and while she is so happy at Hartfield, I cannot wish her to be forming any attachment which would be creating such difficulties on poor Mr. Woodhouse’s account. I do not recommend matrimony at present to Emma, though I mean no slight to the state, I assure you.’
韦斯顿夫人说：“事实上，目前似乎没有什么理由让她违背自己的决心，”虽然她在哈特菲尔德很开心，但我不希望她形成任何依恋，这会给可怜的伍德豪斯先生造成如此大的困难。我目前不建议艾玛结婚，但我向你保证，我无意轻视国家。

Part of her meaning was to conceal some favourite thoughts of her own and Mr. Weston’s on the subject, as much as possible. There were wishes at Randalls respecting Emma’s destiny, but it was not desirable to have them suspected; and the quiet transition which Mr. Knightley soon afterwards made to ‘What does Weston think of the weather; shall we have rain?’ convinced her that he had nothing more to say or surmise about Hartfield.
她的部分意思是尽可能隐藏她自己和韦斯顿先生在这个问题上最喜欢的一些想法。兰德尔斯希望尊重艾玛的命运，但让他们怀疑并不可取。不久之后，奈特利先生悄然转变为“韦斯顿对天气有何看法？”我们会下雨吗？”让她确信他对哈特菲尔德没有更多可说或猜测的了。

Chapter VI
第六章

Emma could not feel a doubt of having given Harriet’s fancy a proper direction and raised the gratitude of her young vanity to a very good purpose, for she found her decidedly more sensible than before of Mr. Elton’s being a remarkably handsome man, with most agreeable manners; and as she had no hesitation in following up the assurance of his admiration by agreeable hints, she was soon pretty confident of creating as much liking on Harriet’s side, as there could be any occasion for. She was quite convinced of Mr. Elton’s being in the fairest way of falling in love, if not in love already. She had no scruple with regard to him. He talked of Harriet, and praised her so warmly, that she could not suppose any thing wanting which a little time would not add. His perception of the striking improvement of Harriet’s manner, since her introduction at Hartfield, was not one of the least agreeable proofs of his growing attachment.
爱玛毫不怀疑，她给了哈丽特的幻想一个正确的方向，并把她年轻的虚荣心的感激之情提高到了一个很好的目的，因为她发现她比以前更加明智，埃尔顿先生是一个非常英俊的男人，非常令人愉快。礼仪；由于她毫不犹豫地用令人愉快的暗示来表达他的钦佩，因此她很快就非常有信心在任何可能的情况下赢得哈丽特的好感。她非常确信埃尔顿先生正在以最公平的方式坠入爱河，即使还没有坠入爱河。她对他没有任何顾忌。他谈到哈丽特，并热情地称赞她，以至于她无法想象有什么需要一点时间就可以补充的。自从哈丽特被介绍到哈特菲尔德以来，他对她的举止有了显着改善的看法，并不是他对她的依恋日益增长的最不令人愉快的证据之一。

‘You have given Miss Smith all that she required,’ said he; ‘you have made her graceful and easy. She was a beautiful creature when she came to you, but, in my opinion, the attractions you have added are infinitely superior to what she received from nature.’
“你已经给了史密斯小姐她所需要的一切，”他说。 ‘你让她变得优雅而从容。当她来到你身边时，她是一个美丽的生物，但是，在我看来，你所增加的吸引力远远优于她从大自然中获得的吸引力。

‘I am glad you think I have been useful to her; but Harriet only wanted drawing out, and receiving a few, very few hints. She had all the natural grace of sweetness of temper and artlessness in herself. I have done very little.’
“我很高兴你认为我对她有用；但哈丽特只想抽出时间，并接受一些非常少的提示。她身上有着与生俱来的优雅，脾气温和，天真无邪。我做得很少。

‘If it were admissible to contradict a lady,’ said the gallant Mr. Elton—
“如果可以与一位女士反驳的话，”勇敢的埃尔顿先生说道——

‘I have perhaps given her a little more decision of character, have taught her to think on points which had not fallen in her way before.’
“我也许给了她更多的性格决定权，教她思考以前没有遇到过的问题。”

‘Exactly so; that is what principally strikes me. So much superadded decision of character! Skilful has been the hand!’
'正是如此;这就是最令我震惊的地方。角色的决定如此多！手很熟练！

‘Great has been the pleasure, I am sure. I never met with a disposition more truly amiable.’
“我确信这是一种极大的乐趣。我从来没有遇到过比他更和蔼可亲的人。

‘I have no doubt of it.’ And it was spoken with a sort of sighing animation, which had a vast deal of the lover. She was not less pleased another day with the manner in which he seconded a sudden wish of hers, to have Harriet’s picture.
“我对此深信不疑。”说这句话时带着一种叹息的表情，这引起了很多爱人的兴趣。有一天，她对他支持她突然提出的想要得到哈丽特照片的愿望的态度也同样感到高兴。

‘Did you ever have your likeness taken, Harriet?’ said she: ‘did you ever sit for your picture?’
“哈丽特，你拍过像吗？”她说，“你坐过吗？”

Harriet was on the point of leaving the room, and only stopt to say, with a very interesting naivete,
哈丽特正要离开房间，只是停下来，用一种非常有趣的天真态度说：

‘Oh! dear, no, never.’
'哦！亲爱的，不，从来没有。

No sooner was she out of sight, than Emma exclaimed,
她一离开视线，艾玛就喊道：

‘What an exquisite possession a good picture of her would be! I would give any money for it. I almost long to attempt her likeness myself. You do not know it I dare say, but two or three years ago I had a great passion for taking likenesses, and attempted several of my friends, and was thought to have a tolerable eye in general. But from one cause or another, I gave it up in disgust. But really, I could almost venture, if Harriet would sit to me. It would be such a delight to have her picture!’
“一张她的好照片将是多么美妙的财产啊！”我愿意为此付出任何金钱。我几乎渴望亲自尝试模仿她。我敢说你不知道，但两三年前，我对模仿有很大的热情，并尝试了我的几个朋友，并且被认为总体上有一个可以接受的眼睛。但出于这样或那样的原因，我厌恶地放弃了它。但实际上，如果哈丽特愿意坐在我旁边，我几乎可以冒险。如果能有她的照片真是太高兴了！”

‘Let me entreat you,’ cried Mr. Elton; ‘it would indeed be a delight! Let me entreat you, Miss Woodhouse, to exercise so charming a talent in favour of your friend. I know what your drawings are. How could you suppose me ignorant? Is not this room rich in specimens of your landscapes and flowers; and has not Mrs. Weston some inimitable figure-pieces in her drawing-room, at Randalls?’
“让我恳求你吧，”埃尔顿先生喊道。 ‘这确实会令人高兴！让我恳求您，伍德豪斯小姐，为您的朋友发挥如此迷人的才能。我知道你的图是什么。你怎么能认为我无知呢？这个房间不是有丰富的山水和花卉标本吗？韦斯顿夫人在兰德尔斯的客厅里不是有一些无与伦比的人物作品吗？

Yes, good man!—thought Emma—but what has all that to do with taking likenesses? You know nothing of drawing. Don’t pretend to be in raptures about mine. Keep your raptures for Harriet’s face. ‘Well, if you give me such kind encouragement, Mr. Elton, I believe I shall try what I can do. Harriet’s features are very delicate, which makes a likeness difficult; and yet there is a peculiarity in the shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth which one ought to catch.’
是的，好人！——艾玛想——但这和模仿有什么关系呢？你对绘画一无所知。别假装对我的事感到欣喜若狂。保持对哈丽特脸庞的狂喜吧。 “好吧，如果你给我这样的鼓励，埃尔顿先生，我相信我会尽我所能。哈丽特的五官非常精致，很难模仿；然而，眼睛的形状和嘴周围的线条有一种特殊性，人们应该注意到。

‘Exactly so—The shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth—I have not a doubt of your success. Pray, pray attempt it. As you will do it, it will indeed, to use your own words, be an exquisite possession.’
“正是这样——眼睛的形状和嘴巴周围的线条——我毫不怀疑你的成功。祈祷吧，祈祷尝试吧。当你这样做时，用你自己的话说，它确实会成为一件精美的财产。

‘But I am afraid, Mr. Elton, Harriet will not like to sit. She thinks so little of her own beauty. Did not you observe her manner of answering me? How completely it meant, ‘why should my picture be drawn?’’
“但是，埃尔顿先生，我担心哈丽特不喜欢坐着。她太不重视自己的美貌了。你没有观察到她回答我的方式吗？ “为什么要画我的画？”这句话的意思多么彻底啊？

‘Oh! yes, I observed it, I assure you. It was not lost on me. But still I cannot imagine she would not be persuaded.’
'哦！是的，我观察到了，我向你保证。我并没有失去它。但我仍然无法想象她不会被说服。

Harriet was soon back again, and the proposal almost immediately made; and she had no scruples which could stand many minutes against the earnest pressing of both the others. Emma wished to go to work directly, and therefore produced the portfolio containing her various attempts at portraits, for not one of them had ever been finished, that they might decide together on the best size for Harriet. Her many beginnings were displayed. Miniatures, half-lengths, whole-lengths, pencil, crayon, and water-colours had been all tried in turn. She had always wanted to do every thing, and had made more progress both in drawing and music than many might have done with so little labour as she would ever submit to. She played and sang;—and drew in almost every style; but steadiness had always been wanting; and in nothing had she approached the degree of excellence which she would have been glad to command, and ought not to have failed of. She was not much deceived as to her own skill either as an artist or a musician, but she was not unwilling to have others deceived, or sorry to know her reputation for accomplishment often higher than it deserved.
哈丽特很快又回来了，几乎立刻就提出了这个建议。她毫无顾忌，能够承受其他人的热切逼迫长达数分钟的时间。艾玛希望直接去上班，因此制作了包含她各种肖像尝试的作品集，因为其中没有一幅完成，以便他们可以共同决定哈丽特的最佳尺寸。她的许多开始都被展示了出来。微型图、半幅图、全幅图、铅笔画、蜡笔画、水彩画都依次尝试过。她一直想做每件事，并且在绘画和音乐方面取得的进步比许多人可能取得的进步要多，而她所付出的劳动却很少。她弹奏、唱歌；——并且画画几乎有各种风格；但始终缺乏稳定性；她在任何事情上都达到了她乐于达到的卓越程度，而且她不应该失败。无论是作为艺术家还是音乐家，她对自己的技能并没有太大的欺骗，但她并不不愿意别人被欺骗，或者遗憾地知道她的成就声誉往往高于应有的水平。

There was merit in every drawing—in the least finished, perhaps the most; her style was spirited; but had there been much less, or had there been ten times more, the delight and admiration of her two companions would have been the same. They were both in ecstasies. A likeness pleases every body; and Miss Woodhouse’s performances must be capital.
每幅画都有其优点——至少是完成得最少的，也许是完成得最多的；她的风格充满活力；但如果少得多，或者多十倍，她的两个同伴的喜悦和钦佩也会是一样的。他们都欣喜若狂。每个人都喜欢相似的事物；伍德豪斯小姐的表演一定很精彩。

‘No great variety of faces for you,’ said Emma. ‘I had only my own family to study from. There is my father—another of my father—but the idea of sitting for his picture made him so nervous, that I could only take him by stealth; neither of them very like therefore. Mrs. Weston again, and again, and again, you see. Dear Mrs. Weston! always my kindest friend on every occasion. She would sit whenever I asked her. There is my sister; and really quite her own little elegant figure!—and the face not unlike. I should have made a good likeness of her, if she would have sat longer, but she was in such a hurry to have me draw her four children that she would not be quiet. Then, here come all my attempts at three of those four children;—there they are, Henry and John and Bella, from one end of the sheet to the other, and any one of them might do for any one of the rest. She was so eager to have them drawn that I could not refuse; but there is no making children of three or four years old stand still you know; nor can it be very easy to take any likeness of them, beyond the air and complexion, unless they are coarser featured than any of mama’s children ever were. Here is my sketch of the fourth, who was a baby. I took him as he was sleeping on the sofa, and it is as strong a likeness of his cockade as you would wish to see. He had nestled down his head most conveniently. That’s very like. I am rather proud of little George. The corner of the sofa is very good. Then here is my last,’—unclosing a pretty sketch of a gentleman in small size, whole-length— ‘my last and my best—my brother, Mr. John Knightley. —This did not want much of being finished, when I put it away in a pet, and vowed I would never take another likeness. I could not help being provoked; for after all my pains, and when I had really made a very good likeness of it—(Mrs. Weston and I were quite agreed in thinking it very like)—only too handsome—too flattering—but that was a fault on the right side— after all this, came poor dear Isabella’s cold approbation of—‘Yes, it was a little like—but to be sure it did not do him justice.’ We had had a great deal of trouble in persuading him to sit at all. It was made a great favour of; and altogether it was more than I could bear; and so I never would finish it, to have it apologised over as an unfavourable likeness, to every morning visitor in Brunswick Square;—and, as I said, I did then forswear ever drawing any body again. But for Harriet’s sake, or rather for my own, and as there are no husbands and wives in the case at present, I will break my resolution now.’
“你的面孔不适合你，”艾玛说。 “我只有自己的家人可以学习。那是我的父亲——我父亲的另一个人——但一想到要坐下来给他拍照，他就非常紧张，所以我只能偷偷地拍他。因此他们俩都不太喜欢。韦斯顿夫人一次又一次，一次又一次，你瞧。亲爱的韦斯顿夫人！在任何场合都是我最友善的朋友。每当我要求她时，她都会坐下。那是我的妹妹；而且真的很像她自己的小优雅的身材！——而且脸也没什么不同。如果她能坐得久一点的话，我应该给她画一个漂亮的肖像，但她太着急让我画她的四个孩子，以至于她不安静。然后，我对这四个孩子中的三个的所有尝试都在这里；他们在那里，亨利、约翰和贝拉，从床单的一端到另一端，他们​​中的任何一个都可以为其余的任何一个做。她非常渴望把它们画出来，我无法拒绝。但你知道，三四岁的孩子是无法保持静止的；除了神态和肤色之外，也很难看出他们有任何相似之处，除非他们的五官比妈妈的任何一个孩子都粗糙。这是我为第四个画的草图，他还是个婴儿。我拍到他睡在沙发上，这与他的帽徽非常相似，正如你所希望看到的那样。他最舒服的姿势就是低下头。非常像。我为小乔治感到骄傲。沙发的一角很好。那么这是我的最后一张，”——展开一幅漂亮的绅士小尺寸全身素描——“我最后的也是我最好的——我的兄弟，约翰·奈特利先生。 ——当我把它养在宠物里时，这并不想完成太多，并发誓我再也不会拥有另一个相似的东西了。 我忍不住被激怒了；因为在我付出了所有的努力之后，当我真的把它画得非常像时——（韦斯顿夫人和我都认为它很像）——只是太英俊了——太讨人喜欢了——但那是右边的一个缺点一边——在这一切之后，可怜的亲爱的伊莎贝拉冷冷地赞许——“是的，有点像——但可以肯定的是，这对他来说并不公平。”我们费了很大的劲才说服他坐下来。 。它受到了极大的青睐；总而言之，这超出了我的承受能力。因此，我永远不会完成它，因为它是一个不利的肖像，向布伦瑞克广场的每个早晨访客道歉；而且，正如我所说，我当时发誓不再画任何人体。但为了哈丽特，或者更确切地说，为了我自己，而且由于目前这个案子没有丈夫和妻子，我现在就打破我的决心。’

Mr. Elton seemed very properly struck and delighted by the idea, and was repeating, ‘No husbands and wives in the case at present indeed, as you observe. Exactly so. No husbands and wives,’ with so interesting a consciousness, that Emma began to consider whether she had not better leave them together at once. But as she wanted to be drawing, the declaration must wait a little longer.
埃尔顿先生似乎对这个想法感到非常震惊和高兴，并重复道：“正如你所观察到的，目前此案中确实没有丈夫和妻子。”正是如此。没有丈夫和妻子，”带着如此有趣的意识，艾玛开始考虑是否最好立即让他们在一起。但由于她要画画，所以声明还得再等一段时间。

She had soon fixed on the size and sort of portrait. It was to be a whole-length in water-colours, like Mr. John Knightley’s, and was destined, if she could please herself, to hold a very honourable station over the mantelpiece.
她很快就确定了肖像的尺寸和类型。这将是一幅水彩画，就像约翰·奈特利先生的一样，如果她能高兴的话，注定会在壁炉架上占据一个非常光荣的位置。

The sitting began; and Harriet, smiling and blushing, and afraid of not keeping her attitude and countenance, presented a very sweet mixture of youthful expression to the steady eyes of the artist. But there was no doing any thing, with Mr. Elton fidgeting behind her and watching every touch. She gave him credit for stationing himself where he might gaze and gaze again without offence; but was really obliged to put an end to it, and request him to place himself elsewhere. It then occurred to her to employ him in reading.
会议开始了。哈丽特微笑着，脸红了，生怕不保持自己的态度和表情，在艺术家坚定的目光中呈现出一种非常甜蜜的青春表情的混合体。但她什么也没做，埃尔顿先生在她身后坐立不安，注视着她的每一次触摸。她称赞他把自己安置在可以凝视和凝视的地方，不会冒犯他。但确实有必要结束它，并要求他把自己安置在别处。然后她想到让他读书。

‘If he would be so good as to read to them, it would be a kindness indeed! It would amuse away the difficulties of her part, and lessen the irksomeness of Miss Smith’s.’
“如果他愿意读书给他们听，那真是一种善意！”这会消解她那部分的困难，并减轻史密斯小姐那部分的烦人。

Mr. Elton was only too happy. Harriet listened, and Emma drew in peace. She must allow him to be still frequently coming to look; any thing less would certainly have been too little in a lover; and he was ready at the smallest intermission of the pencil, to jump up and see the progress, and be charmed.—There was no being displeased with such an encourager, for his admiration made him discern a likeness almost before it was possible. She could not respect his eye, but his love and his complaisance were unexceptionable.
埃尔顿先生实在太高兴了。哈丽特听着，艾玛则平静地画画。她必须允许他仍然经常来看望；对于一个爱人来说，少一点就显得太少了。他已经准备好在铅笔的最小间隙跳起来，看看进展情况，并被迷住了。——对这样的鼓励者并没有不高兴，因为他的钦佩使他几乎在可能之前就辨别出了相似之处。她无法尊重他的眼睛，但他的爱和他的温顺却是无可挑剔的。

The sitting was altogether very satisfactory; she was quite enough pleased with the first day’s sketch to wish to go on. There was no want of likeness, she had been fortunate in the attitude, and as she meant to throw in a little improvement to the figure, to give a little more height, and considerably more elegance, she had great confidence of its being in every way a pretty drawing at last, and of its filling its destined place with credit to them both—a standing memorial of the beauty of one, the skill of the other, and the friendship of both; with as many other agreeable associations as Mr. Elton’s very promising attachment was likely to add.
整个坐姿非常令人满意。她对第一天的草图非常满意，希望继续下去。并不缺乏相似之处，她在态度上很幸运，因为她打算对身材进行一点改善，增加一点高度，并且更加优雅，她非常有信心它在每个人身上都存在。终于，一幅漂亮的图画完成了，它填补了其注定的位置，为他们俩赢得了荣誉——一个人的美丽、另一个人的技巧以及两人的友谊的永久纪念碑；与埃尔顿先生非常有希望的依恋可能会增加的许多其他令人愉快的联系。

Harriet was to sit again the next day; and Mr. Elton, just as he ought, entreated for the permission of attending and reading to them again.
哈丽特第二天又要坐。埃尔顿先生也正如他应该做的那样，恳求他们允许再次出席并给他们朗读。

‘By all means. We shall be most happy to consider you as one of the party.’
无论如何。我们将非常高兴将您视为其中一员。

The same civilities and courtesies, the same success and satisfaction, took place on the morrow, and accompanied the whole progress of the picture, which was rapid and happy. Every body who saw it was pleased, but Mr. Elton was in continual raptures, and defended it through every criticism.
同样的礼貌和礼貌，同样的成功和满足，发生在第二天，并且伴随着整个画面的进展，这是快速而快乐的。每个看到它的人都感到高兴，但埃尔顿先生始终欣喜若狂，并通过每一次批评来捍卫它。

‘Miss Woodhouse has given her friend the only beauty she wanted,’—observed Mrs. Weston to him—not in the least suspecting that she was addressing a lover.—‘The expression of the eye is most correct, but Miss Smith has not those eyebrows and eyelashes. It is the fault of her face that she has them not.’
“伍德豪斯小姐给了她的朋友她想要的唯一的美丽，”韦斯顿夫人对他说，丝毫没有怀疑她是在对一个情人说话。“眼睛的表情是最正确的，但史密斯小姐没有那些眉毛和睫毛。她没有这些都是她脸上的错。

‘Do you think so?’ replied he. ‘I cannot agree with you. It appears to me a most perfect resemblance in every feature. I never saw such a likeness in my life. We must allow for the effect of shade, you know.’
“你这么认为吗？”他回答道。 “我不能同意你的观点。在我看来，它的每一个特征都非常相似。我一生中从未见过如此相似的人。你知道，我们必须考虑到阴影的影响。

‘You have made her too tall, Emma,’ said Mr. Knightley.
“你把她弄得太高了，艾玛，”奈特利先生说。

Emma knew that she had, but would not own it; and Mr. Elton warmly added,
艾玛知道她拥有它，但不会拥有它；埃尔顿先生热情地补充道：

‘Oh no! certainly not too tall; not in the least too tall. Consider, she is sitting down—which naturally presents a different—which in short gives exactly the idea—and the proportions must be preserved, you know. Proportions, fore-shortening.—Oh no! it gives one exactly the idea of such a height as Miss Smith’s. Exactly so indeed!’
'不好了！当然不能太高；一点也不太高。考虑一下，她坐着——这自然会呈现出不同的效果——简而言之，这完全给出了想法——而且比例必须保持不变，你知道。比例，缩短。——哦不！它让人确切地知道史密斯小姐的身高。确实如此！

‘It is very pretty,’ said Mr. Woodhouse. ‘So prettily done! Just as your drawings always are, my dear. I do not know any body who draws so well as you do. The only thing I do not thoroughly like is, that she seems to be sitting out of doors, with only a little shawl over her shoulders—and it makes one think she must catch cold.’
“它非常漂亮，”伍德豪斯先生说。 ‘做得真漂亮！就像你的画一直都是这样，亲爱的。我不知道有谁画得像你这么好。我唯一不太喜欢的是，她似乎坐在门​​外，肩膀上只披了一条小围巾，这让人觉得她一定是着凉了。

‘But, my dear papa, it is supposed to be summer; a warm day in summer. Look at the tree.’
“但是，我亲爱的爸爸，现在应该是夏天；夏天温暖的一天。看看那棵树。

‘But it is never safe to sit out of doors, my dear.’
“但亲爱的，坐在户外永远不安全。”

‘You, sir, may say any thing,’ cried Mr. Elton, ‘but I must confess that I regard it as a most happy thought, the placing of Miss Smith out of doors; and the tree is touched with such inimitable spirit! Any other situation would have been much less in character. The naivete of Miss Smith’s manners—and altogether—Oh, it is most admirable! I cannot keep my eyes from it. I never saw such a likeness.’
“先生，您可以说任何话，”埃尔顿先生喊道，“但我必须承认，我认为把史密斯小姐安排到户外是一件最高兴的事；但我必须承认，我认为把史密斯小姐安排到户外是一件非常高兴的事。”这棵树被如此独特的精神所感动！任何其他情况都不会那么有特色。史密斯小姐的举止天真无邪——总之——哦，这是最令人钦佩的！我无法将目光从它身上移开。我从来没有见过这样的相似。

The next thing wanted was to get the picture framed; and here were a few difficulties. It must be done directly; it must be done in London; the order must go through the hands of some intelligent person whose taste could be depended on; and Isabella, the usual doer of all commissions, must not be applied to, because it was December, and Mr. Woodhouse could not bear the idea of her stirring out of her house in the fogs of December. But no sooner was the distress known to Mr. Elton, than it was removed. His gallantry was always on the alert. ‘Might he be trusted with the commission, what infinite pleasure should he have in executing it! he could ride to London at any time. It was impossible to say how much he should be gratified by being employed on such an errand.’
接下来要做的就是把照片装框；这里有一些困难。必须直接完成；必须在伦敦完成；该订单必须经过某个聪明人之手，其品味值得信赖；伊莎贝拉，所有委托的惯常执行者，不能被应用到，因为现在是十二月，伍德豪斯先生无法忍受她在十二月的雾气中走出家门。但埃尔顿先生一得知这种痛苦，它就消失了。他的英勇总是保持警惕。 “如果他能得到这个委托，他在执行任务时会感到多么无限的快乐啊！”他可以随时骑车去伦敦。无法说他应该为受雇执行这样的差事而感到多么高兴。

‘He was too good!—she could not endure the thought!— she would not give him such a troublesome office for the world,’—brought on the desired repetition of entreaties and assurances,—and a very few minutes settled the business.
“他太好了！——她无法忍受这样的想法！——她不会给他一个如此麻烦的办公室，”——重复了所希望的恳求和保证，——几分钟后事情就解决了。

Mr. Elton was to take the drawing to London, chuse the frame, and give the directions; and Emma thought she could so pack it as to ensure its safety without much incommoding him, while he seemed mostly fearful of not being incommoded enough.
埃尔顿先生要把这幅画带到伦敦，选择画框，并给出指示。艾玛认为她可以把它打包，以确保它的安全，而不会给他带来太大的不便，而他似乎主要担心不那么不便。

‘What a precious deposit!’ said he with a tender sigh, as he received it.
“多么宝贵的存款啊！”他收到这笔钱时轻轻叹了口气。

‘This man is almost too gallant to be in love,’ thought Emma. ‘I should say so, but that I suppose there may be a hundred different ways of being in love. He is an excellent young man, and will suit Harriet exactly; it will be an ‘Exactly so,’ as he says himself; but he does sigh and languish, and study for compliments rather more than I could endure as a principal. I come in for a pretty good share as a second. But it is his gratitude on Harriet’s account.’
“这个男人太英勇了，不适合恋爱。”艾玛想。 “我应该这么说，但我想可能有一百种不同的恋爱方式。他是一个优秀的年轻人，非常适合哈丽特。正如他自己所说，这将是“完全如此”；但他确实叹息、憔悴，并且学习寻求赞美，这超出了我作为校长所能忍受的程度。我作为第二个来参加相当不错的分享。但这是他对哈丽特的感激之情。”

Chapter VII
第七章

The very day of Mr. Elton’s going to London produced a fresh occasion for Emma’s services towards her friend. Harriet had been at Hartfield, as usual, soon after breakfast; and, after a time, had gone home to return again to dinner: she returned, and sooner than had been talked of, and with an agitated, hurried look, announcing something extraordinary to have happened which she was longing to tell. Half a minute brought it all out. She had heard, as soon as she got back to Mrs. Goddard’s, that Mr. Martin had been there an hour before, and finding she was not at home, nor particularly expected, had left a little parcel for her from one of his sisters, and gone away; and on opening this parcel, she had actually found, besides the two songs which she had lent Elizabeth to copy, a letter to herself; and this letter was from him, from Mr. Martin, and contained a direct proposal of marriage. ‘Who could have thought it? She was so surprized she did not know what to do. Yes, quite a proposal of marriage; and a very good letter, at least she thought so. And he wrote as if he really loved her very much—but she did not know—and so, she was come as fast as she could to ask Miss Woodhouse what she should do.—‘ Emma was half-ashamed of her friend for seeming so pleased and so doubtful.
埃尔顿先生去伦敦的那天，艾玛为她的朋友提供了一个新的服务机会。像往常一样，哈丽特早餐后不久就到了哈特菲尔德。过了一会儿，她又回家吃晚饭了：她回来了，比我们谈论的还要早，带着焦躁、匆忙的表情，宣布发生了一件她很想告诉的非同寻常的事情。半分钟就全部说出来了。她一回到戈达德夫人家，就听说马丁先生一小时前就到过那里，发现她不在家，也没有特别期待，就给她留下了他的一个姐妹寄来的一个小包裹。 ，然后就走了；打开这个包裹，她发现除了借给伊丽莎白抄的两首歌之外，还有一封写给自己的信。这封信是他写的，马丁先生写的，里面有直接的求婚。 ‘谁能想到呢？她非常惊讶，不知道该怎么办。是的，相当的求婚；一封非常好的信，至少她是这么认为的。他写道，好像他真的非常爱她——但她不知道——所以，她尽快赶来询问伍德豪斯小姐她应该做什么。——”艾玛为她的朋友似乎感到有点羞愧。如此高兴又如此怀疑。

‘Upon my word,’ she cried, ‘the young man is determined not to lose any thing for want of asking. He will connect himself well if he can.’
“我保证，”她喊道，“这个年轻人决心不会因为不提出要求而失去任何东西。如果可以的话，他会很好地联系自己。

‘Will you read the letter?’ cried Harriet. ‘Pray do. I’d rather you would.’
“你会读这封信吗？”哈丽特喊道。 ‘请祈祷吧。我宁愿你愿意。

Emma was not sorry to be pressed. She read, and was surprized. The style of the letter was much above her expectation. There were not merely no grammatical errors, but as a composition it would not have disgraced a gentleman; the language, though plain, was strong and unaffected, and the sentiments it conveyed very much to the credit of the writer. It was short, but expressed good sense, warm attachment, liberality, propriety, even delicacy of feeling. She paused over it, while Harriet stood anxiously watching for her opinion, with a ‘Well, well,’ and was at last forced to add, ‘Is it a good letter? or is it too short?’
艾玛并不因为受到压力而感到遗憾。她读了，很惊讶。这封信的风格远远超出了她的预期。不仅没有语法错误，而且作为一篇文章，它也不会令一位绅士蒙羞；语言虽然平淡，但却很强烈、不做作，所传达的情感非常值得作者赞扬。虽然很短，但表达了良好的理智、温暖的依恋、慷慨、得体，甚至是细腻的感情。她停了下来，而哈丽特则焦急地站着，等待她的意见，“嗯，好吧，”最后被迫补充道，“这是一封好信吗？”还是太短了？

‘Yes, indeed, a very good letter,’ replied Emma rather slowly—‘so good a letter, Harriet, that every thing considered, I think one of his sisters must have helped him. I can hardly imagine the young man whom I saw talking with you the other day could express himself so well, if left quite to his own powers, and yet it is not the style of a woman; no, certainly, it is too strong and concise; not diffuse enough for a woman. No doubt he is a sensible man, and I suppose may have a natural talent for—thinks strongly and clearly—and when he takes a pen in hand, his thoughts naturally find proper words. It is so with some men. Yes, I understand the sort of mind. Vigorous, decided, with sentiments to a certain point, not coarse. A better written letter, Harriet (returning it,) than I had expected.’
“是的，确实是一封非常好的信，”艾玛相当缓慢地回答道，“这封信非常好，哈丽特，从各方面考虑，我认为他的一个姐妹一定帮助了他。我很难想象那天我看到的那个和你谈话的年轻人如果完全靠自己的力量能够如此出色地表达自己，但这不是女人的风格；不，当然，它太强烈和简洁了；对于女人来说不够扩散。毫无疑问，他是一个明智的人，我想他可能有一种天生的天赋——思考强烈而清晰——当他拿起笔时，他的想法自然会找到合适的词语。有些男人就是这样。是的，我理解那种心态。精力充沛，果断，情绪达到一定程度，而不是粗俗。哈里特（退回）这封信写得比我预想的要好。

‘Well,’ said the still waiting Harriet;—‘ well—and— and what shall I do?’
“好吧，”仍在等待的哈丽特说，“好吧——然后——然后我该怎么办？”

‘What shall you do! In what respect? Do you mean with regard to this letter?’
‘你该怎么办！在什么方面呢？你是指这封信吗？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘But what are you in doubt of? You must answer it of course—and speedily.’
‘但是你有什么疑问呢？当然，你必须尽快回答。

‘Yes. But what shall I say? Dear Miss Woodhouse, do advise me.’
'是的。但我该说什么呢？亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，请给我建议。

‘Oh no, no! the letter had much better be all your own. You will express yourself very properly, I am sure. There is no danger of your not being intelligible, which is the first thing. Your meaning must be unequivocal; no doubts or demurs: and such expressions of gratitude and concern for the pain you are inflicting as propriety requires, will present themselves unbidden to your mind, I am persuaded. You need not be prompted to write with the appearance of sorrow for his disappointment.’
‘哦不，不！这封信最好是你自己写的。我相信你会非常恰当地表达自己。不存在无法理解的危险，这是第一件事。你的意思必须明确；毫无疑问或异议：我相信，这种对你所造成的痛苦的感激和关心的表达，按照礼节的要求，会不请自来地出现在你的脑海中，我相信。你不需要因为他的失望而表现出悲伤的表情。

‘You think I ought to refuse him then,’ said Harriet, looking down.
“你认为我应该拒绝他，”哈丽雅特低下头说道。

‘Ought to refuse him! My dear Harriet, what do you mean? Are you in any doubt as to that? I thought—but I beg your pardon, perhaps I have been under a mistake. I certainly have been misunderstanding you, if you feel in doubt as to the purport of your answer. I had imagined you were consulting me only as to the wording of it.’
‘应该拒绝他！我亲爱的哈丽特，你这是什么意思？您对此有疑问吗？我想——但请原谅，也许我犯了一个错误。如果你对你的答案的主旨感到怀疑，我肯定误解了你。我以为你只是咨询我它的措辞。

Harriet was silent. With a little reserve of manner, Emma continued:
哈丽特沉默了。艾玛带着一点保留的态度继续说道：

‘You mean to return a favourable answer, I collect.’
“我猜你是想给予满意的答复。”

‘No, I do not; that is, I do not mean—What shall I do? What would you advise me to do? Pray, dear Miss Woodhouse, tell me what I ought to do.’
'不，我不;也就是说，我的意思不是——我该怎么办？你会建议我做什么？亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，请告诉我应该做什么。

‘I shall not give you any advice, Harriet. I will have nothing to do with it. This is a point which you must settle with your feelings.’
“我不会给你任何建议，哈丽特。我不会与此有任何关系。这是你必须根据自己的感受来解决的问题。

‘I had no notion that he liked me so very much,’ said Harriet, contemplating the letter. For a little while Emma persevered in her silence; but beginning to apprehend the bewitching flattery of that letter might be too powerful, she thought it best to say,
“我没想到他这么喜欢我，”哈丽雅特一边说，一边沉思着这封信。艾玛沉默了一会儿。但她开始意识到这封信中令人着迷的奉承可能太过有力，她认为最好说：

‘I lay it down as a general rule, Harriet, that if a woman doubts as to whether she should accept a man or not, she certainly ought to refuse him. If she can hesitate as to ‘Yes,’ she ought to say ‘No’ directly. It is not a state to be safely entered into with doubtful feelings, with half a heart. I thought it my duty as a friend, and older than yourself, to say thus much to you. But do not imagine that I want to influence you.’
“我规定了一条一般规则，哈丽特，如果一个女人怀疑自己是否应该接受一个男人，她当然应该拒绝他。如果她对“是”犹豫不决，她应该直接说“不”。这不是一种可以带着怀疑的感觉、半心半意地安全进入的状态。我认为作为一个比你年长的朋友，我有责任对你说这么多。但不要以为我想影响你。”

‘Oh! no, I am sure you are a great deal too kind to—but if you would just advise me what I had best do—No, no, I do not mean that—As you say, one’s mind ought to be quite made up—One should not be hesitating—It is a very serious thing.—It will be safer to say ‘No,’ perhaps.—Do you think I had better say ‘No?’’
'哦！不，我相信你太仁慈了——但如果你只是建议我最好做什么——不，不，我不是这个意思——正如你所说，一个人的想法应该下定决心——人们不应该犹豫——这是一件非常严肃的事情。——也许说“不”会更安全。——你认为我最好说“不”吗？

‘Not for the world,’ said Emma, smiling graciously, ‘would I advise you either way. You must be the best judge of your own happiness. If you prefer Mr. Martin to every other person; if you think him the most agreeable man you have ever been in company with, why should you hesitate? You blush, Harriet.—Does any body else occur to you at this moment under such a definition? Harriet, Harriet, do not deceive yourself; do not be run away with by gratitude and compassion. At this moment whom are you thinking of?’
“无论如何，”艾玛亲切地微笑着说，“无论如何我都会建议你。”你必须是自己幸福的最佳评判者。如果您比其他人更喜欢马丁先生；如果你认为他是你交往过的最讨人喜欢的人，你为什么要犹豫呢？你脸红了，哈丽特。——此时此刻，在这样的定义下，你还想到过其他人吗？哈丽特，哈丽特，别欺骗自己了；不要被感恩和慈悲所迷惑。此时此刻你在想谁？

The symptoms were favourable.—Instead of answering, Harriet turned away confused, and stood thoughtfully by the fire; and though the letter was still in her hand, it was now mechanically twisted about without regard. Emma waited the result with impatience, but not without strong hopes. At last, with some hesitation, Harriet said—
症状良好。——哈丽特没有回答，而是困惑地转过身去，站在火边若有所思。尽管那封信还在她手里，但它已经被机械地扭曲着，不顾一切。艾玛焦急地等待着结果，但也不乏强烈的希望。最后，哈丽特有些犹豫地说——

‘Miss Woodhouse, as you will not give me your opinion, I must do as well as I can by myself; and I have now quite determined, and really almost made up my mind—to refuse Mr. Martin. Do you think I am right?’
“伍德豪斯小姐，既然你不肯告诉我你的意见，我就必须自己尽力而为；我现在已经下定决心，几乎已经下定决心——拒绝马丁先生。你认为我说得对吗？

‘Perfectly, perfectly right, my dearest Harriet; you are doing just what you ought. While you were at all in suspense I kept my feelings to myself, but now that you are so completely decided I have no hesitation in approving. Dear Harriet, I give myself joy of this. It would have grieved me to lose your acquaintance, which must have been the consequence of your marrying Mr. Martin. While you were in the smallest degree wavering, I said nothing about it, because I would not influence; but it would have been the loss of a friend to me. I could not have visited Mrs. Robert Martin, of Abbey-Mill Farm. Now I am secure of you for ever.’
“完全，完全正确，我最亲爱的哈丽特；你只是在做你应该做的事。当你还犹豫不决的时候，我把自己的感受藏在心里，但现在你已经完全决定了，我会毫不犹豫地批准。亲爱的哈丽特，我为此感到高兴。如果失去你的熟人，我会感到悲伤，这一定是你嫁给马丁先生的结果。当你有丝毫动摇的时候，我什么也没说，因为我不会施加影响；但这对我来说就失去了一个朋友。我无法拜访艾比米尔农场的罗伯特·马丁夫人。现在我永远对你有安全感了。

Harriet had not surmised her own danger, but the idea of it struck her forcibly.
哈丽特并没有预料到自己面临着危险，但这个想法却强烈地袭来。

‘You could not have visited me!’ she cried, looking aghast. ‘No, to be sure you could not; but I never thought of that before. That would have been too dreadful!—What an escape!—Dear Miss Woodhouse, I would not give up the pleasure and honour of being intimate with you for any thing in the world.’
“你不可能来看我的！”她惊愕地喊道。 “不，当然你不能；但我以前从未想过这一点。那太可怕了！——多么好的逃避啊！——亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，我不会为了世界上的任何事情而放弃与你亲密的快乐和荣誉。

‘Indeed, Harriet, it would have been a severe pang to lose you; but it must have been. You would have thrown yourself out of all good society. I must have given you up.’
“确实，哈丽特，失去你将是一种巨大的痛苦；”但一定是这样。你会把自己扔出所有美好的社会。我一定已经放弃你了。

‘Dear me!—How should I ever have borne it! It would have killed me never to come to Hartfield any more!’
“天啊！——我怎么能忍受呢！”如果我再也不来哈特菲尔德了，我会死的！”

‘Dear affectionate creature!—You banished to Abbey-Mill Farm!—You confined to the society of the illiterate and vulgar all your life! I wonder how the young man could have the assurance to ask it. He must have a pretty good opinion of himself.’
“亲爱的多情的生物！——你被放逐到修道院米尔农场！——你一生都被限制在文盲和粗俗的社会里！”我不知道这个年轻人如何有把握提出这样的问题。他对自己一定有很好的看法。

‘I do not think he is conceited either, in general,’ said Harriet, her conscience opposing such censure; ‘at least, he is very good natured, and I shall always feel much obliged to him, and have a great regard for— but that is quite a different thing from—and you know, though he may like me, it does not follow that I should—and certainly I must confess that since my visiting here I have seen people—and if one comes to compare them, person and manners, there is no comparison at all, one is so very handsome and agreeable. However, I do really think Mr. Martin a very amiable young man, and have a great opinion of him; and his being so much attached to me—and his writing such a letter—but as to leaving you, it is what I would not do upon any consideration.’
“总的来说，我认为他也不自负，”哈丽雅特说，她的良心反对这种谴责。 “至少，他性情很好，我会一直对他感到非常感激，并且非常尊重——但这完全是不同的事情——而且你知道，尽管他可能喜欢我，但这并不意味着他会喜欢我。”我应该——当然我必须承认，自从我来到这里以来，我见过很多人——如果要比较他们，无论是人还是举止，根本没有可比性，一个人是如此的英俊和令人愉快。不过，我确实认为马丁先生是一个非常和蔼可亲的年轻人，对他评价很高；他对我如此依恋——而且他写了这样一封信——但至于离开你，我无论如何都不会这么做。

‘Thank you, thank you, my own sweet little friend. We will not be parted. A woman is not to marry a man merely because she is asked, or because he is attached to her, and can write a tolerable letter.’
“谢谢你，谢谢你，我可爱的小朋友。我们不会分开。一个女人不能仅仅因为一个男人向她求婚，或者因为他对她有依恋，并且能写一封还算可以的信而嫁给她。

‘Oh no;—and it is but a short letter too.’
“哦，不；——这也只是一封简短的信。”

Emma felt the bad taste of her friend, but let it pass with a ‘very true; and it would be a small consolation to her, for the clownish manner which might be offending her every hour of the day, to know that her husband could write a good letter.’
艾玛感觉到了她朋友的坏品味，但还是以“非常真实”的口气让它过去了。知道她的丈夫能写一封好信，这对她来说是一个小小的安慰，因为一天中每个小时都可能冒犯她的滑稽举止。

‘Oh! yes, very. Nobody cares for a letter; the thing is, to be always happy with pleasant companions. I am quite determined to refuse him. But how shall I do? That shall I say?’
'哦！是的，非常。没有人关心一封信；问题是，与愉快的同伴在一起总是快乐的。我是坚决拒绝他的。但我该怎么办呢？我该这么说吗？

Emma assured her there would be no difficulty in the answer, and advised its being written directly, which was agreed to, in the hope of her assistance; and though Emma continued to protest against any assistance being wanted, it was in fact given in the formation of every sentence. The looking over his letter again, in replying to it, had such a softening tendency, that it was particularly necessary to brace her up with a few decisive expressions; and she was so very much concerned at the idea of making him unhappy, and thought so much of what his mother and sisters would think and say, and was so anxious that they should not fancy her ungrateful, that Emma believed if the young man had come in her way at that moment, he would have been accepted after all.
艾玛向她保证回答不会有任何困难，并建议直接写下来，她同意了，希望得到她的帮助；尽管艾玛继续抗议所需要的任何帮助，但事实上，她在每句话的构成中都给出了这种帮助。再看一遍他的信，在给她回信时，她的语气就变得软化了，所以特别有必要用几句果断的表情来让她振作起来。她非常担心让他不高兴，并且考虑了他母亲和姐妹们的想法和言论，并且非常担心他们不应该认为她忘恩负义，所以艾玛相信如果这个年轻人有在那一刻挡在她的面前，他终究会被接受的。

This letter, however, was written, and sealed, and sent. The business was finished, and Harriet safe. She was rather low all the evening, but Emma could allow for her amiable regrets, and sometimes relieved them by speaking of her own affection, sometimes by bringing forward the idea of Mr. Elton.
然而，这封信已经写好、密封并寄出。事情结束了，哈丽特也安全了。整个晚上她的心情都很低落，但艾玛可以原谅她的和蔼可亲的遗憾，有时通过谈论自己的感情来缓解这些遗憾，有时通过提出埃尔顿先生的想法来缓解这些遗憾。

‘I shall never be invited to Abbey-Mill again,’ was said in rather a sorrowful tone.
“我再也不会被邀请去修道院米尔了，”他用一种相当悲伤的语气说道。

‘Nor, if you were, could I ever bear to part with you, my Harriet. You are a great deal too necessary at Hartfield to be spared to Abbey-Mill.’
“如果你是的话，我也无法忍受与你分开，我的哈丽特。你在哈特菲尔德太重要了，不能被忽略到艾比米尔。

‘And I am sure I should never want to go there; for I am never happy but at Hartfield.’
“我确信我永远不想去那里；因为除了在哈特菲尔德，我从来没有快乐过。”

Some time afterwards it was, ‘I think Mrs. Goddard would be very much surprized if she knew what had happened. I am sure Miss Nash would—for Miss Nash thinks her own sister very well married, and it is only a linen-draper.’
一段时间后，“我想戈达德夫人如果知道发生了什么事，一定会感到非常惊讶。”我相信纳什小姐会的——因为纳什小姐认为她自己的妹妹嫁得很好，而且那只是一块亚麻布。

‘One should be sorry to see greater pride or refinement in the teacher of a school, Harriet. I dare say Miss Nash would envy you such an opportunity as this of being married. Even this conquest would appear valuable in her eyes. As to any thing superior for you, I suppose she is quite in the dark. The attentions of a certain person can hardly be among the tittle-tattle of Highbury yet. Hitherto I fancy you and I are the only people to whom his looks and manners have explained themselves.’
“看到学校老师哈丽特更加自豪或更加文雅，人们应该感到遗憾。我敢说纳什小姐一定会羡慕你有这样的结婚机会。即使是这次征服，在她眼里也显得很有价值。至于对你来说有什么好处，我想她一无所知。某个人的关注还很难成为海布里的流言蜚语。到目前为止，我想你和我是唯一能够理解他的外表和举止的人。

Harriet blushed and smiled, and said something about wondering that people should like her so much. The idea of Mr. Elton was certainly cheering; but still, after a time, she was tender-hearted again towards the rejected Mr. Martin.
哈丽雅特脸红了，微笑着，说了一些关于奇怪人们为什么会这么喜欢她的话。埃尔顿先生的想法无疑令人欢呼雀跃。但过了一段时间，她又对被拒绝的马丁先生心存温柔。

‘Now he has got my letter,’ said she softly. ‘I wonder what they are all doing—whether his sisters know—if he is unhappy, they will be unhappy too. I hope he will not mind it so very much.’
“现在他收到了我的信，”她轻声说道。 “我想知道他们都在做什么——他的姐妹们是否知道——如果他不快乐，她们也会不快乐。我希望他不会太介意。

‘Let us think of those among our absent friends who are more cheerfully employed,’ cried Emma. ‘At this moment, perhaps, Mr. Elton is shewing your picture to his mother and sisters, telling how much more beautiful is the original, and after being asked for it five or six times, allowing them to hear your name, your own dear name.’
“让我们想想那些缺席的朋友中那些工作更愉快的人，”艾玛喊道。 “此刻，也许埃尔顿先生正把你的照片拿给他的母亲和姐妹们看，告诉他们原来的照片有多美，在被问了五六次之后，让他们听到了你的名字，你自己亲爱的。”姓名。'

‘My picture!—But he has left my picture in Bond-street.’
“我的照片！——但他把我的照片留在邦德街了。”

‘Has he so!—Then I know nothing of Mr. Elton. No, my dear little modest Harriet, depend upon it the picture will not be in Bond-street till just before he mounts his horse to-morrow. It is his companion all this evening, his solace, his delight. It opens his designs to his family, it introduces you among them, it diffuses through the party those pleasantest feelings of our nature, eager curiosity and warm prepossession. How cheerful, how animated, how suspicious, how busy their imaginations all are!’
“他是这样吗？——那么我对埃尔顿先生一无所知。”不，我亲爱的谦虚的哈丽特，相信这幅画要到他明天上马之前才会出现在邦德街上。整个晚上，它都是他的伴侣，是他的安慰，是他的快乐。它向他的家人开放了他的设计，将你介绍给他们，它在聚会中散布了我们本性中最愉快的感觉，渴望的好奇心和温暖的偏见。他们的想象力是多么快乐、多么活跃、多么多疑、多么忙碌啊！

Harriet smiled again, and her smiles grew stronger.
哈丽特又笑了，而且笑得更灿烂了。

Chapter VIII
第八章

Harriet slept at Hartfield that night. For some weeks past she had been spending more than half her time there, and gradually getting to have a bed-room appropriated to herself; and Emma judged it best in every respect, safest and kindest, to keep her with them as much as possible just at present. She was obliged to go the next morning for an hour or two to Mrs. Goddard’s, but it was then to be settled that she should return to Hartfield, to make a regular visit of some days.
那天晚上，哈丽特睡在哈特菲尔德。过去几个星期，她一半以上的时间都在那里度过，渐渐地有了一间属于自己的卧室。艾玛认为从各方面来说最好的办法就是让她尽可能多地留在他们身边，这既安全又友善。第二天早上，她不得不去戈达德夫人家待上一两个小时，但随后就决定她应该返回哈特菲尔德，定期去拜访几天。

While she was gone, Mr. Knightley called, and sat some time with Mr. Woodhouse and Emma, till Mr. Woodhouse, who had previously made up his mind to walk out, was persuaded by his daughter not to defer it, and was induced by the entreaties of both, though against the scruples of his own civility, to leave Mr. Knightley for that purpose. Mr. Knightley, who had nothing of ceremony about him, was offering by his short, decided answers, an amusing contrast to the protracted apologies and civil hesitations of the other.
当她离开时，奈特利先生打电话来，并与伍德豪斯先生和艾玛一起坐了一会儿，直到伍德豪斯先生之前决定退出，在他女儿的劝说下不要推迟，并被诱导尽管他不顾自己的礼貌，但两人都恳求他离开奈特利先生。奈特利先生一点也不拘礼，他的回答简短而坚决，与对方漫长的道歉和文明的犹豫形成了有趣的对比。

‘Well, I believe, if you will excuse me, Mr. Knightley, if you will not consider me as doing a very rude thing, I shall take Emma’s advice and go out for a quarter of an hour. As the sun is out, I believe I had better take my three turns while I can. I treat you without ceremony, Mr. Knightley. We invalids think we are privileged people.’
“好吧，我相信，如果您能原谅我，奈特利先生，如果您不认为我做了一件非常粗鲁的事情，我会接受艾玛的建议，出去一刻钟。太阳出来了，我想我最好趁还能转的时候转三圈。我对待您毫不客气，奈特利先生。我们残疾人认为我们是有特权的人。

‘My dear sir, do not make a stranger of me.’
“亲爱的先生，请不要让我变得陌生。”

‘I leave an excellent substitute in my daughter. Emma will be happy to entertain you. And therefore I think I will beg your excuse and take my three turns—my winter walk.’
“我给女儿留下了一个很好的替代品。艾玛将很高兴招待您。因此，我想我会请求你的原谅，并进行我的三圈——我的冬季散步。

‘You cannot do better, sir.’
“你不能做得更好了，先生。”

‘I would ask for the pleasure of your company, Mr. Knightley, but I am a very slow walker, and my pace would be tedious to you; and, besides, you have another long walk before you, to Donwell Abbey.’
“奈特利先生，我希望能有您的陪伴，但我走路很慢，我的步伐对您来说会很乏味；而且，除此之外，你还有一段很长的路要走，去唐威尔修道院。

‘Thank you, sir, thank you; I am going this moment myself; and I think the sooner you go the better. I will fetch your greatcoat and open the garden door for you.’
“谢谢您，先生，谢谢您；我现在要亲自去；我认为你越早去越好。我会去拿你的大衣并为你打开花园的门。

Mr. Woodhouse at last was off; but Mr. Knightley, instead of being immediately off likewise, sat down again, seemingly inclined for more chat. He began speaking of Harriet, and speaking of her with more voluntary praise than Emma had ever heard before.
伍德豪斯先生终于下班了。但奈特利先生并没有立即离开，而是又坐下来，似乎想再聊聊。他开始谈论哈丽特，而且谈论她时的赞美之情比艾玛以前听过的还要多。

‘I cannot rate her beauty as you do,’ said he; ‘but she is a pretty little creature, and I am inclined to think very well of her disposition. Her character depends upon those she is with; but in good hands she will turn out a valuable woman.’
“我无法像你一样评价她的美丽，”他说。 “但她是一个漂亮的小生物，我倾向于认为她的性情很好。她的性格取决于与她在一起的人；但如果得到好的照顾，她会成为一个有价值的女人。”

‘I am glad you think so; and the good hands, I hope, may not be wanting.’
“我很高兴你这么想；我希望，好的人手可能并不缺乏。

‘Come,’ said he, ‘you are anxious for a compliment, so I will tell you that you have improved her. You have cured her of her school-girl’s giggle; she really does you credit.’
“来吧，”他说，“你急于得到称赞，所以我会告诉你，你已经改善了她。”你已经治愈了她女学生般的咯咯笑；她真的值得你信任。

‘Thank you. I should be mortified indeed if I did not believe I had been of some use; but it is not every body who will bestow praise where they may. You do not often overpower me with it.’
'谢谢。如果我不相信自己有什么用处，我确实会感到羞愧。但并不是每个人都会尽其所能地给予赞扬。你并不经常用它来压倒我。

‘You are expecting her again, you say, this morning?’
“你是说，今天早上你又在等她吗？”

‘Almost every moment. She has been gone longer already than she intended.’
'几乎每时每刻。她已经离开的时间比她预期的要长了。

‘Something has happened to delay her; some visitors perhaps.’
“发生了什么事耽误了她；也许有一些访客。

‘Highbury gossips!—Tiresome wretches!’
“海布里的流言蜚语！——讨厌的家伙！”

‘Harriet may not consider every body tiresome that you would.’
“哈丽特可能不会像你那样认为每个人都令人厌烦。”

Emma knew this was too true for contradiction, and therefore said nothing. He presently added, with a smile,
艾玛知道这是事实，不能自相矛盾，因此什么也没说。他随即微笑着补充道：

‘I do not pretend to fix on times or places, but I must tell you that I have good reason to believe your little friend will soon hear of something to her advantage.’
“我不会假装固定时间或地点，但我必须告诉你，我有充分的理由相信你的小朋友很快就会听到一些对她有利的事情。”

‘Indeed! how so? of what sort?’
'的确！为何如此？什么样的？

‘A very serious sort, I assure you;’ still smiling.
“我向你保证，这是一种非常严肃的类型；”仍然微笑着。

‘Very serious! I can think of but one thing—Who is in love with her? Who makes you their confidant?’
'很严重！我只能想到一件事——谁爱着她？谁让你成为他们的知己呢？

Emma was more than half in hopes of Mr. Elton’s having dropt a hint. Mr. Knightley was a sort of general friend and adviser, and she knew Mr. Elton looked up to him.
艾玛一半以上希望埃尔顿先生能给出暗示。奈特利先生是一位普通的朋友和顾问，她知道埃尔顿先生很尊敬他。

‘I have reason to think,’ he replied, ‘that Harriet Smith will soon have an offer of marriage, and from a most unexceptionable quarter:—Robert Martin is the man. Her visit to Abbey-Mill, this summer, seems to have done his business. He is desperately in love and means to marry her.’
“我有理由认为，”他回答道，“哈丽特·史密斯很快就会收到求婚，而且来自最无可挑剔的方面：——罗伯特·马丁就是那个男人。今年夏天她对阿比米尔的访问似乎完成了他的任务。他非常爱她，并打算娶她。

‘He is very obliging,’ said Emma; ‘but is he sure that Harriet means to marry him?’
“他非常乐于助人，”艾玛说。 “但是他确定哈丽特打算嫁给他吗？”

‘Well, well, means to make her an offer then. Will that do? He came to the Abbey two evenings ago, on purpose to consult me about it. He knows I have a thorough regard for him and all his family, and, I believe, considers me as one of his best friends. He came to ask me whether I thought it would be imprudent in him to settle so early; whether I thought her too young: in short, whether I approved his choice altogether; having some apprehension perhaps of her being considered (especially since your making so much of her) as in a line of society above him. I was very much pleased with all that he said. I never hear better sense from any one than Robert Martin. He always speaks to the purpose; open, straightforward, and very well judging. He told me every thing; his circumstances and plans, and what they all proposed doing in the event of his marriage. He is an excellent young man, both as son and brother. I had no hesitation in advising him to marry. He proved to me that he could afford it; and that being the case, I was convinced he could not do better. I praised the fair lady too, and altogether sent him away very happy. If he had never esteemed my opinion before, he would have thought highly of me then; and, I dare say, left the house thinking me the best friend and counsellor man ever had. This happened the night before last. Now, as we may fairly suppose, he would not allow much time to pass before he spoke to the lady, and as he does not appear to have spoken yesterday, it is not unlikely that he should be at Mrs. Goddard’s to-day; and she may be detained by a visitor, without thinking him at all a tiresome wretch.’
‘好吧，好吧，那就意味着向她提出要约。这样可以吗？两天前他来到修道院，特意向我请教此事。他知道我非常尊重他和他的家人，而且我相信，他认为我是他最​​好的朋友之一。他来问我，我是否认为他这么早安顿下来是不明智的？我是否认为她太年轻：简而言之，我是否完全同意他的选择？也许有些担心她被认为是在他之上的社会阶层（尤其是因为你对她如此重视）。我对他所说的一切感到非常满意。我从来没有听过比罗伯特·马丁更明智的人。他说话总是有目的；开放、直率、判断力非常好。他告诉了我一切；他的情况和计划，以及他们在他结婚后打算做什么。无论是作为儿子还是作为兄弟，他都是一个优秀的年轻人。我毫不犹豫地建议他结婚。他向我证明了他能负担得起；既然如此，我确信他不能做得更好。我也夸奖了这位美丽的女士，然后高高兴兴地送他走了。如果他以前不尊重我的意见，那时他也会对我评价很高；而且，我敢说，他离开家时认为我是人类有史以来最好的朋友和顾问。这件事发生在前天晚上。现在，正如我们可以合理地假设的那样，他在与这位女士说话之前不会花太多时间，而且由于他昨天似乎没有说话，所以他今天应该在戈达德夫人家也不是不可能的；因为他今天应该在戈达德夫人那里。她可能会被一位访客拘留，而根本不认为他是一个令人厌烦的坏蛋。

‘Pray, Mr. Knightley,’ said Emma, who had been smiling to herself through a great part of this speech, ‘how do you know that Mr. Martin did not speak yesterday?’
“请问，奈特利先生，”艾玛在演讲的大部分时间里一直微笑着，“你怎么知道马丁先生昨天没有说话？”

‘Certainly,’ replied he, surprized, ‘I do not absolutely know it; but it may be inferred. Was not she the whole day with you?’
“当然，”他惊讶地回答，“我并不完全知道；但我知道。”但可以推断。她不是一整天都和你在一起吗？

‘Come,’ said she, ‘I will tell you something, in return for what you have told me. He did speak yesterday—that is, he wrote, and was refused.’
“来吧，”她说，“我会告诉你一些事情，作为你告诉我的回报。他昨天确实说过话——也就是说，他写了信，但被拒绝了。”

This was obliged to be repeated before it could be believed; and Mr. Knightley actually looked red with surprize and displeasure, as he stood up, in tall indignation, and said,
这句话必须重复一遍才让人相信。奈特利先生的脸色实际上因惊讶和不满而涨得通红，他站起来，义愤填膺地说：

‘Then she is a greater simpleton than I ever believed her. What is the foolish girl about?’
“那么她比我想象的更傻。”那个傻姑娘到底在说什么？

‘Oh! to be sure,’ cried Emma, ‘it is always incomprehensible to a man that a woman should ever refuse an offer of marriage. A man always imagines a woman to be ready for any body who asks her.’
'哦！确实，”艾玛喊道，“男人总是无法理解女人竟然会拒绝求婚。男人总是想象女人已经为任何有需要的人做好了准备。

‘Nonsense! a man does not imagine any such thing. But what is the meaning of this? Harriet Smith refuse Robert Martin? madness, if it is so; but I hope you are mistaken.’
'废话！一个人不会想象这样的事情。但这有什么意义呢？哈丽特·史密斯拒绝罗伯特·马丁？疯狂，如果是这样的话；但我希望你错了。

‘I saw her answer!—nothing could be clearer.’
“我看到了她的回答！——再清楚不过了。”

‘You saw her answer!—you wrote her answer too. Emma, this is your doing. You persuaded her to refuse him.’
‘你看到了她的答案！——你也写了她的答案。艾玛，这是你做的。你说服了她拒绝他。

‘And if I did, (which, however, I am far from allowing) I should not feel that I had done wrong. Mr. Martin is a very respectable young man, but I cannot admit him to be Harriet’s equal; and am rather surprized indeed that he should have ventured to address her. By your account, he does seem to have had some scruples. It is a pity that they were ever got over.’
“如果我这样做了（然而，我远不允许这样做），我就不应该觉得自己做错了。马丁先生是一位非常值得尊敬的年轻人，但我不能承认他能与哈丽特相提并论。我确实很惊讶他竟敢对她说话。从你的说法来看，他似乎确实有所顾忌。遗憾的是他们最终还是被克服了。

‘Not Harriet’s equal!’ exclaimed Mr. Knightley loudly and warmly; and with calmer asperity, added, a few moments afterwards, ‘No, he is not her equal indeed, for he is as much her superior in sense as in situation. Emma, your infatuation about that girl blinds you. What are Harriet Smith’s claims, either of birth, nature or education, to any connexion higher than Robert Martin? She is the natural daughter of nobody knows whom, with probably no settled provision at all, and certainly no respectable relations. She is known only as parlour-boarder at a common school. She is not a sensible girl, nor a girl of any information. She has been taught nothing useful, and is too young and too simple to have acquired any thing herself. At her age she can have no experience, and with her little wit, is not very likely ever to have any that can avail her. She is pretty, and she is good tempered, and that is all. My only scruple in advising the match was on his account, as being beneath his deserts, and a bad connexion for him. I felt that, as to fortune, in all probability he might do much better; and that as to a rational companion or useful helpmate, he could not do worse. But I could not reason so to a man in love, and was willing to trust to there being no harm in her, to her having that sort of disposition, which, in good hands, like his, might be easily led aright and turn out very well. The advantage of the match I felt to be all on her side; and had not the smallest doubt (nor have I now) that there would be a general cry-out upon her extreme good luck. Even your satisfaction I made sure of. It crossed my mind immediately that you would not regret your friend’s leaving Highbury, for the sake of her being settled so well. I remember saying to myself, ‘Even Emma, with all her partiality for Harriet, will think this a good match.’’
“没有哈丽特能比得上！”奈特利先生热情地大声喊道。过了一会儿，他用更加平静、严厉的口气补充道：“不，他确实比不上她，因为他无论在意义上还是在处境上都比她优越。”艾玛，你对那个女孩的迷恋蒙蔽了你的双眼。哈丽雅特·史密斯（Harriet Smith）声称自己与罗伯特·马丁（Robert Martin）有什么关系，无论是出身、性格还是教育？她是无人知晓的亲生女儿，可能根本没有固定的条件，当然也没有值得尊敬的亲戚。人们只知道她是一所普通学校的寄宿生。她不是一个懂事的女孩，也不是一个没有任何信息的女孩。她没有学到任何有用的东西，而且她太年轻、太简单，自己无法学到任何东西。在她这个年纪，她可能没有任何经验，而且以她的小聪明，不太可能有任何对她有用的东西。她很漂亮，脾气也很好，仅此而已。我在为这场比赛提供建议时唯一的顾虑是考虑到他的原因，因为这在他的应得之下，并且与他有不好的关系。我觉得，就命运而言，他很可能会做得更好。作为一个理性的伴侣或有用的助手，他不能做得更糟。但我不能对一个恋爱中的男人这么说，我愿意相信她不会受到伤害，相信她有这样的性格，如果有像他这样的好人，可能很容易被引导到正确的方向并结果。很好。我觉得这场比赛的优势完全在她这边；我毫不怀疑（现在我也不怀疑），人们都会为她的好运而欢呼。连你的满意我都确定了。我立刻想到，你不会因为你的朋友离开海布里而感到遗憾，因为她能安顿得这么好。 我记得我对自己说，‘即使是艾玛，尽管她偏爱哈丽特，也会认为这是一个很好的搭配。’’

‘I cannot help wondering at your knowing so little of Emma as to say any such thing. What! think a farmer, (and with all his sense and all his merit Mr. Martin is nothing more,) a good match for my intimate friend! Not regret her leaving Highbury for the sake of marrying a man whom I could never admit as an acquaintance of my own! I wonder you should think it possible for me to have such feelings. I assure you mine are very different. I must think your statement by no means fair. You are not just to Harriet’s claims. They would be estimated very differently by others as well as myself; Mr. Martin may be the richest of the two, but he is undoubtedly her inferior as to rank in society.—The sphere in which she moves is much above his.—It would be a degradation.’
“我不禁想知道，你对艾玛的了解如此之少，竟然会说出这样的话。什么！想想一个农民（马丁先生凭借他所有的理智和所有优点，仅此而已）与我的亲密朋友非常匹配！我不后悔她离开海布里是为了嫁给一个我永远不会承认是我自己的熟人的男人！我不知道你是否认为我可能有这样的感觉。我向你保证我的非常不同。我想你的说法绝对不公平。你不仅仅支持哈丽特的主张。其他人和我自己对它们的评价会有很大不同。马丁先生可能是两人中最富有的，但就社会地位而言，他无疑不如她。——她活动的范围比他高得多。——这将是一种堕落。

‘A degradation to illegitimacy and ignorance, to be married to a respectable, intelligent gentleman-farmer!’
“嫁给一位受人尊敬、聪明的绅士农民，是对私生子和无知的侮辱！”

‘As to the circumstances of her birth, though in a legal sense she may be called Nobody, it will not hold in common sense. She is not to pay for the offence of others, by being held below the level of those with whom she is brought up.—There can scarcely be a doubt that her father is a gentleman—and a gentleman of fortune.—Her allowance is very liberal; nothing has ever been grudged for her improvement or comfort.—That she is a gentleman’s daughter, is indubitable to me; that she associates with gentlemen’s daughters, no one, I apprehend, will deny.—She is superior to Mr. Robert Martin.’
“至于她的出生情况，虽然在法律意义上她可以被称为无名之辈，但在常识上却站不住脚。”她不应该因为别人的冒犯而付出代价，因为她的地位低于与她一起长大的人。——毫无疑问，她的父亲是一位绅士——而且是一位富有的绅士。——她的津贴是非常自由；没有人会因为她的进步或舒适而感到不满。——我确信她是一位绅士的女儿；她与绅士的女儿们交往，我想，没有人会否认这一点。——她比罗伯特·马丁先生优越。

‘Whoever might be her parents,’ said Mr. Knightley, ‘whoever may have had the charge of her, it does not appear to have been any part of their plan to introduce her into what you would call good society. After receiving a very indifferent education she is left in Mrs. Goddard’s hands to shift as she can;—to move, in short, in Mrs. Goddard’s line, to have Mrs. Goddard’s acquaintance. Her friends evidently thought this good enough for her; and it was good enough. She desired nothing better herself. Till you chose to turn her into a friend, her mind had no distaste for her own set, nor any ambition beyond it. She was as happy as possible with the Martins in the summer. She had no sense of superiority then. If she has it now, you have given it. You have been no friend to Harriet Smith, Emma. Robert Martin would never have proceeded so far, if he had not felt persuaded of her not being disinclined to him. I know him well. He has too much real feeling to address any woman on the haphazard of selfish passion. And as to conceit, he is the farthest from it of any man I know. Depend upon it he had encouragement.’
“无论谁是她的父母，”奈特利先生说，“无论谁负责照顾她，他们似乎都没有计划将她引入所谓的上流社会。”在接受了非常冷漠的教育之后，她被留在戈达德夫人手中，尽可能地转移；简而言之，按照戈达德夫人的路线，转移，结识戈达德夫人。她的朋友们显然认为这对她来说已经足够了。这已经足够好了。她自己也没有什么更好的愿望。在你选择把她变成朋友之前，她的思想对她自己的群体没有厌恶，也没有任何超越它的野心。夏天她和马丁一家在一起过得很开心。那时的她，没有什么优越感。如果她现在拥有了，那么你已经给了它。艾玛，你不是哈里特·史密斯的朋友。如果罗伯特·马丁没有被说服，相信她不会对他不感兴趣，他永远不会走到这一步。我很了解他。他有太多的真情实感，不会因为自私的激情而随意对任何女人说话。至于自负，他是我所认识的人中最不自负的。相信他得到了鼓励。

It was most convenient to Emma not to make a direct reply to this assertion; she chose rather to take up her own line of the subject again.
对于艾玛来说，最好不要直接回应这个说法。她宁愿选择再次开始自己的主题。

‘You are a very warm friend to Mr. Martin; but, as I said before, are unjust to Harriet. Harriet’s claims to marry well are not so contemptible as you represent them. She is not a clever girl, but she has better sense than you are aware of, and does not deserve to have her understanding spoken of so slightingly. Waiving that point, however, and supposing her to be, as you describe her, only pretty and good-natured, let me tell you, that in the degree she possesses them, they are not trivial recommendations to the world in general, for she is, in fact, a beautiful girl, and must be thought so by ninety-nine people out of an hundred; and till it appears that men are much more philosophic on the subject of beauty than they are generally supposed; till they do fall in love with well-informed minds instead of handsome faces, a girl, with such loveliness as Harriet, has a certainty of being admired and sought after, of having the power of chusing from among many, consequently a claim to be nice. Her good-nature, too, is not so very slight a claim, comprehending, as it does, real, thorough sweetness of temper and manner, a very humble opinion of herself, and a great readiness to be pleased with other people. I am very much mistaken if your sex in general would not think such beauty, and such temper, the highest claims a woman could possess.’
“你是马丁先生非常热情的朋友；但是，正如我之前所说，这对哈里特不公平。哈丽特声称要嫁得好，并不像你代表的那样令人鄙视。她不是一个聪明的女孩，但她的理智比你想象的要好，她的理解力不值得被如此轻视。然而，放弃这一点，假设她像你所描述的那样，只是漂亮和善良，让我告诉你，就她所拥有的程度而言，它们对整个世界来说并不是微不足道的建议，因为她事实上，她是一个美丽的女孩，一百个人中有九十九个人一定这么认为；直到人们发现，人们在美的问题上比他们普遍认为的更有哲理；直到她们真正爱上的是消息灵通的头脑而不是英俊的面孔，一个像哈丽特这样可爱的女孩，一定会受到钦佩和追捧，拥有从众多人中脱颖而出的能力，因此可以自称是好的。她的善良本性也不是那么微不足道的，事实上，她的脾气和举止真实而彻底，对自己的看法非常谦虚，并且非常愿意取悦他人。如果你们一般人不认为这样的美丽和这样的脾气是女人所能拥有的最高要求，那我就大错特错了。

‘Upon my word, Emma, to hear you abusing the reason you have, is almost enough to make me think so too. Better be without sense, than misapply it as you do.’
“据我所知，艾玛，听到你滥用你所拥有的理由，几乎足以让我也这么认为。最好是毫无理智，而不是像你那样误用它。

‘To be sure!’ cried she playfully. ‘I know that is the feeling of you all. I know that such a girl as Harriet is exactly what every man delights in—what at once bewitches his senses and satisfies his judgment. Oh! Harriet may pick and chuse. Were you, yourself, ever to marry, she is the very woman for you. And is she, at seventeen, just entering into life, just beginning to be known, to be wondered at because she does not accept the first offer she receives? No—pray let her have time to look about her.’
“当然！”她顽皮地喊道。 “我知道你们所有人都有这种感觉。我知道像哈丽特这样的女孩正是每个男人所喜爱的——既能迷惑他的感官，又能满足他的判断力。哦！哈丽特可能会做出选择。如果你自己要结婚的话，她就是最适合你的女人。十七岁的她是否刚刚进入生活，刚刚开始被人认识，因为她不接受她收到的第一个提议而被人惊奇？不——请让她有时间看看自己。”

‘I have always thought it a very foolish intimacy,’ said Mr. Knightley presently, ‘though I have kept my thoughts to myself; but I now perceive that it will be a very unfortunate one for Harriet. You will puff her up with such ideas of her own beauty, and of what she has a claim to, that, in a little while, nobody within her reach will be good enough for her. Vanity working on a weak head, produces every sort of mischief. Nothing so easy as for a young lady to raise her expectations too high. Miss Harriet Smith may not find offers of marriage flow in so fast, though she is a very pretty girl. Men of sense, whatever you may chuse to say, do not want silly wives. Men of family would not be very fond of connecting themselves with a girl of such obscurity— and most prudent men would be afraid of the inconvenience and disgrace they might be involved in, when the mystery of her parentage came to be revealed. Let her marry Robert Martin, and she is safe, respectable, and happy for ever; but if you encourage her to expect to marry greatly, and teach her to be satisfied with nothing less than a man of consequence and large fortune, she may be a parlour-boarder at Mrs. Goddard’s all the rest of her life—or, at least, (for Harriet Smith is a girl who will marry somebody or other,) till she grow desperate, and is glad to catch at the old writing-master’s son.’
“我一直认为这是一种非常愚蠢的亲密关系，”奈特利先生不久说道，“尽管我一直把自己的想法保密；但我现在意识到这对哈丽特来说将是非常不幸的。你会用这样的想法来夸大她自己的美丽，以及她所拥有的东西，不久之后，在她力所能及的范围内，没有人会配得上她。虚荣心作用于软弱的头脑，会产生各种危害。对于一位年轻女士来说，没有什么比把自己的期望提高得太高更容易的了。哈里特·史密斯小姐可能不会发现如此之快的求婚，尽管她是一个非常漂亮的女孩。有理智的男人，不管你怎么说，都不想要愚蠢的妻子。有家庭的男人不会很喜欢与这样默默无闻的女孩交往——而且大多数谨慎的男人都会担心，当她的出身之谜被揭露时，他们可能会陷入不便和耻辱。让她嫁给罗伯特·马丁，她就会永远安全、受人尊敬、幸福快乐；但如果你鼓励她期望嫁得好，并教导她满足于一个有影响力和巨额财富的男人，她可能会在戈达德夫人的余生中成为一名寄宿生——或者，在至少，（因为哈丽特史密斯是一个会嫁给某人或其他人的女孩）直到她变得绝望，并很高兴抓住老写作大师的儿子。

‘We think so very differently on this point, Mr. Knightley, that there can be no use in canvassing it. We shall only be making each other more angry. But as to my letting her marry Robert Martin, it is impossible; she has refused him, and so decidedly, I think, as must prevent any second application. She must abide by the evil of having refused him, whatever it may be; and as to the refusal itself, I will not pretend to say that I might not influence her a little; but I assure you there was very little for me or for any body to do. His appearance is so much against him, and his manner so bad, that if she ever were disposed to favour him, she is not now. I can imagine, that before she had seen any body superior, she might tolerate him. He was the brother of her friends, and he took pains to please her; and altogether, having seen nobody better (that must have been his great assistant) she might not, while she was at Abbey-Mill, find him disagreeable. But the case is altered now. She knows now what gentlemen are; and nothing but a gentleman in education and manner has any chance with Harriet.’
“奈特利先生，我们在这一点上的想法非常不同，游说它是没有用的。”我们只会让彼此更加生气。但要让她嫁给罗伯特·马丁，那是不可能的事；她已经拒绝了他，而且我认为，她拒绝了他，因此必须阻止任何第二次申请。她必须忍受拒绝他的罪恶，无论是什么；至于拒绝本身，我不会假装说我可能不会对她产生一点影响。但我向你保证，我或任何人都无事可做。他的外表太不适合他了，他的举止也太糟糕了，如果她曾经愿意喜欢他的话，现在却不会了。我可以想象，在她没有见过任何优秀的身体之前，她可能会容忍他。他是她朋友的兄弟，他煞费苦心地取悦她。总而言之，她在修道院磨坊期间，没有见过比他更好的人（那一定是他的好助手），她可能不会觉得他令人讨厌。但现在情况发生了变化。她现在知道了什么是绅士；只有受过教育、举止得体的绅士才有机会与哈丽特相处。

‘Nonsense, errant nonsense, as ever was talked!’ cried Mr. Knightley.—‘Robert Martin’s manners have sense, sincerity, and good-humour to recommend them; and his mind has more true gentility than Harriet Smith could understand.’
“胡言乱语，错误的胡言乱语，一如既往！”奈特利先生喊道。“罗伯特·马丁的举止明智，真诚，幽默，值得推荐；他的思想比哈丽特·史密斯（Harriet Smith）更能理解。

Emma made no answer, and tried to look cheerfully unconcerned, but was really feeling uncomfortable and wanting him very much to be gone. She did not repent what she had done; she still thought herself a better judge of such a point of female right and refinement than he could be; but yet she had a sort of habitual respect for his judgment in general, which made her dislike having it so loudly against her; and to have him sitting just opposite to her in angry state, was very disagreeable. Some minutes passed in this unpleasant silence, with only one attempt on Emma’s side to talk of the weather, but he made no answer. He was thinking. The result of his thoughts appeared at last in these words.
艾玛没有回答，试图表现出一副毫不在意的样子，但她真的感到不舒服，非常希望他离开。她并没有后悔自己的所作所为；她仍然认为自己比他更能判断女性的权利和优雅。但总的来说，她对他的判断有一种习惯性的尊重，这使她不喜欢有人如此大声地反对她。而让他愤怒地坐在她对面，是非常不舒服的。在这令人不快的沉默中过了几分钟，艾玛这边只有一次尝试谈论天气，但他没有回答。他在想。他的思考结果终于在这句话中显现出来了。

‘Robert Martin has no great loss—if he can but think so; and I hope it will not be long before he does. Your views for Harriet are best known to yourself; but as you make no secret of your love of match-making, it is fair to suppose that views, and plans, and projects you have;—and as a friend I shall just hint to you that if Elton is the man, I think it will be all labour in vain.’
“罗伯特·马丁并没有什么重大损失——如果他能这么想的话；我希望他不久就会这么做。你对哈丽特的看法只有你自己最清楚；但既然你毫不掩饰你对媒人的热爱，那么可以公平地假设你有这些观点、计划和项目；——作为一个朋友，我只想向你暗示，如果埃尔顿就是那个人，我想所有的努力都将是徒劳的。

Emma laughed and disclaimed. He continued,
艾玛笑着否认。他继续，

‘Depend upon it, Elton will not do. Elton is a very good sort of man, and a very respectable vicar of Highbury, but not at all likely to make an imprudent match. He knows the value of a good income as well as any body. Elton may talk sentimentally, but he will act rationally. He is as well acquainted with his own claims, as you can be with Harriet’s. He knows that he is a very handsome young man, and a great favourite wherever he goes; and from his general way of talking in unreserved moments, when there are only men present, I am convinced that he does not mean to throw himself away. I have heard him speak with great animation of a large family of young ladies that his sisters are intimate with, who have all twenty thousand pounds apiece.’
“相信吧，埃尔顿不会这么做的。埃尔顿是一个非常好的人，也是一位非常受人尊敬的海布里牧师，但绝不可能进行轻率的匹配。他和任何人一样知道高收入的价值。埃尔顿可能会感伤地说话，但他会理性地行事。他对自己的主张非常熟悉，就像你对哈丽特的主张一样熟悉。他知道自己是一个非常英俊的年轻人，无论走到哪里都深受人们的喜爱；从他在只有男人在场的时候毫无保留地说话的一般方式来看，我确信他并没有打算抛弃自己。我曾听他兴高采烈地讲述过一个由年轻女士组成的大家庭，他们与他的姐妹们关系密切，每人都有两万英镑。

‘I am very much obliged to you,’ said Emma, laughing again. ‘If I had set my heart on Mr. Elton’s marrying Harriet, it would have been very kind to open my eyes; but at present I only want to keep Harriet to myself. I have done with match-making indeed. I could never hope to equal my own doings at Randalls. I shall leave off while I am well.’
“我非常感谢你，”艾玛又笑了起来。 “如果我一心想让埃尔顿先生与哈丽特结婚，那么我要是能睁开眼睛就太好了。”但目前我只想把哈丽特留给自己。我确实已经完成了牵线搭桥。我永远无法指望能与自己在兰德尔斯的所作所为相媲美。等我身体好了我就会离开。

‘Good morning to you,’—said he, rising and walking off abruptly. He was very much vexed. He felt the disappointment of the young man, and was mortified to have been the means of promoting it, by the sanction he had given; and the part which he was persuaded Emma had taken in the affair, was provoking him exceedingly.
“早上好，”他说着，突然站起来走开了。他很烦恼。他感受到这个年轻人的失望，并为他所给予的制裁而成为促进这种失望的手段而感到羞愧。他确信艾玛在这件事中所扮演的角色，这让他非常恼火。

Emma remained in a state of vexation too; but there was more indistinctness in the causes of her’s, than in his. She did not always feel so absolutely satisfied with herself, so entirely convinced that her opinions were right and her adversary’s wrong, as Mr. Knightley. He walked off in more complete self-approbation than he left for her. She was not so materially cast down, however, but that a little time and the return of Harriet were very adequate restoratives. Harriet’s staying away so long was beginning to make her uneasy. The possibility of the young man’s coming to Mrs. Goddard’s that morning, and meeting with Harriet and pleading his own cause, gave alarming ideas. The dread of such a failure after all became the prominent uneasiness; and when Harriet appeared, and in very good spirits, and without having any such reason to give for her long absence, she felt a satisfaction which settled her with her own mind, and convinced her, that let Mr. Knightley think or say what he would, she had done nothing which woman’s friendship and woman’s feelings would not justify.
艾玛也同样陷入了烦恼之中。但她的原因比他的原因更加模糊。她并不总是像奈特利先生那样对自己感到那么绝对满意，那么完全相信自己的观点是正确的，而她的对手是错误的。他离开时的心情比离开她时更加彻底的自我肯定。然而，她在物质上并没有那么沮丧，但一点时间和哈丽特的回归就足以让她恢复元气。哈丽特离开这么久，开始让她感到不安。那天早上，年轻人有可能来到戈达德夫人家，与哈丽特会面，为自己辩护，这让人产生了令人担忧的想法。毕竟，对这种失败的恐惧变成了显着的不安。当哈丽特出现时，她的精神非常好，而且没有任何理由为她长期缺席而给出任何这样的理由，她感到一种满足，这种满足使她安定下来，并说服了她，让奈特利先生思考或说出他所说的话。无论如何，她没有做过任何女人的友谊和女人的感情都无法证明的事情。

He had frightened her a little about Mr. Elton; but when she considered that Mr. Knightley could not have observed him as she had done, neither with the interest, nor (she must be allowed to tell herself, in spite of Mr. Knightley’s pretensions) with the skill of such an observer on such a question as herself, that he had spoken it hastily and in anger, she was able to believe, that he had rather said what he wished resentfully to be true, than what he knew any thing about. He certainly might have heard Mr. Elton speak with more unreserve than she had ever done, and Mr. Elton might not be of an imprudent, inconsiderate disposition as to money matters; he might naturally be rather attentive than otherwise to them; but then, Mr. Knightley did not make due allowance for the influence of a strong passion at war with all interested motives. Mr. Knightley saw no such passion, and of course thought nothing of its effects; but she saw too much of it to feel a doubt of its overcoming any hesitations that a reasonable prudence might originally suggest; and more than a reasonable, becoming degree of prudence, she was very sure did not belong to Mr. Elton.
他让她对埃尔顿先生感到有点害怕。但当她想到奈特利先生不可能像她那样观察他时，既没有兴趣，也没有（她必须被允许告诉自己，尽管奈特利先生自命不凡）观察者的技巧她相信，他所说的只是他怨恨地希望真实的话，而不是他所知道的事情。他当然可能听到埃尔顿先生的讲话比她以前听过的更加毫无保留，而埃尔顿先生在金钱问题上可能不会表现出轻率、不考虑他人的态度；但他的态度可能比她以前听过的更加毫无保留。他可能自然而然地对他们更加关心。但奈特利先生并没有充分考虑与所有感兴趣的动机相冲突的强烈热情的影响。奈特利先生没有看到这样的热情，当然也没有想到它的影响。但她见识得太多了，因此对它克服了合理的谨慎最初可能暗示的任何犹豫感到怀疑。她非常确信自己不属于埃尔顿先生，这超出了合理的、适当的谨慎程度。

Harriet’s cheerful look and manner established hers: she came back, not to think of Mr. Martin, but to talk of Mr. Elton. Miss Nash had been telling her something, which she repeated immediately with great delight. Mr. Perry had been to Mrs. Goddard’s to attend a sick child, and Miss Nash had seen him, and he had told Miss Nash, that as he was coming back yesterday from Clayton Park, he had met Mr. Elton, and found to his great surprize, that Mr. Elton was actually on his road to London, and not meaning to return till the morrow, though it was the whist-club night, which he had been never known to miss before; and Mr. Perry had remonstrated with him about it, and told him how shabby it was in him, their best player, to absent himself, and tried very much to persuade him to put off his journey only one day; but it would not do; Mr. Elton had been determined to go on, and had said in a very particular way indeed, that he was going on business which he would not put off for any inducement in the world; and something about a very enviable commission, and being the bearer of something exceedingly precious. Mr. Perry could not quite understand him, but he was very sure there must be a lady in the case, and he told him so; and Mr. Elton only looked very conscious and smiling, and rode off in great spirits. Miss Nash had told her all this, and had talked a great deal more about Mr. Elton; and said, looking so very significantly at her, ‘that she did not pretend to understand what his business might be, but she only knew that any woman whom Mr. Elton could prefer, she should think the luckiest woman in the world; for, beyond a doubt, Mr. Elton had not his equal for beauty or agreeableness.’
哈丽特开朗的表情和态度确立了她的态度：她回来不是为了想马丁先生，而是为了谈论埃尔顿先生。纳什小姐告诉了她一些事情，她立即非常高兴地重复了一遍。佩里先生去戈达德夫人家照顾生病的孩子，纳什小姐也见过他，他告诉纳什小姐，昨天他从克莱顿公园回来时，遇见了埃尔顿先生，并发现让他大吃一惊的是，埃尔顿先生实际上正在去伦敦的路上，而且打算明天才回来，尽管那是惠斯特俱乐部之夜，而他以前从来没有错过过这个夜晚。佩里先生曾就此向他提出抗议，并告诉他，作为他们最好的球员，他缺席是多么卑鄙，并极力劝说他推迟一天的行程；但他并没有这么做。但这不行；埃尔顿先生决心要继续下去，而且确实以一种非常特别的方式说道，他要去处理一件事，他不会因为世界上的任何诱惑而推迟。还有一些关于令人羡慕的委托，以及成为极其珍贵的东西的持有者。佩里先生不太明白他的意思，但他非常确定案子里一定有一位女士，他也这么告诉了他。埃尔顿先生看上去神志清醒，面带微笑，精神抖擞地骑马走了。纳什小姐把这一切都告诉了她，还谈了很多关于埃尔顿先生的事。 “她并没有假装明白他的事，但她只知道，埃尔顿先生喜欢的任何女人，她都应该认为是世界上最幸运的女人；”因为，毫无疑问，埃尔顿先生在美丽和宜人方面没有他的对手。

Chapter IX
第九章

Mr. Knightley might quarrel with her, but Emma could not quarrel with herself. He was so much displeased, that it was longer than usual before he came to Hartfield again; and when they did meet, his grave looks shewed that she was not forgiven. She was sorry, but could not repent. On the contrary, her plans and proceedings were more and more justified and endeared to her by the general appearances of the next few days.
奈特利先生可能会和她吵架，但艾玛不能和自己吵架。他非常不高兴，以至于他比平常花了更长的时间才再次来到哈特菲尔德。当他们真正见面时，他严肃的表情表明她没有被原谅。她很抱歉，但无法悔改。相反，从接下来几天的总体表现来看，她的计划和行动越来越合理，也越来越受她喜爱。

The Picture, elegantly framed, came safely to hand soon after Mr. Elton’s return, and being hung over the mantelpiece of the common sitting-room, he got up to look at it, and sighed out his half sentences of admiration just as he ought; and as for Harriet’s feelings, they were visibly forming themselves into as strong and steady an attachment as her youth and sort of mind admitted. Emma was soon perfectly satisfied of Mr. Martin’s being no otherwise remembered, than as he furnished a contrast with Mr. Elton, of the utmost advantage to the latter.
这幅画装帧精美，埃尔顿先生回来​​后不久就安全地送到了手上，挂在公共起居室的壁炉架上，他起身看了看，叹了口气，吐出了半句钦佩之情。 ;至于哈丽特的感情，正如她的年轻和头脑所承认的那样，它们显然正在形成一种强烈而稳定的依恋。艾玛很快就对马丁先生没有被人记住感到非常满意，因为他与埃尔顿先生进行了对比，后者对后者来说是最大的优势。

Her views of improving her little friend’s mind, by a great deal of useful reading and conversation, had never yet led to more than a few first chapters, and the intention of going on to-morrow. It was much easier to chat than to study; much pleasanter to let her imagination range and work at Harriet’s fortune, than to be labouring to enlarge her comprehension or exercise it on sober facts; and the only literary pursuit which engaged Harriet at present, the only mental provision she was making for the evening of life, was the collecting and transcribing all the riddles of every sort that she could meet with, into a thin quarto of hot-pressed paper, made up by her friend, and ornamented with ciphers and trophies.
她希望通过大量有用的阅读和对话来改善小朋友的心智，但她只写了前几章，并打算明天继续。聊天比学习容易得多；让她的想象力发挥作用并为哈丽特的财富发挥作用，比努力扩大她的理解力或根据清醒的事实运用它要愉快得多。哈丽特目前唯一感兴趣的文学追求，她为晚年做的唯一精神准备，就是收集并抄写她能遇到的各种谜语，写成薄薄的热压纸四开本。 ，由她的朋友制作，并装饰有密码和奖杯。

In this age of literature, such collections on a very grand scale are not uncommon. Miss Nash, head-teacher at Mrs. Goddard’s, had written out at least three hundred; and Harriet, who had taken the first hint of it from her, hoped, with Miss Woodhouse’s help, to get a great many more. Emma assisted with her invention, memory and taste; and as Harriet wrote a very pretty hand, it was likely to be an arrangement of the first order, in form as well as quantity.
在这个文学时代，如此大规模的藏书并不罕见。戈达德夫人学校的校长纳什小姐至少写了三百篇；哈丽雅特从她那里得到了第一个暗示，希望在伍德豪斯小姐的帮助下，能得到更多的暗示。艾玛的发明、记忆力和品味都得到了帮助。哈丽特写得非常漂亮，无论是形式还是数量，这都可能是一流的安排。

Mr. Woodhouse was almost as much interested in the business as the girls, and tried very often to recollect something worth their putting in. ‘So many clever riddles as there used to be when he was young— he wondered he could not remember them! but he hoped he should in time.’ And it always ended in ‘Kitty, a fair but frozen maid.’
伍德豪斯先生对这个生意几乎和女孩们一样感兴趣，经常试图回忆起一些值得她们投入的东西。但他希望他能及时这么做。”而且总是以“基蒂，一个美丽但冰冷的女仆。”

His good friend Perry, too, whom he had spoken to on the subject, did not at present recollect any thing of the riddle kind; but he had desired Perry to be upon the watch, and as he went about so much, something, he thought, might come from that quarter.
他曾与他的好朋友佩里谈过这个问题，但目前他也不记得任何类似谜语的事情了。但他希望佩里能保持警惕，他走来走去，他想，可能会有什么东西来自那个地方。

It was by no means his daughter’s wish that the intellects of Highbury in general should be put under requisition. Mr. Elton was the only one whose assistance she asked. He was invited to contribute any really good enigmas, charades, or conundrums that he might recollect; and she had the pleasure of seeing him most intently at work with his recollections; and at the same time, as she could perceive, most earnestly careful that nothing ungallant, nothing that did not breathe a compliment to the sex should pass his lips. They owed to him their two or three politest puzzles; and the joy and exultation with which at last he recalled, and rather sentimentally recited, that well-known charade,
海布里的所有智慧都被征用，这绝不是他女儿的愿望。埃尔顿先生是她唯一请求帮助的人。他被邀请贡献出他可能记得的任何真正好的谜语、字谜游戏或难题。她很高兴看到他全神贯注地处理他的回忆。与此同时，正如她所察觉的，他极其认真地小心，不让任何不礼貌、不恭维女性的言论从他嘴里传出来。他们把两三个最有礼貌的谜题归功于他。最后他怀着喜悦和兴奋的心情回忆起了那个众所周知的谜语，并且颇为伤感地背诵着，

My first doth affliction denote,
我的第一个苦难表示，

Which my second is destin’d to feel
我的第二个注定会感受到

And my whole is the best antidote
而我的整个就是最好的解药

That affliction to soften and heal.—
那种痛苦要软化和治愈。——

made her quite sorry to acknowledge that they had transcribed it some pages ago already.
让她非常遗憾地承认他们在几页前就已经转录了它。

‘Why will not you write one yourself for us, Mr. Elton?’ said she; ‘that is the only security for its freshness; and nothing could be easier to you.’
“埃尔顿先生，你为什么不亲自为我们写一份呢？”她说道。 “这是保证其新鲜度的唯一保证；对你来说，没有什么比这更容易的了。

‘Oh no! he had never written, hardly ever, any thing of the kind in his life. The stupidest fellow! He was afraid not even Miss Woodhouse’—he stopt a moment— ‘or Miss Smith could inspire him.’
'不好了！他一生中从未写过、几乎从来没有写过类似的东西。最愚蠢的家伙！他担心连伍德豪斯小姐都无法激励他——他停顿了一下——“或者史密斯小姐也无法激励他。”

The very next day however produced some proof of inspiration. He called for a few moments, just to leave a piece of paper on the table containing, as he said, a charade, which a friend of his had addressed to a young lady, the object of his admiration, but which, from his manner, Emma was immediately convinced must be his own.
然而第二天就产生了一些灵感的证据。他叫了一会儿，只是为了在桌子上留下一张纸，正如他所说，里面有一个字谜游戏，这是他的一个朋友对一位年轻女士说的，她是他钦佩的对象，但从他的态度来看，这是一个谜语。 ，艾玛立即确信一定是他自己的。

‘I do not offer it for Miss Smith’s collection,’ said he. ‘Being my friend’s, I have no right to expose it in any degree to the public eye, but perhaps you may not dislike looking at it.’
“我不会为史密斯小姐的收藏提供它，”他说。 “作为我朋友的，我没有权利将它以任何程度暴露在公众面前，但也许你不会不喜欢看它。”

The speech was more to Emma than to Harriet, which Emma could understand. There was deep consciousness about him, and he found it easier to meet her eye than her friend’s. He was gone the next moment:—after another moment’s pause,
这句话更多的是对艾玛说的，而不是对哈丽特说的，这一点艾玛能理解。他身上有深刻的意识，他发现与她的目光相交比与她的朋友的目光相视更容易。下一刻他就走了：——又停顿了一会儿，

‘Take it,’ said Emma, smiling, and pushing the paper towards Harriet—‘it is for you. Take your own.’
“拿着吧，”艾玛微笑着说，把纸推向哈丽特——“这是给你的。”拿你自己的吧。

But Harriet was in a tremor, and could not touch it; and Emma, never loth to be first, was obliged to examine it herself.
但哈丽特浑身发抖，无法触碰它。艾玛从来不甘心成为第一，她不得不亲自检查一下。

To Miss—
错过-

CHARADE.
猜谜游戏。

My first displays the wealth and pomp of kings,
我的第一张展示了国王的财富和盛况，

Lords of the earth! their luxury and ease.
大地之主们！他们的奢华和轻松。

Another view of man, my second brings,
我的第二个带来了对人的另一种看法，

Behold him there, the monarch of the seas!
看他，海洋之王！

But ah! united, what reverse we have!
但是啊！团结起来，我们有多么逆境啊！

Man’s boasted power and freedom, all are flown;
人所夸耀的力量和自由，全都飞走了；

Lord of the earth and sea, he bends a slave,
大地和海洋的主宰，他弯曲了一个奴隶，

And woman, lovely woman, reigns alone.
而女人，可爱的女人，独自统治。

Thy ready wit the word will soon supply,
你的机智很快就会提供，

May its approval beam in that soft eye!
愿那温柔的眼睛里闪烁着赞同的光芒！

She cast her eye over it, pondered, caught the meaning, read it through again to be quite certain, and quite mistress of the lines, and then passing it to Harriet, sat happily smiling, and saying to herself, while Harriet was puzzling over the paper in all the confusion of hope and dulness, ‘Very well, Mr. Elton, very well indeed. I have read worse charades. Courtship—a very good hint. I give you credit for it. This is feeling your way. This is saying very plainly— ‘Pray, Miss Smith, give me leave to pay my addresses to you. Approve my charade and my intentions in the same glance.’
她把目光投向它，沉思了一下，领会了其中的意思，又读了一遍，确信无疑，并且完全掌握了台词，然后把它递给哈丽特，开心地微笑着坐在那儿，自言自语地说，而哈丽特则在苦苦思索。带着希望和沉闷的混乱，报纸上写道：“很好，埃尔顿先生，确实很好。”我读过更糟糕的字谜游戏。求爱——一个很好的暗示。我相信你。这就是你的感觉。这句话的意思非常明确——‘史密斯小姐，请允许我向您支付地址。一目了然地批准我的字谜和我的意图。

May its approval beam in that soft eye!
愿那温柔的眼睛里闪烁着赞同的光芒！

Harriet exactly. Soft is the very word for her eye—of all epithets, the justest that could be given.
哈丽特正是如此。温柔这个词最能形容她的眼睛——在所有的形容词中，这是最公正的形容词。

Thy ready wit the word will soon supply.
你的机智很快就会提供。

Humph—Harriet’s ready wit! All the better. A man must be very much in love, indeed, to describe her so. Ah! Mr. Knightley, I wish you had the benefit of this; I think this would convince you. For once in your life you would be obliged to own yourself mistaken. An excellent charade indeed! and very much to the purpose. Things must come to a crisis soon now.’
哼——哈丽特已经准备好了！一切都更好了。确实，一个男人一定非常爱她，才能这样形容她。啊!奈特利先生，我希望您能从中受益；我想这会说服你。在你的一生中，你将不得不承认自己犯了错误。确实是一个出色的猜谜游戏！非常符合目的。现在事情肯定很快就会陷入危机。”

She was obliged to break off from these very pleasant observations, which were otherwise of a sort to run into great length, by the eagerness of Harriet’s wondering questions.
由于哈丽特急切地想问一些问题，她不得不中断这些令人愉快的观察，否则这些观察就会变得很长。

‘What can it be, Miss Woodhouse?—what can it be? I have not an idea—I cannot guess it in the least. What can it possibly be? Do try to find it out, Miss Woodhouse. Do help me. I never saw any thing so hard. Is it kingdom? I wonder who the friend was—and who could be the young lady. Do you think it is a good one? Can it be woman?
“这会是什么，伍德豪斯小姐？——这会是什么？”我不知道——我根本猜不出来。它可能是什么？请尝试找出答案，伍德豪斯小姐。帮帮我吧。我从未见过如此艰难的事情。是王国吗？我想知道那位朋友是谁——那位年轻女士又是谁。你认为这是一件好事吗？可以是女人吗？

And woman, lovely woman, reigns alone.
而女人，可爱的女人，独自统治。

Can it be Neptune?
可能是海王星吗？

Behold him there, the monarch of the seas!
看他，海洋之王！

Or a trident? or a mermaid? or a shark? Oh, no! shark is only one syllable. It must be very clever, or he would not have brought it. Oh! Miss Woodhouse, do you think we shall ever find it out?’
还是三叉戟？还是美人鱼？还是鲨鱼？不好了！鲨鱼只有一个音节。一定很聪明，不然他也不会带来。哦！伍德豪斯小姐，你认为我们能找到答案吗？

‘Mermaids and sharks! Nonsense! My dear Harriet, what are you thinking of? Where would be the use of his bringing us a charade made by a friend upon a mermaid or a shark? Give me the paper and listen.
“美人鱼和鲨鱼！废话！亲爱的哈丽特，你在想什么？他给我们带来朋友对美人鱼或鲨鱼的猜谜游戏有什么用呢？把纸给我听。

For Miss —————, read Miss Smith.
对于……小姐，请阅读史密斯小姐。

My first displays the wealth and pomp of kings,
我的第一张展示了国王的财富和盛况，

Lords of the earth! their luxury and ease.
大地之主们！他们的奢华和轻松。

That is court.
那是法庭。

Another view of man, my second brings;
我的第二个带来了对人的另一种看法；

Behold him there, the monarch of the seas!
看他，海洋之王！

That is ship;—plain as it can be.—Now for the cream.
这就是船；——尽管很简单。——现在轮到奶油了。

But ah! united, (courtship, you know,) what reverse we have!
但是啊！团结起来，（求爱，你知道，）我们有多么相反！

Man’s boasted power and freedom, all are flown.
人所夸耀的力量和自由，全都飞走了。

Lord of the earth and sea, he bends a slave,
大地和海洋的主宰，他弯曲了一个奴隶，

And woman, lovely woman, reigns alone.
而女人，可爱的女人，独自统治。

A very proper compliment!—and then follows the application, which I think, my dear Harriet, you cannot find much difficulty in comprehending. Read it in comfort to yourself. There can be no doubt of its being written for you and to you.’
非常恰当的赞美！——然后是应用程序，我想，我亲爱的哈丽特，你不会觉得理解有什么困难。让自己舒服地阅读它。毫无疑问，它是为你而写的。”

Harriet could not long resist so delightful a persuasion. She read the concluding lines, and was all flutter and happiness. She could not speak. But she was not wanted to speak. It was enough for her to feel. Emma spoke for her.
哈丽雅特无法长久抗拒如此令人愉快的说服。她读完最后几行，心里充满了激动和幸福。她无法说话。但她不想说话。对于她来说，这种感觉就足够了。艾玛为她说话。

‘There is so pointed, and so particular a meaning in this compliment,’ said she, ‘that I cannot have a doubt as to Mr. Elton’s intentions. You are his object— and you will soon receive the completest proof of it. I thought it must be so. I thought I could not be so deceived; but now, it is clear; the state of his mind is as clear and decided, as my wishes on the subject have been ever since I knew you. Yes, Harriet, just so long have I been wanting the very circumstance to happen what has happened. I could never tell whether an attachment between you and Mr. Elton were most desirable or most natural. Its probability and its eligibility have really so equalled each other! I am very happy. I congratulate you, my dear Harriet, with all my heart. This is an attachment which a woman may well feel pride in creating. This is a connexion which offers nothing but good. It will give you every thing that you want—consideration, independence, a proper home—it will fix you in the centre of all your real friends, close to Hartfield and to me, and confirm our intimacy for ever. This, Harriet, is an alliance which can never raise a blush in either of us.’
“这句恭维话的意义如此明确，如此特别，”她说，“我无法怀疑埃尔顿先生的意图。你就是他的目标——你很快就会收到最完整的证据。我想一定是这样。我以为我不会被这样欺骗；但现在，一切都清楚了；他的心态是清晰而坚定的，正如自从我认识你以来我对这个问题的愿望一样。是的，哈丽特，我一直希望这种情况发生已经发生的事情了。我永远无法判断你和埃尔顿先生之间的感情是最令人向往的还是最自然的。概率和资格真是不相上下啊！我很高兴。我衷心祝贺你，我亲爱的哈里特。女人很可能会为创造这种依恋而感到自豪。这种联系只会带来好处。它会给你想要的一切——体贴、独立、一个合适的家——它将把你固定在所有真正朋友的中心，靠近哈特菲尔德和我，并永远确认我们的亲密关系。哈丽特，这种联盟永远不会让我们任何一个人脸红。

‘Dear Miss Woodhouse!’—and ‘Dear Miss Woodhouse,’ was all that Harriet, with many tender embraces could articulate at first; but when they did arrive at something more like conversation, it was sufficiently clear to her friend that she saw, felt, anticipated, and remembered just as she ought. Mr. Elton’s superiority had very ample acknowledgment.
“亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐！”——还有“亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐”，这是哈丽特一开始能说出的全部内容，伴随着许多温柔的拥抱。但当他们确实进行了更像谈话的事情时，她的朋友很清楚，她所看到的、感觉到的、预期的和记住的都是她应该做的。埃尔顿先生的优越性得到了充分的认可。

‘Whatever you say is always right,’ cried Harriet, ‘and therefore I suppose, and believe, and hope it must be so; but otherwise I could not have imagined it. It is so much beyond any thing I deserve. Mr. Elton, who might marry any body! There cannot be two opinions about him. He is so very superior. Only think of those sweet verses—‘To Miss ————.’ Dear me, how clever!—Could it really be meant for me?’
“无论你说什么总是对的，”哈丽雅特喊道，“因此我认为，并且相信，并希望事情一定如此；但除此之外我无法想象。这远远超出了我应得的。埃尔顿先生，可能与任何人结婚！对他不能有两种看法。他是如此非常优越。想想那些甜蜜的诗句——“致小姐————。”亲爱的我，多聪明啊！——这真的是为我准备的吗？

‘I cannot make a question, or listen to a question about that. It is a certainty. Receive it on my judgment. It is a sort of prologue to the play, a motto to the chapter; and will be soon followed by matter-of-fact prose.’
“我无法提出问题，也无法聆听有关此事的问题。这是肯定的。根据我的判断接收它。这是该剧的序言，是这一章的座右铭。很快就会出现实事求是的散文。

‘It is a sort of thing which nobody could have expected. I am sure, a month ago, I had no more idea myself!—The strangest things do take place!’
‘这是一种没人能预料到的事情。我确信，一个月前，我已经完全不知道自己了！——最奇怪的事情确实发生了！

‘When Miss Smiths and Mr. Eltons get acquainted—they do indeed—and really it is strange; it is out of the common course that what is so evidently, so palpably desirable—what courts the pre-arrangement of other people, should so immediately shape itself into the proper form. You and Mr. Elton are by situation called together; you belong to one another by every circumstance of your respective homes. Your marrying will be equal to the match at Randalls. There does seem to be a something in the air of Hartfield which gives love exactly the right direction, and sends it into the very channel where it ought to flow.
“当史密斯小姐和埃尔顿先生认识时——他们确实认识了——这真的很奇怪；如此明显、明显令人向往的东西——那些吸引其他人预先安排的东西，竟然会立即将自己塑造成适当的形式，这是不寻常的。你和埃尔顿先生因情况而被召集在一起；你们在各自家里的每一种情况下都属于彼此。你们的婚姻将与兰德尔斯的婚姻平起平坐。哈特菲尔德的空气中似乎确实有一种东西，它给爱提供了正确的方向，并将其送入它应该流动的通道。

The course of true love never did run smooth—
真爱之路从来都不是一帆风顺的——

A Hartfield edition of Shakespeare would have a long note on that passage.’
哈特菲尔德版的莎士比亚会对这段话有很长的注释。

‘That Mr. Elton should really be in love with me,—me, of all people, who did not know him, to speak to him, at Michaelmas! And he, the very handsomest man that ever was, and a man that every body looks up to, quite like Mr. Knightley! His company so sought after, that every body says he need not eat a single meal by himself if he does not chuse it; that he has more invitations than there are days in the week. And so excellent in the Church! Miss Nash has put down all the texts he has ever preached from since he came to Highbury. Dear me! When I look back to the first time I saw him! How little did I think!— The two Abbots and I ran into the front room and peeped through the blind when we heard he was going by, and Miss Nash came and scolded us away, and staid to look through herself; however, she called me back presently, and let me look too, which was very good-natured. And how beautiful we thought he looked! He was arm-in-arm with Mr. Cole.’
“埃尔顿先生应该真的爱上我——我，在所有不认识他的人中，在米迦勒节和他说话！”而他，是有史以来最英俊的男人，也是每个人都尊敬的男人，就像奈特利先生一样！他的陪伴如此受追捧，以至于每个人都说，如果他不选择，他就不需要自己吃一顿饭。他收到的邀请比一周中的天数还要多。在教会里如此出色！纳什小姐写下了自从他来到海布里以来所传讲过的所有经文。亲爱的我！当我回想起第一次见到他的时候！我想得多么少啊！——当我们听说他经过时，两位院长和我跑进前屋，透过百叶窗往里看，纳什小姐走过来，把我们斥责走了，然后又停下来往里面看；但我没有想到。不过，她很快就给我回了电话，让我也看看，态度非常好。我们觉得他看起来多么漂亮啊！他和科尔先生手挽着手。

‘This is an alliance which, whoever—whatever your friends may be, must be agreeable to them, provided at least they have common sense; and we are not to be addressing our conduct to fools. If they are anxious to see you happily married, here is a man whose amiable character gives every assurance of it;—if they wish to have you settled in the same country and circle which they have chosen to place you in, here it will be accomplished; and if their only object is that you should, in the common phrase, be well married, here is the comfortable fortune, the respectable establishment, the rise in the world which must satisfy them.’
“这个联盟，无论你的朋友是谁，都必须得到他们的同意，只要他们至少有常识；我们不应该向傻瓜讲述我们的行为。如果他们渴望看到你幸福地结婚，那么这个男人的和蔼可亲的性格就足以保证这一点；如果他们希望你在他们选择的同一个国家和圈子里定居，那么这里就会是完成；如果他们唯一的目标是你应该，用通俗的话来说，是美满的婚姻，那么舒适的财富，受人尊敬的机构，世界的崛起一定会让他们满意。

‘Yes, very true. How nicely you talk; I love to hear you. You understand every thing. You and Mr. Elton are one as clever as the other. This charade!—If I had studied a twelvemonth, I could never have made any thing like it.’
是的，非常正确。你说话多么好听啊；我喜欢听你说。你明白一切。你和埃尔顿先生一样聪明。这个谜语！——如果我研究了十二个月，我永远也做不出类似的东西。

‘I thought he meant to try his skill, by his manner of declining it yesterday.’
“从他昨天拒绝的态度来看，我以为他是想试试自己的技术。”

‘I do think it is, without exception, the best charade I ever read.’
“我确实认为，毫无例外，这是我读过的最好的谜语游戏。”

‘I never read one more to the purpose, certainly.’
“当然，我再也没有读过一本这样的书。”

‘It is as long again as almost all we have had before.’
“这几乎又和我们以前经历过的一样长了。”

‘I do not consider its length as particularly in its favour. Such things in general cannot be too short.’
“我不认为它的长度特别有利。这样的事情一般来说不能太短。

Harriet was too intent on the lines to hear. The most satisfactory comparisons were rising in her mind.
哈丽特专心听台词，没听清。她的脑海中浮现出最令人满意的比较。

‘It is one thing,’ said she, presently—her cheeks in a glow—‘to have very good sense in a common way, like every body else, and if there is any thing to say, to sit down and write a letter, and say just what you must, in a short way; and another, to write verses and charades like this.’
“这是一回事，”她立即说道——她的脸颊泛着红光——“像其他人一样，以一种共同的方式有很好的判断力，如果有什么话要说，就坐下来写一封信，并用简短的方式说出你必须说的话；还有一个，写这样的诗句和字谜。

Emma could not have desired a more spirited rejection of Mr. Martin’s prose.
马丁先生的散文遭到艾玛最强烈的拒绝。

‘Such sweet lines!’ continued Harriet—‘these two last!—But how shall I ever be able to return the paper, or say I have found it out?—Oh! Miss Woodhouse, what can we do about that?’
“多么甜蜜的诗句！”哈丽特继续说道——“最后这两句！——但是我怎么能把报纸还回去，或者说我已经找到了呢？——哦！伍德豪斯小姐，我们能做些什么呢？

‘Leave it to me. You do nothing. He will be here this evening, I dare say, and then I will give it him back, and some nonsense or other will pass between us, and you shall not be committed.—Your soft eyes shall chuse their own time for beaming. Trust to me.’
'交给我。你什么也不做。我敢说，他今晚会在这里，然后我会把它还给他，我们之间会发生一些废话或其他事情，而你不会被承诺。——你温柔的眼睛会选择自己的时间来微笑。相信我。

‘Oh! Miss Woodhouse, what a pity that I must not write this beautiful charade into my book! I am sure I have not got one half so good.’
'哦！伍德豪斯小姐，可惜我不能把这个美丽的谜题写进我的书里！我确信我还没有得到这么好的一半。

‘Leave out the two last lines, and there is no reason why you should not write it into your book.’
“省略最后两行，你没有理由不把它写进你的书里。”

‘Oh! but those two lines are’—
'哦！但这两条线是’——

—‘The best of all. Granted;—for private enjoyment; and for private enjoyment keep them. They are not at all the less written you know, because you divide them. The couplet does not cease to be, nor does its meaning change. But take it away, and all appropriation ceases, and a very pretty gallant charade remains, fit for any collection. Depend upon it, he would not like to have his charade slighted, much better than his passion. A poet in love must be encouraged in both capacities, or neither. Give me the book, I will write it down, and then there can be no possible reflection on you.’
-'最好的。授予；——供私人享用；并保留它们供私人享用。你知道，它们的书写量一点也不少，因为你把它们分开了。这副对联并没有消失，它的意义也没有改变。但是把它拿走，所有的挪用都停止了，一个非常漂亮的勇敢的谜语仍然存在，适合任何收藏。相信吧，他不想让自己的伪装被轻视，这比他的激情要好得多。一个恋爱中的诗人必须在这两种能力上都受到鼓励，或者两者都不受到鼓励。把书给我，我把它写下来，这样你就不可能有任何反映了。”

Harriet submitted, though her mind could hardly separate the parts, so as to feel quite sure that her friend were not writing down a declaration of love. It seemed too precious an offering for any degree of publicity.
哈丽雅特屈服了，尽管她的大脑几乎无法将各个部分分开，以便非常确定她的朋友没有写下爱情宣言。对于任何程度的宣传来说，这似乎都太珍贵了。

‘I shall never let that book go out of my own hands,’ said she.
“我永远不会让那本书离开我自己的手，”她说。

‘Very well,’ replied Emma; ‘a most natural feeling; and the longer it lasts, the better I shall be pleased. But here is my father coming: you will not object to my reading the charade to him. It will be giving him so much pleasure! He loves any thing of the sort, and especially any thing that pays woman a compliment. He has the tenderest spirit of gallantry towards us all!— You must let me read it to him.’
“很好，”艾玛回答道。 “一种最自然的感觉；持续的时间越长，我就越高兴。但我父亲来了：你不会反对我给他读这个谜语。这会给他带来很多快乐！他喜欢任何此类事物，尤其是任何赞美女人的事物。他对我们所有人都表现出最温柔的殷勤精神！——你必须让我读给他听。

Harriet looked grave.
哈丽特表情严肃。

‘My dear Harriet, you must not refine too much upon this charade.—You will betray your feelings improperly, if you are too conscious and too quick, and appear to affix more meaning, or even quite all the meaning which may be affixed to it. Do not be overpowered by such a little tribute of admiration. If he had been anxious for secrecy, he would not have left the paper while I was by; but he rather pushed it towards me than towards you. Do not let us be too solemn on the business. He has encouragement enough to proceed, without our sighing out our souls over this charade.’
“我亲爱的哈丽特，你不能对这个谜语进行过多的改进。——如果你太有意识、太快，你就会不恰当地背叛你的感情，并且看起来附加了更多的含义，甚至是可能附加的所有含义。它。不要被这么一点点钦佩之情所淹没。如果他急于保守秘密，他就不会在我在旁边的时候把报纸留下来。但他宁愿把它推向我而不是推向你。不要让我们对事情太严肃。他有足够的鼓励来继续前进，而我们不必为这个谜语而叹息。

‘Oh! no—I hope I shall not be ridiculous about it. Do as you please.’
'哦！不——我希望我不会对此感到可笑。随你便吧。

Mr. Woodhouse came in, and very soon led to the subject again, by the recurrence of his very frequent inquiry of ‘Well, my dears, how does your book go on?—Have you got any thing fresh?’
伍德豪斯先生进来了，很快又回到了这个话题，他频繁地询问：“亲爱的，你们的书写得怎么样了？——你们有什么新鲜的东西吗？”

‘Yes, papa; we have something to read you, something quite fresh. A piece of paper was found on the table this morning—(dropt, we suppose, by a fairy)— containing a very pretty charade, and we have just copied it in.’
“是的，爸爸；我们有一些东西要读给你，一些很新鲜的东西。今天早上在桌子上发现了一张纸——（我们猜是仙女掉下来的）——里面有一个非常漂亮的字谜游戏，我们刚刚把它抄了进去。

She read it to him, just as he liked to have any thing read, slowly and distinctly, and two or three times over, with explanations of every part as she proceeded— and he was very much pleased, and, as she had foreseen, especially struck with the complimentary conclusion.
她读给他听，就像他喜欢读任何东西一样，慢慢地、清晰地读两三遍，并在她读下去的时候对每一部分进行解释——他非常高兴，而且，正如她所预见的那样，特别是对这个互补的结论感到震惊。

‘Aye, that’s very just, indeed, that’s very properly said. Very true. ‘Woman, lovely woman.’ It is such a pretty charade, my dear, that I can easily guess what fairy brought it.— Nobody could have written so prettily, but you, Emma.’
‘是啊，这话说得非常公正，确实，说得非常恰当。非常真实。 “女人，可爱的女人。”这是一个如此美丽的谜语，亲爱的，我可以很容易地猜出是什么仙女带来的。——没有人能写得这么漂亮，除了你，艾玛。

Emma only nodded, and smiled.—After a little thinking, and a very tender sigh, he added,
艾玛只是点点头，微笑着。——经过一番思考，轻轻地叹了口气，他补充道：

‘Ah! it is no difficulty to see who you take after! Your dear mother was so clever at all those things! If I had but her memory! But I can remember nothing;—not even that particular riddle which you have heard me mention; I can only recollect the first stanza; and there are several.
'啊！不难看出你追随谁！你亲爱的妈妈在这些事情上真是太聪明了！如果我有她的记忆就好了！但我什么都不记得了；——甚至连你听我提到过的那个特别的谜语也不记得了；我只记得第一节；有好几个。

Kitty, a fair but frozen maid,
基蒂，一个美丽但冰冷的女仆，

Kindled a flame I yet deplore,
点燃了我仍感到遗憾的火焰，

The hood-wink’d boy I called to aid,
我叫来帮忙的那个眨着眼的男孩，

Though of his near approach afraid,
尽管对他的接近感到害怕，

So fatal to my suit before.
以前对我的套装来说太致命了。

And that is all that I can recollect of it—but it is very clever all the way through. But I think, my dear, you said you had got it.’
这就是我能记得的全部内容——但它自始至终都非常聪明。但我想，亲爱的，你说过你已经得到了。

‘Yes, papa, it is written out in our second page. We copied it from the Elegant Extracts. It was Garrick’s, you know.’
“是的，爸爸，它写在我们的第二页上。我们从优雅摘录中复制了它。你知道，那是加里克的。

‘Aye, very true.—I wish I could recollect more of it.
“是的，非常正确。——我希望我能记得更多。”

Kitty, a fair but frozen maid.
基蒂，一个美丽但冰冷的女仆。

The name makes me think of poor Isabella; for she was very near being christened Catherine after her grandmama. I hope we shall have her here next week. Have you thought, my dear, where you shall put her—and what room there will be for the children?’
这个名字让我想起可怜的伊莎贝拉；因为她很快就要以她祖母的名字命名为凯瑟琳。我希望她下周能来这里。亲爱的，你有没有想过要把她放在哪里——还有哪个房间可以给孩子们？

‘Oh! yes—she will have her own room, of course; the room she always has;—and there is the nursery for the children,—just as usual, you know. Why should there be any change?’
'哦！是的——当然，她会有自己的房间；她一直拥有的房间；——还有孩子们的托儿所，——就像平常一样，你知道。为什么要有任何改变？

‘I do not know, my dear—but it is so long since she was here!—not since last Easter, and then only for a few days.—Mr. John Knightley’s being a lawyer is very inconvenient.—Poor Isabella!—she is sadly taken away from us all!—and how sorry she will be when she comes, not to see Miss Taylor here!’
“我不知道，亲爱的——但她已经很久没有来过这里了！——从去年复活节起就没有了，然后才几天。——先生。约翰·奈特利成为一名律师非常不方便。——可怜的伊莎贝拉！——她被悲伤地从我们大家身边带走了！——当她来的时候，没有在这里见到泰勒小姐，她会感到多么遗憾！

‘She will not be surprized, papa, at least.’
“至少她不会感到惊讶，爸爸。”

‘I do not know, my dear. I am sure I was very much surprized when I first heard she was going to be married.’
“我不知道，亲爱的。我确信当我第一次听说她要结婚时我感到非常惊讶。

‘We must ask Mr. and Mrs. Weston to dine with us, while Isabella is here.’
“伊莎贝拉在这里的时候，我们必须请韦斯顿先生和夫人和我们一起吃饭。”

‘Yes, my dear, if there is time.—But—(in a very depressed tone)—she is coming for only one week. There will not be time for any thing.’
“是的，亲爱的，如果有时间的话。——但是——（以非常沮丧的语气）——她只来一周。没有时间做任何事情。

‘It is unfortunate that they cannot stay longer—but it seems a case of necessity. Mr. John Knightley must be in town again on the 28th, and we ought to be thankful, papa, that we are to have the whole of the time they can give to the country, that two or three days are not to be taken out for the Abbey. Mr. Knightley promises to give up his claim this Christmas— though you know it is longer since they were with him, than with us.’
“不幸的是，他们不能停留更长时间——但这似乎是必要的情况。约翰·奈特利先生必须在 28 日再次进城，爸爸，我们应该庆幸，我们将拥有他们可以为国家奉献的全部时间，不能抽出两三天的时间为了修道院。奈特利先生承诺今年圣诞节放弃他的主张——尽管你知道他们和他在一起的时间比和我们在一起的时间还要长。

‘It would be very hard, indeed, my dear, if poor Isabella were to be anywhere but at Hartfield.’
“亲爱的，如果可怜的伊莎贝拉不在哈特菲尔德以外的任何地方，那确实会很难受。”

Mr. Woodhouse could never allow for Mr. Knightley’s claims on his brother, or any body’s claims on Isabella, except his own. He sat musing a little while, and then said,
伍德豪斯先生永远不会允许奈特利先生对他的兄弟提出要求，或者任何人对伊莎贝拉提出要求，除了他自己。他坐在那里沉思了一会儿，然后说道：

‘But I do not see why poor Isabella should be obliged to go back so soon, though he does. I think, Emma, I shall try and persuade her to stay longer with us. She and the children might stay very well.’
“但我不明白为什么可怜的伊莎贝拉必须这么快回去，尽管他确实这么做了。我想，艾玛，我应该尽力说服她在我们这里多呆一会儿。她和孩子们可能会过得很好。

‘Ah! papa—that is what you never have been able to accomplish, and I do not think you ever will. Isabella cannot bear to stay behind her husband.’
'啊！爸爸——这是你从未能够完成的事情，我认为你永远也无法完成。伊莎贝拉无法忍受留在丈夫身后。”

This was too true for contradiction. Unwelcome as it was, Mr. Woodhouse could only give a submissive sigh; and as Emma saw his spirits affected by the idea of his daughter’s attachment to her husband, she immediately led to such a branch of the subject as must raise them.
这实在是太正确了，根本不存在矛盾。尽管伍德豪斯先生不受欢迎，但他只能顺从地叹了口气。当艾玛看到他的精神受到女儿对丈夫的依恋的影响时，她立即引出了这个话题的一个分支，必须引起他们的注意。

‘Harriet must give us as much of her company as she can while my brother and sister are here. I am sure she will be pleased with the children. We are very proud of the children, are not we, papa? I wonder which she will think the handsomest, Henry or John?’
“当我的兄弟姐妹在这里时，哈丽特必须尽可能多地陪伴我们。我相信她会对孩子们感到满意。我们为孩子们感到非常自豪，不是吗，爸爸？我想知道她会认为亨利和约翰哪一个最英俊？

‘Aye, I wonder which she will. Poor little dears, how glad they will be to come. They are very fond of being at Hartfield, Harriet.’
是的，我想知道她会怎样。可怜的小宝贝们，他们会多么高兴能来。他们非常喜欢在哈特菲尔德，哈丽特。”

‘I dare say they are, sir. I am sure I do not know who is not.’
“我敢说是的，先生。我确信我不知道谁不是。

‘Henry is a fine boy, but John is very like his mama. Henry is the eldest, he was named after me, not after his father. John, the second, is named after his father. Some people are surprized, I believe, that the eldest was not, but Isabella would have him called Henry, which I thought very pretty of her. And he is a very clever boy, indeed. They are all remarkably clever; and they have so many pretty ways. They will come and stand by my chair, and say, ‘Grandpapa, can you give me a bit of string?’ and once Henry asked me for a knife, but I told him knives were only made for grandpapas. I think their father is too rough with them very often.’
“亨利是个好孩子，但约翰很像他的妈妈。亨利是老大，他是以我的名字命名的，而不是以他父亲的名字命名的。第二个约翰是以他父亲的名字命名的。我相信，有些人会感到惊讶，大儿子不是，但伊莎贝拉会让他叫亨利，我觉得她很漂亮。他确实是一个非常聪明的男孩。他们都非常聪明；他们有很多漂亮的方法。他们会过来站在我的椅子旁，说：“爷爷，你能给我一些绳子吗？”有一次亨利向我要一把刀，但我告诉他刀是专为爷爷制作的。我认为他们的父亲经常对他们太粗暴了。”

‘He appears rough to you,’ said Emma, ‘because you are so very gentle yourself; but if you could compare him with other papas, you would not think him rough. He wishes his boys to be active and hardy; and if they misbehave, can give them a sharp word now and then; but he is an affectionate father—certainly Mr. John Knightley is an affectionate father. The children are all fond of him.’
“他在你看来很粗暴，”艾玛说，“因为你自己非常温柔；但如果你把他和其他爸爸相比，你就不会认为他粗鲁了。他希望他的孩子们积极主动、吃苦耐劳；如果他们行为不端，可以时不时地严厉批评他们；但他是一位慈爱的父亲——约翰·奈特利先生无疑是一位慈爱的父亲。孩子们都很喜欢他。

‘And then their uncle comes in, and tosses them up to the ceiling in a very frightful way!’
“然后他们的叔叔进来了，以一种非常可怕的方式把他们扔到了天花板上！”

‘But they like it, papa; there is nothing they like so much. It is such enjoyment to them, that if their uncle did not lay down the rule of their taking turns, whichever began would never give way to the other.’
“但是他们喜欢这样，爸爸；没有什么比他们更喜欢的了。这对他们来说是一种享受，如果他们的叔叔没有制定轮流的规则，无论谁开始，都永远不会让位于另一个。

‘Well, I cannot understand it.’
“嗯，我无法理解。”

‘That is the case with us all, papa. One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other.’
“我们所有人都是如此，爸爸。世界的一半无法理解另一半的快乐。”

Later in the morning, and just as the girls were going to separate in preparation for the regular four o’clock dinner, the hero of this inimitable charade walked in again. Harriet turned away; but Emma could receive him with the usual smile, and her quick eye soon discerned in his the consciousness of having made a push—of having thrown a die; and she imagined he was come to see how it might turn up. His ostensible reason, however, was to ask whether Mr. Woodhouse’s party could be made up in the evening without him, or whether he should be in the smallest degree necessary at Hartfield. If he were, every thing else must give way; but otherwise his friend Cole had been saying so much about his dining with him—had made such a point of it, that he had promised him conditionally to come.
早上晚些时候，正当女孩们准备分开准备四点钟的常规晚餐时，这场独特的​​猜谜游戏的英雄再次走进来。哈丽特转过身去。但艾玛仍以平常的微笑接待了他，她敏锐的目光很快就在他身上看出了他已经按下了按钮——扔了一个骰子；但他没有意识到。她想象他是来看看事情会如何发展。然而，他表面上的理由是想问，伍德豪斯先生的聚会是否可以在没有他的情况下在晚上举行，或者他是否应该在哈特菲尔德尽可能少地出现。如果他是，那么其他一切都必须让位；但除此之外，他的朋友科尔一直在谈论他和他一起吃饭的事，而且还特别强调这一点，以至于他答应他有条件地来。

Emma thanked him, but could not allow of his disappointing his friend on their account; her father was sure of his rubber. He re-urged —she re-declined; and he seemed then about to make his bow, when taking the paper from the table, she returned it—
艾玛感谢他，但不能允许他因为他们的缘故而让他的朋友失望。她父亲对他的橡胶很有信心。他再次催促——她再次拒绝；他似乎正要鞠躬，当她从桌上拿起纸时，她又把它还了——

‘Oh! here is the charade you were so obliging as to leave with us; thank you for the sight of it. We admired it so much, that I have ventured to write it into Miss Smith’s collection. Your friend will not take it amiss I hope. Of course I have not transcribed beyond the first eight lines.’
'哦！这就是你慷慨地留给我们的谜语；谢谢你看到它。我们非常欣赏它，以至于我冒险将它写入史密斯小姐的收藏中。我希望你的朋友不会觉得奇怪。当然，我没有抄写超过前八行的内容。”

Mr. Elton certainly did not very well know what to say. He looked rather doubtingly—rather confused; said something about ‘honour,’—glanced at Emma and at Harriet, and then seeing the book open on the table, took it up, and examined it very attentively. With the view of passing off an awkward moment, Emma smilingly said,
埃尔顿先生当然不太知道该说什么。他看起来相当怀疑——相当困惑；说了一些关于“荣誉”的话——看了一眼艾玛和哈丽特，然后看到桌子上打开的书，拿起它，非常仔细地检查它。为了度过尴尬的时刻，艾玛微笑着说道：

‘You must make my apologies to your friend; but so good a charade must not be confined to one or two. He may be sure of every woman’s approbation while he writes with such gallantry.’
“你必须向你的朋友道歉；但如此好的字谜游戏绝不能仅限于一两个人。当他如此慷慨地写作时，他可能会得到每个女人的认可。

‘I have no hesitation in saying,’ replied Mr. Elton, though hesitating a good deal while he spoke; ‘I have no hesitation in saying—at least if my friend feels at all as I do—I have not the smallest doubt that, could he see his little effusion honoured as I see it, (looking at the book again, and replacing it on the table), he would consider it as the proudest moment of his life.’
“我会毫不犹豫地说，”埃尔顿先生回答道，尽管他说话时犹豫了很多。 “我毫不犹豫地说——至少如果我的朋友和我有同样的感觉的话——我毫不怀疑，他能否像我一样看到他那小小的流露受到尊重，（再次看这本书，然后把它放回原处）放在桌子上），他认为这是他一生中最自豪的时刻。

After this speech he was gone as soon as possible. Emma could not think it too soon; for with all his good and agreeable qualities, there was a sort of parade in his speeches which was very apt to incline her to laugh. She ran away to indulge the inclination, leaving the tender and the sublime of pleasure to Harriet’s share.
说完这句话后，他就尽快离开了。艾玛不能想得太早。因为尽管他有着良好的和令人愉快的品质，但他的演讲中有一种很容易让她发笑的炫耀。她逃跑了，去放纵自己的欲望，把温柔而崇高的快乐留给了哈丽特。

Chapter X
第十章

Though now the middle of December, there had yet been no weather to prevent the young ladies from tolerably regular exercise; and on the morrow, Emma had a charitable visit to pay to a poor sick family, who lived a little way out of Highbury.
虽然现在已是十二月中旬，但天气并没有妨碍小姐姐们进行还算正常的锻炼。第二天，艾玛对住在离海布里不远的一个贫困患病家庭进行了慈善拜访。

Their road to this detached cottage was down Vicarage Lane, a lane leading at right angles from the broad, though irregular, main street of the place; and, as may be inferred, containing the blessed abode of Mr. Elton. A few inferior dwellings were first to be passed, and then, about a quarter of a mile down the lane rose the Vicarage, an old and not very good house, almost as close to the road as it could be. It had no advantage of situation; but had been very much smartened up by the present proprietor; and, such as it was, there could be no possibility of the two friends passing it without a slackened pace and observing eyes.—Emma’s remark was—
他们通往这座独立小屋的路是沿着牧师巷，这条巷子与这个地方宽阔但不规则的主街成直角。并且，正如可以推断的那样，其中包含埃尔顿先生的幸福住所。首先经过的是一些低劣的住宅，然后，沿着小巷大约四分之一英里，矗立着牧师住宅，这是一栋旧的、不太好的房子，几乎尽可能靠近道路。它没有任何优势；但被现在的主人弄得非常聪明。无论如何，如果不放慢脚步并用观察的目光，这两个朋友就不可能通过它。——艾玛的评论是——

‘There it is. There go you and your riddle-book one of these days.’— Harriet’s was—
‘就是这样。有一天，你和你的谜语书就这样走了。”——哈丽特的——

‘Oh, what a sweet house!—How very beautiful!—There are the yellow curtains that Miss Nash admires so much.’
“哦，多可爱的房子啊！——多漂亮啊！——还有纳什小姐非常欣赏的黄色窗帘。”

‘I do not often walk this way now,’ said Emma, as they proceeded, ‘but then there will be an inducement, and I shall gradually get intimately acquainted with all the hedges, gates, pools and pollards of this part of Highbury.’
“我现在不常走这条路了，”他们继续前行时，艾玛说道，“但之后就会有一种诱因，我会逐渐熟悉海布里这一带的所有树篱、大门、水池和围墙。 '

Harriet, she found, had never in her life been within side the Vicarage, and her curiosity to see it was so extreme, that, considering exteriors and probabilities, Emma could only class it, as a proof of love, with Mr. Elton’s seeing ready wit in her.
她发现，哈丽特一生中从未去过牧师住宅，而她对参观它的好奇心是如此之大，以至于考虑到外观和可能性，艾玛只能将其归类为爱的证明，埃尔顿先生看到了她已经准备好了智慧。

‘I wish we could contrive it,’ said she; ‘but I cannot think of any tolerable pretence for going in;—no servant that I want to inquire about of his housekeeper—no message from my father.’
“我希望我们能想出办法，”她说。 “但我想不出有什么可以容忍的借口进去；——我不想向仆人打听他管家的情况——没有我父亲的消息。”

She pondered, but could think of nothing. After a mutual silence of some minutes, Harriet thus began again—
她想了想，却想不出什么来。双方沉默了几分钟后，哈丽特又开始——

‘I do so wonder, Miss Woodhouse, that you should not be married, or going to be married! so charming as you are!’—
“伍德豪斯小姐，我真的很奇怪，你不应该结婚，或者不应该结婚！”像你一样迷人！’——

Emma laughed, and replied,
艾玛笑了，回答道：

‘My being charming, Harriet, is not quite enough to induce me to marry; I must find other people charming—one other person at least. And I am not only, not going to be married, at present, but have very little intention of ever marrying at all.’
“哈丽特，我的魅力不足以促使我结婚；我必须发现其他人很有魅力——至少是其他人。我目前不仅不打算结婚，而且根本没有结婚的打算。

‘Ah!—so you say; but I cannot believe it.’
‘啊！——你这么说；但我不敢相信。

‘I must see somebody very superior to any one I have seen yet, to be tempted; Mr. Elton, you know, (recollecting herself,) is out of the question: and I do not wish to see any such person. I would rather not be tempted. I cannot really change for the better. If I were to marry, I must expect to repent it.’
“我必须看到一个比我所见过的任何人都更加优秀的人，才会受到诱惑；埃尔顿先生，你知道，（回想起来）是不可能的：我不想见到任何这样的人。我宁愿不被诱惑。我真的无法变得更好。如果我要结婚，我就必须做好后悔的准备。”

‘Dear me!—it is so odd to hear a woman talk so!’—
“天哪！——听到一个女人这么说话真是太奇怪了！”——

‘I have none of the usual inducements of women to marry. Were I to fall in love, indeed, it would be a different thing! but I never have been in love; it is not my way, or my nature; and I do not think I ever shall. And, without love, I am sure I should be a fool to change such a situation as mine. Fortune I do not want; employment I do not want; consequence I do not want: I believe few married women are half as much mistress of their husband’s house as I am of Hartfield; and never, never could I expect to be so truly beloved and important; so always first and always right in any man’s eyes as I am in my father’s.’
“我没有任何女性结婚的常见诱因。确实，如果我坠入爱河，那就是另外一回事了！但我从未恋爱过；这不是我的方式，也不是我的本性；我想我永远不会。而且，如果没有爱，我确信我会是一个傻瓜来改变我这样的情况。福气我不想要；我不想要的工作；我不想要的后果是：我相信很少有已婚妇女在丈夫家里的女主人数量能比我在哈特菲尔德的一半多。我从来、从来没有想过自己会受到如此真正的爱戴和重视；所以在任何人眼中我都是第一位的，永远是对的，就像我在我父亲眼中一样。”

‘But then, to be an old maid at last, like Miss Bates!’
“但是，最终还是成为了一位老处女，就像贝茨小姐一样！”

‘That is as formidable an image as you could present, Harriet; and if I thought I should ever be like Miss Bates! so silly—so satisfied— so smiling—so prosing—so undistinguishing and unfastidious— and so apt to tell every thing relative to every body about me, I would marry to-morrow. But between us, I am convinced there never can be any likeness, except in being unmarried.’
“这是你所能呈现的最令人敬畏的形象，哈丽特；如果我认为我应该像贝茨小姐一样！如此愚蠢——如此满足——如此微笑——如此平庸——如此平淡无奇，如此不挑剔——又如此轻易地告诉每个人关于我的一切，我明天就会结婚。但我相信我们之间永远不可能有任何相似之处，除非未婚。”

‘But still, you will be an old maid! and that’s so dreadful!’
“但是，你还是个老处女！”那太可怕了！

‘Never mind, Harriet, I shall not be a poor old maid; and it is poverty only which makes celibacy contemptible to a generous public! A single woman, with a very narrow income, must be a ridiculous, disagreeable old maid! the proper sport of boys and girls, but a single woman, of good fortune, is always respectable, and may be as sensible and pleasant as any body else. And the distinction is not quite so much against the candour and common sense of the world as appears at first; for a very narrow income has a tendency to contract the mind, and sour the temper. Those who can barely live, and who live perforce in a very small, and generally very inferior, society, may well be illiberal and cross. This does not apply, however, to Miss Bates; she is only too good natured and too silly to suit me; but, in general, she is very much to the taste of every body, though single and though poor. Poverty certainly has not contracted her mind: I really believe, if she had only a shilling in the world, she would be very likely to give away sixpence of it; and nobody is afraid of her: that is a great charm.’
“没关系，哈丽特，我不会成为一个可怜的老姑娘；只有贫穷才让慷慨的公众鄙视独身！一个单身女人，收入很微薄，一定是个可笑的、令人讨厌的老处女！男孩和女孩的正当运动，但单身女性，如果幸运的话，总是值得尊敬的，并且可能像其他人一样明智和令人愉快。这种区别并不像乍一看那样违背世界的坦率和常识。因为收入非常微薄，容易让人心智狭窄、脾气暴躁。那些几乎无法生存的人，以及那些被迫生活在一个非常小、通常非常低等的社会中的人，很可能是不自由和易怒的。然而，这不适用于贝茨小姐。她脾气太好，又太傻，不适合我。但总的来说，她非常适合所有人的口味，尽管单身而且贫穷。贫穷当然没有束缚她的心：我真的相信，如果她在世界上只有一先令，她很可能会捐出六便士；没有人害怕她：这是一个巨大的魅力。

‘Dear me! but what shall you do? how shall you employ yourself when you grow old?’
'亲爱的我！但你该怎么办呢？当你老了的时候，你将如何工作？

‘If I know myself, Harriet, mine is an active, busy mind, with a great many independent resources; and I do not perceive why I should be more in want of employment at forty or fifty than one-and-twenty. Woman’s usual occupations of hand and mind will be as open to me then as they are now; or with no important variation. If I draw less, I shall read more; if I give up music, I shall take to carpet-work. And as for objects of interest, objects for the affections, which is in truth the great point of inferiority, the want of which is really the great evil to be avoided in not marrying, I shall be very well off, with all the children of a sister I love so much, to care about. There will be enough of them, in all probability, to supply every sort of sensation that declining life can need. There will be enough for every hope and every fear; and though my attachment to none can equal that of a parent, it suits my ideas of comfort better than what is warmer and blinder. My nephews and nieces!—I shall often have a niece with me.’
“如果我了解我自己，哈里特，我的头脑是一个活跃、忙碌的头脑，拥有大量独立的资源；我不明白为什么我在四十岁或五十岁时比一二十岁时更需要工作。那时，女人的手和心的日常活动对我来说将像现在一样开放；或者没有重要的变化。如果我画得少，我就会读得更多；如果我放弃音乐，我就会从事地毯工作。至于感兴趣的对象，感情的对象，这实际上是最大的自卑点，缺乏这些实际上是不结婚所要避免的最大罪恶，我会和所有的孩子一样过得很好。一个我非常爱、非常关心的妹妹。它们很可能足够多，足以提供日渐衰弱的生命所需要的各种感觉。每一个希望和每一个恐惧都会有足够的东西；虽然我对任何人的依恋都无法与父母的依恋相提并论，但它比更温暖、更盲目的东西更适合我的舒适观念。我的侄子和侄女们！——我经常会有一个侄女和我在一起。

‘Do you know Miss Bates’s niece? That is, I know you must have seen her a hundred times—but are you acquainted?’
“你认识贝茨小姐的侄女吗？也就是说，我知道你一定见过她一百次了——但是你们认识吗？

‘Oh! yes; we are always forced to be acquainted whenever she comes to Highbury. By the bye, that is almost enough to put one out of conceit with a niece. Heaven forbid! at least, that I should ever bore people half so much about all the Knightleys together, as she does about Jane Fairfax. One is sick of the very name of Jane Fairfax. Every letter from her is read forty times over; her compliments to all friends go round and round again; and if she does but send her aunt the pattern of a stomacher, or knit a pair of garters for her grandmother, one hears of nothing else for a month. I wish Jane Fairfax very well; but she tires me to death.’
'哦！是的;每当她来到海布里，我们总是被迫认识。顺便说一句，这几乎足以让一个人对侄女失去自负。老天爷不允许！至少，我应该让人们对奈特利一家感到厌烦，就像她对简·费尔法克斯感到厌烦一样。人们厌倦了简·费尔法克斯这个名字。她的每封信都会被读四十遍；她对所有朋友的赞美一遍又一遍；如果她只是送她姨妈一件肚兜的图案，或者给她祖母织一条吊袜带，一个月之内就不会再有任何消息。我祝愿简·费尔法克斯一切顺利；但她累死我了。

They were now approaching the cottage, and all idle topics were superseded. Emma was very compassionate; and the distresses of the poor were as sure of relief from her personal attention and kindness, her counsel and her patience, as from her purse. She understood their ways, could allow for their ignorance and their temptations, had no romantic expectations of extraordinary virtue from those for whom education had done so little; entered into their troubles with ready sympathy, and always gave her assistance with as much intelligence as good-will. In the present instance, it was sickness and poverty together which she came to visit; and after remaining there as long as she could give comfort or advice, she quitted the cottage with such an impression of the scene as made her say to Harriet, as they walked away,
他们现在已经接近小屋了，所有闲聊的话题都被取代了。艾玛非常富有同情心；穷人的苦难肯定会因为她的个人关注和仁慈、她的建议和她的耐心而得到缓解，就像她的钱包一样。她理解他们的生活方式，能够容忍他们的无知和诱惑，对那些受过教育很少的人抱有非凡美德的浪漫期望；她以同情的态度介入他们的麻烦，并总是以同样多的智慧和善意给予她帮助。在目前的情况下，她来看望的是疾病和贫困。在那里待了很长一段时间，给予安慰或建议后，她离开了小屋，当时的情景让她在他们走开时对哈丽特说：

‘These are the sights, Harriet, to do one good. How trifling they make every thing else appear!—I feel now as if I could think of nothing but these poor creatures all the rest of the day; and yet, who can say how soon it may all vanish from my mind?’
“哈丽特，这些景象是有好处的。它们让其他一切显得多么微不足道！——我现在感觉好像我一整天都只想着这些可怜的生物；然而，谁能说要多久这一切就会从我的脑海中消失呢？

‘Very true,’ said Harriet. ‘Poor creatures! one can think of nothing else.’
“非常正确，”哈丽雅特说。 ‘可怜的生灵！人们无法想到其他任何事情。

‘And really, I do not think the impression will soon be over,’ said Emma, as she crossed the low hedge, and tottering footstep which ended the narrow, slippery path through the cottage garden, and brought them into the lane again. ‘I do not think it will,’ stopping to look once more at all the outward wretchedness of the place, and recall the still greater within.
“说实话，我不认为这种印象很快就会结束，”艾玛一边说，一边穿过低矮的树篱，摇摇晃晃的脚步声结束了穿过小屋花园的狭窄、湿滑的小路，把他们带回了小巷。 “我认为不会，”停下来再次审视这个地方所有外在的悲惨景象，并回忆起更伟大的内部。

‘Oh! dear, no,’ said her companion.
'哦！亲爱的，不，”她的同伴说。

They walked on. The lane made a slight bend; and when that bend was passed, Mr. Elton was immediately in sight; and so near as to give Emma time only to say farther,
他们继续前行。小路稍微拐了个弯；过了那个弯道，埃尔顿先生立刻就出现在了我们的眼前。距离如此之近，艾玛只得有时间再说更远的话，

‘Ah! Harriet, here comes a very sudden trial of our stability in good thoughts. Well, (smiling,) I hope it may be allowed that if compassion has produced exertion and relief to the sufferers, it has done all that is truly important. If we feel for the wretched, enough to do all we can for them, the rest is empty sympathy, only distressing to ourselves.’
'啊！哈丽特，我们的良好思想稳定性突然受到考验。好吧，（微笑）我希望可以允许这样的说法：如果慈悲给受苦者带来了努力和缓解，那么它就已经完成了所有真正重要的事情。如果我们对不幸的人有足够的同情心，足以为他们做一切，那么剩下的只是空洞的同情，只会让我们自己感到痛苦。”

Harriet could just answer, ‘Oh! dear, yes,’ before the gentleman joined them. The wants and sufferings of the poor family, however, were the first subject on meeting. He had been going to call on them. His visit he would now defer; but they had a very interesting parley about what could be done and should be done. Mr. Elton then turned back to accompany them.
哈丽特只能回答：‘哦！亲爱的，是的，”在这位绅士加入他们之前。然而，这个贫困家庭的需求和痛苦是会议的首要主题。他本来打算去拜访他们的。他现在将推迟访问。但他们就可以做什么和应该做什么进行了非常有趣的谈判。埃尔顿先生随后转身陪伴他们。

‘To fall in with each other on such an errand as this,’ thought Emma; ‘to meet in a charitable scheme; this will bring a great increase of love on each side. I should not wonder if it were to bring on the declaration. It must, if I were not here. I wish I were anywhere else.’
“为了这样的差事而结识，”艾玛想。 “在慈善计划中见面；这将使双方的爱大大增加。我不应该怀疑它是否会带来宣言。如果我不在这里，那一定是这样。我希望我在其他地方。

Anxious to separate herself from them as far as she could, she soon afterwards took possession of a narrow footpath, a little raised on one side of the lane, leaving them together in the main road. But she had not been there two minutes when she found that Harriet’s habits of dependence and imitation were bringing her up too, and that, in short, they would both be soon after her. This would not do; she immediately stopped, under pretence of having some alteration to make in the lacing of her half-boot, and stooping down in complete occupation of the footpath, begged them to have the goodness to walk on, and she would follow in half a minute. They did as they were desired; and by the time she judged it reasonable to have done with her boot, she had the comfort of farther delay in her power, being overtaken by a child from the cottage, setting out, according to orders, with her pitcher, to fetch broth from Hartfield. To walk by the side of this child, and talk to and question her, was the most natural thing in the world, or would have been the most natural, had she been acting just then without design; and by this means the others were still able to keep ahead, without any obligation of waiting for her. She gained on them, however, involuntarily: the child’s pace was quick, and theirs rather slow; and she was the more concerned at it, from their being evidently in a conversation which interested them. Mr. Elton was speaking with animation, Harriet listening with a very pleased attention; and Emma, having sent the child on, was beginning to think how she might draw back a little more, when they both looked around, and she was obliged to join them.
她急于尽可能地与他们分开，不久之后，她就占据了一条狭窄的人行道，小路的一侧有点高，把他们留在了主路上。但不到两分钟，她就发现哈丽特的依赖和模仿的习惯也在抚养她，简而言之，他们很快就会追随她。这是不行的；她立即​​停下来，假装要对半靴子的鞋带做一些改动，然后弯下腰，完全占据了人行道，恳求他们让他们继续走，半分钟后她就会跟上。他们按照自己的意愿行事；当她认为可以合理地处理她的靴子时，她感到安慰的是，她的力量进一步延迟了，被小屋里的一个孩子追上，按照命令，带着她的水罐，去取肉汤。哈特菲尔德。走在这个孩子的身边，与她交谈，向她提问，是世界上最自然的事情，或者说，如果她当时的行为没有刻意的话，这就是最自然的事情；但如果她当时的行为没有经过刻意安排的话，这就是最自然的事情了。这样一来，其他人就可以继续领先，而无需等待她。然而，她不由自主地超过了他们：孩子的步伐很快，而他们的步伐却很慢；她对此更加关心，因为他们显然正在进行一场令他们感兴趣的谈话。埃尔顿先生讲话充满活力，哈丽特则非常高兴地听着。艾玛送孩子上路后，正开始思考怎样才能退后一点，这时他们俩环顾四周，她不得不加入他们的行列。

Mr. Elton was still talking, still engaged in some interesting detail; and Emma experienced some disappointment when she found that he was only giving his fair companion an account of the yesterday’s party at his friend Cole’s, and that she was come in herself for the Stilton cheese, the north Wiltshire, the butter, the cellery, the beet-root, and all the dessert.
埃尔顿先生仍在说话，仍在讨论一些有趣的细节；当艾玛发现他只是向他美丽的同伴讲述昨天在他朋友科尔家举行的聚会时，艾玛感到有些失望，而她自己则是为了斯蒂尔顿奶酪、北威尔特郡、黄油、芹菜、甜菜根，还有所有的甜点。

‘This would soon have led to something better, of course,’ was her consoling reflection; ‘any thing interests between those who love; and any thing will serve as introduction to what is near the heart. If I could but have kept longer away!’
“当然，这很快就会带来更好的结果，”她安慰道。 ‘相爱的人之间任何事情都感兴趣；任何事物都可以作为接近内心的事物的介绍。如果我能离得更远一点就好了！

They now walked on together quietly, till within view of the vicarage pales, when a sudden resolution, of at least getting Harriet into the house, made her again find something very much amiss about her boot, and fall behind to arrange it once more. She then broke the lace off short, and dexterously throwing it into a ditch, was presently obliged to entreat them to stop, and acknowledged her inability to put herself to rights so as to be able to walk home in tolerable comfort.
他们现在静静地一起走着，直到牧师住宅的视野变得苍白，突然决定至少让哈丽特进屋，让她再次发现她的靴子有什么不对劲，并再次落后于整理它。然后她把鞋带折断，灵巧地把它扔进沟里，不久她不得不恳求他们停下来，并承认她无法让自己恢复正常，以便能够舒适地走回家。

‘Part of my lace is gone,’ said she, ‘and I do not know how I am to contrive. I really am a most troublesome companion to you both, but I hope I am not often so ill-equipped. Mr. Elton, I must beg leave to stop at your house, and ask your housekeeper for a bit of ribband or string, or any thing just to keep my boot on.’
“我的蕾丝有一部分不见了，”她说，“我不知道该怎么办。”我确实是你们俩最麻烦的同伴，但我希望我不会经常如此装备不足。埃尔顿先生，我必须请求允许在您家停留，并向您的管家要一些丝带或绳子，或者任何可以让我穿靴子的东西。

Mr. Elton looked all happiness at this proposition; and nothing could exceed his alertness and attention in conducting them into his house and endeavouring to make every thing appear to advantage. The room they were taken into was the one he chiefly occupied, and looking forwards; behind it was another with which it immediately communicated; the door between them was open, and Emma passed into it with the housekeeper to receive her assistance in the most comfortable manner. She was obliged to leave the door ajar as she found it; but she fully intended that Mr. Elton should close it. It was not closed, however, it still remained ajar; but by engaging the housekeeper in incessant conversation, she hoped to make it practicable for him to chuse his own subject in the adjoining room. For ten minutes she could hear nothing but herself. It could be protracted no longer. She was then obliged to be finished, and make her appearance.
埃尔顿先生对这个提议显得非常高兴。没有什么比他的警觉和注意力更能吸引他们进入他的房子，并努力让一切看起来都有利。他们被带进的房间是他主要居住的房间，他向前看。它的后面是另一个，它立即与之通信。他们之间的门开着，艾玛和管家一起走进去，以最舒适的方式接受她的帮助。当她发现门时，她不得不把门半开着。但她完全想让埃尔顿先生把它关上。然而门并没有关上，仍然半开着。但她希望通过与管家不断交谈，让他能够在隔壁房间选择自己的话题。整整十分钟，她除了自己什么也听不到。事情不能再拖下去了。然后她不得不完成任务并露面。

The lovers were standing together at one of the windows. It had a most favourable aspect; and, for half a minute, Emma felt the glory of having schemed successfully. But it would not do; he had not come to the point. He had been most agreeable, most delightful; he had told Harriet that he had seen them go by, and had purposely followed them; other little gallantries and allusions had been dropt, but nothing serious.
这对恋人一起站在一扇窗户前。它有一个最有利的方面；有半分钟的时间，艾玛感受到了阴谋成功的荣耀。但这是不行的；他还没有说到重点。他是最和蔼可亲、最令人愉快的。他告诉哈丽特，他看见他们经过，所以特意跟着他们。其他一些小小的献殷勤和暗示也被放弃了，但没有什么严重的。

‘Cautious, very cautious,’ thought Emma; ‘he advances inch by inch, and will hazard nothing till he believes himself secure.’
“小心，非常小心，”艾玛想。 “他一寸一寸地前进，在他相信自己安全之前，不会冒险。”

Still, however, though every thing had not been accomplished by her ingenious device, she could not but flatter herself that it had been the occasion of much present enjoyment to both, and must be leading them forward to the great event.
然而，尽管一切都不是通过她巧妙的设计来完成的，她还是忍不住自夸，这对双方来说都是一个非常愉快的时刻，而且一定会带领他们走向伟大的事件。

Chapter XI
第十一章

Mr. Elton must now be left to himself. It was no longer in Emma’s power to superintend his happiness or quicken his measures. The coming of her sister’s family was so very near at hand, that first in anticipation, and then in reality, it became henceforth her prime object of interest; and during the ten days of their stay at Hartfield it was not to be expected—she did not herself expect— that any thing beyond occasional, fortuitous assistance could be afforded by her to the lovers. They might advance rapidly if they would, however; they must advance somehow or other whether they would or no. She hardly wished to have more leisure for them. There are people, who the more you do for them, the less they will do for themselves.
现在必须让埃尔顿先生独自一人。艾玛不再有能力控制他的幸福或加快他的行动。她姐姐一家人的到来近在眼前，从最初的期待，到后来的现实，这一切从此成为她最感兴趣的对象。在他们在哈特菲尔德逗留的十天里，除了偶尔的、偶然的帮助之外，她不可能为这对恋人提供任何帮助——她自己也没有想到。然而，如果他们愿意的话，他们可能会迅速进步。无论他们愿意与否，他们都必须以某种方式前进。她几乎不希望有更多的闲暇时间留给他们。有些人，你为他们做的越多，他们为自己做的就越少。

Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley, from having been longer than usual absent from Surry, were exciting of course rather more than the usual interest. Till this year, every long vacation since their marriage had been divided between Hartfield and Donwell Abbey; but all the holidays of this autumn had been given to sea-bathing for the children, and it was therefore many months since they had been seen in a regular way by their Surry connexions, or seen at all by Mr. Woodhouse, who could not be induced to get so far as London, even for poor Isabella’s sake; and who consequently was now most nervously and apprehensively happy in forestalling this too short visit.
约翰·奈特利先生和夫人由于比平时缺席萨里的时间更长，当然比平时更令人兴奋。直到今年，他们结婚以来的每一次长假都是在哈特菲尔德和唐威尔修道院度过的。但是今年秋天的所有假期都被用来给孩子们洗海浴，因此，他们已经好几个月没有被萨里的亲戚定期见到了，或者伍德豪斯先生根本没有见过他们，而伍德豪斯先生根本无法见到他们。即使是为了可怜的伊莎贝拉，他们也被诱骗到伦敦；因此，他现在非常紧张和忧虑地高兴地提前阻止了这次短暂的访问。

He thought much of the evils of the journey for her, and not a little of the fatigues of his own horses and coachman who were to bring some of the party the last half of the way; but his alarms were needless; the sixteen miles being happily accomplished, and Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley, their five children, and a competent number of nursery-maids, all reaching Hartfield in safety. The bustle and joy of such an arrival, the many to be talked to, welcomed, encouraged, and variously dispersed and disposed of, produced a noise and confusion which his nerves could not have borne under any other cause, nor have endured much longer even for this; but the ways of Hartfield and the feelings of her father were so respected by Mrs. John Knightley, that in spite of maternal solicitude for the immediate enjoyment of her little ones, and for their having instantly all the liberty and attendance, all the eating and drinking, and sleeping and playing, which they could possibly wish for, without the smallest delay, the children were never allowed to be long a disturbance to him, either in themselves or in any restless attendance on them.
他为她考虑了很多旅途中的痛苦，也没有少考虑他自己的马匹和车夫的疲劳，他们要在后半程中运送一些人；但他的警报是不必要的；十六英里的路程愉快地完成了，约翰·奈特利夫妇、他们的五个孩子，以及数量充足的保姆，都安全到达了哈特菲尔德。这样的到来带来的喧闹和欢乐，许多人受到交谈、欢迎、鼓励，以及各种驱散和处置，产生了噪音和混乱，他的神经在任何其他原因下都无法忍受，甚至也无法忍受更长的时间。为了这;但约翰·奈特利夫人非常尊重哈特菲尔德的生活方式和她父亲的感情，尽管母亲关心她的孩子们立即享受，并立即拥有所有的自由和照顾，所有的饮食和生活喝酒、睡觉、玩耍，这些都是他们可能希望得到的，毫不拖延，但决不允许孩子们长时间地打扰他，无论是他们自己还是在任何不安的照料下。

Mrs. John Knightley was a pretty, elegant little woman, of gentle, quiet manners, and a disposition remarkably amiable and affectionate; wrapt up in her family; a devoted wife, a doating mother, and so tenderly attached to her father and sister that, but for these higher ties, a warmer love might have seemed impossible. She could never see a fault in any of them. She was not a woman of strong understanding or any quickness; and with this resemblance of her father, she inherited also much of his constitution; was delicate in her own health, over-careful of that of her children, had many fears and many nerves, and was as fond of her own Mr. Wingfield in town as her father could be of Mr. Perry. They were alike too, in a general benevolence of temper, and a strong habit of regard for every old acquaintance.
约翰·奈特利夫人是一位漂亮、优雅的小女人，举止温柔、安静，性情非常和蔼可亲、深情款款。沉浸在她的家庭中；她是一位忠诚的妻子，一位溺爱孩子的母亲，对父亲和姐姐又如此温柔地依恋，如果没有这些更高层次的联系，更温暖的爱似乎是不可能的。她从来都看不出他们有什么毛病。她不是一个理解力强、反应敏捷的女人。由于与她父亲相似，她也继承了他父亲的大部分体质。她自己的健康状况很脆弱，对孩子们的健康过于关心，有很多恐惧和紧张，她喜欢镇上自己的温菲尔德先生，就像她父亲喜欢佩里先生一样。他们也很相似，都有一种普遍的仁慈的脾气，并且都有尊重每一个老熟人的强烈习惯。

Mr. John Knightley was a tall, gentleman-like, and very clever man; rising in his profession, domestic, and respectable in his private character; but with reserved manners which prevented his being generally pleasing; and capable of being sometimes out of humour. He was not an ill-tempered man, not so often unreasonably cross as to deserve such a reproach; but his temper was not his great perfection; and, indeed, with such a worshipping wife, it was hardly possible that any natural defects in it should not be increased. The extreme sweetness of her temper must hurt his. He had all the clearness and quickness of mind which she wanted, and he could sometimes act an ungracious, or say a severe thing.
约翰·奈特利先生身材高大，很有绅士风度，而且非常聪明。在他的职业、家庭生活中不断进步，并且在他的个人品格上受到尊重；但他的举止却很保守，这使得他不太讨人喜欢。有时会变得不幽默。他并不是一个脾气暴躁的人，也不是经常无理取闹，以至于值得受到这样的责备。但他的脾气并不完美。事实上，有了这样一位令人崇拜的妻子，自然的缺陷几乎不可能不增加。她的脾气极其甜蜜，一定会伤害他的。他拥有她所需要的一切清晰和敏捷的头脑，但他有时会做出不礼貌的举动，或者说出严厉的话。

He was not a great favourite with his fair sister-in-law. Nothing wrong in him escaped her. She was quick in feeling the little injuries to Isabella, which Isabella never felt herself. Perhaps she might have passed over more had his manners been flattering to Isabella’s sister, but they were only those of a calmly kind brother and friend, without praise and without blindness; but hardly any degree of personal compliment could have made her regardless of that greatest fault of all in her eyes which he sometimes fell into, the want of respectful forbearance towards her father. There he had not always the patience that could have been wished. Mr. Woodhouse’s peculiarities and fidgetiness were sometimes provoking him to a rational remonstrance or sharp retort equally ill-bestowed. It did not often happen; for Mr. John Knightley had really a great regard for his father-in-law, and generally a strong sense of what was due to him; but it was too often for Emma’s charity, especially as there was all the pain of apprehension frequently to be endured, though the offence came not. The beginning, however, of every visit displayed none but the properest feelings, and this being of necessity so short might be hoped to pass away in unsullied cordiality. They had not been long seated and composed when Mr. Woodhouse, with a melancholy shake of the head and a sigh, called his daughter’s attention to the sad change at Hartfield since she had been there last.
他不太受他漂亮嫂子的喜爱。她没有漏掉他的任何毛病。她很快就感觉到了伊莎贝拉身上的小伤，而伊莎贝拉自己却从未有过这种感觉。如果他的举止讨好伊莎贝拉的妹妹，也许她可能会忽略更多，但他们只是平静善良的兄弟和朋友的举止，没有赞美，也没有盲目；但几乎没有任何程度的个人恭维可以使她无视她眼中最大的错误，他有时会陷入这种错误，即缺乏对她父亲的尊重和宽容。在那里，他并不总是拥有所希望的耐心。伍德豪斯先生的怪癖和烦躁有时会激起他理性的抗议或同样不恰当的尖锐反驳。这种事并不常发生。因为约翰·奈特利先生确实非常尊重他的岳父，并且总体上对他应得的东西有强烈的意识。但对于艾玛的仁慈来说，这种情况太常见了，尤其是尽管冒犯并没有发生，但经常要忍受忧虑带来的痛苦。然而，每次拜访的开始都表现出最恰当的感情，而这种短暂的短暂可能希望能在纯洁的真诚中结束。他们还没坐多久，镇静下来，伍德豪斯先生就忧郁地摇了摇头，叹了口气，提醒女儿注意自从她上次来哈特菲尔德以来发生的可悲的变化。

‘Ah, my dear,’ said he, ‘poor Miss Taylor—It is a grievous business.’
“啊，亲爱的，”他说，“可怜的泰勒小姐——这是一件令人悲痛的事情。”

‘Oh yes, sir,’ cried she with ready sympathy, ‘how you must miss her! And dear Emma, too!—What a dreadful loss to you both!— I have been so grieved for you.—I could not imagine how you could possibly do without her.—It is a sad change indeed.—But I hope she is pretty well, sir.’
“哦，是的，先生，”她满怀同情地喊道，“您一定很想念她！还有亲爱的艾玛！——对你们俩来说是多么可怕的损失啊！——我为你们感到非常悲伤。——我无法想象没有她你们会怎样。——这确实是一个悲伤的变化。——但我希望她很好，先生。”

‘Pretty well, my dear—I hope—pretty well.—I do not know but that the place agrees with her tolerably.’
“很好，亲爱的——我希望——很好。——我不知道，但这个地方还算适合她。”

Mr. John Knightley here asked Emma quietly whether there were any doubts of the air of Randalls.
约翰·奈特利先生在这里轻声询问艾玛，是否对兰德尔斯的空气有任何怀疑。

‘Oh! no—none in the least. I never saw Mrs. Weston better in my life— never looking so well. Papa is only speaking his own regret.’
'哦！不——一点也不。我一生中从未见过韦斯顿夫人比她更好——从来没有看上去这么好过。爸爸只是说出了他自己的遗憾。

‘Very much to the honour of both,’ was the handsome reply.
“非常荣幸，”他英俊的回答道。

‘And do you see her, sir, tolerably often?’ asked Isabella in the plaintive tone which just suited her father.
“先生，您经常见到她吗？”伊莎贝拉用适合她父亲的哀怨语气问道。

Mr. Woodhouse hesitated.—‘Not near so often, my dear, as I could wish.’
伍德豪斯先生犹豫了。——“亲爱的，我希望的不是那么频繁。”

‘Oh! papa, we have missed seeing them but one entire day since they married. Either in the morning or evening of every day, excepting one, have we seen either Mr. Weston or Mrs. Weston, and generally both, either at Randalls or here—and as you may suppose, Isabella, most frequently here. They are very, very kind in their visits. Mr. Weston is really as kind as herself. Papa, if you speak in that melancholy way, you will be giving Isabella a false idea of us all. Every body must be aware that Miss Taylor must be missed, but every body ought also to be assured that Mr. and Mrs. Weston do really prevent our missing her by any means to the extent we ourselves anticipated—which is the exact truth.’
'哦！爸爸，自从他们结婚以来，我们一整天都没有见到他们。每天早上或晚上，除了一次之外，我们都见过韦斯顿先生或韦斯顿夫人，而且一般都见过，要么在兰德尔斯，要么在这里——正如你可能想象的那样，伊莎贝拉最常在这里。他们的来访非常非常友善。韦斯顿先生真的和她一样善良。爸爸，如果你用那种忧郁的方式说话，你会让伊莎贝拉对我们所有人产生错误的认识。每个人都必须意识到，我们一定会想念泰勒小姐，但每个人也应该放心，韦斯顿先生和夫人确实会以任何方式阻止我们想念她，达到我们自己预期的程度——这是千真万确的事实。

‘Just as it should be,’ said Mr. John Knightley, ‘and just as I hoped it was from your letters. Her wish of shewing you attention could not be doubted, and his being a disengaged and social man makes it all easy. I have been always telling you, my love, that I had no idea of the change being so very material to Hartfield as you apprehended; and now you have Emma’s account, I hope you will be satisfied.’
“正如它应该的那样，”约翰·奈特利先生说，“正如我希望从你的信中看到的那样。”她想引起你注意的愿望是不容置疑的，而他是一个不爱交际的人，这让这一切变得很容易。我一直告诉你，亲爱的，我不知道这种变化对哈特菲尔德来说如此重要，就像你所理解的那样；现在你有了艾玛的账户，我希望你会满意。

‘Why, to be sure,’ said Mr. Woodhouse—‘yes, certainly—I cannot deny that Mrs. Weston, poor Mrs. Weston, does come and see us pretty often— but then—she is always obliged to go away again.’
“当然，”伍德豪斯先生说——“是的，当然——我不能否认韦斯顿夫人，可怜的韦斯顿夫人，确实经常来看我们——但是话又说回来——她总是不得不再次离开.'

‘It would be very hard upon Mr. Weston if she did not, papa.— You quite forget poor Mr. Weston.’
“如果她不这么做，韦斯顿先生就会很难过，爸爸。——你完全忘记了可怜的韦斯顿先生。”

‘I think, indeed,’ said John Knightley pleasantly, ‘that Mr. Weston has some little claim. You and I, Emma, will venture to take the part of the poor husband. I, being a husband, and you not being a wife, the claims of the man may very likely strike us with equal force. As for Isabella, she has been married long enough to see the convenience of putting all the Mr. Westons aside as much as she can.’
“我确实认为，”约翰·奈特利愉快地说，“韦斯顿先生有一些小小的主张。你和我，艾玛，将冒险扮演可怜的丈夫的角色。我作为丈夫，而你不是妻子，男人的主张很可能对我们产生同等的影响。至于伊莎贝拉，她已经结婚很久了，她已经看到了尽可能把所有韦斯顿先生放在一边的便利性。

‘Me, my love,’ cried his wife, hearing and understanding only in part.— ‘Are you talking about me?—I am sure nobody ought to be, or can be, a greater advocate for matrimony than I am; and if it had not been for the misery of her leaving Hartfield, I should never have thought of Miss Taylor but as the most fortunate woman in the world; and as to slighting Mr. Weston, that excellent Mr. Weston, I think there is nothing he does not deserve. I believe he is one of the very best-tempered men that ever existed. Excepting yourself and your brother, I do not know his equal for temper. I shall never forget his flying Henry’s kite for him that very windy day last Easter—and ever since his particular kindness last September twelvemonth in writing that note, at twelve o’clock at night, on purpose to assure me that there was no scarlet fever at Cobham, I have been convinced there could not be a more feeling heart nor a better man in existence.—If any body can deserve him, it must be Miss Taylor.’
“我，我的爱人，”他的妻子喊道，她只听到并理解了一部分。——“你在说我吗？——我确信没有人应该、也可以比我更拥护婚姻；如果不是因为泰勒小姐离开哈特菲尔德的痛苦，我绝不会想到泰勒小姐，而是世界上最幸运的女人。至于轻视韦斯顿先生，这位优秀的韦斯顿先生，我认为他没有什么不应该的。我相信他是有史以来脾气最好的人之一。除了你和你的兄弟之外，我不知道他的脾气能与他相媲美。我永远不会忘记去年复活节那天风很大的时候他为他放飞的亨利风筝——自从去年九月十二月晚上十二点他特意写下那张纸条以来，他故意向我保证没有猩红热在科巴姆，我深信世上再没有比他更感性的人了，也没有比他更好的人了。——如果有谁配得上他，那一定是泰勒小姐。

‘Where is the young man?’ said John Knightley. ‘Has he been here on this occasion—or has he not?’
“那个年轻人在哪儿？”约翰·奈特利问道。 “他这次来过这里吗？还是没有？”

‘He has not been here yet,’ replied Emma. ‘There was a strong expectation of his coming soon after the marriage, but it ended in nothing; and I have not heard him mentioned lately.’
“他还没来过这里，”艾玛回答道。 “婚后，人们对他的到来抱有强烈的期待，但最终没有结果；我最近没有听到有人提到他。

‘But you should tell them of the letter, my dear,’ said her father. ‘He wrote a letter to poor Mrs. Weston, to congratulate her, and a very proper, handsome letter it was. She shewed it to me. I thought it very well done of him indeed. Whether it was his own idea you know, one cannot tell. He is but young, and his uncle, perhaps—‘
“但是你应该把这封信告诉他们，亲爱的，”她父亲说。 “他给可怜的韦斯顿夫人写了一封信，向她表示祝贺，这是一封非常恰当、漂亮的信。她给我看了。我认为他确实做得很好。这是否是他自己的想法，你知道，人们无法判断。他还年轻，他的叔叔也许——”

‘My dear papa, he is three-and-twenty. You forget how time passes.’
“我亲爱的爸爸，他三岁二十岁了。你忘记了时间是如何流逝的。

‘Three-and-twenty!—is he indeed?—Well, I could not have thought it— and he was but two years old when he lost his poor mother! Well, time does fly indeed!—and my memory is very bad. However, it was an exceeding good, pretty letter, and gave Mr. and Mrs. Weston a great deal of pleasure. I remember it was written from Weymouth, and dated Sept. 28th—and began, ‘My dear Madam,’ but I forget how it went on; and it was signed ‘F. C. Weston Churchill.’— I remember that perfectly.’
“三岁和二十岁！——他确实是这样吗？——好吧，我不可能想到这一点——当他失去可怜的母亲时，他才两岁！嗯，时间确实过得真快！——而且我的记性很差。然而，这是一封非常好的、漂亮的信，给韦斯顿先生和夫人带来了极大的乐趣。我记得它是在韦茅斯写的，日期是 9 月 28 日——开头是“我亲爱的女士”，但我忘记了它是怎么写的；签名是‘F. C. 韦斯顿·丘吉尔。”——我记得很清楚。”

‘How very pleasing and proper of him!’ cried the good-hearted Mrs. John Knightley. ‘I have no doubt of his being a most amiable young man. But how sad it is that he should not live at home with his father! There is something so shocking in a child’s being taken away from his parents and natural home! I never could comprehend how Mr. Weston could part with him. To give up one’s child! I really never could think well of any body who proposed such a thing to any body else.’
“他真是令人愉快又得体啊！”好心的约翰·奈特利夫人喊道。 “我毫不怀疑他是一个最和蔼可亲的年轻人。但他不应该和父亲一起住在家里，这是多么可悲啊！一个孩子被带离父母和自然的家，真是令人震惊！我永远无法理解韦斯顿先生怎么会和他分开。竟然要放弃自己的孩子！我真的永远无法想象任何向其他人提出这样的事情的人。

‘Nobody ever did think well of the Churchills, I fancy,’ observed Mr. John Knightley coolly. ‘But you need not imagine Mr. Weston to have felt what you would feel in giving up Henry or John. Mr. Weston is rather an easy, cheerful-tempered man, than a man of strong feelings; he takes things as he finds them, and makes enjoyment of them somehow or other, depending, I suspect, much more upon what is called society for his comforts, that is, upon the power of eating and drinking, and playing whist with his neighbours five times a week, than upon family affection, or any thing that home affords.’
“我想，没有人对丘吉尔一家有好感，”约翰·奈特利先生冷静地评论道。 “但你不必想象韦斯顿先生会感受到你放弃亨利或约翰时的感受。韦斯顿先生是一个性格随和、性情开朗的人，而不是一个感情强烈的人。他按照他发现的东西来对待它们，并以某种方式享受它们，我怀疑，更多地依赖于所谓的社会的安慰，也就是说，依赖于吃喝的力量，以及与邻居玩惠斯特的力量每周五次，而不是依靠家庭感情或家庭所能提供的任何东西。

Emma could not like what bordered on a reflection on Mr. Weston, and had half a mind to take it up; but she struggled, and let it pass. She would keep the peace if possible; and there was something honourable and valuable in the strong domestic habits, the all-sufficiency of home to himself, whence resulted her brother’s disposition to look down on the common rate of social intercourse, and those to whom it was important.—It had a high claim to forbearance.
爱玛不喜欢这种近乎对韦斯顿先生的反思，所以半心半意地接受了。但她挣扎了一下，就让它过去了。如果可能的话，她会维持和平。强烈的家庭习惯和自给自足的家庭习惯是值得尊敬和有价值的，这导致了她哥哥的性格，看不起社会交往的普遍程度，以及那些对社交交往很重要的人。对宽容的高度要求。

Chapter XII
第十二章

Mr. Knightley was to dine with them—rather against the inclination of Mr. Woodhouse, who did not like that any one should share with him in Isabella’s first day. Emma’s sense of right however had decided it; and besides the consideration of what was due to each brother, she had particular pleasure, from the circumstance of the late disagreement between Mr. Knightley and herself, in procuring him the proper invitation.
奈特利先生要和他们一起吃饭——这违背了伍德豪斯先生的意愿，伍德豪斯先生不喜欢伊莎贝拉第一天与他一起吃饭。然而，艾玛的正义感决定了这一点。除了考虑每个兄弟的义务之外，鉴于最近奈特利先生和她自己之间的分歧，她特别高兴地为他争取了适当的邀请。

She hoped they might now become friends again. She thought it was time to make up. Making-up indeed would not do. She certainly had not been in the wrong, and he would never own that he had. Concession must be out of the question; but it was time to appear to forget that they had ever quarrelled; and she hoped it might rather assist the restoration of friendship, that when he came into the room she had one of the children with her—the youngest, a nice little girl about eight months old, who was now making her first visit to Hartfield, and very happy to be danced about in her aunt’s arms. It did assist; for though he began with grave looks and short questions, he was soon led on to talk of them all in the usual way, and to take the child out of her arms with all the unceremoniousness of perfect amity. Emma felt they were friends again; and the conviction giving her at first great satisfaction, and then a little sauciness, she could not help saying, as he was admiring the baby,
她希望他们现在可以再次成为朋友。她想，是时候和好了。化妆确实不行。她当然没有错，而他永远不会承认自己错了。决不能让步；但现在是时候忘记他们曾经吵过架了。她希望这可能有助于恢复友谊，当他走进房间时，她带着一个孩子——最小的一个，一个大约八个月大的漂亮小女孩，她现在第一次访问哈特菲尔德，很高兴能在姨妈的怀里跳舞。它确实有帮助；因为尽管他一开始表情严肃，问了一些简短的问题，但很快他就以平常的方式谈论了所有这些，并以完全友好的态度毫不客气地把孩子从她怀里抱了出来。艾玛觉得他们又成了朋友了。这种信念让她一开始感到非常满足，然后又有点傲慢，当他正在欣赏这个婴儿时，她忍不住说：

‘What a comfort it is, that we think alike about our nephews and nieces. As to men and women, our opinions are sometimes very different; but with regard to these children, I observe we never disagree.’
“我们对侄子侄女的看法是一样的，这真是令人欣慰。对于男人和女人，我们的看法有时会有很大不同；但对于这些孩子，我发现我们从来没有分歧。

‘If you were as much guided by nature in your estimate of men and women, and as little under the power of fancy and whim in your dealings with them, as you are where these children are concerned, we might always think alike.’
“如果你对男人和女人的评价同样受到自然的引导，而在与他们打交道时少受幻想和突发奇想的影响，就像你对待这些孩子一样，我们的想法可能总是一样的。”

‘To be sure—our discordancies must always arise from my being in the wrong.’
“可以肯定的是，我们之间的不和谐一定总是源于我的错误。”

‘Yes,’ said he, smiling—‘and reason good. I was sixteen years old when you were born.’
“是的，”他微笑着说——“而且理由很好。”你出生时我十六岁。

‘A material difference then,’ she replied—‘and no doubt you were much my superior in judgment at that period of our lives; but does not the lapse of one-and-twenty years bring our understandings a good deal nearer?’
“那么，这是一个实质性的区别，”她回答道，“毫无疑问，在我们生活的那个时期，你的判断力比我高得多；但是，在我们生活的那个阶段，你的判断力无疑比我高得多。”但一年又二十年的流逝，难道不是让我们的理解更加接近了吗？

‘Yes—a good deal nearer.’
“是的——更近了。”

‘But still, not near enough to give me a chance of being right, if we think differently.’
“但是，如果我们有不同的想法，那还不足以让我有机会是正确的。”

‘I have still the advantage of you by sixteen years’ experience, and by not being a pretty young woman and a spoiled child. Come, my dear Emma, let us be friends, and say no more about it. Tell your aunt, little Emma, that she ought to set you a better example than to be renewing old grievances, and that if she were not wrong before, she is now.’
“我仍然比你有十六年的经验，而且不是一个年轻漂亮的女人和一个被宠坏的孩子。”来吧，我亲爱的艾玛，让我们成为朋友，不要再多说什么了。告诉你的阿姨，小艾玛，她应该为你树立一个更好的榜样，而不是重蹈覆辙，如果她以前没有错，那么她现在就错了。

‘That’s true,’ she cried—‘very true. Little Emma, grow up a better woman than your aunt. Be infinitely cleverer and not half so conceited. Now, Mr. Knightley, a word or two more, and I have done. As far as good intentions went, we were both right, and I must say that no effects on my side of the argument have yet proved wrong. I only want to know that Mr. Martin is not very, very bitterly disappointed.’
“这是真的，”她喊道——“非常正确。”小艾玛，成长为一个比你阿姨更好的女人。变得更加聪明，而不是那么自负。现在，奈特利先生，再讲一两句话，我就讲完了。就善意而言，我们都是对的，而且我必须说，我这一方的论点还没有被证明是错误的。我只想知道马丁先生并没有非常非常失望。

‘A man cannot be more so,’ was his short, full answer.
“一个人不能更如此，”他简短而完整的回答。

‘Ah!—Indeed I am very sorry.—Come, shake hands with me.’
“啊！——真的很抱歉。——来，跟我握手。”

This had just taken place and with great cordiality, when John Knightley made his appearance, and ‘How d’ye do, George?’ and ‘John, how are you?’ succeeded in the true English style, burying under a calmness that seemed all but indifference, the real attachment which would have led either of them, if requisite, to do every thing for the good of the other.
这一切刚刚发生，约翰·奈特利非常热情地出现了，“你好吗，乔治？”和“约翰，你好吗？”成功地表现出了真正的英国风格，埋藏在一种看似平静的气氛中。除了冷漠之外，真正的依恋会导致他们中的任何一个，如果必要的话，做每一件事都是为了对方的利益。

The evening was quiet and conversable, as Mr. Woodhouse declined cards entirely for the sake of comfortable talk with his dear Isabella, and the little party made two natural divisions; on one side he and his daughter; on the other the two Mr. Knightleys; their subjects totally distinct, or very rarely mixing—and Emma only occasionally joining in one or the other.
整个晚上很安静，气氛很融洽，伍德豪斯先生拒绝打牌完全是为了与他亲爱的伊莎贝拉轻松交谈，这一小群人自然地分成了两个部分：一侧是他和他的女儿；另外两个是奈特利先生；他们的主题完全不同，或者很少混合——艾玛只是偶尔加入其中一个。

The brothers talked of their own concerns and pursuits, but principally of those of the elder, whose temper was by much the most communicative, and who was always the greater talker. As a magistrate, he had generally some point of law to consult John about, or, at least, some curious anecdote to give; and as a farmer, as keeping in hand the home-farm at Donwell, he had to tell what every field was to bear next year, and to give all such local information as could not fail of being interesting to a brother whose home it had equally been the longest part of his life, and whose attachments were strong. The plan of a drain, the change of a fence, the felling of a tree, and the destination of every acre for wheat, turnips, or spring corn, was entered into with as much equality of interest by John, as his cooler manners rendered possible; and if his willing brother ever left him any thing to inquire about, his inquiries even approached a tone of eagerness.
兄弟俩谈论着自己的担忧和追求，但主要是长辈的，长辈的脾气是最健谈的，而且总是更爱说话。作为一名地方法官，他通常有一些法律问题需要向约翰咨询，或者至少有一些奇怪的轶事可以提供。作为一名农民，在掌管唐韦尔的家庭农场时，他必须告诉明年每块田地的收成，并提供所有这些当地信息，这些信息对于他的家中的兄弟来说肯定会很有趣。同样是他一生中最长的一段时光，而且他的依恋也很强烈。排水沟的计划、栅栏的改变、树木的砍伐，以及每英亩土地的小麦、萝卜或春玉米的目的地，都是约翰以同样的兴趣参与的，正如他冷静的举止所表现出的那样可能的;如果他的哥哥愿意给他留下什么需要询问的事情，他的询问甚至接近于热切的语气。

While they were thus comfortably occupied, Mr. Woodhouse was enjoying a full flow of happy regrets and fearful affection with his daughter.
当他们如此舒适地度过的时候，伍德豪斯先生却对他的女儿充满了幸福的遗憾和可怕的感情。

‘My poor dear Isabella,’ said he, fondly taking her hand, and interrupting, for a few moments, her busy labours for some one of her five children—‘How long it is, how terribly long since you were here! And how tired you must be after your journey! You must go to bed early, my dear—and I recommend a little gruel to you before you go.—You and I will have a nice basin of gruel together. My dear Emma, suppose we all have a little gruel.’
“我可怜的伊莎贝拉，”他深情地握住她的手，打断了她为五个孩子中的一个忙活的片刻，说道，“你已经在这里很久了，多久了！”旅途结束后你一定很累吧！你必须早点睡觉，亲爱的——我建议你在走之前喝点稀粥。——你和我将一起喝一盆稀粥。我亲爱的艾玛，假设我们都喝一点稀粥。

Emma could not suppose any such thing, knowing as she did, that both the Mr. Knightleys were as unpersuadable on that article as herself;—and two basins only were ordered. After a little more discourse in praise of gruel, with some wondering at its not being taken every evening by every body, he proceeded to say, with an air of grave reflection,
艾玛无法想象这样的事情，因为她知道，奈特利先生和她自己一样，在这篇文章上都难以说服；——而且只订购了两个脸盆。在对粥进行了更多的赞扬之后，有些人对并非每个人每天晚上都喝粥感到惊讶，他接着说道，带着严肃的反思的神情，

‘It was an awkward business, my dear, your spending the autumn at South End instead of coming here. I never had much opinion of the sea air.’
“亲爱的，你在南区度过秋天而不是来这里，这真是一件尴尬的事情。我对海洋空气从来没有太多看法。

‘Mr. Wingfield most strenuously recommended it, sir—or we should not have gone. He recommended it for all the children, but particularly for the weakness in little Bella’s throat,— both sea air and bathing.’
'先生。温菲尔德极力推荐它，先生——否则我们就不应该去。他向所有的孩子推荐了这个方法，尤其是针对小贝拉喉咙无力的情况——无论是海洋空气还是沐浴。

‘Ah! my dear, but Perry had many doubts about the sea doing her any good; and as to myself, I have been long perfectly convinced, though perhaps I never told you so before, that the sea is very rarely of use to any body. I am sure it almost killed me once.’
'啊！亲爱的，但佩里很怀疑大海对她有什么好处；至于我自己，我长期以来一直完全相信，尽管也许我以前从未告诉过你，大海对任何人来说几乎没有用处。我确信它有一次差点杀了我。

‘Come, come,’ cried Emma, feeling this to be an unsafe subject, ‘I must beg you not to talk of the sea. It makes me envious and miserable;— I who have never seen it! South End is prohibited, if you please. My dear Isabella, I have not heard you make one inquiry about Mr. Perry yet; and he never forgets you.’
“来吧，来吧，”艾玛喊道，她觉得这是一个不安全的话题，“我必须求你不要谈论大海。让我羡慕又痛苦；——我这个没见过的人！如果您愿意的话，南端是禁止的。亲爱的伊莎贝拉，我还没有听到你对佩里先生进行过任何询问；他永远不会忘记你。

‘Oh! good Mr. Perry—how is he, sir?’
'哦！好佩里先生——他怎么样，先生？

‘Why, pretty well; but not quite well. Poor Perry is bilious, and he has not time to take care of himself—he tells me he has not time to take care of himself—which is very sad—but he is always wanted all round the country. I suppose there is not a man in such practice anywhere. But then there is not so clever a man any where.’
” “嗯，很好；但不太好。可怜的佩里脾气暴躁，他没有时间照顾自己——他告诉我他没有时间照顾自己——这非常令人难过——但全国各地总是通缉他。我想任何地方都没有人进行这样的实践。但无论在哪里，都没有这么聪明的人。”

‘And Mrs. Perry and the children, how are they? do the children grow? I have a great regard for Mr. Perry. I hope he will be calling soon. He will be so pleased to see my little ones.’
“佩里夫人和孩子们怎么样？他们怎么样？”孩子们长大了吗？我非常尊敬佩里先生。我希望他很快就会打电话来。他会很高兴看到我的孩子们。”

‘I hope he will be here to-morrow, for I have a question or two to ask him about myself of some consequence. And, my dear, whenever he comes, you had better let him look at little Bella’s throat.’
“我希望他明天能来，因为我有一两个关于我自己的重要问题要问他。而且，亲爱的，无论他什么时候来，你最好让他看看小贝拉的喉咙。

‘Oh! my dear sir, her throat is so much better that I have hardly any uneasiness about it. Either bathing has been of the greatest service to her, or else it is to be attributed to an excellent embrocation of Mr. Wingfield’s, which we have been applying at times ever since August.’
'哦！亲爱的先生，她的喉咙好多了，我几乎没有任何不安。要么洗澡对她有最大的帮助，要么这要归功于温菲尔德先生的出色涂抹，我们从八月份以来就一直在使用这种涂抹剂。

‘It is not very likely, my dear, that bathing should have been of use to her—and if I had known you were wanting an embrocation, I would have spoken to—
“亲爱的，洗澡对她来说不太可能有用——如果我知道你想要擦伤，我就会跟——

‘You seem to me to have forgotten Mrs. and Miss Bates,’ said Emma, ‘I have not heard one inquiry after them.’
“在我看来，你似乎已经忘记了贝茨夫人和贝茨小姐，”艾玛说，“在他们之后我没有听到任何询问。”

‘Oh! the good Bateses—I am quite ashamed of myself—but you mention them in most of your letters. I hope they are quite well. Good old Mrs. Bates—I will call upon her to-morrow, and take my children.—They are always so pleased to see my children.— And that excellent Miss Bates!—such thorough worthy people!— How are they, sir?’
'哦！善良的贝茨——我为自己感到羞愧——但你在大部分信中都提到了他们。我希望他们都很好。善良的老贝茨太太——明天我会去拜访她，并带上我的孩子们。——他们总是很高兴见到我的孩子们。——还有那位出色的贝茨小姐！——真是值得尊敬的人！——他们怎么样，先生？

‘Why, pretty well, my dear, upon the whole. But poor Mrs. Bates had a bad cold about a month ago.’
“嗯，总的来说，亲爱的，很好。但可怜的贝茨夫人大约一个月前得了重感冒。

‘How sorry I am! But colds were never so prevalent as they have been this autumn. Mr. Wingfield told me that he has never known them more general or heavy—except when it has been quite an influenza.’
‘我多么抱歉啊！但感冒从未像今年秋天那样普遍。温菲尔德先生告诉我，他从未见过如此普遍或严重的症状——除非是一场相当严重的流感。

‘That has been a good deal the case, my dear; but not to the degree you mention. Perry says that colds have been very general, but not so heavy as he has very often known them in November. Perry does not call it altogether a sickly season.’
“情况确实如此，亲爱的；但没有达到你提到的程度。佩里说，感冒很常见，但并不像他在 11 月份经常见到的那么严重。佩里并不认为这是一个病态的季节。

‘No, I do not know that Mr. Wingfield considers it very sickly except—
“不，我不知道温菲尔德先生认为这很病态，除了——

‘Ah! my poor dear child, the truth is, that in London it is always a sickly season. Nobody is healthy in London, nobody can be. It is a dreadful thing to have you forced to live there! so far off!— and the air so bad!’
'啊！我可怜的亲爱的孩子，事实是，在伦敦，这总是一个生病的季节。在伦敦，没有人是健康的，没有人可以健康。让你被迫住在那里是一件可怕的事情！这么远！——空气又这么差！”

‘No, indeed—we are not at all in a bad air. Our part of London is very superior to most others!—You must not confound us with London in general, my dear sir. The neighbourhood of Brunswick Square is very different from almost all the rest. We are so very airy! I should be unwilling, I own, to live in any other part of the town;— there is hardly any other that I could be satisfied to have my children in: but we are so remarkably airy!—Mr. Wingfield thinks the vicinity of Brunswick Square decidedly the most favourable as to air.’
“不，确实——我们的空气一点也不差。我们伦敦的这个地区比其他大多数地区都优越！——亲爱的先生，您一定不要把我们与整个伦敦混为一谈。布伦瑞克广场街区与几乎所有其他街区都非常不同。我们真是太有气势了！我承认，我应该不愿意住在城里的任何其他地方；——几乎没有任何其他地方能让我满意地让我的孩子们住在其中：但我们是如此的通风！——先生。温菲尔德认为布伦瑞克广场附近的空气无疑是最有利的。

‘Ah! my dear, it is not like Hartfield. You make the best of it— but after you have been a week at Hartfield, you are all of you different creatures; you do not look like the same. Now I cannot say, that I think you are any of you looking well at present.’
'啊！亲爱的，这不像哈特菲尔德。你充分利用了这一点——但在哈特菲尔德待了一周之后，你们就变成了不同的人；你看起来不一样。现在我不能说，我认为你们是目前看起来很好的人。”

‘I am sorry to hear you say so, sir; but I assure you, excepting those little nervous head-aches and palpitations which I am never entirely free from anywhere, I am quite well myself; and if the children were rather pale before they went to bed, it was only because they were a little more tired than usual, from their journey and the happiness of coming. I hope you will think better of their looks to-morrow; for I assure you Mr. Wingfield told me, that he did not believe he had ever sent us off altogether, in such good case. I trust, at least, that you do not think Mr. Knightley looking ill,’ turning her eyes with affectionate anxiety towards her husband.
“我很遗憾听到你这么说，先生；但我向你保证，除了我在任何地方都无法完全摆脱的那些小小的神经性头痛和心悸之外，我自己很好。如果孩子们在睡觉前脸色相当苍白，那只是因为他们比平常更累了，因为他们的旅程和到来的快乐。我希望你明天会对他们的外表有更好的看法；因为我向你保证，温菲尔德先生告诉我，他不相信在如此好的情况下他曾把我们完全送走。至少我相信你不认为奈特利先生看起来有病，”她带着深情的焦虑转向她的丈夫。

‘Middling, my dear; I cannot compliment you. I think Mr. John Knightley very far from looking well.’
“中等，亲爱的；我无法恭维你。我认为约翰·奈特利先生看起来不太好。

‘What is the matter, sir?—Did you speak to me?’ cried Mr. John Knightley, hearing his own name.
“怎么了，先生？——你跟我说话了吗？”约翰·奈特利先生听到自己的名字喊道。

‘I am sorry to find, my love, that my father does not think you looking well—but I hope it is only from being a little fatigued. I could have wished, however, as you know, that you had seen Mr. Wingfield before you left home.’
“我很遗憾地发现，亲爱的，我父亲认为你看起来不太好——但我希望这只是因为有点疲劳。然而，正如你所知，我本来希望你在离开家之前见过温菲尔德先生。

‘My dear Isabella,’—exclaimed he hastily—‘pray do not concern yourself about my looks. Be satisfied with doctoring and coddling yourself and the children, and let me look as I chuse.’
“我亲爱的伊莎贝拉，”他急忙喊道，“请不要担心我的外表。对自己和孩子们进行治疗和溺爱就满足了，让我看看我的选择。

‘I did not thoroughly understand what you were telling your brother,’ cried Emma, ‘about your friend Mr. Graham’s intending to have a bailiff from Scotland, to look after his new estate. What will it answer? Will not the old prejudice be too strong?’
“我不太明白你对你哥哥说的话，”艾玛喊道，“你的朋友格雷厄姆先生打算从苏格兰找一名法警来照看他的新庄园。它会回答什么？旧的偏见会不会太强烈了？

And she talked in this way so long and successfully that, when forced to give her attention again to her father and sister, she had nothing worse to hear than Isabella’s kind inquiry after Jane Fairfax; and Jane Fairfax, though no great favourite with her in general, she was at that moment very happy to assist in praising.
她用这种方式讲了很长时间，而且很成功，以至于当她被迫再次把注意力集中在她的父亲和妹妹身上时，没有什么比伊莎贝拉对简·费尔法克斯的善意询问更糟糕的了。还有简·费尔法克斯，尽管她总体上不太喜欢她，但她当时很乐意帮忙赞扬。

‘That sweet, amiable Jane Fairfax!’ said Mrs. John Knightley.— ‘It is so long since I have seen her, except now and then for a moment accidentally in town! What happiness it must be to her good old grandmother and excellent aunt, when she comes to visit them! I always regret excessively on dear Emma’s account that she cannot be more at Highbury; but now their daughter is married, I suppose Colonel and Mrs. Campbell will not be able to part with her at all. She would be such a delightful companion for Emma.’
“那个可爱、和蔼可亲的简·费尔法克斯！”约翰·奈特利夫人说道。当她来看望她那善良的老祖母和出色的姑妈时，她一定感到多么幸福啊！我总是对亲爱的艾玛感到非常遗憾，因为她在海布里不能再多了。但现在他们的女儿已经结婚了，我想坎贝尔上校和夫人将根本无法离开她。对于艾玛来说，她会是一个非常令人愉快的伴侣。

Mr. Woodhouse agreed to it all, but added,
伍德豪斯先生完全同意，但补充道，

‘Our little friend Harriet Smith, however, is just such another pretty kind of young person. You will like Harriet. Emma could not have a better companion than Harriet.’
“然而，我们的小朋友哈丽特·史密斯却是另一个漂亮的年轻人。你会喜欢哈丽特的。艾玛没有比哈丽特更好的伴侣了。

‘I am most happy to hear it—but only Jane Fairfax one knows to be so very accomplished and superior!—and exactly Emma’s age.’
“我很高兴听到这个消息——但只有简·费尔法克斯人才知道她如此有成就和卓越！——而且和艾玛的年龄一模一样。”

This topic was discussed very happily, and others succeeded of similar moment, and passed away with similar harmony; but the evening did not close without a little return of agitation. The gruel came and supplied a great deal to be said—much praise and many comments— undoubting decision of its wholesomeness for every constitution, and pretty severe Philippics upon the many houses where it was never met with tolerable;—but, unfortunately, among the failures which the daughter had to instance, the most recent, and therefore most prominent, was in her own cook at South End, a young woman hired for the time, who never had been able to understand what she meant by a basin of nice smooth gruel, thin, but not too thin. Often as she had wished for and ordered it, she had never been able to get any thing tolerable. Here was a dangerous opening.
这个话题讨论得很愉快，其他人也在类似的时刻成功，并在类似的和谐中结束；但当晚结束时，气氛又恢复了一点。稀粥来了，提供了很多值得说的东西——很多赞美和很多评论——毫无疑问，它对每一种体质来说都是有益的，而且对许多家庭来说，相当严厉的菲利普斯，在那里它从来没有遇到过可以忍受的地方；——但是，不幸的是，在女儿不得不举例的失败，最近的，因此也是最突出的，是她在南区自己的厨师，当时雇用的一位年轻女子，她从来都无法理解她所说的一盆光滑的水是什么意思。稀粥，稀，但不要太稀。很多时候，正如她所希望和订购的那样，她从来都无法得到任何可以忍受的东西。这是一个危险的缺口。

‘Ah!’ said Mr. Woodhouse, shaking his head and fixing his eyes on her with tender concern.—The ejaculation in Emma’s ear expressed, ‘Ah! there is no end of the sad consequences of your going to South End. It does not bear talking of.’ And for a little while she hoped he would not talk of it, and that a silent rumination might suffice to restore him to the relish of his own smooth gruel. After an interval of some minutes, however, he began with,
“啊！”伍德豪斯先生摇着头说道，目光温柔而关切地盯着她。——艾玛耳边的尖叫声表达了：“啊！你去南区的悲惨后果是无穷无尽的。它不值得谈论。”有一会儿，她希望他不要谈论这件事，默默的沉思可能足以让他重新品尝到他自己的光滑粥的滋味。然而，几分钟后，他开始说道：

‘I shall always be very sorry that you went to the sea this autumn, instead of coming here.’
“今年秋天你没有来这里，而是去了海边，我将永远感到非常遗憾。”

‘But why should you be sorry, sir?—I assure you, it did the children a great deal of good.’
“但是您为什么要感到抱歉呢，先生？——我向您保证，这对孩子们有很大好处。”

‘And, moreover, if you must go to the sea, it had better not have been to South End. South End is an unhealthy place. Perry was surprized to hear you had fixed upon South End.’
“而且，如果你必须去海边，最好不要去南端。南端是一个不健康的地方。佩里很惊讶地听说你已经看上了南区。

‘I know there is such an idea with many people, but indeed it is quite a mistake, sir.—We all had our health perfectly well there, never found the least inconvenience from the mud; and Mr. Wingfield says it is entirely a mistake to suppose the place unhealthy; and I am sure he may be depended on, for he thoroughly understands the nature of the air, and his own brother and family have been there repeatedly.’
“我知道很多人都有这样的想法，但事实上，这是一个很大的错误，先生。——我们在那里的健康状况都很好，从来没有因为泥泞而感到任何不便；温菲尔德先生说，认为这个地方不健康的想法完全是错误的。我确信他值得信赖，因为他完全了解空气的本质，而且他自己的兄弟和家人也曾多次去过那里。

‘You should have gone to Cromer, my dear, if you went anywhere.— Perry was a week at Cromer once, and he holds it to be the best of all the sea-bathing places. A fine open sea, he says, and very pure air. And, by what I understand, you might have had lodgings there quite away from the sea—a quarter of a mile off—very comfortable. You should have consulted Perry.’
“亲爱的，如果你去任何地方，你都应该去克罗默。——佩里曾经在克罗默呆过一周，他认为那里是所有海水浴场中最好的。他说，这是一片美丽的大海，空气也非常纯净。而且，据我了解，你可能在那里住宿，距离大海很远——四分之一英里——非常舒适。你应该咨询一下佩里。

‘But, my dear sir, the difference of the journey;—only consider how great it would have been.—An hundred miles, perhaps, instead of forty.’
“但是，亲爱的先生，旅程的差异；——只要想想它会有多伟大。——也许是一百英里，而不是四十英里。”

‘Ah! my dear, as Perry says, where health is at stake, nothing else should be considered; and if one is to travel, there is not much to chuse between forty miles and an hundred.—Better not move at all, better stay in London altogether than travel forty miles to get into a worse air. This is just what Perry said. It seemed to him a very ill-judged measure.’
'啊！亲爱的，正如佩里所说，当健康受到威胁时，就不应考虑其他任何事情；如果一个人要旅行，在四十英里和一百英里之间没有什么可选择的。——最好不要动，最好完全留在伦敦，而不是旅行四十英里进入更糟糕的空气。这正是佩里所说的。在他看来，这是一个非常错误的措施。

Emma’s attempts to stop her father had been vain; and when he had reached such a point as this, she could not wonder at her brother-in-law’s breaking out.
艾玛试图阻止她的父亲，但没有成功。当他达到这样的地步时，她对姐夫的爆发也就不足为奇了。

‘Mr. Perry,’ said he, in a voice of very strong displeasure, ‘would do as well to keep his opinion till it is asked for. Why does he make it any business of his, to wonder at what I do?— at my taking my family to one part of the coast or another?—I may be allowed, I hope, the use of my judgment as well as Mr. Perry.— I want his directions no more than his drugs.’ He paused— and growing cooler in a moment, added, with only sarcastic dryness, ‘If Mr. Perry can tell me how to convey a wife and five children a distance of an hundred and thirty miles with no greater expense or inconvenience than a distance of forty, I should be as willing to prefer Cromer to South End as he could himself.’
'先生。佩里，”他用非常不悦的语气说，“最好保留自己的意见，直到有人征求意见为止。”为什么他会以好奇我的所作所为为己任呢？——我带着我的家人去海岸的一处或另一处？——我希望，我可能会被允许像先生一样运用我的判断力。佩里——我想要他的指示，就像想要他的药物一样。”他停顿了一下——瞬间变得冷静下来，补充道，只是带着讽刺的干涩，“如果佩里先生能告诉我如何将妻子和五个孩子运送到远处一百三十英里的路程不会比四十英里的路程更大的费用或不便，我会像他自己一样愿意选择克罗默而不是南端。

‘True, true,’ cried Mr. Knightley, with most ready interposition— ‘very true. That’s a consideration indeed.—But John, as to what I was telling you of my idea of moving the path to Langham, of turning it more to the right that it may not cut through the home meadows, I cannot conceive any difficulty. I should not attempt it, if it were to be the means of inconvenience to the Highbury people, but if you call to mind exactly the present line of the path…. The only way of proving it, however, will be to turn to our maps. I shall see you at the Abbey to-morrow morning I hope, and then we will look them over, and you shall give me your opinion.’
“真的，真的，”奈特利先生大喊道，并立即介入——“非常正确。”这确实是一个考虑因素。——但是约翰，至于我告诉你我的想法，即把路移到朗廷，把它转向右边，这样它就不会穿过家乡的草地，我想象不出有什么困难。我不应该尝试它，如果它会给海布里人民带来不便，但如果你准确地回想起目前的路线……。然而，证明这一点的唯一方法是转向我们的地图。我希望明天早上我会在修道院见到你，然后我们会检查它们，你会给我你的意见。

Mr. Woodhouse was rather agitated by such harsh reflections on his friend Perry, to whom he had, in fact, though unconsciously, been attributing many of his own feelings and expressions;— but the soothing attentions of his daughters gradually removed the present evil, and the immediate alertness of one brother, and better recollections of the other, prevented any renewal of it.
伍德豪斯先生对他的朋友佩里如此严厉的反思感到相当激动，事实上，尽管他无意识地，他已经将自己的许多感情和表达归因于佩里；但他女儿们的抚慰关注逐渐消除了目前的邪恶，一位弟兄立即警觉，另一位弟兄的回忆更清楚，这一切都阻止了这一切的发生。

Chapter XIII
第十三章

There could hardly be a happier creature in the world than Mrs. John Knightley, in this short visit to Hartfield, going about every morning among her old acquaintance with her five children, and talking over what she had done every evening with her father and sister. She had nothing to wish otherwise, but that the days did not pass so swiftly. It was a delightful visit;—perfect, in being much too short.
世界上没有比约翰·奈特利夫人更幸福的人了，在这次对哈特菲尔德的短暂访问中，每天早上都和她的五个孩子一起在她的老熟人中间走来走去，并谈论她每天晚上与父亲和妹妹所做的事情。她没有什么别的希望，只是日子过得不那么快。这是一次令人愉快的访问；——完美，但时间太短了。

In general their evenings were less engaged with friends than their mornings; but one complete dinner engagement, and out of the house too, there was no avoiding, though at Christmas. Mr. Weston would take no denial; they must all dine at Randalls one day;—even Mr. Woodhouse was persuaded to think it a possible thing in preference to a division of the party.
一般来说，他们晚上与朋友的接触比早上少。但一场完整的晚餐约会，而且还要走出家门，尽管是在圣诞节，但这是不可避免的。韦斯顿先生不会接受否认。有一天，他们必须在兰德尔餐厅吃饭；——甚至伍德豪斯先生也被说服认为这是可能的事情，而不是党的分裂。

How they were all to be conveyed, he would have made a difficulty if he could, but as his son and daughter’s carriage and horses were actually at Hartfield, he was not able to make more than a simple question on that head; it hardly amounted to a doubt; nor did it occupy Emma long to convince him that they might in one of the carriages find room for Harriet also.
怎样把它们全部传达出去，如果可以的话，他会为难的，但由于他儿子和女儿的马车和马匹实际上都在哈特菲尔德，他只能在这个问题上提出一个简单的问题；这几乎不构成疑问；爱玛也没有花很长时间说服他，他们可以在其中一辆车厢里为哈丽特找到座位。

Harriet, Mr. Elton, and Mr. Knightley, their own especial set, were the only persons invited to meet them;—the hours were to be early, as well as the numbers few; Mr. Woodhouse’s habits and inclination being consulted in every thing.
哈丽雅特、埃尔顿先生和奈特利先生，他们自己的特殊群体，是唯一受邀与他们会面的人；——时间很早，而且人数也很少；而且，他们的人数也很少。凡事都会参考伍德豪斯先生的习惯和倾向。

The evening before this great event (for it was a very great event that Mr. Woodhouse should dine out, on the 24th of December) had been spent by Harriet at Hartfield, and she had gone home so much indisposed with a cold, that, but for her own earnest wish of being nursed by Mrs. Goddard, Emma could not have allowed her to leave the house. Emma called on her the next day, and found her doom already signed with regard to Randalls. She was very feverish and had a bad sore throat: Mrs. Goddard was full of care and affection, Mr. Perry was talked of, and Harriet herself was too ill and low to resist the authority which excluded her from this delightful engagement, though she could not speak of her loss without many tears.
这场盛事的前一天晚上（因为伍德豪斯先生应该在 12 月 24 日外出就餐，这是一场非常盛大的活动），哈丽特在哈特菲尔德度过了这一天，她回家时感冒了，身体非常不舒服，所以，要不是爱玛真心希望得到戈达德夫人的照顾，她不可能允许她离开家。第二天，艾玛拜访了她，发现她对兰德尔斯的厄运已经注定。她发烧得很厉害，喉咙也很痛：戈达德夫人充满了关怀和感情，人们谈论佩里先生，而哈丽特本人病得太重，地位很低，无法抗拒权威，使她无法参加这次令人愉快的订婚，尽管她谈到她的损失，她不禁流下许多泪水。

Emma sat with her as long as she could, to attend her in Mrs. Goddard’s unavoidable absences, and raise her spirits by representing how much Mr. Elton’s would be depressed when he knew her state; and left her at last tolerably comfortable, in the sweet dependence of his having a most comfortless visit, and of their all missing her very much. She had not advanced many yards from Mrs. Goddard’s door, when she was met by Mr. Elton himself, evidently coming towards it, and as they walked on slowly together in conversation about the invalid— of whom he, on the rumour of considerable illness, had been going to inquire, that he might carry some report of her to Hartfield— they were overtaken by Mr. John Knightley returning from the daily visit to Donwell, with his two eldest boys, whose healthy, glowing faces shewed all the benefit of a country run, and seemed to ensure a quick despatch of the roast mutton and rice pudding they were hastening home for. They joined company and proceeded together. Emma was just describing the nature of her friend’s complaint;— ‘a throat very much inflamed, with a great deal of heat about her, a quick, low pulse, &c. and she was sorry to find from Mrs. Goddard that Harriet was liable to very bad sore-throats, and had often alarmed her with them.’ Mr. Elton looked all alarm on the occasion, as he exclaimed,
爱玛尽可能长时间地陪在她身边，在戈达德夫人不可避免地缺席时照顾她，并通过代表埃尔顿先生知道她的状况后会感到多么沮丧来振奋她的精神。最后让她感到还算舒服，因为他度过了一次最不舒服的拜访，他们都非常想念她，甜蜜地依赖着她。她距离戈达德夫人的门没走多远，埃尔顿先生亲自迎接了她，显然是朝门走来的，他们一起慢慢地走着，谈论着病人——他有传言说他得了重病。本来打算打听一下，让他带一些有关她的报告到哈特菲尔德——他们被约翰·奈特利先生赶上来了，他每天都去唐威尔拜访，带着他的两个大儿子，他们健康、容光焕发的脸显示出所有的好处。一次乡间跑步，似乎可以确保他们赶回家吃的烤羊肉和八宝粥很快就能寄出。他们加入了公司并一起前进。艾玛只是在描述她朋友的抱怨的性质；——“喉咙发炎，全身发热，脉搏快而低，等等。”她很遗憾地从戈达德太太那里得知，哈丽雅特患有非常严重的喉咙痛，而且常常因此而惊动她。

‘A sore-throat!—I hope not infectious. I hope not of a putrid infectious sort. Has Perry seen her? Indeed you should take care of yourself as well as of your friend. Let me entreat you to run no risks. Why does not Perry see her?’
“喉咙痛！——我希望不会传染。”我希望不是腐烂的传染病。佩里见过她吗？事实上，你应该像照顾你的朋友一样照顾好自己。让我恳求你不要冒险。为什么佩里没有看到她？

Emma, who was not really at all frightened herself, tranquillised this excess of apprehension by assurances of Mrs. Goddard’s experience and care; but as there must still remain a degree of uneasiness which she could not wish to reason away, which she would rather feed and assist than not, she added soon afterwards—as if quite another subject,
艾玛自己其实一点也不害怕，她向戈达德夫人保证自己的经验和照顾，从而平息了她过度的忧虑。但由于肯定仍然存在一定程度的不安，她不想用推理来消除这种不安，她宁愿提供和帮助也不愿不这样做，她很快又补充道——仿佛完全是另一个话题，

‘It is so cold, so very cold—and looks and feels so very much like snow, that if it were to any other place or with any other party, I should really try not to go out to-day—and dissuade my father from venturing; but as he has made up his mind, and does not seem to feel the cold himself, I do not like to interfere, as I know it would be so great a disappointment to Mr. and Mrs. Weston. But, upon my word, Mr. Elton, in your case, I should certainly excuse myself. You appear to me a little hoarse already, and when you consider what demand of voice and what fatigues to-morrow will bring, I think it would be no more than common prudence to stay at home and take care of yourself to-night.’
“天气太冷了，太冷了——看起来和感觉起来都非常像雪，如果是去任何其他地方或参加任何其他聚会，我今天真的应该尽量不要出去——并劝阻我的父亲来自冒险；但既然他已经下定决心，而且自己似乎并不感到寒冷，我不想干涉，因为我知道这会让韦斯顿先生和夫人非常失望。但是，根据我的话，埃尔顿先生，就你的情况而言，我当然应该原谅。在我看来，你已经有点嘶哑了，当你考虑到明天会带来什么样的声音需求和什么样的疲劳时，我认为今晚留在家里照顾自己只是一般的谨慎做法。

Mr. Elton looked as if he did not very well know what answer to make; which was exactly the case; for though very much gratified by the kind care of such a fair lady, and not liking to resist any advice of her’s, he had not really the least inclination to give up the visit;— but Emma, too eager and busy in her own previous conceptions and views to hear him impartially, or see him with clear vision, was very well satisfied with his muttering acknowledgment of its being ‘very cold, certainly very cold,’ and walked on, rejoicing in having extricated him from Randalls, and secured him the power of sending to inquire after Harriet every hour of the evening.
埃尔顿先生看上去似乎不太知道该作何回答。事实确实如此；因为虽然他对这样一位美丽女士的善意照顾感到非常满意，而且不愿意拒绝她的任何建议，但他实际上并没有丝毫放弃这次拜访的意愿；——但是艾玛，她在自己的过去太急切和忙碌了公正地听到他的想法和观点，或者以清晰的视野看到他，对他咕哝着承认天气“非常冷，当然非常冷”感到非常满意，然后继续前行，为将他从兰德尔斯手中解救出来并保护他而感到高兴晚上每个小时派人去询问哈丽特的权力。

‘You do quite right,’ said she;—‘we will make your apologies to Mr. and Mrs. Weston.’
“你做得很对，”她说，“我们会向韦斯顿先生和夫人道歉。”

But hardly had she so spoken, when she found her brother was civilly offering a seat in his carriage, if the weather were Mr. Elton’s only objection, and Mr. Elton actually accepting the offer with much prompt satisfaction. It was a done thing; Mr. Elton was to go, and never had his broad handsome face expressed more pleasure than at this moment; never had his smile been stronger, nor his eyes more exulting than when he next looked at her.
但她话还没说完，就发现她哥哥正在礼貌地在马车上提供座位，如果天气是埃尔顿先生唯一的反对的话，而埃尔顿先生实际上很快就满意地接受了这个提议。这是已经完成的事情了；埃尔顿先生要走了，他宽阔而英俊的脸上从来没有像现在这样流露出如此的喜悦。当他下次看着她时，他的笑容从未如此强烈，他的眼神也从未如此欣喜。

‘Well,’ said she to herself, ‘this is most strange!—After I had got him off so well, to chuse to go into company, and leave Harriet ill behind!—Most strange indeed!—But there is, I believe, in many men, especially single men, such an inclination— such a passion for dining out—a dinner engagement is so high in the class of their pleasures, their employments, their dignities, almost their duties, that any thing gives way to it—and this must be the case with Mr. Elton; a most valuable, amiable, pleasing young man undoubtedly, and very much in love with Harriet; but still, he cannot refuse an invitation, he must dine out wherever he is asked. What a strange thing love is! he can see ready wit in Harriet, but will not dine alone for her.’
“好吧，”她自言自语道，“这真是太奇怪了！——在我把他弄得这么好之后，我却选择去陪伴，而把生病的哈丽特留在后面！——确实是最奇怪的！——但是，我相信，有这样的情况。”对于许多男人，尤其是单身男人来说，外出就餐的这种倾向——这种热情——在他们的快乐、工作、尊严、几乎他们的职责中，晚餐的参与度是如此之高，以至于任何事情都让位于它——埃尔顿先生一定就是这种情况；毫无疑问，他是一个最有价值、最和蔼可亲、最讨人喜欢的年轻人，而且非常爱哈丽特。但他仍然不能拒绝邀请，无论有人邀请他去哪里，他都必须外出就餐。爱情是多么奇怪的东西啊！他在哈丽特身上看到了机智，但不会独自为她吃饭。

Soon afterwards Mr. Elton quitted them, and she could not but do him the justice of feeling that there was a great deal of sentiment in his manner of naming Harriet at parting; in the tone of his voice while assuring her that he should call at Mrs. Goddard’s for news of her fair friend, the last thing before he prepared for the happiness of meeting her again, when he hoped to be able to give a better report; and he sighed and smiled himself off in a way that left the balance of approbation much in his favour.
不久之后，埃尔顿先生就离开了他们，她不得不公正地认为，他在临别时提到哈丽特的方式中充满了感情。他用语气向她保证，他应该去戈达德夫人家打听她好朋友的消息，这是他为再次见到她的幸福做准备之前的最后一件事，当时他希望能够提供更好的报告；他叹了口气，笑了笑，这让人们对他表示赞同。

After a few minutes of entire silence between them, John Knightley began with—
他们之间完全沉默了几分钟后，约翰·奈特利开始说道——

‘I never in my life saw a man more intent on being agreeable than Mr. Elton. It is downright labour to him where ladies are concerned. With men he can be rational and unaffected, but when he has ladies to please, every feature works.’
“我一生中从未见过比埃尔顿先生更热衷于讨人喜欢的人。对于女士来说，这对他来说是彻头彻尾的劳动。对男人来说，他可以很理性、不受影响，但当他有女人要取悦时，每一个特征都有效。

‘Mr. Elton’s manners are not perfect,’ replied Emma; ‘but where there is a wish to please, one ought to overlook, and one does overlook a great deal. Where a man does his best with only moderate powers, he will have the advantage over negligent superiority. There is such perfect good-temper and good-will in Mr. Elton as one cannot but value.’
'先生。艾玛回答说，埃尔顿的举止并不完美。 “但凡是想要取悦别人的地方，就应该忽视，而人们确实忽视了很多事情。当一个人仅以适度的力量尽力而为时，他将比疏忽的优势更有优势。埃尔顿先生的脾气和善意是如此完美，令人不得不珍惜。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. John Knightley presently, with some slyness, ‘he seems to have a great deal of good-will towards you.’
“是的，”约翰·奈特利先生立刻说道，语气有些狡猾，“他似乎对你很有好感。”

‘Me!’ she replied with a smile of astonishment, ‘are you imagining me to be Mr. Elton’s object?’
“我！”她惊讶地笑着回答，“你以为我是埃尔顿先生的对象吗？”

‘Such an imagination has crossed me, I own, Emma; and if it never occurred to you before, you may as well take it into consideration now.’
“我承认，艾玛，我曾有过这样的想象力；如果你以前从未想到过，你现在不妨考虑一下。

‘Mr. Elton in love with me!—What an idea!’
'先生。埃尔顿爱上了我！——多好的主意！

‘I do not say it is so; but you will do well to consider whether it is so or not, and to regulate your behaviour accordingly. I think your manners to him encouraging. I speak as a friend, Emma. You had better look about you, and ascertain what you do, and what you mean to do.’
‘我不是说是这样；但你最好考虑一下是否如此，并相应地规范你的行为。我认为你的举止对他来说是鼓舞人心的。我以朋友的身份发言，艾玛。你最好看看自己，确定你在做什么，你打算做什么。

‘I thank you; but I assure you you are quite mistaken. Mr. Elton and I are very good friends, and nothing more;’ and she walked on, amusing herself in the consideration of the blunders which often arise from a partial knowledge of circumstances, of the mistakes which people of high pretensions to judgment are for ever falling into; and not very well pleased with her brother for imagining her blind and ignorant, and in want of counsel. He said no more.
'我谢谢你;但我向你保证你完全错了。埃尔顿先生和我是非常好的朋友，仅此而已。”她一边走一边自娱自乐地思考着由于对情况的片面了解而经常出现的错误，以及那些自以为有判断力的人所犯的错误。曾经陷入；她对她哥哥认为她又瞎又无知又缺乏建议的想法感到不太满意。他没有再说什么。

Mr. Woodhouse had so completely made up his mind to the visit, that in spite of the increasing coldness, he seemed to have no idea of shrinking from it, and set forward at last most punctually with his eldest daughter in his own carriage, with less apparent consciousness of the weather than either of the others; too full of the wonder of his own going, and the pleasure it was to afford at Randalls to see that it was cold, and too well wrapt up to feel it. The cold, however, was severe; and by the time the second carriage was in motion, a few flakes of snow were finding their way down, and the sky had the appearance of being so overcharged as to want only a milder air to produce a very white world in a very short time.
伍德豪斯先生已经下定决心要来拜访了，尽管天气越来越冷，他似乎并没有退缩的意思，最后还是很准时地带着大女儿乘坐自己的马车出发了。与其他人相比，对天气的意识不太明显；他对自己的旅程充满了惊奇，也很高兴在兰德尔斯看到天气很冷，而且包裹得太严实了，感觉不到它。然而，寒冷却很严重。当第二辆马车开动的时候，几片雪花飘落下来，天空显得过于充沛，只需要温和的空气就能在很短的时间内产生一个非常白色的世界。

Emma soon saw that her companion was not in the happiest humour. The preparing and the going abroad in such weather, with the sacrifice of his children after dinner, were evils, were disagreeables at least, which Mr. John Knightley did not by any means like; he anticipated nothing in the visit that could be at all worth the purchase; and the whole of their drive to the vicarage was spent by him in expressing his discontent.
艾玛很快就发现她的同伴心情不太好。在这样的天气里准备和出国，晚饭后牺牲他的孩子们，是邪恶的，至少是令人不愉快的，约翰·奈特利先生无论如何也不喜欢这一点。他在这次访问中没有预料到任何值得购买的东西。他们一路驱车前往牧师住宅，他都在表达自己的不满。

‘A man,’ said he, ‘must have a very good opinion of himself when he asks people to leave their own fireside, and encounter such a day as this, for the sake of coming to see him. He must think himself a most agreeable fellow; I could not do such a thing. It is the greatest absurdity—Actually snowing at this moment!— The folly of not allowing people to be comfortable at home—and the folly of people’s not staying comfortably at home when they can! If we were obliged to go out such an evening as this, by any call of duty or business, what a hardship we should deem it;—and here are we, probably with rather thinner clothing than usual, setting forward voluntarily, without excuse, in defiance of the voice of nature, which tells man, in every thing given to his view or his feelings, to stay at home himself, and keep all under shelter that he can;— here are we setting forward to spend five dull hours in another man’s house, with nothing to say or to hear that was not said and heard yesterday, and may not be said and heard again to-morrow. Going in dismal weather, to return probably in worse;—four horses and four servants taken out for nothing but to convey five idle, shivering creatures into colder rooms and worse company than they might have had at home.’
“一个人，”他说，“当他要求人们离开自己的炉边，遇到这样的日子，为了来看他时，他必须对自己有很好的评价。他一定认为自己是一个最讨人喜欢的人；我做不到这样的事。这是最大的荒谬——此时居然下雪了！——不让人们在家里舒服的愚蠢——以及人们在可以舒服的时候不让人们舒服地呆在家里的愚蠢！如果我们不得不在这样一个晚上出去，出于任何职责或业务的需要，我们会认为这是多么困难；——而我们在这里，可能穿着比平时更薄的衣服，自愿出发，没有任何借口，大自然的声音告诉人们，在一切事情上都要考虑自己的观点或感情，自己呆在家里，并尽可能地将所有东西都放在庇护所下；——我们准备在这度过无聊的五个小时。另一个人的房子里，没有什么可说或可听的，昨天没有说过和听到过，明天也可能不会再说和听到了。在阴沉的天气里去，回来的时候可能会更糟；——四匹马和四个仆人被带出去，只是为了把五个无所事事、瑟瑟发抖的动物运送到更冷的房间里，和比他们在家里可能有的更糟糕的陪伴。

Emma did not find herself equal to give the pleased assent, which no doubt he was in the habit of receiving, to emulate the ‘Very true, my love,’ which must have been usually administered by his travelling companion; but she had resolution enough to refrain from making any answer at all. She could not be complying, she dreaded being quarrelsome; her heroism reached only to silence. She allowed him to talk, and arranged the glasses, and wrapped herself up, without opening her lips.
艾玛发现自己无法欣然同意，这无疑是他接受的习惯，效仿“非常真实，我的爱人”，这肯定是由他的旅伴通常执行的。但她有足够的决心，没有做出任何回答。她无法顺从，她害怕与人争吵。她的英雄主义最终导致了沉默。她让他说话，摆好眼镜，把自己包裹起来，没有张开嘴唇。

They arrived, the carriage turned, the step was let down, and Mr. Elton, spruce, black, and smiling, was with them instantly. Emma thought with pleasure of some change of subject. Mr. Elton was all obligation and cheerfulness; he was so very cheerful in his civilities indeed, that she began to think he must have received a different account of Harriet from what had reached her. She had sent while dressing, and the answer had been, ‘Much the same— not better.’
他们到了，马车掉头，台阶放下，埃尔顿先生，云杉色，黑人，微笑着，立刻就和他们在一起了。艾玛高兴地想到要换个话题。埃尔顿先生非常有责任心，而且很高兴。他的礼貌确实非常令人高兴，以至于她开始认为他收到的关于哈丽特的描述一定与她所听到的不同。她一边穿衣服一边发邮件，得到的答复是：“差不多——没有更好。”

‘My report from Mrs. Goddard’s,’ said she presently, ‘was not so pleasant as I had hoped—‘Not better’ was my answer.’
“戈达德夫人给我的报告，”她立即说道，“并不像我希望的那样令人愉快——我的回答是‘没有更好’。”

His face lengthened immediately; and his voice was the voice of sentiment as he answered.
他的脸立刻拉长了。他回答时的声音充满感情。

‘Oh! no—I am grieved to find—I was on the point of telling you that when I called at Mrs. Goddard’s door, which I did the very last thing before I returned to dress, I was told that Miss Smith was not better, by no means better, rather worse. Very much grieved and concerned— I had flattered myself that she must be better after such a cordial as I knew had been given her in the morning.’
'哦！不——我很难过地发现——我正要告诉你，当我打电话到戈达德夫人家门口时，我在穿好衣服之前做了最后一件事，我被告知史密斯小姐的情况并没有好转，没有意味着更好，反而更糟。非常悲伤和担心——我自以为在早上给了她一杯我知道的甜酒后，她一定好多了。

Emma smiled and answered—‘My visit was of use to the nervous part of her complaint, I hope; but not even I can charm away a sore throat; it is a most severe cold indeed. Mr. Perry has been with her, as you probably heard.’
艾玛微笑着回答道：“我希望我的拜访有助于缓解她抱怨中的紧张部分；但即使是我也无法消除喉咙痛；这确实是一场最严重的感冒。你可能听说过，佩里先生一直和她在一起。

‘Yes—I imagined—that is—I did not—‘
“是的——我想象的——也就是说——我没有——”

‘He has been used to her in these complaints, and I hope to-morrow morning will bring us both a more comfortable report. But it is impossible not to feel uneasiness. Such a sad loss to our party to-day!’
“他已经习惯了她的这些抱怨，我希望明天早上能给我们带来一份更舒服的报告。但不感到不安是不可能的。今天我们党的损失真是太悲惨了！”

‘Dreadful!—Exactly so, indeed.—She will be missed every moment.’
“太可怕了！——确实如此。——我们每时每刻都会想念她。”

This was very proper; the sigh which accompanied it was really estimable; but it should have lasted longer. Emma was rather in dismay when only half a minute afterwards he began to speak of other things, and in a voice of the greatest alacrity and enjoyment.
这是非常恰当的；随之而来的叹息真是可贵。但它应该持续更长时间。仅仅半分钟后，艾玛就感到相当沮丧，因为他开始用一种极其愉快和愉快的声音谈论其他事情。

‘What an excellent device,’ said he, ‘the use of a sheepskin for carriages. How very comfortable they make it;—impossible to feel cold with such precautions. The contrivances of modern days indeed have rendered a gentleman’s carriage perfectly complete. One is so fenced and guarded from the weather, that not a breath of air can find its way unpermitted. Weather becomes absolutely of no consequence. It is a very cold afternoon—but in this carriage we know nothing of the matter.—Ha! snows a little I see.’
“这是多么出色的设计啊，”他说道，“用羊皮制作马车。他们做得多么舒服啊——有了这样的预防措施，不可能感到寒冷。现代的发明确实使绅士的仪容变得完美。这里有如此严密的栅栏和严密的保护，不受天气影响，没有一丝空气可以未经允许地进入。天气变得完全无关紧要。这是一个非常寒冷的下午——但在这节车厢里我们却一无所知。——哈！我看有一点雪。”

‘Yes,’ said John Knightley, ‘and I think we shall have a good deal of it.’
“是的，”约翰·奈特利说，“我想我们会得到很多。”

‘Christmas weather,’ observed Mr. Elton. ‘Quite seasonable; and extremely fortunate we may think ourselves that it did not begin yesterday, and prevent this day’s party, which it might very possibly have done, for Mr. Woodhouse would hardly have ventured had there been much snow on the ground; but now it is of no consequence. This is quite the season indeed for friendly meetings. At Christmas every body invites their friends about them, and people think little of even the worst weather. I was snowed up at a friend’s house once for a week. Nothing could be pleasanter. I went for only one night, and could not get away till that very day se’nnight.’
“圣诞节的天气，”埃尔顿先生说道。 “相当及时；非常幸运的是，我们可能会认为这不是昨天开始的，并阻止了今天的聚会，这很可能已经完成了，因为如果地上有很多雪，伍德豪斯先生几乎不会冒险；但现在这已经不重要了。这确实是友好会议的季节。在圣诞节，每个人都会邀请他们的朋友一起来，人们甚至很少考虑即使是最糟糕的天气。有一次我在朋友家被雪封了一个星期。没有什么比这更令人愉快的了。我只去了一晚，直到那天晚上才离开。

Mr. John Knightley looked as if he did not comprehend the pleasure, but said only, coolly,
约翰·奈特利先生看上去似乎不理解这种乐趣，但只是冷静地说：

‘I cannot wish to be snowed up a week at Randalls.’
“我不希望在兰德尔斯被雪覆盖一周。”

At another time Emma might have been amused, but she was too much astonished now at Mr. Elton’s spirits for other feelings. Harriet seemed quite forgotten in the expectation of a pleasant party.
换做其他时候，艾玛可能会觉得好笑，但现在她对埃尔顿先生的精神感到非常惊讶，没有其他感觉。哈丽特似乎完全忘记了期待一场愉快的聚会。

‘We are sure of excellent fires,’ continued he, ‘and every thing in the greatest comfort. Charming people, Mr. and Mrs. Weston;— Mrs. Weston indeed is much beyond praise, and he is exactly what one values, so hospitable, and so fond of society;— it will be a small party, but where small parties are select, they are perhaps the most agreeable of any. Mr. Weston’s dining-room does not accommodate more than ten comfortably; and for my part, I would rather, under such circumstances, fall short by two than exceed by two. I think you will agree with me, (turning with a soft air to Emma,) I think I shall certainly have your approbation, though Mr. Knightley perhaps, from being used to the large parties of London, may not quite enter into our feelings.’
“我们确信火势极佳，”他继续说道，“一切都非常舒适。”韦斯顿先生和韦斯顿夫人，真是有魅力的人；——韦斯顿夫人确实是值得称赞的，他正是人们所看重的人，如此热情好客，如此热爱社交；——这将是一个小型聚会，但在小型聚会的地方选择，他们可能是最令人愉快的。韦斯顿先生的餐厅不能容纳十人以上。就我而言，在这种情况下，我宁愿低于两个，也不愿超过两个。我想你会同意我的观点，（温和地转向艾玛）我想我一定会得到你的认可，尽管奈特利先生也许因为习惯了伦敦的大型聚会而不太了解我们的感受.'

‘I know nothing of the large parties of London, sir—I never dine with any body.’
“我对伦敦的大型聚会一无所知，先生——我从来不和任何人一起吃饭。”

‘Indeed! (in a tone of wonder and pity,) I had no idea that the law had been so great a slavery. Well, sir, the time must come when you will be paid for all this, when you will have little labour and great enjoyment.’
'的确！ （以惊奇和怜悯的语气）我不知道法律是这么大的奴役。好吧，先生，总有一天，你会得到这一切的报酬，那时你会少劳多得，享受极大的享受。”

‘My first enjoyment,’ replied John Knightley, as they passed through the sweep-gate, ‘will be to find myself safe at Hartfield again.’
当他们穿过扫门时，约翰·奈特利回答说：“我的第一个享受就是再次安全地回到哈特菲尔德。”

Chapter XIV
第十四章

Some change of countenance was necessary for each gentleman as they walked into Mrs. Weston’s drawing-room;—Mr. Elton must compose his joyous looks, and Mr. John Knightley disperse his ill-humour. Mr. Elton must smile less, and Mr. John Knightley more, to fit them for the place.—Emma only might be as nature prompted, and shew herself just as happy as she was. To her it was real enjoyment to be with the Westons. Mr. Weston was a great favourite, and there was not a creature in the world to whom she spoke with such unreserve, as to his wife; not any one, to whom she related with such conviction of being listened to and understood, of being always interesting and always intelligible, the little affairs, arrangements, perplexities, and pleasures of her father and herself. She could tell nothing of Hartfield, in which Mrs. Weston had not a lively concern; and half an hour’s uninterrupted communication of all those little matters on which the daily happiness of private life depends, was one of the first gratifications of each.
当每位绅士走进韦斯顿夫人的客厅时，他们的面容都必须有所改变；——埃尔顿必须镇定住他的喜悦表情，而约翰·奈特利先生则要驱散他的坏脾气。埃尔顿先生必须少微笑，约翰·奈特利先生必须多微笑，以使他们适应这个地方。——艾玛只能按照自然的提示，表现出她自己的快乐。对她来说，和韦斯顿一家在一起真的很享受。韦斯顿先生是她最喜欢的人，世界上没有一个人能像他的妻子一样毫无保留地对她说话。她没有向任何人讲述她父亲和她自己的小事、安排、困惑和快乐，她坚信自己会被倾听和理解，总是有趣且总是可理解的。她对哈特菲尔德一无所知，韦斯顿夫人对那里并不十分关心。半小时不间断地交流私人生活日常幸福所依赖的所有小事，是每个人的首要满足之一。

This was a pleasure which perhaps the whole day’s visit might not afford, which certainly did not belong to the present half-hour; but the very sight of Mrs. Weston, her smile, her touch, her voice was grateful to Emma, and she determined to think as little as possible of Mr. Elton’s oddities, or of any thing else unpleasant, and enjoy all that was enjoyable to the utmost.
这种乐趣也许是一整天的访问都无法提供的，当然也不属于现在的半小时。但只要看到韦斯顿夫人，她的微笑，她的触摸，她的声音，她就对艾玛心生感激，她决定尽可能少去想埃尔顿先生的怪事，或者任何其他不愉快的事情，而享受一切令人愉快的事情。到最大限度。

The misfortune of Harriet’s cold had been pretty well gone through before her arrival. Mr. Woodhouse had been safely seated long enough to give the history of it, besides all the history of his own and Isabella’s coming, and of Emma’s being to follow, and had indeed just got to the end of his satisfaction that James should come and see his daughter, when the others appeared, and Mrs. Weston, who had been almost wholly engrossed by her attentions to him, was able to turn away and welcome her dear Emma.
哈丽特感冒的不幸在她到来之前就已经过去了。伍德豪斯先生已经安全地坐了足够长的时间来讲述这件事的历史，除了他自己和伊莎贝拉的到来以及艾玛的跟随的所有历史之外，而且确实刚刚结束了他对詹姆斯应该来的满意的结束。看到他的女儿，当其他人出现时，韦斯顿夫人几乎全神贯注于对他的关注，这才转身欢迎她亲爱的艾玛。

Emma’s project of forgetting Mr. Elton for a while made her rather sorry to find, when they had all taken their places, that he was close to her. The difficulty was great of driving his strange insensibility towards Harriet, from her mind, while he not only sat at her elbow, but was continually obtruding his happy countenance on her notice, and solicitously addressing her upon every occasion. Instead of forgetting him, his behaviour was such that she could not avoid the internal suggestion of ‘Can it really be as my brother imagined? can it be possible for this man to be beginning to transfer his affections from Harriet to me?—Absurd and insufferable!’— Yet he would be so anxious for her being perfectly warm, would be so interested about her father, and so delighted with Mrs. Weston; and at last would begin admiring her drawings with so much zeal and so little knowledge as seemed terribly like a would-be lover, and made it some effort with her to preserve her good manners. For her own sake she could not be rude; and for Harriet’s, in the hope that all would yet turn out right, she was even positively civil; but it was an effort; especially as something was going on amongst the others, in the most overpowering period of Mr. Elton’s nonsense, which she particularly wished to listen to. She heard enough to know that Mr. Weston was giving some information about his son; she heard the words ‘my son,’ and ‘Frank,’ and ‘my son,’ repeated several times over; and, from a few other half-syllables very much suspected that he was announcing an early visit from his son; but before she could quiet Mr. Elton, the subject was so completely past that any reviving question from her would have been awkward.
艾玛计划暂时忘记埃尔顿先生，当他们都就位时，她很遗憾地发现他离她很近。很难把他对哈丽特的奇怪的麻木不仁的情绪从她的脑海中驱除，而他不仅坐在她的肘部，而且不断地用他快乐的表情来引起她的注意，并且在任何场合都热切地对她说话。他的行为非但没有忘记他，反而让她无法避免内心的暗示：“真的像哥哥想象的那样吗？”这个男人有可能开始把他的感情从哈丽特身上转移到我身上吗？——荒唐又令人难以忍受！”——然而，他会如此渴望她完全温暖，会对她的父亲如此感兴趣，并为她的父亲感到如此高兴。韦斯顿夫人；最后，他会开始以如此大的热情和如此少的知识欣赏她的画，看起来非常像一个潜在的情人，并与她一起努力保持良好的举止。为了她自己的缘故，她不能无礼。对于哈丽特来说，她希望一切都会好起来，甚至表现得很客气。但这是一种努力；尤其是当其他人之间正在发生一些事情时，埃尔顿先生的胡言乱语已经达到了压倒性的程度，她特别想听听。她听得够多了，知道韦斯顿先生正在提供一些关于他儿子的信息。她听到“我的儿子”、“弗兰克”和“我的儿子”这些词重复了好几次；而且，从其他几个半音节来看，我很怀疑他是在宣布他儿子提前来访。但在她让埃尔顿先生安静下来之前，这个话题已经完全过去了，所以她再提出任何问题都会很尴尬。

Now, it so happened that in spite of Emma’s resolution of never marrying, there was something in the name, in the idea of Mr. Frank Churchill, which always interested her. She had frequently thought—especially since his father’s marriage with Miss Taylor—that if she were to marry, he was the very person to suit her in age, character and condition. He seemed by this connexion between the families, quite to belong to her. She could not but suppose it to be a match that every body who knew them must think of. That Mr. and Mrs. Weston did think of it, she was very strongly persuaded; and though not meaning to be induced by him, or by any body else, to give up a situation which she believed more replete with good than any she could change it for, she had a great curiosity to see him, a decided intention of finding him pleasant, of being liked by him to a certain degree, and a sort of pleasure in the idea of their being coupled in their friends’ imaginations.
现在，碰巧的是，尽管艾玛决心永远不结婚，但弗兰克·丘吉尔先生的名字和想法中的某些东西总是让她感兴趣。她经常想——尤其是自从他父亲与泰勒小姐结婚以来——如果她要结婚，他就是在年龄、性格和条件上都适合她的人。从家族之间的这种联系来看，他似乎完全属于她。她不能不认为这是每一个认识他们的人都一定会想到的匹配。韦斯顿夫妇确实想到了这一点，她对此深信不疑。虽然她无意被他或任何其他人诱导而放弃她认为比她所能改变的任何事物都更美好的处境，但她有很大的好奇心想见见他，决心要找到他。他很令人愉快，在某种程度上被他喜欢，并且在他们在朋友的想象中结合的想法中感到一种快乐。

With such sensations, Mr. Elton’s civilities were dreadfully ill-timed; but she had the comfort of appearing very polite, while feeling very cross—and of thinking that the rest of the visit could not possibly pass without bringing forward the same information again, or the substance of it, from the open-hearted Mr. Weston.—So it proved;— for when happily released from Mr. Elton, and seated by Mr. Weston, at dinner, he made use of the very first interval in the cares of hospitality, the very first leisure from the saddle of mutton, to say to her,
面对这样的感觉，埃尔顿先生的礼貌实在是不合时宜。但她感到安慰的是，她表现得非常有礼貌，同时又感到非常生气——她认为，如果不再次从心胸开阔的韦斯顿先生那里提出相同的信息或其实质内容，那么接下来的访问就不可能过去。事实证明，当他愉快地从埃尔顿先生身边解脱出来，在韦斯顿先生身边坐下来吃晚饭时，他充分利用了招待客人的第一时间，从吃羊肉的那一刻开始的空闲时间，对她说，

‘We want only two more to be just the right number. I should like to see two more here,—your pretty little friend, Miss Smith, and my son—and then I should say we were quite complete. I believe you did not hear me telling the others in the drawing-room that we are expecting Frank. I had a letter from him this morning, and he will be with us within a fortnight.’
“我们只希望再多两个就可以了。”我想在这里再看到两个人——你漂亮的小朋友，史密斯小姐和我的儿子——然后我应该说我们已经很完整了。我相信你没有听到我告诉客厅里的其他人我们正在等弗兰克。今天早上我收到了他的来信，他将在两周内与我们在一起。

Emma spoke with a very proper degree of pleasure; and fully assented to his proposition of Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Smith making their party quite complete.
艾玛说话时带着一种非常愉快的心情。并完全同意弗兰克·丘吉尔先生和史密斯小姐的提议，让他们的聚会变得圆满。

‘He has been wanting to come to us,’ continued Mr. Weston, ‘ever since September: every letter has been full of it; but he cannot command his own time. He has those to please who must be pleased, and who (between ourselves) are sometimes to be pleased only by a good many sacrifices. But now I have no doubt of seeing him here about the second week in January.’
“从九月起，他就一直想来找我们，”韦斯顿先生继续说道，“每封信都写满了这样的想法；”但他无法掌控自己的时间。他要取悦那些必须取悦的人，而这些人（在我们之间）有时只有通过大量的牺牲才能取悦。但现在我毫无疑问会在一月的第二周在这里见到他。”

‘What a very great pleasure it will be to you! and Mrs. Weston is so anxious to be acquainted with him, that she must be almost as happy as yourself.’
‘这对你来说将是多么大的荣幸啊！韦斯顿夫人非常渴望认识他，她一定和你一样高兴。

‘Yes, she would be, but that she thinks there will be another put-off. She does not depend upon his coming so much as I do: but she does not know the parties so well as I do. The case, you see, is—(but this is quite between ourselves: I did not mention a syllable of it in the other room. There are secrets in all families, you know)—The case is, that a party of friends are invited to pay a visit at Enscombe in January; and that Frank’s coming depends upon their being put off. If they are not put off, he cannot stir. But I know they will, because it is a family that a certain lady, of some consequence, at Enscombe, has a particular dislike to: and though it is thought necessary to invite them once in two or three years, they always are put off when it comes to the point. I have not the smallest doubt of the issue. I am as confident of seeing Frank here before the middle of January, as I am of being here myself: but your good friend there (nodding towards the upper end of the table) has so few vagaries herself, and has been so little used to them at Hartfield, that she cannot calculate on their effects, as I have been long in the practice of doing.’
“是的，她会的，但她认为还会有另一次推迟。她不像我那么依赖他的到来，但她不像我那么了解各方。你看，情况是——（但这完全是我们之间的事情：我在另一个房间里没有提到它的一个音节。你知道，所有家庭都有秘密）——情况是，一群朋友正在一月份应邀访问恩斯库姆；弗兰克的到来取决于他们的推迟。如果他们不被推迟，他就无法动弹。但我知道他们会的，因为恩斯库姆的一位具有某种影响力的女士特别不喜欢这个家庭：尽管人们认为有必要每两三年邀请一次他们，但他们总是被推迟说到重点了。我对这个问题没有丝毫怀疑。我有信心在一月中旬之前在这里见到弗兰克，就像我自己在这里一样：但是你那里的好朋友（向桌子的上端点点头）自己很少有变幻莫测的事情，并且不太习惯在哈特菲尔德，她无法计算它们的影响，而我长期以来一直在这样做。

‘I am sorry there should be any thing like doubt in the case,’ replied Emma; ‘but am disposed to side with you, Mr. Weston. If you think he will come, I shall think so too; for you know Enscombe.’
“我很抱歉这件事中存在任何疑点，”艾玛回答道。 “但我愿意站在你一边，韦斯顿先生。如果你认为他会来，我也会这么认为；因为你知道恩斯库姆。”

‘Yes—I have some right to that knowledge; though I have never been at the place in my life.—She is an odd woman!—But I never allow myself to speak ill of her, on Frank’s account; for I do believe her to be very fond of him. I used to think she was not capable of being fond of any body, except herself: but she has always been kind to him (in her way—allowing for little whims and caprices, and expecting every thing to be as she likes). And it is no small credit, in my opinion, to him, that he should excite such an affection; for, though I would not say it to any body else, she has no more heart than a stone to people in general; and the devil of a temper.’
“是的——我有权利知道这一点；尽管我一生中从未去过那个地方。——她是个奇怪的女人！——但为了弗兰克，我从来不允许自己说她的坏话；她是个奇怪的女人。因为我确实相信她非常喜欢他。我曾经以为她没有能力喜欢任何人，除了她自己：但她一直对他很好（以她的方式——允许小小的突发奇想和任性，并期望一切都如她所愿）。在我看来，他能够激起这样的感情，这对他来说是不小的功劳。因为，虽然我不会对其他人这么说，但她对一般人来说就像一块石头一样。和脾气暴躁。

Emma liked the subject so well, that she began upon it, to Mrs. Weston, very soon after their moving into the drawing-room: wishing her joy— yet observing, that she knew the first meeting must be rather alarming.— Mrs. Weston agreed to it; but added, that she should be very glad to be secure of undergoing the anxiety of a first meeting at the time talked of: ‘for I cannot depend upon his coming. I cannot be so sanguine as Mr. Weston. I am very much afraid that it will all end in nothing. Mr. Weston, I dare say, has been telling you exactly how the matter stands?’
艾玛非常喜欢这个话题，所以在他们搬进客厅后不久，她就开始向韦斯顿太太谈起这个话题：祝愿她高兴——但同时观察到，她知道第一次见面一定相当令人震惊。韦斯顿同意了。但又补充说，她应该很高兴能够安全地承受所谈到的第一次见面时的焦虑：“因为我不能指望他会来。”我不可能像韦斯顿先生那么乐观。我非常害怕这一切都会不了了之。我敢说，韦斯顿先生已经告诉过你事情的具体情况了吗？

‘Yes—it seems to depend upon nothing but the ill-humour of Mrs. Churchill, which I imagine to be the most certain thing in the world.’
“是的——这似乎只取决于丘吉尔夫人的坏脾气，我想这是世界上最确定的事情。”

‘My Emma!’ replied Mrs. Weston, smiling, ‘what is the certainty of caprice?’ Then turning to Isabella, who had not been attending before—‘You must know, my dear Mrs. Knightley, that we are by no means so sure of seeing Mr. Frank Churchill, in my opinion, as his father thinks. It depends entirely upon his aunt’s spirits and pleasure; in short, upon her temper. To you—to my two daughters—I may venture on the truth. Mrs. Churchill rules at Enscombe, and is a very odd-tempered woman; and his coming now, depends upon her being willing to spare him.’
“我的艾玛！”韦斯顿夫人微笑着回答，“什么是任性的确定性？”然后转向之前没有出席的伊莎贝拉——“你必须知道，我亲爱的奈特利夫人，我们绝不是在我看来，正如他父亲所想的那样，我确信会见到弗兰克·丘吉尔先生。这完全取决于他姨妈的心情和心情。简而言之，取决于她的脾气。对于你，对于我的两个女儿，我可以冒险说出真相。丘吉尔夫人是恩斯库姆的统治者，她是一个脾气非常古怪的女人。现在他的到来取决于她是否愿意饶恕他。

‘Oh, Mrs. Churchill; every body knows Mrs. Churchill,’ replied Isabella: ‘and I am sure I never think of that poor young man without the greatest compassion. To be constantly living with an ill-tempered person, must be dreadful. It is what we happily have never known any thing of; but it must be a life of misery. What a blessing, that she never had any children! Poor little creatures, how unhappy she would have made them!’
“哦，丘吉尔夫人； “每个人都认识丘吉尔夫人，”伊莎贝拉回答道，“我确信，我从来没有对那个可怜的年轻人没有最大的同情心。经常和一个脾气暴躁的人生活在一起，一定很可怕。幸运的是，这是我们从未了解过的事情；但这必定是痛苦的生活。多么幸运，她没有孩子！可怜的小动物，她会让他们多么不高兴啊！

Emma wished she had been alone with Mrs. Weston. She should then have heard more: Mrs. Weston would speak to her, with a degree of unreserve which she would not hazard with Isabella; and, she really believed, would scarcely try to conceal any thing relative to the Churchills from her, excepting those views on the young man, of which her own imagination had already given her such instinctive knowledge. But at present there was nothing more to be said. Mr. Woodhouse very soon followed them into the drawing-room. To be sitting long after dinner, was a confinement that he could not endure. Neither wine nor conversation was any thing to him; and gladly did he move to those with whom he was always comfortable.
艾玛希望她单独和韦斯顿太太在一起。那么她应该听到更多：韦斯顿夫人会毫无保留地对她说话，而她不会冒险对伊莎贝拉说话；她确实相信，除了对这个年轻人的看法之外，她几乎不会试图向她隐瞒任何与丘吉尔家族有关的事情，而她自己的想象力已经使她本能地了解了这些看法。但目前已经没什么可说的了。伍德豪斯先生很快就跟着他们走进了客厅。晚饭后长时间坐着，对他来说是一种无法忍受的束缚。酒和谈话对他来说都无关紧要。他很高兴转向那些他总是感到舒服的人身边。

While he talked to Isabella, however, Emma found an opportunity of saying,
然而，当他与伊莎贝拉交谈时，艾玛找到了一个机会说：

‘And so you do not consider this visit from your son as by any means certain. I am sorry for it. The introduction must be unpleasant, whenever it takes place; and the sooner it could be over, the better.’
“所以你并不认为你儿子的这次来访是确定的。我对此感到抱歉。无论何时进行介绍，都必须令人不愉快；越早结束越好。

‘Yes; and every delay makes one more apprehensive of other delays. Even if this family, the Braithwaites, are put off, I am still afraid that some excuse may be found for disappointing us. I cannot bear to imagine any reluctance on his side; but I am sure there is a great wish on the Churchills’ to keep him to themselves. There is jealousy. They are jealous even of his regard for his father. In short, I can feel no dependence on his coming, and I wish Mr. Weston were less sanguine.’
'是的;每一次延误都会让人更加担心其他延误。即使布莱斯韦特一家被推迟了，我仍然担心会找到一些借口让我们失望。我无法想象他会有任何不情愿。但我确信丘吉尔家族非常希望将他留在自己身边。有嫉妒。他们甚至嫉妒他对父亲的尊重。简而言之，我对他的到来没有任何依赖，我希望韦斯顿先生不那么乐观。

‘He ought to come,’ said Emma. ‘If he could stay only a couple of days, he ought to come; and one can hardly conceive a young man’s not having it in his power to do as much as that. A young woman, if she fall into bad hands, may be teazed, and kept at a distance from those she wants to be with; but one cannot comprehend a young man’s being under such restraint, as not to be able to spend a week with his father, if he likes it.’
“他应该来，”艾玛说。 “如果他只能呆几天，他就应该来；人们很难想象一个年轻人没有能力做这么多事情。一个年轻女子，如果落入坏人之手，可能会被戏弄，并与她想在一起的人保持距离；但人们无法理解一个年轻人受到如此克制，如果他愿意的话，他无法与父亲一起度过一周。

‘One ought to be at Enscombe, and know the ways of the family, before one decides upon what he can do,’ replied Mrs. Weston. ‘One ought to use the same caution, perhaps, in judging of the conduct of any one individual of any one family; but Enscombe, I believe, certainly must not be judged by general rules: she is so very unreasonable; and every thing gives way to her.’
“在决定自己能做什么之前，应该去恩斯库姆，了解这个家庭的生活方式，”韦斯顿夫人回答道。 “也许，在判断任何一个家庭的任何一个人的行为时，我们都应该采取同样的谨慎态度；但我认为，恩斯库姆肯定不能用一般规则来评判：她太不讲理了；一切都让位给她。

‘But she is so fond of the nephew: he is so very great a favourite. Now, according to my idea of Mrs. Churchill, it would be most natural, that while she makes no sacrifice for the comfort of the husband, to whom she owes every thing, while she exercises incessant caprice towards him, she should frequently be governed by the nephew, to whom she owes nothing at all.’
“但她非常喜欢这个侄子：他非常受欢迎。现在，根据我对丘吉尔夫人的看法，最自然的是，虽然她没有为丈夫的舒适做出任何牺牲，她的一切都归功于丈夫，尽管她对他不断地任性，但她应该经常受到约束是侄子的，她根本不欠他什么。

‘My dearest Emma, do not pretend, with your sweet temper, to understand a bad one, or to lay down rules for it: you must let it go its own way. I have no doubt of his having, at times, considerable influence; but it may be perfectly impossible for him to know beforehand when it will be.’
“我最亲爱的艾玛，不要用你可爱的脾气假装理解坏人，或者为它制定规则：你必须让它按照自己的方式发展。我毫不怀疑他有时具有相当大的影响力。但他可能完全不可能事先知道什么时候会发生。

Emma listened, and then coolly said, ‘I shall not be satisfied, unless he comes.’
艾玛听了，然后冷静地说：“除非他来，否则我不会满意。”

‘He may have a great deal of influence on some points,’ continued Mrs. Weston, ‘and on others, very little: and among those, on which she is beyond his reach, it is but too likely, may be this very circumstance of his coming away from them to visit us.’
“他可能在某些方面有很大的影响力，”韦斯顿夫人继续说道，“而在另一些方面则影响很小：而在那些方面，她超出了他的范围，很可能就是这种情况。”他离开他们来拜访我们。

Chapter XV
第十五章

Mr. Woodhouse was soon ready for his tea; and when he had drank his tea he was quite ready to go home; and it was as much as his three companions could do, to entertain away his notice of the lateness of the hour, before the other gentlemen appeared. Mr. Weston was chatty and convivial, and no friend to early separations of any sort; but at last the drawing-room party did receive an augmentation. Mr. Elton, in very good spirits, was one of the first to walk in. Mrs. Weston and Emma were sitting together on a sofa. He joined them immediately, and, with scarcely an invitation, seated himself between them.
伍德豪斯先生很快就准备好喝茶了。当他喝完茶后，他就准备回家了。在其他先生出现之前，他的三个同伴就尽了最大的努力来消除他对时间已晚的注意。韦斯顿先生很健谈、很欢乐，不喜欢任何形式的提前分手。但最后，客厅聚会确实得到了扩充。埃尔顿先生心情非常好，是第一个走进来的人。韦斯顿夫人和艾玛一起坐在沙发上。他立即加入了他们，几乎没有受到邀请，就坐在了他们中间。

Emma, in good spirits too, from the amusement afforded her mind by the expectation of Mr. Frank Churchill, was willing to forget his late improprieties, and be as well satisfied with him as before, and on his making Harriet his very first subject, was ready to listen with most friendly smiles.
爱玛心情也很好，因为弗兰克·丘吉尔先生的期望给她带来了乐趣，她愿意忘记他最近的不当行为，对他像以前一样满意，并且在他把哈里特作为他的第一个主题时，准备好以最友好的微笑聆听。

He professed himself extremely anxious about her fair friend— her fair, lovely, amiable friend. ‘Did she know?—had she heard any thing about her, since their being at Randalls?— he felt much anxiety—he must confess that the nature of her complaint alarmed him considerably.’ And in this style he talked on for some time very properly, not much attending to any answer, but altogether sufficiently awake to the terror of a bad sore throat; and Emma was quite in charity with him.
他声称自己非常担心她美丽的朋友——她美丽、可爱、和蔼可亲的朋友。 “她知道吗？——自从他们来到兰德尔斯之后，她听说过任何关于她的事情吗？——他感到非常焦虑——他必须承认，她的抱怨的性质让他相当震惊。”他就这样讲了有一段时间。非常恰当地，没有过多关注任何答案，但完全清醒地意识到喉咙痛的恐惧。艾玛对他非常仁慈。

But at last there seemed a perverse turn; it seemed all at once as if he were more afraid of its being a bad sore throat on her account, than on Harriet’s—more anxious that she should escape the infection, than that there should be no infection in the complaint. He began with great earnestness to entreat her to refrain from visiting the sick-chamber again, for the present—to entreat her to promise him not to venture into such hazard till he had seen Mr. Perry and learnt his opinion; and though she tried to laugh it off and bring the subject back into its proper course, there was no putting an end to his extreme solicitude about her. She was vexed. It did appear—there was no concealing it—exactly like the pretence of being in love with her, instead of Harriet; an inconstancy, if real, the most contemptible and abominable! and she had difficulty in behaving with temper. He turned to Mrs. Weston to implore her assistance, ‘Would not she give him her support?—would not she add her persuasions to his, to induce Miss Woodhouse not to go to Mrs. Goddard’s till it were certain that Miss Smith’s disorder had no infection? He could not be satisfied without a promise— would not she give him her influence in procuring it?’
但最后似乎出现了反常的转折。突然间，他似乎更担心她的喉咙痛，而不是哈丽特的喉咙痛——更担心她应该逃脱感染，而不是在投诉中不应该有感染。他开始非常诚恳地恳求她暂时不要再去病房——恳求她答应他，在见到佩里先生并了解他的意见之前，不要冒险冒险。尽管她试图一笑置之，让话题回到正轨，但他对她的极度关心却没有停止。她很烦恼。它确实表现出来了——无可掩饰——就像假装爱着她，而不是哈丽特；这种反复无常的行为，如果是真的的话，是最可鄙可憎的！她很难控制脾气。他转向韦斯顿夫人，恳求她的帮助，“她难道不会支持他吗？——她难道不会在他的劝说中加上她的劝说，劝说伍德豪斯小姐不要去戈达德夫人家，直到确信史密斯小姐的病症已经得到缓解为止。”没有感染？如果没有承诺，他就无法满足——她难道不会在获得承诺的过程中给予他影响力吗？

‘So scrupulous for others,’ he continued, ‘and yet so careless for herself! She wanted me to nurse my cold by staying at home to-day, and yet will not promise to avoid the danger of catching an ulcerated sore throat herself. Is this fair, Mrs. Weston?—Judge between us. Have not I some right to complain? I am sure of your kind support and aid.’
“对别人如此谨慎，”他继续说道，“对自己却如此粗心！她希望我今天呆在家里治疗感冒，但她不承诺自己会避免患上喉咙溃疡的危险。这公平吗，韦斯顿夫人？——请您来评判一下。难道我没有权利抱怨吗？我确信您会提供支持和帮助。

Emma saw Mrs. Weston’s surprize, and felt that it must be great, at an address which, in words and manner, was assuming to himself the right of first interest in her; and as for herself, she was too much provoked and offended to have the power of directly saying any thing to the purpose. She could only give him a look; but it was such a look as she thought must restore him to his senses, and then left the sofa, removing to a seat by her sister, and giving her all her attention.
爱玛看到了韦斯顿夫人的惊讶，觉得这一定很棒，因为她在言语和态度上都对她拥有了优先权。至于她自己，她太被激怒和冒犯了，没有能力直接说出任何有目的的话。她只能看他一眼；但她认为这样的眼神一定能让他恢复知觉，然后离开沙发，走到她姐姐旁边的座位上，把所有的注意力都集中在她身上。

She had not time to know how Mr. Elton took the reproof, so rapidly did another subject succeed; for Mr. John Knightley now came into the room from examining the weather, and opened on them all with the information of the ground being covered with snow, and of its still snowing fast, with a strong drifting wind; concluding with these words to Mr. Woodhouse:
她没有时间知道埃尔顿先生是如何接受责备的，因为另一个话题很快就成功了。因为约翰·奈特利先生现在检查完天气走进房间，向他们所有人介绍了地面被雪覆盖的信息，而且雪还在下得很快，还刮着强劲的风。最后对伍德豪斯先生说：

‘This will prove a spirited beginning of your winter engagements, sir. Something new for your coachman and horses to be making their way through a storm of snow.’
“这将是您冬季活动的一个充满活力的开始，先生。对于你的车夫和马匹来说，在暴风雪中前行是一件新鲜事。

Poor Mr. Woodhouse was silent from consternation; but every body else had something to say; every body was either surprized or not surprized, and had some question to ask, or some comfort to offer. Mrs. Weston and Emma tried earnestly to cheer him and turn his attention from his son-in-law, who was pursuing his triumph rather unfeelingly.
可怜的伍德豪斯先生因惊愕而沉默不语。但其他人都有话要说；每个人要么感到惊讶，要么不感到惊讶，并且有一些问题要问，或者有一些安慰。韦斯顿夫人和艾玛真诚地试图为他加油，并把他的注意力从他的女婿身上转移开，而女婿正在无情地追求他的胜利。

‘I admired your resolution very much, sir,’ said he, ‘in venturing out in such weather, for of course you saw there would be snow very soon. Every body must have seen the snow coming on. I admired your spirit; and I dare say we shall get home very well. Another hour or two’s snow can hardly make the road impassable; and we are two carriages; if one is blown over in the bleak part of the common field there will be the other at hand. I dare say we shall be all safe at Hartfield before midnight.’
“我非常钦佩你的决心，先生，”他说，“在这样的天气里冒险出去，因为你当然知道很快就会下雪。每个人都一定见过下雪的情景。我钦佩你的精神；我敢说我们会顺利回家的。再下一两个小时的雪也很难使道路无法通行；我们是两节车厢；如果其中一个在共同领域的荒凉部分被风吹倒，那么另一个就在附近。我敢说午夜之前我们在哈特菲尔德都会安全的。

Mr. Weston, with triumph of a different sort, was confessing that he had known it to be snowing some time, but had not said a word, lest it should make Mr. Woodhouse uncomfortable, and be an excuse for his hurrying away. As to there being any quantity of snow fallen or likely to fall to impede their return, that was a mere joke; he was afraid they would find no difficulty. He wished the road might be impassable, that he might be able to keep them all at Randalls; and with the utmost good-will was sure that accommodation might be found for every body, calling on his wife to agree with him, that with a little contrivance, every body might be lodged, which she hardly knew how to do, from the consciousness of there being but two spare rooms in the house.
韦斯顿先生以另一种胜利的姿态承认，他早就知道下雪了，但没有说一句话，以免让伍德豪斯先生感到不舒服，并成为他匆忙离开的借口。至于说降雪量或可能降雪量会阻碍他们返回，那只是一个笑话；他担心他们不会遇到任何困难。他希望这条路不能通行，这样他就可以把他们全部留在兰德尔斯。怀着最大的善意，他确信可以为每个人找到住宿，并呼吁他的妻子同意他的意见，只要稍加努力，每个人都可以住宿，但她几乎不知道该怎么做，从意识中房子里只有两个空房间。

‘What is to be done, my dear Emma?—what is to be done?’ was Mr. Woodhouse’s first exclamation, and all that he could say for some time. To her he looked for comfort; and her assurances of safety, her representation of the excellence of the horses, and of James, and of their having so many friends about them, revived him a little.
“要做什么，我亲爱的艾玛？——要做什么？”这是伍德豪斯先生的第一声感叹，也是一段时间内他能说的全部话。他向她寻求安慰；她对安全的保证，她对马匹和詹姆斯的卓越表现，以及他们周围有这么多朋友，让他稍微恢复了一点。

His eldest daughter’s alarm was equal to his own. The horror of being blocked up at Randalls, while her children were at Hartfield, was full in her imagination; and fancying the road to be now just passable for adventurous people, but in a state that admitted no delay, she was eager to have it settled, that her father and Emma should remain at Randalls, while she and her husband set forward instantly through all the possible accumulations of drifted snow that might impede them.
他的大女儿的惊慌程度和他自己的一样。当她的孩子们在哈特菲尔德时，她被困在兰德尔斯的恐惧充满了她的想象；她想象着这条路现在对于喜欢冒险的人来说已经可以通过了，但在一种不容拖延的状态下，她渴望把事情解决，她的父亲和艾玛应该留在兰德尔斯，而她和她的丈夫立即出发，穿越所有的一切。可能会阻碍他们的流雪堆积。

‘You had better order the carriage directly, my love,’ said she; ‘I dare say we shall be able to get along, if we set off directly; and if we do come to any thing very bad, I can get out and walk. I am not at all afraid. I should not mind walking half the way. I could change my shoes, you know, the moment I got home; and it is not the sort of thing that gives me cold.’
“亲爱的，你最好直接订马车，”她说。 ‘我敢说，如果我们直接出发的话，我们应该能够相处得很好；如果我们确实遇到什么非常糟糕的事情，我可以出去走走。我一点也不害怕。我应该不介意走一半的路。你知道，我一到家就可以换鞋；这不是那种让我感到寒冷的事情。

‘Indeed!’ replied he. ‘Then, my dear Isabella, it is the most extraordinary sort of thing in the world, for in general every thing does give you cold. Walk home!—you are prettily shod for walking home, I dare say. It will be bad enough for the horses.’
“确实如此！”他回答道。 “那么，我亲爱的伊莎贝拉，这是世界上最不寻常的事情，因为一般来说，每件事都会让你感到寒冷。步行回家！——我敢说，步行回家你穿得很漂亮。这对马来说已经够糟糕的了。

Isabella turned to Mrs. Weston for her approbation of the plan. Mrs. Weston could only approve. Isabella then went to Emma; but Emma could not so entirely give up the hope of their being all able to get away; and they were still discussing the point, when Mr. Knightley, who had left the room immediately after his brother’s first report of the snow, came back again, and told them that he had been out of doors to examine, and could answer for there not being the smallest difficulty in their getting home, whenever they liked it, either now or an hour hence. He had gone beyond the sweep— some way along the Highbury road—the snow was nowhere above half an inch deep—in many places hardly enough to whiten the ground; a very few flakes were falling at present, but the clouds were parting, and there was every appearance of its being soon over. He had seen the coachmen, and they both agreed with him in there being nothing to apprehend.
伊莎贝拉向韦斯顿夫人寻求她对这个计划的认可。韦斯顿夫人只能表示赞同。伊莎贝拉随后去找艾玛。但艾玛不能完全放弃他们都能逃脱的希望。他们还在讨论这一点，奈特利先生在他哥哥第一次报告下雪后立即离开了房间，他又回来了，告诉他们他已经到外面去检查了，可以在那里回答。无论他们愿意什么时候回家，无论是现在还是一小时后，这都不是他们回家的最小困难。他已经超出了扫掠范围——沿着海布里路的一段路——雪深不超过半英寸——在许多地方几乎不足以让地面变白；眼下只有几片雪花飘落，但云层正在散去，看样子它很快就要结束了。他见过车夫，他们都同意他的观点，没有什么可担心的。

To Isabella, the relief of such tidings was very great, and they were scarcely less acceptable to Emma on her father’s account, who was immediately set as much at ease on the subject as his nervous constitution allowed; but the alarm that had been raised could not be appeased so as to admit of any comfort for him while he continued at Randalls. He was satisfied of there being no present danger in returning home, but no assurances could convince him that it was safe to stay; and while the others were variously urging and recommending, Mr. Knightley and Emma settled it in a few brief sentences: thus—
对于伊莎贝拉来说，这样的消息让她松了口气，而艾玛也因为她父亲的缘故而接受不了，因为她的父亲立刻在这个问题上尽可能地放松了，因为他的神经质允许。但是，当他继续留在兰德尔斯时，已经引起的警报无法平息，因此无法给他带来任何安慰。他对回家目前没有危险感到满意，但没有任何保证可以让他相信留下来是安全的。当其他人不断地催促和建议时，奈特利先生和艾玛用几句话就解决了这个问题：因此——

‘Your father will not be easy; why do not you go?’
‘你的父亲并不容易；你为什么不去？

‘I am ready, if the others are.’
“如果其他人都准备好了，我也准备好了。”

‘Shall I ring the bell?’
“我要按铃吗？”

‘Yes, do.’
'是的。'

And the bell was rung, and the carriages spoken for. A few minutes more, and Emma hoped to see one troublesome companion deposited in his own house, to get sober and cool, and the other recover his temper and happiness when this visit of hardship were over.
钟声响起，马车上车了。又过了几分钟，艾玛希望看到一个麻烦的同伴被送进自己的房子里，变得清醒和冷静，而另一个则在这次艰难的访问结束后恢复脾气和快乐。

The carriage came: and Mr. Woodhouse, always the first object on such occasions, was carefully attended to his own by Mr. Knightley and Mr. Weston; but not all that either could say could prevent some renewal of alarm at the sight of the snow which had actually fallen, and the discovery of a much darker night than he had been prepared for. ‘He was afraid they should have a very bad drive. He was afraid poor Isabella would not like it. And there would be poor Emma in the carriage behind. He did not know what they had best do. They must keep as much together as they could;’ and James was talked to, and given a charge to go very slow and wait for the other carriage.
马车来了：在这种场合，伍德豪斯先生总是第一个出现的对象，奈特利先生和韦斯顿先生精心照料着他自己的车。但两人所说的一切都无法阻止人们在看到真正下雪时再次感到惊慌，并发现夜晚比他预想的要黑得多。 “他担心他们的驾驶会很糟糕。他担心可怜的伊莎贝拉会不喜欢它。可怜的艾玛就坐在后面的马车里。他不知道他们最好做什么。他们必须尽可能地保持在一起；”有人与詹姆斯交谈，并要求他放慢速度，等待另一辆马车。

Isabella stept in after her father; John Knightley, forgetting that he did not belong to their party, stept in after his wife very naturally; so that Emma found, on being escorted and followed into the second carriage by Mr. Elton, that the door was to be lawfully shut on them, and that they were to have a tete-a-tete drive. It would not have been the awkwardness of a moment, it would have been rather a pleasure, previous to the suspicions of this very day; she could have talked to him of Harriet, and the three-quarters of a mile would have seemed but one. But now, she would rather it had not happened. She believed he had been drinking too much of Mr. Weston’s good wine, and felt sure that he would want to be talking nonsense.
伊莎贝拉接替她父亲。约翰·奈特利忘记了自己不属于他们的党派，很自然地跟在妻子身后插了进来。因此，艾玛在埃尔顿先生的护送和跟踪下进入第二节车厢时，发现车门依法对他们关闭，他们将进行一对一的驾驶。在今天的怀疑之前，这不会是一时的尴尬，而是一种愉快。她可以和他谈论哈丽特，而四分之三英里似乎只是一英里。但现在，她宁愿这件事没有发生。她相信他喝了太多韦斯顿先生的好酒，并且确信他会胡言乱语。

To restrain him as much as might be, by her own manners, she was immediately preparing to speak with exquisite calmness and gravity of the weather and the night; but scarcely had she begun, scarcely had they passed the sweep-gate and joined the other carriage, than she found her subject cut up—her hand seized—her attention demanded, and Mr. Elton actually making violent love to her: availing himself of the precious opportunity, declaring sentiments which must be already well known, hoping—fearing—adoring—ready to die if she refused him; but flattering himself that his ardent attachment and unequalled love and unexampled passion could not fail of having some effect, and in short, very much resolved on being seriously accepted as soon as possible. It really was so. Without scruple—without apology— without much apparent diffidence, Mr. Elton, the lover of Harriet, was professing himself her lover. She tried to stop him; but vainly; he would go on, and say it all. Angry as she was, the thought of the moment made her resolve to restrain herself when she did speak. She felt that half this folly must be drunkenness, and therefore could hope that it might belong only to the passing hour. Accordingly, with a mixture of the serious and the playful, which she hoped would best suit his half and half state, she replied,
为了尽可能地约束他，以她自己的方式，她立即准备以极其平静和严肃的态度谈论天气和夜晚；但她刚开始，他们刚通过扫门并加入另一节车厢，她就发现她的主题被切断了——她的手被抓住了——她需要注意，而埃尔顿先生实际上对她进行了暴力的爱：利用自己的这是一个宝贵的机会，可以表达众所周知的情感，希望——害怕——崇拜——如果她拒绝他，就准备好去死；但他却自以为自己的热切依恋、无与伦比的爱和无与伦比的激情一定会产生一些效果，总之，他非常决心尽快被认真接受。确实如此。哈丽特的情人埃尔顿先生毫无顾忌——没有道歉——也没有明显的羞怯，公开宣称自己是她的情人。她试图阻止他；但他没有成功。但徒劳无功；他会继续说下去，把一切都说出来。尽管她很生气，但想到这一刻，她决定在说话时克制住自己。她觉得这种蠢事有一半是醉酒造成的，因此她希望这只是过去的时光。因此，她以严肃与俏皮的混合体，希望最适合他一半一半的状态，回答说：

‘I am very much astonished, Mr. Elton. This to me! you forget yourself— you take me for my friend—any message to Miss Smith I shall be happy to deliver; but no more of this to me, if you please.’
“我非常惊讶，埃尔顿先生。这对我来说！你忘记了你自己——你把我当作我的朋友——任何给史密斯小姐的消息我都会很乐意转达；但如果你愿意的话，我就不用再这样了。”

‘Miss Smith!—message to Miss Smith!—What could she possibly mean!’— And he repeated her words with such assurance of accent, such boastful pretence of amazement, that she could not help replying with quickness,
“史密斯小姐！——给史密斯小姐留言！——她可能是什么意思！”——他用如此自信的口音重复了她的话，如此自夸地假装惊讶，以至于她情不自禁地迅速回答，

‘Mr. Elton, this is the most extraordinary conduct! and I can account for it only in one way; you are not yourself, or you could not speak either to me, or of Harriet, in such a manner. Command yourself enough to say no more, and I will endeavour to forget it.’
'先生。埃尔顿，这是最不寻常的行为！我只能用一种方式来解释它；你不是你自己，否则你不能以这种方式对我或哈丽特说话。足够命令自己不要再说了，我会尽力忘记它。

But Mr. Elton had only drunk wine enough to elevate his spirits, not at all to confuse his intellects. He perfectly knew his own meaning; and having warmly protested against her suspicion as most injurious, and slightly touched upon his respect for Miss Smith as her friend,— but acknowledging his wonder that Miss Smith should be mentioned at all,—he resumed the subject of his own passion, and was very urgent for a favourable answer.
但埃尔顿先生喝的酒只是足以提振他的精神，并没有让他的智力变得混乱。他完全清楚自己的意思；并热烈抗议她的怀疑是最有害的，并稍微提到了他对史密斯小姐作为她的朋友的尊重，但承认他对史密斯小姐应该被提及感到惊讶，他又重新开始了他自己的热情话题，并且非常迫切需要一个有利的答复。

As she thought less of his inebriety, she thought more of his inconstancy and presumption; and with fewer struggles for politeness, replied,
她较少想到他的酗酒，而更多地想到他的反复无常和专横。并没有那么费力地争取礼貌，回答道：

‘It is impossible for me to doubt any longer. You have made yourself too clear. Mr. Elton, my astonishment is much beyond any thing I can express. After such behaviour, as I have witnessed during the last month, to Miss Smith—such attentions as I have been in the daily habit of observing—to be addressing me in this manner—this is an unsteadiness of character, indeed, which I had not supposed possible! Believe me, sir, I am far, very far, from gratified in being the object of such professions.’
‘我不可能再怀疑了。你把自己说得太清楚了。埃尔顿先生，我的惊讶之情无法用言语来表达。正如我在上个月亲眼目睹的那样，在史密斯小姐以这种方式对我说话时，我每天都会观察到如此的关注，这确实是一种性格的不稳定，我已经意识到了。不可能！相信我，先生，我对成为这种职业的对象感到非常非常不高兴。

‘Good Heaven!’ cried Mr. Elton, ‘what can be the meaning of this?— Miss Smith!—I never thought of Miss Smith in the whole course of my existence—never paid her any attentions, but as your friend: never cared whether she were dead or alive, but as your friend. If she has fancied otherwise, her own wishes have misled her, and I am very sorry—extremely sorry—But, Miss Smith, indeed!—Oh! Miss Woodhouse! who can think of Miss Smith, when Miss Woodhouse is near! No, upon my honour, there is no unsteadiness of character. I have thought only of you. I protest against having paid the smallest attention to any one else. Every thing that I have said or done, for many weeks past, has been with the sole view of marking my adoration of yourself. You cannot really, seriously, doubt it. No!—(in an accent meant to be insinuating)—I am sure you have seen and understood me.’
“天哪！”埃尔顿先生喊道，“这是什么意思？——史密斯小姐！——我一生中从来没有想到过史密斯小姐——从来没有关注过她，但作为你的朋友：从来没有关心她是死是活，但作为你的朋友。如果她有别的想法，她自己的愿望误导了她，我很抱歉——非常抱歉——但是，史密斯小姐，确实如此！——哦！伍德豪斯小姐！当伍德豪斯小姐在附近时，谁能想到史密斯小姐呢！不，以我的名誉担保，他的性格并没有不稳定。我只想着你。我抗议对任何其他人给予哪怕一丁点的关注。在过去的几个星期里，我所说或所做的每一件事都只是为了表达我对你自己的崇拜。你不能真的、认真地怀疑它。不！——（用一种暗示的口音）——我相信你已经看到并理解了我。

It would be impossible to say what Emma felt, on hearing this— which of all her unpleasant sensations was uppermost. She was too completely overpowered to be immediately able to reply: and two moments of silence being ample encouragement for Mr. Elton’s sanguine state of mind, he tried to take her hand again, as he joyously exclaimed—
不可能说出艾玛听到这句话后的感受——她所有不愉快的感觉中哪一个是最重要的。她完全被压倒了，无法立即回答：两分钟的沉默充分鼓励了埃尔顿先生乐观的心态，他试图再次握住她的手，他高兴地喊道——

‘Charming Miss Woodhouse! allow me to interpret this interesting silence. It confesses that you have long understood me.’
“迷人的伍德豪斯小姐！请允许我来解读一下这种有趣的沉默。这说明你早就了解我了。”

‘No, sir,’ cried Emma, ‘it confesses no such thing. So far from having long understood you, I have been in a most complete error with respect to your views, till this moment. As to myself, I am very sorry that you should have been giving way to any feelings— Nothing could be farther from my wishes—your attachment to my friend Harriet—your pursuit of her, (pursuit, it appeared,) gave me great pleasure, and I have been very earnestly wishing you success: but had I supposed that she were not your attraction to Hartfield, I should certainly have thought you judged ill in making your visits so frequent. Am I to believe that you have never sought to recommend yourself particularly to Miss Smith?—that you have never thought seriously of her?’
“不，先生，”艾玛喊道，“它没有承认这样的事情。到目前为止，我对你的观点一直是完全错误的，一直以来我都没有理解你。至于我自己，我很抱歉你竟然屈服于任何感情——没有什么比我的愿望更遥远的了——你对我的朋友哈丽特的依恋——你对她的追求（看来是追求）给了我很大的快乐，我一直非常真诚地祝愿你成功：但如果我认为她不是你对哈特菲尔德的吸引力，我肯定会认为你如此频繁地来访是判断错误的。我是否可以相信你从来没有特别向史密斯小姐推荐过自己？——你从来没有认真地考虑过她？

‘Never, madam,’ cried he, affronted in his turn: ‘never, I assure you. I think seriously of Miss Smith!—Miss Smith is a very good sort of girl; and I should be happy to see her respectably settled. I wish her extremely well: and, no doubt, there are men who might not object to—Every body has their level: but as for myself, I am not, I think, quite so much at a loss. I need not so totally despair of an equal alliance, as to be addressing myself to Miss Smith!— No, madam, my visits to Hartfield have been for yourself only; and the encouragement I received—‘
“从来没有，夫人，”他喊道，自己也受到了侮辱，“从来没有，我向你保证。我很认真地对待史密斯小姐！——史密斯小姐是一个非常好的女孩；她是一个很好的人。我应该很高兴看到她安顿下来。我祝她一切顺利：毫无疑问，有些男人可能不会反对——每个人都有自己的水平：但就我自己而言，我认为我并没有那么不知所措。我不必对平等联盟完全绝望，而是向史密斯小姐致意！——不，女士，我来哈特菲尔德只是为了你自己；以及我收到的鼓励——”

‘Encouragement!—I give you encouragement!—Sir, you have been entirely mistaken in supposing it. I have seen you only as the admirer of my friend. In no other light could you have been more to me than a common acquaintance. I am exceedingly sorry: but it is well that the mistake ends where it does. Had the same behaviour continued, Miss Smith might have been led into a misconception of your views; not being aware, probably, any more than myself, of the very great inequality which you are so sensible of. But, as it is, the disappointment is single, and, I trust, will not be lasting. I have no thoughts of matrimony at present.’
“鼓励！——我给你鼓励！——先生，你的想法完全错误了。我只把你视为我朋友的崇拜者。从其他角度来看，你对我来说只不过是一个普通的熟人。我非常抱歉：但好在错误就这样结束了。如果同样的行为继续下去，史密斯小姐可能会误解你的观点；我可能和我一样没有意识到你如此敏感的巨大不平等。但事实上，这种失望是单一的，而且我相信，不会持久。我目前没有结婚的想法。

He was too angry to say another word; her manner too decided to invite supplication; and in this state of swelling resentment, and mutually deep mortification, they had to continue together a few minutes longer, for the fears of Mr. Woodhouse had confined them to a foot-pace. If there had not been so much anger, there would have been desperate awkwardness; but their straightforward emotions left no room for the little zigzags of embarrassment. Without knowing when the carriage turned into Vicarage Lane, or when it stopped, they found themselves, all at once, at the door of his house; and he was out before another syllable passed.—Emma then felt it indispensable to wish him a good night. The compliment was just returned, coldly and proudly; and, under indescribable irritation of spirits, she was then conveyed to Hartfield.
他气得说不出话来。她的态度也决定了邀请恳求。在这种日益膨胀的怨恨和相互深深的屈辱的状态下，他们不得不继续在一起几分钟，因为伍德豪斯先生的恐惧限制了他们的步伐。如果没有那么多的愤怒，就会有绝望的尴尬；但他们直率的情绪没有留下任何尴尬的空间。不知道马车什么时候拐进牧师巷，也不知道什么时候停下来，他们一下子就到了他家门口。没等另一个音节过去，他就出去了。——艾玛觉得有必要祝他晚安。恭维刚刚得到回应，冷漠而傲慢；然后，在难以形容的精神刺激下，她被送往哈特菲尔德。

There she was welcomed, with the utmost delight, by her father, who had been trembling for the dangers of a solitary drive from Vicarage Lane—turning a corner which he could never bear to think of— and in strange hands—a mere common coachman—no James; and there it seemed as if her return only were wanted to make every thing go well: for Mr. John Knightley, ashamed of his ill-humour, was now all kindness and attention; and so particularly solicitous for the comfort of her father, as to seem—if not quite ready to join him in a basin of gruel—perfectly sensible of its being exceedingly wholesome; and the day was concluding in peace and comfort to all their little party, except herself.—But her mind had never been in such perturbation; and it needed a very strong effort to appear attentive and cheerful till the usual hour of separating allowed her the relief of quiet reflection.
在那里，她受到了她父亲的热烈欢迎，她的父亲一直在为从牧师巷独自开车的危险而颤抖——拐过一个他永远无法想象的拐角——而且在陌生的人手里——一个普通的马车夫。 ——没有詹姆斯；在那里，似乎她的回归只是为了让一切顺利：因为约翰·奈特利先生为自己的坏脾气感到羞愧，现在充满了善意和关注；她特别关心父亲的舒适，似乎——即使还没有准备好和他一起喝一盆稀粥——完全意识到它非常有益健康。除了她自己之外，这一天在平安和舒适中结束了，除了她自己之外。她需要付出很大的努力才能表现得专心和愉快，直到通常的分离时刻让她能够安静地思考。

Chapter XVI
第十六章

The hair was curled, and the maid sent away, and Emma sat down to think and be miserable.—It was a wretched business indeed!—Such an overthrow of every thing she had been wishing for!—Such a development of every thing most unwelcome!—Such a blow for Harriet!—that was the worst of all. Every part of it brought pain and humiliation, of some sort or other; but, compared with the evil to Harriet, all was light; and she would gladly have submitted to feel yet more mistaken— more in error—more disgraced by mis-judgment, than she actually was, could the effects of her blunders have been confined to herself.
头发卷曲了，女仆被打发走了，艾玛坐下来思考，感到痛苦。——这确实是一件悲惨的事情！——她一直希望的一切都被推翻了！——一切的发展都是如此不受欢迎！——这对哈丽特来说是多么大的打击！——这是最糟糕的。它的每一部分都带来了某种程度的痛苦和羞辱。不过，与哈丽特所遭受的不幸相比，一切都显得微不足道了。如果她的错误的影响仅限于她自己的话，她会很高兴地感到自己比实际情况更错误，更错误，更因错误判断而蒙羞。

‘If I had not persuaded Harriet into liking the man, I could have borne any thing. He might have doubled his presumption to me— but poor Harriet!’
“如果我没有说服哈丽特喜欢这个男人，我什么都可以忍受。他可能对我更加放肆——但是可怜的哈丽特！

How she could have been so deceived!—He protested that he had never thought seriously of Harriet—never! She looked back as well as she could; but it was all confusion. She had taken up the idea, she supposed, and made every thing bend to it. His manners, however, must have been unmarked, wavering, dubious, or she could not have been so misled.
她怎么会被这样欺骗！——他抗议说他从来没有认真地考虑过哈丽特——从来没有！她尽可能地回头看去。但这一切都是混乱的。她想，她已经接受了这个想法，并且让一切都屈服于它。然而，他的举止一定是不明显的、摇摆不定的、可疑的，否则她不可能被误导得这么严重。

The picture!—How eager he had been about the picture!— and the charade!—and an hundred other circumstances;— how clearly they had seemed to point at Harriet. To be sure, the charade, with its ‘ready wit’—but then the ‘soft eyes’— in fact it suited neither; it was a jumble without taste or truth. Who could have seen through such thick-headed nonsense?
那幅画！——他多么热衷于那幅画！——还有这个谜语！——还有一百种其他情况；——它们似乎多么清楚地指向哈丽特。可以肯定的是，这个带有“机智”的字谜游戏——但随后又是“温柔的眼睛”——事实上两者都不适合；这是一片混乱，没有品味，也没有真相。如此厚颜无耻的胡言乱语谁能看穿？

Certainly she had often, especially of late, thought his manners to herself unnecessarily gallant; but it had passed as his way, as a mere error of judgment, of knowledge, of taste, as one proof among others that he had not always lived in the best society, that with all the gentleness of his address, true elegance was sometimes wanting; but, till this very day, she had never, for an instant, suspected it to mean any thing but grateful respect to her as Harriet’s friend.
当然，她经常，尤其是最近，认为他对自己的举止不必要地殷勤。但它已经成为他的方式，作为一种纯粹的判断、知识和品味的错误，作为其他证据之一，证明他并不总是生活在最好的社会中，尽管他的讲话很温柔，但有时真正的优雅却是不存在的。想要；但是，直到今天，她从来没有怀疑过这除了对她作为哈丽特的朋友表示感激之外还有什么意义。

To Mr. John Knightley was she indebted for her first idea on the subject, for the first start of its possibility. There was no denying that those brothers had penetration. She remembered what Mr. Knightley had once said to her about Mr. Elton, the caution he had given, the conviction he had professed that Mr. Elton would never marry indiscreetly; and blushed to think how much truer a knowledge of his character had been there shewn than any she had reached herself. It was dreadfully mortifying; but Mr. Elton was proving himself, in many respects, the very reverse of what she had meant and believed him; proud, assuming, conceited; very full of his own claims, and little concerned about the feelings of others.
她要感谢约翰·奈特利先生，让她在这个主题上有了第一个想法，让她第一次开始了它的可能性。不可否认，那些兄弟的洞察力是有的。她记得奈特利先生曾经对她说过关于埃尔顿先生的话，他所给予的警告，以及他所宣称的埃尔顿先生永远不会轻率结婚的信念；她记得奈特利先生曾经对她说过关于埃尔顿先生的话，他所给予的警告，以及他所宣称的埃尔顿先生永远不会轻率结婚的信念；但他对埃尔顿先生的看法却是这样的。一想到他对他性格的了解比她自己了解到的要真实得多，她就脸红了。这实在是太令人羞愧了。但埃尔顿先生在很多方面都证明自己与她的意思和相信他的想法恰恰相反。骄傲、自负、自负；非常注重自己的主张，很少关心别人的感受。

Contrary to the usual course of things, Mr. Elton’s wanting to pay his addresses to her had sunk him in her opinion. His professions and his proposals did him no service. She thought nothing of his attachment, and was insulted by his hopes. He wanted to marry well, and having the arrogance to raise his eyes to her, pretended to be in love; but she was perfectly easy as to his not suffering any disappointment that need be cared for. There had been no real affection either in his language or manners. Sighs and fine words had been given in abundance; but she could hardly devise any set of expressions, or fancy any tone of voice, less allied with real love. She need not trouble herself to pity him. He only wanted to aggrandise and enrich himself; and if Miss Woodhouse of Hartfield, the heiress of thirty thousand pounds, were not quite so easily obtained as he had fancied, he would soon try for Miss Somebody else with twenty, or with ten.
与通常的情况相反，埃尔顿先生想要向她支付地址，这让她对他的印象下降了。他的职业和建议对他没有任何帮助。她对他的依恋毫不在意，并被他的希望所侮辱。他要嫁得好，还嚣张地抬眼看她，假装恋爱；但她很放心，他不会遭受任何需要照顾的失望。他的语言和举止中都没有真正的感情。人们发出了大量的叹息和美好的言辞。但她几乎想不出任何与真爱无关的表情或语气。她不必费力去怜悯他。他只是想壮大自己、充实自己；如果哈特菲尔德的伍德豪斯小姐，三万英镑的女继承人，并不像他想象的那么容易得到，他很快就会用二十英镑或十英镑去争取其他人的小姐。

But—that he should talk of encouragement, should consider her as aware of his views, accepting his attentions, meaning (in short), to marry him!—should suppose himself her equal in connexion or mind!—look down upon her friend, so well understanding the gradations of rank below him, and be so blind to what rose above, as to fancy himself shewing no presumption in addressing her!— It was most provoking.
但是——他应该谈论鼓励，应该认为她了解他的观点，接受他的关注，意味着（简而言之），嫁给他！——应该认为自己在关系或思想上与她平等！——看不起她的朋友，他如此清楚地了解自己下面的等级，而对上面的东西却视而不见，以为自己在称呼她时没有表现出任何傲慢！——这是最令人恼火的。

Perhaps it was not fair to expect him to feel how very much he was her inferior in talent, and all the elegancies of mind. The very want of such equality might prevent his perception of it; but he must know that in fortune and consequence she was greatly his superior. He must know that the Woodhouses had been settled for several generations at Hartfield, the younger branch of a very ancient family—and that the Eltons were nobody. The landed property of Hartfield certainly was inconsiderable, being but a sort of notch in the Donwell Abbey estate, to which all the rest of Highbury belonged; but their fortune, from other sources, was such as to make them scarcely secondary to Donwell Abbey itself, in every other kind of consequence; and the Woodhouses had long held a high place in the consideration of the neighbourhood which Mr. Elton had first entered not two years ago, to make his way as he could, without any alliances but in trade, or any thing to recommend him to notice but his situation and his civility.— But he had fancied her in love with him; that evidently must have been his dependence; and after raving a little about the seeming incongruity of gentle manners and a conceited head, Emma was obliged in common honesty to stop and admit that her own behaviour to him had been so complaisant and obliging, so full of courtesy and attention, as (supposing her real motive unperceived) might warrant a man of ordinary observation and delicacy, like Mr. Elton, in fancying himself a very decided favourite. If she had so misinterpreted his feelings, she had little right to wonder that he, with self-interest to blind him, should have mistaken hers.
也许指望他感觉到自己在才华和所有优雅的心灵方面远远不如她，这并不公平。正是由于缺乏这种平等，他才可能意识到这一点。但他必须知道，无论是在运气上还是在影响力上，她都远远优于他。他一定知道伍德豪斯家族已经在哈特菲尔德定居了好几代，哈特菲尔德是一个非常古老的家族的年轻分支，而埃尔顿家族却没什么名气。哈特菲尔德的土地财产当然是微不足道的，只是唐威尔修道院庄园的一个档次，而海布里的其他所有地方都属于唐威尔修道院庄园。但他们从其他来源获得的财富使得他们在所有其他方面都几乎不逊色于唐威尔修道院本身。伍德豪斯家族长期以来一直在埃尔顿先生两年前首次进入的社区中占据重要地位，他想尽可能地走自己的路，除了贸易之外没有任何联盟，也没有任何值得他注意的事情但他的处境和他的礼貌。——但他以为她爱着他；但他以为她爱着他。这显然是他的依靠；爱玛对温文尔雅的举止和自负的头脑看似不协调的行为大发雷霆一番后，出于普遍的诚实，她不得不停下来，承认她自己对他的行为是那么的顺从和乐于助人，那么充满礼貌和关注，就像（假设她的真正动机未被察觉）可能会保证像埃尔顿先生这样具有普通观察力和敏锐性的人会认为自己是一个非常受欢迎的人。如果她如此误解了他的感受，她就没有理由怀疑他会因为自利而蒙蔽双眼，从而误解了她的感受。

The first error and the worst lay at her door. It was foolish, it was wrong, to take so active a part in bringing any two people together. It was adventuring too far, assuming too much, making light of what ought to be serious, a trick of what ought to be simple. She was quite concerned and ashamed, and resolved to do such things no more.
第一个错误，也是最糟糕的错误就在她面前。如此积极地把两个人拉到一起是愚蠢的，也是错误的。它冒险得太过分，假设太多，轻视了应该严肃的事情，把应该简单的事情当作了一个把戏。她很担心，也很羞愧，决心不再做这样的事。

‘Here have I,’ said she, ‘actually talked poor Harriet into being very much attached to this man. She might never have thought of him but for me; and certainly never would have thought of him with hope, if I had not assured her of his attachment, for she is as modest and humble as I used to think him. Oh! that I had been satisfied with persuading her not to accept young Martin. There I was quite right. That was well done of me; but there I should have stopped, and left the rest to time and chance. I was introducing her into good company, and giving her the opportunity of pleasing some one worth having; I ought not to have attempted more. But now, poor girl, her peace is cut up for some time. I have been but half a friend to her; and if she were not to feel this disappointment so very much, I am sure I have not an idea of any body else who would be at all desirable for her;—William Coxe—Oh! no, I could not endure William Coxe— a pert young lawyer.’
“我在这里，”她说，“实际上说服了可怜的哈丽特，让她对这个男人非常依恋。如果不是为了我，她可能永远不会想到他；如果我没有向她保证他对我的依恋，我肯定永远不会对他抱有希望，因为她像我以前认为的那样谦虚和谦虚。哦！我对说服她不要接受年轻的马丁感到满意。我是对的。我做得很好。但我应该就此打住，把剩下的交给时间和机遇。我把她介绍给好的朋友，让她有机会取悦那些值得拥有的人。我不应该尝试更多。但现在，可怜的女孩，她的平静已经被打破了一段时间了。我对她来说只是半个朋友；如果她不感到如此失望，我确信我不知道还有谁会令她满意；——威廉·考克斯——哦！不，我无法忍受威廉·考克斯——一位活泼的年轻律师。

She stopt to blush and laugh at her own relapse, and then resumed a more serious, more dispiriting cogitation upon what had been, and might be, and must be. The distressing explanation she had to make to Harriet, and all that poor Harriet would be suffering, with the awkwardness of future meetings, the difficulties of continuing or discontinuing the acquaintance, of subduing feelings, concealing resentment, and avoiding eclat, were enough to occupy her in most unmirthful reflections some time longer, and she went to bed at last with nothing settled but the conviction of her having blundered most dreadfully.
她不再因为自己的旧病复发而脸红、大笑，然后又开始更加严肃、更加沮丧地思考曾经发生过的、可能发生的和必须发生的事情。她必须向哈丽特做出的令人痛苦的解释，以及可怜的哈丽特将要承受的一切，包括未来见面的尴尬、继续或停止相识、抑制感情、隐藏怨恨和避免欢呼的困难，这些都足以占据她的心。她又陷入了最不愉快的沉思，最后她上床睡觉，除了确信自己犯了一个最可怕的错误之外，什么也没有解决。

To youth and natural cheerfulness like Emma’s, though under temporary gloom at night, the return of day will hardly fail to bring return of spirits. The youth and cheerfulness of morning are in happy analogy, and of powerful operation; and if the distress be not poignant enough to keep the eyes unclosed, they will be sure to open to sensations of softened pain and brighter hope.
对于像艾玛这样年轻、天生开朗的人来说，虽然夜色暂时黯淡，但白天的到来也难免会带来精神上的恢复。早晨的青春和快乐是快乐的比喻，具有强大的作用；如果痛苦还没有严重到让眼睛睁不开的程度，他们一定会感受到痛苦的减轻和希望的光明。

Emma got up on the morrow more disposed for comfort than she had gone to bed, more ready to see alleviations of the evil before her, and to depend on getting tolerably out of it.
第二天起床时，爱玛比上床睡觉时更渴望得到安慰，更愿意看到眼前的不幸得到缓解，并希望能够摆脱困境。

It was a great consolation that Mr. Elton should not be really in love with her, or so particularly amiable as to make it shocking to disappoint him—that Harriet’s nature should not be of that superior sort in which the feelings are most acute and retentive— and that there could be no necessity for any body’s knowing what had passed except the three principals, and especially for her father’s being given a moment’s uneasiness about it.
这是一个很大的安慰，埃尔顿先生不应该真的爱上她，或者太特别和蔼可亲，以至于令人震惊地让他失望——哈丽特的性格不应该是那种感情最敏锐和最难以忘怀的优越性。 ——除了三位校长之外，没有任何人知道发生了什么，尤其是她父亲对此感到一阵不安。

These were very cheering thoughts; and the sight of a great deal of snow on the ground did her further service, for any thing was welcome that might justify their all three being quite asunder at present.
这些都是非常令人振奋的想法。地面上大量的积雪为她提供了进一步的帮助，因为任何可能证明他们三个人目前完全分开的事情都是受欢迎的。

The weather was most favourable for her; though Christmas Day, she could not go to church. Mr. Woodhouse would have been miserable had his daughter attempted it, and she was therefore safe from either exciting or receiving unpleasant and most unsuitable ideas. The ground covered with snow, and the atmosphere in that unsettled state between frost and thaw, which is of all others the most unfriendly for exercise, every morning beginning in rain or snow, and every evening setting in to freeze, she was for many days a most honourable prisoner. No intercourse with Harriet possible but by note; no church for her on Sunday any more than on Christmas Day; and no need to find excuses for Mr. Elton’s absenting himself.
天气对她来说是最有利的。尽管圣诞节，她还是不能去教堂。如果他的女儿尝试这样做，伍德豪斯先生会很痛苦，因此她不会感到兴奋或收到不愉快和最不合适的想法。地面上覆盖着积雪，空气处于霜冻和融雪之间不稳定的状态，这是最不适合锻炼的，每天早上开始下雨或下雪，每天晚上都结冰，她已经连续好几天了。一个最光荣的囚犯。除非通过笔记，否则不可能与哈里特进行交流；周日和圣诞节一样，她也不去教堂。没有必要为埃尔顿先生的缺席找借口。

It was weather which might fairly confine every body at home; and though she hoped and believed him to be really taking comfort in some society or other, it was very pleasant to have her father so well satisfied with his being all alone in his own house, too wise to stir out; and to hear him say to Mr. Knightley, whom no weather could keep entirely from them,—
这种天气可能会让每个人都呆在家里。尽管她希望并相信他在某种社会中确实得到了安慰，但她的父亲对他独自一人呆在自己的家里感到非常满意，他太明智了，没有打扰，这还是很令人高兴的。听到他对奈特利先生说，无论天气如何，他们都无法完全接近奈特利先生——

‘Ah! Mr. Knightley, why do not you stay at home like poor Mr. Elton?’
'啊！奈特利先生，你为什么不像可怜的埃尔顿先生那样呆在家里呢？

These days of confinement would have been, but for her private perplexities, remarkably comfortable, as such seclusion exactly suited her brother, whose feelings must always be of great importance to his companions; and he had, besides, so thoroughly cleared off his ill-humour at Randalls, that his amiableness never failed him during the rest of his stay at Hartfield. He was always agreeable and obliging, and speaking pleasantly of every body. But with all the hopes of cheerfulness, and all the present comfort of delay, there was still such an evil hanging over her in the hour of explanation with Harriet, as made it impossible for Emma to be ever perfectly at ease.
如果不是因为她个人的困惑，这些日子的监禁本来会非常舒适，因为这样的隔离完全适合她的兄弟，他的感情对他的同伴来说一定是非常重要的；此外，他已经彻底消除了兰德尔斯的坏脾气，因此在哈特菲尔德的其余时间里，他的和蔼可亲从未让他失望。他总是和蔼可亲、乐于助人，对每一个人都说得和蔼可亲。尽管满怀欢乐的希望，以及目前延迟的所有安慰，在与哈丽特解释的那一刻，仍然有一种邪恶笼罩着她，使爱玛不可能完全放松。

Chapter XVII
第十七章

Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley were not detained long at Hartfield. The weather soon improved enough for those to move who must move; and Mr. Woodhouse having, as usual, tried to persuade his daughter to stay behind with all her children, was obliged to see the whole party set off, and return to his lamentations over the destiny of poor Isabella;—which poor Isabella, passing her life with those she doated on, full of their merits, blind to their faults, and always innocently busy, might have been a model of right feminine happiness.
约翰·奈特利夫妇在哈特菲尔德并没有被拘留多久。天气很快就好转了，那些必须搬家的人可以搬家了。伍德豪斯先生像往常一样，试图说服他的女儿和她所有的孩子们留下来，不得不目送整个队伍出发，然后又继续哀悼可怜的伊莎贝拉的命运；——可怜的伊莎贝拉，路过她与所爱之人的生活，充满了他们的优点，对他们的缺点视而不见，总是天真地忙碌，也许是女性幸福的典范。

The evening of the very day on which they went brought a note from Mr. Elton to Mr. Woodhouse, a long, civil, ceremonious note, to say, with Mr. Elton’s best compliments, ‘that he was proposing to leave Highbury the following morning in his way to Bath; where, in compliance with the pressing entreaties of some friends, he had engaged to spend a few weeks, and very much regretted the impossibility he was under, from various circumstances of weather and business, of taking a personal leave of Mr. Woodhouse, of whose friendly civilities he should ever retain a grateful sense— and had Mr. Woodhouse any commands, should be happy to attend to them.’
他们去的那天晚上，埃尔顿先生给伍德豪斯先生带来了一张便条，这是一封长长的、礼貌的、隆重的便条，上面写着埃尔顿先生最诚挚的致意，“他打算在以下时间离开海布里”早上去巴斯的路上；应一些朋友的恳求，他本来打算在那里待上几个星期，但由于天气和生意的种种原因，他无法向伍德豪斯先生请假，他对此感到非常遗憾。他应该永远对他的友好礼貌保持感激之情，并且如果伍德豪斯先生有任何命令，他应该很乐意执行。

Emma was most agreeably surprized.—Mr. Elton’s absence just at this time was the very thing to be desired. She admired him for contriving it, though not able to give him much credit for the manner in which it was announced. Resentment could not have been more plainly spoken than in a civility to her father, from which she was so pointedly excluded. She had not even a share in his opening compliments.—Her name was not mentioned;— and there was so striking a change in all this, and such an ill-judged solemnity of leave-taking in his graceful acknowledgments, as she thought, at first, could not escape her father’s suspicion.
艾玛感到非常惊讶。——先生。埃尔顿此时缺席正是我们所希望的。她钦佩他的设计，尽管对他宣布这一计划的方式并没有给予太多的信任。对她父亲的礼貌是最能表达怨恨的，而她却被明确排除在外。她甚至没有参与他的开场致意。——没有提到她的名字；——这一切发生了如此惊人的变化，他优雅的致谢中表现出如此错误的告别庄严，正如她所想的那样，起初，未能逃过父亲的怀疑。

It did, however.—Her father was quite taken up with the surprize of so sudden a journey, and his fears that Mr. Elton might never get safely to the end of it, and saw nothing extraordinary in his language. It was a very useful note, for it supplied them with fresh matter for thought and conversation during the rest of their lonely evening. Mr. Woodhouse talked over his alarms, and Emma was in spirits to persuade them away with all her usual promptitude.
然而，确实如此。——她的父亲对如此突然的旅程感到非常惊讶，他担心埃尔顿先生可能永远无法安全地到达终点，并且在他的语言中没有看到任何异常。这是一张非常有用的便条，因为它为他们在孤独的夜晚剩下的时间里提供了新的思考和谈话内容。伍德豪斯先生谈论了他的警报，艾玛兴高采烈地以她一贯的敏捷态度劝说他们离开。

She now resolved to keep Harriet no longer in the dark. She had reason to believe her nearly recovered from her cold, and it was desirable that she should have as much time as possible for getting the better of her other complaint before the gentleman’s return. She went to Mrs. Goddard’s accordingly the very next day, to undergo the necessary penance of communication; and a severe one it was.— She had to destroy all the hopes which she had been so industriously feeding—to appear in the ungracious character of the one preferred— and acknowledge herself grossly mistaken and mis-judging in all her ideas on one subject, all her observations, all her convictions, all her prophecies for the last six weeks.
她现在决心不再让哈丽特蒙在鼓里。她有理由相信自己的感冒已经快好了，而且在那位绅士回来之前，她应该有尽可能多的时间来克服她的其他抱怨。第二天，她就去戈达德夫人家，进行必要的沟通忏悔。这是一个严重的问题。——她必须摧毁她一直辛勤培育的所有希望——以表现出中意者的无礼性格——并承认自己在一个问题上的所有想法都犯了严重错误和错误判断。 ，她所有的观察，她所有的信念，她过去六周的所有预言。

The confession completely renewed her first shame—and the sight of Harriet’s tears made her think that she should never be in charity with herself again.
这次坦白完全让她第一次感到羞耻——看到哈丽特的眼泪让她觉得自己永远不应该再对自己施恩。

Harriet bore the intelligence very well—blaming nobody— and in every thing testifying such an ingenuousness of disposition and lowly opinion of herself, as must appear with particular advantage at that moment to her friend.
哈丽特的聪明才智非常出色——不责怪任何人——并且在每一件事上都证明了她的天真性情和对自己的卑微评价，这在她的朋友眼中一定显得特别有利。

Emma was in the humour to value simplicity and modesty to the utmost; and all that was amiable, all that ought to be attaching, seemed on Harriet’s side, not her own. Harriet did not consider herself as having any thing to complain of. The affection of such a man as Mr. Elton would have been too great a distinction.— She never could have deserved him—and nobody but so partial and kind a friend as Miss Woodhouse would have thought it possible.
艾玛很幽默，极其重视简单和谦虚。所有和蔼可亲的东西，所有值得依恋的东西，似乎都属于哈丽特这边，而不是她自己。哈丽特认为自己没有什么可抱怨的。像埃尔顿先生这样的男人的感情实在是太了不起了。——她永远配不上他——除了伍德豪斯小姐这样偏心、善良的朋友之外，没有人会认为这是可能的。

Her tears fell abundantly—but her grief was so truly artless, that no dignity could have made it more respectable in Emma’s eyes— and she listened to her and tried to console her with all her heart and understanding—really for the time convinced that Harriet was the superior creature of the two—and that to resemble her would be more for her own welfare and happiness than all that genius or intelligence could do.
她泪流满面——但她的悲痛实在是太天真了，在艾玛眼里，没有任何尊严可以使它更受人尊敬——她听着她的话，并试图用她的全心全意和理解来安慰她——当时她真的相信哈丽特是两者中最优秀的一个——与她相似比天才或智慧所能做的一切更能促进她自己的福利和幸福。

It was rather too late in the day to set about being simple-minded and ignorant; but she left her with every previous resolution confirmed of being humble and discreet, and repressing imagination all the rest of her life. Her second duty now, inferior only to her father’s claims, was to promote Harriet’s comfort, and endeavour to prove her own affection in some better method than by match-making. She got her to Hartfield, and shewed her the most unvarying kindness, striving to occupy and amuse her, and by books and conversation, to drive Mr. Elton from her thoughts.
现在开始变得头脑简单、无知已经太晚了。但她留给她的每一个决心都证实了她要谦虚谨慎，并在余生中压抑想象力。她现在的第二个职责，仅次于她父亲的要求，是促进哈丽特的舒适，并努力以某种比媒合更好的方法来证明她自己的感情。她把她带到哈特菲尔德，对她表现出最不变的善意，努力吸引她的注意力，让她开心，并通过书籍和谈话，将埃尔顿先生从她的思绪中赶走。

Time, she knew, must be allowed for this being thoroughly done; and she could suppose herself but an indifferent judge of such matters in general, and very inadequate to sympathise in an attachment to Mr. Elton in particular; but it seemed to her reasonable that at Harriet’s age, and with the entire extinction of all hope, such a progress might be made towards a state of composure by the time of Mr. Elton’s return, as to allow them all to meet again in the common routine of acquaintance, without any danger of betraying sentiments or increasing them.
她知道，必须留出时间才能彻底完成这件事。她可以认为自己对这些事情一般来说只是一个冷漠的判断，而且非常不足以同情埃尔顿先生的特别依恋。但在她看来，在哈丽特这个年纪，所有的希望都已破灭，到埃尔顿先生回来​​时，他们可能会在平静的状态上取得这样的进展，以便让他们在家里再次见面，这似乎是合理的。熟悉的惯例，没有任何背叛感情或加深感情的危险。

Harriet did think him all perfection, and maintained the non-existence of any body equal to him in person or goodness—and did, in truth, prove herself more resolutely in love than Emma had foreseen; but yet it appeared to her so natural, so inevitable to strive against an inclination of that sort unrequited, that she could not comprehend its continuing very long in equal force.
哈丽特确实认为他是完美的，并坚持认为不存在任何人可以在人格或善良上与他平等——而且事实上，她确实证明了自己比艾玛预见到的更坚定的爱情；然而，在她看来，与这种单方面的倾向作斗争是那么自然，那么不可避免，以至于她无法理解这种倾向会以同样的力量持续很长时间。

If Mr. Elton, on his return, made his own indifference as evident and indubitable as she could not doubt he would anxiously do, she could not imagine Harriet’s persisting to place her happiness in the sight or the recollection of him.
如果埃尔顿先生回来​​后表现出他自己的冷漠态度，就像她毫不怀疑他会焦急地那样做一样明显和不容置疑，她就无法想象哈丽特坚持把她的幸福放在他的视线或回忆中。

Their being fixed, so absolutely fixed, in the same place, was bad for each, for all three. Not one of them had the power of removal, or of effecting any material change of society. They must encounter each other, and make the best of it.
他们被固定在同一个地方，如此绝对地固定，对每个人、对三个人来说都是不好的。他们中没有一个人拥有驱逐的权力，或者对社会造成任何实质性改变的权力。他们必须相遇，并充分利用彼此。

Harriet was farther unfortunate in the tone of her companions at Mrs. Goddard’s; Mr. Elton being the adoration of all the teachers and great girls in the school; and it must be at Hartfield only that she could have any chance of hearing him spoken of with cooling moderation or repellent truth. Where the wound had been given, there must the cure be found if anywhere; and Emma felt that, till she saw her in the way of cure, there could be no true peace for herself.
戈达德夫人家的同伴们用语气表达了哈丽特的不幸。埃尔顿先生受到学校所有老师和优秀女孩的崇拜；也只有在哈特菲尔德，她才有机会听到人们以冷静的温和态度或令人厌恶的真相谈论他。哪里有伤口，就必须找到治愈的方法。艾玛觉得，除非她能以治愈的方式看到她，否则她自己不可能有真正的平静。

Chapter XVIII
第十八章

Mr. Frank Churchill did not come. When the time proposed drew near, Mrs. Weston’s fears were justified in the arrival of a letter of excuse. For the present, he could not be spared, to his ‘very great mortification and regret; but still he looked forward with the hope of coming to Randalls at no distant period.’
弗兰克·丘吉尔先生没有来。当提议的时间临近时，韦斯顿夫人的担心因一封借口信的到来而得到了证实。目前，他无法幸免，这让他“感到非常羞愧和遗憾”；但他仍然期待着在不久的将来能够来到兰德尔斯。

Mrs. Weston was exceedingly disappointed—much more disappointed, in fact, than her husband, though her dependence on seeing the young man had been so much more sober: but a sanguine temper, though for ever expecting more good than occurs, does not always pay for its hopes by any proportionate depression. It soon flies over the present failure, and begins to hope again. For half an hour Mr. Weston was surprized and sorry; but then he began to perceive that Frank’s coming two or three months later would be a much better plan; better time of year; better weather; and that he would be able, without any doubt, to stay considerably longer with them than if he had come sooner.
韦斯顿夫人非常失望——事实上，比她丈夫更失望，尽管她对见到这个年轻人的依赖要清醒得多：但乐观的脾气，虽然永远期待比发生的事情更多的好处，但并不总是如此。任何相应的萧条都会为其希望付出代价。它很快就超越了目前的失败，并再次开始希望。半个小时以来，韦斯顿先生既惊讶又抱歉。但后来他开始意识到弗兰克两三个月后到来将是一个更好的计划；一年中更好的时间；更好的天气；毫无疑问，如果他早点来的话，他就能和他们呆得更久。

These feelings rapidly restored his comfort, while Mrs. Weston, of a more apprehensive disposition, foresaw nothing but a repetition of excuses and delays; and after all her concern for what her husband was to suffer, suffered a great deal more herself.
这些感觉很快使他恢复了舒适，而韦斯顿夫人则更加忧心忡忡，她预见到除了重复的借口和拖延之外什么也没有。毕竟，她担心丈夫要受的苦，但她自己却承受了更多的痛苦。

Emma was not at this time in a state of spirits to care really about Mr. Frank Churchill’s not coming, except as a disappointment at Randalls. The acquaintance at present had no charm for her. She wanted, rather, to be quiet, and out of temptation; but still, as it was desirable that she should appear, in general, like her usual self, she took care to express as much interest in the circumstance, and enter as warmly into Mr. and Mrs. Weston’s disappointment, as might naturally belong to their friendship.
艾玛此时的心情并没有真正关心弗兰克·丘吉尔先生的不来，除非是对兰德尔斯感到失望。现在的熟人对她来说没有任何吸引力。相反，她想保持安静，远离诱惑。但尽管如此，由于她总体上应该表现得像平时一样，所以她小心翼翼地表现出对这种情况的尽可能多的兴趣，并尽可能热情地融入韦斯顿先生和夫人的失望之中，这可能是自然而然的事情。他们的友谊。

She was the first to announce it to Mr. Knightley; and exclaimed quite as much as was necessary, (or, being acting a part, perhaps rather more,) at the conduct of the Churchills, in keeping him away. She then proceeded to say a good deal more than she felt, of the advantage of such an addition to their confined society in Surry; the pleasure of looking at somebody new; the gala-day to Highbury entire, which the sight of him would have made; and ending with reflections on the Churchills again, found herself directly involved in a disagreement with Mr. Knightley; and, to her great amusement, perceived that she was taking the other side of the question from her real opinion, and making use of Mrs. Weston’s arguments against herself.
她是第一个向奈特利先生宣布这一消息的人。他对丘吉尔一家的行为大喊大叫（或者说，参与其中，也许更多），不让他走。然后，她谈到了在萨里这个封闭的社会中加入这样一个成员的好处，这比她想象的要多得多。结识新朋友的乐趣；整个海布里的庆祝活动，如果看到他，就会变得如此；最后再次反思丘吉尔夫妇，发现自己直接卷入了与奈特利先生的分歧中。令她感到非常有趣的是，她发现自己从自己的真实观点出发，站在了问题的另一面，并利用了韦斯顿夫人的论据来反对自己。

‘The Churchills are very likely in fault,’ said Mr. Knightley, coolly; ‘but I dare say he might come if he would.’
“丘吉尔家族很可能有错，”奈特利先生冷静地说。 “但我敢说，如果他愿意的话，他可能会来。”

‘I do not know why you should say so. He wishes exceedingly to come; but his uncle and aunt will not spare him.’
‘我不知道你为什么要这么说。他非常愿意来；但他的叔叔和婶婶不会放过他的。

‘I cannot believe that he has not the power of coming, if he made a point of it. It is too unlikely, for me to believe it without proof.’
“如果他明确表示，我不敢相信他没有能力来。这太不可能了，没有证据我就不会相信。

‘How odd you are! What has Mr. Frank Churchill done, to make you suppose him such an unnatural creature?’
‘你真奇怪！弗兰克·丘吉尔先生做了什么，让你认为他是一个如此不自然的人？

‘I am not supposing him at all an unnatural creature, in suspecting that he may have learnt to be above his connexions, and to care very little for any thing but his own pleasure, from living with those who have always set him the example of it. It is a great deal more natural than one could wish, that a young man, brought up by those who are proud, luxurious, and selfish, should be proud, luxurious, and selfish too. If Frank Churchill had wanted to see his father, he would have contrived it between September and January. A man at his age—what is he?—three or four-and-twenty—cannot be without the means of doing as much as that. It is impossible.’
“我根本不认为他是一个不自然的生物，因为我怀疑他可能已经学会了超越他的亲人，并且从与那些一直为他树立榜样的人一起生活中，除了自己的快乐之外很少关心任何事情。它。一个年轻人在那些骄傲、奢侈和自私的人的教育下长大，他也应该骄傲、奢侈和自私，这比人们所希望的要自然得多。如果弗兰克·丘吉尔想见他的父亲，他会在九月到一月之间安排。一个人在他这个年纪——他是什么？——三岁或四岁，二十岁——不可能没有办法做那么多事情。是不可能的。'

‘That’s easily said, and easily felt by you, who have always been your own master. You are the worst judge in the world, Mr. Knightley, of the difficulties of dependence. You do not know what it is to have tempers to manage.’
‘这句话说起来很容易，也很容易被你感受到，因为你一直是自己的主人。奈特利先生，对于依赖的困难，你是世界上最糟糕的判断者。你不知道什么是要控制脾气。

‘It is not to be conceived that a man of three or four-and-twenty should not have liberty of mind or limb to that amount. He cannot want money—he cannot want leisure. We know, on the contrary, that he has so much of both, that he is glad to get rid of them at the idlest haunts in the kingdom. We hear of him for ever at some watering-place or other. A little while ago, he was at Weymouth. This proves that he can leave the Churchills.’
“不能想象一个三岁或四岁、二十岁的人不应该有那么大的思想或肢体自由。他不能想要金钱——他不能想要闲暇。相反，我们知道他两者兼而有之，因此他很高兴在王国最闲的地方摆脱它们。我们总是在某个水源地或其他地方听说过他。不久前，他在韦茅斯。这证明他可以离开丘吉尔家族。”

‘Yes, sometimes he can.’
“是的，有时他可以。”

‘And those times are whenever he thinks it worth his while; whenever there is any temptation of pleasure.’
“每当他认为值得花时间的时候，他就会这么做；”每当有任何快乐的诱惑时。

‘It is very unfair to judge of any body’s conduct, without an intimate knowledge of their situation. Nobody, who has not been in the interior of a family, can say what the difficulties of any individual of that family may be. We ought to be acquainted with Enscombe, and with Mrs. Churchill’s temper, before we pretend to decide upon what her nephew can do. He may, at times, be able to do a great deal more than he can at others.’
“在不深入了解任何人的处境的情况下判断他们的行为是非常不公平的。没有去过一个家庭内部的人，谁也无法说出这个家庭中的任何一个人可能面临的困难。在我们假装决定她的侄子能做什么之前，我们应该熟悉恩斯库姆和丘吉尔夫人的脾气。有时，他可能比其他人能做更多的事情。

‘There is one thing, Emma, which a man can always do, if he chuses, and that is, his duty; not by manoeuvring and finessing, but by vigour and resolution. It is Frank Churchill’s duty to pay this attention to his father. He knows it to be so, by his promises and messages; but if he wished to do it, it might be done. A man who felt rightly would say at once, simply and resolutely, to Mrs. Churchill— ‘Every sacrifice of mere pleasure you will always find me ready to make to your convenience; but I must go and see my father immediately. I know he would be hurt by my failing in such a mark of respect to him on the present occasion. I shall, therefore, set off to-morrow.’— If he would say so to her at once, in the tone of decision becoming a man, there would be no opposition made to his going.’
“有一件事，艾玛，一个人只要愿意，总是可以做的，那就是他的责任；不是靠策略和技巧，而是靠活力和决心。弗兰克·丘吉尔有责任关注他的父亲。通过他的承诺和信息，他知道事实如此；但如果他想这么做，就可以做到。一个感觉正确的人会立即简单而坚决地对丘吉尔夫人说：“你会发现我随时准备为你的方便做出一切纯粹快乐的牺牲；”但我必须立即去看我的父亲。我知道他会因为我这次未能对他表现出如此尊重而受到伤害。因此，我明天就出发。”——如果他立刻以决定成为男人的语气对她这么说，那么他的出发就不会有人反对了。

‘No,’ said Emma, laughing; ‘but perhaps there might be some made to his coming back again. Such language for a young man entirely dependent, to use!—Nobody but you, Mr. Knightley, would imagine it possible. But you have not an idea of what is requisite in situations directly opposite to your own. Mr. Frank Churchill to be making such a speech as that to the uncle and aunt, who have brought him up, and are to provide for him!—Standing up in the middle of the room, I suppose, and speaking as loud as he could!—How can you imagine such conduct practicable?’
“不，”艾玛笑着说。 “但也许他再次回来可能有一些原因。这种语言适合一个完全依赖他人的年轻人使用！——除了你，奈特利先生，没有人会想象这是可能的。但你不知道在与你自己的情况直接相反的情况下需要什么。弗兰克·丘吉尔先生要向抚养他长大并供养他的叔叔婶婶发表这样的演讲！——我想，他站在房间中央，说话的声音和他一样大可以！——你怎么能想象这种行为可行呢？

‘Depend upon it, Emma, a sensible man would find no difficulty in it. He would feel himself in the right; and the declaration—made, of course, as a man of sense would make it, in a proper manner— would do him more good, raise him higher, fix his interest stronger with the people he depended on, than all that a line of shifts and expedients can ever do. Respect would be added to affection. They would feel that they could trust him; that the nephew who had done rightly by his father, would do rightly by them; for they know, as well as he does, as well as all the world must know, that he ought to pay this visit to his father; and while meanly exerting their power to delay it, are in their hearts not thinking the better of him for submitting to their whims. Respect for right conduct is felt by every body. If he would act in this sort of manner, on principle, consistently, regularly, their little minds would bend to his.’
“相信这一点，艾玛，一个明智的人不会觉得这有什么困难。他会觉得自己是对的；当然，这一声明——一个有理智的人会以适当的方式做出的声明——会给他带来更多好处，提升他的地位，让他对他所依赖的人产生更强烈的兴趣，这比一系列的声明要好得多。转变和权宜之计永远可以做到。尊重会添加到感情中。他们会觉得可以信任他；侄子曾善待他的父亲，也会善待他们；因为他们和他一样知道，全世界都知道，他应该去拜访他的父亲。他们虽然卑鄙地运用自己的力量来拖延这件事，但心里并没有因为他屈服于他们的一时兴起而认为他更好。每个人都感受到对正确行为的尊重。如果他按照原则、始终如一、定期地以这种方式行事，他们的小心思就会屈服于他的。

‘I rather doubt that. You are very fond of bending little minds; but where little minds belong to rich people in authority, I think they have a knack of swelling out, till they are quite as unmanageable as great ones. I can imagine, that if you, as you are, Mr. Knightley, were to be transported and placed all at once in Mr. Frank Churchill’s situation, you would be able to say and do just what you have been recommending for him; and it might have a very good effect. The Churchills might not have a word to say in return; but then, you would have no habits of early obedience and long observance to break through. To him who has, it might not be so easy to burst forth at once into perfect independence, and set all their claims on his gratitude and regard at nought. He may have as strong a sense of what would be right, as you can have, without being so equal, under particular circumstances, to act up to it.’
“我对此相当怀疑。你非常喜欢弯曲小心思；但是当权势富人的头脑狭隘时，我认为他们有一种膨胀的本领，直到他们像伟人一样难以管理。我可以想象，如果您，奈特利先生，一下子被转移并置于弗兰克·丘吉尔先生的处境中，您将能够说和做您一直为他推荐的事情；而且可能会有很好的效果。丘吉尔一家可能无话可说；但那样的话，你就没有早日服从、长期遵守的习惯可以突破。对于拥有这种能力的人来说，要立即完全独立并把他们所有的要求都放在他的感激和尊重上可能不是那么容易。他可能对什么是正确的有强烈的认识，就像你一样，在特定情况下，虽然没有那么平等，但也能采取行动。

‘Then it would not be so strong a sense. If it failed to produce equal exertion, it could not be an equal conviction.’
‘那么这种感觉就不会那么强烈了。如果它不能产生同等的努力，就不可能有同等的信念。

‘Oh, the difference of situation and habit! I wish you would try to understand what an amiable young man may be likely to feel in directly opposing those, whom as child and boy he has been looking up to all his life.’
‘哦，情况和习惯的差异！我希望你能试着理解一个和蔼可亲的年轻人在直接反对那些他一生都仰慕的人时可能会有什么感受。

‘Our amiable young man is a very weak young man, if this be the first occasion of his carrying through a resolution to do right against the will of others. It ought to have been a habit with him by this time, of following his duty, instead of consulting expediency. I can allow for the fears of the child, but not of the man. As he became rational, he ought to have roused himself and shaken off all that was unworthy in their authority. He ought to have opposed the first attempt on their side to make him slight his father. Had he begun as he ought, there would have been no difficulty now.’
“我们可爱的年轻人是一个非常软弱的年轻人，如果这是他第一次违背别人的意愿去做正确的事情的话。”履行自己的职责，而不是寻求权宜之计，这应该已经成为他此时的习惯。我可以考虑孩子的恐惧，但不能考虑男人的恐惧。当他变得理性的时候，他应该醒悟过来，摆脱一切不配他们权威的东西。当他们第一次试图让他轻视他的父亲时，他就应该反对。如果他按应有的方式开始的话，现在就不会有任何困难了。

‘We shall never agree about him,’ cried Emma; ‘but that is nothing extraordinary. I have not the least idea of his being a weak young man: I feel sure that he is not. Mr. Weston would not be blind to folly, though in his own son; but he is very likely to have a more yielding, complying, mild disposition than would suit your notions of man’s perfection. I dare say he has; and though it may cut him off from some advantages, it will secure him many others.’
“我们永远不会就他达成一致，”艾玛喊道。 '但这没什么特别的。我一点也不知道他是一个软弱的年轻人：我确信他不是。韦斯顿先生不会对自己儿子的愚蠢行为视而不见。但他很可能有一种更顺从、更顺从、更温和的性情，这不符合你对人的完美的看法。我敢说他有；尽管这可能会剥夺他的一些优势，但也会为他带来许多其他优势。

‘Yes; all the advantages of sitting still when he ought to move, and of leading a life of mere idle pleasure, and fancying himself extremely expert in finding excuses for it. He can sit down and write a fine flourishing letter, full of professions and falsehoods, and persuade himself that he has hit upon the very best method in the world of preserving peace at home and preventing his father’s having any right to complain. His letters disgust me.’
'是的;当他应该活动时静静地坐着，过着纯粹的闲散享乐的生活，并自以为非常擅长为它寻找借口，这一切都有好处。他可以坐下来写一封华丽丽的信，里面充满了职业和谎言，并说服自己，他已经找到了维护家庭和平并阻止他父亲有权利抱怨的世界上最好的方法。他的信让我感到恶心。

‘Your feelings are singular. They seem to satisfy every body else.’
‘你的感受很独特。他们似乎让其他所有人都满意。”

‘I suspect they do not satisfy Mrs. Weston. They hardly can satisfy a woman of her good sense and quick feelings: standing in a mother’s place, but without a mother’s affection to blind her. It is on her account that attention to Randalls is doubly due, and she must doubly feel the omission. Had she been a person of consequence herself, he would have come I dare say; and it would not have signified whether he did or no. Can you think your friend behindhand in these sort of considerations? Do you suppose she does not often say all this to herself? No, Emma, your amiable young man can be amiable only in French, not in English. He may be very ‘aimable,’ have very good manners, and be very agreeable; but he can have no English delicacy towards the feelings of other people: nothing really amiable about him.’
“我怀疑它们不能令韦斯顿夫人满意。”它们很难满足一个具有良好判断力和敏锐情感的女人：站在母亲的位置，但没有母亲的爱蒙蔽了她。正是因为她的原因，对兰德尔斯的关注才更加值得，她也必须加倍地感受到这种疏忽。如果她本人是一个有影响力的人，我敢说他就会来。这并不能表明他是否这样做。你能认为你的朋友在这些方面落后吗？你认为她不常对自己说这一切吗？不，艾玛，你的和蔼可亲的年轻人只能用法语表示和蔼可亲，而不能用英语表示和蔼可亲。他可能非常“有爱心”，很有礼貌，而且非常和蔼可亲；但他对别人的感受却没有英国人的体贴：他没有什么真正和蔼可亲的地方。

‘You seem determined to think ill of him.’
“你似乎铁了心要想他的坏话。”

‘Me!—not at all,’ replied Mr. Knightley, rather displeased; ‘I do not want to think ill of him. I should be as ready to acknowledge his merits as any other man; but I hear of none, except what are merely personal; that he is well-grown and good-looking, with smooth, plausible manners.’
“我！——一点也不，”奈特利先生相当不高兴地回答道。 “我不想对他产生不好的印象。我应该像其他人一样准备承认他的优点；但除了个人的事情外，我没有听到任何消息。他长大了，相貌英俊，举止圆滑、可信。

‘Well, if he have nothing else to recommend him, he will be a treasure at Highbury. We do not often look upon fine young men, well-bred and agreeable. We must not be nice and ask for all the virtues into the bargain. Cannot you imagine, Mr. Knightley, what a sensation his coming will produce? There will be but one subject throughout the parishes of Donwell and Highbury; but one interest— one object of curiosity; it will be all Mr. Frank Churchill; we shall think and speak of nobody else.’
“好吧，如果他没有什么可以推荐的，他将成为海布里的瑰宝。我们通常不会看到有教养、和蔼可亲的优秀年轻人。我们决不能表现得友善并要求讨价还价中包含所有美德。奈特利先生，你不能想象他的到来会产生怎样的轰动吗？唐威尔和海布里的整个教区将只有一个科目；但只有一种兴趣——一种好奇的对象；一切都将是弗兰克·丘吉尔先生；我们不会想到和谈论任何其他人。

‘You will excuse my being so much over-powered. If I find him conversable, I shall be glad of his acquaintance; but if he is only a chattering coxcomb, he will not occupy much of my time or thoughts.’
‘你会原谅我的力量如此之大。如果我发现他很健谈，我会很高兴认识他；但如果他只是一个喋喋不休的花花公子，他就不会占用我太多的时间或思想。

‘My idea of him is, that he can adapt his conversation to the taste of every body, and has the power as well as the wish of being universally agreeable. To you, he will talk of farming; to me, of drawing or music; and so on to every body, having that general information on all subjects which will enable him to follow the lead, or take the lead, just as propriety may require, and to speak extremely well on each; that is my idea of him.’
“我对他的看法是，他可以使自己的谈话适应每个人的口味，并且有能力和愿望让所有人都满意。”对你，他会谈论农事；对我来说，绘画或音乐；以此类推，对每个人都有关于所有主题的一般信息，这将使他能够跟随领导，或带头，正如礼节所要求的那样，并在每个主题上都讲得非常好；这就是我对他的看法。

‘And mine,’ said Mr. Knightley warmly, ‘is, that if he turn out any thing like it, he will be the most insufferable fellow breathing! What! at three-and-twenty to be the king of his company—the great man— the practised politician, who is to read every body’s character, and make every body’s talents conduce to the display of his own superiority; to be dispensing his flatteries around, that he may make all appear like fools compared with himself! My dear Emma, your own good sense could not endure such a puppy when it came to the point.’
“而我的想法是，”奈特利先生热情地说，“如果他做出这样的事情，他将成为最令人难以忍受的家伙！”什么！三岁二十岁就成为公司的国王——伟人——老练的政治家，他要读懂每个人的性格，让每个人的才能有助于展示自己的优势；到处阿谀奉承，让所有人与他相比都显得愚不可及！我亲爱的艾玛，到了关键时刻，你自己的理智无法忍受这样一只小狗。

‘I will say no more about him,’ cried Emma, ‘you turn every thing to evil. We are both prejudiced; you against, I for him; and we have no chance of agreeing till he is really here.’
“我不会再谈论他了，”艾玛喊道，“你把一切都变成了邪恶。”我们都有偏见；你反对，我赞成；在他真的来之前我们没有机会达成一致。

‘Prejudiced! I am not prejudiced.’
‘有偏见！我没有偏见。

‘But I am very much, and without being at all ashamed of it. My love for Mr. and Mrs. Weston gives me a decided prejudice in his favour.’
“但我非常喜欢，而且一点也不为此感到羞耻。我对韦斯顿先生和夫人的爱使我对他抱有明显的偏见。

‘He is a person I never think of from one month’s end to another,’ said Mr. Knightley, with a degree of vexation, which made Emma immediately talk of something else, though she could not comprehend why he should be angry.
“我从月末到月末都没有想起过他。”奈特利先生带着一定程度的烦恼说道，这让艾玛立即说起了别的话，尽管她不明白他为什么要生气。

To take a dislike to a young man, only because he appeared to be of a different disposition from himself, was unworthy the real liberality of mind which she was always used to acknowledge in him; for with all the high opinion of himself, which she had often laid to his charge, she had never before for a moment supposed it could make him unjust to the merit of another.
仅仅因为一个年轻人的性情与自己不同而厌恶他，是不值得她一贯承认他心胸宽广的。因为她经常指责他对自己评价很高，但她以前从来没有想过这会让他对别人的优点不公正。

Volume II
第二卷

Chapter I
第一章

Emma and Harriet had been walking together one morning, and, in Emma’s opinion, had been talking enough of Mr. Elton for that day. She could not think that Harriet’s solace or her own sins required more; and she was therefore industriously getting rid of the subject as they returned;—but it burst out again when she thought she had succeeded, and after speaking some time of what the poor must suffer in winter, and receiving no other answer than a very plaintive— ‘Mr. Elton is so good to the poor!’ she found something else must be done.
一天早上，艾玛和哈丽特一起散步，在艾玛看来，那天关于埃尔顿先生的话题已经说得够多了。她认为哈丽特的安慰或她自己的罪孽需要更多的安慰。因此，当他们回来时，她努力地摆脱这个话题；但是当她以为自己已经成功了，并且在谈论了穷人在冬天必须遭受的痛苦之后，除了一个非常哀伤的回答之外，没有得到其他答案，这个话题又爆发了。 - '先生。埃尔顿对穷人太好了！”她发现必须做点别的事情。

They were just approaching the house where lived Mrs. and Miss Bates. She determined to call upon them and seek safety in numbers. There was always sufficient reason for such an attention; Mrs. and Miss Bates loved to be called on, and she knew she was considered by the very few who presumed ever to see imperfection in her, as rather negligent in that respect, and as not contributing what she ought to the stock of their scanty comforts.
他们正接近贝茨夫人和贝茨小姐居住的房子。她决定向他们求助并寻求数量上的安全。这种关注总是有充分的理由的。贝茨夫人和贝茨小姐喜欢被人点名，她知道极少数人认为她在这方面相当疏忽，认为她在这方面相当疏忽，并且没有为他们稀缺的股票做出她应有的贡献。舒适。

She had had many a hint from Mr. Knightley and some from her own heart, as to her deficiency—but none were equal to counteract the persuasion of its being very disagreeable,—a waste of time—tiresome women— and all the horror of being in danger of falling in with the second-rate and third-rate of Highbury, who were calling on them for ever, and therefore she seldom went near them. But now she made the sudden resolution of not passing their door without going in—observing, as she proposed it to Harriet, that, as well as she could calculate, they were just now quite safe from any letter from Jane Fairfax.
关于她的缺陷，她从奈特利先生那里得到了很多暗示，还有一些来自她自己的内心——但没有一个能够抵消这种说服力，因为它非常令人不快——浪费时间——令人厌烦的女人——以及所有的恐惧。她有可能会和海布里的二流、三流的人混在一起，他们永远都在拜访他们，所以她很少靠近他们。但现在她突然决定，不进去就不经过他们的门——当她向哈丽特提议时，她发现，据她所知，他们现在很安全，不会收到简·费尔法克斯的任何来信。

The house belonged to people in business. Mrs. and Miss Bates occupied the drawing-room floor; and there, in the very moderate-sized apartment, which was every thing to them, the visitors were most cordially and even gratefully welcomed; the quiet neat old lady, who with her knitting was seated in the warmest corner, wanting even to give up her place to Miss Woodhouse, and her more active, talking daughter, almost ready to overpower them with care and kindness, thanks for their visit, solicitude for their shoes, anxious inquiries after Mr. Woodhouse’s health, cheerful communications about her mother’s, and sweet-cake from the beaufet—‘Mrs. Cole had just been there, just called in for ten minutes, and had been so good as to sit an hour with them, and she had taken a piece of cake and been so kind as to say she liked it very much; and, therefore, she hoped Miss Woodhouse and Miss Smith would do them the favour to eat a piece too.’
房子属于商人。贝茨夫人和贝茨小姐占据了客厅的地板。在那里，在这间对他们来说就是一切的中等大小的公寓里，来访者受到了最诚挚甚至是感激的欢迎。安静整洁的老太太，她坐在最温暖的角落里编织着毛衣，甚至想把自己的位置让给伍德豪斯小姐，而她更活跃、更爱说话的女儿，几乎准备好用关心和善意压倒他们，感谢他们的来访，对他们鞋子的关心，对伍德豪斯先生健康状况的焦急询问，关于她母亲的愉快的交流，以及来自美女的甜蛋糕——“伍德豪斯夫人”。科尔刚刚到了那里，只打了十分钟电话，就很友善地和他们一起坐了一个小时，她拿了一块蛋糕，并友善地说她非常喜欢。因此，她希望伍德豪斯小姐和史密斯小姐也能帮她们吃一块。

The mention of the Coles was sure to be followed by that of Mr. Elton. There was intimacy between them, and Mr. Cole had heard from Mr. Elton since his going away. Emma knew what was coming; they must have the letter over again, and settle how long he had been gone, and how much he was engaged in company, and what a favourite he was wherever he went, and how full the Master of the Ceremonies’ ball had been; and she went through it very well, with all the interest and all the commendation that could be requisite, and always putting forward to prevent Harriet’s being obliged to say a word.
提到科尔斯之后肯定会提到埃尔顿先生。他们之间关系亲密，自从埃尔顿先生离开后，科尔先生就一直收到他的消息。艾玛知道接下来会发生什么。他们必须把这封信重读一遍，弄清楚他离开了多久，他参加了多少活动，无论他走到哪里，他是多么受欢迎，以及司仪的舞会有多满；她非常顺利地完成了这一切，带着所有必要的兴趣和所有的赞扬，并且总是提出阻止哈丽特不得不说一句话。

This she had been prepared for when she entered the house; but meant, having once talked him handsomely over, to be no farther incommoded by any troublesome topic, and to wander at large amongst all the Mistresses and Misses of Highbury, and their card-parties. She had not been prepared to have Jane Fairfax succeed Mr. Elton; but he was actually hurried off by Miss Bates, she jumped away from him at last abruptly to the Coles, to usher in a letter from her niece.
当她进屋的时候，她就已经做好了这个准备。但意思是，一旦和他谈过之后，就不再被任何麻烦的话题所困扰，并在海布里的所有男女老少和他们的卡片聚会中闲逛。她并没有准备好让简·费尔法克斯接替埃尔顿先生；她没有准备好让简·费尔法克斯接替埃尔顿先生。但他居然被贝茨小姐催走了，她终于猛然离开他，来到科尔斯，去迎接她侄女的一封信。

‘Oh! yes—Mr. Elton, I understand—certainly as to dancing— Mrs. Cole was telling me that dancing at the rooms at Bath was— Mrs. Cole was so kind as to sit some time with us, talking of Jane; for as soon as she came in, she began inquiring after her, Jane is so very great a favourite there. Whenever she is with us, Mrs. Cole does not know how to shew her kindness enough; and I must say that Jane deserves it as much as any body can. And so she began inquiring after her directly, saying, ‘I know you cannot have heard from Jane lately, because it is not her time for writing;’ and when I immediately said, ‘But indeed we have, we had a letter this very morning,’ I do not know that I ever saw any body more surprized. ‘Have you, upon your honour?’ said she; ‘well, that is quite unexpected. Do let me hear what she says.’’
'哦！是的——先生。埃尔顿，我明白——当然，至于跳舞——科尔夫人告诉我，在巴斯的房间里跳舞是——科尔夫人很友善，和我们一起坐了一段时间，谈论简；因为她一进来就开始打听她的情况，简是那里非常受欢迎的人。每当科尔夫人和我们在一起时，她都不知道如何表达她的善意；我必须说，简和任何人一样应得的。于是她开始直接询问她，说：“我知道你最近没有简的消息，因为现在不是她写信的时间；”当我立即说，“但确实有，我们有一封这样的信”早上，”我不知道我见过比这更惊讶的人了。 “我敢说，你有吗？”她说道。 ‘嗯，这真是出乎意料。让我听听她说的话。”

Emma’s politeness was at hand directly, to say, with smiling interest—
艾玛的礼貌直接就在眼前，微笑着说道——

‘Have you heard from Miss Fairfax so lately? I am extremely happy. I hope she is well?’
“你最近有费尔法克斯小姐的消息吗？”我非常高兴。我希望她一切都好？

‘Thank you. You are so kind!’ replied the happily deceived aunt, while eagerly hunting for the letter.—‘Oh! here it is. I was sure it could not be far off; but I had put my huswife upon it, you see, without being aware, and so it was quite hid, but I had it in my hand so very lately that I was almost sure it must be on the table. I was reading it to Mrs. Cole, and since she went away, I was reading it again to my mother, for it is such a pleasure to her— a letter from Jane—that she can never hear it often enough; so I knew it could not be far off, and here it is, only just under my huswife—and since you are so kind as to wish to hear what she says;—but, first of all, I really must, in justice to Jane, apologise for her writing so short a letter—only two pages you see— hardly two—and in general she fills the whole paper and crosses half. My mother often wonders that I can make it out so well. She often says, when the letter is first opened, ‘Well, Hetty, now I think you will be put to it to make out all that checker-work’— don’t you, ma’am?—And then I tell her, I am sure she would contrive to make it out herself, if she had nobody to do it for her— every word of it—I am sure she would pore over it till she had made out every word. And, indeed, though my mother’s eyes are not so good as they were, she can see amazingly well still, thank God! with the help of spectacles. It is such a blessing! My mother’s are really very good indeed. Jane often says, when she is here, ‘I am sure, grandmama, you must have had very strong eyes to see as you do—and so much fine work as you have done too!—I only wish my eyes may last me as well.’’
'谢谢。你真是太好了！”被骗的阿姨高兴地回答，同时急切地寻找那封信。——“哦！这里是。我确信它离我们不远了。但你看，我把我的妻子放在上面，你看，没有意识到，所以它是相当隐蔽的，但我最近才把它拿在手里，我几乎可以肯定它一定在桌子上。我把这封信读给科尔太太听，自从她走后，我又把这封信读给我母亲听，因为这对她来说是一件很高兴的事——一封来自简的信——她永远听不够；因为这封信是简写给她的。所以我知道它不会太远，就在这里，就在我妻子的下面——既然你那么好心，希望听听她说的话；——但是，首先，我真的必须，为了正义简，为她写了这么短的信而道歉——你只看到两页——几乎没有两页——而且一般来说，她写满了整张纸，划掉了一半。我妈妈常常想知道我能做得这么好。当这封信第一次被打开时，她经常说，“好吧，海蒂，现在我想你会被要求去弄清楚所有这些检查工作”——不是吗，女士？——然后我告诉她，我确信她会想办法自己弄清楚，如果她没有人帮她做的话——其中的每一个字——我相信她会仔细研究它，直到她弄清楚每一个字。确实，虽然我母亲的眼睛不如以前那么好，但她仍然能看得很清楚，感谢上帝！在眼镜的帮助下。这是多么大的祝福啊！我妈妈的确实非常好。简经常说，当她在这里的时候，“我确信，奶奶，您一定有一双非常敏锐的眼睛才能看到您所做的事情，而且您也做了很多出色的工作！”我只希望我的眼睛能像我一样陪伴我一生出色地。''

All this spoken extremely fast obliged Miss Bates to stop for breath; and Emma said something very civil about the excellence of Miss Fairfax’s handwriting.
这一切讲得极快，迫使贝茨小姐停下来喘口气。艾玛对费尔法克斯小姐出色的笔迹说了一些非常客气的话。

‘You are extremely kind,’ replied Miss Bates, highly gratified; ‘you who are such a judge, and write so beautifully yourself. I am sure there is nobody’s praise that could give us so much pleasure as Miss Woodhouse’s. My mother does not hear; she is a little deaf you know. Ma’am,’ addressing her, ‘do you hear what Miss Woodhouse is so obliging to say about Jane’s handwriting?’
“你真是太好了，”贝茨小姐非常满意地回答。 ‘你真是一位法官，而且你自己写得这么漂亮。我确信没有人的赞美能像伍德豪斯小姐的赞美那样给我们带来如此多的快乐。我母亲听不见；你知道，她有点聋。女士，”对她说道，“您听到伍德豪斯小姐如此热情地谈论简的笔迹了吗？”

And Emma had the advantage of hearing her own silly compliment repeated twice over before the good old lady could comprehend it. She was pondering, in the meanwhile, upon the possibility, without seeming very rude, of making her escape from Jane Fairfax’s letter, and had almost resolved on hurrying away directly under some slight excuse, when Miss Bates turned to her again and seized her attention.
艾玛的优势在于，在那位好心的老太太还没听懂之前，她就听到自己愚蠢的恭维话重复了两遍。与此同时，她正在考虑是否有可能（看起来不太粗鲁）逃离简·费尔法克斯的信，几乎决定找个借口就赶紧走开，这时贝茨小姐又转向她，引起了她的注意。 。

‘My mother’s deafness is very trifling you see—just nothing at all. By only raising my voice, and saying any thing two or three times over, she is sure to hear; but then she is used to my voice. But it is very remarkable that she should always hear Jane better than she does me. Jane speaks so distinct! However, she will not find her grandmama at all deafer than she was two years ago; which is saying a great deal at my mother’s time of life—and it really is full two years, you know, since she was here. We never were so long without seeing her before, and as I was telling Mrs. Cole, we shall hardly know how to make enough of her now.’
“你看，我母亲的耳聋是非常轻微的——根本就没有什么。”只要我提高声音，任何事情说两三遍，她就一定能听到；但后来她习惯了我的声音。但值得注意的是，她总是比我更清楚地听到简的声音。简说得真清楚！然而，她不会发现她的祖母比两年前更聋了；这在我母亲的一生中意义重大——你知道，自从她来到这里以来，已经整整两年了。我们以前从来没有这么长时间没有见过她，正如我告诉科尔夫人的那样，我们现在几乎不知道如何充分利用她。

‘Are you expecting Miss Fairfax here soon?’
“你等费尔法克斯小姐很快就来吗？”

‘Oh yes; next week.’
'哦是的;下周。'

‘Indeed!—that must be a very great pleasure.’
“确实如此！——那一定是一件非常高兴的事情。”

‘Thank you. You are very kind. Yes, next week. Every body is so surprized; and every body says the same obliging things. I am sure she will be as happy to see her friends at Highbury, as they can be to see her. Yes, Friday or Saturday; she cannot say which, because Colonel Campbell will be wanting the carriage himself one of those days. So very good of them to send her the whole way! But they always do, you know. Oh yes, Friday or Saturday next. That is what she writes about. That is the reason of her writing out of rule, as we call it; for, in the common course, we should not have heard from her before next Tuesday or Wednesday.’
'谢谢。你很善良。是的，下周。每个人都如此惊讶；每个人都会说同样的好话。我相信她会很高兴见到她在海布里的朋友，就像他们很高兴见到她一样。是的，周五或周六；她不能说是哪个，因为有一天坎贝尔上校也会想要这辆马车。他们一路送她真是太好了！但他们总是这样做，你知道。哦，是的，下周五或周六。这就是她所写的内容。这就是她写作不按规则（我们称之为不规则）的原因。因为按照惯例，我们不应该在下周二或周三之前收到她的消息。

‘Yes, so I imagined. I was afraid there could be little chance of my hearing any thing of Miss Fairfax to-day.’
是的，我也是这么想的。我担心今天我不太可能听到有关费尔法克斯小姐的任何消息。

‘So obliging of you! No, we should not have heard, if it had not been for this particular circumstance, of her being to come here so soon. My mother is so delighted!—for she is to be three months with us at least. Three months, she says so, positively, as I am going to have the pleasure of reading to you. The case is, you see, that the Campbells are going to Ireland. Mrs. Dixon has persuaded her father and mother to come over and see her directly. They had not intended to go over till the summer, but she is so impatient to see them again—for till she married, last October, she was never away from them so much as a week, which must make it very strange to be in different kingdoms, I was going to say, but however different countries, and so she wrote a very urgent letter to her mother—or her father, I declare I do not know which it was, but we shall see presently in Jane’s letter—wrote in Mr. Dixon’s name as well as her own, to press their coming over directly, and they would give them the meeting in Dublin, and take them back to their country seat, Baly-craig, a beautiful place, I fancy. Jane has heard a great deal of its beauty; from Mr. Dixon, I mean— I do not know that she ever heard about it from any body else; but it was very natural, you know, that he should like to speak of his own place while he was paying his addresses—and as Jane used to be very often walking out with them—for Colonel and Mrs. Campbell were very particular about their daughter’s not walking out often with only Mr. Dixon, for which I do not at all blame them; of course she heard every thing he might be telling Miss Campbell about his own home in Ireland; and I think she wrote us word that he had shewn them some drawings of the place, views that he had taken himself. He is a most amiable, charming young man, I believe. Jane was quite longing to go to Ireland, from his account of things.’
‘真是太感谢你了！不，如果不是这个特殊情况，我们不会听说她这么快就来到这里。我妈妈非常高兴！——因为她至少要和我们在一起三个月了。三个月，她肯定地说，因为我将很高兴为你读书。你看，情况是坎贝尔一家要去爱尔兰。迪克森夫人已经说服了她的父母直接过来见她。他们原本打算等到夏天才过去，但她迫不及待地想再次见到他们——因为直到去年十月她结婚为止，她从来没有离开过他们一个星期，这一定会让她感到很奇怪。不同的王国，我想说，但无论不同的国家，所以她写了一封非常紧急的信给她的母亲——或者她的父亲，我声明我不知道那封信是哪封，但我们很快就会在简的信中看到——写道以迪克森先生和她自己的名义，催促他们直接过来，他们会在都柏林给他们开会，然后带他们回到他们的乡村住所巴利克雷格，我想那是一个美丽的地方。简已经听过很多关于它的美丽的事了。我是说，从迪克森先生那里听说过——我不知道她是否从其他人那里听说过这件事；但是，你知道，他在付地址时喜欢谈论自己的住所是很自然的——而且简过去常常和他们一起出去——因为坎贝尔上校和夫人对他们的住所非常挑剔。女儿不经常只和迪克森先生一起出去，对此我一点也不责怪他们。当然，她听到了他可能告诉坎贝尔小姐的关于他自己在爱尔兰的家的一切；我想她写信给我们说，他给他们看了一些这个地方的图画，以及他自己拍摄的景色。 我相信他是一个最和蔼可亲、最有魅力的年轻人。从他的叙述来看，简很想去爱尔兰。’

At this moment, an ingenious and animating suspicion entering Emma’s brain with regard to Jane Fairfax, this charming Mr. Dixon, and the not going to Ireland, she said, with the insidious design of farther discovery,
此刻，一种巧妙而生动的怀疑进入艾玛的大脑，关于简·费尔法克斯、这位迷人的迪克森先生，以及不去爱尔兰，她说，带着进一步发现的阴险设计，

‘You must feel it very fortunate that Miss Fairfax should be allowed to come to you at such a time. Considering the very particular friendship between her and Mrs. Dixon, you could hardly have expected her to be excused from accompanying Colonel and Mrs. Campbell.’
“费尔法克斯小姐在这个时候能来找你，你一定感到非常幸运。考虑到她和迪克森夫人之间非常特殊的友谊，你很难想象她会被免除陪同坎贝尔上校和夫人。

‘Very true, very true, indeed. The very thing that we have always been rather afraid of; for we should not have liked to have her at such a distance from us, for months together—not able to come if any thing was to happen. But you see, every thing turns out for the best. They want her (Mr. and Mrs. Dixon) excessively to come over with Colonel and Mrs. Campbell; quite depend upon it; nothing can be more kind or pressing than their joint invitation, Jane says, as you will hear presently; Mr. Dixon does not seem in the least backward in any attention. He is a most charming young man. Ever since the service he rendered Jane at Weymouth, when they were out in that party on the water, and she, by the sudden whirling round of something or other among the sails, would have been dashed into the sea at once, and actually was all but gone, if he had not, with the greatest presence of mind, caught hold of her habit— (I can never think of it without trembling!)—But ever since we had the history of that day, I have been so fond of Mr. Dixon!’
‘非常真实，非常真实，确实如此。这正是我们一直非常害怕的事情；因为我们不应该喜欢她离我们这么远，在一起几个月——如果有什么事情发生，她就不能来。但你看，一切都会变得最好。他们非常希望她（迪克森先生和夫人）与坎贝尔上校和夫人一起过来。完全依赖它；简说，没有什么比他们的共同邀请更友善或更紧迫的了，正如你很快就会听到的那样。迪克森先生的注意力似乎丝毫没有落后。他是一个最有魅力的年轻人。自从他在韦茅斯为简提供服务以来，当他们在水面上成群结队时，她，由于帆中突然旋转的某种东西，会立即被冲入大海，实际上是如果他没有以最大的冷静抓住她的习惯的话，一切都差不多消失了——（我永远无法不颤抖地想到它！）——但自从我们有了那天的历史以来，我一直如此喜欢狄克逊先生的！

‘But, in spite of all her friends’ urgency, and her own wish of seeing Ireland, Miss Fairfax prefers devoting the time to you and Mrs. Bates?’
“但是，尽管费尔法克斯小姐所有的朋友都很着急，而且她自己也希望去爱尔兰看看，但她还是更愿意把时间花在你和贝茨夫人身上？”

‘Yes—entirely her own doing, entirely her own choice; and Colonel and Mrs. Campbell think she does quite right, just what they should recommend; and indeed they particularly wish her to try her native air, as she has not been quite so well as usual lately.’
“是的——完全是她自己做的，完全是她自己的选择；坎贝尔上校和夫人认为她做得很对，正是他们应该推荐的；事实上，他们特别希望她尝试一下她的本土风格，因为她最近不太像平时那么好。

‘I am concerned to hear of it. I think they judge wisely. But Mrs. Dixon must be very much disappointed. Mrs. Dixon, I understand, has no remarkable degree of personal beauty; is not, by any means, to be compared with Miss Fairfax.’
“听到这个消息我很担心。我认为他们的判断是明智的。但迪克森夫人一定非常失望。据我所知，迪克森夫人的个人美貌并不出众。无论如何，都不能与费尔法克斯小姐相比。”

‘Oh! no. You are very obliging to say such things—but certainly not. There is no comparison between them. Miss Campbell always was absolutely plain—but extremely elegant and amiable.’
'哦！不。你非常乐意说出这样的话——但肯定不是。他们之间没有可比性。坎贝尔小姐总是非常朴素，但极其优雅和和蔼可亲。

‘Yes, that of course.’
“是的，当然。”

‘Jane caught a bad cold, poor thing! so long ago as the 7th of November, (as I am going to read to you,) and has never been well since. A long time, is not it, for a cold to hang upon her? She never mentioned it before, because she would not alarm us. Just like her! so considerate!—But however, she is so far from well, that her kind friends the Campbells think she had better come home, and try an air that always agrees with her; and they have no doubt that three or four months at Highbury will entirely cure her— and it is certainly a great deal better that she should come here, than go to Ireland, if she is unwell. Nobody could nurse her, as we should do.’
“简得了重感冒，可怜的东西！很久以前的 11 月 7 日，（正如我将要读给你们听的那样），从那以后就再也没有好过。她感冒已经持续很长时间了，不是吗？她以前从未提起过这件事，因为她不会惊动我们。就像她一样！如此体贴！——然而，她的身体状况却很不好，她的好朋友坎贝尔夫妇认为她最好回家，尝试一种总是适合她的气氛；他们毫不怀疑，在海布里待上三四个月就能完全治愈她——如果她身体不舒服的话，她来这里肯定比去爱尔兰要好得多。没人能像我们应该做的那样照顾她。

‘It appears to me the most desirable arrangement in the world.’
“在我看来，这是世界上最理想的安排。”

‘And so she is to come to us next Friday or Saturday, and the Campbells leave town in their way to Holyhead the Monday following— as you will find from Jane’s letter. So sudden!—You may guess, dear Miss Woodhouse, what a flurry it has thrown me in! If it was not for the drawback of her illness—but I am afraid we must expect to see her grown thin, and looking very poorly. I must tell you what an unlucky thing happened to me, as to that. I always make a point of reading Jane’s letters through to myself first, before I read them aloud to my mother, you know, for fear of there being any thing in them to distress her. Jane desired me to do it, so I always do: and so I began to-day with my usual caution; but no sooner did I come to the mention of her being unwell, than I burst out, quite frightened, with ‘Bless me! poor Jane is ill!’— which my mother, being on the watch, heard distinctly, and was sadly alarmed at. However, when I read on, I found it was not near so bad as I had fancied at first; and I make so light of it now to her, that she does not think much about it. But I cannot imagine how I could be so off my guard. If Jane does not get well soon, we will call in Mr. Perry. The expense shall not be thought of; and though he is so liberal, and so fond of Jane that I dare say he would not mean to charge any thing for attendance, we could not suffer it to be so, you know. He has a wife and family to maintain, and is not to be giving away his time. Well, now I have just given you a hint of what Jane writes about, we will turn to her letter, and I am sure she tells her own story a great deal better than I can tell it for her.’
“所以她要在下周五或周六来找我们，坎贝尔一家会在下周一离开小镇前往霍利黑德——正如你从简的信中看到的那样。太突然了！——你可能会猜到，亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，这让我陷入了多么混乱的境地！如果不是因为她的病，恐怕我们会看到她变瘦，看起来很糟糕。我必须告诉你我身上发生了一件不幸的事情。我总是特意先把简的信读给自己听，然后再大声读给我母亲听，你知道，因为担心里面有什么东西会让她难过。简希望我这样做，所以我总是这样做：所以我以一贯的谨慎态度开始了今天的工作。但当我一提到她身体不适时，我就惊恐地大声喊道：“保佑我吧！”可怜的简病了！”——我的母亲在值班时清楚地听到了这句话，并为此感到悲哀地震惊。然而，当我继续读下去时，我发现事情并没有我一开始想象的那么糟糕；现在我对她来说这件事太轻描淡写了，以至于她没有多想。但我无法想象我怎么会如此措手不及。如果简没有很快好起来，我们会请佩里先生来。费用不用考虑；虽然他很开明，也很喜欢简，我敢说他不会向出席者收取任何费用，但你知道，我们不能容忍这样的情况发生。他有妻子和家庭要维持，他不能浪费自己的时间。好吧，现在我刚刚向你暗示了简所写的内容，我们将转向她的信，我相信她讲述自己的故事比我为她讲述的要好得多。

‘I am afraid we must be running away,’ said Emma, glancing at Harriet, and beginning to rise—‘My father will be expecting us. I had no intention, I thought I had no power of staying more than five minutes, when I first entered the house. I merely called, because I would not pass the door without inquiring after Mrs. Bates; but I have been so pleasantly detained! Now, however, we must wish you and Mrs. Bates good morning.’
“恐怕我们肯定是要逃跑了，”艾玛说，看了一眼哈丽特，然后开始站起来——“我父亲会在等我们。”我无意，当我第一次进屋时，我以为我没有能力停留超过五分钟。我只是打电话，因为我不会在不询问贝茨夫人的情况下进门。但我被如此愉快地拘留了！然而现在，我们必须祝你和贝茨夫人早上好。

And not all that could be urged to detain her succeeded. She regained the street—happy in this, that though much had been forced on her against her will, though she had in fact heard the whole substance of Jane Fairfax’s letter, she had been able to escape the letter itself.
但并不是所有能敦促拘留她的努力都成功了。她重新回到了街道上——对此感到高兴的是，虽然许多事情是违背她的意愿强加给她的，尽管她实际上已经听到了简·费尔法克斯信的全部内容，但她还是能够逃脱这封信本身。

Chapter II
第二章

Jane Fairfax was an orphan, the only child of Mrs. Bates’s youngest daughter.
简·费尔法克斯是一名孤儿，是贝茨夫人最小女儿的独生女。

The marriage of Lieut. Fairfax of the regiment of infantry, and Miss Jane Bates, had had its day of fame and pleasure, hope and interest; but nothing now remained of it, save the melancholy remembrance of him dying in action abroad—of his widow sinking under consumption and grief soon afterwards—and this girl.
刘总的婚姻。步兵团的费尔法克斯和简·贝茨小姐度过了名利双收、充满希望和兴趣的日子。但现在，除了他在国外的战斗中阵亡的忧郁回忆——他的遗孀不久之后就在肺结核和悲痛中沉沦——以及这个女孩之外，一切都已荡然无存。

By birth she belonged to Highbury: and when at three years old, on losing her mother, she became the property, the charge, the consolation, the fondling of her grandmother and aunt, there had seemed every probability of her being permanently fixed there; of her being taught only what very limited means could command, and growing up with no advantages of connexion or improvement, to be engrafted on what nature had given her in a pleasing person, good understanding, and warm-hearted, well-meaning relations.
她出生时就属于海布里：三岁时，她失去了母亲，她成了她祖母和姨妈的财产、负担、安慰和爱抚，她似乎很有可能永远固定在那里；但她的母亲却在海布里长大。她只接受非常有限的手段所能掌握的知识，并且在成长过程中没有任何联系或进步的优势，她被自然赋予了她一个令人愉快的人，良好的理解力，以及热心肠，善意的关系。

But the compassionate feelings of a friend of her father gave a change to her destiny. This was Colonel Campbell, who had very highly regarded Fairfax, as an excellent officer and most deserving young man; and farther, had been indebted to him for such attentions, during a severe camp-fever, as he believed had saved his life. These were claims which he did not learn to overlook, though some years passed away from the death of poor Fairfax, before his own return to England put any thing in his power. When he did return, he sought out the child and took notice of her. He was a married man, with only one living child, a girl, about Jane’s age: and Jane became their guest, paying them long visits and growing a favourite with all; and before she was nine years old, his daughter’s great fondness for her, and his own wish of being a real friend, united to produce an offer from Colonel Campbell of undertaking the whole charge of her education. It was accepted; and from that period Jane had belonged to Colonel Campbell’s family, and had lived with them entirely, only visiting her grandmother from time to time.
但父亲的一位朋友的慈悲之情改变了她的命运。这就是坎贝尔上校，他对费尔法克斯评价很高，认为他是一位优秀的军官和最值得尊敬的年轻人。更重要的是，在一场严重的野营热病期间，他对他的关心表示感谢，他相信这救了他的命。他并没有学会忽视这些主张，尽管可怜的费尔法克斯死后几年过去了，在他回到英国之前，他已经掌握了任何东西。当他回来时，他找到了孩子并注意到了她。他是一个已婚男人，只有一个孩子，一个女孩，年龄与简相仿：简成了他们的客人，长期拜访他们，并受到所有人的喜爱。在她九岁之前，他女儿对她的喜爱，以及他自己想成为真正朋友的愿望，结合在一起，坎贝尔上校提出要承担她的全部教育责任。它被接受了；从那时起，简就属于坎贝尔上校的家人了，完全和他们住在一起，只是偶尔去看望她的祖母。

The plan was that she should be brought up for educating others; the very few hundred pounds which she inherited from her father making independence impossible. To provide for her otherwise was out of Colonel Campbell’s power; for though his income, by pay and appointments, was handsome, his fortune was moderate and must be all his daughter’s; but, by giving her an education, he hoped to be supplying the means of respectable subsistence hereafter.
我们的计划是让她长大后能够教育他人。她从父亲那里继承的仅有的几百英镑使她不可能独立。坎贝尔上校无权为她提供其他的食物。因为虽然他的收入（从薪水和任命来看）很可观，但他的财产却很有限，而且肯定都是他女儿的。但是，通过让她接受教育，他希望今后能够为她提供体面的生活手段。

Such was Jane Fairfax’s history. She had fallen into good hands, known nothing but kindness from the Campbells, and been given an excellent education. Living constantly with right-minded and well-informed people, her heart and understanding had received every advantage of discipline and culture; and Colonel Campbell’s residence being in London, every lighter talent had been done full justice to, by the attendance of first-rate masters. Her disposition and abilities were equally worthy of all that friendship could do; and at eighteen or nineteen she was, as far as such an early age can be qualified for the care of children, fully competent to the office of instruction herself; but she was too much beloved to be parted with. Neither father nor mother could promote, and the daughter could not endure it. The evil day was put off. It was easy to decide that she was still too young; and Jane remained with them, sharing, as another daughter, in all the rational pleasures of an elegant society, and a judicious mixture of home and amusement, with only the drawback of the future, the sobering suggestions of her own good understanding to remind her that all this might soon be over.
这就是简·费尔法克斯的经历。她得到了很好的照顾，只知道坎贝尔夫妇的仁慈，并受到了良好的教育。经常与思想正确、见多识广的人一起生活，她的心灵和理解力得到了纪律和文化的一切好处；坎贝尔上校的住所位于伦敦，一流大师的出席，让每一位较轻的天才都得到了充分的发挥。她的性格和能力同样配得上友谊所能带来的一切。十八岁或十九岁的时候，她就已经有资格照顾孩子了，完全有能力胜任教育工作。但她实在是太受人爱戴了，舍不得分开。父亲和母亲都无法晋升，女儿也无法忍受。邪恶的日子被推迟了。很容易看出她还太年轻。简留在了他们身边，作为另一个女儿，分享着优雅社会的所有理性快乐，以及家庭和娱乐的明智混合，只有未来的缺点，她自己的良好理解的清醒建议提醒她这一切可能很快就会结束。

The affection of the whole family, the warm attachment of Miss Campbell in particular, was the more honourable to each party from the circumstance of Jane’s decided superiority both in beauty and acquirements. That nature had given it in feature could not be unseen by the young woman, nor could her higher powers of mind be unfelt by the parents. They continued together with unabated regard however, till the marriage of Miss Campbell, who by that chance, that luck which so often defies anticipation in matrimonial affairs, giving attraction to what is moderate rather than to what is superior, engaged the affections of Mr. Dixon, a young man, rich and agreeable, almost as soon as they were acquainted; and was eligibly and happily settled, while Jane Fairfax had yet her bread to earn.
整个家庭的感情，特别是坎贝尔小姐的温暖依恋，由于简在美貌和学识方面都具有明显的优势，对双方来说都更加光荣。这位年轻女子不可能看不到大自然赋予它的特征，她的父母也不可能感觉不到她更高的心灵力量。然而，他们继续在一起，一直没有减弱，直到坎贝尔小姐结婚，坎贝尔小姐的运气在婚姻事务中经常出乎意料，吸引了温和的东西而不是优越的东西，吸引了先生的感情。迪克森，一个年轻人，富有，和蔼可亲，他们几乎是刚认识的。并幸福地安顿下来，而简·费尔法克斯还没有面包可挣。

This event had very lately taken place; too lately for any thing to be yet attempted by her less fortunate friend towards entering on her path of duty; though she had now reached the age which her own judgment had fixed on for beginning. She had long resolved that one-and-twenty should be the period. With the fortitude of a devoted novitiate, she had resolved at one-and-twenty to complete the sacrifice, and retire from all the pleasures of life, of rational intercourse, equal society, peace and hope, to penance and mortification for ever.
这件事是最近才发生的；她不幸的朋友还没有尝试踏上她的职责之路，但为时已晚。尽管她现在已经到了她自己的判断所确定的开始年龄。她早就决定以一二十分为句点。凭借一名虔诚的见习者的毅力，她决心在一二十岁的时候完成牺牲，从生活的所有乐趣、理性交往、平等社会、和平与希望中退休，永远忏悔和禁欲。

The good sense of Colonel and Mrs. Campbell could not oppose such a resolution, though their feelings did. As long as they lived, no exertions would be necessary, their home might be hers for ever; and for their own comfort they would have retained her wholly; but this would be selfishness:—what must be at last, had better be soon. Perhaps they began to feel it might have been kinder and wiser to have resisted the temptation of any delay, and spared her from a taste of such enjoyments of ease and leisure as must now be relinquished. Still, however, affection was glad to catch at any reasonable excuse for not hurrying on the wretched moment. She had never been quite well since the time of their daughter’s marriage; and till she should have completely recovered her usual strength, they must forbid her engaging in duties, which, so far from being compatible with a weakened frame and varying spirits, seemed, under the most favourable circumstances, to require something more than human perfection of body and mind to be discharged with tolerable comfort.
坎贝尔上校和夫人的理智无法反对这样的决议，尽管他们的感情却反对。只要他们活着，就不用费力，他们的家就永远是她的了；为了他们自己的安慰，他们会完全保留她。但这是自私的：——最后一定会发生的事情，最好尽快发生。也许他们开始觉得，抵制住任何拖延的诱惑，让她免于尝到现在必须放弃的安逸和闲暇的享受，可能会更仁慈、更明智。然而，感情仍然很高兴能抓住任何合理的借口，不匆忙度过这个不幸的时刻。自从女儿结婚以来，她的身体一直不太好。在她完全恢复平常的体力之前，他们必须禁止她从事职责，这些职责远非与虚弱的体格和多变的精神相容，在最有利的情况下，似乎需要比人类完美的东西更多的东西。身体和心灵得到可忍受的舒适感的释放。

With regard to her not accompanying them to Ireland, her account to her aunt contained nothing but truth, though there might be some truths not told. It was her own choice to give the time of their absence to Highbury; to spend, perhaps, her last months of perfect liberty with those kind relations to whom she was so very dear: and the Campbells, whatever might be their motive or motives, whether single, or double, or treble, gave the arrangement their ready sanction, and said, that they depended more on a few months spent in her native air, for the recovery of her health, than on any thing else. Certain it was that she was to come; and that Highbury, instead of welcoming that perfect novelty which had been so long promised it—Mr. Frank Churchill—must put up for the present with Jane Fairfax, who could bring only the freshness of a two years’ absence.
关于她没有随他们去爱尔兰的事情，她对姨妈的叙述除了事实之外什么也没有，尽管可能有些事实没有说出来。她自己选择将他们不在的时间留给海布里。或许，她可以和那些她非常亲爱的亲戚一起度过她完全自由的最后几个月：而坎贝尔夫妇，无论他们的动机是什么，无论是单一的、双重的还是三重的，都对这一安排给予了他们现成的批准，并说，他们更多地依赖于在她家乡的空气中度过的几个月来恢复她的健康，而不是其他任何事情。她一定会来；这是肯定的。海布里先生并没有欢迎长期以来所承诺的完美新奇——先生。弗兰克·丘吉尔——必须忍受目前与简·费尔法克斯的相处，她只能带来两年缺席后的新鲜感。

Emma was sorry;—to have to pay civilities to a person she did not like through three long months!—to be always doing more than she wished, and less than she ought! Why she did not like Jane Fairfax might be a difficult question to answer; Mr. Knightley had once told her it was because she saw in her the really accomplished young woman, which she wanted to be thought herself; and though the accusation had been eagerly refuted at the time, there were moments of self-examination in which her conscience could not quite acquit her. But ‘she could never get acquainted with her: she did not know how it was, but there was such coldness and reserve— such apparent indifference whether she pleased or not—and then, her aunt was such an eternal talker!—and she was made such a fuss with by every body!—and it had been always imagined that they were to be so intimate—because their ages were the same, every body had supposed they must be so fond of each other.’ These were her reasons— she had no better.
艾玛很抱歉——在漫长的三个月里不得不向一个她不喜欢的人表示礼貌！——总是做得比她希望的多，又比她应该做的少！为什么她不喜欢简·费尔法克斯可能是一个很难回答的问题。奈特利先生曾经告诉她，这是因为她在她身上看到了一位真正有成就的年轻女性，而她希望别人认为她是她自己；但她并没有这样做。尽管当时这一指控已被急切地驳斥，但在自我反省的时刻，她的良心仍无法完全证明她无罪。但是“她永远无法熟悉她：她不知道这是怎么回事，但是她是如此的冷漠和矜持——无论她高兴与否，她都表现得如此明显的冷漠——然后，她的姨妈是一个永远的健谈者！——而她是所有人都大惊小怪！——而且一直以为他们会如此亲密——因为他们的年龄相同，所有人都认为他们一定是非常相爱的。”这就是她的理由——她也没有更好的了。

It was a dislike so little just—every imputed fault was so magnified by fancy, that she never saw Jane Fairfax the first time after any considerable absence, without feeling that she had injured her; and now, when the due visit was paid, on her arrival, after a two years’ interval, she was particularly struck with the very appearance and manners, which for those two whole years she had been depreciating. Jane Fairfax was very elegant, remarkably elegant; and she had herself the highest value for elegance. Her height was pretty, just such as almost every body would think tall, and nobody could think very tall; her figure particularly graceful; her size a most becoming medium, between fat and thin, though a slight appearance of ill-health seemed to point out the likeliest evil of the two. Emma could not but feel all this; and then, her face—her features— there was more beauty in them altogether than she had remembered; it was not regular, but it was very pleasing beauty. Her eyes, a deep grey, with dark eye-lashes and eyebrows, had never been denied their praise; but the skin, which she had been used to cavil at, as wanting colour, had a clearness and delicacy which really needed no fuller bloom. It was a style of beauty, of which elegance was the reigning character, and as such, she must, in honour, by all her principles, admire it:—elegance, which, whether of person or of mind, she saw so little in Highbury. There, not to be vulgar, was distinction, and merit.
这种不喜欢是那么不正当——每一个归咎于她的过失都被想象放大了，以至于她在长时间缺席之后第一次见到简·费尔法克斯时，总是感觉自己伤害了她；现在，时隔两年之后，当她再次到访时，她对她的外表和举止感到特别震惊，而在这两年里，她一直在贬低这些。简·费尔法克斯非常优雅，非常优雅。她本人对优雅的评价最高。她的身高很漂亮，几乎是每个人都会认为的高，但没有人会认为很高；她的身材特别优美；她的身材是最合适的中等，介于胖和瘦之间，尽管轻微的健康状况不佳似乎表明了两者中最有可能的邪恶。艾玛无法不感受到这一切；然后，她的脸——她的五官——比她记忆中的更加美丽。它不规则，但非常令人赏心悦目。她的眼睛是深灰色的，睫毛和眉毛都是黑色的，从来没有人否认过她的赞美。但她习惯于挑剔的皮肤缺乏色彩，却有一种清澈细腻的感觉，确实不需要更饱满的绽放。这是一种美丽的风格，其中优雅是其主要特征，因此，她必须以荣誉为荣，按照她的所有原则，欣赏它：——优雅，无论是人的优雅还是心灵的优雅，她在她身上都看不到这种优雅。海布里。不粗俗地说，那里有荣誉和优点。

In short, she sat, during the first visit, looking at Jane Fairfax with twofold complacency; the sense of pleasure and the sense of rendering justice, and was determining that she would dislike her no longer. When she took in her history, indeed, her situation, as well as her beauty; when she considered what all this elegance was destined to, what she was going to sink from, how she was going to live, it seemed impossible to feel any thing but compassion and respect; especially, if to every well-known particular entitling her to interest, were added the highly probable circumstance of an attachment to Mr. Dixon, which she had so naturally started to herself. In that case, nothing could be more pitiable or more honourable than the sacrifices she had resolved on. Emma was very willing now to acquit her of having seduced Mr. Dixon’s actions from his wife, or of any thing mischievous which her imagination had suggested at first. If it were love, it might be simple, single, successless love on her side alone. She might have been unconsciously sucking in the sad poison, while a sharer of his conversation with her friend; and from the best, the purest of motives, might now be denying herself this visit to Ireland, and resolving to divide herself effectually from him and his connexions by soon beginning her career of laborious duty.
简而言之，在第一次拜访时，她坐在那里，带着双重的自满地看着简·费尔法克斯。愉悦感和伸张正义的感觉，决定不再讨厌她了。当她了解她的历史，事实上，她的处境，以及她的美丽时；当她想到这一切的优雅注定会带来什么，她将要沉沦在什么，她将如何生活时，除了同情和尊重之外，似乎无法感受到任何东西；特别是，如果每一个众所周知的细节都让她感兴趣的话，再加上极有可能对迪克森先生产生依恋的情况，而她是很自然地开始对自己产生这种依恋的。既然如此，没有什么比她决心做出的牺牲更可怜，更光荣的了。艾玛现在非常愿意免除她从妻子那里引诱狄克逊先生的行为，或者她一开始想象的任何恶作剧的罪名。如果这就是爱情，那也许就是简单、单一、只属于她一个人的不成功的爱情。当她与她的朋友分享他的谈话时，她可能已经无意识地吸入了悲伤的毒药；出于最好、最纯粹的动机，她现在可能会拒绝访问爱尔兰，并决心通过很快开始她的艰苦工作生涯来有效地与他和他的关系分开。

Upon the whole, Emma left her with such softened, charitable feelings, as made her look around in walking home, and lament that Highbury afforded no young man worthy of giving her independence; nobody that she could wish to scheme about for her.
总而言之，艾玛给她留下了如此柔和、仁慈的感情，让她在回家的路上环顾四周，并感叹海布里没有一个值得给予她独立的年轻人；但她并没有给她带来任何负担。没有一个她愿意为她谋划的人。

These were charming feelings—but not lasting. Before she had committed herself by any public profession of eternal friendship for Jane Fairfax, or done more towards a recantation of past prejudices and errors, than saying to Mr. Knightley, ‘She certainly is handsome; she is better than handsome!’ Jane had spent an evening at Hartfield with her grandmother and aunt, and every thing was relapsing much into its usual state. Former provocations reappeared. The aunt was as tiresome as ever; more tiresome, because anxiety for her health was now added to admiration of her powers; and they had to listen to the description of exactly how little bread and butter she ate for breakfast, and how small a slice of mutton for dinner, as well as to see exhibitions of new caps and new workbags for her mother and herself; and Jane’s offences rose again. They had music; Emma was obliged to play; and the thanks and praise which necessarily followed appeared to her an affectation of candour, an air of greatness, meaning only to shew off in higher style her own very superior performance. She was, besides, which was the worst of all, so cold, so cautious! There was no getting at her real opinion. Wrapt up in a cloak of politeness, she seemed determined to hazard nothing. She was disgustingly, was suspiciously reserved.
这些感觉很迷人，但并不持久。在她公开表态与简·费尔法克斯保持永恒的友谊之前，或者在放弃过去的偏见和错误方面做出更多努力之前，除了对奈特利先生说：“她确实很漂亮；她确实很漂亮；”她不仅仅是英俊！”简和她的祖母和姨妈在哈特菲尔德度过了一个晚上，一切都恢复到了平常的状态。之前的挑衅又出现了。姨妈还是一如既往地令人厌烦。更令人厌烦的是，除了对她的力量的钦佩之外，还增加了对她健康的担忧。他们必须听她描述早餐吃的面包和黄油有多么少，晚餐吃的羊肉片有多么少，还要观看她母亲和她自己的新帽子和新工作包的展览；简的罪行再次上升。他们有音乐；艾玛必须要玩。随之而来的感谢和赞扬在她看来是一种坦率的做作，一种伟大的气氛，只是为了以更高的风格展示她自己非常出色的表现。此外，最糟糕的是，她是如此冷漠，如此谨慎！无法得知她的真实想法。她裹着礼貌的斗篷，似乎决心不冒险。她的样子令人厌恶，她的矜持令人怀疑。

If any thing could be more, where all was most, she was more reserved on the subject of Weymouth and the Dixons than any thing. She seemed bent on giving no real insight into Mr. Dixon’s character, or her own value for his company, or opinion of the suitableness of the match. It was all general approbation and smoothness; nothing delineated or distinguished. It did her no service however. Her caution was thrown away. Emma saw its artifice, and returned to her first surmises. There probably was something more to conceal than her own preference; Mr. Dixon, perhaps, had been very near changing one friend for the other, or been fixed only to Miss Campbell, for the sake of the future twelve thousand pounds.
如果说还有什么比这更重要的话，那么在韦茅斯和狄克逊夫妇这个话题上，她比任何事情都更加保守。她似乎不想真正了解迪克森先生的性格，或者她自己对迪克森先生公司的价值，或者对这场比赛是否合适的看法。一切都得到了普遍的认可和顺利。没有任何描述或区分。但这对她没有任何帮助。她的谨慎被抛弃了。艾玛看出了其中的诡计，又回到了她最初的猜测。也许除了她自己的喜好之外，还有更多的事情需要隐瞒。为了未来的一万二千英镑，狄克逊先生也许差点就换了一个朋友，或者只和坎贝尔小姐在一起了。

The like reserve prevailed on other topics. She and Mr. Frank Churchill had been at Weymouth at the same time. It was known that they were a little acquainted; but not a syllable of real information could Emma procure as to what he truly was. ‘Was he handsome?’—‘She believed he was reckoned a very fine young man.’ ‘Was he agreeable?’— ‘He was generally thought so.’ ‘Did he appear a sensible young man; a young man of information?’—‘At a watering-place, or in a common London acquaintance, it was difficult to decide on such points. Manners were all that could be safely judged of, under a much longer knowledge than they had yet had of Mr. Churchill. She believed every body found his manners pleasing.’ Emma could not forgive her.
在其他话题上，同样的保留也很普遍。她和弗兰克·丘吉尔先生同时在韦茅斯。据了解，他们有一点熟悉；但艾玛无法获得任何关于他真实身份的真实信息。 “他英俊吗？”——“她相信他被认为是一个非常优秀的年轻人。”“他和蔼可亲吗？”——“人们普遍认为他是这样。”一个消息灵通的年轻人？”——“在一个饮水场，或者在伦敦的一个普通熟人那里，很难在这些问题上做出决定。他们对丘吉尔先生的了解比他们对丘吉尔先生的了解要久得多，因此可以安全地判断礼貌。她相信每个人都觉得他的举止令人愉快。艾玛无法原谅她。

Chapter III
第三章

Emma could not forgive her;—but as neither provocation nor resentment were discerned by Mr. Knightley, who had been of the party, and had seen only proper attention and pleasing behaviour on each side, he was expressing the next morning, being at Hartfield again on business with Mr. Woodhouse, his approbation of the whole; not so openly as he might have done had her father been out of the room, but speaking plain enough to be very intelligible to Emma. He had been used to think her unjust to Jane, and had now great pleasure in marking an improvement.
艾玛无法原谅她；但奈特利先生既没有看出挑衅，也没有看出怨恨，因为他是当事人，只看到双方适当的关注和令人愉快的行为，所以第二天早上他在哈特菲尔德表达了自己的观点。再次与伍德豪斯先生谈生意，他对整个事情的认可；如果她父亲不在房间的话，他可能不会那么公开，但说话足够简单，让艾玛很容易理解。他过去一直认为她对简不公平，现在很高兴看到她的进步。

‘A very pleasant evening,’ he began, as soon as Mr. Woodhouse had been talked into what was necessary, told that he understood, and the papers swept away;—‘particularly pleasant. You and Miss Fairfax gave us some very good music. I do not know a more luxurious state, sir, than sitting at one’s ease to be entertained a whole evening by two such young women; sometimes with music and sometimes with conversation. I am sure Miss Fairfax must have found the evening pleasant, Emma. You left nothing undone. I was glad you made her play so much, for having no instrument at her grandmother’s, it must have been a real indulgence.’
“这是一个非常愉快的夜晚，”当伍德豪斯先生被告知必要的事情并被告知他明白之后，文件就被一扫而空，他开始说道：“特别愉快。”你和费尔法克斯小姐给我们带来了一些非常好的音乐。先生，我不知道有什么比悠闲地坐着，被两个这样的年轻女子招待一整晚更奢侈的了。有时用音乐，有时用对话。我确信费尔法克斯小姐一定觉得这个夜晚很愉快，艾玛。你没有留下任何未完成的事情。我很高兴你让她演奏了这么多，因为她祖母家里没有乐器，这一定是一种真正的放纵。

‘I am happy you approved,’ said Emma, smiling; ‘but I hope I am not often deficient in what is due to guests at Hartfield.’
“我很高兴你批准了，”艾玛微笑着说道。 “但我希望我不会经常亏欠哈特菲尔德的客人。”

‘No, my dear,’ said her father instantly; ‘that I am sure you are not. There is nobody half so attentive and civil as you are. If any thing, you are too attentive. The muffin last night—if it had been handed round once, I think it would have been enough.’
“不，亲爱的，”她父亲立即说道。 ‘我确信你不是。没有人比你更细心和文明。如果有的话，你太专心了。昨晚的松饼——如果有人递过一次，我想就足够了。”

‘No,’ said Mr. Knightley, nearly at the same time; ‘you are not often deficient; not often deficient either in manner or comprehension. I think you understand me, therefore.’
“不，”奈特利先生几乎同时说道。 ‘你并不经常缺乏；在方式或理解力上并不经常有缺陷。因此，我认为你理解我。

An arch look expressed—‘I understand you well enough;’ but she said only, ‘Miss Fairfax is reserved.’
脸上露出一种拱起的表情——“我很了解你；”但她只说，“费尔法克斯小姐很矜持。”

‘I always told you she was—a little; but you will soon overcome all that part of her reserve which ought to be overcome, all that has its foundation in diffidence. What arises from discretion must be honoured.’
“我总是告诉你她是——有一点；但你很快就会克服她所有应该克服的矜持，所有这一切都建立在缺乏自信的基础上。自由裁量权产生的结果必须得到尊重。”

‘You think her diffident. I do not see it.’
‘你认为她胆怯。我没看到。'

‘My dear Emma,’ said he, moving from his chair into one close by her, ‘you are not going to tell me, I hope, that you had not a pleasant evening.’
“我亲爱的艾玛，”他从椅子上坐到她旁边的椅子上，“我希望你不会告诉我，你度过了一个不愉快的夜晚。”

‘Oh! no; I was pleased with my own perseverance in asking questions; and amused to think how little information I obtained.’
'哦！不;我对自己提问的毅力感到满意。想到我获得的信息是多么少，我感到很有趣。

‘I am disappointed,’ was his only answer.
“我很失望”，这是他唯一的回答。

‘I hope every body had a pleasant evening,’ said Mr. Woodhouse, in his quiet way. ‘I had. Once, I felt the fire rather too much; but then I moved back my chair a little, a very little, and it did not disturb me. Miss Bates was very chatty and good-humoured, as she always is, though she speaks rather too quick. However, she is very agreeable, and Mrs. Bates too, in a different way. I like old friends; and Miss Jane Fairfax is a very pretty sort of young lady, a very pretty and a very well-behaved young lady indeed. She must have found the evening agreeable, Mr. Knightley, because she had Emma.’
“我希望每个人都度过了一个愉快的夜晚，”伍德豪斯先生平静地说。 '我有过。有一次，我感受到了太多的火；但后来我把椅子向后移了一点，一点点，但这并没有打扰我。贝茨小姐一如既往地健谈、幽默，尽管她语速太快了。然而，她非常和蔼可亲，贝茨夫人也是如此，但方式有所不同。我喜欢老朋友；简·费尔法克斯小姐是一位非常漂亮的年轻女士，确实是一位非常漂亮、非常乖巧的年轻女士。奈特利先生，她一定觉得这个夜晚很愉快，因为她有艾玛。

‘True, sir; and Emma, because she had Miss Fairfax.’
“是的，先生；还有艾玛，因为她有费尔法克斯小姐。”

Emma saw his anxiety, and wishing to appease it, at least for the present, said, and with a sincerity which no one could question—
艾玛看出了他的焦虑，她希望能够平息他的焦虑，至少暂时如此，她用一种无人能质疑的真诚说道——

‘She is a sort of elegant creature that one cannot keep one’s eyes from. I am always watching her to admire; and I do pity her from my heart.’
“她是一种让人无法移开目光的优雅生物。我总是看着她，欣赏她；我确实从心里怜悯她。

Mr. Knightley looked as if he were more gratified than he cared to express; and before he could make any reply, Mr. Woodhouse, whose thoughts were on the Bates’s, said—
奈特利先生看起来似乎比他愿意表达的更满意。还没等他做出任何答复，伍德豪斯先生就想到了贝茨夫妇，说道：

‘It is a great pity that their circumstances should be so confined! a great pity indeed! and I have often wished—but it is so little one can venture to do—small, trifling presents, of any thing uncommon— Now we have killed a porker, and Emma thinks of sending them a loin or a leg; it is very small and delicate—Hartfield pork is not like any other pork—but still it is pork—and, my dear Emma, unless one could be sure of their making it into steaks, nicely fried, as ours are fried, without the smallest grease, and not roast it, for no stomach can bear roast pork—I think we had better send the leg— do not you think so, my dear?’
‘可惜他们的境遇如此有限！确实是一大遗憾！我经常希望——但这是很少有人能冒险做的——小而琐碎的礼物，任何不常见的东西——现在我们杀了一只猪肉，艾玛想送他们一条腰肉或一条腿；它很小而且很精致——哈特菲尔德猪肉不像任何其他猪肉——但它仍然是猪肉——而且，我亲爱的艾玛，除非有人能确定他们能把它做成牛排，炸得很好，就像我们的炸的一样，没有最小的油脂，不要烤它，因为没有胃能承受烤猪肉——我想我们最好把腿送去——你不这么认为吗，亲爱的？

‘My dear papa, I sent the whole hind-quarter. I knew you would wish it. There will be the leg to be salted, you know, which is so very nice, and the loin to be dressed directly in any manner they like.’
“我亲爱的爸爸，我把整个后腿都送了。我知道你会希望如此。你知道，腿会被腌制，这非常好，而腰部则可以直接按照他们喜欢的任何方式进行处理。

‘That’s right, my dear, very right. I had not thought of it before, but that is the best way. They must not over-salt the leg; and then, if it is not over-salted, and if it is very thoroughly boiled, just as Serle boils ours, and eaten very moderately of, with a boiled turnip, and a little carrot or parsnip, I do not consider it unwholesome.’
‘是的，亲爱的，非常正确。我之前没有想到，但这是最好的办法。他们不能给腿加太多盐；然后，如果它没有过咸，如果它煮得非常彻底，就像塞勒煮我们的一样，并且吃得很适量，配上煮萝卜，一点胡萝卜或欧洲防风草，我不认为它不健康。 '

‘Emma,’ said Mr. Knightley presently, ‘I have a piece of news for you. You like news—and I heard an article in my way hither that I think will interest you.’
“艾玛，”奈特利先生不久说道，“我有一个消息要告诉你。你喜欢新闻——我在这里以我的方式听到了一篇文章，我认为你会感兴趣。

‘News! Oh! yes, I always like news. What is it?—why do you smile so?—where did you hear it?—at Randalls?’
'消息！哦！是的，我一直喜欢新闻。什么事？——你为什么笑得那么开心？——你从哪里听到的？——在兰德尔斯？

He had time only to say,
他只来得及说：

‘No, not at Randalls; I have not been near Randalls,’ when the door was thrown open, and Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax walked into the room. Full of thanks, and full of news, Miss Bates knew not which to give quickest. Mr. Knightley soon saw that he had lost his moment, and that not another syllable of communication could rest with him.
“不，不是在兰德尔斯；我没有靠近兰德尔斯。”这时门被推开，贝茨小姐和费尔法克斯小姐走进了房间。贝茨小姐充满了感激之情，又充满了新的消息，她不知道该最快地给出哪一个。奈特利先生很快就发现自己已经失去了时机，他无法再用任何一个音节来交流。

‘Oh! my dear sir, how are you this morning? My dear Miss Woodhouse— I come quite over-powered. Such a beautiful hind-quarter of pork! You are too bountiful! Have you heard the news? Mr. Elton is going to be married.’
'哦！我亲爱的先生，你今天早上怎么样？我亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐——我实在是太强大了。好漂亮的猪肉后腿啊！你也太丰富了吧！你听说（这件新闻）了吗？埃尔顿先生要结婚了。

Emma had not had time even to think of Mr. Elton, and she was so completely surprized that she could not avoid a little start, and a little blush, at the sound.
艾玛甚至没有时间去想埃尔顿先生，听到这个声音她感到非常惊讶，难免有点吃惊，脸红了。

‘There is my news:—I thought it would interest you,’ said Mr. Knightley, with a smile which implied a conviction of some part of what had passed between them.
“这是我的消息：——我想你会感兴趣，”奈特利先生说道，他的微笑暗示着他对他们之间所发生的事情的某些部分深信不疑。

‘But where could you hear it?’ cried Miss Bates. ‘Where could you possibly hear it, Mr. Knightley? For it is not five minutes since I received Mrs. Cole’s note—no, it cannot be more than five— or at least ten—for I had got my bonnet and spencer on, just ready to come out—I was only gone down to speak to Patty again about the pork—Jane was standing in the passage—were not you, Jane?— for my mother was so afraid that we had not any salting-pan large enough. So I said I would go down and see, and Jane said, ‘Shall I go down instead? for I think you have a little cold, and Patty has been washing the kitchen.’—‘Oh! my dear,’ said I—well, and just then came the note. A Miss Hawkins— that’s all I know. A Miss Hawkins of Bath. But, Mr. Knightley, how could you possibly have heard it? for the very moment Mr. Cole told Mrs. Cole of it, she sat down and wrote to me. A Miss Hawkins—‘
“但是你从哪里听到的呢？”贝茨小姐喊道。 “奈特利先生，你从哪里听到的？”因为距离我收到科尔夫人的便条还不到五分钟——不，不能超过五分钟——或者至少十分钟——因为我已经戴上帽子和斯宾塞，正准备出来——我只是下楼去再次和帕蒂谈谈猪肉——简正站在过道里——不是你吗，简？——因为我母亲非常担心我们没有足够大的盐锅。所以我说我要下去看看，简说，‘我可以下去吗？因为我觉得你有点感冒了，帕蒂一直在洗厨房。”——“哦！亲爱的，”我说——好吧，就在这时，纸条来了。霍金斯小姐——这就是我所知道的。巴斯的霍金斯小姐。但是，奈特利先生，你怎么可能听到呢？就在科尔先生告诉科尔夫人这件事的那一刻，她坐下来写信给我。霍金斯小姐——”

‘I was with Mr. Cole on business an hour and a half ago. He had just read Elton’s letter as I was shewn in, and handed it to me directly.’
“一个半小时前我和科尔先生一起出差。当我被带进来时，他刚刚读了埃尔顿的信，然后直接把它交给了我。

‘Well! that is quite—I suppose there never was a piece of news more generally interesting. My dear sir, you really are too bountiful. My mother desires her very best compliments and regards, and a thousand thanks, and says you really quite oppress her.’
'出色地！确实如此——我想没有哪条新闻比这更有趣了。亲爱的先生，您真是太慷慨了。我母亲希望得到她最好的赞美和问候，以及一千次感谢，并说你真的很压迫她。

‘We consider our Hartfield pork,’ replied Mr. Woodhouse—‘indeed it certainly is, so very superior to all other pork, that Emma and I cannot have a greater pleasure than—-‘
“我们认为我们的哈特菲尔德猪肉，”伍德豪斯先生回答道，“确实，它比所有其他猪肉都优越，艾玛和我没有比这更高兴的了——”

‘Oh! my dear sir, as my mother says, our friends are only too good to us. If ever there were people who, without having great wealth themselves, had every thing they could wish for, I am sure it is us. We may well say that ‘our lot is cast in a goodly heritage.’ Well, Mr. Knightley, and so you actually saw the letter; well—‘
'哦！亲爱的先生，正如我母亲所说，我们的朋友对我们太好了。如果说有个人虽然自己没有巨额财富，但却拥有他们想要的一切，我相信那就是我们。我们完全可以说“我们的命运是由美好的遗产铸就的。”好吧，奈特利先生，所以你确实看到了这封信；出色地-'

‘It was short—merely to announce—but cheerful, exulting, of course.’— Here was a sly glance at Emma. ‘He had been so fortunate as to— I forget the precise words—one has no business to remember them. The information was, as you state, that he was going to be married to a Miss Hawkins. By his style, I should imagine it just settled.’
“这件事很短——只是为了宣布——但当然是令人愉快、欣喜的。”这是狡猾地看了艾玛一眼。 “他是如此幸运，以至于——我忘记了确切的词——人们没有必要记住它们。正如你所说，信息是他将要与霍金斯小姐结婚。按照他的风格，我应该想象事情已经解决了。

‘Mr. Elton going to be married!’ said Emma, as soon as she could speak. ‘He will have every body’s wishes for his happiness.’
'先生。埃尔顿要结婚了！”艾玛一会说话就说道。 “他会满足所有人对他幸福的愿望。”

‘He is very young to settle,’ was Mr. Woodhouse’s observation. ‘He had better not be in a hurry. He seemed to me very well off as he was. We were always glad to see him at Hartfield.’
伍德豪斯先生评论道：“他还太年轻，无法安定下来。” “他最好不要着急。在我看来，他本来就过得很好。我们总是很高兴在哈特菲尔德见到他。

‘A new neighbour for us all, Miss Woodhouse!’ said Miss Bates, joyfully; ‘my mother is so pleased!—she says she cannot bear to have the poor old Vicarage without a mistress. This is great news, indeed. Jane, you have never seen Mr. Elton!—no wonder that you have such a curiosity to see him.’
“伍德豪斯小姐，我们大家的新邻居！”贝茨小姐高兴地说。 “我的母亲非常高兴！——她说她无法忍受可怜的老牧师住宅没有情妇。这确实是个好消息。简，你从来没有见过埃尔顿先生！难怪你这么好奇想见见他。

Jane’s curiosity did not appear of that absorbing nature as wholly to occupy her.
简的好奇心似乎并没有完全占据她的注意力。

‘No—I have never seen Mr. Elton,’ she replied, starting on this appeal; ‘is he—is he a tall man?’
“不——我从来没有见过埃尔顿先生，”她回答道，并开始呼吁。 “他——他是个高个子吗？”

‘Who shall answer that question?’ cried Emma. ‘My father would say ‘yes,’ Mr. Knightley ‘no;’ and Miss Bates and I that he is just the happy medium. When you have been here a little longer, Miss Fairfax, you will understand that Mr. Elton is the standard of perfection in Highbury, both in person and mind.’
“谁来回答这个问题？”艾玛喊道。 “我父亲会说‘是’，奈特利先生会说‘不’；而我和贝茨小姐则认为他只是一个折衷的办法。”费尔法克斯小姐，等你在这里呆得久一点，你就会明白，埃尔顿先生无论是在性格上还是在思想上都是海布里完美的标准。

‘Very true, Miss Woodhouse, so she will. He is the very best young man—But, my dear Jane, if you remember, I told you yesterday he was precisely the height of Mr. Perry. Miss Hawkins,—I dare say, an excellent young woman. His extreme attention to my mother— wanting her to sit in the vicarage pew, that she might hear the better, for my mother is a little deaf, you know—it is not much, but she does not hear quite quick. Jane says that Colonel Campbell is a little deaf. He fancied bathing might be good for it—the warm bath— but she says it did him no lasting benefit. Colonel Campbell, you know, is quite our angel. And Mr. Dixon seems a very charming young man, quite worthy of him. It is such a happiness when good people get together—and they always do. Now, here will be Mr. Elton and Miss Hawkins; and there are the Coles, such very good people; and the Perrys—I suppose there never was a happier or a better couple than Mr. and Mrs. Perry. I say, sir,’ turning to Mr. Woodhouse, ‘I think there are few places with such society as Highbury. I always say, we are quite blessed in our neighbours.—My dear sir, if there is one thing my mother loves better than another, it is pork— a roast loin of pork—‘
“说得对，伍德豪斯小姐，她会的。”他是最优秀的年轻人——但是，亲爱的简，如果你还记得的话，我昨天告诉过你，他的身高正是佩里先生的身高。霍金斯小姐——我敢说，她是一位出色的年轻女性。他对我母亲极度关注——希望她坐在牧师住宅的长椅上，这样她就能听得更清楚，因为我母亲有点聋，你知道——虽然不多，但她听得不太快。简说坎贝尔上校有点聋。他认为洗澡可能有好处——洗个热水澡——但她说这对他没有持久的好处。你知道，坎贝尔上校是我们的天使。而迪克森先生看起来是一个很有魅力的年轻人，很配得上他。当好人聚在一起时真是一种幸福——而且他们总是这样做。现在，埃尔顿先生和霍金斯小姐也来了；还有科尔斯人，他们都是非常好的人；还有佩里夫妇——我想没有比佩里先生和佩里夫人更幸福或更美好的夫妻了。我说，先生，”转向伍德豪斯先生，“我认为很少有地方有像海布里这样的社会。我总是说，我们有幸拥有我们的邻居。——亲爱的先生，如果说我母亲比另一件事更喜欢一件事的话，那就是猪肉——烤里脊肉——”

‘As to who, or what Miss Hawkins is, or how long he has been acquainted with her,’ said Emma, ‘nothing I suppose can be known. One feels that it cannot be a very long acquaintance. He has been gone only four weeks.’
“至于霍金斯小姐是谁，是什么人，或者他认识她多久了，”艾玛说，“我想都无从得知。”让人感觉认识的时间不可能很长。他才离开四个星期。

Nobody had any information to give; and, after a few more wonderings, Emma said,
没有人可以提供任何信息；艾玛又想了一些之后，说道：

‘You are silent, Miss Fairfax—but I hope you mean to take an interest in this news. You, who have been hearing and seeing so much of late on these subjects, who must have been so deep in the business on Miss Campbell’s account—we shall not excuse your being indifferent about Mr. Elton and Miss Hawkins.’
“你沉默了，费尔法克斯小姐——但我希望你对这个消息感兴趣。你最近在这些话题上听到和看到了这么多，你一定对坎贝尔小姐的事务如此深入——我们不能原谅你对埃尔顿先生和霍金斯小姐的漠不关心。

‘When I have seen Mr. Elton,’ replied Jane, ‘ I dare say I shall be interested—but I believe it requires that with me. And as it is some months since Miss Campbell married, the impression may be a little worn off.’
“当我见到埃尔顿先生时，”简回答道，“我敢说我会感兴趣——但我相信这需要我这样做。”由于坎贝尔小姐结婚已有几个月了，这种印象可能已经有点消失了。

‘Yes, he has been gone just four weeks, as you observe, Miss Woodhouse,’ said Miss Bates, ‘four weeks yesterday.—A Miss Hawkins!—Well, I had always rather fancied it would be some young lady hereabouts; not that I ever—Mrs. Cole once whispered to me—but I immediately said, ‘No, Mr. Elton is a most worthy young man—but’—In short, I do not think I am particularly quick at those sort of discoveries. I do not pretend to it. What is before me, I see. At the same time, nobody could wonder if Mr. Elton should have aspired—Miss Woodhouse lets me chatter on, so good-humouredly. She knows I would not offend for the world. How does Miss Smith do? She seems quite recovered now. Have you heard from Mrs. John Knightley lately? Oh! those dear little children. Jane, do you know I always fancy Mr. Dixon like Mr. John Knightley. I mean in person—tall, and with that sort of look—and not very talkative.’
“是的，正如你所见，伍德豪斯小姐，他才走了四个星期，”贝茨小姐说，“昨天已经四个星期了。——一位霍金斯小姐！——嗯，我一直以为那会是附近的某个年轻女士；不过，我知道，她可能是个年轻的女士。”我从来没有——夫人。科尔曾经低声对我说——但我立即说，‘不，埃尔顿先生是一位最有价值的年轻人——但是’——简而言之，我认为我对这类发现的反应不是特别快。我并不假装如此。我看到了眼前的一切。与此同时，没有人会怀疑埃尔顿先生是否应该有志向——伍德豪斯小姐让我继续喋喋不休，非常幽默。她知道我不会冒犯全世界。史密斯小姐怎么样？她现在看起来已经恢复得很好了。你最近有约翰·奈特利夫人的消息吗？哦！那些亲爱的小孩子们。简，你知道吗，我一直喜欢迪克森先生，就像喜欢约翰·奈特利先生一样。我指的是面对面——身材高大，长相就是那样——而且不太爱说话。

‘Quite wrong, my dear aunt; there is no likeness at all.’
“完全错了，我亲爱的姑妈；根本没有相似之处。

‘Very odd! but one never does form a just idea of any body beforehand. One takes up a notion, and runs away with it. Mr. Dixon, you say, is not, strictly speaking, handsome?’
'很奇怪！但人们永远不会事先对任何物体形成一个公正的想法。一个人接受了一种观念，然后就抛弃了它。你说迪克森先生严格来说不帅吗？

‘Handsome! Oh! no—far from it—certainly plain. I told you he was plain.’
'英俊的！哦！不——远非如此——当然很简单。我告诉过你他很普通。

‘My dear, you said that Miss Campbell would not allow him to be plain, and that you yourself—‘
“亲爱的，你说坎贝尔小姐不允许他坦白，而你自己——”

‘Oh! as for me, my judgment is worth nothing. Where I have a regard, I always think a person well-looking. But I gave what I believed the general opinion, when I called him plain.’
'哦！对于我来说，我的判断毫无价值。在我有尊重的地方，我总是认为一个人好看。但当我称他为普通人时，我给出了我所相信的普遍意见。

‘Well, my dear Jane, I believe we must be running away. The weather does not look well, and grandmama will be uneasy. You are too obliging, my dear Miss Woodhouse; but we really must take leave. This has been a most agreeable piece of news indeed. I shall just go round by Mrs. Cole’s; but I shall not stop three minutes: and, Jane, you had better go home directly—I would not have you out in a shower!—We think she is the better for Highbury already. Thank you, we do indeed. I shall not attempt calling on Mrs. Goddard, for I really do not think she cares for any thing but boiled pork: when we dress the leg it will be another thing. Good morning to you, my dear sir. Oh! Mr. Knightley is coming too. Well, that is so very!—I am sure if Jane is tired, you will be so kind as to give her your arm.—Mr. Elton, and Miss Hawkins!—Good morning to you.’
“好吧，亲爱的简，我相信我们一定是逃跑了。天气看起来不太好，奶奶会不安的。你太乐于助人了，我亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐；但我们确实必须请假了。这确实是一个最令人愉快的消息。我就去科尔夫人那儿转转吧；但我不会停止三分钟：而且，简，你最好直接回家——我不会让你出去洗澡！——我们认为她已经更适合海布里了。谢谢，我们确实这么做了。我不会尝试去拜访戈达德夫人，因为我真的不认为她关心除了煮猪肉之外的任何东西：当我们给腿包扎时，那就是另一回事了。早上好，我亲爱的先生。哦！奈特利先生也来了。嗯，那真是太棒了！——我相信如果简累了，你会好心地伸出你的手臂给她的。——先生。埃尔顿和霍金斯小姐！——早上好。”

Emma, alone with her father, had half her attention wanted by him while he lamented that young people would be in such a hurry to marry— and to marry strangers too—and the other half she could give to her own view of the subject. It was to herself an amusing and a very welcome piece of news, as proving that Mr. Elton could not have suffered long; but she was sorry for Harriet: Harriet must feel it—and all that she could hope was, by giving the first information herself, to save her from hearing it abruptly from others. It was now about the time that she was likely to call. If she were to meet Miss Bates in her way!—and upon its beginning to rain, Emma was obliged to expect that the weather would be detaining her at Mrs. Goddard’s, and that the intelligence would undoubtedly rush upon her without preparation.
艾玛单独和她的父亲在一起，当他哀叹年轻人如此匆忙结婚——也嫁给陌生人时，她一半的注意力都被他吸引了，而另一半她可以表达自己对这个话题的看法。这对她来说是一个有趣且非常受欢迎的消息，因为它证明埃尔顿先生不会忍受太久的痛苦；但她为哈丽特感到难过：哈丽特一定能感觉到这一点——她所能希望的就是通过自己提供第一个信息，以免她突然从别人那里听到这些信息。现在大概是她打电话的时间了。如果她以她的方式遇见贝茨小姐！——天开始下雨时，爱玛不得不预料到天气会把她滞留在戈达德夫人家，而情报无疑会毫无准备地向她袭来。

The shower was heavy, but short; and it had not been over five minutes, when in came Harriet, with just the heated, agitated look which hurrying thither with a full heart was likely to give; and the ‘Oh! Miss Woodhouse, what do you think has happened!’ which instantly burst forth, had all the evidence of corresponding perturbation. As the blow was given, Emma felt that she could not now shew greater kindness than in listening; and Harriet, unchecked, ran eagerly through what she had to tell. ‘She had set out from Mrs. Goddard’s half an hour ago—she had been afraid it would rain—she had been afraid it would pour down every moment—but she thought she might get to Hartfield first—she had hurried on as fast as possible; but then, as she was passing by the house where a young woman was making up a gown for her, she thought she would just step in and see how it went on; and though she did not seem to stay half a moment there, soon after she came out it began to rain, and she did not know what to do; so she ran on directly, as fast as she could, and took shelter at Ford’s.’—Ford’s was the principal woollen-draper, linen-draper, and haberdasher’s shop united; the shop first in size and fashion in the place.—‘And so, there she had set, without an idea of any thing in the world, full ten minutes, perhaps—when, all of a sudden, who should come in— to be sure it was so very odd!—but they always dealt at Ford’s— who should come in, but Elizabeth Martin and her brother!— Dear Miss Woodhouse! only think. I thought I should have fainted. I did not know what to do. I was sitting near the door—Elizabeth saw me directly; but he did not; he was busy with the umbrella. I am sure she saw me, but she looked away directly, and took no notice; and they both went to quite the farther end of the shop; and I kept sitting near the door!—Oh! dear; I was so miserable! I am sure I must have been as white as my gown. I could not go away you know, because of the rain; but I did so wish myself anywhere in the world but there.—Oh! dear, Miss Woodhouse—well, at last, I fancy, he looked round and saw me; for instead of going on with her buyings, they began whispering to one another. I am sure they were talking of me; and I could not help thinking that he was persuading her to speak to me—(do you think he was, Miss Woodhouse?)—for presently she came forward—came quite up to me, and asked me how I did, and seemed ready to shake hands, if I would. She did not do any of it in the same way that she used; I could see she was altered; but, however, she seemed to try to be very friendly, and we shook hands, and stood talking some time; but I know no more what I said—I was in such a tremble!—I remember she said she was sorry we never met now; which I thought almost too kind! Dear, Miss Woodhouse, I was absolutely miserable! By that time, it was beginning to hold up, and I was determined that nothing should stop me from getting away—and then—only think!— I found he was coming up towards me too—slowly you know, and as if he did not quite know what to do; and so he came and spoke, and I answered—and I stood for a minute, feeling dreadfully, you know, one can’t tell how; and then I took courage, and said it did not rain, and I must go; and so off I set; and I had not got three yards from the door, when he came after me, only to say, if I was going to Hartfield, he thought I had much better go round by Mr. Cole’s stables, for I should find the near way quite floated by this rain. Oh! dear, I thought it would have been the death of me! So I said, I was very much obliged to him: you know I could not do less; and then he went back to Elizabeth, and I came round by the stables—I believe I did—but I hardly knew where I was, or any thing about it. Oh! Miss Woodhouse, I would rather done any thing than have it happen: and yet, you know, there was a sort of satisfaction in seeing him behave so pleasantly and so kindly. And Elizabeth, too. Oh! Miss Woodhouse, do talk to me and make me comfortable again.’
阵雨很大，但时间很短。还不到五分钟，哈丽雅特就进来了，她的表情很激动，很激动，就像全心全意地赶来的人一样。和‘哦！伍德豪斯小姐，你认为发生了什么！”这句话立刻爆发出来，有相应的扰动的所有证据。当这一击打下来时，艾玛觉得她现在不能表现出比倾听更大的善意了。哈丽雅特不加限制地急切地讲述着她要讲述的事情。 “她半小时前从戈达德夫人家出发——她一直担心会下雨——她担心每时每刻都会倾盆大雨——但她认为她可能会先到达哈特菲尔德——她以最快的速度赶了过去。可能的;但后来，当她路过那所房子时，一位年轻女子正在为她做一件礼服，她想进去看看事情进展如何；虽然她似乎没有在那里停留半分钟，但她出来后不久就下雨了，她不知道该怎么办。于是她就直接跑了，尽可能快地跑到福特店避难。商店在规模和时尚上都是当地第一的。——“于是，她就在那里，对世界上的任何事情一无所知，整整十分钟，也许——当，突然间，谁应该进来——当然这很奇怪！——但他们总是在福特公司做生意——谁应该进来，但伊丽莎白·马丁和她的兄弟！——亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐！只想到。我想我应该昏过去的。我不知道该怎么办。我坐在靠近门的地方——伊丽莎白直接看到了我。但他没有；他正忙着撑伞。 我确信她看到了我，但她直接移开了视线，没有注意到；他们俩走到了商店的另一端。我一直坐在靠近门的地方！——哦！亲爱的;我真是太惨了！我确信我一定和我的礼服一样白。你知道，因为下雨，我无法离开；但我确实希望自己在世界上任何地方，除了那里。——哦！亲爱的，伍德豪斯小姐——好吧，我想，他终于环顾四周，看到了我。因为他们没有继续买东西，而是开始互相窃窃私语。我确信他们正在谈论我；我情不自禁地认为他是在说服她跟我说话——（伍德豪斯小姐，你认为他是这样吗？）——因为不久她就走了过来——走到我面前，问我做得怎么样，似乎已经准备好了。如果我愿意的话，握手。她所做的任何事情都与她以前使用的方式不同。我看得出来她变了；不过，她似乎表现得非常友好，我们握了握手，站着聊了一会儿。但我不知道我说了什么——我浑身发抖！——我记得她说她很遗憾我们现在没有见面；她说她很抱歉我们现在没有见面。我觉得这太仁慈了！亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，我真是太痛苦了！到那时，它开始坚持下去，我决心没有什么可以阻止我离开——然后——想想吧！——我发现他也向我走来——你知道，慢慢地，就好像他这样做了一样不太知道该怎么做；于是他过来说话，我回答——我站了一会儿，感觉很可怕，你知道，人们说不出是怎么回事；然后我鼓起勇气，说没有下雨，我必须走了。我就这样出发了；我离门还不到三码，他就追上来，只是说，如果我要去哈特菲尔德，他认为我最好绕过先生。 科尔的马厩，因为我应该发现附近的路被这场雨弄得漂起来了。哦！亲爱的，我以为这就是我的死期！所以我说，我非常感谢他：你知道我不能少做；然后他又回到了伊丽莎白身边，而我则经过马厩——我相信我做到了——但我几乎不知道自己在哪里，或者对此一无所知。哦！伍德豪斯小姐，我宁愿做任何事，也不愿让它发生：然而，你知道，看到他表现得如此愉快和友善，我有一种满足感。还有伊丽莎白。哦！伍德豪斯小姐，请跟我说话，让我再次感到舒服。’

Very sincerely did Emma wish to do so; but it was not immediately in her power. She was obliged to stop and think. She was not thoroughly comfortable herself. The young man’s conduct, and his sister’s, seemed the result of real feeling, and she could not but pity them. As Harriet described it, there had been an interesting mixture of wounded affection and genuine delicacy in their behaviour. But she had believed them to be well-meaning, worthy people before; and what difference did this make in the evils of the connexion? It was folly to be disturbed by it. Of course, he must be sorry to lose her—they must be all sorry. Ambition, as well as love, had probably been mortified. They might all have hoped to rise by Harriet’s acquaintance: and besides, what was the value of Harriet’s description?—So easily pleased—so little discerning;— what signified her praise?
艾玛非常真诚地希望这样做。但这并不立即在她的权力范围内。她不得不停下来思考。她自己也不太舒服。年轻人的行为，还有他妹妹的行为，似乎都是真情实感的结果，她不禁为他们感到怜悯。正如哈丽特描述的那样，他们的行为中有趣地混合了受伤的感情和真诚的温柔。但她以前曾相信他们是善意的、有价值的人；这对这种联系的罪恶有什么影响呢？被它打扰是愚蠢的。当然，他一定为失去她而感到遗憾——他们一定都感到遗憾。野心和爱情可能都受到了羞辱。他们可能都希望因哈丽特的相识而上升：此外，哈丽特的描述有什么价值？——那么容易高兴——那么缺乏洞察力；——对她的赞扬意味着什么？

She exerted herself, and did try to make her comfortable, by considering all that had passed as a mere trifle, and quite unworthy of being dwelt on,
她竭尽全力，确实试图让她感到舒服，将过去的一切视为微不足道的小事，完全不值得细想，

‘It might be distressing, for the moment,’ said she; ‘but you seem to have behaved extremely well; and it is over—and may never— can never, as a first meeting, occur again, and therefore you need not think about it.’
“暂时可能会令人痛苦，”她说。 ‘但你看起来表现得非常好；它已经结束了——而且可能永远不会——永远不会像第一次见面那样再次发生，因此你不需要考虑它。

Harriet said, ‘very true,’ and she ‘would not think about it;’ but still she talked of it—still she could talk of nothing else; and Emma, at last, in order to put the Martins out of her head, was obliged to hurry on the news, which she had meant to give with so much tender caution; hardly knowing herself whether to rejoice or be angry, ashamed or only amused, at such a state of mind in poor Harriet—such a conclusion of Mr. Elton’s importance with her!
哈丽雅特说，“非常正确”，她“不会去想它”；但她仍然谈论这件事——她仍然无法谈论其他的事情；爱玛最后为了把马丁一家从她的脑海中赶出去，不得不匆忙宣布这个消息，而她本来是非常小心翼翼地传达这个消息的。看到可怜的哈丽特的这种心态，她几乎不知道是该高兴还是该生气、该羞愧还是只是好笑——这就是埃尔顿先生对她的重要性的结论！

Mr. Elton’s rights, however, gradually revived. Though she did not feel the first intelligence as she might have done the day before, or an hour before, its interest soon increased; and before their first conversation was over, she had talked herself into all the sensations of curiosity, wonder and regret, pain and pleasure, as to this fortunate Miss Hawkins, which could conduce to place the Martins under proper subordination in her fancy.
然而，埃尔顿先生的权利逐渐恢复。虽然她没有像前一天或一小时前那样感受到第一个情报，但它的兴趣很快就增加了；在他们的第一次谈话结束之前，她已经对这位幸运的霍金斯小姐产生了好奇、惊奇和遗憾、痛苦和快乐的所有感觉，这有助于在她的想象中将马丁一家置于适当的从属地位。

Emma learned to be rather glad that there had been such a meeting. It had been serviceable in deadening the first shock, without retaining any influence to alarm. As Harriet now lived, the Martins could not get at her, without seeking her, where hitherto they had wanted either the courage or the condescension to seek her; for since her refusal of the brother, the sisters never had been at Mrs. Goddard’s; and a twelvemonth might pass without their being thrown together again, with any necessity, or even any power of speech.
艾玛对这次会面感到相当高兴。它在减弱第一次冲击方面很有用，但没有保留任何警报的影响。就哈丽特现在的生活而言，马丁一家如果不寻求她就无法接近她，而迄今为止，他们要么需要勇气，要么需要居高临下的态度来寻找她。因为自从戈达德夫人拒绝了哥哥之后，姐妹们就再也没有去过戈达德夫人家。十二个月过去了，他们仍然没有再聚在一起，没有任何必要，甚至没有任何言语能力。

Chapter IV
第四章

Human nature is so well disposed towards those who are in interesting situations, that a young person, who either marries or dies, is sure of being kindly spoken of.
人性对那些处境有趣的人是如此友善，以至于一个年轻人，无论结婚还是去世，都一定会受到善意的谈论。

A week had not passed since Miss Hawkins’s name was first mentioned in Highbury, before she was, by some means or other, discovered to have every recommendation of person and mind; to be handsome, elegant, highly accomplished, and perfectly amiable: and when Mr. Elton himself arrived to triumph in his happy prospects, and circulate the fame of her merits, there was very little more for him to do, than to tell her Christian name, and say whose music she principally played.
自从霍金斯小姐的名字第一次在海布里被提及以来，还不到一个星期，人们就以某种方式发现她的人品和思想都值得推荐。英俊、优雅、多才多艺、和蔼可亲：当埃尔顿先生亲自到来，为自己的幸福前景而胜利，并传播她的功绩时，他除了告诉她基督教之外，别无他法姓名，并说出她主要演奏的音乐。

Mr. Elton returned, a very happy man. He had gone away rejected and mortified—disappointed in a very sanguine hope, after a series of what appeared to him strong encouragement; and not only losing the right lady, but finding himself debased to the level of a very wrong one. He had gone away deeply offended—he came back engaged to another—and to another as superior, of course, to the first, as under such circumstances what is gained always is to what is lost. He came back gay and self-satisfied, eager and busy, caring nothing for Miss Woodhouse, and defying Miss Smith.
埃尔顿先生回来​​了，他非常高兴。他离开时遭到拒绝和羞辱——在经历了一系列在他看来强烈的鼓励之后，他对非常乐观的希望感到失望。不仅失去了合适的女士，而且发现自己被贬低到一个非常错误的女士的水平。他离开时深感被冒犯——他回来时已经与另一个人订婚了——当然，另一个人比第一个更优越，因为在这种情况下，得到的总是大于失去的。他回来时心情愉快，自我满足，急切而忙碌，对伍德豪斯小姐毫不关心，并且蔑视史密斯小姐。

The charming Augusta Hawkins, in addition to all the usual advantages of perfect beauty and merit, was in possession of an independent fortune, of so many thousands as would always be called ten; a point of some dignity, as well as some convenience: the story told well; he had not thrown himself away—he had gained a woman of 10,000 l. or thereabouts; and he had gained her with such delightful rapidity— the first hour of introduction had been so very soon followed by distinguishing notice; the history which he had to give Mrs. Cole of the rise and progress of the affair was so glorious—the steps so quick, from the accidental rencontre, to the dinner at Mr. Green’s, and the party at Mrs. Brown’s—smiles and blushes rising in importance— with consciousness and agitation richly scattered—the lady had been so easily impressed—so sweetly disposed—had in short, to use a most intelligible phrase, been so very ready to have him, that vanity and prudence were equally contented.
迷人的奥古斯塔·霍金斯除了拥有完美的美貌和功德等常见的优点外，还拥有一笔独立的财产，有数千人，通常被称为十人；有一定尊严，也有一定便利：故事讲得好；他并没有抛弃自己——他得到了一个一万升的女人。或大约；他以如此令人愉快的速度赢得了她——介绍的第一个小时很快就引起了人们的注意。他必须向科尔夫人讲述这件事的兴起和进展的历史是如此辉煌——从偶然的相遇，到在格林先生家吃晚饭，再到在布朗夫人家举行聚会——步骤如此之快——微笑着，脸红越来越重要——意识和激动充分分散——这位女士是如此容易被打动——如此甜蜜——简而言之，用一句最容易理解的短语来说，她已经准备好拥有他了，虚荣心和谨慎心同样满足。

He had caught both substance and shadow—both fortune and affection, and was just the happy man he ought to be; talking only of himself and his own concerns—expecting to be congratulated—ready to be laughed at—and, with cordial, fearless smiles, now addressing all the young ladies of the place, to whom, a few weeks ago, he would have been more cautiously gallant.
他既抓住了物质，也抓住了阴影——既抓住了财富，又抓住了感情，他就是一个他应该成为的幸福的人。只谈论他自己和他自己的担忧——期望得到祝贺——准备好被嘲笑——并且带着亲切、无所畏惧的微笑，现在向这个地方的所有年轻女士讲话，几周前，他会向她们讲话。更加谨慎英勇。

The wedding was no distant event, as the parties had only themselves to please, and nothing but the necessary preparations to wait for; and when he set out for Bath again, there was a general expectation, which a certain glance of Mrs. Cole’s did not seem to contradict, that when he next entered Highbury he would bring his bride.
婚礼并不是遥远的事情，因为各方只需要取悦自己，除了必要的准备工作之外别无他法。当他再次出发前往巴斯时，人们普遍期望，当他下次进入海布里时，他会带着他的新娘，科尔夫人的目光似乎并不矛盾。

During his present short stay, Emma had barely seen him; but just enough to feel that the first meeting was over, and to give her the impression of his not being improved by the mixture of pique and pretension, now spread over his air. She was, in fact, beginning very much to wonder that she had ever thought him pleasing at all; and his sight was so inseparably connected with some very disagreeable feelings, that, except in a moral light, as a penance, a lesson, a source of profitable humiliation to her own mind, she would have been thankful to be assured of never seeing him again. She wished him very well; but he gave her pain, and his welfare twenty miles off would administer most satisfaction.
在他短暂停留期间，艾玛几乎没见过他。但足以让她感觉到第一次见面已经结束了，并且给她的印象是，他的气愤和自负现在散布在他的空气中，并没有得到改善。事实上，她开始怀疑自己是否曾经认为他讨人喜欢。他的视线与一些非常令人不快的感觉密不可分，以至于除了从道德角度来看，作为一种忏悔，一种教训，一种对她自己的心灵有利可图的羞辱的来源，她会庆幸自己永远不会见到他。再次。她祝他一切顺利。但他给了她痛苦，二十英里外的他的幸福将给她带来最大的满足。

The pain of his continued residence in Highbury, however, must certainly be lessened by his marriage. Many vain solicitudes would be prevented— many awkwardnesses smoothed by it. A Mrs. Elton would be an excuse for any change of intercourse; former intimacy might sink without remark. It would be almost beginning their life of civility again.
然而，他继续居住在海布里的痛苦肯定会因他的婚姻而减轻。许多徒劳的关心都会被避免，许多尴尬也会因此而平息。埃尔顿夫人会成为任何改变交往的借口。以前的亲密关系可能会在不加评论的情况下消失。这几乎又要开始他们的文明生活了。

Of the lady, individually, Emma thought very little. She was good enough for Mr. Elton, no doubt; accomplished enough for Highbury— handsome enough—to look plain, probably, by Harriet’s side. As to connexion, there Emma was perfectly easy; persuaded, that after all his own vaunted claims and disdain of Harriet, he had done nothing. On that article, truth seemed attainable. What she was, must be uncertain; but who she was, might be found out; and setting aside the 10,000 l., it did not appear that she was at all Harriet’s superior. She brought no name, no blood, no alliance. Miss Hawkins was the youngest of the two daughters of a Bristol— merchant, of course, he must be called; but, as the whole of the profits of his mercantile life appeared so very moderate, it was not unfair to guess the dignity of his line of trade had been very moderate also. Part of every winter she had been used to spend in Bath; but Bristol was her home, the very heart of Bristol; for though the father and mother had died some years ago, an uncle remained— in the law line—nothing more distinctly honourable was hazarded of him, than that he was in the law line; and with him the daughter had lived. Emma guessed him to be the drudge of some attorney, and too stupid to rise. And all the grandeur of the connexion seemed dependent on the elder sister, who was very well married, to a gentleman in a great way, near Bristol, who kept two carriages! That was the wind-up of the history; that was the glory of Miss Hawkins.
艾玛对这位女士个人的想法很少。毫无疑问，她对埃尔顿先生来说已经足够好了。对于海布里来说，他已经足够有成就了——足够英俊——在哈丽特身边也许看起来很普通。至于交往方面，艾玛在这儿是非常容易的。他相信，在他自己吹嘘自己的主张和对哈丽特的蔑视之后，他什么也没做。在那篇文章中，真相似乎是可以实现的。她到底是什么，一定是不确定的；但她是谁，可能会被查出来；抛开那一万升不谈，她似乎根本不比哈丽特优越。她没有带来名字，没有血统，没有联盟。霍金斯小姐是布里斯托尔一位商人的两个女儿中最小的一个，当然，他必须被称为商人。但是，由于他的商业生活的整体利润显得非常温和，因此猜测他的贸易行业的尊严也非常温和也是不公平的。每年冬天，她都会有部分时间在巴斯度过。但布里斯托尔是她的家，是布里斯托尔的心脏。因为虽然父母几年前就去世了，但他的叔叔仍然在法律行列中，没有什么比他在法律行列中更值得尊敬的了。女儿也和他住在一起。艾玛猜想他是某位律师的苦力，而且太蠢了，无法起身。这种联系的所有宏伟似乎都取决于姐姐，她嫁得很好，嫁给了布里斯托尔附近的一位绅士，他拥有两辆马车！这就是历史的结局。这就是霍金斯小姐的荣耀。

Could she but have given Harriet her feelings about it all! She had talked her into love; but, alas! she was not so easily to be talked out of it. The charm of an object to occupy the many vacancies of Harriet’s mind was not to be talked away. He might be superseded by another; he certainly would indeed; nothing could be clearer; even a Robert Martin would have been sufficient; but nothing else, she feared, would cure her. Harriet was one of those, who, having once begun, would be always in love. And now, poor girl! she was considerably worse from this reappearance of Mr. Elton. She was always having a glimpse of him somewhere or other. Emma saw him only once; but two or three times every day Harriet was sure just to meet with him, or just to miss him, just to hear his voice, or see his shoulder, just to have something occur to preserve him in her fancy, in all the favouring warmth of surprize and conjecture. She was, moreover, perpetually hearing about him; for, excepting when at Hartfield, she was always among those who saw no fault in Mr. Elton, and found nothing so interesting as the discussion of his concerns; and every report, therefore, every guess—all that had already occurred, all that might occur in the arrangement of his affairs, comprehending income, servants, and furniture, was continually in agitation around her. Her regard was receiving strength by invariable praise of him, and her regrets kept alive, and feelings irritated by ceaseless repetitions of Miss Hawkins’s happiness, and continual observation of, how much he seemed attached!— his air as he walked by the house—the very sitting of his hat, being all in proof of how much he was in love!
她能不能向哈丽特表达她对这一切的感受！她已经说服她爱上了她；可惜！她可没那么容易被劝说放弃。占据哈丽特心灵许多空缺的物体的魅力是不容谈论的。他可能会被另一个人取代；他当然会的；没有什么比这更清楚的了；即使是罗伯特·马丁也足够了；但她担心没有其他办法可以治愈她。哈丽特就是其中之一，一旦开始，就会永远陷入爱情。现在，可怜的女孩！由于埃尔顿先生的再次出现，她的情况变得更加糟糕。她总能在某个地方瞥见他。艾玛只见过他一次；但哈丽特每天有两三次肯定只是为了与他见​​面，或者只是为了想念他，只是为了听到他的声音，或者看到他的肩膀，只是为了发生一些事情来把他保留在她的想象中，保留在所有有利的温暖中充满惊喜和猜想。此外，她还不断听说他的事迹。因为，除了在哈特菲尔德的时候，她总是认为埃尔顿先生没有任何过错，并且觉得没有什么比讨论他的担忧更有趣的了。因此，每一个报告，每一个猜测——所有已经发生的事情，所有在他的事务安排中可能发生的事情，包括收入、仆人和家具，都不断地在她周围骚动。她对他的不断赞扬使她对他的关心越来越强烈，而她的悔恨却一直存在，她的感情因不断重复霍金斯小姐的幸福而感到恼怒，并不断观察他似乎有多么依恋！——他走过房子时的神态——非常坐在他的帽子上，这一切都证明了他有多么相爱！

Had it been allowable entertainment, had there been no pain to her friend, or reproach to herself, in the waverings of Harriet’s mind, Emma would have been amused by its variations. Sometimes Mr. Elton predominated, sometimes the Martins; and each was occasionally useful as a check to the other. Mr. Elton’s engagement had been the cure of the agitation of meeting Mr. Martin. The unhappiness produced by the knowledge of that engagement had been a little put aside by Elizabeth Martin’s calling at Mrs. Goddard’s a few days afterwards. Harriet had not been at home; but a note had been prepared and left for her, written in the very style to touch; a small mixture of reproach, with a great deal of kindness; and till Mr. Elton himself appeared, she had been much occupied by it, continually pondering over what could be done in return, and wishing to do more than she dared to confess. But Mr. Elton, in person, had driven away all such cares. While he staid, the Martins were forgotten; and on the very morning of his setting off for Bath again, Emma, to dissipate some of the distress it occasioned, judged it best for her to return Elizabeth Martin’s visit.
如果这是允许的娱乐，如果哈丽特的思想摇摆不定给她的朋友带来痛苦，或者对她自己没有责备，艾玛就会被它的变化逗乐。有时埃尔顿先生占主导地位，有时马丁一家占主导地位；有时候，两者都可以作为对对方的制约。埃尔顿先生的订婚缓解了与马丁先生见面时的激动情绪。几天后伊丽莎白·马丁拜访戈达德夫人家，稍稍缓解了因得知订婚消息而产生的不快。哈丽特不在家。但已经为她准备了一张纸条，写得非常触手可及。少量的责备和大量的善意混合在一起；在埃尔顿先生亲自出现之前，她一直沉浸在这件事中，不断地思考可以做些什么来回报，并希望做比她敢于承认的更多的事情。但埃尔顿先生亲自打消了所有这些忧虑。当他停下来的时候，马丁一家就被遗忘了。在他再次出发前往巴斯的当天早上，艾玛为了消除由此带来的一些痛苦，认为最好回访伊丽莎白·马丁。

How that visit was to be acknowledged—what would be necessary— and what might be safest, had been a point of some doubtful consideration. Absolute neglect of the mother and sisters, when invited to come, would be ingratitude. It must not be: and yet the danger of a renewal of the acquaintance!—
如何承认这次访问——什么是必要的——以及什么可能是最安全的，一直是一些令人怀疑的考虑问题。当母亲和姐妹受邀前来时，完全忽视他们就是忘恩负义。一定不是这样的：然而，又有重逢的危险！——

After much thinking, she could determine on nothing better, than Harriet’s returning the visit; but in a way that, if they had understanding, should convince them that it was to be only a formal acquaintance. She meant to take her in the carriage, leave her at the Abbey Mill, while she drove a little farther, and call for her again so soon, as to allow no time for insidious applications or dangerous recurrences to the past, and give the most decided proof of what degree of intimacy was chosen for the future.
经过深思熟虑，她无法做出比哈丽特回访更好的决定。但在某种程度上，如果他们能够理解的话，应该让他们相信这只是一种正式的认识。她打算把她带上马车，把她留在修道院磨坊，等她再开远一点，然后尽快再次叫她，以免有时间阴险地应用或危险地重蹈过去的覆辙，并给予最大的帮助。决定了未来选择的亲密程度的证据。

She could think of nothing better: and though there was something in it which her own heart could not approve—something of ingratitude, merely glossed over—it must be done, or what would become of Harriet?
她想不出更好的办法了：虽然其中有一些她自己内心无法认可的东西——一些忘恩负义的东西，只是被掩盖了——但它必须完成，否则哈丽特会怎么样？

Chapter V
第五章

Small heart had Harriet for visiting. Only half an hour before her friend called for her at Mrs. Goddard’s, her evil stars had led her to the very spot where, at that moment, a trunk, directed to The Rev. Philip Elton, White-Hart, Bath, was to be seen under the operation of being lifted into the butcher’s cart, which was to convey it to where the coaches past; and every thing in this world, excepting that trunk and the direction, was consequently a blank.
小心脏有哈丽特来看望。就在她的朋友到戈达德夫人家里叫她的前半小时，她的邪恶之星把她带到了那个地方，就在那一刻，一只箱子，指向巴斯白鹿市的菲利普·埃尔顿牧师，是要装的。在被提升到屠夫车的操作中可以看到，这是将其运送到马车经过的地方；于是，这个世界上的一切，除了那个树干和方向之外，都是一片空白。

She went, however; and when they reached the farm, and she was to be put down, at the end of the broad, neat gravel walk, which led between espalier apple-trees to the front door, the sight of every thing which had given her so much pleasure the autumn before, was beginning to revive a little local agitation; and when they parted, Emma observed her to be looking around with a sort of fearful curiosity, which determined her not to allow the visit to exceed the proposed quarter of an hour. She went on herself, to give that portion of time to an old servant who was married, and settled in Donwell.
然而她还是去了；当他们到达农场时，她将在宽阔、整洁的碎石路尽头被放下，这条路在苹果树之间通往前门，眼前的一切都给了她如此多的快乐去年秋天，当地开始出现一点骚动。当他们分开时，艾玛发现她带着一种可怕的好奇心环顾四周，这决定了她不允许这次访问超过预定的一刻钟。她自己把那部分时间交给了一位已婚并定居在唐威尔的老仆人。

The quarter of an hour brought her punctually to the white gate again; and Miss Smith receiving her summons, was with her without delay, and unattended by any alarming young man. She came solitarily down the gravel walk—a Miss Martin just appearing at the door, and parting with her seemingly with ceremonious civility.
一刻钟后，她又准时来到了白色大门前。史密斯小姐接到她的传唤后，立即赶到了她身边，也没有任何令人惊慌的年轻人在场。她独自沿着碎石路走来——马丁小姐刚刚出现在门口，并看似彬彬有礼地与她告别。

Harriet could not very soon give an intelligible account. She was feeling too much; but at last Emma collected from her enough to understand the sort of meeting, and the sort of pain it was creating. She had seen only Mrs. Martin and the two girls. They had received her doubtingly, if not coolly; and nothing beyond the merest commonplace had been talked almost all the time— till just at last, when Mrs. Martin’s saying, all of a sudden, that she thought Miss Smith was grown, had brought on a more interesting subject, and a warmer manner. In that very room she had been measured last September, with her two friends. There were the pencilled marks and memorandums on the wainscot by the window. He had done it. They all seemed to remember the day, the hour, the party, the occasion—to feel the same consciousness, the same regrets—to be ready to return to the same good understanding; and they were just growing again like themselves, (Harriet, as Emma must suspect, as ready as the best of them to be cordial and happy,) when the carriage reappeared, and all was over. The style of the visit, and the shortness of it, were then felt to be decisive. Fourteen minutes to be given to those with whom she had thankfully passed six weeks not six months ago!—Emma could not but picture it all, and feel how justly they might resent, how naturally Harriet must suffer. It was a bad business. She would have given a great deal, or endured a great deal, to have had the Martins in a higher rank of life. They were so deserving, that a little higher should have been enough: but as it was, how could she have done otherwise?—Impossible!—She could not repent. They must be separated; but there was a great deal of pain in the process— so much to herself at this time, that she soon felt the necessity of a little consolation, and resolved on going home by way of Randalls to procure it. Her mind was quite sick of Mr. Elton and the Martins. The refreshment of Randalls was absolutely necessary.
哈丽特无法很快给出一个可以理解的解释。她感觉太多了；但最后，艾玛从她那里收集到了足够多的信息，让她明白了这次会面的性质，以及它所造成的痛苦。她只看到马丁太太和两个女孩。他们对她的接待即使不是冷淡，也是半信半疑。几乎一直以来，除了最平常的事情之外，没有什么话题被谈论——直到最后，马丁太太突然说，她认为史密斯小姐已经长大了，这引起了一个更有趣的话题，而且态度也更温暖了。 。去年九月，她和两个朋友就是在那个房间里接受测量的。窗边的壁板上有铅笔做的记号和备忘录。他已经做到了。他们似乎都记得那一天、那个时刻、那个聚会、那个场合——感受到同样的意识，同样的遗憾——准备好回到同样的良好理解；他们刚刚又像自己一样长大了（哈丽特，艾玛肯定怀疑，像他们中最好的人一样准备好变得热情和快乐）当马车重新出现时，一切都结束了。这次访问的风格和时间的短暂被认为是决定性的。十四分钟的时间是给那些幸运地与她一起度过了六周而不是六个月前的人的！——艾玛忍不住想象这一切，并感到他们可能会多么公正地怨恨，哈丽特必须多么自然地受苦。这是一笔糟糕的生意。为了让马丁一家过上更高的生活，她愿意付出很多，或者忍受很多。他们是如此应得的，稍微高一点就足够了：但事实上，她还能怎么做？——不可能！——她无法悔改。 他们必须分开；但这个过程中也伴随着巨大的痛苦——此时对她自己来说太痛苦了，以至于她很快就感到需要一点安慰，并决定通过兰德尔斯回家去获得它。她对埃尔顿先生和马丁一家感到非常厌烦。兰德尔斯的茶点是绝对必要的。

It was a good scheme; but on driving to the door they heard that neither ‘master nor mistress was at home;’ they had both been out some time; the man believed they were gone to Hartfield.
这是一个很好的计划；但当他们开车到门口时，他们听说“主人和太太都不在家”；他们都出去了一段时间了；该男子相信他们已经去了哈特菲尔德。

‘This is too bad,’ cried Emma, as they turned away. ‘And now we shall just miss them; too provoking!—I do not know when I have been so disappointed.’ And she leaned back in the corner, to indulge her murmurs, or to reason them away; probably a little of both— such being the commonest process of a not ill-disposed mind. Presently the carriage stopt; she looked up; it was stopt by Mr. and Mrs. Weston, who were standing to speak to her. There was instant pleasure in the sight of them, and still greater pleasure was conveyed in sound—for Mr. Weston immediately accosted her with,
“这太糟糕了，”当他们转身离开时，艾玛喊道。 “现在我们会想念他们；太令人恼火了！——我不知道我什么时候这么失望过。”她向后靠在角落里，放纵她的抱怨，或者说服他们离开；但她却把这些话都说出来了。也许两者都有一点——这是一个心性不坏的人最常见的过程。不久，马车停下来了。她抬起头来；韦斯顿夫妇阻止了他们，他们站起来和她说话。一看到他们就立刻感到高兴，而更大的高兴是通过声音传达出来的——因为韦斯顿先生立即向她搭话，

‘How d’ye do?—how d’ye do?—We have been sitting with your father— glad to see him so well. Frank comes to-morrow—I had a letter this morning—we see him to-morrow by dinner-time to a certainty— he is at Oxford to-day, and he comes for a whole fortnight; I knew it would be so. If he had come at Christmas he could not have staid three days; I was always glad he did not come at Christmas; now we are going to have just the right weather for him, fine, dry, settled weather. We shall enjoy him completely; every thing has turned out exactly as we could wish.’
“你好吗？——你好吗？——我们一直和你父亲坐在一起——很高兴看到他这么好。弗兰克明天来——我今天早上收到一封信——我们肯定会在明天晚餐时间见到他——他今天在牛津，他来了整整两周；我就知道会这样。如果他是在圣诞节来的，他不可能呆三天；我一直很高兴他圣诞节没有来。现在我们将迎来适合他的天气，晴朗、干燥、稳定的天气。我们将完全享受他；一切都如我们所愿。”

There was no resisting such news, no possibility of avoiding the influence of such a happy face as Mr. Weston’s, confirmed as it all was by the words and the countenance of his wife, fewer and quieter, but not less to the purpose. To know that she thought his coming certain was enough to make Emma consider it so, and sincerely did she rejoice in their joy. It was a most delightful reanimation of exhausted spirits. The worn-out past was sunk in the freshness of what was coming; and in the rapidity of half a moment’s thought, she hoped Mr. Elton would now be talked of no more.
听到这样的消息，我们无法抗拒，也无法避免像韦斯顿先生那样幸福的脸庞的影响，这一切都从他妻子的言语和表情中得到了证实，虽然次数较少，也比较安静，但同样达到了目的。知道她认为他一定会来，这足以让艾玛这么认为，并且她真诚地为他们的喜悦感到高兴。这是疲惫的灵魂最令人愉快的复苏。疲惫的过去被即将到来的新鲜事物所淹没。她飞快地想了半分钟，希望现在人们不再谈论埃尔顿先生了。

Mr. Weston gave her the history of the engagements at Enscombe, which allowed his son to answer for having an entire fortnight at his command, as well as the route and the method of his journey; and she listened, and smiled, and congratulated.
韦斯顿先生向她讲述了恩斯库姆的交战历史，这让他的儿子能够回答自己有整整两周的时间听从他的指挥，以及他旅行的路线和方法；她听了，微笑着表示祝贺。

‘I shall soon bring him over to Hartfield,’ said he, at the conclusion.
“我很快就会带他去哈特菲尔德，”他最后说道。

Emma could imagine she saw a touch of the arm at this speech, from his wife.
艾玛可以想象，在这次演讲中，她看到了他妻子的手臂触碰。

‘We had better move on, Mr. Weston,’ said she, ‘we are detaining the girls.’
“我们最好继续前进，韦斯顿先生，”她说，“我们正在拘留女孩们。”

‘Well, well, I am ready;’—and turning again to Emma, ‘but you must not be expecting such a very fine young man; you have only had my account you know; I dare say he is really nothing extraordinary:’— though his own sparkling eyes at the moment were speaking a very different conviction.
“好吧，好吧，我准备好了；”——然后又转向艾玛，“但是你一定没想到会有这么一个非常优秀的年轻人；你只知道我的账户；我敢说他确实没什么了不起：”——尽管他自己此刻闪闪发光的眼睛正在表达一种截然不同的信念。

Emma could look perfectly unconscious and innocent, and answer in a manner that appropriated nothing.
艾玛看上去完全没有意识、天真无邪，但回答的方式却毫不夸张。

‘Think of me to-morrow, my dear Emma, about four o’clock,’ was Mrs. Weston’s parting injunction; spoken with some anxiety, and meant only for her.
“明天四点左右，亲爱的艾玛，想想我吧。”这是韦斯顿夫人的临别嘱咐。语气有些焦虑，而且只针对她。

‘Four o’clock!—depend upon it he will be here by three,’ was Mr. Weston’s quick amendment; and so ended a most satisfactory meeting. Emma’s spirits were mounted quite up to happiness; every thing wore a different air; James and his horses seemed not half so sluggish as before. When she looked at the hedges, she thought the elder at least must soon be coming out; and when she turned round to Harriet, she saw something like a look of spring, a tender smile even there.
“四点钟！——相信他会在三点钟到这里。”韦斯顿先生迅速修正道。一次最满意的会议就这样结束了。爱玛的心情非常高兴。每一样东西都散发着不同的气息；詹姆斯和他的马匹似乎不再像以前那么迟钝了。当她看着树篱时，她想长老至少很快就会出来。当她转向哈丽特时，她看到了一种春天般的神情，甚至还有温柔的微笑。

‘Will Mr. Frank Churchill pass through Bath as well as Oxford?’— was a question, however, which did not augur much.
“弗兰克·丘吉尔先生会像牛津一样经过巴斯吗？”——这是一个问题，然而，这并不预示什么。

But neither geography nor tranquillity could come all at once, and Emma was now in a humour to resolve that they should both come in time.
但地理和宁静都无法同时到来，艾玛现在心情愉快地决定它们都应该及时到来。

The morning of the interesting day arrived, and Mrs. Weston’s faithful pupil did not forget either at ten, or eleven, or twelve o’clock, that she was to think of her at four.
有趣的一天的早晨到来了，韦斯顿夫人忠实的学生并没有忘记在十点、十一点或十二点时她要在四点想起她。

‘My dear, dear anxious friend,’—said she, in mental soliloquy, while walking downstairs from her own room, ‘always overcareful for every body’s comfort but your own; I see you now in all your little fidgets, going again and again into his room, to be sure that all is right.’ The clock struck twelve as she passed through the hall. ‘‘Tis twelve; I shall not forget to think of you four hours hence; and by this time to-morrow, perhaps, or a little later, I may be thinking of the possibility of their all calling here. I am sure they will bring him soon.’
“我亲爱的、亲爱的焦虑的朋友，”她从自己的房间走下楼时，在心里自言自语地说，“总是过分关心每个人的舒适，除了你自己的舒适;我现在看到你烦躁不安，一遍又一遍地走进他的房间，以确保一切都好。”当她穿过大厅时，时钟敲响了十二点。 “十二点了；四小时后我不会忘记想起你；也许明天这个时候，或者稍晚一些，我可能会想到他们都打电话到这里的可能性。我相信他们很快就会把他带来。

She opened the parlour door, and saw two gentlemen sitting with her father—Mr. Weston and his son. They had been arrived only a few minutes, and Mr. Weston had scarcely finished his explanation of Frank’s being a day before his time, and her father was yet in the midst of his very civil welcome and congratulations, when she appeared, to have her share of surprize, introduction, and pleasure.
她打开客厅门，看到两位绅士和她的父亲坐在一起——先生。韦斯顿和他的儿子。他们才几分钟就到达了，韦斯顿先生还没有完成对弗兰克提前一天到来的解释，当她出现时，她的父亲还在他非常礼貌的欢迎和祝贺中，欢迎她的到来。分享惊喜、介绍和快乐。

The Frank Churchill so long talked of, so high in interest, was actually before her—he was presented to her, and she did not think too much had been said in his praise; he was a very good looking young man; height, air, address, all were unexceptionable, and his countenance had a great deal of the spirit and liveliness of his father’s; he looked quick and sensible. She felt immediately that she should like him; and there was a well-bred ease of manner, and a readiness to talk, which convinced her that he came intending to be acquainted with her, and that acquainted they soon must be.
被人们如此长久谈论、如此高度关注的弗兰克·丘吉尔实际上就在她面前——他被介绍给她，她认为对他的赞扬并没有说太多；但他是一个伟大的人物。他是一个非常英俊的年轻人；身高、神态、谈吐，无一例外，他的面容很有他父亲的精神和活力。他看起来敏捷而明智。她立刻觉得自己应该喜欢他。他的举止很有教养，而且很乐意交谈，这让她相信他是来认识她的，而且他们很快就会认识的。

He had reached Randalls the evening before. She was pleased with the eagerness to arrive which had made him alter his plan, and travel earlier, later, and quicker, that he might gain half a day.
他前一天晚上就到达了兰德尔斯。她很高兴他急于到达，这使得他改变了计划，早点、晚点、快点出发，这样他就可以多待半天。

‘I told you yesterday,’ cried Mr. Weston with exultation, ‘I told you all that he would be here before the time named. I remembered what I used to do myself. One cannot creep upon a journey; one cannot help getting on faster than one has planned; and the pleasure of coming in upon one’s friends before the look-out begins, is worth a great deal more than any little exertion it needs.’
“我昨天就告诉过你们了，”韦斯顿先生兴奋地喊道，“我告诉过你们所有人，他会在指定的时间之前到达这里。”我想起了我自己曾经做过的事情。一个人不可能爬行一段旅程；人们无法控制地比计划的进展得更快；在瞭望开始之前见到朋友的乐趣，比任何一点努力都更值得。

‘It is a great pleasure where one can indulge in it,’ said the young man, ‘though there are not many houses that I should presume on so far; but in coming home I felt I might do any thing.’
“能沉迷其中，真是一件幸事，”年轻人说道，“虽然到目前为止，我能想象到的房子并不多；但回家后我觉得我可以做任何事情。

The word home made his father look on him with fresh complacency. Emma was directly sure that he knew how to make himself agreeable; the conviction was strengthened by what followed. He was very much pleased with Randalls, thought it a most admirably arranged house, would hardly allow it even to be very small, admired the situation, the walk to Highbury, Highbury itself, Hartfield still more, and professed himself to have always felt the sort of interest in the country which none but one’s own country gives, and the greatest curiosity to visit it. That he should never have been able to indulge so amiable a feeling before, passed suspiciously through Emma’s brain; but still, if it were a falsehood, it was a pleasant one, and pleasantly handled. His manner had no air of study or exaggeration. He did really look and speak as if in a state of no common enjoyment.
“回家”这个词让他的父亲用一种新的自满的目光看着他。艾玛确信他知道如何让自己变得和蔼可亲。随后发生的事情更加坚定了这一信念。他对兰德尔斯非常满意，认为这是一栋布置得最令人钦佩的房子，甚至不允许它很小，欣赏这里的情况，欣赏到海布里、海布里本身、哈特菲尔德的步行路程，并声称自己一直感受到对这个国家的兴趣只有自己的国家才能给予，并且对访问它有着最大的好奇心。艾玛的脑子里疑惑地闪过，他以前根本不应该有如此亲切的感觉。但即便如此，如果这是一个谎言，那也是一个令人愉快的谎言，而且处理得也很愉快。他的举止没有任何学习或夸张的气氛。他的表情和说话确实像是处于一种没有共同享受的状态。

Their subjects in general were such as belong to an opening acquaintance. On his side were the inquiries,—‘Was she a horsewoman?—Pleasant rides?— Pleasant walks?—Had they a large neighbourhood?—Highbury, perhaps, afforded society enough?—There were several very pretty houses in and about it.—Balls—had they balls?—Was it a musical society?’
他们的拍摄对象一般都是刚认识的人。他这边有这样的询问：“她是一名女骑手吗？——愉快的骑马？——愉快的散步？——他们有一个很大的街区吗？——海布里，也许，提供了足够的社交空间？——里面和周围有几座非常漂亮的房子。 ——球——他们有球吗？——这是一个音乐社团吗？

But when satisfied on all these points, and their acquaintance proportionably advanced, he contrived to find an opportunity, while their two fathers were engaged with each other, of introducing his mother-in-law, and speaking of her with so much handsome praise, so much warm admiration, so much gratitude for the happiness she secured to his father, and her very kind reception of himself, as was an additional proof of his knowing how to please— and of his certainly thinking it worth while to try to please her. He did not advance a word of praise beyond what she knew to be thoroughly deserved by Mrs. Weston; but, undoubtedly he could know very little of the matter. He understood what would be welcome; he could be sure of little else. ‘His father’s marriage,’ he said, ‘had been the wisest measure, every friend must rejoice in it; and the family from whom he had received such a blessing must be ever considered as having conferred the highest obligation on him.’
但是，当对所有这些点感到满意，并且他们的熟识也相应地增加时，他设法找到一个机会，当他们的两个父亲正在订婚时，介绍他的岳母，并用如此多的漂亮赞美来谈论她，如此多的热烈钦佩，如此多的感激她为他父亲带来的​​幸福，以及她对自己的非常友善的接待，这进一步证明了他知道如何取悦她，并且他当然认为值得尝试取悦她。他并没有提出任何超出她认为韦斯顿夫人完全应得的赞美之词。但毫无疑问，他对此事所知甚少。他知道什么是受欢迎的；除此之外，他几乎无法确定。 “他父亲的婚姻，”他说，“是最明智的举措，每个朋友都应该为此感到高兴；”他从他那里得到了这样的祝福，他的家人一定被认为赋予了他最高的义务。

He got as near as he could to thanking her for Miss Taylor’s merits, without seeming quite to forget that in the common course of things it was to be rather supposed that Miss Taylor had formed Miss Woodhouse’s character, than Miss Woodhouse Miss Taylor’s. And at last, as if resolved to qualify his opinion completely for travelling round to its object, he wound it all up with astonishment at the youth and beauty of her person.
他尽可能地感谢她泰勒小姐的优点，但似乎并没有完全忘记，在一般情况下，应该认为泰勒小姐塑造了伍德豪斯小姐的性格，而不是伍德豪斯小姐塑造了泰勒小姐的性格。最后，仿佛决心完全证明自己的观点适合环游其目的，他对她的青春和美丽感到惊讶，结束了这一切。

‘Elegant, agreeable manners, I was prepared for,’ said he; ‘but I confess that, considering every thing, I had not expected more than a very tolerably well-looking woman of a certain age; I did not know that I was to find a pretty young woman in Mrs. Weston.’
“我已经准备好接受优雅、和蔼可亲的举止了，”他说。 “但我承认，考虑到所有事情，我只期望有一个相当漂亮的特定年龄的女人；我不知道我会在韦斯顿夫人身上找到一位年轻漂亮的女人。

‘You cannot see too much perfection in Mrs. Weston for my feelings,’ said Emma; ‘were you to guess her to be eighteen, I should listen with pleasure; but she would be ready to quarrel with you for using such words. Don’t let her imagine that you have spoken of her as a pretty young woman.’
“就我的感受而言，你在韦斯顿夫人身上看不到太多完美，”艾玛说。 “如果你猜她十八岁，我会很乐意听；但她会因为你使用这样的词而准备与你争吵。不要让她以为你说她是一个年轻漂亮的女人。

‘I hope I should know better,’ he replied; ‘no, depend upon it, (with a gallant bow,) that in addressing Mrs. Weston I should understand whom I might praise without any danger of being thought extravagant in my terms.’
“我希望我能更了解，”他回答道。 “不，请相信，（带着英勇的鞠躬），在向韦斯顿夫人讲话时，我应该明白我可能赞扬谁，而不会存在被认为用我的话说得过分的危险。”

Emma wondered whether the same suspicion of what might be expected from their knowing each other, which had taken strong possession of her mind, had ever crossed his; and whether his compliments were to be considered as marks of acquiescence, or proofs of defiance. She must see more of him to understand his ways; at present she only felt they were agreeable.
爱玛想知道他是否也曾对他们彼此认识后产生的同样的怀疑产生过怀疑，这种怀疑曾深深地占据了她的脑海。以及他的恭维是否被视为默许的标志，还是蔑视的证据。她必须更多地了解他才能了解他的行事方式。目前她只觉得他们很愉快。

She had no doubt of what Mr. Weston was often thinking about. His quick eye she detected again and again glancing towards them with a happy expression; and even, when he might have determined not to look, she was confident that he was often listening.
她毫不怀疑韦斯顿先生经常在想什么。她发现他的目光敏锐，一次又一次地用幸福的表情看着他们。甚至，当他决定不看时，她相信他经常在听。

Her own father’s perfect exemption from any thought of the kind, the entire deficiency in him of all such sort of penetration or suspicion, was a most comfortable circumstance. Happily he was not farther from approving matrimony than from foreseeing it.— Though always objecting to every marriage that was arranged, he never suffered beforehand from the apprehension of any; it seemed as if he could not think so ill of any two persons’ understanding as to suppose they meant to marry till it were proved against them. She blessed the favouring blindness. He could now, without the drawback of a single unpleasant surmise, without a glance forward at any possible treachery in his guest, give way to all his natural kind-hearted civility in solicitous inquiries after Mr. Frank Churchill’s accommodation on his journey, through the sad evils of sleeping two nights on the road, and express very genuine unmixed anxiety to know that he had certainly escaped catching cold—which, however, he could not allow him to feel quite assured of himself till after another night.
她自己的父亲完全没有这种想法，他身上完全缺乏这种洞察力或怀疑，这是一种最舒服的情况。幸运的是，他距离批准婚姻并不比预见婚姻更远。——尽管他总是反对每一次安排的婚姻，但他事先从未因任何人的担心而受苦；似乎他不会对任何两个人的理解抱有如此的误解，认为他们打算结婚，直到事实证明对他们不利为止。她祝福偏爱的盲目。现在，他可以在没有任何令人不快的猜测的情况下，不用向前看他的客人有任何可能的背叛，而是让位给他所有自然善良的礼貌，在弗兰克·丘吉尔先生旅途中的住宿之后，通过他对在路上睡了两个晚上的悲惨不幸表示了非常真实的、纯粹的焦虑，因为他知道自己确实没有感冒——然而，这不能让他对自己感到非常有信心，直到又一个晚上。

A reasonable visit paid, Mr. Weston began to move.—‘He must be going. He had business at the Crown about his hay, and a great many errands for Mrs. Weston at Ford’s, but he need not hurry any body else.’ His son, too well bred to hear the hint, rose immediately also, saying,
韦斯顿先生进行了一次合理的拜访，他开始行动。——“他一定要走了。”他在皇家有干草的事，还有福特家韦斯顿夫人的许多差事，但他不需要催促其他人。”他的儿子，太有教养，听不到暗示，也立即站起来，说：

‘As you are going farther on business, sir, I will take the opportunity of paying a visit, which must be paid some day or other, and therefore may as well be paid now. I have the honour of being acquainted with a neighbour of yours, (turning to Emma,) a lady residing in or near Highbury; a family of the name of Fairfax. I shall have no difficulty, I suppose, in finding the house; though Fairfax, I believe, is not the proper name—I should rather say Barnes, or Bates. Do you know any family of that name?’
“先生，由于您出差去了，我趁此机会拜访一下，总有一天要拜访的，所以最好现在就拜访。我很荣幸认识你的一位邻居（转向艾玛），她是一位住在海布里或附近的女士。费尔法克斯家族。我想，找到那所房子不会有什么困难。尽管我认为费尔法克斯不是正确的名字——我宁愿说巴恩斯或贝茨。你认识叫这个名字的家庭吗？

‘To be sure we do,’ cried his father; ‘Mrs. Bates—we passed her house— I saw Miss Bates at the window. True, true, you are acquainted with Miss Fairfax; I remember you knew her at Weymouth, and a fine girl she is. Call upon her, by all means.’
“我们当然知道，”他的父亲喊道。 '太太。贝茨——我们经过她家——我看到贝茨小姐在窗边。确实，确实，你很熟悉费尔法克斯小姐。我记得你在韦茅斯认识她，她是一个很好的女孩。一定要打电话给她。”

‘There is no necessity for my calling this morning,’ said the young man; ‘another day would do as well; but there was that degree of acquaintance at Weymouth which—‘
“我今天早上没有必要打电话来，”年轻人说。 ‘改天也行；但在韦茅斯，我们之间的熟悉程度——”

‘Oh! go to-day, go to-day. Do not defer it. What is right to be done cannot be done too soon. And, besides, I must give you a hint, Frank; any want of attention to her here should be carefully avoided. You saw her with the Campbells, when she was the equal of every body she mixed with, but here she is with a poor old grandmother, who has barely enough to live on. If you do not call early it will be a slight.’
'哦！今天去，今天去。不要推迟它。正确的事情不能做得太快。而且，此外，我必须给你一个提示，弗兰克；任何对她的关注都应该小心避免。你看到她和坎贝尔一家在一起，那时她和她混在一起的每个人都是平等的，但现在她和一位可怜的老祖母在一起，她的生活勉强够用。如果你不早点打电话，那就会受到轻微的影响。”

The son looked convinced.
儿子看上去深信不疑。

‘I have heard her speak of the acquaintance,’ said Emma; ‘she is a very elegant young woman.’
“我听她说起我的熟人，”艾玛说。 “她是一位非常优雅的年轻女性。”

He agreed to it, but with so quiet a ‘Yes,’ as inclined her almost to doubt his real concurrence; and yet there must be a very distinct sort of elegance for the fashionable world, if Jane Fairfax could be thought only ordinarily gifted with it.
他同意了，但“是”的语气如此平静，以至于她几乎怀疑他是否真的同意了。然而，时尚界一定有一种非常独特的优雅，如果简·费尔法克斯只能被认为具有普通的天赋的话。

‘If you were never particularly struck by her manners before,’ said she, ‘I think you will to-day. You will see her to advantage; see her and hear her—no, I am afraid you will not hear her at all, for she has an aunt who never holds her tongue.’
“如果你以前从未对她的举止感到特别震惊，”她说，“我想你今天会的。”你会看到她的优势；看到她，听到她的声音——不，恐怕你根本听不到她的声音，因为她有一个从不闭嘴的姨妈。

‘You are acquainted with Miss Jane Fairfax, sir, are you?’ said Mr. Woodhouse, always the last to make his way in conversation; ‘then give me leave to assure you that you will find her a very agreeable young lady. She is staying here on a visit to her grandmama and aunt, very worthy people; I have known them all my life. They will be extremely glad to see you, I am sure; and one of my servants shall go with you to shew you the way.’
“先生，您认识简·费尔法克斯小姐，是吗？”伍德豪斯先生总是最后一个介入谈话。 “那么请允许我向你保证，你会发现她是一位非常令人愉快的年轻女士。她住在这里是为了拜访她的奶奶和姑妈，她们都是非常值得尊敬的人。我一生都认识他们。我相信他们会非常高兴见到你；我的一名仆人将与你同行，为你带路。

‘My dear sir, upon no account in the world; my father can direct me.’
“我亲爱的先生，无论如何，世界上没有任何事情；我父亲可以指导我。

‘But your father is not going so far; he is only going to the Crown, quite on the other side of the street, and there are a great many houses; you might be very much at a loss, and it is a very dirty walk, unless you keep on the footpath; but my coachman can tell you where you had best cross the street.’
“但是你父亲不会走那么远；他只是去王宫，就在街的另一边，那里有很多房子。你可能会非常不知所措，除非你继续沿着人行道走，否则这是一条非常肮脏的路。但我的车夫可以告诉你最好在哪里过马路。”

Mr. Frank Churchill still declined it, looking as serious as he could, and his father gave his hearty support by calling out, ‘My good friend, this is quite unnecessary; Frank knows a puddle of water when he sees it, and as to Mrs. Bates’s, he may get there from the Crown in a hop, step, and jump.’
弗兰克·丘吉尔先生仍然拒绝了，一脸严肃，而他的父亲则表示衷心支持，大声喊道：“我的好朋友，这是完全没有必要的；你可以这样做。”弗兰克一看到水坑就知道它是什么，至于贝茨夫人的水坑，他可能会从王室一跳一跳地到达那里。

They were permitted to go alone; and with a cordial nod from one, and a graceful bow from the other, the two gentlemen took leave. Emma remained very well pleased with this beginning of the acquaintance, and could now engage to think of them all at Randalls any hour of the day, with full confidence in their comfort.
他们被允许单独前往；一位亲切地点头，另一位优雅鞠躬后，两位绅士就告辞了。艾玛对这次相识的开始感到非常高兴，现在她可以在一天中的任何时候想起他们在兰德尔斯的一切，对他们的舒适充满信心。

Chapter VI
第六章

The next morning brought Mr. Frank Churchill again. He came with Mrs. Weston, to whom and to Highbury he seemed to take very cordially. He had been sitting with her, it appeared, most companionably at home, till her usual hour of exercise; and on being desired to chuse their walk, immediately fixed on Highbury.—‘He did not doubt there being very pleasant walks in every direction, but if left to him, he should always chuse the same. Highbury, that airy, cheerful, happy-looking Highbury, would be his constant attraction.’— Highbury, with Mrs. Weston, stood for Hartfield; and she trusted to its bearing the same construction with him. They walked thither directly.
第二天早上，弗兰克·丘吉尔先生又来了。他和韦斯顿夫人一起来了，他似乎对韦斯顿夫人和海布里很友善。看起来，他一直和她坐在一起，就像在家里一样，直到她平常的锻炼时间为止。当有人想要选择他们的散步时，他立即锁定了海布里。——“他毫不怀疑各个方向都有非常愉快的散步，但如果留给他的话，他应该总是选择同一个方向。”海布里，那个活泼、开朗、看上去幸福的海布里，将永远吸引着他。”——海布里和韦斯顿夫人代表哈特菲尔德；她相信它与他有着同样的结构。他们直接朝那里走去。

Emma had hardly expected them: for Mr. Weston, who had called in for half a minute, in order to hear that his son was very handsome, knew nothing of their plans; and it was an agreeable surprize to her, therefore, to perceive them walking up to the house together, arm in arm. She was wanting to see him again, and especially to see him in company with Mrs. Weston, upon his behaviour to whom her opinion of him was to depend. If he were deficient there, nothing should make amends for it. But on seeing them together, she became perfectly satisfied. It was not merely in fine words or hyperbolical compliment that he paid his duty; nothing could be more proper or pleasing than his whole manner to her—nothing could more agreeably denote his wish of considering her as a friend and securing her affection. And there was time enough for Emma to form a reasonable judgment, as their visit included all the rest of the morning. They were all three walking about together for an hour or two— first round the shrubberies of Hartfield, and afterwards in Highbury. He was delighted with every thing; admired Hartfield sufficiently for Mr. Woodhouse’s ear; and when their going farther was resolved on, confessed his wish to be made acquainted with the whole village, and found matter of commendation and interest much oftener than Emma could have supposed.
艾玛几乎没有料到他们会这样：因为韦斯顿先生打电话来了半分钟，是为了听说他的儿子非常英俊，但他对他们的计划一无所知；因此，当她看到他们手挽手一起朝房子走去时，她感到很惊讶。她想再次见到他，尤其是看到他和韦斯顿夫人在一起，因为她对他的看法取决于他的行为。如果他在这方面有缺陷，那就没有什么可以弥补的了。但看到他们在一起，她就很满足了。他不仅用漂亮的言辞或夸张的赞美来履行自己的职责；没有什么比他对她的整个态度更恰当、更令人愉快的了——没有什么比这更能表明他希望将她视为朋友并确保她的感情了。艾玛有足够的时间做出合理的判断，因为他们的拜访涵盖了整个上午的时间。他们三人一起散步了一两个小时——先是绕过哈特菲尔德的灌木丛，然后又到了海布里。他对一切都感到高兴；伍德豪斯先生对哈特菲尔德非常钦佩。当他们决定要走得更远时，他承认自己希望结识整个村庄，并发现比艾玛想象的更多的赞扬和兴趣。

Some of the objects of his curiosity spoke very amiable feelings. He begged to be shewn the house which his father had lived in so long, and which had been the home of his father’s father; and on recollecting that an old woman who had nursed him was still living, walked in quest of her cottage from one end of the street to the other; and though in some points of pursuit or observation there was no positive merit, they shewed, altogether, a good-will towards Highbury in general, which must be very like a merit to those he was with.
他好奇的一些物品流露出非常亲切的感情。他请求带他去看他父亲住了这么久的房子，那也是他父亲的父亲的家。当他想起一位照顾他的老妇人还活着时，她从街道的一端走到另一端，寻找她的小屋。虽然在某些追寻或观察的点上并没有什么积极的优点，但总的来说，他们对海布里表现出了善意，这对他身边的人来说肯定是一种优点。

Emma watched and decided, that with such feelings as were now shewn, it could not be fairly supposed that he had been ever voluntarily absenting himself; that he had not been acting a part, or making a parade of insincere professions; and that Mr. Knightley certainly had not done him justice.
艾玛看着并决定，以现在所表现出的这种感觉，不能合理地认为他曾经自愿缺席过。他并没有参与其中，也没有做出不真诚的表白；奈特利先生当然没有公正地对待他。

Their first pause was at the Crown Inn, an inconsiderable house, though the principal one of the sort, where a couple of pair of post-horses were kept, more for the convenience of the neighbourhood than from any run on the road; and his companions had not expected to be detained by any interest excited there; but in passing it they gave the history of the large room visibly added; it had been built many years ago for a ball-room, and while the neighbourhood had been in a particularly populous, dancing state, had been occasionally used as such;—but such brilliant days had long passed away, and now the highest purpose for which it was ever wanted was to accommodate a whist club established among the gentlemen and half-gentlemen of the place. He was immediately interested. Its character as a ball-room caught him; and instead of passing on, he stopt for several minutes at the two superior sashed windows which were open, to look in and contemplate its capabilities, and lament that its original purpose should have ceased. He saw no fault in the room, he would acknowledge none which they suggested. No, it was long enough, broad enough, handsome enough. It would hold the very number for comfort. They ought to have balls there at least every fortnight through the winter. Why had not Miss Woodhouse revived the former good old days of the room?—She who could do any thing in Highbury! The want of proper families in the place, and the conviction that none beyond the place and its immediate environs could be tempted to attend, were mentioned; but he was not satisfied. He could not be persuaded that so many good-looking houses as he saw around him, could not furnish numbers enough for such a meeting; and even when particulars were given and families described, he was still unwilling to admit that the inconvenience of such a mixture would be any thing, or that there would be the smallest difficulty in every body’s returning into their proper place the next morning. He argued like a young man very much bent on dancing; and Emma was rather surprized to see the constitution of the Weston prevail so decidedly against the habits of the Churchills. He seemed to have all the life and spirit, cheerful feelings, and social inclinations of his father, and nothing of the pride or reserve of Enscombe. Of pride, indeed, there was, perhaps, scarcely enough; his indifference to a confusion of rank, bordered too much on inelegance of mind. He could be no judge, however, of the evil he was holding cheap. It was but an effusion of lively spirits.
他们的第一个停留是在皇冠旅馆，这是一栋不起眼的房子，尽管是这类房子中最重要的一栋，里面养着几匹驿马，更多的是为了方便邻居，而不是为了在路上奔跑。他的同伴们没想到会因为那里激发的任何兴趣而被拘留。但在传递的过程中，他们明显地增加了这个大房间的历史。它是许多年前为舞厅建造的，虽然附近人口特别多，跳舞的状态，偶尔也被用作舞厅；但这样辉煌的日子早已过去，现在的最高目的是它曾经想要的是在这个地方的绅士和半绅士中建立一个惠斯特俱乐部。他立刻就感兴趣了。它的舞厅性质吸引了他；他没有继续前行，而是在两扇开着的上层推拉窗前停了几分钟，向内看去，思考它的功能，并感叹它原来的用途应该已经结束了。他认为房间里没有任何问题，他不会承认他们提出的任何问题。不，它足够长，足够宽，足够漂亮。为了舒适起见，它会保留这个数字。整个冬天他们至少应该每两周在那里举行一次舞会。为什么伍德豪斯小姐没有恢复房间里以前的美好时光呢？——她在海布里可以做任何事！他们提到了这个地方缺乏合适的家庭，并且坚信除了这个地方及其周围的环境之外，没有人会被诱惑去参加。但他并不满足。 他无法相信他周围看到的这么多漂亮的房子都不足以提供足够的人数来举办这样的会议；即使提供了详细信息和描述了家庭，他仍然不愿意承认这种混合会带来任何不便，或者第二天早上每个人返回适当的位置都会有最小的困难。他像一个热衷于跳舞的年轻人一样争论。爱玛很惊讶地看到韦斯顿的宪法如此明显地反对丘吉尔家族的习惯。他似乎拥有他父亲所有的活力和精神、愉快的感情和社交倾向，却没有恩斯库姆那样的骄傲或矜持。确实，自豪感也许还不够。他对等级混乱的漠视，近乎于思想的不优雅。然而，他无法判断自己所轻视的邪恶。那只是一种活泼的精神的流露。

At last he was persuaded to move on from the front of the Crown; and being now almost facing the house where the Bateses lodged, Emma recollected his intended visit the day before, and asked him if he had paid it.
最后，他被说服离开王室前线。现在几乎正对着贝茨夫妇住的房子，艾玛想起他前一天打算来拜访，并问他是否付了钱。

‘Yes, oh! yes’—he replied; ‘I was just going to mention it. A very successful visit:—I saw all the three ladies; and felt very much obliged to you for your preparatory hint. If the talking aunt had taken me quite by surprize, it must have been the death of me. As it was, I was only betrayed into paying a most unreasonable visit. Ten minutes would have been all that was necessary, perhaps all that was proper; and I had told my father I should certainly be at home before him—but there was no getting away, no pause; and, to my utter astonishment, I found, when he (finding me nowhere else) joined me there at last, that I had been actually sitting with them very nearly three-quarters of an hour. The good lady had not given me the possibility of escape before.’
‘是啊，哦！是的”——他回答道； ‘我只是想提一下。一次非常成功的访问：——我看到了三位女士；非常感谢你的准备提示。如果说说话的阿姨让我大吃一惊的话，那一定是我死了。事实上，我只是被背叛了，进行了一次最无理的拜访。十分钟就足够了，也许也是适当的；我已经告诉父亲我一定会比他先到家——但我无法离开，也无法停顿；令我大吃一惊的是，当他（在别处找不到我）最终和我一起到那里时，我发现我实际上已经和他们坐在一起了将近四分之三小时。这位善良的女士之前并没有给过我逃跑的机会。

‘And how did you think Miss Fairfax looking?’
“你觉得费尔法克斯小姐看起来怎么样？”

‘Ill, very ill—that is, if a young lady can ever be allowed to look ill. But the expression is hardly admissible, Mrs. Weston, is it? Ladies can never look ill. And, seriously, Miss Fairfax is naturally so pale, as almost always to give the appearance of ill health.— A most deplorable want of complexion.’
“病了，病得很重——也就是说，如果一个年轻女士可以被允许看起来病了的话。但这种说法很难让人接受，韦斯顿夫人，是吗？女士们永远不会看起来有病。而且，说真的，费尔法克斯小姐天生如此苍白，几乎总是给人一种健康状况不佳的印象。——一种最可悲的肤色缺失。

Emma would not agree to this, and began a warm defence of Miss Fairfax’s complexion. ‘It was certainly never brilliant, but she would not allow it to have a sickly hue in general; and there was a softness and delicacy in her skin which gave peculiar elegance to the character of her face.’ He listened with all due deference; acknowledged that he had heard many people say the same—but yet he must confess, that to him nothing could make amends for the want of the fine glow of health. Where features were indifferent, a fine complexion gave beauty to them all; and where they were good, the effect was—fortunately he need not attempt to describe what the effect was.
艾玛不同意，并开始为费尔法克斯小姐的肤色辩护。 “它当然从来都不是辉煌的，但她不允许它有一种病态的色调；她的皮肤柔软细腻，使她的脸庞显得格外优雅。他承认他听过很多人都说过同样的话——但他必须承认，对他来说，没有什么可以弥补健康的光彩不足。相貌平淡的地方，精致的肤色却给他们增添了美丽；凡是好的地方，就会产生效果——幸运的是，他不需要试图描述效果是什么。

‘Well,’ said Emma, ‘there is no disputing about taste.—At least you admire her except her complexion.’
“好吧，”艾玛说，“品味是没有争议的。至少你欣赏她，除了她的肤色。”

He shook his head and laughed.—‘I cannot separate Miss Fairfax and her complexion.’
他摇摇头笑道：“我无法将费尔法克斯小姐和她的肤色分开。”

‘Did you see her often at Weymouth? Were you often in the same society?’
“你在韦茅斯经常见到她吗？你们经常在同一个社会吗？

At this moment they were approaching Ford’s, and he hastily exclaimed, ‘Ha! this must be the very shop that every body attends every day of their lives, as my father informs me. He comes to Highbury himself, he says, six days out of the seven, and has always business at Ford’s. If it be not inconvenient to you, pray let us go in, that I may prove myself to belong to the place, to be a true citizen of Highbury. I must buy something at Ford’s. It will be taking out my freedom.— I dare say they sell gloves.’
这时，他们已经快到福特家了，福特急忙喊道：“哈！”正如我父亲告诉我的那样，这一定是每个人每天都会光顾的商店。他说，他自己来海布里，七天中有六天，而且总是在福特有生意。如果您不方便的话，请让我们进去吧，这样我就可以证明自己属于这个地方，是一个真正的海布里公民。我必须在福特买点东西。这将剥夺我的自由。——我敢说他们卖手套。

‘Oh! yes, gloves and every thing. I do admire your patriotism. You will be adored in Highbury. You were very popular before you came, because you were Mr. Weston’s son—but lay out half a guinea at Ford’s, and your popularity will stand upon your own virtues.’
'哦！是的，手套和所有东西。我很钦佩你的爱国精神。您将在海布里受到崇拜。你来之前很受欢迎，因为你是韦斯顿先生的儿子——但在福特店里花上半个几尼，你的受欢迎程度将取决于你自己的美德。

They went in; and while the sleek, well-tied parcels of ‘Men’s Beavers’ and ‘York Tan’ were bringing down and displaying on the counter, he said—‘But I beg your pardon, Miss Woodhouse, you were speaking to me, you were saying something at the very moment of this burst of my amor patriae. Do not let me lose it. I assure you the utmost stretch of public fame would not make me amends for the loss of any happiness in private life.’
他们进去了；当“男士海狸”和“约克谭”的光滑、系紧的包裹被拿下来并展示在柜台上时，他说——“但是请原谅，伍德豪斯小姐，你在对我说话，你在说就在我的祖国之爱爆发的那一刻。不要让我失去它。我向你保证，即使我获得最大的公众声誉，也无法弥补我在私人生活中失去的任何幸福。”

‘I merely asked, whether you had known much of Miss Fairfax and her party at Weymouth.’
“我只是问，你对费尔法克斯小姐和她在韦茅斯的聚会是否了解很多。”

‘And now that I understand your question, I must pronounce it to be a very unfair one. It is always the lady’s right to decide on the degree of acquaintance. Miss Fairfax must already have given her account.— I shall not commit myself by claiming more than she may chuse to allow.’
“现在我明白了你的问题，我必须说这是一个非常不公平的问题。熟识程度始终是女士的决定权。费尔法克斯小姐肯定已经交待了。——我不会承诺要求超出她允许的范围。

‘Upon my word! you answer as discreetly as she could do herself. But her account of every thing leaves so much to be guessed, she is so very reserved, so very unwilling to give the least information about any body, that I really think you may say what you like of your acquaintance with her.’
‘我保证！你尽可能谨慎地回答。但她对每件事的描述都让人猜测，她非常保守，非常不愿意透露任何关于任何人的信息，我真的认为你可以说你喜欢与她相识。

‘May I, indeed?—Then I will speak the truth, and nothing suits me so well. I met her frequently at Weymouth. I had known the Campbells a little in town; and at Weymouth we were very much in the same set. Colonel Campbell is a very agreeable man, and Mrs. Campbell a friendly, warm-hearted woman. I like them all.’
“我真的可以吗？——那么我就说实话，没有什么比这更适合我的了。”我在韦茅斯经常见到她。我在城里对坎贝尔一家有一点了解。在韦茅斯，我们的情况非常相似。坎贝尔上校是一个非常和蔼可亲的男人，坎贝尔夫人是一个友好、热心的女人。我喜欢他们全部。'

‘You know Miss Fairfax’s situation in life, I conclude; what she is destined to be?’
“我的结论是，你知道费尔法克斯小姐的生活状况；她注定会成为什么样的人？

‘Yes—(rather hesitatingly)—I believe I do.’
“是的——（相当犹豫地）——我相信我愿意。”

‘You get upon delicate subjects, Emma,’ said Mrs. Weston smiling; ‘remember that I am here.—Mr. Frank Churchill hardly knows what to say when you speak of Miss Fairfax’s situation in life. I will move a little farther off.’
“艾玛，你的话题很微妙，”韦斯顿夫人微笑着说道。 ‘记住我在这里。——先生。当你谈到费尔法克斯小姐的生活处境时，弗兰克·丘吉尔几乎不知道该说什么。我会搬远一点。

‘I certainly do forget to think of her,’ said Emma, ‘as having ever been any thing but my friend and my dearest friend.’
“我确实忘记了，”艾玛说，“她从来都不是我的朋友和我最亲爱的朋友。”

He looked as if he fully understood and honoured such a sentiment.
他看起来似乎完全理解并尊重这样的感情。

When the gloves were bought, and they had quitted the shop again, ‘Did you ever hear the young lady we were speaking of, play?’ said Frank Churchill.
当手套买完后，他们又离开了商店，“你有没有听到我们所说的那位年轻女士在玩耍？”弗兰克·丘吉尔说。

‘Ever hear her!’ repeated Emma. ‘You forget how much she belongs to Highbury. I have heard her every year of our lives since we both began. She plays charmingly.’
“永远听她说！”艾玛重复道。 “你忘记了她是多么属于海布里。自从我们俩开始以来，我每年都会听到她的声音。她演奏得很迷人。

‘You think so, do you?—I wanted the opinion of some one who could really judge. She appeared to me to play well, that is, with considerable taste, but I know nothing of the matter myself.— I am excessively fond of music, but without the smallest skill or right of judging of any body’s performance.—I have been used to hear her’s admired; and I remember one proof of her being thought to play well:—a man, a very musical man, and in love with another woman—engaged to her—on the point of marriage— would yet never ask that other woman to sit down to the instrument, if the lady in question could sit down instead—never seemed to like to hear one if he could hear the other. That, I thought, in a man of known musical talent, was some proof.’
“你是这么认为的，是吗？——我想听听真正能做出判断的人的意见。在我看来，她演奏得很好，也就是说，很有品味，但我自己对这件事一无所知。——我非常喜欢音乐，但没有一点技能或权利来评判任何人的演奏。——我一直曾经听过她的仰慕；我记得她被认为演奏得很好的一个证据：——一个男人，一个非常有音乐天赋的男人，爱上了另一个女人——与她订婚了——即将结婚——却永远不会要求另一个女人坐下来乐器，如果这位女士可以坐下来的话——如果他能听到另一个，他似乎从来不喜欢听一个。我认为，对于一个以音乐才华闻名的人来说，这就是一些证据。

‘Proof indeed!’ said Emma, highly amused.—‘Mr. Dixon is very musical, is he? We shall know more about them all, in half an hour, from you, than Miss Fairfax would have vouchsafed in half a year.’
“确实有证据！”艾玛非常高兴地说。迪克森很有音乐天赋，是吗？半小时内，我们将从你那里了解更多有关他们的信息，比费尔法克斯小姐半年了解的还要多。

‘Yes, Mr. Dixon and Miss Campbell were the persons; and I thought it a very strong proof.’
“是的，迪克森先生和坎贝尔小姐就是这样的人；我认为这是一个非常有力的证据。

‘Certainly—very strong it was; to own the truth, a great deal stronger than, if I had been Miss Campbell, would have been at all agreeable to me. I could not excuse a man’s having more music than love—more ear than eye—a more acute sensibility to fine sounds than to my feelings. How did Miss Campbell appear to like it?’
“当然——非常强烈；承认事实比我是坎贝尔小姐强得多，这对我来说是完全令人愉快的。我无法原谅一个人的音乐多于爱情，耳朵多于眼睛，对美妙声音的敏感度比对自己感情的敏感度更敏锐。坎贝尔小姐怎么看起来很喜欢它？

‘It was her very particular friend, you know.’
“你知道，这是她非常特别的朋友。”

‘Poor comfort!’ said Emma, laughing. ‘One would rather have a stranger preferred than one’s very particular friend—with a stranger it might not recur again—but the misery of having a very particular friend always at hand, to do every thing better than one does oneself!— Poor Mrs. Dixon! Well, I am glad she is gone to settle in Ireland.’
“太不舒服了！”艾玛笑着说。 “一个人宁愿选择一个陌生人，也不愿选择一个非常特别的朋友——和一个陌生人在一起，这种情况可能不会再发生——但是有一个非常特别的朋友总是在身边，做每件事都比自己做得更好，这是一种痛苦！——可怜的夫人。迪克森！嗯，我很高兴她去爱尔兰定居。

‘You are right. It was not very flattering to Miss Campbell; but she really did not seem to feel it.’
'你是对的。这让坎贝尔小姐不太高兴。但她似乎真的没有感觉到。

‘So much the better—or so much the worse:—I do not know which. But be it sweetness or be it stupidity in her—quickness of friendship, or dulness of feeling—there was one person, I think, who must have felt it: Miss Fairfax herself. She must have felt the improper and dangerous distinction.’
“是好还是坏：我不知道是哪一个。但无论她是甜蜜还是愚蠢——友谊的快速，还是感情的迟钝——我想，一定有一个人感受到了这一点：费尔法克斯小姐本人。她一定感受到了这种不恰当且危险的区别。

‘As to that—I do not—‘
“至于那个——我不——”

‘Oh! do not imagine that I expect an account of Miss Fairfax’s sensations from you, or from any body else. They are known to no human being, I guess, but herself. But if she continued to play whenever she was asked by Mr. Dixon, one may guess what one chuses.’
'哦！不要以为我期望从你或任何其他人那里了解费尔法克斯小姐的感受。我想，除了她自己，没有人认识他们。但如果她每次被迪克森先生问到时都继续演奏，人们可能会猜到她会选择什么。

‘There appeared such a perfectly good understanding among them all—‘ he began rather quickly, but checking himself, added, ‘however, it is impossible for me to say on what terms they really were— how it might all be behind the scenes. I can only say that there was smoothness outwardly. But you, who have known Miss Fairfax from a child, must be a better judge of her character, and of how she is likely to conduct herself in critical situations, than I can be.’
“他们之间似乎有着非常好的默契——”他很快开始说，但又检查了一下自己，补充道，“然而，我不可能说出他们到底是什么意思——这一切可能是如何在幕后进行的。”我只能说表面上很顺利。但你从小就认识费尔法克斯小姐，一定比我更能判断她的性格，以及她在危急情况下的表现。”

‘I have known her from a child, undoubtedly; we have been children and women together; and it is natural to suppose that we should be intimate,—that we should have taken to each other whenever she visited her friends. But we never did. I hardly know how it has happened; a little, perhaps, from that wickedness on my side which was prone to take disgust towards a girl so idolized and so cried up as she always was, by her aunt and grandmother, and all their set. And then, her reserve—I never could attach myself to any one so completely reserved.’
“毫无疑问，我从小就认识她；我们一起做过孩子和女人；我们很自然地认为我们应该很亲密——每当她拜访她的朋友时我们都应该互相关心。但我们从来没有这样做过。我几乎不知道这是怎么发生的；也许有一点是因为我的邪恶，我很容易对一个像往常一样被她的姨妈和祖母以及他们所有的人崇拜和哭泣的女孩感到厌恶。然后，她的矜持——我永远无法依附于任何一个如此完全矜持的人。”

‘It is a most repulsive quality, indeed,’ said he. ‘Oftentimes very convenient, no doubt, but never pleasing. There is safety in reserve, but no attraction. One cannot love a reserved person.’
“这确实是一种最令人厌恶的品质，”他说。 “毫无疑问，通常很方便，但从来不令人愉快。有安全保障，但没有吸引力。一个人不可能爱一个保守的人。

‘Not till the reserve ceases towards oneself; and then the attraction may be the greater. But I must be more in want of a friend, or an agreeable companion, than I have yet been, to take the trouble of conquering any body’s reserve to procure one. Intimacy between Miss Fairfax and me is quite out of the question. I have no reason to think ill of her—not the least—except that such extreme and perpetual cautiousness of word and manner, such a dread of giving a distinct idea about any body, is apt to suggest suspicions of there being something to conceal.’
‘直到停止对自己的保留；然后吸引力可能会更大。但我一定比以前更需要一个朋友，或者一个令人愉快的伴侣，才会不辞辛劳地克服任何人的保留去获得一个。费尔法克斯小姐和我之间根本不可能有亲密关系。我没有理由对她产生不好的看法——至少是这样——除了她对言语和举止如此极端和永久的谨慎，如此害怕对任何人给出明确的想法，很容易让人怀疑有什么事情需要隐瞒。 '

He perfectly agreed with her: and after walking together so long, and thinking so much alike, Emma felt herself so well acquainted with him, that she could hardly believe it to be only their second meeting. He was not exactly what she had expected; less of the man of the world in some of his notions, less of the spoiled child of fortune, therefore better than she had expected. His ideas seemed more moderate— his feelings warmer. She was particularly struck by his manner of considering Mr. Elton’s house, which, as well as the church, he would go and look at, and would not join them in finding much fault with. No, he could not believe it a bad house; not such a house as a man was to be pitied for having. If it were to be shared with the woman he loved, he could not think any man to be pitied for having that house. There must be ample room in it for every real comfort. The man must be a blockhead who wanted more.
他完全同意她的观点：一起走了这么久，想法如此相似，艾玛觉得自己和他太熟悉了，她几乎不敢相信这只是他们的第二次见面。他并不完全是她所期待的那样。在某些观念上少了一些世俗的风度，少了一些被宠坏的财富之子，因此比她预想的要好。他的想法似乎更加温和——他的感情更加温暖。她对他看待埃尔顿先生的房子的态度特别印象深刻，他会去看埃尔顿先生的房子，还有教堂，而不会和他们一起挑剔。不，他无法相信这是一座糟糕的房子；对于一个人来说，拥有这样的房子是不值得怜悯的。如果要和他所爱的女人分享，他认为没有哪个男人会因为拥有那所房子而感到可怜。里面必须有足够的空间才能真正舒适。这个人一定是个想要更多的傻瓜。

Mrs. Weston laughed, and said he did not know what he was talking about. Used only to a large house himself, and without ever thinking how many advantages and accommodations were attached to its size, he could be no judge of the privations inevitably belonging to a small one. But Emma, in her own mind, determined that he did know what he was talking about, and that he shewed a very amiable inclination to settle early in life, and to marry, from worthy motives. He might not be aware of the inroads on domestic peace to be occasioned by no housekeeper’s room, or a bad butler’s pantry, but no doubt he did perfectly feel that Enscombe could not make him happy, and that whenever he were attached, he would willingly give up much of wealth to be allowed an early establishment.
韦斯顿夫人笑了，说他不知道自己在说什么。他自己只住过大房子，从来没有想过它的大小有多少好处和住宿条件，他无法判断小房子不可避免的贫困。但艾玛内心认为，他确实知道自己在说什么，而且他表现出一种非常和蔼可亲的倾向，出于有价值的动机，早年安定下来并结婚。他可能没有意识到没有管家的房间或糟糕的管家厨房会破坏家庭的和平，但毫无疑问，他确实完全感觉到恩斯库姆不能让他快乐，而且每当他有依恋时，他都会心甘情愿地感到幸福。放弃大量财富才能获得早期建立。

Chapter VII
第七章

Emma’s very good opinion of Frank Churchill was a little shaken the following day, by hearing that he was gone off to London, merely to have his hair cut. A sudden freak seemed to have seized him at breakfast, and he had sent for a chaise and set off, intending to return to dinner, but with no more important view that appeared than having his hair cut. There was certainly no harm in his travelling sixteen miles twice over on such an errand; but there was an air of foppery and nonsense in it which she could not approve. It did not accord with the rationality of plan, the moderation in expense, or even the unselfish warmth of heart, which she had believed herself to discern in him yesterday. Vanity, extravagance, love of change, restlessness of temper, which must be doing something, good or bad; heedlessness as to the pleasure of his father and Mrs. Weston, indifferent as to how his conduct might appear in general; he became liable to all these charges. His father only called him a coxcomb, and thought it a very good story; but that Mrs. Weston did not like it, was clear enough, by her passing it over as quickly as possible, and making no other comment than that ‘all young people would have their little whims.’
第二天，当艾玛听说弗兰克·丘吉尔去伦敦只是为了剪头发时，她对他的好感有点动摇了。早餐时，他似乎突然感到一种怪癖，于是他叫了一辆躺椅出发，打算回去吃晚饭，但没有看到比剪头发更重要的景色。为了这样的差事，他两次行驶十六英里当然没有什么坏处。但其中有一种她不喜欢的庸俗和胡言乱语的气氛。这不符合计划的合理性，开支的节制，甚至不符合昨天她相信自己在他身上看到的无私的热情。虚荣、奢侈、好动、好动的脾气，这些都一定是在做事，无论是好事还是坏事；不关心他父亲和韦斯顿夫人的喜悦，也不关心他的行为总体上会如何；他对所有这些指控负有责任。他的父亲只称他为花花公子，并认为这是一个很好的故事；但韦斯顿夫人不喜欢它，这一点已经很清楚了，她尽快把它转过去，除了“所有年轻人都会有他们的小突发奇想”之外没有发表任何其他评论。

With the exception of this little blot, Emma found that his visit hitherto had given her friend only good ideas of him. Mrs. Weston was very ready to say how attentive and pleasant a companion he made himself—how much she saw to like in his disposition altogether. He appeared to have a very open temper—certainly a very cheerful and lively one; she could observe nothing wrong in his notions, a great deal decidedly right; he spoke of his uncle with warm regard, was fond of talking of him—said he would be the best man in the world if he were left to himself; and though there was no being attached to the aunt, he acknowledged her kindness with gratitude, and seemed to mean always to speak of her with respect. This was all very promising; and, but for such an unfortunate fancy for having his hair cut, there was nothing to denote him unworthy of the distinguished honour which her imagination had given him; the honour, if not of being really in love with her, of being at least very near it, and saved only by her own indifference— (for still her resolution held of never marrying)—the honour, in short, of being marked out for her by all their joint acquaintance.
除了这个小污点之外，艾玛发现迄今为止他的来访只让她的朋友对他产生了好感。韦斯顿夫人很乐意说他是一个多么细心和令人愉快的伴侣——她非常喜欢他的性格。他的脾气看起来非常开放——当然是非常开朗、活泼的。她看不出他的想法有什么问题，而且有很多明显是正确的。他谈到他的叔叔时充满了热情，喜欢谈论他——说如果让他独自一人，他将是世界上最好的人；虽然他对姨妈没有任何感情，但他还是感激地承认了她的好意，而且似乎总是带着尊敬的态度谈论她。这一切都非常有希望。而且，如果没有如此不幸的剪头发的幻想，并没有什么表明他不值得她的想象力赋予他的崇高荣誉。即便不是真正爱上她，至少也是非常接近她的荣幸，而且只有她自己的冷漠才能拯救——（因为她仍然决心不结婚）——简而言之，被标记为荣幸他们所有共同认识的人都为她服务。

Mr. Weston, on his side, added a virtue to the account which must have some weight. He gave her to understand that Frank admired her extremely—thought her very beautiful and very charming; and with so much to be said for him altogether, she found she must not judge him harshly. As Mrs. Weston observed, ‘all young people would have their little whims.’
韦斯顿先生则在他的观点中添加了一种美德，这种美德必须具有一定的分量。他让她明白弗兰克非常钦佩她——认为她非常美丽、非常迷人；为他说了这么多，她发现她不能严厉地评判他。正如韦斯顿夫人所说，“所有年轻人都会有自己的小突发奇想。”

There was one person among his new acquaintance in Surry, not so leniently disposed. In general he was judged, throughout the parishes of Donwell and Highbury, with great candour; liberal allowances were made for the little excesses of such a handsome young man— one who smiled so often and bowed so well; but there was one spirit among them not to be softened, from its power of censure, by bows or smiles—Mr. Knightley. The circumstance was told him at Hartfield; for the moment, he was silent; but Emma heard him almost immediately afterwards say to himself, over a newspaper he held in his hand, ‘Hum! just the trifling, silly fellow I took him for.’ She had half a mind to resent; but an instant’s observation convinced her that it was really said only to relieve his own feelings, and not meant to provoke; and therefore she let it pass.
他在萨里新认识的人中有一个人的性格并不那么宽容。总的来说，唐威尔和海布里的教区对他的评价都是非常坦诚的。对于这样一位英俊的年轻人的小小过激行为，人们给予了慷慨的宽容——他经常微笑，鞠躬得那么好。但他们中间有一种精神，无论是鞠躬还是微笑，都不会因谴责的力量而软化——先生。奈特利。情况是在哈特菲尔德告诉他的。此刻，他沉默了。但艾玛几乎立刻就听到他手里拿着一张报纸自言自语道：“嗯！” “我把他当成了一个微不足道、愚蠢的家伙。”她有半点怨恨的心；但一瞬间的观察让她相信，这确实只是为了缓解自己的情绪，并不是为了挑衅。因此她就让它过去了。

Although in one instance the bearers of not good tidings, Mr. and Mrs. Weston’s visit this morning was in another respect particularly opportune. Something occurred while they were at Hartfield, to make Emma want their advice; and, which was still more lucky, she wanted exactly the advice they gave.
尽管韦斯顿先生和夫人今天早上的来访在一方面带来了不好的消息，但从另一个方面来说却特别合适。他们在哈特菲尔德的时候发生了一些事情，让艾玛征求了他们的建议。更幸运的是，她想要的正是他们给出的建议。

This was the occurrence:—The Coles had been settled some years in Highbury, and were very good sort of people—friendly, liberal, and unpretending; but, on the other hand, they were of low origin, in trade, and only moderately genteel. On their first coming into the country, they had lived in proportion to their income, quietly, keeping little company, and that little unexpensively; but the last year or two had brought them a considerable increase of means— the house in town had yielded greater profits, and fortune in general had smiled on them. With their wealth, their views increased; their want of a larger house, their inclination for more company. They added to their house, to their number of servants, to their expenses of every sort; and by this time were, in fortune and style of living, second only to the family at Hartfield. Their love of society, and their new dining-room, prepared every body for their keeping dinner-company; and a few parties, chiefly among the single men, had already taken place. The regular and best families Emma could hardly suppose they would presume to invite— neither Donwell, nor Hartfield, nor Randalls. Nothing should tempt her to go, if they did; and she regretted that her father’s known habits would be giving her refusal less meaning than she could wish. The Coles were very respectable in their way, but they ought to be taught that it was not for them to arrange the terms on which the superior families would visit them. This lesson, she very much feared, they would receive only from herself; she had little hope of Mr. Knightley, none of Mr. Weston.
事情是这样的：——科尔夫妇在海布里定居了一些年，他们都是很好的人——友好、开明、朴实无华。但另一方面，他们的出身低下，从事贸易活动，而且也只是中等程度的文雅。刚来这个国家时，他们过着与收入相称的生活，过着平静的生活，很少有同伴，而且也不贵。但最近一两年，他们的收入有了相当大的增长——城里的房子带来了更多的利润，财富总体上向他们微笑。随着财富的增加，他们的观点也随之增加；他们想要更大的房子，想要更多的陪伴。他们增加了房屋、仆人的数量以及各种开支。此时，他们的财富和生活方式仅次于哈特菲尔德家族。他们对社交的热爱，以及他们的新餐厅，让每个人都为他们的晚餐陪伴做好了准备。一些聚会，主要是单身男子的聚会，已经举行了。艾玛很难想象他们会邀请那些正规的、最好的家庭——无论是唐威尔、哈特菲尔德还是兰德尔斯。如果他们愿意的话，没有什么可以诱惑她去。她感到遗憾的是，她父亲众所周知的习惯会让她的拒绝变得不如她所希望的那么有意义。科尔夫妇在行事上非常受人尊敬，但他们应该被教导，他们不能安排上流家庭拜访他们的条件。她非常担心，他们只能从她自己那里得到这个教训。她对奈特利先生不抱什么希望，对韦斯顿先生也不抱希望。

But she had made up her mind how to meet this presumption so many weeks before it appeared, that when the insult came at last, it found her very differently affected. Donwell and Randalls had received their invitation, and none had come for her father and herself; and Mrs. Weston’s accounting for it with ‘I suppose they will not take the liberty with you; they know you do not dine out,’ was not quite sufficient. She felt that she should like to have had the power of refusal; and afterwards, as the idea of the party to be assembled there, consisting precisely of those whose society was dearest to her, occurred again and again, she did not know that she might not have been tempted to accept. Harriet was to be there in the evening, and the Bateses. They had been speaking of it as they walked about Highbury the day before, and Frank Churchill had most earnestly lamented her absence. Might not the evening end in a dance? had been a question of his. The bare possibility of it acted as a farther irritation on her spirits; and her being left in solitary grandeur, even supposing the omission to be intended as a compliment, was but poor comfort.
但在这个假设出现之前的好几个星期，她就已经决定如何满足这个假设，以至于当侮辱最终到来时，她发现自己受到了截然不同的影响。唐威尔和兰德尔斯已经收到了邀请，但没有人来找她父亲和她自己。韦斯顿夫人对此的解释是：“我想他们不会冒昧地对待你；”他们知道你不出去吃饭”还不够。她觉得自己应该有拒绝的权力；后来，当她一次又一次地想到要在那里聚会，而聚会的成员正是她最亲近的人时，她不知道自己是否会忍不住接受。哈丽特和贝茨夫妇晚上都会去那里。前一天，他们在海布里散步时一直在谈论这件事，弗兰克·丘吉尔对她的缺席表示最诚挚的哀悼。晚上难道不能以舞蹈结束吗？一直是他的问题。仅仅有这种可能性就进一步刺激了她的精神。她被留在孤独的宏伟中，即使假设这一遗漏是为了恭维，也只是可怜的安慰。

It was the arrival of this very invitation while the Westons were at Hartfield, which made their presence so acceptable; for though her first remark, on reading it, was that ‘of course it must be declined,’ she so very soon proceeded to ask them what they advised her to do, that their advice for her going was most prompt and successful.
正是在韦斯顿夫妇在哈特菲尔德的时候收到了这个邀请，才使得他们的出现变得如此容易被接受。因为尽管她读完后的第一句话是“当然必须拒绝”，但她很快就开始询问他们建议她做什么，他们对她去的建议是最迅速和成功的。

She owned that, considering every thing, she was not absolutely without inclination for the party. The Coles expressed themselves so properly—there was so much real attention in the manner of it— so much consideration for her father. ‘They would have solicited the honour earlier, but had been waiting the arrival of a folding-screen from London, which they hoped might keep Mr. Woodhouse from any draught of air, and therefore induce him the more readily to give them the honour of his company. ‘Upon the whole, she was very persuadable; and it being briefly settled among themselves how it might be done without neglecting his comfort—how certainly Mrs. Goddard, if not Mrs. Bates, might be depended on for bearing him company— Mr. Woodhouse was to be talked into an acquiescence of his daughter’s going out to dinner on a day now near at hand, and spending the whole evening away from him. As for his going, Emma did not wish him to think it possible, the hours would be too late, and the party too numerous. He was soon pretty well resigned.
她承认，从各方面考虑，她并非完全没有参加聚会的倾向。科尔夫妇表达得如此恰当——他们的表达方式如此真实——如此多地关心她的父亲。 “他们原本会更早地请求这项荣誉，但一直在等待来自伦敦的折叠屏风，他们希望这可以让伍德豪斯先生免受任何空气的影响，从而促使他更愿意给予他们这项荣誉。”他的公司。 “总的来说，她很容易被说服；他们之间简单地商定了如何在不忽视他的舒适的情况下完成这件事——戈达德夫人，如果不是贝茨夫人，肯定可以依赖他的陪伴——伍德豪斯先生将被说服默许他的女儿马上就要出去吃晚饭了，整个晚上都不在他身边。至于他去，艾玛不希望他认为这是可能的，时间太晚了，而且聚会的人太多了。他很快就辞职了。

‘I am not fond of dinner-visiting,’ said he—‘I never was. No more is Emma. Late hours do not agree with us. I am sorry Mr. and Mrs. Cole should have done it. I think it would be much better if they would come in one afternoon next summer, and take their tea with us—take us in their afternoon walk; which they might do, as our hours are so reasonable, and yet get home without being out in the damp of the evening. The dews of a summer evening are what I would not expose any body to. However, as they are so very desirous to have dear Emma dine with them, and as you will both be there, and Mr. Knightley too, to take care of her, I cannot wish to prevent it, provided the weather be what it ought, neither damp, nor cold, nor windy.’ Then turning to Mrs. Weston, with a look of gentle reproach—‘Ah! Miss Taylor, if you had not married, you would have staid at home with me.’
“我不喜欢上门吃饭，”他说——“从来不喜欢。”艾玛不再是了。迟到的时间不适合我们。我很抱歉科尔先生和科尔夫人应该这样做。我想，如果他们能在明年夏天的某个下午过来，和我们一起喝茶——带我们去下午散步，那就更好了；他们可能会这么做，因为我们的工作时间非常合理，而且在晚上潮湿的天气里也不用出去就回家了。我不会让任何人接触夏日傍晚的露水。然而，由于他们非常希望亲爱的艾玛和他们一起吃饭，而且你们俩都会在那里，奈特利先生也会照顾她，所以我不想阻止它，只要天气正常的话，既不潮湿，也不冷，也没有风。”然后转向韦斯顿夫人，脸上带着温和责备的表情——“啊！泰勒小姐，如果你没有结婚，你就会和我一起住在家里。

‘Well, sir,’ cried Mr. Weston, ‘as I took Miss Taylor away, it is incumbent on me to supply her place, if I can; and I will step to Mrs. Goddard in a moment, if you wish it.’
“好吧，先生，”韦斯顿先生喊道，“当我把泰勒小姐带走时，如果可以的话，我有责任替她提供位置；但是，如果可以的话，我有责任为她提供位置。”如果你愿意的话，我一会儿就去找戈达德夫人。”

But the idea of any thing to be done in a moment, was increasing, not lessening, Mr. Woodhouse’s agitation. The ladies knew better how to allay it. Mr. Weston must be quiet, and every thing deliberately arranged.
但是，一想到要立即完成任何事情，伍德豪斯先生的焦躁情绪不但没有减弱，反而增加了。女士们更知道如何缓解这种情况。韦斯顿先生一定很安静，每件事都经过精心安排。

With this treatment, Mr. Woodhouse was soon composed enough for talking as usual. ‘He should be happy to see Mrs. Goddard. He had a great regard for Mrs. Goddard; and Emma should write a line, and invite her. James could take the note. But first of all, there must be an answer written to Mrs. Cole.’
经过这样的治疗，伍德豪斯先生很快就平静下来，可以像往常一样说话了。 “他应该很高兴见到戈达德夫人。他非常尊敬戈达德夫人。艾玛应该写一句话，并邀请她。詹姆斯可以记下来。但首先，必须有一个写给科尔夫人的答复。

‘You will make my excuses, my dear, as civilly as possible. You will say that I am quite an invalid, and go no where, and therefore must decline their obliging invitation; beginning with my compliments, of course. But you will do every thing right. I need not tell you what is to be done. We must remember to let James know that the carriage will be wanted on Tuesday. I shall have no fears for you with him. We have never been there above once since the new approach was made; but still I have no doubt that James will take you very safely. And when you get there, you must tell him at what time you would have him come for you again; and you had better name an early hour. You will not like staying late. You will get very tired when tea is over.’
“亲爱的，你会尽可能礼貌地为我找借口。你会说我是个十足的病人，哪里也去不了，因此必须拒绝他们的盛情邀请。当然，首先是我的赞美。但你会做对每件事。我不需要告诉你要做什么。我们必须记得让詹姆斯知道周二将需要这辆马车。和他在一起我就不会担心你了。自从采用新方法以来，我们从未去过上面的地方；但我仍然坚信詹姆斯会非常安全地带你去。当你到达那里时，你必须告诉他你想让他再次来找你的时间；你最好指定一个早的时间。你不会喜欢熬夜的。喝完茶你会很累的。”

‘But you would not wish me to come away before I am tired, papa?’
“但是你不希望我在累之前离开吗，爸爸？”

‘Oh! no, my love; but you will soon be tired. There will be a great many people talking at once. You will not like the noise.’
'哦！不，我的爱人；但你很快就会厌倦。将会有很多人同时交谈。你不会喜欢这种噪音的。

‘But, my dear sir,’ cried Mr. Weston, ‘if Emma comes away early, it will be breaking up the party.’
“但是，亲爱的先生，”韦斯顿先生喊道，“如果艾玛提前离开，聚会就会被打散。”

‘And no great harm if it does,’ said Mr. Woodhouse. ‘The sooner every party breaks up, the better.’
伍德豪斯先生说：“即使确实如此，也不会造成太大伤害。” “各方越早分手越好。”

‘But you do not consider how it may appear to the Coles. Emma’s going away directly after tea might be giving offence. They are good-natured people, and think little of their own claims; but still they must feel that any body’s hurrying away is no great compliment; and Miss Woodhouse’s doing it would be more thought of than any other person’s in the room. You would not wish to disappoint and mortify the Coles, I am sure, sir; friendly, good sort of people as ever lived, and who have been your neighbours these ten years.’
“但你没有考虑到 Coles 会怎么看。”艾玛喝完茶就走开可能会冒犯到她。他们是心地善良的人，很少考虑自己的主张；但他们仍然一定会觉得，任何人的匆匆离去并不是什么伟大的恭维；伍德豪斯小姐所做的事情会比房间里其他任何人都更受人关注。我确信，先生，您不会希望让科尔斯感到失望和羞辱。他们一如既往地友好、善良，十年来一直是你的邻居。”

‘No, upon no account in the world, Mr. Weston; I am much obliged to you for reminding me. I should be extremely sorry to be giving them any pain. I know what worthy people they are. Perry tells me that Mr. Cole never touches malt liquor. You would not think it to look at him, but he is bilious—Mr. Cole is very bilious. No, I would not be the means of giving them any pain. My dear Emma, we must consider this. I am sure, rather than run the risk of hurting Mr. and Mrs. Cole, you would stay a little longer than you might wish. You will not regard being tired. You will be perfectly safe, you know, among your friends.’
“不，无论如何，韦斯顿先生；我非常感谢你的提醒。我应该为给他们带来的痛苦感到非常抱歉。我知道他们是多么有价值的人。佩里告诉我，科尔先生从不碰麦芽酒。你看他的样子可能不会这么认为，但他脾气暴躁——先生。科尔非常暴躁。不，我不会成为给他们带来任何痛苦的手段。亲爱的艾玛，我们必须考虑这一点。我确信，与其冒着伤害科尔先生和科尔夫人的风险，您会比您希望的停留时间长一点。你不会认为累。你知道，在你的朋友中间，你会非常安全。”

‘Oh yes, papa. I have no fears at all for myself; and I should have no scruples of staying as late as Mrs. Weston, but on your account. I am only afraid of your sitting up for me. I am not afraid of your not being exceedingly comfortable with Mrs. Goddard. She loves piquet, you know; but when she is gone home, I am afraid you will be sitting up by yourself, instead of going to bed at your usual time—and the idea of that would entirely destroy my comfort. You must promise me not to sit up.’
‘哦，是的，爸爸。我对自己一点也不害怕；如果不是为了你，我应该毫无顾忌地像韦斯顿夫人一样呆到很晚。我只怕你替我坐起来。我并不担心你和戈达德夫人相处得不太自在。你知道，她喜欢生气。但当她回家后，我担心你会自己坐起来，而不是按照平常的时间去睡觉——而这个想法会完全破坏我的舒适感。你必须答应我不要坐起来。

He did, on the condition of some promises on her side: such as that, if she came home cold, she would be sure to warm herself thoroughly; if hungry, that she would take something to eat; that her own maid should sit up for her; and that Serle and the butler should see that every thing were safe in the house, as usual.
他答应了，但条件是她答应了一些：比如，如果她回家冷了，一定要让自己暖和起来；如果饿了，她会带点东西吃；她自己的女仆应该为她起立；塞尔和管家应该像往常一样确保房子里的一切都是安全的。

Chapter VIII
第八章

Frank Churchill came back again; and if he kept his father’s dinner waiting, it was not known at Hartfield; for Mrs. Weston was too anxious for his being a favourite with Mr. Woodhouse, to betray any imperfection which could be concealed.
弗兰克·丘吉尔又回来了；如果他让父亲的晚餐等着，哈特菲尔德也不知道。因为韦斯顿夫人太渴望他受到伍德豪斯先生的喜爱，不愿意暴露任何可以隐藏的缺陷。

He came back, had had his hair cut, and laughed at himself with a very good grace, but without seeming really at all ashamed of what he had done. He had no reason to wish his hair longer, to conceal any confusion of face; no reason to wish the money unspent, to improve his spirits. He was quite as undaunted and as lively as ever; and, after seeing him, Emma thus moralised to herself:—
他回来了，剪了头发，非常优雅地嘲笑自己，但似乎并没有真正为自己所做的事情感到羞耻。他没有理由希望自己的头发更长一些，以掩盖脸上的困惑；他没有理由希望自己的头发更长一些。没有理由希望钱花不完，以提高他的精神。他一如既往地无所畏惧、充满活力。看到他后，艾玛这样对自己说：

‘I do not know whether it ought to be so, but certainly silly things do cease to be silly if they are done by sensible people in an impudent way. Wickedness is always wickedness, but folly is not always folly.—It depends upon the character of those who handle it. Mr. Knightley, he is not a trifling, silly young man. If he were, he would have done this differently. He would either have gloried in the achievement, or been ashamed of it. There would have been either the ostentation of a coxcomb, or the evasions of a mind too weak to defend its own vanities.—No, I am perfectly sure that he is not trifling or silly.’
“我不知道是否应该如此，但如果愚蠢的事情是由明智的人以无礼的方式做的话，那么愚蠢的事情就不再愚蠢了。邪恶始终是邪恶，但愚蠢并不总是愚蠢。——这取决于处理此事的人的性格。奈特利先生，他不是一个微不足道、愚蠢的年轻人。如果他是的话，他会采取不同的做法。他要么会因这一成就而感到自豪，要么会为此感到羞耻。要么是花花公子的炫耀，要么是心灵太软弱而无法捍卫自己的虚荣心的逃避。——不，我完全确定他并不轻浮或愚蠢。

With Tuesday came the agreeable prospect of seeing him again, and for a longer time than hitherto; of judging of his general manners, and by inference, of the meaning of his manners towards herself; of guessing how soon it might be necessary for her to throw coldness into her air; and of fancying what the observations of all those might be, who were now seeing them together for the first time.
周二，我们又迎来了再次见到他的美好前景，而且见面的时间比以往更长。判断他的一般举止，并通过推断，判断他的举止对她自己的意义；猜测她需要多久才能让空气中充满寒冷；想象所有这些第一次看到他们在一起的人可能会看到什么。

She meant to be very happy, in spite of the scene being laid at Mr. Cole’s; and without being able to forget that among the failings of Mr. Elton, even in the days of his favour, none had disturbed her more than his propensity to dine with Mr. Cole.
尽管这场戏是在科尔先生家里进行的，但她还是想感到非常高兴。她不能忘记，在埃尔顿先生的缺点中，即使是在他受宠的日子里，最让她不安的莫过于他喜欢和科尔先生一起吃饭。

Her father’s comfort was amply secured, Mrs. Bates as well as Mrs. Goddard being able to come; and her last pleasing duty, before she left the house, was to pay her respects to them as they sat together after dinner; and while her father was fondly noticing the beauty of her dress, to make the two ladies all the amends in her power, by helping them to large slices of cake and full glasses of wine, for whatever unwilling self-denial his care of their constitution might have obliged them to practise during the meal.—She had provided a plentiful dinner for them; she wished she could know that they had been allowed to eat it.
她父亲的舒适得到了充分保证，贝茨夫人和戈达德夫人都能够来。离开家之前，她最后一项令人高兴的任务就是在晚饭后他们坐在一起时向他们致以敬意。当她的父亲深情地注意到她衣服的美丽时，他尽其所能地帮助两位女士，帮她们吃大块蛋糕，喝满杯酒，尽管不情愿地克己，但他对她们体质的照顾可能会迫使他们在吃饭的时候练习。——她为他们准备了丰盛的晚餐；她希望自己知道他们被允许吃它。

She followed another carriage to Mr. Cole’s door; and was pleased to see that it was Mr. Knightley’s; for Mr. Knightley keeping no horses, having little spare money and a great deal of health, activity, and independence, was too apt, in Emma’s opinion, to get about as he could, and not use his carriage so often as became the owner of Donwell Abbey. She had an opportunity now of speaking her approbation while warm from her heart, for he stopped to hand her out.
她跟着另一辆马车来到了科尔先生的门口。很高兴看到这是奈特利先生的。因为奈特利先生不养马，没有什么闲钱，但身体健康，活动能力强，独立性强，在艾玛看来，他很容易尽可能地四处走动，而不是像主人那样经常使用他的马车。唐威尔修道院。她现在有机会在心里温暖地说出她的赞许，因为他停下来把她送出去。

‘This is coming as you should do,’ said she; ‘like a gentleman.— I am quite glad to see you.’
“这是你应该做的，”她说。 “像个绅士一样——我很高兴见到你。”

He thanked her, observing, ‘How lucky that we should arrive at the same moment! for, if we had met first in the drawing-room, I doubt whether you would have discerned me to be more of a gentleman than usual.— You might not have distinguished how I came, by my look or manner.’
他向她表示感谢，说道：“我们能同时到达真是太幸运了！”因为，如果我们第一次在客厅见面，我怀疑你是否会认为我比平常更有绅士风度。——你可能无法通过我的外表或举止辨别出我是怎么来的。

‘Yes I should, I am sure I should. There is always a look of consciousness or bustle when people come in a way which they know to be beneath them. You think you carry it off very well, I dare say, but with you it is a sort of bravado, an air of affected unconcern; I always observe it whenever I meet you under those circumstances. Now you have nothing to try for. You are not afraid of being supposed ashamed. You are not striving to look taller than any body else. Now I shall really be very happy to walk into the same room with you.’
“是的，我应该，我确信我应该。当人们以一种他们知道低于自己的方式到来时，总是会表现出一种自觉或忙碌的表情。我敢说，你认为你做得很好，但对你来说，这是一种虚张声势，一种假装漠不关心的神态；每当我在那种情况下见到你时，我总是会观察到这一点。现在你没有什么可尝试的了。你不怕被认为是羞耻的。您并不是努力让自己看起来比其他任何人都高。现在我真的很高兴能和你走进同一个房间。

‘Nonsensical girl!’ was his reply, but not at all in anger.
“胡言乱语的女孩！”他回答道，但并没有生气。

Emma had as much reason to be satisfied with the rest of the party as with Mr. Knightley. She was received with a cordial respect which could not but please, and given all the consequence she could wish for. When the Westons arrived, the kindest looks of love, the strongest of admiration were for her, from both husband and wife; the son approached her with a cheerful eagerness which marked her as his peculiar object, and at dinner she found him seated by her—and, as she firmly believed, not without some dexterity on his side.
艾玛有充分的理由对聚会的其他人感到满意，就像对奈特利先生感到满意一样。她受到了诚挚的尊重，这令人不禁感到高兴，并给予了她所希望的一切结果。当韦斯顿夫妇到达时，丈夫和妻子都向她投来了最亲切的爱意和最强烈的钦佩之情。儿子带着一种愉快的热切接近她，这表明她是他的特殊对象，晚餐时，她发现他坐在她旁边——而且，正如她坚信的那样，他身边不乏一些灵巧的人。

The party was rather large, as it included one other family, a proper unobjectionable country family, whom the Coles had the advantage of naming among their acquaintance, and the male part of Mr. Cox’s family, the lawyer of Highbury. The less worthy females were to come in the evening, with Miss Bates, Miss Fairfax, and Miss Smith; but already, at dinner, they were too numerous for any subject of conversation to be general; and, while politics and Mr. Elton were talked over, Emma could fairly surrender all her attention to the pleasantness of her neighbour. The first remote sound to which she felt herself obliged to attend, was the name of Jane Fairfax. Mrs. Cole seemed to be relating something of her that was expected to be very interesting. She listened, and found it well worth listening to. That very dear part of Emma, her fancy, received an amusing supply. Mrs. Cole was telling that she had been calling on Miss Bates, and as soon as she entered the room had been struck by the sight of a pianoforte—a very elegant looking instrument—not a grand, but a large-sized square pianoforte; and the substance of the story, the end of all the dialogue which ensued of surprize, and inquiry, and congratulations on her side, and explanations on Miss Bates’s, was, that this pianoforte had arrived from Broadwood’s the day before, to the great astonishment of both aunt and niece—entirely unexpected; that at first, by Miss Bates’s account, Jane herself was quite at a loss, quite bewildered to think who could possibly have ordered it— but now, they were both perfectly satisfied that it could be from only one quarter;—of course it must be from Colonel Campbell.
聚会的人数相当多，因为其中包括另一个家庭，一个无可争议的正宗乡村家庭，科尔夫妇在他们的熟人中提到了这个家庭，还有考克斯先生家里的男性成员，海布里的律师。晚上，不太有价值的女性会来，包括贝茨小姐、费尔法克斯小姐和史密斯小姐。但到了晚餐时，人已经太多了，任何谈话话题都无法笼统。当人们谈论政治和埃尔顿先生时，艾玛完全可以把所有的注意力都集中在邻居的愉快上。她觉得自己必须注意的第一个遥远的声音是简·费尔法克斯的名字。科尔夫人似乎正在讲述一些她认为非常有趣的事情。她听了，觉得很值得一听。艾玛的那个非常可爱的部分，她的幻想，得到了有趣的供应。科尔夫人说她一直在拜访贝茨小姐，她一进屋就被一架钢琴——一种看起来非常优雅的乐器——所震撼，不是一架三角钢琴，而是一架大号的方形钢琴。故事的实质内容，以及随之而来的所有对话的结尾，以及贝茨小姐方面的惊讶、询问和祝贺，以及贝茨小姐的解释，是这架钢琴是前一天从布罗德伍德到达的，这让人们大吃一惊。姨妈和侄女的——完全出乎意料；起初，根据贝茨小姐的说法，简本人很茫然，很困惑，不知道是谁订购了它——但现在，他们都非常满意，这可能只是来自四分之一；——当然，它必须来自坎贝尔上校。

‘One can suppose nothing else,’ added Mrs. Cole, ‘and I was only surprized that there could ever have been a doubt. But Jane, it seems, had a letter from them very lately, and not a word was said about it. She knows their ways best; but I should not consider their silence as any reason for their not meaning to make the present. They might chuse to surprize her.’
“除此之外，别无他法，”科尔夫人补充道，“我只是惊讶于竟然会有这样的疑问。”但简似乎最近才收到他们的一封信，但对此只字未提。她最了解他们的行事方式；但我不应该将他们的沉默视为他们不打算出席的任何理由。他们可能会选择给她一个惊喜。

Mrs. Cole had many to agree with her; every body who spoke on the subject was equally convinced that it must come from Colonel Campbell, and equally rejoiced that such a present had been made; and there were enough ready to speak to allow Emma to think her own way, and still listen to Mrs. Cole.
科尔夫人的很多观点都同意她的观点。每个谈论这个话题的人都同样确信它一定来自坎贝尔上校，并且同样为收到这样一份礼物而感到高兴。有足够多的人准备好说话，让艾玛可以按照自己的方式思考，同时仍然听科尔夫人的话。

‘I declare, I do not know when I have heard any thing that has given me more satisfaction!—It always has quite hurt me that Jane Fairfax, who plays so delightfully, should not have an instrument. It seemed quite a shame, especially considering how many houses there are where fine instruments are absolutely thrown away. This is like giving ourselves a slap, to be sure! and it was but yesterday I was telling Mr. Cole, I really was ashamed to look at our new grand pianoforte in the drawing-room, while I do not know one note from another, and our little girls, who are but just beginning, perhaps may never make any thing of it; and there is poor Jane Fairfax, who is mistress of music, has not any thing of the nature of an instrument, not even the pitifullest old spinet in the world, to amuse herself with.—I was saying this to Mr. Cole but yesterday, and he quite agreed with me; only he is so particularly fond of music that he could not help indulging himself in the purchase, hoping that some of our good neighbours might be so obliging occasionally to put it to a better use than we can; and that really is the reason why the instrument was bought— or else I am sure we ought to be ashamed of it.—We are in great hopes that Miss Woodhouse may be prevailed with to try it this evening.’
“我声明，我不知道什么时候听到过任何能让我更满足的事情！——弹得如此愉快的简·费尔法克斯不应该拥有乐器，这总是让我很受伤。这似乎是一种耻辱，尤其是考虑到有多少房子里精美的乐器都被彻底扔掉了。当然，这就像给我们自己一巴掌！就在昨天，我告诉科尔先生，我真的很羞愧地看着客厅里我们的新三角钢琴，而我不知道一个音符和另一个音符，而我们的小女孩们，才刚刚开始，也许永远不会有任何成果；还有可怜的简·费尔法克斯，她是一位音乐女主人，没有任何乐器性质的东西，甚至连世界上最可怜的老斯皮纳琴也没有，可以用来自娱自乐。——我昨天对科尔先生说了这句话，他非常同意我的观点；只是他特别喜欢音乐，以至于忍不住沉迷于购买，希望我们的一些好邻居偶尔会比我们更好地利用它；这确实是购买该乐器的原因——否则我相信我们应该为此感到羞耻。——我们非常希望伍德豪斯小姐今晚能被说服去尝试一下。

Miss Woodhouse made the proper acquiescence; and finding that nothing more was to be entrapped from any communication of Mrs. Cole’s, turned to Frank Churchill.
伍德豪斯小姐默许了。发现科尔夫人的任何通讯都无法再被困住，于是转向弗兰克·丘吉尔。

‘Why do you smile?’ said she.
“你为什么笑？”她说。

‘Nay, why do you?’
“不，你为什么这么做？”

‘Me!—I suppose I smile for pleasure at Colonel Campbell’s being so rich and so liberal.—It is a handsome present.’
“我！——我想我对坎贝尔上校如此富有和如此慷慨感到高兴。——这是一份漂亮的礼物。”

‘Very.’
'非常。'

‘I rather wonder that it was never made before.’
“我很奇怪它以前从未被制造过。”

‘Perhaps Miss Fairfax has never been staying here so long before.’
“也许费尔法克斯小姐以前从未在这里待过这么长时间。”

‘Or that he did not give her the use of their own instrument— which must now be shut up in London, untouched by any body.’
“或者说他没有让她使用他们自己的工具——这些工具现在必须被关在伦敦，不让任何人碰触。”

‘That is a grand pianoforte, and he might think it too large for Mrs. Bates’s house.’
“那是一架三角钢琴，他可能认为对于贝茨夫人的房子来说太大了。”

‘You may say what you chuse—but your countenance testifies that your thoughts on this subject are very much like mine.’
“你可以说你想说什么——但你的表情证明你对这个问题的想法与我非常相似。”

‘I do not know. I rather believe you are giving me more credit for acuteness than I deserve. I smile because you smile, and shall probably suspect whatever I find you suspect; but at present I do not see what there is to question. If Colonel Campbell is not the person, who can be?’
'我不知道。我宁愿相信你对我的敏锐性的认可比我应得的更多。我微笑是因为你微笑，并且可能会怀疑我发现你怀疑的一切；但目前我看不出有什么可质疑的。如果坎贝尔上校不是这个人，那么谁可以呢？

‘What do you say to Mrs. Dixon?’
“你对迪克森夫人有什么话要说？”

‘Mrs. Dixon! very true indeed. I had not thought of Mrs. Dixon. She must know as well as her father, how acceptable an instrument would be; and perhaps the mode of it, the mystery, the surprize, is more like a young woman’s scheme than an elderly man’s. It is Mrs. Dixon, I dare say. I told you that your suspicions would guide mine.’
'太太。迪克森！确实非常真实。我没有想到迪克森夫人。她一定和她父亲一样知道，一件乐器是多么容易被接受；也许它的模式、神秘、惊喜更像是一个年轻女子的计划，而不是一个老人的计划。我敢说，这是迪克森夫人。我告诉过你，你的怀疑会指导我的怀疑。

‘If so, you must extend your suspicions and comprehend Mr. Dixon in them.’
“如果是这样，你必须扩大你的怀疑，并在其中理解迪克森先生。”

‘Mr. Dixon.—Very well. Yes, I immediately perceive that it must be the joint present of Mr. and Mrs. Dixon. We were speaking the other day, you know, of his being so warm an admirer of her performance.’
'先生。迪克森——很好。是的，我立即意识到这一定是迪克森先生和夫人的共同礼物。你知道，前几天我们谈到他对她的表演非常崇拜。

‘Yes, and what you told me on that head, confirmed an idea which I had entertained before.—I do not mean to reflect upon the good intentions of either Mr. Dixon or Miss Fairfax, but I cannot help suspecting either that, after making his proposals to her friend, he had the misfortune to fall in love with her, or that he became conscious of a little attachment on her side. One might guess twenty things without guessing exactly the right; but I am sure there must be a particular cause for her chusing to come to Highbury instead of going with the Campbells to Ireland. Here, she must be leading a life of privation and penance; there it would have been all enjoyment. As to the pretence of trying her native air, I look upon that as a mere excuse.—In the summer it might have passed; but what can any body’s native air do for them in the months of January, February, and March? Good fires and carriages would be much more to the purpose in most cases of delicate health, and I dare say in her’s. I do not require you to adopt all my suspicions, though you make so noble a profession of doing it, but I honestly tell you what they are.’
“是的，你在这个问题上告诉我的，证实了我以前所抱有的一个想法。——我无意反思迪克森先生或费尔法克斯小姐的良好意图，但我不禁怀疑这一点，之后在向她的朋友求婚时，他不幸爱上了她，或者说他意识到对她有一点依恋。一个人可能会猜出二十件事，但猜不出完全正确；但我确信她选择来海布里而不是随坎贝尔一家去爱尔兰一定有特殊的原因。在这里，她一定过着贫困和苦行的生活；在那里，一切都是享受。至于假装尝试一下她本土的空气，我认为这只是一个借口。——在夏天，这可能已经过去了；但在夏天，这可能已经过去了。但是在一月、二月和三月这几个月里，自然空气能为他们带来什么好处呢？在大多数身体虚弱的情况下，良好的生火和马车更能达到目的，我敢说对她来说也是如此。我并不要求你接受我所有的怀疑，尽管你以这样做为职业，但我诚实地告诉你它们是什么。

‘And, upon my word, they have an air of great probability. Mr. Dixon’s preference of her music to her friend’s, I can answer for being very decided.’
“而且，据我所知，他们看上去很有可能。”迪克森先生对她的音乐的偏好高于她朋友的，我可以说是非常坚定的。

‘And then, he saved her life. Did you ever hear of that?— A water party; and by some accident she was falling overboard. He caught her.’
‘然后，他救了她的命。你听说过吗？——水上派对；由于某种意外，她掉进了海里。他抓住了她。

‘He did. I was there—one of the party.’
’他做到了。我当时也在场——是聚会中的一员。

‘Were you really?—Well!—But you observed nothing of course, for it seems to be a new idea to you.—If I had been there, I think I should have made some discoveries.’
“你真的是这样吗？——好吧！——但是你当然什么也没观察到，因为这对你来说似乎是一个新想法。——如果我当时在场，我想我应该会有一些发现。”

‘I dare say you would; but I, simple I, saw nothing but the fact, that Miss Fairfax was nearly dashed from the vessel and that Mr. Dixon caught her.—It was the work of a moment. And though the consequent shock and alarm was very great and much more durable—indeed I believe it was half an hour before any of us were comfortable again— yet that was too general a sensation for any thing of peculiar anxiety to be observable. I do not mean to say, however, that you might not have made discoveries.’
“我敢说你会的；但我，单纯的我，只看到了这样一个事实：费尔法克斯小姐差点从船上摔下来，迪克森先生抓住了她。——这是一瞬间的事。尽管随之而来的震惊和警报非常强烈，而且更加持久——事实上，我相信我们中的任何一个人都过了半个小时才再次感到舒服——但这种感觉太普遍了，任何特殊的焦虑都无法观察到。然而，我并不是说你可能没有发现。

The conversation was here interrupted. They were called on to share in the awkwardness of a rather long interval between the courses, and obliged to be as formal and as orderly as the others; but when the table was again safely covered, when every corner dish was placed exactly right, and occupation and ease were generally restored, Emma said,
谈话说到这里就被打断了。他们被要求分担课程之间相当长的间隔的尴尬，并且必须像其他人一样正式和有序。但当桌子再次被安全地盖上，当每个角落的盘子都放置得完全正确时，工作和舒适度总体上恢复了，艾玛说，

‘The arrival of this pianoforte is decisive with me. I wanted to know a little more, and this tells me quite enough. Depend upon it, we shall soon hear that it is a present from Mr. and Mrs. Dixon.’
“这架钢琴的到来对我来说具有决定性意义。我想知道更多一点，这已经足够了。相信吧，我们很快就会听说这是迪克森先生和夫人的礼物。

‘And if the Dixons should absolutely deny all knowledge of it we must conclude it to come from the Campbells.’
“如果狄克逊夫妇绝对否认对此的所有了解，我们就必须断定它来自坎贝尔夫妇。”

‘No, I am sure it is not from the Campbells. Miss Fairfax knows it is not from the Campbells, or they would have been guessed at first. She would not have been puzzled, had she dared fix on them. I may not have convinced you perhaps, but I am perfectly convinced myself that Mr. Dixon is a principal in the business.’
“不，我确信这不是来自坎贝尔一家。”费尔法克斯小姐知道这不是坎贝尔夫妇寄来的，否则一开始就会被猜到。如果她敢于盯着它们，她就不会感到困惑。也许我没有说服你，但我自己完全相信迪克森先生是这个行业的负责人。

‘Indeed you injure me if you suppose me unconvinced. Your reasonings carry my judgment along with them entirely. At first, while I supposed you satisfied that Colonel Campbell was the giver, I saw it only as paternal kindness, and thought it the most natural thing in the world. But when you mentioned Mrs. Dixon, I felt how much more probable that it should be the tribute of warm female friendship. And now I can see it in no other light than as an offering of love.’
“如果你认为我不相信，你确实会伤害我。你的推理完全支持我的判断。起初，虽然我以为你对坎贝尔上校是给予者感到满意，但我认为这只是父亲般的仁慈，并认为这是世界上最自然的事情。但当你提到迪克森夫人时，我觉得这更有可能是对热烈的女性友谊的致敬。现在我只能把它视为一种爱的奉献。

There was no occasion to press the matter farther. The conviction seemed real; he looked as if he felt it. She said no more, other subjects took their turn; and the rest of the dinner passed away; the dessert succeeded, the children came in, and were talked to and admired amid the usual rate of conversation; a few clever things said, a few downright silly, but by much the larger proportion neither the one nor the other—nothing worse than everyday remarks, dull repetitions, old news, and heavy jokes.
没有机会进一步追问此事。这个信念似乎是真实的。他看起来好像感觉到了。她不再说话，轮到其他科目了。剩下的晚餐就这样过去了。甜点成功了，孩子们进来了，他们在平常的谈话中与他们交谈并受到赞赏。说了一些聪明的话，有一些完全愚蠢的话，但大部分都不是一个或另一个——没有什么比日常言论、枯燥的重复、旧新闻和沉重的笑话更糟糕的了。

The ladies had not been long in the drawing-room, before the other ladies, in their different divisions, arrived. Emma watched the entree of her own particular little friend; and if she could not exult in her dignity and grace, she could not only love the blooming sweetness and the artless manner, but could most heartily rejoice in that light, cheerful, unsentimental disposition which allowed her so many alleviations of pleasure, in the midst of the pangs of disappointed affection. There she sat—and who would have guessed how many tears she had been lately shedding? To be in company, nicely dressed herself and seeing others nicely dressed, to sit and smile and look pretty, and say nothing, was enough for the happiness of the present hour. Jane Fairfax did look and move superior; but Emma suspected she might have been glad to change feelings with Harriet, very glad to have purchased the mortification of having loved—yes, of having loved even Mr. Elton in vain—by the surrender of all the dangerous pleasure of knowing herself beloved by the husband of her friend.
女士们在客厅里待了没多久，不同部门的其他女士就到了。艾玛看着她自己的小朋友的主菜。如果她不能为自己的尊严和优雅而欢欣鼓舞，她不仅会喜欢绽放的甜蜜和天真无邪的举止，而且会衷心地为那种轻松、开朗、不带感情色彩的性情感到高兴，这种性情使她在生活中可以减轻许多快乐。感情失望的痛苦。她坐在那里——谁能猜到她最近流了多少眼泪？和别人在一起，自己打扮得漂漂亮亮，看到别人打扮得漂漂亮亮，坐着微笑，看上去很漂亮，一言不发，就足够了此刻的幸福。简·费尔法克斯看上去确实很出众，举止也很出众。但艾玛怀疑她可能很高兴与哈丽特改变感情，很高兴通过放弃所有危险的快乐来换取曾经爱过的屈辱——是的，甚至徒劳地爱过埃尔顿先生。她朋友的丈夫。

In so large a party it was not necessary that Emma should approach her. She did not wish to speak of the pianoforte, she felt too much in the secret herself, to think the appearance of curiosity or interest fair, and therefore purposely kept at a distance; but by the others, the subject was almost immediately introduced, and she saw the blush of consciousness with which congratulations were received, the blush of guilt which accompanied the name of ‘my excellent friend Colonel Campbell.’
在这么大的聚会上，艾玛没有必要接近她。她不想谈论钢琴，她自己对这个秘密感到太多，不认为表现出好奇或兴趣是公平的，因此故意保持距离；但其他人几乎立刻就介绍了这个话题，她看到了人们在收到祝贺时脸上的红晕，以及伴随着“我的好朋友坎贝尔上校”这个名字而来的愧疚的脸红。

Mrs. Weston, kind-hearted and musical, was particularly interested by the circumstance, and Emma could not help being amused at her perseverance in dwelling on the subject; and having so much to ask and to say as to tone, touch, and pedal, totally unsuspicious of that wish of saying as little about it as possible, which she plainly read in the fair heroine’s countenance.
韦斯顿夫人心地善良，乐于助人，她对这种情况特别感兴趣，艾玛不禁对她坚持不懈地思考这个话题感到好笑。对于音调、触感和踏板，她有太多要问和要说的事情，她完全不怀疑自己希望尽可能少说的愿望，她从美丽的女主人公的脸上清楚地读到了这一点。

They were soon joined by some of the gentlemen; and the very first of the early was Frank Churchill. In he walked, the first and the handsomest; and after paying his compliments en passant to Miss Bates and her niece, made his way directly to the opposite side of the circle, where sat Miss Woodhouse; and till he could find a seat by her, would not sit at all. Emma divined what every body present must be thinking. She was his object, and every body must perceive it. She introduced him to her friend, Miss Smith, and, at convenient moments afterwards, heard what each thought of the other. ‘He had never seen so lovely a face, and was delighted with her naivete.’ And she, ‘Only to be sure it was paying him too great a compliment, but she did think there were some looks a little like Mr. Elton.’ Emma restrained her indignation, and only turned from her in silence.
很快，一些绅士也加入了他们的行列。早期的第一个是弗兰克·丘吉尔。他走了进来，是第一个，也是最英俊的一个；路过贝茨小姐和她的侄女致意后，他直接走到圆圈的另一边，伍德豪斯小姐就坐在那里。在她找到座位之前，他根本不会坐。艾玛猜到了在场的每个人一定在想什么。她是他的对象，每个人都必须感知到这一点。她把他介绍给她的朋友史密斯小姐，然后在方便的时候，听听彼此对对方的看法。 “他从未见过如此可爱的面孔，并对她的天真感到高兴。”而她，“只是为了确定这对他的恭维太过分了，但她确实认为有些人看起来有点像埃尔顿先生。”艾玛克制住自己的愤怒，只是默默地转过身去。

Smiles of intelligence passed between her and the gentleman on first glancing towards Miss Fairfax; but it was most prudent to avoid speech. He told her that he had been impatient to leave the dining-room— hated sitting long—was always the first to move when he could— that his father, Mr. Knightley, Mr. Cox, and Mr. Cole, were left very busy over parish business—that as long as he had staid, however, it had been pleasant enough, as he had found them in general a set of gentlemanlike, sensible men; and spoke so handsomely of Highbury altogether—thought it so abundant in agreeable families— that Emma began to feel she had been used to despise the place rather too much. She questioned him as to the society in Yorkshire— the extent of the neighbourhood about Enscombe, and the sort; and could make out from his answers that, as far as Enscombe was concerned, there was very little going on, that their visitings were among a range of great families, none very near; and that even when days were fixed, and invitations accepted, it was an even chance that Mrs. Churchill were not in health and spirits for going; that they made a point of visiting no fresh person; and that, though he had his separate engagements, it was not without difficulty, without considerable address at times, that he could get away, or introduce an acquaintance for a night.
当她第一眼看到费尔法克斯小姐时，她和那位绅士之间就流露出智慧的微笑。但最谨慎的做法是避免讲话。他告诉她，他一直不耐烦地离开餐厅——讨厌久坐——只要有机会，他总是第一个走动——他的父亲、奈特利先生、考克斯先生和科尔先生都很忙。关于教区事务——不过，只要他保持冷静，就已经足够令人愉快了，因为他发现他们总体上是一群绅士风度、明智的人。她对海布里的评价非常好——认为这里有很多和睦的家庭——爱玛开始觉得她已经习惯了太瞧不起这个地方了。她向他询问了约克郡的社会情况——恩斯库姆附近的范围，等等；从他的回答中可以看出，就恩斯库姆而言，几乎没有发生什么事情，他们来访的对象是一系列大家族，但没有一个离得很近。即使日子已经确定，邀请也被接受，丘吉尔夫人也有可能身体状况不佳，精神不振，无法前往。他们特意不去拜访新人；尽管他有各自的约会，但他要离开，或者介绍一个熟人过夜，并不是没有困难，有时没有相当多的演讲。

She saw that Enscombe could not satisfy, and that Highbury, taken at its best, might reasonably please a young man who had more retirement at home than he liked. His importance at Enscombe was very evident. He did not boast, but it naturally betrayed itself, that he had persuaded his aunt where his uncle could do nothing, and on her laughing and noticing it, he owned that he believed (excepting one or two points) he could with time persuade her to any thing. One of those points on which his influence failed, he then mentioned. He had wanted very much to go abroad—had been very eager indeed to be allowed to travel—but she would not hear of it. This had happened the year before. Now, he said, he was beginning to have no longer the same wish.
她发现恩斯库姆无法让她满意，而海布里在最好的情况下可能会令一个在家中退休时间超过他所希望的年轻人满意。他在恩斯库姆的重要性非常明显。他没有自吹自擂，但这自然地暴露了自己，他说服了姨妈，而他的叔叔无能为力，当她大笑并注意到这一点时，他承认他相信（除了一两点）他可以随着时间的推移说服她对任何事情。他随后提到，这是他的影响力失败的原因之一。他非常想出国——确实非常渴望被允许去旅行——但她不肯听。这件事发生在前一年。现在，他说，他开始不再有同样的愿望了。

The unpersuadable point, which he did not mention, Emma guessed to be good behaviour to his father.
他没有提到的难以说服的一点，艾玛猜想是对他父亲的良好行为。

‘I have made a most wretched discovery,’ said he, after a short pause.— ‘I have been here a week to-morrow—half my time. I never knew days fly so fast. A week to-morrow!—And I have hardly begun to enjoy myself. But just got acquainted with Mrs. Weston, and others!— I hate the recollection.’
“我有了一个最不幸的发现，”他停顿了一下后说道，“明天我已经在这里呆了一个星期了——一半的时间。我从来不知道日子过得这么快。明天就是一个星期了！——而我还没有开始享受生活。但刚刚认识了韦斯顿夫人和其他人！——我讨厌这样的回忆。

‘Perhaps you may now begin to regret that you spent one whole day, out of so few, in having your hair cut.’
“也许你现在可能开始后悔自己花了一整天的时间去剪头发。”

‘No,’ said he, smiling, ‘that is no subject of regret at all. I have no pleasure in seeing my friends, unless I can believe myself fit to be seen.’
“不，”他微笑着说，“这根本不值得遗憾。我不乐意见到我的朋友，除非我相信自己适合被人看见。

The rest of the gentlemen being now in the room, Emma found herself obliged to turn from him for a few minutes, and listen to Mr. Cole. When Mr. Cole had moved away, and her attention could be restored as before, she saw Frank Churchill looking intently across the room at Miss Fairfax, who was sitting exactly opposite.
其余的先生们现在都在房间里了，艾玛发现自己不得不离开他几分钟，听科尔先生讲话。当科尔先生走开后，她的注意力又像以前一样恢复了，她看到弗兰克·丘吉尔聚精会神地看着房间另一边的费尔法克斯小姐，她正坐在对面。

‘What is the matter?’ said she.
“怎么了？”她说。

He started. ‘Thank you for rousing me,’ he replied. ‘I believe I have been very rude; but really Miss Fairfax has done her hair in so odd a way—so very odd a way—that I cannot keep my eyes from her. I never saw any thing so outree!—Those curls!—This must be a fancy of her own. I see nobody else looking like her!— I must go and ask her whether it is an Irish fashion. Shall I?— Yes, I will—I declare I will—and you shall see how she takes it;— whether she colours.’
他开始。 “谢谢你叫醒我，”他回答道。 “我相信我非常粗鲁；但事实上，费尔法克斯小姐的发型实在是太奇怪了——非常奇怪——以至于我无法将目光从她身上移开。我从来没有见过如此离奇的东西！——那些卷发！——这一定是她自己的幻想。我看没有其他人长得像她！——我必须去问她这是否是爱尔兰时尚。我可以吗？——是的，我会——我声明我会——你会看到她如何接受它；——她是否变色。

He was gone immediately; and Emma soon saw him standing before Miss Fairfax, and talking to her; but as to its effect on the young lady, as he had improvidently placed himself exactly between them, exactly in front of Miss Fairfax, she could absolutely distinguish nothing.
他立刻就走了。爱玛很快就看到他站在费尔法克斯小姐面前，正在和她说话。但至于这对这位年轻女士的影响，由于他毫无远见地将自己置于他们之间，恰好在费尔法克斯小姐的前面，她绝对无法区分。

Before he could return to his chair, it was taken by Mrs. Weston.
还没等他坐回椅子上，椅子就被韦斯顿夫人坐了下来。

‘This is the luxury of a large party,’ said she:—‘one can get near every body, and say every thing. My dear Emma, I am longing to talk to you. I have been making discoveries and forming plans, just like yourself, and I must tell them while the idea is fresh. Do you know how Miss Bates and her niece came here?’
“这是一个大型聚会的奢侈，”她说：“一个人可以接近每个人，说出所有事情。我亲爱的艾玛，我很想和你说话。我一直在做出发现并制定计划，就像你一样，我必须在这个想法新鲜的时候告诉他们。你知道贝茨小姐和她的侄女是怎么来到这里的吗？

‘How?—They were invited, were not they?’
“怎么？——他们被邀请了，不是吗？”

‘Oh! yes—but how they were conveyed hither?—the manner of their coming?’
'哦！是的——但是他们是怎么被传送到这里的？——他们来的方式？

‘They walked, I conclude. How else could they come?’
“我的结论是，他们是步行的。”不然他们怎么会来呢？

‘Very true.—Well, a little while ago it occurred to me how very sad it would be to have Jane Fairfax walking home again, late at night, and cold as the nights are now. And as I looked at her, though I never saw her appear to more advantage, it struck me that she was heated, and would therefore be particularly liable to take cold. Poor girl! I could not bear the idea of it; so, as soon as Mr. Weston came into the room, and I could get at him, I spoke to him about the carriage. You may guess how readily he came into my wishes; and having his approbation, I made my way directly to Miss Bates, to assure her that the carriage would be at her service before it took us home; for I thought it would be making her comfortable at once. Good soul! she was as grateful as possible, you may be sure. ‘Nobody was ever so fortunate as herself!’—but with many, many thanks—‘there was no occasion to trouble us, for Mr. Knightley’s carriage had brought, and was to take them home again.’ I was quite surprized;—very glad, I am sure; but really quite surprized. Such a very kind attention—and so thoughtful an attention!— the sort of thing that so few men would think of. And, in short, from knowing his usual ways, I am very much inclined to think that it was for their accommodation the carriage was used at all. I do suspect he would not have had a pair of horses for himself, and that it was only as an excuse for assisting them.’
“非常正确。——好吧，不久前我突然想到，如果简·费尔法克斯在深夜再次步行回家，而且现在的夜晚还很冷，那将会是多么悲伤。当我看着她时，虽然我从未见过她显得更有优势，但我突然意识到她很热，因此特别容易感冒。可怜的姑娘！我无法忍受这个想法；因此，韦斯顿先生一走进房间，我就能找到他，我就跟他谈论了马车的事。你可能猜到他是多么轻易地满足了我的愿望。得到他的认可后，我直接去找贝茨小姐，向她保证马车会在送我们回家之前为她服务。因为我认为这会让她立即感到舒服。好灵魂！你可以肯定，她非常感激。 “没有人比她自己更幸运！”——但我非常感谢——“没有必要麻烦我们，因为奈特利先生的马车已经把他们带回家了。”我很惊讶；——我确信非常高兴；但真的很惊讶。如此善意的关注——如此体贴的关注！——很少有人会想到这种事情。简而言之，从了解他平时的做法来看，我非常倾向于认为这辆马车根本就是为了他们的住宿而使用的。我确实怀疑他不会为自己拥有两匹马，这只是作为帮助他们的借口。

‘Very likely,’ said Emma—‘nothing more likely. I know no man more likely than Mr. Knightley to do the sort of thing—to do any thing really good-natured, useful, considerate, or benevolent. He is not a gallant man, but he is a very humane one; and this, considering Jane Fairfax’s ill-health, would appear a case of humanity to him;—and for an act of unostentatious kindness, there is nobody whom I would fix on more than on Mr. Knightley. I know he had horses to-day—for we arrived together; and I laughed at him about it, but he said not a word that could betray.’
“很有可能，”艾玛说——“没有什么更大的可能了。”我知道没有人比奈特利先生更有可能做这种事——做任何真正善良、有用、体贴或仁慈的事情。他不是一个英勇的人，但他是一个很有人情味的人；考虑到简·费尔法克斯的健康状况不佳，这对他来说似乎是一种人性的表现；——对于一种不张扬的善意行为，没有人比奈特利先生更值得我关注。我知道他今天有马——因为我们是一起到达的；我为此嘲笑他，但他没有说出任何可能背叛的话。

‘Well,’ said Mrs. Weston, smiling, ‘you give him credit for more simple, disinterested benevolence in this instance than I do; for while Miss Bates was speaking, a suspicion darted into my head, and I have never been able to get it out again. The more I think of it, the more probable it appears. In short, I have made a match between Mr. Knightley and Jane Fairfax. See the consequence of keeping you company!—What do you say to it?’
“好吧，”韦斯顿夫人微笑着说，“你认为他在这件事上表现得比我更简单、更无私的仁慈。因为当贝茨小姐说话的时候，一种怀疑突然出现在我的脑海里，我再也无法摆脱它了。我越想，就越觉得有可能。简而言之，我已经在奈特利先生和简·费尔法克斯之间进行了匹配。看看陪伴你的后果吧！——你对此有何评论？

‘Mr. Knightley and Jane Fairfax!’ exclaimed Emma. ‘Dear Mrs. Weston, how could you think of such a thing?—Mr. Knightley!—Mr. Knightley must not marry!—You would not have little Henry cut out from Donwell?— Oh! no, no, Henry must have Donwell. I cannot at all consent to Mr. Knightley’s marrying; and I am sure it is not at all likely. I am amazed that you should think of such a thing.’
'先生。奈特利和简·费尔法克斯！”艾玛惊呼道。 “亲爱的韦斯顿夫人，您怎么会想到这样的事？——韦斯顿先生。”奈特利！——先生。奈特莉绝对不能结婚！——你不会让小亨利从唐威尔身上剔除吗？——哦！不，不，亨利必须拥有唐威尔。我根本不能同意奈特利先生结婚；我确信这根本不可能。我很惊讶你竟然会想到这样的事情。

‘My dear Emma, I have told you what led me to think of it. I do not want the match—I do not want to injure dear little Henry— but the idea has been given me by circumstances; and if Mr. Knightley really wished to marry, you would not have him refrain on Henry’s account, a boy of six years old, who knows nothing of the matter?’
“我亲爱的艾玛，我已经告诉过你是什么让我想到了这一点。我不想参加比赛——我不想伤害亲爱的小亨利——但这个想法是环境给我的；如果奈特利先生真的想结婚，你不会让他因为亨利这个六岁男孩、对这件事一无所知而拒绝结婚吧？

‘Yes, I would. I could not bear to have Henry supplanted.— Mr. Knightley marry!—No, I have never had such an idea, and I cannot adopt it now. And Jane Fairfax, too, of all women!’
'是的，我会。我无法忍受亨利被取代。——奈特利先生结婚！——不，我从来没有过这样的想法，现在我也不能采纳。在所有女性中，还有简·费尔法克斯！

‘Nay, she has always been a first favourite with him, as you very well know.’
“不，她一直是他的最爱，这一点你很清楚。”

‘But the imprudence of such a match!’
“但是这样的比赛实在是太轻率了！”

‘I am not speaking of its prudence; merely its probability.’
“我并不是在谈论它的谨慎；而是在谈论它的谨慎。”只是它的概率。

‘I see no probability in it, unless you have any better foundation than what you mention. His good-nature, his humanity, as I tell you, would be quite enough to account for the horses. He has a great regard for the Bateses, you know, independent of Jane Fairfax— and is always glad to shew them attention. My dear Mrs. Weston, do not take to match-making. You do it very ill. Jane Fairfax mistress of the Abbey!—Oh! no, no;—every feeling revolts. For his own sake, I would not have him do so mad a thing.’
“我认为这没有任何可能性，除非你有比你提到的更好的基础。”正如我告诉你的那样，他的善良和人性足以解释这些马的情况。你知道，他非常尊重贝茨夫妇，与简·费尔法克斯无关——而且总是很高兴向他们表示关注。我亲爱的韦斯顿夫人，不要热衷于媒人。你这样做很糟糕。修道院的女主人简·费尔法克斯！——哦！不，不；——每一种感觉都令人厌恶。为了他自己的缘故，我不会让他做出如此疯狂的事情。”

‘Imprudent, if you please—but not mad. Excepting inequality of fortune, and perhaps a little disparity of age, I can see nothing unsuitable.’
“如果你愿意的话，我可以说是轻率——但不是疯狂。”除了财富的不平等，或许还有一点年龄的差距，我看不出有什么不合适的地方。

‘But Mr. Knightley does not want to marry. I am sure he has not the least idea of it. Do not put it into his head. Why should he marry?— He is as happy as possible by himself; with his farm, and his sheep, and his library, and all the parish to manage; and he is extremely fond of his brother’s children. He has no occasion to marry, either to fill up his time or his heart.’
“但是奈特利先生不想结婚。我相信他对此一无所知。不要把它放进他的脑子里。他为什么要结婚？——他一个人就尽可能幸福；带着他的农场、他的羊、他的图书馆，以及所有要管理的教区；他非常喜欢他哥哥的孩子们。他没有机会结婚，要么是为了打发时间，要么是为了打发心灵。”

‘My dear Emma, as long as he thinks so, it is so; but if he really loves Jane Fairfax—‘
“我亲爱的艾玛，只要他这么认为，那就是这样；但如果他真的爱简·费尔法克斯——”

‘Nonsense! He does not care about Jane Fairfax. In the way of love, I am sure he does not. He would do any good to her, or her family; but—‘
'废话！他不关心简·费尔法克斯。在爱情方面，我相信他不会。他愿意为她或她的家人做任何好事；但-'

‘Well,’ said Mrs. Weston, laughing, ‘perhaps the greatest good he could do them, would be to give Jane such a respectable home.’
“好吧，”韦斯顿夫人笑着说，“也许他能为他们做的最大的好事就是给简一个如此体面的家。”

‘If it would be good to her, I am sure it would be evil to himself; a very shameful and degrading connexion. How would he bear to have Miss Bates belonging to him?—To have her haunting the Abbey, and thanking him all day long for his great kindness in marrying Jane?— ‘So very kind and obliging!—But he always had been such a very kind neighbour!’ And then fly off, through half a sentence, to her mother’s old petticoat. ‘Not that it was such a very old petticoat either—for still it would last a great while—and, indeed, she must thankfully say that their petticoats were all very strong.’’
“如果这对她有好处，我相信这对他自己来说就是坏事；这是一种非常可耻和有辱人格的联系。他怎么能忍受贝茨小姐属于他呢？——让她出没在修道院里，整天感谢他娶简的大恩大德？——“非常善良和乐于助人！——但他一直都是这样一个人。”非常友善的邻居！”然后飞走了，说了半句话，就飞向了她母亲的旧衬裙。 “这也不是一件很旧的衬裙——因为它仍然可以穿很长一段时间——而且，事实上，她必须谢天谢地地说，他们的衬裙都非常坚固。”

‘For shame, Emma! Do not mimic her. You divert me against my conscience. And, upon my word, I do not think Mr. Knightley would be much disturbed by Miss Bates. Little things do not irritate him. She might talk on; and if he wanted to say any thing himself, he would only talk louder, and drown her voice. But the question is not, whether it would be a bad connexion for him, but whether he wishes it; and I think he does. I have heard him speak, and so must you, so very highly of Jane Fairfax! The interest he takes in her— his anxiety about her health—his concern that she should have no happier prospect! I have heard him express himself so warmly on those points!—Such an admirer of her performance on the pianoforte, and of her voice! I have heard him say that he could listen to her for ever. Oh! and I had almost forgotten one idea that occurred to me—this pianoforte that has been sent here by somebody— though we have all been so well satisfied to consider it a present from the Campbells, may it not be from Mr. Knightley? I cannot help suspecting him. I think he is just the person to do it, even without being in love.’
“真丢脸，艾玛！不要模仿她。你违背我的良心来转移我的注意力。而且，据我所知，我认为奈特利先生不会因为贝茨小姐而感到太不安。小事不会激怒他。她可能会继续说下去；如果他自己想说什么，他只会大声说话，盖过她的声音。但问题不在于这对他来说是否会是一个糟糕的关系，而在于他是否愿意；我认为他确实如此。我听过他讲话，你也一定听过，对简·费尔法克斯评价很高！他对她的兴趣——他对她健康的焦虑——他担心她不会有更幸福的前景！我听到他在这些问题上如此热情地表达了自己的观点！——她的钢琴演奏和声音是如此崇拜！我听他说过他可以永远听她的。哦！我几乎忘记了我想到的一个想法——这架钢琴是有人送来的——尽管我们都非常满意地认为它是坎贝尔夫妇的礼物，难道它不是奈特利先生送的吗？我不禁怀疑他。我认为他就是这样做的人，即使没有恋爱。”

‘Then it can be no argument to prove that he is in love. But I do not think it is at all a likely thing for him to do. Mr. Knightley does nothing mysteriously.’
‘那么，就没有什么理由证明他恋爱了。但我认为他根本不可能这么做。奈特利先生没有做任何神秘的事情。

‘I have heard him lamenting her having no instrument repeatedly; oftener than I should suppose such a circumstance would, in the common course of things, occur to him.’
“我曾多次听到他为她没有乐器而哀叹；在一般情况下，这种情况发生在他身上的次数比我想象的还要频繁。

‘Very well; and if he had intended to give her one, he would have told her so.’
'很好;如果他打算给她一份，他就会告诉她。

‘There might be scruples of delicacy, my dear Emma. I have a very strong notion that it comes from him. I am sure he was particularly silent when Mrs. Cole told us of it at dinner.’
“可能会有一些顾虑，我亲爱的艾玛。我有一个非常强烈的想法，那就是它来自于他。我确信当科尔夫人在晚餐时告诉我们这件事时，他特别沉默。

‘You take up an idea, Mrs. Weston, and run away with it; as you have many a time reproached me with doing. I see no sign of attachment— I believe nothing of the pianoforte—and proof only shall convince me that Mr. Knightley has any thought of marrying Jane Fairfax.’
“你提出一个想法，韦斯顿夫人，然后就付诸实践；正如你多次责备我所做的那样。我没有看到任何依恋的迹象——我对钢琴一无所知——只有证据才能让我相信奈特利先生有与简·费尔法克斯结婚的想法。

They combated the point some time longer in the same way; Emma rather gaining ground over the mind of her friend; for Mrs. Weston was the most used of the two to yield; till a little bustle in the room shewed them that tea was over, and the instrument in preparation;— and at the same moment Mr. Cole approaching to entreat Miss Woodhouse would do them the honour of trying it. Frank Churchill, of whom, in the eagerness of her conversation with Mrs. Weston, she had been seeing nothing, except that he had found a seat by Miss Fairfax, followed Mr. Cole, to add his very pressing entreaties; and as, in every respect, it suited Emma best to lead, she gave a very proper compliance.
他们以同样的方式与这一点进行了长时间的斗争。艾玛相当赢得了她朋友的心。因为韦斯顿夫人是两人中最习惯屈服的一个。直到房间里的一阵喧闹声告诉他们，茶已经结束了，乐器正在准备中；——与此同时，科尔先生走近，恳求伍德豪斯小姐让他们有幸尝试一下。弗兰克·丘吉尔在与韦斯顿夫人的热切交谈中，除了在费尔法克斯小姐旁边找到了一个座位之外，什么也没看到。从各方面来看，艾玛都最适合领导，所以她非常顺从。

She knew the limitations of her own powers too well to attempt more than she could perform with credit; she wanted neither taste nor spirit in the little things which are generally acceptable, and could accompany her own voice well. One accompaniment to her song took her agreeably by surprize—a second, slightly but correctly taken by Frank Churchill. Her pardon was duly begged at the close of the song, and every thing usual followed. He was accused of having a delightful voice, and a perfect knowledge of music; which was properly denied; and that he knew nothing of the matter, and had no voice at all, roundly asserted. They sang together once more; and Emma would then resign her place to Miss Fairfax, whose performance, both vocal and instrumental, she never could attempt to conceal from herself, was infinitely superior to her own.
她太清楚自己能力的局限性，不能尝试超出她能做到的事。她既不需要品味，也不需要精神上的小事，这些都是普遍可以接受的，并且可以很好地配合自己的声音。她的歌曲中的一首伴奏让她感到惊喜——第二首伴奏是弗兰克·丘吉尔（Frank Churchill）演奏的，虽然稍显轻微，但正确无误。在歌曲结束时，她适时地请求了她的原谅，一切都如常进行。他被指控拥有令人愉悦的声音和完美的音乐知识；这被正确地拒绝了；他对此事一无所知，也没有任何明确的声音。他们再次一起唱歌；然后，艾玛将她的位置让给了费尔法克斯小姐，她的表演，无论是声乐还是器乐，她都无法向自己隐瞒，她的表演无限优于她自己。

With mixed feelings, she seated herself at a little distance from the numbers round the instrument, to listen. Frank Churchill sang again. They had sung together once or twice, it appeared, at Weymouth. But the sight of Mr. Knightley among the most attentive, soon drew away half Emma’s mind; and she fell into a train of thinking on the subject of Mrs. Weston’s suspicions, to which the sweet sounds of the united voices gave only momentary interruptions. Her objections to Mr. Knightley’s marrying did not in the least subside. She could see nothing but evil in it. It would be a great disappointment to Mr. John Knightley; consequently to Isabella. A real injury to the children—a most mortifying change, and material loss to them all;—a very great deduction from her father’s daily comfort—and, as to herself, she could not at all endure the idea of Jane Fairfax at Donwell Abbey. A Mrs. Knightley for them all to give way to!—No—Mr. Knightley must never marry. Little Henry must remain the heir of Donwell.
她怀着复杂的心情，坐在离乐器周围的数字稍远的地方，听着。弗兰克·丘吉尔再次唱歌。看来他们在韦茅斯曾一起唱歌过一两次。但奈特利先生是最专注的人之一，艾玛的注意力很快就被转移了一半。她对韦斯顿夫人的怀疑陷入了一系列的思考，而甜美的声音只短暂地打断了她的思考。她对奈特利先生结婚的反对丝毫没有减弱。她看不到其中的邪恶。这会让约翰·奈特利先生非常失望。因此对伊莎贝拉来说。这对孩子们来说是一种真正的伤害——一种最令人羞愧的变化，对他们所有人来说都是物质上的损失；——对她父亲日常的舒适来说是一个很大的减损——而且，就她自己而言，她根本无法忍受简·费尔法克斯在唐威尔修道院的想法。奈特利夫人让他们所有人都让路！——不——先生。奈特莉绝对不能结婚。小亨利必须继续是唐威尔的继承人。

Presently Mr. Knightley looked back, and came and sat down by her. They talked at first only of the performance. His admiration was certainly very warm; yet she thought, but for Mrs. Weston, it would not have struck her. As a sort of touchstone, however, she began to speak of his kindness in conveying the aunt and niece; and though his answer was in the spirit of cutting the matter short, she believed it to indicate only his disinclination to dwell on any kindness of his own.
不久，奈特利先生回头看了一眼，走过来在她身边坐下。他们一开始只谈论表演。他的钦佩当然是非常热烈的。但她想，如果不是韦斯顿夫人，她不会想到这一点。然而，作为一种试金石，她开始谈到他在传达阿姨和侄女时的善意；尽管他的回答是为了简短地回答这个问题，但她相信这只是表明他不愿意过多谈论自己的善意。

‘I often feel concern,’ said she, ‘that I dare not make our carriage more useful on such occasions. It is not that I am without the wish; but you know how impossible my father would deem it that James should put-to for such a purpose.’
“我经常感到担心，”她说，“在这种情况下我不敢让我们的马车变得更有用。并不是我没有这个愿望，而是我没有这个愿望。但你知道我父亲会认为詹姆斯为了这样的目的而做出的努力是多么不可能。

‘Quite out of the question, quite out of the question,’ he replied;— ‘but you must often wish it, I am sure.’ And he smiled with such seeming pleasure at the conviction, that she must proceed another step.
“完全不可能，完全不可能，”他回答道，“但我相信，你一定常常希望如此。”他微笑着，似乎很高兴地确信她必须继续前进。

‘This present from the Campbells,’ said she—‘this pianoforte is very kindly given.’
“坎贝尔夫妇的礼物，”她说，“这架钢琴是非常慷慨的礼物。”

‘Yes,’ he replied, and without the smallest apparent embarrassment.— ‘But they would have done better had they given her notice of it. Surprizes are foolish things. The pleasure is not enhanced, and the inconvenience is often considerable. I should have expected better judgment in Colonel Campbell.’
“是的，”他回答道，没有丝毫明显的尴尬。——“但是如果他们通知她的话，他们会做得更好。”惊喜是愚蠢的事情。乐趣并没有增强，而且带来的不便往往是相当大的。我本应该期待坎贝尔上校有更好的判断力。”

From that moment, Emma could have taken her oath that Mr. Knightley had had no concern in giving the instrument. But whether he were entirely free from peculiar attachment—whether there were no actual preference—remained a little longer doubtful. Towards the end of Jane’s second song, her voice grew thick.
从那一刻起，艾玛就可以发誓，奈特利先生并不在乎赠送这件乐器。但他是否完全摆脱了特殊的依恋——是否没有真正的偏好——仍然有点令人怀疑。简的第二首歌快结束时，她的声音变得粗哑。

‘That will do,’ said he, when it was finished, thinking aloud— ‘you have sung quite enough for one evening—now be quiet.’
“这样就行了，”唱完后，他一边自言自语地说，“你已经唱够了一晚上了——现在安静点。”

Another song, however, was soon begged for. ‘One more;—they would not fatigue Miss Fairfax on any account, and would only ask for one more.’ And Frank Churchill was heard to say, ‘I think you could manage this without effort; the first part is so very trifling. The strength of the song falls on the second.’
然而，很快就有人要求另一首歌。 “再多一份；——无论如何，他们不会让费尔法克斯小姐感到疲劳，只会要求再多一份。”有人听到弗兰克·丘吉尔说：“我认为你可以毫不费力地做到这一点；你可以做到这一点。”第一部分非常琐碎。这首歌的强度落在第二个。

Mr. Knightley grew angry.
奈特利先生生气了。

‘That fellow,’ said he, indignantly, ‘thinks of nothing but shewing off his own voice. This must not be.’ And touching Miss Bates, who at that moment passed near—‘Miss Bates, are you mad, to let your niece sing herself hoarse in this manner? Go, and interfere. They have no mercy on her.’
“这家伙，”他愤怒地说，“除了炫耀自己的声音之外，什么都不想。这一定不是这样的。”然后触摸贝茨小姐，贝茨小姐这时走过来了——“贝茨小姐，你疯了吗，让你的侄女这样唱得声音嘶哑？去干涉吧。他们对她没有怜悯。

Miss Bates, in her real anxiety for Jane, could hardly stay even to be grateful, before she stept forward and put an end to all farther singing. Here ceased the concert part of the evening, for Miss Woodhouse and Miss Fairfax were the only young lady performers; but soon (within five minutes) the proposal of dancing— originating nobody exactly knew where—was so effectually promoted by Mr. and Mrs. Cole, that every thing was rapidly clearing away, to give proper space. Mrs. Weston, capital in her country-dances, was seated, and beginning an irresistible waltz; and Frank Churchill, coming up with most becoming gallantry to Emma, had secured her hand, and led her up to the top.
贝茨小姐真正为简感到焦虑，几乎无法留下来表达感激之情，然后她走上前，结束了所有进一步的歌声。当晚的音乐会部分到此结束，因为伍德豪斯小姐和费尔法克斯小姐是唯一的年轻女士表演者。但很快（五分钟之内），跳舞的提议——没有人知道确切的起源——被科尔先生和科尔夫人有效地推动了，以至于一切都很快被清理掉，以腾出适当的空间。韦斯顿夫人在她的乡村舞蹈中表现出色，坐下来，开始跳一支令人难以抗拒的华尔兹舞。弗兰克·丘吉尔对艾玛表现出了最殷勤的态度，拉住了她的手，领着她登上了山顶。

While waiting till the other young people could pair themselves off, Emma found time, in spite of the compliments she was receiving on her voice and her taste, to look about, and see what became of Mr. Knightley. This would be a trial. He was no dancer in general. If he were to be very alert in engaging Jane Fairfax now, it might augur something. There was no immediate appearance. No; he was talking to Mrs. Cole— he was looking on unconcerned; Jane was asked by somebody else, and he was still talking to Mrs. Cole.
在等待其他年轻人结对时，尽管艾玛的声音和品味受到了称赞，但她还是抽出了时间四处看看，看看奈特利先生怎么样了。这将是一次审判。他不是一般的舞者。如果他现在非常警惕地与简·费尔法克斯交往，那可能会预示着什么。没有立即出现。不;他正在和科尔夫人说话——他漠不关心地看着；简然是被别人问起的，而他还在和科尔夫人说话。

Emma had no longer an alarm for Henry; his interest was yet safe; and she led off the dance with genuine spirit and enjoyment. Not more than five couple could be mustered; but the rarity and the suddenness of it made it very delightful, and she found herself well matched in a partner. They were a couple worth looking at.
艾玛不再对亨利产生警觉；她不再担心亨利。他的兴趣仍然安全；她以真诚的精神和享受引领了舞蹈。最多可召集五对情侣；但它的稀有性和突然性让她非常高兴，她发现自己找到了一个很般配的伴侣。他们是一对值得一看的情侣。

Two dances, unfortunately, were all that could be allowed. It was growing late, and Miss Bates became anxious to get home, on her mother’s account. After some attempts, therefore, to be permitted to begin again, they were obliged to thank Mrs. Weston, look sorrowful, and have done.
不幸的是，只允许跳两支舞。天色已晚，贝茨小姐因为母亲的缘故急于回家。因此，经过一番尝试才获准重新开始，他们不得不感谢韦斯顿夫人，表情悲伤，然后就这么做了。

‘Perhaps it is as well,’ said Frank Churchill, as he attended Emma to her carriage. ‘I must have asked Miss Fairfax, and her languid dancing would not have agreed with me, after your’s.’
“也许这样也好，”弗兰克·丘吉尔边说边送艾玛上马车。 “我一定问过费尔法克斯小姐，在你的舞蹈之后，她那慵懒的舞蹈不会让我同意。”

Chapter IX
第九章

Emma did not repent her condescension in going to the Coles. The visit afforded her many pleasant recollections the next day; and all that she might be supposed to have lost on the side of dignified seclusion, must be amply repaid in the splendour of popularity. She must have delighted the Coles—worthy people, who deserved to be made happy!—And left a name behind her that would not soon die away.
艾玛并没有后悔自己去科尔斯的屈尊俯就。这次拜访给她第二天留下了许多愉快的回忆。她在有尊严的隐居生活中可能失去的一切，都必须在声望的辉煌中得到充分的补偿。她一定让科尔斯一家人很高兴——有价值的人，值得让他们幸福！——并在她身后留下了一个不会很快消失的名字。

Perfect happiness, even in memory, is not common; and there were two points on which she was not quite easy. She doubted whether she had not transgressed the duty of woman by woman, in betraying her suspicions of Jane Fairfax’s feelings to Frank Churchill. It was hardly right; but it had been so strong an idea, that it would escape her, and his submission to all that she told, was a compliment to her penetration, which made it difficult for her to be quite certain that she ought to have held her tongue.
完美的幸福，即使在记忆中，也不常见。有两点让她不太放心。她怀疑自己向弗兰克·丘吉尔泄露了她对简·费尔法克斯感情的怀疑，是否违反了每个女人的义务。这不太对劲。但这个想法是如此强烈，以至于她无法察觉，而他对她所说的一切的服从，是对她洞察力的恭维，这让她很难确定自己是否应该闭嘴。

The other circumstance of regret related also to Jane Fairfax; and there she had no doubt. She did unfeignedly and unequivocally regret the inferiority of her own playing and singing. She did most heartily grieve over the idleness of her childhood—and sat down and practised vigorously an hour and a half.
另一种遗憾的情况也与简·费尔法克斯有关。对此她毫不怀疑。她确实毫不掩饰地、毫不含糊地对自己弹唱的低劣感到遗憾。她对自己童年的无所事事感到由衷的悲伤，然后坐下来，奋力练习了一个半小时。

She was then interrupted by Harriet’s coming in; and if Harriet’s praise could have satisfied her, she might soon have been comforted.
然后她被哈丽特进来打断了。如果哈丽特的赞美能让她满意的话，她可能很快就会得到安慰。

‘Oh! if I could but play as well as you and Miss Fairfax!’
'哦！如果我能像你和费尔法克斯小姐一样演奏就好了！

‘Don’t class us together, Harriet. My playing is no more like her’s, than a lamp is like sunshine.’
“别把我们归为一类，哈丽特。我的演奏与她的演奏不同，就像一盏灯不像阳光一样。

‘Oh! dear—I think you play the best of the two. I think you play quite as well as she does. I am sure I had much rather hear you. Every body last night said how well you played.’
'哦！亲爱的——我认为你是两者中最好的。我认为你弹得和她一样好。我确信我更愿意听你说。昨晚每个人都说你打得有多好。

‘Those who knew any thing about it, must have felt the difference. The truth is, Harriet, that my playing is just good enough to be praised, but Jane Fairfax’s is much beyond it.’
“那些对此有所了解的人一定能感受到其中的不同。事实上，哈丽特，我的演奏刚刚好，值得赞扬，但简·费尔法克斯的演奏远远超出了这一点。

‘Well, I always shall think that you play quite as well as she does, or that if there is any difference nobody would ever find it out. Mr. Cole said how much taste you had; and Mr. Frank Churchill talked a great deal about your taste, and that he valued taste much more than execution.’
“好吧，我总是认为你弹得和她一样好，或者如果有什么不同，没人会发现。科尔先生说你有多么有品味；弗兰克·丘吉尔先生对你的品味谈了很多，他更看重品味而不是执行力。

‘Ah! but Jane Fairfax has them both, Harriet.’
'啊！但简·费尔法克斯两者都有，哈丽特。”

‘Are you sure? I saw she had execution, but I did not know she had any taste. Nobody talked about it. And I hate Italian singing.— There is no understanding a word of it. Besides, if she does play so very well, you know, it is no more than she is obliged to do, because she will have to teach. The Coxes were wondering last night whether she would get into any great family. How did you think the Coxes looked?’
'你确定吗？我看到她有执行力，却不知道她有没有品味。没有人谈论这件事。我讨厌意大利歌声。——其中一个字都听不懂。此外，如果她确实弹得这么好，你知道，这只是她必须做的，因为她必须教书。考克斯夫妇昨晚想知道她是否会进入任何一个伟大的家庭。你觉得考克斯夫妇看起来怎么样？

‘Just as they always do—very vulgar.’
“就像他们一贯做的那样——非常粗俗。”

‘They told me something,’ said Harriet rather hesitatingly;’ but it is nothing of any consequence.’
“他们告诉了我一些事情，”哈丽特有些犹豫地说，“但这并不重要。”

Emma was obliged to ask what they had told her, though fearful of its producing Mr. Elton.
艾玛不得不问他们告诉了她什么，尽管担心这会产生埃尔顿先生。

‘They told me—-that Mr. Martin dined with them last Saturday.’
“他们告诉我——马丁先生上周六和他们一起吃饭。”

‘Oh!’
'哦！'

‘He came to their father upon some business, and he asked him to stay to dinner.’
“他有事来找他们的父亲，父亲请他留下来吃晚饭。”

‘Oh!’
'哦！'

‘They talked a great deal about him, especially Anne Cox. I do not know what she meant, but she asked me if I thought I should go and stay there again next summer.’
“他们谈论了很多关于他的事，尤其是安妮·考克斯。我不知道她的意思，但她问我是否应该明年夏天再去那里住。

‘She meant to be impertinently curious, just as such an Anne Cox should be.’
“她本意是要表现出无礼的好奇心，就像安妮·考克斯应该有的那样。”

‘She said he was very agreeable the day he dined there. He sat by her at dinner. Miss Nash thinks either of the Coxes would be very glad to marry him.’
“她说他在那儿吃饭的那天非常愉快。晚餐时他坐在她旁边。纳什小姐认为考克斯夫妇中的任何一个人都会很高兴嫁给他。

‘Very likely.—I think they are, without exception, the most vulgar girls in Highbury.’
“很有可能。——我想她们无一例外都是海布里最粗俗的女孩。”

Harriet had business at Ford’s.—Emma thought it most prudent to go with her. Another accidental meeting with the Martins was possible, and in her present state, would be dangerous.
哈丽特在福特家有事。——艾玛认为和她一起去是最谨慎的做法。再次与马丁一家的意外相遇是有可能的，而以她目前的状态，这将是危险的。

Harriet, tempted by every thing and swayed by half a word, was always very long at a purchase; and while she was still hanging over muslins and changing her mind, Emma went to the door for amusement.—Much could not be hoped from the traffic of even the busiest part of Highbury;— Mr. Perry walking hastily by, Mr. William Cox letting himself in at the office-door, Mr. Cole’s carriage-horses returning from exercise, or a stray letter-boy on an obstinate mule, were the liveliest objects she could presume to expect; and when her eyes fell only on the butcher with his tray, a tidy old woman travelling homewards from shop with her full basket, two curs quarrelling over a dirty bone, and a string of dawdling children round the baker’s little bow-window eyeing the gingerbread, she knew she had no reason to complain, and was amused enough; quite enough still to stand at the door. A mind lively and at ease, can do with seeing nothing, and can see nothing that does not answer.
哈丽雅特受到一切事物的诱惑，并受到半个字的影响，总是很愿意购买。当艾玛还在犹豫着穿平纹细布并改变主意时，她走到门口取乐。——即使是海布里最繁忙的地方，交通也不能抱太大希望；——佩里先生匆匆走过，威廉·考克斯先生让自己走进办公室门口，科尔先生锻炼回来的马车，或者骑着顽固骡子的流浪送信员，都是她能想到的最生动的物体；当她的目光只落在端着托盘的屠夫身上时，一位衣着整洁的老妇人拎着满满一篮子从商店回家，两只小野狗正在为一根肮脏的骨头争吵，一群磨蹭的孩子围着面包师的小弓窗盯着姜饼。 ，她知道自己没有理由抱怨，也足够好笑了；还够站在门口的。心活泼自在，能无所见，亦能见无所不应。

She looked down the Randalls road. The scene enlarged; two persons appeared; Mrs. Weston and her son-in-law; they were walking into Highbury;—to Hartfield of course. They were stopping, however, in the first place at Mrs. Bates’s; whose house was a little nearer Randalls than Ford’s; and had all but knocked, when Emma caught their eye.—Immediately they crossed the road and came forward to her; and the agreeableness of yesterday’s engagement seemed to give fresh pleasure to the present meeting. Mrs. Weston informed her that she was going to call on the Bateses, in order to hear the new instrument.
她朝兰德尔斯路望去。场景放大了；出现了两个人；韦斯顿夫人和她的女婿；他们正走进海布里——当然是哈特菲尔德。然而，他们首先是在贝茨夫人家停下来的。他的房子比福特的房子更靠近兰德尔斯；几乎敲门时，艾玛注意到了他们的目光。——他们立刻穿过马路，向她走来。昨天的愉快的约定似乎给这次的会面带来了新的乐趣。韦斯顿夫人告诉她，她要去拜访贝茨夫妇，以便聆听新乐器。

‘For my companion tells me,’ said she, ‘that I absolutely promised Miss Bates last night, that I would come this morning. I was not aware of it myself. I did not know that I had fixed a day, but as he says I did, I am going now.’
“因为我的同伴告诉我，”她说，“昨晚我绝对答应贝茨小姐，今天早上我会来。”我自己并没有意识到这一点。我不知道我已经定了一天，但正如他所说，我现在就走了。”

‘And while Mrs. Weston pays her visit, I may be allowed, I hope,’ said Frank Churchill, ‘to join your party and wait for her at Hartfield— if you are going home.’
“当韦斯顿夫人来访时，我希望我可以被允许加入你们的队伍，并在哈特菲尔德等她——如果你们要回家的话。”

Mrs. Weston was disappointed.
韦斯顿夫人很失望。

‘I thought you meant to go with me. They would be very much pleased.’
“我以为你打算和我一起去。他们会非常高兴的。

‘Me! I should be quite in the way. But, perhaps—I may be equally in the way here. Miss Woodhouse looks as if she did not want me. My aunt always sends me off when she is shopping. She says I fidget her to death; and Miss Woodhouse looks as if she could almost say the same. What am I to do?’
'我！我应该很碍事。但是，也许——我在这里可能同样会受到阻碍。伍德豪斯小姐看起来好像不想要我。我阿姨去购物时总是送我。她说我烦死她了；伍德豪斯小姐看起来似乎也能说出同样的话。我是什么做的？'

‘I am here on no business of my own,’ said Emma; ‘I am only waiting for my friend. She will probably have soon done, and then we shall go home. But you had better go with Mrs. Weston and hear the instrument.’
“我来这里并不是为了自己的事，”艾玛说。 ‘我只是在等我的朋友。她可能很快就会做完，然后我们就回家了。但你最好和韦斯顿夫人一起去听听乐器。

‘Well—if you advise it.—But (with a smile) if Colonel Campbell should have employed a careless friend, and if it should prove to have an indifferent tone—what shall I say? I shall be no support to Mrs. Weston. She might do very well by herself. A disagreeable truth would be palatable through her lips, but I am the wretchedest being in the world at a civil falsehood.’
“好吧——如果你建议的话。——但是（微笑着）如果坎贝尔上校雇佣了一个粗心的朋友，如果事实证明他的语气是冷漠的——我该怎么说呢？我不会支持韦斯顿夫人。她一个人也许会做得很好。令人不快的真相从她嘴里说出来可能会很容易接受，但我是世界上最可怜的人，在民事谎言中。

‘I do not believe any such thing,’ replied Emma.—‘I am persuaded that you can be as insincere as your neighbours, when it is necessary; but there is no reason to suppose the instrument is indifferent. Quite otherwise indeed, if I understood Miss Fairfax’s opinion last night.’
“我不相信这样的事，”艾玛回答说。“我相信，在必要的时候，你可以像你的邻居一样不真诚；但没有理由认为该仪器无动于衷。如果我昨晚理解费尔法克斯小姐的意见的话，情况确实完全不同。

‘Do come with me,’ said Mrs. Weston, ‘if it be not very disagreeable to you. It need not detain us long. We will go to Hartfield afterwards. We will follow them to Hartfield. I really wish you to call with me. It will be felt so great an attention! and I always thought you meant it.’
“请跟我来，”韦斯顿夫人说，“如果你不是很不舒服的话。”它不需要让我们耽搁太久。之后我们将前往哈特菲尔德。我们将跟随他们前往哈特菲尔德。我真的希望你能和我一起打电话。会感受到如此巨大的关注！我一直以为你是认真的。”

He could say no more; and with the hope of Hartfield to reward him, returned with Mrs. Weston to Mrs. Bates’s door. Emma watched them in, and then joined Harriet at the interesting counter,—trying, with all the force of her own mind, to convince her that if she wanted plain muslin it was of no use to look at figured; and that a blue ribbon, be it ever so beautiful, would still never match her yellow pattern. At last it was all settled, even to the destination of the parcel.
他不能再说什么了；怀着哈特菲尔德奖赏他的希望，他和韦斯顿夫人一起回到了贝茨夫人的门口。艾玛看着他们进来，然后和哈丽特一起来到有趣的柜台前，用尽全力说服她，如果她想要普通的平纹细布，那么看起来有花纹的衣服是没有用的；她想要的是普通的平纹细布。蓝色的丝带，无论多么美丽，仍然永远无法与她的黄色图案相匹配。终于一切都解决了，连包裹的目的地也解决了。

‘Should I send it to Mrs. Goddard’s, ma’am?’ asked Mrs. Ford.— ‘Yes—no—yes, to Mrs. Goddard’s. Only my pattern gown is at Hartfield. No, you shall send it to Hartfield, if you please. But then, Mrs. Goddard will want to see it.—And I could take the pattern gown home any day. But I shall want the ribbon directly— so it had better go to Hartfield—at least the ribbon. You could make it into two parcels, Mrs. Ford, could not you?’
“我应该把它寄到戈达德夫人家吗，女士？”福特夫人问道。——“是——不—​​—是，寄到戈达德夫人家。”只有我的图案礼服在哈特菲尔德。不，如果您愿意的话，您可以将其发送到哈特菲尔德。但是，戈达德夫人会想看看它。——而且我随时都可以把这件图案礼服带回家。但我会直接想要丝带——所以最好去哈特菲尔德——至少是丝带。你可以把它分成两块，福特夫人，不是吗？

‘It is not worth while, Harriet, to give Mrs. Ford the trouble of two parcels.’
“哈里特，不值得给福特夫人带来两个包裹的麻烦。”

‘No more it is.’
“不再是这样了。”

‘No trouble in the world, ma’am,’ said the obliging Mrs. Ford.
“没有什么麻烦，女士，”福特夫人乐于助人地说。

‘Oh! but indeed I would much rather have it only in one. Then, if you please, you shall send it all to Mrs. Goddard’s— I do not know—No, I think, Miss Woodhouse, I may just as well have it sent to Hartfield, and take it home with me at night. What do you advise?’
'哦！但事实上我宁愿只拥有它之一。然后，如果你愿意的话，你可以把它全部寄到戈达德夫人家——我不知道——不，我想，伍德豪斯小姐，我不妨把它寄到哈特菲尔德，晚上带回家。你有什么建议？

‘That you do not give another half-second to the subject. To Hartfield, if you please, Mrs. Ford.’
‘你不要再给这个话题半秒的时间。福特夫人，请到哈特菲尔德去。

‘Aye, that will be much best,’ said Harriet, quite satisfied, ‘I should not at all like to have it sent to Mrs. Goddard’s.’
“是啊，那就太好了，”哈丽雅特很满意地说，“我根本不希望把它送到戈达德夫人那里。”

Voices approached the shop—or rather one voice and two ladies: Mrs. Weston and Miss Bates met them at the door.
声音靠近商店——或者更确切地说，一个声音和两个女士：韦斯顿夫人和贝茨小姐在门口迎接他们。

‘My dear Miss Woodhouse,’ said the latter, ‘I am just run across to entreat the favour of you to come and sit down with us a little while, and give us your opinion of our new instrument; you and Miss Smith. How do you do, Miss Smith?—Very well I thank you.—And I begged Mrs. Weston to come with me, that I might be sure of succeeding.’
“我亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，”后者说道，“我只是跑来请求您过来和我们一起坐一会儿，告诉我们您对我们新乐器的看法；你和史密斯小姐。你好吗，史密斯小姐？——非常感谢你。——我恳求韦斯顿夫人跟我一起去，这样我就一定能成功。

‘I hope Mrs. Bates and Miss Fairfax are—‘
“我希望贝茨夫人和费尔法克斯小姐——”

‘Very well, I am much obliged to you. My mother is delightfully well; and Jane caught no cold last night. How is Mr. Woodhouse?—I am so glad to hear such a good account. Mrs. Weston told me you were here.— Oh! then, said I, I must run across, I am sure Miss Woodhouse will allow me just to run across and entreat her to come in; my mother will be so very happy to see her—and now we are such a nice party, she cannot refuse.—‘Aye, pray do,’ said Mr. Frank Churchill, ‘Miss Woodhouse’s opinion of the instrument will be worth having.’— But, said I, I shall be more sure of succeeding if one of you will go with me.—‘Oh,’ said he, ‘wait half a minute, till I have finished my job;’—For, would you believe it, Miss Woodhouse, there he is, in the most obliging manner in the world, fastening in the rivet of my mother’s spectacles.—The rivet came out, you know, this morning.— So very obliging!—For my mother had no use of her spectacles— could not put them on. And, by the bye, every body ought to have two pair of spectacles; they should indeed. Jane said so. I meant to take them over to John Saunders the first thing I did, but something or other hindered me all the morning; first one thing, then another, there is no saying what, you know. At one time Patty came to say she thought the kitchen chimney wanted sweeping. Oh, said I, Patty do not come with your bad news to me. Here is the rivet of your mistress’s spectacles out. Then the baked apples came home, Mrs. Wallis sent them by her boy; they are extremely civil and obliging to us, the Wallises, always—I have heard some people say that Mrs. Wallis can be uncivil and give a very rude answer, but we have never known any thing but the greatest attention from them. And it cannot be for the value of our custom now, for what is our consumption of bread, you know? Only three of us.— besides dear Jane at present—and she really eats nothing—makes such a shocking breakfast, you would be quite frightened if you saw it. I dare not let my mother know how little she eats—so I say one thing and then I say another, and it passes off. But about the middle of the day she gets hungry, and there is nothing she likes so well as these baked apples, and they are extremely wholesome, for I took the opportunity the other day of asking Mr. Perry; I happened to meet him in the street. Not that I had any doubt before— I have so often heard Mr. Woodhouse recommend a baked apple. I believe it is the only way that Mr. Woodhouse thinks the fruit thoroughly wholesome. We have apple-dumplings, however, very often. Patty makes an excellent apple-dumpling. Well, Mrs. Weston, you have prevailed, I hope, and these ladies will oblige us.’
‘很好，我非常感谢你。我的母亲身体非常好。昨晚简没有感冒。伍德豪斯先生怎么样？——我很高兴听到这么好的说法。韦斯顿夫人告诉我你在这里。——哦！然后，我说，我必须跑过去，我相信伍德豪斯小姐会允许我跑过去并恳求她进来；我的母亲会非常高兴见到她——现在我们是一个如此好的聚会，她无法拒绝。——“是的，请这样做，”弗兰克·丘吉尔先生说，“伍德豪斯小姐对这件乐器的看法值得拥有。” ”——但是，我说，如果你们中有人愿意和我一起去的话，我会更有把握成功。——“哦，”他说，“等半分钟，等我完成我的工作；”——因为，你愿意吗？相信吧，伍德豪斯小姐，他就在那里，以世界上最殷勤的方式，把我母亲眼镜的铆钉固定起来。——铆钉已经出来了，你知道，今天早上。——非常殷勤！——因为我母亲她的眼镜没用——无法戴上。顺便说一句，每个人都应该有两副眼镜；他们确实应该这样做。简如此说道。我做的第一件事就是打算把它们交给约翰·桑德斯，但整个早上都有什么事阻碍了我。首先是一件事，然后是另一件事，没有什么可说的，你知道。有一次帕蒂过来说她认为厨房的烟囱需要清扫。哦，我说，帕蒂不要把你的坏消息告诉我。这是你情妇眼镜上的铆钉。然后，烤苹果就回家了，是沃利斯太太让她的儿子送来的。他们对我们沃利斯一家非常有礼貌，总是很乐于助人——我听有人说沃利斯太太可能很不礼貌，回答得很粗鲁，但我们除了从他们那里得到最大的关注之外，一无所知。 现在不能是为了我们的习俗的价值，因为我们消费面包是为了什么呢，你知道吗？只有我们三个人——除了亲爱的简之外——她真的什么都不吃——做出了如此令人震惊的早餐，如果你看到它，你会感到非常害怕。我不敢让妈妈知道她吃得很少，所以我说一套，说一套，然后就过去了。但到了中午，她就饿了，没有什么比这些烤苹果更让她喜欢的了，而且它们非常有益健康，因为前几天我借机问了佩里先生；我碰巧在街上遇见了他。我以前并没有任何疑问——我经常听到伍德豪斯先生推荐烤苹果。我相信这是伍德豪斯先生认为这种水果彻底有益健康的唯一方式。不过，我们经常吃苹果饺子。帕蒂做了一个很棒的苹果饺子。好吧，韦斯顿夫人，我希望你赢了，这些女士们也会满足我们的要求。’

Emma would be ‘very happy to wait on Mrs. Bates, &c.,’ and they did at last move out of the shop, with no farther delay from Miss Bates than,
艾玛会“非常高兴地侍候贝茨夫人等”，他们最终搬出了商店，贝茨小姐没有再耽搁，

‘How do you do, Mrs. Ford? I beg your pardon. I did not see you before. I hear you have a charming collection of new ribbons from town. Jane came back delighted yesterday. Thank ye, the gloves do very well—only a little too large about the wrist; but Jane is taking them in.’
“你好吗，福特夫人？”请再说一遍。我之前没见过你。我听说你收藏了一批来自城里的迷人的新丝带。简昨天高兴地回来了。谢谢你们，手套做得很好——只是在手腕上有点太大了；但简正在接纳他们。

‘What was I talking of?’ said she, beginning again when they were all in the street.
“我在说什么？”当他们都在街上时，她又开始说道。

Emma wondered on what, of all the medley, she would fix.
艾玛想知道，在所有的混合曲中，她要解决什么。

‘I declare I cannot recollect what I was talking of.—Oh! my mother’s spectacles. So very obliging of Mr. Frank Churchill! ‘Oh!’ said he, ‘I do think I can fasten the rivet; I like a job of this kind excessively.’—Which you know shewed him to be so very…. Indeed I must say that, much as I had heard of him before and much as I had expected, he very far exceeds any thing…. I do congratulate you, Mrs. Weston, most warmly. He seems every thing the fondest parent could…. ‘Oh!’ said he, ‘I can fasten the rivet. I like a job of that sort excessively.’ I never shall forget his manner. And when I brought out the baked apples from the closet, and hoped our friends would be so very obliging as to take some, ‘Oh!’ said he directly, ‘there is nothing in the way of fruit half so good, and these are the finest-looking home-baked apples I ever saw in my life.’ That, you know, was so very…. And I am sure, by his manner, it was no compliment. Indeed they are very delightful apples, and Mrs. Wallis does them full justice—only we do not have them baked more than twice, and Mr. Woodhouse made us promise to have them done three times— but Miss Woodhouse will be so good as not to mention it. The apples themselves are the very finest sort for baking, beyond a doubt; all from Donwell—some of Mr. Knightley’s most liberal supply. He sends us a sack every year; and certainly there never was such a keeping apple anywhere as one of his trees—I believe there is two of them. My mother says the orchard was always famous in her younger days. But I was really quite shocked the other day— for Mr. Knightley called one morning, and Jane was eating these apples, and we talked about them and said how much she enjoyed them, and he asked whether we were not got to the end of our stock. ‘I am sure you must be,’ said he, ‘and I will send you another supply; for I have a great many more than I can ever use. William Larkins let me keep a larger quantity than usual this year. I will send you some more, before they get good for nothing.’ So I begged he would not—for really as to ours being gone, I could not absolutely say that we had a great many left—it was but half a dozen indeed; but they should be all kept for Jane; and I could not at all bear that he should be sending us more, so liberal as he had been already; and Jane said the same. And when he was gone, she almost quarrelled with me—No, I should not say quarrelled, for we never had a quarrel in our lives; but she was quite distressed that I had owned the apples were so nearly gone; she wished I had made him believe we had a great many left. Oh, said I, my dear, I did say as much as I could. However, the very same evening William Larkins came over with a large basket of apples, the same sort of apples, a bushel at least, and I was very much obliged, and went down and spoke to William Larkins and said every thing, as you may suppose. William Larkins is such an old acquaintance! I am always glad to see him. But, however, I found afterwards from Patty, that William said it was all the apples of that sort his master had; he had brought them all—and now his master had not one left to bake or boil. William did not seem to mind it himself, he was so pleased to think his master had sold so many; for William, you know, thinks more of his master’s profit than any thing; but Mrs. Hodges, he said, was quite displeased at their being all sent away. She could not bear that her master should not be able to have another apple-tart this spring. He told Patty this, but bid her not mind it, and be sure not to say any thing to us about it, for Mrs. Hodges would be cross sometimes, and as long as so many sacks were sold, it did not signify who ate the remainder. And so Patty told me, and I was excessively shocked indeed! I would not have Mr. Knightley know any thing about it for the world! He would be so very…. I wanted to keep it from Jane’s knowledge; but, unluckily, I had mentioned it before I was aware.’
“我声明我不记得我在说什么了。——哦！我妈妈的眼镜。弗兰克·丘吉尔先生非常乐于助人！ “哦！”他说，“我想我确实可以把铆钉钉紧；我非常喜欢这种工作。’——你知道这表明他非常……。事实上，我必须说，正如我以前听说过他并且正如我所期望的那样，他远远超出了任何事情……。我衷心祝贺你，韦斯顿夫人。他似乎拥有最慈爱的父母所能拥有的一切…… “哦！”他说，“我可以把铆钉钉紧。”我非常喜欢这样的工作。”我永远不会忘记他的态度。当我从壁橱里拿出烤苹果，并希望我们的朋友们能非常热心地拿一些时，“哦！”他直接说道，“没有什么比水果更好的了，这些都是这是我一生中见过的最漂亮的自制苹果。”你知道，那真是太……我确信，从他的态度来看，这并不是恭维。事实上，它们是非常美味的苹果，沃利斯太太完全公正地对待它们——只是我们不会把它们烤两次以上，伍德豪斯先生让我们答应把它们烤三次——但伍德豪斯小姐会做得很好。提一下。毫无疑问，苹果本身就是最适合烘焙的品种。全部来自唐威尔——奈特利先生最慷慨的供应之一。他每年都会给我们发一个麻袋；当然，在任何地方都没有像他的一棵树那样保存得很好的苹果——我相信有两棵。我母亲说，在她年轻的时候，这个果园就一直很有名。但有一天我真的很震惊——有一天早上奈特利先生打电话来，简正在吃这些苹果，我们谈论它们并说她有多喜欢它们，他问我们是否还没有结束我们的库存。 “我相信你一定是这样，”他说，“我会再给你寄一些物资；因为我拥有的东西比我能用的多得多。威廉·拉金斯今年让我保留的数量比平时多。我会再寄给你一些，在它们变得毫无用处之前。”所以我请求他不要——因为说实话，我们的已经消失了，我不能绝对地说我们还剩下很多——确实只有六打。 ;但它们都应该留给简；我根本无法忍受他竟然再派更多的人来，尽管他已经如此慷慨了。简也这么说。当他走后，她差点和我吵架——不，我不应该说吵架，因为我们一生中从未吵过架；但她很伤心，因为我发现苹果几乎没有了。她希望我让他相信我们还剩下很多人。哦，我说，亲爱的，我已经尽力说了。然而，就在同一天晚上，威廉·拉金斯带着一大篮子苹果过来，同样的苹果，至少一蒲式耳，我非常感激，然后下去和威廉·拉金斯说话，说了一切，就像你一样可能会认为。威廉·拉金斯真是老熟人了！我总是很高兴见到他。但是，后来我从帕蒂那里得知，威廉说这都是他主人拥有的那种苹果；他把它们全都带来了——现在他的主人已经没有一个可以烘烤或煮了。威廉本人似乎并不介意，他很高兴他的主人卖了这么多；你知道，威廉最关心的是他主人的利益。但他说，霍奇斯夫人对他们全部被送走感到非常不满。她不忍心主人今年春天不能再吃到苹果馅饼了。 他告诉帕蒂这件事，但请她不要介意，并且一定不要对我们说任何关于这件事的事情，因为霍奇斯太太有时会生气，只要卖了这么多麻袋，就并不意味着谁吃了。其余的。帕蒂这么告诉我，我确实感到非常震惊！我不会让奈特利先生知道任何关于这件事的事情！他会非常……我不想让简知道这件事；但不幸的是，我在意识到之前就提到了这一点。’

Miss Bates had just done as Patty opened the door; and her visitors walked upstairs without having any regular narration to attend to, pursued only by the sounds of her desultory good-will.
贝茨小姐刚做完，帕蒂就打开了门。她的访客走上楼，没有任何常规的叙述可听，只被她断断续续的善意的声音所追随。

‘Pray take care, Mrs. Weston, there is a step at the turning. Pray take care, Miss Woodhouse, ours is rather a dark staircase— rather darker and narrower than one could wish. Miss Smith, pray take care. Miss Woodhouse, I am quite concerned, I am sure you hit your foot. Miss Smith, the step at the turning.’
“请小心，韦斯顿夫人，转弯处有一个台阶。请保重，伍德豪斯小姐，我们的楼梯相当黑暗——比人们希望的更暗、更窄。史密斯小姐，请保重。伍德豪斯小姐，我很担心，我确信你摔伤了脚。史密斯小姐，转弯处的台阶。

Chapter X
第十章

The appearance of the little sitting-room as they entered, was tranquillity itself; Mrs. Bates, deprived of her usual employment, slumbering on one side of the fire, Frank Churchill, at a table near her, most deedily occupied about her spectacles, and Jane Fairfax, standing with her back to them, intent on her pianoforte.
当他们走进这个小客厅时，看上去很安静。贝茨夫人失去了平常的工作，睡在炉火的一侧，弗兰克·丘吉尔坐在她旁边的一张桌子旁，专心致志地盯着她的眼镜，而简·费尔法克斯则背对着他们站着，专心致志地弹钢琴。

Busy as he was, however, the young man was yet able to shew a most happy countenance on seeing Emma again.
然而，尽管很忙，年轻人再次见到艾玛时还是露出了最高兴的表情。

‘This is a pleasure,’ said he, in rather a low voice, ‘coming at least ten minutes earlier than I had calculated. You find me trying to be useful; tell me if you think I shall succeed.’
“很高兴，”他低声说道，“比我预计的至少早了十分钟。”你发现我试图成为有用的人；告诉我你是否认为我会成功。

‘What!’ said Mrs. Weston, ‘have not you finished it yet? you would not earn a very good livelihood as a working silversmith at this rate.’
“什么！”韦斯顿夫人说，“你还没写完吗？按照这个速度，作为一名银匠，你不会获得很好的生计。”

‘I have not been working uninterruptedly,’ he replied, ‘I have been assisting Miss Fairfax in trying to make her instrument stand steadily, it was not quite firm; an unevenness in the floor, I believe. You see we have been wedging one leg with paper. This was very kind of you to be persuaded to come. I was almost afraid you would be hurrying home.’
“我一直在不间断地工作，”他回答道，“我一直在协助费尔法克斯小姐努力让她的乐器站稳，但它不太牢固；我相信地板不平坦。你看我们一直在用纸楔住一条腿。你被说服来真是太好了。我几乎担心你会急着回家。

He contrived that she should be seated by him; and was sufficiently employed in looking out the best baked apple for her, and trying to make her help or advise him in his work, till Jane Fairfax was quite ready to sit down to the pianoforte again. That she was not immediately ready, Emma did suspect to arise from the state of her nerves; she had not yet possessed the instrument long enough to touch it without emotion; she must reason herself into the power of performance; and Emma could not but pity such feelings, whatever their origin, and could not but resolve never to expose them to her neighbour again.
他设法让她坐在他旁边。他全心全意地为她寻找最好的烤苹果，并试图让她在工作中为他提供帮助或建议，直到简·费尔法克斯准备好再次坐下来弹钢琴。艾玛确实怀疑自己还没有立即准备好，这是因为她的神经状况所致。她拥有这件乐器的时间还不够长，无法不带感情地触摸它。她必须说服自己相信表演的力量；爱玛不得不怜悯这种感觉，无论其根源是什么，并且不得不决定不再将它们暴露给她的邻居。

At last Jane began, and though the first bars were feebly given, the powers of the instrument were gradually done full justice to. Mrs. Weston had been delighted before, and was delighted again; Emma joined her in all her praise; and the pianoforte, with every proper discrimination, was pronounced to be altogether of the highest promise.
最后，简开始了，虽然最初的几小节是微弱的，但乐器的力量逐渐得到了充分的体现。韦斯顿夫人以前很高兴，现在又很高兴。艾玛也和她一起称赞她。而钢琴，经过各种适当的鉴别，被认为是最有前途的。

‘Whoever Colonel Campbell might employ,’ said Frank Churchill, with a smile at Emma, ‘the person has not chosen ill. I heard a good deal of Colonel Campbell’s taste at Weymouth; and the softness of the upper notes I am sure is exactly what he and all that party would particularly prize. I dare say, Miss Fairfax, that he either gave his friend very minute directions, or wrote to Broadwood himself. Do not you think so?’
“无论坎贝尔上校雇用谁，”弗兰克·丘吉尔对艾玛微笑着说道，“这个人都没有选择错误。我在韦茅斯听过很多坎贝尔上校的品味。我相信，柔和的上调正是他和所有的人都会特别欣赏的。费尔法克斯小姐，我敢说，他要么给了他的朋友非常详细的指示，要么亲自写信给布罗德伍德。你不这么认为吗？'

Jane did not look round. She was not obliged to hear. Mrs. Weston had been speaking to her at the same moment.
简没有回头看。她没有义务听。与此同时，韦斯顿夫人也在对她说话。

‘It is not fair,’ said Emma, in a whisper; ‘mine was a random guess. Do not distress her.’
“这不公平，”艾玛低声说道。 “我的猜测是随机的。不要让她难过。

He shook his head with a smile, and looked as if he had very little doubt and very little mercy. Soon afterwards he began again,
他微笑着摇摇头，看上去没有多少怀疑，也没有多少怜悯。不久之后他又开始了，

‘How much your friends in Ireland must be enjoying your pleasure on this occasion, Miss Fairfax. I dare say they often think of you, and wonder which will be the day, the precise day of the instrument’s coming to hand. Do you imagine Colonel Campbell knows the business to be going forward just at this time?—Do you imagine it to be the consequence of an immediate commission from him, or that he may have sent only a general direction, an order indefinite as to time, to depend upon contingencies and conveniences?’
“费尔法克斯小姐，你在爱尔兰的朋友们一定非常享受你这次的快乐。”我敢说他们经常想起你，想知道哪一天，该仪器到手的确切日期。你认为坎贝尔上校此时就知道事情正在进展吗？——你认为这是他立即委托的结果，还是他可能只发出了一个总体指示，一个不确定时间的命令，依靠偶然性和便利性？

He paused. She could not but hear; she could not avoid answering,
他停了下来。她只能听见；她无法回避地回答，

‘Till I have a letter from Colonel Campbell,’ said she, in a voice of forced calmness, ‘I can imagine nothing with any confidence. It must be all conjecture.’
“直到我收到坎贝尔上校的来信，”她用一种强迫平静的声音说道，“我无法自信地想象任何事情。这肯定都是猜测。

‘Conjecture—aye, sometimes one conjectures right, and sometimes one conjectures wrong. I wish I could conjecture how soon I shall make this rivet quite firm. What nonsense one talks, Miss Woodhouse, when hard at work, if one talks at all;—your real workmen, I suppose, hold their tongues; but we gentlemen labourers if we get hold of a word—Miss Fairfax said something about conjecturing. There, it is done. I have the pleasure, madam, (to Mrs. Bates,) of restoring your spectacles, healed for the present.’
‘猜想——是啊，有时猜想对，有时猜想错。我希望我能推测出多久才能使这颗铆钉变得相当牢固。伍德豪斯小姐，如果有人在努力工作时说话，那真是胡说八道；我想，你们真正的工人是守口如瓶的；但我们先生们，如果我们听到一个词的话——费尔法克斯小姐说了一些关于推测的话。到这里，事情就完成了。女士，我很高兴（对贝茨夫人）恢复您目前已经痊愈的眼镜。

He was very warmly thanked both by mother and daughter; to escape a little from the latter, he went to the pianoforte, and begged Miss Fairfax, who was still sitting at it, to play something more.
母亲和女儿都非常热烈地感谢他；为了摆脱后者，他走到钢琴前，请求仍在坐在钢琴前的费尔法克斯小姐再弹奏一些东西。

‘If you are very kind,’ said he, ‘it will be one of the waltzes we danced last night;—let me live them over again. You did not enjoy them as I did; you appeared tired the whole time. I believe you were glad we danced no longer; but I would have given worlds— all the worlds one ever has to give—for another half-hour.’
“如果你好心的话，”他说，“这将是我们昨晚跳的华尔兹之一；——让我再演一遍。”你不像我那样喜欢它们；你自始至终都显得很疲惫。我相信你很高兴我们不再跳舞；但我愿意再付出半个小时，付出所有的世界——人们必须付出的所有世界。

She played.
她演奏。

‘What felicity it is to hear a tune again which has made one happy!— If I mistake not that was danced at Weymouth.’
“再次听到一首令人快乐的曲子是多么幸福啊！——如果我没记错的话，那是在韦茅斯跳舞的。”

She looked up at him for a moment, coloured deeply, and played something else. He took some music from a chair near the pianoforte, and turning to Emma, said,
她抬头看了他一会儿，脸色深沉，然后弹起了别的东西。他从钢琴旁边的椅子上拿了一些乐谱，然后转向艾玛说：

‘Here is something quite new to me. Do you know it?—Cramer.— And here are a new set of Irish melodies. That, from such a quarter, one might expect. This was all sent with the instrument. Very thoughtful of Colonel Campbell, was not it?—He knew Miss Fairfax could have no music here. I honour that part of the attention particularly; it shews it to have been so thoroughly from the heart. Nothing hastily done; nothing incomplete. True affection only could have prompted it.’
“这对我来说是很新鲜的事情。你知道吗？——克莱默。——这是一组新的爱尔兰旋律。从这样一个季度来看，人们可能会预料到这一点。这些都是随仪器一起发送的。坎贝尔上校考虑得很周到，不是吗？——他知道费尔法克斯小姐这里不能有音乐。我特别尊重这部分关注；这表明它是那么彻底地发自内心。没有什么事情是仓促完成的；没有什么不完整的。只有真正的感情才能促使它发生。

Emma wished he would be less pointed, yet could not help being amused; and when on glancing her eye towards Jane Fairfax she caught the remains of a smile, when she saw that with all the deep blush of consciousness, there had been a smile of secret delight, she had less scruple in the amusement, and much less compunction with respect to her.—This amiable, upright, perfect Jane Fairfax was apparently cherishing very reprehensible feelings.
艾玛希望他别那么尖刻，但还是忍不住觉得好笑。当她的眼睛扫向简·费尔法克斯时，她看到了残留的微笑，当她看到意识的所有深深的红晕中，有一个秘密喜悦的微笑时，她在娱乐中不再有顾忌，也不再感到内疚——这个和蔼可亲、正直、完美的简·费尔法克斯显然怀有非常应受谴责的感情。

He brought all the music to her, and they looked it over together.— Emma took the opportunity of whispering,
他把所有的音乐都给了她，他们一起看了一下。——艾玛趁机低声说道：

‘You speak too plain. She must understand you.’
‘你说得太直白了。她一定理解你。

‘I hope she does. I would have her understand me. I am not in the least ashamed of my meaning.’
“我希望她能这么做。我想让她理解我。我对我的意思一点也不感到羞耻。

‘But really, I am half ashamed, and wish I had never taken up the idea.’
“但说实话，我有点羞愧，希望自己从未接受过这个想法。”

‘I am very glad you did, and that you communicated it to me. I have now a key to all her odd looks and ways. Leave shame to her. If she does wrong, she ought to feel it.’
“我很高兴你这么做了，并且把它传达给了我。我现在掌握了了解她所有奇怪的外表和行为方式的钥匙。给她留下耻辱。如果她做错了，她应该感受到。

‘She is not entirely without it, I think.’
“我认为她并非完全没有这种能力。”

‘I do not see much sign of it. She is playing Robin Adair at this moment—his favourite.’
“我没有看到太多迹象。她此时正在扮演罗宾·阿代尔——他最喜欢的角色。

Shortly afterwards Miss Bates, passing near the window, descried Mr. Knightley on horse-back not far off.
不久之后，贝茨小姐经过窗边，看见奈特利先生骑在不远处的马背上。

‘Mr. Knightley I declare!—I must speak to him if possible, just to thank him. I will not open the window here; it would give you all cold; but I can go into my mother’s room you know. I dare say he will come in when he knows who is here. Quite delightful to have you all meet so!—Our little room so honoured!’
'先生。我宣布奈特利！——如果可能的话，我必须和他说话，只是为了感谢他。我不会打开这里的窗户；它会让你浑身发冷；但我可以进入我母亲的房间，你知道。我敢说当他知道谁在这里时他就会进来。很高兴见到你们！——我们的小房间非常荣幸！

She was in the adjoining chamber while she still spoke, and opening the casement there, immediately called Mr. Knightley’s attention, and every syllable of their conversation was as distinctly heard by the others, as if it had passed within the same apartment.
当她还在说话时，她就在隔壁的房间里，打开那里的窗子，立即引起了奈特利先生的注意，他们谈话的每一个音节都被其他人清晰地听到，就好像它们是在同一间公寓里经过的一样。

‘How d’ ye do?—how d’ye do?—Very well, I thank you. So obliged to you for the carriage last night. We were just in time; my mother just ready for us. Pray come in; do come in. You will find some friends here.’
“你好吗？——你好吗？——很好，我谢谢你。非常感谢你昨晚的马车。我们来得正是时候；我妈妈刚刚为我们准备好了。请进来；进来吧。你会在这里找到一些朋友。”

So began Miss Bates; and Mr. Knightley seemed determined to be heard in his turn, for most resolutely and commandingly did he say,
贝茨小姐就这样开始了。奈特利先生似乎下定决心要轮到他发言，因为他极其坚决、命令性地说道：

‘How is your niece, Miss Bates?—I want to inquire after you all, but particularly your niece. How is Miss Fairfax?—I hope she caught no cold last night. How is she to-day? Tell me how Miss Fairfax is.’
“你的侄女怎么样，贝茨小姐？——我想询问你们所有人，特别是你的侄女。费尔法克斯小姐怎么样？——我希望她昨晚没有感冒。她今天怎么样？告诉我费尔法克斯小姐怎么样。”

And Miss Bates was obliged to give a direct answer before he would hear her in any thing else. The listeners were amused; and Mrs. Weston gave Emma a look of particular meaning. But Emma still shook her head in steady scepticism.
贝茨小姐必须先直接回答，然后他才能听到她说任何其他话。听众们都被逗乐了。韦斯顿夫人用一种特别意味深长的眼神看了艾玛一眼。但艾玛仍然持怀疑态度，摇摇头。

‘So obliged to you!—so very much obliged to you for the carriage,’ resumed Miss Bates.
“非常感谢你！非常感谢你提供马车，”贝茨小姐继续说道。

He cut her short with,
他打断了她的话：

‘I am going to Kingston. Can I do anything for you?’
“我要去金斯顿。我能为你做点什么吗？

‘Oh! dear, Kingston—are you?—Mrs. Cole was saying the other day she wanted something from Kingston.’
'哦！亲爱的金斯顿，你是吗？科尔有一天说她想从金斯顿那里得到一些东西。

‘Mrs. Cole has servants to send. Can I do any thing for you?’
'太太。科尔有仆人要派。我能为你做点什么吗？

‘No, I thank you. But do come in. Who do you think is here?— Miss Woodhouse and Miss Smith; so kind as to call to hear the new pianoforte. Do put up your horse at the Crown, and come in.’
‘不，我谢谢你。但是请进来。你认为谁在这里？——伍德豪斯小姐和史密斯小姐；好心打电话来听新钢琴。请把你的马停在皇冠上，然后进来。

‘Well,’ said he, in a deliberating manner, ‘for five minutes, perhaps.’
“好吧，”他若有所思地说，“也许五分钟吧。”

‘And here is Mrs. Weston and Mr. Frank Churchill too!—Quite delightful; so many friends!’
“韦斯顿夫人和弗兰克·丘吉尔先生也在这里！——非常令人愉快；这么多朋友！’

‘No, not now, I thank you. I could not stay two minutes. I must get on to Kingston as fast as I can.’
“不，不是现在，我谢谢你。我不能停留两分钟。我必须尽快赶到金斯顿。

‘Oh! do come in. They will be so very happy to see you.’
'哦！请进来吧。他们会很高兴见到你的。”

‘No, no; your room is full enough. I will call another day, and hear the pianoforte.’
'不，不;你的房间已经足够满了。我改天再打电话，听听钢琴演奏。

‘Well, I am so sorry!—Oh! Mr. Knightley, what a delightful party last night; how extremely pleasant.—Did you ever see such dancing?— Was not it delightful?—Miss Woodhouse and Mr. Frank Churchill; I never saw any thing equal to it.’
“嗯，我很抱歉！——哦！奈特利先生，昨晚的聚会真是太愉快了；多么令人愉快。——你见过这样的舞蹈吗？——这不是令人愉快吗？——伍德豪斯小姐和弗兰克·丘吉尔先生；我从未见过任何与之相媲美的东西。

‘Oh! very delightful indeed; I can say nothing less, for I suppose Miss Woodhouse and Mr. Frank Churchill are hearing every thing that passes. And (raising his voice still more) I do not see why Miss Fairfax should not be mentioned too. I think Miss Fairfax dances very well; and Mrs. Weston is the very best country-dance player, without exception, in England. Now, if your friends have any gratitude, they will say something pretty loud about you and me in return; but I cannot stay to hear it.’
'哦！确实非常令人愉快；我只能说，因为我想伍德豪斯小姐和弗兰克·丘吉尔先生正在听到发生的一切。而且（更加提高了声音）我不明白为什么费尔法克斯小姐也不应该被提及。我认为费尔法克斯小姐跳舞跳得很好；韦斯顿夫人无一例外都是英格兰最好的乡村舞演员。现在，如果你的朋友有任何感激之情，他们会大声地谈论你和我作为回报；但我不能留下来听。

‘Oh! Mr. Knightley, one moment more; something of consequence— so shocked!—Jane and I are both so shocked about the apples!’
'哦！奈特利先生，再等一下；一些重要的事情——太震惊了！——简和我都对苹果感到震惊！

‘What is the matter now?’
“现在怎么了？”

‘To think of your sending us all your store apples. You said you had a great many, and now you have not one left. We really are so shocked! Mrs. Hodges may well be angry. William Larkins mentioned it here. You should not have done it, indeed you should not. Ah! he is off. He never can bear to be thanked. But I thought he would have staid now, and it would have been a pity not to have mentioned…. Well, (returning to the room,) I have not been able to succeed. Mr. Knightley cannot stop. He is going to Kingston. He asked me if he could do any thing….’
“想想你把商店里所有的苹果都寄给我们了。你说你有很多，现在你一个也没有了。我们实在是太震惊了！霍奇斯夫人可能很生气。威廉·拉金斯在这里提到过。你不应该这样做，确实不应该。啊!他下班了。他从来不忍心被人感谢。但我想他现在会保持沉默，不提就可惜了……好吧，（回到房间）我没能成功。奈特利先生停不下来。他要去金斯敦。他问我是否可以做点什么……”

‘Yes,’ said Jane, ‘we heard his kind offers, we heard every thing.’
“是的，”简说，“我们听到了他的善意提议，我们听到了一切。”

‘Oh! yes, my dear, I dare say you might, because you know, the door was open, and the window was open, and Mr. Knightley spoke loud. You must have heard every thing to be sure. ‘Can I do any thing for you at Kingston?’ said he; so I just mentioned…. Oh! Miss Woodhouse, must you be going?—You seem but just come—so very obliging of you.’
'哦！是的，亲爱的，我敢说你可能会，因为你知道，门开着，窗户也开着，奈特利先生大声说话。你一定已经听到了一切才能确定。 “我可以在金斯顿为你做点什么吗？”他说道。所以我刚才提到……哦！伍德豪斯小姐，您一定要走吗？——您看起来不过是刚来——您太客气了。

Emma found it really time to be at home; the visit had already lasted long; and on examining watches, so much of the morning was perceived to be gone, that Mrs. Weston and her companion taking leave also, could allow themselves only to walk with the two young ladies to Hartfield gates, before they set off for Randalls.
艾玛发现现在确实是该回家的时候了。这次访问已经持续了很长时间；从手表上看，早上的时间已经过去了，韦斯顿夫人和她的同伴也告辞了，只能和两位年轻女士一起走到哈特菲尔德大门，然后出发前往兰德尔斯。

Chapter XI
第十一章

It may be possible to do without dancing entirely. Instances have been known of young people passing many, many months successively, without being at any ball of any description, and no material injury accrue either to body or mind;—but when a beginning is made— when the felicities of rapid motion have once been, though slightly, felt—it must be a very heavy set that does not ask for more.
完全不跳舞也许是可能的。众所周知，年轻人连续度过了许多、许多个月，没有参加任何类型的舞会，身体或精神都没有受到任何物质伤害；但当开始时，当快速运动的幸福曾经有过时尽管略有感觉，但它一定是一个非常沉重的集合，不需要更多。

Frank Churchill had danced once at Highbury, and longed to dance again; and the last half-hour of an evening which Mr. Woodhouse was persuaded to spend with his daughter at Randalls, was passed by the two young people in schemes on the subject. Frank’s was the first idea; and his the greatest zeal in pursuing it; for the lady was the best judge of the difficulties, and the most solicitous for accommodation and appearance. But still she had inclination enough for shewing people again how delightfully Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse danced—for doing that in which she need not blush to compare herself with Jane Fairfax—and even for simple dancing itself, without any of the wicked aids of vanity—to assist him first in pacing out the room they were in to see what it could be made to hold—and then in taking the dimensions of the other parlour, in the hope of discovering, in spite of all that Mr. Weston could say of their exactly equal size, that it was a little the largest.
弗兰克·丘吉尔曾在海布里跳舞过一次，并且渴望再次跳舞。伍德豪斯先生被说服去兰德尔斯和他的女儿一起度过了一个晚上的最后半个小时，两个年轻人就这个问题商量着度过。弗兰克的第一个想法是。他以最大的热情去追求它；因为这位女士最能判断困难，而且最关心住宿和外表。但她仍然有足够的意愿再次向人们展示弗兰克·丘吉尔先生和伍德豪斯小姐的舞蹈是多么令人愉悦——因为她不需要因为与简·费尔法克斯比较而脸红——甚至只是简单的舞蹈本身，没有任何邪恶的帮助出于虚荣心——先帮助他在他们所在的房间里踱步，看看里面能容纳什么——然后测量另一间客厅的尺寸，希望能找到答案，尽管韦斯顿先生可以说，它们的大小完全相同，但它是最大的一点。

His first proposition and request, that the dance begun at Mr. Cole’s should be finished there—that the same party should be collected, and the same musician engaged, met with the readiest acquiescence. Mr. Weston entered into the idea with thorough enjoyment, and Mrs. Weston most willingly undertook to play as long as they could wish to dance; and the interesting employment had followed, of reckoning up exactly who there would be, and portioning out the indispensable division of space to every couple.
他的第一个提议和要求是，在科尔先生家开始的舞会应该在那里结束——同样的聚会应该聚集起来，同样的音乐家也应聘用，得到了最乐意的默许。韦斯顿先生非常高兴地提出了这个想法，韦斯顿夫人也很乐意地承诺，只要他们愿意跳舞，就可以玩下去。有趣的工作随之而来，准确地计算出将会有哪些人，并将必不可少的空间分配给每对夫妇。

‘You and Miss Smith, and Miss Fairfax, will be three, and the two Miss Coxes five,’ had been repeated many times over. ‘And there will be the two Gilberts, young Cox, my father, and myself, besides Mr. Knightley. Yes, that will be quite enough for pleasure. You and Miss Smith, and Miss Fairfax, will be three, and the two Miss Coxes five; and for five couple there will be plenty of room.’
“你和史密斯小姐，还有费尔法克斯小姐三岁，两位考克斯小姐五岁，”已经被重复了很多次。 “除了奈特利先生之外，还有吉尔伯特夫妇、年轻的考克斯、我的父亲和我自己。”是的，这已经足够让人高兴了。你和史密斯小姐以及费尔法克斯小姐三岁，两位考克斯小姐五岁；对于五对夫妇来说，这里有足够的空间。

But soon it came to be on one side,
但很快就到了一侧，

‘But will there be good room for five couple?—I really do not think there will.’
“但是有足够的空间容纳五对夫妇吗？——我真的不认为会有。”

On another,
另外一个，

‘And after all, five couple are not enough to make it worth while to stand up. Five couple are nothing, when one thinks seriously about it. It will not do to invite five couple. It can be allowable only as the thought of the moment.’
“毕竟，五对夫妇还不足以值得站起来。”认真想一想，五对情侣根本算不了什么。邀请五对夫妇是不行的。只有作为一时的想法才可以被允许。

Somebody said that Miss Gilbert was expected at her brother’s, and must be invited with the rest. Somebody else believed Mrs. Gilbert would have danced the other evening, if she had been asked. A word was put in for a second young Cox; and at last, Mr. Weston naming one family of cousins who must be included, and another of very old acquaintance who could not be left out, it became a certainty that the five couple would be at least ten, and a very interesting speculation in what possible manner they could be disposed of.
有人说吉尔伯特小姐会去她哥哥家，必须和其他人一起受到邀请。其他人相信，如果有人邀请吉尔伯特夫人那天晚上跳舞的话。有人为第二个年轻的考克斯添加了一个词。最后，韦斯顿先生点名了一个必须包括在内的表兄弟家庭，以及一个不能被排除在外的老熟人家庭，可以肯定的是，这五对夫妇至少有十岁，这是一个非常有趣的猜测可以采取什么可能的方式处置它们。

The doors of the two rooms were just opposite each other. ‘Might not they use both rooms, and dance across the passage?’ It seemed the best scheme; and yet it was not so good but that many of them wanted a better. Emma said it would be awkward; Mrs. Weston was in distress about the supper; and Mr. Woodhouse opposed it earnestly, on the score of health. It made him so very unhappy, indeed, that it could not be persevered in.
两个房间的门正好相对。 “他们难道不能同时使用两个房间，并在过道上跳舞吗？”这似乎是最好的方案；然而，它并不是那么好，但他们中的许多人都希望有一个更好的。艾玛说这会很尴尬；韦斯顿太太对晚餐感到很苦恼。伍德豪斯先生出于健康考虑，坚决反对。这确实让他非常不高兴，以至于无法坚持下去。

‘Oh! no,’ said he; ‘it would be the extreme of imprudence. I could not bear it for Emma!—Emma is not strong. She would catch a dreadful cold. So would poor little Harriet. So you would all. Mrs. Weston, you would be quite laid up; do not let them talk of such a wild thing. Pray do not let them talk of it. That young man (speaking lower) is very thoughtless. Do not tell his father, but that young man is not quite the thing. He has been opening the doors very often this evening, and keeping them open very inconsiderately. He does not think of the draught. I do not mean to set you against him, but indeed he is not quite the thing!’
'哦！不，”他说。 “这将是极其轻率的行为。我为艾玛无法忍受！——艾玛并不坚强。她会得一场可怕的感冒。可怜的小哈丽特也会如此。所以你们都会的。韦斯顿太太，你会很躺着的；不要让他们谈论这种疯狂的事情。祈祷不要让他们谈论这件事。那个年轻人（低声说话）很没有思想。别告诉他父亲，但那个年轻人不太对劲。今晚他开门的次数很多，而且开门的时候也很不体贴。他没有想到气流。我并不是有意让你反对他，但他确实不是那样的人！

Mrs. Weston was sorry for such a charge. She knew the importance of it, and said every thing in her power to do it away. Every door was now closed, the passage plan given up, and the first scheme of dancing only in the room they were in resorted to again; and with such good-will on Frank Churchill’s part, that the space which a quarter of an hour before had been deemed barely sufficient for five couple, was now endeavoured to be made out quite enough for ten.
韦斯顿夫人对这样的指控感到抱歉。她知道这件事的重要性，并竭尽全力想要消除它。现在，每扇门都关上了，通道计划也被放弃，只在他们所在的房间里跳舞的第一个计划再次被采用。由于弗兰克·丘吉尔的善意，一刻钟前还被认为仅够五对夫妇使用的空间，现在已尽力让空间足以容纳十对夫妇。

‘We were too magnificent,’ said he. ‘We allowed unnecessary room. Ten couple may stand here very well.’
“我们太伟大了，”他说。 “我们留出了不必要的空间。十对夫妇可以很好地站在这里。

Emma demurred. ‘It would be a crowd—a sad crowd; and what could be worse than dancing without space to turn in?’
艾玛表示反对。 “那将是一群人——一群悲伤的人；还有什么比没有空间转身跳舞更糟糕的呢？

‘Very true,’ he gravely replied; ‘it was very bad.’ But still he went on measuring, and still he ended with,
“非常正确，”他严肃地回答道。 “这非常糟糕。”但他仍然继续测量，最后他仍然说，

‘I think there will be very tolerable room for ten couple.’
“我认为对于十对夫妇来说，这里的空间还算可以接受。”

‘No, no,’ said she, ‘you are quite unreasonable. It would be dreadful to be standing so close! Nothing can be farther from pleasure than to be dancing in a crowd—and a crowd in a little room!’
“不，不，”她说，“你太不讲道理了。”如果站得这么近，那就太可怕了！没有什么比在人群中跳舞更远离快乐的了——而且是在一个小房间里跳舞！

‘There is no denying it,’ he replied. ‘I agree with you exactly. A crowd in a little room—Miss Woodhouse, you have the art of giving pictures in a few words. Exquisite, quite exquisite!—Still, however, having proceeded so far, one is unwilling to give the matter up. It would be a disappointment to my father—and altogether—I do not know that—I am rather of opinion that ten couple might stand here very well.’
“无可否认，”他回答道。 “我完全同意你的观点。小房间里的一群人——伍德豪斯小姐，你有用几句话描述图片的艺术。精妙，相当精妙！——然而，事已至此，却仍不肯罢休。这会让我父亲感到失望——总的来说——我不知道——我认为十对夫妇可能会很好地站在这里。

Emma perceived that the nature of his gallantry was a little self-willed, and that he would rather oppose than lose the pleasure of dancing with her; but she took the compliment, and forgave the rest. Had she intended ever to marry him, it might have been worth while to pause and consider, and try to understand the value of his preference, and the character of his temper; but for all the purposes of their acquaintance, he was quite amiable enough.
爱玛察觉到他的殷勤本质上有点任性，他宁愿反对也不愿失去与她跳舞的乐趣。但她接受了赞美，并原谅了其余的事情。如果她打算嫁给他，也许值得停下来考虑一下，并尝试了解他的喜好的价值和他的脾气特征；但就他们认识的所有目的而言，他还是相当和蔼可亲的。

Before the middle of the next day, he was at Hartfield; and he entered the room with such an agreeable smile as certified the continuance of the scheme. It soon appeared that he came to announce an improvement.
第二天中午之前，他就到达了哈特菲尔德。他带着令人愉快的微笑走进房间，这证明了这个计划的继续。很快，他似乎就是来宣布改进的。

‘Well, Miss Woodhouse,’ he almost immediately began, ‘your inclination for dancing has not been quite frightened away, I hope, by the terrors of my father’s little rooms. I bring a new proposal on the subject:—a thought of my father’s, which waits only your approbation to be acted upon. May I hope for the honour of your hand for the two first dances of this little projected ball, to be given, not at Randalls, but at the Crown Inn?’
“好吧，伍德豪斯小姐，”他几乎立刻就开始说道，“我希望，你对跳舞的兴趣并没有因为我父亲小房间里的恐怖而完全消失。我就这个问题提出了一个新的建议：——我父亲的一个想法，只等待你的批准就可以采取行动。我希望您能荣幸地为这个小型投影舞会的两支第一支舞，不是在兰德尔斯，而是在皇冠旅馆举行？

‘The Crown!’
'皇冠！'

‘Yes; if you and Mr. Woodhouse see no objection, and I trust you cannot, my father hopes his friends will be so kind as to visit him there. Better accommodations, he can promise them, and not a less grateful welcome than at Randalls. It is his own idea. Mrs. Weston sees no objection to it, provided you are satisfied. This is what we all feel. Oh! you were perfectly right! Ten couple, in either of the Randalls rooms, would have been insufferable!—Dreadful!—I felt how right you were the whole time, but was too anxious for securing any thing to like to yield. Is not it a good exchange?—You consent— I hope you consent?’
'是的;如果你和伍德豪斯先生不反对的话（我相信你们不会反对），我父亲希望他的朋友们能好心去那里拜访他。他可以向他们保证，会有更好的住宿条件，而且受到的欢迎也不亚于兰德尔斯。这是他自己的想法。韦斯顿夫人认为只要你满意就不会反对。这是我们大家的感受。哦！你说得完全正确！十对夫妇，在兰德尔的任何一个房间里，都会让人难以忍受！——太可怕了！——我一直觉得你是多么正确，但太急于获得任何东西，不愿意屈服。这不是一个很好的交换吗？——你同意——我希望你同意？

‘It appears to me a plan that nobody can object to, if Mr. and Mrs. Weston do not. I think it admirable; and, as far as I can answer for myself, shall be most happy—It seems the only improvement that could be. Papa, do you not think it an excellent improvement?’
“在我看来，如果韦斯顿先生和夫人不反对的话，这个计划是没有人可以反对的。”我认为这是令人钦佩的；就我自己而言，我会感到非常高兴——这似乎是唯一可能的改进。爸爸，你不觉得这是一个很大的进步吗？

She was obliged to repeat and explain it, before it was fully comprehended; and then, being quite new, farther representations were necessary to make it acceptable.
在完全理解之前，她不得不重复和解释它。然后，由于它是相当新的，需要进一步的陈述才能使其被接受。

‘No; he thought it very far from an improvement—a very bad plan— much worse than the other. A room at an inn was always damp and dangerous; never properly aired, or fit to be inhabited. If they must dance, they had better dance at Randalls. He had never been in the room at the Crown in his life—did not know the people who kept it by sight.—Oh! no—a very bad plan. They would catch worse colds at the Crown than anywhere.’
'不;他认为这远非进步——一个非常糟糕的计划——比另一个更糟糕。旅馆的房间总是潮湿且危险；从未适当通风，也不适合居住。如果他们必须跳舞，他们最好在兰德尔斯跳舞。他一生中从未进过皇冠的房间——不认识看管它的人。——哦！不——这是一个非常糟糕的计划。他们在皇家会比在任何地方都得更严重的感冒。

‘I was going to observe, sir,’ said Frank Churchill, ‘that one of the great recommendations of this change would be the very little danger of any body’s catching cold— so much less danger at the Crown than at Randalls! Mr. Perry might have reason to regret the alteration, but nobody else could.’
“我打算观察，先生，”弗兰克·丘吉尔说，“这一改变的一个伟大建议就是任何人感冒的危险都非常小——在皇家比在兰德尔斯要少得多！”佩里先生可能有理由对这一改变感到遗憾，但其他人却没有理由后悔。

‘Sir,’ said Mr. Woodhouse, rather warmly, ‘you are very much mistaken if you suppose Mr. Perry to be that sort of character. Mr. Perry is extremely concerned when any of us are ill. But I do not understand how the room at the Crown can be safer for you than your father’s house.’
“先生，”伍德豪斯先生相当热情地说，“如果您认为佩里先生就是这样的人，那您就大错特错了。当我们有人生病时，佩里先生非常关心。但我不明白皇冠的房间对你来说怎么会比你父亲的房子更安全。”

‘From the very circumstance of its being larger, sir. We shall have no occasion to open the windows at all—not once the whole evening; and it is that dreadful habit of opening the windows, letting in cold air upon heated bodies, which (as you well know, sir) does the mischief.’
“从它更大的情况来看，先生。我们根本没有机会打开窗户——整个晚上一次也没有；正是这种可怕的习惯，即打开窗户，让冷空气吹进炎热的身体上，（正如您所知道的，先生）造成了危害。

‘Open the windows!—but surely, Mr. Churchill, nobody would think of opening the windows at Randalls. Nobody could be so imprudent! I never heard of such a thing. Dancing with open windows!—I am sure, neither your father nor Mrs. Weston (poor Miss Taylor that was) would suffer it.’
“打开窗户！——但是，丘吉尔先生，没有人会想到打开兰德尔斯的窗户。没有人可以如此轻率！我从来没有听说过这样的事情。开着窗户跳舞！——我相信，你的父亲和韦斯顿夫人（可怜的泰勒小姐）都不会受苦。

‘Ah! sir—but a thoughtless young person will sometimes step behind a window-curtain, and throw up a sash, without its being suspected. I have often known it done myself.’
'啊！先生——但是，一个粗心的年轻人有时会走到窗帘后面，在没有被怀疑的情况下掀起一条腰带。我经常知道这是我自己做的。

‘Have you indeed, sir?—Bless me! I never could have supposed it. But I live out of the world, and am often astonished at what I hear. However, this does make a difference; and, perhaps, when we come to talk it over—but these sort of things require a good deal of consideration. One cannot resolve upon them in a hurry. If Mr. and Mrs. Weston will be so obliging as to call here one morning, we may talk it over, and see what can be done.’
“你真的吗，先生？——保佑我吧！”我从来没想到会这样。但我生活在这个世界之外，常常对我所听到的感到惊讶。然而，这确实有所不同；也许，当我们来讨论这个问题时——但这类事情需要大量考虑。人们无法仓促地解决这些问题。如果韦斯顿先生和夫人有一天早上能热心地打电话到这里，我们可以讨论一下，看看能做些什么。

‘But, unfortunately, sir, my time is so limited—‘
“但是，不幸的是，先生，我的时间非常有限——”

‘Oh!’ interrupted Emma, ‘there will be plenty of time for talking every thing over. There is no hurry at all. If it can be contrived to be at the Crown, papa, it will be very convenient for the horses. They will be so near their own stable.’
“哦！”艾玛打断道，“我们有足够的时间来讨论所有的事情。”一点都不着急。爸爸，如果能把它安排在王冠上，那对马匹来说会很方便。他们会离自己的马厩很近。

‘So they will, my dear. That is a great thing. Not that James ever complains; but it is right to spare our horses when we can. If I could be sure of the rooms being thoroughly aired—but is Mrs. Stokes to be trusted? I doubt it. I do not know her, even by sight.’
“他们会的，亲爱的。这是一件伟大的事情。詹姆斯从来没有抱怨过；他只是抱怨而已。但尽可能地保护我们的马是正确的。如果我能确定房间通风良好就好了——但是斯托克斯太太值得信任吗？我对此表示怀疑。我不认识她，甚至连面貌都不认识。

‘I can answer for every thing of that nature, sir, because it will be under Mrs. Weston’s care. Mrs. Weston undertakes to direct the whole.’
“我可以对这种性质的所有事情负责，先生，因为它将由韦斯顿夫人照顾。韦斯顿夫人承诺指挥整个事情。

‘There, papa!—Now you must be satisfied—Our own dear Mrs. Weston, who is carefulness itself. Do not you remember what Mr. Perry said, so many years ago, when I had the measles? ‘If Miss Taylor undertakes to wrap Miss Emma up, you need not have any fears, sir.’ How often have I heard you speak of it as such a compliment to her!’
“好了，爸爸！——现在您一定满意了——我们亲爱的韦斯顿夫人，她本身就是细心的人。你不记得很多年前我得麻疹时佩里先生说过的话吗？ “如果泰勒小姐答应把艾玛小姐包裹起来，您就不必有任何恐惧，先生。”我多少次听到您说这是对她的赞美！

‘Aye, very true. Mr. Perry did say so. I shall never forget it. Poor little Emma! You were very bad with the measles; that is, you would have been very bad, but for Perry’s great attention. He came four times a day for a week. He said, from the first, it was a very good sort—which was our great comfort; but the measles are a dreadful complaint. I hope whenever poor Isabella’s little ones have the measles, she will send for Perry.’
是的，非常正确。佩里先生确实这么说过。我永远不会忘记它。可怜的小艾玛！你的麻疹病得很严重；也就是说，如果没有佩里的大力关注，你的表现可能会很糟糕。他一周每天来四次。他说，从一开始，这就是一个非常好的类型——这是我们最大的安慰；但麻疹是一种可怕的疾病。我希望每当可怜的伊莎贝拉的孩子们得麻疹时，她都会派人去找佩里。

‘My father and Mrs. Weston are at the Crown at this moment,’ said Frank Churchill, ‘examining the capabilities of the house. I left them there and came on to Hartfield, impatient for your opinion, and hoping you might be persuaded to join them and give your advice on the spot. I was desired to say so from both. It would be the greatest pleasure to them, if you could allow me to attend you there. They can do nothing satisfactorily without you.’
“我父亲和韦斯顿夫人此时正在王宫，”弗兰克·丘吉尔说道，“正在检查这座房子的功能。我把他们留在那里，来到哈特菲尔德，迫不及待地想听听你的意见，希望你能被说服加入他们并当场提出建议。双方都希望我这么说。如果您能允许我去那里参加您的活动，那将是他们最大的荣幸。没有你，他们什么也做不了。

Emma was most happy to be called to such a council; and her father, engaging to think it all over while she was gone, the two young people set off together without delay for the Crown. There were Mr. and Mrs. Weston; delighted to see her and receive her approbation, very busy and very happy in their different way; she, in some little distress; and he, finding every thing perfect.
艾玛很高兴被召集到这样一个委员会。和她的父亲，在她离开的时候仔细思考了这一切，两个年轻人立即出发前往王室。有韦斯顿先生和夫人。很高兴见到她并得到她的认可，以不同的方式非常忙碌和快乐；她，有些小苦恼；而他，发现一切都很完美。

‘Emma,’ said she, ‘this paper is worse than I expected. Look! in places you see it is dreadfully dirty; and the wainscot is more yellow and forlorn than any thing I could have imagined.’
“艾玛，”她说，“这篇论文比我想象的要糟糕。看！你看到的地方脏得要命；壁板比我想象的更黄更荒凉。

‘My dear, you are too particular,’ said her husband. ‘What does all that signify? You will see nothing of it by candlelight. It will be as clean as Randalls by candlelight. We never see any thing of it on our club-nights.’
“亲爱的，你太挑剔了，”她的丈夫说。 ‘这一切意味着什么？在烛光下你什么也看不到。它将像烛光下的兰德尔斯一样干净。我们在俱乐部之夜从来没有看到过这样的事情。

The ladies here probably exchanged looks which meant, ‘Men never know when things are dirty or not;’ and the gentlemen perhaps thought each to himself, ‘Women will have their little nonsenses and needless cares.’
这里的女士们可能交换了一个眼神，意思是“男人永远不知道什么时候东西脏了或不脏”；而男士们也许各自心里想：“女人也会有她们的小胡言乱语和不必要的关心。”

One perplexity, however, arose, which the gentlemen did not disdain. It regarded a supper-room. At the time of the ballroom’s being built, suppers had not been in question; and a small card-room adjoining, was the only addition. What was to be done? This card-room would be wanted as a card-room now; or, if cards were conveniently voted unnecessary by their four selves, still was it not too small for any comfortable supper? Another room of much better size might be secured for the purpose; but it was at the other end of the house, and a long awkward passage must be gone through to get at it. This made a difficulty. Mrs. Weston was afraid of draughts for the young people in that passage; and neither Emma nor the gentlemen could tolerate the prospect of being miserably crowded at supper.
然而，出现了一个困惑，绅士们并没有忽视这一点。它被认为是一个晚餐室。在建造舞厅时，晚餐并不存在问题。毗邻的一个小棋牌室是唯一的补充。该怎么办？现在，这个棋牌室将被用作棋牌室；或者，如果他们四个人很方便地认为卡片没有必要，那么对于任何舒适的晚餐来说，它仍然不是太小了吗？可以为此目的预留另一个更大的房间；但它在房子的另一端，必须穿过一条又长又尴尬的通道才能到达。这就造成了困难。韦斯顿夫人担心这段话里的年轻人会吃风。艾玛和先生们都无法忍受晚餐时挤得水泄不通。

Mrs. Weston proposed having no regular supper; merely sandwiches, &c., set out in the little room; but that was scouted as a wretched suggestion. A private dance, without sitting down to supper, was pronounced an infamous fraud upon the rights of men and women; and Mrs. Weston must not speak of it again. She then took another line of expediency, and looking into the doubtful room, observed,
韦斯顿夫人提议不吃正餐。小房间里只有三明治之类的东西。但这被认为是一个糟糕的建议。没有坐下来吃晚饭而举行私人舞会，被认为是对男女权利的臭名昭著的欺诈行为。韦斯顿夫人不能再提这件事了。然后她采取了另一条权宜之计，向可疑的房间望去，发现：

‘I do not think it is so very small. We shall not be many, you know.’
“我不认为它这么小。你知道，我们不会很多。

And Mr. Weston at the same time, walking briskly with long steps through the passage, was calling out,
与此同时，韦斯顿先生迈着大步轻快地穿过通道，大声喊道：

‘You talk a great deal of the length of this passage, my dear. It is a mere nothing after all; and not the least draught from the stairs.’
“亲爱的，你对这段话的长度说了很多。归根结底，这只是一无所有；没有一丝来自楼梯的风。”

‘I wish,’ said Mrs. Weston, ‘one could know which arrangement our guests in general would like best. To do what would be most generally pleasing must be our object—if one could but tell what that would be.’
“我希望，”韦斯顿夫人说，“人们能够知道我们的客人一般最喜欢哪种安排。我们的目标必须是做最普遍令人愉悦的事情——如果有人能说出那是什么的话。

‘Yes, very true,’ cried Frank, ‘very true. You want your neighbours’ opinions. I do not wonder at you. If one could ascertain what the chief of them—the Coles, for instance. They are not far off. Shall I call upon them? Or Miss Bates? She is still nearer.— And I do not know whether Miss Bates is not as likely to understand the inclinations of the rest of the people as any body. I think we do want a larger council. Suppose I go and invite Miss Bates to join us?’
“是的，非常正确，”弗兰克喊道，“非常正确。”您需要邻居的意见。我并不奇怪你。如果有人能确定他们中的佼佼者——例如科尔斯（Coles）。他们并不遥远。我要不要去拜访他们？还是贝茨小姐？她还更近了。——而且我不知道贝茨小姐是否不像其他人那样理解其他人的倾向。我认为我们确实需要一个更大的理事会。假设我去邀请贝茨小姐加入我们吗？

‘Well—if you please,’ said Mrs. Weston rather hesitating, ‘if you think she will be of any use.’
“好吧——如果你愿意的话，”韦斯顿夫人相当犹豫地说，“如果你认为她会有什么用处的话。”

‘You will get nothing to the purpose from Miss Bates,’ said Emma. ‘She will be all delight and gratitude, but she will tell you nothing. She will not even listen to your questions. I see no advantage in consulting Miss Bates.’
“从贝茨小姐那里你不会得到任何好处，”艾玛说。 “她会非常高兴和感激，但她什么也不会告诉你。她甚至不会听你的问题。我认为咨询贝茨小姐没有任何好处。

‘But she is so amusing, so extremely amusing! I am very fond of hearing Miss Bates talk. And I need not bring the whole family, you know.’
‘但她太有趣了，太有趣了！我很喜欢听贝茨小姐讲话。你知道，我不需要带上全家人。”

Here Mr. Weston joined them, and on hearing what was proposed, gave it his decided approbation.
韦斯顿先生加入了他们，在听到提议后，他坚决表示赞同。

‘Aye, do, Frank.—Go and fetch Miss Bates, and let us end the matter at once. She will enjoy the scheme, I am sure; and I do not know a properer person for shewing us how to do away difficulties. Fetch Miss Bates. We are growing a little too nice. She is a standing lesson of how to be happy. But fetch them both. Invite them both.’
“是的，弗兰克。——去叫贝茨小姐来，让我们立刻结束这件事。”我确信她会喜欢这个计划；我不知道有谁能告诉我们如何解决困难。把贝茨小姐叫来。我们长得有点太好了。她是一堂关于如何快乐的长期教训。但把它们都拿来。邀请他们两个。

‘Both sir! Can the old lady?’ …
‘两位先生！老太太可以吗？”……

‘The old lady! No, the young lady, to be sure. I shall think you a great blockhead, Frank, if you bring the aunt without the niece.’
'年纪大的女士！不，这位年轻女士，可以肯定。弗兰克，如果你只带姨妈而不带侄女，我会认为你是个大傻瓜。

‘Oh! I beg your pardon, sir. I did not immediately recollect. Undoubtedly if you wish it, I will endeavour to persuade them both.’ And away he ran.
'哦！请您原谅，先生。我没有立即回忆起来。毫无疑问，如果你愿意的话，我会尽力说服他们俩。”然后他就跑开了。

Long before he reappeared, attending the short, neat, brisk-moving aunt, and her elegant niece,—Mrs. Weston, like a sweet-tempered woman and a good wife, had examined the passage again, and found the evils of it much less than she had supposed before— indeed very trifling; and here ended the difficulties of decision. All the rest, in speculation at least, was perfectly smooth. All the minor arrangements of table and chair, lights and music, tea and supper, made themselves; or were left as mere trifles to be settled at any time between Mrs. Weston and Mrs. Stokes.— Every body invited, was certainly to come; Frank had already written to Enscombe to propose staying a few days beyond his fortnight, which could not possibly be refused. And a delightful dance it was to be.
早在他再次出现之前，照顾这位身材矮小、整洁、行动敏捷的姨妈和她优雅的侄女——韦斯顿就像一个脾气温和的女人和一个好妻子，再次审视了这段文字，发现它的邪恶之处比她之前想象的要小得多——实际上非常微不足道；至此，决定的困难就结束了。其余的一切，至少在猜测中，都非常顺利。桌子和椅子、灯光和音乐、茶和晚餐等所有细小的安排都是自己安排的。或者只是留在韦斯顿夫人和斯托克斯夫人之间随时解决的琐事。——每个被邀请的人肯定都会来；弗兰克已经写信给恩斯科姆，提议在两周后多住几天，这是不可能拒绝的。这是一场令人愉快的舞蹈。

Most cordially, when Miss Bates arrived, did she agree that it must. As a counsellor she was not wanted; but as an approver, (a much safer character,) she was truly welcome. Her approbation, at once general and minute, warm and incessant, could not but please; and for another half-hour they were all walking to and fro, between the different rooms, some suggesting, some attending, and all in happy enjoyment of the future. The party did not break up without Emma’s being positively secured for the two first dances by the hero of the evening, nor without her overhearing Mr. Weston whisper to his wife, ‘He has asked her, my dear. That’s right. I knew he would!’
当贝茨小姐到达时，她非常诚恳地同意必须这么做。作为一名辅导员，她不被需要；但作为一个批准者（一个更安全的角色），她确实受到欢迎。她的赞许既普遍又细致，热情而持续，不能不令人高兴。接下来的半个小时里，他们都在不同的房间之间来回走动，有的提出建议，有的出席，所有的一切都在快乐地享受着未来。晚会结束时，艾玛没有得到今晚英雄的第一场两支舞的保证，也没有无意中听到韦斯顿先生对他的妻子低声说：“他已经邀请她了，亲爱的。”这是正确的。我就知道他会的！

Chapter XII
第十二章

One thing only was wanting to make the prospect of the ball completely satisfactory to Emma—its being fixed for a day within the granted term of Frank Churchill’s stay in Surry; for, in spite of Mr. Weston’s confidence, she could not think it so very impossible that the Churchills might not allow their nephew to remain a day beyond his fortnight. But this was not judged feasible. The preparations must take their time, nothing could be properly ready till the third week were entered on, and for a few days they must be planning, proceeding and hoping in uncertainty—at the risk— in her opinion, the great risk, of its being all in vain.
唯一的一件事就是想让艾玛对舞会的前景完全满意——它被定在弗兰克·丘吉尔在萨里逗留期间的一天；因为，尽管韦斯顿先生很有信心，但她也不认为丘吉尔一家不可能允许他们的侄子在两周后多留一天。但这被认为不可行。准备工作必须花时间，直到第三周才开始，任何事情都无法做好准备，在接下来的几天里，他们必须在不确定的情况下计划、进行和希望——冒着风险——在她看来，这是巨大的风险，一切都是徒然。

Enscombe however was gracious, gracious in fact, if not in word. His wish of staying longer evidently did not please; but it was not opposed. All was safe and prosperous; and as the removal of one solicitude generally makes way for another, Emma, being now certain of her ball, began to adopt as the next vexation Mr. Knightley’s provoking indifference about it. Either because he did not dance himself, or because the plan had been formed without his being consulted, he seemed resolved that it should not interest him, determined against its exciting any present curiosity, or affording him any future amusement. To her voluntary communications Emma could get no more approving reply, than,
然而，恩斯库姆却很和蔼可亲，即使不是口头上，也确实是和蔼可亲。显然，他想要停留更长时间的愿望并不令人满意。但没有人反对。一切都安全、繁荣；随着一种忧虑的消除通常会为另一种忧虑让路，艾玛现在对自己的舞会有了信心，开始将奈特利先生对此的令人恼火的冷漠视为下一个烦恼。要么是因为他自己不跳舞，要么是因为这个计划是在没有征求他意见的情况下制定的，他似乎决心不让自己对它感兴趣，决心不让它激起任何当前的好奇心，也不为他提供任何未来的乐趣。对于她自愿的沟通，艾玛无法得到比以下更赞同的答复：

‘Very well. If the Westons think it worth while to be at all this trouble for a few hours of noisy entertainment, I have nothing to say against it, but that they shall not chuse pleasures for me.— Oh! yes, I must be there; I could not refuse; and I will keep as much awake as I can; but I would rather be at home, looking over William Larkins’s week’s account; much rather, I confess.— Pleasure in seeing dancing!—not I, indeed—I never look at it— I do not know who does.—Fine dancing, I believe, like virtue, must be its own reward. Those who are standing by are usually thinking of something very different.’
'很好。如果韦斯顿夫妇认为值得为了几个小时的喧闹娱乐而大费周章，我没有什么可反对的，但他们不会为我选择快乐。——哦！是的，我必须在那里；我无法拒绝；我会尽可能保持清醒；但我宁愿待在家里，查看威廉·拉金斯的一周账目；更确切地说，我承认。——观看舞蹈的乐趣！——不是我，确实——我从不看它——我不知道是谁看的。——我相信，优美的舞蹈，就像美德一样，一定是它自己的回报。那些站在一旁的人通常会想到一些非常不同的事情。

This Emma felt was aimed at her; and it made her quite angry. It was not in compliment to Jane Fairfax however that he was so indifferent, or so indignant; he was not guided by her feelings in reprobating the ball, for she enjoyed the thought of it to an extraordinary degree. It made her animated—open hearted— she voluntarily said;—
艾玛觉得这是针对她的。这让她很生气。然而，他如此冷漠或如此愤慨，并不是对简·费尔法克斯的恭维。他并没有因为她的感情而谴责这个舞会，因为她非常喜欢这个想法。这让她充满活力——心胸开阔——她自愿说；——

‘Oh! Miss Woodhouse, I hope nothing may happen to prevent the ball. What a disappointment it would be! I do look forward to it, I own, with very great pleasure.’
'哦！伍德豪斯小姐，我希望不会发生任何事情来阻止舞会。那将是多么令人失望啊！我确实非常高兴地期待着它。

It was not to oblige Jane Fairfax therefore that he would have preferred the society of William Larkins. No!—she was more and more convinced that Mrs. Weston was quite mistaken in that surmise. There was a great deal of friendly and of compassionate attachment on his side—but no love.
因此，他宁愿与威廉·拉金斯交往，并不是为了迫使简·费尔法克斯这么做。不！——她越来越确信韦斯顿夫人的猜测是完全错误的。他身上充满了友好和富有同情心的依恋——但没有爱。

Alas! there was soon no leisure for quarrelling with Mr. Knightley. Two days of joyful security were immediately followed by the over-throw of every thing. A letter arrived from Mr. Churchill to urge his nephew’s instant return. Mrs. Churchill was unwell— far too unwell to do without him; she had been in a very suffering state (so said her husband) when writing to her nephew two days before, though from her usual unwillingness to give pain, and constant habit of never thinking of herself, she had not mentioned it; but now she was too ill to trifle, and must entreat him to set off for Enscombe without delay.
唉!很快，他们就没有闲暇与奈特利先生争吵了。两天愉快的安全生活之后，一切都被推翻了。丘吉尔先生寄来一封信，敦促他的侄子立即返回。丘吉尔夫人身体不太舒服——没有他就太难受了。两天前，当她给侄子写信时，她一直处于一种非常痛苦的状态（她的丈夫是这样说的），尽管她平时不愿意付出痛苦，而且一直习惯于从不考虑自己，所以她没有提到这一点；但现在她病得太重了，不能再耽搁了，必须恳求他立即动身去恩斯库姆。

The substance of this letter was forwarded to Emma, in a note from Mrs. Weston, instantly. As to his going, it was inevitable. He must be gone within a few hours, though without feeling any real alarm for his aunt, to lessen his repugnance. He knew her illnesses; they never occurred but for her own convenience.
这封信的实质内容立即通过韦斯顿夫人的便条转发给艾玛。至于他的离开，那是必然的事情。他必须在几个小时内离开，尽管不要对他的姨妈感到任何真正的惊慌，以减轻他的反感。他知道她的病；他知道她的病。这些事从来没有发生过，只是为了她自己的方便。

Mrs. Weston added, ‘that he could only allow himself time to hurry to Highbury, after breakfast, and take leave of the few friends there whom he could suppose to feel any interest in him; and that he might be expected at Hartfield very soon.’
韦斯顿夫人补充道，“早餐后，他只能给自己留出时间赶去海布里，向那里的几个朋友告别，他认为他们对他有兴趣；但他并没有这么做。”预计他很快就会来到哈特菲尔德。

This wretched note was the finale of Emma’s breakfast. When once it had been read, there was no doing any thing, but lament and exclaim. The loss of the ball—the loss of the young man— and all that the young man might be feeling!—It was too wretched!— Such a delightful evening as it would have been!—Every body so happy! and she and her partner the happiest!—‘I said it would be so,’ was the only consolation.
这可怜的音符是艾玛早餐的结局。读完之后，除了感叹和感叹之外，什么也没有做。丢了球——失去了年轻人——以及年轻人可能感受到的一切！——这太悲惨了！——本来会是一个多么令人愉快的夜晚！——每个人都那么高兴！她和她的伴侣是最幸福的！——“我说过会这样的”是唯一的安慰。

Her father’s feelings were quite distinct. He thought principally of Mrs. Churchill’s illness, and wanted to know how she was treated; and as for the ball, it was shocking to have dear Emma disappointed; but they would all be safer at home.
她父亲的感受非常明显。他主要想到的是丘吉尔夫人的病，想知道她的治疗情况如何。至于舞会，令人震惊的是，亲爱的艾玛感到失望。但他们在家里都会更安全。

Emma was ready for her visitor some time before he appeared; but if this reflected at all upon his impatience, his sorrowful look and total want of spirits when he did come might redeem him. He felt the going away almost too much to speak of it. His dejection was most evident. He sat really lost in thought for the first few minutes; and when rousing himself, it was only to say,
在访客出现之前，艾玛已经做好了迎接他的准备。但如果这完全反映了他的不耐烦，那么当他来的时候他悲伤的表情和完全没有精神可能会救赎他。他对离开的感觉实在难以言喻。他的沮丧最为明显。最初的几分钟里，他真的陷入了沉思。当他清醒过来时，他只是说：

‘Of all horrid things, leave-taking is the worst.’
“在所有可怕的事情中，告别是最糟糕的。”

‘But you will come again,’ said Emma. ‘This will not be your only visit to Randalls.’
“但你会再来的，”艾玛说。 “这不会是您唯一一次访问兰德尔斯。”

‘Ah!—(shaking his head)—the uncertainty of when I may be able to return!—I shall try for it with a zeal!—It will be the object of all my thoughts and cares!—and if my uncle and aunt go to town this spring—but I am afraid—they did not stir last spring— I am afraid it is a custom gone for ever.’
“啊！——（摇头）——我什么时候能回来还不确定！——我会满怀热忱地去尝试！——这将是我所有思想和关心的对象！——如果我的叔叔和“今年春天，姨妈进城去了——但是我担心——去年春天他们没有动静——我担心这种习俗已经一去不复返了。”

‘Our poor ball must be quite given up.’
“我们可怜的球肯定已经被放弃了。”

‘Ah! that ball!—why did we wait for any thing?—why not seize the pleasure at once?—How often is happiness destroyed by preparation, foolish preparation!—You told us it would be so.—Oh! Miss Woodhouse, why are you always so right?’
'啊！那个球！——为什么我们要等待任何事情？——为什么不立即抓住快乐？——幸福常常被准备所破坏，愚蠢的准备！——你告诉过我们会这样的。——哦！伍德豪斯小姐，为什么你总是那么正确？

‘Indeed, I am very sorry to be right in this instance. I would much rather have been merry than wise.’
“确实，我很抱歉在这件事上是对的。我宁愿快乐也不愿聪明。

‘If I can come again, we are still to have our ball. My father depends on it. Do not forget your engagement.’
“如果我能再来，我们仍然会拥有我们的球。我父亲就靠它了。别忘了你的订婚。

Emma looked graciously.
艾玛看上去很亲切。

‘Such a fortnight as it has been!’ he continued; ‘every day more precious and more delightful than the day before!—every day making me less fit to bear any other place. Happy those, who can remain at Highbury!’
“已经过去两周了！”他继续说道。 “每一天都比前一天更珍贵、更愉快！——每一天都让我不再适合忍受任何其他地方。”那些能够留在海布里的人有福了！”

‘As you do us such ample justice now,’ said Emma, laughing, ‘I will venture to ask, whether you did not come a little doubtfully at first? Do not we rather surpass your expectations? I am sure we do. I am sure you did not much expect to like us. You would not have been so long in coming, if you had had a pleasant idea of Highbury.’
“既然你现在对我们如此公正，”艾玛笑着说，“我斗胆问一下，你一开始来的时候是否有一点怀疑？难道我们不想超越您的期望吗？我确信我们会的。我相信您并没有期望会喜欢我们。如果你对海布里有一个愉快的想法的话，你就不会这么久才来。

He laughed rather consciously; and though denying the sentiment, Emma was convinced that it had been so.
他很有意识地笑了。尽管艾玛否认了这种感觉，但她确信事实确实如此。

‘And you must be off this very morning?’
“你今天早上就必须离开吗？”

‘Yes; my father is to join me here: we shall walk back together, and I must be off immediately. I am almost afraid that every moment will bring him.’
'是的;我父亲要在这里和我会合：我们一起走回去，我必须立即出发。我几乎担心每时每刻都会带来他。

‘Not five minutes to spare even for your friends Miss Fairfax and Miss Bates? How unlucky! Miss Bates’s powerful, argumentative mind might have strengthened yours.’
“连你的朋友费尔法克斯小姐和贝茨小姐都没有抽出五分钟的时间吗？”多么不幸啊！贝茨小姐强大而好辩的头脑可能会增强你的头脑。

‘Yes—I have called there; passing the door, I thought it better. It was a right thing to do. I went in for three minutes, and was detained by Miss Bates’s being absent. She was out; and I felt it impossible not to wait till she came in. She is a woman that one may, that one must laugh at; but that one would not wish to slight. It was better to pay my visit, then’—
“是的——我已经到那里去了；过了门，我觉得这样更好。这是一件正确的事。我进去了三分钟，因贝茨小姐缺席而耽搁了时间。她出去了；我觉得不可能不等到她进来。她是一个可以被人嘲笑的女人；她是一个可以被人嘲笑的女人。但那人却不愿怠慢。那么我最好还是去拜访一下——

He hesitated, got up, walked to a window.
他犹豫了一下，起身，走到窗前。

‘In short,’ said he, ‘perhaps, Miss Woodhouse—I think you can hardly be quite without suspicion’—
“简而言之，”他说，“也许，伍德豪斯小姐——我想你很难没有怀疑”——

He looked at her, as if wanting to read her thoughts. She hardly knew what to say. It seemed like the forerunner of something absolutely serious, which she did not wish. Forcing herself to speak, therefore, in the hope of putting it by, she calmly said,
他看着她，似乎想读懂她的想法。她几乎不知道该说什么。这似乎是某种绝对严肃的事情的先兆，但她并不希望如此。于是，她强迫自己开口说话，希望能把这件事搁置一旁，平静地说道：

‘You are quite in the right; it was most natural to pay your visit, then’—
‘你说得很对；你来拜访是最自然的事，那么——

He was silent. She believed he was looking at her; probably reflecting on what she had said, and trying to understand the manner. She heard him sigh. It was natural for him to feel that he had cause to sigh. He could not believe her to be encouraging him. A few awkward moments passed, and he sat down again; and in a more determined manner said,
他沉默了。她相信他正在看着她；但事实并非如此。可能是在思考她所说的话，并试图理解她的态度。她听到他叹了口气。他自然而然地觉得自己有理由叹息。他不敢相信她会鼓励他。几个尴尬的时刻过去了，他又坐下了。并以更加坚定的方式说道：

‘It was something to feel that all the rest of my time might be given to Hartfield. My regard for Hartfield is most warm’—
“我感觉我剩下的时间都可以交给哈特菲尔德了，这是一种感觉。”我对哈特菲尔德的敬意是最热烈的”——

He stopt again, rose again, and seemed quite embarrassed.— He was more in love with her than Emma had supposed; and who can say how it might have ended, if his father had not made his appearance? Mr. Woodhouse soon followed; and the necessity of exertion made him composed.
他又停下来，又站起来，看上去很尴尬。——他比艾玛想象的更爱她；他比爱玛想象的更爱她。如果他的父亲没有出现，谁能说清事情会怎样结束呢？伍德豪斯先生很快也跟了上去。努力的必要性使他镇静下来。

A very few minutes more, however, completed the present trial. Mr. Weston, always alert when business was to be done, and as incapable of procrastinating any evil that was inevitable, as of foreseeing any that was doubtful, said, ‘It was time to go;’ and the young man, though he might and did sigh, could not but agree, to take leave.
然而，几分钟后，本次审判就完成了。韦斯顿先生在要做生意时总是保持警惕，并且无法拖延任何不可避免的邪恶，也无法预见任何可疑的事情，他说：“是时候离开了；”而那个年轻人，尽管他可能会叹了口气，只好答应，告辞了。

‘I shall hear about you all,’ said he; that is my chief consolation. I shall hear of every thing that is going on among you. I have engaged Mrs. Weston to correspond with me. She has been so kind as to promise it. Oh! the blessing of a female correspondent, when one is really interested in the absent!—she will tell me every thing. In her letters I shall be at dear Highbury again.’
“我会听听你们所有人的情况，”他说。这是我最大的安慰。我会听到你们中间发生的每一件事。我已聘请韦斯顿夫人与我通信。她好心答应了。哦！当一个人真正对缺席的事情感兴趣时，一位女记者的祝福！——她会告诉我一切。在她的信中，我将再次回到亲爱的海布里。

A very friendly shake of the hand, a very earnest ‘Good-bye,’ closed the speech, and the door had soon shut out Frank Churchill. Short had been the notice—short their meeting; he was gone; and Emma felt so sorry to part, and foresaw so great a loss to their little society from his absence as to begin to be afraid of being too sorry, and feeling it too much.
一次非常友好的握手，一次非常真诚的“再见”，演讲结束了，门很快就把弗兰克·丘吉尔关在了外面。通知很短——他们的会面很短；他走了；爱玛对分开感到非常遗憾，并预见到他的缺席会给他们的小社会带来如此巨大的损失，因此她开始担心自己会感到太遗憾，感觉太遗憾。

It was a sad change. They had been meeting almost every day since his arrival. Certainly his being at Randalls had given great spirit to the last two weeks—indescribable spirit; the idea, the expectation of seeing him which every morning had brought, the assurance of his attentions, his liveliness, his manners! It had been a very happy fortnight, and forlorn must be the sinking from it into the common course of Hartfield days. To complete every other recommendation, he had almost told her that he loved her. What strength, or what constancy of affection he might be subject to, was another point; but at present she could not doubt his having a decidedly warm admiration, a conscious preference of herself; and this persuasion, joined to all the rest, made her think that she must be a little in love with him, in spite of every previous determination against it.
这是一个令人悲伤的变化。自从他到来以来，他们几乎每天都会见面。当然，他在兰德尔斯的表现给过去两周带来了巨大的精神——难以形容的精神；每天早晨所带来的这个想法、对见到他的期待、他的关注、他的活力、他的举止的保证！这是一个非常快乐的两周，而从中沉入哈特菲尔德日子的平常过程一定是令人沮丧的。为了完成其他所有推荐，他几乎已经告诉她他爱她。他可能受到什么样的力量，或者什么样的持续的感情，是另一回事了；但目前她无法怀疑他对自己怀有一种明显的热烈钦佩，一种有意识的偏爱。这种说服，再加上其他一切，让她觉得自己一定有点爱他，尽管之前她曾多次下定决心反对这一点。

‘I certainly must,’ said she. ‘This sensation of listlessness, weariness, stupidity, this disinclination to sit down and employ myself, this feeling of every thing’s being dull and insipid about the house!— I must be in love; I should be the oddest creature in the world if I were not—for a few weeks at least. Well! evil to some is always good to others. I shall have many fellow-mourners for the ball, if not for Frank Churchill; but Mr. Knightley will be happy. He may spend the evening with his dear William Larkins now if he likes.’
“我当然必须，”她说。 “这种无精打采、疲倦、愚蠢的感觉，这种不愿坐下来工作的感觉，这种房子里一切都枯燥乏味的感觉！——我一定是恋爱了；如果我不是的话，我应该是世界上最奇怪的生物——至少在几周内是这样。出色地！对某些人来说恶总是对其他人有好处。即使没有弗兰克·丘吉尔，我也会有很多人来参加舞会。但奈特利先生会很高兴的。如果他愿意的话，他现在可以和他亲爱的威廉·拉金斯共度夜晚。

Mr. Knightley, however, shewed no triumphant happiness. He could not say that he was sorry on his own account; his very cheerful look would have contradicted him if he had; but he said, and very steadily, that he was sorry for the disappointment of the others, and with considerable kindness added,
然而，奈特利先生并没有表现出胜利的喜悦。他不能为自己说对不起；他不能因为自己的缘故而感到抱歉。如果他真的这么做的话，他那非常愉快的表情就会与他相矛盾。但他非常坚定地表示，他对其他人的失望感到抱歉，并补充了相当的善意，

‘You, Emma, who have so few opportunities of dancing, you are really out of luck; you are very much out of luck!’
‘你，艾玛，跳舞的机会这么少，你真是运气不好；你太不走运了！

It was some days before she saw Jane Fairfax, to judge of her honest regret in this woeful change; but when they did meet, her composure was odious. She had been particularly unwell, however, suffering from headache to a degree, which made her aunt declare, that had the ball taken place, she did not think Jane could have attended it; and it was charity to impute some of her unbecoming indifference to the languor of ill-health.
几天后，她才见到简·费尔法克斯，对这一悲惨的变化感到由衷的遗憾。但当他们真正见面时，她的镇定却令人厌恶。然而，她身体特别不舒服，头痛到一定程度，这让她姨妈宣称，如果舞会举行，她认为简不可能参加；她认为简不可能参加舞会。把她不合时宜的冷漠归咎于健康欠佳的倦怠，这也是一种仁慈。

Chapter XIII
第十三章

Emma continued to entertain no doubt of her being in love. Her ideas only varied as to the how much. At first, she thought it was a good deal; and afterwards, but little. She had great pleasure in hearing Frank Churchill talked of; and, for his sake, greater pleasure than ever in seeing Mr. and Mrs. Weston; she was very often thinking of him, and quite impatient for a letter, that she might know how he was, how were his spirits, how was his aunt, and what was the chance of his coming to Randalls again this spring. But, on the other hand, she could not admit herself to be unhappy, nor, after the first morning, to be less disposed for employment than usual; she was still busy and cheerful; and, pleasing as he was, she could yet imagine him to have faults; and farther, though thinking of him so much, and, as she sat drawing or working, forming a thousand amusing schemes for the progress and close of their attachment, fancying interesting dialogues, and inventing elegant letters; the conclusion of every imaginary declaration on his side was that she refused him. Their affection was always to subside into friendship. Every thing tender and charming was to mark their parting; but still they were to part. When she became sensible of this, it struck her that she could not be very much in love; for in spite of her previous and fixed determination never to quit her father, never to marry, a strong attachment certainly must produce more of a struggle than she could foresee in her own feelings.
艾玛继续毫无疑问地相信自己正在恋爱。她的想法只是在多少上有所不同。起初，她认为这是一笔划算的交易。之后，但很少。她很高兴听到弗兰克·丘吉尔谈论他。而且，为了他的缘故，见到韦斯顿先生和夫人比以往任何时候都更加高兴；她时常想起他，迫不及待地想要一封信，以便了解他的近况，他的精神如何，他的姨妈怎么样，以及他今年春天再次来到兰德尔斯的机会有多大。但是，另一方面，她不能承认自己不高兴，也不能承认在第一天早上之后，她比平时更不愿意工作；她不能承认自己不高兴。她依然忙碌而快乐；尽管他很讨人喜欢，但她还是能想象他有缺点。更进一步，虽然她非常想念他，但当她坐下来画画或工作时，她为他们的依恋的进展和结束制定了一千个有趣的计划，想象有趣的对话，并发明优雅的信件；他的每一个想象的宣言的结论都是她拒绝了他。他们的感情总是会消退为友谊。一切温柔迷人的事物都标志着他们的离别；但他们还是要分开。当她意识到这一点时，她突然意识到自己不可能爱得太深。因为尽管她之前就下定决心永远不会离开父亲，永远不会结婚，但强烈的依恋肯定会产生比她自己的感情所能预见的更多的挣扎。

‘I do not find myself making any use of the word sacrifice,’ said she.— ‘In not one of all my clever replies, my delicate negatives, is there any allusion to making a sacrifice. I do suspect that he is not really necessary to my happiness. So much the better. I certainly will not persuade myself to feel more than I do. I am quite enough in love. I should be sorry to be more.’
“我发现自己没有使用牺牲这个词，”她说。“在我所有巧妙的回答中，在我微妙的否定中，没有一个暗示做出牺牲。我确实怀疑他对于我的幸福并不是真正必要的。那就更好了。我当然不会说服自己去感受比自己更多的感受。我已经足够爱了。我应该感到遗憾的是更多。

Upon the whole, she was equally contented with her view of his feelings.
总的来说，她对自己对他感情的看法同样满意。

‘He is undoubtedly very much in love—every thing denotes it—very much in love indeed!—and when he comes again, if his affection continue, I must be on my guard not to encourage it.—It would be most inexcusable to do otherwise, as my own mind is quite made up. Not that I imagine he can think I have been encouraging him hitherto. No, if he had believed me at all to share his feelings, he would not have been so wretched. Could he have thought himself encouraged, his looks and language at parting would have been different.— Still, however, I must be on my guard. This is in the supposition of his attachment continuing what it now is; but I do not know that I expect it will; I do not look upon him to be quite the sort of man— I do not altogether build upon his steadiness or constancy.— His feelings are warm, but I can imagine them rather changeable.— Every consideration of the subject, in short, makes me thankful that my happiness is not more deeply involved.—I shall do very well again after a little while—and then, it will be a good thing over; for they say every body is in love once in their lives, and I shall have been let off easily.’
“毫无疑问，他非常相爱——一切都表明了这一点——确实非常相爱！——当他再来时，如果他的感情继续下去，我必须保持警惕，不要鼓励它。——这是最不可原谅的否则的话，因为我自己已经下定决心了。我并不认为他会认为我迄今为止一直在鼓励他。不，如果他真的相信我分享他的感受，他就不会这么可怜了。如果他认为自己受到了鼓励，他临别时的表情和语言就会有所不同。——不过，我仍然必须保持警惕。这是假设他的依恋继续现在的状态；但我不知道我是否期望它会发生；我不认为他是那种人——我并不完全建立在他的稳定或坚定之上。——他的感情是温暖的，但我可以想象他们相当多变。——简而言之，对这个主题的每一个考虑都使我很庆幸我的幸福没有被更深地牵涉其中。——过一会儿我会再次表现得很好——然后，这将是一件好事；因为他们说每个人一生都会恋爱一次，而我很容易就被放过。

When his letter to Mrs. Weston arrived, Emma had the perusal of it; and she read it with a degree of pleasure and admiration which made her at first shake her head over her own sensations, and think she had undervalued their strength. It was a long, well-written letter, giving the particulars of his journey and of his feelings, expressing all the affection, gratitude, and respect which was natural and honourable, and describing every thing exterior and local that could be supposed attractive, with spirit and precision. No suspicious flourishes now of apology or concern; it was the language of real feeling towards Mrs. Weston; and the transition from Highbury to Enscombe, the contrast between the places in some of the first blessings of social life was just enough touched on to shew how keenly it was felt, and how much more might have been said but for the restraints of propriety.—The charm of her own name was not wanting. Miss Woodhouse appeared more than once, and never without a something of pleasing connexion, either a compliment to her taste, or a remembrance of what she had said; and in the very last time of its meeting her eye, unadorned as it was by any such broad wreath of gallantry, she yet could discern the effect of her influence and acknowledge the greatest compliment perhaps of all conveyed. Compressed into the very lowest vacant corner were these words—‘I had not a spare moment on Tuesday, as you know, for Miss Woodhouse’s beautiful little friend. Pray make my excuses and adieus to her.’ This, Emma could not doubt, was all for herself. Harriet was remembered only from being her friend. His information and prospects as to Enscombe were neither worse nor better than had been anticipated; Mrs. Churchill was recovering, and he dared not yet, even in his own imagination, fix a time for coming to Randalls again.
当他给韦斯顿夫人的信到达时，艾玛仔细阅读了它。她怀着一定程度的愉悦和钦佩读了这本书，这让她一开始对自己的感觉摇摇头，认为自己低估了他们的力量。这是一封写得很好的长信，详细描述了他的旅程和感受，表达了所有自然而光荣的感情、感激和尊重，描述了一切外部和当地可能被认为有吸引力的事物，精神和精确度。现在没有可疑的道歉或担忧；这是对韦斯顿夫人真实感情的语言；从海布里到恩斯库姆的转变，这些地方之间的对比足以表明人们对社会生活的最初祝福有多么强烈，如果没有礼节的限制，还可以说更多的话。 ——她自己的名字的魅力并不缺乏。伍德豪斯小姐不止一次出现，每次都给人一种令人愉快的感觉，要么是对她品味的称赞，要么是对她说过的话的回忆。在最后一次与她目光相遇时，虽然没有受到任何如此宽阔的英勇花环的装饰，但她仍然能够辨别出她的影响力，并承认也许是所有传达的最大的赞美。最底层的空角落里塞满了这样的话——“正如你所知，周二我没有时间陪伴伍德豪斯小姐美丽的小朋友。”请原谅我向她告别。”艾玛毫不怀疑，这一切都是为了她自己。人们只记得哈丽特是她的朋友。他对恩斯库姆的了解和前景并不比预想的更糟，也没有比预想的更好。太太。 丘吉尔正在康复，即使在他自己的想象中，他还不敢确定再次来到兰德尔斯的时间。

Gratifying, however, and stimulative as was the letter in the material part, its sentiments, she yet found, when it was folded up and returned to Mrs. Weston, that it had not added any lasting warmth, that she could still do without the writer, and that he must learn to do without her. Her intentions were unchanged. Her resolution of refusal only grew more interesting by the addition of a scheme for his subsequent consolation and happiness. His recollection of Harriet, and the words which clothed it, the ‘beautiful little friend,’ suggested to her the idea of Harriet’s succeeding her in his affections. Was it impossible?—No.—Harriet undoubtedly was greatly his inferior in understanding; but he had been very much struck with the loveliness of her face and the warm simplicity of her manner; and all the probabilities of circumstance and connexion were in her favour.—For Harriet, it would be advantageous and delightful indeed.
然而，令人欣慰的是，尽管这封信的物质部分和它的情感令人兴奋，但她发现，当它被折叠起来并返回给韦斯顿夫人时，它并没有增加任何持久的温暖，她仍然可以没有作家，他必须学会在没有她的情况下生活。她的意图没有改变。她的拒绝决定变得更加有趣，因为她为他随后的安慰和幸福增加了一个计划。他对哈丽特的回忆，以及形容“美丽的小朋友”的词语，让她想到哈丽特将在感情上继承她。这不可能吗？——不。——哈丽雅特的理解力无疑比他差得多。但她那美丽的脸庞和她热情朴素的举止给他留下了深刻的印象。环境和关系的所有可能性都对她有利。——对哈丽特来说，这确实是有利且令人愉快的。

‘I must not dwell upon it,’ said she.—‘I must not think of it. I know the danger of indulging such speculations. But stranger things have happened; and when we cease to care for each other as we do now, it will be the means of confirming us in that sort of true disinterested friendship which I can already look forward to with pleasure.’
“我不能再想这件事了，”她说，“我不能想它。”我知道沉迷于这种猜测的危险。但奇怪的事情发生了；当我们不再像现在这样互相关心时，这将是巩固我们之间真正无私友谊的一种方式，我已经可以愉快地期待这种友谊了。

It was well to have a comfort in store on Harriet’s behalf, though it might be wise to let the fancy touch it seldom; for evil in that quarter was at hand. As Frank Churchill’s arrival had succeeded Mr. Elton’s engagement in the conversation of Highbury, as the latest interest had entirely borne down the first, so now upon Frank Churchill’s disappearance, Mr. Elton’s concerns were assuming the most irresistible form.—His wedding-day was named. He would soon be among them again; Mr. Elton and his bride. There was hardly time to talk over the first letter from Enscombe before ‘Mr. Elton and his bride’ was in every body’s mouth, and Frank Churchill was forgotten. Emma grew sick at the sound. She had had three weeks of happy exemption from Mr. Elton; and Harriet’s mind, she had been willing to hope, had been lately gaining strength. With Mr. Weston’s ball in view at least, there had been a great deal of insensibility to other things; but it was now too evident that she had not attained such a state of composure as could stand against the actual approach—new carriage, bell-ringing, and all.
为哈丽特准备一份安慰是件好事，尽管很少让幻想触动它可能是明智的。因为那个地区的邪恶即将来临。由于弗兰克·丘吉尔的到来是在埃尔顿先生参与海布里的谈话之后到来的，因为最近的兴趣完全压倒了第一个，所以现在弗兰克·丘吉尔失踪后，埃尔顿先生的担忧呈现出最不可抗拒的形式。被命名。他很快就会再次成为他们之中的一员。埃尔顿先生和他的新娘。在“先生”之前，几乎没有时间谈论恩斯科姆的第一封信。每个人都在谈论“埃尔顿和他的新娘”，而弗兰克·丘吉尔却被遗忘了。艾玛听到这个声音感到恶心。她已经愉快地度过了三个星期，不受埃尔顿先生的约束。哈丽雅特一直希望她的精神最近正在变得坚强。至少在韦斯顿先生的舞会上，人们对其他事情表现得麻木不仁。但现在很明显，她还没有达到能够抵御实际接近的镇定状态——新马车、铃声等等。

Poor Harriet was in a flutter of spirits which required all the reasonings and soothings and attentions of every kind that Emma could give. Emma felt that she could not do too much for her, that Harriet had a right to all her ingenuity and all her patience; but it was heavy work to be for ever convincing without producing any effect, for ever agreed to, without being able to make their opinions the same. Harriet listened submissively, and said ‘it was very true— it was just as Miss Woodhouse described—it was not worth while to think about them—and she would not think about them any longer’ but no change of subject could avail, and the next half-hour saw her as anxious and restless about the Eltons as before. At last Emma attacked her on another ground.
可怜的哈丽特情绪激动，需要艾玛所能提供的一切推理、安慰和关注。爱玛觉得自己不能为哈丽特做太多的事，哈丽特有权发挥她的聪明才智和耐心。但要永远令人信服却又不产生任何效果，永远要达成一致意见却又不能使他们的观点一致，这是一项艰巨的工作。哈丽雅特顺从地听着，说道：“确实如此——正如伍德豪斯小姐所描述的那样——不值得去想它们——而且她不会再去想它们了”，但是改变话题却无济于事。接下来的半个小时里，她和以前一样对埃尔顿一家感到焦虑和不安。最后，艾玛以另一个理由攻击了她。

‘Your allowing yourself to be so occupied and so unhappy about Mr. Elton’s marrying, Harriet, is the strongest reproach you can make me. You could not give me a greater reproof for the mistake I fell into. It was all my doing, I know. I have not forgotten it, I assure you.—Deceived myself, I did very miserably deceive you— and it will be a painful reflection to me for ever. Do not imagine me in danger of forgetting it.’
“哈丽特，你让自己如此忙碌，对埃尔顿先生的结婚如此不满，这是你对我最强烈的责备。对于我所犯的错误，你无法给予我更大的责备。这都是我做的，我知道。我没有忘记，我向你保证。——欺骗了我自己，我也非常悲惨地欺骗了你——这对我来说将是永远的痛苦反思。不要想象我有忘记它的危险。

Harriet felt this too much to utter more than a few words of eager exclamation. Emma continued,
哈丽雅特对此深有感触，只能急切地感叹几句。艾玛继续说道，

‘I have not said, exert yourself Harriet for my sake; think less, talk less of Mr. Elton for my sake; because for your own sake rather, I would wish it to be done, for the sake of what is more important than my comfort, a habit of self-command in you, a consideration of what is your duty, an attention to propriety, an endeavour to avoid the suspicions of others, to save your health and credit, and restore your tranquillity. These are the motives which I have been pressing on you. They are very important—and sorry I am that you cannot feel them sufficiently to act upon them. My being saved from pain is a very secondary consideration. I want you to save yourself from greater pain. Perhaps I may sometimes have felt that Harriet would not forget what was due—or rather what would be kind by me.’
“我没有说过，为了我，哈丽特要努力；为了我，少想、少说埃尔顿先生；因为我希望这样做是为了你自己，为了比我的舒适更重要的事情，为了让你养成自我控制的习惯，考虑你的职责，注意礼节，努力避免别人的怀疑，保全自己的健康和信用，恢复内心的平静。这些就是我一直强加给你们的动机。它们非常重要——很抱歉，您无法充分感受到它们并采取行动。我从痛苦中得救是一个非常次要的考虑因素。我希望你能避免更大的痛苦。也许有时我会觉得哈丽特不会忘记应得的事情——或者更确切地说，不会忘记我的善意。

This appeal to her affections did more than all the rest. The idea of wanting gratitude and consideration for Miss Woodhouse, whom she really loved extremely, made her wretched for a while, and when the violence of grief was comforted away, still remained powerful enough to prompt to what was right and support her in it very tolerably.
这种对她感情的呼吁比其他任何事情都更有效。想要对伍德豪斯小姐表示感激和关心，因为她真的非常爱她，这让她一度感到痛苦，当悲伤的暴力被抚平后，她仍然有足够的力量促使她做正确的事，并非常支持她。可以忍受。

‘You, who have been the best friend I ever had in my life— Want gratitude to you!—Nobody is equal to you!—I care for nobody as I do for you!—Oh! Miss Woodhouse, how ungrateful I have been!’
“你，是我一生中最好的朋友——我要感谢你！——没有人能与你平等！——我关心任何人，就像我关心你一样！——哦！伍德豪斯小姐，我真是忘恩负义啊！

Such expressions, assisted as they were by every thing that look and manner could do, made Emma feel that she had never loved Harriet so well, nor valued her affection so highly before.
这样的表情，再加上一切外表和举止的帮助，让艾玛觉得她以前从未如此爱过哈丽特，也从未如此重视过她的感情。

‘There is no charm equal to tenderness of heart,’ said she afterwards to herself. ‘There is nothing to be compared to it. Warmth and tenderness of heart, with an affectionate, open manner, will beat all the clearness of head in the world, for attraction, I am sure it will. It is tenderness of heart which makes my dear father so generally beloved—which gives Isabella all her popularity.— I have it not—but I know how to prize and respect it.—Harriet is my superior in all the charm and all the felicity it gives. Dear Harriet!—I would not change you for the clearest-headed, longest-sighted, best-judging female breathing. Oh! the coldness of a Jane Fairfax!—Harriet is worth a hundred such—And for a wife— a sensible man’s wife—it is invaluable. I mention no names; but happy the man who changes Emma for Harriet!’
“没有什么魅力能与内心的温柔相媲美，”她后来对自己说。 ‘没有什么可以与之相比。内心的温暖和温柔，加上深情、开放的态度，将击败世界上所有清醒的头脑，因为吸引力，我相信它会的。正是内心的温柔，让我亲爱的父亲受到如此普遍的爱戴——这让伊莎贝拉深受人们的喜爱。——我没有——但我知道如何珍惜和尊重它。——在所有的魅力和所有的幸福方面，哈丽特都比我优越。它给。亲爱的哈丽特！——我不会把你变成头脑最清醒、目光最远、判断力最敏锐的女性呼吸。哦！简·费尔法克斯的冷酷！——哈丽特抵得上一百个这样的——而对于一个妻子——一个明智的男人的妻子——这是无价的。我没有提及任何名字；但为哈丽特改变艾玛的人真是太幸福了！”

Chapter XIV
第十四章

Mrs. Elton was first seen at church: but though devotion might be interrupted, curiosity could not be satisfied by a bride in a pew, and it must be left for the visits in form which were then to be paid, to settle whether she were very pretty indeed, or only rather pretty, or not pretty at all.
埃尔顿夫人第一次出现在教堂：虽然虔诚可能会被打断，但坐在长凳上的新娘无法满足好奇心，必须留待随后进行的正式拜访，以确定她是否是确实非常漂亮，或者只是相当漂亮，或者根本不漂亮。

Emma had feelings, less of curiosity than of pride or propriety, to make her resolve on not being the last to pay her respects; and she made a point of Harriet’s going with her, that the worst of the business might be gone through as soon as possible.
爱玛有一种感觉，与其说是出于好奇，不如说是出于骄傲或礼节，她决定不成为最后一个向她致敬的人。她特意让哈丽特和她一起去，这样最糟糕的事情可能会尽快过去。

She could not enter the house again, could not be in the same room to which she had with such vain artifice retreated three months ago, to lace up her boot, without recollecting. A thousand vexatious thoughts would recur. Compliments, charades, and horrible blunders; and it was not to be supposed that poor Harriet should not be recollecting too; but she behaved very well, and was only rather pale and silent. The visit was of course short; and there was so much embarrassment and occupation of mind to shorten it, that Emma would not allow herself entirely to form an opinion of the lady, and on no account to give one, beyond the nothing-meaning terms of being ‘elegantly dressed, and very pleasing.’
她不能再进这所房子，不能再回到三个月前她为了系靴带而徒劳地退到的那个房间，而她却记不得了。一千个令人恼火的想法会再次出现。赞美、猜谜语和可怕的错误；可怜的哈丽特也不能不回忆起来。但她表现得很好，只是脸色苍白，沉默寡言。这次访问当然很短。爱玛实在是太尴尬了，而且还费尽心力去缩短它，以至于爱玛不允许自己完全对这位女士形成自己的看法，除了“穿着优雅、非常令人愉快。

She did not really like her. She would not be in a hurry to find fault, but she suspected that there was no elegance;—ease, but not elegance.— She was almost sure that for a young woman, a stranger, a bride, there was too much ease. Her person was rather good; her face not unpretty; but neither feature, nor air, nor voice, nor manner, were elegant. Emma thought at least it would turn out so.
她其实并不喜欢她。她不会急于挑剔，但她怀疑这里没有优雅；——轻松，但不优雅。——她几乎可以肯定，对于一个年轻女子，一个陌生人，一个新娘来说，有太多的轻松。她的人品还是不错的。她的脸并不难看；但无论是容貌、神态、声音还是举止，都不优雅。艾玛认为至少结果会是这样。

As for Mr. Elton, his manners did not appear—but no, she would not permit a hasty or a witty word from herself about his manners. It was an awkward ceremony at any time to be receiving wedding visits, and a man had need be all grace to acquit himself well through it. The woman was better off; she might have the assistance of fine clothes, and the privilege of bashfulness, but the man had only his own good sense to depend on; and when she considered how peculiarly unlucky poor Mr. Elton was in being in the same room at once with the woman he had just married, the woman he had wanted to marry, and the woman whom he had been expected to marry, she must allow him to have the right to look as little wise, and to be as much affectedly, and as little really easy as could be.
至于埃尔顿先生，他的举止并没有表现出来——但是不，她不允许自己对他的举止发表任何仓促或俏皮的话。在任何时候，接待婚礼参观都是一个尴尬的仪式，一个男人需要非常优雅才能通过这个仪式很好地表现自己。女人的处境更好了。她可能有漂亮衣服的帮助，也有羞涩的特权，但这个男人只能依靠他自己的判断力。当她想到可怜的埃尔顿先生是多么不幸，他同时与他刚刚结婚的女人、他想娶的女人以及他预计要结婚的女人同在一个房间里时，她必须允许他有权表现得尽可能不明智，也有权表现得尽可能做作，也有权表现得尽可能不轻松。

‘Well, Miss Woodhouse,’ said Harriet, when they had quitted the house, and after waiting in vain for her friend to begin; ‘Well, Miss Woodhouse, (with a gentle sigh,) what do you think of her?— Is not she very charming?’
“好吧，伍德豪斯小姐，”当他们离开家，徒劳地等待她的朋友开始之后，哈丽特说道。 “好吧，伍德豪斯小姐，（轻轻地叹了口气）你觉得她怎么样？——她不是很迷人吗？”

There was a little hesitation in Emma’s answer.
艾玛的回答有些犹豫。

‘Oh! yes—very—a very pleasing young woman.’
'哦！是的——非常——一个非常讨人喜欢的年轻女人。”

‘I think her beautiful, quite beautiful.’
“我觉得她很漂亮，非常漂亮。”

‘Very nicely dressed, indeed; a remarkably elegant gown.’
“确实，穿着非常漂亮；一件非常优雅的礼服。

‘I am not at all surprized that he should have fallen in love.’
“他竟然坠入爱河，我一点也不感到惊讶。”

‘Oh! no—there is nothing to surprize one at all.—A pretty fortune; and she came in his way.’
'哦！不——没有什么值得惊讶的。——一笔相当大的财富；她挡住了他的路。

‘I dare say,’ returned Harriet, sighing again, ‘I dare say she was very much attached to him.’
“我敢说，”哈丽雅特又叹了口气，“我敢说她非常依恋他。”

‘Perhaps she might; but it is not every man’s fate to marry the woman who loves him best. Miss Hawkins perhaps wanted a home, and thought this the best offer she was likely to have.’
“也许她可能会；但并不是每个男人都有命运娶到最爱他的女人。霍金斯小姐也许想要一个家，并认为这是她可能得到的最好的报价。

‘Yes,’ said Harriet earnestly, ‘and well she might, nobody could ever have a better. Well, I wish them happy with all my heart. And now, Miss Woodhouse, I do not think I shall mind seeing them again. He is just as superior as ever;—but being married, you know, it is quite a different thing. No, indeed, Miss Woodhouse, you need not be afraid; I can sit and admire him now without any great misery. To know that he has not thrown himself away, is such a comfort!— She does seem a charming young woman, just what he deserves. Happy creature! He called her ‘Augusta.’ How delightful!’
“是的，”哈丽雅特认真地说，“好吧，她可能会，没有人能拥有更好的。”嗯，我衷心祝愿他们幸福。现在，伍德豪斯小姐，我想我不介意再次见到他们。他一如既往地优越；——但是结婚了，你知道，那就是完全不同的事情了。不，确实如此，伍德豪斯小姐，你不必害怕；我现在可以坐下来欣赏他，而不会感到任何巨大的痛苦。知道他没有自暴自弃，真是一种安慰！——她看起来确实是一个迷人的年轻女子，这是他应得的。快乐的生物！他称她为“奥古斯塔”。多么令人愉快啊！

When the visit was returned, Emma made up her mind. She could then see more and judge better. From Harriet’s happening not to be at Hartfield, and her father’s being present to engage Mr. Elton, she had a quarter of an hour of the lady’s conversation to herself, and could composedly attend to her; and the quarter of an hour quite convinced her that Mrs. Elton was a vain woman, extremely well satisfied with herself, and thinking much of her own importance; that she meant to shine and be very superior, but with manners which had been formed in a bad school, pert and familiar; that all her notions were drawn from one set of people, and one style of living; that if not foolish she was ignorant, and that her society would certainly do Mr. Elton no good.
当回访时，艾玛做出了决定。这样她就可以看到更多并做出更好的判断。由于哈丽雅特碰巧不在哈特菲尔德，而她父亲又在场与埃尔顿先生交往，因此她有一刻钟的时间与那位女士交谈，可以平静地照顾她；因为她没有在哈特菲尔德，而是在她父亲的陪伴下与埃尔顿先生交谈。一刻钟的时间让她确信，埃尔顿夫人是个虚荣的女人，对自己非常满意，而且很看重自己的重要性。她本想表现出色，出人头地，但她的举止却是在一所糟糕的学校里养成的，傲慢而熟悉。她所有的观念都来自于一组人和一种生活方式；如果她不是愚蠢的话，那就是无知，她的交往肯定不会给埃尔顿先生带来任何好处。

Harriet would have been a better match. If not wise or refined herself, she would have connected him with those who were; but Miss Hawkins, it might be fairly supposed from her easy conceit, had been the best of her own set. The rich brother-in-law near Bristol was the pride of the alliance, and his place and his carriages were the pride of him.
哈里特本来是更合适的选择。如果她自己不够聪明或文雅，她就会把他和那些聪明的人联系起来。但霍金斯小姐，从她的自负来看，可以合理地认为，她是她自己那群人中最好的。布里斯托尔附近那位富有的姐夫是联盟的骄傲，他的地位和马车也是他的骄傲。

The very first subject after being seated was Maple Grove, ‘My brother Mr. Suckling’s seat;’—a comparison of Hartfield to Maple Grove. The grounds of Hartfield were small, but neat and pretty; and the house was modern and well-built. Mrs. Elton seemed most favourably impressed by the size of the room, the entrance, and all that she could see or imagine. ‘Very like Maple Grove indeed!—She was quite struck by the likeness!—That room was the very shape and size of the morning-room at Maple Grove; her sister’s favourite room.’— Mr. Elton was appealed to.—‘Was not it astonishingly like?— She could really almost fancy herself at Maple Grove.’
入座后的第一个主题是枫树丛，“我兄弟萨克林先生的座位”——哈特菲尔德与枫树丛的比较。哈特菲尔德的场地虽小，但整洁漂亮。房子很现代，而且建造得很好。房间的大小、入口以及她能看到或想象到的一切似乎给埃尔顿夫人留下了最深刻的印象。 “确实非常像枫树丛！——她对这种相似感到非常震惊！——那个房间的形状和大小与枫树丛的起居室一模一样；但它的形状和大小与枫树丛的起居室一模一样。”她姐姐最喜欢的房间。”——埃尔顿先生被吸引了。——“这不是令人惊讶吗？——她几乎可以想象自己在枫林。”

‘And the staircase—You know, as I came in, I observed how very like the staircase was; placed exactly in the same part of the house. I really could not help exclaiming! I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, it is very delightful to me, to be reminded of a place I am so extremely partial to as Maple Grove. I have spent so many happy months there! (with a little sigh of sentiment). A charming place, undoubtedly. Every body who sees it is struck by its beauty; but to me, it has been quite a home. Whenever you are transplanted, like me, Miss Woodhouse, you will understand how very delightful it is to meet with any thing at all like what one has left behind. I always say this is quite one of the evils of matrimony.’
“还有楼梯——你知道，当我进来时，我观察到楼梯是多么的像；完全放置在房子的同一部分。我实在忍不住感叹！我向你保证，伍德豪斯小姐，让我想起枫林这样一个我非常偏爱的地方，我感到非常高兴。我在那里度过了很多快乐的几个月！ （带着一点感伤的叹息）。毫无疑问，这是一个迷人的地方。每个看到它的人都会被它的美丽所震撼；但对我来说，它已经是一个家了。每当你像我一样被移植时，伍德豪斯小姐，你就会明白，遇到任何像一个人留下的东西是多么令人高兴。我总是说这是婚姻的罪恶之一。

Emma made as slight a reply as she could; but it was fully sufficient for Mrs. Elton, who only wanted to be talking herself.
艾玛尽可能轻描淡写地回答道。但这对埃尔顿夫人来说已经足够了，她只想自言自语。

‘So extremely like Maple Grove! And it is not merely the house— the grounds, I assure you, as far as I could observe, are strikingly like. The laurels at Maple Grove are in the same profusion as here, and stand very much in the same way—just across the lawn; and I had a glimpse of a fine large tree, with a bench round it, which put me so exactly in mind! My brother and sister will be enchanted with this place. People who have extensive grounds themselves are always pleased with any thing in the same style.’
“非常像枫树林！而且不仅仅是房子——我向你保证，据我观察，场地也惊人地相似。枫树林的月桂树和这里一样茂盛，而且排列方式也非常相似——就在草坪对面；我瞥见了一棵漂亮的大树，树周围有一张长凳，这让我的记忆如此清晰！我的兄弟姐妹一定会对这个地方着迷的。本身有广泛基础的人总是对任何相同风格的东西感到满意。

Emma doubted the truth of this sentiment. She had a great idea that people who had extensive grounds themselves cared very little for the extensive grounds of any body else; but it was not worth while to attack an error so double-dyed, and therefore only said in reply,
艾玛怀疑这种情绪的真实性。她有一个很好的想法，即那些自己拥有广阔土地的人很少关心其他人的广阔土地；但不值得去攻击如此双重的错误，因此只在答复中说：

‘When you have seen more of this country, I am afraid you will think you have overrated Hartfield. Surry is full of beauties.’
‘当你更多地了解这个国家时，恐怕你会认为你高估了哈特菲尔德。萨里到处都是美女。

‘Oh! yes, I am quite aware of that. It is the garden of England, you know. Surry is the garden of England.’
'哦！是的，我很清楚这一点。你知道，这是英国的花园。萨里是英格兰的花园。”

‘Yes; but we must not rest our claims on that distinction. Many counties, I believe, are called the garden of England, as well as Surry.’
'是的;但我们决不能把我们的主张建立在这种区别之上。我相信，许多县都被称为英格兰花园，萨里也不例外。

‘No, I fancy not,’ replied Mrs. Elton, with a most satisfied smile.’ I never heard any county but Surry called so.’
“不，我想不是，”埃尔顿夫人带着最满意的微笑回答道。“除了萨里之外，我从来没有听说过任何一个县这么叫过。”

Emma was silenced.
艾玛沉默了。

‘My brother and sister have promised us a visit in the spring, or summer at farthest,’ continued Mrs. Elton; ‘and that will be our time for exploring. While they are with us, we shall explore a great deal, I dare say. They will have their barouche-landau, of course, which holds four perfectly; and therefore, without saying any thing of our carriage, we should be able to explore the different beauties extremely well. They would hardly come in their chaise, I think, at that season of the year. Indeed, when the time draws on, I shall decidedly recommend their bringing the barouche-landau; it will be so very much preferable. When people come into a beautiful country of this sort, you know, Miss Woodhouse, one naturally wishes them to see as much as possible; and Mr. Suckling is extremely fond of exploring. We explored to King’s-Weston twice last summer, in that way, most delightfully, just after their first having the barouche-landau. You have many parties of that kind here, I suppose, Miss Woodhouse, every summer?’
“我的兄弟姐妹答应我们在春天来拜访我们，最多是夏天，”埃尔顿夫人继续说道。 “那将是我们探索的时间。”我敢说，当他们和我们在一起时，我们将探索很多东西。当然，他们会拥有四轮马车，可以完美容纳四个人。因此，不用说我们的举止，我们应该能够很好地探索不同的美丽。我想，在一年中的那个季节，他们几乎不会坐着马车来。事实上，当时间临近时，我会坚决建议他们带上四轮四轮马车。这将是非常可取的。当人们来到这样一个美丽的国家时，你知道，伍德豪斯小姐，人们自然希望他们能看到尽可能多的东西；萨克林先生非常喜欢探索。去年夏天，我们两次去国王韦斯顿探险，最令人愉快的是，就在他们第一次拥有四轮马车之后。我想，伍德豪斯小姐，每年夏天你们这里都会举办很多这样的聚会吧？

‘No; not immediately here. We are rather out of distance of the very striking beauties which attract the sort of parties you speak of; and we are a very quiet set of people, I believe; more disposed to stay at home than engage in schemes of pleasure.’
'不;不立即在这里。我们距离那些吸引你所说的那种聚会的非常引人注目的美女很远。我相信，我们是一群非常安静的人；更愿意呆在家里而不是从事享乐计划。

‘Ah! there is nothing like staying at home for real comfort. Nobody can be more devoted to home than I am. I was quite a proverb for it at Maple Grove. Many a time has Selina said, when she has been going to Bristol, ‘I really cannot get this girl to move from the house. I absolutely must go in by myself, though I hate being stuck up in the barouche-landau without a companion; but Augusta, I believe, with her own good-will, would never stir beyond the park paling.’ Many a time has she said so; and yet I am no advocate for entire seclusion. I think, on the contrary, when people shut themselves up entirely from society, it is a very bad thing; and that it is much more advisable to mix in the world in a proper degree, without living in it either too much or too little. I perfectly understand your situation, however, Miss Woodhouse— (looking towards Mr. Woodhouse), Your father’s state of health must be a great drawback. Why does not he try Bath?—Indeed he should. Let me recommend Bath to you. I assure you I have no doubt of its doing Mr. Woodhouse good.’
'啊！没有什么比呆在家里更能获得真正的舒适了。没有人比我更忠于家了。在枫林，我的这句话已经成为了一句谚语。当塞琳娜去布里斯托尔时，她多次说过，‘我真的无法让这个女孩搬出房子。我绝对必须自己进去，尽管我讨厌被困在马车里没有同伴； “但奥古斯塔，我相信，出于她自己的善意，她永远不会走出公园的栅栏。”她已经说过很多次了。但我并不提倡完全隐居。我认为，相反，当人们完全将自己与社会隔绝时，这是一件非常糟糕的事情；更明智的做法是适当地融入这个世界，但不要在其中生活太多或太少。我完全理解你的处境，不过，伍德豪斯小姐——（看向伍德豪斯先生），你父亲的健康状况一定是一个很大的缺点。他为什么不试试巴斯呢？——他确实应该这么做。让我向您推荐巴斯。我向你保证，我毫不怀疑这对伍德豪斯先生有好处。

‘My father tried it more than once, formerly; but without receiving any benefit; and Mr. Perry, whose name, I dare say, is not unknown to you, does not conceive it would be at all more likely to be useful now.’
“我父亲以前不止一次尝试过；但没有获得任何利益；佩里先生，我敢说，你对他的名字并不陌生，他认为它现在根本不会更有用处。

‘Ah! that’s a great pity; for I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, where the waters do agree, it is quite wonderful the relief they give. In my Bath life, I have seen such instances of it! And it is so cheerful a place, that it could not fail of being of use to Mr. Woodhouse’s spirits, which, I understand, are sometimes much depressed. And as to its recommendations to you, I fancy I need not take much pains to dwell on them. The advantages of Bath to the young are pretty generally understood. It would be a charming introduction for you, who have lived so secluded a life; and I could immediately secure you some of the best society in the place. A line from me would bring you a little host of acquaintance; and my particular friend, Mrs. Partridge, the lady I have always resided with when in Bath, would be most happy to shew you any attentions, and would be the very person for you to go into public with.’
'啊！这是一个很大的遗憾；因为我向你保证，伍德豪斯小姐，在水流交汇的地方，它们所带来的缓解是非常美妙的。在我的巴斯生活中，我见过这样的事例！这是一个如此令人愉快的地方，对伍德豪斯先生的精神肯定很有用，据我所知，他的精神有时非常沮丧。至于它给你的建议，我想我不需要花太多精力去详细阐述它们。巴斯对年轻人的好处是众所周知的。对于过着与世隔绝的生活的你来说，这将是一次迷人的介绍。我可以立即为您安排当地最好的社交活动。我的一句话就能让你们结识一些人；我特别的朋友，帕特里奇夫人，我在巴斯时一直和她住在一起，她会很乐意向您表示任何关注，并且是您公开场合的最佳人选。

It was as much as Emma could bear, without being impolite. The idea of her being indebted to Mrs. Elton for what was called an introduction—of her going into public under the auspices of a friend of Mrs. Elton’s—probably some vulgar, dashing widow, who, with the help of a boarder, just made a shift to live!— The dignity of Miss Woodhouse, of Hartfield, was sunk indeed!
这是艾玛所能忍受的，但又不失礼貌。她的想法是感谢埃尔顿夫人的所谓介绍——她在埃尔顿夫人的一位朋友的赞助下进入公众视野——可能是某个粗俗、潇洒的寡妇，她在一位寄宿生的帮助下，只是改变了生活！——哈特菲尔德的伍德豪斯小姐的尊严确实沉没了！

She restrained herself, however, from any of the reproofs she could have given, and only thanked Mrs. Elton coolly; ‘but their going to Bath was quite out of the question; and she was not perfectly convinced that the place might suit her better than her father.’ And then, to prevent farther outrage and indignation, changed the subject directly.
然而，她克制住了自己，没有提出任何她本可以提出的责备，只是冷冷地感谢了埃尔顿夫人。 “但是他们去巴斯是完全不可能的；她并不完全相信这个地方可能比她父亲更适合她。”然后，为了防止进一步的愤怒和愤慨，她直接改变了话题。

‘I do not ask whether you are musical, Mrs. Elton. Upon these occasions, a lady’s character generally precedes her; and Highbury has long known that you are a superior performer.’
“我不是问你是否有音乐天赋，埃尔顿夫人。在这些场合，女士的性格通常优先于她。海布里早就知道你是一名出色的表演者。

‘Oh! no, indeed; I must protest against any such idea. A superior performer!—very far from it, I assure you. Consider from how partial a quarter your information came. I am doatingly fond of music—passionately fond;—and my friends say I am not entirely devoid of taste; but as to any thing else, upon my honour my performance is mediocre to the last degree. You, Miss Woodhouse, I well know, play delightfully. I assure you it has been the greatest satisfaction, comfort, and delight to me, to hear what a musical society I am got into. I absolutely cannot do without music. It is a necessary of life to me; and having always been used to a very musical society, both at Maple Grove and in Bath, it would have been a most serious sacrifice. I honestly said as much to Mr. E. when he was speaking of my future home, and expressing his fears lest the retirement of it should be disagreeable; and the inferiority of the house too—knowing what I had been accustomed to—of course he was not wholly without apprehension. When he was speaking of it in that way, I honestly said that the world I could give up—parties, balls, plays—for I had no fear of retirement. Blessed with so many resources within myself, the world was not necessary to me. I could do very well without it. To those who had no resources it was a different thing; but my resources made me quite independent. And as to smaller-sized rooms than I had been used to, I really could not give it a thought. I hoped I was perfectly equal to any sacrifice of that description. Certainly I had been accustomed to every luxury at Maple Grove; but I did assure him that two carriages were not necessary to my happiness, nor were spacious apartments. ‘But,’ said I, ‘to be quite honest, I do not think I can live without something of a musical society. I condition for nothing else; but without music, life would be a blank to me.’’
'哦！不，确实如此；我必须抗议任何这样的想法。一个出色的表演者！——我向你保证，远非如此。考虑一下你的信息有多么不完整。我非常喜欢音乐——狂热地喜欢；——我的朋友们说我并非完全没有品味；但至于其他方面，以我的名誉担保，我的表现实在是平庸至极。我很清楚，伍德豪斯小姐，你玩得很开心。我向你们保证，听到我加入了这样一个音乐社会，对我来说是最大的满足、安慰和高兴。我绝对不能没有音乐。它对我来说是生活的必需品；无论是在枫树林还是在巴斯，我一直都习惯了一个非常音乐化的社会，这将是一个最严重的牺牲。当 E 先生谈到我未来的家时，我诚实地对他说了同样的话，并表达了他的担忧，以免它的退役会令人不快。还有房子的劣势——知道我已经习惯了——当然他也不是完全没有忧虑。当他这样说的时候，我诚实地说，我可以放弃这个世界——聚会、舞会、戏剧——因为我不害怕退休。由于我内心拥有如此多的资源，世界对我来说不再是必需的。没有它我也可以做得很好。对于那些没有资源的人来说，这是另一回事。但我的资源使我相当独立。至于比我以前住过的房间更小的，我真的无法考虑。我希望我完全可以承受这种牺牲。当然，我已经习惯了枫树林的一切奢华。但我确实向他保证，我的幸福并不需要两辆马车，宽敞的公寓也不是必要的。 “但是，”我说，“老实说，我认为没有音乐社团我就活不下去。”我没有别的条件；但如果没有音乐，生活对我来说将是一片空白。’’

‘We cannot suppose,’ said Emma, smiling, ‘that Mr. Elton would hesitate to assure you of there being a very musical society in Highbury; and I hope you will not find he has outstepped the truth more than may be pardoned, in consideration of the motive.’
“我们不能假设，”艾玛微笑着说，“埃尔顿先生会犹豫是否向您保证海布里有一个非常音乐的社团；因为我们知道，海布里有一个非常有音乐性的社团。”考虑到他的动机，我希望你不会发现他的做法超出了事实的范围，这是可以原谅的。

‘No, indeed, I have no doubts at all on that head. I am delighted to find myself in such a circle. I hope we shall have many sweet little concerts together. I think, Miss Woodhouse, you and I must establish a musical club, and have regular weekly meetings at your house, or ours. Will not it be a good plan? If we exert ourselves, I think we shall not be long in want of allies. Something of that nature would be particularly desirable for me, as an inducement to keep me in practice; for married women, you know— there is a sad story against them, in general. They are but too apt to give up music.’
“不，确实，我对此一点也不怀疑。我很高兴发现自己身处这样一个圈子。我希望我们能一起举办许多甜蜜的小型音乐会。我想，伍德豪斯小姐，你和我必须建立一个音乐俱乐部，并每周定期在你家或我们家举行会议。这难道不是一个好计划吗？如果我们努力奋斗，我想我们很快就会缺少盟友。这种性质的东西对我来说是特别想要的，作为让我坚持实践的诱因；对于已婚女性来说，你知道——总的来说，她们有一个悲伤的故事。他们太容易放弃音乐了。

‘But you, who are so extremely fond of it—there can be no danger, surely?’
“但是你这么喜欢它——肯定不会有危险吧？”

‘I should hope not; but really when I look around among my acquaintance, I tremble. Selina has entirely given up music—never touches the instrument—though she played sweetly. And the same may be said of Mrs. Jeffereys—Clara Partridge, that was—and of the two Milmans, now Mrs. Bird and Mrs. James Cooper; and of more than I can enumerate. Upon my word it is enough to put one in a fright. I used to be quite angry with Selina; but really I begin now to comprehend that a married woman has many things to call her attention. I believe I was half an hour this morning shut up with my housekeeper.’
“我希望不会；但当我环顾周围的熟人时，我真的会颤抖。塞琳娜（Selina）完全放弃了音乐，从未碰过乐器，尽管她弹得很好听。同样的情况也适用于杰弗里斯夫人——也就是克拉拉·帕特里奇——以及两个米尔曼夫妇，即现在的伯德夫人和詹姆斯·库珀夫人。以及我无法列举的更多。照我的话来说，这足以让人感到恐惧。我曾经对Selina很生气；但我现在确实开始理解，已婚妇女有很多事情需要引起她的注意。我想今天早上我和我的管家关了半个小时。”

‘But every thing of that kind,’ said Emma, ‘will soon be in so regular a train—‘
“但是这类事情，”艾玛说，“很快就会出现在这样的火车上——”

‘Well,’ said Mrs. Elton, laughing, ‘we shall see.’
“好吧，”埃尔顿夫人笑着说，“我们拭目以待吧。”

Emma, finding her so determined upon neglecting her music, had nothing more to say; and, after a moment’s pause, Mrs. Elton chose another subject.
艾玛发现她如此坚决地忽视了她的音乐，便无话可说。停顿了一会儿，埃尔顿夫人选择了另一个话题。

‘We have been calling at Randalls,’ said she, ‘and found them both at home; and very pleasant people they seem to be. I like them extremely. Mr. Weston seems an excellent creature— quite a first-rate favourite with me already, I assure you. And she appears so truly good—there is something so motherly and kind-hearted about her, that it wins upon one directly. She was your governess, I think?’
“我们一直在兰德尔斯拜访，”她说，“发现他们都在家；他们看起来是非常令人愉快的人。我非常喜欢他们。韦斯顿先生似乎是一位出色的人——我向你保证，他已经是我最喜欢的人了。她看起来真的很善良——她身上有一种母性和善良的感觉，这直接赢得了人们的喜爱。我想她是你的家庭教师吧？

Emma was almost too much astonished to answer; but Mrs. Elton hardly waited for the affirmative before she went on.
艾玛惊讶得几乎无法回答。但埃尔顿夫人没等得到肯定的答复就继续说道。

‘Having understood as much, I was rather astonished to find her so very lady-like! But she is really quite the gentlewoman.’
‘明白了这么多之后，我很惊讶地发现她是如此的淑女！但她确实是一位非常淑女的人。

‘Mrs. Weston’s manners,’ said Emma, ‘were always particularly good. Their propriety, simplicity, and elegance, would make them the safest model for any young woman.’
'太太。艾玛说，韦斯顿的举止总是特别好。她们的得体、简洁和优雅，将使她们成为任何年轻女性最安全的典范。

‘And who do you think came in while we were there?’
“你认为我们在那里的时候谁进来了？”

Emma was quite at a loss. The tone implied some old acquaintance— and how could she possibly guess?
艾玛很茫然。这语气暗示着某个老熟人——她怎么可能猜得到呢？

‘Knightley!’ continued Mrs. Elton; ‘Knightley himself!—Was not it lucky?—for, not being within when he called the other day, I had never seen him before; and of course, as so particular a friend of Mr. E.’s, I had a great curiosity. ‘My friend Knightley’ had been so often mentioned, that I was really impatient to see him; and I must do my caro sposo the justice to say that he need not be ashamed of his friend. Knightley is quite the gentleman. I like him very much. Decidedly, I think, a very gentleman-like man.’
“奈特利！”埃尔顿夫人继续说道。 “奈特利本人！——这不是很幸运吗？——因为那天他打电话来时我并不在里面，所以我以前从未见过他；我从来没有见过他。”当然，作为 E 先生如此特别的朋友，我非常好奇。人们经常提到“我的朋友奈特利”，我实在是迫不及待地想见到他。我必须公正地说，我的卡罗·斯波索不必为他的朋友感到羞耻。奈特利是一位非常绅士的人。我非常喜欢他。我认为，他无疑是一个非常绅士的人。”

Happily, it was now time to be gone. They were off; and Emma could breathe.
令人高兴的是，现在是离开的时候了。他们出发了；艾玛可以呼吸了。

‘Insufferable woman!’ was her immediate exclamation. ‘Worse than I had supposed. Absolutely insufferable! Knightley!—I could not have believed it. Knightley!—never seen him in her life before, and call him Knightley!—and discover that he is a gentleman! A little upstart, vulgar being, with her Mr. E., and her caro sposo, and her resources, and all her airs of pert pretension and underbred finery. Actually to discover that Mr. Knightley is a gentleman! I doubt whether he will return the compliment, and discover her to be a lady. I could not have believed it! And to propose that she and I should unite to form a musical club! One would fancy we were bosom friends! And Mrs. Weston!— Astonished that the person who had brought me up should be a gentlewoman! Worse and worse. I never met with her equal. Much beyond my hopes. Harriet is disgraced by any comparison. Oh! what would Frank Churchill say to her, if he were here? How angry and how diverted he would be! Ah! there I am— thinking of him directly. Always the first person to be thought of! How I catch myself out! Frank Churchill comes as regularly into my mind!’—
“令人难以忍受的女人！”她立即感叹道。 ‘比我想象的还要糟糕。绝对无法忍受！奈特利！——我简直不敢相信。奈特利！——她以前从没见过他，就叫他奈特利吧！——然后发现他是一位绅士！一个小暴发户，粗俗的人，有她的E先生，她的卡罗·斯波索，她的资源，以及她所有的自命不凡的神态和未受教养的华丽。居然发现奈特利先生是一位绅士！我怀疑他是否会回敬她，并发现她是一位女士。我简直不敢相信！并提议我和她联合起来组建一个音乐俱乐部！人们会以为我们是知音！还有韦斯顿夫人！——令人惊讶的是，抚养我长大的人居然是一位淑女！越来越差。我从未见过与她平等的人。远远超出我的希望。任何比较，哈丽特都会感到羞愧。哦！如果弗兰克·丘吉尔在这里，他会对她说什么？他会多么生气、多么烦恼啊！啊!我就在那里——直接想着他。总是第一个想到的人！我怎么发现自己了！弗兰克·丘吉尔经常出现在我的脑海中！”——

All this ran so glibly through her thoughts, that by the time her father had arranged himself, after the bustle of the Eltons’ departure, and was ready to speak, she was very tolerably capable of attending.
所有这一切都在她的脑海中清晰地浮现，以至于当她的父亲在埃尔顿一家匆忙离开后安排好自己并准备好讲话时，她完全有能力参加。

‘Well, my dear,’ he deliberately began, ‘considering we never saw her before, she seems a very pretty sort of young lady; and I dare say she was very much pleased with you. She speaks a little too quick. A little quickness of voice there is which rather hurts the ear. But I believe I am nice; I do not like strange voices; and nobody speaks like you and poor Miss Taylor. However, she seems a very obliging, pretty-behaved young lady, and no doubt will make him a very good wife. Though I think he had better not have married. I made the best excuses I could for not having been able to wait on him and Mrs. Elton on this happy occasion; I said that I hoped I should in the course of the summer. But I ought to have gone before. Not to wait upon a bride is very remiss. Ah! it shews what a sad invalid I am! But I do not like the corner into Vicarage Lane.’
“嗯，亲爱的，”他故意开始说道，“考虑到我们以前从未见过她，她看起来是一位非常漂亮的年轻女士；我敢说她对你非常满意。她说话有点太快了。语速有点快，有点伤耳朵。但我相信我是善良的；我不喜欢陌生的声音；没有人像你和可怜的泰勒小姐一样说话。不过，她看上去是一位非常贤惠、乖巧的小姐，毫无疑问会让他成为一个很好的妻子。虽然我认为他最好不要结婚。我为没能在这个欢乐的时刻侍候他和埃尔顿夫人找了最好的借口。我说我希望在暑假期间能这么做。但我早该去的。不侍候新娘是非常失职的。啊!这表明我是一个多么可悲的病人！但我不喜欢进入牧师巷的拐角处。”

‘I dare say your apologies were accepted, sir. Mr. Elton knows you.’
“我敢说你的道歉已经被接受了，先生。埃尔顿先生认识你。

‘Yes: but a young lady—a bride—I ought to have paid my respects to her if possible. It was being very deficient.’
“是的：但是一位年轻的女士——一位新娘——如果可能的话，我应该向她表示敬意。这是非常缺乏的。

‘But, my dear papa, you are no friend to matrimony; and therefore why should you be so anxious to pay your respects to a bride? It ought to be no recommendation to you. It is encouraging people to marry if you make so much of them.’
“但是，我亲爱的爸爸，你不是婚姻的朋友；那么，你为什么要如此急切地向新娘表示敬意呢？应该不会给你推荐。如果你对他们如此重视，那就是在鼓励人们结婚。”

‘No, my dear, I never encouraged any body to marry, but I would always wish to pay every proper attention to a lady—and a bride, especially, is never to be neglected. More is avowedly due to her. A bride, you know, my dear, is always the first in company, let the others be who they may.’
“不，亲爱的，我从不鼓励任何人结婚，但我总是希望对一位女士给予适当的关注——尤其是新娘，永远不能被忽视。更多的功劳显然是她的。亲爱的，你知道，新娘永远是陪伴中的第一个，其他人就随他们吧。

‘Well, papa, if this is not encouragement to marry, I do not know what is. And I should never have expected you to be lending your sanction to such vanity-baits for poor young ladies.’
“好吧，爸爸，如果这都不是鼓励结婚的话，我不知道什么才算了。”我从来没想到你会批准这些可怜的年轻女士的虚荣诱饵。

‘My dear, you do not understand me. This is a matter of mere common politeness and good-breeding, and has nothing to do with any encouragement to people to marry.’
‘亲爱的，你不了解我。这只是一般的礼貌和良好教养的问题，与鼓励人们结婚无关。

Emma had done. Her father was growing nervous, and could not understand her. Her mind returned to Mrs. Elton’s offences, and long, very long, did they occupy her.
艾玛已经做到了。她的父亲越来越紧张，无法理解她的意思。她的思绪又回到了埃尔顿夫人的罪行上，这些罪行困扰了她很长时间。

Chapter XV
第十五章

Emma was not required, by any subsequent discovery, to retract her ill opinion of Mrs. Elton. Her observation had been pretty correct. Such as Mrs. Elton appeared to her on this second interview, such she appeared whenever they met again,—self-important, presuming, familiar, ignorant, and ill-bred. She had a little beauty and a little accomplishment, but so little judgment that she thought herself coming with superior knowledge of the world, to enliven and improve a country neighbourhood; and conceived Miss Hawkins to have held such a place in society as Mrs. Elton’s consequence only could surpass.
随后的任何发现都没有要求艾玛收回她对埃尔顿夫人的不良看法。她的观察非常正确。正如埃尔顿夫人在第二次会见中所表现的那样，无论何时他们再次见面，她都表现得如此——自以为是、自命不凡、熟悉、无知、没有教养。她有一点美貌和一点成就，但缺乏判断力，以至于她认为自己对世界有着丰富的知识，是为了活跃和改善乡村地区；并认为霍金斯小姐在社会上的地位是埃尔顿夫人的影响力所能超越的。

There was no reason to suppose Mr. Elton thought at all differently from his wife. He seemed not merely happy with her, but proud. He had the air of congratulating himself on having brought such a woman to Highbury, as not even Miss Woodhouse could equal; and the greater part of her new acquaintance, disposed to commend, or not in the habit of judging, following the lead of Miss Bates’s good-will, or taking it for granted that the bride must be as clever and as agreeable as she professed herself, were very well satisfied; so that Mrs. Elton’s praise passed from one mouth to another as it ought to do, unimpeded by Miss Woodhouse, who readily continued her first contribution and talked with a good grace of her being ‘very pleasant and very elegantly dressed.’
没有理由认为埃尔顿先生的想法与他妻子完全不同。他似乎不仅对她感到高兴，而且感到自豪。他脸上洋溢着庆幸自己把这样一个女人带到海布里的神情，连伍德豪斯小姐都无法比拟。她的新认识的大部分人都愿意赞扬，或者不习惯评判，跟随贝茨小姐的善意，或者理所当然地认为新娘必须像她自称的那样聪明和讨人喜欢，非常满意；因此，埃尔顿夫人的赞美声理所当然地从一个嘴传到另一个嘴，不受伍德豪斯小姐的阻碍，伍德豪斯小姐欣然继续她的第一个贡献，并优雅地谈论她“非常令人愉快，穿着非常优雅”。

In one respect Mrs. Elton grew even worse than she had appeared at first. Her feelings altered towards Emma.—Offended, probably, by the little encouragement which her proposals of intimacy met with, she drew back in her turn and gradually became much more cold and distant; and though the effect was agreeable, the ill-will which produced it was necessarily increasing Emma’s dislike. Her manners, too—and Mr. Elton’s, were unpleasant towards Harriet. They were sneering and negligent. Emma hoped it must rapidly work Harriet’s cure; but the sensations which could prompt such behaviour sunk them both very much.—It was not to be doubted that poor Harriet’s attachment had been an offering to conjugal unreserve, and her own share in the story, under a colouring the least favourable to her and the most soothing to him, had in all likelihood been given also. She was, of course, the object of their joint dislike.— When they had nothing else to say, it must be always easy to begin abusing Miss Woodhouse; and the enmity which they dared not shew in open disrespect to her, found a broader vent in contemptuous treatment of Harriet.
从某个方面来说，埃尔顿夫人的情况比她一开始表现的还要糟糕。她对艾玛的感情发生了变化。——可能是因为她提出的亲密建议所受到的一点鼓励而受到冒犯，她又退缩了，逐渐变得更加冷漠和疏远；她对艾玛的态度发生了变化。尽管效果令人愉快，但由此产生的恶意必然会增加艾玛的厌恶感。她的举止——以及埃尔顿先生的举止——也让哈丽特感到不愉快。他们冷笑而疏忽。艾玛希望它能迅速治愈哈丽特。毫无疑问，可怜的哈丽特的依恋是对婚姻无保留的奉献，而她自己也参与了这个故事，在一种对她最不有利的色彩下，对他来说最安慰的，很可能也已经被给予了。当然，她是他们共同厌恶的对象。——当他们无话可说时，一定很容易开始辱骂伍德豪斯小姐；因为他们没有什么可说的。他们不敢公开表示对她的不尊重，而他们的敌意却在轻蔑地对待哈丽特上得到了更广泛的发泄。

Mrs. Elton took a great fancy to Jane Fairfax; and from the first. Not merely when a state of warfare with one young lady might be supposed to recommend the other, but from the very first; and she was not satisfied with expressing a natural and reasonable admiration— but without solicitation, or plea, or privilege, she must be wanting to assist and befriend her.—Before Emma had forfeited her confidence, and about the third time of their meeting, she heard all Mrs. Elton’s knight-errantry on the subject.—
埃尔顿夫人非常喜欢简·费尔法克斯。并从一开始。不仅是当与一位年轻女士的战争状态可能会推荐另一位女士时，而是从一开始就如此；她不满足于表达自然而合理的钦佩——但没有恳求、恳求或特权，她一定想帮助她并与她交朋友。——在艾玛失去信心之前，大约是他们第三次见面时，她听到了埃尔顿夫人在这个问题上的所有骑士精神。

‘Jane Fairfax is absolutely charming, Miss Woodhouse.—I quite rave about Jane Fairfax.—A sweet, interesting creature. So mild and ladylike—and with such talents!—I assure you I think she has very extraordinary talents. I do not scruple to say that she plays extremely well. I know enough of music to speak decidedly on that point. Oh! she is absolutely charming! You will laugh at my warmth—but, upon my word, I talk of nothing but Jane Fairfax.— And her situation is so calculated to affect one!—Miss Woodhouse, we must exert ourselves and endeavour to do something for her. We must bring her forward. Such talent as hers must not be suffered to remain unknown.—I dare say you have heard those charming lines of the poet,
“简·费尔法克斯绝对迷人，伍德豪斯小姐。——我非常喜欢简·费尔法克斯。——一个可爱、有趣的人。如此温和、淑女般的气质——而且还有这样的才华！——我向你保证，我认为她有非常非凡的才能。我毫不犹豫地说她弹得非常好。我对音乐有足够的了解，可以明确地谈论这一点。哦！她绝对迷人！你会嘲笑我的热情——但是，说实话，我只谈论简·费尔法克斯。——她的处境是如此刻意地影响着一个人！——伍德豪斯小姐，我们必须竭尽全力，努力为她做点什么。我们必须带她前进。像她这样的才华，决不能默默无闻。——我敢说，你一定听过诗人那些迷人的诗句，

‘Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,
“许多花朵生来就羞红不可见，

‘And waste its fragrance on the desert air.’
“并将其香气浪费在沙漠的空气中。”

We must not allow them to be verified in sweet Jane Fairfax.’
我们决不能让它们在可爱的简·费尔法克斯身上得到证实。”

‘I cannot think there is any danger of it,’ was Emma’s calm answer— ‘and when you are better acquainted with Miss Fairfax’s situation and understand what her home has been, with Colonel and Mrs. Campbell, I have no idea that you will suppose her talents can be unknown.’
“我不认为有任何危险，”艾玛平静地回答道，“当你更了解费尔法克斯小姐的情况并了解她的家以及坎贝尔上校和夫人时，我不知道你会这么做。”假设她的才华可能不为人知。

‘Oh! but dear Miss Woodhouse, she is now in such retirement, such obscurity, so thrown away.—Whatever advantages she may have enjoyed with the Campbells are so palpably at an end! And I think she feels it. I am sure she does. She is very timid and silent. One can see that she feels the want of encouragement. I like her the better for it. I must confess it is a recommendation to me. I am a great advocate for timidity—and I am sure one does not often meet with it.—But in those who are at all inferior, it is extremely prepossessing. Oh! I assure you, Jane Fairfax is a very delightful character, and interests me more than I can express.’
'哦！但亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，她现在已经退休了，默默无闻，被抛弃了。——无论她在坎贝尔家享受过什么好处，现在都明显结束了！我想她也感觉到了。我确信她会的。她非常胆怯，沉默寡言。人们可以看出她感到需要鼓励。我因此更喜欢她。我必须承认这是对我的推荐。我是胆怯的大力倡导者——我确信人们并不经常遇到这种事。——但对于那些完全低等的人来说，它却非常讨人喜欢。哦！我向你保证，简·费尔法克斯是一个非常令人愉快的角色，我对她的兴趣无法表达。

‘You appear to feel a great deal—but I am not aware how you or any of Miss Fairfax’s acquaintance here, any of those who have known her longer than yourself, can shew her any other attention than’—
“你看起来感觉很强烈——但我不知道你或费尔法克斯小姐在这里的任何一个熟人，任何一个比你认识她更久的人，能对她表现出什么其他的关注，而不是——”

‘My dear Miss Woodhouse, a vast deal may be done by those who dare to act. You and I need not be afraid. If we set the example, many will follow it as far as they can; though all have not our situations. We have carriages to fetch and convey her home, and we live in a style which could not make the addition of Jane Fairfax, at any time, the least inconvenient.—I should be extremely displeased if Wright were to send us up such a dinner, as could make me regret having asked more than Jane Fairfax to partake of it. I have no idea of that sort of thing. It is not likely that I should, considering what I have been used to. My greatest danger, perhaps, in housekeeping, may be quite the other way, in doing too much, and being too careless of expense. Maple Grove will probably be my model more than it ought to be— for we do not at all affect to equal my brother, Mr. Suckling, in income.—However, my resolution is taken as to noticing Jane Fairfax.— I shall certainly have her very often at my house, shall introduce her wherever I can, shall have musical parties to draw out her talents, and shall be constantly on the watch for an eligible situation. My acquaintance is so very extensive, that I have little doubt of hearing of something to suit her shortly.—I shall introduce her, of course, very particularly to my brother and sister when they come to us. I am sure they will like her extremely; and when she gets a little acquainted with them, her fears will completely wear off, for there really is nothing in the manners of either but what is highly conciliating.—I shall have her very often indeed while they are with me, and I dare say we shall sometimes find a seat for her in the barouche-landau in some of our exploring parties.’
“我亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，那些敢于采取行动的人可以做很多事情。你我都不必害怕。如果我们树立榜样，许多人就会尽力效仿；虽然都没有我们的情况。我们有马车来接她回家，而且我们的生活方式不会给简·费尔法克斯的到来带来任何不便。——如果赖特送我们这样的晚餐，我会非常不高兴。 ，这可能会让我后悔要求比简·费尔法克斯更多的人参与其中。我不知道那种事。考虑到我已经习惯了，我不太可能应该这么做。也许，我最大的危险是在做家务方面，可能恰恰相反，就是做得太多，而且对开支太粗心。枫树林可能会成为我的榜样，而不是应该的——因为我们根本不想在收入上与我的兄弟萨克林先生平等。——不过，我决定注意到简·费尔法克斯。——我当然会经常让她来我家，尽可能地介绍她，举办音乐派对来发挥她的才能，并不断留意合适的机会。我的熟人非常广泛，所以我毫不怀疑很快就会听到一些适合她的东西。——当然，当我的兄弟姐妹来到我们这里时，我会特别向他们介绍她。我相信他们会非常喜欢她；当她对他们有了一点了解时，她的恐惧就会完全消失，因为无论是哪种方式，除了高度和解之外，都没有什么。——当他们和我在一起时，我确实会经常和她在一起，而且我敢说我们有时会在我们的一些探险聚会中在马车上为她找到一个座位。

‘Poor Jane Fairfax!’—thought Emma.—‘You have not deserved this. You may have done wrong with regard to Mr. Dixon, but this is a punishment beyond what you can have merited!—The kindness and protection of Mrs. Elton!—‘Jane Fairfax and Jane Fairfax.’ Heavens! Let me not suppose that she dares go about, Emma Woodhouse-ing me!— But upon my honour, there seems no limits to the licentiousness of that woman’s tongue!’
“可怜的简·费尔法克斯！”艾玛想，“你不应该受到这样的对待。”你可能对迪克森先生做错了，但这是一种超出你应得的惩罚！——埃尔顿夫人的仁慈和保护！——“简·费尔法克斯和简·费尔法克斯。”天啊！让我别以为她敢到处乱搞，艾玛·伍德豪斯——我！——但是以我的名誉来说，那个女人的舌头似乎没有限度！

Emma had not to listen to such paradings again—to any so exclusively addressed to herself—so disgustingly decorated with a ‘dear Miss Woodhouse.’ The change on Mrs. Elton’s side soon afterwards appeared, and she was left in peace—neither forced to be the very particular friend of Mrs. Elton, nor, under Mrs. Elton’s guidance, the very active patroness of Jane Fairfax, and only sharing with others in a general way, in knowing what was felt, what was meditated, what was done.
艾玛再也不能听这样的游行了——听那些专门针对她自己的——如此令人厌恶地装饰着“亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐”。埃尔顿夫人这边的变化很快就出现了，她得到了平静——也没有被迫成为埃尔顿夫人非常特别的朋友，在埃尔顿夫人的指导下，也不是简·费尔法克斯非常积极的赞助人，并且只以一般的方式与他人分享，了解所感受到的，所思考的，所做的事情。

She looked on with some amusement.—Miss Bates’s gratitude for Mrs. Elton’s attentions to Jane was in the first style of guileless simplicity and warmth. She was quite one of her worthies— the most amiable, affable, delightful woman—just as accomplished and condescending as Mrs. Elton meant to be considered. Emma’s only surprize was that Jane Fairfax should accept those attentions and tolerate Mrs. Elton as she seemed to do. She heard of her walking with the Eltons, sitting with the Eltons, spending a day with the Eltons! This was astonishing!—She could not have believed it possible that the taste or the pride of Miss Fairfax could endure such society and friendship as the Vicarage had to offer.
她带着些许好笑地看着。——贝茨小姐对埃尔顿夫人对简的关心的感激之情是第一种朴实、简单和温暖的。她是她的值得尊敬的人之一——最和蔼可亲、和蔼可亲、令人愉快的女人——就像埃尔顿夫人被认为的那样多才多艺和居高临下。艾玛唯一感到惊讶的是，简·费尔法克斯竟然接受了这些关注并容忍了埃尔顿夫人，就像她看起来所做的那样。她听说她和埃尔顿一家一起散步，和埃尔顿一家坐在一起，和埃尔顿一家一起度过了一天！这太令人惊讶了！——她简直不敢相信费尔法克斯小姐的品位或骄傲能够承受住牧师住宅所提供的这样的社交和友谊。

‘She is a riddle, quite a riddle!’ said she.—‘To chuse to remain here month after month, under privations of every sort! And now to chuse the mortification of Mrs. Elton’s notice and the penury of her conversation, rather than return to the superior companions who have always loved her with such real, generous affection.’
“她是一个谜，真是一个谜！”她说，“她选择留在这里，一月又一月，承受着各种匮乏！现在，我们要选择埃尔顿夫人的关注和谈话的贫乏，而不是回到那些一直以如此真实、慷慨的感情爱着她的优越同伴们身边。

Jane had come to Highbury professedly for three months; the Campbells were gone to Ireland for three months; but now the Campbells had promised their daughter to stay at least till Midsummer, and fresh invitations had arrived for her to join them there. According to Miss Bates—it all came from her—Mrs. Dixon had written most pressingly. Would Jane but go, means were to be found, servants sent, friends contrived—no travelling difficulty allowed to exist; but still she had declined it!
简声称来到海布里已经三个月了。坎贝尔一家去爱尔兰三个月了。但现在坎贝尔夫妇答应他们的女儿至少要留到仲夏，并且新的邀请函也已经到来，邀请她去那里和他们一起去。据贝茨小姐说——这一切都来自于她——贝茨夫人。狄克逊写得最为紧迫。如果简愿意走，就要找到办法，派出仆人，安排朋友——不允许存在旅行困难；但她还是拒绝了！

‘She must have some motive, more powerful than appears, for refusing this invitation,’ was Emma’s conclusion. ‘She must be under some sort of penance, inflicted either by the Campbells or herself. There is great fear, great caution, great resolution somewhere.— She is not to be with the Dixons. The decree is issued by somebody. But why must she consent to be with the Eltons?—Here is quite a separate puzzle.’
“她拒绝这个邀请一定有某种动机，比表面上看起来更强大，”艾玛的结论是。 “她一定是在接受某种忏悔，要么是坎贝尔夫妇要么是她自己造成的。某处有极大的恐惧、极大的谨慎、极大的决心。——她不会和迪克森一家在一起。法令是由某人颁布的。但为什么她必须同意和埃尔顿一家在一起呢？——这是一个完全不同的谜题。

Upon her speaking her wonder aloud on that part of the subject, before the few who knew her opinion of Mrs. Elton, Mrs. Weston ventured this apology for Jane.
当她在少数知道她对埃尔顿夫人的看法的人面前大声说出她对这部分问题的疑惑时，韦斯顿夫人大胆地为简道歉。

‘We cannot suppose that she has any great enjoyment at the Vicarage, my dear Emma—but it is better than being always at home. Her aunt is a good creature, but, as a constant companion, must be very tiresome. We must consider what Miss Fairfax quits, before we condemn her taste for what she goes to.’
“我亲爱的艾玛，我们不能认为她在牧师住宅有什么大的乐趣——但这比总是待在家里要好。她的姨妈是个好人，但是，作为一个固定的伴侣，一定很累人。在我们谴责费尔法克斯小姐所做的事情之前，我们必须考虑一下她放弃了什么。

‘You are right, Mrs. Weston,’ said Mr. Knightley warmly, ‘Miss Fairfax is as capable as any of us of forming a just opinion of Mrs. Elton. Could she have chosen with whom to associate, she would not have chosen her. But (with a reproachful smile at Emma) she receives attentions from Mrs. Elton, which nobody else pays her.’
“你是对的，韦斯顿夫人，”奈特利先生热情地说，“费尔法克斯小姐和我们一样有能力对埃尔顿夫人形成公正的看法。如果她可以选择和谁交往，她就不会选择她。但是（对艾玛带着责备的微笑）她受到了埃尔顿夫人的关注，而没有其他人付钱给她。

Emma felt that Mrs. Weston was giving her a momentary glance; and she was herself struck by his warmth. With a faint blush, she presently replied,
艾玛感觉到韦斯顿夫人看了她一眼；她自己也被他的温暖所感动。她脸色微红，随即回答道：

‘Such attentions as Mrs. Elton’s, I should have imagined, would rather disgust than gratify Miss Fairfax. Mrs. Elton’s invitations I should have imagined any thing but inviting.’
“我本可以想象，像埃尔顿夫人那样的关注，费尔法克斯小姐宁可感到厌恶，也不会感到满意。我本以为埃尔顿夫人的邀请绝不会是邀请。

‘I should not wonder,’ said Mrs. Weston, ‘if Miss Fairfax were to have been drawn on beyond her own inclination, by her aunt’s eagerness in accepting Mrs. Elton’s civilities for her. Poor Miss Bates may very likely have committed her niece and hurried her into a greater appearance of intimacy than her own good sense would have dictated, in spite of the very natural wish of a little change.’
“我不会怀疑，”韦斯顿夫人说，“如果费尔法克斯小姐超出了她的意愿，因为她姨妈热切地接受埃尔顿夫人对她的礼貌，我不会感到奇怪。可怜的贝茨小姐很可能已经把她的侄女托付给了她，并催促她表现得比她自己的理智所要求的更加亲密，尽管她很自然地希望做出一点改变。

Both felt rather anxious to hear him speak again; and after a few minutes silence, he said,
两人都非常渴望听到他再次讲话。几分钟的沉默后，他说：

‘Another thing must be taken into consideration too—Mrs. Elton does not talk to Miss Fairfax as she speaks of her. We all know the difference between the pronouns he or she and thou, the plainest spoken amongst us; we all feel the influence of a something beyond common civility in our personal intercourse with each other— a something more early implanted. We cannot give any body the disagreeable hints that we may have been very full of the hour before. We feel things differently. And besides the operation of this, as a general principle, you may be sure that Miss Fairfax awes Mrs. Elton by her superiority both of mind and manner; and that, face to face, Mrs. Elton treats her with all the respect which she has a claim to. Such a woman as Jane Fairfax probably never fell in Mrs. Elton’s way before—and no degree of vanity can prevent her acknowledging her own comparative littleness in action, if not in consciousness.’
“还必须考虑另一件事——夫人。”当费尔法克斯小姐谈到她时，埃尔顿并没有跟她说话。我们都知道代词“他”和“你”之间的区别，这是我们中间最简单的说法。在我们彼此的个人交往中，我们都感受到了一种超越普通礼貌的东西的影响——一种更早植入的东西。我们不能向任何人发出令人不快的暗示，表明我们前一小时可能已经很饱了。我们对事物的感受不同。除了这一点的运作之外，作为一般原则，你可以肯定，费尔法克斯小姐因其卓越的思想和举止而令埃尔顿夫人惊叹不已。埃尔顿夫人面对面地对待她，给予了她应有的尊重。像简·费尔法克斯这样的女人以前可能从未妨碍过埃尔顿夫人——无论何种程度的虚荣心都无法阻止她承认自己在行动上（即使在意识上）相对渺小。

‘I know how highly you think of Jane Fairfax,’ said Emma. Little Henry was in her thoughts, and a mixture of alarm and delicacy made her irresolute what else to say.
“我知道你对简·费尔法克斯的评价有多高，”艾玛说。她心里想着小亨利，既惊慌又敏感，让她犹豫不决还要说什么。

‘Yes,’ he replied, ‘any body may know how highly I think of her.’
“是的，”他回答道，“任何人都知道我对她的评价有多高。”

‘And yet,’ said Emma, beginning hastily and with an arch look, but soon stopping—it was better, however, to know the worst at once— she hurried on—‘And yet, perhaps, you may hardly be aware yourself how highly it is. The extent of your admiration may take you by surprize some day or other.’
“然而，”艾玛急忙开口说道，脸上带着拱起的表情，但很快就停了下来——不过，最好还是立即知道最坏的情况——她继续说道——“然而，也许你自己可能很难意识到自己是如何做到这一点的。”确实如此。你的钦佩程度可能有一天会让你大吃一惊。

Mr. Knightley was hard at work upon the lower buttons of his thick leather gaiters, and either the exertion of getting them together, or some other cause, brought the colour into his face, as he answered,
奈特利先生正在努力地系他厚厚的皮革绑腿的下纽扣，要么是费力把它们扣在一起，要么是其他原因，他的脸色涨红了，他回答道：

‘Oh! are you there?—But you are miserably behindhand. Mr. Cole gave me a hint of it six weeks ago.’
'哦！你在吗？——但是你严重落后了。科尔先生六周前向我暗示了这一点。

He stopped.—Emma felt her foot pressed by Mrs. Weston, and did not herself know what to think. In a moment he went on—
他停了下来。——艾玛感到她的脚被韦斯顿太太压住了，她自己也不知道该怎么想。过了一会儿，他继续说道——

‘That will never be, however, I can assure you. Miss Fairfax, I dare say, would not have me if I were to ask her—and I am very sure I shall never ask her.’
“但是，我可以向你保证，那永远不会。”我敢说，如果我问费尔法克斯小姐，她不会接受我的——而且我非常确定我永远不会问她。

Emma returned her friend’s pressure with interest; and was pleased enough to exclaim,
艾玛饶有兴趣地回应了朋友的压力。并高兴地惊呼，

‘You are not vain, Mr. Knightley. I will say that for you.’
“你并不虚荣，奈特利先生。我会为你这么说。

He seemed hardly to hear her; he was thoughtful—and in a manner which shewed him not pleased, soon afterwards said,
他似乎几乎没有听见她说话。他若有所思——但他的态度却显得不高兴，不久之后说道：

‘So you have been settling that I should marry Jane Fairfax?’
“所以你已经决定让我嫁给简·费尔法克斯了？”

‘No indeed I have not. You have scolded me too much for match-making, for me to presume to take such a liberty with you. What I said just now, meant nothing. One says those sort of things, of course, without any idea of a serious meaning. Oh! no, upon my word I have not the smallest wish for your marrying Jane Fairfax or Jane any body. You would not come in and sit with us in this comfortable way, if you were married.’
‘不，我确实没有。你已经骂我太多了，我竟然敢和你做这样的事。我刚才说的话，没有任何意义。当然，人们说这些话时并没有任何严肃的意义。哦！不，我敢说，我对你嫁给简·费尔法克斯或简·任何人都没有丝毫的愿望。如果你结婚了，你就不会以这种舒适的方式进来和我们坐在一起。

Mr. Knightley was thoughtful again. The result of his reverie was, ‘No, Emma, I do not think the extent of my admiration for her will ever take me by surprize.—I never had a thought of her in that way, I assure you.’ And soon afterwards, ‘Jane Fairfax is a very charming young woman—but not even Jane Fairfax is perfect. She has a fault. She has not the open temper which a man would wish for in a wife.’
奈特利先生又陷入沉思了。他沉思的结果是，“不，艾玛，我认为我对她的钦佩程度不会让我感到惊讶。——我向你保证，我从来没有这样想过她。”不久之后”，“简·费尔法克斯是一位非常迷人的年轻女性，但即使是简·费尔法克斯也不是完美的。她有错。她没有男人所希望的妻子那样的开放脾气。

Emma could not but rejoice to hear that she had a fault. ‘Well,’ said she, ‘and you soon silenced Mr. Cole, I suppose?’
艾玛听到自己犯了错，不禁很高兴。 “好吧，”她说，“我猜你很快就让科尔先生闭嘴了？”

‘Yes, very soon. He gave me a quiet hint; I told him he was mistaken; he asked my pardon and said no more. Cole does not want to be wiser or wittier than his neighbours.’
‘是的，很快。他给了我一个安静的暗示；我告诉他他错了；他请求我原谅并没有再说什么。科尔不想比他的邻居更聪明或更机智。

‘In that respect how unlike dear Mrs. Elton, who wants to be wiser and wittier than all the world! I wonder how she speaks of the Coles— what she calls them! How can she find any appellation for them, deep enough in familiar vulgarity? She calls you, Knightley—what can she do for Mr. Cole? And so I am not to be surprized that Jane Fairfax accepts her civilities and consents to be with her. Mrs. Weston, your argument weighs most with me. I can much more readily enter into the temptation of getting away from Miss Bates, than I can believe in the triumph of Miss Fairfax’s mind over Mrs. Elton. I have no faith in Mrs. Elton’s acknowledging herself the inferior in thought, word, or deed; or in her being under any restraint beyond her own scanty rule of good-breeding. I cannot imagine that she will not be continually insulting her visitor with praise, encouragement, and offers of service; that she will not be continually detailing her magnificent intentions, from the procuring her a permanent situation to the including her in those delightful exploring parties which are to take place in the barouche-landau.’
“在这方面，多么不像亲爱的埃尔顿夫人，她想比全世界都更聪明、更机智！”我想知道她是如何谈论科尔斯的——她怎么称呼它们！她怎样才能为他们找到足够深的、熟悉的粗俗的称谓呢？她打电话给你，奈特利——她能为科尔先生做什么？因此，简·费尔法克斯接受她的礼貌并同意与她在一起，我并不感到惊讶。韦斯顿夫人，你的论点对我来说最重要。我更容易陷入摆脱贝茨小姐的诱惑，而不是相信费尔法克斯小姐的思想战胜了埃尔顿夫人。我不相信埃尔顿夫人会承认自己在思想、言语或行为上低人一等。或者她受到任何超出她自己缺乏良好教养的规则的限制。我无法想象她不会不断地用赞美、鼓励和提供服务来侮辱她的来访者。她不会不断地详细说明她的宏伟意图，从为她争取一个永久的职位，到让她参加那些将在马车上举行的令人愉快的探索派对。

‘Jane Fairfax has feeling,’ said Mr. Knightley—‘I do not accuse her of want of feeling. Her sensibilities, I suspect, are strong—and her temper excellent in its power of forbearance, patience, self-controul; but it wants openness. She is reserved, more reserved, I think, than she used to be—And I love an open temper. No—till Cole alluded to my supposed attachment, it had never entered my head. I saw Jane Fairfax and conversed with her, with admiration and pleasure always—but with no thought beyond.’
“简·费尔法克斯有感情，”奈特利先生说，“我并不指责她缺乏感情。我猜想，她的感情很强烈，而且她的脾气也很好，具有忍耐、耐心和自我控制的能力。但它需要开放。她很矜持，我想，比以前更矜持了——而且我喜欢开朗的脾气。不——直到科尔提到我所谓的依恋，它从来没有进入我的脑海。我见到了简·费尔法克斯，并与她交谈，心里总是充满钦佩和愉悦，但没有想到其他的事情。

‘Well, Mrs. Weston,’ said Emma triumphantly when he left them, ‘what do you say now to Mr. Knightley’s marrying Jane Fairfax?’
“好吧，韦斯顿夫人，”当他离开他们时，艾玛得意地说，“现在您对奈特利先生与简·费尔法克斯结婚有什么看法？”

‘Why, really, dear Emma, I say that he is so very much occupied by the idea of not being in love with her, that I should not wonder if it were to end in his being so at last. Do not beat me.’
“为什么，真的，亲爱的艾玛，我说他完全被不爱她的想法占据了，所以我不应该怀疑他是否最终会如此。别打我。

Chapter XVI
第十六章

Every body in and about Highbury who had ever visited Mr. Elton, was disposed to pay him attention on his marriage. Dinner-parties and evening-parties were made for him and his lady; and invitations flowed in so fast that she had soon the pleasure of apprehending they were never to have a disengaged day.
海布里及其周边每一个曾经拜访过埃尔顿先生的人都愿意关注他的婚姻。晚宴和晚会都是为他和他的夫人举办的。邀请函纷至沓来，她很快就高兴地意识到，他们永远不会有闲暇的一天。

‘I see how it is,’ said she. ‘I see what a life I am to lead among you. Upon my word we shall be absolutely dissipated. We really seem quite the fashion. If this is living in the country, it is nothing very formidable. From Monday next to Saturday, I assure you we have not a disengaged day!—A woman with fewer resources than I have, need not have been at a loss.’
“我明白是怎么回事了，”她说。 ‘我知道我在你们中间将过着怎样的生活。我保证我们会彻底消散。我们看起来确实很时尚。如果这是生活在乡下的话，那并没有什么可怕的。从下周一到周六，我向你们保证，我们不会有闲暇的一天！——一个资源比我少的女人，不必感到茫然。

No invitation came amiss to her. Her Bath habits made evening-parties perfectly natural to her, and Maple Grove had given her a taste for dinners. She was a little shocked at the want of two drawing rooms, at the poor attempt at rout-cakes, and there being no ice in the Highbury card-parties. Mrs. Bates, Mrs. Perry, Mrs. Goddard and others, were a good deal behind-hand in knowledge of the world, but she would soon shew them how every thing ought to be arranged. In the course of the spring she must return their civilities by one very superior party—in which her card-tables should be set out with their separate candles and unbroken packs in the true style—and more waiters engaged for the evening than their own establishment could furnish, to carry round the refreshments at exactly the proper hour, and in the proper order.
对她来说，邀请并没有错。她的洗澡习惯使晚会对她来说变得非常自然，而枫树林则让她尝到了晚餐的滋味。她对缺少两个客厅、糟糕的蛋糕尝试以及海布里的纸牌派对上没有冰块感到有点震惊。贝茨夫人、佩里夫人、戈达德夫人和其他人对世界的了解远远落后，但她很快就会向他们展示一切事情应该如何安排。在春天的过程中，她必须以一场非常高级的聚会来回报他们的礼貌——在聚会中，她的牌桌应该以真正的风格摆放着单独的蜡烛和完整的包装——晚上的服务员比他们自己的餐厅还要多可以在适当的时间、按照适当的顺序提供茶点。

Emma, in the meanwhile, could not be satisfied without a dinner at Hartfield for the Eltons. They must not do less than others, or she should be exposed to odious suspicions, and imagined capable of pitiful resentment. A dinner there must be. After Emma had talked about it for ten minutes, Mr. Woodhouse felt no unwillingness, and only made the usual stipulation of not sitting at the bottom of the table himself, with the usual regular difficulty of deciding who should do it for him.
与此同时，艾玛如果不在哈特菲尔德为埃尔顿一家吃一顿晚饭就不会满足。他们做的事不能比别人少，否则她就会受到令人厌恶的怀疑，并被认为会产生可怜的怨恨。晚餐一定有。艾玛谈论了十分钟后，伍德豪斯先生并没有感到不情愿，只是像往常一样规定自己不坐在桌子的最后，因为通常很难决定谁应该为他做这件事。

The persons to be invited, required little thought. Besides the Eltons, it must be the Westons and Mr. Knightley; so far it was all of course— and it was hardly less inevitable that poor little Harriet must be asked to make the eighth:—but this invitation was not given with equal satisfaction, and on many accounts Emma was particularly pleased by Harriet’s begging to be allowed to decline it. ‘She would rather not be in his company more than she could help. She was not yet quite able to see him and his charming happy wife together, without feeling uncomfortable. If Miss Woodhouse would not be displeased, she would rather stay at home.’ It was precisely what Emma would have wished, had she deemed it possible enough for wishing. She was delighted with the fortitude of her little friend—for fortitude she knew it was in her to give up being in company and stay at home; and she could now invite the very person whom she really wanted to make the eighth, Jane Fairfax.— Since her last conversation with Mrs. Weston and Mr. Knightley, she was more conscience-stricken about Jane Fairfax than she had often been.—Mr. Knightley’s words dwelt with her. He had said that Jane Fairfax received attentions from Mrs. Elton which nobody else paid her.
被邀请的人几乎不需要考虑。除了埃尔顿夫妇之外，肯定还有韦斯顿夫妇和奈特利先生；到目前为止，这一切都是理所当然的——而且几乎不可避免的是，可怜的小哈丽特必须被要求参加第八个：——但是这个邀请并没有得到同样的满意，而且从很多方面来说，艾玛对哈丽特的恳求感到特别高兴。允许拒绝它。 “她宁愿不和他在一起，因为她无能为力。”看到他和他那迷人而幸福的妻子在一起时，她还不能不感到不舒服。如果伍德豪斯小姐不会不高兴，她宁愿呆在家里。”这正是艾玛所希望的，如果她认为有足够的可能的话。她对她的小朋友的坚韧感到高兴——因为她知道，她的坚韧就是放弃与人交往而呆在家里的勇气；现在她可以邀请她真正想成为第八个的人了，简·费尔法克斯。——自从她上次与韦斯顿夫人和奈特利先生交谈以来，她对简·费尔法克斯比以往任何时候都更加感到良心不安。——先生。奈特莉的话一直萦绕在她的脑海里。他曾说过，简·费尔法克斯受到了埃尔顿夫人的关注，而其他人却没有付钱给她。

‘This is very true,’ said she, ‘at least as far as relates to me, which was all that was meant—and it is very shameful.—Of the same age— and always knowing her—I ought to have been more her friend.— She will never like me now. I have neglected her too long. But I will shew her greater attention than I have done.’
“这是千真万确的，”她说，“至少就我而言，这就是全部意思——而且这是非常可耻的。——同龄——而且总是认识她——我应该更了解她。”她的朋友。——她现在永远不会喜欢我了。我已经忽视她太久了。但我会比以前更加关注她。”

Every invitation was successful. They were all disengaged and all happy.— The preparatory interest of this dinner, however, was not yet over. A circumstance rather unlucky occurred. The two eldest little Knightleys were engaged to pay their grandpapa and aunt a visit of some weeks in the spring, and their papa now proposed bringing them, and staying one whole day at Hartfield—which one day would be the very day of this party.—His professional engagements did not allow of his being put off, but both father and daughter were disturbed by its happening so. Mr. Woodhouse considered eight persons at dinner together as the utmost that his nerves could bear— and here would be a ninth—and Emma apprehended that it would be a ninth very much out of humour at not being able to come even to Hartfield for forty-eight hours without falling in with a dinner-party.
每次邀请都成功。他们都很放松，都很高兴。——然而，这场晚宴的准备工作还没有结束。一件相当不幸的事发生了。两个最大的小奈特利夫妇约定在春天拜访他们的爷爷和姑妈几个星期，他们的爸爸现在提议带他们去，并在哈特菲尔德待上一整天——这一天就是这次聚会的日子。 ——他的职业约定不允许他被推迟，但父亲和女儿都对发生这样的事情感到不安。伍德豪斯先生认为八个人在一起吃晚饭是他的神经所能承受的极限——而这里将是第九个人——而艾玛担心这将是第九个人，因为甚至无法在四十岁的哈特菲尔德来一趟，这非常不幽默。 -八个小时没有参加晚宴。

She comforted her father better than she could comfort herself, by representing that though he certainly would make them nine, yet he always said so little, that the increase of noise would be very immaterial. She thought it in reality a sad exchange for herself, to have him with his grave looks and reluctant conversation opposed to her instead of his brother.
她对父亲的安慰比对自己的安慰还要好，她表示虽然他肯定会让他们变成九个，但他总是说得很少，噪音的增加是非常无关紧要的。她认为这对她自己来说实际上是一种悲伤的交换，让他以严肃的表情和不情愿的谈话反对她而不是他的兄弟。

The event was more favourable to Mr. Woodhouse than to Emma. John Knightley came; but Mr. Weston was unexpectedly summoned to town and must be absent on the very day. He might be able to join them in the evening, but certainly not to dinner. Mr. Woodhouse was quite at ease; and the seeing him so, with the arrival of the little boys and the philosophic composure of her brother on hearing his fate, removed the chief of even Emma’s vexation.
这次活动对伍德豪斯先生比对艾玛更有利。约翰·奈特利来了；但韦斯顿先生意外地被叫到城里，当天他必须缺席。晚上他也许可以和他们一起去，但肯定不能去吃晚饭。伍德豪斯先生很轻松。看到他如此，小男孩们的到来，以及她哥哥在听到他的命运后表现出的哲理镇定，甚至消除了艾玛的主要烦恼。

The day came, the party were punctually assembled, and Mr. John Knightley seemed early to devote himself to the business of being agreeable. Instead of drawing his brother off to a window while they waited for dinner, he was talking to Miss Fairfax. Mrs. Elton, as elegant as lace and pearls could make her, he looked at in silence— wanting only to observe enough for Isabella’s information—but Miss Fairfax was an old acquaintance and a quiet girl, and he could talk to her. He had met her before breakfast as he was returning from a walk with his little boys, when it had been just beginning to rain. It was natural to have some civil hopes on the subject, and he said,
这一天到来了，聚会准时集合，约翰·奈特利先生似乎很早就开始致力于讨人喜欢。当他们等待晚餐时，他没有把他的兄弟拉到窗边，而是在和费尔法克斯小姐交谈。他默默地看着埃尔顿夫人，她像蕾丝和珍珠一样优雅——只想充分观察以获取伊莎贝拉的信息——但费尔法克斯小姐是一个老熟人，是一个安静的女孩，他可以和她交谈。他在早餐前遇见了她，当时他正带着孩子们散步回来，当时天刚刚开始下雨。对这个问题抱有一些民间希望是很自然的，他说，

‘I hope you did not venture far, Miss Fairfax, this morning, or I am sure you must have been wet.—We scarcely got home in time. I hope you turned directly.’
“费尔法克斯小姐，我希望你今天早上没有走得太远，否则我肯定你一定被淋湿了。——我们几乎没有及时到家。我希望你直接转身。

‘I went only to the post-office,’ said she, ‘and reached home before the rain was much. It is my daily errand. I always fetch the letters when I am here. It saves trouble, and is a something to get me out. A walk before breakfast does me good.’
“我只去了邮局，”她说，“雨没下大就到家了。”这是我每天的任务。当我在这里的时候，我总是去取信。它省去了麻烦，而且是让我摆脱困境的东西。早餐前散步对我有好处。

‘Not a walk in the rain, I should imagine.’
“我想，这不是在雨中散步。”

‘No, but it did not absolutely rain when I set out.’
“没有，但我出发时并没有完全下雨。”

Mr. John Knightley smiled, and replied,
约翰·奈特利先生微笑着回答道：

‘That is to say, you chose to have your walk, for you were not six yards from your own door when I had the pleasure of meeting you; and Henry and John had seen more drops than they could count long before. The post-office has a great charm at one period of our lives. When you have lived to my age, you will begin to think letters are never worth going through the rain for.’
‘也就是说，你选择步行，因为当我有幸见到你时，你距离你家门还不到六码；亨利和约翰很久以前就看到了多得数不过来的水滴。邮局在我们人生的某个时期有着巨大的魅力。当你活到我这个年纪的时候，你就会开始认为信件根本不值得冒着雨去读。

There was a little blush, and then this answer,
有点脸红，然后这个答案，

‘I must not hope to be ever situated as you are, in the midst of every dearest connexion, and therefore I cannot expect that simply growing older should make me indifferent about letters.’
“我不希望永远像你一样，处于每一个最亲密的联系之中，因此我不能指望随着年龄的增长，我就会对信件漠不关心。”

‘Indifferent! Oh! no—I never conceived you could become indifferent. Letters are no matter of indifference; they are generally a very positive curse.’
'冷漠！哦！不——我没想到你会变得冷漠。信件无关紧要；它们通常是一个非常积极的诅咒。

‘You are speaking of letters of business; mine are letters of friendship.’
“你说的是商业信件；我的是友谊信。

‘I have often thought them the worst of the two,’ replied he coolly. ‘Business, you know, may bring money, but friendship hardly ever does.’
“我经常认为他们是两者中最糟糕的一个，”他冷静地回答道。 “你知道，生意可能会带来金钱，但友谊却很难带来金钱。”

‘Ah! you are not serious now. I know Mr. John Knightley too well— I am very sure he understands the value of friendship as well as any body. I can easily believe that letters are very little to you, much less than to me, but it is not your being ten years older than myself which makes the difference, it is not age, but situation. You have every body dearest to you always at hand, I, probably, never shall again; and therefore till I have outlived all my affections, a post-office, I think, must always have power to draw me out, in worse weather than to-day.’
'啊！你现在不是认真的。我太了解约翰·奈特利先生了——我确信他和其他人一样了解友谊的价值。我可以很容易地相信，信件对你来说微不足道，比对我来说少得多，但造成差异的并不是你比我大十岁，这不是年龄，而是情况。你身边总是有你最亲爱的每一个人，我，可能，再也不会了；因此，在我失去所有的感情之前，我想邮局一定有能力把我拉出来，即使天气比今天更糟糕。

‘When I talked of your being altered by time, by the progress of years,’ said John Knightley, ‘I meant to imply the change of situation which time usually brings. I consider one as including the other. Time will generally lessen the interest of every attachment not within the daily circle—but that is not the change I had in view for you. As an old friend, you will allow me to hope, Miss Fairfax, that ten years hence you may have as many concentrated objects as I have.’
“当我谈到你会被时间、岁月的流逝所改变时，”约翰·奈特利说，“我的意思是暗示时间通常会带来情况的变化。我认为其中一个包括另一个。时间通常会降低日常圈子之外的每一个依恋的兴趣——但这不是我为你设想的改变。作为一个老朋友，你会让我希望，费尔法克斯小姐，十年后你可能会拥有和我一样多的浓缩物品。

It was kindly said, and very far from giving offence. A pleasant ‘thank you’ seemed meant to laugh it off, but a blush, a quivering lip, a tear in the eye, shewed that it was felt beyond a laugh. Her attention was now claimed by Mr. Woodhouse, who being, according to his custom on such occasions, making the circle of his guests, and paying his particular compliments to the ladies, was ending with her—and with all his mildest urbanity, said,
这话是善意的，一点也没有冒犯的意思。一句愉快的“谢谢”似乎是为了一笑置之，但脸红、嘴唇颤抖、眼里含着泪水，表明这让人笑不出来。她的注意力现在被伍德豪斯先生吸引了，他按照他在这种场合的习惯，围着他的客人转了一圈，并向女士们致以特别的致意，最后以她为结束——并以他最温和的彬彬有礼，说。 ,

‘I am very sorry to hear, Miss Fairfax, of your being out this morning in the rain. Young ladies should take care of themselves.— Young ladies are delicate plants. They should take care of their health and their complexion. My dear, did you change your stockings?’
“费尔法克斯小姐，听说你今天早上在雨中外出，我感到非常遗憾。年轻女士要照顾好自己。——年轻女士是娇嫩的植物。他们应该照顾自己的健康和肤色。亲爱的，你换袜子了吗？

‘Yes, sir, I did indeed; and I am very much obliged by your kind solicitude about me.’
“是的，先生，我确实这么做了；”我非常感谢你对我的关心。

‘My dear Miss Fairfax, young ladies are very sure to be cared for.— I hope your good grand-mama and aunt are well. They are some of my very old friends. I wish my health allowed me to be a better neighbour. You do us a great deal of honour to-day, I am sure. My daughter and I are both highly sensible of your goodness, and have the greatest satisfaction in seeing you at Hartfield.’
“我亲爱的费尔法克斯小姐，年轻的女士们肯定会受到照顾。——我希望你的好奶奶和阿姨一切都好。他们是我的一些老朋友。我希望我的健康能让我成为一个更好的邻居。我相信你今天给我们带来了很大的荣誉。我和我的女儿都非常了解你的善良，并且对在哈特菲尔德见到你感到非常满意。

The kind-hearted, polite old man might then sit down and feel that he had done his duty, and made every fair lady welcome and easy.
这位心地善良、彬彬有礼的老人可能会坐下来，觉得自己已经尽到了自己的职责，让每一位美丽的女士都感到宾至如归。

By this time, the walk in the rain had reached Mrs. Elton, and her remonstrances now opened upon Jane.
这时，雨中散步的声音传到了埃尔顿夫人的耳中，她的抗议开始向简发起。

‘My dear Jane, what is this I hear?—Going to the post-office in the rain!—This must not be, I assure you.—You sad girl, how could you do such a thing?—It is a sign I was not there to take care of you.’
“我亲爱的简，我听到这是什么？——冒着雨去邮局！——这绝对不是，我向你保证。——你这个悲伤的女孩，你怎么能做这样的事？——这是一个征兆我不是来照顾你的。

Jane very patiently assured her that she had not caught any cold.
简很耐心地向她保证，她没有感冒。

‘Oh! do not tell me. You really are a very sad girl, and do not know how to take care of yourself.—To the post-office indeed! Mrs. Weston, did you ever hear the like? You and I must positively exert our authority.’
'哦！不要告诉我。你真是个很伤心的女孩，不懂得照顾自己。——确实是去邮局！韦斯顿夫人，您听过类似的话吗？你我必须积极发挥我们的权威。

‘My advice,’ said Mrs. Weston kindly and persuasively, ‘I certainly do feel tempted to give. Miss Fairfax, you must not run such risks.— Liable as you have been to severe colds, indeed you ought to be particularly careful, especially at this time of year. The spring I always think requires more than common care. Better wait an hour or two, or even half a day for your letters, than run the risk of bringing on your cough again. Now do not you feel that you had? Yes, I am sure you are much too reasonable. You look as if you would not do such a thing again.’
“我的建议是，”韦斯顿夫人和蔼而有说服力地说，“我确实很想给予。”费尔法克斯小姐，你千万不能冒这样的风险。——虽然你曾患过重感冒，但你确实应该特别小心，尤其是在每年的这个时候。我始终认为春天需要的不仅仅是普通的呵护。最好等一两个小时，甚至半天才能收到信，也不要冒着再次咳嗽的风险。现在你不觉得你已经做到了吗？是的，我确信你太理性了。你看起来好像不会再做这样的事了。”

‘Oh! she shall not do such a thing again,’ eagerly rejoined Mrs. Elton. ‘We will not allow her to do such a thing again:’— and nodding significantly—‘there must be some arrangement made, there must indeed. I shall speak to Mr. E. The man who fetches our letters every morning (one of our men, I forget his name) shall inquire for yours too and bring them to you. That will obviate all difficulties you know; and from us I really think, my dear Jane, you can have no scruple to accept such an accommodation.’
'哦！她不会再做这样的事了，”埃尔顿夫人急切地回答道。 “我们不会再让她做这样的事了：”——同时意味深长地点点头——“一定有什么安排，确实一定有。”我会和E先生说话。每天早上来取我们信件的人（我们的一个人，我忘记了他的名字）也会询问你的信件并将其带给你。这将消除你所知道的所有困难；我真的认为，我亲爱的简，你可以毫无顾忌地接受这样的安排。

‘You are extremely kind,’ said Jane; ‘but I cannot give up my early walk. I am advised to be out of doors as much as I can, I must walk somewhere, and the post-office is an object; and upon my word, I have scarcely ever had a bad morning before.’
“你真是太善良了，”简说。 “但我不能放弃早起的散步。建议我尽可能多到户外去，我必须步行去某个地方，而邮局就是一个对象；老实说，我以前几乎没有经历过一个糟糕的早晨。

‘My dear Jane, say no more about it. The thing is determined, that is (laughing affectedly) as far as I can presume to determine any thing without the concurrence of my lord and master. You know, Mrs. Weston, you and I must be cautious how we express ourselves. But I do flatter myself, my dear Jane, that my influence is not entirely worn out. If I meet with no insuperable difficulties therefore, consider that point as settled.’
“亲爱的简，别再说了。事情已经确定了，也就是说（做作地笑）我可以在没有得到我的主子和主人同意的情况下决定任何事情。你知道，韦斯顿夫人，你和我必须谨慎表达自己的意见。但亲爱的简，我确实沾沾自喜，我的影响力还没有完全消失。因此，如果我没有遇到无法克服的困难，就认为这一点已经解决了。

‘Excuse me,’ said Jane earnestly, ‘I cannot by any means consent to such an arrangement, so needlessly troublesome to your servant. If the errand were not a pleasure to me, it could be done, as it always is when I am not here, by my grandmama’s.’
“对不起，”简恳切地说，“我无论如何不能同意这样的安排，给您的仆人带来不必要的麻烦。如果我不喜欢这个差事，也可以由我的祖母来完成，就像我不在这里的时候一样。”

‘Oh! my dear; but so much as Patty has to do!—And it is a kindness to employ our men.’
'哦！亲爱的;但帕蒂必须做的事就这么多了！——雇佣我们的人是一种仁慈。

Jane looked as if she did not mean to be conquered; but instead of answering, she began speaking again to Mr. John Knightley.
简看上去并没有要被征服的意思；但她没有回答，而是又开始对约翰·奈特利先生说话。

‘The post-office is a wonderful establishment!’ said she.— ‘The regularity and despatch of it! If one thinks of all that it has to do, and all that it does so well, it is really astonishing!’
“邮局是一个很棒的机构！”她说，“它的规律性和寄送性！如果你想到它必须做的所有事情，而且它做得如此出色，那真是令人惊讶！

‘It is certainly very well regulated.’
“这当然受到很好的监管。”

‘So seldom that any negligence or blunder appears! So seldom that a letter, among the thousands that are constantly passing about the kingdom, is even carried wrong—and not one in a million, I suppose, actually lost! And when one considers the variety of hands, and of bad hands too, that are to be deciphered, it increases the wonder.’
‘很少出现任何疏忽或错误！在王国里不断传递的数千封信中，很少有一封信被错误地携带——我想，真正丢失的信函不到百万分之一！当人们考虑到要破译的各种牌，甚至是坏牌时，就会增加奇迹。

‘The clerks grow expert from habit.—They must begin with some quickness of sight and hand, and exercise improves them. If you want any farther explanation,’ continued he, smiling, ‘they are paid for it. That is the key to a great deal of capacity. The public pays and must be served well.’
“办事员从习惯中成长为专家。——他们必须首先具备一定的眼力和手感，而锻炼可以提高他们的能力。”如果你想要任何进一步的解释，”他微笑着继续说道，“他们是有报酬的。这是获得大量容量的关键。公众付出了代价，并且必须得到良好的服务。”

The varieties of handwriting were farther talked of, and the usual observations made.
进一步讨论了笔迹的种类，并进行了通常的观察。

‘I have heard it asserted,’ said John Knightley, ‘that the same sort of handwriting often prevails in a family; and where the same master teaches, it is natural enough. But for that reason, I should imagine the likeness must be chiefly confined to the females, for boys have very little teaching after an early age, and scramble into any hand they can get. Isabella and Emma, I think, do write very much alike. I have not always known their writing apart.’
“我听说有人断言，”约翰·奈特利说，“同一类型的笔迹在一个家庭中经常盛行。而同一个师父所教的地方，这是很自然的。但出于这个原因，我想这种相似之处肯定主要局限于女性，因为男孩从小就很少接受教育，并且争先恐后地进入他们能得到的任何人手中。我认为伊莎贝拉和艾玛的写作确实非常相似。我并不总是知道他们的写作有何不同。

‘Yes,’ said his brother hesitatingly, ‘there is a likeness. I know what you mean—but Emma’s hand is the strongest.’
“是的，”他哥哥犹豫地说，“有一个相似之处。”我知道你的意思——但艾玛的手是最有力的。

‘Isabella and Emma both write beautifully,’ said Mr. Woodhouse; ‘and always did. And so does poor Mrs. Weston’—with half a sigh and half a smile at her.
“伊莎贝拉和艾玛都写得很漂亮，”伍德豪斯先生说。 ’而且一直都是这样。可怜的韦斯顿夫人也是如此——对她半叹息半微笑。

‘I never saw any gentleman’s handwriting’—Emma began, looking also at Mrs. Weston; but stopped, on perceiving that Mrs. Weston was attending to some one else—and the pause gave her time to reflect, ‘Now, how am I going to introduce him?—Am I unequal to speaking his name at once before all these people? Is it necessary for me to use any roundabout phrase?—Your Yorkshire friend— your correspondent in Yorkshire;—that would be the way, I suppose, if I were very bad.—No, I can pronounce his name without the smallest distress. I certainly get better and better.—Now for it.’
“我从来没有见过任何一位绅士的笔迹。”艾玛开始说道，同时也看着韦斯顿太太。但在意识到韦斯顿夫人正在照顾其他人时，她停了下来——这一停顿让她有时间反思，“现在，我要如何介绍他呢？——我是否无法在所有这些人面前立即说出他的名字？” ？我有必要使用任何迂回的短语吗？——你的约克郡朋友——你在约克郡的通讯员；——我想，如果我很糟糕的话，那就是这样。——不，我可以毫无痛苦地念出他的名字。我当然会变得越来越好。——现在就开始吧。

Mrs. Weston was disengaged and Emma began again—‘Mr. Frank Churchill writes one of the best gentleman’s hands I ever saw.’
韦斯顿夫人不再参与，艾玛又开始说道：“韦斯顿先生。”弗兰克·丘吉尔写下了我所见过的最好的绅士之手之一。”

‘I do not admire it,’ said Mr. Knightley. ‘It is too small— wants strength. It is like a woman’s writing.’
“我并不钦佩它，”奈特利先生说。 ‘它太小了——需要力量。这就像女人的写作。”

This was not submitted to by either lady. They vindicated him against the base aspersion. ‘No, it by no means wanted strength— it was not a large hand, but very clear and certainly strong. Had not Mrs. Weston any letter about her to produce?’ No, she had heard from him very lately, but having answered the letter, had put it away.
两位女士都没有接受这一点。他们为他平反了卑鄙的诽谤。 “不，它绝不需要力量——它不是一只大手，但非常清晰，而且确实有力。韦斯顿太太没有写任何关于她的信吗？”没有，她最近才收到他的信，但回了信之后，就把它收起来了。

‘If we were in the other room,’ said Emma, ‘if I had my writing-desk, I am sure I could produce a specimen. I have a note of his.— Do not you remember, Mrs. Weston, employing him to write for you one day?’
“如果我们在另一个房间，”艾玛说，“如果我有写字台，我确信我可以制作一个样本。我有他的一张便条。——韦斯顿夫人，你不记得有一天雇用他为你写信吗？

‘He chose to say he was employed’—
“他选择说他受雇了”——

‘Well, well, I have that note; and can shew it after dinner to convince Mr. Knightley.’
“好吧，好吧，我有那张纸条；并可以在晚餐后展示以说服奈特利先生。”

‘Oh! when a gallant young man, like Mr. Frank Churchill,’ said Mr. Knightley dryly, ‘writes to a fair lady like Miss Woodhouse, he will, of course, put forth his best.’
'哦！奈特利先生干巴巴地说，“当像弗兰克·丘吉尔先生这样英勇的年轻人写信给像伍德豪斯小姐这样的美丽女士时，他当然会尽力而为。”

Dinner was on table.—Mrs. Elton, before she could be spoken to, was ready; and before Mr. Woodhouse had reached her with his request to be allowed to hand her into the dining-parlour, was saying—
晚餐已经上桌了。——夫人。在与她交谈之前，埃尔顿已经准备好了。伍德豪斯先生还没来得及请求她把她送进餐厅，他就说——

‘Must I go first? I really am ashamed of always leading the way.’
‘我必须先走吗？我真的为自己总是带路而感到羞愧。

Jane’s solicitude about fetching her own letters had not escaped Emma. She had heard and seen it all; and felt some curiosity to know whether the wet walk of this morning had produced any. She suspected that it had; that it would not have been so resolutely encountered but in full expectation of hearing from some one very dear, and that it had not been in vain. She thought there was an air of greater happiness than usual—a glow both of complexion and spirits.
爱玛也没有逃过简对取信的担忧。这一切她都听过，也见过；我很想知道今天早上湿漉漉的散步是否产生了任何影响。她怀疑是的。如果不是完全期待某个非常亲爱的人的来信，就不会如此坚决地遇到这种情况，而且这并没有白费。她觉得这里有一种比平时更加​​幸福的气氛——面色和精神都焕发着光彩。

She could have made an inquiry or two, as to the expedition and the expense of the Irish mails;—it was at her tongue’s end— but she abstained. She was quite determined not to utter a word that should hurt Jane Fairfax’s feelings; and they followed the other ladies out of the room, arm in arm, with an appearance of good-will highly becoming to the beauty and grace of each.
她本来可以询问一两次，关于这次远征和爱尔兰邮件的费用；——她已经无话可说了——但她弃权了。她决心不说任何伤害简·费尔法克斯感情的话。她们手挽手地跟着其他女士走出房间，脸上的表情与她们的美丽和优雅十分相配。

Chapter XVII
第十七章

When the ladies returned to the drawing-room after dinner, Emma found it hardly possible to prevent their making two distinct parties;— with so much perseverance in judging and behaving ill did Mrs. Elton engross Jane Fairfax and slight herself. She and Mrs. Weston were obliged to be almost always either talking together or silent together. Mrs. Elton left them no choice. If Jane repressed her for a little time, she soon began again; and though much that passed between them was in a half-whisper, especially on Mrs. Elton’s side, there was no avoiding a knowledge of their principal subjects: The post-office—catching cold—fetching letters—and friendship, were long under discussion; and to them succeeded one, which must be at least equally unpleasant to Jane—inquiries whether she had yet heard of any situation likely to suit her, and professions of Mrs. Elton’s meditated activity.
当女士们吃完晚饭回到客厅时，艾玛发现几乎不可能阻止她们举办两个不同的聚会；埃尔顿夫人如此坚持不懈地做出判断并表现得不好，她全神贯注于简·费尔法克斯，却轻视了自己。她和韦斯顿夫人几乎总是要么一起说话，要么一起沉默。埃尔顿夫人让他们别无选择。如果简压抑了她一会儿，她很快就会又开始；虽然他们之间的很多事情都是半耳语，尤其是埃尔顿夫人这边，但不可避免地要了解他们的主要话题：邮局——感冒——取信——和友谊，长期以来一直在讨论中。 ;他们接踵而至的是，这肯定至少让简同样不愉快——询问她是否听说过任何可能适合她的情况，以及埃尔顿夫人沉思活动的表白。

‘Here is April come!’ said she, ‘I get quite anxious about you. June will soon be here.’
“四月来了！”她说，“我很担心你。”六月很快就会到来。

‘But I have never fixed on June or any other month—merely looked forward to the summer in general.’
“但我从未确定过六月或任何其他月份——只是期待整个夏天。”

‘But have you really heard of nothing?’
“但是你真的什么都没听说过吗？”

‘I have not even made any inquiry; I do not wish to make any yet.’
“我什至没有做过任何询问；我还不想做任何事情。

‘Oh! my dear, we cannot begin too early; you are not aware of the difficulty of procuring exactly the desirable thing.’
'哦！亲爱的，我们不能太早开始；你不知道获得想要的东西是多么困难。”

‘I not aware!’ said Jane, shaking her head; ‘dear Mrs. Elton, who can have thought of it as I have done?’
“我不知道！”简摇着头说道。 “亲爱的埃尔顿夫人，谁能像我一样想到这一点呢？”

‘But you have not seen so much of the world as I have. You do not know how many candidates there always are for the first situations. I saw a vast deal of that in the neighbourhood round Maple Grove. A cousin of Mr. Suckling, Mrs. Bragge, had such an infinity of applications; every body was anxious to be in her family, for she moves in the first circle. Wax-candles in the schoolroom! You may imagine how desirable! Of all houses in the kingdom Mrs. Bragge’s is the one I would most wish to see you in.’
“但你没有像我那样见识过那么多的世界。你不知道第一种情况总是有多少候选人。我在枫树林附近看到了很多这样的事情。萨克林先生的表弟布拉格夫人有如此多的应用。每个人都渴望加入她的家庭，因为她在第一圈。教室里有蜡烛！你可以想象这是多么令人向往！在王国里所有的房子里，布拉格夫人的房子是我最想见到你的一栋。

‘Colonel and Mrs. Campbell are to be in town again by midsummer,’ said Jane. ‘I must spend some time with them; I am sure they will want it;—afterwards I may probably be glad to dispose of myself. But I would not wish you to take the trouble of making any inquiries at present.’
“坎贝尔上校和夫人将在仲夏时再次进城，”简说。 “我必须花一些时间和他们在一起；我确信他们会想要它；——之后我可能会很高兴地处置自己。但我现在不希望你费心去询问。”

‘Trouble! aye, I know your scruples. You are afraid of giving me trouble; but I assure you, my dear Jane, the Campbells can hardly be more interested about you than I am. I shall write to Mrs. Partridge in a day or two, and shall give her a strict charge to be on the look-out for any thing eligible.’
'麻烦！是的，我知道你的顾忌。你怕给我添麻烦；但我向你保证，亲爱的简，坎贝尔一家对你的兴趣不会比我更浓厚。我将在一两天内写信给帕特里奇太太，并严格要求她留意任何符合条件的事情。

‘Thank you, but I would rather you did not mention the subject to her; till the time draws nearer, I do not wish to be giving any body trouble.’
“谢谢你，但我宁愿你不要向她提起这个话题；在时间临近之前，我不想给身体带来任何麻烦。

‘But, my dear child, the time is drawing near; here is April, and June, or say even July, is very near, with such business to accomplish before us. Your inexperience really amuses me! A situation such as you deserve, and your friends would require for you, is no everyday occurrence, is not obtained at a moment’s notice; indeed, indeed, we must begin inquiring directly.’
“但是，我亲爱的孩子，时间已经临近了；现在是四月，六月，甚至七月也已经很近了，我们面前还有这样的事情要完成。你的缺乏经验真让我感到好笑！像你应得的、你的朋友为你所要求的这种情况不是每天都会发生的，也不是一瞬间就能得到的；确实，确实，我们必须开始直接询问。

‘Excuse me, ma’am, but this is by no means my intention; I make no inquiry myself, and should be sorry to have any made by my friends. When I am quite determined as to the time, I am not at all afraid of being long unemployed. There are places in town, offices, where inquiry would soon produce something—Offices for the sale— not quite of human flesh—but of human intellect.’
“对不起，女士，但这绝不是我的本意。我自己没有询问，如果我的朋友提出任何询问，我应该感到遗憾。当我很确定时间的时候，我一点也不害怕长期失业。城里有一些地方，比如办公室，调查很快就会产生一些东西——待售的办公室——不完全是人肉——而是人类的智慧。

‘Oh! my dear, human flesh! You quite shock me; if you mean a fling at the slave-trade, I assure you Mr. Suckling was always rather a friend to the abolition.’
'哦！我亲爱的人肉！你真让我震惊；如果你指的是对奴隶贸易的热衷，我向你保证，萨克林先生一直是废除奴隶制的朋友。

‘I did not mean, I was not thinking of the slave-trade,’ replied Jane; ‘governess-trade, I assure you, was all that I had in view; widely different certainly as to the guilt of those who carry it on; but as to the greater misery of the victims, I do not know where it lies. But I only mean to say that there are advertising offices, and that by applying to them I should have no doubt of very soon meeting with something that would do.’
“我的意思不是，我没有想到奴隶贸易，”简回答道。 “我向你保证，我只想做家庭教师；对于那些继续这样做的人的罪责来说，肯定有很大不同；但至于受害者更大的痛苦，我不知道它在哪里。但我只是想说，那里有广告公司，通过向他们提出申请，我毫无疑问很快就会遇到可以做的事情。

‘Something that would do!’ repeated Mrs. Elton. ‘Aye, that may suit your humble ideas of yourself;—I know what a modest creature you are; but it will not satisfy your friends to have you taking up with any thing that may offer, any inferior, commonplace situation, in a family not moving in a certain circle, or able to command the elegancies of life.’
“可以的！”埃尔顿夫人重复道。 “是的，这可能适合你对自己的卑微想法；——我知道你是一个多么谦虚的人；但是，让你在一个不属于某个圈子的家庭中从事任何可能提供的事情，任何低级的、平凡的情况，或者无法掌控生活的优雅，都不能让你的朋友满意。

‘You are very obliging; but as to all that, I am very indifferent; it would be no object to me to be with the rich; my mortifications, I think, would only be the greater; I should suffer more from comparison. A gentleman’s family is all that I should condition for.’
‘你非常乐于助人；但对于这一切，我却很漠然；与富人在一起对我来说并不反对；我想，我的屈辱只会更大。相比之下，我应该承受更多的痛苦。君子之家是我所应有的条件。

‘I know you, I know you; you would take up with any thing; but I shall be a little more nice, and I am sure the good Campbells will be quite on my side; with your superior talents, you have a right to move in the first circle. Your musical knowledge alone would entitle you to name your own terms, have as many rooms as you like, and mix in the family as much as you chose;—that is—I do not know— if you knew the harp, you might do all that, I am very sure; but you sing as well as play;—yes, I really believe you might, even without the harp, stipulate for what you chose;—and you must and shall be delightfully, honourably and comfortably settled before the Campbells or I have any rest.’
‘我认识你，我认识你；你愿意做任何事情；但我会更加友善一点，我相信善良的坎贝尔夫妇会完全站在我这边；以你卓越的天赋，你有权利在第一圈里活动。仅凭你的音乐知识就足以让你命名自己的术语，拥有任意数量的房间，并随心所欲地融入家庭；也就是说，我不知道，如果你懂得竖琴，你可能会这样做这一切，我都非常确定；但你既会唱歌，又会玩耍；——是的，我真的相信，即使没有竖琴，你也可以规定你所选择的；——在坎贝尔夫妇或我休息之前，你必须而且应该愉快地、体面地、舒适地安顿下来。 '

‘You may well class the delight, the honour, and the comfort of such a situation together,’ said Jane, ‘they are pretty sure to be equal; however, I am very serious in not wishing any thing to be attempted at present for me. I am exceedingly obliged to you, Mrs. Elton, I am obliged to any body who feels for me, but I am quite serious in wishing nothing to be done till the summer. For two or three months longer I shall remain where I am, and as I am.’
“你完全可以把这种情况下的快乐、荣誉和舒适归为一类，”简说，“它们肯定是平等的；但是，你可以把这种情况的快乐、荣誉和舒适归为一类。”然而，我非常认真地不希望目前有人为我尝试任何事情。我非常感谢你，埃尔顿夫人，我感谢所有同情我的人，但我非常认真地希望在夏天之前什么都不做。在接下来的两三个月里，我将保持原样，保持原样。

‘And I am quite serious too, I assure you,’ replied Mrs. Elton gaily, ‘in resolving to be always on the watch, and employing my friends to watch also, that nothing really unexceptionable may pass us.’
“我向你保证，我也是很认真的，”埃尔顿夫人高兴地回答道，“我决心永远保持警惕，并雇用我的朋友们来监视，没有任何真正异常的事情可以通过我们。”

In this style she ran on; never thoroughly stopped by any thing till Mr. Woodhouse came into the room; her vanity had then a change of object, and Emma heard her saying in the same half-whisper to Jane,
她以这种方式继续奔跑；在伍德豪斯先生走进房间之前，从来没有彻底停止过任何事情；她的虚荣心随后改变了对象，艾玛听到她用同样的半耳语对简说：

‘Here comes this dear old beau of mine, I protest!—Only think of his gallantry in coming away before the other men!—what a dear creature he is;—I assure you I like him excessively. I admire all that quaint, old-fashioned politeness; it is much more to my taste than modern ease; modern ease often disgusts me. But this good old Mr. Woodhouse, I wish you had heard his gallant speeches to me at dinner. Oh! I assure you I began to think my caro sposo would be absolutely jealous. I fancy I am rather a favourite; he took notice of my gown. How do you like it?—Selina’s choice—handsome, I think, but I do not know whether it is not over-trimmed; I have the greatest dislike to the idea of being over-trimmed—quite a horror of finery. I must put on a few ornaments now, because it is expected of me. A bride, you know, must appear like a bride, but my natural taste is all for simplicity; a simple style of dress is so infinitely preferable to finery. But I am quite in the minority, I believe; few people seem to value simplicity of dress,—show and finery are every thing. I have some notion of putting such a trimming as this to my white and silver poplin. Do you think it will look well?’
“我的这位亲爱的老情人来了，我抗议！——只要想想他在其他人面前离开时的英勇！——他是一个多么可爱的人；——我向你保证，我非常喜欢他。我很欣赏那种古雅、老式的礼貌。它比现代的安逸更符合我的口味。现代的安逸常常让我感到厌恶。但是这位善良的老伍德豪斯先生，我希望你在晚餐时听到了他对我的慷慨演讲。哦！我向你保证，我开始认为我的卡罗·斯波索绝对会嫉妒。我想我是最受欢迎的人；他注意到了我的礼服。你觉得怎么样？——Selina的选择——我觉得很帅，但不知道是不是修剪过头了；我最不喜欢过于修剪的想法——这对华丽的装饰非常恐惧。我现在必须戴上一些装饰品，因为这是对我的期望。你知道，新娘必须看起来像新娘，但我天生的品味就是简单；简单的着装比华丽的服饰要好得多。但我相信我属于少数派；似乎很少有人重视简单的着装——展示和华丽就是一切。我想在我的白色和银色府绸上加上这样的装饰。你觉得它看起来好看吗？

The whole party were but just reassembled in the drawing-room when Mr. Weston made his appearance among them. He had returned to a late dinner, and walked to Hartfield as soon as it was over. He had been too much expected by the best judges, for surprize— but there was great joy. Mr. Woodhouse was almost as glad to see him now, as he would have been sorry to see him before. John Knightley only was in mute astonishment.—That a man who might have spent his evening quietly at home after a day of business in London, should set off again, and walk half a mile to another man’s house, for the sake of being in mixed company till bed-time, of finishing his day in the efforts of civility and the noise of numbers, was a circumstance to strike him deeply. A man who had been in motion since eight o’clock in the morning, and might now have been still, who had been long talking, and might have been silent, who had been in more than one crowd, and might have been alone!—Such a man, to quit the tranquillity and independence of his own fireside, and on the evening of a cold sleety April day rush out again into the world!—Could he by a touch of his finger have instantly taken back his wife, there would have been a motive; but his coming would probably prolong rather than break up the party. John Knightley looked at him with amazement, then shrugged his shoulders, and said, ‘I could not have believed it even of him.’
当韦斯顿先生出现在他们中间时，整个聚会刚刚在客厅重新聚集。他回来吃晚饭，一吃完就步行到哈特菲尔德。最好的评委对他寄予了太多的期望，这让他感到惊讶——但也有巨大的喜悦。伍德豪斯先生现在很高兴见到他，就像以前见到他会感到遗憾一样。约翰·奈特利只是感到无声的惊讶。——一个在伦敦工作了一天之后本可以在家里安静地度过一个晚上的人，应该再次出发，步行半英里到另一个人的房子，为了留在家里。一直到睡觉时间都是混杂的人，在礼貌的努力和人群的喧闹中结束一天的生活，这种情况给他留下了深刻的印象。一个从早上八点起就一直在活动的人，现在可能已经一动不动了，他一直在说话，可能一直保持沉默，他曾经在多个人群中，现在可能是独自一人！ ——这样的一个男人，放弃了自己炉边的宁静和独立，在寒冷的雨雪四月天的傍晚，再次奔向外面的世界！——他能用手指轻轻一触，立刻夺回他的妻子吗？会是一个动机；但他的到来可能会延长聚会的时间，而不是解散聚会。约翰·奈特利惊讶地看着他，然后耸耸肩说：“我什至都不敢相信他会这么做。”

Mr. Weston meanwhile, perfectly unsuspicious of the indignation he was exciting, happy and cheerful as usual, and with all the right of being principal talker, which a day spent anywhere from home confers, was making himself agreeable among the rest; and having satisfied the inquiries of his wife as to his dinner, convincing her that none of all her careful directions to the servants had been forgotten, and spread abroad what public news he had heard, was proceeding to a family communication, which, though principally addressed to Mrs. Weston, he had not the smallest doubt of being highly interesting to every body in the room. He gave her a letter, it was from Frank, and to herself; he had met with it in his way, and had taken the liberty of opening it.
与此同时，韦斯顿先生完全没有意识到他的愤怒，他像往常一样兴奋、快乐和愉快，并且拥有作为主要谈话者的所有权利，这是在家里的任何地方度过的一天所赋予的，他让自己在其他人中显得和蔼可亲。在满足了妻子关于晚餐的询问后，让她相信她对仆人的所有小心指示都没有被忘记，并将他听到的公共消息传播到各处，然后开始进行家庭通讯，虽然主要是在对韦斯顿夫人讲话时，他毫不怀疑房间里的每个人都非常感兴趣。他给了她一封信，是弗兰克写给她自己的。他以自己的方式遇见了它，并冒昧地打开了它。

‘Read it, read it,’ said he, ‘it will give you pleasure; only a few lines—will not take you long; read it to Emma.’
“读吧，读吧，”他说，“它会给你带来快乐；”只有几行——不会花你很长时间；读给艾玛听。”

The two ladies looked over it together; and he sat smiling and talking to them the whole time, in a voice a little subdued, but very audible to every body.
两位女士一起看了看。他一直微笑着坐着，与他们交谈，声音有点低沉，但每个人都听得很清楚。

‘Well, he is coming, you see; good news, I think. Well, what do you say to it?—I always told you he would be here again soon, did not I?—Anne, my dear, did not I always tell you so, and you would not believe me?—In town next week, you see—at the latest, I dare say; for she is as impatient as the black gentleman when any thing is to be done; most likely they will be there to-morrow or Saturday. As to her illness, all nothing of course. But it is an excellent thing to have Frank among us again, so near as town. They will stay a good while when they do come, and he will be half his time with us. This is precisely what I wanted. Well, pretty good news, is not it? Have you finished it? Has Emma read it all? Put it up, put it up; we will have a good talk about it some other time, but it will not do now. I shall only just mention the circumstance to the others in a common way.’
‘嗯，你看，他来了；我认为是个好消息。好吧，你对它说什么？——我总是告诉你他很快就会再来这里，不是吗？——安妮，亲爱的，我不是一直这样告诉你的，你不会相信我吗？——在下一个镇上一周，你看——我敢说，最晚；因为无论做什么事情，她都像那位黑人绅士一样不耐烦。他们很可能明天或周六就在那里。至于她的病，当然没什么。但弗兰克再次来到我们身边，离城镇如此之近，真是一件极好的事情。当他们来的时候，他们会待上很长一段时间，而他将有一半的时间和我们在一起。这正是我想要的。嗯，真是个好消息，不是吗？你完成了吗？艾玛读完了所有内容吗？放起来，放起来；我们改天再好好谈谈，但现在不行。我只是以通俗的方式向其他人提及这一情况。

Mrs. Weston was most comfortably pleased on the occasion. Her looks and words had nothing to restrain them. She was happy, she knew she was happy, and knew she ought to be happy. Her congratulations were warm and open; but Emma could not speak so fluently. She was a little occupied in weighing her own feelings, and trying to understand the degree of her agitation, which she rather thought was considerable.
韦斯顿夫人对此感到非常高兴。她的表情和言语都无法抑制他们。她很幸福，她知道自己很幸福，也知道自己应该幸福。她的祝贺是热烈而开放的。但艾玛说话不太流利。她有点忙于衡量自己的感受，并试图了解自己的激动程度，她认为这种程度相当严重。

Mr. Weston, however, too eager to be very observant, too communicative to want others to talk, was very well satisfied with what she did say, and soon moved away to make the rest of his friends happy by a partial communication of what the whole room must have overheard already.
然而，韦斯顿先生太渴望观察，太善于交际，不想让别人说话，他对她所说的话非常满意，很快就离开了，通过部分交流他的朋友的内容，让其他朋友感到高兴。整个房间肯定已经听到了。

It was well that he took every body’s joy for granted, or he might not have thought either Mr. Woodhouse or Mr. Knightley particularly delighted. They were the first entitled, after Mrs. Weston and Emma, to be made happy;—from them he would have proceeded to Miss Fairfax, but she was so deep in conversation with John Knightley, that it would have been too positive an interruption; and finding himself close to Mrs. Elton, and her attention disengaged, he necessarily began on the subject with her.
幸好他把每个人的快乐都视为理所当然，否则他可能不会认为伍德豪斯先生或奈特利先生特别高兴。他们是继韦斯顿夫人和艾玛之后第一个有资格获得幸福的人；他本可以从他们那里继续去找费尔法克斯小姐，但她正与约翰·奈特利交谈得如此深入，以至于打扰得太积极了；他发现自己离埃尔顿夫人很近，而她的注意力却分散了，他必然开始和她谈论这个话题。

Chapter XVIII
第十八章

‘I hope I shall soon have the pleasure of introducing my son to you,’ said Mr. Weston.
“我希望很快就能有幸向您介绍我的儿子，”韦斯顿先生说。

Mrs. Elton, very willing to suppose a particular compliment intended her by such a hope, smiled most graciously.
埃尔顿夫人很乐意地认为，这样的希望是对她的一种特别的赞美，她露出了最亲切的微笑。

‘You have heard of a certain Frank Churchill, I presume,’ he continued— ‘and know him to be my son, though he does not bear my name.’
“我想你听说过弗兰克·丘吉尔，”他继续说道，“并且知道他是我的儿子，尽管他不姓我。”

‘Oh! yes, and I shall be very happy in his acquaintance. I am sure Mr. Elton will lose no time in calling on him; and we shall both have great pleasure in seeing him at the Vicarage.’
'哦！是的，我会很高兴认识他。我确信埃尔顿先生会立即拜访他；我们都很高兴在牧师住宅见到他。

‘You are very obliging.—Frank will be extremely happy, I am sure.— He is to be in town next week, if not sooner. We have notice of it in a letter to-day. I met the letters in my way this morning, and seeing my son’s hand, presumed to open it—though it was not directed to me—it was to Mrs. Weston. She is his principal correspondent, I assure you. I hardly ever get a letter.’
“你非常乐于助人。——我相信弗兰克会非常高兴。——他下周就会到城里，甚至更早。”我们今天在一封信中注意到了这一点。今天早上我以我的方式遇到了这些信，看到我儿子的手，就想打开它——尽管它不是写给我的——而是写给韦斯顿太太的。我向你保证，她是他的主要通讯员。我几乎没有收到过一封信。

‘And so you absolutely opened what was directed to her! Oh! Mr. Weston— (laughing affectedly) I must protest against that.—A most dangerous precedent indeed!—I beg you will not let your neighbours follow your example.—Upon my word, if this is what I am to expect, we married women must begin to exert ourselves!—Oh! Mr. Weston, I could not have believed it of you!’
‘所以你绝对打开了针对她的东西！哦！韦斯顿先生——（做作地笑）我必须抗议这一点。——这确实是一个最危险的先例！——我求你不要让你的邻居效仿你的榜样。——据我所知，如果这是我所期望的，我们结婚了女人必须开始努力！——哦！韦斯顿先生，我简直不敢相信你会这么做！

‘Aye, we men are sad fellows. You must take care of yourself, Mrs. Elton.—This letter tells us—it is a short letter—written in a hurry, merely to give us notice—it tells us that they are all coming up to town directly, on Mrs. Churchill’s account—she has not been well the whole winter, and thinks Enscombe too cold for her— so they are all to move southward without loss of time.’
“是啊，我们男人都是可悲的家伙。你必须照顾好自己，埃尔顿夫人。——这封信告诉我们——这是一封简短的信——写得很匆忙，只是为了通知我们——它告诉我们他们都直接来镇上，乘埃尔顿夫人的车。根据丘吉尔的说法——她整个冬天都不太舒服，并且认为恩斯库姆对她来说太冷了——所以他们要抓紧时间向南移动。

‘Indeed!—from Yorkshire, I think. Enscombe is in Yorkshire?’
“确实如此！——我想是来自约克郡。”恩斯库姆在约克郡？

‘Yes, they are about one hundred and ninety miles from London. a considerable journey.’
“是的，他们距离伦敦大约一百九十英里。一次相当长的旅程。

‘Yes, upon my word, very considerable. Sixty-five miles farther than from Maple Grove to London. But what is distance, Mr. Weston, to people of large fortune?—You would be amazed to hear how my brother, Mr. Suckling, sometimes flies about. You will hardly believe me— but twice in one week he and Mr. Bragge went to London and back again with four horses.’
“是的，据我所知，非常可观。”比从枫树林到伦敦还要远六十五英里。但是，韦斯顿先生，对于有钱人来说，距离是什么？——如果你听到我的兄弟萨克林先生有时飞来飞去，你一定会感到惊讶。你很难相信我——但他和布拉格先生一周内两次带着四匹马往返于伦敦。

‘The evil of the distance from Enscombe,’ said Mr. Weston, ‘is, that Mrs. Churchill, as we understand, has not been able to leave the sofa for a week together. In Frank’s last letter she complained, he said, of being too weak to get into her conservatory without having both his arm and his uncle’s! This, you know, speaks a great degree of weakness—but now she is so impatient to be in town, that she means to sleep only two nights on the road.—So Frank writes word. Certainly, delicate ladies have very extraordinary constitutions, Mrs. Elton. You must grant me that.’
“距离恩斯库姆很远，”韦斯顿先生说，“据我们了解，丘吉尔夫人已经有一个星期不能离开沙发了。”弗兰克说，在他的最后一封信中，她抱怨说，如果没有他和叔叔的手臂，她太虚弱了，无法进入她的音乐学院！你知道，这说明了很大程度的软弱——但现在她太不耐烦进城了，她只想在路上睡两个晚上。——所以弗兰克写了字。当然，精致的女士们有着非常非凡的体质，埃尔顿夫人。你必须答应我。

‘No, indeed, I shall grant you nothing. I Always take the part of my own sex. I do indeed. I give you notice—You will find me a formidable antagonist on that point. I always stand up for women— and I assure you, if you knew how Selina feels with respect to sleeping at an inn, you would not wonder at Mrs. Churchill’s making incredible exertions to avoid it. Selina says it is quite horror to her—and I believe I have caught a little of her nicety. She always travels with her own sheets; an excellent precaution. Does Mrs. Churchill do the same?’
“不，确实，我不会给你任何东西。我总是扮演我自己性别的角色。我确实如此。我通知你——在这一点上你会发现我是一个可怕的对手。我总是为女性挺身而出——我向你保证，如果你知道塞琳娜对在旅馆睡觉的感受，你就不会奇怪丘吉尔夫人做出了令人难以置信的努力来避免这种情况。塞琳娜说这对她来说非常可怕——我相信我已经领会到了她的一些善意。她旅行时总是带着自己的床单；一个极好的预防措施。丘吉尔夫人也这样做吗？

‘Depend upon it, Mrs. Churchill does every thing that any other fine lady ever did. Mrs. Churchill will not be second to any lady in the land for’—
“相信吧，丘吉尔夫人做了其他任何一位优秀女士所做过的一切事情。丘吉尔夫人不会在这片土地上仅次于任何一位女士——

Mrs. Elton eagerly interposed with,
埃尔顿夫人热切地介入，

‘Oh! Mr. Weston, do not mistake me. Selina is no fine lady, I assure you. Do not run away with such an idea.’
'哦！韦斯顿先生，请不要误会我。我向你保证，塞琳娜不是个好女人。不要带着这样的想法就逃跑。

‘Is not she? Then she is no rule for Mrs. Churchill, who is as thorough a fine lady as any body ever beheld.’
'是不是她？那么，她就不再是丘吉尔夫人的规则了，她是任何人所见过的最优秀的女士。

Mrs. Elton began to think she had been wrong in disclaiming so warmly. It was by no means her object to have it believed that her sister was not a fine lady; perhaps there was want of spirit in the pretence of it;—and she was considering in what way she had best retract, when Mr. Weston went on.
埃尔顿夫人开始认为她如此热情地否认是错误的。她的目的绝不是让人们相信她的妹妹不是一位优秀的女士；她的目的是让人们相信她的姐姐不是一个优秀的女士。也许假装如此缺乏精神；——当韦斯顿先生继续说下去时，她正在考虑最好以什么方式撤回。

‘Mrs. Churchill is not much in my good graces, as you may suspect— but this is quite between ourselves. She is very fond of Frank, and therefore I would not speak ill of her. Besides, she is out of health now; but that indeed, by her own account, she has always been. I would not say so to every body, Mrs. Elton, but I have not much faith in Mrs. Churchill’s illness.’
'太太。正如你可能怀疑的那样，丘吉尔不太受我的青睐——但这完全是我们之间的事。她很喜欢弗兰克，因此我不会说她的坏话。再说了，她现在身体不好，怎么办？但据她自己说，她确实一直都是这样。埃尔顿夫人，我不会对所有人都这么说，但我对丘吉尔夫人的病没有多大信心。

‘If she is really ill, why not go to Bath, Mr. Weston?—To Bath, or to Clifton?’ ‘She has taken it into her head that Enscombe is too cold for her. The fact is, I suppose, that she is tired of Enscombe. She has now been a longer time stationary there, than she ever was before, and she begins to want change. It is a retired place. A fine place, but very retired.’
“如果她真的病了，为什么不去巴斯，韦斯顿先生？——去巴斯，还是去克利夫顿？” “她已经意识到恩斯库姆对她来说太冷了。”我想，事实是她厌倦了恩斯库姆。现在，她在那里停留的时间比以前更长了，她开始想要改变。这是一个退休的地方。一个不错的地方，但非常退休。

‘Aye—like Maple Grove, I dare say. Nothing can stand more retired from the road than Maple Grove. Such an immense plantation all round it! You seem shut out from every thing—in the most complete retirement.— And Mrs. Churchill probably has not health or spirits like Selina to enjoy that sort of seclusion. Or, perhaps she may not have resources enough in herself to be qualified for a country life. I always say a woman cannot have too many resources—and I feel very thankful that I have so many myself as to be quite independent of society.’
“是的——我敢说，就像枫树林一样。”没有什么比枫林更能远离喧嚣的道路了。周围是一片巨大的种植园！你似乎与一切隔绝——处于最彻底的退休状态。——而丘吉尔夫人可能没有像塞琳娜那样的健康或精神来享受这种隐居。或者，也许她自己没有足够的资源来适应乡村生活。我总是说，一个女人不能拥有太多的资源，而我非常庆幸自己拥有如此多的资源，可以完全独立于社会。

‘Frank was here in February for a fortnight.’
“弗兰克二月份在这里待了两周。”

‘So I remember to have heard. He will find an addition to the society of Highbury when he comes again; that is, if I may presume to call myself an addition. But perhaps he may never have heard of there being such a creature in the world.’
‘所以我记得听过。当他再次到来时，他会发现海布里的社交圈子里又多了一个新成员。也就是说，如果我可以称自己为补充的话。但也许他可能从来没有听说过世界上有这样的生物。”

This was too loud a call for a compliment to be passed by, and Mr. Weston, with a very good grace, immediately exclaimed,
韦斯顿先生非常有风度地立即喊道：

‘My dear madam! Nobody but yourself could imagine such a thing possible. Not heard of you!—I believe Mrs. Weston’s letters lately have been full of very little else than Mrs. Elton.’
‘我亲爱的夫人！除了你自己之外，没有人能想象这样的事情是可能的。没听说过你！——我相信韦斯顿夫人最近的信除了埃尔顿夫人之外就没有什么其他的了。

He had done his duty and could return to his son.
他已经完成了自己的职责，可以回到儿子身边了。

‘When Frank left us,’ continued he, ‘it was quite uncertain when we might see him again, which makes this day’s news doubly welcome. It has been completely unexpected. That is, I always had a strong persuasion he would be here again soon, I was sure something favourable would turn up—but nobody believed me. He and Mrs. Weston were both dreadfully desponding. ‘How could he contrive to come? And how could it be supposed that his uncle and aunt would spare him again?’ and so forth—I always felt that something would happen in our favour; and so it has, you see. I have observed, Mrs. Elton, in the course of my life, that if things are going untowardly one month, they are sure to mend the next.’
“当弗兰克离开我们时，”他继续说道，“我们很难确定何时才能再次见到他，这使得今天的消息倍加受欢迎。这是完全出乎意料的。也就是说，我一直坚信他很快就会再次来到这里，我确信会有有利的事情出现——但没有人相信我。他和韦斯顿夫人都非常沮丧。 ‘他怎么能设法来呢？他的叔叔婶婶又怎么会饶过他呢？”等等——我总觉得会发生一些对我们有利的事情；你看，情况确实如此。埃尔顿夫人，我在一生中观察到，如果某个月事情进展不顺利，下个月肯定会好转。

‘Very true, Mr. Weston, perfectly true. It is just what I used to say to a certain gentleman in company in the days of courtship, when, because things did not go quite right, did not proceed with all the rapidity which suited his feelings, he was apt to be in despair, and exclaim that he was sure at this rate it would be May before Hymen’s saffron robe would be put on for us. Oh! the pains I have been at to dispel those gloomy ideas and give him cheerfuller views! The carriage—we had disappointments about the carriage;—one morning, I remember, he came to me quite in despair.’
“非常正确，韦斯顿先生，完全正确。这正是我在求爱的日子里对一位同行的绅士说过的话，当事情进展不顺利，没有按照他的感受迅速进行时，他很容易感到绝望，并大声喊道，他确信按照这个速度，要到五月份，海门的藏红花长袍才会为我们穿上。哦！我一直在努力消除那些悲观的想法并给他带来更乐观的看法！马车——我们对马车感到失望；——我记得，有一天早上，他非常绝望地来找我。

She was stopped by a slight fit of coughing, and Mr. Weston instantly seized the opportunity of going on.
她因一阵轻微的咳嗽而停了下来，韦斯顿先生立即抓住机会继续说下去。

‘You were mentioning May. May is the very month which Mrs. Churchill is ordered, or has ordered herself, to spend in some warmer place than Enscombe—in short, to spend in London; so that we have the agreeable prospect of frequent visits from Frank the whole spring— precisely the season of the year which one should have chosen for it: days almost at the longest; weather genial and pleasant, always inviting one out, and never too hot for exercise. When he was here before, we made the best of it; but there was a good deal of wet, damp, cheerless weather; there always is in February, you know, and we could not do half that we intended. Now will be the time. This will be complete enjoyment; and I do not know, Mrs. Elton, whether the uncertainty of our meetings, the sort of constant expectation there will be of his coming in to-day or to-morrow, and at any hour, may not be more friendly to happiness than having him actually in the house. I think it is so. I think it is the state of mind which gives most spirit and delight. I hope you will be pleased with my son; but you must not expect a prodigy. He is generally thought a fine young man, but do not expect a prodigy. Mrs. Weston’s partiality for him is very great, and, as you may suppose, most gratifying to me. She thinks nobody equal to him.’
“你刚才提到了梅。正是在五月，丘吉尔夫人被命令，或者说她自己，去某个比恩斯库姆更温暖的地方度过——简而言之，在伦敦度过。因此，我们有一个美好的前景，整个春天弗兰克都会经常来访——正是一年中我们应该选择的季节：白天几乎最长；天气温和宜人，总是邀请人们出去，而且永远不会太热而无法锻炼。当他以前来的时候，我们充分利用了这一点；但天气却很潮湿、闷闷不乐。你知道，二月总是有的，但我们却无法完成我们预期的一半。现在就是时候了。这将是完全的享受；埃尔顿夫人，我不知道我们会面的不确定性，以及对他今天或明天、任何时候都会到来的那种不断的期待，是否比幸福更有利让他实际上在房子里。我想是这样的。我认为最能带来精神和快乐的是心态。我希望你会对我的儿子感到满意；但你不能指望一个神童。人们普遍认为他是一个优秀的年轻人，但不要指望他是一个神童。韦斯顿夫人对他非常偏爱，正如你可能想的那样，这让我非常满意。她认为没有人能与他平等。

‘And I assure you, Mr. Weston, I have very little doubt that my opinion will be decidedly in his favour. I have heard so much in praise of Mr. Frank Churchill.—At the same time it is fair to observe, that I am one of those who always judge for themselves, and are by no means implicitly guided by others. I give you notice that as I find your son, so I shall judge of him.—I am no flatterer.’
“我向你保证，韦斯顿先生，我毫不怀疑我的意见绝对对他有利。我听到过很多人对弗兰克·丘吉尔先生的赞扬。同时，公平地说，我是那些总是自己判断的人之一，而决不暗中接受他人的指导。我要通知你，当我找到你的儿子时，我会评判他。——我不是阿谀奉承者。

Mr. Weston was musing.
韦斯顿先生陷入沉思。

‘I hope,’ said he presently, ‘I have not been severe upon poor Mrs. Churchill. If she is ill I should be sorry to do her injustice; but there are some traits in her character which make it difficult for me to speak of her with the forbearance I could wish. You cannot be ignorant, Mrs. Elton, of my connexion with the family, nor of the treatment I have met with; and, between ourselves, the whole blame of it is to be laid to her. She was the instigator. Frank’s mother would never have been slighted as she was but for her. Mr. Churchill has pride; but his pride is nothing to his wife’s: his is a quiet, indolent, gentlemanlike sort of pride that would harm nobody, and only make himself a little helpless and tiresome; but her pride is arrogance and insolence! And what inclines one less to bear, she has no fair pretence of family or blood. She was nobody when he married her, barely the daughter of a gentleman; but ever since her being turned into a Churchill she has out-Churchill’d them all in high and mighty claims: but in herself, I assure you, she is an upstart.’
“我希望，”他立即说道，“我没有对可怜的丘吉尔夫人严厉。如果她病了，我会为对她的不公正感到抱歉；但她性格中的某些特质使我很难以我希望的宽容来谈论她。埃尔顿夫人，您不可能不知道我与这个家庭的关系，也不可能不知道我所受到的待遇。而且，我们私下来说，这一切的责任都归咎于她。她是煽动者。如果没有她，弗兰克的母亲永远不会像现在这样受到轻视。丘吉尔先生有骄傲；但他的自尊与他妻子的不值一提：他是一种安静、懒散、绅士般的自尊，不会伤害任何人，只会让自己变得有点无助和厌倦；但她的骄傲却是傲慢和无礼！而更让人难以忍受的是，她没有公平的家庭或血统假装。当他娶她时，她还算不上什么人物，只是一个绅士的女儿。但自从她被变成丘吉尔以来，她在崇高而强大的主张上已经超越了丘吉尔：但就她自己而言，我向你保证，她是一个暴发户。

‘Only think! well, that must be infinitely provoking! I have quite a horror of upstarts. Maple Grove has given me a thorough disgust to people of that sort; for there is a family in that neighbourhood who are such an annoyance to my brother and sister from the airs they give themselves! Your description of Mrs. Churchill made me think of them directly. People of the name of Tupman, very lately settled there, and encumbered with many low connexions, but giving themselves immense airs, and expecting to be on a footing with the old established families. A year and a half is the very utmost that they can have lived at West Hall; and how they got their fortune nobody knows. They came from Birmingham, which is not a place to promise much, you know, Mr. Weston. One has not great hopes from Birmingham. I always say there is something direful in the sound: but nothing more is positively known of the Tupmans, though a good many things I assure you are suspected; and yet by their manners they evidently think themselves equal even to my brother, Mr. Suckling, who happens to be one of their nearest neighbours. It is infinitely too bad. Mr. Suckling, who has been eleven years a resident at Maple Grove, and whose father had it before him—I believe, at least—I am almost sure that old Mr. Suckling had completed the purchase before his death.’
'只想到！嗯，这一定是无限刺激的！我对暴发户非常恐惧。枫树林让我对这类人彻底厌恶。因为那个街区有一个家庭，他们的架子让我的兄弟姐妹非常烦恼！你对丘吉尔夫人的描述让我直接想起了他们。名叫图普曼的人最近才在那里定居，有许多低层的关系，但他们却自以为是，并希望能与古老的家族站稳脚跟。一年半的时间，已经是他们在西厅的最长居住时间了。没有人知道他们是如何获得财富的。他们来自伯明翰，韦斯顿先生，你知道，那不是一个可以做出太多承诺的地方。人们对伯明翰不抱太大希望。我总是说声音里有一些可怕的东西：但是关于图普曼一家，我们没有更多的确切信息，尽管我向你保证很多事情都受到怀疑；然而，从他们的举止来看，他们显然认为自己甚至可以与我的兄弟萨克林先生平等，而萨克林先生恰好是他们最近的邻居之一。这真是太糟糕了。萨克林先生已经在枫树林住了十一年了，他的父亲在他之前就买下了这栋房子——至少我相信——我几乎可以肯定，老萨克林先生在他去世前就已经完成了购买。

They were interrupted. Tea was carrying round, and Mr. Weston, having said all that he wanted, soon took the opportunity of walking away.
他们被打断了。茶水端上来了，韦斯顿先生说完他想说的一切后，很快就趁机走开了。

After tea, Mr. and Mrs. Weston, and Mr. Elton sat down with Mr. Woodhouse to cards. The remaining five were left to their own powers, and Emma doubted their getting on very well; for Mr. Knightley seemed little disposed for conversation; Mrs. Elton was wanting notice, which nobody had inclination to pay, and she was herself in a worry of spirits which would have made her prefer being silent.
喝完茶后，韦斯顿先生和夫人以及埃尔顿先生与伍德豪斯先生坐下来打牌。剩下的五个人就靠自己的力量，艾玛怀疑他们相处得很好。因为奈特利先生似乎不太愿意交谈。埃尔顿夫人想要得到通知，但没有人愿意付钱，而且她自己也担心精神，这会让她宁愿保持沉默。

Mr. John Knightley proved more talkative than his brother. He was to leave them early the next day; and he soon began with—
事实证明，约翰·奈特利先生比他的兄弟更健谈。他第二天一早就要离开他们。他很快就开始——

‘Well, Emma, I do not believe I have any thing more to say about the boys; but you have your sister’s letter, and every thing is down at full length there we may be sure. My charge would be much more concise than her’s, and probably not much in the same spirit; all that I have to recommend being comprised in, do not spoil them, and do not physic them.’
“好吧，艾玛，关于孩子们，我相信我没有什么可说的了；但你有你姐姐的信，我们可以确定所有事情都详细记录在那里。我的职责会比她的简洁得多，而且可能也不是出于同样的精神。我建议大家参与其中，不要破坏它们，也不要对它们进行物理治疗。

‘I rather hope to satisfy you both,’ said Emma, ‘for I shall do all in my power to make them happy, which will be enough for Isabella; and happiness must preclude false indulgence and physic.’
“我宁愿让你们俩都满意，”艾玛说，“因为我会尽我所能让他们幸福，这对伊莎贝拉来说就足够了；幸福必须排除错误的放纵和健身。”

‘And if you find them troublesome, you must send them home again.’
“如果你觉得他们给你带来麻烦，你就必须把他们送回家。”

‘That is very likely. You think so, do not you?’
‘这很有可能。你是这么认为的，不是吗？

‘I hope I am aware that they may be too noisy for your father— or even may be some encumbrance to you, if your visiting engagements continue to increase as much as they have done lately.’
“我希望我知道它们对你父亲来说可能太吵了——或者甚至可能对你来说是一些负担，如果你的探访活动继续像他们最近那样增加的话。”

‘Increase!’
'增加！'

‘Certainly; you must be sensible that the last half-year has made a great difference in your way of life.’
'当然;你必须意识到，过去的半年对你的生活方式产生了很大的影响。

‘Difference! No indeed I am not.’
'不同之处！不，我确实不是。

‘There can be no doubt of your being much more engaged with company than you used to be. Witness this very time. Here am I come down for only one day, and you are engaged with a dinner-party!— When did it happen before, or any thing like it? Your neighbourhood is increasing, and you mix more with it. A little while ago, every letter to Isabella brought an account of fresh gaieties; dinners at Mr. Cole’s, or balls at the Crown. The difference which Randalls, Randalls alone makes in your goings-on, is very great.’
“毫无疑问，你比以前更愿意与人交往。这次就见证一下吧。我只下来一天，而你却要去参加一个晚宴！——以前什么时候发生过，或者类似的事情？你的邻居越来越多，你与之相处的也越来越多。不久前，每封写给伊莎贝拉的信都充满了新鲜的欢乐。在科尔先生家吃晚饭，或者在皇冠酒店举行舞会。兰德尔斯，仅兰德尔斯一个人，就能给你的行为带来巨大的改变。

‘Yes,’ said his brother quickly, ‘it is Randalls that does it all.’
“是的，”他哥哥很快说道，“这一切都是兰德尔斯做的。”

‘Very well—and as Randalls, I suppose, is not likely to have less influence than heretofore, it strikes me as a possible thing, Emma, that Henry and John may be sometimes in the way. And if they are, I only beg you to send them home.’
“很好——我想兰德尔斯的影响力不会比以前小，艾玛，我觉得亨利和约翰有时可能会妨碍我，这对我来说是可能的。如果是的话，我只求你把他们送回家。”

‘No,’ cried Mr. Knightley, ‘that need not be the consequence. Let them be sent to Donwell. I shall certainly be at leisure.’
“不，”奈特利先生喊道，“这不一定是结果。让他们被送到唐威尔那里。我肯定会有闲暇的。

‘Upon my word,’ exclaimed Emma, ‘you amuse me! I should like to know how many of all my numerous engagements take place without your being of the party; and why I am to be supposed in danger of wanting leisure to attend to the little boys. These amazing engagements of mine— what have they been? Dining once with the Coles—and having a ball talked of, which never took place. I can understand you—(nodding at Mr. John Knightley)—your good fortune in meeting with so many of your friends at once here, delights you too much to pass unnoticed. But you, (turning to Mr. Knightley,) who know how very, very seldom I am ever two hours from Hartfield, why you should foresee such a series of dissipation for me, I cannot imagine. And as to my dear little boys, I must say, that if Aunt Emma has not time for them, I do not think they would fare much better with Uncle Knightley, who is absent from home about five hours where she is absent one— and who, when he is at home, is either reading to himself or settling his accounts.’
“说实话，”艾玛喊道，“你让我很开心！”我想知道在我众多的约会中，有多少是在你不在场的情况下进行的；以及为什么我会面临需要闲暇照顾小男孩的危险。我的这些令人惊奇的参与——它们是什么？和科尔斯夫妇一起吃过一次饭，还讨论过要举办一个舞会，但这从未发生过。我能理解你——（向约翰·奈特利先生点头）——你有幸在这里同时见到了这么多朋友，这让你感到非常高兴，不容忽视。但是你（转向奈特利先生）知道我离哈特菲尔德只有两个小时的路程是多么非常非常少，为什么你会预见到我会经历这样一系列的放荡，我无法想象。至于我亲爱的小男孩们，我必须说，如果艾玛阿姨没有时间陪伴他们，我认为他们和奈特利叔叔在一起的情况不会好得多，奈特利叔叔离开家大约五个小时，而她却缺席了一个——而且当他在家的时候，要么自己读书，要么算账。

Mr. Knightley seemed to be trying not to smile; and succeeded without difficulty, upon Mrs. Elton’s beginning to talk to him.
奈特利先生似乎努力不笑。当埃尔顿夫人开始与他交谈时，毫无困难地成功了。

Volume III
第三卷

Chapter I
第一章

A very little quiet reflection was enough to satisfy Emma as to the nature of her agitation on hearing this news of Frank Churchill. She was soon convinced that it was not for herself she was feeling at all apprehensive or embarrassed; it was for him. Her own attachment had really subsided into a mere nothing; it was not worth thinking of;— but if he, who had undoubtedly been always so much the most in love of the two, were to be returning with the same warmth of sentiment which he had taken away, it would be very distressing. If a separation of two months should not have cooled him, there were dangers and evils before her:—caution for him and for herself would be necessary. She did not mean to have her own affections entangled again, and it would be incumbent on her to avoid any encouragement of his.
艾玛稍微安静地思考了一下，就足以让她明白，听到弗兰克·丘吉尔的消息后，她的激动之情到底是什么。她很快就确信，她并不是为自己感到忧虑或尴尬；而是为她自己感到担忧或尴尬。这是为了他。她自己的执着真的化为虚无，不值得去想；——但是，如果毫无疑问他一直是两人中最爱的人，带着他夺走的同样温暖的情感回来，那将是非常令人痛苦的。如果两个月的分离不能让他冷静下来，那么她面前就有危险和邪恶：——对他和她自己来说，小心谨慎是必要的。她不想再让自己的感情纠缠在一起，她有责任避免他的任何鼓励。

She wished she might be able to keep him from an absolute declaration. That would be so very painful a conclusion of their present acquaintance! and yet, she could not help rather anticipating something decisive. She felt as if the spring would not pass without bringing a crisis, an event, a something to alter her present composed and tranquil state.
她希望自己能够阻止他做出绝对的声明。他们现在相识的结局将是非常痛苦的！然而，她还是情不自禁地期待着一些决定性的事情。她觉得如果春天过去了，就会带来一场危机、一件事件、一件事情来改变她目前平静的状态。

It was not very long, though rather longer than Mr. Weston had foreseen, before she had the power of forming some opinion of Frank Churchill’s feelings. The Enscombe family were not in town quite so soon as had been imagined, but he was at Highbury very soon afterwards. He rode down for a couple of hours; he could not yet do more; but as he came from Randalls immediately to Hartfield, she could then exercise all her quick observation, and speedily determine how he was influenced, and how she must act. They met with the utmost friendliness. There could be no doubt of his great pleasure in seeing her. But she had an almost instant doubt of his caring for her as he had done, of his feeling the same tenderness in the same degree. She watched him well. It was a clear thing he was less in love than he had been. Absence, with the conviction probably of her indifference, had produced this very natural and very desirable effect.
没过多久，她就对弗兰克·丘吉尔的感受形成了某种看法，尽管比韦斯顿先生预见的要长。恩斯科姆一家并没有想象中那么快就到了城里，但他很快就到了海布里。他骑了几个小时才下来。他还不能做得更多。但当他立即从兰德尔斯来到哈特菲尔德时，她就可以运用她所有的快速观察力，迅速确定他是如何受到影响的，以及她必须如何行动。他们的会见是极其友好的。毫无疑问，他很高兴见到她。但她几乎立刻就怀疑他是否像以前一样关心她，怀疑他是否同样感受到了同样程度的温柔。她很好地观察着他。很明显，他比以前更不爱了。缺席，可能是因为她的冷漠，产生了这种非常自然和非常理想的效果。

He was in high spirits; as ready to talk and laugh as ever, and seemed delighted to speak of his former visit, and recur to old stories: and he was not without agitation. It was not in his calmness that she read his comparative difference. He was not calm; his spirits were evidently fluttered; there was restlessness about him. Lively as he was, it seemed a liveliness that did not satisfy himself; but what decided her belief on the subject, was his staying only a quarter of an hour, and hurrying away to make other calls in Highbury. ‘He had seen a group of old acquaintance in the street as he passed— he had not stopped, he would not stop for more than a word—but he had the vanity to think they would be disappointed if he did not call, and much as he wished to stay longer at Hartfield, he must hurry off.’ She had no doubt as to his being less in love—but neither his agitated spirits, nor his hurrying away, seemed like a perfect cure; and she was rather inclined to think it implied a dread of her returning power, and a discreet resolution of not trusting himself with her long.
他精神抖擞；一如既往地有说有笑，似乎很高兴谈论他以前的来访，并重提旧故事：他不无激动。她并不是从他的冷静中看出了他的相对差异。他不平静；他的精神显然有些激动。他心神不定。尽管他很活泼，但这种活泼似乎并不能满足他自己；但决定她对这个问题的看法的是，他只停留了一刻钟，就匆匆离开去海布里打其他电话。 “当他经过时，他在街上看到了一群老熟人——他没有停下来，他不会停下来超过一个字——但他有虚荣心，认为如果他不打电话给他们，他们会感到失望，而且“因为他想在哈特菲尔德多呆一会儿，所以他必须赶快离开。”她毫不怀疑他的爱情减少了——但他焦躁的情绪和他的匆忙离开似乎都不是完美的治疗方法；她更倾向于认为这意味着对她重新获得权力的恐惧，以及谨慎的决心，不再信任她太久。

This was the only visit from Frank Churchill in the course of ten days. He was often hoping, intending to come—but was always prevented. His aunt could not bear to have him leave her. Such was his own account at Randall’s. If he were quite sincere, if he really tried to come, it was to be inferred that Mrs. Churchill’s removal to London had been of no service to the wilful or nervous part of her disorder. That she was really ill was very certain; he had declared himself convinced of it, at Randalls. Though much might be fancy, he could not doubt, when he looked back, that she was in a weaker state of health than she had been half a year ago. He did not believe it to proceed from any thing that care and medicine might not remove, or at least that she might not have many years of existence before her; but he could not be prevailed on, by all his father’s doubts, to say that her complaints were merely imaginary, or that she was as strong as ever.
这是弗兰克·丘吉尔十天来唯一一次来访。他常常希望、打算来——但总是被阻止。他的姨妈不忍心让他离开她。这就是他自己在兰德尔店里的叙述。如果他是真诚的，如果他真的想来，那么可以推断，丘吉尔夫人搬到伦敦对她的任性或紧张的疾病没有任何帮助。毫无疑问，她确实病了。他在兰德尔斯就曾宣称自己对此深信不疑。虽然有些幻想，但当他回头看时，他不能怀疑，她的健康状况比半年前更虚弱了。他不相信这是由护理和药物无法消除的任何原因引起的，或者至少她可能不会再活很多年了。但他父亲的疑虑无法说服他说她的抱怨只是想象中的，或者说她像以前一样坚强。

It soon appeared that London was not the place for her. She could not endure its noise. Her nerves were under continual irritation and suffering; and by the ten days’ end, her nephew’s letter to Randalls communicated a change of plan. They were going to remove immediately to Richmond. Mrs. Churchill had been recommended to the medical skill of an eminent person there, and had otherwise a fancy for the place. A ready-furnished house in a favourite spot was engaged, and much benefit expected from the change.
很快就发现伦敦不适合她。她无法忍受它的噪音。她的神经持续受到刺激和痛苦。十天结束时，她侄子写给兰德尔斯的信传达了计划的改变。他们要立即搬到里士满。丘吉尔夫人被推荐给那里一位知名人士的医术，并且对这个地方很感兴趣。在一个最喜欢的地方租了一栋现成的房子，并期望从这一变化中获益匪浅。

Emma heard that Frank wrote in the highest spirits of this arrangement, and seemed most fully to appreciate the blessing of having two months before him of such near neighbourhood to many dear friends— for the house was taken for May and June. She was told that now he wrote with the greatest confidence of being often with them, almost as often as he could even wish.
艾玛听说弗兰克以最高的精神写下了这个安排，并且似乎非常感激能在他面前两个月与许多亲爱的朋友如此亲近的祝福——因为这所房子是五月和六月租用的。她被告知，现在他以最大的信心写作，经常和他们在一起，几乎是他希望的次数。

Emma saw how Mr. Weston understood these joyous prospects. He was considering her as the source of all the happiness they offered. She hoped it was not so. Two months must bring it to the proof.
艾玛看到韦斯顿先生如何理解这些美好的前景。他认为她是他们所提供的所有幸福的源泉。她希望事实并非如此。必须用两个月的时间来证明。

Mr. Weston’s own happiness was indisputable. He was quite delighted. It was the very circumstance he could have wished for. Now, it would be really having Frank in their neighbourhood. What were nine miles to a young man?—An hour’s ride. He would be always coming over. The difference in that respect of Richmond and London was enough to make the whole difference of seeing him always and seeing him never. Sixteen miles—nay, eighteen—it must be full eighteen to Manchester-street—was a serious obstacle. Were he ever able to get away, the day would be spent in coming and returning. There was no comfort in having him in London; he might as well be at Enscombe; but Richmond was the very distance for easy intercourse. Better than nearer!
韦斯顿先生自己的幸福是无可争议的。他心里非常高兴。这正是他所希望的。现在，弗兰克真的就在他们的社区了。九英里对于一个年轻人来说意味着什么？——一个小时的车程。他总会过来的。里士满和伦敦在这方面的差异足以造成经常见到他和从未见到他的完全不同。十六英里——不，是十八英里——到曼彻斯特街一定是十八英里——是一个严重的障碍。如果他能离开，这一天就得花在来来回回上。他在伦敦并没有带来什么安慰。他还不如在恩斯库姆。但里士满距离很远，方便交往。比接近更好！

One good thing was immediately brought to a certainty by this removal,— the ball at the Crown. It had not been forgotten before, but it had been soon acknowledged vain to attempt to fix a day. Now, however, it was absolutely to be; every preparation was resumed, and very soon after the Churchills had removed to Richmond, a few lines from Frank, to say that his aunt felt already much better for the change, and that he had no doubt of being able to join them for twenty-four hours at any given time, induced them to name as early a day as possible.
这次移除立即确定了一件好事，那就是皇冠上的舞会。以前并没有忘记这一点，但很快人们就承认试图确定某一天是徒劳的。然而现在，这是绝对的。一切准备工作都恢复了，在丘吉尔一家搬到里士满后不久，弗兰克写了几行话，说他的姨妈对这一变化感觉好多了，他毫无疑问能够加入他们二十年——任何给定时间四个小时，促使他们尽早命名一天。

Mr. Weston’s ball was to be a real thing. A very few to-morrows stood between the young people of Highbury and happiness.
韦斯顿先生的舞会是真实的。海布里的年轻人离幸福还有很短的明天。

Mr. Woodhouse was resigned. The time of year lightened the evil to him. May was better for every thing than February. Mrs. Bates was engaged to spend the evening at Hartfield, James had due notice, and he sanguinely hoped that neither dear little Henry nor dear little John would have any thing the matter with them, while dear Emma were gone.
伍德豪斯先生辞职了。一年中的这个时候减轻了他的邪恶。五月在各方面都比二月更好。贝茨夫人订婚要在哈特菲尔德过夜，詹姆斯已经得到了适当的通知，他乐观地希望亲爱的小亨利和亲爱的小约翰都不会与他们有任何问题，而亲爱的艾玛走了。

Chapter II
第二章

No misfortune occurred, again to prevent the ball. The day approached, the day arrived; and after a morning of some anxious watching, Frank Churchill, in all the certainty of his own self, reached Randalls before dinner, and every thing was safe.
没有什么不幸的事情发生，球再次被阻止。那一天临近了，那一天到来了；经过一上午的焦急监视后，弗兰克·丘吉尔确信自己在晚饭前到达了兰德尔斯，一切都很安全。

No second meeting had there yet been between him and Emma. The room at the Crown was to witness it;—but it would be better than a common meeting in a crowd. Mr. Weston had been so very earnest in his entreaties for her arriving there as soon as possible after themselves, for the purpose of taking her opinion as to the propriety and comfort of the rooms before any other persons came, that she could not refuse him, and must therefore spend some quiet interval in the young man’s company. She was to convey Harriet, and they drove to the Crown in good time, the Randalls party just sufficiently before them.
他和艾玛之间还没有第二次会面。王宫的房间就是见证这一切的地方；——但这比在人群中举行普通会议要好。韦斯顿先生非常恳切地恳求她尽快到达那里，以便在其他人到来之前听取她对房间是否合适和舒适的意见，因此她无法拒绝他，因此必须在年轻人的陪伴下度过一段安静的时光。她要送哈里特，他们及时开车前往王室，兰德尔一行人就在他们前面。

Frank Churchill seemed to have been on the watch; and though he did not say much, his eyes declared that he meant to have a delightful evening. They all walked about together, to see that every thing was as it should be; and within a few minutes were joined by the contents of another carriage, which Emma could not hear the sound of at first, without great surprize. ‘So unreasonably early!’ she was going to exclaim; but she presently found that it was a family of old friends, who were coming, like herself, by particular desire, to help Mr. Weston’s judgment; and they were so very closely followed by another carriage of cousins, who had been entreated to come early with the same distinguishing earnestness, on the same errand, that it seemed as if half the company might soon be collected together for the purpose of preparatory inspection.
弗兰克·丘吉尔似乎一直在警惕。虽然他没有多说什么，但他的眼神表明他打算度过一个愉快的夜晚。他们一起走来走去，看看一切是否都按其应有的样子进行。几分钟之内，另一辆马车里的东西也加入了进来，艾玛一开始没有听到马车的声音，这并不令人感到非常惊讶。 “这么早，太不合理了！”她正要惊呼。但她很快发现这是一个老朋友的家庭，他们和她一样，出于特殊的愿望而来，以帮助韦斯顿先生做出判断。他们紧随其后的是另一辆表兄弟车，他们被恳求早点来，带着同样的真诚，执行同一个任务，似乎半个公司很快就会聚集在一起进行准备检查。

Emma perceived that her taste was not the only taste on which Mr. Weston depended, and felt, that to be the favourite and intimate of a man who had so many intimates and confidantes, was not the very first distinction in the scale of vanity. She liked his open manners, but a little less of open-heartedness would have made him a higher character.—General benevolence, but not general friendship, made a man what he ought to be.— She could fancy such a man. The whole party walked about, and looked, and praised again; and then, having nothing else to do, formed a sort of half-circle round the fire, to observe in their various modes, till other subjects were started, that, though May, a fire in the evening was still very pleasant.
艾玛意识到，她的品味并不是韦斯顿先生所依赖的唯一品味，并且觉得，成为一个拥有如此多知己和知己的男人的最爱和亲密者，并不是虚荣心的首要区别。她喜欢他开朗的举止，但稍微少一点开朗的话，他的品格就会更高。——一般的仁慈，而不是一般的友谊，才能使一个人成为他应有的样子。——她可以喜欢这样的一个男人。一行人又走又看，又称赞；然后，无事可做，围着火围成半圆，以各种方式观察，直到开始其他主题，尽管是五月，晚上的火仍然是非常令人愉快的。

Emma found that it was not Mr. Weston’s fault that the number of privy councillors was not yet larger. They had stopped at Mrs. Bates’s door to offer the use of their carriage, but the aunt and niece were to be brought by the Eltons.
艾玛发现枢密院议员的人数还没有增加，这并不是韦斯顿先生的错。他们在贝茨夫人家门口停下来，愿意使用他们的马车，但阿姨和侄女将由埃尔顿夫妇带来。

Frank was standing by her, but not steadily; there was a restlessness, which shewed a mind not at ease. He was looking about, he was going to the door, he was watching for the sound of other carriages,— impatient to begin, or afraid of being always near her.
弗兰克站在她身边，但并不坚定。有一种焦躁不安的情绪，说明心里不踏实。他四处张望，他正向门口走去，他在留意其他车厢的声音——不耐烦地开始，或者害怕总是靠近她。

Mrs. Elton was spoken of. ‘I think she must be here soon,’ said he. ‘I have a great curiosity to see Mrs. Elton, I have heard so much of her. It cannot be long, I think, before she comes.’
有人谈到了埃尔顿夫人。 “我想她一定很快就到了，”他说。 “我非常想见到埃尔顿夫人，我听说过她很多。我想，她来的时间不会太长。

A carriage was heard. He was on the move immediately; but coming back, said,
传来马车声。他立刻就出发了。但回来后说，

‘I am forgetting that I am not acquainted with her. I have never seen either Mr. or Mrs. Elton. I have no business to put myself forward.’
“我忘了我和她不认识。我从未见过埃尔顿先生或埃尔顿夫人。我没有义务推销自己。

Mr. and Mrs. Elton appeared; and all the smiles and the proprieties passed.
埃尔顿先生和夫人出现了；所有的微笑和礼节都过去了。

‘But Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax!’ said Mr. Weston, looking about. ‘We thought you were to bring them.’
“但是贝茨小姐和费尔法克斯小姐！”韦斯顿先生环顾四周说道。 “我们以为你会带来它们。”

The mistake had been slight. The carriage was sent for them now. Emma longed to know what Frank’s first opinion of Mrs. Elton might be; how he was affected by the studied elegance of her dress, and her smiles of graciousness. He was immediately qualifying himself to form an opinion, by giving her very proper attention, after the introduction had passed.
这个错误是轻微的。马车已经派人来接他们了。艾玛很想知道弗兰克对埃尔顿夫人的第一印象是什么。他是如何被她精心设计的优雅服饰和她亲切的微笑所影响的。介绍结束后，他立即给予了她适当的关注，从而使自己有资格形成自己的意见。

In a few minutes the carriage returned.—Somebody talked of rain.— ‘I will see that there are umbrellas, sir,’ said Frank to his father: ‘Miss Bates must not be forgotten:’ and away he went. Mr. Weston was following; but Mrs. Elton detained him, to gratify him by her opinion of his son; and so briskly did she begin, that the young man himself, though by no means moving slowly, could hardly be out of hearing.
几分钟后，马车回来了。——有人说要下雨了。——“我会看看有雨伞的，先生，”弗兰克对他的父亲说，“决不能忘记贝茨小姐。”然后他就走了。韦斯顿先生紧随其后。但埃尔顿夫人扣留了他，以让他满意她对儿子的看法。她开始说得如此轻快，以至于年轻人本人虽然动作并不缓慢，但几乎无法听不见。

‘A very fine young man indeed, Mr. Weston. You know I candidly told you I should form my own opinion; and I am happy to say that I am extremely pleased with him.—You may believe me. I never compliment. I think him a very handsome young man, and his manners are precisely what I like and approve—so truly the gentleman, without the least conceit or puppyism. You must know I have a vast dislike to puppies— quite a horror of them. They were never tolerated at Maple Grove. Neither Mr. Suckling nor me had ever any patience with them; and we used sometimes to say very cutting things! Selina, who is mild almost to a fault, bore with them much better.’
“韦斯顿先生，确实是一位非常优秀的年轻人。你知道我坦率地告诉过你我应该形成自己的观点；我很高兴地说我对他非常满意。——你可能相信我。我从不赞美。我觉得他是一个非常英俊的年轻人，他的举止正是我所喜欢和认可的——真正的绅士，没有丝毫的自负和小狗主义。你一定知道我非常不喜欢小狗——非常害怕它们。他们在枫林从来不被容忍。萨克林先生和我对他们都没有任何耐心。我们有时会说一些非常尖锐的话！塞琳娜性格温和，几乎到了过分的地步，她更能忍受他们。

While she talked of his son, Mr. Weston’s attention was chained; but when she got to Maple Grove, he could recollect that there were ladies just arriving to be attended to, and with happy smiles must hurry away.
当她谈论他的儿子时，韦斯顿先生的注意力被束缚了。但当她到了枫树林时，他才想起刚刚有女士要来照顾，必须带着幸福的微笑赶紧走开。

Mrs. Elton turned to Mrs. Weston. ‘I have no doubt of its being our carriage with Miss Bates and Jane. Our coachman and horses are so extremely expeditious!—I believe we drive faster than any body.— What a pleasure it is to send one’s carriage for a friend!— I understand you were so kind as to offer, but another time it will be quite unnecessary. You may be very sure I shall always take care of them.’
埃尔顿夫人转向韦斯顿夫人。 “我毫不怀疑这就是我们与贝茨小姐和简一起的马车。我们的车夫和马匹都非常敏捷！——我相信我们开得比任何人都快。——为朋友送马车是多么愉快的事情啊！——我知道你好心愿意提供，但下次再说吧完全没有必要。你可能非常确定我会永远照顾他们。

Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax, escorted by the two gentlemen, walked into the room; and Mrs. Elton seemed to think it as much her duty as Mrs. Weston’s to receive them. Her gestures and movements might be understood by any one who looked on like Emma; but her words, every body’s words, were soon lost under the incessant flow of Miss Bates, who came in talking, and had not finished her speech under many minutes after her being admitted into the circle at the fire. As the door opened she was heard,
贝茨小姐和费尔法克斯小姐在两位先生的陪同下走进了房间。埃尔顿夫人似乎认为她和韦斯顿夫人一样有责任接待他们。任何一个像艾玛一样在旁观看的人都可以理解她的手势和动作。但她的话，每个人的话，很快就被贝茨小姐的滔滔不绝所淹没了，贝茨小姐进来说话，在她被允许进入火边的圈子后，不到几分钟就没有结束她的演讲。门一打开，就听见她说：

‘So very obliging of you!—No rain at all. Nothing to signify. I do not care for myself. Quite thick shoes. And Jane declares— Well!—(as soon as she was within the door) Well! This is brilliant indeed!—This is admirable!—Excellently contrived, upon my word. Nothing wanting. Could not have imagined it.—So well lighted up!— Jane, Jane, look!—did you ever see any thing? Oh! Mr. Weston, you must really have had Aladdin’s lamp. Good Mrs. Stokes would not know her own room again. I saw her as I came in; she was standing in the entrance. ‘Oh! Mrs. Stokes,’ said I— but I had not time for more.’ She was now met by Mrs. Weston.— ‘Very well, I thank you, ma’am. I hope you are quite well. Very happy to hear it. So afraid you might have a headach!— seeing you pass by so often, and knowing how much trouble you must have. Delighted to hear it indeed. Ah! dear Mrs. Elton, so obliged to you for the carriage!—excellent time. Jane and I quite ready. Did not keep the horses a moment. Most comfortable carriage.— Oh! and I am sure our thanks are due to you, Mrs. Weston, on that score. Mrs. Elton had most kindly sent Jane a note, or we should have been.— But two such offers in one day!—Never were such neighbours. I said to my mother, ‘Upon my word, ma’am—.’ Thank you, my mother is remarkably well. Gone to Mr. Woodhouse’s. I made her take her shawl—for the evenings are not warm—her large new shawl— Mrs. Dixon’s wedding-present.—So kind of her to think of my mother! Bought at Weymouth, you know—Mr. Dixon’s choice. There were three others, Jane says, which they hesitated about some time. Colonel Campbell rather preferred an olive. My dear Jane, are you sure you did not wet your feet?—It was but a drop or two, but I am so afraid:—but Mr. Frank Churchill was so extremely— and there was a mat to step upon—I shall never forget his extreme politeness.—Oh! Mr. Frank Churchill, I must tell you my mother’s spectacles have never been in fault since; the rivet never came out again. My mother often talks of your good-nature. Does not she, Jane?—Do not we often talk of Mr. Frank Churchill?— Ah! here’s Miss Woodhouse.—Dear Miss Woodhouse, how do you do?— Very well I thank you, quite well. This is meeting quite in fairy-land!— Such a transformation!—Must not compliment, I know (eyeing Emma most complacently)—that would be rude—but upon my word, Miss Woodhouse, you do look—how do you like Jane’s hair?—You are a judge.— She did it all herself. Quite wonderful how she does her hair!— No hairdresser from London I think could.—Ah! Dr. Hughes I declare— and Mrs. Hughes. Must go and speak to Dr. and Mrs. Hughes for a moment.—How do you do? How do you do?—Very well, I thank you. This is delightful, is not it?—Where’s dear Mr. Richard?— Oh! there he is. Don’t disturb him. Much better employed talking to the young ladies. How do you do, Mr. Richard?—I saw you the other day as you rode through the town—Mrs. Otway, I protest!— and good Mr. Otway, and Miss Otway and Miss Caroline.—Such a host of friends!—and Mr. George and Mr. Arthur!—How do you do? How do you all do?—Quite well, I am much obliged to you. Never better.— Don’t I hear another carriage?—Who can this be?—very likely the worthy Coles.—Upon my word, this is charming to be standing about among such friends! And such a noble fire!—I am quite roasted. No coffee, I thank you, for me—never take coffee.—A little tea if you please, sir, by and bye,—no hurry—Oh! here it comes. Every thing so good!’
“真是太好了！——根本没有下雨。”没什么可表示的。我不关心自己。相当厚的鞋子。简宣布——好吧！——（她一进门）好吧！这确实太棒了！——这令人钦佩！——我保证，设计得非常出色。没什么想要的。无法想象。——灯光如此明亮！——简，简，看！——你看到了什么吗？哦！韦斯顿先生，您一定有阿拉丁神灯。善良的斯托克斯太太再也不会认识自己的房间了。我一进来就看到了她。她站在入口处。 '哦！斯托克斯太太，”我说——但我没有时间再说了。”现在韦斯顿太太迎接了她。——“很好，我谢谢你，女士。我希望你一切都好。很高兴听到这个消息。真怕你头疼！——看见你这么频繁地经过，就知道你一定有多少烦恼。确实很高兴听到。啊!亲爱的埃尔顿夫人，非常感谢您派来的马车！——美好的时光。简和我已经准备好了。一刻也没有留马。最舒服的车厢。——哦！我确信在这一点上我们要感谢你，韦斯顿夫人。埃尔顿夫人非常好心地给简寄了一张便条，否则我们就应该这样做。——但是一天之内就收到了两个这样的邀请！——从来没有这样的邻居。我对母亲说：“我保证，女士——”谢谢你，我母亲的情况非常好。去了伍德豪斯先生家。我让她带上她的披肩——因为晚上不暖和——她的大新披肩——狄克逊夫人的结婚礼物。——她真是太好了，想到了我的母亲！你知道，是在韦茅斯买的——先生。狄克逊的选择。简说，还有另外三个，他们犹豫了一段时间。坎贝尔上校更喜欢橄榄。我亲爱的简，你确定你没有弄湿你的脚吗？——只是一两滴，但我很害怕：——但是先生。 弗兰克·丘吉尔是如此极端——而且有垫子可以踩——我永远不会忘记他极端的礼貌。——哦！弗兰克·丘吉尔先生，我必须告诉你，从那以后我母亲的眼镜就再也没有出过问题。铆钉再也没有出来。我妈妈经常说起你的善良。她不是吗，简？——我们不是经常谈论弗兰克·丘吉尔先生吗？——啊！这是伍德豪斯小姐。——亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，你好吗？——很好，我谢谢你，很好。这简直是​​在仙境中相会！——如此巨大的转变！——绝对不能恭维，我知道（最得意地看着艾玛）——那会很粗鲁——但是说实话，伍德豪斯小姐，你看起来确实——你喜欢简的吗？头发？——你是法官。——这一切都是她自己做的。她的发型真是太棒了！——我想伦敦的理发师都做不到。——啊！我宣布休斯博士——还有休斯夫人。必须去跟休斯博士和夫人聊一会儿。——你们好吗？你好吗？——很好，谢谢你。这真令人高兴，不是吗？——亲爱的理查德先生在哪儿？——噢！他在那。不要打扰他。更好地与年轻女士交谈。你好吗，理查德先生？——那天你骑马穿过小镇时我看见你了——理查德太太。奥特威，我抗议！——还有好奥特威先生、奥特威小姐和卡罗琳小姐。——这么多朋友！——还有乔治先生和阿瑟先生！——你好吗？你们都好吗？——很好，我非常感谢你们。再好不过了。—我没听到另一辆马车的声音吗？—这是谁？—很可能是值得尊敬的科尔斯。—据我所知，站在这样的朋友中间真是太迷人了！还有如此高贵的火焰！——我被烤焦了。没有咖啡，我谢谢你，为我——永远不要喝咖啡。——请喝一点茶，先生，再见，——不着急——哦！它来了。一切都那么好！’

Frank Churchill returned to his station by Emma; and as soon as Miss Bates was quiet, she found herself necessarily overhearing the discourse of Mrs. Elton and Miss Fairfax, who were standing a little way behind her.—He was thoughtful. Whether he were overhearing too, she could not determine. After a good many compliments to Jane on her dress and look, compliments very quietly and properly taken, Mrs. Elton was evidently wanting to be complimented herself— and it was, ‘How do you like my gown?—How do you like my trimming?— How has Wright done my hair?’—with many other relative questions, all answered with patient politeness. Mrs. Elton then said, ‘Nobody can think less of dress in general than I do—but upon such an occasion as this, when every body’s eyes are so much upon me, and in compliment to the Westons—who I have no doubt are giving this ball chiefly to do me honour—I would not wish to be inferior to others. And I see very few pearls in the room except mine.— So Frank Churchill is a capital dancer, I understand.—We shall see if our styles suit.—A fine young man certainly is Frank Churchill. I like him very well.’
弗兰克·丘吉尔在艾玛的陪伴下回到了自己的岗位。贝茨小姐一安静下来，她就发现自己必然听到站在她身后不远的埃尔顿夫人和费尔法克斯小姐的谈话。——他若有所思。她无法确定他是否也偷听了。在对简的衣着和外貌进行了多次赞美之后，埃尔顿夫人显然也希望自己也得到赞美——“你喜欢我的礼服吗？——你喜欢我的剪裁吗？” “赖特是怎么给我做头发的？”——还有许多其他相关问题，都得到了耐心和礼貌的回答。埃尔顿夫人接着说：“没有人比我更看重着装了——但是在这样的场合，每个人的目光都集中在我身上，并向韦斯顿夫妇致敬——我相信他们就是韦斯顿夫妇。”举办这个舞会主要是为了给我带来荣誉——我不想比别人低人一等。除了我的以外，我在房间里看到的珍珠很少。——所以弗兰克·丘吉尔是一位顶级舞者，我明白。——我们将看看我们的风格是否适合。——弗兰克·丘吉尔无疑是一个优秀的年轻人。我非常喜欢他。

At this moment Frank began talking so vigorously, that Emma could not but imagine he had overheard his own praises, and did not want to hear more;—and the voices of the ladies were drowned for a while, till another suspension brought Mrs. Elton’s tones again distinctly forward.—Mr. Elton had just joined them, and his wife was exclaiming,
就在这时，弗兰克开始滔滔不绝地说话，爱玛忍不住想像他无意中听到了自己的赞美，不想再听到更多了；——女士们的声音暂时被淹没了，直到另一次暂停带来了埃尔顿夫人的声音。语气再次明显向前。——先生。埃尔顿刚刚加入他们，他的妻子惊呼道：

‘Oh! you have found us out at last, have you, in our seclusion?— I was this moment telling Jane, I thought you would begin to be impatient for tidings of us.’
'哦！你终于在我们的隐居中找到了我们，是吗？——我此刻正在告诉简，我以为你会开始不耐烦地听到我们的消息。

‘Jane!’—repeated Frank Churchill, with a look of surprize and displeasure.— ‘That is easy—but Miss Fairfax does not disapprove it, I suppose.’
“简！”——弗兰克·丘吉尔重复道，脸上带着惊讶和不满的表情。——“这很容易——但我想费尔法克斯小姐并不反对。”

‘How do you like Mrs. Elton?’ said Emma in a whisper.
“你觉得埃尔顿夫人怎么样？”艾玛低声问道。

‘Not at all.’
'一点也不。'

‘You are ungrateful.’
“你忘恩负义。”

‘Ungrateful!—What do you mean?’ Then changing from a frown to a smile—‘No, do not tell me—I do not want to know what you mean.— Where is my father?—When are we to begin dancing?’
“忘恩负义！——你什么意思？”然后从皱眉变成微笑——“不，不要告诉我——我不想知道你的意思。——我父亲在哪里？——我们什么时候开始跳舞？

Emma could hardly understand him; he seemed in an odd humour. He walked off to find his father, but was quickly back again with both Mr. and Mrs. Weston. He had met with them in a little perplexity, which must be laid before Emma. It had just occurred to Mrs. Weston that Mrs. Elton must be asked to begin the ball; that she would expect it; which interfered with all their wishes of giving Emma that distinction.—Emma heard the sad truth with fortitude.
艾玛几乎听不懂他的话。他的心情似乎很奇怪。他去找父亲，但很快又带着韦斯顿夫妇回来了。他见到他们时感到有点困惑，这肯定摆在艾玛面前。韦斯顿夫人突然想到必须请埃尔顿夫人开始舞会。她会预料到这一点；这干扰了他们给予艾玛这种区别的所有愿望。——艾玛坚强地听到了这个悲伤的事实。

‘And what are we to do for a proper partner for her?’ said Mr. Weston. ‘She will think Frank ought to ask her.’
“那么我们该怎么做才能为她找到合适的伴侣呢？”韦斯顿先生说。 “她会认为弗兰克应该问她。”

Frank turned instantly to Emma, to claim her former promise; and boasted himself an engaged man, which his father looked his most perfect approbation of—and it then appeared that Mrs. Weston was wanting him to dance with Mrs. Elton himself, and that their business was to help to persuade him into it, which was done pretty soon.— Mr. Weston and Mrs. Elton led the way, Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse followed. Emma must submit to stand second to Mrs. Elton, though she had always considered the ball as peculiarly for her. It was almost enough to make her think of marrying. Mrs. Elton had undoubtedly the advantage, at this time, in vanity completely gratified; for though she had intended to begin with Frank Churchill, she could not lose by the change. Mr. Weston might be his son’s superior.— In spite of this little rub, however, Emma was smiling with enjoyment, delighted to see the respectable length of the set as it was forming, and to feel that she had so many hours of unusual festivity before her.— She was more disturbed by Mr. Knightley’s not dancing than by any thing else.—There he was, among the standers-by, where he ought not to be; he ought to be dancing,—not classing himself with the husbands, and fathers, and whist-players, who were pretending to feel an interest in the dance till their rubbers were made up,—so young as he looked!— He could not have appeared to greater advantage perhaps anywhere, than where he had placed himself. His tall, firm, upright figure, among the bulky forms and stooping shoulders of the elderly men, was such as Emma felt must draw every body’s eyes; and, excepting her own partner, there was not one among the whole row of young men who could be compared with him.—He moved a few steps nearer, and those few steps were enough to prove in how gentlemanlike a manner, with what natural grace, he must have danced, would he but take the trouble.—Whenever she caught his eye, she forced him to smile; but in general he was looking grave. She wished he could love a ballroom better, and could like Frank Churchill better.— He seemed often observing her. She must not flatter herself that he thought of her dancing, but if he were criticising her behaviour, she did not feel afraid. There was nothing like flirtation between her and her partner. They seemed more like cheerful, easy friends, than lovers. That Frank Churchill thought less of her than he had done, was indubitable.
弗兰克立即转向艾玛，兑现了她之前的承诺。并吹嘘自己是一个订婚的男人，他的父亲对此表示最完美的认可——然后，韦斯顿夫人似乎想让他亲自与埃尔顿夫人跳舞，而他们的任务就是帮助说服他加入，这很快就完成了。——韦斯顿先生和埃尔顿夫人带路，弗兰克·丘吉尔先生和伍德豪斯小姐跟在后面。艾玛必须屈从于埃尔顿夫人，尽管她一直认为这个舞会是她的专属。这几乎足以让她产生结婚的念头。埃尔顿夫人此时无疑占据了优势，她的虚荣心得到了彻底的满足。因为虽然她本来打算从弗兰克·丘吉尔开始，但她不能因为这种改变而失败。韦斯顿先生可能是他儿子的上级。——然而，尽管有这个小小的摩擦，艾玛还是高兴地微笑着，很高兴看到这组正在形成的可观的长度，并感到她有这么多不寻常的时间。节日在她面前。——奈特利先生不跳舞比其他任何事情都让她不安。——他就在那里，在旁观者中间，他不应该在的地方；他应该跳舞，——而不是把自己归入丈夫、父亲和惠斯特玩家的行列，他们假装对舞蹈感兴趣，直到他们的橡皮被补好————他看起来那么年轻！——他不能也许在任何地方，他都比他自己所处的位置更有优势。艾玛认为，他高大、坚挺、挺拔的身材，在年长者魁梧的身躯和驼背中，一定会吸引所有人的目光。而这一排青年中，除了自己的搭档之外，没有一个可以与他相提并论的。——他靠近了几步，那几步就足以证明他跳舞时的举止是多么绅士风度，多么自然优雅，如果他愿意的话。——每当她与他目光对视时，她就强迫他跳起舞来。微笑;但总的来说，他看上去很严肃。她希望他能更喜欢舞厅，更喜欢弗兰克·丘吉尔。——他似乎经常观察她。她不能自以为他想到了她跳舞，但如果他批评她的行为，她也不会感到害怕。她和她的伴侣之间没有什么比调情更好的了。他们看起来更像是开朗、随和的朋友，而不是恋人。毫无疑问，弗兰克·丘吉尔对她的评价比对她的评价要低。

The ball proceeded pleasantly. The anxious cares, the incessant attentions of Mrs. Weston, were not thrown away. Every body seemed happy; and the praise of being a delightful ball, which is seldom bestowed till after a ball has ceased to be, was repeatedly given in the very beginning of the existence of this. Of very important, very recordable events, it was not more productive than such meetings usually are. There was one, however, which Emma thought something of.—The two last dances before supper were begun, and Harriet had no partner;—the only young lady sitting down;— and so equal had been hitherto the number of dancers, that how there could be any one disengaged was the wonder!—But Emma’s wonder lessened soon afterwards, on seeing Mr. Elton sauntering about. He would not ask Harriet to dance if it were possible to be avoided: she was sure he would not—and she was expecting him every moment to escape into the card-room.
舞会进行得很愉快。韦斯顿夫人的焦急关怀和不断的关注并没有消失。每个人看起来都很高兴。自从这个舞会存在之初，人们就不断地称赞它是一个令人愉快的舞会，直到舞会不再存在之后才得到这样的称赞。对于非常重要、非常值得记录的事件，它并不比通常的会议更有成效。然而，有一个，艾玛想到了一些。——晚饭前最后两支舞开始了，哈丽特没有舞伴；——唯一坐下的年轻女士；——到目前为止，舞者的数量如此相等，以至于如何奇怪的是，可能有人不参与其中！——但是不久之后，当艾玛看到埃尔顿先生四处闲逛时，她的惊奇就减少了。如果可以避免的话，他不会邀请哈丽特跳舞：她确信他不会——而且她每时每刻都在期待他逃进棋牌室。

Escape, however, was not his plan. He came to the part of the room where the sitters-by were collected, spoke to some, and walked about in front of them, as if to shew his liberty, and his resolution of maintaining it. He did not omit being sometimes directly before Miss Smith, or speaking to those who were close to her.— Emma saw it. She was not yet dancing; she was working her way up from the bottom, and had therefore leisure to look around, and by only turning her head a little she saw it all. When she was half-way up the set, the whole group were exactly behind her, and she would no longer allow her eyes to watch; but Mr. Elton was so near, that she heard every syllable of a dialogue which just then took place between him and Mrs. Weston; and she perceived that his wife, who was standing immediately above her, was not only listening also, but even encouraging him by significant glances.—The kind-hearted, gentle Mrs. Weston had left her seat to join him and say, ‘Do not you dance, Mr. Elton?’ to which his prompt reply was, ‘Most readily, Mrs. Weston, if you will dance with me.’
然而，逃跑并不是他的计划。他来到房间里围观者聚集的地方，与一些人交谈，然后在他们面前走来走去，仿佛要表明他的自由，以及他维护自由的决心。他并没有忽略有时直接在史密斯小姐面前，或者与那些与她关系密切的人说话。——艾玛看到了。她还没有跳舞；她还没有跳舞。她是从底层往上爬的，所以有闲暇环顾四周，只要稍微转一下头，她就看到了一切。当她走到一半的时候，整个团队都在她身后，她不再让她的眼睛看着；但埃尔顿先生离得很近，她听到了他和韦斯顿夫人之间对话的每一个音节。她发现他的妻子就站在她的正上方，不仅也在听，甚至还用意味深长的眼神鼓励他。——善良、温柔的韦斯顿夫人离开了座位，走到他身边，说道：“埃尔顿先生，你不跳舞吗？”他立即回答道：“韦斯顿夫人，如果你愿意和我跳舞的话，我很愿意。”

‘Me!—oh! no—I would get you a better partner than myself. I am no dancer.’
‘我！——哦！不——我会给你找一个比我更好的伴侣。我不是舞者。

‘If Mrs. Gilbert wishes to dance,’ said he, ‘I shall have great pleasure, I am sure—for, though beginning to feel myself rather an old married man, and that my dancing days are over, it would give me very great pleasure at any time to stand up with an old friend like Mrs. Gilbert.’
“如果吉尔伯特夫人想跳舞，”他说，“我肯定会非常高兴——因为，尽管我开始觉得自己已经是一个已婚老男人了，而且我跳舞的日子已经结束了，但这会给我带来很大的帮助。”很高兴随时能与吉尔伯特夫人这样的老朋友站在一起。

‘Mrs. Gilbert does not mean to dance, but there is a young lady disengaged whom I should be very glad to see dancing—Miss Smith.’ ‘Miss Smith!—oh!—I had not observed.—You are extremely obliging— and if I were not an old married man.—But my dancing days are over, Mrs. Weston. You will excuse me. Any thing else I should be most happy to do, at your command—but my dancing days are over.’
'太太。吉尔伯特并不想跳舞，但是有一位年轻的女士，我应该很高兴看到她跳舞——史密斯小姐。”“史密斯小姐！——哦！——我没有注意到。——你非常乐于助人——如果我我们不是一个已婚的老男人。——但我跳舞的日子已经结束了，韦斯顿夫人。你会原谅我的。任何其他我应该最乐意做的事情，都听从你的命令——但我跳舞的日子已经结束了。

Mrs. Weston said no more; and Emma could imagine with what surprize and mortification she must be returning to her seat. This was Mr. Elton! the amiable, obliging, gentle Mr. Elton.— She looked round for a moment; he had joined Mr. Knightley at a little distance, and was arranging himself for settled conversation, while smiles of high glee passed between him and his wife.
韦斯顿夫人不再说话。艾玛可以想象她回到座位时一定会感到多么惊讶和羞愧。这是埃尔顿先生！和蔼可亲、乐于助人、温柔的埃尔顿先生。——她环顾四周；他在稍远的地方加入了奈特利先生，正在安排自己进行安定的谈话，而他和他的妻子之间则洋溢着愉快的微笑。

She would not look again. Her heart was in a glow, and she feared her face might be as hot.
她不会再看。她心里一热，生怕自己的脸也这么烫。

In another moment a happier sight caught her;—Mr. Knightley leading Harriet to the set!—Never had she been more surprized, seldom more delighted, than at that instant. She was all pleasure and gratitude, both for Harriet and herself, and longed to be thanking him; and though too distant for speech, her countenance said much, as soon as she could catch his eye again.
过了一会儿，她看到了更加幸福的景象；——奈特利领着哈丽特来到片场！——那一刻，她从未如此惊讶，也从未如此高兴。她对哈丽雅特和她自己都感到非常高兴和感激，并且渴望感谢他。虽然距离太远，无法说话，但当她再次与他对视时，她的表情就说明了很多事情。

His dancing proved to be just what she had believed it, extremely good; and Harriet would have seemed almost too lucky, if it had not been for the cruel state of things before, and for the very complete enjoyment and very high sense of the distinction which her happy features announced. It was not thrown away on her, she bounded higher than ever, flew farther down the middle, and was in a continual course of smiles.
事实证明，他的舞蹈正如她所相信的那样，非常好。哈丽特看起来几乎太幸运了，如果不是因为之前发生的残酷的事情，以及因为她幸福的面容所宣布的非常彻底的享受和非常高的区别感。它并没有被扔到她身上，她比以前弹得更高，在中间飞得更远，而且脸上一直挂着微笑。

Mr. Elton had retreated into the card-room, looking (Emma trusted) very foolish. She did not think he was quite so hardened as his wife, though growing very like her;—she spoke some of her feelings, by observing audibly to her partner,
埃尔顿先生退进了棋牌室，看起来（艾玛相信）非常愚蠢。她不认为他像他的妻子那么冷酷，尽管她成长得非常像她；——她通过对她的伴侣进行有声观察，说出了她的一些感受，

‘Knightley has taken pity on poor little Miss Smith!—Very goodnatured, I declare.’
“奈特利很同情可怜的小史密斯小姐！——我声明，她脾气很好。”

Supper was announced. The move began; and Miss Bates might be heard from that moment, without interruption, till her being seated at table and taking up her spoon.
晚饭宣布了。行动开始了；从那一刻起，贝茨小姐的声音就可以不间断地被听到，直到她坐在桌边拿起勺子。

‘Jane, Jane, my dear Jane, where are you?—Here is your tippet. Mrs. Weston begs you to put on your tippet. She says she is afraid there will be draughts in the passage, though every thing has been done—One door nailed up—Quantities of matting—My dear Jane, indeed you must. Mr. Churchill, oh! you are too obliging! How well you put it on!—so gratified! Excellent dancing indeed!— Yes, my dear, I ran home, as I said I should, to help grandmama to bed, and got back again, and nobody missed me.—I set off without saying a word, just as I told you. Grandmama was quite well, had a charming evening with Mr. Woodhouse, a vast deal of chat, and backgammon.—Tea was made downstairs, biscuits and baked apples and wine before she came away: amazing luck in some of her throws: and she inquired a great deal about you, how you were amused, and who were your partners. ‘Oh!’ said I, ‘I shall not forestall Jane; I left her dancing with Mr. George Otway; she will love to tell you all about it herself to-morrow: her first partner was Mr. Elton, I do not know who will ask her next, perhaps Mr. William Cox.’ My dear sir, you are too obliging.—Is there nobody you would not rather?—I am not helpless. Sir, you are most kind. Upon my word, Jane on one arm, and me on the other!—Stop, stop, let us stand a little back, Mrs. Elton is going; dear Mrs. Elton, how elegant she looks!—Beautiful lace!—Now we all follow in her train. Quite the queen of the evening!—Well, here we are at the passage. Two steps, Jane, take care of the two steps. Oh! no, there is but one. Well, I was persuaded there were two. How very odd! I was convinced there were two, and there is but one. I never saw any thing equal to the comfort and style—Candles everywhere.—I was telling you of your grandmama, Jane,—There was a little disappointment.— The baked apples and biscuits, excellent in their way, you know; but there was a delicate fricassee of sweetbread and some asparagus brought in at first, and good Mr. Woodhouse, not thinking the asparagus quite boiled enough, sent it all out again. Now there is nothing grandmama loves better than sweetbread and asparagus— so she was rather disappointed, but we agreed we would not speak of it to any body, for fear of its getting round to dear Miss Woodhouse, who would be so very much concerned!—Well, this is brilliant! I am all amazement! could not have supposed any thing!—Such elegance and profusion!—I have seen nothing like it since— Well, where shall we sit? where shall we sit? Anywhere, so that Jane is not in a draught. Where I sit is of no consequence. Oh! do you recommend this side?—Well, I am sure, Mr. Churchill— only it seems too good—but just as you please. What you direct in this house cannot be wrong. Dear Jane, how shall we ever recollect half the dishes for grandmama? Soup too! Bless me! I should not be helped so soon, but it smells most excellent, and I cannot help beginning.’
“简，简，我亲爱的简，你在哪里？——这是你的披肩。韦斯顿夫人恳求你穿上披肩。她说她担心通道里会有气流，尽管一切都已经完成了——一扇门钉好了——大量的垫子——亲爱的简，确实你必须这样做。丘吉尔先生，哦！你太客气了！你穿得真好！——太高兴了！确实跳得很棒！——是的，亲爱的，我跑回家，正如我所说的，帮助奶奶上床睡觉，然后又回来了，没有人想念我。——我一言不发地出发了，就像我告诉你的那样。奶奶身体很好，和伍德豪斯先生度过了一个愉快的夜晚，聊了很多，还玩了西洋双陆棋。——在她离开之前，楼下泡了茶、饼干、烤苹果和酒：她的一些投掷运气令人惊叹：她问了很多关于你的事情，你是如何开心的，以及你的伙伴是谁。 “哦！”我说，“我不会抢先简；我让她和乔治·奥特威先生一起跳舞。她明天很乐意亲自告诉您这一切：她的第一个搭档是埃尔顿先生，我不知道下一个会问她的人是谁，也许是威廉·考克斯先生。“亲爱的先生，您太客气了。——是吗？”没有人是你不愿意的吗？——我并非无助。先生，您真是太仁慈了。听我的话，简在一只手臂上，我在另一只手臂上！——停下来，停下来，让我们往后站一点，埃尔顿夫人要走了；亲爱的埃尔顿夫人，她看起来多么优雅！——美丽的蕾丝！——现在我们都跟随她的脚步。真是当晚的女王！——好了，我们到了过道了。两步，简，注意这两步。哦！不，只有一个。好吧，我确信有两个。多么奇怪啊！我确信有两个，但实际上只有一个。我从未见过任何东西能与舒适和时尚相媲美——到处都是蜡烛。-我正在告诉你你的祖母，简，-有一点失望。-烤苹果和饼干，在他们的方式上很棒，你知道；不过，一开始送来的是一份精致的牛杂碎煎饼和一些芦笋，好心的伍德豪斯先生认为芦笋煮得不够熟，于是又把它们全部送了出去。现在，没有什么比奶奶和芦笋更喜欢的了——所以她相当失望，但我们同意不会向任何人谈论这件事，因为担心这件事会传到亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐那里，她会非常担心！ ——嗯，这太棒了！我都惊呆了！无法想象任何事情！——如此优雅和丰富！——从那以后我再也没有见过类似的东西——那么，我们应该坐在哪里？我们该坐在哪里？任何地方，让简不处于通风之中。我坐在哪里并不重要。哦！你推荐这一面吗？——嗯，我确信，丘吉尔先生——只是它看起来太好了——但随你便。你在这所房子里所指挥的不可能是错的。亲爱的简，我们怎样才能记住给奶奶做的一半菜呢？还有汤！保佑我（宗教！我不应该这么快就得到帮助，但它闻起来非常好，我忍不住开始。’

Emma had no opportunity of speaking to Mr. Knightley till after supper; but, when they were all in the ballroom again, her eyes invited him irresistibly to come to her and be thanked. He was warm in his reprobation of Mr. Elton’s conduct; it had been unpardonable rudeness; and Mrs. Elton’s looks also received the due share of censure.
直到晚饭后，艾玛才有机会与奈特利先生交谈。但是，当他们再次来到舞厅时，她的眼睛不可抗拒地邀请他来到她身边并接受感谢。他对埃尔顿先生的行为表示强烈谴责。这是不可原谅的粗鲁行为；埃尔顿夫人的外表也受到了应有的谴责。

‘They aimed at wounding more than Harriet,’ said he. ‘Emma, why is it that they are your enemies?’
“他们的目的不仅仅是伤害哈丽特，”他说。 “艾玛，为什么他们是你的敌人？”

He looked with smiling penetration; and, on receiving no answer, added, ‘She ought not to be angry with you, I suspect, whatever he may be.—To that surmise, you say nothing, of course; but confess, Emma, that you did want him to marry Harriet.’
他面带微笑，目光透彻。在没有得到答复后，她又补充道：“我怀疑，无论他是什么人，她都不应该生你的气。——当然，对于这个猜测，你什么也没说；因为你知道，她不应该生你的气。”但艾玛，你得承认，你确实希望他娶哈丽特。”

‘I did,’ replied Emma, ‘and they cannot forgive me.’
“我确实这么做了，”艾玛回答道，“但他们无法原谅我。”

He shook his head; but there was a smile of indulgence with it, and he only said,
他摇摇头；但脸上却带着一丝纵容的微笑，他只是说道：

‘I shall not scold you. I leave you to your own reflections.’
‘我不会骂你。我让你自己思考。

‘Can you trust me with such flatterers?—Does my vain spirit ever tell me I am wrong?’
“你能相信我会有这样的奉承者吗？——我虚荣的精神有没有告诉我我错了？”

‘Not your vain spirit, but your serious spirit.—If one leads you wrong, I am sure the other tells you of it.’
“不是你虚荣的精神，而是你严肃的精神。——如果一个人把你引向错误，我相信另一个人也会告诉你。”

‘I do own myself to have been completely mistaken in Mr. Elton. There is a littleness about him which you discovered, and which I did not: and I was fully convinced of his being in love with Harriet. It was through a series of strange blunders!’
“我承认自己对埃尔顿先生的看法完全错误。他身上有一些你发现的小事，而我却没有发现：我完全相信他爱上了哈丽特。这是由于一系列奇怪的错误造成的！”

‘And, in return for your acknowledging so much, I will do you the justice to say, that you would have chosen for him better than he has chosen for himself.—Harriet Smith has some first-rate qualities, which Mrs. Elton is totally without. An unpretending, single-minded, artless girl— infinitely to be preferred by any man of sense and taste to such a woman as Mrs. Elton. I found Harriet more conversable than I expected.’
“而且，作为对你如此认可的回报，我会公正地告诉你，你为他选择的会比他为自己选择的更好。——哈丽特·史密斯有一些一流的品质，埃尔顿夫人就是这样。”完全没有。一个朴实无华、专一、天真的女孩——任何有理智、有品位的男人都会比埃尔顿夫人这样的女人更喜欢她。我发现哈丽特比我想象的更健谈。

Emma was extremely gratified.—They were interrupted by the bustle of Mr. Weston calling on every body to begin dancing again.
艾玛非常高兴。——他们被韦斯顿先生呼吁大家重新开始跳舞的喧闹声打断了。

‘Come Miss Woodhouse, Miss Otway, Miss Fairfax, what are you all doing?— Come Emma, set your companions the example. Every body is lazy! Every body is asleep!’
“来吧，伍德豪斯小姐、奥特威小姐、费尔法克斯小姐，你们都在做什么？——来吧，艾玛，为你们的同伴树立榜样。”每个人的身体都是懒惰的！每个人都在睡觉！’

‘I am ready,’ said Emma, ‘whenever I am wanted.’
“我已经准备好了，”艾玛说，“只要有人需要我。”

‘Whom are you going to dance with?’ asked Mr. Knightley.
“你要和谁跳舞？”奈特利先生问道。

She hesitated a moment, and then replied, ‘With you, if you will ask me.’
她犹豫了一下，然后回答道：“如果你愿意的话，就和你一起吧。”

‘Will you?’ said he, offering his hand.
“你愿意吗？”他伸出手说道。

‘Indeed I will. You have shewn that you can dance, and you know we are not really so much brother and sister as to make it at all improper.’
“我确实会的。你已经证明了你可以跳舞，而且你知道我们并不是真正的兄弟姐妹，因此这完全不合适。”

‘Brother and sister! no, indeed.’
‘兄弟姐妹！不，确实如此。

Chapter III
第三章

This little explanation with Mr. Knightley gave Emma considerable pleasure. It was one of the agreeable recollections of the ball, which she walked about the lawn the next morning to enjoy.—She was extremely glad that they had come to so good an understanding respecting the Eltons, and that their opinions of both husband and wife were so much alike; and his praise of Harriet, his concession in her favour, was peculiarly gratifying. The impertinence of the Eltons, which for a few minutes had threatened to ruin the rest of her evening, had been the occasion of some of its highest satisfactions; and she looked forward to another happy result—the cure of Harriet’s infatuation.— From Harriet’s manner of speaking of the circumstance before they quitted the ballroom, she had strong hopes. It seemed as if her eyes were suddenly opened, and she were enabled to see that Mr. Elton was not the superior creature she had believed him. The fever was over, and Emma could harbour little fear of the pulse being quickened again by injurious courtesy. She depended on the evil feelings of the Eltons for supplying all the discipline of pointed neglect that could be farther requisite.—Harriet rational, Frank Churchill not too much in love, and Mr. Knightley not wanting to quarrel with her, how very happy a summer must be before her!
与奈特利先生的这个小小的解释让艾玛感到非常高兴。这是舞会中令人愉快的回忆之一，第二天早上她在草坪上散步，享受着这次舞会。——她非常高兴他们在尊重埃尔顿夫妇方面达成了如此良好的谅解，也很高兴他们对丈夫和妻子的看法非常相似；他对哈丽特的赞扬，他对她的让步，都特别令人欣慰。埃尔顿夫妇的无礼行为，在几分钟内威胁要毁掉她晚上剩下的时间，却成了她最满意的事。她期待着另一个幸福的结果——治愈哈丽特的迷恋。——从哈丽特讲述离开舞厅前的情况的语气来看，她抱有强烈的希望。她的眼睛似乎突然睁开了，她看到埃尔顿先生并不是她所相信的那个高人一等的人。发烧已经退了，艾玛毫不担心脉搏会因为有伤害性的礼貌而再次加快。她依靠埃尔顿夫妇的邪恶感情来提供可能更必要的所有尖锐忽视的纪律。哈丽特理性，弗兰克丘吉尔不太爱，奈特利先生不想与她争吵，多么幸福的一个人夏天一定就在她面前了！

She was not to see Frank Churchill this morning. He had told her that he could not allow himself the pleasure of stopping at Hartfield, as he was to be at home by the middle of the day. She did not regret it.
今天早上她不会去见弗兰克·丘吉尔。他告诉她，他不能让自己有幸在哈特菲尔德停留，因为他要在中午之前回家。她并不后悔。

Having arranged all these matters, looked them through, and put them all to rights, she was just turning to the house with spirits freshened up for the demands of the two little boys, as well as of their grandpapa, when the great iron sweep-gate opened, and two persons entered whom she had never less expected to see together—Frank Churchill, with Harriet leaning on his arm—actually Harriet!—A moment sufficed to convince her that something extraordinary had happened. Harriet looked white and frightened, and he was trying to cheer her.— The iron gates and the front-door were not twenty yards asunder;— they were all three soon in the hall, and Harriet immediately sinking into a chair fainted away.
安排好所有这些事情，仔细检查，并把它们全部纠正后，她正精神焕发地转向房子，满足两个小男孩以及他们爷爷的要求，这时大铁扫过——门打开了，两个人进来了，她从来没想过会看到他们在一起——弗兰克·丘吉尔，哈丽特靠在他的手臂上——实际上是哈丽特！——一瞬间就足以让她相信发生了一些不寻常的事情。哈丽特脸色苍白，惊恐万状，他正试图让她高兴起来。——铁门和前门相距不到二十码；——他们三人很快就到了大厅，哈丽特立即倒在椅子上晕了过去。

A young lady who faints, must be recovered; questions must be answered, and surprizes be explained. Such events are very interesting, but the suspense of them cannot last long. A few minutes made Emma acquainted with the whole.
小姐晕倒了，一定要救回来；必须回答问题，并对惊喜进行解释。此类事件很有趣，但悬念不能持续太久。几分钟后，艾玛就熟悉了整个事情。

Miss Smith, and Miss Bickerton, another parlour boarder at Mrs. Goddard’s, who had been also at the ball, had walked out together, and taken a road, the Richmond road, which, though apparently public enough for safety, had led them into alarm.—About half a mile beyond Highbury, making a sudden turn, and deeply shaded by elms on each side, it became for a considerable stretch very retired; and when the young ladies had advanced some way into it, they had suddenly perceived at a small distance before them, on a broader patch of greensward by the side, a party of gipsies. A child on the watch, came towards them to beg; and Miss Bickerton, excessively frightened, gave a great scream, and calling on Harriet to follow her, ran up a steep bank, cleared a slight hedge at the top, and made the best of her way by a short cut back to Highbury. But poor Harriet could not follow. She had suffered very much from cramp after dancing, and her first attempt to mount the bank brought on such a return of it as made her absolutely powerless— and in this state, and exceedingly terrified, she had been obliged to remain.
史密斯小姐和戈达德夫人家的另一位客厅寄宿生比克顿小姐也参加了舞会，她们一起走出去，走上一条路，里士满路，这条路虽然显然是公共的，为了安全起见，但还是把他们引向了那里。警报。——距离海布里大约半英里，突然转弯，两边都被榆树深深地遮蔽了，在相当长的一段时间内变得非常僻静。当年轻的女士们走进去一段路时，她们突然发现在她们前面不远的地方，在旁边一大片更宽阔的草地上，有一群吉普赛人。一个值班的孩子向他们走来乞讨；比克顿小姐吓坏了，发出一声尖叫，叫哈丽特跟着她，跑上陡峭的河岸，越过山顶的一道小树篱，然后抄近路回到海布里。但可怜的哈丽特无法跟上。跳舞后她抽筋得很厉害，第一次尝试爬上岸时，抽筋又回来了，让她完全无力——在这种状态下，她非常害怕，不得不留下来。

How the trampers might have behaved, had the young ladies been more courageous, must be doubtful; but such an invitation for attack could not be resisted; and Harriet was soon assailed by half a dozen children, headed by a stout woman and a great boy, all clamorous, and impertinent in look, though not absolutely in word.—More and more frightened, she immediately promised them money, and taking out her purse, gave them a shilling, and begged them not to want more, or to use her ill.—She was then able to walk, though but slowly, and was moving away—but her terror and her purse were too tempting, and she was followed, or rather surrounded, by the whole gang, demanding more.
如果年轻女士们更勇敢一点，流浪汉们的表现可能会如何，这肯定是值得怀疑的。但这样的攻击邀请是无法抗拒的。哈丽特很快就遭到了六个孩子的袭击，领头的是一个粗壮的女人和一个大男孩，他们都很吵闹，看上去很无礼，但言语上却并非绝对。——她越来越害怕，立即答应给他们钱，并拿出钱来。她的钱包，给了他们一先令，并恳求他们不要想要更多，或利用她。——然后她能够走路，虽然很慢，然后走开——但她的恐惧和她的钱包太诱人了，她被整个帮派跟踪，或者更确切地说包围，要求更多。

In this state Frank Churchill had found her, she trembling and conditioning, they loud and insolent. By a most fortunate chance his leaving Highbury had been delayed so as to bring him to her assistance at this critical moment. The pleasantness of the morning had induced him to walk forward, and leave his horses to meet him by another road, a mile or two beyond Highbury— and happening to have borrowed a pair of scissors the night before of Miss Bates, and to have forgotten to restore them, he had been obliged to stop at her door, and go in for a few minutes: he was therefore later than he had intended; and being on foot, was unseen by the whole party till almost close to them. The terror which the woman and boy had been creating in Harriet was then their own portion. He had left them completely frightened; and Harriet eagerly clinging to him, and hardly able to speak, had just strength enough to reach Hartfield, before her spirits were quite overcome. It was his idea to bring her to Hartfield: he had thought of no other place.
弗兰克·丘吉尔发现她处于这种状态，她颤抖着，条件反射，他们大声而无礼。幸运的是，他推迟了离开海布里的时间，以便在这个关键时刻为她提供帮助。早晨的愉快心情促使他向前走去，让他的马在距离海布里一两英里的另一条路上与他会合——碰巧前一天晚上向贝茨小姐借了一把剪刀，却忘记了。为了恢复它们，他不得不在她门口停下来，进去几分钟：因此，他比原计划迟到了。由于是步行，直到几乎接近他们时，整个队伍才发现。那个女人和男孩在哈丽特身上制造的恐惧是他们自己的一部分。他让他们彻底害怕了。哈丽雅特急切地抱住他，几乎说不出话来，但她的精神却完全崩溃了，她只有足够的力量到达哈特菲尔德。把她带到哈特菲尔德是他的主意：他没有想到其他地方。

This was the amount of the whole story,—of his communication and of Harriet’s as soon as she had recovered her senses and speech.— He dared not stay longer than to see her well; these several delays left him not another minute to lose; and Emma engaging to give assurance of her safety to Mrs. Goddard, and notice of there being such a set of people in the neighbourhood to Mr. Knightley, he set off, with all the grateful blessings that she could utter for her friend and herself.
这就是整个故事的内容——他的交流以及哈丽雅特恢复理智和言语后的交流。——他不敢停留太久，直到看到她康复为止；他不敢再待太久。这几次延误使他不能再浪费一分钟了。艾玛向戈达德夫人保证自己的安全，并注意到奈特利先生附近有这样一群人，他出发了，带着她能为她的朋友和她自己表达的所有感激的祝福。

Such an adventure as this,—a fine young man and a lovely young woman thrown together in such a way, could hardly fail of suggesting certain ideas to the coldest heart and the steadiest brain. So Emma thought, at least. Could a linguist, could a grammarian, could even a mathematician have seen what she did, have witnessed their appearance together, and heard their history of it, without feeling that circumstances had been at work to make them peculiarly interesting to each other?—How much more must an imaginist, like herself, be on fire with speculation and foresight!—especially with such a groundwork of anticipation as her mind had already made.
这样的冒险，一个优秀的年轻人和一个可爱的年轻女子以这样的方式组合在一起，很难不向最冷酷的心和最稳定的大脑提出某些想法。至少艾玛是这么想的。一个语言学家，一个语法学家，甚至一个数学家是否可以看到她所做的事情，目睹他们一起出现，并听到他们的历史，而不会感觉到环境在起作用，使他们对彼此特别感兴趣？像她这样的想象家更必须充满猜测和远见！——尤其是在她的头脑已经做好了这样的预期基础的情况下。

It was a very extraordinary thing! Nothing of the sort had ever occurred before to any young ladies in the place, within her memory; no rencontre, no alarm of the kind;—and now it had happened to the very person, and at the very hour, when the other very person was chancing to pass by to rescue her!—It certainly was very extraordinary!—And knowing, as she did, the favourable state of mind of each at this period, it struck her the more. He was wishing to get the better of his attachment to herself, she just recovering from her mania for Mr. Elton. It seemed as if every thing united to promise the most interesting consequences. It was not possible that the occurrence should not be strongly recommending each to the other.
这是一件非常不平凡的事情！在她的记忆中，这个地方的年轻女士从来没有发生过这种事。没有交锋，没有那种警报；——现在这件事就发生在这个人身上，而且就在那个时候，另一个人恰巧路过来救她！——这确实是非常不寻常的！——而且知道正如她所做的那样，此时每个人的良好心态，让她更加震惊。他希望克服对自己的依恋，而她刚刚从对埃尔顿先生的狂热中恢复过来。似乎所有的事情都结合在一起，承诺了最有趣的结果。发生这种事不可能不互相强烈推荐。

In the few minutes’ conversation which she had yet had with him, while Harriet had been partially insensible, he had spoken of her terror, her naivete, her fervour as she seized and clung to his arm, with a sensibility amused and delighted; and just at last, after Harriet’s own account had been given, he had expressed his indignation at the abominable folly of Miss Bickerton in the warmest terms. Every thing was to take its natural course, however, neither impelled nor assisted. She would not stir a step, nor drop a hint. No, she had had enough of interference. There could be no harm in a scheme, a mere passive scheme. It was no more than a wish. Beyond it she would on no account proceed.
在她与他进行的几分钟谈话中，虽然哈丽特已经部分失去知觉，但他却谈到了她的恐惧、她的天真，以及她抓住他的手臂时的热情，带着一种被逗乐和高兴的感觉；最后，在哈丽雅特讲述完自己的情况后，他以最热情的措辞表达了他对比克顿小姐的可恶愚蠢行为的愤慨。一切都顺其自然，但既不被推动，也不被协助。她不会迈出一步，也不会留下任何暗示。不，她已经受够了干扰。一个计划不会有什么坏处，只是一个被动的计划。这只不过是一个愿望。除此之外，她绝不会继续下去。

Emma’s first resolution was to keep her father from the knowledge of what had passed,—aware of the anxiety and alarm it would occasion: but she soon felt that concealment must be impossible. Within half an hour it was known all over Highbury. It was the very event to engage those who talk most, the young and the low; and all the youth and servants in the place were soon in the happiness of frightful news. The last night’s ball seemed lost in the gipsies. Poor Mr. Woodhouse trembled as he sat, and, as Emma had foreseen, would scarcely be satisfied without their promising never to go beyond the shrubbery again. It was some comfort to him that many inquiries after himself and Miss Woodhouse (for his neighbours knew that he loved to be inquired after), as well as Miss Smith, were coming in during the rest of the day; and he had the pleasure of returning for answer, that they were all very indifferent— which, though not exactly true, for she was perfectly well, and Harriet not much otherwise, Emma would not interfere with. She had an unhappy state of health in general for the child of such a man, for she hardly knew what indisposition was; and if he did not invent illnesses for her, she could make no figure in a message.
艾玛的第一个决定是不让她父亲知道所发生的事情，因为她知道这会引起焦虑和恐慌：但她很快就觉得隐瞒是不可能的。半小时之内，这件事就传遍了海布里。正是这个活动吸引了那些最常说话的人，无论是年轻人还是底层人士。很快，这个地方的所有年轻人和仆人都为这个可怕的消息感到高兴。昨晚的舞会似乎在吉卜赛人中迷失了。可怜的伍德豪斯先生坐着时浑身发抖，而且，正如艾玛所预见的那样，如果他们不许诺永远不再走出灌木丛，他几乎不会满意。令他感到有些安慰的是，在这一天剩下的时间里，有许多人向他本人和伍德豪斯小姐（因为他的邻居们知道他喜欢被询问）以及史密斯小姐询问。他很高兴回来寻求答复，说他们都很冷漠——这虽然不完全正确，因为她很好，哈丽特也没有什么特别的，艾玛不会干涉。对于这样一个男人的孩子来说，她的健康状况总的来说不太好，因为她几乎不知道什么是身体不适。如果他没有为她发明疾病，她就无法在信息中表达任何意思。

The gipsies did not wait for the operations of justice; they took themselves off in a hurry. The young ladies of Highbury might have walked again in safety before their panic began, and the whole history dwindled soon into a matter of little importance but to Emma and her nephews:—in her imagination it maintained its ground, and Henry and John were still asking every day for the story of Harriet and the gipsies, and still tenaciously setting her right if she varied in the slightest particular from the original recital.
吉普赛人并没有等待正义的伸张。他们匆忙离开。海布里的年轻女士们在恐慌开始之前可能已经安全地再次行走了，整个历史很快就变得无关紧要，但对艾玛和她的侄子们来说：——在她的想象中，它保持着自己的立场，亨利和约翰仍然在每天都会询问哈丽特和吉普赛人的故事，如果她的叙述与最初的叙述有哪怕一丁点的不同，仍然顽强地纠正她。

Chapter IV
第四章

A very few days had passed after this adventure, when Harriet came one morning to Emma with a small parcel in her hand, and after sitting down and hesitating, thus began:
这次冒险之后过了几天，一天早上，哈丽特手里拿着一个小包裹来到艾玛身边，坐下来犹豫了一下，这样开始：

‘Miss Woodhouse—if you are at leisure—I have something that I should like to tell you—a sort of confession to make—and then, you know, it will be over.’
“伍德豪斯小姐——如果你有空的话——我有件事想告诉你——一种坦白——然后，你知道，一切都会结束。”

Emma was a good deal surprized; but begged her to speak. There was a seriousness in Harriet’s manner which prepared her, quite as much as her words, for something more than ordinary.
艾玛非常惊讶。但恳求她说话。哈丽特的态度很严肃，就像她的言语一样，让她做好了应对非同寻常的事情的准备。

‘It is my duty, and I am sure it is my wish,’ she continued, ‘to have no reserves with you on this subject. As I am happily quite an altered creature in one respect, it is very fit that you should have the satisfaction of knowing it. I do not want to say more than is necessary—I am too much ashamed of having given way as I have done, and I dare say you understand me.’
“这是我的责任，而且我相信这也是我的愿望，”她继续说道，“在这个问题上我没有任何保留。”因为我很高兴在某一方面是一个完全改变的生物，所以你应该满意地了解这一点，这是非常合适的。我不想多说——我对自己的让步感到非常羞愧，但我敢说你理解我。

‘Yes,’ said Emma, ‘I hope I do.’
“是的，”艾玛说，“我希望如此。”

‘How I could so long a time be fancying myself! …’ cried Harriet, warmly. ‘It seems like madness! I can see nothing at all extraordinary in him now.—I do not care whether I meet him or not—except that of the two I had rather not see him— and indeed I would go any distance round to avoid him—but I do not envy his wife in the least; I neither admire her nor envy her, as I have done: she is very charming, I dare say, and all that, but I think her very ill-tempered and disagreeable—I shall never forget her look the other night!—However, I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, I wish her no evil.—No, let them be ever so happy together, it will not give me another moment’s pang: and to convince you that I have been speaking truth, I am now going to destroy—what I ought to have destroyed long ago—what I ought never to have kept— I know that very well (blushing as she spoke).—However, now I will destroy it all—and it is my particular wish to do it in your presence, that you may see how rational I am grown. Cannot you guess what this parcel holds?’ said she, with a conscious look.
‘我怎么能这么长时间地幻想自己！ ……”哈丽特热情地喊道。 ‘看来真是疯了！我现在在他身上看不出有什么特别之处。——我不在乎是否见到他——除了那两个人，我宁愿看不见他——事实上，我愿意走很远的路来避开他——但我确实丝毫不嫉妒他的妻子；我既不钦佩她，也不嫉妒她，就像我所做的那样：她非常迷人，我敢说，等等，但我认为她脾气暴躁，令人讨厌——我永远不会忘记那天晚上她的样子！——然而，我向你保证，伍德豪斯小姐，我希望她没有邪恶。——不，让他们永远幸福地在一起，这不会再给我带来片刻的痛苦：为了让你相信我一直在说实话，我现在要摧毁——我早就应该毁掉的东西——我不应该保留的东西——我很清楚（她说的时候脸红了）。——然而，现在我要把它全部毁掉——我特别希望在你的出现，让你看到我变得多么理性。你猜不出这个包裹里装的是什么吗？”她神色清醒地说。

‘Not the least in the world.—Did he ever give you any thing?’
“最重要的是——他给过你什么东西吗？”

‘No—I cannot call them gifts; but they are things that I have valued very much.’
“不——我不能称它们为礼物；但它们是我非常重视的东西。”

She held the parcel towards her, and Emma read the words Most precious treasures on the top. Her curiosity was greatly excited. Harriet unfolded the parcel, and she looked on with impatience. Within abundance of silver paper was a pretty little Tunbridge-ware box, which Harriet opened: it was well lined with the softest cotton; but, excepting the cotton, Emma saw only a small piece of court-plaister.
她把包裹举到面前，艾玛读到了上面写着“最珍贵的宝藏”。她的好奇心被极大地激发了。哈丽特打开包裹，她不耐烦地看着。里面有大量的银纸，里面有一个漂亮的坦布里奇瓷器小盒子，哈丽特打开了它：里面衬着最柔软的棉布；里面有一个小盒子。但是，除了棉花之外，艾玛只看到了一小块宫廷石膏。

‘Now,’ said Harriet, ‘you must recollect.’
“现在，”哈丽特说，“你必须记住。”

‘No, indeed I do not.’
“不，我确实不知道。”

‘Dear me! I should not have thought it possible you could forget what passed in this very room about court-plaister, one of the very last times we ever met in it!—It was but a very few days before I had my sore throat—just before Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley came— I think the very evening.—Do not you remember his cutting his finger with your new penknife, and your recommending court-plaister?— But, as you had none about you, and knew I had, you desired me to supply him; and so I took mine out and cut him a piece; but it was a great deal too large, and he cut it smaller, and kept playing some time with what was left, before he gave it back to me. And so then, in my nonsense, I could not help making a treasure of it— so I put it by never to be used, and looked at it now and then as a great treat.’
'亲爱的我！我没想到你可能会忘记在这个房间里发生的关于宫廷石膏的事情，这是我们最后一次在里面见面！——就在几天前，我喉咙痛了——就在之前约翰·奈特利先生和夫人来了——我想是在晚上。——你不记得他用你的新小刀割伤了手指，还有你推荐的宫廷石膏吗？——但是，因为你对你一无所知，而且知道我有，你希望我供应他；于是我拿出我的，给他切了一块；但它太大了，他把它剪小了，然后把剩下的玩了一会儿，然后才把它还给我。于是，在我的胡言乱语中，我情不自禁地把它当成了宝贝——所以我把它放在永远不会被使用的地方，时不时地把它当作一种伟大的享受。

‘My dearest Harriet!’ cried Emma, putting her hand before her face, and jumping up, ‘you make me more ashamed of myself than I can bear. Remember it? Aye, I remember it all now; all, except your saving this relic—I knew nothing of that till this moment—but the cutting the finger, and my recommending court-plaister, and saying I had none about me!—Oh! my sins, my sins!—And I had plenty all the while in my pocket!—One of my senseless tricks!—I deserve to be under a continual blush all the rest of my life.—Well—(sitting down again)— go on—what else?’
“我最亲爱的哈丽特！”艾玛用手捂住脸，跳了起来，喊道，“你让我为自己感到羞愧得无法忍受。记住它？是的，我现在全都记得了；一切，除了你拯救了这个遗物——直到此刻我对此一无所知——除了割断手指，以及我推荐的宫廷石膏，并说我没有关于我的东西！——哦！我的罪孽，我的罪孽！——我的口袋里一直有很多东西！——我愚蠢的把戏之一！——我应该在我的余生中一直脸红。——好吧——（再次坐下）——继续——还有什么？

‘And had you really some at hand yourself? I am sure I never suspected it, you did it so naturally.’
“你自己手边真的有一些吗？”我确信我从来没有怀疑过，你这么做得很自然。”

‘And so you actually put this piece of court-plaister by for his sake!’ said Emma, recovering from her state of shame and feeling divided between wonder and amusement. And secretly she added to herself, ‘Lord bless me! when should I ever have thought of putting by in cotton a piece of court-plaister that Frank Churchill had been pulling about! I never was equal to this.’
“所以你实际上是为了他才把这块宫廷石膏放在一边的！”艾玛说，她从羞耻感中恢复过来，感到既惊奇又好笑。她暗暗地对自己说：‘愿主保佑我！我什么时候会想到把弗兰克·丘吉尔一直在拉扯的一块宫廷石膏放在棉花里！我从来没有达到过这样的水平。

‘Here,’ resumed Harriet, turning to her box again, ‘here is something still more valuable, I mean that has been more valuable, because this is what did really once belong to him, which the court-plaister never did.’
“这里，”哈丽特继续说道，再次转向她的盒子，“这里有更有价值的东西，我的意思是它更有价值，因为这确实曾经属于他，而宫廷石膏从未拥有过。”

Emma was quite eager to see this superior treasure. It was the end of an old pencil,—the part without any lead.
艾玛非常渴望看到这件上乘的宝藏。那是一支旧铅笔的末端——没有任何铅芯的部分。

‘This was really his,’ said Harriet.—‘Do not you remember one morning?—no, I dare say you do not. But one morning—I forget exactly the day—but perhaps it was the Tuesday or Wednesday before that evening, he wanted to make a memorandum in his pocket-book; it was about spruce-beer. Mr. Knightley had been telling him something about brewing spruce-beer, and he wanted to put it down; but when he took out his pencil, there was so little lead that he soon cut it all away, and it would not do, so you lent him another, and this was left upon the table as good for nothing. But I kept my eye on it; and, as soon as I dared, caught it up, and never parted with it again from that moment.’
“这确实是他的，”哈丽特说。——“你不记得有一天早上吗？——不，我敢说你不记得了。”但是有一天早上——具体是哪一天——我忘了​​——但也许是那天晚上之前的周二或周三，他想在他的皮夹里做一份备忘录；这是关于云杉啤酒的。奈特利先生一直在告诉他一些关于酿造云杉啤酒的事情，他想把它放下。但当他拿出铅笔时，铅芯太少了，他很快就把它全部剪掉了，这不行，所以你又借给他一支，这支就留在桌子上没什么用了。但我一直关注着它；我一鼓起勇气就抓住了它，从那一刻起就再也没有放开过它。

‘I do remember it,’ cried Emma; ‘I perfectly remember it.— Talking about spruce-beer.—Oh! yes—Mr. Knightley and I both saying we liked it, and Mr. Elton’s seeming resolved to learn to like it too. I perfectly remember it.—Stop; Mr. Knightley was standing just here, was not he? I have an idea he was standing just here.’
“我确实记得，”艾玛喊道。 “我完全记得。——谈论云杉啤酒。——哦！是的——先生。奈特利和我都说我们喜欢它，埃尔顿先生似乎也决心学会喜欢它。我记得清清楚楚。——停下来；奈特利先生就站在这里，不是吗？我知道他就站在这里。

‘Ah! I do not know. I cannot recollect.—It is very odd, but I cannot recollect.—Mr. Elton was sitting here, I remember, much about where I am now.’—
'啊！我不知道。我不记得了。——这很奇怪，但我不记得了。——先生。我记得埃尔顿坐在这里，对我现在的处境有很多了解。”

‘Well, go on.’
“好吧，继续吧。”

‘Oh! that’s all. I have nothing more to shew you, or to say— except that I am now going to throw them both behind the fire, and I wish you to see me do it.’
'哦！就这样。我没有什么可以告诉你的，或者说的——除了我现在要把他们俩扔到火后面，我希望你看到我这样做。

‘My poor dear Harriet! and have you actually found happiness in treasuring up these things?’
“我可怜的亲爱的哈丽特！你真的在珍惜这些东西中找到了快乐吗？

‘Yes, simpleton as I was!—but I am quite ashamed of it now, and wish I could forget as easily as I can burn them. It was very wrong of me, you know, to keep any remembrances, after he was married. I knew it was—but had not resolution enough to part with them.’
“是的，像我一样傻瓜！——但我现在对此感到非常羞愧，希望我能像烧掉它们一样轻易地忘记。”你知道，我在他结婚后保留任何回忆是非常错误的。我知道是这样——但没有足够的决心与他们分开。

‘But, Harriet, is it necessary to burn the court-plaister?—I have not a word to say for the bit of old pencil, but the court-plaister might be useful.’
“但是，哈丽特，有必要烧掉宫廷石膏吗？——我对那支旧铅笔无话可说，但宫廷石膏可能有用。”

‘I shall be happier to burn it,’ replied Harriet. ‘It has a disagreeable look to me. I must get rid of every thing.— There it goes, and there is an end, thank Heaven! of Mr. Elton.’
“我会更乐意烧掉它，”哈丽雅特回答道。 “我觉得它看起来很不舒服。我必须摆脱一切。——就这样，一切都结束了，谢天谢地！埃尔顿先生的。

‘And when,’ thought Emma, ‘will there be a beginning of Mr. Churchill?’
“那么，”艾玛想，“丘吉尔先生什么时候才会出现呢？”

She had soon afterwards reason to believe that the beginning was already made, and could not but hope that the gipsy, though she had told no fortune, might be proved to have made Harriet’s.—About a fortnight after the alarm, they came to a sufficient explanation, and quite undesignedly. Emma was not thinking of it at the moment, which made the information she received more valuable. She merely said, in the course of some trivial chat, ‘Well, Harriet, whenever you marry I would advise you to do so and so’—and thought no more of it, till after a minute’s silence she heard Harriet say in a very serious tone, ‘I shall never marry.’
不久之后，她就有理由相信开始已经开始，并且不得不希望吉普赛人，尽管她没有算命，可能被证明已经创造了哈丽特的。——警报发生后大约两周，他们来到了一个充分的解释，而且相当无意。艾玛此刻并没有想到这一点，这使得她收到的信息变得更有价值。她只是在一些琐碎的闲聊中说，“好吧，哈丽特，无论你什么时候结婚，我都会建议你这样做”——然后就不再想了，直到沉默了一分钟后，她听到哈丽特用一种非常含糊的语气说道。语气严肃，“我永远不会结婚。”

Emma then looked up, and immediately saw how it was; and after a moment’s debate, as to whether it should pass unnoticed or not, replied,
艾玛抬起头，立刻就明白了这是怎么回事；经过片刻的辩论，关于这件事是否应该被忽视，回答说：

‘Never marry!—This is a new resolution.’
“永远不要结婚！——这是一个新的决心。”

‘It is one that I shall never change, however.’
“然而，这是我永远不会改变的。”

After another short hesitation, ‘I hope it does not proceed from— I hope it is not in compliment to Mr. Elton?’
又短暂的犹豫之后，“我希望这不是出于……我希望这不是对埃尔顿先生的恭维？”

‘Mr. Elton indeed!’ cried Harriet indignantly.—‘Oh! no’—and Emma could just catch the words, ‘so superior to Mr. Elton!’
'先生。确实是埃尔顿！”哈丽特愤怒地喊道。——“哦！不”——艾玛听出了这句话，“比埃尔顿先生优越得多！”

She then took a longer time for consideration. Should she proceed no farther?—should she let it pass, and seem to suspect nothing?— Perhaps Harriet might think her cold or angry if she did; or perhaps if she were totally silent, it might only drive Harriet into asking her to hear too much; and against any thing like such an unreserve as had been, such an open and frequent discussion of hopes and chances, she was perfectly resolved.— She believed it would be wiser for her to say and know at once, all that she meant to say and know. Plain dealing was always best. She had previously determined how far she would proceed, on any application of the sort; and it would be safer for both, to have the judicious law of her own brain laid down with speed.— She was decided, and thus spoke—
然后她花了更长的时间考虑。她应该不再继续下去吗？——她应该让它过去，并且看起来什么也不怀疑吗？——如果她这样做，也许哈丽特会认为她冷漠或生气；但如果她这样做了，她会觉得她很冷漠或生气；她会认为她很冷漠或生气。或者，如果她完全保持沉默，哈丽特可能只会要求她听得太多。她坚决反对任何像以前那样毫无保留的事情，这样公开而频繁地讨论希望和机会。她相信，对她来说，立即说出并知道她想说的一切对她来说会更明智。并知道。坦诚相待总是最好的。她之前已经决定了对于任何此类申请她将进行到什么程度；她自己脑子里的明智法则迅速制定下来，对双方来说都会更安全。——她下定了决心，于是说道——

‘Harriet, I will not affect to be in doubt of your meaning. Your resolution, or rather your expectation of never marrying, results from an idea that the person whom you might prefer, would be too greatly your superior in situation to think of you. Is not it so?’
“哈丽特，我不会假装怀疑你的意思。你的决心，或者更确切地说，你对永不结婚的期望，源于这样一种想法：你可能喜欢的人在情况上比你优越得多，不会想到你。不是这样吗？

‘Oh! Miss Woodhouse, believe me I have not the presumption to suppose— Indeed I am not so mad.—But it is a pleasure to me to admire him at a distance—and to think of his infinite superiority to all the rest of the world, with the gratitude, wonder, and veneration, which are so proper, in me especially.’
'哦！伍德豪斯小姐，请相信我，我没有冒昧地假设——事实上，我并没有那么疯狂。——但我很高兴能够远远地欣赏他——并想到他比世界上其他所有人都无限优越，带着感激、惊奇和崇敬，这些都是理所当然的，尤其是在我身上。

‘I am not at all surprized at you, Harriet. The service he rendered you was enough to warm your heart.’
“我对你一点也不感到惊讶，哈丽特。他为你提供的服务足以温暖你的心。

‘Service! oh! it was such an inexpressible obligation!— The very recollection of it, and all that I felt at the time— when I saw him coming—his noble look—and my wretchedness before. Such a change! In one moment such a change! From perfect misery to perfect happiness!’
'服务！哦！这是一种难以言喻的义务！——这一切的回忆，以及我当时的感受——当我看到他到来时——他高贵的目光——以及我之前的不幸。这样的改变！一瞬间发生了这样的变化！从完美的痛苦到完美的幸福！’

‘It is very natural. It is natural, and it is honourable.— Yes, honourable, I think, to chuse so well and so gratefully.— But that it will be a fortunate preference is more that I can promise. I do not advise you to give way to it, Harriet. I do not by any means engage for its being returned. Consider what you are about. Perhaps it will be wisest in you to check your feelings while you can: at any rate do not let them carry you far, unless you are persuaded of his liking you. Be observant of him. Let his behaviour be the guide of your sensations. I give you this caution now, because I shall never speak to you again on the subject. I am determined against all interference. Henceforward I know nothing of the matter. Let no name ever pass our lips. We were very wrong before; we will be cautious now.—He is your superior, no doubt, and there do seem objections and obstacles of a very serious nature; but yet, Harriet, more wonderful things have taken place, there have been matches of greater disparity. But take care of yourself. I would not have you too sanguine; though, however it may end, be assured your raising your thoughts to him, is a mark of good taste which I shall always know how to value.’
‘这很自然。这是自然的，也是光荣的。——是的，光荣的，我想，做出如此明智和感激的选择。——但我更能保证的是，这将是一个幸运的选择。我不建议你屈服于它，哈丽特。我无论如何都不会要求它被退回。考虑一下你是做什么的。也许你最明智的做法是在可以的时候检查自己的感受：无论如何，不​​要让它们带你走得太远，除非你确信他喜欢你。观察他。让他的行为成为你感觉的指南。我现在给你这个警告，因为我再也不会和你谈论这个话题了。我坚决反对一切干扰。从此我对此事一无所知。不要让任何名字从我们嘴里说出。我们以前就错了；我们现在要小心了。——毫无疑问，他是你的上级，而且似乎确实存在非常严重的反对和障碍；然而，哈丽特，更奇妙的事情已经发生了，已经出现了差距更大的比赛。但要照顾好自己。我不会让你太乐观；不过，无论结果如何，请放心，你向他提出你的想法，是良好品味的标志，我将永远知道如何评价它。

Harriet kissed her hand in silent and submissive gratitude. Emma was very decided in thinking such an attachment no bad thing for her friend. Its tendency would be to raise and refine her mind— and it must be saving her from the danger of degradation.
哈丽特默默地、顺从地吻了吻她的手，表示感激。艾玛坚决认为这样的依恋对她的朋友来说并不是坏事。它的趋势是提高和完善她的思想——而且它一定能把她从堕落的危险中拯救出来。

Chapter V
第五章

In this state of schemes, and hopes, and connivance, June opened upon Hartfield. To Highbury in general it brought no material change. The Eltons were still talking of a visit from the Sucklings, and of the use to be made of their barouche-landau; and Jane Fairfax was still at her grandmother’s; and as the return of the Campbells from Ireland was again delayed, and August, instead of Midsummer, fixed for it, she was likely to remain there full two months longer, provided at least she were able to defeat Mrs. Elton’s activity in her service, and save herself from being hurried into a delightful situation against her will.
在这种计划、希望和纵容的状态下，六月向哈特菲尔德敞开了大门。对于海布里来说，总体而言，这并没有带来实质性的变化。埃尔顿夫妇还在谈论萨克林夫妇的来访，以及他们的四轮马车的用途。简·费尔法克斯还在她祖母家。由于坎贝尔夫妇从爱尔兰的归来再次被推迟，而八月而不是仲夏，她很可能在那里多呆两个月，只要她至少能够击败埃尔顿夫人为她服务的活动，并避免自己被迫违背自己的意愿而陷入令人愉快的境地。

Mr. Knightley, who, for some reason best known to himself, had certainly taken an early dislike to Frank Churchill, was only growing to dislike him more. He began to suspect him of some double dealing in his pursuit of Emma. That Emma was his object appeared indisputable. Every thing declared it; his own attentions, his father’s hints, his mother-in-law’s guarded silence; it was all in unison; words, conduct, discretion, and indiscretion, told the same story. But while so many were devoting him to Emma, and Emma herself making him over to Harriet, Mr. Knightley began to suspect him of some inclination to trifle with Jane Fairfax. He could not understand it; but there were symptoms of intelligence between them—he thought so at least— symptoms of admiration on his side, which, having once observed, he could not persuade himself to think entirely void of meaning, however he might wish to escape any of Emma’s errors of imagination. She was not present when the suspicion first arose. He was dining with the Randalls family, and Jane, at the Eltons’; and he had seen a look, more than a single look, at Miss Fairfax, which, from the admirer of Miss Woodhouse, seemed somewhat out of place. When he was again in their company, he could not help remembering what he had seen; nor could he avoid observations which, unless it were like Cowper and his fire at twilight,
出于某种最为人所知的原因，奈特利先生早年确实不喜欢弗兰克·丘吉尔，但现在却越来越不喜欢他了。他开始怀疑他在追求艾玛的过程中进行了双重交易。艾玛是他的目标，这似乎是无可争议的。每件事都宣告了它；他自己的关注，他父亲的暗示，他岳母谨慎的沉默；一切都是一致的；言语、行为、谨慎和轻率都讲述了同样的故事。但是，当这么多人把他献给艾玛，而艾玛自己也把他交给哈丽特时，奈特利先生却开始怀疑他有玩弄简·费尔法克斯的倾向。他无法理解。但他们之间有智慧的迹象——至少他是这么认为的——他这边有钦佩的迹象，一旦观察到这一点，他就无法说服自己认为完全没有意义，尽管他可能希望避免艾玛的任何错误的想象力。当怀疑第一次出现时，她并不在场。他正在埃尔顿家与兰德尔一家和简一起吃饭。他在费尔法克斯小姐身上看到了一种眼神，而且不止一次，从伍德豪斯小姐的崇拜者的角度来看，这种眼神似乎有些不合时宜。当他再次和他们在一起时，他情不自禁地想起了他所看到的一切。他也无法避免观察，除非像考珀和他在黄昏时的火一样，

‘Myself creating what I saw,’
“我自己创造了我所看到的”

brought him yet stronger suspicion of there being a something of private liking, of private understanding even, between Frank Churchill and Jane.
这让他更加怀疑弗兰克·丘吉尔和简之间存在某种私人喜好，甚至私人理解。

He had walked up one day after dinner, as he very often did, to spend his evening at Hartfield. Emma and Harriet were going to walk; he joined them; and, on returning, they fell in with a larger party, who, like themselves, judged it wisest to take their exercise early, as the weather threatened rain; Mr. and Mrs. Weston and their son, Miss Bates and her niece, who had accidentally met. They all united; and, on reaching Hartfield gates, Emma, who knew it was exactly the sort of visiting that would be welcome to her father, pressed them all to go in and drink tea with him. The Randalls party agreed to it immediately; and after a pretty long speech from Miss Bates, which few persons listened to, she also found it possible to accept dear Miss Woodhouse’s most obliging invitation.
一天晚饭后，他像往常一样，步行前往哈特菲尔德度过一晚。艾玛和哈丽特打算步行；他加入了他们；回来后，他们遇到了一大群人，他们和他们一样，认为最好早点锻炼，因为天气威胁要下雨。韦斯顿夫妇和他们的儿子，贝茨小姐和她的侄女，偶然相遇。他们团结起来；到达哈特菲尔德大门后，艾玛知道她父亲会欢迎这种来访，她催促大家进去和他一起喝茶。兰德尔党立即同意了；在贝茨小姐发表了相当长的演讲之后，很少有人听，她也发现可以接受亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐最热情的邀请。

As they were turning into the grounds, Mr. Perry passed by on horseback. The gentlemen spoke of his horse.
当他们转向庭院时，佩里先生骑马经过。先生们谈到了他的马。

‘By the bye,’ said Frank Churchill to Mrs. Weston presently, ‘what became of Mr. Perry’s plan of setting up his carriage?’
“再见，”弗兰克·丘吉尔不久对韦斯顿夫人说道，“佩里先生准备马车的计划怎么样了？”

Mrs. Weston looked surprized, and said, ‘I did not know that he ever had any such plan.’
韦斯顿夫人显得很惊讶，说道：“我不知道他有过这样的计划。”

‘Nay, I had it from you. You wrote me word of it three months ago.’
‘不，这是我从你那里得到的。你三个月前写信告诉我这件事。

‘Me! impossible!’
'我！不可能的！'

‘Indeed you did. I remember it perfectly. You mentioned it as what was certainly to be very soon. Mrs. Perry had told somebody, and was extremely happy about it. It was owing to her persuasion, as she thought his being out in bad weather did him a great deal of harm. You must remember it now?’
‘你确实做到了。我记得很清楚。你提到这肯定很快就会发生。佩里夫人告诉了别人，并且对此非常高兴。这是她的劝说，因为她认为他在恶劣的天气里外出对他的伤害很大。你现在一定记得了吧？

‘Upon my word I never heard of it till this moment.’
“据我所知，直到这一刻我才听说过它。”

‘Never! really, never!—Bless me! how could it be?—Then I must have dreamt it—but I was completely persuaded—Miss Smith, you walk as if you were tired. You will not be sorry to find yourself at home.’
'绝不！真的，从来没有！——保佑我！怎么可能？——那我一定是在做梦——但我完全相信了——史密斯小姐，你走路的样子好像很累。你不会因为自己在家而感到遗憾。”

‘What is this?—What is this?’ cried Mr. Weston, ‘about Perry and a carriage? Is Perry going to set up his carriage, Frank? I am glad he can afford it. You had it from himself, had you?’
“这是什么？——这是什么？”韦斯顿先生喊道，“关于佩里和一辆马车的事？”弗兰克，佩里要准备他的马车吗？我很高兴他能负担得起。你是从他那里得到的，是吗？

‘No, sir,’ replied his son, laughing, ‘I seem to have had it from nobody.—Very odd!—I really was persuaded of Mrs. Weston’s having mentioned it in one of her letters to Enscombe, many weeks ago, with all these particulars—but as she declares she never heard a syllable of it before, of course it must have been a dream. I am a great dreamer. I dream of every body at Highbury when I am away— and when I have gone through my particular friends, then I begin dreaming of Mr. and Mrs. Perry.’
“不，先生，”他的儿子笑着回答，“我似乎没有从任何人那里得到这件事。——很奇怪！——我真的相信韦斯顿夫人在许多周前写给恩斯科姆的一封信中提到过这件事，所有这些细节——但正如她声称她以前从未听过它的一个音节，当然这肯定是一个梦。我是一个伟大的梦想家。当我不在的时候，我会梦见海布里的每一个人——当我经历过我特别的朋友之后，我就会开始梦见佩里先生和佩里夫人。

‘It is odd though,’ observed his father, ‘that you should have had such a regular connected dream about people whom it was not very likely you should be thinking of at Enscombe. Perry’s setting up his carriage! and his wife’s persuading him to it, out of care for his health— just what will happen, I have no doubt, some time or other; only a little premature. What an air of probability sometimes runs through a dream! And at others, what a heap of absurdities it is! Well, Frank, your dream certainly shews that Highbury is in your thoughts when you are absent. Emma, you are a great dreamer, I think?’
“这很奇怪，”他的父亲说道，“你竟然经常做这样一个相互关联的梦，梦见的人是你在恩斯库姆不太可能想到的人。佩里正在准备他的马车！他的妻子出于对他健康的考虑而说服他这样做——我毫不怀疑，迟早会发生什么；只是有点为时过早。有时，梦中充满了一种多么可能的气氛啊！而在其他人看来，这是多么荒谬啊！好吧，弗兰克，你的梦肯定表明，当你不在时，海布里就在你的脑海里。艾玛，我认为你是一个伟大的梦想家？

Emma was out of hearing. She had hurried on before her guests to prepare her father for their appearance, and was beyond the reach of Mr. Weston’s hint.
艾玛听不见了。她匆匆赶到客人面前，为父亲做好迎接他们的到来的准备，但韦斯顿先生的暗示却超出了她的范围。

‘Why, to own the truth,’ cried Miss Bates, who had been trying in vain to be heard the last two minutes, ‘if I must speak on this subject, there is no denying that Mr. Frank Churchill might have—I do not mean to say that he did not dream it—I am sure I have sometimes the oddest dreams in the world—but if I am questioned about it, I must acknowledge that there was such an idea last spring; for Mrs. Perry herself mentioned it to my mother, and the Coles knew of it as well as ourselves—but it was quite a secret, known to nobody else, and only thought of about three days. Mrs. Perry was very anxious that he should have a carriage, and came to my mother in great spirits one morning because she thought she had prevailed. Jane, don’t you remember grandmama’s telling us of it when we got home? I forget where we had been walking to— very likely to Randalls; yes, I think it was to Randalls. Mrs. Perry was always particularly fond of my mother—indeed I do not know who is not—and she had mentioned it to her in confidence; she had no objection to her telling us, of course, but it was not to go beyond: and, from that day to this, I never mentioned it to a soul that I know of. At the same time, I will not positively answer for my having never dropt a hint, because I know I do sometimes pop out a thing before I am aware. I am a talker, you know; I am rather a talker; and now and then I have let a thing escape me which I should not. I am not like Jane; I wish I were. I will answer for it she never betrayed the least thing in the world. Where is she?—Oh! just behind. Perfectly remember Mrs. Perry’s coming.— Extraordinary dream, indeed!’
“为什么，要承认事实，”贝茨小姐喊道，她在最后两分钟一直徒劳地试图让别人听到，“如果我必须就这个话题发言，不可否认的是，弗兰克·丘吉尔先生可能会——我确实如此。”并不是说他没有梦想过——我确信我有时会做世界上最奇怪的梦——但如果我被问到这一点，我必须承认去年春天有过这样的想法；因为佩里夫人亲自向我母亲提到过这件事，科尔夫妇和我们自己都知道这件事——但这是一个相当秘密的事情，没有其他人知道，而且只想到了大约三天。佩里夫人非常渴望他能有一辆马车，一天早上她兴高采烈地来到我母亲身边，因为她认为自己已经成功了。简，你不记得我们回家时奶奶告诉我们这件事了吗？我忘记了我们一直走到哪里——很可能是兰德尔斯；是的，我想是给兰德尔斯的。佩里夫人一直特别喜欢我的母亲——事实上，我不知道谁不是——而且她曾私下向她提起过这一点。当然，她并不反对她告诉我们，但这并没有超出：从那天到现在，我从未向我认识的人提起过这件事。同时，我也不会因为我从来没有暗示过而正面回答，因为我知道我有时会在不知不觉中突然说出一些东西。你知道，我是个爱说话的人；我比较爱说话；有时我会漏掉一些我不应该漏掉的事情。我不像简；我不像简。我希望我是。我会为此负责，她从未背叛过世界上最微小的事情。她在哪儿？——噢！就在后面。完全记得佩里夫人的到来。——确实是一个非凡的梦想！

They were entering the hall. Mr. Knightley’s eyes had preceded Miss Bates’s in a glance at Jane. From Frank Churchill’s face, where he thought he saw confusion suppressed or laughed away, he had involuntarily turned to hers; but she was indeed behind, and too busy with her shawl. Mr. Weston had walked in. The two other gentlemen waited at the door to let her pass. Mr. Knightley suspected in Frank Churchill the determination of catching her eye— he seemed watching her intently—in vain, however, if it were so— Jane passed between them into the hall, and looked at neither.
他们正在进入大厅。奈特利先生的目光先于贝茨小姐看了简一眼。从弗兰克·丘吉尔的脸上，他认为自己看到了困惑被抑制或笑掉了，他不由自主地转向了她的脸；但她确实落后了，而且正忙着披肩。韦斯顿先生走了进来。另外两位先生在门口等着让她过去。奈特利先生怀疑弗兰克·丘吉尔有决心吸引她的目光——他似乎全神贯注地看着她——然而，如果真是这样的话，也是徒劳的——简从他们中间穿过，走进大厅，看都没看她一眼。

There was no time for farther remark or explanation. The dream must be borne with, and Mr. Knightley must take his seat with the rest round the large modern circular table which Emma had introduced at Hartfield, and which none but Emma could have had power to place there and persuade her father to use, instead of the small-sized Pembroke, on which two of his daily meals had, for forty years been crowded. Tea passed pleasantly, and nobody seemed in a hurry to move.
没有时间进一步评论或解释。这个梦想必须忍受，奈特利先生必须和其他人一起坐在艾玛在哈特菲尔德引进的现代大圆桌旁，除了艾玛之外，没有人有权把它放在那里并说服她的父亲使用它，而不是小型的彭布罗克，四十年来他每天的两顿饭都在那里吃。茶喝得很愉快，似乎没有人急着走动。

‘Miss Woodhouse,’ said Frank Churchill, after examining a table behind him, which he could reach as he sat, ‘have your nephews taken away their alphabets—their box of letters? It used to stand here. Where is it? This is a sort of dull-looking evening, that ought to be treated rather as winter than summer. We had great amusement with those letters one morning. I want to puzzle you again.’
“伍德豪斯小姐，”弗兰克·丘吉尔检查了他身后的一张桌子（他坐下时可以拿到桌子）后说道，“您的侄子们拿走了他们的字母表——他们的字母盒吗？它曾经矗立在这里。它在哪里？这是一个看起来沉闷的夜晚，与其说是夏天，不如说是冬天。一天早上，我们对这些信感到非常有趣。我想再让你困惑一下。

Emma was pleased with the thought; and producing the box, the table was quickly scattered over with alphabets, which no one seemed so much disposed to employ as their two selves. They were rapidly forming words for each other, or for any body else who would be puzzled. The quietness of the game made it particularly eligible for Mr. Woodhouse, who had often been distressed by the more animated sort, which Mr. Weston had occasionally introduced, and who now sat happily occupied in lamenting, with tender melancholy, over the departure of the ‘poor little boys,’ or in fondly pointing out, as he took up any stray letter near him, how beautifully Emma had written it.
艾玛对这个想法很满意。拿出盒子后，桌子上很快就堆满了字母，似乎没有人比他们两个更愿意使用字母。他们快速地互相交谈，或者为任何感到困惑的人交谈。这场比赛的安静性使其特别适合伍德豪斯先生，他经常对韦斯顿先生偶尔介绍的更生动的比赛感到苦恼，现在他高兴地坐着，带着温柔的忧郁，为“可怜的小男孩”，或者当他拿起身边任何一封信时，深情地指出艾玛写得多么漂亮。

Frank Churchill placed a word before Miss Fairfax. She gave a slight glance round the table, and applied herself to it. Frank was next to Emma, Jane opposite to them—and Mr. Knightley so placed as to see them all; and it was his object to see as much as he could, with as little apparent observation. The word was discovered, and with a faint smile pushed away. If meant to be immediately mixed with the others, and buried from sight, she should have looked on the table instead of looking just across, for it was not mixed; and Harriet, eager after every fresh word, and finding out none, directly took it up, and fell to work. She was sitting by Mr. Knightley, and turned to him for help. The word was blunder; and as Harriet exultingly proclaimed it, there was a blush on Jane’s cheek which gave it a meaning not otherwise ostensible. Mr. Knightley connected it with the dream; but how it could all be, was beyond his comprehension. How the delicacy, the discretion of his favourite could have been so lain asleep! He feared there must be some decided involvement. Disingenuousness and double dealing seemed to meet him at every turn. These letters were but the vehicle for gallantry and trick. It was a child’s play, chosen to conceal a deeper game on Frank Churchill’s part.
弗兰克·丘吉尔在费尔法克斯小姐面前说了一句话。她轻轻扫视了一下桌子，然后全身心投入其中。弗兰克坐在艾玛旁边，简坐在他们对面——奈特利先生的位置可以看到他们所有人。他的目标是尽可能多地观察，同时尽可能少地进行明显的观察。这个词被发现了，淡淡一笑推开了。如果要立即与其他人混在一起，并从视线中消失，她应该看桌子而不是只看对面，因为它没有混在一起；哈丽特急切地想听到每一个新词，但一无所获，就直接拿起它，开始工作。她坐在奈特利先生旁边，转向他寻求帮助。这个词是错误的；当哈丽特兴高采烈地宣布这句话时，简的脸颊上泛起了红晕，这赋予了它一种原本无法表达的含义。奈特利先生将其与梦联系起来；但这一切到底是怎么回事，却超出了他的理解范围。他最喜欢的人竟然睡得如此精致、谨慎！他担心一定有某种决定性的参与。不诚实和两面派似乎处处都会遇到他。这些信件只不过是表现英勇和诡计的工具。这是一场儿戏，旨在掩盖弗兰克·丘吉尔更深层次的游戏。

With great indignation did he continue to observe him; with great alarm and distrust, to observe also his two blinded companions. He saw a short word prepared for Emma, and given to her with a look sly and demure. He saw that Emma had soon made it out, and found it highly entertaining, though it was something which she judged it proper to appear to censure; for she said, ‘Nonsense! for shame!’ He heard Frank Churchill next say, with a glance towards Jane, ‘I will give it to her—shall I?’—and as clearly heard Emma opposing it with eager laughing warmth. ‘No, no, you must not; you shall not, indeed.’
他怀着极大的愤慨继续观察着他。带着极大的惊慌和怀疑，他也观察到了他的两个失明的同伴。他看到为艾玛准备的简短一句话，并以狡猾而娴静的表情向她表达。他看到艾玛很快就明白了，觉得这很有趣，尽管她认为表现出谴责的态度是正确的；因为她说：‘胡说八道！他听到弗兰克·丘吉尔接下来说道，看了一眼简，“我会把它给她——可以吗？”——而且清楚地听到艾玛带着热切的笑声反对它。 ‘不，不，你不可以；确实，你不会。

It was done however. This gallant young man, who seemed to love without feeling, and to recommend himself without complaisance, directly handed over the word to Miss Fairfax, and with a particular degree of sedate civility entreated her to study it. Mr. Knightley’s excessive curiosity to know what this word might be, made him seize every possible moment for darting his eye towards it, and it was not long before he saw it to be Dixon. Jane Fairfax’s perception seemed to accompany his; her comprehension was certainly more equal to the covert meaning, the superior intelligence, of those five letters so arranged. She was evidently displeased; looked up, and seeing herself watched, blushed more deeply than he had ever perceived her, and saying only, ‘I did not know that proper names were allowed,’ pushed away the letters with even an angry spirit, and looked resolved to be engaged by no other word that could be offered. Her face was averted from those who had made the attack, and turned towards her aunt.
然而它已经完成了。这个英勇的年轻人，似乎爱而不带感情，推荐自己也不带奉承，他直接把这个词交给了费尔法克斯小姐，并以一种特别沉稳的礼貌恳求她研究一下。奈特利先生过度好奇，想知道这个词到底是什么，他抓住一切可能的时机，将目光投向它，没过多久，他就发现这是迪克森。简·费尔法克斯的看法似乎与他的看法相伴。她的理解当然更等于这五个字母如此排列的隐含意义，超凡的智慧。她显然很不高兴。抬起头来，发现自己在注视着她，脸红得比他想象的还要深，只说了一句：“我不知道允许使用专有名词。”甚至带着愤怒的神情推开那些字母，看上去决心要订婚了。没有其他词可以提供。她的脸从那些发起攻击的人身上移开，转向她的姨妈。

‘Aye, very true, my dear,’ cried the latter, though Jane had not spoken a word—‘I was just going to say the same thing. It is time for us to be going indeed. The evening is closing in, and grandmama will be looking for us. My dear sir, you are too obliging. We really must wish you good night.’
“是啊，说得很对，亲爱的，”后者大声喊道，尽管简什么也没说——“我正要说同样的话。我们确实该出发了。夜幕降临了，奶奶会来找我们的。亲爱的先生，您太客气了。我们真的必须祝你晚安。

Jane’s alertness in moving, proved her as ready as her aunt had preconceived. She was immediately up, and wanting to quit the table; but so many were also moving, that she could not get away; and Mr. Knightley thought he saw another collection of letters anxiously pushed towards her, and resolutely swept away by her unexamined. She was afterwards looking for her shawl—Frank Churchill was looking also—it was growing dusk, and the room was in confusion; and how they parted, Mr. Knightley could not tell.
简行动时的警觉性证明她已经准备好了，正如她姨妈所预想的那样。她立刻站了起来，想要离开餐桌。但太多人也在移动，她无法逃脱。奈特利先生觉得自己看到了另一堆信件焦急地推向她，但又被她不加审视地一扫而光。后来她在寻找她的披肩——弗兰克·丘吉尔也在寻找——天色已晚，房间里一片混乱。奈特利先生不知道他们是如何分开的。

He remained at Hartfield after all the rest, his thoughts full of what he had seen; so full, that when the candles came to assist his observations, he must—yes, he certainly must, as a friend— an anxious friend—give Emma some hint, ask her some question. He could not see her in a situation of such danger, without trying to preserve her. It was his duty.
一切结束后，他仍然留在哈特菲尔德，满脑子都是他所看到的一切。如此充分，以至于当蜡烛来帮助他观察时，他必须——是的，他当然必须，作为一个朋友——一个焦虑的朋友——给艾玛一些暗示，问她一些问题。看到她处于如此危险的境地，他不能不尽力保护她。这是他的职责。

‘Pray, Emma,’ said he, ‘may I ask in what lay the great amusement, the poignant sting of the last word given to you and Miss Fairfax? I saw the word, and am curious to know how it could be so very entertaining to the one, and so very distressing to the other.’
“请问，艾玛，”他说，“我可以问一下，你和费尔法克斯小姐最后一句话中的巨大乐趣和辛酸刺痛是什么？我看到这个词，很想知道它为什么对一个人来说如此有趣，而对另一个人来说却如此令人痛苦。

Emma was extremely confused. She could not endure to give him the true explanation; for though her suspicions were by no means removed, she was really ashamed of having ever imparted them.
艾玛非常困惑。她无法忍受给他真正的解释；因为尽管她的怀疑丝毫没有消除，但她确实为自己说出了这些怀疑而感到羞愧。

‘Oh!’ she cried in evident embarrassment, ‘it all meant nothing; a mere joke among ourselves.’
“哦！”她明显尴尬地喊道，“这一切都毫无意义；”只是我们之间的一个笑话。

‘The joke,’ he replied gravely, ‘seemed confined to you and Mr. Churchill.’
“这个笑话，”他严肃地回答，“似乎仅限于你和丘吉尔先生。”

He had hoped she would speak again, but she did not. She would rather busy herself about any thing than speak. He sat a little while in doubt. A variety of evils crossed his mind. Interference— fruitless interference. Emma’s confusion, and the acknowledged intimacy, seemed to declare her affection engaged. Yet he would speak. He owed it to her, to risk any thing that might be involved in an unwelcome interference, rather than her welfare; to encounter any thing, rather than the remembrance of neglect in such a cause.
他本来希望她能再说话，但她没有。她宁愿自己忙着做任何事，也不愿说话。他疑惑地坐了一会儿。他的脑海里闪过各种邪恶的念头。干扰——徒劳的干扰。艾玛的困惑和公认的亲密似乎宣告了她的感情已经订婚。但他还是会说话。他对她负有责任，冒着任何可能涉及不受欢迎的干扰的风险，而不是她的福利；遇到任何事情，而不是记住在这样的原因中的疏忽。

‘My dear Emma,’ said he at last, with earnest kindness, ‘do you think you perfectly understand the degree of acquaintance between the gentleman and lady we have been speaking of?’
“我亲爱的艾玛，”他最后诚恳地说道，“你认为你完全了解我们所说的这位先生和女士之间的熟识程度吗？”

‘Between Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Fairfax? Oh! yes, perfectly.— Why do you make a doubt of it?’
“弗兰克·丘吉尔先生和费尔法克斯小姐之间？”哦！是的，完美。——你为什么对此表示怀疑？

‘Have you never at any time had reason to think that he admired her, or that she admired him?’
“你从来没有理由认为他钦佩她，或者她钦佩他吗？”

‘Never, never!’ she cried with a most open eagerness—‘Never, for the twentieth part of a moment, did such an idea occur to me. And how could it possibly come into your head?’
“从来没有，从来没有！”她以一种极其公开的热切喊道——“在二十分之一的时间里，我从来没有想到过这样的想法。你怎么可能想到这种事呢？

‘I have lately imagined that I saw symptoms of attachment between them— certain expressive looks, which I did not believe meant to be public.’
“我最近想象我看到了他们之间依恋的症状——某些富有表现力的表情，我不认为这是公开的。”

‘Oh! you amuse me excessively. I am delighted to find that you can vouchsafe to let your imagination wander—but it will not do— very sorry to check you in your first essay—but indeed it will not do. There is no admiration between them, I do assure you; and the appearances which have caught you, have arisen from some peculiar circumstances—feelings rather of a totally different nature— it is impossible exactly to explain:—there is a good deal of nonsense in it—but the part which is capable of being communicated, which is sense, is, that they are as far from any attachment or admiration for one another, as any two beings in the world can be. That is, I presume it to be so on her side, and I can answer for its being so on his. I will answer for the gentleman’s indifference.’
'哦！你太逗我了。我很高兴地发现你可以保证让你的想象力自由驰骋——但这不行——非常抱歉在你的第一篇文章中检查你——但事实上这是行不通的。我向你保证，他们之间并没有什么钦佩之情。引起你注意的现象，是由一些特殊的情况引起的——一种完全不同性质的感觉——不可能准确地解释：——其中有很多废话——但是能够传达的部分，这是一种感觉，即他们彼此之间没有任何依恋或钦佩，就像世界上任何两个存在一样。也就是说，我认为她是这样，我也可以回答他是这样。我会为这位先生的冷漠做出回应。

She spoke with a confidence which staggered, with a satisfaction which silenced, Mr. Knightley. She was in gay spirits, and would have prolonged the conversation, wanting to hear the particulars of his suspicions, every look described, and all the wheres and hows of a circumstance which highly entertained her: but his gaiety did not meet hers. He found he could not be useful, and his feelings were too much irritated for talking. That he might not be irritated into an absolute fever, by the fire which Mr. Woodhouse’s tender habits required almost every evening throughout the year, he soon afterwards took a hasty leave, and walked home to the coolness and solitude of Donwell Abbey.
她说话时的自信让奈特利先生吃惊不已，她的满意让奈特利先生沉默了。她兴高采烈，本来想延长谈话时间，想听听他怀疑的细节，描述的每一个眼神，以及令她非常高兴的情况的所有情况和方式：但他的快乐并不符合她的快乐。他发现自己没有什么用处，他的心情太烦躁，无法说话。为了不让伍德豪斯先生的温顺习惯在一年中的每个晚上几乎每天晚上都需要火把他激怒到绝对的高烧，他很快就匆匆离开，步行回家，回到了凉爽而孤独的唐威尔修道院。

Chapter VI
第六章

After being long fed with hopes of a speedy visit from Mr. and Mrs. Suckling, the Highbury world were obliged to endure the mortification of hearing that they could not possibly come till the autumn. No such importation of novelties could enrich their intellectual stores at present. In the daily interchange of news, they must be again restricted to the other topics with which for a while the Sucklings’ coming had been united, such as the last accounts of Mrs. Churchill, whose health seemed every day to supply a different report, and the situation of Mrs. Weston, whose happiness it was to be hoped might eventually be as much increased by the arrival of a child, as that of all her neighbours was by the approach of it.
海布里世界长期以来一直希望萨克林先生和夫人能尽快来访，但当他们听说他们要到秋天才可能来时，他们不得不忍受屈辱。目前，引进任何新奇事物都无法丰富他们的知识储备。在日常的新闻交流中，他们必须再次局限于其他主题，这些主题在一段时间内与乳汁家族的到来已经结合在一起，例如丘吉尔夫人的最后叙述，她的健康状况似乎每天都提供不同的报告，韦斯顿夫人的情况也一样，她的幸福最终会因为孩子的到来而增加，就像她所有邻居的幸福一样。

Mrs. Elton was very much disappointed. It was the delay of a great deal of pleasure and parade. Her introductions and recommendations must all wait, and every projected party be still only talked of. So she thought at first;—but a little consideration convinced her that every thing need not be put off. Why should not they explore to Box Hill though the Sucklings did not come? They could go there again with them in the autumn. It was settled that they should go to Box Hill. That there was to be such a party had been long generally known: it had even given the idea of another. Emma had never been to Box Hill; she wished to see what every body found so well worth seeing, and she and Mr. Weston had agreed to chuse some fine morning and drive thither. Two or three more of the chosen only were to be admitted to join them, and it was to be done in a quiet, unpretending, elegant way, infinitely superior to the bustle and preparation, the regular eating and drinking, and picnic parade of the Eltons and the Sucklings.
埃尔顿夫人非常失望。这是大量欢乐和游行的延迟。她的介绍和推荐都必须等待，而每一个预计的聚会仍然只能被谈论。她一开始也是这么想的；——但稍加考虑后，她就相信一切都不需要推迟。尽管乳仔没有来，他们为什么不去博士山探索呢？秋天他们可以再和他们一起去那里。决定他们应该去博士山。长期以来，人们都知道会有这样一个政党：它甚至提出了另一个想法。艾玛从未去过博士山；她从来没有去过博士山。她想看看每个人都认为非常值得一看的地方，她和韦斯顿先生同意选择一个晴朗的早晨开车去那里。只有两三个被选中的人才能被允许加入他们，而且要以一种安静、朴实、优雅的方式进行，这比人们的喧闹和准备、定期的饮食和野餐游行要优越得多。埃尔顿一家和萨克林一家。

This was so very well understood between them, that Emma could not but feel some surprise, and a little displeasure, on hearing from Mr. Weston that he had been proposing to Mrs. Elton, as her brother and sister had failed her, that the two parties should unite, and go together; and that as Mrs. Elton had very readily acceded to it, so it was to be, if she had no objection. Now, as her objection was nothing but her very great dislike of Mrs. Elton, of which Mr. Weston must already be perfectly aware, it was not worth bringing forward again:—it could not be done without a reproof to him, which would be giving pain to his wife; and she found herself therefore obliged to consent to an arrangement which she would have done a great deal to avoid; an arrangement which would probably expose her even to the degradation of being said to be of Mrs. Elton’s party! Every feeling was offended; and the forbearance of her outward submission left a heavy arrear due of secret severity in her reflections on the unmanageable goodwill of Mr. Weston’s temper.
他们之间对此非常了解，当艾玛从韦斯顿先生口中得知他一直在向埃尔顿夫人求婚时，艾玛不禁感到有些惊讶和有点不高兴，因为她的兄弟姐妹让她失望了。两党要团结起来，并肩而行；埃尔顿夫人已经很乐意地同意了，如果她不反对的话，就这样吧。现在，由于她的反对只不过是她对埃尔顿夫人的极大厌恶，韦斯顿先生肯定已经完全意识到了这一点，所以不值得再次提出：——如果没有责备他，就不可能这样做，这会给他的妻子带来痛苦；因此，她发现自己不得不同意一项她本想极力避免的安排。这样的安排可能会让她甚至被贬为埃尔顿夫人的一伙人！每一种感觉都被冒犯了；她表面上的忍让，在她对韦斯顿先生难以控制的善意脾气的反思中，由于秘密的严厉而留下了沉重的欠账。

‘I am glad you approve of what I have done,’ said he very comfortably. ‘But I thought you would. Such schemes as these are nothing without numbers. One cannot have too large a party. A large party secures its own amusement. And she is a good-natured woman after all. One could not leave her out.’
“我很高兴你认可我所做的事情，”他轻松地说。 “但我以为你会的。诸如此类的计划如果没有数字就毫无意义。一个人不能举办太大的聚会。大型聚会可以保证自己的娱乐。而且她毕竟是一个心地善良的女人。人们不能把她排除在外。

Emma denied none of it aloud, and agreed to none of it in private.
艾玛没有公开否认，私下里也没有同意。

It was now the middle of June, and the weather fine; and Mrs. Elton was growing impatient to name the day, and settle with Mr. Weston as to pigeon-pies and cold lamb, when a lame carriage-horse threw every thing into sad uncertainty. It might be weeks, it might be only a few days, before the horse were useable; but no preparations could be ventured on, and it was all melancholy stagnation. Mrs. Elton’s resources were inadequate to such an attack.
此时已是六月中旬，天气晴朗。埃尔顿夫人越来越不耐烦地要宣布这一天，并与韦斯顿先生就鸽子馅饼和冷羊肉达成一致，这时一匹跛脚的马车让一切都陷入了悲伤的不确定之中。可能要过几周，也可能只有几天，这匹马就可以使用了。但没有任何准备可以冒险进行，一切都是忧郁的停滞。埃尔顿夫人的资源不足以应对这样的袭击。

‘Is not this most vexations, Knightley?’ she cried.—‘And such weather for exploring!—These delays and disappointments are quite odious. What are we to do?—The year will wear away at this rate, and nothing done. Before this time last year I assure you we had had a delightful exploring party from Maple Grove to Kings Weston.’
“这不是最令人烦恼的事吗，奈特利？”她喊道。“而且这样的天气适合探险！——这些延误和失望是相当令人厌恶的。”我们该怎么办？——一年就这么过去了，却什么也没做。在去年这个时候之前，我向你保证，我们从枫树林到金斯韦斯顿举办了一次愉快的探索派对。

‘You had better explore to Donwell,’ replied Mr. Knightley. ‘That may be done without horses. Come, and eat my strawberries. They are ripening fast.’
“你最好去唐威尔探险，”奈特利先生回答道。 ‘这可以在没有马的情况下完成。来吧，吃我的草莓。它们成熟得很快。

If Mr. Knightley did not begin seriously, he was obliged to proceed so, for his proposal was caught at with delight; and the ‘Oh! I should like it of all things,’ was not plainer in words than manner. Donwell was famous for its strawberry-beds, which seemed a plea for the invitation: but no plea was necessary; cabbage-beds would have been enough to tempt the lady, who only wanted to be going somewhere. She promised him again and again to come—much oftener than he doubted—and was extremely gratified by such a proof of intimacy, such a distinguishing compliment as she chose to consider it.
如果奈特利先生没有认真地开始，他也不得不这样做，因为他的提议引起了人们的高兴。和‘哦！我最喜欢的就是它。”言语中的言辞并不比方式上的明晰。唐威尔以其草莓床而闻名，这似乎是对邀请的恳求：但没有必要提出恳求；卷心菜床足以吸引那位只想去某个地方的女士。她一次又一次地答应他会来——比他怀疑的次数要多得多——并且对这样一种亲密的证明感到非常满意，当她选择考虑它时，这是一种独特的赞美。

‘You may depend upon me,’ said she. ‘I certainly will come. Name your day, and I will come. You will allow me to bring Jane Fairfax?’
“你可以依靠我，”她说。 ‘我一定会来的。说出你的日子，我就会来。你允许我带简·费尔法克斯来吗？

‘I cannot name a day,’ said he, ‘till I have spoken to some others whom I would wish to meet you.’
“我无法说出具体的日子，”他说，“直到我和其他一些我希望见到你的人谈过。”

‘Oh! leave all that to me. Only give me a carte-blanche.—I am Lady Patroness, you know. It is my party. I will bring friends with me.’
'哦！把这一切都交给我吧。只要给我全权委托。——我是女赞助人，你知道。这是我的聚会。我会带朋友一起来。

‘I hope you will bring Elton,’ said he: ‘but I will not trouble you to give any other invitations.’
“我希望你能带上埃尔顿，”他说，“但我不会麻烦你发出任何其他邀请。”

‘Oh! now you are looking very sly. But consider—you need not be afraid of delegating power to me. I am no young lady on her preferment. Married women, you know, may be safely authorised. It is my party. Leave it all to me. I will invite your guests.’
'哦！现在你看起来很狡猾。但请考虑一下——你不必害怕将权力委托给我。我不是她所青睐的年轻女士。你知道，已婚妇女可以安全地获得授权。这是我的聚会。都交给我吧。我会邀请你的客人。

‘No,’—he calmly replied,—‘there is but one married woman in the world whom I can ever allow to invite what guests she pleases to Donwell, and that one is—‘
“不，”他平静地回答，“世界上只有一位已婚妇女，我可以允许她邀请她喜欢的客人来唐威尔，而那个人就是——”

‘—Mrs. Weston, I suppose,’ interrupted Mrs. Elton, rather mortified.
'-太太。 “韦斯顿，我想，”埃尔顿夫人打断道，她颇为羞愧。

‘No—Mrs. Knightley;—and till she is in being, I will manage such matters myself.’
“不——夫人。”奈特莉；——在她存在之前，我会自己处理这些事情。

‘Ah! you are an odd creature!’ she cried, satisfied to have no one preferred to herself.—‘You are a humourist, and may say what you like. Quite a humourist. Well, I shall bring Jane with me— Jane and her aunt.—The rest I leave to you. I have no objections at all to meeting the Hartfield family. Don’t scruple. I know you are attached to them.’
'啊！你真是个奇怪的人！”她喊道，很满意没有人比她更喜欢她。——“你是个幽默家，想说什么就说什么。真是一位幽默家。好吧，我会带上简——简和她的阿姨。——剩下的就交给你了。我完全不反对会见哈特菲尔德一家。不要顾忌。我知道你很喜欢他们。

‘You certainly will meet them if I can prevail; and I shall call on Miss Bates in my way home.’
“如果我能获胜，你一定会遇到他们；我会在回家的路上拜访贝茨小姐。

‘That’s quite unnecessary; I see Jane every day:—but as you like. It is to be a morning scheme, you know, Knightley; quite a simple thing. I shall wear a large bonnet, and bring one of my little baskets hanging on my arm. Here,—probably this basket with pink ribbon. Nothing can be more simple, you see. And Jane will have such another. There is to be no form or parade—a sort of gipsy party. We are to walk about your gardens, and gather the strawberries ourselves, and sit under trees;—and whatever else you may like to provide, it is to be all out of doors—a table spread in the shade, you know. Every thing as natural and simple as possible. Is not that your idea?’
‘那完全没有必要；我每天都见到简：——但随你便。这是一个早上的计划，你知道，奈特利；很简单的事情。我要戴一顶大帽子，手臂上挂一个小篮子。在这里，——可能是这个挂着粉红丝带的篮子。你看，没有什么比这更简单的了。简也会有这样的另一个。不应该有任何形式或游行——一种吉普赛派对。我们要在你的花园里散步，自己采摘草莓，坐在树下；——无论你想提供什么，都必须在户外——一张铺在阴凉处的桌子，你知道。一切都尽可能自然和简单。这不是你的主意吗？

‘Not quite. My idea of the simple and the natural will be to have the table spread in the dining-room. The nature and the simplicity of gentlemen and ladies, with their servants and furniture, I think is best observed by meals within doors. When you are tired of eating strawberries in the garden, there shall be cold meat in the house.’
'不完全的。我的简单和自然的想法是把桌子铺在餐厅里。我认为，先生们和女士们的天性和朴素，以及他们的仆人和家具，最好是通过在室内用餐来体现。当你吃腻了花园里的草莓时，家里就会有冷肉。”

‘Well—as you please; only don’t have a great set out. And, by the bye, can I or my housekeeper be of any use to you with our opinion?— Pray be sincere, Knightley. If you wish me to talk to Mrs. Hodges, or to inspect anything—‘
“好吧——随你便吧；只是没有一个很好的出发点。顺便说一句，我或我的管家的意见对您有什么帮助吗？——请真诚一点，奈特利。如果你希望我和霍奇斯夫人谈谈，或者检查任何东西——”

‘I have not the least wish for it, I thank you.’
“我没有丝毫的愿望，谢谢你。”

‘Well—but if any difficulties should arise, my housekeeper is extremely clever.’
“好吧——但如果出现任何困难，我的管家非常聪明。”

‘I will answer for it, that mine thinks herself full as clever, and would spurn any body’s assistance.’
“我会对此负责，因为我认为自己很聪明，并且会拒绝任何人的帮助。”

‘I wish we had a donkey. The thing would be for us all to come on donkeys, Jane, Miss Bates, and me—and my caro sposo walking by. I really must talk to him about purchasing a donkey. In a country life I conceive it to be a sort of necessary; for, let a woman have ever so many resources, it is not possible for her to be always shut up at home;—and very long walks, you know—in summer there is dust, and in winter there is dirt.’
“我希望我们有一头驴。事情是我们大家都骑着驴子来，简、贝茨小姐和我——还有我的卡罗·斯波索路过。我真的必须和他谈谈买头驴的事。在乡村生活中，我认为这是一种必要的。因为，即使一个女人拥有如此多的资源，她也不可能总是被关在家里；而且要走很长的路，你知道，夏天有灰尘，冬天有泥土。

‘You will not find either, between Donwell and Highbury. Donwell Lane is never dusty, and now it is perfectly dry. Come on a donkey, however, if you prefer it. You can borrow Mrs. Cole’s. I would wish every thing to be as much to your taste as possible.’
“在唐威尔和海布里之间，你也找不到。”唐威尔巷从来不沾满灰尘，现在完全干燥。不过，如果你愿意的话，来一头驴吧。你可以借用科尔夫人的。我希望每件事都尽可能符合您的口味。

‘That I am sure you would. Indeed I do you justice, my good friend. Under that peculiar sort of dry, blunt manner, I know you have the warmest heart. As I tell Mr. E., you are a thorough humourist.— Yes, believe me, Knightley, I am fully sensible of your attention to me in the whole of this scheme. You have hit upon the very thing to please me.’
“我确信你会的。我确实对你公平，我的好朋友。在那种特有的干巴巴、生硬的态度下，我知道你有一颗最温暖的心。正如我告诉 E. 先生的那样，你是一位彻底的幽默家。——是的，相信我，奈特利，我完全意识到你在整个计划中对我的关注。你突然想到了让我高兴的事情。

Mr. Knightley had another reason for avoiding a table in the shade. He wished to persuade Mr. Woodhouse, as well as Emma, to join the party; and he knew that to have any of them sitting down out of doors to eat would inevitably make him ill. Mr. Woodhouse must not, under the specious pretence of a morning drive, and an hour or two spent at Donwell, be tempted away to his misery.
奈特利先生避开阴凉处的桌子还有另一个原因。他希望说服伍德豪斯先生和艾玛加入该党。他知道，让他们中的任何一个人坐在门外吃饭，他都不可避免地会生病。伍德豪斯先生决不能以早上开车并在唐威尔待上一两个小时为幌子，被引诱去经历他的痛苦。

He was invited on good faith. No lurking horrors were to upbraid him for his easy credulity. He did consent. He had not been at Donwell for two years. ‘Some very fine morning, he, and Emma, and Harriet, could go very well; and he could sit still with Mrs. Weston, while the dear girls walked about the gardens. He did not suppose they could be damp now, in the middle of the day. He should like to see the old house again exceedingly, and should be very happy to meet Mr. and Mrs. Elton, and any other of his neighbours.—He could not see any objection at all to his, and Emma’s, and Harriet’s going there some very fine morning. He thought it very well done of Mr. Knightley to invite them— very kind and sensible—much cleverer than dining out.—He was not fond of dining out.’
他是出于善意被邀请的。没有任何潜在的恐惧会因为他轻易轻信而责备他。他确实同意了。他已经两年没来唐威尔了。 “某个美好的早晨，他、艾玛和哈丽特可以过得很好；当可爱的女孩们在花园里散步时，他可以和韦斯顿太太静静地坐着。他不认为现在是中午，它们不会潮湿。他非常想再次看看那栋老房子，并且很高兴见到埃尔顿先生和夫人，以及他的任何其他邻居。——他看不出有任何反对他的、艾玛的和哈丽特去的事情。有一些非常晴朗的早晨。他认为奈特利先生邀请他们做得很好——非常友善和明智——比外出就餐聪明得多。——他不喜欢外出就餐。

Mr. Knightley was fortunate in every body’s most ready concurrence. The invitation was everywhere so well received, that it seemed as if, like Mrs. Elton, they were all taking the scheme as a particular compliment to themselves.—Emma and Harriet professed very high expectations of pleasure from it; and Mr. Weston, unasked, promised to get Frank over to join them, if possible; a proof of approbation and gratitude which could have been dispensed with.— Mr. Knightley was then obliged to say that he should be glad to see him; and Mr. Weston engaged to lose no time in writing, and spare no arguments to induce him to come.
奈特利先生很幸运，得到了大家的一致同意。这个邀请到处都很受欢迎，似乎他们都像埃尔顿夫人一样，把这个计划当作对自己的一种特别的赞美。——艾玛和哈丽特声称对从中得到的快乐抱有很高的期望；但他们也没有拒绝。韦斯顿先生未经请求，答应如果可能的话，让弗兰克过来加入他们。奈特利先生这时不得不说，他应该很高兴见到他。韦斯顿先生承诺不失时机地写信，不遗余力地劝说他来。

In the meanwhile the lame horse recovered so fast, that the party to Box Hill was again under happy consideration; and at last Donwell was settled for one day, and Box Hill for the next,—the weather appearing exactly right.
与此同时，那匹跛马恢复得如此之快，以至于前往博克斯山的队伍再次受到了愉快的考虑。最后，唐威尔住了一天，第二天又住了博士山——天气看起来正好。

Under a bright mid-day sun, at almost Midsummer, Mr. Woodhouse was safely conveyed in his carriage, with one window down, to partake of this al-fresco party; and in one of the most comfortable rooms in the Abbey, especially prepared for him by a fire all the morning, he was happily placed, quite at his ease, ready to talk with pleasure of what had been achieved, and advise every body to come and sit down, and not to heat themselves.— Mrs. Weston, who seemed to have walked there on purpose to be tired, and sit all the time with him, remained, when all the others were invited or persuaded out, his patient listener and sympathiser.
正值仲夏时节，在灿烂的正午阳光下，伍德豪斯先生被安全地送上他的马车，开着一扇窗户，参加这个户外聚会。在修道院最舒适的房间之一，专门为他准备了整个早上的火炉，他被愉快地安置在他的轻松之中，准备愉快地谈论所取得的成就，并建议每个人都来坐下来，不要取暖。——韦斯顿夫人似乎是故意走到那儿来累了，一直坐在他身边，当所有其他人都被邀请或劝走时，她仍然是他耐心的倾听者。和同情者。

It was so long since Emma had been at the Abbey, that as soon as she was satisfied of her father’s comfort, she was glad to leave him, and look around her; eager to refresh and correct her memory with more particular observation, more exact understanding of a house and grounds which must ever be so interesting to her and all her family.
爱玛已经很久没来修道院了，一旦她对父亲的安慰感到满意，她就很高兴离开他，环顾四周。渴望通过对房子和场地的更具体的观察和更准确的理解来刷新和纠正她的记忆，这对她和她的全家人来说一定是非常有趣的。

She felt all the honest pride and complacency which her alliance with the present and future proprietor could fairly warrant, as she viewed the respectable size and style of the building, its suitable, becoming, characteristic situation, low and sheltered— its ample gardens stretching down to meadows washed by a stream, of which the Abbey, with all the old neglect of prospect, had scarcely a sight—and its abundance of timber in rows and avenues, which neither fashion nor extravagance had rooted up.—The house was larger than Hartfield, and totally unlike it, covering a good deal of ground, rambling and irregular, with many comfortable, and one or two handsome rooms.—It was just what it ought to be, and it looked what it was—and Emma felt an increasing respect for it, as the residence of a family of such true gentility, untainted in blood and understanding.—Some faults of temper John Knightley had; but Isabella had connected herself unexceptionably. She had given them neither men, nor names, nor places, that could raise a blush. These were pleasant feelings, and she walked about and indulged them till it was necessary to do as the others did, and collect round the strawberry-beds.—The whole party were assembled, excepting Frank Churchill, who was expected every moment from Richmond; and Mrs. Elton, in all her apparatus of happiness, her large bonnet and her basket, was very ready to lead the way in gathering, accepting, or talking—strawberries, and only strawberries, could now be thought or spoken of.—‘The best fruit in England— every body’s favourite—always wholesome.—These the finest beds and finest sorts.—Delightful to gather for one’s self—the only way of really enjoying them.—Morning decidedly the best time—never tired— every sort good—hautboy infinitely superior—no comparison— the others hardly eatable—hautboys very scarce—Chili preferred— white wood finest flavour of all—price of strawberries in London— abundance about Bristol—Maple Grove—cultivation—beds when to be renewed—gardeners thinking exactly different—no general rule— gardeners never to be put out of their way—delicious fruit— only too rich to be eaten much of—inferior to cherries— currants more refreshing—only objection to gathering strawberries the stooping—glaring sun—tired to death—could bear it no longer— must go and sit in the shade.’
当她看到这座建筑的体量和风格、它合适的、合适的、独特的位置、低矮的、有遮蔽的——它的宽敞的花园向下延伸时，她感到所有诚实的自豪和自满是她与现在和未来的业主的联盟所合理保证的。一直到小溪冲刷过的草地，修道院一直以来都忽视了前景，几乎看不到它的景色——还有成排和林荫道上的大量木材，无论是时尚还是奢侈都没有把它们连根拔起。哈特菲尔德，和它完全不同，占地很大，杂乱无章，不规则，有许多舒适的房间，还有一两间漂亮的房间。——这正是它应该的样子，看起来就是它的样子——艾玛感到一种人们对它的尊敬与日俱增，因为它是一个真正绅士的家庭的住所，没有血统和理解上的污染。——约翰·奈特利有一些脾气上的缺点；但伊莎贝拉毫无例外地将自己联系在一起。她没有给他们任何会让人脸红的男人、名字或地点。这些都是令人愉快的感觉，她走来走去，沉迷于它们，直到有必要像其他人一样，聚集在草莓床周围。——整个聚会都聚集在一起，除了弗兰克·丘吉尔，他每时每刻都在里士满等待；埃尔顿夫人，在她所有的幸福装置中，她的大帽子和她的篮子，已经准备好带头收集、接受或谈论草莓，而且只有草莓，现在可以被想到或谈论。英国最好的水果——每个人都喜欢——总是有益健康。——这些是最好的果园和最好的品种。——自己采摘是令人愉快的——这是真正享受它们的唯一方式。——早上绝对是最好的时间——永远不会疲倦——各种都好——hautboy无限优越——没有比较——其他的很难吃——hautboy非常稀缺——辣椒首选——白木最好的味道——伦敦的草莓价格——布里斯托尔的丰富——枫树林——耕种——花坛何时更新——园丁们的想法完全不同——没有一般规则——园丁们永远不会被排除在外——美味的水果——只是太丰富了，不能吃太多——不如樱桃——醋栗更清爽——唯一反对采摘草莓的就是那弯腰的、耀眼的太阳——累死了——再也受不了了——必须去坐在阴凉处。’

Such, for half an hour, was the conversation—interrupted only once by Mrs. Weston, who came out, in her solicitude after her son-in-law, to inquire if he were come—and she was a little uneasy.— She had some fears of his horse.
就这样，半个小时里，谈话就这样进行了——只被韦斯顿夫人打断了一次，她出于对女婿的关心，出来询问他是否来了——她有点不安。对他的马有一些恐惧。

Seats tolerably in the shade were found; and now Emma was obliged to overhear what Mrs. Elton and Jane Fairfax were talking of.— A situation, a most desirable situation, was in question. Mrs. Elton had received notice of it that morning, and was in raptures. It was not with Mrs. Suckling, it was not with Mrs. Bragge, but in felicity and splendour it fell short only of them: it was with a cousin of Mrs. Bragge, an acquaintance of Mrs. Suckling, a lady known at Maple Grove. Delightful, charming, superior, first circles, spheres, lines, ranks, every thing—and Mrs. Elton was wild to have the offer closed with immediately.—On her side, all was warmth, energy, and triumph—and she positively refused to take her friend’s negative, though Miss Fairfax continued to assure her that she would not at present engage in any thing, repeating the same motives which she had been heard to urge before.— Still Mrs. Elton insisted on being authorised to write an acquiescence by the morrow’s post.—How Jane could bear it at all, was astonishing to Emma.—She did look vexed, she did speak pointedly—and at last, with a decision of action unusual to her, proposed a removal.— ‘Should not they walk? Would not Mr. Knightley shew them the gardens— all the gardens?—She wished to see the whole extent.’—The pertinacity of her friend seemed more than she could bear.
找到了在阴凉处还算可以的座位。现在艾玛不得不偷听埃尔顿夫人和简·费尔法克斯正在谈论什么。——一种情况，一种最理想的情况，正在受到质疑。埃尔顿夫人那天早上收到了通知，欣喜若狂。不是和萨克林夫人在一起，也不是和布拉格夫人在一起，但在幸福和辉煌方面，它只比他们差一点：这是和布拉格夫人的一个表弟在一起，她是萨克林夫人的熟人，一位在枫树上有名的女士。树林。令人愉快的、迷人的、优越的、第一圆、球体、线条、等级，一切——埃尔顿夫人很高兴立即结束这个提议。——在她这边，一切都是温暖、活力和胜利——她断然拒绝了接受她朋友的否定，尽管费尔法克斯小姐继续向她保证，她目前不会从事任何事情，重复她以前曾敦促过的相同动机。——埃尔顿夫人仍然坚持要求获得授权，写一份默许书明天的帖子。——简怎么能忍受这一切，这让艾玛感到惊讶。——她看起来确实很恼火，她说话也很尖锐——最后，她做出了一个对她来说不寻常的行动决定，提出了解雇。——“应该他们不走路吗？难道奈特利先生不会带他们参观花园——所有的花园吗？——她希望看到整个范围。”——她朋友的固执似乎超出了她的承受能力。

It was hot; and after walking some time over the gardens in a scattered, dispersed way, scarcely any three together, they insensibly followed one another to the delicious shade of a broad short avenue of limes, which stretching beyond the garden at an equal distance from the river, seemed the finish of the pleasure grounds.— It led to nothing; nothing but a view at the end over a low stone wall with high pillars, which seemed intended, in their erection, to give the appearance of an approach to the house, which never had been there. Disputable, however, as might be the taste of such a termination, it was in itself a charming walk, and the view which closed it extremely pretty.—The considerable slope, at nearly the foot of which the Abbey stood, gradually acquired a steeper form beyond its grounds; and at half a mile distant was a bank of considerable abruptness and grandeur, well clothed with wood;— and at the bottom of this bank, favourably placed and sheltered, rose the Abbey Mill Farm, with meadows in front, and the river making a close and handsome curve around it.
它是热的;他们分散地、分散地、几乎没有三个人在一起，在花园里走了一段时间后，不知不觉地互相跟随到了一条宽阔、短小的椴树大道的迷人树荫下，这条大道延伸到花园之外，与河流的距离相等，游乐场似乎已经结束了。——什么结果也没有；尽头只能看到一堵低矮的石墙，上面有高高的柱子，这些柱子的竖立似乎是为了给人一种通向房子的通道的感觉，但实际上从来没有出现过。然而，这样的终点的味道可能是有争议的，它本身就是一次迷人的步行，而且关闭它的景色非常美丽。——相当大的斜坡，靠近修道院所在的脚下，逐渐变得更加陡峭。形式超出其基础；半英里之外是一座相当陡峭和宏伟的河岸，上面布满了木头；在河岸的底部，位置优越，受到庇护，矗立着修道院磨坊农场，前面是草地，河水形成了一条河流。周围的曲线紧密而帅气。

It was a sweet view—sweet to the eye and the mind. English verdure, English culture, English comfort, seen under a sun bright, without being oppressive.
这是一个甜蜜的景色——赏心悦目、心旷神怡。英国的青翠，英国的文化，英国的舒适，在明亮的阳光下显得毫无压迫感。

In this walk Emma and Mr. Weston found all the others assembled; and towards this view she immediately perceived Mr. Knightley and Harriet distinct from the rest, quietly leading the way. Mr. Knightley and Harriet!—It was an odd tete-a-tete; but she was glad to see it.—There had been a time when he would have scorned her as a companion, and turned from her with little ceremony. Now they seemed in pleasant conversation. There had been a time also when Emma would have been sorry to see Harriet in a spot so favourable for the Abbey Mill Farm; but now she feared it not. It might be safely viewed with all its appendages of prosperity and beauty, its rich pastures, spreading flocks, orchard in blossom, and light column of smoke ascending.—She joined them at the wall, and found them more engaged in talking than in looking around. He was giving Harriet information as to modes of agriculture, etc. and Emma received a smile which seemed to say, ‘These are my own concerns. I have a right to talk on such subjects, without being suspected of introducing Robert Martin.’—She did not suspect him. It was too old a story.—Robert Martin had probably ceased to think of Harriet.—They took a few turns together along the walk.—The shade was most refreshing, and Emma found it the pleasantest part of the day.
在这次散步中，艾玛和韦斯顿先生发现所有其他人都聚集在一起。看到这个景色，她立刻就看出奈特利先生和哈丽雅特与其他人截然不同，他们静静地在前面引路。奈特利先生和哈丽特！——这是一次奇怪的面对面的交谈。但她很高兴看到这一点。——曾经有一段时间，他会蔑视她作为同伴，并且毫不客气地离开她。现在他们似乎正在愉快地交谈。也曾有一段时间，艾玛看到哈丽特出现在对艾比米尔农场如此有利的地方，她一定会感到遗憾。但现在她不再害怕了。可以安全地看到它的繁荣和美丽的所有附属物，它肥沃的牧场，散布的羊群，鲜花盛开的果园，以及升起的轻烟柱。——她在墙边加入了他们，发现他们更多地在谈论而不是在看。大约。他正在向哈丽特提供有关农业模式等方面的信息，艾玛微笑着，似乎在说：“这些是我自己关心的事情。”我有权谈论这些话题，而不会被怀疑介绍罗伯特·马丁。”——她没有怀疑他。这是一个太古老的故事了。——罗伯特·马丁可能已经不再想起哈丽特了。——他们一起沿着步道转了几个弯。——树荫最令人神清气爽，艾玛发现这是一天中最愉快的时刻。

The next remove was to the house; they must all go in and eat;— and they were all seated and busy, and still Frank Churchill did not come. Mrs. Weston looked, and looked in vain. His father would not own himself uneasy, and laughed at her fears; but she could not be cured of wishing that he would part with his black mare. He had expressed himself as to coming, with more than common certainty. ‘His aunt was so much better, that he had not a doubt of getting over to them.’—Mrs. Churchill’s state, however, as many were ready to remind her, was liable to such sudden variation as might disappoint her nephew in the most reasonable dependence—and Mrs. Weston was at last persuaded to believe, or to say, that it must be by some attack of Mrs. Churchill that he was prevented coming.— Emma looked at Harriet while the point was under consideration; she behaved very well, and betrayed no emotion.
下一个搬家地点是房子。他们都必须进去吃饭；——他们都坐下来忙着，但弗兰克·丘吉尔还是没有来。韦斯顿夫人看了看，但徒劳无功。他的父亲不肯承认自己感到不安，并嘲笑她的恐惧。但她还是无法治愈他希望他与他的黑母马分开的愿望。他已经非常肯定地表示自己会来。 “他的姨妈好多了，所以他毫不犹豫地能过去了。”——卡西尔夫人然而，正如许多人准备提醒她的那样，丘吉尔的状态很容易发生突然的变化，这可能会让她最合理的依赖的侄子失望——而韦斯顿夫人最终被说服相信，或者说，这一定是由丘吉尔夫人对他进行了攻击，阻止他来。——爱玛在考虑这一点时看着哈丽特。她表现得很好，没有流露出任何情绪。

The cold repast was over, and the party were to go out once more to see what had not yet been seen, the old Abbey fish-ponds; perhaps get as far as the clover, which was to be begun cutting on the morrow, or, at any rate, have the pleasure of being hot, and growing cool again.—Mr. Woodhouse, who had already taken his little round in the highest part of the gardens, where no damps from the river were imagined even by him, stirred no more; and his daughter resolved to remain with him, that Mrs. Weston might be persuaded away by her husband to the exercise and variety which her spirits seemed to need.
冷餐结束后，大家要再次出去看看尚未见过的地方，即古老的修道院鱼塘；也许能赶到明天就开始收割的三叶草，或者无论如何，享受一下炎热的快乐，然后又变得凉爽。——先生。伍德豪斯已经在花园的最高处转了一圈，连他自己也想象不到那里有河水的湿气，他不再动弹了。他的女儿决定留在他身边，韦斯顿夫人可能会被她的丈夫说服去参加她的精神似乎需要的锻炼和变化。

Mr. Knightley had done all in his power for Mr. Woodhouse’s entertainment. Books of engravings, drawers of medals, cameos, corals, shells, and every other family collection within his cabinets, had been prepared for his old friend, to while away the morning; and the kindness had perfectly answered. Mr. Woodhouse had been exceedingly well amused. Mrs. Weston had been shewing them all to him, and now he would shew them all to Emma;—fortunate in having no other resemblance to a child, than in a total want of taste for what he saw, for he was slow, constant, and methodical.—Before this second looking over was begun, however, Emma walked into the hall for the sake of a few moments’ free observation of the entrance and ground-plot of the house—and was hardly there, when Jane Fairfax appeared, coming quickly in from the garden, and with a look of escape.— Little expecting to meet Miss Woodhouse so soon, there was a start at first; but Miss Woodhouse was the very person she was in quest of.
奈特利先生已竭尽全力为伍德豪斯先生提供娱乐。他橱柜里的雕刻书籍、奖章抽屉、浮雕、珊瑚、贝壳以及其他所有家庭收藏品，都是为他的老朋友准备的，以消磨早晨的时光。善意得到了完美的回应。伍德豪斯先生被逗乐了。韦斯顿夫人已经把它们全部展示给他看，现在他也要把它们全部展示给艾玛；幸运的是，除了完全缺乏对所见事物的品味之外，他与一个孩子没有任何相似之处，因为他行动迟缓，始终如一。 ，而且有条不紊。——然而，在第二次检查开始之前，艾玛走进大厅，想自由观察一下房子的入口和地面——但她还没到，简·费尔法克斯就出现了。 ，快步从花园里进来，带着逃跑的表情。——没想到这么快就能见到伍德豪斯小姐，一开始就吃了一惊；但伍德豪斯小姐正是她要找的人。

‘Will you be so kind,’ said she, ‘when I am missed, as to say that I am gone home?—I am going this moment.—My aunt is not aware how late it is, nor how long we have been absent—but I am sure we shall be wanted, and I am determined to go directly.—I have said nothing about it to any body. It would only be giving trouble and distress. Some are gone to the ponds, and some to the lime walk. Till they all come in I shall not be missed; and when they do, will you have the goodness to say that I am gone?’
“当我想念我的时候，你能好心告诉我我回家了吗？——我现在就走。——我姨妈不知道已经晚了，也不知道我们已经回家了多久。”缺席——但我确信我们会被通缉，而且我决心直接去。——我没有对任何人说过这件事。这只会带来麻烦和痛苦。有些人去了池塘，有些人去石灰步道。在他们全部进来之前，我不会被错过；当他们这样做的时候，你能好心地告诉我我已经走了吗？

‘Certainly, if you wish it;—but you are not going to walk to Highbury alone?’
“当然，如果你愿意的话；——但是你不打算独自步行去海布里吗？”

‘Yes—what should hurt me?—I walk fast. I shall be at home in twenty minutes.’
“是的——什么会伤害我？——我走得很快。”二十分钟后我就到家了。

‘But it is too far, indeed it is, to be walking quite alone. Let my father’s servant go with you.—Let me order the carriage. It can be round in five minutes.’
“但是，确实是太远了，独自一人行走实在是太远了。”让我父亲的仆人跟你一起去吧。——我去叫马车。五分钟内就可以圆了。”

‘Thank you, thank you—but on no account.—I would rather walk.— And for me to be afraid of walking alone!—I, who may so soon have to guard others!’
“谢谢你，谢谢你——但无论如何。——我宁愿步行。——而且我害怕独自行走！——我，可能很快就要保护别人了！”

She spoke with great agitation; and Emma very feelingly replied, ‘That can be no reason for your being exposed to danger now. I must order the carriage. The heat even would be danger.—You are fatigued already.’
她说话时非常激动。艾玛深情地回答道：“这不能成为你现在面临危险的理由。”我必须订马车。炎热甚至会很危险。——你已经累了。

‘I am,’—she answered—‘I am fatigued; but it is not the sort of fatigue—quick walking will refresh me.—Miss Woodhouse, we all know at times what it is to be wearied in spirits. Mine, I confess, are exhausted. The greatest kindness you can shew me, will be to let me have my own way, and only say that I am gone when it is necessary.’
“我是，”她回答道，“我很累；我很累。”但这不是那种疲劳——快走会让我精神焕发。——伍德豪斯小姐，我们有时都知道精神疲倦是什么感觉。我承认，我的已经筋疲力尽了。你能给予我的最大善意，就是让我走自己的路，只在必要的时候才说我走了。”

Emma had not another word to oppose. She saw it all; and entering into her feelings, promoted her quitting the house immediately, and watched her safely off with the zeal of a friend. Her parting look was grateful—and her parting words, ‘Oh! Miss Woodhouse, the comfort of being sometimes alone!’—seemed to burst from an overcharged heart, and to describe somewhat of the continual endurance to be practised by her, even towards some of those who loved her best.
艾玛没有话可反对。她看到了这一切；并深入了解她的感受，立即促使她离开家，并以朋友的热情目送她安全离开。她临别时的表情充满感激——临别时她说：‘哦！伍德豪斯小姐，有时独处的安慰！”——似乎是从一颗过度充电的心爆发出来的，并在某种程度上描述了她所练习的持续忍耐，即使是对一些最爱她的人。

‘Such a home, indeed! such an aunt!’ said Emma, as she turned back into the hall again. ‘I do pity you. And the more sensibility you betray of their just horrors, the more I shall like you.’
‘确实是这样的一个家！ “真是一位阿姨！”艾玛一边说，一边又转身回到大厅。 ‘我真可怜你。你对他们的正义恐怖越表现出敏感性，我就越喜欢你。

Jane had not been gone a quarter of an hour, and they had only accomplished some views of St. Mark’s Place, Venice, when Frank Churchill entered the room. Emma had not been thinking of him, she had forgotten to think of him—but she was very glad to see him. Mrs. Weston would be at ease. The black mare was blameless; they were right who had named Mrs. Churchill as the cause. He had been detained by a temporary increase of illness in her; a nervous seizure, which had lasted some hours—and he had quite given up every thought of coming, till very late;—and had he known how hot a ride he should have, and how late, with all his hurry, he must be, he believed he should not have come at all. The heat was excessive; he had never suffered any thing like it—almost wished he had staid at home—nothing killed him like heat—he could bear any degree of cold, etc., but heat was intolerable—and he sat down, at the greatest possible distance from the slight remains of Mr. Woodhouse’s fire, looking very deplorable.
简离开还不到一刻钟，他们才看了威尼斯圣马可广场的一些风景，弗兰克·丘吉尔就走进了房间。艾玛没有想到他，她已经忘记了想到他——但她很高兴见到他。韦斯顿夫人会放心的。黑母马是无可指摘的；他们指出丘吉尔夫人是原因是对的。由于她的病情暂时加重，他被拘留了。神经抽搐，持续了几个小时——他已经放弃了一切来的想法，直到很晚了；——如果他知道他应该乘坐多热的车，以及他必须要迟到多晚，他必须如此匆忙，他认为自己根本不应该来。天气太热了；他从来没有受过这样的事——几乎希望他呆在家里——没有什么比炎热更能杀死他了——他可以忍受任何程度的寒冷，等等，但炎热是无法忍受的——然后他坐下来，尽可能远离别人。伍德豪斯先生的火还剩下一点点痕迹，看起来非常可怜。

‘You will soon be cooler, if you sit still,’ said Emma.
“如果你坐着不动，你很快就会变得凉爽，”艾玛说。

‘As soon as I am cooler I shall go back again. I could very ill be spared—but such a point had been made of my coming! You will all be going soon I suppose; the whole party breaking up. I met one as I came—Madness in such weather!—absolute madness!’
“等我冷静下来，我就会再回去。”我很可能无法幸免——但我的到来就是为了这一点！我想你们很快就会走；整个聚会散了。我来的时候遇到了一个——这样的天气真是疯狂！——绝对的疯狂！”

Emma listened, and looked, and soon perceived that Frank Churchill’s state might be best defined by the expressive phrase of being out of humour. Some people were always cross when they were hot. Such might be his constitution; and as she knew that eating and drinking were often the cure of such incidental complaints, she recommended his taking some refreshment; he would find abundance of every thing in the dining-room—and she humanely pointed out the door.
艾玛听了又看了，很快就意识到弗兰克·丘吉尔的状态最好用“缺乏幽默感”这个表达短语来定义。有些人一热起来就脾气暴躁。这可能就是他的体质；由于她知道吃喝往往可以治愈这种偶然的不适，所以她建议他吃点点心。他会发现餐厅里的每样东西都丰富——她仁慈地指着门外。

‘No—he should not eat. He was not hungry; it would only make him hotter.’ In two minutes, however, he relented in his own favour; and muttering something about spruce-beer, walked off. Emma returned all her attention to her father, saying in secret—
“不——他不应该吃东西。他不饿；他不饿。 “这只会让他更热。”然而，两分钟后，他的态度就软化了。嘀咕了一些云杉啤酒的事，就走开了。艾玛将全部注意力集中到父亲身上，暗暗说道——

‘I am glad I have done being in love with him. I should not like a man who is so soon discomposed by a hot morning. Harriet’s sweet easy temper will not mind it.’
“我很高兴我已经爱上他了。我不应该喜欢一个因为炎热的早晨而很快就心烦意乱的人。哈丽特的可爱随和的脾气不会介意的。

He was gone long enough to have had a very comfortable meal, and came back all the better—grown quite cool—and, with good manners, like himself—able to draw a chair close to them, take an interest in their employment; and regret, in a reasonable way, that he should be so late. He was not in his best spirits, but seemed trying to improve them; and, at last, made himself talk nonsense very agreeably. They were looking over views in Swisserland.
他走了足够长的时间，吃了一顿非常舒适的饭，回来时情况好多了——变得很冷静——而且像他自己一样有礼貌——能够把椅子拉到他们身边，对他们的工作感兴趣；并以合理的方式为他迟到而感到遗憾。他的精神状态不佳，但似乎正在努力改善。最后，他让自己非常愉快地胡说八道。他们正在眺望瑞士的景色。

‘As soon as my aunt gets well, I shall go abroad,’ said he. ‘I shall never be easy till I have seen some of these places. You will have my sketches, some time or other, to look at—or my tour to read—or my poem. I shall do something to expose myself.’
“等我姨妈康复了，我就出国。”他说。 “除非我参观了其中一些地方，否则我永远不会轻松。有一天，你会看到我的草图——或者我的旅行——或者我的诗。我会做一些事情来暴露自己。

‘That may be—but not by sketches in Swisserland. You will never go to Swisserland. Your uncle and aunt will never allow you to leave England.’
“也许是这样——但不是瑞士的草图。你永远不会去瑞士。你的叔叔和阿姨永远不会允许你离开英国。”

‘They may be induced to go too. A warm climate may be prescribed for her. I have more than half an expectation of our all going abroad. I assure you I have. I feel a strong persuasion, this morning, that I shall soon be abroad. I ought to travel. I am tired of doing nothing. I want a change. I am serious, Miss Woodhouse, whatever your penetrating eyes may fancy—I am sick of England— and would leave it to-morrow, if I could.’
“他们也可能被诱导去。可能会为她规定温暖的气候。我对我们大家出国抱有一大半的期待。我向你保证我有。今天早上，我有一种强烈的信念，我很快就会出国。我应该去旅行。我厌倦了无所事事。我想要改变。我是认真的，伍德豪斯小姐，无论你的洞察力如何，我厌倦了英格兰，如果可以的话，明天我就会离开它。

‘You are sick of prosperity and indulgence. Cannot you invent a few hardships for yourself, and be contented to stay?’
‘你厌倦了繁荣和放纵。你就不能给自己制造一些困难，然后心满意足地留下来吗？

‘I sick of prosperity and indulgence! You are quite mistaken. I do not look upon myself as either prosperous or indulged. I am thwarted in every thing material. I do not consider myself at all a fortunate person.’
“我厌倦了繁荣和放纵！你就大错特错了。我不认为自己是富裕的或放纵的。我在一切物质上都受挫。我不认为自己是一个幸运的人。

‘You are not quite so miserable, though, as when you first came. Go and eat and drink a little more, and you will do very well. Another slice of cold meat, another draught of Madeira and water, will make you nearly on a par with the rest of us.’
“不过，你并不像刚来的时候那么痛苦。去多吃点、多喝点吧，你会做得很好的。再吃一片冷肉，再喝一杯马德拉酒和水，你就几乎和我们其他人一样了。

‘No—I shall not stir. I shall sit by you. You are my best cure.’
“不——我不会动。”我会坐在你身边。你是我最好的治疗方法。

‘We are going to Box Hill to-morrow;—you will join us. It is not Swisserland, but it will be something for a young man so much in want of a change. You will stay, and go with us?’
“我们明天要去博士山；——你也加入我们吧。这不是瑞士，但对于一个渴望改变的年轻人来说，这将是一个美好的地方。你会留下来和我们一起走吗？

‘No, certainly not; I shall go home in the cool of the evening.’
“不，当然不是；”我会在晚上凉爽的时候回家。

‘But you may come again in the cool of to-morrow morning.’
“但是明天早上凉爽的时候你可以再来。”

‘No—It will not be worth while. If I come, I shall be cross.’
“不——不值得。”如果我来了，我会生气的。

‘Then pray stay at Richmond.’
“那就祈祷留在里士满吧。”

‘But if I do, I shall be crosser still. I can never bear to think of you all there without me.’
“但如果我这么做了，我会更生气。”我永远无法忍受想到你们都在那里，没有我在场。

‘These are difficulties which you must settle for yourself. Chuse your own degree of crossness. I shall press you no more.’
‘这些都是你必须自己解决的困难。选择你自己的暴躁程度。我不会再催促你了。

The rest of the party were now returning, and all were soon collected. With some there was great joy at the sight of Frank Churchill; others took it very composedly; but there was a very general distress and disturbance on Miss Fairfax’s disappearance being explained. That it was time for every body to go, concluded the subject; and with a short final arrangement for the next day’s scheme, they parted. Frank Churchill’s little inclination to exclude himself increased so much, that his last words to Emma were,
其余的人现在都回来了，很快就都集合了。有些人一看到弗兰克·丘吉尔就非常高兴；有些人则非常高兴。其他人则很平静地看待这件事。但对于费尔法克斯小姐失踪的解释，人们普遍感到悲痛和不安。话题结束了，大家都该离开了。对第二天的计划做了简短的最后安排后，他们就分手了。弗兰克·丘吉尔的排斥自己的倾向变得如此之大，以至于他对艾玛说的最后一句话是：

‘Well;—if you wish me to stay and join the party, I will.’
“好吧；——如果你希望我留下来参加聚会，我会的。”

She smiled her acceptance; and nothing less than a summons from Richmond was to take him back before the following evening.
她微笑着表示接受。第二天晚上之前，里士满就会发出传票把他带回来。

Chapter VII
第七章

They had a very fine day for Box Hill; and all the other outward circumstances of arrangement, accommodation, and punctuality, were in favour of a pleasant party. Mr. Weston directed the whole, officiating safely between Hartfield and the Vicarage, and every body was in good time. Emma and Harriet went together; Miss Bates and her niece, with the Eltons; the gentlemen on horseback. Mrs. Weston remained with Mr. Woodhouse. Nothing was wanting but to be happy when they got there. Seven miles were travelled in expectation of enjoyment, and every body had a burst of admiration on first arriving; but in the general amount of the day there was deficiency. There was a languor, a want of spirits, a want of union, which could not be got over. They separated too much into parties. The Eltons walked together; Mr. Knightley took charge of Miss Bates and Jane; and Emma and Harriet belonged to Frank Churchill. And Mr. Weston tried, in vain, to make them harmonise better. It seemed at first an accidental division, but it never materially varied. Mr. and Mrs. Elton, indeed, shewed no unwillingness to mix, and be as agreeable as they could; but during the two whole hours that were spent on the hill, there seemed a principle of separation, between the other parties, too strong for any fine prospects, or any cold collation, or any cheerful Mr. Weston, to remove.
他们在博士山度过了非常美好的一天；所有其他外在的安排、住宿和准时情况都有助于这次聚会的愉快。韦斯顿先生指挥了整个过程，在哈特菲尔德和牧师住宅之间安全地主持了仪式，每个人都及时赶到了。艾玛和哈丽特一起去；贝茨小姐和她的侄女，以及埃尔顿一家；马背上的绅士们。韦斯顿夫人留在伍德豪斯先生身边。当他们到达那里时，什么都不想要，只是感到高兴。七英里的旅程充满了期待，每个人在第一次到达时都爆发出一阵钦佩。但总体来说，一天的量是不足的。有一种无力、缺乏精神、缺乏团结的感觉，这是无法克服的。他们过于分裂。埃尔顿一家走在一起；奈特利先生负责照顾贝茨小姐和简。艾玛和哈里特属于弗兰克·丘吉尔。韦斯顿先生试图让他们更好地协调，但徒劳无功。乍一看，这似乎是一次偶然的划分，但实际上从未发生过重大变化。事实上，埃尔顿夫妇并没有表现出不愿意交往，并且尽可能地表现得和蔼可亲。但在山上度过的整整两个小时里，其他各方之间似乎有一种分离的原则，对于任何美好的前景、任何冷酷的整理或任何快乐的韦斯顿先生来说，都太强烈了，无法消除。

At first it was downright dulness to Emma. She had never seen Frank Churchill so silent and stupid. He said nothing worth hearing— looked without seeing—admired without intelligence—listened without knowing what she said. While he was so dull, it was no wonder that Harriet should be dull likewise; and they were both insufferable.
起初，艾玛觉得这完全是愚蠢的。她从未见过弗兰克·丘吉尔如此沉默和愚蠢。他没有说过任何值得听的话——只是看而不看；钦佩而不聪明；听而不知道她在说什么。他这么迟钝，难怪哈丽特也同样迟钝。他们都难以忍受。

When they all sat down it was better; to her taste a great deal better, for Frank Churchill grew talkative and gay, making her his first object. Every distinguishing attention that could be paid, was paid to her. To amuse her, and be agreeable in her eyes, seemed all that he cared for—and Emma, glad to be enlivened, not sorry to be flattered, was gay and easy too, and gave him all the friendly encouragement, the admission to be gallant, which she had ever given in the first and most animating period of their acquaintance; but which now, in her own estimation, meant nothing, though in the judgment of most people looking on it must have had such an appearance as no English word but flirtation could very well describe. ‘Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse flirted together excessively.’ They were laying themselves open to that very phrase—and to having it sent off in a letter to Maple Grove by one lady, to Ireland by another. Not that Emma was gay and thoughtless from any real felicity; it was rather because she felt less happy than she had expected. She laughed because she was disappointed; and though she liked him for his attentions, and thought them all, whether in friendship, admiration, or playfulness, extremely judicious, they were not winning back her heart. She still intended him for her friend.
当他们都坐下来时，情况就好多了。她的品味要好得多，因为弗兰克·丘吉尔变得健谈和快乐，使她成为他的第一个对象。所有可以给予的特别关注都集中在她身上。逗她开心，在她眼里讨人喜欢，似乎是他所关心的一切——而艾玛，很高兴自己变得活跃起来，也不为受宠若惊而感到遗憾，她也很快乐，很随和，给了他所有友好的鼓励，承认自己是她们刚认识的时候，也是最有活力的时期，她就表现出了英勇的态度。但现在，在她看来，这毫无意义，尽管在大多数人看来，它的外观一定是英语单词“调情”才能很好地描述的。 '先生。弗兰克·丘吉尔和伍德豪斯小姐在一起调情过度。”他们对这句话持开放态度，并愿意将其通过一位女士写给枫树格罗夫的信寄出，另一位女士寄给爱尔兰的信中。艾玛并不是因为真正的幸福而快乐、轻率。而是因为她感觉没有想象中那么幸福。她笑是因为她失望；她笑是因为她失望。尽管她喜欢他的关注，并且认为他的关注，无论是友谊、钦佩还是嬉戏，都非常明智，但他们并没有赢回她的心。她仍然想让他成为她的朋友。

‘How much I am obliged to you,’ said he, ‘for telling me to come to-day!— If it had not been for you, I should certainly have lost all the happiness of this party. I had quite determined to go away again.’
“我多么感激你，”他说，“你让我今天来！——如果不是你，我肯定会失去这次聚会的所有幸福。”我已经下定决心要再次离开。

‘Yes, you were very cross; and I do not know what about, except that you were too late for the best strawberries. I was a kinder friend than you deserved. But you were humble. You begged hard to be commanded to come.’
“是的，你很生气；我不知道是怎么回事，只是你来得太晚了，没有吃到最好的草莓。我是一个比你应得的更友善的朋友。但你很谦虚。你苦苦哀求被命令来。

‘Don’t say I was cross. I was fatigued. The heat overcame me.’
‘别说我生气了。我很累。炎热淹没了我。

‘It is hotter to-day.’
“今天更热了。”

‘Not to my feelings. I am perfectly comfortable to-day.’
‘不符合我的感觉。我今天感觉非常舒服。

‘You are comfortable because you are under command.’
“你很舒服，因为你受到指挥。”

‘Your command?—Yes.’
“你的命令？——是的。”

‘Perhaps I intended you to say so, but I meant self-command. You had, somehow or other, broken bounds yesterday, and run away from your own management; but to-day you are got back again—and as I cannot be always with you, it is best to believe your temper under your own command rather than mine.’
“也许我本来想让你这么说，但我的意思是自我控制。昨天你不知何故打破了界限，逃离了自己的管理；但今天你又回来了——而且我不能一直和你在一起，所以最好相信你的脾气是在你自己的指挥下，而不是在我的指挥下。”

‘It comes to the same thing. I can have no self-command without a motive. You order me, whether you speak or not. And you can be always with me. You are always with me.’
‘这都是同一件事。没有动机我就不可能有自制力。不管你说话与否，你都在命令我。你可以永远和我在一起。你总是和我在一起。

‘Dating from three o’clock yesterday. My perpetual influence could not begin earlier, or you would not have been so much out of humour before.’
‘从昨天三点开始。我的永久影响不能更早开始，否则你以前就不会这么不幽默了。

‘Three o’clock yesterday! That is your date. I thought I had seen you first in February.’
‘昨天三点了！那是你的约会。我以为我第一次见到你是在二月份。

‘Your gallantry is really unanswerable. But (lowering her voice)— nobody speaks except ourselves, and it is rather too much to be talking nonsense for the entertainment of seven silent people.’
‘你的殷勤实在是无可辩驳。但是（压低声音）——除了我们自己，没有人说话，为了娱乐七个沉默的人而胡言乱语也太过分了。

‘I say nothing of which I am ashamed,’ replied he, with lively impudence. ‘I saw you first in February. Let every body on the Hill hear me if they can. Let my accents swell to Mickleham on one side, and Dorking on the other. I saw you first in February.’ And then whispering— ‘Our companions are excessively stupid. What shall we do to rouse them? Any nonsense will serve. They shall talk. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ordered by Miss Woodhouse (who, wherever she is, presides) to say, that she desires to know what you are all thinking of?’
“我没有说任何令我感到羞耻的话。”他毫不顾忌地回答道。 “我第一次见到你是在二月份。如果可以的话，让山上的每个人都听到我的声音。让我的口音一方面是米克勒姆，另一方面是多尔金。我第一次见到你是在二月份。”然后低声说道——“我们的同伴太愚蠢了。我们该怎样做才能唤醒他们呢？任何废话都会有用。他们会说话。女士们先生们，伍德豪斯小姐（无论她在哪里，她都主持会议）命令我说，她想知道你们都在想什么？

Some laughed, and answered good-humouredly. Miss Bates said a great deal; Mrs. Elton swelled at the idea of Miss Woodhouse’s presiding; Mr. Knightley’s answer was the most distinct.
有的笑了，幽默地回答。贝茨小姐说了很多。埃尔顿夫人对伍德豪斯小姐主持会议的想法感到欣喜若狂。奈特利先生的回答最为明确。

‘Is Miss Woodhouse sure that she would like to hear what we are all thinking of?’
“伍德豪斯小姐确定她想听听我们大家的想法吗？”

‘Oh! no, no’—cried Emma, laughing as carelessly as she could— ‘Upon no account in the world. It is the very last thing I would stand the brunt of just now. Let me hear any thing rather than what you are all thinking of. I will not say quite all. There are one or two, perhaps, (glancing at Mr. Weston and Harriet,) whose thoughts I might not be afraid of knowing.’
'哦！不，不”——艾玛喊道，尽可能漫不经心地大笑——“绝对不会。”这是我现在最不愿意承受的事情。让我听听任何事情而不是你们都在想什么。我不会说全部。也许有一两个人（瞥了一眼韦斯顿先生和哈里特）我可能不害怕知道他们的想法。

‘It is a sort of thing,’ cried Mrs. Elton emphatically, ‘which I should not have thought myself privileged to inquire into. Though, perhaps, as the Chaperon of the party— I never was in any circle—exploring parties—young ladies—married women—‘
“这是一件事，”埃尔顿夫人强调道，“我不应该认为自己有特权去探究它。虽然，也许，作为派对的监护人——我从来没有参加过任何圈子——探索派对——年轻女士——已婚妇女——”

Her mutterings were chiefly to her husband; and he murmured, in reply,
她的嘀咕主要是对她的丈夫说的。他低声回答道：

‘Very true, my love, very true. Exactly so, indeed—quite unheard of— but some ladies say any thing. Better pass it off as a joke. Every body knows what is due to you.’
‘非常真实，亲爱的，非常真实。确实如此——闻所未闻——但有些女士却说什么都行。最好把它当作一个笑话。每个人都知道你会得到什么。”

‘It will not do,’ whispered Frank to Emma; ‘they are most of them affronted. I will attack them with more address. Ladies and gentlemen—I am ordered by Miss Woodhouse to say, that she waives her right of knowing exactly what you may all be thinking of, and only requires something very entertaining from each of you, in a general way. Here are seven of you, besides myself, (who, she is pleased to say, am very entertaining already,) and she only demands from each of you either one thing very clever, be it prose or verse, original or repeated—or two things moderately clever— or three things very dull indeed, and she engages to laugh heartily at them all.’
“不行，”弗兰克低声对艾玛说。 ‘他们中的大多数人都受到了侮辱。我会用更多的地址攻击他们。女士们先生们——伍德豪斯小姐命令我说，她放弃了准确了解你们所有人可能在想什么的权利，只要求你们每个人以一般的方式提供一些非常有趣的东西。这里有你们七个人，除了我自己（她很高兴地说，我已经很有趣了），她只要求你们每个人做一件非常聪明的事情，无论是散文还是诗歌，原创的还是重复的——或者两件“有些事情是比较聪明的——或者是三件事确实很乏味，而她却对它们全都开怀大笑。”

‘Oh! very well,’ exclaimed Miss Bates, ‘then I need not be uneasy. ‘Three things very dull indeed.’ That will just do for me, you know. I shall be sure to say three dull things as soon as ever I open my mouth, shan’t I? (looking round with the most good-humoured dependence on every body’s assent)—Do not you all think I shall?’
'哦！很好，”贝茨小姐惊呼道，“那我就不用担心了。 “确实有三件事很无聊。”你知道，这对我来说正好。我一开口肯定会说三句无聊的话不是吗？ （环顾四周，以最友善的态度依赖每个人的同意）——你们不认为我会这样做吗？

Emma could not resist.
艾玛无法抗拒。

‘Ah! ma’am, but there may be a difficulty. Pardon me—but you will be limited as to number—only three at once.’
'啊！女士，但是可能会有困难。请原谅我——但你的人数会受到限制——一次只能三个。”

Miss Bates, deceived by the mock ceremony of her manner, did not immediately catch her meaning; but, when it burst on her, it could not anger, though a slight blush shewed that it could pain her.
贝茨小姐被她那假装仪式的态度所欺骗，没有立即明白她的意思。但是，当它在她身上爆发时，它不会生气，尽管轻微的脸红表明它会让她感到痛苦。

‘Ah!—well—to be sure. Yes, I see what she means, (turning to Mr. Knightley,) and I will try to hold my tongue. I must make myself very disagreeable, or she would not have said such a thing to an old friend.’
“啊！——嗯——当然。是的，我明白她的意思，（转向奈特利先生），我会尽量保持沉默。我必须让自己变得非常不愉快，否则她不会对一个老朋友说这样的话。

‘I like your plan,’ cried Mr. Weston. ‘Agreed, agreed. I will do my best. I am making a conundrum. How will a conundrum reckon?’
“我喜欢你的计划，”韦斯顿先生喊道。 ‘同意，同意。我会尽力而为。我正在做一个难题。难题将如何计算？

‘Low, I am afraid, sir, very low,’ answered his son;—‘but we shall be indulgent—especially to any one who leads the way.’
“恐怕很低，先生，非常低，”他的儿子回答道，“但我们会宽容——尤其是对任何带路的人。”

‘No, no,’ said Emma, ‘it will not reckon low. A conundrum of Mr. Weston’s shall clear him and his next neighbour. Come, sir, pray let me hear it.’
“不，不，”艾玛说，“这个数字不会低。”韦斯顿先生的一个难题将使他和他的下一个邻居解脱。来吧，先生，请让我听听。”

‘I doubt its being very clever myself,’ said Mr. Weston. ‘It is too much a matter of fact, but here it is.—What two letters of the alphabet are there, that express perfection?’
“我怀疑我自己是否很聪明，”韦斯顿先生说。 “事实上，这太过分了，但事实就是如此。——哪两个字母可以表达完美？”

‘What two letters!—express perfection! I am sure I do not know.’
“多好的两个字母啊！——表达完美！”我确信我不知道。

‘Ah! you will never guess. You, (to Emma), I am certain, will never guess.—I will tell you.—M. and A.—Em-ma.—Do you understand?’
'啊！你永远不会猜到。我确信你（对艾玛）永远不会猜到。——我会告诉你。——M.和 A.——艾玛——你明白吗？

Understanding and gratification came together. It might be a very indifferent piece of wit, but Emma found a great deal to laugh at and enjoy in it—and so did Frank and Harriet.—It did not seem to touch the rest of the party equally; some looked very stupid about it, and Mr. Knightley gravely said,
理解和满足同时出现。这可能是一个非常冷漠的俏皮话，但艾玛发现其中有很多可笑和享受的地方——弗兰克和哈丽特也是如此。有些人对此显得非常愚蠢，奈特利先生严肃地说：

‘This explains the sort of clever thing that is wanted, and Mr. Weston has done very well for himself; but he must have knocked up every body else. Perfection should not have come quite so soon.’
“这解释了我们想要的那种聪明的事情，韦斯顿先生为自己做得很好；但他肯定已经把其他人都撞倒了。完美不应该来得这么快。”

‘Oh! for myself, I protest I must be excused,’ said Mrs. Elton; ‘I really cannot attempt—I am not at all fond of the sort of thing. I had an acrostic once sent to me upon my own name, which I was not at all pleased with. I knew who it came from. An abominable puppy!— You know who I mean (nodding to her husband). These kind of things are very well at Christmas, when one is sitting round the fire; but quite out of place, in my opinion, when one is exploring about the country in summer. Miss Woodhouse must excuse me. I am not one of those who have witty things at every body’s service. I do not pretend to be a wit. I have a great deal of vivacity in my own way, but I really must be allowed to judge when to speak and when to hold my tongue. Pass us, if you please, Mr. Churchill. Pass Mr. E., Knightley, Jane, and myself. We have nothing clever to say— not one of us.
'哦！ “就我个人而言，我抗议我必须被原谅，”埃尔顿夫人说。 ‘我实在不敢尝试——我一点也不喜欢这种事情。曾经有人寄给我一首以我自己名字命名的离合诗，但我对此一点也不满意。我知道它来自谁。一只可恶的小狗！——你知道我指的是谁（向她的丈夫点头）。当人们围坐在火炉旁时，这种事情在圣诞节非常好；但在我看来，当一个人在夏天探索这个国家时，这是非常不合适的。伍德豪斯小姐请原谅。我不是那些为所有人服务的人之一。我不假装自己是个机智的人。我以自己的方式充满活力，但我确实必须被允许判断何时说话、何时闭嘴。请让我们过去吧，丘吉尔先生。经过 E 先生、奈特利、简和我自己。我们没有什么聪明的话可说——我们中的任何一个人都没有。

‘Yes, yes, pray pass me,’ added her husband, with a sort of sneering consciousness; ‘I have nothing to say that can entertain Miss Woodhouse, or any other young lady. An old married man— quite good for nothing. Shall we walk, Augusta?’
“是的，是的，请让我过去，”她的丈夫带着一种冷笑的意识补充道。 “我没有什么话可以让伍德豪斯小姐或任何其他年轻女士高兴。一个已婚的老男人——一无是处。我们步行吧，奥古斯塔？

‘With all my heart. I am really tired of exploring so long on one spot. Come, Jane, take my other arm.’
'一心一意。我真的厌倦了在一个地方探索这么久。来吧，简，握住我的另一只手臂。

Jane declined it, however, and the husband and wife walked off. ‘Happy couple!’ said Frank Churchill, as soon as they were out of hearing:—‘How well they suit one another!—Very lucky—marrying as they did, upon an acquaintance formed only in a public place!—They only knew each other, I think, a few weeks in Bath! Peculiarly lucky!— for as to any real knowledge of a person’s disposition that Bath, or any public place, can give—it is all nothing; there can be no knowledge. It is only by seeing women in their own homes, among their own set, just as they always are, that you can form any just judgment. Short of that, it is all guess and luck— and will generally be ill-luck. How many a man has committed himself on a short acquaintance, and rued it all the rest of his life!’
然而简拒绝了，夫妻俩就走开了。 “幸福的一对！”他们一消失，弗兰克·丘吉尔就说道：“他们多么般配啊！——非常幸运——像他们一样结婚，只是在公共场所结识的！——他们只知道我想，彼此在巴斯待了几周吧！真是太幸运了！——对于巴斯或任何公共场所所能提供的关于一个人性情的真正了解——那都是无足轻重的。不可能没有知识。只有像往常一样，在自己的家里、在自己的群体中看到女性，你才能做出公正的判断。除此之外，一切都是猜测和运气——而且通常都是运气不好。有多少人因为短暂的相识而付出了自己的代价，并为此悔恨终生！

Miss Fairfax, who had seldom spoken before, except among her own confederates, spoke now.
费尔法克斯小姐以前很少说话，除了她自己的同伙之外，现在却说话了。

‘Such things do occur, undoubtedly.’—She was stopped by a cough. Frank Churchill turned towards her to listen.
“毫无疑问，这种事确实会发生。”——她被咳嗽声止住了。弗兰克·丘吉尔转向她倾听。

‘You were speaking,’ said he, gravely. She recovered her voice.
“你在说话，”他严肃地说。她恢复了声音。

‘I was only going to observe, that though such unfortunate circumstances do sometimes occur both to men and women, I cannot imagine them to be very frequent. A hasty and imprudent attachment may arise— but there is generally time to recover from it afterwards. I would be understood to mean, that it can be only weak, irresolute characters, (whose happiness must be always at the mercy of chance,) who will suffer an unfortunate acquaintance to be an inconvenience, an oppression for ever.’
“我只是想观察一下，尽管这种不幸的情况有时确实会发生在男性和女性身上，但我无法想象它们会非常频繁。仓促而轻率的依恋可能会出现——但之后通常有时间恢复。我的意思是，只有软弱、优柔寡断的人（他们的幸福总是取决于机会），才会让不幸的相识成为一种不便，一种永远的压迫。

He made no answer; merely looked, and bowed in submission; and soon afterwards said, in a lively tone,
他没有回答。只是看着，然后鞠躬表示屈服。不久之后就用活泼的语气说道：

‘Well, I have so little confidence in my own judgment, that whenever I marry, I hope some body will chuse my wife for me. Will you? (turning to Emma.) Will you chuse a wife for me?—I am sure I should like any body fixed on by you. You provide for the family, you know, (with a smile at his father). Find some body for me. I am in no hurry. Adopt her, educate her.’
“好吧，我对自己的判断没有什么信心，所以每当我结婚时，我都希望有人会为我选择我的妻子。你会？ （转向艾玛）你愿意为我挑选一个妻子吗？——我确信我会喜欢任何被你选中的人。你知道，你养家糊口（对他的父亲微笑）。给我找个身体。我不着急。收养她，教育她。

‘And make her like myself.’
“让她像我一样。”

‘By all means, if you can.’
“如果可以的话，无论如何。”

‘Very well. I undertake the commission. You shall have a charming wife.’
'很好。我承担委托。你将会有一个迷人的妻子。

‘She must be very lively, and have hazle eyes. I care for nothing else. I shall go abroad for a couple of years—and when I return, I shall come to you for my wife. Remember.’
“她一定很活泼，眼睛也有黑褐色。”我不关心别的。我要出国几年——当我回来时，我会来找你找我的妻子。记住。'

Emma was in no danger of forgetting. It was a commission to touch every favourite feeling. Would not Harriet be the very creature described? Hazle eyes excepted, two years more might make her all that he wished. He might even have Harriet in his thoughts at the moment; who could say? Referring the education to her seemed to imply it.
艾玛没有忘记的危险。这是一个触及每一种最喜欢的感觉的委托。哈丽特不正是所描述的那个生物吗？除了黑泽尔的眼睛，再过两年也许她就能如他所愿。他此刻甚至可能想到了哈丽特。谁能说呢？向她提起教育似乎就暗示着这一点。

‘Now, ma’am,’ said Jane to her aunt, ‘shall we join Mrs. Elton?’
“现在，女士，”简对她的姨妈说，“我们可以去埃尔顿夫人那里吗？”

‘If you please, my dear. With all my heart. I am quite ready. I was ready to have gone with her, but this will do just as well. We shall soon overtake her. There she is—no, that’s somebody else. That’s one of the ladies in the Irish car party, not at all like her.— Well, I declare—‘
‘如果你愿意的话，亲爱的。一心一意。我已经准备好了。我本来准备和她一起走，但这样也行。我们很快就会追上她的。她在那里——不，那是别人。那是爱尔兰汽车派对上的一位女士，一点也不像她。——好吧，我声明——”

They walked off, followed in half a minute by Mr. Knightley. Mr. Weston, his son, Emma, and Harriet, only remained; and the young man’s spirits now rose to a pitch almost unpleasant. Even Emma grew tired at last of flattery and merriment, and wished herself rather walking quietly about with any of the others, or sitting almost alone, and quite unattended to, in tranquil observation of the beautiful views beneath her. The appearance of the servants looking out for them to give notice of the carriages was a joyful sight; and even the bustle of collecting and preparing to depart, and the solicitude of Mrs. Elton to have her carriage first, were gladly endured, in the prospect of the quiet drive home which was to close the very questionable enjoyments of this day of pleasure. Such another scheme, composed of so many ill-assorted people, she hoped never to be betrayed into again.
他们走开了，半分钟后奈特利先生也跟着走了。只剩下韦斯顿先生、他的儿子艾玛和哈丽特。年轻人的情绪现在上升到了几乎令人不快的程度。就连爱玛也终于厌倦了奉承和欢乐，她宁愿自己和其他人一起安静地走来走去，或者几乎独自一人坐着，无人看管，静静地观察脚下的美丽景色。仆人们张望着他们注意马车，这是一幅令人愉快的景象。甚至连集合和准备出发的忙碌，以及埃尔顿夫人对先有马车的关心，我们也很乐意忍受，因为期待着安静地开车回家，结束这一天的愉快的享受。这又是一个由这么多不相干的人组成的阴谋，她希望再也不会被背叛。

While waiting for the carriage, she found Mr. Knightley by her side. He looked around, as if to see that no one were near, and then said,
在等马车的时候，她发现奈特利先生就在她身边。他环顾四周，似乎没有人在附近，然后说道：

‘Emma, I must once more speak to you as I have been used to do: a privilege rather endured than allowed, perhaps, but I must still use it. I cannot see you acting wrong, without a remonstrance. How could you be so unfeeling to Miss Bates? How could you be so insolent in your wit to a woman of her character, age, and situation?— Emma, I had not thought it possible.’
“艾玛，我必须再次像以前那样对你说话：也许这是一种特权，而不是被允许，但我仍然必须使用它。我不能看到你做错事而不提出抗议。你怎么能对贝茨小姐这么无情呢？你怎么能对一个像她这样的性格、年龄和处境的女人如此无礼？——艾玛，我没想到会这样。

Emma recollected, blushed, was sorry, but tried to laugh it off.
艾玛回忆起来，脸红了，很抱歉，但试图一笑置之。

‘Nay, how could I help saying what I did?—Nobody could have helped it. It was not so very bad. I dare say she did not understand me.’
“不，我怎么能不说出我所做的事呢？——没有人能帮助它。情况并没有那么糟糕。我敢说她不明白我的意思。

‘I assure you she did. She felt your full meaning. She has talked of it since. I wish you could have heard how she talked of it— with what candour and generosity. I wish you could have heard her honouring your forbearance, in being able to pay her such attentions, as she was for ever receiving from yourself and your father, when her society must be so irksome.’
“我向你保证她做到了。她感受到了你的全部意义。从那以后她就一直谈起这件事。我希望你能听到她是如何谈论这件事的——带着多么坦率和慷慨。我希望你能听到她对你的忍耐表示敬意，因为你能够对她给予如此多的关注，就像她永远从你和你父亲那里得到的那样，而她的社会一定是如此令人厌烦。

‘Oh!’ cried Emma, ‘I know there is not a better creature in the world: but you must allow, that what is good and what is ridiculous are most unfortunately blended in her.’
“哦！”艾玛喊道，“我知道世界上没有比这更好的生物了：但你必须承认，最不幸的是，她身上融合了善良和荒唐的东西。”

‘They are blended,’ said he, ‘I acknowledge; and, were she prosperous, I could allow much for the occasional prevalence of the ridiculous over the good. Were she a woman of fortune, I would leave every harmless absurdity to take its chance, I would not quarrel with you for any liberties of manner. Were she your equal in situation— but, Emma, consider how far this is from being the case. She is poor; she has sunk from the comforts she was born to; and, if she live to old age, must probably sink more. Her situation should secure your compassion. It was badly done, indeed! You, whom she had known from an infant, whom she had seen grow up from a period when her notice was an honour, to have you now, in thoughtless spirits, and the pride of the moment, laugh at her, humble her—and before her niece, too—and before others, many of whom (certainly some,) would be entirely guided by your treatment of her.—This is not pleasant to you, Emma—and it is very far from pleasant to me; but I must, I will,—I will tell you truths while I can; satisfied with proving myself your friend by very faithful counsel, and trusting that you will some time or other do me greater justice than you can do now.’
“他们是混合的，”他说，“我承认；而且，如果她富裕的话，我可以容忍偶尔出现的荒唐事比好事多。如果她是一个有钱的女人，我会放弃一切无害的荒唐事去冒险，我不会为了任何举止的自由而与你争吵。如果她的处境与你平等的话——但是，艾玛，想想这与实际情况相去甚远。她很穷；她已经从与生俱来的舒适中沉沦了；而且，如果她活到老年，可能会陷得更深。她的处境应该引起你的同情。确实做得很糟糕！你，她从婴儿时期就认识了你，从她的关注是一种荣幸的时期开始，她就认识了你，而现在却有你，带着轻率的精神和一时的骄傲，嘲笑她，羞辱她——在她的侄女面前——以及在其他人面前，他们中的许多人（当然是一些人）会完全受到你对待她的方式的影响。——这让你不高兴，艾玛——而且对我来说也非常不愉快；但我必须，我会——我会尽我所能告诉你真相；我满足于通过非常忠实的建议来证明自己是你的朋友，并相信你有一天会比现在更公正地对待我。

While they talked, they were advancing towards the carriage; it was ready; and, before she could speak again, he had handed her in. He had misinterpreted the feelings which had kept her face averted, and her tongue motionless. They were combined only of anger against herself, mortification, and deep concern. She had not been able to speak; and, on entering the carriage, sunk back for a moment overcome—then reproaching herself for having taken no leave, making no acknowledgment, parting in apparent sullenness, she looked out with voice and hand eager to shew a difference; but it was just too late. He had turned away, and the horses were in motion. She continued to look back, but in vain; and soon, with what appeared unusual speed, they were half way down the hill, and every thing left far behind. She was vexed beyond what could have been expressed—almost beyond what she could conceal. Never had she felt so agitated, mortified, grieved, at any circumstance in her life. She was most forcibly struck. The truth of this representation there was no denying. She felt it at her heart. How could she have been so brutal, so cruel to Miss Bates! How could she have exposed herself to such ill opinion in any one she valued! And how suffer him to leave her without saying one word of gratitude, of concurrence, of common kindness!
他们一边说话，一边向马车走去。已经准备好了；她还没来得及说话，他就把她递了进去。他误解了她的情绪，正是这种情绪让她的脸别开，舌头一动不动。这些情绪中只有对自己的愤怒、羞辱和深切的忧虑。她无法说话；进入马车后，她心情沮丧了一会儿——然后责备自己没有离开，没有打招呼，在明显的阴沉中离开，她用声音和手向外张望，渴望表现出不同；但已经太晚了。他转过身去，马匹已经开始动了。她继续回头看，但徒劳无功。很快，他们以一种异常的速度下了山的一半，一切都被抛在了身后。她的烦恼难以言表，几乎无法掩饰。她从来没有在任何情况下感到如此激动、羞愧、悲伤。她受到了最强烈的打击。这种表述的真实性是无可否认的。她心里感觉到了。她怎么可以对贝茨小姐如此残忍、如此残忍！她怎么可能让自己所珍视的人受到如此恶劣的评价！又怎能容忍他离开她而没有说一句感谢的话、一句同意的话、一句普遍的善意的话！

Time did not compose her. As she reflected more, she seemed but to feel it more. She never had been so depressed. Happily it was not necessary to speak. There was only Harriet, who seemed not in spirits herself, fagged, and very willing to be silent; and Emma felt the tears running down her cheeks almost all the way home, without being at any trouble to check them, extraordinary as they were.
时间并没有让她平静下来。当她思考得越多，她似乎就越能感受到这一点。她从来没有这么沮丧过。幸运的是，没有必要说话。只有哈丽特一个人，她自己似乎也没有精神，疲惫不堪，非常愿意保持沉默。艾玛在回家的路上几乎感觉到泪水顺着脸颊流下来，尽管泪水非同寻常，但她却没有费力去阻止它们。

Chapter VIII
第八章

The wretchedness of a scheme to Box Hill was in Emma’s thoughts all the evening. How it might be considered by the rest of the party, she could not tell. They, in their different homes, and their different ways, might be looking back on it with pleasure; but in her view it was a morning more completely misspent, more totally bare of rational satisfaction at the time, and more to be abhorred in recollection, than any she had ever passed. A whole evening of back-gammon with her father, was felicity to it. There, indeed, lay real pleasure, for there she was giving up the sweetest hours of the twenty-four to his comfort; and feeling that, unmerited as might be the degree of his fond affection and confiding esteem, she could not, in her general conduct, be open to any severe reproach. As a daughter, she hoped she was not without a heart. She hoped no one could have said to her, ‘How could you be so unfeeling to your father?— I must, I will tell you truths while I can.’ Miss Bates should never again—no, never! If attention, in future, could do away the past, she might hope to be forgiven. She had been often remiss, her conscience told her so; remiss, perhaps, more in thought than fact; scornful, ungracious. But it should be so no more. In the warmth of true contrition, she would call upon her the very next morning, and it should be the beginning, on her side, of a regular, equal, kindly intercourse.
艾玛整个晚上都在想前往博士山的计划的可悲。她不知道其他人会如何考虑。他们，在不同的家中，以不同的方式，回想起来可能会很高兴；但在她看来，这是一个比她经历过的任何早晨都更浪费的早晨，当时更缺乏理性的满足感，回想起来也更令人憎恶。和她父亲玩了一整晚的西洋双陆棋，真是太幸福了。确实，那里有真正的快乐，因为她在那里放弃了二十四小时中最甜蜜的时光，以求他的安慰。她觉得，尽管他的喜爱和信任程度可能是不值得的，但她的一般行为不能受到任何严厉的责备。作为女儿，她希望自己不是没有心。她希望没有人能对她说：“你怎么能对你的父亲如此无情？——我必须，我会尽可能告诉你真相。”贝茨小姐永远不应该再这样——不，永远不！如果未来的关注可以消除过去，她可能希望得到原谅。她的良心告诉她，她常常粗心大意。或许，思想上的疏忽多于事实上的疏忽；轻蔑的，无礼的。但现在应该不再这样了。怀着真正悔罪的热情，她会在第二天早上拜访她，这对她来说应该是定期、平等、友善交往的开始。

She was just as determined when the morrow came, and went early, that nothing might prevent her. It was not unlikely, she thought, that she might see Mr. Knightley in her way; or, perhaps, he might come in while she were paying her visit. She had no objection. She would not be ashamed of the appearance of the penitence, so justly and truly hers. Her eyes were towards Donwell as she walked, but she saw him not.
当明天到来时，她也同样下定决心，而且去得很早，没有什么可以阻止她。她想，奈特利先生很有可能会妨碍她。或者，也许他可能会在她来访时进来。她没有异议。她不会因为忏悔的表现而感到羞耻，因为她的忏悔是如此公正和真实。她边走边看着唐威尔，但没有看到他。

‘The ladies were all at home.’ She had never rejoiced at the sound before, nor ever before entered the passage, nor walked up the stairs, with any wish of giving pleasure, but in conferring obligation, or of deriving it, except in subsequent ridicule.
“女士们都在家。”她以前从来没有因为这个声音而感到高兴，也从来没有进入过道，也没有走上楼梯，有过任何给予快乐的愿望，但在赋予义务或衍生义务，除了在随后的嘲笑。

There was a bustle on her approach; a good deal of moving and talking. She heard Miss Bates’s voice, something was to be done in a hurry; the maid looked frightened and awkward; hoped she would be pleased to wait a moment, and then ushered her in too soon. The aunt and niece seemed both escaping into the adjoining room. Jane she had a distinct glimpse of, looking extremely ill; and, before the door had shut them out, she heard Miss Bates saying, ‘Well, my dear, I shall say you are laid down upon the bed, and I am sure you are ill enough.’
她走近时一片喧闹。大量的移动和说话。她听到贝茨小姐的声音，有事情要赶紧做；女仆看上去既害怕又尴尬。希望她能高兴地等一会儿，然后就太早地把她引入了。姑妈和侄女似乎都逃进了隔壁的房间。她清楚地瞥见了简，她看上去病得很重。门把他们关在门外之前，她听到贝茨小姐说：“好吧，亲爱的，我想说你已经躺在床上了，我相信你已经病得很重了。”

Poor old Mrs. Bates, civil and humble as usual, looked as if she did not quite understand what was going on.
可怜的贝茨老太太一如既往地彬彬有礼、谦逊，看上去似乎不太明白发生了什么事。

‘I am afraid Jane is not very well,’ said she, ‘but I do not know; they tell me she is well. I dare say my daughter will be here presently, Miss Woodhouse. I hope you find a chair. I wish Hetty had not gone. I am very little able—Have you a chair, ma’am? Do you sit where you like? I am sure she will be here presently.’
“恐怕简身体不太好，”她说，“但我不知道；他们告诉我她很好。我敢说我女儿马上就到了，伍德豪斯小姐。我希望你能找到一把椅子。我希望海蒂没有走。我能力有限——女士，您有椅子吗？你坐在你喜欢的地方吗？我确信她很快就会来这里。

Emma seriously hoped she would. She had a moment’s fear of Miss Bates keeping away from her. But Miss Bates soon came—‘Very happy and obliged’—but Emma’s conscience told her that there was not the same cheerful volubility as before—less ease of look and manner. A very friendly inquiry after Miss Fairfax, she hoped, might lead the way to a return of old feelings. The touch seemed immediate.
艾玛真心希望她能这么做。她有一瞬间害怕贝茨小姐远离她。但贝茨小姐很快就来了——“非常高兴，也很感激”——但艾玛的良心告诉她，不再像以前那样愉快地滔滔不绝——神情和举止也不那么轻松自在了。她希望，在费尔法克斯小姐之后进行的一次非常友好的询问，可能会带来旧日感情的回归。触摸似乎是立即的。

‘Ah! Miss Woodhouse, how kind you are!—I suppose you have heard— and are come to give us joy. This does not seem much like joy, indeed, in me—(twinkling away a tear or two)—but it will be very trying for us to part with her, after having had her so long, and she has a dreadful headach just now, writing all the morning:— such long letters, you know, to be written to Colonel Campbell, and Mrs. Dixon. ‘My dear,’ said I, ‘you will blind yourself’— for tears were in her eyes perpetually. One cannot wonder, one cannot wonder. It is a great change; and though she is amazingly fortunate—such a situation, I suppose, as no young woman before ever met with on first going out—do not think us ungrateful, Miss Woodhouse, for such surprising good fortune—(again dispersing her tears)—but, poor dear soul! if you were to see what a headache she has. When one is in great pain, you know one cannot feel any blessing quite as it may deserve. She is as low as possible. To look at her, nobody would think how delighted and happy she is to have secured such a situation. You will excuse her not coming to you—she is not able—she is gone into her own room— I want her to lie down upon the bed. ‘My dear,’ said I, ‘I shall say you are laid down upon the bed:’ but, however, she is not; she is walking about the room. But, now that she has written her letters, she says she shall soon be well. She will be extremely sorry to miss seeing you, Miss Woodhouse, but your kindness will excuse her. You were kept waiting at the door—I was quite ashamed— but somehow there was a little bustle—for it so happened that we had not heard the knock, and till you were on the stairs, we did not know any body was coming. ‘It is only Mrs. Cole,’ said I, ‘depend upon it. Nobody else would come so early.’ ‘Well,’ said she, ‘it must be borne some time or other, and it may as well be now.’ But then Patty came in, and said it was you. ‘Oh!’ said I, ‘it is Miss Woodhouse: I am sure you will like to see her.’— ‘I can see nobody,’ said she; and up she got, and would go away; and that was what made us keep you waiting—and extremely sorry and ashamed we were. ‘If you must go, my dear,’ said I, ‘you must, and I will say you are laid down upon the bed.’’
'啊！伍德豪斯小姐，你真好！——我想你已经听到了——而且是来给我们带来欢乐的。事实上，对我来说，这看起来不太像快乐——（眨着一两滴眼泪）——但我们在拥有她这么久之后与她分开将是非常困难的，而且她现在头痛得厉害。 ，整个早上都在写：——这么长的信，你知道，是写给坎贝尔上校和迪克森夫人的。 “亲爱的，”我说，“你会弄瞎自己的”——因为她的眼里永远充满泪水。一个人无法惊奇，一个人无法惊奇。这是一个巨大的改变；虽然她非常幸运——我想，从来没有一个年轻女子在第一次出门时遇到过这样的情况——伍德豪斯小姐，不要以为我们忘恩负义，因为我们有如此令人惊讶的好运气——（再次流泪）——但是，可怜的亲爱的灵魂！如果你看看她有多头痛。当一个人处于巨大痛苦之中时，你知道一个人无法感受到任何应得的祝福。她是尽可能低的。看着她，谁也不会想到她能获得这样的地位是多么的欣喜和幸福。你会原谅她不来找你——她不能——她已经回自己的房间了——我想让她躺在床上。 “亲爱的，”我说，“我想说你已经躺在床上了。”然而，她并没有躺在床上。她在房间里走来走去。但是，现在她已经写了信，她说她很快就会康复。伍德豪斯小姐，她会因错过见到您而感到非常遗憾，但您的好意会原谅她的。你一直在门口等着——我很羞愧——但不知怎的，有一点忙碌——因为碰巧我们没有听到敲门声，直到你上楼梯时，我们才知道有人过来。 “只有科尔夫人，”我说，“靠吧。”没有人会来得这么早。” “好吧，”她说，“总有一天要承受的，最好是现在。”但是帕蒂进来了，说是你。 “哦！”我说，“我是伍德豪斯小姐：我相信你会喜欢见她的。”——“我看不见任何人，”她说；她站了起来，准备走开；这就是让您久等的原因——我们感到非常抱歉和羞愧。 “如果你必须走，亲爱的，”我说，“你就必须走，我会说你已经躺在床上了。”’’

Emma was most sincerely interested. Her heart had been long growing kinder towards Jane; and this picture of her present sufferings acted as a cure of every former ungenerous suspicion, and left her nothing but pity; and the remembrance of the less just and less gentle sensations of the past, obliged her to admit that Jane might very naturally resolve on seeing Mrs. Cole or any other steady friend, when she might not bear to see herself. She spoke as she felt, with earnest regret and solicitude—sincerely wishing that the circumstances which she collected from Miss Bates to be now actually determined on, might be as much for Miss Fairfax’s advantage and comfort as possible. ‘It must be a severe trial to them all. She had understood it was to be delayed till Colonel Campbell’s return.’
艾玛非常感兴趣。长期以来，她的心对简越来越友善。她现在所受的痛苦的这幅景象消除了她以前所有的不宽容的怀疑，只给她留下了怜悯。回忆起过去不那么公正和不那么温柔的感觉，她不得不承认，简可能会很自然地决定去见科尔夫人或任何其他稳定的朋友，而她可能不忍心见到自己。她说出了自己的感受，带着诚挚的遗憾和关切——真诚地希望她从贝茨小姐那里收集到的情况现在能够真正确定，尽可能有利于费尔法克斯小姐的利益和舒适。 “这对他们所有人来说一定是一次严峻的考验。她知道这件事要推迟到坎贝尔上校回来之后。

‘So very kind! ‘ replied Miss Bates. ‘But you are always kind.’
‘真是太好了！ ”贝茨小姐回答道。 “但你总是很友善。”

There was no bearing such an ‘always;’ and to break through her dreadful gratitude, Emma made the direct inquiry of—
没有这样的“永远”；为了摆脱她可怕的感激之情，艾玛直接询问了——

‘Where—may I ask?—is Miss Fairfax going?’
“请问——费尔法克斯小姐要去哪里？”

‘To a Mrs. Smallridge—charming woman—most superior—to have the charge of her three little girls—delightful children. Impossible that any situation could be more replete with comfort; if we except, perhaps, Mrs. Suckling’s own family, and Mrs. Bragge’s; but Mrs. Smallridge is intimate with both, and in the very same neighbourhood:—lives only four miles from Maple Grove. Jane will be only four miles from Maple Grove.’
“斯莫里奇夫人——迷人的女人——最优越的人——负责照顾她的三个小女儿——可爱的孩子。不可能有任何情况比这更让人感到舒适；如果我们也许排除萨克林夫人自己的家人和布拉格夫人的家人；但斯莫里奇太太与这两个人都很亲密，而且住在同一个街区：——住在距离枫树林只有四英里的地方。简距离枫树林只有四英里。

‘Mrs. Elton, I suppose, has been the person to whom Miss Fairfax owes—‘
'太太。我想，费尔法克斯小姐欠埃尔顿一个人——”

‘Yes, our good Mrs. Elton. The most indefatigable, true friend. She would not take a denial. She would not let Jane say, ‘No;’ for when Jane first heard of it, (it was the day before yesterday, the very morning we were at Donwell,) when Jane first heard of it, she was quite decided against accepting the offer, and for the reasons you mention; exactly as you say, she had made up her mind to close with nothing till Colonel Campbell’s return, and nothing should induce her to enter into any engagement at present—and so she told Mrs. Elton over and over again—and I am sure I had no more idea that she would change her mind!—but that good Mrs. Elton, whose judgment never fails her, saw farther than I did. It is not every body that would have stood out in such a kind way as she did, and refuse to take Jane’s answer; but she positively declared she would not write any such denial yesterday, as Jane wished her; she would wait—and, sure enough, yesterday evening it was all settled that Jane should go. Quite a surprize to me! I had not the least idea!—Jane took Mrs. Elton aside, and told her at once, that upon thinking over the advantages of Mrs. Smallridge’s situation, she had come to the resolution of accepting it.—I did not know a word of it till it was all settled.’
“是的，我们善良的埃尔顿夫人。最不知疲倦、最真诚的朋友。她不会接受否认。她不会让简说“不”，因为当简第一次听说这件事时（那是前天，我们在唐韦尔的那天早上），当简第一次听说这件事时，她坚决不接受这个提议。提供，以及您提到的原因；正如你所说，她已经决定在坎贝尔上校回来之前什么都不做，目前没有任何事情可以促使她参与任何订婚——所以她一遍又一遍地告诉埃尔顿夫人——我相信我更不知道她会改变主意！——但是善良的埃尔顿夫人，她的判断力从来没有让她失望过，她比我看得更远。并不是每个人都会像她那样善意地站出来，拒绝接受简的回答。但她昨天明确表示不会写任何这样的否认信，正如简所希望的那样。她会等待——果然，昨天晚上简就该走了。真是让我惊喜啊！我一点也不知道！——简把埃尔顿夫人拉到一边，立即告诉她，在考虑了斯莫里奇夫人处境的优势后，她决定接受它。——我一个字也不认识。直到一切都解决为止。

‘You spent the evening with Mrs. Elton?’
“你和埃尔顿夫人一起度过了这个晚上吗？”

‘Yes, all of us; Mrs. Elton would have us come. It was settled so, upon the hill, while we were walking about with Mr. Knightley. ‘You must all spend your evening with us,’ said she—‘I positively must have you all come.’’
“是的，我们所有人；埃尔顿夫人会让我们来的。当我们和奈特利先生一起在山上散步时，事情就这样解决了。 “你们必须和我们一起度过这个夜晚，”她说——“我绝对必须让你们都来。”

‘Mr. Knightley was there too, was he?’
'先生。奈特利也在场，是吗？

‘No, not Mr. Knightley; he declined it from the first; and though I thought he would come, because Mrs. Elton declared she would not let him off, he did not;—but my mother, and Jane, and I, were all there, and a very agreeable evening we had. Such kind friends, you know, Miss Woodhouse, one must always find agreeable, though every body seemed rather fagged after the morning’s party. Even pleasure, you know, is fatiguing—and I cannot say that any of them seemed very much to have enjoyed it. However, I shall always think it a very pleasant party, and feel extremely obliged to the kind friends who included me in it.’
“不，不是奈特利先生，而是奈特利先生。”他从一开始就拒绝了。虽然我以为他会来，因为埃尔顿夫人宣称她不会放过他，但他没有；——但是我的母亲、简和我都在那里，我们度过了一个非常愉快的夜晚。伍德豪斯小姐，你知道，这样善良的朋友总是令人愉快的，尽管在早上的聚会后每个人都显得疲惫不堪。你知道，即使是快乐也会让人疲劳——我不能说他们中的任何一个人似乎都非常享受它。然而，我始终认为这是一个非常愉快的聚会，并且非常感谢包括我在内的好心朋友。

‘Miss Fairfax, I suppose, though you were not aware of it, had been making up her mind the whole day?’
“我想，费尔法克斯小姐，虽然你没有意识到，但她一整天都在下定决心？”

‘I dare say she had.’
“我敢说她有。”

‘Whenever the time may come, it must be unwelcome to her and all her friends—but I hope her engagement will have every alleviation that is possible—I mean, as to the character and manners of the family.’
“无论何时，这对她和她所有的朋友来说都一定是不受欢迎的——但我希望她的订婚能够尽可能地缓解——我的意思是，对于这个家庭的性格和举止。”

‘Thank you, dear Miss Woodhouse. Yes, indeed, there is every thing in the world that can make her happy in it. Except the Sucklings and Bragges, there is not such another nursery establishment, so liberal and elegant, in all Mrs. Elton’s acquaintance. Mrs. Smallridge, a most delightful woman!—A style of living almost equal to Maple Grove—and as to the children, except the little Sucklings and little Bragges, there are not such elegant sweet children anywhere. Jane will be treated with such regard and kindness!— It will be nothing but pleasure, a life of pleasure.—And her salary!— I really cannot venture to name her salary to you, Miss Woodhouse. Even you, used as you are to great sums, would hardly believe that so much could be given to a young person like Jane.’
“谢谢你，亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐。是的，确实，世界上有一切能让她开心的事情在其中。除了萨克林斯和布拉格斯之外，在埃尔顿夫人所认识的人中，没有第二家如此自由和优雅的托儿所了。斯莫里奇太太，一个最令人愉快的女人！——一种几乎与枫树林同等的生活方式——至于孩子们，除了小萨克林和小布拉格之外，任何地方都没有如此优雅可爱的孩子。简将会受到如此的尊重和友善的对待！——这将是快乐，快乐的生活。——还有她的薪水！——我真的不敢向你说出她的薪水，伍德豪斯小姐。即使是你，习惯了巨额金钱，也很难相信可以给像简这样的年轻人这么多钱。

‘Ah! madam,’ cried Emma, ‘if other children are at all like what I remember to have been myself, I should think five times the amount of what I have ever yet heard named as a salary on such occasions, dearly earned.’
'啊！女士，”艾玛喊道，“如果其他孩子都像我记忆中的自己一样，我想的金额应该是我所听到的工资的五倍，在这种情况下，工资是值得的。”

‘You are so noble in your ideas!’
“你的想法真高尚！”

‘And when is Miss Fairfax to leave you?’
“费尔法克斯小姐什么时候离开你？”

‘Very soon, very soon, indeed; that’s the worst of it. Within a fortnight. Mrs. Smallridge is in a great hurry. My poor mother does not know how to bear it. So then, I try to put it out of her thoughts, and say, Come ma’am, do not let us think about it any more.’
“很快，很快，确实如此；这是最糟糕的。两周之内。斯莫里奇太太非常着急。我可怜的母亲不知道如何忍受。于是，我试着把这件事从她的脑海中抹去，并对她说：“来吧，女士，不要让我们再想这件事了。”

‘Her friends must all be sorry to lose her; and will not Colonel and Mrs. Campbell be sorry to find that she has engaged herself before their return?’
“她的朋友们一定都为失去她而感到遗憾；坎贝尔上校和夫人在他们回来之前就已经订婚了，难道不会感到遗憾吗？

‘Yes; Jane says she is sure they will; but yet, this is such a situation as she cannot feel herself justified in declining. I was so astonished when she first told me what she had been saying to Mrs. Elton, and when Mrs. Elton at the same moment came congratulating me upon it! It was before tea—stay—no, it could not be before tea, because we were just going to cards—and yet it was before tea, because I remember thinking—Oh! no, now I recollect, now I have it; something happened before tea, but not that. Mr. Elton was called out of the room before tea, old John Abdy’s son wanted to speak with him. Poor old John, I have a great regard for him; he was clerk to my poor father twenty-seven years; and now, poor old man, he is bed-ridden, and very poorly with the rheumatic gout in his joints— I must go and see him to-day; and so will Jane, I am sure, if she gets out at all. And poor John’s son came to talk to Mr. Elton about relief from the parish; he is very well to do himself, you know, being head man at the Crown, ostler, and every thing of that sort, but still he cannot keep his father without some help; and so, when Mr. Elton came back, he told us what John ostler had been telling him, and then it came out about the chaise having been sent to Randalls to take Mr. Frank Churchill to Richmond. That was what happened before tea. It was after tea that Jane spoke to Mrs. Elton.’
'是的;简说她确信他们会的。但在这种情况下，她觉得自己没有理由拒绝。当她第一次告诉我她对埃尔顿夫人说的话时，我感到非常惊讶，而埃尔顿夫人同时也向我表示祝贺！那是在喝茶之前——等等——不，不可能是在喝茶之前，因为我们只是去打牌——但那是在喝茶之前，因为我记得当时在想——哦！不，现在我想起来了，现在我拥有了；喝茶之前发生了一些事情，但不是那件事。喝茶前，埃尔顿先生被叫出了房间，老约翰·阿卜迪的儿子想和他说话。可怜的老约翰，我非常尊敬他；他为我可怜的父亲当了二十七年的职员。现在，可怜的老人，他卧床不起，而且关节处患有风湿性痛风，病情非常严重——我今天必须去看他；因为他的身体很虚弱。我相信，如果简真的能出去的话，她也会这么做。可怜的约翰的儿子来找埃尔顿先生谈论教区的救济问题。你知道，他自己干得很好，你知道，担任王室的首席人、马夫，以及诸如此类的事情，但如果没有一些帮助，他仍然无法留住他的父亲。因此，当埃尔顿先生回来​​时，他告诉了我们约翰·奥斯特勒告诉他的事情，然后就得知马车已被送往兰德尔斯，以将弗兰克·丘吉尔先生带到里士满。这是喝茶之前发生的事情。简是在喝完茶后才和埃尔顿夫人说话的。

Miss Bates would hardly give Emma time to say how perfectly new this circumstance was to her; but as without supposing it possible that she could be ignorant of any of the particulars of Mr. Frank Churchill’s going, she proceeded to give them all, it was of no consequence.
贝茨小姐几乎不给艾玛时间说这种情况对她来说是多么新鲜。但她并没有想到她可能对弗兰克·丘吉尔先生离开的任何细节一无所知，所以她把所有的细节都说了出来，这并不重要。

What Mr. Elton had learned from the ostler on the subject, being the accumulation of the ostler’s own knowledge, and the knowledge of the servants at Randalls, was, that a messenger had come over from Richmond soon after the return of the party from Box Hill— which messenger, however, had been no more than was expected; and that Mr. Churchill had sent his nephew a few lines, containing, upon the whole, a tolerable account of Mrs. Churchill, and only wishing him not to delay coming back beyond the next morning early; but that Mr. Frank Churchill having resolved to go home directly, without waiting at all, and his horse seeming to have got a cold, Tom had been sent off immediately for the Crown chaise, and the ostler had stood out and seen it pass by, the boy going a good pace, and driving very steady.
埃尔顿先生从马夫的身上得知，根据马夫自己的知识和兰德尔斯仆人的知识，在一行人从博克斯回来后不久，就有一个信使从里士满过来了。希尔——然而，这位使者并没有超出预期。丘吉尔先生给他的侄子发了几行信，总体来说，对丘吉尔夫人的描述还算可以，只是希望他不要拖延到第二天一早才回来；但弗兰克·丘吉尔先生决定直接回家，根本不等，而且他的马似乎感冒了，汤姆立即被送去皇家马车，马夫站了出来，看着它经过，男孩的步伐很好，开车也很稳。

There was nothing in all this either to astonish or interest, and it caught Emma’s attention only as it united with the subject which already engaged her mind. The contrast between Mrs. Churchill’s importance in the world, and Jane Fairfax’s, struck her; one was every thing, the other nothing—and she sat musing on the difference of woman’s destiny, and quite unconscious on what her eyes were fixed, till roused by Miss Bates’s saying,
这一切并没有什么令人惊讶或感兴趣的，只有当它与她已经关注的主题结合在一起时，它才引起了艾玛的注意。丘吉尔夫人与简·费尔法克斯在世界上的重要性之间的对比令她震惊。一个是一切，另一个什么都不是——她坐着沉思着女人命运的差异，完全没有意识到自己的眼睛注视着什么，直到贝茨小姐的一句话唤醒了她：

‘Aye, I see what you are thinking of, the pianoforte. What is to become of that?—Very true. Poor dear Jane was talking of it just now.— ‘You must go,’ said she. ‘You and I must part. You will have no business here.—Let it stay, however,’ said she; ‘give it houseroom till Colonel Campbell comes back. I shall talk about it to him; he will settle for me; he will help me out of all my difficulties.’— And to this day, I do believe, she knows not whether it was his present or his daughter’s.’
“是的，我明白你在想什么，钢琴。”那会变成什么呢？——非常正确。可怜的亲爱的简刚才正在谈论这件事。——“你必须走，”她说。 ‘你和我必须分开。你在这里没有什么事。——不过，让它留下来吧，”她说； “给它一些空间，直到坎贝尔上校回来。”我要跟他谈谈；他会满足于我；他会帮助我摆脱所有困难。”——直到今天，我相信，她仍然不知道这是他的礼物还是他女儿的礼物。

Now Emma was obliged to think of the pianoforte; and the remembrance of all her former fanciful and unfair conjectures was so little pleasing, that she soon allowed herself to believe her visit had been long enough; and, with a repetition of every thing that she could venture to say of the good wishes which she really felt, took leave.
现在艾玛不得不想起钢琴了。回想起她以前所有的幻想和不公平的猜测，她一点也不高兴，以至于她很快就让自己相信她的访问已经足够长了。然后，她重复了所有她能大胆说出的关于她真正感受到的良好祝愿的话，然后就告辞了。

Chapter IX
第九章

Emma’s pensive meditations, as she walked home, were not interrupted; but on entering the parlour, she found those who must rouse her. Mr. Knightley and Harriet had arrived during her absence, and were sitting with her father.—Mr. Knightley immediately got up, and in a manner decidedly graver than usual, said,
艾玛走回家的路上，沉思的思绪没有被打断。但一进客厅，她就发现有人必须叫醒她。奈特利先生和哈丽特在她不在期间到达，和她父亲坐在一起。奈特莉立刻站起来，用比平时更加​​严肃的态度说道：

‘I would not go away without seeing you, but I have no time to spare, and therefore must now be gone directly. I am going to London, to spend a few days with John and Isabella. Have you any thing to send or say, besides the ‘love,’ which nobody carries?’
‘我不会不见到你就走，但我没有时间，所以现在必须直接离开。我要去伦敦，与约翰和伊莎贝拉一起度过几天。除了没有人携带的“爱”之外，你还有什么要传达或说的话吗？

‘Nothing at all. But is not this a sudden scheme?’
‘什么也没有。但这不是一个突然的计划吗？

‘Yes—rather—I have been thinking of it some little time.’
“是的——确切地说——我已经想了一会儿了。”

Emma was sure he had not forgiven her; he looked unlike himself. Time, however, she thought, would tell him that they ought to be friends again. While he stood, as if meaning to go, but not going— her father began his inquiries.
艾玛确信他还没有原谅她。他看起来不像他自己。然而，她想，时间会告诉他，他们应该再次成为朋友。他站着，似乎想走，但又没有走——她父亲开始询问。

‘Well, my dear, and did you get there safely?—And how did you find my worthy old friend and her daughter?—I dare say they must have been very much obliged to you for coming. Dear Emma has been to call on Mrs. and Miss Bates, Mr. Knightley, as I told you before. She is always so attentive to them!’
“好吧，亲爱的，你安全到达那里了吗？——你是怎么找到我可敬的老朋友和她的女儿的？——我敢说他们一定非常感谢你的到来。正如我之前告诉过你的，亲爱的艾玛去拜访了贝茨夫人和贝茨小姐，奈特利先生。她总是对他们那么关心！

Emma’s colour was heightened by this unjust praise; and with a smile, and shake of the head, which spoke much, she looked at Mr. Knightley.— It seemed as if there were an instantaneous impression in her favour, as if his eyes received the truth from her’s, and all that had passed of good in her feelings were at once caught and honoured.— He looked at her with a glow of regard. She was warmly gratified— and in another moment still more so, by a little movement of more than common friendliness on his part.—He took her hand;— whether she had not herself made the first motion, she could not say— she might, perhaps, have rather offered it—but he took her hand, pressed it, and certainly was on the point of carrying it to his lips— when, from some fancy or other, he suddenly let it go.—Why he should feel such a scruple, why he should change his mind when it was all but done, she could not perceive.—He would have judged better, she thought, if he had not stopped.—The intention, however, was indubitable; and whether it was that his manners had in general so little gallantry, or however else it happened, but she thought nothing became him more.— It was with him, of so simple, yet so dignified a nature.— She could not but recall the attempt with great satisfaction. It spoke such perfect amity.—He left them immediately afterwards— gone in a moment. He always moved with the alertness of a mind which could neither be undecided nor dilatory, but now he seemed more sudden than usual in his disappearance.
这种不公正的赞扬使艾玛的脸色更加难看。她微笑着，摇摇头，看着奈特利先生，这说明了很多事情。——似乎立刻就有了对她有利的印象，仿佛他的眼睛从她的眼睛里接收到了真相，而所有的一切都似乎对她有利。她的感情中的美好瞬间立刻被抓住并受到尊重。——他满怀敬意地看着她。她感到热烈的满足——在另一个时刻，更是如此，因为他表现出了比平常友好的一点动作。——他握住了她的手；——无论她自己没有做出第一个动作，她都不能说——她可能会这样做。或许，他宁愿主动提出——但他握住了她的手，按了按，正要把手放到唇边——这时，出于某种幻想或其他原因，他突然放开了。——为什么他会有这样的感觉她无法理解为什么他会在事情快完成时改变主意。——她想，如果他没有停下来，他会做出更好的判断。——然而，这个意图是不容置疑的；无论是他的举止总体上缺乏殷勤，还是发生了其他事情，但她认为没有什么比他更适合他了。——他的性格如此简单，但又如此庄严。——她不能不回忆起这次尝试非常满意。这句话表达了如此完美的友好。——之后他立即离开了他们——转眼间就消失了。他一向行动敏捷，既不能优柔寡断，也不能拖拖拉拉，但现在他的消失似乎比平时来得突然。

Emma could not regret her having gone to Miss Bates, but she wished she had left her ten minutes earlier;—it would have been a great pleasure to talk over Jane Fairfax’s situation with Mr. Knightley.— Neither would she regret that he should be going to Brunswick Square, for she knew how much his visit would be enjoyed—but it might have happened at a better time—and to have had longer notice of it, would have been pleasanter.—They parted thorough friends, however; she could not be deceived as to the meaning of his countenance, and his unfinished gallantry;—it was all done to assure her that she had fully recovered his good opinion.—He had been sitting with them half an hour, she found. It was a pity that she had not come back earlier!
艾玛不会后悔她去找贝茨小姐，但她希望自己早十分钟离开她；——如果能和奈特利先生谈论简·费尔法克斯的情况，那就太好了。——她也不会后悔他应该去见贝茨小姐。去不伦瑞克广场，因为她知道他的来访会是多么令人愉快——但它可能发生在一个更好的时间——并且能更长时间地注意到它，会更令人愉快。她不可能被他脸上的表情和他未尽的殷勤所欺骗；——这一切都是为了向她保证，她已经完全恢复了他的好感。——她发现，他已经和他们坐了半个小时了。可惜她没有早点回来！

In the hope of diverting her father’s thoughts from the disagreeableness of Mr. Knightley’s going to London; and going so suddenly; and going on horseback, which she knew would be all very bad; Emma communicated her news of Jane Fairfax, and her dependence on the effect was justified; it supplied a very useful check,— interested, without disturbing him. He had long made up his mind to Jane Fairfax’s going out as governess, and could talk of it cheerfully, but Mr. Knightley’s going to London had been an unexpected blow.
希望转移她父亲对奈特利先生去伦敦的不愉快的思绪；走得那么突然；骑马，她知道这会很糟糕。艾玛传达了简·费尔法克斯的消息，她对这种效果的依赖是有道理的；它提供了一个非常有用的检查——感兴趣，但又不打扰他。他早就决定让简·费尔法克斯出去当家庭教师，而且可以愉快地谈论这件事，但奈特利先生去伦敦却是一个意想不到的打击。

‘I am very glad, indeed, my dear, to hear she is to be so comfortably settled. Mrs. Elton is very good-natured and agreeable, and I dare say her acquaintance are just what they ought to be. I hope it is a dry situation, and that her health will be taken good care of. It ought to be a first object, as I am sure poor Miss Taylor’s always was with me. You know, my dear, she is going to be to this new lady what Miss Taylor was to us. And I hope she will be better off in one respect, and not be induced to go away after it has been her home so long.’
“亲爱的，听到她如此舒适地安顿下来，我真的很高兴。埃尔顿夫人脾气很好，很随和，我敢说她的相识是理所应当的。我希望这是一个干燥的情况，并且她的健康会得到很好的照顾。它应该是第一个对象，因为我确信可怜的泰勒小姐总是和我在一起。你知道，亲爱的，她对于这位新女士来说就像泰勒小姐对于我们一样。我希望她在某一方面能过得更好，不要因为这里已经成为她的家这么久而被诱导离开。

The following day brought news from Richmond to throw every thing else into the background. An express arrived at Randalls to announce the death of Mrs. Churchill! Though her nephew had had no particular reason to hasten back on her account, she had not lived above six-and-thirty hours after his return. A sudden seizure of a different nature from any thing foreboded by her general state, had carried her off after a short struggle. The great Mrs. Churchill was no more.
第二天，里士满传来消息，其他事情都抛到了脑后。一封快件抵达兰德尔斯，宣布丘吉尔夫人去世！虽然她的侄子并没有什么特别的理由为了她而赶回来，但她在他回来后并没有活过六三十个小时。经过短暂的挣扎后，她突然癫痫发作，其性质与她一般状况所预示的任何事情都不同。伟大的丘吉尔夫人已经不复存在了。

It was felt as such things must be felt. Every body had a degree of gravity and sorrow; tenderness towards the departed, solicitude for the surviving friends; and, in a reasonable time, curiosity to know where she would be buried. Goldsmith tells us, that when lovely woman stoops to folly, she has nothing to do but to die; and when she stoops to be disagreeable, it is equally to be recommended as a clearer of ill-fame. Mrs. Churchill, after being disliked at least twenty-five years, was now spoken of with compassionate allowances. In one point she was fully justified. She had never been admitted before to be seriously ill. The event acquitted her of all the fancifulness, and all the selfishness of imaginary complaints.
人们感觉到这样的事情必须被感觉到。每个人都有一定程度的严肃和悲伤。对逝去的人的温柔，对幸存的朋友的关怀；在合理的时间内，人们会好奇她将被埋在哪里。戈德史密斯告诉我们，当可爱的女人做出愚蠢的事时，她除了死别无选择；当她表现得令人不快时，同样应该被推荐为清除恶名的人。丘吉尔夫人在至少二十五年来不受欢迎之后，现在人们谈论起来却充满了同情心。在某一点上，她是完全有道理的。她以前从未因患重病入院。这件事使她摆脱了所有的幻想和想象中的抱怨的所有自私。

‘Poor Mrs. Churchill! no doubt she had been suffering a great deal: more than any body had ever supposed—and continual pain would try the temper. It was a sad event—a great shock—with all her faults, what would Mr. Churchill do without her? Mr. Churchill’s loss would be dreadful indeed. Mr. Churchill would never get over it.’— Even Mr. Weston shook his head, and looked solemn, and said, ‘Ah! poor woman, who would have thought it!’ and resolved, that his mourning should be as handsome as possible; and his wife sat sighing and moralising over her broad hems with a commiseration and good sense, true and steady. How it would affect Frank was among the earliest thoughts of both. It was also a very early speculation with Emma. The character of Mrs. Churchill, the grief of her husband—her mind glanced over them both with awe and compassion—and then rested with lightened feelings on how Frank might be affected by the event, how benefited, how freed. She saw in a moment all the possible good. Now, an attachment to Harriet Smith would have nothing to encounter. Mr. Churchill, independent of his wife, was feared by nobody; an easy, guidable man, to be persuaded into any thing by his nephew. All that remained to be wished was, that the nephew should form the attachment, as, with all her goodwill in the cause, Emma could feel no certainty of its being already formed.
“可怜的丘吉尔夫人！毫无疑问，她遭受了很大的痛苦：比任何人想象的都要多——持续的疼痛会考验她的脾气。这是一个悲伤的事件——一个巨大的震惊——尽管她有这么多的缺点，如果没有她，丘吉尔先生会做什么呢？丘吉尔先生的损失确实是可怕的。丘吉尔先生永远无法克服这个问题。”——就连韦斯顿先生也摇了摇头，一脸严肃地说：“啊！可怜的女人，谁会想到呢！”并决定让他的哀悼尽可能漂亮。他的妻子坐在那儿，叹息着，在她宽阔的下摆上说教，带着同情和理智，真实而稳定。这将如何影响弗兰克是两人最早的想法之一。这也是很早就与艾玛的猜测。丘吉尔夫人的性格，她丈夫的悲伤——她的思绪带着敬畏和同情扫过他们俩——然后带着轻松的心情思考弗兰克可能会受到这一事件的影响，如何受益，如何自由。她立刻就看到了所有可能的好处。现在，对哈丽特·史密斯的依恋将不再有任何遭遇。丘吉尔先生独立于他的妻子，没有人害怕他。一个容易被引导的人，任何事情都会被他的侄子说服。剩下的希望就是，侄子应该形成依恋关系，因为尽管爱玛对此充满善意，但她并不确定它是否已经形成。

Harriet behaved extremely well on the occasion, with great self-command. What ever she might feel of brighter hope, she betrayed nothing. Emma was gratified, to observe such a proof in her of strengthened character, and refrained from any allusion that might endanger its maintenance. They spoke, therefore, of Mrs. Churchill’s death with mutual forbearance.
哈丽特在这个场合表现得非常好，非常有自制力。无论她感受到什么光明的希望，她都没有背叛任何东西。爱玛很高兴在她身上看到了如此坚强的性格，并没有提及任何可能危及其维持的暗示。因此，他们在谈到丘吉尔夫人的死时，都表现得很克制。

Short letters from Frank were received at Randalls, communicating all that was immediately important of their state and plans. Mr. Churchill was better than could be expected; and their first removal, on the departure of the funeral for Yorkshire, was to be to the house of a very old friend in Windsor, to whom Mr. Churchill had been promising a visit the last ten years. At present, there was nothing to be done for Harriet; good wishes for the future were all that could yet be possible on Emma’s side.
兰德尔斯收到了弗兰克发来的短信，传达了对他们的州和计划至关重要的所有信息。丘吉尔先生的表现超出了人们的预期。他们第一次搬家是在前往约克郡的葬礼上，前往温莎的一位老朋友家，丘吉尔先生在过去十年里一直答应拜访他。目前，对哈丽特无能为力。艾玛所能做的就是对未来的美好祝愿。

It was a more pressing concern to shew attention to Jane Fairfax, whose prospects were closing, while Harriet’s opened, and whose engagements now allowed of no delay in any one at Highbury, who wished to shew her kindness—and with Emma it was grown into a first wish. She had scarcely a stronger regret than for her past coldness; and the person, whom she had been so many months neglecting, was now the very one on whom she would have lavished every distinction of regard or sympathy. She wanted to be of use to her; wanted to shew a value for her society, and testify respect and consideration. She resolved to prevail on her to spend a day at Hartfield. A note was written to urge it. The invitation was refused, and by a verbal message. ‘Miss Fairfax was not well enough to write;’ and when Mr. Perry called at Hartfield, the same morning, it appeared that she was so much indisposed as to have been visited, though against her own consent, by himself, and that she was suffering under severe headaches, and a nervous fever to a degree, which made him doubt the possibility of her going to Mrs. Smallridge’s at the time proposed. Her health seemed for the moment completely deranged— appetite quite gone—and though there were no absolutely alarming symptoms, nothing touching the pulmonary complaint, which was the standing apprehension of the family, Mr. Perry was uneasy about her. He thought she had undertaken more than she was equal to, and that she felt it so herself, though she would not own it. Her spirits seemed overcome. Her present home, he could not but observe, was unfavourable to a nervous disorder:— confined always to one room;—he could have wished it otherwise— and her good aunt, though his very old friend, he must acknowledge to be not the best companion for an invalid of that description. Her care and attention could not be questioned; they were, in fact, only too great. He very much feared that Miss Fairfax derived more evil than good from them. Emma listened with the warmest concern; grieved for her more and more, and looked around eager to discover some way of being useful. To take her—be it only an hour or two—from her aunt, to give her change of air and scene, and quiet rational conversation, even for an hour or two, might do her good; and the following morning she wrote again to say, in the most feeling language she could command, that she would call for her in the carriage at any hour that Jane would name— mentioning that she had Mr. Perry’s decided opinion, in favour of such exercise for his patient. The answer was only in this short note:
更紧迫的问题是要引起对简·费尔法克斯的关注，她的前景即将结束，而哈丽特的前景一片光明，现在海布里的任何一个想表达她的善意的人都不能再拖延她的约会——而与艾玛的关系已经发展成了第一个愿望。她最后悔的莫过于过去的冷漠。这个她几个月来一直忽视的人，现在正是她愿意给予一切尊重或同情的人。她想对她有用；想要展现对社会的价值，并证明尊重和考虑。她决定说服她去哈特菲尔德待一天。写了一张纸条来敦促它。邀请被拒绝了，并且是通过口头信息拒绝的。 “费尔法克斯小姐的身体状况不好，无法写作。”当天早上，当佩里先生到哈特菲尔德拜访时，她似乎非常不舒服，以至于不得不亲自去看望她，尽管她本人不同意，而且她她正遭受着严重的头痛和一定程度的神经性发烧，这使他怀疑她当时提议去斯莫里奇太太那里的可能性。她的健康状况似乎完全失常了——食欲完全消失了——虽然没有任何绝对令人震惊的症状，也没有触及肺部疾病，这是家人一直担心的问题，但佩里先生对她感到不安。他认为她所做的事情超出了她所能承担的范围，而且她自己也这么认为，尽管她并不承认这一点。她的精神似乎受到了打击。 他不得不观察到，她现在的家不利于神经紊乱：——总是被限制在一个房间里；——他本来可以希望不是这样——而她的好姨妈，虽然是他的老朋友，但他必须承认她不是对于这种描述的病人来说，这是最好的伴侣。她的关心和关注是不容置疑的。事实上，他们实在是太伟大了。他非常担心费尔法克斯小姐从他们身上得到的恶多于善。艾玛带着最热情的关心听着。我越来越为她悲伤，并四处张望，渴望找到一些有用的方法。把她从姨妈身边带走——哪怕只有一两个小时，给她换换空气和环境，安静地进行理性的谈话，即使是一两个小时，也可能对她有好处；但如果是这样的话，她可能会受到伤害。第二天早上，她又写信说，用她所能掌握的最动情的语言，她会在简指定的任何时间在马车上叫她——提到她有佩里先生的明确意见，赞成这样为他的病人锻炼身体。 答案就在这篇简短的注释中：

‘Miss Fairfax’s compliments and thanks, but is quite unequal to any exercise.’
“费尔法克斯小姐的赞美和感谢，但这比任何练习都重要。”

Emma felt that her own note had deserved something better; but it was impossible to quarrel with words, whose tremulous inequality shewed indisposition so plainly, and she thought only of how she might best counteract this unwillingness to be seen or assisted. In spite of the answer, therefore, she ordered the carriage, and drove to Mrs. Bates’s, in the hope that Jane would be induced to join her— but it would not do;—Miss Bates came to the carriage door, all gratitude, and agreeing with her most earnestly in thinking an airing might be of the greatest service—and every thing that message could do was tried— but all in vain. Miss Bates was obliged to return without success; Jane was quite unpersuadable; the mere proposal of going out seemed to make her worse.—Emma wished she could have seen her, and tried her own powers; but, almost before she could hint the wish, Miss Bates made it appear that she had promised her niece on no account to let Miss Woodhouse in. ‘Indeed, the truth was, that poor dear Jane could not bear to see any body—any body at all— Mrs. Elton, indeed, could not be denied—and Mrs. Cole had made such a point—and Mrs. Perry had said so much—but, except them, Jane would really see nobody.’
艾玛觉得她自己的便条值得更好的东西；但用言语来争论是不可能的，言语中令人不安的不平等如此明显地表明了她的不适，她只想着如何才能最好地抵消这种不愿被看见或帮助的情绪。因此，尽管得到了答复，她还是订了马车，开往贝茨夫人家，希望能引诱简加入她——但这不行；——贝茨小姐满怀感激地来到马车门口，我非常真诚地同意她的看法，认为播出可能会带来最大的服务——并且尝试了这条消息所能做的一切——但一切都是徒劳。贝茨小姐只好返回，但没有成功。简很难被说服。仅仅提出出去似乎就让她的情况变得更糟。——艾玛希望自己能见到她，并尝试了自己的力量；但她没有。但是，几乎在她能够暗示这一愿望之前，贝茨小姐就表现出她已经答应她的侄女无论如何都不会让伍德豪斯小姐进来。“事实上，事实是，可怜的亲爱的简无法忍受看到任何人——任何人。”根本没有身体——埃尔顿夫人，确实，不能否认——科尔夫人提出了这样的观点——佩里夫人说了这么多——但是，除了他们，简真的不会见到任何人。

Emma did not want to be classed with the Mrs. Eltons, the Mrs. Perrys, and the Mrs. Coles, who would force themselves anywhere; neither could she feel any right of preference herself— she submitted, therefore, and only questioned Miss Bates farther as to her niece’s appetite and diet, which she longed to be able to assist. On that subject poor Miss Bates was very unhappy, and very communicative; Jane would hardly eat any thing:— Mr. Perry recommended nourishing food; but every thing they could command (and never had any body such good neighbours) was distasteful.
艾玛不想与埃尔顿夫人、佩里夫人和科尔斯夫人归为一类，他们会强迫自己去任何地方；她自己也感觉不到任何优先权——因此，她屈服了，只是进一步询问贝茨小姐她侄女的胃口和饮食，她渴望能够提供帮助。在这个问题上，可怜的贝茨小姐非常不高兴，而且很健谈。简几乎不吃任何东西：——佩里先生推荐营养食品；但他们所能指挥的一切（从来没有人是如此好的邻居）都是令人厌恶的。

Emma, on reaching home, called the housekeeper directly, to an examination of her stores; and some arrowroot of very superior quality was speedily despatched to Miss Bates with a most friendly note. In half an hour the arrowroot was returned, with a thousand thanks from Miss Bates, but ‘dear Jane would not be satisfied without its being sent back; it was a thing she could not take—and, moreover, she insisted on her saying, that she was not at all in want of any thing.’
艾玛一到家，就直接打电话给管家，让她检查她的商店。一些质量非常上乘的竹芋很快就被寄给了贝茨小姐，并附上了最友好的字条。半小时后，竹芋被归还，贝茨小姐表达了一千个感谢，但是“亲爱的简，如果不把它送回，她是不会满意的；”这是她无法接受的——而且，她坚持说，她根本不需要任何东西。

When Emma afterwards heard that Jane Fairfax had been seen wandering about the meadows, at some distance from Highbury, on the afternoon of the very day on which she had, under the plea of being unequal to any exercise, so peremptorily refused to go out with her in the carriage, she could have no doubt—putting every thing together— that Jane was resolved to receive no kindness from her. She was sorry, very sorry. Her heart was grieved for a state which seemed but the more pitiable from this sort of irritation of spirits, inconsistency of action, and inequality of powers; and it mortified her that she was given so little credit for proper feeling, or esteemed so little worthy as a friend: but she had the consolation of knowing that her intentions were good, and of being able to say to herself, that could Mr. Knightley have been privy to all her attempts of assisting Jane Fairfax, could he even have seen into her heart, he would not, on this occasion, have found any thing to reprove.
后来艾玛听说有人看见简·费尔法克斯在离海布里有一段距离的草地上闲逛，就在那天下午，她以无法进行任何锻炼为借口，断然拒绝和她一起出去。从她在马车上的情况来看，她毫不怀疑——综合所有因素——简决心不再接受她的善意。她很抱歉，非常抱歉。她的内心为这种精神上的激怒、行动上的不一致和权力上的不平等而感到更加可怜。令她感到羞愧的是，她没有得到如此好的感情，也没有被视为有资格作为朋友。但她感到安慰的是，她知道自己的意图是好的，并且能够对自己说，先生可以。奈特利对她帮助简·费尔法克斯的所有尝试都心知肚明，如果他能看透她的内心，在这种情况下，他就不会找到任何可以责备的地方。

Chapter X
第十章

One morning, about ten days after Mrs. Churchill’s decease, Emma was called downstairs to Mr. Weston, who ‘could not stay five minutes, and wanted particularly to speak with her.’— He met her at the parlour-door, and hardly asking her how she did, in the natural key of his voice, sunk it immediately, to say, unheard by her father,
一天早上，大约在丘吉尔夫人去世十天后，艾玛被叫到楼下的韦斯顿先生那里，韦斯顿​​先生“不能停留五分钟，特别想和她谈谈。”——他在客厅门口遇见了她，几乎没有见面。用自然的语调问她过得怎么样，他立即压低了声音，说道，但她父亲没有听见，

‘Can you come to Randalls at any time this morning?—Do, if it be possible. Mrs. Weston wants to see you. She must see you.’
“今天早上你可以随时来兰德尔斯吗？——如果可能的话，就来吧。”韦斯顿夫人想见你。她一定要见你。

‘Is she unwell?’
“她身体不舒服吗？”

‘No, no, not at all—only a little agitated. She would have ordered the carriage, and come to you, but she must see you alone, and that you know—(nodding towards her father)—Humph!—Can you come?’
“不不不，一点也不——只是有点激动。她本来会叫马车来找你，但她必须单独见到你，而且你知道——（向她父亲点头）——哼！——你能来吗？

‘Certainly. This moment, if you please. It is impossible to refuse what you ask in such a way. But what can be the matter?— Is she really not ill?’
'当然。这一刻，如果你愿意的话。以这种方式拒绝你的要求是不可能的。但到底是怎么回事呢？——她真的没病吗？

‘Depend upon me—but ask no more questions. You will know it all in time. The most unaccountable business! But hush, hush!’
“依靠我——但不要再问任何问题。到时候你就会知道这一切。最不负责任的生意！但是安静，安静！’

To guess what all this meant, was impossible even for Emma. Something really important seemed announced by his looks; but, as her friend was well, she endeavoured not to be uneasy, and settling it with her father, that she would take her walk now, she and Mr. Weston were soon out of the house together and on their way at a quick pace for Randalls.
即使艾玛也无法猜出这一切意味着什么。他的外表似乎揭示了一些真正重要的事情；但是，由于她的朋友身体很好，她尽量不感到不安，并与父亲商量好，她现在就去散步，她和韦斯顿先生很快就一起出了家门，快步上路。对于兰德尔斯来说。

‘Now,’—said Emma, when they were fairly beyond the sweep gates,— ‘now Mr. Weston, do let me know what has happened.’
“现在，”当他们已经走出扫门的时候，艾玛说道，“韦斯顿先生，请让我知道发生了什么事。”

‘No, no,’—he gravely replied.—‘Don’t ask me. I promised my wife to leave it all to her. She will break it to you better than I can. Do not be impatient, Emma; it will all come out too soon.’
“不，不，”他严肃地回答道，“别问我。我答应我的妻子，把一切都交给她。她会比我更好地告诉你。不要不耐烦，艾玛；这一切都太快了。

‘Break it to me,’ cried Emma, standing still with terror.— ‘Good God!—Mr. Weston, tell me at once.—Something has happened in Brunswick Square. I know it has. Tell me, I charge you tell me this moment what it is.’
“把它给我打破，”艾玛惊恐地站着不动，喊道。——“天啊！——先生。”韦斯顿，立即告诉我。——不伦瑞克广场发生了什么事。我知道有。告诉我，我要求你现在告诉我那是什么。”

‘No, indeed you are mistaken.’—
“不，你确实错了。”——

‘Mr. Weston do not trifle with me.—Consider how many of my dearest friends are now in Brunswick Square. Which of them is it?— I charge you by all that is sacred, not to attempt concealment.’
'先生。韦斯顿别跟我开玩笑。——想想我有多少最亲爱的朋友现在在不伦瑞克广场。是哪一个？——我以神圣的名义告诫你，不要试图隐瞒。

‘Upon my word, Emma.’—
“我保证，艾玛。”——

‘Your word!—why not your honour!—why not say upon your honour, that it has nothing to do with any of them? Good Heavens!—What can be to be broke to me, that does not relate to one of that family?’
“您的话！——为什么不以您的名誉担保！——为什么不以您的名誉担保，这件事与他们中的任何一个人都没有关系？”天啊！——对我来说，还有什么事情是与那个家庭无关的呢？

‘Upon my honour,’ said he very seriously, ‘it does not. It is not in the smallest degree connected with any human being of the name of Knightley.’
“以我的名誉担保，”他非常严肃地说，“事实并非如此。”它与奈特利这个名字的任何人都没有丝毫联系。

Emma’s courage returned, and she walked on.
艾玛恢复了勇气，继续前行。

‘I was wrong,’ he continued, ‘in talking of its being broke to you. I should not have used the expression. In fact, it does not concern you— it concerns only myself,—that is, we hope.—Humph!—In short, my dear Emma, there is no occasion to be so uneasy about it. I don’t say that it is not a disagreeable business—but things might be much worse.—If we walk fast, we shall soon be at Randalls.’
“我错了，”他继续说道，“我说它对你来说是破产的。”我不应该使用这个表达方式。事实上，这与你无关——它只与我自己有关——也就是说，我们希望如此。——哼！——总之，我亲爱的艾玛，没有必要为此感到如此不安。我并不是说这不是一件令人不愉快的事——但事情可能会更糟。——如果我们走得快，我们很快就会到达兰德尔斯。

Emma found that she must wait; and now it required little effort. She asked no more questions therefore, merely employed her own fancy, and that soon pointed out to her the probability of its being some money concern—something just come to light, of a disagreeable nature in the circumstances of the family,—something which the late event at Richmond had brought forward. Her fancy was very active. Half a dozen natural children, perhaps—and poor Frank cut off!— This, though very undesirable, would be no matter of agony to her. It inspired little more than an animating curiosity.
艾玛发现她必须等待；现在只需付出很少的努力。因此，她没有再问任何问题，只是发挥了自己的想象力，很快就向她指出，这可能是一些金钱问题——一些刚刚曝光的事情，在家庭情况下具有令人不愉快的性质——一些里士满迟到的活动提前了。她的想象力非常活跃。也许有六个亲生孩子——可怜的弗兰克被切断了！——这虽然非常不受欢迎，但对她来说并不痛苦。它激发的只不过是一种强烈的好奇心。

‘Who is that gentleman on horseback?’ said she, as they proceeded— speaking more to assist Mr. Weston in keeping his secret, than with any other view.
“那位骑马的绅士是谁？”他们继续前行时，她问道——这句话更多是为了帮助韦斯顿先生保守秘密，而不是表达任何其他观点。

‘I do not know.—One of the Otways.—Not Frank;—it is not Frank, I assure you. You will not see him. He is half way to Windsor by this time.’
“我不知道。——奥特威人中的一个。——不是弗兰克；——我向你保证，这不是弗兰克。”你不会看到他。这个时候他已经在去温莎的半路上了。

‘Has your son been with you, then?’
“那么你的儿子和你在一起吗？”

‘Oh! yes—did not you know?—Well, well, never mind.’
'哦！是的——你不知道吗？——好吧，好吧，没关系。

For a moment he was silent; and then added, in a tone much more guarded and demure,
他沉默了一会儿。然后用更加谨慎和端庄的语气补充道，

‘Yes, Frank came over this morning, just to ask us how we did.’
“是的，弗兰克今天早上过来，只是想问我们做得怎么样。”

They hurried on, and were speedily at Randalls.—‘Well, my dear,’ said he, as they entered the room—‘I have brought her, and now I hope you will soon be better. I shall leave you together. There is no use in delay. I shall not be far off, if you want me.’— And Emma distinctly heard him add, in a lower tone, before he quitted the room,—‘I have been as good as my word. She has not the least idea.’
他们继续赶路，很快就到了兰德尔斯。——“好吧，亲爱的，”当他们走进房间时，他说——“我把她带来了，现在我希望你很快就会好起来。”我就让你们一起离开吧。拖延是没有用的。如果你需要我的话，我就在不远的地方。”——艾玛清楚地听到他在离开房间之前用较低的语气补充道——“我一直信守诺言。她一点也不知道。

Mrs. Weston was looking so ill, and had an air of so much perturbation, that Emma’s uneasiness increased; and the moment they were alone, she eagerly said,
韦斯顿太太看上去病得很重，而且神情很不安，艾玛更加不安了。当他们独处时，她急切地说：

‘What is it my dear friend? Something of a very unpleasant nature, I find, has occurred;—do let me know directly what it is. I have been walking all this way in complete suspense. We both abhor suspense. Do not let mine continue longer. It will do you good to speak of your distress, whatever it may be.’
‘亲爱的朋友，这是什么？我发现发生了一些非常不愉快的事情；——请直接告诉我它是什么。我一直怀着忐忑不安的心情走了这一路。我们都讨厌悬念。不要让我的持续时间更长。说出你的痛苦，无论是什么，都会对你有好处。

‘Have you indeed no idea?’ said Mrs. Weston in a trembling voice. ‘Cannot you, my dear Emma—cannot you form a guess as to what you are to hear?’
“你真的不知道吗？”韦斯顿夫人声音颤抖地说。 “你不能吗，我亲爱的艾玛——你不能猜测一下你将听到什么吗？”

‘So far as that it relates to Mr. Frank Churchill, I do guess.’
“就此事而言，我确实认为这与弗兰克·丘吉尔先生有关。”

‘You are right. It does relate to him, and I will tell you directly;’ (resuming her work, and seeming resolved against looking up.) ‘He has been here this very morning, on a most extraordinary errand. It is impossible to express our surprize. He came to speak to his father on a subject,—to announce an attachment—‘
'你是对的。这确实与他有关，我会直接告诉你；”（继续工作，似乎决心不抬头。）“他今天早上就到了这里，执行一项非常特别的任务。无法表达我们的惊讶。他来和他父亲谈论一个话题，——宣布一种依恋——”

She stopped to breathe. Emma thought first of herself, and then of Harriet.
她停下来呼吸。艾玛首先想到的是她自己，然后是哈丽特。

‘More than an attachment, indeed,’ resumed Mrs. Weston; ‘an engagement— a positive engagement.—What will you say, Emma—what will any body say, when it is known that Frank Churchill and Miss Fairfax are engaged;—nay, that they have been long engaged!’
“确实，不仅仅是一种依恋，”韦斯顿夫人继续说道。 “订婚——积极的订婚。——艾玛，你会怎么说——当得知弗兰克·丘吉尔和费尔法克斯小姐订婚时，任何人都会怎么说；——不，他们已经订婚很久了！”

Emma even jumped with surprize;—and, horror-struck, exclaimed,
艾玛甚至惊讶得跳起来；——然后，惊恐地喊道：

‘Jane Fairfax!—Good God! You are not serious? You do not mean it?’
“简·费尔法克斯！——上帝啊！你不认真？你不是这个意思吗？

‘You may well be amazed,’ returned Mrs. Weston, still averting her eyes, and talking on with eagerness, that Emma might have time to recover— ‘You may well be amazed. But it is even so. There has been a solemn engagement between them ever since October—formed at Weymouth, and kept a secret from every body. Not a creature knowing it but themselves—neither the Campbells, nor her family, nor his.— It is so wonderful, that though perfectly convinced of the fact, it is yet almost incredible to myself. I can hardly believe it.— I thought I knew him.’
“你可能会感到惊讶，”韦斯顿夫人回答道，仍然移开眼睛，热切地继续说，以便艾玛有时间恢复——“你可能会感到惊讶。”但即便如此。自十月起，他们之间就在韦茅斯举行了庄严的订婚仪式，并对所有人保密。除了坎贝尔一家、她的家人和他的家人之外，没有一个人知道这一点。这真是太美妙了，尽管我完全相信这一事实，但对我自己来说却几乎难以置信。我简直不敢相信。——我以为我认识他。

Emma scarcely heard what was said.—Her mind was divided between two ideas—her own former conversations with him about Miss Fairfax; and poor Harriet;—and for some time she could only exclaim, and require confirmation, repeated confirmation.
艾玛几乎没听见他们在说什么。——她的脑子里有两个想法——她自己以前和他关于费尔法克斯小姐的谈话；以及她自己和他关于费尔法克斯小姐的谈话。还有可怜的哈丽特；——有一段时间她只能惊呼，并要求确认，反复确认。

‘Well,’ said she at last, trying to recover herself; ‘this is a circumstance which I must think of at least half a day, before I can at all comprehend it. What!—engaged to her all the winter— before either of them came to Highbury?’
“好吧，”她最后说道，试图让自己平静下来。 ‘这种情况我至少要想半天，才能完全理解。什么！——在他们来到海布里之前，就和她订婚了整个冬天？”

‘Engaged since October,—secretly engaged.—It has hurt me, Emma, very much. It has hurt his father equally. Some part of his conduct we cannot excuse.’
“从十月起就订婚了——秘密订婚。——这让我很伤心，艾玛。这同样伤害了他的父亲。他的某些行为我们不能原谅。

Emma pondered a moment, and then replied, ‘I will not pretend not to understand you; and to give you all the relief in my power, be assured that no such effect has followed his attentions to me, as you are apprehensive of.’
艾玛沉思了一会儿，然后回答说：“我不会假装听不懂你的意思；我不会假装听不懂你的意思。”为了让你放心，我保证，他对我的关注并没有像你担心的那样产生任何影响。

Mrs. Weston looked up, afraid to believe; but Emma’s countenance was as steady as her words.
韦斯顿夫人抬起头，不敢相信。但艾玛的表情和她的话一样坚定。

‘That you may have less difficulty in believing this boast, of my present perfect indifference,’ she continued, ‘I will farther tell you, that there was a period in the early part of our acquaintance, when I did like him, when I was very much disposed to be attached to him—nay, was attached—and how it came to cease, is perhaps the wonder. Fortunately, however, it did cease. I have really for some time past, for at least these three months, cared nothing about him. You may believe me, Mrs. Weston. This is the simple truth.’
“为了让你更容易相信我现在完全漠不关心的这种吹嘘，”她继续说道，“我还要告诉你，在我们相识的早期，有一段时期，我确实喜欢他，当时我他非常想依恋他——不，是依恋他——而这种依恋是如何停止的，也许是个奇迹。不过幸运的是，它确实停止了。我确实已经有一段时间了，至少这三个月以来，已经不关心他了。你可以相信我，韦斯顿夫人。这是简单的事实。

Mrs. Weston kissed her with tears of joy; and when she could find utterance, assured her, that this protestation had done her more good than any thing else in the world could do.
韦斯顿夫人流着喜悦的泪水吻了她。当她能找到言语时，她向她保证，这个抗议对她的好处比世界上任何其他事情都大。

‘Mr. Weston will be almost as much relieved as myself,’ said she. ‘On this point we have been wretched. It was our darling wish that you might be attached to each other—and we were persuaded that it was so.— Imagine what we have been feeling on your account.’
'先生。韦斯顿几乎会像我一样松一口气，”她说。 ‘在这一点上我们很不幸。我们亲爱的愿望是你们能够彼此依恋——我们相信事实确实如此。——想象一下我们对你的感受。

‘I have escaped; and that I should escape, may be a matter of grateful wonder to you and myself. But this does not acquit him, Mrs. Weston; and I must say, that I think him greatly to blame. What right had he to come among us with affection and faith engaged, and with manners so very disengaged? What right had he to endeavour to please, as he certainly did—to distinguish any one young woman with persevering attention, as he certainly did—while he really belonged to another?—How could he tell what mischief he might be doing?— How could he tell that he might not be making me in love with him?— very wrong, very wrong indeed.’
‘我已经逃脱了；我应该逃脱，这对你和我来说可能是一件令人感激的事情。但这并不能宣告他无罪，韦斯顿夫人；我必须说，我认为他应该受到很大的责备。他有什么权利带着感情和信仰来到我们中间，而举止却如此不拘一格？他有什么权利像他确实所做的那样努力取悦任何一位年轻女子，就像他确实所做的那样，以持久的关注来区分任何一位年轻女子，而他实际上属于另一个女人？他怎么知道他可能在做什么恶作剧？他能看出他可能没有让我爱上他吗？——非常错误，确实非常错误。

‘From something that he said, my dear Emma, I rather imagine—‘
“根据他所说的话，我亲爱的艾玛，我宁愿想象——”

‘And how could she bear such behaviour! Composure with a witness! to look on, while repeated attentions were offering to another woman, before her face, and not resent it.—That is a degree of placidity, which I can neither comprehend nor respect.’
‘她怎么能忍受这样的行为！面对目击者保持冷静！当着另一个女人的面不断地关注她时，看着她，而不是怨恨它。——这是一种我既不能理解也不能尊重的平静。

‘There were misunderstandings between them, Emma; he said so expressly. He had not time to enter into much explanation. He was here only a quarter of an hour, and in a state of agitation which did not allow the full use even of the time he could stay— but that there had been misunderstandings he decidedly said. The present crisis, indeed, seemed to be brought on by them; and those misunderstandings might very possibly arise from the impropriety of his conduct.’
“他们之间存在误会，艾玛；他这么明确地说。他没有时间进行太多解释。他只在这里待了一刻钟，而且处于一种焦躁的状态，甚至无法充分利用他可以停留的时间——但他明确表示，其中存在误会。事实上，目前的危机似乎是他们造成的。这些误解很可能是由于他的行为不当而引起的。”

‘Impropriety! Oh! Mrs. Weston—it is too calm a censure. Much, much beyond impropriety!—It has sunk him, I cannot say how it has sunk him in my opinion. So unlike what a man should be!— None of that upright integrity, that strict adherence to truth and principle, that disdain of trick and littleness, which a man should display in every transaction of his life.’
‘不当！哦！韦斯顿夫人——这样的责难太平静了。远远超出了不当行为！——它已经让他沉沦了，我无法说出在我看来它是如何让他沉沦的。完全不像一个男人应该有的样子！——没有一个人在生活中的每件事中应该表现出的正直正直，严格遵守真理和原则，蔑视诡计和小事。

‘Nay, dear Emma, now I must take his part; for though he has been wrong in this instance, I have known him long enough to answer for his having many, very many, good qualities; and—‘
“不，亲爱的艾玛，现在我必须支持他；因为尽管他在这件事上错了，但我认识他已经足够久了，我可以回答他有很多很多好的品质。和-'

‘Good God!’ cried Emma, not attending to her.—‘Mrs. Smallridge, too! Jane actually on the point of going as governess! What could he mean by such horrible indelicacy? To suffer her to engage herself— to suffer her even to think of such a measure!’
“天哪！”艾玛喊道，没有理会她。小岭也有！简实际上正打算去当家庭教师！他这么可怕的粗鄙行为是什么意思？让她参与其中——甚至让她想到这样的措施！

‘He knew nothing about it, Emma. On this article I can fully acquit him. It was a private resolution of hers, not communicated to him—or at least not communicated in a way to carry conviction.— Till yesterday, I know he said he was in the dark as to her plans. They burst on him, I do not know how, but by some letter or message— and it was the discovery of what she was doing, of this very project of hers, which determined him to come forward at once, own it all to his uncle, throw himself on his kindness, and, in short, put an end to the miserable state of concealment that had been carrying on so long.’
“他对此一无所知，艾玛。通过这篇文章我可以完全宣告他无罪。这是她的私人决定，没有传达给他——或者至少没有以一种令人信服的方式传达。——直到昨天，我知道他说他对她的计划一无所知。他们突然袭击了他，我不知道如何，但是通过一些信件或消息——正是发现了她正在做的事情，发现了她的这个项目，这决定了他立即挺身而出，将这一切都归他所有。叔叔，请投身于他的仁慈之中，总之，结束已经持续了这么长时间的悲惨的隐瞒状态。

Emma began to listen better.
艾玛开始更好地倾听。

‘I am to hear from him soon,’ continued Mrs. Weston. ‘He told me at parting, that he should soon write; and he spoke in a manner which seemed to promise me many particulars that could not be given now. Let us wait, therefore, for this letter. It may bring many extenuations. It may make many things intelligible and excusable which now are not to be understood. Don’t let us be severe, don’t let us be in a hurry to condemn him. Let us have patience. I must love him; and now that I am satisfied on one point, the one material point, I am sincerely anxious for its all turning out well, and ready to hope that it may. They must both have suffered a great deal under such a system of secresy and concealment.’
“我很快就会收到他的消息，”韦斯顿夫人继续说道。 “临别时他告诉我，他应该尽快写信；他说话的方式似乎向我承诺了许多现在无法透露的细节。因此，让我们等待这封信。它可能会带来许多情有可原。它可以使许多现在无法理解的事情变得可理解和情有可原。不要让我们严厉，不要让我们急于谴责他。让我们有耐心。我必须爱他；既然我对某一点、某一实质点感到满意，我真诚地希望一切都能顺利进行，并准备好希望如此。在这种保密和隐瞒的制度下，他们一定都遭受了很大的痛苦。

‘His sufferings,’ replied Emma dryly, ‘do not appear to have done him much harm. Well, and how did Mr. Churchill take it?’
“他的痛苦，”艾玛干巴巴地回答，“看来并没有给他带来多大的伤害。那么，丘吉尔先生对此有何看法呢？

‘Most favourably for his nephew—gave his consent with scarcely a difficulty. Conceive what the events of a week have done in that family! While poor Mrs. Churchill lived, I suppose there could not have been a hope, a chance, a possibility;—but scarcely are her remains at rest in the family vault, than her husband is persuaded to act exactly opposite to what she would have required. What a blessing it is, when undue influence does not survive the grave!— He gave his consent with very little persuasion.’
“这对他的侄子来说是最有利的——他毫不费力地就同意了。想象一下一周发生的事情对那个家庭造成了什么影响！当可怜的丘吉尔夫人活着时，我想不可能有希望，机会，可能性；但她的遗体几乎没有安息在家庭金库中，她的丈夫就被说服采取与她所希望的完全相反的行动必需的。当不适当的影响在坟墓中消失时，这是多么大的祝福啊！——他几乎没有经过说服就同意了。

‘Ah!’ thought Emma, ‘he would have done as much for Harriet.’
“啊！”艾玛想，“他也会为哈丽特做同样多的事情。”

‘This was settled last night, and Frank was off with the light this morning. He stopped at Highbury, at the Bates’s, I fancy, some time—and then came on hither; but was in such a hurry to get back to his uncle, to whom he is just now more necessary than ever, that, as I tell you, he could stay with us but a quarter of an hour.— He was very much agitated—very much, indeed—to a degree that made him appear quite a different creature from any thing I had ever seen him before.—In addition to all the rest, there had been the shock of finding her so very unwell, which he had had no previous suspicion of— and there was every appearance of his having been feeling a great deal.’
“这件事昨晚就解决了，弗兰克今天早上就熄灯了。我想，他曾在海布里的贝茨家停过一段时间——然后又来到这里。但他急于回到他叔叔身边，对他来说，他现在比以往任何时候都更加重要，所以，正如我告诉你的，他只能和我们呆一刻钟。——他非常激动——的确，非常严重——在某种程度上，他看起来与我以前见过的任何人都截然不同。——除了所有其他的事情之外，还发现她身体如此不适，这让他感到震惊，这让他感到震惊。之前没有任何怀疑——而且从各个方面来看，他的感受都非常好。”

‘And do you really believe the affair to have been carrying on with such perfect secresy?—The Campbells, the Dixons, did none of them know of the engagement?’
“你真的相信这件事是在如此绝对保密的情况下进行的吗？——坎贝尔夫妇、迪克森夫妇，他们都不知道订婚的事吗？”

Emma could not speak the name of Dixon without a little blush.
艾玛一提到迪克森的名字就会脸红。

‘None; not one. He positively said that it had been known to no being in the world but their two selves.’
'没有任何;不是一个。他肯定地说，除了他们两个自己之外，世界上没有人知道这一点。

‘Well,’ said Emma, ‘I suppose we shall gradually grow reconciled to the idea, and I wish them very happy. But I shall always think it a very abominable sort of proceeding. What has it been but a system of hypocrisy and deceit,—espionage, and treachery?— To come among us with professions of openness and simplicity; and such a league in secret to judge us all!—Here have we been, the whole winter and spring, completely duped, fancying ourselves all on an equal footing of truth and honour, with two people in the midst of us who may have been carrying round, comparing and sitting in judgment on sentiments and words that were never meant for both to hear.—They must take the consequence, if they have heard each other spoken of in a way not perfectly agreeable!’
“好吧，”艾玛说，“我想我们会逐渐接受这个想法，我祝他们幸福。”但我始终认为这是一种非常令人憎恶的行为。这不就是一个虚伪和欺骗的体系——间谍活动和背叛吗？——带着开放和简单的表白来到我们中间；整个冬天和春天，我们都被欺骗了，幻想着我们所有人都处于平等的真理和荣誉的基础上，而我们中间有两个人，他们可能是被欺骗的人。对那些本来不应该让双方听到的情感和话语进行随身携带、比较和评判。——如果他们听到对方以一种不完全令人愉快的方式谈论对方，他们必须承担后果！

‘I am quite easy on that head,’ replied Mrs. Weston. ‘I am very sure that I never said any thing of either to the other, which both might not have heard.’
“我在这方面很轻松，”韦斯顿夫人回答道。 “我非常确定我从未对对方说过任何事情，而双方可能都没有听到。”

‘You are in luck.—Your only blunder was confined to my ear, when you imagined a certain friend of ours in love with the lady.’
“你很幸运。——你唯一的错误仅限于我的耳朵，当你想象我们的某个朋友爱上了这位女士时。”

‘True. But as I have always had a thoroughly good opinion of Miss Fairfax, I never could, under any blunder, have spoken ill of her; and as to speaking ill of him, there I must have been safe.’
'真的。但由于我对费尔法克斯小姐一直抱有非常好的看法，所以即使犯了任何错误，我也绝不会说她的坏话。至于说他的坏话，我在那里一定是安全的。

At this moment Mr. Weston appeared at a little distance from the window, evidently on the watch. His wife gave him a look which invited him in; and, while he was coming round, added, ‘Now, dearest Emma, let me intreat you to say and look every thing that may set his heart at ease, and incline him to be satisfied with the match. Let us make the best of it—and, indeed, almost every thing may be fairly said in her favour. It is not a connexion to gratify; but if Mr. Churchill does not feel that, why should we? and it may be a very fortunate circumstance for him, for Frank, I mean, that he should have attached himself to a girl of such steadiness of character and good judgment as I have always given her credit for— and still am disposed to give her credit for, in spite of this one great deviation from the strict rule of right. And how much may be said in her situation for even that error!’
这时，韦斯顿先生出现在离窗户不远的地方，显然正在值班。他的妻子看了他一眼，邀请他进来。当他醒过来时，又补充道：“现在，最亲爱的艾玛，让我恳求你说并看看一切能让他安心的事情，让他对这门亲事感到满意。”让我们充分利用这一点——事实上，几乎所有事情都可以公平地说对她有利。这不是一种令人满足的联系；而是一种令人满足的联系。但如果丘吉尔先生不这么认为，我们为什么要这么做呢？我的意思是，对他来说，对弗兰克来说，这可能是一个非常幸运的情况，他应该爱上一个性格稳定、判断力好的女孩，正如我一直给予她的信任一样——而且仍然愿意给予她尽管这是对严格权利规则的极大偏离，但还是值得称赞的。在她的情况下，即使是这个错误，也值得说多少！

‘Much, indeed!’ cried Emma feelingly. ‘If a woman can ever be excused for thinking only of herself, it is in a situation like Jane Fairfax’s.—Of such, one may almost say, that ‘the world is not their’s, nor the world’s law.’’
“确实很多！”艾玛感慨地喊道。 “如果一个女人只考虑自己是可以原谅的，那就是像简·费尔法克斯那样的情况。——对此，人们几乎可以说，‘世界不是她们的，也不是世界的法律。’”

She met Mr. Weston on his entrance, with a smiling countenance, exclaiming,
她一进门就遇见了韦斯顿先生，脸上带着微笑，大声喊道：

‘A very pretty trick you have been playing me, upon my word! This was a device, I suppose, to sport with my curiosity, and exercise my talent of guessing. But you really frightened me. I thought you had lost half your property, at least. And here, instead of its being a matter of condolence, it turns out to be one of congratulation.—I congratulate you, Mr. Weston, with all my heart, on the prospect of having one of the most lovely and accomplished young women in England for your daughter.’
“你给我开了一个非常漂亮的把戏，我保证！”我想，这是一种激发我的好奇心、锻炼我的猜测天赋的手段。但你真的吓到我了。我以为你至少失去了一半的财产。在这里，它不再是一种哀悼，而是一种祝贺。——韦斯顿先生，我衷心祝贺你，因为你有望拥有世界上最可爱、最有成就的年轻女性之一。英格兰为你的女儿。

A glance or two between him and his wife, convinced him that all was as right as this speech proclaimed; and its happy effect on his spirits was immediate. His air and voice recovered their usual briskness: he shook her heartily and gratefully by the hand, and entered on the subject in a manner to prove, that he now only wanted time and persuasion to think the engagement no very bad thing. His companions suggested only what could palliate imprudence, or smooth objections; and by the time they had talked it all over together, and he had talked it all over again with Emma, in their walk back to Hartfield, he was become perfectly reconciled, and not far from thinking it the very best thing that Frank could possibly have done.
他和妻子看了一两眼，就确信一切都像这次演讲所宣称的那样。这对他的精神产生了立竿见影的快乐效果。他的神情和声音恢复了往常的轻快：他衷心而感激地握着她的手，然后进入这个话题，以证明他现在只需要时间和说服力，让他认为订婚并不是一件坏事。他的同伴只提出了一些可以缓和轻率或圆滑反对的建议；当他们一起谈论这件事时，在他们走回哈特菲尔德的路上，他又和艾玛谈论了一遍，他已经完全和解了，而且几乎认为这是弗兰克能做的最好的事情。完成了。

Chapter XI
第十一章

‘Harriet, poor Harriet!’—Those were the words; in them lay the tormenting ideas which Emma could not get rid of, and which constituted the real misery of the business to her. Frank Churchill had behaved very ill by herself—very ill in many ways,—but it was not so much his behaviour as her own, which made her so angry with him. It was the scrape which he had drawn her into on Harriet’s account, that gave the deepest hue to his offence.—Poor Harriet! to be a second time the dupe of her misconceptions and flattery. Mr. Knightley had spoken prophetically, when he once said, ‘Emma, you have been no friend to Harriet Smith.’—She was afraid she had done her nothing but disservice.—It was true that she had not to charge herself, in this instance as in the former, with being the sole and original author of the mischief; with having suggested such feelings as might otherwise never have entered Harriet’s imagination; for Harriet had acknowledged her admiration and preference of Frank Churchill before she had ever given her a hint on the subject; but she felt completely guilty of having encouraged what she might have repressed. She might have prevented the indulgence and increase of such sentiments. Her influence would have been enough. And now she was very conscious that she ought to have prevented them.—She felt that she had been risking her friend’s happiness on most insufficient grounds. Common sense would have directed her to tell Harriet, that she must not allow herself to think of him, and that there were five hundred chances to one against his ever caring for her.—‘But, with common sense,’ she added, ‘I am afraid I have had little to do.’
“哈丽特，可怜的哈丽特！”——这就是这句话；其中蕴藏着艾玛无法摆脱的折磨人的想法，这对她来说构成了这个行业真正的痛苦。弗兰克·丘吉尔自己的行为非常糟糕——在很多方面都很糟糕——但让她对他如此生气的并不是他的行为，而是她自己的行为。正是他为了哈丽特而把她卷入了困境，这才使他的冒犯行为显得最深重。——可怜的哈丽特！第二次被她的误解和奉承所欺骗。奈特利先生曾经预言道：“艾玛，你对哈丽特·史密斯来说根本算不上朋友。”——她担心自己除了伤害自己之外什么也没做。——确实，她不必为自己充电，因为这个例子和前一个例子一样，都是恶作剧的唯一和原创者；暗示了哈丽特的想象中可能永远不会有的感受；因为哈丽特在向弗兰克·丘吉尔暗示这个话题之前就已经承认了她对弗兰克·丘吉尔的钦佩和偏爱。但她对自己鼓励了自己可能压抑的事情感到非常内疚。她本可以阻止这种情绪的纵容和增长。她的影响力就足够了。现在她非常清楚，她应该阻止他们。——她觉得自己在拿朋友的幸福冒险，理由却很不充分。常识会引导她告诉哈丽特，她不能让自己想起他，而且有五百个机会反对他永远关心她。——“但是，根据常识，”她补充道，“恐怕我没什么可做的。

She was extremely angry with herself. If she could not have been angry with Frank Churchill too, it would have been dreadful.— As for Jane Fairfax, she might at least relieve her feelings from any present solicitude on her account. Harriet would be anxiety enough; she need no longer be unhappy about Jane, whose troubles and whose ill-health having, of course, the same origin, must be equally under cure.—Her days of insignificance and evil were over.—She would soon be well, and happy, and prosperous.— Emma could now imagine why her own attentions had been slighted. This discovery laid many smaller matters open. No doubt it had been from jealousy.—In Jane’s eyes she had been a rival; and well might any thing she could offer of assistance or regard be repulsed. An airing in the Hartfield carriage would have been the rack, and arrowroot from the Hartfield storeroom must have been poison. She understood it all; and as far as her mind could disengage itself from the injustice and selfishness of angry feelings, she acknowledged that Jane Fairfax would have neither elevation nor happiness beyond her desert. But poor Harriet was such an engrossing charge! There was little sympathy to be spared for any body else. Emma was sadly fearful that this second disappointment would be more severe than the first. Considering the very superior claims of the object, it ought; and judging by its apparently stronger effect on Harriet’s mind, producing reserve and self-command, it would.— She must communicate the painful truth, however, and as soon as possible. An injunction of secresy had been among Mr. Weston’s parting words. ‘For the present, the whole affair was to be completely a secret. Mr. Churchill had made a point of it, as a token of respect to the wife he had so very recently lost; and every body admitted it to be no more than due decorum.’— Emma had promised; but still Harriet must be excepted. It was her superior duty.
她对自己非常生气。如果她不能也生弗兰克·丘吉尔的气，那就太可怕了。——至于简·费尔法克斯，她至少可以从目前对她的关心中解脱出来。哈丽特已经够焦虑的了。她不必再为简感到不高兴，简的烦恼和她的健康状况当然有相同的根源，必须同样得到治愈。——她卑微和邪恶的日子已经结束了。——她很快就会康复，幸福，而且繁荣。——艾玛现在可以想象为什么她自己的关注被忽视了。这一发现揭示了许多较小的问题。毫无疑问，这是出于嫉妒。——在简的眼里，她是一个对手；她可能会拒绝任何她可以提供帮助或关心的事情。哈特菲尔德马车里的空气可能是架子，哈特菲尔德储藏室里的葛根一定是毒药。她全都明白了；只要她的思想能够摆脱愤怒情绪的不公正和自私，她承认简·费尔法克斯除了她的应得之外，既不会得到提升，也不会得到幸福。但可怜的哈丽特却是一个如此令人着迷的指控！对其他人几乎没有同情心。艾玛悲伤地担心这第二次失望会比第一次更加严重。考虑到该对象的非常优越的要求，它应该；从它对哈丽特思想的明显更强烈的影响来看，它会产生矜持和自制力。——然而，她必须尽快传达痛苦的真相。韦斯顿先生的临别赠言中有一条保密禁令。 “目前，整个事件完全是一个秘密。先生。 丘吉尔特意强调了这一点，以此表达对他刚刚失去的妻子的尊重。每个人都承认这不过是应有的礼节。”——艾玛答应了；但哈丽特仍是例外。这是她的首要职责。

In spite of her vexation, she could not help feeling it almost ridiculous, that she should have the very same distressing and delicate office to perform by Harriet, which Mrs. Weston had just gone through by herself. The intelligence, which had been so anxiously announced to her, she was now to be anxiously announcing to another. Her heart beat quick on hearing Harriet’s footstep and voice; so, she supposed, had poor Mrs. Weston felt when she was approaching Randalls. Could the event of the disclosure bear an equal resemblance!— But of that, unfortunately, there could be no chance.
尽管她很烦恼，但她不禁感到这几乎是荒谬的，她应该由哈丽特来履行同样令人痛苦和微妙的职责，而韦斯顿夫人刚刚独自经历了这一点。刚才如此焦急地向她宣布的情报，现在她要焦急地向另一个人宣布。听到哈丽特的脚步声和声音，她的心跳得很快。她猜想，当可怜的韦斯顿夫人接近兰德尔斯时，她也有同样的感觉吗？披露的事件是否也有同样的相似之处？——但不幸的是，这不可能有机会。

‘Well, Miss Woodhouse!’ cried Harriet, coming eagerly into the room— ‘is not this the oddest news that ever was?’
“好吧，伍德豪斯小姐！”哈丽特急切地走进房间喊道，“这不是有史以来最奇怪的消息吗？”

‘What news do you mean?’ replied Emma, unable to guess, by look or voice, whether Harriet could indeed have received any hint.
“你指的是什么消息？”艾玛回答道，无论是从表情还是声音，她都无法猜测哈丽特是否真的收到了任何暗示。

‘About Jane Fairfax. Did you ever hear any thing so strange? Oh!—you need not be afraid of owning it to me, for Mr. Weston has told me himself. I met him just now. He told me it was to be a great secret; and, therefore, I should not think of mentioning it to any body but you, but he said you knew it.’
‘关于简·费尔法克斯。你有听过这么奇怪的事吗？哦！——你不必害怕把它归我所有，因为韦斯顿先生亲自告诉我的。我刚刚认识他。他告诉我这是一个天大的秘密。因此，除了你之外，我不应该向任何人提及这件事，但他说你知道这一点。

‘What did Mr. Weston tell you?’—said Emma, still perplexed.
“韦斯顿先生告诉了你什么？”艾玛仍然困惑不解地说。

‘Oh! he told me all about it; that Jane Fairfax and Mr. Frank Churchill are to be married, and that they have been privately engaged to one another this long while. How very odd!’
'哦！他告诉了我这一切；简·费尔法克斯和弗兰克·丘吉尔先生即将结婚，而且他们已经私下订婚很久了。多么奇怪啊！

It was, indeed, so odd; Harriet’s behaviour was so extremely odd, that Emma did not know how to understand it. Her character appeared absolutely changed. She seemed to propose shewing no agitation, or disappointment, or peculiar concern in the discovery. Emma looked at her, quite unable to speak.
确实，这很奇怪。哈丽特的行为非常奇怪，艾玛不知道该如何理解。她的性格似乎完全改变了。她似乎表示对这一发现没有表现出激动、失望或特殊的担忧。艾玛看着她，完全说不出话来。

‘Had you any idea,’ cried Harriet, ‘of his being in love with her?—You, perhaps, might.—You (blushing as she spoke) who can see into every body’s heart; but nobody else—‘
“你知道吗，”哈丽特喊道，“他爱上了她？——你，也许，可能。——你（她说话时脸红了）你能洞察每个人的内心；你知道吗？”但没有其他人——”

‘Upon my word,’ said Emma, ‘I begin to doubt my having any such talent. Can you seriously ask me, Harriet, whether I imagined him attached to another woman at the very time that I was—tacitly, if not openly— encouraging you to give way to your own feelings?—I never had the slightest suspicion, till within the last hour, of Mr. Frank Churchill’s having the least regard for Jane Fairfax. You may be very sure that if I had, I should have cautioned you accordingly.’
“老实说，”艾玛说，“我开始怀疑自己是否有这样的天赋。你能认真地问我吗，哈丽特，当我——心照不宣地，如果不是公开地——鼓励你屈服于自己的感情时，我是否想象过他依恋着另一个女人？——我从来没有丝毫怀疑过，直到内心深处。弗兰克·丘吉尔先生对简·费尔法克斯最不尊重的最后一个小时。你可能非常确定，如果我有的话，我应该相应地警告你。

‘Me!’ cried Harriet, colouring, and astonished. ‘Why should you caution me?—You do not think I care about Mr. Frank Churchill.’
“我！”哈丽雅特惊讶地喊道，脸色涨红。 “你为什么要警告我？——你以为我不关心弗兰克·丘吉尔先生。”

‘I am delighted to hear you speak so stoutly on the subject,’ replied Emma, smiling; ‘but you do not mean to deny that there was a time—and not very distant either—when you gave me reason to understand that you did care about him?’
“我很高兴听到你在这个问题上如此坚定地讲话，”艾玛微笑着回答道。 “但你并不是想否认，曾经有一段时间——而且也不是很遥远——你让我有理由明白你确实关心他？”

‘Him!—never, never. Dear Miss Woodhouse, how could you so mistake me?’ turning away distressed.
“他！——从来没有，从来没有。”亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，你怎么能这么误会我呢？”心疼地转过身去。

‘Harriet!’ cried Emma, after a moment’s pause—‘What do you mean?— Good Heaven! what do you mean?—Mistake you!—Am I to suppose then?—‘
“哈丽特！”艾玛停顿了一会儿，喊道，“你这是什么意思？——天哪！你这是什么意思？——你误会了！——那么我会这么认为吗？——”

She could not speak another word.—Her voice was lost; and she sat down, waiting in great terror till Harriet should answer.
她再也说不出一句话了。——她的声音消失了；她坐下来，惊恐地等待着哈丽特回答。

Harriet, who was standing at some distance, and with face turned from her, did not immediately say any thing; and when she did speak, it was in a voice nearly as agitated as Emma’s.
哈丽雅特站在远处，背对着她，没有立即说什么。当她开口说话时，她的声音几乎和艾玛一样激动。

‘I should not have thought it possible,’ she began, ‘that you could have misunderstood me! I know we agreed never to name him— but considering how infinitely superior he is to every body else, I should not have thought it possible that I could be supposed to mean any other person. Mr. Frank Churchill, indeed! I do not know who would ever look at him in the company of the other. I hope I have a better taste than to think of Mr. Frank Churchill, who is like nobody by his side. And that you should have been so mistaken, is amazing!—I am sure, but for believing that you entirely approved and meant to encourage me in my attachment, I should have considered it at first too great a presumption almost, to dare to think of him. At first, if you had not told me that more wonderful things had happened; that there had been matches of greater disparity (those were your very words);— I should not have dared to give way to—I should not have thought it possible—But if you, who had been always acquainted with him—‘
“我不应该想到，”她开始说道，“你可能会误解我！我知道我们同意永远不提及他的名字——但考虑到他比其他人都优越得多，我不应该认为我可能指的是任何其他人。确实是弗兰克·丘吉尔先生！我不知道谁会在另一个人的陪伴下看着他。我希望我比想象弗兰克·丘吉尔先生有更好的品味，他身边没有人喜欢他。你竟然错得如此离谱，太令人惊讶了！——我确信，但因为相信你完全赞同并有意鼓励我的依恋，我一开始应该认为这是一个太大的假设，不敢去想他的。当初，如果你没有告诉我，更奇妙的事情发生了；曾经有过差距更大的比赛（这就是你的原话）；——我本来不敢让步——我不应该认为这是可能的——但是如果你，这个一直很熟悉他的人——”

‘Harriet!’ cried Emma, collecting herself resolutely—‘Let us understand each other now, without the possibility of farther mistake. Are you speaking of—Mr. Knightley?’
“哈丽特！”艾玛坚决地镇定下来，喊道，“我们现在就互相理解吧，不要再犯错误了。”你是在说——先生吗？奈特利？

‘To be sure I am. I never could have an idea of any body else— and so I thought you knew. When we talked about him, it was as clear as possible.’
” “当然我是。我永远无法了解其他人的身体——所以我以为你知道。当我们谈论他时，一切都尽可能清楚。

‘Not quite,’ returned Emma, with forced calmness, ‘for all that you then said, appeared to me to relate to a different person. I could almost assert that you had named Mr. Frank Churchill. I am sure the service Mr. Frank Churchill had rendered you, in protecting you from the gipsies, was spoken of.’
“不完全是，”艾玛强行镇静地回答道，“因为你当时所说的一切，在我看来都与另一个人有关。我几乎可以断言您指定了弗兰克·丘吉尔先生。我相信弗兰克·丘吉尔先生为您提供的帮助，保护您免受吉卜赛人的侵害，是被提及的。

‘Oh! Miss Woodhouse, how you do forget!’
'哦！伍德豪斯小姐，你怎么忘了！”

‘My dear Harriet, I perfectly remember the substance of what I said on the occasion. I told you that I did not wonder at your attachment; that considering the service he had rendered you, it was extremely natural:—and you agreed to it, expressing yourself very warmly as to your sense of that service, and mentioning even what your sensations had been in seeing him come forward to your rescue.—The impression of it is strong on my memory.’
“我亲爱的哈里特，我完全记得我当时所说的话的实质内容。我告诉过你，我并不奇怪你的执着；考虑到他为你提供的服务，这是非常自然的：——你同意了，非常热情地表达了你对这项服务的感受，甚至提到了看到他挺身而出救援你时的感受。 ——它给我留下了深刻的印象。

‘Oh, dear,’ cried Harriet, ‘now I recollect what you mean; but I was thinking of something very different at the time. It was not the gipsies—it was not Mr. Frank Churchill that I meant. No! (with some elevation) I was thinking of a much more precious circumstance— of Mr. Knightley’s coming and asking me to dance, when Mr. Elton would not stand up with me; and when there was no other partner in the room. That was the kind action; that was the noble benevolence and generosity; that was the service which made me begin to feel how superior he was to every other being upon earth.’
“哦，亲爱的，”哈丽特喊道，“现在我想起来你的意思了；但当时我在想一些非常不同的事情。我指的不是吉普赛人——也不是弗兰克·丘吉尔先生。不！ （有些振奋）我想到了一个更珍贵的情况——奈特利先生来邀请我跳舞，而埃尔顿先生却不愿意和我站在一起；当房间里没有其他伙伴时。这是善意的举动；这就是高尚的仁慈和慷慨；正是这种服务让我开始感觉到他比地球上的其他人有多么优越。

‘Good God!’ cried Emma, ‘this has been a most unfortunate— most deplorable mistake!—What is to be done?’
“天哪！”艾玛喊道，“这是一个最不幸、最可悲的错误！——该怎么办？”

‘You would not have encouraged me, then, if you had understood me? At least, however, I cannot be worse off than I should have been, if the other had been the person; and now—it is possible—‘
“那么，如果你理解我的话，你就不会鼓励我了？然而，至少，如果对方是那个人的话，我的处境不会比我应该得到的更糟。现在——有可能——”

She paused a few moments. Emma could not speak.
她停顿了一会儿。艾玛说不出话来。

‘I do not wonder, Miss Woodhouse,’ she resumed, ‘that you should feel a great difference between the two, as to me or as to any body. You must think one five hundred million times more above me than the other. But I hope, Miss Woodhouse, that supposing—that if— strange as it may appear—. But you know they were your own words, that more wonderful things had happened, matches of greater disparity had taken place than between Mr. Frank Churchill and me; and, therefore, it seems as if such a thing even as this, may have occurred before— and if I should be so fortunate, beyond expression, as to— if Mr. Knightley should really—if he does not mind the disparity, I hope, dear Miss Woodhouse, you will not set yourself against it, and try to put difficulties in the way. But you are too good for that, I am sure.’
“我并不奇怪，伍德豪斯小姐，”她继续说道，“无论对我还是对任何人来说，你都会感受到两者之间的巨大差异。你的想法一定比我高出五亿倍。但我希望，伍德豪斯小姐，假设——假设——尽管看起来很奇怪——。但你知道这是你自己的话，发生了比弗兰克·丘吉尔先生和我之间更奇妙的事情，发生了更大悬殊的比赛；因此，似乎这样的事情以前可能发生过——如果我如此幸运，无法形容——如果奈特利先生真的如此——如果他不介意这种差异，我希望，亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，你不会反对它，并试图给它带来困难。但我确信你太优秀了。”

Harriet was standing at one of the windows. Emma turned round to look at her in consternation, and hastily said,
哈丽特站在一扇窗户前。艾玛转身惊愕地看着她，急忙说道：

‘Have you any idea of Mr. Knightley’s returning your affection?’
“你知道奈特利先生会回报你的感情吗？”

‘Yes,’ replied Harriet modestly, but not fearfully—‘I must say that I have.’
“是的，”哈丽雅特谦虚地回答，但并不害怕——“我必须说我有。”

Emma’s eyes were instantly withdrawn; and she sat silently meditating, in a fixed attitude, for a few minutes. A few minutes were sufficient for making her acquainted with her own heart. A mind like hers, once opening to suspicion, made rapid progress. She touched— she admitted—she acknowledged the whole truth. Why was it so much worse that Harriet should be in love with Mr. Knightley, than with Frank Churchill? Why was the evil so dreadfully increased by Harriet’s having some hope of a return? It darted through her, with the speed of an arrow, that Mr. Knightley must marry no one but herself!
艾玛的目光立刻收回来。她以一种固定的态度静静地坐了几分钟。几分钟的时间，足以让她熟悉自己的内心。像她这样的头脑，一旦受到怀疑，就会进步很快。她感动了——她承认——她承认了全部真相。为什么哈丽特爱上奈特利先生比爱上弗兰克·丘吉尔更糟糕？为什么哈丽特有回归的希望，邪恶却如此可怕地增加？她以箭一般的速度猛然意识到，奈特利先生除了她自己以外，不得与任何人结婚！

Her own conduct, as well as her own heart, was before her in the same few minutes. She saw it all with a clearness which had never blessed her before. How improperly had she been acting by Harriet! How inconsiderate, how indelicate, how irrational, how unfeeling had been her conduct! What blindness, what madness, had led her on! It struck her with dreadful force, and she was ready to give it every bad name in the world. Some portion of respect for herself, however, in spite of all these demerits— some concern for her own appearance, and a strong sense of justice by Harriet—(there would be no need of compassion to the girl who believed herself loved by Mr. Knightley—but justice required that she should not be made unhappy by any coldness now,) gave Emma the resolution to sit and endure farther with calmness, with even apparent kindness.—For her own advantage indeed, it was fit that the utmost extent of Harriet’s hopes should be enquired into; and Harriet had done nothing to forfeit the regard and interest which had been so voluntarily formed and maintained—or to deserve to be slighted by the person, whose counsels had never led her right.— Rousing from reflection, therefore, and subduing her emotion, she turned to Harriet again, and, in a more inviting accent, renewed the conversation; for as to the subject which had first introduced it, the wonderful story of Jane Fairfax, that was quite sunk and lost.— Neither of them thought but of Mr. Knightley and themselves.
在这几分钟里，她自己的行为，以及她自己的心，都摆在了她的面前。她以前所未有的清晰视角看到了这一切。哈丽特的行为是多么不恰当啊！她的行为是多么不体贴、多么不体贴、多么不理智、多么绝情啊！她是多么盲目、多么疯狂啊！它以可怕的力量击中了她，她准备给它骂上世界上每一个坏名声。然而，尽管有所有这些缺点——对自己外表的一些关心，以及哈丽特强烈的正义感——（对于那个相信自己受到先生爱的女孩来说，不需要同情）。奈特利——但正义要求她现在不应该因为任何寒冷而感到不高兴，）让爱玛决定坐下来，平静地、甚至表面上表现出善意地再忍耐一会儿。——确实，为了她自己的利益，尽可能地应该询问哈丽特的希望；哈丽特并没有做任何事来放弃她自愿形成和维持的尊重和兴趣，或者值得被这个人轻视，而这个人的建议从来没有引导她走向正确的方向。她又转向哈丽特，用一种更诱人的口音重新开始谈话。因为至于最初介绍它的主题，简·费尔法克斯的精彩故事，那是完全沉没和迷失的。——他们除了奈特利先生和他们自己之外，都没有想到。

Harriet, who had been standing in no unhappy reverie, was yet very glad to be called from it, by the now encouraging manner of such a judge, and such a friend as Miss Woodhouse, and only wanted invitation, to give the history of her hopes with great, though trembling delight.—Emma’s tremblings as she asked, and as she listened, were better concealed than Harriet’s, but they were not less. Her voice was not unsteady; but her mind was in all the perturbation that such a development of self, such a burst of threatening evil, such a confusion of sudden and perplexing emotions, must create.— She listened with much inward suffering, but with great outward patience, to Harriet’s detail.—Methodical, or well arranged, or very well delivered, it could not be expected to be; but it contained, when separated from all the feebleness and tautology of the narration, a substance to sink her spirit— especially with the corroborating circumstances, which her own memory brought in favour of Mr. Knightley’s most improved opinion of Harriet.
哈丽特一直站在没有不愉快的遐想中，但很高兴被从这样的法官和伍德豪斯小姐这样的朋友现在令人鼓舞的态度中召唤出来，她只想要邀请，讲述她的历史带着巨大的、虽然颤抖的喜悦的希望。——艾玛在询问和倾听时的颤抖比哈丽特的颤抖更好地隐藏，但也不少。她的声音并不不稳定；但她的内心却充满了不安，这种自我的发展，这种具有威胁性的邪恶的爆发，这种突然而令人困惑的情绪的混乱，一定会造成。——她内心非常痛苦，但表面上却非常耐心地听着哈丽特的讲话。细节。——有条不紊，或安排良好，或交付得很好，这是不可能的；但是，当与叙述中所有的无力和同义反复分开时，它包含了一种使她精神沮丧的内容——尤其是在她自己的记忆中，她自己的记忆使奈特利先生对哈丽特的看法有了很大的改善。

Harriet had been conscious of a difference in his behaviour ever since those two decisive dances.—Emma knew that he had, on that occasion, found her much superior to his expectation. From that evening, or at least from the time of Miss Woodhouse’s encouraging her to think of him, Harriet had begun to be sensible of his talking to her much more than he had been used to do, and of his having indeed quite a different manner towards her; a manner of kindness and sweetness!—Latterly she had been more and more aware of it. When they had been all walking together, he had so often come and walked by her, and talked so very delightfully!—He seemed to want to be acquainted with her. Emma knew it to have been very much the case. She had often observed the change, to almost the same extent.— Harriet repeated expressions of approbation and praise from him— and Emma felt them to be in the closest agreement with what she had known of his opinion of Harriet. He praised her for being without art or affectation, for having simple, honest, generous, feelings.— She knew that he saw such recommendations in Harriet; he had dwelt on them to her more than once.—Much that lived in Harriet’s memory, many little particulars of the notice she had received from him, a look, a speech, a removal from one chair to another, a compliment implied, a preference inferred, had been unnoticed, because unsuspected, by Emma. Circumstances that might swell to half an hour’s relation, and contained multiplied proofs to her who had seen them, had passed undiscerned by her who now heard them; but the two latest occurrences to be mentioned, the two of strongest promise to Harriet, were not without some degree of witness from Emma herself.—The first, was his walking with her apart from the others, in the lime-walk at Donwell, where they had been walking some time before Emma came, and he had taken pains (as she was convinced) to draw her from the rest to himself—and at first, he had talked to her in a more particular way than he had ever done before, in a very particular way indeed!—(Harriet could not recall it without a blush.) He seemed to be almost asking her, whether her affections were engaged.— But as soon as she (Miss Woodhouse) appeared likely to join them, he changed the subject, and began talking about farming:— The second, was his having sat talking with her nearly half an hour before Emma came back from her visit, the very last morning of his being at Hartfield—though, when he first came in, he had said that he could not stay five minutes—and his having told her, during their conversation, that though he must go to London, it was very much against his inclination that he left home at all, which was much more (as Emma felt) than he had acknowledged to her. The superior degree of confidence towards Harriet, which this one article marked, gave her severe pain.
自从那两场决定性的舞蹈之后，哈丽雅特就意识到他的行为有所不同。——艾玛知道，那一次，他发现她比他的预期要优秀得多。从那天晚上开始，或者至少从伍德豪斯小姐鼓励她想起他的时候起，哈丽特就开始意识到他和她说话的次数比以前多得多，而且他的态度确实很不一样。对她；一种仁慈和甜蜜！——最近她越来越意识到这一点。他们一起散步的时候，他经常从她身边走过，说话也很愉快！——他似乎很想认识她。艾玛知道情况确实如此。她经常观察到这种变化，而且程度几乎相同。——哈丽特不断地表达出他对哈丽特的认可和赞扬——艾玛觉得这些与她所知道的他对哈丽特的看法最为一致。他称赞她没有艺术或矫揉造作，有简单、诚实、慷慨、感情。——她知道他在哈丽特身上看到了这样的建议；他不止一次地向她讲述过这些事。——很多事情都活在哈丽特的记忆中，她从他那里收到的通知的许多细节，一个眼神，一次演讲，从一张椅子移到另一张椅子，暗示的恭维，艾玛没有注意到，因为没有怀疑，推断出的偏好。那些可能会持续半小时的情况，对于曾经亲眼目睹过的她来说，包含了多重证据，而现在听到这些事情的她却没有察觉。但是最近要提到的两件事，对哈丽特来说最有希望的两件事，在某种程度上并不是没有艾玛本人的见证。——第一个，是他和她分开散步，在唐威尔的石灰石小道上，在艾玛来之前他们已经在那里散步了一段时间，他煞费苦心（正如她确信的那样）把她从其他地方拉出来对他自己——一开始，他用一种比以前更特别的方式跟她说话，确实是以一种非常特别的方式！——（哈丽特不脸红地回忆起来。）他似乎几乎是在问她，无论她的感情是否投入。——但当她（伍德豪斯小姐）似乎有可能加入他们时，他就改变了话题，开始谈论农业：——第二，是他在近半小时前与她坐在一起谈话艾玛从她的拜访中回来，那是他在哈特菲尔德的最后一个早晨——尽管，当他第一次进来时，他说过他不能停留五分钟——而且他在他们的谈话中告诉她，尽管他必须去伦敦的时候，他完全不愿意离开家，这比他向她承认的要严重得多（正如艾玛的感受）。这篇文章所体现的对哈丽特的高度信任给她带来了剧烈的痛苦。

On the subject of the first of the two circumstances, she did, after a little reflection, venture the following question. ‘Might he not?—Is not it possible, that when enquiring, as you thought, into the state of your affections, he might be alluding to Mr. Martin— he might have Mr. Martin’s interest in view? But Harriet rejected the suspicion with spirit.
关于这两种情况中的第一种情况，经过一番思考后，她确实提出了以下问题。 “他可能不会吗？——有没有可能，正如你所想的那样，当询问你的感情状况时，他可能会暗指马丁先生——他可能会考虑到马丁先生的兴趣？”但哈丽特坚决地拒绝了这一怀疑。

‘Mr. Martin! No indeed!—There was not a hint of Mr. Martin. I hope I know better now, than to care for Mr. Martin, or to be suspected of it.’
'先生。马丁！确实没有！——没有马丁先生的影子。我希望我现在比照顾马丁先生更清楚，或者被怀疑。

When Harriet had closed her evidence, she appealed to her dear Miss Woodhouse, to say whether she had not good ground for hope.
当哈丽雅特结束了她的证据后，她向她亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐求助，询问她是否没有充分的理由抱有希望。

‘I never should have presumed to think of it at first,’ said she, ‘but for you. You told me to observe him carefully, and let his behaviour be the rule of mine—and so I have. But now I seem to feel that I may deserve him; and that if he does chuse me, it will not be any thing so very wonderful.’
“如果不是为了你，我一开始就不应该想到这个，”她说。你告诉我要仔细观察他，让他的行为成为我的规则——我也这么做了。但现在我似乎觉得我配得上他；如果他真的选择了我，那就不会是一件多么美妙的事情了。

The bitter feelings occasioned by this speech, the many bitter feelings, made the utmost exertion necessary on Emma’s side, to enable her to say on reply,
这段话所引起的苦涩的感觉，许多苦涩的感觉，使爱玛方面必须尽最大的努力，以便她能够在回答时说：

‘Harriet, I will only venture to declare, that Mr. Knightley is the last man in the world, who would intentionally give any woman the idea of his feeling for her more than he really does.’
“哈丽特，我只想大胆地宣布，奈特利先生是世界上最后一个故意让任何女人更多地感受到他对她的感情的男人。”

Harriet seemed ready to worship her friend for a sentence so satisfactory; and Emma was only saved from raptures and fondness, which at that moment would have been dreadful penance, by the sound of her father’s footsteps. He was coming through the hall. Harriet was too much agitated to encounter him. ‘She could not compose herself— Mr. Woodhouse would be alarmed—she had better go;’—with most ready encouragement from her friend, therefore, she passed off through another door—and the moment she was gone, this was the spontaneous burst of Emma’s feelings: ‘Oh God! that I had never seen her!’
哈丽特似乎已经准备好崇拜她的朋友，因为她的朋友说出了如此令人满意的一句话。爱玛只有听到父亲的脚步声，才从狂喜和喜爱中解脱出来，而这在当时可能是可怕的忏悔。他正穿过大厅。哈丽特太激动了，不敢见到他。 “她无法平静下来——伍德豪斯先生会惊慌的——她最好走；”——因此，在她朋友的大力鼓励下，她从另一扇门走了出去——在她离开的那一刻，这是自发的爆发艾玛的感受：‘天啊！我从来没有见过她！

The rest of the day, the following night, were hardly enough for her thoughts.—She was bewildered amidst the confusion of all that had rushed on her within the last few hours. Every moment had brought a fresh surprize; and every surprize must be matter of humiliation to her.—How to understand it all! How to understand the deceptions she had been thus practising on herself, and living under!—The blunders, the blindness of her own head and heart!—she sat still, she walked about, she tried her own room, she tried the shrubbery—in every place, every posture, she perceived that she had acted most weakly; that she had been imposed on by others in a most mortifying degree; that she had been imposing on herself in a degree yet more mortifying; that she was wretched, and should probably find this day but the beginning of wretchedness.
第二天晚上，这一天剩下的时间，几乎不足以让她思考。——在过去的几个小时里，她对所有发生在她身上的事情感到困惑。每一刻都带来新鲜的惊喜；每一个惊喜对她来说都必定是一种羞辱。——如何理解这一切！如何理解她对自己如此实行的欺骗，以及生活在其中的欺骗！——她自己的错误，她自己的头脑和心灵的盲目！——她静静地坐着，她走来走去，她尝试了自己的房间，她尝试了灌木丛——每一个地方，每一个姿势，她都觉得自己表现得最软弱。她被别人强加到了最令人羞辱的程度；她对自己的要求在某种程度上更加令人羞愧。她很不幸，也许这一天只是不幸的开始。

To understand, thoroughly understand her own heart, was the first endeavour. To that point went every leisure moment which her father’s claims on her allowed, and every moment of involuntary absence of mind.
明白，彻底明白自己的心，是第一个努力。到那时，她父亲对她的要求所允许的每一个休闲时刻，以及每一个不由自主的心不在焉的时刻都消失了。

How long had Mr. Knightley been so dear to her, as every feeling declared him now to be? When had his influence, such influence begun?— When had he succeeded to that place in her affection, which Frank Churchill had once, for a short period, occupied?—She looked back; she compared the two—compared them, as they had always stood in her estimation, from the time of the latter’s becoming known to her— and as they must at any time have been compared by her, had it— oh! had it, by any blessed felicity, occurred to her, to institute the comparison.—She saw that there never had been a time when she did not consider Mr. Knightley as infinitely the superior, or when his regard for her had not been infinitely the most dear. She saw, that in persuading herself, in fancying, in acting to the contrary, she had been entirely under a delusion, totally ignorant of her own heart—and, in short, that she had never really cared for Frank Churchill at all!
奈特利先生对她如此亲爱已经多久了，就像现在所有的感觉都表明他那样？他的影响力，这样的影响力是从什么时候开始的？——他什么时候在她的感情中继承了弗兰克·丘吉尔曾经短暂占据过的地位？她比较了两者——比较它们，因为从她认识后者之时起，它们就一直是她所认为的——并且正如她在任何时候都必须比较它们一样，如果有的话——哦！她发现，她从来没有不认为奈特利先生是无限优越的，或者说，他对她的尊重从来都不是无限的。最亲爱的。她发现，在说服自己、幻想、反其道而行之时，她完全陷入了幻觉，完全不了解自己的内心——简而言之，她根本就没有真正关心过弗兰克·丘吉尔！

This was the conclusion of the first series of reflection. This was the knowledge of herself, on the first question of inquiry, which she reached; and without being long in reaching it.— She was most sorrowfully indignant; ashamed of every sensation but the one revealed to her—her affection for Mr. Knightley.— Every other part of her mind was disgusting.
这是第一系列反思的结论。这是她对自己提出的第一个问题的了解。没过多久就达到了这一点。——她感到非常悲伤和愤怒。她对每一种感觉都感到羞耻，除了向她透露的那一种——她对奈特利先生的感情——她头脑的其他部分都令人厌恶。

With insufferable vanity had she believed herself in the secret of every body’s feelings; with unpardonable arrogance proposed to arrange every body’s destiny. She was proved to have been universally mistaken; and she had not quite done nothing—for she had done mischief. She had brought evil on Harriet, on herself, and she too much feared, on Mr. Knightley.—Were this most unequal of all connexions to take place, on her must rest all the reproach of having given it a beginning; for his attachment, she must believe to be produced only by a consciousness of Harriet’s;—and even were this not the case, he would never have known Harriet at all but for her folly.
带着难以忍受的虚荣心，她相信自己知道每个人的感情的秘密。以不可饶恕的傲慢提议安排每个人的命运。事实证明她全都错了。她并不是什么都没做——因为她做了恶作剧。她给哈丽特、给她自己带来了邪恶，而她也太害怕了，给奈特利先生。——如果这种最不平等的关系发生，所有的责备都必须归到她身上；因为她是这一切的始作俑者。对于他的依恋，她一定相信只是由哈丽特的意识产生的；即使不是这种情况，如果不是因为她的愚蠢，他也根本不会认识哈丽特。

Mr. Knightley and Harriet Smith!—It was a union to distance every wonder of the kind.—The attachment of Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax became commonplace, threadbare, stale in the comparison, exciting no surprize, presenting no disparity, affording nothing to be said or thought.—Mr. Knightley and Harriet Smith!—Such an elevation on her side! Such a debasement on his! It was horrible to Emma to think how it must sink him in the general opinion, to foresee the smiles, the sneers, the merriment it would prompt at his expense; the mortification and disdain of his brother, the thousand inconveniences to himself.—Could it be?—No; it was impossible. And yet it was far, very far, from impossible.—Was it a new circumstance for a man of first-rate abilities to be captivated by very inferior powers? Was it new for one, perhaps too busy to seek, to be the prize of a girl who would seek him?—Was it new for any thing in this world to be unequal, inconsistent, incongruous—or for chance and circumstance (as second causes) to direct the human fate?
奈特利先生和哈丽雅特·史密斯！——这是一个将所有同类奇迹拉开距离的结合。——弗兰克·丘吉尔和简·费尔法克斯的依恋在比较中变得司空见惯、陈腐乏味、陈旧，没有令人兴奋的地方，没有表现出任何差异，没有提供任何东西。被说出来或被认为。——先生。奈特利和哈丽特·史密斯！——她这边的高度如此之高！这是对他的极大贬低！爱玛一想到这件事一定会令他在公众心目中的地位下降，预见到这会引发人们对他的微笑、冷笑和欢乐，她感到很可怕；他兄弟的屈辱和蔑视，以及他自己的千百个不便。——可能吗？这是不可能的。然而，这远非不可能。——一个拥有一流能力的人被非常低劣的力量所迷惑，这是一种新情况吗？对于一个可能太忙而无暇去寻找的人来说，成为一个想要寻找他的女孩的奖品是新鲜的吗？——对于这个世界上任何不平等、不一致、不协调的事物来说，这是新鲜的吗？或者对于机会和环境（如第二个），这是新鲜的吗？原因）来指导人类的命运？

Oh! had she never brought Harriet forward! Had she left her where she ought, and where he had told her she ought!—Had she not, with a folly which no tongue could express, prevented her marrying the unexceptionable young man who would have made her happy and respectable in the line of life to which she ought to belong— all would have been safe; none of this dreadful sequel would have been.
哦！如果她从来没有带哈丽特来的话！如果她把她留在了她应该去的地方，以及他告诉她她应该去的地方！——如果她没有以一种无法用语言表达的愚蠢，阻止她嫁给一个平凡的年轻人，他会让她幸福并受人尊敬。她应该属于的生活——一切都会安全；这些可怕的续集都不会发生。

How Harriet could ever have had the presumption to raise her thoughts to Mr. Knightley!—How she could dare to fancy herself the chosen of such a man till actually assured of it!— But Harriet was less humble, had fewer scruples than formerly.— Her inferiority, whether of mind or situation, seemed little felt.— She had seemed more sensible of Mr. Elton’s being to stoop in marrying her, than she now seemed of Mr. Knightley’s.— Alas! was not that her own doing too? Who had been at pains to give Harriet notions of self-consequence but herself?—Who but herself had taught her, that she was to elevate herself if possible, and that her claims were great to a high worldly establishment?— If Harriet, from being humble, were grown vain, it was her doing too.
哈丽特怎么可能有胆量向奈特利先生提出她的想法！——她怎么敢想象自己被这样一个男人选中，直到真正确信这一点！——但哈丽特不像以前那么谦虚，更少顾忌。 ——无论是思想上还是处境上，她似乎都没有感觉到自卑。——她以前似乎对埃尔顿先生屈尊娶她比对奈特利先生更明智。——唉！这不也是她自己做的吗？除了她自己之外，还有谁曾煞费苦心地向哈丽特灌输自我后果的观念？——除了她自己之外，还有谁教导过她，如果可能的话，她应该提升自己，她的要求对世俗的高层机构来说是伟大的？——如果哈丽特，从谦虚，变得虚荣，也是她造成的。

Chapter XII
第十二章

Till now that she was threatened with its loss, Emma had never known how much of her happiness depended on being first with Mr. Knightley, first in interest and affection.—Satisfied that it was so, and feeling it her due, she had enjoyed it without reflection; and only in the dread of being supplanted, found how inexpressibly important it had been.—Long, very long, she felt she had been first; for, having no female connexions of his own, there had been only Isabella whose claims could be compared with hers, and she had always known exactly how far he loved and esteemed Isabella. She had herself been first with him for many years past. She had not deserved it; she had often been negligent or perverse, slighting his advice, or even wilfully opposing him, insensible of half his merits, and quarrelling with him because he would not acknowledge her false and insolent estimate of her own—but still, from family attachment and habit, and thorough excellence of mind, he had loved her, and watched over her from a girl, with an endeavour to improve her, and an anxiety for her doing right, which no other creature had at all shared. In spite of all her faults, she knew she was dear to him; might she not say, very dear?— When the suggestions of hope, however, which must follow here, presented themselves, she could not presume to indulge them. Harriet Smith might think herself not unworthy of being peculiarly, exclusively, passionately loved by Mr. Knightley. She could not. She could not flatter herself with any idea of blindness in his attachment to her. She had received a very recent proof of its impartiality.— How shocked had he been by her behaviour to Miss Bates! How directly, how strongly had he expressed himself to her on the subject!—Not too strongly for the offence—but far, far too strongly to issue from any feeling softer than upright justice and clear-sighted goodwill.— She had no hope, nothing to deserve the name of hope, that he could have that sort of affection for herself which was now in question; but there was a hope (at times a slight one, at times much stronger,) that Harriet might have deceived herself, and be overrating his regard for her.—Wish it she must, for his sake—be the consequence nothing to herself, but his remaining single all his life. Could she be secure of that, indeed, of his never marrying at all, she believed she should be perfectly satisfied.—Let him but continue the same Mr. Knightley to her and her father, the same Mr. Knightley to all the world; let Donwell and Hartfield lose none of their precious intercourse of friendship and confidence, and her peace would be fully secured.—Marriage, in fact, would not do for her. It would be incompatible with what she owed to her father, and with what she felt for him. Nothing should separate her from her father. She would not marry, even if she were asked by Mr. Knightley.
直到现在她受到失去它的威胁，艾玛才知道她的幸福在多大程度上取决于首先与奈特利先生在一起，首先是兴趣和感情。——她对事实如此感到满意，并感到这是她应得的，她享受了没有反思；只有在害怕被取代的时候，才发现它有多么难以言表的重要。——很长一段时间，很长一段时间，她觉得自己一直是第一；因为他自己没有女性关系，只有伊莎贝拉的主张可以与她的主张相提并论，而她一直清楚地知道他对伊莎贝拉有多爱和尊重。多年来，她一直是他的第一位。她不该受这样的惩罚。她常常疏忽或任性，轻视他的建议，甚至故意反对他，对他的一半优点都无动于衷，并因为他不承认她对自己的错误和无礼的评价而与他争吵——但仍然是出于家庭依恋和习惯他有着彻底的优秀思想，他爱她，从一个女孩开始就照顾她，努力改善她，并担心她做正确的事，这是其他生物所没有的。尽管她有种种缺点，但她知道她对他很亲爱。她难道不会说，亲爱的吗？——然而，当随之而来的希望的暗示出现时，她不敢放纵它们。哈丽特·史密斯可能认为自己值得奈特利先生特别、专一、热烈的爱。她不能。她无法相信他对她的依恋是盲目的。她最近收到了一份公正性证明。——她对贝茨小姐的行为让他感到多么震惊！他在这个问题上向她表达得多么直接、多么强烈！——对于冒犯来说，不算太强烈——但太过强烈，无法从任何比正直的正义和清晰的善意更柔和的感觉中发出。——她没有希望，没有什么配得上希望之名，希望他能拥有那种希望。对自己的感情现在受到质疑；但有一种希望（有时微乎其微，有时更强烈），哈丽特可能欺骗了自己，高估了他对她的重视。——希望她一定，为了他——对她自己没有任何影响，但他一生仍单身。事实上，如果她确信他永远不会结婚，她相信她应该完全满意。——让他继续对她和她的父亲一样的奈特利先生，对全世界一样的奈特利先生；让唐威尔和哈特菲尔德不失去他们宝贵的友谊和信任，她的平静就会完全得到保障。——事实上，婚姻对她来说并不合适。这与她对父亲的亏欠以及她对父亲的感情是不相容的。没有什么可以将她与她的父亲分开。即使奈特利先生向她求婚，她也不会结婚。

It must be her ardent wish that Harriet might be disappointed; and she hoped, that when able to see them together again, she might at least be able to ascertain what the chances for it were.—She should see them henceforward with the closest observance; and wretchedly as she had hitherto misunderstood even those she was watching, she did not know how to admit that she could be blinded here.— He was expected back every day. The power of observation would be soon given—frightfully soon it appeared when her thoughts were in one course. In the meanwhile, she resolved against seeing Harriet.— It would do neither of them good, it would do the subject no good, to be talking of it farther.—She was resolved not to be convinced, as long as she could doubt, and yet had no authority for opposing Harriet’s confidence. To talk would be only to irritate.—She wrote to her, therefore, kindly, but decisively, to beg that she would not, at present, come to Hartfield; acknowledging it to be her conviction, that all farther confidential discussion of one topic had better be avoided; and hoping, that if a few days were allowed to pass before they met again, except in the company of others—she objected only to a tete-a-tete—they might be able to act as if they had forgotten the conversation of yesterday.—Harriet submitted, and approved, and was grateful.
她一定热切地希望哈丽特会失望；她希望，当能够再次见到他们在一起时，她至少能够确定他们在一起的机会是什么。——从今往后，她应该以最严格的遵守来见到他们；她希望，当她再次看到他们在一起时，她至少能够确定他们在一起的机会是什么。可悲的是，到目前为止，她甚至误解了她正在观察的那些人，她不知道如何承认她可能会在这里失明。——每天都盼着他回来。观察力很快就会被赋予——可怕的是，当她的思想集中在一个方向上时，这种能力很快就会出现。与此同时，她决定不再去见哈丽特。——进一步讨论这件事对他们俩都没有好处，对这个话题也没有好处。——只要她还能怀疑，她就决定不被说服，但没有权力反对哈丽特的信任。说话只会激怒她。——因此，她亲切而果断地写信给她，恳求她目前不要来哈特菲尔德；因为她不想去哈特菲尔德。承认她的信念是，最好避免对某一主题进行所有进一步的秘密讨论；并希望，如果允许几天后他们再次见面，除了在其他人的陪伴下——她只反对面对面的交谈——他们也许能够表现得好像他们已经忘记了昨天的谈话……哈丽特提交并批准了，并且很感激。

This point was just arranged, when a visitor arrived to tear Emma’s thoughts a little from the one subject which had engrossed them, sleeping or waking, the last twenty-four hours—Mrs. Weston, who had been calling on her daughter-in-law elect, and took Hartfield in her way home, almost as much in duty to Emma as in pleasure to herself, to relate all the particulars of so interesting an interview.
这一刻刚刚安排好，这时一位来访者到来，将艾玛的思绪从过去二十四小时里无论是睡着还是醒着都全神贯注的一个话题上转移开来——艾玛太太。韦斯顿一直在拜访她的当选儿媳，她带着哈特菲尔德回家，几乎既出于对艾玛的责任，又出于对自己的快乐，讲述了这次如此有趣的采访的所有细节。

Mr. Weston had accompanied her to Mrs. Bates’s, and gone through his share of this essential attention most handsomely; but she having then induced Miss Fairfax to join her in an airing, was now returned with much more to say, and much more to say with satisfaction, than a quarter of an hour spent in Mrs. Bates’s parlour, with all the encumbrance of awkward feelings, could have afforded.
韦斯顿先生陪她去了贝茨夫人家，并且非常愉快地享受了他那份重要的关注。但她随后说服了费尔法克斯小姐加入她的广播，现在回来时有更多的话要说，更多的是满意的话，而不是在贝茨夫人的客厅里度过了一刻钟，带着所有尴尬的负担。感情，本来可以承受。

A little curiosity Emma had; and she made the most of it while her friend related. Mrs. Weston had set off to pay the visit in a good deal of agitation herself; and in the first place had wished not to go at all at present, to be allowed merely to write to Miss Fairfax instead, and to defer this ceremonious call till a little time had passed, and Mr. Churchill could be reconciled to the engagement’s becoming known; as, considering every thing, she thought such a visit could not be paid without leading to reports:— but Mr. Weston had thought differently; he was extremely anxious to shew his approbation to Miss Fairfax and her family, and did not conceive that any suspicion could be excited by it; or if it were, that it would be of any consequence; for ‘such things,’ he observed, ‘always got about.’ Emma smiled, and felt that Mr. Weston had very good reason for saying so. They had gone, in short—and very great had been the evident distress and confusion of the lady. She had hardly been able to speak a word, and every look and action had shewn how deeply she was suffering from consciousness. The quiet, heart-felt satisfaction of the old lady, and the rapturous delight of her daughter—who proved even too joyous to talk as usual, had been a gratifying, yet almost an affecting, scene. They were both so truly respectable in their happiness, so disinterested in every sensation; thought so much of Jane; so much of every body, and so little of themselves, that every kindly feeling was at work for them. Miss Fairfax’s recent illness had offered a fair plea for Mrs. Weston to invite her to an airing; she had drawn back and declined at first, but, on being pressed had yielded; and, in the course of their drive, Mrs. Weston had, by gentle encouragement, overcome so much of her embarrassment, as to bring her to converse on the important subject. Apologies for her seemingly ungracious silence in their first reception, and the warmest expressions of the gratitude she was always feeling towards herself and Mr. Weston, must necessarily open the cause; but when these effusions were put by, they had talked a good deal of the present and of the future state of the engagement. Mrs. Weston was convinced that such conversation must be the greatest relief to her companion, pent up within her own mind as every thing had so long been, and was very much pleased with all that she had said on the subject.
艾玛有一点好奇心；当她的朋友讲述时，她充分利用了这一点。韦斯顿夫人自己也十分激动地出发去拜访。首先，他本来希望现在根本不去，只希望能够写信给费尔法克斯小姐，并把这次正式的拜访推迟到过了一会儿，丘吉尔先生才能接受订婚的事情。已知；因为，考虑到所有事情，她认为这样的访问不可能在没有导致报告的情况下进行：但韦斯顿先生有不同的想法；他非常急于向费尔法克斯小姐和她的家人表达他的认可，并且不认为这会引起任何怀疑。或者如果是的话，将会产生任何后果；他说，“这样的事情总是发生。”艾玛微笑着，觉得韦斯顿先生这么说是有充分理由的。简而言之，他们走了——这位女士明显感到痛苦和困惑。她几乎说不出话来，每一个眼神、每一个动作都表明她的意识受到了多么严重的折磨。老太太平静而发自内心的满足，以及她女儿的欣喜若狂——她甚至高兴得说不出话来，这是一个令人欣慰的，但几乎是一个感人的场景。他们俩的幸福都是那么令人尊敬，对每一种感觉都那么漠不关心。很想念简；每个人的力量都如此之大，而他们自己却如此之少，以至于每一种善意的感觉都在为他们发挥作用。费尔法克斯小姐最近生病了，韦斯顿夫人有理由邀请她参加节目。起初，她退缩了，拒绝了，但在逼迫下，她屈服了。并且，在他们开车的过程中，夫人。 韦斯顿在温和的鼓励下，克服了她的尴尬，让她开始谈论这个重要的话题。为她在第一次接待中看似不礼貌的沉默而道歉，以及她对自己和韦斯顿先生一直怀着的最热烈的感激之情，必然会开启事业；但当这些热情洋溢结束后，他们就订婚的当前和未来状况谈论了很多。韦斯顿夫人确信，这样的谈话对她的同伴来说一定是最大的解脱，她的同伴一直被压抑在自己的脑海里，就像所有的事情一样，她对她就这个问题所说的一切感到非常满意。

‘On the misery of what she had suffered, during the concealment of so many months,’ continued Mrs. Weston, ‘she was energetic. This was one of her expressions. ‘I will not say, that since I entered into the engagement I have not had some happy moments; but I can say, that I have never known the blessing of one tranquil hour:’— and the quivering lip, Emma, which uttered it, was an attestation that I felt at my heart.’
“在隐瞒了这么多个月的时间里，她所遭受的痛苦，”韦斯顿夫人继续说道，“她精力充沛。这是她的表情之一。 “我不会说，自从我订婚以来，我就没有经历过一些快乐的时刻；但我可以说，我从来不知道一个宁静时刻的祝福：“——艾玛颤抖的嘴唇说出了这句话，这是我内心感受到的证明。”

‘Poor girl!’ said Emma. ‘She thinks herself wrong, then, for having consented to a private engagement?’
“可怜的女孩！”艾玛说。 “那么，她认为自己同意私人订婚是错误的吗？”

‘Wrong! No one, I believe, can blame her more than she is disposed to blame herself. ‘The consequence,’ said she, ‘has been a state of perpetual suffering to me; and so it ought. But after all the punishment that misconduct can bring, it is still not less misconduct. Pain is no expiation. I never can be blameless. I have been acting contrary to all my sense of right; and the fortunate turn that every thing has taken, and the kindness I am now receiving, is what my conscience tells me ought not to be.’ ‘Do not imagine, madam,’ she continued, ‘that I was taught wrong. Do not let any reflection fall on the principles or the care of the friends who brought me up. The error has been all my own; and I do assure you that, with all the excuse that present circumstances may appear to give, I shall yet dread making the story known to Colonel Campbell.’’
'错误的！我相信，没有人能比她自责更能责怪她。 “结果，”她说，“对我来说就是一种永久的痛苦；”应该如此。但毕竟不当行为可能带来的惩罚，仍然不轻。痛苦并不能弥补。我永远不可能无可指责。我的行为违背了我所有的正义感； “一切都发生了幸运的转变，我现在受到的善意，是我的良心告诉我不应该的。” “不要想象，女士，”她继续说，“我受到的教育是错误的。不要让任何反思落在养育我的朋友的原则或关怀上。错误全是我自己造成的；我向你保证，尽管目前的情况可能给我提供各种借口，但我仍然害怕让坎贝尔上校知道这个故事。”

‘Poor girl!’ said Emma again. ‘She loves him then excessively, I suppose. It must have been from attachment only, that she could be led to form the engagement. Her affection must have overpowered her judgment.’
“可怜的女孩！”艾玛又说道。 “我想，她太爱他了。”肯定只是出于依恋，她才被迫订婚。她的感情一定压倒了她的判断。

‘Yes, I have no doubt of her being extremely attached to him.’
“是的，我毫不怀疑她对他非常依恋。”

‘I am afraid,’ returned Emma, sighing, ‘that I must often have contributed to make her unhappy.’
“恐怕，”艾玛叹了口气，回答道，“我一定经常让她不高兴。”

‘On your side, my love, it was very innocently done. But she probably had something of that in her thoughts, when alluding to the misunderstandings which he had given us hints of before. One natural consequence of the evil she had involved herself in,’ she said, ‘was that of making her unreasonable. The consciousness of having done amiss, had exposed her to a thousand inquietudes, and made her captious and irritable to a degree that must have been— that had been—hard for him to bear. ‘I did not make the allowances,’ said she, ‘which I ought to have done, for his temper and spirits— his delightful spirits, and that gaiety, that playfulness of disposition, which, under any other circumstances, would, I am sure, have been as constantly bewitching to me, as they were at first.’ She then began to speak of you, and of the great kindness you had shewn her during her illness; and with a blush which shewed me how it was all connected, desired me, whenever I had an opportunity, to thank you—I could not thank you too much—for every wish and every endeavour to do her good. She was sensible that you had never received any proper acknowledgment from herself.’
“亲爱的，在你这边，这是非常无辜的行为。但当她提到他之前向我们暗示过的误会时，她心里可能也有这样的想法。她说，她所参与的邪恶行为的一个自然后果就是让她变得不可理喻。意识到自己做错了事，让她感到千百种不安，让她变得挑剔和易怒，以至于他一定——确实——难以​​忍受。 “我没有考虑到他的脾气和精神，”她说，“我应该考虑到他的脾气和精神——他令人愉快的精神，以及那种快乐、那种顽皮的性情，在任何其他情况下，我都会这样做。” “当然，他们一直对我着迷，就像他们一开始一样。”然后她开始谈论你，以及你在她生病期间对她表现出的巨大善意；我脸红了，这让我明白了这一切是如何联系在一起的，她希望我一有机会就感谢你——我不知道怎么感谢你——感谢你的每一个愿望和为她做好事的每一次努力。她很清楚你从未收到过她本人的任何适当的承认。

‘If I did not know her to be happy now,’ said Emma, seriously, ‘which, in spite of every little drawback from her scrupulous conscience, she must be, I could not bear these thanks;—for, oh! Mrs. Weston, if there were an account drawn up of the evil and the good I have done Miss Fairfax!—Well (checking herself, and trying to be more lively), this is all to be forgotten. You are very kind to bring me these interesting particulars. They shew her to the greatest advantage. I am sure she is very good— I hope she will be very happy. It is fit that the fortune should be on his side, for I think the merit will be all on hers.’
“如果我不知道她现在幸福，”爱玛严肃地说，“尽管她出于良心的缘故，有一些小小的缺点，但她一定是幸福的，我就无法承受这些感谢；——因为，哦！韦斯顿夫人，如果有一个关于我对费尔法克斯小姐所做的恶和善的记录的话！——好吧（检查自己，并试图变得更活泼），这一切都应该被忘记。你非常友善地给我带来了这些有趣的细节。他们向她展示了最大的优势。我确信她非常好——我希望她会很幸福。财富在他这边是理所应当的，因为我认为优点将全部在她身上。

Such a conclusion could not pass unanswered by Mrs. Weston. She thought well of Frank in almost every respect; and, what was more, she loved him very much, and her defence was, therefore, earnest. She talked with a great deal of reason, and at least equal affection— but she had too much to urge for Emma’s attention; it was soon gone to Brunswick Square or to Donwell; she forgot to attempt to listen; and when Mrs. Weston ended with, ‘We have not yet had the letter we are so anxious for, you know, but I hope it will soon come,’ she was obliged to pause before she answered, and at last obliged to answer at random, before she could at all recollect what letter it was which they were so anxious for.
韦斯顿夫人不可能不回答这样的结论。她几乎在各个方面都对弗兰克评价很好。而且，更重要的是，她非常爱他，因此她的辩护是真诚的。她说话时充满了理性，至少也充满了感情——但她有太多东西需要引起艾玛的注意；它很快就开往布伦瑞克广场或唐威尔。她忘记尝试倾听；当韦斯顿夫人最后说道：“你知道，我们还没有收到我们如此焦急的那封信，但我希望它很快就会来。”她在回答之前不得不停顿下来，最后不得不在随机的，在她完全想起来他们如此急切地想要哪封信之前。

‘Are you well, my Emma?’ was Mrs. Weston’s parting question.
“你还好吗，我的艾玛？”这是韦斯顿夫人临别时的提问。

‘Oh! perfectly. I am always well, you know. Be sure to give me intelligence of the letter as soon as possible.’
'哦！完美。我一直都很好，你知道的。请务必尽快向我提供这封信的情报。”

Mrs. Weston’s communications furnished Emma with more food for unpleasant reflection, by increasing her esteem and compassion, and her sense of past injustice towards Miss Fairfax. She bitterly regretted not having sought a closer acquaintance with her, and blushed for the envious feelings which had certainly been, in some measure, the cause. Had she followed Mr. Knightley’s known wishes, in paying that attention to Miss Fairfax, which was every way her due; had she tried to know her better; had she done her part towards intimacy; had she endeavoured to find a friend there instead of in Harriet Smith; she must, in all probability, have been spared from every pain which pressed on her now.—Birth, abilities, and education, had been equally marking one as an associate for her, to be received with gratitude; and the other—what was she?—Supposing even that they had never become intimate friends; that she had never been admitted into Miss Fairfax’s confidence on this important matter— which was most probable—still, in knowing her as she ought, and as she might, she must have been preserved from the abominable suspicions of an improper attachment to Mr. Dixon, which she had not only so foolishly fashioned and harboured herself, but had so unpardonably imparted; an idea which she greatly feared had been made a subject of material distress to the delicacy of Jane’s feelings, by the levity or carelessness of Frank Churchill’s. Of all the sources of evil surrounding the former, since her coming to Highbury, she was persuaded that she must herself have been the worst. She must have been a perpetual enemy. They never could have been all three together, without her having stabbed Jane Fairfax’s peace in a thousand instances; and on Box Hill, perhaps, it had been the agony of a mind that would bear no more.
韦斯顿夫人的交流增加了艾玛的尊重和同情心，以及过去对费尔法克斯小姐不公正的感觉，为她提供了更多不愉快的反思的素材。她非常后悔没有寻求与她更进一步的了解，并因为嫉妒的感觉而脸红，这在某种程度上肯定是原因。她是否按照奈特利先生众所周知的愿望，对费尔法克斯小姐给予了关注，这是她应得的？她是否尝试过更好地了解她？她是否尽了自己的努力去建立亲密关系？她是否曾努力在那里寻找朋友而不是哈丽特·史密斯？她很可能已经摆脱了现在压在她身上的一切痛苦。出生、能力和教育，都同样标志着一个人作为她的伙伴，应该受到感激的接待；另一个——她是什么？——假设他们从未成为亲密的朋友；费尔法克斯小姐从未在这件重要的事情上向她透露过秘密——这是最有可能的——不过，按照她应该的、也可能的那样了解她，她一定不会被怀疑对费尔法克斯先生有不正当的依恋。狄克逊，她不仅如此愚蠢地塑造和拥有自己，而且如此不可原谅地传授了它；她非常担心的一个想法会因为弗兰克·丘吉尔的轻率或粗心而成为简感情细腻的物质困扰的主题。在围绕前者的所有邪恶来源中，自从她来到海布里以来，她确信自己一定是最糟糕的。她一定是永远的敌人。 如果没有她上千次刺伤简·费尔法克斯的平静，他们三人不可能在一起。在博克斯山，也许，这是心灵无法再承受的痛苦。

The evening of this day was very long, and melancholy, at Hartfield. The weather added what it could of gloom. A cold stormy rain set in, and nothing of July appeared but in the trees and shrubs, which the wind was despoiling, and the length of the day, which only made such cruel sights the longer visible.
这一天的夜晚在哈特菲尔德非常漫长而忧郁。天气增添了一丝阴沉。一场寒冷的暴风雨来临了，七月的一切都消失了，除了树木和灌木丛，它们都被风吹坏了，而白昼的长度也让这种残酷的景象变得更加可见。

The weather affected Mr. Woodhouse, and he could only be kept tolerably comfortable by almost ceaseless attention on his daughter’s side, and by exertions which had never cost her half so much before. It reminded her of their first forlorn tete-a-tete, on the evening of Mrs. Weston’s wedding-day; but Mr. Knightley had walked in then, soon after tea, and dissipated every melancholy fancy. Alas! such delightful proofs of Hartfield’s attraction, as those sort of visits conveyed, might shortly be over. The picture which she had then drawn of the privations of the approaching winter, had proved erroneous; no friends had deserted them, no pleasures had been lost.—But her present forebodings she feared would experience no similar contradiction. The prospect before her now, was threatening to a degree that could not be entirely dispelled— that might not be even partially brightened. If all took place that might take place among the circle of her friends, Hartfield must be comparatively deserted; and she left to cheer her father with the spirits only of ruined happiness.
天气影响了伍德豪斯先生，只有在女儿身边几乎不间断的关注，以及她以前从未花费过如此多的努力，他才能保持还算舒适。这让她想起了韦斯顿夫人结婚当晚他们第一次孤独的面对面。但喝完茶后不久，奈特利先生就走了进来，驱散了所有忧郁的幻想。唉!正如这些访问所传达的那样，哈特菲尔德的吸引力的这种令人愉快的证据可能很快就会结束。她当时对即将到来的冬天的贫困所描绘的景象被证明是错误的。没有朋友抛弃他们，没有失去快乐。——但她担心目前的预感不会经历类似的矛盾。现在摆在她面前的前景，威胁到了无法完全消除的程度——甚至可能无法部分地变得明亮。如果所有可能发生在她朋友圈子里的事情发生的话，哈特菲尔德一定是相对冷清的。她带着被毁掉的幸福的心情离开去为她的父亲欢呼。

The child to be born at Randalls must be a tie there even dearer than herself; and Mrs. Weston’s heart and time would be occupied by it. They should lose her; and, probably, in great measure, her husband also.—Frank Churchill would return among them no more; and Miss Fairfax, it was reasonable to suppose, would soon cease to belong to Highbury. They would be married, and settled either at or near Enscombe. All that were good would be withdrawn; and if to these losses, the loss of Donwell were to be added, what would remain of cheerful or of rational society within their reach? Mr. Knightley to be no longer coming there for his evening comfort!— No longer walking in at all hours, as if ever willing to change his own home for their’s!—How was it to be endured? And if he were to be lost to them for Harriet’s sake; if he were to be thought of hereafter, as finding in Harriet’s society all that he wanted; if Harriet were to be the chosen, the first, the dearest, the friend, the wife to whom he looked for all the best blessings of existence; what could be increasing Emma’s wretchedness but the reflection never far distant from her mind, that it had been all her own work?
在兰德尔斯出生的孩子一定是那里的纽带，甚至比她自己更珍贵。韦斯顿夫人的心和时间都会被它占据。他们应该失去她；而且，在很大程度上，很可能还有她的丈夫。——弗兰克·丘吉尔不会再回到他们中间了。可以合理地推测，费尔法克斯小姐很快就会不再属于海布里。他们将结婚并定居在恩斯库姆或其附近。一切美好的事物都会被撤回；如果在这些损失中加上唐威尔的损失，那么在他们力所能及的范围内，快乐或理性的社会还剩下什么呢？奈特利先生不再来这里享受晚间的舒适！——不再全天候走进来，仿佛愿意将自己的家换成他们的家！——这该如何忍受？如果他们因为哈丽特的缘故而失去了他；如果他以后被认为在哈丽特的社交中找到了他想要的一切？如果哈丽雅特是他所选择的、第一位的、最亲爱的、朋友、妻子，他向她寻求生命中最好的祝福；除了她脑海中始终萦绕不去的念头——这一切都是她自己造成的——之外，还有什么能够让艾玛更加悲惨呢？

When it came to such a pitch as this, she was not able to refrain from a start, or a heavy sigh, or even from walking about the room for a few seconds—and the only source whence any thing like consolation or composure could be drawn, was in the resolution of her own better conduct, and the hope that, however inferior in spirit and gaiety might be the following and every future winter of her life to the past, it would yet find her more rational, more acquainted with herself, and leave her less to regret when it were gone.
当遇到这样的情况时，她会情不自禁地一惊，或者重重地叹了口气，甚至在房间里走动了几秒钟——这是安慰或镇定之类的唯一来源。被吸引，是为了自己更好的行为的决心，并希望，无论她接下来的精神和欢乐程度如何不如过去，以及未来的每个冬天，她仍然会发现她更加理性，更加了解自己，让她在失去时不再后悔。

Chapter XIII
第十三章

The weather continued much the same all the following morning; and the same loneliness, and the same melancholy, seemed to reign at Hartfield—but in the afternoon it cleared; the wind changed into a softer quarter; the clouds were carried off; the sun appeared; it was summer again. With all the eagerness which such a transition gives, Emma resolved to be out of doors as soon as possible. Never had the exquisite sight, smell, sensation of nature, tranquil, warm, and brilliant after a storm, been more attractive to her. She longed for the serenity they might gradually introduce; and on Mr. Perry’s coming in soon after dinner, with a disengaged hour to give her father, she lost no time ill hurrying into the shrubbery.—There, with spirits freshened, and thoughts a little relieved, she had taken a few turns, when she saw Mr. Knightley passing through the garden door, and coming towards her.—It was the first intimation of his being returned from London. She had been thinking of him the moment before, as unquestionably sixteen miles distant.—There was time only for the quickest arrangement of mind. She must be collected and calm. In half a minute they were together. The ‘How d’ye do’s’ were quiet and constrained on each side. She asked after their mutual friends; they were all well.—When had he left them?—Only that morning. He must have had a wet ride.—Yes.—He meant to walk with her, she found. ‘He had just looked into the dining-room, and as he was not wanted there, preferred being out of doors.’—She thought he neither looked nor spoke cheerfully; and the first possible cause for it, suggested by her fears, was, that he had perhaps been communicating his plans to his brother, and was pained by the manner in which they had been received.
第二天早上天气基本没有变化。同样的孤独、同样的忧郁似乎统治着哈特菲尔德——但到了下午，一切都消散了。风势转为柔和；云朵被带走了；太阳出现了；又到了夏天。怀着这种转变所带来的强烈渴望，艾玛决定尽快走出家门。暴风雨过后的大自然的精致的视觉、嗅觉、感觉，宁静、温暖、灿烂，从未如此吸引过她。她渴望他们逐渐带来的宁静；晚饭后不久，佩里先生进来了，给她父亲一个闲暇的时间，她不失时机地冲进灌木丛。——在那里，精神焕发，心情也稍稍放松了一些，她转了几圈，当她看到奈特利先生穿过花园门向她走来时。——这是他从伦敦回来的第一个暗示。刚才她一直在想着他，毫无疑问，他在十六英里之外。——只有时间来最快地安排思想。她必须镇定自若、冷静。半分钟后，他们就在一起了。双方都安静而拘谨地喊着“你好”。她询问了他们共同的朋友的情况。他们都很好。——他什么时候离开他们的？——只有那天早上。他一定是淋湿了。——是的。——她发现，他打算和她一起散步。 “他刚刚进了餐厅，因为那里不受欢迎，所以他宁愿呆在外面。”——她认为他看上去既不高兴，也不高兴，说话也不高兴。她的担心表明，第一个可能的原因是，他可能一直在向他的兄弟传达他的计划，并对他们接受的方式感到痛苦。

They walked together. He was silent. She thought he was often looking at her, and trying for a fuller view of her face than it suited her to give. And this belief produced another dread. Perhaps he wanted to speak to her, of his attachment to Harriet; he might be watching for encouragement to begin.—She did not, could not, feel equal to lead the way to any such subject. He must do it all himself. Yet she could not bear this silence. With him it was most unnatural. She considered—resolved—and, trying to smile, began—
他们一起走着。他沉默了。她认为他经常看着她，并试图更全面地观察她的脸，但她不适合这样做。这种信念又产生了另一种恐惧。也许他想和她谈谈他对哈丽特的依恋；也许他想和她谈谈。他可能正在等待鼓励开始。——她没有，也不能，觉得自己有能力带路去讨论任何这样的话题。他必须自己做这一切。但她还是无法忍受这种沉默。对他来说这是最不自然的。她考虑——下定决心——然后，努力微笑着，开始——

‘You have some news to hear, now you are come back, that will rather surprize you.’
“你有消息要听，现在你回来了，这会让你感到惊讶。”

‘Have I?’ said he quietly, and looking at her; ‘of what nature?’
“我有吗？”他看着她，轻声说道。 “什么性质的？”

‘Oh! the best nature in the world—a wedding.’
'哦！世界上最美好的自然——婚礼。”

After waiting a moment, as if to be sure she intended to say no more, he replied,
等了一会儿，似乎是确定她不想再说了，他回答道：

‘If you mean Miss Fairfax and Frank Churchill, I have heard that already.’
“如果你指的是费尔法克斯小姐和弗兰克·丘吉尔，我已经听说过。”

‘How is it possible?’ cried Emma, turning her glowing cheeks towards him; for, while she spoke, it occurred to her that he might have called at Mrs. Goddard’s in his way.
“这怎么可能？”艾玛喊道，把红润的脸转向他。因为，当她说话时，她突然想到他可能以自己的方式拜访了戈达德夫人家。

‘I had a few lines on parish business from Mr. Weston this morning, and at the end of them he gave me a brief account of what had happened.’
“今天早上我收到了韦斯顿先生关于教区事务的几句话，最后他向我简要介绍了所发生的事情。”

Emma was quite relieved, and could presently say, with a little more composure,
艾玛松了一口气，现在可以平静地说：

‘You probably have been less surprized than any of us, for you have had your suspicions.—I have not forgotten that you once tried to give me a caution.—I wish I had attended to it—but—(with a sinking voice and a heavy sigh) I seem to have been doomed to blindness.’
“你可能没有我们任何人那么惊讶，因为你有自己的怀疑。——我没有忘记你曾经试图给我一个警告。——我希望我当时注意到了——但是——（声音低沉并重重地叹了口气）我似乎注定要失明了。

For a moment or two nothing was said, and she was unsuspicious of having excited any particular interest, till she found her arm drawn within his, and pressed against his heart, and heard him thus saying, in a tone of great sensibility, speaking low,
有那么一会儿，什么也没说，她并不怀疑自己引起了任何特别的兴趣，直到她发现自己的手臂被拉在他的怀里，压在他的心上，听到他这样说，语气非常敏感，低声说话。 ,

‘Time, my dearest Emma, time will heal the wound.—Your own excellent sense—your exertions for your father’s sake—I know you will not allow yourself—.’ Her arm was pressed again, as he added, in a more broken and subdued accent, ‘The feelings of the warmest friendship—Indignation—Abominable scoundrel!’— And in a louder, steadier tone, he concluded with, ‘He will soon be gone. They will soon be in Yorkshire. I am sorry for her. She deserves a better fate.’
“时间，我最亲爱的艾玛，时间会治愈伤口。——你自己出色的判断力——你为了你父亲而付出的努力——我知道你不会允许自己——”她的手臂再次被压住，他补充道，更加破碎了。他用柔和的口音说道：“最温暖的友谊的感觉——愤慨——可恶的恶棍！”——他用更大声、更稳定的语气总结道，“他很快就会离开。”他们很快就会到达约克郡。我为她感到难过。她值得更好的命运。

Emma understood him; and as soon as she could recover from the flutter of pleasure, excited by such tender consideration, replied,
艾玛理解他。当她从因这种温柔的体贴而兴奋的喜悦中恢复过来时，她回答道：

‘You are very kind—but you are mistaken—and I must set you right.— I am not in want of that sort of compassion. My blindness to what was going on, led me to act by them in a way that I must always be ashamed of, and I was very foolishly tempted to say and do many things which may well lay me open to unpleasant conjectures, but I have no other reason to regret that I was not in the secret earlier.’
“你很善良——但你错了——我必须纠正你。——我不需要那种同情心。我对正在发生的事情视而不见，导致我以一种我必须永远感到羞耻的方式行事，我非常愚蠢地想要说和做很多事情，这些事情很可能会让我陷入不愉快的猜测，但我已经没有其他理由让我后悔自己没有早点知道这个秘密。”

‘Emma!’ cried he, looking eagerly at her, ‘are you, indeed?’— but checking himself—‘No, no, I understand you—forgive me—I am pleased that you can say even so much.—He is no object of regret, indeed! and it will not be very long, I hope, before that becomes the acknowledgment of more than your reason.—Fortunate that your affections were not farther entangled!—I could never, I confess, from your manners, assure myself as to the degree of what you felt— I could only be certain that there was a preference—and a preference which I never believed him to deserve.—He is a disgrace to the name of man.—And is he to be rewarded with that sweet young woman?— Jane, Jane, you will be a miserable creature.’
“艾玛！”他急切地看着她，喊道，“你真的是吗？”——但又检查了一下自己——“不，不，我理解你——请原谅我——我很高兴你能说这么多。——他是确实没有什么可遗憾的！我希望，用不了多久，这就会成为对你理性之外的更多的承认。——幸运的是，你的感情没有进一步纠缠在一起！——我承认，从你的举止来看，我永远无法保证自己的程度你的感受——我只能确定有一种偏爱——一种我从来不相信他应得的偏爱。——他是男人名誉的耻辱。——他会得到那个可爱的年轻女人的奖赏吗？ ？——简，简，你会是一个悲惨的生物。

‘Mr. Knightley,’ said Emma, trying to be lively, but really confused— ‘I am in a very extraordinary situation. I cannot let you continue in your error; and yet, perhaps, since my manners gave such an impression, I have as much reason to be ashamed of confessing that I never have been at all attached to the person we are speaking of, as it might be natural for a woman to feel in confessing exactly the reverse.— But I never have.’
'先生。奈特利，”艾玛试图表现得活泼一点，但实际上很困惑——“我的处境非常不寻常。我不能让你继续错误；然而，也许，既然我的举止给人留下了这样的印象，我就有足够的理由羞于承认我从来没有对我们正在谈论的人有任何感情，就像一个女人很自然地感觉到承认恰恰相反。——但我从来没有。

He listened in perfect silence. She wished him to speak, but he would not. She supposed she must say more before she were entitled to his clemency; but it was a hard case to be obliged still to lower herself in his opinion. She went on, however.
他静静地听着。她希望他说话，但他不肯。她想，在她有资格得到他的宽大处理之前，她必须说得更多。但在他看来，仍然不得不降低自己的地位是很困难的。然而她继续说下去。

‘I have very little to say for my own conduct.—I was tempted by his attentions, and allowed myself to appear pleased.— An old story, probably—a common case—and no more than has happened to hundreds of my sex before; and yet it may not be the more excusable in one who sets up as I do for Understanding. Many circumstances assisted the temptation. He was the son of Mr. Weston—he was continually here—I always found him very pleasant—and, in short, for (with a sigh) let me swell out the causes ever so ingeniously, they all centre in this at last—my vanity was flattered, and I allowed his attentions. Latterly, however—for some time, indeed— I have had no idea of their meaning any thing.—I thought them a habit, a trick, nothing that called for seriousness on my side. He has imposed on me, but he has not injured me. I have never been attached to him. And now I can tolerably comprehend his behaviour. He never wished to attach me. It was merely a blind to conceal his real situation with another.—It was his object to blind all about him; and no one, I am sure, could be more effectually blinded than myself—except that I was not blinded—that it was my good fortune—that, in short, I was somehow or other safe from him.’
“我对自己的行为没什么可说的。——我被他的关注所吸引，并让自己显得很高兴。——这可能是一个老故事——一个常见的案例——而且以前也发生在我的数百个同性身上。” ;然而，对于像我这样致力于理解的人来说，这可能并不是更可以原谅的。许多情况都助长了诱惑。他是韦斯顿先生的儿子——他一直在这里——我总是觉得他很令人愉快——总之，因为（叹了口气）让我如此巧妙地阐述原因，它们最后都集中在这一点上——我的虚荣心得到了满足，我接受了他的关注。然而，最近——事实上，有一段时间——我不知道它们有什么意义。——我认为它们是一种习惯，一种诡计，不需要我认真对待。他强加给我，但他没有伤害我。我对他从来没有依恋过。现在我可以很好地理解他的行为。他从来没想过要和我在一起。这只不过是一个盲人，向另一个人隐瞒自己的真实情况。——他的目的是蒙蔽他周围的一切；他的目的是蒙蔽他周围的一切。我确信，没有人比我自己更能蒙蔽双眼——除了我没有蒙蔽——这是我的幸运——简而言之，我在某种程度上是安全的。

She had hoped for an answer here—for a few words to say that her conduct was at least intelligible; but he was silent; and, as far as she could judge, deep in thought. At last, and tolerably in his usual tone, he said,
她本来希望在这里得到答案——希望能说几句话来说明她的行为至少是可以理解的；但她却没有得到任何回应。但他沉默了；据她判断，她陷入了沉思。最后，他用他一贯的语气说道：

‘I have never had a high opinion of Frank Churchill.—I can suppose, however, that I may have underrated him. My acquaintance with him has been but trifling.—And even if I have not underrated him hitherto, he may yet turn out well.—With such a woman he has a chance.—I have no motive for wishing him ill—and for her sake, whose happiness will be involved in his good character and conduct, I shall certainly wish him well.’
“我对弗兰克·丘吉尔从来没有很高的评价。但是，我可以认为我可能低估了他。我和他的交情还算浅薄。——而且，即使迄今为止我还没有低估他，他也可能会发展得很好。——和这样的女人在一起，他有机会。——我没有理由祝他不好——也祝她不好。他的幸福取决于他良好的品格和行为，我当然祝他一切顺利。

‘I have no doubt of their being happy together,’ said Emma; ‘I believe them to be very mutually and very sincerely attached.’
“我毫不怀疑他们在一起会很幸福，”艾玛说。 “我相信他们非常相互、非常真诚地依恋。”

‘He is a most fortunate man!’ returned Mr. Knightley, with energy. ‘So early in life—at three-and-twenty—a period when, if a man chuses a wife, he generally chuses ill. At three-and-twenty to have drawn such a prize! What years of felicity that man, in all human calculation, has before him!—Assured of the love of such a woman—the disinterested love, for Jane Fairfax’s character vouches for her disinterestedness; every thing in his favour,— equality of situation—I mean, as far as regards society, and all the habits and manners that are important; equality in every point but one— and that one, since the purity of her heart is not to be doubted, such as must increase his felicity, for it will be his to bestow the only advantages she wants.—A man would always wish to give a woman a better home than the one he takes her from; and he who can do it, where there is no doubt of her regard, must, I think, be the happiest of mortals.—Frank Churchill is, indeed, the favourite of fortune. Every thing turns out for his good.—He meets with a young woman at a watering-place, gains her affection, cannot even weary her by negligent treatment—and had he and all his family sought round the world for a perfect wife for him, they could not have found her superior.—His aunt is in the way.—His aunt dies.—He has only to speak.—His friends are eager to promote his happiness.— He had used every body ill—and they are all delighted to forgive him.— He is a fortunate man indeed!’
“他是一个最幸运的人！”奈特利先生精力充沛地回答道。 “在人生的早期——三岁和二十岁——这个时期，如果一个男人选择一个妻子，他通常会选择不好的。三岁二十就中了这样的奖品！就人类的计算而言，这个男人在他面前有多么幸福的岁月啊！——对这样一个女人的爱的保证——无私的爱，因为简·费尔法克斯的性格保证了她的无私；一切对他有利的事情——处境平等——我的意思是，就社会而言，以及所有重要的习惯和举止；除了一点之外，在每一点上都是平等的——而这一点，因为她内心的纯洁是不容怀疑的，这样就一定会增加他的幸福，因为他将给予她唯一想要的优势。——一个男人总是希望给一个女人一个比他带走她的更好的家；我认为，谁能做到这一点，而且得到她的尊重，他一定是最幸福的人。——弗兰克·丘吉尔确实是命运的宠儿。一切都对他有利。——他在水边遇见了一位年轻女子，赢得了她的芳心，甚至不能因为疏忽的对待而让她感到厌倦——他和他的家人在世界各地寻找一个完美的妻子。 ，他们不可能找到她的上级。-他的姨妈挡了路。-他的姨妈死了。-他只需说话。-他的朋友们渴望促进他的幸福。-他用尽了一切身体不适-他们是大家都很高兴地原谅了他。——他确实是一个幸运的人！

‘You speak as if you envied him.’
“你说得好像你很羡慕他一样。”

‘And I do envy him, Emma. In one respect he is the object of my envy.’
“我确实很羡慕他，艾玛。从一方面来说，他是我羡慕的对象。”

Emma could say no more. They seemed to be within half a sentence of Harriet, and her immediate feeling was to avert the subject, if possible. She made her plan; she would speak of something totally different—the children in Brunswick Square; and she only waited for breath to begin, when Mr. Knightley startled her, by saying,
艾玛不能再说什么了。他们似乎和哈丽特只说了半句话，她的第一反应是如果可能的话，要回避这个话题。她制定了计划；她会谈论一些完全不同的事情——布伦瑞克广场的孩子们；她刚等呼吸开始，奈特利先生就说：

‘You will not ask me what is the point of envy.—You are determined, I see, to have no curiosity.—You are wise—but I cannot be wise. Emma, I must tell you what you will not ask, though I may wish it unsaid the next moment.’
“你不会问我嫉妒有什么意义。——我明白，你决心没有好奇心。——你很聪明——但我不能聪明。艾玛，我必须告诉你你不会问的事情，尽管我可能希望下一刻不要说出来。

‘Oh! then, don’t speak it, don’t speak it,’ she eagerly cried. ‘Take a little time, consider, do not commit yourself.’
'哦！那么，别说话，别说话。”她急切地喊道。 “花点时间考虑一下，不要承诺自己。”

‘Thank you,’ said he, in an accent of deep mortification, and not another syllable followed.
“谢谢你，”他用一种深深的屈辱的口音说道，随后就没有再发出一个音节。

Emma could not bear to give him pain. He was wishing to confide in her— perhaps to consult her;—cost her what it would, she would listen. She might assist his resolution, or reconcile him to it; she might give just praise to Harriet, or, by representing to him his own independence, relieve him from that state of indecision, which must be more intolerable than any alternative to such a mind as his.—They had reached the house.
艾玛不忍心让他痛苦。他希望向她吐露心声——也许是向她咨询；——无论付出什么代价，她都会听。她可能会帮助他做出决定，或者让他接受这个决定。她可以对哈丽雅特给予公正的赞扬，或者通过向他表明自己的独立性，使他摆脱优柔寡断的状态，这种状态一定比他这样的思想的任何其他选择更难以忍受。——他们已经到了房子。

‘You are going in, I suppose?’ said he.
“我想你要进去吧？”他说。

‘No,’—replied Emma—quite confirmed by the depressed manner in which he still spoke—‘I should like to take another turn. Mr. Perry is not gone.’ And, after proceeding a few steps, she added— ‘I stopped you ungraciously, just now, Mr. Knightley, and, I am afraid, gave you pain.—But if you have any wish to speak openly to me as a friend, or to ask my opinion of any thing that you may have in contemplation—as a friend, indeed, you may command me.—I will hear whatever you like. I will tell you exactly what I think.’
“不，”艾玛回答道，他说话时的沮丧态度就证实了这一点，“我想再转一圈。”佩里先生还没走。”走了几步，她补充道——“奈特利先生，我刚才无礼地阻止了你，而且，我担心，给你带来了痛苦。——但是如果你愿意的话作为朋友，你可以开诚布公地与我交谈，或者询问我对你可能想到的任何事情的看法——事实上，作为朋友，你可以命令我。——我会听你喜欢的任何话。我会准确地告诉你我的想法。

‘As a friend!’—repeated Mr. Knightley.—‘Emma, that I fear is a word—No, I have no wish—Stay, yes, why should I hesitate?— I have gone too far already for concealment.—Emma, I accept your offer— Extraordinary as it may seem, I accept it, and refer myself to you as a friend.—Tell me, then, have I no chance of ever succeeding?’
“作为朋友！”——奈特利先生重复道。——“艾玛，我担心的是一个词——不，我没有愿望——留下来，是的，我为什么要犹豫？——我已经走得太远了，无法隐瞒。——艾玛，我接受你的提议——尽管看起来很不寻常，但我接受了，并把自己当作朋友来对待你。——那么，请告诉我，我没有成功的机会吗？

He stopped in his earnestness to look the question, and the expression of his eyes overpowered her.
他停下来，认真地看着这个问题，他的眼神压倒了她。

‘My dearest Emma,’ said he, ‘for dearest you will always be, whatever the event of this hour’s conversation, my dearest, most beloved Emma—tell me at once. Say ‘No,’ if it is to be said.’— She could really say nothing.—‘You are silent,’ he cried, with great animation; ‘absolutely silent! at present I ask no more.’
“我最亲爱的艾玛，”他说，“因为无论这一小时的谈话发生什么，你永远都是最亲爱的，我最亲爱的、最心爱的艾玛——立刻告诉我。如果要说的话，就说‘不’。”——她真的什么也说不出来。——“你沉默了，”他兴奋地喊道；“你不说话了。” ‘绝对安静！现在我不再问了。

Emma was almost ready to sink under the agitation of this moment. The dread of being awakened from the happiest dream, was perhaps the most prominent feeling.
艾玛在这一刻的激动下几乎要崩溃了。害怕从最幸福的梦中醒来，也许是最突出的感觉。

‘I cannot make speeches, Emma:’ he soon resumed; and in a tone of such sincere, decided, intelligible tenderness as was tolerably convincing.—‘If I loved you less, I might be able to talk about it more. But you know what I am.—You hear nothing but truth from me.—I have blamed you, and lectured you, and you have borne it as no other woman in England would have borne it.— Bear with the truths I would tell you now, dearest Emma, as well as you have borne with them. The manner, perhaps, may have as little to recommend them. God knows, I have been a very indifferent lover.— But you understand me.—Yes, you see, you understand my feelings— and will return them if you can. At present, I ask only to hear, once to hear your voice.’
“我不能讲话，艾玛。”他很快又说道。语气真诚、坚决、可理解的温柔，令人信服——“如果我爱你少一点，我也许可以更多地谈论这件事。”但你知道我是什么人。——你从我嘴里听到的只是实话。——我责备过你，教训过你，而你所忍受的，是英国其他女人所无法忍受的。——请忍受我要说的真相。现在你，最亲爱的艾玛，以及你已经忍受了他们。或许，这种方式对他们来说没有什么可推荐的。天知道，我一直是一个非常冷漠的情人。——但你理解我。——是的，你看，你理解我的感受——如果可以的话，你会回报我的。目前，我只求听听，一次听听你的声音。

While he spoke, Emma’s mind was most busy, and, with all the wonderful velocity of thought, had been able—and yet without losing a word— to catch and comprehend the exact truth of the whole; to see that Harriet’s hopes had been entirely groundless, a mistake, a delusion, as complete a delusion as any of her own—that Harriet was nothing; that she was every thing herself; that what she had been saying relative to Harriet had been all taken as the language of her own feelings; and that her agitation, her doubts, her reluctance, her discouragement, had been all received as discouragement from herself.—And not only was there time for these convictions, with all their glow of attendant happiness; there was time also to rejoice that Harriet’s secret had not escaped her, and to resolve that it need not, and should not.—It was all the service she could now render her poor friend; for as to any of that heroism of sentiment which might have prompted her to entreat him to transfer his affection from herself to Harriet, as infinitely the most worthy of the two— or even the more simple sublimity of resolving to refuse him at once and for ever, without vouchsafing any motive, because he could not marry them both, Emma had it not. She felt for Harriet, with pain and with contrition; but no flight of generosity run mad, opposing all that could be probable or reasonable, entered her brain. She had led her friend astray, and it would be a reproach to her for ever; but her judgment was as strong as her feelings, and as strong as it had ever been before, in reprobating any such alliance for him, as most unequal and degrading. Her way was clear, though not quite smooth.—She spoke then, on being so entreated.— What did she say?—Just what she ought, of course. A lady always does.— She said enough to shew there need not be despair—and to invite him to say more himself. He had despaired at one period; he had received such an injunction to caution and silence, as for the time crushed every hope;—she had begun by refusing to hear him.—The change had perhaps been somewhat sudden;—her proposal of taking another turn, her renewing the conversation which she had just put an end to, might be a little extraordinary!—She felt its inconsistency; but Mr. Knightley was so obliging as to put up with it, and seek no farther explanation.
当他说话的时候，艾玛的头脑非常忙碌，并且以惊人的思维速度，已经能够——而且没有漏掉一个字——抓住并理解了整体的确切真相。看到哈丽特的希望完全是毫无根据的，一个错误，一个错觉，和她自己的任何一个一样完全是一个错觉——哈丽特什么也不是；她就是一切；她对哈丽特所说的话全都被视为她自己的感情语言；她的激动，她的怀疑，她的不情愿，她的沮丧，全都被视为她自己的沮丧。她还有时间为哈丽特的秘密没有逃脱而感到庆幸，并下定决心，这不需要也不应该。——这是她现在能为她可怜的朋友提供的全部服务；因为至于那种英雄主义的情感可能会促使她恳求他把他的感情从她自己身上转移到哈丽特身上，因为她是两个人中最值得的人——或者甚至更简单的崇高决心立即并永远拒绝他永远，没有任何动机，因为他不能娶他们两个，艾玛没有。她同情哈丽特，既痛苦又悔恨。但她的脑子里并没有出现任何疯狂的慷慨行为，反对一切可能或合理的事情。她让她的朋友误入歧途，这将是她永远的耻辱。但她的判断力和她的感情一样强烈，而且像以前一样强烈，谴责任何与他结盟的行为，认为这是最不平等和有辱人格的。她的道路很清楚，尽管不太顺利。——在如此恳求下，她才开口说话。——她说什么？——当然，正是她应该说的。女士总是这样。——她说了足够多的话，足以表明不必绝望——并邀请他自己再说更多。他曾一度绝望过；他收到了这样的命令，要小心谨慎，保持沉默，因为时间粉碎了所有希望；——她一开始就拒绝听他说话。——变化也许有点突然；——她提议再转一次，她重新开始谈话她刚刚结束的这一切，可能有点不同寻常！——她觉得这很矛盾；但奈特利先生非常乐于助人，容忍了这件事，没有寻求进一步的解释。

Seldom, very seldom, does complete truth belong to any human disclosure; seldom can it happen that something is not a little disguised, or a little mistaken; but where, as in this case, though the conduct is mistaken, the feelings are not, it may not be very material.— Mr. Knightley could not impute to Emma a more relenting heart than she possessed, or a heart more disposed to accept of his.
人类披露的信息很少、非常少。很少有事情不是经过一点掩饰，或者一点点错误的。但在这种情况下，虽然行为是错误的，但感情却没有，那么它可能不是很重要。——奈特利先生无法将爱玛归咎于她比她拥有的更宽容的心，或者更倾向于接受的心。他的。

He had, in fact, been wholly unsuspicious of his own influence. He had followed her into the shrubbery with no idea of trying it. He had come, in his anxiety to see how she bore Frank Churchill’s engagement, with no selfish view, no view at all, but of endeavouring, if she allowed him an opening, to soothe or to counsel her.—The rest had been the work of the moment, the immediate effect of what he heard, on his feelings. The delightful assurance of her total indifference towards Frank Churchill, of her having a heart completely disengaged from him, had given birth to the hope, that, in time, he might gain her affection himself;—but it had been no present hope—he had only, in the momentary conquest of eagerness over judgment, aspired to be told that she did not forbid his attempt to attach her.—The superior hopes which gradually opened were so much the more enchanting.— The affection, which he had been asking to be allowed to create, if he could, was already his!—Within half an hour, he had passed from a thoroughly distressed state of mind, to something so like perfect happiness, that it could bear no other name.
事实上，他对自己的影响力完全没有怀疑。他跟着她走进了灌木丛，却没有想到要尝试一下。他来是为了看看她如何接受弗兰克·丘吉尔的订婚，没有自私的想法，根本没有任何想法，而是努力，如果她允许他有机会的话，安慰或劝告她。当下的工作，他所听到的对他的感受的直接影响。她对弗兰克·丘吉尔完全漠不关心，她的心完全脱离了他，这一令人愉快的保证催生了这样的希望，即，到时候，他可能会自己赢得她的喜爱；——但这并不是目前的希望——他只是，在一瞬间征服了判断力的渴望中，渴望被告知她并没有禁止他试图联系她。——逐渐开放的高级希望更加迷人。——他一直在要求的感情如果可以的话，被允许创造，已经是他的了！——半个小时之内，他就从一种彻底痛苦的精神状态转变为一种完美的幸福，这是无法用其他名字来形容的。

Her change was equal.—This one half-hour had given to each the same precious certainty of being beloved, had cleared from each the same degree of ignorance, jealousy, or distrust.—On his side, there had been a long-standing jealousy, old as the arrival, or even the expectation, of Frank Churchill.—He had been in love with Emma, and jealous of Frank Churchill, from about the same period, one sentiment having probably enlightened him as to the other. It was his jealousy of Frank Churchill that had taken him from the country.—The Box Hill party had decided him on going away. He would save himself from witnessing again such permitted, encouraged attentions.—He had gone to learn to be indifferent.— But he had gone to a wrong place. There was too much domestic happiness in his brother’s house; woman wore too amiable a form in it; Isabella was too much like Emma—differing only in those striking inferiorities, which always brought the other in brilliancy before him, for much to have been done, even had his time been longer.—He had stayed on, however, vigorously, day after day—till this very morning’s post had conveyed the history of Jane Fairfax.—Then, with the gladness which must be felt, nay, which he did not scruple to feel, having never believed Frank Churchill to be at all deserving Emma, was there so much fond solicitude, so much keen anxiety for her, that he could stay no longer. He had ridden home through the rain; and had walked up directly after dinner, to see how this sweetest and best of all creatures, faultless in spite of all her faults, bore the discovery.
她的改变是平等的。——这半个小时给了每个人同样珍贵的被爱的确定性，也清除了每个人同样程度的无知、嫉妒或不信任。——在他这边，有一个长期存在的人嫉妒，就像弗兰克·丘吉尔的到来，甚至是对他的期待一样古老。——大约从同一时期开始，他就爱上了艾玛，也嫉妒了弗兰克·丘吉尔，一种情感可能启发了他对另一种情感的认识。正是他对弗兰克·丘吉尔的嫉妒使他离开了这个国家。——博士山党决定他离开。他要避免再次目睹这种允许的、鼓励的关注。——他已经学会了冷漠。——但他走错了地方。他哥哥家里有太多的家庭幸福。女人穿着太和蔼可亲了；伊莎贝拉太像艾玛了——只是在那些明显的自卑方面有所不同，这种自卑总是让对方在他面前显得光彩照人，即使他的时间更长，也有很多事情要做。——然而，第二天，他仍然精力充沛地留下来。那天——直到今天早上的帖子传达了简·费尔法克斯的历史。——然后，他带着必须感受到的高兴，不，他毫不犹豫地感受到了，因为他从来不相信弗兰克·丘吉尔完全配得上艾玛。他对她如此深切的关心、如此强烈的焦虑，以至于他不能再留下来了。他冒雨骑车回家。晚饭后，她直接走上前去，看看这个最可爱、最优秀的生物，尽管有种种缺点，却毫无缺点，是如何承受这一发现的。

He had found her agitated and low.—Frank Churchill was a villain.— He heard her declare that she had never loved him. Frank Churchill’s character was not desperate.—She was his own Emma, by hand and word, when they returned into the house; and if he could have thought of Frank Churchill then, he might have deemed him a very good sort of fellow.
他发现她情绪激动、情绪低落。——弗兰克·丘吉尔是个恶棍。——他听到她宣称她从未爱过他。弗兰克·丘吉尔的性格并不绝望。——当他们回到屋子时，从手上和言语上看，她就是他自己的艾玛。如果他当时能想到弗兰克·丘吉尔，他可能会认为他是一个非常好的人。

Chapter XIV
第十四章

What totally different feelings did Emma take back into the house from what she had brought out!—she had then been only daring to hope for a little respite of suffering;—she was now in an exquisite flutter of happiness, and such happiness moreover as she believed must still be greater when the flutter should have passed away.
爱玛回到家后的感受与她带出来的感受是多么不同啊！——那时她只是敢于希望痛苦能得到一点喘息；——现在她沉浸在一种美妙的幸福之中，而且这种幸福还像她相信，当颤抖消失后，一定还会更大。

They sat down to tea—the same party round the same table— how often it had been collected!—and how often had her eyes fallen on the same shrubs in the lawn, and observed the same beautiful effect of the western sun!—But never in such a state of spirits, never in any thing like it; and it was with difficulty that she could summon enough of her usual self to be the attentive lady of the house, or even the attentive daughter.
他们坐下来喝茶——同一个聚会，围着同一张桌子——收集了多少次！——她的眼睛有多少次落在草坪上的同样的灌木丛上，观察到西边阳光同样美丽的效果！——但是从来没有处于这样的精神状态，从来没有处于这样的状态；她很难恢复平时的样子，成为家里细心的女主人，甚至是细心的女儿。

Poor Mr. Woodhouse little suspected what was plotting against him in the breast of that man whom he was so cordially welcoming, and so anxiously hoping might not have taken cold from his ride.—Could he have seen the heart, he would have cared very little for the lungs; but without the most distant imagination of the impending evil, without the slightest perception of any thing extraordinary in the looks or ways of either, he repeated to them very comfortably all the articles of news he had received from Mr. Perry, and talked on with much self-contentment, totally unsuspicious of what they could have told him in return.
可怜的伍德豪斯先生几乎没有想到，那个他如此热情地欢迎他、如此焦急地希望他不会因为他的骑行而感冒的那个人的心里，正在密谋着什么。——如果他能看到他的心，他会非常在乎的。对肺部影响不大；但他对即将到来的邪恶没有丝毫的想象，也没有丝毫察觉到任何人的外表或方式有什么不寻常的地方，他非常轻松地向他们重复了他从佩里先生那里收到的所有新闻文章，并与他们交谈。非常自满，完全不怀疑他们可以告诉他什么作为回报。

As long as Mr. Knightley remained with them, Emma’s fever continued; but when he was gone, she began to be a little tranquillised and subdued—and in the course of the sleepless night, which was the tax for such an evening, she found one or two such very serious points to consider, as made her feel, that even her happiness must have some alloy. Her father—and Harriet. She could not be alone without feeling the full weight of their separate claims; and how to guard the comfort of both to the utmost, was the question. With respect to her father, it was a question soon answered. She hardly knew yet what Mr. Knightley would ask; but a very short parley with her own heart produced the most solemn resolution of never quitting her father.—She even wept over the idea of it, as a sin of thought. While he lived, it must be only an engagement; but she flattered herself, that if divested of the danger of drawing her away, it might become an increase of comfort to him.— How to do her best by Harriet, was of more difficult decision;— how to spare her from any unnecessary pain; how to make her any possible atonement; how to appear least her enemy?— On these subjects, her perplexity and distress were very great— and her mind had to pass again and again through every bitter reproach and sorrowful regret that had ever surrounded it.— She could only resolve at last, that she would still avoid a meeting with her, and communicate all that need be told by letter; that it would be inexpressibly desirable to have her removed just now for a time from Highbury, and—indulging in one scheme more— nearly resolve, that it might be practicable to get an invitation for her to Brunswick Square.—Isabella had been pleased with Harriet; and a few weeks spent in London must give her some amusement.— She did not think it in Harriet’s nature to escape being benefited by novelty and variety, by the streets, the shops, and the children.— At any rate, it would be a proof of attention and kindness in herself, from whom every thing was due; a separation for the present; an averting of the evil day, when they must all be together again.
只要奈特利先生和他们在一起，艾玛的发烧就会持续下去。但当他离开后，她开始变得有点平静和压抑——在这个不眠之夜的过程中，这是这样一个晚上的负担，她发现了一两个非常严肃的问题需要考虑，让她觉得，连她的幸福也必须有某种合金。她的父亲——还有哈丽特。如果她没有感受到他们各自主张的全部分量，她就不可能独自一人。如何最大限度地保障双方的舒适，就是问题所在。关于她的父亲，这是一个很快就有答案的问题。她还不知道奈特利先生会问什么；但她与自己的内心进行了一次短暂的交谈后，她做出了最庄严的决定，永远不会离开她的父亲。——她甚至为这个想法哭泣，认为这是思想上的罪恶。当他活着的时候，这一定只是一个订婚；但她自以为，如果摆脱了把她拉走的危险，这可能会给他带来更多的安慰。——如何对哈丽特尽力而为，是一个更困难的决定；——如何使她免受任何不必要的痛苦;如何使她得到任何可能的赎罪；如何才显得不像她的敌人？——在这些问题上，她感到非常困惑和苦恼——她的思绪不得不一次又一次地回想曾经围绕着它的每一个痛苦的责备和悲伤的遗憾。——她最后只能下定决心，她仍然会避免与她会面，并通过信件传达所有需要传达的信息；伊莎贝拉很高兴现在就让她离开海布里一段时间，并且——再沉迷于一个计划——几乎决定，邀请她去不伦瑞克广场可能是可行的。哈丽特；在伦敦度过的几周一定会给她带来一些乐趣。——她不认为哈丽特的天性会逃避从街道、商店和孩子们的新鲜感和多样性中获益。——无论如何，这将证明她对自己的关注和友善，她的一切都来自于她。过期了;目前的分离；避免邪恶的一天，那时他们必须再次聚在一起。

She rose early, and wrote her letter to Harriet; an employment which left her so very serious, so nearly sad, that Mr. Knightley, in walking up to Hartfield to breakfast, did not arrive at all too soon; and half an hour stolen afterwards to go over the same ground again with him, literally and figuratively, was quite necessary to reinstate her in a proper share of the happiness of the evening before.
她很早就起床了，给哈丽特写了信。这份工作让她变得非常严肃，几乎悲伤，以至于奈特利先生步行去哈特菲尔德吃早餐时，并没有很快到达。半个小时后，她又偷偷地和他一起走遍了同一片土地，无论是字面上还是比喻上，这对于恢复她适当分享前一天晚上的快乐来说是非常必要的。

He had not left her long, by no means long enough for her to have the slightest inclination for thinking of any body else, when a letter was brought her from Randalls—a very thick letter;—she guessed what it must contain, and deprecated the necessity of reading it.— She was now in perfect charity with Frank Churchill; she wanted no explanations, she wanted only to have her thoughts to herself— and as for understanding any thing he wrote, she was sure she was incapable of it.—It must be waded through, however. She opened the packet; it was too surely so;—a note from Mrs. Weston to herself, ushered in the letter from Frank to Mrs. Weston.
他离开她没多久，远没有让她有丝毫的心思去想其他人，这时兰德尔斯给她带来了一封信——一封很厚的信；——她猜到了里面一定包含什么，然后不赞成了。读这本书的必要性。——她现在对弗兰克·丘吉尔非常有好感。她不需要任何解释，她只想表达自己的想法——至于理解他写的任何东西，她确信自己没有能力。——然而，它必须费力地读完。她打开包裹；确实如此；——韦斯顿夫人给自己的一封便条，引出了弗兰克给韦斯顿夫人的信。

‘I have the greatest pleasure, my dear Emma, in forwarding to you the enclosed. I know what thorough justice you will do it, and have scarcely a doubt of its happy effect.—I think we shall never materially disagree about the writer again; but I will not delay you by a long preface.—We are quite well.— This letter has been the cure of all the little nervousness I have been feeling lately.—I did not quite like your looks on Tuesday, but it was an ungenial morning; and though you will never own being affected by weather, I think every body feels a north-east wind.— I felt for your dear father very much in the storm of Tuesday afternoon and yesterday morning, but had the comfort of hearing last night, by Mr. Perry, that it had not made him ill.
“亲爱的艾玛，我非常高兴将所附的内容转发给您。我知道你会做出多么公正的决定，并且几乎不会怀疑它的良好效果。——我想我们再也不会在关于作者的问题上出现实质性分歧；我们不会再有任何分歧。但我不会用冗长的序言来耽误你。——我们很好。——这封信治愈了我最近感到的所有小紧张。——我不太喜欢你周二的样子，但这是一个很好的选择。不愉快的早晨；虽然你永远不会承认自己受到天气的影响，但我想每个人都感受到了东北风。——在周二下午和昨天早上的暴风雨中，我非常同情你亲爱的父亲，但昨晚我很舒服地听到，佩里先生说，这并没有让他生病。

‘Yours ever,
‘你的永远，

‘A. W.’
'A。 W.’

[To Mrs. Weston.]
[致韦斯顿夫人。]

WINDSOR-JULY.
温莎七月。

MY DEAR MADAM,
我亲爱的女士，

‘If I made myself intelligible yesterday, this letter will be expected; but expected or not, I know it will be read with candour and indulgence.— You are all goodness, and I believe there will be need of even all your goodness to allow for some parts of my past conduct.— But I have been forgiven by one who had still more to resent. My courage rises while I write. It is very difficult for the prosperous to be humble. I have already met with such success in two applications for pardon, that I may be in danger of thinking myself too sure of yours, and of those among your friends who have had any ground of offence.—You must all endeavour to comprehend the exact nature of my situation when I first arrived at Randalls; you must consider me as having a secret which was to be kept at all hazards. This was the fact. My right to place myself in a situation requiring such concealment, is another question. I shall not discuss it here. For my temptation to think it a right, I refer every caviller to a brick house, sashed windows below, and casements above, in Highbury. I dared not address her openly; my difficulties in the then state of Enscombe must be too well known to require definition; and I was fortunate enough to prevail, before we parted at Weymouth, and to induce the most upright female mind in the creation to stoop in charity to a secret engagement.— Had she refused, I should have gone mad.—But you will be ready to say, what was your hope in doing this?—What did you look forward to?— To any thing, every thing—to time, chance, circumstance, slow effects, sudden bursts, perseverance and weariness, health and sickness. Every possibility of good was before me, and the first of blessings secured, in obtaining her promises of faith and correspondence. If you need farther explanation, I have the honour, my dear madam, of being your husband’s son, and the advantage of inheriting a disposition to hope for good, which no inheritance of houses or lands can ever equal the value of.—See me, then, under these circumstances, arriving on my first visit to Randalls;—and here I am conscious of wrong, for that visit might have been sooner paid. You will look back and see that I did not come till Miss Fairfax was in Highbury; and as you were the person slighted, you will forgive me instantly; but I must work on my father’s compassion, by reminding him, that so long as I absented myself from his house, so long I lost the blessing of knowing you. My behaviour, during the very happy fortnight which I spent with you, did not, I hope, lay me open to reprehension, excepting on one point. And now I come to the principal, the only important part of my conduct while belonging to you, which excites my own anxiety, or requires very solicitous explanation. With the greatest respect, and the warmest friendship, do I mention Miss Woodhouse; my father perhaps will think I ought to add, with the deepest humiliation.— A few words which dropped from him yesterday spoke his opinion, and some censure I acknowledge myself liable to.—My behaviour to Miss Woodhouse indicated, I believe, more than it ought.— In order to assist a concealment so essential to me, I was led on to make more than an allowable use of the sort of intimacy into which we were immediately thrown.—I cannot deny that Miss Woodhouse was my ostensible object—but I am sure you will believe the declaration, that had I not been convinced of her indifference, I would not have been induced by any selfish views to go on.— Amiable and delightful as Miss Woodhouse is, she never gave me the idea of a young woman likely to be attached; and that she was perfectly free from any tendency to being attached to me, was as much my conviction as my wish.—She received my attentions with an easy, friendly, goodhumoured playfulness, which exactly suited me. We seemed to understand each other. From our relative situation, those attentions were her due, and were felt to be so.—Whether Miss Woodhouse began really to understand me before the expiration of that fortnight, I cannot say;—when I called to take leave of her, I remember that I was within a moment of confessing the truth, and I then fancied she was not without suspicion; but I have no doubt of her having since detected me, at least in some degree.— She may not have surmised the whole, but her quickness must have penetrated a part. I cannot doubt it. You will find, whenever the subject becomes freed from its present restraints, that it did not take her wholly by surprize. She frequently gave me hints of it. I remember her telling me at the ball, that I owed Mrs. Elton gratitude for her attentions to Miss Fairfax.— I hope this history of my conduct towards her will be admitted by you and my father as great extenuation of what you saw amiss. While you considered me as having sinned against Emma Woodhouse, I could deserve nothing from either. Acquit me here, and procure for me, when it is allowable, the acquittal and good wishes of that said Emma Woodhouse, whom I regard with so much brotherly affection, as to long to have her as deeply and as happily in love as myself.— Whatever strange things I said or did during that fortnight, you have now a key to. My heart was in Highbury, and my business was to get my body thither as often as might be, and with the least suspicion. If you remember any queernesses, set them all to the right account.— Of the pianoforte so much talked of, I feel it only necessary to say, that its being ordered was absolutely unknown to Miss F—, who would never have allowed me to send it, had any choice been given her.— The delicacy of her mind throughout the whole engagement, my dear madam, is much beyond my power of doing justice to. You will soon, I earnestly hope, know her thoroughly yourself.— No description can describe her. She must tell you herself what she is— yet not by word, for never was there a human creature who would so designedly suppress her own merit.—Since I began this letter, which will be longer than I foresaw, I have heard from her.— She gives a good account of her own health; but as she never complains, I dare not depend. I want to have your opinion of her looks. I know you will soon call on her; she is living in dread of the visit. Perhaps it is paid already. Let me hear from you without delay; I am impatient for a thousand particulars. Remember how few minutes I was at Randalls, and in how bewildered, how mad a state: and I am not much better yet; still insane either from happiness or misery. When I think of the kindness and favour I have met with, of her excellence and patience, and my uncle’s generosity, I am mad with joy: but when I recollect all the uneasiness I occasioned her, and how little I deserve to be forgiven, I am mad with anger. If I could but see her again!—But I must not propose it yet. My uncle has been too good for me to encroach.—I must still add to this long letter. You have not heard all that you ought to hear. I could not give any connected detail yesterday; but the suddenness, and, in one light, the unseasonableness with which the affair burst out, needs explanation; for though the event of the 26th ult., as you will conclude, immediately opened to me the happiest prospects, I should not have presumed on such early measures, but from the very particular circumstances, which left me not an hour to lose. I should myself have shrunk from any thing so hasty, and she would have felt every scruple of mine with multiplied strength and refinement.— But I had no choice. The hasty engagement she had entered into with that woman—Here, my dear madam, I was obliged to leave off abruptly, to recollect and compose myself.—I have been walking over the country, and am now, I hope, rational enough to make the rest of my letter what it ought to be.—It is, in fact, a most mortifying retrospect for me. I behaved shamefully. And here I can admit, that my manners to Miss W., in being unpleasant to Miss F., were highly blameable. She disapproved them, which ought to have been enough.—My plea of concealing the truth she did not think sufficient.—She was displeased; I thought unreasonably so: I thought her, on a thousand occasions, unnecessarily scrupulous and cautious: I thought her even cold. But she was always right. If I had followed her judgment, and subdued my spirits to the level of what she deemed proper, I should have escaped the greatest unhappiness I have ever known.—We quarrelled.— Do you remember the morning spent at Donwell?—There every little dissatisfaction that had occurred before came to a crisis. I was late; I met her walking home by herself, and wanted to walk with her, but she would not suffer it. She absolutely refused to allow me, which I then thought most unreasonable. Now, however, I see nothing in it but a very natural and consistent degree of discretion. While I, to blind the world to our engagement, was behaving one hour with objectionable particularity to another woman, was she to be consenting the next to a proposal which might have made every previous caution useless?—Had we been met walking together between Donwell and Highbury, the truth must have been suspected.— I was mad enough, however, to resent.—I doubted her affection. I doubted it more the next day on Box Hill; when, provoked by such conduct on my side, such shameful, insolent neglect of her, and such apparent devotion to Miss W., as it would have been impossible for any woman of sense to endure, she spoke her resentment in a form of words perfectly intelligible to me.— In short, my dear madam, it was a quarrel blameless on her side, abominable on mine; and I returned the same evening to Richmond, though I might have staid with you till the next morning, merely because I would be as angry with her as possible. Even then, I was not such a fool as not to mean to be reconciled in time; but I was the injured person, injured by her coldness, and I went away determined that she should make the first advances.—I shall always congratulate myself that you were not of the Box Hill party. Had you witnessed my behaviour there, I can hardly suppose you would ever have thought well of me again. Its effect upon her appears in the immediate resolution it produced: as soon as she found I was really gone from Randalls, she closed with the offer of that officious Mrs. Elton; the whole system of whose treatment of her, by the bye, has ever filled me with indignation and hatred. I must not quarrel with a spirit of forbearance which has been so richly extended towards myself; but, otherwise, I should loudly protest against the share of it which that woman has known.— ‘Jane,’ indeed!—You will observe that I have not yet indulged myself in calling her by that name, even to you. Think, then, what I must have endured in hearing it bandied between the Eltons with all the vulgarity of needless repetition, and all the insolence of imaginary superiority. Have patience with me, I shall soon have done.— She closed with this offer, resolving to break with me entirely, and wrote the next day to tell me that we never were to meet again.— She felt the engagement to be a source of repentance and misery to each: she dissolved it.—This letter reached me on the very morning of my poor aunt’s death. I answered it within an hour; but from the confusion of my mind, and the multiplicity of business falling on me at once, my answer, instead of being sent with all the many other letters of that day, was locked up in my writing-desk; and I, trusting that I had written enough, though but a few lines, to satisfy her, remained without any uneasiness.—I was rather disappointed that I did not hear from her again speedily; but I made excuses for her, and was too busy, and—may I add?— too cheerful in my views to be captious.—We removed to Windsor; and two days afterwards I received a parcel from her, my own letters all returned!—and a few lines at the same time by the post, stating her extreme surprize at not having had the smallest reply to her last; and adding, that as silence on such a point could not be misconstrued, and as it must be equally desirable to both to have every subordinate arrangement concluded as soon as possible, she now sent me, by a safe conveyance, all my letters, and requested, that if I could not directly command hers, so as to send them to Highbury within a week, I would forward them after that period to her at—: in short, the full direction to Mr. Smallridge’s, near Bristol, stared me in the face. I knew the name, the place, I knew all about it, and instantly saw what she had been doing. It was perfectly accordant with that resolution of character which I knew her to possess; and the secrecy she had maintained, as to any such design in her former letter, was equally descriptive of its anxious delicacy. For the world would not she have seemed to threaten me.—Imagine the shock; imagine how, till I had actually detected my own blunder, I raved at the blunders of the post.— What was to be done?—One thing only.—I must speak to my uncle. Without his sanction I could not hope to be listened to again.— I spoke; circumstances were in my favour; the late event had softened away his pride, and he was, earlier than I could have anticipated, wholly reconciled and complying; and could say at last, poor man! with a deep sigh, that he wished I might find as much happiness in the marriage state as he had done.—I felt that it would be of a different sort.—Are you disposed to pity me for what I must have suffered in opening the cause to him, for my suspense while all was at stake?—No; do not pity me till I reached Highbury, and saw how ill I had made her. Do not pity me till I saw her wan, sick looks.—I reached Highbury at the time of day when, from my knowledge of their late breakfast hour, I was certain of a good chance of finding her alone.—I was not disappointed; and at last I was not disappointed either in the object of my journey. A great deal of very reasonable, very just displeasure I had to persuade away. But it is done; we are reconciled, dearer, much dearer, than ever, and no moment’s uneasiness can ever occur between us again. Now, my dear madam, I will release you; but I could not conclude before. A thousand and a thousand thanks for all the kindness you have ever shewn me, and ten thousand for the attentions your heart will dictate towards her.—If you think me in a way to be happier than I deserve, I am quite of your opinion.—Miss W. calls me the child of good fortune. I hope she is right.—In one respect, my good fortune is undoubted, that of being able to subscribe myself,
“如果我昨天表达得清楚的话，这封信就在意料之中；但无论是否期望，我知道人们都会以坦诚和宽容的态度来阅读它。——你们都是善良的，我相信甚至需要你们所有的善良来考虑我过去的某些行为。——但我已经被原谅了是由一个还有更多怨恨的人提出的。当我写作的时候，我的勇气就增强了。富裕的人很难保持谦虚。我已经在两次赦免申请中取得了如此成功，以至于我可能会认为自己对你以及你的朋友中那些有过任何冒犯理由的人过于自信。——你们都必须努力理解确切的内容当我第一次到达兰德尔斯时，我的处境的性质；你一定认为我有一个秘密，必须不惜一切代价保守这个秘密。这就是事实。我是否有权将自己置于需要这种隐秘的境地，这是另一个问题。我不会在这里讨论它。为了让我认为这是正确的，我把每个吹毛求疵的人都提到了海布里的一座砖房，下面是窗框，上面是平开窗。我不敢公开地跟她说话；我在恩斯库姆当时的处境中遇到的困难一定是众所周知的，不需要定义；在我们在韦茅斯分别之前，我很幸运地取得了胜利，并诱使世界上最正直的女性出于慈善目的屈尊秘密订婚。——如果她拒绝，我会发疯的。——但你会准备好说，你这样做的希望是什么？——你期待什么？——任何事情，每件事——时间、机会、环境、缓慢的影响、突然的爆发、毅力和疲倦、健康和疾病。一切美好的可能性都摆在我面前，并且在获得她对信仰和通信的承诺时，我获得了第一个祝福。 如果您需要进一步的解释，我亲爱的女士，我很荣幸成为您丈夫的儿子，并且继承了对美好事物抱有希望的性格，这是任何房屋或土地继承的价值都无法比拟的。-看我然后，在这种情况下，我第一次访问兰德尔斯；——在这里我意识到错误，因为那次访问本来可以早点进行。你回头一看就会发现，直到费尔法克斯小姐到了海布里，我才来。既然你是被轻视的人，你会立即原谅我的；但我必须努力唤起父亲的同情心，提醒他，只要我不在他家，我就失去了认识你的福气。我希望，在和你一起度过的非常愉快的两周里，我的行为并没有让我受到谴责，除了一点之外。现在我要谈的是主要问题，这是我在属于你的行为中唯一重要的部分，它激起了我自己的焦虑，或者需要非常热切的解释。我怀着最崇高的敬意和最热烈的友谊提及伍德豪斯小姐；我父亲也许会认为我应该带着最深的羞辱补​​充一下。——昨天他说的几句话表达了他的观点，以及我承认自己可能受到的一些谴责。——我相信，我对伍德豪斯小姐的行为表明，不仅仅是应该的。——为了帮助隐藏对我来说如此重要的秘密，我被迫过度利用我们立即陷入的那种亲密关系。——我不能否认伍德豪斯小姐是我表面上的对象——但我确信你会相信这样的声明：如果我不相信她的冷漠，我就不会被任何自私的观点所诱导而继续下去。——尽管伍德豪斯小姐和蔼可亲、令人愉快，但她从来没有给我一种可能会产生依恋的年轻女性的想法；她完全没有任何依恋我的倾向，这既是我的信念，也是我的愿望。——她以一种轻松、友好、幽默的俏皮态度接受了我的关注，这完全适合我。我们似乎彼此理解。从我们的相对情况来看，这些关注是她应得的，而且被认为是这样。——伍德豪斯小姐是否在那两周到期之前开始真正理解我，我不能说；——当我打电话向她告别时，我记得我马上就要坦白真相，然后我就觉得她并非没有嫌疑。但我毫不怀疑她已经发现了我，至少在某种程度上是这样。——她可能没有猜到全部，但她的敏捷一定已经洞察了一部分。我不能怀疑这一点。你会发现，每当这个话题摆脱了目前的束缚时，她并不完全感到惊讶。她经常给我暗示。我记得她在舞会上告诉我，我要感谢埃尔顿夫人对费尔法克斯小姐的关心。——我希望我对她的这段行为史能够被你和我父亲承认，作为对你们所看到的错误的极大宽恕。虽然你认为我对艾玛·伍德豪斯犯了罪，但我不应该得到任何好处。在这里，让我无罪释放，在允许的情况下，为我争取艾玛·伍德豪斯的无罪释放和良好祝愿，我对她充满兄弟般的感情，渴望让她像我一样深深而幸福地相爱。 — 无论我在那两周里说了或做了什么奇怪的事情，你现在都有了答案。 我的心在海布里，我的任务就是尽可能多地把我的身体送到那里，并且尽量不引起怀疑。如果你还记得任何奇怪的地方，就把它们都记在正确的帐户上。——关于钢琴，我觉得有必要说的是，F小姐绝对不知道它的订购——她永远不会允许我这样做如果给她任何选择的话，请发送它。——我亲爱的女士，在整个订婚过程中，她的心思细腻，远远超出了我的能力范围。我真诚地希望，你很快就会亲自彻底了解她。——没有任何描述可以描述她。她必须亲自告诉你她是谁——但不是通过言语，因为从来没有一个人类会如此刻意地压制自己的优点。——自从我开始写这封信以来，这封信将比我预见的要长，我收到了她的来信.——她对自己的健康状况做了很好的描述；但她从不抱怨，我不敢依赖。我想听听你对她外表的看法。我知道你很快就会拜访她；她生活在对这次拜访的恐惧之中。也许已经付款了。请立即让我收到您的来信；我迫不及待地想了解一千个细节。还记得我在兰德尔斯的几分钟，以及一种多么困惑、多么疯狂的状态：我还没有好多少；仍然因为幸福或痛苦而疯狂。当我想到我所遇到的仁慈和恩惠，想到她的卓越和耐心，以及我叔叔的慷慨，我欣喜若狂；但当我回想起我给她带来的所有不安，以及我是多么不值得原谅，我气得发疯。如果我能再见到她就好了！——但我现在还不能提出这个建议。我的叔叔对我太好了，我不能侵犯。——我仍然必须在这封长信上补充一点。你还没有听到所有你应该听到的。 昨天我无法提供任何相关细节；但是，这件事的突然发生，而且从一方面来说，是不合时宜的，需要解释一下。正如你将得出的结论，虽然第 26 次终极比赛的事件立即向我展现了最幸福的前景，但我不应该假设如此早采取的措施，而是考虑到非常特殊的情况，这让我没有一个小时可以浪费。我自己应该对如此仓促的事情退缩，而她也会以加倍的力量和精致来感受到我的每一个顾虑。——但我别无选择。她与那个女人匆忙订下的婚约——在这里，我亲爱的夫人，我不得不突然停下来，回忆一下并让自己平静下来。——我已经在全国各地散步了，现在，我希望，有足够的理智来让我的信的其余部分保持应有的样子。——事实上，这对我来说是一次最令人羞愧的回顾。我的行为很可耻。在这里我可以承认，我对 W 小姐的态度让 F 小姐感到不愉快，这是应该受到高度谴责的。她不同意他们，这应该已经足够了。——她认为我隐瞒真相的请求还不够。——她很不高兴；她不同意。我这样想是不合理的：我曾一千次地认为她不必要地谨慎和谨慎：我什至认为她冷漠。但她总是对的。如果我听从了她的判断，把自己的情绪控制在她认为适当的水平，我就可以逃脱我所知道的最大的不幸。——我们吵架了。——你还记得在唐威尔度过的那个早晨吗？——那里每一个小事之前发生的不满变成了危机。我迟到了;我遇见她独自走回家，想和她一起走，但她不肯。她绝对不让我去，我当时觉得这是极不合理的。 然而现在，我在其中看到的只是一种非常自然且始终如一的自由裁量权。当我为了让全世界看不到我们的订婚而对另一个女人表现出令人反感的特殊性时，她是否会同意下一个可能使之前的所有警告变得毫无用处的求婚？和海布里，真相一定受到怀疑。——然而，我已经疯了，怨恨。——我怀疑她的感情。第二天在博士山，我更加怀疑了。当我的行为激怒了她，对她如此可耻、无礼的忽视，以及对W小姐如此明显的忠诚，任何有理智的女人都无法忍受时，她以言语的形式表达了她的怨恨。我完全可以理解。——简而言之，亲爱的女士，这场争吵对她来说是无可指摘的，对我来说却是令人厌恶的。当天晚上我就回到了里士满，尽管我可能会和你呆到第二天早上，只是因为我会尽可能地生她的气。即便如此，我也没有傻到不想及时和解。但我是受伤的人，被她的冷漠所伤，我走开时决定让她先主动。——我将永远庆幸自己，你不是博克斯山党的一员。如果你亲眼目睹了我在那里的行为，我很难想象你会再次对我产生好感。它对她的影响体现在它立即产生的决心：当她发现我真的离开兰德尔斯时，她就以那位多管闲事的埃尔顿夫人的提议结束了；他们对待她的整个制度，乃至再见，都让我充满了愤慨和仇恨。 我决不能与我如此宽容的精神争吵。但是，否则，我应该大声抗议那个女人所知道的那一部分。——确实是“简”！——你会发现我还没有沉迷于用这个名字称呼她，甚至是对你。那么，想一想，当我听到它在埃尔顿家族之间传播时，带着所有不必要的重复的粗俗和所有想象中的优越感的傲慢，我一定要忍受什么。对我要有耐心，我很快就会完成。-她以这个提议结束，决心与我完全分手，并在第二天写信告诉我我们再也不会见面了。-她觉得订婚是一个来源悔改和痛苦对每个人来说：她化解了它。——这封信是在我可怜的姨妈去世的那天早上收到的。我在一小时内回复了；但由于我的头脑一片混乱，而且还有大量的事务同时降临到我身上，我的回信并没有和那天的许多其他信件一起寄出，而是锁在我的写字台里。而我，相信我已经写了足够多的内容，尽管只有几行，足以让她满意，所以没有任何不安。——我很失望，因为我没有很快再次收到她的消息；我很失望。但我为她找了借口，而且太忙了，而且——我可以补充一下吗？——我的观点太乐观了，不能挑剔。——我们搬到了温莎；我们搬到了温莎。两天后我收到了她寄来的包裹，我自己的信全部退回了！——同时在邮件中写了几行，表示她对上次没有得到哪怕是最小的回复感到非常惊讶；并补充说，由于在这一点上的沉默不会被误解，而且双方都同样希望尽快完成每一项附属安排，所以她现在通过安全交通工具将我所有的信件寄给我，要求，如果我不能直接指挥她的，以便在一周内将它们发送到海布里，我会在那之后将它们转发给她，地址为：简而言之，通往布里斯托尔附近的斯莫里奇先生的完整方向，盯着我在脸上。我知道这个名字，那个地方，我知道一切，并且立刻就看到了她在做什么。这完全符合我所知道的她的性格决心。她对前一封信中的任何此类计划都保持保密，这同样说明了这封信的焦灼微妙。因为全世界都不会认为她似乎在威胁我。——想象一下我的震惊吧！想象一下，在我真正发现自己的错误之前，我如何对这个职位的错误大发雷霆。——该怎么办？——只有一件事。——我必须和我叔叔谈谈。没有他的批准，我就不能指望再次被倾听。——我说话了；情况对我有利；最近发生的事情软化了他的骄傲，他比我预料的更早地完全妥协并顺从了。最后可以说，可怜的人！深深地叹了口气，他希望我能像他一样在婚姻中找到同样的幸福。——我觉得那会是一种不同的幸福。——你愿意同情我在婚姻中所遭受的痛苦吗？当一切都岌岌可危时，他的原因是什么？请不要怜悯我，直到我到达海布里，看到我让她受到了多么严重的伤害。 在我看到她苍白、病态的表情之前，请不要怜悯我。——我在一天中的某个时间到达海布里，根据我对他们早餐时间较晚的了解，我确信很有可能找到她独自一人。——我并没有失望;最后，我对这次旅行的目的也没有感到失望。很多非常合理、非常公正的不满我不得不劝走。但事情已经完成了；我们和解了，比以往任何时候都更加亲密，更加亲密，我们之间再也不会出现任何时刻的不安。现在，亲爱的女士，我要释放你了；但我之前无法下结论。一千一千道感谢你对我的所有善意，一万道感谢你内心对她的关心。——如果你认为我在某种程度上比我应得的幸福，我完全同意你的意见.——W.小姐称我为好运之子。我希望她是对的。——从一方面来说，我的幸运是毋庸置疑的，能够订阅自己，

Your obliged and affectionate Son,
您充满感激和深情的儿子，

F. C. WESTON CHURCHILL.
F.C.韦斯顿·丘吉尔。

Chapter XV
第十五章

This letter must make its way to Emma’s feelings. She was obliged, in spite of her previous determination to the contrary, to do it all the justice that Mrs. Weston foretold. As soon as she came to her own name, it was irresistible; every line relating to herself was interesting, and almost every line agreeable; and when this charm ceased, the subject could still maintain itself, by the natural return of her former regard for the writer, and the very strong attraction which any picture of love must have for her at that moment. She never stopt till she had gone through the whole; and though it was impossible not to feel that he had been wrong, yet he had been less wrong than she had supposed—and he had suffered, and was very sorry—and he was so grateful to Mrs. Weston, and so much in love with Miss Fairfax, and she was so happy herself, that there was no being severe; and could he have entered the room, she must have shaken hands with him as heartily as ever.
这封信必须表达艾玛的感受。尽管她之前有相反的决心，但她还是不得不按照韦斯顿夫人的预言去做这一切。当她听到自己的名字时，就无法抗拒；每一句与她有关的台词都很有趣，而且几乎每一句台词都令人愉快。当这种魅力消失时，主体仍然可以保持自己，因为她自然地恢复了以前对作家的尊重，并且任何爱情图片在那一刻都必须对她产生强烈的吸引力。直到把整个过程讲完，她才停下来。虽然不可能不觉得自己错了，但他的错比她想象的要少——而且他受了苦，也很抱歉——而且他非常感激韦斯顿夫人，也非常爱她。和费尔法克斯小姐在一起，她自己也很高兴，没有什么严厉的。如果他能走进房间，她一定会像以前一样热情地与他握手。

She thought so well of the letter, that when Mr. Knightley came again, she desired him to read it. She was sure of Mrs. Weston’s wishing it to be communicated; especially to one, who, like Mr. Knightley, had seen so much to blame in his conduct.
她对这封信的评价非常好，以至于当奈特利先生再次到来时，她希望他能读一下这封信。她确信韦斯顿夫人希望将此事传达给她。尤其是对于像奈特利先生这样的人来说，他认为自己的行为有很多罪责。

‘I shall be very glad to look it over,’ said he; ‘but it seems long. I will take it home with me at night.’
“我很高兴能看一下，”他说。 '但看起来很长。晚上我会把它带回家。”

But that would not do. Mr. Weston was to call in the evening, and she must return it by him.
但那不行。韦斯顿先生晚上要来电话，她必须由他还给她。

‘I would rather be talking to you,’ he replied; ‘but as it seems a matter of justice, it shall be done.’
“我宁愿和你说话，”他回答道。 “但这似乎是正义问题，所以就必须完成。”

He began—stopping, however, almost directly to say, ‘Had I been offered the sight of one of this gentleman’s letters to his mother-in-law a few months ago, Emma, it would not have been taken with such indifference.’
然而，他开始——然而，几乎直接停下来说：“如果我看到这位先生几个月前写给他岳母艾玛的一封信，我就不会这么冷漠了。”

He proceeded a little farther, reading to himself; and then, with a smile, observed, ‘Humph! a fine complimentary opening: But it is his way. One man’s style must not be the rule of another’s. We will not be severe.’
他继续往前走一点，自言自语。然后微笑着说道：“哼！一个很好的恭维开头：但这就是他的方式。一个人的风格不能成为另一个人的规则。我们不会严厉。

‘It will be natural for me,’ he added shortly afterwards, ‘to speak my opinion aloud as I read. By doing it, I shall feel that I am near you. It will not be so great a loss of time: but if you dislike it—‘
“对我来说，在阅读时大声说出我的观点，”他不久后补充道。通过这样做，我会感觉我离你很近。这不会浪费太多时间：但如果你不喜欢它——”

‘Not at all. I should wish it.’
'一点也不。我应该希望如此。

Mr. Knightley returned to his reading with greater alacrity.
奈特利先生更加敏捷地继续阅读。

‘He trifles here,’ said he, ‘as to the temptation. He knows he is wrong, and has nothing rational to urge.—Bad.—He ought not to have formed the engagement.—‘His father’s disposition:’— he is unjust, however, to his father. Mr. Weston’s sanguine temper was a blessing on all his upright and honourable exertions; but Mr. Weston earned every present comfort before he endeavoured to gain it.—Very true; he did not come till Miss Fairfax was here.’
“他在这里不屑一顾，”他说，“对于诱惑。”他知道自己错了，也没有什么理性可劝。——糟糕。——他不应该订婚。——“他父亲的性情：”——然而，他对他父亲不公平。韦斯顿先生乐观的脾气有利于他所有正直和光荣的努力。但韦斯顿先生在努力获得眼前的一切安慰之前就已赢得了一切。——非常正确；直到费尔法克斯小姐来了，他才来。”

‘And I have not forgotten,’ said Emma, ‘how sure you were that he might have come sooner if he would. You pass it over very handsomely— but you were perfectly right.’
“我没有忘记，”艾玛说，“你多么确信，如果他愿意的话，他可能会早点来。你非常漂亮地传递了它——但你是完全正确的。

‘I was not quite impartial in my judgment, Emma:—but yet, I think— had you not been in the case—I should still have distrusted him.’
“我的判断不太公正，艾玛：——但是，我认为——如果你没有参与这个案子——我仍然会不信任他。”

When he came to Miss Woodhouse, he was obliged to read the whole of it aloud—all that related to her, with a smile; a look; a shake of the head; a word or two of assent, or disapprobation; or merely of love, as the subject required; concluding, however, seriously, and, after steady reflection, thus—
当他来到伍德豪斯小姐面前时，他不得不大声朗读整本书——所有与她有关的内容，都带着微笑；看看;摇头；一两句话表示同意或不同意；或仅仅是爱，如主题所要求的；然而，经过认真思考后得出的结论是——

‘Very bad—though it might have been worse.—Playing a most dangerous game. Too much indebted to the event for his acquittal.— No judge of his own manners by you.—Always deceived in fact by his own wishes, and regardless of little besides his own convenience.— Fancying you to have fathomed his secret. Natural enough!— his own mind full of intrigue, that he should suspect it in others.—Mystery; Finesse—how they pervert the understanding! My Emma, does not every thing serve to prove more and more the beauty of truth and sincerity in all our dealings with each other?’
“非常糟糕——尽管可能更糟。——玩一场最危险的游戏。”他的无罪释放对这起事件负有太多责任。——你没有判断他自己的举止。——实际上总是被他自己的意愿所欺骗，除了他自己的方便之外，不顾一切。——以为你已经了解了他的秘密。很自然！——他自己的脑子里充满了阴谋，他应该怀疑别人也有这种想法。——神秘；神秘；技巧——他们是如何曲解理解的！我的艾玛，难道不是每件事都越来越证明我们彼此交往中的真实和真诚之美吗？

Emma agreed to it, and with a blush of sensibility on Harriet’s account, which she could not give any sincere explanation of.
艾玛同意了，并因为哈丽特的缘故而脸红，但她对此无法做出任何真诚的解释。

‘You had better go on,’ said she.
“你最好继续说下去，”她说。

He did so, but very soon stopt again to say, ‘the pianoforte! Ah! That was the act of a very, very young man, one too young to consider whether the inconvenience of it might not very much exceed the pleasure. A boyish scheme, indeed!—I cannot comprehend a man’s wishing to give a woman any proof of affection which he knows she would rather dispense with; and he did know that she would have prevented the instrument’s coming if she could.’
他这样做了，但很快又停下来说：“钢琴！”啊!这是一个非常非常年轻的人的行为，他还太年轻，无法考虑这样做带来的不便是否会超过快乐。确实，这是一个孩子气的计划！——我无法理解一个男人竟然愿意向一个女人提供任何爱意的证明，而他知道她宁愿放弃；他确实知道，如果可以的话，她会阻止乐器的到来。

After this, he made some progress without any pause. Frank Churchill’s confession of having behaved shamefully was the first thing to call for more than a word in passing.
此后，他便没有任何停顿，取得了一些进展。弗兰克·丘吉尔承认自己的行为可耻，这是第一个需要多说的事情。

‘I perfectly agree with you, sir,’—was then his remark. ‘You did behave very shamefully. You never wrote a truer line.’ And having gone through what immediately followed of the basis of their disagreement, and his persisting to act in direct opposition to Jane Fairfax’s sense of right, he made a fuller pause to say, ‘This is very bad.—He had induced her to place herself, for his sake, in a situation of extreme difficulty and uneasiness, and it should have been his first object to prevent her from suffering unnecessarily.—She must have had much more to contend with, in carrying on the correspondence, than he could. He should have respected even unreasonable scruples, had there been such; but hers were all reasonable. We must look to her one fault, and remember that she had done a wrong thing in consenting to the engagement, to bear that she should have been in such a state of punishment.’
“我完全同意你的观点，先生，”他接着说道。 ‘你的行为确实非常可耻。你从来没有写过更真实的台词。”在了解了他们分歧的基础之后，以及他坚持直接反对简·费尔法克斯的正义感的行为之后，他停顿了一下说，“这非常糟糕” ——为了他的缘故，他诱使她将自己置于极度困难和不安的境地，而他的首要目标应该是防止她遭受不必要的痛苦。——她一定还有更多的事情要应对，在继续通信，比他能做到的。如果有的话，他甚至应该尊重无理的顾虑。但她的一切都是合理的。我们必须正视她的一个错误，记住她在同意订婚时做了一件错误的事情，让她承受这样的惩罚。”

Emma knew that he was now getting to the Box Hill party, and grew uncomfortable. Her own behaviour had been so very improper! She was deeply ashamed, and a little afraid of his next look. It was all read, however, steadily, attentively, and without the smallest remark; and, excepting one momentary glance at her, instantly withdrawn, in the fear of giving pain—no remembrance of Box Hill seemed to exist.
艾玛知道他现在要去参加博克斯山的聚会，她感到很不舒服。她自己的行为实在是太不检点了！她深感羞愧，还有点害怕他接下来的目光。然而，大家都认真地、认真地读了这一切，没有任何评论。而且，除了瞥了她一眼之外，她立刻就退缩了，因为害怕造成痛苦——似乎不记得博士山了。

‘There is no saying much for the delicacy of our good friends, the Eltons,’ was his next observation.—‘His feelings are natural.— What! actually resolve to break with him entirely!—She felt the engagement to be a source of repentance and misery to each— she dissolved it.—What a view this gives of her sense of his behaviour!—Well, he must be a most extraordinary—‘
“我们的好朋友埃尔顿一家的细腻程度无需多言，”他的下一个评论是。——“他的感情很自然。——什么！实际上决心与他彻底决裂！——她觉得订婚对双方来说都是悔恨和痛苦的根源——她解除了它。——这让她对他的行为有了多么深刻的认识！——好吧，他一定是一个最非凡的人——”

‘Nay, nay, read on.—You will find how very much he suffers.’
“不，不，继续读下去。——你会发现他承受了多么大的痛苦。”

‘I hope he does,’ replied Mr. Knightley coolly, and resuming the letter. ‘‘Smallridge!’—What does this mean? What is all this?’
“我希望他这样做，”奈特利先生冷静地回答，然后继续写信。 “斯莫里奇！”——这是什么意思？这一切是什么？

‘She had engaged to go as governess to Mrs. Smallridge’s children— a dear friend of Mrs. Elton’s—a neighbour of Maple Grove; and, by the bye, I wonder how Mrs. Elton bears the disappointment?’
“她已订婚，担任斯莫里奇夫人孩子们的家庭女教师——埃尔顿夫人的一位亲爱的朋友——枫树林的邻居；顺便说一句，我想知道埃尔顿夫人如何承受这种失望？

‘Say nothing, my dear Emma, while you oblige me to read—not even of Mrs. Elton. Only one page more. I shall soon have done. What a letter the man writes!’
“当你强迫我读书时，我亲爱的艾玛，什么也别说——即使是埃尔顿夫人的书。只剩下一页了。我很快就会完成。这个人写了一封多么好的信啊！

‘I wish you would read it with a kinder spirit towards him.’
“我希望你能以一种对他更友善的态度来阅读这封信。”

‘Well, there is feeling here.—He does seem to have suffered in finding her ill.—Certainly, I can have no doubt of his being fond of her. ‘Dearer, much dearer than ever.’ I hope he may long continue to feel all the value of such a reconciliation.—He is a very liberal thanker, with his thousands and tens of thousands.—‘Happier than I deserve.’ Come, he knows himself there. ‘Miss Woodhouse calls me the child of good fortune.’—Those were Miss Woodhouse’s words, were they?— And a fine ending—and there is the letter. The child of good fortune! That was your name for him, was it?’
“嗯，这里有感觉。——他似乎确实因为发现她生病而感到痛苦。——当然，我毫不怀疑他喜欢她。 “亲爱的，比以前更加亲爱的。”我希望他能长久地继续感受到这种和解的所有价值。——他是一个非常慷慨的感谢者，有成千上万的人。——“比我应得的幸福。”来吧，他在那里认识自己。 “伍德豪斯小姐称我为好运之子。”——这就是伍德豪斯小姐的话，是吗？——还有一个美好的结局——这就是那封信。真是有福气的孩子啊！这是你给他起的名字，是吗？

‘You do not appear so well satisfied with his letter as I am; but still you must, at least I hope you must, think the better of him for it. I hope it does him some service with you.’
“看来你对他的信不像我那么满意；但你仍然必须，至少我希望你必须，因此而对他有好感。我希望这能为他为你提供一些帮助。

‘Yes, certainly it does. He has had great faults, faults of inconsideration and thoughtlessness; and I am very much of his opinion in thinking him likely to be happier than he deserves: but still as he is, beyond a doubt, really attached to Miss Fairfax, and will soon, it may be hoped, have the advantage of being constantly with her, I am very ready to believe his character will improve, and acquire from hers the steadiness and delicacy of principle that it wants. And now, let me talk to you of something else. I have another person’s interest at present so much at heart, that I cannot think any longer about Frank Churchill. Ever since I left you this morning, Emma, my mind has been hard at work on one subject.’
是的，当然是这样。他有很大的过失，轻率、轻率的过失；我非常同意他的观点，认为他可能会比他应得的更幸福：但毫无疑问，他仍然真正依恋费尔法克斯小姐，并且很快就会，可以希望，拥有不断被关注的优势。和她在一起，我很愿意相信他的性格会得到改善，并从她身上获得它所需要的稳定和细腻的原则。现在，让我来谈谈别的事情。我现在非常关心另一个人的利益，以至于我无法再去想弗兰克·丘吉尔。艾玛，自从今天早上我离开你以来，我的脑子就一直在努力思考一个问题。

The subject followed; it was in plain, unaffected, gentlemanlike English, such as Mr. Knightley used even to the woman he was in love with, how to be able to ask her to marry him, without attacking the happiness of her father. Emma’s answer was ready at the first word. ‘While her dear father lived, any change of condition must be impossible for her. She could never quit him.’ Part only of this answer, however, was admitted. The impossibility of her quitting her father, Mr. Knightley felt as strongly as herself; but the inadmissibility of any other change, he could not agree to. He had been thinking it over most deeply, most intently; he had at first hoped to induce Mr. Woodhouse to remove with her to Donwell; he had wanted to believe it feasible, but his knowledge of Mr. Woodhouse would not suffer him to deceive himself long; and now he confessed his persuasion, that such a transplantation would be a risk of her father’s comfort, perhaps even of his life, which must not be hazarded. Mr. Woodhouse taken from Hartfield!—No, he felt that it ought not to be attempted. But the plan which had arisen on the sacrifice of this, he trusted his dearest Emma would not find in any respect objectionable; it was, that he should be received at Hartfield; that so long as her father’s happiness in other words his life—required Hartfield to continue her home, it should be his likewise.
接下来是主题；这是用朴素、不做作、有绅士风度的英语，就像奈特利先生对他所爱的女人使用的那样，如何能够向她求婚，而不影响她父亲的幸福。艾玛的回答从第一个字开始就已经准备好了。 “当她亲爱的父亲在世时，她的状况不可能有任何改变。她永远无法离开他。”然而，这个答案只被承认了一部分。奈特利先生和她自己一样强烈地感受到她不可能离开父亲。但不允许任何其他改变，他不能同意。他一直在最深入、最专注地思考这个问题。他起初希望说服伍德豪斯先生和她一起去唐威尔；他本来想相信这是可行的，但他对伍德豪斯先生的了解不会让他长期欺骗自己；现在他承认他的说服，这样的移植将危及她父亲的舒适，甚至可能危及他的生命，这是绝对不能冒险的。伍德豪斯先生从哈特菲尔德被带走了！——不，他觉得不应该尝试。但他相信他最亲爱的艾玛不会在任何方面反对这个以牺牲这一点为代价而产生的计划。是的，他应该在哈特菲尔德受到接待。只要她父亲的幸福，换句话说，他的生活——需要哈特菲尔德继续她的家，那也应该是他的。

Of their all removing to Donwell, Emma had already had her own passing thoughts. Like him, she had tried the scheme and rejected it; but such an alternative as this had not occurred to her. She was sensible of all the affection it evinced. She felt that, in quitting Donwell, he must be sacrificing a great deal of independence of hours and habits; that in living constantly with her father, and in no house of his own, there would be much, very much, to be borne with. She promised to think of it, and advised him to think of it more; but he was fully convinced, that no reflection could alter his wishes or his opinion on the subject. He had given it, he could assure her, very long and calm consideration; he had been walking away from William Larkins the whole morning, to have his thoughts to himself.
对于他们去唐威尔的一切，艾玛已经有了自己的想法。和他一样，她也尝试过这个计划，但又拒绝了。但她没有想到这样的选择。她能感受到它所流露出的所有感情。她觉得，离开唐威尔，他一定会牺牲很多时间和习惯的独立性。一直和她父亲住在一起，而不是住在他自己的房子里，会有很多很多的事情要忍受。她答应考虑一下，并劝他多考虑一下；但他完全相信，任何思考都不能改变他的愿望或他对这个问题的看法。他可以向她保证，他已经对此进行了长期而冷静的考虑。整个早上他都离开了威廉·拉金斯，想独处。

‘Ah! there is one difficulty unprovided for,’ cried Emma. ‘I am sure William Larkins will not like it. You must get his consent before you ask mine.’
'啊！ “有一个困难没有解决，”艾玛喊道。 “我确信威廉·拉金斯不会喜欢它。在你询问我之前，你必须先征得他的同意。

She promised, however, to think of it; and pretty nearly promised, moreover, to think of it, with the intention of finding it a very good scheme.
不过，她答应要考虑一下。而且，几乎答应考虑一下，并打算找到一个非常好的计划。

It is remarkable, that Emma, in the many, very many, points of view in which she was now beginning to consider Donwell Abbey, was never struck with any sense of injury to her nephew Henry, whose rights as heir-expectant had formerly been so tenaciously regarded. Think she must of the possible difference to the poor little boy; and yet she only gave herself a saucy conscious smile about it, and found amusement in detecting the real cause of that violent dislike of Mr. Knightley’s marrying Jane Fairfax, or any body else, which at the time she had wholly imputed to the amiable solicitude of the sister and the aunt.
值得注意的是，艾玛现在开始从许多、非常多的角度考虑唐威尔修道院，但她从未对她的侄子亨利感到受到任何伤害，因为亨利作为预期继承人的权利以前一直被剥夺。如此顽强地对待。我想她一定想到了这个可怜的小男孩可能面临的不同；然而，她对此只是有意识地俏皮一笑，并发现奈特利先生强烈厌恶与简·费尔法克斯或其他任何人结婚的真正原因，这让她觉得很有趣，当时她把这完全归咎于亲切的关怀。姐姐和阿姨的。

This proposal of his, this plan of marrying and continuing at Hartfield— the more she contemplated it, the more pleasing it became. His evils seemed to lessen, her own advantages to increase, their mutual good to outweigh every drawback. Such a companion for herself in the periods of anxiety and cheerlessness before her!— Such a partner in all those duties and cares to which time must be giving increase of melancholy!
他的这个提议，这个结婚并继续留在哈特菲尔德的计划——她越想越觉得高兴。他的邪恶似乎减少了，她自己的优点却增加了，他们的共同利益超过了所有缺点。在她面临焦虑和忧郁的时期，她是这样的一个伴侣！——在所有这些责任和关心中，这样的一个伴侣，时间一定会增加她的忧郁！

She would have been too happy but for poor Harriet; but every blessing of her own seemed to involve and advance the sufferings of her friend, who must now be even excluded from Hartfield. The delightful family party which Emma was securing for herself, poor Harriet must, in mere charitable caution, be kept at a distance from. She would be a loser in every way. Emma could not deplore her future absence as any deduction from her own enjoyment. In such a party, Harriet would be rather a dead weight than otherwise; but for the poor girl herself, it seemed a peculiarly cruel necessity that was to be placing her in such a state of unmerited punishment.
如果不是可怜的哈丽特，她本来会很幸福的。但她自己的每一份祝福似乎都牵涉并加剧了她朋友的痛苦，她现在甚至必须被排除在哈特菲尔德之外。艾玛为自己准备的令人愉快的家庭聚会，可怜的哈丽特，出于慈善的谨慎，必须与她保持距离。从各方面来说，她都会是一个失败者。艾玛无法为她未来的缺席而感到遗憾，因为这会影响她自己的享受。在这样的聚会上，哈丽特会成为一个沉重的负担。但对这个可怜的女孩来说，让她遭受如此不应有的惩罚似乎是一种特别残酷的必然。

In time, of course, Mr. Knightley would be forgotten, that is, supplanted; but this could not be expected to happen very early. Mr. Knightley himself would be doing nothing to assist the cure;— not like Mr. Elton. Mr. Knightley, always so kind, so feeling, so truly considerate for every body, would never deserve to be less worshipped than now; and it really was too much to hope even of Harriet, that she could be in love with more than three men in one year.
当然，随着时间的推移，奈特利先生会被遗忘，也就是说，被取代。但这不可能很快发生。奈特利先生本人不会采取任何措施来帮助治愈；——不像埃尔顿先生。奈特利先生总是那么仁慈、那么有感情、那么真诚地为每个人着想，他永远不应该像现在这样受到更少的崇拜。即使是哈丽特，也不能指望她能在一年内爱上三个以上的男人。

Chapter XVI
第十六章

It was a very great relief to Emma to find Harriet as desirous as herself to avoid a meeting. Their intercourse was painful enough by letter. How much worse, had they been obliged to meet!
艾玛发现哈丽特和她一样渴望避免见面，这让艾玛松了一口气。光是写信，他们的交往就已经够痛苦的了。如果他们不得不见面，那该多糟啊！

Harriet expressed herself very much as might be supposed, without reproaches, or apparent sense of ill-usage; and yet Emma fancied there was a something of resentment, a something bordering on it in her style, which increased the desirableness of their being separate.— It might be only her own consciousness; but it seemed as if an angel only could have been quite without resentment under such a stroke.
哈丽特的表达完全符合人们的想象，没有任何责备，也没有明显的受到虐待的感觉。然而艾玛觉得其中有一种怨恨，一种在她的风格中近乎怨恨的东西，这增加了他们分开的渴望。但似乎只有天使在这样的打击下才能毫无怨恨。

She had no difficulty in procuring Isabella’s invitation; and she was fortunate in having a sufficient reason for asking it, without resorting to invention.—There was a tooth amiss. Harriet really wished, and had wished some time, to consult a dentist. Mrs. John Knightley was delighted to be of use; any thing of ill health was a recommendation to her—and though not so fond of a dentist as of a Mr. Wingfield, she was quite eager to have Harriet under her care.—When it was thus settled on her sister’s side, Emma proposed it to her friend, and found her very persuadable.— Harriet was to go; she was invited for at least a fortnight; she was to be conveyed in Mr. Woodhouse’s carriage.—It was all arranged, it was all completed, and Harriet was safe in Brunswick Square.
她毫不费力地就得到了伊莎贝拉的邀请。她很幸运，有充分的理由提出这个问题，而无需诉诸编造。——有一颗牙齿错了。哈丽雅特真心希望并且一直希望花点时间去看牙医。约翰·奈特利夫人很高兴能帮上忙。任何健康状况不佳的事情都是向她提出的建议——虽然她不像温菲尔德先生那样喜欢牙医，但她非常渴望让哈丽特接受她的照顾。——当事情就这样在她姐姐这边解决后，艾玛提议她把这件事告诉了她的朋友，发现她很有说服力。——哈丽特要走了；她要走了。她被邀请至少两周；她将由伍德豪斯先生的马车运送。——一切都安排好了，一切都完成了，哈丽特安全地到达了不伦瑞克广场。

Now Emma could, indeed, enjoy Mr. Knightley’s visits; now she could talk, and she could listen with true happiness, unchecked by that sense of injustice, of guilt, of something most painful, which had haunted her when remembering how disappointed a heart was near her, how much might at that moment, and at a little distance, be enduring by the feelings which she had led astray herself.
现在艾玛确实可以享受奈特利先生的来访了。现在她可以说话了，她可以带着真正的幸福去听，不受那种不公正、内疚和一些最痛苦的感觉的抑制，当她想起一颗心在她身边是多么失望，那一刻有多么可能，这种感觉一直困扰着她。保持一点距离，忍受她自己误入歧途的感情。

The difference of Harriet at Mrs. Goddard’s, or in London, made perhaps an unreasonable difference in Emma’s sensations; but she could not think of her in London without objects of curiosity and employment, which must be averting the past, and carrying her out of herself.
哈丽特在戈达德夫人家或在伦敦的不同，也许使艾玛的感觉产生了不合理的差异。但她无法想象自己在伦敦时没有好奇心和工作的对象，这一定会扭转过去，使她摆脱自我。

She would not allow any other anxiety to succeed directly to the place in her mind which Harriet had occupied. There was a communication before her, one which she only could be competent to make— the confession of her engagement to her father; but she would have nothing to do with it at present.—She had resolved to defer the disclosure till Mrs. Weston were safe and well. No additional agitation should be thrown at this period among those she loved— and the evil should not act on herself by anticipation before the appointed time.—A fortnight, at least, of leisure and peace of mind, to crown every warmer, but more agitating, delight, should be hers.
她不允许任何其他焦虑直接占据哈丽特在她心中占据的位置。她面前有一项只有她才能做出的沟通——向父亲承认她订婚了；但目前她不想与此事有任何关系。——她决定推迟透露此事，直到韦斯顿夫人安全健康为止。在此期间，不应在她所爱的人中间引发额外的骚动，邪恶也不应在指定的时间之前通过预期对自己采取行动。至少两周的闲暇和内心的平静，给每一个温暖的人加冕，但更多激动、喜悦，都应该是她的。

She soon resolved, equally as a duty and a pleasure, to employ half an hour of this holiday of spirits in calling on Miss Fairfax.— She ought to go—and she was longing to see her; the resemblance of their present situations increasing every other motive of goodwill. It would be a secret satisfaction; but the consciousness of a similarity of prospect would certainly add to the interest with which she should attend to any thing Jane might communicate.
她很快就决定，既是一种责任，又是一种乐趣，利用这个节日的半个小时去拜访费尔法克斯小姐。他们目前处境的相似之处增加了所有其他善意的动机。这将是一种秘密的满足；但是，意识到前景的相似性肯定会增加她对简可能交流的任何事情的兴趣。

She went—she had driven once unsuccessfully to the door, but had not been into the house since the morning after Box Hill, when poor Jane had been in such distress as had filled her with compassion, though all the worst of her sufferings had been unsuspected.— The fear of being still unwelcome, determined her, though assured of their being at home, to wait in the passage, and send up her name.— She heard Patty announcing it; but no such bustle succeeded as poor Miss Bates had before made so happily intelligible.—No; she heard nothing but the instant reply of, ‘Beg her to walk up;’—and a moment afterwards she was met on the stairs by Jane herself, coming eagerly forward, as if no other reception of her were felt sufficient.— Emma had never seen her look so well, so lovely, so engaging. There was consciousness, animation, and warmth; there was every thing which her countenance or manner could ever have wanted.— She came forward with an offered hand; and said, in a low, but very feeling tone,
她走了——她曾经成功地开车到门口，但自从离开博克斯山的那天早上起，她就再也没有进过房子，当时可怜的简陷入了如此痛苦的境地，使她充满了同情心，尽管她所有最糟糕的痛苦都已经过去了。 ——尽管她确信他们在家，但由于害怕仍然不受欢迎，她决定在过道里等待，并报出她的名字。——她听到帕蒂宣布了；但这种喧嚣并没有像可怜的贝茨小姐以前那样令人愉快地理解。她只听到了立即的回答，“求她走上来”——过了一会儿，简本人在楼梯上迎接了她，急切地向前走来，好像没有其他的接待方式足以满足她的需求。从未见过她如此美丽、如此可爱、如此迷人。有意识、有活力、有温暖；她的表情和举止完全符合她的要求。——她向前伸出了手。然后用一种低沉但充满感情的语气说道：

‘This is most kind, indeed!—Miss Woodhouse, it is impossible for me to express—I hope you will believe—Excuse me for being so entirely without words.’
“这确实是最仁慈的！——伍德豪斯小姐，我无法表达——我希望你会相信——请原谅我完全没有言语。”

Emma was gratified, and would soon have shewn no want of words, if the sound of Mrs. Elton’s voice from the sitting-room had not checked her, and made it expedient to compress all her friendly and all her congratulatory sensations into a very, very earnest shake of the hand.
爱玛很高兴，如果不是客厅里传来的埃尔顿夫人的声音阻止了她的话，她很快就会表现出不需言语的样子，并且方便地将她所有的友好和所有的祝贺感觉压缩成一种非常，非常认真地握手。

Mrs. Bates and Mrs. Elton were together. Miss Bates was out, which accounted for the previous tranquillity. Emma could have wished Mrs. Elton elsewhere; but she was in a humour to have patience with every body; and as Mrs. Elton met her with unusual graciousness, she hoped the rencontre would do them no harm.
贝茨夫人和埃尔顿夫人在一起。贝茨小姐出去了，这才解释了之前的平静。艾玛本可以希望埃尔顿夫人去别的地方；但事实并非如此。但她性格开朗，对每个人都有耐心。当埃尔顿夫人以不同寻常的亲切态度迎接她时，她希望这次相遇不会对他们造成伤害。

She soon believed herself to penetrate Mrs. Elton’s thoughts, and understand why she was, like herself, in happy spirits; it was being in Miss Fairfax’s confidence, and fancying herself acquainted with what was still a secret to other people. Emma saw symptoms of it immediately in the expression of her face; and while paying her own compliments to Mrs. Bates, and appearing to attend to the good old lady’s replies, she saw her with a sort of anxious parade of mystery fold up a letter which she had apparently been reading aloud to Miss Fairfax, and return it into the purple and gold reticule by her side, saying, with significant nods,
她很快就相信自己能够洞悉埃尔顿夫人的想法，并理解为什么她和她自己一样心情愉快；这是费尔法克斯小姐的秘密，并且幻想自己了解对其他人来说仍然是秘密的事情。艾玛立即从她脸上的表情中看出了这种症状。当她自己向贝茨太太致意，并似乎在注意这位好老太太的答复时，她看到她带着一种焦虑的神秘感折叠了一封信，显然她一直在大声朗读给费尔法克斯小姐，然后返回将其放入她身边的紫色和金色手提袋中，并意味深长地点点头说道：

‘We can finish this some other time, you know. You and I shall not want opportunities. And, in fact, you have heard all the essential already. I only wanted to prove to you that Mrs. S. admits our apology, and is not offended. You see how delightfully she writes. Oh! she is a sweet creature! You would have doated on her, had you gone.—But not a word more. Let us be discreet— quite on our good behaviour.—Hush!—You remember those lines— I forget the poem at this moment:
“我们可以改天再完成这件事，你知道的。你我都不会想要机会。事实上，您已经听到了所有必要的内容。我只是想向你证明S女士承认我们的道歉，并且没有被冒犯。你看她写得多么令人愉快。哦！她是一个可爱的人！如果你走了的话，你会非常宠爱她的。——但不再多说一句话。让我们谨慎一点——非常注重我们的良好行为。——嘘！——你还记得那些诗句——我此刻忘记了这首诗：

‘For when a lady’s in the case,
“当一位女士在案子里时，

‘You know all other things give place.’
“你知道所有其他的事情都会让位。”

Now I say, my dear, in our case, for lady, read——mum! a word to the wise.—I am in a fine flow of spirits, an’t I? But I want to set your heart at ease as to Mrs. S.—My representation, you see, has quite appeased her.’
现在我说，亲爱的，就我们而言，女士，读——妈妈！智者的话——我心情很好，不是吗？但我想让你对 S 夫人放心——你看，我的代表已经让她很满意了。

And again, on Emma’s merely turning her head to look at Mrs. Bates’s knitting, she added, in a half whisper,
当艾玛只是转过头去看贝茨夫人的编织时，她又低声补充道：

‘I mentioned no names, you will observe.—Oh! no; cautious as a minister of state. I managed it extremely well.’
“你会发现，我没有提到任何名字。——哦！不;作为国务大臣要谨慎。我做得非常好。

Emma could not doubt. It was a palpable display, repeated on every possible occasion. When they had all talked a little while in harmony of the weather and Mrs. Weston, she found herself abruptly addressed with,
艾玛无法怀疑。这是一种明显的展示，在任何可能的场合都会重复。当他们就天气和韦斯顿夫人和谐地交谈了一会儿后，她发现自己突然被问到：

‘Do not you think, Miss Woodhouse, our saucy little friend here is charmingly recovered?—Do not you think her cure does Perry the highest credit?—(here was a side-glance of great meaning at Jane.) Upon my word, Perry has restored her in a wonderful short time!— Oh! if you had seen her, as I did, when she was at the worst!’— And when Mrs. Bates was saying something to Emma, whispered farther, ‘We do not say a word of any assistance that Perry might have; not a word of a certain young physician from Windsor.—Oh! no; Perry shall have all the credit.’
“伍德豪斯小姐，你不觉得我们俏皮的小朋友已经痊愈了吗？——你不觉得她的治愈对佩里来说是最高的荣誉吗？——（这是一个意味深长的侧视简。）我保证，佩里在极短的时间内使她康复了！——哦！如果你像我一样在她最糟糕的时候看到过她就好了！温莎的某个年轻医生没有说过一句话。——哦！不;佩里应享有所有功劳。

‘I have scarce had the pleasure of seeing you, Miss Woodhouse,’ she shortly afterwards began, ‘since the party to Box Hill. Very pleasant party. But yet I think there was something wanting. Things did not seem—that is, there seemed a little cloud upon the spirits of some.—So it appeared to me at least, but I might be mistaken. However, I think it answered so far as to tempt one to go again. What say you both to our collecting the same party, and exploring to Box Hill again, while the fine weather lasts?— It must be the same party, you know, quite the same party, not one exception.’
“伍德豪斯小姐，自从去博克斯山参加聚会以来，我很少有幸见到你，”她不久后开始说道。非常愉快的聚会。但我仍然认为还有一些不足。事情似乎并非如此——也就是说，有些人的精神上似乎有一点阴云。——至少在我看来是这样，但我可能是错的。然而，我认为它的回答足以诱惑人们再去一次。你们对我们在好天气持续期间聚集同一个聚会并再次探索博士山有何看法？——这一定是同一个聚会，你知道，完全是同一个聚会，没有一个例外。

Soon after this Miss Bates came in, and Emma could not help being diverted by the perplexity of her first answer to herself, resulting, she supposed, from doubt of what might be said, and impatience to say every thing.
不久之后，贝茨小姐进来了，艾玛第一次对自己的回答感到困惑，她不禁感到困惑，她猜想，这是因为对可能说的话感到怀疑，而且不耐烦地说出每件事。

‘Thank you, dear Miss Woodhouse, you are all kindness.—It is impossible to say—Yes, indeed, I quite understand—dearest Jane’s prospects— that is, I do not mean.—But she is charmingly recovered.— How is Mr. Woodhouse?—I am so glad.—Quite out of my power.— Such a happy little circle as you find us here.—Yes, indeed.— Charming young man!—that is—so very friendly; I mean good Mr. Perry!— such attention to Jane!’—And from her great, her more than commonly thankful delight towards Mrs. Elton for being there, Emma guessed that there had been a little show of resentment towards Jane, from the vicarage quarter, which was now graciously overcome.— After a few whispers, indeed, which placed it beyond a guess, Mrs. Elton, speaking louder, said,
“谢谢你，亲爱的伍德豪斯小姐，你真是好心。——很难说——是的，确实，我很理解——最亲爱的简的前景——也就是说，我不是这个意思。——但她恢复得很好。——怎么样？伍德豪斯先生？——我太高兴了。——完全超出了我的能力范围。——你在这里发现我们是一个多么快乐的小圈子。——是的，确实如此。——迷人的年轻人！——也就是说——非常友好；我的意思是好佩里先生！——对简如此关注！——从她对埃尔顿夫人在场的巨大的、比平常更感激的高兴中，艾玛猜想，她对简表现出了一点怨恨，因为牧师住宅区，现在已经被宽宏地克服了。——确实，经过几声耳语，这超出了猜测，埃尔顿夫人大声说道：

‘Yes, here I am, my good friend; and here I have been so long, that anywhere else I should think it necessary to apologise; but, the truth is, that I am waiting for my lord and master. He promised to join me here, and pay his respects to you.’
“是的，我在这里，我的好朋友；我在这里呆了这么久，以至于在其他任何地方我都认为有必要道歉。但事实上，我正在等待我的主人。他答应来这里和我一起，并向你表示敬意。

‘What! are we to have the pleasure of a call from Mr. Elton?— That will be a favour indeed! for I know gentlemen do not like morning visits, and Mr. Elton’s time is so engaged.’
'什么！我们是否有幸接到埃尔顿先生的电话？——这确实是一个恩惠！因为我知道先生们不喜欢早上拜访，而埃尔顿先生的时间是如此忙碌。

‘Upon my word it is, Miss Bates.—He really is engaged from morning to night.—There is no end of people’s coming to him, on some pretence or other.—The magistrates, and overseers, and churchwardens, are always wanting his opinion. They seem not able to do any thing without him.—‘Upon my word, Mr. E.,’ I often say, ‘rather you than I.— I do not know what would become of my crayons and my instrument, if I had half so many applicants.’—Bad enough as it is, for I absolutely neglect them both to an unpardonable degree.—I believe I have not played a bar this fortnight.—However, he is coming, I assure you: yes, indeed, on purpose to wait on you all.’ And putting up her hand to screen her words from Emma—‘A congratulatory visit, you know.—Oh! yes, quite indispensable.’
“据我所知，贝茨小姐。——他确实从早到晚都很忙碌。——人们以某种​​借口或其他方式来找他，没完没了。——地方法官、监督者和教堂执事们总是想要他的意见。没有他，他们似乎什么也做不了。——“说实话，E 先生，”我经常说，“是你而不是我。——我不知道如果我有一半的申请者。”——这已经够糟糕了，因为我绝对忽视了他们两个，达到了不可原谅的程度。——我相信我这两周没有去酒吧玩。——但是，他会来的，我向你保证：是的，确实，是故意要等你们大家的。”她举起手来掩饰艾玛的话——“你知道，这是一次祝贺访问。——哦！是的，非常不可或缺。

Miss Bates looked about her, so happily!—
贝茨小姐环顾四周，非常高兴！——

‘He promised to come to me as soon as he could disengage himself from Knightley; but he and Knightley are shut up together in deep consultation.—Mr. E. is Knightley’s right hand.’
“他答应一旦脱离奈特利就会来找我；但他和奈特利被关在一起进行深入的协商。 E.是奈特利的右手。

Emma would not have smiled for the world, and only said, ‘Is Mr. Elton gone on foot to Donwell?—He will have a hot walk.’
艾玛不会对全世界微笑，只是说：“埃尔顿先生步行去唐威尔了吗？——他会走得很热。”

‘Oh! no, it is a meeting at the Crown, a regular meeting. Weston and Cole will be there too; but one is apt to speak only of those who lead.—I fancy Mr. E. and Knightley have every thing their own way.’
'哦！不，这是皇家会议，例行会议。韦斯顿和科尔也会在那里；但人们倾向于只谈论那些领导者。——我想 E 先生和奈特利在每件事上都有他们自己的方式。

‘Have not you mistaken the day?’ said Emma. ‘I am almost certain that the meeting at the Crown is not till to-morrow.—Mr. Knightley was at Hartfield yesterday, and spoke of it as for Saturday.’
“你是不是搞错了日子？”艾玛说。 “我几乎可以肯定，皇冠会议要到明天才举行。”奈特利昨天在哈特菲尔德，并谈到了周六的情况。

‘Oh! no, the meeting is certainly to-day,’ was the abrupt answer, which denoted the impossibility of any blunder on Mrs. Elton’s side.— ‘I do believe,’ she continued, ‘this is the most troublesome parish that ever was. We never heard of such things at Maple Grove.’
'哦！不，会议肯定是今天，”这是一个突然的回答，这表明埃尔顿夫人这一边不可能犯任何错误。——“我确实相信，”她继续说，“这是有史以来最麻烦的教区。我们在枫林从来没有听说过这样的事情。”

‘Your parish there was small,’ said Jane.
“你们那里的教区很小，”简说。

‘Upon my word, my dear, I do not know, for I never heard the subject talked of.’
“据我所知，亲爱的，我不知道，因为我从未听说过这个话题。”

‘But it is proved by the smallness of the school, which I have heard you speak of, as under the patronage of your sister and Mrs. Bragge; the only school, and not more than five-and-twenty children.’
“但这可以从学校规模上证明，我听你说过，学校是在你妹妹和布拉格夫人的资助下的；唯一的学校，不超过五二十个孩子。”

‘Ah! you clever creature, that’s very true. What a thinking brain you have! I say, Jane, what a perfect character you and I should make, if we could be shaken together. My liveliness and your solidity would produce perfection.—Not that I presume to insinuate, however, that some people may not think you perfection already.—But hush!— not a word, if you please.’
'啊！你这个聪明的生物，确实如此。你的大脑多么有思想啊！我说，简，如果我们能一起震动的话，你和我应该塑造出多么完美的性格啊。我的活泼和你的扎实会产生完美。——然而，我并不是想暗示有些人可能已经不认为你已经完美了。——但是安静！——如果你愿意的话，不要说一句话。

It seemed an unnecessary caution; Jane was wanting to give her words, not to Mrs. Elton, but to Miss Woodhouse, as the latter plainly saw. The wish of distinguishing her, as far as civility permitted, was very evident, though it could not often proceed beyond a look.
这似乎是一种不必要的警告。简想表达的不是埃尔顿夫人，而是伍德豪斯小姐，后者清楚地看到了这一点。在礼貌允许的范围内，想要与她区别开来的愿望是非常明显的，尽管通常只能通过眼神来实现。

Mr. Elton made his appearance. His lady greeted him with some of her sparkling vivacity.
埃尔顿先生出现了。他的夫人以一种闪闪发光的活泼态度向他打招呼。

‘Very pretty, sir, upon my word; to send me on here, to be an encumbrance to my friends, so long before you vouchsafe to come!— But you knew what a dutiful creature you had to deal with. You knew I should not stir till my lord and master appeared.— Here have I been sitting this hour, giving these young ladies a sample of true conjugal obedience—for who can say, you know, how soon it may be wanted?’
“非常漂亮，先生，我保证；早在你答应来之前就派我到这里来，成为我朋友们的累赘！——但你知道你必须面对一个多么尽职的人。你知道在我的主人和主人出现之前我不应该动弹。——这个时候我一直坐在这里，给这些年轻女士们一个真正的夫妻服从的样本——因为谁能说，你知道，多久可能需要它？

Mr. Elton was so hot and tired, that all this wit seemed thrown away. His civilities to the other ladies must be paid; but his subsequent object was to lament over himself for the heat he was suffering, and the walk he had had for nothing.
埃尔顿先生又热又累，所有的智慧似乎都被抛弃了。他对其他女士的礼貌必须得到回报；但他接下来的目的是为自己所遭受的炎热和徒劳的步行而哀叹。

‘When I got to Donwell,’ said he, ‘Knightley could not be found. Very odd! very unaccountable! after the note I sent him this morning, and the message he returned, that he should certainly be at home till one.’
“当我到达唐威尔时，”他说，“找不到奈特利。很奇怪！非常不负责任！今天早上我给他发了一张便条，他又给我回了信息，说他一定要在家待到下午一点。”

‘Donwell!’ cried his wife.—‘My dear Mr. E., you have not been to Donwell!—You mean the Crown; you come from the meeting at the Crown.’
“唐威尔！”他的妻子喊道。——“亲爱的E先生，你还没去过唐威尔！——你指的是王室；你来自皇冠的会议。

‘No, no, that’s to-morrow; and I particularly wanted to see Knightley to-day on that very account.—Such a dreadful broiling morning!— I went over the fields too—(speaking in a tone of great ill-usage,) which made it so much the worse. And then not to find him at home! I assure you I am not at all pleased. And no apology left, no message for me. The housekeeper declared she knew nothing of my being expected.— Very extraordinary!—And nobody knew at all which way he was gone. Perhaps to Hartfield, perhaps to the Abbey Mill, perhaps into his woods.— Miss Woodhouse, this is not like our friend Knightley!—Can you explain it?’
“不，不，那是明天；”正是因为这个原因，我今天特别想见奈特利。——真是一个可怕的炎热早晨！——我也去了田野——（用一种非常不礼貌的语气说话）这让情况变得更糟。然后在家就找不到他了！我向你保证我一点也不高兴。没有留下任何道歉，也没有给我留言。管家声称她对我的到来一无所知。——非常了不起！——没有人知道他去了哪里。也许去哈特菲尔德，也许去修道院磨坊，也许去他的树林。——伍德豪斯小姐，这不像我们的朋友奈特利！——你能解释一下吗？

Emma amused herself by protesting that it was very extraordinary, indeed, and that she had not a syllable to say for him.
艾玛自娱自乐地抗议说这确实很不寻常，而且她没有一个音节可以为他说话。

‘I cannot imagine,’ said Mrs. Elton, (feeling the indignity as a wife ought to do,) ‘I cannot imagine how he could do such a thing by you, of all people in the world! The very last person whom one should expect to be forgotten!—My dear Mr. E., he must have left a message for you, I am sure he must.—Not even Knightley could be so very eccentric;— and his servants forgot it. Depend upon it, that was the case: and very likely to happen with the Donwell servants, who are all, I have often observed, extremely awkward and remiss.—I am sure I would not have such a creature as his Harry stand at our sideboard for any consideration. And as for Mrs. Hodges, Wright holds her very cheap indeed.—She promised Wright a receipt, and never sent it.’
“我无法想象，”埃尔顿夫人说，（感受到作为一个妻子应该做的侮辱，）“我无法想象他怎么能对你这个世界上所有人做出这样的事！”最不应该被遗忘的人！——我亲爱的E先生，他一定给你留了口信，我相信他一定。——即使是奈特利也不会如此古怪；——他的仆人们忘记了它。相信它，情况就是这样：而且很可能发生在唐威尔家的仆人身上，我经常观察到，他们都是极其笨拙和粗心的人。——我确信我不会让像他的哈利这样的生物站在我们的房间里。出于任何考虑的餐边柜。至于霍奇斯夫人，赖特确实非常看不起她。——她答应赖特一张收据，但从未寄出。

‘I met William Larkins,’ continued Mr. Elton, ‘as I got near the house, and he told me I should not find his master at home, but I did not believe him.—William seemed rather out of humour. He did not know what was come to his master lately, he said, but he could hardly ever get the speech of him. I have nothing to do with William’s wants, but it really is of very great importance that I should see Knightley to-day; and it becomes a matter, therefore, of very serious inconvenience that I should have had this hot walk to no purpose.’
“我遇到了威廉·拉金斯，”埃尔顿先生继续说道，“当我接近房子时，他告诉我，我不应该在家里找到他的主人，但我不相信他。——威廉似乎很不幽默。他说，他不知道他的主人最近发生了什么，但他几乎听不到他的讲话。我与威廉的愿望无关，但我今天见到奈特利确实非常重要。因此，这件事给我带来了非常严重的不便，因为我本来这样炎热的步行毫无意义。

Emma felt that she could not do better than go home directly. In all probability she was at this very time waited for there; and Mr. Knightley might be preserved from sinking deeper in aggression towards Mr. Elton, if not towards William Larkins.
艾玛觉得她最好直接回家。很可能此时她正在那里等待。奈特利先生也许不会对埃尔顿先生（即使不是威廉·拉金斯）陷入更深的攻击。

She was pleased, on taking leave, to find Miss Fairfax determined to attend her out of the room, to go with her even downstairs; it gave her an opportunity which she immediately made use of, to say,
离开时，她很高兴地发现费尔法克斯小姐决定陪她走出房间，甚至陪她下楼；这给了她一个机会，她立即利用了这个机会，说道：

‘It is as well, perhaps, that I have not had the possibility. Had you not been surrounded by other friends, I might have been tempted to introduce a subject, to ask questions, to speak more openly than might have been strictly correct.—I feel that I should certainly have been impertinent.’
“也许，我还没有这种可能性。”如果你周围没有其他朋友，我可能会想引入一个话题，提出问题，比严格正确的情况更公开地说话。——我觉得我当然应该表现得无礼。

‘Oh!’ cried Jane, with a blush and an hesitation which Emma thought infinitely more becoming to her than all the elegance of all her usual composure—‘there would have been no danger. The danger would have been of my wearying you. You could not have gratified me more than by expressing an interest—. Indeed, Miss Woodhouse, (speaking more collectedly,) with the consciousness which I have of misconduct, very great misconduct, it is particularly consoling to me to know that those of my friends, whose good opinion is most worth preserving, are not disgusted to such a degree as to—I have not time for half that I could wish to say. I long to make apologies, excuses, to urge something for myself. I feel it so very due. But, unfortunately—in short, if your compassion does not stand my friend—‘
“哦！”简喊道，脸红了，犹豫了一下，爱玛认为这比她平时的优雅镇定更适合她——“不会有危险的。”危险在于我让你感到厌倦。你没有比表达兴趣更让我满意的了——。确实，伍德豪斯小姐，（更冷静地说）我意识到自己的不当行为，非常严重的不当行为，尤其令我感到欣慰的是，我的朋友们，他们的好意见最值得保留，他们并不厌恶到了这样的程度——我没有时间说我想说的一半。我渴望为自己道歉、找借口、敦促自己做点什么。我觉得这是非常应有的。但是，不幸的是——简而言之，如果你的同情心不能忍受我的朋友——”

‘Oh! you are too scrupulous, indeed you are,’ cried Emma warmly, and taking her hand. ‘You owe me no apologies; and every body to whom you might be supposed to owe them, is so perfectly satisfied, so delighted even—‘
'哦！ “你太谨慎了，确实如此。”艾玛热情地喊道，握住了她的手。 ‘你不欠我任何道歉；每一个你应该欠他们的人都非常满意，甚至很高兴——”

‘You are very kind, but I know what my manners were to you.— So cold and artificial!—I had always a part to act.—It was a life of deceit!—I know that I must have disgusted you.’
“你很友善，但我知道我对你的态度是什么。——那么冷漠和做作！——我总是有一个角色要表演。——这是一种欺骗的生活！——我知道我一定让你感到厌恶。”

‘Pray say no more. I feel that all the apologies should be on my side. Let us forgive each other at once. We must do whatever is to be done quickest, and I think our feelings will lose no time there. I hope you have pleasant accounts from Windsor?’
‘请不要再说了。我觉得所有的道歉都应该站在我这边。让我们立刻互相原谅吧。我们必须以最快的速度做任何事情，我想我们的感情不会浪费时间。我希望你在温莎有愉快的经历？

‘Very.’
'非常。'

‘And the next news, I suppose, will be, that we are to lose you— just as I begin to know you.’
“我想，下一个消息就是我们将失去你——就在我开始了解你的时候。”

‘Oh! as to all that, of course nothing can be thought of yet. I am here till claimed by Colonel and Mrs. Campbell.’
'哦！当然，至于这一切，目前还无法想出任何办法。我一直在这里，直到坎贝尔上校和夫人认领为止。

‘Nothing can be actually settled yet, perhaps,’ replied Emma, smiling—‘but, excuse me, it must be thought of.’
“也许，目前还没有什么事情能够真正解决，”艾玛微笑着回答道，“但是，对不起，必须考虑一下。”

The smile was returned as Jane answered,
当简回答时，笑容又回来了：

‘You are very right; it has been thought of. And I will own to you, (I am sure it will be safe), that so far as our living with Mr. Churchill at Enscombe, it is settled. There must be three months, at least, of deep mourning; but when they are over, I imagine there will be nothing more to wait for.’
‘你说得非常对；已经想到了。我向你保证（我相信这会是安全的），就我们与丘吉尔先生在恩斯库姆的生活而言，一切都已经解决了。至少必须有三个月的深度哀悼；但当他们结束时，我想就没有什么可以等待的了。

‘Thank you, thank you.—This is just what I wanted to be assured of.— Oh! if you knew how much I love every thing that is decided and open!— Good-bye, good-bye.’
“谢谢你，谢谢你。——这正是我想要得到的保证。——哦！如果你知道我是多么喜欢所有已决定和开放的事情！——再见，再见。

Chapter XVII
第十七章

Mrs. Weston’s friends were all made happy by her safety; and if the satisfaction of her well-doing could be increased to Emma, it was by knowing her to be the mother of a little girl. She had been decided in wishing for a Miss Weston. She would not acknowledge that it was with any view of making a match for her, hereafter, with either of Isabella’s sons; but she was convinced that a daughter would suit both father and mother best. It would be a great comfort to Mr. Weston, as he grew older— and even Mr. Weston might be growing older ten years hence—to have his fireside enlivened by the sports and the nonsense, the freaks and the fancies of a child never banished from home; and Mrs. Weston— no one could doubt that a daughter would be most to her; and it would be quite a pity that any one who so well knew how to teach, should not have their powers in exercise again.
韦斯顿夫人的朋友们都为她的安全感到高兴。如果爱玛能够因为自己的善行而感到更加满足的话，那就是知道她是一个小女孩的母亲。她已经决定想要一个韦斯顿小姐。她不承认这样做是为了让她今后与伊莎贝拉的两个儿子相亲。但她坚信，女儿最适合父亲和母亲。对于韦斯顿先生来说，随着年龄的增长——甚至十年后韦斯顿先生可能也会变老——让他的炉边充满了孩子们从未有过的体育运动、胡言乱语、怪诞和幻想，这对他来说是一种极大的安慰。被逐出家门；还有韦斯顿夫人——没有人会怀疑女儿对她来说是最重要的。非常遗憾的是，任何一个如此懂得如何教学的人，不应该再次行使他们的权力。

‘She has had the advantage, you know, of practising on me,’ she continued—‘like La Baronne d’Almane on La Comtesse d’Ostalis, in Madame de Genlis’ Adelaide and Theodore, and we shall now see her own little Adelaide educated on a more perfect plan.’
“你知道，她有一个优势，就是在我身上练习，”她继续说道，“就像《阿尔曼男爵》中的《奥斯塔利斯伯爵夫人》，《让利斯夫人》中的《阿德莱德和西奥多》，我们现在将看到她自己的小阿德莱德制定了一个更完美的计划。

‘That is,’ replied Mr. Knightley, ‘she will indulge her even more than she did you, and believe that she does not indulge her at all. It will be the only difference.’
“也就是说，”奈特利先生回答道，“她会比对你更加溺爱她，并且相信她根本不会溺爱她。”这将是唯一的区别。

‘Poor child!’ cried Emma; ‘at that rate, what will become of her?’
“可怜的孩子！”艾玛喊道。 “照这样下去，她会变成什么样子呢？”

‘Nothing very bad.—The fate of thousands. She will be disagreeable in infancy, and correct herself as she grows older. I am losing all my bitterness against spoilt children, my dearest Emma. I, who am owing all my happiness to you, would not it be horrible ingratitude in me to be severe on them?’
“没什么太糟糕的。——成千上万的人的命运。”她在婴儿时期会不讨人喜欢，随着年龄的增长，她会纠正自己。我对被宠坏的孩子的所有怨恨正在消失，我最亲爱的艾玛。我把所有的幸福都归功于你，对他们如此严厉，岂不是忘恩负义吗？

Emma laughed, and replied: ‘But I had the assistance of all your endeavours to counteract the indulgence of other people. I doubt whether my own sense would have corrected me without it.’
艾玛笑了，回答道：“但我得到了你为抵制其他人的放纵所做的一切努力的帮助。”我怀疑如果没有它，我自己的感觉是否会纠正我。

‘Do you?—I have no doubt. Nature gave you understanding:— Miss Taylor gave you principles. You must have done well. My interference was quite as likely to do harm as good. It was very natural for you to say, what right has he to lecture me?— and I am afraid very natural for you to feel that it was done in a disagreeable manner. I do not believe I did you any good. The good was all to myself, by making you an object of the tenderest affection to me. I could not think about you so much without doating on you, faults and all; and by dint of fancying so many errors, have been in love with you ever since you were thirteen at least.’
“你是吗？——我毫不怀疑。大自然给了你理解：——泰勒小姐给了你原则。你一定做得很好。我的干涉既可能带来伤害，也可能带来好处。你很自然地会说，他有什么权利教训我？——而且恐怕你也很自然地觉得这样做的方式令人不快。我不相信我对你有任何好处。让你成为我最温柔的感情对象，这对我来说都是好事。我不可能如此想你而不溺爱你，包括你的缺点和一切；由于幻想了这么多错误，至少从你十三岁起我就爱上了你。

‘I am sure you were of use to me,’ cried Emma. ‘I was very often influenced rightly by you—oftener than I would own at the time. I am very sure you did me good. And if poor little Anna Weston is to be spoiled, it will be the greatest humanity in you to do as much for her as you have done for me, except falling in love with her when she is thirteen.’
“我确信你对我有用，”艾玛喊道。 “我经常受到你的正确影响——比我当时所受的影响还要多。我非常确定你对我有好处。如果可怜的小安娜·韦斯顿被宠坏了，你为她做的事情就像你为我所做的一样，除了在她十三岁时爱上她之外，这将是你最伟大的人性。

‘How often, when you were a girl, have you said to me, with one of your saucy looks—‘Mr. Knightley, I am going to do so-and-so; papa says I may, or I have Miss Taylor’s leave’—something which, you knew, I did not approve. In such cases my interference was giving you two bad feelings instead of one.’
“当你还是个女孩的时候，你有多少次用你那俏皮的表情对我说——‘先生。奈特利，我要做某事；爸爸说我可以，或者我有泰勒小姐的许可”——你知道，我不同意这样做。在这种情况下，我的干涉会给你带来两种不好的感觉，而不是一种。

‘What an amiable creature I was!—No wonder you should hold my speeches in such affectionate remembrance.’
“我是一个多么和蔼可亲的人啊！——难怪你们会如此深情地纪念我的演讲。”

‘‘Mr. Knightley.’—You always called me, ‘Mr. Knightley;’ and, from habit, it has not so very formal a sound.—And yet it is formal. I want you to call me something else, but I do not know what.’
''先生。奈特利。”——你总是叫我“奈特利先生”。奈特利；”而且，出于习惯，它的发音不那么正式。——但它是正式的。我希望你能叫我别的名字，但我不知道叫什么。

‘I remember once calling you ‘George,’ in one of my amiable fits, about ten years ago. I did it because I thought it would offend you; but, as you made no objection, I never did it again.’
“我记得大约十年前，我曾以一种和蔼可亲的方式称呼你‘乔治’。我这样做是因为我认为这会冒犯你；但是，既然你没有反对，我就再也没有这样做过。”

‘And cannot you call me ‘George’ now?’
“你现在不能叫我‘乔治’吗？”

‘Impossible!—I never can call you any thing but ‘Mr. Knightley.’ I will not promise even to equal the elegant terseness of Mrs. Elton, by calling you Mr. K.—But I will promise,’ she added presently, laughing and blushing—‘I will promise to call you once by your Christian name. I do not say when, but perhaps you may guess where;—in the building in which N. takes M. for better, for worse.’
“不可能！——除了‘先生’之外，我永远不能称呼你任何其他的名字。” “奈特利。”我什至不会保证像埃尔顿夫人一样优雅简洁地称呼您为“K 先生”——但我会保证，”她随即又笑着补充道，脸红了——“我保证会用您的名字称呼您一次。教名。我没有说何时，但也许你可以猜到在哪里；——在 N. 带着 M. 的大楼里，无论是好是坏。

Emma grieved that she could not be more openly just to one important service which his better sense would have rendered her, to the advice which would have saved her from the worst of all her womanly follies—her wilful intimacy with Harriet Smith; but it was too tender a subject.—She could not enter on it.— Harriet was very seldom mentioned between them. This, on his side, might merely proceed from her not being thought of; but Emma was rather inclined to attribute it to delicacy, and a suspicion, from some appearances, that their friendship were declining. She was aware herself, that, parting under any other circumstances, they certainly should have corresponded more, and that her intelligence would not have rested, as it now almost wholly did, on Isabella’s letters. He might observe that it was so. The pain of being obliged to practise concealment towards him, was very little inferior to the pain of having made Harriet unhappy.
爱玛感到悲伤的是，她不能更公开地只为他更好的理智为她提供的一项重要服务，为她提供建议，这些建议可以使她免于所有女性愚蠢行为中最严重的错误——她与哈丽特·史密斯的故意亲密；但这是一个太温柔的话题。——她无法进入这个话题。——他们之间很少提及哈丽特。对他来说，这可能只是因为没有想到她；但艾玛更倾向于将其归因于微妙，以及从某些表现来看他们的友谊正在下降的怀疑。她自己也意识到，在任何其他情况下分手，他们肯定应该有更多的通信，而且她的智慧不会像现在一样完全依赖于伊莎贝拉的信。他可能会观察到确实如此。被迫对他隐瞒的痛苦丝毫不亚于让哈丽特不高兴的痛苦。

Isabella sent quite as good an account of her visitor as could be expected; on her first arrival she had thought her out of spirits, which appeared perfectly natural, as there was a dentist to be consulted; but, since that business had been over, she did not appear to find Harriet different from what she had known her before.— Isabella, to be sure, was no very quick observer; yet if Harriet had not been equal to playing with the children, it would not have escaped her. Emma’s comforts and hopes were most agreeably carried on, by Harriet’s being to stay longer; her fortnight was likely to be a month at least. Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley were to come down in August, and she was invited to remain till they could bring her back.
伊莎贝拉对她的来访者的情况进行了充分的描述，正如人们所期望的那样。当她第一次到达时，她以为她精神不振，这似乎很自然，因为有牙医需要咨询。但是，既然那件事已经结束了，她似乎并没有发现哈丽特与她以前所认识的她有什么不同。——伊莎贝拉，可以肯定的是，她的观察力不是很快；她的观察力不是很快。然而，如果哈丽特不善于和孩子们一起玩，她也不会忘记这一点。艾玛的安慰和希望得到了最愉快的延续，因为哈丽特要待得更久。她的两周可能至少是一个月。约翰·奈特利先生和夫人将于八月前来，她被邀请留下来，直到他们把她带回来。

‘John does not even mention your friend,’ said Mr. Knightley. ‘Here is his answer, if you like to see it.’
“约翰甚至没有提到你的朋友，”奈特利先生说。 “如果你想看的话，这是他的答案。”

It was the answer to the communication of his intended marriage. Emma accepted it with a very eager hand, with an impatience all alive to know what he would say about it, and not at all checked by hearing that her friend was unmentioned.
这是对他打算结婚的沟通的答复。艾玛急切地接过它，她迫不及待地想知道他会对此说什么，而听到她的朋友没有被提及时，她一点也没有阻止。

‘John enters like a brother into my happiness,’ continued Mr. Knightley, ‘but he is no complimenter; and though I well know him to have, likewise, a most brotherly affection for you, he is so far from making flourishes, that any other young woman might think him rather cool in her praise. But I am not afraid of your seeing what he writes.’
“约翰像兄弟一样进入了我的幸福之中，”奈特利先生继续说道，“但他并不是一个恭维者；虽然我很清楚他对你同样怀有最兄弟般的感情，但他远没有大肆宣扬，以至于任何其他年轻女子可能会认为他的赞美相当冷静。但我不怕你看到他写的东西。”

‘He writes like a sensible man,’ replied Emma, when she had read the letter. ‘I honour his sincerity. It is very plain that he considers the good fortune of the engagement as all on my side, but that he is not without hope of my growing, in time, as worthy of your affection, as you think me already. Had he said any thing to bear a different construction, I should not have believed him.’
“他写得像个明智的人，”艾玛读完这封信后回答道。 “我尊重他的诚意。很明显，他认为订婚的好运都在我这边，但他也并非没有希望，随着时间的推移，我会成长为值得你喜爱的人，就像你对我的看法一样。如果他说的话有不同的解释，我就不会相信他。

‘My Emma, he means no such thing. He only means—‘
“我的艾玛，他不是这个意思。他的意思只是——‘

‘He and I should differ very little in our estimation of the two,’ interrupted she, with a sort of serious smile—‘much less, perhaps, than he is aware of, if we could enter without ceremony or reserve on the subject.’
“他和我对两人的评价应该相差不大，”她带着一种严肃的微笑打断道——“如果我们能在这个问题上不加任何仪式或保留地进入的话，也许比他意识到的要少得多。” '

‘Emma, my dear Emma—‘
“艾玛，我亲爱的艾玛——”

‘Oh!’ she cried with more thorough gaiety, ‘if you fancy your brother does not do me justice, only wait till my dear father is in the secret, and hear his opinion. Depend upon it, he will be much farther from doing you justice. He will think all the happiness, all the advantage, on your side of the question; all the merit on mine. I wish I may not sink into ‘poor Emma’ with him at once.— His tender compassion towards oppressed worth can go no farther.’
“哦！”她更加高兴地喊道，“如果你认为你的兄弟不公正地对待我，那就等我亲爱的父亲知道这个秘密后，听听他的意见吧。”相信吧，他离公正对待你还很远。他会认为所有的幸福、所有的优势都站在你这一边；所有的功德都在我身上。我希望我不会立刻和他一起陷入“可怜的艾玛”之中。——他对受压迫的价值的温柔同情不能再进一步了。

‘Ah!’ he cried, ‘I wish your father might be half as easily convinced as John will be, of our having every right that equal worth can give, to be happy together. I am amused by one part of John’s letter— did you notice it?—where he says, that my information did not take him wholly by surprize, that he was rather in expectation of hearing something of the kind.’
“啊！”他喊道，“我希望你的父亲能像约翰一样容易相信，我们拥有同等价值所赋予的一切权利，可以幸福地在一起。我对约翰信中的一部分感到好笑——你注意到了吗？——他在信中说，我的信息并没有让他完全感到惊讶，他相当期待听到类似的事情。

‘If I understand your brother, he only means so far as your having some thoughts of marrying. He had no idea of me. He seems perfectly unprepared for that.’
‘如果我理解你哥哥的话，他只是指你有结婚的想法。他对我一无所知。他似乎对此完全没有准备。

‘Yes, yes—but I am amused that he should have seen so far into my feelings. What has he been judging by?—I am not conscious of any difference in my spirits or conversation that could prepare him at this time for my marrying any more than at another.— But it was so, I suppose. I dare say there was a difference when I was staying with them the other day. I believe I did not play with the children quite so much as usual. I remember one evening the poor boys saying, ‘Uncle seems always tired now.’’
“是的，是的——但我很高兴他竟然能如此深入地了解我的感受。他是根据什么来判断的？——我不知道我的精神或谈话有什么不同，可以让他此时为我的结婚做好准备。——但我想，情况确实如此。我敢说那天我和他们住在一起时有不同。我想我没有像平时那样经常和孩子们一起玩。我记得有一天晚上，可怜的男孩们说：“叔叔现在看起来总是很累。”

The time was coming when the news must spread farther, and other persons’ reception of it tried. As soon as Mrs. Weston was sufficiently recovered to admit Mr. Woodhouse’s visits, Emma having it in view that her gentle reasonings should be employed in the cause, resolved first to announce it at home, and then at Randalls.— But how to break it to her father at last!—She had bound herself to do it, in such an hour of Mr. Knightley’s absence, or when it came to the point her heart would have failed her, and she must have put it off; but Mr. Knightley was to come at such a time, and follow up the beginning she was to make.—She was forced to speak, and to speak cheerfully too. She must not make it a more decided subject of misery to him, by a melancholy tone herself. She must not appear to think it a misfortune.—With all the spirits she could command, she prepared him first for something strange, and then, in a few words, said, that if his consent and approbation could be obtained—which, she trusted, would be attended with no difficulty, since it was a plan to promote the happiness of all— she and Mr. Knightley meant to marry; by which means Hartfield would receive the constant addition of that person’s company whom she knew he loved, next to his daughters and Mrs. Weston, best in the world.
消息必须传播得更远，而其他人对它的接受程度也已经到了尝试的时候了。当韦斯顿夫人完全康复并接受伍德豪斯先生来访时，艾玛认为她的温和推理应该用于这项事业，决定先在家里宣布，然后在兰德尔斯宣布。终于把它交给了她的父亲！——在奈特利先生不在的这么一个小时里，她已经下定决心一定要这么做，否则到了她心灰意冷的地步，她一定是推迟了；但奈特利先生不在家，她一定会这么做。但奈特利先生正好在这个时候来，继续她要做的事情。——她被迫说话，而且说话也很高兴。她自己不能用忧郁的语气让这件事成为他更加痛苦的话题。她决不能显得认为这是一件不幸的事。——她尽了最大的努力，首先让他做好了应对奇怪事情的准备，然后，用几句话说，如果能得到他的同意和认可——她相信，会毫无困难地参加，因为这是一个促进所有人幸福的计划——她和奈特利先生打算结婚；这样一来，哈特菲尔德就能不断地得到那个人的陪伴，她知道他深爱着这个人，仅次于他的女儿们和韦斯顿夫人，这是世界上最好的陪伴。

Poor man!—it was at first a considerable shock to him, and he tried earnestly to dissuade her from it. She was reminded, more than once, of having always said she would never marry, and assured that it would be a great deal better for her to remain single; and told of poor Isabella, and poor Miss Taylor.—But it would not do. Emma hung about him affectionately, and smiled, and said it must be so; and that he must not class her with Isabella and Mrs. Weston, whose marriages taking them from Hartfield, had, indeed, made a melancholy change: but she was not going from Hartfield; she should be always there; she was introducing no change in their numbers or their comforts but for the better; and she was very sure that he would be a great deal the happier for having Mr. Knightley always at hand, when he were once got used to the idea.—Did he not love Mr. Knightley very much?— He would not deny that he did, she was sure.—Whom did he ever want to consult on business but Mr. Knightley?—Who was so useful to him, who so ready to write his letters, who so glad to assist him?— Who so cheerful, so attentive, so attached to him?—Would not he like to have him always on the spot?—Yes. That was all very true. Mr. Knightley could not be there too often; he should be glad to see him every day;—but they did see him every day as it was.—Why could not they go on as they had done?
可怜的人！——一开始这对他来说是相当大的震惊，他极力劝阻她。有人不止一次地提醒她，她一直说自己永远不会结婚，并保证她保持单身会好得多；并讲述了可怜的伊莎贝拉和可怜的泰勒小姐。——但这不行。艾玛深情地搂着他，微笑着说一定是这样。他不能把她与伊莎贝拉和韦斯顿夫人相提并论，他们的婚姻使他们离开了哈特菲尔德，这确实带来了令人忧郁的变化：但她不会离开哈特菲尔德；她不会离开哈特菲尔德。她应该永远在那儿；她并没有改变他们的人数或他们的舒适度，而是为了更好。她非常确信，一旦他习惯了这个想法，他就会因为有奈特利先生总是在身边而感到更加高兴。——他不是很爱奈特利先生吗？——他不会否认这一点。他做到了，她确信。——除了奈特利先生之外，他还想向谁咨询生意上的事呢？——谁对他如此有用，谁如此乐意写信，谁如此乐意帮助他？——谁如此高兴，这么细心，这么依恋他？——难道他不希望他总是在场吗？——是的。这都是真的。奈特利先生不可能经常去那儿；他不会去那里的。他应该很高兴每天见到他；——但他们确实每天都看到他的本来面目。——为什么他们不能像以前那样继续下去呢？

Mr. Woodhouse could not be soon reconciled; but the worst was overcome, the idea was given; time and continual repetition must do the rest.— To Emma’s entreaties and assurances succeeded Mr. Knightley’s, whose fond praise of her gave the subject even a kind of welcome; and he was soon used to be talked to by each, on every fair occasion.— They had all the assistance which Isabella could give, by letters of the strongest approbation; and Mrs. Weston was ready, on the first meeting, to consider the subject in the most serviceable light—first, as a settled, and, secondly, as a good one— well aware of the nearly equal importance of the two recommendations to Mr. Woodhouse’s mind.—It was agreed upon, as what was to be; and every body by whom he was used to be guided assuring him that it would be for his happiness; and having some feelings himself which almost admitted it, he began to think that some time or other— in another year or two, perhaps—it might not be so very bad if the marriage did take place.
伍德豪斯先生很快就妥协了。但最坏的情况已经被克服了，这个想法被提出了；剩下的就必须是时间和不断的重复了。——奈特利先生接替了艾玛的恳求和保证，奈特利先生对她的热情赞扬甚至给这个话题带来了某种欢迎。很快，每个人都习惯在每一个适当的场合与他交谈。——他们得到了伊莎贝拉所能提供的一切帮助，通过信件表示最强烈的认可；韦斯顿夫人在第一次会议上就准备好从最有用的角度来考虑这个主题——首先，作为一个解决方案，其次，作为一个好的主题——她清楚地意识到向先生提出的两项建议几乎同等重要。伍德豪斯的想法——大家一致同意，正如所发生的那样；每一个曾经指导过他的人都向他保证，这将是为了他的幸福。他自己也有一些感觉，几乎承认了这一点，他开始想，也许有一天，再过一两年，如果这桩婚事真的举行了，也许也不会那么糟糕。

Mrs. Weston was acting no part, feigning no feelings in all that she said to him in favour of the event.—She had been extremely surprized, never more so, than when Emma first opened the affair to her; but she saw in it only increase of happiness to all, and had no scruple in urging him to the utmost.—She had such a regard for Mr. Knightley, as to think he deserved even her dearest Emma; and it was in every respect so proper, suitable, and unexceptionable a connexion, and in one respect, one point of the highest importance, so peculiarly eligible, so singularly fortunate, that now it seemed as if Emma could not safely have attached herself to any other creature, and that she had herself been the stupidest of beings in not having thought of it, and wished it long ago.—How very few of those men in a rank of life to address Emma would have renounced their own home for Hartfield! And who but Mr. Knightley could know and bear with Mr. Woodhouse, so as to make such an arrangement desirable!— The difficulty of disposing of poor Mr. Woodhouse had been always felt in her husband’s plans and her own, for a marriage between Frank and Emma. How to settle the claims of Enscombe and Hartfield had been a continual impediment—less acknowledged by Mr. Weston than by herself—but even he had never been able to finish the subject better than by saying—‘Those matters will take care of themselves; the young people will find a way.’ But here there was nothing to be shifted off in a wild speculation on the future. It was all right, all open, all equal. No sacrifice on any side worth the name. It was a union of the highest promise of felicity in itself, and without one real, rational difficulty to oppose or delay it.
韦斯顿夫人在她对他所说的所有支持这件事的事情中没有表现出任何角色，假装没有任何感情。——当艾玛第一次向她公开这件事时，她感到非常惊讶，从未如此惊讶；她感到非常惊讶。但她认为这只会增加所有人的幸福，并毫无顾忌地敦促他竭尽全力。她非常尊重奈特利先生，认为他甚至配得上她最亲爱的爱玛。从各方面来看，这种联系都是那么恰当、合适、无可例外，而且在某一方面，有一点是最重要的，那么特别合适，那么特别幸运，现在看来，爱玛似乎无法安全地将自己依附于她。任何其他生物，她自己是最愚蠢的人，因为没有想到这一点，而且很久以前就希望如此。——那些在生活中与艾玛说话的男人中，很少有人会为了哈特菲尔德而放弃自己的家！除了奈特利先生之外，还有谁能够了解并容忍伍德豪斯先生，从而使这样的安排变得可取！——在她丈夫的计划和她自己的计划中，一直感受到处理可怜的伍德豪斯先生的困难，因为两人之间的婚姻弗兰克和艾玛。如何解决恩斯库姆和哈特菲尔德的索赔一直是一个持续的障碍——韦斯顿先生比她自己更不承认这一点——但即使是他也从来没有比这句话更好地完成这个话题——“那些事情会自行解决；”年轻人会找到出路的。”但是，在对未来的疯狂猜测中，没有什么可以改变的。一切都好，一切开放，一切平等。任何一方的牺牲都没有名副其实。这种结合本身就是一种幸福的最高承诺，没有任何真正的、合理的困难来反对或拖延它。

Mrs. Weston, with her baby on her knee, indulging in such reflections as these, was one of the happiest women in the world. If any thing could increase her delight, it was perceiving that the baby would soon have outgrown its first set of caps.
韦斯顿夫人膝上抱着孩子，沉浸在这样的沉思中，她是世界上最幸福的女人之一。如果有什么能让她高兴的话，那就是她意识到婴儿很快就会长大，不再需要戴第一顶帽子了。

The news was universally a surprize wherever it spread; and Mr. Weston had his five minutes share of it; but five minutes were enough to familiarise the idea to his quickness of mind.— He saw the advantages of the match, and rejoiced in them with all the constancy of his wife; but the wonder of it was very soon nothing; and by the end of an hour he was not far from believing that he had always foreseen it.
这个消息无论传到哪里都会引起普遍的惊讶。韦斯顿先生也听了五分钟。但五分钟就足以让他的思维敏捷地熟悉这个想法。——他看到了这场比赛的优势，并像他妻子那样坚定不移地为之感到高兴。但很快这一切就不再令人惊奇了。一个小时后，他几乎相信自己已经预见到了这一点。

‘It is to be a secret, I conclude,’ said he. ‘These matters are always a secret, till it is found out that every body knows them. Only let me be told when I may speak out.—I wonder whether Jane has any suspicion.’
“我的结论是，这是一个秘密，”他说。 “这些事情始终是秘密，直到发现每个人都知道它们为止。只有当我可以说出来时才告诉我。——我想知道简是否有任何怀疑。

He went to Highbury the next morning, and satisfied himself on that point. He told her the news. Was not she like a daughter, his eldest daughter?—he must tell her; and Miss Bates being present, it passed, of course, to Mrs. Cole, Mrs. Perry, and Mrs. Elton, immediately afterwards. It was no more than the principals were prepared for; they had calculated from the time of its being known at Randalls, how soon it would be over Highbury; and were thinking of themselves, as the evening wonder in many a family circle, with great sagacity.
第二天早上他去了海布里，并对此感到满意。他把这个消息告诉了她。她不是像个女儿，他的大女儿吗？——他必须告诉她；她是他的大女儿。贝茨小姐在场，当然，它随后立即传给了科尔夫人、佩里夫人和埃尔顿夫人。这不过是校长们的心理准备而已。他们从兰德尔斯知道它的时候起就计算过，它多久会在海布里上空；他们认为自己是许多家庭圈子里的晚间奇迹，具有极大的洞察力。

In general, it was a very well approved match. Some might think him, and others might think her, the most in luck. One set might recommend their all removing to Donwell, and leaving Hartfield for the John Knightleys; and another might predict disagreements among their servants; but yet, upon the whole, there was no serious objection raised, except in one habitation, the Vicarage.—There, the surprize was not softened by any satisfaction. Mr. Elton cared little about it, compared with his wife; he only hoped ‘the young lady’s pride would now be contented;’ and supposed ‘she had always meant to catch Knightley if she could;’ and, on the point of living at Hartfield, could daringly exclaim, ‘Rather he than I!’— But Mrs. Elton was very much discomposed indeed.—‘Poor Knightley! poor fellow!—sad business for him.—She was extremely concerned; for, though very eccentric, he had a thousand good qualities.— How could he be so taken in?—Did not think him at all in love— not in the least.—Poor Knightley!—There would be an end of all pleasant intercourse with him.—How happy he had been to come and dine with them whenever they asked him! But that would be all over now.— Poor fellow!—No more exploring parties to Donwell made for her. Oh! no; there would be a Mrs. Knightley to throw cold water on every thing.—Extremely disagreeable! But she was not at all sorry that she had abused the housekeeper the other day.—Shocking plan, living together. It would never do. She knew a family near Maple Grove who had tried it, and been obliged to separate before the end of the first quarter.
总的来说，这是一场非常受认可的比赛。有些人可能认为他是最幸运的，另一些人可能认为她最幸运。一组可能会建议他们全部搬到唐威尔，并离开哈特菲尔德前往约翰·奈特利家族；另一个人可能会预测他们的仆人之间会出现分歧；但总体而言，除了牧师住宅之外，并没有提出严重的反对意见。——在那里，惊讶并没有因为任何满意而减弱。与他的妻子相比，埃尔顿先生对此并不关心。他只希望“这位年轻女士的自尊心现在得到了满足”；并假设“如果可以的话，她一直想抓住奈特利”；而且，在即将住在哈特菲尔德时，他可以大胆地喊道：“与其是我，不如是他！” ——但是埃尔顿夫人确实非常不安。——“可怜的奈特利！”可怜的家伙！——这对他来说是一件悲哀的事。——她非常担心；因为，虽然他很古怪，但他有一千种优良品质。——他怎么会这么被骗呢？——根本不认为他恋爱了——一点也不。——可怜的奈特利！——一切愉快的事情都会结束。与他交往。——每当他们邀请他时，他就来和他们一起吃饭是多么高兴啊！但现在一切都结束了。——可怜的家伙！——不再为她举办去唐威尔的探索派对。哦！不;会有一个奈特利夫人向所有事情泼冷水。——极其令人不快！但她对前几天辱骂管家的行为一点也不后悔。——令人震惊的计划，同居。它永远不会做。她认识枫树林附近的一个家庭，他们曾尝试过这种做法，但被迫在第一节结束前分开。

Chapter XVIII
第十八章

Time passed on. A few more to-morrows, and the party from London would be arriving. It was an alarming change; and Emma was thinking of it one morning, as what must bring a great deal to agitate and grieve her, when Mr. Knightley came in, and distressing thoughts were put by. After the first chat of pleasure he was silent; and then, in a graver tone, began with,
时间过去了。再过几天，来自伦敦的聚会就会到来。这是一个令人震惊的变化。一天早上，爱玛正想着这件事，一定会让她感到非常不安和悲伤，这时奈特利先生进来了，痛苦的想法就被抛在脑后了。第一次愉快的交谈后，他沉默了。然后，用更严肃的语气开始说：

‘I have something to tell you, Emma; some news.’
“我有件事要告诉你，艾玛；一些新闻。'

‘Good or bad?’ said she, quickly, looking up in his face.
“好还是坏？”她抬起头看着他的脸，很快问道。

‘I do not know which it ought to be called.’
“我不知道应该叫它哪个。”

‘Oh! good I am sure.—I see it in your countenance. You are trying not to smile.’
'哦！我确信很好。——我从你的脸上看到了这一点。你试图不笑。

‘I am afraid,’ said he, composing his features, ‘I am very much afraid, my dear Emma, that you will not smile when you hear it.’
“我担心，”他镇定下来说道，“我亲爱的艾玛，我非常担心你听到这个消息时不会微笑。”

‘Indeed! but why so?—I can hardly imagine that any thing which pleases or amuses you, should not please and amuse me too.’
'的确！但为什么会这样呢？——我很难想象，任何让你高兴或开心的事情，都不应该让我高兴和开心。

‘There is one subject,’ he replied, ‘I hope but one, on which we do not think alike.’ He paused a moment, again smiling, with his eyes fixed on her face. ‘Does nothing occur to you?— Do not you recollect?—Harriet Smith.’
“有一个主题，”他回答道，“我希望只有一个，我们的想法不同。”他停顿了一下，再次微笑，眼睛盯着她的脸。 “你没有想到什么吗？——你不记得了吗？——哈丽特·史密斯。”

Her cheeks flushed at the name, and she felt afraid of something, though she knew not what.
听到这个名字，她的脸颊涨红了，她感到有些害怕，尽管她不知道是什么。

‘Have you heard from her yourself this morning?’ cried he. ‘You have, I believe, and know the whole.’
“今天早上你亲自收到她的消息了吗？”他喊道。 “我相信，你已经了解了一切。”

‘No, I have not; I know nothing; pray tell me.’
'不我没有;我什么都不知道;请告诉我。

‘You are prepared for the worst, I see—and very bad it is. Harriet Smith marries Robert Martin.’
“我明白了，你已经做好了最坏的打算——而且情况非常糟糕。”哈丽特·史密斯与罗伯特·马丁结婚。

Emma gave a start, which did not seem like being prepared— and her eyes, in eager gaze, said, ‘No, this is impossible!’ but her lips were closed.
艾玛吃了一惊，似乎没有做好准备——她的眼睛里充满热切的目光，说：“不，这是不可能的！”但她的嘴唇紧闭着。

‘It is so, indeed,’ continued Mr. Knightley; ‘I have it from Robert Martin himself. He left me not half an hour ago.’
“确实如此，”奈特利先生继续说道。 “这是我从罗伯特·马丁本人那里得到的。他不到半小时前就离开了我。

She was still looking at him with the most speaking amazement.
她仍然用最惊讶的眼神看着他。

‘You like it, my Emma, as little as I feared.—I wish our opinions were the same. But in time they will. Time, you may be sure, will make one or the other of us think differently; and, in the meanwhile, we need not talk much on the subject.’
“你喜欢它，我的艾玛，就像我担心的那样。——我希望我们的意见是一样的。”但最终他们会的。你可以肯定，时间会让我们中的一个人或另一个人以不同的方式思考。与此同时，我们不需要在这个问题上谈论太多。

‘You mistake me, you quite mistake me,’ she replied, exerting herself. ‘It is not that such a circumstance would now make me unhappy, but I cannot believe it. It seems an impossibility!—You cannot mean to say, that Harriet Smith has accepted Robert Martin. You cannot mean that he has even proposed to her again—yet. You only mean, that he intends it.’
“你误会我了，你完全误会我了，”她努力回答道。 “现在这样的情况并不是让我不高兴，但我不敢相信。这似乎是不可能的！——你不能说哈丽特·史密斯已经接受了罗伯特·马丁。你还不能说他已经再次向她求婚了。你只是说，他有意这么做。

‘I mean that he has done it,’ answered Mr. Knightley, with smiling but determined decision, ‘and been accepted.’
“我的意思是，他已经做到了，”奈特利先生微笑着回答，但做出了坚定的决定，“并且被接受了。”

‘Good God!’ she cried.—‘Well!’—Then having recourse to her workbasket, in excuse for leaning down her face, and concealing all the exquisite feelings of delight and entertainment which she knew she must be expressing, she added, ‘Well, now tell me every thing; make this intelligible to me. How, where, when?—Let me know it all. I never was more surprized—but it does not make me unhappy, I assure you.—How—how has it been possible?’
“天哪！”她喊道。“好吧！”然后，她求助于工作篮，借口低下了脸，隐藏了她知道自己必须要表达的所有美妙的喜悦和娱乐的感觉，她补充道：好吧，现在告诉我一切；让我明白这一点。如何、何地、何时？——让我知道这一切。我从未如此惊讶过——但这并不会让我不高兴，我向你保证。——怎么——这怎么可能？

‘It is a very simple story. He went to town on business three days ago, and I got him to take charge of some papers which I was wanting to send to John.—He delivered these papers to John, at his chambers, and was asked by him to join their party the same evening to Astley’s. They were going to take the two eldest boys to Astley’s. The party was to be our brother and sister, Henry, John—and Miss Smith. My friend Robert could not resist. They called for him in their way; were all extremely amused; and my brother asked him to dine with them the next day—which he did—and in the course of that visit (as I understand) he found an opportunity of speaking to Harriet; and certainly did not speak in vain.—She made him, by her acceptance, as happy even as he is deserving. He came down by yesterday’s coach, and was with me this morning immediately after breakfast, to report his proceedings, first on my affairs, and then on his own. This is all that I can relate of the how, where, and when. Your friend Harriet will make a much longer history when you see her.— She will give you all the minute particulars, which only woman’s language can make interesting.—In our communications we deal only in the great.—However, I must say, that Robert Martin’s heart seemed for him, and to me, very overflowing; and that he did mention, without its being much to the purpose, that on quitting their box at Astley’s, my brother took charge of Mrs. John Knightley and little John, and he followed with Miss Smith and Henry; and that at one time they were in such a crowd, as to make Miss Smith rather uneasy.’
‘这是一个非常简单的故事。三天前他进城出差，我让他负责一些我想寄给约翰的文件。——他在约翰的房间里把这些文件交给约翰，并被他邀请加入他们的队伍。同一天晚上去阿斯特利。他们打算带两个最大的男孩去阿斯特利家。聚会的成员是我们的兄弟姐妹，亨利、约翰和史密斯小姐。我的朋友罗伯特无法抗拒。他们用自己的方式呼唤他；大家都被逗乐了；我哥哥邀请他第二天和他们一起吃饭——他确实这么做了——在那次拜访的过程中（据我所知），他找到了一个与哈丽特交谈的机会；当然，这句话也没有白说。——她的接受让他得到了应有的幸福。他从昨天的教练那里下来，今天早上早餐后立即和我在一起，报告他的进展情况，首先是关于我的事务，然后是他自己的事情。这就是我所能讲述的关于如何、何地、何时的全部内容。当你见到你的朋友哈丽特时，她会留下更长的历史。——她会给你所有的细节，只有女人的语言才能使这些细节变得有趣。——在我们的交流中，我们只处理重大的事情。——但是，我必须说，罗伯特·马丁对他和我来说似乎都充满了热情。他确实提到，虽然没有多大意义，但离开阿斯特利的包厢后，我哥哥负责照顾约翰·奈特利夫人和小约翰，然后他带着史密斯小姐和亨利。有一次，他们挤在如此拥挤的人群中，让史密斯小姐感到相当不安。

He stopped.—Emma dared not attempt any immediate reply. To speak, she was sure would be to betray a most unreasonable degree of happiness. She must wait a moment, or he would think her mad. Her silence disturbed him; and after observing her a little while, he added,
他停了下来。——艾玛不敢尝试立即回答。说出来，她肯定会背叛一种最不合理的幸福。她必须等一下，否则他会认为她疯了。她的沉默让他不安。观察了她一会儿之后，他补充道：

‘Emma, my love, you said that this circumstance would not now make you unhappy; but I am afraid it gives you more pain than you expected. His situation is an evil—but you must consider it as what satisfies your friend; and I will answer for your thinking better and better of him as you know him more. His good sense and good principles would delight you.—As far as the man is concerned, you could not wish your friend in better hands. His rank in society I would alter if I could, which is saying a great deal I assure you, Emma.—You laugh at me about William Larkins; but I could quite as ill spare Robert Martin.’
“艾玛，我的爱人，你说过现在这种情况不会让你不高兴；但恐怕它给你带来的痛苦比你想象的还要多。他的处境是一种不幸——但你必须认为这是让你的朋友满意的；随着你对他的了解越来越多，我会回答你对他的看法越来越好。他的良好判断力和良好原则会让你高兴的。——就这个人而言，你不能希望你的朋友得到更好的照顾。如果可以的话，我会改变他在社会上的地位，这很重要，我向你保证，艾玛。——你嘲笑我关于威廉·拉金斯；但我同样不能放过罗伯特·马丁。”

He wanted her to look up and smile; and having now brought herself not to smile too broadly—she did—cheerfully answering,
他希望她抬起头来微笑；现在她控制住自己不要笑得太过——她做到了——高兴地回答道：

‘You need not be at any pains to reconcile me to the match. I think Harriet is doing extremely well. Her connexions may be worse than his. In respectability of character, there can be no doubt that they are. I have been silent from surprize merely, excessive surprize. You cannot imagine how suddenly it has come on me! how peculiarly unprepared I was!—for I had reason to believe her very lately more determined against him, much more, than she was before.’
“你不必煞费苦心地让我接受这场比赛。我认为哈里特做得非常好。她的关系可能比他更糟糕。就品格的尊严而言，毫无疑问他们是这样的。我只是因为惊讶而沉默了，过度的惊讶。你无法想象它突然降临在我身上！我是多么没有准备啊！——因为我有理由相信她最近比以前更加坚决地反对他，甚至更加坚决。

‘You ought to know your friend best,’ replied Mr. Knightley; ‘but I should say she was a good-tempered, soft-hearted girl, not likely to be very, very determined against any young man who told her he loved her.’
“你应该最了解你的朋友，”奈特利先生回答道。 “但我应该说，她是一个脾气好、心软的女孩，不太可能对任何告诉她爱她的年轻人非常非常坚决。”

Emma could not help laughing as she answered, ‘Upon my word, I believe you know her quite as well as I do.—But, Mr. Knightley, are you perfectly sure that she has absolutely and downright accepted him. I could suppose she might in time—but can she already?— Did not you misunderstand him?—You were both talking of other things; of business, shows of cattle, or new drills—and might not you, in the confusion of so many subjects, mistake him?—It was not Harriet’s hand that he was certain of—it was the dimensions of some famous ox.’
艾玛忍不住笑了，她回答道：“据我所知，我相信你和我一样了解她。——但是，奈特利先生，你完全确定她已经绝对地、彻底地接受了他吗？”我猜她可能会及时——但她已经可以了吗？——你没有误解他吗？生意、牲畜表演或新的训练——在这么多主题的混乱中，你不会误会他吗？——他确信的不是哈丽特的手——而是某只著名牛的尺寸。

The contrast between the countenance and air of Mr. Knightley and Robert Martin was, at this moment, so strong to Emma’s feelings, and so strong was the recollection of all that had so recently passed on Harriet’s side, so fresh the sound of those words, spoken with such emphasis, ‘No, I hope I know better than to think of Robert Martin,’ that she was really expecting the intelligence to prove, in some measure, premature. It could not be otherwise.
此时此刻，奈特利先生和罗伯特·马丁的表情和神态之间的反差对艾玛的感情是如此强烈，对哈丽特这边最近发生的一切的回忆是如此强烈，这些话的声音如此新鲜”，语气如此强调，“不，我希望我知道不要想到罗伯特·马丁，”她真的希望情报在某种程度上被证明为时过早。不可能有别的事。

‘Do you dare say this?’ cried Mr. Knightley. ‘Do you dare to suppose me so great a blockhead, as not to know what a man is talking of?— What do you deserve?’
“你敢这么说吗？”奈特利先生喊道。 “你敢认为我是个大傻瓜，连一个人在说什么都不知道吗？——你应得的是什么？”

‘Oh! I always deserve the best treatment, because I never put up with any other; and, therefore, you must give me a plain, direct answer. Are you quite sure that you understand the terms on which Mr. Martin and Harriet now are?’
'哦！我永远应该得到最好的待遇，因为我从不容忍任何其他人；因此，你必须给我一个简单、直接的答复。你确定你明白马丁先生和哈里特现在的条款吗？

‘I am quite sure,’ he replied, speaking very distinctly, ‘that he told me she had accepted him; and that there was no obscurity, nothing doubtful, in the words he used; and I think I can give you a proof that it must be so. He asked my opinion as to what he was now to do. He knew of no one but Mrs. Goddard to whom he could apply for information of her relations or friends. Could I mention any thing more fit to be done, than to go to Mrs. Goddard? I assured him that I could not. Then, he said, he would endeavour to see her in the course of this day.’
“我很确定，”他回答道，语气非常清晰，“他告诉我她已经接受了他；他的用词毫无含糊之处，毫无疑问。我想我可以给你一个证明，事实一定如此。他询问我对他现在要做什么的意见。除了戈达德夫人之外，他不认识任何人，他可以向她申请有关她亲戚或朋友的信息。我能提一下比去找戈达德夫人更合适的事情吗？我向他保证我不能。然后，他说，他会尽力在这一天见到她。

‘I am perfectly satisfied,’ replied Emma, with the brightest smiles, ‘and most sincerely wish them happy.’
“我非常满意，”艾玛微笑着回答，“并衷心祝愿他们幸福。”

‘You are materially changed since we talked on this subject before.’
“自从我们之前讨论过这个话题以来，你已经发生了很大的变化。”

‘I hope so—for at that time I was a fool.’
“我希望如此——因为那时我是个傻瓜。”

‘And I am changed also; for I am now very willing to grant you all Harriet’s good qualities. I have taken some pains for your sake, and for Robert Martin’s sake, (whom I have always had reason to believe as much in love with her as ever,) to get acquainted with her. I have often talked to her a good deal. You must have seen that I did. Sometimes, indeed, I have thought you were half suspecting me of pleading poor Martin’s cause, which was never the case; but, from all my observations, I am convinced of her being an artless, amiable girl, with very good notions, very seriously good principles, and placing her happiness in the affections and utility of domestic life.— Much of this, I have no doubt, she may thank you for.’
‘我也改变了；因为我现在非常愿意将哈丽特的所有优点都授予你。为了你，也为了罗伯特·马丁（我一直有理由相信他一如既往地爱着她），我费尽了心思去结识她。我经常和她谈很多事情。你一定已经看到我这么做了。有时候，确实，我以为你有一半怀疑我为可怜的马丁辩护，但事实并非如此。但是，从我的所有观察来看，我确信她是一个天真、和蔼可亲的女孩，有非常好的观念，非常认真的良好原则，并将她的幸福寄托在家庭生活的感情和实用性上。——其中大部分，我没有怀疑，她可能会感谢你。

‘Me!’ cried Emma, shaking her head.—‘Ah! poor Harriet!’
“我！”艾玛摇着头喊道。——“啊！可怜的哈丽特！”

She checked herself, however, and submitted quietly to a little more praise than she deserved.
然而，她克制住了自己，并默默地接受了比她应得的多一点的赞扬。

Their conversation was soon afterwards closed by the entrance of her father. She was not sorry. She wanted to be alone. Her mind was in a state of flutter and wonder, which made it impossible for her to be collected. She was in dancing, singing, exclaiming spirits; and till she had moved about, and talked to herself, and laughed and reflected, she could be fit for nothing rational.
不久之后，他们的谈话因她父亲的进来而结束。她并不后悔。她想一个人呆着。她的思绪飘忽不定，无法平静。她载歌载舞，精神抖擞；在她四处走动、自言自语、大笑、反思之前，她根本不适合任何理性的事情。

Her father’s business was to announce James’s being gone out to put the horses to, preparatory to their now daily drive to Randalls; and she had, therefore, an immediate excuse for disappearing.
她父亲的任务是宣布詹姆斯出去放马，为他们现在每天驱车前往兰德尔斯做准备。因此，她有一个立即消失的借口。

The joy, the gratitude, the exquisite delight of her sensations may be imagined. The sole grievance and alloy thus removed in the prospect of Harriet’s welfare, she was really in danger of becoming too happy for security.—What had she to wish for? Nothing, but to grow more worthy of him, whose intentions and judgment had been ever so superior to her own. Nothing, but that the lessons of her past folly might teach her humility and circumspection in future.
她的感受中的喜悦、感激和美妙的喜悦是可以想象的。哈丽特的幸福前景中唯一的不满和合金就这样被消除了，她确实处于变得太幸福而失去安全感的危险之中。——她有什么愿望呢？没什么，只是为了变得更配得上他，因为他的意图和判断力比她自己的要高明得多。没什么，只是她过去愚蠢的教训可能会让她在未来变得谦逊和谨慎。

Serious she was, very serious in her thankfulness, and in her resolutions; and yet there was no preventing a laugh, sometimes in the very midst of them. She must laugh at such a close! Such an end of the doleful disappointment of five weeks back! Such a heart—such a Harriet!
她很严肃，她的感激之情和她的决心都非常严肃。然而，他们还是忍不住笑了起来，有时就在他们中间。这么近她一定笑了！五周前的悲伤失望就这样结束了！这样的心——这样的哈丽特！

Now there would be pleasure in her returning—Every thing would be a pleasure. It would be a great pleasure to know Robert Martin.
现在她回来会很高兴——一切都会很高兴。很高兴认识罗伯特·马丁。

High in the rank of her most serious and heartfelt felicities, was the reflection that all necessity of concealment from Mr. Knightley would soon be over. The disguise, equivocation, mystery, so hateful to her to practise, might soon be over. She could now look forward to giving him that full and perfect confidence which her disposition was most ready to welcome as a duty.
在她最严肃和最衷心的幸福中，最重要的是想到所有对奈特利先生隐瞒的必要性很快就会结束。她讨厌的伪装、模棱两可、神秘感可能很快就会结束。她现在可以期待给予他充分和完美的信任，她的性情最愿意将这种信任视为一种义务。

In the gayest and happiest spirits she set forward with her father; not always listening, but always agreeing to what he said; and, whether in speech or silence, conniving at the comfortable persuasion of his being obliged to go to Randalls every day, or poor Mrs. Weston would be disappointed.
她带着最快乐、最幸福的心情和父亲一起出发了。不是总是听，但总是同意他所说的话；而且，无论是在言语中还是在沉默中，纵容他不得不每天去兰德尔家的舒适说服，否则可怜的韦斯顿夫人会感到失望。

They arrived.—Mrs. Weston was alone in the drawing-room:— but hardly had they been told of the baby, and Mr. Woodhouse received the thanks for coming, which he asked for, when a glimpse was caught through the blind, of two figures passing near the window.
他们到了。——夫人。韦斯顿独自一人在客厅里：——但他们几乎没有被告知婴儿的事，伍德豪斯先生收到了他的到来的感谢，他要求这样做，当透过百叶窗瞥见两个人影在附近经过时窗户。

‘It is Frank and Miss Fairfax,’ said Mrs. Weston. ‘I was just going to tell you of our agreeable surprize in seeing him arrive this morning. He stays till to-morrow, and Miss Fairfax has been persuaded to spend the day with us.—They are coming in, I hope.’
“是弗兰克和费尔法克斯小姐，”韦斯顿夫人说。 “我只是想告诉你今天早上看到他到来时我们感到多么愉快和惊讶。他留到明天，费尔法克斯小姐已被说服和我们一起度过这一天。——我希望他们会进来。

In half a minute they were in the room. Emma was extremely glad to see him—but there was a degree of confusion—a number of embarrassing recollections on each side. They met readily and smiling, but with a consciousness which at first allowed little to be said; and having all sat down again, there was for some time such a blank in the circle, that Emma began to doubt whether the wish now indulged, which she had long felt, of seeing Frank Churchill once more, and of seeing him with Jane, would yield its proportion of pleasure. When Mr. Weston joined the party, however, and when the baby was fetched, there was no longer a want of subject or animation— or of courage and opportunity for Frank Churchill to draw near her and say,
半分钟后，他们就到了房间里。艾玛非常高兴见到他——但也有一定程度的困惑——双方都回忆起一些尴尬的事情。他们很高兴地见面，面带微笑，但一开始他们并没有什么话可说。所有人都重新坐下后，有一段时间，圈子里一片空白，爱玛开始怀疑，她长久以来的愿望是否已经得到满足，再次见到弗兰克·丘吉尔，看到他和简在一起，会产生一定比例的快乐。然而，当韦斯顿先生加入聚会，当婴儿被抱出来时，不再需要主题或动画——或者弗兰克·丘吉尔靠近她说的勇气和机会：

‘I have to thank you, Miss Woodhouse, for a very kind forgiving message in one of Mrs. Weston’s letters. I hope time has not made you less willing to pardon. I hope you do not retract what you then said.’
“伍德豪斯小姐，我必须感谢你在韦斯顿夫人的一封信中传达了非常善意的宽容信息。我希望时间并没有让你不再那么愿意原谅。我希望你不要收回你当时所说的话。

‘No, indeed,’ cried Emma, most happy to begin, ‘not in the least. I am particularly glad to see and shake hands with you—and to give you joy in person.’
“不，确实如此，”艾玛一开始就很高兴，“一点也不。”我特别高兴见到你并与你握手，并亲自给你带来快乐。”

He thanked her with all his heart, and continued some time to speak with serious feeling of his gratitude and happiness.
他全心全意地感谢她，并持续了一段时间，认真地表达着他的感激和幸福。

‘Is not she looking well?’ said he, turning his eyes towards Jane. ‘Better than she ever used to do?—You see how my father and Mrs. Weston doat upon her.’
“她看起来不是很好吗？”他说，把目光转向简。 “比她以前做得更好？——你看我父亲和韦斯顿夫人是如何对待她的。”

But his spirits were soon rising again, and with laughing eyes, after mentioning the expected return of the Campbells, he named the name of Dixon.—Emma blushed, and forbade its being pronounced in her hearing.
但他的精神很快又恢复了，在提到坎贝尔一家的预期回归后，他带着笑意说出了迪克森的名字。——艾玛脸红了，禁止在她的耳边念出这个名字。

‘I can never think of it,’ she cried, ‘without extreme shame.’
“我永远无法想到这一点，”她喊道，“我感到无比羞愧。”

‘The shame,’ he answered, ‘is all mine, or ought to be. But is it possible that you had no suspicion?—I mean of late. Early, I know, you had none.’
“耻辱，”他回答说，“全是我的，或者说应该是我的。”但你有可能没有怀疑吗？——我是说最近。我知道，很早就你没有了。

‘I never had the smallest, I assure you.’
“我向你保证，我从来没有拥有过最小的。”

‘That appears quite wonderful. I was once very near—and I wish I had— it would have been better. But though I was always doing wrong things, they were very bad wrong things, and such as did me no service.— It would have been a much better transgression had I broken the bond of secrecy and told you every thing.’
‘这看起来相当美妙。我曾经非常接近——我希望我有——那就更好了。但是，虽然我总是做错事，但这些都是非常严重的错事，而且对我没有任何帮助。——如果我打破保密的束缚，把一切都告诉你，那就更好了。

‘It is not now worth a regret,’ said Emma.
“现在不值得后悔，”艾玛说。

‘I have some hope,’ resumed he, ‘of my uncle’s being persuaded to pay a visit at Randalls; he wants to be introduced to her. When the Campbells are returned, we shall meet them in London, and continue there, I trust, till we may carry her northward.—But now, I am at such a distance from her—is not it hard, Miss Woodhouse?— Till this morning, we have not once met since the day of reconciliation. Do not you pity me?’
“我有一些希望，”他继续说道，“我的叔叔被说服去兰德尔斯拜访；他想被介绍给她。当坎贝尔夫妇回来时，我们将在伦敦与他们会面，我相信，我们会继续在那里，直到我们可以把她带到北方。——但是现在，我离她太远了——这不是很难吗，伍德豪斯小姐？——直到今天早上，自和解之日以来我们还没有见过面。你不可怜我吗？

Emma spoke her pity so very kindly, that with a sudden accession of gay thought, he cried,
艾玛非常善意地表达了她的怜悯，他突然升起一种快乐的想法，哭道：

‘Ah! by the bye,’ then sinking his voice, and looking demure for the moment—‘I hope Mr. Knightley is well?’ He paused.—She coloured and laughed.—‘I know you saw my letter, and think you may remember my wish in your favour. Let me return your congratulations.— I assure you that I have heard the news with the warmest interest and satisfaction.—He is a man whom I cannot presume to praise.’
'啊！再见，”然后压低了声音，暂时显得端庄——“我希望奈特利先生一切都好？”他停顿了一下。——她脸红了，笑了。——“我知道你看到了我的信，并且想你可能还记得我的愿望对你有利。让我回报你的祝贺。——我向你保证，我以最热烈的兴趣和满意的心情听到了这个消息。——他是一个我不敢赞扬的人。

Emma was delighted, and only wanted him to go on in the same style; but his mind was the next moment in his own concerns and with his own Jane, and his next words were,
艾玛很高兴，只希望他继续保持同样的风格。但下一刻他的心思全在他自己的担忧和他自己的简身上，他的下一句话是：

‘Did you ever see such a skin?—such smoothness! such delicacy!— and yet without being actually fair.—One cannot call her fair. It is a most uncommon complexion, with her dark eye-lashes and hair— a most distinguishing complexion! So peculiarly the lady in it.— Just colour enough for beauty.’
“你见过这样的皮肤吗？——这么光滑！”如此精致！——但实际上并不公平。——人们不能说她公平。这是一种最不常见的肤色，黑色的睫毛和头发，是最有特色的肤色！里面的女士很特别。——只要颜色足够美丽就可以了。

‘I have always admired her complexion,’ replied Emma, archly; ‘but do not I remember the time when you found fault with her for being so pale?— When we first began to talk of her.—Have you quite forgotten?’
“我一直很欣赏她的肤色，”艾玛狡猾地回答道。 “但是我不记得你因为她脸色苍白而责备她的时候吗？——当我们第一次开始谈论她时。——你完全忘记了吗？”

‘Oh! no—what an impudent dog I was!—How could I dare—‘
'哦！不——我真是一只无礼的狗！——我怎么敢——”

But he laughed so heartily at the recollection, that Emma could not help saying,
但回忆起他的笑容，艾玛忍不住说道：

‘I do suspect that in the midst of your perplexities at that time, you had very great amusement in tricking us all.—I am sure you had.— I am sure it was a consolation to you.’
“我确实怀疑，在你当时的困惑之中，你对欺骗我们大家感到非常高兴。——我相信你有。——我相信这对你来说是一种安慰。”

‘Oh! no, no, no—how can you suspect me of such a thing? I was the most miserable wretch!’
'哦！不不不——你怎么能怀疑我有这种事呢？我是最可怜的人！

‘Not quite so miserable as to be insensible to mirth. I am sure it was a source of high entertainment to you, to feel that you were taking us all in.—Perhaps I am the readier to suspect, because, to tell you the truth, I think it might have been some amusement to myself in the same situation. I think there is a little likeness between us.’
“还没有悲惨到对欢笑麻木不仁的程度。我确信这对你来说是一种高度娱乐的源泉，感觉你把我们所有人都带进来了。——也许我更容易怀疑，因为，说实话，我认为这对我自己来说可能是一种乐趣在同样的情况下。我认为我们之间有一点相似之处。

He bowed.
他鞠了一躬。

‘If not in our dispositions,’ she presently added, with a look of true sensibility, ‘there is a likeness in our destiny; the destiny which bids fair to connect us with two characters so much superior to our own.’
“如果我们的性情不同，”她立即补充道，脸上带着真正的感性，“我们的命运也有相似之处；但我们的命运却很相似。”命运公平地将我们与两个比我们自己优越得多的人物联系在一起。

‘True, true,’ he answered, warmly. ‘No, not true on your side. You can have no superior, but most true on mine.—She is a complete angel. Look at her. Is not she an angel in every gesture? Observe the turn of her throat. Observe her eyes, as she is looking up at my father.— You will be glad to hear (inclining his head, and whispering seriously) that my uncle means to give her all my aunt’s jewels. They are to be new set. I am resolved to have some in an ornament for the head. Will not it be beautiful in her dark hair?’
“真的，真的，”他热情地回答。 ‘不，你这边不是这样。你可以没有优越者，但对我来说最真实。——她是一个彻头彻尾的天使。看着她。她的每一个动作不都是天使吗？观察她喉咙的转动。观察她的眼睛，她正在抬头看着我的父亲。——你会很高兴听到（歪着头，认真地低声）我叔叔打算把我姨妈的所有珠宝都给她。它们将是新的。我决定买一些作为头上的装饰品。她的黑发不是很漂亮吗？

‘Very beautiful, indeed,’ replied Emma; and she spoke so kindly, that he gratefully burst out,
“确实非常漂亮，”艾玛回答道。她说话如此友善，他感激地脱口而出，

‘How delighted I am to see you again! and to see you in such excellent looks!—I would not have missed this meeting for the world. I should certainly have called at Hartfield, had you failed to come.’
‘再次见到你我真是太高兴了！看到你如此出色的容貌！——我绝对不会错过这次会议。如果你没来的话，我当然应该去哈特菲尔德拜访。

The others had been talking of the child, Mrs. Weston giving an account of a little alarm she had been under, the evening before, from the infant’s appearing not quite well. She believed she had been foolish, but it had alarmed her, and she had been within half a minute of sending for Mr. Perry. Perhaps she ought to be ashamed, but Mr. Weston had been almost as uneasy as herself.—In ten minutes, however, the child had been perfectly well again. This was her history; and particularly interesting it was to Mr. Woodhouse, who commended her very much for thinking of sending for Perry, and only regretted that she had not done it. ‘She should always send for Perry, if the child appeared in the slightest degree disordered, were it only for a moment. She could not be too soon alarmed, nor send for Perry too often. It was a pity, perhaps, that he had not come last night; for, though the child seemed well now, very well considering, it would probably have been better if Perry had seen it.’
其他人一直在谈论这个孩子，韦斯顿夫人讲述了前一天晚上她因婴儿表现不佳而感到的一点惊慌。她相信自己很愚蠢，但这让她感到震惊，半分钟后她就派人去找佩里先生了。也许她应该感到羞耻，但韦斯顿先生几乎和她自己一样不安。——然而，十分钟后，孩子就完全康复了。这就是她的历史；伍德豪斯先生对此特别感兴趣，他非常赞扬她考虑派人去请佩里，只是遗憾她没有这样做。 “如果孩子表现出哪怕是一瞬间的轻微紊乱，她应该总是派人去叫佩里。她不能太快惊慌，也不能太频繁地派人去找佩里。或许，很遗憾他昨晚没有来。因为，虽然这孩子现在看起来很好，考虑得很好，但如果佩里看到它可能会更好。

Frank Churchill caught the name.
弗兰克·丘吉尔听到了这个名字。

‘Perry!’ said he to Emma, and trying, as he spoke, to catch Miss Fairfax’s eye. ‘My friend Mr. Perry! What are they saying about Mr. Perry?—Has he been here this morning?—And how does he travel now?—Has he set up his carriage?’
“佩里！”他对艾玛说道，一边说话一边试图吸引费尔法克斯小姐的目光。 “我的朋友佩里先生！他们对佩里先生有什么看法？——他今天早上来过这里吗？——他现在怎么出行？——他已经安排好马车了吗？

Emma soon recollected, and understood him; and while she joined in the laugh, it was evident from Jane’s countenance that she too was really hearing him, though trying to seem deaf.
艾玛很快就想起来了，也理解了他的意思。当她也跟着笑起来时，从简的表情可以明显看出，她也确实听到了他的声音，尽管她努力装聋作哑。

‘Such an extraordinary dream of mine!’ he cried. ‘I can never think of it without laughing.—She hears us, she hears us, Miss Woodhouse. I see it in her cheek, her smile, her vain attempt to frown. Look at her. Do not you see that, at this instant, the very passage of her own letter, which sent me the report, is passing under her eye— that the whole blunder is spread before her—that she can attend to nothing else, though pretending to listen to the others?’
“我的梦想真是太非凡了！”他喊道。 “一想到这件事我就忍不住笑。——她听到了我们的声音，她听到了我们的声音，伍德豪斯小姐。我从她的脸颊、她的微笑、她徒劳的皱眉中看到了这一点。看着她。难道你没有看到，此时此刻，她自己写给我报告的那封信的那一段，正在她的眼皮子底下流逝——整个错误都在她面前展开——她除了假装不关心其他事情之外，什么也做不了。听别人的吗？

Jane was forced to smile completely, for a moment; and the smile partly remained as she turned towards him, and said in a conscious, low, yet steady voice,
有那么一会儿，简被迫完全笑了。当她转向他时，她的微笑仍然保留了一半，并用有意识的、低沉但稳定的声音说道：

‘How you can bear such recollections, is astonishing to me!— They will sometimes obtrude—but how you can court them!’
“你怎么能忍受这样的回忆，这让我感到惊讶！——他们有时会很唐突——但你怎么能向他们求爱！”

He had a great deal to say in return, and very entertainingly; but Emma’s feelings were chiefly with Jane, in the argument; and on leaving Randalls, and falling naturally into a comparison of the two men, she felt, that pleased as she had been to see Frank Churchill, and really regarding him as she did with friendship, she had never been more sensible of Mr. Knightley’s high superiority of character. The happiness of this most happy day, received its completion, in the animated contemplation of his worth which this comparison produced.
作为回报，他说了很多话，而且非常有趣。但在争论中，艾玛的感情主要集中在简身上。离开兰德尔斯后，她自然而然地对这两​​个人进行了比较，她感到，尽管她很高兴见到弗兰克·丘吉尔，并且真正像对待友谊一样对待他，但她从未像现在这样对奈特利先生的感情更加敏感。性格上的高度优越感。这个最幸福的一天的幸福，在这种比较所产生的对他的价值的热烈思考中得到了完成。

Chapter XIX
第十九章

If Emma had still, at intervals, an anxious feeling for Harriet, a momentary doubt of its being possible for her to be really cured of her attachment to Mr. Knightley, and really able to accept another man from unbiased inclination, it was not long that she had to suffer from the recurrence of any such uncertainty. A very few days brought the party from London, and she had no sooner an opportunity of being one hour alone with Harriet, than she became perfectly satisfied—unaccountable as it was!— that Robert Martin had thoroughly supplanted Mr. Knightley, and was now forming all her views of happiness.
如果艾玛仍然时不时地对哈丽特抱有一种焦虑的感觉，怀疑她是否有可能真正治愈对奈特利先生的依恋，并真正能够从公正的倾向中接受另一个男人，那么不久之后她必须承受再次出现这种不确定性的痛苦。几天后，聚会就从伦敦举行了，她一有机会与哈丽特独处一小时，就感到非常满意——尽管这是不负责任的！——罗伯特·马丁已经彻底取代了奈特利先生，现在是形成了她所有的幸福观。

Harriet was a little distressed—did look a little foolish at first: but having once owned that she had been presumptuous and silly, and self-deceived, before, her pain and confusion seemed to die away with the words, and leave her without a care for the past, and with the fullest exultation in the present and future; for, as to her friend’s approbation, Emma had instantly removed every fear of that nature, by meeting her with the most unqualified congratulations.— Harriet was most happy to give every particular of the evening at Astley’s, and the dinner the next day; she could dwell on it all with the utmost delight. But what did such particulars explain?— The fact was, as Emma could now acknowledge, that Harriet had always liked Robert Martin; and that his continuing to love her had been irresistible.—Beyond this, it must ever be unintelligible to Emma.
哈丽特有点苦恼——一开始确实看起来有点傻：但一旦承认自己以前是自以为是、愚蠢、自欺欺人，她的痛苦和困惑似乎随着这句话而消失了，让她没有了任何感觉。关心过去，并对现在和未来充满喜悦；因为，至于她朋友的认可，爱玛立即消除了对这种性质的所有恐惧，她向她表示了最无条件的祝贺。——哈丽特非常高兴地讲述了当晚在阿斯特利家的每一个细节，以及第二天的晚餐;她可以非常高兴地思考这一切。但这些细节能解释什么呢？——事实是，正如艾玛现在承认的那样，哈丽特一直喜欢罗伯特·马丁；但事实是，哈丽特一直喜欢罗伯特·马丁。而且他对她的持续爱是不可抗拒的。——除此之外，艾玛一定永远无法理解这一点。

The event, however, was most joyful; and every day was giving her fresh reason for thinking so.—Harriet’s parentage became known. She proved to be the daughter of a tradesman, rich enough to afford her the comfortable maintenance which had ever been hers, and decent enough to have always wished for concealment.—Such was the blood of gentility which Emma had formerly been so ready to vouch for!— It was likely to be as untainted, perhaps, as the blood of many a gentleman: but what a connexion had she been preparing for Mr. Knightley—or for the Churchills—or even for Mr. Elton!— The stain of illegitimacy, unbleached by nobility or wealth, would have been a stain indeed.
然而，这件事是最令人高兴的。每一天都让她有新的理由这么想。——哈丽特的出身众所周知。事实证明，她是一个商人的女儿，她足够富有，可以为她提供舒适的生活，而她又很体面，一直希望隐藏起来。——这就是艾玛以前如此愿意保证的绅士血统。因为！——也许，它可能像许多绅士的鲜血一样未被污染：但她为奈特利先生——或者丘吉尔一家——甚至埃尔顿先生准备了怎样的联系啊！——私生子如果没有受到贵族或财富的玷污，确实会成为一种污点。

No objection was raised on the father’s side; the young man was treated liberally; it was all as it should be: and as Emma became acquainted with Robert Martin, who was now introduced at Hartfield, she fully acknowledged in him all the appearance of sense and worth which could bid fairest for her little friend. She had no doubt of Harriet’s happiness with any good-tempered man; but with him, and in the home he offered, there would be the hope of more, of security, stability, and improvement. She would be placed in the midst of those who loved her, and who had better sense than herself; retired enough for safety, and occupied enough for cheerfulness. She would be never led into temptation, nor left for it to find her out. She would be respectable and happy; and Emma admitted her to be the luckiest creature in the world, to have created so steady and persevering an affection in such a man;—or, if not quite the luckiest, to yield only to herself.
父亲方面没有提出异议；这位年轻人受到了慷慨的对待。一切都是理所应当的：当艾玛认识了罗伯特·马丁（现在被介绍到哈特菲尔德）时，她完全承认他身上所有的理智和价值对她的小朋友来说都是最公平的。她毫不怀疑哈丽特和任何好脾气的男人在一起都会幸福。但有了他，在他提供的家中，就会有更多的希望，安全、稳定和改善。她会被置于那些爱她、比她更有理智的人中间。为了安全而退休，为了快乐而忙碌。她永远不会陷入诱惑，也不会被诱惑发现。她会受人尊敬、幸福快乐；艾玛承认她是世界上最幸运的人，能够在这样一个男人身上产生如此稳定和持久的感情；或者，如果不是最幸运的话，她只屈服于自己。

Harriet, necessarily drawn away by her engagements with the Martins, was less and less at Hartfield; which was not to be regretted.— The intimacy between her and Emma must sink; their friendship must change into a calmer sort of goodwill; and, fortunately, what ought to be, and must be, seemed already beginning, and in the most gradual, natural manner.
哈丽特必然被她与马丁夫妇的交往所吸引，在哈特菲尔德的时间越来越少。这并不值得遗憾。——她和艾玛之间的亲密关系必定会恶化；他们的友谊必须转变为一种更平静的善意；幸运的是，应该发生、必须发生的事情似乎已经开始，而且以最渐进、最自然的方式发生。

Before the end of September, Emma attended Harriet to church, and saw her hand bestowed on Robert Martin with so complete a satisfaction, as no remembrances, even connected with Mr. Elton as he stood before them, could impair.—Perhaps, indeed, at that time she scarcely saw Mr. Elton, but as the clergyman whose blessing at the altar might next fall on herself.—Robert Martin and Harriet Smith, the latest couple engaged of the three, were the first to be married.
九月底之前，艾玛陪哈丽特去教堂，看到她向罗伯特·马丁伸出了手，她感到非常满意，任何记忆，甚至是与站在他们面前的埃尔顿先生有关的记忆，都无法削弱。——也许，确实，那时她几乎没见过埃尔顿先生，但作为牧师，她在圣坛上的祝福接下来可能会落在她自己身上。——罗伯特·马丁和哈里特·史密斯是三人中最新订婚的一对，也是第一对结婚的夫妇。

Jane Fairfax had already quitted Highbury, and was restored to the comforts of her beloved home with the Campbells.—The Mr. Churchills were also in town; and they were only waiting for November.
简·费尔法克斯已经离开了海布里，回到了坎贝尔一家她心爱的舒适的家。——丘吉尔先生也在城里。他们只等待十一月。

The intermediate month was the one fixed on, as far as they dared, by Emma and Mr. Knightley.—They had determined that their marriage ought to be concluded while John and Isabella were still at Hartfield, to allow them the fortnight’s absence in a tour to the seaside, which was the plan.—John and Isabella, and every other friend, were agreed in approving it. But Mr. Woodhouse—how was Mr. Woodhouse to be induced to consent?—he, who had never yet alluded to their marriage but as a distant event.
艾玛和奈特利先生尽可能地确定了中间的一个月。他们决定，当约翰和伊莎贝拉还在哈特菲尔德时，他们的婚姻应该结束，让他们可以缺席两周。去海边旅行，这就是计划。——约翰和伊莎贝拉，以及其他所有的朋友，都同意批准这个计划。但是伍德豪斯先生——怎样才能让伍德豪斯先生同意呢？——他从来没有提到过他们的婚姻，只是把这当作是一件遥远的事情。

When first sounded on the subject, he was so miserable, that they were almost hopeless.—A second allusion, indeed, gave less pain.— He began to think it was to be, and that he could not prevent it— a very promising step of the mind on its way to resignation. Still, however, he was not happy. Nay, he appeared so much otherwise, that his daughter’s courage failed. She could not bear to see him suffering, to know him fancying himself neglected; and though her understanding almost acquiesced in the assurance of both the Mr. Knightleys, that when once the event were over, his distress would be soon over too, she hesitated—she could not proceed.
当第一次谈到这个话题时，他感到非常痛苦，以至于他们几乎绝望了。——事实上，第二个暗示减轻了痛苦。——他开始认为这是必然的，而且他无法阻止它——一个非常有希望的事情。心灵迈向辞职的一步。然而，他仍然不高兴。不仅如此，他的表现实在是太不一样了，以至于他女儿都失去了勇气。她不忍心看到他受苦，也不忍心看到他自以为被忽视。虽然她的理解几乎默认了奈特利先生的保证，一旦事件结束，他的痛苦也会很快结束，但她犹豫了——她无法继续。

In this state of suspense they were befriended, not by any sudden illumination of Mr. Woodhouse’s mind, or any wonderful change of his nervous system, but by the operation of the same system in another way.— Mrs. Weston’s poultry-house was robbed one night of all her turkeys— evidently by the ingenuity of man. Other poultry-yards in the neighbourhood also suffered.—Pilfering was housebreaking to Mr. Woodhouse’s fears.—He was very uneasy; and but for the sense of his son-in-law’s protection, would have been under wretched alarm every night of his life. The strength, resolution, and presence of mind of the Mr. Knightleys, commanded his fullest dependence. While either of them protected him and his, Hartfield was safe.— But Mr. John Knightley must be in London again by the end of the first week in November.
在这种悬而未决的状态下，他们成了朋友，不是因为伍德豪斯先生的思想突然灵光一现，也不是因为他的神经系统发生了任何奇妙的变化，而是因为同一系统以另一种方式运作。——韦斯顿夫人的禽舍被抢劫了。一晚她所有的火鸡都被吃光了——显然是人类的聪明才智。附近的其他家禽饲养场也遭受了损失。——令伍德豪斯先生担心的是，盗窃就是入室行窃。——他非常不安；他很担心。如果没有女婿的保护，他一生中的每晚都会受到可怕的惊吓。奈特利先生的力量、决心和冷静让他完全依赖。虽然他们中的任何一个都保护了他和他的孩子，但哈特菲尔德是安全的。——但是约翰·奈特利先生必须在十一月的第一周结束之前再次回到伦敦。

The result of this distress was, that, with a much more voluntary, cheerful consent than his daughter had ever presumed to hope for at the moment, she was able to fix her wedding-day—and Mr. Elton was called on, within a month from the marriage of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Martin, to join the hands of Mr. Knightley and Miss Woodhouse.
这种痛苦的结果是，在比他女儿当时所希望的更加自愿、愉快的同意下，她能够确定她的婚礼日期——埃尔顿先生在不到一分钟的时间内就被拜访了。罗伯特·马丁夫妇结婚一个月后，奈特利先生和伍德豪斯小姐携手并进。

The wedding was very much like other weddings, where the parties have no taste for finery or parade; and Mrs. Elton, from the particulars detailed by her husband, thought it all extremely shabby, and very inferior to her own.—‘Very little white satin, very few lace veils; a most pitiful business!—Selina would stare when she heard of it.’—But, in spite of these deficiencies, the wishes, the hopes, the confidence, the predictions of the small band of true friends who witnessed the ceremony, were fully answered in the perfect happiness of the union.
这场婚礼与其他婚礼非常相似，当事人对华丽或游行没有品味；埃尔顿夫人从她丈夫详细描述的细节来看，认为这一切都非常破旧，而且比她自己的还要低劣。一件最可怜的事情！——塞琳娜听到这件事，一定会瞪大眼睛。”——但是，尽管有这些缺陷，见证了这一仪式的一小群真正的朋友的愿望、希望、信心和预测，都完全实现了。答案是结合的完美幸福。

FINIS
菲尼斯