
Bleak House
荒凉山庄

By Charles Dickens
查尔斯·狄更斯

PREFACE
前言

A Chancery judge once had the kindness to inform me, as one of a company of some hundred and fifty men and women not labouring under any suspicions of lunacy, that the Court of Chancery, though the shining subject of much popular prejudice (at which point I thought the judge’s eye had a cast in my direction), was almost immaculate. There had been, he admitted, a trivial blemish or so in its rate of progress, but this was exaggerated and had been entirely owing to the ‘parsimony of the public,’ which guilty public, it appeared, had been until lately bent in the most determined manner on by no means enlarging the number of Chancery judges appointed—I believe by Richard the Second, but any other king will do as well.
一位大法官曾经善意地告诉我，作为一群没有任何精神错乱嫌疑的一百五十名男男女女中的一员，大法官法院虽然是许多民众偏见的光辉主题（在这一点上）我认为法官的目光投向了我的方向），几乎完美无缺。他承认，在其进展速度上存在着一个微不足道的缺陷，但这被夸大了，而且完全是由于“公众的吝啬”，有罪的公众似乎直到最近才屈服于“公众的吝啬”。最坚决的方式是决不增加任命的大法官的数量——我相信理查二世会这样做，但任何其他国王也会这样做。

This seemed to me too profound a joke to be inserted in the body of this book or I should have restored it to Conversation Kenge or to Mr. Vholes, with one or other of whom I think it must have originated. In such mouths I might have coupled it with an apt quotation from one of Shakespeare’s sonnets:
在我看来，这是一个太深刻的笑话，无法插入到本书的正文中，否则我应该将其恢复到《对话肯格》或弗霍尔斯先生那里，我认为它一定是由他们中的一个或另一个人发起的。在这样的人嘴里，我可能会把它与莎士比亚十四行诗之一的恰当引用结合起来：

“My nature is subdued
“我的本性是压抑的

To what it works in, like the dyer’s hand:
至于它的作用，就像染工的手一样：

Pity me, then, and wish I were renewed!’
那么可怜我吧，希望我能重获新生！

But as it is wholesome that the parsimonious public should know what has been doing, and still is doing, in this connexion, I mention here that everything set forth in these pages concerning the Court of Chancery is substantially true, and within the truth. The case of Gridley is in no essential altered from one of actual occurrence, made public by a disinterested person who was professionally acquainted with the whole of the monstrous wrong from beginning to end. At the present moment (August, 1853) there is a suit before the court which was commenced nearly twenty years ago, in which from thirty to forty counsel have been known to appear at one time, in which costs have been incurred to the amount of seventy thousand pounds, which is A FRIENDLY SUIT, and which is (I am assured) no nearer to its termination now than when it was begun. There is another well-known suit in Chancery, not yet decided, which was commenced before the close of the last century and in which more than double the amount of seventy thousand pounds has been swallowed up in costs. If I wanted other authorities for Jarndyce and Jarndyce, I could rain them on these pages, to the shame of—a parsimonious public.
但是，在这方面，节俭的公众应该知道过去和现在正在做的事情是有益的，因此我在这里提到，这些页面中有关大法官法院的所有内容基本上都是真实的，并且是在事实范围内的。格里德利的案件与实际发生的事件没有本质上的不同，是由一位公正的人公开的，他在专业上从头到尾都熟悉整个可怕的错误。目前（1853 年 8 月），法庭上有一起诉讼，该诉讼是在近二十年前开始的，已知有 30 至 40 名律师同时出庭，诉讼费用为七万英镑，这是一套友好的套装，而且（我确信）现在并不比开始时更接近终止。在大法官法庭还有另一起著名的诉讼，尚未判决，该诉讼于上世纪末之前开始，其中七万英镑的金额已被支付一倍以上的费用。如果我想要贾迪斯和贾迪斯的其他权威，我可以在这些页面上倾注它们，让吝啬的公众感到羞耻。

There is only one other point on which I offer a word of remark. The possibility of what is called spontaneous combustion has been denied since the death of Mr. Krook; and my good friend Mr. Lewes (quite mistaken, as he soon found, in supposing the thing to have been abandoned by all authorities) published some ingenious letters to me at the time when that event was chronicled, arguing that spontaneous combustion could not possibly be. I have no need to observe that I do not wilfully or negligently mislead my readers and that before I wrote that description I took pains to investigate the subject. There are about thirty cases on record, of which the most famous, that of the Countess Cornelia de Baudi Cesenate, was minutely investigated and described by Giuseppe Bianchini, a prebendary of Verona, otherwise distinguished in letters, who published an account of it at Verona in 1731, which he afterwards republished at Rome. The appearances, beyond all rational doubt, observed in that case are the appearances observed in Mr. Krook’s case. The next most famous instance happened at Rheims six years earlier, and the historian in that case is Le Cat, one of the most renowned surgeons produced by France. The subject was a woman, whose husband was ignorantly convicted of having murdered her; but on solemn appeal to a higher court, he was acquitted because it was shown upon the evidence that she had died the death of which this name of spontaneous combustion is given. I do not think it necessary to add to these notable facts, and that general reference to the authorities which will be found at page 30, vol. ii.,* the recorded opinions and experiences of distinguished medical professors, French, English, and Scotch, in more modern days, contenting myself with observing that I shall not abandon the facts until there shall have been a considerable spontaneous combustion of the testimony on which human occurrences are usually received.
我只有一点要说一说。自从克鲁克先生去世以来，所谓的自燃的可能性就被否认了。我的好朋友刘易斯先生（他很快发现，他认为所有当局都放弃了这件事，这是完全错误的）在记录该事件时向我发表了一些巧妙的信件，认为自燃不可能是。我不需要指出我没有故意或疏忽地误导我的读者，并且在我写下这个描述之前我煞费苦心地调查了这个主题。记录在案的案件大约有三十起，其中最著名的是科妮莉亚·德·鲍迪·切塞纳特伯爵夫人的案件，朱塞佩·比安基尼（维罗纳的准主教）详细调查并描述了这一案件，他在信件中也颇有名气，他在维罗纳发表了对此案的描述。 1731 年，他随后在罗马再版。毫无疑问，在该案件中观察到的表现就是在克鲁克先生的案件中观察到的表现。下一个最著名的例子发生在六年前的兰斯，该事件的历史学家是法国最著名的外科医生之一勒卡特。拍摄对象是一名妇女，她的丈夫在无知的情况下被判谋杀了她。但在向上级法院提出庄严上诉后，他被无罪释放，因为有证据表明她是因自燃而死亡。我认为没有必要对这些值得注意的事实以及对当局的一般性参考进行补充，这些内容可以在第 30 卷第 30 页找到。二.，*记录了法国、英国和苏格兰杰出医学教授的观点和经验，在更现代的日子里，我满足于观察，我不会放弃事实，直到人类所依据的证词发生相当大的自燃。通常会收到事件。

In Bleak House I have purposely dwelt upon the romantic side of familiar things.
在《荒凉山庄》中，我特意探讨了熟悉事物浪漫的一面。

1853

* Another case, very clearly described by a dentist, occurred at the town of Columbus, in the United States of America, quite recently. The subject was a German who kept a liquor-shop aud was an inveterate drunkard.
* 牙医非常清楚地描述了另一个案例，最近发生在美利坚合众国哥伦布镇。主题是一个开酒铺的德国人，他是个酒鬼。

CHAPTER I
第一章


In Chancery
在大法官办公室

London. Michaelmas term lately over, and the Lord Chancellor sitting in Lincoln’s Inn Hall. Implacable November weather. As much mud in the streets as if the waters had but newly retired from the face of the earth, and it would not be wonderful to meet a Megalosaurus, forty feet long or so, waddling like an elephantine lizard up Holborn Hill. Smoke lowering down from chimney-pots, making a soft black drizzle, with flakes of soot in it as big as full-grown snowflakes—gone into mourning, one might imagine, for the death of the sun. Dogs, undistinguishable in mire. Horses, scarcely better; splashed to their very blinkers. Foot passengers, jostling one another’s umbrellas in a general infection of ill temper, and losing their foot-hold at street-corners, where tens of thousands of other foot passengers have been slipping and sliding since the day broke (if this day ever broke), adding new deposits to the crust upon crust of mud, sticking at those points tenaciously to the pavement, and accumulating at compound interest.
伦敦。米迦勒节刚刚结束，大法官坐在林肯旅馆大厅里。十一月的天气无情。街道上满是泥巴，就好像海水刚刚从地球表面退去一样，如果遇到一头四十英尺左右长、像大象蜥蜴一样摇摇晃晃爬上霍尔本山的斑龙，那可就不是什么好事了。烟从烟囱里飘下来，化作一阵柔和的黑色毛毛雨，里面夹着烟灰片，大得像成熟的雪花——人们可能会想象，这是在哀悼太阳的死亡。狗，在泥沼中难以辨认。马也好不了多少；溅到了他们的眼罩上。徒步乘客们普遍发脾气，互相推撞雨伞，在街角失去立足点，从天亮起（如果这一天真的出现的话），数以万计的步行乘客不断滑倒。 ，在泥土的地壳上添加新的沉积物，在这些点上顽强地粘附在路面上，并以复利积累。

Fog everywhere. Fog up the river, where it flows among green aits and meadows; fog down the river, where it rolls deified among the tiers of shipping and the waterside pollutions of a great (and dirty) city. Fog on the Essex marshes, fog on the Kentish heights. Fog creeping into the cabooses of collier-brigs; fog lying out on the yards and hovering in the rigging of great ships; fog drooping on the gunwales of barges and small boats. Fog in the eyes and throats of ancient Greenwich pensioners, wheezing by the firesides of their wards; fog in the stem and bowl of the afternoon pipe of the wrathful skipper, down in his close cabin; fog cruelly pinching the toes and fingers of his shivering little ‘prentice boy on deck. Chance people on the bridges peeping over the parapets into a nether sky of fog, with fog all round them, as if they were up in a balloon and hanging in the misty clouds.
到处都是雾。雾气顺着河流而上，在绿色的艾特和草地间流动；雾沿着河顺流而下，在一座伟大（而且肮脏）城市的层层航运和水边污染中翻滚，神化了。埃塞克斯沼泽上有雾，肯特高地上有雾。雾气爬进了运煤双桅船的守车里；雾气笼罩在船坞上，盘旋在大船的索具上；雾气低垂在驳船和小船的舷缘上。古老的格林威治养老金领取者在病房的炉边喘着粗气，眼睛和喉咙里充满了雾气；愤怒的船长在他那封闭的船舱里，下午的烟斗里有雾气。雾气残酷地挤压着他在甲板上瑟瑟发抖的小学徒的脚趾和手指。偶尔有人在桥上，越过栏杆，窥视着雾气弥漫的下空，周围都是雾气，仿佛乘坐气球，悬挂在云雾之中。

Gas looming through the fog in divers places in the streets, much as the sun may, from the spongey fields, be seen to loom by husbandman and ploughboy. Most of the shops lighted two hours before their time—as the gas seems to know, for it has a haggard and unwilling look.
街道上不同地方的气体透过雾气若隐若现，就像农夫和农夫看到的太阳从海绵状的田野中若隐若现一样。大多数商店都提前两小时亮灯——煤气似乎知道这一点，因为它看上去憔悴而不情愿。

The raw afternoon is rawest, and the dense fog is densest, and the muddy streets are muddiest near that leaden-headed old obstruction, appropriate ornament for the threshold of a leaden-headed old corporation, Temple Bar. And hard by Temple Bar, in Lincoln’s Inn Hall, at the very heart of the fog, sits the Lord High Chancellor in his High Court of Chancery.
午后的天气最原始，浓雾最浓，泥泞的街道在那个铅头老障碍附近最泥泞，这对铅头老公司圣殿酒吧的门槛来说是适当的装饰。紧邻圣殿酒吧区的林肯律师学院大厅，在雾气的正中心，大法官坐在他的高等法院中。

Never can there come fog too thick, never can there come mud and mire too deep, to assort with the groping and floundering condition which this High Court of Chancery, most pestilent of hoary sinners, holds this day in the sight of heaven and earth.
浓雾再浓，泥沼再深，都无法与这个最令白发罪人瘟疫的大法官高等法院今天在天地面前所面临的摸索和挣扎的状况相匹配。

On such an afternoon, if ever, the Lord High Chancellor ought to be sitting her—as here he is—with a foggy glory round his head, softly fenced in with crimson cloth and curtains, addressed by a large advocate with great whiskers, a little voice, and an interminable brief, and outwardly directing his contemplation to the lantern in the roof, where he can see nothing but fog. On such an afternoon some score of members of the High Court of Chancery bar ought to be—as here they are—mistily engaged in one of the ten thousand stages of an endless cause, tripping one another up on slippery precedents, groping knee-deep in technicalities, running their goat-hair and horsehair warded heads against walls of words and making a pretence of equity with serious faces, as players might. On such an afternoon the various solicitors in the cause, some two or three of whom have inherited it from their fathers, who made a fortune by it, ought to be—as are they not?—ranged in a line, in a long matted well (but you might look in vain for truth at the bottom of it) between the registrar’s red table and the silk gowns, with bills, cross-bills, answers, rejoinders, injunctions, affidavits, issues, references to masters, masters’ reports, mountains of costly nonsense, piled before them. Well may the court be dim, with wasting candles here and there; well may the fog hang heavy in it, as if it would never get out; well may the stained-glass windows lose their colour and admit no light of day into the place; well may the uninitiated from the streets, who peep in through the glass panes in the door, be deterred from entrance by its owlish aspect and by the drawl, languidly echoing to the roof from the padded dais where the Lord High Chancellor looks into the lantern that has no light in it and where the attendant wigs are all stuck in a fog-bank! This is the Court of Chancery, which has its decaying houses and its blighted lands in every shire, which has its worn-out lunatic in every madhouse and its dead in every churchyard, which has its ruined suitor with his slipshod heels and threadbare dress borrowing and begging through the round of every man’s acquaintance, which gives to monied might the means abundantly of wearying out the right, which so exhausts finances, patience, courage, hope, so overthrows the brain and breaks the heart, that there is not an honourable man among its practitioners who would not give—who does not often give—the warning, ‘Suffer any wrong that can be done you rather than come here!’
在这样的一个下午，如果有的话，大法官应该坐在她身边——就像他在这里一样——头上带着雾气的荣耀，用深红色的布和窗帘轻轻地围起来，由一位长着大胡子的大律师致辞，微弱的声音和没完没了的简短陈述，表面上把他的沉思引向屋顶上的灯笼，在那里他除了雾什么也看不见。在这样一个下午，大法官高等法院律师事务所的一些成员应该——就像他们在这里一样——迷迷糊糊地从事一项永无休止的事业的一万个阶段之一，在滑溜溜的先例中互相绊倒，在齐膝深的摸索中在技​​术细节上，他们把山羊毛和马鬃的头撞在文字墙上，并像球员一样，用严肃的表情假装公平。在这样一个下午，参与这项事业的各路律师，其中大约有两三个人从他们的父亲那里继承了这项事业，并靠这项事业发了大财，他们应该——他们不是吗？——排成一排，排成长长的席子。好吧（但你可能会徒劳地在登记员的红色桌子和丝绸长袍之间寻找真相），其中有账单，交叉账单，答案，反驳，禁令，宣誓书，问题，对大师的参考，大师的报告，堆积如山的昂贵废话摆在他们面前。 愿法庭昏暗，到处都是浪费的蜡烛；愿浓雾笼罩其中，仿佛永远无法散去；愿彩色玻璃窗褪去颜色，让阳光无法进入这个地方；街上的外行人如果透过门上的玻璃窗往里看，可能会被它那猫头鹰般的外表和慢吞吞的声音吓得不敢进去。里面没有光，随之而来的假发都卡在雾库里了！这就是大法官法庭，每个郡都有破败的房屋和荒芜的土地，每个疯人院都有疲惫不堪的疯子，每个教堂墓地都有死人，每个郡都有穿着破烂高跟鞋和破烂衣服的破产求婚者。并通过每个人的熟人的轮流乞讨，这给了有钱人大量的手段，使权利耗尽，这耗尽了财力，耐心，勇气，希望，所以推翻了大脑，破碎了心，以至于没有一个可敬的人。在它的实践者中，有一个人不会发出——也不会经常发出——这样的警告：“无论遭受什么委屈，都不要来这里！”’

Who happen to be in the Lord Chancellor’s court this murky afternoon besides the Lord Chancellor, the counsel in the cause, two or three counsel who are never in any cause, and the well of solicitors before mentioned? There is the registrar below the judge, in wig and gown; and there are two or three maces, or pettybags, or privy purses, or whatever they may be, in legal court suits. These are all yawning, for no crumb of amusement ever falls from Jarndyce and Jarndyce (the cause in hand), which was squeezed dry years upon years ago. The short-hand writers, the reporters of the court, and the reporters of the newspapers invariably decamp with the rest of the regulars when Jarndyce and Jarndyce comes on. Their places are a blank. Standing on a seat at the side of the hall, the better to peer into the curtained sanctuary, is a little mad old woman in a squeezed bonnet who is always in court, from its sitting to its rising, and always expecting some incomprehensible judgment to be given in her favour. Some say she really is, or was, a party to a suit, but no one knows for certain because no one cares. She carries some small litter in a reticule which she calls her documents, principally consisting of paper matches and dry lavender. A sallow prisoner has come up, in custody, for the halfdozenth time to make a personal application ‘to purge himself of his contempt,’ which, being a solitary surviving executor who has fallen into a state of conglomeration about accounts of which it is not pretended that he had ever any knowledge, he is not at all likely ever to do. In the meantime his prospects in life are ended. Another ruined suitor, who periodically appears from Shropshire and breaks out into efforts to address the Chancellor at the close of the day’s business and who can by no means be made to understand that the Chancellor is legally ignorant of his existence after making it desolate for a quarter of a century, plants himself in a good place and keeps an eye on the judge, ready to call out ‘My Lord!’ in a voice of sonorous complaint on the instant of his rising. A few lawyers’ clerks and others who know this suitor by sight linger on the chance of his furnishing some fun and enlivening the dismal weather a little.
这个阴暗的下午，除了大法官、诉讼中的律师、两三个从未参与过任何诉讼的律师以及前面提到的律师之外，碰巧出现在大法官法庭上的还有谁？法官下面是书记员，戴着假发，穿着长袍。在法庭诉讼中，有两三个狼牙棒、小钱袋、私房钱袋或其他任何东西。这些人都在打哈欠，因为贾迪斯和贾迪斯（手头的事业）在很多年前就被榨干了，没有一丝乐趣可言。当贾迪斯和贾迪斯上场时，速记员、法庭记者和报纸记者总是和其他常客一起逃走。他们的位置是空白的。站在大厅一侧的座位上，为了更好地窥视被帘子遮蔽的圣所，有一个戴着帽子的小疯老妇，她总是在法庭上，从坐着到起立，总是期待着一些难以理解的判决。对她有利。有人说她确实是，或者曾经是诉讼当事人，但没有人确切知道，因为没有人关心。她在手提包里携带了一些小垃圾，她称之为文件，主要包括纸火柴和干薰衣草。一名面色蜡黄的囚犯在拘留期间第六次提出个人申请，“以洗清自己的蔑视态度”，作为一名幸存的孤独执行者，他陷入了一种与账目无关的混乱状态。假装他拥有任何知识，但他根本不可能做到。与此同时，他的人生前景也结束了。 另一个破产的追求者，他定期从什罗普郡出现，并在当天的工作结束时突然向财政大臣讲话，但他决不能让他明白，财政大臣在让整个地方荒凉了一段时间后，在法律上对他的存在一无所知。二十五年了，他站在一个好位置，注视着法官，准备在他起身的那一刻用响亮的抱怨声喊“我的主！”。一些律师职员和其他认识这位求婚者的人都在徘徊，希望他能提供一些乐趣，让阴沉的天气稍微活跃起来。

Jarndyce and Jarndyce drones on. This scarecrow of a suit has, in course of time, become so complicated that no man alive knows what it means. The parties to it understand it least, but it has been observed that no two Chancery lawyers can talk about it for five minutes without coming to a total disagreement as to all the premises. Innumerable children have been born into the cause; innumerable young people have married into it; innumerable old people have died out of it. Scores of persons have deliriously found themselves made parties in Jarndyce and Jarndyce without knowing how or why; whole families have inherited legendary hatreds with the suit. The little plaintiff or defendant who was promised a new rocking-horse when Jarndyce and Jarndyce should be settled has grown up, possessed himself of a real horse, and trotted away into the other world. Fair wards of court have faded into mothers and grandmothers; a long procession of Chancellors has come in and gone out; the legion of bills in the suit have been transformed into mere bills of mortality; there are not three Jarndyces left upon the earth perhaps since old Tom Jarndyce in despair blew his brains out at a coffee-house in Chancery Lane; but Jarndyce and Jarndyce still drags its dreary length before the court, perennially hopeless.
贾迪斯和贾迪斯嗡嗡作响。随着时间的推移，这套稻草人套装已经变得如此复杂，以至于没有人知道它意味着什么。当事人对它的理解最少，但据观察，没有两名大法官律师能够在五分钟内谈论它而不会对所有前提产生完全分歧。为了这项事业，诞生了无数的孩子；无数年轻人嫁入其中；无数老人因此死去。许多人疯狂地发现自己在加迪斯和加迪斯参加聚会，但不知道如何或为什么；整个家族都与这套套装继承了传奇的仇恨。当贾迪斯和贾迪斯和解时，那个被许诺拥有一匹新摇马的小原告或被告已经长大了，拥有了一匹真正的马，并小跑到了另一个世界。宫廷里公平的监护人已经变成了母亲和祖母；一长列大臣进出。诉讼中的大量账单已转变为纯粹的死亡账单；也许自从老汤姆·贾迪斯在大法官巷的一家咖啡馆里绝望地开枪打碎他的脑袋以来，地球上已经没有三个贾迪斯了。但加迪斯和加迪斯仍然在法庭上拖着沉闷的时间，永远没有希望。

Jarndyce and Jarndyce has passed into a joke. That is the only good that has ever come of it. It has been death to many, but it is a joke in the profession. Every master in Chancery has had a reference out of it. Every Chancellor was ‘in it,’ for somebody or other, when he was counsel at the bar. Good things have been said about it by blue-nosed, bulbous-shoed old benchers in select portwine committee after dinner in hall. Articled clerks have been in the habit of fleshing their legal wit upon it. The last Lord Chancellor handled it neatly, when, correcting Mr. Blowers, the eminent silk gown who said that such a thing might happen when the sky rained potatoes, he observed, ‘or when we get through Jarndyce and Jarndyce, Mr. Blowers’—a pleasantry that particularly tickled the maces, bags, and purses.
贾迪斯和贾迪斯已经变成了笑话。这是它带来的唯一好处。这对很多人来说都是死亡，但在业内却是一个笑话。尚书院的每一位大师都曾有过这样的参考。当每一位财政大臣在律师事务所担任法律顾问时，他都会为某人或其他人“参与其中”。在大厅吃完晚饭后，波特酒特选委员会的蓝鼻子、球鞋的老议员们对此说了很多好话。文章职员习惯于在其上充实他们的法律智慧。上一任大法官巧妙地处理了这件事，当时，他纠正了布洛尔斯先生，这位著名的丝质长袍说，当天空下土豆雨时，这样的事情可能会发生，他观察到，“或者当我们通过贾迪斯和贾迪斯时，布洛尔斯先生” ——这种客套话让狼牙棒、袋子和钱包特别高兴。

How many people out of the suit Jarndyce and Jarndyce has stretched forth its unwholesome hand to spoil and corrupt would be a very wide question. From the master upon whose impaling files reams of dusty warrants in Jarndyce and Jarndyce have grimly writhed into many shapes, down to the copying-clerk in the Six Clerks’ Office who has copied his tens of thousands of Chancery folio-pages under that eternal heading, no man’s nature has been made better by it. In trickery, evasion, procrastination, spoliation, botheration, under false pretences of all sorts, there are influences that can never come to good. The very solicitors’ boys who have kept the wretched suitors at bay, by protesting time out of mind that Mr. Chizzle, Mizzle, or otherwise was particularly engaged and had appointments until dinner, may have got an extra moral twist and shuffle into themselves out of Jarndyce and Jarndyce. The receiver in the cause has acquired a goodly sum of money by it but has acquired too a distrust of his own mother and a contempt for his own kind. Chizzle, Mizzle, and otherwise have lapsed into a habit of vaguely promising themselves that they will look into that outstanding little matter and see what can be done for Drizzle—who was not well used—when Jarndyce and Jarndyce shall be got out of the office. Shirking and sharking in all their many varieties have been sown broadcast by the ill-fated cause; and even those who have contemplated its history from the outermost circle of such evil have been insensibly tempted into a loose way of letting bad things alone to take their own bad course, and a loose belief that if the world go wrong it was in some off-hand manner never meant to go right.
有多少人不在诉讼中，加迪斯和加迪斯已经伸出了不健康的手来破坏和腐败，这将是一个非常广泛的问题。从在扎迪斯和詹迪斯的档案中刺穿大量尘土飞扬的授权书的主人，到在这个永恒的标题下复印了数以万计的大法官办公室对开页的复印员，六人办公室的复印员，没有人的本性因此而变得更好。欺骗、逃避、拖延、破坏、骚扰，在各种虚假借口下，总有一些影响永远不会有好结果。正是那些律师的男孩们，通过抗议时间不放在心上，因为奇兹尔先生、米兹尔先生或其他人特别忙，并且约会到晚餐，从而阻止了那些可怜的求婚者，他们可能在道德上发生了额外的扭曲，并拖着自己的脚步出去了。贾迪斯和贾迪斯。这项事业的接收者由此获得了一大笔钱，但也对自己的母亲产生了不信任，对自己的同类产生了蔑视。奇兹尔、米兹尔和其他人已经养成了一种习惯，含糊地向自己保证，当贾迪斯和贾迪斯离开办公室时，他们会调查那件悬而未决的小事，看看能为没有得到很好利用的细雨做些什么。 。各种形式的偷懒和牟取暴利已经被这一不幸的事业所播撒。甚至那些从这种邪恶的最外层思考其历史的人，也会不知不觉地受到诱惑，采取一种松散的方式，让坏事自行其事，并且松散地相信，如果世界出了问题，那是因为某些方面出了问题。手的方式从来不意味着走对了。

Thus, in the midst of the mud and at the heart of the fog, sits the Lord High Chancellor in his High Court of Chancery.
因此，在泥泞之中，在雾气的中心，大法官坐在他的高等法院中。

‘Mr. Tangle,’ says the Lord High Chancellor, latterly something restless under the eloquence of that learned gentleman.
'先生。大法官说，在那位博学的绅士的雄辩之下，他的心情近来变得焦躁不安。

‘Mlud,’ says Mr. Tangle. Mr. Tangle knows more of Jarndyce and Jarndyce than anybody. He is famous for it—supposed never to have read anything else since he left school.
“姆鲁德，”坦格尔先生说。坦格尔先生比任何人都更了解加迪斯和加迪斯。他因此而闻名——自从他离开学校后，他就再也没有读过任何其他书了。

‘Have you nearly concluded your argument?’
“你的论点快结束了吗？”

‘Mlud, no—variety of points—feel it my duty tsubmit—ludship,’ is the reply that slides out of Mr. Tangle.
“Mlud，不——各种各样的观点——感觉这是我的职责tsubmit——ludship，”坦格尔先生的回答是这样的。

‘Several members of the bar are still to be heard, I believe?’ says the Chancellor with a slight smile.
“我相信，律师界的几位成员仍然有发言权，是吗？”财政大臣微笑着说道。

Eighteen of Mr. Tangle’s learned friends, each armed with a little summary of eighteen hundred sheets, bob up like eighteen hammers in a pianoforte, make eighteen bows, and drop into their eighteen places of obscurity.
坦格尔先生的十八个博学的朋友，每人都拿着一千八百页的小摘要，像钢琴上的十八个锤子一样上下摆动，拉十八个弓，然后落入十八个默默无闻的地方。

‘We will proceed with the hearing on Wednesday fortnight,’ says the Chancellor. For the question at issue is only a question of costs, a mere bud on the forest tree of the parent suit, and really will come to a settlement one of these days.
“我们将在两周周三继续举行听证会，”财政大臣说。因为所讨论的问题只是成本问题，只是母诉讼的森林树上的一芽，总有一天会真正达成解决方案。

The Chancellor rises; the bar rises; the prisoner is brought forward in a hurry; the man from Shropshire cries, ‘My lord!’ Maces, bags, and purses indignantly proclaim silence and frown at the man from Shropshire.
总理起立；酒吧上升；囚犯被匆匆带上前；来自什罗普郡的男人喊道：“我的大人！”狼牙棒、袋子和钱包愤怒地宣布安静，并对这个来自什罗普郡的男人皱着眉头。

‘In reference,’ proceeds the Chancellor, still on Jarndyce and Jarndyce, ‘to the young girl—‘
“作为参考，”财政大臣继续说道，仍然是关于加迪斯和加迪斯，“对那个年轻女孩来说——”

‘Begludship’s pardon—boy,’ says Mr. Tangle prematurely. ‘In reference,’ proceeds the Chancellor with extra distinctness, ‘to the young girl and boy, the two young people’—Mr. Tangle crushed— ‘whom I directed to be in attendance to-day and who are now in my private room, I will see them and satisfy myself as to the expediency of making the order for their residing with their uncle.’
“请原谅——孩子，”坦格尔先生过早地说。 “作为参考，”财政大臣特别明确地继续说道，“指的是年轻的女孩和男孩，这两个年轻人”——先生。坦格尔压垮了——“我今天指定要出席的人，现在在我的私人房间里，我会见到他们，并让自己满意地下令让他们和他们的叔叔住在一起。”

Mr. Tangle on his legs again. ‘Begludship’s pardon—dead.’
坦格尔先生再次站起来。 “贝格鲁德希普的赦免——死了。”

‘With their’—Chancellor looking through his double eyeglass at the papers on his desk—‘grandfather.’
“和他们的”——校长透过双层眼镜看着桌上的文件——“祖父。”

‘Begludship’s pardon—victim of rash action—brains.’
“Begludship 的赦免——鲁莽行为的受害者——大脑。”

Suddenly a very little counsel with a terrific bass voice arises, fully inflated, in the back settlements of the fog, and says, ‘Will your lordship allow me? I appear for him. He is a cousin, several times removed. I am not at the moment prepared to inform the court in what exact remove he is a cousin, but he IS a cousin.
突然，在雾气的深处，出现了一个声音极小的小律师，声音非常低音，充满了力量，说道：“大人可以允许我吗？”我为他出现。他是表弟，几度远亲。我目前不准备告知法庭他是表弟的确切身份，但他确实是表弟。

Leaving this address (delivered like a sepulchral message) ringing in the rafters of the roof, the very little counsel drops, and the fog knows him no more. Everybody looks for him. Nobody can see him.
留下这个地址（像一条阴森的信息一样传递）在屋顶的椽子上响起，很少的忠告消失了，雾气不再认识他了。每个人都在寻找他。没有人能看到他。

‘I will speak with both the young people,’ says the Chancellor anew, ‘and satisfy myself on the subject of their residing with their cousin. I will mention the matter to-morrow morning when I take my seat.’
“我会和两位年轻人谈谈，”大法官重新说道，“并就他们与表弟住在一起的问题让我满意。”明天早上我入座时我会提到这件事。

The Chancellor is about to bow to the bar when the prisoner is presented. Nothing can possibly come of the prisoner’s conglomeration but his being sent back to prison, which is soon done. The man from Shropshire ventures another remonstrative ‘My lord!’ but the Chancellor, being aware of him, has dexterously vanished. Everybody else quickly vanishes too. A battery of blue bags is loaded with heavy charges of papers and carried off by clerks; the little mad old woman marches off with her documents; the empty court is locked up. If all the injustice it has committed and all the misery it has caused could only be locked up with it, and the whole burnt away in a great funeral pyre—why so much the better for other parties than the parties in Jarndyce and Jarndyce!
当囚犯被带上法庭时，议长正要向律师鞠躬。除了将他送回监狱之外，囚犯的聚集不可能有任何结果，这很快就完成了。什罗普郡的那个人又冒昧地再次提出抗议：“大人！”但大臣发现了他，便巧妙地消失了。其他人也很快消失。一排蓝色的袋子里装满了厚重的文件，由职员运走。那个疯狂的小老太婆带着她的文件大步走开。空旷的庭院被锁起来。如果它所犯下的所有不公正和它所造成的所有痛苦都只能与它一起被关起来，然后在一个巨大的火葬柴堆中将其全部烧掉——为什么对其他政党来说比加迪斯和加迪斯的政党更好呢！

CHAPTER II
第二章


In Fashion
时尚

It is but a glimpse of the world of fashion that we want on this same miry afternoon. It is not so unlike the Court of Chancery but that we may pass from the one scene to the other, as the crow flies. Both the world of fashion and the Court of Chancery are things of precedent and usage: oversleeping Rip Van Winkles who have played at strange games through a deal of thundery weather; sleeping beauties whom the knight will wake one day, when all the stopped spits in the kitchen shall begin to turn prodigiously!
在这个阴暗的下午，我们想要的只是一睹时尚世界的风采。它与大法官法庭并没有什么不同，但我们可以从一个场景到另一个场景，就像直线飞行一样。时尚界和大法官法庭都是先例和惯例：睡过头的瑞普·范·温克尔斯 (Rip Van Winkles) 在雷雨天气中玩过奇怪的游戏；有一天，骑士将唤醒睡美人，届时厨房里所有停住的烤盘将开始惊人地转动！

It is not a large world. Relatively even to this world of ours, which has its limits too (as your Highness shall find when you have made the tour of it and are come to the brink of the void beyond), it is a very little speck. There is much good in it; there are many good and true people in it; it has its appointed place. But the evil of it is that it is a world wrapped up in too much jeweller’s cotton and fine wool, and cannot hear the rushing of the larger worlds, and cannot see them as they circle round the sun. It is a deadened world, and its growth is sometimes unhealthy for want of air.
这不是一个很大的世界。相对于我们的这个世界来说，它也有其局限性（当您游览完这个世界并来到虚空的边缘时，殿下将会发现），它也只是一个很小的斑点。其中有很多好处；里面有很多善良而真实的人；它有它指定的地方。但它的邪恶之处在于，这是一个被太多珠宝商的棉花和细羊毛包裹着的世界，听不到更大世界的奔腾声，也看不到它们绕着太阳旋转。这是一个死气沉沉的世界，它的生长有时会因为缺乏空气而变得不健康。

My Lady Dedlock has returned to her house in town for a few days previous to her departure for Paris, where her ladyship intends to stay some weeks, after which her movements are uncertain. The fashionable intelligence says so for the comfort of the Parisians, and it knows all fashionable things. To know things otherwise were to be unfashionable. My Lady Dedlock has been down at what she calls, in familiar conversation, her ‘place’ in Lincolnshire. The waters are out in Lincolnshire. An arch of the bridge in the park has been sapped and sopped away. The adjacent low-lying ground for half a mile in breadth is a stagnant river with melancholy trees for islands in it and a surface punctured all over, all day long, with falling rain. My Lady Dedlock’s place has been extremely dreary. The weather for many a day and night has been so wet that the trees seem wet through, and the soft loppings and prunings of the woodman’s axe can make no crash or crackle as they fall. The deer, looking soaked, leave quagmires where they pass. The shot of a rifle loses its sharpness in the moist air, and its smoke moves in a tardy little cloud towards the green rise, coppice-topped, that makes a background for the falling rain. The view from my Lady Dedlock’s own windows is alternately a lead-coloured view and a view in Indian ink. The vases on the stone terrace in the foreground catch the rain all day; and the heavy drops fall—drip, drip, drip—upon the broad flagged pavement, called from old time the Ghost’s Walk, all night. On Sundays the little church in the park is mouldy; the oaken pulpit breaks out into a cold sweat; and there is a general smell and taste as of the ancient Dedlocks in their graves. My Lady Dedlock (who is childless), looking out in the early twilight from her boudoir at a keeper’s lodge and seeing the light of a fire upon the latticed panes, and smoke rising from the chimney, and a child, chased by a woman, running out into the rain to meet the shining figure of a wrapped-up man coming through the gate, has been put quite out of temper. My Lady Dedlock says she has been ‘bored to death.’
戴德洛克夫人在启程前往巴黎之前已回到镇上的家中几天，她的夫人打算在那里停留几周，之后她的行动还不确定。时尚智慧是为了巴黎人的舒适而这么说的，它了解所有时尚事物。以其他方式了解事物是不合时宜的。戴德洛克夫人一直在她在熟悉的谈话中所说的林肯郡的“地方”。水域位于林肯郡。公园里的一座桥拱门已被侵蚀和浸湿。毗邻半里宽的低洼地，是一条死河，河中树木郁郁，成岛成群，地表千疮百孔，终日下雨。戴德洛克夫人的住处极其沉闷。许多个昼夜的天气都如此潮湿，树木看起来都湿透了，樵夫的斧头轻柔地砍伐和修剪，在树木倒下时不会发出任何撞击声或噼啪声。鹿看上去浑身湿透，经过的地方留下了泥潭。步枪的射击在潮湿的空气中失去了锐利，烟雾在迟缓的小云中移向绿色的高地，​​矮林顶部，为下雨提供了背景。从我的戴德洛克夫人自己的窗户看出去的景色时而是铅色的景色，时而是印度墨水色的景色。前景石阶上的花瓶整天都在吸收雨水；沉重的雨滴整夜落在宽阔的石板人行道上——滴、滴、滴——从古以来就被称为“幽灵步道”。周日公园里的小教堂发霉了；周日，公园里的小教堂发霉了。橡木讲坛上冒出了冷汗；那里有一种与古代戴洛克人在坟墓里一样的普遍气味和味道。 我的戴德洛克夫人（没有孩子），在暮色中从看守人小屋的闺房向外望去，看到格子窗上的火光，烟囱里升起烟雾，还有一个孩子被一个女人追赶，冒着雨跑出去，看到一个裹着衣服的男人从大门进来，闪闪发亮的身影，让他很生气。戴德洛克夫人说她“无聊得要死”。’

Therefore my Lady Dedlock has come away from the place in Lincolnshire and has left it to the rain, and the crows, and the rabbits, and the deer, and the partridges and pheasants. The pictures of the Dedlocks past and gone have seemed to vanish into the damp walls in mere lowness of spirits, as the housekeeper has passed along the old rooms shutting up the shutters. And when they will next come forth again, the fashionable intelligence—which, like the fiend, is omniscient of the past and present, but not the future—cannot yet undertake to say.
因此，我的戴德洛克夫人离开了林肯郡，把它留给了雨、乌鸦、兔子、鹿、鹧鸪和雉鸡。当管家走过关上百叶窗的旧房间时，戴德洛克夫妇的过去和现在的照片似乎只是情绪低落地消失在潮湿的墙壁中。当它们下次再次出现时，时髦的智慧——就像恶魔一样，无所不知过去和现在，但不知道未来——还不能说。

Sir Leicester Dedlock is only a baronet, but there is no mightier baronet than he. His family is as old as the hills, and infinitely more respectable. He has a general opinion that the world might get on without hills but would be done up without Dedlocks. He would on the whole admit nature to be a good idea (a little low, perhaps, when not enclosed with a park-fence), but an idea dependent for its execution on your great county families. He is a gentleman of strict conscience, disdainful of all littleness and meanness and ready on the shortest notice to die any death you may please to mention rather than give occasion for the least impeachment of his integrity. He is an honourable, obstinate, truthful, high-spirited, intensely prejudiced, perfectly unreasonable man.
莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士只是一名男爵，但没有比他更强大的男爵了。他的家族像山一样古老，而且更加受人尊敬。他有一个普遍的观点，即世界可以没有山丘而继续发展，但如果没有德洛克斯，世界就会崩溃。总的来说，他承认自然是一个好主意（也许有点低，当没有公园围栏围起来时），但这个想法的执行依赖于你们伟大的县家庭。他是一位有着严格良心的绅士，蔑视所有的渺小和卑鄙，并准备在最短的时间内接受你可能提到的任何死亡，而不是给他的正直带来哪怕一丁点的弹劾。他是一个正直、固执、诚实、斗志昂扬、偏见强烈、完全不讲道理的人。

Sir Leicester is twenty years, full measure, older than my Lady. He will never see sixty-five again, nor perhaps sixty-six, nor yet sixty-seven. He has a twist of the gout now and then and walks a little stiffly. He is of a worthy presence, with his light-grey hair and whiskers, his fine shirt-frill, his pure-white waistcoat, and his blue coat with bright buttons always buttoned. He is ceremonious, stately, most polite on every occasion to my Lady, and holds her personal attractions in the highest estimation. His gallantry to my Lady, which has never changed since he courted her, is the one little touch of romantic fancy in him.
莱斯特爵士足足二十岁，比夫人大。他再也见不到六十五岁了，也许六十六岁了，甚至还没有六十七岁。他时不时地患上痛风，走路都有些僵硬。他是一个值得尊敬的人，浅灰色的头发和胡须，精致的衬衫褶边，纯白色的马甲，还有总是扣着明亮纽扣的蓝色外套。他在任何场合都对我的女士彬彬有礼、庄重而有礼貌，并且高度评价她的个人魅力。他对我的夫人的殷勤，自从他向她求爱以来就从未改变过，这是他身上那一点点浪漫的幻想。

Indeed, he married her for love. A whisper still goes about that she had not even family; howbeit, Sir Leicester had so much family that perhaps he had enough and could dispense with any more. But she had beauty, pride, ambition, insolent resolve, and sense enough to portion out a legion of fine ladies. Wealth and station, added to these, soon floated her upward, and for years now my Lady Dedlock has been at the centre of the fashionable intelligence and at the top of the fashionable tree.
确实，他娶她是为了爱情。至今仍有传言说她甚至没有家人。然而，莱斯特爵士有这么多的家人，也许他已经足够了，可以放弃更多。但她拥有美丽、骄傲、野心、傲慢的决心和足够的理智，足以组成一大批优秀的女士。除此之外，财富和地位，很快使她的地位上升，多年来，我的戴德洛克夫人一直处于时尚智慧的中心，处于时尚之树的顶端。

How Alexander wept when he had no more worlds to conquer, everybody knows—or has some reason to know by this time, the matter having been rather frequently mentioned. My Lady Dedlock, having conquered HER world, fell not into the melting, but rather into the freezing, mood. An exhausted composure, a worn-out placidity, an equanimity of fatigue not to be ruffled by interest or satisfaction, are the trophies of her victory. She is perfectly well-bred. If she could be translated to heaven to-morrow, she might be expected to ascend without any rapture.
当亚历山大不再有更多的世界可以征服时，他是如何哭泣的，每个人都知道——或者说此时有理由知道，这件事已经被频繁提及。戴德洛克夫人征服了她的世界，但她的情绪并未融化，而是冰冷。一种精疲力尽的镇静，一种疲倦的平静，一种不为兴趣或满足所扰乱的疲劳的平静，是她胜利的战利品。她非常有教养。如果她明天就能升入天堂，那么她可能会毫无狂喜地升天。

She has beauty still, and if it be not in its heyday, it is not yet in its autumn. She has a fine face—originally of a character that would be rather called very pretty than handsome, but improved into classicality by the acquired expression of her fashionable state. Her figure is elegant and has the effect of being tall. Not that she is so, but that ‘the most is made,’ as the Honourable Bob Stables has frequently asserted upon oath, ‘of all her points.’ The same authority observes that she is perfectly got up and remarks in commendation of her hair especially that she is the best-groomed woman in the whole stud.
她的美貌依然存在，若非全盛时期，也未到秋天。她有一张漂亮的脸——本来应该说是非常漂亮而不是英俊，但由于后天的时尚状态的表达而变得古典。她的身材优雅，有种高挑的效果。并不是说她确实如此，而是正如鲍勃·斯泰布尔斯阁下在宣誓时经常宣称的那样，“她的所有观点都得到了最充分的体现。”同一位权威人士观察到，她完全站了起来，并发表了对她头发的赞扬。尤其是她是整个种马中打扮得最好的女人。

With all her perfections on her head, my Lady Dedlock has come up from her place in Lincolnshire (hotly pursued by the fashionable intelligence) to pass a few days at her house in town previous to her departure for Paris, where her ladyship intends to stay some weeks, after which her movements are uncertain. And at her house in town, upon this muddy, murky afternoon, presents himself an oldfashioned old gentleman, attorney-at-law and eke solicitor of the High Court of Chancery, who has the honour of acting as legal adviser of the Dedlocks and has as many cast-iron boxes in his office with that name outside as if the present baronet were the coin of the conjuror’s trick and were constantly being juggled through the whole set. Across the hall, and up the stairs, and along the passages, and through the rooms, which are very brilliant in the season and very dismal out of it—fairy-land to visit, but a desert to live in—the old gentleman is conducted by a Mercury in powder to my Lady’s presence.
戴德洛克夫人带着她所有的完美，从她在林肯郡的住所（受到时尚知识分子的热烈追捧）来到她城里的家里，在她动身去巴黎之前，她的夫人打算住在那里几周后，她的行动就变得不确定了。在这个泥泞、阴沉的下午，在她镇上的家里，出现了一位老式的老绅士，他是衡平法院高等法院的律师和律师，他有幸担任戴洛克夫妇的法律顾问，并他的办公室里有很多铸铁盒子，外面都写着这个名字，就好像现在的男爵是魔术师戏法的硬币，不断地在整个装置中被耍弄。穿过大厅，登上楼梯，沿着过道，穿过房间，这些房间在季节里非常灿烂，但在外面却非常阴暗——参观的仙境，居住的沙漠——老先生是由水星粉末引导到我的女士面前。

The old gentleman is rusty to look at, but is reputed to have made good thrift out of aristocratic marriage settlements and aristocratic wills, and to be very rich. He is surrounded by a mysterious halo of family confidences, of which he is known to be the silent depository. There are noble mausoleums rooted for centuries in retired glades of parks among the growing timber and the fern, which perhaps hold fewer noble secrets than walk abroad among men, shut up in the breast of Mr. Tulkinghorn. He is of what is called the old school—a phrase generally meaning any school that seems never to have been young—and wears knee-breeches tied with ribbons, and gaiters or stockings. One peculiarity of his black clothes and of his black stockings, be they silk or worsted, is that they never shine. Mute, close, irresponsive to any glancing light, his dress is like himself. He never converses when not professionaly consulted. He is found sometimes, speechless but quite at home, at corners of dinner-tables in great country houses and near doors of drawing-rooms, concerning which the fashionable intelligence is eloquent, where everybody knows him and where half the Peerage stops to say ‘How do you do, Mr. Tulkinghorn?’ He receives these salutations with gravity and buries them along with the rest of his knowledge.
这位老先生看上去很破旧，但据说他在贵族婚姻协议和贵族遗嘱中勤俭节约，而且非常富有。他周围环绕着家族秘密的神秘光环，众所周知，他是家族秘密的沉默保管者。一些高贵的陵墓在公园的荒凉空地上扎根了几个世纪，周围是不断生长的木材和蕨类植物，这些陵墓所蕴含的高贵秘密可能比在图尔金霍恩先生胸中的人们中行走的要少。他属于所谓的“老派”——这个词通常指任何似乎从未年轻过的学校——穿着用丝带系着的及膝马裤、绑腿或长筒袜。他的黑色衣服和黑色长袜的一个特点是，无论它们是丝绸的还是精纺的，它们都不会发光。他沉默、亲密，对任何瞥见的光线都没有反应，他的衣服就像他自己一样。在没有得到专业咨询的情况下，他从不交谈。有时，人们会发现他沉默寡言，但却很自在，出现在乡村大宅的餐桌角落和客厅门附近，时尚界的才智对此滔滔不绝，人人都认识他，一半的贵族都停下来说：“你好，图金霍恩先生？”他严肃地接受了这些问候​​，并将它们与他的其他知识一起埋葬了。

Sir Leicester Dedlock is with my Lady and is happy to see Mr. Tulkinghorn. There is an air of prescription about him which is always agreeable to Sir Leicester; he receives it as a kind of tribute. He likes Mr. Tulkinghorn’s dress; there is a kind of tribute in that too. It is eminently respectable, and likewise, in a general way, retainer-like. It expresses, as it were, the steward of the legal mysteries, the butler of the legal cellar, of the Dedlocks.
莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士和夫人在一起，很高兴见到图尔金霍恩先生。他身上有一种处方的气质，莱斯特爵士总是很喜欢他。他接受它作为一种贡品。他喜欢图金霍恩先生的衣服；这也有一种致敬。它是非常受人尊敬的，同样，在一般意义上，它类似于家臣。可以说，它代表了戴德洛克家族的法律秘密的管家、法律地窖的管家。

Has Mr. Tulkinghorn any idea of this himself? It may be so, or it may not, but there is this remarkable circumstance to be noted in everything associated with my Lady Dedlock as one of a class—as one of the leaders and representatives of her little world. She supposes herself to be an inscrutable Being, quite out of the reach and ken of ordinary mortals—seeing herself in her glass, where indeed she looks so. Yet every dim little star revolving about her, from her maid to the manager of the Italian Opera, knows her weaknesses, prejudices, follies, haughtinesses, and caprices and lives upon as accurate a calculation and as nice a measure of her moral nature as her dressmaker takes of her physical proportions. Is a new dress, a new custom, a new singer, a new dancer, a new form of jewellery, a new dwarf or giant, a new chapel, a new anything, to be set up? There are deferential people in a dozen callings whom my Lady Dedlock suspects of nothing but prostration before her, who can tell you how to manage her as if she were a baby, who do nothing but nurse her all their lives, who, humbly affecting to follow with profound subservience, lead her and her whole troop after them; who, in hooking one, hook all and bear them off as Lemuel Gulliver bore away the stately fleet of the majestic Lilliput. ‘If you want to address our people, sir,’ say Blaze and Sparkle, the jewellers—meaning by our people Lady Dedlock and the rest—‘you must remember that you are not dealing with the general public; you must hit our people in their weakest place, and their weakest place is such a place.’ ‘To make this article go down, gentlemen,’ say Sheen and Gloss, the mercers, to their friends the manufacturers, ‘you must come to us, because we know where to have the fashionable people, and we can make it fashionable.’ ‘If you want to get this print upon the tables of my high connexion, sir,’ says Mr. Sladdery, the librarian, ‘or if you want to get this dwarf or giant into the houses of my high connexion, sir, or if you want to secure to this entertainment the patronage of my high connexion, sir, you must leave it, if you please, to me, for I have been accustomed to study the leaders of my high connexion, sir, and I may tell you without vanity that I can turn them round my finger’— in which Mr. Sladdery, who is an honest man, does not exaggerate at all.
图金霍恩先生本人对此有任何想法吗？可能是这样，也可能不是，但在与我的戴德洛克夫人作为一个阶层的一员——作为她的小世界的领导者和代表之一有关的一切事物中，有一个值得注意的情况。她认为自己是一个深不可测的存在，完全超出了普通凡人的能力范围和视野——在镜子中看到自己，事实上她看起来确实如此。然而，围绕着她的每一个暗淡的小明星，从她的女仆到意大利歌剧院的经理，都知道她的弱点、偏见、愚蠢、傲慢和任性，并像她一样对她的道德本性有准确的计算和良好的衡量。裁缝师根据她的身体比例。是否要设立新的服装、新的习俗、新的歌手、新的舞者、新的珠宝、新的矮人或巨人、新的教堂、新的东西？有十几个职业的恭顺之人，我的戴德洛克夫人只怀疑他们在她面前跪倒，他们可以告诉你如何像对待婴儿一样管理她，他们除了一生照顾她之外什么也不做，他们谦虚地装作带着深深的服从，带领她和她的整个队伍追随他们；他在钩住一只的同时，也钩住了所有的敌人，并把它们带走，就像雷米尔·格列佛带走了威严的小人国的庄严舰队一样。 “如果您想向我们的人民讲话，先生，”珠宝商布莱兹和斯帕克尔（指的是我们的人民戴德洛克夫人和其他人）说道，“您必须记住，您不是在与公众打交道；而是在与公众打交道。”你一定要打我们人民最薄弱的地方，他们最薄弱的地方就是这样一个地方。” “为了让这篇文章流传下来，先生们，”商人希恩和格罗斯对他们的制造商朋友说，“你们必须来找我们，因为我们知道哪里有时尚人士，而且我们可以让它变得时尚。 ” “如果您想把这个印刷品放在我的高级亲戚的桌子上，先生，”图书管理员斯拉德利先生说，“或者如果您想让这个侏儒或巨人进入我的高级亲戚的房子，先生，或者如果您想获得我的高层关系的赞助，先生，您必须把它留给我，因为我已经习惯于研究我的高层关系的领导人，先生，我可以告诉你没有虚荣心，我可以用手指转动它们”——斯拉德利先生是一个诚实的人，他在这句话中一点也不夸张。

Therefore, while Mr. Tulkinghorn may not know what is passing in the Dedlock mind at present, it is very possible that he may.
因此，虽然图金霍恩先生可能不知道戴德洛克脑子里目前在想什么，但他很有可能知道。

‘My Lady’s cause has been again before the Chancellor, has it, Mr. Tulkinghorn?’ says Sir Leicester, giving him his hand.
“夫人的事业再次提交给了财政大臣，是吗，图金霍恩先生？”莱斯特爵士一边说，一边向他伸出了手。

‘Yes. It has been on again to-day,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn replies, making one of his quiet bows to my Lady, who is on a sofa near the fire, shading her face with a hand-screen.
'是的。今天又开始了。”图尔金霍恩先生回答道，同时向我的夫人轻轻鞠了一躬，她正坐在靠近火炉的沙发上，用手遮着脸。

‘It would be useless to ask,’ says my Lady with the dreariness of the place in Lincolnshire still upon her, ‘whether anything has been done.’
“问是否采取了任何行动，”夫人说道，林肯郡的气氛依然阴郁，“问是否采取了任何行动是没有用的。”

‘Nothing that YOU would call anything has been done to-day,’ replies Mr. Tulkinghorn.
“今天什么也没做，”图尔金霍恩先生回答道。

‘Nor ever will be,’ says my Lady.
“永远不会，”夫人说。

Sir Leicester has no objection to an interminable Chancery suit. It is a slow, expensive, British, constitutional kind of thing. To be sure, he has not a vital interest in the suit in question, her part in which was the only property my Lady brought him; and he has a shadowy impression that for his name—the name of Dedlock—to be in a cause, and not in the title of that cause, is a most ridiculous accident. But he regards the Court of Chancery, even if it should involve an occasional delay of justice and a trifling amount of confusion, as a something devised in conjunction with a variety of other somethings by the perfection of human wisdom for the eternal settlement (humanly speaking) of everything. And he is upon the whole of a fixed opinion that to give the sanction of his countenance to any complaints respecting it would be to encourage some person in the lower classes to rise up somewhere—like Wat Tyler.
莱斯特爵士并不反对无休止的大法官诉讼。这是一种缓慢、昂贵、符合英国宪法的事情。可以肯定的是，他对这件诉讼并没有切身利益，她在其中所扮演的角色是我的夫人带给他的唯一财产；他有一种模糊的印象，他的名字——戴德洛克的名字——出现在一项事业中，而不是出现在该事业的标题中，这是一个最可笑的意外。但他认为大法官法庭，即使它偶尔会导致正义的延迟和一点点混乱，也被视为人类智慧的完美结合其他各种事物而设计出来的东西，以实现永恒的解决（从人的角度来说） ） 一切。总的来说，他有一个固定的观点，即对任何有关这一点的抱怨给予他的支持，就会鼓励下层阶级的某些人在某个地方崛起——比如瓦特·泰勒。

‘As a few fresh affidavits have been put upon the file,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, ‘and as they are short, and as I proceed upon the troublesome principle of begging leave to possess my clients with any new proceedings in a cause’—cautious man Mr. Tulkinghorn, taking no more responsibility than necessary—‘and further, as I see you are going to Paris, I have brought them in my pocket.’
“一些新的宣誓书已被归档，”图尔金霍恩先生说，“而且它们很短，而且我继续遵循麻烦的原则，请求允许我的客户处理任何新的诉讼程序”——谨慎的图尔金霍恩先生，除了必要之外，不会承担更多的责任——“而且，我看到你要去巴黎，所以我把它们放在口袋里了。”

(Sir Leicester was going to Paris too, by the by, but the delight of the fashionable intelligence was in his Lady.)
（顺便说一句，莱斯特爵士也要去巴黎，但时尚智慧的乐趣在于他的夫人。）

Mr. Tulkinghorn takes out his papers, asks permission to place them on a golden talisman of a table at my Lady’s elbow, puts on his spectacles, and begins to read by the light of a shaded lamp.
图金霍恩先生拿出他的文件，请求允许将它们放在我夫人肘部桌子上的金色护身符上，戴上眼镜，开始在灯罩的灯光下阅读。

‘‘In Chancery. Between John Jarndyce—‘’
” “在大法官府。约翰·詹迪斯之间——“”

My Lady interrupts, requesting him to miss as many of the formal horrors as he can.
夫人打断了他的话，要求他尽可能多地错过那些正式的恐怖事件。

Mr. Tulkinghorn glances over his spectacles and begins again lower down. My Lady carelessly and scornfully abstracts her attention. Sir Leicester in a great chair looks at the file and appears to have a stately liking for the legal repetitions and prolixities as ranging among the national bulwarks. It happens that the fire is hot where my Lady sits and that the hand-screen is more beautiful than useful, being priceless but small. My Lady, changing her position, sees the papers on the table—looks at them nearer—looks at them nearer still—asks impulsively, ‘Who copied that?’
图金霍恩先生看了一眼眼镜，又开始往下看。夫人漫不经心、轻蔑地转移了她的注意力。莱斯特爵士坐在一张大椅子上看着文件，似乎对国家壁垒中的法律重复和冗长有着浓厚的兴趣。恰巧夫人坐的地方火很热，而手屏却美而不实用，无价却又小。夫人，换了个姿势，看到了桌上的文件——凑近了看——又凑近了——冲动地问道：“是谁抄的？”

Mr. Tulkinghorn stops short, surprised by my Lady’s animation and her unusual tone.
图金霍恩先生突然停了下来，对夫人的活力和不寻常的语气感到惊讶。

‘Is it what you people call law-hand?’ she asks, looking full at him in her careless way again and toying with her screen.
“这就是你们所说的律师吗？”她问道，再次以漫不经心的方式注视着他，摆弄着屏幕。

‘Not quite. Probably’—Mr. Tulkinghorn examines it as he speaks— ‘the legal character which it has was acquired after the original hand was formed. Why do you ask?’
'不完全的。也许’——先生。图金霍恩边说边检查它——“它所具有的法律特征是在原手形成后获得的。”你为什么要问？'

‘Anything to vary this detestable monotony. Oh, go on, do!’
“任何可以改变这种令人厌恶的单调的事情。哦，继续，做！

Mr. Tulkinghorn reads again. The heat is greater; my Lady screens her face. Sir Leicester dozes, starts up suddenly, and cries, ‘Eh? What do you say?’
图金霍恩先生再次朗读。热量较大；我的夫人遮住了她的脸。莱斯特爵士打瞌睡，突然惊醒，喊道：“呃？”你怎么说？'

‘I say I am afraid,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, who had risen hastily, ‘that Lady Dedlock is ill.’
“我说我担心，”图尔金霍恩先生匆匆站起来，“戴德洛克夫人病了。”

‘Faint,’ my Lady murmurs with white lips, ‘only that; but it is like the faintness of death. Don’t speak to me. Ring, and take me to my room!’
“晕，”夫人嘴唇发白，低声说道，“仅此而已；但这就像死亡的虚弱。别跟我说话。打电话，带我去我的房间！”

Mr. Tulkinghorn retires into another chamber; bells ring, feet shuffle and patter, silence ensues. Mercury at last begs Mr. Tulkinghorn to return.
图金霍恩先生退到了另一个房间。钟声响起，脚步拖拖沓沓，一片寂静。水星终于恳求图金霍恩先生回来。

‘Better now,’ quoth Sir Leicester, motioning the lawyer to sit down and read to him alone. ‘I have been quite alarmed. I never knew my Lady swoon before. But the weather is extremely trying, and she really has been bored to death down at our place in Lincolnshire.’
“现在好多了，”莱斯特爵士说道，示意律师坐下来单独读给他听。 “我非常惊慌。我以前从来不知道我的女士会晕倒。但天气极其恶劣，她在我们林肯郡的住处真的无聊得要死。”

CHAPTER III
第三章


A Progress
一个进步

I have a great deal of difficulty in beginning to write my portion of these pages, for I know I am not clever. I always knew that. I can remember, when I was a very little girl indeed, I used to say to my doll when we were alone together, ‘Now, Dolly, I am not clever, you know very well, and you must be patient with me, like a dear!’ And so she used to sit propped up in a great arm-chair, with her beautiful complexion and rosy lips, staring at me—or not so much at me, I think, as at nothing—while I busily stitched away and told her every one of my secrets.
我在开始写这几页中我的部分时遇到了很大的困难，因为我知道我并不聪明。我一直都知道这一点。我记得，当我还是个小女孩的时候，当我们单独在一起时，我常常对我的娃娃说，‘现在，多莉，我不聪明，你很清楚，你必须对我有耐心，就像亲爱的！”所以她常常坐在一张大扶手椅上，美丽的肤色和红润的嘴唇，盯着我——或者我想，与其说是在看我，不如说是在看什么——而我则忙着缝针。并告诉她我的每一个秘密。

My dear old doll! I was such a shy little thing that I seldom dared to open my lips, and never dared to open my heart, to anybody else. It almost makes me cry to think what a relief it used to be to me when I came home from school of a day to run upstairs to my room and say, ‘Oh, you dear faithful Dolly, I knew you would be expecting me!’ and then to sit down on the floor, leaning on the elbow of her great chair, and tell her all I had noticed since we parted. I had always rather a noticing way—not a quick way, oh, no!—a silent way of noticing what passed before me and thinking I should like to understand it better. I have not by any means a quick understanding. When I love a person very tenderly indeed, it seems to brighten. But even that may be my vanity.
我亲爱的老娃娃！我是个害羞的小东西，很少敢向别人开口，更不敢向别人敞开心扉。当我有一天放学回家，跑上楼到我的房间说：‘哦，你亲爱的忠实的多莉，我就知道你会在等我！ ’然后坐在地板上，靠在她大椅子的扶手上，告诉她自从我们分手以来我所注意到的一切。我总是有一种注意的方式——不是一种快速的方式，哦，不！——一种安静的方式来注意我面前发生的事情，并认为我应该更好地理解它。我无论如何都无法快速理解。当我真的非常温柔地爱一个人时，它似乎变得明亮起来。但即便如此也可能是我的虚荣心。

I was brought up, from my earliest remembrance—like some of the princesses in the fairy stories, only I was not charming—by my godmother. At least, I only knew her as such. She was a good, good woman! She went to church three times every Sunday, and to morning prayers on Wednesdays and Fridays, and to lectures whenever there were lectures; and never missed. She was handsome; and if she had ever smiled, would have been (I used to think) like an angel—but she never smiled. She was always grave and strict. She was so very good herself, I thought, that the badness of other people made her frown all her life. I felt so different from her, even making every allowance for the differences between a child and a woman; I felt so poor, so trifling, and so far off that I never could be unrestrained with her—no, could never even love her as I wished. It made me very sorry to consider how good she was and how unworthy of her I was, and I used ardently to hope that I might have a better heart; and I talked it over very often with the dear old doll, but I never loved my godmother as I ought to have loved her and as I felt I must have loved her if I had been a better girl.
从我最早的记忆起，我就是由教母带大的——就像童话故事中的一些公主一样，只是我并不迷人。至少，我只认识她这样。她是一个很好很好的女人！她每周日去三次教堂，周三和周五去晨祷，一有讲座就去听课。并且从未错过。她很英俊；如果她曾经微笑过，就会（我曾经认为）像天使一样——但她从不笑。她总是严肃而严厉。我想，她自己太好了，别人的坏事让她皱起了眉头。我感觉自己和她很不一样，甚至充分考虑到孩子和女人之间的差异。我觉得自己是那么的可怜，那么的渺小，那么的疏远，以至于我永远无法对她无拘无束——不，甚至永远无法如我所愿地爱她。想到她是多么的好，而我是多么配不上她，我感到非常遗憾，我曾经热切地希望自己能有一颗更好的心；我经常和亲爱的老洋娃娃谈论这件事，但我从来没有爱过我的教母，因为我应该爱她，因为我觉得如果我是一个更好的女孩，我一定会爱她。

This made me, I dare say, more timid and retiring than I naturally was and cast me upon Dolly as the only friend with whom I felt at ease. But something happened when I was still quite a little thing that helped it very much.
我敢说，这让我比平时更加​​胆怯和孤僻，并让我相信多莉是唯一让我感到轻松的朋友。但当我还是个小东西的时候发生了一件事情，这对它很有帮助。

I had never heard my mama spoken of. I had never heard of my papa either, but I felt more interested about my mama. I had never worn a black frock, that I could recollect. I had never been shown my mama’s grave. I had never been told where it was. Yet I had never been taught to pray for any relation but my godmother. I had more than once approached this subject of my thoughts with Mrs. Rachael, our only servant, who took my light away when I was in bed (another very good woman, but austere to me), and she had only said, ‘Esther, good night!’ and gone away and left me.
我从来没有听人提起过我的妈妈。我也从未听说过我的爸爸，但我对我的妈妈更感兴趣。据我记忆，我从未穿过黑色连衣裙。我从来没有见过我妈妈的坟墓。我从来没有被告知它在哪里。然而，除了我的教母之外，我从未被教导要为任何亲戚祈祷。我不止一次地与我们唯一的仆人雷切尔夫人讨论过这个问题，当我躺在床上时，她把我的灯拿走了（另一个非常好的女人，但对我来说很严肃），她只说了，“以斯帖” ，晚安！”然后就离开了我。

Although there were seven girls at the neighbouring school where I was a day boarder, and although they called me little Esther Summerson, I knew none of them at home. All of them were older than I, to be sure (I was the youngest there by a good deal), but there seemed to be some other separation between us besides that, and besides their being far more clever than I was and knowing much more than I did. One of them in the first week of my going to the school (I remember it very well) invited me home to a little party, to my great joy. But my godmother wrote a stiff letter declining for me, and I never went. I never went out at all.
尽管我是走读寄宿生的邻近学校有七个女孩，尽管她们叫我小艾丝特·萨默森，但我在家里却不认识她们。当然，他们所有人都比我年长（我是那里最年轻的一个），但除此之外，我们之间似乎还有一些其他的区别，而且他们比我聪明得多，懂得也多得多。比我做的。在我上学的第一周（我记得很清楚），他们中的一个邀请我回家参加一个小型聚会，这让我非常高兴。但我的教母写了一封生硬的信拒绝了我，我从未去。我根本就没出去过。

It was my birthday. There were holidays at school on other birthdays—none on mine. There were rejoicings at home on other birthdays, as I knew from what I heard the girls relate to one another—there were none on mine. My birthday was the most melancholy day at home in the whole year.
那天是我的生日。其他生日那天学校也放假——我的生日却没有。其他生日的时候家里都会充满欢乐，从我听到的女孩们之间的关系中我知道——我的生日却没有。我的生日是这一年来家里最忧郁的一天。

I have mentioned that unless my vanity should deceive me (as I know it may, for I may be very vain without suspecting it, though indeed I don’t), my comprehension is quickened when my affection is. My disposition is very affectionate, and perhaps I might still feel such a wound if such a wound could be received more than once with the quickness of that birthday.
我已经提到过，除非我的虚荣心欺骗了我（我知道它可能会欺骗我，因为我可能非常虚荣而不怀疑它，尽管我确实不怀疑），当我的感情欺骗了我时，我的理解力就会加快。我的性情很重感情，如果能以那个生日的速度，不止一次地受到这样的伤害，也许我仍然会感受到这样的伤害。

Dinner was over, and my godmother and I were sitting at the table before the fire. The clock ticked, the fire clicked; not another sound had been heard in the room or in the house for I don’t know how long. I happened to look timidly up from my stitching, across the table at my godmother, and I saw in her face, looking gloomily at me, ‘It would have been far better, little Esther, that you had had no birthday, that you had never been born!’
晚饭结束了，我和教母坐在火炉前的桌子旁。时钟滴答作响，火苗噼啪作响；不知道过了多久，房间里或房子里都没有再听到任何声音。我碰巧从针线活中怯怯地抬起头，越过桌子看着我的教母，我从她的脸上看到，她阴沉地看着我，“小埃丝特，如果你没有过生日，那就更好了。”从未出生过！

I broke out crying and sobbing, and I said, ‘Oh, dear godmother, tell me, pray do tell me, did Mama die on my birthday?’
我突然哭了起来，我说：“哦，亲爱的教母，请告诉我，请告诉我，妈妈在我生日那天去世了吗？”

‘No,’ she returned. ‘Ask me no more, child!’
“不，”她回答道。 “别再问我了，孩子！”

‘Oh, do pray tell me something of her. Do now, at last, dear godmother, if you please! What did I do to her? How did I lose her? Why am I so different from other children, and why is it my fault, dear godmother? No, no, no, don’t go away. Oh, speak to me!’
“哦，请告诉我一些关于她的事情。现在，最后，亲爱的教母，如果你愿意的话！我对她做了什么？我怎么失去了她？为什么我和其他孩子如此不同，为什么这是我的错，亲爱的教母？不，不，不，别走开。哦，跟我说话！

I was in a kind of fright beyond my grief, and I caught hold of her dress and was kneeling to her. She had been saying all the while, ‘Let me go!’ But now she stood still.
我感到一种超越悲痛的恐惧，我抓住她的衣服，向她跪下。她一直在说：“放开我！”但现在她站着不动了。

Her darkened face had such power over me that it stopped me in the midst of my vehemence. I put up my trembling little hand to clasp hers or to beg her pardon with what earnestness I might, but withdrew it as she looked at me, and laid it on my fluttering heart. She raised me, sat in her chair, and standing me before her, said slowly in a cold, low voice—I see her knitted brow and pointed finger—‘Your mother, Esther, is your disgrace, and you were hers. The time will come—and soon enough—when you will understand this better and will feel it too, as no one save a woman can. I have forgiven her’—but her face did not relent—‘the wrong she did to me, and I say no more of it, though it was greater than you will ever know—than any one will ever know but I, the sufferer. For yourself, unfortunate girl, orphaned and degraded from the first of these evil anniversaries, pray daily that the sins of others be not visited upon your head, according to what is written. Forget your mother and leave all other people to forget her who will do her unhappy child that greatest kindness. Now, go!’
她那张黝黑的脸对我有如此大的力量，使我在激烈的情绪中停了下来。我伸出颤抖的小手，想紧紧握住她的手，或者尽我所能地恳求她原谅，但当她看着我时，我又把手缩了回来，放在了我颤动的心上。她把我扶起来，坐在椅子上，把我站在她面前，用冰冷、低沉的声音慢慢地说——我看到她皱着眉头，用手指指着——“你的母亲，埃丝特，是你的耻辱，而你是她的耻辱。”总有一天——而且很快——你会更好地理解这一点，也会感受到这一点，除了女人之外，没有人能做到这一点。我已经原谅了她”——但她的表情并没有缓和——“她对我所做的错事，我不再多说，尽管它比你所知道的更伟大——比除了我这个受难者之外的任何人都知道的更伟大” 。对于你自己来说，不幸的女孩，从这些邪恶的周年纪念日的第一个开始就成为孤儿和堕落的人，请每天祈祷，以免别人的罪孽按照所写的那样降临到你的头上。忘记你的母亲，让所有其他人忘记她，她会给她不幸的孩子最大的仁慈。现在，走吧！'

She checked me, however, as I was about to depart from her—so frozen as I was!—and added this, ‘Submission, self-denial, diligent work, are the preparations for a life begun with such a shadow on it. You are different from other children, Esther, because you were not born, like them, in common sinfulness and wrath. You are set apart.’
然而，当我正要离开她时，她阻止了我——尽管我浑身僵硬！——并补充道：“顺从、克己、勤奋工作，是为开始带着这样的阴影的生活做的准备。”以斯帖，你与其他孩子不同，因为你不像他们一样生来就有罪孽和愤怒。你被分开了。

I went up to my room, and crept to bed, and laid my doll’s cheek against mine wet with tears, and holding that solitary friend upon my bosom, cried myself to sleep. Imperfect as my understanding of my sorrow was, I knew that I had brought no joy at any time to anybody’s heart and that I was to no one upon earth what Dolly was to me.
我回到自己的房间，蹑手蹑脚地爬到床上，把布娃娃的脸颊贴在泪流满面的脸颊上，把那个孤独的朋友抱在怀里，哭着睡着了。尽管我对自己的悲伤的理解并不完美，但我知道我在任何时候都没有给任何人的心灵带来欢乐，而且我对地球上任何人来说都不像多莉对我一样。

Dear, dear, to think how much time we passed alone together afterwards, and how often I repeated to the doll the story of my birthday and confided to her that I would try as hard as ever I could to repair the fault I had been born with (of which I confessedly felt guilty and yet innocent) and would strive as I grew up to be industrious, contented, and kind-hearted and to do some good to some one, and win some love to myself if I could. I hope it is not self-indulgent to shed these tears as I think of it. I am very thankful, I am very cheerful, but I cannot quite help their coming to my eyes.
亲爱的，亲爱的，想一想我们后来单独在一起度过了多少时间，我有多少次对娃娃重复我生日的故事，并向她倾诉我会尽我所能去弥补我与生俱来的缺陷。 （我承认对此感到内疚，但又无辜），并会在成长过程中努力成为一个勤劳、知足、善良的人，为某人做一些好事，如果可以的话，为自己赢得一些爱。我希望在我想到这些的时候流下这些眼泪并不是自我放纵。我很感激，我很高兴，但我无法控制他们出现在我的眼前。

There! I have wiped them away now and can go on again properly.
那里！我现在已经把它们擦掉了，可以继续正常进行了。

I felt the distance between my godmother and myself so much more after the birthday, and felt so sensible of filling a place in her house which ought to have been empty, that I found her more difficult of approach, though I was fervently grateful to her in my heart, than ever. I felt in the same way towards my school companions; I felt in the same way towards Mrs. Rachael, who was a widow; and oh, towards her daughter, of whom she was proud, who came to see her once a fortnight! I was very retired and quiet, and tried to be very diligent.
生日过后，我觉得我和教母之间的距离更远了，我觉得很明智地在她家里填补了一个本应空着的地方，我发现她更难接近了，尽管我非常感谢她在我心里，比以往任何时候。我对学校的同学也有同样的感觉。我对寡妇雷切尔夫人也有同样的感觉。哦，还有她的女儿，她为她感到骄傲，她每两周来看她一次！我非常退休和安静，并努力变得非常勤奋。

One sunny afternoon when I had come home from school with my books and portfolio, watching my long shadow at my side, and as I was gliding upstairs to my room as usual, my godmother looked out of the parlour-door and called me back. Sitting with her, I found— which was very unusual indeed—a stranger. A portly, importantlooking gentleman, dressed all in black, with a white cravat, large gold watch seals, a pair of gold eye-glasses, and a large seal-ring upon his little finger.
一个阳光明媚的下午，我带着书本和档案袋放学回家，看着自己长长的影子在身边，当我像往常一样滑上楼回到自己的房间时，教母从客厅门往外看，把我叫了回来。和她坐在一起，我发现——这确实很不寻常——一个陌生人。一位身材魁梧、看上去举足轻重的绅士，一身黑衣，系着白色领带，手表上戴着大金表印章，戴着一副金眼镜，小指上戴着一枚大印章戒指。

‘This,’ said my godmother in an undertone, ‘is the child.’ Then she said in her naturally stern way of speaking, ‘This is Esther, sir.’
“这，”我的教母低声说道，“就是那个孩子。”然后她用她自然严肃的语气说道，“这是埃丝特，先生。”

The gentleman put up his eye-glasses to look at me and said, ‘Come here, my dear!’ He shook hands with me and asked me to take off my bonnet, looking at me all the while. When I had complied, he said, ‘Ah!’ and afterwards ‘Yes!’ And then, taking off his eye-glasses and folding them in a red case, and leaning back in his arm-chair, turning the case about in his two hands, he gave my godmother a nod. Upon that, my godmother said, ‘You may go upstairs, Esther!’ And I made him my curtsy and left him.
那位绅士抬起眼镜看着我，说道：“亲爱的，过来！”他与我握手，并让我摘下帽子，同时一直看着我。当我答应后，他说，“啊！”然后“是的！”然后，摘下眼镜，把它们折叠在一个红色的盒子里，靠在扶手椅上，在他的椅子上转动盒子。他伸出两只手，向我的教母点了点头。这时，我的教母说：“你可以上楼了，埃丝特！”我向他行了屈膝礼，然后离开了他。

It must have been two years afterwards, and I was almost fourteen, when one dreadful night my godmother and I sat at the fireside. I was reading aloud, and she was listening. I had come down at nine o’clock as I always did to read the Bible to her, and was reading from St. John how our Saviour stooped down, writing with his finger in the dust, when they brought the sinful woman to him.
大概是两年后的事了，我快十四岁了，在一个可怕的夜晚，我和教母坐在炉边。我在大声朗读，她在听。我像往常一样在九点钟下来给她读《圣经》，读的是圣约翰的书，当他们把那个有罪的女人带到他面前时，我们的救世主如何弯下腰，用手指在灰尘上写字。

‘‘So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her!’’
“当他们继续问他的时候，他就站起来对他们说，你们中间谁是没有罪的，谁就可以先拿石头打她！”

I was stopped by my godmother’s rising, putting her hand to her head, and crying out in an awful voice from quite another part of the book, ‘‘Watch ye, therefore, lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what I say unto you, I say unto all, Watch!’’
我被教母站了起来，用手捂着头，从书的另一部分用可怕的声音喊道：“所以，你们要小心，免得他突然来发现你睡着了。”我对你们说的话，也是对所有人说的，注意！”

In an instant, while she stood before me repeating these words, she fell down on the floor. I had no need to cry out; her voice had sounded through the house and been heard in the street.
就在她站在我面前重复这些话的瞬间，她倒在了地板上。我没有必要哭泣；她的声音响彻整个房子，街上也能听到。

She was laid upon her bed. For more than a week she lay there, little altered outwardly, with her old handsome resolute frown that I so well knew carved upon her face. Many and many a time, in the day and in the night, with my head upon the pillow by her that my whispers might be plainer to her, I kissed her, thanked her, prayed for her, asked her for her blessing and forgiveness, entreated her to give me the least sign that she knew or heard me. No, no, no. Her face was immovable. To the very last, and even afterwards, her frown remained unsoftened.
她被放在床上。她躺在那儿一个多星期了，外表几乎没有什么变化，脸上刻着我熟知的那张古老而英俊、坚决的皱眉。很多很多次，无论白天还是黑夜，我把头枕在她身边的枕头上，这样我的低语对她来说可能更清楚，我亲吻她，感谢她，为她祈祷，请求她的祝福和宽恕，恳求她至少给我一点迹象表明她认识我或听到我说话。不不不。她的脸纹丝不动。直到最后，甚至事后，她的眉头都没有松动。

On the day after my poor good godmother was buried, the gentleman in black with the white neckcloth reappeared. I was sent for by Mrs. Rachael, and found him in the same place, as if he had never gone away.
在我可怜的好教母被埋葬的第二天，那位身穿黑衣、系着白领巾的绅士又出现了。雷切尔夫人叫我来找我，发现他还在同一个地方，仿佛他从未离开过。

‘My name is Kenge,’ he said; ‘you may remember it, my child; Kenge and Carboy, Lincoln’s Inn.’
“我叫肯格，”他说。 “你可能还记得，我的孩子；肯格和卡博伊，林肯律师学院。

I replied that I remembered to have seen him once before.
我回答说我记得以前见过他一次。

‘Pray be seated—here near me. Don’t distress yourself; it’s of no use. Mrs. Rachael, I needn’t inform you who were acquainted with the late Miss Barbary’s affairs, that her means die with her and that this young lady, now her aunt is dead—‘
“请坐——靠近我。”不要让自己难受；这是没有用的。雷切尔夫人，我不需要告诉你，你知道已故的巴巴里小姐的事情，她的意思是和她一起死，这位年轻的女士，现在她的姨妈死了——”

‘My aunt, sir!’
“我的姑妈，先生！”

‘It is really of no use carrying on a deception when no object is to be gained by it,’ said Mr. Kenge smoothly, ‘Aunt in fact, though not in law. Don’t distress yourself! Don’t weep! Don’t tremble! Mrs. Rachael, our young friend has no doubt heard of—the—a— Jarndyce and Jarndyce.’
“在没有任何目的的情况下，欺骗实在是没有任何用处的，”肯格先生平稳地说，“事实上，姑妈，虽然在法律上没有。”别为难自己了！别哭！别发抖！瑞秋夫人，我们的年轻朋友无疑听说过——那个——加迪斯和加迪斯。

‘Never,’ said Mrs. Rachael.
“从来没有，”雷切尔夫人说。

‘Is it possible,’ pursued Mr. Kenge, putting up his eye-glasses, ‘that our young friend—I BEG you won’t distress yourself!—never heard of Jarndyce and Jarndyce!’
“有没有可能，”肯格先生抬起眼镜继续说道，“我们的年轻朋友——我求你不要为自己难过！——从来没有听说过加迪斯和加迪斯！”

I shook my head, wondering even what it was.
我摇摇头，甚至想知道那是什么。

‘Not of Jarndyce and Jarndyce?’ said Mr. Kenge, looking over his glasses at me and softly turning the case about and about as if he were petting something. ‘Not of one of the greatest Chancery suits known? Not of Jarndyce and Jarndyce—the—a—in itself a monument of Chancery practice. In which (I would say) every difficulty, every contingency, every masterly fiction, every form of procedure known in that court, is represented over and over again? It is a cause that could not exist out of this free and great country. I should say that the aggregate of costs in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, Mrs. Rachael’—I was afraid he addressed himself to her because I appeared inattentive’—amounts at the present hour to from SIX-ty to SEVEN-ty THOUSAND POUNDS!’ said Mr. Kenge, leaning back in his chair.
“不是加迪斯和加迪斯的吗？”肯吉先生说，他透过眼镜看着我，轻轻地转动盒子，好像在抚摸什么东西。 “不是已知的最伟大的大法官诉讼之一吗？不是贾迪斯和贾迪斯——它——本身就是大法官法庭实践的纪念碑。 （我想说）法庭上已知的每一种困难、每一种意外情况、每一种巧妙的虚构、每一种形式的程序都被一遍又一遍地再现？这是一个在这个自由而伟大的国家不可能存在的事业。我应该说，贾迪斯和贾迪斯的总费用，雷切尔夫人，“我担心他对她说话，因为我显得漫不经心”，目前总计达六到七万英镑！肯吉先生靠在椅子上说道。

I felt very ignorant, but what could I do? I was so entirely unacquainted with the subject that I understood nothing about it even then.
我觉得自己很无知，但是我能做什么呢？我对这个话题完全不熟悉，以至于当时我对它一无所知。

‘And she really never heard of the cause!’ said Mr. Kenge. ‘Surprising!’
“她真的从来没有听说过原因！”肯格先生说。 '奇怪！'

‘Miss Barbary, sir,’ returned Mrs. Rachael, ‘who is now among the Seraphim—‘
“巴巴里小姐，先生，”雷切尔夫人回答道，“她现在是六翼天使之一——”

‘I hope so, I am sure,’ said Mr. Kenge politely.
“我相信，我希望如此，”肯格先生礼貌地说。

‘—Wished Esther only to know what would be serviceable to her. And she knows, from any teaching she has had here, nothing more.’
“——只希望埃丝特知道什么对她有用。她知道，从她在这里接受的任何教导中，仅此而已。

‘Well!’ said Mr. Kenge. ‘Upon the whole, very proper. Now to the point,’ addressing me. ‘Miss Barbary, your sole relation (in fact that is, for I am bound to observe that in law you had none) being deceased and it naturally not being to be expected that Mrs. Rachael—‘
“好吧！”肯吉先生说。 ‘总体来说，非常合适。现在进入正题，”对我说。 “巴巴里小姐，你唯一的亲属（事实上，也就是说，因为我必须指出，在法律上你没有任何亲属）已经去世，自然不能指望雷切尔夫人——”

‘Oh, dear no!’ said Mrs. Rachael quickly.
“哦，亲爱的，不！”雷切尔夫人很快说道。

‘Quite so,’ assented Mr. Kenge; ‘—that Mrs. Rachael should charge herself with your maintenance and support (I beg you won’t distress yourself), you are in a position to receive the renewal of an offer which I was instructed to make to Miss Barbary some two years ago and which, though rejected then, was understood to be renewable under the lamentable circumstances that have since occurred. Now, if I avow that I represent, in Jarndyce and Jarndyce and otherwise, a highly humane, but at the same time singular, man, shall I compromise myself by any stretch of my professional caution?’ said Mr. Kenge, leaning back in his chair again and looking calmly at us both.
“确实如此，”肯吉先生表示同意。 ’——瑞秋夫人应该负责你的赡养和支持（我请求你不要让自己感到难过），你有能力接受大约两年前我奉命向巴巴里小姐提出的续约。尽管当时遭到拒绝，但在后来发生的悲惨情况下，人们认为可以续约。 “现在，如果我承认我在加迪斯和加迪斯以及其他方面代表了一个高度人道但同时又独特的人，那么我是否会因职业谨慎而妥协？”肯吉先生靠在椅背上说道。他再次坐在椅子上，平静地看着我们俩。

He appeared to enjoy beyond everything the sound of his own voice. I couldn’t wonder at that, for it was mellow and full and gave great importance to every word he uttered. He listened to himself with obvious satisfaction and sometimes gently beat time to his own music with his head or rounded a sentence with his hand. I was very much impressed by him—even then, before I knew that he formed himself on the model of a great lord who was his client and that he was generally called Conversation Kenge.
他似乎非常喜欢自己的声音。我对此并不感到奇怪，因为他的语气柔和而饱满，并且非常重视他所说的每一个字。他带着明显的满足感听着自己的声音，有时会用头轻轻地用头敲打自己的音乐，或者用手来圆整一个句子。他给我留下了非常深刻的印象——即使在那时，我还不知道他是按照一位大领主（他的客户）的模型塑造自己的，而且他通常被称为“对话肯格”。

‘Mr. Jarndyce,’ he pursued, ‘being aware of the—I would say, desolate—position of our young friend, offers to place her at a first-rate establishment where her education shall be completed, where her comfort shall be secured, where her reasonable wants shall be anticipated, where she shall be eminently qualified to discharge her duty in that station of life unto which it has pleased—shall I say Providence?—to call her.’
'先生。贾迪斯，”他继续说道，“意识到我们年轻朋友的——我想说的是，凄凉的——处境，提出将她安置在一所一流的机构里，在那里她可以完成学业，在那里她的舒适得到保证，在那里她可以合理的需要是可以预见的，她将完全有资格在它所愿意的生活中履行她的职责——我应该说是上帝吗？——召唤她。

My heart was filled so full, both by what he said and by his affecting manner of saying it, that I was not able to speak, though I tried.
我的心被他的话和他动人的说话方式充满了，尽管我尽力了，但我却说不出话来。

‘Mr. Jarndyce,’ he went on, ‘makes no condition beyond expressing his expectation that our young friend will not at any time remove herself from the establishment in question without his knowledge and concurrence. That she will faithfully apply herself to the acquisition of those accomplishments, upon the exercise of which she will be ultimately dependent. That she will tread in the paths of virtue and honour, and—the—a—so forth.’
'先生。贾迪斯，”他继续说道，“除了表达他的期望之外，没有提出任何条件，即我们的年轻朋友在没有他的知情和同意的情况下，不会在任何时候离开有关机构。她将忠实地致力于获得这些成就，而她最终将依赖于这些成就的实现。她将踏上美德和荣誉的道路，等等。

I was still less able to speak than before.
我还是比以前不太会说话。

‘Now, what does our young friend say?’ proceeded Mr, Kenge. ‘Take time, take time! I pause for her reply. But take time!’
“现在，我们的年轻朋友怎么说？”肯格先生继续说道。 ‘抓紧时间，抓紧时间！我停下来等待她的答复。但需要时间！

What the destitute subject of such an offer tried to say, I need not repeat. What she did say, I could more easily tell, if it were worth the telling. What she felt, and will feel to her dying hour, I could never relate.
这个提议的贫困主体想表达的意思，我无需重复。如果值得讲述的话，我可以更容易地判断出她所说的内容。我永远无法理解她的感受，以及她临终前的感受。

This interview took place at Windsor, where I had passed (as far as I knew) my whole life. On that day week, amply provided with all necessaries, I left it, inside the stagecoach, for Reading.
这次采访发生在温莎，我在那里度过了（据我所知）我的一生。那天，我备齐了所有必需品，把它留在驿马车里，准备去雷丁。

Mrs. Rachael was too good to feel any emotion at parting, but I was not so good, and wept bitterly. I thought that I ought to have known her better after so many years and ought to have made myself enough of a favourite with her to make her sorry then. When she gave me one cold parting kiss upon my forehead, like a thaw-drop from the stone porch—it was a very frosty day—I felt so miserable and self-reproachful that I clung to her and told her it was my fault, I knew, that she could say good-bye so easily!
雷切尔太太太好了，临别时没有任何情绪，但我却没那么好，痛哭起来。我想，这么多年过去了，我应该更了解她，应该让自己成为她最喜欢的人，让她后悔。当她在我的额头上给了我一个冰冷的临别吻，就像石头门廊上的一滴解冻的水滴一样——那是一个非常寒冷的日子——我感到如此痛苦和自责，我紧紧抓住她，告诉她这是我的错，我知道，她可以这么轻易地告别！

‘No, Esther!’ she returned. ‘It is your misfortune!’
“不，埃丝特！”她回答道。 “这是你的不幸！”

The coach was at the little lawn-gate—we had not come out until we heard the wheels—and thus I left her, with a sorrowful heart. She went in before my boxes were lifted to the coach-roof and shut the door. As long as I could see the house, I looked back at it from the window through my tears. My godmother had left Mrs. Rachael all the little property she possessed; and there was to be a sale; and an old hearth-rug with roses on it, which always seemed to me the first thing in the world I had ever seen, was hanging outside in the frost and snow. A day or two before, I had wrapped the dear old doll in her own shawl and quietly laid her—I am half ashamed to tell it—in the garden-earth under the tree that shaded my old window. I had no companion left but my bird, and him I carried with me in his cage.
马车停在小草坪门口——我们直到听到车轮声才出来——于是我怀着悲伤的心情离开了她。在我的箱子被抬到车厢顶并关上门之前，她就进去了。只要能看到房子，我就透过窗户回头看它，泪流满面。我的教母把她所拥有的一点财产都留给了雷切尔夫人。并且将会有一次销售；一张铺着玫瑰花的旧壁炉地毯挂在外面的霜雪中，对我来说，这似乎是我见过的第一件东西。一两天前，我用自己的围巾包裹了这个可爱的老娃娃，然后悄悄地将她——我有点羞于告诉——放在我的旧窗户遮荫的树下的花园里。除了我的鸟，我没有同伴了，我把它放在笼子里随身携带。

When the house was out of sight, I sat, with my bird-cage in the straw at my feet, forward on the low seat to look out of the high window, watching the frosty trees, that were like beautiful pieces of spar, and the fields all smooth and white with last night’s snow, and the sun, so red but yielding so little heat, and the ice, dark like metal where the skaters and sliders had brushed the snow away. There was a gentleman in the coach who sat on the opposite seat and looked very large in a quantity of wrappings, but he sat gazing out of the other window and took no notice of me.
当房子消失在视线之外时，我坐在矮凳上，鸟笼放在脚边的稻草里，向前看高窗外，看着霜冻的树木，它们像美丽的晶石一样，田野因昨晚的雪而变得光滑、洁白，太阳如此红，但产生的热量却很少，而冰，黑得像金属，滑冰者和滑冰者把雪刷掉了。车厢里有一位绅士，他坐在对面的座位上，身上裹着一堆包装纸，看起来很大，但他坐在另一扇窗户上，没有注意到我。

I thought of my dead godmother, of the night when I read to her, of her frowning so fixedly and sternly in her bed, of the strange place I was going to, of the people I should find there, and what they would be like, and what they would say to me, when a voice in the coach gave me a terrible start.
我想起了死去的教母，想起了给她读书的那个夜晚，想起了她在床上坚定而严肃地皱着眉头，想起了我要去的那个陌生的地方，想起了我应该在那里找到的人，以及他们会是什么样子。 ，以及当教练里的一个声音让我吃了一惊时他们会对我说什么。

It said, ‘What the de-vil are you crying for?’
它说：“你到底在哭什么？”

I was so frightened that I lost my voice and could only answer in a whisper, ‘Me, sir?’ For of course I knew it must have been the gentleman in the quantity of wrappings, though he was still looking out of his window.
我吓得失声了，只能低声回答：“我，先生？”因为我当然知道那一定是那位裹着大量包装纸的绅士，尽管他仍然看着窗外。

‘Yes, you,’ he said, turning round.
“是的，你，”他说，转过身来。

‘I didn’t know I was crying, sir,’ I faltered.
“我不知道我在哭，先生，”我结结巴巴地说。

‘But you are!’ said the gentleman. ‘Look here!’ He came quite opposite to me from the other corner of the coach, brushed one of his large furry cuffs across my eyes (but without hurting me), and showed me that it was wet.
“但你确实是！”那位绅士说道。 “看这里！”他从车厢的另一个角落来到我对面，用他的一只毛茸茸的大手镯擦过我的眼睛（但没有伤害我），并向我展示它是湿的。

‘There! Now you know you are,’ he said. ‘Don’t you?’
'那里！现在你知道你是了，”他说。 “你不这么认为吗？”

‘Yes, sir,’ I said.
“是的，先生，”我说。

‘And what are you crying for?’ said the genfleman, ‘Don’t you want to go there?’
“你哭什么？”绅士说道，“你不想去那里吗？”

‘Where, sir?’
“去哪儿，先生？”

‘Where? Why, wherever you are going,’ said the gentleman.
'在哪里？哎呀，无论你要去哪里，”这位绅士说道。

‘I am very glad to go there, sir,’ I answered.
“我很高兴去那里，先生，”我回答道。

‘Well, then! Look glad!’ said the gentleman.
'好吧！看起来很高兴！”那位先生说道。

I thought he was very strange, or at least that what I could see of him was very strange, for he was wrapped up to the chin, and his face was almost hidden in a fur cap with broad fur straps at the side of his head fastened under his chin; but I was composed again, and not afraid of him. So I told him that I thought I must have been crying because of my godmother’s death and because of Mrs. Rachael’s not being sorry to part with me.
我觉得他很奇怪，或者至少我所看到的他很奇怪，因为他的下巴一直被包裹着，他的脸几乎被一顶毛皮帽子遮住了，头的一侧还绑着宽大的毛皮带子。固定在他的下巴下面；但我又镇定下来了，不再害怕他了。所以我告诉他，我想我一定是因为我教母的去世而哭泣，因为雷切尔夫人不后悔与我分开。

‘Confound Mrs. Rachael!’ said the gentleman. ‘Let her fly away in a high wind on a broomstick!’
“雷切尔夫人真该死！”那位绅士说道。 “让她骑着扫帚乘风飞走吧！”

I began to be really afraid of him now and looked at him with the greatest astonishment. But I thought that he had pleasant eyes, although he kept on muttering to himself in an angry manner and calling Mrs. Rachael names.
我现在开始真正害怕他，并以极大的惊讶看着他。但我认为他的眼睛很讨人喜欢，尽管他一直在生气地自言自语，辱骂雷切尔太太。

After a little while he opened his outer wrapper, which appeared to me large enough to wrap up the whole coach, and put his arm down into a deep pocket in the side.
过了一会儿，他打开了外包装，在我看来，外包装足够大，足以包裹整个车厢，然后他将手臂放入侧面的一个深口袋中。

‘Now, look here!’ he said. ‘In this paper,’ which was nicely folded, ‘is a piece of the best plum-cake that can be got for money—sugar on the outside an inch thick, like fat on mutton chops. Here’s a little pie (a gem this is, both for size and quality), made in France. And what do you suppose it’s made of? Livers of fat geese. There’s a pie! Now let’s see you eat ‘em.’
“现在，看这里！”他说。 “这张纸，”折叠得很好，“是一块能用钱买到的最好的梅花糕——外面的糖有一英寸厚，就像羊排上的肥肉一样。”这是法国制造的一个小馅饼（无论是大小还是质量，这都是宝石）。你认为它是由什么制成的？肥鹅的肝脏。有一个馅饼！现在让我们看看你吃它们。

‘Thank you, sir,’ I replied; ‘thank you very much indeed, but I hope you won’t be offended—they are too rich for me.’
“谢谢您，先生。”我回答道。 “确实非常感谢你，但我希望你不要生气——他们对我来说太富有了。”

‘Floored again!’ said the gentleman, which I didn’t at all understand, and threw them both out of window.
“又摔倒了！”那位先生说，我完全听不懂，然后把他们俩扔出了窗外。

He did not speak to me any more until he got out of the coach a little way short of Reading, when he advised me to be a good girl and to be studious, and shook hands with me. I must say I was relieved by his departure. We left him at a milestone. I often walked past it afterwards, and never for a long time without thinking of him and half expecting to meet him. But I never did; and so, as time went on, he passed out of my mind.
他没有再和我说话，直到他在距离雷丁还有一段路的时候下了车，他劝我做一个好女孩，要勤奋，并和我握手。我必须说，他的离开让我松了口气。我们把他留给了一个里程碑。后来我经常路过它，很长一段时间里，我都会想起他，半期待着见到他。但我从来没有这样做过；就这样，随着时间的流逝，他从我的脑海中消失了。

When the coach stopped, a very neat lady looked up at the window and said, ‘Miss Donny.’
当马车停下来时，一位非常整洁的女士抬头看着车窗说：“唐尼小姐。”

‘No, ma’am, Esther Summerson.’
“不，女士，埃丝特·萨默森。”

‘That is quite right,’ said the lady, ‘Miss Donny.’
“说得很对，”那位女士说，“唐尼小姐。”

I now understood that she introduced herself by that name, and begged Miss Donny’s pardon for my mistake, and pointed out my boxes at her request. Under the direction of a very neat maid, they were put outside a very small green carriage; and then Miss Donny, the maid, and I got inside and were driven away.
我现在明白了，她是用这个名字介绍自己的，并请求唐尼小姐原谅我的错误，并应她的要求指给我看箱子。在一个非常整洁的女仆的指挥下，他们被放在一辆很小的绿色马车外面。然后我和女仆唐尼小姐进了屋，然后被赶走了。

‘Everything is ready for you, Esther,’ said Miss Donny, ‘and the scheme of your pursuits has been arranged in exact accordance with the wishes of your guardian, Mr. Jarndyce.’
“一切都为你准备好了，埃丝特，”唐尼小姐说，“你的追求计划已经完全按照你的监护人贾迪斯先生的意愿安排好了。”

‘Of—did you say, ma’am?’
“女士，你是说的吗？”

‘Of your guardian, Mr. Jarndyce,’ said Miss Donny.
“关于你的监护人，贾迪斯先生，”唐尼小姐说。

I was so bewildered that Miss Donny thought the cold had been too severe for me and lent me her smelling-bottle.
我很困惑，唐尼小姐认为寒冷对我来说太严重了，就把她的嗅瓶借给了我。

‘Do you know my—guardian, Mr. Jarndyce, ma’am?’ I asked after a good deal of hesitation.
“女士，您认识我的监护人贾迪斯先生吗？”我犹豫了好一会儿才问道。

‘Not personally, Esther,’ said Miss Donny; ‘merely through his solicitors, Messrs. Kenge and Carboy, of London. A very superior gentleman, Mr. Kenge. Truly eloquent indeed. Some of his periods quite majestic!’
“不是针对个人，艾丝特，”唐尼小姐说。 “只是通过他的伦敦律师肯格先生和卡博伊先生。”肯格先生是一位非常优秀的绅士。确实很能言善道。他的一些时期相当雄伟！”

I felt this to be very true but was too confused to attend to it. Our speedy arrival at our destination, before I had time to recover myself, increased my confusion, and I never shall forget the uncertain and the unreal air of everything at Greenleaf (Miss Donny’s house) that afternoon!
我觉得这是非常正确的，但我太困惑了，无法关注它。我还没来得及回过神来，就迅速到达了目的地，这让我更加困惑，我永远不会忘记那天下午格林利夫（唐尼小姐家里）一切的不确定性和不真实的气氛！

But I soon became used to it. I was so adapted to the routine of Greenleaf before long that I seemed to have been there a great while and almost to have dreamed rather than really lived my old life at my godmother’s. Nothing could be more precise, exact, and orderly than Greenleaf. There was a time for everything all round the dial of the clock, and everything was done at its appointed moment.
但我很快就习惯了。不久之后，我就适应了格林利夫的日常生活，似乎在那里待了很长一段时间，几乎像是在做梦，而不是真正在教母那里过着我以前的生活。没有什么比 Greenleaf 更精确、准确和有序的了。时钟的表盘上所有的事情都有一个时间，一切都在指定的时刻完成。

We were twelve boarders, and there were two Miss Donnys, twins. It was understood that I would have to depend, by and by, on my qualifications as a governess, and I was not only instructed in everything that was taught at Greenleaf, but was very soon engaged in helping to instruct others. Although I was treated in every other respect like the rest of the school, this single difference was made in my case from the first. As I began to know more, I taught more, and so in course of time I had plenty to do, which I was very fond of doing because it made the dear girls fond of me. At last, whenever a new pupil came who was a little downcast and unhappy, she was so sure—indeed I don’t know why—to make a friend of me that all new-comers were confided to my care. They said I was so gentle, but I am sure THEY were! I often thought of the resolution I had made on my birthday to try to be industrious, contented, and true-hearted and to do some good to some one and win some love if I could; and indeed, indeed, I felt almost ashamed to have done so little and have won so much.
我们有十二名寄宿生，其中有两个唐尼斯小姐，是双胞胎。据了解，我将不得不逐渐依靠我作为家庭教师的资格，我不仅接受了格林利夫所教授的所有知识，而且很快就开始帮助指导其他人。尽管我在其他方面都受到了与学校其他人一样的待遇，但从一开始我的情况就存在着这一点差异。随着我开始了解更多，我教的也更多，所以随着时间的推移，我有很多事情要做，我非常喜欢这样做，因为这让亲爱的女孩们喜欢我。最后，每当有一个新学生来的时候，她有点沮丧和不高兴，她就那么肯定——事实上我不知道为什么——要和我成为朋友，所有新来的学生都交给我照顾。他们说我很温柔，但我确信他们确实如此！我时常想起我在生日那天立下的决心，要努力勤劳、知足、真诚，为别人做一些好事，赢得一些爱。确实，确实，我几乎为自己做得这么少却赢得了这么多而感到羞愧。

I passed at Greenleaf six happy, quiet years. I never saw in any face there, thank heaven, on my birthday, that it would have been better if I had never been born. When the day came round, it brought me so many tokens of affectionate remembrance that my room was beautiful with them from New Year’s Day to Christmas.
我在绿叶度过了快乐、平静的六年。感谢上帝，在我生日那天，我从没有从任何人的脸上看到，如果我从未出生过会更好。当这一天到来时，它给我带来了许多深情的回忆，从元旦到圣诞节，我的房间里都充满了它们。

In those six years I had never been away except on visits at holiday time in the neighbourhood. After the first six months or so I had taken Miss Donny’s advice in reference to the propriety of writing to Mr. Kenge to say that I was happy and grateful, and with her approval I had written such a letter. I had received a formal answer acknowledging its receipt and saying, ‘We note the contents thereof, which shall be duly communicated to our client.’ After that I sometimes heard Miss Donny and her sister mention how regular my accounts were paid, and about twice a year I ventured to write a similar letter. I always received by return of post exactly the same answer in the same round hand, with the signature of Kenge and Carboy in another writing, which I supposed to be Mr. Kenge’s.
在那六年里，除了节假日去附近拜访外，我从未离开过。大约头六个月后，我采纳了唐尼小姐的建议，即写信给肯格先生表达我的高兴和感激之情是恰当的，在她的同意下，我写了这样一封信。我收到了一份正式的答复，确认收到了它，并说：“我们记下其中的内容，并将及时传达给我们的客户。”此后，我有时听到唐尼小姐和她的妹妹提到我的帐户付款是如何定期的，大约两次有一年我冒险写了一封类似的信。我收到的回信总是用同一笔圆字写着完全相同的答案，上面有肯格和卡博伊的签名，我认为那是肯格先生的。

It seems so curious to me to be obliged to write all this about myself! As if this narrative were the narrative of MY life! But my little body will soon fall into the background now.
对我来说，不得不写下所有关于我自己的事情真是太奇怪了！仿佛这个故事就是我一生的故事！但我小小的身体很快就会退到幕后。

Six quiet years (I find I am saying it for the second time) I had passed at Greenleaf, seeing in those around me, as it might be in a looking-glass, every stage of my own growth and change there, when, one November morning, I received this letter. I omit the date.
我在格林利夫度过了安静的六年（我发现我是第二次这么说），在我周围的人身上，就像在镜子里一样，看到我自己成长和变化的每一个阶段，当，十一月的早晨，我收到了这封信。我省略了日期。

Old Square, Lincoln’s Inn
老广场，林肯旅馆

Madam,
女士，

Jarndyce and Jarndyce
贾迪斯和贾迪斯

Our clt Mr. Jarndyce being abt to rece into his house, under an Order of the Ct of Chy, a Ward of the Ct in this cause, for whom he wishes to secure an elgble compn, directs us to inform you that he will be glad of your serces in the afsd capacity.
我们的 CLT Jarndyce 先生根据 Chy 区的命令，即将回到他的家中，他希望为他获得一份 elgble compn，指示我们通知您，他将很高兴您以 afsd 的身份提供服务。

We have arrngd for your being forded, carriage free, pr eight o’clock coach from Reading, on Monday morning next, to White Horse Cellar, Piccadilly, London, where one of our clks will be in waiting to convey you to our offe as above.
我们已经为您安排了下周一早上八点钟从雷丁出发的无马车涉渡巴士，前往伦敦皮卡迪利大街的白马酒窖，我们的一名乘客将在那里等候，将您送至我们的工作地点。多于。

We are, Madam, Your obedt Servts,
女士，我们是您的忠实仆人，

Kenge and Carboy
肯格和卡博伊

Miss Esther Summerson
埃丝特·萨默森小姐

Oh, never, never, never shall I forget the emotion this letter caused in the house! It was so tender in them to care so much for me, it was so gracious in that father who had not forgotten me to have made my orphan way so smooth and easy and to have inclined so many youthful natures towards me, that I could hardly bear it. Not that I would have had them less sorry—I am afraid not; but the pleasure of it, and the pain of it, and the pride and joy of it, and the humble regret of it were so blended that my heart seemed almost breaking while it was full of rapture.
哦，我永远、永远、永远不会忘记这封信在家里引起的激动！他们如此温柔地关心我，父亲如此仁慈，他没有忘记我，使我的孤儿之路如此顺利和轻松，并让许多年轻的天性向我倾斜，我几乎不能忍受。这并不是说我会让他们少些遗憾——恐怕不会；但它的快乐、它的痛苦、它的骄傲和喜悦、它的谦卑的遗憾是如此地混合在一起，我的心在狂喜之中几乎要破碎了。

The letter gave me only five days’ notice of my removal. When every minute added to the proofs of love and kindness that were given me in those five days, and when at last the morning came and when they took me through all the rooms that I might see them for the last time, and when some cried, ‘Esther, dear, say good-bye to me here at my bedside, where you first spoke so kindly to me!’ and when others asked me only to write their names, ‘With Esther’s love,’ and when they all surrounded me with their parting presents and clung to me weeping and cried, ‘What shall we do when dear, dear Esther’s gone!’ and when I tried to tell them how forbearing and how good they had all been to me and how I blessed and thanked them every one, what a heart I had!
这封信只提前五天通知我我将被解雇。当每一分钟都增加了那五天里给予我的爱和善意的证据时，当早晨终于到来时，当他们带我穿过所有房间以便我最后一次见到他们时，当有些人哭泣时“埃丝特，亲爱的，在我的床边向我告别，你第一次对我如此友善地说话！”当其他人只要求我写下他们的名字时，“以埃丝特的爱”，当他们都围着我时带着他们的离别礼物，紧紧地抱住我，哭泣着喊道：“亲爱的、亲爱的埃丝特走了，我们该怎么办！”当我试图告诉他们他们对我是多么宽容和多么好，以及我如何祝福和感谢他们时每个人，我都有一颗多么大的心啊！

And when the two Miss Donnys grieved as much to part with me as the least among them, and when the maids said, ‘Bless you, miss, wherever you go!’ and when the ugly lame old gardener, who I thought had hardly noticed me in all those years, came panting after the coach to give me a little nosegay of geraniums and told me I had been the light of his eyes—indeed the old man said so!— what a heart I had then!
当两个唐尼斯小姐像她们中最小的一个一样悲伤地与我分离时，当女仆们说：“祝福你，小姐，无论你去哪里！”当那个丑陋的跛脚老园丁（我以为他几乎没有注意到）时那些年，我气喘吁吁地跟在教练后面，给了我一束天竺葵，并告诉我，我一直是他眼中的光——老人确实这么说！——那时我的心是多么的好啊！

And could I help it if with all this, and the coming to the little school, and the unexpected sight of the poor children outside waving their hats and bonnets to me, and of a grey-haired gentleman and lady whose daughter I had helped to teach and at whose house I had visited (who were said to be the proudest people in all that country), caring for nothing but calling out, ‘Good-bye, Esther. May you be very happy!’—could I help it if I was quite bowed down in the coach by myself and said ‘Oh, I am so thankful, I am so thankful!’ many times over!
面对这一切，来到这所小学校，意外地看到外面可怜的孩子们向我挥舞着帽子和软帽，还有一位白发的绅士和女士，我曾帮助他们的女儿我在他的家里教书，拜访过他们（据说他们是这个国家最骄傲的人），除了大声喊道“再见，埃丝特”之外，什么都不关心。祝你幸福！”——如果我一个人在车厢里跪下，多次说“哦，我太感谢了，我太感谢了！”，我能不能控制住呢！

But of course I soon considered that I must not take tears where I was going after all that had been done for me. Therefore, of course, I made myself sob less and persuaded myself to be quiet by saying very often, ‘Esther, now you really must! This WILL NOT do!’ I cheered myself up pretty well at last, though I am afraid I was longer about it than I ought to have been; and when I had cooled my eyes with lavender water, it was time to watch for London.
但当然，我很快就考虑到，在为我所做的一切之后，我不能在我要去的地方流泪。因此，当然，我经常说：‘以斯帖，现在你真的必须这么做了，以此来让自己少抽泣，并说服自己保持安静。这不行！”我终于给自己打气了，尽管我担心我说得比我应该说的要长。当我用薰衣草水冷却眼睛后，就到了眺望伦敦的时候了。

I was quite persuaded that we were there when we were ten miles off, and when we really were there, that we should never get there. However, when we began to jolt upon a stone pavement, and particularly when every other conveyance seemed to be running into us, and we seemed to be running into every other conveyance, I began to believe that we really were approaching the end of our journey. Very soon afterwards we stopped.
我坚信，当我们距离十英里远时，我们就在那里，而当我们真正在那里时，我们永远不应该到达那里。然而，当我们开始在石头路面上颠簸时，特别是当其他所有交通工具似乎都在撞上我们时，而我们似乎也正在撞上所有其他交通工具时，我开始相信我们真的正在接近旅程的终点。很快我们就停了下来。

A young gentleman who had inked himself by accident addressed me from the pavement and said, ‘I am from Kenge and Carboy’s, miss, of Lincoln’s Inn.’
一位年轻的绅士不小心在身上沾了墨水，他在人行道上对我说道：“我来自林肯律师学院的肯格和卡博伊小姐。”

‘If you please, sir,’ said I.
“如果您愿意的话，先生，”我说道。

He was very obliging, and as he handed me into a fly after superintending the removal of my boxes, I asked him whether there was a great fire anywhere? For the streets were so full of dense brown smoke that scarcely anything was to be seen.
他非常乐于助人，当他监督我搬走箱子后把我交给苍蝇时，我问他是否有地方发生大火？因为街道上充满了浓浓的棕色烟雾，几乎什么也看不见。

‘Oh, dear no, miss,’ he said. ‘This is a London particular.’
“哦，亲爱的，不，小姐，”他说。 “这是伦敦的特色。”

I had never heard of such a thing.
我从来没有听说过这样的事情。

‘A fog, miss,’ said the young gentleman.
“有雾，小姐，”年轻的绅士说道。

‘Oh, indeed!’ said I.
“哦，确实如此！”我说道。

We drove slowly through the dirtiest and darkest streets that ever were seen in the world (I thought) and in such a distracting state of confusion that I wondered how the people kept their senses, until we passed into sudden quietude under an old gateway and drove on through a silent square until we came to an odd nook in a corner, where there was an entrance up a steep, broad flight of stairs, like an entrance to a church. And there really was a churchyard outside under some cloisters, for I saw the gravestones from the staircase window.
我们缓慢地驶过世界上最肮脏、最黑暗的街道（我想），在一种令人分心的混乱状态中，我想知道人们是如何保持理智的，直到我们在一个古老的大门下突然陷入安静，开车穿过一个寂静的广场，直到我们来到一个角落里的一个奇怪的角落，那里有一个入口，通往陡峭而宽阔的楼梯，就像教堂的入口一样。外面的一些回廊下面确实有一个教堂墓地，因为我从楼梯的窗户看到了墓碑。

This was Kenge and Carboy’s. The young gentleman showed me through an outer office into Mr. Kenge’s room—there was no one in it—and politely put an arm-chair for me by the fire. He then called my attention to a little looking-glass hanging from a nail on one side of the chimney-piece.
这是 Kenge 和 Carboy 的。这位年轻的绅士带我穿过外面的办公室，进入肯格先生的房间——里面没有人——并礼貌地在火边为我放了一张扶手椅。然后他让我注意烟囱一侧的钉子上挂着的一个小镜子。

‘In case you should wish to look at yourself, miss, after the journey, as you’re going before the Chancellor. Not that it’s requisite, I am sure,’ said the young gentleman civilly.
“如果您想看看自己，小姐，在旅途结束后，您将前往总理府。我确信这并不是必需的。”年轻的绅士礼貌地说。

‘Going before the Chancellor?’ I said, startled for a moment.
“去见财政大臣？”我惊讶地说。

‘Only a matter of form, miss,’ returned the young gentleman. ‘Mr. Kenge is in court now. He left his compliments, and would you partake of some refreshment’—there were biscuits and a decanter of wine on a small table—‘and look over the paper,’ which the young gentleman gave me as he spoke. He then stirred the fire and left me.
“只是形式问题，小姐，”年轻绅士回答道。 '先生。肯格现在出庭。他留下了他的致意，你能吃点点心吗？”——小桌子上有饼干和一瓶酒——“看看报纸，”年轻的绅士一边说话，一边递给我。然后他搅动了火，就离开了我。

Everything was so strange—the stranger from its being night in the day-time, the candles burning with a white flame, and looking raw and cold—that I read the words in the newspaper without knowing what they meant and found myself reading the same words repeatedly. As it was of no use going on in that way, I put the paper down, took a peep at my bonnet in the glass to see if it was neat, and looked at the room, which was not half lighted, and at the shabby, dusty tables, and at the piles of writings, and at a bookcase full of the most inexpressive-looking books that ever had anything to say for themselves. Then I went on, thinking, thinking, thinking; and the fire went on, burning, burning, burning; and the candles went on flickering and guttering, and there were no snuffers—until the young gentleman by and by brought a very dirty pair—for two hours.
一切都是那么陌生——白天是夜晚，蜡烛燃烧着白色的火焰，看起来又冷又冷——我读着报纸上的文字，却不知道它们的意思，发现自己读着同样的内容反复的话。这样下去是没有用的，我把报纸放下，从玻璃里看了一眼我的帽子是否整洁，又看了看房间里没有半点光亮，又看了看破旧的房间。布满灰尘的桌子，成堆的著作，还有一个书柜，里面装满了看起来最缺乏表达力的书籍，但它们本身却没什么可说的。然后我继续思考，思考，思考；火继续燃烧，燃烧，燃烧；蜡烛继续闪烁、熄灭，也没有蜡烛——直到那位年轻的绅士不久带来了一把非常脏的蜡烛——持续了两个小时。

At last Mr. Kenge came. HE was not altered, but he was surprised to see how altered I was and appeared quite pleased. ‘As you are going to be the companion of the young lady who is now in the Chancellor’s private room, Miss Summerson,’ he said, ‘we thought it well that you should be in attendance also. You will not be discomposed by the Lord Chancellor, I dare say?’
肯格先生终于来了。他没有改变，但他很惊讶地看到我的改变如此之大，并且显得很高兴。 “由于您将成为现在在财政大臣私人房间里的萨默森小姐的伴侣，”他说，“我们认为您也应该出席。”我敢说，大法官不会让你感到不安吧？

‘No, sir,’ I said, ‘I don’t think I shall,’ really not seeing on consideration why I should be.
“不，先生，”我说，“我想我不会。”我真的没有考虑过为什么我应该这样做。

So Mr. Kenge gave me his arm and we went round the corner, under a colonnade, and in at a side door. And so we came, along a passage, into a comfortable sort of room where a young lady and a young gentleman were standing near a great, loud-roaring fire. A screen was interposed between them and it, and they were leaning on the screen, talking.
于是肯格先生伸出了手臂，我们绕过拐角，从柱廊下，从侧门进去。于是我们沿着一条通道来到一间舒适的房间，一位年轻的女士和一位年轻的绅士站在熊熊燃烧的大火旁边。他们和它之间有一个屏幕，他们靠在屏幕上说话。

They both looked up when I came in, and I saw in the young lady, with the fire shining upon her, such a beautiful girl! With such rich golden hair, such soft blue eyes, and such a bright, innocent, trusting face!
当我进来的时候，他们都抬起头来，我看到那位年轻的女士，火光照射在她身上，是一个多么美丽的女孩啊！有着如此浓密的金色头发，如此柔和的蓝眼睛，以及如此明亮、天真、信任的脸！

‘Miss Ada,’ said Mr. Kenge, ‘this is Miss Summerson.’
“艾达小姐，”肯吉先生说，“这是萨默森小姐。”

She came to meet me with a smile of welcome and her hand extended, but seemed to change her mind in a moment and kissed me. In short, she had such a natural, captivating, winning manner that in a few minutes we were sitting in the window-seat, with the light of the fire upon us, talking together as free and happy as could be.
她带着欢迎的微笑来迎接我，并伸出了手，但似乎很快就改变了主意，吻了我。简而言之，她有一种自然、迷人、迷人的态度，几分钟后我们就坐在靠窗的座位上，在火光的照耀下，尽可能地自由而快乐地交谈。

What a load off my mind! It was so delightful to know that she could confide in me and like me! It was so good of her, and so encouraging to me!
我心里的负担多么减轻啊！很高兴知道她可以向我倾诉并喜欢我！她真是太好了，对我来说太鼓舞了！

The young gentleman was her distant cousin, she told me, and his name Richard Carstone. He was a handsome youth with an ingenuous face and a most engaging laugh; and after she had called him up to where we sat, he stood by us, in the light of the fire, talking gaily, like a light-hearted boy. He was very young, not more than nineteen then, if quite so much, but nearly two years older than she was. They were both orphans and (what was very unexpected and curious to me) had never met before that day. Our all three coming together for the first time in such an unusual place was a thing to talk about, and we talked about it; and the fire, which had left off roaring, winked its red eyes at us—as Richard said—like a drowsy old Chancery lion.
她告诉我，这位年轻的绅士是她的远房表弟，他的名字叫理查德·卡斯顿。他是一位英俊的青年，有着一张天真无邪的脸，笑起来十分迷人。她把他叫到我们坐的地方后，他站在我们旁边，在火光下，愉快地说话，就像一个无忧无虑的男孩。他很年轻，当时还不到十九岁，如果说还不少的话，但比她大了将近两岁。他们都是孤儿，而且（这让我非常意外和好奇）在那之前从未见过面。我们三个人第一次在这样一个不寻常的地方聚在一起是一件值得谈论的事情，我们也谈论了它;火焰停止了咆哮，像理查德所说的那样，向我们眨着红眼睛，就像一头昏昏欲睡的大法官狮子。

We conversed in a low tone because a full-dressed gentleman in a bag wig frequenfly came in and out, and when he did so, we could hear a drawling sound in the distance, which he said was one of the counsel in our case addressing the Lord Chancellor. He told Mr. Kenge that the Chancellor would be up in five minutes; and presently we heard a bustle and a tread of feet, and Mr. Kenge said that the Court had risen and his lordship was in the next room.
我们低声交谈，因为一位穿着全套、戴着假发的绅士经常进出，当他这样做时，我们可以听到远处有拖长声音，他说这是我们案件中的律师之一大法官。他告诉肯格先生，财政大臣将在五分钟内起床。不久，我们听到一阵喧闹声和一阵脚步声，肯格先生说法庭已经起立，勋爵阁下就在隔壁房间。

The gentleman in the bag wig opened the door almost directly and requested Mr. Kenge to come in. Upon that, we all went into the next room, Mr. Kenge first, with my darling—it is so natural to me now that I can’t help writing it; and there, plainly dressed in black and sitting in an arm-chair at a table near the fire, was his lordship, whose robe, trimmed with beautiful gold lace, was thrown upon another chair. He gave us a searching look as we entered, but his manner was both courtly and kind.
戴着假发袋的绅士几乎直接打开门，请肯格先生进来。然后，我们都走进隔壁房间，肯格先生先和我的宝贝——现在对我来说这是很自然的，我可以忍不住写下来；在那里，他的勋爵穿着朴素的黑色衣服，坐在靠近火炉的一张桌子旁的扶手椅上，他的长袍上镶着美丽的金色蕾丝，被扔在另一张椅子上。当我们进去时，他用审视的眼神看着我们，但他的举止既彬彬有礼又友善。

The gentleman in the bag wig laid bundles of papers on his lordship’s table, and his lordship silently selected one and turned over the leaves.
戴着假发袋的绅士把一捆捆文件放在大人的桌子上，大人默默地挑选了一张，翻了起来。

‘Miss Clare,’ said the Lord Chancellor. ‘Miss Ada Clare?’
“克莱尔小姐，”大法官说道。 “艾达·克莱尔小姐？”

Mr. Kenge presented her, and his lordship begged her to sit down near him. That he admired her and was interested by her even I could see in a moment. It touched me that the home of such a beautiful young creature should be represented by that dry, official place. The Lord High Chancellor, at his best, appeared so poor a substitute for the love and pride of parents.
肯格先生介绍了她，勋爵大人请她坐在他旁边。我立刻就看出他很欣赏她，对她感兴趣。让我感动的是，这样一个美丽的年轻生物的家应该由那个干燥、官方的地方来代表。大法官在他最好的状态下，显得如此可怜，无法替代父母的爱和骄傲。

‘The Jarndyce in question,’ said the Lord Chancellor, still turning over leaves, ‘is Jarndyce of Bleak House.’
“我们所说的贾迪斯，”大法官一边翻着书页一边说，“是《荒凉山庄》里的贾迪斯。”

‘Jarndyce of Bleak House, my lord,’ said Mr. Kenge.
“大人，荒凉山庄的贾迪斯，”肯吉先生说道。

‘A dreary name,’ said the Lord Chancellor.
“一个沉闷的名字，”大法官说。

‘But not a dreary place at present, my lord,’ said Mr. Kenge.
“但大人，目前这个地方并不沉闷。”肯格先生说道。

‘And Bleak House,’ said his lordship, ‘is in—‘
“荒凉山庄，”大人说道，“是在——”

‘Hertfordshire, my lord.’
“赫特福德郡，陛下。”

‘Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House is not married?’ said his lordship.
'先生。荒凉山庄的贾迪斯还没结婚吧？”大人说道。

‘He is not, my lord,’ said Mr. Kenge.
“大人，他不是，”肯吉先生说。

A pause.
停顿一下。

‘Young Mr. Richard Carstone is present?’ said the Lord Chancellor, glancing towards him.
“年轻的理查德·卡斯通先生在吗？”大法官看了他一眼说道。

Richard bowed and stepped forward.
理查德鞠了一躬，向前走去。

‘Hum!’ said the Lord Chancellor, turning over more leaves.
“嗯！”大法官一边说，一边翻动更多的叶子。

‘Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House, my lord,’ Mr. Kenge observed in a low voice, ‘if I may venture to remind your lordship, provides a suitable companion for—‘
'先生。荒凉山庄的贾迪斯，大人，”肯吉先生低声说道，“请允许我冒昧地提醒一下大人，他为——提供了一个合适的同伴——”

‘For Mr. Richard Carstone?’ I thought (but I am not quite sure) I heard his lordship say in an equally low voice and with a smile.
“理查德·卡斯通先生？”我想（但我不太确定）我听到勋爵大人微笑着用同样低沉的声音说道。

‘For Miss Ada Clare. This is the young lady. Miss Summerson.’
“献给艾达·克莱尔小姐。”这就是那位年轻女士。萨默森小姐。”

His lordship gave me an indulgent look and acknowledged my curtsy very graciously.
勋爵大人宽容地看了我一眼，非常客气地接受了我的屈膝礼。

‘Miss Summerson is not related to any party in the cause, I think?’
“我想萨默森小姐与这项事业中的任何一方都没有关系？”

‘No, my lord.’
“不，大人。”

Mr. Kenge leant over before it was quite said and whispered. His lordship, with his eyes upon his papers, listened, nodded twice or thrice, turned over more leaves, and did not look towards me again until we were going away.
话还没说完，肯格先生就靠过来低声说道。勋爵大人眼睛盯着文件，听着，点了两三次头，翻了更多的书页，直到我们离开时才再看我一眼。

Mr. Kenge now retired, and Richard with him, to where I was, near the door, leaving my pet (it is so natural to me that again I can’t help it!) sitting near the Lord Chancellor, with whom his lordship spoke a little part, asking her, as she told me afterwards, whether she had well reflected on the proposed arrangement, and if she thought she would be happy under the roof of Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House, and why she thought so? Presently he rose courteously and released her, and then he spoke for a minute or two with Richard Carstone, not seated, but standing, and altogether with more ease and less ceremony, as if he still knew, though he WAS Lord Chancellor, how to go straight to the candour of a boy.
肯格先生现在退休了，理查德也跟着他，来到我所在的地方，靠近门，留下我的宠物（这对我来说太自然了，我又忍不住了！）坐在大法官旁边，大法官和他在一起她后来告诉我，她说了一小段话，问她是否对拟议的安排进行了充分的反思，是否认为自己在《荒凉山庄》的贾迪斯先生的屋檐下会感到幸福，为什么会这么想？不久，他礼貌地站起来，放开了她，然后他和理查德·卡斯通谈了一两分钟，不是坐着，而是站着，更加轻松，更少仪式，仿佛他仍然知道，尽管他是大法官，如何直奔男孩的坦白。

‘Very well!’ said his lordship aloud. ‘I shall make the order. Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House has chosen, so far as I may judge,’ and this was when he looked at me, ‘a very good companion for the young lady, and the arrangement altogether seems the best of which the circumstances admit.’
“很好！”大人大声说道。 ‘我来下命令。据我判断，《荒凉山庄》的贾迪斯先生已经为这位年轻女士选择了一个非常好的伴侣，就我而言，”这是他看着我的时候，而且这种安排似乎是目前情况下最好的安排。”

He dismissed us pleasantly, and we all went out, very much obliged to him for being so affable and polite, by which he had certainly lost no dignity but seemed to us to have gained some.
他愉快地送我们出去，我们都出去了，非常感谢他如此和蔼可亲、彬彬有礼，他当然没有失去尊严，但在我们看来却赢得了一些尊严。

When we got under the colonnade, Mr. Kenge remembered that he must go back for a moment to ask a question and left us in the fog, with the Lord Chancellor’s carriage and servants waiting for him to come out.
当我们走到柱廊下时，肯格先生想起他必须回去问一个问题，就把我们留在了迷雾中，大法官的马车和仆人正在等待他出来。

‘Well!’ said Richard Carstone. ‘THAT’S over! And where do we go next, Miss Summerson?’
“好吧！”理查德·卡斯顿说。 '已经过去了！萨默森小姐，我们下一步该去哪里？

‘Don’t you know?’ I said.
“你不知道吗？”我说。

‘Not in the least,’ said he.
“一点也不，”他说。

‘And don’t YOU know, my love?’ I asked Ada.
“亲爱的，你难道不知道吗？”我问艾达。

‘No!’ said she. ‘Don’t you?’
“不！”她说。 “你不这么认为吗？”

‘Not at all!’ said I.
“一点也不！”我说。

We looked at one another, half laughing at our being like the children in the wood, when a curious little old woman in a squeezed bonnet and carrying a reticule came curtsying and smiling up to us with an air of great ceremony.
我们面面相觑，半笑半笑，因为我们就像树林里的孩子一样。 这时，一位好奇的小老妇人戴着帽子，手里拿着手提包，带着一种庄重的仪式向我们行屈膝礼，微笑着。

‘Oh!’ said she. ‘The wards in Jarndyce! Ve-ry happy, I am sure, to have the honour! It is a good omen for youth, and hope, and beauty when they find themselves in this place, and don’t know what’s to come of it.’
“哦！”她说。 “贾迪斯的病房！我确信，能有此荣幸，我感到非常高兴！当他们发现自己身处这个地方，却不知道会发生什么时，这对青春、希望和美丽来说是一个好兆头。

‘Mad!’ whispered Richard, not thinking she could hear him.
“疯了！”理查德低声说道，没想到她能听到他的声音。

‘Right! Mad, young gentleman,’ she returned so quickly that he was quite abashed. ‘I was a ward myself. I was not mad at that time,’ curtsying low and smiling between every little sentence. ‘I had youth and hope. I believe, beauty. It matters very little now. Neither of the three served or saved me. I have the honour to attend court regularly. With my documents. I expect a judgment. Shortly. On the Day of Judgment. I have discovered that the sixth seal mentioned in the Revelations is the Great Seal. It has been open a long time! Pray accept my blessing.’
'正确的！疯了，年轻的绅士。”她很快就回了话，让他感到非常尴尬。 “我自己也是一名受监护人。我当时并没有生气，”每句话之间都低下屈膝礼，微笑着。 “我曾经拥有青春和希望。我相信，美丽。现在这已经不重要了。这三个人都没有帮助或拯救我。我有幸定期出庭。和我的文件。我期待一个判决。不久。在审判日。我发现启示录中提到的第六印就是大印。已经开业好久了！请接受我的祝福。

As Ada was a little frightened, I said, to humour the poor old lady, that we were much obliged to her.
由于艾达有点害怕，为了迁就这位可怜的老太太，我说我们非常感谢她。

‘Ye-es!’ she said mincingly. ‘I imagine so. And here is Conversation Kenge. With HIS documents! How does your honourable worship do?’
“是的，是的！”她装腔作势地说。 ” “我想是这样。这是肯格对话。与他的文件！你的尊贵崇拜怎么样？

‘Quite well, quite well! Now don’t be troublesome, that’s a good soul!’ said Mr. Kenge, leading the way back.
‘很好，很好！现在别麻烦了，这是一个好灵魂！”肯格先生一边说着，一边带路回去。

‘By no means,’ said the poor old lady, keeping up with Ada and me. ‘Anything but troublesome. I shall confer estates on both—which is not being troublesome, I trust? I expect a judgment. Shortly. On the Day of Judgment. This is a good omen for you. Accept my blessing!’
“决不，”可怜的老太太一边说，一边跟上艾达和我。 ‘除了麻烦之外什么都可以。我将授予两人遗产——我相信这不会很麻烦吧？我期待一个判决。不久。在审判日。这对你来说是个好兆头。接受我的祝福吧！

She stopped at the bottom of the steep, broad flight of stairs; but we looked back as we went up, and she was still there, saying, still with a curtsy and a smile between every little sentence, ‘Youth. And hope. And beauty. And Chancery. And Conversation Kenge! Ha! Pray accept my blessing!’
她在陡峭、宽阔的楼梯底部停了下来。但我们上楼时回头一看，她还在那儿，每句话之间仍然带着微笑，行屈膝礼，说道：“青春。”和希望。和美丽。还有大法官办公室。和对话肯格！哈！请接受我的祝福！

CHAPTER IV
第四章


Telescopic Philanthropy
伸缩式慈善事业

We were to pass the night, Mr. Kenge told us when we arrived in his room, at Mrs. Jellyby’s; and then he turned to me and said he took it for granted I knew who Mrs. Jellyby was.
当我们到达杰利比夫人家时，肯吉先生告诉我们，我们要过夜。然后他转向我说他理所当然地认为我知道杰利比夫人是谁。

‘I really don’t, sir,’ I returned. ‘Perhaps Mr. Carstone—or Miss Clare—‘
“我真的不知道，先生，”我回答道。 “也许卡斯通先生——或者克莱尔小姐——”

But no, they knew nothing whatever about Mrs. Jellyby. ‘In-deed! Mrs. Jellyby,’ said Mr. Kenge, standing with his back to the fire and casting his eyes over the dusty hearth-rug as if it were Mrs. Jellyby’s biography, ‘is a lady of very remarkable strength of character who devotes herself entirely to the public. She has devoted herself to an extensive variety of public subjects at various times and is at present (until something else attracts her) devoted to the subject of Africa, with a view to the general cultivation of the coffee berry—AND the natives—and the happy settlement, on the banks of the African rivers, of our superabundant home population. Mr. Jarndyce, who is desirous to aid any work that is considered likely to be a good work and who is much sought after by philanthropists, has, I believe, a very high opinion of Mrs. Jellyby.’
但不，他们对杰利比夫人一无所知。 '的确！杰利比夫人，”肯吉先生说，他背对着火站着，目光投向布满灰尘的壁炉地毯，仿佛这是杰利比夫人的传记，“是一位性格非常坚强的女士，她全身心地奉献自己的事业。对公众。她在不同时期致力于广泛的公共主题，目前（直到有其他事情吸引她）致力于非洲主题，着眼于咖啡浆果和当地人的一般种植以及咖啡豆的种植。我们过剩的家乡人口在非洲河岸上幸福地定居。贾迪斯先生愿意帮助任何被认为可能是好作品的工作，并且受到慈善家的追捧，我相信他对杰利比夫人的评价非常高。

Mr. Kenge, adjusting his cravat, then looked at us.
肯格先生整理了一下领带，然后看着我们。

‘And Mr. Jellyby, sir?’ suggested Richard.
“那么杰利比先生呢，先生？”理查德建议道。

‘Ah! Mr. Jellyby,’ said Mr. Kenge, ‘is—a—I don’t know that I can describe him to you better than by saying that he is the husband of Mrs. Jellyby.’
'啊！杰利比先生，”肯吉先生说，“我不知道向您描述他比说他是杰利比太太的丈夫更好。”

‘A nonentity, sir?’ said Richard with a droll look.
“无足轻重，先生？”理查德一脸滑稽地说。

‘I don’t say that,’ returned Mr. Kenge gravely. ‘I can’t say that, indeed, for I know nothing whatever OF Mr. Jellyby. I never, to my knowledge, had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Jellyby. He may be a very superior man, but he is, so to speak, merged—merged—in the more shining qualities of his wife.’ Mr. Kenge proceeded to tell us that as the road to Bleak House would have been very long, dark, and tedious on such an evening, and as we had been travelling already, Mr. Jarndyce had himself proposed this arrangement. A carriage would be at Mrs. Jellyby’s to convey us out of town early in the forenoon of to-morrow.
“我没这么说。”肯吉先生严肃地回答道。 “事实上，我不能这么说，因为我对杰利比先生一无所知。据我所知，我从未有幸见到杰利比先生。他可能是一个非常优秀的男人，但可以说，他融合了——融合了——他妻子更闪亮的品质。这样的一个夜晚又黑又乏味，而且由于我们已经出发了，贾迪斯先生亲自提出了这样的安排。明天一早，杰利比太太家就会有一辆马车送我们出城。

He then rang a little bell, and the young gentleman came in. Addressing him by the name of Guppy, Mr. Kenge inquired whether Miss Summerson’s boxes and the rest of the baggage had been ‘sent round.’ Mr. Guppy said yes, they had been sent round, and a coach was waiting to take us round too as soon as we pleased.
然后他按响了小门铃，那位年轻的绅士进来了。肯吉先生称呼他为古比，询问萨默森小姐的箱子和其他行李是否已经“送去”。古比先生说是的，他们已经被派去参观了，只要我们愿意，教练就等着带我们参观。

‘Then it only remains,’ said Mr. Kenge, shaking hands with us, ‘for me to express my lively satisfaction in (good day, Miss Clare!) the arrangement this day concluded and my (GOOD-bye to you, Miss Summerson!) lively hope that it will conduce to the happiness, the (glad to have had the honour of making your acquaintance, Mr. Carstone!) welfare, the advantage in all points of view, of all concerned! Guppy, see the party safely there.’
“那么，”肯吉先生与我们握手时说道，“我对（美好的一天，克莱尔小姐！）今天的安排表示非常满意，我的（再见，萨默森小姐） ！） 热切地希望这将有助于幸福、（很高兴有幸认识您，卡斯通先生！） 福利、所有观点、所有有关方面的优势！孔雀鱼，祝大家安全。”

‘Where IS ‘there,’ Mr. Guppy?’ said Richard as we went downstairs.
“‘那里’在哪里，古皮先生？”我们下楼时理查德问道。

‘No distance,’ said Mr. Guppy; ‘round in Thavies Inn, you know.’
“没有距离，”孔雀先生说。 “你知道，在 Thavies Inn 转转。”

‘I can’t say I know where it is, for I come from Winchester and am strange in London.’
“我不能说我知道它在哪里，因为我来自温彻斯特，对伦敦很陌生。”

‘Only round the corner,’ said Mr. Guppy. ‘We just twist up Chancery Lane, and cut along Holborn, and there we are in four minutes’ time, as near as a toucher. This is about a London particular NOW, ain’t it, miss?’ He seemed quite delighted with it on my account.
“就在拐角处，”古比先生说。 “我们只要沿着大法官巷（Chancery Lane）转弯，沿着霍尔本（Holborn）行驶，四分钟后我们就到了，几乎就在咫尺之遥。”这是关于伦敦现在的一个特别事件，不是吗，小姐？”他似乎对我的说法很满意。

‘The fog is very dense indeed!’ said I.
“雾确实很浓！”我说道。

‘Not that it affects you, though, I’m sure,’ said Mr. Guppy, putting up the steps. ‘On the contrary, it seems to do you good, miss, judging from your appearance.’
“不过，我确信这不会影响你，”古皮先生一边说，一边搭起台阶。 “恰恰相反，从你的外表来看，这似乎对你有好处，小姐。”

I knew he meant well in paying me this compliment, so I laughed at myself for blushing at it when he had shut the door and got upon the box; and we all three laughed and chatted about our inexperience and the strangeness of London until we turned up under an archway to our destination—a narrow street of high houses like an oblong cistern to hold the fog. There was a confused little crowd of people, principally children, gathered about the house at which we stopped, which had a tarnished brass plate on the door with the inscription JELLYBY.
我知道他向我表示这种恭维是善意的，所以当他关上门，登上箱子时，我嘲笑自己脸红了。我们三个人笑着聊起了我们的经验不足和伦敦的陌生，直到我们出现在通往目的地的拱门下——一条狭窄的街道上，高高的房屋就像一个长方形的蓄水池，可以容纳雾气。一小群困惑的人，主要是孩子，聚集在我们停下来的房子周围，门上挂着一块失去光泽的黄铜牌，上面写着“杰利比”。

‘Don’t be frightened!’ said Mr. Guppy, looking in at the coachwindow. ‘One of the young Jellybys been and got his head through the area railings!’
“别害怕！”孔雀先生看着车窗说道。 “其中一个年轻的杰利比人的头穿过了区域栏杆！”

‘Oh, poor child,’ said I; ‘let me out, if you please!’
“哦，可怜的孩子，”我说。 “请让我出去吧！”

‘Pray be careful of yourself, miss. The young Jellybys are always up to something,’ said Mr. Guppy.
“请小心一点，小姐。年轻的杰利比一家总是在搞事情，”古皮先生说。

I made my way to the poor child, who was one of the dirtiest little unfortunates I ever saw, and found him very hot and frightened and crying loudly, fixed by the neck between two iron railings, while a milkman and a beadle, with the kindest intentions possible, were endeavouring to drag him back by the legs, under a general impression that his skull was compressible by those means. As I found (after pacifying him) that he was a little boy with a naturally large head, I thought that perhaps where his head could go, his body could follow, and mentioned that the best mode of extrication might be to push him forward. This was so favourably received by the milkman and beadle that he would immediately have been pushed into the area if I had not held his pinafore while Richard and Mr. Guppy ran down through the kitchen to catch him when he should be released. At last he was happily got down without any accident, and then he began to beat Mr. Guppy with a hoop-stick in quite a frantic manner.
我走向那个可怜的孩子，他是我见过的最肮脏的小不幸之一，发现他很热，很害怕，大声哭泣，脖子被固定在两根铁栏杆之间，而一个送牛奶的人和一个执事，带着出于最善意的意图，我们试图抓住他的腿把他拖回来，因为人们普遍认为他的头骨可以用这种方法压缩。当我（安抚他后）发现他是一个小男孩，头天生就很大，我想也许他的头能走到哪里，他的身体就能跟着走，并提到最好的解救方式可能是推动他前进。这受到了送奶工和执事的欢迎，如果我没有抓住他的围裙，他会立即被推到该地区，而理查德和孔雀鱼先生则跑到厨房去抓住他，当他应该被释放时。最后，他高兴地平安无事地下来了，然后他开始用箍棒疯狂地殴打孔雀鱼先生。

Nobody had appeared belonging to the house except a person in pattens, who had been poking at the child from below with a broom; I don’t know with what object, and I don’t think she did. I therefore supposed that Mrs. Jellyby was not at home, and was quite surprised when the person appeared in the passage without the pattens, and going up to the back room on the first floor before Ada and me, announced us as, ‘Them two young ladies, Missis Jellyby!’ We passed several more children on the way up, whom it was difficult to avoid treading on in the dark; and as we came into Mrs. Jellyby’s presence, one of the poor little things fell downstairs—down a whole flight (as it sounded to me), with a great noise.
除了一个穿着帕丁斯衣服的人之外，没有任何人属于这所房子，他一直在用扫帚从下面戳孩子。我不知道她用的是什么东西，我想她也没有这么做。因此，我猜想杰利比夫人不在家，当那个人出现在过道里时，没有帕滕斯，我感到非常惊讶，并在艾达和我之前上到一楼的后面的房间，宣布我们是，“他们两个” “年轻的女士们，杰利比小姐！”我们在上山的路上又经过了几个孩子，在黑暗中很难避免踩到他们。当我们来到杰利比太太面前时，一个可怜的小东西从楼上掉了下来——掉了一整段楼梯（对我来说是这样），发出很大的响声。

Mrs. Jellyby, whose face reflected none of the uneasiness which we could not help showing in our own faces as the dear child’s head recorded its passage with a bump on every stair—Richard afterwards said he counted seven, besides one for the landing—received us with perfect equanimity. She was a pretty, very diminutive, plump woman of from forty to fifty, with handsome eyes, though they had a curious habit of seeming to look a long way off. As if—I am quoting Richard again—they could see nothing nearer than Africa!
杰利比太太的脸上没有反映出我们在自己脸上忍不住流露出的不安，因为亲爱的孩子的头在每一个楼梯上都会有一个凸起，记录着它的通过——理查德后来说，除了楼梯平台的一个之外，他数到了七——收到了。我们完全平静。她是一位漂亮、娇小、丰满的女人，年龄在四十岁到五十岁之间，有着一双英俊的眼睛，尽管它们有一种奇怪的习惯，看起来看起来很遥远。就好像——我再次引用理查德的话——他们看不到比非洲更近的东西了！

‘I am very glad indeed,’ said Mrs. Jellyby in an agreeable voice, ‘to have the pleasure of receiving you. I have a great respect for Mr. Jarndyce, and no one in whom he is interested can be an object of indifference to me.’
“我确实很高兴，”杰利比太太用一种愉快的声音说道，“很高兴接待您。我非常尊重贾迪斯先生，他感兴趣的任何人都不能成为我冷漠的对象。

We expressed our acknowledgments and sat down behind the door, where there was a lame invalid of a sofa. Mrs. Jellyby had very good hair but was too much occupied with her African duties to brush it. The shawl in which she had been loosely muffled dropped onto her chair when she advanced to us; and as she turned to resume her seat, we could not help noticing that her dress didn’t nearly meet up the back and that the open space was railed across with a lattice-work of stay-lace—like a summer-house.
我们表达了谢意，然后在门后坐下，那里有一张跛脚的沙发。杰利比夫人的头发非常好，但她忙于非洲事务，没有时间梳理头发。当她向我们走来时，她身上松松垮垮的围巾掉到了椅子上。当她转身回到座位上时，我们不禁注意到她的衣服几乎没有与后背相连，而开放的空间则用蕾丝花边的格子围起来——就像一座避暑别墅。

The room, which was strewn with papers and nearly filled by a great writing-table covered with similar litter, was, I must say, not only very untidy but very dirty. We were obliged to take notice of that with our sense of sight, even while, with our sense of hearing, we followed the poor child who had tumbled downstairs: I think into the back kitchen, where somebody seemed to stifle him.
房间里堆满了文件，一张大写字台几乎堆满了类似的垃圾，我必须说，房间不仅非常不整洁，而且非常肮脏。我们不得不用我们的视觉来注意到这一点，即使我们用我们的听觉来跟踪那个从楼上摔下来的可怜的孩子：我想到了后厨房，那里似乎有人掐死了他。

But what principally struck us was a jaded and unhealthy-looking though by no means plain girl at the writing-table, who sat biting the feather of her pen and staring at us. I suppose nobody ever was in such a state of ink. And from her tumbled hair to her pretty feet, which were disfigured with frayed and broken satin slippers trodden down at heel, she really seemed to have no article of dress upon her, from a pin upwards, that was in its proper condition or its right place.
但最让我们印象深刻的是写字台前一个疲惫不堪、面容不健康但绝不平凡的女孩，她坐在那里咬着笔毛，盯着我们看。我想没有人曾经处于这样的墨水状态。从她凌乱的头发到她那双漂亮的脚，脚后跟都被磨损、破损的缎面拖鞋踩坏了，她身上似乎真的没有一件衣服，从别针向上，是在其适当的状态或正确的状态。地方。

‘You find me, my dears,’ said Mrs. Jellyby, snuffing the two great office candles in tin candlesticks, which made the room taste strongly of hot tallow (the fire had gone out, and there was nothing in the grate but ashes, a bundle of wood, and a poker), ‘you find me, my dears, as usual, very busy; but that you will excuse. The African project at present employs my whole time. It involves me in correspondence with public bodies and with private individuals anxious for the welfare of their species all over the country. I am happy to say it is advancing. We hope by this time next year to have from a hundred and fifty to two hundred healthy families cultivating coffee and educating the natives of Borrioboola-Gha, on the left bank of the Niger.’
“你们找到我了，亲爱的，”杰利比太太说着，掐灭了锡烛台上的两支办公室大蜡烛，这让房间里弥漫着浓烈的热牛脂味道（火已经灭了，炉排里除了灰烬什么也没有，一捆木头和一根拨火棍），“亲爱的，你发现我和往常一样非常忙碌；但你会原谅的。目前非洲项目占用了我全部时间。它让我与全国各地的公共机构和渴望人类福祉的私人进行通信。我很高兴地说它正在进步。我们希望明年这个时候，有一百五十到两百个健康的家庭种植咖啡并教育尼日尔左岸博里奥布拉加哈的当地人。

As Ada said nothing, but looked at me, I said it must be very gratifying.
艾达什么也没说，只是看着我，我说这一定很欣慰。

‘It IS gratifying,’ said Mrs. Jellyby. ‘It involves the devotion of all my energies, such as they are; but that is nothing, so that it succeeds; and I am more confident of success every day. Do you know, Miss Summerson, I almost wonder that YOU never turned your thoughts to Africa.’
“这真是令人高兴，”杰利比夫人说。 “它涉及我所有的精力的奉献；但这没什么，所以它成功了；我每天都对成功更有信心。你知道吗，萨默森小姐，我几乎想知道你从来没有把心思转向非洲。

This application of the subject was really so unexpected to me that I was quite at a loss how to receive it. I hinted that the climate—
这个题目的应用真是出乎我的意料，让我不知如何接受。我暗示过气候——

‘The finest climate in the world!’ said Mrs. Jellyby.
“世界上最好的气候！”杰利比夫人说。

‘Indeed, ma’am?’
“真的吗，女士？”

‘Certainly. With precaution,’ said Mrs. Jellyby. ‘You may go into Holborn, without precaution, and be run over. You may go into Holborn, with precaution, and never be run over. Just so with Africa.’
'当然。小心谨慎，”杰利比夫人说。 “如果不采取任何预防措施，你可能会进入霍尔本，然后被碾过。你可以进入霍尔本，但要小心谨慎，永远不会被碾过。非洲也是如此。

I said, ‘No doubt.’ I meant as to Holborn.
我说：“毫无疑问。”我指的是霍尔本。

‘If you would like,’ said Mrs. Jellyby, putting a number of papers towards us, ‘to look over some remarks on that head, and on the general subject, which have been extensively circulated, while I finish a letter I am now dictating to my eldest daughter, who is my amanuensis—‘
“如果您愿意的话，”杰利比夫人将几份文件递给我们，“在我写完一封信的同时，请您看一下关于这个问题和一般主题的一些评论，这些评论已被广泛流传。”向我的大女儿，即我的抄写员口授——”

The girl at the table left off biting her pen and made a return to our recognition, which was half bashful and half sulky.
桌边的女孩停止了咬笔的动作，半是害羞半是生气地认出了我们。

‘—I shall then have finished for the present,’ proceeded Mrs. Jellyby with a sweet smile, ‘though my work is never done. Where are you, Caddy?’
“——那么我现在就完成了，”杰利比太太带着甜美的微笑继续说道，“尽管我的工作还没有完成。”你在哪里，凯迪？

‘‘Presents her compliments to Mr. Swallow, and begs—‘’ said Caddy.
“向燕子先生致意，并恳求——”凯迪说。

‘‘And begs,’’ said Mrs. Jellyby, dictating, ‘‘to inform him, in reference to his letter of inquiry on the African project—‘ No, Peepy! Not on my account!’
“并且恳求，”杰利比夫人口授道，“就他关于非洲项目的询问信而言，通知他——‘不，皮皮！不在我的账户上！

Peepy (so self-named) was the unfortunate child who had fallen downstairs, who now interrupted the correspondence by presenting himself, with a strip of plaster on his forehead, to exhibit his wounded knees, in which Ada and I did not know which to pity most— the bruises or the dirt. Mrs. Jellyby merely added, with the serene composure with which she said everything, ‘Go along, you naughty Peepy!’ and fixed her fine eyes on Africa again.
皮比（Peepy）（如此自名）是那个从楼上摔下来的不幸的孩子，他现在打断了信件，他在额头上贴了一块石膏，展示了他受伤的膝盖，艾达和我不知道该用哪个膝盖。最可惜的是——瘀伤或污垢。杰利比夫人只是用她说一切时平静的镇静补充道：“走吧，你这个顽皮的皮皮！”然后她的漂亮眼睛又盯着非洲。

However, as she at once proceeded with her dictation, and as I interrupted nothing by doing it, I ventured quietly to stop poor Peepy as he was going out and to take him up to nurse. He looked very much astonished at it and at Ada’s kissing him, but soon fell fast asleep in my arms, sobbing at longer and longer intervals, until he was quiet. I was so occupied with Peepy that I lost the letter in detail, though I derived such a general impression from it of the momentous importance of Africa, and the utter insignificance of all other places and things, that I felt quite ashamed to have thought so little about it.
然而，当她立即开始听写，而我没有打扰他时，我冒险悄悄地阻止了可怜的皮皮，因为他正要出去，并带他去吃奶。他看起来非常惊讶，也看到艾达亲吻他，但很快就在我怀里睡着了，抽泣的时间越来越长，直到他安静下来。我太专注于《皮皮》了，以至于我把这封信的细节都弄丢了，尽管我从信中得到了这样一个总体印象：非洲的重要性，以及所有其他地方和事物的微不足道，以至于我为自己这么想而感到非常羞愧。对此知之甚少。

‘Six o’clock!’ said Mrs. Jellyby. ‘And our dinner hour is nominally (for we dine at all hours) five! Caddy, show Miss Clare and Miss Summerson their rooms. You will like to make some change, perhaps? You will excuse me, I know, being so much occupied. Oh, that very bad child! Pray put him down, Miss Summerson!’
“六点钟！”杰利比太太说。 “我们的晚餐时间名义上是（因为我们随时都在用餐）五点！”凯蒂，带克莱尔小姐和萨默森小姐看看他们的房间。也许你想做出一些改变？我知道，请原谅我太忙了。唉，真是个坏孩子啊！请把他放下来，萨默森小姐！”

I begged permission to retain him, truly saying that he was not at all troublesome, and carried him upstairs and laid him on my bed. Ada and I had two upper rooms with a door of communication between. They were excessively bare and disorderly, and the curtain to my window was fastened up with a fork.
我请求允许保留他，真心实意地说他一点也不麻烦，然后把他抱到楼上，放在我的床上。艾达和我有两个楼上的房间，中间有一扇门可以沟通。它们过于光秃秃的，杂乱无章，我窗户上的窗帘是用叉子固定的。

‘You would like some hot water, wouldn’t you?’ said Miss Jellyby, looking round for a jug with a handle to it, but looking in vain.
“你想要一些热水，不是吗？”杰利比小姐说，她环顾四周寻找一个有把手的水壶，但没有找到。

‘If it is not being troublesome,’ said we.
“如果不麻烦的话。”我们说道。

‘Oh, it’s not the trouble,’ returned Miss Jellyby; ‘the question is, if there IS any.’
“哦，这不是问题，”杰利比小姐回答道。 “问题是，是否有。”

The evening was so very cold and the rooms had such a marshy smell that I must confess it was a little miserable, and Ada was half crying. We soon laughed, however, and were busily unpacking when Miss Jellyby came back to say that she was sorry there was no hot water, but they couldn’t find the kettle, and the boiler was out of order.
晚上非常寒冷，房间里充满了沼泽的气味，我必须承认这有点痛苦，艾达快要哭了。然而，我们很快就笑了，正忙着打开行李，杰利比小姐回来说她很抱歉没有热水，但他们找不到水壶，锅炉也坏了。

We begged her not to mention it and made all the haste we could to get down to the fire again. But all the little children had come up to the landing outside to look at the phenomenon of Peepy lying on my bed, and our attention was distracted by the constant apparition of noses and fingers in situations of danger between the hinges of the doors. It was impossible to shut the door of either room, for my lock, with no knob to it, looked as if it wanted to be wound up; and though the handle of Ada’s went round and round with the greatest smoothness, it was attended with no effect whatever on the door. Therefore I proposed to the children that they should come in and be very good at my table, and I would tell them the story of Little Red Riding Hood while I dressed; which they did, and were as quiet as mice, including Peepy, who awoke opportunely before the appearance of the wolf.
我们恳求她不要提起这件事，并尽快再次来到火边。但是所有的小孩子都来到外面的楼梯平台上观看皮比躺在我床上的现象，我们的注意力被不断出现在门铰链之间的危险情况下的鼻子和手指所分散。两个房间的门都关不上，因为我的锁没有把手，看上去就像是要上发条一样。尽管艾达的把手转动起来非常顺畅，但它对门没有任何影响。因此，我建议孩子们进来，在我的餐桌上表现得很好，我会一边穿衣服，一边给他们讲小红帽的故事；他们照做了，安静得像老鼠一样，包括皮比，他在狼出现之前适时地醒了过来。

When we went downstairs we found a mug with ‘A Present from Tunbridge Wells’ on it lighted up in the staircase window with a floating wick, and a young woman, with a swelled face bound up in a flannel bandage blowing the fire of the drawing-room (now connected by an open door with Mrs. Jellyby’s room) and choking dreadfully. It smoked to that degree, in short, that we all sat coughing and crying with the windows open for half an hour, during which Mrs. Jellyby, with the same sweetness of temper, directed letters about Africa. Her being so employed was, I must say, a great relief to me, for Richard told us that he had washed his hands in a pie-dish and that they had found the kettle on his dressing-table, and he made Ada laugh so that they made me laugh in the most ridiculous manner.
当我们下楼时，我们发现楼梯窗户上有一个写着“来自坦布里奇韦尔斯的礼物”的杯子，上面有一根漂浮的灯芯，还有一个年轻女子，她肿胀的脸缠着法兰绒绷带，正在吹着画上的火。 -房间（现在通过一扇开着的门与杰利比夫人的房间相连）并且窒息得可怕。简而言之，烟雾达到了这样的程度，我们都开着窗户坐在那里咳嗽和哭泣了半个小时，在此期间，杰利比夫人以同样的温和脾气，写了一些关于非洲的信。我必须说，她如此忙碌对我来说是一个很大的安慰，因为理查德告诉我们，他已经在馅饼盘里洗手了，他们在他的梳妆台上找到了水壶，他让艾达笑得很开心。他们以最可笑的方式让我发笑。

Soon after seven o’clock we went down to dinner, carefully, by Mrs. Jellyby’s advice, for the stair-carpets, besides being very deficient in stair-wires, were so torn as to be absolute traps. We had a fine cod-fish, a piece of roast beef, a dish of cutlets, and a pudding; an excellent dinner, if it had had any cooking to speak of, but it was almost raw. The young woman with the flannel bandage waited, and dropped everything on the table wherever it happened to go, and never moved it again until she put it on the stairs. The person I had seen in pattens, who I suppose to have been the cook, frequently came and skirmished with her at the door, and there appeared to be ill will between them.
七点钟过后不久，我们按照杰利比太太的建议，小心翼翼地下楼去吃晚饭，因为楼梯地毯除了没有楼梯钢丝外，还被撕破了，简直就是陷阱。我们吃了一条上等的鳕鱼、一块烤牛肉、一盘炸肉排和一份布丁。一顿丰盛的晚餐，如果有什么烹饪可言的话，但它几乎是生的。缠着法兰绒绷带的年轻女子等待着，把所有东西都扔到了桌子上，不管它去了哪里，再也没有动过，直到她把它放在楼梯上。我在彭定康见过的那个人，我猜是厨师，经常来和她在门口发生冲突，他们之间似乎有不和。

All through dinner—which was long, in consequence of such accidents as the dish of potatoes being mislaid in the coal skuttle and the handle of the corkscrew coming off and striking the young woman in the chin—Mrs. Jellyby preserved the evenness of her disposition. She told us a great deal that was interesting about Borrioboola-Gha and the natives, and received so many letters that Richard, who sat by her, saw four envelopes in the gravy at once. Some of the letters were proceedings of ladies’ committees or resolutions of ladies’ meetings, which she read to us; others were applications from people excited in various ways about the cultivation of coffee, and natives; others required answers, and these she sent her eldest daughter from the table three or four times to write. She was full of business and undoubtedly was, as she had told us, devoted to the cause.
整个晚餐时间——由于土豆盘被误放在煤斗里、开瓶器的手柄脱落并击中年轻女子的下巴等意外事件，整个晚餐时间很长——夫人。杰利比保持着平稳的性格。她告诉我们很多关于博里奥布拉-加和当地人的有趣事情，并收到了如此多的信件，以至于坐在她旁边的理查德一下子就看到了肉汁里的四个信封。有些信件是妇女委员会的议事录或妇女会议的决议，她读给我们听；有些是妇女委员会的会议记录或妇女会议的决议。其他的是对咖啡种植充满热情的人们和当地人的申请；其他人需要答案，而这些她三四次让她的大女儿从桌子上写下来。她忙于事业，而且正如她告诉我们的那样，她无疑致力于这项事业。

I was a little curious to know who a mild bald gentleman in spectacles was, who dropped into a vacant chair (there was no top or bottom in particular) after the fish was taken away and seemed passively to submit himself to Borriohoola-Gha but not to be actively interested in that settlement. As he never spoke a word, he might have been a native but for his complexion. It was not until we left the table and he remained alone with Richard that the possibility of his being Mr. Jellyby ever entered my head. But he WAS Mr. Jellyby; and a loquacious young man called Mr. Quale, with large shining knobs for temples and his hair all brushed to the back of his head, who came in the evening, and told Ada he was a philanthropist, also informed her that he called the matrimonial alliance of Mrs. Jellyby with Mr. Jellyby the union of mind and matter.
我有点好奇，一位戴眼镜的温和秃头绅士是谁，鱼被拿走后，他跌坐在一张空椅子上（特别没有顶部或底部），似乎被动地屈服于博里奥胡拉-加（Borriohoola-Gha），但不是对该和解积极感兴趣。由于他从不说话，如果不是他的肤色，他可能是当地人。直到我们离开餐桌，他单独和理查德在一起时，我才想到他是杰利比先生的可能性。但他是杰利比先生；一位名叫奎尔先生的健谈年轻人，太阳穴上戴着闪闪发亮的大旋钮，头发全部梳到脑后，他晚上来了，告诉艾达他是一位慈善家，还告诉她他称这桩婚姻为婚姻。杰利比夫人与杰利比先生的联盟——精神与物质的结合。

This young man, besides having a great deal to say for himself about Africa and a project of his for teaching the coffee colonists to teach the natives to turn piano-forte legs and establish an export trade, delighted in drawing Mrs. Jellyby out by saving, ‘I believe now, Mrs. Jellyby, you have received as many as from one hundred and fifty to two hundred letters respecting Africa in a single day, have you not?’ or, ‘If my memory does not deceive me, Mrs. Jellyby, you once mentioned that you had sent off five thousand circulars from one post-office at one time?’—always repeating Mrs. Jellyby’s answer to us like an interpreter. During the whole evening, Mr. Jellyby sat in a corner with his head against the wall as if he were subject to low spirits. It seemed that he had several times opened his mouth when alone with Richard after dinner, as if he had something on his mind, but had always shut it again, to Richard’s extreme confusion, without saying anything.
这个年轻人除了对非洲有很多话要说，还有他的一个项目——教咖啡殖民者、教当地人学会弹钢琴的双腿并建立出口贸易，他还很高兴通过储蓄来吸引杰利比夫人。 ”我相信现在，杰利比夫人，您一天之内就收到了一百五十到两百封有关非洲的信件，不是吗？”或者，“如果我的记忆没有欺骗我，杰利比夫人。杰利比，你曾经提到过你曾经从一个邮局一次发出了五千份通知？”——总是像翻译一样重复杰利比夫人的回答。整个晚上，杰利比先生坐在角落里，头靠在墙上，显得情绪低落。似乎有好几次，当他和理查德一起吃完晚饭后，他曾好几次张开嘴，好像有什么心事，但总是又闭上嘴，令理查德极为困惑，什么也没说。

Mrs. Jellyby, sitting in quite a nest of waste paper, drank coffee all the evening and dictated at intervals to her eldest daughter. She also held a discussion with Mr. Quale, of which the subject seemed to be—if I understood it—the brotherhood of humanity, and gave utterance to some beautiful sentiments. I was not so attentive an auditor as I might have wished to be, however, for Peepy and the other children came flocking about Ada and me in a corner of the drawing-room to ask for another story; so we sat down among them and told them in whispers ‘Puss in Boots’ and I don’t know what else until Mrs. Jellyby, accidentally remembering them, sent them to bed. As Peepy cried for me to take him to bed, I carried him upstairs, where the young woman with the flannel bandage charged into the midst of the little family like a dragon and overturned them into cribs.
杰利比太太坐在一堆废纸里，整个晚上都在喝咖啡，时不时地向她的大女儿口授。她还与奎尔先生进行了一次讨论，如果我理解的话，讨论的主题似乎是人类的兄弟情谊，并表达了一些美好的情感。然而，我并没有像我希望的那样专心聆听，因为皮皮和其他孩子在客厅的角落里围着艾达和我，要求听另一个故事；他们的故事很有趣。于是我们坐在他们中间，低声告诉他们“穿靴子的猫”，我不知道还能说什么，直到杰利比太太无意中想起了他们，把他们送上床睡觉。当皮比哭着要我带他上床睡觉时，我把他抱上了楼，那个缠着法兰绒绷带的年轻女人像一条龙一样冲进了这个小家庭，把他们掀成了婴儿床。

After that I occupied myself in making our room a little tidy and in coaxing a very cross fire that had been lighted to burn, which at last it did, quite brightly. On my return downstairs, I felt that Mrs. Jellyby looked down upon me rather for being so frivolous, and I was sorry for it, though at the same time I knew that I had no higher pretensions.
此后，我忙着把我们的房间收拾得整洁一点，并哄着已经点燃的交叉火苗燃烧起来，最后它确实燃烧起来了，而且非常明亮。回到楼下，我觉得杰利比太太因为我如此轻浮而瞧不起我，我为此感到抱歉，但同时我也知道我没有更高的要求。

It was nearly midnight before we found an opportunity of going to bed, and even then we left Mrs. Jellyby among her papers drinking coffee and Miss Jellyby biting the feather of her pen.
快到半夜了，我们才找到上床睡觉的机会，即便如此，我们还是把杰利比太太留在她的报纸上喝着咖啡，而杰利比小姐则咬着钢笔的羽毛。

‘What a strange house!’ said Ada when we got upstairs. ‘How curious of my cousin Jarndyce to send us here!’
“多么奇怪的房子啊！”我们上楼时艾达说道。 “我的表弟贾迪斯多么好奇把我们送到这里！”

‘My love,’ said I, ‘it quite confuses me. I want to understand it, and I can’t understand it at all.’
“亲爱的，”我说，“这让我很困惑。”我想了解它，但我根本无法了解它。

‘What?’ asked Ada with her pretty smile.
“什么？”艾达带着美丽的微笑问道。

‘All this, my dear,’ said I. ‘It MUST be very good of Mrs. Jellyby to take such pains about a scheme for the benefit of natives—and yet—Peepy and the housekeeping!’
“这一切，亲爱的，”我说，“杰利比太太为了当地人的利益而煞费苦心地制定了一个计划，这一定是非常好的——然而——皮皮和家政！”

Ada laughed and put her arm about my neck as I stood looking at the fire, and told me I was a quiet, dear, good creature and had won her heart. ‘You are so thoughtful, Esther,’ she said, ‘and yet so cheerful! And you do so much, so unpretendingly! You would make a home out of even this house.’
当我站着看着炉火时，艾达笑着用手臂搂住我的脖子，告诉我我是一个安静、可爱的好人，赢得了她的心。 “你真是太体贴了，埃丝特，”她说，“而且还那么高兴！”而你却做得如此之多，如此毫不做作！即使是这所房子，你也会成为一个家。

My simple darling! She was quite unconscious that she only praised herself and that it was in the goodness of her own heart that she made so much of me!
我单纯的亲爱的！她完全没有意识到，她只是在夸奖自己，她是出于内心的善良，才这么看重我！

‘May I ask you a question?’ said I when we had sat before the fire a little while.
“我可以问你一个问题吗？”当我们在火炉前坐了一会儿后，我说道。

‘Five hundred,’ said Ada.
“五百，”艾达说。

‘Your cousin, Mr. Jarndyce. I owe so much to him. Would you mind describing him to me?’
“你的表弟，贾迪斯先生。我欠他太多了。你介意向我描述一下他吗？

Shaking her golden hair, Ada turned her eyes upon me with such laughing wonder that I was full of wonder too, partly at her beauty, partly at her surprise.
艾达摇晃着金色的头发，用充满惊奇的笑声看着我，我也充满了惊奇，部分是因为她的美丽，部分是因为她的惊讶。

‘Esther!’ she cried.
“以斯帖！”她喊道。

‘My dear!’
'亲爱的！'

‘You want a description of my cousin Jarndyce?’
“你想了解一下我的表弟贾迪斯吗？”

‘My dear, I never saw him.’
“亲爱的，我从来没有见过他。”

‘And I never saw him!’ returned Ada.
“我从来没有见过他！”艾达回答道。

Well, to be sure!
嗯，可以肯定的是！

No, she had never seen him. Young as she was when her mama died, she remembered how the tears would come into her eyes when she spoke of him and of the noble generosity of his character, which she had said was to be trusted above all earthly things; and Ada trusted it. Her cousin Jarndyce had written to her a few months ago—‘a plain, honest letter,’ Ada said—proposing the arrangement we were now to enter on and telling her that ‘in time it might heal some of the wounds made by the miserable Chancery suit.’ She had replied, gratefully accepting his proposal. Richard had received a similar letter and had made a similar response. He HAD seen Mr. Jarndyce once, but only once, five years ago, at Winchester school. He had told Ada, when they were leaning on the screen before the fire where I found them, that he recollected him as ‘a bluff, rosy fellow.’ This was the utmost description Ada could give me.
不，她从来没有见过他。她妈妈去世时，她还很年轻，但她记得，当她谈到他和他高贵慷慨的品格时，她的眼里会流下泪水，她说他的品格比世间的一切都更值得信赖；艾达相信这一点。她的表弟贾迪斯几个月前给她写了一封信——“一封平淡而诚实的信，”艾达说——提出了我们现在要进行的安排，并告诉她“及时地它可能会治愈一些由悲惨的人造成的伤口”。 “大法官诉讼。”她回答道，感激地接受了他的提议。理查德收到过类似的信并做出了类似的回应。他曾见过贾迪斯先生一次，但只见过一次，那是五年前，在温彻斯特学校。当他们靠在我发现他们的火炉前的屏风上时，他告诉艾达，他记得他是“一个虚张声势、面色红润的家伙。”这是艾达能给我的最详尽的描述。

It set me thinking so that when Ada was asleep, I still remained before the fire, wondering and wondering about Bleak House, and wondering and wondering that yesterday morning should seem so long ago. I don’t know where my thoughts had wandered when they were recalled by a tap at the door.
这让我开始思考，当艾达睡着的时候，我仍然留在火炉前，不断地思考《荒凉山庄》，不断地思考昨天早上似乎已经是很久以前的事了。当敲门声唤起我的思绪时，我不知道我的思绪飘到了哪里。

I opened it softly and found Miss Jellyby shivering there with a broken candle in a broken candlestick in one hand and an egg-cup in the other.
我轻轻地打开门，发现杰利比小姐在那里瑟瑟发抖，一只手拿着一根破碎的烛台，另一只手拿着一个鸡蛋杯。

‘Good night!’ she said very sulkily.
“晚安！”她闷闷不乐地说。

‘Good night!’ said I.
“晚安！”我说。

‘May I come in?’ she shortly and unexpectedly asked me in the same sulky way.
“我可以进来吗？”她出乎意料地简短地用同样阴沉的方式问我。

‘Certainly,’ said I. ‘Don’t wake Miss Clare.’
“当然可以，”我说，“别吵醒克莱尔小姐。”

She would not sit down, but stood by the fire dipping her inky middle finger in the egg-cup, which contained vinegar, and smearing it over the ink stains on her face, frowning the whole time and looking very gloomy.
她不肯坐下，而是站在火边，用漆黑的中指蘸着盛着醋的鸡蛋杯，抹在脸上的墨渍上，一直皱着眉头，脸色阴沉得很。

‘I wish Africa was dead!’ she said on a sudden.
“我希望非洲死掉！”她突然说道。

I was going to remonstrate.
我正想抗议。

‘I do!’ she said ‘Don’t talk to me, Miss Summerson. I hate it and detest it. It’s a beast!’
“我愿意！”她说，“别跟我说话，萨默森小姐。我讨厌它并且厌恶它。这是一头野兽！

I told her she was tired, and I was sorry. I put my hand upon her head, and touched her forehead, and said it was hot now but would be cool tomorrow. She still stood pouting and frowning at me, but presently put down her egg-cup and turned softly towards the bed where Ada lay.
我告诉她她很累，我很抱歉。我把手放在她的头上，摸了摸她的额头，说现在很热，明天就会凉了。她仍然站在那里，撅着嘴，皱着眉头看着我，但很快就放下了鸡蛋杯，轻轻地转向艾达躺着的床。

‘She is very pretty!’ she said with the same knitted brow and in the same uncivil manner.
“她很漂亮！”她同样皱着眉头，同样不文明地说道。

I assented with a smile.
我微笑着答应了。

‘An orphan. Ain’t she?’
'一个孤儿。她不是吗？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘But knows a quantity, I suppose? Can dance, and play music, and sing? She can talk French, I suppose, and do geography, and globes, and needlework, and everything?’
“但我想知道一个数量吧？可以跳舞、演奏音乐、唱歌吗？我想她会说法语，还会做地理、地球仪、针线活等等？

‘No doubt,’ said I.
“毫无疑问，”我说。

‘I can’t,’ she returned. ‘I can’t do anything hardly, except write. I’m always writing for Ma. I wonder you two were not ashamed of yourselves to come in this afternoon and see me able to do nothing else. It was like your ill nature. Yet you think yourselves very fine, I dare say!’
“我不能，”她回答道。 “除了写作，我什么都做不了。我总是为妈妈写作。我想知道你们两个今天下午过来看到我无事可做，不感到羞耻吗？这就像你的坏本性。但我敢说，你认为自己很好！”

I could see that the poor girl was near crying, and I resumed my chair without speaking and looked at her (I hope) as mildly as I felt towards her.
我可以看到那个可怜的女孩快要哭了，我一言不发地坐回椅子上，看着她（我希望如此），就像我对她的感觉一样温和。

‘It’s disgraceful,’ she said. ‘You know it is. The whole house is disgraceful. The children are disgraceful. I’M disgraceful. Pa’s miserable, and no wonder! Priscilla drinks—she’s always drinking. It’s a great shame and a great story of you if you say you didn’t smell her today. It was as bad as a public-house, waiting at dinner; you know it was!’
“这是可耻的，”她说。 ‘你知道是这样。整个房子都丢脸了。孩子们是可耻的。我很丢脸。爸爸很痛苦，这也不足为奇！普里西拉喝酒——她总是喝酒。如果你说你今天没有闻到她的味道，那对你来说是一个巨大的耻辱，也是一个伟大的故事。这就像在一家酒馆里等待晚餐一样糟糕。你知道是这样！

‘My dear, I don’t know it,’ said I.
“亲爱的，我不知道，”我说。

‘You do,’ she said very shortly. ‘You shan’t say you don’t. You do!’
“你知道，”她简短地说。 ‘你不能说你不知道。你做！'

‘Oh, my dear!’ said I. ‘If you won’t let me speak—‘
“噢，亲爱的！”我说道，“如果你不让我说话——”

‘You’re speaking now. You know you are. Don’t tell stories, Miss Summerson.’
‘你现在说话了。你知道你是。别讲故事，萨默森小姐。”

‘My dear,’ said I, ‘as long as you won’t hear me out—‘
“亲爱的，”我说，“只要你不听我说完——”

‘I don’t want to hear you out.’
“我不想听你说完。”

‘Oh, yes, I think you do,’ said I, ‘because that would be so very unreasonable. I did not know what you tell me because the servant did not come near me at dinner; but I don’t doubt what you tell me, and I am sorry to hear it.’
“哦，是的，我想你会的，”我说，“因为那太不合理了。”我不知道你告诉我什么，因为晚餐时仆人没有靠近我；但我并不怀疑你告诉我的话，我很遗憾听到这个消息。

‘You needn’t make a merit of that,’ said she.
“你不必为此做出贡献，”她说。

‘No, my dear,’ said I. ‘That would be very foolish.’
“不，亲爱的，”我说，“那是非常愚蠢的。”

She was still standing by the bed, and now stooped down (but still with the same discontented face) and kissed Ada. That done, she came softly back and stood by the side of my chair. Her bosom was heaving in a distressful manner that I greatly pitied, but I thought it better not to speak.
她仍然站在床边，弯下腰（但仍然带着同样不满的表情）吻了艾达。说完，她轻轻地回来，站在我的椅子旁边。她的胸膛痛苦地起伏着，我非常同情，但我认为最好还是不要说话。

‘I wish I was dead!’ she broke out. ‘I wish we were all dead. It would be a great deal better for us.
“我希望我死了！”她大声说道。 ‘我希望我们都死了。这对我们来说会好很多。

In a moment afterwards, she knelt on the ground at my side, hid her face in my dress, passionately begged my pardon, and wept. I comforted her and would have raised her, but she cried no, no; she wanted to stay there!
过了一会儿，她跪在我身边的地上，把脸埋在我的衣服里，热情地请求我原谅，哭了。我安慰她并想抚养她，但她哭着不，不；她想留在那里！

‘You used to teach girls,’ she said, ‘If you could only have taught me, I could have learnt from you! I am so very miserable, and I like you so much!’
“你过去常常教女孩子，”她说，“如果你能教我，我就可以向你学习！”我好难过，我又好喜欢你！”

I could not persuade her to sit by me or to do anything but move a ragged stool to where she was kneeling, and take that, and still hold my dress in the same manner. By degrees the poor tired girl fell asleep, and then I contrived to raise her head so that it should rest on my lap, and to cover us both with shawls. The fire went out, and all night long she slumbered thus before the ashy grate. At first I was painfully awake and vainly tried to lose myself, with my eyes closed, among the scenes of the day. At length, by slow degrees, they became indistinct and mingled. I began to lose the identity of the sleeper resting on me. Now it was Ada, now one of my old Reading friends from whom I could not believe I had so recently parted. Now it was the little mad woman worn out with curtsying and smiling, now some one in authority at Bleak House. Lastly, it was no one, and I was no one.
我无法说服她坐在我身边或做任何事情，只能把一张破烂的凳子搬到她跪着的地方，拿着它，仍然以同样的方式握住我的衣服。渐渐地，可怜的疲惫的女孩睡着了，然后我设法抬起她的头，让她的头靠在我的腿上，并用披肩盖住我们俩。火灭了，她就这样在灰蒙蒙的炉栅前睡了一夜。起初，我痛苦地醒着，闭着眼睛，试图在白天的场景中迷失自己，但徒劳无功。最后，慢慢地，它们变得模糊并混在一起。我开始失去躺在我身上的睡眠者的身份。现在是艾达，现在是我的老雷丁朋友之一，我不敢相信我最近才和她分开。现在是那个因行屈膝礼和微笑而疲惫不堪的小疯女人，现在是荒凉山庄的某个权威人物。最后，没有人，我也没有人。

The purblind day was feebly struggling with the fog when I opened my eyes to encounter those of a dirty-faced little spectre fixed upon me. Peepy had scaled his crib, and crept down in his bed-gown and cap, and was so cold that his teeth were chattering as if he had cut them all.
当我睁开眼睛时，那昏暗的日子正在与雾气作斗争，我睁开眼睛，看到一个脏兮兮的小幽灵正盯着我。皮皮爬上了婴儿床，穿上睡衣，戴上帽子，爬了下来，他的牙齿格格作响，好像他把牙齿全部割掉了。

CHAPTER V
第五章


A Morning Adventure
早晨的冒险

Although the morning was raw, and although the fog still seemed heavy—I say seemed, for the windows were so encrusted with dirt that they would have made midsummer sunshine dim—I was sufficiently forewarned of the discomfort within doors at that early hour and sufficiently curious about London to think it a good idea on the part of Miss Jellyby when she proposed that we should go out for a walk.
虽然早晨天气还很冷，尽管雾气似乎仍然很重——我说是看起来，因为窗户上结满了污垢，它们会使仲夏的阳光变得暗淡——我已经充分地预先警告了在这么早的时候门内的不适，并且充分地警告了我。当杰利比小姐提议我们出去散步时，她对伦敦感到好奇，认为这是个好主意。

‘Ma won’t be down for ever so long,’ she said, ‘and then it’s a chance if breakfast’s ready for an hour afterwards, they dawdle so. As to Pa, he gets what he can and goes to the office. He never has what you would call a regular breakfast. Priscilla leaves him out the loaf and some milk, when there is any, overnight. Sometimes there isn’t any milk, and sometimes the cat drinks it. But I’m afraid you must be tired, Miss Summerson, and perhaps you would rather go to bed.’
“妈妈不会沮丧这么久，”她说，“如果一小时后早餐准备好了，那就有机会了，他们就这么磨磨蹭蹭。”至于爸爸，他尽其所能地去办公室。他从来不吃所谓的普通早餐。普里西拉把面包和牛奶（如果有的话）留给他过夜。有时没有牛奶，有时猫喝。但恐怕你一定很累了，萨默森小姐，也许你宁愿去睡觉。”

‘I am not at all tired, my dear,’ said I, ‘and would much prefer to go out.’
“我一点也不累，亲爱的，”我说，“我更愿意出去。”

‘If you’re sure you would,’ returned Miss Jellyby, ‘I’ll get my things on.’
“如果你确定愿意的话，”杰利比小姐回答道，“我就穿上衣服了。”

Ada said she would go too, and was soon astir. I made a proposal to Peepy, in default of being able to do anything better for him, that he should let me wash him and afterwards lay him down on my bed again. To this he submitted with the best grace possible, staring at me during the whole operation as if he never had been, and never could again be, so astonished in his life—looking very miserable also, certainly, but making no complaint, and going snugly to sleep as soon as it was over. At first I was in two minds about taking such a liberty, but I soon reflected that nobody in the house was likely to notice it.
艾达说她也要去，很快就动了起来。由于无法为他做更好的事情，我向皮皮提议，让我给他洗澡，然后再让他躺在我的床上。对此，他尽可能地优雅地服从了，在整个手术过程中他一直盯着我看，仿佛他一生中从来没有、也不可能再如此惊讶过——当然，看起来也很痛苦，但没有抱怨，然后就走了。结束后就舒舒服服地睡觉了。起初，我对如此随意的做法犹豫不决，但很快我就意识到，家里可能没有人注意到这一点。

What with the bustle of dispatching Peepy and the bustle of getting myself ready and helping Ada, I was soon quite in a glow. We found Miss Jellyby trying to warm herself at the fire in the writingroom, which Priscilla was then lighting with a smutty parlour candlestick, throwing the candle in to make it burn better. Everything was just as we had left it last night and was evidently intended to remain so. Below-stairs the dinner-cloth had not been taken away, but had been left ready for breakfast. Crumbs, dust, and waste-paper were all over the house. Some pewter pots and a milk-can hung on the area railings; the door stood open; and we met the cook round the corner coming out of a public-house, wiping her mouth. She mentioned, as she passed us, that she had been to see what o’clock it was.
忙着赶走皮皮，忙着做好准备并帮助艾达，我很快就变得神采飞扬。我们发现杰利比小姐正试图在写作室的火旁取暖，普里西拉当时用一个肮脏的客厅烛台点燃了火，把蜡烛扔进去，让它燃烧得更好。一切都和我们昨晚离开时一样，而且显然打算保持这样。楼下的餐巾并没有被拿走，而是留着准备吃早餐。房子里到处都是面包屑、灰尘和废纸。栏杆上挂着一些锡锅和一个牛奶罐；门开着。我们在拐角处遇见了从一家酒馆出来的厨师，她正在擦嘴。当她经过我们时，她提到她是来看看现在几点了。

But before we met the cook, we met Richard, who was dancing up and down Thavies Inn to warm his feet. He was agreeably surprised to see us stirring so soon and said he would gladly share our walk. So he took care of Ada, and Miss Jellyby and I went first. I may mention that Miss Jellyby had relapsed into her sulky manner and that I really should not have thought she liked me much unless she had told me so.
但在我们见到厨师之前，我们遇到了理查德，他正在塔维斯旅馆里跳舞来暖脚。看到我们这么快就动起来，他感到非常惊讶，并说他很乐意和我们一起散步。所以他照顾艾达，杰利比小姐和我先走。我可以提一下，杰利比小姐又恢复了她那种闷闷不乐的态度，除非她告诉我，否则我真的不应该认为她很喜欢我。

‘Where would you wish to go?’ she asked.
“你想去哪里？”她问道。

‘Anywhere, my dear,’ I replied.
“无论在哪里，亲爱的，”我回答道。

‘Anywhere’s nowhere,’ said Miss Jellyby, stopping perversely.
“无处可去，”杰利比小姐乖乖地停下来说道。

‘Let us go somewhere at any rate,’ said I.
“无论如何，我们去某个地方吧，”我说。

She then walked me on very fast.
然后她很快就带着我走了。

‘I don’t care!’ she said. ‘Now, you are my witness, Miss Summerson, I say I don’t care-but if he was to come to our house with his great, shining, lumpy forehead night after night till he was as old as Methuselah, I wouldn’t have anything to say to him. Such ASSES as he and Ma make of themselves!’
“我不在乎！”她说。 “现在，你是我的证人，萨默森小姐，我说我不在乎——但如果他夜复一夜地带着他那巨大、闪亮、凹凸不平的额头来到我们家，直到他像玛士撒拉一样老，我也不会”没什么可对他说的。他和妈妈都把自己当成蠢货了！

‘My dear!’ I remonstrated, in allusion to the epithet and the vigorous emphasis Miss Jellyby set upon it. ‘Your duty as a child—‘
“亲爱的！”我抗议道，暗指这个绰号以及杰利比小姐对它的大力强调。 “你作为一个孩子的责任——”

‘Oh! Don’t talk of duty as a child, Miss Summerson; where’s Ma’s duty as a parent? All made over to the public and Africa, I suppose! Then let the public and Africa show duty as a child; it’s much more their affair than mine. You are shocked, I dare say! Very well, so am I shocked too; so we are both shocked, and there’s an end of it!’
'哦！萨默森小姐，不要谈论小时候的责任；马云作为父母的责任在哪里？我想，一切都交给了公众和非洲！然后让公众和非洲像孩子一样履行义务；这更多是他们的事而不是我的事。我敢说你很震惊！很好，我也很震惊；所以我们都感到震惊，事情就这样结束了！”

She walked me on faster yet.
她带我走得更快了。

‘But for all that, I say again, he may come, and come, and come, and I won’t have anything to say to him. I can’t bear him. If there’s any stuff in the world that I hate and detest, it’s the stuff he and Ma talk. I wonder the very paving-stones opposite our house can have the patience to stay there and be a witness of such inconsistencies and contradictions as all that sounding nonsense, and Ma’s management!’
“但尽管如此，我再说一遍，他可能会来，来，来，而我不会对他说什么。”我受不了他。如果说世界上有什么是我讨厌和厌恶的，那就是他和妈妈谈论的事情。我不知道我们家对面的铺路石能有耐心留在那里，见证这些看似无稽之谈的不一致和矛盾，以及马云的管理！

I could not but understand her to refer to Mr. Quale, the young gentleman who had appeared after dinner yesterday. I was saved the disagreeable necessity of pursuing the subject by Richard and Ada coming up at a round pace, laughing and asking us if we meant to run a race. Thus interrupted, Miss Jellyby became silent and walked moodily on at my side while I admired the long successions and varieties of streets, the quantity of people already going to and fro, the number of vehicles passing and repassing, the busy preparations in the setting forth of shop windows and the sweeping out of shops, and the extraordinary creatures in rags secretly groping among the swept-out rubbish for pins and other refuse.
我不能不理解她指的是奎尔先生，昨天晚饭后出现的那位年轻绅士。理查德和艾达齐步走来，笑着问我们是否要参加一场比赛，这让我省去了继续讨论这个话题的麻烦。就这样被打断了，杰利比小姐沉默了，心情郁闷地走在我身边，而我则欣赏着那绵长、各异的街道、来来往往的人流、来来往往的车辆、出发前忙碌的准备工作。商店橱窗和商店的清扫，以及衣衫褴褛的非凡生物在清扫出来的垃圾中偷偷摸索，寻找别针和其他垃圾。

‘So, cousin,’ said the cheerful voice of Richard to Ada behind me. ‘We are never to get out of Chancery! We have come by another way to our place of meeting yesterday, and—by the Great Seal, here’s the old lady again!’
“那么，表弟，”理查德用欢快的声音对我身后的艾达说道。 “我们永远不能离开法庭！”我们昨天从另一条路来到了聚会地点，而且——以国玺的名义，老太太又来了！”

Truly, there she was, immediately in front of us, curtsying, and smiling, and saying with her yesterday’s air of patronage, ‘The wards in Jarndyce! Ve-ry happy, I am sure!’
确实，她就在那儿，就在我们面前，行屈膝礼，微笑着，用她昨天的庇护神态说道：“詹迪斯的病房！”非常高兴，我确信！

‘You are out early, ma’am,’ said I as she curtsied to me.
“你出去得很早，女士。”当她向我行屈膝礼时，我说道。

‘Ye-es! I usually walk here early. Before the court sits. It’s retired. I collect my thoughts here for the business of the day,’ said the old lady mincingly. ‘The business of the day requires a great deal of thought. Chancery justice is so ve-ry difficult to follow.’
‘是啊！我通常很早就步行到这里。开庭前。它已经退休了。 “我在这里收集我的想法是为了今天的事情。”老太太装腔作势地说。 “当今的事务需要大量的思考。衡平法院的司法是如此难以遵循。

‘Who’s this, Miss Summerson?’ whispered Miss Jellyby, drawing my arm tighter through her own.
“萨默森小姐，这是谁？”杰利比小姐低声问道，同时把我的手臂拉得更紧。

The little old lady’s hearing was remarkably quick. She answered for herself directly.
小老太太的听力出奇的快。她直接回答了自己。

‘A suitor, my child. At your service. I have the honour to attend court regularly. With my documents. Have I the pleasure of addressing another of the youthful parties in Jarndyce?’ said the old lady, recovering herself, with her head on one side, from a very low curtsy.
“一个追求者，我的孩子。乐意效劳。我有幸定期出庭。和我的文件。 “我有幸在加迪斯的另一场年轻聚会上发表讲话吗？”老妇人从一个非常低的屈膝礼中恢复过来，头偏向一侧，说道。

Richard, anxious to atone for his thoughtlessness of yesterday, good-naturedly explained that Miss Jellyby was not connected with the suit.
理查德急于弥补昨天的粗心，善意地解释说杰利比小姐与这起诉讼无关。

‘Ha!’ said the old lady. ‘She does not expect a judgment? She will still grow old. But not so old. Oh, dear, no! This is the garden of Lincoln’s Inn. I call it my garden. It is quite a bower in the summer-time. Where the birds sing melodiously. I pass the greater part of the long vacation here. In contemplation. You find the long vacation exceedingly long, don’t you?’
“哈！”老太太说。 ‘她不期待审判吗？她还是会变老。但没那么老。哦，亲爱的，不！这是林肯旅馆的花园。我称它为我的花园。夏天的时候，这里真是一个凉亭。那里，鸟儿悠扬地歌唱。我的长假的大部分时间都是在这里度过的。沉思中。你觉得这个长假太长了，不是吗？

We said yes, as she seemed to expect us to say so.
我们答应了，因为她似乎希望我们这么说。

‘When the leaves are falling from the trees and there are no more flowers in bloom to make up into nosegays for the Lord Chancellor’s court,’ said the old lady, ‘the vacation is fulfilled and the sixth seal, mentioned in the Revelations, again prevails. Pray come and see my lodging. It will be a good omen for me. Youth, and hope, and beauty are very seldom there. It is a long, long time since I had a visit from either.’
“当树叶从树上落下，不再有鲜花盛开，为大法官的宫廷装饰花束时，”老太太说，“假期就结束了，《启示录》中提到的第六印再次出现。占上风。请来看看我的住处。这对我来说将是一个好兆头。青春、希望、美丽都很少见。我已经很久很久没有来过他们了。”

She had taken my hand, and leading me and Miss Jellyby away, beckoned Richard and Ada to come too. I did not know how to excuse myself and looked to Richard for aid. As he was half amused and half curious and all in doubt how to get rid of the old lady without offence, she continued to lead us away, and he and Ada continued to follow, our strange conductress informing us all the time, with much smiling condescension, that she lived close by.
她拉着我的手，领着我和杰利比小姐离开，示意理查德和艾达也来。我不知道如何为自己辩解，只好向理查德寻求帮助。他半是觉得好笑，半是好奇，心里疑惑着怎样才能不冒犯到老太太，她继续领着我们离开，他和艾达继续跟在后面，我们奇怪的售票员一直面带微笑地告诉我们。居高临下，她住在附近。

It was quite true, as it soon appeared. She lived so close by that we had not time to have done humouring her for a few moments before she was at home. Slipping us out at a little side gate, the old lady stopped most unexpectedly in a narrow back street, part of some courts and lanes immediately outside the wall of the inn, and said, ‘This is my lodging. Pray walk up!’
这是千真万确的，很快就显现出来了。她住得很近，以至于我们在她回家之前都没有时间逗她玩。老太太带我们从一个小侧门出去，出人意料地在一条狭窄的后街停下来，那里是旅馆墙外的一些庭院和小巷的一部分，她说：“这是我的住处。”祈祷走起来！

She had stopped at a shop over which was written KROOK, RAG AND BOTTLE WAREHOUSE. Also, in long thin letters, KROOK, DEALER IN MARINE STORES. In one part of the window was a picture of a red paper mill at which a cart was unloading a quantity of sacks of old rags. In another was the inscription BONES BOUGHT. In another, KITCHEN-STUFF BOUGHT. In another, OLD IRON BOUGHT. In another, WASTE-PAPER BOUGHT. In another, LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S WARDROBES BOUGHT. Everything seemed to be bought and nothing to be sold there. In all parts of the window were quantities of dirty bottles—blacking bottles, medicine bottles, ginger-beer and sodawater bottles, pickle bottles, wine bottles, ink bottles; I am reminded by mentioning the latter that the shop had in several little particulars the air of being in a legal neighbourhood and of being, as it were, a dirty hanger-on and disowned relation of the law. There were a great many ink bottles. There was a little tottering bench of shabby old volumes outside the door, labelled ‘Law Books, all at 9d.’ Some of the inscriptions I have enumerated were written in law-hand, like the papers I had seen in Kenge and Carboy’s office and the letters I had so long received from the firm. Among them was one, in the same writing, having nothing to do with the business of the shop, but announcing that a respectable man aged forty-five wanted engrossing or copying to execute with neatness and dispatch: Address to Nemo, care of Mr. Krook, within. There were several second-hand bags, blue and red, hanging up. A little way within the shop-door lay heaps of old crackled parchment scrolls and discoloured and dog’s-eared law-papers. I could have fancied that all the rusty keys, of which there must have been hundreds huddled together as old iron, had once belonged to doors of rooms or strong chests in lawyers’ offices. The litter of rags tumbled partly into and partly out of a one-legged wooden scale, hanging without any counterpoise from a beam, might have been counsellors’ bands and gowns torn up. One had only to fancy, as Richard whispered to Ada and me while we all stood looking in, that yonder bones in a corner, piled together and picked very clean, were the bones of clients, to make the picture complete.
她在一家商店前停了下来，上面写着“克鲁克、抹布和瓶子仓库”。另外，用又长又细的字母写着“KROOK，海事商店经销商”。窗户的一部分是一张红色造纸厂的照片，那里一辆推车正在卸下一袋袋旧破布。另一张纸上刻着“骨头买了”的字样。在另一个地方，买了厨房用品。在另一个地方，买了旧铁。在另一个地方，买了废纸。另一个是女士和男士的衣柜。那里似乎什么都买了，什么都卖不了。橱窗里到处都是脏瓶子——黑醋瓶、药瓶、姜汁汽水瓶、泡菜瓶、酒瓶、墨水瓶；提到后者让我想起，这家商店在几个小细节上给人一种合法邻居的感觉，而且可以说是一个肮脏的依附者和不承认的法律关系。有很多墨水瓶。门外有一张摇摇欲坠的小长凳，上面放着破旧的旧书，上面写着“法律书籍，全部是 9d。”我列举的一些铭文是用法律手写的，就像我在 Kenge 和 Carboy 的办公室看到的文件一样。我很久以来就收到了这家公司的来信。其中有一篇文章，在同一篇文章中，与商店的业务无关，但宣布一位四十五岁的受人尊敬的男人想要全神贯注或复制，以整齐而迅速地执行：给尼莫的地址，由尼莫先生照顾。克鲁克，在里面。挂着几个二手包，有蓝色的，有红色的。店门口不远的地方堆放着一堆堆破旧的、有裂纹的羊皮纸卷轴和褪色、折角的法律文件。 我本可以想象所有生锈的钥匙（其中肯定有数百把像旧铁一样挤在一起）曾经属于房间的门或律师办公室的坚固的箱子。这堆破布部分掉进了一块单腿木秤上，一部分掉了出来，木秤悬挂在横梁上，没有任何平衡，可能是辅导员的带子和撕碎的长袍。当理查德对艾达和我小声说话时，我们都站着往里看，人们只需想象一下，角落里的骨头堆在一起，捡得非常干净，是客户的骨头，使这幅画变得完整。

As it was still foggy and dark, and as the shop was blinded besides by the wall of Lincoln’s Inn, intercepting the light within a couple of yards, we should not have seen so much but for a lighted lantern that an old man in spectacles and a hairy cap was carrying about in the shop. Turning towards the door, he now caught sight of us. He was short, cadaverous, and withered, with his head sunk sideways between his shoulders and the breath issuing in visible smoke from his mouth as if he were on fire within. His throat, chin, and eyebrows were so frosted with white hairs and so gnarled with veins and puckered skin that he looked from his breast upward like some old root in a fall of snow.
由于天色还很暗，雾蒙蒙的，而且商店被林肯旅馆的墙挡住了，几码之内的光线被挡住了，如果不是一个戴着眼镜的老人和一个点燃的灯笼，我们本不应该看到这么多。店里随身带着一顶毛茸茸的帽子。他转向门口，看到了我们。他身材矮小，面色苍白，面容枯槁，头侧向两肩之间，呼吸时从嘴里冒出明显的烟雾，仿佛体内着火。他的喉咙、下巴和眉毛都长满了白毛，静脉曲张，皮肤皱起，从胸口往上看，就像雪中的老树根。

‘Hi, hi!’ said the old man, coming to the door. ‘Have you anything to sell?’
“嗨，嗨！”老人走到门口说道。 “你有什么东西要卖吗？”

We naturally drew back and glanced at our conductress, who had been trying to open the house-door with a key she had taken from her pocket, and to whom Richard now said that as we had had the pleasure of seeing where she lived, we would leave her, being pressed for time. But she was not to be so easily left. She became so fantastically and pressingly earnest in her entreaties that we would walk up and see her apartment for an instant, and was so bent, in her harmless way, on leading me in, as part of the good omen she desired, that I (whatever the others might do) saw nothing for it but to comply. I suppose we were all more or less curious; at any rate, when the old man added his persuasions to hers and said, ‘Aye, aye! Please her! It won’t take a minute! Come in, come in! Come in through the shop if t’other door’s out of order!’ we all went in, stimulated by Richard’s laughing encouragement and relying on his protection.
我们自然地退后一步，看了看我们的女售票员，她一直试图用从口袋里掏出的钥匙打开房门，理查德现在对她说，因为我们很高兴看到她住的地方，所以我们由于时间紧迫，他会离开她。但她不会这么轻易就被抛弃。她的恳求变得如此奇特而迫切，以至于我们会走上去看看她的公寓，她一心一意地以她无害的方式带我进去，作为她所希望的好兆头的一部分，我（无论其他人可能做什么）除了遵守之外别无他法。我想我们或多或少都感到好奇；无论如何，当老人把他的劝说加入到她的观点中并说道：“是的，是的！”请她吧！不会花一分钟的时间！进来吧，进来吧！如果‘另一扇门坏了，就从商店进来！’我们都进去了，理查德的笑声鼓励激励着我们，并依靠他的保护。

‘My landlord, Krook,’ said the little old lady, condescending to him from her lofty station as she presented him to us. ‘He is called among the neighbours the Lord Chancellor. His shop is called the Court of Chancery. He is a very eccentric person. He is very odd. Oh, I assure you he is very odd!’
“我的房东，克鲁克，”小老太太在将他介绍给我们时，站在崇高的地位上居高临下地向他说道。 “邻居们称他为大法官。他的店名叫大法官法庭。他是一个非常古怪的人。他很奇怪。哦，我向你保证他很奇怪！

She shook her head a great many times and tapped her forehead with her finger to express to us that we must have the goodness to excuse him, ‘For he is a little—you know—M!’ said the old lady with great stateliness. The old man overheard, and laughed.
她多次摇头，并用手指敲着额头，向我们表示我们必须善意地原谅他，“因为他是个小——你知道——M！”老太太非常庄严地说。老者听了，哈哈大笑。

‘It’s true enough,’ he said, going before us with the lantern, ‘that they call me the lord chancellor and call my shop Chancery. And why do you think they call me the Lord Chancellor and my shop Chancery?’
“确实如此，”他提着灯笼走到我们面前，说道，“他们称我为大法官，称我的商店为大法官办公室。”你认为他们为什么称我为大法官和我的办公室？

‘I don’t know, I am sure!’ said Richard rather carelessly.
“我不知道，但我确定！”理查德漫不经心地说。

‘You see,’ said the old man, stopping and turning round, ‘they—Hi! Here’s lovely hair! I have got three sacks of ladies’ hair below, but none so beautiful and fine as this. What colour, and what texture!’
“你看，”老人停下来转过身来说道，“他们——嗨！这是可爱的头发！我下面有三袋女士的头发，但没有一个像这一样美丽和精致。什么颜色，什么质地！

‘That’ll do, my good friend!’ said Richard, strongly disapproving of his having drawn one of Ada’s tresses through his yellow hand. ‘You can admire as the rest of us do without taking that liberty.’
“那就行了，我的好朋友！”理查德说，强烈反对他用黄色的手画出艾达的一缕头发。 “你可以像我们其他人一样欣赏，但不必冒昧。”

The old man darted at him a sudden look which even called my attention from Ada, who, startled and blushing, was so remarkably beautiful that she seemed to fix the wandering attention of the little old lady herself. But as Ada interposed and laughingly said she could only feel proud of such genuine admiration, Mr. Krook shrunk into his former self as suddenly as he had leaped out of it.
老人突然朝他看了一眼，甚至把我的注意力从艾达身上吸引了过来，艾达吓了一跳，脸红了，她是如此美丽，似乎自己也吸引了这位小老太太的注意力。但当艾达插话并笑着说她只能为这种真诚的钦佩感到自豪时，克鲁克先生突然又缩回了以前的自己，就像他跳出来一样。

‘You see, I have so many things here,’ he resumed, holding up the lantern, ‘of so many kinds, and all as the neighbours think (but THEY know nothing), wasting away and going to rack and ruin, that that’s why they have given me and my place a christening. And I have so many old parchmentses and papers in my stock. And I have a liking for rust and must and cobwebs. And all’s fish that comes to my net. And I can’t abear to part with anything I once lay hold of (or so my neighbours think, but what do THEY know?) or to alter anything, or to have any sweeping, nor scouring, nor cleaning, nor repairing going on about me. That’s the way I’ve got the ill name of Chancery. I don’t mind. I go to see my noble and learned brother pretty well every day, when he sits in the Inn. He don’t notice me, but I notice him. There’s no great odds betwixt us. We both grub on in a muddle. Hi, Lady Jane!’
“你看，我这里有很多东西，”他举起灯笼继续说道，“种类繁多，全都像邻居们所想的那样（但他们一无所知），都在浪费，即将被架子毁坏，那就是为什么他们给我和我的地方举行洗礼。我的库存里还有很多旧羊皮纸和纸张。我喜欢铁锈、葡萄汁和蜘蛛网。所有的鱼都来到我的网里。我无法忍受放弃我曾经拥有的任何东西（至少我的邻居是这么想的，但他们知道什么？）或改变任何东西，或进行任何清扫、擦洗、清洁或修理工作。关于我。这就是我得到大法官办公室这个恶名的原因。我不介意。当我的高贵而博学的​​兄弟坐在客栈里时，我每天都会去拜访他。他没有注意到我，但我注意到了他。我们之间的胜算并不大。我们俩都糊里糊涂地吃着。嗨，简女士！’

A large grey cat leaped from some neighbouring shelf on his shoulder and startled us all.
一只大灰猫从邻近的架子上跳到他的肩膀上，吓了我们一跳。

‘Hi! Show ‘em how you scratch. Hi! Tear, my lady!’ said her master.
'你好！向他们展示你是如何抓挠的。你好！泪水，我的女士！”她的主人说道。

The cat leaped down and ripped at a bundle of rags with her tigerish claws, with a sound that it set my teeth on edge to hear.
猫跳下来，用虎爪撕扯一捆破布，发出的声音让我牙痒痒。

‘She’d do as much for any one I was to set her on,’ said the old man. ‘I deal in cat-skins among other general matters, and hers was offered to me. It’s a very fine skin, as you may see, but I didn’t have it stripped off! THAT warn’t like Chancery practice though, says you!’
“我让她对任何一个人，她都会做同样多的事，”老人说。 “我经营猫皮和其他一般物品，而她的则提供给了我。正如你所看到的，这是一个非常好的皮肤，但我没有把它剥掉！你说，这不像大法官办公室的做法！

He had by this time led us across the shop, and now opened a door in the back part of it, leading to the house-entry. As he stood with his hand upon the lock, the little old lady graciously observed to him before passing out, ‘That will do, Krook. You mean well, but are tiresome. My young friends are pressed for time. I have none to spare myself, having to attend court very soon. My young friends are the wards in Jarndyce.’
这时他已经带我们穿过商店，现在打开了商店后面的一扇门，通向房屋入口。当他把手放在锁上时，小老太太在昏倒前亲切地对他说：“就这样吧，克鲁克。”你的本意是好的，但是很累人。我的年轻朋友们时间紧迫。我已经无暇顾及自己了，很快就要出庭了。我的年轻朋友们是加迪斯的受监护人。”

‘Jarndyce!’ said the old man with a start.
“贾迪斯！”老人吃了一惊。

‘Jarndyce and Jarndyce. The great suit, Krook,’ returned his lodger.
‘加迪斯和加迪斯。克鲁克，这套衣服很棒。”他的房客回答道。

‘Hi!’ exclaimed the old man in a tone of thoughtful amazement and with a wider stare than before. ‘Think of it!’
“嗨！”老人用一种深思熟虑的惊讶语气喊道，目光比以前更加开阔。 “想想看！”

He seemed so rapt all in a moment and looked so curiously at us that Richard said, ‘Why, you appear to trouble yourself a good deal about the causes before your noble and learned brother, the other Chancellor!’
他似乎一下子全神贯注，好奇地看着我们，理查德说：“为什么，你似乎在你高贵而博学的​​兄弟，另一位总理面前为这些事情烦恼了很多！”

‘Yes,’ said the old man abstractedly. ‘Sure! YOUR name now will be—‘
“是的。”老人心不在焉地说。 '当然！现在你的名字将是——‘

‘Richard Carstone.’
“理查德·卡斯顿。”

‘Carstone,’ he repeated, slowly checking off that name upon his forefinger; and each of the others he went on to mention upon a separate finger. ‘Yes. There was the name of Barbary, and the name of Clare, and the name of Dedlock, too, I think.’
“卡斯通，”他重复道，慢慢地用食指勾掉这个名字。他接着用一根单独的手指提到了其他每一个。 '是的。我想，其中有巴巴里（Barbary）的名字，克莱尔（Clare）的名字，还有戴德洛克（Dedlock）的名字。

‘He knows as much of the cause as the real salaried Chancellor!’ said Richard, quite astonished, to Ada and me.
“他对这个事业的了解和真正的拿薪水的财政大臣一样多！”理查德非常惊讶地对艾达和我说道。

‘Aye!’ said the old man, coming slowly out of his abstraction. ‘Yes! Tom Jarndyce—you’ll excuse me, being related; but he was never known about court by any other name, and was as well known there as—she is now,’ nodding slightly at his lodger. ‘Tom Jarndyce was often in here. He got into a restless habit of strolling about when the cause was on, or expected, talking to the little shopkeepers and telling ‘em to keep out of Chancery, whatever they did. ‘For,’ says he, ‘it’s being ground to bits in a slow mill; it’s being roasted at a slow fire; it’s being stung to death by single bees; it’s being drowned by drops; it’s going mad by grains.’ He was as near making away with himself, just where the young lady stands, as near could be.’
“是啊！”老人说，慢慢地从恍惚中清醒过来。 '是的！汤姆·贾迪斯——请原谅我，因为有亲戚关系；但他在法庭上从未以任何其他名字为人所知，并且在那里和她现在一样出名。”对他的房客轻轻点头。 “汤姆·贾迪斯经常来这里。他养成了一个焦躁不安的习惯，每当事情发生或预期发生时，他就会四处闲逛，与小店主交谈，告诉他们无论做什么，都不要进入大法官办公室。 “因为，”他说，“它正在慢速磨机中被磨成碎片；正在用文火烘烤；被单只蜜蜂蜇死；它被水滴淹没； “它快要疯了。”他就在那位年轻女士所站的地方，差点儿就逃走了。”

We listened with horror.
我们惊恐地听着。

‘He come in at the door,’ said the old man, slowly pointing an imaginary track along the shop, ‘on the day he did it—the whole neighbourhood had said for months before that he would do it, of a certainty sooner or later—he come in at the door that day, and walked along there, and sat himself on a bench that stood there, and asked me (you’ll judge I was a mortal sight younger then) to fetch him a pint of wine. ‘For,’ says he, ‘Krook, I am much depressed; my cause is on again, and I think I’m nearer judgment than I ever was.’ I hadn’t a mind to leave him alone; and I persuaded him to go to the tavern over the way there, t’other side my lane (I mean Chancery Lane); and I followed and looked in at the window, and saw him, comfortable as I thought, in the arm-chair by the fire, and company with him. I hadn’t hardly got back here when I heard a shot go echoing and rattling right away into the inn. I ran out—neighbours ran out—twenty of us cried at once, ‘Tom Jarndyce!’’
“他从门口进来，”老人慢慢地指着店里一条想象中的轨道说道，“就在他这么做的那天——几个月前，整个邻居都在说他会这么做，肯定早晚会这么做。”后来——那天他从门口进来，沿着那儿走，坐在那儿的一张长凳上，请我（你会认为我当时比凡人年轻多了）给他拿一品脱酒。 “因为，”他说，“克鲁克，我很沮丧；我的事业又开始了，我想我比以往任何时候都更接近审判了。我说服他去那边的小酒馆，在我的小巷（我指的是大法官巷）的另一边。我跟着向窗外望去，看到他坐在火炉边的扶手椅上，和他在一起，正如我想象的那样舒服。我刚回到这里，就听到一声枪响，立即回荡在旅馆里。我跑了出去——邻居也跑了出去——我们二十个人同时喊道：“汤姆·贾迪斯！”

The old man stopped, looked hard at us, looked down into the lantern, blew the light out, and shut the lantern up.
老人停了下来，狠狠地看了我们一眼，低头看着灯笼，吹灭了灯，然后把灯笼关上了。

‘We were right, I needn’t tell the present hearers. Hi! To be sure, how the neighbourhood poured into court that afternoon while the cause was on! How my noble and learned brother, and all the rest of ‘em, grubbed and muddled away as usual and tried to look as if they hadn’t heard a word of the last fact in the case or as if they had—Oh, dear me!—nothing at all to do with it if they had heard of it by any chance!’
‘我们是对的，我不需要告诉在场的听众。你好！可以肯定的是，那天下午，当诉讼正在进行时，邻居们涌入法庭！我高贵而博学的​​兄弟，以及其他所有人，像往常一样，摸索着，糊里糊涂地走着，试图表现得好像他们没有听到案件的最后一个事实，或者好像他们已经听到了——哦，亲爱的我！——如果他们碰巧听说过这件事，那根本就没有关系！”

Ada’s colour had entirely left her, and Richard was scarcely less pale. Nor could I wonder, judging even from my emotions, and I was no party in the suit, that to hearts so untried and fresh it was a shock to come into the inheritance of a protracted misery, attended in the minds of many people with such dreadful recollections. I had another uneasiness, in the application of the painful story to the poor half-witted creature who had brought us there; but, to my surprise, she seemed perfectly unconscious of that and only led the way upstairs again, informing us with the toleration of a superior creature for the infirmities of a common mortal that her landlord was ‘a little M, you know!’
艾达的脸色完全消失了，理查德的脸色也同样苍白。即使从我的情绪来看，我也不奇怪，对于如此未经尝试和新鲜的心来说，继承一种长期的痛苦是令人震惊的，而且我不是诉讼的当事人，在许多人的心中都有这样的痛苦。可怕的回忆。当我把这个痛苦的故事应用到那个把我们带到那里的可怜的傻瓜身上时，我还有另一种不安。但令我惊讶的是，她似乎完全没有意识到这一点，只是又带路上楼，以一种上等生物对普通凡人的虚弱的宽容来告诉我们，她的房东是“一个小M，你知道！”

She lived at the top of the house, in a pretty large room, from which she had a glimpse of Lincoln’s Inn Hall. This seemed to have been her principal inducement, originally, for taking up her residence there. She could look at it, she said, in the night, especially in the moonshine. Her room was clean, but very, very bare. I noticed the scantiest necessaries in the way of furniture; a few old prints from books, of Chancellors and barristers, wafered against the wall; and some half-dozen reticles and work-bags, ‘containing documents,’ as she informed us. There were neither coals nor ashes in the grate, and I saw no articles of clothing anywhere, nor any kind of food. Upon a shelf in an open cupboard were a plate or two, a cup or two, and so forth, but all dry and empty. There was a more affecting meaning in her pinched appearance, I thought as I looked round, than I had understood before.
她住在房子的顶层，一间相当大的房间，从那里她可以瞥见林肯旅馆大厅。最初，这似乎是她在那里定居的主要动机。她说，她可以在晚上看它，尤其是在月光下。她的房间很干净，但是非常非常空旷。我注意到家具方面的必需品很少。墙上贴着一些关于大法官和大律师的旧书印刷品；还有六张标线和工作袋，正如她告诉我们的那样，“里面装着文件”。炉排里既没有煤炭，也没有灰烬，我也没有看到任何衣服，也没有看到任何食物。开放式橱柜的架子上放着一两个盘子、一两个杯子等等，但都干燥且空空如也。当我环顾四周时，我想，她那紧绷的表情比我以前所理解的更感人。

‘Extremely honoured, I am sure,’ said our poor hostess with the greatest suavity, ‘by this visit from the wards in Jarndyce. And very much indebted for the omen. It is a retired situation. Considering. I am limited as to situation. In consequence of the necessity of attending on the Chancellor. I have lived here many years. I pass my days in court, my evenings and my nights here. I find the nights long, for I sleep but little and think much. That is, of course, unavoidable, being in Chancery. I am sorry I cannot offer chocolate. I expect a judgment shortly and shall then place my establishment on a superior footing. At present, I don’t mind confessing to the wards in Jarndyce (in strict confidence) that I sometimes find it difficult to keep up a genteel appearance. I have felt the cold here. I have felt something sharper than cold. It matters very little. Pray excuse the introduction of such mean topics.’
“我确信，”我们可怜的女主人非常和蔼地说，“来自贾迪斯病房的这次访问。”非常感谢这个预兆。这是一个退休的情况。考虑到。我的情况有限。由于必须出席总理会议。我在这里住了很多年了。我在法庭上度过了白天，晚上和夜晚都在这里度过。我觉得夜晚很漫长，因为我睡得很少，却想得很多。当然，在大法官办公室，这是不可避免的。很抱歉我不能提供巧克力。我预计很快就会有判决，然后将使我的机构处于更有利的地位。目前，我不介意向加迪斯的病房坦白（严格保密），我有时发现很难保持优雅的外表。我已经感受到这里的寒冷了。我感受到了比寒冷更强烈的感觉。这无关紧要。请原谅引入如此刻薄的话题。

She partly drew aside the curtain of the long, low garret window and called our attention to a number of bird-cages hanging there, some containing several birds. There were larks, linnets, and goldfinches—I should think at least twenty.
她半拉开阁楼上长长的、低矮的窗户的窗帘，让我们注意挂在那里的一些鸟笼，其中一些笼子里养着几只鸟。有云雀、红雀和金翅雀——我想至少有二十种。

‘I began to keep the little creatures,’ she said, ‘with an object that the wards will readily comprehend. With the intention of restoring them to liberty. When my judgment should be given. Yees! They die in prison, though. Their lives, poor silly things, are so short in comparison with Chancery proceedings that, one by one, the whole collection has died over and over again. I doubt, do you know, whether one of these, though they are all young, will live to be free! Ve-ry mortifying, is it not?’
“我开始用一个受监护人容易理解的目标来饲养这些小动物。”她说。目的是让他们恢复自由。当我应该做出判断时。是的！但他们死在监狱里。他们的生命，可怜的愚蠢的东西，与大法官的诉讼程序相比是如此短暂，以至于整个收藏品都一而再、再而三地死去。我怀疑，你知道吗，这些人中的一个，虽然都还年轻，是否能活得自由！非常令人羞愧，不是吗？

Although she sometimes asked a question, she never seemed to expect a reply, but rambled on as if she were in the habit of doing so when no one but herself was present.
尽管她有时会问一些问题，但她似乎从来不期待得到答复，而是漫无目的地胡言乱语，就好像她习惯在除了她自己之外没有人在场的时候这样做一样。

‘Indeed,’ she pursued, ‘I positively doubt sometimes, I do assure you, whether while matters are still unsettled, and the sixth or Great Seal still prevails, I may not one day be found lying stark and senseless here, as I have found so many birds!’
“确实，”她继续说道，“我向你保证，有时我确实怀疑，在事情尚未解决，第六封印或大封印仍然盛行的情况下，我可能不会有一天被发现躺在这里，就像我以前那样，赤裸裸地毫无知觉地躺在这里。”发现了这么多鸟！”

Richard, answering what he saw in Ada’s compassionate eyes, took the opportunity of laying some money, softly and unobserved, on the chimney-piece. We all drew nearer to the cages, feigning to examine the birds.
理查德回答了他在艾达富有同情心的眼神中看到的情况，并趁机在壁炉架上轻轻地、不被人察觉地放了一些钱。我们都靠近笼子，假装要检查鸟儿。

‘I can’t allow them to sing much,’ said the little old lady, ‘for (you’ll think this curious) I find my mind confused by the idea that they are singing while I am following the arguments in court. And my mind requires to be so very clear, you know! Another time, I’ll tell you their names. Not at present. On a day of such good omen, they shall sing as much as they like. In honour of youth,’ a smile and curtsy, ‘hope,’ a smile and curtsy, ‘and beauty,’ a smile and curtsy. ‘There! We’ll let in the full light.’
“我不能让他们唱太多歌，”小老太太说，“因为（你会觉得这很奇怪）我发现自己很困惑，因为我在法庭上听着辩论的时候他们在唱歌。”我的头脑需要非常清晰，你知道！下次我会告诉你他们的名字。目前还没有。在这样一个好兆头的日子里，他们会尽情地唱歌。为了纪念青春，”一个微笑和屈膝礼，“希望”，一个微笑和屈膝礼，“为了美丽”，一个微笑和屈膝礼。 '那里！我们会让所有的光线进来。

The birds began to stir and chirp.
鸟儿开始叽叽喳喳地叫着。

‘I cannot admit the air freely,’ said the little old lady—the room was close, and would have been the better for it—‘because the cat you saw downstairs, called Lady Jane, is greedy for their lives. She crouches on the parapet outside for hours and hours. I have discovered,’ whispering mysteriously, ‘that her natural cruelty is sharpened by a jealous fear of their regaining their liberty. In consequence of the judgment I expect being shortly given. She is sly and full of malice. I half believe, sometimes, that she is no cat, but the wolf of the old saying. It is so very difficult to keep her from the door.’
“我不能自由地呼吸空气，”小老太太说——房间很近，这样会更好——“因为你在楼下看到的那只猫，名叫简女士，贪图他们的生命。她在外面的栏杆上蹲了好几个小时。我发现，”神秘地低声说道，“由于对他们重获自由的嫉妒恐惧，她天生的残忍变得更加尖锐。我预计很快就会做出判决。她狡猾又充满恶意。有时我半信半疑，她不是猫，而是老话里的狼。把她拒之门外是非常困难的。”

Some neighbouring bells, reminding the poor soul that it was halfpast nine, did more for us in the way of bringing our visit to an end than we could easily have done for ourselves. She hurriedly took up her little bag of documents, which she had laid upon the table on coming in, and asked if we were also going into court. On our answering no, and that we would on no account detain her, she opened the door to attend us downstairs.
附近的一些钟声提醒可怜的灵魂现在已经九点半了，它为我们结束这次旅行所做的事情比我们自己所能做的要多。她赶紧拿起进来时放在桌子上的小袋子文件，问我们是否也要上法庭。当我们回答“不”并且我们绝不会拘留她时，她打开门在楼下接我们。

‘With such an omen, it is even more necessary than usual that I should be there before the Chancellor comes in,’ said she, ‘for he might mention my case the first thing. I have a presentiment that he WILL mention it the first thing this morning”
“有了这样的预兆，我比平常更有必要在总理进来之前到达那里，”她说，“因为他可能会首先提到我的案子。我有预感，他今天早上第一件事就会提到这件事。”

She stopped to tell us in a whisper as we were going down that the whole house was filled with strange lumber which her landlord had bought piecemeal and had no wish to sell, in consequence of being a little M. This was on the first floor. But she had made a previous stoppage on the second floor and had silently pointed at a dark door there.
当我们下楼时，她停下来低声告诉我们，整个房子里堆满了奇怪的木材，这些木材是她的房东零碎买来的，因为她是个小M，所以不想卖掉。这是在一楼。但她之前在二楼停下来，默默地指着那里一扇漆黑的门。

‘The only other lodger,’ she now whispered in explanation, ‘a lawwriter. The children in the lanes here say he has sold himself to the devil. I don’t know what he can have done with the money. Hush!’
“唯一的另一个房客，”她低声解释道，“一位律师。”这里巷子里的孩子们说他已经把自己卖给了魔鬼。我不知道他能用这笔钱做什么。嘘！”

She appeared to mistrust that the lodger might hear her even there, and repeating ‘Hush!’ went before us on tiptoe as though even the sound of her footsteps might reveal to him what she had said.
她似乎不相信房客即使在那里也能听到她的声音，并踮着脚尖在我们面前重复着“嘘！”，仿佛连她的脚步声都会向他透露她所说的话。

Passing through the shop on our way out, as we had passed through it on our way in, we found the old man storing a quantity of packets of waste-paper in a kind of well in the floor. He seemed to be working hard, with the perspiration standing on his forehead, and had a piece of chalk by him, with which, as he put each separate package or bundle down, he made a crooked mark on the panelling of the wall.
出去的时候经过这家店，和进来的时候一样，我们发现老人在地板上的一个井里存放着一些废纸包。他似乎正在努力工作，额头上冒着汗，他手边拿着一支粉笔，当他把每个单独的包裹或包裹放下时，他用粉笔在墙上的镶板上画了一个弯曲的标记。

Richard and Ada, and Miss Jellyby, and the little old lady had gone by him, and I was going when he touched me on the arm to stay me, and chalked the letter J upon the wall—in a very curious manner, beginning with the end of the letter and shaping it backward. It was a capital letter, not a printed one, but just such a letter as any clerk in Messrs. Kenge and Carboy’s office would have made.
理查德、艾达、杰利比小姐和小老太太都从他身边走过，我正要走，他碰了碰我的手臂，让我停下来，并用粉笔在墙上写下了字母 J——以一种非常奇怪的方式，开头是字母的末尾并将其向后塑造。这是一封大写字母，不是印刷的，而是肯格和卡博伊先生办公室的任何职员都会写的一封信。

‘Can you read it?’ he asked me with a keen glance.
“你能读懂吗？”他用敏锐的目光问我。

‘Surely,’ said I. ‘It’s very plain.’
“当然，”我说，“这很简单。”

‘What is it?’
'它是什么？'

‘J.’
“J。”

With another glance at me, and a glance at the door, he rubbed it out and turned an ‘a’ in its place (not a capital letter this time), and said, ‘What’s that?’
他又看了我一眼，又看了一眼门，把它擦掉，然后在原来的位置写了一个“a”（这次不是大写字母），然后说：“那是什么？”

I told him. He then rubbed that out and turned the letter ‘r,’ and asked me the same question. He went on quickly until he had formed in the same curious manner, beginning at the ends and bottoms of the letters, the word Jarndyce, without once leaving two letters on the wall together.
我告诉他了。然后他把它擦掉，把字母变成“r”，然后问了我同样的问题。他很快地继续说下去，直到以同样奇怪的方式从字母的末端和底部开始，形成了“Jarndyce”这个词，没有把两个字母一起留在墙上。

‘What does that spell?’ he asked me.
“那是什么咒语？”他问我。

When I told him, he laughed. In the same odd way, yet with the same rapidity, he then produced singly, and rubbed out singly, the letters forming the words Bleak House. These, in some astonishment, I also read; and he laughed again.
当我告诉他时，他笑了。以同样奇怪的方式，但以同样的速度，他然后单独制作并单独擦掉，字母形成了“Bleak House”一词。令人惊讶的是，我也读过这些；他又笑了。

‘Hi!’ said the old man, laying aside the chalk. ‘I have a turn for copying from memory, you see, miss, though I can neither read nor write.’
“嗨！”老人把粉笔放在一边说道。 “小姐，你看，我可以凭记忆抄写，尽管我既不会读也不会写。”

He looked so disagreeable and his cat looked so wickedly at me, as if I were a blood-relation of the birds upstairs, that I was quite relieved by Richard’s appearing at the door and saying, ‘Miss Summerson, I hope you are not bargaining for the sale of your hair. Don’t be tempted. Three sacks below are quite enough for Mr. Krook!’
他看起来很不讨人喜欢，他的猫也用恶毒的眼神看着我，就好像我是楼上鸟儿的血亲一样，当理查德出现在门口并说：“萨默森小姐，我希望你不要讨价还价时，我才松了口气。”为了出售你的头发。不要被诱惑。下面的三个麻袋对于克鲁克先生来说已经足够了！

I lost no time in wishing Mr. Krook good morning and joining my friends outside, where we parted with the little old lady, who gave us her blessing with great ceremony and renewed her assurance of yesterday in reference to her intention of settling estates on Ada and me. Before we finally turned out of those lanes, we looked back and saw Mr. Krook standing at his shop-door, in his spectacles, looking after us, with his cat upon his shoulder, and her tail sticking up on one side of his hairy cap like a tall feather.
我不失时机地向克鲁克先生道早安，并在外面与我的朋友们会合，在那里我们与那位小老太太告别，她以隆重的仪式向我们致以祝福，并重申了她昨天关于在艾达定居的意图的保证。和我。在我们最终走出那些小巷之前，我们回头看到克鲁克先生站在他的店门口，戴着眼镜，看着我们，他的猫在他的肩上，她的尾巴竖在他毛茸茸的一侧。帽子像一根高高的羽毛。

‘Quite an adventure for a morning in London!’ said Richard with a sigh. ‘Ah, cousin, cousin, it’s a weary word this Chancery!’
“伦敦的一个早晨真是一次冒险！”理查德叹了口气说。 “啊，表弟，表弟，这个大法官办公室真是一个令人厌烦的词！”

‘It is to me, and has been ever since I can remember,’ returned Ada. ‘I am grieved that I should be the enemy—-as I suppose I am —of a great number of relations and others, and that they should be my enemies—as I suppose they are—and that we should all be ruining one another without knowing how or why and be in constant doubt and discord all our lives. It seems very strange, as there must be right somewhere, that an honest judge in real earnest has not been able to find out through all these years where it is.’
“这是对我来说的，从我记事起就一直如此，”艾达回答道。 “我很伤心，因为我应该成为许多亲戚和其他人的敌人——正如我想的那样，他们也应该成为我的敌人——正如我想的那样——我们都应该互相毁灭不知道如何或为何，我们一生都处于不断的怀疑和不和谐之中。这似乎很奇怪，因为一定在某个地方，一个真正认真的诚实法官多年来一直无法找出它在哪里。

‘Ah, cousin!’ said Richard. ‘Strange, indeed! All this wasteful, wanton chess-playing IS very strange. To see that composed court yesterday jogging on so serenely and to think of the wretchedness of the pieces on the board gave me the headache and the heartache both together. My head ached with wondering how it happened, if men were neither fools nor rascals; and my heart ached to think they could possibly be either. But at all events, Ada—I may call you Ada?’
“啊，表弟！”理查德说。 ‘确实很奇怪！所有这些浪费、肆意的下棋都是非常奇怪的。看到昨天那场平静的球场如此平静地慢跑，想到棋盘上的棋子的惨状，我既头痛又心痛。我的头很痛，想知道如果人既不是傻子也不是流氓，这一切是怎么发生的？一想到他们可能是其中之一，我就心痛不已。但无论如何，艾达——我可以叫你艾达吗？

‘Of course you may, cousin Richard.’
“当然可以，理查德表弟。”

‘At all events, Chancery will work none of its bad influences on US. We have happily been brought together, thanks to our good kinsman, and it can’t divide us now!’
无论如何，大法官办公室不会对美国产生任何不良影响。感谢我们的好亲戚，我们很高兴地聚在一起，现在它不能分裂我们了！”

‘Never, I hope, cousin Richard!’ said Ada gently.
“我希望永远不会，理查德表弟！”艾达温柔地说。

Miss Jellyby gave my arm a squeeze and me a very significant look. I smiled in return, and we made the rest of the way back very pleasantly.
杰利比小姐捏了捏我的手臂，用一种意味深长的眼神看着我。我回以微笑，我们愉快地走完剩下的路。

In half an hour after our arrival, Mrs. Jellyby appeared; and in the course of an hour the various things necessary for breakfast straggled one by one into the dining-room. I do not doubt that Mrs. Jellyby had gone to bed and got up in the usual manner, but she presented no appearance of having changed her dress. She was greatly occupied during breakfast, for the morning’s post brought a heavy correspondence relative to Borrioboola-Gha, which would occasion her (she said) to pass a busy day. The children tumbled about, and notched memoranda of their accidents in their legs, which were perfect little calendars of distress; and Peepy was lost for an hour and a half, and brought home from Newgate market by a policeman. The equable manner in which Mrs. Jellyby sustained both his absence and his restoration to the family circle surprised us all.
我们到达后半小时，杰利比夫人出现了。一个小时之内，早餐所需的各种东西就被一件一件地扔进了餐厅。我毫不怀疑杰利比夫人已经像往常一样上床睡觉，起床了，但她并没有表现出换衣服的样子。早餐时她非常忙碌，因为早上的邮件带来了一封与博里奥布拉-加有关的大量信件，这将使她（她说）度过忙碌的一天。孩子们跌跌撞撞，在腿上刻下了事故的备忘录，这是完美的痛苦小日历；皮皮迷路了一个半小时，被警察从纽盖特市场带回家。杰利比夫人对他的缺席和他重返家庭圈子的平静态度让我们所有人都感到惊讶。

She was by that time perseveringly dictating to Caddy, and Caddy was fast relapsing into the inky condition in which we had found her. At one o’clock an open carriage arrived for us, and a cart for our luggage. Mrs. Jellyby charged us with many remembrances to her good friend Mr. Jarndyce; Caddy left her desk to see us depart, kissed me in the passage, and stood biting her pen and sobbing on the steps; Peepy, I am happy to say, was asleep and spared the pain of separation (I was not without misgivings that he had gone to Newgate market in search of me); and all the other children got up behind the barouche and fell off, and we saw them, with great concern, scattered over the surface of Thavies Inn as we rolled out of its precincts.
那时她正在坚持不懈地向凯迪发号施令，而凯迪很快又陷入了我们发现她时的那种漆黑状态。一点钟，一辆敞篷马车来接我们，还有一辆装我们行李的手推车。杰利比夫人让我们对她的好朋友贾迪斯先生进行了许多纪念。凯蒂离开办公桌送我们离开，在过道里吻了我，然后站在台阶上咬着笔抽泣。我很高兴地说，皮比已经睡着了，免去了分离的痛苦（我不无疑虑他去纽盖特市场找我）；所有其他孩子都从四轮马车后面爬起来，摔了下来，当我们驶出萨维斯旅馆的区域时，我们非常担心地看到他们分散在萨维斯旅馆的地面上。

CHAPTER VI
第六章


Quite at Home
宾至如归

The day had brightened very much, and still brightened as we went westward. We went our way through the sunshine and the fresh air, wondering more and more at the extent of the streets, the brilliancy of the shops, the great traffic, and the crowds of people whom the pleasanter weather seemed to have brought out like many-coloured flowers. By and by we began to leave the wonderful city and to proceed through suburbs which, of themselves, would have made a pretty large town in my eyes; and at last we got into a real country road again, with windmills, rick-yards, milestones, farmers’ waggons, scents of old hay, swinging signs, and horse troughs: trees, fields, and hedge-rows. It was delightful to see the green landscape before us and the immense metropolis behind; and when a waggon with a train of beautiful horses, furnished with red trappings and clear-sounding bells, came by us with its music, I believe we could all three have sung to the bells, so cheerful were the influences around.
天已经亮了许多，我们向西行进时，天色依然明亮。我们在阳光和新鲜空气中前行，越来越好奇街道的范围、商店的辉煌、交通的畅通以及宜人的天气似乎带来的人群——彩色的花朵。渐渐地，我们开始离开这座美妙的城市，前往郊区，在我眼中，这些郊区本身就已经是一个相当大的城镇了。最后，我们又进入了一条真正的乡村道路，有风车、堆垛场、里程碑、农夫的马车、老干草的气味、摇摆的标志和马槽：树木、田野和树篱。眼前是绿色的风景，身后是巨大的大都市，真是令人高兴。当一辆马车载着一列美丽的马匹，装饰着红色的服饰和清脆的铃铛，伴随着音乐从我们身边驶过时，我相信我们三个人都可以随着铃铛唱歌，周围的气氛是如此欢快。

‘The whole road has been reminding me of my name-sake Whittington,’ said Richard, ‘and that waggon is the finishing touch. Halloa! What’s the matter?’
“整条路一直让我想起我的同名惠廷顿，”理查德说，“那辆马车是点睛之笔。”喊叫！怎么了？'

We had stopped, and the waggon had stopped too. Its music changed as the horses came to a stand, and subsided to a gentle tinkling, except when a horse tossed his head or shook himself and sprinkled off a little shower of bell-ringing.
我们停了下来，马车也停了下来。当马匹停下来时，它的音乐就发生了变化，然后逐渐减弱为轻微的丁当声，除了当一匹马摇头或摇晃自己并发出一阵阵铃声时。

‘Our postilion is looking after the waggoner,’ said Richard, ‘and the waggoner is coming back after us. Good day, friend!’ The waggoner was at our coach-door. ‘Why, here’s an extraordinary thing!’ added Richard, looking closely at the man. ‘He has got your name, Ada, in his hat!’
“我们的后勤人员正在照顾马车夫，”理查德说，“马车夫正在追赶我们。”美好的一天，朋友！” 马车夫就在我们的马车门口。 “哎呀，这真是一件非同寻常的事情！”理查德补充道，仔细地看着这个男人。 “他的帽子上有你的名字，艾达！”

He had all our names in his hat. Tucked within the band were three small notes—one addressed to Ada, one to Richard, one to me. These the waggoner delivered to each of us respectively, reading the name aloud first. In answer to Richard’s inquiry from whom they came, he briefly answered, ‘Master, sir, if you please”; and putting on his hat again (which was like a soft bowl), cracked his whip, re-awakened his music, and went melodiously away.
他的帽子里有我们所有人的名字。乐队里夹着三张小纸条——一张写给艾达，一张写给理查德，一张写给我。车夫把这些分别递给我们每人，先大声念出名字。在回答理查德的询问时，他简短地回答说：“主人，先生，如果您愿意的话”；然后又戴上帽子（就像一个软碗），敲响鞭子，重新唤醒他的音乐，然后悠扬地走开。

‘Is that Mr. Jarndyce’s waggon?’ said Richard, calling to our postboy.
“那是贾迪斯先生的马车吗？”理查德一边喊着我们的邮递员一边说道。

‘Yes, sir,’ he replied. ‘Going to London.’
“是的，先生，”他回答道。 “去伦敦。”

We opened the notes. Each was a counterpart of the other and contained these words in a solid, plain hand.
我们打开笔记。每个人都是另一个人的对手，并以坚实、朴素的笔迹写下了这些文字。

‘I look forward, my dear, to our meeting easily and without constraint on either side. I therefore have to propose that we meet as old friends and take the past for granted. It will be a relief to you possibly, and to me certainly, and so my love to you.
“亲爱的，我期待着我们轻松地会面，不受任何一方的限制。因此我不得不提议我们像老朋友一样见面，把过去视为理所当然。这可能对你来说是一种解脱，当然对我来说也是如此，所以我对你的爱。

John Jarndyce”
约翰·詹迪斯”

I had perhaps less reason to be surprised than either of my companions, having never yet enjoyed an opportunity of thanking one who had been my benefactor and sole earthly dependence through so many years. I had not considered how I could thank him, my gratitude lying too deep in my heart for that; but I now began to consider how I could meet him without thanking him, and felt it would be very difficult indeed.
也许我没有比我的同伴更惊讶的理由，因为我还没有机会感谢一个多年来一直是我的恩人和唯一世俗依靠的人。我没有想过要如何感谢他，我的感激之情太深了。但我现在开始考虑如何才能见到他而不感谢他，并觉得这确实很难。

The notes revived in Richard and Ada a general impression that they both had, without quite knowing how they came by it, that their cousin Jarndyce could never bear acknowledgments for any kindness he performed and that sooner than receive any he would resort to the most singular expedients and evasions or would even run away. Ada dimly remembered to have heard her mother tell, when she was a very little child, that he had once done her an act of uncommon generosity and that on her going to his house to thank him, he happened to see her through a window coming to the door, and immediately escaped by the back gate, and was not heard of for three months. This discourse led to a great deal more on the same theme, and indeed it lasted us all day, and we talked of scarcely anything else. If we did by any chance diverge into another subject, we soon returned to this, and wondered what the house would be like, and when we should get there, and whether we should see Mr. Jarndyce as soon as we arrived or after a delay, and what he would say to us, and what we should say to him. All of which we wondered about, over and over again.
这些便条让理查德和艾达重新产生了一个普遍的印象：尽管他们不太清楚自己是怎么得到的，但他们俩都知道，他们的表弟贾迪斯永远无法接受他所表现出的任何善意的感谢，而且在收到任何善意之前，他都会采取最独特的方式。权宜之计、逃避甚至逃跑。艾达依稀记得，当她还是个小孩子的时候，曾听她母亲说过，他曾经对她做了一件不寻常的慷慨之举，当她去他家感谢他时，他碰巧从窗户里看到她走过来。到了门口，立即从后门逃走，三个月杳无音讯。这次谈话导致了关于同一主题的更多内容，事实上，我们持续了一整天，我们几乎没有谈论任何其他事情。如果我们万一分岔到另一个话题，我们很快就会回到这个话题，想知道房子会是什么样子，我们什么时候应该到达那里，以及我们是否应该在到达后立即或延迟一段时间后才能见到贾迪斯先生。 ，以及他会对我们说什么，以及我们应该对他说什么。所有这些都是我们一遍又一遍地想知道的。

The roads were very heavy for the horses, but the pathway was generally good, so we alighted and walked up all the hills, and liked it so well that we prolonged our walk on the level ground when we got to the top. At Barnet there were other horses waiting for us, but as they had only just been fed, we had to wait for them too, and got a long fresh walk over a common and an old battlefield before the carriage came up. These delays so protracted the journey that the short day was spent and the long night had closed in before we came to St. Albans, near to which town Bleak House was, we knew.
道路对马来说很困难，但路况总体来说还不错，所以我们下了车，走上了所有的山丘，我们非常喜欢这样，所以当我们到达山顶时，我们在平地上延长了步行时间。在巴尼特，还有其他马在等着我们，但由于它们刚刚喂饱，我们也得等它们，在马车上来之前，我们在一个公共的、古老的战场上走了很长一段新鲜的路。这些延误使旅程变得如此漫长，以至于在我们到达圣奥尔本斯之前，我们度过了短暂的白天，漫长的夜晚也过去了，我们知道，荒凉山庄就在那个小镇附近。

By that time we were so anxious and nervous that even Richard confessed, as we rattled over the stones of the old street, to feeling an irrational desire to drive back again. As to Ada and me, whom he had wrapped up with great care, the night being sharp and frosty, we trembled from head to foot. When we turned out of the town, round a corner, and Richard told us that the post-boy, who had for a long time sympathized with our heightened expectation, was looking back and nodding, we both stood up in the carriage (Richard holding Ada lest she should be jolted down) and gazed round upon the open country and the starlight night for our destination. There was a light sparkling on the top of a hill before us, and the driver, pointing to it with his whip and crying, ‘That’s Bleak House!’ put his horses into a canter and took us forward at such a rate, uphill though it was, that the wheels sent the road drift flying about our heads like spray from a water-mill. Presently we lost the light, presently saw it, presently lost it, presently saw it, and turned into an avenue of trees and cantered up towards where it was beaming brightly. It was in a window of what seemed to be an old-fashioned house with three peaks in the roof in front and a circular sweep leading to the porch. A bell was rung as we drew up, and amidst the sound of its deep voice in the still air, and the distant barking of some dogs, and a gush of light from the opened door, and the smoking and steaming of the heated horses, and the quickened beating of our own hearts, we alighted in no inconsiderable confusion.
那时我们是如此焦虑和紧张，甚至连理查德也承认，当我们在老街上的石头上嘎嘎作响时，我们感到一种非理性的渴望再次开车回去。至于我和艾达，被他精心包裹起来，夜色凛冽，霜冻森严，我们从头到脚都在颤抖。当我们走出小镇，拐过一个街角时，理查德告诉我们，长期以来一直同情我们高度期望的邮差正在回头点头，我们俩都在马车上站了起来（理查德抱着艾达（以免她被摇倒）凝视着我们目的地的空旷乡村和星光灿烂的夜晚。我们面前的山顶上有一盏灯闪闪发光，车夫用鞭子指着它喊道：“那是荒凉山庄！”他策马慢跑，带着我们以这样的速度前进，尽管是上坡。正是如此，车轮使道路上的积水像水磨坊喷出的水花一样在我们的头顶上飞来飞去。一会儿我们失去了光，一会儿看到了它，一会儿失去了光，一会儿又看到了它，然后拐进一条林荫道，小跑着向光亮的地方走去。它位于一座老式房屋的窗户里，前面的屋顶有三个尖顶，有一个圆形的门廊通向门廊。当我们停下来时，钟声响起，在寂静的空气中传来低沉的声音，远处传来几只狗的吠叫声，打开的门里涌出一道光，热腾腾的马匹冒着烟和热气，伴随着我们自己的心跳加快，我们下车时感到非常困惑。

‘Ada, my love, Esther, my dear, you are welcome. I rejoice to see you! Rick, if I had a hand to spare at present, I would give it you!’
“艾达，我的爱人，埃丝特，亲爱的，不客气。”我很高兴见到你！里克，如果我现在有空闲的手，我会把它给你！

The gentleman who said these words in a clear, bright, hospitable voice had one of his arms round Ada’s waist and the other round mine, and kissed us both in a fatherly way, and bore us across the hall into a ruddy little room, all in a glow with a blazing fire. Here he kissed us again, and opening his arms, made us sit down side by side on a sofa ready drawn out near the hearth. I felt that if we had been at all demonstrative, he would have run away in a moment.
那位绅士以清晰、明亮、热情的声音说出了这句话，他的一只手臂搂着艾达的腰，另一只手臂搂着我的腰，以慈父般的方式亲吻了我们俩，然后带着我们穿过大厅，进入了一间红润的小房间。在炽热的火焰中。在这里，他再次吻了我们，张开双臂，让我们并排坐在炉边准备好的沙发上。我觉得如果我们有任何表现，他就会立刻逃跑。

‘Now, Rick!’ said he. ‘I have a hand at liberty. A word in earnest is as good as a speech. I am heartily glad to see you. You are at home. Warm yourself!’
“现在，瑞克！”他说。 “我有一只手可以自由。”一句真诚的话就像一场演讲一样好。我很高兴见到你。你在家。暖暖身子吧！

Richard shook him by both hands with an intuitive mixture of respect and frankness, and only saying (though with an earnestness that rather alarmed me, I was so afraid of Mr. Jarndyce’s suddenly disappearing), ‘You are very kind, sir! We are very much obliged to you!’ laid aside his hat and coat and came up to the fire.
理查德本能地握着他的双手，既尊重又坦率，只说道（尽管语气中的真诚让我相当震惊，我很害怕贾迪斯先生突然消失）：“您真是太好了，先生！”我们非常感谢你！”放下帽子和外套，来到火边。

‘And how did you like the ride? And how did you like Mrs. Jellyby, my dear?’ said Mr. Jarndyce to Ada.
“你觉得这次旅行怎么样？” “亲爱的，你觉得杰利比夫人怎么样？”贾迪斯先生对艾达说道。

While Ada was speaking to him in reply, I glanced (I need not say with how much interest) at his face. It was a handsome, lively, quick face, full of change and motion; and his hair was a silvered iron-grey. I took him to be nearer sixty than fifty, but he was upright, hearty, and robust. From the moment of his first speaking to us his voice had connected itself with an association in my mind that I could not define; but now, all at once, a something sudden in his manner and a pleasant expression in his eyes recalled the gentleman in the stagecoach six years ago on the memorable day of my journey to Reading. I was certain it was he. I never was so frightened in my life as when I made the discovery, for he caught my glance, and appearing to read my thoughts, gave such a look at the door that I thought we had lost him.
当艾达回答他时，我瞥了一眼（不用说有多感兴趣）他的脸。那是一张英俊、活泼、敏捷的脸，充满了变化和动感。他的头发是银灰色的。我看他年纪不超过五十，将近六十，但为人正直，精神饱满，身体健壮。从他第一次对我们说话的那一刻起，他的声音就与我脑海中的一种我无法定义的联想联系在一起；但现在，他突然的举止和愉快的眼神让我想起了六年前我去雷丁之旅的难忘的一天，公共马车上的这位绅士。我确信是他。当我发现这一点时，我一生中从未如此害怕过，因为他注意到了我的目光，似乎读懂了我的想法，看了一眼门，我以为我们已经失去了他。

However, I am happy to say he remained where he was, and asked me what I thought of Mrs. Jellyby.
然而，我很高兴地说他仍然留在原地，并问我对杰利比夫人的看法。

‘She exerts herself very much for Africa, sir,’ I said.
“她为非洲付出了很多努力，先生，”我说。

‘Nobly!’ returned Mr. Jarndyce. ‘But you answer like Ada.’ Whom I had not heard. ‘You all think something else, I see.’
“太棒了！”贾迪斯先生回答道。 “但你的回答就像艾达一样。”我没有听到她的声音。 “我明白，你们都有别的想法。”

‘We rather thought,’ said I, glancing at Richard and Ada, who entreated me with their eyes to speak, ‘that perhaps she was a little unmindful of her home.’
“我们倒是认为，”我看了一眼理查德和艾达，他们用眼神恳求我说话，“也许她有点不关心自己的家。”

‘Floored!’ cried Mr. Jarndyce.
“摔倒了！”贾迪斯先生喊道。

I was rather alarmed again.
我又有点惊慌了。

‘Well! I want to know your real thoughts, my dear. I may have sent you there on purpose.’
'出色地！我想知道你的真实想法，亲爱的。我可能是故意送你去那里的。

‘We thought that, perhaps,’ said I, hesitating, ‘it is right to begin with the obligations of home, sir; and that, perhaps, while those are overlooked and neglected, no other duties can possibly be substituted for them.’
“我们认为，也许，”我犹豫着说，“从家庭义务开始是正确的，先生；也许，虽然这些职责被忽视和忽视，但没有其他职责可以替代它们。

‘The little Jellybys,’ said Richard, coming to my relief, ‘are really—I can’t help expressing myself strongly, sir—in a devil of a state.’
“小杰利比一家，”理查德说道，这让我松了口气，“先生，我情不自禁地强烈地表达了自己的想法。”

‘She means well,’ said Mr. Jarndyce hastily. ‘The wind’s in the east.’
“她的本意是好的，”贾迪斯先生急忙说道。 “风在东方。”

‘It was in the north, sir, as we came down,’ observed Richard.
“当我们下来时，那是在北方，长官，”理查德观察到。

‘My dear Rick,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, poking the fire, ‘I’ll take an oath it’s either in the east or going to be. I am always conscious of an uncomfortable sensation now and then when the wind is blowing in the east.’
“亲爱的瑞克，”贾迪斯先生一边拨弄火一边说道，“我发誓要么在东方，要么就会在东方。”当风从东方吹来时，我时不时地会感到一种不舒服的感觉。

‘Rheumatism, sir?’ said Richard.
“风湿病，先生？”理查德说。

‘I dare say it is, Rick. I believe it is. And so the little Jell —I had my doubts about ‘em—are in a—oh, Lord, yes, it’s easterly!’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“我敢说是的，瑞克。我相信是的。所以小果冻——我对它们有疑问——是在——哦，主啊，是的，是东风！”贾迪斯先生说。

He had taken two or three undecided turns up and down while uttering these broken sentences, retaining the poker in one hand and rubbing his hair with the other, with a good-natured vexation at once so whimsical and so lovable that I am sure we were more delighted with him than we could possibly have expressed in any words. He gave an arm to Ada and an arm to me, and bidding Richard bring a candle, was leading the way out when he suddenly turned us all back again.
他在说出这些断断续续的句子时，犹豫不决地上下转了两三圈，一手拿着拨火棍，另一只手揉着头发，带着一种善意的烦恼，既异想天开，又如此可爱，我确信我们是我们对他的高兴程度无法用任何言语来表达。他向艾达伸出一只手臂，又向我伸出一只手臂，并吩咐理查德带一支蜡烛，他正带路出去，突然又把我们全部带回来。

‘Those little Jellybys. Couldn’t you—didn’t you—now, if it had rained sugar-plums, or three-cornered raspberry tarts, or anything of that sort!’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“那些小果冻。” “你不能——不是吗——现在，如果下了糖李子雨，或者三角覆盆子馅饼，或者类似的东西！”贾迪斯先生说。

‘Oh, cousin—‘ Ada hastily began.
“哦，表弟——”艾达急忙开口说道。

‘Good, my pretty pet. I like cousin. Cousin John, perhaps, is better.’
‘很好，我可爱的宠物。我喜欢表弟。也许约翰表弟更好。

‘Then, cousin John—‘ Ada laughingly began again.
“那么，约翰表弟——”艾达又笑着开始说道。

‘Ha, ha! Very good indeed!’ said Mr. Jarndyce with great enjoyment. ‘Sounds uncommonly natural. Yes, my dear?’
'哈哈！确实很好！”贾迪斯先生非常高兴地说。 “听起来异常自然。是的亲爱的？'

‘It did better than that. It rained Esther.’
‘它做得比那更好。以斯帖下雨了。

‘Aye?’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘What did Esther do?’
“嗯？”贾迪斯先生说。 “以斯帖做了什么？”

‘Why, cousin John,’ said Ada, clasping her hands upon his arm and shaking her head at me across him—for I wanted her to be quiet— ‘Esther was their friend directly. Esther nursed them, coaxed them to sleep, washed and dressed them, told them stories, kept them quiet, bought them keepsakes’—My dear girl! I had only gone out with Peepy after he was found and given him a little, tiny horse!— ‘and, cousin John, she softened poor Caroline, the eldest one, so much and was so thoughtful for me and so amiable! No, no, I won’t be contradicted, Esther dear! You know, you know, it’s true!’
“哎呀，约翰表弟，”艾达说，双手紧握他的手臂，隔着他向我摇摇头——因为我想让她安静——“埃丝特是他们的直接朋友。以斯帖护理他们，哄他们入睡，给他们洗澡穿衣，给他们讲故事，让他们保持安静，给他们买纪念品——我亲爱的女孩！我是在皮皮被发现后才和他出去的，并给了他一匹小马！——“而且，约翰表弟，她软化了可怜的卡罗琳，最大的一个，对我如此体贴，如此和蔼可亲！”不，不，我不会被反驳，亲爱的埃丝特！你知道，你知道，这是真的！

The warm-hearted darling leaned across her cousin John and kissed me, and then looking up in his face, boldly said, ‘At all events, cousin John, I WILL thank you for the companion you have given me.’ I felt as if she challenged him to run away. But he didn’t.
这位热心肠的宝贝靠在她的表弟约翰身上，吻了我，然后抬头看着他的脸，大胆地说：“无论如何，表弟约翰，我会感谢你给我的陪伴。”我感觉好像她挑战他逃跑。但他没有。

‘Where did you say the wind was, Rick?’ asked Mr. Jarndyce.
“你说风在哪里，里克？”贾迪斯先生问道。

‘In the north as we came down, sir.’
“我们降落时在北方，长官。”

‘You are right. There’s no east in it. A mistake of mine. Come, girls, come and see your home!’
'你是对的。里面没有东方。我的一个错误。来吧，女孩们，来看看你的家吧！

It was one of those delightfully irregular houses where you go up and down steps out of one room into another, and where you come upon more rooms when you think you have seen all there are, and where there is a bountiful provision of little halls and passages, and where you find still older cottage-rooms in unexpected places with lattice windows and green growth pressing through them. Mine, which we entered first, was of this kind, with an up-and-down roof that had more corners in it than I ever counted afterwards and a chimney (there was a wood fire on the hearth) paved all around with pure white tiles, in every one of which a bright miniature of the fire was blazing. Out of this room, you went down two steps into a charming little sitting-room looking down upon a flower-garden, which room was henceforth to belong to Ada and me. Out of this you went up three steps into Ada’s bedroom, which had a fine broad window commanding a beautiful view (we saw a great expanse of darkness lying underneath the stars), to which there was a hollow window-seat, in which, with a spring-lock, three dear Adas might have been lost at once. Out of this room you passed into a little gallery, with which the other best rooms (only two) communicated, and so, by a little staircase of shallow steps with a number of corner stairs in it, considering its length, down into the hall. But if instead of going out at Ada’s door you came back into my room, and went out at the door by which you had entered it, and turned up a few crooked steps that branched off in an unexpected manner from the stairs, you lost yourself in passages, with mangles in them, and three-cornered tables, and a native Hindu chair, which was also a sofa, a box, and a bedstead, and looked in every form something between a bamboo skeleton and a great bird-cage, and had been brought from India nobody knew by whom or when. From these you came on Richard’s room, which was part library, part sittingroom, part bedroom, and seemed indeed a comfortable compound of many rooms. Out of that you went straight, with a little interval of passage, to the plain room where Mr. Jarndyce slept, all the year round, with his window open, his bedstead without any furniture standing in the middle of the floor for more air, and his cold bath gaping for him in a smaller room adjoining. Out of that you came into another passage, where there were back-stairs and where you could hear the horses being rubbed down outside the stable and being told to ‘Hold up’ and ‘Get over,’ as they slipped about very much on the uneven stones. Or you might, if you came out at another door (every room had at least two doors), go straight down to the hall again by half-a-dozen steps and a low archway, wondering how you got back there or had ever got out of it.
这是一栋令人愉快的不规则房屋，你从一个房间走上走下进入另一个房间，当你认为你已经看到了所有的房间时，你会发现更多的房间，那里有大量的小大厅和房间。你会在意想不到的地方发现更古老的小屋，窗户上有格子窗，绿色的植物从窗户中穿过。我们先进去的就是这样的，有一个上下的屋顶，里面的角落比我后来数过的还要多，还有一个烟囱（炉边生着柴火），周围铺着纯白色的东西。瓷砖上，每一块瓷砖上都燃烧着明亮的火焰。出了这个房间，走下两级台阶，就进入了一间迷人的小客厅，俯瞰着花园，这个房间从此就属于艾达和我了。出了这里，你上了三级台阶，来到了艾达的卧室，那里有一扇宽阔的窗户，可以看到美丽的景色（我们看到星星下面躺着一大片黑暗），卧室里有一个空心的靠窗座位，里面有一个弹簧锁，三个亲爱的阿达可能会同时丢失。走出这个房间，你进入一个小画廊，与其他最好的房间（只有两个）相通，因此，通过一个浅台阶的小楼梯，考虑到它的长度，里面有许多角楼梯，进入大厅。 但是，如果你不是从艾达的门出去，而是回到我的房间，从你进来的那扇门出去，然后走上几级弯曲的台阶，这些台阶以意想不到的方式从楼梯上分出，你就会迷失自己过道里，里面有轧机，三角桌，还有一张本土印度教椅子，也是一张沙发、一个盒子和一个床架，各种形式看起来都介于竹骨架和大鸟笼之间，它是从印度带来的，没人知道是由谁或何时带来的。从这些房间你来到了理查德的房间，它一半是图书馆，一半是起居室，一半是卧室，看起来确实是一个由许多房间组成的舒适的复合体。从那儿出来，你直走，中间有一段短暂的通道，来到贾迪斯先生常年睡觉的简陋房间，他的窗户开着，床架没有任何家具，立在地板中央，以便呼吸更多空气，隔壁一间小房间里的冷水澡正等着他。从那里你进入了另一条通道，那里有后楼梯，你可以听到马厩外的马被摩擦，并被告知“站住”和“过去”，因为它们在马厩上滑倒了。不平坦的石头。或者，如果你从另一扇门出来（每个房间至少有两扇门），你可能会再次直接走下六级台阶和一个低矮的拱门，到达大厅，想知道你是如何回到那里或曾经到达过的。出来了。

The furniture, old-fashioned rather than old, like the house, was as pleasantly irregular. Ada’s sleeping-room was all flowers—in chintz and paper, in velvet, in needlework, in the brocade of two stiff courtly chairs which stood, each attended by a little page of a stool for greater state, on either side of the fire-place. Our sitting-room was green and had framed and glazed upon the walls numbers of surprising and surprised birds, staring out of pictures at a real trout in a case, as brown and shining as if it had been served with gravy; at the death of Captain Cook; and at the whole process of preparing tea in China, as depicted by Chinese artists. In my room there were oval engravings of the months—ladies haymaking in short waists and large hats tied under the chin, for June; smooth-legged noblemen pointing with cocked-hats to village steeples, for October. Half-length portraits in crayons abounded all through the house, but were so dispersed that I found the brother of a youthful officer of mine in the china-closet and the grey old age of my pretty young bride, with a flower in her bodice, in the breakfast-room. As substitutes, I had four angels, of Queen Anne’s reign, taking a complacent gentleman to heaven, in festoons, with some difficulty; and a composition in needlework representing fruit, a kettle, and an alphabet. All the movables, from the wardrobes to the chairs and tables, hangings, glasses, even to the pincushions and scent-bottles on the dressing-tables, displayed the same quaint variety. They agreed in nothing but their perfect neatness, their display of the whitest linen, and their storing-up, wheresoever the existence of a drawer, small or large, rendered it possible, of quantities of rose-leaves and sweet lavender. Such, with its illuminated windows, softened here and there by shadows of curtains, shining out upon the starlight night; with its light, and warmth, and comfort; with its hospitable jingle, at a distance, of preparations for dinner; with the face of its generous master brightening everything we saw; and just wind enough without to sound a low accompaniment to everything we heard, were our first impressions of Bleak House.
家具与房子一样，与其说是旧的，不如说是老式的，不规则的样子令人愉快。艾达的卧室里到处都是鲜花——印花棉布和纸质的，天鹅绒的，针线活的，还有两把硬邦邦的宫廷椅子，每把椅子上都放着一张小凳子，以增加气氛，放在火炉的两边——地方。我们的起居室是绿色的，墙上镶着玻璃框，挂着许多令人惊讶的鸟儿，它们盯着画中的盒子里的一条真正的鳟鱼，棕色的、闪闪发亮的，就像是浇了肉汁一样；库克船长去世时；以及中国艺术家描绘的中国泡茶的整个过程。我的房间里有椭圆形的月份雕刻——六月的女士们，腰部很短，戴着大帽子，正在割草；六月，女士们正在收割干草。腿光滑的贵族们戴着三角帽指着村庄的尖塔，迎接十月。屋子里到处都是蜡笔画的半身肖像，但它们太分散了，以至于我在瓷器衣柜里找到了我一位年轻军官的兄弟，还有我年轻漂亮的新娘的灰色老年，她的紧身胸衣里有一朵花，在早餐室里。作为替代，我有四个安妮女王统治时期的天使，带着一位沾沾自喜的绅士到天堂，带着花彩，有一些困难；以及代表水果、水壶和字母的针线作品。所有的可移动物品，从衣柜到桌椅、窗帘、眼镜，甚至梳妆台上的针垫和香水瓶，都展现出同样的古雅风格。他们除了完美的整洁、最白的亚麻布的展示，以及无论大小的抽屉的存在，都可以储存大量的玫瑰叶和甜美的薰衣草。 这样的窗户明亮，窗帘的阴影使这里和那里变得柔和，照耀着星光灿烂的夜晚；带着它的光、温暖和舒适；远处传来热情好客的叮当声，预示着正在准备晚餐；其慷慨主人的面庞照亮了我们所看到的一切；我们对《荒凉山庄》的第一印象是，风足够大，不会对我们听到的一切发出低沉的伴奏。

‘I am glad you like it,’ said Mr. Jarndyce when he had brought us round again to Ada’s sitting-room. ‘It makes no pretensions, but it is a comfortable little place, I hope, and will be more so with such bright young looks in it. You have barely half an hour before dinner. There’s no one here but the finest creature upon earth—a child.’
“我很高兴你喜欢它，”当贾迪斯先生把我们再次带到艾达的客厅时说道。 “它不做作，但我希望这是一个舒适的小地方，而且里面有如此明亮的年轻外观，更是如此。”距离晚餐时间只有半个小时了。这里没有人，只有地球上最优秀的生物——一个孩子。”

‘More children, Esther!’ said Ada.
“更多的孩子，埃斯特！”艾达说。

‘I don’t mean literally a child,’ pursued Mr. Jarndyce; ‘not a child in years. He is grown up—he is at least as old as I am—but in simplicity, and freshness, and enthusiasm, and a fine guileless inaptitude for all worldly affairs, he is a perfect child.’
“我并不是说真正的孩子，”贾迪斯先生继续说道。 “已经不是个孩子了。”他已经长大了——他至少和我一样大了——但就单纯、新鲜、热情以及对所有世俗事务的朴实无能而言，他是一个完美的孩子。

We felt that he must be very interesting.
我们觉得他一定很有趣。

‘He knows Mrs. Jellyby,’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘He is a musical man, an amateur, but might have been a professional. He is an artist too, an amateur, but might have been a professional. He is a man of attainments and of captivating manners. He has been unfortunate in his affairs, and unfortunate in his pursuits, and unfortunate in his family; but he don’t care—he’s a child!’
“他认识杰利比夫人，”贾迪斯先生说。 “他是一个音乐人，一个业余爱好者，但也可能是一个专业人士。他也是一位艺术家，一位业余爱好者，但也可能是一位专业人士。他是一个有成就、举止迷人的人。他的事业不幸，事业不幸，家庭不幸。但他不在乎——他只是个孩子！”

‘Did you imply that he has children of his own, sir?’ inquired Richard.
“您的意思是他有自己的孩子吗，先生？”理查德问道。

‘Yes, Rick! Half-a-dozen. More! Nearer a dozen, I should think. But he has never looked after them. How could he? He wanted somebody to look after HIM. He is a child, you know!’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
‘是的，瑞克！半打。更多的！我想大概有十几个。但他从来没有照顾过他们。他怎么可以？他希望有人照顾他。 “他还是个孩子，你知道！”贾迪斯先生说。

‘And have the children looked after themselves at all, sir?’ inquired Richard.
“孩子们照顾好自己了吗，先生？”理查德问道。

‘Why, just as you may suppose,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, his countenance suddenly falling. ‘It is said that the children of the very poor are not brought up, but dragged up. Harold Skimpole’s children have tumbled up somehow or other. The wind’s getting round again, I am afraid. I feel it rather!’
“为什么，正如你所想的那样，”贾迪斯先生说，他的脸色突然沉了下来。有人说，穷人的孩子不是被养大的，而是被拖拉起来的。哈罗德·斯金波尔的孩子们不知何故摔倒了。恐怕又刮风了。我倒是有这种感觉！

Richard observed that the situation was exposed on a sharp night.
理查德观察到，情况是在一个严酷的夜晚暴露出来的。

‘It IS exposed,’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘No doubt that’s the cause. Bleak House has an exposed sound. But you are coming my way. Come along!’
“它已经暴露了，”贾迪斯先生说。 ‘毫无疑问，这就是原因。 《荒凉山庄》有暴露的声音。但你正朝我走来。一起来！'

Our luggage having arrived and being all at hand, I was dressed in a few minutes and engaged in putting my worldly goods away when a maid (not the one in attendance upon Ada, but another, whom I had not seen) brought a basket into my room with two bunches of keys in it, all labelled.
我们的行李已经到达，一切都在手边，几分钟后我就穿好衣服，准备把我的世俗物品收起来，这时一名女仆（不是侍奉艾达的那个，而是另一个我没见过的女仆）把一个篮子搬进了房间。我的房间里有两串钥匙，都贴有标签。

‘For you, miss, if you please,’ said she.
“小姐，如果你愿意的话，送给你，”她说。

‘For me?’ said I.
“给我？”我说。

‘The housekeeping keys, miss.’
“客房钥匙，小姐。”

I showed my surprise, for she added with some little surprise on her own part, ‘I was told to bring them as soon as you was alone, miss. Miss Summerson, if I don’t deceive myself?’
我表现出了我的惊讶，因为她自己也有些惊讶地补充道：“小姐，我被告知，一旦你独自一人，就要把它们带来。”萨默森小姐，如果我不欺骗自己的话？

‘Yes,’ said I. ‘That is my name.’
“是的，”我说，“这是我的名字。”

‘The large bunch is the housekeeping, and the little bunch is the cellars, miss. Any time you was pleased to appoint tomorrow morning, I was to show you the presses and things they belong to.’
“一大堆是管家的，一小堆是地窖的，小姐。明天早上只要你愿意，我都会带你去看印刷机和它们所属的东西。

I said I would be ready at half-past six, and after she was gone, stood looking at the basket, quite lost in the magnitude of my trust. Ada found me thus and had such a delightful confidence in me when I showed her the keys and told her about them that it would have been insensibility and ingratitude not to feel encouraged. I knew, to be sure, that it was the dear girl’s kindness, but I liked to be so pleasantly cheated.
我说我会在六点半准备好，等她走后，我站在那里看着篮子，完全沉浸在我的信任之中。艾达就这样找到了我，当我向她展示钥匙并告诉她这些钥匙时，她对我充满了信心，如果不感到受到鼓励，那就太麻木和忘恩负义了。我知道，当然，这是亲爱的女孩的好意，但我喜欢被如此愉快地欺骗。

When we went downstairs, we were presented to Mr. Skimpole, who was standing before the fire telling Richard how fond he used to be, in his school-time, of football. He was a little bright creature with a rather large head, but a delicate face and a sweet voice, and there was a perfect charm in him. All he said was so free from effort and spontaneous and was said with such a captivating gaiety that it was fascinating to hear him talk. Being of a more slender figure than Mr. Jarndyce and having a richer complexion, with browner hair, he looked younger. Indeed, he had more the appearance in all respects of a damaged young man than a wellpreserved elderly one. There was an easy negligence in his manner and even in his dress (his hair carelessly disposed, and his neckkerchief loose and flowing, as I have seen artists paint their own portraits) which I could not separate from the idea of a romantic youth who had undergone some unique process of depreciation. It struck me as being not at all like the manner or appearance of a man who had advanced in life by the usual road of years, cares, and experiences.
当我们下楼时，我们被带到了斯金波尔先生面前，他站在火前告诉理查德他在上学时多么喜欢足球。他是个聪明的小家伙，脑袋很大，但脸蛋精致，声音甜美，浑身散发着一种完美的魅力。他所说的一切都是如此轻松、自然，而且语气如此迷人，听他说话真是令人着迷。他比贾迪斯先生身材更苗条，肤色更丰富，头发更棕色，看起来更年轻。确实，他在各方面都更像是一位受伤的年轻人，而不是一位保存完好的老人。他的举止，甚至他的衣着（他的头发随意地摆着，他的颈巾松散而飘逸，就像我见过艺术家为自己画肖像一样），我无法将这与一个浪漫的年轻人的想法分开。经历了一些独特的折旧过程。我觉得它完全不像一个通过岁月、忧虑和经历而在生活中取得进步的人的举止或外表。

I gathered from the conversation that Mr. Skimpole had been educated for the medical profession and had once lived, in his professional capacity, in the household of a German prince. He told us, however, that as he had always been a mere child in point of weights and measures and had never known anything about them (except that they disgusted him), he had never been able to prescribe with the requisite accuracy of detail. In fact, he said, he had no head for detail. And he told us, with great humour, that when he was wanted to bleed the prince or physic any of his people, he was generally found lying on his back in bed, reading the newspapers or making fancy-sketches in pencil, and couldn’t come. The prince, at last, objecting to this, ‘in which,’ said Mr. Skimpole, in the frankest manner, ‘he was perfectly right,’ the engagement terminated, and Mr. Skimpole having (as he added with delightful gaiety) ‘nothing to live upon but love, fell in love, and married, and surrounded himself with rosy cheeks.’ His good friend Jarndyce and some other of his good friends then helped him, in quicker or slower succession, to several openings in life, but to no purpose, for he must confess to two of the oldest infirmities in the world: one was that he had no idea of time, the other that he had no idea of money. In consequence of which he never kept an appointment, never could transact any business, and never knew the value of anything! Well! So he had got on in life, and here he was! He was very fond of reading the papers, very fond of making fancy-sketches with a pencil, very fond of nature, very fond of art. All he asked of society was to let him live. THAT wasn’t much. His wants were few. Give him the papers, conversation, music, mutton, coffee, landscape, fruit in the season, a few sheets of Bristol-board, and a little claret, and he asked no more. He was a mere child in the world, but he didn’t cry for the moon. He said to the world, ‘Go your several ways in peace! Wear red coats, blue coats, lawn sleeves; put pens behind your ears, wear aprons; go after glory, holiness, commerce, trade, any object you prefer; only—let Harold Skimpole live!’
我从谈话中了解到，斯金波尔先生接受过医学专业教育，并且曾经以专业身份生活在一位德国王子的家里。然而，他告诉我们，由于他在度量衡方面一直只是个孩子，对它们一无所知（除了它们让他感到厌恶），所以他从来无法以必要的细节准确性开处方。事实上，他说，他没有头脑去关注细节。他非常幽默地告诉我们，当他想要给王子放血或给他的任何人民治疗时，人们通常会发现他仰面躺在床上，看报纸或用铅笔画奇特的草图，但他却做不到。来吧。王子最后对此表示反对，“在这一点上，”斯金波尔先生以最坦率的方式说，“他是完全正确的，”订婚终止了，斯金波尔先生（他高兴地补充道）“他的好朋友贾迪斯和其他一些好朋友随后帮助他，或快或慢地接二连三地打开了人生的几个空缺，但是但这毫无意义，因为他必须承认世界上最古老的两个弱点：一是他不知道时间，二是他不知道金钱。结果他从来不赴约，永远做不了任何生意，也永远不知道任何东西的价值！出色地！所以他的生活已经开始了，而他就在这里！他很喜欢看报纸，很喜欢用铅笔画画，很喜欢自然，很喜欢艺术。他对社会的唯一要求就是让他活下去。这并不多。他的需求很少。 给他文件、谈话、音乐、羊肉、咖啡、风景、当季水果、几张布里斯托尔纸板和一点红葡萄酒，他就不再要求了。他只是世​​上的一个小孩子，却没有哭过月亮。他对世界说：‘平平安安地走好几条路吧！穿红色外套、蓝色外套、草坪袖；把笔放在耳后，戴上围裙；追求荣耀、圣洁、商业、贸易，任何你喜欢的目标；只是——让哈罗德·斯金波尔活下去！’

All this and a great deal more he told us, not only with the utmost brilliancy and enjoyment, but with a certain vivacious candour— speaking of himself as if he were not at all his own affair, as if Skimpole were a third person, as if he knew that Skimpole had his singularities but still had his claims too, which were the general business of the community and must not be slighted. He was quite enchanting. If I felt at all confused at that early time in endeavouring to reconcile anything he said with anything I had thought about the duties and accountabilities of life (which I am far from sure of), I was confused by not exactly understanding why he was free of them. That he WAS free of them, I scarcely doubted; he was so very clear about it himself.
所有这一切以及更多的事情，他不仅带着极大的才华和享受，而且带着某种活泼的坦率告诉我们——谈论他自己，就好像他根本不属于他自己的事情，就好像斯基姆波尔是第三者一样，就像如果他知道斯金波尔有他的独特之处，但也有他的主张，这是社区的一般事务，决不能忽视。他非常迷人。如果我在早期努力将他所说的一切与我对生活的义务和责任的想法（我对此还很不确定）进行调和时感到困惑，那么我是因为不完全理解为什么他是自由的而感到困惑。其中。我毫不怀疑他已经摆脱了它们。他自己对此非常清楚。

‘I covet nothing,’ said Mr. Skimpole in the same light way. ‘Possession is nothing to me. Here is my friend Jarndyce’s excellent house. I feel obliged to him for possessing it. I can sketch it and alter it. I can set it to music. When I am here, I have sufficient possession of it and have neither trouble, cost, nor responsibility. My steward’s name, in short, is Jarndyce, and he can’t cheat me. We have been mentioning Mrs. Jellyby. There is a bright-eyed woman, of a strong will and immense power of business detail, who throws herself into objects with surprising ardour! I don’t regret that I have not a strong will and an immense power of business detail to throw myself into objects with surprising ardour. I can admire her without envy. I can sympathize with the objects. I can dream of them. I can lie down on the grass—in fine weather—and float along an African river, embracing all the natives I meet, as sensible of the deep silence and sketching the dense overhanging tropical growth as accurately as if I were there. I don’t know that it’s of any direct use my doing so, but it’s all I can do, and I do it thoroughly. Then, for heaven’s sake, having Harold Skimpole, a confiding child, petitioning you, the world, an agglomeration of practical people of business habits, to let him live and admire the human family, do it somehow or other, like good souls, and suffer him to ride his rocking-horse!’
“我什么也不贪图，”斯金波尔先生以同样轻松的方式说道。 ‘占有对我来说不算什么。这是我朋友贾迪斯的漂亮房子。我对他拥有它感到感激。我可以画出它的草图并改变它。我可以将它设置为音乐。当我在这里的时候，我就拥有了它，既没有麻烦，也没有成本，也没有责任。简而言之，我的管家叫贾迪斯，他骗不了我。我们一直在提到杰利比夫人。有一个眼睛明亮的女人，意志坚强，在商业细节上有着巨大的力量，她以令人惊讶的热情投入到物体中！我并不后悔自己没有坚强的意志和巨大的商业细节能力，无法以令人惊讶的热情投入到事物中。我可以毫无嫉妒地欣赏她。我可以同情这些物体。我可以梦见他们。天气晴朗时，我可以躺在草地上，沿着非洲河流漂浮，拥抱我遇到的所有当地人，感受深深的寂静，准确地描绘出茂密的悬垂热带植物，就像我身临其境一样。我不知道我这样做有什么直接的用处，但这就是我能做的，而且我做得很彻底。然后，看在老天的份上，哈罗德·斯金波尔，一个值得信赖的孩子，请求你们，这个世界，一群具有商业习惯的务实之人，让他生活并钦佩人类大家庭，以某种方式这样做，像善良的灵魂一样，并且让他骑他的木马吧！

It was plain enough that Mr. Jarndyce had not been neglectful of the adjuration. Mr. Skimpole’s general position there would have rendered it so without the addition of what he presently said.
很明显，贾迪斯先生并没有忽视这一嘱咐。如果不加上他现在所说的话，斯金波尔先生在那里的一般立场也会造成这种情况。

‘It’s only you, the generous creatures, whom I envy,’ said Mr. Skimpole, addressing us, his new friends, in an impersonal manner. ‘I envy you your power of doing what you do. It is what I should revel in myself. I don’t feel any vulgar gratitude to you. I almost feel as if YOU ought to be grateful to ME for giving you the opportunity of enjoying the luxury of generosity. I know you like it. For anything I can tell, I may have come into the world expressly for the purpose of increasing your stock of happiness. I may have been born to be a benefactor to you by sometimes giving you an opportunity of assisting me in my little perplexities. Why should I regret my incapacity for details and worldly affairs when it leads to such pleasant consequences? I don’t regret it therefore.’
“我羡慕的只是你们，这些慷慨的生物，”斯金波尔先生以一种客观的方式对我们这些他的新朋友说道。 ‘我羡慕你做事的能力。这是我应该陶醉在自己身上的。我对你没有任何粗俗的感激之情。我几乎觉得你应该感谢我给你机会享受慷慨的奢侈。我知道你喜欢。据我所知，我来到这个世界上可能就是为了增加你的幸福感。我可能天生就是你的恩人，有时会给你机会帮助我解决我的小困惑。当我对细节和世俗事务的无能导致如此令人愉快的后果时，我为什么要后悔呢？因此我并不后悔。

Of all his playful speeches (playful, yet always fully meaning what they expressed) none seemed to be more to the taste of Mr. Jarndyce than this. I had often new temptations, afterwards, to wonder whether it was really singular, or only singular to me, that he, who was probably the most grateful of mankind upon the least occasion, should so desire to escape the gratitude of others.
在他所有的俏皮演讲中（俏皮，但总是充分表达他们所表达的意思）似乎没有比这更符合贾迪斯先生的口味了。后来，我常常受到新的诱惑，想知道这是否真的很奇怪，或者只是对我来说很奇怪，他，可能是人类在最小的情况下最感激的人，竟然如此渴望逃避别人的感激之情。

We were all enchanted. I felt it a merited tribute to the engaging qualities of Ada and Richard that Mr. Skimpole, seeing them for the first time, should he so unreserved and should lay himself out to be so exquisitely agreeable. They (and especially Richard) were naturally pleased; for similar reasons, and considered it no common privilege to be so freely confided in by such an attractive man. The more we listened, the more gaily Mr. Skimpole talked. And what with his fine hilarious manner and his engaging candour and his genial way of lightly tossing his own weaknesses about, as if he had said, ‘I am a child, you know! You are designing people compared with me’ (he really made me consider myself in that light) ‘but I am gay and innocent; forget your worldly arts and play with me!’ the effect was absolutely dazzling.
我们都着迷了。我觉得斯基姆波尔先生第一次见到艾达和理查德时，表现得如此毫无保留，表现得如此令人愉快，这是对艾达和理查德迷人品质的应有的赞扬。他们（尤其是理查德）自然很高兴。出于类似的原因，我认为能被这样一位有魅力的男人如此自由地倾诉，这并不是一种普遍的特权。我们听得越多，斯金波尔先生说得就越愉快。他那滑稽的举止、迷人的坦率，以及他轻松地抛掷自己的弱点的和蔼可亲的方式，就好像他在说：“我是个孩子，你知道！”你正在设计与我相比的人”（他确实让我从这个角度考虑自己）“但我是同性恋和无辜的;忘记你的世俗艺术，和我一起玩吧！”效果绝对令人眼花缭乱。

He was so full of feeling too and had such a delicate sentiment for what was beautiful or tender that he could have won a heart by that alone. In the evening, when I was preparing to make tea and Ada was touching the piano in the adjoining room and softly humming a tune to her cousin Richard, which they had happened to mention, he came and sat down on the sofa near me and so spoke of Ada that I almost loved him.
他也充满了感情，对美丽或温柔的事物有着如此微妙的感情，仅凭这一点他就可以赢得一颗心。晚上，当我准备泡茶时，艾达正在隔壁房间里弹钢琴，轻声哼着曲子给她的表弟理查德（他们碰巧提到过），他走过来坐在我旁边的沙发上，所以谈到艾达，我几乎爱上了他。

‘She is like the morning,’ he said. ‘With that golden hair, those blue eyes, and that fresh bloom on her cheek, she is like the summer morning. The birds here will mistake her for it. We will not call such a lovely young creature as that, who is a joy to all mankind, an orphan. She is the child of the universe.’
“她就像早晨，”他说。 “金色的头发，蓝色的眼睛，脸颊上绽放的花朵，她就像夏天的早晨。这里的鸟儿会误以为是她。我们不会称这样一个可爱的、为全人类带来欢乐的年轻人为孤儿。她是宇宙的孩子。

Mr. Jarndyce, I found, was standing near us with his hands behind him and an attentive smile upon his face.
我发现贾迪斯先生站在我们附近，双手放在身后，脸上挂着专注的微笑。

‘The universe,’ he observed, ‘makes rather an indifferent parent, I am afraid.’
“我担心，宇宙造就了一位冷漠的父母。”

‘Oh! I don’t know!’ cried Mr. Skimpole buoyantly.
'哦！我不知道！”斯金波尔先生高兴地喊道。

‘I think I do know,’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“我想我确实知道，”贾迪斯先生说。

‘Well!’ cried Mr. Skimpole. ‘You know the world (which in your sense is the universe), and I know nothing of it, so you shall have your way. But if I had mine,’ glancing at the cousins, ‘there should be no brambles of sordid realities in such a path as that. It should be strewn with roses; it should lie through bowers, where there was no spring, autumn, nor winter, but perpetual summer. Age or change should never wither it. The base word money should never be breathed near it!’
“好吧！”斯金波尔先生喊道。 ‘你了解这个世界（在你看来就是宇宙），而我对此一无所知，所以你可以随心所欲。但如果我有我的，”瞥了一眼表兄弟，“在这样的道路上就不应该有肮脏现实的荆棘。应该撒满玫瑰花；它应该穿过凉亭，那里没有春天、秋天或冬天，只有永恒的夏天。年龄或变化永远不会使它枯萎。根本不应该在它附近呼吸“钱”这个词！

Mr. Jarndyce patted him on the head with a smile, as if he had been really a child, and passing a step or two on, and stopping a moment, glanced at the young cousins. His look was thoughtful, but had a benignant expression in it which I often (how often!) saw again, which has long been engraven on my heart. The room in which they were, communicating with that in which he stood, was only lighted by the fire. Ada sat at the piano; Richard stood beside her, bending down. Upon the wall, their shadows blended together, surrounded by strange forms, not without a ghostly motion caught from the unsteady fire, though reflecting from motionless objects. Ada touched the notes so softly and sang so low that the wind, sighing away to the distant hills, was as audible as the music. The mystery of the future and the little clue afforded to it by the voice of the present seemed expressed in the whole picture.
贾迪斯先生微笑着拍拍他的头，仿佛他真的是个孩子，向前迈出一两步，停了下来，看了一眼年轻的表兄弟。他的眼神若有所思，但又带着一种我经常（多少次！）再次看到的和善的表情，这种表情早已铭刻在我的心上。他们所在的房间与他所站的房间相通，只有火光照亮。艾达坐在钢琴前；理查德站在她身边，弯下腰。在墙上，他们的影子混合在一起，周围都是奇怪的形状，虽然是从静止的物体反射出来的，但不乏从不稳定的火焰中捕捉到的幽灵般的动作。艾达触动的音符是如此轻柔，歌唱得如此低沉，以致风声吹向远山，也像音乐一样清晰可闻。未来的神秘和现在的声音所提供的一点线索似乎在整个画面中得到了表达。

But it is not to recall this fancy, well as I remember it, that I recall the scene. First, I was not quite unconscious of the contrast in respect of meaning and intention between the silent look directed that way and the flow of words that had preceded it. Secondly, though Mr. Jarndyce’s glance as he withdrew it rested for but a moment on me, I felt as if in that moment he confided to me— and knew that he confided to me and that I received the confidence —his hope that Ada and Richard might one day enter on a dearer relationship.
但我并不是为了回忆起这种幻想，而是为了回忆起它，而是为了回忆起那个场景。首先，我并没有完全意识到沉默的目光与之前的言语之间在意义和意图方面的对比。其次，虽然贾迪斯先生收回目光时只在我身上停留了一会儿，但我觉得在那一刻他向我吐露了心声——并且知道他向我吐露了心声，而且我得到了信任——他希望艾达和理查德可能有一天会建立一种更亲密的关系。

Mr. Skimpole could play on the piano and the violoncello, and he was a composer—had composed half an opera once, but got tired of it—and played what he composed with taste. After tea we had quite a little concert, in which Richard—who was enthralled by Ada’s singing and told me that she seemed to know all the songs that ever were written—and Mr. Jarndyce, and I were the audience. After a little while I missed first Mr. Skimpole and afterwards Richard, and while I was thinking how could Richard stay away so long and lose so much, the maid who had given me the keys looked in at the door, saying, ‘If you please, miss, could you spare a minute?’
斯金波尔先生会弹钢琴和大提琴，而且他是一位作曲家——曾经创作过半部歌剧，但已经厌倦了——并且演奏他所创作的作品很有品味。茶后，我们举行了一场小型音乐会，理查德——她被艾达的歌声迷住了，并告诉我她似乎知道所有曾经写过的歌曲——贾迪斯先生和我都是观众。过了一会儿，我先是想念斯金波尔先生，然后又想念理查德，当我在想理查德怎么能离开这么久，失去这么多时，给我钥匙的女仆朝门口看了一眼，说：“如果你拜托，小姐，您能抽出一点时间吗？

When I was shut out with her in the hall, she said, holding up her hands, ‘Oh, if you please, miss, Mr. Carstone says would you come upstairs to Mr. Skimpole’s room. He has been took, miss!’
当我和她一起被关在大厅里时，她举起双手说道：“哦，小姐，如果您愿意的话，卡斯顿先生说您可以上楼去斯金波尔先生的房间吗？”他已经被带走了，小姐！”

‘Took?’ said I.
“拿走了？”我说。

‘Took, miss. Sudden,’ said the maid.
‘接受了，小姐。太突然了。”女仆说道。

I was apprehensive that his illness might be of a dangerous kind, but of course I begged her to be quiet and not disturb any one and collected myself, as I followed her quickly upstairs, sufficiently to consider what were the best remedies to be applied if it should prove to be a fit. She threw open a door and I went into a chamber, where, to my unspeakable surprise, instead of finding Mr. Skimpole stretched upon the bed or prostrate on the floor, I found him standing before the fire smiling at Richard, while Richard, with a face of great embarrassment, looked at a person on the sofa, in a white great-coat, with smooth hair upon his head and not much of it, which he was wiping smoother and making less of with a pocket-handkerchief.
我担心他的病可能是一种危险的疾病，但我当然请求她保持安静，不要打扰任何人，然后我镇定下来，跟着她快速上楼，充分考虑如果发生这种情况，最好的治疗方法是什么。它应该被证明是合适的。她推开一扇门，我走进一间房间，令我无法形容的惊讶是，我没有发现斯金波尔先生四肢伸展地躺在床上或趴在地板上，而是发现他站在火边对理查德微笑，而理查德则带着微笑。他一脸尴尬地看着沙发上的一个人，穿着一件白色的大衣，头上的头发光滑，但头发不多，他正在用手帕把头发擦得更光滑、更少。

‘Miss Summerson,’ said Richard hurriedly, ‘I am glad you are come. You will be able to advise us. Our friend Mr. Skimpole—don’t be alarmed!—is arrested for debt.’
“萨默森小姐，”理查德急忙说道，“我很高兴你能来。您可以给我们提供建议。我们的朋友斯金波尔先生——别惊慌！——因债务被捕。

‘And really, my dear Miss Summerson,’ said Mr. Skimpole with his agreeable candour, ‘I never was in a situation in which that excellent sense and quiet habit of method and usefulness, which anybody must observe in you who has the happiness of being a quarter of an hour in your society, was more needed.’
“说实话，我亲爱的萨默森小姐，”斯金波尔先生以令人愉快的坦率说道，“我从来没有遇到过这样的情况，即任何人都必须在你身上观察到这种卓越的感觉和方法和有用的习惯。更需要在你们的社会中待上一刻钟。

The person on the sofa, who appeared to have a cold in his head, gave such a very loud snort that he startled me.
沙发上的那个人，看上去脑袋感冒了，鼻息声很大，把我吓了一跳。

‘Are you arrested for much, sir?’ I inquired of Mr. Skimpole.
“先生，你被捕的罪名很重吗？”我问斯金波尔先生。

‘My dear Miss Summerson,’ said he, shaking his head pleasantly, ‘I don’t know. Some pounds, odd shillings, and halfpence, I think, were mentioned.’
“我亲爱的萨默森小姐，”他愉快地摇着头说道，“我不知道。我想，其中提到了一些英镑、奇怪的先令和半便士。

‘It’s twenty-four pound, sixteen, and sevenpence ha’penny,’ observed the stranger. ‘That’s wot it is.’
“二十四镑十六便士半便士，”陌生人说道。 “就是这样。”

‘And it sounds—somehow it sounds,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘like a small sum?’
“听起来——不知怎的，”斯金波尔先生说，“就像一小笔钱？”

The strange man said nothing but made another snort. It was such a powerful one that it seemed quite to lift him out of his seat.
陌生男子什么也没说，只是又哼了一声。这股力量如此强大，似乎足以把他从座位上掀起来。

‘Mr. Skimpole,’ said Richard to me, ‘has a delicacy in applying to my cousin Jarndyce because he has lately—I think, sir, I understood you that you had lately—‘
'先生。斯金波尔，”理查德对我说，“对我表弟贾迪斯的申请很谨慎，因为他最近——我想，先生，我理解你，你最近——”

‘Oh, yes!’ returned Mr. Skimpole, smiling. ‘Though I forgot how much it was and when it was. Jarndyce would readily do it again, but I have the epicure-like feeling that I would prefer a novelty in help, that I would rather,’ and he looked at Richard and me, ‘develop generosity in a new soil and in a new form of flower.’
“哦，是的！”斯金波尔先生微笑着回答道。 “虽然我忘记了具体金额和具体时间。贾迪斯很乐意再做一次，但我有一种享乐主义者般的感觉，我更喜欢新奇的帮助，我宁愿，”他看着理查德和我，“在新的土壤和新的形式中发展慷慨的花。

‘What do you think will be best, Miss Summerson?’ said Richard, aside.
“你认为什么最好，萨默森小姐？”理查德在一旁说道。

I ventured to inquire, generally, before replying, what would happen if the money were not produced.
在回答之前，我一般大胆地询问，如果不生产钱会发生什么。

‘Jail,’ said the strange man, coolly putting his handkerchief into his hat, which was on the floor at his feet. ‘Or Coavinses.’
“监狱。”陌生人说道，冷静地将手帕塞进脚边地板上的帽子里。 “或者科文斯。”

‘May I ask, sir, what is—‘
“请问，先生，那是什么——”

‘Coavinses?’ said the strange man. ‘A ‘ouse.’
“科文斯？”奇怪的人问道。 “一个‘房子’。”

Richard and I looked at one another again. It was a most singular thing that the arrest was our embarrassment and not Mr. Skimpole’s. He observed us with a genial interest, but there seemed, if I may venture on such a contradiction, nothing selfish in it. He had entirely washed his hands of the difficulty, and it had become ours.
理查德和我再次对视了一眼。最奇怪的是，这次逮捕是我们的尴尬，而不是斯金波尔先生的尴尬。他怀着和善的兴趣观察着我们，但如果我可以冒昧地说一下这样的矛盾的话，他的态度似乎并没有什么自私的。他已经彻底摆脱了困难，而困难就变成了我们的。

‘I thought,’ he suggested, as if good-naturedly to help us out, ‘that being parties in a Chancery suit concerning (as people say) a large amount of property, Mr. Richard or his beautiful cousin, or both, could sign something, or make over something, or give some sort of undertaking, or pledge, or bond? I don’t know what the business name of it may be, but I suppose there is some instrument within their power that would settle this?’
“我想，”他建议道，仿佛是为了帮助我们摆脱困境，“作为一场涉及（正如人们所说的）大量财产的大法官诉讼的当事人，理查德先生或他美丽的表弟，或者两者都可以，签署某事，或转让某事，或作出某种承诺、保证或保证？我不知道它的商业名称是什么，但我想他们有某种能力范围内的工具可以解决这个问题？

‘Not a bit on it,’ said the strange man.
“一点也没有，”奇怪的人说。

‘Really?’ returned Mr. Skimpole. ‘That seems odd, now, to one who is no judge of these things!’
“真的吗？”斯金波尔先生回答道。 “现在，对于一个无法判断这些事情的人来说，这似乎很奇怪！”

‘Odd or even,’ said the stranger gruffly, ‘I tell you, not a bit on it!’
“奇数还是偶数，”陌生人粗声粗气地说，“我告诉你，一点也不重要！”

‘Keep your temper, my good fellow, keep your temper!’ Mr. Skimpole gently reasoned with him as he made a little drawing of his head on the fly-leaf of a book. ‘Don’t be ruffled by your occupation. We can separate you from your office; we can separate the individual from the pursuit. We are not so prejudiced as to suppose that in private life you are otherwise than a very estimable man, with a great deal of poetry in your nature, of which you may not be conscious.
“别发脾气，我的好朋友，别发脾气！”斯金波尔先生一边在书的扉页上画了他的头像，一边温和地劝说他。 ‘不要因为你的职业而烦恼。我们可以将您与办公室分开；我们可以将个人与追求分开。我们不会偏见地认为，在私人生活中，您不是一个非常值得尊敬的人，您的本性中蕴藏着大量的诗意，而您可能没有意识到这一点。

The stranger only answered with another violent snort, whether in acceptance of the poetry-tribute or in disdainful rejection of it, he did not express to me.
陌生人只是用又一声猛烈的哼哼作为回应，无论是接受诗歌致敬还是轻蔑地拒绝，他没有向我表达。

‘Now, my dear Miss Summerson, and my dear Mr. Richard,’ said Mr. Skimpole gaily, innocently, and confidingly as he looked at his drawing with his head on one side, ‘here you see me utterly incapable of helping myself, and entirely in your hands! I only ask to be free. The butterflies are free. Mankind will surely not deny to Harold Skimpole what it concedes to the butterflies!’
“现在，我亲爱的萨默森小姐，还有我亲爱的理查德先生，”斯金波尔先生一边低着头看着自己的画，一边高兴地、天真地、充满信心地说，“在这里，你们看到我完全无法帮助自己，并且完全掌握在您的手中！我只要求自由。蝴蝶是自由的。人类肯定不会否认哈罗德·斯金波尔对蝴蝶的让步！”

‘My dear Miss Summerson,’ said Richard in a whisper, ‘I have ten pounds that I received from Mr. Kenge. I must try what that will do.’
“我亲爱的萨默森小姐，”理查德低声说道，“我从肯吉先生那里收到了十英镑。我必须尝试这样做。

I possessed fifteen pounds, odd shillings, which I had saved from my quarterly allowance during several years. I had always thought that some accident might happen which would throw me suddenly, without any relation or any property, on the world and had always tried to keep some little money by me that I might not be quite penniless. I told Richard of my having this little store and having no present need of it, and I asked him delicately to inform Mr. Skimpole, while I should be gone to fetch it, that we would have the pleasure of paying his debt.
我有十五英镑零先令，这是我几年来从季度津贴中攒下来的。我一直以为可能会发生一些意外，让我突然抛到这个世界上，没有任何关系，也没有任何财产，所以我一直试图在身上保留一些小钱，以免我变得身无分文。我告诉理查德我有这家小商店，但目前不需要它，我小心翼翼地请他在我去拿东西的时候通知斯金波尔先生，我们很乐意偿还他的债务。

When I came back, Mr. Skimpole kissed my hand and seemed quite touched. Not on his own account (I was again aware of that perplexing and extraordinary contradiction), but on ours, as if personal considerations were impossible with him and the contemplation of our happiness alone affected him. Richard, begging me, for the greater grace of the transaction, as he said, to settle with Coavinses (as Mr. Skimpole now jocularly called him), I counted out the money and received the necessary acknowledgment. This, too, delighted Mr. Skimpole.
当我回来时，斯金波尔先生亲吻了我的手，似乎很感动。不是为了他自己（我再次意识到那种令人困惑和非同寻常的矛盾），而是为了我们，好像他不可能考虑个人因素，只有对我们幸福的思考才能影响他。理查德恳求我，按照他的说法，让交易更加顺利，与科文斯达成和解（斯金波尔先生现在戏谑地称呼他），我数出了钱，并得到了必要的确认。这也让斯金波尔先生很高兴。

His compliments were so delicately administered that I blushed less than I might have done and settled with the stranger in the white coat without making any mistakes. He put the money in his pocket and shortly said, ‘Well, then, I’ll wish you a good evening, miss.
他的恭维是如此微妙，以至于我比本来应该做的脸红得更少，并与穿着白大褂的陌生人和解，没有犯任何错误。他把钱放进口袋，简短地说：“好吧，那么，我祝你晚安，小姐。”

‘My friend,’ said Mr. Skimpole, standing with his back to the fire after giving up the sketch when it was half finished, ‘I should like to ask you something, without offence.’
“我的朋友，”斯金波尔先生在画了一半的草图后，背对着火站着，说道，“我想问你一件事，无意冒犯。”

I think the reply was, ‘Cut away, then!’
我认为答案是：“那就切掉吧！”

‘Did you know this morning, now, that you were coming out on this errand?’ said Mr. Skimpole.
“今天早上你知道你要出去执行这项任务吗？”斯金波尔先生说。

‘Know’d it yes’day aft’noon at tea-time,’ said Coavinses.
“昨天下午喝茶的时候就知道了，”科文斯说。

‘It didn’t affect your appetite? Didn’t make you at all uneasy?’
‘这没有影响你的食欲吗？没有让你感到不安吗？

‘Not a hit,’ said Coavinses. ‘I know’d if you wos missed to-day, you wouldn’t be missed to-morrow. A day makes no such odds.’
“不是很成功，”科文斯说。 “我知道如果你今天错过了，明天也不会错过你。”一天就没有这样的可能性。

‘But when you came down here,’ proceeded Mr. Skimpole, ‘it was a fine day. The sun was shining, the wind was blowing, the lights and shadows were passing across the fields, the birds were singing.’
“但是当你来到这里时，”斯金波尔先生继续说道，“那是一个晴朗的一天。阳光明媚，微风徐徐，光影掠过田野，鸟儿在歌唱。

‘Nobody said they warn’t, in MY hearing,’ returned Coavinses.
“在我看来，没有人说他们不会，”科文斯回答道。

‘No,’ observed Mr. Skimpole. ‘But what did you think upon the road?’
“不，”斯金波尔先生说。 “但是你在路上想到了什么？”

‘Wot do you mean?’ growled Coavinses with an appearance of strong resentment. ‘Think! I’ve got enough to do, and little enough to get for it without thinking. Thinking!’ (with profound contempt).
“你什么意思？”科文斯咆哮道，脸上露出强烈的怨恨。 '思考！我有足够多的事情要做，却又少得可以不假思索地去做。思考！”（带着深深的轻蔑）。

‘Then you didn’t think, at all events,’ proceeded Mr. Skimpole, ‘to this effect: ‘Harold Skimpole loves to see the sun shine, loves to hear the wind blow, loves to watch the changing lights and shadows, loves to hear the birds, those choristers in Nature’s great cathedral. And does it seem to me that I am about to deprive Harold Skimpole of his share in such possessions, which are his only birthright!’ You thought nothing to that effect?’
“那么，无论如何，你都没有想到，”斯金波尔先生继续说，“有这样的效果：‘哈罗德·斯金波尔喜欢看阳光，喜欢听风吹，喜欢看光影变化，喜欢看阳光。”聆听鸟儿的歌声，聆听大自然大教堂里唱诗班的歌声。在我看来，我似乎要剥夺哈罗德·斯金波尔在这些财产中的份额，这是他唯一与生俱来的权利！你对此没有想到吗？

‘I—certainly—did—NOT,’ said Coavinses, whose doggedness in utterly renouncing the idea was of that intense kind that he could only give adequate expression to it by putting a long interval between each word, and accompanying the last with a jerk that might have dislocated his neck.
“我——当然——没有——”科文斯说，他完全放弃了这个想法，他的态度是如此强烈，以至于他只能通过在每个词之间留出很长的间隔，并用猛拉的方式伴随着最后一个词来充分表达它。这可能会使他的脖子脱臼。

‘Very odd and very curious, the mental process is, in you men of business!’ said Mr. Skimpole thoughtfully. ‘Thank you, my friend. Good night.’
“你们这些商人的心理过程非常奇怪，也非常好奇！”斯金波尔先生若有所思地说。 '谢谢，我的朋友。晚安。'

As our absence had been long enough already to seem strange downstairs, I returned at once and found Ada sitting at work by the fireside talking to her cousin John. Mr. Skimpole presently appeared, and Richard shortly after him. I was sufficiently engaged during the remainder of the evening in taking my first lesson in backgammon from Mr. Jarndyce, who was very fond of the game and from whom I wished of course to learn it as quickly as I could in order that I might be of the very small use of being able to play when he had no better adversary. But I thought, occasionally, when Mr. Skimpole played some fragments of his own compositions or when, both at the piano and the violoncello, and at our table, he preserved with an absence of all effort his delightful spirits and his easy flow of conversation, that Richard and I seemed to retain the transferred impression of having been arrested since dinner and that it was very curious altogether.
由于我们离开的时间已经足够长，楼下已经显得很奇怪了，我立即回来，发现艾达坐在炉边工作，正在和她的表弟约翰说话。斯金波尔先生不久就出现了，理查德也紧随其后。那天晚上剩下的时间里，我全神贯注地从贾迪斯先生那里学了第一堂西洋双陆棋课，他非常喜欢这项游戏，我当然希望能尽快从他那里学会，这样我就可以当他没有更好的对手时，能够上场比赛的用处很小。但我有时想，当斯金波尔先生演奏他自己的作品的一些片段时，或者在钢琴和大提琴上以及在我们的餐桌上时，他毫不费力地保留了他愉快的精神和轻松的谈话，理查德和我似乎保留了晚餐后被捕的印象，这非常奇怪。

It was late before we separated, for when Ada was going at eleven o’clock, Mr. Skimpole went to the piano and rattled hilariously that the best of all ways to lengthen our days was to steal a few hours from night, my dear! It was past twelve before he took his candle and his radiant face out of the room, and I think he might have kept us there, if he had seen fit, until daybreak. Ada and Richard were lingering for a few moments by the fire, wondering whether Mrs. Jellyby had yet finished her dictation for the day, when Mr. Jarndyce, who had been out of the room, returned.
我们分开之前已经很晚了，因为当艾达十一点钟要走时，斯金波尔先生走到钢琴前，滑稽地说道，延长我们白天的最好方法就是从晚上偷几个小时，亲爱的！十二点多了，他才带着蜡烛和他容光焕发的脸走出了房间，我想如果他认为合适的话，他可能会让我们留在那里直到天亮。当贾迪斯先生离开房间时，艾达和理查德在火边逗留了一会儿，想知道杰利比夫人是否已经完成了当天的听写。

‘Oh, dear me, what’s this, what’s this!’ he said, rubbing his head and walking about with his good-humoured vexation. ‘What’s this they tell me? Rick, my boy, Esther, my dear, what have you been doing? Why did you do it? How could you do it? How much apiece was it? The wind’s round again. I feel it all over me!’
“哦，天哪，这是什么，这是什么！”他一边说，一边揉着头，带着幽默的烦恼走来走去。 ‘他们告诉我这是什么？里克，我的孩子，埃丝特，亲爱的，你最近在做什么？你为什么要那么做？你怎么能做到呢？多少钱一个呢？风又转了。我全身都感觉到了！

We neither of us quite knew what to answer.
我们都不知道该回答什么。

‘Come, Rick, come! I must settle this before I sleep. How much are you out of pocket? You two made the money up, you know! Why did you? How could you? Oh, Lord, yes, it’s due east—must be!’
‘来吧，瑞克，来吧！我必须在睡觉前解决这个问题。你的口袋里还剩多少钱？你们两个赚到钱了，知道吗！为什么你？你怎么能？哦，主啊，是的，是在正东——一定是！”

‘Really, sir,’ said Richard, ‘I don’t think it would be honourable in me to tell you. Mr. Skimpole relied upon us—‘
“说实话，先生，”理查德说，“我认为告诉你这件事对我来说并不光荣。斯金波尔先生信赖我们——”

‘Lord bless you, my dear boy! He relies upon everybody!’ said Mr. Jarndyce, giving his head a great rub and stopping short.
‘愿上帝保佑你，我亲爱的孩子！ “他依赖所有人！”贾迪斯先生说着，揉了揉他的头，然后突然停了下来。

‘Indeed, sir?’
“真的吗，先生？”

‘Everybody! And he’ll be in the same scrape again next week!’ said Mr. Jarndyce, walking again at a great pace, with a candle in his hand that had gone out. ‘He’s always in the same scrape. He was born in the same scrape. I verily believe that the announcement in the newspapers when his mother was confined was ‘On Tuesday last, at her residence in Botheration Buildings, Mrs. Skimpole of a son in difficulties.’’
'大家！下周他还会陷入同样的​​困境！”贾迪斯先生说道，他手里拿着一支已经熄灭的蜡烛，又大步走着。 “他总是陷入同样的​​困境。他也是在同样的困境中出生的。我确实相信，报纸上关于他母亲被监禁的消息是“上周二，在博瑟塞大厦的住所，斯金波尔夫人发现了一个陷入困境的儿子。”

Richard laughed heartily but added, ‘Still, sir, I don’t want to shake his confidence or to break his confidence, and if I submit to your better knowledge again, that I ought to keep his secret, I hope you will consider before you press me any more. Of course, if you do press me, sir, I shall know I am wrong and will tell you.’
理查德哈哈大笑，但又补充道：“不过，先生，我不想动摇他的信心或破坏他的信心，如果我再次向您屈服，我应该保守他的秘密，我希望您在之前考虑一下。”你再逼我吧。当然，如果您确实催促我，先生，我会知道我错了，并会告诉您。

‘Well!’ cried Mr. Jarndyce, stopping again, and making several absent endeavours to put his candlestick in his pocket. ‘I—here! Take it away, my dear. I don’t know what I am about with it; it’s all the wind—invariably has that effect—I won’t press you, Rick; you may be right. But really—to get hold of you and Esther—and to squeeze you like a couple of tender young Saint Michael’s oranges! It’ll blow a gale in the course of the night!’
“好吧！”贾迪斯先生叫道，他又停下来，心不在焉地几次想把他的烛台放进口袋里。 ‘我——在这里！把它拿走吧，亲爱的。我不知道我与它有什么关系；都是风——总是有这样的效果——我不会催促你，里克；也许你是对的。但真的——抓住你和埃丝特——并像挤压几个嫩嫩的圣迈克尔橙子一样挤压你们！晚上会刮大风！”

He was now alternately putting his hands into his pockets as if he were going to keep them there a long time, and taking them out again and vehemently rubbing them all over his head.
他现在时而把手插进口袋里，好像要把它们放在那里很长一段时间，时而又拿出来，用力地在头上摩擦。

I ventured to take this opportunity of hinting that Mr. Skimpole, being in all such matters quite a child—
我冒昧地借此机会暗示斯金波尔先生，在所有这些事情上还是个孩子——

‘Eh, my dear?’ said Mr. Jarndyce, catching at the word.
“呃，亲爱的？”贾迪斯先生明白了这个词，说道。

Being quite a child, sir,’ said I, ‘and so different from other people—‘
先生，我还是个孩子，”我说，“而且与其他人很不同——”

‘You are right!’ said Mr. Jarndyce, brightening. ‘Your woman’s wit hits the mark. He is a child—an absolute child. I told you he was a child, you know, when I first mentioned him.’
“你说得对！”贾迪斯先生说道，脸上的表情焕然一新。 ‘你女人的智慧达到了目的。他是个孩子——绝对的孩子。当我第一次提到他时，我告诉过你他还是个孩子。

Certainly! Certainly! we said.
当然！当然！我们说。

‘And he IS a child. Now, isn’t he?’ asked Mr. Jarndyce, brightening more and more.
“他还是个孩子。” “现在，不是吗？”贾迪斯先生问道，他的脸越来越亮了。

He was indeed, we said.
我们说，他确实是。

‘When you come to think of it, it’s the height of childishness in you—I mean me—‘ said Mr. Jarodyce, ‘to regard him for a moment as a man. You can’t make HIM responsible. The idea of Harold Skimpole with designs or plans, or knowledge of consequences! Ha, ha, ha!’
“你仔细想想，你——我是说我——”贾罗迪斯先生说，“暂时把他当作一个男人，这真是太孩子气了。”你不能让他负责。哈罗德·斯金波尔（Harold Skimpole）的想法，包括设计或计划，或对后果的了解！哈、哈、哈！

It was so delicious to see the clouds about his bright face clearing, and to see him so heartily pleased, and to know, as it was impossible not to know, that the source of his pleasure was the goodness which was tortured by condemning, or mistrusting, or secretly accusing any one, that I saw the tears in Ada’s eyes, while she echoed his laugh, and felt them in my own.
看到他明亮的脸上的云彩散去，看到他如此衷心地高兴，并且知道，因为不可能不知道，他的快乐的源泉是被谴责或折磨所折磨的善良，这是多么令人愉快。我不信任，或暗中指责任何人，因为我看到了艾达眼中的泪水，而她回应着他的笑声，并在我自己的笑声中感受到了它们。

‘Why, what a cod’s head and shoulders I am,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘to require reminding of it! The whole business shows the child from beginning to end. Nobody but a child would have thought of singling YOU two out for parties in the affair! Nobody but a child would have thought of YOUR having the money! If it had been a thousand pounds, it would have been just the same!’ said Mr. Jarndyce with his whole face in a glow.
“哎呀，我真是个混蛋，”贾迪斯先生说，“竟然需要提醒！”整个事情从头到尾都向孩子展示。除了小孩子之外，没有人会想到把你们两个挑出来参加这件事！除了孩子，没有人会想到你有钱！ “如果是一千英镑，也一样！”贾迪斯先生满脸红光地说。

We all confirmed it from our night’s experience.
我们都从我们晚上的经历中证实了这一点。

‘To be sure, to be sure!’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘However, Rick, Esther, and you too, Ada, for I don’t know that even your little purse is safe from his inexperience—I must have a promise all round that nothing of this sort shall ever be done any more. No advances! Not even sixpences.’
“当然，当然！”贾迪斯先生说。 “然而，里克、埃丝特，还有你，艾达，因为我不知道即使是你的小钱包也不会免受他缺乏经验的影响——我必须向所有人保证，再也不会做这样的事情了。”没有进展！连六便士都没有。

We all promised faithfully, Richard with a merry glance at me touching his pocket as if to remind me that there was no danger of OUR transgressing.
我们都忠实地答应了，理查德愉快地看了我一眼，摸了摸他的口袋，好像在提醒我，我们没有违法的危险。

‘As to Skimpole,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘a habitable doll’s house with good board and a few tin people to get into debt with and borrow money of would set the boy up in life. He is in a child’s sleep by this time, I suppose; it’s time I should take my craftier head to my more worldly pillow. Good night, my dears. God bless you!’
“至于斯基姆波尔，”贾迪斯先生说，“一个可以居住的玩偶之家，有良好的伙食，还有几个可以借钱的锡人，就能让这个男孩过上好日子。”我想这个时候他已经进入了孩子的睡眠状态。是时候我应该把我那狡猾的头脑放到我更世俗的枕头上了。晚安，亲爱的。上帝祝福你！'

He peeped in again, with a smiling face, before we had lighted our candles, and said, ‘Oh! I have been looking at the weather-cock. I find it was a false alarm about the wind. It’s in the south!’ And went away singing to himself.
在我们点燃蜡烛之前，他再次面带微笑地望了进来，说道：“哦！我一直在看风标。我发现这是一场关于风的虚假警报。在南方！”说着就唱着歌走了。

Ada and I agreed, as we talked together for a little while upstairs, that this caprice about the wind was a fiction and that he used the pretence to account for any disappointment he could not conceal, rather than he would blame the real cause of it or disparage or depreciate any one. We thought this very characteristic of his eccentric gentleness and of the difference between him and those petulant people who make the weather and the winds (particularly that unlucky wind which he had chosen for such a different purpose) the stalking-horses of their splenetic and gloomy humours.
当我们在楼上一起交谈了一会儿时，艾达和我一致认为，这种关于风的反复无常是虚构的，他用借口来解释他无法掩饰的任何失望，而不是责怪真正的原因。或贬低或贬低任何人。我们认为这正是他古怪的温柔的特征，也是他与那些任性的人之间的区别，这些人把天气和风（特别是他出于如此不同的目的而选择的不幸的风）作为他们脾气暴躁和阴沉的跟踪马。幽默。

Indeed, so much affection for him had been added in this one evening to my gratitude that I hoped I already began to understand him through that mingled feeling. Any seeming inconsistencies in Mr. Skimpole or in Mrs. Jellyby I could not expect to be able to reconcile, having so little experience or practical knowledge. Neither did I try, for my thoughts were busy when I was alone, with Ada and Richard and with the confidence I had seemed to receive concerning them. My fancy, made a little wild by the wind perhaps, would not consent to be all unselfish, either, though I would have persuaded it to be so if I could. It wandered back to my godmother’s house and came along the intervening track, raising up shadowy speculations which had sometimes trembled there in the dark as to what knowledge Mr. Jarndyce had of my earliest history—even as to the possibility of his being my father, though that idle dream was quite gone now.
确实，在这一天晚上，我对他的感情增添了如此多的感情，以至于我希望我已经开始通过这种复杂的感觉来理解他。斯金波尔先生或杰利比夫人身上任何看似不一致的地方，我都无法指望能够调和，因为我的经验或实践知识太少了。我也没有尝试，因为当我独自一人，与艾达和理查德在一起，以及我似乎对他们充满信心时，我的思绪很忙碌。我的幻想也许被风吹得有点疯狂，也不同意完全无私，尽管如果可以的话我会说服它如此。它漫步回到我教母的房子，沿着中间的小路走来，引发了一些模糊的猜测，这些猜测有时在黑暗中颤抖着，关于贾迪斯先生对我最早的历史有什么了解——甚至关于他是我父亲的可能性，尽管那个无聊的梦想现在已经完全消失了。

It was all gone now, I remembered, getting up from the fire. It was not for me to muse over bygones, but to act with a cheerful spirit and a grateful heart. So I said to myself, ‘Esther, Esther, Esther! Duty, my dear!’ and gave my little basket of housekeeping keys such a shake that they sounded like little bells and rang me hopefully to bed.
当我从火堆里站起来时，一切都消失了。我不是去缅怀过去的事情，而是以一种快乐的精神和一颗感恩的心去行动。所以我对自己说：‘以斯帖，以斯帖，以斯帖！责任，亲爱的！”然后摇晃着我装着家务钥匙的小篮子，声音就像小铃铛一样，满怀希望地把我叫到床上去。

CHAPTER VII
第七章


The Ghost’s Walk
幽灵之行

While Esther sleeps, and while Esther wakes, it is still wet weather down at the place in Lincolnshire. The rain is ever falling—drip, drip, drip—by day and night upon the broad flagged terracepavement, the Ghost’s Walk. The weather is so very bad down in Lincolnshire that the liveliest imagination can scarcely apprehend its ever being fine again. Not that there is any superabundant life of imagination on the spot, for Sir Leicester is not here (and, truly, even if he were, would not do much for it in that particular), but is in Paris with my Lady; and solitude, with dusky wings, sits brooding upon Chesney Wold.
当埃丝特睡觉时，当埃丝特醒来时，林肯郡的天气仍然潮湿。雨一直在下——滴、滴、滴——不分昼夜地落在宽阔的石板露台人行道上，即“幽灵步道”。林肯郡的天气非常糟糕，即使是最活跃的想象力也很难想象它会再次晴朗。并不是说现场有任何丰富的想象力，因为莱斯特爵士不在这里（事实上，即使他在，也不会在这方面做太多事情），而是和我的夫人一起在巴黎；孤独带着暗淡的翅膀，在切斯尼沃尔德上沉思。

There may be some motions of fancy among the lower animals at Chesney Wold. The horses in the stables—the long stables in a barren, red-brick court-yard, where there is a great bell in a turret, and a clock with a large face, which the pigeons who live near it and who love to perch upon its shoulders seem to be always consulting—THEY may contemplate some mental pictures of fine weather on occasions, and may be better artists at them than the grooms. The old roan, so famous for cross-country work, turning his large eyeball to the grated window near his rack, may remember the fresh leaves that glisten there at other times and the scents that stream in, and may have a fine run with the hounds, while the human helper, clearing out the next stall, never stirs beyond his pitchfork and birch-broom. The grey, whose place is opposite the door and who with an impatient rattle of his halter pricks his ears and turns his head so wistfully when it is opened, and to whom the opener says, ‘‘Woa grey, then, steady! Noabody wants you to-day!’ may know it quite as well as the man. The whole seemingly monotonous and uncompanionable half-dozen, stabled together, may pass the long wet hours when the door is shut in livelier communication than is held in the servants’ hall or at the Dedlock Arms, or may even beguile the time by improving (perhaps corrupting) the pony in the loose-box in the corner.
切斯尼沃尔德的低等动物中可能有一些奇思妙想。马厩里的马——在一个贫瘠的红砖庭院里的长长的马厩，那里的角楼里有一个大钟，还有一个大钟，住在它附近、喜欢栖息的鸽子在它的肩膀上似乎总是在咨询——他们有时可能会在脑海中思考一些好天气的画面，并且可能比新郎更擅长这些。老罗恩，以越野工作而闻名，将他的大眼球转向架子附近的格栅窗，可能会记得其他时候闪闪发光的新鲜叶子和涌入的气味，并且可能会与它一起奔跑。猎犬，而人类助手在清理下一个马厩时，却始终没有动过他的干草叉和桦木扫帚。灰人的位置就在门对面，当门打开时，他的缰绳不耐烦地刺痛了耳朵，渴望地转过头，开门的人对他说：“哇，灰人，稳住！”今天没有人想要你！”可能和那个男人一样清楚。整个看似单调、互不相干的六头马厩在一起，可能会在门关上时以比在仆人大厅或戴德洛克阿姆斯举行的更活跃的交流来度过漫长的潮湿时光，或者甚至可能通过改进来消磨时间（也许会腐蚀）角落里松散盒子里的小马。

So the mastiff, dozing in his kennel in the court-yard with his large head on his paws, may think of the hot sunshine when the shadows of the stable-buildings tire his patience out by changing and leave him at one time of the day no broader refuge than the shadow of his own house, where he sits on end, panting and growling short, and very much wanting something to worry besides himself and his chain. So now, half-waking and all-winking, he may recall the house full of company, the coach-houses full of vehicles, the stables fall of horses, and the out-buildings full of attendants upon horses, until he is undecided about the present and comes forth to see how it is. Then, with that impatient shake of himself, he may growl in the spirit, ‘Rain, rain, rain! Nothing but rain—and no family here!’ as he goes in again and lies down with a gloomy yawn.
因此，獒犬在院子里的狗舍里打瞌睡，把大头枕在爪子上，当马厩建筑的阴影在一天中的某个时候改变并离开他，耗尽他的耐心时，他可能会想到炎热的阳光。没有什么比他自己房子的影子更广阔的避难所了，他坐在那儿，气喘吁吁，短促地咆哮，除了他自己和他的锁链之外，他非常希望有什么事情可以担心。所以现在，他半梦半醒、眨着眼睛，可能会想起满是同伴的房子、满是车辆的马车房、马厩里的马匹、满是骑马侍从的附属建筑，直到他拿不定主意要做什么。现在并走出来看看它是怎样的。然后，随着自己不耐烦的摇晃，他可能会在精神中咆哮：“雨，雨，雨！”除了雨，什么也没有——而且这里没有家人！”他又走进去，阴沉地打了个哈欠，躺了下来。

So with the dogs in the kennel-buildings across the park, who have their resfless fits and whose doleful voices when the wind has been very obstinate have even made it known in the house itself— upstairs, downstairs, and in my Lady’s chamber. They may hunt the whole country-side, while the raindrops are pattering round their inactivity. So the rabbits with their self-betraying tails, frisking in and out of holes at roots of trees, may be lively with ideas of the breezy days when their ears are blown about or of those seasons of interest when there are sweet young plants to gnaw. The turkey in the poultry-yard, always troubled with a class-grievance (probably Christmas), may be reminiscent of that summer morning wrongfully taken from him when he got into the lane among the felled trees, where there was a barn and barley. The discontented goose, who stoops to pass under the old gateway, twenty feet high, may gabble out, if we only knew it, a waddling preference for weather when the gateway casts its shadow on the ground.
公园对面的狗舍里的狗也是如此，当风很大时，它们会焦躁不安，发出悲伤的声音，甚至在房子里——楼上、楼下和我夫人的房间里——都知道了。它们可能会在整个乡村狩猎，而雨滴却在它们无所事事的周围滴答作响。因此，那些带着自我背叛的尾巴，在树根洞里跳进跳出的兔子，可能会很活跃地想象着微风徐徐的日子，它们的耳朵被风吹动，或者那些有趣的季节，有甜蜜的幼苗可供啃咬。 。家禽场里的火鸡总是受到阶级不满（可能是圣诞节）的困扰，可能会让人想起那个夏天的早晨，当他走进被砍倒的树木间的小巷时，他被错误地从他身边夺走，那里有一个谷仓和大麦。这只心怀不满的鹅弯下腰，从二十英尺高的旧大门下经过，如果我们知道这一点，当大门将影子投射在地面上时，它可能会摇摇晃晃地发出对天气的偏爱。

Be this as it may, there is not much fancy otherwise stirring at Chesney Wold. If there be a little at any odd moment, it goes, like a little noise in that old echoing place, a long way and usually leads off to ghosts and mystery.
尽管如此，切斯尼沃尔德并没有太多令人兴奋的奇特之处。如果在任何奇怪的时刻出现一点点，它就会像那个古老的回声之地中的一点噪音一样，传得很远，通常会导致鬼魂和神秘。

It has rained so hard and rained so long down in Lincolnshire that Mrs. Rouncewell, the old housekeeper at Chesney Wold, has several times taken off her spectacles and cleaned them to make certain that the drops were not upon the glasses. Mrs. Rouncewell might have been sufficiently assured by hearing the rain, but that she is rather deaf, which nothing will induce her to believe. She is a fine old lady, handsome, stately, wonderfully neat, and has such a back and such a stomacher that if her stays should turn out when she dies to have been a broad old-fashioned family fire-grate, nobody who knows her would have cause to be surprised. Weather affects Mrs. Rouncewell little. The house is there in all weathers, and the house, as she expresses it, ‘is what she looks at.’ She sits in her room (in a side passage on the ground floor, with an arched window commanding a smooth quadrangle, adorned at regular intervals with smooth round trees and smooth round blocks of stone, as if the trees were going to play at bowls with the stones), and the whole house reposes on her mind. She can open it on occasion and be busy and fluttered, but it is shut up now and lies on the breadth of Mrs. Rouncewell’s iron-bound bosom in a majestic sleep.
林肯郡的雨下得很大，时间也很长，切斯尼沃尔德的老管家朗斯韦尔夫人好几次摘下眼镜清洗，以确保雨滴没有落在眼镜上。朗斯韦尔夫人听到下雨的声音也许就足够放心了，但她耳朵聋了，没有什么能让她相信这一点。她是一位漂亮的老太太，英俊、庄重、非常整洁，而且有这样的背影和肚兜，如果她留下来，当她死后就会变成一个宽阔的老式家庭壁炉，没有人认识她我们有理由感到惊讶。天气对朗斯韦尔夫人影响不大。房子在任何天气都在那里，正如她所说，房子“就是她所看到的。”她坐在自己的房间里（在一楼的一条侧廊里，有一扇拱形窗户，俯瞰着一个光滑的四边形，装饰着每隔一段时间就有光滑的圆树和光滑的圆石块，就好像树木要和石头玩碗一样），整个房子都在她的脑海里。她偶尔会打开它，忙忙碌碌，心神不定，但现在它已经关上了，躺在朗斯韦尔夫人铁箍般的胸怀上，酣然入睡。

It is the next difficult thing to an impossibility to imagine Chesney Wold without Mrs. Rouncewell, but she has only been here fifty years. Ask her how long, this rainy day, and she shall answer ‘fifty year, three months, and a fortnight, by the blessing of heaven, if I live till Tuesday.’ Mr. Rouncewell died some time before the decease of the pretty fashion of pig-tails, and modestly hid his own (if he took it with him) in a corner of the churchyard in the park near the mouldy porch. He was born in the market-town, and so was his young widow. Her progress in the family began in the time of the last Sir Leicester and originated in the still-room.
这是下一件困难的事情，无法想象没有朗斯韦尔夫人的切斯尼沃尔德，但她来这里才五十年。问她这个下雨天还有多久，她会回答“如果我能活到星期二，就靠上天的保佑，五十年零三个月零两周了。”朗斯韦尔先生在这位漂亮时尚人士去世前不久就去世了。辫子，并谦虚地将自己的辫子（如果他随身携带的话）藏在发霉的门廊附近的公园教堂墓地的一角。他出生在集镇，他年轻的遗孀也是如此。她在家族中的进步始于末代莱斯特爵士时代，起源于静室。

The present representative of the Dedlocks is an excellent master. He supposes all his dependents to be utterly bereft of individual characters, intentions, or opinions, and is persuaded that he was born to supersede the necessity of their having any. If he were to make a discovery to the contrary, he would be simply stunned—would never recover himself, most likely, except to gasp and die. But he is an excellent master still, holding it a part of his state to be so. He has a great liking for Mrs. Rouncewell; he says she is a most respectable, creditable woman. He always shakes hands with her when he comes down to Chesney Wold and when he goes away; and if he were very ill, or if he were knocked down by accident, or run over, or placed in any situation expressive of a Dedlock at a disadvantage, he would say if he could speak, ‘Leave me, and send Mrs. Rouncewell here!’ feeling his dignity, at such a pass, safer with her than with anybody else.
戴洛克家族现在的代表是一位出色的大师。他认为他所有的下属都完全没有个性、意图或观点，并相信他生来就是为了取代他们拥有任何个性、意图或观点的必要性。如果他发现了相反的情况，他只会感到震惊——很可能永远无法恢复过来，除了喘息而死。但他仍然是一位出色的大师，认为这是他状态的一部分。他非常喜欢朗斯韦尔夫人。他说她是一位最值得尊敬、最值得信赖的女性。当他来到切斯尼沃尔德和离开时，他总是与她握手。如果他病得很重，或者他被意外撞倒，或者被碾过，或者处于任何一种戴德洛克处于不利地位的情况，他会说，如果他能说话，“离开我，派朗斯韦尔夫人去”在这里！”感觉到他的尊严，在这样的时刻，和她在一起比和其他人在一起更安全。

Mrs. Rouncewell has known trouble. She has had two sons, of whom the younger ran wild, and went for a soldier, and never came back. Even to this hour, Mrs. Rouncewell’s calm hands lose their composure when she speaks of him, and unfolding themselves from her stomacher, hover about her in an agitated manner as she says what a likely lad, what a fine lad, what a gay, good-humoured, clever lad he was! Her second son would have been provided for at Chesney Wold and would have been made steward in due season, but he took, when he was a schoolboy, to constructing steam-engines out of saucepans and setting birds to draw their own water with the least possible amount of labour, so assisting them with artful contrivance of hydraulic pressure that a thirsty canary had only, in a literal sense, to put his shoulder to the wheel and the job was done. This propensity gave Mrs. Rouncewell great uneasiness. She felt it with a mother’s anguish to be a move in the Wat Tyler direction, well knowing that Sir Leicester had that general impression of an aptitude for any art to which smoke and a tall chimney might be considered essential. But the doomed young rebel (otherwise a mild youth, and very persevering), showing no sign of grace as he got older but, on the contrary, constructing a model of a power-loom, she was fain, with many tears, to mention his backslidings to the baronet. ‘Mrs. Rouncewell,’ said Sir Leicester, ‘I can never consent to argue, as you know, with any one on any subject. You had better get rid of your boy; you had better get him into some Works. The iron country farther north is, I suppose, the congenial direction for a boy with these tendencies.’ Farther north he went, and farther north he grew up; and if Sir Leicester Dedlock ever saw him when he came to Chesney Wold to visit his mother, or ever thought of him afterwards, it is certain that he only regarded him as one of a body of some odd thousand conspirators, swarthy and grim, who were in the habit of turning out by torchlight two or three nights in the week for unlawful purposes.
朗斯韦尔夫人知道有麻烦。她有两个儿子，小儿子离家出走，当了兵，再也没有回来。即使到了这个时候，朗斯韦尔夫人一谈到他，那双平静的手就失去了平静，从她的肚兜里伸出来，以一种激动的方式在她周围盘旋，她说，多么有可能的小伙子，多么优秀的小伙子，多么快乐的小伙子，他真是个幽默又聪明的小伙子！她的第二个儿子本可以在切斯尼沃尔德得到照顾，并在适当的时候被任命为管家，但当他还是个学童时，他就开始用平底锅建造蒸汽机，并让鸟儿用最少的钱自己汲水。可能需要大量的劳动力，所以用巧妙的液压装置来帮助他们，从字面意义上讲，口渴的金丝雀只需将肩膀放在方向盘上，工作就完成了。这种倾向让朗斯韦尔夫人感到非常不安。她带着母亲的痛苦感受到向瓦特·泰勒方向的转变，因为她很清楚莱斯特爵士对任何艺术的天赋都有普遍的印象，而烟雾和高大的烟囱可能被认为是必不可少的。但这位注定失败的年轻叛逆者（否则是一个温和的年轻人，而且非常有毅力），随着年龄的增长，她没有表现出任何优雅的迹象，但相反，她建造了一个动力织布机的模型，她很乐意，流着很多眼泪，提及他倒退到从男爵身边。 '太太。朗斯韦尔，”莱斯特爵士说道，“正如你所知，我永远不会同意与任何人就任何问题进行争论。你最好摆脱你的孩子；你最好让他参加一些作品。我想，对于有这些倾向的男孩来说，更北边的钢铁之国是一个合适的方向。’他去了更远的北方，他在更远的北方长大；如果莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士来切斯尼沃尔德探望母亲时曾见过他，或者事后想起过他，那么可以肯定的是，他只是将他视为一千多名阴谋者中的一员，他们皮肤黝黑，面目狰狞。习惯于每周两三个晚上打着火把外出，进行非法活动。

Nevertheless, Mrs. Rouncewell’s son has, in the course of nature and art, grown up, and established himself, and married, and called unto him Mrs. Rouncewell’s grandson, who, being out of his apprenticeship, and home from a journey in far countries, whither he was sent to enlarge his knowledge and complete his preparations for the venture of this life, stands leaning against the chimneypiece this very day in Mrs. Rouncewell’s room at Chesney Wold.
尽管如此，朗斯韦尔夫人的儿子在自然和艺术的过程中长大了，确立了自己的地位，结婚了，并把朗斯韦尔夫人的孙子叫来，他已经结束学徒期，从远方旅行回家了。就在今天，他在切斯尼沃尔德的朗斯韦尔夫人的房间里，靠着烟囱站着。

‘And, again and again, I am glad to see you, Watt! And, once again, I am glad to see you, Watt!’ says Mrs. Rouncewell. ‘You are a fine young fellow. You are like your poor uncle George. Ah!’ Mrs. Rouncewell’s hands unquiet, as usual, on this reference.
“而且，一次又一次，我很高兴见到你，瓦特！而且，我再次很高兴见到你，瓦特！”朗斯韦尔夫人说道。 ‘你是一个优秀的年轻人。你就像你可怜的乔治叔叔。啊！”说到这里，朗斯韦尔夫人的手像往常一样不平静。

‘They say I am like my father, grandmother.’
“他们说我就像我的父亲、祖母。”

‘Like him, also, my dear—but most like your poor uncle George! And your dear father.’ Mrs. Rouncewell folds her hands again. ‘He is well?’
“也像他，亲爱的——但最像你可怜的乔治叔叔！”还有你亲爱的父亲。”朗斯韦尔夫人再次双手合十。 “他还好吗？”

‘Thriving, grandmother, in every way.’
“祖母，在各方面都很繁荣。”

‘I am thankful!’ Mrs. Rouncewell is fond of her son but has a plaintive feeling towards him, much as if he were a very honourable soldier who had gone over to the enemy.
“我很感激！”朗斯韦尔夫人很喜欢她的儿子，但对他有一种哀伤的感觉，就像他是一个投敌的非常光荣的士兵一样。

‘He is quite happy?’ says she.
“他很高兴？”她说。

‘Quite.’
'相当。'

‘I am thankful! So he has brought you up to follow in his ways and has sent you into foreign countries and the like? Well, he knows best. There may be a world beyond Chesney Wold that I don’t understand. Though I am not young, either. And I have seen a quantity of good company too!’
'我很感激！所以他把你养大，让你追随他的道路，并把你送到国外等等？嗯，他最了解。切斯尼沃尔德之外可能还有一个我不理解的世界。虽然我也不年轻了。我也见过很多好伙伴！

‘Grandmother,’ says the young man, changing the subject, ‘what a very pretty girl that was I found with you just now. You called her Rosa?’
“祖母，”年轻人改变了话题，“我刚才发现你和你在一起是一个非常漂亮的女孩。”你叫她罗莎？

‘Yes, child. She is daughter of a widow in the village. Maids are so hard to teach, now-a-days, that I have put her about me young. She’s an apt scholar and will do well. She shows the house already, very pretty. She lives with me at my table here.’
‘是的，孩子。她是村里一个寡妇的女儿。现在的女佣太难教了，所以我从小就把她放在我身边。她是一位聪明的学者，并且会做得很好。她已经展示了房子，非常漂亮。她和我一起住在我的餐桌旁。

‘I hope I have not driven her away?’
“我希望我没有把她赶走吧？”

‘She supposes we have family affairs to speak about, I dare say. She is very modest. It is a fine quality in a young woman. And scarcer,’ says Mrs. Rouncewell, expanding her stomacher to its utmost limits, ‘than it formerly was!’
“我敢说，她认为我们有家庭事务要谈。”她很谦虚。这是年轻女子的优良品质。 “而且比以前更稀缺了，”朗斯韦尔夫人一边说，一边将她的胃撑到了极限，“比以前更稀缺了！”

The young man inclines his head in acknowledgment of the precepts of experience. Mrs. Rouncewell listens.
年轻人歪着头，承认经验的教训。朗斯韦尔夫人听着。

‘Wheels!’ says she. They have long been audible to the younger ears of her companion. ‘What wheels on such a day as this, for gracious sake?’
“轮子！”她说。这些声音早已被她同伴年轻的耳朵听到了。 “看在上帝的份上，在这样的日子里发生了什么？”

After a short interval, a tap at the door. ‘Come in!’ A darkeyed, dark-haired, shy, village beauty comes in—so fresh in her rosy and yet delicate bloom that the drops of rain which have beaten on her hair look like the dew upon a flower fresh gathered.
过了一会儿，门外响起了敲门声。 “进来吧！”一位黑眼睛、黑头发、害羞的乡村美女进来了——她的玫瑰色的花朵显得那么清新，而打在她头发上的雨滴看起来就像新鲜采集的花朵上的露珠。

‘What company is this, Rosa?’ says Mrs. Rouncewell.
“罗莎，这是什么公司？”朗斯韦尔夫人说。

‘It’s two young men in a gig, ma’am, who want to see the house— yes, and if you please, I told them so!’ in quick reply to a gesture of dissent from the housekeeper. ‘I went to the hall-door and told them it was the wrong day and the wrong hour, but the young man who was driving took off his hat in the wet and begged me to bring this card to you.’
“女士，有两个年轻人想看房子——是的，如果您愿意的话，我已经告诉他们了！”管家做出了反对的姿态，她迅速做出了回应。 “我走到大厅门口，告诉他们今天是错误的日期和错误的时间，但是开车的年轻人在湿漉漉的情况下脱下了帽子，恳求我把这张卡片带给你。”

‘Read it, my dear Watt,’ says the housekeeper.
“读一下吧，亲爱的瓦特，”管家说。

Rosa is so shy as she gives it to him that they drop it between them and almost knock their foreheads together as they pick it up. Rosa is shyer than before.
罗莎把它递给他时非常害羞，以至于他们把它放在他们中间，捡起来时几乎把额头撞到了一起。罗莎比以前更害羞了。

‘Mr. Guppy’ is all the information the card yields.
'先生。 Guppy’是卡片产生的所有信息。

‘Guppy!’ repeats Mrs. Rouncewell, ‘MR. Guppy! Nonsense, I never heard of him!’
“孔雀鱼！”​​朗斯韦尔夫人重复道，“先生。”孔雀鱼！胡说，我从来没有听说过他！

‘If you please, he told ME that!’ says Rosa. ‘But he said that he and the other young gentleman came from London only last night by the mail, on business at the magistrates’ meeting, ten miles off, this morning, and that as their business was soon over, and they had heard a great deal said of Chesney Wold, and really didn’t know what to do with themselves, they had come through the wet to see it. They are lawyers. He says he is not in Mr. Tulkinghorn’s office, but he is sure he may make use of Mr. Tulkinghorn’s name if necessary.’ Finding, now she leaves off, that she has been making quite a long speech, Rosa is shyer than ever.
“如果你愿意的话，他告诉我了！​​”罗莎说。但他说，他和另一位年轻绅士昨晚才从伦敦邮寄过来，今天早上在十英里外的治安法官会议上出差，当他们的生意很快结束时，他们听到了人们对切斯尼沃尔德的评价很高，他们真的不知道自己该怎么办，他们是冒着雨来看看的。他们是律师。他说他不在图尔金霍恩先生的办公室，但他确信如果有必要，他可能会使用图尔金霍恩先生的名字。”现在她停下来，发现自己已经做了很长的演讲，罗莎比以前更害羞了。 。

Now, Mr. Tulkinghorn is, in a manner, part and parcel of the place, and besides, is supposed to have made Mrs. Rouncewell’s will. The old lady relaxes, consents to the admission of the visitors as a favour, and dismisses Rosa. The grandson, however, being smitten by a sudden wish to see the house himself, proposes to join the party. The grandmother, who is pleased that he should have that interest, accompanies him—though to do him justice, he is exceedingly unwilling to trouble her.
现在，从某种意义上说，图金霍恩先生是这个地方不可分割的一部分，此外，他还应该制定了朗斯韦尔夫人的遗嘱。老太太放松下来，同意让访客进来作为一个恩惠，然后打发罗莎出去。然而，孙子突然想亲自看看房子，提议加入这个聚会。祖母很高兴他有这种兴趣，陪着他——不过公平地说，他非常不愿意麻烦她。

‘Much obliged to you, ma’am!’ says Mr. Guppy, divesting himself of his wet dreadnought in the hall. ‘Us London lawyers don’t often get an out, and when we do, we like to make the most of it, you know.’
“非常感谢您，女士！”古皮先生在大厅里脱下湿漉漉的无畏舰说道。 “我们伦敦的律师不常出去，但当我们出去时，我们喜欢充分利用它，你知道的。”

The old housekeeper, with a gracious severity of deportment, waves her hand towards the great staircase. Mr. Guppy and his friend follow Rosa; Mrs. Rouncewell and her grandson follow them; a young gardener goes before to open the shutters.
老管家举止优雅、严肃，向大楼梯挥手。古比先生和他的朋友跟随罗莎。朗斯韦尔夫人和她的孙子跟在他们后面。一位年轻的园丁走在前面打开百叶窗。

As is usually the case with people who go over houses, Mr. Guppy and his friend are dead beat before they have well begun. They straggle about in wrong places, look at wrong things, don’t care for the right things, gape when more rooms are opened, exhibit profound depression of spirits, and are clearly knocked up. In each successive chamber that they enter, Mrs. Rouncewell, who is as upright as the house itself, rests apart in a window-seat or other such nook and listens with stately approval to Rosa’s exposition. Her grandson is so attentive to it that Rosa is shyer than ever— and prettier. Thus they pass on from room to room, raising the pictured Dedlocks for a few brief minutes as the young gardener admits the light, and reconsigning them to their graves as he shuts it out again. It appears to the afflicted Mr. Guppy and his inconsolable friend that there is no end to the Dedlocks, whose family greatness seems to consist in their never having done anything to distinguish themselves for seven hundred years.
正如人们巡视房屋时通常会遇到的情况一样，古比先生和他的朋友在开始之前就已经筋疲力尽了。他们在错误的地方徘徊，看错误的东西，不关心正确的事情，当更多的房间打开时，他们会张口结舌，表现出严重的精神沮丧，并且明显感到精神恍惚。在他们连续进入的每一个房间里，朗斯韦尔夫人都像房子本身一样笔直，坐在靠窗的座位或其他类似的角落里，带着庄严的认可聆听罗莎的讲解。她的孙子对此如此关注，罗莎变得比以前更害羞，也更漂亮。就这样，他们从一个房间走到另一个房间，当年轻的园丁让光进来时，他们把图中的戴洛克举起几分钟，当他再次把光关起来时，他们又把它们重新送进坟墓。在饱受折磨的古比先生和他伤心欲绝的朋友看来，戴德洛克家族似乎没有尽头，他们家族的伟大之处似乎在于他们七百年来从未做过任何让自己出类拔萃的事情。

Even the long drawing-room of Chesney Wold cannot revive Mr. Guppy’s spirits. He is so low that he droops on the threshold and has hardly strength of mind to enter. But a portrait over the chimney-piece, painted by the fashionable artist of the day, acts upon him like a charm. He recovers in a moment. He stares at it with uncommon interest; he seems to be fixed and fascinated by it.
即使是切斯尼沃尔德的长客厅也无法让孔雀先生重拾精神。他的身子太低了，耷拉在门槛上，几乎没有力气进去。但壁炉架上一幅由当时的时尚艺术家所画的肖像却对他产生了魔力。片刻之后他就恢复了过来。他以异乎寻常的兴趣盯着它。他似乎对此着迷并着迷。

‘Dear me!’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘Who’s that?’
“天哪！”孔雀先生说。 '那是谁？'

‘The picture over the fire-place,’ says Rosa, ‘is the portrait of the present Lady Dedlock. It is considered a perfect likeness, and the best work of the master.’
“壁炉上方的那幅画，”罗莎说，“是现在的戴德洛克夫人的肖像。它被认为是完美的肖像，也是大师最好的作品。

‘‘Blest,’ says Mr. Guppy, staring in a kind of dismay at his friend, ‘if I can ever have seen her. Yet I know her! Has the picture been engraved, miss?’
“天哪，”古比先生说道，他用一种沮丧的眼神看着他的朋友，“如果我能见到她就好了。”但我认识她！小姐，这幅画被雕刻了吗？

‘The picture has never been engraved. Sir Leicester has always refused permission.’
“这幅画从未被雕刻过。莱斯特爵士总是拒绝许可。

‘Well!’ says Mr. Guppy in a low voice. ‘I’ll be shot if it ain’t very curious how well I know that picture! So that’s Lady Dedlock, is it!’
“好吧！”孔雀先生低声说道。 “如果不是很好奇我对那张照片有多了解，我就会被枪杀！”这就是戴德洛克夫人，是吗！

‘The picture on the right is the present Sir Leicester Dedlock. The picture on the left is his father, the late Sir Leicester.’
“右边的照片是现在的莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士。左边的照片是他的父亲，已故的莱斯特爵士。

Mr. Guppy has no eyes for either of these magnates. ‘It’s unaccountable to me,’ he says, still staring at the portrait, ‘how well I know that picture! I’m dashed,’ adds Mr. Guppy, looking round, ‘if I don’t think I must have had a dream of that picture, you know!’
古比先生对这两位巨头都没有兴趣。 “这对我来说是无法解释的，”他说道，仍然盯着那幅画像，“我对那幅画是多么熟悉啊！”我很沮丧，”古比先生环顾四周补充道，“如果我不认为我一定梦见过那张照片，你知道的！”

As no one present takes any especial interest in Mr. Guppy’s dreams, the probability is not pursued. But he still remains so absorbed by the portrait that he stands immovable before it until the young gardener has closed the shutters, when he comes out of the room in a dazed state that is an odd though a sufficient substitute for interest and follows into the succeeding rooms with a confused stare, as if he were looking everywhere for Lady Dedlock again.
由于在场没有人对古比先生的梦有特别的兴趣，所以没有追究概率。但他仍然全神贯注地沉浸在这幅肖像中，一动不动地站在肖像前，直到年轻的园丁关上百叶窗，当他带着茫然的状态走出房间时，这种状态很奇怪，但足以替代兴趣，然后进入接下来的场景。他眼神迷茫，仿佛又在到处寻找戴德洛克夫人。

He sees no more of her. He sees her rooms, which are the last shown, as being very elegant, and he looks out of the windows from which she looked out, not long ago, upon the weather that bored her to death. All things have an end, even houses that people take infinite pains to see and are tired of before they begin to see them. He has come to the end of the sight, and the fresh village beauty to the end of her description; which is always this: ‘The terrace below is much admired. It is called, from an old story in the family, the Ghost’s Walk.’
他再也见不到她了。他看到她的房间，也就是最后展示的，非常优雅，他从她不久前向外眺望的窗户里望去，看到了让她无聊得要死的天气。万物皆有终结，即使是人们费尽心力去看、见厌了的房子也是如此。他已经走到了视线的尽头，清新的乡村美景也走到了她描述的尽头；总是这样的：“下面的露台非常令人欣赏。”根据家族中的一个古老故事，它被称为“幽灵之行”。

‘No?’ says Mr. Guppy, greedily curious. ‘What’s the story, miss? Is it anything about a picture?’
“没有？”古皮先生好奇地说。 ‘小姐，这是什么故事？是关于照片的事吗？

‘Pray tell us the story,’ says Watt in a half whisper.
“请告诉我们这个故事，”瓦特低声说道。

‘I don’t know it, sir.’ Rosa is shyer than ever.
“我不知道，先生。”罗莎比以前更害羞了。

‘It is not related to visitors; it is almost forgotten,’ says the housekeeper, advancing. ‘It has never been more than a family anecdote.’
“这与访客无关； “它几乎被遗忘了。”管家边走边说道。 “这只不过是一个家庭轶事。”

‘You’ll excuse my asking again if it has anything to do with a picture, ma’am,’ observes Mr. Guppy, ‘because I do assure you that the more I think of that picture the better I know it, without knowing how I know it!’
“请原谅我再次询问这是否与一幅画有关，女士，”古比先生评论道，“因为我向你保证，我对那幅画想得越多，我就越了解它，但我并不知道我怎么知道的！

The story has nothing to do with a picture; the housekeeper can guarantee that. Mr. Guppy is obliged to her for the information and is, moreover, generally obliged. He retires with his friend, guided down another staircase by the young gardener, and presently is heard to drive away. It is now dusk. Mrs. Rouncewell can trust to the discretion of her two young hearers and may tell THEM how the terrace came to have that ghostly name.
这个故事与图片无关；管家可以保证。古比先生有义务向她提供这些信息，而且一般来说也有义务。他和他的朋友一起退休，在年轻的园丁的引导下走下另一个楼梯，不久就听到开车离开的声音。现在已经是黄昏了。朗斯韦尔夫人可以相信她的两位年轻听众的判断力，并可能告诉他们露台是如何拥有这个幽灵般的名字的。

She seats herself in a large chair by the fast-darkening window and tells them: ‘In the wicked days, my dears, of King Charles the First—I mean, of course, in the wicked days of the rebels who leagued themselves against that excellent king—Sir Morbury Dedlock was the owner of Chesney Wold. Whether there was any account of a ghost in the family before those days, I can’t say. I should think it very likely indeed.’
她坐在快速变暗的窗户旁的一张大椅子上，告诉他们：“亲爱的，在查理一世国王的邪恶日子里——我当然是指在那些联合起来反抗国王的叛乱者的邪恶日子里。”杰出的国王——莫伯里·戴德洛克爵士是切斯尼沃尔德的主人。之前家里是否有过鬼魂的记载，我不敢说。我认为确实很有可能。

Mrs. Rouncewell holds this opinion because she considers that a family of such antiquity and importance has a right to a ghost. She regards a ghost as one of the privileges of the upper classes, a genteel distinction to which the common people have no claim.
朗斯韦尔夫人持有这种观点，因为她认为一个如此古老和重要的家庭有权拥有鬼魂。她认为鬼魂是上层阶级的特权之一，是普通人无权享有的上流社会的特权。

‘Sir Morbury Dedlock,’ says Mrs. Rouncewell, ‘was, I have no occasion to say, on the side of the blessed martyr. But it IS supposed that his Lady, who had none of the family blood in her veins, favoured the bad cause. It is said that she had relations among King Charles’s enemies, that she was in correspondence with them, and that she gave them information. When any of the country gentlemen who followed his Majesty’s cause met here, it is said that my Lady was always nearer to the door of their council-room than they supposed. Do you hear a sound like a footstep passing along the terrace, Watt?’
“莫伯里·戴德洛克爵士，”朗斯韦尔夫人说，“我没有理由说，他是站在这位受祝福的烈士一边的。”但据推测，他的夫人，她的血管里没有任何家族血统，她支持了这个邪恶的事业。据说她与查尔斯国王的敌人有关系，她与他们有书信往来，并向他们提供了信息。据说，当任何追随陛下事业的乡村绅士在这里聚会时，女王陛下总是比他们想象的更靠近他们会议室的门口。瓦特，你听到类似脚步声穿过露台的声音吗？

Rosa draws nearer to the housekeeper.
罗莎靠近管家。

‘I hear the rain-drip on the stones,’ replies the young man, ‘and I hear a curious echo—I suppose an echo—which is very like a halting step.’
“我听到了雨滴落在石头上的声音，”年轻人回答道，“我听到了一种奇怪的回声——我想是一种回声——这很像一个停顿的脚步。”

The housekeeper gravely nods and continues: ‘Partly on account of this division between them, and partly on other accounts, Sir Morbury and his Lady led a troubled life. She was a lady of a haughty temper. They were not well suited to each other in age or character, and they had no children to moderate between them. After her favourite brother, a young gentleman, was killed in the civil wars (by Sir Morbury’s near kinsman), her feeling was so violent that she hated the race into which she had married. When the Dedlocks were about to ride out from Chesney Wold in the king’s cause, she is supposed to have more than once stolen down into the stables in the dead of night and lamed their horses; and the story is that once at such an hour, her husband saw her gliding down the stairs and followed her into the stall where his own favourite horse stood. There he seized her by the wrist, and in a struggle or in a fall or through the horse being frightened and lashing out, she was lamed in the hip and from that hour began to pine away.’
管家严肃地点点头，继续说道：“部分由于他们之间的分歧，部分由于其他原因，莫伯里爵士和他的夫人过着坎坷的生活。她是一位脾气傲慢的女士。他们在年龄和性格上都不太合适，而且也没有孩子可以在他们之间调和。她最喜欢的兄弟，一位年轻的绅士在内战中被杀（被莫伯里爵士的近亲杀死）后，她的感情如此强烈，以至于她讨厌她所嫁的种族。当戴德洛克夫妇准备为国王出征时，她不止一次地在夜深人静时偷偷溜进马厩，把他们的马弄瘸了。故事是这样的：有一次，在这个时候，她的丈夫看到她滑下楼梯，跟着她走进了他自己最喜欢的马所在的马厩。在那里，他抓住了她的手腕，在挣扎中，在跌倒中，或者在马受到惊吓和猛烈攻击时，她的臀部跛了，从那时起，她就开始消瘦。

The housekeeper has dropped her voice to a little more than a whisper.
管家的声音压低了，比耳语还要小一些。

‘She had been a lady of a handsome figure and a noble carriage. She never complained of the change; she never spoke to any one of being crippled or of being in pain, but day by day she tried to walk upon the terrace, and with the help of the stone balustrade, went up and down, up and down, up and down, in sun and shadow, with greater difficulty every day. At last, one afternoon her husband (to whom she had never, on any persuasion, opened her lips since that night), standing at the great south window, saw her drop upon the pavement. He hastened down to raise her, but she repulsed him as he bent over her, and looking at him fixedly and coldly, said, ‘I will die here where I have walked. And I will walk here, though I am in my grave. I will walk here until the pride of this house is humbled. And when calamity or when disgrace is coming to it, let the Dedlocks listen for my step!’
“她是一位身材姣好的女士，举止高贵。她从未抱怨过这种变化；她从来没有对任何人说过她是残废的，或者是痛苦的，但她日复一日地尝试着在露台上行走，借助石栏杆，走上走下，走上走下，走上走下，在露台上走来走去。阳光和阴影，每天都变得更加困难。最后，一天下午，她的丈夫（从那天晚上起，无论怎样说服，她都没有向他开口过），站在南边的大窗户前，看到她倒在人行道上。他赶紧下去扶起她，但她拒绝了他，他弯下腰，冷冷地看着他，说道：“我会死在我走过的地方。”我会走到这里，尽管我在坟墓里。我会一直走到这里，直到这所房子的骄傲被贬低。当灾难或耻辱临到时，让戴洛克夫妇听听我的脚步！

Watt looks at Rosa. Rosa in the deepening gloom looks down upon the ground, half frightened and half shy.
瓦特看着罗莎。罗莎在日益加深的阴暗中俯视着地面，一半是害怕，一半是害羞。

‘There and then she died. And from those days,’ says Mrs. Rouncewell, ‘the name has come down—the Ghost’s Walk. If the tread is an echo, it is an echo that is only heard after dark, and is often unheard for a long while together. But it comes back from time to time; and so sure as there is sickness or death in the family, it will be heard then.’
‘然后她就死了。从那时起，”朗斯韦尔夫人说，“这个名字就流传下来了——幽灵步道。如果说脚步声是一种回声，那也是一种只有在天黑之后才能听到的回声，而且常常是很长一段时间都听不到的回声。但它时不时就会回来；如果家里有人生病或去世，那么到时候就会被听到。”

‘And disgrace, grandmother—‘ says Watt.
“这是耻辱，祖母——”瓦特说。

‘Disgrace never comes to Chesney Wold,’ returns the housekeeper.
“切斯尼沃尔德永远不会丢脸，”管家回答道。

Her grandson apologizes with ‘True. True.’
她的孙子道歉说“是的”。真的。'

‘That is the story. Whatever the sound is, it is a worrying sound,’ says Mrs. Rouncewell, getting up from her chair; ‘and what is to be noticed in it is that it MUST BE HEARD. My Lady, who is afraid of nothing, admits that when it is there, it must be heard. You cannot shut it out. Watt, there is a tall French clock behind you (placed there, ‘a purpose) that has a loud beat when it is in motion and can play music. You understand how those things are managed?’
‘这就是故事。不管是什么声音，这都是令人担忧的声音，”朗斯韦尔夫人从椅子上站起来说道。 ‘其中值得注意的是，它必须被听到。无所畏惧的夫人承认，当它存在时，它必须被听到。你无法将其拒之门外。瓦特，你身后有一个高高的法国钟（放在那里，“有一个目的”），它在运转时会发出响亮的声音，并且可以播放音乐。你明白这些事情是如何管理的吗？

‘Pretty well, grandmother, I think.’
“很好，祖母，我想。”

‘Set it a-going.’
“开始吧。”

Watt sets it a-going—music and all.
瓦特让一切都开始了——音乐等等。

‘Now, come hither,’ says the housekeeper. ‘Hither, child, towards my Lady’s pillow. I am not sure that it is dark enough yet, but listen! Can you hear the sound upon the terrace, through the music, and the beat, and everything?’
“现在，到这里来吧，”管家说道。 “到了这里，孩子，到我夫人的枕头边。我不确定天是否足够黑，但是听着！你能听到露台上的声音、音乐、节拍以及一切吗？

‘I certainly can!’
“我当然可以！”

‘So my Lady says.’
“我的女士是这么说的。”

CHAPTER VIII
第八章


Covering a Multitude of Sins
遮盖许多罪孽

It was interesting when I dressed before daylight to peep out of window, where my candles were reflected in the black panes like two beacons, and finding all beyond still enshrouded in the indistinctness of last night, to watch how it turned out when the day came on. As the prospect gradually revealed itself and disclosed the scene over which the wind had wandered in the dark, like my memory over my life, I had a pleasure in discovering the unknown objects that had been around me in my sleep. At first they were faintly discernible in the mist, and above them the later stars still glimmered. That pale interval over, the picture began to enlarge and fill up so fast that at every new peep I could have found enough to look at for an hour. Imperceptibly my candles became the only incongruous part of the morning, the dark places in my room all melted away, and the day shone bright upon a cheerful landscape, prominent in which the old Abbey Church, with its massive tower, threw a softer train of shadow on the view than seemed compatible with its rugged character. But so from rough outsides (I hope I have learnt), serene and gentle influences often proceed.
有趣的是，我在天亮之前穿好衣服，向窗外窥视，我的蜡烛像两盏灯塔一样反射在黑色的窗玻璃上，发现窗外的一切仍然笼罩在昨晚的模糊之中，看看白天到来时会变成什么样子。在。当前景逐渐显露出来，揭示风在黑暗中徘徊的场景，就像我对我一生的记忆一样，我很高兴发现了睡梦中围绕在我周围的未知物体。起初，它们在雾气中依稀可辨，而在它们上方，后来的星星仍然在闪烁。在那段苍白的间隔结束后，画面开始放大并填满，速度如此之快，以至于每次新一瞥我都能找到足够的东西来观看一个小时。不知不觉间，我的蜡烛成了早晨唯一不协调的部分，我房间里的黑暗地方全部消失了，白天在令人愉快的风景上闪耀着明亮的光芒，其中突出的是古老的修道院教堂，其巨大的塔楼，投下一串柔和的光芒。景色上的阴影似乎与其崎岖的性格相适应。但因此，来自粗暴的外部环境（我希望我已经学到了），平静而温和的影响往往会发生。

Every part of the house was in such order, and every one was so attentive to me, that I had no trouble with my two bunches of keys, though what with trying to remember the contents of each little store-room drawer and cupboard; and what with making notes on a slate about jams, and pickles, and preserves, and bottles, and glass, and china, and a great many other things; and what with being generally a methodical, old-maidish sort of foolish little person, I was so busy that I could not believe it was breakfasttime when I heard the bell ring. Away I ran, however, and made tea, as I had already been installed into the responsibility of the tea-pot; and then, as they were all rather late and nobody was down yet, I thought I would take a peep at the garden and get some knowledge of that too. I found it quite a delightful place—in front, the pretty avenue and drive by which we had approached (and where, by the by, we had cut up the gravel so terribly with our wheels that I asked the gardener to roll it); at the back, the flower-garden, with my darling at her window up there, throwing it open to smile out at me, as if she would have kissed me from that distance. Beyond the flower-garden was a kitchen-garden, and then a paddock, and then a snug little rick-yard, and then a dear little farm-yard. As to the house itself, with its three peaks in the roof; its various-shaped windows, some so large, some so small, and all so pretty; its trellis-work, against the southfront for roses and honey-suckle, and its homely, comfortable, welcoming look—it was, as Ada said when she came out to meet me with her arm through that of its master, worthy of her cousin John, a bold thing to say, though he only pinched her dear cheek for it.
房子的每个部分都井井有条，每个人都对我如此殷勤，以至于我可以毫不费力地使用我的两串钥匙，尽管我需要努力记住每个小储藏室抽屉和橱柜的内容；在石板上记下果酱、泡菜、蜜饯、瓶子、玻璃、瓷器以及许多其他东西；我是一个有条不紊、老处女般的愚蠢小人物，但我却如此忙碌，以至于当我听到铃声响起时，我简直不敢相信已经到了早餐时间。然而，我跑开去泡茶，因为我已经被安排负责泡茶了。然后，由于他们都已经很晚了，还没有人下来，我想我应该去看看花园，也了解一些知识。我发现这是一个非常令人愉快的地方——前面是我们走过的美丽的大道和车道（顺便说一句，我们用轮子把砾石切得很厉害，我让园丁把它滚起来）；后面是花园，我的爱人正站在窗前，打开窗户对我微笑，仿佛她会从那么远的地方亲吻我。花园后面是一个菜园，然后是一个围场，然后是一个舒适的小堆垛场，然后是一个可爱的小农场院子。至于房子本身，屋顶上有三个尖顶；它的窗户形状各异，有的很大，有的很小，但都那么漂亮；它的格子结构，映衬着南面的玫瑰和金银花，还有它朴素、舒适、热情的外观——正如艾达出来迎接我时所说的那样，她挽着主人的手臂出来迎接我，配得上她的表弟约翰，这话真是大胆，尽管他只是捏了捏她亲爱的脸颊。

Mr. Skimpole was as agreeable at breakfast as he had been overnight. There was honey on the table, and it led him into a discourse about bees. He had no objection to honey, he said (and I should think he had not, for he seemed to like it), but he protested against the overweening assumptions of bees. He didn’t at all see why the busy bee should be proposed as a model to him; he supposed the bee liked to make honey, or he wouldn’t do it— nobody asked him. It was not necessary for the bee to make such a merit of his tastes. If every confectioner went buzzing about the world banging against everything that came in his way and egotistically calling upon everybody to take notice that he was going to his work and must not be interrupted, the world would be quite an unsupportable place. Then, after all, it was a ridiculous position to be smoked out of your fortune with brimstone as soon as you had made it. You would have a very mean opinion of a Manchester man if he spun cotton for no other purpose. He must say he thought a drone the embodiment of a pleasanter and wiser idea. The drone said unaffectedly, ‘You will excuse me; I really cannot attend to the shop! I find myself in a world in which there is so much to see and so short a time to see it in that I must take the liberty of looking about me and begging to be provided for by somebody who doesn’t want to look about him.’ This appeared to Mr. Skimpole to be the drone philosophy, and he thought it a very good philosophy, always supposing the drone to be willing to be on good terms with the bee, which, so far as he knew, the easy fellow always was, if the consequential creature would only let him, and not be so conceited about his honey!
斯金波尔先生吃早餐时和昨晚一样愉快。桌子上有蜂蜜，这让他开始谈论蜜蜂。他说，他不反对蜂蜜（我应该认为他不反对，因为他似乎喜欢蜂蜜），但他反对蜜蜂的傲慢假设。他根本不明白为什么要向他推荐忙碌的蜜蜂作为模型；他猜想这只蜜蜂喜欢酿蜜，否则他就不会这么做——没人问过他。蜜蜂没有必要如此重视自己的品味。如果每个糖果制造商都在世界上嗡嗡作响，撞击一切阻碍他前进的事物，并自负地呼吁每个人注意他正在工作并且不能被打扰，那么世界将是一个非常难以忍受的地方。毕竟，一旦你成功了，你的财富就被硫磺熏走了，这是一个可笑的职位。如果一个曼彻斯特人纺纱没有其他目的，你会对他有非常刻薄的评价。他必须说，他认为无人机是一个更愉快、更明智的想法的体现。无人机面无表情地说：“请原谅；实在是没办法去店里啊！我发现自己身处一个有如此多的东西可看的世界，而可看的时间又如此之短，因此我必须冒昧地环顾四周，乞求一个不想环顾四周的人来提供帮助。在斯金波尔先生看来，这就是无人机的哲学，他认为这是一个非常好的哲学，总是假设无人机愿意与蜜蜂保持良好的关系，据他所知，蜜蜂是个容易相处的家伙。一直都是这样，只要结果生物愿意让他这么做，而不是对他的蜂蜜如此自负！

He pursued this fancy with the lightest foot over a variety of ground and made us all merry, though again he seemed to have as serious a meaning in what he said as he was capable of having. I left them still listening to him when I withdrew to attend to my new duties. They had occupied me for some time, and I was passing through the passages on my return with my basket of keys on my arm when Mr. Jarndyce called me into a small room next his bed-chamber, which I found to be in part a little library of books and papers and in part quite a little museum of his boots and shoes and hatboxes.
他以最轻的步伐在不同的领域追求这一幻想，让我们大家都感到高兴，尽管他所说的话似乎再次具有他所能具有的严肃意义。当我退出去履行我的新职责时，我让他们仍在听他讲话。它们占据了我一段时间，当我回来时，胳膊上挎着一篮子钥匙穿过过道，贾迪斯先生把我叫进了他卧室旁边的一个小房间，我发现那间房间的一部分是一个小房间。一个小图书馆，里面有书籍和论文，还有一部分是一个小博物馆，里面有他的靴子、鞋子和帽盒。

‘Sit down, my dear,’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘This, you must know, is the growlery. When I am out of humour, I come and growl here.’
“坐下，亲爱的，”贾迪斯先生说。 ‘你必须知道，这就是咆哮声。当我心情不好的时候，我就会来这里咆哮。”

‘You must be here very seldom, sir,’ said I.
“您一定很少来这里，先生，”我说。

‘Oh, you don’t know me!’ he returned. ‘When I am deceived or disappointed in—the wind, and it’s easterly, I take refuge here. The growlery is the best-used room in the house. You are not aware of half my humours yet. My dear, how you are trembling!’
“哦，你不认识我！”他回答道。 “当我被风所欺骗或失望时，而且是东风，我就会在这里避难。种植室是房子里最常用的房间。你还不知道我一半的幽默感。亲爱的，你多么颤抖啊！

I could not help it; I tried very hard, but being alone with that benevolent presence, and meeting his kind eyes, and feeling so happy and so honoured there, and my heart so full—
我帮不了忙;我很努力地尝试，但独自一人面对着那个仁慈的存在，面对他慈祥的目光，在那里感到如此幸福和荣幸，我的心如此充实——

I kissed his hand. I don’t know what I said, or even that I spoke. He was disconcerted and walked to the window; I almost believed with an intention of jumping out, until he turned and I was reassured by seeing in his eyes what he had gone there to hide. He gently patted me on the head, and I sat down.
我吻了他的手。我不知道我说了什么，甚至不知道我说了什么。他惊慌失措地走到窗前。我差点就相信了，差点就想跳出去，直到他转过身来，看到他眼中隐藏的东西，我才放心。他轻轻地拍了拍我的头，我就坐下了。

‘There! There!’ he said. ‘That’s over. Pooh! Don’t be foolish.’
'那里！在那里！”他说。 '已经过去了。呸!别犯傻了。

‘It shall not happen again, sir,’ I returned, ‘but at first it is difficult—‘
“这种事不会再发生了，先生，”我回答道，“但一开始很难——”

‘Nonsense!’ he said. ‘It’s easy, easy. Why not? I hear of a good little orphan girl without a protector, and I take it into my head to be that protector. She grows up, and more than justifies my good opinion, and I remain her guardian and her friend. What is there in all this? So, so! Now, we have cleared off old scores, and I have before me thy pleasant, trusting, trusty face again.’
“胡说八道！”他说。 ‘这很容易，很容易。为什么不？我听说有一个善良的小孤女没有保护者，我就想成为那个保护者。她长大了，不仅证明了我的好意见，而且我仍然是她的监护人和她的朋友。这一切到底是什么？一般般！现在，我们已经清除了旧账，我面前又出现了你那张令人愉快、值得信赖、值得信赖的脸。”

I said to myself, ‘Esther, my dear, you surprise me! This really is not what I expected of you!’ And it had such a good effect that I folded my hands upon my basket and quite recovered myself. Mr. Jarndyce, expressing his approval in his face, began to talk to me as confidentially as if I had been in the habit of conversing with him every morning for I don’t know how long. I almost felt as if I had.
我对自己说：‘埃丝特，亲爱的，你让我大吃一惊！这实在不是我所期望的！’效果非常好，我双手交叉放在篮子上，这才恢复了过来。贾迪斯先生当面表达了他的认可，开始秘密地与我交谈，就好像我已经养成了每天早上与他交谈的习惯，不知道多久了。我几乎感觉好像我已经做到了。

‘Of course, Esther,’ he said, ‘you don’t understand this Chancery business?’
“当然，埃丝特，”他说，“你不了解大法官办公室的事情吗？”

And of course I shook my head.
当然，我摇了摇头。

‘I don’t know who does,’ he returned. ‘The lawyers have twisted it into such a state of bedevilment that the original merits of the case have long disappeared from the face of the earth. It’s about a will and the trusts under a will—or it was once. It’s about nothing but costs now. We are always appearing, and disappearing, and swearing, and interrogating, and filing, and cross-filing, and arguing, and sealing, and motioning, and referring, and reporting, and revolving about the Lord Chancellor and all his satellites, and equitably waltzing ourselves off to dusty death, about costs. That’s the great question. All the rest, by some extraordinary means, has melted away.’
“我不知道是谁做的，”他回答道。 “律师们把它扭曲得如此糟糕，以至于这个案子原本的优点早已从地球表面消失了。”这是关于遗嘱和遗嘱下的信托——或者说曾经是这样。现在除了成本什么都没有。我们总是出现、消失、咒骂、审问、归档、交叉归档、争论、密封、示意、提及、报告、围绕大法官和他的所有随从，公平地进行。为成本而欢欣鼓舞，直至尘土飞扬。这是一个很好的问题。其余的一切，通过某种非凡的方式，都消失了。”

‘But it was, sir,’ said I, to bring him back, for he began to rub his head, ‘about a will?’
“但是，先生，”我说，把他带回来，因为他开始揉着头，“关于遗嘱？”

‘Why, yes, it was about a will when it was about anything,’ he returned. ‘A certain Jarndyce, in an evil hour, made a great fortune, and made a great will. In the question how the trusts under that will are to be administered, the fortune left by the will is squandered away; the legatees under the will are reduced to such a miserable condition that they would be sufficiently punished if they had committed an enormous crime in having money left them, and the will itself is made a dead letter. All through the deplorable cause, everything that everybody in it, except one man, knows already is referred to that only one man who don’t know it to find out—all through the deplorable cause, everybody must have copies, over and over again, of everything that has accumulated about it in the way of cartloads of papers (or must pay for them without having them, which is the usual course, for nobody wants them) and must go down the middle and up again through such an infernal country-dance of costs and fees and nonsense and corruption as was never dreamed of in the wildest visions of a witch’s Sabbath. Equity sends questions to law, law sends questions back to equity; law finds it can’t do this, equity finds it can’t do that; neither can so much as say it can’t do anything, without this solicitor instructing and this counsel appearing for A, and that solicitor instructing and that counsel appearing for B; and so on through the whole alphabet, like the history of the apple pie. And thus, through years and years, and lives and lives, everything goes on, constantly beginning over and over again, and nothing ever ends. And we can’t get out of the suit on any terms, for we are made parties to it, and MUST BE parties to it, whether we like it or not. But it won’t do to think of it! When my great uncle, poor Tom Jarndyce, began to think of it, it was the beginning of the end!’
“嗯，是的，当它与任何事情有关时，它都与遗嘱有关，”他回答道。 “有一个詹迪斯，在一个邪恶的时刻，发了一笔大财，立下了伟大的遗嘱。在如何管理遗嘱下的信托的问题上，遗嘱留下的财产被挥霍殆尽；遗嘱下的受遗赠人的处境如此悲惨，如果他们在留下金钱方面犯下了巨大的罪行，他们就会受到充分的惩罚，而遗嘱本身也成了一纸空文。在整个可悲的事业中，除了一个人之外，每个人都已经知道的一切都被称为只有一个不知道的人才能发现——在整个可悲的事业中，每个人都必须一遍又一遍地拥有副本，以一车车文件的方式积累的一切（或者必须在没有它们的情况下支付它们，这是通常的过程，因为没有人想要它们）并且必须从中间走下来，然后再向上穿过这样一个地狱般的国家——成本和费用、胡言乱语和腐败的舞蹈，这是女巫安息日最疯狂的愿景中从未梦想过的。衡平法向法律提出问题，法律又向衡平法提出问题；法律发现它不能这样做，衡平法发现它不能这样做；如果没有这位律师的指示和该律师为 A 出庭，以及该律师的指示和该律师为 B 出庭，也不能说它不能做任何事情；等等贯穿整个字母表，就像苹果派的历史一样。就这样，年复一年，生生世世，一切都在继续，不断地一遍又一遍地开始，没有任何事情会结束。我们不能以任何条件退出诉讼，因为我们是诉讼当事人，而且必须是诉讼当事人，无论我们喜欢与否。但光想想也不行啊！ 当我的叔祖父、可怜的汤姆·贾迪斯开始思考这件事时，那是终结的开始！’

‘The Mr. Jarndyce, sir, whose story I have heard?’
“先生，贾迪斯先生，我听过谁的故事？”

He nodded gravely. ‘I was his heir, and this was his house, Esther. When I came here, it was bleak indeed. He had left the signs of his misery upon it.’
他郑重地点点头。 “我是他的继承人，这是他的房子，埃丝特。当我来到这里时，确实很荒凉。他在上面留下了他痛苦的痕迹。

‘How changed it must be now!’ I said.
“现在情况发生了多么大的变化啊！”我说。

‘It had been called, before his time, the Peaks. He gave it its present name and lived here shut up, day and night poring over the wicked heaps of papers in the suit and hoping against hope to disentangle it from its mystification and bring it to a close. In the meantime, the place became dilapidated, the wind whistled through the cracked walls, the rain fell through the broken roof, the weeds choked the passage to the rotting door. When I brought what remained of him home here, the brains seemed to me to have been blown out of the house too, it was so shattered and ruined.’
“在他的时代之前，这里被称为“山峰”。他给它起了现在的名字，然后闭门住在这里，日日夜夜地研究诉讼中那堆邪恶的文件，希望能够解开它的神秘面纱，结束它。与此同时，这里变得破败不堪，风吹过开裂的墙壁，雨水从破碎的屋顶落下，杂草堵塞了通往腐烂门的通道。当我把他剩下的尸体带回家时，在我看来，他的大脑也被从房子里炸了出来，房子是如此破碎和毁坏。

He walked a little to and fro after saying this to himself with a shudder, and then looked at me, and brightened, and came and sat down again with his hands in his pockets.
他战栗地自言自语地说完这句话，来回走动了一会儿，然后看着我，神色一亮，又过来坐下，双手插在口袋里。

‘I told you this was the growlery, my dear. Where was I?’
“我告诉过你这是咆哮声，亲爱的。我当时在哪儿？

I reminded him, at the hopeful change he had made in Bleak House.
我提醒他，他在《荒凉山庄》中做出了充满希望的改变。

‘Bleak House; true. There is, in that city of London there, some property of ours which is much at this day what Bleak House was then; I say property of ours, meaning of the suit’s, but I ought to call it the property of costs, for costs is the only power on earth that will ever get anything out of it now or will ever know it for anything but an eyesore and a heartsore. It is a street of perishing blind houses, with their eyes stoned out, without a pane of glass, without so much as a window-frame, with the bare blank shutters tumbling from their hinges and falling asunder, the iron rails peeling away in flakes of rust, the chimneys sinking in, the stone steps to every door (and every door might be death’s door) turning stagnant green, the very crutches on which the ruins are propped decaying. Although Bleak House was not in Chancery, its master was, and it was stamped with the same seal. These are the Great Seal’s impressions, my dear, all over England—the children know them!’
'荒凉山庄;真的。在伦敦这座城市里，我们有一些财产，今天的情况与当时的《荒凉山庄》差不多。我说的是我们的财产，即诉讼的财产，但我应该称其为成本的财产，因为成本是地球上唯一能从中得到任何东西的力量，或者永远知道它除了碍眼之外的任何东西。一个心痛。这是一条破败的街道，满是破败的盲目房屋，它们的眼睛被石头打瞎了，没有一块玻璃，连窗框都没有，光秃秃的空白百叶窗从铰链上翻下来，四分五裂，铁轨剥落成片。生锈了，烟囱下陷了，通往每扇门的石阶（每扇门都可能是死亡之门）变成了死气沉沉的绿色，支撑废墟的拐杖也在腐烂。虽然荒凉山庄不在大法官府，但它的主人却在大法官府，而且还盖有同样的印章。亲爱的，这些都是国玺在整个英格兰的印象——孩子们都知道！

‘How changed it is!’ I said again.
“变化真大啊！”我又说道。

‘Why, so it is,’ he answered much more cheerfully; ‘and it is wisdom in you to keep me to the bright side of the picture.’ (The idea of my wisdom!) ‘These are things I never talk about or even think about, excepting in the growlery here. If you consider it right to mention them to Rick and Ada,’ looking seriously at me, ‘you can. I leave it to your discretion, Esther.’
“啊，原来如此，”他更加高兴地回答道。 “你的智慧让我保持在画面的光明面。”（我的智慧的想法！）“这些是我从来没有谈论过，甚至没有想过的事情，除了在这里的咆哮。”如果你认为向里克和艾达提起他们是正确的，”认真地看着我，“你可以。我把它留给你自行决定，埃丝特。

‘I hope, sir—‘ said I.
“我希望，先生——”我说道。

‘I think you had better call me guardian, my dear.’
“我想你最好叫我监护人，亲爱的。”

I felt that I was choking again—I taxed myself with it, ‘Esther, now, you know you are!’—when he feigned to say this slightly, as if it were a whim instead of a thoughtful tenderness. But I gave the housekeeping keys the least shake in the world as a reminder to myself, and folding my hands in a still more determined manner on the basket, looked at him quietly.
我感觉自己又噎住了——我用这句话责问自己，“埃丝特，现在，你知道你是这样的！”——当他假装轻轻地说这句话时，仿佛这是一时兴起，而不是深思熟虑的温柔。但我把家务钥匙轻轻摇晃了一下，以此提醒自己，然后更加坚定地将双手交叠在篮子上，静静地看着他。

‘I hope, guardian,’ said I, ‘that you may not trust too much to my discretion. I hope you may not mistake me. I am afraid it will be a disappointment to you to know that I am not clever, but it really is the truth, and you would soon find it out if I had not the honesty to confess it.’
“我希望，监护人，”我说，“你不要太相信我的判断力。希望你不要误会我。我担心你会因为我不聪明而感到失望，但这确实是事实，如果我没有诚实地承认这一点，你很快就会发现。

He did not seem at all disappointed; quite the contrary. He told me, with a smile all over his face, that he knew me very well indeed and that I was quite clever enough for him.
他似乎一点也不失望；恰恰相反。他满脸笑容地告诉我，他确实很了解我，而且我对他来说足够聪明了。

‘I hope I may turn out so,’ said I, ‘but I am much afraid of it, guardian.’
“我希望我会变成这样，”我说，“但我很害怕，监护人。”

‘You are clever enough to be the good little woman of our lives here, my dear,’ he returned playfully; ‘the little old woman of the child’s (I don’t mean Skimpole’s) rhyme:
“亲爱的，你很聪明，可以成为我们这里生活的好小女人，”他开玩笑地回答道。 “孩子（我不是指斯基姆波尔）韵律中的小老妇人：

’Little old woman, and whither so high?’
“小老太婆，这么高去哪儿了？”

‘To sweep the cobwebs out of the sky.’
“扫除天空中的蜘蛛网。”

You will sweep them so neatly out of OUR sky in the course of your housekeeping, Esther, that one of these days we shall have to abandon the growlery and nail up the door.’
艾丝特，在你的家务过程中，你会把它们从我们的天空中清除掉，有一天我们将不得不放弃咆哮并钉上门。

This was the beginning of my being called Old Woman, and Little Old Woman, and Cobweb, and Mrs. Shipton, and Mother Hubbard, and Dame Durden, and so many names of that sort that my own name soon became quite lost among them.
从那时起，我就被称为“老妇人”、“小老妇人”、“蜘蛛网”、“希普顿夫人”、“哈伯德妈妈”、“杜登夫人”，以及诸如此类的名字，以至于我自己的名字很快就在他们中间消失了。

‘However,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘to return to our gossip. Here’s Rick, a fine young fellow full of promise. What’s to be done with him?’
“不过，”贾迪斯先生说，“回到我们的闲聊上来。这是瑞克，一个充满希望的优秀年轻人。该怎么办他呢？

Oh, my goodness, the idea of asking my advice on such a point!
哦，我的天啊，居然在这种问题上征求我的意见！

‘Here he is, Esther,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, comfortably putting his hands into his pockets and stretching out his legs. ‘He must have a profession; he must make some choice for himself. There will be a world more wiglomeration about it, I suppose, but it must be done.’
“他在这里，埃丝特，”贾迪斯先生说道，他轻松地把手插进口袋，伸展双腿。 ‘他必须有一个职业；他必须为自己做出一些选择。我想，世界上将会有更多关于它的争论，但它必须完成。

‘More what, guardian?’ said I.
“还有什么，监护人？”我说。

‘More wiglomeration,’ said he. ‘It’s the only name I know for the thing. He is a ward in Chancery, my dear. Kenge and Carboy will have something to say about it; Master Somebody—a sort of ridiculous sexton, digging graves for the merits of causes in a back room at the end of Quality Court, Chancery Lane—will have something to say about it; counsel will have something to say about it; the Chancellor will have something to say about it; the satellites will have something to say about it; they will all have to be handsomely feed, all round, about it; the whole thing will be vastly ceremonious, wordy, unsatisfactory, and expensive, and I call it, in general, wiglomeration. How mankind ever came to be afflicted with wiglomeration, or for whose sins these young people ever fell into a pit of it, I don’t know; so it is.’
“更多的扭曲，”他说。 “这是我所知道的唯一的名字。他是大法官法庭的一名受监护人，亲爱的。 Kenge 和 Carboy 将会对此有话要说；某人大师——一个可笑的教堂司事，在大法官巷优质法院尽头的一间后屋里为事业的功绩挖坟墓——对此会有话要说；律师将会对此有话要说；财政大臣将会对此有话要说；卫星将会对此有话要说；他们都必须在周围得到丰厚的食物。整个事情将非常隆重、冗长、令人不满意且昂贵，我一般将其称为“wigglomeration”。我不知道人类是如何遭受到了自欺欺人的痛苦，也不知道这些年轻人是因为谁的罪孽而陷入了这样的深渊。确实如此。’

He began to rub his head again and to hint that he felt the wind. But it was a delightful instance of his kindness towards me that whether he rubbed his head, or walked about, or did both, his face was sure to recover its benignant expression as it looked at mine; and he was sure to turn comfortable again and put his hands in his pockets and stretch out his legs.
他又开始揉着头，暗示他感觉到了风。但这是他对我的善意的一个令人愉快的例子，无论他揉揉他的头，还是走来走去，或者两者兼而有之，当他看着我的时候，他的脸一定会恢复到和善的表情；他肯定会再次感到舒服，把手插进口袋，伸展双腿。

‘Perhaps it would be best, first of all,’ said I, ‘to ask Mr. Richard what he inclines to himself.’
“也许最好的办法是，首先，”我说，“问问理查德先生，他自己倾向于什么。”

‘Exactly so,’ he returned. ‘That’s what I mean! You know, just accustom yourself to talk it over, with your tact and in your quiet way, with him and Ada, and see what you all make of it. We are sure to come at the heart of the matter by your means, little woman.’
“正是如此，”他回答道。 '那就是我的意思！你知道，你只要习惯于用你的机智、安静的方式与他和艾达讨论这件事，看看你们对此有何看法。通过你的帮助，我们一定能找到问题的核心，小女人。

I really was frightened at the thought of the importance I was attaining and the number of things that were being confided to me. I had not meant this at all; I had meant that he should speak to Richard. But of course I said nothing in reply except that I would do my best, though I feared (I realty felt it necessary to repeat this) that he thought me much more sagacious than I was. At which my guardian only laughed the pleasantest laugh I ever heard.
想到我所获得的重要性以及向我倾诉的事情的数量，我真的感到害怕。我根本不是这个意思；我的意思是他应该和理查德谈谈。当然，除了我会尽力而为之外，我什么也没说，尽管我担心（我真的觉得有必要重复一遍）他认为我比我聪明得多。我的监护人笑了，这是我听过的最愉快的笑声。

‘Come!’ he said, rising and pushing back his chair. ‘I think we may have done with the growlery for one day! Only a concluding word. Esther, my dear, do you wish to ask me anything?’
“来吧！”他站起身来，把椅子往后推。 “我想我们可能有一天已经不再咆哮了！”只说一句结束语。艾丝特，亲爱的，你想问我什么吗？

He looked so attentively at me that I looked attentively at him and felt sure I understood him.
他如此专注地看着我，我也专注地看着他，并确信我理解了他。

‘About myself, sir?’ said I.
“关于我自己，先生？”我问道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Guardian,’ said I, venturing to put my hand, which was suddenly colder than I could have wished, in his, ‘nothing! I am quite sure that if there were anything I ought to know or had any need to know, I should not have to ask you to tell it to me. If my whole reliance and confidence were not placed in you, I must have a hard heart indeed. I have nothing to ask you, nothing in the world.’
“守护者，”我冒险将我的手放在他的手上，“没什么！”我很确定，如果有什么我应该知道或需要知道的事情，我不必要求你告诉我。如果我的全部依靠和信心不是寄托在你的身上，我的心一定是铁石心肠的。我没什么可问你的，世界上没什么可问的。

He drew my hand through his arm and we went away to look for Ada. From that hour I felt quite easy with him, quite unreserved, quite content to know no more, quite happy.
他拉着我的手，我们就去找艾达了。从那时起，我觉得和他在一起很轻松，很毫无保留，很满足于不再知道，很快乐。

We lived, at first, rather a busy life at Bleak House, for we had to become acquainted with many residents in and out of the neighbourhood who knew Mr. Jarndyce. It seemed to Ada and me that everybody knew him who wanted to do anything with anybody else’s money. It amazed us when we began to sort his letters and to answer some of them for him in the growlery of a morning to find how the great object of the lives of nearly all his correspondents appeared to be to form themselves into committees for getting in and laying out money. The ladies were as desperate as the gentlemen; indeed, I think they were even more so. They threw themselves into committees in the most impassioned manner and collected subscriptions with a vehemence quite extraordinary. It appeared to us that some of them must pass their whole lives in dealing out subscription-cards to the whole post-office directory— shilling cards, half-crown cards, half-sovereign cards, penny cards. They wanted everything. They wanted wearing apparel, they wanted linen rags, they wanted money, they wanted coals, they wanted soup, they wanted interest, they wanted autographs, they wanted flannel, they wanted whatever Mr. Jarndyce had—or had not. Their objects were as various as their demands. They were going to raise new buildings, they were going to pay off debts on old buildings, they were going to establish in a picturesque building (engraving of proposed west elevation attached) the Sisterhood of Mediaeval Marys, they were going to give a testimonial to Mrs. Jellyby, they were going to have their secretary’s portrait painted and presented to his mother-in-law, whose deep devotion to him was well known, they were going to get up everything, I really believe, from five hundred thousand tracts to an annuity and from a marble monument to a silver tea-pot. They took a multitude of titles. They were the Women of England, the Daughters of Britain, the Sisters of all the cardinal virtues separately, the Females of America, the Ladies of a hundred denominations. They appeared to be always excited about canvassing and electing. They seemed to our poor wits, and according to their own accounts, to be constantly polling people by tens of thousands, yet never bringing their candidates in for anything. It made our heads ache to think, on the whole, what feverish lives they must lead.
起初，我们在荒凉山庄过着相当忙碌的生活，因为我们必须结识附近和附近许多认识贾迪斯先生的居民。在艾达和我看来，每个人都认识他，他想用别人的钱做任何事。当我们开始整理他的信件并在一个早晨的咆哮中为他回复其中一些信件时，我们惊讶地发现几乎所有他的通讯员的生活的伟大目标似乎是如何组成委员会以进入和花钱。女士们和先生们一样绝望。事实上，我认为他们更是如此。他们以最热情的方式投入到委员会中，并以非同寻常的热情筹集捐款。在我们看来，他们中的一些人必须用一生的时间来向整个邮局目录发放订阅卡——先令卡、半克朗卡、半主权卡、便士卡。他们想要一切。他们想要衣服，他们想要亚麻抹布，他们想要钱，他们想要煤炭，他们想要汤，他们想要利息，他们想要签名，他们想要法兰绒，他们想要贾迪斯先生拥有或没有的任何东西。他们的对象和他们的需求一样多种多样。他们要建造新建筑，他们要偿还旧建筑的债务，他们要在一座风景如画的建筑（附有拟议西立面的雕刻）中建立中世纪玛丽姐妹会，他们要为太太。 杰利比，他们要画下秘书的肖像，送给他的岳母，她对他的深爱是众所周知的，我真的相信，他们会拿出一切，从五十万张小册子到年金从大理石纪念碑到银茶壶。他们获得了许多头衔。她们是英国妇女、英国女儿、所有基本美德修女会、美国女性、一百个教派的女士。他们似乎总是对拉票和选举感到兴奋。在我们看来，根据他们自己的说法，他们似乎不断地对数以万计的人进行民意调查，却从不让他们的候选人参与任何事情。总的来说，一想到他们一定过着多么狂热的生活，我们就感到头疼。

Among the ladies who were most distinguished for this rapacious benevolence (if I may use the expression) was a Mrs. Pardiggle, who seemed, as I judged from the number of her letters to Mr. Jarndyce, to be almost as powerful a correspondent as Mrs. Jellyby herself. We observed that the wind always changed when Mrs. Pardiggle became the subject of conversation and that it invariably interrupted Mr. Jarndyce and prevented his going any farther, when he had remarked that there were two classes of charitable people; one, the people who did a little and made a great deal of noise; the other, the people who did a great deal and made no noise at all. We were therefore curious to see Mrs. Pardiggle, suspecting her to be a type of the former class, and were glad when she called one day with her five young sons.
在以这种贪婪的仁慈（如果我可以使用这个表达方式）而闻名的女士中，有一位帕迪格夫人，据我从她给贾迪斯先生的信的数量判断，她似乎是一位几乎与她一样强大的通讯员。杰利比夫人本人。我们观察到，当帕迪格夫人成为谈话对象时，风向总是会改变，而当贾迪斯先生谈到慈善家有两类时，风向总是会打断他，阻止他继续说下去。一是那些做得很少却闹得沸沸扬扬的人；另一个是那些做了很多事情却一点也不发出声音的人。因此，我们很想见到帕迪格太太，怀疑她是前一类人的典型，当她有一天带着五个年幼的儿子打电话来时，我们很高兴。

She was a formidable style of lady with spectacles, a prominent nose, and a loud voice, who had the effect of wanting a great deal of room. And she really did, for she knocked down little chairs with her skirts that were quite a great way off. As only Ada and I were at home, we received her timidly, for she seemed to come in like cold weather and to make the little Pardiggles blue as they followed.
她是一位令人敬畏的女士，戴着眼镜，鼻子突出，声音洪亮，给人一种需要很大空间的感觉。她确实做到了，因为她用裙子撞倒了远处的小椅子。由于家里只有我和艾达，所以我们接待她的态度很胆怯，因为她就像寒冷的天气一样进来，把跟在后面的小帕迪格斯弄得脸色青紫。

‘These, young ladies,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle with great volubility after the first salutations, ‘are my five boys. You may have seen their names in a printed subscription list (perhaps more than one) in the possession of our esteemed friend Mr. Jarndyce. Egbert, my eldest (twelve), is the boy who sent out his pocket-money, to the amount of five and threepence, to the Tockahoopo Indians. Oswald, my second (ten and a half), is the child who contributed two and nine-pence to the Great National Smithers Testimonial. Francis, my third (nine), one and sixpence halfpenny; Felix, my fourth (seven), eightpence to the Superannuated Widows; Alfred, my youngest (five), has voluntarily enrolled himself in the Infant Bonds of Joy, and is pledged never, through life, to use tobacco in any form.’
“这些，年轻的女士们，”帕迪格夫人在第一次打招呼后滔滔不绝地说，“是我的五个儿子。”您可能在我们尊敬的朋友贾迪斯先生拥有的印刷版订阅列表（可能不止一个）中看到过他们的名字。我的长子埃格伯特（12 岁）将自己的零用钱（五先令三便士）捐给了托卡胡波印第安人。奥斯瓦尔德是我的第二个孩子（十岁半），他为伟大的国家史密瑟斯纪念活动捐献了两又九便士。弗朗西斯，我的第三个（九个），一又六便士半便士；菲利克斯，我的第四（七）便士，八便士捐给退休寡妇；我最小的孩子阿尔弗雷德（五岁）自愿加入了婴儿欢乐债券，并承诺终生不再使用任何形式的烟草。

We had never seen such dissatisfied children. It was not merely that they were weazened and shrivelled—though they were certainly that to—but they looked absolutely ferocious with discontent. At the mention of the Tockahoopo Indians, I could really have supposed Eghert to be one of the most baleful members of that tribe, he gave me such a savage frown. The face of each child, as the amount of his contribution was mentioned, darkened in a peculiarly vindictive manner, but his was by far the worst. I must except, however, the little recruit into the Infant Bonds of Joy, who was stolidly and evenly miserable.
我们从未见过如此不满的孩子。不仅仅是他们变得虚弱和枯萎——尽管他们确实是这样——而且他们看起来非常凶猛，充满了不满。当提到托卡胡波印第安人时，我真的可以认为埃格特是该部落中最恶毒的成员之一，他对我皱起了眉头。每个孩子的脸，当提到他的贡献数额时，都以一种特殊的报复性的方式变得阴暗，但他的脸是迄今为止最糟糕的。然而，我必须排除那个加入婴儿欢乐纽带的小新兵，他表现得很冷漠，而且同样痛苦。

‘You have been visiting, I understand,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle, ‘at Mrs. Jellyby’s?’
“据我所知，你去过杰利比夫人家，”帕迪格夫人说，“是吗？”

We said yes, we had passed one night there.
我们说是的，我们在那里住了一晚。

‘Mrs. Jellyby,’ pursued the lady, always speaking in the same demonstrative, loud, hard tone, so that her voice impressed my fancy as if it had a sort of spectacles on too—and I may take the opportunity of remarking that her spectacles were made the less engaging by her eyes being what Ada called ‘choking eyes,’ meaning very prominent—‘Mrs. Jellyby is a benefactor to society and deserves a helping hand. My boys have contributed to the African project—Egbert, one and six, being the entire allowance of nine weeks; Oswald, one and a penny halfpenny, being the same; the rest, according to their little means. Nevertheless, I do not go with Mrs. Jellyby in all things. I do not go with Mrs. Jellyby in her treatment of her young family. It has been noticed. It has been observed that her young family are excluded from participation in the objects to which she is devoted. She may be right, she may be wrong; but, right or wrong, this is not my course with MY young family. I take them everywhere.’
'太太。 “杰利比，”那位女士追着她说话，总是用同样的示范性、大声、强硬的语气，所以她的声音给我留下了深刻的印象，就好像她也戴着一副眼镜一样——我可以借此机会说她的眼镜是做的。她的眼睛越不吸引人，就是艾达所说的“窒息的眼睛”，意思是非常突出——“夫人。” Jellyby 是社会的恩人，值得伸出援助之手。我的孩子们为非洲项目做出了贡献——埃格伯特，一岁和六岁，是九周的全部津贴；奥斯瓦尔德，一便士半便士，是一样的；其余的，根据他们的一点钱。尽管如此，我并不在所有事情上都同意杰利比夫人的观点。我不同意杰利比夫人对待她年轻的家庭的看法。已经注意到了。据观察，她的年轻家庭被排除在参与她所致力于的目标之外。她可能是对的，也可能是错的；但是，无论对错，这不是我和我年轻的家庭的课程。我到处都带着它们。

I was afterwards convinced (and so was Ada) that from the illconditioned eldest child, these words extorted a sharp yell. He turned it off into a yawn, but it began as a yell.
后来我确信（艾达也是如此），这些话让那个身体状况不佳的大孩子尖叫了一声。他把它变成了哈欠，但一开始却是大喊大叫。

‘They attend matins with me (very prettily done) at half-past six o’clock in the morning all the year round, including of course the depth of winter,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle rapidly, ‘and they are with me during the revolving duties of the day. I am a School lady, I am a Visiting lady, I am a Reading lady, I am a Distributing lady; I am on the local Linen Box Committee and many general committees; and my canvassing alone is very extensive—perhaps no one’s more so. But they are my companions everywhere; and by these means they acquire that knowledge of the poor, and that capacity of doing charitable business in general—in short, that taste for the sort of thing—which will render them in after life a service to their neighbours and a satisfaction to themselves. My young family are not frivolous; they expend the entire amount of their allowance in subscriptions, under my direction; and they have attended as many public meetings and listened to as many lectures, orations, and discussions as generally fall to the lot of few grown people. Alfred (five), who, as I mentioned, has of his own election joined the Infant Bonds of Joy, was one of the very few children who manifested consciousness on that occasion after a fervid address of two hours from the chairman of the evening.’
“一年四季，他们都会在早上六点半和我一起参加晨祷（做得非常漂亮），当然也包括深冬，”帕迪格夫人迅速说道，“他们在整个早晨都和我在一起。”当天的轮换职责。我是一名学校女士，我是一名访问女士，我是一名阅读女士，我是一名分发女士；我是当地亚麻箱委员会和许多综合委员会的成员；仅我的游说就非常广泛——也许没有人比我更广泛了。但他们是我无处不在的同伴；通过这些方式，他们获得了对穷人的了解，以及从事一般慈善事业的能力——简而言之，对这类事情的品味——这将使他们在来世为邻居服务并为自己带来满足。我的年轻家庭并不轻浮；他们在我的指导下将全部津贴用于订阅；他们参加了尽可能多的公开会议，听了尽可能多的讲座、演讲和讨论，这通常属于少数成年人的范畴。正如我所提到的，阿尔弗雷德（5 岁）是他自己选举加入“婴儿欢乐纽带”的，他是当晚主席在两个小时的热情演讲后表现出意识的极少数孩子之一。 '

Alfred glowered at us as if he never could, or would, forgive the injury of that night.
阿尔弗雷德怒视着我们，仿佛他永远无法、也不会原谅那天晚上的伤害。

‘You may have observed, Miss Summerson,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle, ‘in some of the lists to which I have referred, in the possession of our esteemed friend Mr. Jarndyce, that the names of my young family are concluded with the name of O. A. Pardiggle, F.R.S., one pound. That is their father. We usually observe the same routine. I put down my mite first; then my young family enrol their contributions, according to their ages and their little means; and then Mr. Pardiggle brings up the rear. Mr. Pardiggle is happy to throw in his limited donation, under my direction; and thus things are made not only pleasant to ourselves, but, we trust, improving to others.’
“萨默森小姐，您可能已经注意到，”帕迪格夫人说，“在我提到的、我们尊敬的朋友贾迪斯先生拥有的一些名单中，我年轻的家庭的名字都以这个名字结尾。 O. A. Pardiggle，F.R.S.，一磅。那是他们的父亲。我们通常遵循相同的惯例。我先放下我的小钱；然后我年轻的家庭根据他们的年龄和他们的收入来登记他们的捐款；然后帕迪格先生走在最后。帕迪格先生很乐意在我的指导下捐出他有限的捐款；因此，事情不仅让我们自己感到愉快，而且我们相信，也让他人变得更好。”

Suppose Mr. Pardiggle were to dine with Mr. Jellyby, and suppose Mr. Jellyby were to relieve his mind after dinner to Mr. Pardiggle, would Mr. Pardiggle, in return, make any confidential communication to Mr. Jellyby? I was quite confused to find myself thinking this, but it came into my head.
假设帕迪格先生要与杰利比先生共进晚餐，并且假设杰利比先生要在晚餐后向帕迪格先生解闷，作为回报，帕迪格先生是否会与杰利比先生进行任何机密通信？我很困惑地发现自己在想这个，但它出现在我的脑海里。

‘You are very pleasantly situated here!’ said Mrs. Pardiggle.
“你住在这里真是太舒服了！”帕迪格太太说。

We were glad to change the subject, and going to the window, pointed out the beauties of the prospect, on which the spectacles appeared to me to rest with curious indifference.
我们很高兴改变话题，走到窗前，指着窗外的美景，在我看来，窗外的眼镜带着一种奇怪的冷漠。

‘You know Mr. Gusher?’ said our visitor.
“你认识古舍先生吗？”我们的访客问道。

We were obliged to say that we had not the pleasure of Mr. Gusher’s acquaintance.
我们不得不说，我们并没有幸结识了古舍先生。

‘The loss is yours, I assure you,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle with her commanding deportment. ‘He is a very fervid, impassioned speakerfull of fire! Stationed in a waggon on this lawn, now, which, from the shape of the land, is naturally adapted to a public meeting, he would improve almost any occasion you could mention for hours and hours! By this time, young ladies,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle, moving back to her chair and overturning, as if by invisible agency, a little round table at a considerable distance with my work-basket on it, ‘by this time you have found me out, I dare say?’
“我向你保证，损失是你的。”帕迪格太太用她威严的举止说道。 “他是一个非常热情、充满激情、充满火焰的演说家！现在，他坐在这片草坪上的马车里，从土地的形状来看，它自然适合公开会议，他可以改善几乎任何你能提到的场合！到了这个时候，年轻的女士们，”帕迪格夫人说着，走回椅子上，仿佛有一种无形的力量，把远处的一张小圆桌推倒了，上面放着我的工作篮，“现在你们已经找到了。我敢说我出去吗？

This was really such a confusing question that Ada looked at me in perfect dismay. As to the guilty nature of my own consciousness after what I had been thinking, it must have been expressed in the colour of my cheeks.
这实在是一个令人困惑的问题，艾达非常沮丧地看着我。至于我自己的意识在我这么想之后的罪恶本质，它一定已经通过我脸颊的颜色表现出来了。

‘Found out, I mean,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle, ‘the prominent point in my character. I am aware that it is so prominent as to be discoverable immediately. I lay myself open to detection, I know. Well! I freely admit, I am a woman of business. I love hard work; I enjoy hard work. The excitement does me good. I am so accustomed and inured to hard work that I don’t know what fatigue is.’
“我是说，发现了，”帕迪格夫人说，“我性格中的突出点。”我知道它是如此突出以至于可以立即被发现。我知道，我很容易被发现。出色地！我坦率地承认，我是一个商业女性。我热爱努力工作；我享受艰苦的工作。兴奋对我有好处。我太习惯和习惯了艰苦的工作，以至于我不知道什么是疲劳。

We murmured that it was very astonishing and very gratifying, or something to that effect. I don’t think we knew what it was either, but this is what our politeness expressed.
我们嘀咕着，这真是太令人惊讶、太令人欣慰了，或者类似的东西。我想我们也不知道那是什么，但这就是我们的礼貌所表达的。

‘I do not understand what it is to be tired; you cannot tire me if you try!’ said Mrs. Pardiggle. ‘The quantity of exertion (which is no exertion to me), the amount of business (which I regard as nothing), that I go through sometimes astonishes myself. I have seen my young family, and Mr. Pardiggle, quite worn out with witnessing it, when I may truly say I have been as fresh as a lark!’
“我不明白什么是累； “只要你努力，我就不会感到厌倦！”帕迪格太太说道。 “我所经历的努力量（对我来说不算努力）、生意量（我认为没什么）有时令我自己感到惊讶。我看到我年轻的家人和帕迪格先生在见证这一切时感到非常疲惫，而我真的可以说我一直像百灵鸟一样精力充沛！

If that dark-visaged eldest boy could look more malicious than he had already looked, this was the time when he did it. I observed that he doubled his right fist and delivered a secret blow into the crown of his cap, which was under his left arm.
如果说那个黑脸的大男孩看起来比他看上去更恶毒的话，那么现在就是他这么做的时候了。我观察到他握紧右拳，秘密地向左臂下方的帽顶打了一拳。

‘This gives me a great advantage when I am making my rounds,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle. ‘If I find a person unwilling to hear what I have to say, I tell that person directly, ‘I am incapable of fatigue, my good friend, I am never tired, and I mean to go on until I have done.’ It answers admirably! Miss Summerson, I hope I shall have your assistance in my visiting rounds immediately, and Miss Clare’s very soon.’
“当我巡视时，这给了我很大的优势，”帕迪格夫人说。 “如果我发现有人不愿意听我说的话，我会直接告诉那个人，‘我不会疲倦，我的好朋友，我永远不会疲倦，我会一直讲下去，直到我说完为止。’”答案令人钦佩！萨默森小姐，我希望我能在我的探访中立即得到您的帮助，克莱尔小姐也很快就会得到帮助。

At first I tried to excuse myself for the present on the general ground of having occupations to attend to which I must not neglect. But as this was an ineffectual protest, I then said, more particularly, that I was not sure of my qualifications. That I was inexperienced in the art of adapting my mind to minds very differently situated, and addressing them from suitable points of view. That I had not that delicate knowledge of the heart which must be essential to such a work. That I had much to learn, myself, before I could teach others, and that I could not confide in my good intentions alone. For these reasons I thought it best to be as useful as I could, and to render what kind services I could to those immediately about me, and to try to let that circle of duty gradually and naturally expand itself. All this I said with anything but confidence, because Mrs. Pardiggle was much older than I, and had great experience, and was so very military in her manners.
起初，我试图为自己暂时离开而辩解，理由是我有一些不能忽视的事情要做。但由于这是一次无效的抗议，我随后更具体地说，我不确定自己的资格。我在使我的思想适应截然不同的思想并从合适的角度处理它们方面缺乏经验。我对内心的了解对于这样的工作来说是必不可少的。在我能够教导别人之前，我自己还有很多东西要学，而且我不能只相信自己的良好意愿。出于这些原因，我认为最好是尽我所能，为周围的人提供力所能及的服务，并尝试让职责范围逐渐自然地扩展。我说这一切时充满信心，因为帕迪格夫人比我年长得多，经验丰富，而且举止非常军事化。

‘You are wrong, Miss Summerson,’ said she, ‘but perhaps you are not equal to hard work or the excitement of it, and that makes a vast difference. If you would like to see how I go through my work, I am now about—with my young family—to visit a brickmaker in the neighbourhood (a very bad character) and shall be glad to take you with me. Miss Clare also, if she will do me the favour.’
“你错了，萨默森小姐，”她说，“但也许你无法胜任努力工作或工作带来的兴奋，而这就会产生巨大的差异。如果你想看看我是如何完成我的工作的，我现在正准备和我年轻的家人一起去拜访附近的一个砖匠（一个非常坏的人），并且很高兴带你一起去。克莱尔小姐也请帮我一个忙。

Ada and I interchanged looks, and as we were going out in any case, accepted the offer. When we hastily returned from putting on our bonnets, we found the young family languishing in a corner and Mrs. Pardiggle sweeping about the room, knocking down nearly all the light objects it contained. Mrs. Pardiggle took possession of Ada, and I followed with the family.
艾达和我交换了眼神，无论如何我们都要出去，所以接受了这个提议。当我们戴上帽子匆忙回来时，我们发现这个年轻的家庭在一个角落里苦苦挣扎，帕迪格太太在房间里打扫，几乎打翻了房间里所有的轻物。帕迪格夫人占有了艾达，我和家人也跟着走了。

Ada told me afterwards that Mrs. Pardiggle talked in the same loud tone (that, indeed, I overheard) all the way to the brickmaker’s about an exciting contest which she had for two or three years waged against another lady relative to the bringing in of their rival candidates for a pension somewhere. There had been a quantity of printing, and promising, and proxying, and polling, and it appeared to have imparted great liveliness to all concerned, except the pensioners—who were not elected yet.
艾达后来告诉我，帕迪格太太一路到制砖厂，都用同样响亮的语气（确实是我无意中听到的）谈论一场激动人心的比赛，这场比赛她与另一位女士进行了两三年，有关引进他们在某处领取养老金的竞争对手。进行了大量的印刷、许诺、代理和民意调查，这似乎给所有相关人员带来了极大的活力，除了养老金领取者——他们还没有当选。

I am very fond of being confided in by children and am happy in being usually favoured in that respect, but on this occasion it gave me great uneasiness. As soon as we were out of doors, Egbert, with the manner of a little footpad, demanded a shilling of me on the ground that his pocket-money was ‘boned’ from him. On my pointing out the great impropriety of the word, especially in connexion with his parent (for he added sulkily ‘By her!’), he pinched me and said, ‘Oh, then! Now! Who are you! YOU wouldn’t like it, I think? What does she make a sham for, and pretend to give me money, and take it away again? Why do you call it my allowance, and never let me spend it?’ These exasperating questions so inflamed his mind and the minds of Oswald and Francis that they all pinched me at once, and in a dreadfully expert way— screwing up such little pieces of my arms that I could hardly forbear crying out. Felix, at the same time, stamped upon my toes. And the Bond of Joy, who on account of always having the whole of his little income anticipated stood in fact pledged to abstain from cakes as well as tobacco, so swelled with grief and rage when we passed a pastry-cook’s shop that he terrified me by becoming purple. I never underwent so much, both in body and mind, in the course of a walk with young people as from these unnaturally constrained children when they paid me the compliment of being natural.
我很喜欢被孩子们倾诉，平时也很高兴能在这方面受到青睐，但这次却给我带来了极大的不安。我们一出门，埃格伯特就以小脚垫的方式向我索要一先令，理由是他的零用钱被“剥夺”了。当我指出这个词非常不恰当时，尤其是在与他的父母联系时（因为他闷闷不乐地补充了“她的！”），他掐了我一下说：“哦，那么！”现在！你是谁！我想你不会喜欢它吧？她装模作样，假装给了我钱，然后又把钱拿走了？为什么你称它为我的津贴，却不让我花掉它？”这些令人恼火的问题如此激怒了他以及奥斯瓦尔德和弗朗西斯的思想，他们立刻掐了我一下，而且以一种可怕的专业方式——把这些小事搞砸了。我的手臂，我几乎无法忍住哭泣。与此同时，菲利克斯踩了我的脚趾。而欢乐债券，由于他总是能预期到他那微薄的收入，他实际上发誓要戒掉蛋糕和烟草，当我们经过一家糕点店时，他因悲伤和愤怒而膨胀，以至于让我害怕变成紫色。在和年轻人一起散步的过程中，我从来没有像这些不自然地拘束的孩子们称赞我自然一样，在身体和心灵上经历过这么多。

I was glad when we came to the brickmaker’s house, though it was one of a cluster of wretched hovels in a brick-field, with pigsties close to the broken windows and miserable little gardens before the doors growing nothing but stagnant pools. Here and there an old tub was put to catch the droppings of rain-water from a roof, or they were banked up with mud into a little pond like a large dirtpie. At the doors and windows some men and women lounged or prowled about, and took little notice of us except to laugh to one another or to say something as we passed about gentlefolks minding their own business and not troubling their heads and muddying their shoes with coming to look after other people’s.
当我们来到砖匠的房子时，我很高兴，尽管它是砖地里一堆破烂的小屋之一，破窗附近有猪圈，门前有一个可怜的小花园，除了死水池外什么也没有。到处都放了一个旧浴缸来接住屋顶上的雨水，或者用泥土把它们堆成一个小池塘，就像一个大土馅饼一样。一些男人和女人在门口和窗户旁闲逛或徘徊，很少注意到我们，只是在我们经过的绅士们只管自己的事情而不是麻烦他们的头脑和弄脏他们的鞋子的时候互相嘲笑或说些什么。去照顾别人的。

Mrs. Pardiggle, leading the way with a great show of moral determination and talking with much volubility about the untidy habits of the people (though I doubted if the best of us could have been tidy in such a place), conducted us into a cottage at the farthest corner, the ground-floor room of which we nearly filled. Besides ourselves, there were in this damp, offensive room a woman with a black eye, nursing a poor little gasping baby by the fire; a man, all stained with clay and mud and looking very dissipated, lying at full length on the ground, smoking a pipe; a powerful young man fastening a collar on a dog; and a bold girl doing some kind of washing in very dirty water. They all looked up at us as we came in, and the woman seemed to turn her face towards the fire as if to hide her bruised eye; nobody gave us any welcome.
帕迪格太太在前面带路，表现出极大的道德决心，滔滔不绝地谈论人们不整洁的习惯（尽管我怀疑我们中最好的人是否能在这样的地方保持整洁），带我们走进一间小屋在最远的角落，我们几乎挤满了底层的房间。除了我们自己之外，在这间潮湿、令人厌恶的房间里，还有一个黑眼圈的女人，正在火边照顾一个可怜的喘着粗气的婴儿。一个男人浑身沾满了泥土，看上去很颓废，全身躺在地上，抽着烟斗。一个强大的年轻人给狗戴上项圈；还有一个大胆的女孩用很脏的水洗东西。当我们进来时，他们都抬头看着我们，那个女人似乎把脸转向火，好像要隐藏她受伤的眼睛；没有人欢迎我们。

‘Well, my friends,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle, but her voice had not a friendly sound, I thought; it was much too businesslike and systematic. ‘How do you do, all of you? I am here again. I told you, you couldn’t tire me, you know. I am fond of hard work, and am true to my word.’
“好吧，我的朋友们，”帕迪格太太说道，但我想她的声音并不友好；她的声音听起来并不友好。它过于务实和系统化。 ‘你们大家好吗？我又来了。我告诉过你，你不能让我疲倦，你知道。我喜欢努力工作，并且信守诺言。”

‘There an’t,’ growled the man on the floor, whose head rested on his hand as he stared at us, ‘any more on you to come in, is there?’
“不行了，”地板上的那个人咆哮道，他的头靠在他的手上，盯着我们，“你还需要进来吗？”

‘No, my friend,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle, seating herself on one stool and knocking down another. ‘We are all here.’
“不，我的朋友，”帕迪格太太一边说，一边坐在一张凳子上，又撞倒了另一张凳子。 “我们都在这里。”

‘Because I thought there warn’t enough of you, perhaps?’ said the man, with his pipe between his lips as he looked round upon us.
“也许是因为我觉得你们还不够？”那人环顾四周，嘴里叼着烟斗，说道。

The young man and the girl both laughed. Two friends of the young man, whom we had attracted to the doorway and who stood there with their hands in their pockets, echoed the laugh noisily.
青年和少女都笑了。我们把年轻人的两个朋友吸引到了门口，他们双手插在口袋里站在那里，大声地笑起来。

‘You can’t tire me, good people,’ said Mrs. Pardiggle to these latter. ‘I enjoy hard work, and the harder you make mine, the better I like it.’
“你们不能让我感到疲倦，好心人，”帕迪格夫人对后者说。 “我喜欢努力工作，你越努力，我就越喜欢它。”

‘Then make it easy for her!’ growled the man upon the floor. ‘I wants it done, and over. I wants a end of these liberties took with my place. I wants an end of being drawed like a badger. Now you’re a-going to poll-pry and question according to custom—I know what you’re a-going to be up to. Well! You haven’t got no occasion to be up to it. I’ll save you the trouble. Is my daughter a-washin? Yes, she IS a-washin. Look at the water. Smell it! That’s wot we drinks. How do you like it, and what do you think of gin instead! An’t my place dirty? Yes, it is dirty— it’s nat’rally dirty, and it’s nat’rally onwholesome; and we’ve had five dirty and onwholesome children, as is all dead infants, and so much the better for them, and for us besides. Have I read the little book wot you left? No, I an’t read the little book wot you left. There an’t nobody here as knows how to read it; and if there wos, it wouldn’t be suitable to me. It’s a book fit for a babby, and I’m not a babby. If you was to leave me a doll, I shouldn’t nuss it. How have I been conducting of myself? Why, I’ve been drunk for three days; and I’da been drunk four if I’da had the money. Don’t I never mean for to go to church? No, I don’t never mean for to go to church. I shouldn’t be expected there, if I did; the beadle’s too gen-teel for me. And how did my wife get that black eye? Why, I give it her; and if she says I didn’t, she’s a lie!’
“那就让她轻松点吧！”地板上的男人咆哮道。 “我希望一切都完成，结束。”我希望我的位置不再被剥夺。我希望不再像獾一样被吸引。现在你要按照惯例进行民意调查和提问——我知道你要做什么。出色地！你没有机会去做这件事。我会省去你的麻烦。我女儿是a-washin吗？是的，她是一个洗涤者。看水。闻一闻！这就是我们喝的东西。你觉得它怎么样？你觉得杜松子酒怎么样？我的地方不脏吗？是的，它是肮脏的——它本质上是肮脏的，但它本质上是健康的；我们有五个肮脏但健康的孩子，就像所有死去的婴儿一样，这对他们和我们来说都更好。我读过你留下的那本小书吗？不，我没有读过你留下的那本小书。这里没有人知道如何阅读它；如果有的话，那就不适合我了。这是一本适合婴儿的书，而我不是婴儿。如果你要留给我一个洋娃娃，我就不该管它。我的表现如何？哎呀，我已经醉了三天了！如果我有钱的话我已经喝醉四次了。我不是从来没想过去教堂吗？不，我从来都不想去教堂。如果我在那里的话，就不应该期待我在那里；执事对我来说太绅士了。我妻子的黑眼圈是怎么来的？哎呀，我把它给了她；如果她说我没有，那她就是在撒谎！”

He had pulled his pipe out of his mouth to say all this, and he now turned over on his other side and smoked again. Mrs. Pardiggle, who had been regarding him through her spectacles with a forcible composure, calculated, I could not help thinking, to increase his antagonism, pulled out a good book as if it were a constable’s staff and took the whole family into custody. I mean into religious custody, of course; but she really did it as if she were an inexorable moral policeman carrying them all off to a stationhouse.
他把烟斗从嘴里拔出来说了这一切，现在他翻了个身，又抽烟了。帕迪格太太一直戴着眼镜，镇定自若地看着他，我不禁想，她算计着要增加他的敌意，她像警察的手杖一样拿出一本好书，把全家人都拘留了。当然，我指的是宗教监禁；但她确实像一个无情的道德警察，把他们全都带到了车站。

Ada and I were very uncomfortable. We both felt intrusive and out of place, and we both thought that Mrs. Pardiggle would have got on infinitely better if she had not had such a mechanical way of taking possession of people. The children sulked and stared; the family took no notice of us whatever, except when the young man made the dog bark, which he usually did when Mrs. Pardiggle was most emphatic. We both felt painfully sensible that between us and these people there was an iron barrier which could not be removed by our new friend. By whom or how it could be removed, we did not know, but we knew that. Even what she read and said seemed to us to be ill-chosen for such auditors, if it had been imparted ever so modestly and with ever so much tact. As to the little book to which the man on the floor had referred, we acqulred a knowledge of it afterwards, and Mr. Jarndyce said he doubted if Robinson Crusoe could have read it, though he had had no other on his desolate island.
艾达和我感到非常不舒服。我们都觉得自己被打扰了，格格不入，我们都认为，如果帕迪格太太没有用这种机械的方式来占有别人，她会相处得好得多。孩子们闷闷不乐，瞪着眼睛。一家人根本没有注意到我们，除了年轻人让狗叫的时候，他通常在帕迪格太太最强调的时候这样做。我们都痛苦地感觉到，我们和这些人之间存在着一道铁栅栏，我们的新朋友无法移开。我们不知道由谁或如何删除它，但我们知道这一点。即使她读到的和说的内容在我们看来对于这些审计员来说都是错误的选择，如果她的传达得如此谦虚和机智的话。至于地板上那个人提到的那本小书，我们是后来才知道的，贾迪斯先生说他怀疑鲁滨逊漂流记是否能读到这本书，尽管他在荒凉的岛上没有其他的书。

We were much relieved, under these circumstances, when Mrs. Pardiggle left off.
在这种情况下，当帕迪格太太停下来时，我们松了口气。

The man on the floor, then turning his bead round again, said morosely, ‘Well! You’ve done, have you?’
地上的那个人又转过头来，闷闷不乐地说：“好吧！你已经做到了，是吗？

‘For to-day, I have, my friend. But I am never fatigued. I shall come to you again in your regular order,’ returned Mrs. Pardiggle with demonstrative cheerfulness.
“今天，我做到了，我的朋友。但我却从不疲倦。 “我会按照你的常规再次来找你的，”帕迪格太太带着明显的高兴回答道。

‘So long as you goes now,’ said he, folding his arms and shutting his eyes with an oath, ‘you may do wot you like!’
“只要你现在走，”他抱起双臂，闭上眼睛发誓，“你可以做你想做的事！”

Mrs. Pardiggle accordingly rose and made a little vortex in the confined room from which the pipe itself very narrowly escaped. Taking one of her young family in each hand, and telling the others to follow closely, and expressing her hope that the brickmaker and all his house would be improved when she saw them next, she then proceeded to another cottage. I hope it is not unkind in me to say that she certainly did make, in this as in everything else, a show that was not conciliatory of doing charity by wholesale and of dealing in it to a large extent.
帕迪格太太相应地站了起来，在密闭的房间里制造了一个小漩涡，烟斗自己险些逃了出来。她手里拿着一个年轻的家人，让其他人紧随其后，并表示希望下次见到他们时，砖匠和他的整个房子都会得到改善，然后她前往另一间小屋。我希望我毫不客气地说，她在这件事上和在其他一切事情上确实做了一场演出，她对大规模做慈善和在很大程度上从事慈善事业并不妥协。

She supposed that we were following her, but as soon as the space was left clear, we approached the woman sitting by the fire to ask if the baby were ill.
她以为我们在跟踪她，但一旦腾出空间，我们就走近坐在火边的女人，询问婴儿是否生病了。

She only looked at it as it lay on her lap. We had observed before that when she looked at it she covered her discoloured eye with her hand, as though she wished to separate any association with noise and violence and ill treatment from the poor little child.
当它放在她腿上时，她只是看着它。我们之前观察到，当她看着它时，她用手遮住变色的眼睛，仿佛她希望将这个可怜的小孩与噪音、暴力和虐待分开。

Ada, whose gentle heart was moved by its appearance, bent down to touch its little face. As she did so, I saw what happened and drew her back. The child died.
艾达温柔的心被它的外表所感动，弯下腰抚摸它的小脸。当她这样做时，我看到了发生的事情并把她拉了回来。孩子死了。

‘Oh, Esther!’ cried Ada, sinking on her knees beside it. ‘Look here! Oh, Esther, my love, the little thing! The suffering, quiet, pretty little thing! I am so sorry for it. I am so sorry for the mother. I never saw a sight so pitiful as this before! Oh, baby, baby!’
“噢，埃丝特！”艾达跪在它旁边叫道。 '看这里！哦，埃​​丝特，我的爱人，这个小东西！痛苦、安静、美丽的小东西！我对此感到非常抱歉。我很对不起妈妈。我从来没有见过如此可怜的景象！哦，宝贝，宝贝！

Such compassion, such gentleness, as that with which she bent down weeping and put her hand upon the mother’s might have softened any mother’s heart that ever beat. The woman at first gazed at her in astonishment and then burst into tears.
她哭泣着弯下腰，把手放在母亲的手上，这样的慈悲，这样的温柔，可能会软化任何曾经跳动的母亲的心。女人先是惊讶地看着她，然后泪流满面。

Presently I took the light burden from her lap, did what I could to make the baby’s rest the prettier and gentler, laid it on a shelf, and covered it with my own handkerchief. We tried to comfort the mother, and we whispered to her what Our Saviour said of children. She answered nothing, but sat weeping—weeping very much.
不久，我从她腿上取下了轻重的担子，尽我所能地让婴儿睡得更漂亮、更温柔，把它放在架子上，并用我自己的手帕盖上。我们试图安慰这位母亲，并低声向她讲述救世主对孩子的评价。她什么也没回答，只是坐着哭——哭得很厉害。

When I turned, I found that the young man had taken out the dog and was standing at the door looking in upon us with dry eyes, but quiet. The girl was quiet too and sat in a corner looking on the ground. The man had risen. He still smoked his pipe with an air of defiance, but he was silent.
当我转身时，我发现年轻人已经把狗抱了出来，站在门口看着我们，眼睛干涩，但很安静。女孩也很安静，坐在角落里看着地面。那人已经站起来了。他仍然一脸挑衅地抽着烟斗，但他却一声不吭。

An ugly woman, very poorly clothed, hurried in while I was glancing at them, and coming straight up to the mother, said, ‘Jenny! Jenny!’ The mother rose on being so addressed and fell upon the woman’s neck.
当我扫视他们时，一个丑陋的女人，衣衫褴褛，匆匆走进来，径直走到母亲面前，说道：“珍妮！”珍妮！”听到这样的称呼，母亲站了起来，搂住了女人的脖子。

She also had upon her face and arms the marks of ill usage. She had no kind of grace about her, but the grace of sympathy; but when she condoled with the woman, and her own tears fell, she wanted no beauty. I say condoled, but her only words were ‘Jenny! Jenny!’ All the rest was in the tone in which she said them.
她的脸上和手臂上也有被虐待的痕迹。她身上没有任何优雅，只有同情的优雅。但当她向那个女人哀悼时，她自己的眼泪也掉下来了，她不需要美丽。我表示哀悼，但她只说了‘珍妮！珍妮！”剩下的一切都是她说的语气。

I thought it very touching to see these two women, coarse and shabby and beaten, so united; to see what they could be to one another; to see how they felt for one another, how the heart of each to each was softened by the hard trials of their lives. I think the best side of such people is almost hidden from us. What the poor are to the poor is little known, excepting to themselves and God.
看到这两个粗俗、破旧、饱受殴打的女人如此团结，我觉得很感动。看看他们能够成为彼此的什么样的人；看看他们对彼此的感受如何，彼此的心如何因生活的艰难考验而变得柔软。我认为这样的人最好的一面几乎对我们来说是隐藏的。穷人对于穷人来说意味着什么，除了他们自己和上帝之外，鲜为人知。

We felt it better to withdraw and leave them uninterrupted. We stole out quietly and without notice from any one except the man. He was leaning against the wall near the door, and finding that there was scarcely room for us to pass, went out before us. He seemed to want to hide that he did this on our account, but we perceived that be did, and thanked him. He made no answer.
我们觉得最好撤退，让他们不受打扰。我们悄悄溜了出去，除了那个男人之外没有任何人通知。他靠在门边的墙上，发现我们几乎没有地方可以通过，就在我们前面走了出去。他似乎想隐瞒他是为了我们才这样做的，但我们察觉到了，并对他表示感谢。他没有回答。

Ada was so full of grief all the way home, and Richard, whom we found at home, was so distressed to see her in tears (though he said to me, when she was not present, how beautiful it was too!), that we arranged to return at night with some little comforts and repeat our visit at the brick-maker’s house. We said as little as we could to Mr. Jarndyce, but the wind changed directly.
艾达回家的路上充满了悲伤，而我们在家里找到的理查德看到她流泪也很心疼（尽管他对我说，当她不在的时候，那也是多么美丽啊！），我们安排晚上带着一些小安慰回来，然后再去砖匠的房子参观。我们尽可能少地对贾迪斯先生说话，但风向却直接改变了。

Richard accompanied us at night to the scene of our morning expedition. On our way there, we had to pass a noisy drinkinghouse, where a number of men were flocking about the door. Among them, and prominent in some dispute, was the father of the little child. At a short distance, we passed the young man and the dog, in congenial company. The sister was standing laughing and talking with some other young women at the corner of the row of cottages, but she seemed ashamed and turned away as we went by.
理查德晚上陪我们来到早上探险的现场。去那里的路上，我们必须经过一家喧闹的酒馆，门口挤满了很多人。其中最引人注目的是孩子的父亲。不远处，我们经过了年轻人和狗，他们相处融洽。修女站在那排小屋的拐角处，和其他几个年轻妇女有说有笑，但当我们经过时，她似乎很害羞，转过身去。

We left our escort within sight of the brickmaker’s dwelling and proceeded by ourselves. When we came to the door, we found the woman who had brought such consolation with her standing there looking anxiously out.
我们把护送人员留在了制砖匠住所的视野范围内，然后自己继续前行。当我们来到门口时，发现那位带来如此安慰的女人站在那儿，焦急地向外张望。

‘It’s you, young ladies, is it?’ she said in a whisper. ‘I’m awatching for my master. My heart’s in my mouth. If he was to catch me away from home, he’d pretty near murder me.’
“是你们吗，年轻的女士们，是吗？”她低声说道。 ‘我正在寻找我的主人。我的心提到了嗓子眼。如果他要抓我离家出走，他几乎会杀了我。”

‘Do you mean your husband?’ said I.
“你是说你的丈夫吗？”我说。

‘Yes, miss, my master. Jennys asleep, quite worn out. She’s scarcely had the child off her lap, poor thing, these seven days and nights, except when I’ve been able to take it for a minute or two.’
“是的，小姐，我的主人。珍妮睡着了，很疲惫。她几乎没有把孩子从她腿上拿下来，可怜的东西，这七天七夜，除非我能把它带走一两分钟。

As she gave way for us, she went softly in and put what we had brought near the miserable bed on which the mother slept. No effort had been made to clean the room—it seemed in its nature almost hopeless of being clean; but the small waxen form from which so much solemnity diffused itself had been composed afresh, and washed, and neatly dressed in some fragments of white linen; and on my handkerchief, which still covered the poor baby, a little bunch of sweet herbs had been laid by the same rough, scarred hands, so lightly, so tenderly!
当她给我们让路时，她轻轻地走了进去，把我们带来的东西放在母亲睡着的那张简陋的床上。没有人努力打扫房间——从本质上来说，房间似乎几乎不可能打扫干净。但是散发着如此庄严气氛的小蜡像已经被重新组合、清洗过，并整齐地用一些白色亚麻布碎片包裹起来。我的手帕上还盖着可怜的婴儿，上面放着一小束甜香草，是用同样粗糙、伤痕累累的手铺的，如此轻轻，如此温柔！

‘May heaven reward you!’ we said to her. ‘You are a good woman.’
“愿天堂奖励你！”我们对她说。 “你是个好女人。”

‘Me, young ladies?’ she returned with surprise. ‘Hush! Jenny, Jenny!’
“我，年轻的女士们？”她惊讶地回答。 ‘嘘！珍妮，珍妮！’

The mother had moaned in her sleep and moved. The sound of the familiar voice seemed to calm her again. She was quiet once more.
母亲在睡梦中呻吟着，动了动。熟悉的声音似乎又让她平静下来。她再次安静了。

How little I thought, when I raised my handkerchief to look upon the tiny sleeper underneath and seemed to see a halo shine around the child through Ada’s drooping hair as her pity bent her head— how little I thought in whose unquiet bosom that handkerchief would come to lie after covering the motionless and peaceful breast! I only thought that perhaps the Angel of the child might not be all unconscious of the woman who replaced it with so compassionate a hand; not all unconscious of her presently, when we had taken leave, and left her at the door, by turns looking, and listening in terror for herself, and saying in her old soothing manner, ‘Jenny, Jenny!’
当我举起手帕，看着下面睡着的小婴儿时，当我怜悯地低下头时，似乎看到艾达垂下的头发透过光环在孩子周围闪耀，我是多么没想到手帕会来到谁不安的怀抱里。捂住一动不动的平静的乳房后躺着！我只是想，也许孩子的天使可能并没有完全意识到那个用如此富有同情心的手取代它的女人；当我们离开时，我们并没有完全意识到她，把她留在门口，她自己轮流看着，恐惧地听着，并用她古老的安慰方式说：“珍妮，珍妮！”

CHAPTER IX
第九章


Signs and Tokens
标志和代币

I don’t know how it is I seem to be always writing about myself. I mean all the time to write about other people, and I try to think about myself as little as possible, and I am sure, when I find myself coming into the story again, I am really vexed and say, ‘Dear, dear, you tiresome little creature, I wish you wouldn’t!’ but it is all of no use. I hope any one who may read what I write will understand that if these pages contain a great deal about me, I can only suppose it must be because I have really something to do with them and can’t be kept out.
我不知道怎么回事，我似乎总是在写自己。我的意思是一直在写别人，我试着尽可能少地考虑自己，我确信，当我发现自己再次进入这个故事时，我真的很烦恼并说，“亲爱的，亲爱的，你这个令人厌烦的小东西，我希望你不要这样做！”但是这一切都没有用。我希望任何读过我写的东西的人都会明白，如果这些页面包含了很多关于我的信息，我只能假设那一定是因为我确实与它们有关，不能被排除在外。

My darling and I read together, and worked, and practised, and found so much employment for our time that the winter days flew by us like bright-winged birds. Generally in the afternoons, and always in the evenings, Richard gave us his company. Although he was one of the most restless creatures in the world, he certainly was very fond of our society.
我和我的爱人一起读书、工作、练习，为我们这个时代找到了很多工作，冬天的日子像明亮的翅膀的鸟儿一样从我们身边飞过。理查德通常在下午和晚上都会陪伴我们。尽管他是世界上最不安分的生物之一，但他确实非常喜欢我们的社会。

He was very, very, very fond of Ada. I mean it, and I had better say it at once. I had never seen any young people falling in love before, but I found them out quite soon. I could not say so, of course, or show that I knew anything about it. On the contrary, I was so demure and used to seem so unconscious that sometimes I considered within myself while I was sitting at work whether I was not growing quite deceitful.
他非常非常非常喜欢艾达。我是认真的，而且我最好立即说出来。我以前从未见过年轻人谈恋爱，但我很快就发现了他们。当然，我不能这么说，也不能表明我对此一无所知。相反，我总是那么端庄，看起来那么不自觉，有时我坐在工作的时候心里会想，我是不是变得越来越狡猾了。

But there was no help for it. All I had to do was to be quiet, and I was as quiet as a mouse. They were as quiet as mice too, so far as any words were concerned, but the innocent manner in which they relied more and more upon me as they took more and more to one another was so charming that I had great difficulty in not showing how it interested me.
但没有任何帮助。我所要做的就是保持安静，而且我安静得像只老鼠。就任何言语而言，他们也像老鼠一样安静，但他们越来越依赖我、越来越相互依赖的天真态度是如此迷人，以至于我很难不表现出他们是如何做的。这让我感兴趣。

‘Our dear little old woman is such a capital old woman,’ Richard would say, coming up to meet me in the garden early, with his pleasant laugh and perhaps the least tinge of a blush, ‘that I can’t get on without her. Before I begin my harum-scarum day— grinding away at those books and instruments and then galloping up hill and down dale, all the country round, like a highwayman—it does me so much good to come and have a steady walk with our comfortable friend, that here I am again!’
“我们亲爱的小老太婆真是一位了不起的老太婆，”理查德会这么说，他很早就到花园里来迎接我，带着愉快的笑声，也许还带着一丝脸红，“如果没有她，我就活不下去。”她。在我开始我鲁莽的一天之前——埋头苦读那些书本和乐器，然后像强盗一样在乡村里飞驰上山下谷——在我开始我的鲁莽的一天之前，带着我们舒适的车稳定地散步对我来说真是太好了。朋友，我又来了！

‘You know, Dame Durden, dear,’ Ada would say at night, with her head upon my shoulder and the firelight shining in her thoughtful eyes, ‘I don’t want to talk when we come upstairs here. Only to sit a little while thinking, with your dear face for company, and to hear the wind and remember the poor sailors at sea—‘
“你知道，亲爱的德登夫人，”艾达在晚上说，她的头靠在我的肩膀上，火光在她深思熟虑的眼睛里闪烁，“当我们上楼的时候，我不想说话。只是坐一会儿思考，与你亲爱的脸为伴，听听风声，记住海上可怜的水手——”

Ah! Perhaps Richard was going to be a sailor. We had talked it over very often now, and there was some talk of gratifying the inclination of his childhood for the sea. Mr. Jarndyce had written to a relation of the family, a great Sir Leicester Dedlock, for his interest in Richard’s favour, generally; and Sir Leicester had replied in a gracious manner that he would be happy to advance the prospects of the young gentleman if it should ever prove to be within his power, which was not at all probable, and that my Lady sent her compliments to the young gentleman (to whom she perfectly remembered that she was allied by remote consanguinity) and trusted that he would ever do his duty in any honourable profession to which he might devote himself.
啊!也许理查德会成为一名水手。我们现在已经经常讨论这个问题了，有一些讨论是为了满足他童年时期对海洋的爱好。贾迪斯先生曾写信给家族的一位亲戚、伟大的莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，表示他对理查德的青睐总体上很感兴趣。莱斯特爵士以一种和蔼可亲的方式回答说，如果事实证明这在他的能力范围内，他将很乐意促进这位年轻绅士的前景，但这根本不可能，并且夫人向这位年轻绅士致意他是一位绅士（她清楚地记得，她与他有着远亲的血缘关系），并相信他会在他所投身的任何光荣职业中履行自己的职责。

‘So I apprehend it’s pretty clear,’ said Richard to me, ‘that I shall have to work my own way. Never mind! Plenty of people have had to do that before now, and have done it. I only wish I had the command of a clipping privateer to begin with and could carry off the Chancellor and keep him on short allowance until he gave judgment in our cause. He’d find himself growing thin, if he didn’t look sharp!’
“所以我认为很明显，”理查德对我说，“我必须按照自己的方式工作。”没关系！以前有很多人不得不这样做，并且已经这样做了。我只希望我一开始就拥有一艘私掠船的指挥权，可以带走财政大臣并让他得到短暂的津贴，直到他对我们的事业作出判决。如果他看起来不敏锐的话，他会发现自己越来越瘦了！

With a buoyancy and hopefulness and a gaiety that hardly ever flagged, Richard had a carelessness in his character that quite perplexed me, principally because he mistook it, in such a very odd way, for prudence. It entered into all his calculations about money in a singular manner which I don’t think I can better explain than by reverting for a moment to our loan to Mr. Skimpole.
理查德充满活力、充满希望和永不减退的快乐，他的性格中有一种粗心，这让我很困惑，主要是因为他以一种非常奇怪的方式将其误认为是谨慎。它以一种独特的方式融入了他对金钱的所有计算中，我想我无法比暂时回到我们借给斯金波尔先生的贷款更好地解释这一点。

Mr. Jarndyce had ascertained the amount, either from Mr. Skimpole himself or from Coavinses, and had placed the money in my hands with instructions to me to retain my own part of it and hand the rest to Richard. The number of little acts of thoughtless expenditure which Richard justified by the recovery of his ten pounds, and the number of times he talked to me as if he had saved or realized that amount, would form a sum in simple addition.
贾迪斯先生已经从斯金波尔先生本人或科文斯那里确定了金额，并将这笔钱交到我手中，并指示我保留我自己的部分，并将其余部分交给理查德。理查德通过收回他的十英镑来证明自己的无心支出的小行为的数量，以及他对我说话的次数，就好像他已经节省或意识到了这笔钱一样，简单相加就能形成一笔总和。

‘My prudent Mother Hubbard, why not?’ he said to me when he wanted, without the least consideration, to bestow five pounds on the brickmaker. ‘I made ten pounds, clear, out of Coavinses’ business.’
“我谨慎的哈伯德妈妈，为什么不呢？”当他想不假思索地捐给砖匠五英镑时，他对我说。 “很明显，我从科文斯的生意中赚了十英镑。”

‘How was that?’ said I.
“怎么样？”我说。

‘Why, I got rid of ten pounds which I was quite content to get rid of and never expected to see any more. You don’t deny that?’
“哎呀，我减掉了十磅，我很满足于减掉了它，而且从来没想过会再减掉它。”你不否认吗？

‘No,’ said I.
“不，”我说。

‘Very well! Then I came into possession of ten pounds—‘
'很好！然后我就拥有了十英镑——”

‘The same ten pounds,’ I hinted.
“同样的十磅，”我暗示道。

‘That has nothing to do with it!’ returned Richard. ‘I have got ten pounds more than I expected to have, and consequently I can afford to spend it without being particular.’
“这与此无关！”理查德回答道。 “我的收入比我预期的多了十英镑，因此我可以毫不挑剔地花掉它。”

In exactly the same way, when he was persuaded out of the sacrifice of these five pounds by being convinced that it would do no good, he carried that sum to his credit and drew upon it.
同样，当他被说服放弃这五英镑的牺牲时，因为他确信这不会有任何好处，他将这笔钱记入自己的信用并提取出来。

‘Let me see!’ he would say. ‘I saved five pounds out of the brickmaker’s affair, so if I have a good rattle to London and back in a post-chaise and put that down at four pounds, I shall have saved one. And it’s a very good thing to save one, let me tell you: a penny saved is a penny got!’
“让我看看！”他会说。 “我从制砖匠的事中节省了五英镑，因此，如果我能顺利地乘坐马车往返伦敦并返回，并将其减至四英镑，我就可以节省一英镑。节省一分钱是一件非常好的事情，让我告诉你：节省一分钱就是一分钱！

I believe Richard’s was as frank and generous a nature as there possibly can be. He was ardent and brave, and in the midst of all his wild restlessness, was so gentle that I knew him like a brother in a few weeks. His gentleness was natural to him and would have shown itself abundantly even without Ada’s influence; but with it, he became one of the most winning of companions, always so ready to be interested and always so happy, sanguine, and light-hearted. I am sure that I, sitting with them, and walking with them, and talking with them, and noticing from day to day how they went on, falling deeper and deeper in love, and saying nothing about it, and each shyly thinking that this love was the greatest of secrets, perhaps not yet suspected even by the other—I am sure that I was scarcely less enchanted than they were and scarcely less pleased with the pretty dream.
我相信理查德的性格是最坦率和慷慨的。他热情而勇敢，在他的狂野不安中，他是如此温柔，以至于几周后我就像兄弟一样认识了他。他的温柔是与生俱来的，即使没有艾达的影响，他的温柔也会表现得淋漓尽致。但随之而来的是，他成为了最受人欢迎的同伴之一，总是那么乐于助人，总是那么快乐、乐观、轻松。我确信我和他们坐在一起，和他们一起散步，和他们交谈，日复一日地注意到他们是如何过着越来越深的爱，却什么也没说，每个人都害羞地认为这就是他们的生活。爱情是最伟大的秘密，也许连对方都还没有怀疑过——我确信我和他们一样着迷，对这个美丽的梦也同样感到高兴。

We were going on in this way, when one morning at breakfast Mr. Jarndyce received a letter, and looking at the superscription, said, ‘From Boythorn? Aye, aye!’ and opened and read it with evident pleasure, announcing to us in a parenthesis when he was about half-way through, that Boythorn was ‘coming down’ on a visit. Now who was Boythorn, we all thought. And I dare say we all thought too—I am sure I did, for one—would Boythorn at all interfere with what was going forward?
我们就这样继续下去，有一天早上吃早饭时，贾迪斯先生收到一封信，他看着上面的说明，说道：“来自博伊索恩？”是的，是的！”他带着明显的喜悦打开并阅读了这本书，当他读到一半时，他在括号中向我们宣布博伊索恩即将“下来”访问。现在谁是博伊索恩，我们都在想。我敢说我们都曾想过——我相信我也这么想过——博伊索恩会干扰接下来的事情吗？

‘I went to school with this fellow, Lawrence Boythorn,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, tapping the letter as he laid it on the table, ‘more than five and forty years ago. He was then the most impetuous boy in the world, and he is now the most impetuous man. He was then the loudest boy in the world, and he is now the loudest man. He was then the heartiest and sturdiest boy in the world, and he is now the heartiest and sturdiest man. He is a tremendous fellow.’
“我和劳伦斯·博伊索恩这个家伙一起上学，”贾迪斯先生一边说，一边把信放在桌子上，“五四十多年前了。”那时的他是世界上最浮躁的男孩，现在的他也是世界上最浮躁的男人。那时他是世界上最吵闹的男孩，现在他是世界上最吵闹的人。那时的他是世界上最热心、最坚强的男孩，现在他也是世界上最热心、最坚强的男人。他是一个了不起的人。

‘In stature, sir?’ asked Richard.
“长官，身材怎么样？”理查德问。

‘Pretty well, Rick, in that respect,’ said Mr. Jarndyce; ‘being some ten years older than I and a couple of inches taller, with his head thrown back like an old soldier, his stalwart chest squared, his hands like a clean blacksmith’s, and his lungs! There’s no simile for his lungs. Talking, laughing, or snoring, they make the beams of the house shake.’
“在这方面，里克，很好，”贾迪斯先生说。 “比我大十岁，高几寸，头向后仰，像个老战士，胸膛挺拔，双手像干净的铁匠，还有肺！”他的肺没有任何比喻。他们说话、大笑或打鼾，都会让房子的横梁摇晃。”

As Mr. Jarndyce sat enjoying the image of his friend Boythorn, we observed the favourable omen that there was not the least indication of any change in the wind.
当贾迪斯先生坐着欣赏他的朋友博伊索恩的照片时，我们观察到了一个有利的预兆：风向没有任何变化的迹象。

‘But it’s the inside of the man, the warm heart of the man, the passion of the man, the fresh blood of the man, Rick—and Ada, and little Cobweb too, for you are all interested in a visitor—that I speak of,’ he pursued. ‘His language is as sounding as his voice. He is always in extremes, perpetually in the superlative degree. In his condemnation he is all ferocity. You might suppose him to be an ogre from what he says, and I believe he has the reputation of one with some people. There! I tell you no more of him beforehand. You must not be surprised to see him take me under his protection, for he has never forgotten that I was a low boy at school and that our friendship began in his knocking two of my head tyrant’s teeth out (he says six) before breakfast. Boythorn and his man,’ to me, ‘will be here this afternoon, my dear.’
“但这是这个男人的内心，这个男人温暖的心，这个男人的激情，这个男人的新鲜血液，瑞克——还有艾达，还有小蜘蛛网，因为你们都对访客感兴趣——我说吧，”他继续说道。 “他的语言和他的声音一样动听。他总是处于极端，永远处于最高级的程度。在他的谴责中，他是非常残暴的。从他的话中你可能会认为他是一个食人魔，而且我相信他在某些人中享有这样的声誉。那里！我事先不再告诉你他的事了。看到他把我置于他的保护之下，你一定不会感到惊讶，因为他永远不会忘记我在学校是一个低贱的男孩，我们的友谊始于他在早餐前敲掉了我的两颗暴君的牙齿（他说是六颗）。博伊索恩和他的人，对我来说，“今天下午就会在这里，亲爱的。”

I took care that the necessary preparations were made for Mr. Boythorn’s reception, and we looked forward to his arrival with some curiosity. The afternoon wore away, however, and he did not appear. The dinner-hour arrived, and still he did not appear. The dinner was put back an hour, and we were sitting round the fire with no light but the blaze when the hall-door suddenly burst open and the hall resounded with these words, uttered with the greatest vehemence and in a stentorian tone: ‘We have been misdirected, Jarndyce, by a most abandoned ruffian, who told us to take the turning to the right instead of to the left. He is the most intolerable scoundrel on the face of the earth. His father must have been a most consummate villain, ever to have such a son. I would have had that fellow shot without the least remorse!’
我为博伊索恩先生的接待做好了必要的准备，我们怀着好奇的心情期待着他的到来。然而，下午的时间过去了，他却没有出现。到了晚饭时间，他还是没有出现。晚饭推迟了一个小时，我们围坐在火边，除了火光之外，没有任何灯光，大厅的门突然打开，大厅里回响着这句话，语气最激烈，声音洪亮：“我们贾迪斯，被一个最被遗弃的恶棍误导了，他告诉我们向右转而不是向左转。他是地球上最令人无法容忍的恶棍。他的父亲一定是一个最完美的恶棍，有这样的儿子。我会毫无悔意地枪杀那个家伙！

‘Did he do it on purpose?’ Mr. Jarndyce inquired.
“他是故意的吗？”贾迪斯先生问道。

‘I have not the slightest doubt that the scoundrel has passed his whole existence in misdirecting travellers!’ returned the other. ‘By my soul, I thought him the worst-looking dog I had ever beheld when he was telling me to take the turning to the right. And yet I stood before that fellow face to face and didn’t knock his brains out!’
“我毫不怀疑这个恶棍一生都在误导旅客！”另一个人回答道。 “凭我的灵魂，当他告诉我向右转时，我认为他是我见过的最丑的狗。但我面对面地站在那个家伙面前，却没有把他的脑袋敲碎！”

‘Teeth, you mean?’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“你是说牙齿吗？”贾迪斯先生说。

‘Ha, ha, ha!’ laughed Mr. Lawrence Boythorn, really making the whole house vibrate. ‘What, you have not forgotten it yet! Ha, ha, ha! And that was another most consummate vagabond! By my soul, the countenance of that fellow when he was a boy was the blackest image of perfidy, cowardice, and cruelty ever set up as a scarecrow in a field of scoundrels. If I were to meet that most unparalleled despot in the streets to-morrow, I would fell him like a rotten tree!’
“哈哈哈！”劳伦斯·博伊索恩先生大笑起来，整个房子都震动了。 ‘什么，你还没忘记吧！哈哈哈！那又是一个最完美的流浪汉！以我的灵魂，那个家伙小时候的面容是最黑暗的背信弃义、怯懦和残忍的形象，就像一个恶棍场上的稻草人。如果明天我在街上遇到那个最无双的暴君，我一定会把他像棵烂树一样砍倒！

‘I have no doubt of it,’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘Now, will you come upstairs?’
“我对此毫不怀疑，”贾迪斯先生说。 “现在，你能上楼来吗？”

‘By my soul, Jarndyce,’ returned his guest, who seemed to refer to his watch, ‘if you had been married, I would have turned back at the garden-gate and gone away to the remotest summits of the Himalaya Mountains sooner than I would have presented myself at this unseasonable hour.’
“以我的灵魂发誓，贾迪斯，”他的客人回答道，他似乎在指着他的手表，“如果你已经结婚了，我会在花园门口折返，然后早点离开喜马拉雅山脉最遥远的山峰。”我会在这个不合时宜的时刻出现。

‘Not quite so far, I hope?’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“我希望还没有那么严重吧？”贾迪斯先生说。

‘By my life and honour, yes!’ cried the visitor. ‘I wouldn’t be guilty of the audacious insolence of keeping a lady of the house waiting all this time for any earthly consideration. I would infinitely rather destroy myself—infinitely rather!’
“以我的生命和荣誉起誓，是的！”来访者喊道。 “让一位女主人为了任何世俗的考虑而一直等待，我不会因为这种大胆无礼的行为而感到内疚。我宁愿无限地毁灭自己——无限地宁愿！

Talking thus, they went upstairs, and presently we heard him in his bedroom thundering ‘Ha, ha, ha!’ and again ‘Ha, ha, ha!’ until the flattest echo in the neighbourhood seemed to catch the contagion and to laugh as enjoyingly as he did or as we did when we heard him laugh.
就这样说着，他们上了楼，不久我们就听到他在卧室里雷鸣般地“哈、哈、哈！”又是“哈、哈、哈！”，直到附近最平淡的回声似乎感染了这种传染病，并大笑起来。就像他那样享受，或者像我们听到他笑声时那样。

We all conceived a prepossession in his favour, for there was a sterling quality in this laugh, and in his vigorous, healthy voice, and in the roundness and fullness with which he uttered every word he spoke, and in the very fury of his superlatives, which seemed to go off like blank cannons and hurt nothing. But we were hardly prepared to have it so confirmed by his appearance when Mr. Jarndyce presented him. He was not only a very handsome old gentleman—upright and stalwart as he had been described to us— with a massive grey head, a fine composure of face when silent, a figure that might have become corpulent but for his being so continually in earnest that he gave it no rest, and a chin that might have subsided into a double chin but for the vehement emphasis in which it was constantly required to assist; but he was such a true gentleman in his manner, so chivalrously polite, his face was lighted by a smile of so much sweetness and tenderness, and it seemed so plain that he had nothing to hide, but showed himself exactly as he was—incapable, as Richard said, of anything on a limited scale, and firing away with those blank great guns because he carried no small arms whatever—that really I could not help looking at him with equal pleasure as he sat at dinner, whether he smilingly conversed with Ada and me, or was led by Mr. Jarndyce into some great volley of superlatives, or threw up his head like a bloodhound and gave out that tremendous ‘Ha, ha, ha!’
我们都对他产生了好感，因为他的笑声、他充满活力、健康的声音、他所说的每一个字的圆润和丰满、以及他最高级的愤怒，都具有纯正的品质。 ，它似乎像空炮一样爆炸，没有造成任何伤害。但当贾迪斯先生介绍他时，我们几乎没有准备好通过他的外表来证实这一点。他不仅是一位非常英俊的老绅士——正像我们所描述的那样，正直而坚定——有着一头巨大的灰色脑袋，沉默时面容平静，如果不是他如此认真，他的身材可能会变得肥胖。他没有给它休息，下巴可能会变成双下巴，如果不是因为不断需要它的帮助而强烈强调；但他的举止却是那么一位真正的绅士，那么有骑士般的礼貌，他的脸上挂着那么甜蜜和温柔的笑容，看起来那么平淡，没有什么可隐藏的，只是表现出他本来的样子——无能为力。正如理查德所说，任何规模有限的东西，并用那些空白的大枪开火，因为他没有携带任何小型武器——真的，当他坐在晚餐时，我忍不住以同样的高兴地看着他，无论他是否微笑着交谈与艾达和我一起，或者在贾迪斯先生的带领下说了一些最高级的话，或者像猎犬一样抬起头，发出巨大的“哈，哈，哈！”

‘You have brought your bird with you, I suppose?’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“我想你把鸟也带来了？”贾迪斯先生说。

‘By heaven, he is the most astonishing bird in Europe!’ replied the other. ‘He IS the most wonderful creature! I wouldn’t take ten thousand guineas for that bird. I have left an annuity for his sole support in case he should outlive me. He is, in sense and attachment, a phenomenon. And his father before him was one of the most astonishing birds that ever lived!’
“天哪，他是欧洲最令人惊奇的鸟！”另一只回答道。 ‘他是最奇妙的生物！我不会花一万几尼买那只鸟。我留下了一笔年金作为他唯一的赡养费，以防他比我活得更久。从感觉和执着上来说，他是一种现象。在他之前，他的父亲是有史以来最令人惊奇的鸟类之一！

The subject of this laudation was a very little canary, who was so tame that he was brought down by Mr. Boythorn’s man, on his forefinger, and after taking a gentle flight round the room, alighted on his master’s head. To hear Mr. Boythorn presently expressing the most implacable and passionate sentiments, with this fragile mite of a creature quietly perched on his forehead, was to have a good illustration of his character, I thought.
这次赞美的对象是一只很小的金丝雀，它非常驯服，以至于被博伊索恩先生的手下用食指放倒，轻轻地绕着房间飞了一圈后，落在了主人的头上。我想，听到博伊索恩先生此刻正在表达最无情和最热情的情感，额头上静静地栖息着一只脆弱的小生物，这很好地说明了他的性格。

‘By my soul, Jarndyce,’ he said, very gently holding up a bit of bread to the canary to peck at, ‘if I were in your place I would seize every master in Chancery by the throat tomorrow morning and shake him until his money rolled out of his pockets and his bones rattled in his skin. I would have a settlement out of somebody, by fair means or by foul. If you would empower me to do it, I would do it for you with the greatest satisfaction!’ (All this time the very small canary was eating out of his hand.)
“以我的灵魂发誓，贾迪斯，”他说，非常温柔地举起一块面包让金丝雀啄食，“如果我处在你的位置，明天早上我会掐住大法官办公室每一位主人的喉咙，摇晃他，直到他钱从他的口袋里滚出来，他的骨头在皮肤里嘎嘎作响。我会通过公平或不正当手段与某人达成和解。如果你授权我去做这件事，我会非常满意地为你做这件事！”（一直以来，那只很小的金丝雀都在从他手里吃东西。）

‘I thank you, Lawrence, but the suit is hardly at such a point at present,’ returned Mr. Jarndyce, laughing, ‘that it would be greatly advanced even by the legal process of shaking the bench and the whole bar.’
“我谢谢你，劳伦斯，但诉讼目前还没有到这样的地步，”贾迪斯先生笑着回答说，“即使通过法律程序来动摇法官席和整个律师事务所，它也会大大推进。”

‘There never was such an infernal cauldron as that Chancery on the face of the earth!’ said Mr. Boythorn. ‘Nothing but a mine below it on a busy day in term time, with all its records, rules, and precedents collected in it and every functionary belonging to it also, high and low, upward and downward, from its son the Accountant-General to its father the Devil, and the whole blown to atoms with ten thousand hundredweight of gunpowder, would reform it in the least!’
“地球表面上从来没有像大法官办公室这样地狱般的大锅！”博伊索恩先生说道。 “在繁忙的一天里，它下面什么也没有，所有的记录、规则和先例都收集在里面，每一个官员也都属于它，无论高低，向上还是向下，都来自它的儿子总会计师。”对它的父亲魔鬼来说，用一万英担的火药将其全部炸成原子，至少会改变它！

It was impossible not to laugh at the energetic gravity with which he recommended this strong measure of reform. When we laughed, he threw up his head and shook his broad chest, and again the whole country seemed to echo to his ‘Ha, ha, ha!’ It had not the least effect in disturbing the bird, whose sense of security was complete and who hopped about the table with its quick head now on this side and now on that, turning its bright sudden eye on its master as if he were no more than another bird.
他提出这一强有力的改革措施时所表现出的强烈的严肃性让人难以不发笑。当我们笑的时候，他抬起头，摇晃着宽阔的胸膛，整个国家似乎都在回响他的“哈、哈、哈！”这对小鸟的惊扰没有丝毫影响，小鸟的安全感十足。它在桌子上跳来跳去，敏捷的头一会儿转向这边，一会儿转向那边，突然用明亮的眼睛看着它的主人，仿佛他只不过是另一只鸟。

‘But how do you and your neighbour get on about the disputed right of way?’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘You are not free from the toils of the law yourself!’
“但是你和你的邻居在有争议的通行权问题上相处得怎么样呢？”贾迪斯先生说。 “你自己也未能摆脱法律的束缚！”

‘The fellow has brought actions against ME for trespass, and I have brought actions against HIM for trespass,’ returned Mr. Boythorn. ‘By heaven, he is the proudest fellow breathing. It is morally impossible that his name can be Sir Leicester. It must be Sir Lucifer.’
“这个家伙因非法侵入对我提起诉讼，我也因非法侵入对他提起诉讼，”博伊索恩先生回答道。 “天哪，他是最骄傲的人。”他的名字不可能是莱斯特爵士，这在道德上是不可能的。一定是路西法爵士。

‘Complimentary to our distant relation!’ said my guardian laughingly to Ada and Richard.
“对我们的远房亲戚表示称赞！”我的监护人笑着对艾达和理查德说道。

‘I would beg Miss Clare’s pardon and Mr. Carstone’s pardon,’ resumed our visitor, ‘if I were not reassured by seeing in the fair face of the lady and the smile of the gentleman that it is quite unnecessary and that they keep their distant relation at a comfortable distance.’
“请克莱尔小姐和卡斯通先生原谅，”我们的来访者继续说道，“如果我没有从那位女士的美丽脸庞和那位绅士的微笑中看到这让我放心，那是完全没有必要的，而且他们保持着距离。”保持舒适距离的关系。”

‘Or he keeps us,’ suggested Richard.
“或者他留住我们，”理查德建议道。

‘By my soul,’ exclaimed Mr. Boythorn, suddenly firing another volley, ‘that fellow is, and his father was, and his grandfather was, the most stiff-necked, arrogant imbecile, pig-headed numskull, ever, by some inexplicable mistake of Nature, born in any station of life but a walking-stick’s! The whole of that family are the most solemnly conceited and consummate blockheads! But it’s no matter; he should not shut up my path if he were fifty baronets melted into one and living in a hundred Chesney Wolds, one within another, like the ivory balls in a Chinese carving. The fellow, by his agent, or secretary, or somebody, writes to me ‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, presents his compliments to Mr. Lawrence Boythorn, and has to call his attention to the fact that the green pathway by the old parsonage-house, now the property of Mr. Lawrence Boythorn, is Sir Leicester’s right of way, being in fact a portion of the park of chesney Wold, and that Sir Leicester finds it convenient to close up the same.’ I write to the fellow, ‘Mr. Lawrence Boythorn presents his compliments to Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, and has to call HIS attention to the fact that he totally denies the whole of Sir Leicester Dedlock’s positions on every possible subject and has to add, in reference to closing up the pathway, that he will be glad to see the man who may undertake to do it.’ The fellow sends a most abandoned villain with one eye to construct a gateway. I play upon that execrable scoundrel with a fire-engine until the breath is nearly driven out of his body. The fellow erects a gate in the night. I chop it down and burn it in the morning. He sends his myrmidons to come over the fence and pass and repass. I catch them in humane man traps, fire split peas at their legs, play upon them with the engine—resolve to free mankind from the insupportable burden of the existence of those lurking ruffians. He brings actions for trespass; I bring actions for trespass. He brings actions for assault and battery; I defend them and continue to assault and batter. Ha, ha, ha!’
“凭我的灵魂，”博伊索恩先生突然又开了一枪，大声说道，“那个家伙，他的父亲，还有他的祖父，都是有史以来最顽固、最傲慢、最愚蠢、最猪头的笨蛋，被一些莫名其妙的人所迷惑。”大自然的错误，生于任何人生阶段，除了一根手杖！他们一家人都是最自负最完美的笨蛋！但没关系；如果他是五十个男爵合而为一，生活在一百个切斯尼丘陵中，一个又一个，就像中国雕刻中的象牙球一样，他就不应该封锁我的道路。那家伙通过他的代理人、秘书或其他人写信给我：“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，向劳伦斯·博伊索恩先生致意，并不得不提请他注意老牧师住宅旁的绿色通道——这所房子现在是劳伦斯·博伊索恩先生的财产，是莱斯特爵士的通行权，实际上是切斯尼沃尔德公园的一部分，莱斯特爵士发现关闭同样的公园很方便。”我写信给那个家伙， '先生。劳伦斯·博伊索恩（Lawrence Boythorn）向莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士（Baronet）致意，并必须提请他注意这样一个事实：他完全否认莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士在所有可能的主题上的全部立场，并且在关闭道路时必须补充说，他会很高兴见到愿意这样做的人。”这家伙派了一个最被遗弃的只有一只眼睛的恶棍去建造一个门户。我用消防车打那个可恶的恶棍，直到他几乎喘不过气来。那家伙在夜里竖起了门。我早上把它砍下来烧掉。他派他的侍从翻过栅栏，一遍又一遍地过去。 我用人道的陷阱抓住他们，在他们的腿上点燃豌豆，用发动机打他们——决心让人类摆脱那些潜伏的恶棍的存在所带来的难以承受的负担。他对非法侵入提起诉讼；我对非法侵入提出诉讼。他对袭击和殴打提起诉讼；我捍卫他们并继续攻击和殴打。哈哈哈！’

To hear him say all this with unimaginable energy, one might have thought him the angriest of mankind. To see him at the very same time, looking at the bird now perched upon his thumb and softly smoothing its feathers with his forefinger, one might have thought him the gentlest. To hear him laugh and see the broad good nature of his face then, one might have supposed that he had not a care in the world, or a dispute, or a dislike, but that his whole existence was a summer joke.
听到他以难以想象的能量说出这一切，人们可能会认为他是人类中最愤怒的人。就在同一时间看到他，看着那只鸟现在栖息在他的拇指上，并用食指轻轻地抚平它的羽毛，人们可能会认为他是最温柔的人。听到他的笑声，看到他脸上宽广的善良本性，人们可能会认为他对这个世界没有忧虑，没有争议，没有厌恶，但他的整个存在只是一个夏天的笑话。

‘No, no,’ he said, ‘no closing up of my paths by any Dedlock! Though I willingly confess,’ here he softened in a moment, ‘that Lady Dedlock is the most accomplished lady in the world, to whom I would do any homage that a plain gentleman, and no baronet with a head seven hundred years thick, may. A man who joined his regiment at twenty and within a week challenged the most imperious and presumptuous coxcomb of a commanding officer that ever drew the breath of life through a tight waist—and got broke for it—is not the man to be walked over by all the Sir Lucifers, dead or alive, locked or unlocked. Ha, ha, ha!’
“不，不，”他说，“任何戴洛克都不能封锁我的道路！”尽管我心甘情愿地承认，”说到这里，他的语气一下子软化了，“戴德洛克夫人是世界上最有成就的女士，我愿意向她致以任何敬意，一位朴素的绅士，而不是一个七百年来头颅厚重的男爵，可能会向她致以崇高的敬意。 。一个二十岁入伍的人，在一周之内就挑战了最专横、最自以为是的花花公子指挥官，这位指挥官曾经通过紧绷的腰部呼吸着生命的气息，并为此破产了，他不是一个可以被人踩过去的人。所有的路西法爵士，无论是死的还是活着的，上锁的还是解锁的。哈、哈、哈！

‘Nor the man to allow his junior to be walked over either?’ said my guardian.
“那个人也不允许他的后辈被人踩倒吗？”我的监护人说道。

‘Most assuredly not!’ said Mr. Boythorn, clapping him on the shoulder with an air of protection that had something serious in it, though he laughed. ‘He will stand by the low boy, always. Jarndyce, you may rely upon him! But speaking of this trespass— with apologies to Miss Clare and Miss Summerson for the length at which I have pursued so dry a subject—is there nothing for me from your men Kenge and Carboy?’
“绝对不是！”博伊索恩先生一边说，一边笑着拍着他的肩膀，脸上带着一种严肃的保护神情。 “他会永远站在这个卑微的男孩一边。贾迪斯，你可以信赖他！但是说到这次的越轨——对于我花了这么长的时间来探讨这个枯燥的话题，我向克莱尔小姐和萨默森小姐表示歉意——你们的手下肯格和卡博伊对我没有什么帮助吗？

‘I think not, Esther?’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“我想不是，埃丝特？”贾迪斯先生说。

‘Nothing, guardian.’
“没什么，监护人。”

‘Much obliged!’ said Mr. Boythorn. ‘Had no need to ask, after even my slight experience of Miss Summerson’s forethought for every one about her.’ (They all encouraged me; they were determined to do it.) ‘I inquired because, coming from Lincolnshire, I of course have not yet been in town, and I thought some letters might have been sent down here. I dare say they will report progress tomorrow morning.’
“非常感谢！”博伊索恩先生说。 “没有必要问，即使我对萨默森小姐对她的每一个人都深谋远虑，我也没有必要问。”（他们都鼓励我；他们决心这样做。）“我问这个问题是因为，我来自林肯郡，我当然有还没进城，我想有些信可能已经寄到这里了。我敢说他们明天早上就会报告进展情况。”

I saw him so often in the course of the evening, which passed very pleasantly, contemplate Richard and Ada with an interest and a satisfaction that made his fine face remarkably agreeable as he sat at a little distance from the piano listening to the music—and he had small occasion to tell us that he was passionately fond of music, for his face showed it—that I asked my guardian as we sat at the backgammon board whether Mr. Boythorn had ever been married.
整个晚上我经常见到他，整个晚上过得非常愉快，当他坐在离钢琴不远的地方听音乐时，他饶有兴趣和满足地注视着理查德和艾达，这让他那张漂亮的脸显得非常令人愉快——他很少有机会告诉我们他非常喜欢音乐，从他的脸上就可以看出这一点——当我们坐在西洋双陆棋棋盘前时，我问我的监护人博伊索恩先生是否结过婚。

‘No,’ said he. ‘No.’
“不，”他说。 '不。'

‘But he meant to be!’ said I.
“但他本来就是这样的！”我说。

‘How did you find out that?’ he returned with a smile. ‘Why, guardian,’ I explained, not without reddening a little at hazarding what was in my thoughts, ‘there is something so tender in his manner, after all, and he is so very courtly and gentle to us, and —‘
“你是怎么知道的？”他微笑着回答。 “哎呀，监护人，”我解释道，因为担心自己的想法，脸不免有些红了，“毕竟，他的举止是如此温柔，而且他对我们又是如此彬彬有礼、温柔，而且——”

Mr. Jarndyce directed his eyes to where he was sitting as I have just described him.
贾迪斯先生将目光转向他所坐的地方，正如我刚才描述的那样。

I said no more.
我不再说话了。

‘You are right, little woman,’ he answered. ‘He was all but married once. Long ago. And once.’
“你是对的，小女人，”他回答道。 “他几乎结过一次婚。很久以前。一次。

‘Did the lady die?’
“那位女士死了吗？”

‘No—but she died to him. That time has had its influence on all his later life. Would you suppose him to have a head and a heart full of romance yet?’
“不——但她对他来说已经死了。那段时间对他后来的生活产生了影响。你认为他的头脑和内心充满浪漫吗？

‘I think, guardian, I might have supposed so. But it is easy to say that when you have told me so.’
“我想，监护人，我可能会这么认为。但当你告诉我这一点时，说起来就很容易了。”

‘He has never since been what he might have been,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘and now you see him in his age with no one near him but his servant and his little yellow friend. It’s your throw, my dear!’
“从那时起，他再也没有成为他本来应该成为的样子，”贾迪斯先生说，“现在你看到他在他这个年纪，除了他的仆人和他的小黄人朋友之外，没有人在他身边。”这是你的投掷，亲爱的！

I felt, from my guardian’s manner, that beyond this point I could not pursue the subject without changing the wind. I therefore forbore to ask any further questions. I was interested, but not curious. I thought a little while about this old love story in the night, when I was awakened by Mr. Boythorn’s lusty snoring; and I tried to do that very difficult thing, imagine old people young again and invested with the graces of youth. But I fell asleep before I had succeeded, and dreamed of the days when I lived in my godmother’s house. I am not sufficiently acquainted with such subjects to know whether it is at all remarkable that I almost always dreamed of that period of my life.
从我监护人的态度来看，我觉得，除了这一点，我无法在不改变风向的情况下继续讨论这个话题。因此我没有再问任何进一步的问题。我很感兴趣，但并不好奇。夜里，我想了一会儿这个古老的爱情故事，这时我被博伊索恩先生的鼾声吵醒了。我试图做一件非常困难的事情，想象老年人再次年轻并投入青春的优雅。但我还没成功就睡着了，梦见了住在教母家里的日子。我对这些主题还不够熟悉，不知道我几乎总是梦到我生命中的那段时期是否有什么了不起。

With the morning there came a letter from Messrs. Kenge and Carboy to Mr. Boythorn informing him that one of their clerks would wait upon him at noon. As it was the day of the week on which I paid the bills, and added up my books, and made all the household affairs as compact as possible, I remained at home while Mr. Jarndyce, Ada, and Richard took advantage of a very fine day to make a little excursion, Mr. Boythorn was to wait for Kenge and Carboy’s clerk and then was to go on foot to meet them on their return.
第二天早上，肯格和卡博伊先生给博伊索恩先生写了一封信，通知他他们的一名职员将在中午接待他。因为这一天是我支付账单、汇总账簿、尽可能精简所有家务的日子，所以我留在家里，而贾迪斯先生、艾达和理查德则充分利用了这一天。天气很好，适合出去走走，博伊索恩先生要等待肯格和卡博伊的职员，然后步行去接他们回来。

Well! I was full of business, examining tradesmen’s books, adding up columns, paying money, filing receipts, and I dare say making a great bustle about it when Mr. Guppy was announced and shown in. I had had some idea that the clerk who was to be sent down might be the young gentleman who had met me at the coach-office, and I was glad to see him, because he was associated with my present happiness.
出色地！我正忙着检查商人的账簿、统计栏目、付钱、归档收据，我敢说当古比先生被宣布并被带进来时，我对此非常忙碌。被送下去的可能是那位在教练室遇见我的年轻绅士，我很高兴见到他，因为他与我现在的幸福息息相关。

I scarcely knew him again, he was so uncommonly smart. He had an entirely new suit of glossy clothes on, a shining hat, lilac-kid gloves, a neckerchief of a variety of colours, a large hot-house flower in his button-hole, and a thick gold ring on his little finger. Besides which, he quite scented the dining-room with bear’s-grease and other perfumery. He looked at me with an attention that quite confused me when I begged him to take a seat until the servant should return; and as he sat there crossing and uncrossing his legs in a corner, and I asked him if he had had a pleasant ride, and hoped that Mr. Kenge was well, I never looked at him, but I found him looking at me in the same scrutinizing and curious way.
我几乎不再认识他了，他是如此的聪明。他穿着一套全新的光亮衣服，戴着一顶闪亮的帽子，戴着淡紫色的小羊皮手套，一条各种颜色的围巾，纽扣孔里插着一朵大温室花，小指上戴着一枚厚厚的金戒指。除此之外，他还用熊油和其他香料使餐厅充满香味。当我请求他坐下等仆人回来时，他用一种专注的目光看着我，这让我很困惑。当他坐在角落里，双腿交叉又分开，我问他骑行是否愉快，并希望肯格先生一切都好时，我从未看他，但我发现他在车里看着我。同样的审视和好奇的方式。

When the request was brought to him that he would go up-stairs to Mr. Boythorn’s room, I mentioned that he would find lunch prepared for him when he came down, of which Mr. Jarndyce hoped he would partake. He said with some embarrassment, holding the handle of the door, ‘“Shall I have the honour of finding you here, miss?’ I replied yes, I should be there; and he went out with a bow and another look.
当有人要求他上楼去博伊索恩先生的房间时，我提到他下楼时会发现为他准备的午餐，贾迪斯先生希望他能享用。他握着门把手，有些尴尬地说：“小姐，我很荣幸能在这里找到您吗？”我回答说是的，我应该在那里；他鞠了一躬，又看了一眼，走了出去。

I thought him only awkward and shy, for he was evidently much embarrassed; and I fancied that the best thing I could do would be to wait until I saw that he had everything he wanted and then to leave him to himself. The lunch was soon brought, but it remained for some time on the table. The interview with Mr. Boythorn was a long one, and a stormy one too, I should think, for although his room was at some distance I heard his loud voice rising every now and then like a high wind, and evidently blowing perfect broadsides of denunciation.
我以为他只是尴尬和害羞，因为他显然非常尴尬。我想我能做的最好的事情就是等到我看到他拥有他想要的一切，然后让他独自一人。午餐很快就送来了，但它在桌子上停留了一段时间。对博伊索恩先生的采访是一场漫长的采访，我认为也是一场暴风雨般的采访，因为尽管他的房间距离我有一段距离，但我听到他大声的声音不时地升起，像一阵狂​​风，显然吹起了完美的侧面谴责。

At last Mr. Guppy came back, looking something the worse for the conference. ‘My eye, miss,’ he said in a low voice, ‘he’s a Tartar!’
最后，古比先生回来了，看上去会议情况变得更糟了。 “我的眼睛，小姐，”他低声说道，“他是一个鞑靼人！”

‘Pray take some refreshment, sir,’ said I.
“请吃点点心，先生，”我说。

Mr. Guppy sat down at the table and began nervously sharpening the carving-knife on the carving-fork, still looking at me (as I felt quite sure without looking at him) in the same unusual manner. The sharpening lasted so long that at last I felt a kind of obligation on me to raise my eyes in order that I might break the spell under which he seemed to labour, of not being able to leave off.
孔雀鱼先生在桌边坐下，开始紧张地磨着切肉叉上的切肉刀，仍然以同样不寻常的方式看着我（我在不看他的情况下也很确定）。这种磨砺持续了很长时间，最后我觉得自己有一种义务抬起眼睛，这样我就可以打破他似乎在努力、无法停止的魔咒。

He immediately looked at the dish and began to carve.
他立即看了一眼这道菜，然后开始雕刻。

‘What will you take yourself, miss? You’ll take a morsel of something?’
“小姐，你要带什么？你要吃一点东西吗？

‘No, thank you,’ said I.
“不用了，谢谢你，”我说。

‘Shan’t I give you a piece of anything at all, miss?’ said Mr. Guppy, hurriedly drinking off a glass of wine.
“小姐，我难道不给你一块东西吗？”古皮先生说，赶紧喝掉了一杯酒。

‘Nothing, thank you,’ said I. ‘I have only waited to see that you have everything you want. Is there anything I can order for you?’
“没什么，谢谢你，”我说，“我只是等着看你得到你想要的一切。”有什么我可以为您订购的吗？

‘No, I am much obliged to you, miss, I’m sure. I’ve everything that I can require to make me comfortable—at least I—not comfortable— I’m never that.’ He drank off two more glasses of wine, one after another.
“不，我确信我非常感谢你，小姐。我拥有让自己舒服所需的一切——至少我——不舒服——我从来都不是这样。”他又喝了两杯酒，一杯又一杯。

I thought I had better go.
我想我最好还是走吧。

‘I beg your pardon, miss!’ said Mr. Guppy, rising when he saw me rise. ‘But would you allow me the favour of a minute’s private conversation?’
“请您原谅，小姐！”孔雀先生看见我站起来，就站了起来。 “但是你能允许我进行一分钟的私人谈话吗？”

Not knowing what to say, I sat down again.
我不知道该说什么，又坐了下来。

‘What follows is without prejudice, miss?’ said Mr. Guppy, anxiously bringing a chair towards my table.
“接下来的内容不会造成偏见，小姐？”古皮先生焦急地把一把椅子搬到我的桌子边说道。

‘I don’t understand what you mean,’ said I, wondering.
“我不明白你的意思，”我疑惑地说。

‘It’s one of our law terms, miss. You won’t make any use of it to my detriment at Kenge and Carboy’s or elsewhere. If our conversation shouldn’t lead to anything, I am to be as I was and am not to be prejudiced in my situation or worldly prospects. In short, it’s in total confidence.’
“这是我们的法律条款之一，小姐。你不会在肯格和卡博伊店或其他地方利用它来损害我的利益。如果我们的谈话没有结果，我就保持原来的样子，不要对我的处境或世俗前景抱有偏见。简而言之，这是完全有信心的。

‘I am at a loss, sir,’ said I, ‘to imagine what you can have to communicate in total confidence to me, whom you have never seen but once; but I should be very sorry to do you any injury.’
“我不知所措，先生，”我说道，“想象不出你能完全自信地向我传达什么信息，因为你只见过我一次；但我很抱歉对你造成任何伤害。

‘Thank you, miss. I’m sure of it—that’s quite sufficient.’ All this time Mr. Guppy was either planing his forehead with his handkerchief or tightly rubbing the palm of his left hand with the palm of his right. ‘If you would excuse my taking another glass of wine, miss, I think it might assist me in getting on without a continual choke that cannot fail to be mutually unpleasant.’
「谢谢你，小姐。我确信这一点——这就足够了。”一直以来，孔雀先生要么用手帕刨着额头，要么用右手紧紧地摩擦着左手的手掌。 “小姐，如果您能原谅我再喝一杯酒，我想这可能会帮助我继续前进，而不会出现持续的窒息，这肯定会导致双方不愉快。”

He did so, and came back again. I took the opportunity of moving well behind my table.
他这样做了，然后又回来了。我抓住机会走到桌子后面。

‘You wouldn’t allow me to offer you one, would you miss?’ said Mr. Guppy, apparently refreshed.
“你不会允许我给你一个，你会错过吗？”古皮先生说道，他显然精神焕发。

‘Not any,’ said I.
“没有。”我说。

‘Not half a glass?’ said Mr. Guppy. ‘Quarter? No! Then, to proceed. My present salary, Miss Summerson, at Kenge and Carboy’s, is two pound a week. When I first had the happiness of looking upon you, it was one fifteen, and had stood at that figure for a lengthened period. A rise of five has since taken place, and a further rise of five is guaranteed at the expiration of a term not exceeding twelve months from the present date. My mother has a little property, which takes the form of a small life annuity, upon which she lives in an independent though unassuming manner in the Old Street Road. She is eminently calculated for a mother-in-law. She never interferes, is all for peace, and her disposition easy. She has her failings—as who has not?—but I never knew her do it when company was present, at which time you may freely trust her with wines, spirits, or malt liquors. My own abode is lodgings at Penton Place, Pentonville. It is lowly, but airy, open at the back, and considered one of the ‘ealthiest outlets. Miss Summerson! In the mildest language, I adore you. Would you be so kind as to allow me (as I may say) to file a declaration—to make an offer!’
“不喝半杯吗？”孔雀先生说。 '四分之一？不！然后，继续。萨默森小姐，我现在在肯格和卡博伊店的工资是每周两英镑。当我第一次有幸看到你时，已经是十五点了，而且我已经在这个数字上站了很长一段时间了。此后已经增加了 5 个，并保证在自当前日期起不超过 12 个月的期限届满时进一步增加 5 个。我母亲有一点财产，是一笔小额的终身年金，她靠着这些财产独立而又谦虚地生活在老街。她对于婆婆来说是非常算计的。她从不干涉，一切都是为了和平，性情也很随和。她有她的缺点——谁没有呢？——但我从来不知道她在有人在场的时候会这么做，那时你可以放心地信任她，给她提供葡萄酒、烈酒或麦芽酒。我自己的住所是彭顿维尔彭顿广场的住宿。它位置低矮，但通风良好，后面开放，被认为是“最健康的商店之一”。萨默森小姐！用最温和的语言，我崇拜你。请您允许我（正如我可能会说的那样）提交一份声明——提出报价！

Mr. Guppy went down on his knees. I was well behind my table and not much frightened. I said, ‘Get up from that ridiculous position lmmediately, sir, or you will oblige me to break my implied promise and ring the bell!’
古比先生跪下。我在桌子后面，并没有太害怕。我说：“先生，请立即从那个可笑的位置站起来，否则你将迫使我违背我的默示承诺并按响门铃！”

‘Hear me out, miss!’ said Mr. Guppy, folding his hands.
“听我说完，小姐！”古比先生双手合十地说。

‘I cannot consent to hear another word, sir,’ I returned, ‘Unless you get up from the carpet directly and go and sit down at the table as you ought to do if you have any sense at all.’
“我不能同意再听一个字，先生，”我回答道，“除非您直接从地毯上站起来，走到桌边坐下，如果您还有一点理智，就应该这样做。”

He looked piteously, but slowly rose and did so.
他看上去很可怜，但还是慢慢站了起来。

‘Yet what a mockery it is, miss,’ he said with his hand upon his heart and shaking his head at me in a melancholy manner over the tray, ‘to be stationed behind food at such a moment. The soul recoils from food at such a moment, miss.’
“然而，小姐，”他把手放在心口上，在托盘上忧郁地向我摇着头说，“在这样的时刻站在食物后面。”在这样的时刻，灵魂会对食物产生畏缩，小姐。”

‘I beg you to conclude,’ said I; ‘you have asked me to hear you out, and I beg you to conclude.’
“我请求你得出结论，”我说。 “你让我听你说完，我请求你得出结论。”

‘I will, miss,’ said Mr. Guppy. ‘As I love and honour, so likewise I obey. Would that I could make thee the subject of that vow before the shrine!’
“我会的，小姐，”古比先生说。 ‘正如我所爱和尊敬的那样，我同样服从。但愿我能让你成为神殿前发誓的对象！

‘That is quite impossible,’ said I, ‘and entirely out of the question.’
“这是完全不可能的，”我说，“而且完全不可能。”

‘I am aware,’ said Mr. Guppy, leaning forward over the tray and regarding me, as I again strangely felt, though my eyes were not directed to him, with his late intent look, ‘I am aware that in a worldly point of view, according to all appearances, my offer is a poor one. But, Miss Summerson! Angel! No, don’t ring—I have been brought up in a sharp school and am accustomed to a variety of general practice. Though a young man, I have ferreted out evidence, got up cases, and seen lots of life. Blest with your hand, what means might I not find of advancing your interests and pushing your fortunes! What might I not get to know, nearly concerning you? I know nothing now, certainly; but what MIGHT I not if I had your confidence, and you set me on?’
“我知道，”孔雀先生说，他在托盘上倾身向前，看着我，尽管我的眼睛没有指向他，但他迟来的专注的表情让我再次感到奇怪，“我知道，从世俗的角度来看，显然，从各方面看来，我的报价很差劲。但是，萨默森小姐！天使！不，不要打电话——我是在一所尖锐的学校长大的，已经习惯了各种一般的做法。虽然我还是个年轻人，但我已经搜出了证据，办了案子，见识了很多生活。祝福你的手，我能找到什么方法来促进你的利益和推动你的财富！有什么是我不知道的，几乎与你有关？当然，我现在一无所知；但如果我得到你的信任并且你让我兴奋的话，我能做什么呢？

I told him that he addressed my interest or what he supposed to be my interest quite as unsuccessfully as he addressed my inclination, and he would now understand that I requested him, if he pleased, to go away immediately.
我告诉他，他谈到了我的兴趣或他认为是我的兴趣，就像他谈到了我的倾向一样不成功，他现在明白了，如果他愿意的话，我要求他立即离开。

‘Cruel miss,’ said Mr. Guppy, ‘hear but another word! I think you must have seen that I was struck with those charms on the day when I waited at the Whytorseller. I think you must have remarked that I could not forbear a tribute to those charms when I put up the steps of the ‘ackney-coach. It was a feeble tribute to thee, but it was well meant. Thy image has ever since been fixed in my breast. I have walked up and down of an evening opposite Jellyby’s house only to look upon the bricks that once contained thee. This out of today, quite an unnecessary out so far as the attendance, which was its pretended object, went, was planned by me alone for thee alone. If I speak of interest, it is only to recommend myself and my respectful wretchedness. Love was before it, and is before it.’
“残酷的小姐，”孔雀先生说，“再听我说一句话！”我想你一定已经看到，当我在 Whytorseller 等候的那天，我就被这些魅力所震撼。我想你一定已经说过，当我踏上阿克尼马车的台阶时，我忍不住要向这些魅力致敬。这是对你的微弱的敬意，但却是善意的。从此，你的形象就深深地印在了我的心里。一个晚上，我在杰利比家对面走来走去，只是为了看看曾经容纳过你的砖块。从今天开始，就出席活动而言，这是完全不必要的，而出席活动是其假装的目的，是我一个人为你单独计划的。如果我说起兴趣，那只是为了推荐我自己和我尊敬的不幸。爱在它之前，现在也在它之前。

‘I should be pained, Mr. Guppy,’ said I, rising and putting my hand upon the bell-rope, ‘to do you or any one who was sincere the injustice of slighting any honest feeling, however disagreeably expressed. If you have really meant to give me a proof of your good opinion, though ill-timed and misplaced, I feel that I ought to thank you. I have very little reason to be proud, and I am not proud. I hope,’ I think I added, without very well knowing what I said, ‘that you will now go away as if you had never been so exceedingly foolish and attend to Messrs. Kenge and Carboy’s business.’
“我应该感到痛苦，孔雀先生，”我站起来，把手放在钟绳上，“如果你或任何一个真诚的人忽视了任何真诚的感情，无论表达得多么令人不快，都是不公正的。”如果你真的想向我证明你的好意见，尽管不合时宜，我觉得我应该感谢你。我没有什么理由骄傲，而且我也不骄傲。我想，”我想我补充道，虽然不太清楚我说了什么，“你现在就走开，就好像你从来没有这么愚蠢过一样，去忙肯格和卡博伊先生的事。”

‘Half a minute, miss!’ cried Mr. Guppy, checking me as I was about to ring. ‘This has been without prejudice?’
“等一下，小姐！”古比先生喊道，在我正要按铃时检查了我。 “这没有偏见吗？”

‘I will never mention it,’ said I, ‘unless you should give me future occasion to do so.’
“我永远不会提起这件事，”我说，“除非你以后给我机会这样做。”

‘A quarter of a minute, miss! In case you should think better at any time, however distant—THAT’S no consequence, for my feelings can never alter—of anything I have said, particularly what might I not do, Mr. William Guppy, eighty-seven, Penton Place, or if removed, or dead (of blighted hopes or anything of that sort), care of Mrs. Guppy, three hundred and two, Old Street Road, will be sufficient.’
“一刻钟，小姐！如果你在任何时候都应该更好地考虑我所说的任何事情，无论多么遥远——那没有什么后果，因为我的感情永远不会改变——尤其是我可能不做的事情，威廉·古皮先生，八十七岁，彭顿广场，或者如果搬走，或者死了（因为希望落空或类似的事情），照顾古皮太太，地址是老街路三百零二号，就足够了。

I rang the bell, the servant came, and Mr. Guppy, laying his written card upon the table and making a dejected bow, departed. Raising my eyes as he went out, I once more saw him looking at me after he had passed the door.
我按响了门铃，仆人来了，古比先生将写好的卡片放在桌子上，沮丧地鞠了一躬，离开了。当他走出去时，我抬起眼睛，经过门后，我再次看到他在看着我。

I sat there for another hour or more, finishing my books and payments and getting through plenty of business. Then I arranged my desk, and put everything away, and was so composed and cheerful that I thought I had quite dismissed this unexpected incident. But, when I went upstairs to my own room, I surprised myself by beginning to laugh about it and then surprised myself still more by beginning to cry about it. In short, I was in a flutter for a little while and felt as if an old chord had been more coarsely touched than it ever had been since the days of the dear old doll, long buried in the garden.
我又在那里坐了一个多小时，完成了我的书本和付款，并处理了很多事务。然后我整理好书桌，把所有东西都收起来，心情很平静，很高兴，我以为我已经把这件意外的事情抛在脑后了。但是，当我上楼回到自己的房间时，我惊讶地开始笑起来，然后更惊讶的是我开始哭起来。简而言之，我心烦意乱了一会儿，感觉好像一根古老的弦被比自从那个长期埋在花园里的亲爱的老洋娃娃时代以来更粗暴地触动过。

CHAPTER X
第十章


The Law-Writer
法律作家

On the eastern borders of Chancery Lane, that is to say, more particularly in Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street, Mr. Snagsby, lawstationer, pursues his lawful calling. In the shade of Cook’s Court, at most times a shady place, Mr. Snagsby has dealt in all sorts of blank forms of legal process; in skins and rolls of parchment; in paper—foolscap, brief, draft, brown, white, whiteybrown, and blotting; in stamps; in office-quills, pens, ink, Indiarubber, pounce, pins, pencils, sealing-wax, and wafers; in red tape and green ferret; in pocket-books, almanacs, diaries, and law lists; in string boxes, rulers, inkstands—glass and leaden—pen-knives, scissors, bodkins, and other small office-cutlery; in short, in articles too numerous to mention, ever since he was out of his time and went into partnership with Peffer. On that occasion, Cook’s Court was in a manner revolutionized by the new inscription in fresh paint, PEFFER AND SNAGSBY, displacing the time-honoured and not easily to be deciphered legend PEFFER only. For smoke, which is the London ivy, had so wreathed itself round Peffer’s name and clung to his dwelling-place that the affectionate parasite quite overpowered the parent tree.
在大法官巷的东部边界，也就是说，尤其是在库西托街的库克法院，律师斯纳格斯比先生正在追求他的合法使命。在库克法院的阴影下，大多数时候是一个阴暗的地方，斯纳格斯比先生处理过各种空白形式的法律程序；在羊皮纸和羊皮纸卷中；纸质——大便纸、简报、草稿、棕色、白色、白棕色和吸墨纸；在邮票中；办公用羽毛笔、钢笔、墨水、橡皮、笔、大头针、铅笔、密封蜡和薄饼；繁文缛节和绿色雪貂；存在于钱包、年鉴、日记和法律清单中；线盒、尺子、墨水瓶（玻璃和铅制）、钢笔刀、剪刀、短刀和其他小型办公餐具；简而言之，自从他离开自己的时代并与佩弗成为合伙人以来，文章多得不胜枚举。在那次场合，库克宫在某种程度上被新油漆的新铭文“PEFFER AND SNAGSBY”所彻底改变，取代了历史悠久且不易被破译的传奇人物“PEFFER”。因为烟雾，即伦敦常春藤，已经将自己包裹在佩弗的名字周围，并附着在他的住所上，以至于这种深情的寄生虫完全压倒了母树。

Peffer is never seen in Cook’s Court now. He is not expected there, for he has been recumbent this quarter of a century in the churchyard of St. Andrews, Holborn, with the waggons and hackneycoaches roaring past him all the day and half the night like one great dragon. If he ever steal forth when the dragon is at rest to air himself again in Cook’s Court until admonished to return by the crowing of the sanguine cock in the cellar at the little dairy in Cursitor Street, whose ideas of daylight it would be curious to ascertain, since he knows from his personal observation next to nothing about it—if Peffer ever do revisit the pale glimpses of Cook’s Court, which no law-stationer in the trade can positively deny, he comes invisibly, and no one is the worse or wiser.
佩弗现在再也没有出现在库克宫里了。人们并不认为他会在那里，因为他已经在霍尔本圣安德鲁斯的墓地里躺了四分之一个世纪了，马车和出租马车整天半夜像一条巨龙一样从他身边呼啸而过。如果他在巨龙休息时偷偷溜出去，再次在库克庭院里展翅高飞，直到库西托街小奶牛场的地窖里那只乐观的公鸡啼鸣声警告他回来，那么他对日光的看法会很奇怪。 ，因为他从他个人的观察中对此几乎一无所知——如果佩弗真的重新审视库克法院的苍白一瞥，这一点业内没有任何法律文具人员可以肯定地否认，他会隐形地到来，没有人比他更糟糕或更明智。 。

In his lifetime, and likewise in the period of Snagsby’s ‘time’ of seven long years, there dwelt with Peffer in the same lawstationering premises a niece—a short, shrewd niece, something too violently compressed about the waist, and with a sharp nose like a sharp autumn evening, inclining to be frosty towards the end. The Cook’s Courtiers had a rumour flying among them that the mother of this niece did, in her daughter’s childhood, moved by too jealous a solicitude that her figure should approach perfection, lace her up every morning with her maternal foot against the bed-post for a stronger hold and purchase; and further, that she exhibited internally pints of vinegar and lemon-juice, which acids, they held, had mounted to the nose and temper of the patient. With whichsoever of the many tongues of Rumour this frothy report originated, it either never reached or never influenced the ears of young Snagsby, who, having wooed and won its fair subject on his arrival at man’s estate, entered into two partnerships at once. So now, in Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street, Mr. Snagsby and the niece are one; and the niece still cherishes her figure, which, however tastes may differ, is unquestionably so far precious that there is mighty little of it.
在他的一生中，同样在斯纳格斯比的七年漫长的“时间”期间，有一个侄女与佩弗住在同一个法律文房里——一个矮小、精明的侄女，腰部被严重压缩，鼻子尖尖的。就像一个尖锐的秋夜，接近尾声时会变得寒冷。厨师的廷臣们中流传着这样一个谣言，说这位侄女的母亲在她女儿的童年时期，出于对女儿身材接近完美的嫉妒心，每天早上都会用她母亲的脚踩在床柱上，为她系上鞋带。更强的持有和购买力度；此外，她还向病人展示了几品脱的醋和柠檬汁，这些醋和柠檬汁中含有的酸会附着在病人的鼻子和脾气上。无论这种空洞的报道是由哪一种谣言发出的，它要么从未传到年轻的斯纳格斯比的耳中，要么从未影响到他，他在到达男人的庄园后就吸引并赢得了公平的主题，立即建立了两个伙伴关系。现在，在库西托街的库克法院，斯纳格斯比先生和侄女是其中一员。侄女仍然很珍惜她的身材，无论品味如何不同，毫无疑问，她的身材非常珍贵，以至于数量很少。

Mr. and Mrs. Snagsby are not only one bone and one flesh, but, to the neighbours’ thinking, one voice too. That voice, appearing to proceed from Mrs. Snagsby alone, is heard in Cook’s Court very often. Mr. Snagsby, otherwise than as he finds expression through these dulcet tones, is rarely heard. He is a mild, bald, timid man with a shining head and a scrubby clump of black hair sticking out at the back. He tends to meekness and obesity. As he stands at his door in Cook’s Court in his grey shop-coat and black calico sleeves, looking up at the clouds, or stands behind a desk in his dark shop with a heavy flat ruler, snipping and slicing at sheepskin in company with his two ‘prentices, he is emphatically a retiring and unassuming man. From beneath his feet, at such times, as from a shrill ghost unquiet in its grave, there frequently arise complainings and lamentations in the voice already mentioned; and haply, on some occasions when these reach a sharper pitch than usual, Mr. Snagsby mentions to the ‘prentices, ‘I think my little woman is a-giving it to Guster!’
斯纳斯比先生和夫人不仅是一根骨头和一根肉，而且在邻居看来，也是一个声音。这种声音似乎是斯纳斯比夫人一个人发出的，在库克宫里经常听到。斯纳斯比先生除了通过这些悦耳的音调表达自己的想法之外，很少有人听到他的声音。他是一个性格温和、秃顶、胆怯的男人，有着闪亮的脑袋，一簇稀疏的黑发从脑后伸出。他倾向于温顺和肥胖。当他穿着灰色大衣和黑色印花布袖子站在库克庭院的门口，仰望云彩时，或者站在黑暗店里的桌子后面，拿着一把厚重的平直尺，与他的手一起剪剪羊皮。他是两个学徒，显然是一个退休且谦虚的人。在这种时候，他的脚下，就像一个在坟墓里不安宁的尖声鬼魂，经常会在前面提到的声音中发出抱怨和哀叹。很可能，在某些情况下，当这些音调比平时更加​​尖锐时，斯纳斯比先生会向“学徒们提到，‘我想我的小女人正在把它交给古斯特！’”

This proper name, so used by Mr. Snagsby, has before now sharpened the wit of the Cook’s Courtiers to remark that it ought to be the name of Mrs. Snagsby, seeing that she might with great force and expression be termed a Guster, in compliment to her stormy character. It is, however, the possession, and the only possession except fifty shillings per annum and a very small box indifferently filled with clothing, of a lean young woman from a workhouse (by some supposed to have been christened Augusta) who, although she was farmed or contracted for during her growing time by an amiable benefactor of his species resident at Tooting, and cannot fail to have been developed under the most favourable circumstances, ‘has fits,’ which the parish can’t account for.
斯纳格斯比先生如此使用的这个专有名称，此前曾让厨师的廷臣们更加机智地评论说，这应该是斯纳格斯比夫人的名字，因为她可能会以极大的力量和表达方式被称为古斯特，在称赞她暴躁的性格。然而，它是一位来自济贫院（有人认为她被命名为奥古斯塔）的瘦瘦年轻女子的财产，也是除了每年五十先令和一个装满衣物的小盒子之外的唯一财产。在她成长期间，由居住在图廷的他的物种的一位和蔼可亲的捐助者耕种或承包，并且不可能不在最有利的情况下开发，“有问题”，教区无法解释这一点。

Guster, really aged three or four and twenty, but looking a round ten years older, goes cheap with this unaccountable drawback of fits, and is so apprehensive of being returned on the hands of her patron saint that except when she is found with her head in the pail, or the sink, or the copper, or the dinner, or anything else that happens to be near her at the time of her seizure, she is always at work. She is a satisfaction to the parents and guardians of the ‘prentices, who feel that there is little danger of her inspiring tender emotions in the breast of youth; she is a satisfaction to Mrs. Snagsby, who can always find fault with her; she is a satisfaction to Mr. Snagsby, who thinks it a charity to keep her. The law-stationer’s establishment is, in Guster’s eyes, a temple of plenty and splendour. She believes the little drawingroom upstairs, always kept, as one may say, with its hair in papers and its pinafore on, to be the most elegant apartment in Christendom. The view it commands of Cook’s Court at one end (not to mention a squint into Cursitor Street) and of Coavinses’ the sheriff’s officer’s backyard at the other she regards as a prospect of unequalled beauty. The portraits it displays in oil—and plenty of it too—of Mr. Snagsby looking at Mrs. Snagsby and of Mrs. Snagsby looking at Mr. Snagsby are in her eyes as achievements of Raphael or Titian. Guster has some recompenses for her many privations.
古斯特实际上只有三岁、四岁和二十岁，但看起来大约老了十岁，因为这种莫名其妙的痉挛缺陷而变得廉价，并且非常担心被归还到她的守护神手中，除非她被发现带有头颅在她癫痫发作时，在水桶、水槽、铜器、晚餐或她附近的任何其他东西中，她总是在工作。她让学徒们的父母和监护人感到满意，他们认为她在年轻人的心中激发温柔的情感几乎没有危险；斯纳斯比太太对她很满意，因为她总是能挑剔她的毛病。斯纳斯比先生对她感到很满意，他认为留住她是一种慈善事业。在古斯特眼中，法律站是一座富足而辉煌的殿堂。她相信楼上的小客厅是基督教世界中最优雅的公寓，人们可能会说，头发用报纸包裹着，围裙上也一直保持着。她认为，一头可以看到库克法院（更不用说可以斜视库西托街），另一头可以看到科文斯治安官的后院，景色无与伦比。它所展示的油画肖像——还有很多——斯纳斯比先生看着斯纳斯比夫人，以及斯纳斯比夫人看着斯纳斯比先生，在她眼里都是拉斐尔或提香的成就。古斯特对她的许多贫困有了一些补偿。

Mr. Snagsby refers everything not in the practical mysteries of the business to Mrs. Snagsby. She manages the money, reproaches the tax-gatherers, appoints the times and places of devotion on Sundays, licenses Mr. Snagsby’s entertainments, and acknowledges no responsibility as to what she thinks fit to provide for dinner, insomuch that she is the high standard of comparison among the neighbouring wives a long way down Chancery Lane on both sides, and even out in Holborn, who in any domestic passages of arms habitually call upon their husbands to look at the difference between their (the wives’) position and Mrs. Snagsby’s, and their (the husbands’) behaviour and Mr. Snagsby’s. Rumour, always flying bat-like about Cook’s Court and skimming in and out at everybody’s windows, does say that Mrs. Snagsby is jealous and inquisitive and that Mr. Snagsby is sometimes worried out of house and home, and that if he had the spirit of a mouse he wouldn’t stand it. It is even observed that the wives who quote him to their self-willed husbands as a shining example in reality look down upon him and that nobody does so with greater superciliousness than one particular lady whose lord is more than suspected of laying his umbrella on her as an instrument of correction. But these vague whisperings may arise from Mr. Snagsby’s being in his way rather a meditative and poetical man, loving to walk in Staple Inn in the summer-time and to observe how countrified the sparrows and the leaves are, also to lounge about the Rolls Yard of a Sunday afternoon and to remark (if in good spirits) that there were old times once and that you’d find a stone coffin or two now under that chapel, he’ll be bound, if you was to dig for it. He solaces his imagination, too, by thinking of the many Chancellors and Vices, and Masters of the Rolls who are deceased; and he gets such a flavour of the country out of telling the two ‘prentices how he HAS heard say that a brook ‘as clear as crystial’ once ran right down the middle of Holborn, when Turnstile really was a turnstile, leading slap away into the meadows—gets such a flavour of the country out of this that he never wants to go there.
斯纳格斯比先生将业务中不涉及实际奥秘的所有事情都向斯纳格斯比夫人提及。她管理金钱，责备收税人，指定周日的礼拜时间和地点，许可斯纳格斯比先生的娱乐活动，并且不承担她认为适合提供晚餐的任何责任，因为她是高标准的沿着大法官巷两侧，甚至在霍尔本，对邻近的妻子进行比较，她们在任何家庭通道中都习惯性地要求她们的丈夫看看她们（妻子）的立场与斯纳斯比夫人的立场之间的差异，以及他们（丈夫）的行为和斯纳斯比先生的行为。谣言总是像蝙蝠一样在库克宫里飞来飞去，在每个人的窗户上飞来飞去，确实说斯纳格斯比夫人嫉妒又好奇，斯纳格斯比先生有时会担心外面的房子和家里，如果他有精神的话老鼠他受不了。甚至有人观察到，那些在现实中向自己任性的丈夫引用他的光辉榜样的妻子们都瞧不起他，而且没有人比一位特定的女士更傲慢地这样做，而她的主人被怀疑为她提供了保护伞。作为矫正的工具。但这些含糊的低语可能是因为斯纳斯比先生是一个沉思而富有诗意的人，他喜欢在夏天在斯台普旅馆散步，观察麻雀和树叶的乡村气息，也喜欢在劳斯莱斯上闲逛。周日下午的院子里，如果你心情好的话，你会说曾经有过一段旧时光，现在你会在那个教堂下找到一两个石棺，如果你要挖的话，他会被束缚的。 他还通过想起许多已故的大臣和副大臣以及劳斯莱斯大师来安慰自己的想象力。他从告诉两个“学徒”他如何听到说一条“清澈如水晶”的小溪曾经流过霍尔本的正中而获得了如此乡村的风味，当时旋转栅门确实是一个旋转栅门，引导着拍打着进入草地——从中得到了如此乡村的风味，以至于他永远不想去那里。

The day is closing in and the gas is lighted, but is not yet fully effective, for it is not quite dark. Mr. Snagsby standing at his shop-door looking up at the clouds sees a crow who is out late skim westward over the slice of sky belonging to Cook’s Court. The crow flies straight across Chancery Lane and Lincoln’s Inn Garden into Lincoln’s Inn Fields.
天色已近，煤气灯被点燃，但还没有完全发挥作用，因为天还没有完全黑。斯纳格斯比先生站在他的店门口抬头望着云彩，看到一只乌鸦正在外面向西掠过属于库克庭院的那片天空。乌鸦径直飞过大法官巷和林肯客栈花园，进入林肯客栈球场。

Here, in a large house, formerly a house of state, lives Mr. Tulkinghorn. It is let off in sets of chambers now, and in those shrunken fragments of its greatness, lawyers lie like maggots in nuts. But its roomy staircases, passages, and antechambers still remain; and even its painted ceilings, where Allegory, in Roman helmet and celestial linen, sprawls among balustrades and pillars, flowers, clouds, and big-legged boys, and makes the head ache—as would seem to be Allegory’s object always, more or less. Here, among his many boxes labelled with transcendent names, lives Mr. Tulkinghorn, when not speechlessly at home in country-houses where the great ones of the earth are bored to death. Here he is to-day, quiet at his table. An oyster of the old school whom nobody can open.
塔尔金霍恩先生住在这儿的一栋大房子里，以前是国事院。现在，它在成套的房间中被释放，在其伟大的那些缩小的碎片中，律师们像坚果里的蛆虫一样躺着。但其宽敞的楼梯、通道和前厅仍然保留着。甚至还有它的彩绘天花板，寓言戴着罗马头盔，穿着天上的亚麻布，四肢伸展地躺在栏杆和柱子、花朵、云彩和大腿男孩之间，让人头疼——这似乎总是或多或少地寓言的对象。在这里，塔尔金霍恩先生住在他的许多贴着超凡名字的盒子里，当他不在乡间别墅里无言以对时，地球上的伟人都无聊得要死。今天他就在这里，安静地坐在餐桌旁。没人能打开的老派牡蛎。

Like as he is to look at, so is his apartment in the dusk of the present afternoon. Rusty, out of date, withdrawing from attention, able to afford it. Heavy, broad-backed, old-fashioned, mahoganyand-horsehair chairs, not easily lifted; obsolete tables with spindle-legs and dusty baize covers; presentation prints of the holders of great titles in the last generation or the last but one, environ him. A thick and dingy Turkey-carpet muffles the floor where he sits, attended by two candles in old-fashioned silver candlesticks that give a very insufficient light to his large room. The titles on the backs of his books have retired into the binding; everything that can have a lock has got one; no key is visible. Very few loose papers are about. He has some manuscript near him, but is not referring to it. With the round top of an inkstand and two broken bits of sealing-wax he is silently and slowly working out whatever train of indecision is in his mind. Now tbe inkstand top is in the middle, now the red bit of sealing-wax, now the black bit. That’s not it. Mr. Tulkinghorn must gather them all up and begin again.
正如他所看到的那样，他的公寓在今天下午的黄昏中也是如此。生锈、过时、不受关注、买得起。笨重、宽背、老式、桃花心木和马毛的椅子，不易抬起；陈旧的桌子，有纺锤腿和布满灰尘的粗呢罩子；上一代或最后一代伟大头衔持有者的展示版画围绕着他。他坐的地板上铺着厚厚肮脏的火鸡地毯，老式银烛台上插着两根蜡烛，这给他的大房间带来了非常不足的光线。他的书背面的书名已经被装订了。凡是能有锁的东西都有一把；没有可见的钥匙。很少有松散的文件。他身边有一些手稿，但没有提及它。他拿着一个圆顶墨水瓶和两块碎封蜡，默默地、慢慢地弄清楚他脑子里犹豫不决的一连串想法。现在墨水台顶部在中间，现在是红色的密封蜡，现在是黑色的。不是这个。图金霍恩先生必须把他们全部召集起来并重新开始。

Here, beneath the painted ceiling, with foreshortened Allegory staring down at his intrusion as if it meant to swoop upon him, and he cutting it dead, Mr. Tulkinghorn has at once his house and office. He keeps no staff, only one middle-aged man, usually a little out at elbows, who sits in a high pew in the hall and is rarely overburdened with business. Mr. Tulkinghorn is not in a common way. He wants no clerks. He is a great reservoir of confidences, not to be so tapped. His clients want HIM; he is all in all. Drafts that he requires to be drawn are drawn by specialpleaders in the temple on mysterious instructions; fair copies that he requires to be made are made at the stationers’, expense being no consideration. The middle-aged man in the pew knows scarcely more of the affairs of the peerage than any crossing-sweeper in Holborn.
在这里，在彩绘天花板下，用透视缩短的寓言俯视着他的入侵，仿佛它要向他猛扑过来，然后他将其杀死，图金霍恩先生同时拥有了他的房子和办公室。他没有员工，只有一名中年男子，他通常坐在大厅的高位，很少因业务而负担过重。图金霍恩先生的行事方式并不寻常。他不需要职员。他是一个巨大的信心宝库，不应该被如此利用。他的客户需要他；他是一切的一切。他所要求的草稿是由圣殿中的特殊律师按照神秘的指示起草的；他要求制作的公平副本是由文具商制作的，费用不计。坐在座位上的中年男子对贵族事务的了解并不比霍尔本的任何道路清扫工多。

The red bit, the black bit, the inkstand top, the other inkstand top, the little sand-box. So! You to the middle, you to the right, you to the left. This train of indecision must surely be worked out now or never. Now! Mr. Tulkinghorn gets up, adjusts his spectacles, puts on his hat, puts the manuscript in his pocket, goes out, tells the middle-aged man out at elbows, ‘I shall be back presently.’ Very rarely tells him anything more explicit.
红色的部分，黑色的部分，墨水瓶顶部，另一个墨水瓶顶部，小沙盒。所以！你在中间，你在右边，你在左边。这一连串的犹豫不决必须立即解决，否则永远不会。现在！图金霍恩先生站起来，调整了眼镜，戴上帽子，将手稿放入口袋，走出去，对肘部的中年男子说：“我很快就会回来。”很少告诉他任何更明确的事情。

Mr. Tulkinghorn goes, as the crow came—not quite so straight, but nearly—to Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street. To Snagsby’s, LawStationer’s, Deeds engrossed and copied, Law-Writing executed in all its branches, &c., &c., &c.
当乌鸦飞来时，图金霍恩先生走了——虽然不是那么直，但也差不多了——到了库西托街的库克法院。对于斯纳格斯比的律师事务所，律师事务所，全神贯注和复制的契约，在其所有分支机构中执行的法律写作，等等。

It is somewhere about five or six o’clock in the afternoon, and a balmy fragrance of warm tea hovers in Cook’s Court. It hovers about Snagsby’s door. The hours are early there: dinner at half-past one and supper at half-past nine. Mr. Snagsby was about to descend into the subterranean regions to take tea when he looked out of his door just now and saw the crow who was out late.
时间大约是下午五六点钟左右，库克庭院里弥漫着一股温暖的茶香。它在斯纳斯比的门附近盘旋。那里的时间很早：一点点半吃晚饭，九点半吃晚饭。斯纳斯比先生正要下到地下去喝茶，这时他向门外望去，看到了那只迟到的乌鸦。

‘Master at home?’
“主人在家吗？”

Guster is minding the shop, for the ‘prentices take tea in the kitchen with Mr. and Mrs. Snagsby; consequently, the robe-maker’s two daughters, combing their curls at the two glasses in the two second-floor windows of the opposite house, are not driving the two ‘prentices to distraction as they fondly suppose, but are merely awakening the unprofitable admiration of Guster, whose hair won’t grow, and never would, and it is confidently thought, never will.
古斯特正在看管这家商店，因为“学徒们在厨房里和斯纳斯比先生和夫人一起喝茶；”因此，制袍师的两个女儿在对面房子的两扇二楼窗户上的两个玻璃杯上梳理卷发，并没有像他们天真地想象的那样让两个学徒心烦意乱，而只是唤醒了他们无益的钦佩。古斯特的头发不会长，而且永远不会长，而且人们自信地认为，永远不会长。

‘Master at home?’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn.
“主人在家吗？”图金霍恩先生说道。

Master is at home, and Guster will fetch him. Guster disappears, glad to get out of the shop, which she regards with mingled dread and veneration as a storehouse of awful implements of the great torture of the law—a place not to be entered after the gas is turned off.
主人在家，古斯特会去接他。古斯特消失了，很高兴走出了商店，她怀着混合着恐惧和崇敬的心情，把这家店看作是一个存放着法律严刑拷打的可怕工具的仓库——一个关掉煤气后就不能进入的地方。

Mr. Snagsby appears, greasy, warm, herbaceous, and chewing. Bolts a bit of bread and butter. Says, ‘Bless my soul, sir! Mr. Tulkinghorn!’
斯纳斯比先生出现了，油腻、温暖、有草本气息，而且很有嚼劲。撒上一点面包和黄油。说：‘保佑我的灵魂，先生！图金霍恩先生！

‘I want half a word with you, Snagsby.’
“我想和你说半句话，斯纳斯比。”

‘Certainly, sir! Dear me, sir, why didn’t you send your young man round for me? Pray walk into the back shop, sir.’ Snagsby has brightened in a moment.
'当然，先生！亲爱的先生，您为什么不派您的年轻人来接我呢？请走进后面的商店，先生。” 斯纳斯比立刻变得高兴起来。

The confined room, strong of parchment-grease, is warehouse, counting-house, and copying-office. Mr. Tulkinghorn sits, facing round, on a stool at the desk.
密闭的房间里覆盖着厚厚的羊皮纸油脂，是仓库、会计室和复印室。图金霍恩先生面朝四周坐在书桌旁的凳子上。

‘Jarndyce and Jarndyce, Snagsby.’
“加迪斯和加迪斯，斯纳斯比。”

‘Yes, sir.’ Mr. Snagsby turns up the gas and coughs behind his hand, modestly anticipating profit. Mr. Snagsby, as a timid man, is accustomed to cough with a variety of expressions, and so to save words.
“是的，先生。”斯纳斯比先生打开油门，用手捂住咳嗽声，谦虚地期待着利润。斯纳格斯比先生是个胆怯的人，习惯于用各种表情咳嗽，这样可以节省言语。

‘You copied some affidavits in that cause for me lately.’
“你最近为我复印了一些有关该案件的宣誓书。”

‘Yes, sir, we did.’
“是的，先生，我们做到了。”

‘There was one of them,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, carelessly feeling— tight, unopenable oyster of the old school!—in the wrong coatpocket, ‘the handwriting of which is peculiar, and I rather like. As I happened to be passing, and thought I had it about me, I looked in to ask you—but I haven’t got it. No matter, any other time will do. Ah! here it is! I looked in to ask you who copied this.’
“其中有一个，”塔尔金霍恩先生说，他漫不经心地摸索着——一种紧绷的、打不开的老派牡蛎！——在错误的衣袋里，“它的字迹很奇特，我很喜欢。”当我碰巧路过时，我以为我知道了，于是我向你询问——但我没有得到。没关系，其他时间都可以。啊!这里是！我进去是想问你是谁抄袭的。”

‘’Who copied this, sir?’ says Mr. Snagsby, taking it, laying it flat on the desk, and separating all the sheets at once with a twirl and a twist of the left hand peculiar to lawstationers. ‘We gave this out, sir. We were giving out rather a large quantity of work just at that time. I can tell you in a moment who copied it, sir, by referring to my book.’
“先生，这是谁抄的？”斯纳斯比先生接过它，把它平放在桌子上，然后用执法人员特有的左手一转和一扭，立即将所有纸张分开。 “我们已经把这个发出来了，先生。那时我们正在分发相当大量的工作。先生，通过参考我的书，我很快就能告诉你是谁抄袭的。”

Mr. Snagsby takes his book down from the safe, makes another bolt of the bit of bread and butter which seemed to have stopped short, eyes the affidavit aside, and brings his right forefinger travelling down a page of the book, ‘Jewby—Packer—Jarndyce.’
斯纳格斯比先生从保险箱里取出书，又把那块似乎突然停了下来的面包和黄油扔了出去，把宣誓书放在一边，用右手食指在书的一页上划过，“Jewby-Packer” ——贾迪斯。

‘Jarndyce! Here we are, sir,’ says Mr. Snagsby. ‘To be sure! I might have remembered it. This was given out, sir, to a writer who lodges just over on the opposite side of the lane.’
‘贾迪斯！先生，我们到了。”斯纳斯比先生说道。 '为了确定！我可能已经记住了。先生，这是发给一位住在巷子对面的作家的。

Mr. Tulkinghorn has seen the entry, found it before the lawstationer, read it while the forefinger was coming down the hill.
图金霍恩先生看过这个条目，在执法人员面前找到它，在食指下山时读了它。

‘WHAT do you call him? Nemo?’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘Nemo, sir. Here it is. Forty-two folio. Given out on the Wednesday night at eight o’clock, brought in on the Thursday morning at half after nine.’
‘你叫他什么？尼莫？”图金霍恩先生说。 ‘尼莫，先生。这里是。四十二对开本。周三晚上八点发出，周四早上九点半送来。

‘Nemo!’ repeats Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘Nemo is Latin for no one.’
“尼莫！”图金霍恩先生重复道。 “尼莫对任何人来说都是拉丁语。”

‘It must be English for some one, sir, I think,’ Mr. Snagsby submits with his deferential cough. ‘It is a person’s name. Here it is, you see, sir! Forty-two folio. Given out Wednesday night, eight o’clock; brought in Thursday morning, half after nine.’
“我想，这对某人来说一定是英语，先生，”斯纳斯比先生毕恭毕敬地咳嗽了一下。 ‘这是一个人的名字。就是这里，你看，先生！四十二对开本。周三晚上八点发出；周四早上九点半送来的。”

The tail of Mr. Snagsby’s eye becomes conscious of the head of Mrs. Snagsby looking in at the shop-door to know what he means by deserting his tea. Mr. Snagsby addresses an explanatory cough to Mrs. Snagsby, as who should say, ‘My dear, a customer!’
斯纳斯比先生的眼尾意识到斯纳斯比太太的头朝店门望去，想知道他放弃茶的意思。斯纳格斯比先生向斯纳格斯比夫人咳嗽一声解释性的，就像她应该说的那样：“亲爱的，一位顾客！”

‘Half after nine, sir,’ repeats Mr. Snagsby. ‘Our law-writers, who live by job-work, are a queer lot; and this may not be his name, but it’s the name he goes by. I remember now, sir, that he gives it in a written advertisement he sticks up down at the Rule Office, and the King’s Bench Office, and the Judges’ Chambers, and so forth. You know the kind of document, sir—wanting employ?’
“九点半，先生，”斯纳斯比先生重复道。 “我们靠工作谋生的法律作家是一群奇怪的人；这可能不是他的名字，但这是他的名字。先生，我现在记得，他在规则办公室、国王法官办公室、法官办公室等处张贴的书面广告中给出了这一点。先生，你知道那种文件——想要雇用吗？

Mr. Tulkinghorn glances through the little window at the back of Coavinses’, the sheriff’s officer’s, where lights shine in Coavinses’ windows. Coavinses’ coffee-room is at the back, and the shadows of several gentlemen under a cloud loom cloudily upon the blinds. Mr. Snagsby takes the opportunity of slightly turning his head to glance over his shoulder at his little woman and to make apologetic motions with his mouth to this effect: ‘Tul-king-horn— rich—in-flu-en-tial!’
图金霍恩先生透过科文斯警官办公室后面的小窗户看了一眼，科文斯的窗户里闪烁着灯光。科文斯的咖啡室在后面，几位绅士的影子在云朵下若隐若现地映在百叶窗上。斯纳斯比先生趁机稍微转过头，回头看了一眼他的小女人，并用嘴做了个道歉的动作，大意是这样的：“Tul-king-horn——富有——in-flu-ential！”

‘Have you given this man work before?’ asks Mr. Tulkinghorn.
“你以前给过这个人工作吗？”图金霍恩先生问道。

‘Oh, dear, yes, sir! Work of yours.’
“噢，亲爱的，是的，先生！你的工作。

‘Thinking of more important matters, I forget where you said he lived?’
“考虑更重要的事情，我忘了你说他住在哪里了？”

‘Across the lane, sir. In fact, he lodges at a—‘ Mr. Snagsby makes another bolt, as if the bit of bread and buffer were insurmountable ‘—at a rag and bottle shop.’
“穿过小巷，先生。事实上，他住在——“斯纳格斯比先生又开了一枪，好像那一点面包和缓冲器是不可逾越的”——在一家破布和瓶子商店。

‘Can you show me the place as I go back?’
“我回去时你能带我看看那个地方吗？”

‘With the greatest pleasure, sir!’
“非常荣幸，先生！”

Mr. Snagsby pulls off his sleeves and his grey coat, pulls on his black coat, takes his hat from its peg. ‘Oh! Here is my little woman!’ he says aloud. ‘My dear, will you be so kind as to tell one of the lads to look after the shop while I step across the lane with Mr. Tulkinghorn? Mrs. Snagsby, sir—I shan’t be two minutes, my love!’
斯纳斯比先生脱下袖子和灰色外套，穿上黑色外套，从挂钩上取下帽子。 '哦！这是我的小女人！”他大声说道。 “亲爱的，当我和图金霍恩先生一起穿过小巷时，你能请一位小伙子照看一下商店吗？”斯纳斯比夫人，先生——我不会两分钟，亲爱的！

Mrs. Snagsby bends to the lawyer, retires behind the counter, peeps at them through the window-blind, goes softly into the back office, refers to the entries in the book still lying open. Is evidently curious.
斯纳格斯比夫人向律师弯下腰，退到柜台后面，透过百叶窗偷看他们，然后轻轻地走进后台办公室，指着仍然打开的书本上的条目。显然是好奇。

‘You will find that the place is rough, sir,’ says Mr. Snagsby, walking deferentially in the road and leaving the narrow pavement to the lawyer; ‘and the party is very rough. But they’re a wild lot in general, sir. The advantage of this particular man is that he never wants sleep. He’ll go at it right on end if you want him to, as long as ever you like.’
“您会发现这个地方很崎岖，先生。”斯纳斯比先生毕恭毕敬地走在路上，把狭窄的人行道留给了律师。 '而且聚会非常粗暴。但总的来说，他们是一群狂野的人，先生。这个人的优点是他从不想睡觉。如果你愿意的话，他会一直做下去，只要你愿意。”

It is quite dark now, and the gas-lamps have acquired their full effect. Jostling against clerks going to post the day’s letters, and against counsel and attorneys going home to dinner, and against plaintiffs and defendants and suitors of all sorts, and against the general crowd, in whose way the forensic wisdom of ages has interposed a million of obstacles to the transaction of the commonest business of life; diving through law and equity, and through that kindred mystery, the street mud, which is made of nobody knows what and collects about us nobody knows whence or how— we only knowing in general that when there is too much of it we find it necessary to shovel it away—the lawyer and the law-stationer come to a rag and bottle shop and general emporium of much disregarded merchandise, lying and being in the shadow of the wall of Lincoln’s Inn, and kept, as is announced in paint, to all whom it may concern, by one Krook.
现在天已经黑了，煤气灯已经完全发挥作用了。与去邮寄当天信件的职员相争，与律师和律师回家吃饭相争，与原告、被告和形形色色的诉讼者相争，与普通大众相争，各个时代的法医智慧以他们的方式介入了数以百万计的案件。生活中最常见事务的交易遇到障碍；潜入法律和公平，以及类似的神秘，街道泥巴，它是由什么组成的，没有人知道它是由什么组成的，也没有人知道我们从哪里或如何收集——我们只知道一般情况下，当它太多时，我们发现它是必要的为了把它铲掉——律师和法律文具店来到了一家破布和瓶子店以及一家出售许多被忽视的商品的综合商场，它们躺在林肯律师学院墙的阴影下，并且正如油漆中所宣布的那样，一个克鲁克所涉及的所有人。

‘This is where he lives, sir,’ says the law-stationer.
“这就是他住的地方，先生，”法律文员说。

‘This is where he lives, is it?’ says the lawyer unconcernedly. ‘Thank you.’
“这就是他住的地方，是吗？”律师漫不经心地说。 '谢谢。'

‘Are you not going in, sir?’
“您不进去吗，先生？”

‘No, thank you, no; I am going on to the Fields at present. Good evening. Thank you!’ Mr. Snagsby lifts his hat and returns to his little woman and his tea.
“不，谢谢你，不；”我现在要去菲尔兹。晚上好。谢谢你！”斯纳斯比先生举起帽子，回到他的小女人和茶旁。

But Mr. Tulkinghorn does not go on to the Fields at present. He goes a short way, turns back, comes again to the shop of Mr. Krook, and enters it straight. It is dim enough, with a blot-headed candle or so in the windows, and an old man and a cat sitting in the back part by a fire. The old man rises and comes forward, with another blot-headed candle in his hand.
但图金霍恩先生目前没有继续前往菲尔兹。他走了一小段路，折回，又来到克鲁克先生的店里，径直走进去。房间很昏暗，窗户里插着一根黑头蜡烛左右，一位老人和一只猫坐在后面的火边。老人站起身来，手里拿着另一支墨头蜡烛。

‘Pray is your lodger within?’
“请问您的房客在里面吗？”

‘Male or female, sir?’ says Mr. Krook.
“先生，是男是女？”克鲁克先生说。

‘Male. The person who does copying.’
'男性。复印的人。

Mr. Krook has eyed his man narrowly. Knows him by sight. Has an indistinct impression of his aristocratic repute.
克鲁克先生仔细地打量着他的人。一眼就认识他了。对他的贵族名声有隐约的印象。

‘Did you wish to see him, sir?’
“您想见他吗，先生？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘It’s what I seldom do myself,’ says Mr. Krook with a grin. ‘Shall I call him down? But it’s a weak chance if he’d come, sir!’
“这是我自己很少做的事情，”克鲁克先生笑着说。 ‘我要叫他下来吗？但如果他来的话，机会就很小了，先生！”

‘I’ll go up to him, then,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn.
“那么我就去找他，”图金霍恩先生说。

‘Second floor, sir. Take the candle. Up there!’ Mr. Krook, with his cat beside him, stands at the bottom of the staircase, looking after Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘Hi-hi!’ he says when Mr. Tulkinghorn has nearly disappeared. The lawyer looks down over the hand-rail. The cat expands her wicked mouth and snarls at him.
“二楼，先生。拿蜡烛。就在上面！”克鲁克先生站在楼梯底部，身边带着他的猫，照顾着图金霍恩先生。 “嗨嗨！”当图尔金霍恩先生快要消失时，他说道。律师低头看着扶手。猫张开邪恶的嘴巴，对他咆哮。

‘Order, Lady Jane! Behave yourself to visitors, my lady! You know what they say of my lodger?’ whispers Krook, going up a step or two.
“命令，简女士！对待访客要守规矩，女士！你知道他们怎么评价我的房客吗？”克鲁克低声说道，上前一两步。

‘What do they say of him?’
“他们怎么说他？”

‘They say he has sold himself to the enemy, but you and I know better—he don’t buy. I’ll tell you what, though; my lodger is so black-humoured and gloomy that I believe he’d as soon make that bargain as any other. Don’t put him out, sir. That’s my advice!’
“他们说他把自己卖给了敌人，但你我都更清楚——他不买账。不过，我会告诉你什么；我的房客是如此的黑色幽默和忧郁，我相信他会像其他人一样尽快达成这笔交易。别把他赶出去，先生。这就是我的建议！

Mr. Tulkinghorn with a nod goes on his way. He comes to the dark door on the second floor. He knocks, receives no answer, opens it, and accidentally extinguishes his candle in doing so.
图金霍恩先生点点头，继续上路。他来到二楼那扇漆黑的门前。他敲门，没有得到回应，他打开门，却意外地熄灭了蜡烛。

The air of the room is almost bad enough to have extinguished it if he had not. It is a small room, nearly black with soot, and grease, and dirt. In the rusty skeleton of a grate, pinched at the middle as if poverty had gripped it, a red coke fire burns low. In the corner by the chimney stand a deal table and a broken desk, a wilderness marked with a rain of ink. In another corner a ragged old portmanteau on one of the two chairs serves for cabinet or wardrobe; no larger one is needed, for it collapses like the cheeks of a starved man. The floor is bare, except that one old mat, trodden to shreds of rope-yarn, lies perishing upon the hearth. No curtain veils the darkness of the night, but the discoloured shutters are drawn together, and through the two gaunt holes pierced in them, famine might be staring in—the banshee of the man upon the bed.
房间里的空气很糟糕，如果他不这么做的话，房间里的空气几乎就会被扑灭。这是一个小房间，几乎是黑色的，充满了烟灰、油脂和污垢。生锈的炉排骨架中间被挤压，仿佛贫困抓住了它，红色的焦炭火在微弱地燃烧。烟囱旁的角落里放着一张交易桌和一张破损的桌子，一片荒野被墨水雨标记着。在另一个角落，两把椅子中的一张上有一个破烂的旧组合，用作橱柜或衣柜；不需要更大的，因为它像饥饿的人的脸颊一样塌陷。地板上光秃秃的，只有一张旧垫子被踩成了绳纱碎片，躺在炉边，快要腐烂了。没有窗帘遮住夜晚的黑暗，但褪色的百叶窗拉在一起，透过百叶窗上的两个破洞，饥荒可能正在凝视着——床上男人的女妖。

For, on a low bed opposite the fire, a confusion of dirty patchwork, lean-ribbed ticking, and coarse sacking, the lawyer, hesitating just within the doorway, sees a man. He lies there, dressed in shirt and trousers, with bare feet. He has a yellow look in the spectral darkness of a candle that has guttered down until the whole length of its wick (still burning) has doubled over and left a tower of winding-sheet above it. His hair is ragged, mingling with his whiskers and his beard—the latter, ragged too, and grown, like the scum and mist around him, in neglect. Foul and filthy as the room is, foul and filthy as the air is, it is not easy to perceive what fumes those are which most oppress the senses in it; but through the general sickliness and faintness, and the odour of stale tobacco, there comes into the lawyer’s mouth the bitter, vapid taste of opium.
因为，在火炉对面的一张矮床上，肮脏的拼布、瘦肋的滴答声和粗麻袋的混乱，律师在门口犹豫着，看到一个男人。他躺在那里，穿着衬衫和裤子，赤着脚。在蜡烛的幽灵般的黑暗中，他的脸色呈黄色，蜡烛已经熄灭，直到整个烛芯（仍在燃烧）的长度翻了一番，在上面留下了一座裹尸布塔。他的头发参差不齐，与胡须和胡须混在一起——胡须也参差不齐，而且像他周围的浮渣和薄雾一样，在疏忽中长长了。尽管房间如此肮脏，空气也如此肮脏，但要察觉其中最压抑感官的烟雾是什么，却是不容易的；但是，由于普遍的病态和虚弱，以及陈旧烟草的气味，律师的口中进入了鸦片的苦涩、乏味的味道。

‘Hallo, my friend!’ he cries, and strikes his iron candlestick against the door.
“你好，我的朋友！”他喊道，并用铁烛台敲击门。

He thinks he has awakened his friend. He lies a little turned away, but his eyes are surely open.
他认为他已经唤醒了他的朋友。他侧身躺着，但眼睛肯定是睁着的。

‘Hallo, my friend!’ he cries again. ‘Hallo! Hallo!’
“你好，我的朋友！”他再次喊道。 ‘哈喽！你好！’

As he rattles on the door, the candle which has drooped so long goes out and leaves him in the dark, with the gaunt eyes in the shutters staring down upon the bed.
当他敲门时，早已垂落的蜡烛熄灭了，只剩下他在黑暗中，百叶窗里那双憔悴的眼睛低头盯着床上。

CHAPTER XI
第十一章


Our Dear Brother
我们亲爱的兄弟

A touch on the lawyer’s wrinkled hand as he stands in the dark room, irresolute, makes him start and say, ‘What’s that?’
当律师站在黑暗的房间里犹豫不决时，他布满皱纹的手被碰了一下，他惊讶地问道：“那是什么？”

‘It’s me,’ returns the old man of the house, whose breath is in his ear. ‘Can’t you wake him?’
“是我。”屋里的老人回答道，耳边有他的呼吸声。 “你不能叫醒他吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘What have you done with your candle?’
“你对蜡烛做了什么？”

‘It’s gone out. Here it is.’
‘已经出去了。这里是。'

Krook takes it, goes to the fire, stoops over the red embers, and tries to get a light. The dying ashes have no light to spare, and his endeavours are vain. Muttering, after an ineffectual call to his lodger, that he will go downstairs and bring a lighted candle from the shop, the old man departs. Mr. Tulkinghorn, for some new reason that he has, does not await his return in the room, but on the stairs outside.
克鲁克接过它，走到火边，在红色余烬上弯腰，试图去拿火。垂死的灰烬没有光亮，他的努力都是徒劳的。老人打电话给房客，要求他下楼从店里拿一支点燃的蜡烛，但没有成功，然后就离开了。图金霍恩先生出于某种新的原因，没有在房间里等待他回来，而是在外面的楼梯上等待。

The welcome light soon shines upon the wall, as Krook comes slowly up with his green-eyed cat following at his heels. ‘Does the man generally sleep like this?’ inquired the lawyer in a low voice. ‘Hi! I don’t know,’ says Krook, shaking his head and lifting his eyebrows. ‘I know next to nothing of his habits except that he keeps himself very close.’
受欢迎的灯光很快就照在墙上，克鲁克慢慢地走来，他的绿眼睛猫跟在他后面。 “男人一般都是这样睡觉的吗？”律师低声问道。 '你好！我不知道，”克鲁克摇摇头，扬起眉毛说道。 “我对他的习惯几乎一无所知，只知道他与人保持着非常亲密的关系。”

Thus whispering, they both go in together. As the light goes in, the great eyes in the shutters, darkening, seem to close. Not so the eyes upon the bed.
两人低声嘀咕着，一起走了进去。当光线照进来时，百叶窗上的大眼睛变暗，似乎闭上了。床上的眼睛却并非如此。

‘God save us!’ exclaims Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘He is dead!’ Krook drops the heavy hand he has taken up so suddenly that the arm swings over the bedside.
“上帝救救我们！”图金霍恩先生惊呼道。 “他死了！”克鲁克突然放下了握住的沉重的手，手臂在床边晃来晃去。

They look at one another for a moment.
他们互相看了一会儿。

‘Send for some doctor! Call for Miss Flite up the stairs, sir. Here’s poison by the bed! Call out for Flite, will you?’ says Krook, with his lean hands spread out above the body like a vampire’s wings.
‘派人去找医生来！先生，请弗利特小姐上楼梯。床边有毒药！呼唤弗利特，好吗？”克鲁克说道，他瘦削的双手像吸血鬼的翅膀一样伸展在身体上方。

Mr. Tulkinghorn hurries to the landing and calls, ‘Miss Flite! Flite! Make haste, here, whoever you are! Flite!’ Krook follows him with his eyes, and while he is calling, finds opportunity to steal to the old portmanteau and steal back again.
图金霍恩先生急忙跑到楼梯平台，喊道：“弗利特小姐！”飞利特！快点，在这里，不管你是谁！快闪！”克鲁克的眼睛跟着他，当他打电话时，他找到机会偷到旧的波特曼托，然后又偷回来。

‘Run, Flite, run! The nearest doctor! Run!’ So Mr. Krook addresses a crazy little woman who is his female lodger, who appears and vanishes in a breath, who soon returns accompanied by a testy medical man brought from his dinner, with a broad, snuffy upper lip and a broad Scotch tongue.
‘快跑，弗利特，快跑！最近的医生！快跑！”于是克鲁克先生对一个疯狂的小女人说话，她是他的女房客，她在一次呼吸中出现和消失，很快她就回来了，身边带着一个从他的晚餐中带来的暴躁的医生，他的上唇宽阔，鼻塞，宽阔的嘴唇。苏格兰舌头。

‘Ey! Bless the hearts o’ ye,’ says the medical man, looking up at them after a moment’s examination. ‘He’s just as dead as Phairy!’
‘哎呀！保佑你们的心。”医生检查了一会儿后抬头看着他们说道。 “他和菲尔里一样死了！”

Mr. Tulkinghorn (standing by the old portmanteau) inquires if he has been dead any time.
图金霍恩先生（站在旧的组合词旁边）询问他是否死过。

‘Any time, sir?’ says the medical gentleman. ‘It’s probable he wull have been dead aboot three hours.’
“什么时候可以，先生？”医生先生说。 “三个小时后他很可能就死了。”

‘About that time, I should say,’ observes a dark young man on the other side of the bed.
“我应该说大概就是那个时候，”床的另一边一个皮肤黝黑的年轻人说道。

‘Air you in the maydickle prayfession yourself, sir?’ inquires the first.
“先生，您自己也在祈祷吗？”第一个问道。

The dark young man says yes.
黑皮肤的年轻人说是的。

‘Then I’ll just tak’ my depairture,’ replies the other, ‘for I’m nae gude here!’ With which remark he finishes his brief attendance and returns to finish his dinner.
“那我就告辞了，”另一个人回答道，“因为我在这里很不懂！”说完这句话，他结束了短暂的出席，然后回来吃晚饭。

The dark young surgeon passes the candle across and across the face and carefully examines the law-writer, who has established his pretensions to his name by becoming indeed No one.
皮肤黝黑的年轻外科医生用蜡烛在脸上扫过一遍又一遍，仔细检查了这位法律作家，他已经通过成为真正的无名之辈而确立了自己的名誉。

‘I knew this person by sight very well,’ says he. ‘He has purchased opium of me for the last year and a half. Was anybody present related to him?’ glancing round upon the three bystanders.
“我一眼就认出了这个人，”他说。 “他在过去的一年半里给我买了鸦片。 “在场的人有和他有关系吗？”环顾三名围观者。

‘I was his landlord,’ grimly answers Krook, taking the candle from the surgeon’s outstretched hand. ‘He told me once I was the nearest relation he had.’
“我是他的房东，”克鲁克冷酷地回答，从外科医生伸出的手中接过蜡烛。 “有一次他告诉我，我是他最亲近的亲戚。”

‘He has died,’ says the surgeon, ‘of an over-dose of opium, there is no doubt. The room is strongly flavoured with it. There is enough here now,’ taking an old teapot from Mr. Krook, ‘to kill a dozen people.’
“他已经死了，”外科医生说，“毫无疑问，他是因为吸食过量鸦片而死的。”房间里有很浓的味道。 “现在这里的东西已经足够杀死十几个人了，”从克鲁克先生手中接过一个旧茶壶。

‘Do you think he did it on purpose?’ asks Krook.
“你认为他是故意的吗？”克鲁克问道。

‘Took the over-dose?’
“服药过量了吗？”

‘Yes!’ Krook almost smacks his lips with the unction of a horrible interest.
“是的！”克鲁克几乎咂嘴，脸上带着一种可怕的兴趣。

‘I can’t say. I should think it unlikely, as he has been in the habit of taking so much. But nobody can tell. He was very poor, I suppose?’
” “我不能说。我认为这不太可能，因为他已经习惯了吃这么多。但没有人能说清楚。我想他很穷吧？

‘I suppose he was. His room—don’t look rich,’ says Krook, who might have changed eyes with his cat, as he casts his sharp glance around. ‘But I have never been in it since he had it, and he was too close to name his circumstances to me.’
“我想他是的。他的房间——看起来并不富裕，”克鲁克说道，他锐利地扫视四周，可能会和他的猫换了个眼神。 “但自从他患上这种病以来，我从未参与过这种情况，而且他与我关系太密切，无法向我说出他的情况。”

‘Did he owe you any rent?’
“他欠你房租吗？”

‘Six weeks.’
'六个星期。'

‘He will never pay it!’ says the young man, resuming his examination. ‘It is beyond a doubt that he is indeed as dead as Pharaoh; and to judge from his appearance and condition, I should think it a happy release. Yet he must have been a good figure when a youth, and I dare say, good-looking.’ He says this, not unfeelingly, while sitting on the bedstead’s edge with his face towards that other face and his hand upon the region of the heart. ‘I recollect once thinking there was something in his manner, uncouth as it was, that denoted a fall in life. Was that so?’ he continues, looking round.
“他永远不会付钱！”年轻人说道，继续检查。 ‘毫无疑问，他确实和法老一样死了；从他的外表和状态来看，我应该认为这是一次愉快的释放。但他年轻时的身材一定很好，我敢说，长得也很帅。”他坐在床架边上，脸朝向另一张脸，手放在床边的区域，毫不无情地说道。心。 “我记得有一次，他的举止虽然粗俗，但他的态度却表明了人生的堕落。是这样吗？”他环顾四周继续说道。

Krook replies, ‘You might as well ask me to describe the ladies whose heads of hair I have got in sacks downstairs. Than that he was my lodger for a year and a half and lived—or didn’t live—by law-writing, I know no more of him.’
克鲁克回答说：“你不妨让我描述一下我在楼下的麻袋里装着她们头发的女士们。”除此之外，他在我的房客里住了一年半，靠写法律生活——或者不生活——，我对他就不再了解了。

During this dialogue Mr. Tulkinghorn has stood aloof by the old portmanteau, with his hands behind him, equally removed, to all appearance, from all three kinds of interest exhibited near the bed—from the young surgeon’s professional interest in death, noticeable as being quite apart from his remarks on the deceased as an individual; from the old man’s unction; and the little crazy woman’s awe. His imperturbable face has been as inexpressive as his rusty clothes. One could not even say he has been thinking all this while. He has shown neither patience nor impatience, nor attention nor abstraction. He has shown nothing but his shell. As easily might the tone of a delicate musical instrument be inferred from its case, as the tone of Mr. Tulkinghorn from his case.
在这次对话中，图尔金霍恩先生一直站在那只古老的混合词旁，双手放在身后，从表面上看，他同样远离床边表现出的所有三种兴趣——来自年轻外科医生对死亡的职业兴趣，引人注目的是，更不用说他对死者个人的评论；来自老人的涂油；还有小疯女人的敬畏。他那张平静的脸就像他生锈的衣服一样毫无表情。甚至不能说他一直在思考。他既没有表现出耐心，也没有表现出不耐烦，既没有表现出专注，也没有表现出心不在焉。他只露出了他的外壳。从琴盒中可以轻松推断出精致乐器的音调，就像从琴盒中推断出图尔金霍恩先生的音调一样。

He now interposes, addressing the young surgeon in his unmoved, professional way.
现在他插话了，以一种不为所动、专业的方式对这位年轻的外科医生说话。

‘I looked in here,’ he observes, ‘just before you, with the intention of giving this deceased man, whom I never saw alive, some employment at his trade of copying. I had heard of him from my stationer—Snagsby of Cook’s Court. Since no one here knows anything about him, it might be as well to send for Snagsby. Ah!’ to the little crazy woman, who has often seen him in court, and whom he has often seen, and who proposes, in frightened dumb-show, to go for the law-stationer. ‘Suppose you do!’
“我在这里看了看，”他说，“就在你面前，目的是让这个已故的人（我从未见过他活着）在他的复印行业中找到一些工作。我从我的文具店——库克宫的斯纳格斯比那里听说过他。既然这里没有人对他一无所知，最好还是派人去找斯纳斯比。啊！”对那个疯狂的小女人说，她经常在法庭上见到他，他也经常见到她，她在惊恐的哑表演中提议去找法律文员。 “假设你这样做了！”

While she is gone, the surgeon abandons his hopeless investigation and covers its subject with the patchwork counterpane. Mr. Krook and he interchange a word or two. Mr. Tulkinghorn says nothing, but stands, ever, near the old portmanteau.
当她离开时，外科医生放弃了他无望的调查，并用拼凑而成的床单遮盖了调查对象。克鲁克先生和他交换了一两句话。图金霍恩先生一言不发，但始终站在那只古老的波特曼托附近。

Mr. Snagsby arrives hastily in his grey coat and his black sleeves. ‘Dear me, dear me,’ he says; ‘and it has come to this, has it! Bless my soul!’
斯纳斯比先生穿着灰色外套和黑色袖子匆匆赶来。 “天哪，天哪，”他说； ‘事情已经到了这个地步，是吗！保佑我的灵魂！

‘Can you give the person of the house any information about this unfortunate creature, Snagsby?’ inquires Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘He was in arrears with his rent, it seems. And he must be buried, you know.’
“你能给房子里的人提供有关斯纳斯比这个不幸生物的任何信息吗？”图金霍恩先生问道。 “他似乎拖欠了房租。你知道，他必须被埋葬。

‘Well, sir,’ says Mr. Snagsby, coughing his apologetic cough behind his hand, ‘I really don’t know what advice I could offer, except sending for the beadle.’
“好吧，先生，”斯纳斯比先生用手捂着歉意的咳嗽声说道，“我真的不知道我能提供什么建议，除了派人去请执事。”

‘I don’t speak of advice,’ returns Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘I could advise—‘
“我说的不是建议，”图金霍恩先生回答道。 “我可以建议——”

‘No one better, sir, I am sure,’ says Mr. Snagsby, with his deferential cough.
“我确信，没有人比他更好，”斯纳斯比先生恭敬地咳嗽着说道。

‘I speak of affording some clue to his connexions, or to where he came from, or to anything concerning him.’
“我说的是提供一些线索来了解他的关系，或者他来自哪里，或者任何与他有关的事情。”

‘I assure you, sir,’ says Mr. Snagsby after prefacing his reply with his cough of general propitiation, ‘that I no more know where he came from than I know—‘
“我向您保证，先生，”斯纳斯比先生在用他普遍安抚的咳嗽声作为答复后说道，“我不知道他来自哪里，就像我不知道——”

‘Where he has gone to, perhaps,’ suggests the surgeon to help him out.
“也许他去了哪里，”外科医生建议帮助他。

A pause. Mr. Tulkinghorn looking at the law-stationer. Mr. Krook, with his mouth open, looking for somebody to speak next.
停顿一下。图金霍恩先生看着法律文具。克鲁克先生张着嘴，寻找下一个发言者。

‘As to his connexions, sir,’ says Mr. Snagsby, ‘if a person was to say to me, ‘Snagsby, here’s twenty thousand pound down, ready for you in the Bank of England if you’ll only name one of ‘em,’ I couldn’t do it, sir! About a year and a half ago—to the best of my belief, at the time when he first came to lodge at the present rag and bottle shop—‘
“至于他的关系，先生，”斯纳格斯比先生说，“如果有人对我说，‘斯纳格斯比，英格兰银行已经为你准备好了两万英镑，只要你只说出其中之一’他们，'我做不到，先生！大约一年半前——据我所知，当时他第一次来到现在的破布和瓶子店住宿——”

‘That was the time!’ says Krook with a nod.
“就是时候了！”克鲁克点点头说道。

‘About a year and a half ago,’ says Mr. Snagsby, strengthened, ‘he came into our place one morning after breakfast, and finding my little woman (which I name Mrs. Snagsby when I use that appellation) in our shop, produced a specimen of his handwriting and gave her to understand that he was in want of copying work to do and was, not to put too fine a point upon it,’ a favourite apology for plain speaking with Mr. Snagsby, which he always offers with a sort of argumentative frankness, ‘hard up! My little woman is not in general partial to strangers, particular—not to put too fine a point upon it—when they want anything. But she was rather took by something about this person, whether by his being unshaved, or by his hair being in want of attention, or by what other ladies’ reasons, I leave you to judge; and she accepted of the specimen, and likewise of the address. My little woman hasn’t a good ear for names,’ proceeds Mr. Snagsby after consulting his cough of consideration behind his hand, ‘and she considered Nemo equally the same as Nimrod. In consequence of which, she got into a habit of saying to me at meals, ‘Mr. Snagsby, you haven’t found Nimrod any work yet!’ or ‘Mr. Snagsby, why didn’t you give that eight and thirty Chancery folio in Jarndyce to Nimrod?’ or such like. And that is the way he gradually fell into job-work at our place; and that is the most I know of him except that he was a quick hand, and a hand not sparing of night-work, and that if you gave him out, say, five and forty folio on the Wednesday night, you would have it brought in on the Thursday morning. All of which—‘ Mr. Snagsby concludes by politely motioning with his hat towards the bed, as much as to add, ‘I have no doubt my honourable friend would confirm if he were in a condition to do it.’
“大约一年半前，”斯纳格斯比先生强硬地说，“一天早上，他吃完早饭来到我们这里，在我们的店里找到了我的小女人（当我使用这个称呼时，我称她为斯纳格斯比夫人），他拿出了一份他的笔迹样本，让她明白，他需要抄写作业，而且，不要过分强调这一点。”这是他与斯纳斯比先生坦白交谈时最喜欢的道歉，他总是这样做带着一种好辩的坦率，“很难！”我的小女人一般不会偏爱陌生人，尤其是当他们想要什么的时候——不要过分强调这一点。但她却被这个人身上的某些东西所吸引，无论是因为他没有刮胡子，还是因为他的头发缺乏关注，或者是因为其他女士的原因，我让你来判断；她接受了样本，也接受了地址。我的小女人对名字不太敏感，”斯纳斯比先生在询问了他手后咳嗽的声音后继续说道，“她认为尼莫和尼姆罗德一样。因此，她养成了吃饭时对我说“先生”的习惯。 Snagsby，你还没有为 Nimrod 找到任何工作！”或者“Mr.斯纳格斯比，你为什么不把贾迪斯的八本和三十本大法官对开本给尼姆罗德？”之类的。就这样，他逐渐进入了我们这里的工作岗位。这是我对他最了解的，除了他是一个勤快的人，而且不遗余力地做夜班工作，如果你在周三晚上给他，比如说，五页和四十页，你就会得到它周四早上带来的。所有这一切——”斯纳格斯比先生最后礼貌地用帽子向床边示意，并补充道，“我毫不怀疑，我尊敬的朋友会确认他是否有能力这样做。”

‘Hadn’t you better see,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn to Krook, ‘whether he had any papers that may enlighten you? There will be an inquest, and you will be asked the question. You can read?’
“你最好看看，”图尔金霍恩先生对克鲁克说，“他是否有任何文件可以启发你？将会有一次调查，你会被问到这个问题。你可以阅读？'

‘No, I can’t,’ returns the old man with a sudden grin.
“不，我不能。”老人突然咧嘴一笑，回答道。

‘Snagsby,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, ‘look over the room for him. He will get into some trouble or difficulty otherwise. Being here, I’ll wait if you make haste, and then I can testify on his behalf, if it should ever be necessary, that all was fair and right. If you will hold the candle for Mr. Snagsby, my friend, he’ll soon see whether there is anything to help you.’
“斯纳格斯比，”图尔金霍恩先生说，“到房间里找找他。”否则他会遇到一些麻烦或困难。如果你赶快的话，我会在这里等，然后我可以代表他作证，如果有必要的话，一切都是公平和正确的。如果你愿意为斯纳斯比先生，我的朋友，他很快就会看看是否有什么可以帮助你的。

‘In the first place, here’s an old portmanteau, sir,’ says Snagsby.
“首先，这是一个古老的混合词，先生，”斯纳格斯比说。

Ah, to be sure, so there is! Mr. Tulkinghorn does not appear to have seen it before, though he is standing so close to it, and though there is very little else, heaven knows.
啊，当然，是有的！图金霍恩先生以前似乎没有见过它，尽管他站得离它那么近，尽管除此之外什么也没有，但天知道。

The marine-store merchant holds the light, and the law-stationer conducts the search. The surgeon leans against the corner of the chimney-piece; Miss Flite peeps and trembles just within the door. The apt old scholar of the old school, with his dull black breeches tied with ribbons at the knees, his large black waistcoat, his longsleeved black coat, and his wisp of limp white neckerchief tied in the bow the peerage knows so well, stands in exactly the same place and attitude.
水货商人拿着灯，法律文具员负责搜查。外科医生靠在烟囱的一角上；弗利特小姐在门内偷看，浑身发抖。这位老派的老学者站在那儿，穿着暗黑马裤，膝盖处系着丝带，穿着宽大的黑色背心，长袖黑色外套，一缕柔软的白色围巾，系在贵族们熟知的蝴蝶结上。完全相同的地方和态度。

There are some worthless articles of clothing in the old portmanteau; there is a bundle of pawnbrokers’ duplicates, those turnpike tickets on the road of poverty; there is a crumpled paper, smelling of opium, on which are scrawled rough memoranda—as, took, such a day, so many grains; took, such another day, so many more— begun some time ago, as if with the intention of being regularly continued, but soon left off. There are a few dirty scraps of newspapers, all referring to coroners’ inquests; there is nothing else. They search the cupboard and the drawer of the ink-splashed table. There is not a morsel of an old letter or of any other writing in either. The young surgeon examines the dress on the lawwriter. A knife and some odd halfpence are all he finds. Mr. Snagsby’s suggestion is the practical suggestion after all, and the beadle must be called in.
旧皮包里有一些不值钱的衣服；一捆当铺的复制品，那些贫困路上的收费公路票；有一张皱巴巴的纸，散发着鸦片的味道，上面潦草地写着粗糙的备忘录——因为，在这样的日子里，有这么多的谷物；又过了一天，又发生了很多事——从前一段时间开始，似乎是打算定期继续，但很快就停止了。有一些肮脏的报纸碎片，全都提到验尸官的调查；没有别的了。他们搜查了橱柜和溅满墨水的桌子的抽屉。这两封信中都没有任何旧信或任何其他文字的痕迹。年轻的外科医生检查了律师身上的衣服。他只找到了一把刀和一些奇怪的半便士。斯纳斯比先生的建议毕竟是实用的建议，必须请教区执事进来。

So the little crazy lodger goes for the beadle, and the rest come out of the room. ‘Don’t leave the cat there!’ says the surgeon; ‘that won’t do!’ Mr. Krook therefore drives her out before him, and she goes furtively downstairs, winding her lithe tail and licking her lips.
于是，那个疯狂的小房客去找了执事，其余的人都走出了房间。 “不要把猫留在那里！”外科医生说道。 “不行！”克鲁克先生把她赶了出来，她偷偷地下楼，卷起柔软的尾巴，舔着嘴唇。

‘Good night!’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, and goes home to Allegory and meditation.
“晚安！”图金霍恩先生说道，然后回家继续寓言和冥想。

By this time the news has got into the court. Groups of its inhabitants assemble to discuss the thing, and the outposts of the army of observation (principally boys) are pushed forward to Mr. Krook’s window, which they closely invest. A policeman has already walked up to the room, and walked down again to the door, where he stands like a tower, only condescending to see the boys at his base occasionally; but whenever he does see them, they quail and fall back. Mrs. Perkins, who has not been for some weeks on speaking terms with Mrs. Piper in consequence for an unpleasantness originating in young Perkins’ having ‘fetched’ young Piper ‘a crack,’ renews her friendly intercourse on this auspicious occasion. The potboy at the corner, who is a privileged amateur, as possessing official knowledge of life and having to deal with drunken men occasionally, exchanges confidential communications with the policeman and has the appearance of an impregnable youth, unassailable by truncheons and unconfinable in station-houses. People talk across the court out of window, and bare-headed scouts come hurrying in from Chancery Lane to know what’s the matter. The general feeling seems to be that it’s a blessing Mr. Krook warn’t made away with first, mingled with a little natural disappointment that he was not. In the midst of this sensation, the beadle arrives.
此时消息已传至法庭。居民们聚集在一起讨论此事，观察大军（主要是男孩）的前哨被推到克鲁克先生的窗户前，他们密切关注着窗户。一名警察已经走到了房间，又走到了门口，他像一座塔一样站在那里，只是偶尔居高临下地看看基地里的男孩们；但每当他看到它们时，它们就会畏缩并后退。帕金斯夫人已经好几个星期没有和派珀夫人说过话了，因为年轻的帕金斯“逗弄”了年轻的派珀“一棒子”，引起了不愉快，但在这个吉祥的时刻，她又恢复了友好的交往。街角的杂工是一位享有特权的业余爱好者，拥有官方的生活知识，偶尔还要与醉酒的人打交道，他与警察进行秘密通信，看起来像一个坚不可摧的年轻人，不受警棍的攻击，也不受拘禁——房屋。人们在球场对面的窗外议论纷纷，光着头的侦察兵从大法官巷匆匆赶来，想知道发生了什么事。人们普遍的感觉似乎是，这是克鲁克先生没有首先放弃的祝福，同时也夹杂着一丝自然的失望，因为他没有放弃。就在这种感觉中，执事到来了。

The beadle, though generally understood in the neighbourhood to be a ridiculous institution, is not without a certain popularity for the moment, if it were only as a man who is going to see the body. The policeman considers him an imbecile civilian, a remnant of the barbarous watchmen times, but gives him admission as something that must be borne with until government shall abolish him. The sensation is heightened as the tidings spread from mouth to mouth that the beadle is on the ground and has gone in.
执事虽然在附近普遍被认为是一个可笑的机构，但目前来说，如果只是作为一个将要看到尸体的人的话，也不是没有一定的受欢迎程度。警察认为他是一个愚蠢的平民，是野蛮看守时代的残余，但他承认他是必须忍受的，直到政府废除他。当执事倒在地上并进去了的消息从一个又一个口中传开时，这种感觉更加强烈。

By and by the beadle comes out, once more intensifying the sensation, which has rather languished in the interval. He is understood to be in want of witnesses for the inquest to-morrow who can tell the coroner and jury anything whatever respecting the deceased. Is immediately referred to innumerable people who can tell nothing whatever. Is made more imbecile by being constantly informed that Mrs. Green’s son ‘was a law-writer his-self and knowed him better than anybody,’ which son of Mrs. Green’s appears, on inquiry, to be at the present time aboard a vessel bound for China, three months out, but considered accessible by telegraph on application to the Lords of the Admiralty. Beadle goes into various shops and parlours, examining the inhabitants, always shutting the door first, and by exclusion, delay, and general idiotcy exasperating the public. Policeman seen to smile to potboy. Public loses interest and undergoes reaction. Taunts the beadle in shrill youthful voices with having boiled a boy, choruses fragments of a popular song to that effect and importing that the boy was made into soup for the workhouse. Policeman at last finds it necessary to support the law and seize a vocalist, who is released upon the flight of the rest on condition of his getting out of this then, come, and cutting it—a condition he immediately observes. So the sensation dies off for the time; and the unmoved policeman (to whom a little opium, more or less, is nothing), with his shining hat, stiff stock, inflexible great-coat, stout belt and bracelet, and all things fitting, pursues his lounging way with a heavy tread, beating the palms of his white gloves one against the other and stopping now and then at a street-corner to look casually about for anything between a lost child and a murder.
不久，执事出来了，再次加剧了在中场休息期间已经相当疲软的感觉。据了解，他需要明天审讯的证人，他们可以告诉验尸官和陪审团任何有关死者的事情。立即引来无数无话可说的人。不断被告知格林夫人的儿子“本身就是一位法律作家，并且比任何人都了解他”，这让他变得更加愚蠢，经询问，格林夫人的儿子似乎目前在一艘船上三个月后飞往中国，但经向海军大臣申请后认为可以通过电报抵达。比德尔走进各个商店和客厅，检查居民，总是先关上门，并通过排斥、拖延和普遍的白痴激怒公众。警察对锅仔微笑。公众失去兴趣并做出反应。用年轻而尖锐的声音嘲笑教区执事煮了一个男孩，并合唱了一首流行歌曲的片段来表示这个意思，并强调这个男孩被做成了济贫院的汤。警察最终发现有必要支持法律并逮捕一名歌手，当其他人逃走时，这名歌手就会被释放，条件是他必须离开这里，来，砍掉它——他立即观察到了这一情况。于是，这种感觉暂时消失了。那位无动于衷的警察（对他来说，一点鸦片或多或少算不了什么），戴着闪亮的帽子、硬挺的袜子、僵硬的大衣、粗壮的腰带和手镯，以及一切合适的东西，迈着沉重的脚步，沿着他闲逛的路走去。他戴着白手套，手掌一只一只地敲打着，时不时地在街角停下来，漫不经心地寻找着失踪的孩子和谋杀案之间的任何东西。

Under cover of the night, the feeble-minded beadle comes flitting about Chancery Lane with his summonses, in which every juror’s name is wrongly spelt, and nothing rightly spelt but the beadle’s own name, which nobody can read or wants to know. The summonses served and his witnesses forewarned, the beadle goes to Mr. Krook’s to keep a small appointment he has made with certain paupers, who, presently arriving, are conducted upstairs, where they leave the great eyes in the shutter something new to stare at, in that last shape which earthly lodgings take for No one—and for Every one.
在夜幕的掩护下，这位弱智的执事带着他的传票在法庭巷里飞来飞去，传票上每个陪审员的名字都拼写错误，除了执事自己的名字之外，没有任何拼写正确的地方，没有人能读懂或想知道。传票送达，他的证人也得到预先警告，执事前往克鲁克先生家，去履行他与某些乞丐的一个小约会，这些乞丐即将到达，被带到楼上，他们在百叶窗上留下一双大眼睛，有一些新的东西可以盯着看。 ，以地球上的住所所采取的最后一种形式，不适合任何人——也适合每个人。

And all that night the coffin stands ready by the old portmanteau; and the lonely figure on the bed, whose path in life has lain through five and forty years, lies there with no more track behind him that any one can trace than a deserted infant.
整个晚上，棺材都准备在旧的行李箱旁。床上那个孤独的身影，他的人生之路已经走过了五年、四十年，躺在那里，身后没有任何人可以追踪到的痕迹，就像一个被遗弃的婴儿一样。

Next day the court is all alive—is like a fair, as Mrs. Perkins, more than reconciled to Mrs. Piper, says in amicable conversation with that excellent woman. The coroner is to sit in the first-floor room at the Sol’s Arms, where the Harmonic Meetings take place twice a week and where the chair is filled by a gentleman of professional celebrity, faced by Little Swills, the comic vocalist, who hopes (according to the bill in the window) that his friends will rally round him and support first-rate talent. The Sol’s Arms does a brisk stroke of business all the morning. Even children so require sustaining under the general excitement that a pieman who has established himself for the occasion at the corner of the court says his brandy-balls go off like smoke. What time the beadle, hovering between the door of Mr. Krook’s establishment and the door of the Sol’s Arms, shows the curiosity in his keeping to a few discreet spirits and accepts the compliment of a glass of ale or so in return.
第二天，法庭上就热闹起来了——就像一个集市，帕金斯夫人在与那位优秀的女士友好交谈时，对派珀夫人非常满意，说道。验尸官将坐在索尔阿姆斯酒店一楼的房间里，和谐会议每周举行两次，椅子上坐着一位职业名人的绅士，面对的是喜剧歌手小斯威尔斯，他希望（根据窗口中的账单）他的朋友们会团结在他周围并支持一流的人才。索尔之臂酒店整个早上都在忙着做生意。即使是孩子们也需要在普遍的兴奋中坚持下去，以至于在球场角落里站稳脚跟的馅饼师说他的白兰地球像烟雾一样消失了。何时，执事徘徊在克鲁克先生的酒馆大门和索尔之臂酒店的大门之间，表现出他对一些谨慎的烈酒的好奇心，并接受了一杯麦芽酒左右的赞美作为回报。

At the appointed hour arrives the coroner, for whom the jurymen are waiting and who is received with a salute of skittles from the good dry skittle-ground attached to the Sol’s Arms. The coroner frequents more public-houses than any man alive. The smell of sawdust, beer, tobacco-smoke, and spirits is inseparable in his vocation from death in its most awful shapes. He is conducted by the beadle and the landlord to the Harmonic Meeting Room, where he puts his hat on the piano and takes a Windsor-chair at the head of a long table formed of several short tables put together and ornamented with glutinous rings in endless involutions, made by pots and glasses. As many of the jury as can crowd together at the table sit there. The rest get among the spittoons and pipes or lean against the piano. Over the coroner’s head is a small iron garland, the pendant handle of a bell, which rather gives the majesty of the court the appearance of going to be hanged presently.
验尸官在指定的时间到达，陪审员们正在等待他，并在索尔之臂附属的干燥九柱游戏场上用九柱游戏敬礼迎接他。验尸官光顾的酒吧比在世的任何人都多。木屑、啤酒、烟草烟雾和烈酒的气味在他的职业中与最可怕的死亡密不可分。他在执事和房东的带领下来到和谐会议室，把帽子放在钢琴上，在一张由几张短桌拼成的长桌前坐上一把温莎椅，长桌上饰有无穷无尽的糯米圆环。卷曲，由罐子和玻璃制成。尽可能多的陪审团坐在桌子旁。其余的人则躲在痰盂和烟斗中间，或者靠在钢琴上。验尸官的头上戴着一个小铁花环，是一个铃铛的吊坠把手，这让法庭的威严看起来像是即将被绞死。

Call over and swear the jury! While the ceremony is in progress, sensation is created by the entrance of a chubby little man in a large shirt-collar, with a moist eye and an inflamed nose, who modestly takes a position near the door as one of the general public, but seems familiar with the room too. A whisper circulates that this is Little Swills. It is considered not unlikely that he will get up an imitation of the coroner and make it the principal feature of the Harmonic Meeting in the evenlng.
打电话给陪审团宣誓！仪式正在进行时，一个穿着大衬衫领、眼睛湿润、鼻子发炎的胖乎乎的小个子男人走进来，引起了轰动，他作为普通公众之一，谦虚地坐在门口附近，但看来这个房间也很熟悉。有传言说这是小斯威尔斯。据认为，他不太可能模仿验尸官，并将其作为晚上和谐会议的主要内容。

‘Well, gentlemen—‘ the coroner begins.
“好吧，先生们——”验尸官开始说道。

‘Silence there, will you!’ says the beadle. Not to the coroner, though it might appear so.
“请保持安静！”执事说道。验尸官不会，尽管看起来可能是这样。

‘Well, gentlemen,’ resumes the coroner. ‘You are impanelled here to inquire into the death of a certain man. Evidence will be given before you as to the circumstances attending that death, and you will give your verdict according to the—skittles; they must be stopped, you know, beadle!—evidence, and not according to anything else. The first thing to be done is to view the body.’
“好吧，先生们，”验尸官继续说道。 “你被派来这里调查某个人的死因。将向您提供有关死亡情况的证据，您将根据以下内容做出裁决；他们必须被阻止，你知道，教区长！——证据，而不是根据其他任何东西。首先要做的就是查看尸体。

‘Make way there!’ cries the beadle.
“让路！”执事喊道。

So they go out in a loose procession, something after the manner of a straggling funeral, and make their inspection in Mr. Krook’s back second floor, from which a few of the jurymen retire pale and precipitately. The beadle is very careful that two gentlemen not very neat about the cuffs and buttons (for whose accommodation he has provided a special little table near the coroner in the Harmonic Meeting Room) should see all that is to be seen. For they are the public chroniclers of such inquiries by the line; and he is not superior to the universal human infirmity, but hopes to read in print what ‘Mooney, the active and intelligent beadle of the district,’ said and did and even aspires to see the name of Mooney as familiarly and patronizingly mentioned as the name of the hangman is, according to the latest examples.
于是他们以松散的行列出去，有点像一场散乱的葬礼，然后在克鲁克先生后面的二楼进行检查，一些陪审员脸色苍白，匆忙地从那里退了出去。执事非常小心，希望两位袖口和纽扣不太整洁的先生（他在和谐会议室的验尸官附近为他们提供了一张特殊的小桌子）应该看到所有要看到的东西。因为他们是此类询问的公开记录者；他并不比人类普遍的弱点优越，但希望能在印刷品中读到“穆尼，该地区活跃而聪明的执事”的所说和所做的事情，甚至渴望看到穆尼的名字像根据最新的例子，刽子手的名字是。

Little Swills is waiting for the coroner and jury on their return. Mr. Tulkinghorn, also. Mr. Tulkinghorn is received with distinction and seated near the coroner between that high judicial officer, a bagatelle-board, and the coal-box. The inquiry proceeds. The jury learn how the subject of their inquiry died, and learn no more about him. ‘A very eminent solicitor is in attendance, gentlemen,’ says the coroner, ‘who, I am informed, was accidentally present when discovery of the death was made, but he could only repeat the evidence you have already heard from the surgeon, the landlord, the lodger, and the law-stationer, and it is not necessary to trouble him. Is anybody in attendance who knows anything more?’
小斯威尔斯正在等待验尸官和陪审团回来。图金霍恩先生也是。图金霍恩先生受到了尊贵的接待，坐在验尸官附近，位于高级司法官员、小事委员会和煤箱之间。调查继续进行。陪审团了解到他们调查的对象是如何死亡的，但没有了解更多关于他的信息。 “先生们，有一位非常杰出的律师在场，”验尸官说，“据我所知，当发现死亡时，他偶然在场，但他只能重复你们已经从外科医生那里听到的证据。”房东、房客、律师，没必要麻烦他。在座的还有知道更多信息的人吗？

Mrs. Piper pushed forward by Mrs. Perkins. Mrs. Piper sworn.
派珀夫人被帕金斯夫人推着往前走。派珀夫人宣誓就职。

Anastasia Piper, gentlemen. Married woman. Now, Mrs. Piper, what have you got to say about this?
阿纳斯塔西娅·派珀，先生们。已婚女人。现在，派珀夫人，对此您有什么要说的吗？

Why, Mrs. Piper has a good deal to say, chiefly in parentheses and without punctuation, but not much to tell. Mrs. Piper lives in the court (which her husband is a cabinet-maker), and it has long been well beknown among the neighbours (counting from the day next but one before the half-baptizing of Alexander James Piper aged eighteen months and four days old on accounts of not being expected to live such was the sufferings gentlemen of that child in his gums) as the plaintive—so Mrs. Piper insists on calling the deceased—was reported to have sold himself. Thinks it was the plaintive’s air in which that report originatinin. See the plaintive often and considered as his air was feariocious and not to be allowed to go about some children being timid (and if doubted hoping Mrs. Perkins may be brought forard for she is here and will do credit to her husband and herself and family). Has seen the plaintive wexed and worrited by the children (for children they will ever be and you cannot expect them specially if of playful dispositions to be Methoozellers which you was not yourself). On accounts of this and his dark looks has often dreamed as she see him take a pick-axe from his pocket and split Johnny’s head (which the child knows not fear and has repeatually called after him close at his eels). Never however see the plaintive take a pick-axe or any other wepping far from it. Has seen him hurry away when run and called after as if not partial to children and never see him speak to neither child nor grown person at any time (excepting the boy that sweeps the crossing down the lane over the way round the corner which if he was here would tell you that he has been seen a-speaking to him frequent).
哎呀，派珀夫人有很多话要说，主要是在括号里，没有标点符号，但其实没什么可说的。派珀夫人住在院子里（她的丈夫是一位细木工），这在邻居中早已广为人知（从第二天开始计算，但距十八个月零四岁的亚历山大·詹姆斯·派珀接受半洗礼还有一天）。几天前，由于预计无法活下去，这就是那个孩子在牙龈中所受的痛苦），据报道，哀悼者（派珀夫人坚持这样称呼死者）已经出卖了自己。认为那份报告是由哀怨者的神态引起的。经常看到哀怨的人，认为他的神情很可怕，不允许和一些胆怯的孩子一起去（如果有疑问，希望帕金斯夫人能被带上前，因为她在这里，会给她的丈夫、她自己和家人带来荣誉） ）。见过孩子们的哀伤和忧愁（对于孩子来说，他们永远都是孩子，如果他们是顽皮的性格，你就不能指望他们是 Methoozellers，而你不是你自己）。由于这一点，加上他黝黑的外表，她经常梦见他从口袋里掏出一把镐，劈开约翰尼的头（孩子不知道恐惧，并在他靠近鳗鱼时不断地喊叫）。然而，永远不要看到哀伤者拿着镐或任何其他哭泣的东西远离它。见过他奔跑时匆匆走开，在后面呼唤，仿佛不偏爱孩子，也从未见过他在任何时候既不与孩子也不与成年人说话（除了那个在拐角处的小巷里扫过十字路口的男孩，如果他我在这里会告诉你有人看到他经常和他说话）。

Says the coroner, is that boy here? Says the beadle, no, sir, he is not here. Says the coroner, go and fetch him then. In the absence of the active and intelligent, the coroner converses with Mr. Tulkinghorn.
验尸官说，那个男孩在吗？执事说，不，先生，他不在这里。验尸官说，那就去把他叫来吧。在缺乏主动和智慧的情况下，验尸官与图金霍恩先生进行了交谈。

Oh! Here’s the boy, gentlemen!
哦！这就是那个男孩，先生们！

Here he is, very muddy, very hoarse, very ragged. Now, boy! But stop a minute. Caution. This boy must be put through a few preliminary paces.
他就在这里，浑身泥泞，声音嘶哑，衣衫褴褛。现在，孩子！但请停下来。警告。这个男孩必须经过一些初步的训练。

Name, Jo. Nothing else that he knows on. Don’t know that everybody has two names. Never heerd of sich a think. Don’t know that Jo is short for a longer name. Thinks it long enough for HIM. HE don’t find no fault with it. Spell it? No. HE can’t spell it. No father, no mother, no friends. Never been to school. What’s home? Knows a broom’s a broom, and knows it’s wicked to tell a lie. Don’t recollect who told him about the broom or about the lie, but knows both. Can’t exactly say what’ll be done to him arter he’s dead if he tells a lie to the gentlemen here, but believes it’ll be something wery bad to punish him, and serve him right—and so he’ll tell the truth.
名字，乔。除此之外，他一无所知。不知道每个人都有两个名字。从来没有听说过这样的想法。不知道 Jo 是一个较长名字的缩写。他认为这已经足够长了。他觉得这没有什么错。把它拼出来？不，他不会拼写它。没有父亲，没有母亲，没有朋友。从来没有去过学校。什么是家？知道扫帚就是扫帚，也知道说谎是邪恶的。不记得是谁告诉他有关扫帚或谎言的事情，但他都知道。不能确切地说如果他对这里的先生们撒谎，在他死后会对他做什么，但相信惩罚他会是一件非常糟糕的事情，并为他服务，所以他会告诉真相。

‘This won’t do, gentlemen!’ says the coroner with a melancholy shake of the head.
“这不行，先生们！”验尸官忧郁地摇摇头说道。

‘Don’t you think you can receive his evidence, sir?’ asks an attentive juryman.
“您不认为您可以获得他的证据吗，先生？”一位细心的陪审员问道。

‘Out of the question,’ says the coroner. ‘You have heard the boy. ‘Can’t exactly say’ won’t do, you know. We can’t take THAT in a court of justice, gentlemen. It’s terrible depravity. Put the boy aside.’
“这是不可能的，”验尸官说。 ‘你已经听到了那个男孩的声音。你知道，‘不能确切地说’是不行的。先生们，我们不能在法庭上接受这一点。这是可怕的堕落。把男孩放在一边。

Boy put aside, to the great edification of the audience, especially of Little Swills, the comic vocalist.
男孩放在一边，对观众，尤其是滑稽歌手小斯威斯的​​极大启发。

Now. Is there any other witness? No other witness.
现在。还有其他证人吗？没有其他证人。

Very well, gentlemen! Here’s a man unknown, proved to have been in the habit of taking opium in large quantities for a year and a half, found dead of too much opium. If you think you have any evidence to lead you to the conclusion that he committed suicide, you will come to that conclusion. If you think it is a case of accidental death, you will find a verdict accordingly.
很好，先生们！这是一个不知名的人，被证明有一年半大量吸食鸦片的习惯，被发现死于过量鸦片。如果你认为你有任何证据可以让你得出他自杀的结论，你就会得出这个结论。如果您认为这是一起意外死亡案件，您会找到相应的判决。

Verdict accordingly. Accidental death. No doubt. Gentlemen, you are discharged. Good afternoon.
据此作出判决。意外死亡。毫无疑问。先生们，你们已经出院了。下午好。

While the coroner buttons his great-coat, Mr. Tulkinghorn and he give private audience to the rejected witness in a corner.
当验尸官扣上大衣扣子时，图尔金霍恩先生和他在角落里私下会见被拒绝的证人。

That graceless creature only knows that the dead man (whom he recognized just now by his yellow face and black hair) was sometimes hooted and pursued about the streets. That one cold winter night when he, the boy, was shivering in a doorway near his crossing, the man turned to look at him, and came back, and having questioned him and found that he had not a friend in the world, said, ‘Neither have I. Not one!’ and gave him the price of a supper and a night’s lodging. That the man had often spoken to him since and asked him whether he slept sound at night, and how he bore cold and hunger, and whether he ever wished to die, and similar strange questions. That when the man had no money, he would say in passing, ‘I am as poor as you to-day, Jo,’ but that when he had any, he had always (as the boy most heartily believes) been glad to give him some.
这个粗鄙的生物只知道死者（他刚才通过黄脸和黑发认出了死者）有时会在街上被叫喊和追赶。那个寒冷的冬夜，当他，那个男孩，在十字路口附近的门口瑟瑟发抖时，那人转身看着他，然后回来，询问了他，发现他在世界上没有一个朋友，说： “我也没有。没有！”并给了他一顿晚餐和一晚住宿的价格。从那以后，那个人经常和他说话，问他晚上睡得好吗，他是如何忍受寒冷和饥饿的，以及他是否想死，以及类似的奇怪问题。当这个男人没有钱的时候，他会顺便说，“我今天和你一样穷，乔，”但是当他有钱的时候，他总是（正如男孩最衷心相信的那样）很乐意给予他一些。

‘He was wery good to me,’ says the boy, wiping his eyes with his wretched sleeve. ‘Wen I see him a-layin’ so stritched out just now, I wished he could have heerd me tell him so. He wos wery good to me, he wos!’
“他对我很好，”男孩一边说，一边用破烂的袖子擦着眼睛。 “当我看到他躺在床上，伸懒腰时，我希望他能听到我告诉他这一点。他对我很好，他很好！”

As he shuffles downstairs, Mr. Snagsby, lying in wait for him, puts a half-crown in his hand. ‘If you ever see me coming past your crossing with my little woman—I mean a lady—‘ says Mr. Snagsby with his finger on his nose, ‘don’t allude to it!’
当他拖着脚步下楼时，斯纳斯比先生正在等他，并把一枚半克朗放在他手里。 “如果你看到我和我的小女人（我指的是一位女士）经过你的路口，”斯纳斯比先生用手指放在鼻子上说道，“不要提及此事！”

For some little time the jurymen hang about the Sol’s Arms colloquially. In the sequel, half-a-dozen are caught up in a cloud of pipe-smoke that pervades the parlour of the Sol’s Arms; two stroll to Hampstead; and four engage to go half-price to the play at night, and top up with oysters. Little Swills is treated on several hands. Being asked what he thinks of the proceedings, characterizes them (his strength lying in a slangular direction) as ‘a rummy start.’ The landlord of the Sol’s Arms, finding Little Swills so popular, commends him highly to the jurymen and public, observing that for a song in character he don’t know his equal and that that man’s character-wardrobe would fill a cart.
有一段时间，陪审员们口语化地围绕着索尔之臂。在续集中，六人被困在弥漫在索尔之臂客厅的烟雾中。两人漫步前往汉普斯特德；四个人约定晚上半价去看戏，并加满牡蛎。 Little Swills 的几只手都受到了治疗。当被问及他对诉讼程序的看法时，他将其描述为“拉米纸牌的开始”（他的力量在于偏向）。Sol's Arms 的房东发现 Little Swills 如此受欢迎，向陪审团和公众高度赞扬了他，观察到对于一首有性格的歌曲来说，他不知道能与他匹敌的歌曲，而那个人的性格衣柜可以装满一辆车。

Thus, gradually the Sol’s Arms melts into the shadowy night and then flares out of it strong in gas. The Harmonic Meeting hour arriving, the gentleman of professional celebrity takes the chair, is faced (red-faced) by Little Swills; their friends rally round them and support first-rate talent. In the zenith of the evening, Little Swills says, ‘Gentlemen, if you’ll permit me, I’ll attempt a short description of a scene of real life that came off here to-day.’ Is much applauded and encouraged; goes out of the room as Swills; comes in as the coroner (not the least in the world like him); describes the inquest, with recreative intervals of piano-forte accompaniment, to the refrain: With his (the coroner’s) tippy tol li doll, tippy tol lo doll, tippy tol li doll, Dee!
因此，太阳之臂逐渐融入黑暗的夜晚，然后以强烈的气体从其中闪耀出来。和谐会议时间到了，职业名人的先生坐上椅子，面对着（红脸）小斯威尔斯；他们的朋友聚集在他们周围并支持一流的人才。在当晚的高潮中，小斯威尔斯说：“先生们，如果你们允许的话，我将尝试对今天在这里发生的现实生活场景进行简短的描述。”受到了热烈的掌声和鼓励；以 Swills 的身份走出房间；作为验尸官进来（世界上最不像他的人）；描述了这次调查，用钢琴强音伴奏的娱乐间隔，直到副歌：和他（验尸官）的尖尖的托尔利娃娃，尖尖的托尔洛娃娃，尖尖的托尔利娃娃，迪伊！

The jingling piano at last is silent, and the Harmonic friends rally round their pillows. Then there is rest around the lonely figure, now laid in its last earthly habitation; and it is watched by the gaunt eyes in the shutters through some quiet hours of night. If this forlorn man could have been prophetically seen lying here by the mother at whose breast he nestled, a little child, with eyes upraised to her loving face, and soft hand scarcely knowing how to close upon the neck to which it crept, what an impossibility the vision would have seemed! Oh, if in brighter days the nowextinguished fire within him ever burned for one woman who held him in her heart, where is she, while these ashes are above the ground!
叮叮当当的钢琴声终于安静下来，和声的朋友们围坐在枕头边。然后，在这个孤独的身影周围休息，现在躺在它最后的尘世栖息地；在夜晚安静的几个小时里，百叶窗里那双憔悴的眼睛注视着它。如果这个被遗弃的男人能够预言性地被母亲看到躺在这里，他依偎在母亲的怀里，一个小孩子，抬起眼睛看着她慈爱的脸，柔软的手几乎不知道如何靠近它爬到的脖子，那是多么美好的事情啊！这个愿景看起来是不可能的！哦，如果在光明的日子里，他体内现已熄灭的火焰曾为一个心中拥着他的女人燃烧，那么当这些灰烬都在地上时，她在哪里！

It is anything but a night of rest at Mr. Snagsby’s, in Cook’s Court, where Guster murders sleep by going, as Mr. Snagsby himself allows—not to put too fine a point upon it—out of one fit into twenty. The occasion of this seizure is that Guster has a tender heart and a susceptible something that possibly might have been imagination, but for Tooting and her patron saint. Be it what it may, now, it was so direfully impressed at tea-time by Mr. Snagsby’s account of the inquiry at which he had assisted that at supper-time she projected herself into the kitchen, preceded by a flying Dutch cheese, and fell into a fit of unusual duration, which she only came out of to go into another, and another, and so on through a chain of fits, with short intervals between, of which she has pathetically availed herself by consuming them in entreaties to Mrs. Snagsby not to give her warning ‘when she quite comes to,’ and also in appeals to the whole establishment to lay her down on the stones and go to bed. Hence, Mr. Snagsby, at last hearing the cock at the little dairy in Cursitor Street go into that disinterested ecstasy of his on the subject of daylight, says, drawing a long breath, though the most patient of men, ‘I thought you was dead, I am sure!’
在库克法院的斯纳格斯比先生家里，这根本不是一个休息的夜晚，古斯特在那里谋杀了睡眠，正如斯纳格斯比先生本人所允许的那样——不要说得太过分——从一到二十。这次癫痫发作的原因是古斯特有一颗温柔的心和一种敏感的东西，如果不是图廷和她的守护神，这可能只是想象。不管怎样，现在，在下午茶时间，斯纳格斯比先生对他协助调查的描述给她留下了深刻的印象，以至于在晚餐时间，她走进了厨房，前面放着一块飞舞的荷兰奶酪，然后她陷入了一段不寻常的持续时间的痉挛，她只是从这次痉挛中恢复过来，然后又陷入另一次，又一次，通过一连串的发作，之间的间隔很短，她可悲地利用了这些发作，通过向夫人恳求来消耗它们。斯纳斯比“当她完全苏醒时”不要向她发出警告，并呼吁整个机构将她放在石头上睡觉。因此，斯纳格斯比先生，最后听到库西特街小奶牛场的公鸡进入他对日光的无私狂喜时，他长长地吸了一口气，说道，尽管他是最有耐心的人，“我以为你是死了，我确信！

What question this enthusiastic fowl supposes he settles when he strains himself to such an extent, or why he should thus crow (so men crow on various triumphant public occasions, however) about what cannot be of any moment to him, is his affair. It is enough that daylight comes, morning comes, noon comes.
这只热情的鸟儿在如此紧张的情况下会解决什么问题，或者为什么他要这样鸣叫（然而，人们在各种胜利的公共场合都会鸣叫）对他来说根本不重要的事情，都是他的事。白天到来、早晨到来、中午到来就足够了。

Then the active and intelligent, who has got into the morning papers as such, comes with his pauper company to Mr. Krook’s and bears off the body of our dear brother here departed to a hemmed-in churchyard, pestiferous and obscene, whence malignant diseases are communicated to the bodies of our dear brothers and sisters who have not departed, while our dear brothers and sisters who hang about official back-stairs—would to heaven they HAD departed!—are very complacent and agreeable. Into a beastly scrap of ground which a Turk would reject as a savage abomination and a Caffre would shudder at, they bring our dear brother here departed to receive Christian burial.
然后，那些上了早报的活跃而聪明的人，带着他的穷光蛋，来到了克鲁克先生家，把我们亲爱的兄弟的尸体搬到了一个封闭的教堂墓地，那里传播着瘟疫和淫秽的疾病，由此引发了恶性疾病。我们亲爱的尚未离开的兄弟姐妹的尸体被传达到了，而我们那些在官方后楼梯上闲逛的亲爱的兄弟姐妹——但愿他们已经离开了！——却非常自满和愉快。他们把我们亲爱的去世的兄弟带到这里接受基督教的葬礼，在这片野兽般的土地上，土耳其人会认为这是野蛮可憎的，而卡弗尔人会为之颤抖。

With houses looking on, on every side, save where a reeking little tunnel of a court gives access to the iron gate—with every villainy of life in action close on death, and every poisonous element of death in action close on life—here they lower our dear brother down a foot or two, here sow him in corruption, to be raised in corruption: an avenging ghost at many a sick-bedside, a shameful testimony to future ages how civilization and barbarism walked this boastful island together.
四周都是房屋，除了法庭里一条臭气熏天的小隧道通向铁门的地方——生命中的每一个恶行都在接近死亡，死亡中的每一个有毒元素都在接近生命——在这里，他们将我们亲爱的兄弟降低一两英尺，在这里让他在腐败中播种，在腐败中长大：许多病床边的复仇鬼魂，对未来时代的可耻见证，文明与野蛮如何在这个自夸的岛屿上共同行走。

Come night, come darkness, for you cannot come too soon or stay too long by such a place as this! Come, straggling lights into the windows of the ugly houses; and you who do iniquity therein, do it at least with this dread scene shut out! Come, flame of gas, burning so sullenly above the iron gate, on which the poisoned air deposits its witch-ointment slimy to the touch! It is well that you should call to every passerby, ‘Look here!’
夜晚来了，黑暗来了，因为在这样的地方你不能来得太早，也不能停留太久！来吧，零散的灯光射入丑陋房屋的窗户；你们这些行恶的人，至少要把这可怕的一幕拒之门外！来吧，煤气的火焰，在铁门上方阴沉地燃烧着，有毒的空气在铁门上涂上了粘稠的巫膏！最好你应该对每个路人喊一声：“看这里！”

With the night comes a slouching figure through the tunnel-court to the outside of the iron gate. It holds the gate with its hands and looks in between the bars, stands looking in for a little while.
随着夜色的降临，一个无精打采的身影穿过隧道庭院来到了铁门外。它用手扶着门，向栅栏之间张望，站着看了一会儿。

It then, with an old broom it carries, softly sweeps the step and makes the archway clean. It does so very busily and trimly, looks in again a little while, and so departs.
然后，它拿着一把旧扫帚，轻轻地扫着台阶，把拱门打扫得干干净净。它做得非常忙碌和整洁，又看了一会儿，然后就离开了。

Jo, is it thou? Well, well! Though a rejected witness, who ‘can’t exactly say’ what will be done to him in greater hands than men’s, thou art not quite in outer darkness. There is something like a distant ray of light in thy muttered reason for this: ‘He wos wery good to me, he wos!’
乔，是你吗？好吧！虽然你是一个被拒绝的证人，“无法确切地说”在比人类更强大的手中将会对他做什么，但你并不完全处于外在的黑暗中。你喃喃自语的理由中仿佛有一丝遥远的光芒：“他对我太好了，他太好了！”

CHAPTER XII
第十二章


On the Watch
随时关注

It has left off raining down in Lincolnshire at last, and Chesney Wold has taken heart. Mrs. Rouncewell is full of hospitable cares, for Sir Leicester and my Lady are coming home from Paris. The fashionable intelligence has found it out and communicates the glad tidings to benighted England. It has also found out that they will entertain a brilliant and distinguished circle of the ELITE of the BEAU MONDE (the fashionable intelligence is weak in English, but a giant refreshed in French) at the ancient and hospitable family seat in Lincolnshire.
林肯郡的雨终于停了，切斯尼沃尔德也振奋起来。朗斯韦尔夫人对莱斯特爵士和夫人从巴黎回国充满了热情好客的关怀。时尚界的智慧已经发现了这一点，并向蒙昧的英国传达了好消息。据了解，他们将在林肯郡古老而热情好客的家庭所在地，招待一群才华横溢、尊贵的BEAU MONDE精英（英语很弱的时尚智力，但法语的巨人）。

For the greater honour of the brilliant and distinguished circle, and of Chesney Wold into the bargain, the broken arch of the bridge in the park is mended; and the water, now retired within its proper limits and again spanned gracefully, makes a figure in the prospect from the house. The clear, cold sunshine glances into the brittle woods and approvingly beholds the sharp wind scattering the leaves and drying the moss. It glides over the park after the moving shadows of the clouds, and chases them, and never catches them, all day. It looks in at the windows and touches the ancestral portraits with bars and patches of brightness never contemplated by the painters. Athwart the picture of my Lady, over the great chimneypiece, it throws a broad bend-sinister of light that strikes down crookedly into the hearth and seems to rend it.
为了给辉煌而杰出的圈子和切斯尼沃尔德带来更大的荣誉，公园里桥上破损的拱门被修复了；水现在退到了适当的范围内，再次优雅地跨越，在房子的前景中形成了一个人物。清澈、寒冷的阳光照进脆弱的树林，满意地看着狂风吹散树叶、吹干苔藓。它跟随移动的云影在公园上空滑行，整天追逐它们，却从未追上它们。它向窗外望去，触碰祖先的肖像，带有画家从未想到过的条状和斑块的亮度。穿过我夫人的画像，在巨大的烟囱上方，它投射出一道宽阔的、弯曲的、险恶的光线，弯曲地射入壁炉，似乎要把它撕裂。

Through the same cold sunshine and the same sharp wind, my Lady and Sir Leicester, in their travelling chariot (my Lady’s woman and Sir Leicester’s man affectionate in the rumble), start for home. With a considerable amount of jingling and whip-cracking, and many plunging demonstrations on the part of two bare-backed horses and two centaurs with glazed hats, jack-boots, and flowing manes and tails, they rattle out of the yard of the Hotel Bristol in the Place Vendome and canter between the sun-and-shadow-chequered colonnade of the Rue de Rivoli and the garden of the ill-fated palace of a headless king and queen, off by the Place of Concord, and the Elysian Fields, and the Gate of the Star, out of Paris.
穿过同样寒冷的阳光和同样凛冽的风，莱斯特夫人和莱斯特爵士乘坐他们的旅行战车（夫人的女人和莱斯特爵士的男人在隆隆声中深情地）出发回家。伴随着相当多的叮当声和鞭子劈啪声，以及两匹光背的马和两只戴着玻璃帽、穿着长筒靴、鬃毛和尾巴飘逸的半人马的多次猛冲表演，他们嘎嘎地走出酒店的院子。布里斯托尔旺多姆广场，在里沃利街日光与阴影格子柱廊之间慢跑，在无头国王和王后不幸的宫殿花园之间慢跑，旁边就是康科德广场和极乐世界，以及巴黎郊外的星之门。

Sooth to say, they cannot go away too fast, for even here my Lady Dedlock has been bored to death. Concert, assembly, opera, theatre, drive, nothing is new to my Lady under the worn-out heavens. Only last Sunday, when poor wretches were gay—within the walls playing with children among the clipped trees and the statues in the Palace Garden; walking, a score abreast, in the Elysian Fields, made more Elysian by performing dogs and wooden horses; between whiles filtering (a few) through the gloomy Cathedral of Our Lady to say a word or two at the base of a pillar within flare of a rusty little gridiron-full of gusty little tapers; without the walls encompassing Paris with dancing, love-making, wine-drinking, tobacco-smoking, tomb-visiting, billiard card and domino playing, quack-doctoring, and much murderous refuse, animate and inanimate—only last Sunday, my Lady, in the desolation of Boredom and the clutch of Giant Despair, almost hated her own maid for being in spirits.
可以肯定地说，他们不能走得太快，因为即使在这里，我的戴德洛克夫人也已经无聊得要死了。音乐会、集会、歌剧、戏剧、驾车，在破旧的天空下，对我的女士来说，没有什么新鲜事。就在上周日，可怜的可怜虫们还在快乐地玩耍——在墙内和孩子们在宫殿花园里被砍伐的树木和雕像之间玩耍；在极乐世界中，二十人并排行走，通过狗和木马的表演，使之变得更加极乐世界；有时候，（少数）会穿过阴暗的圣母大教堂，在生锈的小烤架的灯柱底部说一两句话，烤架上充满了阵风般的小锥体；没有包围巴黎的城墙，人们跳舞、做爱、喝酒、抽烟、参观坟墓、打台球、玩多米诺骨牌、江湖医生，以及许多凶残的拒绝，有生命的和无生命的——就在上周日，我的女士，在无聊的荒凉和绝望巨人的掌控下，几乎恨自己的侍女兴高采烈。

She cannot, therefore, go too fast from Paris. Weariness of soul lies before her, as it lies behind—her Ariel has put a girdle of it round the whole earth, and it cannot be unclasped—but the imperfect remedy is always to fly from the last place where it has been experienced. Fling Paris back into the distance, then, exchanging it for endless avenues and cross-avenues of wintry trees! And, when next beheld, let it be some leagues away, with the Gate of the Star a white speck glittering in the sun, and the city a mere mound in a plain—two dark square towers rising out of it, and light and shadow descending on it aslant, like the angels in Jacob’s dream!
因此，她不能离开巴黎太快。灵魂的疲倦既存在于她的面前，也存在于她的背后——她的爱丽儿用它的腰带将整个地球包裹起来，无法解开——但不完美的补救办法总是从最后经历过这种疲倦的地方飞走。那么，将巴黎抛回远方，换取无尽的大道和冬季树木的交叉大道！当下次看到时，让它在几里远之外，星之门是一个在阳光下闪闪发光的白色斑点，而这座城市只是平原上的一个土丘——两座黑色的方形塔楼从中拔地而起，光与影像雅各梦中的天使一样倾斜地降临在它上面！

Sir Leicester is generally in a complacent state, and rarely bored. When he has nothing else to do, he can always contemplate his own greatness. It is a considerable advantage to a man to have so inexhaustible a subject. After reading his letters, he leans back in his corner of the carriage and generally reviews his importance to society.
莱斯特爵士通常处于一种自满的状态，很少感到无聊。当他无事可做的时候，他总能思考自己的伟大。对于一个人来说，拥有如此取之不尽用之不竭的主题是一个相当大的优势。读完信后，他靠在车厢的角落里，回顾了自己对社会的重要性。

‘You have an unusual amount of correspondence this morning?’ says my Lady after a long time. She is fatigued with reading. Has almost read a page in twenty miles.
“今天早上你的信件数量异常多？”良久之后，我的夫人说道。她读书累了。二十英里内几乎读完了一页。

‘Nothing in it, though. Nothing whatever.’
‘不过，里面什么也没有。什么都没有。

‘I saw one of Mr. Tulkinghorn’s long effusions, I think?’
“我想我看到了图金霍恩先生长时间的泄气？”

‘You see everything,’ says Sir Leicester with admiration.
“你看到了一切，”莱斯特爵士钦佩地说。

‘Ha!’ sighs my Lady. ‘He is the most tiresome of men!’
“哈！”我的女士叹了口气。 “他是最令人厌烦的男人！”

‘He sends—I really beg your pardon—he sends,’ says Sir Leicester, selecting the letter and unfolding it, ‘a message to you. Our stopping to change horses as I came to his postscript drove it out of my memory. I beg you’ll excuse me. He says—‘ Sir Leicester is so long in taking out his eye-glass and adjusting it that my Lady looks a little irritated. ‘He says ‘In the matter of the right of way—‘ I beg your pardon, that’s not the place. He says—yes! Here I have it! He says, ‘I beg my respectful compliments to my Lady, who, I hope, has benefited by the change. Will you do me the favour to mention (as it may interest her) that I have something to tell her on her return in reference to the person who copied the affidavit in the Chancery suit, which so powerfully stimulated her curiosity. I have seen him.’’
“他发送了——我真的请你原谅——他发送了，”莱斯特爵士说，选择了这封信并将其展开，“给你发了一条信息。”当我看到他的附言时，我们停下来换马，这件事从我的记忆中消失了。请您原谅。他说——“莱斯特爵士花了很长时间才取出眼镜并调整它，以至于我的夫人看起来有点恼火。 “他说‘关于通行权的问题——’请原谅，那不是地方。他说——是的！我这里有！他说：“我向我的女士致以崇高的敬意，我希望她能从这一变化中受益。”请您帮我提一下（因为这可能会让她感兴趣），我有一些事情要在她回来后告诉她，涉及抄写大法官诉讼中宣誓书的人，这极大地激发了她的好奇心。我见过他。”

My Lady, leaning forward, looks out of her window.
夫人向前倾身，看着窗外。

‘That’s the message,’ observes Sir Leicester.
“这就是信息，”莱斯特爵士评论道。

‘I should like to walk a little,’ says my Lady, still looking out of her window.
“我想散散步，”我的女士说道，她仍然看着窗外。

‘Walk?’ repeats Sir Leicester in a tone of surprise.
“步行？”莱斯特爵士惊讶地重复道。

‘I should like to walk a little,’ says my Lady with unmistakable distinctness. ‘Please to stop the carriage.’
“我想散散步，”我的女士明确地说。 “请停下马车。”

The carriage is stopped, the affectionate man alights from the rumble, opens the door, and lets down the steps, obedient to an impatient motion of my Lady’s hand. My Lady alights so quickly and walks away so quickly that Sir Leicester, for all his scrupulous politeness, is unable to assist her, and is left behind. A space of a minute or two has elapsed before he comes up with her. She smiles, looks very handsome, takes his arm, lounges with him for a quarter of a mile, is very much bored, and resumes her seat in the carriage.
马车停了下来，那位深情的男人从隆隆声中走下来，打开车门，顺着夫人不耐烦的手走下台阶。夫人下车又走得如此之快，以至于莱斯特爵士尽管彬彬有礼，却无法帮助她，而被留在了后面。过了一两分钟，他才找到她。她微笑着，看上去很英俊，挽着他的胳膊，陪他闲逛了四分之一英里，很无聊，又回到了车厢里的座位。

The rattle and clatter continue through the greater part of three days, with more or less of bell-jingling and whip-cracking, and more or less plunging of centaurs and bare-backed horses. Their courtly politeness to each other at the hotels where they tarry is the theme of general admiration. Though my Lord IS a little aged for my Lady, says Madame, the hostess of the Golden Ape, and though he might be her amiable father, one can see at a glance that they love each other. One observes my Lord with his white hair, standing, hat in hand, to help my Lady to and from the carriage. One observes my Lady, how recognisant of my Lord’s politeness, with an inclination of her gracious head and the concession of her so-genteel fingers! It is ravishing!
三天的大部分时间里，嘎嘎声和咔哒声一直持续着，或多或少有钟声和鞭子的响声，或多或少有半人马和赤背马的冲撞声。他们在下榻的酒店里彼此彬彬有礼，受到普遍钦佩。金猿女主人夫人说，虽然大人比小姐年纪大了一些，虽然他是她慈祥的父亲，但一看就知道他们是相爱的。人们看到我的白发大人站着，手里拿着帽子，帮助我的夫人上下马车。人们观察我的女士，她多么认可我的主的礼貌，她优雅的头倾斜着，她的手指如此优雅地让步！真是令人陶醉！

The sea has no appreciation of great men, but knocks them about like the small fry. It is habitually hard upon Sir Leicester, whose countenance it greenly mottles in the manner of sage-cheese and in whose aristocratic system it effects a dismal revolution. It is the Radical of Nature to him. Nevertheless, his dignity gets over it after stopping to refit, and he goes on with my Lady for Chesney Wold, lying only one night in London on the way to Lincolnshire.
大海不欣赏伟人，却像小鱼儿一样贬低他们。它习惯性地对莱斯特爵士产生了严厉的影响，它使他的面容像鼠尾草奶酪一样呈现出绿色斑点，并在他的贵族制度中引发了一场惨淡的革命。对他来说，这是自然的激进。尽管如此，在停下来改装后，他的尊严还是克服了，他继续与夫人一起前往切斯尼沃尔德，在前往林肯郡的途中在伦敦只躺了一晚。

Through the same cold sunlight, colder as the day declines, and through the same sharp wind, sharper as the separate shadows of bare trees gloom together in the woods, and as the Ghost’s Walk, touched at the western corner by a pile of fire in the sky, resigns itself to coming night, they drive into the park. The rooks, swinging in their lofty houses in the elm-tree avenue, seem to discuss the question of the occupancy of the carriage as it passes underneath, some agreeing that Sir Leicester and my Lady are come down, some arguing with malcontents who won’t admit it, now all consenting to consider the question disposed of, now all breaking out again in violent debate, incited by one obstinate and drowsy bird who will persist in putting in a last contradictory croak. Leaving them to swing and caw, the travelling chariot rolls on to the house, where fires gleam warmly through some of the windows, though not through so many as to give an inhabited expression to the darkening mass of front. But the brilliant and distinguished circle will soon do that.
穿过同样寒冷的阳光，随着白天的落下而变得更冷，穿过同样的凛冽的风，穿过树林中光秃秃的树木各自的阴影一起阴暗地变得更加尖锐，就像幽灵的步道，在西角被一堆火所触及。天空，屈服于即将到来的夜晚，他们开车进入公园。车子们在榆树大道上的高大房子里荡来荡去，似乎在讨论马车从下面经过时的占用问题，有些人同意莱斯特爵士和夫人下来了，有些人在与不满的人争论谁会赢。不可否认，现在所有人都同意考虑已解决的问题，现在所有人又在激烈的辩论中爆发，这是由一只顽固而昏昏欲睡的鸟儿煽动的，它坚持发出最后一声自相矛盾的呱呱叫。留下它们摇摆和叫喊，行进的战车滚向房子，那里的火光透过一些窗户发出温暖的光芒，尽管没有那么多，以至于给前面逐渐变暗的人群带来了一种居住的表情。但杰出而杰出的圈子很快就会做到这一点。

Mrs. Rouncewell is in attendance and receives Sir Leicester’s customary shake of the hand with a profound curtsy.
朗斯韦尔夫人出席了仪式，并按惯例与莱斯特爵士握手，并深深地行了屈膝礼。

‘How do you do, Mrs. Rouncewell? I am glad to see you.’
“你好吗，朗斯韦尔夫人？我很高兴见到你。'

‘I hope I have the honour of welcoming you in good health, Sir Leicester?’
“莱斯特爵士，希望您身体健康，有幸欢迎您？”

‘In excellent health, Mrs. Rouncewell.’
“朗斯韦尔夫人，身体健康。”

‘My Lady is looking charmingly well,’ says Mrs. Rouncewell with another curtsy.
“夫人看上去气色很好，”朗斯韦尔夫人又行了一个屈膝礼。

My Lady signifies, without profuse expenditure of words, that she is as wearily well as she can hope to be.
夫人无需多言，就表示她已经疲惫不堪，正如她所希望的那样。

But Rosa is in the distance, behind the housekeeper; and my Lady, who has not subdued the quickness of her observation, whatever else she may have conquered, asks, ‘Who is that girl?’
但罗莎在远处，在管家身后；我的夫人，她的观察力并没有减弱，无论她已经征服了其他什么，她问道：“那个女孩是谁？”

‘A young scholar of mine, my Lady. Rosa.’
“我的一位年轻学者，夫人。罗莎。”

‘Come here, Rosa!’ Lady Dedlock beckons her, with even an appearance of interest. ‘Why, do you know how pretty you are, child?’ she says, touching her shoulder with her two forefingers.
“过来，罗莎！”戴德洛克夫人向她招手，甚至显得很感兴趣。 “为什么，你知道你有多漂亮吗，孩子？”她一边说，一边用两个食指抚摸着自己的肩膀。

Rosa, very much abashed, says, ‘No, if you please, my Lady!’ and glances up, and glances down, and don’t know where to look, but looks all the prettier.
罗莎非常羞愧地说：“不，如果您愿意的话，我的女士！”她向上看了看，又低头看了一眼，不知道该看哪里，但看起来更漂亮了。

‘How old are you?’
'你今年多大？'

‘Nineteen, my Lady.’
“十九岁，夫人。”

‘Nineteen,’ repeats my Lady thoughtfully. ‘Take care they don’t spoil you by flattery.’
“十九。”夫人若有所思地重复道。 “小心他们不要用奉承的话宠坏你。”

‘Yes, my Lady.’
'好的，夫人。'

My Lady taps her dimpled cheek with the same delicate gloved fingers and goes on to the foot of the oak staircase, where Sir Leicester pauses for her as her knightly escort. A staring old Dedlock in a panel, as large as life and as dull, looks as if he didn’t know what to make of it, which was probably his general state of mind in the days of Queen Elizabeth.
夫人用同样精致的戴着手套的手指轻拍她有酒窝的脸颊，然后走到橡木楼梯的脚下，莱斯特爵士在那里停下来为她做骑士护卫。画中的老戴德洛克目光凝视，栩栩如生，但又沉闷乏味，看上去似乎不知道该怎么办，这可能是伊丽莎白女王时代他的普遍心态。

That evening, in the housekeeper’s room, Rosa can do nothing but murmur Lady Dedlock’s praises. She is so affable, so graceful, so beautiful, so elegant; has such a sweet voice and such a thrilling touch that Rosa can feel it yet! Mrs. Rouncewell confirms all this, not without personal pride, reserving only the one point of affability. Mrs. Rouncewell is not quite sure as to that. Heaven forbid that she should say a syllable in dispraise of any member of that excellent family, above all, of my Lady, whom the whole world admires; but if my Lady would only be ‘a little more free,’ not quite so cold and distant, Mrs. Rounceweil thinks she would be more affable.
那天晚上，在管家的房间里，罗莎只能低声称赞戴德洛克夫人。她是那么和蔼可亲，那么雍容华贵，那么美丽，那么优雅；如此甜美的声音和如此惊心动魄的触感，罗莎都能感受到！朗斯韦尔夫人确认了这一切，不无个人自豪感，只保留了一点和蔼可亲。朗斯韦尔夫人对此不太确定。老天爷不允许她对这个优秀家庭的任何成员说任何一个字的贬低，尤其是对全世界都钦佩的夫人。但如果我的夫人能“更自由一点”，不那么冷漠和疏远，朗斯韦尔夫人认为她会更和蔼可亲。

‘‘Tis almost a pity,’ Mrs. Rouncewell adds—only ‘almost’ because it borders on impiety to suppose that anything could be better than it is, in such an express dispensation as the Dedlock affairs—‘that my Lady has no family. If she had had a daughter now, a grown young lady, to interest her, I think she would have had the only kind of excellence she wants.’
“这几乎是一种遗憾，”朗斯韦尔夫人补充道——只是“几乎”因为在戴德洛克事件这样一个明确的安排中，认为任何事情都可以比现在更好，这近乎不敬——“我的夫人没有家人” 。如果她现在有一个女儿，一个成年的年轻女士，让她感兴趣，我想她就会拥有她想要的唯一一种卓越。

‘Might not that have made her still more proud, grandmother?’ says Watt, who has been home and come back again, he is such a good grandson.
“祖母，这难道不会让她更加自豪吗？”瓦特说，他已经回家了又回来了，他真是个好孙子。

‘More and most, my dear,’ returns the housekeeper with dignity, ‘are words it’s not my place to use—nor so much as to hear—applied to any drawback on my Lady.’
“亲爱的，”管家尊严地回答道，“大多数情况下，我不适合用这些话——也不适合听——用来形容我夫人的任何缺点。”

‘I beg your pardon, grandmother. But she is proud, is she not?’
‘请您原谅，祖母。但她很自豪，不是吗？

‘If she is, she has reason to be. The Dedlock family have always reason to be.’
如果她是，她就有理由这样做。戴德洛克家族总是有理由这样做。

‘Well,’ says Watt, ‘it’s to be hoped they line out of their prayerbooks a certain passage for the common people about pride and vainglory. Forgive me, grandmother! Only a joke!’
“好吧，”瓦特说，“希望他们在祈祷书中为普通人写下一段关于骄傲和虚荣的段落。原谅我吧，奶奶！只是个玩笑而已！

‘Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock, my dear, are not fit subjects for joking.’
“亲爱的，莱斯特爵士和德洛克夫人不适合开玩笑。”

‘Sir Leicester is no joke by any means,’ says Watt, ‘and I humbly ask his pardon. I suppose, grandmother, that even with the family and their guests down here, there is no ojection to my prolonging my stay at the Dedlock Arms for a day or two, as any other traveller might?’
“莱斯特爵士无论如何都不是开玩笑，”瓦特说，“我谦虚地请求他的原谅。我想，祖母，即使家人和他们的客人都在这里，也不会反对我在戴德洛克阿姆斯延长停留一两天，就像其他旅行者一样？

‘Surely, none in the world, child.’
“当然，世界上没有，孩子。”

‘I am glad of that,’ says Watt, ‘because I have an inexpressible desire to extend my knowledge of this beautiful neighbourhood.’
“我对此感到很高兴，”瓦特说，“因为我有一种难以言表的渴望，想要扩展我对这个美丽社区的了解。”

He happens to glance at Rosa, who looks down and is very shy indeed. But according to the old superstition, it should be Rosa’s ears that burn, and not her fresh bright cheeks, for my Lady’s maid is holding forth about her at this moment with surpassing energy.
他碰巧看了罗莎一眼，罗莎低着头，确实很害羞。但根据古老的迷信，燃烧的应该是罗莎的耳朵，而不是她新鲜明亮的脸颊，因为此时此刻，夫人的女仆正在以超乎寻常的精力谈论她。

My Lady’s maid is a Frenchwoman of two and thirty, from somewhere in the southern country about Avignon and Marseilles, a large-eyed brown woman with black hair who would be handsome but for a certain feline mouth and general uncomfortable tightness of face, rendering the jaws too eager and the skull too prominent. There is something indefinably keen and wan about her anatomy, and she has a watchful way of looking out of the corners of her eyes without turning her head which could be pleasantly dispensed with, especially when she is in an ill humour and near knives. Through all the good taste of her dress and little adornments, these objections so express themselves that she seems to go about like a very neat she-wolf imperfectly tamed. Besides being accomplished in all the knowledge appertaining to her post, she is almost an Englishwoman in her acquaintance with the language; consequently, she is in no want of words to shower upon Rosa for having attracted my Lady’s attention, and she pours them out with such grim ridicule as she sits at dinner that her companion, the affectionate man, is rather relieved when she arrives at the spoon stage of that performance.
夫人的女仆是一位两岁和三十岁的法国女人，来自南部国家阿维尼翁和马赛附近的某个地方，她是一位大眼睛、棕色头发、黑发的女人，如果不是有一张像猫一样的嘴和一张普遍不舒服的紧绷的脸，她会很英俊。下巴太急切，头骨太突出。她的身体结构中有一种难以形容的敏锐和苍白，她有一种警惕的方式，可以用眼角的余光看而不转头，这种方式可以愉快地省去，尤其是当她心情不好并且靠近刀子时。通过她高雅的衣着和小装饰品，这些反对意见如此明显地表达出来，以至于她看起来像一头非常整洁的母狼，但还没有完全驯服。除了在与她的职位相关的所有知识方面都有造诣之外，她对这门语言的熟悉程度几乎就像一位英国女性一样。因此，她不厌其烦地对罗莎说，因为她引起了夫人的注意，当她坐在晚餐时，她用如此冷酷的嘲笑倾诉了这些话，以至于当她到达餐厅时，她的同伴，那个深情的男人，感到相当松了口气。那次表演的勺子阶段。

Ha, ha, ha! She, Hortense, been in my Lady’s service since five years and always kept at the distance, and this doll, this puppet, caressed—absolutely caressed—by my Lady on the moment of her arriving at the house! Ha, ha, ha! ‘And do you know how pretty you are, child?’ ‘No, my Lady.’ You are right there! ‘And how old are you, child! And take care they do not spoil you by flattery, child!’ Oh, how droll! It is the BEST thing altogether.
哈哈哈！她，霍滕斯，已经为我夫人服务了五年，始终保持着距离，而这个娃娃，这个木偶，在她到达房子的那一刻，就被我的夫人爱抚了——绝对爱抚了！哈哈哈！ “你知道你有多漂亮吗，孩子？” “不，我的女士。” 你就在那里！ ‘孩子，你多大了！孩子，小心他们不要用阿谀奉承来宠坏你！’噢，多么滑稽啊！这是最好的事情。

In short, it is such an admirable thing that Mademoiselle Hortense can’t forget it; but at meals for days afterwards, even among her countrywomen and others attached in like capacity to the troop of visitors, relapses into silent enjoyment of the joke—an enjoyment expressed, in her own convivial manner, by an additional tightness of face, thin elongation of compressed lips, and sidewise look, which intense appreciation of humour is frequently reflected in my Lady’s mirrors when my Lady is not among them.
总之，这是一件令人钦佩的事情，让霍顿斯小姐无法忘记；但几天后吃饭时，甚至在她的乡下妇女和其他以类似身份加入到这群游客中的人中，也重新陷入了对这个笑话的沉默享受中——一种以她自己的欢乐方式表达的享受，通过额外的紧绷的脸、瘦长的拉长来表达。紧闭的嘴唇和侧视，当夫人不在镜子中时，这种对幽默的强烈欣赏经常反映在夫人的镜子中。

All the mirrors in the house are brought into action now, many of them after a long blank. They reflect handsome faces, simpering faces, youthful faces, faces of threescore and ten that will not submit to be old; the entire collection of faces that have come to pass a January week or two at Chesney Wold, and which the fashionable intelligence, a mighty hunter before the Lord, hunts with a keen scent, from their breaking cover at the Court of St. James’s to their being run down to death. The place in Lincolnshire is all alive. By day guns and voices are heard ringing in the woods, horsemen and carriages enliven the park roads, servants and hangers-on pervade the village and the Dedlock Arms. Seen by night from distant openings in the trees, the row of windows in the long drawing-room, where my Lady’s picture hangs over the great chimneypiece, is like a row of jewels set in a black frame. On Sunday the chill little church is almost warmed by so much gallant company, and the general flavour of the Dedlock dust is quenched in delicate perfumes.
房子里所有的镜子现在都开始工作了，其中许多镜子在经历了长时间的空白之后。映照着英俊的面孔、傻笑的面孔、青春的面孔、三十、十不甘老的面孔；切斯尼沃尔德一月或两周内出现过的所有面孔，时尚的智慧，上帝面前的强大猎人，用敏锐的气味进行狩猎，从他们在圣詹姆斯法院的突破掩护到他们被撞死了。林肯郡这个地方充满生机。白天，枪声和说话声在树林中响起，骑兵和马车使公园的道路变得活跃起来，仆人和食客遍布村庄和戴德洛克阿姆斯。夜晚，从远处的树洞望去，长长的客厅里的一排窗户，我夫人的照片悬挂在巨大的烟囱上方，就像镶嵌在黑色框架中的一排珠宝。周日，寒冷的小教堂几乎被这么多英勇的陪伴所温暖，戴德洛克灰尘的一般味道被精致的香水所浇灭。

The brilliant and distinguished circle comprehends within it no contracted amount of education, sense, courage, honour, beauty, and virtue. Yet there is something a little wrong about it in despite of its immense advantages. What can it be?
辉煌而杰出的圈子里不包含任何有限的教育、理智、勇气、荣誉、美丽和美德。然而，尽管它有巨大的优势，但它还是有一些问题。会是什么？

Dandyism? There is no King George the Fourth now (more the pity) to set the dandy fashion; there are no clear-starched jack-towel neckcloths, no short-waisted coats, no false calves, no stays. There are no caricatures, now, of effeminate exquisites so arrayed, swooning in opera boxes with excess of delight and being revived by other dainty creatures poking long-necked scent-bottles at their noses. There is no beau whom it takes four men at once to shake into his buckskins, or who goes to see all the executions, or who is troubled with the self-reproach of having once consumed a pea. But is there dandyism in the brilliant and distinguished circle notwithstanding, dandyism of a more mischievous sort, that has got below the surface and is doing less harmless things than jacktowelling itself and stopping its own digestion, to which no rational person need particularly object?
花花公子主义？现在已经没有乔治四世国王（更遗憾的是）来引领花花公子的时尚了；没有浆过的毛巾领巾，没有短腰外套，没有假小腿，没有撑条。现在，已经不再有这样的漫画了：女性化的精致女人如此打扮，在歌剧院包厢里欣喜若狂，被其他精致的生物把长颈香水瓶戳在鼻子上而苏醒。没有哪个美人会同时需要四个男人才能穿上鹿皮，也不会去观看所有的处决，也不会因为吃过一颗豌豆而感到自责。但是，在辉煌而杰出的圈子里是否存在花花公子主义，一种更恶作剧的花花公子主义，它已经深入到表面之下，所做的事情比衣衫褴褛和停止消化自己更无害，理性的人不需要特别反对？

Why, yes. It cannot be disguised. There ARE at Chesney Wold this January week some ladies and gentlemen of the newest fashion, who have set up a dandyism—in religion, for instance. Who in mere lackadaisical want of an emotion have agreed upon a little dandy talk about the vulgar wanting faith in things in general, meaning in the things that have been tried and found wanting, as though a low fellow should unaccountably lose faith in a bad shilling after finding it out! Who would make the vulgar very picturesque and faithful by putting back the hands upon the clock of time and cancelling a few hundred years of history.
为什么是。它是无法伪装的。今年一月的一周，在切斯尼沃尔德，一些追求最新时尚的女士们和先生们，他们建立了花花公子主义——例如在宗教方面。他们只是因为缺乏情感而同意了一些花花公子的谈论，即对一般事物的粗俗缺乏信心，意思是对那些已经尝试过并发现缺乏的东西，就好像一个卑鄙的家伙莫名其妙地对一个劣质先令失去了信心。发现之后！谁会通过将时间的指针放回到时钟上并取消几百年的历史来使庸俗变得非常生动和忠实。

There are also ladies and gentlemen of another fashion, not so new, but very elegant, who have agreed to put a smooth glaze on the world and to keep down all its realities. For whom everything must be languid and pretty. Who have found out the perpetual stoppage. Who are to rejoice at nothing and be sorry for nothing. Who are not to be disturbed by ideas. On whom even the fine arts, attending in powder and walking backward like the Lord Chamberlain, must array themselves in the milliners’ and tailors’ patterns of past generations and be particularly careful not to be in earnest or to receive any impress from the moving age.
还有另一种时尚的女士们和先生们，虽然不那么新颖，但非常优雅，他们同意给世界抹上一层光滑的光泽，并掩盖它的所有现实。对于他们来说，一切都必须是慵懒而美丽的。谁发现了永久停止。谁不应该为任何事感到高兴，也不为任何事感到遗憾。谁不应该被思想所困扰。在他们看来，即使是像张伯伦勋爵那样粉身碎骨、倒着走的美术，也必须按照过去几代女帽匠和裁缝师的模式来排列自己，并且要特别小心，不要太认真，也不要受到移动时代的任何影响。 。

Then there is my Lord Boodle, of considerable reputation with his party, who has known what office is and who tells Sir Leicester Dedlock with much gravity, after dinner, that he really does not see to what the present age is tending. A debate is not what a debate used to be; the House is not what the House used to be; even a Cabinet is not what it formerly was. He perceives with astonishment that supposing the present government to be overthrown, the limited choice of the Crown, in the formation of a new ministry, would lie between Lord Coodle and Sir Thomas Doodle—supposing it to be impossible for the Duke of Foodle to act with Goodle, which may be assumed to be the case in consequence of the breach arising out of that affair with Hoodle. Then, giving the Home Department and the leadership of the House of Commons to Joodle, the Exchequer to Koodle, the Colonies to Loodle, and the Foreign Office to Moodle, what are you to do with Noodle? You can’t offer him the Presidency of the Council; that is reserved for Poodle. You can’t put him in the Woods and Forests; that is hardly good enough for Quoodle. What follows? That the country is shipwrecked, lost, and gone to pieces (as is made manifest to the patriotism of Sir Leicester Dedlock) because you can’t provide for Noodle!
还有我的布德尔勋爵，他在他的政党中享有很高的声誉，他知道什么是办公室，晚饭后他非常严肃地告诉莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，他真的不明白当今时代的趋势。辩论已经不再是过去的辩论了。众议院不再是以前的众议院；甚至内阁也不再像以前那样了。他惊讶地发现，假设现任政府被推翻，国王在组建新内阁时的有限选择将介于库德尔勋爵和托马斯·杜德尔爵士之间——假设福德尔公爵不可能采取行动与古德尔的关系，这可以被认为是由于与胡德的事件而产生的违约行为的结果。那么，把内政部和下议院的领导权交给Joodle，把财政交给Koodle，把殖民地交给Loodle，把外交部交给Moodle，你要对Noodle做什么呢？你不能让他担任理事会主席；这是为贵宾犬保留的。你不能把他放在树林里；这对 Quoodle 来说还不够好。接下来是什么？这个国家遭遇海难、迷失、支离破碎（正如莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士的爱国主义所体现的那样），因为你无法提供面条！

On the other hand, the Right Honourable William Buffy, M.P., contends across the table with some one else that the shipwreck of the country—about which there is no doubt; it is only the manner of it that is in question—is attributable to Cuffy. If you had done with Cuffy what you ought to have done when he first came into Parliament, and had prevented him from going over to Duffy, you would have got him into alliance with Fuffy, you would have had with you the weight attaching as a smart debater to Guffy, you would have brought to bear upon the elections the wealth of Huffy, you would have got in for three counties Juffy, Kuffy, and Luffy, and you would have strengthened your administration by the official knowledge and the business habits of Muffy. All this, instead of being as you now are, dependent on the mere caprice of Puffy!
另一方面，议员威廉·巴菲 (William Buffy) 议员在桌子对面与其他人争论说，这个国家的海难是毫无疑问的；值得讨论的只是它的方式——归因于卡菲。如果你对卡菲做了你在他第一次进入议会时应该做的事情，并阻止他转向达菲，你就会让他与菲菲结盟，你就会拥有作为一个议员的影响力。聪明的辩手加菲，你会用加菲的财富来影响选举，你会进入加菲、加菲和路菲三个县，你会通过官方知识和商业习惯来加强你的行政管理。穆菲。这一切，都不是你现在的样子，全靠Puffy的任性！

As to this point, and as to some minor topics, there are differences of opinion; but it is perfectly clear to the brilliant and distinguished circle, all round, that nobody is in question but Boodle and his retinue, and Buffy and HIS retinue. These are the great actors for whom the stage is reserved. A People there are, no doubt—a certain large number of supernumeraries, who are to be occasionally addressed, and relied upon for shouts and choruses, as on the theatrical stage; but Boodle and Buffy, their followers and families, their heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, are the born first-actors, managers, and leaders, and no others can appear upon the scene for ever and ever.
对于这一点，以及对于一些次要的话题，存在着不同的意见。但对于所有才华横溢、杰出的圈子来说，除了布德尔和他的随从、巴菲和他的随从之外，没有人有问题。这些都是为他们保留舞台的伟大演员。毫无疑问，那里有一群人——有一定数量的多余人员，他们偶尔会被提及，并依靠他们来喊叫和合唱，就像在戏剧舞台上一样；但布德尔和巴菲，他们的追随者和家人，他们的继承人、执行人、管理者和受让人，是天生的第一演员、管理者和领导者，没有其他人可以永远出现在舞台上。

In this, too, there is perhaps more dandyism at Chesney Wold than the brilliant and distinguished circle will find good for itself in the long run. For it is, even with the stillest and politest circles, as with the circle the necromancer draws around him—very strange appearances may be seen in active motion outside. With this difference, that being realities and not phantoms, there is the greater danger of their breaking in.
从长远来看，切斯尼沃尔德的花花公子主义可能也比这个才华横溢、杰出的圈子发现的对自己有利的多。因为，即使是最安静和最礼貌的圆圈，就像死灵法师在他周围画的圆圈一样，在外面活跃的运动中也可能会看到非常奇怪的外观。由于这种差异是现实而不是幻影，因此它们闯入的危险更大。

Chesney Wold is quite full anyhow, so full that a burning sense of injury arises in the breasts of ill-lodged ladies’-maids, and is not to he extinguished. Only one room is empty. It is a turret chamber of the third order of merit, plainly but comfortably furnished and having an old-fashioned business air. It is Mr. Tulkinghorn’s room, and is never bestowed on anybody else, for he may come at any time. He is not come yet. It is his quiet habit to walk across the park from the village in fine weather, to drop into this room as if he had never been out of it since he was last seen there, to request a servant to inform Sir Leicester that he is arrived in case he should be wanted, and to appear ten minutes before dinner in the shadow of the library-door. He sleeps in his turret with a complaining flagstaff over his head, and has some leads outside on which, any fine morning when he is down here, his black figure may be seen walking before breakfast like a larger species of rook.
无论如何，切斯尼·沃尔德已经很饱了，饱到让那些住得不好的女仆们的胸中升起一种灼烧般的受伤感，而且还没有消失。只有一间房间是空的。这是一座三级炮塔室，陈设朴素但舒适，有一种老式的商务气息。这是图尔金霍恩先生的房间，从来没有赠予任何人，因为他随时都可能来。他还没来。他安静的习惯是，天气晴朗时，从村子穿过公园，走进这个房间，就好像自从上次有人看到他以来，他从未离开过这个房间，请仆人通知莱​​斯特爵士他已经到达了。以防万一有人需要他，并在晚饭前十分钟出现在图书馆门的阴影里。他睡在自己的炮塔里，头顶上有一根抱怨的旗杆，外面有一些引路，任何一个晴朗的早晨，当他在这里的时候，他的黑色身影都可以在早餐前像一只更大的白嘴鸦一样行走。

Every day before dinner, my Lady looks for him in the dusk of the library, but he is not there. Every day at dinner, my Lady glances down the table for the vacant place that would be waiting to receive him if he had just arrived, but there is no vacant place. Every night my Lady casually asks her maid, ‘Is Mr. Tulkinghorn come?’
每天晚饭前，夫人都会在图书馆的黄昏中寻找他，但他不在。每天吃晚饭时，夫人都会扫视桌子，寻找如果他刚到的话，是否有空位等待接待他，但没有空位。每天晚上，夫人都会漫不经心地问她的女仆：“图金霍恩先生来了吗？”

Every night the answer is, ‘No, my Lady, not yet.’
每天晚上得到的答案都是：“不，女士，还没有。”

One night, while having her hair undressed, my Lady loses herself in deep thought after this reply until she sees her own brooding face in the opposite glass, and a pair of black eyes curiously observing her.
一天晚上，夫人一边脱着头发，一边听着这句话，陷入了沉思，直到她在对面的玻璃里看到了自己沉思的脸，一双黑眼睛好奇地观察着她。

‘Be so good as to attend,’ says my Lady then, addressing the reflection of Hortense, ‘to your business. You can contemplate your beauty at another time.’
“请务必出席，”我的夫人对着霍滕斯的倒影说道，“处理您的事务。”你可以下次再考虑一下你的美丽。”

‘Pardon! It was your Ladyship’s beauty.’
'赦免！这是夫人的美丽。

‘That,’ says my Lady, ‘you needn’t contemplate at all.’
“那，”夫人说，“你根本不用考虑。”

At length, one afternoon a little before sunset, when the bright groups of figures which have for the last hour or two enlivened the Ghost’s Walk are all dispersed and only Sir Leicester and my Lady remain upon the terrace, Mr. Tulkinghorn appears. He comes towards them at his usual methodical pace, which is never quickened, never slackened. He wears his usual expressionless mask—if it be a mask —and carries family secrets in every limb of his body and every crease of his dress. Whether his whole soul is devoted to the great or whether he yields them nothing beyond the services he sells is his personal secret. He keeps it, as he keeps the secrets of his clients; he is his own client in that matter, and will never betray himself.
最后，在日落前不久的一天下午，过去一两个小时里幽灵步道上热闹非凡的一群群明亮的人影全部散去，只剩下莱斯特爵士和夫人留在露台上，图金霍恩先生出现了。他以一贯的有条不紊的步伐向他们走来，从不加快，从不放松。他戴着平常毫无表情的面具——如果它是面具的话——他身体的每一个肢体和衣服的每一个折痕都承载着家庭的秘密。他的整个灵魂是否献身于伟人，或者除了他所出售的服务之外，他是否没有为他们带来任何好处，这是他的个人秘密。他保守它，就像他保守客户的秘密一样；在这件事上他是自己的委托人，永远不会背叛自己。

‘How do you do, Mr. Tulkinghorn?’ says Sir Leicester, giving him his hand.
“你好，图尔金霍恩先生？”莱斯特爵士向他伸出了手。

Mr. Tulkinghorn is quite well. Sir Leicester is quite well. My Lady is quite well. All highly satisfactory. The lawyer, with his hands behind him, walks at Sir Leicester’s side along the terrace. My Lady walks upon the other side.
图金霍恩先生身体很好。莱斯特爵士状态很好。我的夫人身体很好。一切都非常令人满意。律师背着手，沿着露台走在莱斯特爵士身边。夫人走在另一边。

‘We expected you before,’ says Sir Leicester. A gracious observation. As much as to say, ‘Mr. Tulkinghorn, we remember your existence when you are not here to remind us of it by your presence. We bestow a fragment of our minds upon you, sir, you see!’
“我们之前就预料到你了，”莱斯特爵士说道。仁慈的观察。最多可以说：‘先生。图金霍恩，当你不在的时候，我们会记住你的存在，通过你的存在来提醒我们。我们将我们思想的一部分授予您，先生，您瞧！”

Mr. Tulkinghorn, comprehending it, inclines his head and says he is much obliged.
图金霍恩先生明白了这一点，点点头表示非常感谢。

‘I should have come down sooner,’ he explains, ‘but that I have been much engaged with those matters in the several suits between yourself and Boythorn.’
“我应该早点下来，”他解释道，“但我一直在忙于处理你和博伊索恩之间的几起诉讼中的这些问题。”

‘A man of a very ill-regulated mind,’ observes Sir Leicester with severity. ‘An extremely dangerous person in any community. A man of a very low character of mind.’
莱斯特爵士严厉地评论道：“他是一个思想非常不规律的人。” “在任何社区都是极其危险的人。一个心智非常低劣的人。

‘He is obstinate,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn.
“他很固执，”图金霍恩先生说。

‘It is natural to such a man to be so,’ says Sir Leicester, looking most profoundly obstinate himself. ‘I am not at all surprised to hear it.’
“对于这样一个人来说，这样做是很自然的，”莱斯特爵士说道，他自己看起来非常固执。 “听到这个消息我一点也不惊讶。”

‘The only question is,’ pursues the lawyer, ‘whether you will give up anything.’
“唯一的问题是，”律师继续说道，“你是否会放弃任何东西。”

‘No, sir,’ replies Sir Leicester. ‘Nothing. I give up?’
“不，先生，”莱斯特爵士回答道。 '没有什么。我放弃？'

‘I don’t mean anything of importance. That, of course, I know you would not abandon. I mean any minor point.’
“我的意思不是任何重要的事情。那当然，我知道你不会放弃。我的意思是任何小问题。

‘Mr. Tulkinghorn,’ returns Sir Leicester, ‘there can be no minor point between myself and Mr. Boythorn. If I go farther, and observe that I cannot readily conceive how ANY right of mine can be a minor point, I speak not so much in reference to myself as an individual as in reference to the family position I have it in charge to maintain.’
'先生。图金霍恩，”莱斯特爵士答道，“我和博伊索恩先生之间不可能有任何小问题。如果我走得更远，我发现我无法轻易想象我的任何权利都可以成为一个小问题，那么我所说的与其说是针对我个人，不如说是针对我负责维护的家庭地位。 '

Mr. Tulkinghorn inclines his head again. ‘I have now my instructions,’ he says. ‘Mr. Boythorn will give us a good deal of trouble—‘
图金霍恩先生再次低下头。 “我现在得到了指示，”他说。 '先生。博伊索恩会给我们带来很多麻烦——”

‘It is the character of such a mind, Mr. Tulkinghorn,’ Sir Leicester interrupts him, ‘TO give trouble. An exceedingly ill-conditioned, levelling person. A person who, fifty years ago, would probably have been tried at the Old Bailey for some demagogue proceeding, and severely punished—if not,’ adds Sir Leicester after a moment’s pause, ‘if not hanged, drawn, and quartered.’
“塔尔金霍恩先生，这就是这种人的性格，”莱斯特爵士打断他的话，“制造麻烦。”一个极其病态、平庸的人。五十年前，这个人很可能会因某种煽动性的诉讼而在老贝利受审，并受到严厉的惩罚——如果不是的话，”莱斯特爵士停顿了一下后补充道，“如果不是绞死、抽打和分尸。”

Sir Leicester appears to discharge his stately breast of a burden in passing this capital sentence, as if it were the next satisfactory thing to having the sentence executed.
莱斯特爵士在宣判这一死刑时似乎卸下了他那庄严胸怀的负担，仿佛这是继执行死刑之后的下一件令人满意的事情。

‘But night is coming on,’ says he, ‘and my Lady will take cold. My dear, let us go in.’
“但是夜幕即将来临，”他说道，“我的夫人会感冒。”亲爱的，我们进去吧。

As they turn towards the hall-door, Lady Dedlock addresses Mr. Tulkinghorn for the first time.
当他们转向大厅门口时，戴德洛克夫人第一次对图金霍恩先生讲话。

‘You sent me a message respecting the person whose writing I happened to inquire about. It was like you to remember the circumstance; I had quite forgotten it. Your message reminded me of it again. I can’t imagine what association I had with a hand like that, but I surely had some.’
“你给我发了一条消息，内容是关于我碰巧询问过他的作品的那个人。就像你记得当时的情况一样；我已经完全忘记了。你的留言又让我想起了。我无法想象我和这样的手有什么联系，但我确实有一些联系。

‘You had some?’ Mr. Tulkinghorn repeats.
“你喝过一些吗？”图金霍恩先生重复道。

‘Oh, yes!’ returns my Lady carelessly. ‘I think I must have had some. And did you really take the trouble to find out the writer of that actual thing—what is it!—affidavit?’
“哦，是的！”夫人漫不经心地回答道。 “我想我一定喝过一些。你真的费尽心思去找出那个真实的东西的作者吗——它是什么！——宣誓书？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘How very odd!’
“真是太奇怪了！”

They pass into a sombre breakfast-room on the ground floor, lighted in the day by two deep windows. It is now twilight. The fire glows brightly on the panelled wall and palely on the window-glass, where, through the cold reflection of the blaze, the colder landscape shudders in the wind and a grey mist creeps along, the only traveller besides the waste of clouds.
他们走进一楼一间昏暗的早餐室，白天透过两扇深窗采光。现在已经是黄昏了。火光在镶板墙上发出明亮的光芒，在窗玻璃上发出苍白的光芒，透过火焰的冷反射，寒冷的风景在风中颤抖，灰色的薄雾爬行，除了浪费的云彩之外，唯一的旅人。

My Lady lounges in a great chair in the chimney-corner, and Sir Leicester takes another great chair opposite. The lawyer stands before the fire with his hand out at arm’s length, shading his face. He looks across his arm at my Lady.
夫人坐在烟囱角的一张大椅子上，莱斯特爵士则坐在对面的另一张大椅子上。律师站在火前，伸出一臂远的手，遮住脸。他越过手臂看着我的女士。

‘Yes,’ he says, ‘I inquired about the man, and found him. And, what is very strange, I found him—‘
“是的，”他说，“我打听过这个人，并找到了他。”而且，非常奇怪的是，我发现他——”

‘Not to be any out-of-the-way person, I am afraid!’ Lady Dedlock languidly anticipates.
“我恐怕不会成为任何偏僻的人！”戴德洛克夫人懒洋洋地期待着。

‘I found him dead.’
“我发现他死了。”

‘Oh, dear me!’ remonstrated Sir Leicester. Not so much shocked by the fact as by the fact of the fact being mentioned.
“哦，天啊！”莱斯特爵士抗议道。与其说是对这个事实感到震惊，不如说是对这个事实被提到的事实感到震惊。

‘I was directed to his lodging—a miserable, poverty-stricken place —and I found him dead.’
“我被引导到他的住所——一个悲惨、贫困的地方——但我发现他死了。”

‘You will excuse me, Mr. Tulkinghorn,’ observes Sir Leicester. ‘I think the less said—‘
“请原谅，图尔金霍恩先生，”莱斯特爵士说道。 “我认为少说——”

‘Pray, Sir Leicester, let me hear the story out’ (it is my Lady speaking). ‘It is quite a story for twilight. How very shocking! Dead?’
“莱斯特爵士，请让我听听这个故事”（说话的是我的夫人）。 “这真是一个关于暮光的故事。多么令人震惊啊！死的？'

Mr, Tulkinghorn re-asserts it by another inclination of his head. ‘Whether by his own hand—‘
图金霍恩先生再次歪着头重申了这一点。 “无论是他亲手所为——”

‘Upon my honour!’ cries Sir Leicester. ‘Really!’
“以我的名誉担保！”莱斯特爵士喊道。 '真的吗！'

‘Do let me hear the story!’ says my Lady.
“让我听听这个故事吧！”夫人说道。

‘Whatever you desire, my dear. But, I must say—‘
‘无论你想要什么，亲爱的。但是，我必须说——‘

‘No, you mustn’t say! Go on, Mr. Tulkinghorn.’
‘不，你不许说！继续吧，图金霍恩先生。

Sir Leicester’s gallantry concedes the point, though he still feels that to bring this sort of squalor among the upper classes is really—really—
莱斯特爵士的勇敢承认了这一点，尽管他仍然觉得将这种肮脏行为带到上层阶级是真的——真的——

‘I was about to say,’ resumes the lawyer with undisturbed calmness, ‘that whether he had died by his own hand or not, it was beyond my power to tell you. I should amend that phrase, however, by saying that he had unquestionably died of his own act, though whether by his own deliberate intention or by mischance can never certainly be known. The coroner’s jury found that he took the poison accidentally.’
“我正要说，”律师平静地继续说道，“无论他是不是亲手死的，我都无权告诉你。然而，我应该修改一下这句话，说他毫无疑问是死于自己的行为，尽管永远无法确定是死于他自己的故意还是意外。验尸官陪审团发现他不小心服下了毒药。

‘And what kind of man,’ my Lady asks, ‘was this deplorable creature?’
“那么，”夫人问道，“这个可悲的家伙是个什么样的人呢？”

‘Very difficult to say,’ returns the lawyer, shaking his bead. ‘He had lived so wretchedly and was so neglected, with his gipsy colour and his wild black hair and beard, that I should have considered him the commonest of the common. The surgeon had a notion that he had once been something better, both in appearance and condition.’
“很难说，”律师摇着头回答道。 “他生活得如此悲惨，如此被忽视，有着吉普赛肤色、狂野的黑发和胡须，我本应该认为他是最普通的人。”外科医生认为他曾经更好，无论是外表还是身体状况。

‘What did they call the wretched being?’
“他们怎么称呼这个可怜的人？”

‘They called him what he had called himself, but no one knew his name.’
“他们用他自己的名字来称呼他，但没有人知道他的名字。”

‘Not even any one who had attended on him?’
“连照顾他的人都没有吗？”

‘No one had attended on him. He was found dead. In fact, I found him.’
“没有人照顾他。他被发现死亡。事实上，我找到了他。

‘Without any clue to anything more?’
“没有任何线索吗？”

‘Without any; there was,’ says the lawyer meditatively, ‘an old portmanteau, but— No, there were no papers.’
‘没有任何； ”律师若有所思地说，“有一个旧的混合词，但是——不，没有文件。”

During the utterance of every word of this short dialogue, Lady Dedlock and Mr. Tulkinghorn, without any other alteration in their customary deportment, have looked very steadily at one another—as was natural, perhaps, in the discussion of so unusual a subject. Sir Leicester has looked at the fire, with the general expression of the Dedlock on the staircase. The story being told, he renews his stately protest, saying that as it is quite clear that no association in my Lady’s mind can possibly be traceable to this poor wretch (unless he was a begging-letter writer), he trusts to hear no more about a subject so far removed from my Lady’s station.
在这段简短对话的每一个字的说出过程中，戴德洛克夫人和图尔金霍恩先生的习惯举止没有任何其他改变，一直非常稳定地看着对方——这在讨论如此不寻常的话题时也许是很自然的。莱斯特爵士看着火，脸上的表情与楼梯上的戴洛克一般。故事被讲述后，他再次提出庄严的抗议，说很明显，我的夫人心中没有任何联系可以追溯到这个可怜的家伙（除非他是一个乞讨信的作者），他相信不会再听到更多了。关于一个与我夫人的立场相去甚远的话题。

‘Certainly, a collection of horrors,’ says my Lady, gathering up her mantles and furs, ‘but they interest one for the moment! Have the kindness, Mr. Tulkinghorn, to open the door for me.’
“当然，这是一系列恐怖的事情，”我的女士一边说，一边收起她的斗篷和毛皮，“但它们暂时引起了人们的兴趣！”请好心的图尔金霍恩先生为我开门。

Mr. Tulkinghorn does so with deference and holds it open while she passes out. She passes close to him, with her usual fatigued manner and insolent grace. They meet again at dinner—again, next day— again, for many days in succession. Lady Dedlock is always the same exhausted deity, surrounded by worshippers, and terribly liable to be bored to death, even while presiding at her own shrine. Mr. Tulkinghorn is always the same speechless repository of noble confidences, so oddly but of place and yet so perfectly at home. They appear to take as little note of one another as any two people enclosed within the same walls could. But whether each evermore watches and suspects the other, evermore mistrustful of some great reservation; whether each is evermore prepared at all points for the other, and never to be taken unawares; what each would give to know how much the other knows—all this is hidden, for the time, in their own hearts.
图金霍恩先生恭敬地照做了，并在她昏倒时将门打开。她从他身边走过，带着一贯的疲倦态度和傲慢的优雅。他们在晚餐时再次见面——再次，第二天——再次，连续很多天。戴德洛克夫人始终是那个精疲力尽的神，周围都是崇拜者，即使在主持自己的神​​殿时，她也很容易无聊得要死。图金霍恩先生始终是同样无言的高贵秘密宝藏，如此奇怪，但地位如此，但又如此完美。他们似乎很少注意到彼此，就像封闭在同一堵墙内的任何两个人一样。但双方是否会永远注视和怀疑对方，永远不信任对方的某些重大保留？双方是否时刻为对方做好一切准备，永远不会措手不及；为了知道对方知道多少，每个人愿意付出什么——所有这些暂时都隐藏在他们自己的心里。

CHAPTER XIII
第十三章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

We held many consultations about what Richard was to be, first without Mr. Jarndyce, as he had requested, and afterwards with him, but it was a long time before we seemed to make progress. Richard said he was ready for anything. When Mr. Jarndyce doubted whether he might not already be too old to enter the Navy, Richard said he had thought of that, and perhaps he was. When Mr. Jarndyce asked him what he thought of the Army, Richard said he had thought of that, too, and it wasn’t a bad idea. When Mr. Jarndyce advised him to try and decide within himself whether his old preference for the sea was an ordinary boyish inclination or a strong impulse, Richard answered, Well he really HAD tried very often, and he couldn’t make out.
我们就理查德的未来进行了多次协商，首先按照贾迪斯先生的要求，没有他，后来又和他一起，但过了很长一段时间我们似乎才取得进展。理查德说他已经做好了一切准备。当贾迪斯先生怀疑自己是否已经太老而不能加入海军时，理查德说他已经想到了这一点，也许他确实是这样。当贾迪斯先生问他对陆军的看法时，理查德说他也想到了这一点，这不是一个坏主意。当贾迪斯先生建议他自己尝试并决定他对大海的旧有偏好是普通的孩子气还是强烈的冲动时，理查德回答说，好吧，他确实已经尝试过很多次了，但他无法弄清楚。

‘How much of this indecision of character,’ Mr. Jarndyce said to me, ‘is chargeable on that incomprehensible heap of uncertainty and procrastination on which he has been thrown from his birth, I don’t pretend to say; but that Chancery, among its other sins, is responsible for some of it, I can plainly see. It has engendered or confirmed in him a habit of putting off—and trusting to this, that, and the other chance, without knowing what chance—and dismissing everything as unsettled, uncertain, and confused. The character of much older and steadier people may be even changed by the circumstances surrounding them. It would be too much to expect that a boy’s, in its formation, should be the subject of such influences and escape them.’
贾迪斯先生对我说，“这种优柔寡断的性格在多大程度上要归咎于他从一出生就被抛在身上的难以理解的不确定性和拖延症，我不想说；但是，他的性格中的优柔寡断在多大程度上是由于他从出生起就被抛在了身上的难以理解的不确定性和拖延症造成的”。但我可以清楚地看出，大法官办公室除了其他罪孽之外，还应对其中的一些罪责负责。它在他身上产生或证实了一种推迟的习惯——并相信这个、那个和另一个机会，而不知道什么机会——并将一切视为不稳定、不确定和混乱。年长且稳定的人的性格甚至可能会因周围的环境而改变。期望一个男孩在其成长过程中就受到这种影响并逃脱它们，那就太过分了。

I felt this to be true; though if I may venture to mention what I thought besides, I thought it much to be regretted that Richard’s education had not counteracted those influences or directed his character. He had been eight years at a public school and had learnt, I understood, to make Latin verses of several sorts in the most admirable manner. But I never heard that it had been anybody’s business to find out what his natural bent was, or where his failings lay, or to adapt any kind of knowledge to HIM. HE had been adapted to the verses and had learnt the art of making them to such perfection that if he had remained at school until he was of age, I suppose he could only have gone on making them over and over again unless he had enlarged his education by forgetting how to do it. Still, although I had no doubt that they were very beautiful, and very improving, and very sufficient for a great many purposes of life, and always remembered all through life, I did doubt whether Richard would not have profited by some one studying him a little, instead of his studying them quite so much.
我觉得这是真的；不过，如果我可以斗胆提一下我的想法的话，我觉得非常遗憾的是，理查德的教育没有抵消这些影响或指导他的性格。据我所知，他在一所公立学校读了八年，学会了以最令人钦佩的方式创作几种拉丁诗句。但我从来没有听说过任何人有责任找出他的本性倾向是什么，或者他的缺点在哪里，或者使任何类型的知识适应他。他已经适应了这些诗句，并学会了将它们创作得如此完美的艺术，如果他一直留在学校直到成年，我想他只能一遍又一遍地创作它们，除非他扩大了他的能力。忘记如何去做而进行的教育。尽管如此，尽管我毫不怀疑它们非常美丽，非常进步，并且足以满足生活的许多目的，并且终生难忘，但我确实怀疑理查德是否会从某人对他的研究中受益。很少，而不是他对它们进行了如此多的研究。

To be sure, I knew nothing of the subject and do not even now know whether the young gentlemen of classic Rome or Greece made verses to the same extent—or whether the young gentlemen of any country ever did.
可以肯定的是，我对这个主题一无所知，甚至现在也不知道古典罗马或希腊的年轻绅士是否以同样的程度创作诗歌——或者任何国家的年轻绅士是否曾经这样做过。

‘I haven’t the least idea,’ said Richard, musing, ‘what I had better be. Except that I am quite sure I don’t want to go into the Church, it’s a toss-up.’
“我根本不知道，”理查德若有所思地说，“我最好成为什么样的人。”除了我很确定我不想去教堂之外，这是一个难以抉择的问题。

‘You have no inclination in Mr. Kenge’s way?’ suggested Mr. Jarndyce.
“你不喜欢肯格先生吗？”贾迪斯先生建议道。

‘I don’t know that, sir!’ replied Richard. ‘I am fond of boating. Articled clerks go a good deal on the water. It’s a capital profession!’
“我不知道，先生！”理查德回答道。 ‘我喜欢划船。任职职员经常出差。这是一个资本职业！

‘Surgeon—‘ suggested Mr. Jarndyce.
“外科医生——”贾迪斯先生建议道。

‘That’s the thing, sir!’ cried Richard.
“就是这样，先生！”理查德叫道。

I doubt if he had ever once thought of it before.
我怀疑他以前是否想过这个问题。

‘That’s the thing, sir,’ repeated Richard with the greatest enthusiasm. ‘We have got it at last. M.R.C.S.!’
“就是这样，先生，”理查德以最大的热情重复道。 ‘我们终于得到了它。 M.R.C.S.！’

He was not to be laughed out of it, though he laughed at it heartily. He said he had chosen his profession, and the more he thought of it, the more he felt that his destiny was clear; the art of healing was the art of all others for him. Mistrusting that he only came to this conclusion because, having never had much chance of finding out for himself what he was fitted for and having never been guided to the discovery, he was taken by the newest idea and was glad to get rid of the trouble of consideration, I wondered whether the Latin verses often ended in this or whether Richard’s was a solitary case.
尽管他发自内心地笑了，但他不应该被嘲笑。他说他选择了自己的职业，越想越觉得自己的命运很明确；对他来说，治疗的艺术就是所有其他艺术的艺术。他不相信自己之所以得出这个结论，是因为他从来没有太多机会亲自发现自己适合做什么，也从未被引导到这一发现，他被最新的想法所吸引，并很高兴摆脱了麻烦考虑到这一点，我想知道拉丁诗句是否经常以此结尾，或者理查德的情况是否是一个孤立的例子。

Mr. Jarndyce took great pains to talk with him seriously and to put it to his good sense not to deceive himself in so important a matter. Richard was a little grave after these interviews, but invariably told Ada and me that it was all right, and then began to talk about something else.
贾迪斯先生煞费苦心地与他严肃地交谈，并告诉他在如此重要的事情上不要欺骗自己。理查德在这些采访之后显得有些严肃，但总是告诉艾达和我没关系，然后开始谈论其他事情。

‘By heaven!’ cried Mr. Boythorn, who interested himself strongly in the subject—though I need not say that, for he could do nothing weakly; ‘I rejoice to find a young gentleman of spirit and gallantry devoting himself to that noble profession! The more spirit there is in it, the better for mankind and the worse for those mercenary task-masters and low tricksters who delight in putting that illustrious art at a disadvantage in the world. By all that is base and despicable,’ cried Mr. Boythorn, ‘the treatment of surgeons aboard ship is such that I would submit the legs—both legs—of every member of the Admiralty Board to a compound fracture and render it a transportable offence in any qualified practitioner to set them if the system were not wholly changed in eight and forty hours!’
“天啊！”博伊索恩先生喊道，他对这个话题非常感兴趣——尽管我不必这么说，因为他什么也做不了。 “我很高兴找到一位富有精神和英勇的年轻绅士致力于这一崇高的职业！它的精神越多，对人类越好，但对那些唯利是图的工头和低级骗子来说则更糟，他们乐于让这种杰出的艺术在世界上处于不利地位。真是卑鄙卑鄙，”博伊索恩先生喊道，“船上外科医生受到的对待是这样的，我愿意让海军部委员会每一位成员的腿——双腿——复合性骨折，并将其定为可移送的罪行。如果系统在八到四十小时内没有完全改变，任何有资格的从业者都可以设置它们！

‘Wouldn’t you give them a week?’ asked Mr. Jarndyce.
“你不给他们一周的时间吗？”贾迪斯先生问道。

‘No!’ cried Mr. Boythorn firmly. ‘Not on any consideration! Eight and forty hours! As to corporations, parishes, vestry-boards, and similar gatherings of jolter-headed clods who assemble to exchange such speeches that, by heaven, they ought to be worked in quicksilver mines for the short remainder of their miserable existence, if it were only to prevent their detestable English from contaminating a language spoken in the presence of the sun—as to those fellows, who meanly take advantage of the ardour of gentlemen in the pursuit of knowledge to recompense the inestimable services of the best years of their lives, their long study, and their expensive education with pittances too small for the acceptance of clerks, I would have the necks of every one of them wrung and their skulls arranged in Surgeons’ Hall for the contemplation of the whole profession in order that its younger members might understand from actual measurement, in early life, HOW thick skulls may become!’
“不！”博伊索恩先生坚定地喊道。 ‘没有任何考虑！八、四十小时！至于企业、教区、教区委员会和类似的一群头脑混乱的笨蛋，他们聚集在一起交换这样的演讲，天啊，他们应该在水银矿里工作，度过他们悲惨的一生，如果只是这样的话为了防止他们可憎的英语污染一种在阳光下使用的语言——对于那些卑鄙地利用绅士们追求知识的热情来报答他们生命中最美好的岁月所做出的不可估量的贡献的人来说，他们的长期的学习，以及他们昂贵的教育，而对于职员的接受来说，微薄的收入太少，我会让他们每个人的脖子都拧断，他们的头骨放在外科医生大厅里，供整个行业的沉思，以便其年轻成员可以通过实际测量了解，在生命早期，头骨会变得多么厚！”

He wound up this vehement declaration by looking round upon us with a most agreeable smile and suddenly thundering, ‘Ha, ha, ha!’ over and over again, until anybody else might have been expected to be quite subdued by the exertion.
他以最令人愉快的微笑环视我们，然后突然一遍又一遍地大声喊道“哈，哈，哈！”，直到其他人可能会被他的努力所折服。

As Richard still continued to say that he was fixed in his choice after repeated periods for consideration had been recommended by Mr. Jarndyce and had expired, and he still continued to assure Ada and me in the same final manner that it was ‘all right,’ it became advisable to take Mr. Kenge into council. Mr. Kenge, therefore, came down to dinner one day, and leaned back in his chair, and turned his eye-glasses over and over, and spoke in a sonorous voice, and did exactly what I remembered to have seen him do when I was a little girl.
由于理查德仍然继续说，在贾迪斯先生推荐的多次考虑期已经到期之后，他仍然坚持自己的选择，他仍然继续以同样的最终方式向艾达和我保证，“没关系，” ’建议让肯格先生进入议会。因此，有一天，肯格先生下来吃晚饭，靠在椅子上，一遍又一遍地转动他的眼镜，用洪亮的声音说话，他的所作所为正是我记得当我看到他时所做的事情。是一个小女孩。

‘Ah!’ said Mr. Kenge. ‘Yes. Well! A very good profession, Mr. Jarndyce, a very good profession.’
“啊！”肯吉先生说。 '是的。出色地！这是一个非常好的职业，贾迪斯先生，一个非常好的职业。

‘The course of study and preparation requires to be diligently pursued,’ observed my guardian with a glance at Richard.
“学习和准备的过程需要勤奋地进行，”我的监护人看了理查德一眼说道。

‘Oh, no doubt,’ said Mr. Kenge. ‘Diligently.’
“哦，毫无疑问，”肯吉先生说。 “努力。”

‘But that being the case, more or less, with all pursuits that are worth much,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘it is not a special consideration which another choice would be likely to escape.’
贾迪斯先生说：“但情况或多或少都是如此，所有的追求都是有价值的，这并不是一个其他选择可能会逃避的特殊考虑。”

‘Truly,’ said Mr. Kenge. ‘And Mr. Richard Carstone, who has so meritoriously acquitted himself in the—shall I say the classic shades?—in which his youth had been passed, will, no doubt, apply the habits, if not the principles and practice, of versification in that tongue in which a poet was said (unless I mistake) to be born, not made, to the more eminently practical field of action on which he enters.’
“确实如此，”肯吉先生说。理查德·卡斯通先生在他的青春岁月中度过了如此出色的表现——我应该说是经典的色调吗？他无疑将运用诗歌的习惯，即使不是原则和实践。用那种语言来说，诗人（除非我弄错了）是为他所进入的更为突出的实际行动领域而生的，而不是后天形成的。

‘You may rely upon it,’ said Richard in his off-hand manner, ‘that I shall go at it and do my best.’
“你可以放心，”理查德随口说道，“我会尽力而为。”

‘Very well, Mr. Jarndyce!’ said Mr. Kenge, gently nodding his head. ‘Really, when we are assured by Mr. Richard that he means to go at it and to do his best,’ nodding feelingly and smoothly over those expressions, ‘I would submit to you that we have only to inquire into the best mode of carrying out the object of his ambition. Now, with reference to placing Mr. Richard with some sufficiently eminent practitioner. Is there any one in view at present?’
“很好，贾迪斯先生！”肯吉先生轻轻地点点头。 “真的，当理查德先生向我们保证他打算去做这件事并尽力而为时，”对这些表达深情而平稳地点点头，“我会向你提出，我们只需探究最好的模式即可。”实现他的野心目标。现在，关于将理查德先生与一些足够杰出的实践者放在一起。现在有人在视野中吗？

‘No one, Rick, I think?’ said my guardian.
“我想没有人吧，里克？”我的监护人说。

‘No one, sir,’ said Richard.
“没有人，先生，”理查德说。

‘Quite so!’ observed Mr. Kenge. ‘As to situation, now. Is there any particular feeling on that head?’
“确实如此！”肯吉先生评论道。 ‘至于现在的情况。那个头上有什么特别的感觉吗？

‘N—no,’ said Richard.
“不——不，”理查德说。

‘Quite so!’ observed Mr. Kenge again.
“确实如此！”肯吉先生再次说道。

‘I should like a little variety,’ said Richard; ‘I mean a good range of experience.’
“我想要一点变化，”理查德说。 “我的意思是丰富的经验。”

‘Very requisite, no doubt,’ returned Mr. Kenge. ‘I think this may be easily arranged, Mr. Jarndyce? We have only, in the first place, to discover a sufficiently eligible practitioner; and as soon as we make our want—and shall I add, our ability to pay a premium?— known, our only difficulty will be in the selection of one from a large number. We have only, in the second place, to observe those little formalities which are rendered necessary by our time of life and our being under the guardianship of the court. We shall soon be—shall I say, in Mr. Richard’s own light-hearted manner, ‘going at it’—to our heart’s content. It is a coincidence,’ said Mr. Kenge with a tinge of melancholy in his smile, ‘one of those coincidences which may or may not require an explanation beyond our present limited faculties, that I have a cousin in the medical profession. He might be deemed eligible by you and might be disposed to respond to this proposal. I can answer for him as little as for you, but he MIGHT!’
“毫无疑问，非常必要，”肯格先生回答道。 “我想这很容易安排，贾迪斯先生？”首先，我们只需找到一位足够合格的从业者；一旦我们知道了我们的需求——我应该补充一下，我们支付溢价的能力吗？——我们唯一的困难就是从大量的产品中选择一个。其次，我们只需遵守那些因我们的年龄和法院的监护而变得必要的小手续。我们很快就会——我应该用理查德先生自己轻松的方式说——“继续努力”——心满意足。这是一个巧合，”肯格先生微笑着说，脸上带着一丝忧郁，“其中一个巧合可能需要也可能不需要超出我们目前有限能力的解释，我有一个从事医学行业的表弟。您可能认为他有资格，并且可能愿意回应此提议。我可以像为你一样为他负责，但他可能会！

As this was an opening in the prospect, it was arranged that Mr. Kenge should see his cousin. And as Mr. Jarndyce had before proposed to take us to London for a few weeks, it was settled next day that we should make our visit at once and combine Richard’s business with it.
由于这是一个机会，因此安排肯格先生去见他的表弟。由于贾迪斯先生之前曾提议带我们去伦敦呆几个星期，所以第二天我们就决定立即前往，并将理查德的生意结合起来。

Mr. Boythorn leaving us within a week, we took up our abode at a cheerful lodging near Oxford Street over an upholsterer’s shop. London was a great wonder to us, and we were out for hours and hours at a time, seeing the sights, which appeared to be less capable of exhaustion than we were. We made the round of the principal theatres, too, with great delight, and saw all the plays that were worth seeing. I mention this because it was at the theatre that I began to be made uncomfortable again by Mr. Guppy.
博伊索恩先生一周后就离开了我们，我们在牛津街附近一家室内装潢店上方的一处令人愉快的住处安顿下来。伦敦对我们来说是一个伟大的奇迹，我们一次几个小时地出去，参观风景，似乎不像我们那么容易疲惫。我们还兴致勃勃地参观了主要剧院，所有值得一看的戏剧都看了。我之所以提到这一点，是因为在剧院里，古比先生再次让我感到不舒服。

I was sitting in front of the box one night with Ada, and Richard was in the place he liked best, behind Ada’s chair, when, happening to look down into the pit, I saw Mr. Guppy, with his hair flattened down upon his head and woe depicted in his face, looking up at me. I felt all through the performance that he never looked at the actors but constantly looked at me, and always with a carefully prepared expression of the deepest misery and the profoundest dejection.
一天晚上，我和艾达一起坐在包厢前，理查德坐在他最喜欢的地方，在艾达的椅子后面，这时，我碰巧朝坑里看去，看到孔雀鱼先生，他的头发平放在他的额头上。他的脸上描绘着头和悲伤，抬头看着我。整场演出我都感觉到，他从来不看演员，而是一直看着我，而且总是带着精心准备的表情，流露出最深的痛苦和最深的沮丧。

It quite spoiled my pleasure for that night because it was so very embarrassing and so very ridiculous. But from that time forth, we never went to the play without my seeing Mr. Guppy in the pit, always with his hair straight and flat, his shirt-collar turned down, and a general feebleness about him. If he were not there when we went in, and I began to hope he would not come and yielded myself for a little while to the interest of the scene, I was certain to encounter his languishing eyes when I least expected it and, from that time, to be quite sure that they were fixed upon me all the evening.
这完全破坏了我那天晚上的乐趣，因为这太尴尬了，也太可笑了。但从那时起，我们每次去看戏，我都会看到孔雀先生在坑里，他的头发总是笔直而平坦，衬衫领子翻着，浑身都透着虚弱。如果我们进去的时候他不在场，而我开始希望他不会来，我就会暂时沉浸在这个场景的兴趣中，我肯定会在我最意想不到的时候遇到他那双疲倦的眼睛，从那以后时间，以确保他们整个晚上都盯着我。

I really cannot express how uneasy this made me. If he would only have brushed up his hair or turned up his collar, it would have been bad enough; but to know that that absurd figure was always gazing at me, and always in that demonstrative state of despondency, put such a constraint upon me that I did not like to laugh at the play, or to cry at it, or to move, or to speak. I seemed able to do nothing naturally. As to escaping Mr. Guppy by going to the back of the box, I could not bear to do that because I knew Richard and Ada relied on having me next them and that they could never have talked together so happily if anybody else had been in my place. So there I sat, not knowing where to look—for wherever I looked, I knew Mr. Guppy’s eyes were following me—and thinking of the dreadful expense to which this young man was putting himself on my account.
我真的无法表达这让我多么不安。如果他只是把头发梳起来或者卷起衣领，那就够糟糕了；但知道那个荒谬的人物总是凝视着我，总是处于那种沮丧的状态，这给我带来了如此大的限制，以至于我不喜欢对这出戏大笑，或对它哭泣，或移动，或说话。我似乎自然而然地什么也做不了。至于跑到包厢后面来躲避顾比先生，我无法忍受这样做，因为我知道理查德和艾达依靠的是我在他们旁边，而且如果有其他人在的话，他们不可能一起如此愉快地交谈。我的地方。于是我坐在那里，不知道该往哪里看——因为无论我往哪里看，我都知道孔雀先生的眼睛在跟着我——想着这个年轻人为我付出的可怕代价。

Sometimes I thought of telling Mr. Jarndyce. Then I feared that the young man would lose his situation and that I might ruin him. Sometimes I thought of confiding in Richard, but was deterred by the possibility of his fighting Mr. Guppy and giving him black eyes. Sometimes I thought, should I frown at him or shake my head. Then I felt I could not do it. Sometimes I considered whether I should write to his mother, but that ended in my being convinced that to open a correspondence would he to make the matter worse. I always came to the conclusion, finally, that I could do nothing. Mr. Guppy’s perseverance, all this time, not only produced him regularly at any theatre to which we went, but caused him to appear in the crowd as we were coming out, and even to get up behind our fly— where I am sure I saw him, two or three times, struggling among the most dreadful spikes. After we got home, he haunted a post opposite our house. The upholsterer’s where we lodged being at the corner of two streets, and my bedroom window being opposite the post, I was afraid to go near the window when I went upstairs, lest I should see him (as I did one moonlight night) leaning against the post and evidenfly catching cold. If Mr. Guppy had not been, fortunately for me, engaged in the daytime, I really should have had no rest from him.
有时我想告诉贾迪斯先生。然后我担心这个年轻人会失去他的地位，我会毁了他。有时我想向理查德吐露心声，但又担心他可能会与孔雀先生打斗，让他的眼睛变黑。有时候我想，我是该对他皱眉还是摇头。然后我就觉得我做不到。有时我考虑是否应该写信给他的母亲，但最终我确信，打开一封信会让事情变得更糟。最后我总是得出结论：我无能为力。古比先生一直以来的坚持，不仅使他经常出现在我们去的任何剧院，而且使他在我们出来时出现在人群中，甚至在我们的苍蝇后面站起来——我确信我有两三次看到他在最可怕的尖刺中挣扎。我们回家后，他在我们家对面的一个哨所出没。我们住的装潢商住的地方在两条街的拐角处，而我卧室的窗户正对着柱子，我上楼时不敢靠近窗户，免得看到他（就像我在一个月光下的夜晚那样）靠在窗户上。帖子和明显感冒了。幸运的是，如果古比先生白天没有忙着工作，我真的就不能从他那里得到休息了。

While we were making this round of gaieties, in which Mr. Guppy so extraordinarily participated, the business which had helped to bring us to town was not neglected. Mr. Kenge’s cousin was a Mr. Bayham Badger, who had a good practice at Chelsea and attended a large public institution besides. He was quite willing to receive Richard into his house and to superintend his studies, and as it seemed that those could be pursued advantageously under Mr. Badger’s roof, and Mr. Badger liked Richard, and as Richard said he liked Mr. Badger ‘well enough,’ an agreement was made, the Lord Chancellor’s consent was obtained, and it was all settled.
当我们进行这一轮的欢乐活动时，顾比先生如此出色地参加了其中，帮助我们进城的生意也没有被忽视。肯格先生的表弟是贝汉姆獾先生，他在切尔西有过良好的训练，此外还就读于一家大型公共机构。他非常愿意接待理查德到他家来指导他的学业，而且似乎这些都可以在巴杰先生的屋檐下有利地进行，而且巴杰先生喜欢理查德，正如理查德所说，他“非常喜欢巴杰先生”。够了，”协议达成了，得到了大法官的同意，一切就都解决了。

On the day when matters were concluded between Richard and Mr. Badger, we were all under engagement to dine at Mr. Badger’s house. We were to be ‘merely a family party,’ Mrs. Badger’s note said; and we found no lady there but Mrs. Badger herself. She was surrounded in the drawing-room by various objects, indicative of her painting a little, playing the piano a little, playing the guitar a little, playing the harp a little, singing a little, working a little, reading a little, writing poetry a little, and botanizing a little. She was a lady of about fifty, I should think, youthfully dressed, and of a very fine complexion. If I add to the little list of her accomplishments that she rouged a little, I do not mean that there was any harm in it.
理查德和巴杰先生达成协议的那天，我们都约好去巴杰先生家里吃饭。巴杰尔夫人的便条上写道，我们“只是一个家庭聚会”。除了獾夫人本人之外，我们在那儿没有发现任何女士。她在客厅里被各种各样的物品包围着，表明她画了一点，弹了一点钢琴，弹了一点吉他，弹了一点竖琴，唱歌了一点，工作了一点，读书了一点，写作了一点一点诗歌，一点植物学。我想她是一位五十岁左右的女士，穿着年轻，肤色非常好。如果我在她的成就的小清单上加上她一点点的修饰，我并不是说这有什么坏处。

Mr. Bayham Badger himself was a pink, fresh-faced, crisp-looking gentleman with a weak voice, white teeth, light hair, and surprised eyes, some years younger, I should say, than Mrs. Bayham Badger. He admired her exceedingly, but principally, and to begin with, on the curious ground (as it seemed to us) of her having had three husbands. We had barely taken our seats when he said to Mr. Jarndyce quite triumphantly, ‘You would hardly suppose that I am Mrs. Bayham Badger’s third!’
贝汉姆獾先生本人是一位粉红色的、面容清新、神情清脆的绅士，声音微弱，牙齿洁白，头发浅色，眼神惊讶，我应该说，比贝汉姆獾夫人年轻几岁。他非常钦佩她，但主要是因为她有过三个丈夫，这一点很奇怪（在我们看来）。我们刚落座，他就得意洋洋地对贾迪斯先生说：“你很难想象我是贝厄姆獾夫人的第三个孩子！”

‘Indeed?’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“真的吗？”贾迪斯先生说。

‘Her third!’ said Mr. Badger. ‘Mrs. Bayham Badger has not the appearance, Miss Summerson, of a lady who has had two former husbands?’
“她的第三个！”獾先生说。 '太太。萨默森小姐，贝汉姆獾的外表不像一位有过两个前夫的女士吗？

I said ‘Not at all!’
我说“一点也不！”

‘And most remarkable men!’ said Mr. Badger in a tone of confidence. ‘Captain Swosser of the Royal Navy, who was Mrs. Badger’s first husband, was a very distinguished officer indeed. The name of Professor Dingo, my immediate predecessor, is one of European reputation.’
“还有最杰出的人！”巴杰先生自信地说。 “皇家海军斯沃瑟上尉是巴杰夫人的第一任丈夫，他确实是一位非常杰出的军官。我的前任丁戈教授的名字在欧洲享有盛誉。

Mrs. Badger overheard him and smiled.
獾夫人无意中听到他的话，笑了。

‘Yes, my dear!’ Mr. Badger replied to the smile, ‘I was observing to Mr. Jarndyce and Miss Summerson that you had had two former husbands—both very distinguished men. And they found it, as people generally do, difficult to believe.’
“是的，亲爱的！”獾先生微笑着回答道，“我对詹迪斯先生和萨默森小姐说，你们有过两个前夫——都是非常杰出的人。正如人们通常所做的那样，他们发现这很难相信。

‘I was barely twenty,’ said Mrs. Badger, ‘when I married Captain Swosser of the Royal Navy. I was in the Mediterranean with him; I am quite a sailor. On the twelfth anniversary of my wedding-day, I became the wife of Professor Dingo.’
“当我嫁给皇家海军斯沃瑟上尉时，”巴杰尔夫人说，“我还不到二十岁。”我和他一起在地中海；我是一名十足的水手。在我结婚十二周年纪念日，我成为了丁戈教授的妻子。

‘Of European reputation,’ added Mr. Badger in an undertone.
“享有欧洲声誉，”巴杰尔先生低声补充道。

‘And when Mr. Badger and myself were married,’ pursued Mrs. Badger, ‘we were married on the same day of the year. I had become attached to the day.’
“当巴杰先生和我结婚时，”巴杰太太继续说道，“我们是在一年中的同一天结婚的。”我已经对这一天产生了依恋。

‘So that Mrs. Badger has been married to three husbands—two of them highly distinguished men,’ said Mr. Badger, summing up the facts, ‘and each time upon the twenty-first of March at eleven in the forenoon!’
“这么说，巴杰尔太太已经嫁给了三个丈夫——其中两个都是非常杰出的男人，”巴杰尔先生总结事实说，“每次都是在三月二十一号上午十一点！”

We all expressed our admiration.
我们都表示钦佩。

‘But for Mr. Badger’s modesty,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘I would take leave to correct him and say three distinguished men.’
“要不是獾先生很谦虚，”贾迪斯先生说，“我想请假纠正他，说是三位杰出的人物。”

‘Thank you, Mr. Jarndyce! What I always tell him!’ observed Mrs. Badger.
“谢谢你，贾迪斯先生！”我总是告诉他！”獾夫人评论道。

‘And, my dear,’ said Mr. Badger, ‘what do I always tell you? That without any affectation of disparaging such professional distinction as I may have attained (which our friend Mr. Carstone will have many opportunities of estimating), I am not so weak—no, really,’ said Mr. Badger to us generally, ‘so unreasonable—as to put my reputation on the same footing with such first-rate men as Captain Swosser and Professor Dingo. Perhaps you may be interested, Mr. Jarndyce,’ continued Mr. Bayham Badger, leading the way into the next drawing-room, ‘in this portrait of Captain Swosser. It was taken on his return home from the African station, where he had suffered from the fever of the country. Mrs. Badger considers it too yellow. But it’s a very fine head. A very fine head!’
“而且，亲爱的，”獾先生说，“我总是告诉你什么？没有任何贬低我可能获得的专业荣誉的任何矫揉造作（我们的朋友卡斯通先生将有很多机会估计），我并没有那么软弱——不，真的，”巴杰尔先生一般对我们说，“所以不合理——居然把我的声誉与斯沃瑟船长和丁戈教授这样的一流人物放在同一地位。贾迪斯先生，也许您可​​能对斯沃瑟船长的这幅肖像感兴趣，”贝汉姆·獾先生继续说道，他带路走进了下一个客厅。这张照片是他从非洲站回国时拍摄的，他在那里患上了该国的发烧病。獾夫人认为它太黄了。但这是一个非常好的头。一个非常好的头！

We all echoed, ‘A very fine head!’
我们都附和道：“一个非常好的头脑！”

‘I feel when I look at it,’ said Mr. Badger, ‘‘That’s a man I should like to have seen!’ It strikingly bespeaks the first-class man that Captain Swosser pre-eminently was. On the other side, Professor Dingo. I knew him well—attended him in his last illness—a speaking likeness! Over the piano, Mrs. Bayham Badger when Mrs. Swosser. Over the sofa, Mrs. Bayham Badger when Mrs. Dingo. Of Mrs. Bayham Badger IN ESSE, I possess the original and have no copy.’
“当我看到它时，我觉得，”巴杰尔先生说，“这是一个我希望看到的人！”它惊人地表明了斯沃瑟船长是一位一流的人。另一边是丁戈教授。我很了解他——在他最后一次生病时照顾过他——说话很相似！在钢琴上，贝汉姆獾夫人当斯沃瑟夫人。沙发那边是贝汉姆獾夫人，同时也是野狗夫人。 《埃塞的贝汉姆獾夫人》的原件我有，但没有副本。

Dinner was now announced, and we went downstairs. It was a very genteel entertainment, very handsomely served. But the captain and the professor still ran in Mr. Badger’s head, and as Ada and I had the honour of being under his particular care, we had the full benefit of them.
晚餐已经宣布了，我们下楼了。这是一场非常优雅的娱乐活动，服务非常周到。但船长和教授仍然在獾先生的脑海里萦绕，而艾达和我有幸受到他的特别照顾，我们从他们那里得到了充分的好处。

‘Water, Miss Summerson? Allow me! Not in that tumbler, pray. Bring me the professor’s goblet, James!’
“水吗，萨默森小姐？请允许我！祈祷不是在那个玻璃杯里。詹姆斯，把教授的高脚杯给我拿来！

Ada very much admired some artificial flowers under a glass.
艾达非常欣赏玻璃下的一些人造花。

‘Astonishing how they keep!’ said Mr. Badger. ‘They were presented to Mrs. Bayham Badger when she was in the Mediterranean.’
“他们的保存方式令人惊讶！”獾先生说。 “当贝厄姆獾夫人在地中海时，这些东西是送给她的。”

He invited Mr. Jarndyce to take a glass of claret.
他邀请贾迪斯先生喝一杯红葡萄酒。

‘Not that claret!’ he said. ‘Excuse me! This is an occasion, and ON an occasion I produce some very special claret I happen to have. (James, Captain Swosser’s wine!) Mr. Jarndyce, this is a wine that was imported by the captain, we will not say how many years ago. You will find it very curious. My dear, I shall he happy to take some of this wine with you. (Captain Swosser’s claret to your mistress, James!) My love, your health!’
“不是那种红葡萄酒！”他说。 '打扰一下！这是一个场合，在这个场合我生产了一些我碰巧拥有的非常特别的红葡萄酒。 （James，Swosser船长的酒！）Jarndyce先生，这是船长进口的酒，多少年前我们就不说了。你会觉得非常好奇。亲爱的，我很乐意带一些这种酒给你。 （斯沃瑟船长的红葡萄酒送给你的情妇詹姆斯！）我的爱人，你的健康！

After dinner, when we ladies retired, we took Mrs. Badger’s first and second husband with us. Mrs. Badger gave us in the drawing-room a biographical sketch of the life and services of Captain Swosser before his marriage and a more minute account of him dating from the time when he fell in love with her at a ball on board the Crippler, given to the officers of that ship when she lay in Plymouth Harbour.
晚饭后，当我们女士退休时，我们带着巴杰夫人的第一任和第二任丈夫一起去。巴杰尔夫人在客厅里向我们介绍了斯沃瑟船长婚前的生活和服务的传记，还详细介绍了他从他在瘸子号船上的一次舞会上爱上她的那一刻起，当该船停泊在普利茅斯港时，交给了该船的高级船员。

‘The dear old Crippler!’ said Mrs. Badger, shaking her head. ‘She was a noble vessel. Trim, ship-shape, all a taunto, as Captain Swosser used to say. You must excuse me if I occasionally introduce a nautical expression; I was quite a sailor once. Captain Swosser loved that craft for my sake. When she was no longer in commission, he frequently said that if he were rich enough to buy her old hulk, he would have an inscription let into the timbers of the quarterdeck where we stood as partners in the dance to mark the spot where he fell—raked fore and aft (Captain Swosser used to say) by the fire from my tops. It was his naval way of mentioning my eyes.’
“亲爱的老跛子！”獾太太摇着头说道。 “她是一艘高贵的船只。整齐，船形，一切都是一种嘲讽，正如斯沃瑟船长常说的那样。如果我偶尔介绍一下航海用语，请见谅。我曾经是一名出色的水手。斯沃瑟船长为了我而喜欢这艘船。当她不再服役时，他经常说，如果他有足够的钱买下她的旧船，他会在尾甲板的木材上刻上一段铭文，我们作为舞伴站在那儿，以标记他跌倒的地方——从我上衣的火光中前后倾斜（斯沃瑟船长常说）。这是他提到我眼睛的海军方式。

Mrs. Badger shook her head, sighed, and looked in the glass.
巴杰尔太太摇摇头，叹了口气，看着镜子。

‘It was a great change from Captain Swosser to Professor Dingo,’ she resumed with a plaintive smile. ‘I felt it a good deal at first. Such an entire revolution in my mode of life! But custom, combined with science—particularly science—inured me to it. Being the professor’s sole companion in his botanical excursions, I almost forgot that I had ever been afloat, and became quite learned. It is singular that the professor was the antipodes of Captain Swosser and that Mr. Badger is not in the least like either!’
“从斯沃瑟船长到丁戈教授，这是一个巨大的转变，”她带着哀伤的微笑继续说道。 '一开始我感觉很好。我的生活方式发生了彻底的革命！但习惯与科学——尤其是科学——相结合，让我习惯了这种做法。作为教授植物学之旅中唯一的同伴，我几乎忘记了自己曾在海上漂浮过，并且变得博学多闻。奇怪的是，这位教授与斯沃瑟船长是对立面，而獾先生却一点也不像！

We then passed into a narrative of the deaths of Captain Swosser and Professor Dingo, both of whom seem to have had very bad complaints. In the course of it, Mrs. Badger signified to us that she had never madly loved but once and that the object of that wild affection, never to be recalled in its fresh enthusiasm, was Captain Swosser. The professor was yet dying by inches in the most dismal manner, and Mrs. Badger was giving us imitations of his way of saying, with great difficulty, ‘Where is Laura? Let Laura give me my toast and water!’ when the entrance of the gentlemen consigned him to the tomb.
然后我们开始讲述斯沃瑟船长和丁戈教授的死亡，他们两人似乎都有过非常糟糕的抱怨。在这个过程中，獾夫人向我们表明，她从来没有疯狂地爱过一次，而那种疯狂的爱的对象，却永远不会以其新鲜的热情被回忆起来，就是斯沃瑟船长。教授正以最悲惨的方式一点点死去，獾夫人正在模仿他的方式，艰难地问：“劳拉在哪里？”当先生们进来把他送进坟墓时，让劳拉给我烤面包和水！”

Now, I observed that evening, as I had observed for some days past, that Ada and Richard were more than ever attached to each other’s society, which was but natural, seeing that they were going to be separated so soon. I was therefore not very much surprised when we got home, and Ada and I retired upstairs, to find Ada more silent than usual, though I was not quite prepared for her coming into my arms and beginning to speak to me, with her face hidden.
现在，那天晚上我观察到，正如我过去几天观察到的那样，艾达和理查德比以往任何时候都更加依恋彼此的社会，这是很自然的，因为他们很快就要分开了。因此，当我们回到家，艾达和我退到楼上，发现艾达比平时更加​​沉默时，我并没有感到太惊讶，尽管我还没有准备好让她走进我的怀里，开始和我说话，她的脸被遮住了。

‘My darling Esther!’ murmured Ada. ‘I have a great secret to tell you!’
“我亲爱的埃丝特！”艾达低声说道。 “我有一个天大的秘密要告诉你！”

A mighty secret, my pretty one, no doubt!
毫无疑问，这是一个巨大的秘密，我美丽的秘密！

‘What is it, Ada?’
“这是什么，艾达？”

‘Oh, Esther, you would never guess!’
“哦，埃丝特，你绝对猜不到！”

‘Shall I try to guess?’ said I.
“要我猜猜吗？”我说。

‘Oh, no! Don’t! Pray don’t!’ cried Ada, very much startled by the idea of my doing so.
'不好了！不！请不要这样做！”艾达喊道，她对我这样做的想法感到非常惊讶。

‘Now, I wonder who it can be about?’ said I, pretending to consider.
“现在，我想知道它可能是关于谁的？”我假装思考着说道。

‘It’s about—‘ said Ada in a whisper. ‘It’s about—my cousin Richard!’
“这是关于——”艾达低声说道。 “是关于——我的表弟理查德！”

‘Well, my own!’ said I, kissing her bright hair, which was all I could see. ‘And what about him?’
“好吧，我自己的！”我一边说，一边亲吻她亮丽的头发，这是我所能看到的一切。 “那他呢？”

‘Oh, Esther, you would never guess!’
“哦，埃丝特，你绝对猜不到！”

It was so pretty to have her clinging to me in that way, hiding her face, and to know that she was not crying in sorrow but in a little glow of joy, and pride, and hope, that I would not help her just yet.
她以这种方式紧贴着我，遮住脸，知道她不是因悲伤而哭泣，而是带着一丝喜悦、自豪和希望，我现在还无法帮助她，这真是太美妙了。 。

‘He says—I know it’s very foolish, we are both so young—but he says,’ with a burst of tears, ‘that he loves me dearly, Esther.’
“他说——我知道这很愚蠢，我们都那么年轻——但他泪流满面地说，“他深爱着我，埃丝特。”

‘Does he indeed?’ said I. ‘I never heard of such a thing! Why, my pet of pets, I could have told you that weeks and weeks ago!’
“真的吗？”我说，“我从来没有听说过这样的事！”为什么，我的宠物中的宠物，我几周前就可以告诉你了！

To see Ada lift up her flushed face in joyful surprise, and hold me round the neck, and laugh, and cry, and blush, was so pleasant!
看到艾达高兴地抬起她通红的脸，搂着我的脖子，笑，哭，脸红，真是令人愉快！

‘Why, my darling,’ said I, ‘what a goose you must take me for! Your cousin Richard has been loving you as plainly as he could for I don’t know how long!’
“哎呀，亲爱的，”我说，“你一定把我当成一只多么愚蠢的鹅了！”你的表弟理查德已经尽可能地爱你了，我不知道多久了！

‘And yet you never said a word about it!’ cried Ada, kissing me.
“但你却对此只字不提！”艾达一边亲吻我一边喊道。

‘No, my love,’ said I. ‘I waited to be told.’
“不，亲爱的，”我说，“我等着别人告诉我。”

‘But now I have told you, you don’t think it wrong of me, do you?’ returned Ada. She might have coaxed me to say no if I had been the hardest-hearted duenna in the world. Not being that yet, I said no very freely.
“但现在我告诉你了，你不会认为我有错吧？”艾达回答道。如果我是世界上最铁石心肠的人，她可能会哄我拒绝。还没到那一步，我就很随意地说“不”。

‘And now,’ said I, ‘I know the worst of it.’
“现在，”我说，“我知道最糟糕的情况了。”

‘Oh, that’s not quite the worst of it, Esther dear!’ cried Ada, holding me tighter and laying down her face again upon my breast.
“噢，这还不是最糟糕的，亲爱的艾丝特！”艾达叫道，她把我抱得更紧，把脸再次靠在我的胸前。

‘No?’ said I. ‘Not even that?’
“不？”我说，“连这个也不行吗？”

‘No, not even that!’ said Ada, shaking her head.
“不，连这个都不是！”艾达摇着头说道。

‘Why, you never mean to say—‘ I was beginning in joke.
“哎呀，你从来没想过要说——”我是开玩笑地开始的。

But Ada, looking up and smiling through her tear’s, cried, ‘Yes, I do! You know, you know I do!’ And then sobbed out, ‘With all my heart I do! With all my whole heart, Esther!’
但艾达抬起头，含着泪水微笑着喊道：“是的，我愿意！”你知道，你知道我愿意！”然后抽泣着说，“我全心全意地愿意！我全心全意，埃丝特！

I told her, laughing, why I had known that, too, just as well as I had known the other! And we sat before the fire, and I had all the talking to myself for a little while (though there was not much of it); and Ada was soon quiet and happy.
我笑着告诉她，为什么我也知道这一点，就像我了解另一个一样！我们坐在火炉前，我自言自语了一会儿（虽然话不多）。艾达很快就平静而快乐了。

‘Do you think my cousin John knows, dear Dame Durden?’ she asked.
“亲爱的德登夫人，你认为我的表弟约翰认识吗？”她问道。

‘Unless my cousin John is blind, my pet,’ said I, ‘I should think my cousin John knows pretty well as much as we know.’
“除非我的表弟约翰是我的宠物，”我说，“否则我应该认为我的表弟约翰知道的事情和我们一样多。”

‘We want to speak to him before Richard goes,’ said Ada timidly, ‘and we wanted you to advise us, and to tell him so. Perhaps you wouldn’t mind Richard’s coming in, Dame Durden?’
“我们想在理查德走之前和他谈谈，”艾达胆怯地说，“我们希望你给我们建议，并告诉他这一点。也许你不介意理查德进来，德登夫人？

‘Oh! Richard is outside, is he, my dear?’ said I.
'哦！ “理查德在外面，是吗，亲爱的？”我说道。

‘I am not quite certain,’ returned Ada with a bashful simplicity that would have won my heart if she had not won it long before, ‘but I think he’s waiting at the door.’
“我不太确定，”艾达用一种害羞的简单语气回答道，如果她不是很久以前就赢得了我的心，这种简单的态度会赢得我的心，“但我认为他正在门口等着。”

There he was, of course. They brought a chair on either side of me, and put me between them, and really seemed to have fallen in love with me instead of one another, they were so confiding, and so trustful, and so fond of me. They went on in their own wild way for a little while—I never stopped them; I enjoyed it too much myself— and then we gradually fell to considering how young they were, and how there must be a lapse of several years before this early love could come to anything, and how it could come to happiness only if it were real and lasting and inspired them with a steady resolution to do their duty to each other, with constancy, fortitude, and perseverance, each always for the other’s sake. Well! Richard said that he would work his fingers to the bone for Ada, and Ada said that she would work her fingers to the bone for Richard, and they called me all sorts of endearing and sensible names, and we sat there, advising and talking, half the night. Finally, before we parted, I gave them my promise to speak to their cousin John tomorrow.
当然，他就在那儿。他们在我的两侧拿了一把椅子，把我放在他们中间，他们似乎真的爱上了我，而不是彼此，他们是那么信任我，那么信任我，那么喜欢我。他们以自己的方式疯狂地继续了一会儿——我从来没有阻止过他们；我自己也太享受了——然后我们逐渐开始考虑他们是多么年轻，这段早年的爱情必须经过几年的时间才能实现，只有当它是真实的时候才能获得幸福并持久地激励他们坚定决心，以坚定不移、刚毅和毅力，为彼此履行自己的职责，始终为对方着想。出色地！理查德说他会为艾达竭尽全力，艾达也说她会为理查德竭尽全力，他们给我起了各种可爱又明智的名字，我们坐在那里，提供建议和交谈，半夜。最后，在我们分别之前，我向他们保证明天会和他们的表弟约翰谈谈。

So, when to-morrow came, I went to my guardian after breakfast, in the room that was our town-substitute for the growlery, and told him that I had it in trust to tell him something.
所以，明天到来时，我吃完早饭就到了我的监护人那里，在我们镇上咆哮的替代房间里，告诉他我有信心告诉他一些事情。

‘Well, little woman,’ said he, shutting up his book, ‘if you have accepted the trust, there can be no harm in it.’
“好吧，小女人，”他合上书说道，“如果你接受了信任，那就没有什么坏处了。”

‘I hope not, guardian,’ said I. ‘I can guarantee that there is no secrecy in it. For it only happened yesterday.’
“我希望不会，监护人，”我说，“我可以保证这里面没有秘密。”因为这只是昨天发生的事。”

‘Aye? And what is it, Esther?’
‘是吗？那是什么，埃丝特？

‘Guardian,’ said I, ‘you remember the happy night when first we came down to Bleak House? When Ada was singing in the dark room?’
“守护者，”我说，“你还记得我们第一次来到荒凉山庄时那个快乐的夜晚吗？当艾达在黑暗的房间里唱歌时？

I wished to call to his remembrance the look he had given me then. Unless I am much mistaken, I saw that I did so.
我想让他记住他当时看我的眼神。除非我弄错了，否则我看到我这样做了。

‘Because—‘ said I with a little hesitation.
“因为——”我有点犹豫地说。

‘Yes, my dear!’ said he. ‘Don’t hurry.’
“是的，亲爱的！”他说。 “别着急。”

‘Because,’ said I, ‘Ada and Richard have fallen in love. And have told each other so.’
“因为，”我说，“艾达和理查德相爱了。”并且互相如此告知。

‘Already!’ cried my guardian, quite astonished.
“已经了！”我的监护人非常惊讶地喊道。

‘Yes!’ said I. ‘And to tell you the truth, guardian, I rather expected it.’
“是的！”我说，“说实话，监护人，我早就料到会这样。”

‘The deuce you did!’ said he.
“你干的好事！”他说。

He sat considering for a minute or two, with his smile, at once so handsome and so kind, upon his changing face, and then requested me to let them know that he wished to see them. When they came, he encircled Ada with one arm in his fatherly way and addressed himself to Richard with a cheerful gravity.
他坐在那里思考了一两分钟，脸上的笑容显得那么英俊又那么善良，然后要求我让他们知道他想见他们。当他们到来时，他以父亲的方式用一只手臂搂住艾达，以愉快而严肃的态度向理查德致意。

‘Rick,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘I am glad to have won your confidence. I hope to preserve it. When I contemplated these relations between us four which have so brightened my life and so invested it with new interests and pleasures, I certainly did contemplate, afar off, the possibility of you and your pretty cousin here (don’t be shy, Ada, don’t be shy, my dear!) being in a mind to go through life together. I saw, and do see, many reasons to make it desirable. But that was afar off, Rick, afar off!’
“瑞克，”贾迪斯先生说，“我很高兴赢得了你的信任。我希望能保存下来。当我思考我们四个人之间的这些关系使我的生活如此明亮，并为它注入新的兴趣和乐趣时，我当然也确实在远处思考过你和你漂亮的表弟在这里的可能性（别害羞，艾达，不要害羞，亲爱的！） 愿意一起度过一生。我看到并且确实看到了许多让它变得令人向往的理由。但那是很遥远的事，瑞克，很遥远的事！”

‘We look afar off, sir,’ returned Richard.
“我们看得很远，长官，”理查德回答道。

‘Well!’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘That’s rational. Now, hear me, my dears! I might tell you that you don’t know your own minds yet, that a thousand things may happen to divert you from one another, that it is well this chain of flowers you have taken up is very easily broken, or it might become a chain of lead. But I will not do that. Such wisdom will come soon enough, I dare say, if it is to come at all. I will assume that a few years hence you will be in your hearts to one another what you are to-day. All I say before speaking to you according to that assumption is, if you DO change— if you DO come to find that you are more commonplace cousins to each other as man and woman than you were as boy and girl (your manhood will excuse me, Rick!)—don’t be ashamed still to confide in me, for there will be nothing monstrous or uncommon in it. I am only your friend and distant kinsman. I have no power over you whatever. But I wish and hope to retain your confidence if I do nothing to forfeit it.’
“好吧！”贾迪斯先生说。 ‘这是有道理的。现在，听我说，亲爱的！我可能会告诉你，你还不知道自己的想法，可能会发生一千件事使你们彼此分心，你所拿起的这串花很容易断裂，或者它可能会变成一串铅链。但我不会那样做。我敢说，这种智慧很快就会到来，如果它真的会到来的话。我想，几年后，你们彼此心里就会像今天一样。在根据这个假设对你说话之前，我要说的是，如果你确实改变了——如果你确实发现，你们作为男人和女人，比作为男孩和女孩时，彼此之间更像是普通的表亲（请原谅我，你的男子气概） ，瑞克！）——不要因为向我吐露心声而感到羞耻，因为其中不会有什么可怕或不寻常的事情。我只是你的朋友和远房亲戚。我对你没有任何权力。但如果我不采取任何行动来失去你的信任，我希望并希望能够保留你的信任。”

‘I am very sure, sir,’ returned Richard, ‘that I speak for Ada too when I say that you have the strongest power over us both—rooted in respect, gratitude, and affection—strengthening every day.’
“我非常确定，先生，”理查德回答道，“当我说你对我们俩拥有最强大的力量时，我也代表艾达说话——植根于尊重、感激和感情——每天都在增强。”

‘Dear cousin John,’ said Ada, on his shoulder, ‘my father’s place can never be empty again. All the love and duty I could ever have rendered to him is transferred to you.’
“亲爱的约翰表弟，”艾达靠在他的肩上说道，“我父亲的位置再也不能空了。”我所能给予他的所有爱和责任都转移给了你。”

‘Come!’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘Now for our assumption. Now we lift our eyes up and look hopefully at the distance! Rick, the world is before you; and it is most probable that as you enter it, so it will receive you. Trust in nothing but in Providence and your own efforts. Never separate the two, like the heathen waggoner. Constancy in love is a good thing, but it means nothing, and is nothing, without constancy in every kind of effort. If you had the abilities of all the great men, past and present, you could do nothing well without sincerely meaning it and setting about it. If you entertain the supposition that any real success, in great things or in small, ever was or could be, ever will or can be, wrested from Fortune by fits and starts, leave that wrong idea here or leave your cousin Ada here.’
“来吧！”贾迪斯先生说道。 ‘现在我们的假设。现在我们抬起眼睛，满怀希望地望着远方！瑞克，世界就在你面前；当你进入它时，它很可能会接待你。除了普罗维登斯和你自己的努力之外，什么都不相信。永远不要像异教徒的马车夫一样将两者分开。爱情的恒久固然是好事，但如果没有恒久的努力，爱情就毫无意义，也毫无意义。如果你拥有过去和现在所有伟人的能力，如果你没有真诚地发心并付诸行动，你就什么也做不好。如果你认为任何真正的成功，无论是大事还是小事，都曾经或可能、曾经或可能会时断时续地从财富中夺取，那么就把这个错误的想法留在这里，或者把你的表弟艾达留在这里。

‘I will leave IT here, sir,’ replied Richard smiling, ‘if I brought it here just now (but I hope I did not), and will work my way on to my cousin Ada in the hopeful distance.’
“我会把它留在这里，先生，”理查德微笑着回答，“如果我刚才把它带到这里的话（但我希望我没有），然后我会在充满希望的远处找到我的表弟艾达。”

‘Right!’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘If you are not to make her happy, why should you pursue her?’
“对！”贾迪斯先生说。 “如果你不能让她幸福，你为什么要追求她？”

‘I wouldn’t make her unhappy—no, not even for her love,’ retorted Richard proudly.
“我不会让她不高兴——不，即使是为了她的爱，”理查德自豪地反驳道。

‘Well said!’ cried Mr. Jarndyce. ‘That’s well said! She remains here, in her home with me. Love her, Rick, in your active life, no less than in her home when you revisit it, and all will go well. Otherwise, all will go ill. That’s the end of my preaching. I think you and Ada had better take a walk.’
“说得好！”贾迪斯先生喊道。 ‘说得好！她仍然留在这里，和我一起住在她的家里。瑞克，在你积极的生活中爱她，就像你重访她的家一样，一切都会顺利。否则，一切都会生病。我的讲道就到此结束。我想你和艾达最好去散散步。”

Ada tenderly embraced him, and Richard heartily shook hands with him, and then the cousins went out of the room, looking back again directly, though, to say that they would wait for me.
艾达温柔地拥抱了他，理查德也热情地与他握手，然后表兄弟姐妹走出了房间，但又直接回头看了看，说他们会等我。

The door stood open, and we both followed them with our eyes as they passed down the adjoining room, on which the sun was shining, and out at its farther end. Richard with his head bent, and her hand drawn through his arm, was talking to her very earnestly; and she looked up in his face, listening, and seemed to see nothing else. So young, so beautiful, so full of hope and promise, they went on lightly through the sunlight as their own happy thoughts might then be traversing the years to come and making them all years of brightness. So they passed away into the shadow and were gone. It was only a burst of light that had been so radiant. The room darkened as they went out, and the sun was clouded over.
门开着，我们俩的目光跟着他们穿过隔壁的房间，阳光照耀着房间，从房间的另一端出去。理查德低着头，她的手挽着他的手臂，非常认真地和她说话。她抬头看着他的脸，听着，但似乎什么也没看到。那么年轻，那么美丽，那么充满希望和希望，他们在阳光下轻盈地前行，因为他们自己的快乐思想可能会穿越未来的岁月，让他们的岁月变得光明。于是他们就消失在阴影里了。那只是一道光芒，竟然如此璀璨。当他们出去时，房间里变暗了，太阳也被乌云遮住了。

‘Am I right, Esther?’ said my guardian when they were gone.
“我说得对吗，埃丝特？”他们走后，我的监护人说道。

He was so good and wise to ask ME whether he was right!
他是如此善良和明智，竟然问我他是否正确！

‘Rick may gain, out of this, the quality he wants. Wants, at the core of so much that is good!’ said Mr. Jarndyce, shaking his head. ‘I have said nothing to Ada, Esther. She has her friend and counsellor always near.’ And he laid his hand lovingly upon my head.
“里克可能会从中获得他想要的品质。想要，这一切的核心都是好的！”贾迪斯先生摇着头说道。 “我没有对艾达说过什么，埃丝特。她的朋友和顾问总是在她身边。”然后他慈爱地将手放在我的头上。

I could not help showing that I was a little moved, though I did all I could to conceal it.
我忍不住流露出一丝感动，尽管我极力掩饰。

‘Tut tut!’ said he. ‘But we must take care, too, that our little woman’s life is not all consumed in care for others.’
“啧啧！”他说道。 “但我们也必须注意，我们的小女人的生命不要全部消耗在照顾他人上。”

‘Care? My dear guardian, I believe I am the happiest creature in the world!’
'关心？我亲爱的守护者，我相信我是世界上最幸福的生物！

‘I believe so, too,’ said he. ‘But some one may find out what Esther never will—that the little woman is to be held in remembrance above all other people!’
“我也这么认为，”他说。 “但有人可能会发现埃丝特永远不会发现的事情——这个小女人应该比其他所有人更值得纪念！”

I have omitted to mention in its place that there was some one else at the family dinner party. It was not a lady. It was a gentleman. It was a gentleman of a dark complexion—a young surgeon. He was rather reserved, but I thought him very sensible and agreeable. At least, Ada asked me if I did not, and I said yes.
我没有提及家庭晚宴上还有其他人。那不是一位女士。这是一位绅士。那是一位肤色黝黑的绅士——一位年轻的外科医生。他比较内向，但我觉得他很懂事，很和蔼可亲。至少，艾达问我是否没有，我说是。

CHAPTER XIV
第十四章


Deportment
仪态

Richard left us on the very next evening to begin his new career, and committed Ada to my charge with great love for her and great trust in me. It touched me then to reflect, and it touches me now, more nearly, to remember (having what I have to tell) how they both thought of me, even at that engrossing time. I was a part of all their plans, for the present and the future, I was to write Richard once a week, making my faithful report of Ada, who was to write to him every alternate day. I was to be informed, under his own hand, of all his labours and successes; I was to observe how resolute and persevering he would be; I was to be Ada’s bridesmaid when they were married; I was to live with them afterwards; I was to keep all the keys of their house; I was to be made happy for ever and a day.
理查德第二天晚​​上就离开了我们，开始了他的新职业生涯，并带着对艾达的爱和对我的信任，将艾达托付给我照顾。当时我的反思触动了我，而现在，更接近的是，记住（我必须讲述的）他们是如何看待我的，即使是在那个引人入胜的时刻。我是他们所有计划的一部分，无论是现在还是将来，我每周给理查德写一次信，忠实地报告艾达的情况，艾达每隔一天给他写信。我将在他亲手的指导下得知他所有的努力和成功。我要观察他有多么坚决和毅力；他们结婚时我将成为艾达的伴娘；之后我就和他们住在一起；我要保管他们房子的所有钥匙；我要永远快乐一天。

‘And if the suit SHOULD make us rich, Esther—which it may, you know!’ said Richard to crown all.
“如果这套衣服能让我们变得富有，埃丝特——你知道，这可能是可能的！”理查德说道。

A shade crossed Ada’s face.
艾达的脸上掠过一丝阴影。

‘My dearest Ada,’ asked Richard, ‘why not?’
“我最亲爱的艾达，”理查德问，“为什么不呢？”

‘It had better declare us poor at once,’ said Ada.
“最好立即宣布我们为穷人，”艾达说。

‘Oh! I don’t know about that,’ returned Richard, ‘but at all events, it won’t declare anything at once. It hasn’t declared anything in heaven knows how many years.’
'哦！我不知道这一点，”理查德回答道，“但无论如何，它不会立即宣布任何事情。天知道有多少年了，它还没有宣布任何事情。

‘Too true,’ said Ada.
“太对了，”艾达说。

‘Yes, but,’ urged Richard, answering what her look suggested rather than her words, ‘the longer it goes on, dcar cousin, the nearer it must be to a settlement one way or other. Now, is not that reasonable?’
“是的，但是，”理查德催促道，回答的是她的表情所暗示的而不是她的话，“持续的时间越长，表弟，无论怎样，它一定越接近解决方案。现在，这不是很合理吗？

‘You know best, Richard. But I am afraid if we trust to it, it will make us unhappy.’
“你最了解，理查德。但我担心如果我们相信它，它会让我们不高兴。”

‘But, my Ada, we are not going to trust to it!’ cried Richard gaily. ‘We know it better than to trust to it. We only say that if it SHOULD make us rich, we have no constitutional objection to being rich. The court is, by solemn settlement of law, our grim old guardian, and we are to suppose that what it gives us (when it gives us anything) is our right. It is not necessary to quarrel with our right.’
“但是，我的艾达，我们不会相信它！”理查德高兴地喊道。 “我们比相信它更了解它。我们只是说，如果它应该让我们变得富有，我们就没有宪法上反对变得富有。通过法律的庄严解决，法院是我们冷酷的老监护人，我们应该假设它给我们的东西（当它给我们任何东西时）就是我们的权利。没有必要争论我们的权利。

‘No,’ Said Ada, ‘but it may be better to forget all about it.’
“不，”艾达说，“但最好还是忘记这件事。”

‘Well, well,’ cried Richard, ‘then we will forget all about it! We consign the whole thing to oblivion. Dame Durden puts on her approving face, and it’s done!’
“好吧，好吧，”理查德喊道，“那么我们就忘记这一切了！我们把整件事都遗忘了。德登夫人脸上露出赞许的表情，就完成了！

‘Dame Durden’s approving face,’ said I, looking out of the box in which I was packing his books, ‘was not very visible when you called it by that name; but it does approve, and she thinks you can’t do better.’
“杜登夫人赞许的表情，”我一边说，一边从装着他书的盒子里往外看，“当你用这个名字称呼它时，它并不是很明显；但它确实是一种赞许的表情。”但它确实批准了，而且她认为你不能做得更好。”

So, Richard said there was an end of it, and immediately began, on no other foundation, to build as many castles in the air as would man the Great Wall of China. He went away in high spirits. Ada and I, prepared to miss him very much, commenced our quieter career.
所以，理查说事情已经结束了，并立即开始在没有其他基础的情况下建造尽可能多的空中楼阁，就像中国的长城一样。他兴高采烈地走了。艾达和我准备好非常想念他，开始了我们更安静的职业生涯。

On our arrival in London, we had called with Mr. Jarndyce at Mrs. Jellyby’s but had not been so fortunate as to find her at home. It appeared that she had gone somewhere to a tea-drinking and had taken Miss Jellyby with her. Besides the tea-drinking, there was to be some considerable speech-making and letter-writing on the general merits of the cultivation of coffee, conjointly with natives, at the Settlement of Borrioboola-Gha. All this involved, no doubt, sufficient active exercise of pen and ink to make her daughter’s part in the proceedings anything but a holiday.
抵达伦敦后，我们去杰利比夫人家拜访了贾迪斯先生，但没那么幸运在家里找到她。看来她是去什么地方喝茶了，还带着杰利比小姐一起去的。除了喝茶之外，在博里奥布拉-加定居点，还要与当地人一起就咖啡种植的一般优点进行一些重要的演讲和写信。毫无疑问，所有这一切都需要充分积极地运用笔墨，使她女儿参与诉讼程序绝非假期。

It being now beyond the time appointed for Mrs. Jellyby’s return, we called again. She was in town, but not at home, having gone to Mile End directly after breakfast on some Borrioboolan business, arising out of a society called the East London Branch Aid Ramification. As I had not seen Peepy on the occasion of our last call (when he was not to be found anywhere, and when the cook rather thought he must have strolled away with the dustman’s cart), I now inquired for him again. The oyster shells he had been building a house with were still in the passage, but he was nowhere discoverable, and the cook supposed that he had ‘gone after the sheep.’ When we repeated, with some surprise, ‘The sheep?’ she said, Oh, yes, on market days he sometimes followed them quite out of town and came back in such a state as never was!
现在已经超过了杰利比夫人回来的时间，我们又打电话了。她在城里，但不在家，早餐后直接去了麦尔安德，处理一些博里奥布尔兰的生意，这些生意是由一个名为东伦敦分会援助分支的协会发起的。由于上次拜访时我没有见到皮皮（当时到处都找不到他，而且厨师认为他一定是推着清洁工的推车溜走了），所以我现在又去找他了。他用来盖房子的牡蛎壳仍然在过道里，但他却无处可寻，厨师认为他“去追羊了。”当我们有些惊讶地重复“羊？”时，她说。说，哦，是的，在集市的日子里，他有时会跟着他们出城，回来时的状态是前所未有的！

I was sitting at the window with my guardian on the following morning, and Ada was busy writing-of course to Richard—when Miss Jellyby was announced, and entered, leading the identical Peepy, whom she had made some endeavours to render presentable by wiping the dirt into corners of his face and hands and making his hair very wet and then violently frizzling it with her fingers. Everything the dear child wore was either too large for him or too small. Among his other contradictory decorations he had the hat of a bishop and the little gloves of a baby. His boots were, on a small scale, the boots of a ploughman, while his legs, so crossed and recrossed with scratches that they looked like maps, were bare below a very short pair of plaid drawers finished off with two frills of perfectly different patterns. The deficient buttons on his plaid frock had evidently been supplied from one of Mr. Jellyby’s coats, they were so extremely brazen and so much too large. Most extraordinary specimens of needlework appeared on several parts of his dress, where it had been hastily mended, and I recognized the same hand on Miss Jellyby’s. She was, however, unaccountably improved in her appearance and looked very pretty. She was conscious of poor little Peepy being but a failure after all her trouble, and she showed it as she came in by the way in which she glanced first at him and then at us.
第二天早上，我和我的监护人坐在窗边，艾达正忙着写信——当然是写给理查德——这时，杰利比小姐被宣布了，她带着同样的皮皮进来了，她已经尽力通过擦拭来使皮皮变得体面。他把泥土弄到他的脸角和手上，弄湿了他的头发，然后用手指猛烈地卷曲着他的头发。亲爱的孩子穿的所有衣服对他来说要么太大要么太小。在他的其他相互矛盾的装饰中，他有一顶主教的帽子和婴儿的小手套。他的靴子在小范围内是农夫的靴子，而他的腿，交叉着，交叉着，看起来像地图一样，有划痕，一双很短的格子抽屉下面裸露着，抽屉上有两条图案完全不同的褶边。 。他格子连衣裙上有缺陷的纽扣显然是杰利比先生的一件外套补的，它们是如此厚颜无耻，而且太大了。最非凡的针线活品出现在他衣服的几个地方，这些地方是匆忙修补的，我在杰利比小姐的衣服上认出了同一只手。不过，她的容貌却莫名的变好了，看起来非常漂亮。她意识到可怜的小皮皮在经历了这么多麻烦之后还是个失败者，当她进来时，她先看了他一眼，然后又看了我们一眼，就表明了这一点。

‘Oh, dear me!’ said my guardian. ‘Due east!’
“哦，天哪！”我的监护人说。 “正东！”

Ada and I gave her a cordial welcome and presented her to Mr. Jarndyce, to whom she said as she sat down, ‘Ma’s compliments, and she hopes you’ll excuse her, because she’s correcting proofs of the plan. She’s going to put out five thousand new circulars, and she knows you’ll be interested to hear that. I have brought one of them with me. Ma’s compliments.’ With which she presented it sulkily enough.
艾达和我热情地欢迎了她，并将她介绍给贾迪斯先生，她坐下时对贾迪斯先生说：“妈妈的恭维，她希望你能原谅她，因为她正在纠正计划的证据。”她将发布五千份新通告，她知道您会对此感兴趣。我带了其中一张。妈妈的恭维。”她很闷闷不乐地表达了这句话。

‘Thank you,’ said my guardian. ‘I am much obliged to Mrs. Jellyby. Oh, dear me! This is a very trying wind!’
“谢谢你，”我的监护人说。 “我非常感谢杰利比夫人。噢，亲爱的我！这是一股非常难受的风！

We were busy with Peepy, taking off his clerical hat, asking him if he remembered us, and so on. Peepy retired behind his elbow at first, but relented at the sight of sponge-cake and allowed me to take him on my lap, where he sat munching quietly. Mr. Jarndyce then withdrawing into the temporary growlery, Miss Jellyby opened a conversation with her usual abruptness.
我们忙着和皮皮打交道，摘下他的牧师帽子，问他是否还记得我们，等等。皮皮一开始退到肘部后面，但看到海绵蛋糕后态度软化了，允许我把他抱到腿上，他坐在那里静静地咀嚼。贾迪斯先生暂时不再咆哮，杰利比小姐则以她一贯的唐突态度开始了谈话。

‘We are going on just as bad as ever in Thavies Inn,’ said she. ‘I have no peace of my life. Talk of Africa! I couldn’t be worse off if I was a what’s-his-name—man and a brother!’
“我们在塔维斯旅馆的情况一如既往地糟糕，”她说。 ‘我的生活没有平安。谈论非洲！如果我是一个男人和兄弟，我的处境就不会更糟了！

I tried to say something soothing.
我试图说一些安慰的话。

‘Oh, it’s of no use, Miss Summerson,’ exclaimed Miss Jellyby, ‘though I thank you for the kind intention all the same. I know how I am used, and I am not to be talked over. YOU wouldn’t be talked over if you were used so. Peepy, go and play at Wild Beasts under the piano!’
“哦，这没有用，萨默森小姐，”杰利比小姐惊呼道，“不过我还是感谢你的好意。我知道我是如何被利用的，我不应该被人谈论。如果你被这样利用，你就不会被谈论。皮比，去《野兽》钢琴下弹奏吧！

‘I shan’t!’ said Peepy.
“我不会！”皮比说。

‘Very well, you ungrateful, naughty, hard-hearted boy!’ returned Miss Jellyby with tears in her eyes. ‘I’ll never take pains to dress you any more.’
“很好，你这个忘恩负义、顽皮、铁石心肠的孩子！”杰利比小姐眼里含着泪水回答道。 “我再也不会费尽心思为你穿衣服了。”

‘Yes, I will go, Caddy!’ cried Peepy, who was really a good child and who was so moved by his sister’s vexation that he went at once.
“是的，我要去，凯迪！”皮比喊道，他真是个好孩子，被妹妹的烦恼感动了，立刻就去了。

‘It seems a little thing to cry about,’ said poor Miss Jellyby apologetically, ‘but I am quite worn out. I was directing the new circulars till two this morning. I detest the whole thing so that that alone makes my head ache till I can’t see out of my eyes. And look at that poor unfortunate child! Was there ever such a fright as he is!’
“这似乎是一件值得哭泣的小事，”可怜的杰利比小姐抱歉地说，“但我已经很累了。我一直在指导新的通告直到今天凌晨两点。我讨厌这整件事，光是这一点就让我头疼，直到我的眼睛看不见了。看看那个可怜的不幸的孩子！曾经有过像他这样可怕的事情吗！

Peepy, happily unconscious of the defects in his appearance, sat on the carpet behind one of the legs of the piano, looking calmly out of his den at us while he ate his cake.
皮比高兴地没有意识到自己外表上的缺陷，坐在钢琴腿后面的地毯上，一边吃蛋糕，一边平静地看着我们。

‘I have sent him to the other end of the room,’ observed Miss Jellyby, drawing her chair nearer ours, ‘because I don’t want him to hear the conversation. Those little things are so sharp! I was going to say, we really are going on worse than ever. Pa will be a bankrupt before long, and then I hope Ma will be satisfied. There’ll he nobody but Ma to thank for it.’
“我把他送到了房间的另一端，”杰利比小姐说，把她的椅子拉近我们的，“因为我不想让他听到我们的谈话。这些小东西太锋利了！我想说，我们的情况确实比以往任何时候都更糟。爸爸不久就会破产，到时候我希望妈妈能满意。为此，除了妈妈，他没有人要感谢。

We said we hoped Mr. Jellyby’s affairs were not in so bad a state as that.
我们说希望杰利比先生的事情不要发展到那么糟糕的地步。

‘It’s of no use hoping, though it’s very kind of you,’ returned Miss Jellyby, shaking her head. ‘Pa told me only yesterday morning (and dreadfully unhappy he is) that he couldn’t weather the storm. I should be surprised if he could. When all our tradesmen send into our house any stuff they like, and the servants do what they like with it, and I have no time to improve things if I knew how, and Ma don’t care about anything, I should like to make out how Pa is to weather the storm. I declare if I was Pa, I’d run away.’
“虽然你太好了，但希望是没有用的。”杰利比小姐摇着头回答道。 “爸爸昨天早上才告诉我（他非常不高兴），他无法度过这场风暴。如果他能做到的话我应该感到惊讶。当我们所有的商人都把他们喜欢的任何东西送到我们家，仆人们用它们做他们喜欢做的事，而我没有时间去改进东西，如果我知道如何，而妈妈不关心任何事情，我想做看看爸爸如何度过这场风暴。我声明，如果我是爸爸，我就会逃跑。

‘My dear!’ said I, smiling. ‘Your papa, no doubt, considers his family.’
“亲爱的！”我微笑着说道。 “毫无疑问，你的爸爸会考虑他的家人。”

‘Oh, yes, his family is all very fine, Miss Summerson,’ replied Miss Jellyby; ‘but what comfort is his family to him? His family is nothing but bills, dirt, waste, noise, tumbles downstairs, confusion, and wretchedness. His scrambling home, from week’s end to week’s end, is like one great washing-day—only nothing’s washed!’
“哦，是的，萨默森小姐，他的家人都很好，”杰利比小姐回答道。 “但是他的家人对他来说有什么安慰呢？他的家庭只剩下账单、污垢、浪费、噪音、从楼上摔下来、混乱和不幸。他从一个周末到另一个周末，争先恐后地回家，就像一个伟大的洗涤日——只是什么也没洗！

Miss Jellyby tapped her foot upon the floor and wiped her eyes.
杰利比小姐用脚轻敲地板，擦了擦眼睛。

‘I am sure I pity Pa to that degree,’ she said, ‘and am so angry with Ma that I can’t find words to express myself! However, I am not going to bear it, I am determined. I won’t be a slave all my life, and I won’t submit to be proposed to by Mr. Quale. A pretty thing, indeed, to marry a philanthropist. As if I hadn’t had enough of THAT!’ said poor Miss Jellyby.
“我确信我对爸爸的怜悯达到了那种程度，”她说，“而且对妈妈很生气，我找不到语言来表达自己！但是，我不会忍受，我已经决定了。我不会做一辈子的奴隶，也不会屈服于奎尔先生的求婚。嫁给一位慈善家确实是一件好事。好像我还没有受够似的！”可怜的杰利比小姐说道。

I must confess that I could not help feeling rather angry with Mrs. Jellyby myself, seeing and hearing this neglected girl and knowing how much of bitterly satirical truth there was in what she said.
我必须承认，我自己不禁对杰利比夫人感到相当生气，因为我看到和听到了这个被忽视的女孩，知道她所说的话中有多少辛酸讽刺的真理。

‘If it wasn’t that we had been intimate when you stopped at our house,’ pursued Miss Jellyby, ‘I should have been ashamed to come here to-day, for I know what a figure I must seem to you two. But as it is, I made up my mind to call, especially as I am not likely to see you again the next time you come to town.’
“如果不是你们来我们家时我们关系很亲密，”杰利比小姐继续说道，“今天我会为来到这里感到羞愧，因为我知道在你们两个看来，我一定是一个多么重要的人物。但事实上，我决定打电话，特别是当你下次进城时我不太可能再见到你。

She said this with such great significance that Ada and I glanced at one another, foreseeing something more.
她说的这句话意义重大，艾达和我互相看了一眼，预见到了更多的事情。

‘No!’ said Miss Jellyby, shaking her head. ‘Not at all likely! I know I may trust you two. I am sure you won’t betray me. I am engaged.’
“不！”杰利比小姐摇着头说道。 ‘根本不可能！我知道我可以信任你们两个。我确信你不会背叛我。我已经订婚了。'

‘Without their knowledge at home?’ said I.
“家里人不知情吗？”我说。

‘Why, good gracious me, Miss Summerson,’ she returned, justifying herself in a fretful but not angry manner, ‘how can it be otherwise? You know what Ma is—and I needn’t make poor Pa more miserable by telling HIM.’
“哎呀，天哪，萨默森小姐，”她回答道，用一种烦躁但并不生气的方式为自己辩解，“不然怎么可能呢？你知道妈妈是什么——我不必告诉他让可怜的爸爸更加痛苦。

‘But would it not he adding to his unhappiness to marry without his knowledge or consent, my dear?’ said I.
“但是，亲爱的，在他不知情或未经他同意的情况下结婚，这不是会增加他的不幸吗？”我说。

‘No,’ said Miss Jellyby, softening. ‘“I hope not. I should try to make him happy and comfortable when he came to see me, and Peepy and the others should take it in turns to come and stay with me, and they should have some care taken of them then.’
“不，”杰利比小姐语气软化了。 '“我希望不是。当他来看我时，我应该尽力让他感到高兴和舒服，皮比和其他人应该轮流来和我呆在一起，然后他们应该得到一些照顾。

There was a good deal of affection in poor Caddy. She softened more and more while saying this and cried so much over the unwonted little home-picture she had raised in her mind that Peepy, in his cave under the piano, was touched, and turned himself over on his back with loud lamentations. It was not until I had brought him to kiss his sister, and had restored him to his place on my lap, and had shown him that Caddy was laughing (she laughed expressly for the purpose), that we could recall his peace of mind; even then it was for some time conditional on his taking us in turns by the chin and smoothing our faces all over with his hand. At last, as his spirits were not equal to the piano, we put him on a chair to look out of window; and Miss Jellyby, holding him by one leg, resumed her confidence.
可怜的凯迪身上充满了浓浓的感情。说这句话的时候，她的语气越来越软化，她为脑海中浮现的那幅不寻常的小家庭照片哭得如此之多，以至于皮皮在钢琴下的洞穴里被触动了，翻了个身，大声哀叹。直到我带他去亲吻他的妹妹，让他回到我腿上的位置，并向他展示凯迪在笑（她笑的目的是明确的），我们才能回忆起他内心的平静；即便如此，有一段时间，他还是需要他轮流捏着我们的下巴，用手抚平我们的脸。最后，由于他的精神不如钢琴，我们把他放在椅子上看窗外；杰利比小姐抓住他的一条腿，恢复了自信。

‘It began in your coming to our house,’ she said.
“一切都是从你来到我们家开始的，”她说。

We naturally asked how.
我们很自然地问如何。

‘I felt I was so awkward,’ she replied, ‘that I made up my mind to be improved in that respect at all events and to learn to dance. I told Ma I was ashamed of myself, and I must be taught to dance. Ma looked at me in that provoking way of hers as if I wasn’t in sight, but I was quite determined to be taught to dance, and so I went to Mr. Turveydrop’s Academy in Newman Street.’
“我觉得自己太笨拙了，”她回答道，“所以我下定决心无论如何都要在这方面有所提高，并学习跳舞。”我告诉妈妈我为自己感到羞耻，必须教我跳舞。妈妈用她那种挑衅的方式看着我，就好像我不在场一样，但我决心要学跳舞，所以我去了纽曼街的特维德罗普先生的学院。

‘And was it there, my dear—‘ I began.
“是不是就在那里，亲爱的——”我开始说道。

‘Yes, it was there,’ said Caddy, ‘and I am engaged to Mr. Turveydrop. There are two Mr. Turveydrops, father and son. My Mr. Turveydrop is the son, of course. I only wish I had been better brought up and was likely to make him a better wife, for I am very fond of him.’
“是的，就在那里，”凯迪说，“我和特维德罗普先生订婚了。”特维德罗先生有两个人，父亲和儿子。当然，我的特维德罗普先生是我的儿子。我只希望我能受到更好的教育，并可能让他成为一个更好的妻子，因为我非常喜欢他。

‘I am sorry to hear this,’ said I, ‘I must confess.’
“听到这个消息我很难过，”我说，“我必须承认。”

‘I don’t know why you should be sorry,’ she retorted a little anxiously, ‘but I am engaged to Mr. Turveydrop, whether or no, and he is very fond of me. It’s a secret as yet, even on his side, because old Mr. Turveydrop has a share in the connexion and it might break his heart or give him some other shock if he was told of it abruptly. Old Mr. Turveydrop is a very gentlemanly man indeed—very gentlemanly.’
“我不知道你为什么要感到抱歉，”她有点焦急地反驳道，“但不管是否，我已经和特维德罗普先生订婚了，而且他非常喜欢我。”即使对他来说，这仍然是一个秘密，因为老特维德罗普先生也参与其中，如果突然告诉他这件事，他可能会心碎或给他带来其他震惊。老特维德罗普先生确实是一位非常有绅士风度的人——非常有绅士风度。

‘Does his wife know of it?’ asked Ada.
“他的妻子知道这件事吗？”艾达问道。

‘Old Mr. Turveydrop’s wife, Miss Clare?’ returned Miss Jellyby, opening her eyes. ‘There’s no such person. He is a widower.’
“老特维德罗普先生的妻子克莱尔小姐？”杰利比小姐睁开眼睛回答道。 ‘没有这样的人。他是个鳏夫。

We were here interrupted by Peepy, whose leg had undergone so much on account of his sister’s unconsciously jerking it like a bellrope whenever she was emphatic that the afflicted child now bemoaned his sufferings with a very low-spirited noise. As he appealed to me for compassion, and as I was only a listener, I undertook to hold him. Miss Jellyby proceeded, after begging Peepy’s pardon with a kiss and assuring him that she hadn’t meant to do it.
我们在这里被皮比打断了，他的腿已经受了很多伤，因为每当他姐姐强调这个受苦的孩子现在用一种非常低落的声音哀叹他的痛苦时，他的妹妹就会像拉铃绳一样无意识地猛拉它。当他请求我同情时，而我只是一个倾听者，我决定抓住他。杰利比小姐用吻请求皮皮原谅并向他保证她不是故意的，然后继续说道。

‘That’s the state of the case,’ said Caddy. ‘If I ever blame myself, I still think it’s Ma’s fault. We are to be married whenever we can, and then I shall go to Pa at the office and write to Ma. It won’t much agitate Ma; I am only pen and ink to HER. One great comfort is,’ said Caddy with a sob, ‘that I shall never hear of Africa after I am married. Young Mr. Turveydrop hates it for my sake, and if old Mr. Turveydrop knows there is such a place, it’s as much as he does.’
“事情就是这样，”凯迪说。 “如果我责怪自己，我仍然认为这是妈妈的错。只要有可能，我们就结婚，然后我去爸爸办公室给妈妈写信。这不会让妈妈太焦躁。我对她来说只是笔和墨水。最大的安慰是，”卡迪抽泣着说，“结婚后我再也不会听说非洲了。年轻的特维德罗普先生为了我而讨厌它，如果老特维德罗普先生知道有这样一个地方，那也和他一样。

‘It was he who was very gentlemanly, I think!’ said I.
“我认为他很有绅士风度！”我说道。

‘Very gentlemanly indeed,’ said Caddy. ‘He is celebrated almost everywhere for his deportment.’
“确实很有绅士风度，”凯迪说。 “他几乎在任何地方都因其举止而受到赞扬。”

‘Does he teach?’ asked Ada.
“他教书吗？”艾达问。

‘No, he don’t teach anything in particular,’ replied Caddy. ‘But his deportment is beautiful.’
“不，他没有教任何特别的东西，”凯迪回答道。 “但他的举止很漂亮。”

Caddy went on to say with considerable hesitation and reluctance that there was one thing more she wished us to know, and felt we ought to know, and which she hoped would not offend us. It was that she had improved her acquaintance with Miss Flite, the little crazy old lady, and that she frequently went there early in the morning and met her lover for a few minutes before breakfast—only for a few minutes. ‘I go there at other times,’ said Caddy, ‘but Prince does not come then. Young Mr. Turveydrop’s name is Prince; I wish it wasn’t, because it sounds like a dog, but of course be didn’t christen himself. Old Mr. Turveydrop had him christened Prince in remembrance of the Prince Regent. Old Mr. Turveydrop adored the Prince Regent on account of his deportment. I hope you won’t think the worse of me for having made these little appointments at Miss Flite’s, where I first went with you, because I like the poor thing for her own sake and I believe she likes me. If you could see young Mr. Turveydrop, I am sure you would think well of him—at least, I am sure you couldn’t possibly think any ill of him. I am going there now for my lesson. I couldn’t ask you to go with me, Miss Summerson; but if you would,’ said Caddy, who had said all this earnestly and tremblingly, ‘I should be very glad—very glad.’
凯迪接着相当犹豫和不情愿地说道，她还有一件事希望我们知道，并且觉得我们应该知道，她希望这件事不会冒犯我们。而是她和弗利特小姐这个小疯老太太的熟识加深了，她经常一大早就去那里，在早餐前见见她的爱人几分钟——只有几分钟。 “我其他时候也去那里，”凯迪说，“但普林斯那时不来。年轻的特维德罗普先生的名字是普林斯；我希望不是，因为它听起来像一只狗，但当然他并没有给自己取名。老特维德罗普先生为他命名为王子，以纪念摄政王。老特维德罗普先生因摄政王的举止而十分崇拜他。我希望你不会因为在弗利特小姐那里做了这些小约会而对我产生更坏的看法，我第一次和你一起去的地方，因为我喜欢这个可怜的东西，因为她本身，我相信她也喜欢我。如果你能见到年轻的特维德罗普先生，我相信你会对他有好感——至少，我相信你不可能对他有任何不好的看法。我现在要去那里上课。我不能请你跟我一起去，萨默森小姐；但如果你愿意，”凯迪说道，他诚挚而颤抖地说道，“我会非常高兴——非常高兴。”

It happened that we had arranged with my guardian to go to Miss Flite’s that day. We had told him of our former visit, and our account had interested him; but something had always happened to prevent our going there again. As I trusted that I might have sufficient influence with Miss Jellyby to prevent her taking any very rash step if I fully accepted the confidence she was so willing to place in me, poor girl, I proposed that she and I and Peepy should go to the academy and afterwards meet my guardian and Ada at Miss Flite’s, whose name I now learnt for the first time. This was on condition that Miss Jellyby and Peepy should come back with us to dinner. The last article of the agreement being joyfully acceded to by both, we smartened Peepy up a little with the assistance of a few pins, some soap and water, and a hairbrush, and went out, bending our steps towards Newman Street, which was very near.
碰巧我们和监护人约好那天去弗利特小姐家。我们已经告诉他我们上次来访的事，他对我们的叙述很感兴趣。但总会发生一些事情阻止我们再次去那里。因为我相信，如果我完全接受她对我这个可怜的女孩如此愿意的信任，我可能对杰利比小姐有足够的影响力，以防止她采取任何非常鲁莽的步骤，所以我建议她和我以及皮比应该去学院，然后在弗利特小姐那里见到了我的监护人和艾达，我现在第一次知道她的名字。条件是 Jellyby 小姐和 Peepy 应该回来和我们一起吃晚饭。双方都高兴地同意了协议的最后一条，我们用几根别针、一些肥皂、水和一把发刷，把皮比弄得精神了一点，然后出去，弯着脚步走向纽曼街，这条街非常漂亮。靠近。

I found the academy established in a sufficiently dingy house at the corner of an archway, with busts in all the staircase windows. In the same house there were also established, as I gathered from the plates on the door, a drawing-master, a coal-merchant (there was, certainly, no room for his coals), and a lithographic artist. On the plate which, in size and situation, took precedence of all the rest, I read, MR. TURVEYDROP. The door was open, and the hall was blocked up by a grand piano, a harp, and several other musical instruments in cases, all in progress of removal, and all looking rakish in the daylight. Miss Jellyby informed me that the academy had been lent, last night, for a concert.
我发现学院建在一座拱门拐角处的一栋相当肮脏的房子里，所有楼梯的窗户上都有半身像。据我从门上的铭牌得知，同一所房子里还有一位绘画大师、一位煤炭商人（当然，没有地方放他的煤炭）和一位平版艺术家。在尺寸和位置都优先于其他所有的盘子上，我读到，先生。特维德罗普。门开着，大厅里堆满了一架大钢琴、一架竖琴和其他几件乐器，都装在箱子里，都在搬走，在白天看起来很潇洒。杰利比小姐告诉我，昨晚学院已被借用举办一场音乐会。

We went upstairs—it had been quite a fine house once, when it was anybody’s business to keep it clean and fresh, and nobody’s business to smoke in it all day—and into Mr. Turveydrop’s great room, which was built out into a mews at the back and was lighted by a skylight. It was a bare, resounding room smelling of stables, with cane forms along the walls, and the walls ornamented at regular intervals with painted lyres and little cut-glass branches for candles, which seemed to be shedding their old-fashioned drops as other branches might shed autumn leaves. Several young lady pupils, ranging from thirteen or fourteen years of age to two or three and twenty, were assembled; and I was looking among them for their instructor when Caddy, pinching my arm, repeated the ceremony of introduction. ‘Miss Summerson, Mr. Prince Turveydrop!’
我们上楼——它曾经是一栋相当不错的房子，当时任何人都有权保持它干净整洁，没有人有权整天在里面抽烟——走进特维德罗普先生的大房间，它被改造成马厩。在后面，被天窗照亮。这是一间光秃秃的、响亮的房间，散发着马厩的气味，墙壁上挂满了藤条，墙壁上每隔一段距离就装饰着彩绘七弦琴和插蜡烛的小刻花玻璃树枝，这些树枝似乎正在像其他树枝一样掉落着老式的水滴。可能会落下秋天的落叶。聚集了几个年轻的女学生，年龄从十三岁、十四岁到二三岁、二十岁不等。当我在他们中间寻找他们的教练时，卡迪捏着我的手臂，重复了介绍的仪式。 “萨默森小姐，特维德罗普王子先生！”

I curtsied to a little blue-eyed fair man of youthful appearance with flaxen hair parted in the middle and curling at the ends all round his head. He had a little fiddle, which we used to call at school a kit, under his left arm, and its little bow in the same hand. His little dancing-shoes were particularly diminutive, and he had a little innocent, feminine manner which not only appealed to me in an amiable way, but made this singular effect upon me, that I received the impression that he was like his mother and that his mother had not been much considered or well used.
我向一位身材矮小、蓝眼睛的金发男子行了屈膝礼，他看上去很年轻，亚麻色的头发中分，发尾卷曲在头上。他的左腋下夹着一把小小提琴，我们在学校里把它称为工具包，同一只手里拿着它的小弓。他的小舞鞋特别小，他有一种天真的、女性化的举止，这不仅以一种和蔼可亲的方式吸引了我，而且给我带来了一种奇特的效果，我觉得他就像他的母亲，而且他的母亲没有得到太多考虑或充分利用。

‘I am very happy to see Miss Jellyby’s friend,’ he said, bowing low to me. ‘I began to fear,’ with timid tenderness, ‘as it was past the usual time, that Miss Jellyby was not coming.’
“我很高兴见到杰利比小姐的朋友，”他说道，向我深深鞠了一躬。 “我开始担心，”带着胆怯的温柔，“因为已经过了通常的时间，杰利比小姐不会来了。”

‘I beg you will have the goodness to attribute that to me, who have detained her, and to receive my excuses, sir,’ said I.
“先生，请您将此事归咎于我，是我拘留了她，并接受我的借口，”我说道。

‘Oh, dear!’ said he.
“哦，亲爱的！”他说。

‘And pray,’ I entreated, ‘do not allow me to be the cause of any more delay.’
“请祈祷，”我恳求道，“不要让我再造成任何延误。”

With that apology I withdrew to a seat between Peepy (who, being well used to it, had already climbed into a corner place) and an old lady of a censorious countenance whose two nieces were in the class and who was very indignant with Peepy’s boots. Prince Turveydrop then tinkled the strings of his kit with his fingers, and the young ladies stood up to dance. Just then there appeared from a side-door old Mr. Turveydrop, in the full lustre of his deportment.
带着歉意，我退到了皮皮（皮皮已经习惯了，已经爬到角落里了）和一位面容挑剔的老太太之间的座位上，她的两个侄女也在班上，她对皮皮的靴子非常愤慨。 。特维德罗普王子随后用手指敲响了他的乐器的琴弦，年轻的女士们站起来跳舞。就在这时，一位老特维德罗普先生从侧门出现了，他的举止十分光彩照人。

He was a fat old gentleman with a false complexion, false teeth, false whiskers, and a wig. He had a fur collar, and he had a padded breast to his coat, which only wanted a star or a broad blue ribbon to be complete. He was pinched in, and swelled out, and got up, and strapped down, as much as he could possibly bear. He had such a neckcloth on (puffing his very eyes out of their natural shape), and his chin and even his ears so sunk into it, that it seemed as though be must inevitably double up if it were cast loose. He had under his arm a hat of great size and weight, shelving downward from the crown to the brim, and in his hand a pair of white gloves with which he flapped it as he stood poised on one leg in a high-shouldered, round-elbowed state of elegance not to be surpassed. He had a cane, he had an eye-glass, he had a snuff-box, he had rings, he had wristbands, he had everything but any touch of nature; he was not like youth, he was not like age, he was not like anything in the world but a model of deportment.
他是一位肥胖的老绅士，有着假肤色、假牙齿、假胡须、戴着假发。他有一个毛领，他的外套上有一个垫胸，只需要一颗星星或一条宽阔的蓝色丝带就可以完成。他被捏住，又膨胀，然后站起来，又被绑起来，尽他所能承受。他戴着一条领巾（把他的眼睛都撑得变形了），他的下巴，甚至他的耳朵都深深地陷进了领巾里，如果它松了，似乎必然会卷起来。他腋下夹着一顶又大又重的帽子，从帽顶一直垂到帽檐，手里拿着一双白手套，当他单腿站立、穿着高肩圆帽时，他挥舞着手套。 - 无与伦比的优雅状态。他有拐杖，他有眼镜，他有鼻烟盒，他有戒指，他有腕带，他什么都有，就是没有一丝自然的触感；他不像年轻人，不像年龄，他不像世界上的任何东西，而是举止的典范。

‘Father! A visitor. Miss Jellyby’s friend, Miss Summerson.’
'父亲！一位访客。杰利比小姐的朋友萨默森小姐。

‘Distinguished,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, ‘by Miss Summerson’s presence.’ As he bowed to me in that tight state, I almost believe I saw creases come into the whites of his eyes.
“尊敬的，”特维德罗普先生说道，“萨默森小姐的光临。”当他在那种紧张的状态下向我鞠躬时，我几乎相信我看到了他眼白中的皱纹。

‘My father,’ said the son, aside, to me with quite an affecting belief in him, ‘is a celebrated character. My father is greatly admired.’
“我的父亲，”一旁的儿子对我说，对他充满信心，“是一位著名的人物。”我的父亲非常受人钦佩。

‘Go on, Prince! Go on!’ said Mr. Turveydrop, standing with his back to the fire and waving his gloves condescendingly. ‘Go on, my son!’
‘继续吧，王子！继续！”特维德罗普先生背对着火站着，居高临下地挥舞着手套。 “继续吧，我的儿子！”

At this command, or by this gracious permission, the lesson went on. Prince Turveydrop sometimes played the kit, dancing; sometimes played the piano, standing; sometimes hummed the tune with what little breath he could spare, while he set a pupil right; always conscientiously moved with the least proficient through every step and every part of the figure; and never rested for an instant. His distinguished father did nothing whatever but stand before the fire, a model of deportment.
在这个命令下，或者在这个仁慈的许可下，课程继续进行。特维德罗普王子有时会演奏该套件并跳舞。有时站着弹钢琴；有时，他会一边哼着曲子一边纠正学生。总是认真地以最不熟练的方式完成人物的每一步和每一个部分；一刻也没有休息过。他尊贵的父亲什么也没做，只是站在火堆前，堪称举止的典范。

‘And he never does anything else,’ said the old lady of the censorious countenance. ‘Yet would you believe that it’s HIS name on the door-plate?’
“而且他从来不做别的事，”老太太满脸挑剔地说。 “但是你相信门牌上写的是他的名字吗？”

‘His son’s name is the same, you know,’ said I.
“你知道，他儿子的名字是一样的，”我说。

‘He wouldn’t let his son have any name if he could take it from him,’ returned the old lady. ‘Look at the son’s dress!’ It certainly was plain—threadbare—almost shabby. ‘Yet the father must be garnished and tricked out,’ said the old lady, ‘because of his deportment. I’d deport him! Transport him would be better!’
“如果他能夺走他儿子的名字，他就不会让他有任何名字。”老太太回答道。 “看看儿子的衣服！”它确实很朴素——破旧——几乎破旧。 “然而，父亲必须受到装饰和欺骗，”老太太说，“因为他的举止。”我会驱逐他！运送他会更好！

I felt curious to know more concerning this person. I asked, ‘Does he give lessons in deportment now?’
我很想了解更多关于这个人的信息。我问：“他现在教礼仪课吗？”

‘Now!’ returned the old lady shortly. ‘Never did.’
“现在！”老太太很快回答道。 '从不做。'

After a moment’s consideration, I suggested that perhaps fencing had been his accomplishment.
经过片刻的考虑，我提出也许击剑是他的成就。

‘I don’t believe he can fence at all, ma’am,’ said the old lady.
“我不相信他根本不会击剑，女士，”老太太说。

I looked surprised and inquisitive. The old lady, becoming more and more incensed against the master of deportment as she dwelt upon the subject, gave me some particulars of his career, with strong assurances that they were mildly stated.
我看上去既惊讶又好奇。老太太在谈论这个话题时，对这位举止大师越来越恼火，她向我讲述了他职业生涯的一些细节，并强烈保证这些内容是温和叙述的。

He had married a meek little dancing-mistress, with a tolerable connexion (having never in his life before done anything but deport himself), and had worked her to death, or had, at the best, suffered her to work herself to death, to maintain him in those expenses which were indispensable to his position. At once to exhibit his deportment to the best models and to keep the best models constantly before himself, he had found it necessary to frequent all public places of fashionable and lounging resort, to be seen at Brighton and elsewhere at fashionable times, and to lead an idle life in the very best clothes. To enable him to do this, the affectionate little dancing-mistress had toiled and laboured and would have toiled and laboured to that hour if her strength had lasted so long. For the mainspring of the story was that in spite of the man’s absorbing selfishness, his wife (overpowered by his deportment) had, to the last, believed in him and had, on her death-bed, in the most moving terms, confided him to their son as one who had an inextinguishable claim upon him and whom he could never regard with too much pride and deference. The son, inheriting his mother’s belief, and having the deportment always before him, had lived and grown in the same faith, and now, at thirty years of age, worked for his father twelve hours a day and looked up to him with veneration on the old imaginary pinnacle.
他娶了一位温顺的小舞女，关系还算可以（他这辈子除了放逐自己之外，从来没有做过任何事），并且把她干活到死，或者充其量也让她把自己干死，维持他的职位所必需的开支。为了立即向最好的模特展示自己的举止，并让最好的模特不断出现在自己面前，他发现有必要经常光顾时尚休闲胜地的所有公共场所，在时尚时期出现在布莱顿和其他地方，并领导穿着最好的衣服过着闲散的生活。为了让他做到这一点，这位深情的小舞女已经辛苦了，如果她的力量能持续这么久的话，她一定会一直辛苦到那个时刻。因为这个故事的主旨是，尽管这个男人极其自私，但他的妻子（被他的举止压倒了）直到最后仍然相信他，并在临终前用最感人的语言向他吐露了心声。对他们的儿子来说，他对他有着不可磨灭的权利，他永远不会对他抱有太多的骄傲和尊重。儿子继承了母亲的信仰，始终以同样的信仰生活和成长，现在已经三十岁了，每天为父亲工作十二个小时，并以崇敬的目光仰望着他。旧的想象的顶峰。

‘The airs the fellow gives himself!’ said my informant, shaking her head at old Mr. Turveydrop with speechless indignation as he drew on his tight gloves, of course unconscious of the homage she was rendering. ‘He fully believes he is one of the aristocracy! And he is so condescending to the son he so egregiously deludes that you might suppose him the most virtuous of parents. Oh!’ said the old lady, apostrophizing him with infinite vehemence. ‘I could bite you!’
“这家伙摆出一副架子！”我的线人说道，当特维德罗普老先生戴上他的紧身手套时，她气愤地摇着头，当然没有意识到她正在表达敬意。 ‘他完全相信自己是贵族之一！他对儿子如此居高临下，他如此令人震惊地欺骗，以至于你可能会认为他是最有德行的父母。噢！”老太太说道，语气极其激烈地撇撇嘴。 “我可以咬你！”

I could not help being amused, though I heard the old lady out with feelings of real concern. It was difficult to doubt her with the father and son before me. What I might have thought of them without the old lady’s account, or what I might have thought of the old lady’s account without them, I cannot say. There was a fitness of things in the whole that carried conviction with it.
我不禁觉得好笑，虽然我听老太太说完的时候心里还是很关心的。和眼前这对父子一起，很难怀疑她。如果没有老太太的叙述，我可能会对他们有什么想法，或者如果没有他们，我可能会对老太太的叙述有什么想法，我不能说。整体上事物的契合度令人信服。

My eyes were yet wandering, from young Mr. Turveydrop working so hard, to old Mr. Turveydrop deporting himself so beautifully, when the latter came ambling up to me and entered into conversation.
我的目光一直在徘徊，从年轻的特维德罗普先生如此努力地工作，到老特维德罗普先生表现得如此美丽，当后者慢悠悠地走到我面前并开始交谈时。

He asked me, first of all, whether I conferred a charm and a distinction on London by residing in it? I did not think it necessary to reply that I was perfectly aware I should not do that, in any case, but merely told him where I did reside.
他首先问我，居住在伦敦是否给伦敦带来了魅力和区别？我认为没有必要回答说我完全知道无论如何我不应该这样做，而只是告诉他我住在哪里。

‘A lady so graceful and accomplished,’ he said, kissing his right glove and afterwards extending it towards the pupils, ‘will look leniently on the deficiencies here. We do our best to polish— polish—polish!’
“一位如此优雅和多才多艺的女士，”他一边说，一边亲吻他的右手手套，然后将其伸向学生，“她会宽容地看待这里的缺陷。”我们尽最大努力打磨——打磨——打磨！”

He sat down beside me, taking some pains to sit on the form. I thought, in imitation of the print of his illustrious model on the sofa. And really he did look very like it.
他在我旁边坐下，费了一番功夫才坐在表格上。我想，是在模仿他沙发上著名模特的印花。事实上，他看起来确实很像。

‘To polish—polish—polish!’ he repeated, taking a pinch of snuff and gently fluttering his fingers. ‘But we are not, if I may say so to one formed to be graceful both by Nature and Art—‘ with the high-shouldered bow, which it seemed impossible for him to make without lifting up his eyebrows and shutting his eyes ‘—we are not what we used to be in point of deportment.’
“擦亮——擦亮——擦亮！”他重复道，吸了一口鼻烟，轻轻地晃动着手指。 “但我们不是，如果我可以这样说，对一个天生优雅的人来说——”高肩鞠躬，他似乎不可能不扬起眉毛并闭上眼睛”——从行为举止来看，我们已经不再是以前的我们了。

‘Are we not, sir?’ said I.
“我们不是吗，先生？”我说。

‘We have degenerated,’ he returned, shaking his head, which he could do to a very limited extent in his cravat. ‘A levelling age is not favourable to deportment. It develops vulgarity. Perhaps I speak with some little partiality. It may not be for me to say that I have been called, for some years now, Gentleman Turveydrop, or that his Royal Highness the Prince Regent did me the honour to inquire, on my removing my hat as he drove out of the Pavilion at Brighton (that fine building), ‘Who is he? Who the devil is he? Why don’t I know him? Why hasn’t he thirty thousand a year?’ But these are little matters of anecdote—the general property, ma’am— still repeated occasionally among the upper classes.’
“我们已经堕落了，”他摇着头回答道，但他在领带中所能做到的程度非常有限。 ‘平衡年龄不利于行为举止。它发展粗俗。也许我说话有些偏颇。我可能不会说，多年来我一直被称为特维德罗普先生，或者摄政王殿下有幸在他开车离开展馆时摘下帽子时向我询问。布莱顿（那栋精美的建筑），“他是谁？他到底是谁啊？我为什么不认识他？为什么他每年没有三万块钱呢？”但是，这些都是轶事——一般财产，女士——仍然偶尔在上层阶级中重述。”

‘Indeed?’ said I.
“真的吗？”我说。

He replied with the high-shouldered bow. ‘Where what is left among us of deportment,’ he added, ‘still lingers. England—alas, my country!—has degenerated very much, and is degenerating every day. She has not many gentlemen left. We are few. I see nothing to succeed us but a race of weavers.’
他以高肩鞠躬作为回应。他补充道，“我们身上残留的风度仍然存在。”英国——唉，我的国家！——已经堕落得很厉害，而且每天都在堕落。她身边的绅士已经不多了。我们人少。我认为除了织布工种族之外，没有什么可以取代我们。”

‘One might hope that the race of gentlemen would be perpetuated here,’ said I.
“人们可能希望绅士种族能够在这里延续下去，”我说。

‘You are very good.’ He smiled with a high-shouldered bow again. ‘You flatter me. But, no—no! I have never been able to imbue my poor boy with that part of his art. Heaven forbid that I should disparage my dear child, but he has—no deportment.’
“你很好。”他再次微笑，高肩鞠躬。 ‘你太奉承我了。但是，不——不！我从来没能向我可怜的孩子灌输他那部分艺术。老天爷不允许我贬低我亲爱的孩子，但他却——没有任何举止。”

‘He appears to be an excellent master,’ I observed.
“他看起来是一位出色的大师，”我评论道。

‘Understand me, my dear madam, he IS an excellent master. All that can be acquired, he has acquired. All that can be imparted, he can impart. But there ARE things—‘ He took another pinch of snuff and made the bow again, as if to add, ‘This kind of thing, for instance.’
“理解我，亲爱的女士，他是一位出色的主人。能得到的，他都得到了。一切能传授的，他都能传授。但确实有一些东西——”他又吸了一口鼻烟，再次鞠了一躬，好像是在补充，“比如这种东西。”

I glanced towards the centre of the room, where Miss Jellyby’s lover, now engaged with single pupils, was undergoing greater drudgery than ever.
我朝房间中央看了一眼，杰利比小姐的情人现在正在那里，正在忙着比以往任何时候都更加苦差事。

‘My amiable child,’ murmured Mr. Turveydrop, adjusting his cravat.
“我可爱的孩子，”特维德罗普先生一边低声说道，一边整理着领带。

‘Your son is indefatigable,’ said I.
“你的儿子不知疲倦，”我说。

‘It is my reward,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, ‘to hear you say so. In some respects, he treads in the footsteps of his sainted mother. She was a devoted creature. But wooman, lovely wooman,’ said Mr. Turveydrop with very disagreeable gallantry, ‘what a sex you are!’
“听到你这么说，”特维德罗普先生说，“这是我的奖励。”在某些方面，他追随了他神圣母亲的脚步。她是一个忠诚的人。但是，女人，可爱的女人，”特维德罗普先生用令人不快的殷勤说道，“你真是个性别啊！”

I rose and joined Miss Jellyby, who was by this time putting on her bonnet. The time allotted to a lesson having fully elapsed, there was a general putting on of bonnets. When Miss Jellyby and the unfortunate Prince found an opportunity to become betrothed I don’t know, but they certainly found none on this occasion to exchange a dozen words.
我站起来，走到杰利比小姐身边，她此时已经戴上了帽子。一节课的时间已经过去了，大家都戴上了帽子。我不知道杰利比小姐和不幸的王子什么时候找到了订婚的机会，但这次他们肯定没有找到机会交换十几句话。

‘My dear,’ said Mr. Turveydrop benignly to his son, ‘do you know the hour?’
“亲爱的，”特维德罗普先生和蔼地对儿子说，“你知道时间吗？”

‘No, father.’ The son had no watch. The father had a handsome gold one, which he pulled out with an air that was an example to mankind.
“没有，父亲。”儿子没有手表。父亲有一把漂亮的金钥匙，他拿出它的时候神气十足，堪称人类的榜样。

‘My son,’ said he, ‘it’s two o’clock. Recollect your school at Kensington at three.’
“我的儿子，”他说，“现在是两点了。”三点钟回想一下你在肯辛顿的学校。

‘That’s time enough for me, father,’ said Prince. ‘I can take a morsel of dinner standing and be off.’
“这对我来说已经足够了，父亲，”普林斯说。 “我可以站着吃一点晚餐然后离开。”

‘My dear boy,’ returned his father, ‘you must be very quick. You will find the cold mutton on the table.’
“我亲爱的孩子，”他的父亲回答道，“你一定要快点。”你会发现桌子上有冷羊肉。

‘Thank you, father. Are YOU off now, father?’
‘谢谢你，父亲。你现在走了吗，父亲？

‘Yes, my dear. I suppose,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, shutting his eyes and lifting up his shoulders with modest consciousness, ‘that I must show myself, as usual, about town.’
'是的亲爱的。我想，”特维德罗普先生闭上眼睛，谦虚地抬起肩膀说道，“我必须像往常一样，去看看这座城市。”

‘You had better dine out comfortably somewhere,’ said his son.
“你最好找个舒服的地方吃饭，”他的儿子说。

‘My dear child, I intend to. I shall take my little meal, I think, at the French house, in the Opera Colonnade.’
‘我亲爱的孩子，我打算这么做。我想，我应该在法国房子的歌剧院柱廊里吃一顿小饭。

‘That’s right. Good-bye, father!’ said Prince, shaking hands.
'这是正确的。再见，父亲！”普林斯握手说道。

‘Good-bye, my son. Bless you!’
‘再见，我的儿子。祝福你！'

Mr. Turveydrop said this in quite a pious manner, and it seemed to do his son good, who, in parting from him, was so pleased with him, so dutiful to him, and so proud of him that I almost felt as if it were an unkindness to the younger man not to be able to believe implicitly in the elder. The few moments that were occupied by Prince in taking leave of us (and particularly of one of us, as I saw, being in the secret), enhanced my favourable impression of his almost childish character. I felt a liking for him and a compassion for him as he put his little kit in his pocket—and with it his desire to stay a little while with Caddy—and went away good-humouredly to his cold mutton and his school at Kensington, that made me scarcely less irate with his father than the censorious old lady.
特维德罗普先生以相当虔诚的方式说这句话，这似乎对他的儿子有好处，在与他告别时，他对他非常满意，对他非常尽职，为他感到骄傲，我几乎觉得好像不能完全相信长者，对年轻人来说是一种不仁慈。普林斯离开我们（尤其是我们中的一个人，正如我所看到的，处于秘密之中）的那几分钟，增强了我对他近乎幼稚的性格的好感。当他把他的小工具包放进口袋时，我对他产生了喜欢和同情——带着它他想和凯迪呆一会儿的愿望——然后幽默地离开他的冷羊肉和他在肯辛顿的学校，这使我对他父亲的愤怒丝毫不亚于那位挑剔的老太太。

The father opened the room door for us and bowed us out in a manner, I must acknowledge, worthy of his shining original. In the same style he presently passed us on the other side of the street, on his way to the aristocratic part of the town, where he was going to show himself among the few other gentlemen left. For some moments, I was so lost in reconsidering what I had heard and seen in Newman Street that I was quite unable to talk to Caddy or even to fix my attention on what she said to me, especially when I began to inquire in my mind whether there were, or ever had been, any other gentlemen, not in the dancing profession, who lived and founded a reputation entirely on their deportment. This became so bewildering and suggested the possibility of so many Mr. Turveydrops that I said, ‘Esther, you must make up your mind to abandon this subject altogether and attend to Caddy.’ I accordingly did so, and we chatted all the rest of the way to Lincoln’s Inn.
我必须承认，父亲为我们打开房门，并以一种符合他闪亮原创的方式向我们鞠躬。他以同样的方式在街道的另一边从我们身边经过，正在前往镇上的贵族区的路上，在那里他将在剩下的几位绅士中露面。有那么一会儿，我陷入了重新思考我在纽曼街听到和看到的事情，以至于我完全无法与凯迪交谈，甚至无法集中注意力在她对我说的话上，尤其是当我开始在心里询问时是否有或曾经有过任何非舞蹈界的绅士，他们的生活和声誉完全取决于他们的举止。这变得如此令人困惑，并暗示了如此多的特维德罗先生的可能性，以至于我说，“埃丝特，你必须下定决心完全放弃这个话题并照顾凯迪。”我因此这样做了，我们聊了剩下的所有事情。去林肯旅馆的路。

Caddy told me that her lover’s education had been so neglected that it was not always easy to read his notes. She said if he were not so anxious about his spelling and took less pains to make it clear, he would do better; but he put so many unnecessary letters into short words that they sometimes quite lost their English appearance. ‘He does it with the best intention,’ observed Caddy, ‘but it hasn’t the effect he means, poor fellow!’ Caddy then went on to reason, how could he be expected to be a scholar when he had passed his whole life in the dancing-school and had done nothing but teach and fag, fag and teach, morning, noon, and night! And what did it matter? She could write letters enough for both, as she knew to her cost, and it was far better for him to be amiable than learned. ‘Besides, it’s not as if I was an accomplished girl who had any right to give herself airs,’ said Caddy. ‘I know little enough, I am sure, thanks to Ma!
凯迪告诉我，她爱人的教育被严重忽视，以至于阅读他的笔记并不总是那么容易。她说，如果他不那么担心自己的拼写，并且不那么费力地把它说清楚，他会做得更好；但他把太多不必要的字母放入简短的单词中，以至于有时它们完全失去了英语的外观。 “他这样做是出于最好的意图，”卡迪观察到，“但这并没有达到他想要的效果，可怜的家伙！”卡迪接着继续推理，当他通过了全部考试后，怎么能指望他成为一名学者呢？在舞蹈学校的生活里，除了教课、教课、教课、教书，早上、中午、晚上什么也没做！这有什么关系呢？她可以为两人写足够的信，因为她知道自己付出了代价，而且对他来说，和蔼可亲比博学多才要好得多。 “此外，我并不是一个有成就的女孩，有权利摆架子，”凯迪说。 “我确信我知道的还不够多，谢谢妈妈！”

‘There’s another thing I want to tell you, now we are alone,’ continued Caddy, ‘which I should not have liked to mention unless you had seen Prince, Miss Summerson. You know what a house ours is. It’s of no use my trying to learn anything that it would be useful for Prince’s wife to know in OUR house. We live in such a state of muddle that it’s impossible, and I have only been more disheartened whenever I have tried. So I get a little practice with—who do you think? Poor Miss Flite! Early in the morning I help her to tidy her room and clean her birds, and I make her cup of coffee for her (of course she taught me), and I have learnt to make it so well that Prince says it’s the very best coffee he ever tasted, and would quite delight old Mr. Turveydrop, who is very particular indeed about his coffee. I can make little puddings too; and I know how to buy neck of mutton, and tea, and sugar, and butter, and a good many housekeeping things. I am not clever at my needle, yet,’ said Caddy, glancing at the repairs on Peepy’s frock, ‘but perhaps I shall improve, and since I have been engaged to Prince and have been doing all this, I have felt better-tempered, I hope, and more forgiving to Ma. It rather put me out at first this morning to see you and Miss Clare looking so neat and pretty and to feel ashamed of Peepy and myself too, but on the whole I hope I am better-tempered than I was and more forgiving to Ma.’
“还有一件事我想告诉你，现在我们只剩下我们了，”卡迪继续说道，“萨默森小姐，除非你见过普林斯，否则我不想提这件事。你知道我们的房子是什么样的。我试图学习任何对普林斯的妻子在我们家里有用的知识是没有用的。我们生活在如此混乱的状态中，这是不可能的，每当我尝试时，我只会更加沮丧。所以我和你觉得是谁进行了一些练习？可怜的弗利特小姐！一大早我帮她收拾房间，打扫鸟儿，还给她泡了一杯咖啡（当然是她教我的），而且我已经学会了煮得很好，普林斯说这是最好的咖啡他曾经尝过老特维德罗普先生的味道，并且非常高兴，因为他对咖啡确实非常挑剔。我也会做小布丁；我知道如何购买羊颈肉、茶、糖、黄油以及许多家务用品。不过，我的针线技术还不高明，”卡迪一边说，一边看了一眼皮比连衣裙上的修补处，“但也许我会进步，而且自从我和普林斯订婚并做了这一切之后，我感觉脾气好多了。 ，希望，对马云更加宽容。今天早上一开始我看到你和克莱尔小姐看起来如此整洁漂亮，并且为皮比和我自己感到羞耻，这让我很不高兴，但总的来说，我希望我的脾气比以前更好，对妈妈更宽容。 '

The poor girl, trying so hard, said it from her heart, and touched mine. ‘Caddy, my love,’ I replied, ‘I begin to have a great affection for you, and I hope we shall become friends.’
这个可怜的女孩如此努力，说出了她的心声，触动了我的心。 “球童，我的爱人，”我回答道，“我开始对你产生了深厚的感情，我希望我们能成为朋友。”

‘Oh, do you?’ cried Caddy. ‘How happy that would make me!’
“噢，是吗？”凯迪喊道。 “那会让我多么高兴啊！”

‘My dear Caddy,’ said I, ‘let us be friends from this time, and let us often have a chat about these matters and try to find the right way through them.’ Caddy was overjoyed. I said everything I could in my old-fashioned way to comfort and encourage her, and I would not have objected to old Mr. Turveydrop that day for any smaller consideration than a settlement on his daughter-in-law.
“亲爱的凯迪，”我说，“让我们从这次开始成为朋友吧，让我们经常谈论这些事情，并尝试找到正确的解决办法。”凯迪欣喜若狂。我用老派的方式尽我所能地安慰和鼓励她，那天我不会因为任何比解决他儿媳妇问题更小的考虑而反对特维德罗普老先生。

By this time we were come to Mr. Krook’s, whose private door stood open. There was a bill, pasted on the door-post, announcing a room to let on the second floor. It reminded Caddy to tell me as we proceeded upstairs that there had been a sudden death there and an inquest and that our little friend had been ill of the fright. The door and window of the vacant room being open, we looked in. It was the room with the dark door to which Miss Flite had secretly directed my attention when I was last in the house. A sad and desolate place it was, a gloomy, sorrowful place that gave me a strange sensation of mournfulness and even dread. ‘You look pale,’ said Caddy when we came out, ‘and cold!’ I felt as if the room had chilled me.
这时我们来到了克鲁克先生家，他的私人门开着。门柱上贴着一张账单，上面写着二楼出租一个房间。它提醒凯迪在我们上楼时告诉我，那里发生了一起猝死事件，并进行了调查，我们的小朋友被吓坏了。空房间的门窗都开着，我们往里看。这是我最后一次进屋时弗利特小姐偷偷让我注意的那个门黑的房间。那是一个悲伤、荒凉的地方，一个阴暗、悲伤的地方，给我一种奇怪的悲伤甚至恐惧的感觉。 “你看上去脸色苍白，”我们出来时凯迪说，“而且很冷！”我感觉房间里仿佛让我感到寒冷。

We had walked slowly while we were talking, and my guardian and Ada were here before us. We found them in Miss Flite’s garret. They were looking at the birds, while a medical gentleman who was so good as to attend Miss Flite with much solicitude and compassion spoke with her cheerfully by the fire.
我们一边说话，一边慢慢地走着，我的监护人和艾达就在我们前面。我们在弗利特小姐的阁楼里找到了它们。他们正在观察鸟儿，一位医术高尚的绅士非常关心和同情地照顾弗利特小姐，在火边愉快地与她交谈。

‘I have finished my professional visit,’ he said, coming forward. ‘Miss Flite is much better and may appear in court (as her mind is set upon it) to-morrow. She has been greatly missed there, I understand.’
“我已经结束了我的专业访问，”他走上前来说道。 “弗利特小姐好多了，明天可能会出庭（因为她已经下定决心了）。我理解，那里非常想念她。

Miss Flite received the compliment with complacency and dropped a general curtsy to us.
弗利特小姐沾沾自喜地接受了我们的称赞，并向我们行了个屈膝礼。

‘Honoured, indeed,’ said she, ‘by another visit from the wards in Jarndyce! Ve-ry happy to receive Jarndyce of Bleak House beneath my humble roof!’ with a special curtsy. ‘Fitz-Jarndyce, my dear’— she had bestowed that name on Caddy, it appeared, and always called her by it—‘a double welcome!’
“确实很荣幸，”她说，“贾迪斯的病房再次来访！非常高兴能在我简陋的屋檐下接待《荒凉山庄》的贾迪斯！’并行了特别的屈膝礼。 “菲茨·贾迪斯，亲爱的”——看来她给凯迪起了这个名字，并且总是这样称呼她——“双重欢迎！”

‘Has she been very ill?’ asked Mr. Jarndyce of the gentleman whom we had found in attendance on her. She answered for herself directly, though he had put the question in a whisper.
“她病得很重吗？”贾迪斯先生向我们发现照顾她的那位绅士问道。她直接回答了自己，尽管他是小声问的。

‘Oh, decidedly unwell! Oh, very unwell indeed,’ she said confidentially. ‘Not pain, you know—trouble. Not bodily so much as nervous, nervous! The truth is,’ in a subdued voice and trembling, ‘we have had death here. There was poison in the house. I am very susceptible to such horrid things. It frightened me. Only Mr. Woodcourt knows how much. My physician, Mr, Woodcourt!’ with great stateliness. ‘The wards in Jarndyce—Jarndyce of Bleak House—Fitz-Jarndyce!’
‘哦，肯定不舒服了！哦，确实很不舒服，”她偷偷地说。 “你知道，不是痛苦，而是麻烦。与其说是身体上的紧张，不如说是紧张！事实是，”声音低沉而颤抖，“我们在这里经历过死亡。屋里有毒。我对这种可怕的事情很敏感。这让我害怕。只有伍德考特先生知道有多少。我的医生，伍德考特先生！”语气十分庄严。 “贾迪斯的病房——荒凉山庄的贾迪斯——菲茨-贾迪斯！”

‘Miss Flite,’ said Mr. Woodcourt in a grave kind of voice, as if he were appealing to her while speaking to us, and laying his hand gently on her arm, ‘Miss Flite describes her illness with her usual accuracy. She was alarmed by an occurrence in the house which might have alarmed a stronger person, and was made ill by the distress and agitation. She brought me here in the first hurry of the discovery, though too late for me to be of any use to the unfortunate man. I have compensated myself for that disappointment by coming here since and being of some small use to her.’
“弗利特小姐，”伍德考特先生用一种严肃的声音说道，就像他在对我们说话时向她发出呼吁一样，他把手轻轻地放在她的手臂上，“弗利特小姐以她一贯的准确描述了她的病情。她对家里发生的事情感到震惊，这可能会惊动一个更坚强的人，并因痛苦和激动而生病。她在发现这一情况后第一时间就把我带到了这里，尽管为时已晚，我对这个不幸的人没有任何用处。从那以后我来到这里并为她提供了一些小帮助，以此来补偿自己的失望。

‘The kindest physician in the college,’ whispered Miss Flite to me. ‘I expect a judgment. On the day of judgment. And shall then confer estates.’
“学院里最和蔼的医生。”弗利特小姐低声对我说道。 “我期待一个判决。在审判日。然后将授予遗产。

‘She will be as well in a day or two,’ said Mr. Woodcourt, looking at her with an observant smile, ‘as she ever will be. In other words, quite well of course. Have you heard of her good fortune?’
“一两天后，她就会恢复正常了，”伍德考特先生说，脸上带着敏锐的微笑，看着她，“就像以前一样。”换句话说，当然很好。你听说过她的好运气吗？

‘Most extraordinary!’ said Miss Flite, smiling brightly. ‘You never heard of such a thing, my dear! Every Saturday, Conversation Kenge or Guppy (clerk to Conversation K.) places in my hand a paper of shillings. Shillings. I assure you! Always the same number in the paper. Always one for every day in the week. Now you know, really! So well-timed, is it not? Ye-es! From whence do these papers come, you say? That is the great question. Naturally. Shall I tell you what I think? I think,’ said Miss Flite, drawing herself back with a very shrewd look and shaking her right forefinger in a most significant manner, ‘that the Lord Chancellor, aware of the length of time during which the Great Seal has been open (for it has been open a long time!), forwards them. Until the judgment I expect is given. Now that’s very creditable, you know. To confess in that way that he IS a little slow for human life. So delicate! Attending court the other day—I attend it regularly, with my documents—I taxed him with it, and he almost confessed. That is, I smiled at him from my bench, and HE smiled at me from his bench. But it’s great good fortune, is it not? And FitzJarndyce lays the money out for me to great advantage. Oh, I assure you to the greatest advantage!’
“太不寻常了！”弗利特小姐灿烂地笑着说。 “你从来没有听说过这样的事，亲爱的！每个星期六，对话肯吉或古皮（对话K的职员）都会把一张先令纸放在我手里。先令。我向你们保证！报纸上的数字始终相同。一周中的每一天总是一个。现在你知道了，真的！这么及时，不是吗？是的！你说这些论文从哪里来？这是一个很好的问题。自然。我要告诉你我的想法吗？我认为，”弗利特小姐说，她以一种非常精明的表情向后退了一步，并以一种非常重要的方式摇动了她的右手食指，“大法官知道国玺被打开的时间长度（因为它已经开放很久了！），转发它们。直到给出我所期望的判断。你知道，这是非常值得信赖的。以这种方式承认他对人类生活有点迟钝。好精致啊！前几天出庭——我经常带着我的文件出庭——我用它向他征税，他几乎认罪了。也就是说，我在我的板凳上对他微笑，他也在他的板凳上对我微笑。但这也是天大的福气，不是吗？菲茨贾迪斯（FitzJarndyce）为我提供了巨大的优势。哦，我向你保证最大的好处！

I congratulated her (as she addressed herself to me) upon this fortunate addition to her income and wished her a long continuance of it. I did not speculate upon the source from which it came or wonder whose humanity was so considerate. My guardian stood before me, contemplating the birds, and I had no need to look beyond him.
我祝贺她（当她对我讲话时）她的收入有了如此幸运的增加，并祝愿她能长久地继续下去。我没有猜测它的来源，也没有想知道是谁的人性如此体贴。我的监护人站在我面前，凝视着这些鸟儿，我不需要把目光移向他以外的地方。

‘And what do you call these little fellows, ma’am?’ said he in his pleasant voice. ‘Have they any names?’
“女士，您怎么称呼这些小家伙呢？”他用愉快的声音问道。 “他们有名字吗？”

‘I can answer for Miss Elite that they have,’ said I, ‘for she promised to tell us what they were. Ada remembers?’
“我可以代表精英小姐回答他们的问题，”我说，“因为她答应告诉我们他们是什么。”艾达还记得吗？

Ada remembered very well.
艾达记得很清楚。

‘Did I?’ said Miss Elite. ‘Who’s that at my door? What are you listening at my door for, Krook?’
“是吗？”精英小姐说。 ‘我家门口是谁？你在我门口偷听干什么，克鲁克？

The old man of the house, pushing it open before him, appeared there with his fur cap in his hand and his cat at his heels.
屋里的老人在他面前推开门，出现了，手里拿着毛皮帽子，脚后跟着他的猫。

‘I warn’t listening, Miss Flite,’ he said, ‘I was going to give a rap with my knuckles, only you’re so quick!’
“我没在听，弗利特小姐，”他说，“我正想用指关节敲击，只是你太快了！”

‘Make your cat go down. Drive her away!’ the old lady angrily exclaimed.
‘让你的猫下去。把她赶走！”老太太愤怒地叫道。

‘Bah, bah! There ain’t no danger, gentlefolks,’ said Mr. Krook, looking slowly and sharply from one to another until he had looked at all of us; ‘she’d never offer at the birds when I was here unless I told her to it.’
‘呸，呸！先生们，没有危险。”克鲁克先生说，他慢慢地、锐利地从一个人看向另一个人，直到他看遍了我们所有人。 “当我在这里的时候，除非我告诉她，否则她永远不会向鸟儿献祭。”

‘You will excuse my landlord,’ said the old lady with a dignified air. ‘M, quite M! What do you want, Krook, when I have company?’
“请原谅我的房东。”老太太神情凝重地说。 ‘M，相当M！当我有伴时，克鲁克，你想要什么？

‘Hi!’ said the old man. ‘You know I am the Chancellor.’
“嗨！”老人说。 “你知道我是财政大臣。”

‘Well?’ returned Miss Elite. ‘What of that?’
“嗯？”精英小姐回答道。 “那又怎样？”

‘For the Chancellor,’ said the old man with a chuckle, ‘not to be acquainted with a Jarndyce is queer, ain’t it, Miss Flite? Mightn’t I take the liberty? Your servant, sir. I know Jarndyce and Jarndyce a’most as well as you do, sir. I knowed old Squire Tom, sir. I never to my knowledge see you afore though, not even in court. Yet, I go there a mortal sight of times in the course of the year, taking one day with another.’
“对大法官来说，”老人笑着说，“不认识詹迪斯是很奇怪的，不是吗，弗利特小姐？难道我就不能冒昧吗？您的仆人，先生。我和你一样了解贾迪斯和贾迪斯，先生。我认识老乡绅汤姆，先生。但据我所知，我以前从未见过你，甚至在法庭上也没有见过。然而，在这一年中，我曾多次去那里参观，一天又一天。

‘I never go there,’ said Mr. Jarndyce (which he never did on any consideration). ‘I would sooner go—somewhere else.’
“我从来没有去过那里，”贾迪斯先生说（他出于任何考虑都没有去过那里）。 “我宁愿去别的地方。”

‘Would you though?’ returned Krook, grinning. ‘You’re bearing hard upon my noble and learned brother in your meaning, sir, though perhaps it is but nat’ral in a Jarndyce. The burnt child, sir! What, you’re looking at my lodger’s birds, Mr. Jarndyce?’ The old man had come by little and little into the room until he now touched my guardian with his elbow and looked close up into his face with his spectacled eyes. ‘It’s one of her strange ways that she’ll never tell the names of these birds if she can help it, though she named ‘em all.’ This was in a whisper. ‘Shall I run ‘em over, Flite?’ he asked aloud, winking at us and pointing at her as she turned away, affecting to sweep the grate.
“你愿意吗？”克鲁克笑着回答。 “按照你的意思，你对我高贵而博学的​​兄弟很严厉，先生，尽管这也许只是加迪斯酒中的自然现象。”被烧伤的孩子，先生！什么，贾迪斯先生，你在看我房客的鸟吗？”老人一步一步地走进房间，直到他用肘部碰触了我的监护人，并用戴着眼镜的眼睛仔细地看着他的脸。 “这是她奇怪的方式之一，如果可以的话，她永远不会告诉这些鸟的名字，尽管她给‘它们全部命名’。这是低声说的。 “要我把他们撞过去吗，弗利特？”他大声问道，向我们眨了眨眼，在她转身走开时指着她，假装要扫炉栅。

‘If you like,’ she answered hurriedly.
“如果你愿意的话。”她急忙回答。

The old man, looking up at the cages after another look at us, went through the list.
老人抬头看了看笼子，又看了我们一眼，浏览了一遍清单。

‘Hope, Joy, Youth, Peace, Rest, Life, Dust, Ashes, Waste, Want, Ruin, Despair, Madness, Death, Cunning, Folly, Words, Wigs, Rags, Sheepskin, Plunder, Precedent, Jargon, Gammon, and Spinach. That’s the whole collection,’ said the old man, ‘all cooped up together, by my noble and learned brother.’
“希望、欢乐、青春、和平、休息、生命、尘土、灰烬、浪费、匮乏、废墟、绝望、疯狂、死亡、狡猾、愚蠢、言语、假发、破布、羊皮、掠夺、先例、行话、火腿和菠菜。这就是全部藏品，”老人说，“都是由我高贵而博学的​​兄弟收藏在一起的。”

‘This is a bitter wind!’ muttered my guardian.
“这风真刺骨！”我的监护人低声说道。

‘When my noble and learned brother gives his judgment, they’re to be let go free,’ said Krook, winking at us again. ‘And then,’ he added, whispering and grinning, ‘if that ever was to happen—which it won’t—the birds that have never been caged would kill ‘em.’
“当我高贵而博学的​​兄弟做出判断时，他们就会被释放，”克鲁克说道，再次对我们眨了眨眼。 “然后，”他微笑着低声补充道，“如果这种情况真的发生了——但它不会发生——那些从未被关在笼子里的鸟会杀死它们。”

‘If ever the wind was in the east,’ said my guardian, pretending to look out of the window for a weathercock, ‘I think it’s there today!’
“如果风向是东风的话，”我的监护人假装向窗外寻找风向标说道，“我想今天就在那里！”

We found it very difficult to get away from the house. It was not Miss Flite who detained us; she was as reasonable a little creature in consulting the convenience of others as there possibly could be. It was Mr. Krook. He seemed unable to detach himself from Mr. Jarndyce. If he had been linked to him, he could hardly have attended him more closely. He proposed to show us his Court of Chancery and all the strange medley it contained; during the whole of our inspection (prolonged by himself) he kept close to Mr. Jarndyce and sometimes detained him under one pretence or other until we had passed on, as if he were tormented by an inclination to enter upon some secret subject which he could not make up his mind to approach. I cannot imagine a countenance and manner more singularly expressive of caution and indecision, and a perpetual impulse to do something he could not resolve to venture on, than Mr. Krook’s was that day. His watchfulness of my guardian was incessant. He rarely removed his eyes from his face. If he went on beside him, he observed him with the slyness of an old white fox. If he went before, he looked back. When we stood still, he got opposite to him, and drawing his hand across and across his open mouth with a curious expression of a sense of power, and turning up his eyes, and lowering his grey eyebrows until they appeared to be shut, seemed to scan every lineament of his face.
我们发现很难离开房子。拦住我们的不是弗利特小姐，而是弗利特小姐。她是个很通情达理的小人，会尽可能地考虑别人的方便。是克鲁克先生。他似乎无法脱离贾迪斯先生。如果他和他有联系，他几乎不可能更密切地关注他。他提议向我们展示他的大法官法庭以及其中包含的所有奇怪的混合体。在我们视察的整个过程中（他自己延长了时间），他一直和贾迪斯先生保持着密切的关系，有时会以这样或那样的借口拘留他，直到我们离开为止，仿佛他被一种想要进入某个他可以谈论的秘密话题的倾向所折磨。没有下定决心去接近。我想象不出有什么表情和举止比克鲁克先生那天的表情和举止更能表现出谨慎和优柔寡断，以及做一些他无法下定决心冒险做的事情的永恒冲动。他对我的监护人始终保持警惕。他的目光很少从脸上移开。如果他走在他身边，他就会像一只老白狐一样狡猾地观察他。如果他以前去过，他就会回头看。当我们站着不动时，他走到他对面，用一只手抚过他张开的嘴，脸上带着一种充满力量感的好奇表情，他抬起眼睛，垂下灰色的眉毛，直到它们似乎闭上了，似乎扫描他脸上的每一个线条。

At last, having been (always attended by the cat) all over the house and having seen the whole stock of miscellaneous lumber, which was certainly curious, we came into the back part of the shop. Here on the head of an empty barrel stood on end were an ink-bottle, some old stumps of pens, and some dirty playbills; and against the wall were pasted several large printed alphabets in several plain hands.
最后，我们（总是有猫陪伴）走遍了整个房子，看到了所有的杂项木材，这当然很好奇，我们来到了商店的后面。一个空桶的头上竖立着一个墨水瓶、一些旧笔桩和一些脏兮兮的节目单；墙上贴着几个大大的印刷字母，是由几位朴素的手写的。

‘What are you doing here?’ asked my guardian.
“你来这里做什么？”我的监护人问。

‘Trying to learn myself to read and write,’ said Krook.
“努力学习阅读和写作，”克鲁克说。

‘And how do you get on?’
“你过得怎么样？”

‘Slow. Bad,’ returned the old man impatiently. ‘It’s hard at my time of life.’
'慢的。不好。”老人不耐烦地回答道。 “我这一生很艰难。”

‘It would be easier to be taught by some one,’ said my guardian.
“由某人来教导会更容易，”我的监护人说。

‘Aye, but they might teach me wrong!’ returned the old man with a wonderfully suspicious flash of his eye. ‘I don’t know what I may have lost by not being learned afore. I wouldn’t like to lose anything by being learned wrong now.’
“是的，但他们可能教错了我！”老人回答道，眼中闪过一丝奇妙的怀疑。 “我不知道如果之前没有学到东西，我可能会失去什么。我不想因为现在学错了而失去任何东西。”

‘Wrong?’ said my guardian with his good-humoured smile. ‘Who do you suppose would teach you wrong?’
“错了？”我的监护人带着幽默的微笑说道。 “你觉得谁会教你错呢？”

‘I don’t know, Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House!’ replied the old man, turning up his spectacles on his forehead and rubbing his hands. ‘I don’t suppose as anybody would, but I’d rather trust my own self than another!’
“我不知道，荒凉山庄的贾迪斯先生！”老人答道，转动额头上的眼镜，揉搓双手。 “我不这么认为，但我宁愿相信自己，也不愿相信别人！”

These answers and his manner were strange enough to cause my guardian to inquire of Mr. Woodcourt, as we all walked across Lincoln’s Inn together, whether Mr. Krook were really, as his lodger represented him, deranged. The young surgeon replied, no, he had seen no reason to think so. He was exceedingly distrustful, as ignorance usually was, and he was always more or less under the influence of raw gin, of which he drank great quantities and of which he and his back-shop, as we might have observed, smelt strongly; but he did not think him mad as yet.
当我们一起穿过林肯旅馆时，这些答案和他的态度很奇怪，以至于我的监护人询问伍德考特先生，克鲁克先生是否真的像他的房客所代表的那样精神错乱。年轻的外科医生回答说，不，他认为没有理由这么想。他非常不信任别人，无知者通常都会这样，他总是或多或少地受到生杜松子酒的影响，他喝了大量的杜松子酒，正如我们可能已经观察到的那样，他和他的后店闻起来很浓烈。但他还不认为他疯了。

On our way home, I so conciliated Peepy’s affections by buying him a windmill and two flour-sacks that he would suffer nobody else to take off his hat and gloves and would sit nowhere at dinner but at my side. Caddy sat upon the other side of me, next to Ada, to whom we imparted the whole history of the engagement as soon as we got back. We made much of Caddy, and Peepy too; and Caddy brightened exceedingly; and my guardian was as merry as we were; and we were all very happy indeed until Caddy went home at night in a hackneycoach, with Peepy fast asleep, but holding tight to the windmill.
在回家的路上，我为了安抚皮比的感情，给他买了一个风车和两个面粉袋，以至于他不允许其他人脱下帽子和手套，而且在晚餐时除了我之外不会坐在任何地方。球童坐在我的另一边，挨着艾达，我们一回来就向她讲述了订婚的全部历史。我们很重视凯迪，还有皮皮。凯迪的神情格外明亮。我的监护人和我们一样快乐；我们真的都很高兴，直到晚上凯迪乘坐出租马车回家，皮皮睡得很熟，但紧紧抓住风车。

I have forgotten to mention—at least I have not mentioned—that Mr. Woodcourt was the same dark young surgeon whom we had met at Mr. Badger’s. Or that Mr. Jarndyce invited him to dinner that day. Or that he came. Or that when they were all gone and I said to Ada, ‘Now, my darling, let us have a little talk about Richard!’ Ada laughed and said—
我忘了提及——至少我没有提及——伍德考特先生就是我们在巴杰先生诊所遇到的那位皮肤黝黑的年轻外科医生。或者那天贾迪斯先生邀请他共进晚餐。或者说他来了。或者当他们都走了之后，我对艾达说：“现在，亲爱的，让我们来谈谈理查德吧！”艾达笑着说——

But I don’t think it matters what my darling said. She was always merry.
但我认为我亲爱的说的话并不重要。她总是很快乐。

CHAPTER XV
第十五章


Bell Yard
贝尔院

While we were in London Mr. Jarndyce was constantly beset by the crowd of excitable ladies and gentlemen whose proceedings had so much astonished us. Mr. Quale, who presented himself soon after our arrival, was in all such excitements. He seemed to project those two shining knobs of temples of his into everything that went on and to brush his hair farther and farther back, until the very roots were almost ready to fly out of his head in inappeasable philanthropy. All objects were alike to him, but he was always particularly ready for anything in the way of a testimonial to any one. His great power seemed to be his power of indiscriminate admiration. He would sit for any length of time, with the utmost enjoyment, bathing his temples in the light of any order of luminary. Having first seen him perfectly swallowed up in admiration of Mrs. Jellyby, I had supposed her to be the absorbing object of his devotion. I soon discovered my mistake and found him to be train-bearer and organ-blower to a whole procession of people.
当我们在伦敦时，贾迪斯先生经常被一群兴奋的女士和先生围观，他们的行为让我们大吃一惊。我们到达后不久，奎尔先生就出现了，他非常兴奋。他似乎把他那两个闪亮的太阳穴投射到了正在发生的一切中，并把他的头发向后梳得越来越远，直到头发根几乎准备好从他的头上飞出，无法平息的慈善事业。所有物体对他来说都是相似的，但他总是特别准备好以向任何人证明的方式对待任何事情。他的伟大力量，似乎就是他无差别的崇拜之力。他会以最大的享受坐上任何时间，让太阳穴沐浴在任何圣体的光芒中。第一次看到他完全沉浸在对杰利比夫人的崇拜中时，我以为她是他倾心的对象。我很快就发现了自己的错误，发现他是一大群人的火车夫和风琴吹奏者。

Mrs. Pardiggle came one day for a subscription to something, and with her, Mr. Quale. Whatever Mrs. Pardiggle said, Mr. Quale repeated to us; and just as he had drawn Mrs. Jellyby out, he drew Mrs. Pardiggle out. Mrs. Pardiggle wrote a letter of introduction to my guardian in behalf of her eloquent friend Mr. Gusher. With Mr. Gusher appeared Mr. Quale again. Mr. Gusher, being a flabby gentleman with a moist surface and eyes so much too small for his moon of a face that they seemed to have been originally made for somebody else, was not at first sight prepossessing; yet he was scarcely seated before Mr. Quale asked Ada and me, not inaudibly, whether he was not a great creature—which he certainly was, flabbily speaking, though Mr. Quale meant in intellectual beauty— and whether we were not struck by his massive configuration of brow. In short, we heard of a great many missions of various sorts among this set of people, but nothing respecting them was half so clear to us as that it was Mr. Quale’s mission to be in ecstasies with everybody else’s mission and that it was the most popular mission of all.
有一天，帕迪格太太来订阅一件东西，和她一起的还有奎尔先生。无论帕迪格夫人说什么，奎尔先生都会向我们重复一遍。就在他把杰利比夫人拉出来的同时，他也把帕迪格夫人拉了出来。帕迪格夫人代表她能言善辩的朋友古舍先生给我的监护人写了一封介绍信。与古舍先生一起出现的是奎尔先生。古舍先生是一位身材松弛的绅士，皮肤湿润，眼睛与月亮般的脸相比显得太小，似乎是为别人而生的，乍一看并不讨人喜欢。然而，他刚坐到奎尔先生面前，就小声地问艾达和我，他是否不是一个伟大的人物——他确实是，软弱地说，尽管奎尔先生指的是知性之美——以及我们是否没有被他的行为所震惊。眉毛的大量配置。简而言之，我们听说过这群人中有很多各种各样的使命，但对我们来说，没有什么比奎尔先生的使命更清楚的是，他的使命是与其他人的使命一起欣喜若狂，而这正是奎尔先生的使命。最受欢迎的任务。

Mr. Jarndyce had fallen into this company in the tenderness of his heart and his earnest desire to do all the good in his power; but that he felt it to be too often an unsatisfactory company, where benevolence took spasmodic forms, where charity was assumed as a regular uniform by loud professors and speculators in cheap notoriety, vehement in profession, restless and vain in action, servile in the last degree of meanness to the great, adulatory of one another, and intolerable to those who were anxious quietly to help the weak from failing rather than with a great deal of bluster and self-laudation to raise them up a little way when they were down, he plainly told us. When a testimonial was originated to Mr. Quale by Mr. Gusher (who had already got one, originated by Mr. Quale), and when Mr. Gusher spoke for an hour and a half on the subject to a meeting, including two charity schools of small boys and girls, who were specially reminded of the widow’s mite, and requested to come forward with halfpence and be acceptable sacrifices, I think the wind was in the east for three whole weeks.
贾迪斯先生是出于内心的温柔和尽其所能做好一切善事的热切愿望而加入这群人的。但他觉得这往往是一个令人不满意的公司，那里的仁慈采取了间歇性的形式，那里的慈善事业被那些声名狼藉的大声教授和投机者认为是一种常规制服，他们在职业上热情洋溢，在行动上焦躁不安，徒劳无功，最后卑躬屈膝。对伟人的卑鄙，对彼此的奉承，对那些默默地渴望帮助弱者免于失败的人来说是无法容忍的，而不是在他们失意时用大量的咆哮和自我吹捧来使他们稍微提高一点，他清楚地告诉我们。当 Gusher 先生向 Quale 先生发起一份感言时（他已经得到了一份由 Quale 先生发起的感言），以及当 Gusher 先生在一次会议上就该主题发表了一个半小时的演讲，其中包括两所慈善学校那些小男孩和女孩，特别提醒了寡妇的小费，并要求拿出半便士作为可以接受的牺牲，我认为风在东方持续了整整三个星期。

I mention this because I am coming to Mr. Skimpole again. It seemed to me that his off-hand professions of childishness and carelessness were a great relief to my guardian, by contrast with such things, and were the more readily believed in since to find one perfectly undesigning and candid man among many opposites could not fail to give him pleasure. I should be sorry to imply that Mr. Skimpole divined this and was politic; I really never understood him well enough to know. What he was to my guardian, he certainly was to the rest of the world.
我提到这一点是因为我又要去找斯金波尔先生了。在我看来，与这些事情相比，他即兴表白的幼稚和粗心对我的监护人来说是一种极大的安慰，而且更容易被相信，因为在众多相反的人中找到一个完全没有设计和坦率的人是不可能失败的。给他快乐。我很抱歉地暗示，斯金波尔先生已经预见到了这一点，并且很谨慎。我真的从来没有足够了解他。他对于我的监护人来说就像是对于世界其他地方一样。

He had not been very well; and thus, though he lived in London, we had seen nothing of him until now. He appeared one morning in his usual agreeable way and as full of pleasant spirits as ever.
他身体不太好。因此，虽然他住在伦敦，但我们直到现在才见到他。一天早上，他以一贯的和蔼可亲的方式出现，并且一如既往地充满愉快的精神。

Well, he said, here he was! He had been bilious, but rich men were often bilious, and therefore he had been persuading himself that he was a man of property. So he was, in a certain point of view—in his expansive intentions. He had been enriching his medical attendant in the most lavish manner. He had always doubled, and sometimes quadrupled, his fees. He had said to the doctor, ‘Now, my dear doctor, it is quite a delusion on your part to suppose that you attend me for nothing. I am overwhelming you with money—in my expansive intentions—if you only knew it!’ And really (he said) he meant it to that degree that he thought it much the same as doing it. If he had had those bits of metal or thin paper to which mankind attached so much importance to put in the doctor’s hand, he would have put them in the doctor’s hand. Not having them, he substituted the will for the deed. Very well! If he really meant it—if his will were genuine and real, which it was—it appeared to him that it was the same as coin, and cancelled the obligation.
好吧，他说，他来了！他脾气暴躁，但有钱人往往脾气暴躁，因此他一直说服自己，他是一个有钱人。从某种角度来看，他的意图也是如此。他一直在以最奢侈的方式丰富他的医疗侍从。他的费用总是加倍，有时甚至是四倍。他对医生说：“现在，我亲爱的医生，如果你以为你免费为我看病，那就太自欺欺人了。我用金钱压倒了你——在我广阔的意图中——如果你知道的话！’事实上（他说）他的意思是，他认为这与做这件事几乎是一样的。如果他把人类如此重视的那些金属碎片或薄纸放在医生手里，他就会把它们放在医生手里。由于没有这些，他用意志代替了行动。很好！如果他真的是这么想的——如果他的遗嘱是真实的、真实的——事实确实如此——在他看来，这就像硬币一样，并且取消了这项义务。

‘It may be, partly, because I know nothing of the value of money,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘but I often feel this. It seems so reasonable! My butcher says to me he wants that little bill. It’s a part of the pleasant unconscious poetry of the man’s nature that he always calls it a ‘little’ bill—to make the payment appear easy to both of us. I reply to the butcher, ‘My good friend, if you knew it, you are paid. You haven’t had the trouble of coming to ask for the little bill. You are paid. I mean it.’’
“这可能部分是因为我对金钱的价值一无所知，”斯金波尔先生说，“但我经常有这种感觉。”看起来很有道理啊！我的屠夫对我说他想要那张小钞票。他总是称其为“小”账单，这是这个人天性中令人愉快的无意识诗意的一部分——让付款对我们俩来说都显得很容易。我回答屠夫：‘我的好朋友，如果你知道的话，你就得到了报酬。你还没有麻烦来索要那张小帐单。你得到了报酬。我是认真的。''

‘But, suppose,’ said my guardian, laughing, ‘he had meant the meat in the bill, instead of providing it?’
“但是，假设，”我的监护人笑着说，“他指的是账单上的肉，而不是提供它？”

‘My dear Jarndyce,’ he returned, ‘you surprise me. You take the butcher’s position. A butcher I once dealt with occupied that very ground. Says he, ‘Sir, why did you eat spring lamb at eighteen pence a pound?’ ‘Why did I eat spring lamb at eighteen-pence a pound, my honest friend?’ said I, naturally amazed by the question. ‘I like spring lamb!’ This was so far convincing. ‘Well, sir,’ says he, ‘I wish I had meant the lamb as you mean the money!’ ‘My good fellow,’ said I, ‘pray let us reason like intellectual beings. How could that be? It was impossible. You HAD got the lamb, and I have NOT got the money. You couldn’t really mean the lamb without sending it in, whereas I can, and do, really mean the money without paying it!’ He had not a word. There was an end of the subject.’
“我亲爱的贾迪斯，”他回答道，“你让我很惊讶。”你占据了屠夫的位置。我曾经打过交道的一个屠夫就占据了那块地。他说：“先生，你为什么要以十八便士一磅的价格吃春羊肉？”“我诚实的朋友，为什么我要以十八便士一磅的价格吃春羊肉？”我自然而然地对这个问题感到惊讶。 “我喜欢春天的羊肉！”到目前为止，这很有说服力。 “好吧，先生，”他说，“我希望我指的是羔羊，就像您指的是金钱一样！”“我的好朋友，”我说，“请让我们像知识分子一样推理。”怎么可能呢？这是不可能的。你得到了羔羊，而我却没有得到钱。你不可能真的想要那只羔羊而不把它送进来，而我可以，而且确实，真正想要钱而不付钱！”他一言不发。话题就到此结束了。

‘Did he take no legal proceedings?’ inquired my guardian.
“他没有采取任何法律诉讼吗？”我的监护人问道。

‘Yes, he took legal proceedings,’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘But in that he was influenced by passion, not by reason. Passion reminds me of Boythorn. He writes me that you and the ladies have promised him a short visit at his bachelor-house in Lincolnshire.’
“是的，他采取了法律诉讼，”斯金波尔先生说。 “但他是受到激情的影响，而不是理性的影响。激情让我想起博伊索恩。他写信给我说，你和女士们答应他在林肯郡的单身汉家里短暂拜访一下。

‘He is a great favourite with my girls,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘and I have promised for them.’
“他是我女儿们的最爱，”贾迪斯先生说，“我已经向她们做出了承诺。”

‘Nature forgot to shade him off, I think,’ observed Mr. Skimpole to Ada and me. ‘A little too boisterous—like the sea. A little too vehement—like a bull who has made up his mind to consider every colour scarlet. But I grant a sledge-hammering sort of merit in him!’
“我想，大自然忘了把他遮蔽起来，”斯金波尔先生对艾达和我说道。 “有点太喧闹了——就像大海一样。有点太激烈了——就像一头公牛下定决心要把每种颜色都考虑为猩红色。但我承认他有大锤式的优点！

I should have been surprised if those two could have thought very highly of one another, Mr. Boythorn attaching so much importance to many things and Mr. Skimpole caring so little for anything. Besides which, I had noticed Mr. Boythorn more than once on the point of breaking out into some strong opinion when Mr. Skimpole was referred to. Of course I merely joined Ada in saying that we had been greatly pleased with him.
博伊索恩先生对许多事情如此重视，而斯金波尔先生对任何事情都漠不关心，如果这两个人能够互相评价很高的话，我会感到惊讶。除此之外，我不止一次地注意到博伊索恩先生在提到斯金波尔先生时即将发表强烈的意见。当然，我只是和艾达一起说我们对他非常满意。

‘He has invited me,’ said Mr. Skimpole; ‘and if a child may trust himself in such hands—which the present child is encouraged to do, with the united tenderness of two angels to guard him—I shall go. He proposes to frank me down and back again. I suppose it will cost money? Shillings perhaps? Or pounds? Or something of that sort? By the by, Coavinses. You remember our friend Coavinses, Miss Summerson?’
“他邀请了我，”斯金波尔先生说。 “如果一个孩子可以相信自己在这样的手中——现在的孩子被鼓励这样做，有两个天使联合的温柔来保护他——我就会去。他建议我先坦白再坦白。我想这会花钱吗？也许先令？还是磅？或者类似的东西？顺便说一句，科文斯。你还记得我们的朋友科文斯，萨默森小姐吗？

He asked me as the subject arose in his mind, in his graceful, light-hearted manner and without the least embarrassment.
当这个话题在他脑海中浮现时，他以优雅、轻松的态度问我，没有丝毫尴尬。

‘Oh, yes!’ said I.
“哦，是的！”我说。

‘Coavinses has been arrested by the Great Bailiff,’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘He will never do violence to the sunshine any more.’
“科文斯已被大法警逮捕，”斯金波尔先生说。 “他再也不会对阳光施暴了。”

It quite shocked me to hear it, for I had already recalled with anything but a serious association the image of the man sitting on the sofa that night wiping his head.
听到这个消息，我感到非常震惊，因为那天晚上那个男人坐在沙发上擦头的画面已经让我产生了严肃的联想。

‘His successor informed me of it yesterday,’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘His successor is in my house now—in possession, I think he calls it. He came yesterday, on my blue-eyed daughter’s birthday. I put it to him, ‘This is unreasonable and inconvenient. If you had a blue-eyed daughter you wouldn’t like ME to come, uninvited, on HER birthday?’ But he stayed.’
“他的继任者昨天告诉我这件事，”斯金波尔先生说。 “他的继任者现在在我家里——我想他称之为‘占有’。他昨天来了，那天是我蓝眼睛女儿的生日。我对他说：‘这不合理，也不方便。如果你有一个蓝眼睛的女儿，你不会希望我不请自来地在她生日那天来吗？”但他留下了。”

Mr. Skimpole laughed at the pleasant absurdity and lightly touched the piano by which he was seated.
斯金波尔先生对这令人愉快的荒唐事大笑起来，并轻轻碰了碰他坐的钢琴。

‘And he told me,’ he said, playing little chords where I shall put full stops, ‘The Coavinses had left. Three children. No mother. And that Coavinses’ profession. Being unpopular. The rising Coavinses. Were at a considerable disadvantage.’
“他告诉我，”他弹奏着小和弦，我将在此处画上句号，“科文斯一家已经离开了。”三个孩子。没有母亲。还有科文斯的职业。不受欢迎。正在崛起的科文斯。我们处于相当不利的地位。

Mr. Jarndyce got up, rubbing his head, and began to walk about. Mr. Skimpole played the melody of one of Ada’s favourite songs. Ada and I both looked at Mr. Jarndyce, thinking that we knew what was passing in his mind.
贾迪斯先生站起来，揉着头，开始走动。斯金波尔先生演奏了艾达最喜欢的一首歌曲的旋律。艾达和我都看着贾迪斯先生，以为我们知道他脑子里在想什么。

After walking and stopping, and several times leaving off rubbing his head, and beginning again, my guardian put his hand upon the keys and stopped Mr. Skimpole’s playing. ‘I don’t like this, Skimpole,’ he said thoughtfully.
我的监护人走来走去，停下来，好几次不再揉揉他的头，又重新开始，然后把手放在琴键上，停止了斯金波尔先生的演奏。 “我不喜欢这样，斯金波尔，”他若有所思地说。

Mr. Skimpole, who had quite forgotten the subject, looked up surprised.
斯金波尔先生已经完全忘记了这个话题，他惊讶地抬起头来。

‘The man was necessary,’ pursued my guardian, walking backward and forward in the very short space between the piano and the end of the room and rubbing his hair up from the back of his head as if a high east wind had blown it into that form. ‘If we make such men necessary by our faults and follies, or by our want of worldly knowledge, or by our misfortunes, we must not revenge ourselves upon them. There was no harm in his trade. He maintained his children. One would like to know more about this.’
“这个人是必要的，”我的监护人追着他说，他在钢琴和房间尽头之间的很短的空间里来回走动，揉着后脑勺的头发，仿佛一阵东风吹进了头发。那种形式。 “如果我们因为自己的错误和愚蠢、或者因为缺乏世俗知识、或者因为我们的不幸而需要这样的人，那么我们绝不能向他们报复。他的生意没有坏处。他抚养着他的孩子们。人们想更多地了解这一点。

‘Oh! Coavinses?’ cried Mr. Skimpole, at length perceiving what he meant. ‘Nothing easier. A walk to Coavinses’ headquarters, and you can know what you will.’
'哦！ “科文斯？”斯金波尔先生喊道，他终于明白了他的意思。 '没有什么比这更容易的了。步行到科文斯总部，你就知道你会做什么。

Mr. Jarndyce nodded to us, who were only waiting for the signal. ‘Come! We will walk that way, my dears. Why not that way as soon as another!’ We were quickly ready and went out. Mr. Skimpole went with us and quite enjoyed the expedition. It was so new and so refreshing, he said, for him to want Coavinses instead of Coavinses wanting him!
贾迪斯先生向我们点点头，我们只是在等待信号。 '来！我们会走那条路，亲爱的。为什么不尽快这样呢！’我们很快就准备好了，就出去了。斯金波尔先生和我们一起去了，他非常享受这次探险。他说，这太新鲜了，太令人耳目一新了，他想要科文斯，而不是科文斯想要他！

He took us, first, to Cursitor Street, Chancery Lane, where there was a house with barred windows, which he called Coavinses’ Castle. On our going into the entry and ringing a bell, a very hideous boy came out of a sort of office and looked at us over a spiked wicket.
他首先带我们去了大法官巷的库西托街，那里有一座窗户装有铁栅栏的房子，他称之为科文斯城堡。当我们走进入口并按响门铃时，一个非常丑陋的男孩从某种办公室里走出来，透过带刺的检票门看着我们。

‘Who did you want?’ said the boy, fitting two of the spikes into his chin.
“你想要谁？”男孩一边说，一边将两根尖刺钉在下巴上。

‘There was a follower, or an officer, or something, here,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘who is dead.’
“这里有一个追随者，或者一个军官，或者什么东西，”贾迪斯先生说，“他已经死了。”

‘Yes?’ said the boy. ‘Well?’
“是吗？”男孩说。 '出色地？'

‘I want to know his name, if you please?’
“我想知道他的名字，可以吗？”

‘Name of Neckett,’ said the boy.
“内克特的名字。”男孩说道。

‘And his address?’
“他的地址呢？”

‘Bell Yard,’ said the boy. ‘Chandler’s shop, left hand side, name of Blinder.’
“钟院，”男孩说。 “钱德勒的商店，左手边，布林德的名字。”

‘Was he—I don’t know how to shape the question—‘ murmured my guardian, ‘industrious?’
“他——我不知道如何提出这个问题——”我的监护人低声说道，“勤奋吗？”

‘Was Neckett?’ said the boy. ‘Yes, wery much so. He was never tired of watching. He’d set upon a post at a street corner eight or ten hours at a stretch if he undertook to do it.’
“是内克特吗？”男孩问道。是的，非常如此。他总是看不厌烦。如果他愿意的话，他会连续八到十个小时在街角设立一个柱子。

‘He might have done worse,’ I heard my guardian soliloquize. ‘He might have undertaken to do it and not done it. Thank you. That’s all I want.’
“他可能做得更糟，”我听到我的监护人自言自语。 “他可能已经承诺要做这件事，但没有做到。谢谢。这就是我想要的。

We left the boy, with his head on one side and his arms on the gate, fondling and sucking the spikes, and went back to Lincoln’s Inn, where Mr. Skimpole, who had not cared to remain nearer Coavinses, awaited us. Then we all went to Bell Yard, a narrow alley at a very short distance. We soon found the chandler’s shop. In it was a good-natured-looking old woman with a dropsy, or an asthma, or perhaps both.
我们留下那个男孩，他的头偏在一侧，双臂放在门上，抚摸着并吮吸着钉子，然后回到林肯旅馆，不愿意靠近科文斯的斯金波尔先生在那里等着我们。然后我们就去了贝尔院，一条距离很近的窄巷。我们很快就找到了杂货店。里面有一位看上去和蔼可亲的老妇人，她患有浮肿病，或者哮喘病，或者两者兼而有之。

‘Neckett’s children?’ said she in reply to my inquiry. ‘Yes, Surely, miss. Three pair, if you please. Door right opposite the stairs.’ And she handed me the key across the counter.
“内克特的孩子们？”她回答我的问题时说道。 “是的，当然，小姐。如果可以的话，三对。门就在楼梯对面。”然后她把钥匙穿过柜台递给了我。

I glanced at the key and glanced at her, but she took it for granted that I knew what to do with it. As it could only be intended for the children’s door, I came out without askmg any more questions and led the way up the dark stairs. We went as quietly as we could, but four of us made some noise on the aged boards, and when we came to the second story we found we had disturbed a man who was standing there looking out of his room.
我看了一眼钥匙，又看了她一眼，但她理所当然地认为我知道该怎么处理它。由于它只能用于儿童门，所以我没有再问任何问题就出来了，带路走上黑暗的楼梯。我们尽可能安静地走着，但我们四个人在老化的木板上发出了一些噪音，当我们来到二楼时，我们发现我们打扰了一个站在那里向房间外望去的男人。

‘Is it Gridley that’s wanted?’ he said, fixing his eyes on me with an angry stare.
“是要找格里德利吗？”他说，用愤怒的目光盯着我。

‘No, sir,’ said I; ‘I am going higher up.’
“不，先生，”我说。 “我要去更高的地方。”

He looked at Ada, and at Mr. Jarndyce, and at Mr. Skimpole, fixing the same angry stare on each in succession as they passed and followed me. Mr. Jarndyce gave him good day. ‘Good day!’ he said abruptly and fiercely. He was a tall, sallow man with a careworn head on which but little hair remained, a deeply lined face, and prominent eyes. He had a combative look and a chafing, irritable manner which, associated with his figure—still large and powerful, though evidently in its decline—rather alarmed me. He had a pen in his hand, and in the glimpse I caught of his room in passing, I saw that it was covered with a litter of papers.
他看看艾达，看看贾迪斯先生，又看看斯金波尔先生，当他们走过并跟着我时，他连续用同样愤怒的目光盯着每个人。贾迪斯先生祝他度过了美好的一天。 “美好的一天！”他突然而激烈地说。他身材高大，脸色蜡黄，满头愁容，头发所剩无几，脸上布满深深的皱纹，眼睛突出。他的表情好斗，态度焦躁易怒，这与他的身材相联系——尽管明显在衰落，但身材仍然高大有力——让我感到相当震惊。他手里拿着一支笔，当我路过他的房间时，我看到里面堆满了一堆文件。

Leaving him standing there, we went up to the top room. I tapped at the door, and a little shrill voice inside said, ‘We are locked in. Mrs. Blinder’s got the key!’
留下他站在那里，我们上了顶层的房间。我敲了敲门，里面传来一个尖细的声音：“我们被锁在里面了。布林德太太拿到了钥匙！”

I applied the key on hearing this and opened the door. In a poor room with a sloping ceiling and containing very little furniture was a mite of a boy, some five or six years old, nursing and hushing a heavy child of eighteen months. There was no fire, though the weather was cold; both children were wrapped in some poor shawls and tippets as a substitute. Their clothing was not so warm, however, but that their noses looked red and pinched and their small figures shrunken as the boy walked up and down nursing and hushing the child with its head on his shoulder.
我一听这话就用钥匙打开了门。在一间天花板倾斜、家具很少的简陋房间里，有一个五六岁左右的小男孩，正在照顾和安抚一个十八个月大的大孩子。尽管天气寒冷，但没有生火。两个孩子都裹着一些破烂的披肩和披肩作为替代品。然而，他们的衣服并不那么暖和，但当男孩走来走去，把孩子的头靠在他的肩上时，他们的鼻子看起来又红又紧，他们的小身材也缩小了。

‘Who has locked you up here alone?’ we naturally asked.
“谁把你一个人关在这里？”我们自然地问道。

‘Charley,’ said the boy, standing still to gaze at us.
“查理，”男孩说，一动不动地站着看着我们。

‘Is Charley your brother?’
“查理是你哥哥吗？”

‘No. She’s my sister, Charlotte. Father called her Charley.’
'不。她是我的妹妹夏洛特。父亲叫她查理。

‘Are there any more of you besides Charley?’
“除了查理之外，你们还有其他人吗？”

‘Me,’ said the boy, ‘and Emma,’ patting the limp bonnet of the child he was nursing. ‘And Charley.’
“我，”男孩说，“还有艾玛，”拍拍他正在哺乳的孩子软软的帽子。 “还有查理。”

‘Where is Charley now?’
“查理现在在哪里？”

‘Out a-washing,’ said the boy, beginning to walk up and down again and taking the nankeen bonnet much too near the bedstead by trying to gaze at us at the same time.
“出去洗衣服了。”男孩说着，又开始走来走去，同时把那顶南京帽子离床架太近了，试图同时注视着我们。

We were looking at one another and at these two children when there came into the room a very little girl, childish in figure but shrewd and older-looking in the face—pretty-faced too—wearing a womanly sort of bonnet much too large for her and drying her bare arms on a womanly sort of apron. Her fingers were white and wrinkled with washing, and the soap-suds were yet smoking which she wiped off her arms. But for this, she might have been a child playing at washing and imitating a poor working-woman with a quick observation of the truth.
我们互相看着对方，看着这两个孩子，这时一个小女孩走进了房间，她身材稚气，但面容精明、苍老——脸蛋也很漂亮——戴着一顶女人味的帽子，帽子太大了。并用女性化的围裙擦干她裸露的手臂。她的手指因洗涤而变得苍白、皱巴巴的，她擦掉手臂上的肥皂沫，还在冒烟。如果不是这样，她可能只是一个玩洗衣的孩子，模仿一个快速观察真相的贫穷女工。

She had come running from some place in the neighbourhood and had made all the haste she could. Consequently, though she was very light, she was out of breath and could not speak at first, as she stood panting, and wiping her arms, and looking quietly at us.
她是从附近的某个地方跑来的，并且已经尽了最大的努力。结果，她虽然很轻，但一开始却气喘吁吁，说不出话来，只是气喘吁吁地站着，擦着胳膊，静静地看着我们。

‘Oh, here’s Charley!’ said the boy.
“哦，查理来了！”男孩说。

The child he was nursing stretched forth its arms and cried out to be taken by Charley. The little girl took it, in a womanly sort of manner belonging to the apron and the bonnet, and stood looking at us over the burden that clung to her most affectionately.
他正在哺乳的孩子张开双臂，哭喊着要查理抱走。小女孩接过它，以一种属于围裙和帽子的女人味，站在那儿，越过她最深情的负担，看着我们。

‘Is it possible,’ whispered my guardian as we put a chair for the little creature and got her to sit down with her load, the boy keeping close to her, holding to her apron, ‘that this child works for the rest? Look at this! For God’s sake, look at this!’
“有没有可能，”我的监护人低声说道，我们给这个小生物放了一把椅子，让她带着她的货物坐下，男孩紧紧地贴着她，抓着她的围裙，“这个孩子为其余的人工作吗？”看这个！看在上帝的份上，看看这个！”

It was a thing to look at. The three children close together, and two of them relying solely on the third, and the third so young and yet with an air of age and steadiness that sat so strangely on the childish figure.
这是一件值得一看的事情。三个孩子靠得很近，其中两个完全依赖第三个，而第三个则如此年轻，却带着一种上了年纪、稳重的神情，坐在这个孩子气的身影上显得如此奇怪。

‘Charley, Charley!’ said my guardian. ‘How old are you?’
“查理，查理！”我的监护人说。 '你今年多大？'

‘Over thirteen, sir,’ replied the child.
“先生，已经超过十三岁了，”孩子回答道。

‘Oh! What a great age,’ said my guardian. ‘What a great age, Charley!’
'哦！多么美好的年纪啊，”我的监护人说。 “多么美好的年纪啊，查理！”

I cannot describe the tenderness with which he spoke to her, half playfully yet all the more compassionately and mournfully.
我无法形容他对她说话时的温柔，一半是开玩笑，但更多的是同情和悲伤。

‘And do you live alone here with these babies, Charley?’ said my guardian.
“查理，你一个人和这些婴儿住在这里吗？”我的监护人说。

‘Yes, sir,’ returned the child, looking up into his face with perfect confidence, ‘since father died.’
“是的，先生，”孩子回答道，充满信心地抬头看着他的脸，“自从父亲去世以来。”

‘And how do you live, Charley? Oh! Charley,’ said my guardian, turning his face away for a moment, ‘how do you live?’
‘查理，你过着怎样的生活？哦！查理，”我的监护人把脸转过一会儿，说道，“你过着怎样的生活？

‘Since father died, sir, I’ve gone out to work. I’m out washing to-day.’
“先生，自从父亲去世后，我就出去工作了。我今天出去洗衣服了。”

‘God help you, Charley!’ said my guardian. ‘You’re not tall enough to reach the tub!’
“上帝保佑你，查理！”我的监护人说。 “你还不够高，够不到浴缸！”

‘In pattens I am, sir,’ she said quickly. ‘I’ve got a high pair as belonged to mother.’
“我是帕滕斯，先生，”她很快说道。 “我有一双属于母亲的高帮鞋。”

‘And when did mother die? Poor mother!’
‘妈妈什么时候死的？可怜的妈妈！

‘Mother died just after Emma was born,’ said the child, glancing at the face upon her bosom. ‘Then father said I was to be as good a mother to her as I could. And so I tried. And so I worked at home and did cleaning and nursing and washing for a long time before I began to go out. And that’s how I know how; don’t you see, sir?’
“艾玛出生后，母亲就去世了。”孩子看着她胸前的脸说道。 “然后父亲说我要尽我所能成为她的好母亲。所以我尝试了。所以我在家里干了很长一段时间的清洁、护理和洗衣工作，然后才开始出去。这就是我所知道的；你没看到吗，先生？

‘And do you often go out?’
“你经常出去吗？”

‘As often as I can,’ said Charley, opening her eyes and smiling, ‘because of earning sixpences and shillings!’
“只要有机会，”查莉睁开眼睛微笑着说，“因为能赚六便士和先令！”

‘And do you always lock the babies up when you go out?’
“你外出时总是把婴儿锁起来吗？”

‘To keep ‘em safe, sir, don’t you see?’ said Charley. ‘Mrs. Blinder comes up now and then, and Mr. Gridley comes up sometimes, and perhaps I can run in sometimes, and they can play you know, and Tom an’t afraid of being locked up, are you, Tom?’
“为了保证他们的安全，先生，你明白吗？”查理说。 '太太。布林德时不时地出现，格里德利先生有时也会出现，也许我有时可以跑进去，他们可以玩，你知道，汤姆不怕被关起来，是吗，汤姆？

‘’No-o!’ said Tom stoutly.
“不——哦！”汤姆坚决地说。

‘When it comes on dark, the lamps are lighted down in the court, and they show up here quite bright—almost quite bright. Don’t they, Tom?’
“天黑的时候，庭院里的灯都亮了，这里显得非常明亮——几乎非常明亮。不是吗，汤姆？

‘Yes, Charley,’ said Tom, ‘almost quite bright.’
“是的，查理，”汤姆说，“几乎很聪明。”

‘Then he’s as good as gold,’ said the little creature—Oh, in such a motherly, womanly way! ‘And when Emma’s tired, he puts her to bed. And when he’s tired he goes to bed himself. And when I come home and light the candle and has a bit of supper, he sits up again and has it with me. Don’t you, Tom?’
“那么他就和金子一样好，”这个小动物说——哦，以如此慈母般、女性般的方式！ “当艾玛累了的时候，他就会让她上床睡觉。当他累了的时候，他就会自己上床睡觉。当我回到家点燃蜡烛并吃点晚饭时，他又坐起来和我一起吃。你不是吗，汤姆？

‘Oh, yes, Charley!’ said Tom. ‘That I do!’ And either in this glimpse of the great pleasure of his life or in gratitude and love for Charley, who was all in all to him, he laid his face among the scanty folds of her frock and passed from laughing into crying.
“哦，是的，查理！”汤姆说。 “我愿意！”无论是瞥见了他生命中的巨大乐趣，还是出于对查理的感激和爱，查理是他的一切，他把脸埋在她连衣裙的稀疏褶皱中，从笑声变成了笑声。哭了。

It was the first time since our entry that a tear had been shed among these children. The little orphan girl had spoken of their father and their mother as if all that sorrow were subdued by the necessity of taking courage, and by her childish importance in being able to work, and by her bustling busy way. But now, when Tom cried, although she sat quite tranquil, looking quietly at us, and did not by any movement disturb a hair of the head of either of her little charges, I saw two silent tears fall down her face.
自从我们进来以来，这是这些孩子们第一次流泪。小孤女谈到他们的父亲和母亲，仿佛所有的悲伤都被鼓起勇气的必要性、她孩子气的工作能力和她忙碌的生活方式所抑制。但现在，当汤姆哭泣时，尽管她安静地坐着，静静地看着我们，没有任何动作惊动她的两个小孩子的一根头发，我看到两滴泪水无声地从她的脸上滑落。

I stood at the window with Ada, pretending to look at the housetops, and the blackened stack of chimneys, and the poor plants, and the birds in little cages belonging to the neighbours, when I found that Mrs. Blinder, from the shop below, had come in (perhaps it had taken her all this time to get upstairs) and was talking to my guardian.
我和艾达站在窗前，假装看着房顶、熏黑的烟囱、可怜的植物，还有邻居家小笼子里的鸟儿，这时我发现楼下商店里的布林德太太，进来了（也许她花了很长时间才上楼），正在和我的监护人说话。

‘It’s not much to forgive ‘em the rent, sir,’ she said; ‘who could take it from them!’
“先生，免除他们的房租并不算什么，”她说。 “谁能从他们手中夺走它！”

‘’Well, well!’ said my guardian to us two. ‘It is enough that the time will come when this good woman will find that it WAS much, and that forasmuch as she did it unto the least of these—This child,’ he added after a few moments, ‘could she possibly continue this?’
“好吧，好吧！”我的监护人对我们两个说道。 “到了这个时候，这个好女人就会发现，这已经足够了，因为她对这些人中最小的一个做了这件事——这个孩子，”过了一会儿，他补充道，“她能继续这个吗？” ？

‘Really, sir, I think she might,’ said Mrs. Blinder, getting her heavy breath by painful degrees. ‘She’s as handy as it’s possible to be. Bless you, sir, the way she tended them two children after the mother died was the talk of the yard! And it was a wonder to see her with him after he was took ill, it really was! ‘Mrs. Blinder,’ he said to me the very last he spoke—he was lying there —‘Mrs. Blinder, whatever my calling may have been, I see a angel sitting in this room last night along with my child, and I trust her to Our Father!’’
“真的，先生，我想她可能会这样，”布林德太太说，她的呼吸越来越沉重，感到痛苦。 “她真是太方便了。”上帝保佑您，先生，母亲去世后她照顾两个孩子的方式成了院子里的话题！他生病后看到她和他在一起真是一个奇迹，确实如此！ '太太。布林德，”他躺在那儿的最后一刻对我说，“布林德太太。布林德，无论我的使命是什么，昨晚我看到一位天使和我的孩子一起坐在这个房间里，我将她托付给我们的父亲！”

‘He had no other calling?’ said my guardian.
“他没有别的职业吗？”我的监护人说。

‘No, sir,’ returned Mrs. Blinder, ‘he was nothing but a follerers. When he first came to lodge here, I didn’t know what he was, and I confess that when I found out I gave him notice. It wasn’t liked in the yard. It wasn’t approved by the other lodgers. It is NOT a genteel calling,’ said Mrs. Blinder, ‘and most people do object to it. Mr. Gridley objected to it very strong, and he is a good lodger, though his temper has been hard tried.’
“不，先生，”布林德太太回答道，“他只不过是一个追随者。”当他第一次来这里住宿时，我不知道他是什么人，我承认当我发现时我就通知了他。院子里不受欢迎。它没有得到其他房客的批准。这不是一个优雅的召唤，”布林德夫人说，“而且大多数人确实反对它。格里德利先生非常强烈地反对，他是一个很好的房客，尽管他的脾气已经受到了考验。

‘So you gave him notice?’ said my guardian.
“所以你通知了他？”我的监护人说。

‘So I gave him notice,’ said Mrs. Blinder. ‘But really when the time came, and I knew no other ill of him, I was in doubts. He was punctual and diligent; he did what he had to do, sir,’ said Mrs. Blinder, unconsciously fixing Mr. Skimpole with her eye, ‘and it’s something in this world even to do that.’
“所以我通知了他，”布林德夫人说。 “但真正到了那个时候，我又不知道他有什么坏处，我就产生了怀疑。他准时、勤奋； “他做了他必须做的事，先生，”布林德夫人说，她的眼睛无意识地盯着斯金波尔先生，“即使这样做，这也是这个世界上的事情。”

‘So you kept him after all?’
“所以你还是留住了他？”

‘Why, I said that if he could arrange with Mr. Gridley, I could arrange it with the other lodgers and should not so much mind its being liked or disliked in the yard. Mr. Gridley gave his consent gruff—but gave it. He was always gruff with him, but he has been kind to the children since. A person is never known till a person is proved.’
“哎呀，我说过，如果他能和格里德利先生安排好，我就能和其他房客安排好，而且不应该太介意院子里的人喜欢或不喜欢它。格里德利先生粗声粗气地表示同意——但还是同意了。他总是对他很粗暴，但从那以后他对孩子们就很好了。在一个人被证明之前，一个人永远不会被认识。

‘Have many people been kind to the children?’ asked Mr. Jarndyce.
“很多人都善待孩子们吗？”贾迪斯先生问道。

‘Upon the whole, not so bad, sir,’ said Mrs. Blinder; ‘but certainly not so many as would have been if their father’s calling had been different. Mr. Coavins gave a guinea, and the follerers made up a little purse. Some neighbours in the yard that had always joked and tapped their shoulders when he went by came forward with a little subscription, and—in general—not so bad. Similarly with Charlotte. Some people won’t employ her because she was a follerer’s child; some people that do employ her cast it at her; some make a merit of having her to work for them, with that and all her draw-backs upon her, and perhaps pay her less and put upon her more. But she’s patienter than others would be, and is clever too, and always willing, up to the full mark of her strength and over. So I should say, in general, not so bad, sir, but might be better.’
“总的来说，还不错，先生，”布林德太太说。 “但如果他们父亲的使命不同的话，人数肯定不会那么多。”科文斯先生捐了一个几尼，追随者们凑了一个小钱包。院子里的一些邻居总是在他经过时开玩笑并拍拍肩膀，他们主动捐了一点钱，而且——总的来说——还不错。夏洛特也是如此。有些人不会雇用她，因为她是追随者的孩子。一些雇用她的人也对她持批评态度。有些人认为让她为他们工作是有好处的，尽管她的缺点和缺点都加在她身上，也许他们付给她的钱更少，但给她的负担却更多。但她比其他人更有耐心，也很聪明，而且总是愿意，充分发挥自己的力量。所以我应该说，总的来说，还不错，先生，但可能会更好。”

Mrs. Blinder sat down to give herself a more favourable opportunity of recovering her breath, exhausted anew by so much talking before it was fully restored. Mr. Jarndyce was turning to speak to us when his attention was attracted by the abrupt entrance into the room of the Mr. Gridley who had been mentioned and whom we had seen on our way up.
布林德夫人坐下来，给自己一个更有利的恢复呼吸的机会，在完全恢复呼吸之前，她因说话太多而再次疲惫不堪。贾迪斯先生正转身和我们说话，这时他的注意力被突然闯入房间的格里德利先生吸引了，我们在上楼的路上曾提到过他。

‘I don’t know what you may be doing here, ladies and gentlemen,’ he said, as if he resented our presence, ‘but you’ll excuse my coming in. I don’t come in to stare about me. Well, Charley! Well, Tom! Well, little one! How is it with us all to-day?’
“我不知道你们在这里做什么，女士们先生们，”他说道，好像他对我们的存在感到不满，“但是你们请原谅我进来。我进来不是为了盯着我看。”好吧，查理！好吧，汤姆！嗯，小家伙！今天我们大家怎么样？

He bent over the group in a caressing way and clearly was regarded as a friend by the children, though his face retained its stern character and his manner to us was as rude as it could be. My guardian noticed it and respected it.
他以一种爱抚的方式俯身在这群人身上，显然被孩子们视为朋友，尽管他的表情仍然保持着严肃的性格，而且他对我们的态度也非常粗鲁。我的监护人注意到了这一点并尊重它。

‘No one, surely, would come here to stare about him,’ he said mildly.
“当然，没有人会来这里盯着他看，”他温和地说。

‘May be so, sir, may be so,’ returned the other, taking Tom upon his knee and waving him off impatiently. ‘I don’t want to argue with ladies and gentlemen. I have had enough of arguing to last one man his life.’
“也许是这样，先生，也许是这样。”另一个人回答道，把汤姆抱在膝上，不耐烦地挥手让他走开。 “我不想与女士们先生们争论。我已经受够了争论，足以维持一个人的生命。

‘You have sufficient reason, I dare say,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘for being chafed and irritated—‘
“我敢说，”贾迪斯先生说，“你有充分的理由感到恼火和恼怒——”

‘There again!’ exclaimed the man, becoming violently angry. ‘I am of a quarrelsome temper. I am irascible. I am not polite!’
“又来了！”那人大声说道，变得非常愤怒。 ‘我的脾气很暴躁。我脾气暴躁。我没有礼貌！

‘Not very, I think.’
“我认为不太好。”

‘Sir,’ said Gridley, putting down the child and going up to him as if he meant to strike him, ‘do you know anything of Courts of Equity?’
“先生，”格里德利放下孩子，走到他面前，好像要打他，“您了解衡平法院吗？”

‘Perhaps I do, to my sorrow.’
“也许我会这么做，但令我悲伤的是。”

‘To your sorrow?’ said the man, pausing in his wrath. ‘if so, I beg your pardon. I am not polite, I know. I beg your pardon! Sir,’ with renewed violence, ‘I have been dragged for five and twenty years over burning iron, and I have lost the habit of treading upon velvet. Go into the Court of Chancery yonder and ask what is one of the standing jokes that brighten up their business sometimes, and they will tell you that the best joke they have is the man from Shropshire. I,’ he said, beating one hand on the other passionately, ‘am the man from Shropshire.’
“让你伤心吗？”男人怒气冲冲地说道。 ‘如果是这样，请原谅。我没有礼貌，我知道。请再说一遍！先生，”再次暴怒道，“我已经在烧铁上拖了五年、二十年了，我已经失去了踩天鹅绒的习惯。走进那边的大法官法庭，询问有时可以让他们的生意变得有趣的笑话之一，他们会告诉你，他们最好的笑话是那个来自什罗普郡的人。 “我，”他热情地用一只手拍打着另一只手说道，“我是来自什罗普郡的人。”

‘I believe I and my family have also had the honour of furnishing some entertainment in the same grave place,’ said my guardian composedly. ‘You may have heard my name—Jarndyce.’
“我相信我和我的家人也有幸在同一个坟墓里提供了一些娱乐活动，”我的监护人平静地说。 “你可能听说过我的名字——贾迪斯。”

‘Mr. Jarndyce,’ said Gridley with a rough sort of salutation, ‘you bear your wrongs more quietly than I can bear mine. More than that, I tell you—and I tell this gentleman, and these young ladies, if they are friends of yours—that if I took my wrongs in any other way, I should be driven mad! It is only by resenting them, and by revenging them in my mind, and by angrily demanding the justice I never get, that I am able to keep my wits together. It is only that!’ he said, speaking in a homely, rustic way and with great vehemence. ‘You may tell me that I over-excite myself. I answer that it’s in my nature to do it, under wrong, and I must do it. There’s nothing between doing it, and sinking into the smiling state of the poor little mad woman that haunts the court. If I was once to sit down under it, I should become imbecile.’
'先生。贾迪斯，”格里德利粗暴地行礼道，“你承受自己的错误比我承受自己的错误更安静。不仅如此，我告诉你——我告诉这位先生和这些年轻女士，如果他们是你的朋友的话——如果我以任何其他方式接受我的错误，我就会发疯！只有怨恨他们，在心里报复他们，愤怒地要求我从未得到的正义，我才能保持理智。仅此而已！”他说，语气平淡、质朴，语气十分激烈。 “你可能会告诉我，我自己太兴奋了。我回答说，这样做是我的本性，即使是错误的，我也必须这样做。这样做和陷入法庭上那个出没的可怜的小疯女人的微笑状态之间没有什么关系。如果我曾经坐在它下面，我就会变得愚蠢。

The passion and heat in which he was, and the manner in which his face worked, and the violent gestures with which he accompanied what he said, were most painful to see.
他的热情和热情，他脸上的表情，以及他说话时的暴力手势，都是最令人痛苦的。

‘Mr. Jarndyce,’ he said, ‘consider my case. As true as there is a heaven above us, this is my case. I am one of two brothers. My father (a farmer) made a will and left his farm and stock and so forth to my mother for her life. After my mother’s death, all was to come to me except a legacy of three hundred pounds that I was then to pay my brother. My mother died. My brother some time afterwards claimed his legacy. I and some of my relations said that he had had a part of it already in board and lodging and some other things. Now mind! That was the question, and nothing else. No one disputed the will; no one disputed anything but whether part of that three hundred pounds had been already paid or not. To settle that question, my brother filing a bill, I was obliged to go into this accursed Chancery; I was forced there because the law forced me and would let me go nowhere else. Seventeen people were made defendants to that simple suit! It first came on after two years. It was then stopped for another two years while the master (may his head rot off!) inquired whether I was my father’s son, about which there was no dispute at all with any mortal creature. He then found out that there were not defendants enough—remember, there were only seventeen as yet!—but that we must have another who had been left out and must begin all over again. The costs at that time—before the thing was begun!—were three times the legacy. My brother would have given up the legacy, and joyful, to escape more costs. My whole estate, left to me in that will of my father’s, has gone in costs. The suit, still undecided, has fallen into rack, and ruin, and despair, with everything else—and here I stand, this day! Now, Mr. Jarndyce, in your suit there are thousands and thousands involved, where in mine there are hundreds. Is mine less hard to bear or is it harder to bear, when my whole living was in it and has been thus shamefully sucked away?’
'先生。贾迪斯，”他说，“考虑一下我的情况。正如我们头顶上有一个天堂一样，这就是我的情况。我是两个兄弟之一。我父亲（农民）立了遗嘱，把他的农场和牲畜等留给了我母亲生活。我母亲去世后，一切都归我所有，除了我当时要付给我哥哥的三百英镑遗产。我母亲去世了。一段时间后，我的兄弟领取了他的遗产。我和我的一些亲戚说，他已经把一部分钱放在了食宿和其他一些东西上。现在介意！这就是问题，除此之外没有别的。没有人对遗嘱提出异议；除了这三百英镑中的一部分是否已经支付之外，没有人对任何事情提出异议。为了解决这个问题，我的兄弟提出了一项法案，我不得不走进这个该死的大法官办公室；我被迫去那里是因为法律强迫我，不让我去其他地方。就这件简单的诉讼，有十七个人成为被告！它是在两年后首次出现的。然后又停了两年，而主人（愿他的头烂掉！）询问我是否是我父亲的儿子，对此与任何凡人都没有任何争议。然后他发现被告人数不够——记住，目前只有十七人！——但我们必须有另一个被排除在外的人，必须重新开始。当时的成本——在事情开始之前！——是遗产的三倍。我的兄弟会很高兴地放弃遗产，以逃避更多的费用。我父亲遗嘱中留给我的全部财产都已投入成本。这套诉讼，仍未决定，已经和其他一切一样陷入了困境、毁灭和绝望——而今天我站在这里！现在，先生。 贾迪斯，你的诉讼涉及成千上万的人，而我的诉讼有数百人。当我的全部生命都在其中并被可耻地吸走时，我的生活是更难忍受还是更难忍受？’

Mr. Jarndyce said that he condoled with him with all his heart and that he set up no monopoly himself in being unjustly treated by this monstrous system.
贾迪斯先生表示，他对他表示全心全意的哀悼，并表示他自己受到这个可怕制度的不公正对待并不意味着他有任何垄断行为。

‘There again!’ said Mr. Gridley with no diminution of his rage. ‘The system! I am told on all hands, it’s the system. I mustn’t look to individuals. It’s the system. I mustn’t go into court and say, ‘My Lord, I beg to know this from you—is this right or wrong? Have you the face to tell me I have received justice and therefore am dismissed?’ My Lord knows nothing of it. He sits there to administer the system. I mustn’t go to Mr. Tulkinghorn, the solicitor in Lincoln’s Inn Fields, and say to him when he makes me furious by being so cool and satisfied—as they all do, for I know they gain by it while I lose, don’t I?—I mustn’t say to him, ‘I will have something out of some one for my ruin, by fair means or foul!’ HE is not responsible. It’s the system. But, if I do no violence to any of them, here—I may! I don’t know what may happen if I am carried beyond myself at last! I will accuse the individual workers of that system against me, face to face, before the great eternal bar!’
“又来了！”格里德利先生说道，他的愤怒丝毫没有减弱。 '系统！大家都告诉我，这是系统。我不能把目光投向个人。这是系统。我不能走进法庭说：‘法官大人，我恳求您知道这一点——这是对还是错？你有脸告诉我，我已经得到了正义，因此被解雇了？’我的主对此一无所知。他坐在那里管理系统。当塔尔金霍恩先生（林肯律师学院的律师）表现得如此冷静和满足而让我大发雷霆时，我不能去找他，对他说——正如他们所有人所做的那样，因为我知道他们从中受益，而我却输了，不要我不是吗？——我不能对他说，“我会为了我的毁灭而从某人那里得到一些东西，不管是通过公平还是不正当的手段！”他不负有责任。这是系统。但是，如果我不对他们中的任何一个人实施暴力，在这里——我可以！我不知道如果我最终超越自我会发生什么！我将在伟大的永恒酒吧面前，面对面地指控该系统的个别工人反对我！

His passion was fearful. I could not have believed in such rage without seeing it.
他的热情令人恐惧。如果没有亲眼目睹，我简直不敢相信会有这样的愤怒。

‘I have done!’ he said, sitting down and wiping his face. ‘Mr. Jarndyce, I have done! I am violent, I know. I ought to know it. I have been in prison for contempt of court. I have been in prison for threatening the solicitor. I have been in this trouble, and that trouble, and shall be again. I am the man from Shropshire, and I sometimes go beyond amusing them, though they have found it amusing, too, to see me committed into custody and brought up in custody and all that. It would be better for me, they tell me, if I restrained myself. I tell them that if I did restrain myself I should become imbecile. I was a good-enough-tempered man once, I believe. People in my part of the country say they remember me so, but now I must have this vent under my sense of injury or nothing could hold my wits together. It would be far better for you, Mr. Gridley,’ the Lord Chancellor told me last week, ‘not to waste your time here, and to stay, usefully employed, down in Shropshire.’ ‘My Lord, my Lord, I know it would,’ said I to him, ‘and it would have been far better for me never to have heard the name of your high office, but unhappily for me, I can’t undo the past, and the past drives me here!’ Besides,’ he added, breaking fiercely out, ‘I’ll shame them. To the last, I’ll show myself in that court to its shame. If I knew when I was going to die, and could be carried there, and had a voice to speak with, I would die there, saying, ‘You have brought me here and sent me from here many and many a time. Now send me out feet foremost!’’
“我已经做到了！”他一边说，一边坐下来擦脸。 '先生。贾迪斯，我做到了！我很暴力，我知道。我应该知道的。我因藐视法庭而入狱。我因威胁律师而入狱。我曾经遇到过这样的麻烦，那样的麻烦，以后还会再遇到。我是来自什罗普郡的人，有时我不仅让他们感到好笑，尽管他们也觉得看到我被拘留、被拘留以及诸如此类的事情很有趣。他们告诉我，如果我克制自己，对我来说会更好。我告诉他们，如果我真的克制自己，我就会变得低能。我相信，我曾经是一个脾气很好的人。我所在地区的人们说他们记得我，但现在我必须在受伤的感觉下发泄，否则没有什么可以让我保持理智。格里德利先生，大法官上周对我说，“不要在这里浪费时间，留在什罗普郡，做有用的工作，对你来说会好得多。”“大人，大人，我知道”我对他说，“对我来说，如果我从来没有听说过你的高级职位的名字，那就好得多，但对我来说不幸的是，我无法挽回过去，而过去却把我赶到了这里！ ”此外，他猛烈地说道，“我会让他们感到羞耻。最后，我将在法庭上让自己蒙羞。如果我知道我什么时候会死，并且可以被带到那里，并且有一个声音可以说话，我会死在那里，说：‘你多次把我带到这里，又把我从这里送走。现在让我先出去！”

His countenance had, perhaps for years, become so set in its contentious expression that it did not soften, even now when he was quiet.
也许多年来，他的脸上一直充满争议性的表情，即使现在他安静下来，也没有软化。

‘I came to take these babies down to my room for an hour,’ he said, going to them again, ‘and let them play about. I didn’t mean to say all this, but it don’t much signify. You’re not afraid of me, Tom, are you?’
“我来是为了带这些婴儿到我的房间待一个小时，”他说着又走到他们身边，“让他们玩耍。”我本来不想说这些，但意义不大。汤姆，你不怕我，是吗？

‘No!’ said Tom. ‘You ain’t angry with ME.’
“不！”汤姆说。 “你没有生我的气。”

‘You are right, my child. You’re going back, Charley? Aye? Come then, little one!’ He took the youngest child on his arm, where she was willing enough to be carried. ‘I shouldn’t wonder if we found a ginger-bread soldier downstairs. Let’s go and look for him!’
‘你是对的，我的孩子。你要回去吗，查理？是吗？来吧，小家伙！”他把最小的孩子抱在怀里，她很乐意抱着。 “我不应该怀疑我们是否在楼下发现了姜饼士兵。我们去找他吧！

He made his former rough salutation, which was not deficient in a certain respect, to Mr. Jarndyce, and bowing slightly to us, went downstairs to his room.
他向贾迪斯先生行了以前粗暴的行礼，这在某种程度上并不缺乏，然后向我们微微鞠了一躬，然后下楼回到了他的房间。

Upon that, Mr. Skimpole began to talk, for the first time since our arrival, in his usual gay strain. He said, Well, it was really very pleasant to see how things lazily adapted themselves to purposes. Here was this Mr. Gridley, a man of a robust will and surprising energy—intellectually speaking, a sort of inharmonious blacksmith—and he could easily imagine that there Gridley was, years ago, wandering about in life for something to expend his superfluous combativeness upon—a sort of Young Love among the thorns—when the Court of Chancery came in his way and accommodated him with the exact thing he wanted. There they were, matched, ever afterwards! Otherwise he might have been a great general, blowing up all sorts of towns, or he might have been a great politician, dealing in all sorts of parliamentary rhetoric; but as it was, he and the Court of Chancery had fallen upon each other in the pleasantest way, and nobody was much the worse, and Gridley was, so to speak, from that hour provided for. Then look at Coavinses! How delightfully poor Coavinses (father of these charming children) illustrated the same principle! He, Mr. Skimpole, himself, had sometimes repined at the existence of Coavinses. He had found Coavinses in his way. He could had dispensed with Coavinses. There had been times when, if he had been a sultan, and his grand vizier had said one morning, ‘What does the Commander of the Faithful require at the hands of his slave?’ he might have even gone so far as to reply, ‘The head of Coavinses!’ But what turned out to be the case? That, all that time, he had been giving employment to a most deserving man, that he had been a benefactor to Coavinses, that he had actually been enabling Coavinses to bring up these charming children in this agreeable way, developing these social virtues! Insomuch that his heart had just now swelled and the tears had come into his eyes when he had looked round the room and thought, ‘I was the great patron of Coavinses, and his little comforts were MY work!’
就在这时，斯金波尔先生开始用他一贯的欢快语气说话，这是我们抵达以来的第一次。他说，嗯，看到事物如何懒洋洋地适应自己的目的，真的很令人愉快。这就是格里德利先生，一个有着坚强意志和惊人能量的人——从理智上来说，他是一个不和谐的铁匠——他很容易想象，几年前格里德利就在那里，在生活中徘徊，寻找一些东西来消耗他多余的好斗性。当大法官法院介入并为他提供了他想要的东西时，这就像一种荆棘中的年轻爱情。他们就在那里，相配，从此以后！否则他可能是一位伟大的将军，炸毁了各种城镇，或者他可能是一位伟大的政治家，处理各种议会言论；但事实上，他和大法官法院以最愉快的方式相互争斗，没有人比他更糟糕，可以说，从那时起，格里德利就得到了照顾。那就看看科文斯吧！可怜的科文斯（这些可爱的孩子的父亲）多么令人愉快地阐释了同样的原理！他，斯金波尔先生本人，有时也对科文斯的存在感到不满。他发现科文斯挡住了他的路。他本来可以不用科文斯。有时候，如果他是一位苏丹，他的大宰相有一天早上说：“忠诚者的指挥官对他的奴隶有什么要求？”他甚至可能会回答： “科文斯的头！”但结果是什么呢？ 一直以来，他一直在为一个最值得的人提供工作，他一直是科文斯的恩人，他实际上一直在帮助科文斯以这种令人愉快的方式抚养这些迷人的孩子，培养这些社会美德！当他环顾房间并想到：“我是科文斯的伟大赞助人，他的小小安慰是我的工作！’

There was something so captivating in his light way of touching these fantastic strings, and he was such a mirthful child by the side of the graver childhood we had seen, that he made my guardian smile even as he turned towards us from a little private talk with Mrs. Blinder. We kissed Charley, and took her downstairs with us, and stopped outside the house to see her run away to her work. I don’t know where she was going, but we saw her run, such a little, little creature in her womanly bonnet and apron, through a covered way at the bottom of the court and melt into the city’s strife and sound like a dewdrop in an ocean.
他以轻松的方式触动这些奇妙的琴弦，有一种令人着迷的感觉，在我们所见过的严肃的童年中，他是一个如此快乐的孩子，即使当他从私人谈话中转向我们时，他也让我的监护人微笑。和布林德夫人。我们吻了查理，带她下楼，在屋外停了下来，看着她跑去工作。我不知道她要去哪里，但我们看到她奔跑，一个戴着女性帽子和围裙的小生物，穿过球场底部的一条有遮盖的通道，融入城市的冲突中，声音像露珠一样在海洋中。

CHAPTER XVI
第十六章


Tom-all-Alone’s
汤姆独自一人

My Lady Dedlock is restless, very restless. The astonished fashionable intelligence hardly knows where to have her. To-day she is at Chesney Wold; yesterday she was at her house in town; tomorrow she may be abroad, for anything the fashionable intelligence can with confidence predict. Even Sir Leicester’s gallantry has some trouble to keep pace with her. It would have more but that his other faithful ally, for better and for worse—the gout—darts into the old oak bedchamber at Chesney Wold and grips him by both legs.
戴德洛克夫人焦躁不安，非常焦躁不安。令人惊讶的时尚智慧几乎不知道她在哪里。今天她在切斯尼沃尔德；昨天她在城里的家里；明天她可能会出国，时尚界人士可以自信地预测到这一点。即使是莱斯特爵士的英勇也难以跟上她的步伐。如果不是他的另一个忠实盟友——痛风——冲进切斯尼沃尔德的旧橡木卧室，抓住他的双腿，情况可能会更多。

Sir Leicester receives the gout as a troublesome demon, but still a demon of the patrician order. All the Dedlocks, in the direct male line, through a course of time during and beyond which the memory of man goeth not to the contrary, have had the gout. It can be proved, sir. Other men’s fathers may have died of the rheumatism or may have taken base contagion from the tainted blood of the sick vulgar, but the Dedlock family have communicated something exclusive even to the levelling process of dying by dying of their own family gout. It has come down through the illustrious line like the plate, or the pictures, or the place in Lincolnshire. It is among their dignities. Sir Leicester is perhaps not wholly without an impression, though he has never resolved it into words, that the angel of death in the discharge of his necessary duties may observe to the shades of the aristocracy, ‘My lords and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you another Dedlock certified to have arrived per the family gout.’
莱斯特爵士将痛风视为麻烦的恶魔，但仍然是贵族阶层的恶魔。所有的戴德洛克家族，在男性直系血统中，在人类的记忆中和之后的一段时间内都患有痛风。这是可以证明的，先生。其他男人的父亲可能死于风湿病，或者可能是从普通病人的受污染的血液中感染了卑鄙的传染病，但戴德洛克家族却传达了一些独特的信息，甚至是死于他们自己的家族痛风的死亡过程。它就像盘子、图片或林肯郡的地方一样，是通过显赫的线条流传下来的。这是他们的尊严之一。莱斯特爵士也许并非完全没有这样的印象，尽管他从未将其化为言语，死亡天使在履行其必要职责时可能会观察贵族的阴影，“我的勋爵和先生们，我很荣幸向您展示另一个经过认证的 Dedlock，它是针对家庭痛风而到达的。

Hence Sir Leicester yields up his family legs to the family disorder as if he held his name and fortune on that feudal tenure. He feels that for a Dedlock to be laid upon his back and spasmodically twitched and stabbed in his extremities is a liberty taken somewhere, but he thinks, ‘We have all yielded to this; it belongs to us; it has for some hundreds of years been understood that we are not to make the vaults in the park interesting on more ignoble terms; and I submit myself to the compromise.
因此，莱斯特爵士将他的家庭腿交给了家庭混乱，就好像他在封建统治下保留了自己的名字和财产一样。他觉得，让戴德洛克仰面躺着，痉挛性地抽搐，刺伤他的四肢，这算是一种自由，但他想，‘我们都屈服了；我们都屈服了；我们都屈服了。它属于我们；数百年来人们一直明白，我们不应该以更卑鄙的方式使公园里的拱顶变得有趣；我屈服于妥协。

And a goodly show he makes, lying in a flush of crimson and gold in the midst of the great drawing-room before his favourite picture of my Lady, with broad strips of sunlight shining in, down the long perspective, through the long line of windows, and alternating with soft reliefs of shadow. Outside, the stately oaks, rooted for ages in the green ground which has never known ploughshare, but was still a chase when kings rode to battle with sword and shield and rode a-hunting with bow and arrow, bear witness to his greatness. Inside, his forefathers, looking on him from the walls, say, ‘Each of us was a passing reality here and left this coloured shadow of himself and melted into remembrance as dreamy as the distant voices of the rooks now lulling you to rest,’ and hear their testimony to his greatness too. And he is very great this day. And woe to Boythorn or other daring wight who shall presumptuously contest an inch with him!
他做了一场精彩的表演，躺在大客厅中央的深红色和金色的红晕中，面前是他最喜欢的夫人的照片，宽阔的阳光从长长的视野中穿过长长的线条照射进来。窗户，并与柔和的阴影浮雕交替。外面，庄严的橡树在绿色的土地上扎根了很多年，这里从未有过犁铧，但当国王们骑着剑和盾牌作战，骑着弓和箭狩猎时，它们仍然是追逐的对象，见证了他的伟大。在里面，他的祖先从墙上看着他，说：“我们每个人都是这里转瞬即逝的现实，留下了自己的彩色影子，融入了记忆，就像远处白嘴鸦的声音现在让你安息一样梦幻。”并聆听他们对他的伟大的见证。他这一天非常出色。博伊索恩或其他胆敢与他较量的恶棍有祸了！

My Lady is at present represented, near Sir Leicester, by her portrait. She has flitted away to town, with no intention of remaining there, and will soon flit hither again, to the confusion of the fashionable intelligence. The house in town is not prepared for her reception. It is muffled and dreary. Only one Mercury in powder gapes disconsolate at the hall-window; and he mentioned last night to another Mercury of his acquaintance, also accustomed to good society, that if that sort of thing was to last—which it couldn’t, for a man of his spirits couldn’t bear it, and a man of his figure couldn’t be expected to bear it—there would be no resource for him, upon his honour, but to cut his throat!
目前，莱斯特爵士附近有夫人的肖像。她已经飞到城里去了，无意留在那里，而且很快就会再次飞到这里，让时尚界的知识分子感到困惑。镇上的房子还没有准备好接待她。它是低沉而沉闷的。只有一颗裹着粉末的水星在大厅的窗户上张着嘴，忧郁地张着嘴；昨晚他向他的另一位熟人墨丘利提到，他也习惯了上流社会，如果这种事情能够持续下去的话——但这是不可能的，因为一个有精神的人无法忍受它，一个有道德的人也无法忍受。他的身材无法承受——以他的名誉来说，除了割断他的喉咙之外，他别无选择！

What connexion can there be between the place in Lincolnshire, the house in town, the Mercury in powder, and the whereabout of Jo the outlaw with the broom, who had that distant ray of light upon him when he swept the churchyard-step? What connexion can there have been between many people in the innumerable histories of this world who from opposite sides of great gulfs have, nevertheless, been very curiously brought together!
林肯郡的那个地方、镇上的房子、粉末中的水星号，以及拿着扫帚的亡命之徒乔的下落，当他扫墓地的台阶时，远处的光线照在他身上，这之间有什么联系呢？在这个世界无数的历史中，来自鸿沟对岸的许多人却非常奇怪地聚集在一起！

Jo sweeps his crossing all day long, unconscious of the link, if any link there be. He sums up his mental condition when asked a question by replying that he ‘don’t know nothink.’ He knows that it’s hard to keep the mud off the crossing in dirty weather, and harder still to live by doing it. Nobody taught him even that much; he found it out.
乔整天打扫十字路口，没有意识到其中的联系，如果有的话。当有人问他的问题时，他总结自己的精神状况，回答说“不知道。”他知道，在恶劣的天气里，很难让泥浆远离十字路口，而这样做更难维持生活。甚至没有人教过他那么多。他发现了。

Jo lives—that is to say, Jo has not yet died—in a ruinous place known to the like of him by the name of Tom-all-Alone’s. It is a black, dilapidated street, avoided by all decent people, where the crazy houses were seized upon, when their decay was far advanced, by some bold vagrants who after establishing their own possession took to letting them out in lodgings. Now, these tumbling tenements contain, by night, a swarm of misery. As on the ruined human wretch vermin parasites appear, so these ruined shelters have bred a crowd of foul existence that crawls in and out of gaps in walls and boards; and coils itself to sleep, in maggot numbers, where the rain drips in; and comes and goes, fetching and carrying fever and sowing more evil in its every footprint than Lord Coodle, and Sir Thomas Doodle, and the Duke of Foodle, and all the fine gentlemen in office, down to Zoodle, shall set right in five hundred years—though born expressly to do it.
乔生活在——也就是说，乔还没有死——一个像他这样的人都知道的破烂地方，名字叫“孤单汤姆”。这是一条黑色、破旧的街道，所有正派的人都避开这里，那里那些疯狂的房子，当它们腐烂得很厉害时，就被一些大胆的流浪者占领了，他们在建立了自己的财产后，开始把它们出租出去。现在，这些摇摇欲坠的房屋在夜间充满了痛苦。正如在被毁坏的人类可怜的寄生虫上出现一样，这些被毁坏的庇护所也滋生了一群肮脏的生物，它们在墙壁和木板的缝隙中爬进爬出；并在雨水滴落的地方盘绕着成群的蛆虫睡觉；来来去去，带着发烧，在每一个足迹中播下比库德尔勋爵、托马斯·杜德尔爵士、福德尔公爵以及所有在职的优秀绅士，直到佐德尔，都将在五百英里内集合起来的邪恶。岁月——尽管生来就是为了这样做。

Twice lately there has been a crash and a cloud of dust, like the springing of a mine, in Tom-all-Alone’s; and each time a house has fallen. These accidents have made a paragraph in the newspapers and have filled a bed or two in the nearest hospital. The gaps remain, and there are not unpopular lodgings among the rubbish. As several more houses are nearly ready to go, the next crash in Tomall-Alone’s may be expected to be a good one.
最近，汤姆独自屋里发生了两次撞击声，扬起一团灰尘，就像地雷弹出一样。每当有一座房子倒塌时。这些事故登上了报纸，并在最近的医院里填满了一两张床位。差距依然存在，垃圾之中也不乏不受欢迎的住所。随着另外几栋房屋即将竣工，托马尔-阿隆的下一次崩溃可能会是一场好事。

This desirable property is in Chancery, of course. It would be an insult to the discernment of any man with half an eye to tell him so. Whether ‘Tom’ is the popular representative of the original plaintiff or defendant in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, or whether Tom lived here when the suit had laid the street waste, all alone, until other settlers came to join him, or whether the traditional title is a comprehensive name for a retreat cut off from honest company and put out of the pale of hope, perhaps nobody knows. Certainly Jo don’t know.
当然，这个令人向往的房产位于 Chancery。告诉他这些，对任何一个有半只眼睛的人的洞察力来说都是一种侮辱。无论“汤姆”是加迪斯和加迪斯案中原告或被告的大众代表，还是当诉讼将街道变成废墟时，汤姆是否独自住在这里，直到其他定居者前来加入他的行列，或者传统的头衔是否是也许没有人知道，这是一个与诚实的公司隔绝、失去希望的撤退的综合名称。乔当然不知道。

‘For I don’t,’ says Jo, ‘I don’t know nothink.’
“因为我不知道，”乔说，“我什么也不知道。”

It must be a strange state to be like Jo! To shuffle through the streets, unfamiliar with the shapes, and in utter darkness as to the meaning, of those mysterious symbols, so abundant over the shops, and at the corners of streets, and on the doors, and in the windows! To see people read, and to see people write, and to see the postmen deliver letters, and not to have the least idea of all that language—to be, to every scrap of it, stone blind and dumb! It must be very puzzling to see the good company going to the churches on Sundays, with their books in their hands, and to think (for perhaps Jo DOES think at odd times) what does it all mean, and if it means anything to anybody, how comes it that it means nothing to me? To be hustled, and jostled, and moved on; and really to feel that it would appear to be perfectly true that I have no business here, or there, or anywhere; and yet to be perplexed by the consideration that I AM here somehow, too, and everybody overlooked me until I became the creature that I am! It must be a strange state, not merely to be told that I am scarcely human (as in the case of my offering myself for a witness), but to feel it of my own knowledge all my life! To see the horses, dogs, and cattle go by me and to know that in ignorance I belong to them and not to the superior beings in my shape, whose delicacy I offend! Jo’s ideas of a criminal trial, or a judge, or a bishop, or a govemment, or that inestimable jewel to him (if he only knew it) the Constitution, should be strange! His whole material and immaterial life is wonderfully strange; his death, the strangest thing of all.
像乔那样的状态一定很奇怪吧！拖着脚步穿过街道，那些神秘的符号在商店里、街角、门上、窗户上随处可见，它们的形状完全陌生，其意义也完全不可知！看到人们读书，看到人们写字，看到邮递员送信，却对所有这些语言一无所知——对它的每一个片段都是盲目和愚蠢的！看到一群好朋友在周日去教堂，手里拿着书，并思考（也许乔确实在奇怪的时候思考）这一切意味着什么，以及这对任何人是否意味着什么，一定是非常令人困惑的，怎么对我来说毫无意义呢？被推挤、推挤，然后继续前行；并真正感觉到我在这里、那里或任何地方都没有事，这似乎是完全正确的；然而，我却不知何故也在这里，而每个人都忽视了我，直到我成为我这样的生物，这让我感到困惑！这一定是一种奇怪的状态，不仅是被告知我几乎不是人类（就像我提供自己作为证人的情况一样），而且是我一生都用我自己的知识来感受它！看到马、狗和牛从我身边经过，我就知道，在无知中，我属于它们，而不是属于我形状的高级生物，我冒犯了它们的美味！乔关于刑事审判、法官、主教、政府、或者对他来说无价之宝（如果他只知道的话）宪法的想法应该是奇怪的！他的整个物质和非物质生活都非常奇怪。他的死是最奇怪的事情。

Jo comes out of Tom-all-Alone’s, meeting the tardy morning which is always late in getting down there, and munches his dirty bit of bread as he comes along. His way lying through many streets, and the houses not yet being open, he sits down to breakfast on the door-step of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts and gives it a brush when he has finished as an acknowledgment of the accommodation. He admires the size of the edifice and wonders what it’s all about. He has no idea, poor wretch, of the spiritual destitution of a coral reef in the Pacific or what it costs to look up the precious souls among the coco-nuts and bread-fruit.
乔从汤姆独自屋里出来，迎接迟到的早晨，总是很晚才下楼，他一边走一边嚼着脏面包。他穿过许多街道，房屋还没有开放，他在国外福音传播协会的门口坐下来吃早餐，吃完后，他用刷子刷了一下，以示对他的认可。住宿。他钦佩这座建筑的规模，并想知道它的全部内容。他不知道，可怜的家伙，太平洋珊瑚礁的精神匮乏，也不知道在椰子和面包果中寻找宝贵的灵魂需要付出什么代价。

He goes to his crossing and begins to lay it out for the day. The town awakes; the great tee-totum is set up for its daily spin and whirl; all that unaccountable reading and writing, which has been suspended for a few hours, recommences. Jo and the other lower animals get on in the unintelligible mess as they can. It is market-day. The blinded oxen, over-goaded, over-driven, never guided, run into wrong places and are beaten out, and plunge redeyed and foaming at stone walls, and often sorely hurt the innocent, and often sorely hurt themselves. Very like Jo and his order; very, very like!
他走到十字路口，开始安排当天的行程。小镇苏醒了；巨大的发球台是为了日常旋转而设置的；所有那些已经暂停了几个小时的不负责任的阅读和写作又重新开始。乔和其他低等动物尽其所能地在难以理解的混乱中相处。今天是集市日。盲目的牛，被过度刺激，过度驱赶，从未被引导，跑到错误的地方被殴打，然后跌倒在石墙上，眼睛红了，吐着泡沫，常常严重伤害无辜者，也常常严重伤害自己。非常喜欢乔和他的订单；非常非常喜欢！

A band of music comes and plays. Jo listens to it. So does a dog —a drover’s dog, waiting for his master outside a butcher’s shop, and evidently thinking about those sheep he has had upon his mind for some hours and is happily rid of. He seems perplexed respecting three or four, can’t remember where he left them, looks up and down the street as half expecting to see them astray, suddenly pricks up his ears and remembers all about it. A thoroughly vagabond dog, accustomed to low company and publichouses; a terrific dog to sheep, ready at a whistle to scamper over their backs and tear out mouthfuls of their wool; but an educated, improved, developed dog who has been taught his duties and knows how to discharge them. He and Jo listen to the music, probably with much the same amount of animal satisfaction; likewise as to awakened association, aspiration, or regret, melancholy or joyful reference to things beyond the senses, they are probably upon a par. But, otherwise, how far above the human listener is the brute!
一支乐队过来演奏。乔听着。一只狗也是如此——一只牧牛人的狗，在肉店外等待他的主人，显然在想着那些他已经在心里想了几个小时、很高兴摆脱的羊。他似乎对三四个人感到困惑，不记得自己把他们留在哪里了，他在街上上下打量着，似乎希望看到他们迷路，突然竖起耳朵，记起了这一切。一只彻头彻尾的流浪狗，习惯了低贱的陪伴和酒馆；对羊来说，它是一只了不起的狗，随时准备在它们的背上蹦蹦跳跳，撕下它们的羊毛。而是一只受过教育、进步、发展的狗，它已经学会了自己的职责，并且知道如何履行它们。他和乔听着音乐，可能带着同样程度的动物满足感；同样，对于超越感官的事物的唤醒联想、渴望或遗憾、忧郁或快乐，它们可能是同等的。但是，除此之外，人类听众的野蛮程度是多么的高啊！

Turn that dog’s descendants wild, like Jo, and in a very few years they will so degenerate that they will lose even their bark—but not their bite.
如果让那只狗的后代变得疯狂，就像乔一样，那么在短短几年内，他们就会变得如此堕落，甚至会失去吠叫，但不会失去咬力。

The day changes as it wears itself away and becomes dark and drizzly. Jo fights it out at his crossing among the mud and wheels, the horses, whips, and umbrellas, and gets but a scanty sum to pay for the unsavoury shelter of Tom-all-Alone’s. Twilight comes on; gas begins to start up in the shops; the lamplighter, with his ladder, runs along the margin of the pavement. A wretched evening is beginning to close in.
天色渐渐消逝，天色变暗，下着毛毛雨。乔在泥泞、车轮、马匹、鞭子和雨伞之间奋战，只得到了微薄的钱来支付汤姆孤身一人的令人讨厌的庇护所。暮色降临；商店里的煤气开始启动；点灯人带着梯子沿着人行道的边缘奔跑。一个悲惨的夜晚即将来临。

In his chambers Mr. Tulkinghorn sits meditating an application to the nearest magistrate to-morrow morning for a warrant. Gridley, a disappointed suitor, has been here to-day and has been alarming. We are not to be put in bodily fear, and that ill-conditioned fellow shall be held to bail again. From the ceiling, foreshortened Allegory, in the person of one impossible Roman upside down, points with the arm of Samson (out of joint, and an odd one) obtrusively toward the window. Why should Mr. Tulkinghorn, for such no reason, look out of window? Is the hand not always pointing there? So he does not look out of window.
图尔金霍恩先生坐在他的房间里，思考着明天早上向最近的地方法官申请逮捕令。格里德利是一位失望的求婚者，他今天来到了这里，并且一直令人震惊。我们不应该陷入肉体的恐惧，而那个状况不佳的家伙将再次被保释。天花板上，缩短的寓言以一个不可能的倒立的罗马人的形象，用参孙的手臂（关节脱节，而且很奇怪）引人注目地指向窗户。图金霍恩先生为什么要无缘无故地看着窗外呢？手不总是指向那里吗？所以他没有看窗外。

And if he did, what would it be to see a woman going by? There are women enough in the world, Mr. Tulkinghorn thinks—too many; they are at the bottom of all that goes wrong in it, though, for the matter of that, they create business for lawyers. What would it be to see a woman going by, even though she were going secretly? They are all secret. Mr. Tulkinghorn knows that very well.
如果他这样做了，看到一个女人走过会是什么感觉？图金霍恩先生认为，世界上的女性足够多——太多了；太多了。他们是所有问题的根源，尽管如此，他们为律师创造了生意。看到一个女人经过，尽管她是偷偷地走，那会是什么感觉？它们都是秘密的。图金霍恩先生非常清楚这一点。

But they are not all like the woman who now leaves him and his house behind, between whose plain dress and her refined manner there is something exceedingly inconsistent. She should be an upper servant by her attire, yet in her air and step, though both are hurried and assumed—as far as she can assume in the muddy streets, which she treads with an unaccustomed foot—she is a lady. Her face is veiled, and still she sufficiently betrays herself to make more than one of those who pass her look round sharply.
但他们并不全都像那个现在离开他和他的房子的女人，她朴素的衣着和优雅的举止之间存在着极其不一致的东西。从她的衣着来看，她应该是一个上层仆人，但从她的神态和步伐来看，尽管两者都显得匆忙和假装——就她在泥泞的街道上所能想象的，她用不习惯的脚踩着——她是一位女士。她的脸蒙着面纱，但她仍然充分暴露了自己，让不止一个经过她身边的人都猛地环顾四周。

She never turns her head. Lady or servant, she has a purpose in her and can follow it. She never turns her head until she comes to the crossing where Jo plies with his broom. He crosses with her and begs. Still, she does not turn her head until she has landed on the other side. Then she slightly beckons to him and says, ‘Come here!’
她从不回头。女士或仆人，她有自己的目标并且可以遵循它。她从来没有转过头，直到来到乔拿着扫帚的十字路口。他与她相遇并乞求。尽管如此，她还是没有转过头，直到降落到另一边。然后她轻轻地向他招了招手，说道：“过来！”

Jo follows her a pace or two into a quiet court.
乔跟着她走了一两步，走进了一个安静的庭院。

‘Are you the boy I’ve read of in the papers?’ she asked behind her veil.
“你就是我在报纸上读到的那个男孩吗？”她在面纱后面问道。

‘I don’t know,’ says Jo, staring moodily at the veil, ‘nothink about no papers. I don’t know nothink about nothink at all.’
“我不知道，”乔郁闷地盯着面纱说道，“别想没有证件。”我根本不知道nothink关于nothink的事。

‘Were you examined at an inquest?’
“你接受过审讯吗？”

‘I don’t know nothink about no—where I was took by the beadle, do you mean?’ says Jo. ‘Was the boy’s name at the inkwhich Jo?’
“我不知道，你是说，我被执事带到哪里去了？”乔说。 “墨水上那个男孩的名字是乔吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘That’s me!’ says Jo.
“那就是我！”乔说。

‘Come farther up.’
“再往上一点。”

‘You mean about the man?’ says Jo, following. ‘Him as wos dead?’
“你是说那个男人吗？”乔跟在后面问道。 “他死了吗？”

‘Hush! Speak in a whisper! Yes. Did he look, when he was living, so very ill and poor?’
‘嘘！小声说话！是的。他生前的样子是不是病得很重、很穷？

‘Oh, jist!’ says Jo.
“哦，天哪！”乔说。

‘Did he look like—not like YOU?’ says the woman with abhorrence.
“他看起来像——不像你吗？”女人厌恶地说。

‘Oh, not so bad as me,’ says Jo. ‘I’m a reg’lar one I am! You didn’t know him, did you?’
“哦，没我那么糟糕，”乔说。 “我是个正常人！”你不认识他，是吗？

‘How dare you ask me if I knew him?’
“你怎么敢问我是否认识他？”

‘No offence, my lady,’ says Jo with much humility, for even he has got at the suspicion of her being a lady.
“无意冒犯，我的女士，”乔非常谦虚地说，因为就连他也怀疑她是一位女士。

‘I am not a lady. I am a servant.’
‘我不是一位女士。我是一个仆人。

‘You are a jolly servant!’ says Jo without the least idea of saying anything offensive, merely as a tribute of admiration.
“你是一个快乐的仆人！”乔说道，丝毫没有冒犯别人的意思，只是表达钦佩之情。

‘Listen and be silent. Don’t talk to me, and stand farther from me! Can you show me all those places that were spoken of in the account I read? The place he wrote for, the place he died at, the place where you were taken to, and the place where he was buried? Do you know the place where he was buried?’
‘听着，保持沉默。别跟我说话，离我远点！你能告诉我我读到的帐户中提到的所有这些地方吗？他写作的地方，他去世的地方，你被带到的地方，以及他埋葬的地方？你知道他埋在哪里吗？

Jo answers with a nod, having also nodded as each other place was mentioned.
乔点点头回答，在提到彼此的地点时也点了点头。

‘Go before me and show me all those dreadful places. Stop opposite to each, and don’t speak to me unless I speak to you. Don’t look back. Do what I want, and I will pay you well.’
‘走在我面前，带我看看那些可怕的地方。在每个人对面停下来，除非我跟你说话，否则不要跟我说话。不要回头。做我想做的事，我会给你丰厚的报酬。

Jo attends closely while the words are being spoken; tells them off on his broom-handle, finding them rather hard; pauses to consider their meaning; considers it satisfactory; and nods his ragged head.
乔在说话时密切关注。发现他们很难受，就用扫帚柄斥责他们。停下来思考它们的含义；认为满意；并点点头。

‘I’m fly,’ says Jo. ‘But fen larks, you know. Stow hooking it!’
“我会飞，”乔说。 “但是你知道，百灵鸟。”把它钩起来！’

‘What does the horrible creature mean?’ exclaims the servant, recoiling from him.
“这个可怕的生物是什么意思？”仆人惊呼，从他身边退开。

‘Stow cutting away, you know!’ says Jo.
“斯托切开，你知道！”乔说。

‘I don’t understand you. Go on before! I will give you more money than you ever had in your life.’
‘我不明白你的意思。之前就继续吧！我会给你比你一生中拥有的更多的钱。”

Jo screws up his mouth into a whistle, gives his ragged head a rub, takes his broom under his arm, and leads the way, passing deftly with his bare feet over the hard stones and through the mud and mire.
乔把嘴吹成口哨，揉揉他那破烂的脑袋，把扫帚夹在腋下，在前面带路，光着脚灵巧地走过坚硬的石头，穿过泥泞。

Cook’s Court. Jo stops. A pause.
库克法庭。乔停了下来。停顿一下。

‘Who lives here?’
“谁住在这里？”

‘Him wot give him his writing and give me half a bull,’ says Jo in a whisper without looking over his shoulder.
“他不会把他的作品给他，也不会给我半头公牛。”乔头也不回地低声说道。

‘Go on to the next.’
“继续下一个。”

Krook’s house. Jo stops again. A longer pause.
克鲁克的房子。乔又停了下来。更长的停顿。

‘Who lives here?’
“谁住在这里？”

‘HE lived here,’ Jo answers as before.
“他住在这里，”乔像以前一样回答。

After a silence he is asked, ‘In which room?’
一阵沉默后，有人问他：“在哪个房间？”

‘In the back room up there. You can see the winder from this corner. Up there! That’s where I see him stritched out. This is the public-ouse where I was took to.’
“在后面的房间里。从这个角落你可以看到上链器。在上面！那就是我看到他伸展开来的地方。这是我被带到的公共场所。

‘Go on to the next!’
“继续下一个！”

It is a longer walk to the next, but Jo, relieved of his first suspicions, sticks to the forms imposed upon him and does not look round. By many devious ways, reeking with offence of many kinds, they come to the little tunnel of a court, and to the gas-lamp (lighted now), and to the iron gate.
到达下一个目标的路要走更长的路，但乔消除了最初的怀疑，坚持遵循强加给他的形式，没有环顾四周。他们通过许多迂回的途径，浑身散发着各种冒犯的味道，来到法庭的小隧道、煤气灯（现在亮着）和铁门前。

‘He was put there,’ says Jo, holding to the bars and looking in.
“他被放在那里，”乔一边说，一边抓着栏杆往里看。

‘Where? Oh, what a scene of horror!’
'在哪里？哦，多么恐怖的一幕啊！

‘There!’ says Jo, pointing. ‘Over yinder. Arnong them piles of bones, and close to that there kitchin winder! They put him wery nigh the top. They was obliged to stamp upon it to git it in. I could unkiver it for you with my broom if the gate was open. That’s why they locks it, I s’pose,’ giving it a shake. ‘It’s always locked. Look at the rat!’ cries Jo, excited. ‘Hi! Look! There he goes! Ho! Into the ground!’
“那里！”乔指着说。 ‘在阴德之上。阿农他们成堆的骨头，靠近那个厨房绕线机！他们把他放在了接近顶端的位置。他们不得不踩着它才能把它放进去。如果门开着，我可以用我的扫帚为你把它打开。我想，这就是为什么他们把它锁起来，摇晃它。 ‘它总是锁着的。看看那只老鼠！”乔兴奋地喊道。 '你好！看！他走了！嗬！进入地下！’

The servant shrinks into a corner, into a corner of that hideous archway, with its deadly stains contaminating her dress; and putting out her two hands and passionately telling him to keep away from her, for he is loathsome to her, so remains for some moments. Jo stands staring and is still staring when she recovers herself.
仆人缩到一个角落里，缩进那座丑陋拱门的角落里，致命的污渍沾染了她的衣服；她伸出两只手，热情地告诉他离她远点，因为他令她厌恶，所以持续了一会儿。乔站在那里盯着看，当她恢复过来时仍然盯着看。

‘Is this place of abomination consecrated ground?’
“这个可憎之地是圣地吗？”

‘I don’t know nothink of consequential ground,’ says Jo, still staring.
“我不知道有什么后果，”乔说道，仍然盯着看。

‘Is it blessed?’
“有福吗？”

‘Which?’ says Jo, in the last degree amazed.
“哪个？”乔说，最后程度的惊讶。

‘Is it blessed?’
“有福吗？”

‘I’m blest if I know,’ says Jo, staring more than ever; ‘but I shouldn’t think it warn’t. Blest?’ repeats Jo, something troubled in his mind. ‘It an’t done it much good if it is. Blest? I should think it was t’othered myself. But I don’t know nothink!’
“如果我知道那就太好了，”乔说道，目光比以往任何时候都更加凝视。 “但我不应该认为它不会。”天哪？”乔重复道，心里有些不安。 “如果是的话，那也没什么好处。”祝福？我应该认为这不是我自己的事。但我不知道！

The servant takes as little heed of what he says as she seems to take of what she has said herself. She draws off her glove to get some money from her purse. Jo silently notices how white and small her hand is and what a jolly servant she must be to wear such sparkling rings.
仆人对他所说的话毫不在意，就像她似乎对自己所说的话很在意一样。她脱下手套，从钱包里取出一些钱。乔默默地注意到她的手又白又小，她一定是一个多么快乐的仆人才能戴着这么闪闪发光的戒指。

She drops a piece of money in his hand without touching it, and shuddering as their hands approach. ‘Now,’ she adds, ‘show me the spot again!’
她把一张钱扔到他手里，但没有碰它，当他们的手靠近时，她颤抖着。 “现在，”她补充道，“再给我看看那个地方！”

Jo thrusts the handle of his broom between the bars of the gate, and with his utmost power of elaboration, points it out. At length, looking aside to see if he has made himself intelligible, he finds that he is alone.
乔把扫帚柄插在门闩之间，用尽全力的阐述指出了这一点。最后，他扭头看看自己是否已经明白了自己的意思，却发现只剩下他一个人了。

His first proceeding is to hold the piece of money to the gas-light and to be overpowered at finding that it is yellow—gold. His next is to give it a one-sided bite at the edge as a test of its quality. His next, to put it in his mouth for safety and to sweep the step and passage with great care. His job done, he sets off for Tom-all-Alone’s, stopping in the light of innumerable gas-lamps to produce the piece of gold and give it another one-sided bite as a reassurance of its being genuine.
他的第一步行动是将这块钱放在煤气灯下，当他发现它是黄金时，他感到震惊。他的下一步是在边缘上咬一口，以测试其质量。接下来，为了安全起见，他把它放在嘴里，并小心翼翼地清扫台阶和通道。工作完成后，他出发前往 Tom-all-Alone's，在无数煤气灯的照耀下停下来，取出那块金子，并又单面咬了一口，以确保它是真的。

The Mercury in powder is in no want of society to-night, for my Lady goes to a grand dinner and three or four balls. Sir Leicester is fidgety down at Chesney Wold, with no better company than the goat; he complains to Mrs. Rouncewell that the rain makes such a monotonous pattering on the terrace that he can’t read the paper even by the fireside in his own snug dressing-room.
粉状的水星今晚不需要社交，因为我的夫人要去参加一场盛大的晚宴和三四个舞会。莱斯特爵士在切斯尼沃尔德焦躁不安，没有比山羊更好的陪伴了。他向朗斯韦尔夫人抱怨说，雨水在露台上发出单调的淅淅沥沥的声音，以至于他甚至在自己舒适的更衣室里的炉边都无法阅读报纸。

‘Sir Leicester would have done better to try the other side of the house, my dear,’ says Mrs. Rouncewell to Rosa. ‘His dressing-room is on my Lady’s side. And in all these years I never heard the step upon the Ghost’s Walk more distinct than it is to-night!’
“亲爱的，莱斯特爵士最好尝试一下房子的另一边，”朗斯韦尔夫人对罗莎说。 “他的更衣室在夫人这边。这些年来，我从来没有听到过比今晚更清晰的鬼道脚步声！”

CHAPTER XVII
第十七章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

Richard very often came to see us while we remained in London (though he soon failed in his letter-writing), and with his quick abilities, his good spirits, his good temper, his gaiety and freshness, was always delightful. But though I liked him more and more the better I knew him, I still felt more and more how much it was to be regretted that he had been educated in no habits of application and concentration. The system which had addressed him in exactly the same manner as it had addressed hundreds of other boys, all varying in character and capacity, had enabled him to dash through his tasks, always with fair credit and often with distinction, but in a fitful, dazzling way that had confirmed his reliance on those very qualities in himself which it had been most desirable to direct and train. They were good qualities, without which no high place can be meritoriously won, but like fire and water, though excellent servants, they were very bad masters. If they had been under Richard’s direction, they would have been his friends; but Richard being under their direction, they became his enemies.
当我们留在伦敦时，理查德经常来看我们（尽管他写信很快就失败了），他的敏捷能力，他的良好精神，他的好脾气，他的快乐和新鲜感，总是令人愉快。尽管我对他了解得越多，就越喜欢他，但我还是越来越感到遗憾，因为他没有受过专心致志的教育。这个制度对待他的方式与对待其他数百个男孩的方式完全相同，他们的性格和能力各不相同，使他能够冲刺完成自己的任务，总是获得公平的荣誉，并且常常表现出色，但时断时续，令人眼花缭乱的方式证实了他对自己最需要指导和训练的那些品质的依赖。他们具有良好的品质，没有这些品质就无法立功赢得高位，但就像火和水一样，虽然他们是优秀的仆人，但他们却是非常糟糕的主人。如果他们接受理查德的指导，他们就会成为他的朋友；如果他们接受理查德的指导，他们就会成为他的朋友。但理查德在他们的指导下，他们成了他的敌人。

I write down these opinions not because I believe that this or any other thing was so because I thought so, but only because I did think so and I want to be quite candid about all I thought and did. These were my thoughts about Richard. I thought I often observed besides how right my guardian was in what he had said, and that the uncertainties and delays of the Chancery suit had imparted to his nature something of the careless spirit of a gamester who felt that he was part of a great gaming system.
我写下这些观点并不是因为我相信这件事或任何其他事情是这样的，因为我是这么想的，而只是因为我确实是这样想的，并且我想对我的所想和所做的一切保持坦诚。这些是我对理查德的想法。我想我经常观察到，除了我的监护人所说的话是多么正确之外，大法官诉讼的不确定性和拖延也赋予了他一种游戏玩家的粗心精神，他觉得自己是一场伟大游戏的一部分。系统。

Mr. and Mrs. Bayham Badger coming one afternoon when my guardian was not at home, in the course of conversation I naturally inquired after Richard.
一天下午，我的监护人不在家，贝汉姆獾先生和夫人来了，谈话中我自然地询问了理查德的情况。

‘Why, Mr. Carstone,’ said Mrs. Badger, ‘is very well and is, I assure you, a great acquisition to our society. Captain Swosser used to say of me that I was always better than land a-head and a breeze a-starn to the midshipmen’s mess when the purser’s junk had become as tough as the fore-topsel weather earings. It was his naval way of mentioning generally that I was an acquisition to any society. I may render the same tribute, I am sure, to Mr. Carstone. But I—you won’t think me premature if I mention it?’
“为什么，卡斯通先生，”巴杰夫人说，“非常好，我向你保证，这对我们的社会来说是一项伟大的收获。斯沃瑟船长常常这样评价我，当事务长的垃圾变得像前顶板的气象耳环一样坚韧时，我总是比在船头着陆并微风吹过见习官的混乱要好。他以海军般的方式普遍地提到我是任何社会的收获。我相信，我也会向卡斯通先生致以同样的敬意。但我——如果我提起这件事，你不会认为我太早了？”

I said no, as Mrs. Badger’s insinuating tone seemed to require such an answer.
我拒绝了，因为獾夫人含沙射影的语气似乎需要这样的回答。

‘Nor Miss Clare?’ said Mrs. Bayham Badger sweetly.
“克莱尔小姐也没有吗？”贝汉姆獾夫人甜甜地说。

Ada said no, too, and looked uneasy.
艾达也拒绝了，看上去很不安。

‘Why, you see, my dears,’ said Mrs. Badger, ‘—you’ll excuse me calling you my dears?’
“为什么，你瞧，亲爱的，”獾夫人说，“——请原谅我称你们为亲爱的？”

We entreated Mrs. Badger not to mention it.
我们恳求獾夫人不要提这件事。

‘Because you really are, if I may take the liberty of saying so,’ pursued Mrs. Badger, ‘so perfectly charming. You see, my dears, that although I am still young—or Mr. Bayham Badger pays me the compliment of saying so—‘
“因为你真的是，如果我可以冒昧地说，”巴杰尔太太继续说道，“非常迷人。”你看，亲爱的，尽管我还年轻——或者贝汉姆獾先生这样夸奖我——”

‘No,’ Mr. Badger called out like some one contradicting at a public meeting. ‘Not at all!’
“不，”巴杰先生大声喊道，就像在公开会议上自相矛盾的人一样。 '一点也不！'

‘Very well,’ smiled Mrs. Badger, ‘we will say still young.’
“很好，”獾夫人微笑着，“我们可以说还年轻。”

‘Undoubtedly,’ said Mr. Badger.
“毫无疑问，”獾先生说。

‘My dears, though still young, I have had many opportunities of observing young men. There were many such on board the dear old Crippler, I assure you. After that, when I was with Captain Swosser in the Mediterranean, I embraced every opportunity of knowing and befriending the midshipmen under Captain Swosser’s command. YOU never heard them called the young gentlemen, my dears, and probably wonld not understand allusions to their pipeclaying their weekly accounts, but it is otherwise with me, for blue water has been a second home to me, and I have been quite a sailor. Again, with Professor Dingo.’
“亲爱的，虽然我还年轻，但我有很多机会观察年轻人。我向你保证，亲爱的老瘸子号上有很多这样的人。此后，当我在地中海与斯沃瑟船长一起工作时，我抓住了每一个认识斯沃瑟船长麾下的见习官并与他们交朋友的机会。你从来没有听过他们被称为年轻的绅士，亲爱的，并且可能不会理解他们用管道粘土制作每周账目的暗示，但对我来说却不然，因为蓝色的水一直是我的第二个家，而且我一直是一名不折不扣的水手。再次与丁戈教授一起。

‘A man of European reputation,’ murmured Mr. Badger.
“一个在欧洲享有盛誉的人。”巴杰尔先生低声说道。

‘When I lost my dear first and became the wife of my dear second,’ said Mrs. Badger, speaking of her former husbands as if they were parts of a charade, ‘I still enjoyed opportunities of observing youth. The class attendant on Professor Dingo’s lectures was a large one, and it became my pride, as the wife of an eminent scientific man seeking herself in science the utmost consolation it could impart, to throw our house open to the students as a kind of Scientific Exchange. Every Tuesday evening there was lemonade and a mixed biscuit for all who chose to partake of those refreshments. And there was science to an unlimited extent.’
“当我失去了我亲爱的第一个，成为我亲爱的第二个的妻子时，”巴杰尔太太说起她的前夫，仿佛他们是一个猜谜游戏的一部分，“我仍然享受观察青春的机会。丁戈教授讲课的班主任人数很多，作为一位杰出科学家的妻子，我感到自豪，她在科学中寻求科学所能给予的最大安慰，将我们的房子向学生开放，作为一种科学的方式。交换。每个星期二晚上，我们都会为所有选择享用这些茶点的人提供柠檬水和混合饼干。科学的范围是无限的。”

‘Remarkable assemblies those, Miss Summerson,’ said Mr. Badger reverentially. ‘There must have been great intellectual friction going on there under the auspices of such a man!’
“萨默森小姐，这真是了不起的集会，”巴杰先生恭敬地说。 “在这样一个人的主持下，那里肯定发生了巨大的智力摩擦！”

‘And now,’ pursued Mrs. Badger, ‘now that I am the wife of my dear third, Mr. Badger, I still pursue those habits of observation which were formed during the lifetime of Captain Swosser and adapted to new and unexpected purposes during the lifetime of Professor Dingo. I therefore have not come to the consideration of Mr. Carstone as a neophyte. And yet I am very much of the opinion, my dears, that he has not chosen his profession advisedly.’
“现在，”巴杰尔夫人继续说道，“既然我是我亲爱的第三任巴杰尔先生的妻子，我仍然追求那些在斯沃瑟船长在世时养成的观察习惯，并适应了新的和意想不到的目的。丁戈教授的一生。因此，我并没有将卡斯通先生视为新手。然而，亲爱的，我非常认为他没有经过深思熟虑地选择了自己的职业。

Ada looked so very anxious now that I asked Mrs. Badger on what she founded her supposition.
艾达现在看起来非常焦虑，我问獾夫人她的假设是根据什么成立的。

‘My dear Miss Summerson,’ she replied, ‘on Mr. Carstone’s character and conduct. He is of such a very easy disposition that probably he would never think it worthwhile to mention how he really feels, but he feels languid about the profession. He has not that positive interest in it which makes it his vocation. If he has any decided impression in reference to it, I should say it was that it is a tiresome pursuit. Now, this is not promising. Young men like Mr. Allan Woodcourt who take it from a strong interest in all that it can do will find some reward in it through a great deal of work for a very little money and through years of considerable endurance and disappointment. But I am quite convinced that this would never be the case with Mr. Carstone.’
“我亲爱的萨默森小姐，”她回答道，“关于卡斯顿先生的性格和行为。”他的性格非常随和，可能他永远不会认为值得提及他的真实感受，但他对这个职业感到无精打采。他对此没有那么积极的兴趣，这使得他成为他的职业。如果说他对此有什么明确的印象的话，我应该说这是一种令人厌烦的追求。现在看来，这并不乐观。像艾伦·伍德考特先生这样的年轻人，对它所能做的一切都抱有浓厚的兴趣，通过用很少的钱做大量的工作，并通过多年的相当大的忍耐和失望，他们会从中找到一些回报。但我坚信卡斯顿先生永远不会出现这种情况。

‘Does Mr. Badger think so too?’ asked Ada timidly.
“獾先生也这么认为吗？”艾达胆怯地问。

‘Why,’ said Mr. Badger, ‘to tell the truth, Miss Clare, this view of the matter had not occurred to me until Mrs. Badger mentioned it. But when Mrs. Badger put it in that light, I naturally gave great consideration to it, knowing that Mrs. Badger’s mind, in addition to its natural advantages, has had the rare advantage of being formed by two such very distinguished (I will even say illustrious) public men as Captain Swosser of the Royal Navy and Professor Dingo. The conclusion at which I have arrived is—in short, is Mrs. Badger’s conclusion.’
“哎呀，”巴杰尔先生说，“说实话，克莱尔小姐，直到巴杰尔太太提到这件事，我才想到了这个观点。但当獾夫人这么说时，我自然很重视，因为知道獾夫人的头脑除了天生的优势之外，还有难得的优势，是由两个如此杰出的人所形成的（我什至会比如说皇家海军斯沃瑟上尉和丁戈教授等杰出的公众人物。我得出的结论是——简而言之，就是巴杰尔夫人的结论。

‘It was a maxim of Captain Swosser’s,’ said Mrs. Badger, ‘speaking in his figurative naval manner, that when you make pitch hot, you cannot make it too hot; and that if you only have to swab a plank, you should swab it as if Davy Jones were after you. It appears to me that this maxim is applicable to the medical as well as to the nautical profession.
“这是斯沃瑟船长的格言，”巴杰夫人说，“用他象征性的海军风格来说，当你让沥青变得热时，你不能让它太热;如果你只需要擦拭一块木板，你应该像戴维·琼斯在追你一样擦拭它。在我看来，这条格言既适用于医学界，也适用于航海界。

‘To all professions,’ observed Mr. Badger. ‘It was admirably said by Captain Swosser. Beautifully said.’
“对所有职业来说，”巴杰尔先生评论道。 “斯沃瑟船长说得令人钦佩。说得漂亮。”

‘People objected to Professor Dingo when we were staying in the north of Devon after our marriage,’ said Mrs. Badger, ‘that he disfigured some of the houses and other buildings by chipping off fragments of those edifices with his little geological hammer. But the professor replied that he knew of no building save the Temple of Science. The principle is the same, I think?’
“当我们结婚后住在德文郡北部时，人们反对丁戈教授，”巴杰尔夫人说，“他用他的小地质锤敲碎了一些房屋和其他建筑物的碎片，从而毁坏了一些房屋和其他建筑物。但教授回答说，除了科学殿堂之外，他不知道有什么建筑。我想原理是一样的？

‘Precisely the same,’ said Mr. Badger. ‘Finely expressed! The professor made the same remark, Miss Summerson, in his last illness, when (his mind wandering) he insisted on keeping his little hammer under the pillow and chipping at the countenances of the attendants. The ruling passion!’
“一模一样，”獾先生说。 ‘表达得好！萨默森小姐，教授在他最后一次生病时也说过同样的话，当时（他的思绪飘忽不定）他坚持把他的小锤子放在枕头下，敲打服务员的脸。主导的激情！

Although we could have dispensed with the length at which Mr. and Mrs. Badger pursued the conversation, we both felt that it was disinterested in them to express the opinion they had communicated to us and that there was a great probability of its being sound. We agreed to say nothing to Mr. Jarndyce until we had spoken to Richard; and as he was coming next evening, we resolved to have a very serious talk with him.
虽然我们本可以省去獾先生和獾夫人继续谈话的时间，但我们都觉得他们没有兴趣表达他们向我们传达的观点，而且很有可能是正确的。我们同意在与理查德交谈之前不向贾迪斯先生透露任何信息。由于他第二天晚上就要来，我们决定与他进行一次非常严肃的谈话。

So after he had been a little while with Ada, I went in and found my darling (as I knew she would be) prepared to consider him thoroughly right in whatever he said.
因此，在他和艾达相处了一段时间后，我进去发现我亲爱的（我知道她会的）准备好认为他所说的一切都是完全正确的。

‘And how do you get on, Richard?’ said I. I always sat down on the other side of him. He made quite a sister of me.
“理查德，你过得怎么样？”我问道。我总是坐在他的另一边。他把我当成妹妹了。

‘Oh! Well enough!’ said Richard.
'哦！好吧！”理查德说。

‘He can’t say better than that, Esther, can he?’ cried my pet triumphantly.
“他不能说比这更好的了，埃丝特，不是吗？”我的宠物得意地喊道。

I tried to look at my pet in the wisest manner, but of course I couldn’t.
我试图以最明智的方式看待我的宠物，但我当然做不到。

‘Well enough?’ I repeated.
“够了吗？”我重复道。

‘Yes,’ said Richard, ‘well enough. It’s rather jog-trotty and humdrum. But it’ll do as well as anything else!’
“是的，”理查德说，“很好。”这是相当慢跑和单调的。但它的作用和其他任何东西一样好！

‘Oh! My dear Richard!’ I remonstrated.
'哦！我亲爱的理查德！”我抗议道。

‘What’s the matter?’ said Richard.
“怎么了？”理查德说。

‘Do as well as anything else!’
“做任何事都一样！”

‘I don’t think there’s any harm in that, Dame Durden,’ said Ada, looking so confidingly at me across him; ‘because if it will do as well as anything else, it will do very well, I hope.’
“我不认为这有什么坏处，德登夫人，”艾达说道，她的目光越过他，充满信心地看着我。 “因为如果它能像其他任何事情一样，它会做得很好，我希望。”

‘Oh, yes, I hope so,’ returned Richard, carelessly tossing his hair from his forehead. ‘After all, it may be only a kind of probation till our suit is—I forgot though. I am not to mention the suit. Forbidden ground! Oh, yes, it’s all right enough. Let us talk about something else.’
“哦，是的，我希望如此，”理查德回答道，漫不经心地甩开额前的头发。 “毕竟，这可能只是一种缓刑，直到我们的诉讼——不过我忘了。”我更不用说这套衣服了。禁地！哦，是的，没关系。让我们谈谈别的事情吧。

Ada would have done so willingly, and with a full persuasion that we had brought the question to a most satisfactory state. But I thought it would be useless to stop there, so I began again.
艾达会心甘情愿地这样做，并且完全相信我们已经把这个问题带到了最令人满意的状态。但我觉得停在这里是没有用的，所以我又开始了。

‘No, but Richard,’ said I, ‘and my dear Ada! Consider how important it is to you both, and what a point of honour it is towards your cousin, that you, Richard, should be quite in earnest without any reservation. I think we had better talk about this, really, Ada. It will be too late very soon.’
“不，但是理查德，”我说，“还有我亲爱的艾达！考虑一下，理查德，你应该毫无保留地认真对待这件事，这对你们俩来说是多么重要，对你的表弟来说是多么荣幸。我认为我们最好谈谈这个，真的，艾达。很快就太晚了。

‘Oh, yes! We must talk about it!’ said Ada. ‘But I think Richard is right.’
'哦是的！我们必须谈谈！”艾达说。 “但我认为理查德是对的。”

What was the use of my trying to look wise when she was so pretty, and so engaging, and so fond of him!
当她如此美丽、如此迷人、如此喜欢他时，我努力让自己看起来聪明又有什么用呢！

‘Mr. and Mrs. Badger were here yesterday, Richard,’ said I, ‘and they seemed disposed to think that you had no great liking for the profession.’
'先生。 “理查德，巴杰尔太太昨天也来过，”我说，“他们似乎认为你不太喜欢这个职业。”

‘Did they though?’ said Richard. ‘Oh! Well, that rather alters the case, because I had no idea that they thought so, and I should not have liked to disappoint or inconvenience them. The fact is, I don’t care much about it. But, oh, it don’t matter! It’ll do as well as anything else!’
“他们有吗？”理查德说。 '哦！好吧，这反而改变了情况，因为我不知道他们是这么想的，而且我也不应该让他们失望或给他们带来不便。事实是，我不太关心它。但是，哦，没关系！它会和其他任何事情一样好！

‘You hear him, Ada!’ said I.
“你听到了，艾达！”我说。

‘The fact is,’ Richard proceeded, half thoughtfully and half jocosely, ‘it is not quite in my way. I don’t take to it. And I get too much of Mrs. Bayham Badger’s first and second.’
“事实是，”理查德半若有所思半开玩笑地继续说道，“这不太妨碍我。”我不喜欢它。我对贝厄姆·獾夫人的第一和第二件事了解得太多了。

‘I am sure THAT’S very natural!’ cried Ada, quite delighted. ‘The very thing we both said yesterday, Esther!’
“我相信这很自然！”艾达非常高兴地喊道。 “这就是我们昨天说的，埃丝特！”

‘Then,’ pursued Richard, ‘it’s monotonous, and to-day is too like yesterday, and to-morrow is too like to-day.’
“那么，”理查德继续说道，“那就太单调了，今天太像昨天了，明天也太像今天了。”

‘But I am afraid,’ said I, ‘this is an objection to all kinds of application—to life itself, except under some very uncommon circumstances.’
“但我担心，”我说，“这是对各种应用的反对——对生命本身的反对，除非在一些非常不常见的情况下。”

‘Do you think so?’ returned Richard, still considering. ‘Perhaps! Ha! Why, then, you know,’ he added, suddenly becoming gay again, ‘we travel outside a circle to what I said just now. It’ll do as well as anything else. Oh, it’s all right enough! Let us talk about something else.’
“你这么认为吗？”理查德回答道，仍在思考。 '也许！哈！那么，你知道吗，”他补充道，突然又变得同性恋了，“我们走出了一个圈子，回到了我刚才所说的地方。它会和其他任何事情一样好。哦，没关系！让我们谈谈别的事情吧。

But even Ada, with her loving face—and if it had seemed innocent and trusting when I first saw it in that memorable November fog, how much more did it seem now when I knew her innocent and trusting heart—even Ada shook her head at this and looked serious. So I thought it a good opportunity to hint to Richard that if he were sometimes a little careless of himself, I was very sure he never meant to be careless of Ada, and that it was a part of his affectionate consideration for her not to slight the importance of a step that might influence both their lives. This made him almost grave.
但即使是艾达，她那张慈爱的脸庞——如果我第一次在令人难忘的十一月雾中看到它时，它看上去天真无邪、值得信赖，那么现在当我知道她天真无邪、值得信赖的心时，它看起来又是多么天真无邪——甚至艾达也摇了摇头。这看起来很严肃。所以我认为这是一个很好的机会向理查德暗示，如果他有时对自己有点粗心，我很确定他从来没有故意对艾达不小心，这是他深情考虑的一部分，让她不要轻视可能影响他们两人生活的一步的重要性。这让他几乎变得严肃起来。

‘My dear Mother Hubbard,’ he said, ‘that’s the very thing! I have thought of that several times and have been quite angry with myself for meaning to be so much in earnest and—somehow—not exactly being so. I don’t know how it is; I seem to want something or other to stand by. Even you have no idea how fond I am of Ada (my darling cousin, I love you, so much!), but I don’t settle down to constancy in other things. It’s such uphill work, and it takes such a time!’ said Richard with an air of vexation.
“我亲爱的哈伯德妈妈，”他说，“就是这样！”我曾多次想到这一点，并对自己感到非常生气，因为我本想如此认真，但不知为何，事实并非如此。我不知道是怎么回事；我似乎想要有什么东西站在旁边。即使你不知道我有多喜欢艾达（我亲爱的表弟，我非常爱你！），但我在其他事情上并没有安定下来。这是多么艰巨的工作，而且需要这么长时间！”理查德一脸烦恼地说道。

‘That may be,’ I suggested, ‘because you don’t like what you have chosen.’
“这可能是，”我建议道，“因为你不喜欢你所选择的。”

‘Poor fellow!’ said Ada. ‘I am sure I don’t wonder at it!’
“可怜的家伙！”艾达说。 “我确信我对此并不感到奇怪！”

No. It was not of the least use my trying to look wise. I tried again, but how could I do it, or how could it have any effect if I could, while Ada rested her clasped hands upon his shoulder and while he looked at her tender blue eyes, and while they looked at him!
不，我试图表现得明智一点也没有任何用处。我又试了一次，但是当艾达将双手紧握在他的肩膀上，当他看着她温柔的蓝眼睛，当他们看着他的时候，我该怎么办呢？

‘You see, my precious girl,’ said Richard, passing her golden curls through and through his hand, ‘I was a little hasty perhaps; or I misunderstood my own inclinations perhaps. They don’t seem to lie in that direction. I couldn’t tell till I tried. Now the question is whether it’s worth-while to undo all that has been done. It seems like making a great disturbance about nothing particular.’
“你看，我的宝贝女儿，”理查德一边说着，一边用手抚摸着她金色的卷发，“也许我有点草率了；但我还是有点急躁了。”或者我也许误解了自己的倾向。他们似乎并没有朝那个方向撒谎。在我尝试之前我无法判断。现在的问题是是否值得撤销已经完成的一切。好像没什么特别的事，就大闹了。”

‘My dear Richard,’ said I, ‘how CAN you say about nothing particular?’
“亲爱的理查德，”我说，“你怎么能说没什么特别的呢？”

‘I don’t mean absolutely that,’ he returned. ‘I mean that it MAY be nothing particular because I may never want it.’
“我绝对不是这个意思，”他回答道。 “我的意思是，它可能没什么特别的，因为我可能永远不想要它。”

Both Ada and I urged, in reply, not only that it was decidedly worth-while to undo what had been done, but that it must be undone. I then asked Richard whether he had thought of any more congenial pursuit.
艾达和我在答复中都敦促，不仅绝对值得撤销已经完成的事情，而且必须撤销它。然后我问理查德是否想过更合适的追求。

‘There, my dear Mrs. Shipton,’ said Richard, ‘you touch me home. Yes, I have. I have been thinking that the law is the boy for me.’
“好了，我亲爱的希普顿夫人，”理查德说，“你让我回家了。”是的，我有。我一直认为法律是我的最佳选择。

‘The law!’ repeated Ada as if she were afraid of the name.
“法律！”艾达重复道，仿佛她害怕这个名字。

‘If I went into Kenge’s office,’ said Richard, ‘and if I were placed under articles to Kenge, I should have my eye on the—hum!— the forbidden ground—and should be able to study it, and master it, and to satisfy myself that it was not neglected and was being properly conducted. I should be able to look after Ada’s interests and my own interests (the same thing!); and I should peg away at Blackstone and all those fellows with the most tremendous ardour.’
“如果我走进肯格的办公室，”理查德说，“如果我被安排在肯格的文章下，我应该会关注——嗯！——禁地——并且应该能够研究它，掌握它，并使我自己确信它没有被忽视并且正在正确地进行。我应该能够照顾艾达的利益和我自己的利益（同一件事！）；我应该以最大的热情锁定黑石和所有这些人。

I was not by any means so sure of that, and I saw how his hankering after the vague things yet to come of those long-deferred hopes cast a shade on Ada’s face. But I thought it best to encourage him in any project of continuous exertion, and only advised him to be quite sure that his mind was made up now.
我无论如何都不敢肯定这一点，我看到他对那些长期推迟的希望中尚未实现的模糊事物的渴望如何在艾达的脸上投下了阴影。但我认为最好在任何需要持续努力的项目上鼓励他，只是建议他确定自己现在已经下定决心了。

‘My dear Minerva,’ said Richard, ‘I am as steady as you are. I made a mistake; we are all liable to mistakes; I won’t do so any more, and I’ll become such a lawyer as is not often seen. That is, you know,’ said Richard, relapsing into doubt, ‘if it really is worth-while, after all, to make such a disturbance about nothing particular!’
“我亲爱的米勒娃，”理查德说，“我和你一样坚定。我犯了一个错误;我们都有可能犯错误；我不会再这样做了，我会成为一个不常见的律师。也就是说，你知道，”理查德说，再次陷入怀疑，“毕竟，为了没什么特别的事情而制造这样的麻烦是否真的值得！

This led to our saying again, with a great deal of gravity, all that we had said already and to our coming to much the same conclusion afterwards. But we so strongly advised Richard to be frank and open with Mr. Jarndyce, without a moment’s delay, and his disposition was naturally so opposed to concealment that he sought him out at once (taking us with him) and made a full avowal. ‘Rick,’ said my guardian, after hearing him attentively, ‘we can retreat with honour, and we will. But we must he careful—for our cousin s sake, Rick, for our cousin’s sake—that we make no more such mistakes. Therefore, in the matter of the law, we will have a good trial before we decide. We will look before we leap, and take plenty of time about it.’
这导致我们非常严肃地再次说出我们已经说过的一切，并导致我们后来得出了大致相同的结论。但我们强烈建议理查德对贾迪斯先生开诚布公，不要有片刻的拖延，而他的性情自然是反对隐瞒的，所以他立即找到了贾迪斯先生（带着我们）并完全坦白了。 “瑞克，”我的监护人仔细听完他的话后说道，“我们可以光荣地撤退，我们会的。”但我们必须小心——看在我们表弟的份上，瑞克，看在我们表弟的份上——不要再犯这样的错误。所以，在法律问题上，我们要好好审判一下再做决定。我们会三思而后行，并花大量时间。

Richard’s energy was of such an impatient and fitful kind that he would have liked nothing better than to have gone to Mr. Kenge’s office in that hour and to have entered into articles with him on the spot. Submitting, however, with a good grace to the caution that we had shown to be so necessary, he contented himself with sitting down among us in his lightest spirits and talking as if his one unvarying purpose in life from childhood had been that one which now held possession of him. My guardian was very kind and cordial with him, but rather grave, enough so to cause Ada, when he had departed and we were going upstairs to bed, to say, ‘Cousin John, I hope you don’t think the worse of Richard?’
理查德的精力如此不耐烦，断断续续，他最想在那个时间去肯格先生的办公室，当场与他签订文章。然而，他很高兴地接受了我们所表现出的必要的警告，心满意足地坐在我们中间，心情最轻松地聊天，仿佛他从童年起就一直坚持的人生目标就是现在的目标。占有了他。我的监护人对他非常友善和热情，但也很严肃，以至于当他离开、我们上楼睡觉时，艾达说：‘约翰表弟，我希望你不要把理查德想得更糟。 ？

‘No, my love,’ said he.
“不，亲爱的，”他说。

‘Because it was very natural that Richard should be mistaken in such a difficult case. It is not uncommon.’
“因为理查德在如此困难的案件中犯错是很自然的。这并不罕见。

‘No, no, my love,’ said he. ‘Don’t look unhappy.’
“不，不，我的爱人，”他说。 “别露出不高兴的样子。”

‘Oh, I am not unhappy, cousin John!’ said Ada, smiling cheerfully, with her hand upon his shoulder, where she had put it in bidding him good night. ‘But I should be a little so if you thought at all the worse of Richard.’
“噢，我并没有不高兴，约翰表弟！”艾达把手搭在约翰的肩膀上，高兴地微笑着说道，这是她向他道晚安时所放的。 “但如果你对理查德有更坏的看法，我也应该这么认为。”

‘My dear,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘I should think the worse of him only if you were ever in the least unhappy through his means. I should be more disposed to quarrel with myself even then, than with poor Rick, for I brought you together. But, tut, all this is nothing! He has time before him, and the race to run. I think the worse of him? Not I, my loving cousin! And not you, I swear!’
“亲爱的，”贾迪斯先生说，“只有当你因他的手段而感到一丝不快时，我才会对他产生更坏的看法。”即使在那时，我也应该更愿意与自己争吵，而不是与可怜的里克争吵，因为是我把你们带到了一起。但是，啧，这一切都不算什么！他面前还有时间，还有赛跑要跑。我觉得他更坏？不是我，我亲爱的表弟！而不是你，我发誓！

‘No, indeed, cousin John,’ said Ada, ‘I am sure I could not—I am sure I would not—think any ill of Richard if the whole world did. I could, and I would, think better of him then than at any other time!’
“不，确实如此，约翰表弟，”艾达说，“如果全世界都这样想，我相信我也不会——我相信我不会——对理查德有任何不好的看法。那时我可以而且我会比任何其他时候都更想念他！

So quietly and honestly she said it, with her hands upon his shoulders—both hands now—and looking up into his face, like the picture of truth!
她如此平静而诚实地说道，双手搭在他的肩膀上——现在是双手——抬头看着他的脸，就像真实的画面一样！

‘I think,’ said my guardian, thoughtfully regarding her, ‘I think it must be somewhere written that the virtues of the mothers shall occasionally be visited on the children, as well as the sins of the father. Good night, my rosebud. Good night, little woman. Pleasant slumbers! Happy dreams!’
“我想，”我的监护人若有所思地看着她，说道，“我想一定有什么地方写着，母亲的美德有时会影响到孩子们，就像父亲的罪恶一样。”晚安，我的玫瑰花蕾。晚安，小女人。愉快的睡眠！高兴的梦！'

This was the first time I ever saw him follow Ada with his eyes with something of a shadow on their benevolent expression. I well remembered the look with which he had contemplated her and Richard when she was singing in the firelight; it was but a very little while since he had watched them passing down the room in which the sun was shining, and away into the shade; but his glance was changed, and even the silent look of confidence in me which now followed it once more was not quite so hopeful and untroubled as it had originally been.
这是我第一次看到他用慈祥的眼神带着一丝阴影追随艾达。我清楚地记得当她在火光下唱歌时，他注视着她和理查德的眼神。自从他看着他们穿过阳光明媚的房间，消失在阴凉处之后，这只是很短的一段时间。但他的眼神变了，甚至连那再次出现的对我充满信心的沉默​​表情也不再像原来那样充满希望和平静。

Ada praised Richard more to me that night than ever she had praised him yet. She went to sleep with a little bracelet he had given her clasped upon her arm. I fancied she was dreaming of him when I kissed her cheek after she had slept an hour and saw how tranquil and happy she looked.
那天晚上，艾达对我对理查德的赞扬比以往任何时候都多。她睡着了，手臂上戴着他送给她的小手镯。当我在她睡了一个小时后亲吻她的脸颊并看到她看起来多么平静和快乐时，我以为她正在梦见他。

For I was so little inclined to sleep myself that night that I sat up working. It would not be worth mentioning for its own sake, but I was wakeful and rather low-spirited. I don’t know why. At least I don’t think I know why. At least, perhaps I do, but I don’t think it matters.
因为那天晚上我根本不想睡觉，所以我就坐着工作。就其本身而言，这并不值得一提，但我很清醒，而且情绪低落。我不知道为什么。至少我认为我不知道为什么。至少，也许我这样做，但我认为这并不重要。

At any rate, I made up my mind to be so dreadfully industrious that I would leave myself not a moment’s leisure to be low-spirited. For I naturally said, ‘Esther! You to be low-spirited. YOU!’ And it really was time to say so, for I—yes, I really did see myself in the glass, almost crying. ‘As if you had anything to make you unhappy, instead of everything to make you happy, you ungrateful heart!’ said I.
无论如何，我下定决心要勤奋得要命，不给自己留下片刻的闲暇去消沉。因为我很自然地说：‘以斯帖！你要情绪低落。你！”确实是时候这么说了，因为我——是的，我确实在镜子里看到了自己，几乎哭了。 “你这忘恩负义的心，好像你有什么东西让你不快乐，而不是一切让你快乐的东西！”我说。

If I could have made myself go to sleep, I would have done it directly, but not being able to do that, I took out of my basket some ornamental work for our house (I mean Bleak House) that I was busy with at that time and sat down to it with great determination. It was necessary to count all the stitches in that work, and I resolved to go on with it until I couldn’t keep my eyes open, and then to go to bed.
如果我能让自己入睡，我会直接做，但做不到，我从篮子里拿出一些我当时正忙着的房子（我的意思是《荒凉山庄》）的装饰品时间到了，并以极大的决心坐下来。这项工作需要数清所有的针脚，我决定继续做下去，直到我睁不开眼睛，然后上床睡觉。

I soon found myself very busy. But I had left some silk downstairs in a work-table drawer in the temporary growlery, and coming to a stop for want of it, I took my candle and went softly down to get it. To my great surprise, on going in I found my guardian still there, and sitting looking at the ashes. He was lost in thought, his book lay unheeded by his side, his silvered iron-grey hair was scattered confusedly upon his forehead as though his hand had been wandering among it while his thoughts were elsewhere, and his face looked worn. Almost frightened by coming upon him so unexpectedly, I stood still for a moment and should have retired without speaking had he not, in again passing his hand abstractedly through his hair, seen me and started.
很快我就发现自己很忙。但我在楼下临时吵闹的工作台抽屉里留下了一些丝绸，我停下来拿了蜡烛，轻轻地下去拿。令我惊讶的是，进去后我发现我的监护人还在那里，坐着看着骨灰。他陷入了沉思，书放在身边无人理睬，铁灰色的银发凌乱地散落在额头上，仿佛他的手在其中游走，而他的思绪却在别处，他的脸色看上去憔悴不堪。我几乎被如此出人意料地撞到他身上吓坏了，我一动不动地站了一会儿，要不是他再次心不在焉地把手伸进头发里，看到我并吓了一跳，我本该一言不发地退出去。

‘Esther!’
“以斯帖！”

I told him what I had come for.
我告诉他我来这里的目的。

‘At work so late, my dear?’
“亲爱的，这么晚才上班吗？”

‘I am working late to-night,’ said I, ‘because I couldn’t sleep and wished to tire myself. But, dear guardian, you are late too, and look weary. You have no trouble, I hope, to keep you waking?’
“我今晚工作到很晚，”我说，“因为我睡不着，想让自己累了。”但是，亲爱的监护人，你也迟到了，而且看上去很疲惫。我希望你不会有什么麻烦让你保持清醒吧？

‘None, little woman, that YOU would readily understand,’ said he.
“没有，小女人，你很容易明白，”他说。

He spoke in a regretful tone so new to me that I inwardly repeated, as if that would help me to his meaning, ‘That I could readily understand!’
他用一种对我来说很陌生的遗憾语气说话，我在心里重复了一遍，好像这能帮助我理解他的意思，“我很容易理解！”

‘Remain a moment, Esther,’ said he, ‘You were in my thoughts.’
“等一下，埃丝特，”他说，“你在我的脑海里。”

‘I hope I was not the trouble, guardian?’
“我希望我不是麻烦，监护人？”

He slightly waved his hand and fell into his usual manner. The change was so remarkable, and he appeared to make it by dint of so much self-command, that I found myself again inwardly repeating, ‘None that I could understand!’
他轻轻一挥手，又恢复了平常的样子。这种变化是如此显着，而且他似乎是凭借如此多的自我控制才做到这一点的，我发现自己再次在内心重复：“我无法理解！”

‘Little woman,’ said my guardian, ‘I was thinking—that is, I have been thinking since I have been sitting here—that you ought to know of your own history all I know. It is very little. Next to nothing.’
“小女人，”我的监护人说，“我在想——也就是说，自从我坐在这里以来我一直在想——你应该知道我所知道的你自己的历史。数量非常少。几乎什么都没有。

‘Dear guardian,’ I replied, ‘when you spoke to me before on that subject—‘
“亲爱的监护人，”我回答道，“当你之前跟我谈过这个话题时——”

‘But since then,’ he gravely interposed, anticipating what I meant to say, ‘I have reflected that your having anything to ask me, and my having anything to tell you, are different considerations, Esther. It is perhaps my duty to impart to you the little I know.’
“但从那时起，”他严肃地插话，预料到了我的意思，“我已经意识到，你有什么要问我的，和我有什么要告诉你的，是不同的考虑，埃丝特。也许我有责任向你传授我所知道的一点点。

‘If you think so, guardian, it is right.’
“如果您这么认为，监护人，那就对了。”

‘I think so,’ he returned very gently, and kindly, and very distinctly. ‘My dear, I think so now. If any real disadvantage can attach to your position in the mind of any man or woman worth a thought, it is right that you at least of all the world should not magnify it to yourself by having vague impressions of its nature.’
“我想是的，”他非常温柔、友善、清晰地回答道。 ‘亲爱的，我现在也是这么想的。如果你在任何值得考虑的男人或女人心目中的地位有任何真正的劣势，那么你至少不应该因为对它的本质有模糊的印象而放大它，这是正确的。

I sat down and said after a little effort to be as calm as I ought to be, ‘One of my earliest remembrances, guardian, is of these words: ‘Your mother, Esther, is your disgrace, and you were hers. The time will come, and soon enough, when you will understand this better, and will feel it too, as no one save a woman can.’’ I had covered my face with my hands in repeating the words, but I took them away now with a better kind of shame, I hope, and told him that to him I owed the blessing that I had from my childhood to that hour never, never, never felt it. He put up his hand as if to stop me. I well knew that he was never to be thanked, and said no more.
我花了一点力气才让自己保持平静，然后坐下来说道：“监护人，我最早的记忆之一就是这样的话：‘你的母亲，埃丝特，是你的耻辱，而你是她的耻辱。总有一天，很快，你就会更好地理解这一点，也会感受到这一点，除了女人之外，没有人能做到。”我用双手捂住脸重复这句话，但我把它们拿走了我希望现在带着一种更好的羞耻感，并告诉他，我从童年到那一刻都得到了祝福，从未、从未、从未感受到过。他举起手，好像要阻止我。我深知永远不会感谢他，便不再多说什么。

‘Nine years, my dear,’ he said after thinking for a little while, ‘have passed since I received a letter from a lady living in seclusion, written with a stern passion and power that rendered it unlike all other letters I have ever read. It was written to me (as it told me in so many words), perhaps because it was the writer’s idiosyncrasy to put that trust in me, perhaps because it was mine to justify it. It told me of a child, an orphan girl then twelve years old, in some such cruel words as those which live in your remembrance. It told me that the writer had bred her in secrecy from her birth, had blotted out all trace of her existence, and that if the writer were to die before the child became a woman, she would be left entirely friendless, nameless, and unknown. It asked me to consider if I would, in that case, finish what the writer had begun.’
“亲爱的，”他想了一会儿说道，“自从我收到一封来自一位隐居女士的来信以来，已经过去了九年了，这封信充满了强烈的激情和力量，与我读过的所有其他信都不一样。 。它是写给我的（正如它用很多字告诉我的那样），也许是因为作者的特质是对我的信任，也许是因为我有理由证明它的合理性。它告诉我一个孩子，一个十二岁的孤女，用一些像你记忆中那样残酷的话语。它告诉我，作者从她出生起就秘密抚养她，抹去了她存在的所有痕迹，如果作者在孩子成为女人之前去世，她将完全没有朋友，无名，无人知晓。 。它要求我考虑在这种情况下我是否会完成作家已经开始的事情。

I listened in silence and looked attentively at him.
我默默地听着，也专注地看着他。

‘Your early recollection, my dear, will supply the gloomy medium through which all this was seen and expressed by the writer, and the distorted religion which clouded her mind with impressions of the need there was for the child to expiate an offence of which she was quite innocent. I felt concerned for the little creature, in her darkened life, and replied to the letter.’
“亲爱的，你早年的回忆将提供一种阴暗的媒介，通过它，作者看到并表达了这一切，而扭曲的宗教则笼罩了她的心灵，让她觉得孩子需要弥补她所犯下的过错。”很无辜。我对这个小生物感到担忧，在她黑暗的生活中，并回复了这封信。

I took his hand and kissed it.
我握住他的手并亲吻它。

‘It laid the injunction on me that I should never propose to see the writer, who had long been estranged from all intercourse with the world, but who would see a confidential agent if I would appoint one. I accredited Mr. Kenge. The lady said, of her own accord and not of his seeking, that her name was an assumed one. That she was, if there were any ties of blood in such a case, the child’s aunt. That more than this she would never (and he was well persuaded of the steadfastness of her resolution) for any human consideration disclose. My dear, I have told you all.’
“这对我下了禁令，我永远不应该提议去见这位作家，他早已与世隔绝，但如果我任命一名机密特工，他会见他。我认可肯格先生。这位女士说，她是自愿的，而不是他寻求的，她的名字是假的。如果在这种情况下有任何血缘关系的话，她就是孩子的姨妈。除此之外，出于人性的考虑，她绝不会透露更多的事情（他深信她的决心是坚定的）。亲爱的，我已经告诉你一切了。

I held his hand for a little while in mine.
我握着他的手一会儿。

‘I saw my ward oftener than she saw me,’ he added, cheerily making light of it, ‘and I always knew she was beloved, useful, and happy. She repays me twenty-thousandfold, and twenty more to that, every hour in every day!’
“我见到我的受监护人的次数比她见到我的次数还多，”他高兴地补充道，“我一直都知道她是受人爱戴的、有用的、快乐的。”她每天每时每刻都回报我两万倍，还有二十倍！”

‘And oftener still,’ said I, ‘“she blesses the guardian who is a father to her!’
“而且更常见的是，”我说，“她祝福作为她父亲的监护人！”

At the word father, I saw his former trouble come into his face. He subdued it as before, and it was gone in an instant; but it had been there and it had come so swiftly upon my words that I felt as if they had given him a shock. I again inwardly repeated, wondering, ‘That I could readily understand. None that I could readily understand!’ No, it was true. I did not understand it. Not for many and many a day.
听到父亲这个词，我看到他脸上浮现出他以前的烦恼。他照旧制服它，转眼间它就消失了；但它就在那里，而且随着我的话而来得如此之快，我觉得好像它们让他震惊了。我心里又重复了一遍，心里纳闷：“我很容易明白。”没有一个是我能轻易理解的！’不，这是真的。我不明白。不是很多很多一天。

‘Take a fatherly good night, my dear,’ said he, kissing me on the forehead, ‘and so to rest. These are late hours for working and thinking. You do that for all of us, all day long, little housekeeper!’
“亲爱的，祝您晚安，亲爱的，”他亲吻我的额头说道，“然后休息一下。”现在是工作和思考的较晚时间。你整天都在为我们所有人做这件事，小管家！”

I neither worked nor thought any more that night. I opened my grateful heart to heaven in thankfulness for its providence to me and its care of me, and fell asleep.
那天晚上我不再工作，也不再思考。我向天堂敞开了感恩的心，感谢它对我的眷顾和照顾，然后就睡着了。

We had a visitor next day. Mr. Allan Woodcourt came. He came to take leave of us; he had settled to do so beforehand. He was going to China and to India as a surgeon on board ship. He was to be away a long, long time.
第二天我们来了一位访客。艾伦·伍德考特先生来了。他来向我们告别；他事先就决定这么做了。他将作为一名船上外科医生前往中国和印度。他要离开很长很长一段时间。

I believe—at least I know—that he was not rich. All his widowed mother could spare had been spent in qualifying him for his profession. It was not lucrative to a young practitioner, with very little influence in London; and although he was, night and day, at the service of numbers of poor people and did wonders of gentleness and skill for them, he gained very little by it in money. He was seven years older than I. Not that I need mention it, for it hardly seems to belong to anything.
我相信——至少我知道——他并不富有。他丧偶的母亲把所有的积蓄都花在了他的职业资格上。对于一个在伦敦影响力很小的年轻从业者来说，这并不有利可图。尽管他夜以继日地为许多穷人服务，并为他们做出了温柔和技巧的奇迹，但他从中获得的金钱却很少。他比我大七岁。我不需要提及这一点，因为它似乎不属于任何东西。

I think—I mean, he told us—that he had been in practice three or four years and that if he could have hoped to contend through three or four more, he would not have made the voyage on which he was bound. But he had no fortune or private means, and so he was going away. He had been to see us several times altogether. We thought it a pity he should go away. Because he was distinguished in his art among those who knew it best, and some of the greatest men belonging to it had a high opinion of him.
我想——我的意思是，他告诉我们——他已经练习了三四年了，如果他还能希望再坚持三四年，他就不会完成他预定的航行了。但他没有财产，也没有私人财产，所以他要离开。他总共来看过我们好几次。我们认为他应该离开很遗憾。因为他的艺术在最了解该艺术的人中是杰出的，并且该艺术领域的一些最伟大的人物对他评价很高。

When he came to bid us good-bye, he brought his mother with him for the first time. She was a pretty old lady, with bright black eyes, but she seemed proud. She came from Wales and had had, a long time ago, an eminent person for an ancestor, of the name of Morgan apKerrig—of some place that sounded like Gimlet—who was the most illustrious person that ever was known and all of whose relations were a sort of royal family. He appeared to have passed his life in always getting up into mountains and fighting somebody; and a bard whose name sounded like Crumlinwallinwer had sung his praises in a piece which was called, as nearly as I could catch it, Mewlinnwillinwodd.
当他来向我们告别时，他第一次带着他的母亲一起来。她是一位漂亮的老太太，有着明亮的黑眼睛，但看上去很骄傲。她来自威尔士，很久以前，有一位杰出的人作为祖先，名叫摩根·阿普·凯里格（Morgan apKerrig）——在某个地方听起来像吉姆莱特——他是有史以来最杰出的人，他的所有亲戚是一种皇室家族。他的一生似乎都是在上山与人打斗中度过的。一位名字听起来像克鲁姆林沃林沃的吟游诗人曾在一首曲子中歌颂过他，据我所知，这首曲子的名字叫《Mewlinnwillinwodd》。

Mrs. Woodcourt, after expatiating to us on the fame of her great kinsman, said that no doubt wherever her son Allan went he would remember his pedigree and would on no account form an alliance below it. She told him that there were many handsome English ladies in India who went out on speculation, and that there were some to be picked up with property, but that neither charms nor wealth would suffice for the descendant from such a line without birth, which must ever be the first consideration. She talked so much about birth that for a moment I half fancied, and with pain— But what an idle fancy to suppose that she could think or care what MINE was!
伍德考特夫人向我们详细介绍了她的伟大亲戚的名声后说，毫无疑问，无论她的儿子艾伦走到哪里，他都会记住自己的血统，并且决不会在其血统之下结成联盟。她告诉他，印度有很多英俊的英国女士出去投机，其中一些可以用财产来获得，但魅力和财富都不足以满足这样一个没有出生的后代，这必须永远是首要考虑的因素。她谈论了太多关于出生的事情，有那么一刻，我半信半疑地、痛苦地想象着——但是假设她能思考或关心我的出生是什么，那是多么无聊的幻想啊！

Mr. Woodcourt seemed a little distressed by her prolixity, but he was too considerate to let her see it and contrived delicately to bring the conversation round to making his acknowledgments to my guardian for his hospitality and for the very happy hours—he called them the very happy hours—he had passed with us. The recollection of them, he said, would go with him wherever he went and would be always treasured. And so we gave him our hands, one after another—at least, they did—and I did; and so he put his lips to Ada’s hand—and to mine; and so he went away upon his long, long voyage!
伍德考特先生似乎对她的冗长感到有点苦恼，但他太体贴了，没有让她看到这一点，并巧妙地把谈话转入对我的监护人的热情款待和非常快乐的时光的感谢——他称他们为“非常快乐的时光——他和我们一起度过了。他说，无论他走到哪里，对他们的回忆都会伴随着他，并将永远被珍惜。于是我们一只又一只地向他伸出了双手——至少，他们这么做了——而我也这么做了。于是他把嘴唇放在艾达的手上——还有我的手。就这样，他踏上了漫长的旅程！

I was very busy indeed all day and wrote directions home to the servants, and wrote notes for my guardian, and dusted his books and papers, and jingled my housekeeping keys a good deal, one way and another. I was still busy between the lights, singing and working by the window, when who should come in but Caddy, whom I had no expectation of seeing!
我一整天确实很忙，给仆人写回家的指示，给我的监护人写便条，掸掉他的书本和文件，并用各种方式敲响我的家务钥匙。灯火通明时，我仍然忙着在窗边唱歌和工作，这时除了凯迪谁应该进来，我没想到会见到他！

‘Why, Caddy, my dear,’ said I, ‘what beautiful flowers!’
“哎呀，凯迪，亲爱的，”我说，“多么美丽的花啊！”

She had such an exquisite little nosegay in her hand.
她手里拿着一根如此精致的小花束。

‘Indeed, I think so, Esther,’ replied Caddy. ‘They are the loveliest I ever saw.’
“确实，我想是这样，埃丝特，”凯迪回答道。 “它们是我见过的最可爱的。”

‘Prince, my dear?’ said I in a whisper.
“王子，亲爱的？”我低声说道。

‘No,’ answered Caddy, shaking her head and holding them to me to smell. ‘Not Prince.’
“不，”凯蒂回答道，摇着头，把它们递给我闻。 “不是王子。”

‘Well, to be sure, Caddy!’ said I. ‘You must have two lovers!’
“好吧，当然，凯迪！”我说，“你一定有两个情人！”

‘What? Do they look like that sort of thing?’ said Caddy.
'什么？它们看起来像那种东西吗？”凯迪说。

‘Do they look like that sort of thing?’ I repeated, pinching her cheek.
“它们看起来像那种东西吗？”我重复道，捏了捏她的脸颊。

Caddy only laughed in return, and telling me that she had come for half an hour, at the expiration of which time Prince would be waiting for her at the corner, sat chatting with me and Ada in the window, every now and then handing me the flowers again or trying how they looked against my hair. At last, when she was going, she took me into my room and put them in my dress.
凯蒂只是笑笑，告诉我她已经来了半个小时，到了这段时间普林斯就会在拐角处等她，坐在窗边和我和艾达聊天，时不时地把我递给我。再次欣赏花朵，或者尝试它们与我的头发的搭配。最后，当她要走的时候，她把我带进了我的房间，把它们放进了我的衣服里。

‘For me?’ said I, surprised.
“给我的？”我惊讶地说。

‘For you,’ said Caddy with a kiss. ‘They were left behind by somebody.’
“为了你，”凯迪亲吻道。 “他们被某人留下了。”

‘Left behind?’
'被留下来？'

‘At poor Miss Flite’s,’ said Caddy. ‘Somebody who has been very good to her was hurrying away an hour ago to join a ship and left these flowers behind. No, no! Don’t take them out. Let the pretty little things lie here,’ said Caddy, adjusting them with a careful hand, ‘because I was present myself, and I shouldn’t wonder if somebody left them on purpose!’
“在可怜的弗利特小姐家，”凯迪说。 “一个对她很好的人一小时前匆匆离开去上船，留下了这些花。不，不！不要把它们拿出来。让这些漂亮的小东西放在这里吧，”凯迪一边说，一边小心翼翼地调整着它们，“因为我自己也在场，我不应该怀疑是不是有人故意把它们留下的！”

‘Do they look like that sort of thing?’ said Ada, coming laughingly behind me and clasping me merrily round the waist. ‘Oh, yes, indeed they do, Dame Durden! They look very, very like that sort of thing. Oh, very like it indeed, my dear!’
“它们看起来像那种东西吗？”艾达笑着走到我身后，高兴地搂住我的腰。 “哦，是的，确实如此，杜登夫人！它们看起来非常非常像那种东西。哦，确实很喜欢，亲爱的！

CHAPTER XVIII
第十八章


Lady Dedlock
德洛克夫人

It was not so easy as it had appeared at first to arrange for Richard’s making a trial of Mr. Kenge’s office. Richard himself was the chief impediment. As soon as he had it in his power to leave Mr. Badger at any moment, he began to doubt whether he wanted to leave him at all. He didn’t know, he said, really. It wasn’t a bad profession; he couldn’t assert that he disliked it; perhaps he liked it as well as he liked any other—suppose he gave it one more chance! Upon that, he shut himself up for a few weeks with some books and some bones and seemed to acquire a considerable fund of information with great rapidity. His fervour, after lasting about a month, began to cool, and when it was quite cooled, began to grow warm again. His vacillations between law and medicine lasted so long that midsummer arrived before he finally separated from Mr. Badger and entered on an experimental course of Messrs. Kenge and Carboy. For all his waywardness, he took great credit to himself as being determined to be in earnest ‘this time.’ And he was so good-natured throughout, and in such high spirits, and so fond of Ada, that it was very difficult indeed to be otherwise than pleased with him.
安排理查德参观肯吉先生的办公室并不像一开始看上去那么容易。理查德本人是主要障碍。一旦他有能力随时离开獾先生，他就开始怀疑自己是否真的想离开他。他说，他真的不知道。这并不是一个糟糕的职业。他不能断言他不喜欢它；也许他喜欢它就像喜欢其他任何东西一样——假设他再给它一次机会！此后，他用一些书和一些骨头把自己关了几个星期，似乎很快就获得了相当多的信息。他的热情持续了一个月左右，就开始冷却，等冷却到一定程度，又开始变得热烈起来。他在法律和医学之间犹豫不决，持续了很长时间，以至于仲夏到来，他最终与巴杰先生分开，并开始了肯格先生和卡博伊先生的实验课程。尽管他任性，他却自以为“这一次”是认真的。而且他自始至终都是那么好脾气，那么兴高采烈，又那么喜欢艾达，这确实是非常困难的。对他不满意。

‘As to Mr. Jarndyce,’ who, I may mention, found the wind much given, during this period, to stick in the east; ‘As to Mr. Jarndyce,’ Richard would say to me, ‘he is the finest fellow in the world, Esther! I must be particularly careful, if it were only for his satisfaction, to take myself well to task and have a regular wind-up of this business now.’
“至于贾迪斯先生，”我可以提一下，他发现这一时期的风向大多为东风； “至于贾迪斯先生，”理查德会对我说，“他是世界上最好的人，埃丝特！如果只是为了让他满意的话，我必须特别小心，认真对待自己的任务，并定期结束这件事。

The idea of his taking himself well to task, with that laughing face and heedless manner and with a fancy that everything could catch and nothing could hold, was ludicrously anomalous. However, he told us between-whiles that he was doing it to such an extent that he wondered his hair didn’t turn grey. His regular wind-up of the business was (as I have said) that he went to Mr. Kenge’s about midsummer to try how he liked it.
他带着那张笑脸和漫不经心的态度，带着一切都能抓住而没有任何东西能抓住的幻想，认真对待自己的任务，这种想法是荒谬的、反常的。然而，他偶尔告诉我们，他这样做的程度已经达到了他怀疑自己的头发没有变白的程度。他对这件事的常规结束是（正如我所说的），他在仲夏时节去肯格先生那里尝试一下他喜欢的方式。

All this time he was, in money affairs, what I have described him in a former illustration—generous, profuse, wildly careless, but fully persuaded that he was rather calculating and prudent. I happened to say to Ada, in his presence, half jestingly, half seriously, about the time of his going to Mr. Kenge’s, that he needed to have Fortunatus’ purse, he made so light of money, which he answered in this way, ‘My jewel of a dear cousin, you hear this old woman! Why does she say that? Because I gave eight pounds odd (or whatever it was) for a certain neat waistcoat and buttons a few days ago. Now, if I had stayed at Badger’s I should have been obliged to spend twelve pounds at a blow for some heart-breaking lecture-fees. So I make four pounds—in a lump—by the transaction!’
在金钱事务上，他一直都是我在前面的例子中所描述的那样——慷慨、慷慨、粗心大意，但完全相信他是相当精于算计和谨慎的。当艾达在场的时候，我碰巧半开玩笑半认真地对艾达说，关于他去肯格先生那儿的事，他需要福尔图纳图斯的钱包，他挣钱太轻了，他是这样回答的'我亲爱的表弟的宝贝，你听到这个老妇人的声音了！她为什么这么说？因为几天前我花了八英镑（或者不管是什么）买了一件整洁的背心和纽扣。现在，如果我留在獾学院，我就不得不一下子花掉十二英镑来支付一些令人心碎的讲座费。所以我通过这次交易一下子赚了四英镑！”

It was a question much discussed between him and my guardian what arrangements should be made for his living in London while he experimented on the law, for we had long since gone back to Bleak House, and it was too far off to admit of his coming there oftener than once a week. My guardian told me that if Richard were to settle down at Mr. Kenge’s he would take some apartments or chambers where we too could occasionally stay for a few days at a time; ‘but, little woman,’ he added, rubbing his head very significantly, ‘he hasn’t settled down there yet!’ The discussions ended in our hiring for him, by the month, a neat little furnished lodging in a quiet old house near Queen Square. He immediately began to spend all the money he had in buying the oddest little ornaments and luxuries for this lodging; and so often as Ada and I dissuaded him from making any purchase that he had in contemplation which was particularly unnecessary and expensive, he took credit for what it would have cost and made out that to spend anything less on something else was to save the difference.
这是他和我的监护人经常讨论的一个问题，当他尝试法律时，他在伦敦的生活应该如何安排，因为我们早已回到了荒凉山庄，距离承认他的到来还太遥远。每周不止一次。我的监护人告诉我，如果理查德要在肯吉先生家安顿下来，他会租一些公寓或房间，我们也可以偶尔在那里住上几天。 “但是，小女人，”他意味深长地揉了揉头，补充道，“他还没有在那儿安定下来！”讨论最终以我们按月为他租用了一栋安静的老房子里一间布置整洁的小住所而告终。皇后广场附近。他立即开始花光所有的钱，为这个住所购买最奇怪的小装饰品和奢侈品。当艾达和我经常劝阻他不要购买任何他认为特别不必要和昂贵的东西时，他就把这笔钱归功于自己，并认为在其他东西上少花点钱就是为了节省差额。 。

While these affairs were in abeyance, our visit to Mr. Boythorn’s was postponed. At length, Richard having taken possession of his lodging, there was nothing to prevent our departure. He could have gone with us at that time of the year very well, but he was in the full novelty of his new position and was making most energetic attempts to unravel the mysteries of the fatal suit. Consequently we went without him, and my darling was delighted to praise him for being so busy.
当这些事务暂时搁置时，我们对博伊索恩先生家的拜访也被推迟了。最后，理查德占领了他的住所，没有什么可以阻止我们离开。他本可以在一年中的那个时候很好地和我们一起去，但他对他的新职位充满了新鲜感，并且正在尽最大努力来揭开致命套装的神秘面纱。结果我们就没有他了，我亲爱的很高兴地称赞他这么忙。

We made a pleasant journey down into Lincolnshire by the coach and had an entertaining companion in Mr. Skimpole. His furniture had been all cleared off, it appeared, by the person who took possession of it on his blue-eyed daughter’s birthday, but he seemed quite relieved to think that it was gone. Chairs and table, he said, were wearisome objects; they were monotonous ideas, they had no variety of expression, they looked you out of countenance, and you looked them out of countenance. How pleasant, then, to be bound to no particular chairs and tables, but to sport like a butterfly among all the furniture on hire, and to flit from rosewood to mahogany, and from mahogany to walnut, and from this shape to that, as the humour took one!
我们乘坐长途汽车前往林肯郡，度过了一段愉快的旅程，并有一位有趣的同伴斯基姆波尔先生。他的家具似乎在他蓝眼睛女儿生日那天被占有它的人全部清理掉了，但想到家具不见了，他似乎松了口气。他说，椅子和桌子都是令人厌烦的东西；它们都是单调的想法，它们没有变化的表达方式，它们不高兴地看着你，而你也同样不高兴地看着他们。那么，不拘泥于特定的椅子和桌子，而是像蝴蝶一样在所有租用的家具中嬉戏，从红木飞到桃花心木，从桃花心木飞到胡桃木，从这种形状飞到那种形状，这是多么令人愉快的事情。幽默拿了一个！

‘The oddity of the thing is,’ said Mr. Skimpole with a quickened sense of the ludicrous, ‘that my chairs and tables were not paid for, and yet my landlord walks off with them as composedly as possible. Now, that seems droll! There is something grotesque in it. The chair and table merchant never engaged to pay my landlord my rent. Why should my landlord quarrel with HIM? If I have a pimple on my nose which is disagreeable to my landlord’s peculiar ideas of beauty, my landlord has no business to scratch my chair and table merchant’s nose, which has no pimple on it. His reasoning seems defective!’
“事情的奇怪之处在于，”斯金波尔先生说，他的语气里突然有一种荒唐的感觉，“我的椅子和桌子都没有付钱，但我的房东却尽可​​能泰然自若地把它们带走了。”现在，这看起来很滑稽！这里面有一些怪诞的东西。桌椅商人从未承诺向房东支付房租。为什么我的房东要和他争吵？如果我鼻子上长了一个疙瘩，不符合房东独特的审美观念，那么房东就没有权利去抓我桌椅商人的鼻子，因为鼻子上没有疙瘩。他的推理似乎有缺陷！

‘Well,’ said my guardian good-humouredly, ‘it’s pretty clear that whoever became security for those chairs and tables will have to pay for them.’
“好吧，”我的监护人幽默地说，“很明显，无论谁担任这些椅子和桌子的保安，都必须支付费用。”

‘Exactly!’ returned Mr. Skimpole. ‘That’s the crowning point of unreason in the business! I said to my landlord, ‘My good man, you are not aware that my excellent friend Jarndyce will have to pay for those things that you are sweeping off in that indelicate manner. Have you no consideration for HIS property?’ He hadn’t the least.’
“完全正确！”斯金波尔先生回答道。 ‘这就是这个行业最不合理的地方！我对房东说：‘我的好朋友，你不知道我的好朋友贾迪斯将不得不为你以这种不礼貌的方式扫走的东西付出代价。你不考虑他的财产吗？”他一点也没有。”

‘And refused all proposals,’ said my guardian.
“并拒绝了所有的提议，”我的监护人说。

‘Refused all proposals,’ returned Mr. Skimpole. ‘I made him business proposals. I had him into my room. I said, ‘You are a man of business, I believe?’ He replied, ‘I am,’ ‘Very well,’ said I, ‘now let us be business-like. Here is an inkstand, here are pens and paper, here are wafers. What do you want? I have occupied your house for a considerable period, I believe to our mutual satisfaction until this unpleasant misunderstanding arose; let us be at once friendly and business-like. What do you want?’ In reply to this, he made use of the figurative expression—which has something Eastern about it—that he had never seen the colour of my money. ‘My amiable friend,’ said I, ‘I never have any money. I never know anything about money.’ ‘Well, sir,’ said he, ‘what do you offer if I give you time?’ ‘My good fellow,’ said I, ‘I have no idea of time; but you say you are a man of business, and whatever you can suggest to be done in a business-like way with pen, and ink, and paper—and wafers—I am ready to do. Don’t pay yourself at another man’s expense (which is foolish), but be business-like!’ However, he wouldn’t be, and there was an end of it.’
“拒绝所有提议，”斯金波尔先生回答道。 “我向他提出了商业建议。我把他带进了我的房间。我说：“你是个生意人，我相信吗？”他回答说：“我是。”“很好，”我说，“现在让我们做生意吧。”这是墨水瓶，这是笔和纸，这是薄饼。你想要什么？我已经在你家住了相当长一段时间了，我相信我们双方都满意，直到发生了这种不愉快的误会；让我们既友好又务实。你想要什么？”作为回答，他用了一个带有东方意味的比喻表达：他从未见过我的钱的颜色。 “我亲爱的朋友，”我说，“我从来没有钱。” “好吧，先生，”他说，“如果我给你时间，你能提供什么？”但你说你是一个生意人，无论你建议用笔、墨水、纸张——还有威化饼——以一种商业化的方式完成任何事情，我都准备好了。不要以牺牲别人为代价来支付自己的工资（这是愚蠢的），而是要务实一点！”然而，他不会这样做，事情就这样结束了。”

If these were some of the inconveniences of Mr. Skimpole’s childhood, it assuredly possessed its advantages too. On the journey he had a very good appetite for such refreshment as came in our way (including a basket of choice hothouse peaches), but never thought of paying for anything. So when the coachman came round for his fee, he pleasantly asked him what he considered a very good fee indeed, now—a liberal one—and on his replying half a crown for a single passenger, said it was little enough too, all things considered, and left Mr. Jarndyce to give it him.
如果说这些是斯金波尔先生童年的一些不便之处，那么它肯定也有其优点。在旅途中，他对我们途中遇到的茶点非常感兴趣（包括一篮精选温室桃子），但从未想过要付钱。因此，当车夫来收取费用时，他愉快地问他现在认为什么是非常好的费用——一个自由的费用——当他回答一个乘客半克朗时，他说这也足够少了，所有的事情想了想，然后让贾迪斯先生把它交给他。

It was delightful weather. The green corn waved so beautifully, the larks sang so joyfully, the hedges were so full of wild flowers, the trees were so thickly out in leaf, the bean-fields, with a light wind blowing over them, filled the air with such a delicious fragrance! Late in the afternoon we came to the markettown where we were to alight from the coach—a dull little town with a church-spire, and a marketplace, and a market-cross, and one intensely sunny street, and a pond with an old horse cooling his legs in it, and a very few men sleepily lying and standing about in narrow little bits of shade. After the rustling of the leaves and the waving of the corn all along the road, it looked as still, as hot, as motionless a little town as England could produce.
天气宜人。绿色的玉米摇曳得多么美丽，百灵鸟的歌声多么欢快，树篱上开满了野花，树木长满了叶子，豆田里，微风吹过，空气中充满了这样的气息。美味的香味！下午晚些时候，我们来到了集镇，在那里我们下了车——一个沉闷的小镇，有一个教堂尖顶，一个市场，一个市场十字路口，一条阳光灿烂的街道，还有一个池塘，里面有一个古老的池塘。马在里面冷却双腿，几个人睡眼惺忪地躺在或站在狭窄的小树荫下。路边树叶沙沙作响，玉米随风摇曳，这里看起来像英格兰小镇一样寂静、炎热、一动不动。

At the inn we found Mr. Boythorn on horseback, waiting with an open carriage to take us to his house, which was a few miles off. He was over-joyed to see us and dismounted with great alacrity.
在旅馆里，我们发现博伊索恩先生骑在马背上，正用一辆敞篷马车等着带我们去几英里外的他家。他看到我们非常高兴，并迅速下了马。

‘By heaven!’ said he after giving us a courteous greeting. This a most infamous coach. It is the most flagrant example of an abominable public vehicle that ever encumbered the face of the earth. It is twenty-five minutes after its time this afternoon. The coachman ought to be put to death!’
“天哪！”他在礼貌地向我们打招呼后说道。这是一位最臭名昭著的教练。这是有史以来阻碍地球表面的令人厌恶的公共车辆的最明目张胆的例子。今天下午的时间已经过去二十五分钟了。车夫应该被处死！

‘IS he after his time?’ said Mr. Skimpole, to whom he happened to address himself. ‘You know my infirmity.’
“他是不是已经过时了？”斯基姆波尔先生问道，他碰巧对着自己说话。 “你知道我的软弱。”

‘Twenty-five minutes! Twenty-six minutes!’ replied Mr. Boythorn, referring to his watch. ‘With two ladies in the coach, this scoundrel has deliberately delayed his arrival six and twenty minutes. Deliberately! It is impossible that it can be accidental! But his father—and his uncle—were the most profligate coachmen that ever sat upon a box.’
‘二十五分钟！ “二十六分钟！”博伊索恩先生指着手表回答道。 “车厢里有两名女士，这个恶棍故意推迟了六到二十分钟的到达时间。故意地！不可能是偶然！但他的父亲和他的叔叔是有史以来最挥霍的车夫。

While he said this in tones of the greatest indignation, he handed us into the little phaeton with the utmost gentleness and was all smiles and pleasure.
当他以极其愤怒的语气说这句话的时候，他却极其温柔地把我们送进了那辆小马车，脸上满是微笑和愉快。

‘I am sorry, ladies,’ he said, standing bare-headed at the carriage-door when all was ready, ‘that I am obliged to conduct you nearly two miles out of the way. But our direct road lies through Sir Leicester Dedlock’s park, and in that fellow’s property I have sworn never to set foot of mine, or horse’s foot of mine, pending the present relations between us, while I breathe the breath of life!’ And here, catching my guardian’s eye, he broke into one of his tremendous laughs, which seemed to shake even the motionless little market-town.
“对不起，女士们，”一切准备就绪后，他光着头站在马车门边说道，“我不得不带你们走近两英里。但我们的直接道路是穿过莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士的公园，在那个家伙的财产中，我发誓，在我们之间目前的关系之前，当我呼吸着生命的气息时，我永远不会踏足我的脚，或我的马脚！当我的监护人注意到他的时候，他爆发出一阵大笑，似乎连一动不动的小集镇都震动了。

‘Are the Dedlocks down here, Lawrence?’ said my guardian as we drove along and Mr. Boythorn trotted on the green turf by the roadside.
“戴德洛克夫妇在这儿吗，劳伦斯？”我们开车前行时，我的监护人问道，博伊索恩先生在路边的绿色草坪上小跑。

‘Sir Arrogant Numskull is here,’ replied Mr. Boythorn. ‘Ha ha ha! Sir Arrogant is here, and I am glad to say, has been laid by the heels here. My Lady,’ in naming whom he always made a courtly gesture as if particularly to exclude her from any part in the quarrel, ‘is expected, I believe, daily. I am not in the least surprised that she postpones her appearance as long as possible. Whatever can have induced that transcendent woman to marry that effigy and figure-head of a baronet is one of the most impenetrable mysteries that ever baffled human inquiry. Ha ha ha ha!’
“傲慢的傻瓜先生在这里，”博伊索恩先生回答道。 ‘哈哈哈！傲慢先生就在这里，我很高兴地说，他已经在这里落败了。 “我的女士，”在提到她的名字时，他总是做出一种礼貌的姿态，仿佛是特意将她排除在争吵之外，“我相信，每天都在期待着她。”对于她尽可能推迟露面，我一点也不感到惊讶。无论是什么原因促使这位超凡脱俗的女人嫁给了那个从男爵的肖像和头像，都是人类探究中最难解的谜团之一。哈哈哈哈！’

‘I suppose, said my guardian, laughing, ‘WE may set foot in the park while we are here? The prohibition does not extend to us, does it?’
“我想，”我的监护人笑着说，“我们在这里的时候可以踏足公园吗？”这项禁令并不适用于我们，不是吗？

‘I can lay no prohibition on my guests,’ he said, bending his head to Ada and me with the smiling politeness which sat so gracefully upon him, ‘except in the matter of their departure. I am only sorry that I cannot have the happiness of being their escort about Chesney Wold, which is a very fine place! But by the light of this summer day, Jarndyce, if you call upon the owner while you stay with me, you are likely to have but a cool reception. He carries himself like an eight-day clock at all times, like one of a race of eight-day clocks in gorgeous cases that never go and never went—Ha ha ha!—but he will have some extra stiffness, I can promise you, for the friends of his friend and neighbour Boythorn!’
“我不能禁止我的客人，”他一边说，一边向艾达和我低下头，脸上带着优雅的微笑和礼貌，“除了他们离开的事情。”我只是很遗憾我不能有幸成为他们护送切斯尼沃尔德的快乐，那是一个非常好的地方！但在这个夏日的阳光下，贾迪斯，如果你在和我住在一起的时候拜访主人，你很可能会受到冷遇。他始终表现得像一个八天时钟，就像一场八天时钟竞赛中的一场比赛，在华丽的盒子里，从来没有走过，也从来没有走过——哈哈哈！——但他会有一些额外的僵硬，我可以向你保证，为了他的朋友和邻居博伊索恩的朋友们！”

‘I shall not put him to the proof,’ said my guardian. ‘He is as indifferent to the honour of knowing me, I dare say, as I am to the honour of knowing him. The air of the grounds and perhaps such a view of the house as any other sightseer might get are quite enough for me.’
“我不会让他接受证据，”我的监护人说。 “我敢说，他对认识我的荣誉漠不关心，就像我对认识他的荣誉漠不关心一样。”庭院里的空气，也许还有其他观光者可能看到的房子的景色对我来说已经足够了。

‘Well!’ said Mr. Boythorn. ‘I am glad of it on the whole. It’s in better keeping. I am looked upon about here as a second Ajax defying the lightning. Ha ha ha ha! When I go into our little church on a Sunday, a considerable part of the inconsiderable congregation expect to see me drop, scorched and withered, on the pavement under the Dedlock displeasure. Ha ha ha ha! I have no doubt he is surprised that I don’t. For he is, by heaven, the most self-satisfied, and the shallowest, and the most coxcombical and utterly brainless ass!’
“好吧！”博伊索恩先生说。 “总的来说，我对此感到高兴。它保存得更好。我在这里被视为第二个反抗闪电的阿贾克斯。哈哈哈哈！当我周日走进我们的小教堂时，相当一部分微不足道的会众都希望看到我在戴德洛克的不悦之下倒在人行道上，被烧焦和枯萎。哈哈哈哈！我毫不怀疑他会因为我不这样做而感到惊讶。因为他是天哪，最自鸣得意、最浅薄、最浮夸、最无脑的混蛋！

Our coming to the ridge of a hill we had been ascending enabled our friend to point out Chesney Wold itself to us and diverted his attention from its master.
当我们来到我们一直在攀登的山脊时，我们的朋友能够向我们指出切斯尼森林本身，并转移他对主人的注意力。

It was a picturesque old house in a fine park richly wooded. Among the trees and not far from the residence he pointed out the spire of the little church of which he had spoken. Oh, the solemn woods over which the light and shadow travelled swiftly, as if heavenly wings were sweeping on benignant errands through the summer air; the smooth green slopes, the glittering water, the garden where the flowers were so symmetrically arranged in clusters of the richest colours, how beautiful they looked! The house, with gable and chimney, and tower, and turret, and dark doorway, and broad terrace-walk, twining among the balustrades of which, and lying heaped upon the vases, there was one great flush of roses, seemed scarcely real in its light solidity and in the serene and peaceful hush that rested on all around it. To Ada and to me, that above all appeared the pervading influence. On everything, house, garden, terrace, green slopes, water, old oaks, fern, moss, woods again, and far away across the openings in the prospect to the distance lying wide before us with a purple bloom upon it, there seemed to be such undisturbed repose.
那是一座风景如画的老房子，坐落在一个树木繁茂的美丽公园里。他指着树林中离住所不远的地方，指着他所说的那座小教堂的尖顶。哦，庄严的树林，光影在其上飞快地掠过，仿佛天堂的翅膀在夏日的空气中扫过，执行着仁慈的使命；光滑的绿色山坡，波光粼粼的水面，花园里的花朵对称地排列成簇，色彩最丰富，看起来多么美丽啊！这座房子，有山墙、烟囱、塔楼、塔楼、黑暗的门口，还有宽阔的露台走道，栏杆缠绕在栏杆之间，花瓶上堆放着一大朵玫瑰花，看起来几乎不真实。其轻盈的坚固性以及周围宁静祥和的寂静。对艾达和我来说，最重要的是无处不在的影响力。在一切事物上，房子、花园、露台、绿色的山坡、水、老橡树、蕨类植物、苔藓、树林，还有远处的视野中的开口，远方就在我们面前，上面开着紫色的花朵，似乎有如此不受打扰的休息。

When we came into the little village and passed a small inn with the sign of the Dedlock Arms swinging over the road in front, Mr. Boythorn interchanged greetings with a young gentleman sitting on a bench outside the inn-door who had some fishing-tackle lying beside him.
当我们走进小村庄，经过一家小客栈时，前面的路上挂着戴德洛克手臂的招牌，博伊索恩先生和一位坐在客栈门外长凳上的年轻绅士寒暄了一番，这位年轻绅士拿着一些渔具。躺在他身边。

‘That’s the housekeeper’s grandson, Mr. Rouncewell by name,’ said, he, ‘and he is in love with a pretty girl up at the house. Lady Dedlock has taken a fancy to the pretty girl and is going to keep her about her own fair person—an honour which my young friend himself does not at all appreciate. However, he can’t marry just yet, even if his Rosebud were willing; so he is fain to make the best of it. In the meanwhile, he comes here pretty often for a day or two at a time to—fish. Ha ha ha ha!’
“那是管家的孙子，名叫朗斯韦尔先生，”他说，“他爱上了家里的一个漂亮女孩。戴德洛克夫人看上了这个漂亮的女孩，并打算让她成为自己美丽的人——我年轻的朋友本人根本不欣赏这种荣幸。然而，即使他的玫瑰花蕾愿意，他现在还不能结婚；所以他很想充分利用它。与此同时，他经常来这里钓鱼一两天。哈哈哈哈！’

‘Are he and the pretty girl engaged, Mr. Boythorn?’ asked Ada.
“博伊索恩先生，他和那个漂亮女孩订婚了吗？”艾达问。

‘Why, my dear Miss Clare,’ he returned, ‘I think they may perhaps understand each other; but you will see them soon, I dare say, and I must learn from you on such a point—not you from me.’
“哎呀，我亲爱的克莱尔小姐，”他回答道，“我想他们或许可以互相理解；但是，我想他们可能会互相理解。”但我敢说，你很快就会看到它们，在这一点上我必须向你学习，而不是你向我学习。

Ada blushed, and Mr. Boythorn, trotting forward on his comely grey horse, dismounted at his own door and stood ready with extended arm and uncovered head to welcome us when we arrived.
艾达脸红了，博伊索恩先生骑着他那匹漂亮的灰马小跑着，在自家门口下马，伸出手臂，不戴帽子，准备迎接我们的到来。

He lived in a pretty house, formerly the parsonage house, with a lawn in front, a bright flower-garden at the side, and a wellstocked orchard and kitchen-garden in the rear, enclosed with a venerable wall that had of itself a ripened ruddy look. But, indeed, everything about the place wore an aspect of maturity and abundance. The old lime-tree walk was like green cloisters, the very shadows of the cherry-trees and apple-trees were heavy with fruit, the gooseberry-bushes were so laden that their branches arched and rested on the earth, the strawberries and raspberries grew in like profusion, and the peaches basked by the hundred on the wall. Tumbled about among the spread nets and the glass frames sparkling and winking in the sun there were such heaps of drooping pods, and marrows, and cucumbers, that every foot of ground appeared a vegetable treasury, while the smell of sweet herbs and all kinds of wholesome growth (to say nothing of the neighbouring meadows where the hay was carrying) made the whole air a great nosegay. Such stillness and composure reigned within the orderly precincts of the old red wall that even the feathers hung in garlands to scare the birds hardly stirred; and the wall had such a ripening influence that where, here and there high up, a disused nail and scrap of list still clung to it, it was easy to fancy that they had mellowed with the changing seasons and that they had rusted and decayed according to the common fate.
他住在一栋漂亮的房子里，以前是牧师住宅，前面有草坪，旁边有一个明亮的花园，后面有一个资源丰富的果园和菜园，围着一堵古老的墙，墙本身就成熟了。面色红润。但事实上，这个地方的一切都显得成熟而丰富。古老的椴树步道就像绿色的回廊，樱桃树和苹果树的树荫下结满了果实，醋栗丛结满了果实，树枝拱成拱形，落在地上，草莓和覆盆子生长大量的桃子，还有数百个挂在墙上的桃子。铺开的网和在阳光下闪闪发光的玻璃框之间翻滚着，有一堆堆下垂的豆荚、骨髓和黄瓜，每一英尺的土地都像一个蔬菜宝库，甜香草和各种蔬菜的气味扑鼻而来。健康的生长（更不用说附近的草地上有干草了）使整个空气成为一个伟大的花束。古老的红墙秩序井然，一片寂静和平静，就连挂在花环上吓鸟的羽毛也几乎没有动静。这堵墙有一种成熟的影响力，以至于高处到处都还粘着废弃的钉子和碎木片，很容易让人认为它们已经随着季节的变化而变得成熟，并且根据季节的变化它们已经生锈和腐烂了。为了共同的命运。

The house, though a little disorderly in comparison with the garden, was a real old house with settles in the chimney of the brick-floored kitchen and great beams across the ceilings. On one side of it was the terrible piece of ground in dispute, where Mr. Boythorn maintained a sentry in a smock-frock day and night, whose duty was supposed to be, in cases of aggression, immediately to ring a large bell hung up there for the purpose, to unchain a great bull-dog established in a kennel as his ally, and generally to deal destruction on the enemy. Not content with these precautions, Mr. Boythorn had himself composed and posted there, on painted boards to which his name was attached in large letters, the following solemn warnings: ‘Beware of the bull-dog. He is most ferocious. Lawrence Boythorn.’ ‘The blunderbus is loaded with slugs. Lawrence Boythorn.’ ‘Man-traps and spring-guns are set here at all times of the day and night. Lawrence Boythorn.’ ‘Take notice. That any person or persons audaciously presuming to trespass on this property will be punished with the utmost severity of private chastisement and prosecuted with the utmost rigour of the law. Lawrence Boythorn.’ These he showed us from the drawing-room window, while his bird was hopping about his head, and he laughed, ‘Ha ha ha ha! Ha ha ha ha!’ to that extent as he pointed them out that I really thought he would have hurt himself.
这座房子虽然与花园相比有点杂乱，但却是一座真正的老房子，砖地板厨房的烟囱里有安乐窝，天花板上有大横梁。一侧是一片令人恐惧的有争议的土地，博伊索恩先生日日夜夜地派出一名穿着罩衫的哨兵，他的职责应该是，一旦发生侵略，立即敲响悬挂的大钟。其目的是解开狗舍里作为盟友的大斗牛犬，通常是为了对敌人造成毁灭性打击。博伊索恩先生对这些预防措施并不满足，他亲自撰写并张贴在画板上，上面用大写字母写着他的名字，如下严正警告：“小心斗牛犬。”他最为凶猛。劳伦斯·博伊索恩。”“火铳里装满了子弹。劳伦斯·博伊索恩。”“这里白天和晚上的任何时候都设置了捕人陷阱和弹簧枪。劳伦斯·博伊索恩。”“注意了。任何胆敢侵犯该财产的人都将受到最严厉的私人惩罚，并受到最严格的法律起诉。劳伦斯·博伊索恩。”他从客厅的窗户向我们展示了这些，而他的鸟儿在他的头上跳来跳去，他笑了，“哈哈哈哈！哈哈哈哈！”当他指出时，我真的以为他会伤害自己。

‘But this is taking a good deal of trouble,’ said Mr. Skimpole in his light way, ‘when you are not in earnest after all.’
“但是这会很麻烦，”斯金波尔先生轻松地说，“毕竟你不是认真的。”

‘Not in earnest!’ returned Mr. Boythorn with unspeakable warmth. ‘Not in earnest! If I could have hoped to train him, I would have bought a lion instead of that dog and would have turned him loose upon the first intolerable robber who should dare to make an encroachment on my rights. Let Sir Leicester Dedlock consent to come out and decide this question by single combat, and I will meet him with any weapon known to mankind in any age or country. I am that much in earnest. Not more!’
“不是认真的！”博伊索恩先生带着难以言表的热情回答道。 ‘不是认真的！如果我能希望训练他，我会买一头狮子而不是那条狗，并会把他释放到第一个敢于侵犯我权利的令人难以容忍的强盗身上。让莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士同意出来通过一场决斗来解决这个问题，我将用任何时代、任何国家的人类已知的任何武器来与他会面。我就是这么认真。不多！'

We arrived at his house on a Saturday. On the Sunday morning we all set forth to walk to the little church in the park. Entering the park, almost immediately by the disputed ground, we pursued a pleasant footpath winding among the verdant turf and the beautiful trees until it brought us to the church-porch.
我们在星期六到达了他家。周日早上，我们一起出发步行前往公园里的小教堂。进入公园，几乎立刻就到了有争议的地方，我们沿着一条令人愉快的小路蜿蜒在青翠的草坪和美丽的树木之间，直到它把我们带到了教堂门廊。

The congregation was extremely small and quite a rustic one with the exception of a large muster of servants from the house, some of whom were already in their seats, while others were yet dropping in. There were some stately footmen, and there was a perfect picture of an old coachman, who looked as if he were the official representative of all the pomps and vanities that had ever been put into his coach. There was a very pretty show of young women, and above them, the handsome old face and fine responsible portly figure of the housekeeper towered pre-eminent. The pretty girl of whom Mr. Boythorn had told us was close by her. She was so very pretty that I might have known her by her beauty even if I had not seen how blushingly conscious she was of the eyes of the young fisherman, whom I discovered not far off. One face, and not an agreeable one, though it was handsome, seemed maliciously watchful of this pretty girl, and indeed of every one and everything there. It was a Frenchwoman’s.
会众人数极少，气氛十分质朴，除了一大群从家里来的仆人，其中一些人已经就座，另一些人还没有进来。有一些威严的男仆，还有一个完美的仆人。一张老马车夫的照片，他看起来就像是他的马车上所有浮华和虚荣的官方代表。一群年轻女子非常漂亮，在她们的上方，女管家那张英俊的老脸和精致负责、肥胖的身材显得格外突出。博伊索恩先生告诉我们的那个漂亮女孩就在她身边。她非常漂亮，即使我没有看到她对我在不远处发现的年轻渔夫的眼睛有多么敏感，我也可能通过她的美貌认识她。一张脸，虽然很英俊，但并不讨人喜欢，但似乎在恶意地注视着这个漂亮的女孩，事实上，也注视着那里的每一个人和每件事。这是一位法国女人的。

As the bell was yet ringing and the great people were not yet come, I had leisure to glance over the church, which smelt as earthy as a grave, and to think what a shady, ancient, solemn little church it was. The windows, heavily shaded by trees, admitted a subdued light that made the faces around me pale, and darkened the old brasses in the pavement and the time and damp-worn monuments, and rendered the sunshine in the little porch, where a monotonous ringer was working at the bell, inestimably bright. But a stir in that direction, a gathering of reverential awe in the rustic faces, and a blandly ferocious assumption on the part of Mr. Boythorn of being resolutely unconscious of somebody’s existence forewarned me that the great people were come and that the service was going to begin.
钟声尚未敲响，伟人尚未到来，我才有闲暇扫视这座散发着坟墓般泥土味的教堂，心想这是一座多么阴凉、古老、庄严的小教堂。窗户被树木浓荫遮蔽，透进了柔和的光线，使我周围的脸变得苍白，使人行道上的旧黄铜、时间和潮湿磨损的纪念碑变暗，使阳光照在小门廊上，那里发出单调的铃声。正在敲钟，明亮得不可估量。但那个方向的一阵骚动，乡村面孔上聚集着崇敬的敬畏，以及博伊索恩先生温和凶猛的假设，他完全没有意识到某人的存在，这些都预先警告我，伟大的人们已经来了，服务即将开始开始。

‘‘Enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord, for in thy sight—‘’
“主啊，不要审判你的仆人，因为在你看来——”

Shall I ever forget the rapid beating at my heart, occasioned by the look I met as I stood up! Shall I ever forget the manner in which those handsome proud eyes seemed to spring out of their languor and to hold mine! It was only a moment before I cast mine down—released again, if I may say so—on my book; but I knew the beautiful face quite well in that short space of time.
我是否会忘记我站起来时所看到的目光所引起的心脏的快速跳动！我是否会忘记那些英俊而骄傲的眼睛似乎从他们的倦怠中跳出来并注视着我的方式！只过了一会儿，我就把我的心放下了——如果我可以这么说的话，我又放下了——在我的书上；但在那短短的时间里，我对那张美丽的脸庞了如指掌。

And, very strangely, there was something quickened within me, associated with the lonely days at my godmother’s; yes, away even to the days when I had stood on tiptoe to dress myself at my little glass after dressing my doll. And this, although I had never seen this lady’s face before in all my life—I was quite sure of it— absolutely certain.
而且，非常奇怪的是，我内心有一种东西在活跃起来，这与在教母家的孤独日子有关。是的，甚至到了我给洋娃娃穿好衣服后踮起脚尖站在小玻璃杯前给自己穿衣服的日子。而这一点，尽管我一生中从未见过这位女士的脸——我很确定——绝对确定。

It was easy to know that the ceremonious, gouty, grey-haired gentleman, the only other occupant of the great pew, was Sir Leicester Dedlock, and that the lady was Lady Dedlock. But why her face should be, in a confused way, like a broken glass to me, in which I saw scraps of old remembrances, and why I should be so fluttered and troubled (for I was still) by having casually met her eyes, I could not think.
很容易就知道，那位彬彬有礼、患有痛风、头发灰白的绅士，长椅上唯一的另一个占有者，是莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，而那位女士是戴德洛克夫人。但为什么她的脸对我来说应该像一块破碎的玻璃，在其中我看到了旧记忆的碎片，为什么我会因不经意地与她的目光相遇而感到如此颤抖和困扰（因为我仍然静止），我无法思考。

I felt it to be an unmeaning weakness in me and tried to overcome it by attending to the words I heard. Then, very strangely, I seemed to hear them, not in the reader’s voice, but in the wellremembered voice of my godmother. This made me think, did Lady Dedlock’s face accidentally resemble my godmother’s? It might be that it did, a little; but the expression was so different, and the stern decision which had worn into my godmother’s face, like weather into rocks, was so completely wanting in the face before me that it could not be that resemblance which had struck me. Neither did I know the loftiness and haughtiness of Lady Dedlock’s face, at all, in any one. And yet I—I, little Esther Summerson, the child who lived a life apart and on whose birthday there was no rejoicing—seemed to arise before my own eyes, evoked out of the past by some power in this fashionable lady, whom I not only entertained no fancy that I had ever seen, but whom I perfectly well knew I had never seen until that hour.
我觉得这是我内心的一个无意义的弱点，并试图通过关注我听到的话语来克服它。然后，非常奇怪的是，我似乎听到了他们的声音，不是读者的声音，而是我记忆深刻的教母的声音。这让我想到，戴德洛克夫人的脸是不是一不小心就长成了我教母的脸了？也许确实有那么一点点；但表情是如此不同，而我教母脸上的严厉决定，就像天气磨蚀岩石一样，在我面前的脸上完全消失了，不可能是我所震惊的那种相似之处。我也不知道戴德洛克夫人的脸上有多么高傲和傲慢。然而我——我，小埃丝特·萨默森，这个过着分离生活的孩子，在她的生日那天没有任何欢乐——似乎出现在我自己的眼前，被这位时尚女士的某种力量从过去唤起，而我并不认识她。只是对我从未见过的人没有任何幻想，但我非常清楚，直到那时我才见过他。

It made me tremble so to be thrown into this unaccountable agitation that I was conscious of being distressed even by the observation of the French maid, though I knew she had been looking watchfully here, and there, and everywhere, from the moment of her coming into the church. By degrees, though very slowly, I at last overcame my strange emotion. After a long time, I looked towards Lady Dedlock again. It was while they were preparing to sing, before the sermon. She took no heed of me, and the beating at my heart was gone. Neither did it revive for more than a few moments when she once or twice afterwards glanced at Ada or at me through her glass.
陷入这种莫名其妙的焦躁之中，我浑身发抖，甚至连那位法国女仆的观察都让我感到痛苦，尽管我知道，从她到来的那一刻起，她就一直在警惕地到处张望。进入教堂。我终于慢慢地克服了自己奇怪的情绪，虽然速度很慢。良久之后，我再次看向戴德洛克女士。那是在布道之前，他们准备唱歌的时候。她没有理会我，我的心跳也消失了。当她事后一两次透过镜片瞥见艾达或我时，这种感觉也没有持续多久。

The service being concluded, Sir Leicester gave his arm with much taste and gallantry to Lady Dedlock—though he was obliged to walk by the help of a thick stick—and escorted her out of church to the pony carriage in which they had come. The servants then dispersed, and so did the congregation, whom Sir Leicester had contemplated all along (Mr. Skimpole said to Mr. Boythorn’s infinite delight) as if he were a considerable landed proprietor in heaven.
仪式结束后，莱斯特爵士以极富品味和殷勤的态度向戴德洛克夫人伸出了手臂——尽管他不得不拄着一根粗棍子走路——然后护送她走出教堂，走向他们来时乘坐的小马车。仆人们随后散去，会众也散去，莱斯特爵士一直把他视为（斯金波尔先生对博伊索恩先生无限喜悦的说法），仿佛他是天堂里的一位大地主。

‘He believes he is!’ said Mr. Boythorn. ‘He firmly believes it. So did his father, and his grandfather, and his great-grandfather!’
“他相信他是！”博伊索恩先生说。 ’他坚信这一点。他的父亲、祖父和曾祖父也是如此！

‘Do you know,’ pursued Mr. Skimpole very unexpectedly to Mr. Boythorn, ‘it’s agreeable to me to see a man of that sort.’
“你知道吗，”斯金波尔先生非常意外地对博伊索恩先生追问，“见到这样的人我很高兴。”

‘IS it!’ said Mr. Boytborn.
“是这样！”博伊特伯恩先生说。

‘Say that he wants to patronize me,’ pursued Mr. Skimpole. ‘Very well! I don’t object.’
“说他想光顾我，”斯金波尔先生继续说道。 '很好！我不反对。

‘I do,’ said Mr. Boythorn with great vigour.
“我愿意，”博伊索恩先生精力充沛地说。

‘Do you really?’ returned Mr. Skimpole in his easy light vein. ‘But that’s taking trouble, surely. And why should you take trouble? Here am I, content to receive things childishly as they fall out, and I never take trouble! I come down here, for instance, and I find a mighty potentate exacting homage. Very well! I say ‘Mighty potentate, here IS my homage! It’s easier to give it than to withhold it. Here it is. If you have anything of an agreeable nature to show me, I shall be happy to see it; if you have anything of an agreeable nature to give me, I shall be happy to accept it.’ Mighty potentate replies in effect, ‘This is a sensible fellow. I find him accord with my digestion and my bilious system. He doesn’t impose upon me the necessity of rolling myself up like a hedgehog with my points outward. I expand, I open, I turn my silver lining outward like Milton’s cloud, and it’s more agreeable to both of us.’ That’s my view of such things, speaking as a child!’
“真的吗？”斯金波尔先生轻松地回答道。 “但这肯定会带来麻烦。”你为什么要自找麻烦呢？我就这样，幼稚地接受掉下来的东西，我从不惹麻烦！例如，我来到这里，发现一位强大的君主正在严格致敬。很好！我说‘伟大的君主，这是我的敬意！给予比拒绝更容易。这里是。如果你有任何令人愉快的东西要给我看，我会很高兴看到；如果你有什么好东西给我，我会很乐意接受。”强大的君主实际上回答道：“这是一个明智的人。我发现他符合我的消化和胆汁系统。他并没有强迫我像刺猬一样把自己卷起来，把观点向外。我扩展，我开放，我像弥尔顿的云一样将我的一线希望向外展开，这对我们俩来说都更愉快。“这就是我对这些事情的看法，作为一个孩子来说！”

‘But suppose you went down somewhere else to-morrow,’ said Mr. Boythorn, ‘where there was the opposite of that fellow—or of this fellow. How then?’
“但是假设你明天去别的地方，”博伊索恩先生说，“那里有与那个人相反的人——或者这个人。”那么如何？'

‘How then?’ said Mr. Skimpole with an appearance of the utmost simplicity and candour. ‘Just the same then! I should say, ‘My esteemed Boythorn’—to make you the personification of our imaginary friend—‘my esteemed Boythorn, you object to the mighty potentate? Very good. So do I. I take it that my business in the social system is to be agreeable; I take it that everybody’s business in the social system is to be agreeable. It’s a system of harmony, in short. Therefore if you object, I object. Now, excellent Boythorn, let us go to dinner!’’
“那怎么办？”斯金波尔先生说道，表情极其简单和坦率。 ‘那就一样了！我应该说，‘我尊敬的博伊索恩’——让你成为我们想象中的朋友的化身——‘我尊敬的博伊索恩，你反对强大的君主吗？非常好。我也是。我认为我在社会体系中的职责就是和睦相处；我认为社会体系中每个人的职责就是要和睦相处。简而言之，这是一个和谐的系统。因此，如果你反对，我也反对。现在，优秀的博伊索恩，我们去吃晚饭吧！”

‘But excellent Boythorn might say,’ returned our host, swelling and growing very red, ‘I’ll be—‘
“但是优秀的博伊索恩可能会说，”我们的主人回答道，他的脸肿得通红，“我会——”

‘I understand,’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘Very likely he would.’
“我明白，”斯金波尔先生说。 “他很可能会的。”

‘—if I WILL go to dinner!’ cried Mr. Boythorn in a violent burst and stopping to strike his stick upon the ground. ‘And he would probably add, ‘Is there such a thing as principle, Mr. Harold Skimpole?’’
“——如果我愿意去吃晚饭就好了！”博伊索恩先生猛烈地喊道，并停下来用棍子敲打地面。 “他可能会补充说，‘哈罗德·斯基波尔先生，有原则这样的东西吗？’”

‘To which Harold Skimpole would reply, you know,’ he returned in his gayest manner and with his most ingenuous smile, ‘‘Upon my life I have not the least idea! I don’t know what it is you call by that name, or where it is, or who possesses it. If you possess it and find it comfortable, I am quite delighted and congratulate you heartily. But I know nothing about it, I assure you; for I am a mere child, and I lay no claim to it, and I don’t want it!’ So, you see, excellent Boythorn and I would go to dinner after all!’
“你知道，哈罗德·斯基波尔会回答这个问题，”他以最快乐的方式回答，带着最天真的微笑，“我对我的生活一无所知！”我不知道你叫它什么名字，也不知道它在哪里，也不知道它是谁拥有的。如果您拥有它并且觉得它很舒服，我会非常高兴并衷心祝贺您。但我向你保证，我对此一无所知；因为我只是个孩子，我没有权利要求它，我也不想要它！“所以，你看，优秀的博伊索恩和我终究会去吃晚饭！”

This was one of many little dialogues between them which I always expected to end, and which I dare say would have ended under other circumstances, in some violent explosion on the part of our host. But he had so high a sense of his hospitable and responsible position as our entertainer, and my guardian laughed so sincerely at and with Mr. Skimpole, as a child who blew bubbles and broke them all day long, that matters never went beyond this point. Mr. Skimpole, who always seemed quite unconscious of having been on delicate ground, then betook himself to beginning some sketch in the park which be never finished, or to playing fragments of airs on the piano, or to singing scraps of songs, or to lying down on his back under a tree and looking at the sky—which he couldn’t help thinking, he said, was what he was meant for; it suited him so exactly.
这是他们之间的许多小对话之一，我一直希望这些对话能够结束，而且我敢说，在其他情况下，在我们的东道主的一些猛烈爆炸中，这些对话也会结束。但他对自己作为我们的艺人的热情好客和负责任的地位有如此高的认识，而我的监护人对斯基姆波尔先生如此真诚地笑，并与他一起笑，就像一个整天吹泡泡并打破它们的孩子一样，事情从未超出这一点。斯金波尔先生似乎总是没有意识到自己身处微妙的境地，然后他开始在公园里开始一些从未完成的素描，或者在钢琴上弹奏一些片段，或者唱一些歌曲的片段，或者他仰面躺在树下，看着天空——他说，他不禁想，这就是他的使命；这非常适合他。

‘Enterprise and effort,’ he would say to us (on his back), are delightful to me. I believe I am truly cosmopolitan. I have the deepest sympathy with them. I lie in a shady place like this and think of adventurous spirits going to the North Pole or penetrating to the heart of the Torrid Zone with admiration. Mercenary creatures ask, ‘What is the use of a man’s going to the North Pole? What good does it do?’ I can’t say; but, for anything I CAN say, he may go for the purpose—though he don’t know it—of employing my thoughts as I lie here. Take an extreme case. Take the case of the slaves on American plantations. I dare say they are worked hard, I dare say they don’t altogether like it. I dare say theirs is an unpleasant experience on the whole; but they people the landscape for me, they give it a poetry for me, and perhaps that is one of the pleasanter objects of their existence. I am very sensible of it, if it be, and I shouldn’t wonder if it were!’
“进取心和努力，”他（背在背上）对我们说，这让我很高兴。我相信我是真正的世界主义者。我对他们表示最深切的同情。我躺在这样的阴凉处，怀着钦佩的心情想到前往北极或深入热带地区中心的冒险精神。佣兵们问：‘人去北极有什么用？它有什么好处？但是，无论我能说什么，他都可能是为了利用我躺在这里时的想法——尽管他自己并不知道。举一个极端的例子。以美国种植园里的奴隶为例。我敢说他们很努力，我敢说他们并不完全喜欢这样。我敢说他们的经历总的来说是一次不愉快的经历；但他们为我塑造了风景，为我赋予了诗意，也许这是他们存在中更令人愉快的目标之一。如果是的话，我对此非常敏感，而且我不应该怀疑它是否是这样！

I always wondered on these occasions whether he ever thought of Mrs. Skimpole and the children, and in what point of view they presented themselves to his cosmopolitan mind. So far as I could understand, they rarely presented themselves at all.
在这些场合，我总是想知道他是否想过斯金波尔夫人和孩子们，以及他们以什么观点呈现在他的国际视野中。据我所知，他们很少展示自己。

The week had gone round to the Saturday following that beating of my heart in the church; and every day had been so bright and blue that to ramble in the woods, and to see the light striking down among the transparent leaves and sparkling in the beautiful interlacings of the shadows of the trees, while the birds poured out their songs and the air was drowsy with the hum of insects, had been most delightful. We had one favourite spot, deep in moss and last year’s leaves, where there were some felled trees from which the bark was all stripped off. Seated among these, we looked through a green vista supported by thousands of natural columns, the whitened stems of trees, upon a distant prospect made so radiant by its contrast with the shade in which we sat and made so precious by the arched perspective through which we saw it that it was like a glimpse of the better land. Upon the Saturday we sat here, Mr. Jarndyce, Ada, and I, until we heard thunder muttering in the distance and felt the large raindrops rattle through the leaves.
在教堂里那次心跳之后，一周又到了星期六。每天都是如此明亮和蔚蓝，以至于可以在树林里漫步，看到阳光照在透明的树叶上，在树影的美丽交错中闪闪发光，而鸟儿则倾诉着它们的歌声和空气伴随着昆虫的嗡嗡声而昏昏欲睡，真是太令人愉快了。我们有一个最喜欢的地方，在苔藓和去年的树叶深处，那里有一些被砍倒的树，树皮都被剥掉了。坐在其中，我们透过数以千计的天然柱子和白色的树干支撑着绿色的远景，远处的景色与我们坐的树荫形成鲜明对比，显得如此光彩夺目，通过拱形的视角，景色变得如此珍贵。我们看到它就像瞥见了更美好的土地。星期六，我们、贾迪斯先生、艾达和我坐在这里，直到我们听到远处传来雷声，感觉到大雨滴穿过树叶发出嘎嘎声。

The weather had been all the week extremely sultry, but the storm broke so suddenly—upon us, at least, in that sheltered spot—that before we reached the outskirts of the wood the thunder and lightning were frequent and the rain came plunging through the leaves as if every drop were a great leaden bead. As it was not a time for standing among trees, we ran out of the wood, and up and down the moss-grown steps which crossed the plantation-fence like two broad-staved ladders placed back to back, and made for a keeper’s lodge which was close at hand. We had often noticed the dark beauty of this lodge standing in a deep twilight of trees, and how the ivy clustered over it, and how there was a steep hollow near, where we had once seen the keeper’s dog dive down into the fern as if it were water.
整个星期天气都非常闷热，但暴风雨来得太突然——至少在我们那个避风的地方——以至于在我们到达树林的郊区之前，雷电就频繁地袭来，大雨倾盆而下。叶子仿佛每一滴都是一颗巨大的铅珠。由于现在不适合站在树丛中，我们跑出了树林，在长满青苔的台阶上跑来跑去，这些台阶穿过种植园的栅栏，就像两架背靠背的宽梯子，通向看守人的小屋。就在眼前。我们经常注意到这座小屋矗立在树林深处的黑暗之美，常春藤如何聚集在它上面，以及附近如何有一个陡峭的洼地，我们曾经看到看门人的狗潜入蕨类植物中，仿佛那是水。

The lodge was so dark within, now the sky was overcast, that we only clearly saw the man who came to the door when we took shelter there and put two chairs for Ada and me. The lattice-windows were all thrown open, and we sat just within the doorway watching the storm. It was grand to see how the wind awoke, and bent the trees, and drove the rain before it like a cloud of smoke; and to hear the solemn thunder and to see the lightning; and while thinking with awe of the tremendous powers by which our little lives are encompassed, to consider how beneficent they are and how upon the smallest flower and leaf there was already a freshness poured from all this seeming rage which seemed to make creation new again.
小屋里很黑，现在天色阴沉，我们躲在那里，为我和艾达摆了两把椅子，才清楚地看到门口来的那个人。格子窗全部打开，我们就坐在门口观看暴风雨。看到风如何苏醒，吹弯了树木，驱散了前面的雨水，就像烟雾一样，真是太壮观了。听到庄严的雷声，看到闪电；当怀着敬畏之心思考我们小小的生命所蕴含的巨大力量时，想想它们是多么仁慈，以及如何在最小的花朵和叶子上已经从所有这些看似愤怒的事物中倾注出新鲜感，这似乎使造物再次焕然一新。

‘Is it not dangerous to sit in so exposed a place?’
“坐在这么暴露的地方难道不危险吗？”

‘Oh, no, Esther dear!’ said Ada quietly.
“哦，不，亲爱的艾丝特！”艾达轻声说道。

Ada said it to me, but I had not spoken.
艾达对我说过，但我没有说话。

The beating of my heart came back again. I had never heard the voice, as I had never seen the face, but it affected me in the same strange way. Again, in a moment, there arose before my mind innumerable pictures of myself.
我的心跳声又回来了。我从未听过那个声音，就像我从未见过那张脸一样，但它以同样奇怪的方式影响着我。刹那间，我的脑海中再次浮现出无数自己的画面。

Lady Dedlock had taken shelter in the lodge before our arrival there and had come out of the gloom within. She stood behind my chair with her hand upon it. I saw her with her hand close to my shoulder when I turned my head.
在我们到达之前，戴德洛克夫人已经在小屋里避难了，并从里面的阴暗中走了出来。她站在我的椅子后面，把手放在椅子上。当我转过头时，我看到她的手靠近我的肩膀。

‘I have frightened you?’ she said.
“我吓到你了吗？”她说。

No. It was not fright. Why should I be frightened!
不，这不是害怕。我为什么要害怕！

‘I believe,’ said Lady Dedlock to my guardian, ‘I have the pleasure of speaking to Mr. Jarndyce.’
“我相信，”戴德洛克夫人对我的监护人说，“我很高兴能与贾迪斯先生交谈。”

‘Your remembrance does me more honour than I had supposed it would, Lady Dedlock,’ he returned.
“戴德洛克女士，你的记忆给我带来的荣誉比我想象的还要多。”他回答道。

‘I recognized you in church on Sunday. I am sorry that any local disputes of Sir Leicester’s—they are not of his seeking, however, I believe—should render it a matter of some absurd difficulty to show you any attention here.’
“周日我在教堂里认出了你。我很抱歉，莱斯特爵士在当地的任何争议——然而，我相信这些争议并不是他所寻求的——应该会让你在这里引起任何关注变得有些荒谬的困难。

‘I am aware of the circumstances,’ returned my guardian with a smile, ‘and am sufficiently obliged.’
“我知道情况，”我的监护人微笑着回答，“我非常感激。”

She had given him her hand in an indifferent way that seemed habitual to her and spoke in a correspondingly indifferent manner, though in a very pleasant voice. She was as graceful as she was beautiful, perfectly self-possessed, and had the air, I thought, of being able to attract and interest any one if she had thought it worth her while. The keeper had brought her a chair on which she sat in the middle of the porch between us.
她以一种冷漠的方式向他伸出了手，这对她来说似乎是一种习惯，并且以一种相应的冷漠的方式说话，尽管声音非常好听。她既优雅又美丽，完全沉着，我想，她有一种能够吸引任何人的气质，只要她认为值得她花时间。看门人给她拿了一把椅子，她坐在我们之间的门廊中间。

‘Is the young gentleman disposed of whom you wrote to Sir Leicester about and whose wishes Sir Leicester was sorry not to have it in his power to advance in any way?’ she said over her shoulder to my guardian.
“你写信给莱斯特爵士提到的这位年轻绅士是否已经被处理掉了，莱斯特爵士很遗憾他的愿望不能以任何方式取得进展？”她转过头对我的监护人说道。

‘I hope so,’ said he.
“我希望如此，”他说。

She seemed to respect him and even to wish to conciliate him. There was something very winning in her haughty manner, and it became more familiar—I was going to say more easy, but that could hardly be—as she spoke to him over her shoulder.
她似乎很尊重他，甚至希望安抚他。她傲慢的态度中有一种非常吸引人的东西，当她回头对他说话时，这种态度变得更加熟悉——我想说更容易，但那几乎不可能。

‘I presume this is your other ward, Miss Clare?’
“我想这是你的另一个病房，克莱尔小姐？”

He presented Ada, in form.
他以形式呈现了艾达。

‘You will lose the disinterested part of your Don Quixote character,’ said Lady Dedlock to Mr. Jarndyce over her shoulder again, ‘if you only redress the wrongs of beauty like this. But present me,’ and she turned full upon me, ‘to this young lady too!’
“你就会失去堂吉诃德角色中无私的部分，”戴德洛克夫人再次回头对贾迪斯先生说道，“如果你只是像这样纠正美丽的错误。”但是请介绍我，”她转向我，“也介绍给这位年轻的女士！”

‘Miss Summerson really is my ward,’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘I am responsible to no Lord Chancellor in her case.’
“萨默森小姐确实是我的监护人，”贾迪斯先生说。 “在她的案件中，我不对大法官负责。”

‘Has Miss Summerson lost both her parents?’ said my Lady.
“萨默森小姐失去了双亲吗？”夫人问道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘She is very fortunate in her guardian.’
“她很幸运有她的监护人。”

Lady Dedlock looked at me, and I looked at her and said I was indeed. All at once she turned from me with a hasty air, almost expressive of displeasure or dislike, and spoke to him over her shoulder again.
戴德洛克夫人看着我，我也看着她说我确实是。突然，她神色急促地从我身边转过身来，几乎是在表达不满或厌恶，然后又回头对他说话。

‘Ages have passed since we were in the habit of meeting, Mr. Jarndyce.’
“自从我们习惯见面以来，已经过去很多年了，贾迪斯先生。”

‘A long time. At least I thought it was a long time, until I saw you last Sunday,’ he returned.
'很长时间。至少我觉得已经很久了，直到上周日见到你。”他回答道。

‘What! Even you are a courtier, or think it necessary to become one to me!’ she said with some disdain. ‘I have achieved that reputation, I suppose.’
'什么！即使你是朝臣，或者认为有必要成为我的朝臣！”她有些不屑地说道。 “我想我已经获得了这样的声誉。”

‘You have achieved so much, Lady Dedlock,’ said my guardian, ‘that you pay some little penalty, I dare say. But none to me.’
“你已经取得了如此大的成就，戴德洛克女士，”我的监护人说，“我敢说，你付出了一些小小的惩罚。但对我来说没有。

‘So much!’ she repeated, slightly laughing. ‘Yes!’
“这么多！”她重复道，微微笑着。 '是的！'

With her air of superiority, and power, and fascination, and I know not what, she seemed to regard Ada and me as little more than children. So, as she slightly laughed and afterwards sat looking at the rain, she was as self-possessed and as free to occupy herself with her own thoughts as if she had been alone.
她带着优越感、权力和魅力，我不知道是什么，她似乎把艾达和我当作孩子一样。所以，当她微微一笑，然后坐着看雨时，她泰然自若，自在地思考着自己的事情，就好像她是一个人一样。

‘I think you knew my sister when we were abroad together better than you know me?’ she said, looking at him again.
“我想，当我们一起出国时，你比我更了解我妹妹吧？”她再次看着他说道。

‘Yes, we happened to meet oftener,’ he returned.
“是的，我们碰巧见面比较频繁，”他回答道。

‘We went our several ways,’ said Lady Dedlock, ‘and had little in common even before we agreed to differ. It is to be regretted, I suppose, but it could not be helped.’
“我们各走各的路，”戴德洛克夫人说，“即使在我们同意不同之前，也没有什么共同点。我想这是令人遗憾的，但也是无可奈何的。

Lady Dedlock again sat looking at the rain. The storm soon began to pass upon its way. The shower greatly abated, the lightning ceased, the thunder rolled among the distant hills, and the sun began to glisten on the wet leaves and the falling rain. As we sat there, silently, we saw a little pony phaeton coming towards us at a merry pace.
戴德洛克夫人又坐在那里看着雨。暴风雨很快就开始袭来。阵雨大大减弱，闪电停止，雷声在远处的山间滚滚，阳光开始在湿漉漉的树叶和落下的雨中闪闪发光。当我们静静地坐在那里时，我们看到一辆小马驹快步朝我们驶来。

‘The messenger is coming back, my Lady,’ said the keeper, ‘with the carriage.’
“夫人，信使带着马车回来了，”看门人说道。

As it drove up, we saw that there were two people inside. There alighted from it, with some cloaks and wrappers, first the Frenchwoman whom I had seen in church, and secondly the pretty girl, the Frenchwoman with a defiant confidence, the pretty girl confused and hesitating.
车子开过来的时候，我们看到里面有两个人。从车上下来，带着一些斗篷和裹布，首先是我在教堂里见过的法国女人，其次是那个漂亮的女孩，那个法国女人带着挑衅的自信，那个漂亮的女孩困惑而犹豫。

‘What now?’ said Lady Dedlock. ‘Two!’
“现在怎么办？”德洛克夫人说。 '二！'

‘I am your maid, my Lady, at the present,’ said the Frenchwoman. ‘The message was for the attendant.’
“我的女士，现在我是您的女仆，”法国女人说道。 “这条信息是给服务员的。”

‘I was afraid you might mean me, my Lady,’ said the pretty girl.
“我担心您可能指的是我，我的女士，”漂亮的女孩说道。

‘I did mean you, child,’ replied her mistress calmly. ‘Put that shawl on me.’
“我说的是你，孩子。”她的女主人平静地回答道。 “把那条围巾披在我身上。”

She slightly stooped her shoulders to receive it, and the pretty girl lightly dropped it in its place. The Frenchwoman stood unnoticed, looking on with her lips very tightly set.
微微弯腰接过，漂亮少女轻轻将它放回原处。法国女人静静地站着，嘴唇紧闭，静静地看着。

‘I am sorry,’ said Lady Dedlock to Mr. Jarndyce, ‘that we are not likely to renew our former acquaintance. You will allow me to send the carriage back for your two wards. It shall be here directly.’
“很抱歉，”戴德洛克夫人对贾迪斯先生说，“我们不太可能再续前缘了。”你允许我把马车送回你们的两个病房。它应该直接在这里。

But as he would on no account accept this offer, she took a graceful leave of Ada—none of me—and put her hand upon his proffered arm, and got into the carriage, which was a little, low, park carriage with a hood.
但由于他无论如何都不会接受这个提议，所以她优雅地离开了艾达——不是我——然后把手搭在他伸出的手臂上，然后上了马车，那是一辆带引擎盖的小而低矮的公园马车。 。

‘Come in, child,’ she said to the pretty girl; ‘I shall want you. Go on!’
“进来吧，孩子，”她对漂亮女孩说。 ‘我会想要你。继续！'

The carriage rolled away, and the Frenchwoman, with the wrappers she had brought hanging over her arm, remained standing where she had alighted.
马车开走了，法国女人手臂上挂着她带来的包装纸，仍然站在她下车的地方。

I suppose there is nothing pride can so little bear with as pride itself, and that she was punished for her imperious manner. Her retaliation was the most singular I could have imagined. She remained perfectly still until the carriage had turned into the drive, and then, without the least discomposure of countenance, slipped off her shoes, left them on the ground, and walked deliberately in the same direction through the wettest of the wet grass.
我想没有什么比骄傲本身更能容忍骄傲了，而她却因为她专横的态度而受到了惩罚。她的报复是我能想象到的最奇特的。她一动不动，直到马车驶入车道，然后，脸上没有丝毫不安，脱下鞋子，把它们留在地上，故意沿着同一个方向穿过湿漉漉的草地。

‘Is that young woman mad?’ said my guardian.
“那个年轻女人疯了吗？”我的监护人问道。

‘Oh, no, sir!’ said the keeper, who, with his wife, was looking after her. ‘Hortense is not one of that sort. She has as good a head-piece as the best. But she’s mortal high and passionate— powerful high and passionate; and what with having notice to leave, and having others put above her, she don’t take kindly to it.’
“哦，不，先生！”守门员说道，他和他的妻子正在照顾她。 “霍滕斯不是那种人。她的头饰和最好的一样好。但她是凡人的高尚和热情——强大的高尚和热情；当她通知她离开，并让其他人凌驾于她之上时，她并不乐意。

‘But why should she walk shoeless through all that water?’ said my guardian.
“但是她为什么要光着鞋穿过那么多水呢？”我的监护人说。

‘Why, indeed, sir, unless it is to cool her down!’ said the man.
“确实是这样，先生，除非是为了让她冷静下来！”那人说道。

‘Or unless she fancies it’s blood,’ said the woman. ‘She’d as soon walk through that as anything else, I think, when her own’s up!’
“或者除非她认为那是血，”女人说。 “我想，当她自己的事情发生时，她会尽快经历这一切！”

We passed not far from the house a few minutes afterwards. Peaceful as it had looked when we first saw it, it looked even more so now, with a diamond spray glittering all about it, a light wind blowing, the birds no longer hushed but singing strongly, everything refreshed by the late rain, and the little carriage shining at the doorway like a fairy carriage made of silver. Still, very steadfastly and quietly walking towards it, a peaceful figure too in the landscape, went Mademoiselle Hortense, shoeless, through the wet grass.
几分钟后我们就经过了离房子不远的地方。初见时的宁静，现在更是如此，四周闪烁着钻石般的浪花，微风吹过，鸟儿不再安静，而是高声歌唱，一切都因晚雨而变得清新，小马车在门口闪闪发光，就像一辆银色的仙车。尽管如此，霍顿斯小姐赤着鞋，穿过湿漉漉的草地，坚定而安静地朝它走去，这也是风景中一个平静的身影。

CHAPTER XIX
第十九章


Moving On
继续

It is the long vacation in the regions of Chancery Lane. The good ships Law and Equity, those teak-built, copper-bottomed, ironfastened, brazen-faced, and not by any means fast-sailing clippers are laid up in ordinary. The Flying Dutchman, with a crew of ghostly clients imploring all whom they may encounter to peruse their papers, has drifted, for the time being, heaven knows where. The courts are all shut up; the public offices lie in a hot sleep. Westminster Hall itself is a shady solitude where nightingales might sing, and a tenderer class of suitors than is usually found there, walk.
现在是Chancery Lane地区的长假。好船“法律”号和“公平”号，那些柚木建造、铜底、铁系、黄铜面、绝不是快速航行的快船，都处于普通状态。飞翔的荷兰人号带着一群幽灵般的客户恳求所有可能遇到的人仔细阅读他们的文件，暂时已经漂流到了哪里，天知道在哪里。法庭全部关闭；公共办公室正在酣睡。威斯敏斯特大厅本身就是一处阴凉的僻静处，夜莺在这里歌唱，一群比通常在那里发现的更温柔的追求者在散步。

The Temple, Chancery Lane, Serjeants’ Inn, and Lincoln’s Inn even unto the Fields are like tidal harbours at low water, where stranded proceedings, offices at anchor, idle clerks lounging on lop-sided stools that will not recover their perpendicular until the current of Term sets in, lie high and dry upon the ooze of the long vacation. Outer doors of chambers are shut up by the score, messages and parcels are to be left at the Porter’s Lodge by the bushel. A crop of grass would grow in the chinks of the stone pavement outside Lincoln’s Inn Hall, but that the ticket-porters, who have nothing to do beyond sitting in the shade there, with their white aprons over their heads to keep the flies off, grub it up and eat it thoughtfully.
圣殿、大法官巷、军士酒馆和林肯酒馆，甚至一直到田野，都像低潮时的潮汐港，那里的程序搁浅，办公室抛锚，无所事事的职员懒洋洋地躺在倾斜的凳子上，直到水流完全恢复垂直。学期开始了，长假的泥浆上又高又干。房间的外门被门闩关闭，邮件和包裹必须按蒲式耳留在搬运工小屋。林肯旅馆大厅外石板路的缝隙里会长出一株草，但票务搬运工除了坐在阴凉处无事可做，头上还围着白色围裙，以防苍蝇，把它收拾起来，若有所思地吃掉。

There is only one judge in town. Even he only comes twice a week to sit in chambers. If the country folks of those assize towns on his circuit could see him now! No full-bottomed wig, no red petticoats, no fur, no javelin-men, no white wands. Merely a close-shaved gentleman in white trousers and a white hat, with seabronze on the judicial countenance, and a strip of bark peeled by the solar rays from the judicial nose, who calls in at the shellfish shop as he comes along and drinks iced ginger-beer!
镇上只有一名法官。甚至他每周也只来会议厅两次。如果他巡回演出的那些大小城镇的乡下人现在能看到他就好了！没有全底假发，没有红色衬裙，没有毛皮，没有标枪兵，没有白色魔杖。只不过是一位穿着白裤子、戴着白帽子、剃得光秃秃的绅士，法官的脸上有海古铜色，法官的鼻子上有一条被太阳光剥落的树皮，他一边过来一边在贝类店里拜访，喝着冰镇的饮料。姜汁啤酒！

The bar of England is scattered over the face of the earth. How England can get on through four long summer months without its bar —which is its acknowledged refuge in adversity and its only legitimate triumph in prosperity—is beside the question; assuredly that shield and buckler of Britannia are not in present wear. The learned gentleman who is always so tremendously indignant at the unprecedented outrage committed on the feelings of his client by the opposite party that he never seems likely to recover it is doing infinitely better than might be expected in Switzerland. The learned gentleman who does the withering business and who blights all opponents with his gloomy sarcasm is as merry as a grig at a French watering-place. The learned gentleman who weeps by the pint on the smallest provocation has not shed a tear these six weeks. The very learned gentleman who has cooled the natural heat of his gingery complexion in pools and fountains of law until he has become great in knotty arguments for term-time, when he poses the drowsy bench with legal ‘chaff,’ inexplicable to the uninitiated and to most of the initiated too, is roaming, with a characteristic delight in aridity and dust, about Constantinople. Other dispersed fragments of the same great palladium are to be found on the canals of Venice, at the second cataract of the Nile, in the baths of Germany, and sprinkled on the sea-sand all over the English coast. Scarcely one is to be encountered in the deserted region of Chancery Lane. If such a lonely member of the bar do flit across the waste and come upon a prowling suitor who is unable to leave off haunting the scenes of his anxiety, they frighten one another and retreat into opposite shades.
英格兰的酒吧遍布地球表面。英格兰如何在没有酒吧的情况下度过漫长的四个夏季月份——酒吧是英国在逆境中公认的避难所，也是其在繁荣时期唯一合法的胜利——这是一个问题。毫无疑问，不列颠尼亚的盾牌和圆盾目前并未佩戴。这位博学的绅士总是对对方对他的委托人的感情所犯下的前所未有的愤怒感到极其愤慨，以至于他似乎永远不可能恢复这种愤怒，但他在瑞士的表现比人们预期的要好得多。一位学识渊博的绅士，做着枯萎的生意，用阴郁的讽刺来折磨所有的对手，他的快乐就像法国水场里的一伙人一样。这位博学的绅士在最小的挑衅下就痛哭流涕，这六周以来他没有流过一滴眼泪。这位非常博学的绅士，在法律的池子和喷泉中冷却了他生姜般肤色的自然热量，直到他在学期时间的棘手争论中变得出色，当他在昏昏欲睡的长凳上摆出法律“谷壳”时，对于外行和外行来说是难以解释的。对于大多数入门者来说，这也是在君士坦丁堡周围漫游，带着对干旱和灰尘的特有的喜悦。在威尼斯的运河、尼罗河的第二瀑布、德国的浴场以及散布在英国海岸各地的海沙上，都可以找到同样伟大的钯金的其他分散碎片。在大法官巷的荒凉地区几乎看不到任何一只。如果酒吧里这样一个孤独的成员确实飞过荒野，遇到了一个徘徊的追求者，而他又无法摆脱焦虑的场景，他们就会互相吓到，并退回到相反的阴影中。

It is the hottest long vacation known for many years. All the young clerks are madly in love, and according to their various degrees, pine for bliss with the beloved object, at Margate, Ramsgate, or Gravesend. All the middle-aged clerks think their families too large. All the unowned dogs who stray into the Inns of Court and pant about staircases and other dry places seeking water give short howls of aggravation. All the blind men’s dogs in the streets draw their masters against pumps or trip them over buckets. A shop with a sun-blind, and a watered pavement, and a bowl of gold and silver fish in the window, is a sanctuary. Temple Bar gets so hot that it is, to the adjacent Strand and Fleet Street, what a heater is in an urn, and keeps them simmering all night.
这是多年来已知的最热长假。所有年轻的职员都疯狂地爱上了马盖特、拉姆斯盖特或格雷夫森德，根据他们的不同程度，渴望与心爱的对象幸福。所有的中年职员都认为他们的家庭太大了。所有误入法院旅馆的无主狗，在楼梯和其他干燥的地方气喘吁吁地寻找水源，都会发出短促的愤怒嚎叫。街上所有的盲人狗都把主人拖到水泵上，或者被水桶绊倒。一家有百叶窗、浇水的人行道、橱窗里摆着一碗金银鱼的商店，就是一个避难所。圣殿酒吧 (Temple Bar) 的天气非常炎热，与邻近的斯特兰德街 (Strand Street) 和舰队街 (Fleet Street) 相比，就像瓮中的加热器一样，让它们整晚都在沸腾。

There are offices about the Inns of Court in which a man might be cool, if any coolness were worth purchasing at such a price in dullness; but the little thoroughfares immediately outside those retirements seem to blaze. In Mr. Krook’s court, it is so hot that the people turn their houses inside out and sit in chairs upon the pavement—Mr. Krook included, who there pursues his studies, with his cat (who never is too hot) by his side. The Sol’s Arms has discontinued the Harmonic Meetings for the season, and Little Swills is engaged at the Pastoral Gardens down the river, where he comes out in quite an innocent manner and sings comic ditties of a juvenile complexion calculated (as the bill says) not to wound the feelings of the most fastidious mind.
法院附近有一些办公室，在那里，一个人可能很酷，如果有什么酷值得以如此沉闷的价格购买的话。但这些退休区外的小大道似乎正在燃烧。在克鲁克先生的宫廷里，天气太热了，人们把房子翻了个底朝天，坐在人行道上的椅子上——克鲁克先生。克鲁克也在其中，他在那里继续学业，他的猫（永远不会太热）在他身边。索尔之臂已经停止了本季的和声聚会，而小斯威尔斯正在河下游的田园花园订婚，在那里他以一种天真无邪的方式出现，唱着少年肤色的滑稽小调（正如法案所说）伤害最挑剔的心灵的感情。

Over all the legal neighbourhood there hangs, like some great veil of rust or gigantic cobweb, the idleness and pensiveness of the long vacation. Mr. Snagsby, law-stationer of Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street, is sensible of the influence not only in his mind as a sympathetic and contemplative man, but also in his business as a law-stationer aforesaid. He has more leisure for musing in Staple Inn and in the Rolls Yard during the long vacation than at other seasons, and he says to the two ‘prentices, what a thing it is in such hot weather to think that you live in an island with the sea a-rolling and a-bowling right round you.
在所有合法的社区里，都笼罩着长假的闲散和沉思，就像一层生锈的巨大面纱或巨大的蜘蛛网。斯纳格斯比先生是库西托街库克法院的法律文员，他作为一个富有同情心和沉思的人，不仅在他的思想中感受到了这种影响，而且在他作为上述法律文员的业务中也感受到了这种影响。长假期间，他在斯台普客栈和罗尔斯院子里比其他季节有更多的闲暇沉思，他对两个学徒说，在这么热的天气里，想到你住在一个岛上，有大海就在你周围翻滚、滚滚。

Guster is busy in the little drawing-room on this present afternoon in the long vacation, when Mr. and Mrs. Snagsby have it in contemplation to receive company. The expected guests are rather select than numerous, being Mr. and Mrs. Chadband and no more. From Mr. Chadband’s being much given to describe himself, both verbally and in writing, as a vessel, he is occasionally mistaken by strangers for a gentleman connected with navigation, but he is, as he expresses it, ‘in the ministry.’ Mr. Chadband is attached to no particular denomination and is considered by his persecutors to have nothing so very remarkable to say on the greatest of subjects as to render his volunteering, on his own account, at all incumbent on his conscience; but he has his followers, and Mrs. Snagsby is of the number. Mrs. Snagsby has but recently taken a passage upward by the vessel, Chadband; and her attention was attracted to that Bark A 1 when she was something flushed by the hot weather.
今天下午，在长假期间，古斯特在小客厅里忙碌着，斯纳格斯比先生和夫人正在考虑接待客人。预计的客人是经过精心挑选的，而不是众多，只有查德班德先生和夫人，仅此而已。查德班德先生经常在口头和书面上将自己描述为一艘船只，因此有时会被陌生人误认为是一位与航海有关的绅士，但正如他所说，他“在事奉中”。查德班德不属于任何特定教派，迫害他的人认为，他在最伟大的主题上没有什么值得说的，以至于使他为自己的志愿服务完全符合他的良心；但他也有自己的追随者，斯纳斯比夫人就是其中之一。斯纳格斯比夫人最近刚刚乘查德班号船向上航行；当她因天气炎热而脸红时，她的注意力就被那只树皮A 1吸引了。

‘My little woman,’ says Mr. Snagsby to the sparrows in Staple Inn, ‘likes to have her religion rather sharp, you see!’
“我的小女人，”斯纳斯比先生对斯台普客栈的麻雀说，“你看，她喜欢让她的宗教变得相当尖锐！”

So Guster, much impressed by regarding herself for the time as the handmaid of Chadband, whom she knows to be endowed with the gift of holding forth for four hours at a stretch, prepares the little drawing-room for tea. All the furniture is shaken and dusted, the portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Snagsby are touched up with a wet cloth, the best tea-service is set forth, and there is excellent provision made of dainty new bread, crusty twists, cool fresh butter, thin slices of ham, tongue, and German sausage, and delicate little rows of anchovies nestling in parsley, not to mention new-laid eggs, to be brought up warm in a napkin, and hot buttered toast. For Chadband is rather a consuming vessel—the persecutors say a gorging vessel—and can wield such weapons of the flesh as a knife and fork remarkably well.
因此，古斯特对自己当时作为查德班德的女仆印象深刻，她知道查德班德具有连续四个小时滔滔不绝的天赋，她准备在小客厅里喝茶。所有的家具都经过摇晃和除尘，斯纳斯比先生和夫人的肖像都用湿布擦拭过，提供了最好的茶具，还有精美的新面包、酥脆的面包、凉爽新鲜的美味佳肴。黄油、薄薄的火腿片、舌头和德国香肠，还有欧芹中精致的小排凤尾鱼，更不用说新产的鸡蛋，餐巾纸上温热，还有热黄油吐司。因为查德班德是一个消耗性的容器——迫害者说是一个狼吞虎咽的容器——并且可以非常熟练地使用刀叉等肉体武器。

Mr. Snagsby in his best coat, looking at all the preparations when they are completed and coughing his cough of deference behind his hand, says to Mrs. Snagsby, ‘At what time did you expect Mr. and Mrs. Chadband, my love?’
斯纳格斯比先生穿着他最好的外套，看着所有的准备工作都完成了，在手后面咳嗽一声表示敬意，对斯纳格斯比夫人说：“亲爱的，你什么时候在等查德班德先生和查德班德夫人？” '

‘At six,’ says Mrs. Snagsby.
“六点钟，”斯纳斯比太太说。

Mr. Snagsby observes in a mild and casual way that ‘it’s gone that.’
斯纳格斯比先生以一种温和而随意的方式评论道，“那已经过去了。”

‘Perhaps you’d like to begin without them,’ is Mrs. Snagsby’s reproachful remark.
“也许你想在没有它们的情况下开始，”斯纳斯比夫人责备地说。

Mr. Snagsby does look as if he would like it very much, but he says, with his cough of mildness, ‘No, my dear, no. I merely named the time.’
斯纳斯比先生看起来确实非常喜欢，但他轻咳一声说道：“不，亲爱的，不。”我只是说出了时间。

‘What’s time,’ says Mrs. Snagsby, ‘to eternity?’
“什么时候，”斯纳斯比夫人说，“到永恒？”

‘Very true, my dear,’ says Mr. Snagsby. ‘Only when a person lays in victuals for tea, a person does it with a view—perhaps—more to time. And when a time is named for having tea, it’s better to come up to it.’
“非常正确，亲爱的，”斯纳斯比先生说。 “只有当一个人准备茶点时，他才会带着一种观点——也许——更多的是时间。当指定喝茶的时间时，最好还是去喝茶。”

‘To come up to it!’ Mrs. Snagsby repeats with severity. ‘Up to it! As if Mr. Chadband was a fighter!’
“去完成它！”斯纳斯比夫人严厉地重复道。 ‘就这样吧！就好像查德班德先生是一名战士一样！

‘Not at all, my dear,’ says Mr. Snagsby.
“一点也不，亲爱的，”斯纳斯比先生说。

Here, Guster, who had been looking out of the bedroom window, comes rustling and scratching down the little staircase like a popular ghost, and falling flushed into the drawing-room, announces that Mr. and Mrs. Chadband have appeared in the court. The bell at the inner door in the passage immediately thereafter tinkling, she is admonished by Mrs. Snagsby, on pain of instant reconsignment to her patron saint, not to omit the ceremony of announcement. Much discomposed in her nerves (which were previously in the best order) by this threat, she so fearfully mutilates that point of state as to announce ‘Mr. and Mrs. Cheeseming, least which, Imeantersay, whatsername!’ and retires conscience-stricken from the presence.
在这里，一直在卧室窗户往外看的古斯特像一个受欢迎的鬼魂一样沙沙作响，抓着小楼梯走下来，满脸通红地跌进客厅，宣布查德班德夫妇已经出现在法庭上。通道内门的钟声随即响起，斯纳斯比夫人警告她不要忽略宣布仪式，否则将立即重新托付给她的守护神。这种威胁使她的神经（以前处于最佳状态）非常不安，她如此恐惧地破坏了这一点，以至于宣布“先生”。 “还有奇斯明太太，至少是那个，我是说，叫什么名字！”然后良心不安地从现场退了出去。

Mr. Chadband is a large yellow man with a fat smile and a general appearance of having a good deal of train oil in his system. Mrs. Chadband is a stern, severe-looking, silent woman. Mr. Chadband moves softly and cumbrously, not unlike a bear who has been taught to walk upright. He is very much embarrassed about the arms, as if they were inconvenient to him and he wanted to grovel, is very much in a perspiration about the head, and never speaks without first putting up his great hand, as delivering a token to his hearers that he is going to edify them.
查德班德先生是个身材高大的黄种人，笑容满面，看上去体内有大量火车油。查德班德夫人是一位严肃、严肃、沉默寡言的女人。查德班德的动作轻柔而笨重，就像一只被训练直立行走的熊。他对手臂感到非常尴尬，好像它们对他来说不方便，他想卑躬屈膝，头上冒汗，说话之前总是先举起他的大手，就像向听众传递令牌一样他要启发他们。

‘My friends,’ says Mr. Chadband, ‘peace be on this house! On the master thereof, on the mistress thereof, on the young maidens, and on the young men! My friends, why do I wish for peace? What is peace? Is it war? No. Is it strife? No. Is it lovely, and gentle, and beautiful, and pleasant, and serene, and joyful? Oh, yes! Therefore, my friends, I wish for peace, upon you and upon yours.’
“我的朋友们，”查德班德先生说，“愿这座房子平安！”在其主人身上，在其情妇身上，在少女身上，在少年男子身上！朋友们，我为什么祈求和平呢？什么是和平？是战争吗？不，是冲突吗？不，它是可爱的、温柔的、美丽的、愉快的、宁静的、快乐的吗？哦是的！因此，我的朋友们，我祝愿你们和你们的家人平安。”

In consequence of Mrs. Snagsby looking deeply edified, Mr. Snagsby thinks it expedient on the whole to say amen, which is well received.
由于斯纳格斯比夫人看起来深受启发，斯纳格斯比先生认为总的来说说“阿门”是有利的，这受到了好评。

‘Now, my friends,’ proceeds Mr. Chadband, ‘since I am upon this theme—‘
“现在，我的朋友们，”查德班德先生继续说道，“既然我要讨论这个主题——”

Guster presents herself. Mrs. Snagsby, in a spectral bass voice and without removing her eyes from Chadband, says with dreadful distinctness, ‘Go away!’
古斯特现身。斯纳斯比夫人用一种幽灵般的低音声音，眼睛始终没有离开查德班德，清晰得可怕地说：“走开！”

‘Now, my friends,’ says Chadband, ‘since I am upon this theme, and in my lowly path improving it—‘
“现在，我的朋友们，”查德班德说，“既然我正在研究这个主题，并且在我卑微的道路上改进它——”

Guster is heard unaccountably to murmur ‘one thousing seven hundred and eighty-two.’ The spectral voice repeats more solemnly, ‘Go away!’
古斯特莫名其妙地低声说道：“一千七百八十二。”幽灵般的声音更加严肃地重复道：“走开！”

‘Now, my friends,’ says Mr. Chadband, ‘we will inquire in a spirit of love—‘
“现在，我的朋友们，”查德班德先生说，“我们将本着爱的精神询问——”

Still Guster reiterates ‘one thousing seven hundred and eightytwo.’
古斯特仍然重申“一千七百八十二”。

Mr. Chadband, pausing with the resignation of a man accustomed to be persecuted and languidly folding up his chin into his fat smile, says, ‘Let us hear the maiden! Speak, maiden!’
查德班德先生停顿了一下，表现出一个习惯于受迫害的人的无奈，懒洋洋地抬起下巴，露出肥胖的笑容，说道：“让我们听听这位少女的声音！”说吧，少女！”

‘One thousing seven hundred and eighty-two, if you please, sir. Which he wish to know what the shilling ware for,’ says Guster, breathless.
“一千七百八十二，如果您愿意的话，先生。他想知道这些先令是做什么用的，”古斯特气喘吁吁地说。

‘For?’ returns Mrs. Chadband. ‘For his fare!’
“为了？”查德班德夫人回答道。 “为了他的车费！”

Guster replied that ‘he insistes on one and eightpence or on summonsizzing the party.’ Mrs. Snagsby and Mrs. Chadband are proceeding to grow shrill in indignation when Mr. Chadband quiets the tumult by lifting up his hand.
古斯特回答说，“他坚持要一先令八便士，或者要召集聚会。”当查德班德先生举起手来平息骚乱时，斯纳格斯比夫人和查德班德夫人的愤怒开始变得尖锐起来。

‘My friends,’ says he, ‘I remember a duty unfulfilled yesterday. It is right that I should be chastened in some penalty. I ought not to murmur. Rachael, pay the eightpence!’
“我的朋友们，”他说，“我记得昨天有一项任务没有完成。我应该受到一些惩罚，这是正确的。我不应该发怨言。瑞秋，付八便士！”

While Mrs. Snagsby, drawing her breath, looks hard at Mr. Snagsby, as who should say, ‘You hear this apostle!’ and while Mr. Chadband glows with humility and train oil, Mrs. Chadband pays the money. It is Mr. Chadband’s habit—it is the head and front of his pretensions indeed—to keep this sort of debtor and creditor account in the smallest items and to post it publicly on the most trivial occasions.
斯纳格斯比夫人屏住呼吸，狠狠地看着斯纳格斯比先生，谁该说：“你听到这位使徒的声音了！”查德班德先生脸上洋溢着谦卑和火车油，而查德班德夫人却付了钱。查德班德先生的习惯——这确实是他的自命不凡的核心——把这种债务人和债权人的账目记在最小的项目中，并在最琐碎的场合公开发布。

‘My friends,’ says Chadband, ‘eightpence is not much; it might justly have been one and fourpence; it might justly have been half a crown. O let us be joyful, joyful! O let us be joyful!’
“我的朋友们，”查德班德说，“八便士并不算多；”应该是一又四便士；可能是半克朗。噢，让我们喜乐、喜乐！噢，让我们快乐吧！

With which remark, which appears from its sound to be an extract in verse, Mr. Chadband stalks to the table, and before taking a chair, lifts up his admonitory hand.
查德班德先生说完这句话，听起来像是一首诗的摘录，他大步走向桌边，在坐下来之前，举起了他警告性的手。

‘My friends,’ says he, ‘what is this which we now behold as being spread before us? Refreshment. Do we need refreshment then, my friends? We do. And why do we need refreshment, my friends? Because we are but mortal, because we are but sinful, because we are but of the earth, because we are not of the air. Can we fly, my friends? We cannot. Why can we not fly, my friends?’
“我的朋友们，”他说道，“我们现在所看到的展现在我们面前的是什么？茶点。那么我们需要茶点吗，我的朋友们？我们的确是。我的朋友们，为什么我们需要茶点呢？因为我们只是凡人，因为我们只是有罪的，因为我们只是地球的，因为我们不属于空气。朋友们，我们可以飞吗？我们不可以。为什么我们不能飞，我的朋友们？

Mr. Snagsby, presuming on the success of his last point, ventures to observe in a cheerful and rather knowing tone, ‘No wings.’ But is immediately frowned down by Mrs. Snagsby.
斯纳斯比先生认为他的最后一点成功了，冒险用一种愉快且相当会意的语气观察道：“没有翅膀。”但立即被斯纳斯比太太皱起眉头。

‘I say, my friends,’ pursues Mr. Chadband, utterly rejecting and obliterating Mr. Snagsby’s suggestion, ‘why can we not fly? Is it because we are calculated to walk? It is. Could we walk, my friends, without strength? We could not. What should we do without strength, my friends? Our legs would refuse to bear us, our knees would double up, our ankles would turn over, and we should come to the ground. Then from whence, my friends, in a human point of view, do we derive the strength that is necessary to our limbs? Is it,’ says Chadband, glancing over the table, ‘from bread in various forms, from butter which is churned from the milk which is yielded unto us by the cow, from the eggs which are laid by the fowl, from ham, from tongue, from sausage, and from such like? It is. Then let us partake of the good things which are set before us!’
“我说，我的朋友们，”查德班德先生继续说道，完全拒绝并抹去了斯纳格斯比先生的建议，“为什么我们不能飞？是因为我们注定要走路吗？这是。我的朋友们，我们能在没有力气的情况下行走吗？我们不能。朋友们，没有力气怎么办？我们的双腿将无法支撑我们，我们的膝盖将弯起，我们的脚踝将翻转，我们应该落地。那么朋友们，从人的角度来看，我们的四肢所必需的力量是从哪里获得的呢？是不是，”查德班德扫了一眼桌子，说道，“是各种形式的面包，是用奶牛为我们生产的牛奶搅拌而成的黄油，是家禽下的蛋，是火腿，还是舌头，香肠，还有类似的东西？这是。那么让我们分享摆在我们面前的美好事物吧！

The persecutors denied that there was any particular gift in Mr. Chadband’s piling verbose flights of stairs, one upon another, after this fashion. But this can only be received as a proof of their determination to persecute, since it must be within everybody’s experience that the Chadband style of oratory is widely received and much admired.
迫害者否认查德班德先生以这种方式一层一层地堆积冗长的楼梯有任何特殊的天赋。但这只能被视为他们迫害决心的证据，因为查德班风格的演讲受到广泛接受和钦佩，这一定是每个人的经历。

Mr. Chadband, however, having concluded for the present, sits down at Mr. Snagsby’s table and lays about him prodigiously. The conversion of nutriment of any sort into oil of the quality already mentioned appears to be a process so inseparable from the constitution of this exemplary vessel that in beginning to eat and drink, he may be described as always becoming a kind of considerable oil mills or other large factory for the production of that article on a wholesale scale. On the present evening of the long vacation, in Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street, he does such a powerful stroke of business that the warehouse appears to be quite full when the works cease.
然而，查德班德先生暂时结束了谈话，他在斯纳格斯比先生的桌子旁坐下，在他身边躺了下来。将任何种类的营养物转化为已经提到的质量的油似乎是一个与这个示例性容器的构造密不可分的过程，以至于在开始吃喝时，他可以被描述为总是成为一种相当大的油磨坊或其他大规模生产该物品的大型工厂。长假的今天晚上，在库西托街的库克庭院里，他做了一件大事，以至于工作结束时仓库似乎已经满了。

At this period of the entertainment, Guster, who has never recovered her first failure, but has neglected no possible or impossible means of bringing the establishment and herself into contempt—among which may be briefly enumerated her unexpectedly performing clashing military music on Mr. Chadband’s head with plates, and afterwards crowning that gentleman with muffins—at which period of the entertainment, Guster whispers Mr. Snagsby that he is wanted.
在这个娱乐节目中，古斯特虽然还没有恢复第一次的失败，但她却忽略了任何可能或不可能的手段来蔑视当权者和她自己——其中可以简单地列举一下她在查德班德先生的舞台上出人意料地演奏了冲突的军乐。头顶着盘子，然后用松饼为这位绅士加冕——在娱乐活动的这个时候，古斯特低声对斯纳斯比先生说他被通缉了。

‘And being wanted in the—not to put too fine a point upon it—in the shop,’ says Mr. Snagsby, rising, ‘perhaps this good company will excuse me for half a minute.’
“在店里——不要说得太过分——在店里被通缉，”斯纳格斯比先生站起来说道，“也许这家好公司会原谅我半分钟。”

Mr. Snagsby descends and finds the two ‘prentices intently contemplating a police constable, who holds a ragged boy by the arm.
斯纳格斯比先生下楼，发现两个“学徒”正专注地注视着一名警员，警员挽着一名衣衫褴褛的男孩的手臂。

‘Why, bless my heart,’ says Mr. Snagsby, ‘what’s the matter!’
“哎呀，上帝保佑我的心，”斯纳斯比先生说，“这是怎么回事！”

‘This boy,’ says the constable, ‘although he’s repeatedly told to, won’t move on—‘
“这个男孩，”警官说，“尽管他一再被告知，但他不会继续前进——”

‘I’m always a-moving on, sar, cries the boy, wiping away his grimy tears with his arm. ‘I’ve always been a-moving and a-moving on, ever since I was born. Where can I possibly move to, sir, more nor I do move!’
“我一直在前进，萨尔，”男孩喊道，并用手臂擦去了肮脏的泪水。 “自从我出生以来，我一直在不断前进。我能搬到哪里去，先生，更何况我也不搬家！

‘He won’t move on,’ says the constable calmly, with a slight professional hitch of his neck involving its better settlement in his stiff stock, ‘although he has been repeatedly cautioned, and therefore I am obliged to take him into custody. He’s as obstinate a young gonoph as I know. He WON’T move on.’
“他不会继续前进，”警察平静地说，他的脖子上有轻微的职业障碍，这使得他僵硬的股票更好地固定，“尽管他已经被反复警告过，因此我不得不拘留他。据我所知，他是个固执的年轻地精。他不会继续前进。

‘Oh, my eye! Where can I move to!’ cries the boy, clutching quite desperately at his hair and beating his bare feet upon the floor of Mr. Snagsby’s passage.
‘哦，我的眼睛！ “我能搬到哪里去！”男孩喊道，拼命地抓着自己的头发，光着脚在斯纳斯比先生过道的地板上敲打。

‘Don’t you come none of that or I shall make blessed short work of you!’ says the constable, giving him a passionless shake. ‘My instructions are that you are to move on. I have told you so five hundred times.’
“你别来，否则我很快就会干掉你！”警察说道，冷漠地摇了摇他。 “我的指示是你要继续前进。我已经告诉过你五百次了。

‘But where?’ cries the boy.
“但是去哪儿呢？”男孩喊道。

‘Well! Really, constable, you know,’ says Mr. Snagsby wistfully, and coughing behind his hand his cough of great perplexity and doubt, ‘really, that does seem a question. Where, you know?’
'出色地！真的，警官，你知道，”斯纳格斯比先生若有所思地说，他在手后咳嗽了一声，带着极大的困惑和怀疑，“真的，这确实是一个问题。哪里，你知道吗？

‘My instructions don’t go to that,’ replies the constable. ‘My instructions are that this boy is to move on.’
“我的指示不是这样的，”警官回答道。 “我的指示是这个男孩要继续前进。”

Do you hear, Jo? It is nothing to you or to any one else that the great lights of the parliamentary sky have failed for some few years in this business to set you the example of moving on. The one grand recipe remains for you—the profound philosophical prescription—the be-all and the end-all of your strange existence upon earth. Move on! You are by no means to move off, Jo, for the great lights can’t at all agree about that. Move on!
你听到了吗，乔？几年来，议会天空中的伟大光芒未能为您树立继续前进的榜样，这对您或任何其他人来说都没什么关系。为你留下了一个伟大的秘诀——深刻的哲学处方——你在地球上奇怪的存在的全部和最终目的。继续前行！乔，你决不能离开，因为伟大的光明根本无法同意这一点。继续前行！

Mr. Snagsby says nothing to this effect, says nothing at all indeed, but coughs his forlornest cough, expressive of no thoroughfare in any direction. By this time Mr. and Mrs. Chadband and Mrs. Snagsby, hearing the altercation, have appeared upon the stairs. Guster having never left the end of the passage, the whole household are assembled.
斯纳斯比先生对此什么也没说，实际上什么也没说，只是咳嗽了一声，表示没有任何方向的通行。这时，查德班德夫妇和斯纳斯比夫人听到争吵声，已经出现在楼梯上。古斯特从未离开过通道的尽头，全家人都聚集在一起。

‘The simple question is, sir,’ says the constable, ‘whether you know this boy. He says you do.’
“简单的问题是，先生，”警察说，“你是否认识这个男孩。”他说你愿意。

Mrs. Snagsby, from her elevation, instantly cries out, ‘No he don’t!’
斯纳斯比夫人站在高处，立即喊道：“不，他不知道！”

‘My lit-tle woman!’ says Mr. Snagsby, looking up the staircase. ‘My love, permit me! Pray have a moment’s patience, my dear. I do know something of this lad, and in what I know of him, I can’t say that there’s any harm; perhaps on the contrary, constable.’ To whom the law-stationer relates his Joful and woful experience, suppressing the half-crown fact.
“我的小女人！”斯纳斯比先生看着楼梯说道。 ‘我的爱人，请允许我！请耐心等待，亲爱的。我确实对这个小伙子有所了解，就我对他的了解而言，我不能说这有什么坏处；也许恰恰相反，警察。”执法人员向他讲述了他快乐和悲惨的经历，隐瞒了半克朗的事实。

‘Well!’ says the constable, ‘so far, it seems, he had grounds for what he said. When I took him into custody up in Holborn, he said you knew him. Upon that, a young man who was in the crowd said he was acquainted with you, and you were a respectable housekeeper, and if I’d call and make the inquiry, he’d appear. The young man don’t seem inclined to keep his word, but— Oh! Here IS the young man!’
“好吧！”警察说道，“到目前为止，他所说的似乎都是有根据的。”当我在霍尔本拘留他时，他说你认识他。这时，人群中的一个年轻人说他认识你，你是一位令人尊敬的管家，如果我打电话询问，他就会出现。年轻人似乎不太愿意遵守诺言，但是——哦！这就是年轻人！

Enter Mr. Guppy, who nods to Mr. Snagsby and touches his hat with the chivalry of clerkship to the ladies on the stairs.
古皮先生上场，他向斯纳斯比先生点点头，并以职员的骑士精神向楼梯上的女士们碰了碰帽子。

‘I was strolling away from the office just now when I found this row going on,’ says Mr. Guppy to the law-stationer, ‘and as your name was mentioned, I thought it was right the thing should be looked into.’
“我刚刚走出办公室时，发现了这场争吵，”古皮先生对法律文员说，“当提到你的名字时，我认为应该对此事进行调查。”

‘It was very good-natured of you, sir,’ says Mr. Snagsby, ‘and I am obliged to you.’ And Mr. Snagsby again relates his experience, again suppressing the half-crown fact.
“您真是太好了，先生，”斯纳斯比先生说，“我很感激你。”斯纳斯比先生再次讲述了他的经历，再次隐瞒了半克朗的事实。

‘Now, I know where you live,’ says the constable, then, to Jo. ‘You live down in Tom-all-Alone’s. That’s a nice innocent place to live in, ain’t it?’
“现在，我知道你住在哪里了，”警察对乔说道。 “你住在汤姆孤儿家里。”那是一个美好而纯真的居住之地，不是吗？

‘I can’t go and live in no nicer place, sir,’ replies Jo. ‘They wouldn’t have nothink to say to me if I wos to go to a nice innocent place fur to live. Who ud go and let a nice innocent lodging to such a reg’lar one as me!’
“我不能去住在更好的地方了，先生，”乔回答道。 “如果我不想去一个美好而纯净的地方居住，他们不会想都不想告诉我。谁会去给我这样一个正经的人租一间漂亮的、无辜的住处呢！

‘You are very poor, ain’t you?’ says the constable.
“你很穷，不是吗？”警察说。

‘Yes, I am indeed, sir, wery poor in gin’ral,’ replies Jo. ‘I leave you to judge now! I shook these two half-crowns out of him,’ says the constable, producing them to the company, ‘in only putting my hand upon him!’
“是的，先生，我确实很穷金拉尔，”乔回答道。 ‘我现在就让你来判断吧！ “我从他身上甩掉了这两枚半克朗，”警官边说边把它们交给连队，“只是把手放在了他身上！”

‘They’re wot’s left, Mr. Snagsby,’ says Jo, ‘out of a sov-ring as wos give me by a lady in a wale as sed she wos a servant and as come to my crossin one night and asked to be showd this ‘ere ouse and the ouse wot him as you giv the writin to died at, and the berrin-ground wot he’s berrid in. She ses to me she ses ‘are you the boy at the inkwhich?’ she ses. I ses ‘yes’ I ses. She ses to me she ses ‘can you show me all them places?’ I ses ‘yes I can’ I ses. And she ses to me ‘do it’ and I dun it and she giv me a sov’ring and hooked it. And I an’t had much of the sov’ring neither,’ says Jo, with dirty tears, ‘fur I had to pay five bob, down in Tom-all-Alone’s, afore they’d square it fur to give me change, and then a young man he thieved another five while I was asleep and another boy he thieved ninepence and the landlord he stood drains round with a lot more on it.’
“斯纳格斯比先生，”乔说，“它们是一位威尔士女士送给我的戒指，她是一名仆人，有一天晚上来到我的十字路口，要求成为我的仆人。”向我展示了这一点，当你给他写下死亡的文字时，他的命运和他所陷入的柏林地面。她对我说，她是“你是那个墨水的男孩吗？”她说。我是‘是’我是。她对我说，“你能带我看看所有这些地方吗？”我对我说，“是的，我可以”。她对我说“做吧”，我催了款，她给了我一个索夫环并把它钩住了。我也没有太多的钱，”乔含着肮脏的泪水说，“但我得在汤姆孤身一人的店里付五个鲍勃，然后他们才会平价给我零钱。 ，然后他趁我睡着的时候又偷了一个年轻人五便士，又偷了另一个男孩九便士，他所在的房东在下水道周围还有更多东西。

‘You don’t expect anybody to believe this, about the lady and the sovereign, do you?’ says the constable, eyeing him aside with ineffable disdain.
“你不会指望有人会相信这位女士和君主的事吧？”警察说道，用难以形容的蔑视看着他。

‘I don’t know as I do, sir,’ replies Jo. ‘I don’t expect nothink at all, sir, much, but that’s the true hist’ry on it.’
“我不知道，先生，”乔回答道。 “先生，我根本没想到会发生什么，但这就是真实的历史。”

‘You see what he is!’ the constable observes to the audience. ‘Well, Mr. Snagsby, if I don’t lock him up this time, will you engage for his moving on?’
“你看他是什么人！”警员对观众说道。 “好吧，斯纳斯比先生，如果我这次不把他关起来，你会同意让他继续前进吗？”

‘No!’ cries Mrs. Snagsby from the stairs.
“不！”斯纳斯比夫人在楼梯上喊道。

‘My little woman!’ pleads her husband. ‘Constable, I have no doubt he’ll move on. You know you really must do it,’ says Mr. Snagsby.
“我的小女人！”她的丈夫恳求道。 “警员，我毫不怀疑他会继续前进。你知道你真的必须这样做，”斯纳斯比先生说。

‘I’m everyways agreeable, sir,’ says the hapless Jo.
“我总是很随和，先生，”倒霉的乔说道。

‘Do it, then,’ observes the constable. ‘You know what you have got to do. Do it! And recollect you won’t get off so easy next time. Catch hold of your money. Now, the sooner you’re five mile off, the better for all parties.’
“那就这么做吧，”警官说道。 ‘你知道你必须做什么。做吧！记住，下次你不会那么容易脱身了。抓住你的钱。现在，越早离开五英里，对各方都越好。

With this farewell hint and pointing generally to the setting sun as a likely place to move on to, the constable bids his auditors good afternoon and makes the echoes of Cook’s Court perform slow music for him as he walks away on the shady side, carrying his iron-bound hat in his hand for a little ventilation.
有了这个告别的暗示，并普遍指出夕阳下是一个可能继续前进的地方，警官向他的审计员道了下午好，并让库克法庭的回声为他演奏了缓慢的音乐，同时他背着他的书从阴凉的一边走开。手里拿着一顶铁帽子，稍微通风一下。

Now, Jo’s improbable story concerning the lady and the sovereign has awakened more or less the curiosity of all the company. Mr. Guppy, who has an inquiring mind in matters of evidence and who has been suffering severely from the lassitude of the long vacation, takes that interest in the case that he enters on a regular crossexamination of the witness, which is found so interesting by the ladies that Mrs. Snagsby politely invites him to step upstairs and drink a cup of tea, if he will excuse the disarranged state of the tea-table, consequent on their previous exertions. Mr. Guppy yielding his assent to this proposal, Jo is requested to follow into the drawing-room doorway, where Mr. Guppy takes him in hand as a witness, patting him into this shape, that shape, and the other shape like a butterman dealing with so much butter, and worrying him according to the best models. Nor is the examination unlike many such model displays, both in respect of its eliciting nothing and of its being lengthy, for Mr. Guppy is sensible of his talent, and Mrs. Snagsby feels not only that it gratifies her inquisitive disposition, but that it lifts her husband’s establishment higher up in the law. During the progress of this keen encounter, the vessel Chadband, being merely engaged in the oil trade, gets aground and waits to be floated off.
现在，乔讲述的贵妇与君主的匪夷所思的故事，或多或少地引起了所有人的好奇心。古比先生对证据问题有着好奇心，而且由于长假的倦怠而深受其害，他对案件产生了兴趣，因此他定期对证人进行盘问，这让他觉得很有趣。各位女士，斯纳斯比夫人礼貌地邀请他上楼喝杯茶，如果他能原谅她们之前劳累造成的茶桌凌乱的话。孔雀先生同意了这个提议，乔被要求跟着走进客厅门口，孔雀先生把他拉在手上作为见证人，把他拍成这个形状、那个形状、另一个形状，就像黄油小人一样处理这么多黄油，并根据最好的模型让他担心。这场考试也不像许多这样的模型展示，无论是在它没有引出什么内容还是在冗长方面，因为古皮先生对他的才华很敏感，斯纳斯比夫人觉得这不仅满足了她好奇的性格，而且在法律上提升了她丈夫的地位。在这次激烈的交锋过程中，仅从事石油贸易的查德邦号船搁浅并等待浮离。

‘Well!’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘Either this boy sticks to it like cobbler’s-wax or there is something out of the common here that beats anything that ever came into my way at Kenge and Carboy’s.’
“好吧！”古比先生说。 “要么是这个男孩像鞋匠的蜡一样坚持下去，要么是这里有一些不寻常的东西，打败了我在肯格和卡博伊店遇到的任何东西。”

Mrs. Chadband whispers Mrs. Snagsby, who exclaims, ‘You don’t say so!’
查德班德夫人低声对斯纳格斯比夫人耳语，斯纳格斯比夫人惊呼道：“你不是这么说的！”

‘For years!’ replied Mrs. Chadband.
“很多年了！”查德班德夫人回答道。

‘Has known Kenge and Carboy’s office for years,’ Mrs. Snagsby triumphantly explains to Mr. Guppy. ‘Mrs. Chadband—this gentleman’s wife—Reverend Mr. Chadband.’
“认识肯格和卡博伊的办公室很多年了，”斯纳格斯比夫人得意洋洋地向古比先生解释道。 '太太。查德班德——这位先生的妻子——查德班德牧师先生。

‘Oh, indeed!’ says Mr. Guppy.
“哦，确实如此！”古比先生说。

‘Before I married my present husband,’ says Mrs. Chadband.
“在我嫁给现在的丈夫之前，”查德班德夫人说。

‘Was you a party in anything, ma’am?’ says Mr. Guppy, transferring his cross-examination.
“女士，你参与过什么事情吗？”古皮先生一边说，一边转移他的盘问。

‘No.’
'不。'

‘NOT a party in anything, ma’am?’ says Mr. Guppy.
“女士，不参加任何聚会吗？”古比先生说。

Mrs. Chadband shakes her head.
查德班德夫人摇摇头。

‘Perhaps you were acquainted with somebody who was a party in something, ma’am?’ says Mr. Guppy, who likes nothing better than to model his conversation on forensic principles.
“也许您认识某个参与某件事的人，女士？”古皮先生说，他最喜欢按照法医原理来模拟他的谈话。

‘Not exactly that, either,’ replies Mrs. Chadband, humouring the joke with a hard-favoured smile.
“也不完全是这样，”查德班德夫人回答道，脸上带着勉强的微笑，幽默地调侃了这个笑话。

‘Not exactly that, either!’ repeats Mr. Guppy. ‘Very good. Pray, ma’am, was it a lady of your acquaintance who had some transactions (we will not at present say what transactions) with Kenge and Carboy’s office, or was it a gentleman of your acquaintance? Take time, ma’am. We shall come to it presently. Man or woman, ma’am?’
“也不完全是这样！”古比先生重复道。 '非常好。请问，女士，是您认识的一位女士与肯格和卡博伊的办公室进行了一些交易（我们目前不会透露什么交易），还是您认识的一位绅士？花点时间，女士。我们很快就会谈到这一点。女士，是男人还是女人？

‘Neither,’ says Mrs. Chadband as before.
“都不是，”查德班德夫人一如既往地说。

‘Oh! A child!’ says Mr. Guppy, throwing on the admiring Mrs. Snagsby the regular acute professional eye which is thrown on British jurymen. ‘Now, ma’am, perhaps you’ll have the kindness to tell us WHAT child.’
'哦！一个孩子！”古皮先生说道，同时用英国陪审员们惯用的敏锐专业眼光投向钦佩的斯纳斯比夫人。 “现在，女士，也许您能好心告诉我们，孩子是什么。”

‘You have got it at last, sir,’ says Mrs. Chadband with another hard-favoured smile. ‘Well, sir, it was before your time, most likely, judging from your appearance. I was left in charge of a child named Esther Summerson, who was put out in life by Messrs. Kenge and Carboy.’
“你终于得到了它，先生，”查德班德夫人说道，脸上又露出了一丝不易察觉的微笑。 “嗯，先生，从你的外表来看，很可能是在你之前。”我留下来照顾一个名叫埃丝特·萨默森的孩子，她被肯格和卡博伊先生赶走了。

‘Miss Summerson, ma’am!’ cries Mr. Guppy, excited.
“萨默森小姐，女士！”古皮先生兴奋地喊道。

‘I call her Esther Summerson,’ says Mrs. Chadband with austerity. ‘There was no Miss-ing of the girl in my time. It was Esther. ‘Esther, do this! Esther, do that!’ and she was made to do it.’
“我叫她艾丝特·萨默森，”查德班德夫人严肃地说。 “在我那个时代，从来没有失踪过这个女孩。”是埃丝特。 ‘艾丝特，这样做！以斯帖，就这么做！’她被迫这么做了。”

‘My dear ma’am,’ returns Mr. Guppy, moving across the small apartment, ‘the humble individual who now addresses you received that young lady in London when she first came here from the establishment to which you have alluded. Allow me to have the pleasure of taking you by the hand.’
“我亲爱的女士，”古比先生穿过小公寓回答道，“那位谦虚的人现在向您讲话，她在伦敦接待了那位年轻女士，当时她刚从您提到的机构来到这里。请允许我有幸牵着你的手。

Mr. Chadband, at last seeing his opportunity, makes his accustomed signal and rises with a smoking head, which he dabs with his pocket-handkerchief. Mrs. Snagsby whispers ‘Hush!’
查德班德先生终于看到了机会，他做出了惯常的手势，站起身来，头上冒着烟，他用口袋手帕擦了擦头。斯纳斯比夫人低声说：“嘘！”

‘My friends,’ says Chadband, ‘we have partaken in moderation’ (which was certainly not the case so far as he was concerned) ‘of the comforts which have been provided for us. May this house live upon the fatness of the land; may corn and wine be plentiful therein; may it grow, may it thrive, may it prosper, may it advance, may it proceed, may it press forward! But, my friends, have we partaken of any-hing else? We have. My friends, of what else have we partaken? Of spiritual profit? Yes. From whence have we derived that spiritual profit? My young friend, stand forth!’
“我的朋友们，”查德班德说，“我们适度地享受了”（就他而言，情况肯定不是这样）“为我们提供的舒适”。愿这座房子生活在肥沃的土地上；愿那里有充足的五谷和酒；愿它成长，愿它蓬勃发展，愿它繁荣，愿它前进，愿它前进，愿它前进！但是，我的朋友们，我们还参加过其他活动吗？我们有。我的朋友们，我们还参加了什么？精神利益？是的。我们从哪里获得这种精神利益呢？我的年轻朋友，站起来！

Jo, thus apostrophized, gives a slouch backward, and another slouch forward, and another slouch to each side, and confronts the eloquent Chadband with evident doubts of his intentions.
乔，如此撇号，向后一弯，向前一弯，再向两侧弯一弯，面对雄辩的查德班德，显然对他的意图表示怀疑。

‘My young friend,’ says Chadband, ‘you are to us a pearl, you are to us a diamond, you are to us a gem, you are to us a jewel. And why, my young friend?’
“我年轻的朋友，”查德班德说，“你对我们来说是一颗珍珠，对我们来说你是一颗钻石，你对我们来说是一颗宝石，你对我们来说是一颗宝石。为什么，我的年轻朋友？

‘I don’t know,’ replies Jo. ‘I don’t know nothink.’
“我不知道，”乔回答道。 “我不知道。”

‘My young friend,’ says Chadband, ‘it is because you know nothing that you are to us a gem and jewel. For what are you, my young friend? Are you a beast of the field? No. A bird of the air? No. A fish of the sea or river? No. You are a human boy, my young friend. A human boy. O glorious to be a human boy! And why glorious, my young friend? Because you are capable of receiving the lessons of wisdom, because you are capable of profiting by this discourse which I now deliver for your good, because you are not a stick, or a staff, or a stock, or a stone, or a post, or a pillar.
“我年轻的朋友，”查德班德说，“正是因为你一无所知，所以你对我们来说才是一颗宝石。”我年轻的朋友，你到底是为了什么？你是田野里的猛兽吗？不，空中的鸟？不，海里的鱼还是河里的鱼？不，你是一个人类男孩，我的年轻朋友。一个人类男孩。作为一个人类男孩多么光荣啊！为什么光荣呢，我年轻的朋友？因为你能够接受智慧的教训，因为你能够从我现在为你的利益而发表的这个演讲中受益，因为你不是一根棍子，或一根棍子，或一根股票，或一块石头，或一根柱子，或柱子。

O running stream of sparkling joy
哦，闪闪发光的欢乐之流

To be a soaring human boy!
做一个飞翔的人类少年！

And do you cool yourself in that stream now, my young friend? No. Why do you not cool yourself in that stream now? Because you are in a state of darkness, because you are in a state of obscurity, because you are in a state of sinfulness, because you are in a state of bondage. My young friend, what is bondage? Let us, in a spirit of love, inquire.’
我年轻的朋友，你现在在溪流中冷静下来了吗？不，你现在为什么不在溪流里冷静一下呢？因为你处于黑暗的状态，因为你处于默默无闻的状态，因为你处于罪恶的状态，因为你处于束缚的状态。我的年轻朋友，什么是束缚？让我们本着爱的精神来询问。

At this threatening stage of the discourse, Jo, who seems to have been gradually going out of his mind, smears his right arm over his face and gives a terrible yawn. Mrs. Snagsby indignantly expresses her belief that he is a limb of the arch-fiend.
在谈话的这个威胁阶段，乔似乎已经逐渐失去了理智，他用右臂捂住了脸，打了一个可怕的哈欠。斯纳格斯比夫人愤怒地表示她相信他是大恶魔的一部分。

‘My friends,’ says Mr. Chadband with his persecuted chin folding itself into its fat smile again as he looks round, ‘it is right that I should be humbled, it is right that I should be tried, it is right that I should be mortified, it is right that I should be corrected. I stumbled, on Sabbath last, when I thought with pride of my three hours’ improving. The account is now favourably balanced: my creditor has accepted a composition. O let us be joyful, joyful! O let us be joyful!’
“我的朋友们，”查德班德先生环顾四周时，他那饱受折磨的下巴再次弯成胖胖的笑容，说道，“我应该感到谦卑，这是正确的，我应该受到审判，我应该接受审判，这是正确的。”感到羞愧，我应该被纠正是对的。上个安息日，当我自豪地想到我三个小时的进步时，我绊倒了。现在账户已经平衡：我的债权人已经接受了和解。噢，让我们喜乐、喜乐！噢，让我们快乐吧！

Great sensation on the part of Mrs. Snagsby.
斯纳斯比夫人引起了极大的轰动。

‘My friends,’ says Chadband, looking round him in conclusion, ‘I will not proceed with my young friend now. Will you come tomorrow, my young friend, and inquire of this good lady where I am to be found to deliver a discourse unto you, and will you come like the thirsty swallow upon the next day, and upon the day after that, and upon the day after that, and upon many pleasant days, to hear discourses?’ (This with a cow-like lightness.)
“我的朋友们，”查德班德环顾四周，最后说道，“我现在不会继续和我年轻的朋友在一起了。”我年轻的朋友，你明天会来询问这位善良的女士在哪里可以找到我给你演讲吗？你会像口渴的燕子一样在第二天、后天、最后一天来吗？在那之后的一天，以及许多愉快的日子里，来聆听开示？”（带着母牛般的轻松。）

Jo, whose immediate object seems to be to get away on any terms, gives a shuffling nod. Mr. Guppy then throws him a penny, and Mrs. Snagsby calls to Guster to see him safely out of the house. But before he goes downstairs, Mr. Snagsby loads him with some broken meats from the table, which he carries away, hugging in his arms.
乔的直接目标似乎是不惜一切代价逃脱，她拖着脚步点了点头。然后古比先生扔给他一分钱，斯纳斯比夫人打电话给古斯特，送他安全离开家。但在他下楼之前，斯纳斯比先生从桌子上拿了一些碎肉给他，他把它们抱在怀里带走了。

So, Mr. Chadband—of whom the persecutors say that it is no wonder he should go on for any length of time uttering such abominable nonsense, but that the wonder rather is that he should ever leave off, having once the audacity to begin—retires into private life until he invests a little capital of supper in the oil-trade. Jo moves on, through the long vacation, down to Blackfriars Bridge, where he finds a baking stony corner wherein to settle to his repast.
所以，查德班德先生——迫害者说，毫不奇怪他会继续说出如此令人憎恶的胡言乱语，但更奇怪的是，他曾经有过一次大胆的开始，竟然会停下来——退休后开始私人生活，直到他在石油贸易上投入了一点晚餐资金。乔继续前行，度过了漫长的假期，来到了布莱克法尔桥，在那里他找到了一个烘烤着石头的角落，在那里坐下来吃饭。

And there he sits, munching and gnawing, and looking up at the great cross on the summit of St. Paul’s Cathedral, glittering above a red-and-violet-tinted cloud of smoke. From the boy’s face one might suppose that sacred emblem to be, in his eyes, the crowning confusion of the great, confused city—so golden, so high up, so far out of his reach. There he sits, the sun going down, the river running fast, the crowd flowing by him in two streams—everything moving on to some purpose and to one end—until he is stirred up and told to ‘move on’ too.
他坐在那里，咀嚼着，抬头看着圣保罗大教堂顶上的巨大十字架，十字架在红紫色的烟雾中闪闪发光。从男孩的脸上，人们可能会认为，在他眼中，这个神圣的标志是这座伟大而混乱的城市的最高混乱——那么金色，那么高，那么遥不可及。他坐在那里，太阳落山，河水湍急，人群分两股从他身边流过——一切都在朝着某个目的和终点前进——直到他被激起并被告知也“继续前进”。

CHAPTER XX
第二十章


A New Lodger
新房客

The long vacation saunters on towards term-time like an idle river very leisurely strolling down a flat country to the sea. Mr. Guppy saunters along with it congenially. He has blunted the blade of his penknife and broken the point off by sticking that instrument into his desk in every direction. Not that he bears the desk any ill will, but he must do something, and it must be something of an unexciting nature, which will lay neither his physical nor his intellectual energies under too heavy contribution. He finds that nothing agrees with him so well as to make little gyrations on one leg of his stool, and stab his desk, and gape.
漫长的假期慢慢地临近学期，就像一条闲置的河流，悠闲地沿着平坦的乡村流向大海。孔雀鱼先生和蔼可亲地跟着它闲逛。他把小刀的刀刃弄钝了，并通过将小刀从各个方向插入办公桌来折断刀尖。并不是说他对办公桌怀有恶意，而是他必须做点什么，而且必须是一些平淡无奇的事情，这样既不会让他的体力和智力承担过重的负担。他发现没有什么比在凳子的一条腿上稍微旋转一下、刺伤桌子、目瞪口呆更适合他的了。

Kenge and Carboy are out of town, and the articled clerk has taken out a shooting license and gone down to his father’s, and Mr. Guppy’s two fellow-stipendiaries are away on leave. Mr. Guppy and Mr. Richard Carstone divide the dignity of the office. But Mr. Carstone is for the time being established in Kenge’s room, whereat Mr. Guppy chafes. So exceedingly that he with biting sarcasm informs his mother, in the confidential moments when he sups with her off a lobster and lettuce in the Old Street Road, that he is afraid the office is hardly good enough for swells, and that if he had known there was a swell coming, he would have got it painted.
肯格和卡博伊出城了，那位文章中的职员已经拿出了射击执照，去了他父亲的那儿，而古比先生的两位领取薪水的同事正在休假。古比先生和理查德·卡斯通先生瓜分了办公室的尊严。但卡斯通先生暂时住在肯吉的房间里，古比先生对此很恼火。如此极端，以至于当他与母亲在老街路一起吃龙虾和生菜时，他带着尖刻的讽刺告诉他的母亲，他担心办公室不足以容纳膨胀，如果他知道的话潮水即将来临，他会把它漆掉的。

Mr. Guppy suspects everybody who enters on the occupation of a stool in Kenge and Carboy’s office of entertaining, as a matter of course, sinister designs upon him. He is clear that every such person wants to depose him. If he be ever asked how, why, when, or wherefore, he shuts up one eye and shakes his head. On the strength of these profound views, he in the most ingenious manner takes infinite pains to counterplot when there is no plot, and plays the deepest games of chess without any adversary.
古比先生怀疑所有进入肯格和卡博伊办公室的人都是为了招待他，当然，他们对他怀有险恶的阴谋。他很清楚，每一个这样的人都想废黜他。如果有人问他如何、为什么、何时或为何，他就会闭上一只眼睛并摇摇头。凭借这些深刻的见解，他以最巧妙的方式在无情节时煞费苦心地进行反制，在没有对手的情况下下一盘最深的棋。

It is a source of much gratification to Mr. Guppy, therefore, to find the new-comer constantly poring over the papers in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, for he well knows that nothing but confusion and failure can come of that. His satisfaction communicates itself to a third saunterer through the long vacation in Kenge and Carboy’s office, to wit, Young Smallweed.
因此，让古比先生感到非常欣慰的是，新来的人不断地研读《加迪斯》和《加迪斯》的论文，因为他很清楚，这样做只会带来混乱和失败。他的满足感传达给了肯格和卡博伊办公室里的第三位闲逛者，即年轻的斯莫威德。

Whether Young Smallweed (metaphorically called Small and eke Chick Weed, as it were jocularly to express a fledgling) was ever a boy is much doubted in Lincoln’s Inn. He is now something under fifteen and an old limb of the law. He is facetiously understood to entertain a passion for a lady at a cigar-shop in the neighbourhood of Chancery Lane and for her sake to have broken off a contract with another lady, to whom he had been engaged some years. He is a town-made article, of small stature and weazen features, but may be perceived from a considerable distance by means of his very tall hat. To become a Guppy is the object of his ambition. He dresses at that gentleman (by whom he is patronized), talks at him, walks at him, founds himself entirely on him. He is honoured with Mr. Guppy’s particular confidence and occasionally advises him, from the deep wells of his experience, on difficult points in private life.
在林肯客栈，年轻的小草（被比喻为“小小”和“小鸡草”，因为它被戏谑地表达了雏鸟）是否曾经是一个男孩，人们非常怀疑。他现在还不到十五岁，已经是法律的老犯了。人们开玩笑地认为，他在大法官巷附近的一家雪茄店里对一位女士产生了热情，并为了她而与另一位已订婚多年的女士解除了合同。他是镇上的人物，身材矮小，面容苍白，但通过他很高的帽子，从很远的地方就可以看到他。成为孔雀鱼是他的野心目标。他对那位绅士（他受到他的庇护）着装，对他说话，对他行走，发现自己完全依赖于他。他对古比先生的特别信任感到荣幸，并偶尔根据他丰富的经验，就私人生活中的困难问题向他提出建议。

Mr. Guppy has been lolling out of window all the morning after trying all the stools in succession and finding none of them easy, and after several times putting his head into the iron safe with a notion of cooling it. Mr. Smallweed has been twice dispatched for effervescent drinks, and has twice mixed them in the two official tumblers and stirred them up with the ruler. Mr. Guppy propounds for Mr. Smallweed’s consideration the paradox that the more you drink the thirstier you are and reclines his head upon the windowsill in a state of hopeless languor.
古比先生一上午都懒洋洋地躺在窗外，他连续尝试了所有的凳子，发现没有一个容易做，并且几次把头伸进铁保险箱里，想给它降温。 Smallweed 先生曾两次被派去购买泡腾饮料，并两次将它们混合在两个官方玻璃杯中并用尺子搅拌。古皮先生向斯莫威德先生提出了一个悖论，即你喝得越多就越渴，他把头靠在窗台上，一副绝望的倦怠状态。

While thus looking out into the shade of Old Square, Lincoln’s Inn, surveying the intolerable bricks and mortar, Mr. Guppy becomes conscious of a manly whisker emerging from the cloistered walk below and turning itself up in the direction of his face. At the same time, a low whistle is wafted through the Inn and a suppressed voice cries, ‘Hip! Gup-py!’
当孔雀先生眺望林肯旅馆老广场的阴凉处，审视令人难以忍受的砖块和灰浆时，他意识到一根有男子气概的胡须从下面与世隔绝的小道上伸出，并朝他脸的方向翘起。与此同时，一声低沉的哨声在客栈中响起，一个压抑的声音喊道：“嗨！”孔雀鱼！’

‘Why, you don’t mean it!’ says Mr. Guppy, aroused. ‘Small! Here’s Jobling!’ Small’s head looks out of window too and nods to Jobling.
“哎呀，你不是这个意思！”古比先生兴奋地说。 '小的！这是乔布林！”斯莫尔也把头望向窗外，向乔布林点点头。

‘Where have you sprung up from?’ inquires Mr. Guppy.
“你从哪里冒出来的？”古比先生问道。

‘From the market-gardens down by Deptford. I can’t stand it any longer. I must enlist. I say! I wish you’d lend me half a crown. Upon my soul, I’m hungry.’
“从德普特福德下面的市场花园开始。”我再也受不了了。我必须入伍。我说！我希望你能借我半克朗。我的灵魂深处，我很饿。

Jobling looks hungry and also has the appearance of having run to seed in the market-gardens down by Deptford.
乔布林看起来很饿，而且还像是在德特福德附近的市场花园里撒种的样子。

‘I say! Just throw out half a crown if you have got one to spare. I want to get some dinner.’
'我说！如果你还有多余的，就扔掉半克朗吧。我想吃点晚饭。

‘Will you come and dine with me?’ says Mr. Guppy, throwing out the coin, which Mr. Jobling catches neatly.
“你愿意来和我一起吃饭吗？”古比先生说着，扔出了硬币，被乔布林先生巧妙地接住了。

‘How long should I have to hold out?’ says Jobling.
“我必须坚持多久？”乔布林说。

‘Not half an hour. I am only waiting here till the enemy goes, returns Mr. Guppy, butting inward with his head.
‘不到半小时。 “我只是在这里等敌人走，”孔雀鱼先生返回，用头向内撞。

‘What enemy?’
“什么敌人？”

‘A new one. Going to be articled. Will you wait?’
‘一个新的。即将发表文章。你会等吗？

‘Can you give a fellow anything to read in the meantime?’ says Mr Jobling.
乔布林先生说：“你能给一个人提供一些东西让他们同时阅读吗？”

Smallweed suggests the law list. But Mr. Jobling declares with much earnestness that he ‘can’t stand it.’
Smallweed 建议法律清单。但乔布林先生非常认真地宣称他“无法忍受”。

‘You shall have the paper,’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘He shall bring it down. But you had better not be seen about here. Sit on our staircase and read. It’s a quiet place.’
“你应该拿到那张纸，”古比先生说。 ‘他会把它打倒的。但你最好不要在这里被发现。坐在我们的楼梯上读书。这是一个安静的地方。

Jobling nods intelligence and acquiescence. The sagacious Smallweed supplies him with the newspaper and occasionally drops his eye upon him from the landing as a precaution against his becoming disgusted with waiting and making an untimely departure. At last the enemy retreats, and then Smallweed fetches Mr. Jobling up.
乔布林点头表示同意。聪明的斯莫威德给他提供了报纸，并偶尔在楼梯平台上注视着他，以防他因等待而感到厌恶并不合时宜地离开。最后敌人撤退了，然后斯莫威德把乔布林先生救了上来。

‘Well, and how are you?’ says Mr. Guppy, shaking hands with him.
“嗯，你好吗？”古比先生一边说，一边与他握手。

‘So, so. How are you?’
'一般般。你好吗？'

Mr. Guppy replying that he is not much to boast of, Mr. Jobling ventures on the question, ‘How is SHE?’ This Mr. Guppy resents as a liberty, retorting, ‘Jobling, there ARE chords in the human mind—‘ Jobling begs pardon.
古比先生回答说他没什么值得夸耀的，乔布林先生大胆地问了一个问题：“她怎么样？”古比先生厌恶这种自由，反驳道：“乔布林，人类的心灵里有和弦——”乔布林请求原谅。

‘Any subject but that!’ says Mr. Guppy with a gloomy enjoyment of his injury. ‘For there ARE chords, Jobling—‘
“除了这个以外，什么话题都可以！”古比先生说道，他对自己的受伤感到忧郁。 “因为有和弦，乔布林——”

Mr. Jobling begs pardon again.
乔布林先生再次请求原谅。

During this short colloquy, the active Smallweed, who is of the dinner party, has written in legal characters on a slip of paper, ‘Return immediately.’ This notification to all whom it may concern, he inserts in the letter-box, and then putting on the tall hat at the angle of inclination at which Mr. Guppy wears his, informs his patron that they may now make themselves scarce.
在这次简短的谈话中，参加晚宴的活跃分子斯莫尔韦德在一张纸条上用合法字符写下了“立即返回”。然后以孔雀先生所戴帽子的倾斜角度戴上高帽子，告诉他的赞助人，他们现在可以让自己变得稀缺。

Accordingly they betake themselves to a neighbouring dining-house, of the class known among its frequenters by the denomination slapbang, where the waitress, a bouncing young female of forty, is supposed to have made some impression on the susceptible Smallweed, of whom it may be remarked that he is a weird changeling to whom years are nothing. He stands precociously possessed of centuries of owlish wisdom. If he ever lay in a cradle, it seems as if he must have lain there in a tail-coat. He has an old, old eye, has Smallweed; and he drinks and smokes in a monkeyish way; and his neck is stiff in his collar; and he is never to be taken in; and he knows all about it, whatever it is. In short, in his bringing up he has been so nursed by Law and Equity that he has become a kind of fossil imp, to account for whose terrestrial existence it is reported at the public offices that his father was John Doe and his mother the only female member of the Roe family, also that his first long-clothes were made from a blue bag.
因此，他们去了附近的一家餐馆，这家餐馆的常客们都知道这家餐馆的名字叫“slapbang”，那里的女服务员是一位活泼的四十岁年轻女性，据说给易受影响的斯莫威德留下了一些印象，她可能值得注意的是，他是一个奇怪的换生灵，岁月对他来说不算什么。他早熟地拥有几个世纪的猫头鹰智慧。如果他曾经躺在摇篮里，那么他似乎一定是穿着燕尾服躺在那里。他有一双老眼睛，有小草；他像猴子一样喝酒、抽烟；他的脖子在衣领里僵硬；他永远不会被欺骗；他知道这一切，无论是什么。简而言之，在他的成长过程中，他一直受到法律和公平的养育，以至于他已经成为一种化石小恶魔，为了解释其在地球上的存在，据公共办公室报道，他的父亲是约翰·多伊，而他的母亲是唯一的母亲。罗伊家族的女性成员，还说他的第一件长衣服是用蓝色袋子制成的。

Into the dining-house, unaffected by the seductive show in the window of artificially whitened cauliflowers and poultry, verdant baskets of peas, coolly blooming cucumbers, and joints ready for the spit, Mr. Smallweed leads the way. They know him there and defer to him. He has his favourite box, he bespeaks all the papers, he is down upon bald patriarchs, who keep them more than ten minutes afterwards. It is of no use trying him with anything less than a full-sized ‘bread’ or proposing to him any joint in cut unless it is in the very best cut. In the matter of gravy he is adamant.
斯莫尔威德先生在前面带路，走进餐厅，橱窗里摆满了人工增白的花椰菜和家禽、一篮子翠绿的豌豆、凉爽绽放的黄瓜和准备上桌的大块大麻籽，丝毫没有受到这些诱惑的影响。他们在那里认识他并服从他。他有他最喜欢的盒子，他写了所有的文件，他对秃顶的族长很瞧不起，他们在十多分钟后就把它们保留了。尝试他用任何小于全尺寸“面包”的东西或向他建议任何切块都是没有用的，除非它是最好的切块。在肉汁问题上，他态度坚决。

Conscious of his elfin power and submitting to his dread experience, Mr. Guppy consults him in the choice of that day’s banquet, turning an appealing look towards him as the waitress repeats the catalogue of viands and saying ‘What do YOU take, Chick?’ Chick, out of the profundity of his artfulness, preferring ‘veal and ham and French beans—and don’t you forget the stuffing, Polly’ (with an unearthly cock of his venerable eye), Mr. Guppy and Mr. Jobling give the like order. Three pint pots of half-and-half are superadded. Quickly the waitress returns bearing what is apparently a model of the Tower of Babel but what is really a pile of plates and flat tin dish-covers. Mr. Smallweed, approving of what is set before him, conveys intelligent benignity into his ancient eye and winks upon her. Then, amid a constant coming in, and going out, and running about, and a clatter of crockery, and a rumbling up and down of the machine which brings the nice cuts from the kitchen, and a shrill crying for more nice cuts down the speaking-pipe, and a shrill reckoning of the cost of nice cuts that have been disposed of, and a general flush and steam of hot joints, cut and uncut, and a considerably heated atmosphere in which the soiled knives and tablecloths seem to break out spontaneously into eruptions of grease and blotches of beer, the legal triumvirate appease their appetites.
意识到自己的精灵力量并屈服于他可怕的经历，孔比先生在选择当天的宴会时向他咨询，当女服务员重复菜单上的食物并问道“你要吃什么，小鸡？”时，孔皮先生向他投来了恳求的目光。奇克出于他的狡猾之深，更喜欢“小牛肉、火腿和四季豆——还有你别忘了馅料，波利”（他那双令人尊敬的眼睛充满了神秘的公鸡），古皮先生和乔布林先生给了喜欢订单。添加了三品脱罐的各半。很快，女服务员回来了，手里拿着的东西显然是巴别塔的模型，但实际上是一堆盘子和扁平的锡盘盖。斯莫威德先生对眼前的一切表示赞同，他那双古老的眼睛里流露出聪明的仁慈，并对她眨了眨眼。然后，在不断地进出、跑来跑去的声音中，伴随着陶器的叮当声，机器的上下隆隆声，从厨房送来漂亮的切菜，还有尖叫声要求更多更好的切菜。说话管，对已处理掉的漂亮切口的成本进行尖锐的计算，对已切和未切的热接缝进行全面的冲洗和蒸汽，以及相当炎热的气氛，在这种气氛中，肮脏的刀具和桌布似乎要爆发出来合法的三巨头会自发地喷出油脂和啤酒，以满足他们的食欲。

Mr. Jobling is buttoned up closer than mere adornment might require. His hat presents at the rims a peculiar appearance of a glistening nature, as if it had been a favourite snail-promenade. The same phenomenon is visible on some parts of his coat, and particularly at the seams. He has the faded appearance of a gentleman in embarrassed circumstances; even his light whiskers droop with something of a shabby air.
乔布林先生的扣扣比单纯的装饰要求的要严密。他的帽子边缘呈现出一种闪闪发光的奇特外观，仿佛这是一条最喜欢的蜗牛散步。在他外套的某些部分，尤其是接缝处，也可以看到同样的现象。他有一种在尴尬的情况下褪色的绅士外表；就连浅色的胡须都耷拉着，显得有些破旧。

His appetite is so vigorous that it suggests spare living for some little time back. He makes such a speedy end of his plate of veal and ham, bringing it to a close while his companions are yet midway in theirs, that Mr. Guppy proposes another. ‘Thank you, Guppy,’ says Mr. Jobling, ‘I really don’t know but what I WILL take another.’
他的胃口如此旺盛，这表明他在不久的将来会过着悠闲的生活。他很快就把一盘小牛肉和火腿吃完了，而他的同伴们还没有吃到一半，孔雀鱼先生就提议再来一份。 “谢谢你，古比，”乔布林先生说，“我真的不知道我还要再拿什么。”

Another being brought, he falls to with great goodwill.
另一个人被带来，他怀着极大的善意。

Mr. Guppy takes silent notice of him at intervals until he is half way through this second plate and stops to take an enjoying pull at his pint pot of half-and-half (also renewed) and stretches out his legs and rubs his hands. Beholding him in which glow of contentment, Mr. Guppy says, ‘You are a man again, Tony!’
孔雀鱼先生时不时地默默地注意他，直到他吃完第二盘的一半，停下来享受他的一品脱壶对半的饮料（也更新了），然后伸出双腿，揉搓双手。看着他脸上洋溢着满足的光芒，古比先生说道：“托尼，你又是一个男人了！”

‘Well, not quite yet,’ says Mr. Jobling. ‘Say, just born.’
“嗯，还没有，”乔布林先生说。 “说吧，刚出生。”

‘Will you take any other vegetables? Grass? Peas? Summer cabbage?’
“你还要吃其他蔬菜吗？草？豌豆？夏天的卷心菜？

‘Thank you, Guppy,’ says Mr. Jobling. ‘I really don’t know but what I WILL take summer cabbage.’
“谢谢你，古比，”乔布林先生说。 “我真的不知道我会吃什么夏季卷心菜。”

Order given; with the sarcastic addition (from Mr. Smallweed) of ‘Without slugs, Polly!’ And cabbage produced.
已发出命令；加上讽刺的补充（来自斯莫威德先生）“没有蛞蝓，波莉！”然后卷心菜就生产出来了。

‘I am growing up, Guppy,’ says Mr. Jobling, plying his knife and fork with a relishing steadiness.
“我正在长大，孔雀鱼，”乔布林先生一边说，一边用他的刀叉以一种令人愉快的稳定状态使用着。

‘Glad to hear it.’
'听到那个消息很开心。'

‘In fact, I have just turned into my teens,’ says Mr. Jobling.
“事实上，我刚刚进入青少年时期，”乔布林先生说。

He says no more until he has performed his task, which he achieves as Messrs. Guppy and Smallweed finish theirs, thus getting over the ground in excellent style and beating those two gentlemen easily by a veal and ham and a cabbage.
他没有再说什么，直到他完成了他的任务，当孔雀鱼和斯莫威德先生完成了他们的任务时，他就完成了任务，从而以出色的风格取得了进展，并以小牛肉、火腿和卷心菜轻松击败了那两位先生。

‘Now, Small,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘what would you recommend about pastry?’
“现在，斯莫尔，”古比先生说，“你对糕点有何推荐？”

‘Marrow puddings,’ says Mr. Smallweed instantly.
“骨髓布丁，”斯莫威德先生立即说道。

‘Aye, aye!’ cries Mr. Jobling with an arch look. ‘You’re there, are you? Thank you, Mr. Guppy, I don’t know but what I WILL take a marrow pudding.’
“是啊，是啊！”乔布林先生一脸弓着脸喊道。 ‘你在那儿，是吗？谢谢你，古比先生，我不知道我要吃什么骨髓布丁。

Three marrow puddings being produced, Mr. Jobling adds in a pleasant humour that he is coming of age fast. To these succeed, by command of Mr. Smallweed, ‘three Cheshires,’ and to those ‘three small rums.’ This apex of the entertainment happily reached, Mr. Jobling puts up his legs on the carpeted seat (having his own side of the box to himself), leans against the wall, and says, ‘I am grown up now, Guppy. I have arrived at maturity.’
正在制作三块骨髓布丁，乔布林先生以愉快的幽默方式补充道，他很快就会成熟。为了使这些成功，在斯莫威德先生的指挥下，“三个柴郡”和“三个小朗姆酒”。娱乐活动愉快地达到了顶峰，乔布林先生把腿放在铺着地毯的座位上（他自己的一侧有盒子留给自己），靠在墙上说：“我现在长大了，孔雀鱼。”我已经成熟了。

‘What do you think, now,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘about—you don’t mind Smallweed?’
“现在，你觉得怎么样？”孔雀先生说，“你不介意斯莫威德吗？”

‘Not the least in the worid. I have the pleasure of drinking his good health.’
'这在世界上并不是最不重要的。我很高兴为他的健康干杯。

‘Sir, to you!’ says Mr. Smallweed.
“先生，您好！”斯莫威德先生说道。

‘I was saying, what do you think NOW,’ pursues Mr. Guppy, ‘of enlisting?’
“我是说，你现在觉得入伍怎么样？”古皮先生继续说道。

‘Why, what I may think after dinner,’ returns Mr. Jobling, ‘is one thing, my dear Guppy, and what I may think before dinner is another thing. Still, even after dinner, I ask myself the question, What am I to do? How am I to live? Ill fo manger, you know,’ says Mr. Jobling, pronouncing that word as if he meant a necessary fixture in an English stable. ‘Ill fo manger. That’s the French saying, and mangering is as necessary to me as it is to a Frenchman. Or more so.’
“哎呀，晚饭后我可能想的事情，”乔布林先生回答道，“是一回事，亲爱的孔雀鱼，而晚饭前我可能想的事情又是另一回事了。尽管如此，即使在晚饭后，我也会问自己这个问题：我该怎么办？我该如何生活？ “Ill fo manger，你知道的，”乔布林先生说，他的这个词的发音就好像他指的是英国马厩里的必备设施一样。 ‘马槽有病。这是法国人的俗话，管理对我和法国人来说都是必要的。或者更是如此。

Mr. Smallweed is decidedly of opinion ‘much more so.’
Smallweed 先生的观点显然“更是如此”。

‘If any man had told me,’ pursues Jobling, ‘even so lately as when you and I had the frisk down in Lincolnshire, Guppy, and drove over to see that house at Castle Wold—‘
“如果有人告诉我，”乔布林继续说道，“即使是最近，当你和我在林肯郡搜查孔雀鱼，然后开车去看沃尔德城堡的那所房子时——”

Mr. Smallweed corrects him—Chesney Wold.
斯莫威德先生纠正了他——切斯尼·沃尔德。

‘Chesney Wold. (I thank my honourable friend for that cheer.) If any man had told me then that I should be as hard up at the present time as I literally find myself, I should have—well, I should have pitched into him,’ says Mr. Jobling, taking a little rum-and-water with an air of desperate resignation; ‘I should have let fly at his head.’
‘切斯尼沃尔德。 （我感谢我尊敬的朋友的欢呼。）如果当时有人告诉我，我现在应该像我自己发现的那样困难，我应该——好吧，我应该向他投球，”说乔布林先生，带着绝望的无奈，喝了一点朗姆酒和水。 “我应该朝他的头放飞的。”

‘Still, Tony, you were on the wrong side of the post then,’ remonstrates Mr. Guppy. ‘You were talking about nothing else in the gig.’
“不过，托尼，你当时站在了错误的一边，”古皮先生抗议道。 “你在演出中没有谈论任何其他事情。”

‘Guppy,’ says Mr. Jobling, ‘I will not deny it. I was on the wrong side of the post. But I trusted to things coming round.’
“孔雀鱼，”乔布林先生说，“我不会否认这一点。我站在了帖子的错误一边。但我相信即将发生的事情。

That very popular trust in flat things coming round! Not in their being beaten round, or worked round, but in their ‘coming’ round! As though a lunatic should trust in the world’s ‘coming’ triangular!
人们对扁平事物的普遍信任即将到来！不是他们被打败，或者被工作，而是他们“来”了！就好像一个疯子应该相信世界‘即将到来’的三角形一样！

‘I had confident expectations that things would come round and be all square,’ says Mr. Jobling with some vagueness of expression and perhaps of meaning too. ‘But I was disappointed. They never did. And when it came to creditors making rows at the office and to people that the office dealt with making complaints about dirty trifles of borrowed money, why there was an end of that connexion. And of any new professional connexion too, for if I was to give a reference to-morrow, it would be mentioned and would sew me up. Then what’s a fellow to do? I have been keeping out of the way and living cheap down about the market-gardens, but what’s the use of living cheap when you have got no money? You might as well live dear.’
“我满怀信心地期望事情会好转，一切顺利。”乔布林先生说道，语气有些含糊，也许意思也含糊不清。 ‘但我很失望。他们从来没有这样做过。当债权人在办公室里争吵，以及与办公室打交道的人抱怨借钱的肮脏小事时，为什么这种联系会结束呢？还有任何新的专业联系，因为如果我明天要提供参考，它就会被提及，并且会把我缝合起来。那么，一个人该怎么办呢？我一直不碍事，在市场花园附近过着廉价的生活，但是当你没有钱的时候，过着廉价的生活有什么用呢？你还不如亲爱的生活。

‘Better,’ Mr. Smallweed thinks.
“更好了，”斯莫威德先生想。

‘Certainly. It’s the fashionable way; and fashion and whiskers have been my weaknesses, and I don’t care who knows it,’ says Mr. Jobling. ‘They are great weaknesses—Damme, sir, they are great. Well,’ proceeds Mr. Jobling after a defiant visit to his rum-andwater, ‘what can a fellow do, I ask you, BUT enlist?’
'当然。这是一种时尚的方式； “时尚和胡须一直是我的弱点，我不在乎谁知道这一点，”乔布林先生说。 “它们是巨大的弱点——达姆，先生，它们是伟大的。”好吧，”乔布林先生在喝完朗姆酒和水后继续说道，“我问你，一个人除了入伍还能做什么？

Mr. Guppy comes more fully into the conversation to state what, in his opinion, a fellow can do. His manner is the gravely impressive manner of a man who has not committed himself in life otherwise than as he has become the victim of a tender sorrow of the heart.
古比先生更全面地介入谈话，阐述他认为一个人可以做什么。他的举止是一种令人印象深刻的举止，一个人在生活中除了成为内心温柔悲伤的受害者之外，没有任何承诺。

‘Jobling,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘myself and our mutual friend Smallweed—‘
“工作，”古皮先生说，“我和我们共同的朋友斯莫威德——”

Mr. Smallweed modestly observes, ‘Gentlemen both!’ and drinks.
斯莫威德先生谦虚地说道：“两位先生！”然后喝了一杯。

‘—Have had a little conversation on this matter more than once since you—‘
“——自从你——以来，我们已经不止一次地就这件事进行过一些交谈了——”

‘Say, got the sack!’ cries Mr. Jobling bitterly. ‘Say it, Guppy. You mean it.’
“喂，被解雇了！”乔布林先生痛苦地喊道。 ‘说吧，古比。你是认真的。

‘No-o-o! Left the Inn,’ Mr. Smallweed delicately suggests.
‘不——哦——哦！离开旅馆，”斯莫威德先生微妙地建议道。

‘Since you left the Inn, Jobling,’ says Mr. Guppy; ‘and I have mentioned to our mutual friend Smallweed a plan I have lately thought of proposing. You know Snagsby the stationer?’
“乔布林，自从你离开旅馆以来，”古比先生说道。 “我向我们共同的朋友斯莫威德提到了我最近想提出的一个计划。你认识文具店斯纳斯比吗？

‘I know there is such a stationer,’ returns Mr. Jobling. ‘He was not ours, and I am not acquainted with him.’
“我知道有这样一个文具店，”乔布林先生回答道。 “他不是我们的，我也不认识他。”

‘He IS ours, Jobling, and I AM acquainted with him,’ Mr. Guppy retorts. ‘Well, sir! I have lately become better acquainted with him through some accidental circumstances that have made me a visitor of his in private life. Those circumstances it is not necessary to offer in argument. They may—or they may not—have some reference to a subject which may—or may not—have cast its shadow on my existence.’
“他是我们的，乔布林，我很熟悉他，”古皮先生反驳道。 ‘好吧，先生！最近，由于一些偶然的情况，我对他有了更多的了解，使我成为他私生活中的访客。这些情况没有必要在论证中提出。他们可能——也可能没有——提到了一个可能——也可能没有——给我的存在投下阴影的主题。

As it is Mr. Guppy’s perplexing way with boastful misery to tempt his particular friends into this subject, and the moment they touch it, to turn on them with that trenchant severity about the chords in the human mind, both Mr. Jobling and Mr. Smallweed decline the pitfall by remaining silent.
顾比先生用一种令人费解的方式，用自吹自擂的痛苦引诱他的特定朋友进入这个话题，而当他们触及这个话题时，他又以对人类心灵中的和弦的那种尖锐严厉的态度来攻击他们，乔布林先生和乔布林先生都如此。 Smallweed 通过保持沉默来避免陷入陷阱。

‘Such things may be,’ repeats Mr. Guppy, ‘or they may not be. They are no part of the case. It is enough to mention that both Mr. and Mrs. Snagsby are very willing to oblige me and that Snagsby has, in busy times, a good deal of copying work to give out. He has all Tulkinghorn’s, and an excellent business besides. I believe if our mutual friend Smallweed were put into the box, he could prove this?’
“这样的事情可能是，”古比先生重复道，“也可能不是。他们不属于此案。值得一提的是，斯纳格斯比先生和夫人都非常愿意帮助我，而且斯纳格斯比在繁忙的时候有大量的复印工作要做。他拥有图金霍恩的一切，此外还有一笔出色的生意。我相信如果我们共同的朋友 Smallweed 被放进盒子里，他可以证明这一点吗？

Mr. Smallweed nods and appears greedy to be sworn.
斯莫威德先生点点头，似乎很想宣誓。

‘Now, gentlemen of the jury,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘—I mean, now, Jobling—you may say this is a poor prospect of a living. Granted. But it’s better than nothing, and better than enlistment. You want time. There must be time for these late affairs to blow over. You might live through it on much worse terms than by writing for Snagsby.’
“现在，陪审团的先生们，”古皮先生说，“——我的意思是，现在，乔布林——你可能会说这是一种糟糕的生活前景。”的确。但这总比什么都没有好，也比入伍好。你想要时间。这些迟来的事情必须有时间平息。你可能会以比为 Snagsby 写作更糟糕的方式度过这一切。

Mr. Jobling is about to interrupt when the sagacious Smallweed checks him with a dry cough and the words, ‘Hem! Shakspeare!’
乔布林先生正要打断他的话，聪明的小威德干咳一声制止了他，并说道：“哼！”莎士比亚！’

‘There are two branches to this subject, Jobling,’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘That is the first. I come to the second. You know Krook, the Chancellor, across the lane. Come, Jobling,’ says Mr. Guppy in his encouraging cross-examination-tone, ‘I think you know Krook, the Chancellor, across the lane?’
“乔布林，这个主题有两个分支，”古比先生说。 ‘这是第一件事。我来谈谈第二个。你认识对面的财政大臣克鲁克。来吧，乔布林，”古皮先生用鼓励的盘问语气说道，“我想你认识对面巷子里的财政大臣克鲁克？”

‘I know him by sight,’ says Mr. Jobling.
“我一眼就认出了他，”乔布林先生说。

‘You know him by sight. Very well. And you know little Flite?’
‘你一眼就认识他了。很好。你认识小弗利特吗？

‘Everybody knows her,’ says Mr. Jobling.
“每个人都认识她，”乔布林先生说。

‘Everybody knows her. VERY well. Now it has been one of my duties of late to pay Flite a certain weekly allowance, deducting from it the amount of her weekly rent, which I have paid (in consequence of instructions I have received) to Krook himself, regularly in her presence. This has brought me into communication with Krook and into a knowledge of his house and his habits. I know he has a room to let. You may live there at a very low charge under any name you like, as quietly as if you were a hundred miles off. He’ll ask no questions and would accept you as a tenant at a word from me— before the clock strikes, if you chose. And I tell you another thing, Jobling,’ says Mr. Guppy, who has suddenly lowered his voice and become familiar again, ‘he’s an extraordinary old chap—always rummaging among a litter of papers and grubbing away at teaching himself to read and write, without getting on a bit, as it seems to me. He is a most extraordinary old chap, sir. I don’t know but what it might be worth a fellow’s while to look him up a bit.’
‘每个人都认识她。很好。现在，我最近的职责之一是向弗莱特支付一定的每周津贴，从中扣除她每周的租金，我已经（根据我收到的指示）向克鲁克本人支付了租金，定期当着她的面。这让我与克鲁克有了交流，了解了他的房子和他的习惯。我知道他有房间出租。您可以以非常低的费用以任何您喜欢的名字住在那里，就像您在一百英里外一样安静。他不会问任何问题，只要我一声令下，他就会接受你作为房客——如果你愿意的话，在时钟敲响之前。我告诉你另一件事，乔布林，”古比先生突然压低了声音，又变得熟悉起来，“他是个了不起的老家伙——总是在一堆文件中翻找，苦苦自学读书写字。 ，在我看来，没有一点进展。先生，他是一位非常了不起的老伙计。我不知道，但一个人花时间去查查他到底值不值得。”

‘You don’t mean—‘ Mr. Jobling begins.
“你的意思不是——”乔布林先生开始说道。

‘I mean,’ returns Mr. Guppy, shrugging his shoulders with becoming modesty, ‘that I can’t make him out. I appeal to our mutual friend Smallweed whether he has or has not heard me remark that I can’t make him out.’
“我的意思是，”古比先生回答道，他谦虚地耸了耸肩，“我认不出他来。”我向我们共同的朋友斯莫威德求助，无论他是否听到我说我听不清他。

Mr. Smallweed bears the concise testimony, ‘A few!’
斯莫威德先生作了简洁的证言：“有一些！”

‘I have seen something of the profession and something of life, Tony,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘and it’s seldom I can’t make a man out, more or less. But such an old card as this, so deep, so sly, and secret (though I don’t believe he is ever sober), I never came across. Now, he must be precious old, you know, and he has not a soul about him, and he is reported to be immensely rich; and whether he is a smuggler, or a receiver, or an unlicensed pawnbroker, or a money-lender—all of which I have thought likely at different times—it might pay you to knock up a sort of knowledge of him. I don’t see why you shouldn’t go in for it, when everything else suits.’
“托尼，我见识过职业生涯和生活，”古比先生说，“我很少能或多或少地辨认出一个人。”但像这张这么老的牌，这么深刻，这么狡猾，这么秘密（虽然我不相信他曾经清醒过），我从来没有遇到过。现在，你知道，他一定已经很老了，而且他身上没有灵魂，而且据说他非常富有；但是，他却是一个非常富有的人。无论他是走私犯、收货人、无照当铺还是放债人——我在不同时期都认为他可能是这样——你对他有一定的了解可能会有所帮助。我不明白为什么当其他一切都适合的时候你不应该参与其中。

Mr. Jobling, Mr. Guppy, and Mr. Smallweed all lean their elbows on the table and their chins upon their hands, and look at the ceiling. After a time, they all drink, slowly lean back, put their hands in their pockets, and look at one another.
乔布林先生、孔雀鱼先生和斯莫威德先生都把胳膊肘靠在桌子上，用手撑着下巴，看着天花板。过了一会儿，他们都喝了酒，慢慢靠在椅背上，双手插在口袋里，面面相觑。

‘If I had the energy I once possessed, Tony!’ says Mr. Guppy with a sigh. ‘But there are chords in the human mind—‘
“托尼，如果我能拥有曾经拥有的能量就好了！”古比先生叹了口气说道。 “但是人类的心灵中有和弦——”

Expressing the remainder of the desolate sentiment in rum-andwater, Mr. Guppy concludes by resigning the adventure to Tony Jobling and informing him that during the vacation and while things are slack, his purse, ‘as far as three or four or even five pound goes,’ will be at his disposal. ‘For never shall it be said,’ Mr. Guppy adds with emphasis, ‘that William Guppy turned his back upon his friend!’
古比先生用朗姆酒和水表达了剩余的荒凉情绪，最后将冒险任务交给了托尼·乔布林，并告诉他，在假期期间，当事情不景气时，他的钱包“最多三、四甚至五英镑”去”将由他支配。 “永远不能说，”顾比先生强调道，“威廉·顾比背弃了他的朋友！”

The latter part of the proposal is so directly to the purpose that Mr. Jobling says with emotion, ‘Guppy, my trump, your fist!’ Mr. Guppy presents it, saying, ‘Jobling, my boy, there it is!’ Mr. Jobling returns, ‘Guppy, we have been pals now for some years!’ Mr. Guppy replies, ‘Jobling, we have.’
提议的后半部分是如此直接地达到了目的，以至于乔布林先生激动地说：“古比，我的王牌，你的拳头！”古比先生展示了它，说：“乔布林，我的孩子，就是它！”乔布林回来了，“古比，我们已经成为好朋友好几年了！”古比先生回答道，“乔布林，我们已经是好朋友了。”

They then shake hands, and Mr. Jobling adds in a feeling manner, ‘Thank you, Guppy, I don’t know but what I WILL take another glass for old acquaintance sake.’
然后他们握手，乔布林先生感性地补充道：“谢谢你，古比，我不知道，但看在老相识的份上，我愿意再喝一杯。”

‘Krook’s last lodger died there,’ observes Mr. Guppy in an incidental way.
“克鲁克的最后一位房客死在那里，”古皮先生顺便说道。

‘Did he though!’ says Mr. Jobling.
“他确实这么做了！”乔布林先生说道。

‘There was a verdict. Accidental death. You don’t mind that?’
‘有一个判决。意外死亡。你不介意吗？

‘No,’ says Mr. Jobling, ‘I don’t mind it; but he might as well have died somewhere else. It’s devilish odd that he need go and die at MY place!’ Mr. Jobling quite resents this liberty, several times returning to it with such remarks as, ‘There are places enough to die in, I should think!’ or, ‘He wouldn’t have liked my dying at HIS place, I dare say!’
“不，”乔布林先生说，“我不介意；我不介意。”但他也可能死在别的地方了。他需要去我的地方死，这真是太奇怪了！”乔布林先生非常憎恨这种自由，他多次回到这种自由，并说了这样的话，“我认为，有足够的地方可以死！”或者，“他我敢说，他不会喜欢我死在他的地方！

However, the compact being virtually made, Mr. Guppy proposes to dispatch the trusty Smallweed to ascertain if Mr. Krook is at home, as in that case they may complete the negotiation without delay. Mr. Jobling approving, Smallweed puts himself under the tall hat and conveys it out of the dining-rooms in the Guppy manner. He soon returns with the intelligence that Mr. Krook is at home and that he has seen him through the shop-door, sitting in the back premises, sleeping ‘like one o’clock.’
然而，契约实际上已达成，古比先生建议派遣值得信赖的斯莫威德去查明克鲁克先生是否在家，这样他们就可以立即完成谈判。乔布林先生表示赞同，斯莫威德把自己戴在高高的帽子下面，并以孔雀鱼的方式把它带出了餐厅。很快他就回来了，并得知克鲁克先生在家，而且他从商店门口看到他坐在后面的房子里，睡得“好像凌晨一点”。

‘Then I’ll pay,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘and we’ll go and see him. Small, what will it be?’
“那我就付钱，”古比先生说，“然后我们就去看他。”小，会是什么？

Mr. Smallweed, compelling the attendance of the waitress with one hitch of his eyelash, instantly replies as follows: ‘Four veals and hams is three, and four potatoes is three and four, and one summer cabbage is three and six, and three marrows is four and six, and six breads is five, and three Cheshires is five and three, and four half-pints of half-and-half is six and three, and four small rums is eight and three, and three Pollys is eight and six. Eight and six in half a sovereign, Polly, and eighteenpence out!’
斯莫威德先生用睫毛一拉，强迫女服务员就座，立即回答如下：“四块小牛肉和火腿是三，四个土豆是三和四，一棵夏季卷心菜是三和六，三颗骨髓是四加六，六个面包是五，三个柴郡是五加三，四品脱半品脱半是六加三，四杯小朗姆酒是八加三，三个波利是八加三。六。八又六半英镑，波莉，十八便士！

Not at all excited by these stupendous calculations, Smallweed dismisses his friends with a cool nod and remains behind to take a little admiring notice of Polly, as opportunity may serve, and to read the daily papers, which are so very large in proportion to himself, shorn of his hat, that when he holds up the Times to run his eye over the columns, he seems to have retired for the night and to have disappeared under the bedclothes.
斯莫威德对这些惊人的计算一点也不兴奋，他冷静地点点头，打发他的朋友们离开，然后留下来，一有机会就对波莉稍加钦佩，并阅读日报，这些报纸与他的比例太大了摘下帽子后，当他举起《泰晤士报》，目光扫过柱子时，他似乎已经休息了一晚，消失在床单下。

Mr. Guppy and Mr. Jobling repair to the rag and bottle shop, where they find Krook still sleeping like one o’clock, that is to say, breathing stertorously with his chin upon his breast and quite insensible to any external sounds or even to gentle shaking. On the table beside him, among the usual lumber, stand an empty ginbottle and a glass. The unwholesome air is so stained with this liquor that even the green eyes of the cat upon her shelf, as they open and shut and glimmer on the visitors, look drunk.
古比先生和乔布林先生回到破布和瓶子店，在那里他们发现克鲁克仍然睡得像一点钟一样，也就是说，他的下巴靠在胸前，喘着粗气，对任何外部声音都没有感觉，甚至对任何声音都没有感觉。轻轻摇晃。他旁边的桌子上，在普通的木材中间，放着一个空杜松子酒瓶和一个玻璃杯。不健康的空气被这种酒污染得如此之深，甚至连架子上那只猫的绿眼睛，当它们打开、关闭并在访客身上闪烁时，看起来都醉了。

‘Hold up here!’ says Mr. Guppy, giving the relaxed figure of the old man another shake. ‘Mr. Krook! Halloa, sir!’
“站住！”古皮先生说，又摇晃了老人轻松的身躯。 '先生。骗子！你好，先生！

But it would seem as easy to wake a bundle of old clothes with a spirituous heat smouldering in it. ‘Did you ever see such a stupor as he falls into, between drink and sleep?’ says Mr. Guppy.
但唤醒一捆里面闷烧着精神热气的旧衣服似乎很容易。 “你见过他在喝酒和睡觉之间陷入这样的昏迷状态吗？”古皮先生说。

‘If this is his regular sleep,’ returns Jobling, rather alarmed, ‘it’ll last a long time one of these days, I am thinking.’
“如果这是他的常规睡眠，”乔布林相当惊慌地回答道，“我想，这些天它会持续很长时间。”

‘It’s always more like a fit than a nap,’ says Mr. Guppy, shaking him again. ‘Halloa, your lordship! Why, he might be robbed fifty times over! Open your eyes!’
“这总是更像是一阵痉挛，而不是小睡，”古皮先生说道，再次摇晃着他。 ‘哈喽，陛下！哎呀，他可能会被抢劫五十次！张开你的眼睛！'

After much ado, he opens them, but without appearing to see his visitors or any other objects. Though he crosses one leg on another, and folds his hands, and several times closes and opens his parched lips, he seems to all intents and purposes as insensible as before.
经过一番费力之后，他打开了它们，但似乎没有看到他的访客或任何其他物体。尽管他把一条腿交叉在另一条腿上，双手合十，干裂的嘴唇好几次合上又张开，但他似乎和以前一样麻木不仁。

‘He is alive, at any rate,’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘How are you, my Lord Chancellor. I have brought a friend of mine, sir, on a little matter of business.’
“无论如何，他还活着，”古比先生说。 ‘你好吗，大法官。先生，我带来了我的一位朋友，有一点生意上的事。

The old man still sits, often smacking his dry lips without the least consciousness. After some minutes he makes an attempt to rise. They help him up, and he staggers against the wall and stares at them.
老人依然坐着，时常无意识地咂着干燥的嘴唇。几分钟后，他尝试站起来。他们把他扶了起来，他摇摇晃晃地靠在墙上，盯着他们。

‘How do you do, Mr. Krook?’ says Mr. Guppy in some discomfiture. ‘How do you do, sir? You are looking charming, Mr. Krook. I hope you are pretty well?’
“克鲁克先生，你好吗？”古比先生有些不安地说道。 ‘你好吗，先生？你看起来很迷人，克鲁克先生。我希望你一切都好？

The old man, in aiming a purposeless blow at Mr. Guppy, or at nothing, feebly swings himself round and comes with his face against the wall. So he remains for a minute or two, heaped up against it, and then staggers down the shop to the front door. The air, the movement in the court, the lapse of time, or the combination of these things recovers him. He comes back pretty steadily, adjusting his fur cap on his head and looking keenly at them.
老人无意中向孔雀先生打了一拳，或者毫无目的，无力地转过身来，脸贴在墙上。于是他靠在门上停留了一两分钟，然后摇摇晃晃地沿着商店走到前门。空气、球场上的动静、时间的流逝，或者这些因素的结合让他恢复了过来。他稳稳地回来了，调整了一下头上的皮帽，目光敏锐地看着他们。

‘Your servant, gentlemen; I’ve been dozing. Hi! I am hard to wake, odd times.’
“你们的仆人，先生们；我一直在打瞌睡。你好！我很难醒来，奇怪的时候。

‘Rather so, indeed, sir,’ responds Mr. Guppy.
“确实如此，先生，”古比先生回答道。

‘What? You’ve been a-trying to do it, have you?’ says the suspicious Krook.
'什么？你一直在尝试这样做，是吗？”多疑的克鲁克说道。

‘Only a little,’ Mr. Guppy explains.
“只有一点点，”古比先生解释道。

The old man’s eye resting on the empty bottle, he takes it up, examines it, and slowly tilts it upside down.
老者的目光停留在空瓶子上，他拿起它看了看，然后慢慢地将它倒过来。

‘I say!’ he cries like the hobgoblin in the story. ‘Somebody’s been making free here!’
“我说！”他像故事中的妖精一样哭喊着。 “有人在这里释放了自由！”

‘I assure you we found it so,’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘Would you allow me to get it filled for you?’
“我向你保证，我们发现确实如此，”古皮先生说。 “你能允许我帮你把它填满吗？”

‘Yes, certainly I would!’ cries Krook in high glee. ‘Certainly I would! Don’t mention it! Get it filled next door—Sol’s Arms—the Lord Chancellor’s fourteenpenny. Bless you, they know ME!’
“是的，我当然愿意！”克鲁克高兴地喊道。 “我当然愿意！别提了！把隔壁——索尔的武器——大法官的十四便士装满。祝福你，他们认识我！

He so presses the empty bottle upon Mr. Guppy that that gentleman, with a nod to his friend, accepts the trust and hurries out and hurries in again with the bottle filled. The old man receives it in his arms like a beloved grandchild and pats it tenderly.
他把空瓶子按在孔雀先生身上，孔雀先生向他的朋友点了点头，接受了他的信任，带着装满了瓶子的瓶子匆匆出去又匆匆进来。老人像对待心爱的孙子一样将它抱在怀里，温柔地拍着。

‘But, I say,’ he whispers, with his eyes screwed up, after tasting it, ‘this ain’t the Lord Chancellor’s fourteenpenny. This is eighteenpenny!’
“但是，我说，”尝完之后，他眯起眼睛低声说道，“这不是大法官的十四便士。”这是十八便士！

‘I thought you might like that better,’ says Mr. Guppy.
“我想你可能会更喜欢这个，”古比先生说。

‘You’re a nobleman, sir,’ returns Krook with another taste, and his hot breath seems to come towards them like a flame. ‘You’re a baron of the land.’
“您是一位贵族，先生。”克鲁克带着另一种味道回答道，他炽热的呼吸似乎像火焰一样向他们袭来。 “你是这片土地的男爵。”

Taking advantage of this auspicious moment, Mr. Guppy presents his friend under the impromptu name of Mr. Weevle and states the object of their visit. Krook, with his bottle under his arm (he never gets beyond a certain point of either drunkenness or sobriety), takes time to survey his proposed lodger and seems to approve of him. ‘You’d like to see the room, young man?’ he says. ‘Ah! It’s a good room! Been whitewashed. Been cleaned down with soft soap and soda. Hi! It’s worth twice the rent, letting alone my company when you want it and such a cat to keep the mice away.’
趁着这个吉祥的时刻，古比先生以威弗勒先生的即兴名字介绍了他的朋友，并说明了他们来访的目的。克鲁克腋下夹着酒瓶（他从来没有超过醉酒或清醒的程度），花时间审视他提议的房客，似乎很认可他。 “年轻人，你想看看这个房间吗？”他说。 '啊！这是一个好房间！被洗白了用软肥皂和苏打水清洗干净。你好！它值双倍的租金，更不用说你想要的时候还有我的陪伴，还有这样一只可以驱赶老鼠的猫。”

Commending the room after this manner, the old man takes them upstairs, where indeed they do find it cleaner than it used to be and also containing some old articles of furniture which he has dug up from his inexhaustible stores. The terms are easily concluded— for the Lord Chancellor cannot be hard on Mr. Guppy, associated as he is with Kenge and Carboy, Jarndyce and Jarndyce, and other famous claims on his professional consideration—and it is agreed that Mr. Weevle shall take possession on the morrow. Mr. Weevle and Mr. Guppy then repair to Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street, where the personal introduction of the former to Mr. Snagsby is effected and (more important) the vote and interest of Mrs. Snagsby are secured. They then report progress to the eminent Smallweed, waiting at the office in his tall hat for that purpose, and separate, Mr. Guppy explaining that he would terminate his little entertainment by standing treat at the play but that there are chords in the human mind which would render it a hollow mockery.
老人这样称赞了这个房间，然后带他们上了楼，他们确实发现这里比以前干净了，而且还放着一些他从取之不尽用之不竭的商店里挖出来的旧家具。条款很容易就达成了——因为大法官不能对古比先生太严厉，因为他与肯格和卡博伊、贾迪斯和贾迪斯以及其他基于他的职业考虑的著名主张有联系——并且同意韦夫勒先生应接受明天占有。然后，韦夫勒先生和古皮先生前往库西特街的库克法院，在那里，韦夫勒先生向斯纳格斯比先生进行了个人介绍，并且（更重要的是）斯纳格斯比夫人的投票和利益得到了保障。然后，他们向著名的斯莫尔韦德报告进展情况，为此目的，他戴着高帽子在办公室等候，然后分开，古比先生解释说，他将通过在戏剧中站立招待来结束他的小娱乐活动，但人类的头脑中有和弦这将使它成为空洞的嘲弄。

On the morrow, in the dusk of evening, Mr. Weevle modestly appears at Krook’s, by no means incommoded with luggage, and establishes himself in his new lodging, where the two eyes in the shutters stare at him in his sleep, as if they were full of wonder. On the following day Mr. Weevle, who is a handy good-for-nothing kind of young fellow, borrows a needle and thread of Miss Flite and a hammer of his landlord and goes to work devising apologies for window-curtains, and knocking up apologies for shelves, and hanging up his two teacups, milkpot, and crockery sundries on a pennyworth of little hooks, like a shipwrecked sailor making the best of it.
第二天，黄昏时分，韦弗勒先生谦虚地出现在克鲁克家，行李一点也不多，并在他的新住所安顿下来，百叶窗里的两只眼睛在睡梦中盯着他，仿佛它们在注视着他。都充满了惊奇。第二天，威夫勒先生这个手巧的废物年轻人，向弗利特小姐借了一根针线，向房东借了一把锤子，去上班，为窗帘设计道歉，并敲门。为架子道歉，把他的两个茶杯、奶壶和陶器杂物挂在价值一便士的小挂钩上，就像一个遭遇海难的水手在充分利用它。

But what Mr. Weevle prizes most of all his few possessions (next after his light whiskers, for which he has an attachment that only whiskers can awaken in the breast of man) is a choice collection of copper-plate impressions from that truly national work The Divinities of Albion, or Galaxy Gallery of British Beauty, representing ladies of title and fashion in every variety of smirk that art, combined with capital, is capable of producing. With these magnificent portraits, unworthily confined in a band-box during his seclusion among the market-gardens, he decorates his apartment; and as the Galaxy Gallery of British Beauty wears every variety of fancy dress, plays every variety of musical instrument, fondles every variety of dog, ogles every variety of prospect, and is backed up by every variety of flower-pot and balustrade, the result is very imposing.
但韦夫勒先生最珍视的，是他为数不多的几件财产（其次是他的浅色胡须，因为他有一种只有胡须才能在人类胸中唤醒的依恋），是从这部真正的民族作品中精选出来的铜版印记。阿尔比恩的神灵，或英国美丽的银河画廊，代表了艺术与资本相结合能够产生的各种微笑中的名流和时尚女士。当他隐居在市场花园中时，他用这些宏伟的肖像画来装饰他的公寓，这些肖像画不合时宜地被限制在一个带盒里。英国美女银河画廊穿着各种各样的化装，演奏着各种各样的乐器，抚摸着各种各样的狗，注视着各种各样的景色，并有各种各样的花盆和栏杆作为支撑，结果非常有气势。

But fashion is Mr. Weevle’s, as it was Tony Jobling’s, weakness. To borrow yesterday’s paper from the Sol’s Arms of an evening and read about the brilliant and distinguished meteors that are shooting across the fashionable sky in every direction is unspeakable consolation to him. To know what member of what brilliant and distinguished circle accomplished the brilliant and distinguished feat of joining it yesterday or contemplates the no less brilliant and distinguished feat of leaving it to-morrow gives him a thrill of joy. To be informed what the Galaxy Gallery of British Beauty is about, and means to be about, and what Galaxy marriages are on the tapis, and what Galaxy rumours are in circulation, is to become acquainted with the most glorious destinies of mankind. Mr. Weevle reverts from this intelligence to the Galaxy portraits implicated, and seems to know the originals, and to be known of them.
但时尚是韦夫勒先生的弱点，正如托尼·乔布林的弱点一样。借用昨天晚上《索尔之臂》的报纸，读到从各个方向划过时尚天空的灿烂而杰出的流星，对他来说是难以言喻的安慰。知道哪个辉煌而杰出的圈子的成员昨天完成了加入该圈子的辉煌和杰出的壮举，或者考虑明天离开这个圈子的同样辉煌和杰出的壮举，这让他感到一阵喜悦。了解银河英国美人画廊的主题和意义、塔皮斯上的银河婚姻以及流传的银河谣言，就是了解人类最光荣的命运。韦夫勒先生从这一情报回到了所涉及的银河肖像，似乎知道原件，并且知道它们。

For the rest he is a quiet lodger, full of handy shifts and devices as before mentioned, able to cook and clean for himself as well as to carpenter, and developing social inclinations after the shades of evening have fallen on the court. At those times, when he is not visited by Mr. Guppy or by a small light in his likeness quenched in a dark hat, he comes out of his dull room—where he has inherited the deal wilderness of desk bespattered with a rain of ink—and talks to Krook or is ‘very free,’ as they call it in the court, commendingly, with any one disposed for conversation. Wherefore, Mrs. Piper, who leads the court, is impelled to offer two remarks to Mrs. Perkins: firstly, that if her Johnny was to have whiskers, she could wish ‘em to be identically like that young man’s; and secondly, ‘Mark my words, Mrs. Perkins, ma’am, and don’t you be surprised, Lord bless you, if that young man comes in at last for old Krook’s money!’
除此之外，他是一个安静的房客，像前面提到的那样，充满了方便的轮班和设备，能够为自己做饭和打扫，也能做木匠，并在夜幕降临球场后培养社交倾向。在那些时候，当孔雀先生没有来拜访他，或者没有他的肖像在黑帽子里熄灭的小光时，他就会从他沉闷的房间里走出来——在那里，他继承了沾满墨水雨的办公桌的荒野。 ——并与克鲁克交谈，或者正如他们在法庭上所说的那样，与任何愿意交谈的人都“非常自由”。因此，法庭庭长派珀夫人不得不向珀金斯夫人提出两点意见：第一，如果她的约翰尼有胡子，她希望它们和那个年轻人的胡子一模一样；其次，“记住我的话，帕金斯太太，女士，如果那个年轻人最终为了老克鲁克的钱而来，你不要感到惊讶，上帝保佑你！”

CHAPTER XXI
第二十一章


The Smallweed Family
小杂草家族

In a rather ill-favoured and ill-savoured neighbourhood, though one of its rising grounds bears the name of Mount Pleasant, the Elfin Smallweed, christened Bartholomew and known on the domestic hearth as Bart, passes that limited portion of his time on which the office and its contingencies have no claim. He dwells in a little narrow street, always solitary, shady, and sad, closely bricked in on all sides like a tomb, but where there yet lingers the stump of an old forest tree whose flavour is about as fresh and natural as the Smallweed smack of youth.
在一个相当不受欢迎和令人厌恶的社区里，尽管其中一处高地的名字叫芒特普莱森特，小精灵小草，被洗礼为巴塞洛缪，在家庭壁炉旁被称为巴特，他度过了他有限的一段时间，办公室及其意外事件没有索赔权。他住在一条狭窄的小街上，总是孤独、阴暗、悲伤，四面都用砖砌得严严实实，像一座坟墓，但那里还徘徊着一棵老树的树桩，它的味道就像小草的味道一样清新自然。的青春。

There has been only one child in the Smallweed family for several generations. Little old men and women there have been, but no child, until Mr. Smallweed’s grandmother, now living, became weak in her intellect and fell (for the first time) into a childish state. With such infantine graces as a total want of observation, memory, understanding, and interest, and an eternal disposition to fall asleep over the fire and into it, Mr. Smallweed’s grandmother has undoubtedly brightened the family.
Smallweed家族几代以来都只有一个孩子。那里有小老男人和小女人，但没有孩子，直到斯莫尔威德先生现在还活着的祖母变得智力低下，并（第一次）陷入幼稚的状态。斯莫威德先生的祖母有着婴儿般的优雅，完全缺乏观察力、记忆力、理解力和兴趣，而且总是喜欢在火边和火上睡着，毫无疑问，她给这个家庭带来了欢乐。

Mr. Smallweed’s grandfather is likewise of the party. He is in a helpless condition as to his lower, and nearly so as to his upper, limbs, but his mind is unimpaired. It holds, as well as it ever held, the first four rules of arithmetic and a certain small collection of the hardest facts. In respect of ideality, reverence, wonder, and other such phrenological attributes, it is no worse off than it used to be. Everything that Mr. Smallweed’s grandfather ever put away in his mind was a grub at first, and is a grub at last. In all his life he has never bred a single butterfly.
斯莫尔威德先生的祖父同样是该党的一员。他的下肢和上肢几乎都处于无助的状态，但他的精神没有受到损害。它一如既往地坚持着算术的前四个规则和一小部分最难的事实。在理想、敬畏、惊奇和其他颅相属性方面，它并不比以前更糟。斯莫尔威德先生的祖父在他的脑海中所存的一切，最初都是蛴螬，最后也是蛴螬。他一生中从未养育过一只蝴蝶。

The father of this pleasant grandfather, of the neighbourhood of Mount Pleasant, was a horny-skinned, two-legged, money-getting species of spider who spun webs to catch unwary flies and retired into holes until they were entrapped. The name of this old pagan’s god was Compound Interest. He lived for it, married it, died of it. Meeting with a heavy loss in an honest little enterprise in which all the loss was intended to have been on the other side, he broke something—something necessary to his existence, therefore it couldn’t have been his heart—and made an end of his career. As his character was not good, and he had been bred at a charity school in a complete course, according to question and answer, of those ancient people the Amorites and Hittites, he was frequently quoted as an example of the failure of education.
这位和蔼可亲的祖父住在芒特普莱森特附近，他的父亲是一种皮肤角质、两条腿、能赚钱的蜘蛛，它们会结网捕捉粗心的苍蝇，然后退回洞里，直到它们被困住。这位古老异教徒的神的名字是复利。他为此而生，与之结婚，并为此而死。一家诚实的小企业遭受了重大损失，所有的损失都应该在另一方，他打破了一些东西——一些对他的存在来说是必要的东西，因此它不可能是他的心——并结束了他的事业。由于他的性格不好，而且他是在一所慈善学校接受了古代亚摩利人和赫梯人的完整课程的教育，因此他经常被引用为教育失败的例子。

His spirit shone through his son, to whom he had always preached of ‘going out’ early in life and whom he made a clerk in a sharp scrivener’s office at twelve years old. There the young gentleman improved his mind, which was of a lean and anxious character, and developing the family gifts, gradually elevated himself into the discounting profession. Going out early in life and marrying late, as his father had done before him, he too begat a lean and anxiousminded son, who in his turn, going out early in life and marrying late, became the father of Bartholomew and Judith Smallweed, twins. During the whole time consumed in the slow growth of this family tree, the house of Smallweed, always early to go out and late to marry, has strengthened itself in its practical character, has discarded all amusements, discountenanced all story-books, fairytales, fictions, and fables, and banished all levities whatsoever. Hence the gratifying fact that it has had no child born to it and that the complete little men and women whom it has produced have been observed to bear a likeness to old monkeys with something depressing on their minds.
他的精神在他的儿子身上熠熠生辉，他从小就一直向他宣扬“走出去”，并在他十二岁时就让他在一家精明的书记员办公室当了一名职员。在那里，这位年轻的绅士改善了他原本瘦弱、焦虑的性格，并培养了家庭天赋，逐渐将自己提升到了折扣行业。正如他父亲在他之前所做的那样，他早出晚婚，也生了一个瘦弱而焦虑的儿子，而他的儿子也早出晚婚，成为双胞胎巴塞洛缪和朱迪思·斯莫威德的父亲。 。在这个家谱慢慢成长的整个过程中，总是早出晚婚的斯莫威德家族增强了自己的实用性，抛弃了一切娱乐，贬低了所有故事书、童话，小说和寓言，并消除了一切轻浮的内容。因此，令人欣慰的是，它没有生下任何孩子，而且人们观察到它所产下的完整的小男人和女人都像老猴子，心里有些压抑。

At the present time, in the dark little parlour certain feet below the level of the street—a grim, hard, uncouth parlour, only ornamented with the coarsest of baize table-covers, and the hardest of sheet-iron tea-trays, and offering in its decorative character no bad allegorical representation of Grandfather Smallweed’s mind— seated in two black horsehair porter’s chairs, one on each side of the fire-place, the superannuated Mr. and Mrs. Smallweed while away the rosy hours. On the stove are a couple of trivets for the pots and kettles which it is Grandfather Smallweed’s usual occupation to watch, and projecting from the chimney-piece between them is a sort of brass gallows for roasting, which he also superintends when it is in action. Under the venerable Mr. Smallweed’s seat and guarded by his spindle legs is a drawer in his chair, reported to contain property to a fabulous amount. Beside him is a spare cushion with which he is always provided in order that he may have something to throw at the venerable partner of his respected age whenever she makes an allusion to money—a subject on which he is particularly sensitive.
现在，在离街道几英尺远的黑暗小客厅里——一间阴森、坚硬、粗俗的客厅，只装饰着最粗糙的粗呢桌布和最坚硬的铁皮茶盘，它的装饰特征很好地寓言地表现了斯莫威德祖父的思想——年迈的斯莫威德先生和夫人坐在两张黑色马毛搬运工的椅子上，壁炉两侧各一张，消磨着美好的时光。炉子上有几个放锅和水壶的三脚架，斯莫威德祖父通常会负责观察，从三脚架之间的烟囱伸出来的是一种用于烘烤的黄铜绞架，在工作时他也会监督它。 。在受人尊敬的斯莫威德先生的座位下，椅子上有一个抽屉，由他的纺锤腿守护着，据说里面装着数量惊人的财产。他旁边有一个备用垫子，他总是拿着这个垫子，以便每当他尊敬的同龄人提到金钱时，他就可以向她扔一些东西——这是他特别敏感的话题。

‘And where’s Bart?’ Grandfather Smallweed inquires of Judy, Bart’s twin sister.
“巴特在哪里？”斯莫威德祖父询问巴特的双胞胎妹妹朱迪。

‘He an’t come in yet,’ says Judy.
“他还没进来，”朱迪说。

‘It’s his tea-time, isn’t it?’
“现在是他的下午茶时间，不是吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘How much do you mean to say it wants then?’
“那么你的意思是说它想要多少钱？”

‘Ten minutes.’
'10分钟。'

‘Hey?’
'嘿？'

‘Ten minutes.’ (Loud on the part of Judy.)
“十分钟。”（朱迪大声说道。）

‘Ho!’ says Grandfather Smallweed. ‘Ten minutes.’
“嗬！”斯莫威德爷爷说道。 '10分钟。'

Grandmother Smallweed, who has been mumbling and shaking her head at the trivets, hearing figures mentioned, connects them with money and screeches like a horrible old parrot without any plumage, ‘Ten ten-pound notes!’
祖母斯莫威德一直对着三脚架咕哝着，在听到数字时摇着头，她把它们与金钱联系起来，像一只没有羽毛的可怕的老鹦鹉一样尖叫，“十张十英镑的钞票！”

Grandfather Smallweed immediately throws the cushion at her.
斯莫威德爷爷立即把垫子扔给她。

‘Drat you, be quiet!’ says the good old man.
“该死的，安静点！”好心的老人说道。

The effect of this act of jaculation is twofold. It not only doubles up Mrs. Smallweed’s head against the side of her porter’s chair and causes her to present, when extricated by her granddaughter, a highly unbecoming state of cap, but the necessary exertion recoils on Mr. Smallweed himself, whom it throws back into HIS porter’s chair like a broken puppet. The excellent old gentleman being at these times a mere clothes-bag with a black skull-cap on the top of it, does not present a very animated appearance until he has undergone the two operations at the hands of his granddaughter of being shaken up like a great bottle and poked and punched like a great bolster. Some indication of a neck being developed in him by these means, he and the sharer of his life’s evening again fronting one another in their two porter’s chairs, like a couple of sentinels long forgotten on their post by the Black Serjeant, Death.
这种射精行为的效果是双重的。这不仅使斯莫尔韦德太太的头靠在搬运工椅子的一侧，导致她在被孙女解救时呈现出一种非常不合适的帽子状态，而且必要的用力也会对斯莫尔韦德先生本人产生反作用力，从而使他向后退去。像一个破碎的木偶一样坐在他的搬运工的椅子上。这位优秀的老先生此时只是一个衣袋，上面戴着一顶黑色无边便帽，直到经历了孙女手中的两次手术后，才呈现出非常生动的样子。一个大瓶子，像一个大枕垫一样被戳和打。一些迹象表明，通过这些方式，他的脖子正在发育，他和他生命之夜的分享者再次坐在他们的两张门房椅子上，就像一对早已被黑色警官死亡遗忘在岗位上的哨兵。

Judy the twin is worthy company for these associates. She is so indubitably sister to Mr. Smallweed the younger that the two kneaded into one would hardly make a young person of average proportions, while she so happily exemplifies the before-mentioned family likeness to the monkey tribe that attired in a spangled robe and cap she might walk about the table-land on the top of a barrelorgan without exciting much remark as an unusual specimen. Under existing circumstances, however, she is dressed in a plain, spare gown of brown stuff.
双胞胎朱迪是这些同事值得陪伴的人。毫无疑问，她是小斯莫尔威德先生的妹妹，以至于两人揉合在一起很难成为一个中等身材的年轻人，而她则很高兴地体现了前面提到的穿着闪亮长袍和帽子的猴子部落的家族相似性。她可能会坐在桶风琴的顶部在高原上行走，而不会因为一个不寻常的标本而引起太多激动人心的评论。然而，在目前的情况下，她穿着一件朴素、备用的棕色长袍。

Judy never owned a doll, never heard of Cinderella, never played at any game. She once or twice fell into children’s company when she was about ten years old, but the children couldn’t get on with Judy, and Judy couldn’t get on with them. She seemed like an animal of another species, and there was instinctive repugnance on both sides. It is very doubtful whether Judy knows how to laugh. She has so rarely seen the thing done that the probabilities are strong the other way. Of anything like a youthful laugh, she certainly can have no conception. If she were to try one, she would find her teeth in her way, modelling that action of her face, as she has unconsciously modelled all its other expressions, on her pattern of sordid age. Such is Judy.
朱迪从未拥有过洋娃娃，从未听说过灰姑娘，也从未玩过任何游戏。她十岁左右的时候，曾有一两次陷入孩子们的陪伴，但孩子们与朱迪合不来，朱迪也与他们合不来。她看起来就像是另一个物种的动物，双方都有本能的厌恶。朱迪是否会笑很值得怀疑。她很少见过这种事，所以相反的可能性很大。对于青春的笑声这样的事情，她当然无法想象。如果她想尝试一下，她会发现她的牙齿挡住了她的路，模仿她脸上的动作，就像她无意识地模仿她肮脏的年龄模式的所有其他表情一样。朱迪就是这样。

And her twin brother couldn’t wind up a top for his life. He knows no more of Jack the Giant Killer or of Sinbad the Sailor than he knows of the people in the stars. He could as soon play at leapfrog or at cricket as change into a cricket or a frog himself. But he is so much the better off than his sister that on his narrow world of fact an opening has dawned into such broader regions as lie within the ken of Mr. Guppy. Hence his admiration and his emulation of that shining enchanter.
而她的双胞胎兄弟却未能达到人生巅峰。他对巨人杀手杰克和水手辛巴达的了解并不比他对星星中的人的了解更多。他既可以自己变成蟋蟀或青蛙，也可以玩蛙跳或板球。但他比他姐姐的境况要好得多，以至于在他狭隘的现实世界中，孔雀鱼先生的视野范围内的更广阔的领域已经出现了一个开口。因此他对那个闪耀的魔法师充满了钦佩和效仿。

Judy, with a gong-like clash and clatter, sets one of the sheetiron tea-trays on the table and arranges cups and saucers. The bread she puts on in an iron basket, and the butter (and not much of it) in a small pewter plate. Grandfather Smallweed looks hard after the tea as it is served out and asks Judy where the girl is.
朱迪发出锣声般的碰撞声，将一个铁皮茶盘放在桌子上，并摆好杯子和碟子。她把面包放在一个铁篮子里，把黄油（不多）放在一个小锡盘里。斯莫威德祖父认真地看着茶端上来，并问朱迪那个女孩在哪里。

‘Charley, do you mean?’ says Judy.
“查理，你是说吗？”朱迪说。

‘Hey?’ from Grandfather Smallweed.
“嘿？”来自斯莫威德祖父。

‘Charley, do you mean?’
“查理，你是说吗？”

This touches a spring in Grandmother Smallweed, who, chuckling as usual at the trivets, cries, ‘Over the water! Charley over the water, Charley over the water, over the water to Charley, Charley over the water, over the water to Charley!’ and becomes quite energetic about it. Grandfather looks at the cushion but has not sufficiently recovered his late exertion.
这触动了斯莫威德奶奶的心，她像往常一样对着三脚架咯咯笑，喊道：“在水面上！”查理在水面上，查理在水面上，在水面上到查理，查理在水面上，在水面上到查理！”并且变得非常有活力。祖父看着坐垫，但还没有完全恢复他迟来的体力。

‘Ha!’ he says when there is silence. ‘If that’s her name. She eats a deal. It would be better to allow her for her keep.’
“哈！”当一片寂静时他说道。 ‘如果那是她的名字的话。她吃了一笔交易。最好让她自己留下。

Judy, with her brother’s wink, shakes her head and purses up her mouth into no without saying it.
朱迪向她哥哥使了个眼色，摇摇头，抿起嘴，没有说出来。

‘No?’ returns the old man. ‘Why not?’
“没有？”老人回答道。 '为什么不？'

‘She’d want sixpence a day, and we can do it for less,’ says Judy.
“她每天想要六便士，我们可以花更少的钱，”朱迪说。

‘Sure?’
'当然？'

Judy answers with a nod of deepest meaning and calls, as she scrapes the butter on the loaf with every precaution against waste and cuts it into slices, ‘You, Charley, where are you?’ Timidly obedient to the summons, a little girl in a rough apron and a large bonnet, with her hands covered with soap and water and a scrubbing brush in one of them, appears, and curtsys.
朱迪意味深长地点了点头，边说边用一切预防措施把面包上的黄油刮掉，然后把它切成片，“你，查理，你在哪里？”一个小女孩胆怯地听从召唤，出现了一条粗糙的围裙和一顶大帽子，双手沾满了肥皂和水，其中一只手上拿着一把刷子，还行了屈膝礼。

‘What work are you about now?’ says Judy, making an ancient snap at her like a very sharp old beldame.
“你现在做什么工作？”朱迪问道，像一个非常尖刻的老贵妇一样对她发出古老的厉声。

‘I’m a-cleaning the upstairs back room, miss,’ replies Charley.
“我正在打扫楼上的后屋，小姐，”查理回答道。

‘Mind you do it thoroughly, and don’t loiter. Shirking won’t do for me. Make haste! Go along!’ cries Judy with a stamp upon the ground. ‘You girls are more trouble than you’re worth, by half.’
‘注意做事要彻底，不要闲逛。偷懒对我来说没有用。赶快！走吧！”朱迪大声喊道，并在地上踩了一个印记。 “你们这些女孩带来的麻烦比你们值得的还要多一半。”

On this severe matron, as she returns to her task of scraping the butter and cutting the bread, falls the shadow of her brother, looking in at the window. For whom, knife and loaf in hand, she opens the street-door.
当这位严厉的主妇继续刮黄油和切面包的任务时，她哥哥的影子落在了她的身上，她哥哥正朝窗户里看。她手里拿着刀和面包，为谁打开街门。

‘Aye, aye, Bart!’ says Grandfather Smallweed. ‘Here you are, hey?’
“是啊，是啊，巴特！”斯莫威德祖父说道。 “你在这儿，嘿？”

‘Here I am,’ says Bart.
“我在这里，”巴特说。

‘Been along with your friend again, Bart?’
“又和你的朋友在一起了吗，巴特？”

Small nods.
小小点头。

‘Dining at his expense, Bart?’
“巴特，吃饭要他出钱吗？”

Small nods again.
小小再次点头。

‘That’s right. Live at his expense as much as you can, and take warning by his foolish example. That’s the use of such a friend. The only use you can put him to,’ says the venerable sage.
'这是正确的。尽可能以他为代价生活，并以他愚蠢的榜样为戒。这就是有这样一个朋友的用处。这是你能利用他的唯一用途。”这位可敬的圣人说道。

His grandson, without receiving this good counsel as dutifully as he might, honours it with all such acceptance as may lie in a slight wink and a nod and takes a chair at the tea-table. The four old faces then hover over teacups like a company of ghastly cherubim, Mrs. Smallweed perpetually twitching her head and chattering at the trivets and Mr. Smallweed requiring to be repeatedly shaken up like a large black draught.
他的孙子虽然没有尽职尽责地接受这个好建议，但他只是轻轻地眨了眨眼，点了点头，就接受了它，然后在茶桌旁坐下来。然后，四张老面孔盘旋在茶杯上方，就像一群可怕的小天使一样，斯莫尔威德太太不断地抽搐着头，对着三脚架喋喋不休，而斯莫尔威德先生则需要像一股黑色的大风一样反复摇晃。

‘Yes, yes,’ says the good old gentleman, reverting to his lesson of wisdom. ‘That’s such advice as your father would have given you, Bart. You never saw your father. More’s the pity. He was my true son.’ Whether it is intended to be conveyed that he was particularly pleasant to look at, on that account, does not appear.
“是的，是的，”那位善良的老先生说道，又回到了他的智慧教训。 “这就是你父亲会给你的建议，巴特。你从未见过你的父亲。更多的是遗憾。他是我真正的儿子。”是否是为了表达他看起来特别讨人喜欢，因此，并没有出现。

‘He was my true son,’ repeats the old gentleman, folding his bread and butter on his knee, ‘a good accountant, and died fifteen years ago.’
“他是我真正的儿子，”老绅士重复道，把面包和黄油放在膝盖上，“一位优秀的会计师，十五年前去世了。”

Mrs. Smallweed, following her usual instinct, breaks out with ‘Fifteen hundred pound. Fifteen hundred pound in a black box, fifteen hundred pound locked up, fifteen hundred pound put away and hid!’ Her worthy husband, setting aside his bread and butter, immediately discharges the cushion at her, crushes her against the side of her chair, and falls back in his own, overpowered. His appearance, after visiting Mrs. Smallweed with one of these admonitions, is particularly impressive and not wholly prepossessing, firstly because the exertion generally twists his black skull-cap over one eye and gives him an air of goblin rakishness, secondly because he mutters violent imprecations against Mrs. Smallweed, and thirdly because the contrast between those powerful expressions and his powerless figure is suggestive of a baleful old malignant who would be very wicked if he could. All this, however, is so common in the Smallweed family circle that it produces no impression. The old gentleman is merely shaken and has his internal feathers beaten up, the cushion is restored to its usual place beside him, and the old lady, perhaps with her cap adjusted and perhaps not, is planted in her chair again, ready to be bowled down like a ninepin.
斯莫威德太太按照她一贯的本能，突然说出了“一千五百英镑”。一千五百英镑装在一个黑盒子里，一千五百英镑锁起来，一千五百英镑收起来藏起来！”她可敬的丈夫，把面包和黄油放在一边，立即把垫子扔给她，把她压在椅子的一边，然后又倒在自己的身上，被压倒了。在拜访斯莫威德夫人并提出其中一项警告后，他的外表特别令人印象深刻，但并不完全讨人喜欢，首先是因为这种努力通常会把他的黑色无边帽扭到一只眼睛上，给他一种妖精般的放荡气息，其次是因为他咕哝着暴力第三，因为那些强有力的表情和他无力的身材之间的对比让人想起一个恶毒的老恶棍，如果可以的话，他会非常邪恶。然而，这一切在 Smallweed 家族圈子里太常见了，以至于没有给人留下什么印象。老先生只是受到了震动，体内的羽毛被打碎了，坐垫又恢复到了他旁边原来的位置，而老太太，也许戴好了帽子，也许没有戴好，再次坐在椅子上，准备投球。像九柱球一样向下。

Some time elapses in the present instance before the old gentleman is sufficiently cool to resume his discourse, and even then he mixes it up with several edifying expletives addressed to the unconscious partner of his bosom, who holds communication with nothing on earth but the trivets. As thus: ‘If your father, Bart, had lived longer, he might have been worth a deal of money—you brimstone chatterer!—but just as he was beginning to build up the house that he had been making the foundations for, through many a year—you jade of a magpie, jackdaw, and poll-parrot, what do you mean!—he took ill and died of a low fever, always being a sparing and a spare man, fule been a good son, and I think I meant to have been one. But I wasn’t. I was a thundering bad son, that’s the long and the short of it, and never was a credit to anybody.’
在目前的情况下，过了一段时间，老绅士才冷静下来继续讲话，即便如此，他还是把它与几句对他怀里无意识的伴侣说的有启发性的脏话混在一起，后者除了三脚架之外与地球上没有任何东西进行交流。正如这样：“如果你的父亲巴特活得更久，他可能值很多钱——你这个硫磺喋喋不休的人！——但正当他开始建造他一直在打基础的房子时，通过多少年了——喜鹊、寒鸦、鹦鹉的玉石，你什么意思！——他得病了，发低烧死了，一向省吃俭用，真是个好儿子，而我我想我本来就是其中之一。但我不是。我是一个非常坏的儿子，总而言之，总而言之，我从来没有为任何人赢得荣誉。

‘Surprising!’ cries the old man.
“太惊讶了！”老人叫道。

‘However,’ Mr. George resumes, ‘the less said about it, the better now. Come! You know the agreement. Always a pipe out of the two months’ interest! (Bosh! It’s all correct. You needn’t be afraid to order the pipe. Here’s the new bill, and here’s the two months’ interest-money, and a devil-and-all of a scrape it is to get it together in my business.)’
“不过，”乔治先生继续说道，“现在越少说越好。”来！你知道这个协议。两个月的利息总是花光了！ （波什！都是对的。你不必害怕订购烟斗。这是新账单，这是两个月的利息，要在我的事。）'

Mr. George sits, with his arms folded, consuming the family and the parlour while Grandfather Smallweed is assisted by Judy to two black leathern cases out of a locked bureau, in one of which he secures the document he has just received, and from the other takes another similar document which hl of business care—I should like to throw a cat at you instead of a cushion, and I will too if you make such a confounded fool of yourself!—and your mother, who was a prudent woman as dry as a chip, just dwindled away like touchwood after you and Judy were born—you are an old pig. You are a brimstone pig. You’re a head of swine!’
乔治先生抱着双臂坐着，吃光了家人和客厅，而祖父斯莫威德则在朱迪的协助下，从锁着的办公桌里取出两个黑色皮箱，其中一个他把刚刚收到的文件放在其中，并且从其他人拿了另一份类似的文件，里面有商业关怀——我想向你扔一只猫而不是一个垫子，如果你做出如此愚蠢的傻事，我也会这么做！——还有你的母亲，她是一个谨慎的女人你和朱迪出生后，干得像木片一样，像触木一样逐渐消失——你是一头老猪。你是一头硫磺猪。你真是个猪头！

Judy, not interested in what she has often heard, begins to collect in a basin various tributary streams of tea, from the bottoms of cups and saucers and from the bottom of the teapot for the little charwoman’s evening meal. In like manner she gets together, in the iron bread-basket, as many outside fragments and worn-down heels of loaves as the rigid economy of the house has left in existence.
朱迪对她经常听到的东西不感兴趣，开始从茶杯、碟子的底部和茶壶的底部收集各种支流的茶流到盆里，作为小女佣的晚餐。她以同样的方式，把家里僵化的经济所留下的尽可能多的外部碎片和破旧的面包跟放在铁面包篮里。

‘But your father and me were partners, Bart,’ says the old gentleman, ‘and when I am gone, you and Judy will have all there is. It’s rare for you both that you went out early in life—Judy to the flower business, and you to the law. You won’t want to spend it. You’ll get your living without it, and put more to it. When I am gone, Judy will go back to the flower business and you’ll still stick to the law.’
“但是你的父亲和我是合伙人，巴特，”老绅士说道，“当我离开后，你和朱迪将拥有一切。”你们俩很早就出去了，这对你们来说是很少见的——朱迪从事花卉生意，而你则从事法律工作。你不会想花它的。没有它你也能过上好日子，而且还能投入更多。当我离开后，朱迪会回到花卉行业，而你仍然会遵守法律。

One might infer from Judy’s appearance that her business rather lay with the thorns than the flowers, but she has in her time been apprenticed to the art and mystery of artificial flower-making. A close observer might perhaps detect both in her eye and her brother’s, when their venerable grandsire anticipates his being gone, some little impatience to know when he may be going, and some resentful opinion that it is time he went.
人们可能会从朱迪的外表推断出，她的工作更多的是荆棘而不是鲜花，但她在她那个时代已经成为人造花制作艺术和神秘的学徒。当可敬的祖父预计他会离开时，细心的观察者也许会在她和她哥哥的眼中发现一些不耐烦，想知道他什么时候会离开，以及一些怨恨的意见，认为他是时候离开了。

‘Now, if everybody has done,’ says Judy, completing her preparations, ‘I’ll have that girl in to her tea. She would never leave off if she took it by herself in the kitchen.’
“现在，如果每个人都完成了，”朱迪说，完成她的准备工作，“我会让那个女孩去喝茶。”如果她一个人在厨房里拿着它，她就永远不会离开。

Charley is accordingly introduced, and under a heavy fire of eyes, sits down to her basin and a Druidical ruin of bread and butter. In the active superintendence of this young person, Judy Smallweed appears to attain a perfectly geological age and to date from the remotest periods. Her systematic manner of flying at her and pouncing on her, with or without pretence, whether or no, is wonderful, evincing an accomplishment in the art of girl-driving seldom reached by the oldest practitioners.
据此介绍了查理，在炽热的目光下，她坐在她的脸盆和德鲁伊面包和黄油的废墟旁。在这个年轻人的积极监督下，朱迪·斯莫威德似乎达到了完美的地质年龄，并且可以追溯到最遥远的时期。她系统地飞向她、扑向她，无论有没有伪装，无论是否有，都是精彩的，显示出最年长的从业者很少达到的女孩驾驶艺术的成就。

‘Now, don’t stare about you all the afternoon,’ cries Judy, shaking her head and stamping her foot as she happens to catch the glance which has been previously sounding the basin of tea, ‘but take your victuals and get back to your work.’
“现在，不要整个下午都盯着你看，”朱迪喊道，当她碰巧看到刚才敲响茶盆茶水声的目光时，她摇摇头，跺着脚，“带上你的食物，回去吧。”你的工作。'

‘Yes, miss,’ says Charley.
“是的，小姐，”查理说。

‘Don’t say yes,’ returns Miss Smallweed, ‘for I know what you girls are. Do it without saying it, and then I may begin to believe you.’
“别说‘是’，”斯莫威德小姐回答道，“因为我知道你们这些女孩是什么人。不说出来就去做，然后我就可以开始相信你了。

Charley swallows a great gulp of tea in token of submission and so disperses the Druidical ruins that Miss Smallweed charges her not to gormandize, which ‘in you girls,’ she observes, is disgusting. Charley might find some more difficulty in meeting her views on the general subject of girls but for a knock at the door.
查理喝了一大口茶以示屈服，并驱散了德鲁伊废墟，斯莫威德小姐要求她不要乱搞，她观察到，“你们这些女孩子们”的这种行为是令人作呕的。如果不是有人来敲门，查理可能会发现很难满足她对女孩这个普遍话题的看法。

‘See who it is, and don’t chew when you open it!’ cries Judy.
“看看是谁，打开它时不要咀嚼！”朱迪喊道。

The object of her attentions withdrawing for the purpose, Miss Smallweed takes that opportunity of jumbling the remainder of the bread and butter together and launching two or three dirty tea-cups into the ebb-tide of the basin of tea as a hint that she considers the eating and drinking terminated.
她的注意力集中在这个目的上，斯莫威德小姐趁这个机会把剩下的面包和黄油混在一起，然后把两三个脏茶杯扔进茶盆的退潮中，以此作为她认为的暗示。饮食停止了。

‘Now! Who is it, and what’s wanted?’ says the snappish Judy.
'现在！ “是谁？想要什么？”脾气暴躁的朱迪说道。

It is one Mr. George, it appears. Without other announcement or ceremony, Mr. George walks in.
看起来是一位乔治先生。没有其他公告或仪式，乔治先生就走了进来。

‘Whew!’ says Mr. George. ‘You are hot here. Always a fire, eh? Well! Perhaps you do right to get used to one.’ Mr. George makes the latter remark to himself as he nods to Grandfather Smallweed.
“哇！”乔治先生说。 ‘你这里很热。总是着火吧？出色地！也许你习惯了是对的。”乔治先生一边向斯莫威德爷爷点点头，一边自言自语道。

‘Ho! It’s you!’ cries the old gentleman. ‘How de do? How de do?’
‘嗬！是你！”老先生喊道。 ‘怎么办？怎么办？

‘Middling,’ replies Mr. George, taking a chair. ‘Your granddaughter I have had the honour of seeing before; my service to you, miss.’
“中等，”乔治先生回答道，坐到了椅子上。 “我以前有幸见过你的孙女；我为您服务，小姐。

‘This is my grandson,’ says Grandfather Smallweed. ‘You ha’n’t seen him before. He is in the law and not much at home.’
“这是我的孙子，”斯莫威德祖父说。 ‘你以前没见过他。他是在法律面前，不太在家里。”

‘My service to him, too! He is like his sister. He is very like his sister. He is devilish like his sister,’ says Mr. George, laying a great and not altogether complimentary stress on his last adjective.
“我也为他服务！他就像他的妹妹。他很像他的妹妹。他和他的妹妹一样邪恶。”乔治先生说道，他对最后一个形容词强调了很大的语气，但并不完全是恭维。

‘And how does the world use you, Mr. George?’ Grandfather Smallweed inquires, slowly rubbing his legs.
“乔治先生，这个世界是如何使用你的？”斯莫威德祖父问道，慢慢地揉着他的腿。

‘Pretty much as usual. Like a football.’
'和往常一样。就像足球一样。

He is a swarthy brown man of fifty, well made, and good looking, with crisp dark hair, bright eyes, and a broad chest. His sinewy and powerful hands, as sunburnt as his face, have evidently been used to a pretty rough life. What is curious about him is that he sits forward on his chair as if he were, from long habit, allowing space for some dress or accoutrements that he has altogether laid aside. His step too is measured and heavy and would go well with a weighty clash and jingle of spurs. He is close-shaved now, but his mouth is set as if his upper lip had been for years familiar with a great moustache; and his manner of occasionally laying the open palm of his broad brown hand upon it is to the same effect. Altogether one might guess Mr. George to have been a trooper once upon a time.
他是一个五十岁的黑皮肤男人，身材匀称，相貌英俊，有着清爽的黑发、明亮的眼睛和宽阔的胸膛。他那双有力而有力的双手，和他的脸一样被晒黑，显然已经习惯了相当艰苦的生活。令人好奇的是，他坐在椅子上，身体前倾，就好像他出于长期习惯，为一些他完全放在一边的衣服或装备留出空间。他的脚步也很稳重，很适合沉重的碰撞和马刺的叮当声。他现在胡子刮得很短，但他的嘴型就好像他的上唇已经长了很多年的大胡子一样。他偶尔将张开的棕色宽手放在上面的方式也达到了同样的效果。总而言之，人们可能会猜测乔治先生曾经是一名士兵。

A special contrast Mr. George makes to the Smallweed family. Trooper was never yet billeted upon a household more unlike him. It is a broadsword to an oyster-knife. His developed figure and their stunted forms, his large manner filling any amount of room and their little narrow pinched ways, his sounding voice and their sharp spare tones, are in the strongest and the strangest opposition. As he sits in the middle of the grim parlour, leaning a little forward, with his hands upon his thighs and his elbows squared, he looks as though, if he remained there long, he would absorb into himself the whole family and the whole four-roomed house, extra little back-kitchen and all.
乔治先生与斯莫威德家族形成了特殊的对比。特鲁珀从来没有住过一个与他如此不同的家庭。它是一把大刀和一把牡蛎刀。他发达的身材和他们发育不良的体形，他那充满任何空间的大举止和他们狭小的狭窄的方式，他响亮的声音和他们尖锐的闲适语调，都是最强烈和最奇怪的对立。当他坐在阴森的客厅中央时，身子稍微向前倾，双手放在大腿上，肘部呈方形，看上去，如果他在那里待得久一点，他就会把整个家庭和四个人都吸收进去。 -有房间的房子，额外的小后厨房等等。

‘Do you rub your legs to rub life into ‘em?’ he asks of Grandfather Smallweed after looking round the room.
“你会摩擦你的腿来给它们注入生命吗？”他环顾房间后问斯莫威德祖父。

‘Why, it’s partly a habit, Mr. George, and—yes—it partly helps the circulation,’ he replies.
“为什么，这部分是一种习惯，乔治先生，而且——是的——它部分有助于血液循环，”他回答道。

‘The cir-cu-la-tion!’ repeats Mr. George, folding his arms upon his chest and seeming to become two sizes larger. ‘Not much of that, I should think.’
“循环！”乔治先生重复道，双臂交叉在胸前，身体似乎变大了两号。 “我想，这并不多。”

‘Truly I’m old, Mr. George,’ says Grandfather Smallweed. ‘But I can carry my years. I’m older than HER,’ nodding at his wife, ‘and see what she is? You’re a brimstone chatterer!’ with a sudden revival of his late hostility.
“我确实老了，乔治先生，”斯莫威德祖父说。 “但我可以承受我的岁月。我比她大，”对他的妻子点点头，“看看她是什么样的人？你真是个喋喋不休的人！”他最近的敌意突然又回来了。

‘Unlucky old soul!’ says Mr. George, turning his head in that direction. ‘Don’t scold the old lady. Look at her here, with her poor cap half off her head and her poor hair all in a muddle. Hold up, ma’am. That’s better. There we are! Think of your mother, Mr. Smallweed,’ says Mr. George, coming back to his seat from assisting her, ‘if your wife an’t enough.’
“不幸的老灵魂！”乔治先生说着，把头转向那个方向。 ‘别骂老太太了。看看她，可怜的帽子半脱在头上，可怜的头发乱糟糟的。坚持住，女士。这样更好。我们到了！想想你的母亲，斯莫威德先生，”乔治先生帮完她回到座位上说道，“如果你的妻子还不够的话。

‘I suppose you were an excellent son, Mr. George?’ the old man hints with a leer.
“我想你是个出色的儿子，乔治先生？”老人斜视着暗示道。

The colour of Mr. George’s face rather deepens as he replies, ‘Why no. I wasn’t.’
乔治先生的脸色加深了，他回答道：“为什么不呢？”我不是。

‘I am astonished at it.’
“我对此感到惊讶。”

‘So am I. I ought to have hands to Mr. George, who twists it up for a pipelight. As the old man inspects, through his glasses, every up-stroke and down-stroke of both documents before he releases them from their leathern prison, and as he counts the money three times over and requires Judy to say every word she utters at least twice, and is as tremulously slow of speech and action as it is possible to be, this business is a long time in progress. When it is quite concluded, and not before, he disengages his ravenous eyes and fingers from it and answers Mr. George’s last remark by saying, ‘Afraid to order the pipe? We are not so mercenary as that, sir. Judy, see directly to the pipe and the glass of cold brandy-and-water for Mr. George.’
“我也是。我应该把手伸向乔治先生，他把它扭成一根烟斗。”当老人通过眼镜检查两份文件的每一个上下笔划时，他将它们从皮革监狱中释放出来，当他将钱数了三遍并要求朱迪至少说出她所说的每一个字时两次，并且言语和行动都尽可能缓慢，这项业务进行了很长时间。当它完全结束时，而不是之前，他将贪婪的眼睛和手指从烟斗上移开，并回答乔治先生的最后一句话：“害怕点烟斗？”先生，我们不是那么唯利是图。朱迪，直接看向乔治先生的管道和一杯冷白兰地和水。

The sportive twins, who have been looking straight before them all this time except when they have been engrossed by the black leathern cases, retire together, generally disdainful of the visitor, but leaving him to the old man as two young cubs might leave a traveller to the parental bear.
这对顽皮的双胞胎一直直视前方，除了全神贯注于黑色皮箱的时候，他们一起退了出去，通常对来访者不屑一顾，但把他留给了老人，就像两只幼崽可能会离开旅行者一样给熊爸爸。

‘And there you sit, I suppose, all the day long, eh?’ says Mr. George with folded arms.
“我想，你一整天都坐在那里，是吗？”乔治先生抱着双臂说道。

‘Just so, just so,’ the old man nods.
“正是如此，正是如此。”老人点头。

‘And don’t you occupy yourself at all?’
“你就一点也不忙吗？”

‘I watch the fire—and the boiling and the roasting—‘
“我看着火——还有沸腾和烘烤——”

‘When there is any,’ says Mr. George with great expression.
“如果有的话，”乔治先生神情激动地说。

‘Just so. When there is any.’
‘就是这样。当有的话。

‘Don’t you read or get read to?’
“你不读书，也不听别人读书吗？”

The old man shakes his head with sharp sly triumph. ‘No, no. We have never been readers in our family. It don’t pay. Stuff. Idleness. Folly. No, no!’
老人狡猾地胜利地摇摇头。 '不，不。我们家从来都不是读书人。它不付钱。东西。懒惰。蠢事。不，不！'

‘There’s not much to choose between your two states,’ says the visitor in a key too low for the old man’s dull hearing as he looks from him to the old woman and back again. ‘I say!’ in a louder voice.
“在你的两种状态之间没有太多选择，”来访者的声音对于老人迟钝的听力来说太低了，他的目光从他身上移到了老妇人身上，又转回来。 “我说！”声音更大了。

‘I hear you.’
“我听到了。”

‘You’ll sell me up at last, I suppose, when I am a day in arrear.’
“我想，当我拖欠一天的工资时，你最终会把我卖掉。”

‘My dear friend!’ cries Grandfather Smallweed, stretching out both hands to embrace him. ‘Never! Never, my dear friend! But my friend in the city that I got to lend you the money—HE might!’
“我亲爱的朋友！”斯莫威德爷爷喊道，伸出双手拥抱他。 '绝不！从来没有，我亲爱的朋友！但我在城里的朋友，我必须借钱给你——他可能会！”

‘Oh! You can’t answer for him?’ says Mr. George, finishing the inquiry in his lower key with the words ‘You lying old rascal!’
'哦！ “你不能替他回答吗？”乔治先生用低沉的语调结束了询问，“你这个撒谎的老流氓！”

‘My dear friend, he is not to be depended on. I wouldn’t trust him. He will have his bond, my dear friend.’
‘我亲爱的朋友，他不值得依赖。我不会相信他。他会得到他的保证，我亲爱的朋友。

‘Devil doubt him,’ says Mr. George. Charley appearing with a tray, on which are the pipe, a small paper of tobacco, and the brandyand-water, he asks her, ‘How do you come here! You haven’t got the family face.’
“魔鬼怀疑他，”乔治先生说。查理拿着一个托盘出现，上面有烟斗、一小张烟草纸和白兰地和水，他问她：“你怎么到这里来了！”你没有家人的面子。

‘I goes out to work, sir,’ returns Charley.
“我出去工作了，先生，”查理回答道。

The trooper (if trooper he be or have been) takes her bonnet off, with a light touch for so strong a hand, and pats her on the head. ‘You give the house almost a wholesome look. It wants a bit of youth as much as it wants fresh air.’ Then he dismisses her, lights his pipe, and drinks to Mr. Smallweed’s friend in the city— the one solitary flight of that esteemed old gentleman’s imagination.
警察（如果他是或曾经是警察的话）摘下她的帽子，用如此有力的手轻轻一碰，拍拍她的头。 “你给房子带来了几乎健康的外观。它需要一点青春，就像它需要新鲜空气一样。”然后他打发走了她，点燃烟斗，给斯莫威德先生在城里的朋友喝酒——这是那位受人尊敬的老绅士的一次孤独的想象力飞翔。

‘So you think he might be hard upon me, eh?’
“所以你认为他可能对我很严厉，是吗？”

‘I think he might—I am afraid he would. I have known him do it,’ says Grandfather Smallweed incautiously, ‘twenty times.’
“我认为他可能——我担心他会。我就知道他这么做过，”斯莫威德祖父漫不经心地说，“有二十次了。”

Incautiously, because his stricken better-half, who has been dozing over the fire for some time, is instantly aroused and jabbers ‘Twenty thousand pounds, twenty twenty-pound notes in a money-box, twenty guineas, twenty million twenty per cent, twenty—‘ and is then cut short by the flying cushion, which the visitor, to whom this singular experiment appears to be a novelty, snatches from her face as it crushes her in the usual manner.
不小心，因为他受伤的妻子已经在火上打瞌睡有一段时间了，他立刻就被惊醒了，叽叽喳喳地说：“两万英镑，钱箱里装着二十张二十英镑的钞票，二十几尼，两千万百分之二十，二十——”然后被飞垫打断了，对来访者来说，这个奇异的实验似乎很新奇，当它以通常的方式压碎她时，它从她的脸上夺走了。

‘You’re a brimstone idiot. You’re a scorpion—a brimstone scorpion! You’re a sweltering toad. You’re a chattering clattering broomstick witch that ought to be burnt!’ gasps the old man, prostrate in his chair. ‘My dear friend, will you shake me up a little?’
‘你是个硫磺白痴。你是一只蝎子——一只硫磺蝎子！你是一只闷热的蟾蜍。你是一个喋喋不休的扫帚女巫，应该被烧死！”老人倒在椅子上喘着气说道。 “我亲爱的朋友，你能让我摇晃一下吗？”

Mr. George, who has been looking first at one of them and then at the other, as if he were demented, takes his venerable acquaintance by the throat on receiving this request, and dragging him upright in his chalr as easily as if he were a doll, appears in two minds whether or no to shake all future power of cushioning out of him and shake him into his grave. Resisting the temptation, but agitating him violently enough to make his head roll like a harlequin’s, he puts him smartly down in his chair again and adjusts his skull-cap with such a rub that the old man winks with both eyes for a minute afterwards.
乔治先生先看看他们中的一个，然后又看看另一个，好像他疯了一样，一接到这个请求，就掐住了这位可敬的熟人的喉咙，把他从床上拉了起来，就像他是一个被人欺负的人一样。一个洋娃娃，出现在两个人的脑海中，是否要摆脱他未来所有的缓冲能力，并将他摇入坟墓。他抵制住了诱惑，但又猛烈地搅动了他，让他的头像丑角一样转动，他又巧妙地把他放到椅子上，揉了揉他的无边帽，结果老人眨了一会儿双眼。

‘O Lord!’ gasps Mr. Smallweed. ‘That’ll do. Thank you, my dear friend, that’ll do. Oh, dear me, I’m out of breath. O Lord!’ And Mr. Smallweed says it not without evident apprehensions of his dear friend, who still stands over him looming larger than ever.
“主啊！”斯莫威德先生喘着气说道。 ‘这样就可以了。谢谢你，我亲爱的朋友，就这样了。哦，天哪，我已经喘不过气来了。主啊！”斯莫尔韦德先生说这句话时，显然对他亲爱的朋友感到担忧，他仍然站在他的上方，比以往任何时候都显得更加高大。

The alarming presence, however, gradually subsides into its chair and falls to smoking in long puffs, consoling itself with the philosophical reflection, ‘The name of your friend in the city begins with a D, comrade, and you’re about right respecting the bond.’
然而，令人震惊的存在逐渐消退到椅子上，长长地吸着烟，用哲学反思来安慰自己，“同志，你在这座城市的朋友的名字以 D 开头，你尊重这个人是正确的”。纽带。'

‘Did you speak, Mr. George?’ inquires the old man.
“乔治先生，你说话了吗？”老人问道。

The trooper shakes his head, and leaning forward with his right elbow on his right knee and his pipe supported in that hand, while his other hand, resting on his left leg, squares his left elbow in a martial manner, continues to smoke. Meanwhile he looks at Mr. Smallweed with grave attention and now and then fans the cloud of smoke away in order that he may see him the more clearly.
士兵摇摇头，身体前倾，右肘放在右膝上，一手托着烟斗，另一只手放在左腿上，以军事方式摆正左肘，继续抽烟。与此同时，他全神贯注地看着斯莫威德先生，时不时地扇开烟雾，以便能更清楚地看到他。

‘I take it,’ he says, making just as much and as little change in his position as will enable him to reach the glass to his lips with a round, full action, ‘that I am the only man alive (or dead either) that gets the value of a pipe out of YOU?’
“我认为，”他说，同时稍微改变自己的位置，以便能够以一个圆形、完整的动作将玻璃杯送到嘴唇上，“我是唯一活着的人（或者死了的人） ）这能让你获得烟斗的价值吗？

‘Well,’ returns the old man, ‘it’s true that I don’t see company, Mr. George, and that I don’t treat. I can’t afford to it. But as you, in your pleasant way, made your pipe a condition—‘
“嗯，”老人回答道，“确实，乔治先生，我没有见到同伴，也没有请客。”我负担不起。但当你以你愉快的方式把你的烟斗作为一个条件时——”

‘Why, it’s not for the value of it; that’s no great thing. It was a fancy to get it out of you. To have something in for my money.’
‘为什么，这不是为了它的价值；而是为了它的价值。这不是什么了不起的事。把它从你身上夺走真是一种幻想。用我的钱来得到一些东西。

‘Ha! You’re prudent, prudent, sir!’ cries Grandfather Smallweed, rubbing his legs.
'哈！你很谨慎，很谨慎，先生！”斯莫威德爷爷一边擦着腿一边喊道。

‘Very. I always was.’ Puff. ‘It’s a sure sign of my prudence that I ever found the way here.’ Puff. ‘Also, that I am what I am.’ Puff. ‘I am well known to be prudent,’ says Mr. George, composedly smoking. ‘I rose in life that way.’
'非常。我一直都是。’噗。 “我找到了来这里的路，这无疑表明了我的谨慎。”噗。 “而且，我就是我。”噗。 “众所周知，我是个谨慎的人，”乔治先生平静地抽着烟说道。 “我就是这样成长起来的。”

‘Don’t he down-hearted, sir. You may rise yet.’
“他别灰心丧气，先生。你还可以起来。

Mr. George laughs and drinks.
乔治先生笑着喝了酒。

‘Ha’n’t you no relations, now,’ asks Grandfather Smallweed with a twinkle in his eyes, ‘who would pay off this little principal or who would lend you a good name or two that I could persuade my friend in the city to make you a further advance upon? Two good names would be sufficient for my friend in the city. Ha’n’t you no such relations, Mr. George?’
“现在你没有亲戚了吗？”斯莫威德爷爷眼睛里闪烁着光芒，问道，“谁会还清这个小本金，或者谁会借给你一两个好名声，这样我就可以说服我在城里的朋友了。”使你更进一步？对于我在城里的朋友来说，两个好名字就足够了。乔治先生，你不是有这样的关系吗？

Mr. George, still composedly smoking, replies, ‘If I had, I shouldn’t trouble them. I have been trouble enough to my belongings in my day. It MAY be a very good sort of penitence in a vagabond, who has wasted the best time of his life, to go back then to decent people that he never was a credit to and live upon them, but it’s not my sort. The best kind of amends then for having gone away is to keep away, in my opinion.’
乔治先生仍然镇定地抽烟，回答说：“如果我抽了，我就不应该麻烦他们了。”我这一天对我的财物已经够麻烦的了。对于一个浪费了一生中最美好的时光的流浪汉来说，回到那些他从未信任过的正派人那里并依靠他们生活，这可能是一种很好的忏悔，但这不是我的类型。在我看来，对离开的最好补偿就是远离。

‘But natural affection, Mr. George,’ hints Grandfather Smallweed.
“但是自然的感情，乔治先生，”斯莫威德祖父暗示道。

‘For two good names, hey?’ says Mr. George, shaking his head and still composedly smoking. ‘No. That’s not my sort either.’
“给两个好名字，嘿？”乔治先生摇着头说道，仍然泰然自若地抽烟。 '不。那也不是我喜欢的类型。

Grandfather Smallweed has been gradually sliding down in his chair since his last adjustment and is now a bundle of clothes with a voice in it calling for Judy. That houri, appearing, shakes him up in the usual manner and is charged by the old gentleman to remain near him. For he seems chary of putting his visitor to the trouble of repeating his late attentions.
自从上次调整后，斯莫威德祖父在椅子上逐渐滑落，现在变成了一捆衣服，里面有一个声音在呼唤朱迪。那个小时出现了，以通常的方式摇晃了他，并被老绅士要求留在他身边。因为他似乎很小心，不想让他的访客重复他迟来的关注。

‘Ha!’ he observes when he is in trim again. ‘If you could have traced out the captain, Mr. George, it would have been the making of you. If when you first came here, in consequence of our advertisement in the newspapers—when I say ‘our,’ I’m alluding to the advertisements of my friend in the city, and one or two others who embark their capital in the same way, and are so friendly towards me as sometimes to give me a lift with my little pittance— if at that time you could have helped us, Mr. George, it would have been the making of you.’
“哈！”当他再次恢复状态时，他说道。 “如果你能找到船长，乔治先生，那就是你的功劳了。”如果当你第一次来到这里时，由于报纸上我们的广告——当我说“我们的”时，我指的是我在城里的朋友的广告，以及其他一两个以同样的方式踏上首都的广告，而且对我非常友好，有时甚至用我微薄的钱载我一程——如果当时你能帮助我们，乔治先生，那就是你的功劳了。

‘I was willing enough to be ‘made,’ as you call it,’ says Mr. George, smoking not quite so placidly as before, for since the entrance of Judy he has been in some measure disturbed by a fascination, not of the admiring kind, which obliges him to look at her as she stands by her grandfather’s chair, ‘but on the whole, I am glad I wasn’t now.’
“我很愿意被‘制造’，就像你所说的那样，”乔治先生说，他抽烟的样子不像以前那么平静了，因为自从朱迪进来后，他在某种程度上被一种迷恋所困扰，而不是被一种迷恋所困扰。当她站在她祖父的椅子旁时，他不得不看着她，“但总的来说，我很高兴我现在不是。”

‘Why, Mr. George? In the name of—of brimstone, why?’ says Grandfather Smallweed with a plain appearance of exasperation. (Brimstone apparently suggested by his eye lighting on Mrs. Smallweed in her slumber.)
“为什么，乔治先生？ “以硫磺的名义，为什么？”斯莫威德祖父说道，脸上显出明显的恼怒。 （硫磺石显然是通过他的目光照射在熟睡的斯莫威德夫人身上来暗示的。）

‘For two reasons, comrade.’
“有两个原因，同志。”

‘And what two reasons, Mr. George? In the name of the—‘
“乔治先生，哪两个原因？以——‘的名义

‘Of our friend in the city?’ suggests Mr. George, composedly drinking.
“我们在城里的朋友？”乔治先生沉着地喝着酒说道。

‘Aye, if you like. What two reasons?’
‘是的，如果你愿意的话。哪两个原因？

‘In the first place,’ returns Mr. George, but still looking at Judy as if she being so old and so like her grandfather it is indifferent which of the two he addresses, ‘you gentlemen took me in. You advertised that Mr. Hawdon (Captain Hawdon, if you hold to the saying ‘Once a captain, always a captain’) was to hear of something to his advantage.’
“首先，”乔治先生回答道，但仍然看着朱迪，就好像她那么老了，那么像她的祖父，他对这两个人中的哪一个说话并不重要，“你们先生们收留了我。你们宣传说，乔治先生收留了我。”霍顿（霍顿船长，如果你坚持‘一旦成为船长，永远是船长’这句话的话）听到了对他有利的事情。

‘Well?’ returns the old man shrilly and sharply.
“怎么样？”老人尖声尖锐地回答。

‘Well!’ says Mr. George, smoking on. ‘It wouldn’t have been much to his advantage to have been clapped into prison by the whole bill and judgment trade of London.’
“好吧！”乔治先生一边说，一边继续抽烟。 “如果伦敦的整个票据和判决交易把他关进监狱，那对他来说并没有多大好处。”

‘How do you know that? Some of his rich relations might have paid his debts or compounded for ‘em. Besides, he had taken US in. He owed us immense sums all round. I would sooner have strangled him than had no return. If I sit here thinking of him,’ snarls the old man, holding up his impotent ten fingers, ‘I want to strangle him now.’ And in a sudden access of fury, he throws the cushion at the unoffending Mrs. Smallweed, but it passes harmlessly on one side of her chair.
'你怎么知道？他的一些富有的亲戚可能已经偿还了他的债务或为他们提供了复利。此外，他已经接纳了美国。他欠我们巨额款项。我宁愿掐死他，也不愿不归路。如果我坐在这里想着他，”老人举起无力的十根手指咆哮道，“我现在就想掐死他。”他突然勃然大怒，把垫子扔向不冒犯的斯莫威德太太，但是它从她椅子的一侧无害地经过。

‘I don’t need to be told,’ returns the trooper, taking his pipe from his lips for a moment and carrying his eyes back from following the progress of the cushion to the pipe-bowl which is burning low, ‘that he carried on heavily and went to ruin. I have been at his right hand many a day when he was charging upon ruin full-gallop. I was with him when he was sick and well, rich and poor. I laid this hand upon him after he had run through everything and broken down everything beneath him—when he held a pistol to his head.’
“我不需要被告知，”士兵回答道，暂时把烟斗从嘴边拿开，然后把目光从沿着垫子移动到正在燃烧的烟斗碗上的过程中收回来，“他带着烟斗。”重重地走向毁灭。当他全速冲向废墟时，我已经在他的右手边很多天了。当他生病或健康、富有或贫穷时，我都陪伴在他身边。在他冲破一切并摧毁他身下的一切之后，我把手放在了他身上——当时他用手枪指着他的头。

‘I wish he had let it off,’ says the benevolent old man, ‘and blown his head into as many pieces as he owed pounds!’
“我希望他能放过这一切，”仁慈的老人说道，“把他的头炸成碎片，数量与他所欠的英镑一样多！”

‘That would have been a smash indeed,’ returns the trooper coolly; ‘any way, he had been young, hopeful, and handsome in the days gone by, and I am glad I never found him, when he was neither, to lead to a result so much to his advantage. That’s reason number one.’
“那确实是一次粉碎，”士兵冷静地回答道。 “无论如何，在过去的日子里，他一直年轻、充满希望、英俊，我很高兴我从来没有发现他，当他两者都不是时，导致了对他如此有利的结果。这是第一个原因。

‘I hope number two’s as good?’ snarls the old man.
“我希望第二个也一样好吗？”老人咆哮道。

‘Why, no. It’s more of a selfish reason. If I had found him, I must have gone to the other world to look. He was there.’
‘为什么，不。这更多是出于自私的原因。如果我找到了他，我一定是到另一个世界去寻找了。他在那。'

‘How do you know he was there?’
“你怎么知道他在那里？”

‘He wasn’t here.’
“他不在这里。”

‘How do you know he wasn’t here?’
“你怎么知道他不在这里？”

‘Don’t lose your temper as well as your money,’ says Mr. George, calmly knocking the ashes out of his pipe. ‘He was drowned long before. I am convinced of it. He went over a ship’s side. Whether intentionally or accidentally, I don’t know. Perhaps your friend in the city does. Do you know what that tune is, Mr. Smallweed?’ he adds after breaking off to whistle one, accompanied on the table with the empty pipe.
“不要发脾气，也不要发钱。”乔治先生一边说，一边平静地敲掉烟斗里的灰烬。 “他很久以前就被淹死了。我对此深信不疑。他越过船舷。是有意还是无意，我不知道。也许你在城里的朋友知道。你知道那首曲子是什么吗，斯莫威德先生？”他停下来吹了一支口哨，并用空烟斗放在桌子上伴奏。

‘Tune!’ replied the old man. ‘No. We never have tunes here.’
“调！”老人回答道。 '不。我们这里从来没有曲调。

‘That’s the Dead March in Saul. They bury soldiers to it, so it’s the natural end of the subject. Now, if your pretty granddaughter —excuse me, miss—will condescend to take care of this pipe for two months, we shall save the cost of one next time. Good evening, Mr. Smallweed!’
“这就是《扫罗》中的死亡进行曲。他们把士兵埋在里面，所以这就是这个话题的自然结局。现在，如果你漂亮的孙女——对不起，小姐——肯屈尊照顾这根烟斗两个月，我们下次就可以省下一根的费用了。晚上好，斯莫威德先生！

‘My dear friend!’ the old man gives him both his hands.
“我亲爱的朋友！”老人伸出双手。

‘So you think your friend in the city will be hard upon me if I fall in a payment?’ says the trooper, looking down upon him like a giant.
“那么你认为如果我拖欠付款，你在城里的朋友会对我很严厉吗？”士兵说道，他像巨人一样俯视着他。

‘My dear friend, I am afraid he will,’ returns the old man, looking up at him like a pygmy.
“我亲爱的朋友，恐怕他会的，”老人回答道，像侏儒一样抬头看着他。

Mr. George laughs, and with a glance at Mr. Smallweed and a parting salutation to the scornful Judy, strides out of the parlour, clashing imaginary sabres and other metallic appurtenances as he goes.
乔治先生笑了，看了一眼斯莫尔韦德先生，向轻蔑的朱迪行了临别致意，然后大步走出客厅，边走边碰撞着想象中的军刀和其他金属附属品。

‘You’re a damned rogue,’ says the old gentleman, making a hideous grimace at the door as he shuts it. ‘But I’ll lime you, you dog, I’ll lime you!’
“你真是个该死的流氓。”老先生关门时对着门做了个可怕的鬼脸，说道。 “但我会石灰你，你这狗，我会石灰你！”

After this amiable remark, his spirit soars into those enchanting regions of reflection which its education and pursuits have opened to it, and again he and Mrs. Smallweed while away the rosy hours, two unrelieved sentinels forgotten as aforesaid by the Black Serjeant.
在这句和蔼可亲的话之后，他的精神飞升到那些迷人的反思领域，这是他的教育和追求所打开的，他和斯莫尔威德夫人再次度过了美好的时光，就像黑警官所说的那样，两个无法释怀的哨兵被遗忘了。

While the twain are faithful to their post, Mr. George strides through the streets with a massive kind of swagger and a graveenough face. It is eight o’clock now, and the day is fast drawing in. He stops hard by Waterloo Bridge and reads a playbill, decides to go to Astley’s Theatre. Being there, is much delighted with the horses and the feats of strength; looks at the weapons with a critical eye; disapproves of the combats as giving evidences of unskilful swordsmanship; but is touched home by the sentiments. In the last scene, when the Emperor of Tartary gets up into a cart and condescends to bless the united lovers by hovering over them with the Union Jack, his eyelashes are moistened with emotion.
当两人忠于自己的岗位时，乔治先生大步穿过街道，神气十足，表情严肃。现在已经八点了，天色很快就过去了。他在滑铁卢桥前停下来，读了一份节目单，决定去阿斯特利剧院。在那里，人们对马匹和力量的壮举感到非常高兴。以批判的眼光审视武器；不赞成这些战斗，认为它们是剑术不熟练的证据；但被这些情感触动了。在最后一幕中，当鞑靼皇帝登上一辆马车，屈尊将英国国旗悬停在他们上方，祝福这对结合的恋人时，他的睫毛因情感而湿润。

The theatre over, Mr. George comes across the water again and makes his way to that curious region lying about the Haymarket and Leicester Square which is a centre of attraction to indifferent foreign hotels and indifferent foreigners, racket-courts, fightingmen, swordsmen, footguards, old china, gaming-houses, exhibitions, and a large medley of shabbiness and shrinking out of sight. Penetrating to the heart of this region, he arrives by a court and a long whitewashed passage at a great brick building composed of bare walls, floors, roof-rafters, and skylights, on the front of which, if it can be said to have any front, is painted GEORGE’S SHOOTING GALLERY, &c.
剧院结束了，乔治先生再次渡过水面，来到了干草市场和莱斯特广场附近那个令人好奇的地区，那里是一个吸引着冷漠的外国旅馆和冷漠的外国人、球场、战士、剑客、护卫的中心。 、旧瓷器、赌场、展览，还有一大堆破旧的东西和消失在视线之外的东西。深入到这个地区的中心，他经过一个庭院和一条长长的粉刷过的通道，到达了一座由光秃秃的墙壁、地板、屋顶椽子和天窗组成的巨大砖砌建筑，在它的前面，如果可以说有任何正面都涂有乔治射击馆等。

Into George’s Shooting Gallery, &c., he goes; and in it there are gaslights (partly turned off now), and two whitened targets for rifle-shooting, and archery accommodation, and fencing appliances, and all necessaries for the British art of boxing. None of these sports or exercises being pursued in George’s Shooting Gallery tonight, which is so devoid of company that a little grotesque man with a large head has it all to himself and lies asleep upon the floor.
他走进乔治的射击馆等；里面有煤气灯（现在部分关闭），两个用于步枪射击的白色靶子，射箭住宿，击剑用具，以及英国拳击艺术的所有必需品。今晚乔治的射击馆里没有进行这些运动或练习，那里如此缺乏同伴，以至于一个大脑袋的小怪人独自一人，躺在地板上睡着了。

The little man is dressed something like a gunsmith, in a greenbaize apron and cap; and his face and hands are dirty with gunpowder and begrimed with the loading of guns. As he lies in the light before a glaring white target, the black upon him shines again. Not far off is the strong, rough, primitive table with a vice upon it at which he has been working. He is a little man with a face all crushed together, who appears, from a certain blue and speckled appearance that one of his cheeks presents, to have been blown up, in the way of business, at some odd time or times.
这个小个子男人的打扮有点像枪匠，围着绿色围裙，戴着帽子。他的脸和手都被火药弄脏了，而且还因为装弹而弄脏了。当他躺在一个耀眼的白色目标前的光亮中时，他身上的黑色再次闪耀。不远处有一张坚固、粗糙、简陋的桌子，上面放着一个虎钳，他一直在上面工作。他是个小个子男人，一张脸都挤在一起了，从他的一侧脸颊呈现出的某种蓝色和斑点的外观来看，他似乎在某个奇怪的时间或时间里，在生意上被炸毁了。

‘Phil!’ says the trooper in a quiet voice.
“菲尔！”士兵轻声说道。

‘All right!’ cries Phil, scrambling to his feet.
“好吧！”菲尔喊道，爬了起来。

‘Anything been doing?’
“有什么事吗？”

‘Flat as ever so much swipes,’ says Phil. ‘Five dozen rifle and a dozen pistol. As to aim!’ Phil gives a howl at the recollection.
“滑动次数一如既往地平坦，”菲尔说。 “五打步枪和一打手枪。至于瞄准！”菲尔回忆起这件事，嚎啕大哭。

‘Shut up shop, Phil!’
“闭嘴吧，菲尔！”

As Phil moves about to execute this order, it appears that he is lame, though able to move very quickly. On the speckled side of his face he has no eyebrow, and on the other side he has a bushy black one, which want of uniformity gives him a very singular and rather sinister appearance. Everything seems to have happened to his hands that could possibly take place consistently with the retention of all the fingers, for they are notched, and seamed, and crumpled all over. He appears to be very strong and lifts heavy benches about as if he had no idea what weight was. He has a curious way of limping round the gallery with his shoulder against the wall and tacking off at objects he wants to lay hold of instead of going straight to them, which has left a smear all round the four walls, conventionally called ‘Phil’s mark.’
当菲尔准备执行这个命令时，虽然他能够移动得很快，但他看起来很跛。他脸上有斑点的一侧没有眉毛，另一侧则有浓密的黑色眉毛，这种不均匀的状态使他的外表显得非常奇特而阴险。一切似乎都发生在他的手上，而这些事情可能与所有手指的保留一致地发生，因为它们到处都是凹痕、接缝和皱巴巴的。他看起来很强壮，举着沉重的板凳，好像不知道什么是重量。他有一种奇怪的方式，用肩膀靠墙在画廊里一瘸一拐地走来走去，然后用钉子敲击他想要抓住的物体，而不是直接走向它们，这在四堵墙上留下了污点，通常被称为“菲尔的痕迹” .'

This custodian of George’s Gallery in George’s absence concludes his proceedings, when he has locked the great doors and turned out all the lights but one, which he leaves to glimmer, by dragging out from a wooden cabin in a corner two mattresses and bedding. These being drawn to opposite ends of the gallery, the trooper makes his own bed and Phil makes his.
这位乔治画廊的管理员在乔治不在的时候结束了他的工作，他锁上了大门，关掉了所有的灯，只留一盏灯在角落里微光，从角落里的木屋里拖出两张床垫和床上用品。这些人被吸引到画廊的两端，士兵自己铺床，菲尔铺他的床。

‘Phil!’ says the master, walking towards him without his coat and waistcoat, and looking more soldierly than ever in his braces. ‘You were found in a doorway, weren’t you?’
“菲尔！”大师说道，他没有穿外套和背心，朝他走来，戴着背带的样子比以往任何时候都更有军人气概。 “你是在门口被发现的，不是吗？”

‘Gutter,’ says Phil. ‘Watchman tumbled over me.’
“天沟，”菲尔说。 “看守人从我身上摔倒了。”

‘Then vagabondizing came natural to YOU from the beginning.’
“那么流浪对你来说从一开始就很自然。”

‘As nat’ral as possible,’ says Phil.
“尽可能自然，”菲尔说。

‘Good night!’
'晚安！'

‘Good night, guv’ner.’
“晚安，州长。”

Phil cannot even go straight to bed, but finds it necessary to shoulder round two sides of the gallery and then tack off at his mattress. The trooper, after taking a turn or two in the rifledistance and looking up at the moon now shining through the skylights, strides to his own mattress by a shorter route and goes to bed too.
菲尔甚至不能直接上床睡觉，但他发现有必要绕过画廊的两侧，然后钉上床垫。士兵在步枪距离转了一两圈，抬头看着天窗里的月亮，然后沿着一条较短的路大步走到自己的床垫上，也上床睡觉了。

CHAPTER XXII
第二十二章


Mr. Bucket
桶先生

Allegory looks pretty cool in Lincoln’s Inn Fields, though the evening is hot, for both Mr. Tulkinghorn’s windows are wide open, and the room is lofty, gusty, and gloomy. These may not be desirable characteristics when November comes with fog and sleet or January with ice and snow, but they have their merits in the sultry long vacation weather. They enable Allegory, though it has cheeks like peaches, and knees like bunches of blossoms, and rosy swellings for calves to its legs and muscles to its arms, to look tolerably cool to-night.
《寓言》在林肯客栈球场看起来很酷，尽管晚上很热，因为图金霍恩先生的窗户都大开着，房间很高，风很大，而且阴暗。当十一月有雾和雨夹雪或一月有冰雪时，这些特征可能并不理想，但在闷热的长假天气中它们有其优点。尽管《寓言》有着桃子般的脸颊、花朵般的膝盖、小腿至腿部的玫瑰色肿块以及手臂的肌肉，但它们使《寓言》今晚看起来相当凉爽。

Plenty of dust comes in at Mr. Tulkinghorn’s windows, and plenty more has generated among his furniture and papers. It lies thick everywhere. When a breeze from the country that has lost its way takes fright and makes a blind hurry to rush out again, it flings as much dust in the eyes of Allegory as the law-or Mr. Tulkinghorn, one of its trustiest representatives—may scatter, on occasion, in the eyes of the laity.
图尔金霍恩先生的窗户进了很多灰尘，他的家具和文件中也产生了更多灰尘。到处都是厚厚的。当一阵微风从迷失的国家吹来，带来恐惧，盲目地匆忙再次冲出时，它会在寓言的眼中扬起尽可能多的灰尘，就像法律——或者法律最值得信赖的代表之一图尔金霍恩先生——可能会驱散一样。 ，有时，在外行人看来。

In his lowering magazine of dust, the universal article into which his papers and himself, and all his clients, and all things of earth, animate and inanimate, are resolving, Mr. Tulkinghorn sits at one of the open windows enjoying a bottle of old port. Though a hard-grained man, close, dry, and silent, he can enjoy old wine with the best. He has a priceless bin of port in some artful cellar under the Fields, which is one of his many secrets. When he dines alone in chambers, as he has dined to-day, and has his bit of fish and his steak or chicken brought in from the coffee-house, he descends with a candle to the echoing regions below the deserted mansion, and heralded by a remote reverberation of thundering doors, comes gravely back encircled by an earthy atmosphere and carrying a bottle from which he pours a radiant nectar, two score and ten years old, that blushes in the glass to find itself so famous and fills the whole room with the fragrance of southern grapes.
图尔金霍恩先生坐在一扇开着的窗户前，坐在一扇开着的窗户旁，享受着一瓶陈旧的葡萄酒。港口。虽为人刚毅，亲近，干涩，沉默，却能与最好的老酒一起享用。他在田野下的某个巧妙的地窖里拥有一箱无价的波特酒，这是他的众多秘密之一。当他独自在房间里用餐时，就像他今天吃的那样，并从咖啡馆带来他的一点鱼和牛排或鸡肉时，他会拿着一支蜡烛下降到废弃宅邸下面回响的区域，并预示着远处传来雷鸣般的门声，他严肃地回来，被泥土的气氛包围着，手里拿着一个瓶子，从里面倒出了两瓶十岁的光芒四射的花蜜，它在玻璃杯里脸红了，发现自己如此出名，充满了整个房间带着南方葡萄的香气。

Mr. Tulkinghorn, sitting in the twilight by the open window, enjoys his wine. As if it whispered to him of its fifty years of silence and seclusion, it shuts him up the closer. More impenetrable than ever, he sits, and drinks, and mellows as it were in secrecy, pondering at that twilight hour on all the mysteries he knows, associated with darkening woods in the country, and vast blank shut-up houses in town, and perhaps sparing a thought or two for himself, and his family history, and his money, and his will—all a mystery to every one—and that one bachelor friend of his, a man of the same mould and a lawyer too, who lived the same kind of life until he was seventy-five years old, and then suddenly conceiving (as it is supposed) an impression that it was too monotonous, gave his gold watch to his hair-dresser one summer evening and walked leisurely home to the Temple and hanged himself.
图金霍恩先生在暮色中坐在开着的窗户旁，享用着他的葡萄酒。仿佛它在向他低声诉说五十年的沉默和隐居，却又让他闭得更近。他比以往任何时候都更加难以捉摸，他坐着，喝酒，慢慢成熟，就像在秘密中一样，在黄昏时分思考他所知道的所有奥秘，这些奥秘与乡间变暗的树林和城里大片空旷、封闭的房屋有关，也许会留心一两件事，想想他自己、他的家族史、他的金钱和他的遗嘱——对每个人来说，这一切都是一个谜——还有他的一个单身汉朋友，一个同样的人，也是一名律师，他生活在一直过着同样的生活，直到七十五岁，然后突然（正如人们所认为的）一种感觉太单调了，一个夏天的傍晚，他把金表交给了理发师，然后悠闲地走回家。寺庙上吊自杀了。

But Mr. Tulkinghorn is not alone to-night to ponder at his usual length. Seated at the same table, though with his chair modestly and uncomfortably drawn a little way from it, sits a bald, mild, shining man who coughs respectfully behind his hand when the lawyer bids him fill his glass.
但今晚，塔尔金霍恩先生并不是唯一一个像往常那样思考的人。同一张桌子上坐着一位秃顶的、温和的、光彩照人的男人，尽管他的椅子谦逊地、不舒服地离桌子有点远，当律师让他倒酒时，他在手后面恭敬地咳嗽了一声。

‘Now, Snagsby,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, ‘to go over this odd story again.’
“现在，斯纳格斯比，”塔尔金霍恩先生说，“再回顾一下这个奇怪的故事。”

‘If you please, sir.’
“如果您愿意的话，先生。”

‘You told me when you were so good as to step round here last night—‘
“你昨晚告诉我你很擅长到这里来——”

‘For which I must ask you to excuse me if it was a liberty, sir; but I remember that you had taken a sort of an interest in that person, and I thought it possible that you might—just—wish—to—‘
“如果这是一种自由的话，我必须请你原谅，先生；但我记得你对那个人有点兴趣，而且我认为你可能——只是——希望——”

Mr. Tulkinghorn is not the man to help him to any conclusion or to admit anything as to any possibility concerning himself. So Mr. Snagsby trails off into saying, with an awkward cough, ‘I must ask you to excuse the liberty, sir, I am sure.’
图金霍恩先生不会帮助他得出任何结论，也不会承认任何与他有关的可能性。于是，斯纳斯比先生尴尬地咳嗽了一声，最后说道：“我确信，先生，我必须请您原谅我的冒犯。”

‘Not at all,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘You told me, Snagsby, that you put on your hat and came round without mentioning your intention to your wife. That was prudent I think, because it’s not a matter of such importance that it requires to be mentioned.’
“一点也不，”图尔金霍恩先生说。 “斯纳斯比，你告诉我，你戴上帽子就过来了，但没有向你的妻子提及你的意图。我认为这是谨慎的做法，因为这并不是一个需要提及的重要问题。

‘Well, sir,’ returns Mr. Snagsby, ‘you see, my little woman is—not to put too fine a point upon it—inquisitive. She’s inquisitive. Poor little thing, she’s liable to spasms, and it’s good for her to have her mind employed. In consequence of which she employs it—I should say upon every individual thing she can lay hold of, whether it concerns her or not—especially not. My little woman has a very active mind, sir.’
“好吧，先生，”斯纳斯比先生回答道，“你看，我的小女人——不用说得太过分——好奇。她很好奇。可怜的小东西，她很容易痉挛，多动动脑子对她有好处。因此，她使用了它——我应该说的是她能掌握的每一件事情，无论它是否与她有关——尤其是与她无关。我的小女人头脑非常活跃，先生。”

Mr. Snagsby drinks and murmurs with an admiring cough behind his hand, ‘Dear me, very fine wine indeed!’
斯纳斯比先生一边喝着酒，一边在手背后发出钦佩的咳嗽声，低声说道：“天哪，确实是非常好的酒！”

‘Therefore you kept your visit to yourself last night?’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘And to-night too?’
“所以你昨晚才亲自拜访？”图尔金霍恩先生说道。 “今晚也是吗？”

‘Yes, sir, and to-night, too. My little woman is at present in— not to put too fine a point on it—in a pious state, or in what she considers such, and attends the Evening Exertions (which is the name they go by) of a reverend party of the name of Chadband. He has a great deal of eloquence at his command, undoubtedly, but I am not quite favourable to his style myself. That’s neither here nor there. My little woman being engaged in that way made it easier for me to step round in a quiet manner.’
“是的，先生，今晚也是。”我的小女人目前处于——不用说得太过分——处于一种虔诚的状态，或者说处于她认为的虔诚状态，并且参加了一个令人尊敬的聚会的晚间活动（这是他们的名字）。查德班德的名字。毫无疑问，他很有口才，但我自己不太喜欢他的风格。那既不在这里也不在那里。我的小女人以这种方式订婚，让我更容易安静地走来走去。

Mr. Tulkinghorn assents. ‘Fill your glass, Snagsby.’
图金霍恩先生表示同意。 “倒满你的杯子，斯纳斯比。”

‘Thank you, sir, I am sure,’ returns the stationer with his cough of deference. ‘This is wonderfully fine wine, sir!’
“谢谢您，先生，我相信，”文具店员咳嗽一声回答道。 “这是极好的美酒，先生！”

‘It is a rare wine now,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘It is fifty years old.’
“现在这是一种稀有的葡萄酒，”图金霍恩先生说。 “已经五十岁了。”

‘Is it indeed, sir? But I am not surprised to hear it, I am sure. It might be—any age almost.’ After rendering this general tribute to the port, Mr. Snagsby in his modesty coughs an apology behind his hand for drinking anything so precious.
“真的是这样吗，先生？但我确信，听到这个消息我并不感到惊讶。可能是——几乎任何年龄。”在向港口表达了普遍的敬意后，斯纳斯比先生谦虚地在手后咳嗽一声，为自己喝了如此珍贵的东西而道歉。

‘Will you run over, once again, what the boy said?’ asks Mr. Tulkinghorn, putting his hands into the pockets of his rusty smallclothes and leaning quietly back in his chair.
“你愿意再听一遍那个男孩说的话吗？”图金霍恩先生问道，他把手伸进生锈的内衣口袋里，静静地靠在椅子上。

‘With pleasure, sir.’
“很高兴，先生。”

Then, with fidelity, though with some prolixity, the law-stationer repeats Jo’s statement made to the assembled guests at his house. On coming to the end of his narrative, he gives a great start and breaks off with, ‘Dear me, sir, I wasn’t aware there was any other gentleman present!’
然后，法律文具员忠实地（尽管有些冗长）重复了乔对他家里聚集的客人所做的声明。在叙述结束时，他大吃一惊，接着说道：“天哪，先生，我不知道还有其他绅士在场！”

Mr. Snagsby is dismayed to see, standing with an attentive face between himself and the lawyer at a little distance from the table, a person with a hat and stick in his hand who was not there when he himself came in and has not since entered by the door or by either of the windows. There is a press in the room, but its hinges have not creaked, nor has a step been audible upon the floor. Yet this third person stands there with his attentive face, and his hat and stick in his hands, and his hands behind him, a composed and quiet listener. He is a stoutly built, steady-looking, sharp-eyed man in black, of about the middle-age. Except that he looks at Mr. Snagsby as if he were going to take his portrait, there is nothing remarkable about him at first sight but his ghostly manner of appearing.
斯纳格斯比先生沮丧地看到，在离桌子不远的地方，他和律师之间神情专注地站着一个人，手里拿着帽子，手里拿着棍子，他自己进来时并不在场，而且后来也没有进去过。靠近门或任一窗户。房间里有一台压力机，但铰链没有吱吱作响，地板上也没有脚步声。而第三个人站在那里，一脸专注，手里拿着帽子和手杖，双手放在身后，是一个镇定而安静的倾听者。他是一个身材魁梧、表情稳重、目光锐利的黑衣男子，大约中年。除了他看着斯纳斯比先生的样子，好像他要给他拍肖像一样，乍一看，除了他幽灵​​般的外表之外，他并没有什么特别之处。

‘Don’t mind this gentleman,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn in his quiet way. ‘This is only Mr. Bucket.’
“别介意这位先生，”图金霍恩先生平静地说。 “这只是巴克特先生。”

‘Oh, indeed, sir?’ returns the stationer, expressing by a cough that he is quite in the dark as to who Mr. Bucket may be.
“哦，确实如此，先生？”文具店老板咳嗽一声，表示他完全不知道巴克特先生是谁。

‘I wanted him to hear this story,’ says the lawyer, ‘because I have half a mind (for a reason) to know more of it, and he is very intelligent in such things. What do you say to this, Bucket?’
“我想让他听听这个故事，”律师说，“因为我（出于某种原因）有点想了解更多，而他在这些事情上非常聪明。”你对此有何看法，巴克？

‘It’s very plain, sir. Since our people have moved this boy on, and he’s not to be found on his old lay, if Mr. Snagsby don’t object to go down with me to Tom-all-Alone’s and point him out, we can have him here in less than a couple of hours’ time. I can do it without Mr. Snagsby, of course, but this is the shortest way.’
“这很简单，先生。既然我们的人已经把这个男孩转移了，而且在他的老地方已经找不到他了，如果斯纳格斯比先生不反对和我一起去汤姆孤儿店并指出他，我们可以让他在这儿不到几个小时的时间。当然，没有斯纳斯比先生我也可以做到，但这是最短的方法。

‘Mr. Bucket is a detective officer, Snagsby,’ says the lawyer in explanation.
'先生。巴克特是一名侦探，斯纳格斯比，”律师解释说。

‘Is he indeed, sir?’ says Mr. Snagsby with a strong tendency in his clump of hair to stand on end.
“他真的是吗，先生？”斯纳斯比先生说道，他的一簇头发都快要竖起来了。

‘And if you have no real objection to accompany Mr. Bucket to the place in question,’ pursues the lawyer, ‘I shall feel obliged to you if you will do so.’
“如果你确实不反对陪巴克特先生去那个地方，”律师继续说道，“如果你愿意的话，我将不胜感激。”

In a moment’s hesitation on the part of Mr. Snagsby, Bucket dips down to the bottom of his mind.
斯纳斯比先生犹豫了片刻，巴克特陷入了沉思。

‘Don’t you be afraid of hurting the boy,’ he says. ‘You won’t do that. It’s all right as far as the boy’s concerned. We shall only bring him here to ask him a question or so I want to put to him, and he’ll be paid for his trouble and sent away again. It’ll be a good job for him. I promise you, as a man, that you shall see the boy sent away all right. Don’t you be afraid of hurting him; you an’t going to do that.’
“你不用害怕伤害这个男孩，”他说。 ‘你不会那样做的。就男孩而言，这没什么问题。我们把他带到这里只是为了问他一个问题或者我想问他的问题，然后他会因为他的麻烦而得到报酬并再次被送走。这对他来说将是一份好工作。作为一个男人，我向你保证，你会看到这个男孩被顺利送走。你不怕伤害他吗？你不会那样做的。

‘Very well, Mr. Tulkinghorn!’ cries Mr. Snagsby cheerfully. And reassured, ‘Since that’s the case—‘
“很好，图金霍恩先生！”斯纳斯比先生高兴地喊道。并安慰道：“既然如此——”

‘Yes! And lookee here, Mr. Snagsby,’ resumes Bucket, taking him aside by the arm, tapping him familiarly on the breast, and speaking in a confidential tone. ‘You’re a man of the world, you know, and a man of business, and a man of sense. That’s what YOU are.’
'是的！瞧，斯纳斯比先生，”巴克特继续说道，抓住他的手臂，亲切地拍着他的胸口，用一种保密的语气说道。 “你知道，你是一个见多识广的人，一个有生意经的人，一个有理智的人。这就是你。

‘I am sure I am much obliged to you for your good opinion,’ returns the stationer with his cough of modesty, ‘but—‘
“我相信我非常感谢你的好意见，”文具店老板谦虚地咳嗽了一声，回答道，“但是——”

‘That’s what YOU are, you know,’ says Bucket. ‘Now, it an’t necessary to say to a man like you, engaged in your business, which is a business of trust and requires a person to be wide awake and have his senses about him and his head screwed on tight (I had an uncle in your business once)—it an’t necessary to say to a man like you that it’s the best and wisest way to keep little matters like this quiet. Don’t you see? Quiet!’
“你知道，这就是你，”巴克特说。 “现在，没有必要对像你这样的人说，从事你的生意，这是一项信任的生意，需要一个人保持清醒，对自己有清醒的认识，并且把头脑拧紧（我有曾经是你生意上的叔叔）——没有必要对像你这样的人说，像这样的小事保持安静是最好、最明智的方法。你没看到吗？安静的！'

‘Certainly, certainly,’ returns the other.
“当然，当然，”对方回答道。

‘I don’t mind telling YOU,’ says Bucket with an engaging appearance of frankness, ‘that as far as I can understand it, there seems to be a doubt whether this dead person wasn’t entitled to a little property, and whether this female hasn’t been up to some games respecting that property, don’t you see?’
“我不介意告诉你，”巴克特带着迷人的坦率说道，“据我所知，似乎有人怀疑这个死者是否没有资格获得一点财产，以及是否这位女性还没有参加过一些尊重该财产的游戏，你明白吗？

‘Oh!’ says Mr. Snagsby, but not appearing to see quite distinctly.
“哦！”斯纳斯比先生说道，但看上去并没有看得很清楚。

‘Now, what YOU want,’ pursues Bucket, again tapping Mr. Snagsby on the breast in a comfortable and soothing manner, ‘is that every person should have their rights according to justice. That’s what YOU want.’
“现在，你想要的，”巴克特继续说道，再次以一种舒适而安抚的方式拍拍斯纳斯比先生的胸口，“每个人都应该享有正义的权利。”那就是你想要的。'

‘To be sure,’ returns Mr. Snagsby with a nod.
“当然，”斯纳斯比先生点头回应。

‘On account of which, and at the same time to oblige a—do you call it, in your business, customer or client? I forget how my uncle used to call it.’
“因此，同时还要承担一个——在你的业务中，你称之为顾客还是客户？”我忘了我叔叔以前怎么称呼它。

‘Why, I generally say customer myself,’ replies Mr. Snagsby.
“为什么，我通常会说我自己是客户，”斯纳斯比先生回答道。

‘You’re right!’ returns Mr. Bucket, shaking hands with him quite affectionately. ‘—On account of which, and at the same time to oblige a real good customer, you mean to go down with me, in confidence, to Tom-all-Alone’s and to keep the whole thing quiet ever afterwards and never mention it to any one. That’s about your intentions, if I understand you?’
“你说得对！”巴克特先生回答道，并非常亲切地与他握手。 “——正因为如此，同时为了满足一位真正的好顾客的要求，你打算私下和我一起去汤姆孤儿店，从此以后将整件事保密，永远不要向别人提起这件事。”任何人。这就是你的意图，如果我理解的话？

‘You are right, sir. You are right,’ says Mr. Snagsby.
“你是对的，先生。你是对的，”斯纳斯比先生说。

‘Then here’s your hat,’ returns his new friend, quite as intimate with it as if he had made it; ‘and if you’re ready, I am.’
“那么这是你的帽子，”他的新朋友回答道，他对它的态度非常亲密，就好像它是他做的一样。 “如果你准备好了，我也准备好了。”

They leave Mr. Tulkinghorn, without a ruffle on the surface of his unfathomable depths, drinking his old wine, and go down into the streets.
他们离开了深不可测的图金霍恩先生，喝着他的老酒，表面上没有任何皱纹，然后走到街上。

‘You don’t happen to know a very good sort of person of the name of Gridley, do you?’ says Bucket in friendly converse as they descend the stairs.
“你碰巧不认识一个叫格里德利的好人，是吗？”他们走下楼梯时，巴克特友好地交谈道。

‘No,’ says Mr. Snagsby, considering, ‘I don’t know anybody of that name. Why?’
“不，”斯纳斯比先生考虑道，“我不认识叫这个名字的人。”为什么？'

‘Nothing particular,’ says Bucket; ‘only having allowed his temper to get a little the better of him and having been threatening some respectable people, he is keeping out of the way of a warrant I have got against him—which it’s a pity that a man of sense should do.’
“没什么特别的，”巴克特说。 “他只是任由自己的脾气变得好一点，并威胁了一些值得尊敬的人，他却回避了我对他的逮捕令——这是一个有理智的人应该做的事情，真是可惜。” '

As they walk along, Mr. Snagsby observes, as a novelty, that however quick their pace may be, his companion still seems in some undefinable manner to lurk and lounge; also, that whenever he is going to turn to the right or left, he pretends to have a fixed purpose in his mind of going straight ahead, and wheels off, sharply, at the very last moment. Now and then, when they pass a police-constable on his beat, Mr. Snagsby notices that both the constable and his guide fall into a deep abstraction as they come towards each other, and appear entirely to overlook each other, and to gaze into space. In a few instances, Mr. Bucket, coming behind some under-sized young man with a shining hat on, and his sleek hair twisted into one flat curl on each side of his head, almost without glancing at him touches him with his stick, upon which the young man, looking round, instantly evaporates. For the most part Mr. Bucket notices things in general, with a face as unchanging as the great mourning ring on his little finger or the brooch, composed of not much diamond and a good deal of setting, which he wears in his shirt.
当他们走着的时候，斯纳斯比先生观察到，不管他们的步伐有多快，他的同伴似乎仍然以某种难以定义的方式潜伏和休息，这是一种新奇的现象；而且，每当他要向右或向左转弯时，他都会假装心里有一个要一直向前走的固定目标，然后在最后一刻猛地转身离开。时不时地，当他们经过巡逻的警察时，斯纳斯比先生注意到，当警察和他的向导走向对方时，他们都陷入了深深的心不在焉，似乎完全忽视了对方，凝视着对方。空间。有几次，巴克特先生来到一个身材矮小的年轻人身后，戴着一顶闪亮的帽子，光滑的头发在头的两侧盘成一团平卷，几乎没有看他一眼，就用棍子碰了碰他，年轻人环顾四周，立刻就消失了。大多数情况下，巴克特先生注意到的是一般事物，他的脸就像他小指上的巨大哀悼戒指或胸针一样一成不变，由不多的钻石和大量的镶嵌组成，他把它们戴在衬衫上。

When they come at last to Tom-all-Alone’s, Mr. Bucket stops for a moment at the corner and takes a lighted bull’s-eye from the constable on duty there, who then accompanies him with his own particular bull’s-eye at his waist. Between his two conductors, Mr. Snagsby passes along the middle of a villainous street, undrained, unventilated, deep in black mud and corrupt water— though the roads are dry elsewhere—and reeking with such smells and sights that he, who has lived in London all his life, can scarce believe his senses. Branching from this street and its heaps of ruins are other streets and courts so infamous that Mr. Snagsby sickens in body and mind and feels as if he were going every moment deeper down into the infernal gulf.
当他们最终来到汤姆孤身之家时，巴克特先生在拐角处停了一会儿，从那里值班的警察那里看到了一个点燃的靶心，然后警察在他的腰间也带着他自己独特的靶心。斯纳格斯比先生在他的两名售票员之间穿过一条肮脏的街道中间，街道不排水、不通风，深陷黑泥和腐败的水里——尽管其他地方的道路是干的——而且散发着恶臭和景象，让他这个曾经生活在其中的人感到不舒服。他一生都在伦敦度过，几乎无法相信自己的感觉。从这条街道及其成堆的废墟中延伸出来的是其他臭名昭著的街道和法院，斯纳格斯比先生身心都感到恶心，感觉自己每时每刻都在深入地狱的深渊。

‘Draw off a bit here, Mr. Snagsby,’ says Bucket as a kind of shabby palanquin is borne towards them, surrounded by a noisy crowd. ‘Here’s the fever coming up the street!’
“斯纳格斯比先生，在这里稍微开一点。”巴克特说道，一辆破旧的轿子被抬向他们，周围是喧闹的人群。 “街上发烧了！”

As the unseen wretch goes by, the crowd, leaving that object of attraction, hovers round the three visitors like a dream of horrible faces and fades away up alleys and into ruins and behind walls, and with occasional cries and shrill whistles of warning, thenceforth flits about them until they leave the place.
当那个看不见的可怜虫经过时，人群离开了那个吸引人的物体，在三个游客周围盘旋，就像一场可怕的面孔的梦，然后消失在小巷、废墟和墙后，偶尔会发出警告的叫喊声和尖锐的口哨声，从那时起在他们周围飞翔，直到他们离开这个地方。

‘Are those the fever-houses, Darby?’ Mr. Bucket coolly asks as he turns his bull’s-eye on a line of stinking ruins.
“那些是发烧屋吗，达比？”巴克特先生将靶心转向一排散发着恶臭的废墟，冷静地问道。

Darby replies that ‘all them are,’ and further that in all, for months and months, the people ‘have been down by dozens’ and have been carried out dead and dying ‘like sheep with the rot.’ Bucket observing to Mr. Snagsby as they go on again that he looks a little poorly, Mr. Snagsby answers that he feels as if he couldn’t breathe the dreadful air.
达比回答说，“他们都是”，并且进一步说，几个月来，人们“已经有数十人倒下”，并且“像腐烂的羊一样”被抬出去死去活来。当他们继续说他看起来有点糟糕时，斯纳斯比先生回答说，他感觉好像无法呼吸这可怕的空气。

There is inquiry made at various houses for a boy named Jo. As few people are known in Tom-all-Alone’s by any Christian sign, there is much reference to Mr. Snagsby whether he means Carrots, or the Colonel, or Gallows, or Young Chisel, or Terrier Tip, or Lanky, or the Brick. Mr. Snagsby describes over and over again. There are conflicting opinions respecting the original of his picture. Some think it must be Carrots, some say the Brick. The Colonel is produced, but is not at all near the thing. Whenever Mr. Snagsby and his conductors are stationary, the crowd flows round, and from its squalid depths obsequious advice heaves up to Mr. Bucket. Whenever they move, and the angry bull’s-eyes glare, it fades away and flits about them up the alleys, and in the ruins, and behind the walls, as before.
人们在各个房屋中询问了一个名叫乔的男孩的情况。由于《汤姆孤身一人》中很少有人以任何基督教标志为人所知，所以很多地方都提到了斯纳斯比先生，无论他指的是胡萝卜、上校、绞刑架、小凿子、小梗犬尖、瘦长的还是砖头。 。斯纳斯比先生一遍又一遍地描述。对于他的照片的原作，存在着相互矛盾的意见。有人认为一定是胡萝卜，有人说是砖头。上校已出现，但根本不在那个东西附近。每当斯纳斯比先生和他的指挥静止不动时，人群就会围过来，从肮脏的深处向巴克特先生提出谄媚的建议。每当他们移动时，愤怒的靶心眩光就会消失，并像以前一样在小巷、废墟和墙后掠过他们。

At last there is a lair found out where Toughy, or the Tough Subject, lays him down at night; and it is thought that the Tough Subject may be Jo. Comparison of notes between Mr. Snagsby and the proprietress of the house—a drunken face tied up in a black bundle, and flaring out of a heap of rags on the floor of a doghutch which is her private apartment—leads to the establishment of this conclusion. Toughy has gone to the doctor’s to get a bottle of stuff for a sick woman but will be here anon.
最后，人们发现了一个巢穴，强悍的人，或者强悍的受试者，晚上把他放下来。据认为，棘手的主题可能是乔。斯纳格斯比先生和这所房子的女主人之间的笔记比较——一张醉酒的脸被绑在一个黑色的包裹里，从她私人公寓的狗笼地板上的一堆破布上闪闪发光——导致建立了这个结论。 Toughy 已经去医生那儿给生病的女人买了一瓶东西，但很快就会过来。

‘And who have we got here to-night?’ says Mr. Bucket, opening another door and glaring in with his bull’s-eye. ‘Two drunken men, eh? And two women? The men are sound enough,’ turning back each sleeper’s arm from his face to look at him. ‘Are these your good men, my dears?’
“今晚我们来的是谁？”巴克特先生一边说，一边打开另一扇门，用靶心怒视着里面。 “两个醉汉，是吗？还有两个女人？这些人都很健康，”每个睡觉的人都把手臂从他脸上转回来看着他。 “亲爱的，这些是你的好人吗？”

‘Yes, sir,’ returns one of the women. ‘They are our husbands.’
“是的，先生，”其中一位女士回答道。 “他们是我们的丈夫。”

‘Brickmakers, eh?’
“制砖工，嗯？”

‘Yes, sir.’
'是的先生。'

‘What are you doing here? You don’t belong to London.’
'你在这里做什么？你不属于伦敦。

‘No, sir. We belong to Hertfordshire.’
'不，先生。我们属于赫特福德郡。

‘Whereabouts in Hertfordshire?’
“赫特福德郡在哪里？”

‘Saint Albans.’
“圣奥尔本斯。”

‘Come up on the tramp?’
“跟流浪汉一起上来吗？”

‘We walked up yesterday. There’s no work down with us at present, but we have done no good by coming here, and shall do none, I expect.’
‘我们昨天是步行上去的。目前我们没有什么工作要做，但我们来这里并没有做任何好事，我想也不会做任何事。

‘That’s not the way to do much good,’ says Mr. Bucket, turning his head in the direction of the unconscious figures on the ground.
“这不是做多好事的方法，”巴克特先生说，他把头转向地面上失去知觉的人影。

‘It an’t indeed,’ replies the woman with a sigh. ‘Jenny and me knows it full well.’
“确实不是，”女人叹了口气回答道。 “珍妮和我非常清楚这一点。”

The room, though two or three feet higher than the door, is so low that the head of the tallest of the visitors would touch the blackened ceiling if he stood upright. It is offensive to every sense; even the gross candle burns pale and sickly in the polluted air. There are a couple of benches and a higher bench by way of table. The men lie asleep where they stumbled down, but the women sit by the candle. Lying in the arms of the woman who has spoken is a very young child.
房间虽然比门高两三英尺，但非常低，最高的访客如果站直的话，头会碰到黑色的天花板。从任何意义上来说，它都是令人反感的；就连粗俗的蜡烛在污染的空气中燃烧起来也显得苍白而病态。有几张长凳和一张靠近桌子的更高的长凳。男人们躺在他们跌倒的地方睡着了，而女人们则坐在蜡烛旁边。说话的女人怀里躺着一个很小的孩子。

‘Why, what age do you call that little creature?’ says Bucket. ‘It looks as if it was born yesterday.’ He is not at all rough about it; and as he turns his light gently on the infant, Mr. Snagsby is strangely reminded of another infant, encircled with light, that he has seen in pictures.
“为什么，你管那个小动物多大年纪了？”巴克特说。 “它看起来就像是昨天出生的。”他对此一点也不粗暴；当斯纳斯比先生轻轻地将灯转向婴儿时，他奇怪地想起了他在照片中看到的另一个被光包围的婴儿。

‘He is not three weeks old yet, sir,’ says the woman.
“先生，他还不到三周大，”女人说。

‘Is he your child?’
“他是你的孩子吗？”

‘Mine.’
'矿。'

The other woman, who was bending over it when they came in, stoops down again and kisses it as it lies asleep.
当他们进来时，另一个女人正弯腰在它身上，当它睡着时，她再次弯下腰亲吻它。

‘You seem as fond of it as if you were the mother yourself,’ says Mr. Bucket.
“你看起来就像你自己是母亲一样喜欢它，”巴克特先生说。

‘I was the mother of one like it, master, and it died.’
“我是一个这样的孩子的母亲，主人，但它死了。”

‘Ah, Jenny, Jenny!’ says the other woman to her. ‘Better so. Much better to think of dead than alive, Jenny! Much better!’
“啊，珍妮，珍妮！”另一个女人对她说道。 '这样更好。珍妮，想想死了比活着好得多！好多了！'

‘Why, you an’t such an unnatural woman, I hope,’ returns Bucket sternly, ‘as to wish your own child dead?’
“为什么，我希望你不是一个如此不自然的女人，”巴克特严厉地回答道，“以至于希望你自己的孩子死掉？”

‘God knows you are right, master,’ she returns. ‘I am not. I’d stand between it and death with my own life if I could, as true as any pretty lady.’
“上帝知道你是对的，主人，”她回答道。 '我不是。如果可以的话，我愿意用自己的生命来阻止它和死亡，就像任何漂亮的女士一样。

‘Then don’t talk in that wrong manner,’ says Mr. Bucket, mollified again. ‘Why do you do it?’
“那就别用那种错误的方式说话，”巴克特先生再次平静下来说道。 '你为什么要这么做？'

‘It’s brought into my head, master,’ returns the woman, her eyes filling with tears, ‘when I look down at the child lying so. If it was never to wake no more, you’d think me mad, I should take on so. I know that very well. I was with Jenny when she lost hers—warn’t I, Jenny?—and I know how she grieved. But look around you at this place. Look at them,’ glancing at the sleepers on the ground. ‘Look at the boy you’re waiting for, who’s gone out to do me a good turn. Think of the children that your business lays with often and often, and that YOU see grow up!’
“主人，当我低头看着孩子这样躺着的时候，我的脑海里就浮现出了这个想法，”女人回答道，她的眼睛里充满了泪水。如果它不再醒来，你会认为我疯了，我应该这样做。我很清楚这一点。当珍妮失去她的时候，我就在她身边——我不是吗，珍妮？——我知道她有多悲伤。但看看你周围的这个地方。看看他们，”瞥了一眼地上的睡眠者。 “看看你在等的那个男孩，他出去为我做了好事。想想那些经常和你的生意打交道的孩子们，你看着他们长大！

‘Well, well,’ says Mr. Bucket, ‘you train him respectable, and he’ll be a comfort to you, and look after you in your old age, you know.’
“好吧，好吧，”巴克特先生说，“你训练他受人尊敬，他会给你带来安慰，并在你晚年照顾你，你知道。”

‘I mean to try hard,’ she answers, wiping her eyes. ‘But I have been a-thinking, being over-tired to-night and not well with the ague, of all the many things that’ll come in his way. My master will be against it, and he’ll be beat, and see me beat, and made to fear his home, and perhaps to stray wild. If I work for him ever so much, and ever so hard, there’s no one to help me; and if he should be turned bad ‘spite of all I could do, and the time should come when I should sit by him in his sleep, made hard and changed, an’t it likely I should think of him as he lies in my lap now and wish he had died as Jenny’s child died!’
“我的意思是要努力，”她一边回答，一边擦着眼睛。 “但我一直在想，今晚我太累了，而且疟疾也不太好，很多事情都会妨碍他。”我的主人会反对，他会被打败，看到我被打败，他会害怕他的家，也许还会流浪。如果我为他工作如此多、如此努力，却没有人帮助我；如果尽管我竭尽全力，他还是变坏了，到了我应该在他睡梦中坐在他身边、变得坚硬、改变的时候，我是不是应该在他躺在我的床上时想起他？现在就跑一圈，希望他也能像珍妮的孩子一样死掉！”

‘There, there!’ says Jenny. ‘Liz, you’re tired and ill. Let me take him.’
“那儿，那儿！”珍妮说。 ‘莉兹，你又累又病了。让我带他走吧。

In doing so, she displaces the mother’s dress, but quickly readjusts it over the wounded and bruised bosom where the baby has been lying.
在这样做时，她把母亲的衣服移开，但很快又将其重新调整到婴儿躺着的受伤和瘀伤的胸部上。

‘It’s my dead child,’ says Jenny, walking up and down as she nurses, ‘that makes me love this child so dear, and it’s my dead child that makes her love it so dear too, as even to think of its being taken away from her now. While she thinks that, I think what fortune would I give to have my darling back. But we mean the same thing, if we knew how to say it, us two mothers does in our poor hearts!’
“是我死去的孩子，”珍妮边吃奶边走来走去，说道，“这让我如此爱这个孩子，也是我死去的孩子让她如此爱它，甚至一想到它被带走了。”现在远离她。当她这么想的时候，我想我该付出多大的运气才能让我的宝贝回来。但我们的意思是一样的，如果我们知道怎么说，我们两个母亲在我们可怜的心里就是这么做的！

As Mr. Snagsby blows his nose and coughs his cough of sympathy, a step is heard without. Mr. Bucket throws his light into the doorway and says to Mr. Snagsby, ‘Now, what do you say to Toughy? Will HE do?’
当斯纳斯比先生擤鼻涕并同情地咳嗽时，外面传来了脚步声。巴克特先生将手电筒投向门口，对斯纳斯比先生说：“现在，你对坚强有什么看法？”他会做吗？

‘That’s Jo,’ says Mr. Snagsby.
“那是乔，”斯纳斯比先生说。

Jo stands amazed in the disk of light, like a ragged figure in a magic-lantern, trembling to think that he has offended against the law in not having moved on far enough. Mr. Snagsby, however, giving him the consolatory assurance, ‘It’s only a job you will be paid for, Jo,’ he recovers; and on being taken outside by Mr. Bucket for a little private confabulation, tells his tale satisfactorily, though out of breath.
乔惊讶地站在光盘中，就像魔法灯笼里一个衣衫褴褛的人，想到自己因为没有走得足够远而触犯了法律，他浑身发抖。然而，斯纳格斯比先生给了他安慰性的保证，“这只是一份你会得到报酬的工作，乔，”他恢复道。在被巴克特先生带到外面进行一次私人谈话后，他满意地讲述了他的故事，尽管上气不接下气。

‘I have squared it with the lad,’ says Mr. Bucket, returning, ‘and it’s all right. Now, Mr. Snagsby, we’re ready for you.’
“我已经和那小伙子算好了，”巴克特先生回来后说道，“没问题。”现在，斯纳格斯比先生，我们已经为您做好了准备。

First, Jo has to complete his errand of good nature by handing over the physic he has been to get, which he delivers with the laconic verbal direction that ‘it’s to be all took d’rectly.’ Secondly, Mr. Snagsby has to lay upon the table half a crown, his usual panacea for an immense variety of afflictions. Thirdly, Mr. Bucket has to take Jo by the arm a little above the elbow and walk him on before him, without which observance neither the Tough Subject nor any other Subject could be professionally conducted to Lincoln’s Inn Fields. These arrangements completed, they give the women good night and come out once more into black and foul Tom-all-Alone’s.
首先，乔必须交出他要去的体检，以完成他的善意任务，他用简洁的口头指示传达了这一信息：“一切都应该直接采取。”其次，斯纳格斯比先生必须放下桌子上放着半个克朗，这是他常用的治疗各种痛苦的灵丹妙药。第三，巴克特先生必须抓住乔的手臂，让他在肘部上方一点点的地方走，否则，无论是艰难的主题还是任何其他主题都无法专业地引导到林肯客栈球场。这些安排完成后，他们向女人们道晚安，然后再次穿着黑色肮脏的汤姆独自走出来。

By the noisome ways through which they descended into that pit, they gradually emerge from it, the crowd flitting, and whistling, and skulking about them until they come to the verge, where restoration of the bull’s-eyes is made to Darby. Here the crowd, like a concourse of imprisoned demons, turns back, yelling, and is seen no more. Through the clearer and fresher streets, never so clear and fresh to Mr. Snagsby’s mind as now, they walk and ride until they come to Mr. Tulkinghorn’s gate.
他们通过令人讨厌的方式掉进那个坑里，然后逐渐从坑里出来，人群在他们身边飞快地走动、吹口哨、鬼鬼祟祟，直到他们来到边缘，在那里达比恢复了靶心。这里的人群就像一群被囚禁的恶魔，一边叫喊一边转身，然后就再也看不见了。穿过更加清晰、清新的街道，斯纳斯比先生的头脑从未像现在这样清晰和新鲜，他们步行、骑行，直到来到图尔金霍恩先生的大门前。

As they ascend the dim stairs (Mr. Tulkinghorn’s chambers being on the first floor), Mr. Bucket mentions that he has the key of the outer door in his pocket and that there is no need to ring. For a man so expert in most things of that kind, Bucket takes time to open the door and makes some noise too. It may be that he sounds a note of preparation.
当他们登上昏暗的楼梯时（图金霍恩先生的房间在一楼），巴克特先生提到他的口袋里有外门的钥匙，不需要按门铃。对于一个在大多数此类事情上都如此精通的人来说，巴克特需要花一些时间来打开门，并且还发出一些声音。他听起来可能有一种准备的意味。

Howbeit, they come at last into the hall, where a lamp is burning, and so into Mr. Tulkinghorn’s usual room—the room where he drank his old wine to-night. He is not there, but his two old-fashioned candlesticks are, and the room is tolerably light.
然而，他们最终还是走进了亮着灯的大厅，然后进入了图尔金霍恩先生常住的房间——他今晚喝陈酒的房间。他不在那儿，但他的两个老式烛台还在，而且房间里还算明亮。

Mr. Bucket, still having his professional hold of Jo and appearing to Mr. Snagsby to possess an unlimited number of eyes, makes a little way into this room, when Jo starts and stops.
巴克特先生仍然以他专业的方式控制着乔，并且在斯纳斯比先生看来拥有无限多的眼睛，当乔开始和停止时，巴克特先生向这个房间走了一小段路。

‘What’s the matter?’ says Bucket in a whisper.
“怎么了？”巴克特低声问道。

‘There she is!’ cries Jo.
“她在那儿！”乔喊道。

‘Who!’
'WHO！'

‘The lady!’
'这位女士！'

A female figure, closely veiled, stands in the middle of the room, where the light falls upon it. It is quite still and silent. The front of the figure is towards them, but it takes no notice of their entrance and remains like a statue.
一个女性身影，蒙着面纱，站在房间中央，光线照射在房间中央。周围十分安静。那人影的正面正对着他们，但它并没有注意到他们的到来，仍然像一尊雕像一样。

‘Now, tell me,’ says Bucket aloud, ‘how you know that to be the lady.’
“现在，告诉我，”巴克特大声说道，“你怎么知道那是那位女士。”

‘I know the wale,’ replies Jo, staring, ‘and the bonnet, and the gownd.’
“我了解威尔士的情况，”乔凝视着回答，“还有帽子和长袍。”

‘Be quite sure of what you say, Tough,’ returns Bucket, narrowly observant of him. ‘Look again.’
“要十分肯定你所说的话，强悍，”巴克特回答道，仔细地观察着他。 “再看看。”

‘I am a-looking as hard as ever I can look,’ says Jo with starting eyes, ‘and that there’s the wale, the bonnet, and the gownd.’
“我尽我最大的努力去寻找，”乔惊讶地说道，“还有那条条纹、那顶帽子和那件长袍。”

‘What about those rings you told me of?’ asks Bucket.
“你告诉我的那些戒指呢？”巴克特问道。

‘A-sparkling all over here,’ says Jo, rubbing the fingers of his left hand on the knuckles of his right without taking his eyes from the figure.
“这里到处都是闪闪发光的，”乔一边说，一边用左手的手指摩擦着右手的指关节，眼睛的目光始终没有离开这个人影。

The figure removes the right-hand glove and shows the hand.
该图摘掉了右手的手套并展示了手。

‘Now, what do you say to that?’ asks Bucket.
“现在，你对此有何看法？”巴克特问道。

Jo shakes his head. ‘Not rings a bit like them. Not a hand like that.’
乔摇摇头。 ‘听起来一点也不像他们。不是这样的手。

‘What are you talking of?’ says Bucket, evidently pleased though, and well pleased too.
“你在说什么？”巴克特说道，他显然很高兴，而且也很高兴。

‘Hand was a deal whiter, a deal delicater, and a deal smaller,’ returns Jo.
“手变得更白、更细腻、更小，”乔回答道。

‘Why, you’ll tell me I’m my own mother next,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Do you recollect the lady’s voice?’
“嘿，你接下来会告诉我我是我自己的母亲，”巴克特先生说。 “你还记得那位女士的声音吗？”

‘I think I does,’ says Jo.
“我想我知道，”乔说。

The figure speaks. ‘Was it at all like this? I will speak as long as you like if you are not sure. Was it this voice, or at all like this voice?’
人物会说话。 ‘原来是这样吗？如果你不确定的话，我会讲多久。是这个声音吗？或者根本就是这个声音？

Jo looks aghast at Mr. Bucket. ‘Not a bit!’
乔惊愕地看着巴克特先生。 “一点也不！”

‘Then, what,’ retorts that worthy, pointing to the figure, ‘did you say it was the lady for?’
“那么，什么？”那个值得尊敬的人指着那个人影反驳道，“你说这是那位女士的用途吗？”

‘Cos,’ says Jo with a perplexed stare but without being at all shaken in his certainty, ‘cos that there’s the wale, the bonnet, and the gownd. It is her and it an’t her. It an’t her hand, nor yet her rings, nor yet her woice. But that there’s the wale, the bonnet, and the gownd, and they’re wore the same way wot she wore ‘em, and it’s her height wot she wos, and she giv me a sov’ring and hooked it.’
“因为，”乔用困惑的眼神说道，但他的确定丝毫没有动摇，“因为那里有条纹、帽子和长袍。”这是她，又不是她。这不是她的手，也不是她的戒指，也不是她的声音。但那儿有条纹、帽子和长袍，它们的穿着方式和她穿的一样，而且她的身高是她的，她给了我一个索夫戒指并把它钩住了。

‘Well!’ says Mr. Bucket slightly, ‘we haven’t got much good out of YOU. But, however, here’s five shillings for you. Take care how you spend it, and don’t get yourself into trouble.’ Bucket stealthily tells the coins from one hand into the other like counters—which is a way he has, his principal use of them being in these games of skill—and then puts them, in a little pile, into the boy’s hand and takes him out to the door, leaving Mr. Snagsby, not by any means comfortable under these mysterious circumstances, alone with the veiled figure. But on Mr. Tulkinghorn’s coming into the room, the veil is raised and a sufficiently good-looking Frenchwoman is revealed, though her expression is something of the intensest.
“好吧！”巴克特先生淡淡地说，“我们从你那里得到的好处并不多。”不过，这里有五先令给你。小心你如何花掉它，不要给自己惹上麻烦。”巴克特像计数器一样偷偷地把硬币从一只手传到另一只手——这是他的一种方式，他主要用它们在这些技巧游戏中——然后把它们堆成一小堆，塞到男孩手里，带他到门口，留下斯纳斯比先生，在这种神秘的环境下，独自和那个蒙着面纱的人在一起，无论如何都感到不舒服。但当图金霍恩先生走进房间时，面纱被掀起，露出了一位相当漂亮的法国女人，尽管她的表情是最紧张的。

‘Thank you, Mademoiselle Hortense,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn with his usual equanimity. ‘I will give you no further trouble about this little wager.’
“谢谢您，霍滕斯小姐，”图金霍恩先生一如既往地平静地说。 “我不会再为这个小赌注给你添麻烦了。”

‘You will do me the kindness to remember, sir, that I am not at present placed?’ says mademoiselle.
“请您帮我记住，先生，我目前没有被安排？”小姐说道。

‘Certainly, certainly!’
“当然，当然！”

‘And to confer upon me the favour of your distinguished recommendation?’
“您杰出的推荐使我受益匪浅？”

‘By all means, Mademoiselle Hortense.’
“无论如何，霍滕斯小姐。”

‘A word from Mr. Tulkinghorn is so powerful.’
“图金霍恩先生的一句话是如此有力。”

‘It shall not be wanting, mademoiselle.’
“不会缺少的，小姐。”

‘Receive the assurance of my devoted gratitude, dear sir.’
“亲爱的先生，请接受我衷心的感激之情。”

‘Good night.’
'晚安。'

Mademoiselle goes out with an air of native gentility; and Mr. Bucket, to whom it is, on an emergency, as natural to be groom of the ceremonies as it is to be anything else, shows her downstairs, not without gallantry.
小姐出门时带着一种天生的绅士风度；巴克特先生，在紧急情况下，担任仪式的新郎就像担任其他任何事情一样自然，他带着她下楼，不无殷勤。

‘Well, Bucket?’ quoth Mr. Tulkinghorn on his return.
“怎么样，巴克特？”图金霍恩先生回来时问道。

‘It’s all squared, you see, as I squared it myself, sir. There an’t a doubt that it was the other one with this one’s dress on. The boy was exact respecting colours and everything. Mr. Snagsby, I promised you as a man that he should be sent away all right. Don’t say it wasn’t done!’
“你看，这都是平方的，就像我自己平方的一样，先生。毫无疑问，穿着这件衣服的是另一件。这个男孩非常尊重颜色和一切。斯纳斯比先生，我作为一个男人向你保证，他应该被送走。别说还没有完成！

‘You have kept your word, sir,’ returns the stationer; ‘and if I can be of no further use, Mr. Tulkinghorn, I think, as my little woman will be getting anxious—‘
“你遵守了诺言，先生。”文具店老板回答道。 “如果我不再有用，图尔金霍恩先生，我想，因为我的小女人会变得焦虑——”

‘Thank you, Snagsby, no further use,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘I am quite indebted to you for the trouble you have taken already.’
“谢谢你，斯纳格斯比，不再有用了，”图金霍恩先生说。 “我非常感谢你已经给我带来的麻烦。”

‘Not at all, sir. I wish you good night.’
“一点也不，先生。祝你晚安。'

‘You see, Mr. Snagsby,’ says Mr. Bucket, accompanying him to the door and shaking hands with him over and over again, ‘what I like in you is that you’re a man it’s of no use pumping; that’s what YOU are. When you know you have done a right thing, you put it away, and it’s done with and gone, and there’s an end of it. That’s what YOU do.’
“你看，斯纳斯比先生，”巴克特先生一边说着，一边陪着他走到门口，一遍又一遍地与他握手，“我喜欢你的一点是，你是一个男人，抽奶是没有用的；这就是你。当你知道你做了一件正确的事时，你就把它收起来，它就结束了，消失了，一切就结束了。这就是你所做的。

‘That is certainly what I endeavour to do, sir,’ returns Mr. Snagsby.
“这当然是我努力做的事情，先生，”斯纳斯比先生回答道。

‘No, you don’t do yourself justice. It an’t what you endeavour to do,’ says Mr. Bucket, shaking hands with him and blessing him in the tenderest manner, ‘it’s what you DO. That’s what I estimate in a man in your way of business.’
‘不，你没有公正地对待自己。 “这不是你努力做的事，”巴克特先生一边说，一边与他握手，并以最温柔的方式祝福他，“这就是你所做的事。”这就是我对从事你们生意的人的评价。

Mr. Snagsby makes a suitable response and goes homeward so confused by the events of the evening that he is doubtful of his being awake and out—doubtful of the reality of the streets through which he goes—doubtful of the reality of the moon that shines above him. He is presently reassured on these subjects by the unchallengeable reality of Mrs. Snagsby, sitting up with her head in a perfect beehive of curl-papers and night-cap, who has dispatched Guster to the police-station with official intelligence of her husband’s being made away with, and who within the last two hours has passed through every stage of swooning with the greatest decorum. But as the little woman feelingly says, many thanks she gets for it!
斯纳斯比先生做出了适当的回应，然后回家了，他对晚上发生的事情感到非常困惑，以至于他怀疑自己是否醒着并出去了——怀疑他所经过的街道的真实性——怀疑月亮照耀的真实性在他上方。目前，斯纳格斯比夫人的无可争议的现实让他对这些问题感到放心，她坐在一个由卷发纸和睡帽组成的完美蜂巢里，她已将古斯特派往警察局，并提供了有关她丈夫失踪的官方情报。被带走了，在过去的两个小时内，他以最大的礼节度过了昏迷的每个阶段。但正如小女人感慨地说，她为此得到了很多感谢！

CHAPTER XXIII
第二十三章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

We came home from Mr. Boythorn’s after six pleasant weeks. We were often in the park and in the woods and seldom passed the lodge where we had taken shelter without looking in to speak to the keeper’s wife; but we saw no more of Lady Dedlock, except at church on Sundays. There was company at Chesney Wold; and although several beautiful faces surrounded her, her face retained the same influence on me as at first. I do not quite know even now whether it was painful or pleasurable, whether it drew me towards her or made me shrink from her. I think I admired her with a kind of fear, and I know that in her presence my thoughts always wandered back, as they had done at first, to that old time of my life.
愉快的六个星期后，我们从博伊索恩先生家回到家。我们经常在公园里和树林里，每次经过我们避难的小屋时，我们都会向看门人的妻子询问。但除了周日去教堂外，我们再也没有见到戴德洛克夫人。切斯尼沃尔德有同伴；虽然她周围有几张美丽的面孔，但她的脸对我的影响仍然和最初一样。即使现在我也不太清楚那是痛苦还是快乐，是把我吸引到她身边还是让我远离她。我想我怀着一种恐惧的心情仰慕她，而且我知道，在她面前，我的思绪总是会像最初一样，回到我生命中的旧时光。

I had a fancy, on more than one of these Sundays, that what this lady so curiously was to me, I was to her—I mean that I disturbed her thoughts as she influenced mine, though in some different way. But when I stole a glance at her and saw her so composed and distant and unapproachable, I felt this to be a foolish weakness. Indeed, I felt the whole state of my mind in reference to her to be weak and unreasonable, and I remonstrated with myself about it as much as I could.
在这些周日中，我不止一次地幻想过，这位女士对我来说如此奇怪，我对她来说也是如此——我的意思是，当她影响我的想法时，我扰乱了她的想法，尽管以某种不同的方式。但当我偷偷瞥了她一眼，看到她如此平静、疏远、难以接近时，我觉得这是一个愚蠢的弱点。确实，我觉得自己对她的整个心态是软弱和不合理的，我尽我所能地告诫自己。

One incident that occurred before we quitted Mr. Boythorn’s house, I had better mention in this place.
在我们离开博伊索恩先生家之前发生的一件事，我最好在这里提一下。

I was walking in the garden with Ada and when I was told that some one wished to see me. Going into the breakfast-room where this person was waiting, I found it to be the French maid who had cast off her shoes and walked through the wet grass on the day when it thundered and lightened.
我和艾达在花园里散步，有人告诉我有人想见我。走进早餐厅，这个人正在等候，我发现是那位法国女佣，在雷鸣闪电的那天，脱掉鞋子，走过湿漉漉的草地。

‘Mademoiselle,’ she began, looking fixedly at me with her too-eager eyes, though otherwise presenting an agreeable appearance and speaking neither with boldness nor servility, ‘I have taken a great liberty in coming here, but you know how to excuse it, being so amiable, mademoiselle.’
“小姐，”她开始用她过于热切的眼睛盯着我，尽管她的外表很讨人喜欢，说话既不大胆也不卑鄙，“我来这里是冒昧的，但你知道如何原谅它。” ，真是和蔼可亲，小姐。”

‘No excuse is necessary,’ I returned, ‘if you wish to speak to me.’
“如果你想跟我说话，”我回答道，“没有必要找借口。”

‘That is my desire, mademoiselle. A thousand thanks for the permission. I have your leave to speak. Is it not?’ she said in a quick, natural way.
“这就是我的愿望，小姐。一千次感谢您的许可。请允许我发言。不是吗？”她快速而自然地说道。

‘Certainly,’ said I.
“当然，”我说。

‘Mademoiselle, you are so amiable! Listen then, if you please. I have left my Lady. We could not agree. My Lady is so high, so very high. Pardon! Mademoiselle, you are right!’ Her quickness anticipated what I might have said presently but as yet had only thought. ‘It is not for me to come here to complain of my Lady. But I say she is so high, so very high. I will not say a word more. All the world knows that.’
‘小姐，你真是太和蔼可亲了！那就听听吧，如果你愿意的话。我已经离开了我的夫人。我们无法同意。我的夫人是如此之高，如此之高。赦免！小姐，你是对的！”她的敏捷预见到了我现在可能会说的话，但目前还只是想到。 “我来这里不是为了抱怨夫人。但我说她太高了，太高了。我不再多说一个字。全世界都知道这一点。

‘Go on, if you please,’ said I.
“请继续吧，”我说。

‘Assuredly; mademoiselle, I am thankful for your politeness. Mademoiselle, I have an inexpressible desire to find service with a young lady who is good, accomplished, beautiful. You are good, accomplished, and beautiful as an angel. Ah, could I have the honour of being your domestic!’
‘当然；小姐，我很感谢你的礼貌。小姐，我有一种难以言表的渴望，想要找到一位善良、多才多艺、美丽的年轻女士为我服务。你善良、多才多艺、美丽如天使。啊，我能有幸成为您的仆人吗！

‘I am sorry—‘ I began.
“对不起——”我开始说道。

‘Do not dismiss me so soon, mademoiselle!’ she said with an involuntary contraction of her fine black eyebrows. ‘Let me hope a moment! Mademoiselle, I know this service would be more retired than that which I have quitted. Well! I wish that. I know this service would be less distinguished than that which I have quitted. Well! I wish that, I know that I should win less, as to wages here. Good. I am content.’
“别这么快就打发我走，小姐！”她说道，黑色的细眉毛不由自主地收缩起来。 ‘让我希望一下吧！小姐，我知道这项服务会比我退出的服务更退休。出色地！我希望。我知道这项服务不如我已经退出的服务那么出色。出色地！我希望，我知道我应该少赢一点，就像这里的工资一样。好的。我满足了。'

‘I assure you,’ said I, quite embarrassed by the mere idea of having such an attendant, ‘that I keep no maid—‘
“我向你保证，”我说，一想到有这样一个侍从，我就感到很尴尬，“我没有留女仆——”

‘Ah, mademoiselle, but why not? Why not, when you can have one so devoted to you! Who would be enchanted to serve you; who would be so true, so zealous, and so faithful every day! Mademoiselle, I wish with all my heart to serve you. Do not speak of money at present. Take me as I am. For nothing!’
“啊，小姐，但为什么不呢？为什么不呢，当你能拥有一个如此忠诚于你的人时！谁会乐意为您服务；谁会每天都如此真实、如此热心、如此忠诚！小姐，我竭诚为您服务。目前不谈钱。拿我当我是。不求回报！'

She was so singularly earnest that I drew back, almost afraid of her. Without appearing to notice it, in her ardour she still pressed herself upon me, speaking in a rapid subdued voice, though always with a certain grace and propriety.
她是如此的认真，以至于我退缩了，几乎害怕她。她似乎没有注意到这一点，她仍然热情地把自己压在我身上，用一种快速而柔和的声音说话，尽管总是带着某种优雅和得体。

‘Mademoiselle, I come from the South country where we are quick and where we like and dislike very strong. My Lady was too high for me; I was too high for her. It is done—past—finlshed! Receive me as your domestic, and I will serve you well. I will do more for you than you figure to yourself now. Chut! Mademoiselle, I will— no matter, I will do my utmost possible in all things. If you accept my service, you will not repent it. Mademoiselle, you will not repent it, and I will serve you well. You don’t know how well!’
“小姐，我来自南方国家，那里的人行动敏捷，喜欢和不喜欢的东西都非常强烈。夫人对我来说太高了；我对她来说太高了。已经完成了——过去了——完成了！接待我作为你的家眷，我会好好为你服务的。我会为你做的比你现在想象的还要多。呸！小姐，我会——无论如何，我会尽力而为。如果你接受我的服务，你就不会后悔。小姐，您不会反悔的，我会好好为您服务的。你不知道有多好！

There was a lowering energy in her face as she stood looking at me while I explained the impossibility of my engagmg her (without thinking it necessary to say how very little I desired to do so), which seemed to bring visibly before me some woman from the streets of Paris in the reign of terror.
当我解释我不可能与她交往时，她的脸上有一种低沉的能量（我不认为有必要说我多么不愿意这样做），这似乎让我明显地看到了来自某个国家的女人。恐怖统治下的巴黎街头。

She heard me out without interruption and then said with her pretty accent and in her mildest voice, ‘Hey, mademoiselle, I have received my answer! I am sorry of it. But I must go elsewhere and seek what I have not found here. Will you graciously let me kiss your hand?’
她没有打断地听我说完，然后用她漂亮的口音和最温和的声音说：“嘿，小姐，我收到了答复！”我对此感到抱歉。但我必须去别处寻找我在这里没有找到的东西。你能慷慨地让我亲吻你的手吗？

She looked at me more intently as she took it, and seemed to take note, with her momentary touch, of every vein in it. ‘I fear I surprised you, mademoiselle, on the day of the storm?’ she said with a parting curtsy.
当她接过它时，她更加专注地看着我，似乎通过她短暂的触摸，注意到了它的每一根静脉。 “暴风雨那天，小姐，我恐怕让你吃了一惊吧？”她临别时行了一个屈膝礼。

I confessed that she had surprised us all.
我承认她让我们所有人都感到惊讶。

‘I took an oath, mademoiselle,’ she said, smiling, ‘and I wanted to stamp it on my mind so that I might keep it faithfully. And I will! Adieu, mademoiselle!’
“我发过誓，小姐，”她微笑着说，“我想把它铭记在心，这样我就可以忠实地遵守它。我会的！再见，小姐！”

So ended our conference, which I was very glad to bring to a close. I supposed she went away from the village, for I saw her no more; and nothing else occurred to disturb our tranquil summer pleasures until six weeks were out and we returned home as I began just now by saying.
我们的会议就这样结束了，我很高兴结束了这次会议。我猜想她已经离开了村子，因为我再也见不到她了。没有发生任何其他事情来打扰我们宁静的夏日乐趣，直到六个星期结束，我们回到家，就像我刚才开始说的那样。

At that time, and for a good many weeks after that time, Richard was constant in his visits. Besides coming every Saturday or Sunday and remaining with us until Monday morning, he sometimes rode out on horseback unexpectedly and passed the evening with us and rode back again early next day. He was as vivacious as ever and told us he was very industrious, but I was not easy in my mind about him. It appeared to me that his industry was all misdirected. I could not find that it led to anything but the formation of delusive hopes in connexion with the suit already the pernicious cause of so much sorrow and ruin. He had got at the core of that mystery now, he told us, and nothing could be plainer than that the will under which he and Ada were to take I don’t know how many thousands of pounds must be finally established if there were any sense or justice in the Court of Chancery—but oh, what a great IF that sounded in my ears—and that this happy conclusion could not be much longer delayed. He proved this to himself by all the weary arguments on that side he had read, and every one of them sunk him deeper in the infatuation. He had even begun to haunt the court. He told us how he saw Miss Flite there daily, how they talked together, and how he did her little kindnesses, and how, while he laughed at her, he pitied her from his heart. But he never thought—never, my poor, dear, sanguine Richard, capable of so much happiness then, and with such better things before him— what a fatal link was riveting between his fresh youth and her faded age, between his free hopes and her caged birds, and her hungry garret, and her wandering mind.
那时，以及此后的好几个星期，理查德不断地来访。除了每周六、周日来，和我们待到周一早上外，他有时会出人意料地骑马出去，和我们一起度过一个晚上，第二天一早又骑马回来。他一如既往的活泼，告诉我们他很勤奋，但我对他的心里并不轻松。在我看来，他的行业都被误导了。我发现它不会导致任何结果，除了与诉讼有关的虚幻希望的形成之外，诉讼已经成为如此多的悲伤和毁灭的有害原因。他告诉我们，他现在已经掌握了这个谜团的核心，没有什么比他和艾达将承担的遗嘱更清楚的了。我不知道如果有的话，最终必须建立多少数千英镑衡平法院的理智或正义——但是，哦，这在我耳中听起来是多么伟大的如果——而且这个幸福的结论不能再拖延太久了。他通过读过的所有令人厌烦的论点向自己证明了这一点，每一个论点都让他陷入了更深的迷恋。他甚至开始在法庭上出没。他告诉我们他每天如何在那里见到弗利特小姐，他们如何在一起交谈，以及他如何对她做点小善事，以及如何在嘲笑她的同时，如何从内心怜悯她。但他从来没有想过——我可怜的、亲爱的、乐观的理查德，当时能够享受如此多的幸福，面前有如此美好的事情——他的新鲜青春和她褪色的年龄之间，他自由的希望和她的自由之间有多么致命的联系。她关在笼子里的鸟儿，她饥饿的阁楼，还有她游荡的思绪。

Ada loved him too well to mistrust him much in anything he said or did, and my guardian, though he frequently complained of the east wind and read more than usual in the growlery, preserved a strict silence on the subject. So I thought one day when I went to London to meet Caddy Jellyby, at her solicitation, I would ask Richard to be in waiting for me at the coach-office, that we might have a little talk together. I found him there when I arrived, and we walked away arm in arm.
艾达太爱他了，不会对他所说或所做的任何事情抱有太多的不信任，而我的监护人，尽管他经常抱怨东风，并且在咆哮声中读得比平时更多，但在这个问题上却保持着严格的沉默。所以我想有一天，当我去伦敦见球童杰利比时，在她的恳求下，我会请理查德在教练办公室等我，我们可以一起聊聊。当我到达时，我发现了他，我们手挽着手走开了。

‘Well, Richard,’ said I as soon as I could begin to be grave with him, ‘are you beginning to feel more settled now?’
“好吧，理查德，”当我开始对他严肃起来时，我说道，“你现在开始感觉更安定了吗？”

‘Oh, yes, my dear!’ returned Richard. ‘I’m all right enough.’
“噢，是的，亲爱的！”理查德回答道。 “我没事。”

‘But settled?’ said I.
“但是已经解决了吗？”我说。

‘How do you mean, settled?’ returned Richard with his gay laugh.
“你的意思是，解决了？”理查德带着欢快的笑声回答道。

‘Settled in the law,’ said I.
“按照法律解决，”我说。

‘Oh, aye,’ replied Richard, ‘I’m all right enough.’
“哦，是的，”理查德回答道，“我很好。”

‘You said that before, my dear Richard.’
“你以前说过，我亲爱的理查德。”

‘And you don’t think it’s an answer, eh? Well! Perhaps it’s not. Settled? You mean, do I feel as if I were settling down?’
“你不认为这是一个答案，是吗？出色地！也许不是。解决了吗？你的意思是，我感觉自己好像安定下来了吗？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Why, no, I can’t say I am settling down,’ said Richard, strongly emphasizing ‘down,’ as if that expressed the difficulty, ‘because one can’t settle down while this business remains in such an unsettled state. When I say this business, of course I mean the— forbidden subject.’
“为什么，不，我不能说我正在安定下来，”理查德说，他强烈强调了“下来”，仿佛这表达了困难，“因为当这项业务仍处于如此不稳定的状态时，人们无法安定下来。”当我说这件事时，我当然指的是——禁止的话题。

‘Do you think it will ever be in a settled state?’ said I.
“你认为它会处于稳定状态吗？”我说。

‘Not the least doubt of it,’ answered Richard.
“毫无疑问，”理查德回答道。

We walked a little way without speaking, and presently Richard addressed me in his frankest and most feeling manner, thus: ‘My dear Esther, I understand you, and I wish to heaven I were a more constant sort of fellow. I don’t mean constant to Ada, for I love her dearly—better and better every day—but constant to myself. (Somehow, I mean something that I can’t very well express, but you’ll make it out.) If I were a more constant sort of fellow, I should have held on either to Badger or to Kenge and Carboy like grim death, and should have begun to be steady and systematic by this time, and shouldn’t be in debt, and—‘
我们走了一段路，没有说话，不久理查德就以他最坦率、最感人的方式对我说道：“亲爱的埃丝特，我理解你，但愿我是一个更加坚定的人。”我并不是说对艾达始终如一，因为我深爱着她——每天都越来越好——而是对我自己始终如一。 （不知何故，我的意思是一些我无法很好表达的东西，但你会明白的。）如果我是一个更坚定的人，我应该像死神一样紧紧抓住獾或肯吉和卡博伊，此时应该已经开始稳定和系统化，不应该负债累累，而且——”

‘ARE you in debt, Richard?’
“理查德，你欠债了吗？”

‘Yes,’ said Richard, ‘I am a little so, my dear. Also, I have taken rather too much to billiards and that sort of thing. Now the murder’s out; you despise me, Esther, don’t you?’
“是的，”理查德说，“我有点这样，亲爱的。另外，我对台球之类的事情也玩得太多了。现在谋杀案已经结束了；你鄙视我，埃丝特，不是吗？

‘You know I don’t,’ said I.
“你知道我不知道，”我说。

‘You are kinder to me than I often am to myself,’ he returned. ‘My dear Esther, I am a very unfortunate dog not to be more settled, but how CAN I be more settled? If you lived in an unfinished house, you couldn’t settle down in it; if you were condemned to leave everything you undertook unfinished, you would find it hard to apply yourself to anything; and yet that’s my unhappy case. I was born into this unfinished contention with all its chances and changes, and it began to unsettle me before I quite knew the difference between a suit at law and a suit of clothes; and it has gone on unsettling me ever since; and here I am now, conscious sometimes that I am but a worthless fellow to love my confiding cousin Ada.’
“你对我比我平时对自己更好，”他回答道。 “我亲爱的艾丝特，我是一只非常不幸的狗，无法安定下来，但我怎样才能安定下来呢？”如果你住在未完工的房子里，你就无法在里面安定下来；如果你注定要放弃你所从事的一切未完成的事情，你会发现很难全身心投入到任何事情中；但这就是我不幸的例子。我出生在这场未完成的争论中，伴随着它的各种机会和变化，在我完全了解法律诉讼和一套衣服之间的区别之前，它开始让我感到不安；从那时起，它就一直让我感到不安；现在我就在这里，有时意识到我只是一个毫无价值的人来爱我信任的表弟艾达。

We were in a solitary place, and he put his hands before his eyes and sobbed as he said the words.
我们在一个僻静的地方，他把手放在眼前，一边抽泣一边说着这句话。

‘Oh, Richard!’ said I. ‘Do not be so moved. You have a noble nature, and Ada’s love may make you worthier every day.’
“哦，理查德！”我说，“别这么感动。”你有高尚的本性，艾达的爱可能会让你每天都变得更有价值。

‘I know, my dear,’ he replied, pressing my arm, ‘I know all that. You mustn’t mind my being a little soft now, for I have had all this upon my mind for a long time, and have often meant to speak to you, and have sometimes wanted opportunity and sometimes courage. I know what the thought of Ada ought to do for me, but it doesn’t do it. I am too unsettled even for that. I love her most devotedly, and yet I do her wrong, in doing myself wrong, every day and hour. But it can’t last for ever. We shall come on for a final hearing and get judgment in our favour, and then you and Ada shall see what I can really be!’
“我知道，亲爱的，”他按着我的手臂回答，“我都知道。”你不要介意我现在有点软弱，因为这一切我已经想了很长时间了，并且经常想和你说话，有时需要机会，有时需要勇气。我知道艾达的想法应该为我做什么，但它没有这么做。即使这样我也感到不安。我全心全意地爱着她，但我日复一日、时时刻刻都做错了她，也做错了自己。但它不可能永远持续下去。我们将参加最后的听证会并获得对我们有利的判决，然后你和艾达就会看到我到底能成为什么样的人！

It had given me a pang to hear him sob and see the tears start out between his fingers, but that was infinitely less affecting to me than the hopeful animation with which he said these words.
听到他抽泣，看到他手指间流下泪水，我感到很痛苦，但这对我的影响远不如他说这些话时充满希望的活力。

‘I have looked well into the papers, Esther. I have been deep in them for months,’ he continued, recovering his cheerfulness in a moment, ‘and you may rely upon it that we shall come out triumphant. As to years of delay, there has been no want of them, heaven knows! And there is the greater probability of our bringing the matter to a speedy close; in fact, it’s on the paper now. It will be all right at last, and then you shall see!’
“我已经仔细研究过报纸了，埃丝特。我已经深陷其中几个月了，”他继续说道，一会儿又恢复了快乐，“你可以相信我们会取得胜利。至于这么多年的耽搁，根本就不需要，天知道！我们更有可能迅​​速结束这件事；事实上，现在已经写在纸上了。一切都会好起来的，然后你就会看到了！

Recalling how he had just now placed Messrs. Kenge and Carboy in the same category with Mr. Badger, I asked him when he intended to be articled in Lincoln’s Inn.
回想起他刚刚将肯格先生和卡博伊先生与巴杰先生归为同一类，我问他打算什么时候在《林肯律师学院》上发表文章。

‘There again! I think not at all, Esther,’ he returned with an effort. ‘I fancy I have had enough of it. Having worked at Jarndyce and Jarndyce like a galley slave, I have slaked my thirst for the law and satisfied myself that I shouldn’t like it. Besides, I find it unsettles me more and more to be so constantly upon the scene of action. So what,’ continued Richard, confident again by this time, ‘do I naturally turn my thoughts to?’
‘又来了！我想一点也不，埃丝特，”他努力回答道。 “我想我已经受够了。在加迪斯和加迪斯像厨房奴隶一样工作后，我满足了自己对法律的渴望，并满足了自己，我不应该喜欢它。此外，我发现不断地出现在行动现场让我越来越不安。那又怎么样，”理查德继续说道，此时他又恢复了自信，“我自然而然地把我的想法转向什么？”

‘I can’t imagine,’ said I.
“我无法想象，”我说。

‘Don’t look so serious,’ returned Richard, ‘because it’s the best thing I can do, my dear Esther, I am certain. It’s not as if I wanted a profession for life. These proceedings will come to a termination, and then I am provided for. No. I look upon it as a pursuit which is in its nature more or less unsettled, and therefore suited to my temporary condition—I may say, precisely suited. What is it that I naturally turn my thoughts to?’
“别显得那么严肃，”理查德回答道，“因为这是我能做的最好的事情，我亲爱的埃丝特，我确信。这并不是说我想要终生从事一个职业。这些程序将会结束，然后我就会得到照顾。不，我把它看作是一种本质上或多或少不稳定的追求，因此适合我暂时的状况——我可以说，完全适合。我自然会想到什么？

I looked at him and shook my head.
我看着他，摇了摇头。

‘What,’ said Richard, in a tone of perfect conviction, ‘but the army!’
“什么，”理查德用一种绝对确信的语气说道，“但是军队！”

‘The army?’ said I.
“军队？”我说。

‘The army, of course. What I have to do is to get a commission; and—there I am, you know!’ said Richard.
“当然是军队。我要做的就是拿到佣金；而且——我就在那里，你知道！”理查德说。

And then he showed me, proved by elaborate calculations in his pocket-book, that supposing he had contracted, say, two hundred pounds of debt in six months out of the army; and that he contracted no debt at all within a corresponding period in the army—as to which he had quite made up his mind; this step must involve a saving of four hundred pounds in a year, or two thousand pounds in five years, which was a considerable sum. And then he spoke so ingenuously and sincerely of the sacrifice he made in withdrawing himself for a time from Ada, and of the earnestness with which he aspired—as in thought he always did, I know full well—to repay her love, and to ensure her happiness, and to conquer what was amiss in himself, and to acquire the very soul of decision, that he made my heart ache keenly, sorely. For, I thought, how would this end, how could this end, when so soon and so surely all his manly qualities were touched by the fatal blight that ruined everything it rested on!
然后他向我展示，他的钱包里的详细计算证明了，假设他在六个月内从军队中欠下了两百英镑的债务；他在军队的相应时期内没有欠过任何债务——对此他已经下定决心了；这一步骤必须在一年内节省四百英镑，或者在五年内节省两千英镑，这是一笔相当大的数目。然后他如此天真而真诚地谈到他暂时离开艾达而做出的牺牲，以及他渴望的真诚——就像他一直在想的那样，我很清楚——报答她的爱，并确保她的幸福，并克服自己的毛病，并获得决定的灵魂，他让我的心剧烈地疼痛。因为，我想，这将如何结束，这怎么可能结束，当他所有的男子气概都如此迅速且肯定地被致命的枯萎病所触动时，毁灭了它所赖以生存的一切！

I spoke to Richard with all the earnestness I felt, and all the hope I could not quite feel then, and implored him for Ada’s sake not to put any trust in Chancery. To all I said, Richard readily assented, riding over the court and everything else in his easy way and drawing the brightest pictures of the character he was to settle into—alas, when the grievous suit should loose its hold upon him! We had a long talk, but it always came back to that, in substance.
我带着我当时无法感受到的全部真诚和所有希望与理查德交谈，并恳求他看在艾达的份上不要相信大法官办公室。对于我所说的一切，理查德欣然同意，以他轻松的方式驰骋在法庭和其他一切事物上，为他将要融入的角色画出最明亮的图画——唉，当那场严重的诉讼失去对他的控制时！我们聊了很长一段时间，但最终还是回到了实质内容。

At last we came to Soho Square, where Caddy Jellyby had appointed to wait for me, as a quiet place in the neighbourhood of Newman Street. Caddy was in the garden in the centre and hurried out as soon as I appeared. After a few cheerful words, Richard left us together.
最后我们来到了苏荷广场，球童杰利比约定在那里等我，那是纽曼街附近的一个安静的地方。球童在中央的花园里，我一出现就急忙跑了出去。理查德说了几句欢快的话后，就和我们一起离开了。

‘Prince has a pupil over the way, Esther,’ said Caddy, ‘and got the key for us. So if you will walk round and round here with me, we can lock ourselves in and I can tell you comfortably what I wanted to see your dear good face about.’
“王子在那边有一个学生，艾丝特，”凯迪说，“他帮我们拿了钥匙。”所以，如果你愿意和我一起在这里走来走去，我们就可以把自己锁在里面，我可以轻松地告诉你我想看到你亲爱的好脸孔。

‘Very well, my dear,’ said I. ‘Nothing could be better.’ So Caddy, after affectionately squeezing the dear good face as she called it, locked the gate, and took my arm, and we began to walk round the garden very cosily.
“很好，亲爱的，”我说，“没有比这更好的了。”于是卡迪深情地捏了捏她所说的亲爱的好脸蛋，然后锁上了门，挽起了我的手臂，我们开始绕着花园散步。非常舒适。

‘You see, Esther,’ said Caddy, who thoroughly enjoyed a little confidence, ‘after you spoke to me about its being wrong to marry without Ma’s knowledge, or even to keep Ma long in the dark respecting our engagement—though I don’t believe Ma cares much for me, I must say—I thought it right to mention your opinions to Prince. In the first place because I want to profit by everything you tell me, and in the second place because I have no secrets from Prince.’
“你看，埃丝特，”凯迪说，她完全享受到了一点自信，“在你告诉我在妈妈不知情的情况下结婚是错误的，甚至让妈妈长期蒙在鼓里尊重我们的订婚是错误的——尽管我不这么认为。”我不相信妈妈很关心我，我必须说——我认为向普林斯提及你的意见是正确的。首先是因为我想从你告诉我的一切中获益，其次是因为我对普林斯没有秘密。

‘I hope he approved, Caddy?’
“我希望他批准了，凯迪？”

‘Oh, my dear! I assure you he would approve of anything you could say. You have no idea what an opimon he has of you!’
'哦，我亲爱的！我向你保证他会赞同你所说的任何话。你不知道他对你有什么看法！

‘Indeed!’
'的确！'

‘Esther, it’s enough to make anybody but me jealous,’ said Caddy, laughing and shaking her head; ‘but it only makes me joyful, for you are the first friend I ever had, and the best friend I ever can have, and nobody can respect and love you too much to please me.’
“埃丝特，这足以让除了我以外的任何人嫉妒，”凯蒂笑着摇摇头说道。 “但这只会让我感到高兴，因为你是我第一个朋友，也是我能拥有的最好的朋友，没有人会因为太尊重和爱你而让我高兴。”

‘Upon my word, Caddy,’ said I, ‘you are in the general conspiracy to keep me in a good humour. Well, my dear?’
“老实说，凯迪，”我说，“你是在密谋让我保持良好的心情。怎么样，亲爱的？

‘Well! I am going to tell you,’ replied Caddy, crossing her hands confidentially upon my arm. ‘So we talked a good deal about it, and so I said to Prince, ‘Prince, as Miss Summerson—‘
'出色地！我要告诉你，”凯蒂回答道，她的双手秘密地交叉在我的手臂上。 “所以我们对此谈了很多，所以我对普林斯说，‘普林斯，作为萨默森小姐——’

‘I hope you didn’t say ‘Miss Summerson’?’
“我希望你没有说‘萨默森小姐’？”

‘No. I didn’t!’ cried Caddy, greatly pleased and with the brightest of faces. ‘I said, ‘Esther.’ I said to Prince, ‘As Esther is decidedly of that opinion, Prince, and has expressed it to me, and always hints it when she writes those kind notes, which you are so fond of hearing me read to you, I am prepared to disclose the truth to Ma whenever you think proper. And I think, Prince,’ said I, ‘that Esther thinks that I should be in a better, and truer, and more honourable position altogether if you did the same to your papa.’’
'不。我没有！”凯迪大声喊道，他非常高兴，脸上的表情最明亮。 “我说，‘以斯帖。’我对普林斯说，‘因为埃丝特绝对同意这个观点，普林斯，她已经向我表达了这一点，并且当她写下那些善意的便条时，她总是暗示这一点，你很喜欢听我说这些。读给你听，我准备在你认为合适的时候向马云透露真相。我认为，王子，”我说，“埃斯特认为，如果你对你的爸爸做同样的事情，我应该处于一个更好、更真实、更光荣的地位。”

‘Yes, my dear,’ said I. ‘Esther certainly does think so.’
“是的，亲爱的，”我说，“埃丝特确实这么认为。”

‘So I was right, you see!’ exclaimed Caddy. ‘Well! This troubled Prince a good deal, not because he had the least doubt about it, but because he is so considerate of the feelings of old Mr. Turveydrop; and he had his apprehensions that old Mr. Turveydrop might break his heart, or faint away, or be very much overcome in some affecting manner or other if he made such an announcement. He feared old Mr. Turveydrop might consider it undutiful and might receive too great a shock. For old Mr. Turveydrop’s deportment is very beautiful, you know, Esther,’ said Caddy, ‘and his feelings are extremely sensitive.’
“所以我是对的，你看！”凯迪喊道。 '出色地！这让普林斯很烦恼，不是因为他对此有丝毫怀疑，而是因为他太考虑老特维德罗普先生的感受了；他担心老特维德罗普先生如果宣布了这样的消息，可能会心碎，或者晕倒，或者以某种感人的方式被极大地克服。他担心老特维德罗普先生可能会认为这是不负责任的行为，并可能会受到太大的打击。因为老特维德罗普先生的举止非常漂亮，你知道，艾丝特，”卡迪说，“而且他的感情极其敏感。”

‘Are they, my dear?’
“是吗，亲爱的？”

‘Oh, extremely sensitive. Prince says so. Now, this has caused my darling child—I didn’t mean to use the expression to you, Esther,’ Caddy apologized, her face suffused with blushes, ‘but I generally call Prince my darling child.’
‘哦，非常敏感。王子如此说道。现在，这引起了我亲爱的孩子——我不是故意对你用这个表达方式的，埃丝特，”卡迪道歉，她的脸泛着红晕，“但我通常称普林斯为我亲爱的孩子。

I laughed; and Caddy laughed and blushed, and went on’
我笑了;凯蒂笑了，脸红了，然后继续说。

‘This has caused him, Esther—‘
“这导致他，埃斯特——”

‘Caused whom, my dear?’
“因为谁，亲爱的？”

‘Oh, you tiresome thing!’ said Caddy, laughing, with her pretty face on fire. ‘My darling child, if you insist upon it! This has caused him weeks of uneasiness and has made him delay, from day to day, in a very anxious manner. At last he said to me, ‘Caddy, if Miss Summerson, who is a great favourite with my father, could be prevailed upon to be present when I broke the subject, I think I could do it.’ So I promised I would ask you. And I made up my mind, besides,’ said Caddy, looking at me hopefully but timidly, ‘that if you consented, I would ask you afterwards to come with me to Ma. This is what I meant when I said in my note that I had a great favour and a great assistance to beg of you. And if you thought you could grant it, Esther, we should both be very grateful.’
“噢，你这个令人厌烦的东西！”凯迪笑着说道，她漂亮的脸庞着火了。 “我亲爱的孩子，如果你坚持的话！这给他带来了数周的不安，并让他日复一日地拖延，非常焦虑。最后他对我说：“凯迪，如果我能说服我父亲最喜欢的萨默森小姐在我打破这个话题时在场，我想我可以做到。”所以我答应我会问。你。此外，我还决定，”凯迪满怀希望但胆怯地看着我，说道，“如果你同意，我会请你随后跟我一起去妈妈那里。这就是我在便条中说我向您请求一个大恩惠和大帮助时的意思。如果你认为你可以同意，埃丝特，我们都应该非常感激。

‘Let me see, Caddy,’ said I, pretending to consider. ‘Really, I think I could do a greater thing than that if the need were pressing. I am at your service and the darling child’s, my dear, whenever you like.’
“让我想想，凯迪，”我假装思考着说道。 “真的，我认为如果需求紧迫的话，我可以做比这更伟大的事情。亲爱的，只要您愿意，我随时为您和亲爱的孩子服务。

Caddy was quite transported by this reply of mine, being, I believe, as susceptible to the least kindness or encouragement as any tender heart that ever beat in this world; and after another turn or two round the garden, during which she put on an entirely new pair of gloves and made herself as resplendent as possible that she might do no avoidable discredit to the Master of Deportment, we went to Newman Street direct.
凯迪对我的回答感到非常感动，我相信，他就像这个世界上任何一颗温柔的心一样，容易受到哪怕是最起码的善意或鼓励。又绕着花园转了一两圈，期间她戴上了一副全新的手套，把自己打扮得尽可能光鲜亮丽，以免对仪态大师造成不可避免的损害，我们直接去了纽曼街。

Prince was teaching, of course. We found him engaged with a not very hopeful pupil—a stubborn little girl with a sulky forehead, a deep voice, and an inanimate, dissatisfied mama—whose case was certainly not rendered more hopeful by the confusion into which we threw her preceptor. The lesson at last came to an end, after proceeding as discordantly as possible; and when the little girl had changed her shoes and had had her white muslin extinguished in shawls, she was taken away. After a few words of preparation, we then went in search of Mr. Turveydrop, whom we found, grouped with his hat and gloves, as a model of deportment, on the sofa in his private apartment—the only comfortable room in the house. He appeared to have dressed at his leisure in the intervals of a light collation, and his dressing-case, brushes, and so forth, all of quite an elegant kind, lay about.
当然，普林斯正在教学。我们发现他和一个不太有希望的学生交往——一个顽固的小女孩，额头阴沉，声音低沉，还有一个毫无生气、不满的妈妈——我们让她的老师陷入混乱，她的情况当然没有变得更有希望。在尽可能不和谐地进行之后，这堂课终于结束了。当小女孩换了鞋子，并用围巾擦干她的白色平纹细布后，她就被带走了。经过几句话的准备，我们就去寻找特维德罗普先生，我们发现他戴着帽子和手套，坐在他私人公寓的沙发上——这栋房子里唯一舒适的房间。他似乎在闲暇时穿得很轻松，他的化妆盒、刷子等等，全都相当优雅，散落在各处。

‘Father, Miss Summerson; Miss Jellyby.’
“父亲，萨默森小姐；杰利比小姐。

‘Charmed! Enchanted!’ said Mr. Turveydrop, rising with his highshouldered bow. ‘Permit me!’ Handing chairs. ‘Be seated!’ Kissing the tips of his left fingers. ‘Overjoyed!’ Shutting his eyes and rolling. ‘My little retreat is made a paradise.’ Recomposing himself on the sofa like the second gentleman in Europe.
'迷住了！着迷了！”特维德罗普先生一边说，一边高举着他的高肩弓。 “请允许我！”把椅子递过来。 “坐下！”亲吻他左手的指尖。 “太高兴了！”闭上眼睛翻滚。 “我的小隐居处变成了天堂。”像欧洲第二位绅士一样在沙发上重新调整自己的心情。

‘Again you find us, Miss Summerson,’ said he, ‘using our little arts to polish, polish! Again the sex stimulates us and rewards us by the condescension of its lovely presence. It is much in these times (and we have made an awfully degenerating business of it since the days of his Royal Highness the Prince Regent—my patron, if I may presume to say so) to experience that deportment is not wholly trodden under foot by mechanics. That it can yet bask in the smile of beauty, my dear madam.’
“你又发现我们了，萨默森小姐，”他说，“用我们的小技巧来打磨，打磨！性再次通过它可爱的存在的屈尊来刺激我们并奖励我们。在这个时代（如果我可以这么说的话，我的赞助人摄政王殿下以来，我们已经做了一件非常堕落的事情），我们可以体会到，行为举止并没有完全被践踏在脚下。机械师。它仍然可以沐浴在美丽的微笑中，我亲爱的女士。

I said nothing, which I thought a suitable reply; and he took a pinch of snuff.
我什么也没说，我认为这是一个合适的回答；他吸了一口鼻烟。

‘My dear son,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, ‘you have four schools this afternoon. I would recommend a hasty sandwich.’
“我亲爱的儿子，”特维德罗普先生说，“今天下午你有四所学校。”我会推荐一份速食三明治。

‘Thank you, father,’ returned Prince, ‘I will be sure to be punctual. My dear father, may I beg you to prepare your mind for what I am going to say?’
“谢谢你，父亲，”普林斯回答道，“我一定会准时的。”我亲爱的父亲，我可以请求你为我要说的话做好准备吗？

‘Good heaven!’ exclaimed the model, pale and aghast as Prince and Caddy, hand in hand, bent down before him. ‘What is this? Is this lunacy! Or what is this?’
“天哪！”当王子和凯迪手拉着手在他面前弯下身子时，模特脸色苍白、惊愕不已，惊呼道。 '这是什么？这是疯子吗！或者这是什么？

‘Father,’ returned Prince with great submission, ‘I love this young lady, and we are engaged.’
“父亲，”普林斯非常顺从地回答道，“我爱这位年轻的女士，我们订婚了。”

‘Engaged!’ cried Mr. Turveydrop, reclining on the sofa and shutting out the sight with his hand. ‘An arrow launched at my brain by my own child!’
“订婚了！”特维德罗普先生靠在沙发上喊道，用手挡住了视线。 “我自己的孩子向我的大脑射出了一支箭！”

‘We have been engaged for some time, father,’ faltered Prince, ‘and Miss Summerson, hearing of it, advised that we should declare the fact to you and was so very kind as to attend on the present occasion. Miss Jellyby is a young lady who deeply respects you, father.’
“我们订婚已经有一段时间了，父亲，”普林斯结结巴巴地说，“萨默森小姐听说了这件事，建议我们向您宣布这个事实，并且非常友善地出席了这次活动。杰利比小姐是一位年轻的女士，她非常尊敬您，父亲。”

Mr. Turveydrop uttered a groan.
特维德罗普先生发出一声呻吟。

‘No, pray don’t! Pray don’t, father,’ urged his son. ‘Miss Jellyby is a young lady who deeply respects you, and our first desire is to consider your comfort.’
‘不，祈祷不要这样！请不要这样做，父亲。”他的儿子催促道。 “杰利比小姐是一位非常尊敬您的年轻女士，我们的首要愿望是考虑您的舒适度。”

Mr. Turveydrop sobbed.
特维德罗普先生抽泣着。

‘No, pray don’t, father!’ cried his son.
“不，请不要这样做，父亲！”他的儿子喊道。

‘Boy,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, ‘it is well that your sainted mother is spared this pang. Strike deep, and spare not. Strike home, sir, strike home!’
“孩子，”特维德罗普先生说，“你神圣的母亲幸免于难。”深入打击，不遗余力。直击目标，先生，直击目标！

‘Pray don’t say so, father,’ implored Prince, in tears. ‘It goes to my heart. I do assure you, father, that our first wish and intention is to consider your comfort. Caroline and I do not forget our duty—what is my duty is Caroline’s, as we have often said together—and with your approval and consent, father, we will devote ourselves to making your life agreeable.’
“请不要这么说，父亲，”普林斯流着泪恳求道。 ‘它触动了我的心。父亲，我向您保证，我们的首要愿望和意图是考虑您的舒适度。卡罗琳和我没有忘记我们的责任——正如我们经常在一起说的那样，我的责任就是卡罗琳的责任——在您的认可和同意下，父亲，我们将致力于让您的生活变得愉快。

‘Strike home,’ murmured Mr. Turveydrop. ‘Strike home!’ But he seemed to listen, I thought, too.
“打回家，”特维德罗普先生低声说道。 “攻击正中！”但我想，他似乎也在听。

‘My dear father,’ returned Prince, ‘we well know what little comforts you are accustomed to and have a right to, and it will always be our study and our pride to provide those before anything. If you will bless us with your approval and consent, father, we shall not think of being married until it is quite agreeable to you; and when we ARE married, we shall always make you—of course— our first consideration. You must ever be the head and master here, father; and we feel how truly unnatural it would be in us if we failed to know it or if we failed to exert ourselves in every possible way to please you.’
“我亲爱的父亲，”普林斯回答道，“我们很清楚您习惯并有权享受哪些小小的安慰，我们将永远致力于为您提供这些，我们也为此感到自豪。”父亲，如果您能以您的认可和同意来祝福我们，那么在您完全同意之前我们不会考虑结婚；当我们结婚时，当然，我们将永远把你作为我们的首要考虑。父亲，您必须永远是这里的头儿和主人；我们感到，如果我们不知道这一点，或者如果我们不竭尽全力取悦您，那么我们的内心就会多么不自然。

Mr. Turveydrop underwent a severe internal struggle and came upright on the sofa again with his cheeks puffing over his stiff cravat, a perfect model of parental deportment.
特维德罗普先生经历了一场剧烈的内心挣扎，再次从沙发上站了起来，脸颊鼓起，遮住了僵硬的领带，这是父母举止的完美典范。

‘My son!’ said Mr. Turveydrop. ‘My children! I cannot resist your prayer. Be happy!’
“我的儿子！”特维德罗普先生说。 '我的孩子们！我无法抗拒你的祈祷。要开心！'

His benignity as he raised his future daughter-in-law and stretched out his hand to his son (who kissed it with affectionate respect and gratitude) was the most confusing sight I ever saw.
当他抚养他未来的儿媳并向他的儿子伸出手（儿子带着深情的尊重和感激亲吻他的手）时，他的仁慈是我见过的最令人困惑的景象。

‘My children,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, paternally encircling Caddy with his left arm as she sat beside him, and putting his right hand gracefully on his hip. ‘My son and daughter, your happiness shall be my care. I will watch over you. You shall always live with me’—meaning, of course, I will always live with you—‘this house is henceforth as much yours as mine; consider it your home. May you long live to share it with me!’
“我的孩子们，”特维德罗普先生说道，当凯蒂坐在他身边时，他用左臂慈父般地搂住她，右手优雅地放在自己的臀部上。 ‘我的儿子和女儿，你们的幸福将由我来照顾。我会守护你。你将永远和我住在一起”——当然，我的意思是，我将永远和你住在一起——“从今以后，这所房子既是我的，也是你的；把它当作你的家。祝你长寿并与我分享！

The power of his deportment was such that they really were as much overcome with thankfulness as if, instead of quartering himself upon them for the rest of his life, he were making some munificent sacrifice in their favour.
他的举止如此有力，以至于他们真的充满了感激之情，仿佛他不是在余生中将自己奉献给他们，而是为他们做出了一些慷慨的牺牲。

‘For myself, my children,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, ‘I am falling into the sear and yellow leaf, and it is impossible to say how long the last feeble traces of gentlemanly deportment may linger in this weaving and spinning age. But, so long, I will do my duty to society and will show myself, as usual, about town. My wants are few and simple. My little apartment here, my few essentials for the toilet, my frugal morning meal, and my little dinner will suffice. I charge your dutiful affection with the supply of these requirements, and I charge myself with all the rest.’
“对我自己来说，我的孩子们，”特维德罗普先生说，“我正陷入灼热和黄叶之中，无法预测最后一丝绅士风度会在这个纺织和纺纱的时代持续多久。”但是，长期以来，我将尽我对社会的责任，并像往常一样展示自己关于城镇的情况。我的愿望很少而且很简单。我在这里的小公寓，我的一些厕所必需品，我节俭的早餐和我的小晚餐就足够了。我负责满足这些要求，并负责所有其余的事情。

They were overpowered afresh by his uncommon generosity.
他们再次被他不同寻常的慷慨所征服。

‘My son,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, ‘for those little points in which you are deficient—points of deportment, which are born with a man, which may be improved by cultivation, but can never be originated— you may still rely on me. I have been faithful to my post since the days of his Royal Highness the Prince Regent, and I will not desert it now. No, my son. If you have ever contemplated your father’s poor position with a feeling of pride, you may rest assured that he will do nothing to tarnish it. For yourself, Prince, whose character is different (we cannot be all alike, nor is it advisable that we should), work, be industrious, earn money, and extend the connexion as much as possible.’
“我的孩子，”特维德罗普先生说，“对于那些你所欠缺的小点——举止上的点，这些点是与生俱来的，可以通过培养来提高，但永远不可能是天生的——你仍然可以依靠我。我从摄政王殿下时代起就忠于职守，现在也不会放弃。不，我的儿子。如果你曾经怀着自豪的心情考虑过你父亲的可怜地位，你可以放心，他不会做任何事情来玷污它。对于你自己来说，普林斯，性格各异（我们不可能都一样，也不建议我们应该一样），工作，勤奋，赚钱，并尽可能扩大联系。

‘That you may depend I will do, dear father, with all my heart,’ replied Prince.
“亲爱的父亲，我会全心全意地为您服务，”王子回答道。

‘I have no doubt of it,’ said Mr. Turveydrop. ‘Your qualities are not shining, my dear child, but they are steady and useful. And to both of you, my children, I would merely observe, in the spirit of a sainted wooman on whose path I had the happiness of casting, I believe, SOME ray of light, take care of the establishment, take care of my simple wants, and bless you both!’
“我对此毫不怀疑，”特维德罗普先生说。 ‘我亲爱的孩子，你的品质并不耀眼，但却是稳定而有用的。对于你们俩，我的孩子们，我只是本着一位圣女的精神，我有幸在他们的道路上投射出一些光芒，我相信，照顾好机构，照顾好我简单的生活。想要，并祝福你们俩！

Old Mr. Turveydrop then became so very gallant, in honour of the occasion, that I told Caddy we must really go to Thavies Inn at once if we were to go at all that day. So we took our departure after a very loving farewell between Caddy and her betrothed, and during our walk she was so happy and so full of old Mr. Turveydrop’s praises that I would not have said a word in his disparagement for any consideration.
为了纪念这个场合，老特维德罗普先生变得非常殷勤，我告诉凯蒂，如果我们那天要走的话，我们必须立即去萨维斯旅馆。因此，凯迪和她的未婚夫深情地告别后，我们就出发了。在我们散步的过程中，她非常高兴，充满了老特维德罗普先生的赞美，以至于我不会出于任何考虑而对他说任何贬低的话。

The house in Thavies Inn had bills in the windows annoucing that it was to let, and it looked dirtier and gloomier and ghastlier than ever. The name of poor Mr. Jellyby had appeared in the list of bankrupts but a day or two before, and he was shut up in the dining-room with two gentlemen and a heap of blue bags, accountbooks, and papers, making the most desperate endeavours to understand his affairs. They appeared to me to be quite beyond his comprehension, for when Caddy took me into the dining-room by mistake and we came upon Mr. Jellyby in his spectacles, forlornly fenced into a corner by the great dining-table and the two gentlemen, he seemed to have given up the whole thing and to be speechless and insensible.
塔维斯旅馆的房子窗户上挂着账单，宣布要出租，而且它看起来比以前更脏、更阴暗、更可怕。可怜的杰利比先生的名字在一两天前就出现在破产者名单上，他和两位先生以及一堆蓝色的袋子、账簿和文件被关在餐厅里，让最绝望的人努力了解他的事务。在我看来，他们完全超出了他的理解范围，因为当卡迪错误地把我带进餐厅时，我们遇到了戴眼镜的杰利比先生，他被大餐桌和两位绅士凄凉地围在角落里，他似乎已经放弃了一切，无言以对，毫无知觉。

Going upstairs to Mrs. Jellyby’s room (the children were all screaming in the kitchen, and there was no servant to be seen), we found that lady in the midst of a voluminous correspondence, opening, reading, and sorting letters, with a great accumulation of torn covers on the floor. She was so preoccupied that at first she did not know me, though she sat looking at me with that curious, bright-eyed, far-off look of hers.
上楼来到杰利比太太的房间（厨房里孩子们都在尖叫，也看不到仆人），我们发现那位女士正在处理大量的信件，打开、阅读、分类信件，神情非常严肃。地板上堆积着撕破的盖子。她全神贯注，一开始并不认识我，尽管她坐在那儿，用那种好奇、明亮、遥远的神情看着我。

‘Ah! Miss Summerson!’ she said at last. ‘I was thinking of something so different! I hope you are well. I am happy to see you. Mr. Jarndyce and Miss Clare quite well?’
'啊！萨默森小姐！”她最后说道。 “我在想一些非常不同的事情！我希望你一切都好。我很高兴见到你。贾迪斯先生和克莱尔小姐关系很好吗？

I hoped in return that Mr. Jellyby was quite well.
作为回报，我希望杰利比先生一切都好。

‘Why, not quite, my dear,’ said Mrs. Jellyby in the calmest manner. ‘He has been unfortunate in his affairs and is a little out of spirits. Happily for me, I am so much engaged that I have no time to think about it. We have, at the present moment, one hundred and seventy families, Miss Summerson, averaging five persons in each, either gone or going to the left bank of the Niger.’
“哦，不完全是，亲爱的，”杰利比太太以最平静的方式说道。 ‘他的事情有些不幸，精神有些萎靡。令我高兴的是，我太忙了，没有时间去想它。萨默森小姐，目前我们有一百七十个家庭，平均每个家庭有五人，要么离开了，要么前往尼日尔左岸。

I thought of the one family so near us who were neither gone nor going to the left bank of the Niger, and wondered how she could be so placid.
我想起离我们那么近的一家人，他们既没有离开，也没有去尼日尔河左岸，我想知道她怎么能如此平静。

‘You have brought Caddy back, I see,’ observed Mrs. Jellyby with a glance at her daughter. ‘It has become quite a novelty to see her here. She has almost deserted her old employment and in fact obliges me to employ a boy.’
“我明白了，你把凯迪带回来了，”杰利比太太看了一眼她的女儿说道。 “在这里见到她已经变得很新奇了。她几乎放弃了原来的工作，实际上迫使我雇用了一个男孩。

‘I am sure, Ma—‘ began Caddy.
“我确信，妈妈——”凯迪开始说道。

‘Now you know, Caddy,’ her mother mildly interposed, ‘that I DO employ a boy, who is now at his dinner. What is the use of your contradicting?’
“现在你知道了，凯迪，”她母亲温和地插话道，“我确实雇佣了一个男孩，他现在正在吃晚饭。”你反驳有什么用？

‘I was not going to contradict, Ma,’ returned Caddy. ‘I was only going to say that surely you wouldn’t have me be a mere drudge all my life.’
“我不会反驳，妈妈，”凯迪回答道。 “我只是想说，你肯定不会让我一辈子当苦工。”

‘I believe, my dear,’ said Mrs. Jellyby, still opening her letters, casting her bright eyes smilingly over them, and sorting them as she spoke, ‘that you have a business example before you in your mother. Besides. A mere drudge? If you had any sympathy with the destinies of the human race, it would raise you high above any such idea. But you have none. I have often told you, Caddy, you have no such sympathy.’
“我相信，亲爱的，”杰利比太太一边说，一边继续打开信，用明亮的眼睛微笑着看着信，边说边把它们分类，“在你面前有一个商业榜样，那就是你的母亲。”除了。一个单纯的苦工？如果你对人类的命运有任何同情，你就会超越任何此类想法。但你没有。我经常告诉你，凯迪，你没有这样的同情心。

‘Not if it’s Africa, Ma, I have not.’
“如果是非洲就不会，妈，我没有。”

‘Of course you have not. Now, if I were not happily so much engaged, Miss Summerson,’ said Mrs. Jellyby, sweetly casting her eyes for a moment on me and considering where to put the particular letter she had just opened, ‘this would distress and disappoint me. But I have so much to think of, in connexion with Borrioboola-Gha and it is so necessary I should concentrate myself that there is my remedy, you see.’
“你当然没有。”现在，萨默森小姐，如果我不是很高兴地如此忙碌，”杰利比夫人说道，她甜蜜地在我身上看了一会儿，考虑着把她刚刚打开的那封信放在哪里，“这会让我感到痛苦和失望。但我有很多事情要考虑，与博里奥博拉-加有关，我非常有必要集中精力，这就是我的补救办法，你看。

As Caddy gave me a glance of entreaty, and as Mrs. Jellyby was looking far away into Africa straight through my bonnet and head, I thought it a good opportunity to come to the subject of my visit and to attract Mrs. Jellyby’s attention.
当卡迪恳求地看了我一眼，当杰利比夫人透过我的帽子和头直视远方的非洲时，我认为这是一个很好的机会来谈谈我访问的主题并吸引杰利比夫人的注意。

‘Perhaps,’ I began, ‘you will wonder what has brought me here to interrupt you.’
“也许，”我开始说道，“你会想知道是什么让我来这里打断你的。”

‘I am always delighted to see Miss Summerson,’ said Mrs. Jellyby, pursuing her employment with a placid smile. ‘Though I wish,’ and she shook her head, ‘she was more interested in the Borrioboolan project.’
“我总是很高兴见到萨默森小姐，”杰利比夫人说，带着平静的微笑寻求工作。 “虽然我希望如此，”她摇了摇头，“她对博里奥布尔兰项目更感兴趣。”

‘I have come with Caddy,’ said I, ‘because Caddy justly thinks she ought not to have a secret from her mother and fancies I shall encourage and aid her (though I am sure I don’t know how) in imparting one.’
“我和凯蒂一起来，”我说，“因为凯蒂认为她不应该对她母亲保守秘密，并且幻想我应该鼓励和帮助她（尽管我确信我不知道如何）透露一个秘密。 '

‘Caddy,’ said Mrs. Jellyby, pausing for a moment in her occupation and then serenely pursuing it after shaking her head, ‘you are going to tell me some nonsense.’
“球童，”杰利比太太在她的工作中停顿了一会儿，摇摇头后平静地继续说，“你要告诉我一些废话。”

Caddy untied the strings of her bonnet, took her bonnet off, and letting it dangle on the floor by the strings, and crying heartily, said, ‘Ma, I am engaged.’
球童解开帽子的带子，把帽子脱下来，用绳子把帽子挂在地板上，大声哭着说：“妈妈，我订婚了。”

‘Oh, you ridiculous child!’ observed Mrs. Jellyby with an abstracted air as she looked over the dispatch last opened; ‘what a goose you are!’
“哦，你这个可笑的孩子！”杰利比太太看着最后打开的那封信，心不在焉地说道。 “你真是一只鹅啊！”

‘I am engaged, Ma,’ sobbed Caddy, ‘to young Mr. Turveydrop, at the academy; and old Mr. Turveydrop (who is a very gentlemanly man indeed) has given his consent, and I beg and pray you’ll give us yours, Ma, because I never could be happy without it. I never, never could!’ sobbed Caddy, quite forgetful of her general complainings and of everything but her natural affection.
“妈妈，我在学院和年轻的特维德罗普先生订婚了，”卡迪抽泣道。老特维德罗普先生（他确实是一位非常有绅士风度的人）已经同意了，我恳求并祈祷您也能同意，妈妈，因为没有它我永远不会幸福。我永远、永远不能！”凯迪抽泣着，完全忘记了她一般的抱怨和一切，除了她自然的感情。

‘You see again, Miss Summerson,’ observed Mrs. Jellyby serenely, ‘what a happiness it is to be so much occupied as I am and to have this necessity for self-concentration that I have. Here is Caddy engaged to a dancing-master’s son—mixed up with people who have no more sympathy with the destinies of the human race than she has herself! This, too, when Mr. Quale, one of the first philanthropists of our time, has mentioned to me that he was really disposed to be interested in her!’
“你再看一遍，萨默森小姐，”杰利比夫人平静地说道，“像我这样忙得不可开交，而且有这种自我集中的必要性，这是多么幸福啊。”凯蒂与一位舞蹈大师的儿子订婚了——她和那些对人类命运并不比她自己更有同情心的人混在一起！当我们这个时代最早的慈善家之一奎尔先生向我提到他真的很想对她感兴趣时，也是如此！

‘Ma, I always hated and detested Mr. Quale!’ sobbed Caddy.
“妈妈，我一直讨厌奎尔先生！”凯迪抽泣着说道。

‘Caddy, Caddy!’ returned Mrs. Jellyby, opening another letter with the greatest complacency. ‘I have no doubt you did. How could you do otherwise, being totally destitute of the sympathies with which he overflows! Now, if my public duties were not a favourite child to me, if I were not occupied with large measures on a vast scale, these petty details might grieve me very much, Miss Summerson. But can I permit the film of a silly proceeding on the part of Caddy (from whom I expect nothing else) to interpose between me and the great African continent? No. No,’ repeated Mrs. Jellyby in a calm clear voice, and with an agreeable smile, as she opened more letters and sorted them. ‘No, indeed.’
“球童，球童！”杰利比太太回答道，带着极大的满足感打开了另一封信。 “我毫不怀疑你做到了。你怎么能不这样做呢，因为你完全没有他所充满的同情心！现在，如果我不喜欢我的公共职责，如果我没有忙于大规模的重大措施，这些琐碎的细节可能会让我非常悲伤，萨默森小姐。但我可以允许一部关于凯迪（我对他没有别的期望）的愚蠢行为的电影插在我和伟大的非洲大陆之间吗？不，不，”杰利比太太一边打开更多的信，一边对它们进行分类，用平静而清晰的声音重复道，脸上带着愉快的微笑。 “不，确实如此。”

I was so unprepared for the perfect coolness of this reception, though I might have expected it, that I did not know what to say. Caddy seemed equally at a loss. Mrs. Jellyby continued to open and sort letters and to repeat occasionally in quite a charming tone of voice and with a smile of perfect composure, ‘No, indeed.’
尽管我可能已经预料到了这样的接待，但我对这种完全冷静的接待感到非常措手不及，以至于我不知道该说什么。凯迪看上去同样不知所措。杰利比夫人继续打开和分类信件，偶尔以一种迷人的语气和完全镇静的微笑重复说：“不，确实如此。”

‘I hope, Ma,’ sobbed poor Caddy at last, ‘you are not angry?’
“我希望，妈妈，”可怜的凯迪最后抽泣着，“你不生气吗？”

‘Oh, Caddy, you really are an absurd girl,’ returned Mrs. Jellyby, ‘to ask such questions after what I have said of the preoccupation of my mind.’
“哦，凯迪，你真是个荒唐的女孩，”杰利比太太回答道，“在我说了我全神贯注的事情之后，你还问这样的问题。”

‘And I hope, Ma, you give us your consent and wish us well?’ said Caddy.
“妈妈，我希望您同意我们并祝我们一切顺利？”凯迪说。

‘You are a nonsensical child to have done anything of this kind,’ said Mrs. Jellyby; ‘and a degenerate child, when you might have devoted yourself to the great public measure. But the step is taken, and I have engaged a boy, and there is no more to be said. Now, pray, Caddy,’ said Mrs. Jellyby, for Caddy was kissing her, ‘don’t delay me in my work, but let me clear off this heavy batch of papers before the afternoon post comes in!’
“你真是个愚蠢的孩子，居然做出了这种事。”杰利比太太说。 ‘当你本可以致力于伟大的公共措施时，还是一个堕落的孩子。但步已迈出，又订了一个童子，也就没什么可说的了。现在，祈祷吧，凯蒂，”杰利比太太一边亲吻她，一边说道，“别耽误我的工作，但让我在下午的邮件送达之前把这堆厚重的文件处理掉！”

I thought I could not do better than take my leave; I was detained for a moment by Caddy’s saying, ‘You won’t object to my bringing him to see you, Ma?’
我想我最好的办法就是离开。凯迪的一句话让我愣住了：“妈妈，你不会反对我带他来见你吧？”

‘Oh, dear me, Caddy,’ cried Mrs. Jellyby, who had relapsed into that distant contemplation, ‘have you begun again? Bring whom?’
“哦，天哪，凯蒂，”杰利比太太喊道，她又陷入了那种遥远的沉思，“你又开始了吗？”带谁来？

‘Him, Ma.’
“他，妈妈。”

‘Caddy, Caddy!’ said Mrs. Jellyby, quite weary of such little matters. ‘Then you must bring him some evening which is not a Parent Society night, or a Branch night, or a Ramification night. You must accommodate the visit to the demands upon my time. My dear Miss Summerson, it was very kind of you to come here to help out this silly chit. Good-bye! When I tell you that I have fiftyeight new letters from manufacturing families anxious to understand the details of the native and coffee-cultivation question this morning, I need not apologize for having very little leisure.’
“球童，球童！”杰利比太太对这些小事感到厌烦了。 “那么你必须在某个晚上带他来，这个晚上不是家长协会之夜，也不是分支机构之夜，也不是分支之夜。您必须满足这次访问对我时间的要求。我亲爱的萨默森小姐，您能来这里帮助解决这个愚蠢的问题真是太好了。再见！当我告诉你，今天早上我收到了 58 封来自制造业家庭的新来信，他们急切地想了解本土和咖啡种植问题的细节时，我不需要为没有多少空闲而道歉。

I was not surprised by Caddy’s being in low spirits when we went downstairs, or by her sobbing afresh on my neck, or by her saying she would far rather have been scolded than treated with such indifference, or by her confiding to me that she was so poor in clothes that how she was ever to be married creditably she didn’t know. I gradually cheered her up by dwelling on the many things she would do for her unfortunate father and for Peepy when she had a home of her own; and finally we went downstairs into the damp dark kitchen, where Peepy and his little brothers and sisters were grovelling on the stone floor and where we had such a game of play with them that to prevent myself from being quite torn to pieces I was obliged to fall back on my fairy-tales. From time to time I heard loud voices in the parlour overhead, and occasionally a violent tumbling about of the furniture. The last effect I am afraid was caused by poor Mr. Jellyby’s breaking away from the dining-table and making rushes at the window with the intention of throwing himself into the area whenever he made any new attempt to understand his affairs.
当我们下楼时，凯迪情绪低落，或者她在我脖子上重新抽泣，或者她说她宁愿被责骂也不愿受到如此冷漠的对待，或者她向我吐露她她的衣服如此简陋，以至于她不知道如何才能体面地结婚。我逐渐让她高兴起来，想着当她有了自己的家后，她会为她不幸的父亲和皮皮做很多事情；最后我们下楼进入潮湿黑暗的厨房，皮皮和他的弟弟妹妹们正趴在石头地板上，我们和他们玩游戏，为了防止自己被撕成碎片，我不得不回到我的童话故事中。我不时听到头顶客厅里传来大声的说话声，偶尔还听到家具猛烈翻滚的声音。我担心最后一个影响是由于可怜的杰利比先生每当他试图了解自己的事务时，就会从餐桌上挣脱出来，冲向窗户，意图冲入该地区。

As I rode quietly home at night after the day’s bustle, I thought a good deal of Caddy’s engagement and felt confirmed in my hopes (in spite of the elder Mr. Turveydrop) that she would be the happier and better for it. And if there seemed to be but a slender chance of her and her husband ever finding out what the model of deportment really was, why that was all for the best too, and who would wish them to be wiser? I did not wish them to be any wiser and indeed was half ashamed of not entirely believing in him myself. And I looked up at the stars, and thought about travellers in distant countries and the stars THEY saw, and hoped I might always be so blest and happy as to be useful to some one in my small way.
经过一天的忙碌，晚上我安静地骑车回家时，我想了很多关于凯蒂订婚的事，并确信我的希望（尽管年长的特维德罗普先生）希望她会因此而更快乐、更好。如果她和她的丈夫似乎只有微乎其微的机会发现真正的行为模式是什么，那为什么这也是最好的呢？谁会希望他们变得更聪明呢？我不希望他们变得更聪明，事实上，我也为自己不完全相信他而感到羞愧。我抬头仰望星空，想着远方的旅行者和他们看到的星星，希望我能永远幸福快乐，以自己的微薄之力为某人做点贡献。

They were so glad to see me when I got home, as they always were, that I could have sat down and cried for joy if that had not been a method of making myself disagreeable. Everybody in the house, from the lowest to the highest, showed me such a bright face of welcome, and spoke so cheerily, and was so happy to do anything for me, that I suppose there never was such a fortunate little creature in the world.
当我回到家时，他们很高兴见到我，就像他们一贯的那样，如果这不是让自己变得不愉快的话，我可以坐下来高兴地哭泣。房子里的每个人，从最低层到最高层，都向我露出了如此灿烂的欢迎表情，说话如此愉快，很乐意为我做任何事，我想世界上从来没有过如此幸运的小动物。 。

We got into such a chatty state that night, through Ada and my guardian drawing me out to tell them all about Caddy, that I went on prose, prose, prosing for a length of time. At last I got up to my own room, quite red to think how I had been holding forth, and then I heard a soft tap at my door. So I said, ‘Come in!’ and there came in a pretty little girl, neatly dressed in mourning, who dropped a curtsy.
那天晚上，我们聊得很投机，艾达和我的监护人把我拉出来告诉他们关于凯迪的一切，以至于我写了很长一段时间的散文、散文、散文。最后，我回到了自己的房间，一想到自己一直在喋喋不休，脸就红了，然后我听到有人轻轻地敲门。于是我说：“请进！”然后进来了一个漂亮的小女孩，她穿着整齐的丧服，行了屈膝礼。

‘If you please, miss,’ said the little girl in a soft voice, ‘I am Charley.’
“请问，小姐，”小女孩轻声说道，“我是查理。”

‘Why, so you are,’ said I, stooping down in astonishment and giving her a kiss. ‘How glad am I to see you, Charley!’
“哎呀，原来你是这样啊。”我惊讶地弯下腰，吻了她一下。 “我很高兴见到你，查理！”

‘If you please, miss,’ pursued Charley in the same soft voice, ‘I’m your maid.’
“如果您愿意，小姐，”查利用同样柔和的声音追问，“我是您的女仆。”

‘Charley?’
“查理？”

‘If you please, miss, I’m a present to you, with Mr. Jarndyce’s love.’
“小姐，如果您愿意的话，我是送给您的一份礼物，带着贾迪斯先生的爱。”

I sat down with my hand on Charley’s neck and looked at Charley.
我坐下来，把手放在查理的脖子上，看着查理。

‘And oh, miss,’ says Charley, clapping her hands, with the tears starting down her dimpled cheeks, ‘Tom’s at school, if you please, and learning so good! And little Emma, she’s with Mrs. Blinder, miss, a-being took such care of! And Tom, he would have been at school—and Emma, she would have been left with Mrs. Blinder—and me, I should have been here—all a deal sooner, miss; only Mr. Jarndyce thought that Tom and Emma and me had better get a little used to parting first, we was so small. Don’t cry, if you please, miss!’
“哦，小姐，”查莉拍着手说道，泪水从她那双有酒窝的脸颊上流下来，“汤姆在学校，如果你愿意的话，他学得真好！还有小艾玛，她和布林德太太在一起，小姐，一个人受到了如此照顾！汤姆，他本来应该去学校的——艾玛，她本来应该和布林德太太在一起的——而我，我本应该到这里的——一切都早点了，小姐；只有贾迪斯先生认为汤姆、艾玛和我最好先习惯分开，我们太小了。小姐，请别哭！”

‘I can’t help it, Charley.’
“我没办法，查理。”

‘No, miss, nor I can’t help it,’ says Charley. ‘And if you please, miss, Mr. Jarndyce’s love, and he thinks you’ll like to teach me now and then. And if you please, Tom and Emma and me is to see each other once a month. And I’m so happy and so thankful, miss,’ cried Charley with a heaving heart, ‘and I’ll try to be such a good maid!’
“不，小姐，我也无能为力，”查理说。 “如果您愿意的话，小姐，贾迪斯先生的爱人，他认为您会时不时地教我。如果你愿意的话，汤姆、艾玛和我每月见一次面。我很高兴，也很感激，小姐，”查理心潮澎湃地喊道，“我会努力成为一名好女仆的！”

‘Oh, Charley dear, never forget who did all this!’
“噢，亲爱的查理，永远不要忘记这一切是谁干的！”

‘No, miss, I never will. Nor Tom won’t. Nor yet Emma. It was all you, miss.’
“不，小姐，我永远不会。汤姆也不会。艾玛也没有。都是你，小姐。”

‘I have known nothing of it. It was Mr. Jarndyce, Charley.’
“我对此一无所知。这是贾迪斯先生，查理。

‘Yes, miss, but it was all done for the love of you and that you might be my mistress. If you please, miss, I am a little present with his love, and it was all done for the love of you. Me and Tom was to be sure to remember it.’
“是的，小姐，但这一切都是为了爱你，为了让你成为我的情妇。如果您愿意的话，小姐，我送了一份小礼物给他的爱，这一切都是为了对您的爱。我和汤姆一定要记住这一点。

Charley dried her eyes and entered on her functions, going in her matronly little way about and about the room and folding up everything she could lay her hands upon. Presently Charley came creeping back to my side and said, ‘Oh, don’t cry, if you please, miss.’
查理擦干眼睛，开始她的工作，以她主妇的小方式在房间里走来走去，折叠她能拿到的所有东西。不久查理又爬到我身边说：“哦，请不要哭，小姐。”

And I said again, ‘I can’t help it, Charley.’
我又说了一遍：“我无能为力，查理。”

And Charley said again, ‘No, miss, nor I can’t help it.’ And so, after all, I did cry for joy indeed, and so did she.
查理又说：“不，小姐，我也无能为力。”所以，毕竟，我确实高兴得哭了，她也是。

CHAPTER XXIV
第二十四章


An Appeal Case
上诉案件

As soon as Richard and I had held the conversation of which I have given an account, Richard communicated the state of his mind to Mr. Jarndyce. I doubt if my guardian were altogether taken by surprise when he received the representation, though it caused him much uneasiness and disappointment. He and Richard were often closeted together, late at night and early in the morning, and passed whole days in London, and had innumerable appointments with Mr. Kenge, and laboured through a quantity of disagreeable business. While they were thus employed, my guardian, though he underwent considerable inconvenience from the state of the wind and rubbed his head so constantly that not a single hair upon it ever rested in its right place, was as genial with Ada and me as at any other time, but maintained a steady reserve on these matters. And as our utmost endeavours could only elicit from Richard himself sweeping assurances that everything was going on capitally and that it really was all right at last, our anxiety was not much relieved by him.
理查德和我进行了我已记述的谈话后，理查德就向贾迪斯先生传达了他的想法。我怀疑我的监护人在收到陈述时是否完全感到惊讶，尽管这让他感到非常不安和失望。他和理查德经常在深夜和清晨一起密室，在伦敦度过一整天，与肯吉先生进行了无数次约会，并处理了大量令人不快的事务。当他们这样工作时，我的监护人虽然因风势而感到相当不便，而且不断地揉着他的头，以至于头上一根头发都没有放在正确的位置，但他对艾达和我还是一如既往地和蔼可亲。其他时间，但对这些问题保持稳定的保留。由于我们竭尽全力只能从理查德本人那里得到全面的保证，一切都在顺利进行，最终真的没事了，所以他并没有减轻我们的焦虑。

We learnt, however, as the time went on, that a new application was made to the Lord Chancellor on Richard’s behalf as an infant and a ward, and I don’t know what, and that there was a quantity of talking, and that the Lord Chancellor described him in open court as a vexatious and capricious infant, and that the matter was adjourned and readjourned, and referred, and reported on, and petitioned about until Richard began to doubt (as he told us) whether, if he entered the army at all, it would not be as a veteran of seventy or eighty years of age. At last an appointment was made for him to see the Lord Chancellor again in his private room, and there the Lord Chancellor very seriously reproved him for trifling with time and not knowing his mind—‘a pretty good joke, I think,’ said Richard, ‘from that quarter!’—and at last it was settled that his application should be granted. His name was entered at the Horse Guards as an applicant for an ensign’s commission; the purchase-money was deposited at an agent’s; and Richard, in his usual characteristic way, plunged into a violent course of military study and got up at five o’clock every morning to practise the broadsword exercise.
然而，随着时间的推移，我们了解到，有人代表理查德作为婴儿和受监护人向大法官提出了新的申请，我不知道是什么，而且有很多谈话，而且大法官在公开法庭上将他形容为一个无理取闹、反复无常的婴儿，案件一再休会、提交、报告、请愿，直到理查德开始怀疑（正如他告诉我们的那样）是否，如果他进入根本就不是军队，也不会是七十、八十岁的老兵。最后，他被安排在大法官的私人房间里再次见到大法官，大法官非常严肃地责备他浪费时间，不了解自己的想法——“我认为这是一个很好的笑话，”理查德说。 ，“从那个季度开始！”——最后决定批准他的申请。他的名字被登记在皇家骑兵卫队，作为少尉委任的申请人。货款存入代理人处；理查德则以他一贯的方式，投入到激烈的军事学习中，每天早上五点起床练习大刀练习。

Thus, vacation succeeded term, and term succeeded vacation. We sometimes heard of Jarndyce and Jarndyce as being in the paper or out of the paper, or as being to be mentioned, or as being to be spoken to; and it came on, and it went off. Richard, who was now in a professor’s house in London, was able to be with us less frequently than before; my guardian still maintained the same reserve; and so time passed until the commission was obtained and Richard received directions with it to join a regiment in Ireland.
因此，假期继学期，学期又继假期。我们有时听说贾迪斯和贾迪斯出现在报纸上或报纸外，或者被提及，或者被谈论；它出现了，又消失了。理查德现在住在伦敦一位教授的家里，与我们在一起的次数比以前少了。我的监护人仍然保持同样的保留；就这样过了一段时间，理查德获得了委任状，并收到了前往爱尔兰加入一个军团的指示。

He arrived post-haste with the intelligence one evening, and had a long conference with my guardian. Upwards of an hour elapsed before my guardian put his head into the room where Ada and I were sitting and said, ‘Come in, my dears!’ We went in and found Richard, whom we had last seen in high spirits, leaning on the chimney-piece looking mortified and angry.
一天晚上，他带着情报匆匆赶到，并与我的监护人进行了一次长时间的会议。一个多小时过去了，我的监护人把头伸进艾达和我坐的房间说：“进来吧，亲爱的！”我们走进去，发现理查德靠在桌子上，我们最后一次看到他兴高采烈。烟囱看起来既羞愧又愤怒。

‘Rick and I, Ada,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘are not quite of one mind. Come, come, Rick, put a brighter face upon it!’
“里克和我，艾达，”贾迪斯先生说，“意见不一。来吧，来吧，瑞克，把脸变得更明亮！”

‘You are very hard with me, sir,’ said Richard. ‘The harder because you have been so considerate to me in all other respects and have done me kindnesses that I can never acknowledge. I never could have been set right without you, sir.’
“你对我太严厉了，先生，”理查德说。 ‘更难的是因为你在其他方面都对我如此体贴，并且对我做出了我永远无法承认的善意。先生，如果没有你，我永远不可能康复。

‘Well, well!’ said Mr. Jarndyce. ‘I want to set you more right yet. I want to set you more right with yourself.’
“好吧，好吧！”贾迪斯先生说。 “我想让你更加正确。”我想让你更正确地对待自己。

‘I hope you will excuse my saying, sir,’ returned Richard in a fiery way, but yet respectfully, ‘that I think I am the best judge about myself.’
“我希望您能原谅我的话，先生，”理查德以一种火热但又充满敬意的方式回答道，“我认为我是对自己最好的判断。”

‘I hope you will excuse my saying, my dear Rick,’ observed Mr. Jarndyce with the sweetest cheerfulness and good humour, ‘that’s it’s quite natural in you to think so, but I don’t think so. I must do my duty, Rick, or you could never care for me in cool blood; and I hope you will always care for me, cool and hot.’
“亲爱的里克，我希望你能原谅我的话，”贾迪斯先生带着最甜蜜的快乐和幽默说道，“你这么想是很自然的，但我不这么认为。”我必须履行我的职责，瑞克，否则你永远无法冷静地关心我；我希望你永远关心我，无论冷酷还是热情。

Ada had turned so pale that he made her sit down in his readingchair and sat beside her.
艾达脸色苍白，他让她坐在阅读椅上，坐在她旁边。

‘It’s nothing, my dear,’ he said, ‘it’s nothing. Rick and I have only had a friendly difference, which we must state to you, for you are the theme. Now you are afraid of what’s coming.’
“没什么，亲爱的，”他说，“没什么。”里克和我只是有一些友好的分歧，我们必须向你说明这一点，因为你就是主题。现在你害怕即将发生的事情。

‘I am not indeed, cousin John,’ replied Ada with a smile, ‘if it is to come from you.’
“我确实不是，约翰表弟，”艾达微笑着回答，“如果这是你说的。”

‘Thank you, my dear. Do you give me a minute’s calm attention, without looking at Rick. And, little woman, do you likewise. My dear girl,’ putting his hand on hers as it lay on the side of the easy-chair, ‘you recollect the talk we had, we four when the little woman told me of a little love affair?’
'谢了亲爱的。你能冷静地关注我一分钟吗，不要看里克。小女人，你也这样做吧。我亲爱的女孩，”他把手放在安乐椅边上的她的手上，“你还记得我们四个人的谈话吗？那个小女人告诉我一段小小的恋情？”

‘It is not likely that either Richard or I can ever forget your kindness that day, cousin John.’
“无论是理查德还是我都不太可能忘记你那天的好意，约翰表弟。”

‘I can never forget it,’ said Richard.
“我永远不会忘记它，”理查德说。

‘And I can never forget it,’ said Ada.
“我永远不会忘记它，”艾达说。

‘So much the easier what I have to say, and so much the easier for us to agree,’ returned my guardian, his face irradiated by the gentleness and honour of his heart. ‘Ada, my bird, you should know that Rick has now chosen his profession for the last time. All that he has of certainty will be expended when he is fully equipped. He has exhausted his resources and is bound henceforward to the tree he has planted.’
“我要说的话就更容易了，我们也更容易达成一致。”我的监护人回答道，他的脸因他内心的温柔和荣誉而焕发光芒。 ‘艾达，我的小鸟，你应该知道，瑞克现在已经最后一次选择了他的职业。当他装备齐全时，他所拥有的一切确定性都会被消耗掉。他已经用尽了自己的资源，从此以后就只能和他种下的树绑在一起了。

‘Quite true that I have exhausted my present resources, and I am quite content to know it. But what I have of certainty, sir,’ said Richard, ‘is not all I have.’
“确实，我已经用尽了我目前的资源，而且我很高兴知道这一点。但是，先生，”理查德说，“我所拥有的还不是我所拥有的全部。”

‘Rick, Rick!’ cried my guardian with a sudden terror in his manner, and in an altered voice, and putting up his hands as if he would have stopped his ears. ‘For the love of God, don’t found a hope or expectation on the family curse! Whatever you do on this side the grave, never give one lingering glance towards the horrible phantom that has haunted us so many years. Better to borrow, better to beg, better to die!’
“瑞克，瑞克！”我的监护人喊道，他的态度突然变得恐惧，声音也变了，举起双手，好像要堵住耳朵一样。 ‘看在上帝的份上，不要对家族的诅咒抱有希望或期待！无论你在坟墓的这一边做什么，永远不要对这个困扰我们多年的可怕幽灵多看一眼。最好借，最好乞讨，最好死！”

We were all startled by the fervour of this warning. Richard bit his lip and held his breath, and glanced at me as if he felt, and knew that I felt too, how much he needed it.
我们都被这个警告的激烈程度吓了一跳。理查德咬住嘴唇，屏住呼吸，看了我一眼，好像他感觉到了，并且知道我也感觉到了，他是多么需要它。

‘Ada, my dear,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, recovering his cheerfulness, ‘these are strong words of advice, but I live in Bleak House and have seen a sight here. Enough of that. All Richard had to start him in the race of life is ventured. I recommend to him and you, for his sake and your own, that he should depart from us with the understanding that there is no sort of contract between you. I must go further. 1 will be plain with you both. You were to confide freely in me, and I will confide freely in you. I ask you wholly to relinquish, for the present, any tie but your relationship.’
“艾达，亲爱的，”贾迪斯先生恢复了愉快的心情，说道，“这些都是强烈的建议，但我住在荒凉山庄，也见过这里的景象。够了。理查德在人生的赛跑中必须要冒险。我建议他和你，为了他和你自己的利益，他应该离开我们，并理解你们之间不存在任何合同。我必须走得更远。 1 会向你们俩坦白。你应该自由地向我倾诉，我也会自由地向你倾诉。我要求你暂时放弃除你们的关系之外的任何联系。

‘Better to say at once, sir,’ returned Richard, ‘that you renounce all confidence in me and that you advise Ada to do the same.’
“最好立即说，先生，”理查德回答道，“您放弃对我的所有信任，并建议艾达也这样做。”

‘Better to say nothing of the sort, Rick, because I don’t mean it.’
“最好什么也不说，里克，因为我不是这个意思。”

‘You think I have begun ill, sir,’ retorted Richard. ‘I HAVE, I know.’
“你认为我已经开始生病了，先生，”理查德反驳道。 “我有，我知道。”

‘How I hoped you would begin, and how go on, I told you when we spoke of these things last,’ said Mr. Jarndyce in a cordial and encouraging manner. ‘You have not made that beginning yet, but there is a time for all things, and yours is not gone by; rather, it is just now fully come. Make a clear beginning altogether. You two (very young, my dears) are cousins. As yet, you are nothing more. What more may come must come of being worked out, Rick, and no sooner.’
“我多么希望你开始，以及如何继续，当我们上次谈到这些事情时，我已经告诉过你了，”贾迪斯先生以亲切和鼓励的方式说道。 ‘你还没有开始，但是万事都有一个时间，而你的时间还没有过去；相反，它现在才完全到来。完全有一个清晰的开始。你们两个（非常年轻，亲爱的）是表兄弟。到目前为止，你什么都不是。瑞克，接下来可能发生的事情必须得到解决，而且不会很快。

‘You are very hard with me, sir,’ said Richard. ‘Harder than I could have supposed you would be.’
“你对我太严厉了，先生，”理查德说。 “比我想象的还要难。”

‘My dear boy,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘I am harder with myself when I do anything that gives you pain. You have your remedy in your own hands. Ada, it is better for him that he should be free and that there should be no youthful engagement between you. Rick, it is better for her, much better; you owe it to her. Come! Each of you will do what is best for the other, if not what is best for yourselves.’
“我亲爱的孩子，”贾迪斯先生说，“当我做任何让你痛苦的事情时，我会对自己更加严厉。”你有你自己的补救办法。艾达，他应该自由，对他来说更好，你们之间不应该有年轻时的订婚。瑞克，这对她来说更好，好多了；你欠她的。来！你们每个人都会做对对方最好的事情，即使不是对自己最好的事情。”

‘Why is it best, sir?’ returned Richard hastily. ‘It was not when we opened our hearts to you. You did not say so then.’
“为什么这是最好的，先生？”理查德急忙回答道。 ‘那不是我们向你敞开心扉的时候。那时你没有这么说。

‘I have had experience since. I don’t blame you, Rick, but I have had experience since.’
‘从那以后我就有了经验。我不怪你，里克，但从那以后我就有了经验。

‘You mean of me, sir.’
“你是在说我，先生。”

‘Well! Yes, of both of you,’ said Mr. Jarndyce kindly. ‘The time is not come for your standing pledged to one another. It is not right, and I must not recognize it. Come, come, my young cousins, begin afresh! Bygones shall be bygones, and a new page turned for you to write your lives in.’
'出色地！是的，你们俩，”贾迪斯先生和蔼地说。 ‘你们相互宣誓的时候还没有到。这是不对的，我一定不能承认。来吧，来吧，我年轻的表弟们，重新开​​始吧！过去的就过去了，新的一页已经翻开，供你书写自己的人生。”

Richard gave an anxious glance at Ada but said nothing.
理查德焦急地看了艾达一眼，但什么也没说。

‘I have avoided saying one word to either of you or to Esther,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘until now, in order that we might be open as the day, and all on equal terms. I now affectionately advise, I now most earnestly entreat, you two to part as you came here. Leave all else to time, truth, and steadfastness. If you do otherwise, you will do wrong, and you will have made me do wrong in ever bringing you together.’
“直到现在，我都避免对你们或埃丝特说一句话，”贾迪斯先生说，“为了让我们能够像白天一样开放，并且一切都平等。”我现在亲切地劝告，现在恳切地恳求你们二人既然来到这里就分手吧。其他一切都交给时间、真理和坚定。如果你不这样做，你就会做错事，你也会让我在把你们聚集在一起时做错事。

A long silence succeeded.
长久的沉默成功了。

‘Cousin Richard,’ said Ada then, raising her blue eyes tenderly to his face, ‘after what our cousin John has said, I think no choice is left us. Your mind may he quite at ease about me, for you will leave me here under his care and will be sure that I can have nothing to wish for—quite sure if I guide myself by his advice. I—I don’t doubt, cousin Richard,’ said Ada, a little confused, ‘that you are very fond of me, and I—I don’t think you will fall in love with anybody else. But I should like you to consider well about it too, as I should like you to be in all things very happy. You may trust in me, cousin Richard. I am not at all changeable; but I am not unreasonable, and should never blame you. Even cousins may be sorry to part; and in truth I am very, very sorry, Richard, though I know it’s for your welfare. I shall always think of you affectionately, and often talk of you with Esther, and—and perhaps you will sometimes think a little of me, cousin Richard. So now,’ said Ada, going up to him and giving him her trembling hand, ‘we are only cousins again, Richard—for the time perhaps— and I pray for a blessing on my dear cousin, wherever he goes!’
“理查德表弟，”艾达说道，温柔地抬起蓝眼睛看着他的脸，“听了我们的表弟约翰的话，我想我们已经别无选择了。愿你的心对我很放心，因为你会把我留在这里，由他照顾，并确保我不会有任何愿望——如果我按照他的建议指导自己，那就很确定了。我——我毫不怀疑，理查德表弟，”艾达有点困惑地说，“你非常喜欢我，而且我——我认为你不会爱上任何人。但我希望你也能好好考虑一下，因为我希望你在所有事情上都非常快乐。你可以相信我，理查德表弟。我一点也不善变；但我也不是无理取闹，也不应该责怪你。即使是堂兄弟姐妹也可能会因分离而感到遗憾。事实上，我非常非常抱歉，理查德，尽管我知道这是为了你的福祉。我将永远深情地想起你，经常和埃丝特谈论你，而且——也许你有时会想起我，理查德表弟。所以现在，”艾达走到他面前，伸出颤抖的手，“我们又只是表兄弟了，理查德——也许只是暂时——无论我亲爱的表弟走到哪里，我都祈祷他能得到祝福！”

It was strange to me that Richard should not be able to forgive my guardian for entertaining the very same opinion of him which he himself had expressed of himself in much stronger terms to me. But it was certainly the case. I observed with great regret that from this hour he never was as free and open with Mr. Jarndyce as he had been before. He had every reason given him to be so, but he was not; and solely on his side, an estrangement began to arise between them.
让我感到奇怪的是，理查德不能原谅我的监护人对他的看法，而他本人也曾以更强烈的措辞向我表达过自己的看法。但事实确实如此。我非常遗憾地发现，从这一刻起，他对詹迪斯先生再也没有像以前那样自由和开放了。他有充分的理由这样做，但他没有。仅就他而言，他们之间开始产生隔阂。

In the business of preparation and equipment he soon lost himself, and even his grief at parting from Ada, who remained in Hertfordshire while he, Mr. Jarndyce, and I went up to London for a week. He remembered her by fits and starts, even with bursts of tears, and at such times would confide to me the heaviest selfreproaches. But in a few minutes he would recklessly conjure up some undefinable means by which they were both to be made rich and happy for ever, and would become as gay as possible.
在准备和装备的工作中，他很快就失去了自我，甚至失去了与艾达分手时的悲伤，艾达留在赫特福德郡，而他、贾迪斯先生和我去了伦敦一周。他时断时续地想起她，甚至泪流满面，在这种时候，他会向我吐露最沉重的自责。但几分钟之内，他就会鲁莽地想出一些无法定义的方法，让他们俩永远变得富有和幸福，并尽可能变得快乐。

It was a busy time, and I trotted about with him all day long, buying a variety of things of which he stood in need. Of the things he would have bought if he had been left to his own ways I say nothing. He was perfectly confidential with me, and often talked so sensibly and feelingly about his faults and his vigorous resolutions, and dwelt so much upon the encouragement he derived from these conversations that I could never have been tired if I had tried.
那段时间很忙，我整天跟着他跑来跑去，买了各种各样他需要的东西。如果让他按照自己的方式行事，他会买什么东西，我什么也没说。他对我完全保密，经常如此明智而深情地谈论他的缺点和他坚定的决心，并详细阐述了他从这些谈话中获得的鼓励，如果我尝试过，我永远不会感到疲倦。

There used, in that week, to come backward and forward to our lodging to fence with Richard a person who had formerly been a cavalry soldier; he was a fine bluff-looking man, of a frank free bearing, with whom Richard had practised for some months. I heard so much about him, not only from Richard, but from my guardian too, that I was purposely in the room with my work one morning after breakfast when he came.
那个星期，我们经常来来回回地到我们的住处和理查德围堵一个以前是骑兵的人。他是一个看上去很直率的人，举止坦率，自由自在，理查德已经和他练习了几个月了。我不仅从理查德那里听说了很多关于他的事情，而且还从我的监护人那里听说了很多关于他的事情，以至于有一天早上早餐后，当他来的时候，我特意在房间里工作。

‘Good morning, Mr. George,’ said my guardian, who happened to be alone with me. ‘Mr. Carstone will be here directly. Meanwhile, Miss Summerson is very happy to see you, I know. Sit down.’
“早上好，乔治先生，”我的监护人说，他恰好和我单独在一起。 '先生。卡斯通将直接赶到。与此同时，我知道，萨默森小姐很高兴见到你。坐下。'

He sat down, a little disconcerted by my presence, I thought, and without looking at me, drew his heavy sunburnt hand across and across his upper lip.
我想，他坐下来，对我的存在感到有点不安，没有看我，用他那被晒伤的厚重的手抚过他的上唇。

‘You are as punctual as the sun,’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“你像太阳一样准时，”贾迪斯先生说。

‘Military time, sir,’ he replied. ‘Force of habit. A mere habit in me, sir. I am not at all business-like.’
“军事时间，长官，”他回答道。 ‘习惯的力量。先生，这只是我的习惯。我一点也不务实。

‘Yet you have a large establishment, too, I am told?’ said Mr. Jarndyce.
“然而，有人告诉我，你们也有一个很大的机构吗？”贾迪斯先生说。

‘Not much of a one, sir. I keep a shooting gallery, but not much of a one.’
“不是什么大不了的事，先生。我有一个射击场，但规模不大。

‘And what kind of a shot and what kind of a swordsman do you make of Mr. Carstone?’ said my guardian.
“你认为卡斯通先生是怎样的一击、怎样的剑客？”我的监护人问道。

‘Pretty good, sir,’ he replied, folding his arms upon his broad chest and looking very large. ‘If Mr. Carstone was to give his full mind to it, he would come out very good.’
“很好，先生。”他回答道，双臂交叉放在宽阔的胸前，看起来非常高大。 “如果卡斯通先生全身心投入，他会取得很好的成绩。”

‘But he don’t, I suppose?’ said my guardian.
“但我想他不会吧？”我的监护人说。

‘He did at first, sir, but not afterwards. Not his full mind. Perhaps he has something else upon it—some young lady, perhaps.’ His bright dark eyes glanced at me for the first time.
“他一开始这么做了，先生，但后来就不再这么做了。不是他的全部心思。也许他上面还有别的东西——也许是某个年轻女士。”他明亮的黑眼睛第一次扫了我一眼。

‘He has not me upon his mind, I assure you, Mr. George,’ said I, laughing, ‘though you seem to suspect me.’
“他心里没有我，我向你保证，乔治先生，”我笑着说，“尽管你似乎怀疑我。”

He reddened a little through his brown and made me a trooper’s bow. ‘No offence, I hope, miss. I am one of the roughs.’
他的棕色皮肤变红了一点，给我做了一把士兵的弓。 “我希望无意冒犯，小姐。我是粗暴的人之一。

‘Not at all,’ said I. ‘I take it as a compliment.’
“一点也不，”我说，“我认为这是一种恭维。”

If he had not looked at me before, he looked at me now in three or four quick successive glances. ‘I beg your pardon, sir,’ he said to my guardian with a manly kind of diffidence, ‘but you did me the honour to mention the young lady’s name—‘
如果他以前没有看过我，现在他会连续快速地看了我三四眼。 “请您原谅，先生，”他带着一种男子气概的自信对我的监护人说道，“但是您让我荣幸地提到了这位年轻女士的名字——”

‘Miss Summerson.’
“萨默森小姐。”

‘Miss Summerson,’ he repeated, and looked at me again.
“萨默森小姐，”他重复道，然后再次看着我。

‘Do you know the name?’ I asked.
“你知道名字吗？”我问。

‘No, miss. To my knowledge I never heard it. I thought I had seen you somewhere.’
‘不，小姐。据我所知，我从未听说过。我以为我在什么地方见过你。

‘I think not,’ I returned, raising my head from my work to look at him; and there was something so genuine in his speech and manner that I was glad of the opportunity. ‘I remember faces very well.’
“我想不是，”我回答道，从工作中抬起头来看着他。他的言语和态度都非常真诚，我很高兴有这个机会。 “我对面孔记得很清楚。”

‘So do I, miss!’ he returned, meeting my look with the fullness of his dark eyes and broad forehead. ‘Humph! What set me off, now, upon that!’
“我也是，小姐！”他回答道，用他饱满的黑眼睛和宽阔的额头迎着我的目光。 '哼！是什么让我如此激动，现在，就这个！

His once more reddening through his brown and being disconcerted by his efforts to remember the association brought my guardian to his relief.
他的棕色脸色再次变得通红，并因努力记住这一联想而感到不安，这让我的监护人松了口气。

‘Have you many pupils, Mr. George?’
“乔治先生，你有很多学生吗？”

‘They vary in their number, sir. Mostly they’re but a small lot to live by.’
“它们的数量各不相同，长官。大多数情况下，它们只是一小部分赖以生存的土地。

‘And what classes of chance people come to practise at your gallery?’
“人们来你的画廊练习的机会是什么？”

‘All sorts, sir. Natives and foreigners. From gentlemen to ‘prentices. I have had Frenchwomen come, before now, and show themselves dabs at pistol-shooting. Mad people out of number, of course, but THEY go everywhere where the doors stand open.’
“各种各样，先生。本地人和外国人。从绅士到“学徒”。在此之前，我曾邀请法国女性来展示自己手枪射击的技巧。当然，疯狂的人数量不计其数，但只要有门，他们就会去任何地方。

‘People don’t come with grudges and schemes of finishing their practice with live targets, I hope?’ said my guardian, smiling.
“我希望人们不会怀着怨恨和计划来完成他们的练习，我希望如此？”我的监护人微笑着说道。

‘Not much of that, sir, though that HAS happened. Mostly they come for skill—or idleness. Six of one, and half-a-dozen of the other. I beg your pardon,’ said Mr. George, sitting stiffly upright and squaring an elbow on each knee, ‘but I believe you’re a Chancery suitor, if I have heard correct?’
“虽然那件事已经发生了，但先生，那件事并不多。”他们大多是为了技能而来——或者是为了闲散。一个是六个，另一个是六个。请您原谅，”乔治先生说，他笔直地坐着，双肘撑在膝盖上，“但我相信您是大法官法庭的追求者，如果我没听错的话？

‘I am sorry to say I am.’
“我很遗憾地说我是。”

‘I have had one of YOUR compatriots in my time, sir.’
“我曾经有过一位你的同胞，先生。”

‘A Chancery suitor?’ returned my guardian. ‘How was that?’
“大法官法庭的求婚者？”我的监护人回答道。 '怎么样？'

‘Why, the man was so badgered and worried and tortured by being knocked about from post to pillar, and from pillar to post,’ said Mr. George, ‘that he got out of sorts. I don’t believe he had any idea of taking aim at anybody, but he was in that condition of resentment and violence that he would come and pay for fifty shots and fire away till he was red hot. One day I said to him when there was nobody by and he had been talking to me angrily about his wrongs, ‘If this practice is a safety-valve, comrade, well and good; but I don’t altogether like your being so bent upon it in your present state of mind; I’d rather you took to something else.’ I was on my guard for a blow, he was that passionate; but he received it in very good part and left off directly. We shook hands and struck up a sort of friendship.’
“哎呀，这个人被从一个柱子撞到另一个柱子，从一个柱子撞到另一个柱子，如此困扰、担心和折磨，”乔治先生说，“他变得不舒服了。”我不相信他有任何瞄准任何人的想法，但他处于一种怨恨和暴力的状态，他会来付五十枪的费用，然后开枪直到他变得红热。有一天，我对他说，当时旁边没有人，而他一直在愤怒地跟我谈论他的错误，“如果这种做法是一个安全阀，同志，那就太好了；”但我完全不喜欢你现在的心态如此执着于这件事；我宁愿你去做别的事。”我很警惕，以防受到打击，他是如此热情；但他收到了很好的部分，然后就直接离开了。我们握手并建立了某种友谊。

‘What was that man?’ asked my guardian in a new tone of interest.
“那个人是什么人？”我的监护人用一种新的感兴趣的语气问道。

‘Why, he began by being a small Shropshire farmer before they made a baited bull of him,’ said Mr. George.
“哎呀，他一开始只是什罗普郡的一个小农民，后来他们把他变成了一头诱饵公牛，”乔治先生说。

‘Was his name Gridley?’
“他叫格里德利吗？”

‘It was, sir.’
“是的，先生。”

Mr. George directed another succession of quick bright glances at me as my guardian and I exchanged a word or two of surprise at the coincidence, and I therefore explained to him how we knew the name. He made me another of his soldierly bows in acknowledgment of what he called my condescension.
乔治先生又一连串地快速明亮地看了我一眼，作为我的监护人，我对这个巧合交换了一两句话，表示惊讶，因此我向他解释了我们是如何知道这个名字的。他又向我鞠了一躬，以表示我的屈尊俯就。

‘I don’t know,’ he said as he looked at me, ‘what it is that sets me off again—but—bosh! What’s my head running against!’ He passed one of his heavy hands over his crisp dark hair as if to sweep the broken thoughts out of his mind and sat a little forward, with one arm akimbo and the other resting on his leg, looking in a brown study at the ground.
“我不知道，”他看着我说道，“是什么让我再次兴奋起来——但是——波什！”我的头在撞什么！”他用一只沉重的手抚摸着他挺括的黑发，仿佛要把脑海中那些支离破碎的思绪一扫而空，然后坐得稍微靠前，一只手叉腰，另一只手搭在腿上，向里看去。地面上的棕色研究。

‘I am sorry to learn that the same state of mind has got this Gridley into new troubles and that he is in hiding,’ said my guardian.
我的监护人说：“我很遗憾地得知，同样的心态让这个格里德利陷入了新的麻烦，而且他现在躲藏起来了。”

‘So I am told, sir,’ returned Mr. George, still musing and looking on the ground. ‘So I am told.’
“有人告诉我的，先生，”乔治先生回答道，他仍然沉思着，看着地面。 “别人是这么告诉我的。”

‘You don’t know where?’
“你不知道在哪里？”

‘No, sir,’ returned the trooper, lifting up his eyes and coming out of his reverie. ‘I can’t say anything about him. He will be worn out soon, I expect. You may file a strong man’s heart away for a good many years, but it will tell all of a sudden at last.’
“不，长官，”士兵回答道，抬起眼睛，从沉思中回过神来。 ‘关于他我无话可说。我预计他很快就会疲惫不堪。你可能会把一颗坚强的人的心锉掉很多年，但最后它会突然告诉你答案。

Richard’s entrance stopped the conversation. Mr. George rose, made me another of his soldierly bows, wished my guardian a good day, and strode heavily out of the room.
理查德的到来打断了谈话。乔治先生站起身来，再次向我鞠了一躬，祝我的监护人有美好的一天，然后大步走出房间。

This was the morning of the day appointed for Richard’s departure. We had no more purchases to make now; I had completed all his packing early in the afternoon; and our time was disengaged until night, when he was to go to Liverpool for Holyhead. Jarndyce and Jarndyce being again expected to come on that day, Richard proposed to me that we should go down to the court and hear what passed. As it was his last day, and he was eager to go, and I had never been there, I gave my consent and we walked down to Westminster, where the court was then sitting. We beguiled the way with arrangements concerning the letters that Richard was to write to me and the letters that I was to write to him and with a great many hopeful projects. My guardian knew where we were going and therefore was not with us.
这是理查德预定出发的那天早上。我们现在没有再买东西了；下午早些时候我就帮他收拾好了所有的行李。我们的时间一直闲置到晚上，那时他要去利物浦去霍利黑德。贾迪斯和贾迪斯那天再次预计会来，理查德向我提议我们应该去法庭听听发生了什么。因为这是他的最后一天，他很想去，而我从来没有去过那里，所以我同意了，我们步行到威斯敏斯特，当时法庭就在那里。我们用有关理查德要写给我的信和我要写给他的信的安排以及许多充满希望的计划来迷惑我们。我的监护人知道我们要去哪里，因此没有和我们在一起。

When we came to the court, there was the Lord Chancellor—the same whom I had seen in his private room in Lincoln’s Inn—sitting in great state and gravity on the bench, with the mace and seals on a red table below him and an immense flat nosegay, like a little garden, which scented the whole court. Below the table, again, was a long row of solicitors, with bundles of papers on the matting at their feet; and then there were the gentlemen of the bar in wigs and gowns—some awake and some asleep, and one talking, and nobody paying much attention to what he said. The Lord Chancellor leaned back in his very easy chair with his elbow on the cushioned arm and his forehead resting on his hand; some of those who were present dozed; some read the newspapers; some walked about or whispered in groups: all seemed perfectly at their ease, by no means in a hurry, very unconcerned, and extremely comfortable.
当我们来到法庭时，大法官——就是我在林肯律师学院的私人房间里见过的那个人——神情严肃地坐在长凳上，狼牙棒和印章放在他下面的一张红色桌子上，还有一张桌子。巨大而平坦的花束，像一座小花园，让整个庭院充满了香气。桌子下面又是一长排律师，脚边的垫子上放着一捆捆文件。然后是酒吧里戴着假发、穿着长袍的绅士们——有的醒着，有的睡着了，还有一个在说话，但没有人太注意他所说的话。大法官靠在他那张非常安乐的椅子上，肘部放在有软垫的扶手上，额头靠在手上。在场的一些人打瞌睡；有些人看报纸；有的人三五成群地走来走去，窃窃私语，一切都显得非常自在，一点也不匆忙，很不关心，非常舒服。

To see everything going on so smoothly and to think of the roughness of the suitors’ lives and deaths; to see all that full dress and ceremony and to think of the waste, and want, and beggared misery it represented; to consider that while the sickness of hope deferred was raging in so many hearts this polite show went calmly on from day to day, and year to year, in such good order and composure; to behold the Lord Chancellor and the whole array of practitioners under him looking at one another and at the spectators as if nobody had ever heard that all over England the name in which they were assembled was a bitter jest, was held in universal horror, contempt, and indignation, was known for something so flagrant and bad that little short of a miracle could bring any good out of it to any one—this was so curious and selfcontradictory to me, who had no experience of it, that it was at first incredible, and I could not comprehend it. I sat where Richard put me, and tried to listen, and looked about me; but there seemed to be no reality in the whole scene except poor little Miss Flite, the madwoman, standing on a bench and nodding at it.
看着一切如此顺利，想到追求者的生死坎坷；看到所有盛装和仪式，想到它所代表的浪费、匮乏和乞讨的痛苦；想想看，虽然希望被推迟的病态在许多人心中肆虐，但这场礼貌的表演却日复一日、年复一年地平静地进行着，秩序井然、镇定自若；看到大法官和他手下的一大批实践者互相看着对方，看着观众，仿佛没有人听说过，在整个英格兰，他们聚集在一起的名字是一个苦涩的笑话，受到普遍的恐惧和蔑视和愤慨，因如此明目张胆和恶劣而闻名，以至于几乎没有奇迹可以给任何人带来任何好处——这对我来说是如此好奇和自相矛盾，因为我没有经历过它，所以一开始它是难以置信，我无法理解。我坐在理查德安排我的地方，努力倾听，环顾四周。但整个场景似乎没有任何真实性，除了可怜的小弗利特小姐，那个疯女人，站在长凳上对它点点头。

Miss Flite soon espied us and came to where we sat. She gave me a gracious welcome to her domain and indicated, with much gratification and pride, its principal attractions. Mr. Kenge also came to speak to us and did the honours of the place in much the same way, with the bland modesty of a proprietor. It was not a very good day for a visit, he said; he would have preferred the first day of term; but it was imposing, it was imposing.
弗利特小姐很快就发现了我们，来到我们坐的地方。她热情地欢迎我来到她的领地，并非常满意和自豪地指出了它的主要景点。肯格先生也来与我们交谈，并以几乎相同的方式为这个地方带来了荣誉，带着业主的温和谦虚。他说，今天不太适合出访。他更喜欢开学第一天；但这是令人印象深刻的，它是令人印象深刻的。

When we had been there half an hour or so, the case in progress—if I may use a phrase so ridiculous in such a connexion—seemed to die out of its own vapidity, without coming, or being by anybody expected to come, to any resuIt. The Lord Chancellor then threw down a bundle of papers from his desk to the gentlemen below him, and somebody said, ‘Jarndyce and Jarndyce.’ Upon this there was a buzz, and a laugh, and a general withdrawal of the bystanders, and a bringing in of great heaps, and piles, and bags and bags full of papers.
当我们在那里呆了半个小时左右时，正在进行的案件——如果我可以在这种联系中使用一个如此荒谬的短语——似乎因其自身的乏味而消亡，没有到来，也没有任何人预计会来，任何结果。然后，大法官从他的办公桌上把一叠文件扔给下面的先生们，有人说：“加迪斯和加迪斯。”这句话引起了一阵嗡嗡声和笑声，旁观者普遍退却了，然后带来一大堆、一大堆、一袋又一袋装满的文件。

I think it came on ‘for further directions’—about some bill of costs, to the best of my understanding, which was confused enough. But I counted twenty-three gentlemen in wigs who said they were ‘in it,’ and none of them appeared to understand it much better than I. They chatted about it with the Lord Chancellor, and contradicted and explained among themselves, and some of them said it was this way, and some of them said it was that way, and some of them jocosely proposed to read huge volumes of affidavits, and there was more buzzing and laughing, and everybody concerned was in a state of idle entertainment, and nothing could be made of it by anybody. After an hour or so of this, and a good many speeches being begun and cut short, it was ‘referred back for the present,’ as Mr. Kenge said, and the papers were bundled up again before the clerks had finished bringing them in.
我认为这是“为了进一步的指示”——据我所知，关于一些成本清单，这已经够混乱的了。但我数了数，有二十三位戴假发的绅士说他们“参与其中”，但他们似乎没有一个比我更了解这件事。他们与大法官谈论这件事，互相矛盾和解释，其中一些他们说是这样，有的说是这样，有的还开玩笑地提出要读大卷的宣誓书，议论纷纷，笑声多了，大家都处于闲暇娱乐的状态，任何人都无法利用它。经过一个小时左右的时间，许多演讲开始后又被打断，正如肯格先生所说，会议被“暂时退回”，文件在办事员把它们送进来之前又被重新捆扎起来。 。

I glanced at Richard on the termination of these hopeless proceedings and was shocked to see the worn look of his handsome young face. ‘It can’t last for ever, Dame Durden. Better luck next time!’ was all he said.
在这些绝望的诉讼结束时，我看了一眼理查德，惊讶地看到他年轻英俊的脸上憔悴的表情。 “这不可能永远持续下去，德登夫人。下次祝你好运！”他只说了这么一句话。

I had seen Mr. Guppy bringing in papers and arranging them for Mr. Kenge; and he had seen me and made me a forlorn bow, which rendered me desirous to get out of the court. Richard had given me his arm and was taking me away when Mr. Guppy came up.
我看到古皮先生把文件带来并为肯吉先生整理。他看到了我，向我鞠了一躬，这让我很想离开法庭。当古比先生走过来时，理查德已经把他的手臂给了我，正要带我离开。

‘I beg your pardon, Mr. Carstone,’ said he in a whisper, ‘and Miss Summerson’s also, but there’s a lady here, a friend of mine, who knows her and wishes to have the pleasure of shaking hands.’ As he spoke, I saw before me, as if she had started into bodily shape from my remembrance, Mrs. Rachael of my godmother’s house.
“请原谅，卡斯通先生，”他低声说道，“还有萨默森小姐，但是这里有一位女士，我的一个朋友，她认识她，希望有幸与她握手。”说话时，我看到我的教母家的雷切尔夫人，她的身体仿佛在我的记忆中开始成形。

‘How do you do, Esther?’ said she. ‘Do you recollect me?’
“你好吗，埃丝特？”她说。 “你还记得我吗？”

I gave her my hand and told her yes and that she was very little altered.
我向她伸出了手，告诉她是的，而且她几乎没有改变。

‘I wonder you remember those times, Esther,’ she returned with her old asperity. ‘They are changed now. Well! I am glad to see you, and glad you are not too proud to know me.’ But indeed she seemed disappointed that I was not.
“我不知道你还记得那些时候吗，艾丝特，”她带着一如既往的严厉回答道。 ‘他们现在变了。出色地！我很高兴见到你，也很高兴你并没有因为认识我而感到骄傲。”但事实上，她似乎对我没有感到失望。

‘Proud, Mrs. Rachael!’ I remonstrated.
“骄傲，雷切尔夫人！”我抗议道。

‘I am married, Esther,’ she returned, coldly correcting me, ‘and am Mrs. Chadband. Well! I wish you good day, and I hope you’ll do well.’
“我已经结婚了，埃丝特，”她冷冷地纠正我，“我是查德班德夫人。”出色地！祝你有美好的一天，希望你一切顺利。

Mr. Guppy, who had been attentive to this short dialogue, heaved a sigh in my ear and elbowed his own and Mrs. Rachael’s way through the confused little crowd of people coming in and going out, which we were in the midst of and which the change in the business had brought together. Richard and I were making our way through it, and I was yet in the first chill of the late unexpected recognition when I saw, coming towards us, but not seeing us, no less a person than Mr. George. He made nothing of the people about him as he tramped on, staring over their heads into the body of the court.
顾比先生一直在注意这段简短的对话，他在我耳边叹了口气，然后用肘部挤开自己和雷切尔夫人，穿过进进出出的一小群混乱的人群，我们就在这群人中间。业务的变化已经汇集在一起​​。理查德和我正在穿过它，当我看到他朝我们走来，但没有看到我们时，我还处于最后的意外认出的第一场寒意中，这个人不亚于乔治先生。当他继续前行时，他对周围的人毫不在意，目光越过他们的头顶，凝视着法庭的主体。

‘George!’ said Richard as I called his attention to him.
“乔治！”当我把理查德的注意力吸引到他身上时，他说道。

‘You are well met, sir,’ he returned. ‘And you, miss. Could you point a person out for me, I want? I don’t understand these places.’
“很高兴见到您，先生。”他回答道。 ‘还有你，小姐。我想要你能帮我指一个人吗？我不明白这些地方。

Turning as he spoke and making an easy way for us, he stopped when we were out of the press in a corner behind a great red curtain.
他一边说话一边转身给我们让路，当我们走出新闻界，在红色大窗帘后面的一个角落里时，他停了下来。

‘There’s a little cracked old woman,’ he began, ‘that—‘
“有一个有点精神崩溃的老妇人，”他开始说道，“那个——”

I put up my finger, for Miss Flite was close by me, having kept beside me all the time and having called the attention of several of her legal acquaintance to me (as I had overheard to my confusion) by whispering in their ears, ‘Hush! Fitz Jarndyce on my left!’
我竖起手指，因为弗利特小姐就在我身边，她一直陪在我身边，并在她的几个法律熟人耳边低语，引起了我的注意（我无意中听到了这一点，这让我很困惑），“嘘！菲茨·贾迪斯在我左边！”

‘Hem!’ said Mr. George. ‘You remember, miss, that we passed some conversation on a certain man this morning? Gridley,’ in a low whisper behind his hand.
“哼！”乔治先生说。 “小姐，您还记得今天早上我们谈过一个关于某个人的事吗？”格里德利，”他在手后低声说道。

‘Yes,’ said I.
“是的，”我说。

‘He is hiding at my place. I couldn’t mention it. Hadn’t his authority. He is on his last march, miss, and has a whim to see her. He says they can feel for one another, and she has been almost as good as a friend to him here. I came down to look for her, for when I sat by Gridley this afternoon, I seemed to hear the roll of the muffled drums.’
‘他躲在我家。我无法提及。没有他的权力。小姐，他正在最后一次行军，突发奇想想见见她。他说他们可以互相感觉，而她在这里几乎就像他的朋友一样。我下来找她，因为今天下午我坐在格里德利旁边时，我似乎听到了低沉的鼓声。

‘Shall I tell her?’ said I.
“我要告诉她吗？”我说。

‘Would you be so good?’ he returned with a glance of something like apprehension at Miss Flite. ‘It’s a providence I met you, miss; I doubt if I should have known how to get on with that lady.’ And he put one hand in his breast and stood upright in a martial attitude as I informed little Miss Flite, in her ear, of the purport of his kind errand.
“你能这么乖吗？”他回了话，脸上带着某种忧虑的眼神看着弗利特小姐。 “我遇见你真是天意，小姐；我怀疑我是否应该知道如何与那位女士相处。”当我在小弗利特小姐耳边告诉她他的善意差事的目的时，他把一只手放在胸前，以一种军事态度笔直地站着。

‘My angry friend from Shropshire! Almost as celebrated as myself!’ she exclaimed. ‘Now really! My dear, I will wait upon him with the greatest pleasure.’
“我来自什罗普郡的愤怒的朋友！几乎和我一样出名！”她惊呼道。 ‘现在真的！亲爱的，我会非常高兴地侍候他。

‘He is living concealed at Mr. George’s,’ said I. ‘Hush! This is Mr. George.’
“他隐秘地住在乔治先生家里，”我说。“嘘！嘘！”这是乔治先生。

‘In—deed!’ returned Miss Flite. ‘Very proud to have the honour! A military man, my dear. You know, a perfect general!’ she whispered to me.
“确实如此！”弗利特小姐回答道。 ‘非常荣幸能获得此殊荣！亲爱的，一个军人。你知道，一位完美的将军！”她低声对我说。

Poor Miss Flite deemed it necessary to be so courtly and polite, as a mark of her respect for the army, and to curtsy so very often that it was no easy matter to get her out of the court. When this was at last done, and addressing Mr. George as ‘General,’ she gave him her arm, to the great entertainment of some idlers who were looking on, he was so discomposed and begged me so respectfully ‘not to desert him’ that I could not make up my mind to do it, especially as Miss Flite was always tractable with me and as she too said, ‘Fitz Jarndyce, my dear, you will accompany us, of course.’ As Richard seemed quite willing, and even anxious, that we should see them safely to their destination, we agreed to do so. And as Mr. George informed us that Gridley’s mind had run on Mr. Jarndyce all the afternoon after hearing of their interview in the morning, I wrote a hasty note in pencil to my guardian to say where we were gone and why. Mr. George sealed it at a coffee-house, that it might lead to no discovery, and we sent it off by a ticketporter.
可怜的弗利特小姐认为有必要如此彬彬有礼和礼貌，以表达她对军队的尊重，并且经常行屈膝礼，以至于要让她离开法庭并不容易。当这一切终于完成后，她称呼乔治先生为“将军”，她把手臂伸给了他，这让一些在场的闲人感到很开心，他非常不安，并恭敬地恳求我“不要抛弃他”我无法下定决心这样做，尤其是弗利特小姐总是对我很温顺，而且她也说：“菲茨·贾迪斯，亲爱的，当然，你会陪我们一起去。”理查德似乎很愿意，并且尽管担心我们应该送他们安全到达目的地，我们还是同意这样做。乔治先生告诉我们，格里德利在早上听到他们的采访后整个下午都在想着贾迪斯先生，我用铅笔匆忙地给我的监护人写了一张纸条，说明我们去了哪里以及为什么。乔治先生把它封在一家咖啡馆里，以免被人发现，然后我们就由票务搬运工把它寄走了。

We then took a hackney-coach and drove away to the neighbourhood of Leicester Square. We walked through some narrow courts, for which Mr. George apologized, and soon came to the shooting gallery, the door of which was closed. As he pulled a bell-handle which hung by a chain to the door-post, a very respectable old gentleman with grey hair, wearing spectacles, and dressed in a black spencer and gaiters and a broad-brimmed hat, and carrying a large gold-beaded cane, addressed him.
然后我们乘坐一辆出租客车前往莱斯特广场附近。我们穿过一些狭窄的球场，乔治先生对此表示歉意，很快就来到了射击场，射击场的门是关着的。当他拉动用链子挂在门柱上的钟把手时，一位非常受人尊敬的老绅士，头发花白，戴着眼镜，穿着黑色斯宾塞和绑腿，戴着宽边帽，手里拿着一个大金币。 ——串珠手杖，对他说道。

‘I ask your pardon, my good friend,’ said he, ‘but is this George’s Shooting Gallery?’
“请原谅，我的好朋友，”他说，“这是乔治射击场吗？”

‘It is, sir,’ returned Mr. George, glancing up at the great letters in which that inscription was painted on the whitewashed wall.
“是的，先生，”乔治先生回答道，他抬头看了一眼粉刷过的墙上刻着的大字。

‘Oh! To be sure!’ said the old gentleman, following his eyes. ‘Thank you. Have you rung the bell?’
'哦！当然！”老先生顺着他的目光说道。 '谢谢。你按过门铃吗？

‘My name is George, sir, and I have rung the bell.’
“我叫乔治，先生，我已经按响了门铃。”

‘Oh, indeed?’ said the old gentleman. ‘Your name is George? Then I am here as soon as you, you see. You came for me, no doubt?’
“哦，确实如此？”老先生说道。 ‘你叫乔治？然后你一看到我就来了。毫无疑问，你是来找我的？

‘No, sir. You have the advantage of me.’
'不，先生。你比我有优势。

‘Oh, indeed?’ said the old gentleman. ‘Then it was your young man who came for me. I am a physician and was requested—five minutes ago—to come and visit a sick man at George’s Shooting Gallery.’
“哦，确实如此？”老先生说道。 ‘然后就是你的年轻人来找我了。我是一名医生，五分钟前有人要求我去乔治射击馆看望一名病人。

‘The muffled drums,’ said Mr. George, turning to Richard and me and gravely shaking his head. ‘It’s quite correct, sir. Will you please to walk in.’
“低沉的鼓声，”乔治先生转向理查德和我，严肃地摇着头说道。 ‘这是非常正确的，先生。请您走进去好吗？

The door being at that moment opened by a very singular-looking little man in a green-baize cap and apron, whose face and hands and dress were blackened all over, we passed along a dreary passage into a large building with bare brick walls where there were targets, and guns, and swords, and other things of that kind. When we had all arrived here, the physician stopped, and taking off his hat, appeared to vanish by magic and to leave another and quite a different man in his place.
就在这时，门被一个长相奇特的小个子男人打开了，他戴着绿色毛呢帽，穿着围裙，脸、手和衣服都被熏黑了。我们穿过一条沉闷的通道，走进一座砖墙裸露的大建筑，有靶子、枪、剑和其他类似的东西。当我们都到达这里时，医生停了下来，摘下帽子，似乎神奇地消失了，留下了另一个完全不同的人代替他。

‘Now lookee here, George,’ said the man, turning quickly round upon him and tapping him on the breast with a large forefinger. ‘You know me, and I know you. You’re a man of the world, and I’m a man of the world. My name’s Bucket, as you are aware, and I have got a peace-warrant against Gridley. You have kept him out of the way a long time, and you have been artful in it, and it does you credit.’
“现在看这里，乔治，”那人说着，迅速转过身来，用一根大食指敲击他的胸口。 ‘你认识我，我也认识你。你是一个世界的人，我也是一个世界的人。如你所知，我叫巴克特，我收到了针对格里德利的和平令。你已经让他远离了很长一段时间，而且你做得很巧妙，这值得你赞扬。

Mr. George, looking hard at him, bit his lip and shook his head.
乔治先生认真地看着他，咬着嘴唇摇了摇头。

‘Now, George,’ said the other, keeping close to him, ‘you’re a sensible man and a well-conducted man; that’s what YOU are, beyond a doubt. And mind you, I don’t talk to you as a common character, because you have served your country and you know that when duty calls we must obey. Consequently you’re very far from wanting to give trouble. If I required assistance, you’d assist me; that’s what YOU’D do. Phil Squod, don’t you go a-sidling round the gallery like that’—the dirty little man was shuffling about with his shoulder against the wall, and his eyes on the intruder, in a manner that looked threatening—‘because I know you and won’t have it.’
“现在，乔治，”另一个人靠近他说道，“你是一个明智的人，也是一个品行良好的人；毫无疑问，这就是你。请注意，我不会把你当作一个普通人来说话，因为你为你的国家服务过，你知道当责任召唤时我们必须服从。因此，你根本就不想惹麻烦。如果我需要帮助，你会帮助我；这就是你要做的。菲尔·斯阔德，你不要像那样在画廊里侧行吗？”——那个肮脏的小个子男人肩膀靠在墙上，拖着脚走来走去，他的眼睛盯着入侵者，眼神里充满了威胁——“因为我知道你不会拥有它。

‘Phil!’ said Mr. George.
“菲尔！”乔治先生说。

‘Yes, guv’ner.’
“是的，州长。”

‘Be quiet.’
'安静。'

The little man, with a low growl, stood still.
小个子低吼一声，站在原地不动。

‘Ladies and gentlemen,’ said Mr. Bucket, ‘you’ll excuse anything that may appear to be disagreeable in this, for my name’s Inspector Bucket of the Detective, and I have a duty to perform. George, I know where my man is because I was on the roof last night and saw him through the skylight, and you along with him. He is in there, you know,’ pointing; ‘that’s where HE is—on a sofy. Now I must see my man, and I must tell my man to consider himself in custody; but you know me, and you know I don’t want to take any uncomfortable measures. You give me your word, as from one man to another (and an old soldier, mind you, likewise), that it’s honourable between us two, and I’ll accommodate you to the utmost of my power.’
“女士们，先生们，”巴克特先生说，“如果有任何不愉快的地方，请原谅，因为我是侦探督察巴克特，我有责任履行。”乔治，我知道我的人在哪里，因为昨晚我在屋顶上，透过天窗看到了他，还有你和他。他就在那里，你知道，”他指着； “这就是他所在的地方——坐在沙发上。”现在我必须见我的人，我必须告诉我的人考虑自己被拘留；但你了解我，你知道我不想采取任何不舒服的措施。你向我保证，就像从一个人到另一个人一样（还有一位老士兵，请注意，同样），我们两个之间是光荣的，我将尽我最大的能力容纳你。

‘I give it,’ was the reply. ‘“But it wasn’t handsome in you, Mr. Bucket.’
“我给了，”他回答道。 “但你并不英俊，巴克特先生。”

‘Gammon, George! Not handsome?’ said Mr. Bucket, tapping him on his broad breast again and shaking hands with him. ‘I don’t say it wasn’t handsome in you to keep my man so close, do I? Be equally good-tempered to me, old boy! Old William Tell, Old Shaw, the Life Guardsman! Why, he’s a model of the whole British army in himself, ladies and gentlemen. I’d give a fifty-pun’ note to be such a figure of a man!’
“金门，乔治！不帅吗？”巴克特先生说，再次拍拍他宽阔的胸膛，并与他握手。 “我并不是说你和我的男人如此亲近，这对你来说是不英俊的，不是吗？”老家伙，对我也同样客气一点吧！老威廉泰尔，老肖，救生员！嘿，女士们先生们，他本人就是整个英国军队的典范。我愿意付出五十个双关语才能成为这样一个男人！

The affair being brought to this head, Mr. George, after a little consideration, proposed to go in first to his comrade (as he called him), taking Miss Flite with him. Mr. Bucket agreeing, they went away to the further end of the gallery, leaving us sitting and standing by a table covered with guns. Mr. Bucket took this opportunity of entering into a little light conversation, asking me if I were afraid of fire-arms, as most young ladies were; asking Richard if he were a good shot; asking Phil Squod which he considered the best of those rifles and what it might be worth first-hand, telling him in return that it was a pity he ever gave way to his temper, for he was naturally so amiable that he might have been a young woman, and making himself generally agreeable.
事已至此，乔治先生考虑了一下，提议先带弗利特小姐去见他的同志（他这样称呼他）。巴克特先生同意了，他们走到画廊的另一端，留下我们在摆满枪的桌子旁坐着或站着。巴克特先生借此机会进行了一次轻松的谈话，问我是否像大多数年轻女士一样害怕枪支；问理查德是否是个好枪手；询问菲尔·斯夸德，他认为这些步枪中哪一款最好，以及它的第一手价值，并告诉他，遗憾的是他曾经发脾气，因为他生性如此和蔼可亲，以至于他可能会成为一名年轻女子，并且表现得总体上和蔼可亲。

After a time he followed us to the further end of the gallery, and Richard and I were going quietly away when Mr. George came after us. He said that if we had no objection to see his comrade, he would take a visit from us very kindly. The words had hardly passed his lips when the bell was rung and my guardian appeared, ‘on the chance,’ he slightly observed, ‘of being able to do any little thing for a poor fellow involved in the same misfortune as himself.’ We all four went back together and went into the place where Gridley was.
过了一会儿，他跟着我们到了画廊的尽头，当乔治先生追上我们时，理查德和我正悄悄地走开。他说如果我们不反对见见他的同志，他会非常热情地接待我们。话音刚落，铃声就响了，我的监护人出现了，“有机会，”他淡淡地说道，“能够为一个和他遭遇同样不幸的可怜人做点小事。”我们四个人一起回到格里德利所在的地方。

It was a bare room, partitioned off from the gallery with unpainted wood. As the screening was not more than eight or ten feet high and only enclosed the sides, not the top, the rafters of the high gallery roof were overhead, and the skylight through which Mr. Bucket had looked down. The sun was low—near setting—and its light came redly in above, without descending to the ground. Upon a plain canvas-covered sofa lay the man from Shropshire, dressed much as we had seen him last, but so changed that at first I recognized no likeness in his colourless face to what I recollected.
这是一间空荡荡的房间，用未上漆的木头与画廊隔开。由于屏风不超过八英尺或十英尺高，而且只围住了侧面，而不是顶部，所以画廊屋顶高高的椽子就在头顶上，而巴克特先生则透过天窗往下看。太阳很低——快要落山了——它的光芒从上方射入红色，但没有落到地面上。一张朴素的帆布沙发上躺着那个来自什罗普郡的男人，他的穿着与我们上次见到他时的样子很相似，但变化太大，以至于起初我认不出他那张毫无血色的脸与我记忆中的样子有什么相似之处。

He had been still writing in his hiding-place, and still dwelling on his grievances, hour after hour. A table and some shelves were covered with manuscript papers and with worn pens and a medley of such tokens. Touchingly and awfully drawn together, he and the little mad woman were side by side and, as it were, alone. She sat on a chair holding his hand, and none of us went close to them.
他仍然在藏身之处写作，仍然一小时又一小时地沉浸在他的委屈之中。一张桌子和一些架子上堆满了手稿纸、破旧的钢笔和各种类似的代币。他和那个小疯女人肩并肩，而且可以说是孤独一人，令人感动又可怕地被吸引在一起。她坐在椅子上，握着他的手，我们谁也没有靠近他们。

His voice had faded, with the old expression of his face, with his strength, with his anger, with his resistance to the wrongs that had at last subdued him. The faintest shadow of an object full of form and colour is such a picture of it as he was of the man from Shropshire whom we had spoken with before.
他的声音已经消失，他脸上的表情、他的力量、他的愤怒、他对最终征服他的错误的抵抗都消失了。一个充满形状和色彩的物体的最微弱的影子就是这样一幅图画，就像我们之前交谈过的那个来自什罗普郡的人一样。

He inclined his head to Richard and me and spoke to my guardian.
他向理查德和我倾斜了头，并对我的监护人说话。

‘Mr. Jarndyce, it is very kind of you to come to see me. I am not long to be seen, I think. I am very glad to take your hand, sir. You are a good man, superior to injustice, and God knows I honour you.’
'先生。贾迪斯，你来看我真是太好了。我想，我的出现时间不长了。先生，我很高兴握住您的手。你是一个好人，优于不公正，上帝知道我尊重你。

They shook hands earnestly, and my guardian said some words of comfort to him.
他们认真地握手，我的监护人对他说了一些安慰的话。

‘It may seem strange to you, sir,’ returned Gridley; ‘I should not have liked to see you if this had been the flrst time of our meeting. But you know I made a fight for it, you know I stood up with my single hand against them all, you know I told them the truth to the last, and told them what they were, and what they had done to me; so I don’t mind your seeing me, this wreck.’
“您可能觉得这很奇怪，先生，”格里德利回答道。 “如果这是我们第一次见面，我就不喜欢见到你。但你知道我为此进行了斗争，你知道我用我的一只手站起来反对他们所有人，你知道我直到最后都告诉了他们真相，告诉他们他们是什么，以及他们对我做了什么;所以我不介意你看到我这个残骸。”

‘You have been courageous with them many and many a time,’ returned my guardian.
我的监护人回答说：“你多次对他们表现得很勇敢。”

‘Sir, I have been,’ with a faint smile. ‘I told you what would come of it when I ceased to be so, and see here! Look at us—look at us!’ He drew the hand Miss Flite held through her arm and brought her something nearer to him.
“先生，我去过。”淡淡一笑。 ‘我告诉过你当我不再这样时会发生什么，看这里！看看我们——看看我们！”他拉过弗利特小姐挽着手臂的手，把一个东西拉近了一点。

‘This ends it. Of all my old associations, of all my old pursuits and hopes, of all the living and the dead world, this one poor soul alone comes natural to me, and I am fit for. There is a tie of many suffering years between us two, and it is the only tie I ever had on earth that Chancery has not broken.’
‘这就结束了。在我所有旧的交往中，在我所有旧的追求和希望中，在所有生者和死者的世界中，只有这个可怜的灵魂对我来说是自然的，我适合。我们两个之间有着多年痛苦的纽带，这是我在地球上唯一没有被大法官打破的纽带。

‘Accept my blessing, Gridley,’ said Miss Flite in tears. ‘Accept my blessing!’
“接受我的祝福，格里德利，”弗利特小姐泪流满面地说。 “接受我的祝福！”

‘I thought, boastfully, that they never could break my heart, Mr. Jarndyce. I was resolved that they should not. I did believe that I could, and would, charge them with being the mockery they were until I died of some bodily disorder. But I am worn out. How long I have been wearing out, I don’t know; I seemed to break down in an hour. I hope they may never come to hear of it. I hope everybody here will lead them to believe that I died defying them, consistently and perseveringly, as I did through so many years.’
“我自豪地认为，他们永远不会让我心碎，贾迪斯先生。我决定他们不应该这样做。我确实相信我可以而且会指责他们是对他们的嘲笑，直到我因某种身体疾病而去世。但我已经筋疲力尽了。我不知道我已经疲惫了多久；一个小时后我似乎崩溃了。我希望他们永远不会听到这个消息。我希望这里的每个人都能让他们相信，我是在反抗他们的过程中死去的，始终如一、坚持不懈，就像我多年来所做的那样。”

Here Mr. Bucket, who was sitting in a corner by the door, goodnaturedly offered such consolation as he could administer.
坐在门边角落里的巴克特先生和蔼地提供了他力所能及的安慰。

‘Come, come!’ he said from his corner. ‘Don’t go on in that way, Mr. Gridley. You are only a little low. We are all of us a little low sometimes. I am. Hold up, hold up! You’ll lose your temper with the whole round of ‘em, again and again; and I shall take you on a score of warrants yet, if I have luck.’
“来吧，来吧！”他在角落里说道。 “别再这样下去了，格里德利先生。你只是有点低。我们所有人有时都有点低落。我是。坚持住，坚持住！你会一次又一次地对他们发脾气；如果运气好的话，我还会带你去拿二十份搜查令。”

He only shook his head.
他只是摇了摇头。

‘Don’t shake your head,’ said Mr. Bucket. ‘Nod it; that’s what I want to see you do. Why, Lord bless your soul, what times we have had together! Haven’t I seen you in the Fleet over and over again for contempt? Haven’t I come into court, twenty afternoons for no other purpose than to see you pin the Chancellor like a bull-dog? Don’t you remember when you first began to threaten the lawyers, and the peace was sworn against you two or three times a week? Ask the little old lady there; she has been always present. Hold up, Mr. Gridley, hold up, sir!’
“别摇头，”巴克特先生说。 ‘点头吧；这就是我希望看到你做的。哎呀，上帝保佑你的灵魂，我们在一起度过了多么美好的时光啊！我不是在舰队里见过你一次又一次的蔑视吗？难道我二十个下午来到法庭不就是为了看你像斗牛犬一样钉住大法官吗？你不记得你第一次开始威胁律师的时候，每周都会有两三次向你宣誓和解吗？问问那里的小老太太；她一直都在。等一下，格里德利先生，等一下，先生！”

‘What are you going to do about him?’ asked George in a low voice.
“你打算对他做什么？”乔治低声问道。

‘I don’t know yet,’ said Bucket in the same tone. Then resuming his encouragement, he pursued aloud: ‘Worn out, Mr. Gridley? After dodging me for all these weeks and forcing me to climb the roof here like a tom cat and to come to see you as a doctor? That ain’t like being worn out. I should think not! Now I tell you what you want. You want excitement, you know, to keep YOU up; that’s what YOU want. You’re used to it, and you can’t do without it. I couldn’t myself. Very well, then; here’s this warrant got by Mr. Tulkinghorn of Lincoln’s Inn Fields, and backed into half-a-dozen counties since. What do you say to coming along with me, upon this warrant, and having a good angry argument before the magistrates? It’ll do you good; it’ll freshen you up and get you into training for another turn at the Chancellor. Give in? Why, I am surprised to hear a man of your energy talk of giving in. You mustn’t do that. You’re half the fun of the fair in the Court of Chancery. George, you lend Mr. Gridley a hand, and let’s see now whether he won’t be better up than down.’
“我还不知道，”巴克特用同样的语气说道。然后他继续鼓励，大声追问：“累了吗，格里德利先生？”躲了我好几个星期，还逼我像只公猫一样爬上屋顶，来给你看医生？这不像是疲惫不堪。我应该认为不会！现在我告诉你你想要什么。你知道，你需要兴奋来让你保持活力；那就是你想要的。你已经习惯了，而且你离不开它。我自己却做不到。那好吧;这是林肯因菲尔兹的图尔金霍恩先生获得的逮捕令，此后又支持了六个县。你觉得根据这个逮捕令跟我一起去，在地方法官面前进行一次激烈的愤怒争论怎么样？这对你有好处；它会让你精神焕发，并让你接受培训，为再次担任校长做好准备。让步？为什么，我很惊讶听到像你这样精力充沛的人谈论屈服。你不应该这样做。您是衡平法院展会的一半乐趣。乔治，你帮格里德利先生一把，现在让我们看看他的处境是否会比处境更好。”

‘He is very weak,’ said the trooper in a low voice.
“他很虚弱。”士兵低声说道。

‘Is he?’ returned Bucket anxiously. ‘I only want to rouse him. I don’t like to see an old acquaintance giving in like this. It would cheer him up more than anything if I could make him a little waxy with me. He’s welcome to drop into me, right and left, if he likes. I shall never take advantage of it.’
“是吗？”巴克特焦急地回答。 ‘我只是想唤醒他。我不喜欢看到一个老熟人就这样屈服。如果我能让他和我在一起变得有点蜡，这比什么都让他高兴。如果他愿意的话，欢迎他从左到右地撞到我身上。我永远不会利用它。

The roof rang with a scream from Miss Flite, which still rings in my ears.
屋顶上传来弗利特小姐的尖叫声，至今仍回响在我耳边。

‘Oh, no, Gridley!’ she cried as he fell heavily and calmly back from before her. ‘Not without my blessing. After so many years!’
“哦，不，格里德利！”当他从她面前重重而平静地倒下时，她喊道。 ‘没有我的祝福就不行。这么多年过去了！’

The sun was down, the light had gradually stolen from the roof, and the shadow had crept upward. But to me the shadow of that pair, one living and one dead, fell heavier on Richard’s departure than the darkness of the darkest night. And through Richard’s farewell words I heard it echoed: ‘Of all my old associations, of all my old pursuits and hopes, of all the living and the dead world, this one poor soul alone comes natural to me, and I am fit for. There is a tie of many suffering years between us two, and it is the only tie I ever had on earth that Chancery has not broken!’
太阳落山了，屋顶上的光渐渐偷走了，影子也向上爬了。但对我来说，理查德离开后，那一对生者和死者的阴影比最黑暗的夜晚还要沉重。在理查德的告别词中，我听到它的回声：“在我所有的旧联想中，在我所有旧的追求和希望中，在所有生与死的世界中，只有这个可怜的灵魂对我来说是自然的，我适合。”我们两个之间有着多年痛苦的纽带，这是我在地球上唯一没有被大法官打破的纽带！

CHAPTER XXV
第二十五章


Mrs. Snagsby Sees It All
斯纳斯比夫人目睹了这一切

There is disquietude in Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street. Black suspicion hides in that peaceful region. The mass of Cook’s Courtiers are in their usual state of mind, no better and no worse; but Mr. Snagsby is changed, and his little woman knows it.
库西托街的库克法院里一片不安。黑色的怀疑隐藏在那个和平的地区。库克的朝臣们都处于平常的心态，没有好坏之分。但斯纳斯比先生变了，他的小女人知道这一点。

For Tom-all-Alone’s and Lincoln’s Inn Fields persist in harnessing themselves, a pair of ungovernable coursers, to the chariot of Mr. Snagsby’s imagination; and Mr. Bucket drives; and the passengers are Jo and Mr. Tulkinghorn; and the complete equipage whirls though the law-stationery business at wild speed all round the clock. Even in the little front kitchen where the family meals are taken, it rattles away at a smoking pace from the dinner-table, when Mr. Snagsby pauses in carving the first slice of the leg of mutton baked with potatoes and stares at the kitchen wall.
因为《汤姆孤身》和《林肯客栈》菲尔兹坚持把自己这对难以驾驭的骏马驾驭在斯纳斯比先生想象的战车上。和桶先生开车；乘客是乔和图金霍恩先生；整套设备全天候地以疯狂的速度在法律文具行业中运转。即使是在一家人吃饭的小前厨房里，当斯纳格斯比先生停下来切第一片烤土豆羊腿并盯着厨房墙壁时，餐桌上的声音也以冒着烟的速度嘎嘎作响。 。

Mr. Snagsby cannot make out what it is that he has had to do with. Something is wrong somewhere, but what something, what may come of it, to whom, when, and from which unthought of and unheard of quarter is the puzzle of his life. His remote impressions of the robes and coronets, the stars and garters, that sparkle through the surface-dust of Mr. Tulkinghorn’s chambers; his veneration for the mysteries presided over by that best and closest of his customers, whom all the Inns of Court, all Chancery Lane, and all the legal neighbourhood agree to hold in awe; his remembrance of Detective Mr. Bucket with his forefinger and his confidential manner, impossible to be evaded or declined, persuade him that he is a party to some dangerous secret without knowing what it is. And it is the fearful peculiarity of this condition that, at any hour of his daily life, at any opening of the shop-door, at any pull of the bell, at any entrance of a messenger, or any delivery of a letter, the secret may take air and fire, explode, and blow up—Mr. Bucket only knows whom.
斯纳斯比先生不明白这与他有什么关系。某处出了问题，但到底是什么问题，可能会发生什么，对谁、何时、从何而来，是他一生的困惑。他对长袍和冠冕、星星和吊袜带的遥远印象，在塔尔金霍恩先生房间的表面灰尘中闪闪发光；他对最优秀、最亲密的顾客所主持的神秘事物的崇敬，所有法院、大法官巷和所有法律界都一致对他们感到敬畏；他用食指回忆起警探巴克特先生，以及他无法回避或拒绝的保密态度，使他相信他是某个危险秘密的参与者，但他不知道那是什么。这种情况的可怕之处在于，在他日常生活的任何时刻，在商店门打开的任何时候，在门铃被拉动的任何时候，在信使的任何进入的时候，或者在任何一封信的交付时，秘密可能会吸收空气和火焰，爆炸并炸毁——先生。只有桶知道是谁。

For which reason, whenever a man unknown comes into the shop (as many men unknown do) and says, ‘Is Mr. Snagsby in?’ or words to that innocent effect, Mr. Snagsby’s heart knocks hard at his guilty breast. He undergoes so much from such inquiries that when they are made by boys he revenges himself by flipping at their ears over the counter and asking the young dogs what they mean by it and why they can’t speak out at once? More impracticable men and boys persist in walking into Mr. Snagsby’s sleep and terrifying him with unaccountable questions, so that often when the cock at the little dairy in Cursitor Street breaks out in his usual absurd way about the morning, Mr. Snagsby finds himself in a crisis of nightmare, with his little woman shaking him and saying ‘What’s the matter with the man!’
因此，每当一个不知名的人走进店里（正如许多不知名的人所做的那样）并问道：“斯纳格斯比先生在吗？”或者说一些无辜的话语时，斯纳格斯比先生的心就会剧烈地撞击着他内疚的胸膛。他从这些询问中经历了太多，以至于当男孩们向他询问时，他通过在柜台上翻动他们的耳朵来报复自己，并询问年轻的狗这是什么意思以及为什么他们不能立即说出来？更多不切实际的男人和男孩坚持走进斯纳格斯比先生的睡梦中，用一些无法解释的问题来吓唬他，因此，当库西特街的小奶牛场的公鸡在早晨以他惯常的荒谬方式爆发时，斯纳格斯比先生发现自己陷入了困境。一场噩梦般的危机，他的小女人摇晃着他，说“这个男人怎么了！”

The little woman herself is not the least item in his difficulty. To know that he is always keeping a secret from her, that he has under all circumstances to conceal and hold fast a tender double tooth, which her sharpness is ever ready to twist out of his head, gives Mr. Snagsby, in her dentistical presence, much of the air of a dog who has a reservation from his master and will look anywhere rather than meet his eye.
这个小女人本身并不是他遇到的困难中最重要的一个。斯纳斯比先生当着她的牙医在场，知道他总是对她保守秘密，在任何情况下他都必须隐藏并紧紧抓住一颗柔软的双牙，她的锐利随时准备将这颗牙齿从他的头上拧下来。 ，很像一只狗，它对主人有保留，会看向任何地方，而不是与主人目光相对。

These various signs and tokens, marked by the little woman, are not lost upon her. They impel her to say, ‘Snagsby has something on his mind!’ And thus suspicion gets into Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street. From suspicion to jealousy, Mrs. Snagsby finds the road as natural and short as from Cook’s Court to Chancery Lane. And thus jealousy gets into Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street. Once there (and it was always lurking thereabout), it is very active and nimble in Mrs. Snagsby’s breast, prompting her to nocturnal examinations of Mr. Snagsby’s pockets; to secret perusals of Mr. Snagsby’s letters; to private researches in the day book and ledger, till, cash-box, and iron safe; to watchings at windows, listenings behind doors, and a general putting of this and that together by the wrong end.
小女人所标记的这些不同的标志和象征，她并没有忘记。他们迫使她说：“斯纳格斯比有心事！”因此怀疑进入了库西托街的库克法院。从怀疑到嫉妒，斯纳斯比夫人发现这条路就像从库克法院到大法官巷一样自然而短。因此嫉妒就进入了库西特街的库克宫。一旦到达那里（它总是潜伏在那里），它就会在斯纳格斯比夫人的乳房中非常活跃和灵活，促使她在夜间检查斯纳格斯比先生的口袋；秘密审阅斯纳斯比先生的信件；对日记本和分类帐、收银台、钱箱和铁保险箱进行私人研究；窗外看，门后听，以及以错误的方式把这个和那个放在一起。

Mrs. Snagsby is so perpetually on the alert that the house becomes ghostly with creaking boards and rustling garments. The ‘prentices think somebody may have been murdered there in bygone times. Guster holds certain loose atoms of an idea (picked up at Tooting, where they were found floating among the orphans) that there is buried money underneath the cellar, guarded by an old man with a white beard, who cannot get out for seven thousand years because he said the Lord’s Prayer backwards.
斯纳斯比夫人时刻保持警惕，房子里变得阴森森的，木板嘎吱作响，衣服沙沙作响。 “学徒们认为过去可能有人被谋杀过。”古斯特持有某种想法的松散原子（在图廷发现的，在那里人们发现它们漂浮在孤儿中间），地窖下面埋着钱，由一位白胡子老人看守，他七千年都无法出去因为他把主祷文倒着念了。

‘Who was Nimrod?’ Mrs. Snagsby repeatedly inquires of herself. ‘Who was that lady—that creature? And who is that boy?’ Now, Nimrod being as dead as the mighty hunter whose name Mrs. Snagsby has appropriated, and the lady being unproducible, she directs her mental eye, for the present, with redoubled vigilance to the boy. ‘And who,’ quoth Mrs. Snagsby for the thousand and first time, ‘is that boy? Who is that—!’ And there Mrs. Snagsby is seized with an inspiration.
“宁罗德是谁？”斯纳斯比夫人反复问自己。 ‘那个女士——那个生物是谁？那个男孩是谁？现在，尼姆罗德已经死了，就像斯纳斯比夫人侵占了他的名字的强大猎人一样，而那位女士又无法生产，她目前将她的精神之眼引向那个男孩，加倍警惕。 “那么，”斯纳斯比夫人第一次问道，“那个男孩是谁？”那是谁——！”斯纳斯比夫人突然灵机一动。

He has no respect for Mr. Chadband. No, to be sure, and he wouldn’t have, of course. Naturally he wouldn’t, under those contagious circumstances. He was invited and appointed by Mr. Chadband—why, Mrs. Snagsby heard it herself with her own ears!—to come back, and be told where he was to go, to be addressed by Mr. Chadband; and he never came! Why did he never come? Because he was told not to come. Who told him not to come? Who? Ha, ha! Mrs. Snagsby sees it all.
他不尊重查德班德先生。不，可以肯定的是，他当然不会这么做。在这种具有传染性的情况下，他自然不会。查德班德先生邀请并任命他回来——为什么，斯纳斯比夫人亲耳所闻！——回来，并被告知他要去哪里，由查德班德先生接见；但他从来没有来过！他为什么不来？因为他被告知不要来。谁叫他不要来的？ WHO？哈哈！斯纳斯比夫人看到了这一切。

But happily (and Mrs. Snagsby tightly shakes her head and tightly smiles) that boy was met by Mr. Chadband yesterday in the streets; and that boy, as affording a subject which Mr. Chadband desires to improve for the spiritual delight of a select congregation, was seized by Mr. Chadband and threatened with being delivered over to the police unless he showed the reverend gentleman where he lived and unless he entered into, and fulfilled, an undertaking to appear in Cook’s Court to-morrow night, ‘‘to—mor—row—night,’ Mrs. Snagsby repeats for mere emphasis with another tight smile and another tight shake of her head; and to-morrow night that boy will be here, and to-morrow night Mrs. Snagsby will have her eye upon him and upon some one else; and oh, you may walk a long while in your secret ways (says Mrs. Snagsby with haughtiness and scorn), but you can’t blind ME!
但令人高兴的是（斯纳斯比夫人紧紧地摇着头，紧紧地微笑着）查德班德先生昨天在街上遇见了那个男孩；那个男孩，因为提供了查德班德先生希望改进的主题，以便为选定的会众的精神愉悦而改进，所以被查德班德先生抓住，并威胁说，除非他向这位可敬的绅士展示他住在哪里，否则就会被交给警察。他承诺并履行了明天晚上在库克法庭出庭的承诺，“明天——明天——晚上——”斯纳斯比夫人重复了一遍，只是为了强调，她又紧绷的微笑，又紧紧地摇了摇头。明天晚上那个男孩就会在这里，明天晚上斯纳斯比太太就会盯着他和其他人。哦，你可能会在你的秘密道路上走很长一段时间（斯纳斯比夫人傲慢而轻蔑地说道），但你不能蒙蔽我！

Mrs. Snagsby sounds no timbrel in anybody’s ears, but holds her purpose quietly, and keeps her counsel. To-morrow comes, the savoury preparations for the Oil Trade come, the evening comes. Comes Mr. Snagsby in his black coat; come the Chadbands; come (when the gorging vessel is replete) the ‘prentices and Guster, to be edified; comes at last, with his slouching head, and his shuflle backward, and his shuffle forward, and his shuffle to the right, and his shuffle to the left, and his bit of fur cap in his muddy hand, which he picks as if it were some mangy bird he had caught and was plucking before eating raw, Jo, the very, very tough subject Mr. Chadband is to improve.
斯纳斯比夫人没有在任何人耳边发出任何声音，但默默地坚持着她的目的，并坚持她的建议。明天到来，石油贸易的美味准备工作到来，夜晚来临。穿着黑色外套的斯纳斯比先生来了；乍得邦来了； （当狼吞虎咽的容器装满时）“学徒和古斯特”来接受启发；终于来了，他低垂着头，拖着脚步向后，拖着脚步向前，拖着脚步向右，拖着脚步向左，沾满泥的手上拿着一顶毛皮帽，他把它捡起来，好像它是它的样子。是他捉到的一只癞皮鸟，在生吃之前正在拔毛，乔，查德班德先生要改进的非常非常困难的科目。

Mrs. Snagsby screws a watchful glance on Jo as he is brought into the little drawing-room by Guster. He looks at Mr. Snagsby the moment he comes in. Aha! Why does he look at Mr. Snagsby? Mr. Snagsby looks at him. Why should he do that, but that Mrs. Snagsby sees it all? Why else should that look pass between them, why else should Mr. Snagsby be confused and cough a signal cough behind his hand? It is as clear as crystal that Mr. Snagsby is that boy’s father.
当乔被古斯特带进小客厅时，斯纳斯比夫人警惕地看了一眼乔。他一进来就看着斯纳斯比先生。啊哈！他为什么看着斯纳斯比先生？斯纳斯比先生看着他。他为什么要这么做，但斯纳斯比夫人看到了这一切？不然为什么他们之间会闪过那样的眼神，不然为什么斯纳斯比先生会感到困惑，并在手后示意性地咳了一声？很明显，斯纳斯比先生就是那个男孩的父亲。

‘’Peace, my friends,’ says Chadband, rising and wiping the oily exudations from his reverend visage. ‘Peace be with us! My friends, why with us? Because,’ with his fat smile, ‘it cannot be against us, because it must be for us; because it is not hardening, because it is softening; because it does not make war like the hawk, but comes home unto us like the dove. Therefore, my friends, peace be with us! My human boy, come forward!’
“请安静，我的朋友们，”查德班德说着，站了起来，擦掉了他那令人尊敬的脸上的油腻渗出物。 ‘愿平安与我们同在！我的朋友们，为什么和我们在一起？因为，”他脸上带着灿烂的笑容，“它不能反对我们，因为它一定是为了我们；因为它不是硬化，因为它是软化；因为它不像鹰那样发动战争，而是像鸽子一样回到我们身边。因此，我的朋友们，愿我们平安！我的人类男孩，挺身而出！

Stretching forth his flabby paw, Mr. Chadband lays the same on Jo’s arm and considers where to station him. Jo, very doubtful of his reverend friend’s intentions and not at all clear but that something practical and painful is going to be done to him, mutters, ‘You let me alone. I never said nothink to you. You let me alone.’
查德班德先生伸出松软的爪子，把它放在乔的手臂上，考虑把他放在哪里。乔对他可敬的朋友的意图非常怀疑，而且一点也不明白，但一些实际而痛苦的事情将会发生在他身上，他嘀咕道：“你让我一个人呆着。”我从来没有对你说过“nothink”。你让我一个人呆着。

‘No, my young friend,’ says Chadband smoothly, ‘I will not let you alone. And why? Because I am a harvest-labourer, because I am a toiler and a moiler, because you are delivered over unto me and are become as a precious instrument in my hands. My friends, may I so employ this instrument as to use it to your advantage, to your profit, to your gain, to your welfare, to your enrichment! My young friend, sit upon this stool.’
“不，我年轻的朋友，”查德班平静地说，“我不会让你孤单。”为什么？因为我是一个收割工人，因为我是一个辛劳者和劳作者，因为你被交付给我，成为我手中的宝贵工具。我的朋友们，愿我如此使用这个工具，以便利用它为您带来好处、为您带来利益、为您带来好处、为您带来福祉、为您致富！我的年轻朋友，请坐在这张凳子上。

Jo, apparently possessed by an impression that the reverend gentleman wants to cut his hair, shields his head with both arms and is got into the required position with great difficulty and every possible manifestation of reluctance.
乔显然以为这位尊贵的绅士想要剪掉他的头发，他用双臂护住他的头，费了很大的劲才达到了要求的位置，而且表现出了各种可能的不情愿。

When he is at last adjusted like a lay-figure, Mr. Chadband, retiring behind the table, holds up his bear’s-paw and says, ‘My friends!’ This is the signal for a general settlement of the audience. The ‘prentices giggle internally and nudge each other. Guster falls into a staring and vacant state, compounded of a stunned admiration of Mr. Chadband and pity for the friendless outcast whose condition touches her nearly. Mrs. Snagsby silently lays trains of gunpowder. Mrs. Chadband composes herself grimly by the fire and warms her knees, finding that sensation favourable to the reception of eloquence.
当他最终像外行人一样调整时，查德班德先生退到桌子后面，举起他的熊掌说：“我的朋友们！”这是观众们普遍就座的信号。学徒们在心里咯咯笑，互相推搡。古斯特陷入了一种凝视和茫然的状态，她对查德班德先生的钦佩和对这个没有朋友的被抛弃者的怜悯交织在一起，他的处境几乎触动了她。斯纳格斯比夫人默默地放置一列火药。查德班德夫人在火边让自己冷静下来，暖和膝盖，发现这种感觉有利于接受雄辩。

It happens that Mr. Chadband has a pulpit habit of fixing some member of his congregation with his eye and fatly arguing his points with that particular person, who is understood to be expected to be moved to an occasional grunt, groan, gasp, or other audible expression of inward working, which expression of inward working, being echoed by some elderly lady in the next pew and so communicated like a game of forfeits through a circle of the more fermentable sinners present, serves the purpose of parliamentary cheering and gets Mr. Chadband’s steam up. From mere force of habit, Mr. Chadband in saying ‘My friends!’ has rested his eye on Mr. Snagsby and proceeds to make that ill-starred stationer, already sufficiently confused, the immediate recipient of his discourse.
查德班德先生碰巧有一个讲坛习惯，他会用目光注视他的会众中的某个成员，并与那个特定的人激烈地争论他的观点，据了解，这个人会偶尔发出咕哝、呻吟、喘息或其他声音。内心工作的声音可以听到，这种内心工作的表达得到了旁边座位上的一些老太太的响应，并通过在场的一圈更容易发酵的罪人像一场输牌游戏一样进行交流，达到了议会欢呼的目的，并让先生感到高兴。查德班德气势汹汹。出于习惯的力量，查德班德先生在说“我的朋友们！”时，他的目光落在了斯纳斯比先生身上，然后让那个运气不好、已经很困惑的文具店员成为了他话语的直接接受者。

‘We have here among us, my friends,’ says Chadband, ‘a Gentile and a heathen, a dweller in the tents of Tom-all-Alone’s and a mover-on upon the surface of the earth. We have here among us, my friends,’ and Mr. Chadband, untwisting the point with his dirty thumb-nail, bestows an oily smile on Mr. Snagsby, signifying that he will throw him an argumentative back-fall presently if he be not already down, ‘a brother and a boy. Devoid of parents, devoid of relations, devoid of flocks and herds, devoid of gold and silver and of precious stones. Now, my friends, why do I say he is devoid of these possessions? Why? Why is he?’ Mr. Chadband states the question as if he were propoundlng an entirely new riddle of much ingenuity and merit to Mr. Snagsby and entreating him not to give it up.
“我的朋友们，我们中间有一个外邦人和一个异教徒，一个住在汤姆孤身帐篷里的居民，一个在地球表面上前进的人。查德班德先生用脏兮兮的大拇指指甲解开了这一点，对斯纳斯比先生露出了油腻的微笑，表示如果他不这样做，他很快就会给他一个争论性的倒退。已经下来了，‘一个兄弟和一个男孩。没有父母，没有亲人，没有牛羊，没有金银宝石。现在，我的朋友们，为什么我说他没有这些财产呢？为什么？为什么是他？”查德班德先生提出这个问题，就好像他在向斯纳斯比先生提出一个充满独创性和优点的全新谜语，并恳求他不要放弃。

Mr. Snagsby, greatly perplexed by the mysterious look he received just now from his little woman—at about the period when Mr. Chadband mentioned the word parents—is tempted into modestly remarking, ‘I don’t know, I’m sure, sir.’ On which interruption Mrs. Chadband glares and Mrs. Snagsby says, ‘For shame!’
斯纳斯比先生对他的小女人刚才看到的神秘目光感到非常困惑——大约是在查德班德先生提到“父母”这个词的时候——他忍不住谦虚地说：“我不知道，我确信，查德班德夫人怒视着这句话，斯纳斯比夫人说：“真丢脸！”

‘I hear a voice,’ says Chadband; ‘is it a still small voice, my friends? I fear not, though I fain would hope so—‘
“我听到一个声音，”查德班德说道。 ‘我的朋友们，声音还很小吗？我担心不会，尽管我很希望如此——”

‘Ah—h!’ from Mrs. Snagsby.
“啊——啊！”斯纳斯比夫人说道。

‘Which says, ‘I don’t know.’ Then I will tell you why. I say this brother present here among us is devoid of parents, devoid of relations, devoid of flocks and herds, devoid of gold, of silver, and of precious stones because he is devoid of the light that shines in upon some of us. What is that light? What is it? I ask you, what is that light?’
“这就是说，‘我不知道。’然后我会告诉你原因。”我说我们这里的这位弟兄，没有父母，没有亲人，没有牛羊，没有金银宝石，因为他没有照在我们一些人身上的光。那光是什么？它是什么？我问你，那光是什么？

Mr. Chadband draws back his head and pauses, but Mr. Snagsby is not to be lured on to his destruction again. Mr. Chadband, leaning forward over the table, pierces what he has got to follow directly into Mr. Snagsby with the thumb-nail already mentioned.
查德班德先生向后退了一步，停了下来，但斯纳斯比先生不会再被引诱走向毁灭。查德班德先生在桌子上倾身向前，用前面提到的拇指指甲将他必须遵循的东西直接刺入斯纳格斯比先生的体内。

‘It is,’ says Chadband, ‘the ray of rays, the sun of suns, the moon of moons, the star of stars. It is the light of Terewth.’
查德班德说：“它是光芒、太阳中的太阳、月亮中的月亮、星星中的星星。”这是特鲁斯之光。

Mr. Chadband draws himself up again and looks triumphantly at Mr. Snagsby as if he would be glad to know how he feels after that.
查德班德先生再次挺直身子，得意地看着斯纳斯比先生，仿佛他很高兴知道他之后的感受。

‘Of Terewth,’ says Mr. Chadband, hitting him again. ‘Say not to me that it is NOT the lamp of lamps. I say to you it is. I say to you, a million of times over, it is. It is! I say to you that I will proclaim it to you, whether you like it or not; nay, that the less you like it, the more I will proclaim it to you. With a speaking-trumpet! I say to you that if you rear yourself against it, you shall fall, you shall be bruised, you shall be battered, you shall be flawed, you shall be smashed.’
“特鲁斯的，”查德班德先生说，又打了他一下。 ‘别对我说这不是灯中之灯。我对你说是的。我对你说一百万次，确实如此。这是！我对你们说，无论你们喜欢与否，我都会向你们宣布这一点；不仅如此，你越不喜欢它，我就越向你宣告它。带着喇叭！我告诉你，如果你反抗它，你就会跌倒，你就会被打伤，你就会被殴打，你就会有缺陷，你就会被粉碎。

The present effect of this flight of oratory—much admired for its general power by Mr. Chadband’s followers—being not only to make Mr. Chadband unpleasantly warm, but to represent the innocent Mr. Snagsby in the light of a determined enemy to virtue, with a forehead of brass and a heart of adamant, that unfortunate tradesman becomes yet more disconcerted and is in a very advanced state of low spirits and false position when Mr. Chadband accidentally finishes him.
这种演讲的当前效果——查德班德先生的追随者因其普遍力量而备受推崇——不仅使查德班德先生变得令人不愉快的热情，而且从一个坚定的美德敌人的角度来代表无辜的斯纳格斯比先生，这位不幸的商人有着黄铜的额头和坚定的心，当查德班德先生意外地结束了他时，他变得更加不知所措，情绪低落，立场错误。

‘My friends,’ he resumes after dabbing his fat head for some time— and it smokes to such an extent that he seems to light his pockethandkerchief at it, which smokes, too, after every dab—‘to pursue the subject we are endeavouring with our lowly gifts to improve, let us in a spirit of love inquire what is that Terewth to which I have alluded. For, my young friends,’ suddenly addressing the ‘prentices and Guster, to their consternation, ‘if I am told by the doctor that calomel or castor-oil is good for me, I may naturally ask what is calomel, and what is castor-oil. I may wish to be informed of that before I dose myself with either or with both. Now, my young friends, what is this Terewth then? Firstly (in a spirit of love), what is the common sort of Terewth—the working clothes—the every-day wear, my young friends? Is it deception?’
“我的朋友们，”他在摸了摸他那胖胖的脑袋一段时间后继续说道——脑袋冒烟的程度如此之大，他似乎点燃了他的口袋手帕，每次擦拭后，口袋手帕也在冒烟——“去追求我们正在努力的主题让我们怀着爱的精神询问我所提到的特鲁斯是什么。因为，我的年轻朋友们，”突然对学徒们和古斯特说道，令他们惊愕的是，“如果医生告诉我甘汞或蓖麻油对我有好处，我自然会问什么是甘汞，什么是蓖麻油-油。在我选择其中一个或两者之前，我可能希望被告知这一点。现在，我的年轻朋友们，这个Terewth 是什么？首先（本着爱的精神），我的年轻朋友们，常见的Terewth是什么——工作服——日常穿着？这是欺骗吗？

‘Ah—h!’ from Mrs. Snagsby.
“啊——啊！”斯纳斯比夫人说道。

‘Is it suppression?’
“这是镇压吗？”

A shiver in the negative from Mrs. Snagsby.
斯纳格斯比夫人的否定让我不寒而栗。

‘Is it reservation?’
“是预订吗？”

A shake of the head from Mrs. Snagsby—very long and very tight.
斯纳斯比夫人摇了摇头——很长很紧。

‘No, my friends, it is neither of these. Neither of these names belongs to it. When this young heathen now among us—who is now, my friends, asleep, the seal of indifference and perdition being set upon his eyelids; but do not wake him, for it is right that I should have to wrestle, and to combat and to struggle, and to conquer, for his sake—when this young hardened heathen told us a story of a cock, and of a bull, and of a lady, and of a sovereign, was THAT the Terewth? No. Or if it was partly, was it wholly and entirely? No, my friends, no!’
‘不，我的朋友们，这两者都不是。这两个名字都不属于它。当这个年轻的异教徒现在在我们中间时——我的朋友们，他现在睡着了，冷漠和毁灭的印记贴在他的眼皮上；但不要叫醒他，因为为了他，我必须摔跤、战斗、奋斗、征服，这是正确的——当这个年轻的、冷酷的异教徒给我们讲了一个公鸡和公牛的故事时，那是一位女士和一位君主的特鲁斯吗？不。或者，如果是部分，那么是全部还是全部？不，我的朋友们，不！

If Mr. Snagsby could withstand his little woman’s look as it enters at his eyes, the windows of his soul, and searches the whole tenement, he were other than the man he is. He cowers and droops.
如果斯纳斯比先生能够承受他的小女人的目光进入他的眼睛，他的灵魂之窗，并搜索整个公寓，那么他就不是他这个人了。他畏缩并垂下身子。

‘Or, my juvenile friends,’ says Chadband, descending to the level of their comprehension with a very obtrusive demonstration in his greasily meek smile of coming a long way downstairs for the purpose, ‘if the master of this house was to go forth into the city and there see an eel, and was to come back, and was to call unto him the mistress of this house, and was to say, ‘Sarah, rejoice with me, for I have seen an elephant!’ would THAT be Terewth?’
“或者，我的少年朋友们，”查德班德说，他带着油腻温顺的微笑，带着非常唐突的表情，降到了他们的理解水平，为了这个目的，走了很长一段路，“如果这栋房子的主人要出去的话，”城里看到一只鳗鱼，他要回来，要叫这房子的女主人来，说：“莎拉，和我一起高兴吧，因为我看到了一头大象！”那是特鲁斯吗？ ？

Mrs. Snagsby in tears.
斯纳斯比夫人泪流满面。

‘Or put it, my juvenile friends, that he saw an elephant, and returning said ‘Lo, the city is barren, I have seen but an eel,’ would THAT be Terewth?’
“或者说，我的少年朋友们，他看到了一头大象，回来后说：‘瞧，这座城市很贫瘠，我只看到了一条鳗鱼，’那会是特鲁斯吗？”

Mrs. Snagsby sobbing loudly.
斯纳斯比夫人大声抽泣。

‘Or put it, my juvenile friends,’ said Chadband, stimulated by the sound, ‘that the unnatural parents of this slumbering heathen—for parents he had, my juvenile friends, beyond a doubt—after casting him forth to the wolves and the vultures, and the wild dogs and the young gazelles, and the serpents, went back to their dwellings and had their pipes, and their pots, and their flutings and their dancings, and their malt liquors, and their butcher’s meat and poultry, would THAT be Terewth?’
“或者说，我的少年朋友们，”查德班德被声音刺激着说道，“这个沉睡的异教徒的非自然父母——毫无疑问，我的少年朋友们，他的父母——在把他扔到狼群和秃鹰、野狗、小羚羊、蛇，回到自己的住所，拿走他们的笛子、他们的罐子、他们的笛子、他们的舞蹈、他们的麦芽酒、他们屠夫的肉和家禽，是特鲁斯吗？

Mrs. Snagsby replies by delivering herself a prey to spasms, not an unresisting prey, but a crying and a tearing one, so that Cook’s Court re-echoes with her shrieks. Finally, becoming cataleptic, she has to be carried up the narrow staircase like a grand piano. After unspeakable suffering, productive of the utmost consternation, she is pronounced, by expresses from the bedroom, free from pain, though much exhausted, in which state of affairs Mr. Snagsby, trampled and crushed in the piano-forte removal, and extremely timid and feeble, ventures to come out from behind the door in the drawing-room.
斯纳斯比夫人的回答是，把自己变成了一个痉挛的猎物，不是一个无法抵抗的猎物，而是一个哭泣和撕裂的猎物，以至于库克的法庭上回响着她的尖叫声。最后，她陷入了僵直状态，不得不像一架三角钢琴一样被抬着走上狭窄的楼梯。在经历了难以言喻的痛苦之后，她感到极度惊愕，从卧室里出来后，她被宣布，尽管已经精疲力竭，但没有任何痛苦，而斯纳格斯比先生在钢琴演奏中被践踏和压碎，而且非常胆怯。身体虚弱，大着胆子从客厅的门后走出来。

All this time Jo has been standing on the spot where he woke up, ever picking his cap and putting bits of fur in his mouth. He spits them out with a remorseful air, for he feels that it is in his nature to be an unimprovable reprobate and that it’s no good HIS trying to keep awake, for HE won’t never know nothink. Though it may be, Jo, that there is a history so interesting and affecting even to minds as near the brutes as thine, recording deeds done on this earth for common men, that if the Chadbands, removing their own persons from the light, would but show it thee in simple reverence, would but leave it unimproved, would but regard it as being eloquent enough without their modest aid—it might hold thee awake, and thou might learn from it yet!
乔一直站在他醒来的地方，摘下帽子，把一些毛皮放进嘴里。他带着悔恨的神情把这些话吐了出来，因为他觉得自己的天性就是一个不可改进的恶棍，他试图保持清醒是没有用的，因为他永远不会知道任何想法。乔，尽管有这样一段历史，它记录着普通人在地球上所做的事，甚至对那些像你一样近乎野蛮的人来说也是如此有趣和感人，如果查德班德家族把自己的人从光明中抹去，但以简单的敬意向你展示它，只会让它不加改进，只会在没有他们适度帮助的情况下认为它已经足够雄辩了——它可能会让你保持清醒，你还可以从中学习！

Jo never heard of any such book. Its compilers and the Reverend Chadband are all one to him, except that he knows the Reverend Chadband and would rather run away from him for an hour than hear him talk for five minutes. ‘It an’t no good my waiting here no longer,’ thinks Jo. ‘Mr. Snagsby an’t a-going to say nothink to me to-night.’ And downstairs he shuffles.
乔从未听说过任何这样的书。它的编译者和查德班德牧师对他来说都是一体的，只是他认识查德班德牧师，并且宁愿逃离他一个小时也不愿听他讲话五分钟。 “我不再在这里等待是没有用的，”乔想。 '先生。斯纳斯比今晚不会对我说“别想”。”然后他拖着脚步下了楼。

But downstairs is the charitable Guster, holding by the handrail of the kitchen stairs and warding off a fit, as yet doubtfully, the same having been induced by Mrs. Snagsby’s screaming. She has her own supper of bread and cheese to hand to Jo, with whom she ventures to interchange a word or so for the first time.
但楼下是仁慈的古斯特，他抓住厨房楼梯的扶手，避免痉挛，但目前还不确定，同样是由斯纳斯比太太的尖叫引起的。她准备了自己的面包和奶酪晚餐交给乔，她第一次冒险与乔交换了一个词。

‘Here’s something to eat, poor boy,’ says Guster.
“这是吃的东西，可怜的孩子，”古斯特说。

‘Thank’ee, mum,’ says Jo.
“谢谢，妈妈，”乔说。

‘Are you hungry?’
'你饿了吗？'

‘Jist!’ says Jo.
“就是这样！”乔说。

‘What’s gone of your father and your mother, eh?’
“你的父亲和母亲怎么了，嗯？”

Jo stops in the middle of a bite and looks petrified. For this orphan charge of the Christian saint whose shrine was at Tooting has patted him on the shoulder, and it is the first time in his life that any decent hand has been so laid upon him.
乔吃到一半就停了下来，看上去吓呆了。基督教圣人的神殿位于图廷，对这个孤儿的照顾拍了拍他的肩膀，这是他一生中第一次有像样的手如此按在他身上。

‘I never know’d nothink about ‘em,’ says Jo.
“我从来不知道会不会想到它们，”乔说。

‘No more didn’t I of mine,’ cries Guster. She is repressing symptoms favourable to the fit when she seems to take alarm at something and vanishes down the stairs.
“我不再是我的了，”古斯特喊道。当她似乎对某件事感到惊慌并消失在楼梯下时，她正在抑制有利于痉挛的症状。

‘Jo,’ whispers the law-stationer softly as the boy lingers on the step.
“乔，”当男孩在台阶上徘徊时，法律文员轻声说道。

‘Here I am, Mr. Snagsby!’
“我在这里，斯纳斯比先生！”

‘I didn’t know you were gone—there’s another half-crown, Jo. It was quite right of you to say nothing about the lady the other night when we were out together. It would breed trouble. You can’t be too quiet, Jo.’
“我不知道你走了——乔，还有半克朗。”那天晚上我们一起出去的时候，你对那位女士只字不提，这是非常正确的。这会滋生麻烦。你不能太安静，乔。”

‘I am fly, master!’
“我是苍蝇，主人！”

And so, good night.
那么，晚安。

A ghostly shade, frilled and night-capped, follows the lawstationer to the room he came from and glides higher up. And henceforth he begins, go where he will, to be attended by another shadow than his own, hardly less constant than his own, hardly less quiet than his own. And into whatsoever atmosphere of secrecy his own shadow may pass, let all concerned in the secrecy beware! For the watchful Mrs. Snagsby is there too—bone of his bone, flesh of his flesh, shadow of his shadow.
一个幽灵般的阴影，带着褶边和睡帽，跟随执法人员来到他来自的房间，然后滑向更高的地方。从那时起，他开始，去他想去的地方，有另一个影子陪伴着他，这个影子几乎不亚于他自己的稳定，不亚于他自己的安静。无论他自己的影子可能进入何种保密气氛，让所有与保密有关的人都要小心！因为警惕的斯纳斯比夫人也在那里——他的骨中的骨，他的肉中的肉，他的影子中的影子。

CHAPTER XXVI
第二十六章


Sharpshooters
神枪手

Wintry morning, looking with dull eyes and sallow face upon the neighbourhood of Leicester Square, finds its inhabitants unwilling to get out of bed. Many of them are not early risers at the brightest of times, being birds of night who roost when the sun is high and are wide awake and keen for prey when the stars shine out. Behind dingy blind and curtain, in upper story and garret, skulking more or less under false names, false hair, false titles, false jewellery, and false histories, a colony of brigands lie in their first sleep. Gentlemen of the green-baize road who could discourse from personal experience of foreign galleys and home treadmills; spies of strong governments that eternally quake with weakness and miserable fear, broken traitors, cowards, bullies, gamesters, shufflers, swindlers, and false witnesses; some not unmarked by the branding-iron beneath their dirty braid; all with more cruelty in them than was in Nero, and more crime than is in Newgate. For howsoever bad the devil can be in fustian or smock-frock (and he can be very bad in both), he is a more designing, callous, and intolerable devil when he sticks a pin in his shirt-front, calls himself a gentleman, backs a card or colour, plays a game or so of billiards, and knows a little about bills and promissory notes than in any other form he wears. And in such form Mr. Bucket shall find him, when he will, still pervading the tributary channels of Leicester Square.
寒冷的早晨，目光呆滞、面色蜡黄的莱斯特广场附近，居民们都不愿起床。它们中的许多人并不是在最明亮的时候起早起的动物，它们是夜鸟，它们在太阳升起时栖息，在星星闪耀时清醒并热衷于捕食。在肮脏的百叶窗和窗帘后面，在上层和阁楼里，一群强盗或多或少地以假名字、假头发、假头衔、假珠宝和假历史潜伏在他们的第一次睡眠中。绿毯路上的绅士们可以从国外厨房和家用跑步机的亲身经历来谈谈；强大政府的间谍，永远因软弱和悲惨的恐惧而颤抖，破碎的叛徒，懦夫，恶霸，赌徒，洗牌者，骗子和假证人；有些人肮脏的辫子下面有烙铁的痕迹；他们比尼禄时期更加残忍，比纽盖特时期更加犯罪。不管魔鬼穿粗布长袍或罩衫有多糟糕（而且他在这两方面都可能很糟糕），当他在衬衫前襟别上一根别针，称自己为绅士时，他就是一个更有计划、冷酷无情、令人难以忍受的魔鬼。 ，支持卡片或颜色，玩台球游戏左右，并且比他所穿的任何其他形式都了解一些钞票和期票。巴克特先生将以这种形式发现他，当他愿意时，仍然遍布莱斯特广场的支流渠道。

But the wintry morning wants him not and wakes him not. It wakes Mr. George of the shooting gallery and his familiar. They arise, roll up and stow away their mattresses. Mr. George, having shaved himself before a looking-glass of minute proportions, then marches out, bare-headed and bare-chested, to the pump in the little yard and anon comes back shining with yellow soap, friction, drifting rain, and exceedingly cold water. As he rubs himself upon a large jack-towel, blowing like a military sort of diver just come up, his hair curling tighter and tighter on his sunburnt temples the more he rubs it so that it looks as if it never could be loosened by any less coercive instrument than an iron rake or a curry-comb—as he rubs, and puffs, and polishes, and blows, turning his head from side to side the more conveniently to excoriate his throat, and standing with his body well bent forward to keep the wet from his martial legs, Phil, on his knees lighting a fire, looks round as if it were enough washing for him to see all that done, and sufficient renovation for one day to take in the superfluous health his master throws off.
但寒冷的早晨不想要他，也不叫醒他。它吵醒了射击场的乔治先生和他的魔宠。他们起身，卷起床垫并收起。乔治先生在镜子前刮了胡子，然后光着头、赤着上身，大步走向小院子里的水泵，不久就回来了，身上泛着黄色的肥皂，摩擦着，飘着雨，非常冷的水。他用一条大毛巾擦着自己，像刚上来的军事潜水员一样吹气，晒伤的太阳穴上的头发卷得越来越紧，越擦越紧，看起来好像任何人都无法松开。比铁耙子或咖喱梳子更具强制性的工具——当他摩擦、吹气、抛光、吹气时，他把头从一边转到另一边，以便更方便地刮擦喉咙，站着时身体向前弯曲为了防止他军事双腿上的湿气，菲尔跪在地上生火，环顾四周，仿佛这对他来说已经足够清洗，可以看到所有的事情都完成了，而且足够一天的翻新，以吸收他的主人抛弃的多余的健康。

When Mr. George is dry, he goes to work to brush his head with two hard brushes at once, to that unmerciful degree that Phil, shouldering his way round the gallery in the act of sweeping it, winks with sympathy. This chafing over, the ornamental part of Mr. George’s toilet is soon performed. He fills his pipe, lights it, and marches up and down smoking, as his custom is, while Phil, raising a powerful odour of hot rolls and coffee, prepares breakfast. He smokes gravely and marches in slow time. Perhaps this morning’s pipe is devoted to the memory of Gridley in his grave.
当乔治先生擦干的时候，他就会去上班，同时用两把硬刷子刷头，其残忍程度让菲尔在扫地时绕着画廊走，同情地眨着眼睛。等这一切都过去了，乔治先生厕所的装饰部分很快就完成了。他装满烟斗，点燃它，按照他的习惯来回抽烟，而菲尔则在准备早餐，散发着热面包卷和咖啡的浓烈气味。他严肃地抽烟，缓慢地行进。也许今天早上的烟斗是为了纪念格里德利在他的坟墓里。

‘And so, Phil,’ says George of the shooting gallery after several turns in silence, ‘you were dreaming of the country last night?’
“那么，菲尔，”射击场的乔治沉默了几圈后说道，“你昨晚梦见了这个国家吗？”

Phil, by the by, said as much in a tone of surprise as he scrambled out of bed.
顺便说一句，菲尔一边从床上爬起来，一边用惊讶的语气说道。

‘Yes, guv’ner.’
“是的，州长。”

‘What was it like?’
“那是什么样子？”

‘I hardly know what it was like, guv’ner,’ said Phil, considering.
“我几乎不知道那是什么感觉，领导，”菲尔思考着说道。

‘How did you know it was the country?’
“你怎么知道那是乡村？”

‘On account of the grass, I think. And the swans upon it,’ says Phil after further consideration.
“我想是因为草。”上面还有天鹅。”菲尔进一步考虑后说道。

‘What were the swans doing on the grass?’
“天鹅在草地上做什么？”

‘They was a-eating of it, I expect,’ says Phil.
“我想他们正在吃掉它，”菲尔说。

The master resumes his march, and the man resumes his preparation of breakfast. It is not necessarily a lengthened preparation, being limited to the setting forth of very simple breakfast requisites for two and the broiling of a rasher of bacon at the fire in the rusty grate; but as Phil has to sidle round a considerable part of the gallery for every object he wants, and never brings two objects at once, it takes time under the circumstances. At length the breakfast is ready. Phil announcing it, Mr. George knocks the ashes out of his pipe on the hob, stands his pipe itself in the chimney corner, and sits down to the meal. When he has helped himself, Phil follows suit, sitting at the extreme end of the little oblong table and taking his plate on his knees. Either in humility, or to hide his blackened hands, or because it is his natural manner of eating.
主人继续行军，男人继续准备早餐。这不一定是一个漫长的准备过程，仅限于为两个人提供非常简单的早餐必需品，并在生锈的炉排中烤一片培根；但由于菲尔必须在画廊的相当大一部分地方转来转去才能得到他想要的每一件物品，而且从来不会同时带来两件物品，因此在这种情况下这需要时间。终于，早餐准备好了。菲尔宣布这一消息后，乔治先生敲掉了炉灶上烟斗中的灰烬，将烟斗放在烟囱角落里，然后坐下来吃饭。当他吃完后，菲尔也跟着做了，坐在长方形小桌子的最末端，把盘子放在膝盖上。要么是出于谦卑，要么是为了隐藏他变黑的手，要么是因为这是他自然的饮食方式。

‘The country,’ says Mr. George, plying his knife and fork; ‘why, I suppose you never clapped your eyes on the country, Phil?’
“乡村，”乔治先生一边说，一边拿着刀叉。 “为什么，我想你从来没有关注过这个国家，菲尔？”

‘I see the marshes once,’ says Phil, contentedly eating his breakfast.
“我见过沼泽一次，”菲尔心满意足地吃着早餐说道。

‘What marshes?’
“什么沼泽？”

‘THE marshes, commander,’ returns Phil.
“是沼泽，指挥官，”菲尔回答道。

‘Where are they?’
'他们在哪里？'

‘I don’t know where they are,’ says Phil; ‘but I see ‘em, guv’ner. They was flat. And miste.’
“我不知道他们在哪里，”菲尔说。 “但我看到了他们，长官。”他们是平的。还有迷雾。’

Governor and commander are interchangeable terms with Phil, expressive of the same respect and deference and applicable to nobody but Mr. George.
总督和指挥官与菲尔是可以互换的术语，表达了同样的尊重和顺从，除了乔治先生之外，任何人都适用。

‘I was born in the country, Phil.’
“我出生在乡下，菲尔。”

‘Was you indeed, commander?’
“确实是你吗，指挥官？”

‘Yes. And bred there.’
'是的。并在那里长大。”

Phil elevates his one eyebrow, and after respectfully staring at his master to express interest, swallows a great gulp of coffee, still staring at him.
菲尔挑起一根眉毛，恭敬地盯着他的主人表达了兴趣后，喝了一大口咖啡，仍然盯着他。

‘There’s not a bird’s note that I don’t know,’ says Mr. George. ‘Not many an English leaf or berry that I couldn’t name. Not many a tree that I couldn’t climb yet if I was put to it. I was a real country boy, once. My good mother lived in the country.’
“没有一张鸟的音符是我不知道的，”乔治先生说。 “没有多少英国叶子或浆果是我叫不出名字的。如果让我爬上去的话，还没有多少棵树是我爬不上去的。我曾经是一个真正的乡下男孩。我的好母亲住在乡下。

‘She must have been a fine old lady, guv’ner,’ Phil observes.
“州长，她一定是一位漂亮的老太太，”菲尔评论道。

‘Aye! And not so old either, five and thirty years ago,’ says Mr. George. ‘But I’ll wager that at ninety she would be near as upright as me, and near as broad across the shoulders.’
‘是啊！而且也不那么老了，五三十年前，”乔治先生说。 “但我敢打赌，到了九十岁，她会和我一样直立，肩膀也一样宽阔。”

‘Did she die at ninety, guv’ner?’ inquires Phil.
“她九十岁就死了吗，州长？”菲尔问道。

‘No. Bosh! Let her rest in peace, God bless her!’ says the trooper. ‘What set me on about country boys, and runaways, and good-for-nothings? You, to be sure! So you never clapped your eyes upon the country—marshes and dreams excepted. Eh?’
'不。波什！让她安息吧，上帝保佑她！”士兵说道。 “是什么让我对乡村男孩、逃亡者和废物产生了兴趣？你，当然！所以你从来不会把目光投向这个国家——除了沼泽和梦想。嗯？’

Phil shakes his head.
菲尔摇摇头。

‘Do you want to see it?’
'你想看看吗？'

‘N-no, I don’t know as I do, particular,’ says Phil.
“不——不，我不知道，特别是，”菲尔说。

‘The town’s enough for you, eh?’
“这个小镇对你来说就足够了，嗯？”

‘Why, you see, commander,’ says Phil, ‘I ain’t acquainted with anythink else, and I doubt if I ain’t a-getting too old to take to novelties.’
“嘿，你看，指挥官，”菲尔说，“我对其他事情一无所知，而且我怀疑我是不是太老了，无法接受新鲜事物了。”

‘How old ARE you, Phil?’ asks the trooper, pausing as he conveys his smoking saucer to his lips.
“你多大了，菲尔？”士兵问道，将冒着烟的碟子放到唇边时停了下来。

‘I’m something with a eight in it,’ says Phil. ‘It can’t be eighty. Nor yet eighteen. It’s betwixt ‘em, somewheres.’
“我是一个带有八的东西，”菲尔说。 ‘不可能是八十。还没有十八岁。它就在“他们之间的某个地方”。

Mr. George, slowly putting down his saucer without tasting its contents, is laughingly beginning, ‘Why, what the deuce, Phil—‘ when he stops, seeing that Phil is counting on his dirty fingers.
乔治先生慢慢地放下碟子，没有品尝里面的东西，他笑着开始说：“嘿，到底是怎么回事，菲尔——”当他停下来时，看到菲尔正在用他肮脏的手指数数。

‘I was just eight,’ says Phil, ‘agreeable to the parish calculation, when I went with the tinker. I was sent on a errand, and I see him a-sittin under a old buildin with a fire all to himself wery comfortable, and he says, ‘Would you like to come along a me, my man?’ I says ‘Yes,’ and him and me and the fire goes home to Clerkenwell together. That was April Fool Day. I was able to count up to ten; and when April Fool Day come round again, I says to myself, ‘Now, old chap, you’re one and a eight in it.’ April Fool Day after that, I says, ‘Now, old chap, you’re two and a eight in it.’ In course of time, I come to ten and a eight in it; two tens and a eight in it. When it got so high, it got the upper hand of me, but this is how I always know there’s a eight in it.’
“当我和修补匠一起去时，我才八岁，”菲尔说，“同意教区的计算。”我被派去出差，我看到他坐在一座古老的建筑下，生着火，独自一人，非常舒服，他说，“你愿意和我一起去吗，我的朋友？”我说：“是的， ’然后他和我以及火一起回到克勒肯韦尔的家。那是愚人节。我能数到十；当愚人节再次到来时，我对自己说，“现在，老伙计，你是一加八。”在那之后的愚人节，我说，“现在，老伙计，你是二“里面有一个八。”随着时间的推移，我得到了十，里面有一个八。里面有两个十和一个八。当它变得如此高时，它占据了我的上风，但这就是我总是知道其中有一个八的方式。

‘Ah!’ says Mr. George, resuming his breakfast. ‘And where’s the tinker?’
“啊！”乔治先生一边说，一边继续吃早餐。 “补锅匠在哪里？”

‘Drink put him in the hospital, guv’ner, and the hospital put him— in a glass-case, I HAVE heerd,’ Phil replies mysteriously.
“领导，喝酒把他送进了医院，我听说，医院把他送进了玻璃柜里，”菲尔神秘地回答道。

‘By that means you got promotion? Took the business, Phil?’
‘这么说你就升职了？菲尔，接手这个生意了吗？

‘Yes, commander, I took the business. Such as it was. It wasn’t much of a beat—round Saffron Hill, Hatton Garden, Clerkenwell, Smiffeld, and there—poor neighbourhood, where they uses up the kettles till they’re past mending. Most of the tramping tinkers used to come and lodge at our place; that was the best part of my master’s earnings. But they didn’t come to me. I warn’t like him. He could sing ‘em a good song. I couldn’t! He could play ‘em a tune on any sort of pot you please, so as it was iron or block tin. I never could do nothing with a pot but mend it or bile it—never had a note of music in me. Besides, I was too ill-looking, and their wives complained of me.’
“是的，指挥官，我接手了这件事。就这样。在藏红花山、哈顿花园、克勒肯韦尔、斯米菲尔德以及那里的贫困社区周围，这并不是什么令人兴奋的事情，他们用完那里的水壶，直到它们无法修好为止。大多数流浪修补匠过去常来我们这里住宿。这是我主人收入中最好的部分。但他们没有来找我。我警告不喜欢他。他可以给他们唱一首好歌。我不能！他可以在任何你喜欢的锅上为他们演奏曲子，无论是铁锅还是锡块。除了修理它或给它胆汁之外，我对锅子什么也做不了——我身上从来没有任何音乐的音符。再说了，我长得也太难看了，他们的老婆都埋怨我。

‘They were mighty particular. You would pass muster in a crowd, Phil!’ says the trooper with a pleasant smile.
“他们非常特别。菲尔，你会在人群中通过检定的！”士兵带着愉快的微笑说道。

‘No, guv’ner,’ returns Phil, shaking his head. ‘No, I shouldn’t. I was passable enough when I went with the tinker, though nothing to boast of then; but what with blowing the fire with my mouth when I was young, and spileing my complexion, and singeing my hair off, and swallering the smoke, and what with being nat’rally unfort’nate in the way of running against hot metal and marking myself by sich means, and what with having turn-ups with the tinker as I got older, almost whenever he was too far gone in drink—which was almost always—my beauty was queer, wery queer, even at that time. As to since, what with a dozen years in a dark forge where the men was given to larking, and what with being scorched in a accident at a gas-works, and what with being blowed out of winder case-filling at the firework business, I am ugly enough to be made a show on!’
“不，领导，”菲尔摇着头回答道。 ‘不，我不应该。当我和补锅匠一起去的时候，我还过得去，虽然那时没什么值得夸耀的。但是年轻时用嘴吹火，弄脏了我的肤色，烧焦了我的头发，吞咽了烟雾，以及在与滚烫的金属碰撞和划痕方面自然不幸的事情随着年龄的增长，每当他喝得酩酊大醉时——这几乎总是——我的美就很奇怪，非常奇怪，即使在那个时候。自从那以后，人们在黑暗的锻造厂里度过了十几年，人们在那里嬉戏，在煤气厂的一次事故中被烧焦，在烟花生意中被从装满发条的盒子里吹出来。 ，我长得丑得让人作秀！

Resigning himself to which condition with a perfectly satisfied manner, Phil begs the favour of another cup of coffee. While drinking it, he says, ‘It was after the case-filling blow-up when I first see you, commander. You remember?’
菲尔以一种非常满意的方式接受了这种情况，请求再喝一杯咖啡。他边喝边说道：“我第一次见到你是在装箱爆炸之后，指挥官。”你记得？'

‘I remember, Phil. You were walking along in the sun.’
“我记得，菲尔。你在阳光下行走。

‘Crawling, guv’ner, again a wall—‘
“爬行，长官，又是一堵墙——”

‘True, Phil—shouldering your way on—‘
“没错，菲尔——你正在继续前进——”

‘In a night-cap!’ exclaims Phil, excited.
“戴着睡帽！”菲尔兴奋地喊道。

‘In a night-cap—‘
“戴着睡帽——”

‘And hobbling with a couple of sticks!’ cries Phil, still more excited.
“还有几根棍子，一瘸一拐的！”菲尔喊道，他更加兴奋了。

‘With a couple of sticks. When—‘
‘用几根棍子。什么时候-'

‘When you stops, you know,’ cries Phil, putting down his cup and saucer and hastily removing his plate from his knees, ‘and says to me, ‘What, comrade! You have been in the wars!’ I didn’t say much to you, commander, then, for I was took by surprise that a person so strong and healthy and bold as you was should stop to speak to such a limping bag of bones as I was. But you says to me, says you, delivering it out of your chest as hearty as possible, so that it was like a glass of something hot, ‘What accident have you met with? You have been badly hurt. What’s amiss, old boy? Cheer up, and tell us about it!’ Cheer up! I was cheered already! I says as much to you, you says more to me, I says more to you, you says more to me, and here I am, commander! Here I am, commander!’ cries Phil, who has started from his chair and unaccountably begun to sidle away. ‘If a mark’s wanted, or if it will improve the business, let the customers take aim at me. They can’t spoil MY beauty. I’M all right. Come on! If they want a man to box at, let ‘em box at me. Let ‘em knock me well about the head. I don’t mind. If they want a light-weight to be throwed for practice, Cornwall, Devonshire, or Lancashire, let ‘em throw me. They won’t hurt ME. I have been throwed, all sorts of styles, all my life!’
“当你停下来的时候，你知道，”菲尔喊道，放下杯子和碟子，急忙从膝盖上取下盘子，“对我说，‘什么，同志！你参加过战争！”我没有对你说太多，指挥官，因为我很惊讶像你这样强壮、健康、勇敢的人居然会停下来对这样一具跛行的骨头说话。像我以前一样。但你对我说，你说，尽可能地从你的胸口说出它，就像一杯热的东西一样，‘你遇到了什么意外？你受了重伤。老伙计，怎么了？振作起来，告诉我们这件事！’振作起来！我已经欢呼雀跃了！我对你说这么多，你对我说更多，我对你说更多，你对我说更多，我在这里，指挥官！我在这里，指挥官！”菲尔喊道，他从椅子上站起来，莫名其妙地开始侧身走开。 “如果想要一个商标，或者如果它能改善生意，就让顾客瞄准我吧。”他们不能破坏我的美丽。我很好。快点！如果他们想要一个人来拳击，那就让他们来拳击我吧。让他们狠狠地敲我的头吧。我不介意。如果他们想要扔一个轻量级的东西来练习，康沃尔郡、德文郡或兰开夏郡，就让他们扔我吧。他们不会伤害我。我一生都被抛弃过，各种各样的风格！

With this unexpected speech, energetically delivered and accompanied by action illustrative of the various exercises referred to, Phil Squod shoulders his way round three sides of the gallery, and abruptly tacking off at his commander, makes a butt at him with his head, intended to express devotion to his service. He then begins to clear away the breakfast.
菲尔·斯阔德在这段出人意料的演讲中，充满活力地发表了演讲，并伴随着所提到的各种练习的动作，他用肩膀绕过了观众席的三边，突然向他的指挥官发起进攻，用头撞了他，意图表达对他的服务的奉献精神。然后他开始收拾早餐。

Mr. George, after laughing cheerfully and clapping him on the shoulder, assists in these arrangements and helps to get the gallery into business order. That done, he takes a turn at the dumb-bells, and afterwards weighing himself and opining that he is getting ‘too fleshy,’ engages with great gravity in solitary broadsword practice. Meanwhile Phil has fallen to work at his usual table, where he screws and unscrews, and cleans, and files, and whistles into small apertures, and blackens himself more and more, and seems to do and undo everything that can be done and undone about a gun.
乔治先生高兴地大笑并拍拍他的肩膀后，协助进行这些安排，并帮助画廊恢复正常营业。完成后，他转动哑铃，然后称量自己，认为自己“太胖了”，然后以极大的重力进行单独的大刀练习。与此同时，菲尔在他惯用的桌子上开始工作，他在那里拧螺丝、拧螺丝、清洁、归档、吹口哨，把自己越来越黑，似乎可以做和撤消一切可以做和撤消的事情。一把枪。

Master and man are at length disturbed by footsteps in the passage, where they make an unusual sound, denoting the arrival of unusual company. These steps, advancing nearer and nearer to the gallery, bring into it a group at first sight scarcely reconcilable with any day in the year but the fifth of November.
主人和人终于被通道里的脚步声打扰了，他们发出了一种不寻常的声音，表明有不寻常的同伴到来。这些台阶离画廊越来越近，乍一看，除了十一月五日之外，这群人几乎与一年中的任何一天都格格不入。

It consists of a limp and ugly figure carried in a chair by two bearers and attended by a lean female with a face like a pinched mask, who might be expected immediately to recite the popular verses commemorative of the time when they did contrive to blow Old England up alive but for her keeping her lips tightly and defiantly closed as the chair is put down. At which point the figure in it gasping, ‘O Lord! Oh, dear me! I am shaken!’ adds, ‘How de do, my dear friend, how de do?’ Mr. George then descries, in the procession, the venerable Mr. Smallweed out for an airing, attended by his granddaughter Judy as body-guard.
它由两个轿夫抬在椅子上，由一个瘦弱的女性组成，她的脸像捏紧的面具，可能会立即背诵纪念他们确实设法吹旧的时代的流行诗句。英格兰队还活着，但在椅子放下时，她紧紧闭着嘴唇，挑衅地闭着嘴。就在这时，里面的人喘着气说：‘主啊！噢，亲爱的我！我震惊了！”补充道，“怎么办，我亲爱的朋友，怎么办？”乔治先生随后在游行队伍中描述了可敬的斯莫威德先生外出放风，他的孙女朱迪作为保镖陪同。

‘Mr. George, my dear friend,’ says Grandfather Smallweed, removing his right arm from the neck of one of his bearers, whom he has nearly throttled coming along, ‘how de do? You’re surprised to see me, my dear friend.’
'先生。乔治，我亲爱的朋友，”斯莫威德爷爷一边说着，一边从他的一名抬轿人的脖子上移开右臂，差点掐死了抬轿人的脚步，“你怎么样？你很惊讶地看到我，我亲爱的朋友。

‘I should hardly have been more surprised to have seen your friend in the city,’ returns Mr. George.
“在城里见到你的朋友，我简直不应该感到更惊讶，”乔治先生回答道。

‘I am very seldom out,’ pants Mr. Smallweed. ‘I haven’t been out for many months. It’s inconvenient—and it comes expensive. But I longed so much to see you, my dear Mr. George. How de do, sir?’
“我很少出去，”斯莫威德先生气喘吁吁地说。 ‘我已经好几个月没出去了。这很不方便，而且价格昂贵。但我非常渴望见到你，我亲爱的乔治先生。怎么样，先生？

‘I am well enough,’ says Mr. George. ‘I hope you are the same.’
“我很好，”乔治先生说。 “我希望你也一样。”

‘You can’t be too well, my dear friend.’ Mr. Smallweed takes him by both hands. ‘I have brought my granddaughter Judy. I couldn’t keep her away. She longed so much to see you.’
“你不太好，我亲爱的朋友。”斯莫威德先生握住他的双手。 “我带来了我的孙女朱迪。我无法让她远离我。她非常渴望见到你。

‘Hum! She hears it calmly!’ mutters Mr. George.
'哼！她平静地听着！”乔治先生嘀咕道。

‘So we got a hackney-cab, and put a chair in it, and just round the corner they lifted me out of the cab and into the chair, and carried me here that I might see my dear friend in his own establishment! This,’ says Grandfather Smallweed, alluding to the bearer, who has been in danger of strangulation and who withdraws adjusting his windpipe, ‘is the driver of the cab. He has nothing extra. It is by agreement included in his fare. This person,’ the other bearer, ‘we engaged in the street outside for a pint of beer. Which is twopence. Judy, give the person twopence. I was not sure you had a workman of your own here, my dear friend, or we needn’t have employed this person.’
“所以我们找了一辆出租马车，在里面放了一把椅子，就在拐角处，他们把我从出租车里抬到了椅子上，然后把我带到了这里，这样我就可以在他自己的住所里见到我亲爱的朋友了！”这位祖父斯莫威德说，他指的是那个有被勒死危险的人，他退出来调整气管，“是出租车司机。”他没有什么多余的。根据协议，它包含在他的票价中。这个人，”另一个搬运工，“我们在外面的街上喝了一品脱啤酒。这是两便士。朱迪，给那个人两便士。我不确定你这里有自己的工人，我亲爱的朋友，否则我们就不必雇用这个人了。

Grandfather Smallweed refers to Phil with a glance of considerable terror and a half-subdued ‘O Lord! Oh, dear me!’ Nor in his apprehension, on the surface of things, without some reason, for Phil, who has never beheld the apparition in the black-velvet cap before, has stopped short with a gun in his hand with much of the air of a dead shot intent on picking Mr. Smallweed off as an ugly old bird of the crow species.
斯莫威德爷爷用一种相当恐惧的眼神和半压抑的眼神提到菲尔：“主啊！哦，天哪！”他的忧虑也没有，从表面上看，没有任何原因，因为菲尔以前从未见过那个戴着黑天鹅绒帽子的幽灵，他突然停了下来，手里拿着一把枪，里面有很多东西。那种神情就像是一枪毙命，要把斯莫威德先生当作一只丑陋的乌鸦类老鸟来干掉。

‘Judy, my child,’ says Grandfather Smallweed, ‘give the person his twopence. It’s a great deal for what he has done.’
“朱迪，我的孩子，”斯莫威德爷爷说，“给这个人两便士。”对于他所做的事情来说，这是一件了不起的事情。

The person, who is one of those extraordinary specimens of human fungus that spring up spontaneously in the western streets of London, ready dressed in an old red jacket, with a ‘mission’ for holding horses and calling coaches, received his twopence with anything but transport, tosses the money into the air, catches it over-handed, and retires.
这个人是伦敦西部街道上自发出现的那些非凡的人类真菌标本之一，他穿着一件旧的红色夹克，肩负着牵马和叫马车的“使命”，他收到的两便士除了运输，将钱抛向空中，用力接住，然后退休。

‘My dear Mr. George,’ says Grandfather Smallweed, ‘would you be so kind as help to carry me to the fire? I am accustomed to a fire, and I am an old man, and I soon chill. Oh, dear me!’
“亲爱的乔治先生，”斯莫威德祖父说道，“您能帮我把我带到火场吗？”我习惯了火，而且我是个老人，很快就冷了。哦，天哪！’

His closing exclamation is jerked out of the venerable gentleman by the suddenness with which Mr. Squod, like a genie, catches him up, chair and all, and deposits him on the hearth-stone.
这位德高望重的绅士突然发出了最后的感叹，斯阔德先生像个精灵一样，突然抓住了他，连同椅子和所有东西，把他放在炉边的石头上。

‘O Lord!’ says Mr. Smallweed, panting. ‘Oh, dear me! Oh, my stars! My dear friend, your workman is very strong—and very prompt. O Lord, he is very prompt! Judy, draw me back a little. I’m being scorched in the legs,’ which indeed is testified to the noses of all present by the smell of his worsted stockings.
“主啊！”斯莫威德先生气喘吁吁地说。 ‘噢，亲爱的我！哦，我的星星！我亲爱的朋友，你的工人非常强大，而且非常迅速。主啊，他真是太及时了！朱迪，把我拉回来一点。我的腿被烧焦了，”他的精纺长袜的气味确实证明了在场所有人的鼻子。

The gentle Judy, having backed her grandfather a little way from the fire, and having shaken him up as usual, and having released his overshadowed eye from its black-velvet extinguisher, Mr. Smallweed again says, ‘Oh, dear me! O Lord!’ and looking about and meeting Mr. George’s glance, again stretches out both hands.
温柔的朱迪把她的祖父背到离火稍远的地方，像往常一样把他摇醒，然后从黑天鹅绒灭火器中松开被遮住的眼睛，斯莫威德先生再次说道：“哦，天哪！”主啊！”他环顾四周，迎上乔治先生的目光，再次伸出双手。

‘My dear friend! So happy in this meeting! And this is your establishment? It’s a delightful place. It’s a picture! You never find that anything goes off here accidentally, do you, my dear friend?’ adds Grandfather Smallweed, very ill at ease.
'我亲爱的朋友！这次聚会真开心！这是你的机构吗？这是一个令人愉快的地方。这是一张照片！你从来不会发现这里有任何事情会意外发生，不是吗，我亲爱的朋友？”斯莫威德祖父非常不安地补充道。

‘No, no. No fear of that.’
'不，不。不用担心这个。

‘And your workman. He—Oh, dear me!—he never lets anything off without meaning it, does he, my dear friend?’
‘还有你的工人。他——哦，天哪！——他从来不会无缘无故地放过任何事，不是吗，我亲爱的朋友？

‘He has never hurt anybody but himself,’ says Mr. George, smiling.
“除了他自己，他从来没有伤害过任何人，”乔治先生微笑着说道。

‘But he might, you know. He seems to have hurt himself a good deal, and he might hurt somebody else,’ the old gentleman returns. ‘He mightn’t mean it—or he even might. Mr. George, will you order him to leave his infernal firearms alone and go away?’
“但你知道，他可能会这么做。他似乎已经伤害了自己很多，而且他可能会伤害别人。”老先生回答道。 “他可能不是这个意思——或者他甚至可能是这个意思。乔治先生，你能命令他别管他那该死的枪并走开吗？

Obedient to a nod from the trooper, Phil retires, empty-handed, to the other end of the gallery. Mr. Smallweed, reassured, falls to rubbing his legs.
菲尔听从警察的点头，空手退到画廊的另一端。斯莫威德先生放心了，开始揉腿。

‘And you’re doing well, Mr. George?’ he says to the trooper, squarely standing faced about towards him with his broadsword in his hand. ‘You are prospering, please the Powers?’
“乔治先生，你做得很好吗？”他对士兵说道，手里拿着大刀，面朝他正对着他站着。 “请问列强们，你们很繁荣吗？”

Mr. George answers with a cool nod, adding, ‘Go on. You have not come to say that, I know.’
乔治先生冷静地点点头，补充道：“继续吧。”我知道你不是来这么说的。

‘You are so sprightly, Mr. George,’ returns the venerable grandfather. ‘You are such good company.’
“你真是太活泼了，乔治先生，”德高望重的祖父回答道。 “你们真是个好伙伴。”

‘Ha ha! Go on!’ says Mr. George.
'哈哈！继续吧！”乔治先生说。

‘My dear friend! But that sword looks awful gleaming and sharp. It might cut somebody, by accident. It makes me shiver, Mr. George. Curse him!’ says the excellent old gentleman apart to Judy as the trooper takes a step or two away to lay it aside. ‘He owes me money, and might think of paying off old scores in this murdering place. I wish your brimstone grandmother was here, and he’d shave her head off.’
'我亲爱的朋友！但这把剑看起来闪闪发亮，锋利无比。它可能会意外地割伤某人。这让我发抖，乔治先生。诅咒他！”那位优秀的老绅士对朱迪说道，而士兵则退开一两步，把它放在一边。 “他欠我钱，可能会想在这个杀人之地还清旧账。”我希望你的硫磺祖母在这里，他会把她的头剃掉。

Mr. George, returning, folds his arms, and looking down at the old man, sliding every moment lower and lower in his chair, says quietly, ‘Now for it!’
乔治先生回来了，抱起双臂，低头看着老人，在椅子上一步一步地滑下去，平静地说：“现在就开始吧！”

‘Ho!’ cries Mr. Smallweed, rubbing his hands with an artful chuckle. ‘Yes. Now for it. Now for what, my dear friend?’
“嗬！”斯莫尔韦德先生一边叫道，一边巧妙地笑着搓着手。 '是的。现在就开始吧。现在做什么，我亲爱的朋友？

‘For a pipe,’ says Mr. George, who with great composure sets his chair in the chimney-corner, takes his pipe from the grate, fills it and lights it, and falls to smoking peacefully.
“买烟斗，”乔治先生平静地说，他把椅子放在烟囱一角，从炉排上取下烟斗，装满烟斗，点燃，然后安静地抽烟。

This tends to the discomfiture of Mr. Smallweed, who finds it so difficult to resume his object, whatever it may be, that he becomes exasperated and secretly claws the air with an impotent vindictiveness expressive of an intense desire to tear and rend the visage of Mr. George. As the excellent old gentleman’s nails are long and leaden, and his hands lean and veinous, and his eyes green and watery; and, over and above this, as he continues, while he claws, to slide down in his chair and to collapse into a shapeless bundle, he becomes such a ghastly spectacle, even in the accustomed eyes of Judy, that that young virgin pounces at him with something more than the ardour of affection and so shakes him up and pats and pokes him in divers parts of his body, but particularly in that part which the science of self-defence would call his wind, that in his grievous distress he utters enforced sounds like a paviour’s rammer.
这往往会让斯莫尔威德先生感到沮丧，他发现无论它是什么，都很难恢复他的目标，以至于他变得恼怒并偷偷地用爪子抓着空气，带着一种无能为力的报复性，表达了一种强烈的欲望，想要撕裂和撕碎他的面容。乔治先生。这位优秀的老先生的指甲又长又铅，他的手又瘦又青，眼睛又绿又水汪汪；除此之外，当他继续用爪子滑落到椅子上并塌陷成一团无形的东西时，即使在朱迪习惯的眼中，他也变得如此可怕，以至于那个年轻的处女扑向了他。他怀着比热情更强烈的感情，摇晃着他，拍打着他身体的各个部位，特别是在自卫科学中称为“风”的部位，在他极度痛苦的情况下，他说出了这样的话：强制听起来就像铺路机的夯锤。

When Judy has by these means set him up again in his chair, with a white face and a frosty nose (but still clawing), she stretches out her weazen forefinger and gives Mr. George one poke in the back. The trooper raising his head, she makes another poke at her esteemed grandfather, and having thus brought them together, stares rigidly at the fire.
当朱迪用这些方法把他重新坐到椅子上时，他的脸色苍白，鼻子冰冷（但仍在抓挠），她伸出软弱的食指，在乔治先生的背上戳了一下。士兵抬起头，她又戳了戳她尊敬的祖父，这样就把他们聚集在一起，僵硬地盯着火。

‘Aye, aye! Ho, ho! U—u—u—ugh!’ chatters Grandfather Smallweed, swallowing his rage. ‘My dear friend!’ (still clawing).
'好的好的！嗬嗬！ “呃——呃——呃——呃！”斯莫威德祖父喋喋不休地说着，吞下了怒火。 “我亲爱的朋友！”（仍然抓着）。

‘I tell you what,’ says Mr. George. ‘If you want to converse with me, you must speak out. I am one of the roughs, and I can’t go about and about. I haven’t the art to do it. I am not clever enough. It don’t suit me. When you go winding round and round me,’ says the trooper, putting his pipe between his lips again, ‘damme, if I don’t feel as if I was being smothered!’
“我告诉你吧，”乔治先生说。 ‘如果你想和我说话，你就必须说出来。我是粗暴的人之一，我不能到处走走。我没有能力做到这一点。我不够聪明。它不适合我。当你绕着我转了一圈又一圈时，”士兵再次将烟斗放在嘴唇之间说道，“该死，如果我不觉得自己快要窒息了！”

And he inflates his broad chest to its utmost extent as if to assure himself that he is not smothered yet.
他将宽阔的胸膛膨胀到最大程度，仿佛在向自己保证自己还没有窒息。

‘If you have come to give me a friendly call,’ continues Mr. George, ‘I am obliged to you; how are you? If you have come to see whether there’s any property on the premises, look about you; you are welcome. If you want to out with something, out with it!’
“如果你来给我一个友好的拜访，”乔治先生继续说道，“我很感激你；你好吗？如果您来查看该处所是否有任何财产，请看看您的周围；不客气。如果你想出去做点什么，那就出去吧！

The blooming Judy, without removing her gaze from the fire, gives her grandfather one ghostly poke.
盛开的朱迪的目光没有从火上移开，幽灵般地戳了她祖父一记。

‘You see! It’s her opinion too. And why the devil that young woman won’t sit down like a Christian,’ says Mr. George with his eyes musingly fixed on Judy, ‘I can’t comprehend.’
'你看！这也是她的意见。为什么那个年轻女子不肯像基督徒那样坐下来，”乔治先生说道，他的眼睛若有所思地盯着朱迪，“我无法理解。”

‘She keeps at my side to attend to me, sir,’ says Grandfather Smallweed. ‘I am an old man, my dear Mr. George, and I need some attention. I can carry my years; I am not a brimstone poll-parrot’ (snarling and looking unconsciously for the cushion), ‘but I need attention, my dear friend.’
“她一直在我身边照顾我，先生，”斯莫威德祖父说道。 “我是个老人了，亲爱的乔治先生，我需要一些照顾。我可以承载我的岁月；我不是一只硫磺鹦鹉”（咆哮着，无意识地寻找垫子），“但我需要关注，我亲爱的朋友。”

‘Well!’ returns the trooper, wheeling his chair to face the old man. ‘Now then?’
“好吧！”士兵回答道，转动椅子面向老人。 '接着？'

‘My friend in the city, Mr. George, has done a little business with a pupil of yours.’
“我在城里的朋友乔治先生和你的一个学生做了一笔小生意。”

‘Has he?’ says Mr. George. ‘I am sorry to hear it.’
“他有吗？”乔治先生说。 “听到这个消息我很遗憾。”

‘Yes, sir.’ Grandfather Smallweed rubs his legs. ‘He is a fine young soldier now, Mr. George, by the name of Carstone. Friends came forward and paid it all up, honourable.’
“是的，先生。”斯莫威德爷爷揉着腿。 “乔治先生，他现在是一名优秀的年轻士兵，名叫卡斯通。朋友们挺身而出，付清了全部费用，很荣幸。”

‘Did they?’ returns Mr. George. ‘Do you think your friend in the city would like a piece of advice?’
“是吗？”乔治先生回答道。 “你认为你在城里的朋友愿意听听建议吗？”

‘I think he would, my dear friend. From you.’
“我想他会的，我亲爱的朋友。来自你。

‘I advise him, then, to do no more business in that quarter. There’s no more to be got by it. The young gentleman, to my knowledge, is brought to a dead halt.’
“那么，我建议他在那个季度不要再做生意了。”再也没有什么可得到的了。据我所知，这位年轻的绅士完全停了下来。

‘No, no, my dear friend. No, no, Mr. George. No, no, no, sir,’ remonstrates Grandfather Smallweed, cunningly rubbing his spare legs. ‘Not quite a dead halt, I think. He has good friends, and he is good for his pay, and he is good for the selling price of his commission, and he is good for his chance in a lawsuit, and he is good for his chance in a wife, and—oh, do you know, Mr. George, I think my friend would consider the young gentleman good for something yet?’ says Grandfather Smallweed, turning up his velvet cap and scratching his ear like a monkey.
‘不，不，我亲爱的朋友。不，不，乔治先生。不，不，不，先生。”斯莫威德祖父狡猾地揉着他多余的腿，抗议道。 “我认为，这还不算完全停止。他有好朋友，他对他的薪水有利，他对他的佣金的售价有利，他对他打官司的机会有利，他对他娶妻子的机会有利，而且——哦“乔治先生，你知道吗，我想我的朋友会认为这位年轻的绅士有什么用处吗？”斯莫威德祖父说道，他掀起天鹅绒帽子，像猴子一样抓耳朵。

Mr. George, who has put aside his pipe and sits with an arm on his chair-back, beats a tattoo on the ground with his right foot as if he were not particularly pleased with the turn the conversation has taken.
乔治先生把烟斗放在一边，一只手臂搭在椅背上，用右脚敲打着地上的纹身，似乎对谈话的转变不太满意。

‘But to pass from one subject to another,’ resumes Mr. Smallweed. ‘‘To promote the conversation, as a joker might say. To pass, Mr. George, from the ensign to the captain.’
“但是要从一个主题转到另一个主题，”斯莫威德先生继续说道。 “正如一个小丑可能会说的那样，为了促进对话。乔治先生，从少尉转到船长。”

‘What are you up to, now?’ asks Mr. George, pausing with a frown in stroking the recollection of his moustache. ‘What captain?’
“你现在在做什么？”乔治先生问道，他皱着眉头抚摸着自己的小胡子。 “什么队长？”

‘Our captain. The captain we know of. Captain Hawdon.’
‘我们的队长。我们认识的船长。霍顿船长。”

‘Oh! That’s it, is it?’ says Mr. George with a low whistle as he sees both grandfather and granddaughter looking hard at him. ‘You are there! Well? What about it? Come, I won’t be smothered any more. Speak!’
'哦！就是这样，是吗？”乔治先生低声吹着口哨说道，因为他看到祖父和孙女都在注视着他。 '你在那里！出色地？那又怎样呢？来吧，我不会再被闷闷不乐了。说话！'

‘My dear friend,’ returns the old man, ‘I was applied—Judy, shake me up a little!—I was applied to yesterday about the captain, and my opinion still is that the captain is not dead.’
“我亲爱的朋友，”老人回答道，“我被申请了——朱迪，让我振作一点！——我昨天被申请了关于船长的事情，而我的观点仍然是船长没有死。”

‘Bosh!’ observes Mr. George.
“波什！”乔治先生评论道。

‘What was your remark, my dear friend?’ inquires the old man with his hand to his ear.
“我亲爱的朋友，你说什么？”老人用手捂着耳朵问道。

‘Bosh!’
“波什！”

‘Ho!’ says Grandfather Smallweed. ‘Mr. George, of my opinion you can judge for yourself according to the questions asked of me and the reasons given for asking ‘em. Now, what do you think the lawyer making the inquiries wants?’
“嗬！”斯莫威德爷爷说道。 '先生。乔治，我认为你可以根据我提出的问题和提出问题的原因自行判断。现在，你认为进行调查的律师想要什么？

‘A job,’ says Mr. George.
“一份工作，”乔治先生说。

‘Nothing of the kind!’
“不是这样的！”

‘Can’t be a lawyer, then,’ says Mr. George, folding his arms with an air of confirmed resolution.
“那么，就不能当律师了，”乔治先生说，他抱着双臂，一副坚定的决心。

‘My dear friend, he is a lawyer, and a famous one. He wants to see some fragment in Captain Hawdon’s writing. He don’t want to keep it. He only wants to see it and compare it with a writing in his possession.’
“我亲爱的朋友，他是一名律师，而且是一位著名的律师。他想看看霍顿船长笔下的一些片段。他不想保留它。他只想看到它并与他拥有的文字进行比较。

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Well, Mr. George. Happening to remember the advertisement concerning Captain Hawdon and any information that could be given respecting him, he looked it up and came to me—just as you did, my dear friend. WILL you shake hands? So glad you came that day! I should have missed forming such a friendship if you hadn’t come!’
“好吧，乔治先生。他碰巧想起了关于霍顿船长的广告以及任何可以提供的有关他的信息，他查了一下然后来找我——就像你一样，我亲爱的朋友。你愿意握手吗？很高兴你那天来了！如果你不来，我就错过了建立这样的友谊！

‘Well, Mr. Smallweed?’ says Mr. George again after going through the ceremony with some stiffness.
“怎么样，斯莫威德先生？”乔治先生在略显僵硬地完成了仪式后再次说道。

‘I had no such thing. I have nothing but his signature. Plague pestilence and famine, battle murder and sudden death upon him,’ says the old man, making a curse out of one of his few remembrances of a prayer and squeezing up his velvet cap between his angry hands, ‘I have half a million of his signatures, I think! But you,’ breathlessly recovering his mildness of speech as Judy readjusts the cap on his skittle-ball of a head, ‘you, my dear Mr. George, are likely to have some letter or paper that would suit the purpose. Anything would suit the purpose, written in the hand.’
‘我没有这样的事。我除了他的签名什么都没有。瘟疫、饥荒、战争、谋杀和突然死亡降临在他身上，”老人说着，从他为数不多的一次祈祷的记忆中咒骂了一句，并用愤怒的双手挤压了他的天鹅绒帽子，“我有五十万我想是他的签名！但是你，”当朱迪重新调整他的九柱球头上的帽子时，气喘吁吁地恢复了他温和的言语，“你，我亲爱的乔治先生，很可能有一些适合这个目的的信或纸。任何东西都会适合目的，用手写下来。”

‘Some writing in that hand,’ says the trooper, pondering; ‘may be, I have.’
“那只手上写着一些字，”士兵沉思着说道。 “也许是，我有。”

‘My dearest friend!’
“我最亲爱的朋友！”

‘May be, I have not.’
“也许是，但我没有。”

‘Ho!’ says Grandfather Smallweed, crest-fallen.
“嗬！”斯莫威德爷爷垂头丧气地说。

‘But if I had bushels of it, I would not show as much as would make a cartridge without knowing why.’
“但如果我有几蒲式耳的它，我就不会展示出像制作墨盒那样多的东西，而且不知道为什么。”

‘Sir, I have told you why. My dear Mr. George, I have told you why.’
‘先生，我已经告诉过你原因了。我亲爱的乔治先生，我已经告诉过你原因了。

‘Not enough,’ says the trooper, shaking his head. ‘I must know more, and approve it.’
“还不够，”士兵摇摇头说道。 “我必须了解更多，并批准它。”

‘Then, will you come to the lawyer? My dear friend, will you come and see the gentleman?’ urges Grandfather Smallweed, pulling out a lean old silver watch with hands like the leg of a skeleton. ‘I told him it was probable I might call upon him between ten and eleven this forenoon, and it’s now half after ten. Will you come and see the gentleman, Mr. George?’
‘那么，你会去找律师吗？我亲爱的朋友，你能来看看这位先生吗？”斯莫威德祖父催促道，他的手就像骷髅腿一样，拿出一块瘦长的旧银表。 “我告诉他，我可能会在今天上午十点到十一点之间拜访他，而现在已经是十点半了。乔治先生，您能来看望这位先生吗？

‘Hum!’ says he gravely. ‘I don’t mind that. Though why this should concern you so much, I don’t know.’
“哼！”他严肃地说。 “我不介意这个。虽然我不知道为什么这会让你如此担心。

‘Everything concerns me that has a chance in it of bringing anything to light about him. Didn’t he take us all in? Didn’t he owe us immense sums, all round? Concern me? Who can anything about him concern more than me? Not, my dear friend,’ says Grandfather Smallweed, lowering his tone, ‘that I want YOU to betray anything. Far from it. Are you ready to come, my dear friend?’
“一切与我有关的事情都有机会揭露关于他的一切。”他没有把我们都带进去吗？他不是欠我们一大笔钱吗？关心我吗？谁能比我更关心他的事呢？我亲爱的朋友，”斯莫威德祖父压低了语气说道，“我并不希望你背叛任何事情。离得很远。我亲爱的朋友，你准备好了吗？

‘Aye! I’ll come in a moment. I promise nothing, you know.’
‘是啊！我一会儿就来。我什么也不保证，你知道的。

‘No, my dear Mr. George; no.’
“不，我亲爱的乔治先生；不。'

‘And you mean to say you’re going to give me a lift to this place, wherever it is, without charging for it?’ Mr. George inquires, getting his hat and thick wash-leather gloves.
“你的意思是说，你要载我到这个地方，无论它在哪里，而且不收费？”乔治先生问道，拿起帽子和厚厚的水洗皮手套。

This pleasantry so tickles Mr. Smallweed that he laughs, long and low, before the fire. But ever while he laughs, he glances over his paralytic shoulder at Mr. George and eagerly watches him as he unlocks the padlock of a homely cupboard at the distant end of the gallery, looks here and there upon the higher shelves, and ultimately takes something out with a rustling of paper, folds it, and puts it in his breast. Then Judy pokes Mr. Smallweed once, and Mr. Smallweed pokes Judy once.
这种客套话让斯莫威德先生很高兴，他在火堆前低声长笑。但每当他笑的时候，他就会越过瘫痪的肩膀看向乔治先生，热切地看着他打开画廊远端一个普通橱柜的挂锁，在更高的架子上到处看看，最后拿了一些东西。沙沙作响，纸被拿出来，折叠起来，放进怀里。然后朱迪戳了斯莫尔韦德先生一次，斯莫尔韦德先生也戳了朱迪一次。

‘I am ready,’ says the trooper, coming back. ‘Phil, you can carry this old gentleman to his coach, and make nothing of him.’
“我准备好了，”士兵回来后说道。 “菲尔，你可以把这位老先生带到他的马车上，而不要把他当回事。”

‘Oh, dear me! O Lord! Stop a moment!’ says Mr. Smallweed. ‘He’s so very prompt! Are you sure you can do it carefully, my worthy man?’
‘噢，亲爱的我！主啊！ “等一下！”斯莫威德先生说道。 ‘他真是太及时了！你确定你能小心翼翼地做到这一点吗，我值得尊敬的人？

Phil makes no reply, but seizing the chair and its load, sidles away, tightly bugged by the now speechless Mr. Smallweed, and bolts along the passage as if he had an acceptable commission to carry the old gentleman to the nearest volcano. His shorter trust, however, terminating at the cab, he deposits him there; and the fair Judy takes her place beside him, and the chair embellishes the roof, and Mr. George takes the vacant place upon the box.
菲尔没有回答，但抓起椅子和上面的东西，侧身走开，被现在已经说不出话的斯莫威德先生牢牢堵住，沿着通道狂奔，仿佛他有一个可以接受的委托，要把这位老绅士带到最近的火山。然而，他的信托时间较短，最终在出租车处结束，他把他安置在那里。美丽的朱迪坐在他旁边，椅子装饰着屋顶，乔治先生则占据了包厢上的空位。

Mr. George is quite confounded by the spectacle he beholds from time to time as he peeps into the cab through the window behind him, where the grim Judy is always motionless, and the old gentleman with his cap over one eye is always sliding off the seat into the straw and looking upward at him out of his other eye with a helpless expression of being jolted in the back.
乔治先生时不时地从身后的窗户往驾驶室里看去，看到的景象让他感到很困惑，里面面容严峻的朱迪总是一动不动，而那个戴着帽子遮住一只眼睛的老绅士总是从车上滑下来。坐在稻草上，用另一只眼睛向上看着他，脸上露出一种背部被摇晃的无助表情。

CHAPTER XXVII
第二十七章


More Old Soldiers Than One
老兵多于一名

Mr. George has not far to ride with folded arms upon the box, for their destination is Lincoln’s Inn Fields. When the driver stops his horses, Mr. George alights, and looking in at the window, says, ‘What, Mr. Tulkinghorn’s your man, is he?’
乔治先生抱着双臂骑在箱子上已经不远了，因为他们的目的地是林肯因菲尔兹。当车夫停下马时，乔治先生下了车，看着窗外说道：“什么，塔尔金霍恩先生是你的人，是吗？”

‘Yes, my dear friend. Do you know him, Mr. George?’
‘是的，我亲爱的朋友。乔治先生，你认识他吗？

‘Why, I have heard of him—seen him too, I think. But I don’t know him, and he don’t know me.’
“哎呀，我听说过他——我想也见过他。但我不认识他，他也不认识我。”

There ensues the carrying of Mr. Smallweed upstairs, which is done to perfection with the trooper’s help. He is borne into Mr. Tulkinghorn’s great room and deposited on the Turkey rug before the fire. Mr. Tulkinghorn is not within at the present moment but will be back directly. The occupant of the pew in the hall, having said thus much, stirs the fire and leaves the triumvirate to warm themselves.
随后，斯莫尔韦德先生被抬上楼，在警察的帮助下，这件事做得非常完美。他被抬进图金霍恩先生的大房间，放在火前的土耳其地毯上。图金霍恩先生目前不在，但会直接回来。大厅里长椅上的人说了这么多，就搅动了火，让三人组去取暖。

Mr. George is mightily curious in respect of the room. He looks up at the painted ceiling, looks round at the old law-books, contemplates the portraits of the great clients, reads aloud the names on the boxes.
乔治先生对这个房间非常好奇。他抬头看着彩绘天花板，环顾四周古老的法律书籍，凝视着大客户的肖像，大声朗读盒子上的名字。

‘‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,’’ Mr. George reads thoughtfully. ‘Ha! ‘Manor of Chesney Wold.’ Humph!’ Mr. George stands looking at these boxes a long while—as if they were pictures—and comes back to the fire repeating, ‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, and Manor of Chesney Wold, hey?’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，”乔治先生若有所思地读道。 '哈！ “切斯尼沃尔德庄园。”哼！”乔治先生站在那里看着这些盒子好一会儿——就好像它们是图画一样——然后回到火边重复道：“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，还有切斯尼沃尔德庄园，嘿？

‘Worth a mint of money, Mr. George!’ whispers Grandfather Smallweed, rubbing his legs. ‘Powerfully rich!’
“值一毛钱，乔治先生！”斯莫威德祖父一边低声说道，一边揉着腿。 “非常富有！”

‘Who do you mean? This old gentleman, or the Baronet?’
‘你指的是谁？这位老先生，还是准男爵？

‘This gentleman, this gentleman.’
“这位先生，这位先生。”

‘So I have heard; and knows a thing or two, I’ll hold a wager. Not bad quarters, either,’ says Mr. George, looking round again. ‘See the strong-box yonder!’
‘我听说过；并且知道一两件事，我会打赌。乔治先生再次环顾四周说道。 “看那边的保险箱！”

This reply is cut short by Mr. Tulkinghorn’s arrival. There is no change in him, of course. Rustily drest, with his spectacles in his hand, and their very case worn threadbare. In manner, close and dry. In voice, husky and low. In face, watchful behind a blind; habitually not uncensorious and contemptuous perhaps. The peerage may have warmer worshippers and faithfuller believers than Mr. Tulkinghorn, after all, if everything were known.
图金霍恩先生的到来打断了我的答复。当然，他没有任何改变。他穿着生锈的衣服，手里拿着眼镜，眼镜盒也已经破旧不堪。在方式上，紧密且干燥。声音沙哑而低沉。面对面前，在百叶窗后面保持警惕；也许习惯性地不是不挑剔和轻蔑的。毕竟，如果一切都知道的话，贵族阶层可能比图尔金霍恩先生拥有更热情的崇拜者和更忠实的信徒。

‘Good morning, Mr. Smallweed, good morning!’ he says as he comes in. ‘You have brought the sergeant, I see. Sit down, sergeant.’
“早上好，斯莫威德先生，早上好！”他进来时说道。“我明白了，你带来了中士。”坐下，中士。”

As Mr. Tulkinghorn takes off his gloves and puts them in his hat, he looks with half-closed eyes across the room to where the trooper stands and says within himself perchance, ‘You’ll do, my friend!’
当图金霍恩先生脱下手套并将其戴在帽子上时，他半闭着眼睛看着房间另一边的士兵所站的地方，心里也许在说：“你会的，我的朋友！”

‘Sit down, sergeant,’ he repeats as he comes to his table, which is set on one side of the fire, and takes his easy-chair. ‘Cold and raw this morning, cold and raw!’ Mr. Tulkinghorn warms before the bars, alternately, the palms and knuckles of his hands and looks (from behind that blind which is always down) at the trio sitting in a little semicircle before him.
“坐下，中士，”他一边重复一边走到位于火炉一侧的桌子旁，坐上安乐椅。 “今天早上又冷又冷，又冷又冷！”图金霍恩先生在栏杆前暖和了一下手掌和指关节，然后看着（从总是垂下的百叶窗后面）坐在前面围成一个小半圆的三人组。他。

‘Now, I can feel what I am about’ (as perhaps he can in two senses), ‘Mr. Smallweed.’ The old gentleman is newly shaken up by Judy to bear his part in the conversation. ‘You have brought our good friend the sergeant, I see.’
“现在，我能感受到我的存在”（也许他可以在两种意义上感受到），“先生。”老先生刚刚被朱迪摇醒，开始参与谈话。 “我明白了，你把我们的好朋友中士带来了。”

‘Yes, sir,’ returns Mr. Smallweed, very servile to the lawyer’s wealth and influence.
“是的，先生。”斯莫威德先生回答道，他对律师的财富和影响力非常臣服。

‘And what does the sergeant say about this business?’
“中士对这件事怎么说？”

‘Mr. George,’ says Grandfather Smallweed with a tremulous wave of his shrivelled hand, ‘this is the gentleman, sir.’
'先生。乔治，”斯莫威德祖父颤抖着挥动枯萎的手说道，“这就是那位绅士，先生。”

Mr. George salutes the gentleman but otherwise sits bolt upright and profoundly silent—very forward in his chair, as if the full complement of regulation appendages for a field-day hung about him.
乔治先生向这位绅士行了个礼，但除此之外，他笔直地坐着，一言不发——他的椅子非常靠前，就好像他身上挂满了野外活动所需的全套规章制度。

Mr. Tulkinghorn proceeds, ‘Well, George—I believe your name is George?’
图金霍恩先生继续说道：“好吧，乔治——我相信你的名字是乔治？”

‘It is so, Sir.’
“是这样的，先生。”

‘What do you say, George?’
“乔治，你说什么？”

‘I ask your pardon, sir,’ returns the trooper, ‘but I should wish to know what YOU say?’
“请您原谅，先生，”士兵回答道，“但我想知道您说什么？”

‘Do you mean in point of reward?’
“你是指奖励吗？”

‘I mean in point of everything, sir.’
“我指的是一切方面，先生。”

This is so very trying to Mr. Smallweed’s temper that he suddenly breaks out with ‘You’re a brimstone beast!’ and as suddenly asks pardon of Mr. Tulkinghorn, excusing himself for this slip of the tongue by saying to Judy, ‘I was thinking of your grandmother, my dear.’
这对斯莫尔韦德先生的脾气来说太令人恼火了，他突然爆发出“你是一头硫磺野兽！”，并突然向图金霍恩先生请求原谅，他对朱迪说：“我为自己的失言道歉。”我在想你的祖母，亲爱的。”

‘I supposed, sergeant,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn resumes as he leans on one side of his chair and crosses his legs, ‘that Mr. Smallweed might have sufficiently explained the matter. It lies in the smallest compass, however. You served under Captain Hawdon at one time, and were his attendant in illness, and rendered him many little services, and were rather in his confidence, I am told. That is so, is it not?’
“我想，中士，”塔尔金霍恩先生靠在椅子的一侧，盘起双腿，继续说道，“斯莫威德先生可能已经充分解释了此事。然而，它位于最小的罗盘中。我听说，你曾在霍顿上尉麾下服役，在他生病时担任他的侍从，为他提供了许多小服务，并且相当信任他。是这样，不是吗？

‘Yes, sir, that is so,’ says Mr. George with military brevity.
“是的，先生，确实如此，”乔治先生用军事般的简洁语气说道。

‘Therefore you may happen to have in your possession something— anything, no matter what; accounts, instructions, orders, a letter, anything—in Captain Hawdon’s writing. I wish to compare his writing with some that I have. If you can give me the opportunity, you shall be rewarded for your trouble. Three, four, five, guineas, you would consider handsome, I dare say.’
‘因此，你可能碰巧拥有一些东西——任何东西，无论是什么；账目、指示、命令、一封信，任何东西——都是霍顿上尉写的。我想将他的作品与我的一些作品进行比较。如果你能给我这个机会，你的辛苦就会得到回报。三、四、五几尼，我敢说你会认为很帅。

‘Noble, my dear friend!’ cries Grandfather Smallweed, screwing up his eyes.
“高贵的，我亲爱的朋友！”斯莫威德祖父眯着眼睛喊道。

‘If not, say how much more, in your conscience as a soldier, you can demand. There is no need for you to part with the writing, against your inclination—though I should prefer to have it.’
“如果没有，请说一下，以你作为一名士兵的良心，你还可以要求多少。”你没有必要违背自己的意愿而放弃写作——尽管我更愿意拥有它。

Mr. George sits squared in exactly the same attitude, looks at the painted ceiling, and says never a word. The irascible Mr. Smallweed scratches the air.
乔治先生以完全相同的姿势端正地坐着，看着彩绘的天花板，一言不发。暴躁的斯莫威德先生在空中抓挠。

‘The question is,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn in his methodical, subdued, uninterested way, ‘first, whether you have any of Captain Hawdon’s writing?’
“问题是，”图金霍恩先生以他有条不紊、克制的、不感兴趣的方式说道，“首先，你有没有霍登船长的作品？”

‘First, whether I have any of Captain Hawdon’s writing, sir,’ repeats Mr. George.
“首先，先生，我是否有霍登船长的著作，”乔治先生重复道。

‘Secondly, what will satisfy you for the trouble of producing it?’
“第二，什么能让你在制作它时费尽心思？”

‘Secondly, what will satisfy me for the trouble of producing it, sir,’ repeats Mr. George.
“第二，先生，有什么能让我在制作它时感到满意，”乔治先生重复道。

‘Thirdly, you can judge for yourself whether it is at all like that,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, suddenly handing him some sheets of written paper tied together.
“第三，你可以自己判断是否真的如此，”图尔金霍恩先生说，突然递给他几张绑在一起的纸。

‘Whether it is at all like that, sir. Just so,’ repeats Mr. George.
“到底是不是这样，先生。正是如此，”乔治先生重复道。

All three repetitions Mr. George pronounces in a mechanical manner, looking straight at Mr. Tulkinghorn; nor does he so much as glance at the affidavit in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, that has been given to him for his inspection (though he still holds it in his hand), but continues to look at the lawyer with an air of troubled meditation.
乔治先生直视图尔金霍恩先生，以机械的方式重复了这三遍。他也没有看一眼交给他供他检查的《贾迪斯和贾迪斯》的宣誓书（尽管他手里还拿着它），而是继续带着一种困扰的沉思的神情看着律师。

‘Well?’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘What do you say?’
“怎么样？”图金霍恩先生说。 '你怎么说？'

‘Well, sir,’ replies Mr. George, rising erect and looking immense, ‘I would rather, if you’ll excuse me, have nothing to do with this.’
“好吧，先生，”乔治先生回答道，他站直了身子，看上去身材高大，“请原谅，我宁愿与这件事无关。”

Mr. Tulkinghorn, outwardly quite undisturbed, demands, ‘Why not?’
图金霍恩先生表面上很平静，问道：“为什么不呢？”

‘Why, sir,’ returns the trooper. ‘Except on military compulsion, I am not a man of business. Among civilians I am what they call in Scotland a ne’er-do-weel. I have no head for papers, sir. I can stand any fire better than a fire of cross questions. I mentioned to Mr. Smallweed, only an hour or so ago, that when I come into things of this kind I feel as if I was being smothered. And that is my sensation,’ says Mr. George, looking round upon the company, ‘at the present moment.’
“为什么，长官，”士兵回答道。 “除非出于军事强制，我不是一个商人。在苏格兰，我是平民中的“无赖”。先生，我没有心思去找文件。我能忍受任何火，而不是交叉问题的火。大约一个小时前，我向斯莫威德先生提到，当我遇到这类事情时，我感觉自己好像被窒息了。 “这就是我的感觉，”乔治先生环视着公司说道，“此时此刻。”

With that, he takes three strides forward to replace the papers on the lawyer’s table and three strides backward to resume his former station, where he stands perfectly upright, now looking at the ground and now at the painted ceillhg, with his hands behind him as if to prevent himself from accepting any other document whatever.
说完，他向前三步放回律师桌上的文件，又向后三步恢复原来的姿势，笔直地站着，时而看着地面，时而看着彩绘的天花板，双手放在身后，如果为了阻止自己接受任何其他文件。

Under this provocation, Mr. Smallweed’s favourite adjective of disparagement is so close to his tongue that he begins the words ‘my dear friend’ with the monosyllable ‘brim,’ thus converting the possessive pronoun into brimmy and appearing to have an impediment in his speech. Once past this difficulty, however, he exhorts his dear friend in the tenderest manner not to be rash, but to do what so eminent a gentleman requires, and to do it with a good grace, confident that it must be unobjectionable as well as profitable. Mr. Tulkinghorn merely utters an occasional sentence, as, ‘You are the best judge of your own interest, sergeant.’ ‘Take care you do no harm by this.’ ‘Please yourself, please yourself.’ ‘If you know what you mean, that’s quite enough.’ These he utters with an appearance of perfect indifference as he looks over the papers on his table and prepares to write a letter.
在这种挑衅下，斯莫尔威德先生最喜欢的贬义形容词离他的舌头如此之近，以至于他在“我亲爱的朋友”这个词的开头加上了单音节的“brim”，从而将所有格代词变成了“brimmy”，并且在他的讲话中显得有障碍。 。然而，一旦克服了这个困难，他就会以最温柔的方式劝告他亲爱的朋友不要鲁莽，而是要做一位杰出的绅士所要求的事情，并且要以一种优雅的态度去做，相信这一定不会令人反感，而且有利可图。 。图金霍恩先生只是偶尔说一句，“中士，你是自己利益的最佳判断者。”“小心，不要因此造成伤害。”“取悦你自己，取悦你自己。”“如果你知道你要做什么意思是，这就够了。”他一边说着，一边满不在乎地看着桌上的文件，准备写信。

Mr. George looks distrustfully from the painted ceiling to the ground, from the ground to Mr. Smallweed, from Mr. Smallweed to Mr. Tulkinghorn, and from Mr. Tulkinghorn to the painted ceiling again, often in his perplexity changing the leg on which he rests.
乔治先生怀疑地从彩绘天花板看向地面，从地面看向斯莫威德先生，从斯莫威德先生看向图尔金霍恩先生，然后又从图金霍恩先生看向彩绘天花板，常常在困惑中变换着腿。他休息了。

‘I do assure you, sir,’ says Mr. George, ‘not to say it offensively, that between you and Mr. Smallweed here, I really am being smothered fifty times over. I really am, sir. I am not a match for you gentlemen. Will you allow me to ask why you want to see the captain’s hand, in the case that I could find any specimen of it?’
“我向你保证，先生，”乔治先生说，“这并不是冒犯性的，在你和斯莫威德先生之间，我真的被窒息了五十次。我真的是，先生。我不是你们这些先生们的对手。你能允许我问一下，如果我能找到任何样本的话，你为什么想看船长的手呢？

Mr. Tulkinghorn quietly shakes his head. ‘No. If you were a man of business, sergeant, you would not need to be informed that there are confidential reasons, very harmless in themselves, for many such wants in the profession to which I belong. But if you are afraid of doing any injury to Captain Hawdon, you may set your mind at rest about that.’
图金霍恩先生静静地摇摇头。 '不。如果你是一个商人，中士，你就不需要被告知，在我所属的行业中，有许多这样的需求，其中有一些保密的原因，这些原因本身是无害的。但如果你害怕对霍顿船长造成任何伤害，你可以放心。

‘Aye! He is dead, sir.’
‘是啊！他死了，先生。”

‘IS he?’ Mr. Tulkinghorn quietly sits down to write.
“是他吗？”图金霍恩先生静静地坐下来写。

‘Well, sir,’ says the trooper, looking into his hat after another disconcerted pause, ‘I am sorry not to have given you more satisfaction. If it would be any satisfaction to any one that I should be confirmed in my judgment that I would rather have nothing to do with this by a friend of mine who has a better head for business than I have, and who is an old soldier, I am willing to consult with him. I—I really am so completely smothered myself at present,’ says Mr. George, passing his hand hopelessly across his brow, ‘that I don’t know but what it might be a satisfaction to me.’
“好吧，先生，”士兵又困惑地停顿了一下，然后看着自己的帽子说道，“很抱歉没有让您更加满意。如果我的一位朋友能够证实我的判断，即我宁愿与这件事无关，他对商业的头脑比我更好，而且是一名老兵，如果这能让任何人感到满意的话，我愿意与他协商。我——我现在真的完全窒息了，”乔治先生绝望地用手抚过额头，说道，“我不知道这对我来说可能是一种满足。”

Mr. Smallweed, hearing that this authority is an old soldier, so strongly inculcates the expediency of the trooper’s taking counsel with him, and particularly informing him of its being a question of five guineas or more, that Mr. George engages to go and see him. Mr. Tulkinghorn says nothing either way.
斯莫尔韦德先生听说这位权威是一位老兵，便极力劝说士兵与他商量是有利的，特别是告诉他这是一个五基尼或更多的问题，乔治先生答应去看看他。不管怎样，图金霍恩先生什么也没说。

‘I’ll consult my friend, then, by your leave, sir,’ says the trooper, ‘and I’ll take the liberty of looking in again with the final answer in the course of the day. Mr. Smallweed, if you wish to be carried downstairs—‘
“那么，请允许，先生，我会咨询我的朋友，”士兵说，“我会在当天再次查看最终答案。”斯莫威德先生，如果你想被抱下楼——”

‘In a moment, my dear friend, in a moment. Will you first let me speak half a word with this gentleman in private?’
‘一会儿，我亲爱的朋友，一会儿。你能先让我和这位先生私下说半句话吗？

‘Certainly, sir. Don’t hurry yourself on my account.’ The trooper retires to a distant part of the room and resumes his curious inspection of the boxes, strong and otherwise.
'当然，先生。别为了我而着急。”巡警退到房间的一个远处，继续好奇地检查盒子，无论是坚固的还是其他的。

‘If I wasn’t as weak as a brimstone baby, sir,’ whispers Grandfather Smallweed, drawing the lawyer down to his level by the lapel of his coat and flashing some half-quenched green fire out of his angry eyes, ‘I’d tear the writing away from him. He’s got it buttoned in his breast. I saw him put it there. Judy saw him put it there. Speak up, you crabbed image for the sign of a walkingstick shop, and say you saw him put it there!’
“如果我不像一个硫磺婴儿那么虚弱，先生，”斯莫威德祖父低声说道，拉着律师的外套翻领，将律师拉到与他同高的位置，愤怒的眼睛里闪出了半熄灭的绿色火焰，“我” d 把字从他身上撕下来。他把它扣在胸前。我看到他把它放在那里。朱迪看到他把它放在那里。大声说出来，你在拐杖店的招牌上抓了个图片，还说你看到他把它放在那里了！

This vehement conjuration the old gentleman accompanies with such a thrust at his granddaughter that it is too much for his strength, and he slips away out of his chair, drawing Mr. Tulkinghorn with him, until he is arrested by Judy, and well shaken.
老绅士在这种强烈的咒语中伴随着对孙女的猛烈一击，以至于他的力气太大了，他从椅子上滑了下来，拉着图金霍恩先生，直到他被朱迪逮捕，浑身发抖。

‘Violence will not do for me, my friend,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn then remarks coolly.
“我的朋友，暴力对我不起作用，”图尔金霍恩先生随后冷静地说道。

‘No, no, I know, I know, sir. But it’s chafing and galling—it’s— it’s worse than your smattering chattering magpie of a grandmother,’ to the imperturbable Judy, who only looks at the fire, ‘to know he has got what’s wanted and won’t give it up. He, not to give it up! HE! A vagabond! But never mind, sir, never mind. At the most, he has only his own way for a little while. I have him periodically in a vice. I’ll twist him, sir. I’ll screw him, sir. If he won’t do it with a good grace, I’ll make him do it with a bad one, sir! Now, my dear Mr. George,’ says Grandfather Smallweed, winking at the lawyer hideously as he releases him, ‘I am ready for your kind assistance, my excellent friend!’
“不，不，我知道，我知道，先生。但这是令人恼火和恼怒的——这——比你那叽叽喳喳的祖母喜鹊更糟糕，”对于镇静的朱迪来说，她只看着火，“知道他已经得到了想要的东西，而且不会放弃。他，不放弃！他！一个流浪汉！但没关系，先生，没关系。至多，他也只能随心所欲地走一小会儿。我时常让他陷入恶习。我会扭转他，先生。我会操他的，先生。如果他不以善意的方式去做，我就让他以坏的方式去做，先生！现在，我亲爱的乔治先生，”斯莫威德祖父放开律师时，一边可怕地对他眨了眨眼睛，“我已经准备好接受你的帮助了，我的好朋友！”

Mr. Tulkinghorn, with some shadowy sign of amusement manifesting itself through his self-possession, stands on the hearth-rug with his back to the fire, watching the disappearance of Mr. Smallweed and acknowledging the trooper’s parting salute with one slight nod.
图金霍恩先生的镇静中流露出一丝隐隐的乐趣，他站在炉边地毯上，背对着炉火，看着斯莫威德先生消失，并轻轻点头向士兵告别敬礼。

It is more difficult to get rid of the old gentleman, Mr. George finds, than to bear a hand in carrying him downstairs, for when he is replaced in his conveyance, he is so loquacious on the subject of the guineas and retains such an affectionate hold of his button —having, in truth, a secret longing to rip his coat open and rob him—that some degree of force is necessary on the trooper’s part to effect a separation. It is accomplished at last, and he proceeds alone in quest of his adviser.
乔治先生发现，摆脱这位老绅士比扶着他下楼更困难，因为当他被替换上车时，他对基尼的话题是如此滔滔不绝，并且保留着这样的态度。深情地抓住他的纽扣——事实上，他暗自渴望撕开他的外套并抢劫他——士兵需要一定程度的力量才能实现分离。事情终于完成了，他独自一人前去寻找他的顾问。

By the cloisterly Temple, and by Whitefriars (there, not without a glance at Hanging-Sword Alley, which would seem to be something in his way), and by Blackfriars Bridge, and Blackfriars Road, Mr. George sedately marches to a street of little shops lying somewhere in that ganglion of roads from Kent and Surrey, and of streets from the bridges of London, centring in the far-famed elephant who has lost his castle formed of a thousand four-horse coaches to a stronger iron monster than he, ready to chop him into mince-meat any day he dares. To one of the little shops in this street, which is a musician’s shop, having a few fiddles in the window, and some Pan’s pipes and a tambourine, and a triangle, and certain elongated scraps of music, Mr. George directs his massive tread. And halting at a few paces from it, as he sees a soldierly looking woman, with her outer skirts tucked up, come forth with a small wooden tub, and in that tub commence a-whisking and a-splashing on the margin of the pavement, Mr. George says to himself, ‘She’s as usual, washing greens. I never saw her, except upon a baggage-waggon, when she wasn’t washing greens!’
穿过修道院般的圣殿，经过怀特修士（在那里，他不时瞥了一眼悬剑巷，这似乎是他的阻碍），经过黑衣修士桥和黑衣修士路，乔治先生平静地走向一条街道。小商店位于从肯特郡和萨里郡到伦敦桥梁的街道的某个地方，以著名的大象为中心，它已经把由一千辆四马车组成的城堡丢给了一个比他更强大的铁怪物。随时准备把他砍成肉末。乔治先生迈着大步，走向这条街上的一家小商店，那是一家音乐家商店，橱窗里有几把小提琴、一些潘氏管子、一个手鼓、一个三角钢琴和一些拉长的音乐片段。 。他在离它几步远的地方停下来，看到一个士兵般的女人，她的外裙卷起来，拿着一个小木桶走出来，在木桶里开始在人行道边缘上“拂尘”和“泼水”。 ”，乔治先生自言自语道，“她像往常一样，在洗蔬菜。我从来没有见过她，除了在行李车上，当她不洗蔬菜的时候！

The subject of this reflection is at all events so occupied in washing greens at present that she remains unsuspicious of Mr. George’s approach until, lifting up herself and her tub together when she has poured the water off into the gutter, she finds him standing near her. Her reception of him is not flattering.
无论如何，这次反思的主题目前正忙于清洗蔬菜，以至于她对乔治先生的到来仍然没有怀疑，直到她把水倒进排水沟后，一起抬起自己和浴缸，发现乔治先生站在附近她。她对他的接待并不讨人喜欢。

‘George, I never see you but I wish you was a hundred mile away!’
“乔治，我从来没有见过你，但我希望你在一百英里之外！”

The trooper, without remarking on this welcome, follows into the musical-instrument shop, where the lady places her tub of greens upon the counter, and having shaken hands with him, rests her arms upon it.
士兵没有对这种欢迎表示欢迎，跟着走进了乐器店，那位女士把她的一桶蔬菜放在柜台上，与他握手后，把手臂放在上面。

‘I never,’ she says, ‘George, consider Matthew Bagnet safe a minute when you’re near him. You are that resfless and that roving—‘
“我从来没有，”她说，“乔治，当你靠近马修·巴格尼特时，他会认为他是安全的。”你就是那么焦躁、那么游荡——”

‘Yes! I know I am, Mrs. Bagnet. I know I am.’
'是的！我知道我是，巴格内特夫人。我知道我是。'

‘You know you are!’ says Mrs. Bagnet. ‘What’s the use of that? WHY are you?’
“你知道你是！”巴格内特夫人说。 ‘那有什么用？你为什么？'

‘The nature of the animal, I suppose,’ returns the trooper goodhumouredly.
“我想，这就是动物的本性。”士兵幽默地回答道。

‘Ah!’ cries Mrs. Bagnet, something shrilly. ‘But what satisfaction will the nature of the animal be to me when the animal shall have tempted my Mat away from the musical business to New Zealand or Australey?’
“啊！”巴格内特太太尖声叫道。 “但是，当动物诱惑我的马特离开音乐事业去新西兰或澳大利亚时，动物的天性会给我带来什么满足呢？”

Mrs. Bagnet is not at all an ill-looking woman. Rather largeboned, a little coarse in the grain, and freckled by the sun and wind which have tanned her hair upon the forehead, but healthy, wholesome, and bright-eyed. A strong, busy, active, honest-faced woman of from forty-five to fifty. Clean, hardy, and so economically dressed (though substantially) that the only article of ornament of which she stands possessed appear’s to be her wedding-ring, around which her finger has grown to be so large since it was put on that it will never come off again until it shall mingle with Mrs. Bagnet’s dust.
巴格内特太太一点也不难看。她的骨骼相当粗大，纹理有些粗糙，额头上的头发被阳光和风晒黑了，脸上布满了雀斑，但她很健康，身体健康，眼睛明亮。一位坚强、忙碌、活跃、诚实的女性，年龄在四十五岁到五十岁之间。干净、耐操，穿着也很经济（虽然很简朴），她唯一拥有的装饰品似乎就是她的结婚戒指，自从戴上戒指以来，她的手指已经变得如此之大，以至于永远不会再戴上。再次脱落，直到它与巴格内特太太的灰尘混合在一起。

‘Mrs. Bagnet,’ says the trooper, ‘I am on my parole with you. Mat will get no harm from me. You may trust me so far.’
'太太。巴格内特，”士兵说，“我和你一起假释。马特不会受到我的伤害。到目前为止你可以相信我。

‘Well, I think I may. But the very looks of you are unsettling,’ Mrs. Bagnet rejoins. ‘Ah, George, George! If you had only settled down and married Joe Pouch’s widow when he died in North America, SHE’D have combed your hair for you.’
” “嗯，我想我可以。但你的样子就令人不安，”巴格内特夫人反驳道。 ‘啊，乔治，乔治！如果乔·普奇在北美去世时你才安定下来并娶了他的遗孀，她就会为你梳理头发。

‘It was a chance for me, certainly,’ returns the trooper half laughingly, half seriously, ‘but I shall never settle down into a respectable man now. Joe Pouch’s widow might have done me good— there was something in her, and something of her—but I couldn’t make up my mind to it. If I had had the luck to meet with such a wife as Mat found!’
“当然，这对我来说是一个机会，”士兵半笑半认真地回答道，“但我现在永远不会成为一个受人尊敬的人了。”乔·普奇的遗孀也许对我有好处——她身上有某种东西，她身上有某种东西——但我无法下定决心。如果我有幸遇到麦特这样的妻子就好了！

Mrs. Bagnet, who seems in a virtuous way to be under little reserve with a good sort of fellow, but to be another good sort of fellow herself for that matter, receives this compliment by flicking Mr. George in the face with a head of greens and taking her tub into the little room behind the shop.
巴格内特太太看上去很善良，对一个好人没有什么保留，但在这件事上她自己也是一个好人，她用头轻弹乔治先生的脸来接受这一赞美。蔬菜，然后把她的浴缸带到商店后面的小房间里。

‘Why, Quebec, my poppet,’ says George, following, on invitation, into that department. ‘And little Malta, too! Come and kiss your Bluffy!’
“为什么，魁北克，我的宝贝，”乔治应邀进入那个部门说道。 “还有小马耳他！”来亲吻你的Bluffy吧！

These young ladies—not supposed to have been actually christened by the names applied to them, though always so called in the family from the places of their birth in barracks—are respectively employed on three-legged stools, the younger (some five or six years old) in learning her letters out of a penny primer, the elder (eight or nine perhaps) in teaching her and sewing with great assiduity. Both hail Mr. George with acclamations as an old friend and after some kissing and romping plant their stools beside him.
这些年轻女士——实际上不应该按照她们的名字来命名，尽管在家里总是根据她们在军营中的出生地来称呼——分别坐在三足凳子上，年纪较小的（大约有五六岁）几岁）用便士入门书学习她的字母，年长者（也许八九岁）非常刻苦地教她缝纫。两人欢呼雀跃地向乔治先生致敬，称其为老朋友，在亲吻和嬉戏一番后，他们把凳子放在他旁边。

‘And how’s young Woolwich?’ says Mr. George.
“年轻的伍尔维奇怎么样？”乔治先生说。

‘Ah! There now!’ cries Mrs. Bagnet, turning about from her saucepans (for she is cooking dinner) with a bright flush on her face. ‘Would you believe it? Got an engagement at the theayter, with his father, to play the fife in a military piece.’
'啊！现在！”巴格内特太太喊道，她从平底锅里转过身来（因为她正在做晚饭），脸上泛着红晕。 ‘你相信吗？和他的父亲在剧院约好，在一部军事作品中吹奏横笛。

‘Well done, my godson!’ cries Mr. George, slapping his thigh.
“干得好，我的教子！”乔治先生拍着大腿喊道。

‘I believe you!’ says Mrs. Bagnet. ‘He’s a Briton. That’s what Woolwich is. A Briton!’
“我相信你！”巴格内特夫人说。 “他是英国人。这就是伍尔维奇。一个英国人！’

‘And Mat blows away at his bassoon, and you’re respectable civilians one and all,’ says Mr. George. ‘Family people. Children growing up. Mat’s old mother in Scotland, and your old father somewhere else, corresponded with, and helped a little, and—well, well! To be sure, I don’t know why I shouldn’t be wished a hundred mile away, for I have not much to do with all this!’
“马特吹着他的巴松管，你们都是受人尊敬的平民，”乔治先生说。 ‘家人。孩子们长大了。麦特在苏格兰的老母亲，和你在其他地方的老父亲，互相通信，也提供了一些帮助，而且——好吧，好吧！可以肯定的是，我不知道为什么我不应该在一百英里之外被祝福，因为我与这一切没有多大关系！

Mr. George is becoming thoughtful, sitting before the fire in the whitewashed room, which has a sanded floor and a barrack smell and contains nothing superfluous and has not a visible speck of dirt or dust in it, from the faces of Quebec and Malta to the bright tin pots and pannikins upon the dresser shelves—Mr. George is becoming thoughtful, sitting here while Mrs. Bagnet is busy, when Mr. Bagnet and young Woolwich opportunely come home. Mr. Bagnet is an exartilleryman, tall and upright, with shaggy eyebrows and whiskers like the fibres of a coco-nut, not a hair upon his head, and a torrid complexion. His voice, short, deep, and resonant, is not at all unlike the tones of the instrument to which he is devoted. Indeed there may be generally observed in him an unbending, unyielding, brass-bound air, as if he were himself the bassoon of the human orchestra. Young Woolwich is the type and model of a young drummer.
乔治先生坐在粉刷成白色的房间里的炉火前，陷入了沉思。房间里铺着沙子地板，散发着营房的味道，没有任何多余的东西，里面没有任何可见的污垢或灰尘，从魁北克和马耳他的脸上到梳妆台架上明亮的锡锅和煎锅——先生。当巴格尼特太太忙着的时候，乔治正变得若有所思，这时巴格尼特先生和年轻的伍尔维奇正好回家了。巴格内特先生是一名退伍军人，身材高大挺拔，眉毛浓密，胡须像椰子纤维一样，头上一根头发也没有，肤色火热。他的声音短促、低沉、洪亮，与他所钟爱的乐器的音色完全不同。事实上，在他身上通常可以看到一种不屈不挠、不屈不挠、铜管束缚的气质，就好像他自己就是人类管弦乐队的巴松管一样。 Young Woolwich 是年轻鼓手的类型和典范。

Both father and son salute the trooper heartily. He saying, in due season, that he has come to advise with Mr. Bagnet, Mr. Bagnet hospitably declares that he will hear of no business until after dinner and that his friend shall not partake of his counsel without first partaking of boiled pork and greens. The trooper yielding to this invitation, he and Mr. Bagnet, not to embarrass the domestic preparations, go forth to take a turn up and down the little street, which they promenade with measured tread and folded arms, as if it were a rampart.
父子俩都向战士们致以衷心的敬礼。他说，在适当的时候，他来向巴格内特先生提供建议，巴格内特先生热情地宣布，晚饭后他才会听到任何消息，并且他的朋友在没有先吃煮猪肉和青菜。士兵接受了这个邀请，他和巴格内特先生为了不让家里的准备工作难堪，出去在小街上来回转了一圈，他们以有节奏的步伐和交叉双臂漫步在这条街上，仿佛它是一个壁垒。

‘George,’ says Mr. Bagnet. ‘You know me. It’s my old girl that advises. She has the head. But I never own to it before her. Discipline must be maintained. Wait till the greens is off her mind. Then we’ll consult. Whatever the old girl says, do—do it!’
“乔治，”巴格内特先生说。 '你了解我。是我的老女儿给我建议的。她有头。但我从来没有在她面前承认过这一点。必须维持纪律。等到她不再关心果岭了。那我们就咨询一下。不管老姑娘说什么，就做——做！”

‘I intend to, Mat,’ replies the other. ‘I would sooner take her opinion than that of a college.’
“我打算这么做，马特，”另一个回答道。 “我更愿意接受她的意见，而不是大学的意见。”

‘College,’ returns Mr. Bagnet in short sentences, bassoon-like. ‘What college could you leave—in another quarter of the world— with nothing but a grey cloak and an umbrella—to make its way home to Europe? The old girl would do it to-morrow. Did it once!’
“学院，”巴格内特先生用巴松管般的简短句子回答道。 “在世界的另一个角落，你能离开哪一所大学，只身着一件灰色斗篷和一把雨伞，回到欧洲的家呢？”老姑娘明天就会做。做过一次！

‘You are right,’ says Mr. George.
“你是对的，”乔治先生说。

‘What college,’ pursues Bagnet, ‘could you set up in life—with two penn’orth of white lime—a penn’orth of fuller’s earth—a ha’porth of sand—and the rest of the change out of sixpence in money? That’s what the old girl started on. In the present business.’
“什么大学，”巴格内特追问，“你能用两便士的白石灰、一便士的漂白土、一哈波斯的沙子，以及剩下的六便士零钱，在生活中建立一所什么大学吗？”钱？老姑娘就是这么开始的。在目前的业务中。

‘I am rejoiced to hear it’s thriving, Mat.’
“我很高兴听到它正在蓬勃发展，马特。”

‘The old girl,’ says Mr. Bagnet, acquiescing, ‘saves. Has a stocking somewhere. With money in it. I never saw it. But I know she’s got it. Wait till the greens is off her mind. Then she’ll set you up.’
“老姑娘，”巴格内特先生默许道，“会救人。”某处有一只袜子。里面有钱。我从来没有见过它。但我知道她明白了。等到她不再关心果岭了。然后她就会给你安排。

‘She is a treasure!’ exclaims Mr. George.
“她真是个宝藏！”乔治先生惊叹道。

‘She’s more. But I never own to it before her. Discipline must be maintained. It was the old girl that brought out my musical abilities. I should have been in the artillery now but for the old girl. Six years I hammered at the fiddle. Ten at the flute. The old girl said it wouldn’t do; intention good, but want of flexibility; try the bassoon. The old girl borrowed a bassoon from the bandmaster of the Rifle Regiment. I practised in the trenches. Got on, got another, get a living by it!’
‘她更多了。但我从来没有在她面前承认过这一点。必须维持纪律。正是那个老女孩激发了我的音乐才能。如果没有那个老姑娘，我现在应该在炮兵营里了。我拉小提琴六年了。长笛十。老姑娘说不行，不行。意图良好，但缺乏灵活性；尝试巴松管。老姑娘向步枪团的乐队指挥借了一支巴松管。我在战壕里练习过。继续前进，再找一个，靠它谋生！

George remarks that she looks as fresh as a rose and as sound as an apple.
乔治说她看起来像玫瑰一样清新，像苹果一样健全。

‘The old girl,’ says Mr. Bagnet in reply, ‘is a thoroughly fine woman. Consequently she is like a thoroughly fine day. Gets finer as she gets on. I never saw the old girl’s equal. But I never own to it before her. Discipline must be maintained!’
“这个老姑娘，”巴格内特先生回答说，“是一个非常好的女人。”因此她就像是一个非常美好的日子。随着她的进步，她变得越来越好。我从来没有见过能与老女孩匹敌的人。但我从来没有在她面前承认过这一点。必须维持纪律！”

Proceeding to converse on indifferent matters, they walk up and down the little street, keeping step and time, until summoned by Quebec and Malta to do justice to the pork and greens, over which Mrs. Bagnet, like a military chaplain, says a short grace. In the distribution of these comestibles, as in every other household duty, Mrs. Bagnet developes an exact system, sitting with every dish before her, allotting to every portion of pork its own portion of pot-liquor, greens, potatoes, and even mustard, and serving it out complete. Having likewise served out the beer from a can and thus supplied the mess with all things necessary, Mrs. Bagnet proceeds to satisfy her own hunger, which is in a healthy state. The kit of the mess, if the table furniture may be so denominated, is chiefly composed of utensils of horn and tin that have done duty in several parts of the world. Young Woolwich’s knife, in particular, which is of the oyster kind, with the additional feature of a strong shutting-up movement which frequently balks the appetite of that young musician, is mentioned as having gone in various hands the complete round of foreign service.
他们继续谈论无关紧要的事情，在小街上走来走去，保持步伐和时间，直到魁北克和马耳他召唤来公正地对待猪肉和蔬菜，对此巴格尼特夫人像一位军事牧师一样简短地说了一句优雅。在分配这些食物时，就像处理其他家务一样，巴格内特夫人制定了一套精确的系统，她面前摆着每道菜，为每份猪肉分配自己的一份锅酒、蔬菜、土豆，甚至芥末。 ，并完成服务。同样，巴格尼特夫人也从罐头里倒出了啤酒，为餐厅提供了所有必需的东西，然后继续满足她自己的饥饿感，她的饥饿感是健康的。如果餐桌家具也可以这样命名的话，那么餐具的组成部分主要是用牛角和锡制成的器具，这些器具在世界多个地方都曾使用过。尤其是年轻的伍尔维奇的那把牡蛎刀，具有强烈的闭嘴动作的附加功能，经常阻碍这位年轻音乐家的胃口，据说在整个外交服务过程中，它都在不同的手中。

The dinner done, Mrs. Bagnet, assisted by the younger branches (who polish their own cups and platters, knives and forks), makes all the dinner garniture shine as brightly as before and puts it all away, first sweeping the hearth, to the end that Mr. Bagnet and the visitor may not be retarded in the smoking of their pipes. These household cares involve much pattening and counter-pattening in the backyard and considerable use of a pail, which is finally so happy as to assist in the ablutions of Mrs. Bagnet herself. That old girl reappearing by and by, quite fresh, and sitting down to her needlework, then and only then—the greens being only then to be considered as entirely off her mind—Mr. Bagnet requests the trooper to state his case.
晚饭做好了，巴格内特夫人，在年轻的枝干（他们擦亮自己的杯子和盘子、刀叉）的协助下，让所有的晚餐用具都像以前一样闪闪发光，然后把它们全部收起来，先把炉灶打扫干净，然后放到厨房里。最终巴格内特先生和来访者不会因抽烟斗而受到阻碍。这些家庭护理工作包括在后院进行大量的打理和反打理，并大量使用水桶，最后，水桶很乐意帮助巴格内特夫人自己洗澡。那个老姑娘渐渐地又出现了，神采奕奕，坐下来做针线活，直到那时——只有到了那时，她才被认为完全不关心绿色——先生。巴格内特要求士兵陈述他的情况。

This Mr. George does with great discretion, appearing to address himself to Mr. Bagnet, but having an eye solely on the old girl all the time, as Bagnet has himself. She, equally discreet, busies herself with her needlework. The case fully stated, Mr. Bagnet resorts to his standard artifice for the maintenance of discipline.
乔治先生这样做时非常谨慎，似乎是在向巴格内特先生讲话，但他的目光始终只集中在老女孩身上，就像巴格内特本人一样。她也同样谨慎，忙着做针线活。案件充分表明，巴格内特先生运用他的标准技巧来维持纪律。

‘That’s the whole of it, is it, George?’ says he.
“这就是全部，是吗，乔治？”他说。

‘That’s the whole of it.’
“这就是全部。”

‘You act according to my opinion?’
“你按照我的意见行事？”

‘I shall be guided,’ replies George, ‘entirely by it.’
“我将完全受到它的指导，”乔治回答道。

‘Old girl,’ says Mr. Bagnet, ‘give him my opinion. You know it. Tell him what it is.’
“老姑娘，”巴格内特先生说，“告诉他我的意见。”你知道的。告诉他那是什么。

It is that he cannot have too little to do with people who are too deep for him and cannot be too careful of interference with matters he does not understand—that the plain rule is to do nothing in the dark, to be a party to nothing underhanded or mysterious, and never to put his foot where he cannot see the ground. This, in effect, is Mr. Bagnet’s opinion, as delivered through the old girl, and it so relieves Mr. George’s mind by confirming his own opinion and banishing his doubts that he composes himself to smoke another pipe on that exceptional occasion and to have a talk over old times with the whole Bagnet family, according to their various ranges of experience.
就是对那些对他来说太深的人来往不能太少，对他不了解的事情干涉不能太小心——最简单的规则就是不做任何事，不参与任何事情。卑鄙或神秘，永远不会把脚放在他看不到地面的地方。事实上，这就是巴格内特先生的意见，是通过老姑娘传达的，乔治先生确认了自己的意见，消除了疑虑，这让他的心情大为放松，他在这个特殊的场合又吸了一根烟斗，然后根据巴格内特家族的不同经验，与他们一起谈论过去的时光。

Through these means it comes to pass that Mr. George does not again rise to his full height in that parlour until the time is drawing on when the bassoon and fife are expected by a British public at the theatre; and as it takes time even then for Mr. George, in his domestic character of Bluffy, to take leave of Quebec and Malta and insinuate a sponsorial shilling into the pocket of his godson with felicitations on his success in life, it is dark when Mr. George again turns his face towards Lincoln’s Inn Fields.
通过这些手段，乔治先生在客厅里再也没有站起来，直到时间临近，英国公众在剧院等待巴松管和横笛的演奏。即使在那时，乔治先生也需要时间，以他家庭中的布拉夫角色，告别魁北克和马耳他，并暗示将赞助先令塞进他教子的口袋，祝贺他人生的成功，当乔治先生离开时，天已经黑了。乔治再次把脸转向林肯客栈球场。

‘A family home,’ he ruminates as he marches along, ‘however small it is, makes a man like me look lonely. But it’s well I never made that evolution of matrimony. I shouldn’t have been fit for it. I am such a vagabond still, even at my present time of life, that I couldn’t hold to the gallery a month together if it was a regular pursuit or if I didn’t camp there, gipsy fashion. Come! I disgrace nobody and cumber nobody; that’s something. I have not done that for many a long year!’
“一个家庭住宅，”他边走边沉思着，“无论它多么小，都会让像我这样的人显得孤独。”但还好我从未经历过婚姻的演变。我不应该适合这个。即使在我现在的生活中，我仍然是一个流浪汉，如果这是一种常规追求，或者如果我不在那里扎营，吉普赛时尚，我就无法在画廊待一个月。来！我不辱没任何人，也不妨碍任何人；就是这样。我已经很多年没有这样做了！

So he whistles it off and marches on.
于是他吹口哨继续前进。

Arrived in Lincoln’s Inn Fields and mounting Mr. Tulkinghorn’s stair, he finds the outer door closed and the chambers shut, but the trooper not knowing much about outer doors, and the staircase being dark besides, he is yet fumbling and groping about, hoping to discover a bell-handle or to open the door for himself, when Mr. Tulkinghorn comes up the stairs (quietly, of course) and angrily asks, ‘Who is that? What are you doing there?’
到达林肯客栈场，登上图金霍恩先生的楼梯，他发现外门关着，房间也关着，但士兵对外门不太了解，而且楼梯又黑，他还在摸索和摸索，希望能当图金霍恩先生走上楼梯（当然是安静地）并愤怒地问道：“那是谁？”时，他发现了一个门铃把手，或者自己开门。你在那做什么？'

‘I ask your pardon, sir. It’s George. The sergeant.’
“请您原谅，先生。是乔治。中士。

‘And couldn’t George, the sergeant, see that my door was locked?’
“乔治中士难道没看到我的门锁着吗？”

‘Why, no, sir, I couldn’t. At any rate, I didn’t,’ says the trooper, rather nettled.
“为什么，不，先生，我不能。无论如何，我没有，”士兵相当恼火地说。

‘Have you changed your mind? Or are you in the same mind?’ Mr. Tulkinghorn demands. But he knows well enough at a glance.
‘你改变主意了吗？或者你也有同样的想法？”图金霍恩先生问道。但他一看就知道了。

‘In the same mind, sir.’
“同样的想法，先生。”

‘I thought so. That’s sufficient. You can go. So you are the man,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, opening his door with the key, ‘in whose hiding-place Mr. Gridley was found?’
'我是这么想的。这就足够了。你可以走了。 “这么说，你就是那个人，”塔尔金霍恩先生用钥匙打开门说道，“格里德利先生是在他的藏身之处被发现的？”

‘Yes, I AM the man,’ says the trooper, stopping two or three stairs down. ‘What then, sir?’
“是的，我就是那个人，”警察说着，停了下来，下了两三级楼梯。 “那怎么办，先生？”

‘What then? I don’t like your associates. You should not have seen the inside of my door this morning if I had thought of your being that man. Gridley? A threatening, murderous, dangerous fellow.’
'然后怎样呢？我不喜欢你的同事。如果我想到你就是那个人，你今天早上就不会看到我的门里面了。格里德利？一个具有威胁性、凶残、危险的家伙。”

With these words, spoken in an unusually high tone for him, the lawyer goes into his rooms and shuts the door with a thundering noise.
律师以对他而言异常高的语气说出这句话，然后走进自己的房间，并以雷鸣般的声音关上门。

Mr. George takes his dismissal in great dudgeon, the greater because a clerk coming up the stairs has heard the last words of all and evidently applies them to him. ‘A pretty character to bear,’ the trooper growls with a hasty oath as he strides downstairs. ‘A threatening, murderous, dangerous fellow!’ And looking up, he sees the clerk looking down at him and marking him as he passes a lamp. This so intensifies his dudgeon that for five minutes he is in an ill humour. But he whistles that off like the rest of it and marches home to the shooting gallery.
乔治先生对他的解雇感到非常愤怒，更严重的是，因为上楼的一名职员听到了所有人的最后一句话，并且显然将它们应用到了他身上。 “真是一个可爱的性格，”士兵一边大步走下楼，一边匆匆发誓，咆哮道。 “一个具有威胁性、凶残、危险的家伙！”他抬起头，看到店员低头看着他，并在他经过一盏灯时对他做了标记。这让他更加愤怒，有五分钟的时间他心情不好。但他像其他事情一样吹了口哨，然后大步走回射击场。

CHAPTER XXVIII
第二十八章


The Ironmaster
钢铁大师

Sir Leicester Dedlock has got the better, for the time being, of the family gout and is once more, in a literal no less than in a figurative point of view, upon his legs. He is at his place in Lincolnshire; but the waters are out again on the low-lying grounds, and the cold and damp steal into Chesney Wold, though well defended, and eke into Sir Leicester’s bones. The blazing fires of faggot and coal—Dedlock timber and antediluvian forest—that blaze upon the broad wide hearths and wink in the twilight on the frowning woods, sullen to see how trees are sacrificed, do not exclude the enemy. The hot-water pipes that trail themselves all over the house, the cushioned doors and windows, and the screens and curtains fail to supply the fires’ deficiencies and to satisfy Sir Leicester’s need. Hence the fashionable intelligence proclaims one morning to the listening earth that Lady Dedlock is expected shortly to return to town for a few weeks.
莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士的家族痛风暂时痊愈了，无论从字面上还是从比喻的角度来看，他再次站起来了。他在林肯郡他的住处；但低洼处的水又涨了，寒冷和潮湿的天气悄悄侵入了切斯尼沃尔德，尽管防御严密，并渗入莱斯特爵士的骨头里。柴草和煤的熊熊火焰——戴德洛克木材和古老的森林——在宽阔的壁炉上熊熊燃烧，在暮色中在皱着眉头的树林里闪烁，阴沉地看着树木如何被牺牲，并没有排除敌人。遍布整个房子的热水管、带软垫的门窗、屏风和窗帘都无法弥补火灾的不足，也无法满足莱斯特爵士的需要。因此，时尚情报界在一天早上向全世界的听众宣布，戴德洛克夫人预计很快将返回城里几周。

It is a melancholy truth that even great men have their poor relations. Indeed great men have often more than their fair share of poor relations, inasmuch as very red blood of the superior quality, like inferior blood unlawfully shed, WILL cry aloud and WILL be heard. Sir Leicester’s cousins, in the remotest degree, are so many murders in the respect that they ‘will out.’ Among whom there are cousins who are so poor that one might almost dare to think it would have been the happier for them never to have been plated links upon the Dedlock chain of gold, but to have been made of common iron at first and done base service.
即使是伟人也有穷亲戚，这是一个令人悲伤的事实。事实上，伟人往往拥有比他们应有的贫穷关系，因为高品质的红色血液，就像非法流淌的劣等血液一样，会大声哭泣，会被听到。莱斯特爵士的表兄弟，在最遥远的程度上，是如此多的谋杀者，以至于他们“会退出”。其中有一些表兄弟是如此贫穷，以至于人们几乎敢于认为他们永远不会更幸福。链节被镀在 Dedlock 金链上，但最初是用普通铁制成的，并完成了基础服务。

Service, however (with a few limited reservations, genteel but not profitable), they may not do, being of the Dedlock dignity. So they visit their richer cousins, and get into debt when they can, and live but shabbily when they can’t, and find—the women no husbands, and the men no wives—and ride in borrowed carriages, and sit at feasts that are never of their own making, and so go through high life. The rich family sum has been divided by so many figures, and they are the something over that nobody knows what to do with.
然而，服务（有一些有限的保留，礼貌但不盈利），他们可能不会这样做，因为戴德洛克的尊严。于是，他们拜访富有的表兄弟，有能力的时候就负债，无能力的时候就过着简陋的生活，发现——女人没有丈夫，男人没有妻子——乘坐借来的马车，参加盛宴。从来都不是他们自己创造的，所以他们会经历高尚的生活。富家的钱被分割了那么多数字，已经是无人知道如何处理的东西了。

Everybody on Sir Leicester Dedlock’s side of the question and of his way of thinking would appear to be his cousin more or less. From my Lord Boodle, through the Duke of Foodle, down to Noodle, Sir Leicester, like a glorious spider, stretches his threads of relationship. But while he is stately in the cousinship of the Everybodys, he is a kind and generous man, according to his dignified way, in the cousinship of the Nobodys; and at the present time, in despite of the damp, he stays out the visit of several such cousins at Chesney Wold with the constancy of a martyr.
在问题和思维方式上站在莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士一边的每个人似乎或多或少都是他的表弟。从布德尔勋爵，到福德尔公爵，再到面条，莱斯特爵士就像一只光荣的蜘蛛，伸展着他的关系之线。但是，虽然他在“大家”的表兄弟中表现得很庄严，但从他庄严的方式来看，在“无名之辈”的表兄弟中，他是一个善良而慷慨的人。目前，尽管天气潮湿，他仍以烈士般的毅力拒绝拜访切斯尼沃尔德的几位表兄弟。

Of these, foremost in the front rank stands Volumnia Dedlock, a young lady (of sixty) who is doubly highly related, having the honour to be a poor relation, by the mother’s side, to another great family. Miss Volumnia, displaying in early life a pretty talent for cutting ornaments out of coloured paper, and also for singing to the guitar in the Spanish tongue, and propounding French conundrums in country houses, passed the twenty years of her existence between twenty and forty in a sufficiently agreeable manner. Lapsing then out of date and being considered to bore mankind by her vocal performances in the Spanish language, she retired to Bath, where she lives slenderly on an annual present from Sir Leicester and whence she makes occasional resurrections in the country houses of her cousins. She has an extensive acquaintance at Bath among appalling old gentlemen with thin legs and nankeen trousers, and is of high standing in that dreary city. But she is a little dreaded elsewhere in consequence of an indiscreet profusion in the article of rouge and persistency in an obsolete pearl necklace like a rosary of little bird’s-eggs.
其中，排在最前面的是沃伦尼娅·戴德洛克（Volumnia Dedlock），一位年轻的女士（六十岁），她有双重血统，有幸成为另一个大家庭的穷亲戚。沃伦尼亚小姐早年就表现出了用彩纸剪出装饰品的天赋，还擅长用西班牙语弹吉他，在乡间别墅里提出法语难题，她在二十岁到四十岁之间度过了她存在的二十年。一种足够令人愉快的方式。当时她已经过时了，人们认为她的西班牙语表演让人类感到厌烦，她退休到巴斯，靠莱斯特爵士每年的礼物过着拮据的生活，从那里她偶尔会在她表兄弟的乡间别墅里复活。她在巴斯结识了很多腿细、裤子粗的可怕老绅士，在这座沉闷的城市里享有很高的地位。但她在其他地方有点令人畏惧，因为她不顾一切地大量使用胭脂，并且坚持佩戴一条像小鸟蛋念珠一样的过时珍珠项链。

In any country in a wholesome state, Volumnia would be a clear case for the pension list. Efforts have been made to get her on it, and when William Buffy came in, it was fully expected that her name would be put down for a couple of hundred a year. But William Buffy somehow discovered, contrary to all expectation, that these were not the times when it could be done, and this was the first clear indication Sir Leicester Dedlock had conveyed to him that the country was going to pieces.
在任何一个健康状况良好的国家，沃伦尼亚都是养老金名单上的一个明显例子。人们已经做出了努力让她加入，当威廉·巴菲进来时，人们完全预料到她的名字每年会被记下几百美元。但威廉·巴菲不知何故发现，与所有人的预期相反，现在不是可以做到这一点的时候，这是莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士向他传达的第一个明确的迹象，即国家正在分崩离析。

There is likewise the Honourable Bob Stables, who can make warm mashes with the skill of a veterinary surgeon and is a better shot than most gamekeepers. He has been for some time particularly desirous to serve his country in a post of good emoluments, unaccompanied by any trouble or responsibility. In a wellregulated body politic this natural desire on the part of a spirited young gentleman so highly connected would be speedily recognized, but somehow William Buffy found when he came in that these were not times in which he could manage that little matter either, and this was the second indication Sir Leicester Dedlock had conveyed to him that the country was going to pieces.
同样还有尊敬的鲍勃·斯泰布尔斯，他可以用兽医的技术制作热土豆泥，而且比大多数猎场看守人的射击技术都更好。一段时间以来，他一直特别渴望担任一个高薪职位为国家服务，不伴随任何麻烦或责任。在一个管理良好的政体中，一位精力充沛的年轻绅士如此高度的人脉关系，这种自然的愿望很快就会被认识到，但不知怎的，威廉·巴菲进来后发现，现在也不是他能处理那件小事的时候，而这个这是莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士向他传达的第二个迹象，表明这个国家正在分崩离析。

The rest of the cousins are ladies and gentlemen of various ages and capacities, the major part amiable and sensible and likely to have done well enough in life if they could have overcome their cousinship; as it is, they are almost all a little worsted by it, and lounge in purposeless and listless paths, and seem to be quite as much at a loss how to dispose of themselves as anybody else can be how to dispose of them.
其余的堂兄弟姐妹都是不同年龄和能力的女士和先生，其中大部分和蔼可亲、通情达理，如果他们能够克服表兄弟姐妹的关系，他们的生活可能会做得很好。事实上，他们几乎都被它打败了，在漫无目的和无精打采的道路上闲逛，似乎像其他人一样不知如何处置自己。

In this society, and where not, my Lady Dedlock reigns supreme. Beautiful, elegant, accomplished, and powerful in her little world (for the world of fashion does not stretch ALL the way from pole to pole), her influence in Sir Leicester’s house, however haughty and indifferent her manner, is greatly to improve it and refine it. The cousins, even those older cousins who were paralysed when Sir Leicester married her, do her feudal homage; and the Honourable Bob Stables daily repeats to some chosen person between breakfast and lunch his favourite original remark, that she is the best-groomed woman in the whole stud.
在这个社会中，无论在什么地方，戴德洛克夫人都是至高无上的。她在她的小世界里美丽、优雅、多才多艺、强大（因为时尚世界并没有从一个极地延伸到另一个极点），她对莱斯特爵士家族的影响力，无论她的举止如何傲慢和冷漠，都极大地改善了它，完善它。堂兄弟们，甚至是莱斯特爵士娶她时瘫痪的那些年长的堂兄弟们，都对她表示封建的敬意。尊敬的鲍勃·马厩每天在早餐和午餐之间向某个选定的人重复他最喜欢的原创言论，即她是整个种马中最漂亮的女人。

Such the guests in the long drawing-room at Chesney Wold this dismal night when the step on the Ghost’s Walk (inaudible here, however) might be the step of a deceased cousin shut out in the cold. It is near bed-time. Bedroom fires blaze brightly all over the house, raising ghosts of grim furniture on wall and ceiling. Bedroom candlesticks bristle on the distant table by the door, and cousins yawn on ottomans. Cousins at the piano, cousins at the soda-water tray, cousins rising from the card-table, cousins gathered round the fire. Standing on one side of his own peculiar fire (for there are two), Sir Leicester. On the opposite side of the broad hearth, my Lady at her table. Volumnia, as one of the more privileged cousins, in a luxurious chair between them. Sir Leicester glancing, with magnificent displeasure, at the rouge and the pearl necklace.
在这个凄凉的夜晚，切斯尼沃尔德长长的客厅里的客人就是这样，当时幽灵步道上的脚步声（不过这里听不见）可能是已故表弟在寒冷中被关起来的脚步声。快到睡觉时间了。卧室里的火在整个房子里熊熊燃烧，墙壁和天花板上的阴森家具的幽灵升起。卧室烛台竖立在门边远处的桌子上，表兄弟在脚凳上打哈欠。表兄弟在钢琴前，表兄弟在苏打水托盘前，表兄弟从牌桌上站起来，表兄弟聚集在火边。莱斯特爵士站在他自己独特的火焰的一侧（因为有两处）。在宽阔的壁炉的对面，夫人坐在她的餐桌旁。沃伦尼亚，作为更有特权的表兄弟之一，坐在他们之间的一张豪华椅子上。莱斯特爵士非常不悦地看了一眼胭脂和珍珠项链。

‘I occasionally meet on my staircase here,’ drawls Volumnia, whose thoughts perhaps are already hopping up it to bed, after a long evening of very desultory talk, ‘one of the prettiest girls, I think, that I ever saw in my life.’
“我偶尔会在我家的楼梯上碰面，”沃伦尼娅慢吞吞地说道，经过一整夜的漫无目的的谈话后，她的思绪也许已经跳上床了，“我想，她是我一生中见过的最漂亮的女孩之一” .'

‘A PROTEGEE of my Lady’s,’ observes Sir Leicester.
“我夫人的门徒，”莱斯特爵士评论道。

‘I thought so. I felt sure that some uncommon eye must have picked that girl out. She really is a marvel. A dolly sort of beauty perhaps,’ says Miss Volumnia, reserving her own sort, ‘but in its way, perfect; such bloom I never saw!’
'我是这么想的。我确信一定有一双不寻常的眼睛认出了那个女孩。她确实是一个奇迹。也许是一种可爱的美，”沃伦尼亚小姐保留着她自己的那种美，“但就其本身而言，是完美的；我从来没有见过这样的花！

Sir Leicester, with his magnificent glance of displeasure at the rouge, appears to say so too.
莱斯特爵士对胭脂投以不满的目光，似乎也是这么说的。

‘Indeed,’ remarks my Lady languidly, ‘if there is any uncommon eye in the case, it is Mrs. Rouncewell’s, and not mine. Rosa is her discovery.’
“确实，”夫人懒洋洋地说道，“如果说这件事情有什么不寻常的地方的话，那就是朗斯韦尔夫人的眼睛，而不是我的眼睛。”罗莎是她的发现。”

‘Your maid, I suppose?’
“我想是你的女仆吧？”

‘No. My anything; pet—secretary—messenger—I don’t know what.’
'不。我的一切；宠物——秘书——信使——我不知道是什么。

‘You like to have her about you, as you would like to have a flower, or a bird, or a picture, or a poodle—no, not a poodle, though—or anything else that was equally pretty?’ says Volumnia, sympathizing. ‘Yes, how charming now! And how well that delightful old soul Mrs. Rouncewell is looking. She must be an immense age, and yet she is as active and handsome! She is the dearest friend I have, positively!’
“你喜欢她在你身边，就像你想要一朵花、一只鸟、一幅画、一只贵宾犬——不，不是贵宾犬——或者任何其他同样漂亮的东西？”沃伦尼亚说，同情。 ‘是啊，现在多么迷人啊！朗斯韦尔夫人那个令人愉快的老灵魂看起来多么好啊。她年纪一定很大了，但还是那么活泼，那么帅气！她确实是我最亲爱的朋友！

Sir Leicester feels it to be right and fitting that the housekeeper of Chesney Wold should be a remarkable person. Apart from that, he has a real regard for Mrs. Rouncewell and likes to hear her praised. So he says, ‘You are right, Volumnia,’ which Volumnia is extremely glad to hear.
莱斯特爵士认为切斯尼·沃尔德的管家应该是一位了不起的人，这是正确且恰当的。除此之外，他非常尊重朗斯韦尔夫人，喜欢听到她受到赞扬。于是他说：“你是对的，沃伦尼亚。”沃伦尼亚听到这句话非常高兴。

‘She has no daughter of her own, has she?’
“她没有自己的女儿，不是吗？”

‘Mrs. Rouncewell? No, Volumnia. She has a son. Indeed, she had two.’
'太太。朗斯韦尔？不，沃伦尼亚。她有一个儿子。事实上，她有两个。

My Lady, whose chronic malady of boredom has been sadly aggravated by Volumnia this evening, glances wearily towards the candlesticks and heaves a noiseless sigh.
今晚，沃伦妮娅不幸地加剧了​​夫人的慢性无聊病，她疲倦地看了一眼烛台，无声地叹了口气。

‘And it is a remarkable example of the confusion into which the present age has fallen; of the obliteration of landmarks, the opening of floodgates, and the uprooting of distinctions,’ says Sir Leicester with stately gloom, ‘that I have been informed by Mr. Tulkinghorn that Mrs. Rouncewell’s son has been invited to go into Parliament.’
“这是当今时代陷入混乱的一个显着例子； “地标被毁，水闸被打开，各种区别被连根拔起，”莱斯特爵士庄严地忧郁地说，“塔尔金霍恩先生告诉我，朗斯韦尔夫人的儿子已被邀请进入议会。”

Miss Volumnia utters a little sharp scream.
沃伦尼亚小姐发出一声尖锐的尖叫。

‘Yes, indeed,’ repeats Sir Leicester. ‘Into Parliament.’
“是的，确实如此，”莱斯特爵士重复道。 “进入议会。”

‘I never heard of such a thing! Good gracious, what is the man?’ exclaims Volumnia.
‘我从来没有听说过这样的事！天哪，这个人是谁？”沃伦尼亚惊呼道。

‘He is called, I believe—an—ironmaster.’ Sir Leicester says it slowly and with gravity and doubt, as not being sure but that he is called a lead-mistress or that the right word may be some other word expressive of some other relationship to some other metal.
“我相信他被称为——一位——钢铁大师。”莱斯特爵士缓慢而严肃地说道，语气中带着怀疑，似乎不确定他被称为“首席情妇”，或者正确的词可能是表达某些事物的其他词。与其他金属的其他关系。

Volumnia utters another little scream.
沃伦尼亚又发出一声小尖叫。

‘He has declined the proposal, if my information from Mr. Tulkinghorn be correct, as I have no doubt it is. Mr. Tulkinghorn being always correct and exact; still that does not,’ says Sir Leicester, ‘that does not lessen the anomaly, which is fraught with strange considerations—startling considerations, as it appears to me.’
“如果我从图尔金霍恩先生那里得到的信息是正确的话，他已经拒绝了这个提议，对此我深信不疑。”图金霍恩先生总是正确而准确；尽管如此，”莱斯特爵士说道，“这并没有减轻这种异常现象，这种异常现象充满了奇怪的考虑——在我看来，这是令人震惊的考虑。”

Miss Volumnia rising with a look candlestick-wards, Sir Leicester politely performs the grand tour of the drawing-room, brings one, and lights it at my Lady’s shaded lamp.
沃伦尼亚小姐起身，目光凝视着烛台，莱斯特爵士礼貌地参观了客厅，拿来一盏，在夫人的灯罩下点燃。

‘I must beg you, my Lady,’ he says while doing so, ‘to remain a few moments, for this individual of whom I speak arrived this evening shortly before dinner and requested in a very becoming note’—Sir Leicester, with his habitual regard to truth, dwells upon it—‘I am bound to say, in a very becoming and well-expressed note, the favour of a short interview with yourself and MYself on the subject of this young girl. As it appeared that he wished to depart tonight, I replied that we would see him before retiring.’
“我必须恳求您，我的女士，”他边说边说道，“请稍等片刻，因为我所说的这个人今晚在晚饭前不久就到达了，并以非常恰当的方式提出了请求”——莱斯特爵士，带着他的习惯性地关注真理，详述它——“我必须以一种非常恰当和表达得当的方式说，赞成就这个年轻女孩的话题对你自己和我自己进行一次简短的采访。由于他似乎想今晚离开，我回答说我们会在退休前见他。

Miss Volumnia with a third little scream takes flight, wishing her hosts—O Lud!—well rid of the—what is it?—ironmaster!
沃伦尼亚小姐第三声尖叫着飞走了，祝愿她的主人——路德啊！——顺利摆脱——那是什么？——钢铁大师！

The other cousins soon disperse, to the last cousin there. Sir Leicester rings the bell, ‘Make my compliments to Mr. Rouncewell, in the housekeeper’s apartments, and say I can receive him now.’
其他表兄弟很快就散去，来到最后一个表兄弟那里。莱斯特爵士按响了门铃，“请向管家公寓里的朗斯韦尔先生致意，并说我现在可以接待他了。”

My Lady, who has beard all this with slight attention outwardly, looks towards Mr. Rouncewell as he comes in. He is a little over fifty perhaps, of a good figure, like his mother, and has a clear voice, a broad forehead from which his dark hair has retired, and a shrewd though open face. He is a responsible-looking gentleman dressed in black, portly enough, but strong and active. Has a perfectly natural and easy air and is not in the least embarrassed by the great presence into which he comes.
夫人，留着胡须，外表上略显引人注目，当朗斯韦尔先生进来时，她看着他。他大概五十多岁，身材很好，像他的母亲一样，声音清晰，额头宽阔。他的黑发已经退去，还有一张精明但开放的脸。他是一位看上去很负责任的绅士，身穿黑衣，身材肥胖，但强壮而活跃。有着一种完全自然和轻松的气质，并且不会因为他出现在伟大的场合而感到尴尬。

‘Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock, as I have already apologized for intruding on you, I cannot do better than be very brief. I thank you, Sir Leicester.’
“莱斯特爵士和戴德洛克夫人，我已经为打扰你们道歉了，所以我只能说得非常简短。我谢谢你，莱斯特爵士。

The head of the Dedlocks has motioned towards a sofa between himself and my Lady. Mr. Rouncewell quietly takes his seat there.
戴德洛克夫妇的首领示意他和夫人之间的一张沙发。朗斯韦尔先生静静地坐在那儿。

‘In these busy times, when so many great undertakings are in progress, people like myself have so many workmen in so many places that we are always on the flight.’
“在这个忙碌的时代，当这么多伟大的事业正在进行时，像我这样的人在这么多地方有这么多工人，我们总是在飞行中。”

Sir Leicester is content enough that the ironmaster should feel that there is no hurry there; there, in that ancient house, rooted in that quiet park, where the ivy and the moss have had time to mature, and the gnarled and warted elms and the umbrageous oaks stand deep in the fern and leaves of a hundred years; and where the sun-dial on the terrace has dumbly recorded for centuries that time which was as much the property of every Dedlock—while he lasted— as the house and lands. Sir Leicester sits down in an easy-chair, opposing his repose and that of Chesney Wold to the restless flights of ironmasters.
莱斯特爵士对此很满意，铁匠应该觉得那里并不着急。在那里，在那座古老的房子里，扎根于那个安静的公园里，那里的常春藤和苔藓已经成熟了，粗糙和疣状的榆树和丑陋的橡树深深地矗立在一百年的蕨类植物和树叶中；露台上的日晷几个世纪以来一直默默地记录着那个时间，它是每个戴德洛克的财产——只要他还在世——就像房子和土地一样。莱斯特爵士坐在安乐椅上，将他和切斯尼·沃尔德的宁静与铁艺大师们焦躁不安的飞行相反。

‘Lady Dedlock has been so kind,’ proceeds Mr. Rouncewell with a respectful glance and a bow that way, ‘as to place near her a young beauty of the name of Rosa. Now, my son has fallen in love with Rosa and has asked my consent to his proposing marriage to her and to their becoming engaged if she will take him—which I suppose she will. I have never seen Rosa until to-day, but I have some confidence in my son’s good sense—even in love. I find her what he represents her, to the best of my judgment; and my mother speaks of her with great commendation.’
“戴德洛克夫人真是太仁慈了，”朗斯韦尔先生继续说道，他毕恭毕敬地看了一眼，然后鞠了个躬，“在她身边安置了一位名叫罗莎的年轻美人。”现在，我的儿子已经爱上了罗莎，并请求我同意他向她求婚，如果她愿意接受他，他们就订婚——我想她会的。直到今天我才见过罗莎，但我对儿子的良好判断力有一定的信心——即使是在爱情方面。根据我的判断，我发现她就是他所代表的她。我母亲谈到她时给予了极大的赞扬。

‘She in all respects deserves it,’ says my Lady.
“从各方面来说，她都是应得的，”我的女士说。

‘I am happy, Lady Dedlock, that you say so, and I need not comment on the value to me of your kind opinion of her.’
“我很高兴，戴德洛克夫人，你这么说，我不需要评论你对她的善意评价对我的价值。”

‘That,’ observes Sir Leicester with unspeakable grandeur, for he thinks the ironmaster a little too glib, ‘must be quite unnecessary.’
“那，”莱斯特爵士以难以形容的威严说道，因为他认为铁匠有点太油嘴滑舌了，“肯定是完全没有必要的。”

‘Quite unnecessary, Sir Leicester. Now, my son is a very young man, and Rosa is a very young woman. As I made my way, so my son must make his; and his being married at present is out of the question. But supposing I gave my consent to his engaging himself to this pretty girl, if this pretty girl will engage herself to him, I think it a piece of candour to say at once—I am sure, Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock, you will understand and excuse me—I should make it a condition that she did not remain at Chesney Wold. Therefore, before communicating further with my son, I take the liberty of saying that if her removal would be in any way inconvenient or objectionable, I will hold the matter over with him for any reasonable time and leave it precisely where it is.’
“完全没有必要，莱斯特爵士。现在，我的儿子是一个非常年轻的男人，罗莎是一个非常年轻的女人。正如我走自己的路一样，我的儿子也必须走他的路；而他现在结婚是不可能的。但假设我同意他与这个漂亮的女孩订婚，如果这个漂亮的女孩愿意与他订婚，我认为这是一种坦率的说法，我相信，莱斯特爵士和戴德洛克夫人，你们会理解的对不起——我应该把她不留在切斯尼沃尔德作为一个条件。因此，在与我的儿子进一步沟通之前，我冒昧地说，如果她的离开会带来任何不便或令人反感，我将在任何合理的时间内与他一起处理这件事，并将其保留在原处。

Not remain at Chesney Wold! Make it a condition! All Sir Leicester’s old misgivings relative to Wat Tyler and the people in the iron districts who do nothing but turn out by torchlight come in a shower upon his head, the fine grey hair of which, as well as of his whiskers, actually stirs with indignation.
不要留在切斯尼沃尔德！就当做一个条件吧！莱斯特爵士对沃特·泰勒和铁矿区人们的所有疑虑都在他头上倾盆而下，细小的灰发和胡须实际上都因愤怒而颤动。 。

‘Am I to understand, sir,’ says Sir Leicester, ‘and is my Lady to understand’—he brings her in thus specially, first as a point of gallantry, and next as a point of prudence, having great reliance on her sense—‘am I to understand, Mr. Rouncewell, and is my Lady to understand, sir, that you consider this young woman too good for Chesney Wold or likely to be injured by remaining here?’
“我能理解吗，先生，”莱斯特爵士说，“我的夫人也能理解吗？”他特意把她带进来，首先是出于殷勤，其次是出于谨慎，非常依赖她的感觉——“我是否可以理解，朗斯韦尔先生，我的女士是否可以理解，先生，您认为这个年轻女子对切斯尼·沃尔德来说太好了，或者留在这里可能会受伤？”

‘Certainly not, Sir Leicester,’
“当然不是，莱斯特爵士。”

‘I am glad to hear it.’ Sir Leicester very lofty indeed.
“我很高兴听到这个消息。”莱斯特爵士确实非常崇高。

‘Pray, Mr. Rouncewell,’ says my Lady, warning Sir Leicester off with the slightest gesture of her pretty hand, as if he were a fly, ‘explain to me what you mean.’
“朗斯韦尔先生，请您向我夫人解释一下您的意思，”我的夫人用她那只漂亮的手轻轻地做了个手势，警告莱斯特爵士走开，就好像他是一只苍蝇一样。

‘Willingly, Lady Dedlock. There is nothing I could desire more.’
“愿意，戴德洛克夫人。我没有什么比这更渴望的了。

Addressing her composed face, whose intelligence, however, is too quick and active to be concealed by any studied impassiveness, however habitual, to the strong Saxon face of the visitor, a picture of resolution and perseverance, my Lady listens with attention, occasionally slightly bending her head.
她那张平静的脸庞，然而，她的智慧太敏捷、太活跃，无法被任何刻意的冷漠所掩盖，无论多么习惯，对来访者坚强的撒克逊面孔，这是一幅决心和毅力的图画，我的女士全神贯注地听着，偶尔轻微地她低下头。

‘I am the son of your housekeeper, Lady Dedlock, and passed my childhood about this house. My mother has lived here half a century and will die here I have no doubt. She is one of those examples—perhaps as good a one as there is—of love, and attachment, and fidelity in such a nation, which England may well be proud of, but of which no order can appropriate the whole pride or the whole merit, because such an instance bespeaks high worth on two sides—on the great side assuredly, on the small one no less assuredly.’
“我是你管家戴德洛克夫人的儿子，我的童年是在这所房子里度过的。我的母亲在这里生活了半个世纪，我毫不怀疑她也会死在这里。她是这样一个国家中的爱、依恋和忠诚的例子之一——也许是最好的例子之一，英格兰很可能为此感到自豪，但任何秩序都不能剥夺这个国家的全部骄傲或全部。优点，因为这样的例子表明了两方面的高价值——大方面肯定如此，小方面也同样肯定。

Sir Leicester snorts a little to hear the law laid down in this way, but in his honour and his love of truth, he freely, though silently, admits the justice of the ironmaster’s proposition.
莱斯特爵士听到这样制定的法律，不禁嗤之以鼻，但出于他的荣誉和对真理的热爱，他自由地、虽然沉默地承认了铁匠的主张的正义性。

‘Pardon me for saying what is so obvious, but I wouldn’t have it hastily supposed,’ with the least turn of his eyes towards Sir Leicester, ‘that I am ashamed of my mother’s position here, or wanting in all just respect for Chesney Wold and the family. I certainly may have desired—I certainly have desired, Lady Dedlock —that my mother should retire after so many years and end her days with me. But as I have found that to sever this strong bond would be to break her heart, I have long abandoned that idea.’
“请原谅我说得这么明显，但我不会仓促地认为，”他的眼睛至少转向莱斯特爵士，“我对我母亲在这里的地位感到羞耻，或者只是想要尊重切斯尼·沃尔德和家人。我当然可能希望——我当然希望，戴德洛克夫人——我的母亲应该在这么多年之后退休，和我一起结束她的日子。但我发现切断这种牢固的联系就会让她心碎，所以我早已放弃了这个想法。

Sir Leicester very magnificent again at the notion of Mrs. Rouncewell being spirited off from her natural home to end her days with an ironmaster.
莱斯特爵士再次对朗斯韦尔夫人被偷偷离开她的家乡、结束她与铁匠的日子的想法感到非常惊叹。

‘I have been,’ proceeds the visitor in a modest, clear way, ‘an apprentice and a workman. I have lived on workman’s wages, years and years, and beyond a certain point have had to educate myself. My wife was a foreman’s daughter, and plainly brought up. We have three daughters besides this son of whom I have spoken, and being fortunately able to give them greater advantages than we have had ourselves, we have educated them well, very well. It has been one of our great cares and pleasures to make them worthy of any station.’
“我曾经是，”来访者以谦虚、清晰的方式继续说道，“我是一名学徒和工人。”我年复一年地靠工人的工资生活，超过了一定程度就必须自我教育。我的妻子是工头的女儿，从小就很朴素。除了我刚才提到的这个儿子之外，我们还有三个女儿，幸运的是，我们能够给她们比我们自己更大的优势，我们把她们教育得很好，很好。让他们配得上任何职位是我们最大的关心和快乐之一。

A little boastfulness in his fatherly tone here, as if he added in his heart, ‘even of the Chesney Wold station.’ Not a little more magnificence, therefore, on the part of Sir Leicester.
他慈父般的语气里带着一丝自夸，仿佛他在心里补充道，“甚至是切斯尼沃尔德车站。”因此，莱斯特爵士的表现也毫不逊色。

‘All this is so frequent, Lady Dedlock, where I live, and among the class to which I belong, that what would be generally called unequal marriages are not of such rare occurrence with us as elsewhere. A son will sometimes make it known to his father that he has fallen in love, say, with a young woman in the factory. The father, who once worked in a factory himself, will be a little disappointed at first very possibly. It may be that he had other views for his son. However, the chances are that having ascertained the young woman to be of unblemished character, he will say to his son, ‘I must be quite sure you are in earnest here. This is a serious matter for both of you. Therefore I shall have this girl educated for two years,’ or it may be, ‘I shall place this girl at the same school with your sisters for such a time, during which you will give me your word and honour to see her only so often. If at the expiration of that time, when she has so far profited by her advantages as that you may be upon a fair equality, you are both in the same mind, I will do my part to make you happy.’ I know of several cases such as I describe, my Lady, and I think they indicate to me my own course now.’
“戴德洛克夫人，在我居住的地方以及我所属的阶级中，这一切都是如此频繁，以至于通常所说的不平等婚姻在我们这里并不像其他地方那样罕见。儿子有时会让父亲知道他爱上了工厂里的一位年轻女子。这位曾经在工厂工作过的父亲一开始很可能会有点失望。也许他对儿子有其他的看法。然而，当他确定这位年轻女子品格完美后，他很可能会对他的儿子说：“我必须非常确定你在这里是认真的。”这对你们俩来说都是一件严重的事情。因此，我将让这个女孩接受两年的教育，”或者可能是，“我将让这个女孩与你的姐妹们在同一所学校学习一段时间，在此期间，你将向我保证并荣幸地见到她，这样就可以了。”经常。如果到了这段时间，当她已经从她的优势中获益，你们可以处于公平的平等地位时，你们俩的想法是一样的，我会尽力让你们幸福。”我知道几个女士们，我所描述的例子，我认为它们向我表明了我现在的做法。

Sir Leicester’s magnificence explodes. Calmly, but terribly.
莱斯特爵士的辉煌爆发了。平静，但很可怕。

‘Mr. Rouncewell,’ says Sir Leicester with his right hand in the breast of his blue coat, the attitude of state in which he is painted in the gallery, ‘do you draw a parallel between Chesney Wold and a—‘ Here he resists a disposition to choke, ‘a factory?’
'先生。朗斯韦尔，”莱斯特爵士将右手放在蓝色外套的胸前说道，这就是他在画廊中所画的状态，“你是否将切斯尼·沃尔德与一个——”在这里，他抵制了一种倾向窒息，“工厂？”

‘I need not reply, Sir Leicester, that the two places are very different; but for the purposes of this case, I think a parallel may be justly drawn between them.’
“我不需要回答，莱斯特爵士，这两个地方非常不同；但就本案而言，我认为将它们进行类比是合理的。”

Sir Leicester directs his majestic glance down one side of the long drawing-room and up the other before he can believe that he is awake.
莱斯特爵士用他威严的目光扫过长客厅的一侧，又向上扫过另一侧，才相信自己已经醒了。

‘Are you aware, sir, that this young woman whom my Lady—my Lady— has placed near her person was brought up at the village school outside the gates?’
“您知道吗，先生，这位女士——女士——放在她身边的这位年轻女子是在门外的乡村学校长大的？”

‘Sir Leicester, I am quite aware of it. A very good school it is, and handsomely supported by this family.’
“莱斯特爵士，我很清楚这一点。这是一所非常好的学校，并得到了这个家庭的大力支持。”

‘Then, Mr. Rouncewell,’ returns Sir Leicester, ‘the application of what you have said is, to me, incomprehensible.’
“那么，朗斯韦尔先生，”莱斯特爵士回答道，“对我来说，你所说的话的应用是难以理解的。”

‘Will it be more comprehensible, Sir Leicester, if I say,’ the ironmaster is reddening a little, ‘that I do not regard the village school as teaching everything desirable to be known by my son’s wife?’
“莱斯特爵士，如果我说，”铁匠的脸有点红了，“我不认为乡村学校教授我儿媳妇所希望了解的一切，这样会更容易理解吗？”

From the village school of Chesney Wold, intact as it is this minute, to the whole framework of society; from the whole framework of society, to the aforesaid framework receiving tremendous cracks in consequence of people (iron-masters, lead-mistresses, and what not) not minding their catechism, and getting out of the station unto which they are called—necessarily and for ever, according to Sir Leicester’s rapid logic, the first station in which they happen to find themselves; and from that, to their educating other people out of THEIR stations, and so obliterating the landmarks, and opening the floodgates, and all the rest of it; this is the swift progress of the Dedlock mind.
从切斯尼沃尔德的乡村学校，到此刻完好无损的整个社会框架；从社会的整个框架，到上述框架由于人们（铁匠、首席情妇等等）不介意他们的教义问答而受到巨大的裂缝，并且离开了他们被召唤的地位——必然和按照莱斯特爵士的快速逻辑，永远是他们碰巧发现自己的第一站；从那以后，他们教育其他人离开自己的岗位，从而消除了地标，打开了闸门，以及所有其他的事情；这就是戴洛克思想的飞速进步。

‘My Lady, I beg your pardon. Permit me, for one moment!’ She has given a faint indication of intending to speak. ‘Mr. Rouncewell, our views of duty, and our views of station, and our views of education, and our views of—in short, ALL our views—are so diametrically opposed, that to prolong this discussion must be repellent to your feelings and repellent to my own. This young woman is honoured with my Lady’s notice and favour. If she wishes to withdraw herself from that notice and favour or if she chooses to place herself under the influence of any one who may in his peculiar opinions—you will allow me to say, in his peculiar opinions, though I readily admit that he is not accountable for them to me—who may, in his peculiar opinions, withdraw her from that notice and favour, she is at any time at liberty to do so. We are obliged to you for the plainness with which you have spoken. It will have no effect of itself, one way or other, on the young woman’s position here. Beyond this, we can make no terms; and here we beg—if you will be so good—to leave the subject.’
‘夫人，请您原谅。请允许我，一会儿！”她隐隐约约地表示要说话。 '先生。朗斯韦尔，我们对责任的看法，我们对地位的看法，我们对教育的看法，以及我们的观点——简而言之，我们所有的观点——都是截然相反的，以至于延长这场讨论必须让你感到厌恶，也让你厌恶我自己的。这位年轻女子很荣幸得到夫人的关注和青睐。如果她希望不再受到这种关注和青睐，或者如果她选择将自己置于任何可能持有其独特观点的人的影响之下——你会允许我说，以他的独特观点，尽管我欣然承认他是不对我负责——我可以根据他的独特意见，取消对她的关注和青睐，她可以随时这样做。我们很感谢你的直言不讳。无论以何种方式，它本身不会对这位年轻女子在这里的地位产生任何影响。除此之外，我们不能提出任何条件；在这里，我们恳求——如果你愿意的话——离开这个话题。

The visitor pauses a moment to give my Lady an opportunity, but she says nothing. He then rises and replies, ‘Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock, allow me to thank you for your attention and only to observe that I shall very seriously recommend my son to conquer his present inclinations. Good night!’
来访者停顿了一下，给我的女士一个机会，但她什么也没说。然后他站起来回答道：“莱斯特爵士和戴德洛克夫人，请允许我感谢你们的关注，只是说我会非常认真地建议我的儿子克服他目前的倾向。”晚安！'

‘Mr. Rouncewell,’ says Sir Leicester with all the nature of a gentleman shining in him, ‘it is late, and the roads are dark. I hope your time is not so precious but that you will allow my Lady and myself to offer you the hospitality of Chesney Wold, for tonight at least.’
'先生。朗斯韦尔，”莱斯特爵士说道，他身上闪烁着绅士的气质，“时间已经很晚了，道路漆黑。我希望您的时间不那么宝贵，但您将允许我的女士和我本人为您提供切斯尼沃尔德的热情款待，至少今晚如此。

‘I hope so,’ adds my Lady.
“我希望如此，”夫人补充道。

‘I am much obliged to you, but I have to travel all night in order to reach a distant part of the country punctually at an appointed time in the morning.’
“我非常感谢你，但我必须整夜赶路，才能在早上指定的时间准时到达这个国家的一个遥远的地方。”

Therewith the ironmaster takes his departure, Sir Leicester ringing the bell and my Lady rising as he leaves the room.
随后，铁匠离开了，莱斯特爵士按响了门铃，夫人在他离开房间时起身。

When my Lady goes to her boudoir, she sits down thoughtfully by the fire, and inattentive to the Ghost’s Walk, looks at Rosa, writing in an inner room. Presently my Lady calls her.
当我的夫人去她的闺房时，她若有所思地坐在火边，不顾鬼步，看着正在内室写作的罗莎。不久，夫人就打电话给她。

‘Come to me, child. Tell me the truth. Are you in love?’
‘到我这里来吧，孩子。告诉我真相。你在恋爱吗？'

‘Oh! My Lady!’
'哦！我的女士！'

My Lady, looking at the downcast and blushing face, says smiling, ‘Who is it? Is it Mrs. Rouncewell’s grandson?’
夫人看着那脸色低沉、脸色通红的人，微笑道：“谁啊？”是朗斯韦尔夫人的孙子吗？

‘Yes, if you please, my Lady. But I don’t know that I am in love with him—yet.’
“是的，如果您愿意的话，夫人。但我还不知道我爱上了他。”

‘Yet, you silly little thing! Do you know that he loves YOU, yet?’
‘可是，你这个愚蠢的小东西！你知道他爱你吗？

‘I think he likes me a little, my Lady.’ And Rosa bursts into tears.
“我想他有点喜欢我，女士。”罗莎泪流满面。

Is this Lady Dedlock standing beside the village beauty, smoothing her dark hair with that motherly touch, and watching her with eyes so full of musing interest? Aye, indeed it is!
这位戴德洛克女士是站在乡村美女旁边，用慈母般的抚摸着她的黑发，用充满沉思兴趣的眼神看着她吗？是啊，确实是这样！

‘Listen to me, child. You are young and true, and I believe you are attached to me.’
‘听我说，孩子。你年轻而真实，我相信你对我很依恋。

‘Indeed I am, my Lady. Indeed there is nothing in the world I wouldn’t do to show how much.’
“确实如此，我的女士。事实上，世界上没有什么是我不愿意做的，来展示我的努力。”

‘And I don’t think you would wish to leave me just yet, Rosa, even for a lover?’
“罗莎，我想你现在还不想离开我，哪怕是为了一个情人？”

‘No, my Lady! Oh, no!’ Rosa looks up for the first time, quite frightened at the thought.
“不，夫人！哦，不！”罗莎第一次抬起头来，对这个想法感到非常害怕。

‘Confide in me, my child. Don’t fear me. I wish you to be happy, and will make you so—if I can make anybody happy on this earth.’
‘相信我，我的孩子。别怕我。我希望你快乐，并且会让你快乐——如果我能让这个地球上的任何人快乐的话。”

Rosa, with fresh tears, kneels at her feet and kisses her hand. My Lady takes the hand with which she has caught it, and standing with her eyes fixed on the fire, puts it about and about between her own two hands, and gradually lets it fall. Seeing her so absorbed, Rosa softly withdraws; but still my Lady’s eyes are on the fire.
罗莎满脸泪水，跪在她脚边，亲吻她的手。夫人握住她接住它的手，站在那里，眼睛盯着火，把它放在自己的两只手之间，然后慢慢地让它掉下来。罗莎见她如此全神贯注，轻轻地退了出去。但夫人的眼睛仍然盯着火。

In search of what? Of any hand that is no more, of any hand that never was, of any touch that might have magically changed her life? Or does she listen to the Ghost’s Walk and think what step does it most resemble? A man’s? A woman’s? The pattering of a little child’s feet, ever coming on—on—on? Some melancholy influence is upon her, or why should so proud a lady close the doors and sit alone upon the hearth so desolate?
寻找什么？任何已经不复存在的手，任何从未存在过的手，任何可能神奇地改变她生活的触碰？或者她会听鬼步并认为它最像哪一步？一个男人的？女人的？一个小孩子的脚步声，不断地——不断地——不断地传来？她身上有某种忧郁的影响，或者为什么如此骄傲的一位女士要关上门，独自坐在如此荒凉的炉边呢？

Volumnia is away next day, and all the cousins are scattered before dinner. Not a cousin of the batch but is amazed to hear from Sir Leicester at breakfast-time of the obliteration of landmarks, and opening of floodgates, and cracking of the framework of society, manifested through Mrs. Rouncewell’s son. Not a cousin of the batch but is really indignant, and connects it with the feebleness of William Buffy when in office, and really does feel deprived of a stake in the country—or the pension list—or something—by fraud and wrong. As to Volumnia, she is handed down the great staircase by Sir Leicester, as eloquent upon the theme as if there were a general rising in the north of England to obtain her rouge-pot and pearl necklace. And thus, with a clatter of maids and valets—for it is one appurtenance of their cousinship that however difficult they may find it to keep themselves, they MUST keep maids and valets—the cousins disperse to the four winds of heaven; and the one wintry wind that blows to-day shakes a shower from the trees near the deserted house, as if all the cousins had been changed into leaves.
沃伦尼亚第二天就离开了，所有的表兄弟姐妹在晚饭前都散了。虽然不是这批人的堂兄，但在早餐时间，莱斯特爵士惊讶地听到莱斯特爵士讲述了地标被毁、水闸打开、社会框架破裂的情况，这些都是通过朗斯韦尔夫人的儿子表现出来的。虽然不是这批人的表亲，但他确实感到愤怒，并将其与威廉·巴菲在任时的软弱联系起来，并且确实感到自己因欺诈和错误而被剥夺了国家的利益——或者养老金名单——或者其他什么东西。至于沃伦尼亚，莱斯特爵士将她从大楼梯上递了下来，雄辩地讲述了这个主题，就像英格兰北部发生了一场普遍的起义，以获取她的胭脂罐和珍珠项链。就这样，伴随着女仆和男仆的一阵喧哗声——因为这是他们表兄弟的附属物，无论他们发现自己如何难以维持，他们都必须保留女仆和男仆——表兄弟们四散而去；今天吹来的一阵寒风，把废弃房屋附近的树吹得阵阵雨，仿佛所有的表兄弟都变成了树叶。

CHAPTER XXIX
第二十九章


The Young Man
年轻人

Chesney Wold is shut up, carpets are rolled into great scrolls in corners of comfortless rooms, bright damask does penance in brown holland, carving and gilding puts on mortification, and the Dedlock ancestors retire from the light of day again. Around and around the house the leaves fall thick, but never fast, for they come circling down with a dead lightness that is sombre and slow. Let the gardener sweep and sweep the turf as he will, and press the leaves into full barrows, and wheel them off, still they lie ankledeep. Howls the shrill wind round Chesney Wold; the sharp rain beats, the windows rattle, and the chimneys growl. Mists hide in the avenues, veil the points of view, and move in funeral-wise across the rising grounds. On all the house there is a cold, blank smell like the smell of a little church, though something dryer, suggesting that the dead and buried Dedlocks walk there in the long nights and leave the flavour of their graves behind them.
切斯尼庄园被关起来，地毯在不舒适的房间的角落里卷成巨大的卷轴，明亮的锦缎在棕色荷兰色中进行忏悔，雕刻和镀金呈现出苦行，戴德洛克的祖先再次从阳光下消失。房子周围，树叶纷纷落下，但落得并不快，因为它们盘旋而下，带着一种死一般的轻盈，阴沉而缓慢。让园丁随心所欲地清扫草坪，把树叶压进装满的手推车里，然后用轮子把它们推开，它们仍然深埋在脚踝处。切斯尼森林周围呼啸着刺耳的风；暴雨倾盆而下，窗户嘎嘎作响，烟囱轰鸣。雾气隐藏在大街上，遮蔽了视野，并以葬礼的方式穿过高地。整个房子里都弥漫着一种冰冷、空洞的气味，就像一座小教堂的气味，尽管有些干燥，这表明死去和埋葬的德洛克人在漫长的夜晚走到那里，把坟墓的味道留在身后。

But the house in town, which is rarely in the same mind as Chesney Wold at the same time, seldom rejoicing when it rejoices or mourning when it mourns, expecting when a Dedlock dies—the house in town shines out awakened. As warm and bright as so much state may be, as delicately redolent of pleasant scents that bear no trace of winter as hothouse flowers can make it, soft and hushed so that the ticking of the clocks and the crisp burning of the fires alone disturb the stillness in the rooms, it seems to wrap those chilled bones of Sir Leicester’s in rainbow-coloured wool. And Sir Leicester is glad to repose in dignified contentment before the great fire in the library, condescendingly perusing the backs of his books or honouring the fine arts with a glance of approbation. For he has his pictures, ancient and modern. Some of the Fancy Ball School in which art occasionally condescends to become a master, which would be best catalogued like the miscellaneous articles in a sale. As ‘“Three high-backed chairs, a table and cover, long-necked bottle (containing wine), one flask, one Spanish female’s costume, three-quarter face portrait of Miss Jogg the model, and a suit of armour containing Don Quixote.’ Or ‘One stone terrace (cracked), one gondola in distance, one Venetian senator’s dress complete, richly embroidered white satin costume with profile portrait of Miss Jogg the model, one Scimitar superbly mounted in gold with jewelled handle, elaborate Moorish dress (very rare), and Othello.’
但城里的房子却很少和切斯尼·沃尔德同时有同样的想法，很少在欢乐时欢乐，在哀悼时也很少哀悼，期待着当戴德洛克去世时，城里的房子就会醒来。尽一切可能温暖而明亮，散发着令人愉悦的芬芳，就像温室里的花朵一样，没有冬天的痕迹，柔和而安静，以至于钟表的滴答声和炉火的清脆燃烧扰乱了周围的一切。房间里一片寂静，莱斯特爵士冰冷的骨头似乎被彩虹色的羊毛包裹着。莱斯特爵士很高兴在图书馆的篝火前端庄而满足地休息，居高临下地阅读他的书籍背面或以赞许的目光向美术致敬。因为他有他的照片，古代的和现代的。一些花式舞会学校，其中艺术偶尔屈尊成为大师，最好像拍卖中的杂货一样进行分类。如“三把高背椅、一张桌子和一个盖子、长颈瓶（装有酒）、一个烧瓶、一套西班牙女性服装、模特乔格小姐的四分之三脸部肖像、一套装有唐吉诃德的盔甲” ”或者“一个石头露台（有裂缝），远处有一艘贡多拉，一件完整的威尼斯参议员礼服，一件绣着华丽的白色缎子服装，上面有模特乔格小姐的侧面肖像，一把镶有宝石的黄金弯刀，精致的摩尔式连衣裙（非常罕见）和奥赛罗。

Mr. Tulkinghorn comes and goes pretty often, there being estate business to do, leases to be renewed, and so on. He sees my Lady pretty often, too; and he and she are as composed, and as indifferent, and take as little heed of one another, as ever. Yet it may be that my Lady fears this Mr. Tulkinghorn and that he knows it. It may be that he pursues her doggedly and steadily, with no touch of compunction, remorse, or pity. It may be that her beauty and all the state and brilliancy surrounding her only gives him the greater zest for what he is set upon and makes him the more inflexible in it. Whether he be cold and cruel, whether immovable in what he has made his duty, whether absorbed in love of power, whether determined to have nothing hidden from him in ground where he has burrowed among secrets all his life, whether he in his heart despises the splendour of which he is a distant beam, whether he is always treasuring up slights and offences in the affability of his gorgeous clients—whether he be any of this, or all of this, it may be that my Lady had better have five thousand pairs of fashionahle eyes upon her, in distrustful vigilance, than the two eyes of this rusty lawyer with his wisp of neckcloth and his dull black breeches tied with ribbons at the knees.
图金霍恩先生来来往往，有房地产生意要做，有续租等等。他也经常见到我的夫人；他和她一如既往地镇静、冷漠、不关心对方。然而，也许夫人害怕这位图尔金霍恩先生，而且他也知道这一点。也许他执着而坚定地追求着她，没有一丝内疚、悔恨或怜悯。也许她的美丽以及她周围的一切状态和光彩只会让他对自己所从事的事情更加热情，并使他更加顽固。他是否冷酷无情，是否坚定不移地履行自己的职责，是否热衷于权力，是否决心在他一生所挖掘的秘密中不向他隐瞒任何事情，是否内心鄙视他是远方的辉煌，无论他是否总是在他华丽的客户的和蔼可亲中珍视轻蔑和冒犯——无论他是其中任何一个，还是所有这一切，也许我的女士最好有五千一双双时尚的眼睛带着怀疑的警惕看着她，比这个生锈的律师的两只眼睛更重要，他戴着一缕领巾，穿着暗黑马裤，膝盖上系着丝带。

Sir Leicester sits in my Lady’s room—that room in which Mr. Tulkinghorn read the affidavit in Jarndyce and Jarndyce— particularly complacent. My Lady, as on that day, sits before the fire with her screen in her hand. Sir Leicester is particularly complacent because he has found in his newspaper some congenial remarks bearing directly on the floodgates and the framework of society. They apply so happily to the late case that Sir Leicester has come from the library to my Lady’s room expressly to read them aloud. ‘The man who wrote this article,’ he observes by way of preface, nodding at the fire as if he were nodding down at the man from a mount, ‘has a well-balanced mind.’
莱斯特爵士坐在夫人的房间里——塔尔金霍恩先生在房间里宣读了贾迪斯和贾迪斯的宣誓书——特别得意。夫人和那天一样，坐在火炉前，手里拿着屏风。莱斯特爵士尤其沾沾自喜，因为他在报纸上发现了一些直接针对闸门和社会框架的友善言论。他们如此高兴地申请了最新的案件，以至于莱斯特爵士从图书馆来到我夫人的房间特意大声朗读它们。 “写这篇文章的人，”他在序言中说道，他对着火点点头，就好像他在向山上的人点头一样，“他的头脑很平衡。”

The man’s mind is not so well balanced but that he bores my Lady, who, after a languid effort to listen, or rather a languid resignation of herself to a show of listening, becomes distraught and falls into a contemplation of the fire as if it were her fire at Chesney Wold, and she had never left it. Sir Leicester, quite unconscious, reads on through his double eye-glass, occasionally stopping to remove his glass and express approval, as ‘Very true indeed,’ ‘Very properly put,’ ‘I have frequently made the same remark myself,’ invariably losing his place after each observation, and going up and down the column to find it again.
这个男人的头脑不太平衡，但他让我的女士感到厌烦，她在懒洋洋地努力倾听之后，或者更确切地说，在懒洋洋地听天由命地倾听之后，变得心烦意乱，陷入了对火焰的沉思中，仿佛它是在燃烧。这是她对切斯尼沃尔德的热情，她从未离开过。莱斯特爵士完全没有意识，透过他的双眼眼镜继续阅读，偶尔停下来摘下眼镜并表示赞同，因为“确实非常正确”，“说得非常恰当”，“我自己也经常说过同样的话”，总是这样说。每次观察后都会失去自己的位置，然后在列中上下移动以再次找到它。

Sir Leicester is reading with infinite gravity and state when the door opens, and the Mercury in powder makes this strange announcement, ‘The young man, my Lady, of the name of Guppy.’
当门打开时，莱斯特爵士正在以无限的严肃和状态阅读，粉状的水星发出了这个奇怪的宣告：“这位年轻人，我的女士，名叫孔雀鱼。”

Sir Leicester pauses, stares, repeats in a killing voice, ‘The young man of the name of Guppy?’
莱斯特爵士停了下来，凝视着，用杀气腾腾的声音重复道：“那个叫孔比的年轻人？”

Looking round, he beholds the young man of the name of Guppy, much discomfited and not presenting a very impressive letter of introduction in his manner and appearance.
环顾四周，他看到了那个名叫孔比的年轻人，一脸狼狈，从举止和外表上看，都没有呈现出令人印象深刻的介绍信。

‘Pray,’ says Sir Leicester to Mercury, ‘what do you mean by announcing with this abruptness a young man of the name of Guppy?’
“请问，”莱斯特爵士对墨丘利说道，“您如此唐突地宣布一位名叫孔雀鱼的年轻人是什么意思？”

‘I beg your pardon, Sir Leicester, but my Lady said she would see the young man whenever he called. I was not aware that you were here, Sir Leicester.’
“请您原谅，莱斯特爵士，但我的夫人说只要他打电话来，她就会见到他。我不知道你在这里，莱斯特爵士。

With this apology, Mercury directs a scornful and indignant look at the young man of the name of Guppy which plainly says, ‘What do you come calling here for and getting ME into a row?’
说完这番道歉，墨丘利用轻蔑而愤慨的眼神看着那个名叫孔比的年轻人，他直白地说：“你打电话到这里来找我做什么？”

‘It’s quite right. I gave him those directions,’ says my Lady. ‘Let the young man wait.’
‘说得很对。我给了他这些指示，”我的夫人说道。 “让年轻人等一下。”

‘By no means, my Lady. Since he has your orders to come, I will not interrupt you.’ Sir Leicester in his gallantry retires, rather declining to accept a bow from the young man as he goes out and majestically supposing him to be some shoemaker of intrusive appearance.
“绝不是这样，我的女士。既然他有你的命令要来，我就不打扰你了。”莱斯特爵士殷勤地退了出去，在年轻人走出去时拒绝接受他的鞠躬，并威严地以为他是一个外表咄咄逼人的鞋匠。

Lady Dedlock looks imperiously at her visitor when the servant has left the room, casting her eyes over him from head to foot. She suffers him to stand by the door and asks him what he wants.
当仆人离开房间时，戴德洛克夫人专横地看着她的客人，从头到脚地打量着他。她让他站在门口，问他想要什么。

‘That your ladyship would have the kindness to oblige me with a little conversation,’ returns Mr. Guppy, embarrassed.
“尊敬的女士，请您和我聊聊。”古皮先生尴尬地回答道。

‘You are, of course, the person who has written me so many letters?’
“当然，你就是给我写了这么多信的人？”

‘Several, your ladyship. Several before your ladyship condescended to favour me with an answer.’
“有几个，夫人。夫人之前有几位屈尊给我一个答复。

‘And could you not take the same means of rendering a Conversation unnecessary? Can you not still?’
‘难道你不能采取同样的方式来使对话变得不必要吗？你能不能别这样？

Mr. Guppy screws his mouth into a silent ‘No!’ and shakes his head.
孔雀鱼先生抿着嘴，默默地说“不！”，然后摇摇头。

‘You have been strangely importunate. If it should appear, after all, that what you have to say does not concern me—and I don’t know how it can, and don’t expect that it will—you will allow me to cut you short with but little ceremony. Say what you have to say, if you please.’
‘你一直很奇怪地纠缠不休。毕竟，如果看起来你要说的话与我无关——而且我不知道怎么会这样，也不指望会这样——你就允许我打断你的话，但没有什么仪式。如果你愿意的话，请说你想说的话。

My Lady, with a careless toss of her screen, turns herself towards the fire again, sitting almost with her back to the young man of the name of Guppy.
夫人不经意地一甩屏风，又把自己转向火边，几乎背对着那个名叫孔雀鱼的年轻人。

‘With your ladyship’s permission, then,’ says the young man, ‘I will now enter on my business. Hem! I am, as I told your ladyship in my first letter, in the law. Being in the law, I have learnt the habit of not committing myself in writing, and therefore I did not mention to your ladyship the name of the firm with which I am connected and in which my standing—and I may add income—is tolerably good. I may now state to your ladyship, in confidence, that the name of that firm is Kenge and Carboy, of Lincoln’s Inn, which may not be altogether unknown to your ladyship in connexion with the case in Chancery of Jarndyce and Jarndyce.’
“那么，如果得到女士的许可，”年轻人说道，“我现在开始处理我的事情了。”哼！正如我在第一封信中告诉女士的那样，我是法律人士。在法律界，我养成了不以书面形式做出承诺的习惯，因此我没有向女士提及与我有联系的公司的名称，并且我在该公司的地位（并且我可能会增加收入）还算可以。好的。现在，我可以向您的女士私下声明，该公司的名称是林肯律师学院的 Kenge and Carboy，您可能并不完全不知道这家公司与贾迪斯和贾迪斯大法官法庭的案件有关。

My Lady’s figure begins to be expressive of some attention. She has ceased to toss the screen and holds it as if she were listening.
夫人的身影开始表现出某种关注。她不再扔屏幕，而是拿着它，仿佛在听。

‘Now, I may say to your ladyship at once,’ says Mr. Guppy, a little emboldened, ‘it is no matter arising out of Jarndyce and Jarndyce that made me so desirous to speak to your ladyship, which conduct I have no doubt did appear, and does appear, obtrusive—in fact, almost blackguardly.’
“现在，我可以立刻对夫人说，”顾比先生有点大胆地说，“无论是贾迪斯还是贾迪斯的事情，都让我如此渴望与夫人交谈，我对此毫不怀疑。”确实显得很唐突——事实上，几乎是无礼的。”

After waiting for a moment to receive some assurance to the contrary, and not receiving any, Mr. Guppy proceeds, ‘If it had been Jarndyce and Jarndyce, I should have gone at once to your ladyship’s solicitor, Mr. Tulkinghorn, of the Fields. I have the pleasure of being acquainted with Mr. Tulkinghorn—at least we move when we meet one another—and if it had been any business of that sort, I should have gone to him.’
等了一会儿，得到了一些相反的保证，但没有得到任何保证，顾比先生继续说道：“如果是贾迪斯和贾迪斯，我会立即去找您夫人的律师，菲尔兹的图金霍恩先生。” 。我很高兴认识图尔金霍恩先生——至少我们一见面就感动了——如果有这样的事情，我应该去找他。

My Lady turns a little round and says, ‘You had better sit down.’
夫人转过身来说道：“你最好坐下来。”

‘Thank your ladyship.’ Mr. Guppy does so. ‘Now, your ladyship’— Mr. Guppy refers to a little slip of paper on which he has made small notes of his line of argument and which seems to involve him in the densest obscurity whenever he looks at it—‘I—Oh, yes!—I place myself entirely in your ladyship’s hands. If your ladyship was to make any complaint to Kenge and Carboy or to Mr. Tulkinghorn of the present visit, I should be placed in a very disagreeable situation. That, I openly admit. Consequently, I rely upon your ladyship’s honour.’
“谢谢夫人。”古比先生照做了。 “现在，夫人，”古比先生指着一张小纸条，他在上面记下了他的论点，每当他看到这张纸条时，他似乎都陷入了最晦涩难懂的境地——“我——哦，是的！——我把自己完全交托在夫人的手中。如果您的女士要向肯格和卡博伊或图尔金霍恩先生对这次访问提出任何抱怨，我就会陷入非常不愉快的境地。对此，我公开承认。因此，我依靠夫人的名誉。

My Lady, with a disdainful gesture of the hand that holds the screen, assures him of his being worth no complaint from her.
夫人用握住屏风的手做出了一个轻蔑的姿势，向他保证他不值得她抱怨。

‘Thank your ladyship,’ says Mr. Guppy; ‘quite satisfactory. Now— I—dash it!—The fact is that I put down a head or two here of the order of the points I thought of touching upon, and they’re written short, and I can’t quite make out what they mean. If your ladyship will excuse me taking it to the window half a moment, I—‘
“谢谢您的女士，”古比先生说道。 ‘相当满意。现在——我——破烂吧！——事实是，我在这里按照我想触及的要点的顺序写下了一两个头，而且它们写得很短，我不太明白它们的意思。如果您的女士能原谅我把它拿到窗边半分钟，我——”

Mr. Guppy, going to the window, tumbles into a pair of love-birds, to whom he says in his confusion, ‘I beg your pardon, I am sure.’ This does not tend to the greater legibility of his notes. He murmurs, growing warm and red and holding the slip of paper now close to his eyes, now a long way off, ‘C.S. What’s C.S. for? Oh! C.S.! Oh, I know! Yes, to be sure!’ And comes back enlightened.
孔雀鱼先生走到窗前，撞见了一对爱情鸟，他困惑地对他们说：“我相信，请原谅。”这并不能提高他的笔记的可读性。他低声说道：“C.S. C.S.有什么用？哦！ CS。！哦，我知道！是的，当然！”回来后恍然大悟。

‘I am not aware,’ says Mr. Guppy, standing midway between my Lady and his chair, ‘whether your ladyship ever happened to hear of, or to see, a young lady of the name of Miss Esther Summerson.’
“我不知道，”顾比先生站在夫人和他的椅子中间，说道，“夫人是否曾经听说过或见过一位名叫埃丝特·萨默森小姐的年轻女士。”

My Lady’s eyes look at him full. ‘I saw a young lady of that name not long ago. This past autumn.’
夫人的眼睛全神贯注地看着他。 “不久前我见过一位叫这个名字的年轻女士。去年秋天。

‘Now, did it strike your ladyship that she was like anybody?’ asks Mr. Guppy, crossing his arms, holding his head on one side, and scratching the corner of his mouth with his memoranda.
“现在，夫人您有没有发现她和其他人一样？”古皮先生问道，他交叉着双臂，把头偏向一侧，用备忘录抓着嘴角。

My Lady removes her eyes from him no more.
夫人的目光不再从他身上移开。

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Not like your ladyship’s family?’
“不像贵夫人的家人吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘I think your ladyship,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘can hardly remember Miss Summerson’s face?’
“我想您的女士，”古比先生说，“几乎不记得萨默森小姐的脸了？”

‘I remember the young lady very well. What has this to do with me?’
“我对这位年轻女士记得很清楚。这跟我有什么关系？

‘Your ladyship, I do assure you that having Miss Summerson’s image imprinted on my ‘eart—which I mention in confidence—I found, when I had the honour of going over your ladyship’s mansion of Chesney Wold while on a short out in the county of Lincolnshire with a friend, such a resemblance between Miss Esther Summerson and your ladyship’s own portrait that it completely knocked me over, so much so that I didn’t at the moment even know what it WAS that knocked me over. And now I have the honour of beholding your ladyship near (I have often, since that, taken the liberty of looking at your ladyship in your carriage in the park, when I dare say you was not aware of me, but I never saw your ladyship so near), it’s really more surprising than I thought it.’
“夫人，我向您保证，萨默森小姐的形象已深深印在我的心上——这是我私下提到的——当我在县里短暂外出时，有幸参观了夫人位于切斯尼沃尔德的宅邸时，我发现了这一点。”和朋友一起去林肯郡，埃丝特·萨默森小姐和您夫人本人的肖像如此相似，这让我彻底震惊了，以至于我当时甚至不知道是什么让我震惊了。现在我有幸在附近看到您的女士（从那时起，我经常冒昧地看着您在公园马车里的女士，当时我敢说您没有意识到我，但我从未见过您）女士这么近），这真的比我想象的更令人惊讶。

Young man of the name of Guppy! There have been times, when ladies lived in strongholds and had unscrupulous attendants within call, when that poor life of yours would NOT have been worth a minute’s purchase, with those beautiful eyes looking at you as they look at this moment.
名叫孔雀鱼的年轻人！有时候，当女士们住在要塞里，有不道德的随从随叫随到时，当你那可怜的生命一分钟都不值钱时，那双美丽的眼睛此刻正在看着你。

My Lady, slowly using her little hand-screen as a fan, asks him again what he supposes that his taste for likenesses has to do with her.
夫人慢慢地将她的小手屏当作扇子，再次问他认为他对相似的品味与她有什么关系。

‘Your ladyship,’ replies Mr. Guppy, again referring to his paper, ‘I am coming to that. Dash these notes! Oh! ‘Mrs. Chadband.’ Yes.’ Mr. Guppy draws his chair a little forward and seats himself again. My Lady reclines in her chair composedly, though with a trifle less of graceful ease than usual perhaps, and never falters in her steady gaze. ‘A—stop a minute, though!’ Mr. Guppy refers again. ‘E.S. twice? Oh, yes! Yes, I see my way now, right on.’
“尊敬的女士，”古比先生回答道，再次提到他的论文，“我正在讨论这个问题。”破折号这些笔记！哦！ '太太。查德班德。“是的。”古比先生把椅子向前拉了一点，然后又坐下了。夫人平静地靠在椅子上，尽管可能比平常少了一点优雅从容，但她坚定的目光从未动摇过。 “啊——不过，等一下！”古比先生再次说道。 ‘E.S.两次？哦是的！是的，我现在明白了，就在眼前。”

Rolling up the slip of paper as an instrument to point his speech with, Mr. Guppy proceeds.
古比先生卷起纸条作为演讲的工具，继续说道。

‘Your ladyship, there is a mystery about Miss Esther Summerson’s birth and bringing up. I am informed of that fact because—which I mention in confidence—I know it in the way of my profession at Kenge and Carboy’s. Now, as I have already mentioned to your ladyship, Miss Summerson’s image is imprinted on my ‘eart. If I could clear this mystery for her, or prove her to be well related, or find that having the honour to be a remote branch of your ladyship’s family she had a right to be made a party in Jarndyce and Jarndyce, why, I might make a sort of a claim upon Miss Summerson to look with an eye of more dedicated favour on my proposals than she has exactly done as yet. In fact, as yet she hasn’t favoured them at all.’
“夫人，埃丝特·萨默森小姐的出生和成长是一个谜。我被告知这一事实是因为——我私下提到过这一点——我以我在 Kenge 和 Carboy’s 的职业方式了解这一点。现在，正如我已经向阁下提到的那样，萨默森小姐的形象已经铭刻在我的“心上”。如果我能为她解开这个谜团，或者证明她有很好的血缘关系，或者发现有幸成为贵夫人家族的一个偏远分支，她有权在加迪斯和加迪斯参加派对，为什么，我可能向萨默森小姐提出某种要求，要求她以比她迄今为止所做的更专注的眼光看待我的建议。事实上，到目前为止，她根本就不喜欢他们。

A kind of angry smile just dawns upon my Lady’s face.
夫人的脸上浮现出一种愤怒的微笑。

‘Now, it’s a very singular circumstance, your ladyship,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘though one of those circumstances that do fall in the way of us professional men—which I may call myself, for though not admitted, yet I have had a present of my articles made to me by Kenge and Carboy, on my mother’s advancing from the principal of her little income the money for the stamp, which comes heavy—that I have encountered the person who lived as servant with the lady who brought Miss Summerson up before Mr. Jarndyce took charge of her. That lady was a Miss Barbary, your ladyship.’
“现在，这是一个非常奇特的情况，夫人，”古皮先生说，“尽管其中一个情况确实会妨碍我们职业人士——我可以称自己为自己，因为虽然没有承认，但我已经经历过肯格和卡博伊送给我的一份我的文章的礼物，是关于我母亲从她微薄的收入中垫付邮票的钱，这钱很重——我遇到了一个和那位带来小姐的女士一起作为仆人生活的人萨默森在贾迪斯先生接管她之前就上任了。那位女士是巴巴里小姐，您的女士。

Is the dead colour on my Lady’s face reflected from the screen which has a green silk ground and which she holds in her raised hand as if she had forgotten it, or is it a dreadful paleness that has fallen on her?
夫人脸上的死色是从她举起的手上举起的绿色丝质屏风上反射出来的，仿佛她已经忘记了它，还是落在她身上的一种可怕的苍白？

‘Did your ladyship,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘ever happen to hear of Miss Barbary?’
“夫人，”古比先生说，“有没有听说过巴巴里小姐？”

‘I don’t know. I think so. Yes.’
'我不知道。我想是这样。是的。'

‘Was Miss Barbary at all connected with your ladyship’s family?’
“巴巴里小姐和您夫人的家人有联系吗？”

My Lady’s lips move, but they utter nothing. She shakes her head.
夫人的嘴唇动了动，但什么也没说。她摇摇头。

‘NOT connected?’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘Oh! Not to your ladyship’s knowledge, perhaps? Ah! But might be? Yes.’ After each of these interrogatories, she has inclined her head. ‘Very good! Now, this Miss Barbary was extremely close—seems to have been extraordinarily close for a female, females being generally (in common life at least) rather given to conversation—and my witness never had an idea whether she possessed a single relative. On one occasion, and only one, she seems to have been confidential to my witness on a single point, and she then told her that the little girl’s real name was not Esther Summerson, but Esther Hawdon.’
“没有连接？”古比先生说。 '哦！也许您女士不知道？啊!但可能是吗？是的。’每次问完之后，她都会歪着头。 '非常好！现在，这位巴巴里小姐非常亲密——对于女性来说似乎非常亲密，女性通常（至少在日常生活中）更喜欢交谈——而我的证人从来不知道她是否有一个亲戚。有一次，而且只有一次，她似乎在某一点上对我的证人保密，然后她告诉她，这个小女孩的真名不是埃丝特·萨默森，而是埃丝特·霍顿。

‘My God!’
'我的上帝！'

Mr. Guppy stares. Lady Dedlock sits before him looking him through, with the same dark shade upon her face, in the same attitude even to the holding of the screen, with her lips a little apart, her brow a little contracted, but for the moment dead. He sees her consciousness return, sees a tremor pass across her frame like a ripple over water, sees her lips shake, sees her compose them by a great effort, sees her force herself back to the knowledge of his presence and of what he has said. All this, so quickly, that her exclamation and her dead condition seem to have passed away like the features of those long-preserved dead bodies sometimes opened up in tombs, which, struck by the air like lightning, vanish in a breath.
古比先生凝视着。戴德洛克夫人坐在他面前，审视着他，脸上带着同样的暗色，甚至拿着屏风的态度也一样，嘴唇微张，眉头微皱，但此刻却死了。他看到她的意识恢复了，看到她的身体像水面上的涟漪一样颤抖，看到她的嘴唇在颤抖，看到她努力地控制着嘴唇，看到她强迫自己重新认识到他的存在和他所说的话。 。这一切来得如此之快，以至于她的惊呼和她的死亡状态似乎都已经过去了，就像那些长期保存的尸体有时在坟墓中打开一样，被空气闪电般击中，转眼间就消失了。

‘Your ladyship is acquainted with the name of Hawdon?’
“夫人知道霍顿这个名字吗？”

‘I have heard it before.’
“我以前听说过。”

‘Name of any collateral or remote branch of your ladyship’s family?’
“您夫人家族的任何旁系或远支的名字？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Now, your ladyship,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘I come to the last point of the case, so far as I have got it up. It’s going on, and I shall gather it up closer and closer as it goes on. Your ladyship must know—if your ladyship don’t happen, by any chance, to know already—that there was found dead at the house of a person named Krook, near Chancery Lane, some time ago, a law-writer in great distress. Upon which law-writer there was an inquest, and which law-writer was an anonymous character, his name being unknown. But, your ladyship, I have discovered very lately that that lawwriter’s name was Hawdon.’
“现在，夫人，”古比先生说，“就我所掌握的情况而言，我现在要谈的是这个案子的最后一点。”它正在发生，随着它的发生，我将越来越仔细地收集它。女士们一定知道——如果女士们万一不知道的话——不久前，在大法官巷附近一个名叫克鲁克的人的家里被发现死了，他是一位处于极度痛苦中的法律作家。对哪位法律作家进行了调查，而哪一位法律作家是匿名人物，他的名字不详。但是，夫人，我最近发现那位律师的名字叫霍顿。”

‘And what is THAT to me?’
“那对我来说又算什么呢？”

‘Aye, your ladyship, that’s the question! Now, your ladyship, a queer thing happened after that man’s death. A lady started up, a disguised lady, your ladyship, who went to look at the scene of action and went to look at his grave. She hired a crossingsweeping boy to show it her. If your ladyship would wish to have the boy produced in corroboration of this statement, I can lay my hand upon him at any time.’
“是啊，夫人，这就是问题所在！女士们，在那个男人死后发生了一件奇怪的事情。一位女士站了起来，一位乔装打扮的女士，您的女士，她去看了行动现场，还去看了他的坟墓。她雇了一个清扫道路的男孩来给她看。如果夫人阁下希望生出这个男孩来证实这一说法，我可以随时把手放在他身上。

The wretched boy is nothing to my Lady, and she does NOT wish to have him produced.
这个可怜的男孩对我的女士来说毫无意义，她也不希望他出生。

‘Oh, I assure your ladyship it’s a very queer start indeed,’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘If you was to hear him tell about the rings that sparkled on her fingers when she took her glove off, you’d think it quite romantic.’
“哦，我向女士保证，这确实是一个非常奇怪的开始，”古皮先生说。 “如果你听他讲述当她脱下手套时，她手指上闪闪发光的戒指，你会觉得这很浪漫。”

There are diamonds glittering on the hand that holds the screen. My Lady trifles with the screen and makes them glitter more, again with that expression which in other times might have been so dangerous to the young man of the name of Guppy.
握住屏幕的手上有钻石闪闪发光。我的夫人摆弄着屏幕，让它们更加闪闪发光，同样的表情在其他时候可能对那个名叫孔雀鱼的年轻人来说是如此危险。

‘It was supposed, your ladyship, that he left no rag or scrap behind him by which he could be possibly identified. But he did. He left a bundle of old letters.’
“夫人，据推测，他身后没有留下任何可以辨认出他身份的破布或碎片。但他做到了。他留下了一叠旧信件。

The screen still goes, as before. All this time her eyes never once release him.
屏幕仍然像以前一样。一直以来，她的目光都没有离开过他。

‘They were taken and secreted. And to-morrow night, your ladyship, they will come into my possession.’
“它们被带走并被秘密保存。夫人，明天晚上，它们就会归我所有。”

‘Still I ask you, what is this to me?’
“我还是问你，这与我有什么关系？”

‘Your ladyship, I conclude with that.’ Mr. Guppy rises. ‘If you think there’s enough in this chain of circumstances put together— in the undoubted strong likeness of this young lady to your ladyship, which is a positive fact for a jury; in her having been brought up by Miss Barbary; in Miss Barbary stating Miss Summerson’s real name to be Hawdon; in your ladyship’s knowing both these names VERY WELL; and in Hawdon’s dying as he did—to give your ladyship a family interest in going further into the case, I will bring these papers here. I don’t know what they are, except that they are old letters: I have never had them in my posession yet. I will bring those papers here as soon as I get them and go over them for the first time with your ladyship. I have told your ladyship my object. I have told your ladyship that I should be placed in a very disagreeable situation if any complaint was made, and all is in strict confidence.’
“夫人，我就这样结束吧。”古比先生站了起来。 “如果你认为这一系列的情况放在一起就足够了——这位年轻的女士无疑与您的夫人非常相似，这对陪审团来说是一个积极的事实；她是由巴巴里小姐抚养长大的；在巴巴里小姐中，萨默森小姐的真名是霍顿；夫人，您对这两个名字都很熟悉；在霍顿即将去世的情况下——为了让夫人阁下有兴趣进一步调查此案，我将把这些文件带到这里。我不知道它们是什么，只知道它们是旧信：我还从未拥有过它们。我一拿到这些文件就会把它们带到这里，并与夫人一起第一次检查。我已经告诉夫人我的目的了。我已经告诉夫人，如果有人提出任何投诉，我的处境就会非常不愉快，而且一切都严格保密。”

Is this the full purpose of the young man of the name of Guppy, or has he any other? Do his words disclose the length, breadth, depth, of his object and suspicion in coming here; or if not, what do they hide? He is a match for my Lady there. She may look at him, but he can look at the table and keep that witness-box face of his from telling anything.
这就是那个名叫孔雀鱼的年轻人的全部目的，还是另有目的？他的话是否透露了他来这里的目的和怀疑的长度、广度、深度？或者如果不是，他们隐藏了什么？他很适合我的女士。她可以看着他，但他可以看着桌子，让他那张证人席上的脸不说出任何事情。

‘You may bring the letters,’ says my Lady, ‘if you choose.’
“如果你愿意的话，你可以带上这些信，”夫人说道。

‘Your ladyship is not very encouraging, upon my word and honour,’ says Mr. Guppy, a little injured.
“我以我的名誉担保，您的女士不太鼓舞人心，”顾比先生说，他有点受伤。

‘You may bring the letters,’ she repeats in the same tone, ‘if you —please.’
“你可以把这些信带来，”她用同样的语气重复道，“如果你——请的话。”

‘It shall he done. I wish your ladyship good day.’
‘他一定会做到的。祝您女士有美好的一天。

On a table near her is a rich bauble of a casket, barred and clasped like an old strong-chest. She, looking at him still, takes it to her and unlocks it.
她旁边的桌子上放着一个精美的小盒子，上面有栅栏，扣得紧紧的，就像一个古老的坚固的箱子一样。她仍然看着他，把它拿过来并打开。

‘Oh! I assure your ladyship I am not actuated by any motives of that sort,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘and I couldn’t accept anything of the kind. I wish your ladyship good day, and am much obliged to you all the same.’
'哦！我向女士保证，我不会受到任何此类动机的驱使，”古皮先生说，“而且我不能接受任何此类行为。我祝您女士有美好的一天，但我仍然非常感谢您。

So the young man makes his bow and goes downstairs, where the supercilious Mercury does not consider himself called upon to leave his Olympus by the hall-fire to let the young man out.
于是年轻人鞠了一躬，下了楼，傲慢的墨丘利认为自己没有被要求离开他的奥林匹斯山，在大厅的火旁放年轻人出去。

As Sir Leicester basks in his library and dozes over his newspaper, is there no influence in the house to startle him, not to say to make the very trees at Chesney Wold fling up their knotted arms, the very portraits frown, the very armour stir?
当莱斯特爵士在他的图书馆里晒太阳，看着报纸打瞌睡时，房子里没有任何影响力让他吃惊，更不用说让切斯尼沃尔德的树木举起打结的手臂，让肖像皱眉，让盔甲搅拌？

No. Words, sobs, and cries are but air, and air is so shut in and shut out throughout the house in town that sounds need be uttered trumpet-tongued indeed by my Lady in her chamber to carry any faint vibration to Sir Leicester’s ears; and yet this cry is in the house, going upward from a wild figure on its knees.
不。言语、抽泣和哭声都不过是空气，镇上整栋房子里的空气都被封闭和隔绝，以至于我的女士在她的房间里确实需要用喇叭声发出声音，才能将任何微弱的振动传递到莱斯特爵士的耳朵里;然而，这呼喊却在屋子里响起，从一个跪着的狂野人物身上传出。

‘O my child, my child! Not dead in the first hours of her life, as my cruel sister told me, but sternly nurtured by her, after she had renounced me and my name! O my child, O my child!’
‘哦，我的孩子，我的孩子！正如我残忍的姐姐告诉我的那样，她并没有在生命的最初几个小时里就死了，而是在她放弃了我和我的名字之后，被她严格地养育了！哦，我的孩子，哦，我的孩子！

CHAPTER XXX
第三章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

Richard had been gone away some time when a visitor came to pass a few days with us. It was an elderly lady. It was Mrs. Woodcourt, who, having come from Wales to stay with Mrs. Bayham Badger and having written to my guardian, ‘by her son Allan’s desire,’ to report that she had heard from him and that he was well ‘and sent his kind remembrances to all of us,’ had been invited by my guardian to make a visit to Bleak House. She stayed with us nearly three weeks. She took very kindly to me and was extremely confidential, so much so that sometimes she almost made me uncomfortable. I had no right, I knew very well, to be uncomfortable because she confided in me, and I felt it was unreasonable; still, with all I could do, I could not quite help it.
理查德已经离开一段时间了，这时一位访客来和我们一起住了几天。那是一位上了年纪的女士。那是伍德考特夫人，她从威尔士来到贝厄姆·獾夫人身边，“按照她儿子艾伦的意愿”，她写信给我的监护人，报告说她收到了他的消息，他的情况很好，“并被派去”。我的监护人邀请他去荒凉山庄参观。她和我们一起待了将近三个星期。她对我非常友善，而且非常保密，以至于有时她几乎让我感到不舒服。我很清楚，我没有权利因为她向我吐露心声而感到不舒服，而且我觉得这是不合理的。尽管如此，我尽了一切努力，还是无法控制自己。

She was such a sharp little lady and used to sit with her hands folded in each other looking so very watchful while she talked to me that perhaps I found that rather irksome. Or perhaps it was her being so upright and trim, though I don’t think it was that, because I thought that quaintly pleasant. Nor can it have been the general expression of her face, which was very sparkling and pretty for an old lady. I don’t know what it was. Or at least if I do now, I thought I did not then. Or at least—but it don’t matter.
她是一位非常敏锐的小女士，当她和我说话时，她总是双手交叉坐着，看起来非常警惕，也许我觉得这很令人厌烦。或者也许是因为她是如此的正直和整洁，虽然我不认为是那样，因为我觉得那是一种古怪的令人愉快的感觉。也不是她脸上的一般表情，对于一位老太太来说，这是非常闪亮和美丽的。我不知道那是什么。或者至少如果我现在这样做了，我想我当时没有这样做。或者至少——但这并不重要。

Of a night when I was going upstairs to bed, she would invite me into her room, where she sat before the fire in a great chair; and, dear me, she would tell me about Morgan ap-Kerrig until I was quite low-spirited! Sometimes she recited a few verses from Crumlinwallinwer and the Mewlinn-willinwodd (if those are the right names, which I dare say they are not), and would become quite fiery with the sentiments they expressed. Though I never knew what they were (being in Welsh), further than that they were highly eulogistic of the lineage of Morgan ap-Kerrig.
有一天晚上，当我上楼睡觉时，她会邀请我去她的房间，她坐在火炉前的一把大椅子上；而且，亲爱的我，她会告诉我有关摩根·阿普·克里格的事，直到我情绪低落为止！有时她会背诵一些《Crumlinwallinwer》和《Mewlinn-willinwodd》中的诗句（如果这些是正确的名字，我敢说它们不是），并且会因它们所表达的情感而变得非常激烈。虽然我从来不知道他们是什么（威尔士语），但除此之外，他们还高度赞扬摩根·阿普·克里格的血统。

‘So, Miss Summerson,’ she would say to me with stately triumph, ‘this, you see, is the fortune inherited by my son. Wherever my son goes, he can claim kindred with Ap-Kerrig. He may not have money, but he always has what is much better—family, my dear.’
“所以，萨默森小姐，”她会带着庄严的胜利对我说，“你看，这是我儿子继承的财产。”无论我的儿子走到哪里，他都可以声称与阿普-克里格有血缘关系。他可能没有钱，但他总是拥有更好的东西——家人，亲爱的。

I had my doubts of their caring so very much for Morgan ap-Kerrig in India and China, but of course I never expressed them. I used to say it was a great thing to be so highly connected.
我对他们对印度和中国的 Morgan ap-Kerrig 如此关心表示怀疑，但当然我从未表达过。我曾经说过，如此紧密的联系是一件很棒的事情。

‘It IS, my dear, a great thing,’ Mrs. Woodcourt would reply. ‘It has its disadvantages; my son’s choice of a wife, for instance, is limited by it, but the matrimonial choice of the royal family is limited in much the same manner.’
“亲爱的，这是一件伟大的事情，”伍德考特夫人会回答道。 “它有它的缺点；例如，我儿子对妻子的选择就受到它的限制，但王室的婚姻选择也受到同样的限制。

Then she would pat me on the arm and smooth my dress, as much as to assure me that she had a good opinion of me, the distance between us notwithstanding.
然后她会拍拍我的手臂，抚平我的衣服，尽可能地向我保证她对我有很好的评价，尽管我们之间的距离很远。

‘Poor Mr. Woodcourt, my dear,’ she would say, and always with some emotion, for with her lofty pedigree she had a very affectionate heart, ‘was descended from a great Highland family, the MacCoorts of MacCoort. He served his king and country as an officer in the Royal Highlanders, and he died on the field. My son is one of the last representatives of two old families. With the blessing of heaven he will set them up again and unite them with another old family.’
“可怜的伍德考特先生，亲爱的，”她总是带着某种情感说，因为她有着崇高的血统，她有一颗非常深情的心，“他是高地一个伟大家族麦考特家族的后裔。”他作为皇家高地军官，为国王和国家服务，最后战死沙场。我的儿子是两个古老家族最后的代表之一。在上天的祝福下，他将重新安置他们，并将他们与另一个古老的家庭团结起来。

It was in vain for me to try to change the subject, as I used to try, only for the sake of novelty or perhaps because—but I need not be so particular. Mrs. Woodcourt never would let me change it.
我试图改变话题是徒劳的，就像我以前那样，只是为了新奇，或者也许是因为——但我不需要那么挑剔。伍德考特夫人从来不让我改变它。

‘My dear,’ she said one night, ‘you have so much sense and you look at the world in a quiet manner so superior to your time of life that it is a comfort to me to talk to you about these family matters of mine. You don’t know much of my son, my dear; but you know enough of him, I dare say, to recollect him?’
“亲爱的，”一天晚上，她说道，“你很有理智，你看待世界的方式比你所处的时代更安静，所以能和你谈论我的这些家庭事务对我来说是一种安慰。” 。亲爱的，你对我儿子了解不多；但我敢说，你对他足够了解，能够回忆起他吗？

‘Yes, ma’am. I recollect him.’
'是的女士。我记得他。

‘Yes, my dear. Now, my dear, I think you are a judge of character, and I should like to have your opinion of him.’
'是的亲爱的。现在，亲爱的，我认为你是一个性格判断者，我想听听你对他的看法。

‘Oh, Mrs. Woodcourt,’ said I, ‘that is so difficult!’
“噢，伍德考特夫人，”我说，“这太难了！”

‘Why is it so difficult, my dear?’ she returned. ‘I don’t see it myself.’
“为什么这么难，亲爱的？”她回答道。 “我自己没看到。”

‘To give an opinion—‘
“提出意见——”

‘On so slight an acquaintance, my dear. THAT’S true.’
“就这么一点点认识，亲爱的。这是真的。'

I didn’t mean that, because Mr. Woodcourt had been at our house a good deal altogether and had become quite intimate with my guardian. I said so, and added that he seemed to be very clever in his profession—we thought—and that his kindness and gentleness to Miss Flite were above all praise.
我不是这个意思，因为伍德考特先生经常来我们家，并且与我的监护人变得非常亲密。我这么说，并补充说，他在自己的职业上似乎非常聪明——我们认为——而且他对弗利特小姐的善良和温柔首先值得赞扬。

‘You do him justice!’ said Mrs. Woodcourt, pressing my hand. ‘You define him exactly. Allan is a dear fellow, and in his profession faultless. I say it, though I am his mother. Still, I must confess he is not without faults, love.’
“你公正地对待他了！”伍德考特夫人握着我的手说道。 ‘你准确地定义了他。艾伦是一位可爱的小伙子，在他的职业中无可挑剔。我这么说，虽然我是他的母亲。尽管如此，我必须承认他并非没有缺点，亲爱的。

‘None of us are,’ said I.
“我们谁都不是，”我说。

‘Ah! But his really are faults that he might correct, and ought to correct,’ returned the sharp old lady, sharply shaking her head. ‘I am so much attached to you that I may confide in you, my dear, as a third party wholly disinterested, that he is fickleness itself.’
'啊！但他确实有一些缺点，他可以改正，也应该改正。”敏锐的老妇人猛地摇头，回答道。 “我是如此依恋你，亲爱的，作为一个完全无私的第三方，我可以向你倾诉，他本身就是善变的。”

I said I should have thought it hardly possible that he could have been otherwise than constant to his profession and zealous in the pursuit of it, judging from the reputation he had earned.
我说，从他所赢得的声誉来看，我本以为他不可能不忠于自己的职业并热忱地追求它。

‘You are right again, my dear,’ the old lady retorted, ‘but I don’t refer to his profession, look you.’
“你又说对了，亲爱的，”老太太反驳道，“但我指的不是他的职业，你看。”

‘Oh!’ said I.
“哦！”我说。

‘No,’ said she. ‘I refer, my dear, to his social conduct. He is always paying trivial attentions to young ladies, and always has been, ever since he was eighteen. Now, my dear, he has never really cared for any one of them and has never meant in doing this to do any harm or to express anything but politeness and good nature. Still, it’s not right, you know; is it?’
“不，”她说。 “亲爱的，我指的是他的社交行为。他总是对年轻女士给予琐碎的关注，从十八岁起就一直如此。现在，亲爱的，他从来没有真正关心过他们中的任何一个人，也从来没有想过这样做是为了造成任何伤害，或者表达除了礼貌和善良之外的任何东西。不过，你知道，这是不对的；是吗？'

‘No,’ said I, as she seemed to wait for me.
“不，”我说，因为她似乎在等我。

‘And it might lead to mistaken notions, you see, my dear.’
“这可能会导致错误的观念，你看，亲爱的。”

I supposed it might.
我以为可能是这样

‘Therefore, I have told him many times that he really should be more careful, both in justice to himself and in justice to others. And he has always said, ‘Mother, I will be; but you know me better than anybody else does, and you know I mean no harm—in short, mean nothing.’ All of which is very true, my dear, but is no justification. However, as he is now gone so far away and for an indefinite time, and as he will have good opportunities and introductions, we may consider this past and gone. And you, my dear,’ said the old lady, who was now all nods and smiles, ‘regarding your dear self, my love?’
因此，我多次告诉他，他真的应该更加小心，无论是对自己，还是对他人。他总是说：‘妈妈，我会的；但你比任何人都更了解我，你知道我没有恶意——简而言之，没有任何恶意。”所有这些都是真的，亲爱的，但没有任何理由。然而，由于他现在已经离开了很远的地方，并且无限期地离开了，而且他将有很好的机会和介绍，我们可以认为这已经过去了。那么你呢，亲爱的，”老妇人现在满脸点头微笑，“说到你亲爱的自己，我的爱人？”

‘Me, Mrs. Woodcourt?’
“我，伍德考特夫人？”

‘Not to be always selfish, talking of my son, who has gone to seek his fortune and to find a wife—when do you mean to seek YOUR fortune and to find a husband, Miss Summerson? Hey, look you! Now you blush!’
“不要总是自私，谈论我的儿子，他已经去寻找自己的财富并寻找妻子了——你打算什么时候寻找你的财富并找到一个丈夫，萨默森小姐？嘿，看你！现在你脸红了！

I don’t think I did blush—at all events, it was not important if I did—and I said my present fortune perfectly contented me and I had no wish to change it.
我不认为我脸红了——不管怎样，脸红了也不重要——而且我说我现在的财富让我很满足，我不想改变它。

‘Shall I tell you what I always think of you and the fortune yet to come for you, my love?’ said Mrs. Woodcourt.
“我要告诉你我一直以来对你的看法，以及未来的好运吗，我的爱人？”伍德考特夫人说道。

‘If you believe you are a good prophet,’ said I.
“如果你相信你是一个好先知，”我说。

‘Why, then, it is that you will marry some one very rich and very worthy, much older—five and twenty years, perhaps—than yourself. And you will be an excellent wife, and much beloved, and very happy.’
“那么，你会嫁给一个非常富有、非常有价值、比你年长很多——也许五岁到二十岁的人。”你将成为一位出色的妻子，深受爱戴，而且非常幸福。”

‘That is a good fortune,’ said I. ‘But why is it to be mine?’
“真是好运气，”我说，“但为什么它会是我的呢？”

‘My dear,’ she returned, ‘there’s suitability in it—you are so busy, and so neat, and so peculiarly situated altogether that there’s suitability in it, and it will come to pass. And nobody, my love, will congratulate you more sincerely on such a marriage than I shall.’
“亲爱的，”她回答道，“这很合适——你如此忙碌，如此整洁，而且位置如此奇特，所以这是合适的，它会实现的。”亲爱的，没有人会比我更真诚地祝贺你的婚姻。

It was curious that this should make me uncomfortable, but I think it did. I know it did. It made me for some part of that night uncomfortable. I was so ashamed of my folly that I did not like to confess it even to Ada, and that made me more uncomfortable still. I would have given anything not to have been so much in the bright old lady’s confidence if I could have possibly declined it. It gave me the most inconsistent opinions of her. At one time I thought she was a story-teller, and at another time that she was the pink of truth. Now I suspected that she was very cunning, next moment I believed her honest Welsh heart to be perfectly innocent and simple. And after all, what did it matter to me, and why did it matter to me? Why could not I, going up to bed with my basket of keys, stop to sit down by her fire and accommodate myself for a little while to her, at least as well as to anybody else, and not trouble myself about the harmless things she said to me? Impelled towards her, as I certainly was, for I was very anxious that she should like me and was very glad indeed that she did, why should I harp afterwards, with actual distress and pain, on every word she said and weigh it over and over again in twenty scales? Why was it so worrying to me to have her in our house, and confidential to me every night, when I yet felt that it was better and safer somehow that she should be there than anywhere else? These were perplexities and contradictions that I could not account for. At least, if I could—but I shall come to all that by and by, and it is mere idleness to go on about it now.
奇怪的是，这会让我感到不舒服，但我认为确实如此。我知道确实如此。那天晚上的某些时候，这让我感到不舒服。我为自己的愚蠢感到羞愧，甚至不愿意向艾达承认，这让我更加不舒服。如果我可以拒绝的话，我愿意付出任何代价来不让那位聪明的老太太如此信任我。这给了我对她最不一致的看法。有一段时间我认为她是一个讲故事的人，而另一次我认为她是真理的粉红色。现在我怀疑她很狡猾，下一刻我相信她那颗诚实的威尔士心是天真单纯的。毕竟，这对我来说重要什么，为什么对我重要？为什么我不能带着一篮子钥匙上床睡觉，停下来在她的火边坐下来，让自己适应她，至少也适应其他任何人，而不是为她那些无害的事情而烦恼。对我说？我确实是被逼着走向她的，因为我非常渴望她会喜欢我，而且确实很高兴她喜欢我，为什么我要在事后带着真正的痛苦和痛苦，对她说的每一个字喋喋不休，权衡利弊，再以二十个音阶重来一遍？当我觉得她呆在家里比在其他地方更好、更安全时，为什么让她住在我们家，每天晚上都对我保密，让我如此担心？这些都是我无法解释的困惑和矛盾。至少，如果我可以的话——但是我会慢慢地讲到这一切，现在再继续讨论这件事纯属无聊。

So when Mrs. Woodcourt went away, I was sorry to lose her but was relieved too. And then Caddy Jellyby came down, and Caddy brought such a packet of domestic news that it gave us abundant occupation.
因此，当伍德考特夫人离开时，我为失去她感到遗憾，但也松了口气。然后凯迪杰利比下来了，凯迪带来了这样一包国内新闻，这给我们带来了充足的工作。

First Caddy declared (and would at first declare nothing else) that I was the best adviser that ever was known. This, my pet said, was no news at all; and this, I said, of course, was nonsense. Then Caddy told us that she was going to be married in a month and that if Ada and I would be her bridesmaids, she was the happiest girl in the world. To be sure, this was news indeed; and I thought we never should have done talking about it, we had so much to say to Caddy, and Caddy had so much to say to us.
球童首先宣布（并且一开始不会宣布任何其他事情）我是有史以来最好的顾问。我的宠物说，这根本不是什么新闻；我说，这当然是无稽之谈。然后凯迪告诉我们，她一个月后就要结婚了，如果我和艾达做她的伴娘，她就是世界上最幸福的女孩。平心而论，这确实是新闻。我认为我们根本不应该谈论这件事，我们有很多话要对凯迪说，凯迪也有很多话要对我们说。

It seemed that Caddy’s unfortunate papa had got over his bankruptcy—‘gone through the Gazette,’ was the expression Caddy used, as if it were a tunnel—with the general clemency and commiseration of his creditors, and had got rid of his affairs in some blessed manner without succeeding in understanding them, and had given up everything he possessed (which was not worth much, I should think, to judge from the state of the furniture), and had satisfied every one concerned that he could do no more, poor man. So, he had been honourably dismissed to ‘the office’ to begin the world again. What he did at the office, I never knew; Caddy said he was a ‘custom-house and general agent,’ and the only thing I ever understood about that business was that when he wanted money more than usual he went to the docks to look for it, and hardly ever found it.
凯迪不幸的爸爸似乎已经从破产的阴影中走出来了——凯迪用“通过公报”这样的说法，仿佛这是一条隧道——带着债权人的普遍宽大和同情，并在某种受祝福的方式，但没有成功地理解它们，并放弃了他所拥有的一切（我想，从家具的状态来判断，这并没有多大价值），并且让所有有关的人都满意，他不能再做更多的事情，悲惨的人。于是，他被光荣地解雇到“办公室”，重新开始新的世界。我从来不知道他在办公室做什么；凯迪说他是一名“海关和总代理”，而我对这项业务唯一了解的是，当他比平时更需要钱时，他会去码头寻找，但几乎找不到。

As soon as her papa had tranquillized his mind by becoming this shorn lamb, and they had removed to a furnished lodging in Hatton Garden (where I found the children, when I afterwards went there, cutting the horse hair out of the seats of the chairs and choking themselves with it), Caddy had brought about a meeting between him and old Mr. Turveydrop; and poor Mr. Jellyby, being very humble and meek, had deferred to Mr. Turveydrop’s deportment so submissively that they had become excellent friends. By degrees, old Mr. Turveydrop, thus familiarized with the idea of his son’s marriage, had worked up his parental feelings to the height of contemplating that event as being near at hand and had given his gracious consent to the young couple commencing housekeeping at the academy in Newman Street when they would.
当她的爸爸通过变成这只剪了毛的羔羊来平静自己的心情后，他们就搬到了哈顿花园的一间带家具的住处（我在那里找到了孩子们，当我后来去那里时，剪掉了椅子座位上的马毛）卡迪促成了他和老特维德罗普先生的会面。可怜的杰利比先生非常谦虚、温顺，他对特维德罗普先生的举止非常顺从，以至于他们成了极好的朋友。渐渐地，特维德罗普老先生对儿子结婚的事了如指掌，他作为父母的感情已经达到了顶峰，认为这件事即将发生，并慷慨地同意这对年轻夫妇开始在家里做家务。当他们愿意时，他们会在纽曼街的学院。

‘And your papa, Caddy. What did he say?’
“还有你的爸爸，凯迪。他说什么？'

‘Oh! Poor Pa,’ said Caddy, ‘only cried and said he hoped we might get on better than he and Ma had got on. He didn’t say so before Prince, he only said so to me. And he said, ‘My poor girl, you have not been very well taught how to make a home for your husband, but unless you mean with all your heart to strive to do it, you bad better murder him than marry him—if you really love him.’’
'哦！可怜的爸爸，”凯迪说，“只是哭着说他希望我们能比他和妈妈相处得更好。他没有在Prince面前这么说过，他只对我这么说过。他说：“我可怜的女孩，你没有被很好地教导如何为你的丈夫建立一个家，但除非你全心全意地努力做到这一点，否则你最好杀了他，而不是嫁给他——如果你真的很爱他。”

‘And how did you reassure him, Caddy?’
“凯迪，你是怎么让他放心的？”

‘Why, it was very distressing, you know, to see poor Pa so low and hear him say such terrible things, and I couldn’t help crying myself. But I told him that I DID mean it with all my heart and that I hoped our house would be a place for him to come and find some comfort in of an evening and that I hoped and thought I could be a better daughter to him there than at home. Then I mentioned Peepy’s coming to stay with me, and then Pa began to cry again and said the children were Indians.’
“哎呀，你知道，看到可怜的爸爸如此沮丧，听他说这些可怕的话，我感到非常痛苦，我自己也忍不住哭了。但我告诉他，我确实是真心实意的，我希望我们的房子能成为他晚上来这里寻求安慰的地方，我希望并认为我可以在那里成为他更好的女儿比在家里。然后我提到皮皮要来和我住在一起，然后爸爸又开始哭，说孩子们是印第安人。

‘Indians, Caddy?’
“印第安人，凯迪？”

‘Yes,’ said Caddy, ‘wild Indians. And Pa said’—here she began to sob, poor girl, not at all like the happiest girl in the world— ‘that he was sensible the best thing that could happen to them was their being all tomahawked together.’
“是的，”凯迪说，“野生印第安人。”爸爸说——说到这里她开始抽泣，可怜的女孩，一点也不像世界上最幸福的女孩——“他很明白，发生在他们身上最好的事情就是他们一起被战斧砍死。”

Ada suggested that it was comfortable to know that Mr. Jellyby did not mean these destructive sentiments.
艾达表示，知道杰利比先生并不是故意表达这些破坏性的情绪，这让她感到很安心。

‘No, of course I know Pa wouldn’t like his family to be weltering in their blood,’ said Caddy, ‘but he means that they are very unfortunate in being Ma’s children and that he is very unfortunate in being Ma’s husband; and I am sure that’s true, though it seems unnatural to say so.’
“不，我当然知道爸爸不希望他的家人沾染上他们的血统，”凯迪说，“但他的意思是，他们是妈妈的孩子，他是非常不幸的，而他是妈妈的丈夫，是非常不幸的；我确信这是真的，尽管这么说似乎不自然。

I asked Caddy if Mrs. Jellyby knew that her wedding-day was fixed.
我问凯蒂杰利比夫人是否知道她的婚礼日期已经确定。

‘Oh! You know what Ma is, Esther,’ she returned. ‘It’s impossible to say whether she knows it or not. She has been told it often enough; and when she IS told it, she only gives me a placid look, as if I was I don’t know what—a steeple in the distance,’ said Caddy with a sudden idea; ‘and then she shakes her head and says ‘Oh, Caddy, Caddy, what a tease you are!’ and goes on with the Borrioboola letters.’
'哦！你知道妈妈是什么，艾丝特，”她回答道。 ‘很难说她是否知道。她已经听够了这句话了。当她告诉我这件事时，她只是平静地看了我一眼，就好像我是——我不知道是什么——远处的一座尖塔。”卡迪突然灵机一动说道。 “然后她摇摇头说‘哦，凯迪，凯迪，你真是个逗人的人！’然后继续写博里奥布拉的信。”

‘And about your wardrobe, Caddy?’ said I. For she was under no restraint with us.
“凯迪，你的衣柜呢？”我问道。因为她和我们在一起时不受任何约束。

‘Well, my dear Esther,’’ she returned, drying her eyes, ‘I must do the best I can and trust to my dear Prince never to have an unkind remembrance of my coming so shabbily to him. If the question concerned an outfit for Borrioboola, Ma would know all about it and would be quite excited. Being what it is, she neither knows nor cares.’
“好吧，我亲爱的艾丝特，”她擦干眼睛回答道，“我必须尽我所能，相信我亲爱的王子，我永远不会对我如此寒酸地来到他身边有不善的记忆。如果问题涉及博里奥布拉的服装，妈妈会知道一切，并且会非常兴奋。事实就是如此，她既不知道也不关心。

Caddy was not at all deficient in natural affection for her mother, but mentioned this with tears as an undeniable fact, which I am afraid it was. We were sorry for the poor dear girl and found so much to admire in the good disposition which had survived under such discouragement that we both at once (I mean Ada and I) proposed a little scheme that made her perfectly joyful. This was her staying with us for three weeks, my staying with her for one, and our all three contriving and cutting out, and repairing, and sewing, and saving, and doing the very best we could think of to make the most of her stock. My guardian being as pleased with the idea as Caddy was, we took her home next day to arrange the matter and brought her out again in triumph with her boxes and all the purchases that could be squeezed out of a ten-pound note, which Mr. Jellyby had found in the docks I suppose, but which he at all events gave her. What my guardian would not have given her if we had encouraged him, it would be difficult to say, but we thought it right to compound for no more than her wedding-dress and bonnet. He agreed to this compromise, and if Caddy had ever been happy in her life, she was happy when we sat down to work.
凯蒂对母亲的感情一点也不缺乏，只是含着泪提到这一点，这是无可否认的事实，恐怕确实如此。我们为这个可怜的亲爱的女孩感到难过，并发现她在如此沮丧的情况下幸存下来的良好性格非常值得钦佩，因此我们俩（我是指艾达和我）立即提出了一个让她非常高兴的小计划。这是她和我们一起住了三个星期，我和她一起住了一周，我们三个人一起设计、剪裁、修理、缝纫、节省，并尽我们所能想到的最好的方式来充分利用她库存。我的监护人和凯蒂一样对这个想法感到满意，第二天我们带她回家安排这件事，并带着她的盒子和所有可以从十英镑钞票中挤出来的东西凯旋地再次带她出去。我想杰利比是在码头找到的，但他无论如何都给了她。如果我们鼓励我的监护人，他不会给她什么，这很难说，但我们认为，只为她的婚纱和帽子而复合是正确的。他同意了这种妥协，如果凯迪一生幸福的话，当我们坐下来工作时她也会很高兴。

She was clumsy enough with her needle, poor girl, and pricked her fingers as much as she had been used to ink them. She could not help reddening a little now and then, partly with the smart and partly with vexation at being able to do no better, but she soon got over that and began to improve rapidly. So day after day she, and my darling, and my little maid Charley, and a milliner out of the town, and I, sat hard at work, as pleasantly as possible.
可怜的女孩，她用针的方式实在是太笨拙了，她的手指被刺破了，就像她以前在手指上涂墨水一样。她不时地忍不住脸红了一点，一半是聪明，一半是因为自己无法做得更好而烦恼，但她很快就克服了这一点，并开始迅速进步。就这样，日复一日，她、我的宝贝、我的小女仆查理、城外的一位女帽商，还有我，都尽可能愉快地埋头工作。

Over and above this, Caddy was very anxious ‘to learn housekeeping,’ as she said. Now, mercy upon us! The idea of her learning housekeeping of a person of my vast experience was such a joke that I laughed, and coloured up, and fell into a comical confusion when she proposed it. However, I said, ‘Caddy, I am sure you are very welcome to learn anything that you can learn of ME, my dear,’ and I showed her all my books and methods and all my fidgety ways. You would have supposed that I was showing her some wonderful inventions, by her study of them; and if you had seen her, whenever I jingled my housekeeping keys, get up and attend me, certainly you might have thought that there never was a greater imposter than I with a blinder follower than Caddy Jellyby.
除此之外，正如她所说，凯迪非常渴望“学习家务”。现在，怜悯我们吧！她让我这个经验丰富的人学习家务的想法简直是个笑话，当她提出这个想法时，我笑了，脸色红了，陷入了滑稽的困惑中。然而，我说，‘凯迪，我相信非常欢迎你向我学习任何你能学到的东西，亲爱的，’我向她展示了我所有的书和方法以及我所有烦躁的方式。你可能会认为我正在向她展示一些奇妙的发明，通过她对它们的研究；但事实并非如此。如果你见过她，每当我摇动我的家务钥匙，站起来照顾我时，你肯定会认为没有比我更大的冒名顶替者和比凯迪·杰利比更盲目的追随者了。

So what with working and housekeeping, and lessons to Charley, and backgammon in the evening with my guardian, and duets with Ada, the three weeks slipped fast away. Then I went home with Caddy to see what could be done there, and Ada and Charley remained behind to take care of my guardian.
那么，工作、家务、给查理上课、晚上和我的监护人玩双陆棋、和艾达二重唱，三个星期很快就过去了。然后我和凯迪一起回家看看能做些什么，艾达和查理留下来照顾我的监护人。

When I say I went home with Caddy, I mean to the furnished lodging in Hatton Garden. We went to Newman Street two or three times, where preparations were in progress too—a good many, I observed, for enhancing the comforts of old Mr. Turveydrop, and a few for putting the newly married couple away cheaply at the top of the house—but our great point was to make the furnished lodging decent for the wedding-breakfast and to imbue Mrs. Jellyby beforehand with some faint sense of the occasion.
当我说我和凯迪一起回家时，我指的是哈顿花园带家具的住所。我们去了纽曼街两三次，那里的准备工作也在进行中——据我观察，很多准备工作是为了让老特维德罗普先生更加舒适，还有一些准备工作是为了把这对新婚夫妇便宜地安置在顶层。房子——但我们的重点是让配备家具的住所适合举行婚礼早餐，并事先让杰利比太太对这个场合有一些隐约的了解。

The latter was the more difficult thing of the two because Mrs. Jellyby and an unwholesome boy occupied the front sitting-room (the back one was a mere closet), and it was littered down with wastepaper and Borrioboolan documents, as an untidy stable might be littered with straw. Mrs. Jellyby sat there all day drinking strong coffee, dictating, and holding Borrioboolan interviews by appointment. The unwholesome boy, who seemed to me to be going into a decline, took his meals out of the house. When Mr. Jellyby came home, he usually groaned and went down into the kitchen. There he got something to eat if the servant would give him anything, and then, feeling that he was in the way, went out and walked about Hatton Garden in the wet. The poor children scrambled up and tumbled down the house as they had always been accustomed to do.
后者是这两件事中更困难的事情，因为杰利比夫人和一个不健康的男孩占据了前面的起居室（后面的起居室只是一个壁橱），里面散落着废纸和博里奥布尔文件，就像一个不整洁的马厩可能会发生的那样。撒上稻草。杰利比夫人整天坐在那里，喝着浓咖啡，口授，并接受博里奥布尔兰预约的采访。在我看来，那个不健康的男孩似乎正在走向衰落，他把饭菜带出了屋子。当杰利比先生回家时，他通常会呻吟一声，然后走进厨房。在那里，如果仆人愿意给他任何东西，他就可以吃点东西，然后，他觉得自己妨碍了他，就出去在湿漉漉的哈顿花园里散步。可怜的孩子们像往常一样在房子里爬上爬下。

The production of these devoted little sacrifices in any presentable condition being quite out of the question at a week’s notice, I proposed to Caddy that we should make them as happy as we could on her marriage morning in the attic where they all slept, and should confine our greatest efforts to her mama and her mama’s room, and a clean breakfast. In truth Mrs. Jellyby required a good deal of attention, the lattice-work up her back having widened considerably since I first knew her and her hair looking like the mane of a dustman’s horse.
在一周的通知中，在任何像样的条件下制作这些奉献的小牺牲都是完全不可能的，我向凯蒂提议，我们应该在她结婚的早晨在他们都睡觉的阁楼上让他们尽可能高兴，并且应该我们最大的努力仅限于她妈妈和她妈妈的房间，以及干净的早餐。事实上，杰利比夫人需要大量的关注，自从我第一次认识她以来，她背部的格子结构已经大大加宽，她的头发看起来就像清洁工的马的鬃毛。

Thinking that the display of Caddy’s wardrobe would be the best means of approaching the subject, I invited Mrs. Jellyby to come and look at it spread out on Caddy’s bed in the evening after the unwholesome boy was gone.
我认为展示凯迪的衣柜是探讨这个主题的最佳方式，所以晚上那个不健康的男孩离开后，我邀请杰利比太太来看看凯迪床上铺着的衣服。

‘My dear Miss Summerson,’ said she, rising from her desk with her usual sweetness of temper, ‘these are really ridiculous preparations, though your assisting them is a proof of your kindness. There is something so inexpressibly absurd to me in the idea of Caddy being married! Oh, Caddy, you silly, silly, silly puss!’
“我亲爱的萨默森小姐，”她从办公桌上站起来，带着一贯的和善脾气，说道，“这些准备工作实在是可笑，尽管你对他们的帮助证明了你的善意。对我来说，凯蒂结婚的想法实在是太荒谬了！哦，凯迪，你这个傻、傻、傻的小猫！

She came upstairs with us notwithstanding and looked at the clothes in her customary far-off manner. They suggested one distinct idea to her, for she said with her placid smile, and shaking her head, ‘My good Miss Summerson, at half the cost, this weak child might have been equipped for Africa!’
尽管如此，她还是和我们一起上楼，用她惯常的冷漠态度打量着衣服。他们向她提出了一个独特的想法，因为她平静地微笑着，摇着头说道：“我的好萨默森小姐，只要花一半的费用，这个弱小的孩子就可以为非洲做好准备！”

On our going downstairs again, Mrs. Jellyby asked me whether this troublesome business was really to take place next Wednesday. And on my replying yes, she said, ‘Will my room be required, my dear Miss Summerson? For it’s quite impossible that I can put my papers away.’
当我们再次下楼时，杰利比太太问我这件麻烦事是否真的要在下周三进行。当我回答“是”时，她说：“我亲爱的萨默森小姐，需要我的房间吗？”因为我根本不可能把文件收起来。”

I took the liberty of saying that the room would certainly be wanted and that I thought we must put the papers away somewhere. ‘Well, my dear Miss Summerson,’ said Mrs. Jellyby, ‘you know best, I dare say. But by obliging me to employ a boy, Caddy has embarrassed me to that extent, overwhelmed as I am with public business, that I don’t know which way to turn. We have a Ramification meeting, too, on Wednesday afternoon, and the inconvenience is very serious.’
我冒昧地说，这个房间肯定会被需要，我认为我们必须把文件放在某个地方。 “好吧，我亲爱的萨默森小姐，”杰利比夫人说，“我敢说你最了解。”但是，凯迪强迫我雇用一个男孩，这让我很尴尬，因为我对公共事务不知所措，我不知道该走哪条路。我们周三下午也有一个 Ramification 会议，带来的不便非常严重。”

‘It is not likely to occur again,’ said I, smiling. ‘Caddy will be married but once, probably.’
“这种事不太可能再发生了。”我微笑着说道。 “球童可能会结婚，但一次。”

‘That’s true,’ Mrs. Jellyby replied; ‘that’s true, my dear. I suppose we must make the best of it!’
“确实如此，”杰利比夫人回答道。 ‘确实如此，亲爱的。我想我们必须充分利用它！

The next question was how Mrs. Jellyby should be dressed on the occasion. I thought it very curious to see her looking on serenely from her writing-table while Caddy and I discussed it, occasionally shaking her head at us with a half-reproachful smile like a superior spirit who could just bear with our trifling.
下一个问题是杰利比夫人在这个场合应该穿什么衣服。我觉得很奇怪的是，当凯迪和我讨论这件事时，她坐在写字台上平静地看着，偶尔带着半责备的微笑向我们摇摇头，就像一个高高在上的精灵，可以忍受我们的琐事。

The state in which her dresses were, and the extraordinary confusion in which she kept them, added not a little to our difficulty; but at length we devised something not very unlike what a common-place mother might wear on such an occasion. The abstracted manner in which Mrs. Jellyby would deliver herself up to having this attire tried on by the dressmaker, and the sweetness with which she would then observe to me how sorry she was that I had not turned my thoughts to Africa, were consistent with the rest of her behaviour.
她衣服的状况，以及她把它们存放得异常混乱，给我们增加了不少困难。但最终我们设计了一件与普通母亲在这种场合可能穿的衣服不太相似的衣服。杰利比夫人让裁缝试穿这件衣服时表现出的心不在焉的态度，以及随后她甜蜜地对我说她为我没有把注意力转向非洲而感到多么遗憾，这些都与她的其余行为。

The lodging was rather confined as to space, but I fancied that if Mrs. Jellyby’s household had been the only lodgers in Saint Paul’s or Saint Peter’s, the sole advantage they would have found in the size of the building would have been its affording a great deal of room to be dirty in. I believe that nothing belonging to the family which it had been possible to break was unbroken at the time of those preparations for Caddy’s marriage, that nothing which it had been possible to spoil in any way was unspoilt, and that no domestic object which was capable of collecting dirt, from a dear child’s knee to the door-plate, was without as much dirt as could well accumulate upon it.
住宿的空间相当有限，但我想，如果杰利比夫人一家是圣保罗或圣彼得的唯一房客，那么他们在这座建筑的规模上发现的唯一优势就是它能提供很大的住宿空间。我相信，在凯迪准备结婚的时候，属于这个家庭的一切可能被破坏的东西都没有被破坏，任何可能以任何方式破坏的东西都没有被破坏，凡是能够积聚污垢的家用物品，从可爱的孩子的膝盖到门板，都不会没有那么多的污垢积聚在上面。

Poor Mr. Jellyby, who very seldom spoke and almost always sat when he was at home with his head against the wall, became interested when he saw that Caddy and I were attempting to establish some order among all this waste and ruin and took off his coat to help. But such wonderful things came tumbling out of the closets when they were opened—bits of mouldy pie, sour bottles, Mrs. Jellyby’s caps, letters, tea, forks, odd boots and shoes of children, firewood, wafers, saucepan-lids, damp sugar in odds and ends of paper bags, footstools, blacklead brushes, bread, Mrs. Jellyby’s bonnets, books with butter sticking to the binding, guttered candle ends put out by being turned upside down in broken candlesticks, nutshells, heads and tails of shrimps, dinner-mats, gloves, coffeegrounds, umbrellas—that he looked frightened, and left off again. But he came regularly every evening and sat without his coat, with his head against the wall, as though he would have helped us if he had known how.
可怜的杰利比先生很少说话，在家时几乎总是把头靠在墙上坐着，当他看到凯迪和我试图在所有这些浪费和废墟中建立某种秩序时，他开始感兴趣，并脱下了他的衣服。外套来帮忙。但当壁橱打开时，这些奇妙的东西却从壁橱里滚了出来——发霉的馅饼、酸瓶子、杰利比夫人的帽子、信件、茶、叉子、奇怪的儿童靴子和鞋子、木柴、薄饼、锅盖、潮湿的东西。纸袋零碎的糖、脚凳、黑铅刷、面包、杰利比夫人的帽子、装订上粘着黄油的书、被倒置在破碎烛台、果壳、虾头和虾尾中的蜡烛头、餐垫、手套、咖啡渣、雨伞——他看起来很害怕，然后又离开了。但他每天晚上都会定期来，不穿外套，头靠在墙上坐着，好像如果他知道如何帮助我们一样。

‘Poor Pa!’ said Caddy to me on the night before the great day, when we really had got things a little to rights. ‘It seems unkind to leave him, Esther. But what could I do if I stayed! Since I first knew you, I have tidied and tidied over and over again, but it’s useless. Ma and Africa, together, upset the whole house directly. We never have a servant who don’t drink. Ma’s ruinous to everything.’
“可怜的爸爸！”在伟大的一天的前一天晚上，凯迪对我说，当时我们的情况确实有所改善。 “离开他似乎很不友善，埃丝特。但如果我留下来又能做什么呢！自从认识你以来，我整理了一遍又一遍，却毫无用处。马云和非洲一起，直接掀翻了整个房子。我们从来没有不喝酒的仆人。妈妈毁了一切。

Mr. Jellyby could not hear what she said, but he seemed very low indeed and shed tears, I thought.
杰利比先生听不见她说什么，但我想，他看起来确实很沮丧，还流着泪。

‘My heart aches for him; that it does!’ sobbed Caddy. ‘I can’t help thinking to-night, Esther, how dearly I hope to be happy with Prince, and how dearly Pa hoped, I dare say, to be happy with Ma. What a disappointed life!’
‘我的心为他而痛；确实如此！”凯迪抽泣着。 “今晚我情不自禁地想，埃丝特，我是多么希望能和普林斯在一起幸福，我敢说，爸爸是多么希望和妈妈在一起幸福。多么令人失望的生活啊！

‘My dear Caddy!’ said Mr. Jellyby, looking slowly round from the wail. It was the first time, I think, I ever heard him say three words together.
“我亲爱的球童！”杰利比先生说，他从哭声中慢慢地环顾四周。我想，这是我第一次听到他同时说出三个词。

‘Yes, Pa!’ cried Caddy, going to him and embracing him affectionately.
“是的，爸爸！”凯迪喊道，走到他身边，深情地拥抱了他。

‘My dear Caddy,’ said Mr. Jellyby. ‘Never have—‘
“我亲爱的球童，”杰利比先生说。 '从来没有-'

‘Not Prince, Pa?’ faltered Caddy. ‘Not have Prince?’
“爸爸，不是普林斯吗？”凯蒂​​结结巴巴地说。 “没有王子吗？”

‘Yes, my dear,’ said Mr. Jellyby. ‘Have him, certainly. But, never have—‘
“是的，亲爱的，”杰利比先生说。 ‘当然有他。但是，从来没有——”

I mentioned in my account of our first visit in Thavies Inn that Richard described Mr. Jellyby as frequently opening his mouth after dinner without saying anything. It was a habit of his. He opened his mouth now a great many times and shook his head in a melancholy manner.
我在第一次访问泰维斯旅馆时提到，理查德描述杰利比先生经常在晚饭后张开嘴，什么也没说。这是他的习惯。他多次张开嘴，忧郁地摇摇头。

‘What do you wish me not to have? Don’t have what, dear Pa?’ asked Caddy, coaxing him, with her arms round his neck.
‘你希望我不要什么？亲爱的爸爸，没有什么吗？”凯蒂​​问道，用双臂搂着他的脖子哄他。

‘Never have a mission, my dear child.’
“永远不要有使命，我亲爱的孩子。”

Mr. Jellyby groaned and laid his head against the wall again, and this was the only time I ever heard him make any approach to expressing his sentiments on the Borrioboolan question. I suppose he had been more talkative and lively once, but he seemed to have been completely exhausted long before I knew him.
杰利比先生呻吟着，再次把头靠在墙上，这是我唯一一次听到他对博里奥布尔兰问题表达自己的看法。我想他曾经比较健谈和活泼，但在我认识他之前，他似乎已经完全筋疲力尽了。

I thought Mrs. Jellyby never would have left off serenely looking over her papers and drinking coffee that night. It was twelve o’clock before we could obtain possession of the room, and the clearance it required then was so discouraging that Caddy, who was almost tired out, sat down in the middle of the dust and cried. But she soon cheered up, and we did wonders with it before we went to bed.
我想杰利比夫人那天晚上永远不会停止平静地检查她的文件和喝咖啡。到了十二点钟，我们才获得了房间的所有权，当时所要求的许可实在令人沮丧，以至于几乎精疲力尽的凯迪坐在灰尘中哭泣。但她很快就高兴起来，我们在睡觉前用它创造了奇迹。

In the morning it looked, by the aid of a few flowers and a quantity of soap and water and a little arrangement, quite gay. The plain breakfast made a cheerful show, and Caddy was perfectly charming. But when my darling came, I thought—and I think now— that I never had seen such a dear face as my beautiful pet’s.
早上，借助几朵花、大量肥皂和水以及一些小布置，它看起来非常愉快。简单的早餐呈现出欢乐的气氛，凯迪也非常迷人。但当我的爱人到来时，我想——现在我也这么想——我从来没有见过像我美丽的宠物那样可爱的脸。

We made a little feast for the children upstairs, and we put Peepy at the head of the table, and we showed them Caddy in her bridal dress, and they clapped their hands and hurrahed, and Caddy cried to think that she was going away from them and hugged them over and over again until we brought Prince up to fetch her away—when, I am sorry to say, Peepy bit him. Then there was old Mr. Turveydrop downstairs, in a state of deportment not to be expressed, benignly blessing Caddy and giving my guardian to understand that his son’s happiness was his own parental work and that he sacrificed personal considerations to ensure it. ‘My dear sir,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, ‘these young people will live with me; my house is large enough for their accommodation, and they shall not want the shelter of my roof. I could have wished—you will understand the allusion, Mr. Jarndyce, for you remember my illustrious patron the Prince Regent —I could have wished that my son had married into a family where there was more deportment, but the will of heaven be done!’
我们为楼上的孩子们做了一顿小盛宴，我们把皮皮放在桌子的一头，我们给他们看了穿着新娘礼服的凯蒂，他们拍手欢呼，凯蒂哭着想到她要离开他们一遍又一遍地拥抱他们，直到我们把普林斯带上来把她带走——我很遗憾地说，皮皮咬了他。然后楼下的老特维德罗普先生以一种难以言喻的举止，善意地祝福凯迪，让我的监护人明白，他儿子的幸福是他父母自己的努力，他牺牲了个人的考虑来确保这一点。 “亲爱的先生，”特维德罗普先生说，“这些年轻人将和我住在一起；我的房子足够大，足够他们住了，他们不会想要我屋顶的庇护。我本可以希望——贾迪斯先生，你会明白这个暗示的，因为你还记得我杰出的赞助人摄政王——我本可以希望我的儿子嫁入一个更有礼貌的家庭，但愿天意如此。 ！'

Mr. and Mrs. Pardiggle were of the party—Mr. Pardiggle, an obstinate-looking man with a large waistcoat and stubbly hair, who was always talking in a loud bass voice about his mite, or Mrs. Pardiggle’s mite, or their five boys’ mites. Mr. Quale, with his hair brushed back as usual and his knobs of temples shining very much, was also there, not in the character of a disappointed lover, but as the accepted of a young—at least, an unmarried—lady, a Miss Wisk, who was also there. Miss Wisk’s mission, my guardian said, was to show the world that woman’s mission was man’s mission and that the only genuine mission of both man and woman was to be always moving declaratory resolutions about things in general at public meetings. The guests were few, but were, as one might expect at Mrs. Jellyby’s, all devoted to public objects only. Besides those I have mentioned, there was an extremely dirty lady with her bonnet all awry and the ticketed price of her dress still sticking on it, whose neglected home, Caddy told me, was like a filthy wilderness, but whose church was like a fancy fair. A very contentious gentleman, who said it was his mission to be everybody’s brother but who appeared to be on terms of coolness with the whole of his large family, completed the party.
帕迪格先生和夫人是其中一员——帕迪格先生。帕迪格，一个看上去很固执的男人，穿着一件大背心，留着胡茬，他总是用大声的低音谈论他的小毛病，或者帕迪格太太的小毛病，或者他们五个男孩的小毛病。奎尔先生也在那里，他的头发像往常一样向后梳着，太阳穴闪闪发亮，他的形象并不是一个失望的情人，而是一位年轻——至少是一位未婚——女士的接受者，一位年轻的女士。威斯克小姐也在场。我的监护人说，威斯克小姐的使命是向世界表明，女人的使命就是男人的使命，而男人和女人唯一真正的使命就是始终在公开会议上就一般事务提出宣言性决议。客人虽少，但正如人们在杰利比夫人家所预料的那样，全都只专注于公共事务。除了我提到的那些之外，还有一位非常肮脏的女士，她的帽子歪了，衣服上还贴着她衣服的票价，凯迪告诉我，她的家被忽视了，就像一片肮脏的荒野，但她的教堂就像一座豪华的教堂。公平的。一位非常好争论的绅士，他说他的使命是成为每个人的兄弟，但他似乎对整个大家庭都很冷淡，他完成了聚会。

A party, having less in common with such an occasion, could hardly have been got together by any ingenuity. Such a mean mission as the domestic mission was the very last thing to be endured among them; indeed, Miss Wisk informed us, with great indignation, before we sat down to breakfast, that the idea of woman’s mission lying chiefly in the narrow sphere of home was an outrageous slander on the part of her tyrant, man. One other singularity was that nobody with a mission—except Mr. Quale, whose mission, as I think I have formerly said, was to be in ecstasies with everybody’s mission— cared at all for anybody’s mission. Mrs. Pardiggle being as clear that the only one infallible course was her course of pouncing upon the poor and applying benevolence to them like a strait-waistcoat; as Miss Wisk was that the only practical thing for the world was the emancipation of woman from the thraldom of her tyrant, man. Mrs. Jellyby, all the while, sat smiling at the limited vision that could see anything but Borrioboola-Gha.
与这种场合没有多少共同点的聚会几乎不可能靠任何聪明才智聚集在一起。像国内传教这样卑鄙的传教活动是他们最不能忍受的。事实上，在我们坐下来吃早餐之前，威斯克小姐非常愤慨地告诉我们，妇女的使命主要集中在家庭的狭小范围内的想法是对她的暴君男人的无耻诽谤。另一个奇特之处是，没有人有使命——除了奎尔先生，正如我之前所说，他的使命是对每个人的使命感到欣喜若狂——根本不关心任何人的使命。帕迪格夫人也很清楚，唯一正确的做法就是她像紧身马甲一样向穷人伸出援手，向他们施以仁慈。正如威斯克小姐所说，世界上唯一实际的事情就是将妇女从暴君男人的束缚中解放出来。杰利比夫人一直微笑着坐着，她的视力有限，除了博里奥布拉-加之外什么也看不到。

But I am anticipating now the purport of our conversation on the ride home instead of first marrying Caddy. We all went to church, and Mr. Jellyby gave her away. Of the air with which old Mr. Turveydrop, with his hat under his left arm (the inside presented at the clergyman like a cannon) and his eyes creasing themselves up into his wig, stood stiff and high-shouldered behind us bridesmaids during the ceremony, and afterwards saluted us, I could never say enough to do it justice. Miss Wisk, whom I cannot report as prepossessing in appearance, and whose manner was grim, listened to the proceedings, as part of woman’s wrongs, with a disdainful face. Mrs. Jellyby, with her calm smile and her bright eyes, looked the least concerned of all the company.
但我现在期待的是我们在回家的路上谈话的目的，而不是先嫁给凯迪。我们都去了教堂，杰利比先生把她送走了。老特维德罗普先生把帽子夹在左臂下（里面像大炮一样呈现在牧师面前），眼睛在假发上皱起，在仪式期间，他僵硬地高耸着肩膀站在我们伴娘身后，神态是那样的，然后向我们致敬，我永远无法说得足够公正。威斯克小姐，我不能说她的外表很讨人喜欢，而且她的举止很严肃，她带着轻蔑的表情听着整个过程，就像女人所受的委屈一样。杰利比夫人脸上带着平静的微笑和明亮的眼睛，看起来是全班人中最不关心的一个。

We duly came back to breakfast, and Mrs. Jellyby sat at the head of the table and Mr. Jellyby at the foot. Caddy had previously stolen upstairs to hug the children again and tell them that her name was Turveydrop. But this piece of information, instead of being an agreeable surprise to Peepy, threw him on his back in such transports of kicking grief that I could do nothing on being sent for but accede to the proposal that he should be admitted to the breakfast table. So he came down and sat in my lap; and Mrs. Jellyby, after saying, in reference to the state of his pinafore, ‘Oh, you naughty Peepy, what a shocking little pig you are!’ was not at all discomposed. He was very good except that he brought down Noah with him (out of an ark I had given him before we went to church) and WOULD dip him head first into the wine-glasses and then put him in his mouth.
我们按时回来吃早餐，杰利比太太坐在桌首，杰利比先生坐在桌脚。凯迪此前曾偷偷上楼再次拥抱孩子们，并告诉他们她的名字叫特维德罗普。但这条信息并没有让皮皮感到意外的惊喜，反而让他陷入极度悲伤的境地，以至于我在被叫去时无能为力，只能同意让他参加早餐桌的提议。于是他下来坐在我的腿上。杰利比夫人在谈到他围裙的状态时说道：“哦，你这个顽皮的皮比，你真是一只令人震惊的小猪！”一点也没有感到不安。他非常好，除了他把诺亚带下来（从我们去教堂之前我给他的方舟里），并把他的头先浸入酒杯中，然后把他放进嘴里。

My guardian, with his sweet temper and his quick perception and his amiable face, made something agreeable even out of the ungenial company. None of them seemed able to talk about anything but his, or her, own one subject, and none of them seemed able to talk about even that as part of a world in which there was anything else; but my guardian turned it all to the merry encouragement of Caddy and the honour of the occasion, and brought us through the breakfast nobly. What we should have done without him, I am afraid to think, for all the company despising the bride and bridegroom and old Mr. Turveydrop—and old Mr. Thrveydrop, in virtue of his deportment, considering himself vastly superior to all the company—it was a very unpromising case.
我的监护人脾气温和，反应敏捷，面容和蔼可亲，即使是在不友善的陪伴下，也能做出一些令人愉快的事情。除了他或她自己的一个主题之外，他们似乎都无法谈论任何事情，而且他们似乎都无法谈论这个世界的一部分，在这个世界里还有其他东西；但我的监护人把这一切都归功于凯迪的快乐鼓励和这个场合的荣誉，并带领我们高贵地度过了早餐。我恐怕想，如果没有他，我们应该做些什么，因为所有的人都鄙视新娘和新郎以及老特维德罗普先生——而老特维德罗普先生，由于他的举止，认为自己比所有的人都优越得多——这是一个非常没有希望的案例。

At last the time came when poor Caddy was to go and when all her property was packed on the hired coach and pair that was to take her and her husband to Gravesend. It affected us to see Caddy clinging, then, to her deplorable home and hanging on her mother’s neck with the greatest tenderness.
可怜的凯迪终于要走了，她所有的财产都装在了租来的马车和双人车上，载着她和她的丈夫去格雷夫森德。看到凯迪紧紧抓住她那可悲的家，并以最温柔的方式挂在她母亲的脖子上，我们感到很感动。

‘I am very sorry I couldn’t go on writing from dictation, Ma,’ sobbed Caddy. ‘I hope you forgive me now.’
“我很抱歉我不能继续听写写作，妈妈，”凯迪抽泣着说。 “我希望你现在原谅我。”

‘Oh, Caddy, Caddy!’ said Mrs. Jellyby. ‘I have told you over and over again that I have engaged a boy, and there’s an end of it.’
“哦，凯迪，凯迪！”杰利比太太说。 “我已经一遍又一遍地告诉你，我已经订婚了一个男孩，事情就这样结束了。”

‘You are sure you are not the least angry with me, Ma? Say you are sure before I go away, Ma?’
“你确定你一点也不生我的气吗，妈？在我走之前你说你确定吗，妈妈？

‘You foolish Caddy,’ returned Mrs. Jellyby, ‘do I look angry, or have I inclination to be angry, or time to be angry? How CAN you?’
“你这个愚蠢的球童，”杰利比太太回答道，“我看起来很生气吗？或者我有生气的倾向，或者是时候生气了？”你怎么？'

‘Take a little care of Pa while I am gone, Mama!’
“我不在的时候，请照顾一下爸爸，妈妈！”

Mrs. Jellyby positively laughed at the fancy. ‘You romantic child,’ said she, lightly patting Caddy’s back. ‘Go along. I am excellent friends with you. Now, good-bye, Caddy, and be very happy!’
杰利比夫人对这个幻想大笑起来。 “你这个浪漫的孩子，”她轻轻拍着凯迪的背说道。 '附和。我和你是很好的朋友。现在，再见，凯蒂，祝你幸福！”

Then Caddy hung upon her father and nursed his cheek against hers as if he were some poor dull child in pain. All this took place in the hall. Her father released her, took out his pocket handkerchief, and sat down on the stairs with his head against the wall. I hope he found some consolation in walls. I almost think he did.
然后凯迪依偎在她父亲身上，把他的脸颊贴在她的脸颊上，仿佛他是一个痛苦的可怜的迟钝的孩子。这一切都发生在大厅里。父亲松开了她，掏出口袋里的手帕，头抵着墙坐在了楼梯上。我希望他能在墙壁上找到一些安慰。我几乎认为他做到了。

And then Prince took her arm in his and turned with great emotion and respect to his father, whose deportment at that moment was overwhelming.
然后普林斯挽着她的手臂，怀着极大的情感和敬意转过身来面对他的父亲，他那一刻的举止令人难以抗拒。

‘Thank you over and over again, father!’ said Prince, kissing his hand. ‘I am very grateful for all your kindness and consideration regarding our marriage, and so, I can assure you, is Caddy.’
“再次感谢您，父亲！”王子亲吻着他的手说道。 “我非常感谢你对我们婚姻的善意和体贴，我可以向你保证，凯迪也是如此。”

‘Very,’ sobbed Caddy. ‘Ve-ry!’
“非常，”凯迪抽泣着。 '非常！'

‘My dear son,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, ‘and dear daughter, I have done my duty. If the spirit of a sainted wooman hovers above us and looks down on the occasion, that, and your constant affection, will be my recompense. You will not fail in YOUR duty, my son and daughter, I believe?’
“我亲爱的儿子，”特维德罗普先生说，“亲爱的女儿，我已经尽了我的职责。如果一位圣女的精神盘旋在我们之上并俯视这个场合，那么，以及您不断的爱，将是我的报答。我相信你们不会辜负你们的职责，我的儿子和女儿？

‘Dear father, never!’ cried Prince.
“亲爱的父亲，决不！”普林斯喊道。

‘Never, never, dear Mr. Turveydrop!’ said Caddy.
“永远，永远，亲爱的特维德罗普先生！”凯迪说。

‘This,’ returned Mr. Turveydrop, ‘is as it should be. My children, my home is yours, my heart is yours, my all is yours. I will never leave you; nothing but death shall part us. My dear son, you contemplate an absence of a week, I think?’
“这，”特维德罗普先生回答道，“这是应该的。”我的孩子们，我的家是你们的，我的心是你们的，我的一切都是你们的。我永远不会离开你;除了死亡，没有什么能将我们分开。我亲爱的儿子，我想你考虑缺席一周吧？

‘A week, dear father. We shall return home this day week.’
“一周了，亲爱的父亲。我们将在本周的这一天回家。

‘My dear child,’ said Mr. Turveydrop, ‘let me, even under the present exceptional circumstances, recommend strict punctuality. It is highly important to keep the connexion together; and schools, if at all neglected, are apt to take offence.’
“我亲爱的孩子，”特维德罗普先生说，“让我建议，即使在目前的特殊情况下，也要严格守时。”保持联系非常重要；学校如果被忽视，很容易被冒犯。

‘This day week, father, we shall be sure to be home to dinner.’
“这周的今天，父亲，我们一定会回家吃晚饭。”

‘Good!’ said Mr. Turveydrop. ‘You will find fires, my dear Caroline, in your own room, and dinner prepared in my apartment. Yes, yes, Prince!’ anticipating some self-denying objection on his son’s part with a great air. ‘You and our Caroline will be strange in the upper part of the premises and will, therefore, dine that day in my apartment. Now, bless ye!’
“好！”特维德罗普先生说。 “亲爱的卡罗琳，你会在你自己的房间里发现火，在我的公寓里准备好晚餐。是的，是的，王子！”他神情严肃地期待着儿子会做出一些克己的反对。 “你和我们的卡罗琳在房子的上层会很奇怪，因此那天会在我的公寓里吃饭。现在，祝福你们！

They drove away, and whether I wondered most at Mrs. Jellyby or at Mr. Turveydrop, I did not know. Ada and my guardian were in the same condition when we came to talk it over. But before we drove away too, I received a most unexpected and eloquent compliment from Mr. Jellyby. He came up to me in the hall, took both my hands, pressed them earnestly, and opened his mouth twice. I was so sure of his meaning that I said, quite flurried, ‘You are very welcome, sir. Pray don’t mention it!’
他们开车走了，我不知道我最想知道的是杰利比太太还是特维德罗普先生。当我们来讨论这件事时，艾达和我的监护人也处于同样的情况。但在我们也开车离开之前，我收到了杰利比先生最出乎意料且雄辩的赞美。他在大厅里走到我面前，握住我的双手，认真地握着，张了两次嘴。我非常确定他的意思，所以我非常慌乱地说：“不客气，先生。”请不要提及它！

‘I hope this marriage is for the best, guardian,’ said I when we three were on our road home.
“我希望这桩婚姻是最好的，监护人。”当我们三个走在回家的路上时，我说道。

‘I hope it is, little woman. Patience. We shall see.’
“我希望如此，小女人。耐心。我们将会看到。

‘Is the wind in the east to-day?’ I ventured to ask him.
“今天是东风吗？”我大胆地问他。

He laughed heartily and answered, ‘No.’
他哈哈大笑，回答说：“没有。”

‘But it must have been this morning, I think,’ said I.
“但我想一定是今天早上，”我说。

He answered ‘No’ again, and this time my dear girl confidently answered ‘No’ too and shook the lovely head which, with its blooming flowers against the golden hair, was like the very spring. ‘Much YOU know of east winds, my ugly darling,’ said I, kissing her in my admiration—I couldn’t help it.
他再次回答“不”，这一次我亲爱的女孩也自信地回答“不”，并摇了摇头，那朵盛开的花朵映衬着金色的头发，就像春天一样。 “你对东风了解得很多，我丑陋的亲爱的，”我说道，在钦佩中亲吻了她——我无法控制。

Well! It was only their love for me, I know very well, and it is a long time ago. I must write it even if I rub it out again, because it gives me so much pleasure. They said there could be no east wind where Somebody was; they said that wherever Dame Durden went, there was sunshine and summer air.
出色地！那只是他们对我的爱，我很清楚，而且是很久以前的事了。即使再擦掉我也必须写下来，因为它给我带来了很多乐趣。他们说有人在的地方不可能有东风；他们说杜登夫人所到之处，都有阳光和夏日的空气。

CHAPTER XXXI
第三十一章


Nurse and Patient
护士和病人

I had not been at home again many days when one evening I went upstairs into my own room to take a peep over Charley’s shoulder and see how she was getting on with her copy-book. Writing was a trying business to Charley, who seemed to have no natural power over a pen, but in whose hand every pen appeared to become perversely animated, and to go wrong and crooked, and to stop, and splash, and sidle into corners like a saddle-donkey. It was very odd to see what old letters Charley’s young hand had made, they so wrinkled, and shrivelled, and tottering, it so plump and round. Yet Charley was uncommonly expert at other things and had as nimble little fingers as I ever watched.
我已经很多天没有在家了，有一天晚上，我上楼走进自己的房间，从查理的肩膀上偷看，看看她抄作业的情况如何。对查理来说，写作是一件很艰难的事情，他似乎对钢笔没有天生的力量，但在他的手中，每支钢笔似乎都变得异常活跃，出错、弯曲、停下来、溅起水花、溜进角落，就像一头鞍驴。查利年轻的手写出的旧字母非常奇怪，它们如此皱巴巴、干瘪、摇摇欲坠，却又如此丰满和圆润。然而查理在其他事情上却是异常的专家，而且他的小手指是我见过的最灵活的。

‘Well, Charley,’ said I, looking over a copy of the letter O in which it was represented as square, triangular, pear-shaped, and collapsed in all kinds of ways, ‘we are improving. If we only get to make it round, we shall be perfect, Charley.’
“好吧，查理，”我看着字母 O 的副本说道，其中它被表示为正方形、三角形、梨形，并以各种方式折叠，“我们正在进步。”只要我们能顺利完成任务，我们就完美了，查理。”

Then I made one, and Charley made one, and the pen wouldn’t join Charley’s neatly, but twisted it up into a knot.
然后我做了一支，查理也做了一支，这支笔并没有和查理的笔整齐地连接在一起，而是把它扭成了一个结。

‘Never mind, Charley. We shall do it in time.’
‘没关系，查理。我们会及时做的。

Charley laid down her pen, the copy being finished, opened and shut her cramped little hand, looked gravely at the page, half in pride and half in doubt, and got up, and dropped me a curtsy.
查莉放下笔，抄完稿，张开又合上她那抽筋的小手，严肃地看着这一页，一半是骄傲，一半是怀疑，然后站起来，向我行了屈膝礼。

‘Thank you, miss. If you please, miss, did you know a poor person of the name of Jenny?’
「谢谢你，小姐。小姐，请问您认识一个叫珍妮的穷人吗？

‘A brickmaker’s wife, Charley? Yes.’
“查理，砖匠的妻子？是的。'

‘She came and spoke to me when I was out a little while ago, and said you knew her, miss. She asked me if I wasn’t the young lady’s little maid—meaning you for the young lady, miss—and I said yes, miss.’
“不久前我出去的时候，她过来跟我说话，说你认识她，小姐。她问我是不是小姐的小丫鬟——小姐，你就是小姐的意思——我说是的，小姐。

‘I thought she had left this neighbourhood altogether, Charley.’
“我以为她已经完全离开了这个社区，查理。”

‘So she had, miss, but she’s come back again to where she used to live—she and Liz. Did you know another poor person of the name of Liz, miss?’
“她确实这么做了，小姐，但她又回到了她以前住的地方——她和莉兹。小姐，你认识另一个叫莉兹的可怜人吗？

‘I think I do, Charley, though not by name.’
“我想我是这么做的，查理，虽然不是指名道姓。”

‘That’s what she said!’ returned Chariey. ‘They have both come back, miss, and have been tramping high and low.’
“她就是这么说的！”查理回答道。 “他们都回来了，小姐，并且一直在走来走去。”

‘Tramping high and low, have they, Charley?’
“他们走来走去，是吗，查理？”

‘Yes, miss.’ If Charley could only have made the letters in her copy as round as the eyes with which she looked into my face, they would have been excellent. ‘And this poor person came about the house three or four days, hoping to get a glimpse of you, miss—all she wanted, she said—but you were away. That was when she saw me. She saw me a-going about, miss,’ said Charley with a short laugh of the greatest delight and pride, ‘and she thought I looked like your maid!’
“是的，小姐。”如果查理能把她的副本中的字母写得像她看着我脸上的眼睛一样圆，那就太好了。 “这个可怜的人在房子里来了三四天，希望能看一眼你，小姐——她说这就是她想要的——但你不在。”就在那时她看到了我。她看到我到处走动，小姐，”查利带着极大的喜悦和自豪的短笑说道，“她认为我看起来像你的女仆！

‘Did she though, really, Charley?’
“查理，她真的这么想吗？”

‘Yes, miss!’ said Charley. ‘Really and truly.’ And Charley, with another short laugh of the purest glee, made her eyes very round again and looked as serious as became my maid. I was never tired of seeing Charley in the full enjoyment of that great dignity, standing before me with her youthful face and figure, and her steady manner, and her childish exultation breaking through it now and then in the pleasantest way.
“是的，小姐！”查理说。 “真的，真的。”查理又带着最纯粹的欢乐短促地笑了一声，她的眼睛又睁得大大的，看起来像我的女仆一样严肃。我乐此不疲地看到查理充分享受那种伟大的尊严，站在我面前，她年轻的脸庞和身材，她稳重的举止，以及她时不时以最令人愉快的方式突破的孩子气的狂喜。

‘And where did you see her, Charley?’ said I.
“查理，你在哪里看到她的？”我问道。

My little maid’s countenance fell as she replied, ‘By the doctor’s shop, miss.’ For Charley wore her black frock yet.
我的小女仆的脸色沉了下来，她回答道：“在医生的店里，小姐。”因为查理还穿着她的黑色连衣裙。

I asked if the brickmaker’s wife were ill, but Charley said no. It was some one else. Some one in her cottage who had tramped down to Saint Albans and was tramping he didn’t know where. A poor boy, Charley said. No father, no mother, no any one. ‘Like as Tom might have been, miss, if Emma and me had died after father,’ said Charley, her round eyes filling with tears.
我问砖匠的妻子是否病了，查理说没有。是别人的。她的小屋里有人徒步来到圣奥尔本斯，但他不知道徒步到了哪里。查理说，他是个可怜的孩子。没有父亲，没有母亲，没有任何人。 “就像汤姆一样，小姐，如果艾玛和我在父亲去世后就去世了，”查理说，她的圆眼睛里充满了泪水。

‘And she was getting medicine for him, Charley?’
“查理，她正在给他买药吗？”

‘She said, miss,’ returned Charley, ‘how that he had once done as much for her.’
“她说，小姐，”查利回答道，“他曾经为她做了这么多。”

My little maid’s face was so eager and her quiet hands were folded so closely in one another as she stood looking at me that I had no great difficulty in reading her thoughts. ‘Well, Charley,’ said I, ‘it appears to me that you and I can do no better than go round to Jenny’s and see what’s the matter.’
我的小女仆的脸是如此渴望，她安静的双手紧紧地握在一起，站在那里看着我，所以我不费吹灰之力就能读懂她的想法。 “好吧，查理，”我说，“在我看来，你和我最好的办法就是去珍妮家看看发生了什么事。”

The alacrity with which Charley brought my bonnet and veil, and having dressed me, quaintly pinned herself into her warm shawl and made herself look like a little old woman, sufficiently expressed her readiness. So Charley and I, without saying anything to any one, went out.
查莉敏捷地给我拿来帽子和面纱，给我穿好衣服，别致地把自己别在温暖的围巾里，让自己看起来像个小老太婆，这足以表明她已经做好了准备。于是查理和我，什么也没对任何人说，就出去了。

It was a cold, wild night, and the trees shuddered in the wind. The rain had been thick and heavy all day, and with little intermission for many days. None was falling just then, however. The sky had partly cleared, but was very gloomy—even above us, where a few stars were shining. In the north and north-west, where the sun had set three hours before, there was a pale dead light both beautiful and awful; and into it long sullen lines of cloud waved up like a sea stricken immovable as it was heaving. Towards London a lurid glare overhung the whole dark waste, and the contrast between these two lights, and the fancy which the redder light engendered of an unearthly fire, gleaming on all the unseen buildings of the city and on all the faces of its many thousands of wondering inhabitants, was as solemn as might be.
那是一个寒冷而狂野的夜晚，树木在风中颤抖。这场雨一整天都下得又大又大，而且好几天都没有间断过。然而，就在此时，没有任何东西掉落。天空已经部分放晴，但非常阴暗——即使在我们头顶上，也有几颗星星在闪烁。在北部和西北部，太阳在三小时前落下的地方，有一道苍白的死光，既美丽又可怕。天空中，长长的、阴沉的云线在波浪中飘扬，就像受海浪袭击的大海一样，在起伏时一动不动。伦敦的方向，一道可怕的光芒笼罩着整个黑暗的荒野，这两道光之间的对比，以及由超凡的火所产生的更红的光所产生的幻想，在这座城市所有看不见的建筑和成千上万的人的脸上闪闪发光好奇的居民，是尽可能的庄严。

I had no thought that night—none, I am quite sure—of what was soon to happen to me. But I have always remembered since that when we had stopped at the garden-gate to look up at the sky, and when we went upon our way, I had for a moment an undefinable impression of myself as being something different from what I then was. I know it was then and there that I had it. I have ever since connected the feeling with that spot and time and with everything associated with that spot and time, to the distant voices in the town, the barking of a dog, and the sound of wheels coming down the miry hill.
那天晚上我没有想到——我很确定，没有想到——很快就会发生在我身上的事情。但我一直记得，当我们在花园门口停下来仰望天空，当我们继续上路时，我有一瞬间有一种无法形容的感觉，觉得自己与当时的我不同了。 。我知道我就在那时就拥有了它。从那时起，我就将这种感觉与那个地点和时间以及与那个地点和时间相关的一切联系起来，与城镇中遥远的声音，狗的吠声，以及从泥泞的山上滚下的车轮声联系在一起。

It was Saturday night, and most of the people belonging to the place where we were going were drinking elsewhere. We found it quieter than I had previously seen it, though quite as miserable. The kilns were burning, and a stifling vapour set towards us with a pale-blue glare.
那是星期六晚上，我们要去的地方的大部分人都在别处喝酒。我们发现这里比我以前看到的要安静，尽管也同样悲惨。窑炉正在燃烧，令人窒息的蒸气带着淡蓝色的光芒向我们袭来。

We came to the cottage, where there was a feeble candle in the patched window. We tapped at the door and went in. The mother of the little child who had died was sitting in a chair on one side of the poor fire by the bed; and opposite to her, a wretched boy, supported by the chimney-piece, was cowering on the floor. He held under his arm, like a little bundle, a fragment of a fur cap; and as he tried to warm himself, he shook until the crazy door and window shook. The place was closer than before and had an unhealthy and a very peculiar smell.
我们来到了小屋，修补的窗户里点着微弱的蜡烛。我们敲了敲门，进去了。死去的小孩的母亲坐在床边可怜的火一侧的椅子上。在她对面，一个可怜的男孩靠着烟囱，蜷缩在地板上。他腋下夹着一块毛皮帽子的碎片，像一个小包一样。当他试图取暖时，他浑身颤抖，直到那扇疯狂的门窗摇晃起来。这个地方比以前更近了，而且有一种不健康的、很奇特的气味。

I had not lifted by veil when I first spoke to the woman, which was at the moment of our going in. The boy staggered up instantly and stared at me with a remarkable expression of surprise and terror.
当我第一次和那个女人说话时，也就是我们进去的那一刻，我并没有揭开面纱。男孩立刻摇摇晃晃地站起来，用一种明显的惊讶和恐惧的表情盯着我。

His action was so quick and my being the cause of it was so evident that I stood still instead of advancing nearer.
他的动作如此之快，而我的行动又是如此明显，以至于我没有走近，而是站在原地不动。

‘I won’t go no more to the berryin ground,’ muttered the boy; ‘I ain’t a-going there, so I tell you!’
“我不会再去浆果地了，”男孩嘀咕道。 “我不会去那里，所以我告诉你！”

I lifted my veil and spoke to the woman. She said to me in a low voice, ‘Don’t mind him, ma’am. He’ll soon come back to his head,’ and said to him, ‘Jo, Jo, what’s the matter?’
我掀起面纱，对那个女人说话。她低声对我说：‘女士，别理他。他很快就会清醒过来，”并对他说，“乔，乔，怎么了？

‘I know wot she’s come for!’ cried the boy.
“我知道她是来干什么的！”男孩喊道。

‘Who?’
'WHO？'

‘The lady there. She’s come to get me to go along with her to the berryin ground. I won’t go to the berryin ground. I don’t like the name on it. She might go a-berryin ME.’ His shivering came on again, and as he leaned against the wall, he shook the hovel.
‘那边的那位女士。她来接我和她一起去浆果园。我不会去浆果地。我不喜欢上面的名字。她可能会在我身上吃浆果。”他的颤抖又开始了，当他靠在墙上时，他摇晃着小屋。

‘He has been talking off and on about such like all day, ma’am,’ said Jenny softly. ‘Why, how you stare! This is MY lady, Jo.’
“他一整天都在断断续续地谈论这样的事情，女士，”珍妮轻声说道。 ‘哎呀，你的目光多么凝视啊！这是我的女士，乔。”

‘Is it?’ returned the boy doubtfully, and surveying me with his arm held out above his burning eyes. ‘She looks to me the t’other one. It ain’t the bonnet, nor yet it ain’t the gownd, but she looks to me the t’other one.’
“是吗？”男孩疑惑地回答，伸出手臂遮住灼热的眼睛，打量着我。 “她在我看来是另一个人。”这不是帽子，也不是长袍，但在我看来，她是另一个。

My little Charley, with her premature experience of illness and trouble, had pulled off her bonnet and shawl and now went quietly up to him with a chair and sat him down in it like an old sick nurse. Except that no such attendant could have shown him Charley’s youthful face, which seemed to engage his confidence.
我的小查理，由于过早地经历了疾病和麻烦，已经脱下了帽子和披肩，现在悄悄地拿着一把椅子走到他面前，让他坐在上面，就像一个生病的老护士一样。只是没有这样的服务员能够向他展示查理年轻的脸，这似乎激发了他的信心。

‘I say!’ said the boy. ‘YOU tell me. Ain’t the lady the t’other lady?’
“我说！”男孩说。 '你告诉我。这位女士不是另一位女士吗？

Charley shook her head as she methodically drew his rags about him and made him as warm as she could.
查利摇摇头，她有条不紊地把他的破布裹在身上，尽可能地让他暖和起来。

‘Oh!’ the boy muttered. ‘Then I s’pose she ain’t.’
“哦！”男孩嘟哝道。 “那我想她不是。”

‘I came to see if I could do you any good,’ said I. ‘What is the matter with you?’
“我来是想看看能不能帮到你什么忙，”我说道，“你怎么了？”

‘I’m a-being froze,’ returned the boy hoarsely, with his haggard gaze wandering about me, ‘and then burnt up, and then froze, and then burnt up, ever so many times in a hour. And my head’s all sleepy, and all a-going mad-like—and I’m so dry—and my bones isn’t half so much bones as pain.
“我被冻住了，”男孩沙哑地回答道，他那憔悴的目光在我周围徘徊，“然后被烧伤，然后被冻住，然后被烧伤，一小时内如此多次。我的头昏昏欲睡，快要发疯了——而且我太干了——我的骨头不是骨头的一半，而是疼痛。

‘When did he come here?’ I asked the woman.
“他什么时候来这里的？”我问那个女人。

‘This morning, ma’am, I found him at the corner of the town. I had known him up in London yonder. Hadn’t I, Jo?’
“今天早上，女士，我在小镇的拐角处找到了他。我在伦敦那边就认识他了。我不是吗，乔？

‘Tom-all-Alone’s,’ the boy replied.
“汤姆独自一人，”男孩回答道。

Whenever he fixed his attention or his eyes, it was only for a very little while. He soon began to droop his head again, and roll it heavily, and speak as if he were half awake.
每当他集中注意力或注视眼睛时，都只会持续很短的时间。很快他又开始低下头，重重地转动着，说话的样子就好像半梦半醒一样。

‘When did he come from London?’ I asked.
“他什么时候从伦敦来的？”我问。

‘I come from London yes’day,’ said the boy himself, now flushed and hot. ‘I’m a-going somewheres.’
“我昨天从伦敦来的。”男孩自己说道，他现在脸色通红，浑身发热。 “我要去某个地方。”

‘Where is he going?’ I asked.
“他要去哪里？”我问。

‘Somewheres,’ repeated the boy in a louder tone. ‘I have been moved on, and moved on, more nor ever I was afore, since the t’other one give me the sov’ring. Mrs. Snagsby, she’s always awatching, and a-driving of me—what have I done to her?—and they’re all a-watching and a-driving of me. Every one of ‘em’s doing of it, from the time when I don’t get up, to the time when I don’t go to bed. And I’m a-going somewheres. That’s where I’m agoing. She told me, down in Tom-all-Alone’s, as she came from Stolbuns, and so I took the Stolbuns Road. It’s as good as another.’
“在某个地方，”男孩大声重复道。 “自从另一个人给我主宰权以来，我一直在前进，一直前进，比以前更加前进。”斯纳斯比太太，她总是注视着我，驱使着我——我对她做了什么？——而他们都注视着我，驱使着我。他们每个人都在做这件事，从我不起床，到我不睡觉。我要去某个地方。这就是我要去的地方。她告诉我，她来自斯托尔本斯，就在汤姆孤儿店里，所以我就走斯托尔本斯路。它和另一个一样好。

He always concluded by addressing Charley.
最后他总是对查理说。

‘What is to be done with him?’ said I, taking the woman aside. ‘He could not travel in this state even if he had a purpose and knew where he was going!’
“该怎么办他呢？”我一边说，一边把女人拉到一边。 “即使他有目的并且知道他要去哪里，他也无法在这种状态下旅行！”

‘I know no more, ma’am, than the dead,’ she replied, glancing compassionately at him. ‘Perhaps the dead know better, if they could only tell us. I’ve kept him here all day for pity’s sake, and I’ve given him broth and physic, and Liz has gone to try if any one will take him in (here’s my pretty in the bed—her child, but I call it mine); but I can’t keep him long, for if my husband was to come home and find him here, he’d be rough in putting him out and might do him a hurt. Hark! Here comes Liz back!’
“我不知道更多，女士，就像死人一样，”她回答道，同情地看了他一眼。 “也许死者更清楚，如果他们能告诉我们的话。”出于怜悯，我把他留在这里一整天，我给了他肉汤和药，莉兹已经去尝试是否有人愿意收留他（这是我床上的漂亮女人——她的孩子，但我称之为矿）;但我不能把他留得太久，因为如果我丈夫回家发现他在这里，他会很粗暴地把他赶出去，可能会伤害他。听着！莉兹回来了！

The other woman came hurriedly in as she spoke, and the boy got up with a half-obscured sense that he was expected to be going. When the little child awoke, and when and how Charley got at it, took it out of bed, and began to walk about hushing it, I don’t know. There she was, doing all this in a quiet motherly manner as if she were living in Mrs. Blinder’s attic with Tom and Emma again.
说话间另一个女人匆匆走了进来，男孩起身，隐隐约约感觉到他要走了。当这个小孩子醒来时，查理什么时候、如何把它从床上抱起来，然后开始走来走去，让它安静下来，我不知道。她就在那里，以一种安静的母亲般的方式做着这一切，就好像她又和汤姆和艾玛一起住在布林德太太的阁楼里一样。

The friend had been here and there, and had been played about from hand to hand, and had come back as she went. At first it was too early for the boy to be received into the proper refuge, and at last it was too late. One official sent her to another, and the other sent her back again to the first, and so backward and forward, until it appeared to me as if both must have been appointed for their skill in evading their duties instead of performing them. And now, after all, she said, breathing quickly, for she had been running and was frightened too, ‘Jenny, your master’s on the road home, and mine’s not far behind, and the Lord help the boy, for we can do no more for him!’ They put a few halfpence together and hurried them into his hand, and so, in an oblivious, half-thankful, half-insensible way, he shuffled out of the house.
这位朋友曾来过这里那里，被人玩弄过，又一边走一边回来。起初，男孩被接纳到适当的避难所还为时过早，但最后为时已晚。一位官员将她送到另一位，另一位又将她送回第一个，如此反复，直到在我看来，两人的任命似乎都是因为他们擅长逃避职责而不是履行职责。现在，毕竟，她呼吸急促，因为她一直在奔跑，也很害怕，“珍妮，你的主人正在回家的路上，我的主人就在不远处，愿上帝帮助这个男孩，因为我们无能为力。”他们把几个半便士放在一起，匆匆塞到他手里，于是，他以一种健忘、半感激、半麻木的方式拖着脚步走出了屋子。

‘Give me the child, my dear,’ said its mother to Charley, ‘and thank you kindly too! Jenny, woman dear, good night!
“把孩子给我吧，亲爱的，”孩子的母亲对查理说，“也谢谢你！”珍妮，亲爱的女人，晚安！

Young lady, if my master don’t fall out with me, I’ll look down by the kiln by and by, where the boy will be most like, and again in the morning!’ She hurried off, and presenfty we passed her hushing and singing to her child at her own door and looking anxiously along the road for her drunken husband.
小姐，如果我的主人不跟我闹翻，我就到窑边去看看，那儿是男孩最喜欢的地方，明天早上再来一次！”她匆匆离去，我们就从她身边走过了。她在自家门口小声地给孩子唱歌，焦急地沿路寻找醉酒的丈夫。

I was afraid of staying then to speak to either woman, lest I should bring her into trouble. But I said to Charley that we must not leave the boy to die. Charley, who knew what to do much better than I did, and whose quickness equalled her presence of mind, glided on before me, and presently we came up with Jo, just short of the brick-kiln.
我不敢留下来和任何一个女人说话，以免给她带来麻烦。但我对查理说，我们不能让这个男孩死去。查理比我更清楚该做什么，她的敏捷与她的冷静相当，她在我前面滑行，不久我们就遇到了乔，就在砖窑附近。

I think he must have begun his journey with some small bundle under his arm and must have had it stolen or lost it. For he still carried his wretched fragment of fur cap like a bundle, though he went bareheaded through the rain, which now fell fast. He stopped when we called to him and again showed a dread of me when I came up, standing with his lustrous eyes fixed upon me, and even arrested in his shivering fit.
我想他一定是腋下夹着一些小包裹开始了他的旅程，并且一定被偷了或丢失了。因为他仍然像包裹一样带着那破旧的毛皮帽碎片，尽管他光着头穿过雨，现在雨下得很快。当我们叫他时，他停了下来，当我走上来时，他再次表现出对我的恐惧，站着，用他那双明亮的眼睛盯着我，甚至在颤抖中停下来。

I asked him to come with us, and we would take care that he had some shelter for the night.
我请他和我们一起去，我们会照顾他有地方过夜。

‘I don’t want no shelter,’ he said; ‘I can lay amongst the warm bricks.’
“我不想要任何庇护所，”他说； “我可以躺在温暖的砖块中间。”

‘But don’t you know that people die there?’ replied Charley.
“但是你不知道人们会死在那里吗？”查理回答道。

‘They dies everywheres,’ said the boy. ‘They dies in their lodgings—she knows where; I showed her—and they dies down in Tomall-Alone’s in heaps. They dies more than they lives, according to what I see.’ Then he hoarsely whispered Charley, ‘If she ain’t the t’other one, she ain’t the forrenner. Is there THREE of ‘em then?’
“他们到处都死了，”男孩说。 “他们死在自己的住处——她知道在哪里；我给她看了——它们在托莫尔孤独屋里成堆地消失了。根据我的观察，他们死的次数多于活的次数。”然后他沙哑地低声对查利说：“如果她不是另一个人，她就不是那个先行者。那么他们是三个吗？

Charley looked at me a little frightened. I felt half frightened at myself when the boy glared on me so.
查理有点害怕地看着我。当那个男孩如此瞪着我时，我对自己感到有些害怕。

But he turned and followed when I beckoned to him, and finding that he acknowledged that influence in me, I led the way straight home. It was not far, only at the summit of the hill. We passed but one man. I doubted if we should have got home without assistance, the boy’s steps were so uncertain and tremulous. He made no complaint, however, and was strangely unconcerned about himself, if I may say so strange a thing.
但当我向他招手时，他转身跟着我，发现他承认了我对我的影响，我就直接带路回家了。距离并不远，就到了山顶。我们只经过了一个人。我怀疑我们是否应该在没有帮助的情况下回家，男孩的脚步如此不确定和颤抖。然而，他没有抱怨，而且奇怪的是，他对自己毫不关心，如果我可以说这是一件奇怪的事情的话。

Leaving him in the hall for a moment, shrunk into the corner of the window-seat and staring with an indifference that scarcely could be called wonder at the comfort and brightness about him, I went into the drawing-room to speak to my guardian. There I found Mr. Skimpole, who had come down by the coach, as he frequently did without notice, and never bringing any clothes with him, but always borrowing everything he wanted.
我把他留在大厅里一会儿，缩在靠窗座位的角落里，冷漠地盯着他，对他周围的舒适和明亮几乎不能称之为惊讶，然后我走进客厅和我的监护人说话。在那里我找到了斯金波尔先生，他乘马车下来，就像他经常在没有通知的情况下一样，从不带任何衣服，但总是借用他想要的一切。

They came out with me directly to look at the boy. The servants had gathered in the hall too, and he shivered in the window-seat with Charley standing by him, like some wounded animal that had been found in a ditch.
他们直接和我一起出来看那个男孩。仆人们也聚集在大厅里，他在靠窗的座位上瑟瑟发抖，查理站在他身边，就像在沟渠里发现的一只受伤的动物。

‘This is a sorrowful case,’ said my guardian after asking him a question or two and touching him and examining his eyes. ‘What do you say, Harold?’
“这是一个令人悲伤的案例，”我的监护人在问了他一两个问题并抚摸他并检查了他的眼睛后说道。 “哈罗德，你说什么？”

‘You had better turn him out,’ said Mr. Skimpole.
“你最好把他赶出去，”斯金波尔先生说。

‘What do you mean?’ inquired my guardian, almost sternly.
“你这是什么意思？”我的监护人近乎严厉地问道。

‘My dear Jarndyce,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘you know what I am: I am a child. Be cross to me if I deserve it. But I have a constitutional objection to this sort of thing. I always had, when I was a medical man. He’s not safe, you know. There’s a very bad sort of fever about him.’
“我亲爱的贾迪斯，”斯金波尔先生说，“你知道我是什么：我是个孩子。”如果我罪有应得的话，就对我发脾气吧。但我从宪法上反对这种事情。当我还是一名医生时，我一直都有。你知道，他并不安全。他发烧得很严重。

Mr. Skimpole had retreated from the hall to the drawing-room again and said this in his airy way, seated on the music-stool as we stood by.
斯金波尔先生又从大厅退到客厅，坐在音乐凳上，我们站在旁边，用他轻快的语气说了这句话。

‘You’ll say it’s childish,’ observed Mr. Skimpole, looking gaily at us. ‘Well, I dare say it may be; but I AM a child, and I never pretend to be anything else. If you put him out in the road, you only put him where he was before. He will be no worse off than he was, you know. Even make him better off, if you like. Give him sixpence, or five shillings, or five pound ten—you are arithmeticians, and I am not—and get rid of him!’
“你会说这很幼稚，”斯金波尔先生高兴地看着我们说道。 “好吧，我敢说可能是这样；”但我是个孩子，我从不假装自己是其他人。如果你把他放在路上，你只是把他放在原来的地方。你知道，他的处境不会比以前更糟。如果你愿意的话，甚至可以让他过得更好。给他六便士，或者五先令，或者五先令——你们是算术家，而我不是——然后除掉他！

‘And what is he to do then?’ asked my guardian.
“那他该怎么办呢？”我的监护人问道。

‘Upon my life,’ said Mr. Skimpole, shrugging his shoulders with his engaging smile, ‘I have not the least idea what he is to do then. But I have no doubt he’ll do it.’
“我以我的生命起誓，”斯金波尔先生一边说，一边微笑着耸了耸肩，“我根本不知道他到时候要做什么。”但我毫不怀疑他会这么做。”

‘Now, is it not a horrible reflection,’ said my guardian, to whom I had hastily explained the unavailing efforts of the two women, ‘is it not a horrible reflection,’ walking up and down and rumpling his hair, ‘that if this wretched creature were a convicted prisoner, his hospital would be wide open to him, and he would be as well taken care of as any sick boy in the kingdom?’
“现在，这不是一个可怕的反映吗？”我的监护人说，我匆忙向他解释了这两个女人徒劳的努力，“这不是一个可怕的反映吗？”他走来走去，揉乱了他的头发，“如果这个可怜的家伙是一个被定罪的囚犯，他的医院会向他敞开大门，他会像王国里任何生病的男孩一样得到很好的照顾吗？

‘My dear Jarndyce,’ returned Mr. Skimpole, ‘you’ll pardon the simplicity of the question, coming as it does from a creature who is perfectly simple in worldly matters, but why ISN’T he a prisoner then?’
“我亲爱的贾迪斯，”斯金波尔先生回答道，“你会原谅这个问题的简单性，因为它来自一个对世俗事务非常简单的生物，但为什么他不是一个囚犯呢？”

My guardian stopped and looked at him with a whimsical mixture of amusement and indignation in his face.
我的监护人停下来看着他，脸上的表情既有趣又愤慨。

‘Our young friend is not to be suspected of any delicacy, I should imagine,’ said Mr. Skimpole, unabashed and candid. ‘It seems to me that it would be wiser, as well as in a certain kind of way more respectable, if he showed some misdirected energy that got him into prison. There would be more of an adventurous spirit in it, and consequently more of a certain sort of poetry.’
“我想，我们的年轻朋友不会有任何精致的嫌疑，”斯基姆波尔先生毫不掩饰而坦率地说。 “在我看来，如果他表现出一些导致他入狱的错误精力，那会更明智，而且在某种程度上更受人尊敬。”其中会有更多的冒险精神，因此更多的是某种诗歌。”

‘I believe,’ returned my guardian, resuming his uneasy walk, ‘that there is not such another child on earth as yourself.’
“我相信，”我的监护人回答道，继续他不安的步伐，“地球上再没有像你这样的孩子了。”

‘Do you really?’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘I dare say! But I confess I don’t see why our young friend, in his degree, should not seek to invest himself with such poetry as is open to him. He is no doubt born with an appetite—probably, when he is in a safer state of health, he has an excellent appetite. Very well. At our young friend’s natural dinner hour, most likely about noon, our young friend says in effect to society, ‘I am hungry; will you have the goodness to produce your spoon and feed me?’ Society, which has taken upon itself the general arrangement of the whole system of spoons and professes to have a spoon for our young friend, does NOT produce that spoon; and our young friend, therefore, says ‘You really must excuse me if I seize it.’ Now, this appears to me a case of misdirected energy, which has a certain amount of reason in it and a certain amount of romance; and I don’t know but what I should be more interested in our young friend, as an illustration of such a case, than merely as a poor vagabond—which any one can be.’
“你真的吗？”斯金波尔先生说。 '我敢说！但我承认，我不明白为什么我们年轻的朋友，在他的学位上，不应该寻求向他自己开放的诗歌。毫无疑问，他生来就有胃口——也许，当他处于更安全的健康状态时，他的胃口就很好。很好。在我们年轻朋友自然的晚餐时间，很可能是中午，我们的年轻朋友实际上对社会说：“我饿了；我饿了；我饿了；我饿了；我饿了；我饿了。”你能拿出你的勺子来喂我吗？”社会，它已经承担了整个勺子系统的总体安排，并声称为我们的年轻朋友拥有一把勺子，但它并不生产那个勺子；它是一个勺子。因此，我们的年轻朋友说：“如果我抓住了它，你真的必须原谅我。” 现在，在我看来，这是一个能量被误导的例子，其中有一定的理由和一定的浪漫；我不知道我应该对我们的年轻朋友更感兴趣，作为这种情况的例证，而不是仅仅作为一个可怜的流浪汉——任何人都可以成为。

‘In the meantime,’ I ventured to observe, ‘he is getting worse.’
“与此同时，”我大胆地观察到，“他的情况越来越糟。”

‘In the meantime,’ said Mr. Skimpole cheerfully, ‘as Miss Summerson, with her practical good sense, observes, he is getting worse. Therefore I recommend your turning him out before he gets still worse.’
“与此同时，”斯金波尔先生高兴地说，“正如萨默森小姐凭着她实际敏锐的判断力所观察到的那样，他的情况越来越糟。因此我建议你在他变得更糟之前把他赶出去。

The amiable face with which he said it, I think I shall never forget.
他说这句话时的和蔼可亲的表情，我想我永远不会忘记。

‘Of course, little woman,’ observed my guardian, tuming to me, ‘I can ensure his admission into the proper place by merely going there to enforce it, though it’s a bad state of things when, in his condition, that is necessary. But it’s growing late, and is a very bad night, and the boy is worn out already. There is a bed in the wholesome loft-room by the stable; we had better keep him there till morning, when he can be wrapped up and removed. We’ll do that.’
“当然，小女人，”我的监护人转向我说道，“我只要去那里强制执行就可以确保他进入适当的地方，尽管在他的情况下，这是必要的，但情况很糟糕。” 。但天色已晚，这是一个非常糟糕的夜晚，男孩已经疲惫不堪了。马厩旁卫生的阁楼房间里有一张床；我们最好把他留在那里直到早上，那时他就可以被包裹起来并移走。我们会这么做的。

‘Oh!’ said Mr. Skimpole, with his hands upon the keys of the piano as we moved away. ‘Are you going back to our young friend?’
“哦！”我们走开时，斯金波尔先生双手放在钢琴键上说道。 “你要回到我们年轻朋友身边吗？”

‘Yes,’ said my guardian.
“是的，”我的监护人说。

‘How I envy you your constitution, Jarndyce!’ returned Mr. Skimpole with playful admiration. ‘You don’t mind these things; neither does Miss Summerson. You are ready at all times to go anywhere, and do anything. Such is will! I have no will at all—and no won’t—simply can’t.’
“我多么羡慕你的体格啊，贾迪斯！”斯金波尔先生带着俏皮的钦佩回答道。 ‘你不介意这些事情；萨默森小姐也没有。您随时准备好去任何地方、做任何事情。这就是意志！我根本没有意愿——也没有意愿——就是不能。

‘You can’t recommend anything for the boy, I suppose?’ said my guardian, looking back over his shoulder half angrily; only half angrily, for he never seemed to consider Mr. Skimpole an accountable being.
“我想你不能给这个男孩推荐任何东西吧？”我的监护人说道，半怒地回头看了一眼。只是半生气，因为他似乎从来不认为斯金波尔先生是一个负责任的人。

‘My dear Jarndyce, I observed a bottle of cooling medicine in his pocket, and it’s impossible for him to do better than take it. You can tell them to sprinkle a little vinegar about the place where he sleeps and to keep it moderately cool and him moderately warm. But it is mere impertinence in me to offer any recommendation. Miss Summerson has such a knowledge of detail and such a capacity for the administration of detail that she knows all about it.’
“我亲爱的贾迪斯，我发现他口袋里有一瓶退烧药，对他来说，除了服用它之外，别无他法。”你可以告诉他们在他睡觉的地方撒一点醋，保持适度凉爽和适度温暖。但我提出任何建议都是无礼的。萨默森小姐对细节的了解和管理细节的能力如此之高，以至于她对此了如指掌。

We went back into the hall and explained to Jo what we proposed to do, which Charley explained to him again and which he received with the languid unconcern I had already noticed, wearily looking on at what was done as if it were for somebody else. The servants compassionating his miserable state and being very anxious to help, we soon got the loft-room ready; and some of the men about the house carried him across the wet yard, well wrapped up. It was pleasant to observe how kind they were to him and how there appeared to be a general impression among them that frequently calling him ‘Old Chap’ was likely to revive his spirits. Charley directed the operations and went to and fro between the loft-room and the house with such little stimulants and comforts as we thought it safe to give him. My guardian himself saw him before he was left for the night and reported to me when he returned to the growlery to write a letter on the boy’s behalf, which a messenger was charged to deliver at day-light in the morning, that he seemed easier and inclined to sleep. They had fastened his door on the outside, he said, in case of his being delirious, but had so arranged that he could not make any noise without being heard.
我们回到大厅，向乔解释了我们打算做什么，查利又向他解释了一遍，他带着我已经注意到的慵懒的漠然态度接受了这一解释，疲倦地看着所做的事情，就好像这是为别人做的一样。仆人们同情他的悲惨处境，热心帮忙，很快我们就把阁楼房间准备好了。房子周围的一些人把他裹得严严实实，抬着穿过湿漉漉的院子。很高兴看到他们对他多么友善，而且他们之间似乎有一种普遍印象，经常叫他“老伙计”可能会让他精神振奋。查理指挥着行动，在阁楼房间和房子之间来回走动，带着我们认为安全的少量兴奋剂和舒适感。我的监护人在他离开过夜前亲自见到了他，并在他返回咆哮处为男孩写一封信时向我报告，这封信由一名信使在早上白天递送，他看起来更容易并倾向于睡觉。他说，他们把他的门锁在外面，以防他神志不清，但又安排得不能让他发出任何声音而不被人听到。

Ada being in our room with a cold, Mr. Skimpole was left alone all this time and entertained himself by playing snatches of pathetic airs and sometimes singing to them (as we heard at a distance) with great expression and feeling. When we rejoined him in the drawingroom he said he would give us a little ballad which had come into his head ‘apropos of our young friend,’ and he sang one about a peasant boy,
艾达因感冒而待在我们的房间里，斯金波尔先生一直独自一人，他通过演奏一些可怜的曲子来娱乐自己，有时还给他们唱歌（正如我们在远处听到的那样），表情丰富，感情丰富。当我们在客厅重新见到他时，他说他会给我们一首小歌谣，这首歌是他脑海中“关于我们年轻朋友的”，他唱了一首关于一个农民男孩的歌谣，

“Thrown on the wide world, doomed to wander and roam,
“被抛在广阔的世界上，注定要流浪和徜徉，

Bereft of his parents, bereft of a home.’
失去了父母，失去了家。”

quite exquisitely. It was a song that always made him cry, he told us.
相当精致。他告诉我们，这首歌总是让他哭泣。

He was extremely gay all the rest of the evening, for he absolutely chirped—those were his delighted words—when he thought by what a happy talent for business he was surrounded. He gave us, in his glass of negus, ‘Better health to our young friend!’ and supposed and gaily pursued the case of his being reserved like Whittington to become Lord Mayor of London. In that event, no doubt, he would establish the Jarndyce Institution and the Summerson Almshouses, and a little annual Corporation Pilgrimage to St. Albans. He had no doubt, he said, that our young friend was an excellent boy in his way, but his way was not the Harold Skimpole way; what Harold Skimpole was, Harold Skimpole had found himself, to his considerable surprise, when he first made his own acquaintance; he had accepted himself with all his failings and had thought it sound philosophy to make the best of the bargain; and he hoped we would do the same.
整个晚上他都非常高兴，因为当他想到周围有一个多么快乐的商业天才时，他绝对叽叽喳喳地叫着——这是他高兴的话语。他在他的酒杯里对我们说：“祝我们年轻的朋友身体健康！”并愉快地设想自己会像惠廷顿一样被保留，成为伦敦市长。在这种情况下，毫无疑问，他将建立贾迪斯学院和萨默森救济院，以及每年一次的小型公司圣奥尔本斯朝圣活动。他说，他毫不怀疑我们的年轻朋友在他的方式上是一个优秀的男孩，但他的方式不是哈罗德·斯金波尔的方式；他的方式是他的方式。当哈罗德·斯金波尔第一次结识哈罗德·斯金波尔时，他大吃一惊地发现了自己的身份。他接受了自己的所有缺点，并认为充分利用这笔交易是明智的。他希望我们也这样做。

Charley’s last report was that the boy was quiet. I could see, from my window, the lantern they had left him burning quietly; and I went to bed very happy to think that he was sheltered.
查理的最后报告是这个男孩很安静。从窗户里我可以看到他们留给他的灯笼静静地燃烧着。想到他受到庇护，我很高兴地上床睡觉。

There was more movement and more talking than usual a little before daybreak, and it awoke me. As I was dressing, I looked out of my window and asked one of our men who had been among the active sympathizers last night whether there was anything wrong about the house. The lantern was still burning in the loft-window.
天亮之前，比平常有更多的动静和更多的谈话，这让我醒了。当我穿衣服的时候，我向窗外望去，问昨晚活跃的同情者中的一位男士，这栋房子是否有什么问题。阁楼窗户上的灯笼还亮着。

‘It’s the boy, miss,’ said he.
“是那个男孩，小姐，”他说。

‘Is he worse?’ I inquired.
“他的情况更糟吗？”我问道。

‘Gone, miss.
‘走了，小姐。

‘Dead!’
'死的！'

‘Dead, miss? No. Gone clean off.’
‘死了吗，小姐？不，彻底消失了。”

At what time of the night he had gone, or how, or why, it seemed hopeless ever to divine. The door remaining as it had been left, and the lantern standing in the window, it could only be supposed that he had got out by a trap in the floor which communicated with an empty cart-house below. But he had shut it down again, if that were so; and it looked as if it had not been raised. Nothing of any kind was missing. On this fact being clearly ascertained, we all yielded to the painful belief that delirium had come upon him in the night and that, allured by some imaginary object or pursued by some imaginary horror, he had strayed away in that worse than helpless state; all of us, that is to say, but Mr. Skimpole, who repeatedly suggested, in his usual easy light style, that it had occurred to our young friend that he was not a safe inmate, having a bad kind of fever upon him, and that he had with great natural politeness taken himself off.
他是在晚上什么时候离开的，或者是如何离开的，或者为什么离开的，似乎永远无法预测。门还是原来的样子，窗子上挂着灯笼，只能推测他是通过地板上的一个陷阱逃出来的，这个陷阱与下面一个空的马车房相通。但如果是这样的话，他又把它关掉了；看起来好像没有被抬起来。没有任何东西丢失。在清楚地确定这一事实后，我们都屈服于痛苦的信念，认为他在夜间出现了谵妄，受到某种想象中的物体的诱惑或某种想象中的恐怖的追捕，他在那种比无助更糟糕的状态中迷失了方向；也就是说，我们所有人，除了斯金波尔先生，他以他惯常的轻松轻松的风格反复暗示，我们的年轻朋友突然意识到他不是一个安全的囚犯，他正发着严重的发烧，他自然而然地彬彬有礼地把自己脱掉了。

Every possible inquiry was made, and every place was searched. The brick-kilns were examined, the cottages were visited, the two women were particularly questioned, but they knew nothing of him, and nobody could doubt that their wonder was genuine. The weather had for some time been too wet and the night itself had been too wet to admit of any tracing by footsteps. Hedge and ditch, and wall, and rick and stack, were examined by our men for a long distance round, lest the boy should be lying in such a place insensible or dead; but nothing was seen to indicate that he had ever been near. From the time when he was left in the loft-room, he vanished.
每一个可能的询问都被进行了，每一个地方都被搜查了。人们检查了砖窑，参观了小屋，特别询问了两个女人，但她们对他一无所知，没有人会怀疑她们的惊奇是真实的。一段时间以来，天气太潮湿，夜晚也太潮湿，无法留下任何足迹。我们的人对树篱、沟渠、墙壁、草垛和堆垛进行了很长一段距离的检查，以免男孩躺在这样的地方失去知觉或死亡。但没有看到任何迹象表明他曾经靠近过。从他被留在阁楼房间的那一刻起，他就消失了。

The search continued for five days. I do not mean that it ceased even then, but that my attention was then diverted into a current very memorable to me.
搜寻工作持续了五天。我并不是说它甚至在那时就停止了，而是说我的注意力随后转移到了令我非常难忘的电流上。

As Charley was at her writing again in my room in the evening, and as I sat opposite to her at work, I felt the table tremble. Looking up, I saw my little maid shivering from head to foot.
晚上，当查理再次在我的房间里写作时，当我坐在她对面工作时，我感到桌子在颤抖。抬头一看，只见我的小丫鬟从头到脚都在瑟瑟发抖。

‘Charley,’ said I, ‘are you so cold?’
“查理，”我说，“你这么冷吗？”

‘I think I am, miss,’ she replied. ‘I don’t know what it is. I can’t hold myself still. I felt so yesterday at about this same time, miss. Don’t be uneasy, I think I’m ill.’
“我想是的，小姐，”她回答道。 ‘我不知道那是什么。我无法保持静止。昨天大约在同一时间我也有这样的感觉，小姐。别担心，我想我病了。”

I heard Ada’s voice outside, and I hurried to the door of communication between my room and our pretty sitting-room, and locked it. Just in time, for she tapped at it while my hand was yet upon the key.
我听到外面艾达的声音，我赶紧跑到我的房间和我们漂亮的客厅之间的连通门前，把门锁上。来得正是时候，因为她敲击了钥匙，而我的手还放在钥匙上。

Ada called to me to let her in, but I said, ‘Not now, my dearest. Go away. There’s nothing the matter; I will come to you presently.’ Ah! It was a long, long time before my darling girl and I were companions again.
艾达叫我让她进来，但我说：“现在不行，我最亲爱的。”离开。没什么问题；我马上就来找你。’啊！过了很长很长一段时间，我和我亲爱的女儿才再次成为伴侣。

Charley fell ill. In twelve hours she was very ill. I moved her to my room, and laid her in my bed, and sat down quietly to nurse her. I told my guardian all about it, and why I felt it was necessary that I should seclude myself, and my reason for not seeing my darling above all. At first she came very often to the door, and called to me, and even reproached me with sobs and tears; but I wrote her a long letter saying that she made me anxious and unhappy and imploring her, as she loved me and wished my mind to be at peace, to come no nearer than the garden. After that she came beneath the window even oftener than she had come to the door, and if I had learnt to love her dear sweet voice before when we were hardly ever apart, how did I learn to love it then, when I stood behind the window-curtain listening and replying, but not so much as looking out! How did I learn to love it afterwards, when the harder time came!
查理病倒了。十二个小时后，她病得很重。我把她搬到我的房间，把她放在床上，安静地坐下来护理她。我告诉了我的监护人这一切，以及为什么我觉得有必要自我隔离，以及最重要的是我没有见到我亲爱的人的原因。起初，她经常到门口来叫我，甚至哭着、流着泪责备我。但我给她写了一封长信，说她让我感到焦虑和不快乐，并恳求她，因为她爱我，希望我的心灵平静，不要靠近花园。从那以后，她从窗下来的次数比到门口来的次数还要多，如果说以前我们几乎不分开的时候我就已经学会了爱她那可爱甜美的声音，那么当我站在窗子后面时，我又是如何学会爱她的呢？窗帘式的倾听和回应，但与其说是向外看！当困难时期来临时，我是如何学会爱它的！

They put a bed for me in our sitting-room; and by keeping the door wide open, I turned the two rooms into one, now that Ada had vacated that part of the house, and kept them always fresh and airy. There was not a servant in or about the house but was so good that they would all most gladly have come to me at any hour of the day or night without the least fear or unwillingness, but I thought it best to choose one worthy woman who was never to see Ada and whom I could trust to come and go with all precaution. Through her means I got out to take the air with my guardian when there was no fear of meeting Ada, and wanted for nothing in the way of attendance, any more than in any other respect.
他们在客厅里为我放了一张床。现在艾达已经腾出了房子的那一部分，我把门一直开着，把两个房间变成了一个房间，并保持它们总是新鲜通风。房子里或房子周围没有一个仆人，但他们非常好，他们都非常乐意在白天或晚上的任何时候来找我，没有丝毫的恐惧或不情愿，但我认为最好选择一个有价值的女人我从来没有见过艾达，我可以相信她会小心翼翼地来来去去。通过她的帮助，我和我的监护人一起出去散步，不再害怕见到艾达，也不需要任何出席，比任何其他方面都更重要。

And thus poor Charley sickened and grew worse, and fell into heavy danger of death, and lay severely ill for many a long round of day and night. So patient she was, so uncomplaining, and inspired by such a gentle fortitude that very often as I sat by Charley holding her head in my arms—repose would come to her, so, when it would come to her in no other attitude—I silently prayed to our Father in heaven that I might not forget the lesson which this little sister taught me.
就这样，可怜的查理病了，病情越来越重，陷入了死亡的重重危险，病重地躺了很多个日日夜夜。她是如此耐心，如此毫无怨言，并受到如此温柔的刚毅的启发，以至于当我坐在查理旁边，将她的头抱在怀里时，她就会平静下来，所以，当她以其他态度平静时，我默默地向天父祈祷，让我不要忘记这个小妹妹给我的教训。

I was very sorrowful to think that Charley’s pretty looks would change and be disfigured, even if she recovered—she was such a child with her dimpled face—but that thought was, for the greater part, lost in her greater peril. When she was at the worst, and her mind rambled again to the cares of her father’s sick bed and the little children, she still knew me so far as that she would be quiet in my arms when she could lie quiet nowhere else, and murmur out the wanderings of her mind less restlessly. At those times I used to think, how should I ever tell the two remaining babies that the baby who had learned of her faithful heart to be a mother to them in their need was dead!
一想到查理美丽的容貌会发生变化并被毁容，即使她康复了——她还是个脸上有酒窝的孩子——我感到非常悲伤，但这个想法在很大程度上已经消失在她更大的危险中。当她最难受的时候，她的思绪又开始牵扯到父亲的病床和孩子们的忧虑上，她仍然了解我，以至于当她无法安静地躺在其他地方时，她会安静地躺在我的怀里，喃喃自语。她的思绪不再那么焦躁不安。那时我常常想，我该如何告诉剩下的两个婴儿，那个得知她忠实的心成为他们需要的母亲的婴儿已经死了！

There were other times when Charley knew me well and talked to me, telling me that she sent her love to Tom and Emma and that she was sure Tom would grow up to be a good man. At those times Charley would speak to me of what she had read to her father as well as she could to comfort him, of that young man carried out to be buried who was the only son of his mother and she was a widow, of the ruler’s daughter raised up by the gracious hand upon her bed of death. And Charley told me that when her father died she had kneeled down and prayed in her first sorrow that he likewise might be raised up and given back to his poor children, and that if she should never get better and should die too, she thought it likely that it might come into Tom’s mind to offer the same prayer for her. Then would I show Tom how these people of old days had been brought back to life on earth, only that we might know our hope to be restored to heaven!
还有几次，查理很了解我，并与我交谈，告诉我她向汤姆和艾玛表达了她的爱，并且她确信汤姆长大后会成为一个好男人。那时查理会向我讲述她读给她父亲听的内容，以及她尽可能安慰他的内容，以及那个被抬去埋葬的年轻人的故事，他是他母亲唯一的儿子，而她是一个寡妇，统治者的女儿在临终前被仁慈的手扶起。查理告诉我，当她父亲去世时，她在第一次悲伤中跪下来祈祷，希望他也能复活并回到他可怜的孩子们身边，如果她永远不会好起来，也应该死，她想汤姆可能也会想到为她做同样的祈祷。然后我会向汤姆展示这些过去的人们是如何在地球上复活的，只是为了让我们知道我们恢复天堂的希望！

But of all the various times there were in Charley’s illness, there was not one when she lost the gentle qualities I have spoken of. And there were many, many when I thought in the night of the last high belief in the watching angel, and the last higher trust in God, on the part of her poor despised father.
但在查理生病的各个时期中，没有一次她失去了我所说的温柔品质。那天晚上，当我想到她那可怜的、被鄙视的父亲对守护天使的最后一次高度信仰，以及对上帝最后一次更高的信任时，我想到了很多很多。

And Charley did not die. She flutteringiy and slowly turned the dangerous point, after long lingering there, and then began to mend. The hope that never had been given, from the first, of Charley being in outward appearance Charley any more soon began to be encouraged; and even that prospered, and I saw her growing into her old childish likeness again.
查理并没有死。她轻飘飘地，慢慢地转过了那个危险点，在那儿徘徊了很久之后，才开始好转。从一开始就从未抱有的希望，即查理在外表上不再是查理的希望，很快就开始受到鼓舞。即便如此，我也看到她又恢复了原来的孩子气。

It was a great morning when I could tell Ada all this as she stood out in the garden; and it was a great evening when Charley and I at last took tea together in the next room. But on that same evening, I felt that I was stricken cold.
这是一个美好的早晨，当艾达站在花园里时，我可以告诉她这一切。这是一个美好的夜晚，查理和我终于在隔壁房间一起喝茶。但当天晚上，我就感觉浑身发冷。

Happily for both of us, it was not until Charley was safe in bed again and placidly asleep that I began to think the contagion of her illness was upon me. I had been able easily to hide what I felt at tea-time, but I was past that already now, and I knew that I was rapidly following in Charley’s steps.
让我们俩感到高兴的是，直到查理再次安全地躺在床上并平静地睡着时，我才开始认为她的病已经传染到了我身上。我很容易隐藏自己在喝茶时的感受，但现在我已经过去了，我知道我正在迅速追随查理的脚步。

I was well enough, however, to be up early in the morning, and to return my darling’s cheerful blessing from the garden, and to talk with her as long as usual. But I was not free from an impression that I had been walking about the two rooms in the night, a little beside myself, though knowing where I was; and I felt confused at times—with a curious sense of fullness, as if I were becoming too large altogether.
不过，我的身体状况还不错，可以一大早就起床，从花园里回报我亲爱的人的快乐祝福，并像平常一样与她交谈。但我还是没有摆脱这样的印象：夜里我一直在这两个房间里走来走去，有点疯狂，尽管我知道自己在哪里；有时我感到困惑——有一种奇怪的充实感，好像我变得太大了。

In the evening I was so much worse that I resolved to prepare Charley, with which view I said, ‘You’re getting quite strong, Charley, are you not?’
晚上，我的情况变得更糟，所以我决定让查理做好准备，我抱着这样的想法说：“查理，你已经变得很强壮了，不是吗？”

‘Oh, quite!’ said Charley.
“噢，完全可以！”查理说。

‘Strong enough to be told a secret, I think, Charley?’
“我想，查理，足够坚强，可以告诉别人一个秘密吗？”

‘Quite strong enough for that, miss!’ cried Charley. But Charley’s face fell in the height of her delight, for she saw the secret in MY face; and she came out of the great chair, and fell upon my bosom, and said ‘Oh, miss, it’s my doing! It’s my doing!’ and a great deal more out of the fullness of her grateful heart.
“足够强大了，小姐！”查理喊道。但查理的脸因喜悦而落下，因为她在我脸上看到了秘密；她从大椅子上走出来，倒在我怀里，说：“哦，小姐，这是我做的！”这是我做的！”而且更多的是出于她内心的感激之情。

‘Now, Charley,’ said I after letting her go on for a little while, ‘if I am to be ill, my great trust, humanly speaking, is in you. And unless you are as quiet and composed for me as you always were for yourself, you can never fulfil it, Charley.’
“现在，查理，”我让她继续说了一会儿后说道，“如果我生病了，从人的角度来说，我最大的信任就是你。除非你像对待自己一样对我保持安静和镇定，否则你永远无法实现它，查理。

‘If you’ll let me cry a little longer, miss,’ said Charley. ‘Oh, my dear, my dear! If you’ll only let me cry a little longer. Oh, my dear!’—how affectionately and devotedly she poured this out as she clung to my neck, I never can remember without tears—‘I’ll be good.’
“如果你能让我再哭一会儿，小姐，”查利说。 ‘哦，亲爱的，亲爱的！如果你能让我再哭一会儿就好了。哦，亲爱的！”——她搂着我的脖子，多么深情又虔诚地倾诉着这句话，我总是不禁热泪盈眶地回忆着——“我会很好的。”

So I let Charley cry a little longer, and it did us both good.
所以我让查理再哭一会儿，这对我们俩都有好处。

‘Trust in me now, if you please, miss,’ said Charley quietly. ‘I am listening to everything you say.’
“现在请相信我，小姐，”查理平静地说。 “我正在听你说的一切。”

‘It’s very little at present, Charley. I shall tell your doctor to-night that I don’t think I am well and that you are going to nurse me.’
“目前还很少，查理。”今晚我会告诉你的医生，我认为我不太好，你要照顾我。

For that the poor child thanked me with her whole heart. ‘And in the morning, when you hear Miss Ada in the garden, if I should not be quite able to go to the window-curtain as usual, do you go, Charley, and say I am asleep—that I have rather tired myself, and am asleep. At all times keep the room as I have kept it, Charley, and let no one come.’
为此，这个可怜的孩子全心全意地感谢我。 “早上，当你在花园里听到艾达小姐的声音时，如果我不能像往常一样走到窗帘那儿，你会去吗，查理，说我睡着了——我自己已经很累了。” ，然后我就睡着了。查理，请始终保持房间的整洁，不要让任何人进来。

Charley promised, and I lay down, for I was very heavy. I saw the doctor that night and asked the favour of him that I wished to ask relative to his saying nothing of my illness in the house as yet. I have a very indistinct remembrance of that night melting into day, and of day melting into night again; but I was just able on the first morning to get to the window and speak to my darling.
查理答应了，然后我躺了下来，因为我很重。那天晚上我去看了医生，向他求助，我想向他求助，但他在家里对我的病只字不提。我非常模糊地记得那天黑夜变成了白昼，白昼又变成了黑夜。但第一天早上我才能够走到窗前和我亲爱的说话。

On the second morning I heard her dear voice—Oh, how dear now!— outside; and I asked Charley, with some difficulty (speech being painful to me), to go and say I was asleep. I heard her answer softly, ‘Don’t disturb her, Charley, for the world!’
第二天早上，我在外面听到了她可爱的声音——哦，现在多么可爱啊！我有些困难地请查理（说话对我来说很痛苦），去告诉他我睡着了。我听到她轻声回答：“查理，别打扰她！”

‘How does my own Pride look, Charley?’ I inquired.
“我的骄傲看起来怎么样，查理？”我问道。

‘Disappointed, miss,’ said Charley, peeping through the curtain.
“很失望，小姐，”查理透过窗帘往外看。

‘But I know she is very beautiful this morning.’
“但我知道她今天早上非常漂亮。”

‘She is indeed, miss,’ answered Charley, peeping. ‘Still looking up at the window.’
“确实是，小姐，”查利偷偷地回答。 “仍然抬头看着窗户。”

With her blue clear eyes, God bless them, always loveliest when raised like that!
有着她蓝色清澈的眼睛，上帝保佑她们，这样长大的时候总是最可爱的！

I called Charley to me and gave her her last charge.
我把查理叫到身边，给了她最后的嘱托。

‘Now, Charley, when she knows I am ill, she will try to make her way into the room. Keep her out, Charley, if you love me truly, to the last! Charley, if you let her in but once, only to look upon me for one moment as I lie here, I shall die.’
“现在，查理，当她知道我病了时，她会试图走进房间。查理，如果你真的爱我，就别让她进来，直到最后！查理，如果你只让她进来一次，只是为了在我躺在这里的时候看我一会儿，我就会死。

‘I never will! I never will!’ she promised me.
‘我永远不会！我永远不会！”她向我保证。

‘I believe it, my dear Charley. And now come and sit beside me for a little while, and touch me with your hand. For I cannot see you, Charley; I am blind.’
“我相信，我亲爱的查理。现在过来在我身边坐一会儿，用手抚摸我。因为我看不见你，查理；我是盲人。

CHAPTER XXXII
第三十二章


The Appointed Time
指定时间

It is night in Lincoln’s Inn—perplexed and troublous valley of the shadow of the law, where suitors generally find but little day—and fat candles are snuffed out in offices, and clerks have rattled down the crazy wooden stairs and dispersed. The bell that rings at nine o’clock has ceased its doleful clangour about nothing; the gates are shut; and the night-porter, a solemn warder with a mighty power of sleep, keeps guard in his lodge. From tiers of staircase windows clogged lamps like the eyes of Equity, bleared Argus with a fathomless pocket for every eye and an eye upon it, dimly blink at the stars. In dirty upper casements, here and there, hazy little patches of candlelight reveal where some wise draughtsman and conveyancer yet toils for the entanglement of real estate in meshes of sheep-skin, in the average ratio of about a dozen of sheep to an acre of land. Over which bee-like industry these benefactors of their species linger yet, though office-hours be past, that they may give, for every day, some good account at last.
林肯律师学院是一个夜晚，法律阴影下的一个令人困惑和麻烦的山谷，求婚者通常在那里找到的时间很少。办公室里的粗蜡烛被熄灭，职员们嘎嘎地走下疯狂的木楼梯并散去。九点钟敲响的钟声已经停止了无缘无故的凄凉叮当声；城门关闭；夜间看门人是一位严肃的看守，具有强大的睡眠能力，在他的小屋里看守。楼梯间的窗户上布满了灯，就像公平的眼睛一样，昏暗的阿古斯每只眼睛都有一个深不可测的口袋，一只眼睛盯着它，朦胧地眨着眼睛看着星星。在脏兮兮的上层窗户里，到处都是朦胧的小片烛光，揭示了一些聪明的绘图员和产权转让师仍在辛勤地将房地产缠在羊皮网中，平均比例为一英亩土地大约有十几只羊。土地。尽管下班时间已经过去，但这些蜜蜂般的行业的恩人仍然在他们的物种中徘徊，以便他们最终可以每天做出一些好的贡献。

In the neighbouring court, where the Lord Chancellor of the rag and bottle shop dwells, there is a general tendency towards beer and supper. Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Perkins, whose respective sons, engaged with a circle of acquaintance in the game of hide and seek, have been lying in ambush about the by-ways of Chancery Lane for some hours and scouring the plain of the same thoroughfare to the confusion of passengers—Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Perkins have but now exchanged congratulations on the children being abed, and they still linger on a door-step over a few parting words. Mr. Krook and his lodger, and the fact of Mr. Krook’s being ‘continually in liquor,’ and the testamentary prospects of the young man are, as usual, the staple of their conversation. But they have something to say, likewise, of the Harmonic Meeting at the Sol’s Arms, where the sound of the piano through the partly opened windows jingles out into the court, and where Little Swills, after keeping the lovers of harmony in a roar like a very Yorick, may now be heard taking the gruff line in a concerted piece and sentimentally adjuring his friends and patrons to ‘Listen, listen, listen, tew the wa-ter fall!’ Mrs. Perkins and Mrs. Piper compare opinions on the subject of the young lady of professional celebrity who assists at the Harmonic Meetings and who has a space to herself in the manuscript announcement in the window, Mrs. Perkins possessing information that she has been married a year and a half, though announced as Miss M. Melvilleson, the noted siren, and that her baby is clandestinely conveyed to the Sol’s Arms every night to receive its natural nourishment during the entertainments. ‘Sooner than which, myself,’ says Mrs. Perkins, ‘I would get my living by selling lucifers.’ Mrs. Piper, as in duty bound, is of the same opinion, holding that a private station is better than public applause, and thanking heaven for her own (and, by implication, Mrs. Perkins’) respectability. By this time the pot-boy of the Sol’s Arms appearing with her supper-pint well frothed, Mrs. Piper accepts that tankard and retires indoors, first giving a fair good night to Mrs. Perkins, who has had her own pint in her hand ever since it was fetched from the same hostelry by young Perkins before he was sent to bed. Now there is a sound of putting up shopshutters in the court and a smell as of the smoking of pipes; and shooting stars are seen in upper windows, further indicating retirement to rest. Now, too, the policeman begins to push at doors; to try fastenings; to be suspicious of bundles; and to administer his beat, on the hypothesis that every one is either robbing or being robbed.
在附近的宫廷里，也就是破布和酒瓶店的大法官居住的地方，人们普遍喜欢喝啤酒和吃晚饭。派珀夫人和珀金斯夫人各自的儿子们在大法官巷的小道上埋伏了几个小时，并在同一条大道的平原上进行了搜查。令乘客感到困惑的是——派珀和珀金斯夫人现在已经就孩子们入睡交换了祝贺，他们仍然在门阶上徘徊，说了几句临别赠言。像往常一样，克鲁克先生和他的房客、克鲁克先生“不断酗酒”的事实以及年轻人的遗嘱前景是他们谈话的主要内容。但他们也有话要说，同样，关于在索尔之臂举行的和谐会议，钢琴的声音通过半开的窗户叮叮当当地传到庭院里，小斯威尔斯在让和谐爱好者们咆哮之后，像一个非常约里克的人，现在可能会听到在一首协奏曲中采取粗暴的路线，并感伤地恳求他的朋友和赞助人“听，听，听，拉瀑布！”帕金斯夫人和派珀夫人比较了对这个问题的看法。主题是在和谐会议上提供协助的职业名人年轻女士，她在窗口的手稿公告中拥有自己的空间，帕金斯夫人掌握着她已经结婚一年半的信息，尽管宣布为 M 小姐梅尔维尔森，著名的海妖，她的孩子每天晚上都会被秘密地送到索尔之臂，在娱乐活动期间接受它的天然营养。 “我自己，”帕金斯夫人说，“很快我就能靠卖路西法谋生了。” 出于义务，派珀也持同样的观点，认为私人地位比公众的掌声更好，并感谢上天赐予她自己（也暗指帕金斯夫人）的受人尊敬。这时，索尔阿姆斯的伙计出现了，她的晚餐品脱啤酒泡沫丰富，派珀夫人接受了酒杯，然后回到室内，首先向帕金斯夫人道了晚安，她手里拿着自己的品脱啤酒自从年轻的珀金斯在被送去睡觉之前从同一家旅馆取来它之后。现在院子里传来关门声和烟斗味。上方的窗户中出现流星，进一步表明退休休息。现在，警察也开始推门。尝试紧固；对捆绑持怀疑态度；并管理他的节奏，假设每个人要么在抢劫，要么被抢劫。

It is a close night, though the damp cold is searching too, and there is a laggard mist a little way up in the air. It is a fine steaming night to turn the slaughter-houses, the unwholesome trades, the sewerage, bad water, and burial-grounds to account, and give the registrar of deaths some extra business. It may be something in the air—there is plenty in it—or it may be something in himself that is in fault; but Mr. Weevle, otherwise Jobling, is very ill at ease. He comes and goes between his own room and the open street door twenty times an hour. He has been doing so ever since it fell dark. Since the Chancellor shut up his shop, which he did very early to-night, Mr. Weevle has been down and up, and down and up (with a cheap tight velvet skull-cap on his head, making his whiskers look out of all proportion), oftener than before.
这是一个寒冷的夜晚，但潮湿的寒冷也在逼近，空气中飘荡着一层迟缓的薄雾。这是一个天气热气腾腾的夜晚，可以对屠宰场、不健康的贸易、下水道、坏水和墓地进行调查，并给死亡登记员一些额外的工作。可能是空气中的某些东西——空气中有很多东西——或者可能是他自己的某些东西出了问题；但韦夫勒先生，除了乔布林之外，却非常不安。他每小时在自己的房间和敞开的门之间来回二十次。从天黑以后他就一直这样做。自从财政大臣今晚很早就关门了之后，韦夫勒先生就一直情绪低落、情绪高涨（他头上戴着一顶廉价的紧身天鹅绒无檐便帽，让他的胡须看起来很突兀）比例），比以前更频繁。

It is no phenomenon that Mr. Snagsby should be ill at ease too, for he always is so, more or less, under the oppressive influence of the secret that is upon him. Impelled by the mystery of which he is a partaker and yet in which he is not a sharer, Mr. Snagsby haunts what seems to be its fountain-head—the rag and bottle shop in the court. It has an irresistible attraction for him. Even now, coming round by the Sol’s Arms with the intention of passing down the court, and out at the Chancery Lane end, and so terminating his unpremeditated after-supper stroll of ten minutes’ long from his own door and back again, Mr. Snagsby approaches.
斯纳格斯比先生也难免感到不安，这并不是什么现象，因为他总是或多或少地受到这个秘密的压抑影响。斯纳格斯比先生受到他参与但又不参与其中的神秘感的驱使，经常出没于似乎是其源头的地方——宫廷里的破布和瓶子店。这对他来说有着不可抗拒的吸引力。即便是现在，他绕过索尔臂，打算穿过法庭，到大法官巷的尽头，结束了他在晚饭后从自家门口来来回走十分钟的漫无目的的散步。斯纳斯比走近。

‘What, Mr. Weevle?’ says the stationer, stopping to speak. ‘Are YOU there?’
“什么，威夫勒先生？”文具店员停下来说话。 '你在吗？'

‘Aye!’ says Weevle, ‘Here I am, Mr. Snagsby.’
“是的！”威夫勒说道，“我在这里，斯纳斯比先生。”

‘Airing yourself, as I am doing, before you go to bed?’ the stationer inquires.
“你睡觉前，像我一样，让自己通风一下吗？”文具店员问道。

‘Why, there’s not much air to be got here; and what there is, is not very freshening,’ Weevle answers, glancing up and down the court.
‘哎呀，这里没有多少空气了；威勒回答道，他环视球场上下。

‘Very true, sir. Don’t you observe,’ says Mr. Snagsby, pausing to sniff and taste the air a little, ‘don’t you observe, Mr. Weevle, that you’re—not to put too fine a point upon it—that you’re rather greasy here, sir?’
“非常正确，先生。 “你难道没有注意到吗？”斯纳格斯比先生说，他停下来闻了闻，尝了一下空气的味道，“你难道没有注意到吗，威夫勒先生，你——别说得太过分了——你“这里有点油腻，先生？”

‘Why, I have noticed myself that there is a queer kind of flavour in the place to-night,’ Mr. Weevle rejoins. ‘I suppose it’s chops at the Sol’s Arms.’
“哎呀，我自己注意到今晚这个地方有一种奇怪的味道，”韦夫勒先生回答道。 “我想是索尔之臂上的印章。”

‘Chops, do you think? Oh! Chops, eh?’ Mr. Snagsby sniffs and tastes again. ‘Well, sir, I suppose it is. But I should say their cook at the Sol wanted a little looking after. She has been burning ‘em, sir! And I don’t think’—Mr. Snagsby sniffs and tastes again and then spits and wipes his mouth—‘I don’t think— not to put too fine a point upon it—that they were quite fresh when they were shown the gridiron.’
‘乔普斯，你觉得呢？哦！排骨，嗯？”斯纳斯比先生闻了闻，又尝了尝。 “嗯，先生，我想是这样。但我应该说他们在索尔的厨师需要一点照顾。她一直在烧它们，先生！我不认为’——先生。斯纳斯比又闻了闻，尝了尝，然后吐了口唾沫，擦了擦嘴——“我不认为——不要过分强调——当它们被带到烤架上时，它们还很新鲜。”

‘That’s very likely. It’s a tainting sort of weather.’
‘这很有可能。这是一种有污染的天气。

‘It IS a tainting sort of weather,’ says Mr. Snagsby, ‘and I find it sinking to the spirits.’
“这是一种令人厌恶的天气，”斯纳斯比先生说，“我发现它让人心情低落。”

‘By George! I find it gives me the horrors,’ returns Mr. Weevle.
‘乔治！ “我发现它让我感到恐惧。”韦弗勒先生回答道。

‘Then, you see, you live in a lonesome way, and in a lonesome room, with a black circumstance hanging over it,’ says Mr. Snagsby, looking in past the other’s shoulder along the dark passage and then falling back a step to look up at the house. ‘I couldn’t live in that room alone, as you do, sir. I should get so fidgety and worried of an evening, sometimes, that I should be driven to come to the door and stand here sooner than sit there. But then it’s very true that you didn’t see, in your room, what I saw there. That makes a difference.’
“然后，你看，你生活在一个孤独的方式中，在一个孤独的房间里，上面笼罩着一层黑色的环境，”斯纳斯比先生说，沿着黑暗的通道越过对方的肩膀，然后向后退了一步，抬头看看房子。 “我不能像你一样独自住在那个房间里，先生。有时候，我会因为晚上而变得烦躁和担心，以至于我应该早点走到门口站在这里，而不是坐在那里。但确实，你在你的房间里没有看到我在那里看到的东西。这很重要。

‘I know quite enough about it,’ returns Tony.
“我对此了解得够多了，”托尼回答道。

‘It’s not agreeable, is it?’ pursues Mr. Snagsby, coughing his cough of mild persuasion behind his hand. ‘Mr. Krook ought to consider it in the rent. I hope he does, I am sure.’
“这不太舒服，是吗？”斯纳斯比先生问道，用手背后轻咳着咳嗽声。 '先生。克鲁克应该在租金中考虑这一点。我确信我希望他这么做。

‘I hope he does,’ says Tony. ‘But I doubt it.’
“我希望他这么做，”托尼说。 “但我对此表示怀疑。”

‘You find the rent too high, do you, sir?’ returns the stationer. ‘Rents ARE high about here. I don’t know how it is exactly, but the law seems to put things up in price. Not,’ adds Mr. Snagsby with his apologetic cough, ‘that I mean to say a word against the profession I get my living by.’
“您觉得房租太高了，先生，是吗？”文具店老板回答道。 “这里的租金很高。我不知道到底是怎么回事，但法律似乎规定了价格。斯纳格斯比先生带着歉意的咳嗽声补充道，“我并不是想对我赖以谋生的职业说一句话。”

Mr. Weevle again glances up and down the court and then looks at the stationer. Mr. Snagsby, blankly catching his eye, looks upward for a star or so and coughs a cough expressive of not exactly seeing his way out of this conversation.
韦弗勒先生再次环顾球场，然后看向文具店员。斯纳斯比先生茫然地与他的目光对视，向上寻找一颗星星左右，然后咳了一声，表示没有完全摆脱这场谈话。

‘It’s a curious fact, sir,’ he observes, slowly rubbing his hands, ‘that he should have been—‘
“这是一个奇怪的事实，先生，”他慢慢地搓着手，说道，“他本应该——”

‘Who’s he?’ interrupts Mr. Weevle.
“他是谁？”威弗尔先生打断道。

‘The deceased, you know,’ says Mr. Snagsby, twitching his head and right eyebrow towards the staircase and tapping his acquaintance on the button.
“死者，你知道的，”斯纳斯比先生说，他把头和右眉毛扭向楼梯，然后按下了他熟人的按钮。

‘Ah, to be sure!’ returns the other as if he were not over-fond of the subject. ‘I thought we had done with him.’
“啊，当然！”对方回答道，好像他并不太喜欢这个话题。 “我以为我们已经和他了结了。”

‘I was only going to say it’s a curious fact, sir, that he should have come and lived here, and been one of my writers, and then that you should come and live here, and be one of my writers too. Which there is nothing derogatory, but far from it in the appellation,’ says Mr. Snagsby, breaking off with a mistrust that he may have unpolitely asserted a kind of proprietorship in Mr. Weevle, ‘because I have known writers that have gone into brewers’ houses and done really very respectable indeed. Eminently respectable, sir,’ adds Mr. Snagsby with a misgiving that he has not improved the matter.
“我只想说，这是一个奇怪的事实，先生，他应该来这里住在这里，成为我的作家之一，然后你也应该来这里住在这里，也成为我的作家之一。斯纳格斯比先生说，这并没有什么贬义，但在这个称谓中却远非如此。”斯纳格斯比先生说，他不相信自己可能不礼貌地宣称自己对韦夫勒先生有某种所有权，“因为我认识一些作家，他们已经进入了韦夫勒先生的行列。啤酒厂的工作确实非常令人尊敬。非常值得尊敬，先生。”斯纳斯比先生补充道，他对自己没有改善这一问题感到疑虑。

‘It’s a curious coincidence, as you say,’ answers Weevle, once more glancing up and down the court.
“正如你所说，这是一个奇怪的巧合，”威勒回答道，再次环顾球场。

‘Seems a fate in it, don’t there?’ suggests the stationer.
“这似乎是一种命运，不是吗？”文具店老板建议道。

‘There does.’
“确实有。”

‘Just so,’ observes the stationer with his confirmatory cough. ‘Quite a fate in it. Quite a fate. Well, Mr. Weevle, I am afraid I must bid you good night’—Mr. Snagsby speaks as if it made him desolate to go, though he has been casting about for any means of escape ever since he stopped to speak—‘my little woman will be looking for me else. Good night, sir!’
“正是如此，”文具店员咳嗽着确认道。 ‘这真是一种命运。真是缘分啊。好吧，韦夫勒先生，恐怕我必须向您道晚安”——韦夫勒先生。斯纳斯比说得好像离开让他感到孤独，尽管自从他停下来说话以来，他一直在寻找任何逃跑的办法——“我的小女人会去找别的人。”晚安先生！'

If Mr. Snagsby hastens home to save his little woman the trouble of looking for him, he might set his mind at rest on that score. His little woman has had her eye upon him round the Sol’s Arms all this time and now glides after him with a pocket handkerchief wrapped over her head, honourmg Mr. Weevle and his doorway with a searching glance as she goes past.
如果斯纳斯比先生赶紧回家，免去他的小女人寻找他的麻烦，他可能会在这一点上放心。他的小女人一直在索尔之臂周围注视着他，现在她头上包着一块口袋手帕，跟在他后面，在经过时用审视的目光向韦弗勒先生和他的门口致敬。

‘You’ll know me again, ma’am, at all events,’ says Mr. Weevle to himself; ‘and I can’t compliment you on your appearance, whoever you are, with your head tied up in a bundle. Is this fellow NEVER coming!’
“无论如何，你会再次认识我的，女士，”威弗尔先生自言自语道。 “而且无论你是谁，你的头被绑起来，我都无法称赞你的外表。这家伙永远不会来吗？

This fellow approaches as he speaks. Mr. Weevle softly holds up his finger, and draws him into the passage, and closes the street door. Then they go upstairs, Mr. Weevle heavily, and Mr. Guppy (for it is he) very lightly indeed. When they are shut into the back room, they speak low.
这家伙一边说话一边走近。韦弗勒先生轻轻地举起手指，把他拉进过道，关上了临街的门。然后他们上楼，威夫勒先生很重，而古比先生（因为是他）确实很轻。当他们被关进里屋时，他们说话都很低声。

‘I thought you had gone to Jericho at least instead of coming here,’ says Tony.
“我以为你至少去了杰里科而不是来这里，”托尼说。

‘Why, I said about ten.’
“为什么，我说大约十个。”

‘You said about ten,’ Tony repeats. ‘Yes, so you did say about ten. But according to my count, it’s ten times ten—it’s a hundred o’clock. I never had such a night in my life!’
“你说大约十个，”托尼重复道。 “是的，所以你确实说了大约十个。但我数了数，十乘十——一百点了。我一生中从未经历过这样的夜晚！

‘What has been the matter?’
“出了什么事？”

‘That’s it!’ says Tony. ‘Nothing has been the matter. But here have I been stewing and fuming in this jolly old crib till I have had the horrors falling on me as thick as hail. THERE’S a blessedlooking candle!’ says Tony, pointing to the heavily burning taper on his table with a great cabbage head and a long winding-sheet.
“就是这样！”托尼说。 ‘没什么问题。但我一直在这个快乐的旧婴儿床上煎熬和冒烟，直到我的恐惧像冰雹一样厚重地降临在我身上。托尼指着桌子上燃烧着的蜡烛说道，蜡烛上有一个巨大的卷心菜头和一条长长的裹尸布。

‘That’s easily improved,’ Mr. Guppy observes as he takes the snuffers in hand.
“这很容易改进，”古比先生一边拿着剪子一边说道。

‘IS it?’ returns his friend. ‘Not so easily as you think. It has been smouldering like that ever since it was lighted.’
“是吗？”他的朋友回答道。 ‘并不像你想象的那么容易。自从点燃以来，它就一直这样闷烧着。”

‘Why, what’s the matter with you, Tony?’ inquires Mr. Guppy, looking at him, snuffers in hand, as he sits down with his elbow on the table.
“怎么了，你怎么了，托尼？”古皮先生问道，一边手肘撑在桌子上一边坐下来，手里拿着鼻烟。

‘William Guppy,’ replies the other, ‘I am in the downs. It’s this unbearably dull, suicidal room—and old Boguey downstairs, I suppose.’ Mr. Weevle moodily pushes the snuffers-tray from him with his elbow, leans his head on his hand, puts his feet on the fender, and looks at the fire. Mr. Guppy, observing him, slightly tosses his head and sits down on the other side of the table in an easy attitude.
“威廉·古比，”另一个回答道，“我正处于低谷。”就是这个令人难以忍受的沉闷、自杀式的房间——我想楼下还有老博吉。”韦夫勒先生情绪低落地用肘部把鼻烟盘推开，用手托着头，把脚放在挡泥板上，看着房间。火。顾比先生观察着他，微微摇头，态度轻松地在桌子的另一边坐下。

‘Wasn’t that Snagsby talking to you, Tony?’
“那不是斯纳斯比在跟你说话吗，托尼？”

‘Yes, and he—yes, it was Snagsby,’ said Mr. Weevle, altering the construction of his sentence.
“是的，他——是的，是斯纳格斯比，”威弗尔先生说，改变了句子的结构。

‘On business?’
“出差？”

‘No. No business. He was only sauntering by and stopped to prose.’
'不。没有生意。他只是闲逛，然后停下来写散文。

‘I thought it was Snagsby,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘and thought it as well that he shouldn’t see me, so I waited till he was gone.’
“我以为是斯纳斯比，”古比先生说，“而且我也认为他不应该看到我，所以我一直等到他走掉。”

‘There we go again, William G.!’ cried Tony, looking up for an instant. ‘So mysterious and secret! By George, if we were going to commit a murder, we couldn’t have more mystery about it!’
“又来了，威廉·G！”托尼突然抬起头喊道。 ‘如此神秘和秘密！乔治，如果我们要谋杀，我们就不能再有更多的神秘感了！

Mr. Guppy affects to smile, and with the view of changing the conversation, looks with an admiration, real or pretended, round the room at the Galaxy Gallery of British Beauty, terminating his survey with the portrait of Lady Dedlock over the mantelshelf, in which she is represented on a terrace, with a pedestal upon the terrace, and a vase upon the pedestal, and her shawl upon the vase, and a prodigious piece of fur upon the shawl, and her arm on the prodigious piece of fur, and a bracelet on her arm.
顾比先生假装微笑，为了改变谈话的目的，带着钦佩的目光，无论是真实的还是假装的，环视着银河英国美人画廊的房间，最后以壁炉架上德洛克夫人的肖像结束了他的调查。她被描绘在一个露台上，露台上有一个基座，基座上有一个花瓶，花瓶上有她的披肩，披巾上有一块巨大的毛皮，而她的手臂则放在那块巨大的毛皮上，并且她手臂上戴着一个手镯。

‘That’s very like Lady Dedlock,’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘It’s a speaking likeness.’
“这很像戴德洛克夫人，”古比先生说。 “这是一种说话的相似性。”

‘I wish it was,’ growls Tony, without changing his position. ‘I should have some fashionable conversation, here, then.’
“我希望如此，”托尼咆哮道，但没有改变立场。 “那我应该在这里聊点时髦的话题。”

Finding by this time that his friend is not to be wheedled into a more sociable humour, Mr. Guppy puts about upon the ill-used tack and remonstrates with him.
这时，古比先生发现他的朋友不能被哄骗而变得更友善，于是他采取了不恰当的策略并向他提出抗议。

‘Tony,’ says he, ‘I can make allowances for lowness of spirits, for no man knows what it is when it does come upon a man better than I do, and no man perhaps has a better right to know it than a man who has an unrequited image imprinted on his ‘eart. But there are bounds to these things when an unoffending party is in question, and I will acknowledge to you, Tony, that I don’t think your manner on the present occasion is hospitable or quite gentlemanly.’
“托尼，”他说，“我可以体谅情绪的低落，因为没有人比我更清楚当事情发生在一个人身上时是什么，也许没有人比一个人更有权利知道它。”他的“心”上印着一个单相思的形象。但是，当一个无冒犯的一方受到质疑时，这些事情是有界限的，我要向你承认，托尼，我认为你目前的态度并不热情好客或很有绅士风度。

‘This is strong language, William Guppy,’ returns Mr. Weevle.
“这是很重的语言，威廉·古比，”韦夫勒先生回答道。

‘Sir, it may be,’ retorts Mr. William Guppy, ‘but I feel strongly when I use it.’
“先生，可能是这样，”威廉·古比先生反驳道，“但当我使用它时，我的感觉很强烈。”

Mr. Weevle admits that he has been wrong and begs Mr. William Guppy to think no more about it. Mr. William Guppy, however, having got the advantage, cannot quite release it without a little more injured remonstrance.
韦夫勒先生承认自己错了，并恳求威廉·古比先生不要再想了。然而，威廉·古比先生虽然占据了优势，但在没有受到更多伤害的抗议的情况下，无法完全释放它。

‘No! Dash it, Tony,’ says that gentleman, ‘you really ought to be careful how you wound the feelings of a man who has an unrequited image imprinted on his ‘eart and who is NOT altogether happy in those chords which vibrate to the tenderest emotions. You, Tony, possess in yourself all that is calculated to charm the eye and allure the taste. It is not—happily for you, perhaps, and I may wish that I could say the same—it is not your character to hover around one flower. The ole garden is open to you, and your airy pinions carry you through it. Still, Tony, far be it from me, I am sure, to wound even your feelings without a cause!’
'不！去死吧，托尼，”这位绅士说道，“你真的应该小心，不要伤害一个男人的感情，他的心里已经烙印着单相思的形象，而且在那些振动着最温柔情感的和弦中并不完全快乐。 。托尼，你身上拥有一切吸引眼球和品味的东西。事实并非如此——也许对你来说很幸运，我可能希望我也能这么说——徘徊在一朵花周围不是你的性格。奥莱花园向您开放，您轻快的小齿轮将带您穿过它。不过，托尼，我确信我绝对不会无缘无故地伤害你的感情！

Tony again entreats that the subject may be no longer pursued, saying emphatically, ‘William Guppy, drop it!’ Mr. Guppy acquiesces, with the reply, ‘I never should have taken it up, Tony, of my own accord.’
托尼再次恳求不要再追究这个话题，他强调说：“威廉·古皮，放弃吧！”古皮先生默许了，并回答道：“托尼，我本来就不应该主动提起这个话题。”

‘And now,’ says Tony, stirring the fire, ‘touching this same bundle of letters. Isn’t it an extraordinary thing of Krook to have appointed twelve o’clock to-night to hand ‘em over to me?’
“现在，”托尼一边说，一边搅动火，“触摸同一堆信件。”克鲁克指定今晚十二点把它们交给我，这难道不是一件了不起的事吗？

‘Very. What did he do it for?’
'非常。他这样做是为了什么？

‘What does he do anything for? HE don’t know. Said to-day was his birthday and he’d hand ‘em over to-night at twelve o’clock. He’ll have drunk himself blind by that time. He has been at it all day.’
‘他做这些事是为了什么？他不知道。说今天是他的生日，他会在今晚十二点把它们交给我们。到时候他就已经喝醉了。他已经干了一整天了。

‘He hasn’t forgotten the appointment, I hope?’
“我希望他没有忘记约会吧？”

‘Forgotten? Trust him for that. He never forgets anything. I saw him to-night, about eight—helped him to shut up his shop—and he had got the letters then in his hairy cap. He pulled it off and showed ‘em me. When the shop was closed, he took them out of his cap, hung his cap on the chair-back, and stood turning them over before the fire. I heard him a little while afterwards, through the floor here, humming like the wind, the only song he knows— about Bibo, and old Charon, and Bibo being drunk when he died, or something or other. He has been as quiet since as an old rat asleep in his hole.’
'忘记了？相信他。他永远不会忘记任何事情。今晚八点左右我见到了他——帮助他关掉了他的店——当时他把信放在了他那顶毛茸茸的帽子里。他把它成功了并向我展示。商店关门后，他把帽子从帽子里拿出来，把帽子挂在椅背上，然后站在火边把它们翻过来。过了一会儿，我听到他穿过这里的地板，像风一样哼唱，这是他唯一知道的歌——关于比波和老卡戎，以及比波死时喝醉的歌，或者其他什么。从那以后他就一直安静得像一只在洞里睡觉的老老鼠。

‘And you are to go down at twelve?’
“你十二点钟就下去吗？”

‘At twelve. And as I tell you, when you came it seemed to me a hundred.’
‘十二点。正如我告诉你的，当你来的时候，我觉得已经一百了。

‘Tony,’ says Mr. Guppy after considering a little with his legs crossed, ‘he can’t read yet, can he?’
“托尼，”顾比先生盘着双腿想了想，说道，“他还不会读书，不是吗？”

‘Read! He’ll never read. He can make all the letters separately, and he knows most of them separately when he sees them; he has got on that much, under me; but he can’t put them together. He’s too old to acquire the knack of it now—and too drunk.’
'读！他永远不会读书。他能把所有的字母分开写出来，并且当他看到它们时，他能认出其中的大部分；在我的领导下，他已经取得了如此大的成就；但他无法将它们放在一起。他现在已经太老了，无法掌握这个技巧，而且也喝得太醉了。”

‘Tony,’ says Mr. Guppy, uncrossing and recrossing his legs, ‘how do you suppose he spelt out that name of Hawdon?’
“托尼，”古比先生说，双腿分开又交叉，“你猜他是怎么拼出霍顿这个名字的？”

‘He never spelt it out. You know what a curious power of eye he has and how he has been used to employ himself in copying things by eye alone. He imitated it, evidently from the direction of a letter, and asked me what it meant.’
‘他从来没有说清楚。你知道他的眼睛有多么奇妙的力量，也知道他如何习惯于仅凭眼睛来复制事物。他模仿了这句话，显然是按照一封信的方向模仿的，并问我这是什么意思。

‘Tony,’ says Mr. Guppy, uncrossing and recrossing his legs again, ‘should you say that the original was a man’s writing or a woman’s?’
“托尼，”古比先生说，双腿分开又重新交叉，“你应该说原作是男人的作品还是女人的作品？”

‘A woman’s. Fifty to one a lady’s—slopes a good deal, and the end of the letter ‘n,’ long and hasty.’
‘一个女人的。女士的五十比一——倾斜度很大，字母“n”的结尾又长又仓促。

Mr. Guppy has been biting his thumb-nail during this dialogue, generally changing the thumb when he has changed the cross leg. As he is going to do so again, he happens to look at his coat-sleeve. It takes his attention. He stares at it, aghast.
在这段对话中，孔雀鱼先生一直咬着拇指，通常在改变盘腿时也会改变拇指。当他准备再次这样做时，他碰巧看了一眼自己的衣袖。这需要他的注意力。他惊愕地盯着它。

‘Why, Tony, what on earth is going on in this house to-night? Is there a chimney on fire?’
“为什么，托尼，今晚这房子里到底发生了什么？烟囱着火了吗？

‘Chimney on fire!’
“烟囱着火了！”

‘Ah!’ returns Mr. Guppy. ‘See how the soot’s falling. See here, on my arm! See again, on the table here! Confound the stuff, it won’t blow off—smears like black fat!’
“啊！”古比先生回答道。 “看看烟灰是如何落下的。看这里，在我的手臂上！再看一遍，就在这儿的桌子上！把这些东西搞混了，它吹不掉——像黑色脂肪一样的污迹！”

They look at one another, and Tony goes listening to the door, and a little way upstairs, and a little way downstairs. Comes back and says it’s all right and all quiet, and quotes the remark he lately made to Mr. Snagsby about their cooking chops at the Sol’s Arms.
他们互相看着对方，托尼去听门声，上楼一点，下楼一点。回来后说一切都好，一切都很安静，并引用了他最近对斯纳斯比先生说的关于他们在索尔阿姆斯的烹饪排骨的言论。

‘And it was then,’ resumes Mr. Guppy, still glancing with remarkable aversion at the coat-sleeve, as they pursue their conversation before the fire, leaning on opposite sides of the table, with their heads very near together, ‘that he told you of his having taken the bundle of letters from his lodger’s portmanteau?’
“就在那时，”古皮先生继续说道，他仍然以一种明显厌恶的眼光扫视衣袖，他们在火炉前继续谈话，靠在桌子的两侧，头靠得很近，“他“告诉你他从房客的手提包里拿走了那捆信件吗？”

‘That was the time, sir,’ answers Tony, faintly adjusting his whiskers. ‘Whereupon I wrote a line to my dear boy, the Honourable William Guppy, informing him of the appointment for to-night and advising him not to call before, Boguey being a slyboots.’
“就是时候了，先生。”托尼回答道，微微整理了一下胡须。 “于是我给我亲爱的儿子威廉·古比阁下写了一封信，告诉他今晚的约会，并建议他之前不要打电话来，博吉是个狡猾的家伙。”

The light vivacious tone of fashionable life which is usually assumed by Mr. Weevle sits so ill upon him to-night that he abandons that and his whiskers together, and after looking over his shoulder, appears to yield himself up a prey to the horrors again.
韦弗勒先生通常所表现出的时尚生活的轻松活泼的基调今晚对他来说是如此不舒服，以至于他把胡须和胡须一起扔掉了，回头一看，似乎又让自己成为了恐怖的牺牲品。 。

‘You are to bring the letters to your room to read and compare, and to get yourself into a position to tell him all about them. That’s the arrangement, isn’t it, Tony?’ asks Mr. Guppy, anxiously biting his thumb-nail.
“你要把这些信带到你的房间里阅读和比较，并让自己能够告诉他所有的事情。 “就是这么安排的，不是吗，托尼？”古皮先生焦急地咬着拇指指甲问道。

‘You can’t speak too low. Yes. That’s what he and I agreed.’
‘你说话不能太低声。是的。这是他和我同意的。

‘I tell you what, Tony—‘
“我告诉你，托尼——”

‘You can’t speak too low,’ says Tony once more. Mr. Guppy nods his sagacious head, advances it yet closer, and drops into a whisper.
“你说话不能太低声。”托尼再次说道。孔雀鱼先生用他睿智的头点点头，将头靠得更近，然后低声说道。

‘I tell you what. The first thing to be done is to make another packet like the real one so that if he should ask to see the real one while it’s in my possession, you can show him the dummy.’
'让我告诉你。首先要做的就是再制作一个像真品一样的包，这样如果他要求看我手里的真品，你就可以给他看假品。

‘And suppose he detects the dummy as soon as he sees it, which with his biting screw of an eye is about five hundred times more likely than not,’ suggests Tony.
“假设他一看到假人就发现了它，用他那双尖利的眼睛，这种可能性大约是没有的五百倍，”托尼建议道。

‘Then we’ll face it out. They don’t belong to him, and they never did. You found that, and you placed them in my hands—a legal friend of yours—for security. If he forces us to it, they’ll be producible, won’t they?’
‘那么我们就去面对它吧。它们不属于他，也从来不属于他。你发现了这一点，为了安全起见，你把它们交给了我——你的合法朋友。如果他强迫我们这样做，它们就会被生产出来，不是吗？

‘Ye-es,’ is Mr. Weevle’s reluctant admission.
“是的，是的，”韦弗勒先生不情愿地承认。

‘Why, Tony,’ remonstrates his friend, ‘how you look! You don’t doubt William Guppy? You don’t suspect any harm?’
“为什么，托尼，”他的朋友抗议道，“你看起来怎么样！你不怀疑威廉·古比吗？你不怀疑有任何伤害吗？

‘I don’t suspect anything more than I know, William,’ returns the other gravely.
“威廉，我不会怀疑任何超出我所知的事情。”对方严肃地回答道。

‘And what do you know?’ urges Mr. Guppy, raising his voice a little; but on his friend’s once more warning him, ‘I tell you, you can’t speak too low,’ he repeats his question without any sound at all, forming with his lips only the words, ‘What do you know?’
“你知道什么？”古皮先生稍微提高了声音问道。但当他的朋友再次警告他“我告诉你，你不能说得太低”时，他毫无声音地重复了他的问题，只用嘴唇形成了这样的字：“你知道什么？”

‘I know three things. First, I know that here we are whispering in secrecy, a pair of conspirators.’
‘我知道三件事。首先，我知道我们在这里秘密窃窃私语，是一对同谋者。

‘Well!’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘And we had better be that than a pair of noodles, which we should be if we were doing anything else, for it’s the only way of doing what we want to do. Secondly?’
“好吧！”古比先生说。 “我们最好是这样，而不是一根面条，如果我们做其他任何事情，我们就应该这样做，因为这是做我们想做的事情的唯一方式。第二？'

‘Secondly, it’s not made out to me how it’s likely to be profitable, after all.’
“其次，我根本不知道它如何盈利。”

Mr. Guppy casts up his eyes at the portrait of Lady Dedlock over the mantelshelf and replies, ‘Tony, you are asked to leave that to the honour of your friend. Besides its being calculated to serve that friend in those chords of the human mind which—which need not be called into agonizing vibration on the present occasion—your friend is no fool. What’s that?’
古比先生抬头看着壁炉架上戴德洛克夫人的肖像，回答道：“托尼，请你把它留给你朋友的荣誉。”除了它的目的是为了在人类心灵的那些弦上服务那个朋友之外，你的朋友并不傻，而在目前的情况下，这不需要被召唤到痛苦的振动中。那是什么？'

‘It’s eleven o’clock striking by the bell of Saint Paul’s. Listen and you’ll hear all the bells in the city jangling.’
“圣保罗大教堂的钟声敲响了，已经十一点了。听着，你会听到城市里所有的钟声都在叮当作响。

Both sit silent, listening to the metal voices, near and distant, resounding from towers of various heights, in tones more various than their situations. When these at length cease, all seems more mysterious and quiet than before. One disagreeable result of whispering is that it seems to evoke an atmosphere of silence, haunted by the ghosts of sound—strange cracks and tickings, the rustling of garments that have no substance in them, and the tread of dreadful feet that would leave no mark on the sea-sand or the winter snow. So sensitive the two friends happen to be that the air is full of these phantoms, and the two look over their shoulders by one consent to see that the door is shut.
两人都静静地坐着，聆听金属的声音，或近或远，从不同高度的塔楼中回响，其音调比他们所处的情况更加不同。当这些最终停止时，一切似乎都比以前更加神秘和安静。窃窃私语的一个令人不快的结果是，它似乎会唤起一种寂静的气氛，被声音的幽灵所困扰——奇怪的裂纹和滴答声，毫无实质内容的衣服的沙沙声，以及不会留下任何痕迹的可怕脚步声。在海沙或冬雪上。这两个朋友非常敏感，空气中充满了这些幻影，两人不约而同地回头一看，发现门是关着的。

‘Yes, Tony?’ says Mr. Guppy, drawing nearer to the fire and biting his unsteady thumb-nail. ‘You were going to say, thirdly?’
“是吗，托尼？”古皮先生一边说，一边靠近火堆，咬着摇摇晃晃的拇指指甲。 “你想说的是，第三？”

‘It’s far from a pleasant thing to be plotting about a dead man in the room where he died, especially when you happen to live in it.’
“在一个死去的房间里策划一个死者的事件可不是一件令人愉快的事情，尤其是当你碰巧住在里面的时候。”

‘But we are plotting nothing against him, Tony.’
“但我们并没有图谋反对他，托尼。”

‘May be not, still I don’t like it. Live here by yourself and see how YOU like it.’
“也许不是，但我还是不喜欢它。你自己住在这里，看看你是否喜欢它。

‘As to dead men, Tony,’ proceeds Mr. Guppy, evading this proposal, ‘there have been dead men in most rooms.’
“至于死人，托尼，”古皮先生继续说道，回避了这个提议，“大多数房间里都有死人。”

‘I know there have, but in most rooms you let them alone, and—and they let you alone,’ Tony answers.
“我知道有，但在大多数房间里，你不会打扰他们，而且——他们也不会打扰你，”托尼回答道。

The two look at each other again. Mr. Guppy makes a hurried remark to the effect that they may be doing the deceased a service, that he hopes so. There is an oppressive blank until Mr. Weevle, by stirring the fire suddenly, makes Mr. Guppy start as if his heart had been stirred instead.
两人再次对视一眼。古比先生匆匆说了一句，大意是他们可能正在为死者提供服务，他希望如此。一阵压抑的空白，直到韦夫勒先生突然搅动了火，让孔雀鱼先生吃了一惊，仿佛他的心被搅动了。

‘Fah! Here’s more of this hateful soot hanging about,’ says he. ‘Let us open the window a bit and get a mouthful of air. It’s too close.’
‘呸！这里还有更多可恶的烟灰，”他说。 “让我们把窗户打开一点，呼吸一口空气。太近了。

He raises the sash, and they both rest on the window-sill, half in and half out of the room. The neighbouring houses are too near to admit of their seeing any sky without craning their necks and looking up, but lights in frowsy windows here and there, and the rolling of distant carriages, and the new expression that there is of the stir of men, they find to be comfortable. Mr. Guppy, noiselessly tapping on the window-sill, resumes his whisperirig in quite a light-comedy tone.
他拉起窗带，他们俩都靠在窗台上，一半在房间里，一半在房间外。邻近的房屋离得太近，如果不伸长脖子抬头仰望，他们就无法看到天空，但到处都是令人讨厌的窗户里的灯光，远处马车的滚动，以及人们骚动的新表情，他们觉得很舒服。孔雀先生无声地敲着窗台，以一种轻松喜剧的语气继续低语。

‘By the by, Tony, don’t forget old Smallweed,’ meaning the younger of that name. ‘I have not let him into this, you know. That grandfather of his is too keen by half. It runs in the family.’
“顺便说一句，托尼，别忘了老斯莫威德”，意思是这个名字中较年轻的一个。 “你知道，我没有让他参与其中。他那个爷爷太热心了一半。它在家庭中传承。

‘I remember,’ says Tony. ‘I am up to all that.’
“我记得，”托尼说。 “这一切我都能做到。”

‘And as to Krook,’ resumes Mr. Guppy. ‘Now, do you suppose he really has got hold of any other papers of importance, as he has boasted to you, since you have been such allies?’
“至于克鲁克，”古比先生继续说道。 “现在，既然你们一直是这样的盟友，你认为他真的像他向你吹嘘的那样，掌握了任何其他重要的文件吗？”

Tony shakes his head. ‘I don’t know. Can’t Imagine. If we get through this business without rousing his suspicions, I shall be better informed, no doubt. How can I know without seeing them, when he don’t know himself? He is always spelling out words from them, and chalking them over the table and the shop-wall, and asking what this is and what that is; but his whole stock from beginning to end may easily be the waste-paper he bought it as, for anything I can say. It’s a monomania with him to think he is possessed of documents. He has been going to learn to read them this last quarter of a century, I should judge, from what he tells me.’
托尼摇摇头。 '我不知道。无法想象。如果我们能顺利完成这件事而不引起他的怀疑，毫无疑问我会得到更好的消息。当他不认识他自己时，如果没有看到他们，我怎么能知道呢？他总是拼出其中的单词，然后用粉笔把它们写在桌子上和商店墙上，并询问这是什么、那是什么；但无论我怎么说，他的整个股票从头到尾很可能都是他买来的废纸。他认为自己拥有文件，这是一种偏执。从他告诉我的内容来看，我应该判断，在过去的四分之一个世纪里，他一直在学习阅读它们。

‘How did he first come by that idea, though? That’s the question,’ Mr. Guppy suggests with one eye shut, after a little forensic meditation. ‘He may have found papers in something he bought, where papers were not supposed to be, and may have got it into his shrewd head from the manner and place of their concealment that they are worth something.’
“那么他最初是怎么想到这个想法的呢？这就是问题所在。”经过一番法医沉思后，古比先生闭上一只眼睛说道。 “他可能在他买的东西中发现了纸张，而这些纸张本来不应该存在，并且他精明的头脑可能从它们隐藏的方式和地点中得知它们是有价值的。”

‘Or he may have been taken in, in some pretended bargain. Or he may have been muddled altogether by long staring at whatever he HAS got, and by drink, and by hanging about the Lord Chancellor’s Court and hearing of documents for ever,’ returns Mr. Weevle.
“或者他可能是在某种假装的讨价还价中被骗了。”或者，他可能已经完全糊涂了，因为长时间盯着他所拥有的一切，喝了酒，在大法官法庭上闲逛，永远听着文件，”韦夫勒先生回答道。

Mr. Guppy sitting on the window-sill, nodding his head and balancing all these possibilities in his mind, continues thoughtfully to tap it, and clasp it, and measure it with his hand, until he hastily draws his hand away.
孔雀先生坐在窗台上，点着头，在心里权衡着所有这些可能性，若有所思地继续敲着、握着、用手量着，直到匆忙把手抽开。

‘What, in the devil’s name,’ he says, ‘is this! Look at my fingers!’
“看在魔鬼的份上，”他说道，“这是什么！看看我的手指！

A thick, yellow liquor defiles them, which is offensive to the touch and sight and more offensive to the smell. A stagnant, sickening oil with some natural repulsion in it that makes them both shudder.
浓稠的黄色液体玷污了它们，触感和视觉都令人厌恶，气味更令人厌恶。一种停滞的、令人作呕的油，里面有一些自然的排斥力，让他们都颤抖起来。

‘What have you been doing here? What have you been pouring out of window?’
‘你来这里做什么？你从窗户里倒了什么？

‘I pouring out of window! Nothing, I swear! Never, since I have been here!’ cries the lodger.
‘我从窗户倾泻而出！没什么，我发誓！ “从来没有，自从我来过这里之后！”房客喊道。

And yet look here—and look here! When he brings the candle here, from the corner of the window-sill, it slowly drips and creeps away down the bricks, here lies in a little thick nauseous pool.
但看看这里——看看这里！当他把蜡烛从窗台的一角搬到这里时，它慢慢地滴下来，顺着砖块爬走，这里躺在一个又厚又恶心的水池里。

‘This is a horrible house,’ says Mr. Guppy, shutting down the window. ‘Give me some water or I shall cut my hand off.’
“这是一座可怕的房子，”古皮先生关上窗户说道。 “给我点水，不然我就砍掉我的手。”

He so washes, and rubs, and scrubs, and smells, and washes, that he has not long restored himself with a glass of brandy and stood silently before the fire when Saint Paul’s bell strikes twelve and all those other bells strike twelve from their towers of various heights in the dark air, and in their many tones. When all is quiet again, the lodger says, ‘It’s the appointed time at last. Shall I go?’
他如此洗、擦、擦、闻、洗，以至于当圣保罗的钟声敲响十二点，而所有其他钟声从塔楼上敲响十二点时，他很快就喝了一杯白兰地恢复了精神，静静地站在火前。在黑暗的空气中，它们的高度各异，音调各异。当一切再次安静下来时，房客说：“终于到了约定的时间了。”我可以去吗？

Mr. Guppy nods and gives him a ‘lucky touch’ on the back, but not with the washed hand, though it is his right hand.
孔雀鱼先生点点头，并在他的背上“幸运地碰了一下”，但不是用洗过的手，尽管那是他的右手。

He goes downstairs, and Mr. Guppy tries to compose himself before the fire for waiting a long time. But in no more than a minute or two the stairs creak and Tony comes swiftly back.
他下了楼，孔雀先生在炉火前等待了很长时间，试图让自己平静下来。但不到一两分钟，楼梯就吱吱作响，托尼迅速回来了。

‘Have you got them?’
“你拿到了吗？”

‘Got them! No. The old man’s not there.’
'抓到他们了！不，老人不在。”

He has been so horribly frightened in the short interval that his terror seizes the other, who makes a rush at him and asks loudly, ‘What’s the matter?’
在这短暂的时间里，他已经被吓得够呛，以至于他的恐惧抓住了另一个人，后者冲向他，大声问道：“怎么了？”

‘I couldn’t make him hear, and I softly opened the door and looked in. And the burning smell is there—and the soot is there, and the oil is there—and he is not there!’ Tony ends this with a groan.
“我无法让他听到，我轻轻地打开门往里看。那里有烧焦的气味——烟灰在那里，油在那里——而他却不在那儿！”托尼用一句结束语结束了这一切。呻吟。

Mr. Guppy takes the light. They go down, more dead than alive, and holding one another, push open the door of the back shop. The cat has retreated close to it and stands snarling, not at them, at something on the ground before the fire. There is a very little fire left in the grate, but there is a smouldering, suffocating vapour in the room and a dark, greasy coating on the walls and ceiling. The chairs and table, and the bottle so rarely absent from the table, all stand as usual. On one chair-back hang the old man’s hairy cap and coat.
孔雀鱼先生接过灯。他们下去了，死了也不活了，互相拥抱着，推开了后店的门。那只猫退到离它很近的地方，站在火边，不是对着他们，而是对着地上的某个东西咆哮。炉排里只剩下很少的火了，但房间里有闷烧的、令人窒息的蒸汽，墙壁和天花板上有一层深色的油腻的涂层。椅子和桌子，以及桌子上很少缺席的瓶子，都像往常一样站立着。一张椅背上挂着老人毛茸茸的帽子和外套。

‘Look!’ whispers the lodger, pointing his friend’s attention to these objects with a trembling finger. ‘I told you so. When I saw him last, he took his cap off, took out the little bundle of old letters, hung his cap on the back of the chair—his coat was there already, for he had pulled that off before he went to put the shutters up—and I left him turning the letters over in his hand, standing just where that crumbled black thing is upon the floor.’
“看！”房客低声说道，用颤抖的手指将他朋友的注意力引向这些物品。 '我已经告诉过你了。当我最后一次见到他时，他脱下了帽子，拿出那一小捆旧信件，把帽子挂在椅背上——他的外套已经在那里了，因为他在去关百叶窗之前就把它脱下来了。起来——我让他把信翻过来，站在地板上那个黑色碎块所在的地方。

Is he hanging somewhere? They look up. No.
他挂在什么地方吗？他们抬起头来。不。

‘See!’ whispers Tony. ‘At the foot of the same chair there lies a dirty bit of thin red cord that they tie up pens with. That went round the letters. He undid it slowly, leering and laughing at me, before he began to turn them over, and threw it there. I saw it fall.’
“看！”托尼低声说道。 “在同一张椅子的脚下，有一条肮脏的细红绳，他们用它来绑钢笔。这围绕着字母。他慢慢地解开了它，对我斜视着，笑着，然后他开始把它们翻过来，扔在那里。我看到它掉下来了。

‘What’s the matter with the cat?’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘Look at her!’
“那只猫怎么了？”孔雀先生说。 '看着她！'

‘Mad, I think. And no wonder in this evil place.’
“我想，是疯了。”难怪在这个邪恶的地方。

They advance slowly, looking at all these things. The cat remains where they found her, still snarling at the something on the ground before the fire and between the two chairs. What is it? Hold up the light.
他们缓慢地前进，看着这一切。那只猫仍然留在他们发现她的地方，仍然对着火前和两把椅子之间的地上的东西咆哮。它是什么？举起灯。

Here is a small burnt patch of flooring; here is the tinder from a little bundle of burnt paper, but not so light as usual, seeming to be steeped in something; and here is—is it the cinder of a small charred and broken log of wood sprinkled with white ashes, or is it coal? Oh, horror, he IS here! And this from which we run away, striking out the light and overturning one another into the street, is all that represents him.
这是一小块烧焦的地板；这是一小捆烧焦的纸制成的火绒，但不像平时那么轻，似乎浸透了某种东西；这是——这是一根烧焦的碎木头的灰烬，上面撒满了白色的灰烬，还是煤？哦，恐怖，他在这里！而我们逃离、熄灭灯光、互相推倒在街上的这一点，就是代表他的一切。

Help, help, help! Come into this house for heaven’s sake! Plenty will come in, but none can help. The Lord Chancellor of that court, true to his title in his last act, has died the death of all lord chancellors in all courts and of all authorities in all places under all names soever, where false pretences are made, and where injustice is done. Call the death by any name your Highness will, attribute it to whom you will, or say it might have been prevented how you will, it is the same death eternally—inborn, inbred, engendered in the corrupted humours of the vicious body itself, and that only—spontaneous combustion, and none other of all the deaths that can be died.
救命，救命，救命！看在上帝的份上，进入这所房子吧！很多人会进来，但没有人能提供帮助。该法院的大法官，在他最后的行动中忠实于他的头衔，已经与所有法院的所有大法官以及所有地方的所有当局一样死亡，无论在哪里，无论在哪里，在任何地方，都有虚假借口，也有不公正的行为。 。殿下可以用任何名字来称呼这种死亡，无论你想把它归属于谁，或者说它本可以按照你的意愿被阻止，这都是永恒的死亡——天生的，近亲繁殖的，在邪恶身体本身腐败的体液中产生的，唯一的死亡就是自燃，除此之外没有其他死亡方式。

CHAPTER XXXIII
第三十三章


Interlopers
闯入者

Now do those two gentlemen not very neat about the cuffs and buttons who attended the last coroner’s inquest at the Sol’s Arms reappear in the precincts with surprising swiftness (being, in fact, breathlessly fetched by the active and intelligent beadle), and institute perquisitions through the court, and dive into the Sol’s parlour, and write with ravenous little pens on tissue-paper. Now do they note down, in the watches of the night, how the neighbourhood of Chancery Lane was yesterday, at about midnight, thrown into a state of the most intense agitation and excitement by the following alarming and horrible discovery. Now do they set forth how it will doubtless be remembered that some time back a painful sensation was created in the public mind by a case of mysterious death from opium occurring in the first floor of the house occupied as a rag, bottle, and general marine store shop, by an eccentric individual of intemperate habits, far advanced in life, named Krook; and how, by a remarkable coincidence, Krook was examined at the inquest, which it may be recollected was held on that occasion at the Sol’s Arms, a well-conducted tavern immediately adjoining the premises in question on the west side and licensed to a highly respectable landlord, Mr. James George Bogsby. Now do they show (in as many words as possible) how during some hours of yesterday evening a very peculiar smell was observed by the inhabitants of the court, in which the tragical occurrence which forms the subject of that present account transpired; and which odour was at one time so powerful that Mr. Swills, a comic vocalist professionally engaged by Mr. J. G. Bogsby, has himself stated to our reporter that he mentioned to Miss M. Melvilleson, a lady of some pretensions to musical ability, likewise engaged by Mr. J. G. Bogsby to sing at a series of concerts called Harmonic Assemblies, or Meetings, which it would appear are held at the Sol’s Arms under Mr. Bogsby’s direction pursuant to the Act of George the Second, that he (Mr. Swills) found his voice seriously affected by the impure state of the atmosphere, his jocose expression at the time being that he was like an empty post-office, for he hadn’t a single note in him. How this account of Mr. Swills is entirely corroborated by two intelligent married females residing in the same court and known respectively by the names of Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Perkins, both of whom observed the foetid effluvia and regarded them as being emitted from the premises in the occupation of Krook, the unfortunate deceased. All this and a great deal more the two gentlemen who have formed an amicable partnership in the melancholy catastrophe write down on the spot; and the boy population of the court (out of bed in a moment) swarm up the shutters of the Sol’s Arms parlour, to behold the tops of their heads while they are about it.
现在，参加索尔之臂最后一次验尸官审讯的那两位袖口和纽扣不太整洁的先生，以惊人的速度重新出现在辖区（事实上，被活跃而聪明的执事气喘吁吁地带走了），并通过走进法庭，潜入索尔的客厅，用贪婪的小笔在薄纸上写字。现在，他们在夜深人静时记下了昨天午夜时分，大法官巷一带是如何因以下令人震惊和可怕的发现而陷入最强烈的躁动和兴奋状态的。现在，他们是否阐述了人们将如何毫无疑问地记住，不久前，在一间被抹布、瓶子和海军陆战队占领的房子的一楼发生一起因鸦片神秘死亡的案件，在公众心目中引起了痛苦的感觉店里的店主是一个性格古怪、生活不节制、生活十分先进的人，名叫克鲁克。巧合的是，克鲁克是如何在审讯中接受审问的，人们可能记得审讯是在索尔阿姆斯酒店举行的，这是一家管理良好的酒馆，紧邻相关房屋的西侧，并获得了高级官员的许可。尊敬的房东，詹姆斯·乔治·博格斯比先生。现在，他们（用尽可能多的文字）表明，在昨天晚上的几个小时内，法庭上的居民如何观察到一种非常奇怪的气味，而正是在这种气味中发生了构成当前叙述主题的悲剧事件；这种气味一度如此强烈，以至于 J·G·博格斯比先生专业聘用的一位喜剧歌手斯威尔斯先生亲自向我们的记者表示，他曾向 M 小姐提到过。 梅尔维尔森（Melvilleson）是一位自命不凡的音乐才能女士，她同样受 J. G. Bogsby 先生的邀请，在一系列名为 Harmonic Assemblies 或 Meetings 的音乐会上演唱，这些音乐会似乎是在博格斯比先生的指导下在 Sol's Arms 举行的。乔治二世的行为，他（斯威尔斯先生）发现自己的声音受到了不纯净的气氛的严重影响，他当时的戏谑表情是他就像一个空荡荡的邮局，因为他没有一个请注意他。斯威尔斯先生的这种说法完全得到了居住在同一宫廷中的两位聪明的已婚女性的完全证实，她们的名字分别是派珀夫人和珀金斯夫人，她们都观察到了恶臭，并认为它们是从房间里散发出来的。不幸死者克鲁克被占领的房屋。所有这一切以及更多的事情，两位在这场悲伤的灾难中结成友好伙伴关系的先生当场写下了；法庭上的男孩们（一会儿就起床了）涌上索尔之臂客厅的百叶窗，在他们周围的时候看看他们的头顶。

The whole court, adult as well as boy, is sleepless for that night, and can do nothing but wrap up its many heads, and talk of the illfated house, and look at it. Miss Flite has been bravely rescued from her chamber, as if it were in flames, and accommodated with a bed at the Sol’s Arms. The Sol neither turns off its gas nor shuts its door all night, for any kind of public excitement makes good for the Sol and causes the court to stand in need of comfort. The house has not done so much in the stomachic article of cloves or in brandy-and-water warm since the inquest. The moment the pot-boy heard what had happened, he rolled up his shirt-sleeves tight to his shoulders and said, ‘There’ll be a run upon us!’ In the first outcry, young Piper dashed off for the fire-engines and returned in triumph at a jolting gallop perched up aloft on the Phoenix and holding on to that fabulous creature with all his might in the midst of helmets and torches. One helmet remains behind after careful investigation of all chinks and crannies and slowly paces up and down before the house in company with one of the two policemen who have likewise been left in charge thereof. To this trio everybody in the court possessed of sixpence has an insatiate desire to exhibit hospitality in a liquid form.
那天晚上，整个宫廷里的人，无论是大人还是小孩，都彻夜难眠，除了把脑袋包起来，谈论那座倒霉的房子，看看它之外，什么也做不了。弗利特小姐被勇敢地从她的房间里救了出来，就好像房间着火一样，并在索尔之臂酒店安置了一张床。索尔既不会关掉煤气，也不会整夜关门，因为任何形式的公众兴奋都会对索尔有利，并导致法庭需要安慰。自调查以来，这所房子还没有在丁香和白兰地加水的温水里做过那么多的事。伙计男孩听到发生的事情后，立即把衬衫袖子卷到肩膀上，说道：“有人跑过来追我们了！”在第一声叫喊中，年轻的派珀冲向消防车。他在凤凰号上高高地飞奔，凯旋而归，在头盔和火把中用尽全力抓住了这个神话般的生物。在仔细检查所有缝隙和缝隙后，留下了一顶头盔，并在两名同样负责此事的警察之一的陪伴下，在房子前缓慢地来回踱步。对于这三人来说，法庭上每个拥有六便士的人都渴望以流动的形式表现出热情好客。

Mr. Weevle and his friend Mr. Guppy are within the bar at the Sol and are worth anything to the Sol that the bar contains if they will only stay there. ‘This is not a time, says Mr. Bogsby, ‘to haggle about money,’ though he looks something sharply after it, over the counter; ‘give your orders, you two gentlemen, and you’re welcome to whatever you put a name to.’
Weevle 先生和他的朋友 Guppy 先生就在 Sol 的酒吧内，只要他们愿意呆在那里，他们对酒吧里的 Sol 来说都是有价值的。博格斯比先生说，“现在不是‘讨价还价’的时候”，尽管他在柜台后面敏锐地寻找着一些东西； “两位先生，下达命令，无论您指定什么名字，我们都欢迎您。”

Thus entreated, the two gentlemen (Mr. Weevle especially) put names to so many things that in course of time they find it difficult to put a name to anything quite distinctly, though they still relate to all new-comers some version of the night they have had of it, and of what they said, and what they thought, and what they saw. Meanwhile, one or other of the policemen often flits about the door, and pushing it open a little way at the full length of his arm, looks in from outer gloom. Not that he has any suspicions, but that he may as well know what they are up to in there.
经过如此恳求，两位先生（尤其是韦夫勒先生）给很多东西起了名字，随着时间的推移，他们发现很难给任何东西明确地命名，尽管他们仍然与所有新来者有关夜晚的某些版本他们已经经历过这一切，经历过他们所说的、他们所想的、以及他们所看到的。与此同时，一名或另一名警察经常在门上走来走去，用他的手臂将门推开一点，从外面的阴暗中向里看。并不是说他有任何怀疑，而是他或许知道他们在那里做什么。

Thus night pursues its leaden course, finding the court still out of bed through the unwonted hours, still treating and being treated, still conducting itself similarly to a court that has had a little money left it unexpectedly. Thus night at length with slow-retreating steps departs, and the lamp-lighter going his rounds, like an executioner to a despotic king, strikes off the little heads of fire that have aspired to lessen the darkness. Thus the day cometh, whether or no.
就这样，夜晚继续其沉闷的过程，发现法庭在不寻常的时间里仍然没有起床，仍然在治疗和接受治疗，仍然像一个意外地留下了一点钱的法庭一样行事。就这样，夜色慢慢地退去，点灯人四处走动，就像刽子手面对专制的国王，击落那些渴望减轻黑暗的小火头。因此，无论是否，这一天都会到来。

And the day may discern, even with its dim London eye, that the court has been up all night. Over and above the faces that have fallen drowsily on tables and the heels that lie prone on hard floors instead of beds, the brick and mortar physiognomy of the very court itself looks worn and jaded. And now the neighbourhood, waking up and beginning to hear of what has happened, comes streaming in, half dressed, to ask questions; and the two policemen and the helmet (who are far less impressible externally than the court) have enough to do to keep the door.
即使伦敦的眼睛昏暗，白天也能看出法庭已经彻夜未眠。除了昏昏欲睡地倒在桌子上的脸和趴在硬地板上而不是床上的脚后跟之外，法庭本身的砖瓦面貌看起来破旧而疲惫。现在，邻居们都醒了，开始听说发生了什么事，纷纷涌来，衣着不整，询问问题。两名警察和头盔（他们在外表上远不如法庭那么令人印象深刻）足以守住门。

‘Good gracious, gentlemen!’ says Mr. Snagsby, coming up. ‘What’s this I hear!’
“天哪，先生们！”斯纳斯比先生走过来说道。 “我听到这是什么！”

‘Why, it’s true,’ returns one of the policemen. ‘That’s what it is. Now move on here, come!’
“哦，这是真的，”一名警察回答道。 ‘就是这样。现在继续前进，来吧！

‘Why, good gracious, gentlemen,’ says Mr. Snagsby, somewhat promptly backed away, ‘I was at this door last night betwixt ten and eleven o’clock in conversation with the young man who lodges here.’
“哎呀，天哪，先生们，”斯纳斯比先生说着，立刻后退了一步，“昨晚十点到十一点之间，我在这扇门前与住在这里的年轻人谈话。”

‘Indeed?’ returns the policeman. ‘You will find the young man next door then. Now move on here, some of you,’
“真的吗？”警察回答道。 ‘那么你就会找到隔壁的那个年轻人。现在继续前进，你们中的一些人，”

‘Not hurt, I hope?’ says Mr. Snagsby.
“我希望没有受伤吧？”斯纳斯比先生说。

‘Hurt? No. What’s to hurt him!’
'伤害？不，有什么可以伤害他！

Mr. Snagsby, wholly unable to answer this or any question in his troubled mind, repairs to the Sol’s Arms and finds Mr. Weevle languishing over tea and toast with a considerable expression on him of exhausted excitement and exhausted tobacco-smoke.
斯纳格斯比先生完全无法回答这个问题，也无法在他混乱的头脑中回答任何问题，他回到索尔的手臂，发现韦夫勒先生正在喝着茶和烤面包，神情疲惫不堪，脸上带着疲惫的兴奋和疲惫的烟草烟雾。

‘And Mr. Guppy likewise!’ quoth Mr. Snagsby. ‘Dear, dear, dear! What a fate there seems in all this! And my lit—‘
“古比先生也是如此！”斯纳斯比先生说道。 ‘亲爱的，亲爱的，亲爱的！这一切似乎都是一种命运啊！还有我的灯——”

Mr. Snagsby’s power of speech deserts him in the formation of the words ‘my little woman.’ For to see that injured female walk into the Sol’s Arms at that hour of the morning and stand before the beer-engine, with her eyes fixed upon him like an accusing spirit, strikes him dumb.
斯纳斯比先生的语言能力在形成“我的小女人”这个词时就被抛弃了。因为看到那个受伤的女人在早上的那个时候走进索尔的怀抱，站在啤酒引擎前，眼睛盯着他就像一个控诉的精灵，让他哑口无言。

‘My dear,’ says Mr. Snagsby when his tongue is loosened, ‘will you take anything? A little—not to put too fine a point upon it—drop of shrub?’
“亲爱的，”斯纳斯比先生松开舌头说道，“你想要什么吗？一点点——不是说太细——一滴灌木？

‘No,’ says Mrs. Snagsby.
“不，”斯纳斯比夫人说。

‘My love, you know these two gentlemen?’
“亲爱的，你认识这两位先生吗？”

‘Yes!’ says Mrs. Snagsby, and in a rigid manner acknowledges their presence, still fixing Mr. Snagsby with her eye.
“是的！”斯纳斯比夫人说，并以一种僵硬的方式承认他们的存在，眼睛仍然盯着斯纳斯比先生。

The devoted Mr. Snagsby cannot bear this treatment. He takes Mrs. Snagsby by the hand and leads her aside to an adjacent cask.
忠诚的斯纳斯比先生无法忍受这种待遇。他拉着斯纳斯比夫人的手，把她带到旁边的一个木桶前。

‘My little woman, why do you look at me in that way? Pray don’t do it.’
“我的小女人，你为什么用这样的眼神看着我？祈祷不要这样做。

‘I can’t help my looks,’ says Mrs. Snagsby, ‘and if I could I wouldn’t.’
“我无法控制自己的外表，”斯纳斯比夫人说，“如果可以的话，我不会这么做。”

Mr. Snagsby, with his cough of meekness, rejoins, ‘Wouldn’t you really, my dear?’ and meditates. Then coughs his cough of trouble and says, ‘This is a dreadful mystery, my love!’ still fearfully disconcerted by Mrs. Snagsby’s eye.
斯纳斯比先生温顺地咳嗽了一声，问道：“亲爱的，你真的不愿意吗？”然后沉思起来。然后他咳嗽了一声，说道：“这是一个可怕的谜团，我的爱人！”仍然被斯纳斯比夫人的眼神吓得不知所措。

‘It IS,’ returns Mrs. Snagsby, shaking her head, ‘a dreadful mystery.’
“这确实是一个可怕的谜，”斯纳斯比夫人摇着头回答道。

‘My little woman,’ urges Mr. Snagsby in a piteous manner, ‘don’t for goodness’ sake speak to me with that bitter expression and look at me in that searching way! I beg and entreat of you not to do it. Good Lord, you don’t suppose that I would go spontaneously combusting any person, my dear?’
“我的小女人，”斯纳斯比先生可怜兮兮地劝道，“老天爷，别用那种苦涩的表情跟我说话，用那种探究的眼神看着我！”我恳求并恳求你不要这样做。天哪，你不认为我会自燃吗，亲爱的？

‘I can’t say,’ returns Mrs. Snagsby.
“我不能说，”斯纳斯比夫人回答道。

On a hasty review of his unfortunate position, Mr. Snagsby ‘can’t say’ either. He is not prepared positively to deny that he may have had something to do with it. He has had something—he don’t know what—to do with so much in this connexion that is mysterious that it is possible he may even be implicated, without knowing it, in the present transaction. He faintly wipes his forehead with his handkerchief and gasps.
斯纳斯比先生仓促地回顾了自己不幸的处境，他也“不能说”。他并不准备积极否认他可能与这件事有关。他在这方面做了很多事情——他不知道是什么——很神秘，以至于他甚至可能在不知情的情况下卷入了目前的交易。他用手帕轻轻地擦了擦额头，喘息着。

‘My life,’ says the unhappy stationer, ‘would you have any objections to mention why, being in general so delicately circumspect in your conduct, you come into a wine-vaults before breakfast?’
“我的生活，”那位不高兴的文具店员说道，“你会反对说一下为什么你的行为通常如此谨慎谨慎，早餐前进入了一个酒窖吗？”

‘Why do YOU come here?’ inquires Mrs. Snagsby.
“你为什么来这里？”斯纳斯比夫人问道。

‘My dear, merely to know the rights of the fatal accident which has happened to the venerable party who has been—combusted.’ Mr. Snagsby has made a pause to suppress a groan. ‘I should then have related them to you, my love, over your French roll.’
“亲爱的，只是想知道发生在受人尊敬的一方——被烧毁的致命事故上的权利。”斯纳格斯比先生停顿了一下，压制住一声呻吟。 “我应该把它们告诉你，我的爱人，而不是你的法式卷。”

‘I dare say you would! You relate everything to me, Mr. Snagsby.’
‘我敢说你会的！你把一切都和我联系起来了，斯纳斯比先生。

‘Every—my lit—‘
“每一个——我的点燃——”

‘I should be glad,’ says Mrs. Snagsby after contemplating his increased confusion with a severe and sinister smile, ‘if you would come home with me; I think you may be safer there, Mr. Snagsby, than anywhere else.’
“我会很高兴，”斯纳斯比太太在考虑了他日益混乱的情况后说道，脸上带着严肃而阴险的微笑，“如果你能和我一起回家；我会很高兴的。”我认为斯纳格斯比先生，你在那里可能比其他地方更安全。

‘My love, I don’t know but what I may be, I am sure. I am ready to go.’
“我的爱人，我不知道，但我确信我可能是什么。我准备走了。'

Mr. Snagsby casts his eye forlornly round the bar, gives Messrs. Weevle and Guppy good morning, assures them of the satisfaction with which he sees them uninjured, and accompanies Mrs. Snagsby from the Sol’s Arms. Before night his doubt whether he may not be responsible for some inconceivable part in the catastrophe which is the talk of the whole neighbourhood is almost resolved into certainty by Mrs. Snagsby’s pertinacity in that fixed gaze. His mental sufferings are so great that he entertains wandering ideas of delivering himself up to justice and requiring to be cleared if innocent and punished with the utmost rigour of the law if guilty.
斯纳斯比先生悲凉地环顾吧台，向韦弗勒先生和孔雀鱼先生道早安，并向他们保证看到他们没有受伤他感到很满意，然后从索尔之臂陪伴斯纳斯比夫人。到了晚上，他怀疑自己是否对这场全街坊都议论的这场灾难负有某种不可想象的责任，而斯纳斯比夫人那坚定的目光几乎让他确信无疑。他的精神痛苦如此之大，以至于他产生了一些飘忽不定的想法，要把自己送上法庭，如果无罪，就要求无罪释放；如果有罪，就要求受到最严厉的法律惩罚。

Mr. Weevle and Mr. Guppy, having taken their breakfast, step into Lincoln’s Inn to take a little walk about the square and clear as many of the dark cobwebs out of their brains as a little walk may.
威弗尔先生和孔雀鱼先生吃完早餐后，走进林肯旅馆，在广场上散步，尽可能地清除大脑中的黑色蜘蛛网。

‘There can be no more favourable time than the present, Tony,’ says Mr. Guppy after they have broodingly made out the four sides of the square, ‘for a word or two between us upon a point on which we must, with very little delay, come to an understanding.’
“没有比现在更有利的时机了，托尼，”在他们沉思地辨认出正方形的四个边后，古皮先生说道，“我们之间就一个问题说一两句话，我们必须非常认真地讨论这一点。”稍事拖延，达成谅解。

‘Now, I tell you what, William G.!’ returns the other, eyeing his companion with a bloodshot eye. ‘If it’s a point of conspiracy, you needn’t take the trouble to mention it. I have had enough of that, and I ain’t going to have any more. We shall have YOU taking fire next or blowing up with a bang.’
“现在，我告诉你，威廉·G！”另一个人回答道，用布满血丝的眼睛看着他的同伴。 “如果这是一个阴谋，你就不必费心提及。我已经受够了，我不会再受了。接下来我们会让你着火或者爆炸。

This supposititious phenomenon is so very disagreeable to Mr. Guppy that his voice quakes as he says in a moral way, ‘Tony, I should have thought that what we went through last night would have been a lesson to you never to be personal any more as long as you lived.’ To which Mr. Weevle returns, ‘William, I should have thought it would have been a lesson to YOU never to conspire any more as long as you lived.’ To which Mr. Guppy says, ‘Who’s conspiring?’ To which Mr. Jobling replies, ‘Why, YOU are!’ To which Mr. Guppy retorts, ‘No, I am not.’ To which Mr. Jobling retorts again, ‘Yes, you are!’ To which Mr. Guppy retorts, ‘Who says so?’ To which Mr. Jobling retorts, ‘I say so!’ To which Mr. Guppy retorts, ‘Oh, indeed?’ To which Mr. Jobling retorts, ‘Yes, indeed!’ And both being now in a heated state, they walk on silently for a while to cool down again.
这种虚构的现象让古比先生感到非常不舒服，他的声音颤抖着，以一种道德的方式说道：“托尼，我应该想到我们昨晚所经历的事情会给你一个教训，让你永远不要再把个人问题当回事了。”韦夫勒先生回答说：“威廉，我本以为这对你来说是一个教训，只要你还活着，就不要再密谋了。”对此，古皮先生说：“谁是对此，乔布林先生回答道：“为什么，你是！”对此，古皮先生反驳道：“不，我不是。”对此，乔布林先生再次反驳道：“是的，你是！”孔雀鱼反驳道，“谁这么说的？”乔布林先生反驳道，“我这么说！”孔雀鱼先生反驳道，“哦，确实如此？”乔布林先生反驳道，“是的，确实如此！”两人现在都处于热气腾腾的状态，默默地走了一会儿，才又冷静下来。

‘Tony,’ says Mr. Guppy then, ‘if you heard your friend out instead of flying at him, you wouldn’t fall into mistakes. But your temper is hasty and you are not considerate. Possessing in yourself, Tony, all that is calculated to charm the eye—‘
“托尼，”古比先生接着说，“如果你听你的朋友说完而不是冲向他，你就不会犯错误。但你脾气急躁，不善解人意。托尼，你身上所拥有的一切都是为了吸引眼球——”

‘Oh! Blow the eye!’ cries Mr. Weevle, cutting him short. ‘Say what you have got to say!’
'哦！打断他的眼睛！”威弗勒先生喊道，打断了他的话。 “说你要说的话！”

Finding his friend in this morose and material condition, Mr. Guppy only expresses the finer feelings of his soul through the tone of injury in which he recommences, ‘Tony, when I say there is a point on which we must come to an understanding pretty soon, I say so quite apart from any kind of conspiring, however innocent. You know it is professionally arranged beforehand in all cases that are tried what facts the witnesses are to prove. Is it or is it not desirable that we should know what facts we are to prove on the inquiry into the death of this unfortunate old mo—gentleman?’ (Mr. Guppy was going to say ‘mogul,’ but thinks ‘gentleman’ better suited to the circumstances.)
古比先生发现他的朋友处于这种忧郁和物质的状态，他只是通过受伤的语气表达了他灵魂的美好感受，他重新开始说：“托尼，当我说有一点我们必须很好地理解时”很快，我这样说，完全没有任何阴谋，无论多么无辜。你知道，在所有审理的案件中，证人要证明什么事实都是事先经过专业安排的。我们是否应该知道在调查这位不幸的老莫——绅士的死亡时我们要证明什么事实？适合具体情况。）

‘What facts? THE facts.’
‘什么事实？事实。'

‘The facts bearing on that inquiry. Those are’—Mr. Guppy tells them off on his fingers—‘what we knew of his habits, when you saw him last, what his condition was then, the discovery that we made, and how we made it.’
“与该调查有关的事实。那些是’——先生。孔比用手指告诉他们——“我们对他的习惯了解多少，你最后一次见到他是什么时候，他当时的状况如何，我们的发现，以及我们是如何发现的。”

‘Yes,’ says Mr. Weevle. ‘Those are about the facts.’
“是的，”韦夫勒先生说。 “这些都是事实。”

‘We made the discovery in consequence of his having, in his eccentric way, an appointment with you at twelve o’clock at night, when you were to explain some writing to him as you had often done before on account of his not being able to read. I, spending the evening with you, was called down—and so forth. The inquiry being only into the circumstances touching the death of the deceased, it’s not necessary to go beyond these facts, I suppose you’ll agree?’
“我们之所以有这个发现，是因为他以他古怪的方式在晚上十二点与你预约，当时你要向他解释一些写作，就像你以前经常做的那样，因为他不能读书。我和你一起度过了一个晚上，被叫下来——等等。调查只是涉及死者死亡的情况，没有必要超越这些事实，我想你会同意吗？

‘No!’ returns Mr. Weevle. ‘I suppose not.’
“不！”威弗尔先生回答道。 “我想不会。”

‘And this is not a conspiracy, perhaps?’ says the injured Guppy.
“这也许不是阴谋？”受伤的孔雀鱼说道。

‘No,’ returns his friend; ‘if it’s nothing worse than this, I withdraw the observation.’
“不，”他的朋友回答道。 “如果没有比这更糟糕的事情，我会撤回观察。”

‘Now, Tony,’ says Mr. Guppy, taking his arm again and walking him slowly on, ‘I should like to know, in a friendly way, whether you have yet thought over the many advantages of your continuing to live at that place?’
“现在，托尼，”古比先生再次挽起他的手臂，慢慢地走着，“我想以友好的方式知道，你是否考虑过继续住在那个地方的诸多好处。” ？

‘What do you mean?’ says Tony, stopping.
“你什么意思？”托尼停下来问道。

‘Whether you have yet thought over the many advantages of your continuing to live at that place?’ repeats Mr. Guppy, walking him on again.
“你有没有想过继续住在那个地方有很多好处？”古皮先生重复道，又带着他继续前行。

‘At what place? THAT place?’ pointing in the direction of the rag and bottle shop.
‘在什么地方？那个地方？”指着破布和瓶子店的方向。

Mr. Guppy nods.
古比先生点点头。

‘Why, I wouldn’t pass another night there for any consideration that you could offer me,’ says Mr. Weevle, haggardly staring.
“哎呀，如果你能为我提供任何考虑，我就不会再在那里过夜了，”威弗勒先生说道，目光憔悴地盯着。

‘Do you mean it though, Tony?’
“你是认真的吗，托尼？”

‘Mean it! Do I look as if I mean it? I feel as if I do; I know that,’ says Mr. Weevle with a very genuine shudder.
‘说真的！我看起来是认真的吗？我感觉好像我是这样做的；我知道这一点，”威夫勒先生说，他的内心非常颤抖。

‘Then the possibility or probability—for such it must be considered—of your never being disturbed in possession of those effects lately belonging to a lone old man who seemed to have no relation in the world, and the certainty of your being able to find out what he really had got stored up there, don’t weigh with you at all against last night, Tony, if I understand you?’ says Mr. Guppy, biting his thumb with the appetite of vexation.
“那么，有一种可能性或可​​能性——对此必须加以考虑——你最近拥有一个似乎与这个世界没有任何关系的孤独老人的那些物品，而你从未受到打扰，并且你能够确定你能够找到看看他到底在那里储存了什么，托尼，根本不用和你讨论昨晚的事，如果我理解你的话？”孔雀先生说，因为烦恼而咬着拇指。

‘Certainly not. Talk in that cool way of a fellow’s living there?’ cries Mr. Weevle indignantly. ‘Go and live there yourself.’
‘当然不是。 “用那种很酷的方式谈论一个人在那里的生活？”韦夫勒先生愤怒地喊道。 “你自己去那里住吧。”

‘Oh! I, Tony!’ says Mr. Guppy, soothing him. ‘I have never lived there and couldn’t get a lodging there now, whereas you have got one.’
'哦！我，托尼！”古比先生安抚他说道。 “我从来没有在那里住过，现在也找不到住处，而你却有。”

‘You are welcome to it,’ rejoins his friend, ‘and—ugh!—you may make yourself at home in it.’
“欢迎你来，”他的朋友回答道，“而且——呃！——你可以在里面感到宾至如归。”

‘Then you really and truly at this point,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘give up the whole thing, if I understand you, Tony?’
“那么，在这一点上，”古比先生说，“如果我理解你的话，你真的要放弃整件事吗，托尼？”

‘You never,’ returns Tony with a most convincing steadfastness, ‘said a truer word in all your life. I do!’
“你，”托尼以最令人信服的坚定态度回答道，“你这辈子从来没有说过更真实的话。”我愿意！'

While they are so conversing, a hackney-coach drives into the square, on the box of which vehicle a very tall hat makes itself manifest to the public. Inside the coach, and consequently not so manifest to the multitude, though sufficiently so to the two friends, for the coach stops almost at their feet, are the venerable Mr. Smallweed and Mrs. Smallweed, accompanied by their granddaughter Judy.
当他们正在交谈时，一辆出租马车驶入广场，车箱上有一顶很高的帽子显露出来。在马车里，受人尊敬的斯莫尔韦德先生和斯莫尔韦德夫人带着他们的孙女朱迪，虽然对这两个朋友来说足够明显，因为马车几乎就停在他们的脚边，但在马车里，对众人来说并不那么明显。

An air of haste and excitement pervades the party, and as the tall hat (surmounting Mr. Smallweed the younger) alights, Mr. Smallweed the elder pokes his head out of window and bawls to Mr. Guppy, ‘How de do, sir! How de do!’
聚会上弥漫着一种匆忙和兴奋的气氛，当高帽子（在小斯莫威德先生上方）落下时，老斯莫威德先生把头探出窗外，对孔雀鱼先生大声喊道：“你好，先生！”怎么办！’

‘What do Chick and his family want here at this time of the morning, I wonder!’ says Mr. Guppy, nodding to his familiar.
“我想知道，早上这个时候，奇克和他的家人来这里想做什么！”古皮先生一边说，一边向他的使魔点点头。

‘My dear sir,’ cries Grandfather Smallweed, ‘would you do me a favour? Would you and your friend be so very obleeging as to carry me into the public-house in the court, while Bart and his sister bring their grandmother along? Would you do an old man that good turn, sir?’
“亲爱的先生，”斯莫威德爷爷喊道，“你能帮我一个忙吗？你和你的朋友会热心地把我带进法院的酒馆，而巴特和他的妹妹则带着他们的祖母吗？先生，您愿意为一位老人做这样的好事吗？

Mr. Guppy looks at his friend, repeating inquiringly, ‘The publichouse in the court?’ And they prepare to bear the venerable burden to the Sol’s Arms.
古比先生看着他的朋友，询问地重复道：“宫廷里的酒馆？”然后他们准备将这一令人尊敬的负担扛到索尔的手臂上。

‘There’s your fare!’ says the patriarch to the coachman with a fierce grin and shaking his incapable fist at him. ‘Ask me for a penny more, and I’ll have my lawful revenge upon you. My dear young men, be easy with me, if you please. Allow me to catch you round the neck. I won’t squeeze you tighter than I can help. Oh, Lord! Oh, dear me! Oh, my bones!’
“这是你的车费！”族长对车夫说道，他咧嘴一笑，向他挥舞着无力的拳头。 “再向我要一分钱，我就会对你进行合法的报复。”我亲爱的年轻人，如果愿意的话，请对我轻松点。请允许我掐住你的脖子。我不会把你压得更紧。我的天！噢，亲爱的我！哦，我的骨头！

It is well that the Sol is not far off, for Mr. Weevle presents an apoplectic appearance before half the distance is accomplished. With no worse aggravation of his symptoms, however, than the utterance of divers croaking sounds expressive of obstructed respiration, he fulils his share of the porterage and the benevolent old gentleman is deposited by his own desire in the parlour of the Sol’s Arms.
幸亏太阳号离我们不远了，因为威弗勒先生还没走完一半的距离就露出了中风的表情。然而，他的症状并没有比呼吸受阻时发出的各种嘎嘎声更严重，他完成了自己的搬运工作，仁慈的老绅士按照自己的意愿被安置在索尔武器的客厅里。

‘Oh, Lord!’ gasps Mr. Smallweed, looking about him, breathless, from an arm-chair. ‘Oh, dear me! Oh, my bones and back! Oh, my aches and pains! Sit down, you dancing, prancing, shambling, scrambling poll-parrot! Sit down!’
“噢，上帝啊！”斯莫威德先生喘着气说道，他坐在扶手椅上，气喘吁吁地环顾四周。 ‘噢，亲爱的我！哦，我的骨头和背部！哦，我的疼痛！坐下吧，你这跳舞、腾跃、蹒跚、爬行的鹦鹉！坐下！'

This little apostrophe to Mrs. Smallweed is occasioned by a propensity on the part of that unlucky old lady whenever she finds herself on her feet to amble about and ‘set’ to inanimate objects, accompanying herself with a chattering noise, as in a witch dance. A nervous affection has probably as much to do with these demonstrations as any imbecile intention in the poor old woman, but on the present occasion they are so particularly lively in connexion with the Windsor arm-chair, fellow to that in which Mr. Smallweed is seated, that she only quite desists when her grandchildren have held her down in it, her lord in the meanwhile bestowing upon her, with great volubility, the endearing epithet of ‘a pig-headed jackdaw,’ repeated a surprising number of times.
斯莫威德夫人的这个小撇号是由于那位不幸的老太太发现自己站起来漫步并“设置”到无生命的物体时的一种倾向而引起的，伴随着一种喋喋不休的声音，就像在巫婆舞蹈中一样。紧张的感情可能与这位可怜的老妇人的任何愚蠢的意图一样与这些示威有关，但在目前的情况下，它们与温莎扶手椅的联系是如此特别活跃，温莎扶手椅是斯莫威德先生坐在其中的同胞。坐着，只有当她的孙子们把她压在里面时，她才会完全停止，与此同时，她的主人滔滔不绝地授予她“猪头寒鸦”的可爱绰号，重复了令人惊讶的次数。

‘My dear sir,’ Grandfather Smallweed then proceeds, addressing Mr. Guppy, ‘there has been a calamity here. Have you heard of it, either of you?’
“亲爱的先生，”史莫威德祖父接着对孔雀鱼先生说道，“这里发生了一场灾难。你们听说过吗？

‘Heard of it, sir! Why, we discovered it.’
‘听说了，先生！为什么，我们发现了它。

‘You discovered it. You two discovered it! Bart, THEY discovered it!’
‘你发现了它。你们两个发现了！巴特，他们发现了！”

The two discoverers stare at the Smallweeds, who return the compliment.
两位发现者盯着小杂草，小杂草也回以恭维。

‘My dear friends,’ whines Grandfather Smallweed, putting out both his hands, ‘I owe you a thousand thanks for discharging the melancholy office of discovering the ashes of Mrs. Smallweed’s brother.’
“我亲爱的朋友们，”斯莫威德祖父伸出双手哀嚎道，“我欠你们一千个感谢，感谢你们履行了发现斯莫威德夫人弟弟骨灰的悲惨职责。”

‘Eh?’ says Mr. Guppy.
“呃？”古比先生说。

‘Mrs. Smallweed’s brother, my dear friend—her only relation. We were not on terms, which is to be deplored now, but he never WOULD be on terms. He was not fond of us. He was eccentric—he was very eccentric. Unless he has left a will (which is not at all likely) I shall take out letters of administration. I have come down to look after the property; it must be sealed up, it must be protected. I have come down,’ repeats Grandfather Smallweed, hooking the air towards him with all his ten fingers at once, ‘to look after the property.’
'太太。斯莫威德的兄弟，我亲爱的朋友——她唯一的亲戚。我们的关系不和，这现在令人遗憾，但他永远不会和好。他不喜欢我们。他很古怪——他非常古怪。除非他留下遗嘱（这根本不可能），否则我将拿出遗产管理书。我是来照看财产的；它必须被密封，它必须受到保护。我下来了，”斯莫威德祖父重复道，同时用十个手指将空气勾向他，“是为了看管这片土地。”

‘I think, Small,’ says the disconsolate Mr. Guppy, ‘you might have mentioned that the old man was your uncle.’
“我想，斯莫尔，”孔雀先生郁闷地说，“你可能提到过那个老人是你的叔叔。”

‘You two were so close about him that I thought you would like me to be the same,’ returns that old bird with a secretly glistening eye. ‘Besides, I wasn’t proud of him.’
“你们两个对他的关系如此亲密，我以为你们也会希望我也和他一样。”那只老鸟用一双暗自闪闪发光的眼睛回答道。 “此外，我并不为他感到骄傲。”

‘Besides which, it was nothing to you, you know, whether he was or not,’ says Judy. Also with a secretly glistening eye.
“除此之外，无论他是不是，这对你来说都无关紧要，你知道，”朱迪说。还带着一双隐秘的闪闪发光的眼睛。

‘He never saw me in his life to know me,’ observed Small; ‘I don’t know why I should introduce HIM, I am sure!’
“他一生中从未见过我，也从未认识过我，”斯莫尔说道。 “我不知道为什么要介绍他，但我确定！”

‘No, he never communicated with us, which is to be deplored,’ the old gentleman strikes in, ‘but I have come to look after the property—to look over the papers, and to look after the property. We shall make good our title. It is in the hands of my solicitor. Mr. Tulkinghorn, of Lincoln’s Inn Fields, over the way there, is so good as to act as my solicitor; and grass don’t grow under HIS feet, I can tell ye. Krook was Mrs. Smallweed’s only brother; she had no relation but Krook, and Krook had no relation but Mrs. Smallweed. I am speaking of your brother, you brimstone blackbeetle, that was seventy-six years of age.’
“不，他从来没有和我们联系过，这令人遗憾，”老绅士插嘴道，“但我是来照管财产的——检查文件，照管财产。”我们将兑现我们的称号。它在我的律师手中。林肯因菲尔兹的图金霍恩先生就在那边，他非常热心地担任我的律师。我可以告诉你们，他的脚下不长草。克鲁克是斯莫威德夫人唯一的兄弟。除了克鲁克之外，她没有任何亲属关系，而克鲁克除了斯莫威德夫人之外没有任何亲属关系。我说的是你的兄弟，你这个硫磺黑甲虫，已经七十六岁了。

Mrs. Smallweed instantly begins to shake her head and pipe up, ‘Seventy-six pound seven and sevenpence! Seventysix thousand bags of money! Seventy-six hundred thousand million of parcels of banknotes!’
斯莫尔威德太太立即开始摇头并尖声说道：“七十六英镑七又七便士！”七万六千袋钱！七百六十亿包钞票！

‘Will somebody give me a quart pot?’ exclaims her exasperated husband, looking helplessly about him and finding no missile within his reach. ‘Will somebody obleege me with a spittoon? Will somebody hand me anything hard and bruising to pelt at her? You hag, you cat, you dog, you brimstone barker!’ Here Mr. Smallweed, wrought up to the highest pitch by his own eloquence, actually throws Judy at her grandmother in default of anything else, by butting that young virgin at the old lady with such force as he can muster and then dropping into his chair in a heap.
“有人能给我一夸脱壶吗？”她愤怒的丈夫惊呼道，他无助地环顾四周，发现手边没有导弹。 “有人会用痰盂来求我吗？有人会递给我任何坚硬的、瘀伤的东西来攻击她吗？你这个老太婆，你这个猫，你这个狗，你这个硫磺狂吠者！”在这里，斯莫威德先生被自己的口才达到了最高的音调，实际上，他不顾一切地把朱迪扔到了她的祖母身上，把那个年轻的处女撞到了老处女身上。那位女士用尽了他所能集中的力量，然后瘫坐在椅子上。

‘Shake me up, somebody, if you’ll he so good,’ says the voice from within the faintly struggling bundle into which he has collapsed. ‘I have come to look after the property. Shake me up, and call in the police on duty at the next house to be explained to about the property. My solicitor will be here presently to protect the property. Transportation or the gallows for anybody who shall touch the property!’ As his dutiful grandchildren set him up, panting, and putting him through the usual restorative process of shaking and punching, he still repeats like an echo, ‘The—the property! The property! Property!’
“谁能摇醒我，如果你愿意的话，”他已经倒在了微弱挣扎的包裹里，声音说道。 ‘我是来照看财产的。把我摇醒，然后叫来隔壁的值班警察，向我解释财产的情况。我的律师很快就会来保护财产。交通或绞刑架，任何触及财产的人！”当他尽职的孙子把他扶起来，气喘吁吁，并让他经历通常的摇晃和拳打的恢复过程时，他仍然像回声一样重复，“财产！财产！财产！'

Mr. Weevle and Mr. Guppy look at each other, the former as having relinquished the whole affair, the latter with a discomfited countenance as having entertained some lingering expectations yet. But there is nothing to be done in opposition to the Smallweed interest. Mr. Tulkinghorn’s clerk comes down from his official pew in the chambers to mention to the police that Mr. Tulkinghorn is answerable for its being all correct about the next of kin and that the papers and effects will be formally taken possession of in due time and course. Mr. Smallweed is at once permitted so far to assert his supremacy as to be carried on a visit of sentiment into the next house and upstairs into Miss Flite’s deserted room, where he looks like a hideous bird of prey newly added to her aviary.
韦夫勒先生和古比先生互相看了一眼，前者似乎已经放弃了这一切，后者一脸窘迫，似乎还抱有一些挥之不去的期望。但我们无法采取任何措施来反对 Smallweed 的利益。图金霍恩先生的职员从会议厅的正式席位上下来，向警方提及，图金霍恩先生应对其关于近亲的一切正确性负责，文件和财物将在适当的时候被正式接管。课程。斯莫威德先生立刻被允许宣示他的至高无上的地位，并被带去隔壁的房子进行一次情感访问，然后上楼进入弗利特小姐的废弃房间，在那里他看起来就像一只新添加到她的鸟舍里的可怕的猛禽。

The arrival of this unexpected heir soon taking wind in the court still makes good for the Sol and keeps the court upon its mettle. Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Perkins think it hard upon the young man if there really is no will, and consider that a handsome present ought to be made him out of the estate. Young Piper and young Perkins, as members of that restless juvenile circle which is the terror of the foot-passengers in Chancery Lane, crumble into ashes behind the pump and under the archway all day long, where wild yells and hootings take place over their remains. Little Swills and Miss M. Melvilleson enter into affable conversation with their patrons, feeling that these unusual occurrences level the barriers between professionals and non-professionals. Mr. Bogsby puts up ‘The popular song of King Death, with chorus by the whole strength of the company,’ as the great Harmonic feature of the week and announces in the bill that ‘J. G. B. is induced to do so at a considerable extra expense in consequence of a wish which has been very generally expressed at the bar by a large body of respectable individuals and in homage to a late melancholy event which has aroused so much sensation.’ There is one point connected with the deceased upon which the court is particularly anxious, namely, that the fiction of a full-sized coffin should be preserved, though there is so little to put in it. Upon the undertaker’s stating in the Sol’s bar in the course of the day that he has received orders to construct ‘a six-footer,’ the general solicitude is much relieved, and it is considered that Mr. Smallweed’s conduct does him great honour.
这位意想不到的继承人的到来很快就在宫廷中引起了轰动，这对索尔来说仍然是一件好事，并保持了宫廷的勇气。派珀夫人和珀金斯夫人认为，如果这个年轻人真的没有遗嘱，那就太难了，并认为应该从遗产中为他准备一份丰厚的礼物。年轻的派珀和年轻的珀金斯，作为令大法官巷的行人恐惧的不安分的青少年圈子的成员，整天在水泵后面和拱门下化为灰烬，在那里，他们的遗体上响起了疯狂的叫喊和叫喊声。 。 Little Swills 和 M. Melvilleson 小姐与顾客进行了亲切的交谈，他们认为这些不寻常的事件消除了专业人士和非专业人士之间的障碍。博格斯比先生将“死亡之王的流行歌曲，公司全体力量合唱”作为本周最精彩的 Harmonic 专题，并在法案中宣布“J. G. B. 被引诱这样做，花费了相当大的额外费用，这是因为酒吧里一大群受人尊敬的人士普遍表达了一个愿望，也是为了向最近引起如此大轰动的悲伤事件致敬。法院特别关注与死者有关的一点，即应该保留一具全尺寸棺材的虚构作品，尽管里面可放的东西很少。当天，殡葬承办人在索尔酒吧里宣布，他已收到建造“一座六英尺高的建筑”的命令，大家的忧虑都松了一口气，人们认为斯莫威德先生的行为给他带来了莫大的荣誉。

Out of the court, and a long way out of it, there is considerable excitement too, for men of science and philosophy come to look, and carriages set down doctors at the corner who arrive with the same intent, and there is more learned talk about inflammable gases and phosphuretted hydrogen than the court has ever imagined. Some of these authorities (of course the wisest) hold with indignation that the deceased had no business to die in the alleged manner; and being reminded by other authorities of a certain inquiry into the evidence for such deaths reprinted in the sixth volume of the Philosophical Transactions; and also of a book not quite unknown on English medical jurisprudence; and likewise of the Italian case of the Countess Cornelia Baudi as set forth in detail by one Bianchini, prebendary of Verona, who wrote a scholarly work or so and was occasionally heard of in his time as having gleams of reason in him; and also of the testimony of Messrs. Fodere and Mere, two pestilent Frenchmen who WOULD investigate the subject; and further, of the corroborative testimony of Monsieur Le Cat, a rather celebrated French surgeon once upon a time, who had the unpoliteness to live in a house where such a case occurred and even to write an account of it—still they regard the late Mr. Krook’s obstinacy in going out of the world by any such by-way as wholly unjustifiable and personally offensive. The less the court understands of all this, the more the court likes it, and the greater enjoyment it has in the stock in trade of the Sol’s Arms. Then there comes the artist of a picture newspaper, with a foreground and figures ready drawn for anything from a wreck on the Cornish coast to a review in Hyde Park or a meeting in Manchester, and in Mrs. Perkins’ own room, memorable evermore, he then and there throws in upon the block Mr. Krook’s house, as large as life; in fact, considerably larger, making a very temple of it. Similarly, being permitted to look in at the door of the fatal chamber, he depicts that apartment as three-quarters of a mile long by fifty yards high, at which the court is particularly charmed. All this time the two gentlemen before mentioned pop in and out of every house and assist at the philosophical disputations—go everywhere and listen to everybody—and yet are always diving into the Sol’s parlour and writing with the ravenous little pens on the tissue-paper.
走出法庭，走出法庭很远，也有相当大的兴奋，科学界和哲学界的人士前来观看，马车将怀着同样意图到达的医生停在拐角处，并且有更多有学问的谈话关于易燃气体和磷化氢的含量超出法院的想象。其中一些权威人士（当然是最明智的）愤怒地认为，死者没有理由以所谓的方式死去；并被其他当局提醒对《哲学汇刊》第六卷中重印的此类死亡证据进行某些调查；还有一本不太为人所知的关于英国医学法学的书；同样，意大利科妮莉亚·鲍迪伯爵夫人的案件也由维罗纳的准主教比安奇尼详细阐述，他写过一部左右的学术著作，在他那个时代偶尔会听说他身上闪烁着理性的光芒。还有 Fodere 和 Mere 先生的证词，这两个法国人将调查这个问题；此外，勒卡特先生的证词也证实了他的证词，勒卡特先生是一位颇有名气的法国外科医生，他无礼地住在发生过此类案件的房子里，甚至还写了一份报告——他们仍然认为已故的克鲁克先生固执地以任何这样的方式走出世界，这是完全不合理的，而且对个人来说是一种冒犯。宫廷对这一切了解得越少，宫廷就越喜欢它，并且对索尔之臂的库存交易也就越感兴趣。然后是图片报纸的艺术家，前景和人物已经准备好，从康沃尔海岸的沉船到海德公园的评论或曼彻斯特的会议，再到《夫人》。 帕金斯自己的房间，永远令人难忘，他当时就把克鲁克先生的房子扔到了街区上，像真人一样大；事实上，它要大得多，简直就是一座寺庙。同样，当他被允许查看致命房间的门时，他将那间公寓描绘成四分之三英里长、五十码高，宫廷对此特别着迷。一直以来，前面提到的两位先生在每所房子里进进出出，协助哲学辩论——到处走走，倾听每个人的意见——但总是潜入索尔的客厅，用贪婪的小笔在薄纸上写作。

At last come the coroner and his inquiry, like as before, except that the coroner cherishes this case as being out of the common way and tells the gentlemen of the jury, in his private capacity, that ‘that would seem to be an unlucky house next door, gentlemen, a destined house; but so we sometimes find it, and these are mysteries we can’t account for!’ After which the six-footer comes into action and is much admired.
最后，验尸官和他的调查一样，就像以前一样，只是验尸官认为这个案件不寻常，并以私人身份告诉陪审团先生们，“那似乎是一栋不吉利的房子”先生们，隔壁是一座命中注定的房子；但我们有时会发现它，而这些都是我们无法解释的奥秘！”之后，这位六英尺高的人开始行动并受到了极大的钦佩。

In all these proceedings Mr. Guppy has so slight a part, except when he gives his evidence, that he is moved on like a private individual and can only haunt the secret house on the outside, where he has the mortification of seeing Mr. Smallweed padlocking the door, and of bitterly knowing himself to be shut out. But before these proceedings draw to a close, that is to say, on the night next after the catastrophe, Mr. Guppy has a thing to say that must be said to Lady Dedlock.
在所有这些诉讼中，古比先生的作用是如此微不足道，除非他提供证据，否则他就像一个私人一样被移动，只能在外面的秘密房子里出没，在那里他羞于见到斯莫威德先生锁上门，痛苦地知道自己被关在门外。但在这些程序结束之前，也就是说，在灾难发生后的第二天晚上，古皮先生有话要说，必须对戴德洛克夫人说。

For which reason, with a sinking heart and with that hang-dog sense of guilt upon him which dread and watching enfolded in the Sol’s Arms have produced, the young man of the name of Guppy presents himself at the town mansion at about seven o’clock in the evening and requests to see her ladyship. Mercury replies that she is going out to dinner; don’t he see the carriage at the door? Yes, he does see the carriage at the door; but he wants to see my Lady too.
因此，带着一颗沉沉的心，带着被索尔的手臂包裹着的恐惧和监视所产生的那种悬而未决的负罪感，那个名叫孔雀鱼的年轻人在七点左右出现在镇上的宅邸。晚上的钟声要求见见她的女士。水星回答说她要出去吃晚饭；他没看到门口有马车吗？是的，他确实看到了门口的马车；但他也想见我的女士。

Mercury is disposed, as he will presently declare to a fellowgentleman in waiting, ‘to pitch into the young man”; but his instructions are positive. Therefore he sulkily supposes that the young man must come up into the library. There he leaves the young man in a large room, not over-light, while he makes report of him.
正如水星即将向一位等待中的绅士同胞宣布的那样，他准备“向年轻人投掷”；但他的指示是积极的。因此他闷闷不乐地认为年轻人一定是到图书馆来的。在那里，他把年轻人留在一个光线不太亮的大房间里，同时他向他汇报情况。

Mr. Guppy looks into the shade in all directions, discovering everywhere a certain charred and whitened little heap of coal or wood. Presently he hears a rustling. Is it—? No, it’s no ghost, but fair flesh and blood, most brilliantly dressed.
孔雀先生向各个方向的阴影里望去，发现到处都有一些烧焦、变白的小煤堆或木头。不久他听到一阵沙沙声。是吗-？不，这不是幽灵，而是有血有肉、衣着光鲜亮丽的人。

‘I have to beg your ladyship’s pardon,’ Mr. Guppy stammers, very downcast. ‘This is an inconvenient time—‘
“我必须请求夫人的原谅，”古皮先生结结巴巴地说，非常沮丧。 “现在是个不方便的时刻——”

‘I told you, you could come at any time.’ She takes a chair, looking straight at him as on the last occasion.
“我告诉过你，你随时都可以来。”她坐在椅子上，像上次一样直视着他。

‘Thank your ladyship. Your ladyship is very affable.’
‘谢谢夫人。夫人非常和蔼可亲。

‘You can sit down.’ There is not much affability in her tone.
“你可以坐下了。”她的语气中没有太多的和蔼可亲。

‘I don’t know, your ladyship, that it’s worth while my sitting down and detaining you, for I—I have not got the letters that I mentioned when I had the honour of waiting on your ladyship.’
“夫人，我不知道我是否值得坐下来拘留您，因为我——我没有收到我有幸侍候您的夫人时提到的那些信。”

‘Have you come merely to say so?’
“你来这里只是为了这么说吗？”

‘Merely to say so, your ladyship.’ Mr. Guppy besides being depressed, disappointed, and uneasy, is put at a further disadvantage by the splendour and beauty of her appearance.
“只是这么说，夫人。”孔比先生除了感到沮丧、失望和不安之外，还因为她容貌的辉煌和美丽而处于更加不利的地位。

She knows its influence perfectly, has studied it too well to miss a grain of its effect on any one. As she looks at him so steadily and coldly, he not only feels conscious that he has no guide in the least perception of what is really the complexion of her thoughts, but also that he is being every moment, as it were, removed further and further from her.
她完全了解它的影响，并且研究得非常透彻，不会错过它对任何人的影响。当她如此坚定而冷漠地看着他时，他不仅意识到自己对她的真实想法毫无了解，而且每时每刻都在进一步远离自己。离她更远。

She will not speak, it is plain. So he must.
她不会说话，很简单。所以他必须。

‘In short, your ladyship,’ says Mr. Guppy like a meanly penitent thief, ‘the person I was to have had the letters of, has come to a sudden end, and—‘ He stops. Lady Dedlock calmly finishes the sentence.
“简而言之，夫人，”古比先生像一个卑鄙的忏悔小偷一样说道，“我本该收到信件的那个人突然去世了，而且——”他停了下来。戴德洛克女士平静地说完这句话。

‘And the letters are destroyed with the person?’
“那么这些信件和这个人一起被毁掉了吗？”

Mr. Guppy would say no if he could—as he is unable to hide.
如果可以的话，古比先生会拒绝——因为他无法隐藏。

‘I believe so, your ladyship.’
“我相信是这样，夫人。”

If he could see the least sparkle of relief in her face now? No, he could see no such thing, even if that brave outside did not utterly put him away, and he were not looking beyond it and about it.
现在他是否能在她脸上看到一丝欣慰的光芒呢？不，他看不到这样的事情，即使那个勇敢的外表并没有完全把他拒之门外，而且他也没有超越它并关注它。

He falters an awkward excuse or two for his failure.
他为自己的失败找了一两个尴尬的借口。

‘Is this all you have to say?’ inquires Lady Dedlock, having heard him out—or as nearly out as he can stumble.
“这就是你要说的全部内容吗？”戴德洛克夫人在听完他的讲话后问道——或者说是尽可能地绊倒他。

Mr. Guppy thinks that’s all.
古比先生认为仅此而已。

‘You had better be sure that you wish to say nothing more to me, this being the last time you will have the opportunity.’
“你最好确定你不想再对我多说什么了，这是你最后一次有机会了。”

Mr. Guppy is quite sure. And indeed he has no such wish at present, by any means.
古比先生非常肯定。事实上，无论如何，他目前还没有这样的愿望。

‘That is enough. I will dispense with excuses. Good evening to you!’ And she rings for Mercury to show the young man of the name of Guppy out.
'足够了。我将不再找借口。晚上好！”她按响了水星的电话，让他​​带那个名叫孔雀鱼的年轻人出去。

But in that house, in that same moment, there happens to be an old man of the name of Tulkinghorn. And that old man, coming with his quiet footstep to the library, has his hand at that moment on the handle of the door—comes in—and comes face to face with the young man as he is leaving the room.
但就在同一时刻，在那所房子里，恰好有一位名叫图尔金霍恩的老人。那位老人迈着安静的脚步来到图书馆，此时他的手放在门把手上——进来了——在年轻人离开房间时，他与他面对面。

One glance between the old man and the lady, and for an instant the blind that is always down flies up. Suspicion, eager and sharp, looks out. Another instant, close again.
老人和女士一眼望去，一向垂下的百叶窗一瞬间飞了起来。怀疑，急切而尖锐，向外张望。又一瞬间，再次关闭。

‘I beg your pardon, Lady Dedlock. I beg your pardon a thousand times. It is so very unusual to find you here at this hour. I supposed the room was empty. I beg your pardon!’
“请您原谅，戴德洛克女士。我请你原谅一千次。这个时间在这里见到你真是太不寻常了。我以为房间是空的。请再说一遍！'

‘Stay!’ She negligently calls him back. ‘Remain here, I beg. I am going out to dinner. I have nothing more to say to this young man!’
“留下来！”她漫不经心地叫他回来。 “我恳求你，留在这里。”我要出去吃晚饭。我对这个年轻人没什么可说的了！

The disconcerted young man bows, as he goes out, and cringingly hopes that Mr. Tulkinghorn of the Fields is well.
那个惊慌失措的年轻人走出去时鞠了一躬，并满怀畏惧地希望田野的图尔金霍恩先生一切都好。

‘Aye, aye?’ says the lawyer, looking at him from under his bent brows, though he has no need to look again—not he. ‘From Kenge and Carboy’s, surely?’
“是吗？是吗？”律师弯着眉毛看着他，说道，尽管他不需要再看——他自己不需要。 “肯定是肯格和卡博伊的吗？”

‘Kenge and Carboy’s, Mr. Tulkinghorn. Name of Guppy, sir.’
“肯格和卡博伊的，图金霍恩先生。孔雀鱼的名字，先生。”

‘To be sure. Why, thank you, Mr. Guppy, I am very well!’
'为了确定。嗯，谢谢你，古比先生，我很好！

‘Happy to hear it, sir. You can’t be too well, sir, for the credit of the profession.’
“很高兴听到这个消息，先生。先生，为了这个职业的声誉，你不可能做得太好。”

‘Thank you, Mr. Guppy!’
“谢谢你，孔雀鱼先生！”

Mr. Guppy sneaks away. Mr. Tulkinghorn, such a foil in his oldfashioned rusty black to Lady Dedlock’s brightness, hands her down the staircase to her carriage. He returns rubbing his chin, and rubs it a good deal in the course of the evening.
孔雀鱼先生偷偷溜走了。图金霍恩先生用他老式的铁锈黑色衬托了戴德洛克夫人的光彩，他把她送下楼梯，送到了马车上。他回来揉着下巴，整个晚上都揉了很多次。

CHAPTER XXXIV
第三十四章


A Turn of the Screw
拧螺丝

‘Now, what,’ says Mr. George, ‘may this be? Is it blank cartridge or ball? A flash in the pan or a shot?’
“现在，”乔治先生说，“这可能是什么？是空白墨盒还是球？昙花一现还是一枪毙命？

An open letter is the subject of the trooper’s speculations, and it seems to perplex him mightily. He looks at it at arm’s length, brings it close to him, holds it in his right hand, holds it in his left hand, reads it with his head on this side, with his head on that side, contracts his eyebrows, elevates them, still cannot satisfy himself. He smooths it out upon the table with his heavy palm, and thoughtfully walking up and down the gallery, makes a halt before it every now and then to come upon it with a fresh eye. Even that won’t do. ‘Is it,’ Mr. George still muses, ‘blank cartridge or ball?’
一封公开信是这名士兵猜测的主题，这似乎让他非常困惑。他远远地看，靠近，右手拿，左手拿，头向这边读，头向那边读，皱眉，扬眉。 ，还是不能满足自己。他用沉重的手掌把它放在桌子上，若有所思地在画廊里走来走去，时不时地在它面前停下来，以新的眼光审视它。即使那样也行不通。 “是，”乔治先生仍在沉思，“是空弹还是球？”

Phil Squod, with the aid of a brush and paint-pot, is employed in the distance whitening the targets, softly whistling in quick-march time and in drum-and-fife manner that he must and will go back again to the girl he left behind him.
菲尔·斯夸德在画笔和油漆桶的帮助下，在远处将目标涂白，以快节奏的节奏和鼓与横笛的方式轻柔地吹着口哨，他必须并且将会再次回到他所认识的女孩身边。留在了他身后。

‘Phil!’ The trooper beckons as he calls him.
“菲尔！”士兵一边喊他，一边向他招手。

Phil approaches in his usual way, sidling off at first as if he were going anywhere else and then bearing down upon his commander like a bayonet-charge. Certain splashes of white show in high relief upon his dirty face, and he scrapes his one eyebrow with the handle of the brush.
菲尔以他惯常的方式接近，一开始侧身走开，好像他要去其他地方，然后像刺刀冲锋一样向他的指挥官冲来。他肮脏的脸上浮现出一些白色的浮雕，他用刷子的手柄刮擦一根眉毛。

‘Attention, Phil! Listen to this.’
‘注意，菲尔！听听这个。'

‘Steady, commander, steady.’
“稳住，指挥官，稳住。”

‘‘Sir. Allow me to remind you (though there is no legal necessity for my doing so, as you are aware) that the bill at two months’ date drawn on yourself by Mr. Matthew Bagnet, and by you accepted, for the sum of ninety-seven pounds four shillings and ninepence, will become due to-morrow, when you will please be prepared to take up the same on presentation. Yours, Joshua Smallweed.’ What do you make of that, Phil?’
''先生。请允许我提醒您（尽管如您所知，我这样做没有法律必要），马修·巴格内特先生在两个月后为您开出了账单，并由您接受，金额为九十-七英镑四先令九便士将于明天到期，届时请您准备好在演示中接受同样的金额。你的，约书亚·斯莫威德。“菲尔，你对此有何看法？”

‘Mischief, guv’ner.’
“恶作剧，长官。”

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

‘I think,’ replies Phil after pensively tracing out a cross-wrinkle in his forehead with the brush-handle, ‘that mischeevious consequences is always meant when money’s asked for.’
“我认为，”菲尔用刷柄若有所思地在额头上画出一条交叉皱纹后回答道，“当要钱的时候，总是意味着恶作剧的后果。”

‘Lookye, Phil,’ says the trooper, sitting on the table. ‘First and last, I have paid, I may say, half as much again as this principal in interest and one thing and another.’
“看，菲尔，”坐在桌子上的士兵说道。 “首先也是最后一点，我可以说，我已经支付了本金一半的利息，还有这样那样的东西。”

Phil intimates by sidling back a pace or two, with a very unaccountable wrench of his wry face, that he does not regard the transaction as being made more promising by this incident.
菲尔向后退了一两步，脸上莫名其妙地扭动了一下，暗示他并不认为这次事件让这笔交易变得更有希望。

‘And lookye further, Phil,’ says the trooper, staying his premature conclusions with a wave of his hand. ‘There has always been an understanding that this bill was to be what they call renewed. And it has been renewed no end of times. What do you say now?’
“再看看，菲尔，”士兵说道，挥了挥手，维持了他不成熟的结论。 “人们一直认为这项法案将被更新。”而且它已经被更新了无数次。你现在说什么？

‘I say that I think the times is come to a end at last.’
“我说我认为这个时代终于结束了。”

‘You do? Humph! I am much of the same mind myself.’
'你做？哼!我自己也有同样的想法。

‘Joshua Smallweed is him that was brought here in a chair?’
“约书亚·斯莫威德就是坐在椅子上被带到这里的人吗？”

‘The same.’
'相同。'

‘Guv’ner,’ says Phil with exceeding gravity, ‘he’s a leech in his dispositions, he’s a screw and a wice in his actions, a snake in his twistings, and a lobster in his claws.’
“古纳，”菲尔严肃地说，“他的性情是水蛭，他的行为是螺丝钉，他的扭曲是蛇，他的爪子是龙虾。”

Having thus expressively uttered his sentiments, Mr. Squod, after waiting a little to ascertain if any further remark be expected of him, gets back by his usual series of movements to the target he has in hand and vigorously signifies through his former musical medium that he must and he will return to that ideal young lady. George, having folded the letter, walks in that direction.
斯阔德先生如此表达地表达了他的感情，等了一会儿以确定是否需要他发表进一步的评论，然后通过他惯常的一系列动作回到了他手中的目标，并通过他以前的音乐媒介有力地表示：他必须而且他一定会回到那个理想的小姐身边。乔治把信折好，朝那个方向走去。

‘There IS a way, commander,’ says Phil, looking cunningly at him, ‘of settling this.’
“有一个办法，指挥官，”菲尔狡猾地看着他，“可以解决这个问题。”

‘Paying the money, I suppose? I wish I could.’
“我想是付钱吧？我希望我能。'

Phil shakes his head. ‘No, guv’ner, no; not so bad as that. There IS a way,’ says Phil with a highly artistic turn of his brush; ‘what I’m a-doing at present.’
菲尔摇摇头。 “不，长官，不；”还不错。 “有办法。”菲尔用极具艺术性的画笔说道。 “我现在正在做什么。”

‘Whitewashing.’
'粉刷。'

Phil nods.
菲尔点点头。

‘A pretty way that would be! Do you know what would become of the Bagnets in that case? Do you know they would be ruined to pay off my old scores? YOU’RE a moral character,’ says the trooper, eyeing him in his large way with no small indignation; ‘upon my life you are, Phil!’
‘那真是太好了！你知道如果那样的话 Bagnets 会变成什么样子吗？你知道他们会毁掉我的旧债吗？ “你是一个有道德的人。”士兵说道，眼睛里充满了不小的愤慨。 “菲尔，我以你的生命担保！”

Phil, on one knee at the target, is in course of protesting earnestly, though not without many allegorical scoops of his brush and smoothings of the white surface round the rim with his thumb, that he had forgotten the Bagnet responsibility and would not so much as injure a hair of the head of any member of that worthy family when steps are audible in the long passage without, and a cheerful voice is heard to wonder whether George is at home. Phil, with a look at his master, hobbles up, saying, ‘Here’s the guv’ner, Mrs. Bagnet! Here he is!’ and the old girl herself, accompanied by Mr. Bagnet, appears.
菲尔单膝跪在靶子前，正在诚恳地抗议，尽管他不无寓意地用画笔轻轻地舀了几下，用拇指抚平了边缘周围的白色表面，但他忘记了巴内特的责任，也不会那么强烈地抗议。当外面长长的过道里传来脚步声，并且听到一个欢快的声音询问乔治是否在家时，这就像伤害那个可敬的家庭成员的一根头发一样。菲尔看了一眼他的主人，一瘸一拐地站起来，说道：“这是州长，巴格尼特夫人！”他来了！”老女孩本人在巴格尼特先生的陪同下出现了。

The old girl never appears in walking trim, in any season of the year, without a grey cloth cloak, coarse and much worn but very clean, which is, undoubtedly, the identical garment rendered so interesting to Mr. Bagnet by having made its way home to Europe from another quarter of the globe in company with Mrs. Bagnet and an umbrella. The latter faithful appendage is also invariably a part of the old girl’s presence out of doors. It is of no colour known in this life and has a corrugated wooden crook for a handle, with a metallic object let into its prow, or beak, resembling a little model of a fanlight over a street door or one of the oval glasses out of a pair of spectacles, which ornamental object has not that tenacious capacity of sticking to its post that might be desired in an article long associated with the British army. The old girl’s umbrella is of a flabby habit of waist and seems to be in need of stays—an appearance that is possibly referable to its having served through a series of years at home as a cupboard and on journeys as a carpet bag. She never puts it up, having the greatest reliance on her well-proved cloak with its capacious hood, but generally uses the instrument as a wand with which to point out joints of meat or bunches of greens in marketing or to arrest the attention of tradesmen by a friendly poke. Without her marketbasket, which is a sort of wicker well with two flapping lids, she never stirs abroad. Attended by these her trusty companions, therefore, her honest sunburnt face looking cheerily out of a rough straw bonnet, Mrs. Bagnet now arrives, fresh-coloured and bright, in George’s Shooting Gallery.
老姑娘在一年中的任何季节里，走路时都不会穿着一件灰色的布斗篷，虽然粗糙、破旧，但非常干净，毫无疑问，这正是巴格尼特先生所穿的那件衣服，让他如此感兴趣。与巴格内特夫人和一把雨伞一起从地球的另一个角落回到欧洲。后者忠实的附属物也始终是老女孩户外活动的一部分。它没有现世已知的颜色，有一个波纹木钩作为把手，在它的船头或喙中插入一个金属物体，类似于街门上的扇形灯的小模型或椭圆形玻璃杯中的一个。一副眼镜，这种装饰物不具备长期与英国军队相关的物品中可能需要的顽强的坚守其位置的能力。老姑娘的伞腰部松垮，似乎需要撑住——这种外观可能与它多年来在家里当柜子、在旅途中当地毯包有关。她从不把它举起来，最大程度地依赖于她久经考验的斗篷和宽敞的兜帽，但通常使用该仪器作为魔杖，在营销中指出肉块或蔬菜串或吸引商人的注意力通过友好的戳。没有她的菜篮，那是一种带有两个扇动盖子的柳条井，她永远不会在国外活动。因此，在这些她值得信赖的同伴的陪伴下，巴格尼特夫人现在来到了乔治的射击馆，她那张诚实的晒黑的脸从一顶粗糙的草帽里露出来，看上去很高兴，她的肤色清新明亮。

‘Well, George, old fellow,’ says she, ‘and how do YOU do, this sunshiny morning?’
“好吧，乔治，老伙计，”她说，“这个阳光明媚的早晨，你好吗？”

Giving him a friendly shake of the hand, Mrs. Bagnet draws a long breath after her walk and sits down to enjoy a rest. Having a faculty, matured on the tops of baggage-waggons and in other such positions, of resting easily anywhere, she perches on a rough bench, unties her bonnet-strings, pushes back her bonnet, crosses her arms, and looks perfectly comfortable.
巴格内特夫人友好地与他握手，走完后长长地吸了一口气，然后坐下来休息。她有一种在行李车顶部和其他类似位置上成熟的能力，可以在任何地方轻松休息，她坐在一张粗糙的长凳上，解开帽子带子，推开帽子，交叉双臂，看起来非常舒服。

Mr. Bagnet in the meantime has shaken hands with his old comrade and with Phil, on whom Mrs. Bagnet likewise bestows a good-humoured nod and smile.
与此同时，巴格内特先生与他的老战友和菲尔握手，巴格内特夫人也同样幽默地点头并微笑。

‘Now, George,’ said Mrs. Bagnet briskly, ‘here we are, Lignum and myself’—she often speaks of her husband by this appellation, on account, as it is supposed, of Lignum Vitae having been his old regimental nickname when they first became acquainted, in compliment to the extreme hardness and toughness of his physiognomy—‘just looked in, we have, to make it all correct as usual about that security. Give him the new bill to sign, George, and he’ll sign it like a man.’
“现在，乔治，”巴格内特夫人轻快地说，“我们到了，利格努姆和我自己”——她经常用这个称呼来谈论她的丈夫，因为据推测，利格努姆维塔是他以前在团里的绰号。他们第一次认识，是为了称赞他外表的极端坚硬和坚韧——“我们只是进去看看，让保安的一切都像往常一样正确。”乔治，把新法案交给他签署，他会像个男人一样签署。

‘I was coming to you this morning,’ observes the trooper reluctantly.
“我今天早上就来找你，”士兵不情愿地说道。

‘Yes, we thought you’d come to us this morning, but we turned out early and left Woolwich, the best of boys, to mind his sisters and came to you instead—as you see! For Lignum, he’s tied so close now, and gets so little exercise, that a walk does him good. But what’s the matter, George?’ asks Mrs. Bagnet, stopping in her cheerful talk. ‘You don’t look yourself.’
“是的，我们以为你今天早上会来找我们，但我们很早就出发了，离开了伍尔维奇，最好的男孩，去照顾他的姐妹，而是来找你了——正如你所看到的！对于 Lignum 来说，他现在被绑得太紧了，几乎没有得到锻炼，所以散步对他有好处。 “乔治，怎么了？”巴格内特夫人停了下来，问道。 “你不看看自己。”

‘I am not quite myself,’ returns the trooper; ‘I have been a little put out, Mrs. Bagnet.’
“我不太像我自己，”士兵回答道。 “我有点不高兴，巴​​格内特太太。”

Her bright quick eye catches the truth directly. ‘George!’ holding up her forefinger. ‘Don’t tell me there’s anything wrong about that security of Lignum’s! Don’t do it, George, on account of the children!’
她明亮而敏捷的眼睛直接捕捉到了真相。 “乔治！”举起食指。 ‘别告诉我Lignum的安全措施有什么问题！乔治，为了孩子们，别这么做！”

The trooper looks at her with a troubled visage.
警察一脸困惑地看着她。

‘George,’ says Mrs. Bagnet, using both her arms for emphasis and occasionally bringing down her open hands upon her knees. ‘If you have allowed anything wrong to come to that security of Lignum’s, and if you have let him in for it, and if you have put us in danger of being sold up—and I see sold up in your face, George, as plain as print—you have done a shameful action and have deceived us cruelly. I tell you, cruelly, George. There!’
“乔治，”巴格内特太太用双臂强调，偶尔将张开的双手放在膝盖上。 “如果你允许任何错误发生在利格努姆的安全保障上，如果你让他参与进来，如果你让我们处于被出卖的危险之中——乔治，我在你的脸上看到了出卖的感觉，就像明明白白——你们做了可耻的事，残酷地欺骗了我们。我残酷地告诉你，乔治。那里！'

Mr. Bagnet, otherwise as immovable as a pump or a lamp-post, puts his large right hand on the top of his bald head as if to defend it from a shower-bath and looks with great uneasiness at Mrs. Bagnet.
巴格内特先生原本就像水泵或灯柱一样一动不动，但他却将右手大手放在光秃秃的头顶上，仿佛要保护自己的头免受淋浴，他不安地看着巴格内特太太。

‘George,’ says that old girl, ‘I wonder at you! George, I am ashamed of you! George, I couldn’t have believed you would have done it! I always knew you to be a rolling sone that gathered no moss, but I never thought you would have taken away what little moss there was for Bagnet and the children to lie upon. You know what a hard-working, steady-going chap he is. You know what Quebec and Malta and Woolwich are, and I never did think you would, or could, have had the heart to serve us so. Oh, George!’ Mrs. Bagnet gathers up her cloak to wipe her eyes on in a very genuine manner, ‘How could you do it?’
“乔治，”那个老女孩说，“我很奇怪你！乔治，我为你感到羞耻！乔治，我简直不敢相信你会做到这一点！我一直都知道你是一个不会长青苔的滚动之子，但我从未想过你会拿走巴格内特和孩子们躺在上面的那一点小青苔。你知道他是一个多么勤奋、踏实的小伙子。你知道魁北克、马耳他和伍尔维奇是什么，我从来没有想过你会，或者能够，有心为我们服务。哦，乔治！”巴格内特夫人卷起斗篷，真诚地擦了擦眼睛，“你怎么能这么做？”

Mrs. Bagnet ceasing, Mr. Bagnet removes his hand from his head as if the shower-bath were over and looks disconsolately at Mr. George, who has turned quite white and looks distressfully at the grey cloak and straw bonnet.
巴格尼特太太停下来，巴格尼特先生把手从头上移开，仿佛淋浴结束了，他沮丧地看着乔治先生，乔治先生的脸色变得煞白，痛苦地看着灰色斗篷和草帽。

‘Mat,’ says the trooper in a subdued voice, addressing him but still looking at his wife, ‘I am sorry you take it so much to heart, because I do hope it’s not so bad as that comes to. I certainly have, this morning, received this letter’—which he reads aloud—‘but I hope it may be set right yet. As to a rolling stone, why, what you say is true. I AM a rolling stone, and I never rolled in anybody’s way, I fully believe, that I rolled the least good to. But it’s impossible for an old vagabond comrade to like your wife and family better than I like ‘em, Mat, and I trust you’ll look upon me as forgivingly as you can. Don’t think I’ve kept anything from you. I haven’t had the letter more than a quarter of an hour.’
“马特，”士兵用低沉的声音说道，对他说话，但仍然看着他的妻子，“我很抱歉你把这件事放在心上，因为我确实希望事情没有那么糟糕。”今天早上我确实收到了这封信——”他大声读到了这封信——“但我希望它能得到纠正。至于滚石，为什么，你说的是真的。我是一块滚石，我从来没有以任何人的方式滚动，我完全相信，我滚动的方式是最糟糕的。但一个老流浪同志不可能比我更喜欢你的妻子和家人，马特，我相信你会尽可能宽容地看待我。别以为我对你隐瞒了什么。我收到这封信还不到一刻钟。”

‘Old girl,’ murmurs Mr. Bagnet after a short silence, ‘will you tell him my opinion?’
“老姑娘，”巴格内特先生沉默了一会儿，低声说道，“你能告诉他我的看法吗？”

‘Oh! Why didn’t he marry,’ Mrs. Bagnet answers, half laughing and half crying, ‘Joe Pouch’s widder in North America? Then he wouldn’t have got himself into these troubles.’
'哦！ “他为什么不结婚？”巴格内特夫人半笑半哭地回答道，“乔·普奇在北美走得更远了？”那么他就不会陷入这些麻烦之中。

‘The old girl,’ says Mr. Baguet, ‘puts it correct—why didn’t you?’
“老姑娘，”巴盖先生说，“说得对——为什么你不说呢？”

‘Well, she has a better husband by this time, I hope,’ returns the trooper. ‘Anyhow, here I stand, this present day, NOT married to Joe Pouch’s widder. What shall I do? You see all I have got about me. It’s not mine; it’s yours. Give the word, and I’ll sell off every morsel. If I could have hoped it would have brought in nearly the sum wanted, I’d have sold all long ago. Don’t believe that I’ll leave you or yours in the lurch, Mat. I’d sell myself first. I only wish,’ says the trooper, giving himself a disparaging blow in the chest, ‘that I knew of any one who’d buy such a second-hand piece of old stores.’
“好吧，我希望她现在有一个更好的丈夫，”士兵回答道。 “无论如何，今天我站在这里，没有嫁给乔·普奇的遗孀。我该怎么办？你看到了我所拥有的一切。不是我的;是你的。只要你一声令下，我就卖掉每一口。如果我能希望它能带来接近想要的金额，我早就卖掉了。别相信我会让你或你的家人陷入困境，马特。我会先把自己卖掉。 “我只希望，”警察轻蔑地在胸口上敲了一拳，“我只希望我知道有人会买这样一件旧商店的二手货。”

‘Old girl,’ murmurs Mr. Bagnet, ‘give him another bit of my mind.’
“老姑娘，”巴格内特先生低声说道，“再给他一点我的想法。”

‘George,’ says the old girl, ‘you are not so much to be blamed, on full consideration, except for ever taking this business without the means.’
“乔治，”老女孩说道，“考虑到你的全面考虑，你并没有什么过分的罪责，只是你在没有经济能力的情况下接手了这件事。”

‘And that was like me!’ observes the penitent trooper, shaking his head. ‘Like me, I know.’
“这就像我一样！”悔罪的士兵摇着头说道。 “就像我一样，我知道。”

‘Silence! The old girl,’ says Mr. Bagnet, ‘is correct—in her way of giving my opinions—hear me out!’
'安静！巴格内特先生说，“老姑娘是对的——她以她的方式表达了我的意见——听我说完！”

‘That was when you never ought to have asked for the security, George, and when you never ought to have got it, all things considered. But what’s done can’t be undone. You are always an honourable and straightforward fellow, as far as lays in your power, though a little flighty. On the other hand, you can’t admit but what it’s natural in us to be anxious with such a thing hanging over our heads. So forget and forgive all round, George. Come! Forget and forgive all round!’
“乔治，那时候你根本不应该要求安全，考虑到所有事情，你也不应该得到它。但已经发生的事是无法挽回的。在你力所能及的范围内，你总是一个诚实正直的人，尽管有点轻浮。另一方面，你也不能承认，我们对这样的事情感到焦虑是很自然的。所以，乔治，忘记并原谅一切。来！全面忘记并宽恕！

Mrs. Bagnet, giving him one of her honest hands and giving her husband the other, Mr. George gives each of them one of his and holds them while he speaks.
巴格内特夫人将她诚实的一只手递给他，另一只递给她的丈夫，乔治先生也向他们各伸出一只手，并在他说话时握着它们。

‘I do assure you both, there’s nothing I wouldn’t do to discharge this obligation. But whatever I have been able to scrape together has gone every two months in keeping it up. We have lived plainly enough here, Phil and I. But the gallery don’t quite do what was expected of it, and it’s not—in short, it’s not the mint. It was wrong in me to take it? Well, so it was. But I was in a manner drawn into that step, and I thought it might steady me, and set me up, and you’ll try to overlook my having such expectations, and upon my soul, I am very much obliged to you, and very much ashamed of myself.’ With these concluding words, Mr. George gives a shake to each of the hands he holds, and relinquishing them, backs a pace or two in a broad-chested, upright attitude, as if he had made a final confession and were immediately going to be shot with all military honours.
“我向你们俩保证，为了履行这一义务，我会尽一切努力。但我每两个月攒下的钱都会花掉。菲尔和我，我们在这里过着朴素的生活。但是画廊并没有完全达到人们的预期，它不是——简而言之，它不是造币厂。我接受它是错误的吗？嗯，确实如此。但我在某种程度上被吸引到了这一步，我想这可能会让我稳定下来，让我振作起来，而你会试图忽视我的这种期望，在我的灵魂上，我非常感谢你，并且说完这句话，乔治先生摇了摇他握住的每只手，然后松开它们，以宽阔的胸膛、挺直的态度向后退了一两步，仿佛他做了一个最后的坦白，并立即以所有军事荣誉被枪决。

‘George, hear me out!’ says Mr. Bagnet, glancing at his wife. ‘Old girl, go on!’
“乔治，听我说完！”巴格内特先生看了一眼他的妻子说道。 “老姑娘，继续吧！”

Mr. Bagnet, being in this singular manner heard out, has merely to observe that the letter must be attended to without any delay, that it is advisable that George and he should immediately wait on Mr. Smallweed in person, and that the primary object is to save and hold harmless Mr. Bagnet, who had none of the money. Mr. George, entirely assenting, puts on his hat and prepares to march with Mr. Bagnet to the enemy’s camp.
巴格内特先生以这种奇特的方式听取了他的意见，只需指出必须立即处理这封信，建议乔治和他立即亲自等候斯莫威德先生，并且主要目标是目的是拯救身无分文的巴格内特先生并使其免受伤害。乔治先生完全同意了，戴上帽子，准备与巴格内特先生一起前往敌人的营地。

‘Don’t you mind a woman’s hasty word, George,’ says Mrs. Bagnet, patting him on the shoulder. ‘I trust my old Lignum to you, and I am sure you’ll bring him through it.’
“乔治，你不介意女人的仓促一句话吗？”巴格内特夫人拍着他的肩膀说道。 “我把我的老Lignum托付给你，我相信你会带领他度过难关。”

The trooper returns that this is kindly said and that he WILL bring Lignum through it somehow. Upon which Mrs. Bagnet, with her cloak, basket, and umbrella, goes home, bright-eyed again, to the rest of her family, and the comrades sally forth on the hopeful errand of mollifying Mr. Smallweed.
士兵回复说这是善意的说法，他会以某种方式让利格纳姆度过难关。随后，巴格内特夫人带着斗篷、篮子和雨伞，回到家里，眼睛又明亮起来，回到家人身边，而同志们则出发去执行安抚斯莫威德先生的充满希望的任务。

Whether there are two people in England less likely to come satisfactorily out of any negotiation with Mr. Smallweed than Mr. George and Mr. Matthew Bagnet may be very reasonably questioned. Also, notwithstanding their martial appearance, broad square shoulders, and heavy tread, whether there are within the same limits two more simple and unaccustomed children in all the Smallweedy affairs of life. As they proceed with great gravity through the streets towards the region of Mount Pleasant, Mr. Bagnet, observing his companion to be thoughtful, considers it a friendly part to refer to Mrs. Bagnet’s late sally.
在英格兰，是否有两个人比乔治先生和马修·巴格尼特先生更不可能在与斯莫威德先生的谈判中取得令人满意的结果，这可能是一个非常合理的质疑。而且，尽管他们有着军人般的外表、宽阔的方肩和沉重的脚步，在小草生活的所有事务中是否还有两个更简单和不习惯的孩子。当他们严肃地穿过街道向芒特普莱森特地区前进时，巴格内特先生发现他的同伴若有所思，认为提及巴格内特夫人迟来的莎莉是一种友好的表现。

‘George, you know the old girl—she’s as sweet and as mild as milk. But touch her on the children—or myself—and she’s off like gunpowder.’
“乔治，你认识那个老女孩——她像牛奶一样甜美温和。但如果她碰触孩子们——或者我自己——她就会像火药一样消失。

‘It does her credit, Mat!’
“这是她的功劳，马特！”

‘George,’ says Mr. Bagnet, looking straight before him, ‘the old girl—can’t do anything—that don’t do her credit. More or less. I never say so. Discipline must he maintained.’
“乔治，”巴格内特先生直视前方说道，“这个老姑娘——什么也做不了——任何不值得她赞扬的事。”或多或少。我从来不这么说。他必须遵守纪律。

‘She’s worth her weight in gold,’ says the trooper.
“她的价值相当于她的黄金，”士兵说。

‘In gold?’ says Mr. Bagnet. ‘I’ll tell you what. The old girl’s weight—is twelve stone six. Would I take that weight—in any metal—for the old girl? No. Why not? Because the old girl’s metal is far more precious—-than the preciousest metal. And she’s ALL metal!’
“黄金？”巴格内特先生说。 ‘我会告诉你什么。老姑娘的体重——十二石六。我会为老女孩承受这个重量——任何金属吗？不，为什么不呢？因为老姑娘的金属比最珍贵的金属还要珍贵得多。她是全金属的！

‘You are right, Mat!’
“你是对的，马特！”

‘When she took me—and accepted of the ring—she ‘listed under me and the children—heart and head, for life. She’s that earnest,’ says Mr. Bagnet, ‘and true to her colours—that, touch us with a finger—and she turns out—and stands to her arms. If the old girl fires wide—once in a way—at the call of duty—look over it, George. For she’s loyal!’
“当她接受我并接受戒指时，她‘把我和孩子们的心和头脑都列在了我和孩子们的下面，一生一世。她是那么认真，”巴格内特先生说，“并且忠实于她的色彩——用手指触摸我们——结果她就站在她的怀里。如果那个老女孩在执行任务时偶尔开火的话，请注意，乔治。因为她很忠诚！

‘Why, bless her, Mat,’ returns the trooper, ‘I think the higher of her for it!’
“哎呀，上帝保佑她，马特，”士兵回答道，“我认为她做得更好！”

‘You are right!’ says Mr. Bagnet with the warmest enthusiasm, though without relaxing the rigidity of a single muscle. ‘Think as high of the old girl—as the rock of Gibraltar—and still you’ll be thinking low—of such merits. But I never own to it before her. Discipline must be maintained.’
“你是对的！”巴格内特先生热情地说，但没有放松任何一块肌肉的僵硬。 “对老女孩的评价就像直布罗陀的岩石一样高，但你仍然会对这些优点评价低。但我从来没有在她面前承认过这一点。必须维持纪律。”

These encomiums bring them to Mount Pleasant and to Grandfather Smallweed’s house. The door is opened by the perennial Judy, who, having surveyed them from top to toe with no particular favour, but indeed with a malignant sneer, leaves them standing there while she consults the oracle as to their admission. The oracle may be inferred to give consent from the circumstance of her returning with the words on her honey lips that they can come in if they want to it. Thus privileged, they come in and find Mr. Smallweed with his feet in the drawer of his chair as if it were a paper foot-bath and Mrs. Smallweed obscured with the cushion like a bird that is not to sing.
这些赞美把他们带到了普莱森特山和斯莫威德祖父的家里。门是常年不离不弃的朱迪打开的，她从头到脚打量了他们一眼，并没有什么特别的好意，但确实带着一种恶毒的冷笑，让他们站在那里，而她向神谕询问他们的入场情况。从她回来时嘴里甜言蜜语地说“如果他们愿意就可以进来”的情况，可以推断出神谕已经同意了。如此特权，他们走进来，发现斯莫威德先生的脚放在椅子的抽屉里，好像那是一个纸足浴，而斯莫威德太太则像一只不会唱歌的小鸟一样被垫子遮住了。

‘My dear friend,’ says Grandfather Smallweed with those two lean affectionate arms of his stretched forth. ‘How de do? How de do? Who is our friend, my dear friend?’
“我亲爱的朋友，”斯莫威德祖父伸出两只瘦长、充满感情的手臂说道。 ‘怎么办？怎么办？谁是我们的朋友，我亲爱的朋友？

‘Why this,’ returns George, not able to be very conciliatory at first, ‘is Matthew Bagnet, who has obliged me in that matter of ours, you know.’
“为什么会这样，”乔治回答道，一开始不太能和解，“是马修·巴格内特，你知道，他在我们的事情上帮了我的忙。”

‘Oh! Mr. Bagnet? Surely!’ The old man looks at him under his hand.
'哦！巴格内特先生？当然！”老人用手下看着他。

‘Hope you’re well, Mr. Bagnet? Fine man, Mr. George! Military air, sir!’
“希望你一切都好，巴格内特先生？”乔治先生，好人！军气，长官！”

No chairs being offered, Mr. George brings one forward for Bagnet and one for himself. They sit down, Mr. Bagnet as if he had no power of bending himself, except at the hips, for that purpose.
没有提供椅子，乔治先生为巴格内特带来了一把，为自己带来了一把。他们坐下来，巴格内特先生，好像他没有能力为此目的弯曲自己，除了臀部之外。

‘Judy,’ says Mr. Smallweed, ‘bring the pipe.’
“朱迪，”斯莫威德先生说，“把烟斗拿来。”

‘Why, I don’t know,’ Mr. George interposes, ‘that the young woman need give herself that trouble, for to tell you the truth, I am not inclined to smoke it to-day.’
“为什么，我不知道，”乔治先生插嘴道，“这位年轻女子是否需要给自己找麻烦，因为说实话，我今天不想抽烟。”

‘Ain’t you?’ returns the old man. ‘Judy, bring the pipe.’
“不是吗？”老人回答道。 “朱迪，把烟斗拿过来。”

‘The fact is, Mr. Smallweed,’ proceeds George, ‘that I find myself in rather an unpleasant state of mind. It appears to me, sir, that your friend in the city has been playing tricks.’
“事实是，斯莫威德先生，”乔治继续说道，“我发现自己的精神状态相当不愉快。先生，在我看来，你在城里的朋友一直在搞恶作剧。

‘Oh, dear no!’ says Grandfather Smallweed. ‘He never does that!’
“哦，天哪，不！”斯莫威德祖父说。 “他从来不这样做！”

‘Don’t he? Well, I am glad to hear it, because I thought it might be HIS doing. This, you know, I am speaking of. This letter.’
‘不是吗？嗯，我很高兴听到这个消息，因为我认为这可能是他做的。你知道，我正在谈论这个。这封信。'

Grandfather Smallweed smiles in a very ugly way in recognition of the letter.
斯莫威德祖父认出了这封信，露出非常难看的笑容。

‘What does it mean?’ asks Mr. George.
“这是什么意思？”乔治先生问道。

‘Judy,’ says the old man. ‘Have you got the pipe? Give it to me. Did you say what does it mean, my good friend?’
“朱迪，”老人说。 ‘你有管子吗？把它给我。你说这是什么意思吗，我的好朋友？

‘Aye! Now, come, come, you know, Mr. Smallweed,’ urges the trooper, constraining himself to speak as smoothly and confidentially as he can, holding the open letter in one hand and resting the broad knuckles of the other on his thigh, ‘a good lot of money has passed between us, and we are face to face at the present moment, and are both well aware of the understanding there has always been. I am prepared to do the usual thing which I have done regularly and to keep this matter going. I never got a letter like this from you before, and I have been a little put about by it this morning, because here’s my friend Matthew Bagnet, who, you know, had none of the money—‘
‘是啊！现在，来吧，来吧，你知道，斯莫威德先生，”士兵催促道，他一手拿着公开信，另一只手把宽指关节放在大腿上，尽量克制自己说话的流畅性和保密性，“我们之间已经度过了很多时光，此刻我们面对面，并且都清楚地意识到一直以来的理解。我准备做我经常做的平常事情，并让这件事继续下去。我以前从未收到过你写的这样的信，今天早上我对此感到有点不安，因为这是我的朋友马修·巴格内特，你知道，他没有钱——”

‘I DON’T know it, you know,’ says the old man quietly.
“你知道，我不知道，”老人平静地说。

‘Why, con-found you—it, I mean—I tell you so, don’t I?’
“为什么，让你感到困惑——我的意思是——我告诉过你了，不是吗？”

‘Oh, yes, you tell me so,’ returns Grandfather Smallweed. ‘But I don’t know it.’
“哦，是的，你是这么告诉我的，”斯莫威德祖父回答道。 “但我不知道。”

‘Well!’ says the trooper, swallowing his fire. ‘I know it.’
“好吧！”士兵吞下火说道。 '我知道这。'

Mr. Smallweed replies with excellent temper, ‘Ah! That’s quite another thing!’ And adds, ‘But it don’t matter. Mr. Bagnet’s situation is all one, whether or no.’
Smallweed先生脾气很好地回答道：“啊！那完全是另一回事！”并补充道，“但这并不重要。无论是否，巴格内特先生的情况都是如此。

The unfortunate George makes a great effort to arrange the affair comfortably and to propitiate Mr. Smallweed by taking him upon his own terms.
不幸的乔治竭尽全力把这件事安排得舒适，并按照自己的条件接受斯莫威德先生，以安抚他。

‘That’s just what I mean. As you say, Mr. Smallweed, here’s Matthew Bagnet liable to be fixed whether or no. Now, you see, that makes his good lady very uneasy in her mind, and me too, for whereas I’m a harurn-scarum sort of a good-for-nought that more kicks than halfpence come natural to, why he’s a steady family man, don’t you see? Now, Mr. Smallweed,’ says the trooper, gaining confidence as he proceeds in his soldierly mode of doing business, ‘although you and I are good friends enough in a certain sort of a way, I am well aware that I can’t ask you to let my friend Bagnet off entirely.’
‘这就是我的意思。正如你所说，斯莫尔韦德先生，马修·巴格内特无论是否能够得到修复。现在，你看，这让他的好夫人心里非常不安，我也是，因为虽然我是一个无用的人，自然而然地就会有比半便士更多的踢球，但为什么他是一个稳定的人顾家的男人，你看不出来吗？现在，斯莫尔韦德先生，”士兵说，在以军人的方式做事时获得了信心，“虽然你和我在某种程度上是足够好的朋友，但我很清楚我不能请你完全放过我的朋友巴格内特。”

‘Oh, dear, you are too modest. You can ASK me anything, Mr. George.’ (There is an ogreish kind of jocularity in Grandfather Smallweed to-day.)
‘哦，亲爱的，你太谦虚了。你可以问我任何事情，乔治先生。”（今天，斯莫威德祖父有一种食人魔般的幽默感。）

‘And you can refuse, you mean, eh? Or not you so much, perhaps, as your friend in the city? Ha ha ha!’
“你的意思是，你可以拒绝，是吗？或者，也许，你不像你在城里的朋友？哈哈哈！’

‘Ha ha ha!’ echoes Grandfather Smallweed. In such a very hard manner and with eyes so particularly green that Mr. Bagnet’s natural gravity is much deepened by the contemplation of that venerable man.
“哈哈哈！”斯莫威德爷爷附和道。巴格内特先生的态度如此严厉，眼睛特别绿，在这位可敬的人的沉思中，巴格内特先生的自然严肃感加深了很多。

‘Come!’ says the sanguine George. ‘I am glad to find we can be pleasant, because I want to arrange this pleasantly. Here’s my friend Bagnet, and here am I. We’ll settle the matter on the spot, if you please, Mr. Smallweed, in the usual way. And you’ll ease my friend Bagnet’s mind, and his family’s mind, a good deal if you’ll just mention to him what our understanding is.’
“来吧！”乐观的乔治说道。 “我很高兴发现我们可以愉快地相处，因为我想愉快地安排这一切。这是我的朋友巴格内特，我也在这里。如果您愿意，斯莫威德先生，我们会按照通常的方式当场解决问题。如果你向我的朋友巴格内特提及我们的理解，你就会让他和他的家人放心，这对他来说是一件好事。

Here some shrill spectre cries out in a mocking manner, ‘Oh, good gracious! Oh!’ Unless, indeed, it be the sportive Judy, who is found to be silent when the startled visitors look round, but whose chin has received a recent toss, expressive of derision and contempt. Mr. Bagnet’s gravity becomes yet more profound.
这时，有一个尖厉的幽灵以嘲讽的方式喊道：“哦，天哪！哦！”事实上，除非是活泼的朱迪，当惊愕的游客环顾四周时，她保持沉默，但她的下巴最近被甩动了，表现出嘲笑和蔑视。巴格内特先生的严肃性变得更加深刻。

‘But I think you asked me, Mr. George’—old Smallweed, who all this time has had the pipe in his hand, is the speaker now—‘I think you asked me, what did the letter mean?’
“但我想你问过我，乔治先生”——老斯莫威德一直拿着烟斗，现在是说话者——“我想你问过我，这封信是什么意思？”

‘Why, yes, I did,’ returns the trooper in his off-hand way, ‘but I don’t care to know particularly, if it’s all correct and pleasant.’
“嗯，是的，我做到了，”士兵随口答道，“但我并不想特别知道，这一切是否正确且令人愉快。”

Mr. Smallweed, purposely balking himself in an aim at the trooper’s head, throws the pipe on the ground and breaks it to pieces.
斯莫威德先生故意阻止自己瞄准士兵的头部，他把管子扔到地上，把它摔成了碎片。

‘That’s what it means, my dear friend. I’ll smash you. I’ll crumble you. I’ll powder you. Go to the devil!’
‘这就是它的意思，我亲爱的朋友。我会粉碎你。我会让你崩溃的。我给你粉。见鬼去吧！'

The two friends rise and look at one another. Mr. Bagnet’s gravity has now attained its profoundest point.
两个朋友站起来，互相看了一眼。巴格内特先生的严肃性现在已经达到了最深的地步。

‘Go to the devil!’ repeats the old man. ‘I’ll have no more of your pipe-smokings and swaggerings. What? You’re an independent dragoon, too! Go to my lawyer (you remember where; you have been there before) and show your independeuce now, will you? Come, my dear friend, there’s a chance for you. Open the street door, Judy; put these blusterers out! Call in help if they don’t go. Put ‘em out!’
“见鬼去吧！”老人重复道。 “我不会再受你的烟斗和大摇大摆的影响了。”什么？你也是独立的龙骑士！去见我的律师（你记得在哪里；你以前去过那里），现在就表现出你的独立性，好吗？来吧，我亲爱的朋友，你有机会。打开临街的门，朱迪；把这些咆哮者赶出去！如果他们不去，请寻求帮助。把他们赶出去！

He vociferates this so loudly that Mr. Bagnet, laying his hands on the shoulders of his comrade before the latter can recover from his amazement, gets him on the outside of the street door, which is instantly slammed by the triumphant Judy. Utterly confounded, Mr. George awhile stands looking at the knocker. Mr. Bagnet, in a perfect abyss of gravity, walks up and down before the little parlour window like a sentry and looks in every time he passes, apparently revolving something in his mind.
他喊得如此大声，以至于巴格内特先生在他的同伴从惊讶中恢复过来之前，把手放在了他的同伴的肩膀上，把他带到了街门的外面，得意洋洋的朱迪立刻把门关上了。乔治先生完全困惑了，他站在那里看着门环。巴格内特先生在一个完美的重力深渊中，像哨兵一样在客厅的小窗户前走来走去，每次经过时都会向里张望，显然他的脑子里在盘旋着什么。

‘Come, Mat,’ says Mr. George when he has recovered himself, ‘we must try the lawyer. Now, what do you think of this rascal?’
“来吧，马特，”乔治先生恢复过来后说道，“我们必须去找律师。”现在，你觉得这个无赖怎么样？

Mr. Bagnet, stopping to take a farewell look into the parlour, replies with one shake of his head directed at the interior, ‘If my old girl had been here—I’d have told him!’ Having so discharged himself of the subject of his cogitations, he falls into step and marches off with the trooper, shoulder to shoulder.
巴格内特先生停下来，向客厅里告别，朝室内摇了摇头，回答道：“如果我的老女儿在这里的话——我就会告诉他了！”说完就离开了这个话题。考虑到这一点，他迈出了步伐，与士兵并肩而行。

When they present themselves in Lincoln’s Inn Fields, Mr. Tulkinghorn is engaged and not to be seen. He is not at all willing to see them, for when they have waited a full hour, and the clerk, on his bell being rung, takes the opportunity of mentioning as much, he brings forth no more encouraging message than that Mr. Tulkinghorn has nothing to say to them and they had better not wait. They do wait, however, with the perseverance of military tactics, and at last the bell rings again and the client in possession comes out of Mr. Tulkinghorn’s room.
当他们出现在林肯因客栈时，图金霍恩先生正忙着，却不见踪影。他根本不愿意见他们，因为当他们等了整整一个小时，店员在铃响时，趁机提及了这些，他没有带来比图尔金霍恩先生更令人鼓舞的信息。无话可说，他们最好不要等待。然而，他们确实以军事策略的毅力等待着，最后铃声再次响起，拥有的客户从图金霍恩先生的房间里出来。

The client is a handsome old lady, no other than Mrs. Rouncewell, housekeeper at Chesney Wold. She comes out of the sanctuary with a fair old-fashioned curtsy and softly shuts the door. She is treated with some distinction there, for the clerk steps out of his pew to show her through the outer office and to let her out. The old lady is thanking him for his attention when she observes the comrades in waiting.
客户是一位英俊的老太太，正是切斯尼沃尔德的管家朗斯韦尔夫人。她走出圣所，行了一个老式的屈膝礼，轻轻地关上了门。她在那里受到了某种特殊的待遇，因为店员从座位上走出来，带她穿过外部办公室，然后让她出去。老太太一边观察等待的同志，一边感谢他的关注。

‘I beg your pardon, sir, but I think those gentlemen are military?’
“请您原谅，先生，但我认为那些先生们都是军人？”

The clerk referring the question to them with his eye, and Mr. George not turning round from the almanac over the fire-place. Mr. Bagnet takes upon himself to reply, ‘Yes, ma’am. Formerly.’
店员用眼睛向他们提出这个问题，而乔治先生则没有从壁炉上方的年鉴上转过身来。巴格内特先生亲自回答道：“是的，女士。”以前。'

‘I thought so. I was sure of it. My heart warms, gentlemen, at the sight of you. It always does at the sight of such. God bless you, gentlemen! You’ll excuse an old woman, but I had a son once who went for a soldier. A fine handsome youth he was, and good in his bold way, though some people did disparage him to his poor mother. I ask your pardon for troubling you, sir. God bless you, gentlemen!’
'我是这么想的。我确信这一点。先生们，一看到你们，我的心就暖暖的。看到这样的事情总是如此。上帝保佑你们，先生们！请原谅一位老妇人，但我有一个儿子曾经当过兵。他是个英俊的年轻人，性格大胆，尽管有些人确实在他可怜的母亲面前贬低他。先生，请您原谅，给您添麻烦了。上帝保佑你们，先生们！”

‘Same to you, ma’am!’ returns Mr. Bagnet with right good will.
“您也一样，女士！”巴格内特先生善意地回答道。

There is something very touching in the earnestness of the old lady’s voice and in the tremble that goes through her quaint old figure. But Mr. George is so occupied with the almanac over the fireplace (calculating the coming months by it perhaps) that he does not look round until she has gone away and the door is closed upon her.
老太太的语气诚恳，她那古雅的身躯颤抖不已，非常令人感动。但乔治先生正忙着看壁炉上的年鉴（也许是用它来计算未来几个月），直到她走开、门对她关上时，他才回头看一眼。

‘George,’ Mr. Bagnet gruffly whispers when he does turn from the almanac at last. ‘Don’t be cast down! ‘Why, soldiers, why—should we be melancholy, boys?’ Cheer up, my hearty!’
“乔治，”当巴格内特先生终于从年鉴上转过身来时，他粗声粗气地低声说道。 ‘别灰心丧气！ “为什么，士兵们，为什么——我们应该忧郁吗，孩子们？振作起来，我的心肝宝贝！”

The clerk having now again gone in to say that they are still there and Mr. Tulkinghorn being heard to return with some irascibility, ‘Let ‘em come in then!’ they pass into the great room with the painted ceiling and find him standing before the fire.
店员现在再次进去说他们还在那儿，有人听到图尔金霍恩先生带着一些愤怒回来了，“那就让他们进来吧！”他们走进了天花板漆成的大房间，发现他站在前面火。

‘Now, you men, what do you want? Sergeant, I told you the last time I saw you that I don’t desire your company here.’
‘现在，你们这些人，你们想要什么？中士，我上次见到你时就告诉过你，我不希望你在这里陪伴。

Sergeant replies—dashed within the last few minutes as to his usual manner of speech, and even as to his usual carriage—that he has received this letter, has been to Mr. Smallweed about it, and has been referred there.
警官在最后几分钟内回答说，他已经收到了这封信，已经向斯莫威德先生报告了此事，并且已被转介到那里。

‘I have nothing to say to you,’ rejoins Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘If you get into debt, you must pay your debts or take the consequences. You have no occasion to come here to learn that, I suppose?’
“我没什么可对你说的，”图尔金霍恩先生回答道。 ‘如果你负债了，你必须偿还债务，否则后果自负。我想你没有机会来这里了解这一点吧？

Sergeant is sorry to say that he is not prepared with the money.
中士很遗憾地说他没有准备好这笔钱。

‘Very well! Then the other man—this man, if this is he—must pay it for you.’
'很好！然后另一个人——这个人，如果是他的话——必须替你付钱。

Sergeant is sorry to add that the other man is not prepared with the money either.
中士很抱歉地补充说，另一个人也没有准备好这笔钱。

‘Very well! Then you must pay it between you or you must both be sued for it and both suffer. You have had the money and must refund it. You are not to pocket other people’s pounds, shillings, and pence and escape scot-free.’
'很好！然后你们必须共同支付这笔费用，否则你们都必须因此被起诉并双双受苦。您已经收到了钱，必须退还。你不能把别人的英镑、先令和便士装进口袋然后逍遥法外。”

The lawyer sits down in his easy-chair and stirs the fire. Mr. George hopes he will have the goodness to—
律师坐在安乐椅上，搅动火。乔治先生希望他能够——

‘I tell you, sergeant, I have nothing to say to you. I don’t like your associates and don’t want you here. This matter is not at all in my course of practice and is not in my office. Mr. Smallweed is good enough to offer these affairs to me, but they are not in my way. You must go to Melchisedech’s in Clifford’s Inn.’
“我告诉你，中士，我没什么可对你说的。我不喜欢你的同事，也不希望你在这里。这件事根本不属于我的执业范围，也不属于我的办公室。斯莫威德先生足够好，可以向我提供这些事务，但它们并不妨碍我。你必须去克利福德旅馆的麦基洗德店。

‘I must make an apology to you, sir,’ says Mr. George, ‘for pressing myself upon you with so little encouragement—which is almost as unpleasant to me as it can be to you—but would you let me say a private word to you?’
“我必须向您道歉，先生，”乔治先生说，“因为我没有给您太多鼓励——这对我来说几乎和对您一样不愉快——但是您能允许我私下说一句吗？”给你的话？

Mr. Tulkinghorn rises with his hands in his pockets and walks into one of the window recesses. ‘Now! I have no time to waste.’ In the midst of his perfect assumption of indifference, he directs a sharp look at the trooper, taking care to stand with his own back to the light and to have the other with his face towards it.
图金霍恩先生站起身来，双手插在口袋里，走进窗户的一处凹处。 '现在！我没有时间可以浪费。”在他装出一副冷漠的样子时，他锐利地看了那个士兵一眼，小心翼翼地让自己背对着灯光，而另一个则面朝灯光。

‘Well, sir,’ says Mr. George, ‘this man with me is the other party implicated in this unfortunate affair—nominally, only nominally— and my sole object is to prevent his getting into trouble on my account. He is a most respectable man with a wife and family, formerly in the Royal Artillery—‘
“好吧，先生，”乔治先生说，“和我在一起的这个人就是这起不幸事件的另一方——名义上的，只是名义上的——而我唯一的目的就是防止他因为我的缘故而陷入麻烦。”他是一位最受尊敬的人，有妻子和家庭，以前在皇家炮兵部队服役——”

‘My friend, I don’t care a pinch of snuff for the whole Royal Artillery establishment—officers, men, tumbrils, waggons, horses, guns, and ammunition.’
“我的朋友，我对整个皇家炮兵部队一点鼻烟都不在乎——军官、士兵、战车、马车、马匹、枪支和弹药。”

‘‘Tis likely, sir. But I care a good deal for Bagnet and his wife and family being injured on my account. And if I could bring them through this matter, I should have no help for it but to give up without any other consideration what you wanted of me the other day.’
“这很可能，先生。但我非常关心巴格内特和他的妻子和家人因为我的原因而受伤。如果我能让他们解决这件事，我就别无选择，只能放弃，不考虑你那天对我的要求。

‘Have you got it here?’
“你拿到这里了吗？”

‘I have got it here, sir.’
“我已经拿到这里了，先生。”

‘Sergeant,’ the lawyer proceeds in his dry passionless manner, far more hopeless in the dealing with than any amount of vehemence, ‘make up your mind while I speak to you, for this is final. After I have finished speaking I have closed the subject, and I won’t reopen it. Understand that. You can leave here, for a few days, what you say you have brought here if you choose; you can take it away at once if you choose. In case you choose to leave it here, I can do this for you—I can replace this matter on its old footing, and I can go so far besides as to give you a written undertaking that this man Bagnet shall never be troubled in any way until you have been proceeded against to the utmost, that your means shall be exhausted before the creditor looks to his. This is in fact all but freeing him. Have you decided?’
“警官，”律师以他那冷漠无情的态度继续说道，在处理问题上比任何激烈的态度都更加绝望，“在我对你说话的时候你就下定决心吧，因为这是最终决定。”我说完我就结束了这个话题，我不会再展开了。明白。如果你愿意的话，你可以把你所说的带来的东西离开这里几天；如果您愿意，可以立即将其带走。如果你选择把它留在这里，我可以为你做这件事——我可以把这件事放在原来的基础上，而且我甚至可以给你一份书面保证，这个巴格内特永远不会遇到任何麻烦。直到你受到最大程度的打击，在债权人求助于他之前，你的钱财就已经耗尽了。事实上，这几乎让他获得了自由。你决定了吗？'

The trooper puts his hand into his breast and answers with a long breath, ‘I must do it, sir.’
士兵把手伸进胸前，长长地吸了一口气，回答道：“我必须这么做，长官。”

So Mr. Tulkinghorn, putting on his spectacles, sits down and writes the undertaking, which he slowly reads and explains to Bagnet, who has all this time been staring at the ceiling and who puts his hand on his bald head again, under this new verbal shower-bath, and seems exceedingly in need of the old girl through whom to express his sentiments. The trooper then takes from his breast-pocket a folded paper, which he lays with an unwilling hand at the lawyer’s elbow. ‘‘Tis ouly a letter of instructions, sir. The last I ever had from him.’
于是，图金霍恩先生戴上眼镜，坐下来写下承诺书，他慢慢地读完并向巴格内特解释。言语上的沐浴，似乎非常需要老姑娘通过她来表达自己的情感。然后，警察从胸前的口袋里拿出一张折叠好的纸，他不情愿地把手放在律师的肘部。 “这只是一封指示信，先生。这是我从他那里得到的最后一次。

Look at a millstone, Mr. George, for some change in its expression, and you will find it quite as soon as in the face of Mr. Tulkinghorn when he opens and reads the letter! He refolds it and lays it in his desk with a countenance as unperturbable as death.
乔治先生，看看磨石的表情是否有一些变化，你就会发现，当图尔金霍恩先生打开并阅读这封信时，他的脸上就会出现同样的变化！他把它重新折叠起来，放在办公桌上，脸上的表情平静得像死人一样。

Nor has he anything more to say or do but to nod once in the same frigid and discourteous manner and to say briefly, ‘You can go. Show these men out, there!’ Being shown out, they repair to Mr. Bagnet’s residence to dine.
他也没什么可说的或可做的，只是以同样冷漠无礼的方式点了点头，简短地说：“你可以走了。”把这些人带出去！” 被带出去后，他们回到巴格内特先生的住处去吃饭。

Boiled beef and greens constitute the day’s variety on the former repast of boiled pork and greens, and Mrs. Bagnet serves out the meal in the same way and seasons it with the best of temper, being that rare sort of old girl that she receives Good to her arms without a hint that it might be Better and catches light from any little spot of darkness near her. The spot on this occasion is the darkened brow of Mr. George; he is unusually thoughtful and depressed. At first Mrs. Bagnet trusts to the combined endearments of Quebec and Malta to restore him, but finding those young ladies sensible that their existing Bluffy is not the Bluffy of their usual frolicsome acquaintance, she winks off the light infantry and leaves him to deploy at leisure on the open ground of the domestic hearth.
煮牛肉和蔬菜构成了当天的菜品，之前的饭菜是煮猪肉和蔬菜，巴格尼特太太以同样的方式上菜，并以最好的脾气调味，她是那种罕见的老女孩，她受到了良好的对待。到她的怀里，没有任何暗示可能会更好，并从她附近的任何黑暗小点中捕捉到光。这次的亮点是乔治先生深色的眉毛。他异常深思熟虑且忧郁。起初，巴格内特夫人相信魁北克和马耳他的共同爱戴可以让他恢复健康，但发现那些年轻女士们意识到，她们现有的布拉夫不是他们平时嬉闹的熟人中的布拉夫，她对轻步兵眨了眨眼，让他部署在在家庭壁炉的空地上休闲。

But he does not. He remains in close order, clouded and depressed. During the lengthy cleaning up and pattening process, when he and Mr. Bagnet are supplied with their pipes, he is no better than he was at dinner. He forgets to smoke, looks at the fire and ponders, lets his pipe out, fills the breast of Mr. Bagnet with perturbation and dismay by showing that he has no enjoyment of tobacco.
但他没有。他仍然保持着紧密的秩序，阴沉而沮丧。在漫长的清理和拍打过程中，当他和巴格尼特先生拿到烟斗时，他的情况并不比晚餐时好多少。他忘记了抽烟，看着炉火沉思，拔出烟斗，表现出他不喜欢烟草，这让巴格尼特先生的胸膛充满了不安和沮丧。

Therefore when Mrs. Bagnet at last appears, rosy from the invigorating pail, and sits down to her work, Mr. Bagnet growls, ‘Old girl!’ and winks monitions to her to find out what’s the matter.
因此，当巴格尼特夫人终于出现，她因提神桶而脸色红润，坐下来工作时，巴格尼特先生咆哮道：“老姑娘！”并向她眨眼，示意她看看出了什么事。

‘Why, George!’ says Mrs. Bagnet, quietly threading her needle. ‘How low you are!’
“为什么，乔治！”巴格内特太太一边说，一边静静地穿针线。 ‘你多么低贱啊！’

‘Am I? Not good company? Well, I am afraid I am not.’
‘我是吗？不是好公司？好吧，恐怕我不是。

‘He ain’t at all like Blulfy, mother!’ cries little Malta.
“他一点也不像布拉菲，妈妈！”小马耳他喊道。

‘Because he ain’t well, I think, mother,’ adds Quebec.
“我想，因为他身体不太好，妈妈，”魁北克补充道。

‘Sure that’s a bad sign not to be like Bluffy, too!’ returns the trooper, kissing the young damsels. ‘But it’s true,’ with a sigh, ‘true, I am afraid. These little ones are always right!’
“当然，这也是一个不好的兆头，不能像布拉夫一样！”士兵回答道，亲吻了年轻的​​姑娘们。 “但这是真的，”叹了口气，“恐怕是真的。”这些小家伙总是对的！”

‘George,’ says Mrs. Bagnet, working busily, ‘if I thought you cross enough to think of anything that a shrill old soldier’s wife—who could have bitten her tongue off afterwards and ought to have done it almost—said this morning, I don’t know what I shouldn’t say to you now.’
“乔治，”巴格内特夫人忙着工作，“如果我认为你会生气，会想到今天早上一个尖刻的老士兵的妻子——她本可以咬掉自己的舌头，而且几乎应该这么做——说的话，我不知道现在我不应该对你说些什么。”

‘My kind soul of a darling,’ returns the trooper. ‘Not a morsel of it.’
“亲爱的，我善良的灵魂，”士兵回答道。 “一点也没有。”

‘Because really and truly, George, what I said and meant to say was that I trusted Lignum to you and was sure you’d bring him through it. And you HAVE brought him through it, noble!’
“因为，乔治，我说的和想说的是，我真的相信你，并且相信你会带领他度过难关。”你已经带领他度过了难关，高贵的！”

‘Thankee, my dear!’ says George. ‘I am glad of your good opinion.’
“谢谢，亲爱的！”乔治说。 “我很高兴你的好意见。”

In giving Mrs. Bagnet’s hand, with her work in it, a friendly shake—for she took her seat beside him—the trooper’s attention is attracted to her face. After looking at it for a little while as she plies her needle, he looks to young Woolwich, sitting on his stool in the corner, and beckons that fifer to him.
当巴格尼特夫人坐在他旁边时，他友好地握了握巴格尼特夫人的手，她的手上拿着她的工作，警察的注意力被她的脸吸引了。当她穿针的时候，他看了一会儿，然后看着坐在角落里凳子上的年轻伍尔维奇，向他招手示意。

‘See there, my boy,’ says George, very gently smoothing the mother’s hair with his hand, ‘there’s a good loving forehead for you! All bright with love of you, my boy. A little touched by the sun and the weather through following your father about and taking care of you, but as fresh and wholesome as a ripe apple on a tree.’
“看那儿，我的孩子，”乔治一边说，一边用手轻轻地抚平母亲的头发，“你的额头真可爱！”一切都充满了对你的爱，我的孩子。跟随你的父亲并照顾你，让阳光和天气有点感动，但就像树上熟透的苹果一样新鲜和健康。

Mr. Bagnet’s face expresses, so far as in its wooden material lies, the highest approbation and acquiescence.
就其木质材料而言，巴格内特先生的脸表达了最高的认可和默许。

‘The time will come, my boy,’ pursues the trooper, ‘when this hair of your mother’s will be grey, and this forehead all crossed and re-crossed with wrinkles, and a fine old lady she’ll be then. Take care, while you are young, that you can think in those days, ‘I never whitened a hair of her dear head—I never marked a sorrowful line in her face!’ For of all the many things that you can think of when you are a man, you had better have THAT by you, Woolwich!’
“总有一天，我的孩子，”士兵继续说道，“到那时，你母亲的头发就会变白，额头上布满皱纹，那时她就会成为一位美丽的老太太了。”当你还年轻的时候，要小心，在那些日子里你可以这样想：“我从来没有白过她亲爱的头上的一根头发——我从来没有在她脸上画过一条悲伤的皱纹！”因为在你能想到的所有事情中，你是一个男人，你最好随身携带这个，伍尔维奇！”

Mr. George concludes by rising from his chair, seating the boy beside his mother in it, and saying, with something of a hurry about him, that he’ll smoke his pipe in the street a bit.
最后，乔治先生从椅子上站起来，让男孩坐在他母亲旁边，语气匆忙地说，他要在街上抽一会儿烟斗。

CHAPTER XXXV
第三十五章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

I lay ill through several weeks, and the usual tenor of my life became like an old remembrance. But this was not the effect of time so much as of the change in all my habits made by the helplessness and inaction of a sick-room. Before I had been confined to it many days, everything else seemed to have retired into a remote distance where there was little or no separation between the various stages of my life which had been really divided by years. In falling ill, I seemed to have crossed a dark lake and to have left all my experiences, mingled together by the great distance, on the healthy shore.
我病了好几个星期，平常的生活就像是一种古老的回忆。但这与其说是时间的影响，不如说是病房里的无助和无所事事改变了我的所有习惯。在我被限制在其中很多天之前，其他一切似乎都退到了遥远的距离，在那里，我生命的各个阶段之间几乎没有或根本没有分离，而这些阶段实际上是按岁月划分的。生病时，我仿佛跨过一片漆黑的湖水，把所有由遥远的距离交织在一起的经历留在了健康的岸边。

My housekeeping duties, though at first it caused me great anxiety to think that they were unperformed, were soon as far off as the oldest of the old duties at Greenleaf or the summer afternoons when I went home from school with my portfolio under my arm, and my childish shadow at my side, to my godmother’s house. I had never known before how short life really was and into how small a space the mind could put it.
我的家政职责，虽然一开始让我非常焦虑，认为它们没有得到履行，但很快就远离了格林利夫最古老的旧职责或夏天的下午，当我放学回家时，我的文件夹夹在腋下，和我幼稚的影子在我身边，去我教母的家。我以前从来不知道生命实际上是多么短暂，也不知道心灵能把它放在多么狭小的空间里。

While I was very ill, the way in which these divisions of time became confused with one another distressed my mind exceedingly. At once a child, an elder girl, and the little woman I had been so happy as, I was not only oppressed by cares and difficulties adapted to each station, but by the great perplexity of endlessly trying to reconcile them. I suppose that few who have not been in such a condition can quite understand what I mean or what painful unrest arose from this source.
当我病得很重时，这些时间的划分彼此混淆，让我感到非常痛苦。我既是一个孩子，一个年长的女孩，又是一个小女人，我曾经如此幸福，我不仅被适应每个处境的忧虑和困难所压迫，而且被无休止地试图调和它们的巨大困惑所压迫。我想，没有经历过这种情况的人很少能够完全理解我的意思，或者由此产生的痛苦的不安。

For the same reason I am almost afraid to hint at that time in my disorder—it seemed one long night, but I believe there were both nights and days in it—when I laboured up colossal staircases, ever striving to reach the top, and ever turned, as I have seen a worm in a garden path, by some obstruction, and labouring again. I knew perfectly at intervals, and I think vaguely at most times, that I was in my bed; and I talked with Charley, and felt her touch, and knew her very well; yet I would find myself complaining, ‘Oh, more of these never-ending stairs, Charley—more and more—piled up to the sky’, I think!’ and labouring on again.
出于同样的原因，我几乎不敢暗示当时我的混乱——那似乎是一个漫长的夜晚，但我相信其中既有黑夜，也有白天——当我费力地爬上巨大的楼梯，一直努力到达顶端，并且就像我在花园小路上看到的一条蠕虫一样，由于某些障碍，它会再次转动，然后再次劳动。我时不时地清楚地知道，而且大多数时候我也模模糊糊地想，我是在床上。我和查理交谈，感受到她的触摸，并且非常了解她。但我会发现自己在抱怨，“哦，更多这些永无休止的楼梯，查理——越来越多——堆积到天空，我想！”然后又继续努力。

Dare I hint at that worse time when, strung together somewhere in great black space, there was a flaming necklace, or ring, or starry circle of some kind, of which I was one of the beads! And when my only prayer was to be taken off from the rest and when it was such inexplicable agony and misery to be a part of the dreadful thing?
我敢暗示那个更糟糕的时刻，在巨大的黑色空间中的某个地方，有一条燃烧的项链、戒指或某种星星圈，而我就是其中的一颗珠子！当我唯一的祈祷是脱离其他祈祷时，当成为这可怕的事情的一部分是如此难以解释的痛苦和痛苦时？

Perhaps the less I say of these sick experiences, the less tedious and the more intelligible I shall be. I do not recall them to make others unhappy or because I am now the least unhappy in remembering them. It may be that if we knew more of such strange afflictions we might be the better able to alleviate their intensity.
也许我越少谈论这些病态的经历，我就会越不乏味，也越容易理解。我记起它们并不是为了让别人不高兴，也不是因为我现在想起它们最不高兴。如果我们更多地了解这些奇怪的痛苦，我们可能就能更好地减轻它们的强度。

The repose that succeeded, the long delicious sleep, the blissful rest, when in my weakness I was too calm to have any care for myself and could have heard (or so I think now) that I was dying, with no other emotion than with a pitying love for those I left behind—this state can be perhaps more widely understood. I was in this state when I first shrunk from the light as it twinkled on me once more, and knew with a boundless joy for which no words are rapturous enough that I should see again.
成功的休息，漫长而美味的睡眠，幸福的休息，当我在虚弱的时候，我太平静了，无法照顾自己，并且可以听到（或者我现在这么认为）我快要死了，除了与对我身后的人的怜悯之爱——这种状态也许可以被更广泛地理解。当我第一次在光再次闪烁时退缩时，我就处于这种状态，我带着无限的喜悦知道，没有任何言语可以描述我应该再次看到它。

I had heard my Ada crying at the door, day and night; I had heard her calling to me that I was cruel and did not love her; I had heard her praying and imploring to be let in to nurse and comfort me and to leave my bedside no more; but I had only said, when I could speak, ‘Never, my sweet girl, never!’ and I had over and over again reminded Charley that she was to keep my darling from the room whether I lived or died. Charley had been true to me in that time of need, and with her little hand and her great heart had kept the door fast.
我日日夜夜都听到我的艾达在门口哭泣；我听到她对我说我很残忍，不爱她；我听到她祈祷并恳求让她进来护理和安慰我，并且不要再离开我的床边。但当我能说话时，我才说：“永远不会，我可爱的女孩，永远不会！”我一遍又一遍地提醒查理，无论我是生是死，她都不能让我的宝贝进入房间。在我需要帮助的时候，查理对我很忠诚，用她的小手和伟大的心把门关得严严实实。

But now, my sight strengthening and the glorious light coming every day more fully and brightly on me, I could read the letters that my dear wrote to me every morning and evening and could put them to my lips and lay my cheek upon them with no fear of hurting her. I could see my little maid, so tender and so careful, going about the two rooms setting everything in order and speaking cheerfully to Ada from the open window again. I could understand the stillness in the house and the thoughtfulness it expressed on the part of all those who had always been so good to me. I could weep in the exquisite felicity of my heart and be as happy in my weakness as ever I had been in my strength.
但现在，我的视力增强了，灿烂的光芒每天都更加充分和明亮地照在我身上，我可以每天早上和晚上阅读我亲爱的写给我的信，并且可以将它们放在我的嘴唇上，将我的脸贴在它们上，而无需担心它们。害怕伤害她。我可以看到我的小女仆，那么温柔，那么细心，在两个房间里走来走去，把一切都安排妥当，并再次从开着的窗户里愉快地和艾达说话。我能理解房子里的寂静，以及那些一直对我那么好的人所表达的体贴。我可以在内心的美妙幸福中哭泣，在我的软弱中像在我的力量中一样快乐。

By and by my strength began to be restored. Instead of lying, with so strange a calmness, watching what was done for me, as if it were done for some one else whom I was quietly sorry for, I helped it a little, and so on to a little more and much more, until I became useful to myself, and interested, and attached to life again.
渐渐地，我的体力开始恢复。我没有撒谎，带着一种奇怪的平静，看着为我所做的一切，就好像这是为另一个我默默地感到抱歉的人所做的那样，我帮了一点忙，依此类推，越来越多，直到我对自己变得有用，变得有兴趣，并且再次热爱生活。

How well I remember the pleasant afternoon when I was raised in bed with pillows for the first time to enjoy a great tea-drinking with Charley! The little creature—sent into the world, surely, to minister to the weak and sick—was so happy, and so busy, and stopped so often in her preparations to lay her head upon my bosom, and fondle me, and cry with joyful tears she was so glad, she was so glad, that I was obliged to say, ‘Charley, if you go on in this way, I must lie down again, my darling, for I am weaker than I thought I was!’ So Charley became as quiet as a mouse and took her bright face here and there across and across the two rooms, out of the shade into the divine sunshine, and out of the sunshine into the shade, while I watched her peacefully. When all her preparations were concluded and the pretty tea-table with its little delicacies to tempt me, and its white cloth, and its flowers, and everything so lovingly and beautifully arranged for me by Ada downstairs, was ready at the bedside, I felt sure I was steady enough to say something to Charley that was not new to my thoughts.
我清楚地记得那个愉快的下午，我第一次在床上垫着枕头长大，和查理一起喝茶！这个小生物——当然是被派到这个世界上来照顾弱者和病人的——是如此快乐，如此忙碌，经常停下来准备把头靠在我怀里，抚摸我，高兴地哭泣。她流着泪，她太高兴了，她太高兴了，我不得不说：“查理，如果你继续这样下去，我必须再次躺下，亲爱的，因为我比我想象的还要虚弱！”查莉变得像老鼠一样安静，她那张明亮的脸在两个房间里来回走动，从阴凉处进入神圣的阳光，从阳光处进入阴凉处，而我则平静地看着她。当她所有的准备工作都完成后，漂亮的茶几、诱人的小菜、白桌布、鲜花，以及楼下艾达为我精心布置的一切，都准备在床边，我感到我确信我足够稳定，可以对查理说一些对我来说并不新鲜的事情。

First I complimented Charley on the room, and indeed it was so fresh and airy, so spotless and neat, that I could scarce believe I had been lying there so long. This delighted Charley, and her face was brighter than before.
首先，我称赞查理的房间，事实上，它是那么清新、通风、那么一尘不染、那么整洁，我简直不敢相信我已经在那里躺了这么久了。这让查理很高兴，她的脸色比以前更加明亮。

‘Yet, Charley,’ said I, looking round, ‘I miss something, surely, that I am accustomed to?’
“然而，查理，”我环顾四周说道，“我肯定想念一些我已经习惯的东西吗？”

Poor little Charley looked round too and pretended to shake her head as if there were nothing absent.
可怜的小查理也环顾四周，假装摇头，好像什么事都没有发生。

‘Are the pictures all as they used to be?’ I asked her.
“这些照片还和以前一样吗？”我问她。

‘Every one of them, miss,’ said Charley.
“他们每一个人，小姐，”查理说。

‘And the furniture, Charley?’
“查理，家具呢？”

‘Except where I have moved it about to make more room, miss.’
“除了我把它移到了哪里以腾出更多空间，小姐。”

‘And yet,’ said I, ‘I miss some familiar object. Ah, I know what it is, Charley! It’s the looking-glass.’
“然而，”我说，“我想念一些熟悉的东西。啊，我知道那是什么，查理！这是镜子。

Charley got up from the table, making as if she had forgotten something, and went into the next room; and I heard her sob there.
查理从桌子上站起来，好像她忘记了什么，走进了隔壁房间。我听到她在那里抽泣。

I had thought of this very often. I was now certain of it. I could thank God that it was not a shock to me now. I called Charley back, and when she came—at first pretending to smile, but as she drew nearer to me, looking grieved—I took her in my arms and said, ‘It matters very little, Charley. I hope I can do without my old face very well.’
我经常想到这一点。我现在可以肯定了。我感谢上帝，现在这对我来说并不感到震惊。我给查理回了电话，当她回来时——起初假装微笑，但当她靠近我时，她看起来很悲伤——我把她抱在怀里说：“这没什么关系，查理。”我希望我能在没有这张老脸的情况下过得很好。

I was presently so far advanced as to be able to sit up in a great chair and even giddily to walk into the adjoining room, leaning on Charley. The mirror was gone from its usual place in that room too, but what I had to bear was none the harder to bear for that.
我现在已经可以在一张大椅子上坐起来了，甚至可以靠在查理身上，头晕地走进隔壁的房间。房间里的镜子也从原来的位置消失了，但我所承受的却并不那么难以承受。

My guardian had throughout been earnest to visit me, and there was now no good reason why I should deny myself that happiness. He came one morning, and when he first came in, could only hold me in his embrace and say, ‘My dear, dear girl!’ I had long known—who could know better?—what a deep fountain of affection and generosity his heart was; and was it not worth my trivial suffering and change to fill such a place in it? ‘Oh, yes!’ I thought. ‘He has seen me, and he loves me better than he did; he has seen me and is even fonder of me than he was before; and what have I to mourn for!’
我的监护人一直很热心地来看望我，现在我没有充分的理由拒绝自己的幸福。一天早上他来了，当他第一次进来时，只能把我抱在怀里说：“我亲爱的，亲爱的女孩！”我早就知道——谁能知道得更清楚？——他的感情和慷慨是多么深厚的源泉。心是；为了填补其中的一个空缺，难道不值得我受些微不足道的痛苦和改变吗？ “哦，是的！”我想。 ‘他见过我，而且比以前更爱我；他见过我，甚至比以前更喜欢我了；我有什么可哀悼的！

He sat down by me on the sofa, supporting me with his arm. For a little while he sat with his hand over his face, but when he removed it, fell into his usual manner. There never can have been, there never can be, a pleasanter manner.
他坐在我旁边的沙发上，用手臂支撑着我。他用手捂着脸坐了一会儿，但当他把手拿开时，又恢复了平常的态度。从来没有、永远不可能有比这更令人愉快的方式了。

‘My little woman,’ said he, ‘what a sad time this has been. Such an inflexible little woman, too, through all!’
“我的小女人，”他说，“这是多么悲伤的时刻啊。”真是个不灵活的小女人啊！

‘Only for the best, guardian,’ said I.
“只为最好的，监护人，”我说。

‘For the best?’ he repeated tenderly. ‘Of course, for the best. But here have Ada and I been perfectly forlorn and miserable; here has your friend Caddy been coming and going late and early; here has every one about the house been utterly lost and dejected; here has even poor Rick been writing—to ME too—in his anxiety for you!’
“为了最好？”他温柔地重复道。 ‘当然，这是最好的。但艾达和我在这里感到非常孤独和痛苦；你的朋友凯迪来得迟、去得早；房子里的每个人都完全迷失和沮丧。就连可怜的里克也写信给我——因为他对你的焦虑！

I had read of Caddy in Ada’s letters, but not of Richard. I told him so.
我在艾达的信中读到过凯迪，但没有读过理查德。我告诉他了。

‘Why, no, my dear,’ he replied. ‘I have thought it better not to mention it to her.’
“为什么，不，亲爱的，”他回答道。 “我觉得最好不要向她提起这件事。”

‘And you speak of his writing to YOU,’ said I, repeating his emphasis. ‘As if it were not natural for him to do so, guardian; as if he could write to a better friend!’
“你谈到了他写给你的信，”我说，重复了他的强调。 “监护人，好像他这样做并不自然；就好像他可以写信给一个更好的朋友一样！

‘He thinks he could, my love,’ returned my guardian, ‘and to many a better. The truth is, he wrote to me under a sort of protest while unable to write to you with any hope of an answer—wrote coldly, haughtily, distantly, resentfully. Well, dearest little woman, we must look forbearingly on it. He is not to blame. Jarndyce and Jarndyce has warped him out of himself and perverted me in his eyes. I have known it do as bad deeds, and worse, many a time. If two angels could be concerned in it, I believe it would change their nature.’
“他认为他可以，我的爱人，”我的监护人回答道，“而且可以让很多人变得更好。”事实是，他写信给我是出于某种抗议，但却无法带着任何答复的希望写信给你——写得冷漠、傲慢、疏远、怨恨。好吧，最亲爱的小女人，我们必须耐心地看待它。他不应该受到责备。贾迪斯和贾迪斯扭曲了他，扭曲了他眼中的我。我知道很多时候这样做都是坏事，甚至更糟。如果两个天使能够参与其中，我相信这会改变他们的本性。

‘It has not changed yours, guardian.’
“它并没有改变你的，监护人。”

‘Oh, yes, it has, my dear,’ he said laughingly. ‘It has made the south wind easterly, I don’t know how often. Rick mistrusts and suspects me—goes to lawyers, and is taught to mistrust and suspect me. Hears I have conflicting interests, claims clashing against his and what not. Whereas, heaven knows that if I could get out of the mountains of wiglomeration on which my unfortunate name has been so long bestowed (which I can’t) or could level them by the extinction of my own original right (which I can’t either, and no human power ever can, anyhow, I believe, to such a pass have we got), I would do it this hour. I would rather restore to poor Rick his proper nature than be endowed with all the money that dead suitors, broken, heart and soul, upon the wheel of Chancery, have left unclaimed with the Accountant-General—and that’s money enough, my dear, to be cast into a pyramid, in memory of Chancery’s transcendent wickedness.’
“哦，是的，亲爱的，”他笑着说。 ‘它使南风转为东风，我不知道发生了多少次。里克不信任和怀疑我——去找了律师，并被教导要不信任和怀疑我。听说我有利益冲突，主张与他冲突等等。然而，天知道，如果我能够摆脱我不幸的名字长期以来被赋予的混乱山脉（我不能），或者可以通过消灭我自己的原始权利来平整它们（我不能）无论如何，我相信，人类的力量永远无法达到这样的境界），我这个小时就会这么做。我宁愿让可怜的里克恢复他应有的本性，也不愿意把那些死去的求婚者们在大法官法庭上心碎、心碎、在总会计师那里无人认领的所有钱财都赋予给我——而这些钱就足够了，亲爱的，被扔进金字塔，以纪念大法官办公室的超然邪恶。”

‘IS it possible, guardian,’ I asked, amazed, ‘that Richard can be suspicious of you?’
“监护人，理查德有可能对你产生怀疑吗？”我惊讶地问道。

‘Ah, my love, my love,’ he said, ‘it is in the subtle poison of such abuses to breed such diseases. His blood is infected, and objects lose their natural aspects in his sight. It is not HIS fault.’
“啊，我的爱人，我的爱人，”他说，“正是这种虐待行为的微妙毒害滋生了这种疾病。他的血液被感染，物体在他的视野中失去了自然的面貌。这不是他的错。

‘But it is a terrible misfortune, guardian.’
“但这是一个可怕的不幸，监护人。”

‘It is a terrible misfortune, little woman, to be ever drawn within the influences of Jarndyce and Jarndyce. I know none greater. By little and little he has been induced to trust in that rotten reed, and it communicates some portion of its rottenness to everything around him. But again I say with all my soul, we must be patient with poor Rick and not blame him. What a troop of fine fresh hearts like his have I seen in my time turned by the same means!’
“小女人，永远受到加迪斯和加迪斯的影响，这是一个可怕的不幸。我知道没有比这更伟大的了。渐渐地，他开始相信那根腐烂的芦苇，它把它的腐烂的一部分传达给了他周围的一切。但我再次全心全意地说，我们必须对可怜的瑞克保持耐心，而不是责备他。我在我的时代见过一群多么像他一样的新鲜的心啊！

I could not help expressing something of my wonder and regret that his benevolent, disinterested intentions had prospered so little.
我情不自禁地表达了我的惊讶和遗憾，因为他的仁慈、无私的意图却收效甚微。

‘We must not say so, Dame Durden,’ he cheerfully rephed; ‘Ada is the happier, I hope, and that is much. I did think that I and both these young creatures might be friends instead of distrustful foes and that we might so far counter-act the suit and prove too strong for it. But it was too much to expect. Jarndyce and Jarndyce was the curtain of Rick’s cradle.’
“我们不能这么说，德登夫人，”他高兴地反驳道。 “我希望艾达更快乐，仅此而已。我确实认为我和这两个年轻的生物可能是朋友而不是不信任的敌人，并且到目前为止我们可能会反击诉讼并证明我们太强大了。但这是太令人期待了。贾迪斯和贾迪斯是瑞克摇篮的帷幕。

‘But, guardian, may we not hope that a little experience will teach him what a false and wretched thing it is?’
“但是，监护人，难道我们不希望一点点经验能让他明白这是多么虚假和可悲的事情吗？”

‘We WILL hope so, my Esther,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘and that it may not teach him so too late. In any case we must not be hard on him. There are not many grown and matured men living while we speak, good men too, who if they were thrown into this same court as suitors would not be vitally changed and depreciated within three years—within two—within one. How can we stand amazed at poor Rick? A young man so unfortunate,’ here he fell into a lower tone, as if he were thinking aloud, ‘cannot at first believe (who could?) that Chancery is what it is. He looks to it, flushed and fitfully, to do something with his interests and bring them to some settlement. It procrastinates, disappoints, tries, tortures him; wears out his sanguine hopes and patience, thread by thread; but he still looks to it, and hankers after it, and finds his whole world treacherous and hollow. Well, well, well! Enough of this, my dear!’
“我们希望如此，我的埃丝特，”贾迪斯先生说，“这样他就不会受教得太晚了。”无论如何，我们不能对他太苛刻。在我们说话的时候，生活中没有多少成年和成熟的男人，也没有多少好男人，如果他们作为追求者被扔进同一个法庭，他们不会在三年内——两年内——一年内发生重大改变和贬值。我们怎能对可怜的瑞克感到惊讶呢？一个如此不幸的年轻人，”说到这里，他压低了语气，仿佛在自言自语，“一开始无法相信（谁能相信？） 大法官法庭就是这样的。他满脸通红、断断续续地期待着，为自己的利益做点什么，让他们达成某种解决方案。它拖延、失望、尝试、折磨他；一点一滴地耗尽了他乐观的希望和耐心；但他仍然仰望着它，渴望着它，却发现他的整个世界都是阴险而空洞的。好啦好啦！够了，亲爱的！

He had supported me, as at first, all this time, and his tenderness was so precious to me that I leaned my head upon his shoulder and loved him as if he had been my father. I resolved in my own mind in this little pause, by some means, to see Richard when I grew strong and try to set him right.
他一如既往地支持我，一直以来，他的温柔对我来说是如此珍贵，以至于我把头靠在他的肩膀上，爱他，就像他是我的父亲一样。在这短暂的停顿中，我暗下决心，当我变得坚强时，一定要设法去见理查德，并试图纠正他的错误。

‘There are better subjects than these,’ said my guardian, ‘for such a joyful time as the time of our dear girl’s recovery. And I had a commission to broach one of them as soon as I should begin to talk. When shall Ada come to see you, my love?’
“还有比这些更好的主题，”我的监护人说，“对于我们亲爱的女孩康复的时光来说，这是一个如此快乐的时光。”我接到委托，一开始讲话就立即提出其中的一个。艾达什么时候来看你，我的爱人？

I had been thinking of that too. A little in connexion with the absent mirrors, but not much, for I knew my loving girl would be changed by no change in my looks.
我也一直在想这个。与缺席的镜子有一点关系，但关系不大，因为我知道我心爱的女孩不会因我的外表改变而改变。

‘Dear guardian,’ said I, ‘as I have shut her out so long—though indeed, indeed, she is like the light to me—‘
“亲爱的监护人，”我说，“因为我已经把她拒之门外这么久了——尽管确实，确实，她对我来说就像光明——”

‘I know it well, Dame Durden, well.’
“我很清楚，德登夫人，嗯。”

He was so good, his touch expressed such endearing compassion and affection, and the tone of his voice carried such comfort into my heart that I stopped for a little while, quite unable to go on. ‘Yes, yes, you are tired,’ said he, ‘Rest a little.’
他太好了，他的触摸表达了那么可爱的同情和感情，他的语气给我的心里带来了那么大的安慰，让我停了下来，很无法继续说下去。 “是的，是的，你累了，”他说，“休息一下吧。”

‘As I have kept Ada out so long,’ I began afresh after a short while, ‘I think I should like to have my own way a little longer, guardian. It would be best to be away from here before I see her. If Charley and I were to go to some country lodging as soon as I can move, and if I had a week there in which to grow stronger and to be revived by the sweet air and to look forward to the happiness of having Ada with me again, I think it would be better for us.’
“因为我已经把艾达拒之门外这么久了，”过了一会儿我又开始说道，“我想我应该再按自己的方式行事，监护人。”在我见到她之前最好离开这里。如果我一可以搬家，查理和我就去乡间住处，如果我能在那里度过一周的时间，让自己变得更强壮，在甜美的空气中恢复活力，并期待着艾达和我在一起的幸福再说一遍，我认为这对我们来说会更好。”

I hope it was not a poor thing in me to wish to be a little more used to my altered self before I met the eyes of the dear girl I longed so ardently to see, but it is the truth. I did. He understood me, I was sure; but I was not afraid of that. If it were a poor thing, I knew he would pass it over.
我希望在见到我热切渴望见到的亲爱女孩的眼睛之前，希望能更习惯改变的自己，这对我来说并不是一件可怜的事情，但这是事实。我做到了。我确信他理解我；但我并不害怕。如果这是一件可怜的事情，我知道他会忽略它。

‘Our spoilt little woman,’ said my guardian, ‘shall have her own way even in her inflexibility, though at the price, I know, of tears downstairs. And see here! Here is Boythorn, heart of chivalry, breathing such ferocious vows as never were breathed on paper before, that if you don’t go and occupy his whole house, he having already turned out of it expressly for that purpose, by heaven and by earth he’ll pull it down and not leave one brick standing on another!’
“我们这个被宠坏的小女人，”我的监护人说，“即使她顽固不化，也应该按她自己的方式行事，尽管我知道，代价是在楼下流泪。”看到这里！这是博伊索恩，一颗骑士之心，他发出了前所未有的凶猛誓言，如果你不去占据他的整个房子，他已经为了这个目的而明确地从天上和地上离开了它他会把它推倒，而不是让一块砖立在另一块上！”

And my guardian put a letter in my hand, without any ordinary beginning such as ‘My dear Jarndyce,’ but rushing at once into the words, ‘I swear if Miss Summerson do not come down and take possession of my house, which I vacate for her this day at one o’clock, P.M.,’ and then with the utmost seriousness, and in the most emphatic terms, going on to make the extraordinary declaration he had quoted. We did not appreciate the writer the less for laughing heartily over it, and we settled that I should send him a letter of thanks on the morrow and accept his offer. It was a most agreeable one to me, for all the places I could have thought of, I should have liked to go to none so well as Chesney Wold.
我的监护人把一封信放在我手里，信的开头没有任何普通的开头，比如“我亲爱的贾迪斯”，而是立即插入这样的文字：“我发誓，如果萨默森小姐不下来占有我的房子，我就把它腾出来了。”今天下午一点，”然后以极其严肃的态度，以最有力的措辞，继续发表他所引用的非凡声明。我们对作者的开怀大笑并不感激，我们决定第二天给他写一封感谢信并接受他的提议。这对我来说是一个最令人愉快的地方，因为在我能想到的所有地方中，我最想去的地方就是切斯尼沃尔德。

‘Now, little housewife,’ said my guardian, looking at his watch, ‘I was strictly timed before I came upstairs, for you must not be tired too soon; and my time has waned away to the last minute. I have one other petition. Little Miss Flite, hearing a rumour that you were ill, made nothing of walking down here—twenty miles, poor soul, in a pair of dancing shoes—to inquire. It was heaven’s mercy we were at home, or she would have walked back again.’
“现在，小主妇，”我的监护人看了看手表，说道，“我在上楼之前已经严格计时了，因为你不能太早感到疲倦；我的时间已经到了最后一刻。我还有另一份请愿书。小弗利特小姐听说你病了，毫不犹豫地步行到这里来询问——可怜的灵魂，二十英里，穿着一双舞鞋。幸亏我们在家，不然她就又走回来了。”

The old conspiracy to make me happy! Everybody seemed to be in it!
老阴谋让我幸福！每个人似乎都身处其中！

‘Now, pet,’ said my guardian, ‘if it would not be irksome to you to admit the harmless little creature one afternoon before you save Boythorn’s otherwise devoted house from demolition, I believe you would make her prouder and better pleased with herself than I— though my eminent name is Jarndyce—could do in a lifetime.’
“现在，宠物，”我的监护人说，“如果在你拯救博伊索恩原本忠诚的房子免于拆除之前的一天下午承认这个无害的小生物对你来说不是令人厌烦的话，我相信你会让她比我更自豪和更满意自己我——尽管我的大名是贾迪斯——一生都可以做到。

I have no doubt he knew there would be something in the simple image of the poor afflicted creature that would fall like a gentle lesson on my mind at that time. I felt it as he spoke to me. I could not tell him heartily enough how ready I was to receive her. I had always pitied her, never so much as now. I had always been glad of my little power to soothe her under her calamity, but never, never, half so glad before.
我毫不怀疑他知道这个可怜的受苦生物的简单形象会像一个温柔的教训一样落在我的脑海里。当他对我说话时我感觉到了。我无法衷心地告诉他我已经准备好接待她了。我一直很可怜她，从来没有像现在这样。我一直很高兴自己能在她的灾难中安抚她的微薄之力，但以前从来没有，从来没有像现在这样高兴过。

We arranged a time for Miss Flite to come out by the coach and share my early dinner. When my guardian left me, I turned my face away upon my couch and prayed to be forgiven if I, surrounded by such blessings, had magnified to myself the little trial that I had to undergo. The childish prayer of that old birthday when I had aspired to be industrious, contented, and true-hearted and to do good to some one and win some love to myself if I could came back into my mind with a reproachful sense of all the happiness I had since enjoyed and all the affectionate hearts that had been turned towards me. If I were weak now, what had I profited by those mercies? I repeated the old childish prayer in its old childish words and found that its old peace had not departed from it.
我们安排了时间让弗利特小姐乘车出来和我一起吃早饭。当我的监护人离开我时，我把脸转向沙发上，祈祷如果我在这样的祝福包围下放大了自己必须经历的小考验，请得到宽恕。那个古老的生日的孩子气的祈祷，当时我渴望勤奋，满足，真诚，为某人做好事，为自己赢得一些爱，如果我能带着一种责备的幸福感回到我的脑海里从那时起，我就享受了所有转向我的深情之心。如果我现在软弱的话，那些怜悯对我有什么好处呢？我用幼稚的话语重复着古老的幼稚的祈祷，发现它古老的平静并没有离开它。

My guardian now came every day. In a week or so more I could walk about our rooms and hold long talks with Ada from behind the window-curtain. Yet I never saw her, for I had not as yet the courage to look at the dear face, though I could have done so easily without her seeing me.
我的监护人现在每天都来。大约一周后，我就可以在我们的房间里走来走去，并在窗帘后面与艾达进行长时间的交谈。然而我从来没有见过她，因为我还没有勇气去看那张可爱的脸，尽管我可以在没有她看到我的情况下轻松地做到这一点。

On the appointed day Miss Flite arrived. The poor little creature ran into my room quite forgetful of her usual dignity, and crying from her very heart of hearts, ‘My dear Fitz Jarndyce!’ fell upon my neck and kissed me twenty times.
弗利特小姐在约定的日子到来了。这个可怜的小东西完全忘记了她平时的尊严，跑进我的房间，从内心深处哭喊着：“我亲爱的菲茨·贾迪斯！”趴在我的脖子上，吻了我二十个。

‘Dear me!’ said she, putting her hand into her reticule, ‘I have nothing here but documents, my dear Fitz Jarndyce; I must borrow a pocket handkerchief.’
“天哪！”她把手伸进手提包里说道，“我这里除了文件什么也没有，亲爱的菲茨·贾迪斯；我必须借一块口袋手帕。

Charley gave her one, and the good creature certainly made use of it, for she held it to her eyes with both hands and sat so, shedding tears for the next ten minutes.
查理给了她一个，这个好心人当然利用了它，因为她用双手把它放在眼睛上，就这样坐着，在接下来的十分钟里流下了眼泪。

‘With pleasure, my dear Fitz Jarndyce,’ she was careful to explain. ‘Not the least pain. Pleasure to see you well again. Pleasure at having the honour of being admitted to see you. I am so much fonder of you, my love, than of the Chancellor. Though I DO attend court regularly. By the by, my dear, mentioning pocket handkerchiefs—‘
“很高兴，我亲爱的菲茨·贾迪斯，”她小心翼翼地解释道。 “一点也不痛苦。很高兴再次见到你一切安好。很高兴有幸获准与您会面。亲爱的，我比总理更喜欢你。尽管我确实定期出庭。顺便说一句，亲爱的，提到口袋手帕——”

Miss Flite here looked at Charley, who had been to meet her at the place where the coach stopped. Charley glanced at me and looked unwilling to pursue the suggestion.
弗利特小姐看着查理，后者本来是在马车停靠的地方迎接她的。查理看了我一眼，似乎不愿意采纳这个建议。

‘Ve-ry right!’ said Miss Flite, ‘Ve-ry correct. Truly! Highly indiscreet of me to mention it; but my dear Miss Fitz Jarndyce, I am afraid I am at times (between ourselves, you wouldn’t think it) a little—rambling you know,’ said Miss Flite, touching her forehead. ‘Nothing more,’
“非常正确！”弗利特小姐说，“非常正确。”真的！我提这件事真是太不检点了；但我亲爱的菲茨·贾迪斯小姐，恐怕我有时（我们之间，你不会这么想）有点——你知道，胡言乱语，”弗利特小姐摸着额头说道。 '而已，'

‘What were you going to tell me?’ said I, smiling, for I saw she wanted to go on. ‘You have roused my curiosity, and now you must gratify it.’
“你要告诉我什么？”我微笑着说道，因为我看出她还想继续说下去。 “你激起了我的好奇心，现在你必须满足它。”

Miss Flite looked at Charley for advice in this important crisis, who said, ‘If you please, ma’am, you had better tell then,’ and therein gratified Miss Flite beyond measure.
弗利特小姐在这场重要的危机中向查理寻求建议，后者说：“如果您愿意的话，女士，那么您最好告诉我。”弗利特小姐对此感到无比欣慰。

‘So sagacious, our young friend,’ said she to me in her mysterious way. ‘Diminutive. But ve-ry sagacious! Well, my dear, it’s a pretty anecdote. Nothing more. Still I think it charming. Who should follow us down the road from the coach, my dear, but a poor person in a very ungenteel bonnet—‘
“我们年轻的朋友，太聪明了。”她用她神秘的方式对我说。 ‘小个子。但非常睿智！嗯，亲爱的，这是一个非常有趣的轶事。而已。我仍然认为它很迷人。谁应该从马车上跟着我们走下去，亲爱的，但他是一个戴着非常不礼貌的帽子的穷人——”

‘Jenny, if you please, miss,’ said Charley.
“珍妮，请小姐，”查利说。

‘Just so!’ Miss Flite acquiesced with the greatest suavity. ‘Jenny. Ye-es! And what does she tell our young friend but that there has been a lady with a veil inquiring at her cottage after my dear Fitz Jarndyce’s health and taking a handkerchief away with her as a little keepsake merely because it was my amiable Fitz Jarndyce’s! Now, you know, so very prepossessing in the lady with the veil!’
“正是如此！”弗利特小姐极其和蔼地默许了。 ‘珍妮。是的！她告诉我们的年轻朋友，有一位戴着面纱的女士在她的小屋里询问我亲爱的菲茨·贾迪斯的健康状况，并带走了一块手帕作为小纪念品，仅仅因为那是我和蔼可亲的菲茨·贾迪斯的手帕！现在，你知道，戴面纱的女士非常迷人！”

‘If you please, miss,’ said Charley, to whom I looked in some astonishment, ‘Jenny says that when her baby died, you left a handkerchief there, and that she put it away and kept it with the baby’s little things. I think, if you please, partly because it was yours, miss, and partly because it had covered the baby.’
“请问，小姐，”查利说，我有些惊讶地看着他，“珍妮说，当她的孩子死后，你留下了一块手帕在那里，她把它收起来，和孩子的小东西放在一起。我想，如果你愿意的话，部分是因为它是你的，小姐，部分是因为它盖住了婴儿。

‘Diminutive,’ whispered Miss Flite, making a variety of motions about her own forehead to express intellect in Charley. ‘But exceedingly sagacious! And so dear! My love, she’s clearer than any counsel I ever heard!’
“个子很小。”弗利特小姐低声说道，一边在自己的前额上做了各种动作，以表达查理的聪明才智。 ‘但是非常有智慧！亲爱的！我的爱人，她比我听过的任何建议都清楚！

‘Yes, Charley,’ I returned. ‘I remember it. Well?’
“是的，查理，”我回答道。 '我记得。出色地？'

‘Well, miss,’ said Charley, ‘and that’s the handkerchief the lady took. And Jenny wants you to know that she wouldn’t have made away with it herself for a heap of money but that the lady took it and left some money instead. Jenny don’t know her at all, if you please, miss!’
“嗯，小姐，”查利说，“这就是那位女士拿的手帕。珍妮想让你知道，她自己不会为了一大笔钱而偷走它，而是那位女士拿走了它并留下了一些钱。珍妮根本不认识她，请问小姐！”

‘Why, who can she be?’ said I.
“为什么，她会是谁？”我问道。

‘My love,’ Miss Flite suggested, advancing her lips to my ear with her most mysterious look, ‘in MY opinion—don’t mention this to our diminutive friend—she’s the Lord Chancellor’s wife. He’s married, you know. And I understand she leads him a terrible life. Throws his lordship’s papers into the fire, my dear, if he won’t pay the jeweller!’
“我的爱人，”弗利特小姐建议道，用她最神秘的表情把嘴唇凑到我耳边，“在我看来——别向我们的小朋友提起这一点——她是大法官的妻子。他已经结婚了，你知道。我知道她让他过着糟糕的生活。亲爱的，如果他不付钱给珠宝商，就把勋爵的文件扔进火里！”

I did not think very much about this lady then, for I had an impression that it might be Caddy. Besides, my attention was diverted by my visitor, who was cold after her ride and looked hungry and who, our dinner being brought in, required some little assistance in arraying herself with great satisfaction in a pitiable old scarf and a much-worn and often-mended pair of gloves, which she had brought down in a paper parcel. I had to preside, too, over the entertainment, consisting of a dish of fish, a roast fowl, a sweetbread, vegetables, pudding, and Madeira; and it was so pleasant to see how she enjoyed it, and with what state and ceremony she did honour to it, that I was soon thinking of nothing else.
当时我并没有对这位女士想太多，因为我有一种印象，那就是凯迪。此外，我的注意力被我的访客转移了，她骑完车后很冷，看起来很饿，我们的晚餐送来后，她需要一些帮助才能非常满意地穿上一条可怜的旧围巾和一件经常磨损的衣服。 -修补了一双手套，她把它放在一个纸包裹里。我还必须主持娱乐活动，包括一盘鱼、一只烤鸡、一份牛杂碎、蔬菜、布丁和马德拉酒。看到她如此享受这一切，以及她以怎样的姿态和仪式来纪念这一切，我真是太高兴了，以至于我很快就不再考虑其他事情了。

When we had finished and had our little dessert before us, embellished by the hands of my dear, who would yield the superintendence of everything prepared for me to no one, Miss Flite was so very chatty and happy that I thought I would lead her to her own history, as she was always pleased to talk about herself. I began by saying ‘You have attended on the Lord Chancellor many years, Miss Flite?’
当我们吃完后，我们的小甜点摆在我们面前，由我亲爱的人亲手装饰，她不会把为我准备的一切交给任何人，弗利特小姐非常健谈和高兴，我想我会带她去她自己的历史，因为她总是很乐意谈论自己。我一开始就说：“弗利特小姐，你参加大法官会议已经很多年了？”

‘Oh, many, many, many years, my dear. But I expect a judgment. Shortly.’
‘噢，很多很多很多年了，亲爱的。但我期待一个判决。不久。'

There was an anxiety even in her hopefulness that made me doubtful if I had done right in approaching the subject. I thought I would say no more about it.
即使她的希望中也有一种焦虑，这让我怀疑我是否正确地处理了这个话题。我想我不会再多说了。

‘My father expected a judgment,’ said Miss Flite. ‘My brother. My sister. They all expected a judgment. The same that I expect.’
“我父亲期待着审判，”弗利特小姐说。 '我的兄弟。我的姐妹。他们都期待着审判。和我期望的一样。

‘They are all—‘
“他们都是——”

‘Ye-es. Dead of course, my dear,’ said she.
‘是的。当然死了，亲爱的，”她说。

As I saw she would go on, I thought it best to try to be serviceable to her by meeting the theme rather than avoiding it.
当我看到她会继续说下去时，我认为最好是通过满足主题而不是回避主题来尝试为她服务。

‘Would it not be wiser,’ said I, ‘to expect this judgment no more?’
“不再期待这样的审判，”我说，“不是更明智吗？”

‘Why, my dear,’ she answered promptly, ‘of course it would!’
“哎呀，亲爱的，”她立即回答，“当然会的！”

‘And to attend the court no more?’
“然后不再出庭吗？”

‘Equally of course,’ said she. ‘Very wearing to be always in expectation of what never comes, my dear Fitz Jarndyce! Wearing, I assure you, to the bone!’
“当然也一样，”她说。 “总是期待着永远不会发生的事情，真是太累人了，我亲爱的菲茨·贾迪斯！我向你保证，穿着到骨头里了！

She slightly showed me her arm, and it was fearfully thin indeed.
她轻轻地向我展示了她的手臂，它确实瘦得可怕。

‘But, my dear,’ she went on in her mysterious way, ‘there’s a dreadful attraction in the place. Hush! Don’t mention it to our diminutive friend when she comes in. Or it may frighten her. With good reason. There’s a cruel attraction in the place. You CAN’T leave it. And you MUST expect.’
“但是，亲爱的，”她以神秘的方式继续说道，“这个地方有一种可怕的吸引力。嘘！当我们的小朋友进来时，不要向她提起这件事。否则可能会吓到她。有充分的理由。这个地方有一种残酷的吸引力。你不能离开它。你必须期待。

I tried to assure her that this was not so. She heard me patiently and smilingly, but was ready with her own answer.
我试图向她保证事实并非如此。她耐心地微笑着听我说话，但也准备好了自己的答案。

‘Aye, aye, aye! You think so because I am a little rambling. Very absurd, to be a little rambling, is it not? Ve-ry confusing, too. To the head. I find it so. But, my dear, I have been there many years, and I have noticed. It’s the mace and seal upon the table.’
‘是啊，是啊，是啊！你这么认为是因为我有点胡言乱语。太荒唐了，有点胡言乱语，不是吗？也非常令人困惑。到头。我觉得是这样。但是，亲爱的，我已经在那里很多年了，我已经注意到了。这是桌子上的狼牙棒和印章。”

What could they do, did she think? I mildly asked her.
她想，他们能做什么呢？我温和地问她。

‘Draw,’ returned Miss Flite. ‘Draw people on, my dear. Draw peace out of them. Sense out of them. Good looks out of them. Good qualities out of them. I have felt them even drawing my rest away in the night. Cold and glittering devils!’
“画画，”弗利特小姐回答道。 “吸引人们，亲爱的。从他们身上汲取平安。从他们身上感觉到。他们看起来不错。他们身上都有良好的品质。我感觉到它们甚至在晚上剥夺了我的休息时间。冰冷而闪闪发光的魔鬼！

She tapped me several times upon the arm and nodded good-humouredly as if she were anxious I should understand that I had no cause to fear her, though she spoke so gloomily, and confided these awful secrets to me.
她在我的手臂上拍了几下，幽默地点点头，好像她很担心我会明白，我没有理由害怕她，尽管她说话的语气如此阴郁，并向我吐露了这些可怕的秘密。

‘Let me see,’ said she. ‘I’ll tell you my own case. Before they ever drew me—before I had ever seen them—what was it I used to do? Tambourine playing? No. Tambour work. I and my sister worked at tambour work. Our father and our brother had a builder’s business. We all lived together. Ve-ry respectably, my dear! First, our father was drawn—slowly. Home was drawn with him. In a few years he was a fierce, sour, angry bankrupt without a kind word or a kind look for any one. He had been so different, Fitz Jarndyce. He was drawn to a debtors’ prison. There he died. Then our brother was drawn—swiftly—to drunkenness. And rags. And death. Then my sister was drawn. Hush! Never ask to what! Then I was ill and in misery, and heard, as I had often heard before, that this was all the work of Chancery. When I got better, I went to look at the monster. And then I found out how it was, and I was drawn to stay there.’
“让我看看，”她说。 ‘我来告诉你我自己的例子。在他们吸引我之前——在我见到他们之前——我过去常常做什么？手鼓演奏？不，鼓手工作。我和姐姐从事手鼓工作。我们的父亲和兄弟经营一家建筑商生意。我们都住在一起。非常尊敬，亲爱的！首先，我们的父亲被吸引了——慢慢地。家被他吸引了。几年之内，他就变成了一个脾气暴躁、脾气暴躁、愤怒的破产者，对任何人都没有一句善意的话，也没有一个友善的眼神。菲茨·贾迪斯，他是如此与众不同。他被吸引到债务人监狱。他死在那里。然后我们的兄弟很快就醉了。还有破布。还有死亡。然后我妹妹就被吸引了。嘘！永远不要问什么！然后我病了，陷入了痛苦之中，并且正如我以前经常听到的那样，我听说这都是大法官办公室的工作。当我病情好转后，我去看怪物。然后我发现了它是怎么回事，我被吸引住在那里。

Having got over her own short narrative, in the delivery of which she had spoken in a low, strained voice, as if the shock were fresh upon her, she gradually resumed her usual air of amiable importance.
她用低沉、紧张的声音讲述了自己的简短叙述，仿佛刚刚受到了震惊，在克服了这一点后，她逐渐恢复了平常的和蔼可亲的态度。

‘You don’t quite credit me, my dear! Well, well! You will, some day. I am a little rambling. But I have noticed. I have seen many new faces come, unsuspicious, within the influence of the mace and seal in these many years. As my father’s came there. As my brother’s. As my sister’s. As my own. I hear Conversation Kenge and the rest of them say to the new faces, ‘Here’s little Miss Flite. Oh, you are new here; and you must come and be presented to little Miss Flite!’ Ve-ry good. Proud I am sure to have the honour! And we all laugh. But, Fitz Jarndyce, I know what will happen. I know, far better than they do, when the attraction has begun. I know the signs, my dear. I saw them begin in Gridley. And I saw them end. Fitz Jarndyce, my love,’ speaking low again, ‘I saw them beginning in our friend the ward in Jarndyce. Let some one hold him back. Or he’ll be drawn to ruin.
“你不太相信我，亲爱的！好吧！总有一天你会的。我有点胡言乱语。但我注意到了。这些年来，我看到许多新面孔在狼牙棒和海豹的影响下毫无疑心地出现。当我父亲来到那里时。就像我兄弟的一样。就像我姐姐的一样。作为我自己的。我听到对话肯格和其他人对新面孔说：‘这是小弗利特小姐。哦，你是新来的；你必须来并被介绍给小弗利特小姐！’很好。我很自豪，我一定有这个荣幸！我们都笑了。但是，菲茨·贾迪斯，我知道会发生什么。当吸引力开始时，我比他们更清楚。我知道这些迹象，亲爱的。我看到他们从格里德利开始。我看到他们结束了。菲茨·贾迪斯，我的爱人，”再次低声说道，“我看到他们从我们朋友贾迪斯的病房开始。让某人阻止他吧。否则他会被吸引走向毁灭。

She looked at me in silence for some moments, with her face gradually softening into a smile. Seeming to fear that she had been too gloomy, and seeming also to lose the connexion in her mind, she said politely as she sipped her glass of wine, ‘Yes, my dear, as I was saying, I expect a judgment shortly. Then I shall release my birds, you know, and confer estates.’
她沉默地看了我一会儿，脸上渐渐柔和了笑容。似乎是担心自己太过阴郁，也似乎失去了心灵的联系，她一边喝着酒，一边礼貌地说道：“是的，亲爱的，正如我所说，我很快就会得到审判。”然后我将释放我的鸟儿，你知道，并授予财产。

I was much impressed by her allusion to Richard and by the sad meaning, so sadly illustrated in her poor pinched form, that made its way through all her incoherence. But happily for her, she was quite complacent again now and beamed with nods and smiles.
她对理查德的暗示和悲伤的含义给我留下了深刻的印象，她可怜的捏着的身体如此悲伤地说明了这一点，这贯穿了她所有的语无伦次。但令她高兴的是，她现在又很自满了，微笑着点头。

‘But, my dear,’ she said, gaily, reaching another hand to put it upon mine. ‘You have not congratulated me on my physician. Positively not once, yet!’
“但是，亲爱的，”她高兴地说，伸出另一只手放在我的手上。 ‘你还没有祝贺我拥有我的医生。肯定还没有一次！

I was obliged to confess that I did not quite know what she meant.
我不得不承认我不太明白她的意思。

‘My physician, Mr. Woodcourt, my dear, who was so exceedingly attentive to me. Though his services were rendered quite gratuitously. Until the Day of Judgment. I mean THE judgment that will dissolve the spell upon me of the mace and seal.’
“亲爱的，我的医生伍德考特先生对我非常关心。尽管他的服务是无偿提供的。直到审判日。我指的是能够解除我身上的狼牙棒和封印咒语的审判。

‘Mr. Woodcourt is so far away, now,’ said I, ‘that I thought the time for such congratulation was past, Miss Flite.’
'先生。伍德考特现在离我们太远了，”我说，“我以为这样祝贺的时候已经过去了，弗利特小姐。”

‘But, my child,’ she returned, ‘is it possible that you don’t know what has happened?’
“但是，我的孩子，”她回答道，“你有可能不知道发生了什么事吗？”

‘No,’ said I.
“不，”我说。

‘Not what everybody has been talking of, my beloved Fitz Jarndyce!’
“不是每个人都在谈论的，我亲爱的菲茨·贾迪斯！”

‘No,’ said I. ‘You forget how long I have been here.’
“不，”我说，“你忘了我在这里呆了多久了。”

‘True! My dear, for the moment—true. I blame myself. But my memory has been drawn out of me, with everything else, by what I mentioned. Ve-ry strong influence, is it not? Well, my dear, there has been a terrible shipwreck over in those East Indian seas.’
'真的！亲爱的，目前来说——是的。我责怪自己。但我的记忆和其他一切都被我提到的事情带走了。影响力非常大，不是吗？好吧，亲爱的，东印度海域发生了一场可怕的沉船事故。

‘Mr. Woodcourt shipwrecked!’
'先生。伍德考特遭遇海难！”

‘Don’t be agitated, my dear. He is safe. An awful scene. Death in all shapes. Hundreds of dead and dying. Fire, storm, and darkness. Numbers of the drowning thrown upon a rock. There, and through it all, my dear physician was a hero. Calm and brave through everything. Saved many lives, never complained in hunger and thirst, wrapped naked people in his spare clothes, took the lead, showed them what to do, governed them, tended the sick, buried the dead, and brought the poor survivors safely off at last! My dear, the poor emaciated creatures all but worshipped him. They fell down at his feet when they got to the land and blessed him. The whole country rings with it. Stay! Where’s my bag of documents? I have got it there, and you shall read it, you shall read it!’
‘别激动，亲爱的。他很安全。可怕的一幕。死亡有各种形状。数百人死亡和垂死。火焰、风暴和黑暗。扔在岩石上溺水的人数。在那儿，经历了这一切，我亲爱的医生是一位英雄。冷静勇敢的面对一切。拯救了许多生命，从不抱怨饥饿和口渴，用他的备用衣服裹住赤身裸体的人，带头，告诉他们该做什么，统治他们，照顾病人，埋葬死者，最后把可怜的幸存者安全地带走！亲爱的，这些可怜的瘦弱生物几乎崇拜他。当他们到达那地时，他们就俯伏在他脚前祝福他。整个国家都随之响起。停留！我的文件袋在哪里？我已经拿到了，你应该读它，你应该读它！

And I DID read all the noble history, though very slowly and imperfectly then, for my eyes were so dimmed that I could not see the words, and I cried so much that I was many times obliged to lay down the long account she had cut out of the newspaper. I felt so triumphant ever to have known the man who had done such generous and gallant deeds, I felt such glowing exultation in his renown, I so admired and loved what he had done, that I envied the storm-worn people who had fallen at his feet and blessed him as their preserver. I could myself have kneeled down then, so far away, and blessed him in my rapture that he should be so truly good and brave. I felt that no one—mother, sister, wife—could honour him more than I. I did, indeed!
我确实读完了所有高贵的历史，尽管当时读得非常慢而且不完美，因为我的眼睛太暗了，看不清文字，而且我哭得很厉害，很多时候我不得不放下她剪下来的长篇大论。从报纸上出来。认识这个做出了如此慷慨和英勇事迹的人，我感到如此胜利，我对他的名声感到如此欣喜，我如此钦佩和热爱他的所作所为，以至于我羡慕那些在暴风雨中倒下的人们。并祝福他为他们的保护者。我当时真想在那么远的地方跪下来，欣喜若狂地祝福他，他真的是那么善良和勇敢。我觉得没有人——母亲、姐妹、妻子——能比我更尊敬他。我确实做到了！

My poor little visitor made me a present of the account, and when as the evening began to close in she rose to take her leave, lest she should miss the coach by which she was to return, she was still full of the shipwreck, which I had not yet sufflciently composed myself to understand in all its details.
我可怜的小客人把帐单送给了我一份礼物，当夜幕降临时，她起身告辞，以免错过返回的马车，她仍然满脑子都是沉船残骸，我还没有完全镇定下来，无法理解其中的所有细节。

‘My dear,’ said she as she carefully folded up her scarf and gloves, ‘my brave physician ought to have a title bestowed upon him. And no doubt he will. You are of that opinlon?’
“亲爱的，”她小心翼翼地折起围巾和手套，说道，“我勇敢的医生应该被授予一个称号。”毫无疑问他会的。你也这么认为吗？

That he well deserved one, yes. That he would ever have one, no.
他当之无愧，是的。他会拥有一个，不。

‘Why not, Fitz Jarndyce?’ she asked rather sharply.
“为什么不呢，菲茨·贾迪斯？”她尖锐地问道。

I said it was not the custom in England to confer titles on men distinguished by peaceful services, however good and great, unless occasionally when they consisted of the accumulation of some very large amount of money.
我说过，英国没有向因和平服务而杰出的人授予头衔的惯例，无论这些人多么优秀和伟大，除非偶尔积累了一些非常大的金钱。

‘Why, good gracious,’ said Miss Flite, ‘how can you say that? Surely you know, my dear, that all the greatest ornaments of England in knowledge, imagination, active humanity, and improvement of every sort are added to its nobility! Look round you, my dear, and consider. YOU must be rambling a little now, I think, if you don’t know that this is the great reason why titles will always last in the land!’
“哎呀，天哪，”弗利特小姐说，“你怎么能这么说呢？亲爱的，你当然知道，英国在知识、想象力、积极的人性和各种进步方面最伟大的装饰都增添了它的高贵！亲爱的，看看你的周围，并考虑一下。我想，如果你不知道这就是头衔在这片土地上永垂不朽的重要原因，你现在一定有点胡言乱语了！

I am afraid she believed what she said, for there were moments when she was very mad indeed.
我恐怕她相信自己所说的话，因为有时候她确实非常生气。

And now I must part with the little secret I have thus far tried to keep. I had thought, sometimes, that Mr. Woodcourt loved me and that if he had been richer he would perhaps have told me that he loved me before he went away. I had thought, sometimes, that if he had done so, I should have been glad of it. But how much better it was now that this had never happened! What should I have suffered if I had had to write to him and tell him that the poor face he had known as mine was quite gone from me and that I freely released him from his bondage to one whom he had never seen!
现在我必须放弃我迄今为止一直试图保守的小秘密了。有时我想，伍德考特先生爱我，如果他更富有的话，他也许会在离开之前告诉我他爱我。有时我想，如果他这么做了，我应该会感到高兴。但如果这件事从未发生过，那该多好啊！如果我不得不写信给他，告诉他，他所认识的那张可怜的脸已经从我身上消失了，而且我自由地把他从他从未见过的人的束缚中释放出来，我该承受多大的痛苦啊！

Oh, it was so much better as it was! With a great pang mercifully spared me, I could take back to my heart my childish prayer to be all he had so brightly shown himself; and there was nothing to be undone: no chain for me to break or for him to drag; and I could go, please God, my lowly way along the path of duty, and he could go his nobler way upon its broader road; and though we were apart upon the journey, I might aspire to meet him, unselfishly, innocently, better far than he had thought me when I found some favour in his eyes, at the journey’s end.
哦，原来这样好多了！仁慈地宽恕了我的巨大痛苦，我可以在心里收回我幼稚的祈祷，希望他能如此明亮地展示自己；没有什么是可以挽回的：没有锁链可以让我折断，也没有锁链可以让他拖拽；上帝啊，我可以沿着责任之路走我卑微的道路，而他可以在更宽阔的道路上走他更高尚的道路；尽管我们在旅途中分开，但我可能渴望无私、天真地见到他，比他想象的要好得多，当我在旅程结束时在他的眼中发现了一些青睐。

CHAPTER XXXVI
第三十六章


Chesney Wold
切斯尼沃尔德

Charley and I did not set off alone upon our expedition into Lincolnshire. My guardian had made up his mind not to lose sight of me until I was safe in Mr. Boythorn’s house, so he accompanied us, and we were two days upon the road. I found every breath of air, and every scent, and every flower and leaf and blade of grass, and every passing cloud, and everything in nature, more beautiful and wonderful to me than I had ever found it yet. This was my first gain from my illness. How little I had lost, when the wide world was so full of delight for me.
查理和我并不是独自出发去林肯郡探险的。我的监护人决定在我安全到达博伊索恩先生的房子之前不会失去我的视线，所以他陪着我们，我们在路上走了两天。我发现每一口空气、每一种气味、每一朵花、每一片叶子、每一片草叶、每一朵飘过的云彩，以及大自然中的一切，对我来说都比我以前发现的更加美丽和奇妙。这是我从病中得到的第一个收获。当广阔的世界对我来说如此充满欢乐时，我失去的却是多么少啊。

My guardian intending to go back immediately, we appointed, on our way down, a day when my dear girl should come. I wrote her a letter, of which he took charge, and he left us within half an hour of our arrival at our destination, on a delightful evening in the early summer-time.
我的监护人打算立即回去，我们在下山的路上指定了我亲爱的女儿应该回来的一天。我给她写了一封信，由他负责，在我们到达目的地后半小时内，他就离开了我们，那是初夏的一个愉快的夜晚。

If a good fairy had built the house for me with a wave of her wand, and I had been a princess and her favoured god-child, I could not have been more considered in it. So many preparations were made for me and such an endearing remembrance was shown of all my little tastes and likings that I could have sat down, overcome, a dozen times before I had revisited half the rooms. I did better than that, however, by showing them all to Charley instead. Charley’s delight calmed mine; and after we had had a walk in the garden, and Charley had exhausted her whole vocabulary of admiring expressions, I was as tranquilly happy as I ought to have been. It was a great comfort to be able to say to myself after tea, ‘Esther, my dear, I think you are quite sensible enough to sit down now and write a note of thanks to your host.’ He had left a note of welcome for me, as sunny as his own face, and had confided his bird to my care, which I knew to be his highest mark of confidence. Accordingly I wrote a little note to him in London, telling him how all his favourite plants and trees were looking, and how the most astonishing of birds had chirped the honours of the house to me in the most hospitable manner, and how, after singing on my shoulder, to the inconceivable rapture of my little maid, he was then at roost in the usual corner of his cage, but whether dreaming or no I could not report. My note finished and sent off to the post, I made myself very busy in unpacking and arranging; and I sent Charley to bed in good time and told her I should want her no more that night.
如果一位善良的仙女挥动魔杖为我建造了这座房子，而我是一位公主和她最宠爱的教子，那么我在其中就不会受到更多的考虑。为我做了那么多的准备，对我所有的小品味和喜好都表现出了如此可爱的记忆，以至于我可以坐下来克服，在我重新参观一半的房间之前十几次。然而，我做得更好，把它们全部展示给查理看。查理的喜悦让我平静下来。我们在花园里散步后，查理用尽了她所有的赞美表情，我就如我应有的那样平静地快乐了。喝茶后能够对自己说：“埃丝特，亲爱的，我认为你现在很明智，可以坐下来给你的主人写一封感谢信。”他留下了一张欢迎信，这是一种极大的安慰。对我来说，他就像他自己的脸一样阳光明媚，并将他的鸟​​托付给我照顾，我知道这是他信任的最高标志。因此，我在伦敦给他写了一张小纸条，告诉他所有他最喜欢的植物和树木的样子，最令人惊奇的鸟儿如何以最热情的方式向我鸣叫，以表示这座房子的荣誉，以及在歌唱之后如何令我的小女仆难以置信的是，它栖息在笼子的通常角落里，但无论是不是在做梦，我都无法报告。信写完了寄出去，我忙着拆包、整理；我及时送查理上床睡觉，并告诉她那天晚上我不再需要她了。

For I had not yet looked in the glass and had never asked to have my own restored to me. I knew this to be a weakness which must be overcome, but I had always said to myself that I would begin afresh when I got to where I now was. Therefore I had wanted to be alone, and therefore I said, now alone, in my own room, ‘Esther, if you are to be happy, if you are to have any right to pray to be truehearted, you must keep your word, my dear.’ I was quite resolved to keep it, but I sat down for a little while first to reflect upon all my blessings. And then I said my prayers and thought a little more.
因为我还没有看过镜子，也从未要求将自己的镜子归还给我。我知道这是一个必须克服的弱点，但我总是对自己说，当我到达现在的位置时，我会重新开始。因此我本来想一个人呆着，所以现在独自一人在我自己的房间里，我说：‘以斯帖，如果你想要幸福，如果你想要有权利真诚地祈祷，你就必须遵守诺言，我亲爱的。”我下定决心要保留它，但我先坐下来思考了一会儿我所有的祝福。然后我祈祷并想了一些。

My hair had not been cut off, though it had been in danger more than once. It was long and thick. I let it down, and shook it out, and went up to the glass upon the dressing-table. There was a little muslin curtain drawn across it. I drew it back and stood for a moment looking through such a veil of my own hair that I could see nothing else. Then I put my hair aside and looked at the reflection in the mirror, encouraged by seeing how placidly it looked at me. I was very much changed—oh, very, very much. At first my face was so strange to me that I think I should have put my hands before it and started back but for the encouragement I have mentioned. Very soon it became more familiar, and then I knew the extent of the alteration in it better than I had done at first. It was not like what I had expected, but I had expected nothing definite, and I dare say anything definite would have surprised me.
我的头发没有被剪掉，尽管它不止一次处于危险之中。它又长又粗。我把它放下来，抖了抖，然后走到梳妆台上的玻璃面前。上面拉着一块细布小窗帘。我把它拉回来，站了一会儿，透过我自己的头发看去，我什么也看不见。然后我把头发放在一边，看着镜子里的倒影，看到它如此平静地看着我，我深受鼓舞。我改变了很多——哦，非常非常。起初，我的脸对我来说是如此陌生，以至于我想如果没有我提到的鼓励，我应该把手放在它前面然后开始返回。很快它就变得更加熟悉了，然后我比一开始更了解它的改变程度。这与我的预期不同，但我没有预料到任何明确的事情，而且我敢说任何明确的事情都会让我感到惊讶。

I had never been a beauty and had never thought myself one, but I had been very different from this. It was all gone now. Heaven was so good to me that I could let it go with a few not bitter tears and could stand there arranging my hair for the night quite thankfully.
我从来都不是美女，也从来不认为自己是美女，但我与此截然不同。现在一切都消失了。上天对我太好了，我可以流下几滴不苦涩的泪水就让它过去，庆幸的是我可以站在那里整理我的头发过夜。

One thing troubled me, and I considered it for a long time before I went to sleep. I had kept Mr. Woodcourt’s flowers. When they were withered I had dried them and put them in a book that I was fond of. Nobody knew this, not even Ada. I was doubtful whether I had a right to preserve what he had sent to one so different—whether it was generous towards him to do it. I wished to be generous to him, even in the secret depths of my heart, which he would never know, because I could have loved him—could have been devoted to him. At last I came to the conclusion that I might keep them if I treasured them only as a remembrance of what was irrevocably past and gone, never to be looked back on any more, in any other light. I hope this may not seem trivial. I was very much in earnest.
有件事困扰着我，我想了很久才睡觉。我保留了伍德考特先生的花。当它们枯萎时，我把它们晒干，放在我喜欢的书里。没有人知道这一点，甚至艾达也不知道。我怀疑我是否有权保留他送给如此不同的人的东西——这样做对他是否慷慨。我希望对他慷慨，即使是在我内心深处，他永远不会知道，因为我本可以爱他，本可以为他奉献。最后我得出的结论是，如果我珍惜它们，只是为了纪念那些不可挽回的过去和逝去的事情，永远不再以任何其他角度回顾的话，我就可以保留它们。我希望这看起来不是微不足道的。我是非常认真的。

I took care to be up early in the morning and to be before the glass when Charley came in on tiptoe.
早上我小心翼翼地起得很早，当查理踮起脚尖进来时，我就站在玻璃前。

‘Dear, dear, miss!’ cried Charley, starting. ‘Is that you?’
“亲爱的，亲爱的，小姐！”查利惊叫道。 '那是你吗？'

‘Yes, Charley,’ said I, quietly putting up my hair. ‘And I am very well indeed, and very happy.’
“是的，查理，”我轻轻地盘起头发说道。 “我确实很好，也很高兴。”

I saw it was a weight off Charley’s mind, but it was a greater weight off mine. I knew the worst now and was composed to it. I shall not conceal, as I go on, the weaknesses I could not quite conquer, but they always passed from me soon and the happier frame of mind stayed by me faithfully.
我发现查理心里的负担减轻了，但我的负担更重了。我现在已经知道最坏的情况了，并且已经做好了应对的准备。在我继续前进的过程中，我不会隐瞒那些我无法完全克服的弱点，但它们总是很快就会从我身边消失，而快乐的心态会忠实地留在我身边。

Wishing to be fully re-established in my strength and my good spirits before Ada came, I now laid down a little series of plans with Charley for being in the fresh air all day long. We were to be out before breakfast, and were to dine early, and were to be out again before and after dinner, and were to talk in the garden after tea, and were to go to rest betimes, and were to climb every hill and explore every road, lane, and field in the neighbourhood. As to restoratives and strengthening delicacies, Mr. Boythorn’s good housekeeper was for ever trotting about with something to eat or drink in her hand; I could not even be heard of as resting in the park but she would come trotting after me with a basket, her cheerful face shining with a lecture on the importance of frequent nourishment. Then there was a pony expressly for my riding, a chubby pony with a short neck and a mane all over his eyes who could canter—when he would—so easily and quietly that he was a treasure. In a very few days he would come to me in the paddock when I called him, and eat out of my hand, and follow me about. We arrived at such a capital understanding that when he was jogging with me lazily, and rather obstinately, down some shady lane, if I patted his neck and said, ‘Stubbs, I am surprised you don’t canter when you know how much I like it; and I think you might oblige me, for you are only getting stupid and going to sleep,’ he would give his head a comical shake or two and set off directly, while Charley would stand still and laugh with such enjoyment that her laughter was like music. I don’t know who had given Stubbs his name, but it seemed to belong to him as naturally as his rough coat. Once we put him in a little chaise and drove him triumphantly through the green lanes for five miles; but all at once, as we were extolling him to the skies, he seemed to take it ill that he should have been accompanied so far by the circle of tantalizing little gnats that had been hovering round and round his ears the whole way without appearing to advance an inch, and stopped to think about it. I suppose he came to the decision that it was not to be borne, for he steadily refused to move until I gave the reins to Charley and got out and walked, when he followed me with a sturdy sort of good humour, putting his head under my arm and rubbing his ear against my sleeve. It was in vain for me to say, ‘Now, Stubbs, I feel quite sure from what I know of you that you will go on if I ride a little while,’ for the moment I left him, he stood stock still again. Consequently I was obliged to lead the way, as before; and in this order we returned home, to the great delight of the village.
我希望在艾达来之前能完全恢复体力和良好的精神状态，现在我和查理制定了一系列计划，以便整天呼吸新鲜空气。我们要在早餐前出去，要早点吃饭，要在晚饭前后再次出去，要喝完茶后在花园里聊天，要及时去休息，要爬上每座山丘，探索附近的每条道路、小巷和田野。至于恢复体力的美味佳肴，博伊索恩先生的好管家总是手里拿着吃的或喝的东西走来走去。我什至听不到我在公园里休息的消息，但她会提着篮子小跑着跟在我后面，她那张开朗的脸闪闪发光，讲述着经常补充营养的重要性。还有一匹专门供我骑乘的小马，一匹胖乎乎的小马，脖子很短，眼睛上长着鬃毛，它可以慢跑——当他愿意的时候——如此轻松、安静，以至于他是一个宝贝。几天之内，当我呼唤他时，他就会到围场来找我，从我手中接过食物，并跟着我走来走去。我们达成了如此重要的谅解，当他和我一起懒洋洋地、相当固执地沿着一条阴暗的小巷慢跑时，如果我拍拍他的脖子说：“斯塔布斯，我很惊讶你不慢跑，当你知道我有多少喜欢它;我想你可能会答应我，因为你只会变得愚蠢，然后去睡觉。”他会滑稽地摇一摇他的头，然后直接出发，而查理会一动不动地站着，开心地笑，她的笑声就像音乐。我不知道是谁给斯塔布斯起了这个名字，但这似乎就像他那件粗糙的外套一样自然地属于他。 有一次，我们把他放在一辆小马车上，胜利地开着他穿过绿色车道，行驶了五英里。但突然间，当我们把他捧到天上时，他似乎很不高兴，觉得自己竟然被一圈诱人的小蚊子陪伴着走这么远，这些小蚊子一直在他的耳朵周围盘旋，却没有表现出任何迹象。前进一寸，停下来思考。我猜想他已经决定不接受这件事了，因为他一直拒绝移动，直到我把缰绳交给查理，下车走路，他带着一种坚定的幽默感跟着我，把头埋在下面。我的手臂，他的耳朵在我的袖子上摩擦。我徒劳地说：“现在，斯塔布斯，根据我对你的了解，我很确定，如果我骑一会儿，你就会继续前进。”在我离开他的那一刻，他又一动不动地站着。因此，我不得不像以前一样带路。我们就这样按顺序回家了，全村人都高兴极了。

Charley and I had reason to call it the most friendly of villages, I am sure, for in a week’s time the people were so glad to see us go by, though ever so frequently in the course of a day, that there were faces of greeting in every cottage. I had known many of the grown people before and almost all the children, but now the very steeple began to wear a familiar and affectionate look. Among my new friends was an old old woman who lived in such a little thatched and whitewashed dwelling that when the outside shutter was turned up on its hinges, it shut up the whole house-front. This old lady had a grandson who was a sailor, and I wrote a letter to him for her and drew at the top of it the chimney-corner in which she had brought him up and where his old stool yet occupied its old place. This was considered by the whole village the most wonderful achievement in the world, but when an answer came back all the way from Plymouth, in which he mentioned that he was going to take the picture all the way to America, and from America would write again, I got all the credit that ought to have been given to the postoffice and was invested with the merit of the whole system.
我确信查理和我有理由称它为最友好的村庄，因为在一周的时间里，人们很高兴看到我们经过，尽管一天中如此频繁地出现，以至于有一些面孔每间小屋都问候。我以前认识很多成年人，也认识几乎所有的孩子，但现在这座尖塔开始呈现出熟悉而亲切的样子。我的新朋友中有一位老太太，她住在一间粉刷成白色的茅草小屋里，当外面的百叶窗在铰链上打开时，整个房子的正面都被关闭了。这位老太太有一个孙子，是一名水手，我替她给他写了一封信，并在信的顶部画了她抚养他长大的烟囱角，以及他的旧凳子还占据着原来的位置。这被全村人认为是世界上最了不起的成就，但是当从普利茅斯远道而来的答复中，他提到他要一路拍到美国，而从美国会写下我再次获得了应归于邮局的所有荣誉，并投入了整个系统的优点。

Thus, what with being so much in the air, playing with so many children, gossiping with so many people, sitting on invitation in so many cottages, going on with Charley’s education, and writing long letters to Ada every day, I had scarcely any time to think about that little loss of mine and was almost always cheerful. If I did think of it at odd moments now and then, I had only to be busy and forget it. I felt it more than I had hoped I should once when a child said, ‘Mother, why is the lady not a pretty lady now like she used to be?’ But when I found the child was not less fond of me, and drew its soft hand over my face with a kind of pitying protection in its touch, that soon set me up again. There were many little occurrences which suggested to me, with great consolation, how natural it is to gentle hearts to be considerate and delicate towards any inferiority. One of these particularly touched me. I happened to stroll into the little church when a marriage was just concluded, and the young couple had to sign the register.
因此，在这么多的空气中，和这么多的孩子一起玩耍，和这么多的人闲聊，应邀坐在这么多的小屋里，继续查理的教育，每天给艾达写长信，我几乎没有什么可做的。每当想起我所失去的那点小事时，我都会感到很高兴。如果我确实偶尔想起这件事，我也只能忙着忘记它。有一次，当一个孩子说：“妈妈，为什么这位女士现在不再像以前那样漂亮了？”时，我的感受比我希望的还要强烈。它柔软的手抚过我的脸，触摸中带着一种怜悯的保护，很快我又恢复了活力。有许多小事让我感到极大的安慰，这让我意识到，温柔的心对任何自卑感都表现得体贴和敏感是多么自然的事情。其中有一件特别让我感动。我偶然走进小教堂，当时正值一场婚礼刚刚结束，年轻夫妇要在登记册上签字。

The bridegroom, to whom the pen was handed first, made a rude cross for his mark; the bride, who came next, did the same. Now, I had known the bride when I was last there, not only as the prettiest girl in the place, but as having quite distinguished herself in the school, and I could not help looking at her with some surprise. She came aside and whispered to me, while tears of honest love and admiration stood in her bright eyes, ‘He’s a dear good fellow, miss; but he can’t write yet—he’s going to learn of me—and I wouldn’t shame him for the world!’ Why, what had I to fear, I thought, when there was this nobility in the soul of a labouring man’s daughter!
新郎是第一个收到笔的人，他粗鲁地画了一个十字，作为自己的记号。接下来的新娘也做了同样的事情。现在，我上次来的时候就认识新娘了，她不仅是当地最漂亮的女孩，而且在学校里也很出名，我不禁有些惊讶地看着她。她走到一旁，对我低声说道，她明亮的眼睛里充满了真诚的爱和钦佩的泪水，“他是一个亲爱的好人，小姐；他是个好人。”但他还不会写——他要向我学习——我不会让他蒙羞！”哎呀，我想，当一个劳动人民的灵魂里有这种高贵的时候，我还有什么好害怕的呢？女儿！

The air blew as freshly and revivingly upon me as it had ever blown, and the healthy colour came into my new face as it had come into my old one. Charley was wonderful to see, she was so radiant and so rosy; and we both enjoyed the whole day and slept soundly the whole night.
空气一如既往地清新、充满活力，健康的色彩出现在我的新脸上，就像它出现在我的旧脸上一样。看到查理真是太棒了，她容光焕发，脸色红润。我们都度过了愉快的一天，并且睡了一整夜。

There was a favourite spot of mine in the park-woods of Chesney Wold where a seat had been erected commanding a lovely view. The wood had been cleared and opened to improve this point of sight, and the bright sunny landscape beyond was so beautiful that I rested there at least once every day. A picturesque part of the Hall, called the Ghost’s Walk, was seen to advantage from this higher ground; and the startling name, and the old legend in the Dedlock family which I had heard from Mr. Boythorn accounting for it, mingled with the view and gave it something of a mysterious interest in addition to its real charms. There was a bank here, too, which was a famous one for violets; and as it was a daily delight of Charley’s to gather wild flowers, she took as much to the spot as I did.
在切斯尼沃尔德的公园树林里有一个我最喜欢的地方，那里竖起了一个座位，可以欣赏到美丽的景色。树林已被清理并打开，以改善视野，远处阳光明媚的风景是如此美丽，我每天至少在那里休息一次。大厅中有一个风景如画的部分，称为“幽灵步道”，地势较高，可以说是有利的。这个令人吃惊的名字，以及我从博伊索恩先生那里听来的戴德洛克家族的古老传说，与这景色融为一体，除了真正的魅力之外，还给它带来了一些神秘的趣味。这里还有一家银行，以紫罗兰闻名。由于采摘野花是查理每天的一大乐趣，所以她和我一样带了很多野花。

It would be idle to inquire now why I never went close to the house or never went inside it. The family were not there, I had heard on my arrival, and were not expected. I was far from being incurious or uninterested about the building; on the contrary, I often sat in this place wondering how the rooms ranged and whether any echo like a footstep really did resound at times, as the story said, upon the lonely Ghost’s Walk. The indefinable feeling with which Lady Dedlock had impressed me may have had some influence in keeping me from the house even when she was absent. I am not sure. Her face and figure were associated with it, naturally; but I cannot say that they repelled me from it, though something did. For whatever reason or no reason, I had never once gone near it, down to the day at which my story now arrives.
现在问我为什么从来没有走近那所房子，或者从来没有进去过，是毫无意义的。我到达时就听说他们的家人不在，这也是我预料之外的事情。我对这座建筑并非不感兴趣。相反，我经常坐在这个地方，想知道房间的分布情况，以及是否真的像故事中所说的那样，在孤独的鬼道上有时会响起像脚步声这样的回声。戴德洛克夫人给我留下的难以言表的感觉可能对我产生了某种影响，即使她不在，我也无法到家中去。我不知道。她的脸和身材自然与它联系在一起。但我不能说他们排斥我，尽管有些东西确实排斥了我。不管出于什么原因，或者没有任何原因，直到我的故事现在到来的那一天，我从来没有靠近过它。

I was resting at my favourite point after a long ramble, and Charley was gathering violets at a little distance from me. I had been looking at the Ghost’s Walk lying in a deep shade of masonry afar off and picturing to myself the female shape that was said to haunt it when I became aware of a figure approaching through the wood. The perspective was so long and so darkened by leaves, and the shadows of the branches on the ground made it so much more intricate to the eye, that at first I could not discern what figure it was. By little and little it revealed itself to be a woman’s—a lady’s—Lady Dedlock’s. She was alone and coming to where I sat with a much quicker step, I observed to my surprise, than was usual with her.
经过长时间的漫步后，我正在我最喜欢的地方休息，查理正在离我不远的地方采摘紫罗兰。我一直看着远处砖石深处的幽灵步道，想象着据说出没于其中的女性身影，这时我意识到一个人影穿过树林走近。视野太长，被树叶遮得又暗，加上地面上树枝的影子，显得更加错综复杂，一开始我看不出那是什么人影。渐渐地，它显露出来是一个女人的——一位女士的——戴德洛克夫人的。我惊讶地发现，她独自一人来到我坐的地方，脚步比平常快得多。

I was fluttered by her being unexpectedly so near (she was almost within speaking distance before I knew her) and would have risen to continue my walk. But I could not. I was rendered motionless. Not so much by her hurried gesture of entreaty, not so much by her quick advance and outstretched hands, not so much by the great change in her manner and the absence of her haughty self-restraint, as by a something in her face that I had pined for and dreamed of when I was a little child, something I had never seen in any face, something I had never seen in hers before.
她出乎意料地离我如此之近，让我心慌意乱（在我认识她之前，她几乎就在说话的距离之内），我想站起来继续散步。但我不能。我一动不动。与其说是因为她匆忙的恳求姿态，不如说是因为她迅速走上前并伸出了双手，与其说是因为她态度的巨大变化和她傲慢的自我克制的缺失，不如说是因为她脸上的某种东西让我无法理解。当我还是个小孩子的时候，我就曾渴望和梦想过，这是我从未在任何人的脸上看到过的东西，也是我以前从未在她的脸上看到过的东西。

A dread and faintness fell upon me, and I called to Charley. Lady Dedlock stopped upon the instant and changed back almost to what I had known her.
一种恐惧和晕眩袭上我的心头，我呼唤查理。戴德洛克夫人立刻停了下来，几乎变回了我所认识的样子。

‘Miss Summerson, I am afraid I have startled you,’ she said, now advancing slowly. ‘You can scarcely be strong yet. You have been very ill, I know. I have been much concerned to hear it.’
“萨默森小姐，恐怕我吓到了你，”她一边说，一边慢慢地向前走去。 ‘你还很难变得坚强。我知道你病得很重。听到这个消息我很担心。

I could no more have removed my eyes from her pale face than I could have stirred from the bench on which I sat. She gave me her hand, and its deadly coldness, so at variance with the enforced composure of her features, deepened the fascination that overpowered me. I cannot say what was in my whirling thoughts.
我无法将目光从她苍白的脸上移开，就像我无法从我所坐的长凳上站起来一样。她向我伸出了手，那手的冰冷与她强行镇定的神情格格不入，加深了我的迷恋。我无法说出我内心的想法。

‘You are recovering again?’ she asked kindly.
“你康复了吗？”她友善地问道。

‘I was quite well but a moment ago, Lady Dedlock.’
“刚才我还很好，戴德洛克夫人。”

‘Is this your young attendant?’
“这是你的小侍从吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Will you send her on before and walk towards your house with me?’
“你可以先送她一起去你家吗？”

‘Charley,’ said I, ‘take your flowers home, and I will follow you directly.’
“查理，”我说，“把你的花带回家，我会直接跟着你。”

Charley, with her best curtsy, blushingly tied on her bonnet and went her way. When she was gone, Lady Dedlock sat down on the seat beside me.
查莉行了她最好的屈膝礼，红着脸戴上了帽子，走开了。她走后，戴德洛克夫人在我旁边的座位上坐下。

I cannot tell in any words what the state of my mind was when I saw in her hand my handkerchief with which I had covered the dead baby.
当我看到她手里拿着我用来盖死婴儿的手帕时，我无法用任何言语表达我的心情。

I looked at her, but I could not see her, I could not hear her, I could not draw my breath. The beating of my heart was so violent and wild that I felt as if my life were breaking from me. But when she caught me to her breast, kissed me, wept over me, compassionated me, and called me back to myself; when she fell down on her knees and cried to me, ‘Oh, my child, my child, I am your wicked and unhappy mother! Oh, try to forgive me!’—when I saw her at my feet on the bare earth in her great agony of mind, I felt, through all my tumult of emotion, a burst of gratitude to the providence of God that I was so changed as that I never could disgrace her by any trace of likeness, as that nobody could ever now look at me and look at her and remotely think of any near tie between us.
我看着她，但我看不到她，听不到她的声音，我无法呼吸。我的心脏跳动得如此剧烈和狂野，以至于我感觉我的生命正在与我分离。但当她把我抱在怀里，亲吻我，为我哭泣，同情我，让我清醒过来时；当她跪下向我哭喊时，‘哦，我的孩子，我的孩子，我是你邪恶而不幸的母亲！哦，试着原谅我吧！”——当我看到她在我的脚下，站在光秃秃的土地上，内心极度痛苦时，我在激动的情绪中，突然对上帝的眷顾感到一阵感激，因为上帝让我如此幸运。改变是因为我永远不会因为任何相似的痕迹而羞辱她，因为现在没有人会在看着我和她的时候远远地想到我们之间有任何密切的联系。

I raised my mother up, praying and beseeching her not to stoop before me in such affliction and humiliation. I did so in broken, incoherent words, for besides the trouble I was in, it frightened me to see her at MY feet. I told her—or I tried to tell her—that if it were for me, her child, under any circumstances to take upon me to forgive her, I did it, and had done it, many, many years. I told her that my heart overflowed with love for her, that it was natural love which nothing in the past had changed or could change. That it was not for me, then resting for the first time on my mother’s bosom, to take her to account for having given me life, but that my duty was to bless her and receive her, though the whole world turned from her, and that I only asked her leave to do it. I held my mother in my embrace, and she held me in hers, and among the still woods in the silence of the summer day there seemed to be nothing but our two troubled minds that was not at peace.
我把母亲扶了起来，祈祷并恳求她不要在我面前如此痛苦和屈辱。我用断断续续、语无伦次的语言这样做了，因为除了我遇到的麻烦之外，看到她站在我的脚下也让我感到害怕。我告诉她——或者我试图告诉她——如果我，她的孩子，在任何情况下都愿意原谅她，我就会这么做，而且已经做了很多很多年了。我告诉她，我的心里充满了对她的爱，这是自然的爱，过去没有任何事情可以改变，也无法改变。那时我第一次躺在母亲的怀抱里，并不是因为她赋予了我生命，而是我的责任是祝福她并接纳她，尽管整个世界都背弃了她，我只是请她允许这样做。我把母亲搂在怀里，她也把我搂在怀里，夏日寂静的树林里，除了我们两个不安的心，似乎什么也没有。

‘To bless and receive me,’ groaned my mother, ‘it is far too late. I must travel my dark road alone, and it will lead me where it will. From day to day, sometimes from hour to hour, I do not see the way before my guilty feet. This is the earthly punishment I have brought upon myself. I bear it, and I hide it.’
“祝福并接待我，”母亲呻吟道，“已经太晚了。”我必须独自走完我的黑暗之路，它会带我去往它想去的地方。日复一日，有时一小时又一小时，我都看不到我罪恶的脚前的路。这就是我给自己带来的尘世惩罚。我承受它，我隐藏它。

Even in the thinking of her endurance, she drew her habitual air of proud indifference about her like a veil, though she soon cast it off again.
即使想到她的忍耐力，她还是把惯常的傲慢冷漠的神态像一层面纱一样包裹在身上，尽管她很快又把它脱掉了。

‘I must keep this secret, if by any means it can be kept, not wholly for myself. I have a husband, wretched and dishonouring creature that I am!’
“如果可以以任何方式保守这个秘密，我必须保守这个秘密，但不能完全为我自己保守。”我有一个丈夫，而我就是一个可怜又丢人的家伙！

These words she uttered with a suppressed cry of despair, more terrible in its sound than any shriek. Covering her face with her hands, she shrank down in my embrace as if she were unwilling that I should touch her; nor could I, by my utmost persuasions or by any endearments I could use, prevail upon her to rise. She said, no, no, no, she could only speak to me so; she must be proud and disdainful everywhere else; she would be humbled and ashamed there, in the only natural moments of her life.
她说这句话时，带着压抑的绝望呼喊，声音比任何尖叫声都更可怕。她用手捂住脸，缩在我的怀里，似乎不愿意我碰她。我也无法用我最大的说服力或我能用的任何爱意说服她站起来。她说，不不不，她只能这样对我说话；她在其他地方一定是骄傲而轻蔑的；在她生命中唯一自然的时刻，她会在那里感到谦卑和羞愧。

My unhappy mother told me that in my illness she had been nearly frantic. She had but then known that her child was living. She could not have suspected me to be that child before. She had followed me down here to speak to me but once in all her life. We never could associate, never could communicate, never probably from that time forth could interchange another word on earth. She put into my hands a letter she had written for my reading only and said when I had read it and destroyed it—but not so much for her sake, since she asked nothing, as for her husband’s and my own—I must evermore consider her as dead. If I could believe that she loved me, in this agony in which I saw her, with a mother’s love, she asked me to do that, for then I might think of her with a greater pity, imagining what she suffered. She had put herself beyond all hope and beyond all help. Whether she preserved her secret until death or it came to be discovered and she brought dishonour and disgrace upon the name she had taken, it was her solitary struggle always; and no affection could come near her, and no human creature could render her any aid.
我不高兴的母亲告诉我，在我生病的时候，她几乎要发疯了。她当时才知道她的孩子还活着。她以前不可能怀疑我就是那个孩子。她跟着我到这里来跟我说话，但这辈子只有一次。我们永远无法交往，永远无法交流，从那时起，我们可能永远无法在地球上互换另一个词。她把一封她写的信交给我，仅供我阅读，并说当我读完这封信后，她就把它销毁了——但与其说是为了她，因为她什么也没问，不如说是为了她丈夫和我自己的——我必须永远考虑她就像死了一样。如果我能相信她爱我，在我看到她的痛苦中，带着母爱，她要求我这样做，因为那样我可能会更加怜悯地想到她，想象她所遭受的痛苦。她已经让自己失去了一切希望和帮助。无论她将自己的秘密保守到死，还是被发现，让她所取的名字蒙羞，这始终是她孤独的斗争；没有任何感情可以靠近她，也没有任何人类可以向她提供任何帮助。

‘But is the secret safe so far?’ I asked. ‘Is it safe now, dearest mother?’
“但是到目前为止这个秘密安全吗？”我问道。 “现在安全吗，最亲爱的妈妈？”

‘No,’ replied my mother. ‘It has been very near discovery. It was saved by an accident. It may be lost by another accident—tomorrow, any day.’
“不，”我母亲回答道。 ‘它已经非常接近被发现了。一次意外得救了。它可能会因另一次事故而丢失——明天，任何一天。

‘Do you dread a particular person?’
“你害怕某个特定的人吗？”

‘Hush! Do not tremble and cry so much for me. I am not worthy of these tears,’ said my mother, kissing my hands. ‘I dread one person very much.’
‘嘘！不要为我颤抖和哭泣。我不值得流这些眼泪。”母亲亲吻我的手说道。 “我非常害怕一个人。”

‘An enemy?’
“敌人？”

‘Not a friend. One who is too passionless to be either. He is Sir Leicester Dedlock’s lawyer, mechanically faithful without attachment, and very jealous of the profit, privilege, and reputation of being master of the mysteries of great houses.’
‘不是朋友。一个太冷漠的人，不可能是其中之一。他是莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士的律师，机械地忠诚而没有依恋，并且非常嫉妒成为大家族之谜主人的利润、特权和声誉。

‘Has he any suspicions?’
“他有什么怀疑吗？”

‘Many.’
'许多。'

‘Not of you?’ I said alarmed.
“不是你吗？”我惊恐地说。

‘Yes! He is always vigilant and always near me. I may keep him at a standstill, but I can never shake him off.’
'是的！他总是很警惕，总是靠近我。我可能会让他停滞不前，但我永远无法摆脱他。

‘Has he so little pity or compunction?’
“他就这么少有怜悯或内疚吗？”

‘He has none, and no anger. He is indifferent to everything but his calling. His calling is the acquisition of secrets and the holding possession of such power as they give him, with no sharer or opponent in it.’
‘他没有，也没有愤怒。除了他的使命之外，他对一切都漠不关心。他的使命是获取秘密并拥有秘密赋予他的权力，没有分享者或对手。

‘Could you trust in him?’
“你能相信他吗？”

‘I shall never try. The dark road I have trodden for so many years will end where it will. I follow it alone to the end, whatever the end be. It may be near, it may be distant; while the road lasts, nothing turns me.’
‘我永远不会尝试。我走了这么多年的黑暗路，也到了该结束的时候了。我独自追随它到底，无论结局如何。可能近，也可能远；当路还长的时候，没有什么能让我兴奋。”

‘Dear mother, are you so resolved?’
“亲爱的妈妈，你就这么决心吗？”

‘I AM resolved. I have long outbidden folly with folly, pride with pride, scorn with scorn, insolence with insolence, and have outlived many vanities with many more. I will outlive this danger, and outdie it, if I can. It has closed around me almost as awfully as if these woods of Chesney Wold had closed around the house, but my course through it is the same. I have but one; I can have but one.’
‘我已经下定决心了。长期以来，我一直在以愚昧战胜愚昧，以骄傲战胜骄傲，以蔑视战胜蔑视，以傲慢战胜傲慢，并以更多的方式战胜虚荣。如果可以的话，我会战胜这种危险，并战胜它。它几乎将我包围起来，就像切斯尼森林的树林包围了房子一样可怕，但我穿过它的路线是一样的。我只有一个；我只能拥有一个。

‘Mr. Jarndyce—‘ I was beginning when my mother hurriedly inquired, ‘Does HE suspect?’
'先生。贾迪斯——“我刚开始，我妈妈就急忙问道，‘他怀疑吗？’

‘No,’ said I. ‘No, indeed! Be assured that he does not!’ And I told her what he had related to me as his knowledge of my story. ‘But he is so good and sensible,’ said I, ‘that perhaps if he knew—‘
“不，”我说，“确实不！”请放心，他不会！”我告诉她他对我的了解，即他对我故事的了解。 “但他是如此善良和明智，”我说，“也许如果他知道——”

My mother, who until this time had made no change in her position, raised her hand up to my lips and stopped me.
母亲一直没有改变立场，她把手举到我的唇边，阻止了我。

‘Confide fully in him,’ she said after a little while. ‘You have my free consent—a small gift from such a mother to her injured child!but do not tell me of it. Some pride is left in me even yet.’
“完全相信他，”过了一会儿她说道。 “你得到了我的自由同意——这样一位母亲给她受伤的孩子的一份小礼物！但不要告诉我。我心里还残留着一些自豪感。

I explained, as nearly as I could then, or can recall now—for my agitation and distress throughout were so great that I scarcely understood myself, though every word that was uttered in the mother’s voice, so unfamiliar and so melancholy to me, which in my childhood I had never learned to love and recognize, had never been sung to sleep with, had never heard a blessing from, had never had a hope inspired by, made an enduring impression on my memory—I say I explained, or tried to do it, how I had only hoped that Mr. Jarndyce, who had been the best of fathers to me, might be able to afford some counsel and support to her. But my mother answered no, it was impossible; no one could help her. Through the desert that lay before her, she must go alone.
我尽我所能地解释，或者现在能回忆起来——因为我自始至终都如此激动和痛苦，以至于我几乎听不懂自己的意思，尽管母亲的声音中所说的每一个字对我来说都是如此陌生和如此忧郁，在我的童年里，我从未学会爱和认识，从未被唱歌入睡，从未听过祝福，从未激发过希望，在我的记忆中留下持久的印象——我说我解释过，或者尝试过为了做到这一点，我多么希望贾迪斯先生，他对我来说是最好的父亲，能够为她提供一些建议和支持。但妈妈的回答是不，不可能；没有人能帮助她。穿越面前的沙漠，她必须独自前行。

‘My child, my child!’ she said. ‘For the last time! These kisses for the last time! These arms upon my neck for the last time! We shall meet no more. To hope to do what I seek to do, I must be what I have been so long. Such is my reward and doom. If you hear of Lady Dedlock, brilliant, prosperous, and flattered, think of your wretched mother, conscience-stricken, underneath that mask! Think that the reality is in her suffering, in her useless remorse, in her murdering within her breast the only love and truth of which it is capable! And then forgive her if you can, and cry to heaven to forgive her, which it never can!’
“我的孩子，我的孩子！”她说。 '最后一次！这是最后一次吻了！这是最后一次用手臂搭在我的脖子上！我们不会再见面了。为了希望做我想做的事，我必须成为我长期以来的样子。这就是我的奖赏和厄运。如果你听说过戴德洛克夫人，她才华横溢，富有，受宠若惊，想想你可怜的母亲，在面具下，良心受到打击！想想现实就在她的痛苦中，在她无用的悔恨中，在她胸中谋杀了她所能拥有的唯一的爱和真理！然后如果可以的话就原谅她，向天堂哭诉以原谅她，但它永远做不到！

We held one another for a little space yet, but she was so firm that she took my hands away, and put them back against my breast, and with a last kiss as she held them there, released them, and went from me into the wood. I was alone, and calm and quiet below me in the sun and shade lay the old house, with its terraces and turrets, on which there had seemed to me to be such complete repose when I first saw it, but which now looked like the obdurate and unpitying watcher of my mother’s misery.
我们还互相拥抱了一会儿，但她太坚定了，她把我的手拿开，放回我的胸前，最后一个吻，她握着它们，松开它们，从我身边进入了我的世界。木头。我独自一人，在阳光和树荫下，我脚下那座老房子平静而安静，有露台和塔楼，当我第一次看到它时，我觉得它是如此完全的休息，但现在看起来就像顽固而无情地注视着我母亲的苦难。

Stunned as I was, as weak and helpless at first as I had ever been in my sick chamber, the necessity of guarding against the danger of discovery, or even of the remotest suspicion, did me service. I took such precautions as I could to hide from Charley that I had been crying, and I constrained myself to think of every sacred obligation that there was upon me to be careful and collected. It was not a little while before I could succeed or could even restrain bursts of grief, but after an hour or so I was better and felt that I might return. I went home very slowly and told Charley, whom I found at the gate looking for me, that I had been tempted to extend my walk after Lady Dedlock had left me and that I was over-tired and would lie down. Safe in my own room, I read the letter. I clearly derived from it—and that was much then—that I had not been abandoned by my mother. Her elder and only sister, the godmother of my childhood, discovering signs of life in me when I had been laid aside as dead, had in her stern sense of duty, with no desire or willingness that I should live, reared me in rigid secrecy and had never again beheld my mother’s face from within a few hours of my birth. So strangely did I hold my place in this world that until within a short time back I had never, to my own mother’s knowledge, breathed—had been buried—had never been endowed with life—had never borne a name. When she had first seen me in the church she had been startled and had thought of what would have been like me if it had ever lived, and had lived on, but that was all then.
尽管我很震惊，一开始就像我在病房里一样虚弱无助，但必须防范被发现的危险，甚至是最轻微的怀疑，这对我很有帮助。我采取了尽可能多的预防措施，向查理隐瞒我一直在哭，我强迫自己思考我所肩负的每一项神圣义务，要小心谨慎，镇定自若。没过多久我就成功了，甚至可以抑制住阵阵悲伤，但一个小时左右后，我就好了，觉得我可能会回来。我慢慢地回家，告诉查理，我发现他在门口找我，在戴德洛克夫人离开我之后，我一直想延长步行时间，而且我太累了，会躺下来。我在自己的房间里安全地读了这封信。我清楚地从中得出——当时就这样——我并没有被母亲抛弃。她唯一的姐姐，我童年的教母，当我被当作死人放在一边时，她发现了我的生命迹象，她以她严厉的责任感，没有欲望或意愿让我活下去，严格保密地抚养我长大。在我出生后的几个小时内，我再也没有见过我母亲的脸。奇怪的是，我在这个世界上占据着自己的位置，直到不久之前，据我母亲所知，我从未呼吸过——被埋葬过——从未被赋予生命——从未有过名字。当她第一次在教堂里看到我时，她吃了一惊，想到如果它曾经存在过，并且一直存在下去，会是什么样子，但仅此而已。

What more the letter told me needs not to be repeated here. It has its own times and places in my story.
信中所告诉我的更多内容无需在此重复。它在我的故事中有自己的时间和地点。

My first care was to burn what my mother had written and to consume even its ashes. I hope it may not appear very unnatural or bad in me that I then became heavily sorrowful to think I had ever been reared. That I felt as if I knew it would have been better and happier for many people if indeed I had never breathed. That I had a terror of myself as the danger and the possible disgrace of my own mother and of a proud family name. That I was so confused and shaken as to be possessed by a belief that it was right and had been intended that I should die in my birth, and that it was wrong and not intended that I should be then alive.
我首先关心的是烧掉母亲写下的东西，甚至烧掉它的灰烬。我希望，当我想到自己曾经被抚养长大时，我变得非常悲伤，这对我来说不会显得非常不自然或糟糕。我感觉好像我知道，如果我确实从未呼吸过，对许多人来说会更好、更快乐。我对自己感到恐惧，因为我害怕自己的母亲和我骄傲的姓氏面临危险和可能的耻辱。我感到如此困惑和动摇，以至于被一种信念所占据，即我出生时就应该死去，这是正确的，也是命中注定的，而我活着的时候是错误的，也是命中注定的。

These are the real feelings that I had. I fell asleep worn out, and when I awoke I cried afresh to think that I was back in the world with my load of trouble for others. I was more than ever frightened of myself, thinking anew of her against whom I was a witness, of the owner of Chesney Wold, of the new and terrible meaning of the old words now moaning in my ear like a surge upon the shore, ‘Your mother, Esther, was your disgrace, and you are hers. The time will come—and soon enough—when you will understand this better, and will feel it too, as no one save a woman can.’ With them, those other words returned, ‘Pray daily that the sins of others be not visited upon your head.’ I could not disentangle all that was about me, and I felt as if the blame and the shame were all in me, and the visitation had come down.
这些都是我的真实感受。我疲惫不堪地睡着了，当我醒来时，我又哭了，想到我又回到了这个世界，还给别人带来了很多麻烦。我比以往任何时候都更害怕自己，重新想到我所见证的她，想到切斯尼沃尔德的主人，想到现在像海岸上的浪潮一样在我耳边呻吟的旧词的新的和可怕的含义，“你的母亲埃丝特是你的耻辱，而你是她的耻辱。那个时刻将会到来——而且很快——那时你会更好地理解这一点，也会感受到这一点，除了女人之外，没有人能做到这一点。”他们又想起了那句话，“每天祈祷，不要让别人的罪孽受到追究。”我无法理清所有关于我的事情，我觉得责备和羞耻都在我身上，而拜访已经降临了。

The day waned into a gloomy evening, overcast and sad, and I still contended with the same distress. I went out alone, and after walking a little in the park, watching the dark shades falling on the trees and the fitful flight of the bats, which sometimes almost touched me, was attracted to the house for the first time. Perhaps I might not have gone near it if I had been in a stronger frame of mind. As it was, I took the path that led close by it.
天色渐暗，傍晚时分，阴云密布，悲伤不已，而我仍然在与同样的痛苦作斗争。我独自出去，在公园里走了一会儿，看着树上的黑影和断断续续的飞行的蝙蝠，有时几乎触动了我，第一次被这座房子所吸引。如果我当时的心态更坚强的话，也许我就不会接近它。事实上，我走的是它附近的那条路。

I did not dare to linger or to look up, but I passed before the terrace garden with its fragrant odours, and its broad walks, and its well-kept beds and smooth turf; and I saw how beautiful and grave it was, and how the old stone balustrades and parapets, and wide flights of shallow steps, were seamed by time and weather; and how the trained moss and ivy grew about them, and around the old stone pedestal of the sun-dial; and I heard the fountain falling. Then the way went by long lines of dark windows diversified by turreted towers and porches of eccentric shapes, where old stone lions and grotesque monsters bristled outside dens of shadow and snarled at the evening gloom over the escutcheons they held in their grip. Thence the path wound underneath a gateway, and through a court-yard where the principal entrance was (I hurried quickly on), and by the stables where none but deep voices seemed to be, whether in the murmuring of the wind through the strong mass of ivy holding to a high red wall, or in the low complaining of the weathercock, or in the barking of the dogs, or in the slow striking of a clock. So, encountering presently a sweet smell of limes, whose rustling I could hear, I turned with the turning of the path to the south front, and there above me were the balustrades of the Ghost’s Walk and one lighted window that might be my mother’s.
我不敢久留，也不敢抬头，但我经过了芳香四溢的露台花园，宽阔的步道，整洁的床铺和光滑的草坪；我看到它是多么美丽和庄严，古老的石栏杆和护栏，以及宽阔的浅台阶，是如何被时间和天气所缝合的。以及他们周围以及日晷的旧石座周围如何生长出经过训练的苔藓和常春藤；我听到喷泉落下的声音。然后，一路上经过一长排黑暗的窗户，其中有塔楼和形状怪异的门廊，古老的石狮子和怪诞的怪物在阴影的巢穴外竖立着，对着他们手中的盾牌上的夜色咆哮。从那儿，小路在大门下面蜿蜒而行，穿过主入口所在的庭院（我赶紧向前走），经过马厩，那里似乎只有低沉的声音，无论是风吹过人群的低语声。常春藤挂在高高的红墙上，或者在风向标的低声抱怨中，或者在狗的吠叫中，或者在时钟的缓慢敲击中。因此，不久我就闻到了一股酸橙的甜香，我能听到它的沙沙声，我随着小路的转弯转向南面，在我的上方是幽灵步道的栏杆和一扇可能是我母亲的灯火通明的窗户。

The way was paved here, like the terrace overhead, and my footsteps from being noiseless made an echoing sound upon the flags. Stopping to look at nothing, but seeing all I did see as I went, I was passing quickly on, and in a few moments should have passed the lighted window, when my echoing footsteps brought it suddenly into my mind that there was a dreadful truth in the legend of the Ghost’s Walk, that it was I who was to bring calamity upon the stately house and that my warning feet were haunting it even then. Seized with an augmented terror of myself which turned me cold, I ran from myself and everything, retraced the way by which I had come, and never paused until I had gained the lodge-gate, and the park lay sullen and black behind me.
这里的路是铺好的，就像头顶上的露台一样，我的脚步声无声无息，在旗帜上发出回响。停下来不看任何东西，但看到了我所看到的一切，我快速地向前走，过一会儿就应该经过那扇亮着灯的窗户，这时我回响的脚步声突然让我意识到有一个可怕的事实在鬼行的传说中，是我给这座庄严的房子带来了灾难，而我的警告脚甚至在那时就在它附近徘徊。我对自己产生了一种增强的恐惧，这种恐惧使我浑身发冷，我逃离了自己和一切，沿着来时的路走回了原路，一直没有停下来，直到我到达小屋大门，公园就在我身后阴沉而黑暗的地方。

Not before I was alone in my own room for the night and had again been dejected and unhappy there did I begin to know how wrong and thankless this state was. But from my darling who was coming on the morrow, I found a joyful letter, full of such loving anticipation that I must have been of marble if it had not moved me; from my guardian, too, I found another letter, asking me to tell Dame Durden, if I should see that little woman anywhere, that they had moped most pitiably without her, that the housekeeping was going to rack and ruin, that nobody else could manage the keys, and that everybody in and about the house declared it was not the same house and was becoming rebellious for her return. Two such letters together made me think how far beyond my deserts I was beloved and how happy I ought to be. That made me think of all my past life; and that brought me, as it ought to have done before, into a better condition.
直到我独自一人在自己的房间里过夜，再次感到沮丧和不高兴之前，我才开始知道这种状态是多么错误和吃力不讨好。但我从第二天就要来的亲爱的那里发现了一封令人高兴的信，充满了如此充满爱的期待，如果它没有感动我，我一定是大理石的；我还找到了我的监护人的另一封信，要求我告诉德登夫人，如果我应该在任何地方看到那个小女人，没有她，他们就闷闷不乐，家政服务将会崩溃，没有其他人可以管理钥匙，房子里和房子周围的每个人都宣称这不是同一所房子，并且对她的回归变得叛逆。两封这样的信放在一起，让我想到我所爱的人远远超出了我的应得，我应该感到多么幸福。这让我想起了我过去的生活；正如以前应该做的那样，这使我处于更好的状态。

For I saw very well that I could not have been intended to die, or I should never have lived; not to say should never have been reserved for such a happy life. I saw very well how many things had worked together for my welfare, and that if the sins of the fathers were sometimes visited upon the children, the phrase did not mean what I had in the morning feared it meant. I knew I was as innocent of my birth as a queen of hers and that before my Heavenly Father I should not be punished for birth nor a queen rewarded for it. I had had experience, in the shock of that very day, that I could, even thus soon, find comforting reconcilements to the change that had fallen on me. I renewed my resolutions and prayed to be strengthened in them, pouring out my heart for myself and for my unhappy mother and feeling that the darkness of the morning was passing away. It was not upon my sleep; and when the next day’s light awoke me, it was gone.
因为我很清楚，我不可能死，或者我根本不应该活下去。更不用说永远不应该保留这样幸福的生活。我清楚地看到有多少事情共同为我的福祉而努力，如果父亲的罪孽有时会降临在孩子们身上，那么这句话的意思并不像我早上担心的那样。我知道我的出生就像她的女王一样无辜，并且在我的天父面前，我不应该因为出生而受到惩罚，也不应该因此而得到女王的奖励。在那一天的震惊中，我有过这样的经验：即使这么快，我也能找到令人欣慰的和解来应对降临在我身上的变化。我重新制定了自己的决心，并祈祷自己的决心能够得到加强，为自己和不幸的母亲倾诉心声，并感到早晨的黑暗正在消失。这不是在我睡觉时发生的；而是在我睡觉时发生的。当第二天的光线唤醒我时，它已经消失了。

My dear girl was to arrive at five o’clock in the afternoon. How to help myself through the intermediate time better than by taking a long walk along the road by which she was to come, I did not know; so Charley and I and Stubbs—Stubbs saddled, for we never drove him after the one great occasion—made a long expedition along that road and back. On our return, we held a great review of the house and garden and saw that everything was in its prettiest condition, and had the bird out ready as an important part of the establishment.
我亲爱的女儿将于下午五点到达。我不知道如何才能更好地帮助自己度过这中间的时间，而不是沿着她要走的路走很长一段路。于是查理、我和斯塔布斯——斯塔布斯备好了马鞍，因为在这个伟大的场合之后我们再也没有开车送过他——沿着那条路来回进行了一次长途探险。回来后，我们对房子和花园进行了一次仔细的检查，发现一切都处于最漂亮的状态，并准备好了这只鸟，作为酒店的重要组成部分。

There were more than two full hours yet to elapse before she could come, and in that interval, which seemed a long one, I must confess I was nervously anxious about my altered looks. I loved my darling so well that I was more concerned for their effect on her than on any one. I was not in this slight distress because I at all repined—I am quite certain I did not, that day—but, I thought, would she be wholly prepared? When she first saw me, might she not be a little shocked and disappointed? Might it not prove a little worse than she expected? Might she not look for her old Esther and not find her? Might she not have to grow used to me and to begin all over again?
距离她来还有整整两个多小时，在那段看似漫长的间隔里，我必须承认，我对自己容貌的改变感到紧张焦虑。我非常爱我的宝贝，所以我比任何人都更关心它们对她的影响。我并没有陷入这种轻微的痛苦，因为我根本没有抱怨——我很确定那天我没有抱怨——但是，我想，她会做好充分的准备吗？当她第一次看到我的时候，会不会有些震惊和失望呢？会不会比她预想的还要糟糕一点？难道她不会去寻找她的老艾丝特却找不到她吗？难道她不必习惯我并重新开始吗？

I knew the various expressions of my sweet girl’s face so well, and it was such an honest face in its loveliness, that I was sure beforehand she could not hide that first look from me. And I considered whether, if it should signify any one of these meanings, which was so very likely, could I quite answer for myself?
我非常熟悉我可爱的女孩脸上的各种表情，这是一张如此诚实可爱的脸，我事先就确信她无法向我隐瞒第一眼的表情。我想，如果它代表这些含义中的任何一种（而且很有可能），我是否可以为自己做出回答？

Well, I thought I could. After last night, I thought I could. But to wait and wait, and expect and expect, and think and think, was such bad preparation that I resolved to go along the road again and meet her.
嗯，我想我可以。经过昨晚之后，我想我可以。但等啊等，期待啊期待，想啊想，准备得如此糟糕，我决定再次沿着这条路去见她。

So I said to Charley, ‘“Charley, I will go by myself and walk along the road until she comes.’ Charley highly approving of anything that pleased me, I went and left her at home.
于是我对查理说：“查理，我自己一个人去，沿着路走，直到她来。”查理对任何让我高兴的事情都非常满意，我就走了，把她留在家里。

But before I got to the second milestone, I had been in so many palpitations from seeing dust in the distance (though I knew it was not, and could not, be the coach yet) that I resolved to turn back and go home again. And when I had turned, I was in such fear of the coach coming up behind me (though I still knew that it neither would, nor could, do any such thing) that I ran the greater part of the way to avoid being overtaken.
但在到达第二个里程碑之前，我因看到远处的灰尘而感到心悸（尽管我知道我还不是，也不能成为教练），所以我决定折返并再次回家。当我转弯时，我非常害怕教练追上我（尽管我仍然知道它既不会也不可能做任何这样的事情），所以我跑了大部分路以避免被超越。

Then, I considered, when I had got safe back again, this was a nice thing to have done! Now I was hot and had made the worst of it instead of the best.
然后我想，当我再次安全回来时，这真是一件好事！现在我很热，并且做了最坏的事情，而不是最好的事情。

At last, when I believed there was at least a quarter of an hour more yet, Charley all at once cried out to me as I was trembling in the garden, ‘Here she comes, miss! Here she is!’
最后，当我相信至少还有一刻钟的时候，当我在花园里瑟瑟发抖时，查理突然向我喊道：“她来了，小姐！”她在这！'

I did not mean to do it, but I ran upstairs into my room and hid myself behind the door. There I stood trembling, even when I heard my darling calling as she came upstairs, ‘Esther, my dear, my love, where are you? Little woman, dear Dame Durden!’
我本来不是故意的，但我跑上楼进了自己的房间，躲到了门后面。我站在那儿，浑身发抖，甚至听到我亲爱的上楼时喊道：“艾丝特，亲爱的，我的爱人，你在哪里？”小女人，亲爱的德登夫人！

She ran in, and was running out again when she saw me. Ah, my angel girl! The old dear look, all love, all fondness, all affection. Nothing else in it—no, nothing, nothing!
她跑了进来，看到我时又跑了出去。啊，我的天使女孩！昔日亲爱的样子，全是爱，全是喜爱，全是感情。里面什么也没有——不，什么都没有，什么都没有！

Oh, how happy I was, down upon the floor, with my sweet beautiful girl down upon the floor too, holding my scarred face to her lovely cheek, bathing it with tears and kisses, rocking me to and fro like a child, calling me by every tender name that she could think of, and pressing me to her faithful heart.
哦，我多么高兴，趴在地板上，我可爱美丽的女孩也趴在地板上，把我伤痕累累的脸贴在她可爱的脸颊上，用泪水和亲吻沐浴它，像孩子一样摇晃我，呼唤我用她能想到的每一个温柔的名字，把我压在她忠实的心上。

CHAPTER XXXVII
第三十七章


Jarndyce and Jarndyce
贾迪斯和贾迪斯

If the secret I had to keep had been mine, I must have confided it to Ada before we had been long together. But it was not mine, and I did not feel that I had a right to tell it, even to my guardian, unless some great emergency arose. It was a weight to bear alone; still my present duty appeared to be plain, and blest in the attachment of my dear, I did not want an impulse and encouragement to do it. Though often when she was asleep and all was quiet, the remembrance of my mother kept me waking and made the night sorrowful, I did not yield to it at another time; and Ada found me what I used to be—except, of course, in that particular of which I have said enough and which I have no intention of mentioning any more just now, if I can help it.
如果我必须保守的秘密是我自己的，我一定在我们在一起很久之前就把它告诉了艾达。但这不是我的，而且我觉得我没有权利告诉它，即使是对我的监护人，除非出现重大紧急情况。这是一个需要独自承受的重量；不过，我目前的职责似乎很简单，而且有幸与我亲爱的人依恋，我不想因为冲动和鼓励而去做这件事。虽然常常当她睡着了，万籁俱寂的时候，我就会想起母亲，让我彻夜难眠，让我的夜晚变得悲伤，但在其他时候我并没有屈服。艾达发现了我以前的样子——当然，除了那个我已经说得够多了、如果可以的话我现在不想再提的具体情况。

The difficulty that I felt in being quite composed that first evening when Ada asked me, over our work, if the family were at the house, and when I was obliged to answer yes, I believed so, for Lady Dedlock had spoken to me in the woods the day before yesterday, was great. Greater still when Ada asked me what she had said, and when I replied that she had been kind and interested, and when Ada, while admitting her beauty and elegance, remarked upon her proud manner and her imperious chilling air. But Charley helped me through, unconsciously, by telling us that Lady Dedlock had only stayed at the house two nights on her way from London to visit at some other great house in the next county and that she had left early on the morning after we had seen her at our view, as we called it. Charley verified the adage about little pitchers, I am sure, for she heard of more sayings and doings in a day than would have come to my ears in a month.
第一天晚上，当艾达问我，关于我们的工作，家人是否在家里时，我感到很难保持镇定，当我不得不回答“是”时，我相信是的，因为戴德洛克夫人在前天的树林，很棒。更重要的是，当艾达问我她说了些什么，当我回答说她很友善且感兴趣时，当艾达承认她的美丽和优雅时，却评论了她傲慢的举止和专横的冷酷神情。但查理不知不觉地帮助我度过了难关，他告诉我们，戴德洛克夫人在从伦敦出发去参观下一个县的另一座大宅的途中，只在这所房子里住了两晚，而且在我们离开后的第二天一早，她就离开了。从我们的角度来看她，正如我们所说的那样。我确信查理证实了关于小水手的格言，因为她一天听到的说法和行为比我一个月听到的还多。

We were to stay a month at Mr. Boythorn’s. My pet had scarcely been there a bright week, as I recollect the time, when one evening after we had finished helping the gardener in watering his flowers, and just as the candles were lighted, Charley, appearing with a very important air behind Ada’s chair, beckoned me mysteriously out of the room.
我们要在博伊索恩先生家住一个月。我记得我的宠物在那儿呆了不到一个愉快的星期，有一天晚上，我们帮园丁浇完花后，蜡烛刚刚点燃，查理就以一种非常重要的神态出现在艾达的椅子后面。 ，神秘地招呼我走出房间。

‘Oh! If you please, miss,’ said Charley in a whisper, with her eyes at their roundest and largest. ‘You’re wanted at the Dedlock Arms.’
'哦！如果您愿意的话，小姐。”查理小声说道，她的眼睛睁得又圆又大。 “戴德洛克武器店正在通缉你。”

‘Why, Charley,’ said I, ‘who can possibly want me at the publichouse?’
“为什么，查理，”我说，“谁会想要我去酒店呢？”

‘I don’t know, miss,’ returned Charley, putting her head forward and folding her hands tight upon the band of her little apron, which she always did in the enjoyment of anything mysterious or confidential, ‘but it’s a gentleman, miss, and his compliments, and will you please to come without saying anything about it.’
“我不知道，小姐，”查理回答道，她把头向前倾，双手紧紧地扣在小围裙的带子上，她在享受任何神秘或机密的事情时总是这样做，“但这是一位绅士，小姐。” ，以及他的赞美，请您不要说什么就来吧。

‘Whose compliments, Charley?’
“查理，谁的赞美？”

‘His’n, miss,’ returned Charley, whose grammatical education was advancing, but not very rapidly.
“他的，小姐，”查利回答道，他的语法教育正在进步，但进展不是很快。

‘And how do you come to be the messenger, Charley?’
“查理，你是怎么成为信使的？”

‘I am not the messenger, if you please, miss,’ returned my little maid. ‘It was W. Grubble, miss.’
“我不是信使，请您原谅，小姐，”我的小女仆回答道。 “是W·格鲁布尔，小姐。”

‘And who is W. Grubble, Charley?’
“查理，W·格拉布尔是谁？”

‘Mister Grubble, miss,’ returned Charley. ‘Don’t you know, miss? The Dedlock Arms, by W. Grubble,’ which Charley delivered as if she were slowly spelling out the sign.
“格拉布尔先生，小姐，”查利回答道。 ‘小姐你不知道吗？ 《戴德洛克武器》（The Dedlock Arms），作者：W·格鲁布尔（W. Grubble），查理说道，就好像她在慢慢地拼出这个标志一样。

‘Aye? The landlord, Charley?’
‘是吗？房东，查理？

‘Yes, miss. If you please, miss, his wife is a beautiful woman, but she broke her ankle, and it never joined. And her brother’s the sawyer that was put in the cage, miss, and they expect he’ll drink himself to death entirely on beer,’ said Charley.
'是的，女士。麻烦您了，小姐，他的妻子是一位美丽的女人，但她扭断了脚踝，从此再也没有连上。她哥哥就是被关在笼子里的锯木工，小姐，他们预计他会喝啤酒喝死。”查理说。

Not knowing what might be the matter, and being easily apprehensive now, I thought it best to go to this place by myself. I bade Charley be quick with my bonnet and veil and my shawl, and having put them on, went away down the little hilly street, where I was as much at home as in Mr. Boythorn’s garden.
由于不知道发生了什么事，而且现在很容易担心，我认为最好自己去这个地方。我吩咐查理快点戴上我的帽子、面纱和披肩，然后戴上它们，沿着小山路走开，在那里我就像在博伊索恩先生的花园里一样自在。

Mr. Grubble was standing in his shirt-sleeves at the door of his very clean little tavern waiting for me. He lifted off his hat with both hands when he saw me coming, and carrying it so, as if it were an iron vessel (it looked as heavy), preceded me along the sanded passage to his best parlour, a neat carpeted room with more plants in it than were quite convenient, a coloured print of Queen Caroline, several shells, a good many tea-trays, two stuffed and dried fish in glass cases, and either a curious egg or a curious pumpkin (but I don’t know which, and I doubt if many people did) hanging from his ceiling. I knew Mr. Grubble very well by sight, from his often standing at his door. A pleasant-looking, stoutish, middle-aged man who never seemed to consider himself cozily dressed for his own fire-side without his hat and top-boots, but who never wore a coat except at church.
格鲁布尔先生穿着衬衫站在他那间非常干净的小酒馆门口等我。当他看到我走过来时，他用双手摘下帽子，拎着它，仿佛它是一个铁器皿（看起来很重），在我前面沿着铺着沙子的通道来到他最好的客厅，这是一个铺着地毯的整洁房间，里面有更多东西。里面的植物比以前相当方便，一张卡罗琳王后的彩色照片，几个贝壳，很多茶盘，玻璃柜里的两条填充鱼干，还有一个奇怪的鸡蛋或一个奇怪的南瓜（但我不知道我怀疑是否有很多人这样做）挂在天花板上。我对格鲁布尔先生很熟悉，因为他经常站在他家门口。一个相貌宜人、粗壮的中年男子，似乎从来不认为自己在不戴帽子和高筒靴的情况下在自己的炉边穿着舒适，但除了在教堂之外，他从不穿外套。

He snuffed the candle, and backing away a little to see how it looked, backed out of the room—unexpectedly to me, for I was going to ask him by whom he had been sent. The door of the opposite parlour being then opened, I heard some voices, familiar in my ears I thought, which stopped. A quick light step approached the room in which I was, and who should stand before me but Richard!
他掐灭了蜡烛，后退了一点，看看情况如何，然后退出了房间——出乎我的意料，因为我正要问他是谁派他来的。对面客厅的门被打开，我听到一些声音，我觉得耳熟能详，但又停了下来。一阵轻快的脚步靠近了我所在的房间，除了理查德，还有谁会站在我面前！

‘My dear Esther!’ he said. ‘My best friend!’ And he really was so warm-hearted and earnest that in the first surprise and pleasure of his brotherly greeting I could scarcely find breath to tell him that Ada was well.
“我亲爱的埃丝特！”他说。 “我最好的朋友！”他真的是那么热心和诚恳，当我第一次听到他兄弟般的问候时，我感到惊讶和高兴，几乎喘不过气来告诉他艾达很好。

‘Answering my very thoughts—always the same dear girl!’ said Richard, leading me to a chair and seating himself beside me.
“回答我的想法——永远是同一个亲爱的女孩！”理查德说着，把我领到一把椅子旁，坐在我旁边。

I put my veil up, but not quite.
我把面纱掀起来，但没有完全掀起来。

‘Always the same dear girl!’ said Richard just as heartily as before.
“亲爱的女孩，永远都是一样的！”理查德像以前一样热情地说。

I put up my veil altogether, and laying my hand on Richard’s sleeve and looking in his face, told him how much I thanked him for his kind welcome and how greatly I rejoiced to see him, the more so because of the determination I had made in my illness, which I now conveyed to him.
我把面纱完全拉起来，把手放在理查德的袖子上，看着他的脸，告诉他我是多么感谢他的盛情款待，我是多么高兴见到他，尤其是因为我做出的决定我现在把我的病转告给了他。

‘My love,’ said Richard, ‘there is no one with whom I have a greater wish to talk than you, for I want you to understand me.’
“我的爱人，”理查德说，“没有人比你更愿意与你交谈，因为我希望你能理解我。”

‘And I want you, Richard,’ said I, shaking my head, ‘to understand some one else.’
“理查德，我希望你能够理解别人。”我摇着头说道。

‘Since you refer so immediately to John Jarndyce,’ said Richard, ‘ —I suppose you mean him?’
“既然你这么直接地提到了约翰·贾迪斯，”理查德说，“——我想你指的是他？”

‘Of course I do.’
'我当然是了。'

‘Then I may say at once that I am glad of it, because it is on that subject that I am anxious to be understood. By you, mind—you, my dear! I am not accountable to Mr. Jarndyce or Mr. Anybody.’
“那么我可以立即说我对此感到高兴，因为正是在这个问题上我渴望被理解。是你，请注意——你，亲爱的！我不对贾迪斯先生或任何人先生负责。

I was pained to find him taking this tone, and he observed it.
我很痛苦地发现他采取这种语气，他也观察到了这一点。

‘Well, well, my dear,’ said Richard, ‘we won’t go into that now. I want to appear quietly in your country-house here, with you under my arm, and give my charming cousin a surprise. I suppose your loyalty to John Jarndyce will allow that?’
“好吧，好吧，亲爱的，”理查德说，“我们现在不谈这个了。我想挽着你，静静地出现在你这里的乡间别墅里，给我迷人的表弟一个惊喜。我想你对约翰·贾迪斯的忠诚会允许这样做吗？

‘My dear Richard,’ I returned, ‘you know you would be heartily welcome at his house—your home, if you will but consider it so; and you are as heartily welcome here!’
“我亲爱的理查德，”我回答道，“你知道，他的家——你的家，如果你愿意的话，会受到热烈的欢迎；我们热烈欢迎您来到这里！

‘Spoken like the best of little women!’ cried Richard gaily.
“说起话来就像最优秀的小女人一样！”理查德高兴地喊道。

I asked him how he liked his profession.
我问他如何喜欢他的职业。

‘Oh, I like it well enough!’ said Richard. ‘It’s all right. It does as well as anything else, for a time. I don’t know that I shall care about it when I come to be settled, but I can sell out then and—however, never mind all that botheration at present.’
“哦，我非常喜欢它！”理查德说。 '没关系。在一段时间内，它的作用和其他任何东西一样。我不知道当我安顿下来时我会关心它，但那时我可以卖掉——不过，别介意目前的所有烦恼。

So young and handsome, and in all respects so perfectly the opposite of Miss Flite! And yet, in the clouded, eager, seeking look that passed over him, so dreadfully like her!
如此年轻、如此英俊，在各方面都与弗利特小姐截然相反！然而，从他身上掠过的阴沉的、热切的、寻求的目光，却和她是如此可怕地相似！

‘I am in town on leave just now,’ said Richard.
“我现在在城里休假，”理查德说。

‘Indeed?’
'的确？'

‘Yes. I have run over to look after my—my Chancery interests before the long vacation,’ said Richard, forcing a careless laugh. ‘We are beginning to spin along with that old suit at last, I promise you.’
'是的。 “长假之前我已经跑过去照顾我的——我的大法官法庭的利益了。”理查德强行笑了一声，说道。 “我向你保证，我们终于开始和那套旧衣服一起旋转了。”

No wonder that I shook my head!
难怪我摇头！

‘As you say, it’s not a pleasant subject.’ Richard spoke with the same shade crossing his face as before. ‘Let it go to the four winds for to-night. Puff! Gone! Who do you suppose is with me?’
“正如你所说，这不是一个令人愉快的话题。”理查德说道，脸上的阴影与之前一样。 “今晚就让它刮四风吧。”噗！走了！你认为谁和我在一起？

‘Was it Mr. Skimpole’s voice I heard?’
“我听到的是斯金波尔先生的声音吗？”

‘That’s the man! He does me more good than anybody. What a fascinating child it is!’
‘就是那个男人！他对我的好处比任何人都多。这是一个多么迷人的孩子啊！

I asked Richard if any one knew of their coming down together. He answered, no, nobody. He had been to call upon the dear old infant—so he called Mr. Skimpole—and the dear old infant had told him where we were, and he had told the dear old infant he was bent on coming to see us, and the dear old infant had directly wanted to come too; and so he had brought him. ‘And he is worth—not to say his sordid expenses—but thrice his weight in gold,’ said Richard. ‘He is such a cheery fellow. No worldliness about him. Fresh and green-hearted!’
我问理查德是否有人知道他们一起下来。他回答说，没有，没有人。他去拜访那个亲爱的老婴儿——他这样称呼斯金波尔先生——那个亲爱的老婴儿告诉了他我们在哪里，他也告诉那个亲爱的老婴儿他一心想来看我们，而那个亲爱的老婴儿也告诉了他我们在哪里。老婴也直接想来了；所以他把他带来了。 “而且他的价值——更不用说他那些肮脏的开支——而是三倍于他重量的黄金，”理查德说。 ‘他真是个开朗的人。他没有世俗的一面。新鲜又环保！’

I certainly did not see the proof of Mr. Skimpole’s worldliness in his having his expenses paid by Richard, but I made no remark about that. Indeed, he came in and turned our conversation. He was charmed to see me, said he had been shedding delicious tears of joy and sympathy at intervals for six weeks on my account, had never been so happy as in hearing of my progress, began to understand the mixture of good and evil in the world now, felt that he appreciated health the more when somebody else was ill, didn’t know but what it might be in the scheme of things that A should squint to make B happier in looking straight or that C should carry a wooden leg to make D better satisfied with his flesh and blood in a silk stocking.
我当然没有看到斯金波尔先生的世俗证明，他的费用由理查德支付，但我对此没有发表任何评论。确实，他进来改变了我们的谈话。他很高兴见到我，说他在六周的时间里，时不时地为我流下喜悦和同情的眼泪，从来没有像听到我的进步那样高兴，开始理解善与恶的混合体。现在的世界，他觉得当别人生病时他更珍惜健康，不知道A应该眯着眼睛让B更快乐地直视，或者C应该带着一条木腿让D更加满意自己丝袜里的骨肉。

‘My dear Miss Summerson, here is our friend Richard,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘full of the brightest visions of the future, which he evokes out of the darkness of Chancery. Now that’s delightful, that’s inspiriting, that’s full of poetry! In old times the woods and solitudes were made joyous to the shepherd by the imaginary piping and dancing of Pan and the nymphs. This present shepherd, our pastoral Richard, brightens the dull Inns of Court by making Fortune and her train sport through them to the melodious notes of a judgment from the bench. That’s very pleasant, you know! Some ill-conditioned growling fellow may say to me, ‘What’s the use of these legal and equitable abuses? How do you defend them?’ I reply, ‘My growling friend, I DON’T defend them, but they are very agreeable to me. There is a shepherd—youth, a friend of mine, who transmutes them into something highly fascinating to my simplicity. I don’t say it is for this that they exist—for I am a child among you worldly grumblers, and not called upon to account to you or myself for anything—but it may be so.’’
“我亲爱的萨默森小姐，这是我们的朋友理查德，”斯金波尔先生说，“他从大法官办公室的黑暗中唤起了对未来最光明的愿景。”现在这真是令人愉快、鼓舞人心、充满诗意！在古代，潘神和仙女们想象中的笛声和舞蹈使牧羊人在树林和孤独中变得欢乐。这位现任牧羊人，我们的田园诗般的理查德，让《财富》杂志和她的火车伴随着法官判决的悠扬音符穿过它们，使沉闷的法庭变得明亮起来。这非常令人愉快，你知道！一些脾气不好、咆哮的家伙可能会对我说，‘这些合法和公平的滥用行为有什么用呢？你如何为他们辩护？”我回答道：“我咆哮的朋友，我不为他们辩护，但他们对我来说非常满意。有一个牧羊人——年轻人，我的一个朋友，他把它们变成了对我的单纯非常着迷的东西。我并不是说它们就是为了这个而存在的——因为我是你们这些世俗的抱怨者中的一个孩子，不需要为任何事情向你或我自己负责——但可能是这样。”

I began seriously to think that Richard could scarcely have found a worse friend than this. It made me uneasy that at such a time when he most required some right principle and purpose he should have this captivating looseness and putting-off of everything, this airy dispensing with all principle and purpose, at his elbow. I thought I could understand how such a nature as my guardian’s, experienced in the world and forced to contemplate the miserable evasions and contentions of the family misfortune, found an immense relief in Mr. Skimpole’s avowal of his weaknesses and display of guileless candour; but I could not satisfy myself that it was as artless as it seemed or that it did not serve Mr. Skimpole’s idle turn quite as well as any other part, and with less trouble.
我开始认真地想，理查德几乎不可能找到比这更糟糕的朋友了。让我感到不安的是，在他最需要某种正确的原则和目的的时候，他却拥有这种令人着迷的松散和对一切的推迟，这种轻快的放弃所有原则和目的，在他的身边。我想我可以理解，像我的监护人那样的性格，经历过世事，被迫思考家庭不幸带来的可悲的逃避和争吵，斯金波尔先生坦白了自己的弱点并表现出了朴实的坦率，这让他感到极大的宽慰。但我无法让自己相信，它确实像看起来那样天真无邪，或者说它不像其他任何部分那样适合斯基姆波尔先生的闲暇​​时间，而且麻烦更少。

They both walked back with me, and Mr. Skimpole leaving us at the gate, I walked softly in with Richard and said, ‘Ada, my love, I have brought a gentleman to visit you.’ It was not difficult to read the blushing, startled face. She loved him dearly, and he knew it, and I knew it. It was a very transparent business, that meeting as cousins only.
他们俩和我一起往回走，斯金波尔先生把我们留在门口，我和理查德轻轻地走了进来，说道：“艾达，我的爱人，我带了一位绅士来拜访你。”不难看出他的脸红了。 ，惊愕的脸。她深爱着他，他知道，我也知道。这是一件非常透明的事情，只是以堂兄弟的身份见面。

I almost mistrusted myself as growing quite wicked in my suspicions, but I was not so sure that Richard loved her dearly. He admired her very much—any one must have done that—and I dare say would have renewed their youthful engagement with great pride and ardour but that he knew how she would respect her promise to my guardian. Still I had a tormenting idea that the influence upon him extended even here, that he was postponing his best truth and earnestness in this as in all things until Jarndyce and Jarndyce should be off his mind. Ah me! What Richard would have been without that blight, I never shall know now!
我几乎不相信自己，因为我的怀疑变得相当邪恶，但我不太确定理查德是否深爱着她。他非常钦佩她——任何人都一定会这么做——我敢说，他会带着极大的自豪和热情重新订婚，但他知道她会如何尊重她对我的监护人的承诺。我仍然有一个痛苦的想法，对他的影响甚至在这里延伸，他推迟了他在这件事上和在所有事情上最好的真理和真诚，直到贾迪斯和贾迪斯应该从他的脑海中消失。啊我！如果没有那场灾难，理查德会变成什么样子，我现在永远不会知道了！

He told Ada, in his most ingenuous way, that he had not come to make any secret inroad on the terms she had accepted (rather too implicitly and confidingly, he thought) from Mr. Jarndyce, that he had come openly to see her and to see me and to justify himself for the present terms on which he stood with Mr. Jarndyce. As the dear old infant would be with us directly, he begged that I would make an appointment for the morning, when he might set himself right through the means of an unreserved conversation with me. I proposed to walk with him in the park at seven o’clock, and this was arranged. Mr. Skimpole soon afterwards appeared and made us merry for an hour. He particularly requested to see little Coavinses (meaning Charley) and told her, with a patriarchal air, that he had given her late father all the business in his power and that if one of her little brothers would make haste to get set up in the same profession, he hoped he should still be able to put a good deal of employment in his way.
他以最坦率的方式告诉艾达，他并不是来秘密地侵犯她从贾迪斯先生那里接受的条件（他认为这太含蓄和坦诚了），他是公开来见她的，并且来见我，并为他目前与詹迪斯先生所坚持的条件辩护。由于亲爱的老婴儿会直接和我们在一起，他恳求我预约早上的时间，这样他就可以通过与我进行毫无保留的交谈。我提出七点和他一起去公园散步，这件事就这样安排了。斯金波尔先生不久就出现了，让我们高兴了一个小时。他特别要求见见小科文斯（意为查理），并以一种家长式的态度告诉她，他已将其权力范围内的所有生意交给了她已故的父亲，并且如果她的一个弟弟能尽快在公司成立的话，他会告诉她。同样的职业，他希望自己还能找到很多工作。

‘For I am constantly being taken in these nets,’ said Mr. Skimpole, looking beamingly at us over a glass of wine-and-water, ‘and am constantly being bailed out—like a boat. Or paid off—like a ship’s company. Somebody always does it for me. I can’t do it, you know, for I never have any money. But somebody does it. I get out by somebody’s means; I am not like the starling; I get out. If you were to ask me who somebody is, upon my word I couldn’t tell you. Let us drink to somebody. God bless him!’
“因为我不断地被困在这些网里，”斯金波尔先生说道，他隔着一杯酒和水，笑容满面地看着我们，“又不断地被救出来——就像一艘船一样。”或者像船公司一样得到回报。总是有人为我做这件事。你知道，我做不到，因为我从来没有钱。但有人这么做了。我通过某人的手段出去了；我不像椋鸟；我出去。如果你问我某人是谁，我保证我无法告诉你。让我们为某人喝一杯吧。上帝保佑他！'

Richard was a little late in the morning, but I had not to wait for him long, and we turned into the park. The air was bright and dewy and the sky without a cloud. The birds sang delightfully; the sparkles in the fern, the grass, and trees, were exquisite to see; the richness of the woods seemed to have increased twenty-fold since yesterday, as if, in the still night when they had looked so massively hushed in sleep, Nature, through all the minute details of every wonderful leaf, had been more wakeful than usual for the glory of that day.
理查德早上来得有点晚，但我没等他太久，我们就拐进了公园。空气明亮，带着露水，天空万里无云。鸟儿欢快地歌唱；蕨类植物、草丛和树木中闪烁的光芒，非常美丽。树林的茂盛似乎比昨天增加了二十倍，仿佛在寂静的夜晚，当它们在睡眠中看起来如此安静时，大​​自然通过每片奇妙树叶的所有微小细节，都比平时更加​​清醒为了那一天的荣耀。

‘This is a lovely place,’ said Richard, looking round. ‘None of the jar and discord of law-suits here!’
“这是一个可爱的地方，”理查德环顾四周说道。 “这里没有诉讼的争吵和不和！”

But there was other trouble.
但还有其他麻烦。

‘I tell you what, my dear girl,’ said Richard, ‘when I get affairs in general settled, I shall come down here, I think, and rest.’
“我告诉你，我亲爱的女孩，”理查德说，“当我把所有事情都解决之后，我想我会来这里休息。”

‘Would it not be better to rest now?’ I asked.
“现在休息不是更好吗？”我问。

‘Oh, as to resting NOW,’ said Richard, ‘or as to doing anything very definite NOW, that’s not easy. In short, it can’t be done; I can’t do it at least.’
“哦，至于现在休息，”理查德说，“或者说现在要做任何非常明确的事情，这并不容易。简而言之，这是做不到的；至少我做不到。

‘Why not?’ said I.
“为什么不呢？”我说。

‘You know why not, Esther. If you were living in an unfinished house, liable to have the roof put on or taken off—to be from top to bottom pulled down or built up—to-morrow, next day, next week, next month, next year—you would find it hard to rest or settle. So do I. Now? There’s no now for us suitors.’
“你知道为什么不，埃丝特。如果你住在一栋未完工的房子里，屋顶可能会被盖上或取下——从上到下推倒或盖起来——明天、后天、下周、下个月、明年——你会发现很难休息或安顿下来。我也是。现在？现在我们的追求者已经没有了。

I could almost have believed in the attraction on which my poor little wandering friend had expatiated when I saw again the darkened look of last night. Terrible to think it bad in it also a shade of that unfortunate man who had died.
当我再次看到昨晚的阴暗面容时，我几乎可以相信我可怜的流浪小朋友所阐述的吸引力了。可怕的是，它也有那个不幸死去的人的影子。

‘My dear Richard,’ said I, ‘this is a bad beginning of our conversation.’
“亲爱的理查德，”我说，“这是我们谈话的一个糟糕的开始。”

‘I knew you would tell me so, Dame Durden.’
“我知道你会这么告诉我，德登夫人。”

‘And not I alone, dear Richard. It was not I who cautioned you once never to found a hope or expectation on the family curse.’
“不仅仅是我一个人，亲爱的理查德。不是我曾经警告过你永远不要对家庭诅咒抱有希望或期待。

‘There you come back to John Jarndyce!’ said Richard impatiently. ‘Well! We must approach him sooner or later, for he is the staple of what I have to say, and it’s as well at once. My dear Esther, how can you be so blind? Don’t you see that he is an interested party and that it may be very well for him to wish me to know nothing of the suit, and care nothing about it, but that it may not be quite so well for me?’
“你又回到约翰·贾迪斯身边了！”理查德不耐烦地说。 '出色地！我们迟早必须接近他，因为他是我要说的内容的主要部分，而且最好立即联系。我亲爱的艾丝特，你怎么这么盲目？难道你没看到他是一个利害关系人吗？他希望我对这起诉讼一无所知，也不关心它，这可能很好，但对我来说可能不太好？

‘Oh, Richard,’ I remonstrated, ‘is it possible that you can ever have seen him and heard him, that you can ever have lived under his roof and known him, and can yet breathe, even to me in this solitary place where there is no one to hear us, such unworthy suspicions?’
“噢，理查德，”我抗议道，“你有没有可能曾经见过他、听过他，你有没有可能曾经生活在他的屋檐下、认识他，并且还能呼吸，甚至对我来说，在这个偏僻的地方，没有人听到我们这样毫无价值的怀疑吗？

He reddened deeply, as if his natural generosity felt a pang of reproach. He was silent for a little while before he replied in a subdued voice, ‘Esther, I am sure you know that I am not a mean fellow and that I have some sense of suspicion and distrust being poor qualities in one of my years.’
他的脸涨得通红，仿佛他天生的慷慨感到了一阵责备的痛苦。他沉默了一会儿，才用低沉的声音回答道：“艾丝特，我相信你知道我不是一个卑鄙的人，而且我有一些怀疑和不信任感，因为我这些年的品质很差。”

‘I know it very well,’ said I. ‘I am not more sure of anything.’
“我很清楚，”我说，“我对任何事情都没有把握。”

‘That’s a dear girl,’ retorted Richard, ‘and like you, because it gives me comfort. I had need to get some scrap of comfort out of all this business, for it’s a bad one at the best, as I have no occasion to tell you.’
“那是一个可爱的女孩，”理查德反驳道，“就像你一样，因为它给了我安慰。”我需要从这一切中得到一些安慰，因为这充其量只是一件坏事，我没有机会告诉你。

‘I know perfectly,’ said I. ‘I know as well, Richard—what shall I say? as well as you do—that such misconstructions are foreign to your nature. And I know, as well as you know, what so changes it.’
“我完全知道，”我说，“我也知道，理查德——我该说什么呢？和你一样——这种误解与你的本性格格不入。我知道，你也知道，是什么改变了它。

‘Come, sister, come,’ said Richard a little more gaily, ‘you will be fair with me at all events. If I have the misfortune to be under that influence, so has he. If it has a little twisted me, it may have a little twisted him too. I don’t say that he is not an honourable man, out of all this complication and uncertainty; I am sure he is. But it taints everybody. You know it taints everybody. You have heard him say so fifty times. Then why should HE escape?’
“来吧，姐姐，来吧，”理查德更加高兴地说，“无论如何，你都会公平地对待我。”如果我不幸受到这种影响，他也一样。如果这对我来说有一点扭曲，那么他也可能有一点扭曲。出于所有这些复杂性和不确定性，我并不是说他不是一个值得尊敬的人；我只是说他不是一个值得尊敬的人。我确信他是。但它玷污了每个人。你知道它会玷污每个人。你已经听他说过五十次这样的话了。那他为什么要逃跑呢？

‘Because,’ said I, ‘his is an uncommon character, and he has resolutely kept himself outside the circle, Richard.’
“因为，”我说，“他是一个不寻常的人物，而且他坚决将自己排除在圈子之外，理查德。”

‘Oh, because and because!’ replied Richard in his vivacious way. ‘I am not sure, my dear girl, but that it may be wise and specious to preserve that outward indifference. It may cause other parties interested to become lax about their interests; and people may die off, and points may drag themselves out of memory, and many things may smoothly happen that are convenient enough.’
“哦，因为，因为！”理查德活泼地回答道。 “我不确定，我亲爱的女孩，但保持表面上的冷漠可能是明智和似是而非的。可能导致其他利益相关方对其利益松懈；人们可能会死去，事情可能会从记忆中消失，许多足够方便的事情可能会顺利发生。

I was so touched with pity for Richard that I could not reproach him any more, even by a look. I remembered my guardian’s gentleness towards his errors and with what perfect freedom from resentment he had spoken of them.
我对理查德充满了怜悯，以至于我无法再责备他，哪怕是一个眼神。我记得我的监护人对他的错误表现出的温柔，以及他在谈论这些错误时完全没有怨恨。

‘Esther,’ Richard resumed, ‘you are not to suppose that I have come here to make underhanded charges against John Jarndyce. I have only come to justify myself. What I say is, it was all very well and we got on very well while I was a boy, utterly regardless of this same suit; but as soon as I began to take an interest in it and to look into it, then it was quite another thing. Then John Jarndyce discovers that Ada and I must break off and that if I don’t amend that very objectionable course, I am not fit for her. Now, Esther, I don’t mean to amend that very objectionable course: I will not hold John Jarndyce’s favour on those unfair terms of compromise, which he has no right to dictate. Whether it pleases him or displeases him, I must maintain my rights and Ada’s. I have been thinking about it a good deal, and this is the conclusion I have come to.’
“艾丝特，”理查德继续说道，“你不要以为我来这里是为了对约翰·贾迪斯进行暗中指控。我只是来为自己辩解而已。我想说的是，一切都很好，当我还是个孩子的时候，我们相处得很好，完全不管这套衣服；但一旦我开始对它感兴趣并研究它，那就完全是另一回事了。然后约翰·贾迪斯发现我和艾达必须分手，如果我不改变那个非常令人反感的做法，我就不适合她。现在，埃丝特，我无意修改那个非常令人反感的做法：我不会在那些不公平的妥协条款上支持约翰·贾迪斯，因为他无权发号施令。无论他高兴还是不高兴，我都必须维护我和艾达的权利。我想了很多，这就是我得出的结论。”

Poor dear Richard! He had indeed been thinking about it a good deal. His face, his voice, his manner, all showed that too plainly.
可怜的亲爱的理查德！他确实想了很多。他的脸、他的声音、他的举止，都把这一点表现得太明显了。

‘So I tell him honourably (you are to know I have written to him about all this) that we are at issue and that we had better be at issue openly than covertly. I thank him for his goodwill and his protection, and he goes his road, and I go mine. The fact is, our roads are not the same. Under one of the wills in dispute, I should take much more than he. I don’t mean to say that it is the one to be established, but there it is, and it has its chance.’
“所以我郑重地告诉他（你知道我已经写信告诉他这一切）我们之间存在争议，而且我们最好公开地争论，而不是秘密地争论。”我感谢他的善意和保护，他走他的路，我走我的。事实上，我们的道路并不相同。根据其中一份有争议的遗嘱，我应该比他得到更多。我并不是说它就是要建立的那个，但它就在那里，而且有机会。”

‘I have not to learn from you, my dear Richard,’ said I, ‘of your letter. I had heard of it already without an offended or angry word.’
“我不必向你学习，亲爱的理查德，”我说，“你的信。”我已经听说过这件事了，没有任何冒犯或愤怒的言语。

‘Indeed?’ replied Richard, softening. ‘I am glad I said he was an honourable man, out of all this wretched affair. But I always say that and have never doubted it. Now, my dear Esther, I know these views of mine appear extremely harsh to you, and will to Ada when you tell her what has passed between us. But if you had gone into the case as I have, if you had only applied yourself to the papers as I did when I was at Kenge’s, if you only knew what an accumulation of charges and counter-charges, and suspicions and cross-suspicions, they involve, you would think me moderate in comparison.’
“真的吗？”理查德语气软化了。 “我很高兴我说他是一个值得尊敬的人，摆脱了这一切不幸的事件。但我总是这么说，从来没有怀疑过。现在，我亲爱的埃丝特，我知道我的这些观点对你来说显得极其严厉，当你告诉艾达我们之间发生的事情时，也会对她如此。但如果你像我一样深入研究这个案子，如果你像我在肯格那里时那样认真查阅文件，如果你只知道指控和反指控以及怀疑和交叉怀疑的积累，它们涉及，相比之下你会认为我温和。

‘Perhaps so,’ said I. ‘But do you think that, among those many papers, there is much truth and justice, Richard?’
“也许是这样，”我说，“但是理查德，你认为在这么多的报纸中，有多少真相和正义吗？”

‘There is truth and justice somewhere in the case, Esther—‘
“这件事里有真相和正义，埃丝特——”

‘Or was once, long ago,’ said I.
“或者曾经是，很久以前，”我说。

‘Is—is—must be somewhere,’ pursued Richard impetuously, ‘and must be brought out. To allow Ada to be made a bribe and hush-money of is not the way to bring it out. You say the suit is changing me; John Jarndyce says it changes, has changed, and will change everybody who has any share in it. Then the greater right I have on my side when I resolve to do all I can to bring it to an end.’
“是——是——一定在某个地方，”理查德急躁地追问，“而且必须被带出来。让艾达受到贿赂和封口费并不是揭露真相的方法。你说西装正在改变我；约翰·贾迪斯 (John Jardyce) 表示，它正在改变，已经改变，并将改变所有参与其中的人。当我决心尽我所能结束这一切时，我就拥有更大的权利。

‘All you can, Richard! Do you think that in these many years no others have done all they could? Has the difficulty grown easier because of so many failures?’
“尽你所能，理查德！你以为这么多年没有人做到了？是不是因为失败了这么多次，难度变得更容易了？

‘It can’t last for ever,’ returned Richard with a fierceness kindling in him which again presented to me that last sad reminder. ‘I am young and earnest, and energy and determination have done wonders many a time. Others have only half thrown themselves into it. I devote myself to it. I make it the object of my life.’
“这不可能永远持续下去，”理查德回答道，他的内心燃起一股凶猛的火焰，这再次向我展示了最后的悲伤提醒。 “我年轻而认真，精力和决心多次创造了奇迹。其他人只投入了一半。我全身心投入其中。我把它作为我一生的目标。

‘Oh, Richard, my dear, so much the worse, so much the worse!’
“噢，理查德，亲爱的，更糟糕​​了，更糟糕了！”

‘No, no, no, don’t you be afraid for me,’ he returned affectionately. ‘You’re a dear, good, wise, quiet, blessed girl; but you have your prepossessions. So I come round to John Jarndyce. I tell you, my good Esther, when he and I were on those terms which he found so convenient, we were not on natural terms.’
“不，不，不，你不用为我担心，”他深情地回答道。 “你是一个亲爱的、善良的、聪明的、安静的、有福的女孩；但你有你的成见。所以我转向约翰·贾迪斯。我告诉你，我亲爱的埃丝特，当他和我以他认为如此方便的方式相处时，我们的关系并不是自然的。

‘Are division and animosity your natural terms, Richard?’
“理查德，分裂和敌意是你的自然用语吗？”

‘No, I don’t say that. I mean that all this business puts us on unnatural terms, with which natural relations are incompatible. See another reason for urging it on! I may find out when it’s over that I have been mistaken in John Jarndyce. My head may be clearer when I am free of it, and I may then agree with what you say today. Very well. Then I shall acknowledge it and make him reparation.’
‘不，我没这么说。我的意思是，所有这些事情都让我们处于不自然的状态，与自然关系不相容。看看另一个催促它的理由！当事情结束时我可能会发现我对约翰·贾迪斯的看法是错误的。当我摆脱它时，我的头脑可能会更清晰，然后我可能会同意你今天所说的。很好。那我就承认并赔偿他。

Everything postponed to that imaginary time! Everything held in confusion and indecision until then!
一切都推迟到那个想象的时间！直到那时，一切都处于混乱和犹豫之中！

‘Now, my best of confidantes,’ said Richard, ‘I want my cousin Ada to understand that I am not captious, fickle, and wilful about John Jarndyce, but that I have this purpose and reason at my back. I wish to represent myself to her through you, because she has a great esteem and respect for her cousin John; and I know you will soften the course I take, even though you disapprove of it; and— and in short,’ said Richard, who had been hesitating through these words, ‘I—I don’t like to represent myself in this litigious, contentious, doubting character to a confiding girl like Ada,’
“现在，我最好的知己，”理查德说，“我希望我的表弟艾达明白，我对约翰·贾迪斯并不挑剔、善变和任性，但我背后有这个目的和理由。我希望通过你向她代表我自己，因为她非常尊重她的表弟约翰；我知道你会软化我所采取的方针，尽管你不赞成。而且——简而言之，”理查德说，他在说这些话时一直犹豫不决，“我——我不喜欢在艾达这样一个倾心倾诉的女孩面前表现出这种爱打官司、好争论、多疑的性格。”

I told him that he was more like himself in those latter words than in anything he had said yet.
我告诉他，后面这句话比他之前说过的任何话都更像他自己。

‘Why,’ acknowledged Richard, ‘that may be true enough, my love. I rather feel it to be so. But I shall be able to give myself fairplay by and by. I shall come all right again, then, don’t you be afraid.’
“为什么，”理查德承认，“这可能是真的，我的爱人。我倒是这么觉得。但我很快就能给自己公平竞争的机会。那我一定会再来的，你别害怕。

I asked him if this were all he wished me to tell Ada.
我问他这是否就是他希望我告诉艾达的全部内容。

‘Not quite,’ said Richard. ‘I am bound not to withhold from her that John Jarndyce answered my letter in his usual manner, addressing me as ‘My dear Rick,’ trying to argue me out of my opinions, and telling me that they should make no difference in him. (All very well of course, but not altering the case.) I also want Ada to know that if I see her seldom just now, I am looking after her interests as well as my own—we two being in the same boat exactly—and that I hope she will not suppose from any flying rumours she may hear that I am at all light-headed or imprudent; on the contrary, I am always looking forward to the termination of the suit, and always planning in that direction. Being of age now and having taken the step I have taken, I consider myself free from any accountability to John Jarndyce; but Ada being still a ward of the court, I don’t yet ask her to renew our engagement. When she is free to act for herself, I shall be myself once more and we shall both be in very different worldly circumstances, I believe. If you tell her all this with the advantage of your considerate way, you will do me a very great and a very kind service, my dear Esther; and I shall knock Jarndyce and Jarndyce on the head with greater vigour. Of course I ask for no secrecy at Bleak House.’
“不完全是，”理查德说。 “我一定不会向她隐瞒，约翰·贾迪斯以他一贯的方式回了我的信，称我为‘我亲爱的里克’，试图说服我放弃我的观点，并告诉我这些观点对他来说不应该有什么影响。” （当然一切都很好，但不会改变情况。）我也想让艾达知道，如果我现在很少见到她，我会照顾她的利益以及我自己的利益——我们两个完全在同一条船上——我希望她不会因为任何流言蜚语而认为我是轻率或轻率的人。相反，我一直期待着诉讼的终止，并一直朝着这个方向进行规划。现在我已经成年，并且已经迈出了我所迈出的一步，我认为自己不再需要对约翰·贾迪斯承担任何责任；但艾达仍然是法庭的受监护人，我还没有要求她续订我们的婚约。当她可以自由地为自己行动时，我将再次成为我自己，我相信我们都将处于截然不同的世俗环境中。如果你以你体贴的方式告诉她这一切，我亲爱的埃丝特，你将为我提供非常伟大和非常友善的服务。我会用更大的力气敲加迪斯和加迪斯的头。当然，我不要求《荒凉山庄》保密。

‘Richard,’ said I, ‘you place great confidence in me, but I fear you will not take advice from me?’
“理查德，”我说，“你对我很有信心，但我担心你不会接受我的建议？”

‘It’s impossible that I can on this subject, my dear girl. On any other, readily.’
“我不可能回答这个问题，我亲爱的女孩。在任何其他方面，都很容易。

As if there were any other in his life! As if his whole career and character were not being dyed one colour!
就好像他的生命中还有其他人一样！仿佛他的整个事业和性格都没有被染成一种颜色！

‘But I may ask you a question, Richard?’
“但是我可以问你一个问题吗，理查德？”

‘I think so,’ said he, laughing. ‘I don’t know who may not, if you may not.’
“我想是的，”他笑着说。 “我不知道谁会不会，如果你不会的话。”

‘You say, yourself, you are not leading a very settled life.’
“你自己说，你的生活并不安定。”

‘How can I, my dear Esther, with nothing settled!’
“亲爱的艾丝特，我怎么可能什么事都没有解决呢！”

‘Are you in debt again?’
“你又欠债了吗？”

‘Why, of course I am,’ said Richard, astonished at my simplicity.
“啊，我当然是，”理查德说，他对我的简单感到惊讶。

‘Is it of course?’
“当然是这样吗？”

‘My dear child, certainly. I can’t throw myself into an object so completely without expense. You forget, or perhaps you don’t know, that under either of the wills Ada and I take something. It’s only a question between the larger sum and the smaller. I shall be within the mark any way. Bless your heart, my excellent girl,’ said Richard, quite amused with me, ‘I shall be all right! I shall pull through, my dear!’
“我亲爱的孩子，当然。我不可能不花钱就如此彻底地投入到一个物体中。你忘记了，或者也许你不知道，根据艾达和我的任何一份遗嘱，我都会带走一些东西。这只是较大金额和较小金额之间的问题。无论如何，我都会在目标之内。保佑你的心，我优秀的女孩，”理查德说，对我很有趣，“我会没事的！我会挺过去的，亲爱的！

I felt so deeply sensible of the danger in which he stood that I tried, in Ada’s name, in my guardian’s, in my own, by every fervent means that I could think of, to warn him of it and to show him some of his mistakes. He received everything I said with patience and gentleness, but it all rebounded from him without taking the least effect. I could not wonder at this after the reception his preoccupied mind had given to my guardian’s letter, but I determined to try Ada’s influence yet.
我深深地意识到他所处的危险，所以我试图以艾达的名义，以我监护人的名义，以我自己的名义，通过我能想到的一切热切手段，警告他这一点，并向他展示他的一些错误。他耐心而温柔地接受了我所说的一切，但这一切都从他身上反弹了出去，没有起到丝毫作用。在他全神贯注地接收了我监护人的信后，我对此并不感到奇怪，但我决定尝试一下艾达的影响力。

So when our walk brought us round to the village again, and I went home to breakfast, I prepared Ada for the account I was going to give her and told her exactly what reason we had to dread that Richard was losing himself and scattering his whole life to the winds. It made her very unhappy, of course, though she had a far, far greater reliance on his correcting his errors than I could have—which was so natural and loving in my dear!—and she presently wrote him this little letter:
因此，当我们再次步行到村庄时，我回家吃早餐时，我为艾达准备了我要给她的帐单，并告诉她我们到底有什么理由担心理查德会迷失自己并分散他的全部。生命随风而去。当然，这让她非常不高兴，尽管她比我更加依赖他纠正自己的错误——这对我亲爱的人来说是多么自然和充满爱！——她很快就给他写了这封小信：

My dearest cousin,
我最亲爱的表弟，

Esther has told me all you said to her this morning. I write this to repeat most earnestly for myself all that she said to you and to let you know how sure I am that you will sooner or later find our cousin John a pattern of truth, sincerity, and goodness, when you will deeply, deeply grieve to have done him (without intending it) so much wrong.
艾斯特已经告诉我你今天早上对她说的一切了。我写这篇文章是为了最诚挚地为自己重复她对你说的一切，并让你知道我有多么确信你迟早会发现我们的表弟约翰是一个真理、真诚和善良的典范，当你深深地、深深地为自己（无意中）对他造成如此大的伤害而感到悲伤。

I do not quite know how to write what I wish to say next, but I trust you will understand it as I mean it. I have some fears, my dearest cousin, that it may be partly for my sake you are now laying up so much unhappiness for yourself—and if for yourself, for me. In case this should be so, or in case you should entertain much thought of me in what you are doing, I most earnestly entreat and beg you to desist. You can do nothing for my sake that will make me half so happy as for ever turning your back upon the shadow in which we both were born. Do not be angry with me for saying this. Pray, pray, dear Richard, for my sake, and for your own, and in a natural repugnance for that source of trouble which had its share in making us both orphans when we were very young, pray, pray, let it go for ever. We have reason to know by this time that there is no good in it and no hope, that there is nothing to be got from it but sorrow.
我不太知道接下来要说什么，但我相信你会明白我的意思。我最亲爱的表弟，我有些担心，你现在为自己积攒了如此多的不幸，可能部分是为了我——如果是为了你自己，也是为了我。如果情况确实如此，或者万一你在做的事情上过多地考虑我，我恳切地恳求你停止这样做。为了我，你做的任何事情都比永远背弃我们出生的阴影更让我高兴。不要因为我这么说而生气。祈祷，祈祷，亲爱的理查德，为了我，也为了你自己，并且出于对那些在我们很小的时候使我们成为孤儿的麻烦根源的自然厌恶，祈祷，祈祷，让它永远消失。此时我们有理由知道，它没有任何好处，也没有希望，除了悲伤之外什么也得不到。

My dearest cousin, it is needless for me to say that you are quite free and that it is very likely you may find some one whom you will love much better than your first fancy. I am quite sure, if you will let me say so, that the object of your choice would greatly prefer to follow your fortunes far and wide, however moderate or poor, and see you happy, doing your duty and pursuing your chosen way, than to have the hope of being, or even to be, very rich with you (if such a thing were possible) at the cost of dragging years of procrastination and anxiety and of your indifference to other aims. You may wonder at my saying this so confidently with so little knowledge or experience, but I know it for a certainty from my own heart.
我最亲爱的表弟，不用我说，你很自由​​，你很可能会找到一个你会比你最初喜欢的人更爱的人。我很确定，如果你让我这么说的话，你选择的对象更愿意跟随你的命运走远，无论多么温和或贫穷，看到你幸福，尽你的职责，追求你选择的道路，而不是希望和你一起变得非常富有，甚至变得非常富有（如果这样的事情可能的话），但代价是多年的拖延和焦虑以及对其他目标的冷漠。你可能会对我如此自信地说出这样的话感到惊讶，因为我的知识和经验很少，但我内心确信这一点。

Ever, my dearest cousin, your most affectionate
永远，我最亲爱的表弟，你最深情的

Ada
艾达

This note brought Richard to us very soon, but it made little change in him if any. We would fairly try, he said, who was right and who was wrong—he would show us—we should see! He was animated and glowing, as if Ada’s tenderness had gratified him; but I could only hope, with a sigh, that the letter might have some stronger effect upon his mind on re-perusal than it assuredly had then.
这张便条很快就把理查德带到了我们身边，但这对他来说几乎没有任何改变。他说，我们会公平地尝试，谁是对的，谁是错的——他会告诉我们——我们应该看看！他神采飞扬，容光焕发，仿佛艾达的温柔让他感到满意。但我只能叹了口气，希望这封信在他重读时可能会比当时确实产生更强烈的影响。

As they were to remain with us that day and had taken their places to return by the coach next morning, I sought an opportunity of speaking to Mr. Skimpole. Our out-of-door life easily threw one in my way, and I delicately said that there was a responsibility in encouraging Richard.
由于那天他们要留在我们身边，并在第二天早上乘车返回，我寻找机会与斯基姆波尔先生交谈。我们的户外生活很容易给我带来障碍，我委婉地说，鼓励理查德是我的责任。

‘Responsibility, my dear Miss Summerson?’ he repeated, catching at the word with the pleasantest smile. ‘I am the last man in the world for such a thing. I never was responsible in my life—I can’t be.’
“责任，我亲爱的萨默森小姐？”他重复道，听到这个词时露出最愉快的微笑。 “我是世界上最后一个做这种事的人。我一生中从来没有负过责任——我不能。”

‘I am afraid everybody is obliged to be,’ said I timidly enough, he being so much older and more clever than I.
“恐怕每个人都不得不这样做，”我胆怯地说，他比我年长得多，也比我聪明。

‘No, really?’ said Mr. Skimpole, receiving this new light with a most agreeable jocularity of surprise. ‘But every man’s not obliged to be solvent? I am not. I never was. See, my dear Miss Summerson,’ he took a handful of loose silver and halfpence from his pocket, ‘there’s so much money. I have not an idea how much. I have not the power of counting. Call it four and ninepence—call it four pound nine. They tell me I owe more than that. I dare say I do. I dare say I owe as much as good-natured people will let me owe. If they don’t stop, why should I? There you have Harold Skimpole in little. If that’s responsibility, I am responsible.’
“不，真的吗？”斯金波尔先生说，他带着一种最愉快的、幽默的惊喜接受了这个新的认识。 “但是每个人都没有义务有偿付能力吗？我不是。我从来没有。你瞧，我亲爱的萨默森小姐，”他从口袋里掏出一把零散的银子和半便士，“钱真多。我不知道多少钱。我没有数数的能力。称之为四九便士——称之为四先令九。他们告诉我，我欠的还不止这些。我敢说我愿意。我敢说，善良的人让我欠多少，我就欠多少。如果他们不停止，我为什么要停止？哈罗德·斯金波尔（Harold Skimpole）在《小小》里扮演了这样的角色。如果这就是责任，那我就负责。

The perfect ease of manner with which he put the money up again and looked at me with a smile on his refined face, as if he had been mentioning a curious little fact about somebody else, almost made me feel as if he really had nothing to do with it.
他再次把钱放起来，优雅的脸上带着微笑看着我，态度非常从容，仿佛他在提到别人的一个奇怪的小事实，几乎让我觉得他真的没什么可说的。用它来做。

‘Now, when you mention responsibility,’ he resumed, ‘I am disposed to say that I never had the happiness of knowing any one whom I should consider so refreshingly responsible as yourself. You appear to me to be the very touchstone of responsibility. When I see you, my dear Miss Summerson, intent upon the perfect working of the whole little orderly system of which you are the centre, I feel inclined to say to myself—in fact I do say to myself very often— THAT’S responsibility!’
“现在，当你提到责任时，”他继续说道，“我想说，我从未有幸认识任何一个我认为像你这样有责任感的人。在我看来，你就是责任的试金石。当我看到你，我亲爱的萨默森小姐，专注于以你为中心的整个小而有序的系统的完美运作时，我想对自己说——事实上我确实经常对自己说——这就是责任！

It was difficult, after this, to explain what I meant; but I persisted so far as to say that we all hoped he would check and not confirm Richard in the sanguine views he entertained just then.
此后，很难解释我的意思。但我坚持说，我们都希望他能检查一下，而不是证实理查德当时所抱有的乐观观点。

‘Most willingly,’ he retorted, ‘if I could. But, my dear Miss Summerson, I have no art, no disguise. If he takes me by the hand and leads me through Westminster Hall in an airy procession after fortune, I must go. If he says, ‘Skimpole, join the dance!’ I must join it. Common sense wouldn’t, I know, but I have NO common sense.’
“我非常愿意，”他反驳道，“如果可以的话。”但是，我亲爱的萨默森小姐，我没有艺术，没有伪装。如果他牵着我的手，带领我在威斯敏斯特大厅里以轻快的行列追寻命运，我就必须走。如果他说：“斯金波尔，加入舞会！”我就必须加入。我知道，常识不会，但我没有常识。

It was very unfortunate for Richard, I said.
我说，这对理查德来说非常不幸。

‘Do you think so!’ returned Mr. Skimpole. ‘Don’t say that, don’t say that. Let us suppose him keeping company with Common Sense—an excellent man—a good deal wrinkled—dreadfully practical—change for a ten-pound note in every pocket—ruled account-book in his hand—say, upon the whole, resembling a tax-gatherer. Our dear Richard, sanguine, ardent, overleaping obstacles, bursting with poetry like a young bud, says to this highly respectable companion, ‘I see a golden prospect before me; it’s very bright, it’s very beautiful, it’s very joyous; here I go, bounding over the landscape to come at it!’ The respectable companion instantly knocks him down with the ruled account-book; tells him in a literal, prosaic way that he sees no such thing; shows him it’s nothing but fees, fraud, horsehair wigs, and black gowns. Now you know that’s a painful change—sensible in the last degree, I have no doubt, but disagreeable. I can’t do it. I haven’t got the ruled accountbook, I have none of the tax-gatherlng elements in my composition, I am not at all respectable, and I don’t want to be. Odd perhaps, but so it is!’
“你这么认为吗？”斯金波尔先生回答道。 ‘别这么说，别这么说。让我们假设他与常识为伴——一个优秀的人——满脸皱纹——非常实用——每个口袋里都装着一张十英镑的零钱——他手里拿着一本规则的账簿——比如说，总的来说，就像一份税收-收集者。我们亲爱的理查德，乐观、热情、跨越障碍，像年轻的花蕾一样充满诗意，对这位备受尊敬的同伴说：“我看到了一片金色的前景；它非常明亮，非常美丽，非常欢乐； “我来了，越过这片风景来找它！”那位可敬的同伴立刻用那本划线的账本把他打倒了；以字面意义、平淡无奇的方式告诉他，他没有看到这样的事情；向他表明这只不过是费用、欺诈、马毛假发和黑色礼服。现在你知道这是一个痛苦的改变——我毫不怀疑，从最后的角度来看，这是明智的，但却是令人不快的。我做不到。我没有规定的账簿，我的作文中没有任何征税元素，我一点也不受人尊敬，而且我也不想受人尊敬。也许很奇怪，但事实就是如此！

It was idle to say more, so I proposed that we should join Ada and Richard, who were a little in advance, and I gave up Mr. Skimpole in despair. He had been over the Hall in the course of the morning and whimsically described the family pictures as we walked. There were such portentous shepherdesses among the Ladies Dedlock dead and gone, he told us, that peaceful crooks became weapons of assault in their hands. They tended their flocks severely in buckram and powder and put their sticking-plaster patches on to terrify commoners as the chiefs of some other tribes put on their war-paint. There was a Sir Somebody Dedlock, with a battle, a sprung-mine, volumes of smoke, flashes of lightning, a town on fire, and a stormed fort, all in full action between his horse’s two hind legs, showing, he supposed, how little a Dedlock made of such trifles. The whole race he represented as having evidently been, in life, what he called ‘stuffed people’—a large collection, glassy eyed, set up in the most approved manner on their various twigs and perches, very correct, perfectly free from animation, and always in glass cases.
懒得再多说了，于是我提议跟提前一点的艾达和理查德一起，绝望地放弃了斯金波尔先生。他整个上午都在大厅里，边走边异想天开地描述了家庭照片。他告诉我们，戴德洛克夫人中有一些凶恶的牧羊女已经死了，走了，和平的骗子成了她们手中的攻击武器。他们用布克拉姆和粉末严格地照料羊群，并贴上橡皮膏来吓唬平民，就像其他一些部落的酋长涂上战争涂料一样。有一位戴德洛克爵士，正在进行一场战斗，一个弹簧地雷，大量的烟雾，闪电，一座着火的城镇，一座被攻陷的堡垒，所有这些都在他的马的两条后腿之间展开，显示出，他猜想，戴德洛克的这些琐事是多么少啊。他所描绘的整个种族在生活中显然就是他所谓的“填充人”——一大群，目光呆滞，以最认可的方式建立在他们的各种树枝和栖息处，非常正确，完全没有动画，并且总是放在玻璃柜里。

I was not so easy now during any reference to the name but that I felt it a relief when Richard, with an exclamation of surprise, hurried away to meet a stranger whom he first descried coming slowly towards us.
现在，当我提到这个名字时，我就不那么轻松了，但当理查德带着一声惊讶的感叹，匆匆走开去见一个陌生人时，我感到一种解脱，他第一次看到这个陌生人慢慢地向我们走来。

‘Dear me!’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘Vholes!’
“天啊！”斯金波尔先生说。 “Vholes！”

We asked if that were a friend of Richard’s.
我们问那是不是理查德的朋友。

‘Friend and legal adviser,’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘Now, my dear Miss Summerson, if you want common sense, responsibility, and respectability, all united—if you want an exemplary man—Vholes is THE man.’
“朋友和法律顾问，”斯金波尔先生说。 “现在，我亲爱的萨默森小姐，如果你想要常识、责任和尊重，所有这些都团结起来——如果你想要一个模范男人——沃尔斯就是那个人。”

We had not known, we said, that Richard was assisted by any gentleman of that name.
我们说，我们不知道理查德得到过同名绅士的协助。

‘When he emerged from legal infancy,’ returned Mr. Skimpole, ‘he parted from our conversational friend Kenge and took up, I believe, with Vholes. Indeed, I know he did, because I introduced him to Vholes.’
“当他从合法的婴儿期出来时，”斯金波尔先生回答道，“他离开了我们健谈的朋友肯格，我相信，他和弗霍尔斯在一起了。”事实上，我知道他做到了，因为我把他介绍给了沃尔斯。

‘Had you known him long?’ asked Ada.
“你认识他很久了吗？”艾达问。

‘Vholes? My dear Miss Clare, I had had that kind of acquaintance with him which I have had with several gentlemen of his profession. He had done something or other in a very agreeable, civil manner— taken proceedings, I think, is the expression—which ended in the proceeding of his taking ME. Somebody was so good as to step in and pay the money—something and fourpence was the amount; I forget the pounds and shillings, but I know it ended with fourpence, because it struck me at the time as being so odd that I could owe anybody fourpence—and after that I brought them together. Vholes asked me for the introduction, and I gave it. Now I come to think of it,’ he looked inquiringly at us with his frankest smile as he made the discovery, ‘Vholes bribed me, perhaps? He gave me something and called it commission. Was it a five-pound note? Do you know, I think it MUST have been a five-pound note!’
‘维霍尔斯？我亲爱的克莱尔小姐，我对他的了解就像我对他这个职业的几位绅士的了解一样。他以一种非常令人愉快、文明的方式做了某件事——我想，这就是“采取诉讼程序”的表达方式——最终以他带走我的诉讼程序告终。有人好心介入并付了钱——金额是四便士。我忘记了英镑和先令，但我知道最后是四便士，因为当时我觉得很奇怪，我可以欠任何人四便士——之后我把它们放在一起。沃尔斯请我做介绍，我做了介绍。现在我想起来了，”当他发现这一点时，他带着最坦率的微笑询问地看着我们，“也许是沃勒斯贿赂了我？他给了我一些东西，称之为佣金。这是一张五英镑的纸币吗？你知道吗，我想这一定是一张五英镑的钞票！

His further consideration of the point was prevented by Richard’s coming back to us in an excited state and hastily representing Mr. Vholes—a sallow man with pinched lips that looked as if they were cold, a red eruption here and there upon his face, tall and thin, about fifty years of age, high-shouldered, and stooping. Dressed in black, black-gloved, and buttoned to the chin, there was nothing so remarkable in him as a lifeless manner and a slow, fixed way he had of looking at Richard.
理查德回到我们身边，心情激动，急忙为沃尔斯先生做代表，这阻止了他对这一点的进一步思考。身材瘦削，五十岁左右，肩膀高，弯腰。他穿着黑色衣服，戴着黑色手套，扣子一直扣到下巴，没有什么比他看理查德时那种毫无生气的态度和缓慢而固定的眼神更引人注目的了。

‘I hope I don’t disturb you, ladies,’ said Mr. Vholes, and now I observed that he was further remarkable for an inward manner of speaking. ‘I arranged with Mr. Carstone that he should always know when his cause was in the Chancelor’s paper, and being informed by one of my clerks last night after post time that it stood, rather unexpectedly, in the paper for to-morrow, I put myself into the coach early this morning and came down to confer with him.’
“女士们，我希望我不会打扰你们。”沃尔斯先生说道，现在我发现他的说话方式更加内向。 “我和卡斯通先生约定，当他的事业出现在大法官的报纸上时，他应该总是知道，昨晚发帖时间后，我的一位职员告诉我，出乎意料的是，它出现在明天的报纸上，我今天一早我就上了车，下来和他商量。”

‘Yes,’ said Richard, flushed, and looking triumphantly at Ada and me, ‘we don’t do these things in the old slow way now. We spin along now! Mr. Vholes, we must hire something to get over to the post town in, and catch the mail to-night, and go up by it!’
“是的，”理查德红着脸说道，得意地看着艾达和我，“我们现在不再用旧的缓慢方式做这些事情了。我们现在就一起旋转吧！沃尔斯先生，我们必须租个东西去邮局，今晚去取邮件，然后就上去！

‘Anything you please, sir,’ returned Mr. Vholes. ‘I am quite at your service.’
“随您便，先生，”沃尔斯先生回答道。 “我非常乐意为您服务。”

‘Let me see,’ said Richard, looking at his watch. ‘If I run down to the Dedlock, and get my portmanteau fastened up, and order a gig, or a chaise, or whatever’s to be got, we shall have an hour then before starting. I’ll come back to tea. Cousin Ada, will you and Esther take care of Mr. Vholes when I am gone?’
“让我看看，”理查德看着手表说道。 “如果我跑到戴德洛克，把我的手提包系紧，订购一辆平底车、一辆躺椅或任何需要的东西，那么我们在出发前将有一个小时的时间。我会回来喝茶。艾达表姐，我走后你和埃丝特会照顾沃尔斯先生吗？

He was away directly, in his heat and hurry, and was soon lost in the dusk of evening. We who were left walked on towards the house.
他又热又急，直接走了，很快就迷失在傍晚的暮色中。我们剩下的人继续朝房子走去。

‘Is Mr. Carstone’s presence necessary to-morrow, Sir?’ said I. ‘Can it do any good?’
“先生，卡斯通先生明天必须到场吗？”我说，“这有什么好处吗？”

‘No, miss,’ Mr. Vholes replied. ‘I am not aware that it can.’
“不，小姐，”沃尔斯先生回答道。 “我不知道它可以。”

Both Ada and I expressed our regret that he should go, then, only to be disappointed.
艾达和我都对他的离开表示遗憾，结果却很失望。

‘Mr. Carstone has laid down the principle of watching his own interests,’ said Mr. Vholes, ‘and when a client lays down his own principle, and it is not immoral, it devolves upon me to carry it out. I wish in business to be exact and open. I am a widower with three daughters—Emma, Jane, and Caroline—and my desire is so to discharge the duties of life as to leave them a good name. This appears to be a pleasant spot, miss.’
'先生。卡斯通制定了关注自己利益的原则，”沃尔斯先生说，“当客户制定了自己的原则，并且这并不不道德时，我就负责执行它。我希望在生意上做到精确和开放。我是一个鳏夫，有三个女儿——艾玛、简和卡罗琳——我的愿望是履行生活的职责，为她们留下好名声。这似乎是一个令人愉快的地方，小姐。”

The remark being made to me in consequence of my being next him as we walked, I assented and enumerated its chief attractions.
由于我们走路时我就在他旁边，有人对我说这句话，我同意并列举了它的主要景点。

‘Indeed?’ said Mr. Vholes. ‘I have the privilege of supporting an aged father in the Vale of Taunton—his native place—and I admire that country very much. I had no idea there was anything so attractive here.’
“真的吗？”沃尔斯先生说。 “我有幸在汤顿谷（他的故乡）赡养一位年老的父亲，我非常钦佩那个国家。我不知道这里有这么吸引人的东西。”

To keep up the conversation, I asked Mr. Vholes if he would like to live altogether in the country.
为了继续谈话，我问沃尔斯先生是否愿意完全住在乡下。

‘There, miss,’ said he, ‘you touch me on a tender string. My health is not good (my digestion being much impaired), and if I had only myself to consider, I should take refuge in rural habits, especially as the cares of business have prevented me from ever coming much into contact with general society, and particularly with ladies’ society, which I have most wished to mix in. But with my three daughters, Emma, Jane, and Caroline—and my aged father—I cannot afford to be selfish. It is true I have no longer to maintain a dear grandmother who died in her hundred and second year, but enough remains to render it indispensable that the mill should be always going.’
“好了，小姐，”他说，“你用一根柔软的绳子抚摸着我。”我的身体不好（消化功能严重受损），如果只考虑自己的话，我应该逃避农村的习惯，尤其是因为生意的烦恼使我无法与社会有太多的接触，而且但对于我的三个女儿艾玛、简和卡罗琳以及我年迈的父亲来说，我不能自私。确实，我已经无法再赡养一位在一百零二岁就去世的亲爱的祖母了，但剩下的遗物足以使磨坊永远运转下去，变得不可或缺。

It required some attention to hear him on account of his inward speaking and his lifeless manner.
由于他内心的说话和死气沉沉的态度，需要花一些注意力才能听到他的声音。

‘You will excuse my having mentioned my daughters,’ he said. ‘They are my weak point. I wish to leave the poor girls some little independence, as well as a good name.’
“请原谅我提到了我的女儿们，”他说。 ‘它们是我的弱点。我希望给这些可怜的女孩留下一些独立的空间，以及一个好名声。”

We now arrived at Mr. Boythorn’s house, where the tea-table, all prepared, was awaiting us. Richard came in restless and hurried shortly afterwards, and leaning over Mr. Vholes’s chair, whispered something in his ear. Mr. Vholes replied aloud—or as nearly aloud I suppose as he had ever replied to anything—‘You will drive me, will you, sir? It is all the same to me, sir. Anything you please. I am quite at your service.’
现在我们到达了博伊索恩先生的家，茶桌已经准备好了，正在等待着我们。不久之后，理查德焦躁不安地匆匆进来，靠在沃尔斯先生的椅子上，在他耳边低声说了些什么。沃尔斯先生大声回答——或者​​我想他几乎是大声回答任何事情——“你会开车送我，是吗，先生？先生，这对我来说都是一样的。随你便。我非常乐意为您服务。

We understood from what followed that Mr. Skimpole was to be left until the morning to occupy the two places which had been already paid for. As Ada and I were both in low spirits concerning Richard and very sorry so to part with him, we made it as plain as we politely could that we should leave Mr. Skimpole to the Dedlock Arms and retire when the night-travellers were gone.
从接下来的事情中我们了解到，斯金波尔先生要留到早上，以占据已经支付费用的两个位置。由于艾达和我都因为理查德而情绪低落，并且非常遗憾与他分开，因此我们尽可能礼貌地明确表示，我们应该把斯金波尔先生留在戴德洛克阿姆斯，并在夜间旅行者离开后退休。

Richard’s high spirits carrying everything before them, we all went out together to the top of the hill above the village, where he had ordered a gig to wait and where we found a man with a lantern standing at the head of the gaunt pale horse that had been harnessed to it.
理查德精神抖擞，带着眼前的一切，我们一起出去到了村庄上方的山顶，他叫了一辆马车在那里等候，我们发现一个提着灯笼的男人站在那匹瘦弱的苍白马的头上，已经被它所利用了。

I never shall forget those two seated side by side in the lantern’s light, Richard all flush and fire and laughter, with the reins in his hand; Mr. Vholes quite still, black-gloved, and buttoned up, looking at him as if he were looking at his prey and charming it. I have before me the whole picture of the warm dark night, the summer lightning, the dusty track of road closed in by hedgerows and high trees, the gaunt pale horse with his ears pricked up, and the driving away at speed to Jarndyce and Jarndyce.
我永远不会忘记在灯笼的灯光下并排坐着的两个人，理查德满脸通红，火热而欢笑，手中握着缰绳；沃尔斯先生一动不动，戴着黑手套，扣紧扣子，看着他，就像看着他的猎物并迷住它一样。我眼前浮现出温暖黑夜的全貌，夏日的闪电，被树篱和高树包围的尘土飞扬的小路，竖起耳朵的瘦削苍白马，以及快速驶向加迪斯和加迪斯的景象。 。

My dear girl told me that night how Richard’s being thereafter prosperous or ruined, befriended or deserted, could only make this difference to her, that the more he needed love from one unchanging heart, the more love that unchanging heart would have to give him; how he thought of her through his present errors, and she would think of him at all times—never of herself if she could devote herself to him, never of her own delights if she could minister to his.
那天晚上，我亲爱的女孩告诉我，理查德此后的繁荣或毁灭，被友善或被抛弃，只会对她造成这种影响，他越需要一颗不变的心的爱，那颗不变的心就越需要给予他更多的爱；他如何看待她目前的错误，而她会无时无刻不在想着他——如果她能全身心地为他服务，就永远不会想起自己；如果她能为他服务，她就永远不会想起自己的快乐。

And she kept her word?
她信守诺言吗？

I look along the road before me, where the distance already shortens and the journey’s end is growing visible; and true and good above the dead sea of the Chancery suit and all the ashy fruit it cast ashore, I think I see my darling.
我看着前方的路，距离已经缩短，旅程的终点​​也越来越明显；在大法官官服的死海和它抛到岸上的所有灰烬之上，真实而美好，我想我看到了我的亲爱的。

CHAPTER XXXVIII
第三十八章


A Struggle
斗争

When our time came for returning to Bleak House again, we were punctual to the day and were received with an overpowering welcome. I was perfectly restored to health and strength, and finding my housekeeping keys laid ready for me in my room, rang myself in as if I had been a new year, with a merry little peal. ‘Once more, duty, duty, Esther,’ said I; ‘and if you are not overjoyed to do it, more than cheerfully and contentedly, through anything and everything, you ought to be. That’s all I have to say to you, my dear!’
当我们再次回到荒凉山庄时，我们准时到达并受到了热烈的欢迎。我完全恢复了健康和体力，发现我的房间钥匙已经准备好在我的房间里，我给自己打电话，仿佛我已经迎来了新的一年，伴随着一阵欢快的小响声。 “再说一次，责任，责任，埃丝特，”我说。 “如果你对做这件事不感到欣喜若狂，无论做什么事，你都应该感到非常高兴和满足。”这就是我要对你说的一切，亲爱的！

The first few mornings were mornings of so much bustle and business, devoted to such settlements of accounts, such repeated journeys to and fro between the growlery and all other parts of the house, so many rearrangements of drawers and presses, and such a general new beginning altogether, that I had not a moment’s leisure. But when these arrangements were completed and everything was in order, I paid a visit of a few hours to London, which something in the letter I had destroyed at Chesney Wold had induced me to decide upon in my own mind.
最初的几个早晨是忙碌而忙碌的早晨，专门用于结算帐目，在咆哮室和房子的所有其他部分之间往返往返，对抽屉和压机进行多次重新布置，以及如此普遍的新物品。首先，我没有片刻的闲暇。但当这些安排完成并且一切都井然有序后，我对伦敦进行了几个小时的访问，我在切斯尼沃尔德毁掉的信中的一些内容促使我在自己的头脑中做出了决定。

I made Caddy Jellyby—her maiden name was so natural to me that I always called her by it—the pretext for this visit and wrote her a note previously asking the favour of her company on a little business expedition. Leaving home very early in the morning, I got to London by stage-coach in such good time that I got to Newman Street with the day before me.
我以凯蒂·杰利比（Caddy Jellyby）为这次拜访的借口——她的娘家姓对我来说太自然了，我总是这样称呼她——并给她写了一张便条，请求她的公司在一次小型商业考察中提供帮助。我一早就离开家，乘公共马车到达伦敦，时间非常好，所以我比我前一天到达了纽曼街。

Caddy, who had not seen me since her wedding-day, was so glad and so affectionate that I was half inclined to fear I should make her husband jealous. But he was, in his way, just as bad—I mean as good; and in short it was the old story, and nobody would leave me any possibility of doing anything meritorious.
凯迪自从结婚那天就没有见过我，她是如此高兴，如此深情，以至于我有点担心我会让她丈夫嫉妒。但以他的方式，他也一样坏——我的意思是一样好；总之，这都是老生常谈了，没有人会给我留下做任何有功之事的机会。

The elder Mr. Turveydrop was in bed, I found, and Caddy was milling his chocolate, which a melancholy little boy who was an apprentice —it seemed such a curious thing to be apprenticed to the trade of dancing—was waiting to carry upstairs. Her father-in-law was extremely kind and considerate, Caddy told me, and they lived most happily together. (When she spoke of their living together, she meant that the old gentleman had all the good things and all the good lodging, while she and her husband had what they could get, and were poked into two corner rooms over the Mews.)
我发现，年长的特维德罗普先生已经躺在床上，凯迪正在磨巧克力，一个忧郁的学徒小男孩正等着搬上楼——成为舞蹈行业的学徒似乎是件奇怪的事。卡迪告诉我，她的公公非常善良、体贴，他们在一起生活得很幸福。 （当她谈到他们住在一起时，她的意思是老先生拥有所有好东西和所有好住宿，而她和她丈夫则拥有他们能得到的一切，并被塞进马厩上方的两间角落房间。）

‘And how is your mama, Caddy?’ said I.
“凯迪，你妈妈怎么样？”我说。

‘Why, I hear of her, Esther,’ replied Caddy, ‘through Pa, but I see very little of her. We are good friends, I am glad to say, but Ma thinks there is something absurd in my having married a dancingmaster, and she is rather afraid of its extending to her.’
“哎呀，埃丝特，我通过爸爸听说过她，”凯蒂回答道，“但我很少见到她。我很高兴地说，我们是好朋友，但妈妈认为我嫁给一位舞蹈大师有些荒谬，她很害怕这会延伸到她身上。

It struck me that if Mrs. Jellyby had discharged her own natural duties and obligations before she swept the horizon with a telescope in search of others, she would have taken the best precautions against becoming absurd, but I need scarcely observe that I kept this to myself.
我突然想到，如果杰利比夫人在用望远镜扫视地平线去寻找其他人之前履行了她自己的自然职责和义务，她就会采取最好的预防措施，以免变得荒谬，但我几乎不需要观察到，我保留了这一点我。

‘And your papa, Caddy?’
“你的爸爸呢，凯蒂？”

‘He comes here every evening,’ returned Caddy, ‘and is so fond of sitting in the corner there that it’s a treat to see him.’
“他每天晚上都会来这里，”凯迪回答道，“而且非常喜欢坐在角落里，见到他真是一种享受。”

Looking at the corner, I plainly perceived the mark of Mr. Jellyby’s head against the wall. It was consolatory to know that he had found such a resting-place for it.
朝角落望去，我清楚地看到了杰利比先生的头靠在墙上的痕迹。知道他为它找到了这样一个安息之所，真是令人欣慰。

‘And you, Caddy,’ said I, ‘you are always busy, I’ll be bound?’
“那么你呢，凯迪，”我说，“你总是很忙，我会被束缚吗？”

‘Well, my dear,’ returned Caddy, ‘I am indeed, for to tell you a grand secret, I am qualifying myself to give lessons. Prince’s health is not strong, and I want to be able to assist him. What with schools, and classes here, and private pupils, AND the apprentices, he really has too much to do, poor fellow!’
“好吧，亲爱的，”卡迪回答道，“我确实是这样，因为要告诉你一个重大秘密，我有资格给自己上课。 Prince 的健康状况不佳，我希望能够帮助他。这里有学校、班级、私人学生和学徒，他真的有太多事情要做，可怜的家伙！

The notion of the apprentices was still so odd to me that I asked Caddy if there were many of them.
学徒的概念对我来说仍然很奇怪，所以我问凯迪学徒是否有很多。

‘Four,’ said Caddy. ‘One in-door, and three out. They are very good children; only when they get together they WILL play— children-like—instead of attending to their work. So the little boy you saw just now waltzes by himself in the empty kitchen, and we distribute the others over the house as well as we can.’
“四个，”凯迪说。 “一个在室内，三个在室外。他们都是非常好的孩子；只有当他们聚在一起时，他们才会像孩子一样玩耍，而不是专注于工作。所以你刚才看到的那个小男孩在空荡荡的厨房里独自跳着华尔兹，我们尽可能地将其他人分发到房子里。

‘That is only for their steps, of course?’ said I.
“当然，那只是为了他们的脚步？”我说。

‘Only for their steps,’ said Caddy. ‘In that way they practise, so many hours at a time, whatever steps they happen to be upon. They dance in the academy, and at this time of year we do figures at five every morning.’
“只是为了他们的脚步，”凯迪说。 “他们就这样练习，一次练习几个小时，无论他们走的是哪一步。他们在学院里跳舞，每年的这个时候我们每天早上五点都会跳舞。”

‘Why, what a laborious life!’ I exclaimed.
“哎呀，真是辛苦的生活啊！”我惊呼道。

‘I assure you, my dear,’ returned Caddy, smiling, ‘when the outdoor apprentices ring us up in the morning (the bell rings into our room, not to disturb old Mr. Turveydrop), and when I put up the window and see them standing on the door-step with their little pumps under their arms, I am actually reminded of the Sweeps.’
“我向你保证，亲爱的，”卡迪微笑着回答，“当户外学徒早上给我们打电话时（门铃响到我们的房间，不要打扰老特维德罗普先生），当我把窗户打开并看到他们腋下夹着小泵站在门口，我真的想起了 Sweeps。

All this presented the art to me in a singular light, to be sure. Caddy enjoyed the effect of her communication and cheerfully recounted the particulars of her own studies.
可以肯定的是，所有这些都以独特的方式向我展示了艺术。凯蒂很享受这次交流的效果，并愉快地讲述了自己的学习细节。

‘You see, my dear, to save expense I ought to know something of the piano, and I ought to know something of the kit too, and consequently I have to practise those two instruments as well as the details of our profession. If Ma had been like anybody else, I might have had some little musical knowledge to begin upon. However, I hadn’t any; and that part of the work is, at first, a little discouraging, I must allow. But I have a very good ear, and I am used to drudgery—I have to thank Ma for that, at all events— and where there’s a will there’s a way, you know, Esther, the world over.’ Saying these words, Caddy laughingly sat down at a little jingling square piano and really rattled off a quadrille with great spirit. Then she good-humouredly and blushingly got up again, and while she still laughed herself, said, ‘Don’t laugh at me, please; that’s a dear girl!’
“你看，亲爱的，为了节省开支，我应该了解一些钢琴知识，我也应该了解一些套件，因此我必须练习这两种乐器以及我们职业的细节。如果妈妈像其他人一样，我可能会具备一些音乐知识。然而，我什么也没有；我必须承认，这部分工作一开始有点令人沮丧。但我有很好的耳朵，而且我习惯了苦差事——无论如何，我必须为此感谢妈妈——有志者事竟成，你知道，埃丝特，全世界。”说着这些话，凯迪笑着坐在一架叮当作响的小方钢琴前，精神抖擞地弹奏了一首四边形舞曲。然后她又好脾气地红着脸站起来，一边笑一边说：“请不要笑我，我不会笑的。”那是一个亲爱的女孩！

I would sooner have cried, but I did neither. I encouraged her and praised her with all my heart. For I conscientiously believed, dancing-master’s wife though she was, and dancing-mistress though in her limited ambition she aspired to be, she had struck out a natural, wholesome, loving course of industry and perseverance that was quite as good as a mission.
我本来想哭，但我什么也没哭。我全心全意地鼓励她、表扬她。因为我认真地相信，尽管她是舞蹈大师的妻子，尽管她渴望成为舞蹈大师的野心有限，但她已经通过勤奋和毅力走出了一条自然、健康、充满爱心的道路，这就像一项使命一样美好。

‘My dear,’ said Caddy, delighted, ‘you can’t think how you cheer me. I shall owe you, you don’t know how much. What changes, Esther, even in my small world! You recollect that first night, when I was so unpolite and inky? Who would have thought, then, of my ever teaching people to dance, of all other possibilities and impossibilities!’
“亲爱的，”凯迪高兴地说，“你想不到你是如何让我高兴的。”我欠你的，你不知道有多少。艾丝特，即使在我的小世界里，也发生了多么大的变化啊！你还记得第一个晚上，当时我如此无礼、阴郁吗？那么，谁会想到我曾经教人们跳舞，以及所有其他的可能性和不可能！

Her husband, who had left us while we had this chat, now coming back, preparatory to exercising the apprentices in the ball-room, Caddy informed me she was quite at my disposal. But it was not my time yet, I was glad to tell her, for I should have been vexed to take her away then. Therefore we three adjourned to the apprentices together, and I made one in the dance.
她的丈夫在我们聊天时离开了我们，现在回来了，准备在舞厅锻炼学徒，凯迪告诉我，她完全听我的指挥。但现在还不是我的时间，我很高兴地告诉她，因为那时我会很烦恼带她走。于是我们三人一起休学徒，我在舞会上做了一个。

The apprentices were the queerest little people. Besides the melancholy boy, who, I hoped, had not been made so by waltzing alone in the empty kitchen, there were two other boys and one dirty little limp girl in a gauzy dress. Such a precocious little girl, with such a dowdy bonnet on (that, too, of a gauzy texture), who brought her sandalled shoes in an old threadbare velvet reticule. Such mean little boys, when they were not dancing, with string, and marbles, and cramp-bones in their pockets, and the most untidy legs and feet—and heels particularly.
学徒们是最奇怪的小人物。除了那个忧郁的男孩——我希望他不是因为在空荡荡的厨房里独自跳华尔兹而变得如此的——之外，还有另外两个男孩和一个穿着薄纱衣服、脏兮兮、跛行的小女孩。这么早熟的小女孩，戴着一顶破旧的帽子（那顶帽子也是薄纱质地的），她把她的凉鞋放在一个破旧的天鹅绒手提袋里。这些卑鄙的小男孩，不跳舞的时候，口袋里揣着绳子、弹珠和抽筋骨头，还有最不整洁的腿和脚——尤其是脚后跟。

I asked Caddy what had made their parents choose this profession for them. Caddy said she didn’t know; perhaps they were designed for teachers, perhaps for the stage. They were all people in humble circumstances, and the melancholy boy’s mother kept a ginger-beer shop.
我问凯迪是什么让他们的父母为他们选择了这个职业。凯迪说她不知道；也许它们是为老师设计的，也许是为舞台设计的。他们都是出身卑微的人，忧郁男孩的母亲经营着一家姜汁啤酒店。

We danced for an hour with great gravity, the melancholy child doing wonders with his lower extremities, in which there appeared to be some sense of enjoyment though it never rose above his waist. Caddy, while she was observant of her husband and was evidently founded upon him, had acquired a grace and self-possession of her own, which, united to her pretty face and figure, was uncommonly agreeable. She already relieved him of much of the instruction of these young people, and he seldom interfered except to walk his part in the figure if he had anything to do in it. He always played the tune. The affectation of the gauzy child, and her condescension to the boys, was a sight. And thus we danced an hour by the clock.
我们很严肃地跳了一个小时，忧郁的孩子用他的下肢创造了奇迹，其中似乎有一些享受的感觉，虽然它从来没有超过他的腰部。凯迪虽然对她的丈夫很细心，而且显然是以他为基础的，但她也获得了自己的优雅和沉着，这与她漂亮的脸蛋和身材结合在一起，非常令人愉快。她已经免除了他对这些年轻人的大部分指导，如果他有什么事要做的话，他很少干涉，除非他在其中扮演了自己的角色。他总是演奏这首曲子。这个薄纱孩子的矫揉造作，以及她对男孩们的居高临下，令人印象深刻。就这样我们按着时钟跳舞了一个小时。

When the practice was concluded, Caddy’s husband made himself ready to go out of town to a school, and Caddy ran away to get ready to go out with me. I sat in the ball-room in the interval, contemplating the apprentices. The two out-door boys went upon the staircase to put on their half-boots and pull the in-door boy’s hair, as I judged from the nature of his objections. Returning with their jackets buttoned and their pumps stuck in them, they then produced packets of cold bread and meat and bivouacked under a painted lyre on the wall. The little gauzy child, having whisked her sandals into the reticule and put on a trodden-down pair of shoes, shook her head into the dowdy bonnet at one shake, and answering my inquiry whether she liked dancing by replying, ‘Not with boys,’ tied it across her chin, and went home contemptuous.
练习结束后，凯迪的丈夫准备出城去学校，凯迪则跑开准备和我一起出去。中场休息时，我坐在舞厅里，凝视着学徒们。两个室外男孩走上楼梯，穿上半靴子，拉扯室内男孩的头发，从他反对的性质来看，我是这样判断的。回来时，他们的夹克扣子扣好，水泵插在里面，然后拿出一包包冷面包和肉，在墙上的彩绘七弦琴下宿营。那个薄纱小女孩把她的凉鞋迅速塞进提包里，穿上一双被踩过的鞋子，摇摇头，把头塞进破烂的帽子里，回答我是否喜欢跳舞的问题，回答说：“不和男孩跳舞， ’把它系在下巴上，然后轻蔑地回家了。

‘Old Mr. Turveydrop is so sorry,’ said Caddy, ‘that he has not finished dressing yet and cannot have the pleasure of seeing you before you go. You are such a favourite of his, Esther.’
“老特维德罗普先生非常抱歉，”凯迪说，“他还没有穿好衣服，不能在你走之前有幸见到你。”你是他最喜欢的人，埃丝特。

I expressed myself much obliged to him, but did not think it necessary to add that I readily dispensed with this attention.
我表示自己对他非常感激，但认为没有必要补充说我很乐意放弃这种关注。

‘It takes him a long time to dress,’ said Caddy, ‘because he is very much looked up to in such things, you know, and has a reputation to support. You can’t think how kind he is to Pa. He talks to Pa of an evening about the Prince Regent, and I never saw Pa so interested.’
“他要花很长时间来穿衣服，”凯迪说，“因为他在这些事情上非常受人尊敬，你知道，并且有良好的声誉。你无法想象他对爸爸有多友善。他和爸爸谈论了一个晚上的摄政王，我从来没有见过爸爸这么感兴趣。

There was something in the picture of Mr. Turveydrop bestowing his deportment on Mr. Jellyby that quite took my fancy. I asked Caddy if he brought her papa out much.
特维德罗普先生把他的举止赋予杰利比先生的照片中有些东西让我很着迷。我问凯迪是否经常带她爸爸出去。

‘No,’ said Caddy, ‘I don’t know that he does that, but he talks to Pa, and Pa greatly admires him, and listens, and likes it. Of course I am aware that Pa has hardly any claims to deportment, but they get on together delightfully. You can’t think what good companions they make. I never saw Pa take snuff before in my life, but he takes one pinch out of Mr. Turveydrop’s box regularly and keeps putting it to his nose and taking it away again all the evening.’
“不，”凯迪说，“我不知道他会那样做，但他和爸爸说话，爸爸非常钦佩他，听着，喜欢他。当然，我知道爸爸几乎没有什么举止，但他们相处得很愉快。你无法想象他们是多么好的伙伴。我以前从未见过爸爸吸鼻烟，但他经常从特维德罗普先生的盒子里取出一小撮鼻烟，整个晚上都把它放在鼻子上，然后又把它拿开。

That old Mr. Turveydrop should ever, in the chances and changes of life, have come to the rescue of Mr. Jellyby from Borrioboola-Gha appeared to me to be one of the pleasantest of oddities.
在我看来，老特维德罗普先生在生活的机遇和变化中拯救了来自博里奥布拉加哈的杰利比先生，这似乎是最令人愉快的怪事之一。

‘As to Peepy,’ said Caddy with a little hesitation, ‘whom I was most afraid of—next to having any family of my own, Esther—as an inconvenience to Mr. Turveydrop, the kindness of the old gentleman to that child is beyond everything. He asks to see him, my dear! He lets him take the newspaper up to him in bed; he gives him the crusts of his toast to eat; he sends him on little errands about the house; he tells him to come to me for sixpences. In short,’ said Caddy cheerily, ‘and not to prose, I am a very fortunate girl and ought to be very grateful. Where are we going, Esther?’
“至于皮比，”卡迪有点犹豫地说，“我最害怕的人，仅次于有自己的家庭的埃丝特，虽然给特维德罗普先生带来了不便，但老先生对那个孩子的善意却是最可怕的。”超越一切。他要求见他，亲爱的！他让他把报纸递到床上。他把面包皮给他吃；他派他去家里做一些小事。他告诉他只要六便士就可以来找我。简而言之，”凯迪高兴地说，“不说散文，我是一个非常幸运的女孩，应该非常感激。我们要去哪里，埃丝特？

‘To the Old Street Road,’ said I, ‘where I have a few words to say to the solicitor’s clerk who was sent to meet me at the coachoffice on the very day when I came to London and first saw you, my dear. Now I think of it, the gentleman who brought us to your house.’
“去老街，”我说，“在那里我有几句话要对律师的职员说，他是在我来到伦敦第一次见到你的那天被派到马车办公室来接我的，亲爱的。现在我想起来了，那位带我们到你家的绅士。”

‘Then, indeed, I seem to be naturally the person to go with you,’ returned Caddy.
“那么，确实，我似乎自然是和你一起去的人。”凯迪回答道。

To the Old Street Road we went and there inquired at Mrs. Guppy’s residence for Mrs. Guppy. Mrs. Guppy, occupying the parlours and having indeed been visibly in danger of cracking herself like a nut in the front-parlour door by peeping out before she was asked for, immediately presented herself and requested us to walk in. She was an old lady in a large cap, with rather a red nose and rather an unsteady eye, but smiling all over. Her close little sitting-room was prepared for a visit, and there was a portrait of her son in it which, I had almost written here, was more like than life: it insisted upon him with such obstinacy, and was so determined not to let him off.
我们去了老街，到孔雀夫人的住处打探孔雀夫人的情况。古比太太占据了客厅，在被邀请之前就向外张望，显然有可能把自己像坚果一样敲碎，她立即出现并要求我们走进去。她是一位老太太戴着一顶大帽子，鼻子有点红，眼睛有点不稳定，但脸上总是挂着微笑。她那间封闭的小客厅是为来访而准备的，里面有一幅她儿子的肖像，我几乎已经写到这里了，这幅肖像更像是生活：它如此固执地坚持要他，并且如此坚决不去让他下车。

Not only was the portrait there, but we found the original there too. He was dressed in a great many colours and was discovered at a table reading law-papers with his forefinger to his forehead.
那里不仅有肖像，而且我们还在那里找到了原作。他穿着多种颜色的衣服，被发现坐在一张桌子旁，用食指抵着额头阅读法律文件。

‘Miss Summerson,’ said Mr. Guppy, rising, ‘this is indeed an oasis. Mother, will you be so good as to put a chair for the other lady and get out of the gangway.’
“萨默森小姐，”古皮先生站起来说道，“这确实是一片绿洲。妈妈，请您给另一位女士放张椅子，然后离开舷梯好吗？”

Mrs. Guppy, whose incessant smiling gave her quite a waggish appearance, did as her son requested and then sat down in a corner, holding her pocket handkerchief to her chest, like a fomentation, with both hands.
顾比太太不断地微笑，显得很滑稽，她按照儿子的要求做了，然后坐在角落里，双手将口袋手帕放在胸前，就像热敷一样。

I presented Caddy, and Mr. Guppy said that any friend of mine was more than welcome. I then proceeded to the object of my visit.
我介绍了凯迪，古比先生说我非常欢迎我的任何朋友。然后我就开始了我访问的目的。

‘I took the liberty of sending you a note, sir,’ said I.
“我冒昧地给您寄了一张纸条，先生，”我说道。

Mr. Guppy acknowledged the receipt by taking it out of his breastpocket, putting it to his lips, and returning it to his pocket with a bow. Mr. Guppy’s mother was so diverted that she rolled her head as she smiled and made a silent appeal to Caddy with her elbow.
古比先生从胸前的口袋里拿出收据，放在唇边，然后鞠躬，将收据放回口袋，以此表示对收据的认可。孔比先生的妈妈实在是太高兴了，她微笑着转过头，用肘部无声地向凯迪发出恳求。

‘Could I speak to you alone for a moment?’ said I.
“我可以单独和你谈谈吗？”我说道。

Anything like the jocoseness of Mr. Guppy’s mother just now, I think I never saw. She made no sound of laughter, but she rolled her head, and shook it, and put her handkerchief to her mouth, and appealed to Caddy with her elbow, and her hand, and her shoulder, and was so unspeakably entertained altogether that it was with some difficulty she could marshal Caddy through the little folding-door into her bedroom adjoining.
我想我从来没有见过像孔雀先生母亲刚才那样的诙谐。她没有发出笑声，但她摇了摇头，用手帕捂住嘴，用肘部、手部和肩膀向凯迪求救，整个过程充满了难以言喻的乐趣。她费了点劲才把凯蒂从那扇小折叠门拖进了隔壁的卧室。

‘Miss Summerson,’ said Mr. Guppy, ‘you will excuse the waywardness of a parent ever mindful of a son’s appiness. My mother, though highly exasperating to the feelings, is actuated by maternal dictates.’
“萨默森小姐，”古比先生说，“你可以原谅那些只关心儿子是否愿意的父母的任性。”我的母亲虽然对这种感觉非常恼怒，但她是受母亲的指令驱使的。

I could hardly have believed that anybody could in a moment have turned so red or changed so much as Mr. Guppy did when I now put up my veil.
我几乎不敢相信，当我现在戴上面纱时，有人会像孔雀先生一样突然变得如此红或变化如此之大。

‘I asked the favour of seeing you for a few moments here,’ said I, ‘in preference to calling at Mr. Kenge’s because, remembering what you said on an occasion when you spoke to me in confidence, I feared I might otherwise cause you some embarrassment, Mr. Guppy.’
“我请求在这儿见你一会儿，”我说，“而不是去肯格先生那里，因为，记得你在一次私下里对我说话时所说的话，我担心我可能会引起麻烦。”你有点尴尬，古比先生。

I caused him embarrassment enough as it was, I am sure. I never saw such faltering, such confusion, such amazement and apprehension.
我确信我已经让他感到尴尬了。我从未见过如此的犹豫、如此的困惑、如此的惊讶和忧虑。

‘Miss Summerson,’ stammered Mr. Guppy, ‘I—I—beg your pardon, but in our profession—we—we—find it necessary to be explicit. You have referred to an occasion, miss, when I—when I did myself the honour of making a declaration which—‘
“萨默森小姐，”古比先生结结巴巴地说，“我——我——请原谅，但在我们的职业中——我们——我们——发现有必要说得清楚。你提到过一个场合，小姐，当时我——当我本人荣幸地发表了一项声明——”

Something seemed to rise in his throat that he could not possibly swallow. He put his hand there, coughed, made faces, tried again to swallow it, coughed again, made faces again, looked all round the room, and fluttered his papers.
喉咙里似乎有什么东西在上升，却无法咽下去。他把手放在那里，咳嗽，做了个鬼脸，又试着把它吞下去，又咳嗽，又做了个鬼脸，环视了房间，然后把文件扔了出去。

‘A kind of giddy sensation has come upon me, miss,’ he explained, ‘which rather knocks me over. I—er—a little subject to this sort of thing—er—by George!’
“我感到一种头晕目眩的感觉，小姐，”他解释道，“这简直让我晕倒了。”我——呃——有点受乔治这种事的影响！”

I gave him a little time to recover. He consumed it in putting his hand to his forehead and taking it away again, and in backing his chair into the corner behind him.
我给了他一点恢复的时间。他把手放在额头上又拿开，然后把椅子靠回身后的角落里，这一切都消耗了他的时间。

‘My intention was to remark, miss,’ said Mr. Guppy, ‘dear me— something bronchial, I think—hem!—to remark that you was so good on that occasion as to repel and repudiate that declaration. You— you wouldn’t perhaps object to admit that? Though no witnesses are present, it might be a satisfaction to—to your mind—if you was to put in that admission.’
“我的本意是说，小姐，”古比先生说，“亲爱的我——我想是支气管方面的东西——哼！——说你当时表现得很好，以至于拒绝并否认了这一声明。你——你也许不会反对承认这一点？虽然没有证人在场，但如果你承认这一点，对你来说可能会感到满意。

‘There can be no doubt,’ said I, ‘that I declined your proposal without any reservation or qualification whatever, Mr. Guppy.’
“毫无疑问，”我说，“我毫无保留地拒绝了你的提议，顾比先生。”

‘Thank you, miss,’ he returned, measuring the table with his troubled hands. ‘So far that’s satisfactory, and it does you credit. Er—this is certainly bronchial!—must be in the tubes— er—you wouldn’t perhaps be offended if I was to mention—not that it’s necessary, for your own good sense or any person’s sense must show ‘em that—if I was to mention that such declaration on my part was final, and there terminated?’
“谢谢你，小姐，”他回答道，用那双受伤的手测量着桌子。 “到目前为止，这还算令人满意，这值得你赞扬。呃——这肯定是支气管！——一定是在管子里——呃——如果我提到的话，你也许不会生气——并不是说这是必要的，因为你自己的良好判断力或任何人的判断力都必须向他们表明——如果我要提到的是，我的这种声明是最终的，并且终止了？

‘I quite understand that,’ said I.
“我很明白，”我说。

‘Perhaps—er—it may not be worth the form, but it might be a satisfaction to your mind—perhaps you wouldn’t object to admit that, miss?’ said Mr. Guppy.
“也许——呃——可能不值这个形式，但它可能会让你的心灵得到满足——也许你不会拒绝承认这一点，小姐？”古皮先生说。

‘I admit it most fully and freely,’ said I.
“我完全承认这一点，”我说。

‘Thank you,’ returned Mr. Guppy. ‘Very honourable, I am sure. I regret that my arrangements in life, combined with circumstances over which I have no control, will put it out of my power ever to fall back upon that offer or to renew it in any shape or form whatever, but it will ever be a retrospect entwined—er—with friendship’s bowers.’ Mr. Guppy’s bronchitis came to his relief and stopped his measurement of the table.
“谢谢你，”古比先生回答道。 “非常荣幸，我确信。我很遗憾，我生活中的安排，加上我无法控制的情况，将使我无法再依靠这个提议或以任何形式更新它，但这将永远是一个回顾古比先生的支气管炎缓解了，他不再测量桌子了。

‘I may now perhaps mention what I wished to say to you?’ I began.
“我现在可以提一下我想对你说的话吗？”我开始说道。

‘I shall be honoured, I am sure,’ said Mr. Guppy. ‘I am so persuaded that your own good sense and right feeling, miss, will— will keep you as square as possible—that I can have nothing but pleasure, I am sure, in hearing any observations you may wish to offer.’
“我相信，我会感到荣幸，”古皮先生说。 “我深信，你自己的良好判断力和正确感觉，小姐，将会——会让你尽可能保持正直——我确信，在听到你可能希望提供的任何意见时，我除了高兴之外什么也没有。”

‘You were so good as to imply, on that occasion—‘
“你太好了，当时就暗示——”

‘Excuse me, miss,’ said Mr. Guppy, ‘but we had better not travel out of the record into implication. I cannot admit that I implied anything.’
“对不起，小姐，”古比先生说，“但是我们最好不要脱离记录，走向暗示。”我不能承认我暗示了什么。

‘You said on that occasion,’ I recommenced, ‘that you might possibly have the means of advancing my interests and promoting my fortunes by making discoveries of which I should be the subject. I presume that you founded that belief upon your general knowledge of my being an orphan girl, indebted for everything to the benevolence of Mr. Jarndyce. Now, the beginning and the end of what I have come to beg of you is, Mr. Guppy, that you will have the kindness to relinquish all idea of so serving me. I have thought of this sometimes, and I have thought of it most lately—since I have been ill. At length I have decided, in case you should at any time recall that purpose and act upon it in any way, to come to you and assure you that you are altogether mistaken. You could make no discovery in reference to me that would do me the least service or give me the least pleasure. I am acquainted with my personal history, and I have it in my power to assure you that you never can advance my welfare by such means. You may, perhaps, have abandoned this project a long time. If so, excuse my giving you unnecessary trouble. If not, I entreat you, on the assurance I have given you, henceforth to lay it aside. I beg you to do this, for my peace.’
“你当时说，”我继续说道，“你可能有办法通过我应该成为主题的发现来促进我的利益和增加我的财富。”我想你的这种信念是建立在你对我是一个孤儿的普遍了解之上的，我的一切都归功于贾迪斯先生的仁慈。现在，我来请求你的目的就是，古比先生，请你放弃所有为我服务的想法。我有时会想到这一点，最近我也想到过这一点——自从我生病以来。最后我决定，如果你在任何时候想起这个目的并以任何方式采取行动，我会来找你并向你保证你完全错了。你不可能发现任何与我有关的发现对我来说是最少的服务或给我最少的快乐。我熟悉我的个人经历，并且我有能力向您保证，您永远无法通过这种方式增进我的福利。也许您已经放弃这个项目很长时间了。如果是这样，请原谅我给您带来不必要的麻烦。如果没有，我恳求你，根据我给你的保证，从今以后把它放在一边。为了我的平安，我请求你这样做。

‘I am bound to confess,’ said Mr. Guppy, ‘that you express yourself, miss, with that good sense and right feeling for which I gave you credit. Nothing can be more satisfactory than such right feeling, and if I mistook any intentions on your part just now, I am prepared to tender a full apology. I should wish to be understood, miss, as hereby offering that apology—limiting it, as your own good sense and right feeling will point out the necessity of, to the present proceedings.’
“我必须承认，”顾比先生说，“小姐，你表达自己的想法具有良好的判断力和正确的感觉，我对此表示赞赏。没有什么比这种正确的感觉更令人满意的了，如果我刚才误会了你的意图，我准备向你致以诚挚的歉意。小姐，我希望被理解为特此向目前的诉讼程序提出道歉——限制它，因为你自己的良好理智和正确的感觉会指出道歉的必要性。

I must say for Mr. Guppy that the snuffling manner he had had upon him improved very much. He seemed truly glad to be able to do something I asked, and he looked ashamed.
我必须对孔雀先生说，他以前那种抽鼻子的态度已经改善很多了。他似乎真的很高兴能够做我要求的事情，但他看起来很羞愧。

‘If you will allow me to finish what I have to say at once so that I may have no occasion to resume,’ I went on, seeing him about to speak, ‘you will do me a kindness, sir. I come to you as privately as possible because you announced this impression of yours to me in a confidence which I have really wished to respect—and which I always have respected, as you remember. I have mentioned my illness. There really is no reason why I should hesitate to say that I know very well that any little delicacy I might have had in making a request to you is quite removed. Therefore I make the entreaty I have now preferred, and I hope you will have sufficient consideration for me to accede to it.’
“如果您允许我立即说完我要说的话，这样我就没有机会继续说下去了，”我看到他要说话，继续说道，“您就帮了我大忙了，先生。”我尽可能私下来找你，因为你私下向我透露了你的这一印象，我真的希望尊重这一点——正如你所记得的，我一直尊重这一点。我已经提到了我的病。我真的没有理由犹豫地说，我很清楚，我向你提出请求时可能有的任何一点微妙都被完全消除了。因此，我提出我现在更喜欢的请求，希望你能充分考虑我的同意。

I must do Mr. Guppy the further justice of saying that he had looked more and more ashamed and that he looked most ashamed and very earnest when he now replied with a burning face, ‘Upon my word and honour, upon my life, upon my soul, Miss Summerson, as I am a living man, I’ll act according to your wish! I’ll never go another step in opposition to it. I’ll take my oath to it if it will be any satisfaction to you. In what I promise at this present time touching the matters now in question,’ continued Mr. Guppy rapidly, as if he were repeating a familiar form of words, ‘I speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so—‘
我必须进一步公正地说，古皮先生看起来越来越羞愧，当他现在满脸火辣辣地回答说：“以我的诺言和名誉担保，以我的生命担保，以我的生命担保时，他显得非常羞愧和非常认真”。灵魂，萨默森小姐，我是一个活生生的人，我会按照你的意愿行事！我永远不会再采取任何反对的措施。如果您满意的话，我会宣誓。我现在保证触及现在所讨论的问题，”顾比先生迅速继续说道，仿佛他在重复一种熟悉的话语形式，“我说的是实话，全部的真相，除了真相之外什么也没有，所以——”

‘I am quite satisfied,’ said I, rising at this point, ‘and I thank you very much. Caddy, my dear, I am ready!’
“我很满意，”我站起来说道，“我非常感谢你。”球童，亲爱的，我准备好了！

Mr. Guppy’s mother returned with Caddy (now making me the recipient of her silent laughter and her nudges), and we took our leave. Mr. Guppy saw us to the door with the air of one who was either imperfectly awake or walking in his sleep; and we left him there, staring.
孔雀先生的母亲带着凯迪回来了（现在我成了她无声的笑声和她的轻推的对象），然后我们就告辞了。古比先生送我们到门口，脸上的表情要么半醒，要么在睡梦中行走。我们把他留在那里，盯着看。

But in a minute he came after us down the street without any hat, and with his long hair all blown about, and stopped us, saying fervently, ‘Miss Summerson, upon my honour and soul, you may depend upon me!’
但不一会儿，他就沿着街道追上我们，没戴帽子，长发飘扬，他拦住了我们，热切地说：“萨默森小姐，以我的荣誉和灵魂起誓，你可以信赖我！”

‘I do,’ said I, ‘quite confidently.’
“我愿意，”我说道，“非常有信心。”

‘I beg your pardon, miss,’ said Mr. Guppy, going with one leg and staying with the other, ‘but this lady being present—your own witness—it might be a satisfaction to your mind (which I should wish to set at rest) if you was to repeat those admissions.’
“请您原谅，小姐，”孔雀先生说，一条腿走，另一条腿留着，“但是这位女士在场——您自己的见证人——这可能会让您感到满意（我希望将这一点设定为休息时）如果你要重复这些承认的话。

‘Well, Caddy,’ said I, turning to her, ‘perhaps you will not be surprised when I tell you, my dear, that there never has been any engagement—‘
“好吧，凯蒂，”我转向她说道，“亲爱的，当我告诉你，从来没有订婚时，也许你不会感到惊讶——”

‘No proposal or promise of marriage whatsoever,’ suggested Mr. Guppy.
“没有任何求婚或结婚承诺，”古皮先生建议道。

‘No proposal or promise of marriage whatsoever,’ said I, ‘between this gentleman—‘
“在这位先生之间，”我说，“没有任何求婚或承诺婚姻——”

‘William Guppy, of Penton Place, Pentonville, in the county of Middlesex,’ he murmured.
“威廉·古比，来自米德尔塞克斯郡本顿维尔的本顿广场，”他低声说道。

‘Between this gentleman, Mr. William Guppy, of Penton Place, Pentonville, in the county of Middlesex, and myself.’
“来自米德尔塞克斯郡彭顿维尔彭顿广场的威廉·古比先生和我本人。”

‘Thank you, miss,’ said Mr. Guppy. ‘Very full—er—excuse me— lady’s name, Christian and surname both?’
“谢谢你，小姐，”古比先生说。 “非常完整——呃——对不起——女士的名字、克里斯蒂安和姓氏？”

I gave them.
我给了他们。

‘Married woman, I believe?’ said Mr. Guppy. ‘Married woman. Thank you. Formerly Caroline Jellyby, spinster, then of Thavies Inn, within the city of London, but extra-parochial; now of Newman Street, Oxford Street. Much obliged.’
“我相信是已婚女人吧？”古比先生说。 '已婚女人。谢谢。卡罗琳·杰利比（Caroline Jellyby）原名卡罗琳·杰利比（Caroline Jellyby），是一位老处女，后来在伦敦市内的塔维斯旅馆（Thavies Inn）工作，但她的教区之外。现在的纽曼街、牛津街。多谢。'

He ran home and came running back again.
他跑回家，又跑回来。

‘Touching that matter, you know, I really and truly am very sorry that my arrangements in life, combined with circumstances over which I have no control, should prevent a renewal of what was wholly terminated some time back,’ said Mr. Guppy to me forlornly and despondently, ‘but it couldn’t be. Now COULD it, you know! I only put it to you.’
“说到这件事，你知道，我真的非常抱歉，我的生活安排，再加上我无法控制的情况，应该阻止一段时间之前完全终止的事情再次发生，”古皮先生对我说。我绝望而沮丧地说道：“但那不可能。”现在可以吗，你知道！我只把它交给你。

I replied it certainly could not. The subject did not admit of a doubt. He thanked me and ran to his mother’s again—and back again.
我回答说当然不能。对象没有承认任何疑问。他谢过我，然后又跑到他母亲那里——然后又跑了回来。

‘It’s very honourable of you, miss, I am sure,’ said Mr. Guppy. ‘If an altar could be erected in the bowers of friendship—but, upon my soul, you may rely upon me in every respect save and except the tender passion only!’
“我确信，小姐，您真是太荣幸了，”古比先生说。 “如果可以在友谊的凉亭里竖起一座祭坛——但是，以我的灵魂起誓，除了温柔的激情之外，你可以在一切方面依靠我！”

The struggle in Mr. Guppy’s breast and the numerous oscillations it occasioned him between his mother’s door and us were sufficiently conspicuous in the windy street (particularly as his hair wanted cutting) to make us hurry away. I did so with a lightened heart; but when we last looked back, Mr. Guppy was still oscillating in the same troubled state of mind.
孔雀先生胸中的挣扎，以及它在他母亲的门和我们之间引起的无数次震动，在刮风的街道上非常显眼（特别是当他的头发要剪的时候），让我们赶紧走开。我怀着轻松的心情这样做了；但当我们最后一次回首往事时，孔雀鱼先生的心情仍然在同样的困扰中摇摆不定。

CHAPTER XXXIX
第三十九章


Attorney and Client
律师与委托人

The name of Mr. Vholes, preceded by the legend Ground-Floor, is inscribed upon a door-post in Symond’s Inn, Chancery Lane—a little, pale, wall-eyed, woebegone inn like a large dust-binn of two compartments and a sifter. It looks as if Symond were a sparing man in his way and constructed his inn of old building materials which took kindly to the dry rot and to dirt and all things decaying and dismal, and perpetuated Symond’s memory with congenial shabbiness. Quartered in this dingy hatchment commemorative of Symond are the legal bearings of Mr. Vholes.
弗霍尔斯先生的名字，前面加上传说中的“底层”，刻在大法官巷西蒙旅馆的门柱上——这是一家苍白、双眼斜视、悲惨的小旅馆，就像一个有两个隔间的大垃圾箱，一个筛子。看起来西蒙德在他的方式上是一个节约的人，他用旧的建筑材料建造了他的旅馆，这些建筑材料对干腐烂和污垢以及所有腐烂和阴暗的东西很友好，并以令人愉快的破旧永存了西蒙德的记忆。在这个肮脏的西蒙纪念馆里，有弗霍尔斯先生的合法身份。

Mr. Vholes’s office, in disposition retiring and in situation retired, is squeezed up in a corner and blinks at a dead wall. Three feet of knotty-floored dark passage bring the client to Mr. Vholes’s jet-black door, in an angle profoundly dark on the brightest midsummer morning and encumbered by a black bulk-head of cellarage staircase against which belated civilians generally strike their brows. Mr. Vholes’s chambers are on so small a scale that one clerk can open the door without getting off his stool, while the other who elbows him at the same desk has equal facilities for poking the fire. A smell as of unwholesome sheep blending with the smell of must and dust is referable to the nightly (and often daily) consumption of mutton fat in candles and to the fretting of parchment forms and skins in greasy drawers. The atmosphere is otherwise stale and close. The place was last painted or whitewashed beyond the memory of man, and the two chimneys smoke, and there is a loose outer surface of soot evervwhere, and the dull cracked windows in their heavy frames have but one piece of character in them, which is a determination to be always dirty and always shut unless coerced. This accounts for the phenomenon of the weaker of the two usually having a bundle of firewood thrust between its jaws in hot weather.
沃尔斯先生的办公室，正处于退休状态，也处于退休状态，挤在一个角落里，对着一堵死墙眨眼。三英尺长、地板上布满疙瘩的黑暗通道将客户带到了沃尔斯先生漆黑的门前，在最明亮的仲夏早晨，门的角度非常黑暗，并被地下室楼梯的黑色舱壁阻碍，迟到的平民通常会在楼梯上皱起眉头。沃尔斯先生的房间规模很小，一名职员不用离开凳子就可以打开门，而另一位在同一张桌子上用肘部推着他的职员也有同样的设施来戳火。不健康的羊的气味与芥末和灰尘的气味混合在一起，指的是每晚（通常是每天）在蜡烛中消耗的羊脂，以及油腻的抽屉里羊皮纸和羊皮的磨损。否则气氛就陈旧而封闭。这个地方最后一次被油漆或粉刷过，已经超出了人们的记忆，两个烟囱冒着烟，到处都是松散的煤灰外表面，厚重的框架上暗淡、开裂的窗户只有一个特征，那就是除非被迫，否则决心永远肮脏，永远封闭。这就是为什么在炎热的天气里，两者中较弱的一方通常会用嘴夹一捆木柴的现象。

Mr. Vholes is a very respectable man. He has not a large business, but he is a very respectable man. He is allowed by the greater attorneys who have made good fortunes or are making them to be a most respectable man. He never misses a chance in his practice, which is a mark of respectability. He never takes any pleasure, which is another mark of respectability. He is reserved and serious, which is another mark of respectability. His digestion is impaired, which is highly respectable. And he is making hay of the grass which is flesh, for his three daughters. And his father is dependent on him in the Vale of Taunton.
Vholes 先生是一位非常值得尊敬的人。他没有很大的生意，但他是一个非常值得尊敬的人。他得到了那些发了大财或正在使他们成为最受尊敬的人的伟大律师的允许。他在练习中从不错过任何一个机会，这是受人尊敬的标志。他从不享受任何快乐，这是受人尊敬的另一个标志。他内向而严肃，这是受人尊敬的另一个标志。他的消化功能受损，这是非常值得尊敬的。他正在用有肉的草为他的三个女儿做干草。他的父亲在汤顿谷依赖他。

The one great principle of the English law is to make business for itself. There is no other principle distinctly, certainly, and consistently maintained through all its narrow turnings. Viewed by this light it becomes a coherent scheme and not the monstrous maze the laity are apt to think it. Let them but once clearly perceive that its grand principle is to make business for itself at their expense, and surely they will cease to grumble.
英国法律的一项重要原则是为自己做生意。没有任何其他原则能够在其所有的狭窄转折中得到明确、确定和始终如一的维护。从这个角度来看，它变成了一个连贯的计划，而不是外行人容易认为的巨大迷宫。只要让他们清楚地认识到它的伟大原则就是以牺牲自己为代价为自己谋取利益，他们就一定不会再抱怨了。

But not perceiving this quite plainly—only seeing it by halves in a confused way—the laity sometimes suffer in peace and pocket, with a bad grace, and DO grumble very much. Then this respectability of Mr. Vholes is brought into powerful play against them. ‘Repeal this statute, my good sir?’ says Mr. Kenge to a smarting client. ‘Repeal it, my dear sir? Never, with my consent. Alter this law, sir, and what will be the effect of your rash proceeding on a class of practitioners very worthily represented, allow me to say to you, by the opposite attorney in the case, Mr. Vholes? Sir, that class of practitioners would be swept from the face of the earth. Now you cannot afford—I will say, the social system cannot afford—to lose an order of men like Mr. Vholes. Diligent, persevering, steady, acute in business. My dear sir, I understand your present feelings against the existing state of things, which I grant to be a little hard in your case; but I can never raise my voice for the demolition of a class of men like Mr. Vholes.’ The respectability of Mr. Vholes has even been cited with crushing effect before Parliamentary committees, as in the following blue minutes of a distinguished attorney’s evidence. ‘Question (number five hundred and seventeen thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine): If I understand you, these forms of practice indisputably occasion delay? Answer: Yes, some delay. Question: And great expense? Answer: Most assuredly they cannot be gone through for nothing. Question: And unspeakable vexation? Answer: I am not prepared to say that. They have never given ME any vexation; quite the contrary. Question: But you think that their abolition would damage a class of practitioners? Answer: I have no doubt of it. Question: Can you instance any type of that class? Answer: Yes. I would unhesitatingly mention Mr. Vholes. He would be ruined. Question: Mr. Vholes is considered, in the profession, a respectable man? Answer: ‘—which proved fatal to the inquiry for ten years—‘Mr. Vholes is considered, in the profession, a MOST respectable man.’
但他们并没有很清楚地认识到这一点——只是以一种混乱的方式半途而废地看待这一点——平信徒有时会在平静和口袋里受苦，带着一种不好的风度，而且确实会发牢骚。然后，沃尔斯先生的这种受人尊敬的态度在对抗他们时发挥了强大的作用。 “废除这条法规吧，我的好先生？”肯吉先生对一位聪明的客户说道。 ‘亲爱的先生，废除它吗？经我同意，绝对不会。先生，改变这条法律，你的鲁莽行动会对一类非常值得代表的从业者产生什么影响，请允许我对你说，由本案的另一位律师，弗霍尔斯先生？先生，这一班修行者将会从地球表面被扫除。现在你不能——我想说，社会制度不能——失去像沃尔斯先生这样的人。勤奋、坚忍、稳健、敏锐。亲爱的先生，我理解您目前对现状的感受，我承认这对您来说有点困难；沃尔斯先生的受人尊敬甚至在议会委员会中得到了压倒性的效果，正如一位杰出律师在接下来的蓝色会议记录中所提供的证据一样。 ‘问（第五十一万七千八百六十九）：如果我理解你的话，这些修行方式无疑会造成延误？答：是的，有一些延迟。问：费用大吗？回答：当然，这些事情不可能白费。问：还有说不出的烦恼？答：我不准备这么说。他们从来没有给我带来任何烦恼；恰恰相反。弟子：但是您认为废除会损害一个修炼者阶层吗？答：我对此毫不怀疑。问题：你能实例化该类的任何类型吗？ 答：是的。我会毫不犹豫地提到 Vholes 先生。他会被毁掉的。问：Vholes 先生在业内被认为是一位受人尊敬的人吗？回答：“——这对十年的调查来说是致命的——”先生。在这个行业中，Vholes 被认为是最受尊敬的人。’

So in familiar conversation, private authorities no less disinterested will remark that they don’t know what this age is coming to, that we are plunging down precipices, that now here is something else gone, that these changes are death to people like Vholes—a man of undoubted respectability, with a father in the Vale of Taunton, and three daughters at home. Take a few steps more in this direction, say they, and what is to become of Vholes’s father? Is he to perish? And of Vholes’s daughters? Are they to be shirt-makers, or governesses? As though, Mr. Vholes and his relations being minor cannibal chiefs and it being proposed to abolish cannibalism, indignant champions were to put the case thus: Make man-eating unlawful, and you starve the Vholeses!
因此，在熟悉的谈话中，同样公正的私人当局会说，他们不知道这个时代即将走向何方，我们正在跌入悬崖，现在这里已经有其他东西消失了，这些变化对像沃勒斯这样的人来说是死亡——毫无疑问，他是一位受人尊敬的人，父亲住在汤顿谷，家里有三个女儿。他们说，朝这个方向再迈出几步，沃尔斯的父亲会变成什么样子呢？他要灭亡吗？沃勒斯的女儿们呢？她们是衬衫制造商，还是家庭教师？就好像沃勒斯先生和他的亲戚是食人族的小酋长，而提议废除食人行为一样，愤怒的拥护者们会这样说：把吃人定为非法，你就会让沃勒斯人挨饿！

In a word, Mr. Vholes, with his three daughters and his father in the Vale of Taunton, is continually doing duty, like a piece of timber, to shore up some decayed foundation that has become a pitfall and a nuisance. And with a great many people in a great many instances, the question is never one of a change from wrong to right (which is quite an extraneous consideration), but is always one of injury or advantage to that eminently respectable legion, Vholes.
总之，沃尔斯先生带着他的三个女儿和他的父亲住在汤顿谷，他像一块木头一样，不断地履行职责，以加固一些已经成为陷阱和麻烦的腐烂的基础。对于很多人来说，在很多情况下，问题从来不是从错误到正确的转变（这是一个相当无关的考虑），而始终是对Vholes这一令人尊敬的军团的伤害或好处。

The Chancellor is, within these ten minutes, ‘up’ for the long vacation. Mr. Vholes, and his young client, and several blue bags hastily stuffed out of all regularity of form, as the larger sort of serpents are in their first gorged state, have returned to the official den. Mr. Vholes, quiet and unmoved, as a man of so much respectability ought to be, takes off his close black gloves as if he were skinning his hands, lifts off his tight hat as if he were scalping himself, and sits down at his desk. The client throws his hat and gloves upon the ground—tosses them anywhere, without looking after them or caring where they go; flings himself into a chair, half sighing and half groaning; rests his aching head upon his hand and looks the portrait of young despair.
在这十分钟内，财政大臣就准备开始放长假了。沃尔斯先生和他年轻的客户，以及几个被匆忙塞进的蓝色袋子，因为较大的蛇正处于第一次狼吞虎咽的状态，他们已经回到了官方巢穴。沃尔斯先生安静而无动于衷，就像一个受人尊敬的人应该有的那样，他脱下贴身的黑色手套，就像在剥手上的皮一样，摘下紧闭的帽子，就像在给自己剥头皮一样，然后在他的座位上坐下。桌子。客户把他的帽子和手套扔到地上——把它们扔到任何地方，不看管它们，也不关心它们去了哪里；他一屁股坐在椅子上，一半叹息一半呻吟。他用手托着疼痛的头，看上去就像年轻人绝望的写照。

‘Again nothing done!’ says Richard. ‘Nothing, nothing done!’
“又什么也没做！”理查德说。 “没什么，什么都没做！”

‘Don’t say nothing done, sir,’ returns the placid Vholes. ‘That is scarcely fair, sir, scarcely fair!’
“别说什么都没做，先生。”平静的沃尔斯回答道。 “这太不公平了，先生，太不公平了！”

‘Why, what IS done?’ says Richard, turning gloomily upon him.
“哎呀，到底发生了什么？”理查德阴郁地转向他说道。

‘That may not be the whole question,’ returns Vholes, ‘The question may branch off into what is doing, what is doing?’
“这可能不是问题的全部，”沃尔斯回答道，“问题可能会延伸到正在做什么，正在做什么？”

‘And what is doing?’ asks the moody client.
“那我们在做什么？”这位喜怒无常的客户问道。

Vholes, sitting with his arms on the desk, quietly bringing the tips of his five right fingers to meet the tips of his five left fingers, and quietly separating them again, and fixedly and slowly looking at his client, replies, ‘A good deal is doing, sir. We have put our shoulders to the wheel, Mr. Carstone, and the wheel is going round.’
沃尔斯坐在桌子上，双臂放在桌子上，静静地将右手五根手指的指尖与左手五根手指的指尖相碰，然后又静静地分开，固定地、缓慢地看着他的客户，回答道：“很划算。”正在做，先生。卡斯通先生，我们已经把我们的肩膀放在了方向盘上，方向盘正在转动。

‘Yes, with Ixion on it. How am I to get through the next four or five accursed months?’ exclaims the young man, rising from his chair and walking about the room.
“是的，上面有伊克西翁。我该如何度过接下来的四五个月呢？”年轻人惊呼道，从椅子上站起来，在房间里走来走去。

‘Mr. C.,’ returns Vholes, following him close with his eyes wherever he goes, ‘your spirits are hasty, and I am sorry for it on your account. Excuse me if I recommend you not to chafe so much, not to be so impetuous, not to wear yourself out so. You should have more patience. You should sustain yourself better.’
'先生。 “C.，”沃尔斯回答道，无论他走到哪里，他的眼睛都紧紧地跟着他，“你的情绪很急躁，我为你感到抱歉。对不起，我建议你不要那么生气，不要那么浮躁，不要那么疲惫。你应该有更多的耐心。你应该更好地维持自己。

‘I ought to imitate you, in fact, Mr. Vholes?’ says Richard, sitting down again with an impatient laugh and beating the devil’s tattoo with his boot on the patternless carpet.
“事实上，我应该效仿你，沃尔斯先生？”理查德说道，一边不耐烦地笑着重新坐下，用靴子在无图案的地毯上敲打着魔鬼的纹身。

‘Sir,’ returns Vholes, always looking at the client as if he were making a lingering meal of him with his eyes as well as with his professional appetite. ‘Sir,’ returns Vholes with his inward manner of speech and his bloodless quietude, ‘I should not have had the presumption to propose myself as a model for your imitation or any man’s. Let me but leave the good name to my three daughters, and that is enough for me; I am not a self-seeker. But since you mention me so pointedly, I will acknowledge that I should like to impart to you a little of my—come, sir, you are disposed to call it insensibility, and I am sure I have no objection—say insensibility—a little of my insensibility.’
“先生，”沃尔斯回答道，他总是看着客户，仿佛他正在用自己的眼睛和专业的胃口为他做一顿令人流连忘返的大餐。 “先生，”沃尔斯用他内心的说话方式和冷酷的平静回答说，“我不应该冒昧地把自己当作你或任何人模仿的榜样。让我把好名字留给我的三个女儿吧，这对我来说就足够了。我不是一个自私自利的人。但既然你如此尖锐地提到我，我承认我想向你透露一点我的——来吧，先生，你倾向于称其为麻木不仁，我确信我不反对——说麻木不仁——一点我的麻木不仁。

‘Mr. Vholes,’ explains the client, somewhat abashed, ‘I had no intention to accuse you of insensibility.’
'先生。 “Vholes，”这位客户有点尴尬地解释道，“我无意指责你麻木不仁。”

‘I think you had, sir, without knowing it,’ returns the equable Vholes. ‘Very naturally. It is my duty to attend to your interests with a cool head, and I can quite understand that to your excited feelings I may appear, at such times as the present, insensible. My daughters may know me better; my aged father may know me better. But they have known me much longer than you have, and the confiding eye of affection is not the distrustful eye of business. Not that I complain, sir, of the eye of business being distrustful; quite the contrary. In attending to your interests, I wish to have all possible checks upon me; it is right that I should have them; I court inquiry. But your interests demand that I should be cool and methodical, Mr. Carstone; and I cannot be otherwise—no, sir, not even to please you.’
“我想你已经这么做了，先生，但你自己并不知道。”平静的沃尔斯回答道。 ‘非常自然。我有责任冷静地关注您的利益，而且我完全可以理解，对于您激动的感情，在目前这样的时刻，我可能显得麻木不仁。我的女儿们可能更了解我；我年迈的父亲可能更了解我。但他们认识我的时间比你长得多，充满感情的信任之眼并不是商业上的怀疑之眼。先生，我并不是抱怨商业界的目光不信任；我只是抱怨。恰恰相反。为了照顾您的利益，我希望对我进行一切可能的检查；我应该拥有它们，这是正确的；我法庭调查。但你的利益要求我必须冷静、有条理，卡斯通先生；我不能这样做——不，先生，甚至不是为了取悦您。”

Mr. Vholes, after glancing at the official cat who is patiently watching a mouse’s hole, fixes his charmed gaze again on his young client and proceeds in his buttoned-up, half-audible voice as if there were an unclean spirit in him that will neither come out nor speak out, ‘What are you to do, sir, you inquire, during the vacation. I should hope you gentlemen of the army may find many means of amusing yourselves if you give your minds to it. If you had asked me what I was to do during the vacation, I could have answered you more readily. I am to attend to your interests. I am to be found here, day by day, attending to your interests. That is my duty, Mr. C., and term-time or vacation makes no difference to me. If you wish to consult me as to your interests, you will find me here at all times alike. Other professional men go out of town. I don’t. Not that I blame them for going; I merely say I don’t go. This desk is your rock, sir!’
沃尔斯先生看了一眼正在耐心观察老鼠洞的官方猫后，再次用他迷人的目光注视着他的年轻客户，并用他压抑的、几乎听不见的声音继续说道，仿佛他体内有一个不洁的灵魂，既不出来也不说话：‘先生，您问，假期期间您要做什么？我希望军中的先生们只要用心，就能找到许多娱乐的方式。如果你问我假期要做什么，我可以更轻松地回答你。我要照顾你的兴趣。我会在这里发现，日复一日，关注你的兴趣。这是我的职责，C. 先生，学期或假期对我来说没有区别。如果您想就您的兴趣向我咨询，您随时都会在这里找到我。其他职业人士则出城。我不。并不是我责怪他们去；而是我责备他们。我只是说我不去。这张桌子是你的基石，先生！”

Mr. Vholes gives it a rap, and it sounds as hollow as a coffin. Not to Richard, though. There is encouragement in the sound to him. Perhaps Mr. Vholes knows there is.
沃尔斯先生敲了敲，听起来就像棺材一样空洞。不过，对理查德来说不是。声音里带着对他的鼓励。也许沃尔斯先生知道有这样的事情。

‘I am perfectly aware, Mr. Vholes,’ says Richard, more familiarly and good-humouredly, ‘that you are the most reliable fellow in the world and that to have to do with you is to have to do with a man of business who is not to be hoodwinked. But put yourself in my case, dragging on this dislocated life, sinking deeper and deeper into difficulty every day, continually hoping and continually disappointed, conscious of change upon change for the worse in myself, and of no change for the better in anything else, and you will find it a dark-looking case sometimes, as I do.’
“我完全清楚，沃尔斯先生，”理查德语气更加亲切、幽默地说，“您是世界上最可靠的人，与您打交道就像与商人打交道谁不被蒙蔽。但把你自己放在我的情况下，拖着这种混乱的生活，每天在困难中越陷越深，不断地希望和不断地失望，意识到自己的变化越来越糟，而其他任何事情都没有变好，有时你会发现它看起来很黑，就像我一样。

‘You know,’ says Mr. Vholes, ‘that I never give hopes, sir. I told you from the first, Mr. C., that I never give hopes. Particularly in a case like this, where the greater part of the costs comes out of the estate, I should not be considerate of my good name if I gave hopes. It might seem as if costs were my object. Still, when you say there is no change for the better, I must, as a bare matter of fact, deny that.’
“你知道，”沃尔斯先生说，“我从不抱有希望，先生。 C.先生，我从一开始就告诉过你，我从不抱有希望。尤其是在这种情况下，大部分费用都来自遗产，如果我寄予希望，我就不应该考虑到我的名誉。看起来成本似乎是我的目标。不过，当你说没有任何改善时，我必须，事实上，我必须否认这一点。

‘Aye?’ returns Richard, brightening. ‘But how do you make it out?’
“嗯？”理查德回答道，脸上的表情焕然一新。 “但是你怎么知道呢？”

‘Mr. Carstone, you are represented by—‘
'先生。卡斯顿，你的代表是——‘

‘You said just now—a rock.’
“你刚才说——一块石头。”

‘Yes, sir,’ says Mr. Vholes, gently shaking his head and rapping the hollow desk, with a sound as if ashes were falling on ashes, and dust on dust, ‘a rock. That’s something. You are separately represented, and no longer hidden and lost in the interests of others. THAT’S something. The suit does not sleep; we wake it up, we air it, we walk it about. THAT’S something. It’s not all Jarndyce, in fact as well as in name. THAT’S something. Nobody has it all his own way now, sir. And THAT’S something, surely.’
“是的，先生，”沃尔斯先生轻轻摇着头，敲打着空荡荡的桌子，发出的声音就好像灰烬落在灰烬上，灰尘落在灰尘上，“一块石头。”就是这样。你们有独立的代表，不再隐藏和迷失于他人的利益中。就是这样。套装不睡觉；我们叫醒它，播出它，散步它。就是这样。事实上，从名字上看，这并不全是贾迪斯。就是这样。现在没有人可以完全按照自己的方式行事，先生。当然，这就是事情。

Richard, his face flushing suddenly, strikes the desk with his clenched hand.
理查德的脸突然涨得通红，握紧的手敲打着桌子。

‘Mr. Vholes! If any man had told me when I first went to John Jarndyce’s house that he was anything but the disinterested friend he seemed—that he was what he has gradually turned out to be—I could have found no words strong enough to repel the slander; I could not have defended him too ardently. So little did I know of the world! Whereas now I do declare to you that he becomes to me the embodiment of the suit; that in place of its being an abstraction, it is John Jarndyce; that the more I suffer, the more indignant I am with him; that every new delay and every new disappointment is only a new injury from John Jarndyce’s hand.’
'先生。沃勒斯！当我第一次去约翰·贾迪斯家时，如果有人告诉我，他根本不是一个表面上看起来无私的朋友——他就是他逐渐变成的样子——我找不到任何有力的言语来驳斥这种诽谤；我不能太热情地为他辩护。我对这个世界知之甚少！然而现在我确实向你们宣布，他对我来说就是这套衣服的化身；它不是一个抽象概念，而是约翰·贾迪斯（John Jardyce）；我越受苦，我就越对他感到愤怒；每一次新的延误和每一次新的失望都只是约翰·贾迪斯手上的新伤。

‘No, no,’ says vholes. ‘Don’t say so. We ought to have patience, all of us. Besides, I never disparage, sir. I never disparage.’
“不，不，”沃尔斯说。 ‘别这么说。我们所有人都应该有耐心。此外，我从不贬低，先生。我从不贬低。

‘Mr. Vholes,’ returns the angry client. ‘You know as well as I that he would have strangled the suit if he could.’
'先生。 Vholes，”愤怒的客户回答道。 “你和我一样清楚，如果可以的话，他会掐死这套衣服的。”

‘He was not active in it,’ Mr. Vholes admits with an appearance of reluctance. ‘He certainly was not active in it. But however, but however, he might have had amiable intentions. Who can read the heart, Mr. C.!’
“他在这件事上并不积极，”沃尔斯先生承认道，他的表情显得不情愿。 “他当然不积极参与其中。但是，但是，但是，他也许是有好意的。谁能读懂人心，C先生！”

‘You can,’ returns Richard.
“你可以，”理查德回答道。

‘I, Mr. C.?’
“我，C先生？”

‘Well enough to know what his intentions were. Are or are not our interests conflicting? Tell—me—that!’ says Richard, accompanying his last three words with three raps on his rock of trust.
‘足以知道他的意图是什么。我们的利益是否冲突？告诉我那个！”理查德说道，在他的最后三个字的同时，还敲击了他信任的磐石三声。

‘Mr. C.,’ returns Vholes, immovable in attitude and never winking his hungry eyes, ‘I should be wanting in my duty as your professional adviser, I should be departing from my fidelity to your interests, if I represented those interests as identical with the interests of Mr. Jarndyce. They are no such thing, sir. I never impute motives; I both have and am a father, and I never impute motives. But I must not shrink from a professional duty, even if it sows dissensions in families. I understand you to be now consulting me professionally as to your interests? You are so? I reply, then, they are not identical with those of Mr. Jarndyce.’
'先生。 C.，”弗霍尔斯回答道，态度坚定，从不眨动他那双饥渴的眼睛，“如果我将这些利益与你的利益等同起来，我就没有履行作为你的专业顾问的职责，我就应该背离对你的利益的忠诚。”贾迪斯先生的兴趣。他们不是这样的人，先生。我从不归咎于动机；我既是父亲，也是父亲，我从不归咎于动机。但我绝不能回避职业职责，即使这会在家庭中造成不和。据我所知，您现在正在就您的兴趣向我进行专业咨询？你太？那么我的回答是，它们与贾迪斯先生的并不相同。

‘Of course they are not!’ cries Richard. ‘You found that out long ago.’
“当然不是！”理查德喊道。 “你很久以前就发现了。”

‘Mr. C.,’ returns Vholes, ‘I wish to say no more of any third party than is necessary. I wish to leave my good name unsullied, together with any little property of which I may become possessed through industry and perseverance, to my daughters Emma, Jane, and Caroline. I also desire to live in amity with my professional brethren. When Mr. Skimpole did me the honour, sir—I will not say the very high honour, for I never stoop to flattery—of bringing us together in this room, I mentioned to you that I could offer no opinion or advice as to your interests while those interests were entrusted to another member of the profession. And I spoke in such terms as I was bound to speak of Kenge and Carboy’s office, which stands high. You, sir, thought fit to withdraw your interests from that keeping nevertheless and to offer them to me. You brought them with clean hands, sir, and I accepted them with clean hands. Those interests are now paramount in this office. My digestive functions, as you may have heard me mention, are not in a good state, and rest might improve them; but I shall not rest, sir, while I am your representative. Whenever you want me, you will find me here. Summon me anywhere, and I will come. During the long vacation, sir, I shall devote my leisure to studying your interests more and more closely and to making arrangements for moving heaven and earth (including, of course, the Chancellor) after Michaelmas term; and when I ultimately congratulate you, sir,’ says Mr. Vholes with the severity of a determined man, ‘when I ultimately congratulate you, sir, with all my heart, on your accession to fortune—which, but that I never give hopes, I might say something further about—you will owe me nothing beyond whatever little balance may be then outstanding of the costs as between solicitor and client not included in the taxed costs allowed out of the estate. I pretend to no claim upon you, Mr. C., but for the zealous and active discharge—not the languid and routine discharge, sir: that much credit I stipulate for—of my professional duty. My duty prosperously ended, all between us is ended.’
'先生。 C.，”Vholes 回答道，“我不想对任何第三方说任何不必要的话。我希望将我的好名声和我通过勤奋和毅力可能拥有的任何一点财产都完好无损地留给我的女儿艾玛、简和卡罗琳。我也希望与我的专业弟兄和睦相处。当斯金波尔先生让我荣幸地把我们聚集在这个房间里时，先生——我不会说非常高的荣誉，因为我从不屈尊奉承——我向你提到过，我无法就你的问题提供任何意见或建议。利益，而这些利益被委托给该专业的另一名成员。我所说的措辞就像我必然要谈到肯格和卡博伊的办公室一样，它很高。先生，您认为还是应该撤回您的利益并将其提供给我。先生，您干净地带来了它们，我也干净地接受了它们。这些利益现在在这个办公室中至关重要。我的消化功能，你可能听我说过，状态不太好，休息可能会改善；但先生，当我担任您的代表时，我不会休息。无论什么时候你需要我，你都会在这里找到我。到任何地方召唤我，我都会来。先生，在这个漫长的假期里，我将把我的闲暇时间用于更加仔细地研究您的兴趣，并为米迦勒节结束后的搬迁事宜（当然包括大法官）做出安排；当我最终祝贺你时，先生，”先生说。 沃尔斯以坚定的人的严厉态度说道：“先生，当我最终全心全意地祝贺您获得财富时——但我从不抱有希望，我可以进一步说——您将不欠我任何东西”除了律师和委托人之间的费用中可能存在的任何一点余额之外，不包括在允许从遗产中扣除的纳税费用中。 C. 先生，我假装对您没有什么要求，只是因为您热心而积极地履行了我的职业职责，而不是慵懒而例行公事的履行，先生：我规定了这一点。我的职责圆满结束，我们之间的一切都结束了。’

Vholes finally adds, by way of rider to this declaration of his principles, that as Mr. Carstone is about to rejoin his regiment, perhaps Mr. C. will favour him with an order on his agent for twenty pounds on account.
沃尔斯最后补充道，作为他的原则宣言的附加内容，当卡斯通先生即将重新加入他的团时，也许C.先生会向他的经纪人下达二十英镑的预付款命令。

‘For there have been many little consultations and attendances of late, sir,’ observes Vholes, turning over the leaves of his diary, ‘and these things mount up, and I don’t profess to be a man of capital. When we first entered on our present relations I stated to you openly—it is a principle of mine that there never can be too much openness between solicitor and client—that I was not a man of capital and that if capital was your object you had better leave your papers in Kenge’s office. No, Mr. C., you will find none of the advantages or disadvantages of capital here, sir. This,’ Vholes gives the desk one hollow blow again, ‘is your rock; it pretends to be nothing more.’
“因为最近有很多小咨询和出席，先生，”沃尔斯翻着日记本说道，“这些事情越来越多，我并不自称是一个有资本的人。当我们第一次建立目前的关系时，我公开地向你声明——律师和委托人之间永远不能有太多的开放性，这是我的原则——我不是一个资本家，如果资本是你的目标，你就拥有了资本。最好把你的文件留在肯格的办公室。不，C.先生，您在这里找不到资本的优点或缺点，先生。 “这个，”沃尔斯再次空洞地敲了一下桌子，“是你的石头；”它假装什么都没有。

The client, with his dejection insensibly relieved and his vague hopes rekindled, takes pen and ink and writes the draft, not without perplexed consideration and calculation of the date it may bear, implying scant effects in the agent’s hands. All the while, Vholes, buttoned up in body and mind, looks at him attentively. All the while, Vholes’s official cat watches the mouse’s hole.
委托人的沮丧不知不觉地缓解了，模糊的希望重新燃起，拿起笔和墨水写下了草稿，不无困惑地考虑和计算了它可能发生的日期，这意味着在代理人手中收效甚微。一直以来，沃尔斯都保持着身心的平静，聚精会神地看着他。沃勒斯的官方猫一直注视着老鼠的洞。

Lastly, the client, shaking hands, beseeches Mr. Vholes, for heaven’s sake and earth’s sake, to do his utmost to ‘pull him through’ the Court of Chancery. Mr. Vholes, who never gives hopes, lays his palm upon the client’s shoulder and answers with a smile, ‘Always here, sir. Personally, or by letter, you will always find me here, sir, with my shoulder to the wheel.’ Thus they part, and Vholes, left alone, employs himself in carrying sundry little matters out of his diary into his draft bill book for the ultimate behoof of his three daughters. So might an industrious fox or bear make up his account of chickens or stray travellers with an eye to his cubs, not to disparage by that word the three raw-visaged, lank, and buttoned-up maidens who dwell with the parent Vholes in an earthy cottage situated in a damp garden at Kennington.
最后，委托人握手，恳求沃尔斯先生，看在老天爷的份上，尽最大努力“拉他通过”大法官法庭。沃尔斯先生从不抱有希望，他将手掌放在客户的肩膀上，微笑着回答：“永远在这里，先生。”亲自或通过信件，您总是会在这里找到我，先生，我的肩膀靠在方向盘上。”就这样他们分开了，沃尔斯独自一人，忙着从日记中把各种各样的小事记入他的草案帐单簿中。他的三个女儿的最终利益。因此，一只勤劳的狐狸或熊可能会编造鸡或流浪旅行者的故事，以关注他的幼崽，而不是用这个词来贬低与父母Vholes住在一个房子里的三个面容粗糙、瘦长、扣着纽扣的少女。朴实的小屋坐落在肯宁顿潮湿的花园里。

Richard, emerging from the heavy shade of Symond’s Inn into the sunshine of Chancery Lane—for there happens to be sunshine there to-day—walks thoughtfully on, and turns into Lincoln’s Inn, and passes under the shadow of the Lincoln’s Inn trees. On many such loungers have the speckled shadows of those trees often fallen; on the like bent head, the bitten nail, the lowering eye, the lingering step, the purposeless and dreamy air, the good consuming and consumed, the life turned sour. This lounger is not shabby yet, but that may come. Chancery, which knows no wisdom but in precedent, is very rich in such precedents; and why should one be different from ten thousand?
理查德从西蒙律师学院的浓荫下走出来，来到大法官巷的阳光下——因为今天那里正好有阳光——若有所思地继续前行，拐进林肯律师学院，穿过林肯律师学院的树荫。许多这样的躺椅上都有那些树木经常落下的斑点阴影；低下的头，被咬过的指甲，低垂的目光，徘徊的脚步，漫无目的的梦幻空气，美好的消耗和消耗，生活变质了。这个躺椅还不算破旧，但那可能会到来。最高法院除了先例之外一无所知，这样的先例非常丰富。为什么一与万不同呢？

Yet the time is so short since his depreciation began that as he saunters away, reluctant to leave the spot for some long months together, though he hates it, Richard himself may feel his own case as if it were a startling one. While his heart is heavy with corroding care, suspense, distrust, and doubt, it may have room for some sorrowful wonder when he recalls how different his first visit there, how different he, how different all the colours of his mind. But injustice breeds injustice; the fighting with shadows and being defeated by them necessitates the setting up of substances to combat; from the impalpable suit which no man alive can understand, the time for that being long gone by, it has become a gloomy relief to turn to the palpable figure of the friend who would have saved him from this ruin and make HIM his enemy. Richard has told Vholes the truth. Is he in a hardened or a softened mood, he still lays his injuries equally at that door; he was thwarted, in that quarter, of a set purpose, and that purpose could only originate in the one subject that is resolving his existence into itself; besides, it is a justification to him in his own eyes to have an embodied antagonist and oppressor.
然而，自从他开始贬值以来，时间是如此之短，以至于当他漫步离开时，不愿意离开这个地方一起度过漫长的几个月，尽管他讨厌这样，理查德本人可能会觉得自己的情况似乎是一个令人震惊的情况。虽然他的内心充满了腐蚀的忧虑、悬念、不信任和怀疑，但当他回想起第一次访问那里时，他是多么不同，他的思想是多么不同，他可能有一些悲伤的奇迹的空间。但不公正会滋生不公正；与影子战斗，被影子打败，必须设置实体来战斗；从没有一个活着的人能够理解的难以捉摸的诉讼中，那已经过去了很久，转向朋友的明显身影已经成为一种令人沮丧的解脱，他本可以将他从废墟中拯救出来，并使他成为他的敌人。理查德告诉了沃尔斯真相。无论他的情绪是强硬还是软化，他仍然将自己的伤害都平等地归咎于那扇门；在那个方面，他受到了既定目标的阻碍，而这个目标只能源于将他的存在解决为自身的一个主体；此外，在他自己看来，拥有一个具体的对手和压迫者是合理的。

Is Richard a monster in all this, or would Chancery be found rich in such precedents too if they could be got for citation from the Recording Angel?
理查德在这一切中是否是一个怪物，或者如果可以从记录天使那里引用这些先例，大法官法庭是否也会发现丰富的此类先例？

Two pairs of eyes not unused to such people look after him, as, biting his nails and brooding, he crosses the square and is swallowed up by the shadow of the southern gateway. Mr. Guppy and Mr. Weevle are the possessors of those eyes, and they have been leaning in conversation against the low stone parapet under the trees. He passes close by them, seeing nothing but the ground.
两双不习惯这种人的眼睛注视着他，他咬着指甲，沉思着，穿过广场，被南门的影子吞没了。古皮先生和韦弗勒先生就是这双眼睛的拥有者，他们一直靠在树下低矮的石栏杆上交谈。他从他们身边走过，除了地面什么也看不见。

‘William,’ says Mr. Weevle, adjusting his whiskers, ‘there’s combustion going on there! It’s not a case of spontaneous, but it’s smouldering combustion it is.’
“威廉，”威弗勒先生一边说，一边整理着胡须，“那里正在燃烧！”这不是自燃，而是阴燃燃烧。”

‘Ah!’ says Mr. Guppy. ‘He wouldn’t keep out of Jarndyce, and I suppose he’s over head and ears in debt. I never knew much of him. He was as high as the monument when he was on trial at our place. A good riddance to me, whether as clerk or client! Well, Tony, that as I was mentioning is what they’re up to.’
“啊！”孔雀先生说。 “他不会避开贾迪斯，我想他已经负债累累了​​。我对他一向不太了解。当他在我们这里受审时，他的高度就像纪念碑一样高。无论是作为职员还是客户，这对我来说都是一个很好的摆脱！好吧，托尼，正如我提到的，这就是他们要做的。

Mr. Guppy, refolding his arms, resettles himself against the parapet, as resuming a conversation of interest.
古比先生重新抱起双臂，重新靠在栏杆上，继续进行一场有趣的谈话。

‘They are still up to it, sir,’ says Mr. Guppy, ‘still taking stock, still examining papers, still going over the heaps and heaps of rubbish. At this rate they’ll be at it these seven years.’
“他们仍然在做这件事，先生，”古皮先生说，“仍然在盘点，仍然在检查文件，仍然在检查成堆的垃圾。按照这个速度，他们将在这七年里做到这一点。

‘And Small is helping?’
“斯莫尔也在帮忙吗？”

‘Small left us at a week’s notice. Told Kenge his grandfather’s business was too much for the old gentleman and he could better himself by undertaking it. There had been a coolness between myself and Small on account of his being so close. But he said you and I began it, and as he had me there—for we did—I put our acquaintance on the old footing. That’s how I come to know what they’re up to.’
“斯莫尔提前一周就离开了我们。告诉肯格，他祖父的生意对这位老绅士来说太过分了，他可以通过承担这件事来改善自己。由于斯莫尔如此亲密，我和他之间一直很冷淡。但他说是你和我开始的，当他让我在那里时——因为我们确实这么做了——我让我们的相识重新回到了旧的基础上。这就是我如何知道他们在做什么。

‘You haven’t looked in at all?’
“你根本就没进去看过吗？”

‘Tony,’ says Mr. Guppy, a little disconcerted, ‘to be unreserved with you, I don’t greatly relish the house, except in your company, and therefore I have not; and therefore I proposed this little appointment for our fetching away your things. There goes the hour by the clock! Tony’—Mr. Guppy becomes mysteriously and tenderly eloquent—‘it is necessary that I should impress upon your mind once more that circumstances over which I have no control have made a melancholy alteration in my most cherished plans and in that unrequited image which I formerly mentioned to you as a friend. That image is shattered, and that idol is laid low. My only wish now in connexion with the objects which I had an idea of carrying out in the court with your aid as a friend is to let ‘em alone and bury ‘em in oblivion. Do you think it possible, do you think it at all likely (I put it to you, Tony, as a friend), from your knowledge of that capricious and deep old character who fell a prey to the—spontaneous element, do you, Tony, think it at all likely that on second thoughts he put those letters away anywhere, after you saw him alive, and that they were not destroyed that night?’
“托尼，”古比先生有点不知所措地说，“我不喜欢毫无保留地和你在一起，除非有你在身边，所以我不喜欢这栋房子。”因此我提出了这个小小的约会，让我们来取走你的东西。时间一分一秒地过去了！托尼——先生。孔雀变得神秘而温柔的雄辩——“我有必要再次让你记住，我无法控制的情况已经对我最珍视的计划和我之前向你提到的那个单相思的形象产生了令人忧郁的改变。一个朋友。那个形象被粉碎了，那个偶像被放下了。我现在唯一的愿望是，在你作为朋友的帮助下，我想在法庭上实现我的目标，那就是让他们独自一人，并将他们埋葬在遗忘中。从你对那个反复无常、深沉的老角色的了解来看，你认为这可能吗？你认为这有可能吗（托尼，我作为朋友），你认为，托尼，你想一想，在你看到他还活着之后，他是否有可能把那些信放在任何地方，并且那天晚上它们没有被销毁？

Mr. Weevle reflects for some time. Shakes his head. Decidedly thinks not.
韦夫勒先生沉思了一会儿。摇摇头。坚决认为不是。

‘Tony,’ says Mr. Guppy as they walk towards the court, ‘once again understand me, as a friend. Without entering into further explanations, I may repeat that the idol is down. I have no purpose to serve now but burial in oblivion. To that I have pledged myself. I owe it to myself, and I owe it to the shattered image, as also to the circumstances over which I have no control. If you was to express to me by a gesture, by a wink, that you saw lying anywhere in your late lodgings any papers that so much as looked like the papers in question, I would pitch them into the fire, sir, on my own responsibility.’
“托尼，”当他们走向球场时，古比先生说道，“再次理解我，作为一个朋友。”在不做进一步解释的情况下，我可以重复一下，偶像已经倒下了。我现在没有任何服务的目的，除了埋葬在遗忘中。我自己对此做出了保证。我对自己负有责任，对破碎的形象负有责任，也对我无法控制的环境负有责任。如果您通过一个手势、一个眨眼的方式向我表示您在您最近的住处发现了任何看起来像所讨论的文件的文件，我会亲自将它们扔进火里，先生，责任。'

Mr. Weevle nods. Mr. Guppy, much elevated in his own opinion by having delivered these observations, with an air in part forensic and in part romantic—this gentleman having a passion for conducting anything in the form of an examination, or delivering anything in the form of a summing up or a speech—accompanies his friend with dignity to the court.
韦夫勒先生点点头。古比先生，他自己认为，通过发表这些观察结果，他的态度得到了很大的提升，他的神情一半是法医，一半是浪漫——这位绅士热衷于以检查的形式进行任何事情，或者以检查的形式提供任何东西。总结或演讲——带着尊严陪同他的朋友出庭。

Never since it has been a court has it had such a Fortunatus’ purse of gossip as in the proceedings at the rag and bottle shop. Regularly, every morning at eight, is the elder Mr. Smallweed brought down to the corner and carried in, accompanied by Mrs. Smallweed, Judy, and Bart; and regularly, all day, do they all remain there until nine at night, solaced by gipsy dinners, not abundant in quantity, from the cook’s shop, rummaging and searching, digging, delving, and diving among the treasures of the late lamented. What those treasures are they keep so secret that the court is maddened. In its delirium it imagines guineas pouring out of tea-pots, crown-pieces overflowing punch-bowls, old chairs and mattresses stuffed with Bank of England notes. It possesses itself of the sixpenny history (with highly coloured folding frontispiece) of Mr. Daniel Dancer and his sister, and also of Mr. Elwes, of Suffolk, and transfers all the facts from those authentic narratives to Mr. Krook. Twice when the dustman is called in to carry off a cartload of old paper, ashes, and broken bottles, the whole court assembles and pries into the baskets as they come forth. Many times the two gentlemen who write with the ravenous little pens on the tissue-paper are seen prowling in the neighbourhood—shy of each other, their late partnership being dissolved. The Sol skilfully carries a vein of the prevailing interest through the Harmonic nights. Little Swills, in what are professionally known as ‘patter’ allusions to the subject, is received with loud applause; and the same vocalist ‘gags’ in the regular business like a man inspired. Even Miss M. Melvilleson, in the revived Caledonian melody of ‘We’re a-Nodding,’ points the sentiment that ‘the dogs love broo’ (whatever the nature of that refreshment may be) with such archness and such a turn of the head towards next door that she is immediately understood to mean Mr. Smallweed loves to find money, and is nightly honoured with a double encore. For all this, the court discovers nothing; and as Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Perkins now communicate to the late lodger whose appearance is the signal for a general rally, it is in one continual ferment to discover everything, and more.
自从法庭成立以来，福图纳图斯的钱包里从来没有像破布和瓶子店的诉讼程序那样有如此多的流言蜚语。每天早上八点，老斯莫威德先生都会被带到角落里，由斯莫威德太太、朱迪和巴特陪同进来。他们经常整天呆在那里，直到晚上九点，从厨师店里吃着数量不多的吉卜赛晚餐来安慰自己，在那些已故的人们哀叹的宝藏中翻箱倒柜、寻找、挖掘、探索和潜入。这些宝藏到底是什么，他们保密得如此之高，以至于朝廷都抓狂了。在它的精神错乱中，它想象几尼从茶壶里倒出来，皇冠上的酒杯溢出来，旧椅子和床垫上塞满了英格兰银行的钞票。它拥有丹尼尔·丹瑟先生和他的妹妹以及萨福克郡埃尔维斯先生的六便士历史（带有色彩丰富的折叠卷首插画），并将这些真实叙述中的所有事实转移给克鲁克先生。有两次，当清洁工被叫来运走一车旧纸、灰烬和破瓶子时，整个法庭都会聚集起来，在篮子出来时撬进篮子。很多时候，人们会看到这两位用贪婪的小笔在薄纸上写字的绅士在附近徘徊——彼此害羞，他们最近的合作关系已经解散。 Sol 巧妙地在 Harmonic 之夜中体现了人们的普遍兴趣。 《Little Swills》，专业人士称之为“喋喋不休”的暗示，赢得了热烈的掌声。同样的歌手在日常活动中“搞笑”，就像一个受启发的人。就连M小姐 梅尔维尔森在《We're a-Nodding》中用复兴的喀里多尼亚旋律，指出了“狗爱兄弟”（无论茶点的性质是什么）的情感，并如此调皮地将头转向隔壁她立即​​被理解为斯莫尔韦德先生喜欢赚钱，并且每晚都会荣幸地获得双重安可表演。尽管如此，法庭却一无所获。派珀夫人和帕金斯夫人现在正在与已故房客沟通，后者的出现是一场全面集会的信号，在不断的发酵中，我们发现了一切，甚至更多。

Mr. Weevle and Mr. Guppy, with every eye in the court’s head upon them, knock at the closed door of the late lamented’s house, in a high state of popularity. But being contrary to the court’s expectation admitted, they immediately become unpopular and are considered to mean no good.
威夫勒先生和古比先生在法庭上的每一双眼睛都注视着他们，敲响了已故哀悼者紧闭的房子的门，人气很高。但与法庭承认的预期相反，它们立即变得不受欢迎，并被认为没有什么好处。

The shutters are more or less closed all over the house, and the ground-floor is sufficiently dark to require candles. Introduced into the back shop by Mr. Smallweed the younger, they, fresh from the sunlight, can at first see nothing save darkness and shadows; but they gradually discern the elder Mr. Smallweed seated in his chair upon the brink of a well or grave of waste-paper, the virtuous Judy groping therein like a female sexton, and Mrs. Smallweed on the level ground in the vicinity snowed up in a heap of paper fragments, print, and manuscript which would appear to be the accumulated compliments that have been sent flying at her in the course of the day. The whole party, Small included, are blackened with dust and dirt and present a fiendish appearance not relieved by the general aspect of the room. There is more litter and lumber in it than of old, and it is dirtier if possible; likewise, it is ghostly with traces of its dead inhabitant and even with his chalked writing on the wall.
整个房子的百叶窗或多或少都关着，底层很暗，需要蜡烛。小斯莫威德先生把他们引入后店，刚接触过阳光的他们，一开始除了黑暗和阴影什么也看不到；后来他们又被带到了后店。但他们逐渐看出年长的斯莫尔威德先生坐在一口井边或废纸堆的坟墓边上的椅子上，善良的朱迪像女教堂司事一样在里面摸索，而斯莫尔威德太太则坐在附近被雪覆盖的平地上。一堆纸片、印刷品和手稿，似乎是一天中向她飞来的累积的赞美之词。整个聚会，包括小聚会，都被灰尘和污垢熏黑，呈现出一种邪恶的外观，但房间的整体外观并没有缓解这一点。里面的垃圾和木材比以前更多了，而且如果可能的话也更脏。同样，它也显得幽灵般，有死去的居民的痕迹，甚至墙上还有他用粉笔写下的字迹。

On the entrance of visitors, Mr. Smallweed and Judy simultaneously fold their arms and stop in their researches.
当参观者进来时，斯莫尔韦德先生和朱迪同时抱起双臂，停下来研究。

‘Aha!’ croaks the old gentleman. ‘How de do, gentlemen, how de do! Come to fetch your property, Mr. Weevle? That’s well, that’s well. Ha! Ha! We should have been forced to sell you up, sir, to pay your warehouse room if you had left it here much longer. You feel quite at home here again, I dare say? Glad to see you, glad to see you!’
“啊哈！”老先生嘎嘎叫道。 ‘怎么样，先生们，怎么样！威弗勒先生，来取你的财产吗？那就好，那就好。哈！哈！先生，如果你把仓库留在这里的时间更长的话，我们就不得不卖掉你来支付你的仓库费用。我敢说你又在这里感到宾至如归了？很高兴见到你，很高兴见到你！”

Mr. Weevle, thanking him, casts an eye about. Mr. Guppy’s eye follows Mr. Weevle’s eye. Mr. Weevle’s eye comes back without any new intelligence in it. Mr. Guppy’s eye comes back and meets Mr. Smallweed’s eye. That engaging old gentleman is still murmuring, like some wound-up instrument running down, ‘How de do, sir—how de—how—‘ And then having run down, he lapses into grinning silence, as Mr. Guppy starts at seeing Mr. Tulkinghorn standing in the darkness opposite with his hands behind him.
韦夫勒先生向他表示感谢，并向四周看了看。古皮先生的目光追随威弗勒先生的目光。韦弗勒先生的眼睛恢复了，但里面没有任何新的智慧。孔雀鱼先生的目光又回来了，与斯莫威德先生的目光相遇。那位迷人的老绅士仍在低语，就像某种上紧发条的乐器跑下来，“怎么办，先生——怎么——怎么——”然后跑下来，当孔雀先生开始看到先生时，他陷入微笑的沉默。图金霍恩背负着双手站在对面的黑暗中。

‘Gentleman so kind as to act as my solicitor,’ says Grandfather Smallweed. ‘I am not the sort of client for a gentleman of such note, but he is so good!’
“这位先生非常好心，愿意担任我的律师。”斯莫威德祖父说道。 “我不是那种有名望的绅士的客户，但他太棒了！”

Mr. Guppy, slightly nudging his friend to take another look, makes a shuffling bow to Mr. Tulkinghorn, who returns it with an easy nod. Mr. Tulkinghorn is looking on as if he had nothing else to do and were rather amused by the novelty.
古比先生轻轻地推了他的朋友再看一眼，然后向图尔金霍恩先生鞠了一躬，图尔金霍恩先生也轻松地点了点头。图金霍恩先生在一旁看着，好像他没有别的事可做，并对这个新奇事物感到很有趣。

‘A good deal of property here, sir, I should say,’ Mr. Guppy observes to Mr. Smallweed.
“我应该说，这里有很多财产，先生，”古皮先生对斯莫威德先生说道。

‘Principally rags and rubbish, my dear friend! Rags and rubbish! Me and Bart and my granddaughter Judy are endeavouring to make out an inventory of what’s worth anything to sell. But we haven’t come to much as yet; we—haven’t—come—to—hah!’
“主要是破布和垃圾，我亲爱的朋友！破布和垃圾！我、巴特和我的孙女朱迪正在努力清点值得出售的物品的清单。但我们还没有取得太多进展。我们——还没——来——哈！”

Mr. Smallweed has run down again, while Mr. Weevle’s eye, attended by Mr. Guppy’s eye, has again gone round the room and come back.
小威德先生又跑下来了，而韦夫勒先生的眼睛，在孔雀先生的眼睛的陪伴下，又绕着房间转了一圈又回来了。

‘Well, sir,’ says Mr. Weevle. ‘We won’t intrude any longer if you’ll allow us to go upstairs.’
“好吧，先生，”威弗尔先生说。 “如果你允许我们上楼，我们就不会再打扰了。”

‘Anywhere, my dear sir, anywhere! You’re at home. Make yourself so, pray!’
“无论在哪里，亲爱的先生，无论在哪里！你在家。让自己成为这样，祈祷吧！

As they go upstairs, Mr. Guppy lifts his eyebrows inquiringly and looks at Tony. Tony shakes his head. They find the old room very dull and dismal, with the ashes of the fire that was burning on that memorable night yet in the discoloured grate. They have a great disinclination to touch any object, and carefully blow the dust from it first. Nor are they desirous to prolong their visit, packing the few movables with all possible speed and never speaking above a whisper.
当他们上楼时，古比先生询问地扬起眉毛，看着托尼。托尼摇摇头。他们发现旧房间非常沉闷和阴暗，在那个难忘的夜晚燃烧的火的灰烬仍在变色的炉排中。他们非常不愿意触摸任何物体，并且会先小心地吹掉上面的灰尘。他们也不想延长他们的访问时间，以尽可能快的速度收拾好少量的可移动物品，而且从来不低声说话。

‘Look here,’ says Tony, recoiling. ‘Here’s that horrible cat coming in!’
“看这里，”托尼说，后退了一步。 “那只可怕的猫进来了！”

Mr. Guppy retreats behind a chair. ‘Small told me of her. She went leaping and bounding and tearing about that night like a dragon, and got out on the house-top, and roamed about up there for a fortnight, and then came tumbling down the chimney very thin. Did you ever see such a brute? Looks as if she knew all about it, don’t she? Almost looks as if she was Krook. Shoohoo! Get out, you goblin!’
古比先生退到椅子后面。 “斯莫尔告诉我她的事。那天晚上，她像一条龙一样又蹦又跳，又撕又扯，然后爬到屋顶上，在那里徘徊了两周，然后从烟囱里滚了下来，身子瘦了。你见过这么野蛮的人吗？看起来她好像知道这一切，不是吗？看起来她几乎就是克鲁克。嘘！滚出去，你这个妖精！

Lady Jane, in the doorway, with her tiger snarl from ear to ear and her club of a tail, shows no intention of obeying; but Mr. Tulkinghorn stumbling over her, she spits at his rusty legs, and swearing wrathfully, takes her arched back upstairs. Possibly to roam the house-tops again and return by the chimney.
简女士站在门口，老虎般的咆哮声从耳边传到耳边，尾巴挥舞着，丝毫没有服从的意思。但图金霍恩先生被她绊倒了，她朝他生锈的腿吐口水，愤怒地咒骂着，把她弓着背带上楼。可能会再次在屋顶上漫步，然后从烟囱返回。

‘Mr. Guppy,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, ‘could I have a word with you?’
'先生。孔雀鱼，”图金霍恩先生说，“我能和你说句话吗？”

Mr. Guppy is engaged in collecting the Galaxy Gallery of British Beauty from the wall and depositing those works of art in their old ignoble band-box. ‘Sir,’ he returns, reddening, ‘I wish to act with courtesy towards every member of the profession, and especially, I am sure, towards a member of it so well known as yourself—I will truly add, sir, so distinguished as yourself. Still, Mr. Tulkinghorn, sir, I must stipulate that if you have any word with me, that word is spoken in the presence of my friend.’
古比先生正忙着从墙上收集英国美人银河画廊，并将这些艺术品存放在他们破旧的、不光彩的带盒里。 “先生，”他红着脸回答道，“我希望对这个行业的每一位成员都表现出礼貌，尤其是，我相信，对像你这样众所周知的人——我真的要补充一点，先生，如此杰出的人。”就像你自己一样。不过，图金霍恩先生，先生，我必须规定，如果您对我有任何话，必须当着我朋友的面说。

‘Oh, indeed?’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn.
“哦，确实如此？”图金霍恩先生说。

‘Yes, sir. My reasons are not of a personal nature at all, but they are amply sufficient for myself.’
'是的先生。我的理由根本不是个人性质的，但对我自己来说已经足够了。

‘No doubt, no doubt.’ Mr. Tulkinghorn is as imperturbable as the hearthstone to which he has quietly walked. ‘The matter is not of that consequence that I need put you to the trouble of making any conditions, Mr. Guppy.’ He pauses here to smile, and his smile is as dull and rusty as his pantaloons. ‘You are to be congratulated, Mr. Guppy; you are a fortunate young man, sir.’
“毫无疑问，毫无疑问。”图金霍恩先生就像他悄悄走到的炉边一样镇定自若。 “问题并不在于我需要麻烦你提出任何条件，古皮先生。”他停了下来，微笑着，他的微笑和他的马裤一样暗淡而生锈。 “值得恭喜你，古比先生；你是一个幸运的年轻人，先生。”

‘Pretty well so, Mr. Tulkinghorn; I don’t complain.’
“很好，图金霍恩先生；我不抱怨。

‘Complain? High friends, free admission to great houses, and access to elegant ladies! Why, Mr. Guppy, there are people in London who would give their ears to be you.’
'抱怨？高级朋友，免费进入豪宅，接触优雅女士！为什么，古比先生，伦敦有人愿意倾听你的声音。

Mr. Guppy, looking as if he would give his own reddening and still reddening ears to be one of those people at present instead of himself, replies, ‘Sir, if I attend to my profession and do what is right by Kenge and Carboy, my friends and acquaintances are of no consequence to them nor to any member of the profession, not excepting Mr. Tulkinghorn of the Fields. I am not under any obligation to explain myself further; and with all respect for you, sir, and without offence—I repeat, without offence—‘
顾比先生看上去似乎愿意献出自己那双正在泛红、仍在泛红的耳朵，代替他自己，成为目前这些人中的一员，他回答说：“先生，如果我专注于我的职业，做肯格和卡博伊认为正确的事情，我的朋友和熟人对他们或任何专业人士来说都没有影响，除了菲尔兹的图金霍恩先生。我没有义务进一步解释自己；先生，我谨向您致以崇高敬意，无意冒犯——我重复一遍，无意冒犯——”

‘Oh, certainly!’
“哦，当然！”

‘—I don’t intend to do it.’
“——我不想这么做。”

‘Quite so,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn with a calm nod. ‘Very good; I see by these portraits that you take a strong interest in the fashionable great, sir?’
“确实如此，”图尔金霍恩先生平静地点点头说道。 '非常好;我从这些肖像中看出您对时尚伟人很感兴趣，先生？

He addresses this to the astounded Tony, who admits the soft impeachment.
他向震惊的托尼说出了这句话，托尼承认了软弹劾。

‘A virtue in which few Englishmen are deficient,’ observes Mr. Tulkinghorn. He has been standing on the hearthstone with his back to the smoked chimney-piece, and now turns round with his glasses to his eyes. ‘Who is this? ‘Lady Dedlock.’ Ha! A very good likeness in its way, but it wants force of character. Good day to you, gentlemen; good day!’
图尔金霍恩先生评论说：“很少有英国人缺乏这种美德。”他一直站在炉石上，背对着冒着烟的烟囱，现在转过身来，把眼镜放在眼睛上。 '这是谁？ “戴德洛克女士。”哈！其方式非常相似，但它需要性格的力量。先生们，美好的一天！再会！'

When he has walked out, Mr. Guppy, in a great perspiration, nerves himself to the hasty completion of the taking down of the Galaxy Gallery, concluding with Lady Dedlock.
当他走出去时，古比先生满头大汗，他给自己鼓足了勇气，准备匆忙完成对银河画廊的拆除，最后以戴德洛克夫人为结束。

‘Tony,’ he says hurriedly to his astonished companion, ‘let us be quick in putting the things together and in getting out of this place. It were in vain longer to conceal from you, Tony, that between myself and one of the members of a swan-like aristocracy whom I now hold in my hand, there has been undivulged communication and association. The time might have been when I might have revealed it to you. It never will be more. It is due alike to the oath I have taken, alike to the shattered idol, and alike to circumstances over which I have no control, that the whole should be buried in oblivion. I charge you as a friend, by the interest you have ever testified in the fashionable intelligence, and by any little advances with which I may have been able to accommodate you, so to bury it without a word of inquiry!’
“托尼，”他急忙对他惊讶的同伴说道，“让我们快点把东西收拾好，然后离开这个地方。”托尼，我再向你隐瞒我和现在握在手中的一位天鹅般的贵族成员之间，一直存在着不为人知的交流和交往，这是徒劳的。也许是时候我可以向你透露它了。永远不会更多。由于我所发的誓言，由于破碎的偶像，由于我无法控制的情况，整个事情都应该被埋葬在遗忘中。我以朋友的身份责备你，因为你对时尚情报的兴趣，以及我可能为你提供的任何一点进步，所以不问任何一句话就将它埋葬！

This charge Mr. Guppy delivers in a state little short of forensic lunacy, while his friend shows a dazed mind in his whole head of hair and even in his cultivated whiskers.
古比先生提出的这一指控近乎法医精神错乱，而他的朋友则在他的整个头发甚至精心修剪的胡须中表现出一种茫然的精神。

CHAPTER XL
第二十章


National and Domestic
国内及国内

England has been in a dreadful state for some weeks. Lord Coodle would go out, Sir Thomas Doodle wouldn’t come in, and there being nobody in Great Britain (to speak of) except Coodle and Doodle, there has been no government. It is a mercy that the hostile meeting between those two great men, which at one time seemed inevitable, did not come off, because if both pistols had taken effect, and Coodle and Doodle had killed each other, it is to be presumed that England must have waited to be governed until young Coodle and young Doodle, now in frocks and long stockings, were grown up. This stupendous national calamity, however, was averted by Lord Coodle’s making the timely discovery that if in the heat of debate he had said that he scorned and despised the whole ignoble career of Sir Thomas Doodle, he had merely meant to say that party differences should never induce him to withhold from it the tribute of his warmest admiration; while it as opportunely turned out, on the other hand, that Sir Thomas Doodle had in his own bosom expressly booked Lord Coodle to go down to posterity as the mirror of virtue and honour. Still England has been some weeks in the dismal strait of having no pilot (as was well observed by Sir Leicester Dedlock) to weather the storm; and the marvellous part of the matter is that England has not appeared to care very much about it, but has gone on eating and drinking and marrying and giving in marriage as the old world did in the days before the flood. But Coodle knew the danger, and Doodle knew the danger, and all their followers and hangers-on had the clearest possible perception of the danger. At last Sir Thomas Doodle has not only condescended to come in, but has done it handsomely, bringing in with him all his nephews, all his male cousins, and all his brothers-in-law. So there is hope for the old ship yet.
几周以来，英格兰一直处于可怕的状态。库德尔勋爵会出去，托马斯·杜德尔爵士不会进来，而英国除了库德尔和杜德尔之外没有任何人（可以说），没有政府。幸运的是，这两位伟人之间一度看似不可避免的敌对会面并没有发生，因为如果两支手枪都发挥作用，并且库德和杜德互相杀死了对方，那么就可以认为英格兰一定要等到年轻的库德和年轻的杜德（现在穿着连衣裙和长袜）长大后才接受统治。然而，库德尔勋爵及时发现，如果他在激烈的辩论中表示蔑视和鄙视托马斯·杜德尔爵士的整个不光彩的职业生涯，那么他的意思只是说党派分歧应该被避免，从而避免了这场巨大的国家灾难。永远不要诱使他拒绝表达他最热烈的钦佩；另一方面，事实证明，托马斯·杜德尔爵士在自己的心中明确地指定库德尔勋爵作为美德和荣誉的镜子留传后世。尽管如此，英格兰已经有几个星期陷入了没有飞行员（莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士清楚地观察到）来度过这场风暴的悲惨困境；事情的奇妙之处在于，英国似乎并不太关心此事，而是继续像洪水前的旧世界那样吃喝嫁娶。但库德知道危险，涂鸦也知道危险，他们所有的追随者和追随者都对危险有最清晰的认识。 最后，托马斯·杜德尔爵士不仅屈尊进来，而且做得很漂亮，把他所有的侄子、所有的堂兄弟姐妹和所有的妹夫都带来了。所以这艘旧船还有希望。

Doodle has found that he must throw himself upon the country, chiefly in the form of sovereigns and beer. In this metamorphosed state he is available in a good many places simultaneously and can throw himself upon a considerable portion of the country at one time. Britannia being much occupied in pocketing Doodle in the form of sovereigns, and swallowing Doodle in the form of beer, and in swearing herself black in the face that she does neither— plainly to the advancement of her glory and morality—the London season comes to a sudden end, through all the Doodleites and Coodleites dispersing to assist Britannia in those religious exercises.
涂鸦发现他必须投身于这个国家，主要是以金币和啤酒的形式。在这种变形的状态下，他可以同时出现在很多地方，并且可以一次将自己投入到该国的相当大一部分地区。大不列颠全神贯注地把金币形式的涂鸦装进口袋，以啤酒的形式吞下涂鸦，并当着黑脸发誓她两者都不做——显然是为了提高她的荣耀和道德——伦敦季节到来了突然结束，所有的杜德派和库德派都分散开来协助不列颠尼亚进行这些宗教活动。

Hence Mrs. Rouncewell, housekeeper at Chesney Wold, foresees, though no instructions have yet come down, that the family may shortly be expected, together with a pretty large accession of cousins and others who can in any way assist the great Constitutional work. And hence the stately old dame, taking Time by the forelock, leads him up and down the staircases, and along the galleries and passages, and through the rooms, to witness before he grows any older that everything is ready, that floors are rubbed bright, carpets spread, curtains shaken out, beds puffed and patted, still-room and kitchen cleared for action—all things prepared as beseems the Dedlock dignity.
因此，切斯尼沃尔德的管家朗斯韦尔夫人预见到，虽然还没有下达指示，但很快就会迎来这个家庭，以及相当多的堂兄弟姐妹和其他能够以任何方式协助伟大宪法工作的人。于是这位庄严的老太太抓住了时间的前发，领着他上下楼梯，沿着画廊和通道，穿过房间，在他变老之前见证一切都准备好了，地板被擦得光亮。铺开地毯，抖开窗帘，把床铺得鼓鼓的，拍拍拍打，静室和厨房都清理干净，准备行动——一切准备工作都符合戴德洛克的尊严。

This present summer evening, as the sun goes down, the preparations are complete. Dreary and solemn the old house looks, with so many appliances of habitation and with no inhabitants except the pictured forms upon the walls. So did these come and go, a Dedlock in possession might have ruminated passing along; so did they see this gallery hushed and quiet, as I see it now; so think, as I think, of the gap that they would make in this domain when they were gone; so find it, as I find it, difficult to believe that it could be without them; so pass from my world, as I pass from theirs, now closing the reverberating door; so leave no blank to miss them, and so die.
今夏的傍晚，随着太阳落山，准备工作已经完成。老房子看起来沉闷而庄严，有那么多居住用具，除了墙上的图画外，没有任何人。就这样，这些东西来了又走，一个拥有球权的戴德洛克可能会思考如何传球；他们也看到这个画廊寂静无声，就像我现在看到的那样。因此，正如我所想的那样，想想当他们离开后，他们在这个领域会造成怎样的差距？因此，正如我所发现的那样，很难相信没有它们就可以实现。因此，离开我的世界，就像我离开他们的世界一样，现在关上回响的门；所以不要留下空白来错过他们，然后死去。

Through some of the fiery windows beautiful from without, and set, at this sunset hour, not in dull-grey stone but in a glorious house of gold, the light excluded at other windows pours in rich, lavish, overflowing like the summer plenty in the land. Then do the frozen Dedlocks thaw. Strange movements come upon their features as the shadows of leaves play there. A dense justice in a corner is beguiled into a wink. A staring baronet, with a truncheon, gets a dimple in his chin. Down into the bosom of a stony shepherdess there steals a fleck of light and warmth that would have done it good a hundred years ago. One ancestress of Volumnia, in highheeled shoes, very like her—casting the shadow of that virgin event before her full two centuries—shoots out into a halo and becomes a saint. A maid of honour of the court of Charles the Second, with large round eyes (and other charms to correspond), seems to bathe in glowing water, and it ripples as it glows.
透过一些火红的窗户，从外面看很美丽，在这个日落的时刻，不是在暗灰色的石头上，而是在一座辉煌的金屋子里，其他窗户所排除的光线倾泻而下，丰富、奢华，像夏天的充足一样溢出来。那片土地。然后将冷冻的 Dedlocks 解冻。当树叶的影子在他们脸上游动时，他们的脸上出现了奇怪的动作。角落里的浓密正义被眨眼所迷惑。一位拿着警棍、目光凝视的准男爵，下巴上有一个酒窝。在一个石质牧羊女的怀里，偷走了一丝光亮和温暖，这在一百年前是有用的。沃伦尼亚的一位女祖先，穿着高跟鞋，非常像她——在她整整两个世纪之前投下那场处女事件的阴影——射出光环，成为一名圣人。查理二世宫廷的一位伴娘，长着圆圆的大眼睛（还有其他相应的魅力），似乎沐浴在发光的水中，发光时水波荡漾。

But the fire of the sun is dying. Even now the floor is dusky, and shadow slowly mounts the walls, bringing the Dedlocks down like age and death. And now, upon my Lady’s picture over the great chimneypiece, a weird shade falls from some old tree, that turns it pale, and flutters it, and looks as if a great arm held a veil or hood, watching an opportunity to draw it over her. Higher and darker rises shadow on the wall—now a red gloom on the ceiling—now the fire is out.
但太阳之火正在熄灭。即使现在，地板还是昏暗的，阴影慢慢爬上墙壁，像衰老和死亡一样让戴洛克一家黯然失色。现在，在我夫人的大烟囱上方的照片上，一种奇怪的阴影从某棵老树上落下，使它变得苍白，并使其飘动，看起来好像一只巨大的手臂握住了面纱或兜帽，等待机会将其拉下来她。墙上的阴影越来越高、越来越暗——现在天花板上出现了红色的阴影——现在火已经熄灭了。

All that prospect, which from the terrace looked so near, has moved solemnly away and changed—not the first nor the last of beautiful things that look so near and will so change—into a distant phantom. Light mists arise, and the dew falls, and all the sweet scents in the garden are heavv in the air. Now the woods settle into great masses as if they were each one profound tree. And now the moon rises to separate them, and to glimmer here and there in horizontal lines behind their stems, and to make the avenue a pavement of light among high cathedral arches fantastically broken.
所有从露台上看去如此近的景象，都庄严地移开并改变了——不是第一个，也不是最后一个看起来如此近且将如此变化的美丽事物——变成了遥远的幻影。轻雾升起，露珠落下，花园里所有的甜香都弥漫在空气中。现在，树林聚集成一大片，仿佛每一棵都是一棵玄树。现在，月亮升起，将它们分开，并在它们的茎后面以水平线闪烁，使大道成为高高的大教堂拱门之间的光路，令人难以置信地破碎。

Now the moon is high; and the great house, needing habitation more than ever, is like a body without life. Now it is even awful, stealing through it, to think of the live people who have slept in the solitary bedrooms, to say nothing of the dead. Now is the time for shadow, when every corner is a cavern and every downward step a pit, when the stained glass is reflected in pale and faded hues upon the floors, when anything and everything can be made of the heavy staircase beams excepting their own proper shapes, when the armour has dull lights upon it not easily to be distinguished from stealthy movement, and when barred helmets are frightfully suggestive of heads inside. But of all the shadows in Chesney Wold, the shadow in the long drawing-room upon my Lady’s picture is the first to come, the last to be disturbed. At this hour and by this light it changes into threatening hands raised up and menacing the handsome face with every breath that stirs.
现在月亮高高挂起；这座大房子比以往任何时候都更需要居住，就像一具没有生命的身体。现在，偷偷地穿过它，想到那些睡在孤独的卧室里的活人，就更可怕了，更不用说死者了。现在是阴影的时候了，当每个角落都是一个洞穴，每一个向下的台阶都是一个坑，当彩色玻璃以苍白和褪色的色调反射在地板上时，当任何东西都可以由沉重的楼梯梁制成时，除了它们自己的梁之外正确的形状，当盔甲上有暗淡的灯光时，很难将其与隐秘的运动区分开来，当带栏的头盔可怕地暗示着头在里面时。但在切斯尼沃尔德的所有阴影中，长客厅里夫人画像上的阴影是最先出现的，也是最后一个受到干扰的。在这个时刻，在这样的光线下，它变成了举起的威胁性的双手，随着每一次呼吸的搅动，威胁着这张英俊的脸。

‘She is not well, ma’am,’ says a groom in Mrs. Rouncewell’s audience-chamber.
“她身体不太好，女士，”朗斯韦尔夫人的觐见厅里的一位新郎说道。

‘My Lady not well! What’s the matter?’
‘夫人身体不太好！怎么了？'

‘Why, my Lady has been but poorly, ma’am, since she was last here— I don’t mean with the family, ma’am, but when she was here as a bird of passage like. My Lady has not been out much for her and has kept her room a good deal.’
“为什么，自从她上次来到这里以来，我的女士一直很糟糕——我不是指与家人在一起，女士，而是当她作为候鸟来到这里时。夫人并没有为她外出太多，而且把她的房间保养得很好。

‘Chesney Wold, Thomas,’ rejoins the housekeeper with proud complacency, ‘will set my Lady up! There is no finer air and no healthier soil in the world!’
“切斯尼·沃尔德，托马斯，”管家自豪地自满地回答道，“会安排我的女士的！”世界上没有比这更好的空气和更健康的土壤了！”

Thomas may have his own personal opinions on this subject, probably hints them in his manner of smoothing his sleek head from the nape of his neck to his temples, but he forbears to express them further and retires to the servants’ hall to regale on cold meat-pie and ale.
托马斯可能对这个问题有他自己的个人看法，很可能通过他抚平光滑的头从颈背到太阳穴的方式暗示了这些看法，但他没有进一步表达这些看法，而是退到仆人大厅享用冷饮。肉馅饼和麦芽酒。

This groom is the pilot-fish before the nobler shark. Next evening, down come Sir Leicester and my Lady with their largest retinue, and down come the cousins and others from all the points of the compass. Thenceforth for some weeks backward and forward rush mysterious men with no names, who fly about all those particular parts of the country on which Doodle is at present throwing himself in an auriferous and malty shower, but who are merely persons of a restless disposition and never do anything anywhere.
这条新郎是高贵鲨鱼之前的领航鱼。第二天晚上，莱斯特爵士和夫人带着他们最大的随从下来，表兄弟姐妹和其他人从罗盘的各个角落下来。从那以后的几个星期里，来回奔波的没有名字的神秘人，他们在这个国家的所有特定地区飞来飞去，而嘟嘟目前正在其上沐浴着金色和麦芽味的阵雨，但他们只是性格焦躁不安的人，从不这样做。随时随地做任何事。

On these national occasions Sir Leicester finds the cousins useful. A better man than the Honourable Bob Stables to meet the Hunt at dinner, there could not possibly be. Better got up gentlemen than the other cousins to ride over to polling-booths and hustings here and there, and show themselves on the side of England, it would be hard to find. Volumnia is a little dim, but she is of the true descent; and there are many who appreciate her sprightly conversation, her French conundrums so old as to have become in the cycles of time almost new again, the honour of taking the fair Dedlock in to dinner, or even the privilege of her hand in the dance. On these national occasions dancing may be a patriotic service, and Volumnia is constantly seen hopping about for the good of an ungrateful and unpensioning country.
在这些全国性的场合，莱斯特爵士发现堂兄弟们很有用。不可能有比鲍勃·斯泰布尔斯阁下更好的人来与亨特共进晚餐。先生们，最好站起来，比其他堂兄妹骑车去各地的投票站和竞选集会，表明自己站在英格兰一边，否则很难找到。沃伦尼娅虽然有点暗淡，但她是真正的血统；有很多人欣赏她活泼的谈话，她的法国难题，这些古老的问题在时间的循环中几乎又变成了新的，她荣幸地邀请美丽的戴德洛克共进晚餐，甚至欣赏她在舞会上牵手的特权。在这些全国性的场合，跳舞可能是一种爱国服务，人们经常看到沃伦尼亚为了一个忘恩负义、没有养老金的国家而跳来跳去。

My Lady takes no great pains to entertain the numerous guests, and being still unwell, rarely appears until late in the day. But at all the dismal dinners, leaden lunches, basilisk balls, and other melancholy pageants, her mere appearance is a relief. As to Sir Leicester, he conceives it utterly impossible that anything can be wanting, in any direction, by any one who has the good fortune to be received under that roof; and in a state of sublime satisfaction, he moves among the company, a magnificent refrigerator.
夫人并不费心去招待众多的客人，而且身体仍然不舒服，很少到深夜才出现。但在所有令人沮丧的晚餐、沉闷的午餐、蛇怪舞会和其他忧郁的盛会中，她的出现本身就让人松了一口气。至于莱斯特爵士，他认为，对于任何有幸在那个屋檐下受到接待的人来说，在任何方面都不可能有任何欠缺。他怀着无比满足的心情，在公司里那台宏伟的冰箱里走来走去。

Daily the cousins trot through dust and canter over roadside turf, away to hustings and polling-booths (with leather gloves and hunting-whips for the counties and kid gloves and riding-canes for the boroughs), and daily bring back reports on which Sir Leicester holds forth after dinner. Daily the restless men who have no occupation in life present the appearance of being rather busy. Daily Volumnia has a little cousinly talk with Sir Leicester on the state of the nation, from which Sir Leicester is disposed to conclude that Volumnia is a more reflecting woman than he had thought her.
每天，堂兄弟们在尘土中小跑，在路边的草坪上慢跑，前往投票站和投票站（县戴着皮手套和猎鞭，行政区戴着羊皮手套和骑手杖），每天带回有关先生的报告莱斯特在晚餐后继续讨论。生活中没有职业、焦躁不安的人们每天都显得很忙碌。 《每日沃伦尼亚》与莱斯特爵士就国家状况进行了一次堂兄般的谈话，莱斯特爵士从谈话中得出结论，沃伦尼亚是一个比他想象的更善于思考的女人。

‘How are we getting on?’ says Miss Volumnia, clasping her hands. ‘ARE we safe?’
“我们相处得怎么样？”沃伦尼亚小姐紧握双手说道。 “我们安全吗？”

The mighty business is nearly over by this time, and Doodle will throw himself off the country in a few days more. Sir Leicester has just appeared in the long drawing-room after dinner, a bright particular star surrounded by clouds of cousins.
此时，伟大的事业已经接近尾声，几天后，涂鸦就会离开这个国家。晚饭后，莱斯特爵士刚刚出现在长长的客厅里，他就像一颗明亮的星星，被一群表兄弟包围着。

‘Volumnia,’ replies Sir Leicester, who has a list in his hand, ‘we are doing tolerably.’
“沃伦尼亚，”莱斯特爵士回答道，他手里拿着一份清单，“我们做得还算可以。”

‘Only tolerably!’
“只能忍受！”

Although it is summer weather, Sir Leicester always has his own particular fire in the evening. He takes his usual screened seat near it and repeats with much firmness and a little displeasure, as who should say, I am not a common man, and when I say tolerably, it must not be understood as a common expression, ‘Volumnia, we are doing tolerably.’
虽然是夏天的天气，但莱斯特爵士在晚上总是有自己独特的篝火。他坐在靠近它的通常的屏蔽座位上，以非常坚定和有点不高兴的态度重复，谁应该说，我不是一个普通人，当我说可以容忍时，它一定不能被理解为一个常见的表达，“Volumnia，我们表现还算可以。

‘At least there is no opposition to YOU,’ Volumnia asserts with confidence.
“至少没有人反对你，”沃伦尼亚自信地断言。

‘No, Volumnia. This distracted country has lost its senses in many respects, I grieve to say, but—‘
“不，沃伦尼亚。”我悲伤地说，这个心烦意乱的国家在很多方面都失去了理智，但是——”

‘It is not so mad as that. I am glad to hear it!’
‘事情没那么疯狂。我很高兴听到这个消息！

Volumnia’s finishing the sentence restores her to favour. Sir Leicester, with a gracious inclination of his head, seems to say to himself, ‘A sensible woman this, on the whole, though occasionally precipitate.’
沃伦尼亚的判决结束后，她重新获得了青睐。莱斯特爵士亲切地歪着头，似乎在对自己说：“总的来说，这是一个明智的女人，尽管偶尔会突然发生。”

In fact, as to this question of opposition, the fair Dedlock’s observation was superfluous, Sir Leicester on these occasions always delivering in his own candidateship, as a kind of handsome wholesale order to be promptly executed. Two other little seats that belong to him he treats as retail orders of less importance, merely sending down the men and signifying to the tradespeople, ‘You will have the goodness to make these materials into two members of Parliament and to send them home when done.’
事实上，对于这个反对的问题，公平的戴德洛克的观察是多余的，莱斯特爵士在这些场合总是以他自己的候选人身份交付，作为一种需要立即执行的漂亮的批发命令。属于他的另外两个小席位，他将其视为不太重要的零售订单，只是派出人员并向商人表示，“你们将有幸将这些材料制成两名国会议员，并在完成后将他们送回家” .'

‘I regret to say, Volumnia, that in many places the people have shown a bad spirit, and that this opposition to the government has been of a most determined and most implacable description.’
“我遗憾地说，沃伦尼亚，在许多地方，人民表现出了恶劣的精神，这种对政府的反对是最坚决、最无情的。”

‘W-r-retches!’ says Volumnia.
“干、干、干呕！”沃伦尼亚说道。

‘Even,’ proceeds Sir Leicester, glancing at the circumjacent cousins on sofas and ottomans, ‘even in many—in fact, in most—of those places in which the government has carried it against a faction—‘
“甚至，”莱斯特爵士继续说道，扫了一眼周围沙发和脚凳上的表兄弟，“甚至在许多——事实上，在大多数——政府对某个派系采取行动的地方——”

(Note, by the way, that the Coodleites are always a faction with the Doodleites, and that the Doodleites occupy exactly the same position towards the Coodleites.)
（顺便说一下，请注意，Coodleites 始终与 Doodleites 是一个派系，并且 Doodleites 对 Coodleites 占据完全相同的位置。）

‘—Even in them I am shocked, for the credit of Englishmen, to be constrained to inform you that the party has not triumphed without being put to an enormous expense. Hundreds,’ says Sir Leicester, eyeing the cousins with increasing dignity and swelling indignation, ‘hundreds of thousands of pounds!’
“——即使在这些文章中，我也感到震惊，为了英国人的信誉，我不得不告诉你们，该党在没有付出巨大代价的情况下就没有取得胜利。数百英镑，”莱斯特爵士说道，看着表兄弟俩，眼神中的尊严与日俱增，愤怒越来越高，“数十万英镑！”

If Volumnia have a fault, it is the fault of being a trifle too innocent, seeing that the innocence which would go extremely well with a sash and tucker is a little out of keeping with the rouge and pearl necklace. Howbeit, impelled by innocence, she asks, ‘What for?’
如果说沃伦尼娅有什么缺点的话，那就是有点太天真了，因为与腰带和褶皱搭配得天真无邪，与胭脂和珍珠项链却有点格格不入。然而，出于纯真，她问道：“为什么？”

‘Volumnia,’ remonstrates Sir Leicester with his utmost severity. ‘Volumnia!’
“沃伦尼亚，”莱斯特爵士极其严厉地抗议道。 “沃卢姆尼亚！”

‘No, no, I don’t mean what for,’ cries Volumnia with her favourite little scream. ‘How stupid I am! I mean what a pity!’
“不，不，我不是说为什么，”沃伦尼亚用她最喜欢的小尖叫声喊道。 ‘我多么愚蠢啊！我的意思是多么遗憾啊！

‘I am glad,’ returns Sir Leicester, ‘that you do mean what a pity.’
“我很高兴，”莱斯特爵士回答道，“你的意思确实很可惜。”

Volumnia hastens to express her opinion that the shocking people ought to be tried as traitors and made to support the party.
沃伦尼亚赶紧表达了她的观点，认为这些令人震惊的人应该被当作叛徒来审判，并让他们支持党。

‘I am glad, Volumnia,’ repeats Sir Leicester, unmindful of these mollifying sentiments, ‘that you do mean what a pity. It is disgraceful to the electors. But as you, though inadvertently and without intending so unreasonable a question, asked me ‘what for?’ let me reply to you. For necessary expenses. And I trust to your good sense, Volumnia, not to pursue the subject, here or elsewhere.’
“我很高兴，沃伦尼娅，”莱斯特爵士重复道，不顾这些安抚的情绪，“你的意思确实很可惜。”这是对选民的耻辱。但是，当你无意中问我“为什么？”时，让我回答你。用于必要的开支。我相信你的理智，沃伦尼亚，不要在这里或其他地方追究这个话题。

Sir Leicester feels it incumbent on him to observe a crushing aspect towards Volumnia because it is whispered abroad that these necessary expenses will, in some two hundred election petitions, be unpleasantly connected with the word bribery, and because some graceless jokers have consequently suggested the omission from the Church service of the ordinary supplication in behalf of the High Court of Parliament and have recommended instead that the prayers of the congregation be requested for six hundred and fifty-eight gentlemen in a very unhealthy state.
莱斯特爵士认为他有责任观察到对沃伦尼亚的压倒性的一面，因为国外有传言说，在大约两百份选举请愿书中，这些必要的开支将与贿赂这个词令人不愉快地联系在一起，而且因为一些无礼的玩笑者因此建议忽略这一点教会代表议会高等法院举行普通祈祷仪式，并建议为六百五十八位健康状况极差的绅士请求会众祈祷。

‘I suppose,’ observes Volumnia, having taken a little time to recover her spirits after her late castigation, ‘I suppose Mr. Tulkinghorn has been worked to death.’
“我想，”沃卢尼娅在她最近的严厉批评后花了一点时间恢复精神后说道，“我想图金霍恩先生已经被累死了。”

‘I don’t know,’ says Sir Leicester, opening his eyes, ‘why Mr. Tulkinghorn should be worked to death. I don’t know what Mr. Tulkinghorn’s engagements may be. He is not a candidate.’
“我不知道，”莱斯特爵士睁开眼睛说道，“为什么图尔金霍恩先生要被劳累致死。我不知道图尔金霍恩先生的任务是什么。他不是候选人。

Volumnia had thought he might have been employed. Sir Leicester could desire to know by whom, and what for. Volumnia, abashed again, suggests, by somebody—to advise and make arrangements. Sir Leicester is not aware that any client of Mr. Tulkinghorn has been in need of his assistance.
沃伦尼亚原以为他可能已经被雇用了。莱斯特爵士可能想知道是谁干的、为了什么目的。沃伦尼亚再次感到羞愧，有人建议——建议并做出安排。莱斯特爵士并不知道图尔金霍恩先生的任何客户需要他的帮助。

Lady Dedlock, seated at an open window with her arm upon its cushioned ledge and looking out at the evening shadows falling on the park, has seemed to attend since the lawyer’s name was mentioned.
自从提到律师的名字以来，戴德洛克夫人坐在一扇开着的窗户前，手臂搭在带软垫的窗台上，望着傍晚落在公园上的影子。

A languid cousin with a moustache in a state of extreme debility now observes from his couch that man told him ya’as’dy that Tulkinghorn had gone down t’ that iron place t’ give legal ‘pinion ‘bout something, and that contest being over t’ day, ‘twould be highly jawlly thing if Tulkinghorn should ‘pear with news that Coodle man was floored.
一个留着小胡子、处于极度虚弱状态的疲惫表弟现在在沙发上观察到，那个人告诉他，图金霍恩已经到了那个铁地方，对某件事给予法律“支持”，而那场比赛正在今天，如果图金霍恩听到库德曼被击倒的消息，那将是一件非常下巴的事情。

Mercury in attendance with coffee informs Sir Leicester, hereupon, that Mr. Tulkinghorn has arrived and is taking dinner. My Lady turns her head inward for the moment, then looks out again as before.
墨丘利带着咖啡出席，通知莱斯特爵士图尔金霍恩先生已经抵达并正在吃晚饭。夫人暂时将头向内转了一会儿，然后又像以前一样向外望去。

Volumnia is charmed to hear that her delight is come. He is so original, such a stolid creature, such an immense being for knowing all sorts of things and never telling them! Volumnia is persuaded that he must be a Freemason. Is sure he is at the head of a lodge, and wears short aprons, and is made a perfect idol of with candlesticks and trowels. These lively remarks the fair Dedlock delivers in her youthful manner, while making a purse.
沃伦尼娅听到她的喜悦即将到来，很高兴。他是如此原始，如此冷漠的生物，如此伟大的存在，知道各种各样的事情却从不告诉他们！沃伦尼亚确信他一定是共济会成员。确信他是一家旅馆的负责人，穿着短围裙，用烛台和抹子做成了完美的偶像。美丽的戴德洛克在制作钱包时，以她年轻的态度说出了这些生动的言论。

‘He has not been here once,’ she adds, ‘since I came. I really had some thoughts of breaking my heart for the inconstant creature. I had almost made up my mind that he was dead.’
“自从我来之后，他就没有来过这里一次，”她补充道。我真的有些想为这个反复无常的生物而伤透我的心。我几乎已经下定决心他已经死了。

It may be the gathering gloom of evening, or it may be the darker gloom within herself, but a shade is on my Lady’s face, as if she thought, ‘I would he were!’
也许是夜色渐浓，也许是她内心的阴郁，但我夫人的脸上却笼罩着阴影，仿佛她在想：“我希望他是这样！”

‘Mr. Tulkinghorn,’ says Sir Leicester, ‘is always welcome here and always discreet wheresoever he is. A very valuable person, and deservedly respected.’
'先生。莱斯特爵士说，图金霍恩在这里总是受到欢迎，而且无论他身在何处，他总是很谨慎。一个非常有价值的人，值得尊重。”

The debilitated cousin supposes he is ‘‘normously rich fler.’
这位虚弱的表弟认为他“非常富有”。

‘He has a stake in the country,’ says Sir Leicester, ‘I have no doubt. He is, of course, handsomely paid, and he associates almost on a footing of equality with the highest society.’
“他对这个国家有利害关系，”莱斯特爵士说，“我毫不怀疑。”当然，他的薪水很高，而且他几乎在平等的基础上与上流社会交往。

Everybody starts. For a gun is fired close by.
大家开始。因为有枪在附近开火。

‘Good gracious, what’s that?’ cries Volumnia with her little withered scream.
“天哪，那是什么？”沃伦妮娅用她微弱的尖叫声喊道。

‘A rat,’ says my Lady. ‘And they have shot him.’
“一只老鼠，”夫人说。 “他们开枪打死了他。”

Enter Mr. Tulkinghorn, followed by Mercuries with lamps and candles.
图金霍恩先生上，水星提着灯和蜡烛紧随其后。

‘No, no,’ says Sir Leicester, ‘I think not. My Lady, do you object to the twilight?’
“不，不，”莱斯特爵士说，“我想不是。”夫人，您反对黄昏吗？

On the contrary, my Lady prefers it.
相反，夫人更喜欢它。

‘Volumnia?’
“沃卢尼亚？”

Oh! Nothing is so delicious to Volumnia as to sit and talk in the dark.
哦！对于沃伦尼亚来说，没有什么比在黑暗中坐下来聊天更美妙的事情了。

‘Then take them away,’ says Sir Leicester. ‘Tulkinghorn, I beg your pardon. How do you do?’
“那就把它们带走，”莱斯特爵士说。 “图尔金霍恩，请原谅。你好吗？'

Mr. Tulkinghorn with his usual leisurely ease advances, renders his passing homage to my Lady, shakes Sir Leicester’s hand, and subsides into the chair proper to him when he has anything to communicate, on the opposite side of the Baronet’s little newspaper-table. Sir Leicester is apprehensive that my Lady, not being very well, will take cold at that open window. My Lady is obliged to him, but would rather sit there for the air. Sir Leicester rises, adjusts her scarf about her, and returns to his seat. Mr. Tulkinghorn in the meanwhile takes a pinch of snuff.
图金霍恩先生一如既往地从容不迫地走上前来，向我的夫人致以短暂的敬意，与莱斯特爵士握手，当他有什么话要交流时，就坐到男爵小报纸桌对面适合他的椅子上。莱斯特爵士担心夫人身体不太好，会在开着的窗户前着凉。夫人很感激他，但她宁愿坐在那儿透透气。莱斯特爵士站起身来，整理了一下围巾，然后回到座位上。与此同时，图金霍恩先生吸了一口鼻烟。

‘Now,’ says Sir Leicester. ‘How has that contest gone?’
“现在，”莱斯特爵士说。 “那场比赛进行得怎么样了？”

‘Oh, hollow from the beginning. Not a chance. They have brought in both their people. You are beaten out of all reason. Three to one.’
‘哦，从一开始就空洞。没有机会。他们把他们的人都带来了。你被无缘无​​故地打了。三对一。

It is a part of Mr. Tulkinghorn’s policy and mastery to have no political opinions; indeed, NO opinions. Therefore he says ‘you’ are beaten, and not ‘we.’
图尔金霍恩先生的政策和专长之一是不持有任何政治观点；确实，没有意见。因此他说‘你’被打败了，而不是‘我们’。

Sir Leicester is majestically wroth. Volumnia never heard of such a thing. ‘The debilitated cousin holds that it’s sort of thing that’s sure tapn slongs votes—giv’n—Mob.
莱斯特爵士勃然大怒。沃伦尼亚从来没有听说过这样的事情。 “这位虚弱的表弟认为，这是一种肯定会赢得选票的事情——给予——暴民。”

‘It’s the place, you know,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn goes on to say in the fast-increasing darkness when there is silence again, ‘where they wanted to put up Mrs. Rouncewell’s son.’
“你知道，这就是地方，”塔尔金霍恩先生在夜色快速加深、再次陷入寂静时继续说道，“他们想把朗斯韦尔夫人的儿子安置在那里。”

‘A proposal which, as you correctly informed me at the time, he had the becoming taste and perception,’ observes Sir Leicester, ‘to decline. I cannot say that I by any means approve of the sentiments expressed by Mr. Rouncewell when he was here for some half-hour in this room, but there was a sense of propriety in his decision which I am glad to acknowledge.’
“正如你当时正确告诉我的那样，他有适当的品味和洞察力，”莱斯特爵士说，“拒绝了这个提议。”我不能说我无论如何都赞同朗斯韦尔先生在这个房间里呆了半个小时时所表达的观点，但我很高兴承认他的决定有一种得体的感觉。

‘Ha!’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn. ‘It did not prevent him from being very active in this election, though.’
“哈！”图金霍恩先生说道。 “不过，这并没有阻止他在这次选举中非常活跃。”

Sir Leicester is distinctly heard to gasp before speaking. ‘Did I understand you? Did you say that Mr. Rouncewell had been very active in this election?’
明显可以听到莱斯特爵士在讲话前喘息着。 ‘我听懂你的话了吗？你是说朗斯韦尔先生在这次选举中非常积极吗？

‘Uncommonly active.’
“异常活跃。”

‘Against—‘
'反对-'

‘Oh, dear yes, against you. He is a very good speaker. Plain and emphatic. He made a damaging effect, and has great influence. In the business part of the proceedings he carried all before him.’
‘哦，亲爱的，是的，反对你。他是一位非常好的演讲家。平实而有力。他造成了破坏性的影响，影响很大。在诉讼程序的商业部分，他把一切都摆在了面前。

It is evident to the whole company, though nobody can see him, that Sir Leicester is staring majestically.
尽管没有人能看到莱斯特爵士，但整个公司的人都清楚地看到他正在凝视着他。

‘And he was much assisted,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn as a wind-up, ‘by his son.’
“他得到了他儿子的大力帮助，”图尔金霍恩先生总结道。

‘By his son, sir?’ repeats Sir Leicester with awful politeness.
“是他的儿子，先生？”莱斯特爵士极其礼貌地重复道。

‘By his son.’
“是他儿子的。”

‘The son who wished to marry the young woman in my Lady’s service?’
“那个想娶侍奉夫人的年轻女子的儿子？”

‘That son. He has but one.’
‘那个儿子。他只有一个。

‘Then upon my honour,’ says Sir Leicester after a terrific pause during which he has been heard to snort and felt to stare, ‘then upon my honour, upon my life, upon my reputation and principles, the floodgates of society are burst open, and the waters have—a— obliterated the landmarks of the framework of the cohesion by which things are held together!’
“那么，以我的名誉起誓，”莱斯特爵士在一阵可怕的停顿之后说道，在此期间，有人听到他在哼哼，并感觉到他在盯着我看，“那么，以我的名誉起誓，以我的生命起誓，以我的名誉和原则起誓，社会的大门突然打开了。” ，而水已经——a——抹去了事物结合在一起的凝聚力框架的地标！

General burst of cousinly indignation. Volumnia thinks it is really high time, you know, for somebody in power to step in and do something strong. Debilitated cousin thinks—country’s going— Dayvle—steeple-chase pace.
表弟一般爆发出愤怒。沃伦尼亚认为，现在正是有权力的人介入并采取强有力行动的时候了。虚弱的表弟认为——乡村正在前进——戴夫勒——障碍赛的步伐。

‘I beg,’ says Sir Leicester in a breathless condition, ‘that we may not comment further on this circumstance. Comment is superfluous. My Lady, let me suggest in reference to that young woman—‘
“我请求，”莱斯特爵士气喘吁吁地说，“我们不要对这种情况进一​​步发表评论。评论是多余的。夫人，让我就那位年轻女子提出建议——”

‘I have no intention,’ observes my Lady from her window in a low but decided tone, ‘of parting with her.’
“我无意与她分离，”我的夫人在窗外用低沉但坚定的语气说道。

‘That was not my meaning,’ returns Sir Leicester. ‘I am glad to hear you say so. I would suggest that as you think her worthy of your patronage, you should exert your influence to keep her from these dangerous hands. You might show her what violence would be done in such association to her duties and principles, and you might preserve her for a better fate. You might point out to her that she probably would, in good time, find a husband at Chesney Wold by whom she would not be—‘ Sir Leicester adds, after a moment’s consideration, ‘dragged from the altars of her forefathers.’
“那不是我的意思，”莱斯特爵士回答道。 ‘我很高兴听到你这么说。我建议，既然你认为她值得你的庇护，你就应该发挥你的影响力，让她远离这些危险的人。你可能会向她展示与她的职责和原则相关的暴力行为，并且你可能会保护她以获得更好的命运。你可能会向她指出，她很可能会在适当的时候在切斯尼沃尔德找到一个丈夫，而她不会被——”莱斯特爵士考虑了一下后补充道，“从她祖先的祭坛上拖下来。”

These remarks he offers with his unvarying politeness and deference when he addresses himself to his wife. She merely moves her head in reply. The moon is rising, and where she sits there is a little stream of cold pale light, in which her head is seen.
当他向妻子讲话时，他始终保持礼貌和尊重，说出这些话。她只是点头回应。月亮正在升起，她坐的地方有一小束冷淡的光，从中可以看到她的头。

‘It is worthy of remark,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, ‘however, that these people are, in their way, very proud.’
“值得注意的是，”图尔金霍恩先生说，“不过，这些人以他们的方式感到非常自豪。”

‘Proud?’ Sir Leicester doubts his hearing.
“骄傲？”莱斯特爵士怀疑自己的听力。

‘I should not be surprised if they all voluntarily abandoned the girl—yes, lover and all—instead of her abandoning them, supposing she remained at Chesney Wold under such circumstances.’
“如果他们都自愿抛弃了这个女孩——是的，她的爱人和所有人——而不是她抛弃了他们，假设她在这种情况下留在切斯尼沃尔德，我不会感到惊讶。”

‘Well!’ says Sir Leicester tremulously. ‘Well! You should know, Mr. Tulkinghorn. You have been among them.’
“好吧！”莱斯特爵士颤抖着说道。 '出色地！你应该知道，图金霍恩先生。你就是其中之一。

‘Really, Sir Leicester,’ returns the lawyer, ‘I state the fact. Why, I could tell you a story—with Lady Dedlock’s permission.’
“真的，莱斯特爵士，”律师回答道，“我陈述事实。”嘿，我可以给你讲一个故事——经过戴德洛克夫人的许可。

Her head concedes it, and Volumnia is enchanted. A story! Oh, he is going to tell something at last! A ghost in it, Volumnia hopes?
她的头脑承认了这一点，沃伦尼亚着迷了。一个故事！哦，他终于要说点什么了！沃伦尼亚希望里面有鬼魂？

‘No. Real flesh and blood.’ Mr. Tulkinghorn stops for an instant and repeats with some little emphasis grafted upon his usual monotony, ‘Real flesh and blood, Miss Dedlock. Sir Leicester, these particulars have only lately become known to me. They are very brief. They exemplify what I have said. I suppress names for the present. Lady Dedlock will not think me ill-bred, I hope?’
'不。真正的有血有肉的人。”图金霍恩先生停了下来，在他一贯的单调的基础上稍加强调地重复道：“真正的有血有肉的人，戴德洛克小姐。莱斯特爵士，我最近才知道这些细节。它们非常简短。他们举例说明了我所说的内容。我暂时隐瞒了名字。希望戴德洛克夫人不会认为我没有教养吧？

By the light of the fire, which is low, he can be seen looking towards the moonlight. By the light of the moon Lady Dedlock can be seen, perfecfly still.
借着微弱的火光，可以看到他正朝着月光看去。借着月光，可以看到戴德洛克夫人，一动不动。

‘A townsman of this Mrs. Rouncewell, a man in exactly parallel circumstances as I am told, had the good fortune to have a daughter who attracted the notice of a great lady. I speak of really a great lady, not merely great to him, but married to a gentleman of your condition, Sir Leicester.’
“朗斯韦尔夫人的一位同乡，据我所知，他的情况与我完全相似，他很幸运，有一个女儿，引起了一位伟大女士的注意。我说的是一位真正伟大的女士，不仅对他很伟大，而且嫁给了一位像您这样的绅士，莱斯特爵士。

Sir Leicester condescendingly says, ‘Yes, Mr. Tulkinghorn,’ implying that then she must have appeared of very considerable moral dimensions indeed in the eyes of an iron-master.
莱斯特爵士居高临下地说：“是的，图金霍恩先生。”这意味着，在一位钢铁大师的眼中，她一定具有非常高的道德标准。

‘The lady was wealthy and beautiful, and had a liking for the girl, and treated her with great kindness, and kept her always near her. Now this lady preserved a secret under all her greatness, which she had preserved for many years. In fact, she had in early life been engaged to marry a young rake—he was a captain in the army— nothing connected with whom came to any good. She never did marry him, but she gave birth to a child of which he was the father.’
这位女士富有又美丽，很喜欢这个女孩，对她非常友善，总是把她留在身边。现在，这位女士在她的伟大之下保守了一个秘密，这个秘密她已经保守了很多年。事实上，她早年曾与一个年轻的浪荡子订婚——他是一名陆军上尉——与谁没有任何关系。她从未嫁给他，但她生了一个孩子，他是孩子的父亲。

By the light of the fire he can be seen looking towards the moonlight. By the moonlight, Lady Dedlock can be seen in profile, perfectly still.
借着火光，可以看到他正朝着月光看去。月光下，可以看到戴德洛克夫人的侧影，一动不动。

‘The captain in the army being dead, she believed herself safe; but a train of circumstances with which I need not trouble you led to discovery. As I received the story, they began in an imprudence on her own part one day when she was taken by surprise, which shows how difficult it is for the firmest of us (she was very firm) to be always guarded. There was great domestic trouble and amazement, you may suppose; I leave you to imagine, Sir Leicester, the husband’s grief. But that is not the present point. When Mr. Rouncewell’s townsman heard of the disclosure, he no more allowed the girl to be patronized and honoured than he would have suffered her to be trodden underfoot before his eyes. Such was his pride, that he indignantly took her away, as if from reproach and disgrace. He had no sense of the honour done him and his daughter by the lady’s condescension; not the least. He resented the girl’s position, as if the lady had been the commonest of commoners. That is the story. I hope Lady Dedlock will excuse its painful nature.’
“军队的队长死了，她相信自己安全了；但我不必麻烦你，一系列的情况导致了你的发现。当我收到这个故事时，有一天，当她感到惊讶时，他们开始了她自己的轻率行为，这表明对于我们中最坚定的人（她非常坚定）来说，始终保持警惕是多么困难。你可能会认为，家里有很大的麻烦和惊奇；但事实却是这样。莱斯特爵士，我让你想象一下丈夫的悲伤。但这不是现在的重点。当朗斯韦尔先生的镇民听说此事后，他不允许这个女孩受到居高临下和尊敬，就像他不允许她在他眼前被践踏一样。他是如此的骄傲，以至于他愤怒地把她带走了，仿佛是出于责备和耻辱。他并没有意识到这位女士的居高临下给他和他的女儿带来了荣誉。并非最不重要的。他对这个女孩的地位很反感，就好像她是最普通的平民一样。这就是故事。我希望戴德洛克夫人能够原谅其痛苦的本质。

There are various opinions on the merits, more or less conflicting with Volumnia’s. That fair young creature cannot believe there ever was any such lady and rejects the whole history on the threshold. The majority incline to the debilitated cousin’s sentiment, which is in few words—‘no business—Rouncewell’s fernal townsman.’ Sir Leicester generally refers back in his mind to Wat Tyler and arranges a sequence of events on a plan of his own.
对于案情的是非曲直，存在着各种各样的观点，或多或少与沃伦尼亚的观点相冲突。那个美丽的年轻生物无法相信曾经有过这样的女士，并且拒绝接受整个历史。大多数人倾向于虚弱的表弟的情绪，简而言之——“没啥事——朗斯韦尔的热情镇民。”莱斯特爵士通常会在脑海中回想起瓦特·泰勒，并按照自己的计划安排一系列事件。

There is not much conversation in all, for late hours have been kept at Chesney Wold since the necessary expenses elsewhere began, and this is the first night in many on which the family have been alone. It is past ten when Sir Leicester begs Mr. Tulkinghorn to ring for candles. Then the stream of moonlight has swelled into a lake, and then Lady Dedlock for the first time moves, and rises, and comes forward to a table for a glass of water. Winking cousins, bat-like in the candle glare, crowd round to give it; Volumnia (always ready for something better if procurable) takes another, a very mild sip of which contents her; Lady Dedlock, graceful, self-possessed, looked after by admiring eyes, passes away slowly down the long perspective by the side of that nymph, not at all improving her as a question of contrast.
总的来说，没有太多的谈话，因为自从其他地方开始有必要的开支以来，切斯尼沃尔德就一直待到很晚，而这是许多人中家人独处的第一个晚上。十点多了，莱斯特爵士恳求图金霍恩先生按铃要蜡烛。然后月光的溪流涌入了一个湖，然后戴德洛克夫人第一次移动，站起来，走到一张桌子前喝了一杯水。堂兄弟们在烛光下像蝙蝠一样眨着眼睛，围过来送礼物；沃伦尼娅（如果可以的话，总是准备好喝点更好的东西）又喝了一口，非常温和地喝了一口，她感到很满足。戴德洛克夫人优雅、沉着，在众人羡慕的目光注视下，沿着长长的视角慢慢地在仙女身边逝去，与对比相比，她并没有得到任何改善。

CHAPTER XLI
第 XLI 章


In Mr. Tulkinghorn’s Room
在图金霍恩先生的房间里

Mr. Tulkinghorn arrives in his turret-room a little breathed by the journey up, though leisurely performed. There is an expression on his face as if he had discharged his mind of some grave matter and were, in his close way, satisfied. To say of a man so severely and strictly self-repressed that he is triumphant would be to do him as great an injustice as to suppose him troubled with love or sentiment or any romantic weakness. He is sedately satisfied. Perhaps there is a rather increased sense of power upon him as he loosely grasps one of his veinous wrists with his other hand and holding it behind his back walks noiselessly up and down.
图金霍恩先生抵达他的炮塔室时，尽管表现得很悠闲，但上山的旅程让他有点喘不过气来。他脸上的表情就好像他已经摆脱了一些严重的事情，并且以他近乎的方式感到满意。如果说一个如此严重、严格地自我压抑的人是胜利者，那就对他来说是一种极大的不公正，就像认为他受到爱情、情感或任何浪漫弱点的困扰一样。他心里很满足。也许当他用另一只手松松地抓住他青筋暴起的手腕，背在背后，无声地走来走去时，他身上的力量感反而增强了。

There is a capacious writing-table in the room on which is a pretty large accumulation of papers. The green lamp is lighted, his reading-glasses lie upon the desk, the easy-chair is wheeled up to it, and it would seem as though he had intended to bestow an hour or so upon these claims on his attention before going to bed. But he happens not to be in a business mind. After a glance at the documents awaiting his notice—with his head bent low over the table, the old man’s sight for print or writing being defective at night—he opens the French window and steps out upon the leads. There he again walks slowly up and down in the same attitude, subsiding, if a man so cool may have any need to subside, from the story he has related downstairs.
房间里有一张宽敞的写字台，上面堆放着相当多的文件。绿灯亮着，他的老花镜放在桌子上，安乐椅被推到桌前，看起来他打算在睡觉前花一个小时左右的时间来集中精力处理这些事情。 。但他恰好没有商业头脑。扫了一眼等待他注意的文件后——他把头低垂在桌子上，老人在晚上打印或书写的视力有缺陷——他打开落地窗，踏着线索走了出去。在那里，他又以同样的态度慢慢地走来走去，平静下来，如果一个如此冷静的人可能需要平静下来，从他在楼下讲述的故事来看。

The time was once when men as knowing as Mr. Tulkinghorn would walk on turret-tops in the starlight and look up into the sky to read their fortunes there. Hosts of stars are visible to-night, though their brilliancy is eclipsed by the splendour of the moon. If he be seeking his own star as he methodically turns and turns upon the leads, it should be but a pale one to be so rustily represented below. If he be tracing out his destiny, that may be written in other characters nearer to his hand.
曾经，像图尔金霍恩先生这样博学的人会在星光下走在塔顶上，仰望天空，在那里算命。今晚可以看到许多星星，尽管它们的光彩被月亮的光辉所掩盖。如果他在有条不紊地在导线上转来转去时正在寻找自己的星星，那么下面如此生锈地表现出来的那颗星星应该只是一颗苍白的星星。如果他要描绘自己的命运，那可能会写在离他更近的其他文字上。

As he paces the leads with his eyes most probably as high above his thoughts as they are high above the earth, he is suddenly stopped in passing the window by two eyes that meet his own. The ceiling of his room is rather low; and the upper part of the door, which is opposite the window, is of glass. There is an inner baize door, too, but the night being warm he did not close it when he came upstairs. These eyes that meet his own are looking in through the glass from the corridor outside. He knows them well. The blood has not flushed into his face so suddenly and redly for many a long year as when he recognizes Lady Dedlock.
当他在线索上踱步时，他的眼睛很可能高出他的思想，就像它们高出地球一样高，他在经过窗户时突然被两只与他自己相遇的眼睛拦住了。他房间的天花板相当低；与窗户相对的门的上部是玻璃的。里面也有一扇呢子门，但夜色暖和，他上楼时没有关门。这双眼睛与他的目光相遇，正从外面的走廊透过玻璃往里看。他很了解他们。多年来，他从未像认出戴德洛克夫人时那样突然、如此红润地冲上他的脸。

He steps into the room, and she comes in too, closing both the doors behind her. There is a wild disturbance—is it fear or anger?—in her eyes. In her carriage and all else she looks as she looked downstairs two hours ago.
他走进房间，她也进来，关上身后的门。她的眼中充满了疯狂的不安——是恐惧还是愤怒？她在马车里和其他所有东西上的样子都和两小时前楼下的样子一模一样。

Is it fear or is it anger now? He cannot be sure. Both might be as pale, both as intent.
现在是恐惧还是愤怒？他不能确定。两者可能都一样苍白，都一样专注。

‘Lady Dedlock?’
“德洛克女士？”

She does not speak at first, nor even when she has slowly dropped into the easy-chair by the table. They look at each other, like two pictures.
她一开始没有说话，甚至当她慢慢地坐到桌边的安乐椅上时也没有说话。他们四目相对，就像两张照片。

‘Why have you told my story to so many persons?’
“你为什么要向这么多人讲述我的故事？”

‘Lady Dedlock, it was necessary for me to inform you that I knew it.’
“戴德洛克女士，我有必要告诉你我知道这一点。”

‘How long have you known it?’
“你知道这件事多久了？”

‘I have suspected it a long while—fully known it a little while.’
“我怀疑它已经有一段时间了——完全了解它也有一段时间了。”

‘Months?’
“几个月？”

‘Days.’
'天。'

He stands before her with one hand on a chair-back and the other in his old-fashioned waistcoat and shirt-frill, exactly as he has stood before her at any time since her marriage. The same formal politeness, the same composed deference that might as well be defiance; the whole man the same dark, cold object, at the same distance, which nothing has ever diminished.
他站在她面前，一只手放在椅背上，另一只手穿着老式背心和衬衫褶边，就像她结婚以来他一直站在她面前一样。同样的正式礼貌，同样的沉着的尊重，也可能是蔑视；同样的礼貌。整个人都是同一个黑暗、冰冷的物体，在同样的距离上，没有任何东西可以减弱。

‘Is this true concerning the poor girl?’
“关于那个可怜的女孩，这是真的吗？”

He slightly inclines and advances his head as not quite understanding the question.
他微微侧过头，似乎不太明白这个问题。

‘You know what you related. Is it true? Do her friends know my story also? Is it the town-talk yet? Is it chalked upon the walls and cried in the streets?’
‘你知道你所涉及的是什么。这是真的吗？她的朋友们也知道我的故事吗？这是镇上的谈话吗？它是否用粉笔写在墙上并在街上哭泣？

So! Anger, and fear, and shame. All three contending. What power this woman has to keep these raging passions down! Mr. Tulkinghorn’s thoughts take such form as he looks at her, with his ragged grey eyebrows a hair’s breadth more contracted than usual under her gaze.
所以！愤怒、恐惧、羞耻。三者皆相争。这个女人到底有多大的力量才能压制住这些汹涌的激情！当图金霍恩先生看着她时，他的思绪就这样形成了，他那参差不齐的灰色眉毛在她的注视下比平时收缩了一根头发丝的宽度。

‘No, Lady Dedlock. That was a hypothetical case, arising out of Sir Leicester’s unconsciously carrying the matter with so high a hand. But it would be a real case if they knew—what we know.’
“不，德洛克夫人。这是一个假设的案例，源于莱斯特爵士无意识地对此事采取了如此高的态度。但如果他们知道——我们所知道的，这将是一个真实的案例。

‘Then they do not know it yet?’
“那么他们还不知道吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Can I save the poor girl from injury before they know it?’
“我能在他们意识到之前拯救这个可怜的女孩免遭伤害吗？”

‘Really, Lady Dedlock,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn replies, ‘I cannot give a satisfactory opinion on that point.’
“说实话，戴德洛克夫人，”图金霍恩先生回答道，“在这一点上我无法给出令人满意的意见。”

And he thinks, with the interest of attentive curiosity, as he watches the struggle in her breast, ‘The power and force of this woman are astonishing!’
当他注视着她胸中的挣扎时，他带着好奇心想，“这个女人的力量和力量是惊人的！”

‘Sir,’ she says, for the moment obliged to set her lips with all the energy she has, that she may speak distinctly, ‘I will make it plainer. I do not dispute your hypothetical case. I anticipated it, and felt its truth as strongly as you can do, when I saw Mr. Rouncewell here. I knew very well that if he could have had the power of seeing me as I was, he would consider the poor girl tarnished by having for a moment been, although most innocently, the subject of my great and distinguished patronage. But I have an interest in her, or I should rather say—no longer belonging to this place—I had, and if you can find so much consideration for the woman under your foot as to remember that, she will be very sensible of your mercy.’
“先生，”她说道，此时她不得不用尽全力抿紧嘴唇，以便能够清晰地说话，“我会把它说得更清楚。”我对你的假设案例没有异议。当我在这里看到朗斯韦尔先生时，我就预料到了这一点，并尽可能强烈地感受到了它的真实性。我非常清楚，如果他能够看到我本来的面目，他就会认为这个可怜的女孩曾一度受到我伟大而尊贵的赞助，虽然是天真无邪的，但却玷污了她的形象。但我对她有兴趣，或者我更应该说——不再属于这个地方——我有兴趣，如果你能对你脚下的女人如此体贴，记住这一点，她就会非常明白你的意思。怜悯。'

Mr. Tulkinghorn, profoundly attentive, throws this off with a shrug of self-depreciation and contracts his eyebrows a little more.
图金霍恩先生非常专注，他自嘲地耸耸肩，把这件事抛之脑后，眉毛又皱得更紧了。

‘You have prepared me for my exposure, and I thank you for that too. Is there anything that you require of me? Is there any claim that I can release or any charge or trouble that I can spare my husband in obtaining HIS release by certifying to the exactness of your discovery? I will write anything, here and now, that you will dictate. I am ready to do it.’
“你让我为曝光做好了准备，我也为此感谢你。你对我有什么要求吗？是否有任何我可以释放的主张，或者通过证明您的发现的准确性，我可以免除我丈夫在获得释放时受到的任何指控或麻烦？我会在此时此地写下您所指定的任何内容。我已经准备好这么做了。

And she would do it, thinks the lawver, watchful of the firm hand with which she takes the pen!
她会这么做的，律师想，并注意她握笔的坚定手！

‘I will not trouble you, Lady Dedlock. Pray spare yourself.’
“我不会麻烦你的，戴德洛克女士。祈祷饶命吧。

‘I have long expected this, as you know. I neither wish to spare myself nor to be spared. You can do nothing worse to me than you have done. Do what remains now.’
“正如你所知，我早就预料到了这一点。我既不想饶过自己，也不想被饶恕。你对我所做的事，没有比你所做的更糟糕的了。做现在剩下的事。

‘Lady Dedlock, there is nothing to be done. I will take leave to say a few words when you have finished.’
“戴德洛克女士，没有什么可做的。当你说完之后我就请假说几句话。

Their need for watching one another should be over now, but they do it all this time, and the stars watch them both through the opened window. Away in the moonlight lie the woodland fields at rest, and the wide house is as quiet as the narrow one. The narrow one! Where are the digger and the spade, this peaceful night, destined to add the last great secret to the many secrets of the Tulkinghorn existence? Is the man born yet, is the spade wrought yet? Curious questions to consider, more curious perhaps not to consider, under the watching stars upon a summer night.
他们互相注视的需要现在应该结束了，但他们一直这样做，星星透过打开的窗户注视着他们。月光下，远处的林地静静地躺着，宽阔的房子和狭窄的房子一样安静。窄的那种！在这个宁静的夜晚，注定要为图金霍恩存在的众多秘密增添最后一个伟大秘密的挖掘机和铁锹在哪里？人已经出生了吗，铁锹已经炼成了吗？在夏夜的星空下，需要考虑一些奇怪的问题，更奇怪的问题也许不应该考虑。

‘Of repentance or remorse or any feeling of mine,’ Lady Dedlock presently proceeds, ‘I say not a word. If I were not dumb, you would be deaf. Let that go by. It is not for your ears.’
“无论是悔恨、悔恨还是我的任何感觉，”戴德洛克夫人接着说道，“我什么也没说。如果我不傻，你就聋了。就这样过去吧。这不适合你的耳朵。

He makes a feint of offering a protest, but she sweeps it away with her disdainful hand.
他假装提出抗议，但她轻蔑地用一只手将其扫掉。

‘Of other and very different things I come to speak to you. My jewels are all in their proper places of keeping. They will be found there. So, my dresses. So, all the valuables I have. Some ready money I had with me, please to say, but no large amount. I did not wear my own dress, in order that I might avoid observation. I went to be henceforward lost. Make this known. I leave no other charge with you.’
“我来是要和你谈谈其他非常不同的事情。我的珠宝都在适当的地方。他们会在那里被发现。所以，我的衣服。所以，我拥有的所有贵重物品。请说一下，我身上有一些现钱，但数额不大。我没有穿自己的衣服，以免被人看见。我从此迷失了。让大家知道这一点。我没有给你留下任何其他费用。

‘Excuse me, Lady Dedlock,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, quite unmoved. ‘I am not sure that I understand you. You want—‘
“对不起，戴德洛克夫人，”图金霍恩先生说道，一动不动。 ‘我不确定我是否理解你。你要-'

‘To be lost to all here. I leave Chesney Wold to-night. I go this hour.’
‘这里的所有人都迷失了。我今晚离开切斯尼沃尔德。我这个时间就去。

Mr. Tulkinghorn shakes his head. She rises, but he, without moving hand from chair-back or from old-fashioned waistcoat and shirtfrill, shakes his head.
图金霍恩先生摇摇头。她站了起来，但他的手没有从椅背上或老式背心和衬衣褶边上移开，只是摇了摇头。

‘What? Not go as I have said?’
'什么？不按照我说的去吗？

‘No, Lady Dedlock,’ he very calmly replies.
“不，戴德洛克女士，”他非常平静地回答。

‘Do you know the relief that my disappearance will be? Have you forgotten the stain and blot upon this place, and where it is, and who it is?’
‘你知道我的失踪会让你松一口气吗？你忘记了这个地方的污点和污点、它在哪里、它是谁吗？

‘No, Lady Dedlock, not by any means.’
“不，戴德洛克女士，无论如何都不会。”

Without deigning to rejoin, she moves to the inner door and has it in her hand when he says to her, without himself stirring hand or foot or raising his voice, ‘Lady Dedlock, have the goodness to stop and hear me, or before you reach the staircase I shall ring the alarm-bell and rouse the house. And then I must speak out before every guest and servant, every man and woman, in it.’
她没有屈尊再加入，而是走到内门，把门拿在手里，当他对她说时，他自己没有动动手脚，也没有提高声音，“戴德洛克女士，请停下来听我说，或者在你面前”到达楼梯后，我将敲响警铃，唤醒全屋。然后我必须在里面的每一位客人和仆人、每一个男人和女人面前大声说话。

He has conquered her. She falters, trembles, and puts her hand confusedly to her head. Slight tokens these in any one else, but when so practised an eye as Mr. Tulkinghorn’s sees indecision for a moment in such a subject, he thoroughly knows its value.
他已经征服了她。她摇摇欲坠、颤抖着，困惑地把手放在头上。这些在任何其他人身上都微不足道，但当图尔金霍恩先生的眼睛如此熟练，在这样的主题上看到片刻的犹豫不决时，他就完全知道它的价值。

He promptly says again, ‘Have the goodness to hear me, Lady Dedlock,’ and motions to the chair from which she has risen. She hesitates, but he motions again, and she sits down.
他立即再次说道：“请听我说，戴德洛克女士，”然后指着她站起来的椅子。她犹豫了一下，但他再次示意，她坐下了。

‘The relations between us are of an unfortunate description, Lady Dedlock; but as they are not of my making, I will not apologize for them. The position I hold in reference to Sir Leicester is so well known to you that I can hardly imagine but that I must long have appeared in your eyes the natural person to make this discovery.’
“我们之间的关系很不幸，戴德洛克夫人；但由于它们不是我造成的，我不会为它们道歉。我对莱斯特爵士的立场对你来说是众所周知的，我几乎无法想象，但我一定很早就在你眼中成为了做出这一发现的自然人。

‘Sir,’ she returns without looking up from the ground on which her eyes are now fixed, ‘I had better have gone. It would have been far better not to have detained me. I have no more to say.’
“先生，”她头也不抬地回答道，“我最好还是走了。”如果不拘留我的话会好得多。我没什么可说的了。

‘Excuse me, Lady Dedlock, if I add a little more to hear.’
“对不起，戴德洛克女士，我想再补充一点。”

‘I wish to hear it at the window, then. I can’t breathe where I am.’
“那我希望在窗边听到它。”我在哪里无法呼吸。

His jealous glance as she walks that way betrays an instant’s misgiving that she may have it in her thoughts to leap over, and dashing against ledge and cornice, strike her life out upon the terrace below. But a moment’s observation of her figure as she stands in the window without any support, looking out at the stars —not up-gloomily out at those stars which are low in the heavens, reassures him. By facing round as she has moved, he stands a little behind her.
当她朝那条路走去时，他嫉妒的目光暴露了她一瞬间的疑虑，担心她可能会想跳过去，冲向窗台和檐口，在下面的露台上丧命。但是，当她没有任何支撑地站在窗前，看着外面的星星——而不是阴沉地看着那些低空的星星时，他观察了一会儿她的身影，这让他放心了。当她移动时，他转过身来，站在她身后不远的地方。

‘Lady Dedlock, I have not yet been able to come to a decision satisfactory to myself on the course before me. I am not clear what to do or how to act next. I must request you, in the meantime, to keep your secret as you have kept it so long and not to wonder that I keep it too.’
“戴德洛克女士，在我面前的课程中，我还没有能够做出令自己满意的决定。我不清楚下一步该做什么或如何行动。与此同时，我必须要求你保守你的秘密，就像你保守了这么久一样，不要奇怪我也保守了它。

He pauses, but she makes no reply.
他停顿了一下，但她没有回答。

‘Pardon me, Lady Dedlock. This is an important subject. You are honouring me with your attention?’
“请原谅，戴德洛克女士。这是一个重要的课题。你的关注是在尊重我吗？

‘I am.’
'我是。'

‘‘Thank you. I might have known it from what I have seen of your strength of character. I ought not to have asked the question, but I have the habit of making sure of my ground, step by step, as I go on. The sole consideration in this unhappy case is Sir Leicester.’
''谢谢。从我所看到的你的坚强性格中我可能已经知道了这一点。我不应该问这个问题，但我有一个习惯，就是在继续说下去时，一步一步地确定自己的立场。在这起不幸的案件中，唯一要考虑的是莱斯特爵士。

‘‘Then why,’ she asks in a low voice and without removing her gloomy look from those distant stars, ‘do you detain me in his house?’
“那你为什么把我困在他家里？”她低声问道，脸上的阴郁神色没有从那些遥远的星星上移开。

‘Because he IS the consideration. Lady Dedlock, I have no occasion to tell you that Sir Leicester is a very proud man, that his reliance upon you is implicit, that the fall of that moon out of the sky would not amaze him more than your fall from your high position as his wife.’
‘因为他就是考虑因素。戴德洛克夫人，我没有机会告诉你，莱斯特爵士是一个非常骄傲的人，他对你的依赖是含蓄的，那颗月亮从天上掉下来不会比你从高位上摔下来更令他惊讶。他的老婆。'

She breathes quickly and heavily, but she stands as unflinchingly as ever he has seen her in the midst of her grandest company.
她呼吸急促而粗重，但她一如既往地坚定地站在她最盛大的公司之中。

‘I declare to you, Lady Dedlock, that with anything short of this case that I have, I would as soon have hoped to root up by means of my own strength and my own hands the oldest tree on this estate as to shake your hold upon Sir Leicester and Sir Leicester’s trust and confidence in you. And even now, with this case, I hesitate. Not that he could doubt (that, even with him, is impossible), but that nothing can prepare him for the blow.’
“我向你声明，戴德洛克夫人，如果我没有这个案子，我真希望能够凭借自己的力量和双手连根拔起这座庄园里最古老的树，以摆脱你的控制。”基于莱斯特爵士和莱斯特爵士对你的信任和信心。即使现在，面对这个案子，我仍然犹豫不决。并不是说他可以怀疑（即使对他来说，这也是不可能的），而是说没有什么能让他为这一打击做好准备。

‘Not my flight?’ she returned. ‘Think of it again.’
“这不是我的航班？”她回答道。 “再想一想。”

‘Your flight, Lady Dedlock, would spread the whole truth, and a hundred times the whole truth, far and wide. It would be impossible to save the family credit for a day. It is not to be thought of.’
“戴德洛克夫人，你的逃亡将会把全部真相传播出去，而且是把全部真相传播一百倍。”家族信用想要挽回一天是不可能的。这是不应该考虑的。

There is a quiet decision in his reply which admits of no remonstrance.
他的答复中有一个平静的决定，没有任何异议。

‘When I speak of Sir Leicester being the sole consideration, he and the family credit are one. Sir Leicester and the baronetcy, Sir Leicester and Chesney Wold, Sir Leicester and his ancestors and his patrimony’—Mr. Tulkinghorn very dry here—‘are, I need not say to you, Lady Dedlock, inseparable.’
“当我说莱斯特爵士是唯一的考虑因素时，他和家族的功劳是其中之一。莱斯特爵士和男爵夫人，莱斯特爵士和切斯尼沃尔德，莱斯特爵士和他的祖先和他的遗产”——莱斯特先生。图金霍恩这里非常干燥——“戴德洛克夫人，我不用对你说，这里是密不可分的。”

‘Go on!’
'继续！'

‘Therefore,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, pursuing his case in his jogtrot style, ‘I have much to consider. This is to be hushed up if it can be. How can it be, if Sir Leicester is driven out of his wits or laid upon a death-bed? If I inflicted this shock upon him to-morrow morning, how could the immediate change in him be accounted for? What could have caused it? What could have divided you? Lady Dedlock, the wall-chalking and the street-crying would come on directly, and you are to remember that it would not affect you merely (whom I cannot at all consider in this business) but your husband, Lady Dedlock, your husband.’
“因此，”图尔金霍恩先生以慢跑的方式处理他的案件，“我有很多事情需要考虑。”如果可以的话，这件事应该保密。如果莱斯特爵士失去理智或躺在床上，那怎么可能呢？如果我明天早上对他造成这种震惊，如何解释他立即发生的变化？什么可能导致它？是什么让你们分裂了？戴德洛克夫人，粉笔画墙和街头哭泣会直接发生，你要记住，这不仅会影响你（在这件事上我完全不能考虑到你），还会影响你的丈夫，戴德洛克夫人，你的丈夫。 '

He gets plainer as he gets on, but not an atom more emphatic or animated.
随着讲的深入，他变得更加平淡，但并没有变得更加强调或活跃。

‘There is another point of view,’ he continues, ‘in which the case presents itself. Sir Leicester is devoted to you almost to infatuation. He might not be able to overcome that infatuation, even knowing what we know. I am putting an extreme case, but it might be so. If so, it were better that he knew nothing. Better for common sense, better for him, better for me. I must take all this into account, and it combines to render a decision very difficult.’
“还有另一种观点，”他继续说道，“这个案子本身就存在。”莱斯特爵士对你几乎近乎痴迷。即使他知道我们所知道的，他也可能无法克服这种迷恋。我举的是一个极端的例子，但也有可能是这样。如果是这样，他还不如什么都不知道。对常识更好，对他更好，对我更好。我必须考虑到所有这些因素，综合起来使做出决定变得非常困难。”

She stands looking out at the same stars without a word. They are beginning to pale, and she looks as if their coldness froze her.
她站着，望着同样的星星，一言不发。他们的脸色开始变得苍白，她看上去仿佛被他们的寒冷冻住了。

‘My experience teaches me,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, who has by this time got his hands in his pockets and is going on in his business consideration of the matter like a machine. ‘My experience teaches me, Lady Dedlock, that most of the people I know would do far better to leave marriage alone. It is at the bottom of three fourths of their troubles. So I thought when Sir Leicester married, and so I always have thought since. No more about that. I must now be guided by circumstances. In the meanwhile I must beg you to keep your own counsel, and I will keep mine.’
“我的经验告诉我，”图尔金霍恩先生说，此时他已经把手插在口袋里，像一台机器一样继续对此事进行商业考虑。 “戴德洛克夫人，我的经验告诉我，我认识的大多数人最好还是不要结婚。这是他们四分之三的麻烦的根源。当莱斯特爵士结婚时我就是这么想的，从那以后我一直这么想。不再谈论这个了。我现在必须以环境为指导。与此同时，我必须请求你保留自己的建议，我也会保留我的建议。

‘I am to drag my present life on, holding its pains at your pleasure, day by day?’ she asks, still looking at the distant sky.
“我要继续我现在的生活，日复一日地忍受痛苦吗？”她问道，仍然望着远方的天空。

‘Yes, I am afraid so, Lady Dedlock.’
“是的，恐怕是这样，戴德洛克夫人。”

‘It is necessary, you think, that I should be so tied to the stake?’
“你认为我有必要被绑在木桩上吗？”

‘I am sure that what I recommend is necessary.’
“我确信我的建议是必要的。”

‘I am to remain on this gaudy platforna on which my miserable deception has been so long acted, and it is to fall beneath me when you give the signal?’ she said slowly.
“我要留在这个华而不实的平台上，我的悲惨欺骗已经在这个平台上进行了这么长时间，当你发出信号时，它就会落在我的下面吗？”她慢慢地说。

‘Not without notice, Lady Dedlock. I shall take no step without forewarning you.’
“并非没有通知，戴德洛克夫人。没有事先警告你，我不会采取任何行动。

She asks all her questions as if she were repeating them from memory or calling them over in her sleep.
她问所有的问题就好像她凭记忆重复这些问题或在睡梦中呼唤它们一样。

‘We are to meet as usual?’
“我们要像往常一样见面吗？”

‘Precisely as usual, if you please.’
“如果你愿意的话，就和平常一样。”

‘And I am to hide my guilt, as I have done so many years?’
“我要隐藏我的罪孽，就像我多年来所做的那样？”

‘As you have done so many years. I should not have made that reference myself, Lady Dedlock, but I may now remind you that your secret can be no heavier to you than it was, and is no worse and no better than it was. I know it certainly, but I believe we have never wholly trusted each other.’
‘正如你多年来所做的那样。我自己不应该提到这一点，戴德洛克夫人，但我现在可以提醒你，你的秘密对你来说不会比以前更重，也不会比以前更糟，也不会更好。我当然知道，但我相信我们从未完全信任彼此。

She stands absorbed in the same frozen way for some little time before asking, ‘Is there anything more to be sald to-night?’
她以同样冰冷的方式全神贯注地站了一会儿，然后问道：“今晚还有什么可吃的吗？”

‘Why,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn returns methodically as he softly rubs his hands, ‘I should like to be assured of your acquiescence in my arrangements, Lady Dedlock.’
“为什么，”图尔金霍恩先生轻柔地搓着双手，有条不紊地回答道，“戴德洛克夫人，我想向您保证，您会默许我的安排。”

‘You may be assured of it.’
“你可以放心。”

‘Good. And I would wish in conclusion to remind you, as a business precaution, in case it should be necessary to recall the fact in any communication with Sir Leicester, that throughout our interview I have expressly stated my sole consideration to be Sir Leicester’s feelings and honour and the family reputation. I should have been happy to have made Lady Dedlock a prominent consideration, too, if the case had admitted of it; but unfortunately it does not.’
'好的。最后，我想提醒您，作为商业预防措施，以防有必要在与莱斯特爵士的任何沟通中回忆起这一事实，在我们的采访中，我已明确表示我唯一考虑的是莱斯特爵士的感情和荣誉以及家族的声誉。如果案件承认了这一点，我也会很高兴把戴德洛克夫人作为一个重要的考虑因素。但不幸的是事实并非如此。

‘I can attest your fidelity, sir.’
“我可以证明你的忠诚，先生。”

Both before and after saving it she remains absorbed, but at length moves, and turns, unshaken in her natural and acquired presence, towards the door. Mr. Tulkinghorn opens both the doors exactly as he would have done yesterday, or as he would have done ten years ago, and makes his old-fashioned bow as she passes out. It is not an ordinary look that he receives from the handsome face as it goes into the darkness, and it is not an ordinary movement, though a very slight one, that acknowledges his courtesy. But as he reflects when he is left alone, the woman has been putting no common constraint upon herself.
在保存它之前和之后，她仍然全神贯注，但最终移动并转身，在她自然和后天的存在中没有动摇，走向门口。图金霍恩先生打开了两扇门，就像他昨天或十年前会做的那样，并在她昏倒时以老式的方式鞠了一躬。当那张英俊的脸消失在黑暗中时，他所看到的不是一个普通的眼神，也不是一个普通的动作，虽然是一个非常轻微的动作，但它表明了他的礼貌。但当他独自一人时，他反思道，这个女人并没有对自己施加任何常见的约束。

He would know it all the better if he saw the woman pacing her own rooms with her hair wildly thrown from her flung-back face, her hands clasped behind her head, her figure twisted as if by pain. He would think so all the more if he saw the woman thus hurrying up and down for hours, without fatigue, without intermission, followed by the faithful step upon the Ghost’s Walk. But he shuts out the now chilled air, draws the window-curtain, goes to bed, and falls asleep. And truly when the stars go out and the wan day peeps into the turret-chamber, finding him at his oldest, he looks as if the digger and the spade were both commissioned and would soon be digging.
如果他看到那个女人在自己的房间里踱来踱去，头发从后仰的脸上乱糟糟地散开，双手抱在脑后，身体仿佛因疼痛而扭曲，他会更清楚这一点。如果他看到这个女人就这样匆忙地走来走去几个小时，没有疲劳，没有间断，然后忠实地踏上鬼道，他会更这么想。但他把寒冷的空气拒之门外，拉上窗帘，上床睡觉。确实，当星星熄灭，苍白的白天窥视炮塔室，发现他年纪最大时，他看起来好像挖掘机和铁锹都已投入使用，很快就会开始挖掘。

The same wan day peeps in at Sir Leicester pardoning the repentant country in a majestically condescending dream; and at the cousins entering on various public employments, principally receipt of salary; and at the chaste Volumnia, bestowing a dower of fifty thousand pounds upon a hideous old general with a mouth of false teeth like a pianoforte too full of keys, long the admiration of Bath and the terror of every other commuuity. Also into rooms high in the roof, and into offices in court-yards, and over stables, where humbler ambition dreams of bliss, in keepers’ lodges, and in holy matrimony with Will or Sally. Up comes the bright sun, drawing everything up with it—the Wills and Sallys, the latent vapour in the earth, the drooping leaves and flowers, the birds and beasts and creeping things, the gardeners to sweep the dewy turf and unfold emerald velvet where the roller passes, the smoke of the great kitchen fire wreathing itself straight and high into the lightsome air. Lastly, up comes the flag over Mr. Tulkinghorn’s unconscious head cheerfully proclaiming that Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock are in their happy home and that there is hospitality at the place in Lincolnshire.
同一天，莱斯特爵士在一个庄严的居高临下的梦中赦免了这个悔改的国家。以及表兄弟姐妹从事各种公共工作，主要是领取工资；在贞洁的沃伦尼亚，向一位面目狰狞的老将军赠送了五万英镑的嫁妆，他的嘴里装满了假牙，就像一架装满琴键的钢琴，长期以来引起巴斯的钦佩和其他社区的恐惧。还可以进入屋顶高处的房间，进入庭院的办公室，进入马厩，在那里，卑微的野心梦想着幸福，在看守人的小屋，以及与威尔或莎莉的神圣婚姻。明媚的太阳升起，把一切都卷了起来——意志和莎莉，大地潜藏的水汽，下垂的树叶和花朵，鸟兽和爬行动物，园丁们清扫露水的草皮，展开翠绿的天鹅绒，滚轮经过，厨房大火的烟雾直直地盘旋在轻盈的空气中。最后，图金霍恩先生昏迷不醒的头上升起了旗帜，高兴地宣布莱斯特爵士和戴德洛克夫人在他们幸福的家中，林肯郡的这个地方热情好客。

CHAPTER XLII
第四十二章


In Mr. Tulkinghorn’s Chambers
在图金霍恩先生的房间里

From the verdant undulations and the spreading oaks of the Dedlock property, Mr. Tulkinghorn transfers himself to the stale heat and dust of London. His manner of coming and going between the two places is one of his impenetrabilities. He walks into Chesney Wold as if it were next door to his chambers and returns to his chambers as if he had never been out of Lincoln’s Inn Fields. He neither changes his dress before the journey nor talks of it afterwards. He melted out of his turret-room this morning, just as now, in the late twilight, he melts into his own square.
从戴德洛克庄园翠绿的起伏和蔓延的橡树，图金霍恩先生将自己转移到了伦敦的闷热和尘土中。他在两地之间来来往往的方式是他难以捉摸的地方之一。他走进切斯尼沃尔德，就好像它就在他的房间隔壁一样，然后回到他的房间，就好像他从未离开过林肯的客栈场一样。他在旅途前既不换衣服，也不在旅途后谈论这件事。今天早上，他从自己的炮塔房间里消失了，就像现在，在暮色中，他融入了自己的广场一样。

Like a dingy London bird among the birds at roost in these pleasant fields, where the sheep are all made into parchment, the goats into wigs, and the pasture into chaff, the lawyer, smoke-dried and faded, dwelling among mankind but not consorting with them, aged without experience of genial youth, and so long used to make his cramped nest in holes and corners of human nature that he has forgotten its broader and better range, comes sauntering home. In the oven made by the hot pavements and hot buildings, he has baked himself dryer than usual; and he has in his thirsty mind his mellowed port-wine half a century old.
就像一只肮脏的伦敦鸟栖息在这些宜人的田野里，那里的绵羊都被做成了羊皮纸，山羊被做成了假发，牧场变成了糠秕，律师，被烟熏干了，褪色了，住在人类中间，但不与人交往与他们一起，年老的人没有经历过和蔼的青年时代，长期习惯于在人性的洞穴和角落里筑巢，以至于忘记了人性的更广阔和更好的范围，漫步回家。在炎热的人行道和炎热的建筑物组成的烤箱里，他把自己烤得比平常更干燥；他口渴的脑海里还藏着半个世纪的醇厚波特酒。

The lamplighter is skipping up and down his ladder on Mr. Tulkinghorn’s side of the Fields when that high-priest of noble mysteries arrives at his own dull court-yard. He ascends the doorsteps and is gliding into the dusky hall when he encounters, on the top step, a bowing and propitiatory little man.
当这位高贵神秘的大祭司来到他自己沉闷的庭院时，点灯人正在田野里图金霍恩先生这边的梯子上跳来跳去。他走上门阶，滑进昏暗的大厅，这时他在最上面的台阶上遇到了一个鞠躬、表示和解的小个子男人。

‘Is that Snagsby?’
“那是斯纳斯比吗？”

‘Yes, sir. I hope you are well, sir. I was just giving you up, sir, and going home.’
'是的先生。我希望你一切都好，先生。我只是想放弃你，先生，然后回家。”

‘Aye? What is it? What do you want with me?’
‘是吗？它是什么？你想和我做什么？'

‘Well, sir,’ says Mr. Snagsby, holding his hat at the side of his head in his deference towards his best customer, ‘I was wishful to say a word to you, sir.’
“好吧，先生，”斯纳斯比先生将帽子举在头侧，以示对他最好的顾客的尊重，“我很想对您说句话，先生。”

‘Can you say it here?’
“你能在这里说吗？”

‘Perfectly, sir.’
“完美，先生。”

‘Say it then.’ The lawyer turns, leans his arms on the iron railing at the top of the steps, and looks at the lamplighter lighting the court-yard.
“那就说吧。”律师转过身来，双臂靠在台阶顶端的铁栏杆上，看着照亮庭院的点灯者。

‘It is relating,’ says Mr. Snagsby in a mysterious low voice, ‘it is relating—not to put too fine a point upon it—to the foreigner, sir!’
“这是有关联的，”斯纳斯比先生用一种神秘的低沉声音说道，“这是有关联的——不要说得太过分——与外国人有关，先生！”

Mr. Tulkinghorn eyes him with some surprise. ‘What foreigner?’
图金霍恩先生有些惊讶地看着他。 “什么外国人？”

‘The foreign female, sir. French, if I don’t mistake? I am not acquainted with that language myself, but I should judge from her manners and appearance that she was French; anyways, certainly foreign. Her that was upstairs, sir, when Mr. Bucket and me had the honour of waiting upon you with the sweeping-boy that night.’
“这位外国女性，先生。法语，如果我没记错的话？我自己并不熟悉那种语言，但从她的举止和外表来看，我应该判断她是法国人。无论如何，肯定是外国的。先生，那天晚上我和巴克特先生有幸和扫地工一起侍候您时，她就在楼上。”

‘Oh! Yes, yes. Mademoiselle Hortense.’
'哦！是的是的。霍滕斯小姐。”

‘Indeed, sir?’ Mr. Snagsby coughs his cough of submission behind his hat. ‘I am not acquainted myself with the names of foreigners in general, but I have no doubt it WOULD be that.’ Mr. Snagsby appears to have set out in this reply with some desperate design of repeating the name, but on reflection coughs again to excuse himself.
“真的吗，先生？”斯纳斯比先生在帽子后面咳嗽了一声，表示屈服。 “一般来说，我自己并不熟悉外国人的名字，但我毫不怀疑，一定会是这样的。”斯纳格斯比先生在这次答复中似乎是在绝望地重复这个名字，但转念一想，他又咳嗽了。为自己辩解。

‘And what can you have to say, Snagsby,’ demands Mr. Tulkinghorn, ‘about her?’
“斯纳斯比，”图尔金霍恩先生问道，“关于她，你有什么要说的吗？”

‘Well, sir,’ returns the stationer, shading his communication with his hat, ‘it falls a little hard upon me. My domestic happiness is very great—at least, it’s as great as can be expected, I’m sure— but my little woman is rather given to jealousy. Not to put too fine a point upon it, she is very much given to jealousy. And you see, a foreign female of that genteel appearance coming into the shop, and hovering—I should be the last to make use of a strong expression if I could avoid it, but hovering, sir—in the court— you know it is—now ain’t it? I only put it to yourself, sir.
“好吧，先生，”文具店员回答道，用帽子遮住了他的通讯，“这对我来说有点困难。”我的家庭幸福感非常好——至少，我确信这是可以期待的——但我的小女人却很容易嫉妒。不用说得太过分，她很容易嫉妒。你看，一位外表优雅的外国女性走进店里，徘徊——如果我能避免的话，我应该是最后一个使用强烈表达方式的人，但是徘徊，先生——在法庭上——你知道这是——现在不是吗？我只是对你自己说的，先生。

Mr. Snagsby, having said this in a very plaintive manner, throws in a cough of general application to fill up all the blanks.
斯纳格斯比先生以一种非常哀伤的方式说了这句话，然后用通用的咳嗽声来填补所有的空白。

‘Why, what do you mean?’ asks Mr. Tulkinghorn.
“为什么，你是什么意思？”图金霍恩先生问道。

‘Just so, sir,’ returns Mr. Snagsby; ‘I was sure you would feel it yourself and would excuse the reasonableness of MY feelings when coupled with the known excitableness of my little woman. You see, the foreign female—which you mentioned her name just now, with quite a native sound I am sure—caught up the word Snagsby that night, being uncommon quick, and made inquiry, and got the direction and come at dinner-time. Now Guster, our young woman, is timid and has fits, and she, taking fright at the foreigner’s looks—which are fierce—and at a grinding manner that she has of speaking—which is calculated to alarm a weak mind—gave way to it, instead of bearing up against it, and tumbled down the kitchen stairs out of one into another, such fits as I do sometimes think are never gone into, or come out of, in any house but ours. Consequently there was by good fortune ample occupation for my little woman, and only me to answer the shop. When she DID say that Mr. Tulkinghorn, being always denied to her by his employer (which I had no doubt at the time was a foreign mode of viewing a clerk), she would do herself the pleasure of continually calling at my place until she was let in here. Since then she has been, as I began by saying, hovering, hovering, sir’—Mr. Snagsby repeats the word with pathetic emphasis—‘in the court. The effects of which movement it is impossible to calculate. I shouldn’t wonder if it might have already given rise to the painfullest mistakes even in the neighbours’ minds, not mentioning (if such a thing was possible) my little woman. Whereas, goodness knows,’ says Mr. Snagsby, shaking his head, ‘I never had an idea of a foreign female, except as being formerly connected with a bunch of brooms and a baby, or at the present time with a tambourine and earrings. I never had, I do assure you, sir!’
“正是如此，先生，”斯纳斯比先生回答道。 “我确信你会亲自感受到这一点，并且会原谅我的感受的合理性，再加上我的小女人众所周知的兴奋。你看，那个外国女人——你刚才提到了她的名字，我确信她的声音相当地道——那天晚上，她不寻常地很快地听到了斯纳格斯比这个词，并询问了情况，并得到了方向，并在晚餐时间来了。 。现在，我们的年轻女子古斯特很胆怯，脾气暴躁，她被外国人的表情吓坏了——那是凶猛的——还有她说话时的粗暴态度——这是故意让脆弱的心惊慌——让位于它没有顶住它，而是从厨房的楼梯上滚下来，从一个楼梯滚到另一个楼梯上，我有时认为，除了我们的房子之外，在任何房子里都不会出现或出来这种情况。因此，幸运的是，我的小女人有足够的工作，只有我来负责商店。当她确实提到图金霍恩先生时，他的雇主总是拒绝与她见面（当时我毫不怀疑这是一种看待职员的外国方式），她会很高兴地不断地到我家打电话，直到她同意为止。被允许进入这里。从那时起，正如我一开始所说的，她一直在徘徊，徘徊，先生。”——先生。斯纳斯比可怜兮兮地强调了这个词——“在法庭上”。哪种运动的影响无法计算。我不应该怀疑它是否已经引起了最痛苦的错误，甚至在邻居的心中也是如此，更不用说（如果可能的话）我的小女人。然而，天知道，”斯纳斯比先生摇着头说，“我从来没有想过外国女性，除了以前与一堆扫帚和一个婴儿有关，或者现在与手鼓和耳环有关之外。 。 我向你保证，我从未有过，先生！’

Mr. Tulkinghorn had listened gravely to this complaint and inquires when the stationer has finished, ‘And that’s all, is it, Snagsby?’
图金霍恩先生严肃地听着这个抱怨，当文具店员写完后问道：“就这样吧，斯纳斯比？”

‘Why yes, sir, that’s all,’ says Mr. Snagsby, ending with a cough that plainly adds, ‘and it’s enough too—for me.’
“是的，先生，就这些了，”斯纳斯比先生咳嗽了一声，补充道，“对我来说，这也足够了。”

‘I don’t know what Mademoiselle Hortense may want or mean, unless she is mad,’ says the lawyer.
“我不知道霍滕斯小姐想要什么或意味着什么，除非她生气了，”律师说。

‘Even if she was, you know, sir,’ Mr. Snagsby pleads, ‘it wouldn’t be a consolation to have some weapon or another in the form of a foreign dagger planted in the family.’
“先生，你知道，即使她是，”斯纳斯比先生恳求道，“家里安放一把外国匕首这样的武器也不会让人感到安慰。”

‘No,’ says the other. ‘Well, well! This shall be stopped. I am sorry you have been inconvenienced. If she comes again, send her here.’
“不，”另一个说。 '好吧！这种行为应当停止。很抱歉给您带来不便。如果她再来的话，就送她来这里。”

Mr. Snagsby, with much bowing and short apologetic coughing, takes his leave, lightened in heart. Mr. Tulkinghorn goes upstairs, saying to himself, ‘These women were created to give trouble the whole earth over. The mistress not being enough to deal with, here’s the maid now! But I will be short with THIS jade at least!’
斯纳斯比先生深深地鞠了一躬，抱歉地咳嗽了一声，然后心情轻松地离开了。图金霍恩先生上楼，自言自语道：“这些女人生来就是为了给整个地球带来麻烦的。”女主人还不够对付，现在是女仆！但至少我会缺这块玉！”

So saying, he unlocks his door, gropes his way into his murky rooms, lights his candles, and looks about him. It is too dark to see much of the Allegory over-head there, but that importunate Roman, who is for ever toppling out of the clouds and pointing, is at his old work pretty distinctly. Not honouring him with much attention, Mr. Tulkinghorn takes a small key from his pocket, unlocks a drawer in which there is another key, which unlocks a chest in which there is another, and so comes to the cellar-key, with which he prepares to descend to the regions of old wine. He is going towards the door with a candle in his hand when a knock comes.
说着，他打开门锁，摸索着走进昏暗的房间，点燃蜡烛，环顾四周。天色太暗，头顶上看不清寓言的大部分内容，但那个纠缠不休的罗马人，总是从云层中跳出来指指点点，非常清楚地在看他的旧作。图金霍恩先生并没有给予太多的关注，他从口袋里拿出一把小钥匙，打开了一个抽屉，里面有另一把钥匙，又打开了一个箱子，里面有另一把钥匙，然后来到了地窖钥匙，他用这把钥匙准备下到老酒产区。当他手里拿着蜡烛朝门口走去时，有人敲门。

‘Who’s this? Aye, aye, mistress, it’s you, is it? You appear at a good time. I have just been hearing of you. Now! What do you want?’
'这是谁？是啊是啊，小姐，是你吧？你出现得正是时候。我刚刚听说过你。现在！你想要什么？'

He stands the candle on the chimney-piece in the clerk’s hall and taps his dry cheek with the key as he addresses these words of welcome to Mademoiselle Hortense. That feline personage, with her lips tightly shut and her eyes looking out at him sideways, softly closes the door before replying.
他把蜡烛放在职员大厅的烟囱上，一边用钥匙敲打干燥的脸颊，一边对霍滕斯小姐说欢迎的话。那猫一般的人物，双唇紧闭，目光斜视着他，轻轻关上门，然后回答道。

‘I have had great deal of trouble to find you, sir.’
“我费了很大的劲才找到您，先生。”

‘HAVE you!’
'你！'

‘I have been here very often, sir. It has always been said to me, he is not at home, he is engage, he is this and that, he is not for you.’
“我经常来这里，先生。人们总是对我说，他不在家，他订婚了，他这样那样，他不适合你。

‘Quite right, and quite true.’
“非常正确，而且非常正确。”

‘Not true. Lies!’
'不对。谎言！

At times there is a suddenness in the manner of Mademoiselle Hortense so like a bodily spring upon the subject of it that such subject involuntarily starts and fails back. It is Mr. Tulkinghorn’s case at present, though Mademoiselle Hortense, with her eyes almost shut up (but still looking out sideways), is only smiling contemptuously and shaking her head.
有时，霍滕斯小姐的态度会突然出现，就像身体突然跳到这个主题上一样，使这个主题不由自主地开始并失败。目前图金霍恩先生的情况就是如此，不过霍顿斯小姐几乎闭上了眼睛（但仍然斜视着外面），只是轻蔑地微笑着摇摇头。

‘Now, mistress,’ says the lawyer, tapping the key hastily upon the chimney-piece. ‘If you have anything to say, say it, say it.’
“现在，女主人，”律师一边说，一边急忙用钥匙敲击烟囱。 “如果你有什么话要说，就说吧。”

‘Sir, you have not use me well. You have been mean and shabby.’
‘先生，你没有好好利用我。你既卑鄙又卑鄙。

‘Mean and shabby, eh?’ returns the lawyer, rubbing his nose with the key.
“卑鄙又破旧，嗯？”律师回答道，用钥匙擦着鼻子。

‘Yes. What is it that I tell you? You know you have. You have attrapped me—catched me—to give you information; you have asked me to show you the dress of mine my Lady must have wore that night, you have prayed me to come in it here to meet that boy. Say! Is it not?’ Mademoiselle Hortense makes another spring.
'是的。我告诉你什么？你知道你有。你吸引了我——抓住了我——来给你提供信息；你让我给你看我的女士那天晚上一定穿的衣服，你祈求我穿着它来这里见那个男孩。说！不是吗？”霍滕斯小姐又迎来了春天。

‘You are a vixen, a vixen!’ Mr. Tulkinghorn seems to meditate as he looks distrustfully at her, then he replies, ‘Well, wench, well. I paid you.’
“你是个泼妇，泼妇！”图金霍恩先生怀疑地看着她，似乎在沉思，然后回答道：“好吧，丫头，好吧。”我付钱给你了。

‘You paid me!’ she repeats with fierce disdain. ‘Two sovereign! I have not change them, I re-fuse them, I des-pise them, I throw them from me!’ Which she literally does, taking them out of her bosom as she speaks and flinging them with such violence on the floor that they jerk up again into the light before they roll away into corners and slowly settle down there after spinning vehemently.
“你付钱给我！”她带着强烈的蔑视重复道。 ‘两位君主！我没有改变它们，我拒绝它们，我鄙视它们，我把它们从我身边扔掉！”她确实这么做了，一边说话一边把它们从怀里拿出来，用如此暴力的方式把它们扔到地板上，以至于它们都被扔到了地上。在它们滚到角落之前，它们会再次猛地升到光线中，并在剧烈旋转后慢慢地在那里安顿下来。

‘Now!’ says Mademoiselle Hortense, darkening her large eyes again. ‘You have paid me? Eh, my God, oh yes!’
“现在！”霍滕斯小姐说道，她的大眼睛又变黑了。 ‘你付钱给我了？呃，天啊，哦，是的！

Mr. Tulkinghorn rubs his head with the key while she entertains herself with a sarcastic laugh.
图金霍恩先生用钥匙擦着头，而她则自嘲地笑了起来。

‘You must be rich, my fair friend,’ he composedly observes, ‘to throw money about in that way!’
“我亲爱的朋友，你一定很富有，”他平静地说道，“才会这样乱花钱！”

‘I AM rich,’ she returns. ‘I am very rich in hate. I hate my Lady, of all my heart. You know that.’
“我很有钱，”她回答道。 ‘我充满仇恨。我从心底里恨我的夫人。你懂的。'

‘Know it? How should I know it?’
'知道？我怎么知道呢？

‘Because you have known it perfectly before you prayed me to give you that information. Because you have known perfectly that I was en-r-r-r-raged!’ It appears impossible for mademoiselle to roll the letter ‘r’ sufficiently in this word, notwithstanding that she assists her energetic delivery by clenching both her hands and setting all her teeth.
‘因为在你请求我向你提供这些信息之前，你已经完全了解了这一点。因为你完全知道我当时非常愤怒！”小姐似乎不可能在这个单词中充分滚动字母“r”，尽管她通过紧握双手和咬紧牙关来帮助她充满活力的表达。

‘Oh! I knew that, did I?’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, examining the wards of the key.
'哦！ “我知道这一点，不是吗？”图金霍恩先生一边说，一边检查钥匙的防护区。

‘Yes, without doubt. I am not blind. You have made sure of me because you knew that. You had reason! I det-est her.’ Mademoiselle folds her arms and throws this last remark at him over one of her shoulders.
‘是的，毫无疑问。我不是瞎子。你对我很确定，因为你知道这一点。你有道理！ “我讨厌她。”小姐抱起双臂，越过肩膀对他说了这最后一句话。

‘Having said this, have you anything else to say, mademoiselle?’
“说了这么多，小姐还有什么要说的吗？”

‘I am not yet placed. Place me well. Find me a good condition! If you cannot, or do not choose to do that, employ me to pursue her, to chase her, to disgrace and to dishonour her. I will help you well, and with a good will. It is what YOU do. Do I not know that?’
‘我还没有被安置。把我安置好。给我找个好条件！如果你不能，或者不选择这样做，就雇用我去追求她，追赶她，羞辱她，羞辱她。我会很好地帮助你，而且是善意的。这就是你所做的。难道我不知道吗？

‘You appear to know a good deal,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn retorts.
“你似乎知道很多，”图金霍恩先生反驳道。

‘Do I not? Is it that I am so weak as to believe, like a child, that I come here in that dress to rec-cive that boy only to decide a little bet, a wager? Eh, my God, oh yes!’ In this reply, down to the word ‘wager’ inclusive, mademoiselle has been ironically polite and tender, then as suddenly dashed into the bitterest and most defiant scorn, with her black eyes in one and the same moment very nearly shut and staringly wide open.
‘我不是吗？是不是我太软弱了，像个孩子一样相信我穿着那件衣服来到这里是为了接待那个男孩，只是为了决定一个小小的赌注，一个赌注？呃，我的上帝，哦，是的！”在这个回答中，一直到“赌注”这个词都包含在内，小姐一直表现出讽刺的礼貌和温柔，然后突然陷入了最痛苦和最挑衅的蔑视中，她的黑眼睛眯成一条缝，同一时刻几乎关闭又完全敞开。

‘Now, let us see,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, tapping his chin with the key and looking imperturbably at her, ‘how this matter stands.’
“现在，让我们看看，”图尔金霍恩先生用钥匙敲着下巴，平静地看着她，“这件事到底是怎么回事。”

‘Ah! Let us see,’ mademoiselle assents, with many angry and tight nods of her head.
'啊！让我们看看，”小姐表示同意，同时愤怒地多次点头。

‘You come here to make a remarkably modest demand, which you have just stated, and it not being conceded, you will come again.’
“你来这里是为了提出一个非常温和的要求，正如你刚才所说的，如果不被承认，你就会再来。”

‘And again,’ says mademoiselle with more tight and angry nods. ‘And yet again. And yet again. And many times again. In effect, for ever!’
“再来一次，”小姐说道，并更加紧张和愤怒地点头。 ‘还有一次。还有一次。又重复了很多次。实际上，永远！”

‘And not only here, but you will go to Mr, Snagsby’s too, perhaps? That visit not succeeding either, you will go again perhaps?’
“不仅是这里，也许你也会去斯纳斯比先生家？”那次访问也不成功，你也许会再去一次？

‘And again,’ repeats mademoiselle, cataleptic with determination. ‘And yet again. And yet again. And many times again. In effect, for ever!’
“再来一次，”小姐重复道，眼神坚定而坚定。 ‘还有一次。还有一次。又重复了很多次。实际上，永远！”

‘Very well. Now, Mademoiselle Hortense, let me recommend you to take the candle and pick up that money of yours. I think you will find it behind the clerk’s partition in the corner yonder.’
'很好。现在，霍滕斯小姐，让我建议你拿起蜡烛，拿起你的钱。我想你会在那边角落里店员的隔板后面找到它。

She merely throws a laugh over her shoulder and stands her ground with folded arms.
她只是笑了笑，双手抱胸坚守阵地。

‘You will not, eh?’
“你不会，嗯？”

‘No, I will not!’
'不我不会！'

‘So much the poorer you; so much the richer I! Look, mistress, this is the key of my wine-cellar. It is a large key, but the keys of prisons are larger. In this city there are houses of correction (where the treadmills are, for women), the gates of which are very strong and heavy, and no doubt the keys too. I am afraid a lady of your spirit and activity would find it an inconvenience to have one of those keys turned upon her for any length of time. What do you think?’
‘你就更穷了；我就更富有了！夫人，你看，这是我酒窖的钥匙。这是一把大钥匙，但监狱的钥匙更大。在这个城市里有一些惩戒所（那里有女性的跑步机），它们的大门非常坚固和沉重，毫无疑问也有钥匙。我担心像你这样精神和活跃的女士会发现其中一把钥匙长时间打开会给她带来不便。你怎么认为？'

‘I think,’ mademoiselle replies without any action and in a clear, obliging voice, ‘that you are a miserable wretch.’
“我认为，”小姐没有任何动作，用一种清晰、亲切的声音回答道，“你是一个可怜的可怜虫。”

‘Probably,’ returns Mr. Tulkinghorn, quietly blowing his nose. ‘But I don’t ask what you think of myself; I ask what you think of the prison.’
“可能吧，”图尔金霍恩先生回答道，轻轻地擤了擤鼻子。 “但我不会问你对我自己的看法；我会问你对我自己的看法。”我问你对监狱的看法。

‘Nothing. What does it matter to me?’
'没有什么。这对我有什么关系？

‘Why, it matters this much, mistress,’ says the lawyer, deliberately putting away his handkerchief and adjusting his frill; ‘the law is so despotic here that it interferes to prevent any of our good English citizens from being troubled, even by a lady’s visits against his desire. And on his complaining that he is so troubled, it takes hold of the troublesome lady and shuts her up in prison under hard discipline. Turns the key upon her, mistress.’ Illustrating with the cellar-key.
“哎呀，这事这么重要，情妇，”律师一边说，一边故意收起手帕，调整了一下褶边。 “这里的法律是如此专制，以至于它阻止我们任何一个善良的英国公民受到困扰，即使是一位女士违反他的意愿来访。当他抱怨自己太麻烦时，它抓住了这位麻烦的女士，把她关进监狱，接受严厉的管教。把钥匙转向她，女主人。’用地窖钥匙来说明。

‘Truly?’ returns mademoiselle in the same pleasant voice. ‘That is droll! But—my faith! —still what does it matter to me?’
“真的吗？”小姐用同样愉快的声音回答。 ‘真是滑稽！但是——我的信仰！ ——这对我来说还有什么关系呢？

‘My fair friend,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, ‘make another visit here, or at Mr. Snagsby’s, and you shall learn.’
“我的好朋友，”塔尔金霍恩先生说，“再来这里一次，或者去斯纳斯比先生家，你就会学到东西的。”

‘In that case you will send me to the prison, perhaps?’
“既然如此，你也许会把我送进监狱吧？”

‘Perhaps.’
'也许。'

It would be contradictory for one in mademoiselle’s state of agreeable jocularity to foam at the mouth, otherwise a tigerish expansion thereabouts might look as if a very little more would make her do it.
对于一个在小姐愉快的诙谐状态下口吐白沫的人来说，这是自相矛盾的，否则，周围的老虎般的扩张可能看起来好像多一点点就会让她这么做。

‘In a word, mistress,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, ‘I am sorry to be unpolite, but if you ever present yourself uninvited here—or there—again, I will give you over to the police. Their gallantry is great, but they carry troublesome people through the streets in an ignominious manner, strapped down on a board, my good wench.’
“总而言之，女主人，”图尔金霍恩先生说，“我很抱歉不礼貌，但如果你再次不请自来地出现在这里或那里，我会把你交给警察。”他们的英勇是伟大的，但他们以一种可耻的方式带着麻烦的人穿过街道，把他们绑在木板上，我的好姑娘。

‘I will prove you,’ whispers mademoiselle, stretching out her hand, ‘I will try if you dare to do it!’
“我会证明给你看，”小姐伸出手低声说道，“如果你敢的话，我就试试！”

‘And if,’ pursues the lawyer without minding her, ‘I place you in that good condition of being locked up in jail, it will be some time before you find yourself at liberty again.’
“如果，”律师不理睬她，继续说道，“我会让你处于被关进监狱的良好状态，那么你需要一段时间才能再次获得自由。”

‘I will prove you,’ repeats mademoiselle in her former whisper.
“我会证明给你看，”小姐用以前的低声重复道。

‘And now,’ proceeds the lawyer, still without minding her, ‘you had better go. Think twice before you come here again.’
“现在，”律师继续说道，仍然没有理会她，“你最好走吧。”在你再次来到这里之前请三思。

‘Think you,’ she answers, ‘twice two hundred times!’
“想想你，”她回答，“两次两百次！”

‘You were dismissed by your lady, you know,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn observes, following her out upon the staircase, ‘as the most implacable and unmanageable of women. Now turn over a new leaf and take warning by what I say to you. For what I say, I mean; and what I threaten, I will do, mistress.’
“你知道，你被你的女士抛弃了，”图尔金霍恩先生一边说，一边跟着她走上楼梯，“认为你是最难以平息、最难以驾驭的女人。”现在翻开新的一页，并接受我对你所说的话的警告。我所说的，我的意思是；我威胁什么，我就会做什么，夫人。”

She goes down without answering or looking behind her. When she is gone, he goes down too, and returning with his cobweb-covered bottle, devotes himself to a leisurely enjoyment of its contents, now and then, as he throws his head back in his chair, catching sight of the pertinacious Roman pointing from the ceiling.
她没有回答，也没有回头看，就下去了。当她走后，他也下去了，带着他那只布满蜘蛛网的瓶子回来了，全神贯注于悠闲地享受里面的东西，时不时地，他把头靠在椅子上，瞥见罗马人顽固的指点。从天花板上。

CHAPTER XLIII
第四十三章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

It matters little now how much I thought of my living mother who had told me evermore to consider her dead. I could not venture to approach her or to communicate with her in writing, for my sense of the peril in which her life was passed was only to be equalled by my fears of increasing it. Knowing that my mere existence as a living creature was an unforeseen danger in her way, I could not always conquer that terror of myself which had seized me when I first knew the secret. At no time did I dare to utter her name. I felt as if I did not even dare to hear it. If the conversation anywhere, when I was present, took that direction, as it sometimes naturally did, I tried not to hear: I mentally counted, repeated something that I knew, or went out of the room. I am conscious now that I often did these things when there can have been no danger of her being spoken of, but I did them in the dread I had of hearing anything that might lead to her betrayal, and to her betrayal through me.
现在我有多想念我活着的母亲已经无关紧要了，她一直告诉我要考虑她已经死了。我无法冒险接近她或与她进行书面交流，因为我对她生命中所经历的危险的感觉与我对增加危险的恐惧相当。当我知道我作为一个生物的存在对她来说是一种不可预见的危险时，我总是无法克服当我第一次知道这个秘密时对我自己的恐惧。我始终不敢说出她的名字。我感觉自己连听都不敢听。如果任何地方的谈话，当我在场时，朝着那个方向发展，就像有时自然地那样，我尽量不去听：我在心里数着，重复我知道的事情，或者走出房间。我现在意识到，我经常在没有她被谈论的危险的情况下做这些事情，但我这样做是因为我害怕听到任何可能导致她背叛的事情，以及她通过我背叛的事情。

It matters little now how often I recalled the tones of my mother’s voice, wondered whether I should ever hear it again as I so longed to do, and thought how strange and desolate it was that it should be so new to me. It matters little that I watched for every public mention of my mother’s name; that I passed and repassed the door of her house in town, loving it, but afraid to look at it; that I once sat in the theatre when my mother was there and saw me, and when we were so wide asunder before the great company of all degrees that any link or confidence between us seemed a dream. It is all, all over. My lot has been so blest that I can relate little of myself which is not a story of goodness and generosity in others. I may well pass that little and go on.
现在，我多少次想起母亲的语气，想知道我是否还能像我渴望的那样再次听到它，并想它对我来说是如此陌生和荒凉，这已经无关紧要了。我关注每一次公开提及我母亲的名字并不重要；但我知道，这并不重要。我在镇上经过她家的门，又经过又经过，很喜欢它，但又不敢看它。有一次，我坐在剧院里，母亲也在场，看到了我，当时我们在各阶层的大朋友面前分歧如此之大，以至于我们之间的任何联系或信任都像是一场梦。一切都结束了。我的命运如此幸运，以至于我几乎无法讲述自己的故事，这不是一个关于他人善良和慷慨的故事。我很可能会略过这一点并继续下去。

When we were settled at home again, Ada and I had many conversations with my guardian of which Richard was the theme. My dear girl was deeply grieved that he should do their kind cousin so much wrong, but she was so faithful to Richard that she could not bear to blame him even for that. My guardian was assured of it, and never coupled his name with a word of reproof. ‘Rick is mistaken, my dear,’ he would say to her. ‘Well, well! We have all been mistaken over and over again. We must trust to you and time to set him right.’
当我们再次在家安顿下来时，艾达和我与我的监护人进行了多次对话，其中理查德是主题。我亲爱的女儿对他如此伤害了他们善良的表弟而深感悲痛，但她对理查德如此忠诚，以至于她甚至不忍心为此责备他。我的监护人对此深信不疑，并没有在他的名字上加上一句责备的话。 “瑞克错了，亲爱的，”他会对她说。 '好吧！我们都一次又一次地犯错。我们必须相信你和时间来纠正他的错误。

We knew afterwards what we suspected then, that he did not trust to time until he had often tried to open Richard’s eyes. That he had written to him, gone to him, talked with him, tried every gentle and persuasive art his kindness could devise. Our poor devoted Richard was deaf and blind to all. If he were wrong, he would make amends when the Chancery suit was over. If he were groping in the dark, he could not do better than do his utmost to clear away those clouds in which so much was confused and obscured. Suspicion and misunderstanding were the fault of the suit? Then let him work the suit out and come through it to his right mind. This was his unvarying reply. Jarndyce and Jarndyce had obtained such possession of his whole nature that it was impossible to place any consideration before him which he did not, with a distorted kind of reason, make a new argument in favour of his doing what he did. ‘So that it is even more mischievous,’ said my guardian once to me, ‘to remonstrate with the poor dear fellow than to leave him alone.’
后来我们才知道我们当时的怀疑，他不相信时间，直到他经常试图睁开理查德的眼睛。他曾写信给他，去找过他，与他交谈过，尝试过他仁慈能想到的每一种温柔而有说服力的技巧。我们可怜的虔诚的理查德对所有人都充耳不闻、视而不见。如果他错了，他会在大法官诉讼结束后做出弥补。如果他在黑暗中摸索，他最好的办法莫过于尽最大努力清除那些混乱和模糊的乌云。怀疑和误会都是诉讼惹的祸？然后让他把这套衣服设计出来，并通过它恢复正常的头脑。这是他不变的回答。贾迪斯和贾迪斯已经完全掌握了他的整个本性，以至于他不可能不以一种扭曲的理由提出新的论据来支持他所做的事情。 “因此，”我的监护人有一次对我说，“劝告这个可怜的亲爱的小伙子比让他独自一人更加恶作剧。”

I took one of these opportunities of mentioning my doubts of Mr. Skimpole as a good adviser for Richard.
我利用其中一个机会提到了我对斯基姆波尔先生作为理查德的好顾问的怀疑。

‘Adviser!’ returned my guardian, laughing, ‘My dear, who would advise with Skimpole?’
“顾问！”我的监护人笑着回答道，“亲爱的，谁会向斯基姆波尔提供建议呢？”

‘Encourager would perhaps have been a better word,’ said I.
“用‘鼓励’这个词或许更好。”我说。

‘Encourager!’ returned my guardian again. ‘Who could be encouraged by Skimpole?’
“鼓励者！”我的监护人再次回答道。 “斯金波尔可以鼓励谁？”

‘Not Richard?’ I asked.
“不是理查德吗？”我问。

‘No,’ he replied. ‘Such an unworldly, uncalculating, gossamer creature is a relief to him and an amusement. But as to advising or encouraging or occupying a serious station towards anybody or anything, it is simply not to be thought of in such a child as Skimpole.’
“不，”他回答道。 “这样一个超凡脱俗、不计较的、如丝般的生物对他来说是一种解脱，也是一种乐趣。但至于对任何人或任何事提供建议、鼓励或占据严肃的地位，对于像斯金波尔这样的孩子来说，根本就不可能被想到。

‘Pray, cousin John,’ said Ada, who had just joined us and now looked over my shoulder, ‘what made him such a child?’
“请问，约翰表弟，”刚加入我们的艾达说道，现在她回头看了看我的肩膀，“是什么让他变得如此孩子气？”

‘What made him such a child?’ inquired my guardian, rubbing his head, a little at a loss.
“是什么让他变成了这样一个孩子？”我的监护人摸着头问道，有点不知所措。

‘Yes, cousin John.’
“是的，约翰表弟。”

‘Why,’ he slowly replied, roughening his head more and more, ‘he is all sentiment, and—and susceptibility, and—and sensibility, and— and imagination. And these qualities are not regulated in him, somehow. I suppose the people who admired him for them in his youth attached too much importance to them and too little to any training that would have balanced and adjusted them, and so he became what he is. Hey?’ said my guardian, stopping short and looking at us hopefully. ‘What do you think, you two?’
“为什么，”他慢慢地回答，他的头越来越粗糙，“他充满了感性，而且——和易感性，和——和感性，和——和想象力。”不知何故，这些品质在他身上并没有受到调节。我想那些在他年轻时钦佩他的人过于重视这些，而太少关注任何平衡和调整它们的训练，所以他变成了现在的样子。嘿？”我的监护人突然停下来，充满希望地看着我们。 “你们两个觉得怎么样？”

Ada, glancing at me, said she thought it was a pity he should be an expense to Richard.
艾达看了我一眼，说她觉得他成了理查德的牺牲品，真是可惜。

‘So it is, so it is,’ returned my guardian hurriedly. ‘That must not be. We must arrange that. I must prevent it. That will never do.’
“原来如此，原来如此。”我的监护人急忙回答道。 ‘那一定不是这样的。我们必须安排一下。我必须阻止它。那是永远不行的。

And I said I thought it was to be regretted that he had ever introduced Richard to Mr. Vholes for a present of five pounds.
我说我认为他曾将理查德介绍给沃尔斯先生以换取五英镑的礼物，这令人遗憾。

‘Did he?’ said my guardian with a passing shade of vexation on his face. ‘But there you have the man. There you have the man! There is nothing mercenary in that with him. He has no idea of the value of money. He introduces Rick, and then he is good friends with Mr. Vholes and borrows five pounds of him. He means nothing by it and thinks nothing of it. He told you himself, I’ll be bound, my dear?’
“是吗？”我的监护人说道，脸上闪过一丝烦恼。 “但是你看到了这个人。”那就是你的男人！他身上没有任何唯利是图的成分。他不知道金钱的价值。他介绍了里克，然后与沃尔斯先生成了好朋友，并向他借了五英镑。他这样说毫无意义，也没有多想。他亲口告诉过你，我会被束缚的，亲爱的？

‘Oh, yes!’ said I.
“哦，是的！”我说。

‘Exactly!’ cried my guardian, quite triumphant. ‘There you have the man! If he had meant any harm by it or was conscious of any harm in it, he wouldn’t tell it. He tells it as he does it in mere simplicity. But you shall see him in his own home, and then you’ll understand him better. We must pay a visit to Harold Skimpole and caution him on these points. Lord bless you, my dears, an infant, an infant!’
“完全正确！”我的监护人得意洋洋地喊道。 ‘这就是那个男人！如果他有意这样做或意识到其中有任何危害，他就不会说出来。他说的和做的一样简单。但你会在他自己的家里见到他，然后你就会更好地了解他。我们必须拜访哈罗德·斯金波尔并就这些问题向他提出警告。上帝保佑你，亲爱的，一个婴儿，一个婴儿！

In pursuance of this plan, we went into London on an early day and presented ourselves at Mr. Skimpole’s door.
为了执行这个计划，我们一早就来到了伦敦，来到了斯金波尔先生的家门口。

He lived in a place called the Polygon, in Somers Town, where there were at that time a number of poor Spanish refugees walking about in cloaks, smoking little paper cigars. Whether he was a better tenant than one might have supposed, in consequence of his friend Somebody always paying his rent at last, or whether his inaptitude for business rendered it particularly difficult to turn him out, I don’t know; but he had occupied the same house some years. It was in a state of dilapidation quite equal to our expectation. Two or three of the area railings were gone, the water-butt was broken, the knocker was loose, the bell-handle had been pulled off a long time to judge from the rusty state of the wire, and dirty footprints on the steps were the only signs of its being inhabited.
他住在萨默斯镇一个叫“多边形”的地方，当时那里有一些贫穷的西班牙难民穿着斗篷走来走去，抽着小纸雪茄。我不知道他是否是一个比人们想象的更好的房客，因为他的朋友总有人最后支付他的房租，或者是否他的商业能力使他很难把他赶出去；但我不知道。但他已经在同一所房子里住了很多年了。它的破旧程度与我们的预期相当。小区栏杆不见了，水桶坏了，门环松了，从铁丝生锈的情况看，钟把手已经被拉掉很久了，台阶上有肮脏的脚印。这是它有人居住的唯一迹象。

A slatternly full-blown girl who seemed to be bursting out at the rents in her gown and the cracks in her shoes like an over-ripe berry answered our knock by opening the door a very little way and stopping up the gap with her figure. As she knew Mr. Jarndyce (indeed Ada and I both thought that she evidently associated him with the receipt of her wages), she immediately relented and allowed us to pass in. The lock of the door being in a disabled condition, she then applied herself to securing it with the chain, which was not in good action either, and said would we go upstairs?
一个邋遢成熟的女孩，她的礼服和鞋子上的裂缝就像一个熟透的浆果，她似乎因为她的礼服的撕裂和鞋子的裂缝而爆发，她回应我们的敲门，把门打开了一点点，用她的身材堵住了缝隙。由于她认识贾迪斯先生（事实上，艾达和我都认为她显然将他与她的工资收据联系在一起），她立即心软并允许我们进去。门锁处于失效状态，然后她申请了她自己用链子固定它，链子也不好用，并说我们要上楼吗？

We went upstairs to the first floor, still seeing no other furniture than the dirty footprints. Mr. Jarndyce without further ceremony entered a room there, and we followed. It was dingy enough and not at all clean, but furnished with an odd kind of shabby luxury, with a large footstool, a sofa, and plenty of cushions, an easy-chair, and plenty of pillows, a piano, books, drawing materials, music, newspapers, and a few sketches and pictures. A broken pane of glass in one of the dirty windows was papered and wafered over, but there was a little plate of hothouse nectarines on the table, and there was another of grapes, and another of sponge-cakes, and there was a bottle of light wine. Mr. Skimpole himself reclined upon the sofa in a dressing-gown, drinking some fragrant coffee from an old china cup—it was then about mid-day—and looking at a collection of wallflowers in the balcony.
我们上楼到了一楼，除了肮脏的脚印之外，仍然没有看到其他家具。贾迪斯先生没有进一步的仪式就进入了那里的一个房间，我们也跟着进去。房间已经够脏了，一点也不干净，但布置却有一种奇怪的破旧奢华，有一个大脚凳、一张沙发、很多垫子、一张安乐椅、很多枕头、一架钢琴、书籍、绘画材料、音乐、报纸以及一些草图和图片。一扇肮脏的窗户上有一块破碎的玻璃，上面贴满了纸和薄片，但桌子上有一小盘温室油桃，还有一颗葡萄，还有一块海绵蛋糕，还有一瓶啤酒。淡酒。斯金波尔先生本人穿着晨衣斜靠在沙发上，喝着旧瓷杯里的香浓咖啡——当时大约是中午——看着阳台上的一群壁花。

He was not in the least disconcerted by our appearance, but rose and received us in his usual airy manner.
他丝毫没有因为我们的出现而感到不安，而是站起来，以他一贯的轻松态度接待了我们。

‘Here I am, you see!’ he said when we were seated, not without some little difficulty, the greater part of the chairs being broken. ‘Here I am! This is my frugal breakfast. Some men want legs of beef and mutton for breakfast; I don’t. Give me my peach, my cup of coffee, and my claret; I am content. I don’t want them for themselves, but they remind me of the sun. There’s nothing solar about legs of beef and mutton. Mere animal satisfaction!’
“我在这里，你看！”当我们坐下时，他说道，但遇到了一些困难，椅子的大部分都坏了。 '我在这里！这就是我节俭的早餐。有些男人早餐想吃牛羊腿；有些男人想吃牛羊腿。我不。给我我的桃子、我的咖啡和我的红葡萄酒；我满足了。我并不想要它们本身，但它们让我想起了太阳。牛羊腿没有任何阳光。仅仅是动物的满足！’

‘This is our friend’s consulting-room (or would be, if he ever prescribed), his sanctum, his studio,’ said my guardian to us.
“这是我们朋友的咨询室（或者，如果他曾经开过处方的话），他的密室，他的工作室，”我的监护人对我们说。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Skimpole, turning his bright face about, ‘this is the bird’s cage. This is where the bird lives and sings. They pluck his feathers now and then and clip his wings, but he sings, he sings!’
“是的，”斯金波尔先生转过他那张明亮的脸说道，“这就是鸟笼。”这是鸟儿生活和歌唱的地方。他们时不时地拔掉他的羽毛，剪掉他的翅膀，但他唱歌，他唱歌！”

He handed us the grapes, repeating in his radiant way, ‘He sings! Not an ambitious note, but still he sings.’
他把葡萄递给我们，用他光芒四射的方式重复道：“他唱歌了！”虽然不是一个雄心勃勃的音符，但他仍然唱歌。

‘These are very fine,’ said my guardian. ‘A present?’
“这些都很好，”我的监护人说。 '礼物？'

‘No,’ he answered. ‘No! Some amiable gardener sells them. His man wanted to know, when he brought them last evening, whether he should wait for the money. ‘Really, my friend,’ I said, ‘I think not—if your time is of any value to you.’ I suppose it was, for he went away.’
“不，”他回答道。 '不！一些和蔼可亲的园丁出售它们。他的人想知道，当他昨晚带来这些钱时，他是否应该等待钱。 “真的，我的朋友，”我说，“我想不会——如果你的时间对你有价值的话。”我想是的，因为他走了。

My guardian looked at us with a smile, as though he asked us, ‘Is it possible to be worldly with this baby?’
我的监护人微笑着看着我们，仿佛在问我们：“这个孩子还能世俗吗？”

‘This is a day,’ said Mr. Skimpole, gaily taking a little claret in a tumbler, ‘that will ever be remembered here. We shall call it Saint Clare and Saint Summerson day. You must see my daughters. I have a blue-eyed daughter who is my Beauty daughter, I have a Sentiment daughter, and I have a Comedy daughter. You must see them all. They’ll be enchanted.’
“这一天，”斯金波尔先生兴高采烈地在玻璃杯里盛了一杯红葡萄酒，说道，“这里将永远铭记这一天。”我们将其称为圣克莱尔和圣萨默森日。你一定要看看我的女儿们。我有一个蓝眼睛的女儿，她是我的美丽女儿，我有一个情感女儿，我有一个喜剧女儿。你必须看到它们全部。他们会着迷的。

He was going to summon them when my guardian interposed and asked him to pause a moment, as he wished to say a word to him first. ‘My dear Jarndyce,’ he cheerfully replied, going back to his sofa, ‘as many moments as you please. Time is no object here. We never know what o’clock it is, and we never care. Not the way to get on in life, you’ll tell me? Certainly. But we DON’T get on in life. We don’t pretend to do it.’
当他正要召唤他们时，我的监护人插嘴并要求他暂停一下，因为他想先对他说一句话。 “我亲爱的贾迪斯，”他高兴地回答，然后回到沙发上，“你想多久都可以。”时间在这里不再是问题。我们永远不知道现在几点了，我们也从不关心。你会告诉我，这不是生活的方式吗？当然。但我们的生活却过不下去。我们不会假装这样做。

My guardian looked at us again, plainly saying, ‘You hear him?’
我的监护人再次看着我们，淡淡地说：“你们听到了吗？”

‘Now, Harold,’ he began, ‘the word I have to say relates to Rick.’
“现在，哈罗德，”他开始说道，“我要说的这个词与里克有关。”

‘The dearest friend I have!’ returned Mr. Skimpole cordially. ‘I suppose he ought not to be my dearest friend, as he is not on terms with you. But he is, I can’t help it; he is full of youthful poetry, and I love him. If you don’t like it, I can’t help it. I love him.’
“我最亲爱的朋友！”斯金波尔先生亲切地回答道。 “我想他不应该成为我最亲密的朋友，因为他与你关系不和。但他就是这样，我无能为力；他充满了青春的诗意，我爱他。如果你不喜欢，我也无能为力。我爱他。'

The engaging frankness with which he made this declaration really had a disinterested appearance and captivated my guardian, if not, for the moment, Ada too.
他发表这一声明时所表现出的令人着迷的坦率确实具有一种无私的外表，并且吸引了我的监护人（如果不是的话），艾达也被吸引了。

‘You are welcome to love him as much as you like,’ returned Mr. Jarndyce, ‘but we must save his pocket, Harold.’
“欢迎你尽情地爱他，”贾迪斯先生回答道，“但我们必须拯救他的口袋，哈罗德。”

‘Oh!’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘His pocket? Now you are coming to what I don’t understand.’ Taking a little more claret and dipping one of the cakes in it, he shook his head and smiled at Ada and me with an ingenuous foreboding that he never could be made to understand.
“哦！”斯金波尔先生说。 ‘他的口袋？现在你开始明白我不明白的事情了。”他又拿了一点红葡萄酒，把一块蛋糕浸在里面，然后摇摇头，对艾达和我微笑，带着一种他永远无法理解的天真不祥的预感。

‘If you go with him here or there,’ said my guardian plainly, ‘you must not let him pay for both.’
“如果你和他一起去这里或那里，”我的监护人明确地说，“你不能让他付钱。”

‘My dear Jarndyce,’ returned Mr. Skimpole, his genial face irradiated by the comicality of this idea, ‘what am I to do? If he takes me anywhere, I must go. And how can I pay? I never have any money. If I had any money, I don’t know anything about it. Suppose I say to a man, how much? Suppose the man says to me seven and sixpence? I know nothing about seven and sixpence. It is impossible for me to pursue the subject with any consideration for the man. I don’t go about asking busy people what seven and sixpence is in Moorish—which I don’t understand. Why should I go about asking them what seven and sixpence is in Money—which I don’t understand?’
“我亲爱的贾迪斯，”斯金波尔先生回答道，他和蔼可亲的脸因这个滑稽的想法而焕发光彩，“我该怎么办？如果他带我去任何地方，我就必须去。我该如何付款？我从来没有钱。如果我有钱，我对此一无所知。假设我对一个人说，多少钱？假设这个人对我说七又六便士呢？我对七便士一无所知。我不可能在不顾及这个人的情况下讨论这个话题。我不会去问忙碌的人摩尔语中的七又六便士是什么——我听不懂。我为什么要问他们“金钱”中的“七便士”和“六便士”是多少——我不明白？

‘Well,’ said my guardian, by no means displeased with this artless reply, ‘if you come to any kind of journeying with Rick, you must borrow the money of me (never breathing the least allusion to that circumstance), and leave the calculation to him.’
“好吧，”我的监护人对这个朴实的回答一点也不不满意，“如果你和瑞克一起去旅行，你必须借我的钱（绝对不要提及这种情况），然后离开给他算算。

‘My dear Jarndyce,’ returned Mr. Skimpole, ‘I will do anything to give you pleasure, but it seems an idle form—a superstition. Besides, I give you my word, Miss Clare and my dear Miss Summerson, I thought Mr. Carstone was immensely rich. I thought he had only to make over something, or to sign a bond, or a draft, or a cheque, or a bill, or to put something on a file somewhere, to bring down a shower of money.’
“我亲爱的贾迪斯，”斯金波尔先生回答道，“我愿意做任何事情来让你高兴，但这似乎是一种无聊的形式——一种迷信。”此外，我向你们保证，克莱尔小姐和我亲爱的萨默森小姐，我认为卡斯顿先生非常富有。我以为他只需改造一些东西，或者签署一份债券、一张汇票、一张支票、一张账单，或者把一些东西放在某个地方的档案中，就能带来一大笔钱。

‘Indeed it is not so, sir,’ said Ada. ‘He is poor.’
“事实上并非如此，先生，”艾达说。 “他很穷。”

‘No, really?’ returned Mr. Skimpole with his bright smile. ‘You surprise me.
“没有，真的吗？”斯金波尔先生带着灿烂的笑容回答道。 ‘你让我很惊讶。

‘And not being the richer for trusting in a rotten reed,’ said my guardian, laying his hand emphatically on the sleeve of Mr. Skimpole’s dressing-gown, ‘be you very careful not to encourage him in that reliance, Harold.’
“不要因为相信一根腐烂的芦苇而变得更富有，”我的监护人说，他把手放在斯基姆波尔先生晨衣的袖子上，“你要非常小心，不要鼓励他这种依赖，哈罗德。”

‘My dear good friend,’ returned Mr. Skimpole, ‘and my dear Miss Siunmerson, and my dear Miss Clare, how can I do that? It’s business, and I don’t know business. It is he who encourages me. He emerges from great feats of business, presents the brightest prospects before me as their result, and calls upon me to admire them. I do admire them—as bright prospects. But I know no more about them, and I tell him so.’
“我亲爱的好朋友，”斯金波尔先生回答道，“还有我亲爱的西恩默森小姐，还有我亲爱的克莱尔小姐，我该怎么办呢？这是生意，而我不懂生意。是他鼓励我。他从伟大的商业成就中脱颖而出，将最光明的前景作为其结果呈现在我面前，并呼吁我钦佩它们。我确实钦佩他们——因为他们有着光明的前景。但我对他们一无所知，所以我告诉了他。”

The helpless kind of candour with which he presented this before us, the light-hearted manner in which he was amused by his innocence, the fantastic way in which he took himself under his own protection and argued about that curious person, combined with the delightful ease of everything he said exactly to make out my guardian’s case. The more I saw of him, the more unlikely it seemed to me, when he was present, that he could design, conceal, or influence anything; and yet the less likely that appeared when he was not present, and the less agreeable it was to think of his having anything to do with any one for whom I cared.
他以一种无助的坦率向我们展示了这一点，他对自己的纯真感到好笑的轻松态度，他将自己置于自己的保护之下并与那个好奇的人争论的奇妙方式，再加上令人愉快的他所说的一切都是为了弄清楚我监护人的情况而轻松。我对他看得越多，当他在场时，我就越觉得他不可能设计、隐瞒或影响任何事情。然而，当他不在场时，这种情况就越不可能出现，一想到他与我所关心的任何人有任何关系，我就越不愉快。

Hearing that his examination (as he called it) was now over, Mr. Skimpole left the room with a radiant face to fetch his daughters (his sons had run away at various times), leaving my guardian quite delighted by the manner in which he had vindicated his childish character. He soon came back, bringing with him the three young ladies and Mrs. Skimpole, who had once been a beauty but was now a delicate high-nosed invalid suffering under a complication of disorders.
听说他的考试（他这样称呼考试）已经结束，斯金波尔先生满脸容光焕发地离开房间去接他的女儿们（他的儿子们曾多次逃跑），这让我的监护人对他的表现感到非常高兴。证明了他幼稚的性格。他很快就回来了，带来了三位年轻女士和斯金波尔夫人。斯金波尔夫人曾经是一位美人，但现在却是一位娇弱的高鼻子病人，患有并发症。

‘This,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘is my Beauty daughter, Arethusa—plays and sings odds and ends like her father. This is my Sentiment daughter, Laura—plays a little but don’t sing. This is my Comedy daughter, Kitty—sings a little but don’t play. We all draw a little and compose a little, and none of us have any idea of time or money.’
“这，”斯金波尔先生说，“是我美丽的女儿，阿瑞图莎——像她父亲一样演奏和唱歌。这是我的情感女儿劳拉——会玩一点，但不会唱歌。这是我的喜剧女儿基蒂——会唱歌，但不会玩耍。我们都画一点，作一点，我们都没有时间或金钱的概念。

Mrs. Skimpole sighed, I thought, as if she would have been glad to strike out this item in the family attainments. I also thought that she rather impressed her sigh upon my guardian and that she took every opportunity of throwing in another.
我想，斯金波尔夫人叹了口气，好像她很乐意在家庭成就中剔除这一项。我还认为她给我的监护人留下了深刻的印象，并且她抓住每一个机会又扔了一个。

‘It is pleasant,’ said Mr. Skimpole, turning his sprightly eyes from one to the other of us, ‘and it is whimsically interesting to trace peculiarities in families. In this family we are all children, and I am the youngest.’
“这很令人愉快，”斯金波尔先生说，用他那双明亮的眼睛从我们中的一个人转向另一个人，“追踪家庭的特殊性是一种异想天开的有趣。”在这个家里我们都是孩子，而我是最小的。”

The daughters, who appeared to be very fond of him, were amused by this droll fact, particularly the Comedy daughter.
女儿们似乎很喜欢他，被这个滑稽的事实逗乐了，尤其是喜剧女儿。

‘My dears, it is true,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘is it not? So it is, and so it must be, because like the dogs in the hymn, ‘it is our nature to.’ Now, here is Miss Summerson with a fine administrative capacity and a knowledge of details perfectly surprising. It will sound very strange in Miss Summerson’s ears, I dare say, that we know nothing about chops in this house. But we don’t, not the least. We can’t cook anything whatever. A needle and thread we don’t know how to use. We admire the people who possess the practical wisdom we want, but we don’t quarrel with them. Then why should they quarrel with us? Live and let live, we say to them. Live upon your practical wisdom, and let us live upon you!’
“亲爱的，这是真的，”斯金波尔先生说，“不是吗？确实如此，也必须如此，因为就像赞美诗中的狗一样，“这是我们的本性。”现在，萨默森小姐拥有出色的管理能力和对细节的了解，令人惊讶。我敢说，我们对这所房子里的排骨一无所知，这在萨默森小姐的耳中听起来会很奇怪。但我们不这样做，至少不这样做。我们什么都不能煮。我们不知道如何使用的针和线。我们钦佩那些拥有我们想要的实践智慧的人，但我们不会与他们争吵。那他们为什么要和我们吵架呢？我们对他们说，自己活，也让别人活。靠你的实践智慧生活，让我们靠你生活！

He laughed, but as usual seemed quite candid and really to mean what he said.
他笑了，但像往常一样显得很坦诚，而且是真心实意的。

‘We have sympathy, my roses,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘sympathy for everything. Have we not?’
“我们有同情心，我的玫瑰，”斯金波尔先生说，“对一切都有同情心。”我们没有吗？

‘Oh, yes, papa!’ cried the three daughters.
“噢，是的，爸爸！”三个女儿喊道。

‘In fact, that is our family department,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘in this hurly-burly of life. We are capable of looking on and of being interested, and we DO look on, and we ARE interested. What more can we do? Here is my Beauty daughter, married these three years. Now I dare say her marrying another child, and having two more, was all wrong in point of political economy, but it was very agreeable. We had our little festivities on those occasions and exchanged social ideas. She brought her young husband home one day, and they and their young fledglings have their nest upstairs. I dare say at some time or other Sentiment and Comedy will bring THEIR husbands home and have THEIR nests upstairs too. So we get on, we don’t know how, but somehow.’
“事实上，在这喧嚣的生活中，这就是我们的家庭部门，”斯金波尔先生说。我们有能力旁观并感兴趣，我们确实旁观，而且我们很感兴趣。我们还能做什么？这是我的美丽女儿，结婚三年了。现在我敢说她再娶一个孩子，又生两个孩子，从政治经济学的角度来看是完全错误的，但这是非常令人愉快的。我们在那些场合举行了小型庆祝活动并交换了社会想法。有一天，她把年轻的丈夫带回家，他们和雏鸟在楼上筑巢。我敢说，在某个时候或其他时候，情感和喜剧会把他们的丈夫带回家，并在楼上安家。所以我们继续前进，我们不知道如何，但不知何故。

She looked very young indeed to be the mother of two children, and I could not help pitying both her and them. It was evident that the three daughters had grown up as they could and had had just as little haphazard instruction as qualified them to be their father’s playthings in his idlest hours. His pictorial tastes were consulted, I observed, in their respective styles of wearing their hair, the Beauty daughter being in the classic manner, the Sentiment daughter luxuriant and flowing, and the Comedy daughter in the arch style, with a good deal of sprightly forehead, and vivacious little curls dotted about the corners of her eyes. They were dressed to correspond, though in a most untidy and negligent way.
作为两个孩子的母亲，她看起来确实很年轻，我不禁同情她和他们。显然，这三个女儿已经长大了，也没有受到过多少随意的教育，这使得她们成为了父亲最空闲时的玩物。我观察到，他们各自的发型风格都参考了他的绘画品味，美人女儿古典，情感女儿华丽飘逸，喜剧女儿拱门，额头明朗。 ，活泼的小卷发点缀在她的眼角。他们的着装符合相应的要求，尽管穿着非常邋遢和粗心。

Ada and I conversed with these young ladies and found them wonderfully like their father. In the meanwhile Mr. Jarndyce (who had been rubbing his head to a great extent, and hinted at a change in the wind) talked with Mrs. Skimpole in a corner, where we could not help hearing the chink of money. Mr. Skimpole had previously volunteered to go home with us and had withdrawn to dress himself for the purpose.
艾达和我与这些年轻女士交谈，发现她们非常像她们的父亲。与此同时，贾迪斯先生（他一直在用力地揉着头，暗示着风向的变化）在角落里与斯金波尔夫人交谈，我们不禁听到了钱的叮当声。斯金波尔先生此前曾自愿与我们一起回家，并特意退到一边穿衣服。

‘My roses,’ he said when he came back, ‘take care of mama. She is poorly to-day. By going home with Mr. Jarndyce for a day or two, I shall hear the larks sing and preserve my amiability. It has been tried, you know, and would be tried again if I remained at home.’
“我的玫瑰，”他回来后说道，“照顾妈妈。”她今天身体不太好。和贾迪斯先生回家一两天，我就能听到百灵鸟的歌声，保持我的和蔼可亲。你知道，这已经尝试过了，如果我留在家里，还会再尝试一次。”

‘That bad man!’ said the Comedy daughter.
“那个坏人！”喜剧女儿说道。

‘At the very time when he knew papa was lying ill by his wallflowers, looking at the blue sky,’ Laura complained.
“就在他知道爸爸病倒在壁花旁，看着蓝天的时候，”劳拉抱怨道。

‘And when the smell of hay was in the air!’ said Arethusa.
“当空气中弥漫着干草的味道时！”阿瑞图莎说道。

‘It showed a want of poetry in the man,’ Mr. Skimpole assented, but with perfect good humour. ‘It was coarse. There was an absence of the finer touches of humanity in it! My daughters have taken great offence,’ he explained to us, ‘at an honest man—‘
“这表明这个人缺乏诗意，”斯金波尔先生表示同意，但语气非常幽默。 '这很粗糙。里面缺乏人性的细腻触感！ “我的女儿们非常生气，”他向我们解释道，“一个诚实的人——”

‘Not honest, papa. Impossible!’ they all three protested.
“不诚实，爸爸。不可能！”三人都抗议道。

‘At a rough kind of fellow—a sort of human hedgehog rolled up,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘who is a baker in this neighbourhood and from whom we borrowed a couple of armchairs. We wanted a couple of armchairs, and we hadn’t got them, and therefore of course we looked to a man who HAD got them, to lend them. Well! This morose person lent them, and we wore them out. When they were worn out, he wanted them back. He had them back. He was contented, you will say. Not at all. He objected to their being worn. I reasoned with him, and pointed out his mistake. I said, ‘Can you, at your time of life, be so headstrong, my friend, as to persist that an arm-chair is a thing to put upon a shelf and look at? That it is an object to contemplate, to survey from a distance, to consider from a point of sight? Don’t you KNOW that these arm-chairs were borrowed to be sat upon?’ He was unreasonable and unpersuadable and used intemperate language. Being as patient as I am at this minute, I addressed another appeal to him. I said, ‘Now, my good man, however our business capacities may vary, we are all children of one great mother, Nature. On this blooming summer morning here you see me’ (I was on the sofa) ‘with flowers before me, fruit upon the table, the cloudless sky above me, the air full of fragrance, contemplating Nature. I entreat you, by our common brotherhood, not to interpose between me and a subject so sublime, the absurd figure of an angry baker!’ But he did,’ said Mr. Skimpole, raising his laughing eyes in playful astonishinent; ‘he did interpose that ridiculous figure, and he does, and he will again. And therefore I am very glad to get out of his way and to go home with my friend Jarndyce.’
“这是一个粗暴的家伙——一种卷起来的人类刺猬，”斯金波尔先生说，“他是附近的一名面包师，我们从他那里借了几把扶手椅。我们想要几把扶手椅，但我们没有，因此我们当然会向一个拥有它们的人借用它们。出色地！这个闷闷不乐的人把它们借给了我们，我们把它们穿坏了。当它们疲惫不堪时，他希望它们回来。他把它们拿回来了。你会说，他很满足。一点也不。他反对佩戴它们。我跟他讲道理，指出他的错误。我说：‘我的朋友，在你这个年纪，你能如此任性，坚持认为扶手椅是一个可以放在架子上看的东西吗？它是一个可以沉思、可以从远处观察、可以从一个视点考虑的对象吗？难道你不知道这些扶手椅是借来坐的吗？”他毫无道理，难以说服，而且言语过激。此刻，我像我一样耐心，向他发出了另一次呼吁。我说：‘现在，我的好人，无论我们的业务能力如何，我们都是一位伟大母亲——大自然的孩子。在这个盛夏的早晨，你看到我’（我在沙发上）‘面前鲜花，桌上水果，头顶万里无云，空气中充满芬芳，沉思着大自然。我恳求你，以我们共同的兄弟情谊，不要介入我和一个如此崇高的主题之间，一个愤怒的面包师的荒谬人物！“但他做到了，”斯金波尔先生说，抬起他笑着的眼睛，戏谑而惊讶； “他确实介入了这个荒谬的数字，他确实介入了，而且他还会再次介入。因此，我很高兴能够摆脱他的妨碍，和我的朋友贾迪斯一起回家。”

It seemed to escape his consideration that Mrs. Skimpole and the daughters remained behind to encounter the baker, but this was so old a story to all of them that it had become a matter of course. He took leave of his family with a tenderness as airy and graceful as any other aspect in which he showed himself and rode away with us in perfect harmony of mind. We had an opportunity of seeing through some open doors, as we went downstairs, that his own apartment was a palace to the rest of the house.
他似乎没有考虑到斯金波尔夫人和女儿们留下来迎接面包师，但这对她们所有人来说都是一个老故事了，所以这已经成为理所当然的事了。他以一种轻柔、优雅的态度告别了家人，就像他表现自己的其他方面一样，然后带着完美的心灵与我们一起骑马离开。当我们下楼时，我们有机会透过一些敞开的门看到，他自己的公寓对于房子的其他部分来说就像一座宫殿。

I could have no anticipation, and I had none, that something very startling to me at the moment, and ever memorable to me in what ensued from it, was to happen before this day was out. Our guest was in such spirits on the way home that I could do nothing but listen to him and wonder at him; nor was I alone in this, for Ada yielded to the same fascination. As to my guardian, the wind, which had threatened to become fixed in the east when we left Somers Town, veered completely round before we were a couple of miles from it.
我不可能预料到，我也没有预料到，在这一天结束之前，此刻会发生令我震惊的事情，并且随之而来的事情让我永远难忘。我们的客人在回家的路上兴高采烈，我无能为力，只能听他说话，对他感到惊讶。我并不孤单，因为艾达也同样着迷。至于我的监护人，当我们离开萨默斯镇时，风向有可能转为东风，但在我们离开几英里之前，风就完全转向了。

Whether of questionable childishness or not in any other matters, Mr. Skimpole had a child’s enjoyment of change and bright weather. In no way wearied by his sallies on the road, he was in the drawing-room before any of us; and I heard him at the piano while I was yet looking after my housekeeping, singing refrains of barcaroles and drinking songs, Italian and German, by the score.
不管在其他事情上是否有可疑的幼稚，斯金波尔先生对变化和明朗的天气有着孩子般的享受。他在路上的突袭丝毫没有让他感到厌倦，他比我们任何人都先到了客厅。当我还在打理家务时，我听见他弹奏钢琴，按乐谱唱着船歌和饮酒歌曲，意大利和德国的歌曲。

We were all assembled shortly before dinner, and he was still at the piano idly picking out in his luxurious way little strains of music, and talking between whiles of finishing some sketches of the ruined old Verulam wall to-morrow, which he had begun a year or two ago and had got tired of, when a card was brought in and my guardian read aloud in a surprised voice, ‘Sir Leicester Dedlock!’
晚餐前不久，我们都聚集在一起，他仍然在钢琴前闲着，以他奢华的方式弹奏小曲子，并在完成明天被毁的旧维鲁拉姆墙的一些草图的间隙中交谈，他已经开始了一项工作。一两年前，我已经厌倦了，当一张卡片被带进来时，我的监护人用惊讶的声音大声朗读：“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士！”

The visitor was in the room while it was yet turning round with me and before I had the power to stir. If I had had it, I should have hurried away. I had not even the presence of mind, in my giddiness, to retire to Ada in the window, or to see the window, or to know where it was. I heard my name and found that my guardian was presenting me before I could move to a chair.
当房间还没有和我一起转动时，在我有能力移动之前，访客就已经在房间里了。如果我有的话，我就应该赶紧走开。我什至没有头脑，在我的头晕中，退到窗外的艾达那里，或者看看窗户，或者知道它在哪里。我听到我的名字，发现我的监护人在我移动到椅子上之前就在引导我。

‘Pray be seated, Sir Leicester.’
“请坐下，莱斯特爵士。”

‘Mr. Jarndyce,’ said Sir Leicester in reply as he bowed and seated himself, ‘I do myself the honour of calling here—‘
'先生。詹迪斯，”莱斯特爵士一边鞠躬坐下，一边答道，“我很荣幸能来这里——”

‘You do ME the honour, Sir Leicester.’
“莱斯特爵士，您很荣幸。”

‘Thank you—of calling here on my road from Lincolnshire to express my regret that any cause of complaint, however strong, that I may have against a gentleman who—who is known to you and has been your host, and to whom therefore I will make no farther reference, should have prevented you, still more ladies under your escort and charge, from seeing whatever little there may be to gratify a polite and refined taste at my house, Chesney Wold.’
“谢谢您从林肯郡一路过来，表达我对一位绅士的任何投诉，无论多么强烈的不满，他是您所认识的，也是您的东道主，因此我向他表示遗憾。”不会再做进一步的提及，应该阻止你，还有更多在你的护送和负责下的女士，看到我家切斯尼沃尔德可能有的一点点可以满足礼貌和高雅品味的东西。

‘You are exceedingly obliging, Sir Leicester, and on behalf of those ladies (who are present) and for myself, I thank you very much.’
“莱斯特爵士，您非常乐于助人，我代表（在场的）女士们以及我自己，非常感谢您。”

‘It is possible, Mr. Jarndyce, that the gentleman to whom, for the reasons I have mentioned, I refrain from making further allusion— it is possible, Mr. Jarndyce, that that gentleman may have done me the honour so far to misapprehend my character as to induce you to believe that you would not have been received by my local establishment in Lincolnshire with that urbanity, that courtesy, which its members are instructed to show to all ladies and gentlemen who present themselves at that house. I merely beg to observe, sir, that the fact is the reverse.’
“贾迪斯先生，有可能的是，由于我已经提到的原因，我没有向这位先生作进一步的暗示——贾迪斯先生，有可能那位先生到目前为止已经让我荣幸地误解了他的意思。”我的性格是为了让你相信，我在林肯郡当地的机构不会以那种彬彬有礼、礼貌的态度接待你，而我的成员被要求向所有来到那所房子的女士们和先生们表现出这种礼貌。先生，我只是想指出，事实恰恰相反。

My guardian delicately dismissed this remark without making any verbal answer.
我的监护人巧妙地驳回了这一说法，没有做出任何口头答复。

‘It has given me pain, Mr. Jarndyce,’ Sir Leicester weightily proceeded. ‘I assure you, sir, it has given—me—pain—to learn from the housekeeper at Chesney Wold that a gentleman who was in your company in that part of the county, and who would appear to possess a cultivated taste for the fine arts, was likewise deterred by some such cause from examining the family pictures with that leisure, that attention, that care, which he might have desired to bestow upon them and which some of them might possibly have repaid.’ Here he produced a card and read, with much gravity and a little trouble, through his eye-glass, ‘Mr. Hirrold—Herald— Harold—Skampling—Skumpling—I beg your pardon—Skimpole.’
“这让我很痛苦，贾迪斯先生，”莱斯特爵士沉重地继续说道。 “我向您保证，先生，从切斯尼沃尔德的管家那里得知，在县里的那个地方，有一位与您同行的绅士，而且他似乎对精致的事物有着高雅的品味，这让我感到痛苦。艺术界的人，同样也因为这样的原因而不敢以那种闲暇、那种关注、那种关怀来检查家庭照片，而他可能希望给予他们这些，而他们中的一些人可能已经回报了。”他在这里拿出一张卡片，然后透过他的眼镜，一本正经地读着，有点费劲，“先生”。希罗德——先驱——哈罗德——斯坎普林——斯坎普林——对不起——斯坎波尔。

‘This is Mr. Harold Skimpole,’ said my guardian, evidently surprised.
“这是哈罗德·斯基波尔先生，”我的监护人显然很惊讶地说。

‘Oh!’ exclaimed Sir Leicester, ‘I am happy to meet Mr. Skimpole and to have the opportunity of tendering my personal regrets. I hope, sir, that when you again find yourself in my part of the county, you will be under no similar sense of restraint.’
“哦！”莱斯特爵士惊呼道，“我很高兴见到斯金波尔先生，并有机会表达我个人的遗憾。先生，我希望当您再次来到我所在的县城时，您将不再受到类似的束缚。

‘You are very obliging, Sir Leicester Dedlock. So encouraged, I shall certainly give myself the pleasure and advantage of another visit to your beautiful house. The owners of such places as Chesney Wold,’ said Mr. Skimpole with his usual happy and easy air, ‘are public benefactors. They are good enough to maintain a number of delightful objects for the admiration and pleasure of us poor men; and not to reap all the admiration and pleasure that they yield is to be ungrateful to our benefactors.’
“你非常乐于助人，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士。如此鼓舞，我一定会给自己带来再次参观您美丽的房子的乐趣和优势。像切斯尼沃尔德这样的地方的主人，”斯金波尔先生用他一贯的快乐和轻松的神情说道，“都是公共捐助者。他们足以维持许多令人愉快的物品，让我们这些穷人钦佩和高兴。不获得他们所带来的所有钦佩和快乐就是对我们的恩人忘恩负义。

Sir Leicester seemed to approve of this sentiment highly. ‘An artist, sir?’
莱斯特爵士似乎非常赞同这种观点。 “一位艺术家，先生？”

‘No,’ returned Mr. Skimpole. ‘A perfectly idle man. A mere amateur.’
“不，”斯金波尔先生回答道。 “一个十足的闲人。”只是一个业余爱好者。

Sir Leicester seemed to approve of this even more. He hoped he might have the good fortune to be at Chesney Wold when Mr. Skimpole next came down into Lincolnshire. Mr. Skimpole professed himself much flattered and honoured.
莱斯特爵士似乎更加赞同这一点。他希望当斯金波尔先生下次来到林肯郡时，他能有幸来到切斯尼沃尔德。斯金波尔先生表示自己非常受宠若惊，也深感荣幸。

‘Mr. Skimpole mentioned,’ pursued Sir Leicester, addressing himself again to my guardian, ‘mentioned to the house-keeper, who, as he may have observed, is an old and attached retainer of the family—‘
'先生。斯金波尔提到，”莱斯特爵士继续说道，再次向我的监护人讲话，“向管家提到，正如他可能已经观察到的那样，她是这个家庭的一位年老的、依附的家臣——”

(“That is, when I walked through the house the other day, on the occasion of my going down to visit Miss Summerson and Miss Clare,’ Mr. Skimpole airily explained to us.)
（“也就是说，那天我在拜访萨默森小姐和克莱尔小姐时穿过这栋房子时，”斯金波尔先生轻描淡写地向我们解释道。）

‘—That the friend with whom he had formerly been staying there was Mr. Jarndyce.’ Sir Leicester bowed to the bearer of that name. ‘And hence I became aware of the circumstance for which I have professed my regret. That this should have occurred to any gentleman, Mr. Jarndyce, but especially a gentleman formerly known to Lady Dedlock, and indeed claiming some distant connexion with her, and for whom (as I learn from my Lady herself) she entertains a high respect, does, I assure you, give—me—pain.’
“——以前和他一起住在那里的朋友是贾迪斯先生。”莱斯特爵士向持有这个名字的人鞠了一躬。 ‘因此，我意识到了我所表示遗憾的情况。贾迪斯先生，任何一位绅士都会想到这一点，尤其是戴德洛克夫人以前认识的一位绅士，他确实声称与她有某种遥远的联系，而且（据我从夫人本人那里得知）她对他怀有崇高的敬意，我向你保证，确实会给——我——带来痛苦。”

‘Pray say no more about it, Sir Leicester,’ returned my guardian. ‘I am very sensible, as I am sure we all are, of your consideration. Indeed the mistake was mine, and I ought to apologize for it.’
“请不要再说这件事了，莱斯特爵士，”我的监护人回答道。 “我非常明智，我相信我们大家都是如此，很理解您的考虑。事实上，这个错误是我的，我应该为此道歉。

I had not once looked up. I had not seen the visitor and had not even appeared to myself to hear the conversation. It surprises me to find that I can recall it, for it seemed to make no impression on me as it passed. I heard them speaking, but my mind was so confused and my instinctive avoidance of this gentleman made his presence so distressing to me that I thought I understood nothing, through the rushing in my head and the beating of my heart.
我一次也没有抬头。我没有看到这位访客，甚至没有听到他们的谈话。我惊讶地发现我竟然能回忆起它，因为它过去时似乎没有给我留下任何印象。我听到他们在说话，但我的思绪如此混乱，我本能地回避这位先生，让他的存在让我感到如此痛苦，以至于我以为我什么也听不懂，因为我的头脑在奔腾，我的心脏在跳动。

‘I mentioned the subject to Lady Dedlock,’ said Sir Leicester, rising, ‘and my Lady informed me that she had had the pleasure of exchanging a few words with Mr. Jarndyce and his wards on the occasion of an accidental meeting during their sojourn in the vicinity. Permit me, Mr. Jarndyce, to repeat to yourself, and to these ladies, the assurance I have already tendered to Mr. Skimpole. Circumstances undoubtedly prevent my saying that it would afford me any gratification to hear that Mr. Boythorn had favoured my house with his presence, but those circumstances are confined to that gentleman himself and do not extend beyond him.’
“我向戴德洛克夫人提到了这个话题，”莱斯特爵士站了起来，“夫人告诉我，在贾迪斯先生和他的受监护人逗留期间的一次偶然会面中，她很高兴与他们交谈了几句话。”在附近。贾迪斯先生，请允许我向您本人和这些女士重复一遍我已经向斯金波尔先生作出的保证。毫无疑问，情况不允许我说，如果博伊索恩先生在场，我会感到很高兴，但这些情况仅限于这位先生本人，不会超出他的范围。

‘You know my old opinion of him,’ said Mr. Skimpole, lightly appealing to us. ‘An amiable bull who is detenined to make every colour scarlet!’
“你知道我以前对他的看法，”斯金波尔先生轻轻地向我们恳求道。 “一头和蔼可亲的公牛，注定会让每种颜色都变成猩红色！”

Sir Leicester Dedlock coughed as if he could not possibly hear another word in reference to such an individual and took his leave with great ceremony and politeness. I got to my own room with all possible speed and remained there until I had recovered my selfcommand. It had been very much disturbed, but I was thankful to find when I went downstairs again that they only rallied me for having been shy and mute before the great Lincolnshire baronet.
莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士咳嗽了一声，好像他再也听不到提到这样一个人的词了，然后以隆重的仪式和礼貌离开了。我以最快的速度回到了自己的房间，一直呆在那里，直到我恢复了自制力。我感到非常不安，但我很庆幸地发现，当我再次下楼时，他们只是因为我在伟大的林肯郡准男爵面前害羞和沉默而重新振作起来。

By that time I had made up my mind that the period was come when I must tell my guardian what I knew. The possibility of my being brought into contact with my mother, of my being taken to her house, even of Mr. Skimpole’s, however distantly associated with me, receiving kindnesses and obligations from her husband, was so painful that I felt I could no longer guide myself without his assistance.
那时我已经下定决心，是时候我必须告诉我的监护人我所知道的事情了。我可能会与我的母亲接触，我可能会被带到她的家里，甚至是斯金波尔先生的家，无论与我的关系有多么遥远，接受她丈夫的善意和义务，我感到如此痛苦，以至于我觉得我再也不能无需他的帮助即可引导自己。

When we had retired for the night, and Ada and I had had our usual talk in our pretty room, I went out at my door again and sought my guardian among his books. I knew he always read at that hour, and as I drew near I saw the light shining out into the passage from his reading-lamp.
当我们晚上休息时，艾达和我在我们漂亮的房间里进行了我们平常的谈话，我再次走出家门，在他的书中寻找我的监护人。我知道他总是在那个时间读书，当我走近时，我看到灯光从他的台灯照进走廊。

‘May I come in, guardian?’
“我可以进来吗，监护人？”

‘Surely, little woman. What’s the matter?’
“当然可以，小女人。怎么了？'

‘Nothing is the matter. I thought I would like to take this quiet time of saying a word to you about myself.’
‘没什么事。我想我想利用这个安静的时间向你介绍一下我自己。

He put a chair for me, shut his book, and put it by, and turned his kind attentive face towards me. I could not help observing that it wore that curious expression I had observed in it once before—on that night when he had said that he was in no trouble which I could readily understand.
他给我放了一张椅子，合上书，放在一边，然后把他那张慈祥专注的脸转向我。我情不自禁地发现，它脸上带着我以前曾经观察过的那种奇怪的表情——那天晚上，当他说他没有遇到麻烦时，我很容易理解这一点。

‘What concerns you, my dear Esther,’ said he, ‘concerns us all. You cannot be more ready to speak than I am to hear.’
“亲爱的埃丝特，你所关心的事情，”他说，“也关系到我们所有人。”你不可能比我更愿意倾听。

‘I know that, guardian. But I have such need of your advice and support. Oh! You don’t know how much need I have to-night.’
“我知道，监护人。但我非常需要你的建议和支持。哦！你不知道今晚我有多么需要。

He looked unprepared for my being so earnest, and even a little alarmed.
对于我如此认真，他显得有些措手不及，甚至还有点惊慌。

‘Or how anxious I have been to speak to you,’ said I, ‘ever since the visitor was here to-day.’
“或者说，自从客人今天来到这里以来，我就一直渴望和你说话，”我说。

‘The visitor, my dear! Sir Leicester Dedlock?’
‘亲爱的，有客人来了！莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

He folded his arms and sat looking at me with an air of the profoundest astonishment, awaiting what I should say next. I did not know how to prepare him.
他抱起双臂，坐着，带着极其惊讶的神情看着我，等待我接下来要说的话。我不知道如何让他做好准备。

‘Why, Esther,’ said he, breaking into a smile, ‘our visitor and you are the two last persons on earth I should have thought of connecting together!’
“哎呀，艾丝特，”他突然微笑起来，“我们的访客和你是地球上最后两个我最不想联系在一起的人！”

‘Oh, yes, guardian, I know it. And I too, but a little while ago.’
“哦，是的，监护人，我知道了。我也是，但不久前。

The smile passed from his face, and he became graver than before. He crossed to the door to see that it was shut (but I had seen to that) and resumed his seat before me.
笑容从他脸上消失，他的表情比之前更加严肃。他走到门口，看到门关着（但我已经看到了），然后又回到了我面前的座位上。

‘Guardian,’ said I, ‘do you remensher, when we were overtaken by the thunder-storm, Lady Dedlock’s speaking to you of her sister?’
“守护者，”我说，“你还记得，当我们被雷暴袭击时，戴德洛克夫人向你谈到了她的妹妹吗？”

‘Of course. Of course I do.’
'当然。我当然是了。'

‘And reminding you that she and her sister had differed, had gone their several ways?’
“并提醒你，她和她的妹妹是不同的，已经分道扬镳了？”

‘Of course.’
'当然。'

‘Why did they separate, guardian?’
“他们为什么分开，监护人？”

His face quite altered as he looked at me. ‘My child, what questions are these! I never knew. No one but themselves ever did know, I believe. Who could tell what the secrets of those two handsome and proud women were! You have seen Lady Dedlock. If you had ever seen her sister, you would know her to have been as resolute and haughty as she.’
当他看着我时，他的脸色发生了很大的变化。 ‘我的孩子，这都是什么问题啊！我一直都不知道。我相信，除了他们自己，没有人知道。谁能知道这两个俊美高傲的女人到底藏着什么秘密！你见过德洛克夫人。如果你见过她姐姐，你就会知道她和她一样刚毅和傲慢。

‘Oh, guardian, I have seen her many and many a time!’
“噢，守护者，我已经见过她很多很多次了！”

‘Seen her?’
“看到她了吗？”

He paused a little, biting his lip. ‘Then, Esther, when you spoke to me long ago of Boythorn, and when I told you that he was all but married once, and that the lady did not die, but died to him, and that that time had had its influence on his later life—did you know it all, and know who the lady was?’
他停顿了一下，咬着嘴唇。 “然后，埃丝特，当你很久以前对我谈到博伊索恩时，当我告诉你他几乎结过一次婚，那位女士并没有死，而是对他死了，那段时间对他产生了影响。他后来的生活——你知道这一切吗？知道那位女士是谁吗？

‘No, guardian,’ I returned, fearful of the light that dimly broke upon me. ‘Nor do I know yet.’
“不，监护人，”我回答道，害怕照在我身上的微光。 “我也不知道。”

‘Lady Dedlock’s sister.’
“戴德洛克夫人的妹妹。”

‘And why,’ I could scarcely ask him, ‘why, guardian, pray tell me why were THEY parted?’
“为什么，”我几乎无法问他，“为什么，监护人，请告诉我他们为什么分开？”

‘It was her act, and she kept its motives in her inflexible heart. He afterwards did conjecture (but it was mere conjecture) that some injury which her haughty spirit had received in her cause of quarrel with her sister had wounded her beyond all reason, but she wrote him that from the date of that letter she died to him—as in literal truth she did—and that the resolution was exacted from her by her knowledge of his proud temper and his strained sense of honour, which were both her nature too. In consideration for those master points in him, and even in consideration for them in herself, she made the sacrifice, she said, and would live in it and die in it. She did both, I fear; certainly he never saw her, never heard of her from that hour. Nor did any one.’
“这是她的行为，她将其动机藏在她顽固的心里。后来他确实推测（但这只是推测），她傲慢的精神因与姐姐争吵而受到了某种伤害，这种伤害已经无缘无故地伤害了她，但她写信给他，从那封信之日起，她对他来说已经死了——正如她确实所做的那样——她之所以做出这样的决定，是因为她了解他骄傲的脾气和紧张的荣誉感，而这也是她的本性。她说，考虑到他的那些大师点，甚至考虑到她自己的那些大师点，她做出了牺牲，并且将在其中生，在其中死。我担心她两者都做到了。当然，从那时起他就再也没有见过她，也没有听说过她。也没有人这样做。

‘Oh, guardian, what have I done!’ I cried, giving way to my grief; ‘what sorrow have I innocently caused!’
“哦，监护人，我做了什么！”我哭喊着，屈服于悲伤。 “我无意中造成了多么大的悲伤啊！”

‘You caused, Esther?’
“是你造成的，埃丝特？”

‘Yes, guardian. Innocently, but most surely. That secluded sister is my first remembrance.’
‘是的，监护人。无辜的，但最肯定的是。那个与世隔绝的姐姐是我的第一个记忆。

‘No, no!’ he cried, starting.
“不，不！”他惊叫道。

‘Yes, guardian, yes! And HER sister is my mother!’
‘是的，监护人，是的！她的妹妹是我的母亲！

I would have told him all my mother’s letter, but he would not hear it then. He spoke so tenderly and wisely to me, and he put so plainly before me all I had myself imperfectly thought and hoped in my better state of mind, that, penetrated as I had been with fervent gratitude towards him through so many years, I believed I had never loved him so dearly, never thanked him in my heart so fully, as I did that night. And when he had taken me to my room and kissed me at the door, and when at last I lay down to sleep, my thought was how could I ever be busy enough, how could I ever be good enough, how in my little way could I ever hope to be forgetful enough of myself, devoted enough to him, and useful enough to others, to show him how I blessed and honoured him.
我本想把我母亲的信全部告诉他，但他不会听。他对我说话如此温柔而明智，他如此清楚地将我自己不完美的想法和希望以更好的心态呈现在我面前，多年来我一直对他怀着热烈的感激之情，我相信我从来没有像那天晚上那样深深地爱过他，也从未在心里如此衷心地感谢过他。当他带我到我的房间并在门口亲吻我，当我最终躺下睡觉时，我的想法是我如何才能足够忙碌，我如何才能足够好，如何以我的小方式我是否希望能够忘记自己，对他足够忠诚，对他人足够有用，向他展示我是如何祝福和尊重他的。

CHAPTER XLIV
第四十四章


The Letter and the Answer
信与答复

My guardian called me into his room next morning, and then I told him what had been left untold on the previous night. There was nothing to be done, he said, but to keep the secret and to avoid another such encounter as that of yesterday. He understood my feeling and entirely shared it. He charged himself even with restraining Mr. Skimpole from improving his opportunity. One person whom he need not name to me, it was not now possible for him to advise or help. He wished it were, but no such thing could be. If her mistrust of the lawyer whom she had mentioned were wellfounded, which he scarcely doubted, he dreaded discovery. He knew something of him, both by sight and by reputation, and it was certain that he was a dangerous man. Whatever happened, he repeatedly impressed upon me with anxious affection and kindness, I was as innocent of as himself and as unable to influence.
第二天早上，我的监护人把我叫到他的房间，然后我告诉了他前一天晚上未说的事情。他说，除了保守秘密并避免再次发生像昨天那样的遭遇之外，别无他法。他理解我的感受并且完全同意我的感受。他甚至责备自己阻止斯金波尔先生改善自己的机会。他不需要向我透露一个人的名字，但他现在不可能提供建议或帮助。他希望如此，但这是不可能的。如果她对她提到的律师的不信任是有充分根据的（他几乎不怀疑这一点），那么他害怕被发现。他从外表和名声上都对他有所了解，并且可以肯定他是一个危险的人。无论发生什么事，他一再给我留下焦灼的感情和友善的印象，我和他一样天真无邪，无法影响。

‘Nor do I understand,’ said he, ‘that any doubts tend towards you, my dear. Much suspicion may exist without that connexion.’
“我也不明白，”他说，“任何怀疑都会针对你，亲爱的。如果没有这种联系，可能还会存在很多怀疑。

‘With the lawyer,’ I returned. ‘But two other persons have come into my mind since I have been anxious. Then I told him all about Mr. Guppy, who I feared might have had his vague surmises when I little understood his meaning, but in whose silence after our last interview I expressed perfect confidence.
“和律师一起。”我回答道。 “但是自从我一直焦虑以来，我的脑海里浮现出了另外两个人。然后我告诉他关于古比先生的一切，我担心当我不太理解他的意思时，他可能会做出模糊的猜测，但在我们上次采访后的沉默中，我表达了完全的信心。

‘Well,’ said my guardian. ‘Then we may dismiss him for the present. Who is the other?’
“好吧，”我的监护人说。 ‘那么我们可以暂时解雇他了。另一个是谁？

I called to his recollection the French maid and the eager offer of herself she had made to me.
我让他回忆起那个法国女仆，以及她向我提出的热切求婚。

‘Ha!’ he returned thoughtfully. ‘That is a more alarming person than the clerk. But after all, my dear, it was but seeking for a new service. She had seen you and Ada a little while before, and it was natural that you should come into her head. She merely proposed herself for your maid, you know. She did nothing more.’
“哈！”他若有所思地回答道。 ‘那是一个比店员更令人震惊的人。但毕竟，亲爱的，这只是在寻求新的服务。她不久前见过你和艾达，很自然地你就会出现在她的脑海里。你知道，她只是向你的女仆求婚而已。她什么也没做。

‘Her manner was strange,’ said I.
“她的态度很奇怪，”我说。

‘Yes, and her manner was strange when she took her shoes off and showed that cool relish for a walk that might have ended in her death-bed,’ said my guardian. ‘It would be useless self-distress and torment to reckon up such chances and possibilities. There are very few harmless circumstances that would not seem full of perilous meaning, so considered. Be hopeful, little woman. You can be nothing better than yourself; be that, through this knowledge, as you were before you had it. It is the best you can do for everybody’s sake. I, sharing the secret with you—‘
“是的，当她脱掉鞋子并表现出对散步的冷静兴趣时，她的态度很奇怪，而这可能会在她临死前结束。”我的监护人说。 “考虑这样的机会和可能性，自我苦恼和折磨是没有用的。”考虑到这一点，几乎没有什么无害的情况看起来不充满危险的意义。要有希望，小女人。你不可能比你自己更好；通过这种知识，就像你在拥有它之前一样。这是你为每个人都能做的最好的事情。我，与你分享这个秘密——”

‘And lightening it, guardian, so much,’ said I.
“守护者，减轻了它的负担，”我说道。

‘—will be attentive to what passes in that family, so far as I can observe it from my distance. And if the time should come when I can stretch out a hand to render the least service to one whom it is better not to name even here, I will not fail to do it for her dear daughter’s sake.’
“——只要我能从远处观察到，我就会留意那个家庭里发生的事情。如果有一天我能伸出援手，为一个最好不要在这里提到名字的人提供哪怕一点点的服务，我也不会不为了她亲爱的女儿而这样做。

I thanked him with my whole heart. What could I ever do but thank him! I was going out at the door when he asked me to stay a moment. Quickly turning round, I saw that same expression on his face again; and all at once, I don’t know how, it flashed upon me as a new and far-off possibility that I understood it.
我全心全意地感谢他。除了感谢他我还能做什么！我正要出门，他让我稍等一下。迅速转过身，我再次看到他脸上同样的表情；突然间，我不知道怎么的，我突然意识到一种新的、遥远的可能性，我明白了。

‘My dear Esther,’ said my guardian, ‘I have long had something in my thoughts that I have wished to say to you.’
“我亲爱的艾丝特，”我的监护人说，“我一直有一些话想对你说。”

‘Indeed?’
'的确？'

‘I have had some difficulty in approaching it, and I still have. I should wish it to be so deliberately said, and so deliberately considered. Would you object to my writing it?’
“我在接近这个目标时遇到了一些困难，现在仍然如此。我希望如此刻意地说出它，并如此刻意地考虑它。你会反对我写它吗？

‘Dear guardian, how could I object to your writing anything for ME to read?’
“亲爱的监护人，我怎么能反对你写任何东西给我读呢？”

‘Then see, my love,’ said he with his cheery smile, ‘am I at this moment quite as plain and easy—do I seem as open, as honest and old-fashioned—as I am at any time?’
“那么，亲爱的，”他带着愉快的微笑说道，“此时此刻的我是不是像任何时候一样坦率、随和——我看起来是不是那么开放、诚实和守旧？”

I answered in all earnestness, ‘Quite.’ With the strictest truth, for his momentary hesitation was gone (it had not lasted a minute), and his fine, sensible, cordial, sterling manner was restored.
我很认真地回答：“是的。”说的是最严格的事实，因为他一时的犹豫消失了（没有持续一分钟），恢复了他那优雅、明智、亲切、纯正的态度。

‘Do I look as if I suppressed anything, meant anything but what I said, had any reservation at all, no matter what?’ said he with his bright clear eyes on mine.
“我看起来好像压抑了什么，除了我所说的以外什么都没有，无论发生什么，我都没有任何保留吗？”他用明亮清澈的眼睛看着我说道。

I answered, most assuredly he did not.
我回答说，他肯定没有。

‘Can you fully trust me, and thoroughly rely on what I profess, Esther?’
“你能完全信任我，并完全依赖我所宣称的吗，埃丝特？”

‘Most thoroughly,’ said I with my whole heart.
“非常彻底。”我全心全意地说。

‘My dear girl,’ returned my guardian, ‘give me your hand.’
“我亲爱的女孩，”我的监护人回答道，“把你的手给我。”

He took it in his, holding me lightly with his arm, and looking down into my face with the same genuine freshness and faithfulness of manner—the old protecting manner which had made that house my home in a moment—said, ‘You have wrought changes in me, little woman, since the winter day in the stage-coach. First and last you have done me a world of good since that time.’
他接过它，用手臂轻轻地抱着我，低头看着我的脸，带着同样真诚的新鲜感和忠诚的态度——那种古老的保护态度，使那所房子立刻成为我的家——说，“你已经做了自从冬日在驿站马车里以来，我这个小女人就发生了变化。从那时起，你首先也是最后一次为我做了很多好事。

‘Ah, guardian, what have you done for me since that time!’
“啊，守护者，从那时起你为我做了什么！”

‘But,’ said he, ‘that is not to be remembered now.’
“但是，”他说，“现在已经不记得了。”

‘It never can be forgotten.’
“它永远不会被忘记。”

‘Yes, Esther,’ said he with a gentle seriousness, ‘it is to be forgotten now, to be forgotten for a while. You are only to remember now that nothing can change me as you know me. Can you feel quite assured of that, my dear?’
“是的，埃丝特，”他温和而严肃地说，“现在就应该忘记，暂时忘记。”你现在只需记住，正如你所了解的那样，没有什么可以改变我。亲爱的，你能对此感到十分放心吗？

‘I can, and I do,’ I said.
“我可以，而且我愿意，”我说。

‘That’s much,’ he answered. ‘That’s everything. But I must not take that at a word. I will not write this something in my thoughts until you have quite resolved within yourself that nothing can change me as you know me. If you doubt that in the least degree, I will never write it. If you are sure of that, on good consideration, send Charley to me this night week—‘for the letter.’ But if you are not quite certain, never send. Mind, I trust to your truth, in this thing as in everything. If you are not quite certain on that one point, never send!’
“就这么多了，”他回答道。 ‘就是这样。但我决不能只相信这一点。我不会在我的想法中写下这些，直到你内心下定决心，没有什么可以改变你所了解的我。如果你有哪怕一点点的怀疑，我就永远不会写它。如果你确定这一点，那么，经过深思熟虑，请在本周晚上将查理发送给我——“为了这封信”。但如果你不太确定，就不要发送。请注意，我相信你的真理，无论是在这件事上还是在所有事情上。如果您对这一点不太确定，请不要发送！

‘Guardian,’ said I, ‘I am already certain, I can no more be changed in that conviction than you can be changed towards me. I shall send Charley for the letter.’
“守护者，”我说，“我已经确定，我的信念无法改变，就像你对我的态度无法改变一样。”我会派查理去取信。

He shook my hand and said no more. Nor was any more said in reference to this conversation, either by him or me, through the whole week. When the appointed night came, I said to Charley as soon as I was alone, ‘Go and knock at Mr. Jarndyce’s door, Charley, and say you have come from me—‘for the letter.’’ Charley went up the stairs, and down the stairs, and along the passages—the zigzag way about the old-fashioned house seemed very long in my listening ears that night—and so came back, along the passages, and down the stairs, and up the stairs, and brought the letter. ‘Lay it on the table, Charley,’ said I. So Charley laid it on the table and went to bed, and I sat looking at it without taking it up, thinking of many things.
他握了握我的手，没有再说什么。整个星期，无论是他还是我，都没有再提及这次谈话。当约定的夜晚到来时，我一独自一人就对查理说：“查理，去敲一下贾迪斯先生的门，说你是我来的——‘为了这封信。’”查理走上楼梯，下了楼梯，沿着过道——那天晚上，在我听着的耳朵里，那条老式房子周围的曲折道路似乎很长——于是回来，沿着过道，下楼梯，上楼梯，带着这封信。 “把它放在桌子上，查理，”我说。于是查理把它放在桌子上，然后上床睡觉了，我坐在那儿看着它，没有拿起它，想着很多事情。

I began with my overshadowed childhood, and passed through those timid days to the heavy time when my aunt lay dead, with her resolute face so cold and set, and when I was more solitary with Mrs. Rachael than if I had had no one in the world to speak to or to look at. I passed to the altered days when I was so blest as to find friends in all around me, and to be beloved. I came to the time when I first saw my dear girl and was received into that sisterly affection which was the grace and beauty of my life. I recalled the first bright gleam of welcome which had shone out of those very windows upon our expectant faces on that cold bright night, and which had never paled. I lived my happy life there over again, I went through my illness and recovery, I thought of myself so altered and of those around me so unchanged; and all this happiness shone like a light from one central figure, represented before me by the letter on the table.
我从我阴暗的童年开始，经历了那些胆怯的日子，一直到我姨妈去世的那段沉重的时光，她那坚定的脸是如此冷漠而坚定，而我和雷切尔夫人在一起比没有人在我身边时更加孤独。可以交谈或观察的世界。我经历了改变的日子，那时我很幸运能在周围找到朋友，并被爱着。当我第一次见到我亲爱的女孩时，我就被那种姐妹般的感情所接纳，这是我生命中的优雅和美丽。我记得在那个寒冷而明亮的夜晚，第一道明亮的欢迎光芒从那些窗户射出，照在我们满怀期待的脸上，而且从未褪色。我在那里重新过上了幸福的生活，经历了生病和康复，我认为自己发生了很大的变化，而周围的人却没有改变；所有这些幸福就像来自一个中心人物的光芒一样闪耀，在我面前，桌上的信代表了这一点。

I opened it and read it. It was so impressive in its love for me, and in the unselfish caution it gave me, and the consideration it showed for me in every word, that my eyes were too often blinded to read much at a time. But I read it through three times before I laid it down. I had thought beforehand that I knew its purport, and I did. It asked me, would I be the mistress of Bleak House.
我打开它并阅读了它。它对我的爱是如此令人印象深刻，它给我的无私的谨慎，以及它在每句话中对我的关怀，使我的眼睛常常被蒙蔽，无法一次读太多书。但我还是把它读了三遍才放下。我事先以为我知道它的要旨，而且我确实知道。它问我，我会成为《荒凉山庄》的女主人吗？

It was not a love letter, though it expressed so much love, but was written just as he would at any time have spoken to me. I saw his face, and heard his voice, and felt the influence of his kind protecting manner in every line. It addressed me as if our places were reversed, as if all the good deeds had been mine and all the feelings they had awakened his. It dwelt on my being young, and he past the prime of life; on his having attained a ripe age, while I was a child; on his writing to me with a silvered head, and knowing all this so well as to set it in full before me for mature deliberation. It told me that I would gain nothing by such a marriage and lose nothing by rejecting it, for no new relation could enhance the tenderness in which he held me, and whatever my decision was, he was certain it would be right. But he had considered this step anew since our late confidence and had decided on taking it, if it only served to show me through one poor instance that the whole world would readily unite to falsify the stern prediction of my childhood. I was the last to know what happiness I could bestow upon him, but of that he said no more, for I was always to remember that I owed him nothing and that he was my debtor, and for very much. He had often thought of our future, and foreseeing that the time must come, and fearing that it might come soon, when Ada (now very nearly of age) would leave us, and when our present mode of life must be broken up, had become accustomed to reflect on this proposal. Thus he made it. If I felt that I could ever give him the best right he could have to be my protector, and if I felt that I could happily and justly become the dear companion of his remaining life, superior to all lighter chances and changes than death, even then he could not have me bind myself irrevocably while this letter was yet so new to me, but even then I must have ample time for reconsideration. In that case, or in the opposite case, let him be unchanged in his old relation, in his old manner, in the old name by which I called him. And as to his bright Dame Durden and little housekeeper, she would ever be the same, he knew.
这不是一封情书，尽管它表达了如此多的爱，但它的写作方式就像他随时对我说话一样。我看到了他的脸，听到了他的声音，感受到了他的每一行仁慈的保护态度的影响。它对我说，好像我们的位置颠倒了，好像所有的善行都是我的，而它们的所有感情都唤醒了他的。写的是我还年轻，而他已经过了壮年；当我还是个孩子的时候，他已经成年了；他用银头写信给我，他对这一切了如指掌，并把它完整地摆在我面前，供我成熟思考。它告诉我，这样的婚姻不会给我带来任何好处，拒绝它也不会失去什么，因为没有任何新的关系可以增强他对我的温柔，无论我的决定是什么，他都确信它是正确的。但自从我们迟来的信心之后，他重新考虑了这一步骤，并决定采取这一步骤，只要它能通过一个可怜的例子向我表明，整个世界将很容易联合起来，推翻我童年时的严厉预言。我是最后一个知道我能给他带来什么幸福的人，但对此他没有再说什么，因为我总是记得我不欠他什么，而他是我的债务人，而且欠我很多。他经常想到我们的未来，预见到这一时刻一定会到来，并担心它很快就会到来，那时艾达（现在已经快成年了）将离开我们，我们目前的生活方式必须被打破，习惯于思考这个建议。他就这样做到了。 如果我觉得我可以给他最好的权利，他就可以成为我的保护者，如果我觉得我可以快乐而公正地成为他余生的亲爱伴侣，胜过所有比死亡更轻的机会和变化，甚至那么，当这封信对我来说还很陌生时，他就不能让我不可撤销地约束自己，但即便如此，我也必须有足够的时间重新考虑。在这种情况下，或者在相反的情况下，让他保持旧的关系，保持他的旧方式，保持我称呼他的旧名字。至于他那聪明的杜登夫人和小管家，她也永远不会变，他知道。

This was the substance of the letter, written throughout with a justice and a dignity as if he were indeed my responsible guardian impartially representing the proposal of a friend against whom in his integrity he stated the full case.
这就是这封信的实质内容，写得充满正义和尊严，就好像他确实是我负责任的监护人，公正地代表了一位朋友的提议，他以自己的正直陈述了整个案情。

But he did not hint to me that when I had been better looking he had had this same proceeding in his thoughts and had refrained from it. That when my old face was gone from me, and I had no attractions, he could love me just as well as in my fairer days. That the discovery of my birth gave him no shock. That his generosity rose above my disfigurement and my inheritance of shame. That the more I stood in need of such fidelity, the more firmly I might trust in him to the last.
但他并没有向我暗示，当我看起来更好时，他也曾有过同样的想法，但没有这样做。当我的旧容貌消失，我不再有吸引力时，他可以像我年轻时一样爱我。我出生的消息并没有让他感到震惊。他的慷慨超越了我的毁容和我继承的耻辱。我越需要这种忠诚，我就越能坚定地信任他直到最后。

But I knew it, I knew it well now. It came upon me as the close of the benignant history I had been pursuing, and I felt that I had but one thing to do. To devote my life to his happiness was to thank him poorly, and what had I wished for the other night but some new means of thanking him?
但我知道，我现在很清楚了。当我一直追求的良性历史结束时，我觉得我只有一件事要做。把我的一生奉献给他的幸福就是对他的谢意，而那天晚上我除了想一些新的方式来感谢他之外，还希望什么？

Still I cried very much, not only in the fullness of my heart after reading the letter, not only in the strangeness of the prospect— for it was strange though I had expected the contents—but as if something for which there was no name or distinct idea were indefinitely lost to me. I was very happy, very thankful, very hopeful; but I cried very much.
尽管如此，我还是哭得很厉害，不仅是因为读完这封信后内心的充实，不仅因为前景的陌生——因为虽然我已经预料到了内容，但它很奇怪——而且好像有什么东西没有名字或没有名字。我无限期地失去了独特的想法。我很高兴，很感恩，很希望；但我哭得很厉害。

By and by I went to my old glass. My eyes were red and swollen, and I said, ‘Oh, Esther, Esther, can that be you!’ I am afraid the face in the glass was going to cry again at this reproach, but I held up my finger at it, and it stopped.
渐渐地，我走向我的旧玻璃。我的眼睛又红又肿，我说：“哦，艾丝特，艾丝特，那是你吗！”我担心镜子里的脸会因为这种责备而再次哭泣，但我举起了手指，然后它就停了。

‘That is more like the composed look you comforted me with, my dear, when you showed me such a change!’ said I, beginning to let down my hair. ‘When you are mistress of Bleak House, you are to be as cheerful as a bird. In fact, you are always to be cheerful; so let us begin for once and for all.’
“亲爱的，当你向我展示这样的变化时，这更像是你安慰我的镇定神情！”我说道，开始放下头发。 ‘当你是荒凉山庄的女主人时，你要像小鸟一样快乐。事实上，你应该永远保持快乐；所以让我们一劳永逸地开始吧。

I went on with my hair now, quite comfortably. I sobbed a little still, but that was because I had been crying, not because I was crying then.
我现在继续梳理头发，很舒服。我仍然抽泣着，但那是因为我一直在哭，而不是因为我当时就哭了。

‘And so Esther, my dear, you are happy for life. Happy with your best friends, happy in your old home, happy in the power of doing a great deal of good, and happy in the undeserved love of the best of men.’
“所以埃丝特，亲爱的，你一生幸福。”与你最好的朋友在一起快乐，在你的老家快乐，因有能力做很多善事而快乐，并因最好的人不值得的爱而快乐。

I thought, all at once, if my guardian had married some one else, how should I have felt, and what should I have done! That would have been a change indeed. It presented my life in such a new and blank form that I rang my housekeeping keys and gave them a kiss before I laid them down in their basket again.
我突然想到，如果我的监护人嫁给了别人，我会有什么感受，我应该做什么！这确实是一个改变。它以一种全新的、空白的形式呈现了我的生活，我按响了家务钥匙，吻了它们，然后又把它们放进了篮子里。

Then I went on to think, as I dressed my hair before the glass, how often had I considered within myself that the deep traces of my illness and the circumstances of my birth were only new reasons why I should be busy, busy, busy—useful, amiable, serviceable, in all honest, unpretending ways. This was a good time, to be sure, to sit down morbidly and cry! As to its seeming at all strange to me at first (if that were any excuse for crying, which it was not) that I was one day to be the mistress of Bleak House, why should it seem strange? Other people had thought of such things, if I had not. ‘Don’t you remember, my plain dear,’ I asked myself, looking at the glass, ‘what Mrs. Woodcourt said before those scars were there about your marrying—‘
然后，当我在镜子前梳理头发时，我继续想，我有多少次在内心深处想到，我的疾病的深刻痕迹和我出生的环境只是我应该忙碌、忙碌、忙碌的新理由——有用的、和蔼可亲的、有用的，以所有诚实、朴实的方式。确实，这是一个病态地坐下来哭泣的好时机！至于我有一天会成为荒凉山庄的女主人，一开始对我来说似乎很奇怪（如果这是哭泣的借口，但事实并非如此），为什么会显得奇怪呢？如果我没有的话，其他人也想到过这些事情。 “你不记得吗，我亲爱的，”我看着镜子问自己，“在那些伤疤出现之前，伍德考特夫人说过关于你结婚的话——”

Perhaps the name brought them to my remembrance. The dried remains of the flowers. It would be better not to keep them now. They had only been preserved in memory of something wholly past and gone, but it would be better not to keep them now.
也许这个名字让我想起了他们。花干后的残骸。现在最好不要保留它们。保留它们只是为了纪念一些完全过去和消失的事情，但现在最好不要保留它们。

They were in a book, and it happened to be in the next room—our sitting-room, dividing Ada’s chamber from mine. I took a candle and went softly in to fetch it from its shelf. After I had it in my hand, I saw my beautiful darling, through the open door, lying asleep, and I stole in to kiss her.
它们在一本书里，而它恰好在隔壁房间——我们的起居室，将艾达的房间和我的房间分开。我拿起一支蜡烛，轻轻走进去，从架子上取出它。当我把它拿在手里后，我透过敞开的门看到了我美丽的宝贝，躺在床上睡着了，我偷偷走进去吻她。

It was weak in me, I know, and I could have no reason for crying; but I dropped a tear upon her dear face, and another, and another. Weaker than that, I took the withered flowers out and put them for a moment to her lips. I thought about her love for Richard, though, indeed, the flowers had nothing to do with that. Then I took them into my own room and burned them at the candle, and they were dust in an instant.
我知道，我的内心很脆弱，我没有理由哭泣。但我在她亲爱的脸上滴下一滴泪，一滴，又一滴。比这更虚弱的是，我把枯萎的花拿出来，放在她的唇边一会儿。我想到了她对理查德的爱，尽管事实上，鲜花与此无关。然后我把它们拿到自己的房间里，用蜡烛把它们烧掉，它们瞬间就化成了灰尘。

On entering the breakfast-room next morning, I found my guardian just as usual, quite as frank, as open, and free. There being not the least constraint in his manner, there was none (or I think there was none) in mine. I was with him several times in the course of the morning, in and out, when there was no one there, and I thought it not unlikely that he might speak to me about the letter, but he did not say a word.
第二天早上走进早餐室时，我发现我的监护人和往常一样，一样坦率、一样开放、一样自由。他的举止没有丝毫约束，但我的举止却没有（或者我认为没有）。早上我和他在一起好几次，进进出出，当时那里没有人，我认为他不太可能跟我谈论这封信，但他什么也没说。

So, on the next morning, and the next, and for at least a week, over which time Mr. Skimpole prolonged his stay. I expected, every day, that my guardian might speak to me about the letter, but he never did.
就这样，第二天早上，然后是下一个早上，至少一个星期，斯金波尔先生延长了他的逗留时间。我每天都期待我的监护人会和我谈论这封信，但他从来没有这样做。

I thought then, growing uneasy, that I ought to write an answer. I tried over and over again in my own room at night, but I could not write an answer that at all began like a good answer, so I thought each night I would wait one more day. And I waited seven more days, and he never said a word.
我当时觉得我应该写一个答案，心里越来越不安。晚上我在自己的房间里一遍又一遍地尝试，但我写不出一个开头像个好答案的答案，所以我每天晚上都想再等一天。我又等了七天，他还是一句话也没说。

At last, Mr. Skimpole having departed, we three were one afternoon going out for a ride; and I, being dressed before Ada and going down, came upon my guardian, with his back towards me, standing at the drawing-room window looking out.
最后，斯金波尔先生离开了，我们三个下午出去兜风。我在艾达面前穿好衣服，下楼时，遇到了我的监护人，他背对着我，站在客厅的窗户边向外看。

He turned on my coming in and said, smiling, ‘Aye, it’s you, little woman, is it?’ and looked out again.
当我进来时，他转身微笑着说道：“是的，是你，小女人，是吗？”然后又向外望去。

I had made up my mind to speak to him now. In short, I had come down on purpose. ‘Guardian,’ I said, rather hesitating and trembling, ‘when would you like to have the answer to the letter Charley came for?’
我现在已经决定要跟他说话了。简而言之，我是故意下来的。 “监护人，”我有些犹豫和颤抖地说，“你想什么时候得到查理来取信的答复？”

‘When it’s ready, my dear,’ he replied.
“准备好了，亲爱的，”他回答道。

‘I think it is ready,’ said I.
“我想已经准备好了，”我说。

‘Is Charley to bring it?’ he asked pleasantly.
“查理会带来吗？”他愉快地问道。

‘No. I have brought it myself, guardian,’ I returned.
'不。我自己带来的，监护人。”我回答道。

I put my two arms round his neck and kissed him, and he said was this the mistress of Bleak House, and I said yes; and it made no difference presently, and we all went out together, and I said nothing to my precious pet about it.
我用两只手臂搂住他的脖子，吻了他，他说这就是荒凉山庄的女主人，我说是的；眼下这没什么区别了，我们一起出去了，我没有对我的宝贝宠物说这件事。

CHAPTER XLV
第四十五章


In Trust
信任

One morning when I had done jingling about with my baskets of keys, as my beauty and I were walking round and round the garden I happened to turn my eyes towards the house and saw a long thin shadow going in which looked like Mr. Vholes. Ada had been telling me only that morning of her hopes that Richard might exhaust his ardour in the Chancery suit by being so very earnest in it; and therefore, not to damp my dear girl’s spirits, I said nothing about Mr. Vholes’s shadow.
一天早上，当我把一篮子钥匙叮当作响后，当我和我的美人在花园里绕着一圈又一圈散步时，我碰巧把目光转向房子，看到一个细长的影子走进来，看起来像沃尔斯先生。那天早上，艾达才告诉我，她希望理查德能在大法官诉讼中表现得如此认真，从而耗尽他的热情。因此，为了不打击我亲爱的女儿的情绪，我没有提及沃尔斯先生的影子。

Presently came Charley, lightly winding among the bushes and tripping along the paths, as rosy and pretty as one of Flora’s attendants instead of my maid, saying, ‘Oh, if you please, miss, would you step and speak to Mr. Jarndyce!’
不久查理就来了，他轻轻地在灌木丛中蜿蜒，沿着小路绊倒，脸色红润而美丽，就像弗洛拉的侍从而不是我的女仆，他说：“哦，小姐，如果您愿意的话，请您走上前去和贾迪斯先生说话吧！” '

It was one of Charley’s peculiarities that whenever she was charged with a message she always began to deliver it as soon as she beheld, at any distance, the person for whom it was intended. Therefore I saw Charley asking me in her usual form of words to ‘step and speak’ to Mr. Jarndyce long before I heard her. And when I did hear her, she had said it so often that she was out of breath.
查莉的一个特点是，每当她接到消息时，只要她在远处看到消息的传达者，她总是会立即开始传递消息。因此，早在我听到查理的声音之前，我就看到查理以她惯常的方式要求我“上前与贾迪斯先生说话”。当我真正听到她的声音时，她说这句话的次数太多了，以至于她上气不接下气。

I told Ada I would make haste back and inquired of Charley as we went in whether there was not a gentleman with Mr. Jarndyce. To which Charley, whose grammar, I confess to my shame, never did any credit to my educational powers, replied, ‘Yes, miss. Him as come down in the country with Mr. Richard.’
我告诉艾达我会赶紧回来，并在我们进去时询问查利是否有一位绅士和贾迪斯先生在一起。对于查理的语法，我承认我的耻辱，从来没有为我的教育能力做出任何贡献，他​​回答说：“是的，小姐。他和理查德先生一起来到乡下。

A more complete contrast than my guardian and Mr. Vholes I suppose there could not be. I found them looking at one another across a table, the one so open and the other so close, the one so broad and upright and the other so narrow and stooping, the one giving out what he had to say in such a rich ringing voice and the other keeping it in in such a cold-blooded, gasping, fish-like manner that I thought I never had seen two people so unmatched.
我想不可能有比我的监护人和沃尔斯先生更鲜明的对比了。我发现他们隔着一张桌子互相看着对方，一个如此开放，另一个如此接近，一个如此宽阔和直立，另一个如此狭窄和弯腰，一个用如此丰富而响亮的声音说出了他要说的话另一个则以冷血、气喘吁吁、鱼般的方式保持沉默，我想我从来没有见过两个人如此无与伦比。

‘You know Mr. Vholes, my dear,’ said my guardian. Not with the greatest urbanity, I must say.
“你认识沃尔斯先生，亲爱的，”我的监护人说。我必须说，这并不是最有礼貌的。

Mr. Vholes rose, gloved and buttoned up as usual, and seated himself again, just as he had seated himself beside Richard in the gig. Not having Richard to look at, he looked straight before him.
沃尔斯先生站了起来，像往常一样戴上手套，扣好纽扣，然后又坐下来，就像他坐在平底艇里理查德旁边一样。他没有看理查德，而是直视前方。

‘Mr. Vholes,’ said my guardian, eyeing his black figure as if he were a bird of ill omen, ‘has brought an ugly report of our most unfortunate Rick.’ Laying a marked emphasis on ‘most unfortunate’ as if the words were rather descriptive of his connexion with Mr. Vholes.
'先生。 “沃尔斯，”我的监护人看着他的黑色身影，仿佛他是一只不祥之鸟，“带来了一份关于我们最不幸的瑞克的丑陋报告。”他与沃尔斯先生的关系

I sat down between them; Mr. Vholes remained immovable, except that he secretly picked at one of the red pimples on his yellow face with his black glove.
我坐在他们中间；沃尔斯先生一动不动，只是用黑色手套偷偷地抠了黄色脸上的一颗红疙瘩。

‘And as Rick and you are happily good friends, I should like to know,’ said my guardian, ‘what you think, my dear. Would you be so good as to—as to speak up, Mr. Vholes?’
“因为里克和你是幸福的好朋友，我想知道，”我的监护人说，“你的想法是什么，亲爱的。”沃尔斯先生，您愿意——敢于大声说出来吗？

Doing anything but that, Mr. Vholes observed, ‘I have been saying that I have reason to know, Miss Summerson, as Mr. C.’s professional adviser, that Mr. C.’s circumstances are at the present moment in an embarrassed state. Not so much in point of amount as owing to the peculiar and pressing nature of liabilities Mr. C. has incurred and the means he has of liquidating or meeting the same. I have staved off many little matters for Mr. C., but there is a limit to staving off, and we have reached it. I have made some advances out of pocket to accommodate these unpleasantnesses, but I necessarily look to being repaid, for I do not pretend to be a man of capital, and I have a father to support in the Vale of Taunton, besides striving to realize some little independence for three dear girls at home. My apprehension is, Mr. C.’s circumstances being such, lest it should end in his obtaining leave to part with his commission, which at all events is desirable to be made known to his connexions.’
除此以外，沃尔斯先生观察到，“我一直在说，萨默森小姐，作为 C. 先生的专业顾问，我有理由知道，C. 先生目前的情况正处于危险之中。”尴尬的状态。与其说是金额，不如说是由于 C. 先生所承担的债务的特殊性和紧迫性以及他拥有清算或偿还债务的手段。我为C.先生回避了很多小事，但是回避是有限度的，而我们已经达到了这个限度。我已经自掏腰包预支了一些费用来应对这些不愉快的事情，但我必然希望得到回报，因为我不会假装自己是一个有资本的人，而且我除了努力实现汤顿谷的生活之外，还有一个父亲要供养。家里三个亲爱的女孩有一点独立的能力。我担心的是，C. 先生的情况如此，以免最终导致他获得许可放弃他的佣金，无论如何，最好让他的亲戚知道这一点。

Mr. Vholes, who had looked at me while speaking, here emerged into the silence he could hardly be said to have broken, so stifled was his tone, and looked before him again.
沃尔斯先生在说话时一直看着我，现在他的语气如此压抑，现在出现在他几乎不能说打破的沉默中，再次看着他的面前。

‘Imagine the poor fellow without even his present resource,’ said my guardian to me. ‘Yet what can I do? You know him, Esther. He would never accept of help from me now. To offer it or hint at it would be to drive him to an extremity, if nothing else did.’
“想象一下这个可怜的家伙连他现在的资源都没有，”我的监护人对我说。 ‘可是我能做什么呢？你认识他，埃丝特。他现在绝对不会接受我的帮助了。如果没有其他办法的话，提供或暗示这一点就会把他逼到绝境。

Mr. Vholes hereupon addressed me again.
沃尔斯先生于是再次对我讲话。

‘What Mr. Jarndyce remarks, miss, is no doubt the case, and is the difficulty. I do not see that anything is to be done, I do not say that anything is to be done. Far from it. I merely come down here under the seal of confidence and mention it in order that everything may be openly carried on and that it may not be said afterwards that everything was not openly carried on. My wish is that everything should be openly carried on. I desire to leave a good name behind me. If I consulted merely my own interests with Mr. C., I should not be here. So insurmountable, as you must well know, would be his objections. This is not a professional attendance. This can he charged to nobody. I have no interest in it except as a member of society and a father—AND a son,’ said Mr. Vholes, who had nearly forgotten that point.
“小姐，贾迪斯先生所说的毫无疑问是事实，也是困难所在。我没有看到需要做任何事情，我也没有说需要做任何事情。离得很远。我只是带着信心来到这里，提一下，以便一切都可以公开进行，以免事后说一切都没有公开进行。我的愿望是一切都应该公开进行。我渴望在身后留下一个好名字。如果我只是向 C. 先生咨询我自己的利益，我就不应该在这里。你一定很清楚，他的反对意见是难以克服的。这不是专业出席。他可以向任何人收取这个费用。 “除了作为社会成员、父亲和儿子，我对此没有任何兴趣。”弗霍尔斯先生说，他几乎忘记了这一点。

It appeared to us that Mr. Vholes said neither more nor less than the truth in intimating that he sought to divide the responsibility, such as it was, of knowing Richard’s situation. I could only suggest that I should go down to Deal, where Richard was then stationed, and see him, and try if it were possible to avert the worst. Without consulting Mr. Vholes on this point, I took my guardian aside to propose it, while Mr. Vholes gauntly stalked to the fire and warmed his funeral gloves.
在我们看来，沃尔斯先生暗示他试图分担了解理查德处境的责任，这句话一点也不假。我只能建议我应该去迪尔（理查德当时驻扎的地方）见见他，并尝试是否可以避免最坏的情况发生。在这一点上，我没有咨询沃尔斯先生，而是把我的监护人拉到一边提出了这个建议，而沃尔斯先生则面容憔悴地走到火边，温暖了他的葬礼手套。

The fatigue of the journey formed an immediate objection on my guardian’s part, but as I saw he had no other, and as I was only too happy to go, I got his consent. We had then merely to dispose of Mr. Vholes.
旅途的疲劳立即引起了我监护人的反对，但我看到他没有别的办法，而且我也很乐意去，所以我得到了他的同意。那么我们只需处理掉沃尔斯先生就可以了。

‘Well, sir,’ said Mr. Jarndyce, ‘Miss Summerson will communicate with Mr. Carstone, and you can only hope that his position may be yet retrievable. You will allow me to order you lunch after your journey, sir.’
“好吧，先生，”贾迪斯先生说，“萨默森小姐将会与卡斯通先生沟通，你只能希望他的职位还能恢复。”先生，您可以允许我在您旅途结束后为您订午餐。”

‘I thank you, Mr. Jarndyce,’ said Mr. Vholes, putting out his long black sleeve to check the ringing of the bell, ‘not any. I thank you, no, not a morsel. My digestion is much impaired, and I am but a poor knife and fork at any time. If I was to partake of solid food at this period of the day, I don’t know what the consequences might be. Everything having been openly carried on, sir, I will now with your permission take my leave.’
“谢谢你，贾迪斯先生，”沃尔斯先生说着，伸出黑色长袖，检查铃声，“没有。”我谢谢你，不，一点也不。我的消化能力很差，任何时候我都只是一把可怜的刀叉。如果我在一天中的这个时候吃固体食物，我不知道会产生什么后果。一切都已公开进行，先生，在您的允许下，我现在要离开了。”

‘And I would that you could take your leave, and we could all take our leave, Mr. Vholes,’ returned my guardian bitterly, ‘of a cause you know of.’
“我希望你可以离开，我们都可以离开，沃尔斯先生，”我的监护人痛苦地回答道，“出于你知道的原因。”

Mr. Vholes, whose black dye was so deep from head to foot that it had quite steamed before the fire, diffusing a very unpleasant perfume, made a short one-sided inclination of his head from the neck and slowly shook it.
沃尔斯先生从头到脚的黑色染料很深，以至于在火前已经冒出蒸汽，散发出一种非常难闻的香水味，他从脖子上稍微偏了一下头，慢慢地摇了摇头。

‘We whose ambition it is to be looked upon in the light of respectable practitioners, sir, can but put our shoulders to the wheel. We do it, sir. At least, I do it myself; and I wish to think well of my professional brethren, one and all. You are sensible of an obligation not to refer to me, miss, in communicating with Mr. C.?’
‘先生，我们的志向是要以受人尊敬的实践者的眼光来看待，我们只能把我们的肩膀放在方向盘上。我们做到了，先生。至少，我自己是这么做的；我希望对我的职业弟兄们有好感。小姐，在与 C 先生交流时，您是否意识到自己有义务不提及我？

I said I would be careful not to do it.
我说我会小心不要这样做。

‘Just so, miss. Good morning. Mr. Jarndyce, good morning, sir.’ Mr. Vholes put his dead glove, which scarcely seemed to have any hand in it, on my fingers, and then on my guardian’s fingers, and took his long thin shadow away. I thought of it on the outside of the coach, passing over all the sunny landscape between us and London, chilling the seed in the ground as it glided along.
「正是如此，小姐。早上好。贾迪斯先生，早上好，先生。”沃尔斯先生把他那只几乎没有人手放进去的手套戴在我的手指上，然后戴在我监护人的手指上，然后把他又长又瘦的影子拿开。我在车外想到了这一点，掠过我们和伦敦之间所有阳光明媚的风景，当种子滑行时，让土地里的种子感到寒冷。

Of course it became necessary to tell Ada where I was going and why I was going, and of course she was anxious and distressed. But she was too true to Richard to say anything but words of pity and words of excuse, and in a more loving spirit still—my dear devoted girl!—she wrote him a long letter, of which I took charge.
当然有必要告诉艾达我要去哪里以及为什么要去，她当然感到焦虑和苦恼。但她对理查德太忠诚了，除了怜悯和借口之外，她不会说任何别的话，而且仍然以一种更加慈爱的精神——我亲爱的忠诚的女孩！——她给他写了一封长信，由我负责。

Charley was to be my travelling companion, though I am sure I wanted none and would willingly have left her at home. We all went to London that afternoon, and finding two places in the mail, secured them. At our usual bed-time, Charley and I were rolling away seaward with the Kentish letters.
查理将成为我的旅伴，尽管我确信我不想要任何人，并且愿意把她留在家里。那天下午我们都去了伦敦，在邮件中找到了两个地方，确保了它们。在我们平常的就寝时间，查理和我带着肯特郡的信件向大海驶去。

It was a night’s journey in those coach times, but we had the mail to ourselves and did not find the night very tedious. It passed with me as I suppose it would with most people under such circumstances. At one while my journey looked hopeful, and at another hopeless. Now I thought I should do some good, and now I wondered how I could ever have supposed so. Now it seemed one of the most reasonable things in the world that I should have come, and now one of the most unreasonable. In what state I should find Richard, what I should say to him, and what he would say to me occupied my mind by turns with these two states of feeling; and the wheels seemed to play one tune (to which the burden of my guardian’s letter set itself) over and over again all night.
在当时的长途汽车时代，这是一个晚上的旅程，但我们有自己的邮件，并不觉得这个夜晚很乏味。我想，在这种情况下，大多数人也会这样。我的旅程有时看起来充满希望，有时却又充满希望。现在我想我应该做点好事，现在我想知道我怎么会这么想。现在看来，我应该来的事情是世界上最合理的事情之一，但现在却是最不合理的事情之一。我应该在什么状态下找到理查德，我应该对他说什么，他会对我说什么，这两种感觉轮番占据我的脑海；整个晚上，轮子似乎一遍又一遍地演奏着一种曲调（我监护人的信的负担本身就是这样的）。

At last we came into the narrow streets of Deal, and very gloomy they were upon a raw misty morning. The long flat beach, with its little irregular houses, wooden and brick, and its litter of capstans, and great boats, and sheds, and bare upright poles with tackle and blocks, and loose gravelly waste places overgrown with grass and weeds, wore as dull an appearance as any place I ever saw. The sea was heaving under a thick white fog; and nothing else was moving but a few early ropemakers, who, with the yarn twisted round their bodies, looked as if, tired of their present state of existence, they were spinning themselves into cordage.
最后，我们来到了迪尔的狭窄街道，在一个薄雾弥漫的早晨，街道显得非常阴暗。长长平坦的海滩上，有一些不规则的小房子，木制和砖砌的，还有绞盘的垃​​圾，大船，棚屋，光秃秃的直立杆子，上面有滑车和木块，还有长满青草和杂草的松散的砾石荒地，外观和我见过的任何地方一样暗淡。大海在浓浓的白雾下波涛汹涌。除了一些早期的制绳工外，没有其他东西在移动，他们把纱线缠绕在身上，看起来好像厌倦了目前的存在状态，正在将自己纺成绳索。

But when we got into a warm room in an excellent hotel and sat down, comfortably washed and dressed, to an early breakfast (for it was too late to think of going to bed), Deal began to look more cheerful. Our little room was like a ship’s cabin, and that delighted Charley very much. Then the fog began to rise like a curtain, and numbers of ships that we had had no idea were near appeared. I don’t know how many sail the waiter told us were then lying in the downs. Some of these vessels were of grand size—one was a large Indiaman just come home; and when the sun shone through the clouds, maktng silvery pools in the dark sea, the way in which these ships brightened, and shadowed, and changed, amid a bustle of boats pulling off from the shore to them and from them to the shore, and a general life and motion in themselves and everything around them, was most beautiful.
但当我们走进一家很棒的酒店温暖的房间，舒服地洗漱、穿好衣服，坐下来吃早饭时（因为已经太晚了，想睡觉了），迪尔开始显得更加高兴了。我们的小房间就像一个船舱，这让查理非常高兴。然后雾开始像幕布一样升起，许多我们不知道的船只出现在附近。我不知道服务员告诉我们当时有多少帆躺在丘陵中。其中一些船只体型巨大——一艘是一艘刚刚回国的印度船；另一艘是一艘刚回国的印度船。当阳光透过云层照射进来，在黑暗的大海中形成银色的水潭时，这些船只的方式在熙熙攘攘的船只中从岸边驶向它们，又从它们驶向岸边，变得明亮、阴影和变化，他们自己以及周围的一切的总体生活和运动是最美丽的。

The large Indiaman was our great attraction because she had come into the downs in the night. She was surrounded by boats, and we said how glad the people on board of her must be to come ashore. Charley was curious, too, about the voyage, and about the heat in India, and the serpents and the tigers; and as she picked up such information much faster than grammar, I told her what I knew on those points. I told her, too, how people in such voyages were sometimes wrecked and cast on rocks, where they were saved by the intrepidity and humanity of one man. And Charley asking how that could be, I told her how we knew at home of such a case.
这位身材高大的印度人对我们来说非常有吸引力，因为她是在夜间进入丘陵的。她被小船包围着，我们说船上的人上岸一定很高兴。查理也对这次航行、印度的酷热、蛇和老虎感到好奇。由于她掌握这些信息的速度比语法快得多，我告诉她我在这些方面所知道的。我还告诉她，在这样的航行中，人们有时会遭遇失事并被抛在岩石上，但一个人的无畏和人性将他们救了出来。查理问这是怎么回事，我告诉她我们在家里是怎么知道这样的案子的。

I had thought of sending Richard a note saying I was there, but it seemed so much better to go to him without preparation. As he lived in barracks I was a little doubtful whether this was feasible, but we went out to reconnoitre. Peeping in at the gate of the barrack-yard, we found everything very quiet at that time in the morning, and I asked a sergeant standing on the guardhousesteps where he lived. He sent a man before to show me, who went up some bare stairs, and knocked with his knuckles at a door, and left us.
我本来想给理查德发一张便条，说我在那里，但似乎没有准备就去找他要好得多。由于他住在军营里，我有点怀疑这是否可行，但我们还是出去侦察了。早上，我们从军营门口往里看，发现一切都很安静，我就向站在门卫台阶上的一名中士打听他住的地方。他之前派了一个人来给我看，他爬上一些光秃秃的楼梯，用指关节敲了敲门，然后就离开了我们。

‘Now then!’ cried Richard from within. So I left Charley in the little passage, and going on to the half-open door, said, ‘Can I come in, Richard? It’s only Dame Durden.’
“那么现在！”理查德在里面喊道。于是我把查理留在了小过道里，然后走到半开的门前说道：“理查德，我可以进来吗？”这只是德登夫人。

He was writing at a table, with a great confusion of clothes, tin cases, books, boots, brushes, and portmanteaus strewn all about the floor. He was only half dressed—in plain clothes, I observed, not in uniform—and his hair was unbrushed, and he looked as wild as his room. All this I saw after he had heartily welcomed me and I was seated near him, for he started upon hearing my voice and caught me in his arms in a moment. Dear Richard! He was ever the same to me. Down to—ah, poor poor fellow!—to the end, he never received me but with something of his old merry boyish manner.
他正在一张桌子上写字，地板上乱七八糟地散落着衣服、锡盒、书籍、靴子、刷子和手提箱。他只穿了半身衣服——据我观察，他穿着便衣，没有穿制服——头发也没梳，看起来和他的房间一样狂野。当他热情地欢迎我，我坐在他旁边时，我看到了这一切，因为他听到我的声音，立刻把我抱在怀里。亲爱的理查德！他对我来说永远都是一样的。直到——啊，可怜的家伙！——到最后，他除了带着他那种快乐的孩子气的态度之外，从来没有接待过我。

‘Good heaven, my dear little woman,’ said he, ‘how do you come here? Who could have thought of seeing you! Nothing the matter? Ada is well?’
“天哪，我亲爱的小女人，”他说，“你怎么到这里来了？谁能想到见到你！没什么事吗？艾达还好吗？

‘Quite well. Lovelier than ever, Richard!’
'很好。比以前更可爱了，理查德！”

‘Ah!’ he said, lenning back in his chair. ‘My poor cousin! I was writing to you, Esther.’
“啊！”他说着，向后靠回椅子上。 ‘我可怜的表弟！我正在写信给你，埃斯特。

So worn and haggard as he looked, even in the fullness of his handsome youth, leaning back in his chair and crushing the closely written sheet of paper in his hand!
他靠在椅子上，手里捏碎了写得密密麻麻的纸，尽管他正值英俊的青春年华，但看上去还是那么憔悴憔悴！

‘Have you been at the trouble of writing all that, and am I not to read it after all?’ I asked.
“你费尽心思写下这些，难道我就不读了吗？”我问。

‘Oh, my dear,’ he returned with a hopeless gesture. ‘You may read it in the whole room. It is all over here.’
“哦，亲爱的，”他做出绝望的手势。 “你可以在整个房间里读它。一切都在这里。

I mildly entreated him not to be despondent. I told him that I had heard by chance of his being in difficulty and had come to consult with him what could best be done.
我温和地恳求他不要沮丧。我告诉他，我偶然听说他遇到了困难，所以来和他商量一下最好的办法。

‘Like you, Esther, but useless, and so NOT like you!’ said he with a melancholy smile. ‘I am away on leave this day—should have been gone in another hour—and that is to smooth it over, for my selling out. Well! Let bygones be bygones. So this calling follows the rest. I only want to have been in the church to have made the round of all the professions.’
“像你一样，埃丝特，但没用，所以不像你！”他忧郁地微笑着说道。 “我今天休假了——本来应该再过一个小时就走——这是为了平息事情，因为我的卖光了。出色地！过去的就让它过去吧。所以这个呼召紧接着其余的呼召。我只想在教堂里完成所有的职业。

‘Richard,’ I urged, ‘it is not so hopeless as that?’
“理查德，”我催促道，“事情没有那么绝望吧？”

‘Esther,’ he returned, ‘it is indeed. I am just so near disgrace as that those who are put in authority over me (as the catechism goes) would far rather be without me than with me. And they are right. Apart from debts and duns and all such drawbacks, I am not fit even for this employment. I have no care, no mind, no heart, no soul, but for one thing. Why, if this bubble hadn’t broken now,’ he said, tearing the letter he had written into fragments and moodily casting them away, by driblets, ‘how could I have gone abroad? I must have been ordered abroad, but how could I have gone? How could I, with my experience of that thing, trust even Vholes unless I was at his back!’
“以斯帖，”他回答道，“确实如此。”我简直就是耻辱，以至于那些对我拥有权威的人（正如教义问答所言）宁愿离开我，也不愿和我在一起。他们是对的。除了债务、催款和所有这些缺点之外，我什至不适合这份工作。我没有关心，没有头脑，没有心，没有灵魂，但只有一件事。为什么，如果这个泡沫现在没有破裂，”他说着，将自己写的信撕成碎片，心情郁闷地把它们一滴一滴地扔掉，“我怎么能出国呢？我一定是被命令出国了，但我怎么可能去呢？以我对那件事的经历，我怎么可能相信Vholes，除非我在他背后！”

I suppose he knew by my face what I was about to say, but he caught the hand I had laid upon his arm and touched my own lips with it to prevent me from going on.
我想他从我的脸上就知道我要说什么，但他抓住了我放在他手臂上的手，并用它碰了碰我的嘴唇，阻止我继续说下去。

‘No, Dame Durden! Two subjects I forbid—must forbid. The first is John Jarndyce. The second, you know what. Call it madness, and I tell you I can’t help it now, and can’t be sane. But it is no such thing; it is the one object I have to pursue. It is a pity I ever was prevailed upon to turn out of my road for any other. It would be wisdom to abandon it now, after all the time, anxiety, and pains I have bestowed upon it! Oh, yes, true wisdom. It would be very agreeable, too, to some people; but I never will.’
“不，德登夫人！有两个话题我禁止——必须禁止。第一个是约翰·贾迪斯。第二个，你知道是什么。称之为疯狂，我告诉你我现在无法控制，无法保持理智。但事实并非如此。这是我必须追求的唯一目标。遗憾的是，我曾经被说服离开我的道路而选择其他道路。在我为它付出了那么多的时间、焦虑和痛苦之后，现在就放弃它是明智的！哦，是的，真正的智慧。对于某些人来说，这也是非常令人愉快的。但我永远不会。

He was in that mood in which I thought it best not to increase his determination (if anything could increase it) by opposing him. I took out Ada’s letter and put it in his hand.
他当时的心情是，我认为最好不要通过反对他来增强他的决心（如果有什么可以增强的话）。我拿出艾达的信，放在他手里。

‘Am I to read it now?’ he asked.
“我现在可以读吗？”他问道。

As I told him yes, he laid it on the table, and resting his head upon his hand, began. He had not read far when he rested his head upon his two hands—to hide his face from me. In a little while he rose as if the light were bad and went to the window. He finished reading it there, with his back towards me, and after he had finished and had folded it up, stood there for some minutes with the letter in his hand. When he came back to his chair, I saw tears in his eyes.
当我告诉他是的时，他把它放在桌子上，然后把头靠在手上，开始了。他还没读多久，就把头枕在两只手上——以遮挡我的脸。过了一会儿，他起身，仿佛光线不好，走到窗前。他背对着我读完了这封信，读完后把它折好，手里拿着信，在那里站了几分钟。当他回到椅子上时，我看到他眼里含着泪水。

‘Of course, Esther, you know what she says here?’ He spoke in a softened voice and kissed the letter as he asked me.
“当然，埃丝特，你知道她在这里说什么吗？”他用柔和的声音问道，一边吻着那封信，一边问我。

‘Yes, Richard.’
“是的，理查德。”

‘Offers me,’ he went on, tapping his foot upon the floor, ‘the little inheritance she is certain of so soon—just as little and as much as I have wasted—and begs and prays me to take it, set myself right with it, and remain in the service.’
“向我提供，”他继续说，用脚轻拍地板，“她这么快就确定了一点遗产——就像我浪费的一样少和一样多——恳求并祈祷我接受它，让自己改正过来。”带着它，并继续服役。

‘I know your welfare to be the dearest wish of her heart,’ said I. ‘And, oh, my dear Richard, Ada’s is a noble heart.’
“我知道你的幸福是她内心最深切的愿望，”我说，“而且，哦，亲爱的理查德，艾达有一颗崇高的心。”

‘I am sure it is. I—I wish I was dead!’
“我确信是这样。我——我希望我死了！

He went back to the window, and laying his arm across it, leaned his head down on his arm. It greatly affected me to see him so, but I hoped he might become more yielding, and I remained silent. My experience was very limited; I was not at all prepared for his rousing himself out of this emotion to a new sense of injury.
他回到窗边，将手臂放在窗上，把头靠在手臂上。看到他这样，我心里很受触动，但我希望他能变得更顺从一些，所以我保持沉默。我的经验非常有限；我完全没有准备好让他从这种情绪中醒来，产生新的伤害感。

‘And this is the heart that the same John Jarndyce, who is not otherwise to be mentioned between us, stepped in to estrange from me,’ said he indignantly. ‘And the dear girl makes me this generous offer from under the same John Jarndyce’s roof, and with the same John Jarndyce’s gracious consent and connivance, I dare say, as a new means of buying me off.’
“这正是约翰·贾迪斯（John Jardyce）介入，与我疏远的原因，”他愤怒地说。 “亲爱的女孩在同一个约翰·贾迪斯的屋檐下向我提出了这个慷慨的提议，并且得到了约翰·贾迪斯的慷慨同意和纵容，我敢说，这是一种收买我的新手段。”

‘Richard!’ I cried out, rising hastily. ‘I will not hear you say such shameful words!’ I was very angry with him indeed, for the first time in my life, but it only lasted a moment. When I saw his worn young face looking at me as if he were sorry, I put my hand on his shoulder and said, ‘If you please, my dear Richard, do not speak in such a tone to me. Consider!’
“理查德！”我喊道，急忙站起来。 “我不会听你说这么丢人的话！”我确实对他很生气，这是我有生以来第一次，但这种愤怒只持续了一会儿。当我看到他疲惫的年轻脸庞看着我，仿佛很抱歉时，我把手放在他的肩膀上说：“亲爱的理查德，请不要用这样的语气对我说话。”考虑！'

He blamed himself exceedingly and told me in the most generous manner that he had been very wrong and that he begged my pardon a thousand times. At that I laughed, but trembled a little too, for I was rather fluttered after being so fiery.
他非常自责，并以最慷慨的方式告诉我，他错了，他恳求我原谅一千次。我听了笑了，但也有点颤抖，因为我在如此火热之后心慌意乱。

‘To accept this offer, my dear Esther,’ said he, sitting down beside me and resuming our conversation, ‘—once more, pray, pray forgive me; I am deeply grieved—to accept my dearest cousin’s offer is, I need not say, impossible. Besides, I have letters and papers that I could show you which would convince you it is all over here. I have done with the red coat, believe me. But it is some satisfaction, in the midst of my troubles and perplexities, to know that I am pressing Ada’s interests in pressing my own. Vholes has his shoulder to the wheel, and he cannot help urging it on as much for her as for me, thank God!’
“接受这个提议，我亲爱的埃丝特，”他在我旁边坐下，继续我们的谈话，“——再一次，祈祷，祈祷原谅我；我深感悲痛——不用说，接受我最亲爱的表弟的提议是不可能的。此外，我可以给你看一些信件和文件，让你相信一切都在这里。相信我，我已经不再穿那件红外套了。但在我的烦恼和困惑中，当我知道我在推动艾达的利益同时也在推动我自己的利益时，我感到有些满足。沃尔斯肩负着方向盘，他情不自禁地为她和我敦促它，感谢上帝！

His sanguine hopes were rising within him and lighting up his features, but they made his face more sad to me than it had been before.
他乐观的希望在他内心升起，照亮了他的面容，但在我看来，这让他的脸比以前更加悲伤。

‘No, no!’ cried Richard exultingly. ‘If every farthing of Ada’s little fortune were mine, no part of it should be spent in retaining me in what I am not fit for, can take no interest in, and am weary of. It should be devoted to what promises a better return, and should be used where she has a larger stake. Don’t be uneasy for me! I shall now have only one thing on my mind, and Vholes and I will work it. I shall not be without means. Free of my commission, I shall be able to compound with some small usurers who will hear of nothing but their bond now—Vholes says so. I should have a balance in my favour anyway, but that would swell it. Come, come! You shall carry a letter to Ada from me, Esther, and you must both of you be more hopeful of me and not believe that I am quite cast away just yet, my dear.’
“不，不！”理查德兴高采烈地喊道。 “如果艾达的小财产里的每一分钱都是我的，那么它的任何一部分都不应该用来让我做我不适合、不感兴趣、厌倦的事情。它应该致力于那些承诺更好的回报，并且应该用于她拥有更大股份的地方。别为我不安！我现在脑子里只有一件事，沃尔斯和我会努力去做。我不会没有手段。不用我的佣金，我将能够与一些小高利贷者复合，他们现在除了债券之外什么也听不到——沃尔斯是这么说的。无论如何，我应该保持对我有利的平衡，但这会加剧平衡。来来！你应该带着我写给艾达的一封信，埃丝特，你们一定要对我更有希望，不要相信我现在已经完全被抛弃了，亲爱的。

I will not repeat what I said to Richard. I know it was tiresome, and nobody is to suppose for a moment that it was at all wise. It only came from my heart. He heard it patiently and feelingly, but I saw that on the two subjects he had reserved it was at present hopeless to make any representation to him. I saw too, and had experienced in this very interview, the sense of my guardian’s remark that it was even more mischievous to use persuasion with him than to leave him as he was.
我不会重复我对理查德说过的话。我知道这很烦人，而且没有人会认为这是明智的。它只来自我的内心。他耐心而深情地听着，但我看到，在他保留的两个主题上，目前不可能向他做出任何陈述。我也看到，并且在这次采访中体验到了我的监护人所说的感觉，即对他进行说服比让他保持原样更加恶作剧。

Therefore I was driven at last to asking Richard if he would mind convincing me that it really was all over there, as he had said, and that it was not his mere impression. He showed me without hesitation a correspondence making it quite plain that his retirement was arranged. I found, from what he told me, that Mr. Vholes had copies of these papers and had been in consultation with him throughout. Beyond ascertaining this, and having been the bearer of Ada’s letter, and being (as I was going to be) Richard’s companion back to London, I had done no good by coming down. Admitting this to myself with a reluctant heart, I said I would return to the hotel and wait until he joined me there, so he threw a cloak over his shoulders and saw me to the gate, and Charley and I went back along the beach.
因此，我最后不得不问理查德是否介意让我相信，正如他所说，一切都在那里，而这不仅仅是他的印象。他毫不犹豫地给我看了一封信，清楚地表明他的退休生活已经安排好了。从他告诉我的情况来看，我发现沃尔斯先生拥有这些文件的副本，并且自始至终都在与他协商。除了确定这一点之外，作为艾达信的携带者，并且作为（正如我即将成为的）理查德回到伦敦的同伴，我下来并没有什么好处。我怀着不情愿的心情向自己承认了这一点，说我要回旅馆，等他和我一起去，于是他把一件斗篷披在肩上，送我到门口，查理和我沿着海滩回去。

There was a concourse of people in one spot, surrounding some naval officers who were landing from a boat, and pressing about them with unusual interest. I said to Charley this would be one of the great Indiaman’s boats now, and we stopped to look.
一个地方聚集了一群人，围住了一些从船上登陆的海军军官，并以不同寻常的兴趣围住了他们。我对查理说，这将是伟大的印度人的一艘船，我们停下来看看。

The gentlemen came slowly up from the waterside, speaking goodhumouredly to each other and to the people around and glancing about them as if they were glad to be in England again. ‘Charley, Charley,’ said I, ‘come away!’ And I hurried on so swiftly that my little maid was surprised.
先生们慢慢地从水边走上来，彼此之间以及周围的人都幽默地交谈着，环顾四周，仿佛很高兴再次来到英国。 “查理，查理，”我说，“走开！”我走得如此之快，让我的小女仆感到惊讶。

It was not until we were shut up in our cabin-room and I had had time to take breath that I began to think why I had made such haste. In one of the sunburnt faces I had recognized Mr. Allan Woodcourt, and I had been afraid of his recognizing me. I had been unwilling that he should see my altered looks. I had been taken by surprise, and my courage had quite failed me.
直到我们被关在我们的小屋里，我有时间喘口气时，我才开始思考为什么我这么着急。在一张晒黑的脸上我认出了艾伦·伍德考特先生，我一直害怕他认出我。我一直不愿意让他看到我改变的容貌。我大吃一惊，我的勇气彻底丧失了。

But I knew this would not do, and I now said to myself, ‘My dear, there is no reason—there is and there can be no reason at all—why it should be worse for you now than it ever has been. What you were last month, you are to-day; you are no worse, you are no better. This is not your resolution; call it up, Esther, call it up!’ I was in a great tremble—with running—and at first was quite unable to calm myself; but I got better, and I was very glad to know it.
但我知道这样做是不行的，我现在对自己说：‘亲爱的，没有理由——没有理由，也不可能有理由——为什么你现在的处境比以往任何时候都更糟。上个月的你，今天的你；你没有更差，也没有更好。这不是你的决定；而是你的决定。喊起来，艾丝特，喊起来！’我因为跑步而浑身发抖，一开始根本无法让自己平静下来。但我好多了，我很高兴知道这一点。

The party came to the hotel. I heard them speaking on the staircase. I was sure it was the same gentlemen because I knew their voices again—I mean I knew Mr. Woodcourt’s. It would still have been a great relief to me to have gone away without making myself known, but I was determined not to do so. ‘No, my dear, no. No, no, no!’
一行人来到酒店。我听到他们在楼梯上说话。我确信那是同一位先生，因为我又听出了他们的声音——我的意思是我听得见伍德考特先生的声音。如果我能在不让别人知道自己的情况下离开，对我来说仍然是一种极大的解脱，但我决心不这样做。 ‘不，亲爱的，不。不不不！'

I untied my bonnet and put my veil half up—I think I mean half down, but it matters very little—and wrote on one of my cards that I happened to be there with Mr. Richard Carstone, and I sent it in to Mr. Woodcourt. He came immediately. I told him I was rejoiced to be by chance among the first to welcome him home to England. And I saw that he was very sorry for me.
我解开帽子，把面纱半举起来——我想我的意思是半垂下来，但这并不重要——并在一张卡片上写下我碰巧和理查德·卡斯通先生在一起，然后我把它寄给了先生。 .伍德考特。他立刻就来了。我告诉他，我很高兴能够成为第一批欢迎他回到英国的人之一。我看到他很为我难过。

‘You have been in shipwreck and peril since you left us, Mr. Woodcourt,’ said I, ‘but we can hardly call that a misfortune which enabled you to be so useful and so brave. We read of it with the truest interest. It first came to my knowledge through your old patient, poor Miss Flite, when I was recovering from my severe illness.’
“伍德考特先生，自从你离开我们以来，你一直处于海难和危险之中，”我说，“但我们很难说这是一种不幸，它使你变得如此有用和如此勇敢。我们怀着最真实的兴趣阅读它。我第一次知道这件事是通过你的老病人可怜的弗利特小姐，当时我正从重病中恢复过来。

‘Ah! Little Miss Flite!’ he said. ‘She lives the same life yet?’
'啊！ “弗利特小小姐！”他说。 “她还过着同样的生活吗？”

‘Just the same.’
“一样。”

I was so comfortable with myself now as not to mind the veil and to be able to put it aside.
我现在对自己感到很舒服，不再介意面纱，并且能够把它放在一边。

‘Her gratitude to you, Mr. Woodcourt, is delightful. She is a most affectionate creature, as I have reason to say.’
“伍德考特先生，她对您的感激之情令人高兴。正如我有理由说的，她是一个最深情的人。

‘You—you have found her so?’ he returned. ‘I—I am glad of that.’ He was so very sorry for me that he could scarcely speak.
“你——你就这样找到她了？”他回答道。 “我——我很高兴。”他为我感到非常难过，几乎说不出话来。

‘I assure you,’ said I, ‘that I was deeply touched by her sympathy and pleasure at the time I have referred to.’
“我向你保证，”我说，“在我提到的那一刻，我被她的同情和快乐深深感动了。”

‘I was grieved to hear that you had been very ill.’
“听说你病得很重，我感到很难过。”

‘I was very ill.’
“我病得很重。”

‘But you have quite recovered?’
“但是你已经完全康复了吗？”

‘I have quite recovered my health and my cheerfulness,’ said I. ‘You know how good my guardian is and what a happy life we lead, and I have everything to be thankful for and nothing in the world to desire.’
“我已经完全恢复了健康和快乐，”我说，“你知道我的监护人是多么善良，我们过着多么幸福的生活，我拥有一切值得感恩的东西，世界上没有什么可渴望的。”

I felt as if he had greater commiseration for me than I had ever had for myself. It inspired me with new fortitude and new calmness to find that it was I who was under the necessity of reassuring him. I spoke to him of his voyage out and home, and of his future plans, and of his probable return to India. He said that was very doubtful. He had not found himself more favoured by fortune there than here. He had gone out a poor ship’s surgeon and had come home nothing better. While we were talking, and when I was glad to believe that I had alleviated (if I may use such a term) the shock he had had in seeing me, Richard came in. He had heard downstairs who was with me, and they met with cordial pleasure.
我觉得他对我的同情比我对自己的同情还要多。我发现正是我需要让他放心，这激发了我新的毅力和新的冷静。我向他讲述了他的出境和回家之旅、他未来的计划以及他可能返回印度的情况。他说这是非常值得怀疑的。他发现自己在那里没有比这里更受财富青睐的了。他离开了一位可怜的船上外科医生，回家后情况也没有好转。当我们谈话时，当我很高兴地相信我已经减轻了（如果我可以使用这样的术语）他看到我时的震惊时，理查德进来了。他听到楼下有谁和我在一起，他们见面了诚挚地高兴。

I saw that after their first greetings were over, and when they spoke of Richard’s career, Mr. Woodcourt had a perception that all was not going well with him. He frequently glanced at his face as if there were something in it that gave him pain, and more than once he looked towards me as though he sought to ascertain whether I knew what the truth was. Yet Richard was in one of his sanguine states and in good spirits and was thoroughly pleased to see Mr. Woodcourt again, whom he had always liked.
我发现，在他们第一次寒暄结束后，当他们谈到理查德的职业生涯时，伍德考特先生有一种感觉，他一切都不顺利。他经常扫视自己的脸，仿佛脸上有什么东西让他感到痛苦，他不止一次地看着我，好像想确定我是否知道真相是什么。然而理查德却处于一种乐观的状态，精神也很好，他非常高兴再次见到他一直喜欢的伍德考特先生。

Richard proposed that we all should go to London together; but Mr. Woodcourt, having to remain by his ship a little longer, could not join us. He dined with us, however, at an early hour, and became so much more like what he used to be that I was still more at peace to think I had been able to soften his regrets. Yet his mind was not relieved of Richard. When the coach was almost ready and Richard ran down to look after his luggage, he spoke to me about him.
理查德提议我们一起去伦敦；但伍德考特先生不得不在船上多待一会儿，所以无法加入我们。然而，他一大早就和我们一起吃饭，变得更像以前的样子，所以我更安心地认为我已经能够减轻他的遗憾了。然而他的心并没有摆脱理查德。当教练快准备好时，理查德跑下来看行李，他向我谈到了他。

I was not sure that I had a right to lay his whole story open, but I referred in a few words to his estrangement from Mr Jarndyce and to his being entangled in the ill-fated Chancery suit. Mr. Woodcourt listened with interest and expressed his regret.
我不确定我是否有权把他的整个故事公开，但我用几句话提到了他与詹迪斯先生的疏远以及他卷入了命运多舛的大法官诉讼。伍德考特先生饶有兴趣地听着，并表示遗憾。

‘I saw you observe him rather closely,’ said I, ‘Do you think him so changed?’
“我看到你观察得很仔细，”我说，“你认为他有这么大的变化吗？”

‘He is changed,’ he returned, shaking his head.
“他变了。”他摇着头回答道。

I felt the blood rush into my face for the first time, but it was only an instantaneous emotion. I turned my head aside, and it was gone.
我第一次感觉到血液涌上我的脸，但这只是瞬间的情绪。我把头扭到一边，它就消失了。

‘It is not,’ said Mr. Woodcourt, ‘his being so much younger or older, or thinner or fatter, or paler or ruddier, as there being upon his face such a singular expression. I never saw so remarkable a look in a young person. One cannot say that it is all anxiety or all weariness; yet it is both, and like ungrown despair.’
伍德考特先生说，“并不是因为他脸上有这样一种奇特的表情，而是他年轻或年长、瘦或胖、苍白或红润。”我从来没有见过一个年轻人有如此非凡的外表。不能说全是焦虑，全是疲倦；但两者兼而有之，就像未成熟的绝望一样。

‘You do not think he is ill?’ said I.
“你不认为他病了吗？”我说。

No. He looked robust in body.
不，他看起来身体很健壮。

‘That he cannot be at peace in mind, we have too much reason to know,’ I proceeded. ‘Mr. Woodcourt, you are going to London?’
“他内心无法平静，我们有太多理由知道，”我继续说道。 '先生。伍德考特，你要去伦敦吗？

‘To-morrow or the next day.’
“明天或者后天。”

‘There is nothing Richard wants so much as a friend. He always liked you. Pray see him when you get there. Pray help him sometimes with your companionship if you can. You do not know of what service it might be. You cannot think how Ada, and Mr. Jarndyce, and even I—how we should all thank you, Mr. Woodcourt!’
“理查德最想要的莫过于朋友了。他一直喜欢你。祈祷你到达那里后能见到他。如果可以的话，请有时用你的陪伴来帮助他。您不知道它可能是什么服务。你无法想象艾达、贾迪斯先生，甚至我——我们应该多么感谢你，伍德考特先生！

‘Miss Summerson,’ he said, more moved than he had been from the first, ‘before heaven, I will be a true friend to him! I will accept him as a trust, and it shall be a sacred one!’
“萨默森小姐，”他说道，比一开始更加感动，“在天堂面前，我将成为他真正的朋友！”我会接受他作为我的信任，这将是一个神圣的信任！

‘God bless you!’ said I, with my eyes filling fast; but I thought they might, when it was not for myself. ‘Ada loves him—we all love him, but Ada loves him as we cannot. I will tell her what you say. Thank you, and God bless you, in her name!’
“愿上帝保佑你！”我的眼睛里充满了泪水，说道。但我认为他们可能会这么做，但不是为了我自己。 “艾达爱他——我们都爱他，但艾达爱他，我们却不能。”我会告诉她你说的话。谢谢你，愿上帝以她的名义保佑你！”

Richard came back as we finished exchanging these hurried words and gave me his arm to take me to the coach.
当我们匆忙地交谈完后，理查德回来了，他伸出手臂带我去教练处。

‘Woodcourt,’ he said, unconscious with what application, ‘pray let us meet in London!’
“伍德考特，”他无意识地说道，“请让我们在伦敦见面吧！”

‘Meet?’ returned the other. ‘I have scarcely a friend there now but you. Where shall I find you?’
“见面？”另一个人回答道。 “除了你，我现在在那里几乎没有朋友了。”我到哪里去找你？

‘Why, I must get a lodging of some sort,’ said Richard, pondering. ‘Say at Vholes’s, Symond’s Inn.’
“为什么，我必须找个住处，”理查德沉思着说道。 “比如在沃尔斯的西蒙旅馆。”

‘Good! Without loss of time.’
'好的！不浪费时间。

They shook hands heartily. When I was seated in the coach and Richard was yet standing in the street, Mr. Woodcourt laid his friendly hand on Richard’s shoulder and looked at me. I understood him and waved mine in thanks.
他们热烈握手。当我坐在车厢里，理查德还站在街上时，伍德考特先生友好地将手放在理查德的肩膀上，看着我。我明白了他的意思，并挥手致谢。

And in his last look as we drove away, I saw that he was very sorry for me. I was glad to see it. I felt for my old self as the dead may feel if they ever revisit these scenes. I was glad to be tenderly remembered, to be gently pitied, not to be quite forgotten.
当我们开车离开时，从他最后的眼神中，我看到他对我感到非常抱歉。我很高兴看到它。我对过去的自己的感觉就像死者重温这些场景时可能会有的感觉一样。我很高兴被温柔地记住，被温柔地怜悯，而不是被完全遗忘。

CHAPTER XLVI
第四十六章


Stop Him!
阻止他！

Darkness rests upon Tom-All-Alone’s. Dilating and dilating since the sun went down last night, it has gradually swelled until it fills every void in the place. For a time there were some dungeon lights burning, as the lamp of life hums in Tom-all-Alone’s, heavily, heavily, in the nauseous air, and winking—as that lamp, too, winks in Tom-all-Alone’s—at many horrible things. But they are blotted out. The moon has eyed Tom with a dull cold stare, as admitting some puny emulation of herself in his desert region unfit for life and blasted by volcanic fires; but she has passed on and is gone. The blackest nightmare in the infernal stables grazes on Tom-all-Alone’s, and Tom is fast asleep.
黑暗降临在汤姆孤身一人的身上。自从昨晚太阳落山之后，它就一直膨胀啊膨胀，直到填满了这里的每一个空隙。有一段时间，地牢里的灯火在燃烧，生命之灯在令人作呕的空气中沉重地、沉重地嗡嗡作响，并且眨着眼睛——就像那盏灯在汤姆独自屋里眨着——许多可怕的事情。但它们被抹掉了。月亮用冷漠的眼神看着汤姆，承认自己在汤姆的沙漠地区做了一些微不足道的模仿，那里不适合生命，而且被火山大火烧毁了。但她已经去世了。地狱马厩中最黑暗的噩梦袭击了孤身一人的汤姆，而汤姆正在熟睡。

Much mighty speech-making there has been, both in and out of Parliament, concerning Tom, and much wrathful disputation how Tom shall be got right. Whether he shall be put into the main road by constables, or by beadles, or by bell-ringing, or by force of figures, or by correct principles of taste, or by high church, or by low church, or by no church; whether he shall be set to splitting trusses of polemical straws with the crooked knife of his mind or whether he shall be put to stone-breaking instead. In the midst of which dust and noise there is but one thing perfectly clear, to wit, that Tom only may and can, or shall and will, be reclaimed according to somebody’s theory but nobody’s practice. And in the hopeful meantime, Tom goes to perdition head foremost in his old determined spirit.
议会内外就汤姆进行了许多激烈的演讲，并就如何纠正汤姆的问题进行了激烈的争论。是否应该通过警察，或通过执事，或通过敲钟，或通过数字的力量，或通过正确的品味原则，或通过高级教会，或通过低级教会，或不通过教会，将他带入主干道；是用他头脑里的弯刀劈开好争论的稻草，还是用石头砸碎他。在尘土和噪音之中，只有一件事非常清楚，那就是，汤姆只能根据某人的理论而不是任何人的实践，可能并且能够，或者应该并且将会被回收。就在充满希望的同时，汤姆以他昔日坚定的精神走向灭亡。

But he has his revenge. Even the winds are his messengers, and they serve him in these hours of darkness. There is not a drop of Tom’s corrupted blood but propagates infection and contagion somewhere. It shall pollute, this very night, the choice stream (in which chemists on analysis would find the genuine nobility) of a Norman house, and his Grace shall not be able to say nay to the infamous alliance. There is not an atom of Tom’s slime, not a cubic inch of any pestilential gas in which he lives, not one obscenity or degradation about him, not an ignorance, not a wickedness, not a brutality of his committing, but shall work its retribution through every order of society up to the proudest of the proud and to the highest of the high. Verily, what with tainting, plundering, and spoiling, Tom has his revenge.
但他有他的复仇。甚至风也是他的使者，在黑暗的时刻为他服务。汤姆没有一滴腐败的血液，但却在某处传播感染和传染病。就在今晚，它将污染诺曼家族的精选流（化学家在分析中会发现真正的贵族），而陛下将无法拒绝这个臭名昭著的联盟。汤姆身上没有一粒粘液，他生活的地方没有一立方英寸的瘟疫气体，他身上没有任何淫秽或堕落，没有无知，没有邪恶，没有他的残忍行为，但都将受到报应贯穿社会的各个阶层，直到最骄傲的人以及最高层的人。确实，汤姆通过玷污、掠夺和破坏进行了报复。

It is a moot point whether Tom-all-Alone’s be uglier by day or by night, but on the argument that the more that is seen of it the more shocking it must be, and that no part of it left to the imagination is at all likely to be made so bad as the reality, day carries it. The day begins to break now; and in truth it might be better for the national glory even that the sun should sometimes set upon the British dominions than that it should ever rise upon so vile a wonder as Tom.
《汤姆孤身一人》是白天更丑还是晚上更丑，这是一个有争议的问题，但根据这样的论点，它看得越多，它一定越令人震惊，而且它的任何部分都没有留给想象的余地。一切都可能变得像现实一样糟糕，白天就会发生。天已经亮了；事实上，对于国家荣耀来说，即使太阳有时在英国的领土上落下，也比在汤姆这样卑鄙的奇迹上升起更好。

A brown sunburnt gentleman, who appears in some inaptitude for sleep to be wandering abroad rather than counting the hours on a restless pillow, strolls hitherward at this quiet time. Attracted by curiosity, he often pauses and looks about him, up and down the miserable by-ways. Nor is he merely curious, for in his bright dark eye there is compassionate interest; and as he looks here and there, he seems to understand such wretchedness and to have studied it before.
一位皮肤黝黑、皮肤晒黑的绅士，在这个安静的时刻向这里漫步，他似乎不太适合睡觉，而是在国外徘徊，而不是在不安的枕头上数着时间。受到好奇心的吸引，他经常停下来环顾四周，在悲惨的小路上来回走动。他不仅仅是好奇，因为他那双明亮的黑眼睛里流露出富有同情心的兴趣。当他四处张望时，他似乎了解这种不幸，并且以前就研究过它。

On the banks of the stagnant channel of mud which is the main street of Tom-all-Alone’s, nothing is to be seen but the crazy houses, shut up and silent. No waking creature save himself appears except in one direction, where he sees the solitary figure of a woman sitting on a door-step. He walks that way. Approaching, he observes that she has journeyed a long distance and is footsore and travel-stained. She sits on the door-step in the manner of one who is waiting, with her elbow on her knee and her head upon her hand. Beside her is a canvas bag, or bundle, she has carried. She is dozing probably, for she gives no heed to his steps as he comes toward her.
在汤姆独自的主街那条停滞的泥泞河道的岸边，除了那些疯狂的房子之外什么也看不见，它们紧闭而寂静。除了他自己之外，没有任何醒着的生物出现，除了在一个方向，他看到一个女人孤独的身影坐在门口的台阶上。他就那样走。走近一看，他发现她已经走了很长的路，脚痛，身上沾满了旅行的痕迹。她以等待的方式坐在门口台阶上，肘部放在膝盖上，头枕在手上。她旁边是她随身携带的一个帆布包或包裹。她可能正在打瞌睡，因为当他向她走来时，她没有注意到他的脚步。

The broken footway is so narrow that when Allan Woodcourt comes to where the woman sits, he has to turn into the road to pass her. Looking down at her face, his eye meets hers, and he stops.
破损的人行道非常狭窄，当艾伦·伍德考特来到那位女士坐的地方时，他必须拐进马路才能经过她。低头看着她的脸，他的目光与她的目光相遇，然后他停了下来。

‘What is the matter?’
'什么事？'

‘Nothing, sir.’
“没什么，先生。”

‘Can’t you make them hear? Do you want to be let in?’
‘你不能让他们听到吗？你想进去吗？

‘I’m walting till they get up at another house—a lodging-house— not here,’ the woman patiently returns. ‘I’m waiting here because there will be sun here presently to warm me.’
“我一直在走，直到他们在另一所房子——一间寄宿处——起床，而不是在这里，”女人耐心地回答道。 “我在这里等，因为这里很快就会有阳光来温暖我。”

‘I am afraid you are tired. I am sorry to see you sitting in the street.’
‘我担心你累了。我很遗憾看到你坐在街上。

‘Thank you, sir. It don’t matter.’
'谢谢你，先生。没关系。

A habit in him of speaking to the poor and of avoiding patronage or condescension or childishness (which is the favourite device, many people deeming it quite a subtlety to talk to them like little spelling books) has put him on good terms with the woman easily.
他习惯于与穷人交谈，避免居高临下、居高临下或幼稚（这是他最喜欢的手段，许多人认为像小拼写书一样与他们交谈是一种微妙的做法），这使他很容易与女人建立良好的关系。 。

‘Let me look at your forehead,’ he says, bending down. ‘I am a doctor. Don’t be afraid. I wouldn’t hurt you for the world.’
“让我看看你的额头，”他弯下腰说道。 '我是医生。不要害怕。我绝对不会伤害你。

He knows that by touching her with his skilful and accustomed hand he can soothe her yet more readily. She makes a slight objection, saying, ‘It’s nothing”; but he has scarcely laid his fingers on the wounded place when she lifts it up to the light.
他知道，用他熟练而习惯的手抚摸她，可以更轻松地安抚她。她略微反对说：“没什么”；但他的手指刚放在受伤的地方，她就把它举到了光亮处。

‘Aye! A bad bruise, and the skin sadly broken. This must be very sore.’
‘是啊！严重的瘀伤，皮肤也破碎了。这一定很痛。”

‘It do ache a little, sir,’ returns the woman with a started tear upon her cheek.
“确实有点疼，先生，”女人回答道，脸颊上流下了泪水。

‘Let me try to make it more comfortable. My handkerchief won’t hurt you.’
“让我试着让它变得更舒服。我的手帕不会伤害你。”

‘Oh, dear no, sir, I’m sure of that!’
“哦，亲爱的，不，先生，我确信这一点！”

He cleanses the injured place and dries it, and having carefully examined it and gently pressed it with the palm of his hand, takes a small case from his pocket, dresses it, and binds it up. While he is thus employed, he says, after laughing at his establishing a surgery in the street, ‘And so your husband is a brickmaker?’
他将受伤的地方清洗干净，擦干，仔细检查后，用手掌轻轻按了一下，从口袋里掏出一个小盒子，包扎起来。当他这样工作时，他嘲笑自己在街上开办了一家诊所后说道，“所以你的丈夫是一名砖匠？”

‘How do you know that, sir?’ asks the woman, astonished.
“先生，你怎么知道？”女人惊讶地问道。

‘Why, I suppose so from the colour of the clay upon your bag and on your dress. And I know brickmakers go about working at piecework in different places. And I am sorry to say I have known them cruel to their wives too.’
‘哎呀，从你包上和衣服上粘土的颜色来看，我猜是这样的。我知道制砖工人在不同的地方进行计件工作。我很遗憾地说，我也知道他们对自己的妻子也很残忍。

The woman hastily lifts up her eyes as if she would deny that her injury is referable to such a cause. But feeling the hand upon her forehead, and seeing his busy and composed face, she quietly drops them again.
女人急忙抬起眼睛，似乎要否认她的受伤是由这样的原因造成的。但感觉到放在她额头上的手，看到他忙碌而平静的脸，她又悄悄地放下了它们。

‘Where is he now?’ asks the surgeon.
“他现在在哪里？”外科医生问道。

‘He got into trouble last night, sir; but he’ll look for me at the lodging-house.’
“他昨晚遇到麻烦了，先生；但他会去寄宿处找我。”

‘He will get into worse trouble if he often misuses his large and heavy hand as he has misused it here. But you forgive him, brutal as he is, and I say no more of him, except that I wish he deserved it. You have no young child?’
“如果他经常滥用他那只又大又重的手，他会遇到更严重的麻烦，就像他在这里滥用它一样。但你原谅了他，尽管他很残酷，我不再谈论他，只是我希望他罪有应得。你没有小孩吗？

The woman shakes her head. ‘One as I calls mine, sir, but it’s Liz’s.’
女人摇摇头。 “我称之为我的，先生，但它是莉兹的。”

‘Your own is dead. I see! Poor little thing!’
‘你自己的人已经死了。我懂了！可怜的小东西！'

By this time he has finished and is putting up his case. ‘I suppose you have some settled home. Is it far from here?’ he asks, good-humouredly making light of what he has done as she gets up and curtsys.
此时他已经完成并正在提出他的案子。 “我想你已经有一个安定的家了。离这里远吗？”他问道，当她起身行屈膝礼时，他幽默地对他所做的事情轻描淡写。

‘It’s a good two or three and twenty mile from here, sir. At Saint Albans. You know Saint Albans, sir? I thought you gave a start like, as if you did.’
“距离这里有两三二十英里，长官。在圣奥尔本斯。先生，你知道圣奥尔本斯吗？我以为你吓了一跳，就好像你确实那样。

‘Yes, I know something of it. And now I will ask you a question in return. Have you money for your lodging?’
“是的，我知道一些事情。现在我将问你一个问题作为回报。你有钱住吗？

‘Yes, sir,’ she says, ‘really and truly.’ And she shows it. He tells her, in acknowledgment of her many subdued thanks, that she is very welcome, gives her good day, and walks away. Tom-allAlone’s is still asleep, and nothing is astir.
“是的，先生，”她说，“真的，真的。”她也表现出了这一点。他向她表示非常欢迎，并向她道了一声美好的问候，然后就离开了。汤姆独自还在睡觉，没有任何动静。

Yes, something is! As he retraces his way to the point from which he descried the woman at a distance sitting on the step, he sees a ragged figure coming very cautiously along, crouching close to the soiled walls—which the wretchedest figure might as well avoid—and furtively thrusting a hand before it. It is the figure of a youth whose face is hollow and whose eyes have an emaciated glare. He is so intent on getting along unseen that even the apparition of a stranger in whole garments does not tempt him to look back. He shades his face with his ragged elbow as he passes on the other side of the way, and goes shrinking and creeping on with his anxious hand before him and his shapeless clothes hanging in shreds. Clothes made for what purpose, or of what material, it would be impossible to say. They look, in colour and in substance, like a bundle of rank leaves of swampy growth that rotted long ago.
是的，有东西！当他原路返回，看到远处坐在台阶上的那个女人时，他看到一个衣衫褴褛的人影非常小心地走过来，蹲在靠近肮脏的墙壁的地方——最可怜的人也最好避开——并偷偷地走来。将一只手伸到它面前。那是一个面容空洞，双目憔悴的青年身影。他如此热衷于在不被人看见的情况下相处，即使是一个穿着整件衣服的陌生人的出现也不会诱惑他回头。当他从路的另一边经过时，他用破烂的手肘遮住脸，然后畏缩着，蠕动着，焦急的手放在面前，不成形的衣服挂在了碎片上。衣服是为了什么目的而制作的，或者是由什么材料制成的，这是不可能说的。它们的颜色和实质看起来就像一束很久以前就腐烂的沼泽植物的叶子。

Allan Woodcourt pauses to look after him and note all this, with a shadowy belief that he has seen the boy before. He cannot recall how or where, but there is some association in his mind with such a form. He imagines that he must have seen it in some hospital or refuge, still, cannot make out why it comes with any special force on his remembrance.
艾伦·伍德考特停下来照顾他，记下这一切，隐约相信他以前见过这个男孩。他不记得如何或在哪里，但他的脑海中与这样的形式有某种联系。他想象他一定在某家医院或避难所见过它，但仍然无法弄清楚为什么它对他的记忆有任何特殊的影响力。

He is gradually emerging from Tom-all-Alone’s in the morning light, thinking about it, when he hears running feet behind him, and looking round, sees the boy scouring towards him at great speed, followed by the woman.
他在晨光中逐渐从汤姆独自的家中走出来，想着这件事，这时他听到身后有脚步声，他环顾四周，看到男孩以极快的速度向他冲来，女人紧随其后。

‘Stop him, stop him!’ cries the woman, almost breath less. ‘Stop him, sir!’
“阻止他，阻止他！”女人几乎喘不过气来喊道。 “阻止他，先生！”

He darts across the road into the boy’s path, but the boy is quicker than he, makes a curve, ducks, dives under his hands, comes up half-a-dozen yards beyond him, and scours away again. Still the woman follows, crying, ‘Stop him, sir, pray stop him!’ Allan, not knowing but that he has just robbed her of her money, follows in chase and runs so hard that he runs the boy down a dozen times, but each time he repeats the curve, the duck, the dive, and scours away again. To strike at him on any of these occasions would be to fell and disable him, but the pursuer cannot resolve to do that, and so the grimly ridiculous pursuit continues. At last the fugitive, hard-pressed, takes to a narrow passage and a court which has no thoroughfare. Here, against a hoarding of decaying timber, he is brought to bay and tumbles down, lying gasping at his pursuer, who stands and gasps at him until the woman comes up.
他冲过马路，进入男孩的道路，但男孩比他更快，拐了一个弯，躲过他的手，来到距离他六码远的地方，然后再次冲走。那个女人仍然跟在后面，哭喊着：“阻止他，先生，求你阻止他！”艾伦不知道他刚刚抢了她的钱，他紧随其后，拼命奔跑，结果把他撞倒了十几次。但每次他都会重复转弯、鸭子、俯冲，然后再次冲走。在任何这些情况下攻击他都会使他摔倒并致残，但追击者无法下定决心这样做，因此这种极其荒谬的追击仍在继续。最后，逃亡者在困境中逃到了一条狭窄的通道和一个没有大道的法庭。在这里，他靠着一堆腐烂的木材，被逼到了海湾，摔倒了，躺在地上，对着他的追捕者喘着粗气，后者站着，对着他喘着粗气，直到那个女人出现。

‘Oh, you, Jo!’ cries the woman. ‘What? I have found you at last!’
“哦，你，乔！”女人喊道。 '什么？我终于找到你了！

‘Jo,’ repeats Allan, looking at him with attention, ‘Jo! Stay. To be sure! I recollect this lad some time ago being brought before the coroner.’
“乔，”艾伦重复道，专注地看着他，“乔！停留。为了确定！我记得这个小伙子不久前被带到验尸官面前。

‘Yes, I see you once afore at the inkwhich,’ whimpers Jo. ‘What of that? Can’t you never let such an unfortnet as me alone? An’t I unfortnet enough for you yet? How unfortnet do you want me fur to be? I’ve been a-chivied and a-chivied, fust by one on you and nixt by another on you, till I’m worritted to skins and bones. The inkwhich warn’t MY fault. I done nothink. He wos wery good to me, he wos; he wos the only one I knowed to speak to, as ever come across my crossing. It ain’t wery likely I should want him to be inkwhiched. I only wish I wos, myself. I don’t know why I don’t go and make a hole in the water, I’m sure I don’t.’
“是的，我以前在墨水店见过你一次，”乔呜咽道。 ‘那又怎样？难道你就不能放过我这样一个不幸的人吗？我对你来说还不够不幸吗？你想让我变得多么不幸？我对你狠狠地狠狠地狠狠地狠狠地狠狠地狠狠地狠狠地攻击一次，然后又再一次地对你狠狠地攻击，直到我焦急万分。墨水这不是我的错。我什么也没做。他对我很好，他很好；他是我认识的唯一一个可以与之交谈的人，就像以前穿过我的路口时一样。我不太可能希望他被墨水污染。我只希望我自己。我不知道为什么我不去在水里打一个洞，我确信我不会。

He says it with such a pitiable air, and his grimy tears appear so real, and he lies in the corner up against the hoarding so like a growth of fungus or any unwholesome excrescence produced there in neglect and impurity, that Allan Woodcourt is softened towards him. He says to the woman, ‘Miserable creature, what has he done?’
他用一种可怜的神情说这句话，他肮脏的眼泪显得那么真实，他躺在角落里靠着围板，就像真菌的生长或任何不健康的赘生物在忽视和杂质中产生的，艾伦·伍德考特对艾伦·伍德考特的态度变得软化了。他。他对女人说：“可怜的家伙，他做了什么？”

To which she only replies, shaking her head at the prostrate figure more amazedly than angrily, ‘Oh, you Jo, you Jo. I have found you at last!’
她只是回答道，对着倒下的人摇摇头，与其说是愤怒，不如说是惊讶，“哦，你乔，你乔。”我终于找到你了！

‘What has he done?’ says Allan. ‘Has he robbed you?’
“他做了什么？”艾伦说。 “他抢劫了你吗？”

‘No, sir, no. Robbed me? He did nothing but what was kind-hearted by me, and that’s the wonder of it.’
‘不，先生，不。抢我的？他除了我的善意之外什么也没做，这就是奇迹。”

Allan looks from Jo to the woman, and from the woman to Jo, waiting for one of them to unravel the riddle.
艾伦看看乔，看看那个女人，又看看那个女人，又看看乔，等待他们中的一个人解开谜团。

‘But he was along with me, sir,’ says the woman. ‘Oh, you Jo! He was along with me, sir, down at Saint Albans, ill, and a young lady, Lord bless her for a good friend to me, took pity on him when I durstn’t, and took him home—‘
“但他和我在一起，先生，”女人说。 ‘哦，你乔！先生，他和我一起在圣奥尔本斯生病了，一位年轻的女士，上帝保佑她，她是我的好朋友，在我不敢的时候怜悯他，带他回家了——”

Allan shrinks back from him with a sudden horror.
艾伦突然感到恐惧，从他身边退缩了。

‘Yes, sir, yes. Took him home, and made him comfortable, and like a thankless monster he ran away in the night and never has been seen or heard of since till I set eyes on him just now. And that young lady that was such a pretty dear caught his illness, lost her beautiful looks, and wouldn’t hardly be known for the same young lady now if it wasn’t for her angel temper, and her pretty shape, and her sweet voice. Do you know it? You ungrateful wretch, do you know that this is all along of you and of her goodness to you?’ demands the woman, beginning to rage at him as she recalls it and breaking into passionate tears.
‘是的，先生，是的。带他回家，让他舒服点，然后他像一个忘恩负义的怪物一样连夜逃跑，从此再也没有人见过或听说过他，直到我刚才看到他。而那个那么可爱的小姐却得了病，失去了美丽的容颜，如果不是她天使般的脾气，漂亮的身材，还有她的甜美，现在也很难为同一个小姐所熟知。嗓音。你知道吗？你这个忘恩负义的坏蛋，你知道这都是你和她对你的好吗？”女人问道，回忆起这件事，她开始对他发怒，并热泪盈眶。

The boy, in rough sort stunned by what he hears, falls to smearing his dirty forehead with his dirty palm, and to staring at the ground, and to shaking from head to foot until the crazy hoarding against which he leans rattles.
男孩被他听到的内容惊呆了，用肮脏的手掌涂抹了肮脏的额头，盯着地面，从头到脚摇晃着，直到他靠着的疯狂的木板嘎嘎作响。

Allan restrains the woman, merely by a quiet gesture, but effectually.
艾伦只是用一个安静的姿势制止了那个女人，但很有效。

‘Richard told me—‘ He falters. ‘I mean, I have heard of this— don’t mind me for a moment, I will speak presently.’
“理查德告诉我——”他支吾着。 “我的意思是，我听说过这个——暂时别介意我，我马上就说。”

He turns away and stands for a while looking out at the covered passage. When he comes back, he has recovered his composure, except that he contends against an avoidance of the boy, which is so very remarkable that it absorbs the woman’s attention.
他转过身来，站了一会儿，看着外面有遮盖的通道。当他回来时，他已经恢复了平静，只是他竭力回避男孩，这一点非常引人注目，以至于吸引了女人的注意力。

‘You hear what she says. But get up, get up!’
‘你听她说的话。但是站起来，站起来！

Jo, shaking and chattering, slowly rises and stands, after the manner of his tribe in a difficulty, sideways against the hoarding, resting one of his high shoulders against it and covertly rubbing his right hand over his left and his left foot over his right.
乔颤抖着，喋喋不休，慢慢地站起来，按照他部落在困难中的方式，侧身靠着围板，用他的一个高肩膀靠在上面，偷偷地用右手在左手上摩擦，左脚在右脚上摩擦。 。

‘You hear what she says, and I know it’s true. Have you been here ever since?’
“你听到她说的话，我知道这是真的。从那以后你就一直在这里吗？

‘Wishermaydie if I seen Tom-all-Alone’s till this blessed morning,’ replies Jo hoarsely.
“要是我能在这个幸福的早晨看到汤姆孤身一人就好了，”乔沙哑地回答道。

‘Why have you come here now?’
“你为什么现在才来这里？”

Jo looks all round the confined court, looks at his questioner no higher than the knees, and finally answers, ‘I don’t know how to do nothink, and I can’t get nothink to do. I’m wery poor and ill, and I thought I’d come back here when there warn’t nobody about, and lay down and hide somewheres as I knows on till arter dark, and then go and beg a trifle of Mr. Snagsby. He wos allus willin fur to give me somethink he wos, though Mrs. Snagsby she was allus achivying on me—like everybody everywheres.’
乔环视了封闭的球场，看着发问者，目光高度不超过膝盖，最后回答道：“我不知道如何做nothink，我也无法让nothink做。”我又穷又病，我想我会在没人警告的时候回到这里，在我知道的地方躺下并躲起来，直到天黑，然后去向斯纳斯比先生乞讨一点东西。他愿意给我一些认为他愿意的东西，尽管斯纳格斯比夫人对我有所成就——就像世界各地的每个人一样。

‘Where have you come from?’
“你从哪里来？”

Jo looks all round the court again, looks at his questioner’s knees again, and concludes by laying his profile against the hoarding in a sort of resignation.
乔再次环视了球场，又看了看提问者的膝盖，最后以一种无奈的方式将自己的侧脸靠在了围板上。

‘Did you hear me ask you where you have come from?’
“你听到我问你从哪里来了吗？”

‘Tramp then,’ says Jo.
“那就流浪吧，”乔说。

‘Now tell me,’ proceeds Allan, making a strong effort to overcome his repugnance, going very near to him, and leaning over him with an expression of confidence, ‘tell me how it came about that you left that house when the good young lady had been so unfortunate as to pity you and take you home.’
“现在告诉我，”艾伦继续说道，他竭尽全力克服自己的反感，走近他，靠在他身上，脸上露出自信的表情，“告诉我，当那个好年轻人的时候，你是怎么离开那所房子的？”女士太不幸了，可怜你，把你带回家了。”

Jo suddenly comes out of his resignation and excitedly declares, addressing the woman, that he never known about the young lady, that he never heern about it, that he never went fur to hurt her, that he would sooner have hurt his own self, that he’d sooner have had his unfortnet ed chopped off than ever gone a-nigh her, and that she wos wery good to him, she wos. Conducting himself throughout as if in his poor fashion he really meant it, and winding up with some very miserable sobs.
乔突然从辞职中走出来，兴奋地对那个女人宣称，他从来不知道这位年轻女士的事，他从来没有听说过这件事，他从来没有去伤害她，他宁愿伤害自己，他宁愿把自己不幸的女儿砍掉，也不愿靠近她，而且她对他很好，她很好。他自始至终都表现得好像他是真心实意的，以他那糟糕的方式行事，最后却发出了一阵非常痛苦的抽泣。

Allan Woodcourt sees that this is not a sham. He constrains himself to touch him. ‘Come, Jo. Tell me.’
艾伦·伍德考特看出这不是骗局。他强迫自己去触碰他。来吧，乔。告诉我。'

‘No. I dustn’t,’ says Jo, relapsing into the profile state. ‘I dustn’t, or I would.’
'不。我没有除尘，”乔说道，又回到了个人资料状态。 “我不掸灰尘，否则我会的。”

‘But I must know,’ returns the other, ‘all the same. Come, Jo.’
“但我必须知道，”对方回答道，“无论如何。”来吧，乔。”

After two or three such adjurations, Jo lifts up his head again, looks round the court again, and says in a low voice, ‘Well, I’ll tell you something. I was took away. There!’
这样的嘱咐了两三遍之后，乔又抬起头来，环视了一下球场，低声说道：“好吧，我告诉你一件事。”我被带走了。那里！'

‘Took away? In the night?’
'拿走？晚上？

‘Ah!’ Very apprehensive of being overheard, Jo looks about him and even glances up some ten feet at the top of the hoarding and through the cracks in it lest the object of his distrust should be looking over or hidden on the other side.
“啊！”乔非常担心被人偷听，他环顾四周，甚至抬头看了看围板顶部大约十英尺的地方，透过围板的裂缝，以免他不信任的对象从另一边窥视或隐藏起来。

‘Who took you away?’
“谁把你带走了？”

‘I dustn’t name him,’ says Jo. ‘I dustn’t do it, sir.
“我没有提到他的名字，”乔说。 “我不会这么做，先生。

‘But I want, in the young lady’s name, to know. You may trust me. No one else shall hear.’
“但我想以这位年轻女士的名义知道。你可以相信我。没有其他人会听到。

‘Ah, but I don’t know,’ replies Jo, shaking his head fearfulty, ‘as he DON’T hear.’
“啊，但我不知道，”乔回答道，害怕地摇着头，“因为他没有听到。”

‘Why, he is not in this place.’
“为什么，他不在这个地方。”

‘Oh, ain’t he though?’ says Jo. ‘He’s in all manner of places, all at wanst.’
“哦，不是吗？”乔说。 “他在各个地方，都处于匮乏状态。”

Allan looks at him in perplexity, but discovers some real meaning and good faith at the bottom of this bewildering reply. He patiently awaits an explicit answer; and Jo, more baffled by his patience than by anything else, at last desperately whispers a name in his ear.
艾伦困惑地看着他，但在这个令人困惑的回答中发现了一些真正的含义和善意。他耐心地等待明确的答复；乔对他的耐心比其他任何事情都更感到困惑，最后绝望地在他耳边低声说出了一个名字。

‘Aye!’ says Allan. ‘Why, what had you been doing?’
“是的！”艾伦说。 “为什么，你刚才在做什么？”

‘Nothink, sir. Never done nothink to get myself into no trouble, ‘sept in not moving on and the inkwhich. But I’m a-moving on now. I’m a-moving on to the berryin ground—that’s the move as I’m up to.’
“不用想，先生。从来没有想过让自己陷入麻烦，只是不继续前进和墨水。但我现在要继续前进。我要搬到浆果地——这就是我要做的搬家。

‘No, no, we will try to prevent that. But what did he do with you?’
‘不，不，我们会尽力阻止这种情况发生。但他对你做了什么？

‘Put me in a horsepittle,’ replied Jo, whispering, ‘till I was discharged, then giv me a little money—four half-bulls, wot you may call half-crowns—and ses ‘Hook it! Nobody wants you here,’ he ses. ‘You hook it. You go and tramp,’ he ses. ‘You move on,’ he ses. ‘Don’t let me ever see you nowheres within forty mile of London, or you’ll repent it.’ So I shall, if ever he doos see me, and he’ll see me if I’m above ground,’ concludes Jo, nervously repeating all his former precautions and investigations.
“把我关进马坑，”乔低声回答，“直到我出院，然后给我一点钱——四个半公牛，你可以称之为半克朗——然后‘钩住它！没有人想要你在这里，”他说道。 ‘你钩住它。你去流浪吧，”他说道。 “你继续前进，”他说道。 “别让我在伦敦四十英里范围内的任何地方看到你，否则你会后悔的。”所以，如果他真的看到我，我会看到我，如果我在地面上，他也会看到我，“总结道乔紧张地重复着他之前的所有预防措施和调查。

Allan considers a little, then remarks, turning to the woman but keeping an encouraging eye on Jo, ‘He is not so ungrateful as you supposed. He had a reason for going away, though it was an insufficient one.’
艾伦想了一会儿，然后说道，转向那个女人，但仍用鼓励的目光看着乔，“他并不像你想象的那么忘恩负义。”他离开是有理由的，尽管这个理由还不够充分。”

‘Thankee, sir, thankee!’ exclaims Jo. ‘There now! See how hard you wos upon me. But ony you tell the young lady wot the genlmn ses, and it’s all right. For YOU wos wery good to me too, and I knows it.’
“谢谢，先生，谢谢！”乔喊道。 '就是现在！看你对我有多狠。但只要你告诉那位小姐我是将军，那就没问题了。因为你对我也很好，我知道这一点。

‘Now, Jo,’ says Allan, keeping his eye upon him, ‘come with me and I will find you a better place than this to lie down and hide in. If I take one side of the way and you the other to avoid observation, you will not run away, I know very well, if you make me a promise.’
“现在，乔，”艾伦注视着他，说道，“跟我来，我会给你找一个比这里更好的地方躺下藏身。如果我走一侧，你走另一侧，避开观察，如果你向我保证，你就不会逃跑，我很清楚。”

‘I won’t, not unless I wos to see HIM a-coming, sir.’
“我不会，除非我愿意看到他来，先生。”

‘Very well. I take your word. Half the town is getting up by this time, and the whole town will be broad awake in another hour. Come along. Good day again, my good woman.’
'很好。我相信你的话。这个时候一半的城镇已经起床了，再过一个小时整个城镇就会完全苏醒。一起来。又是美好的一天，我的好女人。

‘Good day again, sir, and I thank you kindly many times again.’
“再见，先生，我再次衷心感谢您。”

She has been sitting on her bag, deeply attentive, and now rises and takes it up. Jo, repeating, ‘Ony you tell the young lady as I never went fur to hurt her and wot the genlmn ses!’ nods and shambles and shivers, and smears and blinks, and half laughs and half cries, a farewell to her, and takes his creeping way along after Allan Woodcourt, close to the houses on the opposite side of the street. In this order, the two come up out of Tom-all-Alone’s into the broad rays of the sunlight and the purer air.
她一直坐在包上，全神贯注，现在站起来拿起包。乔重复道：“只有你告诉这位年轻女士，因为我从来没有伤害过她，也没有伤害过你们！”点点头，颤抖着，颤抖着，抹着脸，眨着眼睛，半笑半哭，向她告别，然后缓慢地跟在艾伦·伍德考特后面，靠近街对面的房子。按照这个顺序，两人走出汤姆独自屋，进入广阔的阳光和纯净的空气中。

CHAPTER XLVII
第四十七章


Jo’s Will
乔的遗嘱

As Allan Woodcourt and Jo proceed along the streets where the high church spires and the distances are so near and clear in the morning light that the city itself seems renewed by rest, Allan revolves in his mind how and where he shall bestow his companion. ‘It surely is a strange fact,’ he considers, ‘that in the heart of a civilized world this creature in human form should be more difficult to dispose of than an unowned dog.’ But it is none the less a fact because of its strangeness, and the difficulty remains.
当艾伦·伍德考特和乔沿着街道前进时，那里有高高的教堂尖顶，在晨光中，距离是如此的近和清晰，以至于这座城市本身似乎因休息而焕然一新，艾伦在他的脑海中盘旋着他将如何以及在哪里给予他的同伴。 “这确实是一个奇怪的事实，”他认为，“在一个文明世界的中心，这种人类形态的生物应该比一只无主的狗更难处理。”但这仍然是一个事实，因为它的陌生感，困难依然存在。

At first he looks behind him often to assure himself that Jo is still really following. But look where he will, he still beholds him close to the opposite houses, making his way with his wary hand from brick to brick and from door to door, and often, as he creeps along, glancing over at him watchfully. Soon satisfied that the last thing in his thoughts is to give him the slip, Allan goes on, considering with a less divided attention what he shall do.
起初，他经常向后看，以确保乔确实在跟着他。但无论他往哪里看，他仍然看到他靠近对面的房子，小心翼翼地用他的手从一块砖走到另一块砖，从一扇门走到另一扇门，当他爬行时，常常会警惕地瞥见他。艾伦很快就意识到自己最不想做的事情就是让他溜走，他继续说道，注意力不集中地考虑着他应该做什么。

A breakfast-stall at a street-corner suggests the first thing to be done. He stops there, looks round, and beckons Jo. Jo crosses and comes halting and shuffling up, slowly scooping the knuckles of his right hand round and round in the hollowed palm of his left, kneading dirt with a natural pestle and mortar. What is a dainty repast to Jo is then set before him, and he begins to gulp the coffee and to gnaw the bread and butter, looking anxiously about him in all directions as he eats and drinks, like a scared animal.
街角的早餐摊建议我们要做的第一件事。他停在那里，环顾四周，并向乔招手。乔走过来，停下来，拖着脚步，慢慢地用右手的指节在左手空心的手掌上转了一圈又一圈，用天然的杵和研钵揉捏泥土。对乔来说，一顿美味的晚餐就摆在他面前，他开始大口喝咖啡，啃面包和黄油，一边吃喝，一边焦急地环顾四周，就像一只受惊的动物。

But he is so sick and miserable that even hunger has abandoned him. ‘I thought I was amost a-starvin, sir,’ says Jo, soon putting down his food, ‘but I don’t know nothink—not even that. I don’t care for eating wittles nor yet for drinking on ‘em.’ And Jo stands shivering and looking at the breakfast wonderingly.
但他病得很重，痛苦不堪，连饥饿都抛弃了他。 “我以为我快要饿死了，先生，”乔说着，很快就放下了食物，“但我不知道——连这一点也不知道。”我不喜欢吃玉米粒，也不喜欢吃玉米粒喝饮料。乔浑身发抖地站着，惊奇地看着早餐。

Allan Woodcourt lays his hand upon his pulse and on his chest. ‘Draw breath, Jo!’ ‘It draws,’ says Jo, ‘as heavy as a cart.’ He might add, ‘And rattles like it,’ but he only mutters, ‘I’m amoving on, sir.’
艾伦·伍德考特把手放在脉搏上和胸口上。 “深吸一口气，乔！”“它深吸一口气，”乔说，“像一辆推车一样重。”他可能会补充说，“还有像它一样的嘎嘎声，”但他只是咕哝道，“我要继续前进了，先生。”

Allan looks about for an apothecary’s shop. There is none at hand, but a tavern does as well or better. He obtains a little measure of wine and gives the lad a portion of it very carefully. He begins to revive almost as soon as it passes his lips. ‘We may repeat that dose, Jo,’ observes Allan after watching him with his attentive face. ‘So! Now we will take five minutes’ rest, and then go on again.’
艾伦四处寻找一家药店。手边没有，但小酒馆也可以，甚至更好。他取了一点酒，小心翼翼地给了小伙子一份。几乎一经过他的嘴唇，他就开始苏醒。 “我们可以重复这个剂量，乔，”艾伦用专注的表情看着他后说道。 '所以！现在我们休息五分钟，然后再继续。”

Leaving the boy sitting on the bench of the breakfast-stall, with his back against an iron railing, Allan Woodcourt paces up and down in the early sunshine, casting an occasional look towards him without appearing to watch him. It requires no discernment to perceive that he is warmed and refreshed. If a face so shaded can brighten, his face brightens somewhat; and by little and little he eats the slice of bread he had so hopelessly laid down. Observant of these signs of improvement, Allan engages him in conversation and elicits to his no small wonder the adventure of the lady in the veil, with all its consequences. Jo slowly munches as he slowly tells it. When he has finished his story and his bread, they go on again.
艾伦·伍德考特把男孩留在早餐摊的长凳上，背靠着铁栏杆，在清晨的阳光下踱来踱去，时不时地看他一眼，但似乎没有看他。不需要任何洞察力就能察觉到他感到温暖和神清气爽。如果一张如此阴影的脸可以变亮，那么他的脸就会变亮一些；他一点点地吃掉了他绝望地放下的那片面包。艾伦观察到这些改善的迹象，便与他交谈，并让他对戴面纱的女士的冒险及其所有后果感到惊讶。乔一边慢慢咀嚼，一边慢慢讲述。当他讲完他的故事和他的面包后，他们又继续前进。

Intending to refer his difficulty in finding a temporary place of refuge for the boy to his old patient, zealous little Miss Flite, Allan leads the way to the court where he and Jo first foregathered. But all is changed at the rag and bottle shop; Miss Flite no longer lodges there; it is shut up; and a hard-featured female, much obscured by dust, whose age is a problem, but who is indeed no other than the interesting Judy, is tart and spare in her replies. These sufficing, however, to inform the visitor that Miss Flite and her birds are domiciled with a Mrs. Blinder, in Bell Yard, he repairs to that neighbouring place, where Miss Flite (who rises early that she may be punctual at the divan of justice held by her excellent friend the Chancellor) comes running downstairs with tears of welcome and with open arms.
艾伦打算向他的老病人、热心的小弗利特小姐诉说他为男孩寻找临时避难所所遇到的困难，于是他带路来到了他和乔第一次见面的法庭。但在破布和瓶子店里，一切都变了。弗利特小姐不再住在那里；它被关闭了；一位面容冷酷的女性，被灰尘遮住了，她的年龄是个问题，但她确实不是别人，正是有趣的朱迪，她的回答尖酸刻薄。然而，这些足以告诉来访者，弗利特小姐和她的鸟儿住在贝尔院的布林德夫人那里，他飞往邻近的地方，弗利特小姐（她起得很早，以便她可以准时在沙发上）她的好朋友总理主持的正义）带着欢迎的泪水和张开双臂跑下楼。

‘My dear physician!’ cries Miss Flite. ‘My meritorious, distinguished, honourable officer!’ She uses some odd expressions, but is as cordial and full of heart as sanity itself can be—more so than it often is. Allan, very patient with her, waits until she has no more raptures to express, then points out Jo, trembling in a doorway, and tells her how he comes there.
“我亲爱的医生！”弗利特小姐喊道。 “我的功勋卓著、尊敬的军官！”她用了一些奇怪的表达方式，但她的神智正常，充满热情，比平常更加真诚。艾伦对她非常耐心，等到她不再有任何喜悦可以表达，然后指着门口颤抖着的乔，告诉她他是怎么到那里的。

‘Where can I lodge him hereabouts for the present? Now, you have a fund of knowledge and good sense and can advise me.
“我现在可以把他安置在哪里？”现在，您拥有丰富的知识和良好的判断力，可以为我提供建议。

Miss Flite, mighty proud of the compliment, sets herself to consider; but it is long before a bright thought occurs to her. Mrs. Blinder is entirely let, and she herself occupies poor Gridley’s room. ‘Gridley!’ exclaims Miss Flite, clapping her hands after a twentieth repetition of this remark. ‘Gridley! To be sure! Of course! My dear physician! General George will help us out.’
弗利特小姐对这种恭维感到非常自豪，她开始考虑；但过了很久她才想到一个明智的想法。布林德太太完全被租了，她自己也住在可怜的格里德利的房间里。 “格里德利！”弗利特小姐喊道，这句话重复了二十遍后，她拍起了手。 ‘格里德利！为了确定！当然！我亲爱的医生！乔治将军会帮助我们。”

It is hopeless to ask for any information about General George, and would be, though Miss Flite had not akeady run upstairs to put on her pinched bonnet and her poor little shawl and to arm herself with her reticule of documents. But as she informs her physician in her disjointed manner on coming down in full array that General George, whom she often calls upon, knows her dear Fitz Jarndyce and takes a great interest in all connected with her, Allan is induced to think that they may be in the right way. So he tells Jo, for his encouragement, that this walking about will soon be over now; and they repair to the general’s. Fortunately it is not far.
询问有关乔治将军的任何信息是没有希望的，而且也确实会这样，尽管弗利特小姐还没有跑上楼戴上她那顶紧缩的帽子和她可怜的小披肩，并用她的文件袋武装自己。但是，当她全副武装地下来后，以杂乱无章的方式告诉医生，她经常拜访的乔治将军认识她亲爱的菲茨·贾迪斯，并对与她有关的一切都非常感兴趣，艾伦不禁认为他们可能以正确的方式。因此，为了鼓励乔，他告诉乔，这次散步很快就会结束。他们修复了将军的。幸好距离不远。

From the exterior of George’s Shooting Gallery, and the long entry, and the bare perspective beyond it, Allan Woodcourt augurs well. He also descries promise in the figure of Mr. George himself, striding towards them in his mornmg exercise with his pipe in his mouth, no stock on, and his muscular arms, developed by broadsword and dumbbell, weightily asserting themselves through his light shirt-sleeves.
从乔治射击馆的外观、长长的入口以及后面的裸露视角来看，艾伦·伍德考特预示着良好的前景。他还从乔治先生本人的形象中看到了希望，他在晨练中大步走向他们，嘴里叼着烟斗，没戴枪托，他肌肉发达的手臂，由大刀和哑铃锻炼而成，通过他的浅色衬衫有力地彰显自己的力量——袖子。

‘Your servant, sir,’ says Mr. George with a military salute. Goodhumouredly smiling all over his broad forehead up into his crisp hair, he then defers to Miss Flite, as, with great stateliness, and at some length, she performs the courtly ceremony of presentation. He winds it up with another ‘Your servant, sir!’ and another salute.
“您的仆人，先生，”乔治先生行了一个军礼说道。宽阔的前额上满是幽默的微笑，一直延伸到清爽的头发中，然后他向弗利特小姐致敬，因为她以极大的威严和一段较长的时间，执行了宫廷的介绍仪式。他又说了一句“您的仆人，先生！”并再次行了一个礼。

‘Excuse me, sir. A sailor, I believe?’ says Mr. George.
'对不起，先生。 “我相信是个水手吧？”乔治先生说。

‘I am proud to find I have the air of one,’ returns Allan; ‘but I am only a sea-going doctor.’
“我很自豪地发现我有一个人的气质，”艾伦回答道； “但我只是一名航海医生。”

‘Indeed, sir! I should have thought you was a regular blue-jacket myself.’
‘确实如此，先生！我本应该以为你自己就是一名普通的蓝夹克。

Allan hopes Mr. George will forgive his intrusion the more readily on that account, and particularly that he will not lay aside his pipe, which, in his politeness, he has testifled some intention of doing. ‘You are very good, sir,’ returns the trooper. ‘As I know by experience that it’s not disagreeable to Miss Flite, and since it’s equally agreeable to yourself—‘ and finishes the sentence by putting it between his lips again. Allan proceeds to tell him all he knows about Jo, unto which the trooper listens with a grave face.
艾伦希望乔治先生能因此而更容易地原谅他的闯入，特别是他不会放下烟斗，他出于礼貌已经证明了这样做的意图。 “你非常好，长官，”士兵回答道。 “根据我的经验，这对弗利特小姐来说并不令人不快，因为这对你来说也同样令人愉快——”他再次把它放在嘴唇之间，结束了这句话。艾伦继续告诉他他所知道的有关乔的一切，士兵面色严肃地听着。

‘And that’s the lad, sir, is it?’ he inquires, looking along the entry to where Jo stands staring up at the great letters on the whitewashed front, which have no meaning in his eyes.
“这就是那个小伙子，先生，是吗？”他问道，一边沿着入口望向乔站着的地方，盯着粉刷过的正面上的大字，这些字在他眼里毫无意义。

‘That’s he,’ says Allan. ‘And, Mr. George, I am in this difficulty about him. I am unwilling to place him in a hospital, even if I could procure him immediate admission, because I foresee that he would not stay there many hours if he could be so much as got there. The same objection applies to a workhouse, supposing I had the patience to be evaded and shirked, and handed about from post to pillar in trying to get him into one, which is a system that I don’t take kindly to.’
“就是他，”艾伦说。 “而且，乔治先生，我对他感到很为难。”即使我能让他立即入院，我也不愿意把他送进医院，因为我预见到，如果他能赶到那里，他也不会在那里待上几个小时。同样的反对意见也适用于济贫院，假设我有耐心被回避和推卸，并从一个岗位调到另一个岗位，试图让他进入济贫院，这是一个我不喜欢的制度。

‘No man does, sir,’ returns Mr. George.
“没有人这样做，先生，”乔治先生回答道。

‘I am convinced that he would not remain in either place, because he is possessed by an extraordinary terror of this person who ordered him to keep out of the way; in his ignorance, he believes this person to be everywhere, and cognizant of everything.’
“我确信他不会留在任何一个地方，因为他对这个命令他让开的人感到异常恐惧；由于他的无知，他相信这个人无处不在，并且了解一切。

‘I ask your pardon, sir,’ says Mr. George. ‘But you have not mentioned that party’s name. Is it a secret, sir?’
“请您原谅，先生，”乔治先生说。 “但你没有提到那个政党的名字。这是一个秘密吗，先生？

‘The boy makes it one. But his name is Bucket.’
“这男孩做到了。”但他的名字叫巴克特。”

‘Bucket the detective, sir?’
“把侦探扔进桶里吗，先生？”

‘The same man.’
“同一个人。”

‘The man is known to me, sir,’ returns the trooper after blowing out a cloud of smoke and squaring his chest, ‘and the boy is so far correct that he undoubtedly is a—rum customer.’ Mr. George smokes with a profound meaning after this and surveys Miss Flite in silence.
“我认识这个人，长官，”警察喷出一团烟，挺起胸膛，回答道，“到目前为止，这个男孩是正确的，他无疑是朗姆酒的顾客。”乔治先生抽烟时用的是此后意义深远，沉默地审视着弗利特小姐。

‘Now, I wish Mr. Jarndyce and Miss Summerson at least to know that this Jo, who tells so strange a story, has reappeared, and to have it in their power to speak with him if they should desire to do so. Therefore I want to get him, for the present moment, into any poor lodging kept by decent people where he would be admitted. Decent people and Jo, Mr. George,’ says Allan, following the direction of the trooper’s eyes along the entry, ‘have not been much acquainted, as you see. Hence the difficulty. Do you happen to know any one in this neighbourhood who would receive him for a while on my paying for him beforehand?’
“现在，我希望贾迪斯先生和萨默森小姐至少知道这个讲述了如此奇怪故事的乔已经重新出现，并且如果他们愿意的话，可以与他交谈。因此，我想暂时让他住进任何一个由正派人士开办的简陋住所，在那里他可以入住。正直的人们和乔，乔治先生，”艾伦顺着入口处的士兵目光方向说道，“如你所见，他们并不熟悉。因此困难就来了。你碰巧知道附近有谁会因为我预先付钱而接待他一段时间吗？

As he puts the question, he becomes aware of a dirty-faced little man standing at the trooper’s elbow and looking up, with an oddly twisted figure and countenance, into the trooper’s face. After a few more puffs at his pipe, the trooper looks down askant at the little man, and the little man winks up at the trooper.
当他提出问题时，他意识到一个满脸脏兮兮的小个子男人站在士兵的肘部，用一种奇怪的扭曲的身材和面容抬起头来看着士兵的脸。士兵又吸了几口烟斗后，低头斜视着小个子男人，小个子男人向士兵眨了眨眼睛。

‘Well, sir,’ says Mr. George, ‘I can assure you that I would willingiy be knocked on the head at any time if it would be at all agreeable to Miss Summerson, and consequently I esteem it a privilege to do that young lady any service, however small. We are naturally in the vagabond way here, sir, both myself and Phil. You see what the place is. You are welcome to a quiet corner of it for the boy if the same would meet your views. No charge made, except for rations. We are not in a flourishing state of circumstances here, sir. We are liable to be tumbled out neck and crop at a moment’s notice. However, sir, such as the place is, and so long as it lasts, here it is at your service.’
“好吧，先生，”乔治先生说，“我可以向您保证，如果萨默森小姐愿意的话，我随时愿意被人敲头，因此，我认为能做这个年轻人是我的荣幸。”女士提供任何服务，无论多么小。先生，我们在这里自然是流浪者，我和菲尔都是如此。一看就知道是什么地方了如果男孩也能满足您的意见，欢迎您来到男孩的安静角落。除口粮外，不收取任何费用。先生，我们这里的情况并不繁荣。我们很可能会立刻被摔倒。不过，先生，这个地方就是这样，只要它还存在，这里就为您服务。”

With a comprehensive wave of his pipe, Mr. George places the whole building at his visitor’s disposal.
乔治先生全面地挥舞着他的烟斗，将整座建筑交给他的来访者使用。

‘I take it for granted, sir,’ he adds, ‘you being one of the medical staff, that there is no present infection about this unfortunate subject?’
“我认为理所当然，先生，”他补充道，“作为医务人员之一，这个不幸的对象目前没有感染？”

Allan is quite sure of it.
艾伦对此十分确定。

‘Because, sir,’ says Mr. George, shaking his head sorrowfully, ‘we have had enough of that.’
“因为，先生，”乔治先生悲伤地摇摇头，“我们已经受够了。”

His tone is no less sorrowfully echoed by his new acquaintance. ‘Still I am bound to tell you,’ observes Allan after repeating his former assurance, ‘that the boy is deplorably low and reduced and that he may be—I do not say that he is—too far gone to recover.’
他的新朋友也同样悲伤地呼应着他的语气。 “但我还是必须告诉你，”艾伦在重复了他之前的保证后说道，“这孩子的地位低落得可怜，而且他可能——我不是说他——已经走得太远了，无法恢复。”

‘Do you consider him in present danger, sir?’ inquires the trooper.
“您认为他目前处于危险之中吗，长官？”士兵问道。

‘Yes, I fear so.’
“是的，我担心是这样。”

‘Then, sir,’ returns the trooper in a decisive manner, ‘it appears to me—being naturally in the vagabond way myself—that the sooner he comes out of the street, the better. You, Phil! Bring him in!’
“那么，先生，”士兵果断地回答道，“在我看来——我自己天生就是流浪者——他越早从街上出来越好。你，菲尔！带他进来！

Mr. Squod tacks out, all on one side, to execute the word of command; and the trooper, having smoked his pipe, lays it by. Jo is brought in. He is not one of Mrs. Pardiggle’s Tockahoopo Indians; he is not one of Mrs. Jellyby’s lambs, being wholly unconnected with Borrioboola-Gha; he is not softened by distance and unfamiliarity; he is not a genuine foreign-grown savage; he is the ordinary home-made article. Dirty, ugly, disagreeable to all the senses, in body a common creature of the common streets, only in soul a heathen. Homely filth begrimes him, homely parasites devour him, homely sores are in him, homely rags are on him; native ignorance, the growth of English soil and climate, sinks his immortal nature lower than the beasts that perish. Stand forth, Jo, in uncompromising colours! From the sole of thy foot to the crown of thy head, there is nothing interesting about thee.
斯阔德先生在一侧出海执行命令；士兵抽完烟斗，把它放在一边。乔被带进来了。他不是帕迪格夫人的托卡胡波印第安人之一；他是帕迪格夫人的托卡胡波印第安人。他不是杰利比夫人的羔羊之一，与博里奥布拉-加完全没有关系；他不会因距离和陌生而变得软弱；他不是真正的外国野蛮人；他就是普通的自制物品。肮脏、丑陋、令人厌恶，身体上是普通街道上的普通生物，但灵魂上却是异教徒。平凡的污秽玷污了他，平凡的寄生虫吞噬了他，平凡的疮在他身上，平凡的破布在他身上；与生俱来的无知、英国土壤和气候的生长，使他不朽的本性比那些灭亡的野兽还要低沉。乔，以不妥协的色彩站出来！从你的脚底到你的头顶，你没有什么有趣的地方。

He shuffles slowly into Mr. George’s gallery and stands huddled together in a bundle, looking all about the floor. He seems to know that they have an inclination to shrink from him, partly for what he is and partly for what he has caused. He, too, shrinks from them. He is not of the same order of things, not of the same place in creation. He is of no order and no place, neither of the beasts nor of humanity.
他慢慢地走进乔治先生的画廊，站成一团，环视地板。他似乎知道他们倾向于回避他，部分是因为他的身份，部分是因为他造成的后果。他也对他们退缩。他不属于同一秩序的事物，也不属于创造中的同一位置。他不属于任何秩序，也不属于任何地方，既不属于野兽，也不属于人类。

‘Look here, Jo!’ says Allan. ‘This is Mr. George.’
“看这里，乔！”艾伦说。 “这是乔治先生。”

Jo searches the floor for some time longer, then looks up for a moment, and then down again.
乔在地板上又搜索了一段时间，然后抬头看了一会儿，然后又低下头。

‘He is a kind friend to you, for he is going to give you lodging room here.’
“他是你的好朋友，因为他会在这里给你提供住宿。”

Jo makes a scoop with one hand, which is supposed to be a bow. After a little more consideration and some backing and changing of the foot on which he rests, he mutters that he is ‘wery thankful.’
乔用一只手做了一个勺子，这应该是一把弓。经过更多的考虑、一些支持和改变他所休息的脚之后，他低声说他“非常感激”。

‘You are quite safe here. All you have to do at present is to be obedient and to get strong. And mind you tell us the truth here, whatever you do, Jo.’
‘你在这里很安全。现在你要做的就是顺从，坚强起来。请注意，无论你做什么，请在这里告诉我们真相，乔。”

‘Wishermaydie if I don’t, sir,’ says Jo, reverting to his favourite declaration. ‘I never done nothink yit, but wot you knows on, to get myself into no trouble. I never was in no other trouble at all, sir, ‘sept not knowin’ nothink and starwation.’
“如果我不这样做的话，先生，”乔说道，又回到了他最喜欢的宣言。 “我从来没有做过任何事，但你知道吗，为了不让自己陷入麻烦。先生，我从来没有遇到过任何其他麻烦，‘不知道’没有思考和星际状态。”

‘I believe it, now attend to Mr. George. I see he is going to speak to you.’
“我相信，现在去听乔治先生吧。”我看他要跟你说话。

‘My intention merely was, sir,’ observes Mr. George, amazingly broad and upright, ‘to point out to him where he can lie down and get a thorough good dose of sleep. Now, look here.’ As the trooper speaks, he conducts them to the other end of the gallery and opens one of the little cabins. ‘There you are, you see! Here is a mattress, and here you may rest, on good behaviour, as long as Mr., I ask your pardon, sir’—he refers apologetically to the card Allan has given him—‘Mr. Woodcourt pleases. Don’t you be alarmed if you hear shots; they’ll be aimed at the target, and not you. Now, there’s another thing I would recommend, sir,’ says the trooper, turning to his visitor. ‘Phil, come here!’
“我的目​​的只是，先生，”乔治先生说，他的身体宽阔而挺拔，令人惊讶，“向他指出哪里可以躺下，让他睡个好觉。”现在，看这里。”士兵一边说话，一边把他们带到走廊的另一端，打开其中一间小木屋。 ‘你瞧，就在这儿！这是一张床垫，如果您表现良好，您可以在这里休息，只要先生，请您原谅，先生”——他带着歉意地指着艾伦给他的卡片——“先生。”伍德考特很高兴。如果听到枪声，请不要惊慌；他们会瞄准目标，而不是你。现在，我要推荐另一件事，长官，”士兵转向他的访客说道。 “菲尔，过来！”

Phil bears down upon them according to his usual tactics. ‘Here is a man, sir, who was found, when a baby, in the gutter. Consequently, it is to be expected that he takes a natural interest in this poor creature. You do, don’t you, Phil?’
菲尔按照他一贯的策略向他们发起进攻。 “先生，这是一个人，当他还是个婴儿时，就在阴沟里被发现了。因此，可以预料他会对这个可怜的生物产生天然的兴趣。你知道，不是吗，菲尔？

‘Certainly and surely I do, guv’ner,’ is Phil’s reply.
“我当然愿意，领导，”菲尔回答道。

‘Now I was thinking, sir,’ says Mr. George in a martial sort of confidence, as if he were giving his opinion in a council of war at a drum-head, ‘that if this man was to take him to a bath and was to lay out a few shillings in getting him one or two coarse articles—‘
“现在我在想，先生，”乔治先生以一种军事般的自信说道，就好像他在战争会议上大声发表自己的意见，“如果这个人带他去洗澡并要花几先令给他买一两件粗品——”

‘Mr. George, my considerate friend,’ returns Allan, taking out his purse, ‘it is the very favour I would have asked.’
'先生。乔治，我体贴的朋友，”艾伦拿出钱包回答道，“这正是我想要的。”

Phil Squod and Jo are sent out immediately on this work of improvement. Miss Flite, quite enraptured by her success, makes the best of her way to court, having great fears that otherwise her friend the Chancellor may be uneasy about her or may give the judgment she has so long expected in her absence, and observing ‘which you know, my dear physician, and general, after so many years, would be too absurdly unfortunate!’ Allan takes the opportunity of going out to procure some restorative medicines, and obtaining them near at hand, soon returns to find the trooper walking up and down the gallery, and to fall into step and walk with him.
Phil Squod 和 Jo 立即被派去进行这项改进工作。弗利特小姐对自己的成功感到非常欣喜，她尽最大努力去法庭，她非常担心，否则她的朋友大法官可能会对她感到不安，或者可能会在她缺席的情况下做出她期待已久的判断，并观察到“你知道吗，我亲爱的医生和将军，这么多年过去了，真是太不幸了！”艾伦趁着出去采购一些恢复性药物的机会，在手边拿到了它们，很快回来，发现士兵走了过来。沿着走廊，与他并肩同行。

‘I take it, sir,’ says Mr. George, ‘that you know Miss Summerson pretty well?’
“我想，先生，”乔治先生说，“您很了解萨默森小姐吧？”

Yes, it appears.
是的，看来是的。

‘Not related to her, sir?’
“先生，和她没有关系吗？”

No, it appears.
不，看来。

‘Excuse the apparent curiosity,’ says Mr. George. ‘It seemed to me probable that you might take more than a common interest in this poor creature because Miss Summerson had taken that unfortunate interest in him. ‘Tis MY case, sir, I assure you.’
“请原谅你明显的好奇心，”乔治先生说。 “在我看来，你对这个可怜的家伙的兴趣可能不仅仅是一般的兴趣，因为萨默森小姐对他产生了这种不幸的兴趣。 “这就是我的情况，先生，我向你保证。”

‘And mine, Mr. George.’
“还有我的，乔治先生。”

The trooper looks sideways at Allan’s sunburnt cheek and bright dark eye, rapidly measures his height and build, and seems to approve of him.
士兵侧身看着艾伦晒黑的脸颊和明亮的黑眼睛，迅速测量了他的身高和体格，似乎很认可他。

‘Since you have been out, sir, I have been thinking that I unquestionably know the rooms in Lincoln’s Inn Fields, where Bucket took the lad, according to his account. Though he is not acquainted with the name, I can help you to it. It’s Tulkinghorn. That’s what it is.’
“自从您出去之后，先生，我一直在想，毫无疑问，我知道林肯客栈场的房间，根据巴克特的说法，巴克特就是在那里带走了小伙子的。虽然他不熟悉这个名字，但我可以帮助你。这是图尔金霍恩。就是这样。

Allan looks at him inquiringly, repeating the name.
艾伦询问地看着他，重复着这个名字。

‘Tulkinghorn. That’s the name, sir. I know the man, and know him to have been in communication with Bucket before, respecting a deceased person who had given him offence. I know the man, sir. To my sorrow.’
“图尔金霍恩。就是这个名字，先生。我认识这个人，也知道他以前曾与巴克特有过交流，尊重一位冒犯了他的死者。我认识这个人，先生。令我悲伤的是。

Allan naturally asks what kind of man he is.
艾伦自然会问他是一个什么样的人。

‘What kind of man! Do you mean to look at?’
‘什么样的人啊！你想看吗？

‘I think I know that much of him. I mean to deal with. Generally, what kind of man?’
“我想我对他很了解。我的意思是处理。一般来说，什么样的人？

‘Why, then I’ll tell you, sir,’ returns the trooper, stopping short and folding his arms on his square chest so angrily that his face fires and flushes all over; ‘he is a confoundedly bad kind of man. He is a slow-torturing kind of man. He is no more like flesh and blood than a rusty old carbine is. He is a kind of man—by George!—that has caused me more restlessness, and more uneasiness, and more dissatisfaction with myself than all other men put together. That’s the kind of man Mr. Tulkinghorn is!’
“为什么，那我就告诉你，长官，”士兵回答道，他突然停了下来，双臂交叉放在方正的胸前，他的脸火红、通红。 ‘他是一个极其糟糕的人。他是一个慢慢折磨人的人。他不像一把生锈的旧卡宾枪那样有血有肉。他是这样一种人——乔治！——比所有其他人加起来更令我不安、不安和对自己更加不满。图金霍恩先生就是这样的人！

‘I am sorry,’ says Allan, ‘to have touched so sore a place.’
“我很抱歉，”艾伦说，“触动了如此疼痛的地方。”

‘Sore?’ The trooper plants his legs wider apart, wets the palm of his broad right hand, and lays it on the imaginary moustache. ‘It’s no fault of yours, sir; but you shall judge. He has got a power over me. He is the man I spoke of just now as being able to tumble me out of this place neck and crop. He keeps me on a constant see-saw. He won’t hold off, and he won’t come on. If I have a payment to make him, or time to ask him for, or anything to go to him about, he don’t see me, don’t hear me—passes me on to Melchisedech’s in Clifford’s Inn, Melchisedech’s in Clifford’s Inn passes me back again to him—he keeps me prowling and dangling about him as if I was made of the same stone as himself. Why, I spend half my life now, pretty well, loitering and dodging about his door. What does he care? Nothing. Just as much as the rusty old carbine I have compared him to. He chafes and goads me till— Bah! Nonsense! I am forgetting myself. Mr. Woodcourt,’ the trooper resumes his march, ‘all I say is, he is an old man; but I am glad I shall never have the chance of setting spurs to my horse and riding at him in a fair field. For if I had that chance, in one of the humours he drives me into—he’d go down, sir!’
“疼吗？”士兵把双腿分开，弄湿宽大的右手手掌，放在想象中的小胡子上。 “这不是你的错，先生；但你要判断。他对我有权力。他就是我刚才提到的那个能够把我从这个地方摔下来的人。他让我一直处于拉锯状态。他不会拖延，也不会继续前进。如果我要付钱给他，或者有时间向他要，或者有什么事情要去找他，他就看不到我，也听不到我——把我带到克利福德旅馆的麦基洗德店，克利福德店的麦基洗德店。又把我传回给他——他让我在他身边徘徊、晃来晃去，就好像我和他是同一块石头做的一样。哎呀，我现在的半辈子都在他的门口徘徊、躲闪，过得很好。他关心什么？没有什么。就像我把他比作生锈的旧卡宾枪一样。他不断地激怒我，直到——呸！废话！我快忘记我自己了。伍德考特先生，”士兵继续行军，“我只想说，他是个老人；他是个老人。但我很高兴我再也没有机会在公平的田野上策马驰骋了。因为如果我有这个机会，在他驱使我进入的一种幽默中——他就会倒下，先生！”

Mr. George has been so excited that he finds it necessary to wipe his forehead on his shirt-sleeve. Even while he whistles his impetuosity away with the national anthem, some involuntary shakings of his head and heavings of his chest still linger behind, not to mention an occasional hasty adjustment with both hands of his open shirt-collar, as if it were scarcely open enough to prevent his being troubled by a choking sensation. In short, Allan Woodcourt has not much doubt about the going down of Mr. Tulkinghorn on the field referred to.
乔治先生太兴奋了，他发现有必要用衬衫袖子擦擦额头。尽管他吹着国歌的口哨消除了自己的浮躁，但他的一些不自觉的摇头和胸口的起伏仍然在后面挥之不去，更不用说偶尔用两只敞开的衬衫领子匆匆调整了一下，好像它几乎没有打开一样。足以防止他被窒息的感觉所困扰。简而言之，艾伦·伍德考特对于图尔金霍恩先生在上述领域的倒下并没有太多怀疑。

Jo and his conductor presently return, and Jo is assisted to his mattress by the careful Phil, to whom, after due administration of medicine by his own hands, Allan confides all needful means and instructions. The morning is by this time getting on apace. He repairs to his lodgings to dress and breakfast, and then, without seeking rest, goes away to Mr. Jarndyce to communicate his discovery.
乔和他的售票员很快就回来了，乔在细心的菲尔的帮助下回到了床垫上，在亲手给予适当的药物后，艾伦向菲尔透露了所有必要的方法和指示。早晨的时间过得很快。他回到住处穿好衣服，吃完早餐，然后没有休息，就去找贾迪斯先生，告诉他他的发现。

With him Mr. Jarndyce returns alone, confidentially telling him that there are reasons for keeping this matter very quiet indeed and showing a serious interest in it. To Mr. Jarndyce, Jo repeats in substance what he said in the morning, without any material variation. Only that cart of his is heavier to draw, and draws with a hollower sound.
贾迪斯先生独自一人回来，并秘密地告诉他，确实有理由对这件事保持秘密，并对它表现出浓厚的兴趣。对于贾迪斯先生，乔实质上重复了他早上所说的话，没有任何实质性变化。只是他的那辆小车拉起来比较重，拉起来的声音也比较空洞。

‘Let me lay here quiet and not be chivied no more,’ falters Jo, ‘and be so kind any person as is a-passin nigh where I used fur to sleep, as jist to say to Mr. Sangsby that Jo, wot he known once, is a-moving on right forards with his duty, and I’ll be wery thankful. I’d be more thankful than I am aready if it wos any ways possible for an unfortnet to be it.’
“让我安静地躺在这里，不要再被人欺负了，”乔支支吾吾地说，“对我睡觉的地方附近的任何人都要友善，就像对桑斯比先生说的那样，乔，他在吗？”曾经知道，他正在履行自己的职责，我将非常感激。如果有任何可能成为不幸的网络，我会更加感激。

He makes so many of these references to the law-stationer in the course of a day or two that Allan, after conferring with Mr. Jarndyce, good-naturedly resolves to call in Cook’s Court, the rather, as the cart seems to be breaking down.
他在一两天内多次提到法律文具员，以至于艾伦在与贾迪斯先生商量后，善意地决定去库克法院，更确切地说，因为车似乎坏了向下。

To Cook’s Court, therefore, he repairs. Mr. Snagsby is behind his counter in his grey coat and sleeves, inspecting an indenture of several skins which has just come in from the engrosser’s, an immense desert of law-hand and parchment, with here and there a resting-place of a few large letters to break the awful monotony and save the traveller from despair. Mr Snagsby puts up at one of these inky wells and greets the stranger with his cough of general preparation for business.
因此，他前往库克宫进行修复。斯纳格斯比先生穿着灰色的外套和袖子，站在柜台后面，检查一张刚从吸纳者那里运来的几张兽皮的契约，这是一片巨大的法律手和羊皮纸沙漠，到处都有一些人的休息处。大字母打破了可怕的单调，让旅行者免于绝望。斯纳格斯比先生在其中一口漆黑的井旁驻足，用咳嗽声向陌生人打招呼，一副准备做生意的样子。

‘You don’t remember me, Mr. Snagsby?’
“你不记得我了，斯纳斯比先生？”

The stationer’s heart begins to thump heavily, for his old apprehensions have never abated. It is as much as he can do to answer, ‘No, sir, I can’t say I do. I should have considered—not to put too fine a point upon it—that I never saw you before, sir.’
文具店老板的心开始重重地跳动，因为他过去的忧虑从未减轻。他只能回答：‘不，先生，我不能说我愿意。我应该考虑到——不要过分强调——我以前从未见过你，先生。

‘Twice before,’ says Allan Woodcourt. ‘Once at a poor bedside, and once—‘
“以前两次，”艾伦·伍德考特说。 “有一次在一个贫穷的床边，还有一次——”

‘It’s come at last!’ thinks the afflicted stationer, as recollection breaks upon him. ‘It’s got to a head now and is going to burst!’ But he has sufficient presence of mind to conduct his visitor into the little counting-house and to shut the door.
“终于来了！”痛苦的文具店主回忆起来，心想。 “现在已经到了紧要关头，快要破裂了！”但他有足够的头脑，带着客人走进小会计室，并关上了门。

‘Are you a married man, sir?’
“您是已婚男人吗，先生？”

‘No, I am not.’
'不我不是。'

‘Would you make the attempt, though single,’ says Mr. Snagsby in a melancholy whisper, ‘to speak as low as you can? For my little woman is a-listening somewheres, or I’ll forfeit the business and five hundred pound!’
“尽管你单身，”斯纳斯比先生忧郁地低声说道，“你会尝试尽可能低声说话吗？”因为我的小女人在某个地方正在倾听，否则我将失去生意和五百英镑！

In deep dejection Mr. Snagsby sits down on his stool, with his back against his desk, protesting, ‘I never had a secret of my own, sir. I can’t charge my memory with ever having once attempted to deceive my little woman on my own account since she named the day. I wouldn’t have done it, sir. Not to put too fine a point upon it, I couldn’t have done it, I dursn’t have done it. Whereas, and nevertheless, I find myself wrapped round with secrecy and mystery, till my life is a burden to me.’
斯纳斯比先生非常沮丧地坐在凳子上，背靠着桌子，抗议道：“我从来没有自己的秘密，先生。”自从她命名这一天以来，我无法回忆起曾经试图以我自己的名义欺骗我的小女人。我不会这么做的，先生。不夸张地说，我做不到，我也不敢做。然而，尽管如此，我发现自己被秘密和神秘所包围，直到我的生活成为我的负担。

His visitor professes his regret to bear it and asks him does he remember Jo. Mr. Snagsby answers with a suppressed groan, oh, don’t he!
他的来访者承认自己很遗憾承受这一切，并问他还记得乔吗？斯纳斯比先生压抑着呻吟声回答道，哦，不是吗！

‘You couldn’t name an individual human being—except myself—that my little woman is more set and determined against than Jo,’ says Mr. Snagsby.
斯纳格斯比先生说，“除了我自己，你找不到一个人比乔更坚决地反对我的小女人。”

Allan asks why.
艾伦问为什么。

‘Why?’ repeats Mr. Snagsby, in his desperation clutching at the clump of hair at the back of his bald head. ‘How should 1 know why? But you are a single person, sir, and may you long be spared to ask a married person such a question!’
“为什么？”斯纳斯比先生重复道，他绝望地抓着光头后面的一缕头发。 ‘我怎么知道为什么呢？但先生，您是单身人士，愿您永远不用问已婚人士这样的问题！”

With this beneficent wish, Mr. Snagsby coughs a cough of dismal resignation and submits himself to hear what the visitor has to communicate.
带着这个善意的愿望，斯纳斯比先生沮丧地无奈地咳嗽了一声，然后听听来访者要传达的信息。

‘There again!’ says Mr. Snagsby, who, between the earnestness of his feelings and the suppressed tones of his voice is discoloured in the face. ‘At it again, in a new direction! A certain person charges me, in the solemnest way, not to talk of Jo to any one, even my little woman. Then comes another certain person, in the person of yourself, and charges me, in an equally solemn way, not to mention Jo to that other certain person above all other persons. Why, this is a private asylum! Why, not to put too fine a point upon it, this is Bedlam, sir!’ says Mr. Snagsby.
“又来了！”斯纳斯比先生说，由于他的感情真挚，声音压抑，他的脸色变得苍白。 ‘再次出发，朝着新的方向！有人郑重地嘱咐我不要向任何人谈论乔，即使是我的小女人。然后另一个特定的人以你的身份出现，以同样严肃的方式责备我，更不用说向那个特定的人提到乔了。为什么，这是私人庇护所！哎呀，别说得太过分了，这就是疯人院，先生！”斯纳斯比先生说道。

But it is better than he expected after all, being no explosion of the mine below him or deepening of the pit into which he has fallen. And being tender-hearted and affected by the account he hears of Jo’s condition, he readily engages to ‘look round’ as early in the evening as he can manage it quietly. He looks round very quietly when the evening comes, but it may turn out that Mrs. Snagsby is as quiet a manager as he.
但这毕竟比他预想的要好，因为他下面的地雷没有爆炸，他所掉的坑也没有加深。听到乔的病情后，他心地善良，深受感动，很乐意在晚上尽早“环顾四周”，只要他能安静地处理这件事。夜幕降临时，他非常安静地四处张望，但事实可能是，斯纳斯比夫人和他一样是一位安静的经理。

Jo is very glad to see his old friend and says, when they are left alone, that he takes it uncommon kind as Mr. Sangsby should come so far out of his way on accounts of sich as him. Mr. Snagsby, touched by the spectacle before him, immediately lays upon the table half a crown, that magic balsam of his for all kinds of wounds.
乔很高兴见到他的老朋友，并说，当他们独处时，他认为桑斯比先生为了像他这样的人而特意走这么远，这很不寻常。斯纳斯比先生被眼前的景象所感动，立即在桌子上放了半克朗，这是他治疗各种伤口的神奇香脂。

‘And how do you find yourself, my poor lad?’ inquires the stationer with his cough of sympathy.
“你觉得自己怎么样了，我可怜的小伙子？”文具店老板同情地咳嗽了一声问道。

‘I am in luck, Mr. Sangsby, I am,’ returns Jo, ‘and don’t want for nothink. I’m more cumfbler nor you can’t think. Mr. Sangsby! I’m wery sorry that I done it, but I didn’t go fur to do it, sir.’
“我很幸运，桑斯比先生，我很幸运，”乔回答道，“而且不想白费力气。”我比较笨，你也不能思考。桑斯比先生！我很抱歉我这么做了，但我并没有这么做，先生。”

The stationer softly lays down another half-crown and asks him what it is that he is sorry for having done.
文具店老板轻声地又放下了半克朗，问他为自己做了什么而感到抱歉。

‘Mr. Sangsby,’ says Jo, ‘I went and giv a illness to the lady as wos and yit as warn’t the t’other lady, and none of ‘em never says nothink to me for having done it, on accounts of their being ser good and my having been s’unfortnet. The lady come herself and see me yesday, and she ses, ‘Ah, Jo!’ she ses. ‘We thought we’d lost you, Jo!’ she ses. And she sits down a-smilin so quiet, and don’t pass a word nor yit a look upon me for having done it, she don’t, and I turns agin the wall, I doos, Mr. Sangsby. And Mr. Jarnders, I see him a-forced to turn away his own self. And Mr. Woodcot, he come fur to giv me somethink fur to ease me, wot he’s allus a-doin’ on day and night, and wen he come a-bending over me and a-speakin up so bold, I see his tears a-fallin, Mr. Sangsby.’
'先生。桑斯比，”乔说，“我去给这位女士带来了一场疾病，就像其他女士一样，他们中没有一个人从来没有对我做过这件事说不，因为他们是很好，我一直很不幸。昨天那位女士亲自来见我，她说：“啊，乔！”她说。 “我们以为我们失去了你，乔！”她说道。她安静地微笑着坐下来，没有说一句话，也没有看我一眼，因为我做了这件事，她没有，我转身靠墙，我愿意，桑斯比先生。还有贾恩德斯先生，我看到他被迫放弃自己。还有伍德科特先生，他来给我一些让我放松的东西，他日日夜夜都在做，当他弯下腰来，如此大胆地说话时，我看到他的眼泪摔倒了，桑斯比先生。

The softened stationer deposits another half-crown on the table. Nothing less than a repetition of that infallible remedy will relieve his feelings.
软化的文具又把半克朗放在桌子上。只有重复这种万无一失的疗法才能缓解他的情绪。

‘Wot I was a-thinkin on, Mr. Sangsby,’ proceeds Jo, ‘wos, as you wos able to write wery large, p’raps?’
“我在想什么，桑斯比先生，”乔继续说道，“你能写很大的字吗？”

‘Yes, Jo, please God,’ returns the stationer.
“是的，乔，上帝保佑，”文具店老板回答道。

‘Uncommon precious large, p’raps?’ says Jo with eagerness.
“难得一见的珍贵大号，好吗？”乔热切地说。

‘Yes, my poor boy.’
“是的，我可怜的孩子。”

Jo laughs with pleasure. ‘Wot I wos a-thinking on then, Mr. Sangsby, wos, that when I wos moved on as fur as ever I could go and couldn’t he moved no furder, whether you might be so good p’raps as to write out, wery large so that any one could see it anywheres, as that I wos wery truly hearty sorry that I done it and that I never went fur to do it, and that though I didn’t know nothink at all, I knowd as Mr. Woodcot once cried over it and wos allus grieved over it, and that I hoped as he’d be able to forgive me in his mind. If the writin could be made to say it wery large, he might.’
乔高兴地笑了。 “当时我在想，桑斯比先生，当我尽可能地继续前进时，他就不能再继续前进，无论你是否会写得这么好？”外面很大，任何人都可以在任何地方看到它，因为我真的很抱歉我做了这件事，而且我从来没有去做这件事，虽然我根本不知道任何想法，但我知道伍德科特先生曾经为此哭泣过，我们也为此感到悲伤，我希望他能够在心里原谅我。如果文字可以说它很大，他可能会。

‘It shall say it, Jo. Very large.’
“它会这么说的，乔。很大。'

Jo laughs again. ‘Thankee, Mr. Sangsby. It’s wery kind of you, sir, and it makes me more cumfbler nor I was afore.’
乔又笑了。 “谢谢，桑斯比先生。先生，您真是太好了，这让我变得比以前更笨拙了。

The meek little stationer, with a broken and unfinished cough, slips down his fourth half-crown—he has never been so close to a case requiring so many—and is fain to depart. And Jo and he, upon this little earth, shall meet no more. No more.
温顺的小文具店员咳嗽了一声，没说完，放下了他的第四枚半冠——他从来没有如此接近过一个需要这么多硬币的箱子——然后准备离开。乔和他，在这个小小的地球上，将不会再见面了。不再。

For the cart so hard to draw is near its journey’s end and drags over stony ground. All round the clock it labours up the broken steps, shattered and worn. Not many times can the sun rise and behold it still upon its weary road.
因为这辆很难拉的车快要到达终点了，拖着石头地面。它昼夜不停地在破碎、破旧的台阶上艰难前行。太阳升起并看到它仍然走在疲惫的道路上的次数并不多。

Phil Squod, with his smoky gunpowder visage, at once acts as nurse and works as armourer at his little table in a corner, often looking round and saying with a nod of his green-baize cap and an encouraging elevation of his one eyebrow, ‘Hold up, my boy! Hold up!’ There, too, is Mr. Jarndyce many a time, and Allan Woodcourt almost always, both thinking, much, how strangely fate has entangled this rough outcast in the web of very different lives. There, too, the trooper is a frequent visitor, filling the doorway with his athletic figure and, from his superfluity of life and strength, seeming to shed down temporary vigour upon Jo, who never fails to speak more robustly in answer to his cheerful words.
菲尔·斯阔德（Phil Squod）有着一张烟熏火药般的面容，他在角落里的小桌子上既担任护士，又担任军械师，他时常环顾四周，戴着绿色毛呢帽，点点头，鼓励性地扬起一根眉毛，说道：坚持住，我的孩子！站住！”贾迪斯先生也多次出现在场，艾伦·伍德考特几乎总是在想，命运是多么奇怪地将这个粗鲁的被遗弃者卷入了截然不同的生活的网络中。那里的士兵也是这里的常客，他的运动员般的身材占据了门口，由于他过剩的生命和力量，似乎给乔带来了暂时的活力，而乔总是用更强有力的语气来回答他欢快的话语。 。

Jo is in a sleep or in a stupor to-day, and Allan Woodcourt, newly arrived, stands by him, looking down upon his wasted form. After a while he softly seats himself upon the bedside with his face towards him—just as he sat in the law-writer’s room—and touches his chest and heart. The cart had very nearly given up, but labours on a little more.
乔今天正在睡觉或处于昏迷状态，新来的艾伦·伍德考特站在他身边，俯视着他虚弱的身体。过了一会儿，他轻轻地坐在床边，脸朝向他——就像他坐在法律作家的房间里一样——抚摸着他的胸口和心脏。推车几乎要放弃了，但还继续努力。

The trooper stands in the doorway, still and silent. Phil has stopped in a low clinking noise, with his little hammer in his hand. Mr. Woodcourt looks round with that grave professional interest and attention on his face, and glancing significantly at the trooper, signs to Phil to carry his table out. When the little hammer is next used, there will be a speck of rust upon it.
警察站在门口，一动不动，一言不发。菲尔手里拿着小锤子，发出一声低沉的叮当声停了下来。伍德考特先生环顾四周，脸上带着严肃的职业兴趣和专注，他意味深长地看了一眼警察，示意菲尔把他的桌子搬出去。当小锤下次使用时，上面会出现一粒锈迹。

‘Well, Jo! What is the matter? Don’t be frightened.’
‘好吧，乔！什么事？不要害怕。

‘I thought,’ says Jo, who has started and is looking round, ‘I thought I was in Tom-all-Alone’s agin. Ain’t there nobody here but you, Mr. Woodcot?’
“我想，”乔说，她开始环顾四周，“我以为我是在《汤姆孤身一人》中。”伍德科特先生，这里除了你之外没有人吗？

‘Nobody.’
'没有人。'

‘And I ain’t took back to Tom-all-Alone’s. Am I, sir?’
“而且我也没有回到汤姆孤身一人的地方。”我是吗，先生？

‘No.’ Jo closes his eyes, muttering, ‘I’m wery thankful.’
“不。”乔闭上眼睛，嘀咕道，“我非常感激。”

After watching him closely a little while, Allan puts his mouth very near his ear and says to him in a low, distinct voice, ‘Jo! Did you ever know a prayer?’
仔细观察了他一会儿，艾伦把嘴凑到他耳边，低沉而清晰地对他说：“乔！”你知道祈祷吗？

‘Never knowd nothink, sir.’
“从来不知道，先生。”

‘Not so much as one short prayer?’
“连一个简短的祈祷都没有吗？”

‘No, sir. Nothink at all. Mr. Chadbands he wos a-prayin wunst at Mr. Sangsby’s and I heerd him, but he sounded as if he wos aspeakin to hisself, and not to me. He prayed a lot, but I couldn’t make out nothink on it. Different times there was other genlmen come down Tom-all-Alone’s a-prayin, but they all mostly sed as the t’other ‘wuns prayed wrong, and all mostly sounded to be a-talking to theirselves, or a-passing blame on the t’others, and not atalkin to us. WE never knowd nothink. I never knowd what it wos all about.’
'不，先生。一点也不想。查德先生说他在桑斯比先生那里祈祷，我听到了他的声音，但他听起来好像是在自言自语，而不是对我说话。他祈祷了很多，但我却看不出有什么想法。不同的时候，还有其他绅士来到汤姆独自祈祷，但他们大多都是因为其他“巫师”祈祷错误而发出声音，而且所有这些听起来大多是在自言自语，或者将责任推卸给自己其他人，而不是对我们说话。我们从来不知道任何想法。我从来不知道这是怎么回事。

It takes him a long time to say this, and few but an experienced and attentive listener could hear, or, hearing, understand him. After a short relapse into sleep or stupor, he makes, of a sudden, a strong effort to get out of bed.
他花了很长时间才说出这句话，除了经验丰富、细心的听众之外，很少有人能听懂他的话，或者听懂他的话。在短暂地重新进入睡眠或昏迷状态后，他突然极力想要起床。

‘Stay, Jo! What now?’
“留下来，乔！现在怎么办？'

‘It’s time for me to go to that there berryin ground, sir,’ he returns with a wild look.
“先生，我该去那片浆果地了，”他带着狂野的表情回答道。

‘Lie down, and tell me. What burying ground, Jo?’
‘躺下，告诉我。什么墓地，乔？

‘Where they laid him as wos wery good to me, wery good to me indeed, he wos. It’s time fur me to go down to that there berryin ground, sir, and ask to be put along with him. I wants to go there and be berried. He used fur to say to me, ‘I am as poor as you today, Jo,’ he ses. I wants to tell him that I am as poor as him now and have come there to be laid along with him.’
“他们把他安置在对我很好的地方，确实对我很好，他真的很好。”先生，是时候让我去那片浆果地，请求和他一起住了。我想去那里采摘浆果。他用毛皮对我说：“乔，我今天和你一样穷。”他这样说道。我想告诉他，我现在和他一样穷，来到这里是为了和他一起安息。”

‘By and by, Jo. By and by.’
“慢慢来，乔。渐渐地。’

‘Ah! P’raps they wouldn’t do it if I wos to go myself. But will you promise to have me took there, sir, and laid along with him?’
'啊！如果我自己不去的话，他们可能不会这么做。但先生，您能答应把我带到那里，和他一起躺下吗？

‘I will, indeed.’
“我确实会的。”

‘Thankee, sir. Thankee, sir. They’ll have to get the key of the gate afore they can take me in, for it’s allus locked. And there’s a step there, as I used for to clean with my broom. It’s turned wery dark, sir. Is there any light a-comin?’
“谢谢，先生。谢谢，先生。他们必须先拿到大门的钥匙才能带我进去，因为门已经锁上了。那里有一个台阶，就像我以前用扫帚清洁一样。天已经黑了，先生。有光来吗？

‘It is coming fast, Jo.’
“来得很快，乔。”

Fast. The cart is shaken all to pieces, and the rugged road is very near its end.
快速地。大车被摇得粉碎，崎岖的道路已接近尽头。

‘Jo, my poor fellow!’
“乔，我可怜的家伙！”

‘I hear you, sir, in the dark, but I’m a-gropin—a-gropin—let me catch hold of your hand.’
“我在黑暗中听到了你的声音，先生，但我是一只小兔子——一只小兔子——让我抓住你的手。”

‘Jo, can you say what I say?’
“乔，你能说出我说的话吗？”

‘I’ll say anythink as you say, sir, for I knows it’s good.’
“我会按照你说的做任何事，先生，因为我知道这很好。”

‘Our Father.’
“我们的父亲。”

‘Our Father! Yes, that’s wery good, sir.’
‘我们的父亲！是的，那很好，先生。”

‘Which art in heaven.’
“天堂里的艺术。”

‘Art in heaven—is the light a-comin, sir?’
“天堂里的艺术——光来了吗，先生？”

‘It is close at hand. Hallowed by thy name!’
‘它就在眼前。愿人都尊你的名为圣！’

‘Hallowed be—thy—‘
“愿你的——”

The light is come upon the dark benighted way. Dead!
光明已经照耀在黑暗的道路上。死的！

Dead, your Majesty. Dead, my lords and gentlemen. Dead, right reverends and wrong reverends of every order. Dead, men and women, born with heavenly compassion in your hearts. And dying thus around us every day.
死了，陛下。死了，我的大人，先生们。死了，每个教派的正确牧师和错误牧师。死去的男人和女人，生来心中就怀有天堂般的慈悲。我们每天就这样死去。

CHAPTER XLVIII
第四十八章


Closing in
逼进

The place in Lincolnshire has shut its many eyes again, and the house in town is awake. In Lincolnshire the Dedlocks of the past doze in their picture-frames, and the low wind murmurs through the long drawing-room as if they were breathing pretty regularly. In town the Dedlocks of the present rattle in their fire-eyed carriages through the darkness of the night, and the Dedlock Mercuries, with ashes (or hair-powder) on their heads, symptomatic of their great humility, loll away the drowsy mornings in the little windows of the hall. The fashionable world—tremendous orb, nearly five miles round—is in full swing, and the solar system works respectfully at its appointed distances.
林肯郡的人们再次闭上了眼睛，镇上的房子也苏醒了。在林肯郡，过去的戴德洛克夫妇在相框里打瞌睡，低风在长长的客厅里低语，仿佛他们的呼吸很有规律。在城里，现在的戴德洛克人在他们火眼金睛的马车里嘎嘎作响地穿过夜晚的黑暗，而戴德洛克水星人则头上撒着骨灰（或发粉），表现出他们极大的谦卑，懒洋洋地度过了昏昏欲睡的早晨。大厅的小窗户。时尚世界——近五英里圆的巨大球体——正在如火如荼地进行，太阳系在其指定的距离上恭敬地运转。

Where the throng is thickest, where the lights are brightest, where all the senses are ministered to with the greatest delicacy and refinement, Lady Dedlock is. From the shining heights she has scaled and taken, she is never absent. Though the belief she of old reposed in herself as one able to reserve whatsoever she would under her mantle of pride is beaten down, though she has no assurance that what she is to those around her she will remain another day, it is not in her nature when envious eyes are looking on to yield or to droop. They say of her that she has lately grown more handsome and more haughty. The debilitated cousin says of her that she’s beauty nough—tsetup shopofwomen—but rather larming kind—remindingmanfact—inconvenient woman—who WILL getoutofbedandbawthstahlishment—Shakespeare.
人群最密集的地方，灯光最亮的地方，所有感官都得到最精致和精致的服务的地方，就是戴德洛克夫人。从她所攀登和取得的辉煌高度来看，她从未缺席。虽然她过去相信自己能够在骄傲的外衣下保留自己想要保留的一切，但这种信念已经被打倒了，虽然她不能保证自己对周围人来说会是什么样子，但那并不在她的内心。当嫉妒的眼睛看着屈服或垂下时，自然。他们说她最近变得更英俊、更傲慢了。虚弱的表弟谈到她时说，她足够美丽——女人的商店——但相当令人惊叹的善良——提醒男人事实——不方便的女人——她会起床并恢复健康——莎士比亚。

Mr. Tulkinghorn says nothing, looks nothing. Now, as heretofore, he is to be found in doorways of rooms, with his limp white cravat loosely twisted into its old-fashioned tie, receiving patronage from the peerage and making no sign. Of all men he is still the last who might be supposed to have any influence upon my Lady. Of all woman she is still the last who might be supposed to have any dread of him.
图金霍恩先生什么也没说，看上去也没什么表情。现在，和以前一样，他出现在房间的门口，柔软的白色领巾松散地扭成老式领带，接受贵族的惠顾，但没有任何迹象。在所有男人中，他仍然是最后一个可能对夫人产生影响的人。在所有女人中，她仍然是最不应该害怕他的人。

One thing has been much on her mind since their late interview in his turret-room at Chesney Wold. She is now decided, and prepared to throw it off.
自从他们在切斯尼沃尔德的塔楼房间里接受采访后，一件事一直萦绕在她的心头。她现在已经决定了，并准备抛弃它。

It is morning in the great world, afternoon according to the little sun. The Mercuries, exhausted by looking out of window, are reposing in the hall and hang their heavy heads, the gorgeous creatures, like overblown sunflowers. Like them, too, they seem to run to a deal of seed in their tags and trimmings. Sir Leicester, in the library, has fallen asleep for the good of the country over the report of a Parliamentary committee. My Lady sits in the room in which she gave audience to the young man of the name of Guppy. Rosa is with her and has been writing for her and reading to her. Rosa is now at work upon embroidery or some such pretty thing, and as she bends her head over it, my Lady watches her in silence. Not for the first time to-day.
大世界是早晨，小太阳是下午。水星们疲惫不堪地看着窗外，正在大厅里休息，垂着沉重的头，这些美丽的生物就像盛开的向日葵。和它们一样，它们似乎也喜欢在标签和装饰物上撒上大量种子。莱斯特爵士在图书馆里，为了国家的利益，听着议会委员会的报告睡着了。夫人坐在她觐见名叫孔雀鱼的年轻人的房间里。罗莎和她在一起，一直在为她写作、读书给她听。罗莎现在正在刺绣或类似的漂亮东西，当她低下头时，夫人静静地看着她。今天已经不是第一次了。

‘Rosa.’
“罗莎。”

The pretty village face looks brightly up. Then, seeing how serious my Lady is, looks puzzled and surprised.
村里漂亮的脸庞显得明亮起来。然后，见夫人一脸严肃，一脸的疑惑和惊讶。

‘See to the door. Is it shut?’
‘看门口。关门了吗？

Yes. She goes to it and returns, and looks yet more surprised.
是的。她走到那儿又回来了，看上去更加惊讶了。

‘I am about to place confidence in you, child, for I know I may trust your attachment, if not your judgment. In what I am going to do, I will not disguise myself to you at least. But I confide in you. Say nothing to any one of what passes between us.’
“我即将对你充满信心，孩子，因为我知道我可能会相信你的依恋，即使不是你的判断。我要做的事，至少不会在你面前伪装自己。但我信任你。对我们之间发生的任何一件事情都不要说。

The timid little beauty promises in all earnestness to be trustworthy.
胆怯的小美女郑重承诺，值得信赖。

‘Do you know,’ Lady Dedlock asks her, signing to her to bring her chair nearer, ‘do you know, Rosa, that I am different to you from what I am to any one?’
“你知道吗？”戴德洛克夫人一边示意她把椅子拉近一点，一边问她，“你知道吗，罗莎，我对你来说和对任何人都不同？”

‘Yes, my Lady. Much kinder. But then I often think I know you as you really are.’
'好的，夫人。友善多了。但后来我常常认为我了解你的真实面目。

‘You often think you know me as I really am? Poor child, poor child!’
‘你常常认为你了解我的真实身份吗？可怜的孩子，可怜的孩子！

She says it with a kind of scorn—though not of Rosa—and sits brooding, looking dreamily at her.
她带着一种轻蔑的语气说这句话——虽然不是对罗莎——然后坐在那里沉思，出神地看着她。

‘Do you think, Rosa, you are any relief or comfort to me? Do you suppose your being young and natural, and fond of me and grateful to me, makes it any pleasure to me to have you near me?’
‘罗莎，你认为你对我有任何缓解或安慰吗？你认为你年轻、自然、喜欢我、感激我，让你靠近我会让我感到高兴吗？

‘I don’t know, my Lady; I can scarcely hope so. But with all my heart, I wish it was so.’
“我不知道，夫人；我不知道。”我几乎不能希望如此。但我真心希望如此。”

‘It is so, little one.’
“是这样的，小家伙。”

The pretty face is checked in its flush of pleasure by the dark expression on the handsome face before it. It looks timidly for an explanation.
美丽的脸庞上泛起喜悦的红晕，被面前英俊的脸庞上的阴郁表情所掩盖。它看起来胆怯地寻求解释。

‘And if I were to say to-day, ‘Go! Leave me!’ I should say what would give me great pain and disquiet, child, and what would leave me very solitary.’
“如果我今天说，‘走吧！离开我！’我应该说那些会给我带来巨大痛苦和不安的事情，孩子，以及那些会让我感到非常孤独的事情。”

‘My Lady! Have I offended you?’
'我的女士！我冒犯你了吗？

‘In nothing. Come here.’
‘什么也没有。过来。'

Rosa bends down on the footstool at my Lady’s feet. My Lady, with that motherly touch of the famous ironmaster night, lays her hand upon her dark hair and gently keeps it there.
罗莎在夫人脚边的脚凳上弯下腰。夫人，带着著名的铁匠之夜的母爱，把手放在她的黑发上，轻轻地留在那里。

‘I told you, Rosa, that I wished you to be happy and that I would make you so if I could make anybody happy on this earth. I cannot. There are reasons now known to me, reasons in which you have no part, rendering it far better for you that you should not remain here. You must not remain here. I have determined that you shall not. I have written to the father of your lover, and he will be here to-day. All this I have done for your sake.’
“我告诉过你，罗莎，我希望你幸福，如果我能让这个地球上的任何人幸福，我会让你幸福。”我不能。我现在知道一些原因，你没有参与其中的原因，因此你不应该留在这里对你来说要好得多。你不能留在这里。我已经决定你不会。我已经写信给你爱人的父亲，他今天会来。我所做的这一切都是为了你。

The weeping girl covers her hand with kisses and says what shall she do, what shall she do, when they are separated! Her mistress kisses her on the cheek and makes no other answer.
哭泣的女孩亲吻着她的手，说当他们分开时她该怎么办，她该怎么办！她的女主人亲吻了她的脸颊，没有做出其他回答。

‘Now, be happy, child, under better circumstances. Be beloved and happy!’
‘现在，孩子，在更好的环境下要快乐。被爱并快乐！

‘Ah, my Lady, I have sometimes thought—forgive my being so free— that YOU are not happy.’
“啊，我的女士，我有时会想——请原谅我这么自由——你不快乐。”

‘I!’
'我！'

‘Will you be more so when you have sent me away? Pray, pray, think again. Let me stay a little while!’
‘当你把我送走后，你会更这样吗？祈祷，祈祷，再想一想。让我呆一会儿吧！

‘I have said, my child, that what I do, I do for your sake, not my own. It is done. What I am towards you, Rosa, is what I am now— not what I shall be a little while hence. Remember this, and keep my confidence. Do so much for my sake, and thus all ends between us!’
“我说过，我的孩子，我所做的一切都是为了你，而不是为了我自己。完成了。罗莎，我对你的态度是现在的我，而不是不久之后的我。请记住这一点，并保持信心。为了我做这么多，我们之间的一切就这样结束了！”

She detaches herself from her simple-hearted companion and leaves the room. Late in the afternoon, when she next appears upon the staircase, she is in her haughtiest and coldest state. As indifferent as if all passion, feeling, and interest had been worn out in the earlier ages of the world and had perished from its surface with its other departed monsters.
她与心地单纯的同伴分开，离开了房间。下午晚些时候，当她再次出现在楼梯上时，她处于最傲慢和最冷酷的状态。冷漠得仿佛所有的激情、感觉和兴趣都在这个世界的早期时代被磨灭了，并与其他死去的怪物一起从它的表面消失了。

Mercury has announced Mr. Rouncewell, which is the cause of her appearance. Mr. Rouncewell is not in the library, but she repairs to the library. Sir Leicester is there, and she wishes to speak to him first.
水星宣布了朗斯韦尔先生，这也是她出现的原因。朗斯韦尔先生不在图书馆，但她去了图书馆。莱斯特爵士在那里，她想先和他谈谈。

‘Sir Leicester, I am desirous—but you are engaged.’
“莱斯特爵士，我很渴望——但你已经订婚了。”

Oh, dear no! Not at all. Only Mr. Tulkinghorn.
哦，天哪，不！一点也不。只有图金霍恩先生。

Always at hand. Haunting every place. No relief or security from him for a moment.
随时可用。出没于每一个地方。他暂时没有得到任何缓解或安全感。

‘I beg your pardon, Lady Dedlock. Will you allow me to retire?’
“请您原谅，戴德洛克女士。你能让我退休吗？

With a look that plainly says, ‘You know you have the power to remain if you will,’ she tells him it is not necessary and moves towards a chair. Mr. Tulkinghorn brings it a little forward for her with his clumsy bow and retires into a window opposite. Interposed between her and the fading light of day in the now quiet street, his shadow falls upon her, and he darkens all before her. Even so does he darken her life.
她的表情清楚地表明：“你知道，如果你愿意，你有能力留下来。”她告诉他没有必要，然后走向一把椅子。图金霍恩先生用他笨拙的鞠躬为她稍稍前了一步，然后退到对面的窗户里。在现在安静的街道上，他的影子插在她和逐渐暗淡的日光之间，落在她身上，她面前的一切都变暗了。即便如此，他还是让她的生活变得黑暗。

It is a dull street under the best conditions, where the two long rows of houses stare at each other with that severity that half-adozen of its greatest mansions seem to have been slowly stared into stone rather than originally built in that material. It is a street of such dismal grandeur, so determined not to condescend to liveliness, that the doors and windows hold a gloomy state of their own in black paint and dust, and the echoing mews behind have a dry and massive appearance, as if they were reserved to stable the stone chargers of noble statues. Complicated garnish of iron-work entwines itself over the flights of steps in this awful street, and from these petrified bowers, extinguishers for obsolete flambeaux gasp at the upstart gas. Here and there a weak little iron hoop, through which bold boys aspire to throw their friends’ caps (its only present use), retains its place among the rusty foliage, sacred to the memory of departed oil. Nay, even oil itself, yet lingering at long intervals in a little absurd glass pot, with a knob in the bottom like an oyster, blinks and sulks at newer lights every night, like its high and dry master in the House of Lords.
在最好的条件下，这是一条沉闷的街道，两排长长的房屋相互凝视着，六座最大的豪宅似乎慢慢地凝视在石头上，而不是最初用石头建造的。这是一条如此凄凉而宏伟的街道，如此决意不屈尊于热闹，以至于门窗在黑漆和灰尘中保持着自己的阴暗状态，而后面回响的马厩看起来干燥而厚重，仿佛它们被保留来稳定高贵雕像的石马。在这条可怕的街道上，复杂的铁制品装饰缠绕在台阶上，从这些石化的凉亭里，过时的火炬的灭火器在暴发户的煤气中喘息着。到处都有一个脆弱的小铁箍，勇敢的男孩们渴望通过它扔朋友的帽子（它目前唯一的用途），在生锈的树叶中保留着它的位置，对逝去的石油的记忆是神圣的。不仅如此，甚至连油本身，也会在一个小而荒谬的玻璃罐里长时间地徘徊，底部有一个像牡蛎一样的旋钮，每天晚上都会在新的灯光下眨眼和生闷气，就像它在上议院的高调和干燥的主人一样。

Therefore there is not much that Lady Dedlock, seated in her chair, could wish to see through the window in which Mr. Tulkinghorn stands. And yet—and yet—she sends a look in that direction as if it were her heart’s desire to have that figure moved out of the way.
因此，坐在椅子上的戴德洛克女士希望透过图金霍恩先生所站的窗户看到的东西并不多。然而——然而——她朝那个方向看了一眼，仿佛她内心渴望让那个身影走开。

Sir Leicester begs his Lady’s pardon. She was about to say?
莱斯特爵士请求夫人原谅。她正想说什么？

‘Only that Mr. Rouncewell is here (he has called by my appointment) and that we had better make an end of the question of that girl. I am tired to death of the matter.’
“只是朗斯韦尔先生在这里（他是按照我的预约打来的），我们最好结束那个女孩的问题。我对这件事厌倦得要死。

‘What can I do—to—assist?’ demands Sir Leicester in some considerable doubt.
“我能做什么——帮助——吗？”莱斯特爵士带着相当大的疑问问道。

‘Let us see him here and have done with it. Will you tell them to send him up?’
“让我们在这里见见他，事情就结束了。你会告诉他们送他上去吗？

‘Mr. Tulkinghorn, be so good as to ring. Thank you. Request,’ says Sir Leicester to Mercury, not immediately remembering the business term, ‘request the iron gentleman to walk this way.’
'先生。图金霍恩，快来敲响吧。谢谢。 “请求，”莱斯特爵士对墨丘利说道，但他并没有立即想起这个商业术语，“请求铁绅士走这条路。”

Mercury departs in search of the iron gentleman, finds, and produces him. Sir Leicester receives that ferruginous person graciously.
水星出发寻找铁绅，找到并生下了他。莱斯特爵士亲切地接待了那个铁石心肠的人。

‘I hope you are well, Mr. Rouncewell. Be seated. (My solicitor, Mr. Tulkinghorn.) My Lady was desirous, Mr. Rouncewell,’ Sir Leicester skilfully transfers him with a solemn wave of his hand, ‘was desirous to speak with you. Hem!’
“我希望你一切都好，朗斯韦尔先生。就座。 （我的律师，图金霍恩先生。） 夫人很想，朗斯韦尔先生，”莱斯特爵士熟练地把他转移开，庄严地挥了挥手，“想和您谈谈。哼！’

‘I shall be very happy,’ returns the iron gentleman, ‘to give my best attention to anything Lady Dedlock does me the honour to say.’
“我会很高兴，”钢铁绅士回答道，“对戴德洛克女士有幸说的任何事情都给予我最大的关注。”

As he turns towards her, he finds that the impression she makes upon him is less agreeable than on the former occasion. A distant supercilious air makes a cold atmosphere about her, and there is nothing in her bearing, as there was before, to encourage openness.
当他转向她时，他发现她给他的印象不如上次那么令人愉快。一种疏远的傲慢态度使她周围气氛冷漠，而且她的举止不像以前那样有任何鼓励开放的地方。

‘Pray, sir,’ says Lady Dedlock listlessly, ‘may I be allowed to inquire whether anything has passed between you and your son respecting your son’s fancy?’
“请问，先生，”戴德洛克夫人无精打采地说，“我可以询问一下您和您儿子之间是否发生过任何尊重您儿子的幻想的事情吗？”

It is almost too troublesome to her languid eyes to bestow a look upon him as she asks this question.
当她问这个问题时，她那双无精打采的眼睛几乎无法看他一眼。

‘If my memory serves me, Lady Dedlock, I said, when I had the pleasure of seeing you before, that I should seriously advise my son to conquer that—fancy.’ The ironmaster repeats her expression with a little emphasis.
“如果我没记错的话，戴德洛克夫人，当我以前有幸见到你时，我说过，我应该认真地建议我的儿子克服这个幻想。”铁匠稍微强调了一遍她的表情。

‘And did you?’
“你呢？”

‘Oh! Of course I did.’
'哦！我当然做了。'

Sir Leicester gives a nod, approving and confirmatory. Very proper. The iron gentleman, having said that he would do it, was bound to do it. No difference in this respect between the base metals and the precious. Highly proper.
莱斯特爵士点点头，表示认可和确认。非常恰当。铁君子既然说到做到，那就一定要做到。在这方面，贱金属和贵金属之间没有区别。非常合适。

‘And pray has he done so?’
“请问他这样做了吗？”

‘Really, Lady Dedlock, I cannot make you a definite reply. I fear not. Probably not yet. In our condition of life, we sometimes couple an intention with our—our fancies which renders them not altogether easy to throw off. I think it is rather our way to be in earnest.’
“说实话，戴德洛克女士，我无法给你一个明确的答复。我担心不会。可能还没有。在我们的生活状况中，我们有时会将意图与我们的幻想结合起来，这使得它们不容易被抛弃。我认为这才是我们认真的方式。

Sir Leicester has a misgiving that there may be a hidden Wat Tylerish meaning in this expression, and fumes a little. Mr. Rouncewell is perfectly good-humoured and polite, but within such limits, evidently adapts his tone to his reception.
莱斯特爵士怀疑这句话中可能隐藏着瓦特·泰勒里什的意思，并有点生气。朗斯韦尔先生脾气很好，很有礼貌，但在这种限度内，他显然会根据接待情况调整自己的语气。

‘Because,’ proceeds my Lady, ‘I have been thinking of the subject, which is tiresome to me.’
“因为，”夫人继续说道，“我一直在思考这个话题，这让我感到厌烦。”

‘I am very sorry, I am sure.’
“我确信，我非常抱歉。”

‘And also of what Sir Leicester said upon it, in which I quite concur’—Sir Leicester flattered—‘and if you cannot give us the assurance that this fancy is at an end, I have come to the conclusion that the girl had better leave me.’
“还有莱斯特爵士对此的看法，我非常同意”——莱斯特爵士受宠若惊——“如果你不能向我们保证这种幻想已经结束，我得出的结论是，这个女孩最好离开我吧。

‘I can give no such assurance, Lady Dedlock. Nothing of the kind.’
“我不能给出这样的保证，戴德洛克女士。根本不是这样的。

‘Then she had better go.’
“那她最好走吧。”

‘Excuse me, my Lady,’ Sir Leicester considerately interposes, ‘but perhaps this may be doing an injury to the young woman which she has not merited. Here is a young woman,’ says Sir Leicester, magnificently laying out the matter with his right hand like a service of plate, ‘whose good fortune it is to have attracted the notice and favour of an eminent lady and to live, under the protection of that eminent lady, surrounded by the various advantages which such a position confers, and which are unquestionably very great—I believe unquestionably very great, sir—for a young woman in that station of life. The question then arises, should that young woman be deprived of these many advantages and that good fortune simply because she has’—Sir Leicester, with an apologetic but dignified inclination of his head towards the ironmaster, winds up his sentence—‘has attracted the notice of Mr Rouncewell’s son? Now, has she deserved this punishment? Is this just towards her? Is this our previous understanding?’
“对不起，夫人，”莱斯特爵士体贴地插话道，“但这也许对这位年轻女子造成了不应有的伤害。这是一位年轻女子，”莱斯特爵士说道，他用右手像盘子一样华丽地摆出了这件事，“她的幸运在于吸引了一位杰出女士的注意和青睐，并在她的保护下生活这位杰出的女士，周围环绕着这样一个职位所赋予的各种优势，这些优势对于处于这种生活地位的年轻女性来说无疑是非常伟大的——我相信毫无疑问是非常伟大的，先生。那么问题来了，这位年轻女子是否应该被剥夺这么多的优势和好运，仅仅因为她“——莱斯特爵士带着歉意但庄重的头向钢铁大师倾斜，结束了他的判决——”吸引了注意到朗斯韦尔先生的儿子了吗？现在，她该受这样的惩罚吗？这只是针对她吗？这是我们之前的理解吗？

‘I beg your pardon,’ interposes Mr. Rouncewell’s son’s father. ‘Sir Leicester, will you allow me? I think I may shorten the subject. Pray dismiss that from your consideration. If you remember anything so unimportant—which is not to be expected—you would recollect that my first thought in the affair was directly opposed to her remaining here.’
“请原谅，”朗斯韦尔先生儿子的父亲插话道。 “莱斯特爵士，你可以允许我吗？我想我可以缩短这个话题。请不要考虑这一点。如果你还记得如此不重要的事情——这是不可能的——你会记得我在这件事上的第一个想法是直接反对她留在这里。

Dismiss the Dedlock patronage from consideration? Oh! Sir Leicester is bound to believe a pair of ears that have been handed down to him through such a family, or he really might have mistrusted their report of the iron gentleman’s observations.
不考虑戴德洛克的赞助？哦！莱斯特爵士必然会相信这样一个家族传给他的一双耳朵，否则他可能真的不相信他们关于铁绅士观察的报告。

‘It is not necessary,’ observes my Lady in her coldest manner before he can do anything but breathe amazedly, ‘to enter into these matters on either side. The girl is a very good girl; I have nothing whatever to say against her, but she is so far insensible to her many advantages and her good fortune that she is in love—or supposes she is, poor little fool—and unable to appreciate them.’
“没有必要，”我的夫人以她最冷漠的态度说道，在他只能惊讶地呼吸之前，“没有必要从任何一方介入这些事情。”这个女孩是一个非常好的女孩；我对她没有什么可说的，但到目前为止，她对自己的许多优点和她的好运都麻木不仁，以至于她恋爱了——或者假设她恋爱了，可怜的小傻瓜——却无法欣赏它们。

Sir Leicester begs to observe that wholly alters the case. He might have been sure that my Lady had the best grounds and reasons in support of her view. He entirely agrees with my Lady. The young woman had better go.
莱斯特爵士请求观察，这完全改变了情况。他可能确信夫人有最好的理由和理由来支持她的观点。他完全同意夫人的观点。这位年轻女子最好还是走吧。

‘As Sir Leicester observed, Mr. Rouncewell, on the last occasion when we were fatigued by this business,’ Lady Dedlock languidly proceeds, ‘we cannot make conditions with you. Without conditions, and under present circumstances, the girl is quite misplaced here and had better go. I have told her so. Would you wish to have her sent back to the village, or would you like to take her with you, or what would you prefer?’
“正如莱斯特爵士所说，朗斯韦尔先生，上次我们对这件事感到厌倦时，”戴德洛克夫人懒洋洋地继续说道，“我们不能向你提出条件。没有条件，在现在的情况下，女孩子实在是太不合适了，还是走吧。我已经这样告诉她了。你想让她送回村子，还是带她一起走，或者你更喜欢什么？

‘Lady Dedlock, if I may speak plainly—‘
“戴德洛克女士，请让我直白地说——”

‘By all means.’
“无论如何。”

‘—I should prefer the course which will the soonest relieve you of the incumbrance and remove her from her present position.’
“——我更喜欢那种能尽快解除你的负担并让她离开目前职位的做法。”

‘And to speak as plainly,’ she returns with the same studied carelessness, ‘so should I. Do I understand that you will take her with you?’
“坦白地说，”她带着同样故意的漫不经心回答道，“我也应该这么做。我明白你会带她一起走吗？”

The iron gentleman makes an iron bow.
铁君子造铁弓。

‘Sir Leicester, will you ring?’ Mr. Tulkinghorn steps forward from his window and pulls the bell. ‘I had forgotten you. Thank you.’ He makes his usual bow and goes quietly back again. Mercury, swift-responsive, appears, receives instructions whom to produce, skims away, produces the aforesaid, and departs.
“莱斯特爵士，您愿意按铃吗？”图金霍恩先生从窗户向前走去，拉响了门铃。 ‘我已经忘记你了。谢谢你。”他像往常一样鞠了一躬，然后又悄悄地回去了。水星反应迅速，出现，接受指令，产生，掠过，产生上述内容，然后离开。

Rosa has been crying and is yet in distress. On her coming in, the ironmaster leaves his chair, takes her arm in his, and remains with her near the door ready to depart.
罗莎一直在哭泣，但仍然很痛苦。她一进来，铁匠就离开了椅子，挽着她的手臂，和她一起站在门口准备离开。

‘You are taken charge of, you see,’ says my Lady in her weary manner, ‘and are going away well protected. I have mentioned that you are a very good girl, and you have nothing to cry for.’
“你知道，你已经被接管了，”我的夫人疲惫地说道，“并且会受到很好的保护。”我说过你是一个非常好的女孩，你没有什么可哭的。

‘She seems after all,’ observes Mr. Tulkinghorn, loitering a little forward with his hands behind him, ‘as if she were crying at going away.’
“她毕竟看起来，”图尔金霍恩先生观察到，他双手放在身后，稍微向前走动，“好像她在离开时哭了。”

‘Why, she is not well-bred, you see,’ returns Mr. Rouncewell with some quickness in his manner, as if he were glad to have the lawyer to retort upon, ‘and she is an inexperienced little thing and knows no better. If she had remained here, sir, she would have improved, no doubt.’
“哎呀，你看，她没有受过良好的教养，”朗斯韦尔先生语气有些敏捷地回答道，仿佛他很高兴有律师来反驳，“而且她是个没有经验的小东西，一无所知。” 。先生，如果她留在这里，毫无疑问她会有所进步。”

‘No doubt,’ is Mr. Tulkinghorn’s composed reply.
“毫无疑问，”图尔金霍恩先生冷静地回答道。

Rosa sobs out that she is very sorry to leave my Lady, and that she was happy at Chesney Wold, and has been happy with my Lady, and that she thanks my Lady over and over again. ‘Out, you silly little puss!’ says the ironmaster, checking her in a low voice, though not angrily. ‘Have a spirit, if you’re fond of Watt!’ My Lady merely waves her off with indifference, saying, ‘There, there, child! You are a good girl. Go away!’ Sir Leicester has magnificently disengaged himself from the subject and retired into the sanctuary of his blue coat. Mr. Tulkinghorn, an indistinct form against the dark street now dotted with lamps, looms in my Lady’s view, bigger and blacker than before.
罗莎抽泣着说，她很遗憾离开我的夫人，她在切斯尼沃尔德过得很开心，和我的夫人在一起很开心，她一遍又一遍地感谢我的夫人。 “滚出去，你这个愚蠢的小猫！”钢铁大师低声检查着她，但并不生气。 “如果你喜欢瓦特，就打点精神吧！”夫人只是冷漠地挥手示意她走开，说道：“好了，好了，孩子！”你是个好女孩。走开！”莱斯特爵士华丽地摆脱了这个话题，退到了蓝色外套的避难所里。图金霍恩先生的身影在现在点缀着灯光的黑暗街道上隐约可见，在夫人的视野中若隐若现，比以前更大更黑。

‘Sir Leicester and Lady Dedlock,’ says Mr. Rouncewell after a pause of a few moments, ‘I beg to take my leave, with an apology for having again troubled you, though not of my own act, on this tiresome subject. I can very well understand, I assure you, how tiresome so small a matter must have become to Lady Dedlock. If I am doubtful of my dealing with it, it is only because I did not at first quietly exert my influence to take my young friend here away without troubling you at all. But it appeared to me—I dare say magnifying the importance of the thing—that it was respectful to explain to you how the matter stood and candid to consult your wishes and convenience. I hope you will excuse my want of acquaintance with the polite world.’
“莱斯特爵士和戴德洛克夫人，”朗斯韦尔先生停顿了一会儿后说道，“我请求离开，并为在这个令人厌烦的话题上再次困扰你们而致歉，尽管这不是我自己的行为。”我向你保证，我非常理解，这么一件小事对戴德洛克夫人来说一定是多么令人厌烦。如果我怀疑我的处理方式，那只是因为我一开始并没有悄悄发挥影响力，在不给你添麻烦的情况下把我的年轻朋友带走。但在我看来——我敢说这放大了这件事的重要性——向你解释事情的进展并坦诚地咨询你的意愿和便利是一种尊重。我希望你能原谅我想了解一下礼貌世界。

Sir Leicester considers himself evoked out of the sanctuary by these remarks. ‘Mr. Rouncewell,’ he returns, ‘do not menfion it. Justifications are unnecessary, I hope, on either side.’
莱斯特爵士认为自己的这些言论让他离开了庇护所。 '先生。朗斯韦尔，”他回答道，“别提了。我希望双方都不需要辩解。

‘I am glad to hear it, Sir Leicester; and if I may, by way of a last word, revert to what I said before of my mother’s long connexion with the family and the worth it bespeaks on both sides, I would point out this little instance here on my arm who shows herself so affectionate and faithful in parting and in whom my mother, I dare say, has done something to awaken such feelings— though of course Lady Dedlock, by her heartfelt interest and her genial condescension, has done much more.
“我很高兴听到这个消息，莱斯特爵士；最后，如果我可以回到我之前所说的，关于我母亲与家庭的长期联系以及它对双方的价值，我会指出我手臂上的这个小例子，它表现出如此离别时充满深情和忠诚，我敢说，我的母亲在她身上做了一些事情来唤醒这种感情——当然，戴德洛克夫人凭借她发自内心的兴趣和她和善的谦逊，做了更多的事情。

If he mean this ironically, it may be truer than he thinks. He points it, however, by no deviation from his straightforward manner of speech, though in saying it he turns towards that part of the dim room where my Lady sits. Sir Leicester stands to return his parting salutation, Mr. Tulkinghorn again rings, Mercury takes another flight, and Mr. Rouncewell and Rosa leave the house.
如果他的意思是讽刺的话，那可能比他想象的更真实。然而，他指出这一点，并没有偏离他直截了当的说话方式，尽管在说这句话时，他转向了昏暗房间里夫人所坐的那部分。莱斯特爵士站起来致以告别的问候，图尔金霍恩先生再次响起，水星再次飞行，朗斯韦尔先生和罗莎离开了房子。

Then lights are brought in, discovering Mr. Tulkinghorn still standing in his window with his hands behind him and my Lady still sitting with his figure before her, closing up her view of the night as well as of the day. She is very pale. Mr. Tulkinghorn, observing it as she rises to retire, thinks, ‘Well she may be! The power of this woman is astonishing. She has been acting a part the whole time.’ But he can act a part too—his one unchanging character—and as he holds the door open for this woman, fifty pairs of eyes, each fifty times sharper than Sir Leicester’s pair, should find no flaw in him.
然后灯光亮了，发现图金霍恩先生仍然站在窗前，双手放在身后，而我的夫人仍然坐在他的身前，关闭了她对夜晚和白天的视野。她的脸色非常苍白。图金霍恩先生在她起身准备退休时观察到这一点，心想：“好吧，她可能是这样！”这个女人的实力，实在是惊人。她一直在扮演一个角色。”但他也可以扮演一个角色——他唯一不变的性格——当他为这个女人打开门时，五十双眼睛，每一双都比莱斯特爵士的眼睛锐利五十倍，应该在他身上找不到任何缺点。

Lady Dedlock dines alone in her own room to-day. Sir Leicester is whipped in to the rescue of the Doodle Party and the discomfiture of the Coodle Faction. Lady Dedlock asks on sitting down to dinner, still deadly pale (and quite an illustration of the debilitated cousin’s text), whether he is gone out? Yes. Whether Mr. Tulkinghorn is gone yet? No. Presently she asks again, is he gone YET? No. What is he doing? Mercury thinks he is writing letters in the library. Would my Lady wish to see him? Anything but that.
戴德洛克夫人今天独自在自己的房间里用餐。莱斯特爵士被派去拯救涂鸦党并挫败库德派系。戴德洛克夫人坐下来吃晚饭时，脸色依然苍白（这很能说明这位虚弱的表弟的文字），他是否出去了？是的。图金霍恩先生已经走了吗？没有。过了一会儿她又问，他走了吗？不，他在做什么？水星认为他正在图书馆写信。夫人愿意见他吗？除了那个之外什么都可以。

But he wishes to see my Lady. Within a few more minutes he is reported as sending his respects, and could my Lady please to receive him for a word or two after her dinner? My Lady will receive him now. He comes now, apologizing for intruding, even by her permission, while she is at table. When they are alone, my Lady waves her hand to dispense with such mockeries.
但他希望见我的女士。再过几分钟，据报道他就向他致以敬意，请问夫人在晚饭后能接待他一两句话吗？夫人现在就要接待他了。现在他来了，为在她坐在餐桌旁时打扰她而道歉，即使是在她允许的情况下。当他们独处时，夫人挥挥手，免去这样的嘲笑。

‘What do you want, sir?’
“您想要什么，先生？”

‘Why, Lady Dedlock,’ says the lawyer, taking a chair at a little distance from her and slowly rubbing his rusty legs up and down, up and down, up and down, ‘I am rather surprised by the course you have taken.’
“哎呀，戴德洛克女士，”律师一边说，一边在离她不远的地方拿了张椅子，慢慢地上下、上下、上下地摩擦生锈的腿，“我对你采取的做法感到相当惊讶。 '

‘Indeed?’
'的确？'

‘Yes, decidedly. I was not prepared for it. I consider it a departure from our agreement and your promise. It puts us in a new position, Lady Dedlock. I feel myself under the necessity of saying that I don’t approve of it.’
是的，绝对如此。我没有做好准备。我认为这违背了我们的协议和你的承诺。这让我们处于一个新的位置，戴德洛克女士。我觉得自己有必要说我不赞成它。

He stops in his rubbing and looks at her, with his hands on his knees. Imperturbable and unchangeable as he is, there is still an indefinable freedom in his manner which is new and which does not escape this woman’s observation.
他停下揉搓动作，双手放在膝盖上，看着她。尽管他冷静、一成不变，但他的举止中仍然有一种难以言表的自由，这种自由是新鲜的，也逃不过这个女人的观察。

‘I do not quite understand you.’
“我不太明白你的意思。”

‘Oh, yes you do, I think. I think you do. Come, come, Lady Dedlock, we must not fence and parry now. You know you like this girl.’
“哦，是的，我想你是这样的。我想你会的。来吧，来吧，戴德洛克夫人，我们现在不能用剑招架。你知道你喜欢这个女孩。

‘Well, sir?’
“怎么样，先生？”

‘And you know—and I know—that you have not sent her away for the reasons you have assigned, but for the purpose of separating her as much as possible from—excuse my mentioning it as a matter of business—any reproach and exposure that impend over yourself.’
“你知道——我也知道——你送她走并不是因为你指定的原因，而是为了尽可能地让她远离——请原谅我把这当作是生意上的事——任何责备和曝光。这对你来说是迫在眉睫的事情。

‘Well, sir?’
“怎么样，先生？”

‘Well, Lady Dedlock,’ returns the lawyer, crossing his legs and nursing the uppermost knee. ‘I object to that. I consider that a dangerous proceeding. I know it to be unnecessary and calculated to awaken speculation, doubt, rumour, I don’t know what, in the house. Besides, it is a violation of our agreement. You were to be exactly what you were before. Whereas, it must be evident to yourself, as it is to me, that you have been this evening very different from what you were before. Why, bless my soul, Lady Dedlock, transparenfly so!’
“好吧，戴德洛克女士，”律师回答道，交叉着双腿，护理着最上面的膝盖。 ‘我反对这一点。我认为这是一个危险的程序。我知道这是不必要的，而且是故意引起屋子里的猜测、怀疑、谣言，我不知道是什么。而且，这也违反了我们的协议。你应该和以前一模一样。然而，对你来说，对我来说，你一定很明显，今晚的你与之前的你有很大的不同。为什么，保佑我的灵魂，戴德洛克夫人，透明地如此！

‘If, sir,’ she begins, ‘in my knowledge of my secret—‘ But he interrupts her.
“如果，先生，”她开始说道，“据我了解我的秘密——”但他打断了她。

‘Now, Lady Dedlock, this is a matter of business, and in a matter of business the ground cannot be kept too clear. It is no longer your secret. Excuse me. That is just the mistake. It is my secret, in trust for Sir Leicester and the family. If it were your secret, Lady Dedlock, we should not be here holding this conversation.’
“现在，戴德洛克夫人，这是一个生意问题，而在生意问题上，立场不能保持得太清楚。这不再是你的秘密。打扰一下。这就是错误所在。这是我的秘密，由莱斯特爵士及其家人负责。如果这是你的秘密，戴德洛克女士，我们就不应该在这里进行这次谈话。

‘That is very true. If in my knowledge of THE secret I do what I can to spare an innocent girl (especially, remembering your own reference to her when you told my story to the assembled guests at Chesney Wold) from the taint of my impending shame, I act upon a resolution I have taken. Nothing in the world, and no one in the world, could shake it or could move me.’ This she says with great deliberation and distinctness and with no more outward passion than himself. As for him, he methodically discusses his matter of business as if she were any insensible instrument used in business.
‘这话一点没错。如果我知道这个秘密，我会尽我所能来保护一个无辜的女孩（特别是，当你在切斯尼沃尔德向聚集的客人讲述我的故事时你自己提到的她）免受我即将到来的耻辱的玷污，我会采取行动我已采取的一项决议。世界上没有任何东西，世界上没有人，可以动摇它或感动我。”她说这句话时深思熟虑、清晰明确，没有比他自己更外在的激情。至于他，他有条不紊地讨论着他的生意，就好像她是生意上使用的任何无知觉的工具一样。

‘Really? Then you see, Lady Dedlock,’ he returns, ‘you are not to be trusted. You have put the case in a perfecfly plain way, and according to the literal fact; and that being the case, you are not to be trusted.’
'真的吗？然后你看，戴德洛克夫人，”他回答道，“你不值得信任。你已经根据字面事实以非常简单的方式陈述了这个案子；既然如此，你就不值得信任。

‘Perhaps you may remember that I expressed some anxiety on this same point when we spoke at night at Chesney Wold?’
“也许你可能还记得，当我们晚上在切斯尼沃尔德谈话时，我在同一点上表达了一些焦虑？”

‘Yes,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, coolly getting up and standing on the hearth. ‘Yes. I recollect, Lady Dedlock, that you certainly referred to the girl, but that was before we came to our arrangement, and both the letter and the spirit of our arrangement altogether precluded any action on your part founded upon my discovery. There can be no doubt about that. As to sparing the girl, of what importance or value is she? Spare! Lady Dedlock, here is a family name compromised. One might have supposed that the course was straight on—over everything, neither to the right nor to the left, regardless of all considerations in the way, sparing nothing, treading everything under foot.’
“是的，”图金霍恩先生冷静地站起来站在壁炉边说道。 '是的。我记得，戴德洛克夫人，您确实提到了那个女孩，但那是在我们达成安排之前，我们安排的文字和精神都完全排除了您根据我的发现采取的任何行动。这是毫无疑问的。至于饶恕这个女孩，她有什么重要性或价值？空闲的！戴德洛克女士，这是一个被泄露的姓氏。人们可能会认为路线是笔直的——超越一切，既不向右也不向左，不顾途中的所有考虑，不遗余力，把一切都踩在脚下。

She has been looking at the table. She lifts up her eyes and looks at him. There is a stern expression on her face and a part of her lower lip is compressed under her teeth. ‘This woman understands me,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn thinks as she lets her glance fall again. ‘SHE cannot be spared. Why should she spare others?’
她一直看着桌子。她抬起眼睛看着他。她的脸上表情严肃，下唇的一部分被压在牙齿下面。 “这个女人理解我，”图金霍恩先生一边想，一边再次垂下目光。 ‘她不能幸免。她为什么要饶恕别人呢？

For a little while they are silent. Lady Dedlock has eaten no dinner, but has twice or thrice poured out water with a steady hand and drunk it. She rises from table, takes a lounging-chair, and reclines in it, shading her face. There is nothing in her manner to express weakness or excite compassion. It is thoughtful, gloomy, concentrated. ‘This woman,’ thinks Mr. Tulkinghorn, standing on the hearth, again a dark object closing up her view, ‘is a study.’
他们沉默了一会儿。戴德洛克夫人没有吃晚饭，但还是稳稳地倒了两三次水，喝了下去。她从桌子上站起来，拿了一张躺椅，斜靠在上面，遮住脸。她的举止中没有任何表现出软弱或激发同情心的地方。它是深思熟虑的、忧郁的、专注的。 “这个女人，”塔尔金霍恩先生站在炉边，又一个黑暗的物体挡住了她的视线，他想，“是一个书房。”

He studies her at his leisure, not speaking for a time. She too studies something at her leisure. She is not the first to speak, appearing indeed so unlikely to be so, though he stood there until midnight, that even he is driven upon breaking silence.
他闲暇时打量着她，有一段时间没有说话。她也在闲暇时学习一些东西。她并不是第一个说话的人，尽管他一直站在那里直到午夜，但看起来确实不太可能如此，以至于连他都被迫打破沉默。

‘Lady Dedlock, the most disagreeable part of this business interview remains, but it is business. Our agreement is broken. A lady of your sense and strength of character will be prepared for my now declaring it void and taking my own course.’
“戴德洛克女士，这次商务采访中最令人不快的部分仍然存在，但这是生意。我们的约定被打破了。像你这样理智和坚强的女士将会为我现在宣布它无效并采取我自己的做法做好准备。

‘I am quite prepared.’
“我已经做好充分准备了。”

Mr. Tulkinghorn inclines his head. ‘That is all I have to trouble you with, Lady Dedlock.’
图金霍恩先生歪着头。 “这就是我要麻烦你的事情了，戴德洛克女士。”

She stops him as he is moving out of the room by asking, ‘This is the notice I was to receive? I wish not to misapprehend you.’
当他走出房间时，她阻止了他，问道：“这就是我要收到的通知？”我希望不要误解你。

‘Not exactly the notice you were to receive, Lady Dedlock, because the contemplated notice supposed the agreement to have been observed. But virtually the same, virtually the same. The difference is merely in a lawyer’s mind.’
“戴德洛克夫人，这不完全是你要收到的通知，因为预期的通知假定协议已被遵守。但实际上是一样的，几乎是一样的。区别仅在于律师的想法。”

‘You intend to give me no other notice?’
“你不打算再给我任何通知吗？”

‘You are right. No.’
'你是对的。不。'

‘Do you contemplate undeceiving Sir Leicester to-night?’
“今晚你想成为不欺骗的莱斯特爵士吗？”

‘A home question!’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn with a slight smile and cautiously shaking his head at the shaded face. ‘No, not tonight.’
“一个家庭问题！”图金霍恩先生微笑着说道，对着阴影中的脸小心翼翼地摇了摇头。 “不，今晚不行。”

‘To-morrow?’
'明天？'

‘All things considered, I had better decline answering that question, Lady Dedlock. If I were to say I don’t know when, exactly, you would not believe me, and it would answer no purpose. It may be to-morrow. I would rather say no more. You are prepared, and I hold out no expectations which circumstances might fail to justify. I wish you good evening.’
“综合考虑，我最好拒绝回答这个问题，戴德洛克女士。如果我说我不知道​​具体什么时候，你不会相信我，而且这也毫无意义。可能是明天。我宁愿不再多说。你已经做好了准备，我不会抱有任何情况下可能无法证明的期望。祝你晚上好。

She removes her hand, turns her pale face towards him as he walks silently to the door, and stops him once again as he is about to open it.
当他默默地走到门口时，她松开了手，将苍白的脸转向他，当他正要开门时，她再次阻止了他。

‘Do you intend to remain in the house any time? I heard you were writing in the library. Are you going to return there?’
“你打算随时留在家里吗？我听说你在图书馆写作。你要回到那里吗？

‘Only for my hat. I am going home.’
“只为了我的帽子。”我正在回家。'

She bows her eyes rather than her head, the movement is so slight and curious, and he withdraws. Clear of the room he looks at his watch but is inclined to doubt it by a minute or thereabouts. There is a splendid clock upon the staircase, famous, as splendid clocks not often are, for its accuracy. ‘And what do YOU say,’ Mr. Tulkinghorn inquires, referring to it. ‘What do you say?’
她低下眼睛，而不是低下头，动作如此轻微而好奇，然后他退出了。离开房间后，他看了看手表，但倾向于怀疑一分钟左右的时间。楼梯上有一座华丽的时钟，它因其精确而闻名，而华丽的时钟并不常见。 “你说什么，”图金霍恩先生指着它问道。 '你怎么说？'

If it said now, ‘Don’t go home!’ What a famous clock, hereafter, if it said to-night of all the nights that it has counted off, to this old man of all the young and old men who have ever stood before it, ‘Don’t go home!’ With its sharp clear bell it strikes three quarters after seven and ticks on again. ‘Why, you are worse than I thought you,’ says Mr. Tulkinghorn, muttering reproof to his watch. ‘Two minutes wrong? At this rate you won’t last my time.’ What a watch to return good for evil if it ticked in answer, ‘Don’t go home!’
如果它现在说：“不要回家！”如果它在所有的夜晚中的今晚对所有曾经经历过的年轻人和老人中的这位老人说，那么这将是一个多么著名的时钟啊！站在它面前，“别回家！”七点过四分之三，它发出清脆的铃声，然后又滴答作响。 “哎呀，你比我想象的还要糟糕。”图金霍恩先生一边对着手表低声责备，一边说道。 ‘错了两分钟？照这样下去，你就活不过我的时间了。”如果它的回答是“别回家！”，这真是一块以德报怨的手表。

He passes out into the streets and walks on, with his hands behind him, under the shadow of the lofty houses, many of whose mysteries, difficulties, mortgages, delicate affairs of all kinds, are treasured up within his old black satin waistcoat. He is in the confidence of the very bricks and mortar. The high chimney-stacks telegraph family secrets to him. Yet there is not a voice in a mile of them to whisper, ‘Don’t go home!’
他走到街上，双手放在身后，在高耸的房屋的阴影下继续前行，其中许多秘密、困难、抵押贷款、各种微妙的事务，都被珍藏在他的旧黑缎背心里。他对实体充满信心。高高的烟囱向他传达着家庭的秘密。然而方圆一英里之内却没有一个声音低声说：“别回家！”

Through the stir and motion of the commoner streets; through the roar and jar of many vehicles, many feet, many voices; with the blazing shop-lights lighting him on, the west wind blowing him on, and the crowd pressing him on, he is pitilessly urged upon his way, and nothing meets him murmuring, ‘Don’t go home!’ Arrived at last in his dull room to light his candles, and look round and up, and see the Roman pointing from the ceiling, there is no new significance in the Roman’s hand to-night or in the flutter of the attendant groups to give him the late warning, ‘Don’t come here!’
穿过平民街道的喧嚣；穿过许多车辆的轰鸣声、许多脚步声、许多声音；店里的灯火照亮了他，西风吹着他，人群逼着他，他被无情地催促着上路，没有人遇见他，低声说：“别回家！”终于到达了他在昏暗的房间里点燃蜡烛，环顾四周，向上看，看到罗马人从天花板上指着，今晚罗马人的手或随行人员的颤动没有新的意义给他迟到的警告， “别来这里！”

It is a moonlight night, but the moon, being past the full, is only now rising over the great wilderness of London. The stars are shining as they shone above the turret-leads at Chesney Wold. This woman, as he has of late been so accustomed to call her, looks out upon them. Her soul is turbulent within her; she is sick at heart and restless. The large rooms are too cramped and close. She cannot endure their restraint and will walk alone in a neighbouring garden.
这是一个月夜，但月亮已经过了满月，现在才从伦敦的大荒野上空升起。星星在切斯尼沃尔德的炮塔引线上方闪闪发光。这个女人（他最近习惯这样称呼她）注视着他们。她的灵魂在她内心动荡不安；她心烦意乱，坐立不安。大房间太狭窄和封闭。她无法忍受他们的束缚，会独自在附近的花园里散步。

Too capricious and imperious in all she does to be the cause of much surprise in those about her as to anything she does, this woman, loosely muffled, goes out into the moonlight. Mercury attends with the key. Having opened the garden-gate, he delivers the key into his Lady’s hands at her request and is bidden to go back. She will walk there some time to ease her aching head. She may be an hour, she may be more. She needs no further escort. The gate shuts upon its spring with a clash, and he leaves her passing on into the dark shade of some trees.
她所做的一切都太过反复无常和专横，以至于她所做的任何事情都不会让她周围的人感到惊讶，这个女人，松松地捂着嘴，走到月光下。水星带着钥匙出席。打开花园大门后，他应夫人的要求将钥匙交给她，并被要求回去。她会步行去那里一段时间，以缓解她疼痛的头痛。她可能一个小时，也可能更多。她不需要进一步的护送。大门砰地一声关上了弹簧，他让她走入一些树荫下。

A fine night, and a bright large moon, and multitudes of stars. Mr. Tulkinghorn, in repairing to his cellar and in opening and shutting those resounding doors, has to cross a little prison-like yard. He looks up casually, thinking what a fine night, what a bright large moon, what multitudes of stars! A quiet night, too.
一个美好的夜晚，一轮明亮的大月亮，还有无数的星星。图金霍恩先生在修理地窖、打开和关闭那些响亮的门时，必须穿过一个像监狱一样的小院子。他漫不经心地抬头望去，心想，多么美好的夜晚，多么明亮的大月亮，多么多的星星啊！也是一个安静的夜晚。

A very quiet night. When the moon shines very brilliantly, a solitude and stillness seem to proceed from her that influence even crowded places full of life. Not only is it a still night on dusty high roads and on hill-summits, whence a wide expanse of country may be seen in repose, quieter and quieter as it spreads away into a fringe of trees against the sky with the grey ghost of a bloom upon them; not only is it a still night in gardens and in woods, and on the river where the water-meadows are fresh and green, and the stream sparkles on among pleasant islands, murmuring weirs, and whispering rushes; not only does the stillness attend it as it flows where houses cluster thick, where many bridges are reflected in it, where wharves and shipping make it black and awful, where it winds from these disfigurements through marshes whose grim beacons stand like skeletons washed ashore, where it expands through the bolder region of rising grounds, rich in cornfield wind-mill and steeple, and where it mingles with the ever-heaving sea; not only is it a still night on the deep, and on the shore where the watcher stands to see the ship with her spread wings cross the path of light that appears to be presented to only him; but even on this stranger’s wilderness of London there is some rest. Its steeples and towers and its one great dome grow more ethereal; its smoky house-tops lose their grossness in the pale effulgence; the noises that arise from the streets are fewer and are softened, and the footsteps on the pavements pass more tranquilly away. In these fields of Mr. Tulkinghorn’s inhabiting, where the shepherds play on Chancery pipes that have no stop, and keep their sheep in the fold by hook and by crook until they have shorn them exceeding close, every noise is merged, this moonlight night, into a distant ringing hum, as if the city were a vast glass, vibrating.
一个非常安静的夜晚。当月光非常灿烂的时候，她身上似乎会散发出一种孤独和寂静，即使是在拥挤的地方也充满生机。不仅在尘土飞扬的公路和山顶上是一个寂静的夜晚，从那里可以看到大片广阔的乡村在休息，越来越安静，因为它蔓延到天空的衬托下的树林边缘，天空中笼罩着灰色的幽灵。在他们身上绽放；不仅花园里、树林里、河上都是寂静的夜晚，河边的草地清新翠绿，小溪在宜人的岛屿、潺潺的堰子和低语的灯心草之间流淌，波光粼粼。寂静不仅伴随着它，因为它流淌在房屋密集的地方，在那里许多桥梁倒映在其中，在那里码头和航运使它变得又黑又可怕，在那里它从这些毁容中蜿蜒穿过沼泽，沼泽的可怕的灯塔像被冲上岸的骷髅一样矗立着，在那里，它延伸到了更大胆的高地区域，那里有大量的玉米田、风车和尖塔，并与永远波涛汹涌的大海融为一体；不仅在深海中是一个寂静的夜晚，在岸上，观察者站在岸上看到那艘张开翅膀的船穿过似乎只呈现给他的光路；但即使在伦敦这片陌生的荒野上，也有一些休息的地方。它的尖塔、塔楼和巨大的圆顶变得更加空灵。烟熏火燎的屋顶在苍白的光辉中失去了粗俗感。街上的噪音越来越少，也越来越柔和，人行道上的脚步声也更加平静。在先生的这些领域 图金霍恩的住所，牧羊人吹奏着永不停歇的大法官管子，千方百计地把羊圈在羊圈里，直到把它们剪得非常接近，所有的噪音都在这个月夜里融合成遥远的嗡嗡声，这座城市仿佛是一块巨大的玻璃，在振动。

What’s that? Who fired a gun or pistol? Where was it?
那是什么？谁开枪或手枪？它在哪里？

The few foot-passengers start, stop, and stare about them. Some windows and doors are opened, and people come out to look. It was a loud report and echoed and rattled heavily. It shook one house, or so a man says who was passing. It has aroused all the dogs in the neighbourhood, who bark vehemently. Terrified cats scamper across the road. While the dogs are yet barking and howling—there is one dog howling like a demon—the church-clocks, as if they were startled too, begin to strike. The hum from the streets, likewise, seems to swell into a shout. But it is soon over. Before the last clock begins to strike ten, there is a lull. When it has ceased, the fine night, the bright large moon, and multitudes of stars, are left at peace again.
少数步行者开始、停下来、凝视着周围。有的门窗打开，有人出来观看。这是一个响亮的报告，回声很大，嘎嘎作响。它震动了一所房子，至少一个路过的人是这么说的。惊动了附近所有的狗，它们狂吠起来。受惊的猫跑过马路。当狗还在狂吠、嚎叫时——其中一只狗像恶魔一样嚎叫——教堂的时钟似乎也受到了惊吓，开始敲响。同样，街上的嗡嗡声似乎也膨胀成了喊叫声。但很快就结束了。在最后一个时钟敲响十点之前，有一段平静。当它停止时，美好的夜晚，明亮的大月亮和众多的星星又恢复了平静。

Has Mr. Tulkinghorn been disturbed? His windows are dark and quiet, and his door is shut. It must be something unusual indeed to bring him out of his shell. Nothing is heard of him, nothing is seen of him. What power of cannon might it take to shake that rusty old man out of his immovable composure?
图金霍恩先生受到打扰了吗？他的窗户又暗又安静，门也关着。把他带出外壳一定是一件不寻常的事情。没有听到他的任何消息，也没有看到他的任何消息。需要多大威力的大炮才能将那个生锈的老人从一动不动的镇定中摇醒？

For many years the persistent Roman has been pointing, with no particular meaning, from that ceiling. It is not likely that he has any new meaning in him to-night. Once pointing, always pointing—like any Roman, or even Briton, with a single idea. There he is, no doubt, in his impossible attitude, pointing, unavailingly, all night long. Moonlight, darkness, dawn, sunrise, day. There he is still, eagerly pointing, and no one minds him.
多年来，这位执着的罗马人一直在没有任何特殊意义的情况下从天花板上指着。今晚他身上不太可能有任何新的意义。一旦指向，就永远指向——就像任何罗马人，甚至英国人一样，只有一个想法。毫无疑问，他以他那令人难以置信的态度，整夜徒劳地指着。月光，黑暗，黎明，日出，白天。他仍然在那里，热切地指着，没有人理会他。

But a little after the coming of the day come people to clean the rooms. And either the Roman has some new meaning in him, not expressed before, or the foremost of them goes wild, for looking up at his outstretched hand and looking down at what is below it, that person shrieks and flies. The others, looking in as the first one looked, shriek and fly too, and there is an alarm in the street.
但天刚亮不久，就有人来打扫房间了。要么是罗马人在他身上有一些以前没有表达过的新含义，要么是其中最重要的一个变得疯狂，因为抬头看着他伸出的手，低头看着它下面的东西，那个人尖叫着飞走了。其他人也像第一个一样往里看，尖叫着飞走，街上响起了警报。

What does it mean? No light is admitted into the darkened chamber, and people unaccustomed to it enter, and treading softly but heavily, carry a weight into the bedroom and lay it down. There is whispering and wondering all day, strict search of every corner, careful tracing of steps, and careful noting of the disposition of every article of furniture. All eyes look up at the Roman, and all voices murmur, ‘If he could only tell what he saw!’
这是什么意思？黑暗的房间里不透光，不习惯的人走进来，脚步轻柔但沉重，搬着重物走进卧室，放下。整天都在窃窃私语和疑惑，严格搜查每一个角落，仔细追踪脚步，仔细记录每件家具的摆放情况。所有的目光都抬头看着罗马人，所有的声音都低声说道：“要是他能说出他所看到的就好了！”

He is pointing at a table with a bottle (nearly full of wine) and a glass upon it and two candles that were blown out suddenly soon after being lighted. He is pointing at an empty chair and at a stain upon the ground before it that might be almost covered with a hand. These objects lie directly within his range. An excited imagination might suppose that there was something in them so terrific as to drive the rest of the composition, not only the attendant big-legged boys, but the clouds and flowers and pillars too—in short, the very body and soul of Allegory, and all the brains it has—stark mad. It happens surely that every one who comes into the darkened room and looks at these things looks up at the Roman and that he is invested in all eyes with mystery and awe, as if he were a paralysed dumb witness.
他指着一张桌子，桌上放着一个瓶子（几乎装满了酒）和一个玻璃杯，还有两根蜡烛，蜡烛在点燃后突然被吹灭。他指着一张空椅子和椅子前面地上的一块污渍，那块污渍几乎被一只手覆盖了。这些物体就在他的射程之内。兴奋的想象力可能会认为它们中有某种奇妙的东西来驱动构图的其余部分，不仅是伴随的大腿男孩，还有云朵、花朵和柱子——简而言之，寓言的身体和灵魂，以及它拥有的所有大脑——完全疯狂。肯定会发生这样的情况：每个进入黑暗房间看到这些东西的人都会抬头看着罗马人，而他在所有人的目光中都充满了神秘和敬畏，就好像他是一个瘫痪的哑巴目击者一样。

So it shall happen surely, through many years to come, that ghostly stories shall be told of the stain upon the floor, so easy to be covered, so hard to be got out, and that the Roman, pointing from the ceiling shall point, so long as dust and damp and spiders spare him, with far greater significance than he ever had in Mr. Tulkinghorn’s time, and with a deadly meaning. For Mr. Tulkinghorn’s time is over for evermore, and the Roman pointed at the murderous hand uplifted against his life, and pointed helplessly at him, from night to morning, lying face downward on the floor, shot through the heart.
因此，在未来的许多年里，肯定会发生关于地板上污渍的幽灵故事，很容易被覆盖，很难被清除，罗马人从天花板上指着，只要灰尘、潮湿和蜘蛛不伤害他，这对他来说比图金霍恩先生那个时代的意义要大得多，而且具有致命的意义。因为图金霍恩先生的时代已经永远结束了，罗马人指着那只举起的凶手，指着他的生命，无助地指着他，从晚上到早晨，脸朝下躺在地板上，射穿了心脏。

CHAPTER XLIX
第二十九章


Dutiful Friendship
尽职的友谊

A great annual occasion has come round in the establishment of Mr. Matthew Bagnet, otherwise Lignum Vitae, ex-artilleryman and present bassoon-player. An occasion of feasting and festival. The celebration of a birthday in the family.
Matthew Bagnet 先生（又名 Lignum Vitae），前炮兵，现巴松管演奏家，成立了一年一度的盛事。盛宴和节日的场合。家庭中庆祝生日。

It is not Mr. Bagnet’s birthday. Mr. Bagnet merely distinguishes that epoch in the musical instrument business by kissing the children with an extra smack before breakfast, smoking an additional pipe after dinner, and wondering towards evening what his poor old mother is thinking about it—a subject of infinite speculation, and rendered so by his mother having departed this life twenty years. Some men rarely revert to their father, but seem, in the bank-books of their remembrance, to have transferred all the stock of filial affection into their mother’s name. Mr. Bagnet is one of like his trade the better for that. If I had kept clear of his old girl causes him usually to make the nounsubstantive ‘goodness’ of the feminine gender.
这不是巴格内特先生的生日。巴格内特先生只是通过在早餐前多亲吻孩子们一巴掌，晚饭后多吸一支烟斗，以及在晚上想知道他可怜的老母亲在想什么——这是一个无限猜测的话题，来区分乐器行业的那个时代。这是他母亲去世二十年造成的。有些男人很少回到父亲身边，但在他们记忆的银行存折中，似乎已经把所有的孝顺之情都转移到了母亲的名下。巴格内特先生就是这样的人，他的行业因此而变得更好。如果我远离他的老女儿，他通常会认为女性的“善良”是非实质性的。

It is not the birthday of one of the three children. Those occasions are kept with some marks of distinction, but they rarely overleap the bounds of happy returns and a pudding. On young Woolwich’s last birthday, Mr. Bagnet certainly did, after observing on his growth and general advancement, proceed, in a moment of profound reflection on the changes wrought by time, to examine him in the catechism, accomplishing with extreme accuracy the questions number one and two, ‘What is your name?’ and ‘Who gave you that name?’ but there failing in the exact precision of his memory and substituting for number three the question ‘And how do you like that name?’ which he propounded with a sense of its importance, in itself so edifying and improving as to give it quite an orthodox air. This, however, was a speciality on that particular birthday, and not a general solemnity.
这不是三个孩子之一的生日。这些场合都带有一些显着的标志，但它们很少超越幸福回报和布丁的界限。在年轻的伍尔维奇的最后一个生日那天，巴格内特先生在观察了他的成长和总体进步之后，在深刻反思时间所造成的变化的时刻，继续在教义问答中对他进行了检查，极其准确地完成了问题编号第一和第二，“你叫什么名字？”和“谁给你起的这个名字？”但他的记忆不够精确，用他提出的问题“你喜欢这个名字吗？”来代替第三个。具有其重要性的意识，其本身具有启发性和改进性，以至于赋予它一种相当正统的氛围。然而，这是那个特定生日的特殊仪式，而不是一般的庄严仪式。

It is the old girl’s birthday, and that is the greatest holiday and reddest-letter day in Mr. Bagnet’s calendar. The auspicious event is always commemorated according to certain forms settled and prescribed by Mr. Bagnet some years since. Mr. Bagnet, being deeply convinced that to have a pair of fowls for dinner is to attain the highest pitch of imperial luxury, invariably goes forth himself very early in the morning of this day to buy a pair; he is, as invariably, taken in by the vendor and installed in the possession of the oldest inhabitants of any coop in Europe. Returning with these triumphs of toughness tied up in a clean blue and white cotton handkerchief (essential to the arrangements), he in a casual manner invites Mrs. Bagnet to declare at breakfast what she would like for dinner. Mrs. Bagnet, by a coincidence never known to fail, replying fowls, Mr. Bagnet instantly produces his bundle from a place of concealment amidst general amazement and rejoicing. He further requires that the old girl shall do nothing all day long but sit in her very best gown and be served by himself and the young people. As he is not illustrious for his cookery, this may be supposed to be a matter of state rather than enjoyment on the old girl’s part, but she keeps her state with all imaginable cheerfulness.
今天是老女孩的生日，这是巴格尼特先生日历上最伟大的节日和最红的日子。人们总是按照巴格尼特先生几年后制定和规定的某些形式来纪念这一吉祥的事件。巴格内特先生深信晚宴上能吃到一对家禽就是达到了皇家奢华的最高境界，因此他总是一大早就出门去买一对。他总是被小贩收留，并安置在欧洲所有鸡舍中最年长的居民手中。带着这些坚韧的胜利回来，他用干净的蓝白棉手帕（对于安排来说是必不可少的）绑着，以一种随意的方式邀请巴格尼特夫人在早餐时宣布她想吃什么晚餐。巴格内特夫人，巧合地回答说，从来没有失败过，巴格内特先生立即从一个隐蔽的地方拿出了他的包袱，大家都感到惊讶和高兴。他还要求老姑娘整天什么都不做，只能穿着最好的礼服坐在那儿，由他和年轻人伺候。由于他的厨艺并不出名，这可能被认为是一个状态问题，而不是老女孩的享受，但她以所有可以想象的快乐保持着自己的状态。

On this present birthday, Mr. Bagnet has accomplished the usual preliminaries. He has bought two specimens of poultry, which, if there be any truth in adages, were certainly not caught with chaff, to be prepared for the spit; he has amazed and rejoiced the family by their unlooked-for production; he is himself directing the roasting of the poultry; and Mrs. Bagnet, with her wholesome brown fingers itching to prevent what she sees going wrong, sits in her gown of ceremony, an honoured guest.
在今年的生日那天，巴格内特先生完成了通常的准备工作。他买了两只家禽标本，如果这句谚语有任何道理的话，那肯定不是用糠秕抓起来的，是为了准备吐口水。他的意外收获让全家人都感到惊讶和高兴。他亲自指挥家禽的烤制；巴格内特夫人身穿礼服，以尊贵的客人身份坐着，健康的棕色手指渴望防止出现问题。

Quebec and Malta lay the cloth for dinner, while Woolwich, serving, as beseems him, under his father, keeps the fowls revolving. To these young scullions Mrs. Bagnet occasionally imparts a wink, or a shake of the head, or a crooked face, as they made mistakes.
魁北克和马耳他铺好了晚餐的布，而伍尔维奇则在他父亲的领导下服务，让家禽不停地旋转。当这些年轻的仆人犯错时，巴格内特夫人偶尔会向他们眨眨眼，摇摇头，或者做个鬼脸。

‘At half after one.’ Says Mr. Bagnet. ‘To the minute. They’ll be done.’
“一球接着一球。”巴格内特先生说。 ‘到分钟为止。他们会完成的。

Mrs. Bagnet, with anguish, beholds one of them at a standstill before the fire and beginning to burn.
巴格内特夫人痛苦地看到其中一个停在火前并开始燃烧。

‘You shall have a dinner, old girl,’ says Mr. Bagnet. ‘Fit for a queen.’
“你该吃晚饭了，老姑娘，”巴格尼特先生说。 “适合女王。”

Mrs. Bagnet shows her white teeth cheerfully, but to the perception of her son, betrays so much uneasiness of spirit that he is impelled by the dictates of affection to ask her, with his eyes, what is the matter, thus standing, with his eyes wide open, more oblivious of the fowls than before, and not affording the least hope of a return to consciousness. Fortunately his elder sister perceives the cause of the agitation in Mrs. Bagnet’s breast and with an admonitory poke recalls him. The stopped fowls going round again, Mrs. Bagnet closes her eyes in the intensity of her relief.
巴格内特夫人高兴地露出了她洁白的牙齿，但在她儿子看来，却暴露了他精神上的不安，以至于他出于感情的驱使，用眼睛问她出了什么事，于是站起来，用他的眼睛问她发生了什么事。眼睛睁得大大的，比以前更加忘记了那些家禽，并且没有任何恢复意识的希望。幸运的是，他的姐姐看出了巴格内特夫人胸口激动的原因，并警告性地戳了戳他，把他召回来。停了下来的家禽又重新飞了起来，巴格内特太太如释重负地闭上了眼睛。

‘George will look us up,’ says Mr. Bagnet. ‘At half after four. To the moment. How many years, old girl. Has George looked us up. This afternoon?’
“乔治会找我们的，”巴格内特先生说。 “四点半。”到现在为止。多少年了，老姑娘。乔治查过我们吗？今天下午？'

‘Ah, Lignum, Lignum, as many as make an old woman of a young one, I begin to think. Just about that, and no less,’ returns Mrs. Bagnet, laughing and shaking her head.
“啊，Lignum，Lignum，我开始想，有多少个就可以使一个老妇人变成一个年轻妇人。”巴格内特夫人笑着摇摇头，回答道。

‘Old girl,’ says Mr. Bagnet, ‘never mind. You’d be as young as ever you was. If you wasn’t younger. Which you are. As everybody knows.’
“老姑娘，”巴格内特先生说，“没关系。”你会像以前一样年轻。如果你不年轻的话。你是哪个。众所周知。

Quebec and Malta here exclaim, with clapping of hands, that Bluffy is sure to bring mother something, and begin to speculate on what it will be.
魁北克和马耳他在这里拍着手惊呼，布拉菲一定会给妈妈带来一些东西，并开始猜测会是什么。

‘Do you know, Lignum,’ says Mrs. Bagnet, casting a glance on the table-cloth, and winking ‘salt!’ at Malta with her right eye, and shaking the pepper away from Quebec with her head, ‘I begin to think George is in the roving way again.
“你知道吗，利格纳姆，”巴格内特夫人看了一眼桌布，用右眼对马耳他眨了眨眼，“盐！”，用头把魁北克的胡椒甩开，“我开始我想乔治又开始流浪了。

‘George,’ returns Mr. Bagnet, ‘will never desert. And leave his old comrade. In the lurch. Don’t be afraid of it.’
“乔治，”巴格内特先生回答道，“永远不会逃跑。”并离开他的老战友。陷入困境。不要害怕它。

‘No, Lignum. No. I don’t say he will. I don’t think he will. But if he could get over this money trouble of his, I believe he would be off.’
“不，利格努姆。不，我没说他会的。我认为他不会。但如果他能克服这个金钱问题，我相信他会成功的。”

Mr. Bagnet asks why.
巴格内特先生问为什么。

‘Well,’ returns his wife, considering, ‘George seems to me to be getting not a little impatient and restless. I don’t say but what he’s as free as ever. Of course he must be free or he wouldn’t be George, but he smarts and seems put out.’
“嗯，”他的妻子回答道，考虑道，“在我看来，乔治似乎变得不耐烦和不安了。我不说，但他一如既往地自由。当然，他必须是自由的，否则他就不是乔治了，但他很聪明，而且似乎很沮丧。

‘He’s extra-drilled,’ says Mr. Bagnet. ‘By a lawyer. Who would put the devil out.’
“他训练有素，”巴格内特先生说。 ‘由律师。谁能把魔鬼赶出去。

‘There’s something in that,’ his wife assents; ‘but so it is, Lignum.’
“这里面有一些东西，”他的妻子同意道。 “但事实就是如此，Lignum。”

Further conversation is prevented, for the time, by the necessity under which Mr. Bagnet finds himself of directing the whole force of his mind to the dinner, which is a little endangered by the dry humour of the fowls in not yielding any gravy, and also by the made gravy acquiring no flavour and turning out of a flaxen complexion. With a similar perverseness, the potatoes crumble off forks in the process of peeling, upheaving from their centres in every direction, as if they were subject to earthquakes. The legs of the fowls, too, are longer than could be desired, and extremely scaly. Overcoming these disadvantages to the best of his ability, Mr. Bagnet at last dishes and they sit down at table, Mrs. Bagnet occupying the guest’s place at his right hand.
进一步的谈话暂时被阻止了，因为巴格内特先生发现自己必须将全部精力集中在晚餐上，而家禽的冷幽默不产生任何肉汁，这有点危险，而且另外，制成的肉汁没有任何味道，并且肤色呈亚麻色。类似的反常现象是，土豆在剥皮的过程中从叉子上摔碎，从中心向各个方向隆起，就像遭受了地震一样。家禽的腿也比预期的要长，而且鳞片非常多。巴格内特先生尽最大努力克服了这些缺点，最后开始了菜肴，他们在餐桌旁坐下，巴格内特夫人坐在他右手边的客人位置。

It is well for the old girl that she has but one birthday in a year, for two such indulgences in poultry might be injurious. Every kind of finer tendon and ligament that is in the nature of poultry to possess is developed in these specimens in the singular form of guitar-strings. Their limbs appear to have struck roots into their breasts and bodies, as aged trees strike roots into the earth. Their legs are so hard as to encourage the idea that they must have devoted the greater part of their long and arduous lives to pedestrian exercises and the walking of matches. But Mr. Bagnet, unconscious of these little defects, sets his heart on Mrs. Bagnet eating a most severe quantity of the delicacies before her; and as that good old girl would not cause him a moment’s disappointment on any day, least of all on such a day, for any consideration, she imperils her digestion fearfully. How young Woolwich cleans the drum-sticks without being of ostrich descent, his anxious mother is at a loss to understand.
对于这个老女孩来说，一年只有一次生日是件好事，因为两次如此纵容家禽可能会造成伤害。家禽本性所拥有的每一种细肌腱和韧带都是在这些标本中以吉他弦的单一形式发育出来的。他们的四肢似乎已扎根于胸部和身体，就像老树扎根于大地一样。他们的腿如此坚硬，以至于让人觉得他们一定把漫长而艰苦的一生的大部分时间都花在了步行锻炼和走火柴上。但是巴格内特先生没有意识到这些小缺陷，他一心想让巴格内特太太吃掉她面前的最大量的美味佳肴。因为那个善良的老女孩在任何一天都不会让他感到失望，尤其是在这样的一天，无论出于何种考虑，她都会严重危及自己的消化能力。年轻的伍尔维奇如何在没有鸵鸟血统的情况下清理鸡腿，他焦急的母亲无法理解。

The old girl has another trial to undergo after the conclusion of the repast in sitting in state to see the room cleared, the hearth swept, and the dinner-service washed up and polished in the backyard. The great delight and energy with which the two young ladies apply themselves to these duties, turning up their skirts in imitation of their mother and skating in and out on little scaffolds of pattens, inspire the highest hopes for the future, but some anxiety for the present. The same causes lead to confusion of tongues, a clattering of crockery, a rattling of tin mugs, a whisking of brooms, and an expenditure of water, all in excess, while the saturation of the young ladies themselves is almost too moving a spectacle for Mrs. Bagnet to look upon with the calmness proper to her position. At last the various cleansing processes are triumphantly completed; Quebec and Malta appear in fresh attire, smiling and dry; pipes, tobacco, and something to drink are placed upon the table; and the old girl enjoys the first peace of mind she ever knows on the day of this delightful entertainment.
吃完饭后，老姑娘还要经受另一次考验，要端庄地坐着，看着房间被清理干净，炉灶被打扫，餐具在后院被清洗和擦亮。两位年轻女士以极大的喜悦和精力投入到这些职责中，模仿她们的母亲卷起裙子，在小脚手架上滑进滑出，激发了对未来的最高希望，但也对未来感到有些焦虑。展示。同样的原因导致了舌头的混乱、陶器的碰撞声、锡杯的嘎嘎声、扫帚的扫动声和水的消耗，所有这些都过量了，而年轻女士们本身的饱和度几乎太动人了。巴格内特夫人的表情十分平静，与她的地位相符。终于，各项清洗过程顺利完成；魁北克和马耳他穿着清新的服装，微笑着，干爽；桌子上放着烟斗、烟草和饮料。在这场令人愉快的娱乐活动的那天，老女孩第一次享受到了心灵的平静。

When Mr. Bagnet takes his usual seat, the hands of the clock are very near to half-past four; as they mark it accurately, Mr. Bagnet announces, ‘George! Military time.’
当巴格内特先生坐到他平常的座位上时，时钟的指针已经接近四点半了。当他们准确地标记时，巴格内特先生宣布：“乔治！”军事时间。

It is George, and he has hearty congratulations for the old girl (whom he kisses on the great occasion), and for the children, and for Mr. Bagnet. ‘Happy returns to all!’ says Mr. George.
这是乔治，他衷心祝贺老女孩（他在这个伟大的时刻亲吻了她）、孩子们和巴格内特先生。 “祝大家回归愉快！”乔治先生说道。

‘But, George, old man!’ cries Mrs. Bagnet, looking at him curiously. ‘What’s come to you?’
“但是，乔治，老兄！”巴格内特太太好奇地看着他，喊道。 “你怎么了？”

‘Come to me?’
'到我这里来？'

‘Ah! You are so white, George—for you—and look so shocked. Now don’t he, Lignum?’
'啊！乔治，你太白了——对你来说——而且看起来很震惊。现在不是吗，Lignum？

‘George,’ says Mr. Bagnet, ‘tell the old girl. What’s the matter.’
“乔治，”巴格内特先生说，“告诉那个老女孩。”怎么了。'

‘I didn’t know I looked white,’ says the trooper, passing his hand over his brow, ‘and I didn’t know I looked shocked, and I’m sorry I do. But the truth is, that boy who was taken in at my place died yesterday afternoon, and it has rather knocked me over.’
“我不知道自己看起来是白人，”这名士兵用手捂住额头说道，“我也不知道自己看起来很震惊，对此我感到很抱歉。”但事实是，我家收留的那个男孩昨天下午死了，这让我很震惊。”

‘Poor creetur!’ says Mrs. Bagnet with a mother’s pity. ‘Is he gone? Dear, dear!’
“可怜的家伙！”巴格内特太太带着母亲的怜悯说道。 ‘他走了吗？亲爱的，亲爱的！

‘I didn’t mean to say anything about it, for it’s not birthday talk, but you have got it out of me, you see, before I sit down. I should have roused up in a minute,’ says the trooper, making himself speak more gaily, ‘but you’re so quick, Mrs. Bagnet.’
“我本来不想对此说什么，因为这不是生日谈话，但你看，在我坐下之前，你已经从我这里得到了。 “我本来应该立刻就醒过来的，”士兵说，让自己的语气变得更加愉快，“但是你太快了，巴格内特夫人。”

‘You’re right. The old girl,’ says Mr. Bagnet. ‘Is as quick. As powder.’
'你说得对。老女孩，”巴格内特先生说。 ‘一样快。作为粉末。’

‘And what’s more, she’s the subject of the day, and we’ll stick to her,’ cries Mr. George. ‘See here, I have brought a little brooch along with me. It’s a poor thing, you know, but it’s a keepsake. That’s all the good it is, Mrs. Bagnet.’
“更重要的是，她是今天的主题，我们会坚持她，”乔治先生喊道。 “看这里，我随身带着一枚小胸针。你知道，这是一件可怜的事情，但它是一个纪念品。巴格内特夫人，这就是最好的结果。

Mr. George produces his present, which is greeted with admiring leapings and clappings by the young family, and with a species of reverential admiration by Mr. Bagnet. ‘Old girl,’ says Mr. Bagnet. ‘Tell him my opinion of it.’
乔治先生拿出了他的礼物，年轻的一家人以赞赏的跳跃和鼓掌的方式迎接了礼物，巴格内特先生也带着一种崇敬的钦佩。 “老姑娘，”巴格内特先生说。 “告诉他我对此的看法。”

‘Why, it’s a wonder, George!’ Mrs. Bagnet exclaims. ‘It’s the beautifullest thing that ever was seen!’
“哎呀，这真是一个奇迹，乔治！”巴格内特夫人惊呼道。 “这是见过的最美丽的东西！”

‘Good!’ says Mr. Bagnet. ‘My opinion.’
“好！”巴格内特先生说。 '我的想法。'

‘It’s so pretty, George,’ cries Mrs. Bagnet, turning it on all sides and holding it out at arm’s length, ‘that it seems too choice for me.’
“乔治，它太漂亮了，”巴格内特夫人一边叫道，一边把它翻转过来，伸出一臂远的距离，“这对我来说似乎是太难选择了。”

‘Bad!’ says Mr. Bagnet. ‘Not my opinlon.’
“糟糕！”巴格内特先生说。 “不是我的意见。”

‘But whatever it is, a hundred thousand thanks, old fellow,’ says Mrs. Bagnet, her eyes sparkling with pleasure and her hand stretched out to him; ‘and though I have been a crossgrained soldier’s wife to you sometimes, George, we are as strong friends, I am sure, in reality, as ever can be. Now you shall fasten it on yourself, for good luck, if you will, George.’
“不管是什么，老伙计，十万次感谢，”巴格内特太太说道，她的眼睛里闪烁着喜悦的光芒，她向他伸出了手。 “虽然有时我对你来说是一个脾气暴躁的士兵的妻子，乔治，但我确信，我们是亲密的朋友，事实上，一如既往。”现在你应该把它系在自己身上，祝你好运，如果你愿意的话，乔治。”

The children close up to see it done, and Mr. Bagnet looks over young Woolwich’s head to see it done with an interest so maturely wooden, yet pleasantly childish, that Mrs. Bagnet cannot help laughing in her airy way and saying, ‘Oh, Lignum, Lignum, what a precious old chap you are!’ But the trooper fails to fasten the brooch. His hand shakes, he is nervous, and it falls off. ‘Would any one believe this?’ says he, catching it as it drops and looking round. ‘I am so out of sorts that I bungle at an easy job like this!’
孩子们凑近看这件事完成了，巴格尼特先生越过小伍尔维奇的头，看到这一切都完成了，他的兴趣如此成熟木讷，但又可爱地孩子气，巴格尼特太太忍不住轻快地笑起来，说：“哦，利格南，利格南，你真是个可贵的老伙计！”但是士兵没能扣好胸针。他的手颤抖着，他很紧张，手就掉了下来。 “有人相信这个吗？”他一边说，一边接住它掉落的东西，环顾四周。 “我心情不好，竟然搞砸了这么轻松的工作！”

Mrs. Bagnet concludes that for such a case there is no remedy like a pipe, and fastening the brooch herself in a twinkling, causes the trooper to be inducted into his usual snug place and the pipes to be got into action. ‘If that don’t bring you round, George,’ says she, ‘just throw your eye across here at your present now and then, and the two together MUST do it.’
巴格内特夫人得出的结论是，对于这种情况，没有像烟斗这样的补救措施，她自己瞬间扣紧胸针，使士兵被引导到他通常舒适的位置，烟斗开始发挥作用。 “如果这还不能让你清醒过来，乔治，”她说，“就时不时地把目光投向这里，看看你的礼物，两个人一起必须做到这一点。”

‘You ought to do it of yourself,’ George answers; ‘I know that very well, Mrs. Bagnet. I’ll tell you how, one way and another, the blues have got to be too many for me. Here was this poor lad. ‘Twas dull work to see him dying as he did, and not be able to help him.’
“你应该自己做，”乔治回答道。 “我很清楚这一点，巴格内特夫人。我会以另一种方式告诉你，布鲁斯对我来说太多了。这就是这个可怜的小伙子。 “眼睁睁地看着他死去，却无法帮助他，这是一件无聊的工作。”

‘What do you mean, George? You did help him. You took him under your roof.’
‘你什么意思，乔治？你确实帮助了他。你把他带到了你的屋檐下。

‘I helped him so far, but that’s little. I mean, Mrs. Bagnet, there he was, dying without ever having been taught much more than to know his right hand from his left. And he was too far gone to be helped out of that.’
“到目前为止，我帮助了他，但那是微不足道的。我的意思是，巴格内特夫人，他就在那儿，临死前除了知道他的右手和左手之外，没有受过更多的教育。他已经走得太远了，无法摆脱困境。

‘Ah, poor creetur!’ says Mrs. Bagnet.
“啊，可怜的怪物！”巴格尼特夫人说。

‘Then,’ says the trooper, not yet lighting his pipe, and passing his heavy hand over his hair, ‘that brought up Gridley in a man’s mind. His was a bad case too, in a different way. Then the two got mixed up in a man’s mind with a flinty old rascal who had to do with both. And to think of that rusty carbine, stock and barrel, standing up on end in his corner, hard, indifferent, taking everything so evenly—it made flesh and blood tingle, I do assure you.’
“那么，”士兵说道，他还没有点燃烟斗，用沉重的手抚摸着自己的头发，“这让人们想起了格里德利。他的案子也是一个坏案子，只是方式不同。然后，在一个人的心目中，这两个人就和一个冷酷无情的老流氓混在一起了，而他和这两个人都有关系。想到那把生锈的卡宾枪、枪托和枪管，直立在他的角落里，冷漠、冷漠，如此均匀地承受一切——我向你保证，这让血肉感到刺痛。

‘My advice to you,’ returns Mrs. Bagnet, ‘is to light your pipe and tingle that way. It’s wholesomer and comfortabler, and better for the health altogether.’
“我给你的建议是，”巴格内特夫人回答道，“就是点燃你的烟斗，然后用这种方式点燃烟斗。”它更健康、更舒适，而且更有利于健康。”

‘You’re right,’ says the trooper, ‘and I’ll do it.’
“你说得对，”警察说，“我会这么做的。”

So he does it, though still with an indignant gravity that impresses the young Bagnets, and even causes Mr. Bagnet to defer the ceremony of drinking Mrs. Bagnet’s health, always given by himself on these occasions in a speech of exemplary terseness. But the young ladies having composed what Mr. Bagnet is in the habit of calling ‘the mixtur,’ and George’s pipe being now in a glow, Mr. Bagnet considers it his duty to proceed to the toast of the evening. He addresses the assembled company in the following terms.
于是他就这么做了，尽管他的态度仍然充满愤慨和严肃，这给年轻的巴格内特夫妇留下了深刻的印象，甚至导致巴格内特先生推迟了为巴格内特夫人健康干杯的仪式，而这种仪式总是由他自己在这些场合以简洁的演讲进行。但是，年轻的女士们已经创作了巴格内特先生习惯上所说的“混合酒”，而乔治的烟斗现在闪闪发光，巴格内特先生认为他有责任继续今晚的祝酒活动。他对组装后的公司做了如下讲话。

‘George. Woolwich. Quebec. Malta. This is her birthday. Take a day’s march. And you won’t find such another. Here’s towards her!’
'乔治。伍尔维奇。魁北克。马耳他。这是她的生日。进行一天的行军。而且你不会再找到这样的人了。这是对着她的！

The toast having been drunk with enthusiasm, Mrs. Bagnet returns thanks in a neat address of corresponding brevity. This model composition is limited to the three words ‘And wishing yours!’ which the old girl follows up with a nod at everybody in succession and a well-regulated swig of the mixture. This she again follows up, on the present occasion, by the wholly unexpected exclamation, ‘Here’s a man!’
巴格内特夫人热情地喝完干杯后，以简洁明了的致辞表达了谢意。这个模型的成分仅限于三个词“祝愿你的！”老女孩接着对每个人连续点头，并有规律地喝了一口混合物。此时此刻，她又发出了完全出乎意料的惊呼：“这是一个男人！”

Here IS a man, much to the astonishment of the little company, looking in at the parlour-door. He is a sharp-eyed man—a quick keen man—and he takes in everybody’s look at him, all at once, individually and collectively, in a manner that stamps him a remarkable man.
令这小群人惊讶的是，这里有一个男人，正朝客厅的门望去。他是一个目光敏锐的人——一个敏捷而敏锐的人——他能同时捕捉到每个人的目光，无论是个人的还是集体的，这使他成为一个非凡的人。

‘George,’ says the man, nodding, ‘how do you find yourself?’
“乔治，”那人点点头说，“你觉得自己怎么样？”

‘Why, it’s Bucket!’ cries Mr. George.
“哎呀，是巴克特！”乔治先生喊道。

‘Yes,’ says the man, coming in and closing the door. ‘I was going down the street here when I happened to stop and look in at the musical instruments in the shop-window—a friend of mine is in want of a second-hand wiolinceller of a good tone—and I saw a party enjoying themselves, and I thought it was you in the corner; I thought I couldn’t be mistaken. How goes the world with you, George, at the present moment? Pretty smooth? And with you, ma’am? And with you, governor? And Lord,’ says Mr. Bucket, opening his arms, ‘here’s children too! You may do anything with me if you only show me children. Give us a kiss, my pets. No occasion to inquire who YOUR father and mother is. Never saw such a likeness in my life!’
“是的，”那人说，走进来并关上了门。 “我正沿着这里的街道走，突然停下来看看商店橱窗里的乐器——我的一个朋友想要一把音色好听的二手小提琴——我看到一个聚会正在享受他们自己，我以为角落里的是你；我想我不会弄错的。乔治，你现在的世界怎么样？很光滑吗？和你在一起吗，女士？和你在一起吗，州长？天哪，”巴克特先生张开双臂说道，“这里还有孩子们！只要你只让我看到孩子们，你就可以对我做任何事。给我们一个吻吧，我的宠物们。没有机会询问你的父亲和母亲是谁。我一生中从未见过如此相似的人！

Mr. Bucket, not unwelcome, has sat himself down next to Mr. George and taken Quebec and Malta on his knees. ‘You pretty dears,’ says Mr. Bucket, ‘give us another kiss; it’s the only thing I’m greedy in. Lord bless you, how healthy you look! And what may be the ages of these two, ma’am? I should put ‘em down at the figures of about eight and ten.’
巴克特先生并不不受欢迎，他在乔治先生旁边坐下，并跪下了魁北克和马耳他。 “亲爱的，”巴克特先生说，“再给我们一个吻吧！”这是我唯一贪心的事情。愿上帝保佑你，你看起来多么健康！女士，这两个人的年龄可能是多少？我应该把它们记在大约八和十的数字上。

‘You’re very near, sir,’ says Mrs. Bagnet.
“你已经很近了，先生，”巴格内特夫人说。

‘I generally am near,’ returns Mr. Bucket, ‘being so fond of children. A friend of mine has had nineteen of ‘em, ma’am, all by one mother, and she’s still as fresh and rosy as the morning. Not so much so as yourself, but, upon my soul, she comes near you! And what do you call these, my darling?’ pursues Mr. Bucket, pinching Malta’s cheeks. ‘These are peaches, these are. Bless your heart! And what do you think about father? Do you think father could recommend a second-hand wiolinceller of a good tone for Mr. Bucket’s friend, my dear? My name’s Bucket. Ain’t that a funny name?’
“我一般都很喜欢孩子，”巴克特先生回答道，“我非常喜欢孩子。”女士，我的一个朋友已经生了十九个孩子，都是由一位母亲生的，她仍然像早晨一样清新、红润。不像你自己那么重要，但是，在我的灵魂上，她走近你了！ “亲爱的，你管这些叫什么？”巴克特先生追问，捏着马耳他的脸颊。 “这些是桃子，这些是。祝福你的心！你觉得父亲怎么样？亲爱的，你认为父亲能为巴克特先生的朋友推荐一把音色好听的二手小提琴吗？我的名字是桶。这不是一个有趣的名字吗？

These blandishments have entirely won the family heart. Mrs. Bagnet forgets the day to the extent of filling a pipe and a glass for Mr. Bucket and waiting upon him hospitably. She would be glad to receive so pleasant a character under any circumstances, but she tells him that as a friend of George’s she is particularly glad to see him this evening, for George has not been in his usual spirits.
这些甜言蜜语完全赢得了一家人的心。巴格尼特夫人忘记了这一天，甚至为巴克特先生斟满了烟斗和一杯酒，并热情地招待他。在任何情况下，她都会很高兴收到如此令人愉快的角色，但她告诉他，作为乔治的朋友，她特别高兴今晚见到他，因为乔治一直没有像往常那样精神饱满。

‘Not in his usual spirits?’ exclaims Mr. Bucket. ‘Why, I never heard of such a thing! What’s the matter, George? You don’t intend to tell me you’ve been out of spirits. What should you be out of spirits for? You haven’t got anything on your mind, you know.’
“他精神不正常？”巴克特先生惊呼道。 ‘哎呀，我从来没有听说过这样的事！怎么了，乔治？你不想告诉我你精神不振。你应该因为什么而没精神呢？你知道，你脑子里什么都没有。

‘Nothing particular,’ returns the trooper.
“没什么特别的，”士兵回答道。

‘I should think not,’ rejoins Mr. Bucket. ‘What could you have on your mind, you know! And have these pets got anything on THEIR minds, eh? Not they, but they’ll be upon the minds of some of the young fellows, some of these days, and make ‘em precious lowspirited. I ain’t much of a prophet, but I can tell you that, ma’am.’
“我认为不会，”巴克特先生回答道。 ‘你心里到底在想什么，你知道吗！这些宠物有什么想法吗？不是他们，但他们会出现在一些年轻人的脑海里，在某些日子里，让他们变得精神低落。我算不上什么先知，但我可以告诉你，女士。”

Mrs. Bagnet, quite charmed, hopes Mr. Bucket has a family of his own.
巴格尼特夫人非常着迷，她希望巴克特先生有一个自己的家庭。

‘There, ma’am!’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Would you believe it? No, I haven’t. My wife and a lodger constitute my family. Mrs. Bucket is as fond of children as myself and as wishful to have ‘em, but no. So it is. Worldly goods are divided unequally, and man must not repine. What a very nice backyard, ma’am! Any way out of that yard, now?’
“好了，女士！”巴克特先生说。 ‘你相信吗？不，我没有。我的妻子和房客构成了我的家庭。巴克特太太和我一样喜欢孩子，也希望拥有他们，但没有。确实如此。世间财物分配不均，人不可怨天尤人。多么漂亮的后院啊，女士！现在有办法离开那个院子吗？

There is no way out of that yard.
没有办法离开那个院子。

‘Ain’t there really?’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘I should have thought there might have been. Well, I don’t know as I ever saw a backyard that took my fancy more. Would you allow me to look at it? Thank you. No, I see there’s no way out. But what a very goodproportioned yard it is!’
“真的没有吗？”巴克特先生说。 “我早该想到可能会有。好吧，我不知道我是否见过比这更让我喜欢的后院。你能让我看一下吗？谢谢。不，我看没有出路。但这是一个多么匀称的院子呀！

Having cast his sharp eye all about it, Mr. Bucket returns to his chair next his friend Mr. George and pats Mr. George affectionately on the shoulder.
巴克特先生用锐利的目光注视着这一切，然后回到朋友乔治先生旁边的椅子上，亲切地拍拍乔治先生的肩膀。

‘How are your spirits now, George?’
“乔治，你现在精神怎么样？”

‘All right now,’ returns the trooper.
“好吧，”士兵回答道。

‘That’s your sort!’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Why should you ever have been otherwise? A man of your fine figure and constitution has no right to be out of spirits. That ain’t a chest to be out of spirits, is it, ma’am? And you haven’t got anything on your mind, you know, George; what could you have on your mind!’
“这就是你喜欢的类型！”巴克特先生说道。 ‘你为什么要不然呢？像你这样身材好、体质好的男人，没有权利情绪低落。那不是一个没有精神的胸部，是吗，女士？你知道，乔治，你脑子里什么都没有；你到底在想什么！

Somewhat harping on this phrase, considering the extent and variety of his conversational powers, Mr. Bucket twice or thrice repeats it to the pipe he lights, and with a listening face that is particularly his own. But the sun of his sociality soon recovers from this brief eclipse and shines again.
考虑到巴克特先生的谈话能力的范围和多样性，他对着他点燃的烟斗重复了两三次这句话，并带着一张特别属于他自己的倾听脸。但他的社交阳光很快就从这短暂的日食中恢复过来，再次闪耀。

‘And this is brother, is it, my dears?’ says Mr. Bucket, referring to Quebec and Malta for information on the subject of young Woolwich. ‘And a nice brother he is—half-brother I mean to say. For he’s too old to be your boy, ma’am.’
“这是兄弟，是吗，亲爱的？”巴克特先生说，他指的是魁北克和马耳他，以获取有关年轻伍尔维奇的信息。 “他是一个好兄弟——我是说，他是同父异母的兄弟。”因为他太老了，不适合做你的孩子，女士。”

‘I can certify at all events that he is not anybody else’s,’ returns Mrs. Bagnet, laughing.
“无论如何，我可以证明他不是别人的。”巴格内特夫人笑着回答道。

‘Well, you do surprise me! Yet he’s like you, there’s no denying. Lord, he’s wonderfully like you! But about what you may call the brow, you know, THERE his father comes out!’ Mr. Bucket compares the faces with one eye shut up, while Mr. Bagnet smokes in stolid satisfaction.
‘好吧，你真让我惊讶！但他就像你一样，这是无可否认的。主啊，他非常像你！但是关于你所谓的眉毛，你知道，他的父亲出来了！”巴克特先生闭着一只眼睛比较着面孔，而巴格内特先生则冷漠地满意地抽烟。

This is an opportunity for Mrs. Bagnet to inform him that the boy is George’s godson.
巴格内特夫人借此机会告诉他，这个男孩是乔治的教子。

‘George’s godson, is he?’ rejoins Mr. Bucket with extreme cordiality. ‘I must shake hands over again with George’s godson. Godfather and godson do credit to one another. And what do you intend to make of him, ma’am? Does he show any turn for any musical instrument?’
“乔治的教子，是吗？”巴克特先生极其热情地回答道。 “我必须再次与乔治的教子握手。教父和教子彼此有信用。女士，您打算怎样对待他？他对任何乐器有兴趣吗？

Mr. Bagnet suddenly interposes, ‘Plays the fife. Beautiful.’
巴格内特先生突然插嘴：“吹横笛。”美丽的。'

‘Would you believe it, governor,’ says Mr. Bucket, struck by the coincidence, ‘that when I was a boy I played the fife myself? Not in a scientific way, as I expect he does, but by ear. Lord bless you! ‘British Grenadiers’—there’s a tune to warm an Englishman up! COULD you give us ‘British Grenadiers,’ my fine fellow?’
“州长，您相信吗？”巴克特先生对这个巧合感到震惊，说道，“当我还是个孩子的时候，我自己也吹过横笛？”不是像我期望的那样以科学的方式，而是通过耳朵。主祝福你！ “英国掷弹兵”——有一首曲子可以让英国人热血沸腾！你能给我们“英国掷弹兵”吗，我的好朋友？

Nothing could be more acceptable to the little circle than this call upon young Woolwich, who immediately fetches his fife and performs the stirring melody, during which performance Mr. Bucket, much enlivened, beats time and never falls to come in sharp with the burden, ‘British Gra-a-anadeers!’ In short, he shows so much musical taste that Mr. Bagnet actually takes his pipe from his lips to express his conviction that he is a singer. Mr. Bucket receives the harmonious impeachment so modestly, confessing how that he did once chaunt a little, for the expression of the feelings of his own bosom, and with no presumptuous idea of entertaining his friends, that he is asked to sing. Not to be behindhand in the sociality of the evening, he complies and gives them ‘Believe Me, if All Those Endearing Young Charms.’ This ballad, he informs Mrs. Bagnet, he considers to have been his most powerful ally in moving the heart of Mrs. Bucket when a maiden, and inducing her to approach the altar—Mr. Bucket’s own words are ‘to come up to the scratch.’
对于这个小圈子来说，没有什么比这对年轻的伍尔维奇的召唤更容易接受的了，他立即拿起横笛，演奏了激动人心的旋律，在演奏过程中，巴克特先生非常活跃，击败了时间，从不因负担而变得尖锐， “英国 Gra-a-anadeers！”简而言之，他表现出了如此多的音乐品味，以至于巴格尼特先生实际上从嘴边拿走了烟斗，以表达他对自己是一名歌手的信念。巴克特先生如此谦虚地接受了和谐的弹劾，承认他曾经唱过一点儿歌，为了表达自己内心的感受，并没有自以为是的取悦朋友的想法，所以他被要求唱歌。为了不在晚上的社交活动中落后，他答应了，并给了他们“相信我，如果所有那些可爱的年轻魅力。”他告诉巴格内特夫人，这首民谣是他打动人心的最有力盟友。巴克特夫人还是少女时，引诱她走近祭坛——巴克特先生。巴克特自己的话是“从头开始”。

This sparkling stranger is such a new and agreeable feature in the evening that Mr. George, who testified no great emotions of pleasure on his entrance, begins, in spite of himself, to be rather proud of him. He is so friendly, is a man of so many resources, and so easy to get on with, that it is something to have made him known there. Mr. Bagnet becomes, after another pipe, so sensible of the value of his acquaintance that he solicits the honour of his company on the old girl’s next birthday. If anything can more closely cement and consolidate the esteem which Mr. Bucket has formed for the family, it is the discovery of the nature of the occasion. He drinks to Mrs. Bagnet with a warmth approaching to rapture, engages himself for that day twelvemonth more than thankfully, makes a memorandum of the day in a large black pocketbook with a girdle to it, and breathes a hope that Mrs. Bucket and Mrs. Bagnet may before then become, in a manner, sisters. As he says himself, what is public life without private ties? He is in his humble way a public man, but it is not in that sphere that he finds happiness. No, it must be sought within the confines of domestic bliss.
这个闪闪发光的陌生人在晚上是一个新的、令人愉快的特征，乔治先生在他进来时并没有表现出很大的快乐情绪，但他开始不由自主地为他感到自豪。他非常友善，拥有丰富的资源，而且很容易相处，所以让他在那里出名是一件很有意义的事情。又吹了一支烟斗后，巴格内特先生变得非常清楚他所认识的人的价值，以至于他在老女孩的下一个生日那天请求他的陪伴。如果说有什么事情能够更紧密地巩固和巩固巴克特先生对这个家庭的尊重，那就是对这一场合本质的发现。他怀着一种近乎欣喜若狂的热情向巴格尼特太太喝酒，庆幸的是，他在这一天订下了十二个月的时间，在一个系着腰带的黑色大皮夹里记下了这一天的备忘录，并希望巴克特太太和在此之前，巴格尼特可能在某种程度上成为姐妹。正如他自己所说，没有私人关系的公共生活是什么？他以谦卑的方式成为一名公众人物，但他并不是在这个领域找到幸福。不，它必须在家庭幸福的范围内寻求。

It is natural, under these circumstances, that he, in his turn, should remember the friend to whom he is indebted for so promising an acquaintance. And he does. He keeps very close to him. Whatever the subject of the conversation, he keeps a tender eye upon him. He waits to walk home with him. He is interested in his very boots and observes even them attentively as Mr. George sits smoking cross-legged in the chimney-corner.
在这种情况下，很自然地，他也应该记住这位朋友，他因这位朋友而结识了他。他确实做到了。他离他很近。无论谈话的主题是什么，他都会温柔地注视着他。他等着和他一起走回家。他对自己的靴子很感兴趣，当乔治先生盘腿坐在烟囱角抽烟时，他甚至仔细观察它们。

At length Mr. George rises to depart. At the same moment Mr. Bucket, with the secret sympathy of friendship, also rises. He dotes upon the children to the last and remembers the commission he has undertaken for an absent friend.
最后乔治先生起身准备离开。与此同时，巴克特先生也站了起来，怀着友谊的秘密同情。他一直溺爱孩子们，并记得他为一位缺席的朋友所承担的任务。

‘Respecting that second-hand wiolinceller, governor—could you recommend me such a thing?’
“尊敬的二手小提琴演奏家，州长——您能给我推荐这样的东西吗？”

‘Scores,’ says Mr. Bagnet.
“得分，”巴格内特先生说。

‘I am obliged to you,’ returns Mr. Bucket, squeezing his hand. ‘You’re a friend in need. A good tone, mind you! My friend is a regular dab at it. Ecod, he saws away at Mozart and Handel and the rest of the big-wigs like a thorough workman. And you needn’t,’ says Mr. Bucket in a considerate and private voice, ‘you needn’t commit yourself to too low a figure, governor. I don’t want to pay too large a price for my friend, but I want you to have your proper percentage and be remunerated for your loss of time. That is but fair. Every man must live, and ought to it.’
“我很感激你，”巴克特先生回答道，握紧了他的手。 ‘你是一位有需要的朋友。语气很好，注意！我的朋友经常接触它。艾科德，他像一个彻底的工人一样锯断莫扎特和亨德尔以及其他大人物。而且你不需要，”巴克特先生用一种体贴而私密的声音说道，“你不需要把自己承诺得太低，州长。我不想为我的朋友付出太大的代价，但我希望你有适当的比例，并为你损失的时间得到补偿。那是公平的。每个人都必须生活，而且应该生活。

Mr. Bagnet shakes his head at the old girl to the effect that they have found a jewel of price.
巴格内特先生对老姑娘摇摇头，大意是说他们找到了一颗价值连城的宝石。

‘Suppose I was to give you a look in, say, at half arter ten tomorrow morning. Perhaps you could name the figures of a few wiolincellers of a good tone?’ says Mr. Bucket.
“假设我明天早上十点半去拜访你。也许你能说出几个音色优美的小提琴手的名字？”巴克特先生说。

Nothing easier. Mr. and Mrs. Bagnet both engage to have the requisite information ready and even hint to each other at the practicability of having a small stock collected there for approval.
没有什么比这更容易的了。巴格尼特先生和夫人都致力于准备好必要的信息，甚至互相暗示在那里收集少量库存以供批准的可行性。

‘Thank you,’ says Mr. Bucket, ‘thank you. Good night, ma’am. Good night, governor. Good night, darlings. I am much obliged to you for one of the pleasantest evenings I ever spent in my life.’
“谢谢你，”巴克特先生说，“谢谢。”晚安，女士。晚安，州长。晚安，亲爱的。我非常感谢你们让我度过了一生中最愉快的夜晚之一。

They, on the contrary, are much obliged to him for the pleasure he has given them in his company; and so they part with many expressions of goodwill on both sides. ‘Now George, old boy,’ says Mr. Bucket, taking his arm at the shop-door, ‘come along!’ As they go down the little street and the Bagnets pause for a minute looking after them, Mrs. Bagnet remarks to the worthy Lignum that Mr. Bucket ‘almost clings to George like, and seems to be really fond of him.’
相反，他们非常感谢他在他的陪伴下给他们带来的快乐。因此，他们在分手时双方都表达了许多善意。 “现在，乔治，老伙计，”巴克特先生挽着商店门口的手臂说道，“走吧！”当他们沿着小街走去时，巴格尼特一家停下来照顾他们，巴格尼特太太对他们说道巴克特先生“几乎像乔治一样紧紧地贴着乔治，而且似乎真的很喜欢他”。

The neighbouring streets being narrow and ill-paved, it is a little inconvenient to walk there two abreast and arm in arm. Mr. George therefore soon proposes to walk singly. But Mr. Bucket, who cannot make up his mind to relinquish his friendly hold, replies, ‘Wait half a minute, George. I should wish to speak to you first.’ Immediately afterwards, he twists him into a public-house and into a parlour, where he confronts him and claps his own back against the door.
附近的街道狭窄且路面不好，两人并肩挽着手行走有些不方便。因此，乔治先生很快就提出独自行走。但是巴克特先生无法下定决心放弃他的友好支持，他回答说：“等半分钟，乔治。”我想先和你谈谈。”紧接着，他把他带进了一家酒馆和一间客厅，在那里他面对着他，用自己的背拍着门。

‘Now, George,’ says Mr. Bucket, ‘duty is duty, and friendship is friendship. I never want the two to clash if I can help it. I have endeavoured to make things pleasant to-night, and I put it to you whether I have done it or not. You must consider yourself in custody, George.’
“现在，乔治，”巴克特先生说，“责任就是责任，友谊就是友谊。”如果可以的话，我永远不想让两者发生冲突。我已经尽力让今晚的事情变得愉快，无论我是否做到了，我都会告诉你。你必须认为自己被拘留了，乔治。

‘Custody? What for?’ returns the trooper, thunderstruck.
'保管？干什么？”士兵惊愕地回答道。

‘Now, George,’ says Mr. Bucket, urging a sensible view of the case upon him with his fat forefinger, ‘duty, as you know very well, is one thing, and conversation is another. It’s my duty to inform you that any observations you may make will be liable to be used against you. Therefore, George, be careful what you say. You don’t happen to have heard of a murder?’
“现在，乔治，”巴克特先生一边说，一边用肥大的食指敦促他对这个案子有一个明智的看法，“正如你所知道的那样，责任是一回事，而谈话又是另一回事。我有责任通知您，您可能提出的任何意见都可能被用来对付您。因此，乔治，要小心你说的话。你没听说过谋杀案吗？

‘Murder!’
'谋杀！'

‘Now, George,’ says Mr. Bucket, keeping his forefinger in an impressive state of action, ‘bear in mind what I’ve said to you. I ask you nothing. You’ve been in low spirits this afternoon. I say, you don’t happen to have heard of a murder?’
“现在，乔治，”巴克特先生说，他的食指保持着令人印象深刻的动作状态，“记住我对你说的话。我什么也不问你。今天下午你情绪低落。我说，你没听说过谋杀案吗？

‘No. Where has there been a murder?’
'不。哪里发生了谋杀案？

‘Now, George,’ says Mr. Bucket, ‘don’t you go and commit yourself. I’m a-going to tell you what I want you for. There has been a murder in Lincoln’s Inn Fields—gentleman of the name of Tulkinghorn. He was shot last night. I want you for that.’
“现在，乔治，”巴克特先生说，“你不要去做出承诺。”我要告诉你我要你做什么。林肯客栈菲尔德发生了一起谋杀案，这位绅士的名字叫塔尔金霍恩。他昨晚被枪杀了。我想要你这么做。

The trooper sinks upon a seat behind him, and great drops start out upon his forehead, and a deadly pallor overspreads his face.
士兵坐到了他身后的座位上，他的额头上开始滴下大滴，脸上布满了死一般的苍白。

‘Bucket! It’s not possible that Mr. Tulkinghorn has been killed and that you suspect ME?’
'桶！塔尔金霍恩先生不可能被杀了，而你又怀疑我吗？

‘George,’ returns Mr. Bucket, keeping his forefinger going, ‘it is certainly possible, because it’s the case. This deed was done last night at ten o’clock. Now, you know where you were last night at ten o’clock, and you’ll be able to prove it, no doubt.’
“乔治，”巴克特先生回答道，食指一直在动，“这当然有可能，因为情况就是这样。”这件事是昨晚十点完成的。现在，你知道昨晚十点你在哪里，毫无疑问，你将能够证明这一点。”

‘Last night! Last night?’ repeats the trooper thoughtfully. Then it flashes upon him. ‘Why, great heaven, I was there last night!’
'昨夜！昨晚？”士兵若有所思地重复道。然后它在他身上闪烁。 “天啊，我昨晚就在那儿！”

‘So I have understood, George,’ returns Mr. Bucket with great deliberation. ‘So I have understood. Likewise you’ve been very often there. You’ve been seen hanging about the place, and you’ve been heard more than once in a wrangle with him, and it’s possible —I don’t say it’s certainly so, mind you, but it’s possible—that he may have been heard to call you a threatening, murdering, dangerous fellow.’
“所以我明白了，乔治。”巴克特先生深思熟虑地回答道。 ‘所以我明白了。同样，你也经常去那里。有人看到你在这个地方闲逛，而且不止一次听到你与他发生争执，有可能——我不说肯定是这样，请注意，但有可能——他可能是听说你是一个有威胁的、杀人的、危险的家伙。”

The trooper gasps as if he would admit it all if he could speak.
士兵喘着粗气，仿佛只要他能说话，他就会承认这一切。

‘Now, George,’ continues Mr. Bucket, putting his hat upon the table with an air of business rather in the upholstery way than otherwise, ‘my wish is, as it has been all the evening, to make things pleasant. I tell you plainly there’s a reward out, of a hundred guineas, offered by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. You and me have always been pleasant together; but I have got a duty to discharge; and if that hundred guineas is to be made, it may as well be made by me as any other man. On all of which accounts, I should hope it was clear to you that I must have you, and that I’m damned if I don’t have you. Am I to call in any assistance, or is the trick done?’
“现在，乔治，”巴克特先生继续说道，他把帽子放在桌子上，一副公事公办的样子，而不是像其他装饰那样，“我的愿望是，就像整个晚上一样，让事情变得愉快。”我明确地告诉你，莱斯特·戴德洛克男爵爵士悬赏一百基尼。你和我在一起一直很愉快；但我有义务去履行；如果要赚那一百几尼，我和其他人都可以赚。出于所有这些考虑，我希望你清楚，我必须拥有你，如果我没有你，我就该死。我需要寻求帮助吗？还是戏已经完成了？

Mr. George has recovered himself and stands up like a soldier. ‘Come,’ he says; ‘I am ready.’
乔治先生恢复了平静，像一名士兵一样站了起来。 “来吧，”他说； '我已经准备好了。'

‘George,’ continues Mr. Bucket, ‘wait a bit!’ With his upholsterer manner, as if the trooper were a window to be fitted up, he takes from his pocket a pair of handcuffs. ‘This is a serious charge, George, and such is my duty.’
“乔治，”巴克特先生继续说道，“等一下！”他以室内装潢师的态度，仿佛士兵是一扇需要安装的窗户，他从口袋里掏出一副手铐。 “这是一项严重的指控，乔治，这是我的职责。”

The trooper flushes angrily and hesitates a moment, but holds out his two hands, clasped together, and says, ‘There! Put them on!’
士兵气得满脸通红，犹豫了一会儿，但还是伸出两只手，握在一起，说道：“好了！穿上它们！'

Mr. Bucket adjusts them in a moment. ‘How do you find them? Are they comfortable? If not, say so, for I wish to make things as pleasant as is consistent with my duty, and I’ve got another pair in my pocket.’ This remark he offers like a most respectable tradesman anxious to execute an order neatly and to the perfect satisfaction of his customer. ‘They’ll do as they are? Very well! Now, you see, George’—he takes a cloak from a corner and begins adjusting it about the trooper’s neck—‘I was mindful of your feelings when I come out, and brought this on purpose. There! Who’s the wiser?’
巴克特先生立即调整了它们。 '你是怎么找到他们的？他们舒服吗？如果没有，请直说，因为我希望让事情尽可能愉快地履行我的职责，而且我口袋里还有另一双。”他说这句话时就像一位最受人尊敬的商人，急于整齐地执行订单并客户的完美满意。 ‘他们会照他们现在的样子做吗？很好！现在，你看，乔治”——他从角落里拿出一件斗篷，开始在士兵的脖子上调整它——“我出来的时候考虑到了你的感受，故意带了这个。那里！谁更聪明？

‘Only I,’ returns the trooper, ‘but as I know it, do me one more good turn and pull my hat over my eyes.’
“只有我，”士兵回答道，“但据我所知，再帮我转一圈，把帽子拉到我的眼睛上。”

‘Really, though! Do you mean it? Ain’t it a pity? It looks so.’
‘不过，真的！你是这个意思吗？是不是很可惜呢？看起来是这样。

‘I can’t look chance men in the face with these things on,’ Mr. George hurriedly replies. ‘Do, for God’s sake, pull my hat forward.’
“戴着这些东西我不敢直视偶然的人的脸，”乔治先生急忙回答道。 “看在上帝的份上，请把我的帽子拉过来。”

So strongly entreated, Mr. Bucket complies, puts his own hat on, and conducts his prize into the streets, the trooper marching on as steadily as usual, though with his head less erect, and Mr. Bucket steering him with his elbow over the crossings and up the turnings.
在如此强烈的恳求下，巴克特先生答应了，戴上自己的帽子，把他的战利品带到街上，士兵像往常一样稳步前进，尽管他的头不那么直立了，巴克特先生用肘部支撑着他。交叉路口和转弯处。

CHAPTER L
第L章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

It happened that when I came home from Deal I found a note from Caddy Jellyby (as we always continued to call her), informing me that her health, which had been for some time very delicate, was worse and that she would be more glad than she could tell me if I would go to see her. It was a note of a few lines, written from the couch on which she lay and enclosed to me in another from her husband, in which he seconded her entreaty with much solicitude. Caddy was now the mother, and I the godmother, of such a poor little baby—such a tiny old-faced mite, with a countenance that seemed to be scarcely anything but cap-border, and a little lean, long-fingered hand, always clenched under its chin. It would lie in this attitude all day, with its bright specks of eyes open, wondering (as I used to imagine) how it came to be so small and weak. Whenever it was moved it cried, but at all other times it was so patient that the sole desire of its life appeared to be to lie quiet and think. It had curious little dark veins in its face and curious little dark marks under its eyes like faint remembrances of poor Caddy’s inky days, and altogether, to those who were not used to it, it was quite a piteous little sight.
碰巧，当我从迪尔回家时，我发现了球童杰利比（我们一直这样称呼她）的一张纸条，告诉我她的健康状况已经很脆弱，有一段时间了，现在更糟了，她会更高兴她无法告诉我是否要去看她。这是她躺在沙发上写下的几行字条，并附在她丈夫的另一封信中，他在信中深切地附和了她的恳求。凯迪现在是母亲，而我是教母，生下了这么一个可怜的小婴儿——一个小老脸，长着一张看起来除了帽子边缘之外什么都没有的脸，还有一只瘦小的、手指长的手，总是咬紧下巴。它会整天以这种态度躺着，睁着明亮的眼睛，想知道（正如我以前想象的那样）它为什么变得如此小和虚弱。每当它被感动时，它就会哭泣，但在其他时候，它都那么耐心，以至于它一生唯一的愿望似乎就是安静地躺着思考。它的脸上有奇怪的黑色小血管，眼睛下面有奇怪的黑色小痕迹，就像可怜的凯迪的黑暗岁月的模糊记忆，总而言之，对于那些不习惯它的人来说，这是一个相当可怜的小景象。

But it was enough for Caddy that SHE was used to it. The projects with which she beguiled her illness, for little Esther’s education, and little Esther’s marriage, and even for her own old age as the grandmother of little Esther’s little Esthers, was so prettily expressive of devotion to this pride of her life that I should be tempted to recall some of them but for the timely remembrance that I am getting on irregularly as it is.
但对凯蒂来说，她已经习惯了，这就足够了。她用自己的疾病来欺骗自己，为了小埃丝特的教育，为了小埃丝特的婚姻，甚至为了她自己作为小埃丝特的小埃丝特的祖母的晚年，这些计划如此漂亮地表达了她对她生命中这一骄傲的奉献，以至于我应该我很想回忆起其中的一些，但为了及时想起我现在的生活却很不规律。

To return to the letter. Caddy had a superstition about me which had been strengthening in her mind ever since that night long ago when she had lain asleep with her head in my lap. She almost—I think I must say quite—believed that I did her good whenever I was near her. Now although this was such a fancy of the affectionate girl’s that I am almost ashamed to mention it, still it might have all the force of a fact when she was really ill. Therefore I set off to Caddy, with my guardian’s consent, post-haste; and she and Prince made so much of me that there never was anything like it.
回到那封信。凯迪对我有一种迷信，自从很久以前的那天晚上她把头枕在我的腿上睡着以来，这种迷信就一直在她的脑海里增强。她几乎——我想我必须说——相信只要我靠近她，我就对她有好处。虽然这是这位深情女孩的幻想，以至于我几乎羞于提及，但当她真的病了时，这仍然可能具有事实的全部力量。因此，在征得监护人同意后，我匆忙出发前往卡迪。她和普林斯对我的评价是前所未有的。

Next day I went again to sit with her, and next day I went again. It was a very easy journey, for I had only to rise a little earlier in the morning, and keep my accounts, and attend to housekeeping matters before leaving home.
第二天我又去和她坐在一起，第二天我又去了。这是一次非常轻松的旅程，因为我只需要早上早一点起床，记账，处理家务，然后就离开家。

But when I had made these three visits, my guardian said to me, on my return at night, ‘Now, little woman, little woman, this will never do. Constant dropping will wear away a stone, and constant coaching will wear out a Dame Durden. We will go to London for a while and take possession of our old lodgings.’
但是，当我完成这三次访问后，我的监护人在我晚上回来时对我说：“现在，小女人，小女人，这是永远不行的。”不断的跌落会磨损石头，不断的训练会磨损杜登夫人。我们将去伦敦一段时间，并拥有我们的旧住所。

‘Not for me, dear guardian,’ said I, ‘for I never feel tired,’ which was strictly true. I was only too happy to be in such request.
“不适合我，亲爱的监护人，”我说，“因为我从不感到疲倦，”这是千真万确的。我很高兴能收到这样的要求。

‘For me then,’ returned my guardian, ‘or for Ada, or for both of us. It is somebody’s birthday to-morrow, I think.’
“那么对于我来说，”我的监护人回答道，“或者对于艾达，或者对于我们俩。我想明天是某人的生日。”

‘Truly I think it is,’ said I, kissing my darling, who would be twenty-one to-morrow.
“我真的这么认为，”我一边说，一边亲吻我的宝贝，她明天就满二十一岁了。

‘Well,’ observed my guardian, half pleasantly, half seriously, ‘that’s a great occasion and will give my fair cousin some necessary business to transact in assertion of her independence, and will make London a more convenient place for all of us. So to London we will go. That being settled, there is another thing—how have you left Caddy?’
“好吧，”我的监护人半愉快半认真地说，“这是一个伟大的机会，将为我美丽的表弟提供一些必要的事务来处理她的独立性，并使伦敦成为我们所有人更方便的地方。所以我们要去伦敦。解决了之后，还有一件事——你是怎么离开凯迪的？

‘Very unwell, guardian. I fear it will be some time before she regains her health and strength.’
“非常不舒服，监护人。我担心她需要一段时间才能恢复健康和体力。

‘What do you call some time, now?’ asked my guardian thoughtfully.
“现在你怎么称呼？”我的监护人若有所思地问。

‘Some weeks, I am afraid.’
“恐怕要几个星期了。”

‘Ah!’ He began to walk about the room with his hands in his pockets, showing that he had been thinking as much. ‘Now, what do you say about her doctor? Is he a good doctor, my love?’
“啊！”他开始在房间里走来走去，双手插在口袋里，表明他也这么想。 “现在，你对她的医生有什么看法？他是个好医生吗，亲爱的？

I felt obliged to confess that I knew nothing to the contrary but that Prince and I had agreed only that evening that we would like his opinion to be confirmed by some one.
我不得不承认，我对此一无所知，但普林斯和我直到那天晚上才同意我们希望他的观点得到某人的证实。

‘Well, you know,’ returned my guardian quickly, ‘there’s Woodcourt.’
“嗯，你知道，”我的监护人很快回答道，“那就是伍德考特。”

I had not meant that, and was rather taken by surprise. For a moment all that I had had in my mind in connexion with Mr. Woodcourt seemed to come back and confuse me.
我本来不是这个意思，我感到很惊讶。有一瞬间，我脑海中所有与伍德考特先生有关的事情似乎又回来了，让我感到困惑。

‘You don’t object to him, little woman?’
“你不反对他吗，小女人？”

‘Object to him, guardian? Oh no!’
“反对他吗，守护者？不好了！'

‘And you don’t think the patient would object to him?’
“你认为病人不会反对他吗？”

So far from that, I had no doubt of her being prepared to have a great reliance on him and to like him very much. I said that he was no stranger to her personally, for she had seen him often in his kind attendance on Miss Flite.
到目前为止，我毫不怀疑她已经准备好非常依赖他并且非常喜欢他。我说他对她个人来说并不陌生，因为她经常在弗利特小姐的盛情款待中看到他。

‘Very good,’ said my guardian. ‘He has been here to-day, my dear, and I will see him about it to-morrow.’
“很好，”我的监护人说。 “亲爱的，他今天来过这里，明天我会去看他。”

I felt in this short conversation—though I did not know how, for she was quiet, and we interchanged no look—that my dear girl well remembered how merrily she had clasped me round the waist when no other hands than Caddy’s had brought me the little parting token. This caused me to feel that I ought to tell her, and Caddy too, that I was going to be the mistress of Bleak House and that if I avoided that disclosure any longer I might become less worthy in my own eyes of its master’s love. Therefore, when we went upstairs and had waited listening until the clock struck twelve in order that only I might be the first to wish my darling all good wishes on her birthday and to take her to my heart, I set before her, just as I had set before myself, the goodness and honour of her cousin John and the happy life that was in store for for me. If ever my darling were fonder of me at one time than another in all our intercourse, she was surely fondest of me that night. And I was so rejoiced to know it and so comforted by the sense of having done right in casting this last idle reservation away that I was ten times happier than I had been before. I had scarcely thought it a reservation a few hours ago, but now that it was gone I felt as if I understood its nature better.
在这次简短的谈话中，我感觉到——虽然我不知道为什么，因为她很安静，我们也没有交换眼神——我亲爱的女孩清楚地记得，当除了凯迪的手没有其他人给我带来礼物时，她是多么快乐地搂着我的腰。小小的离别信物。这让我觉得我应该告诉她，还有凯迪，我将成为荒凉山庄的女主人，如果我再避免透露这一点，在我自己的眼中，我可能会变得不那么值得主人的爱。因此，当我们上楼，一直等到十二点钟敲响时，只有我才能第一个向我亲爱的生日致以美好的祝愿，并将她放在我的心里，我把她摆在了她面前，就像我她的表弟约翰的善良和荣誉，以及为我准备的幸福生活，都摆在我面前。如果说在我们所有的交往中，我的爱人有一次比另一次更喜欢我的话，那么那天晚上她肯定是最喜欢我的。知道这一点我感到非常高兴，并且因为抛弃了这最后一个闲置的保留而感到非常安慰，我比以前幸福十倍。几个小时前，我几乎不认为这是一个保留，但现在它消失了，我感觉好像我更好地理解了它的本质。

Next day we went to London. We found our old lodging vacant, and in half an hour were quietly established there, as if we had never gone away. Mr. Woodcourt dined with us to celebrate my darling’s birthday, and we were as pleasant as we could be with the great blank among us that Richard’s absence naturally made on such an occasion. After that day I was for some weeks—eight or nine as I remember—very much with Caddy, and thus it fell out that I saw less of Ada at this time than any other since we had first come together, except the time of my own illness. She often came to Caddy’s, but our function there was to amuse and cheer her, and we did not talk in our usual confidential manner. Whenever I went home at night we were together, but Caddy’s rest was broken by pain, and I often remained to nurse her.
第二天我们就去了伦敦。我们发现原来的住所空了，半个小时后就安静地安顿在那里，好像我们从未离开过一样。伍德考特先生和我们一起吃饭，庆祝我亲爱的生日，我们尽其所能地愉快地度过了，因为理查德的缺席在这样的场合自然会造成我们之间的巨大空白。那天之后，我有几个星期——我记得有八九个星期——非常和凯蒂在一起，因此结果是，自从我们第一次聚在一起以来，除了我的那段时间之外，我在这个时候见到艾达的次数比其他任何时候都少。自己的病。她经常来卡迪家，但我们在那里的作用是逗她开心，让她高兴，我们并没有像往常那样保密地交谈。每当我晚上回家时，我们都会在一起，但凯蒂的休息因疼痛而中断，我常常留下来护理她。

With her husband and her poor little mite of a baby to love and their home to strive for, what a good creature Caddy was! So selfdenying, so uncomplaining, so anxious to get well on their account, so afraid of giving trouble, and so thoughtful of the unassisted labours of her husband and the comforts of old Mr. Turveydrop; I had never known the best of her until now. And it seemed so curious that her pale face and helpless figure should be lying there day after day where dancing was the business of life, where the kit and the apprentices began early every morning in the ballroom, and where the untidy little boy waltzed by himself in the kitchen all the afternoon.
有她的丈夫和她可怜的小婴儿要爱，有他们的家要奋斗，凯蒂是一个多么好的人啊！如此克己，如此无怨无悔，如此渴望为自己康复，如此害怕惹麻烦，如此体贴她丈夫的独立劳动和老特维德罗普先生的舒适；直到现在我才了解她最好的一面。奇怪的是，她苍白的脸庞和无助的身影竟然日复一日地躺在那儿，在那里跳舞是生活的重担，套件和学徒们每天一大早就在舞厅里开始跳舞，邋遢的小男孩独自跳着华尔兹。整个下午都在厨房里。

At Caddy’s request I took the supreme direction of her apartment, trimmed it up, and pushed her, couch and all, into a lighter and more airy and more cheerful corner than she had yet occupied; then, every day, when we were in our neatest array, I used to lay my small small namesake in her arms and sit down to chat or work or read to her. It was at one of the first of these quiet times that I told Caddy about Bleak House.
在凯迪的要求下，我掌握了她公寓的最高方向，将其整理了一下，然后把她连同沙发和所有东西推到了一个比她以前住过的更明亮、更通风、更令人愉快的角落里；她的房间里的一切都比她以前住过的要好。然后，每天，当我们排成最整齐的队形时，我都会把同名的小孩子放在她怀里，坐下来聊天、工作或读书给她听。正是在第一次安静的时刻，我向凯迪讲述了《荒凉山庄》的事。

We had other visitors besides Ada. First of all we had Prince, who in his hurried intervals of teaching used to come softly in and sit softly down, with a face of loving anxiety for Caddy and the very little child. Whatever Caddy’s condition really was, she never failed to declare to Prince that she was all but well—which I, heaven forgive me, never failed to confirm. This would put Prince in such good spirits that he would sometimes take the kit from his pocket and play a chord or two to astonish the baby, which I never knew it to do in the least degree, for my tiny namesake never noticed it at all.
除了艾达之外，我们还有其他访客。首先，我们有普林斯，他在匆忙的教学间隙常常轻轻地进来并轻轻地坐下，脸上带着对凯迪和这个小孩子的慈爱和焦虑。无论凯迪的真实情况如何，她总是向普林斯宣布她一切都很好——我，老天原谅我，从来没有不证实过这一点。这会让普林斯的心情变得非常好，有时他会从口袋里拿出工具包，弹奏一两个和弦，让婴儿大吃一惊，而我从来没有意识到这一点，因为我的同名小家伙根本没有注意到这一点。 。

Then there was Mrs. Jellyby. She would come occasionally, with her usual distraught manner, and sit calmly looking miles beyond her grandchild as if her attention were absorbed by a young Borrioboolan on its native shores. As bright-eyed as ever, as serene, and as untidy, she would say, ‘Well, Caddy, child, and how do you do to-day?’ And then would sit amiably smiling and taking no notice of the reply or would sweetly glide off into a calculation of the number of letters she had lately received and answered or of the coffee-bearing power of Borrioboola-Gha. This she would always do with a serene contempt for our limited sphere of action, not to be disguised.
然后是杰利比夫人。她偶尔会来，带着她一贯的心烦意乱的态度，平静地坐着，看着远在她孙子几英里之外的地方，仿佛她的注意力被家乡海岸上的年轻博里奥布尔人吸引住了。她一如既往地眼睛明亮，平静而邋遢，她会说：“好吧，凯迪，孩子，你今天过得怎么样？”然后会亲切地微笑着坐着，不理睬他的回答，或者她甜蜜地开始计算她最近收到和回复的信件数量，或者 Borrioboola-Gha 的咖啡承载能力。她这样做时总是带着对我们有限的行动范围的平静的蔑视，毫不掩饰。

Then there was old Mr. Turveydrop, who was from morning to night and from night to morning the subject of innumerable precautions. If the baby cried, it was nearly stifled lest the noise should make him uncomfortable. If the fire wanted stirring in the night, it was surreptitiously done lest his rest should be broken. If Caddy required any little comfort that the house contained, she first carefully discussed whether he was likely to require it too. In return for this consideration he would come into the room once a day, all but blessing it—showing a condescension, and a patronage, and a grace of manner in dispensing the light of his highshouldered presence from which I might have supposed him (if I had not known better) to have been the benefactor of Caddy’s life.
还有老特维德罗普先生，他从早到晚、从晚到早都是无数预防措施的对象。如果婴儿哭了，他几乎要窒息，以免噪音让他不舒服。如果夜里想生火，就会偷偷地进行，以免打扰他的休息。如果凯迪需要房子里的任何一点安慰，她首先会仔细讨论他是否也可能需要它。作为对这种考虑的回报，他每天都会走进这个房间一次，几乎是在祝福它——表现出一种居高临下的态度，一种恩惠，以及一种优雅的举止，散发出他高耸的肩膀的光芒，我可能会从他身上看到他（如果我当时并不知道自己是凯迪一生的恩人。

‘My Caroline,’ he would say, making the nearest approach that he could to bending over her. ‘Tell me that you are better to-day.’
“我的卡罗琳，”他会说，尽可能靠近她，弯下腰。 “告诉我你今天好多了。”

‘Oh, much better, thank you, Mr. Turveydrop,’ Caddy would reply.
“噢，好多了，谢谢你，特维德罗普先生。”凯迪回答道。

‘Delighted! Enchanted! And our dear Miss Summerson. She is not qulte prostrated by fatigue?’ Here he would crease up his eyelids and kiss his fingers to me, though I am happy to say he had ceased to be particular in his attentions since I had been so altered.
'高兴极了！着迷了！还有我们亲爱的萨默森小姐。她不会因为疲劳而精疲力尽吧？”说到这里，他会皱起眼睑，亲吻我的手指，尽管我很高兴地说，自从我发生了如此大的变化后，他不再特别关注我了。

‘Not at all,’ I would assure him.
“一点也不，”我向他保证。

‘Charming! We must take care of our dear Caroline, Miss Summerson. We must spare nothing that will restore her. We must nourish her. My dear Caroline’—he would turn to his daughter-in-law with infinite generosity and protection—‘want for nothing, my love. Frame a wish and gratify it, my daughter. Everything this house contains, everything my room contains, is at your service, my dear. Do not,’ he would sometimes add in a burst of deportment, ‘even allow my simple requirements to be considered if they should at any time interfere with your own, my Caroline. Your necessities are greater than mine.’
'迷人！我们必须照顾我们亲爱的卡罗琳，萨默森小姐。我们必须不遗余力地挽救她。我们必须滋养她。我亲爱的卡罗琳”——他会以无限的慷慨和保护转向他的儿媳妇——“什么都不想要，我的爱人。许下一个愿望并实现它，我的女儿。这房子里的一切，我房间里的一切，都为您服务，亲爱的。 ”他有时会在举止上突然补充道，“即使我的简单要求会在任何时候干扰到你自己的要求，我的卡罗琳，也不要考虑这些要求。你的需要比我的需要更多。

He had established such a long prescriptive right to this deportment (his son’s inheritance from his mother) that I several times knew both Caddy and her husband to be melted to tears by these affectionate self-sacrifices.
他对这种行为（他儿子从母亲那里继承的遗产）建立了如此长的规定性权利，以至于我好几次都知道凯蒂和她的丈夫都被这些深情的自我牺牲感动得热泪盈眶。

‘Nay, my dears,’ he would remonstrate; and when I saw Caddy’s thin arm about his fat neck as he said it, I would be melted too, though not by the same process. ‘Nay, nay! I have promised never to leave ye. Be dutiful and affectionate towards me, and I ask no other return. Now, bless ye! I am going to the Park.’
“不，亲爱的，”他会抗议道。当我看到凯迪说这句话时，他瘦弱的手臂搂着他肥胖的脖子，我也会被融化，尽管不是通过同样的过程。 ‘不，不！我已经答应永远不会离开你们。对我尽职尽责、充满感情，我不求其他回报。现在，祝福你们！我要去公园。'

He would take the air there presently and get an appetite for his hotel dinner. I hope I do old Mr. Turveydrop no wrong, but I never saw any better traits in him than these I faithfully record, except that he certainly conceived a liking for Peepy and would take the child out walking with great pomp, always on those occasions sending him home before he went to dinner himself, and occasionally with a halfpenny in his pocket. But even this disinterestedness was attended with no inconsiderable cost, to my knowledge, for before Peepy was sufficiently decorated to walk hand in hand with the professor of deportment, he had to be newly dressed, at the expense of Caddy and her husband, from top to toe.
他很快就会去那里呼吸空气，并有胃口地享用酒店的晚餐。我希望我没有做错特维德罗普老先生，但我在他身上从未见过比我忠实记录的这些更好的品质，除了他肯定喜欢皮皮，并且总是在那些场合带着孩子出去散步，总是很盛况在他自己去吃晚饭之前送他回家，有时口袋里还揣着半个便士。但据我所知，即使是这种无私的态度也付出了不小的代价，因为在皮比获得足够的装饰以与举止教授携手同行之前，他必须从上到下以凯迪和她丈夫为代价，换上新衣服。到脚趾。

Last of our visitors, there was Mr. Jellyby. Really when he used to come in of an evening, and ask Caddy in his meek voice how she was, and then sit down with his head against the wall, and make no attempt to say anything more, I liked him very much. If he found me bustling about doing any little thing, he sometimes half took his coat off, as if with an intention of helping by a great exertion; but he never got any further. His sole occupation was to sit with his head against the wall, looking hard at the thoughtful baby; and I could not quite divest my mind of a fancy that they understood one another.
最后一位访客是杰利比先生。真的，当他晚上进来，用温柔的声音问凯迪怎么样，然后头靠在墙上坐下来，不再试图再说什么时，我非常喜欢他。如果他发现我忙着做点小事，有时他会把外套脱掉一半，似乎是想尽力帮忙；但他再也没有进一步。他唯一的任务就是头靠墙坐着，凝视着若有所思的婴儿。我无法完全放弃他们彼此理解的幻想。

I have not counted Mr. Woodcourt among our visitors because he was now Caddy’s regular attendant. She soon began to improve under his care, but he was so gentle, so skilful, so unwearying in the pains he took that it is not to be wondered at, I am sure. I saw a good deal of Mr. Woodcourt during this time, though not so much as might be supposed, for knowing Caddy to be safe in his hands, I often slipped home at about the hours when he was expected. We frequently met, notwithstanding. I was quite reconciled to myself now, but I still felt glad to think that he was sorry for me, and he still WAS sorry for me I believed. He helped Mr. Badger in his professional engagements, which were numerous, and had as yet no settled projects for the future.
我没有把伍德考特先生算在我们的访客之列，因为他现在是凯迪的常客。在他的照顾下，她的病情很快开始好转，但他是如此温柔，如此熟练，如此不辞辛劳，我相信这并不奇怪。这段时间我经常见到伍德考特先生，尽管没有想象中那么多，因为我知道球童在他手里很安全，所以我经常在他预计的时间溜回家。尽管如此，我们还是经常见面。我现在对自己很和解，但我仍然很高兴想到他为我感到难过，而且我相信他仍然为我感到难过。他在巴杰尔先生的职业生涯中为他提供了很多帮助，但目前还没有确定的未来计划。

It was when Caddy began to recover that I began to notice a change in my dear girl. I cannot say how it first presented itself to me, because I observed it in many slight particulars which were nothing in themselves and only became something when they were pieced together. But I made it out, by putting them together, that Ada was not so frankly cheerful with me as she used to be. Her tenderness for me was as loving and true as ever; I did not for a moment doubt that; but there was a quiet sorrow about her which she did not confide to me, and in which I traced some hidden regret.
当凯迪开始康复时，我开始注意到我亲爱的女儿发生了变化。我无法说出它最初是如何呈现在我面前的，因为我在许多细微的细节中观察到了它，这些细节本身并无什么，只有当它们拼凑在一起时才成为某种东西。但通过将它们放在一起，我发现艾达对我并不像以前那样坦率地高兴。她对我的温柔一如既往地充满爱意和真诚。我对此毫不怀疑；但她身上有一种平静的悲伤，她没有向我吐露，我在其中找到了一些隐藏的遗憾。

Now, I could not understand this, and I was so anxious for the happiness of my own pet that it caused me some uneasiness and set me thinking often. At length, feeling sure that Ada suppressed this something from me lest it should make me unhappy too, it came into my head that she was a little grieved—for me—by what I had told her about Bleak House.
现在，我无法理解这一点，而且我对自己的宠物的幸福如此着急，这让我感到有些不安，并经常让我思考。最后，我确信艾达对我隐瞒了这件事，以免让我也不高兴，我的脑海里浮现出她对我告诉她《荒凉山庄》的事感到有点悲伤——为我而悲伤。

How I persuaded myself that this was likely, I don’t know. I had no idea that there was any selfish reference in my doing so. I was not grieved for myself: I was quite contented and quite happy. Still, that Ada might be thinking—for me, though I had abandoned all such thoughts—of what once was, but was now all changed, seemed so easy to believe that I believed it.
我不知道我是如何说服自己相信这是可能的。我不知道我这样做有什么自私的成分。我并不为自己悲伤：我很满足，也很快乐。尽管如此，艾达可能正在思考——对我来说，尽管我已经放弃了所有这些想法——曾经是但现在一切都改变了的事情，似乎很容易相信我相信它。

What could I do to reassure my darling (I considered then) and show her that I had no such feelings? Well! I could only be as brisk and busy as possible, and that I had tried to be all along. However, as Caddy’s illness had certainly interfered, more or less, with my home duties—though I had always been there in the morning to make my guardian’s breakfast, and he had a hundred times laughed and said there must be two little women, for his little woman was never missing—I resolved to be doubly diligent and gay. So I went about the house humming all the tunes I knew, and I sat working and working in a desperate manner, and I talked and talked, morning, noon, and night.
我该怎么做才能让我亲爱的（我当时考虑过）放心并向她表明我没有这种感觉？出色地！我只能尽可能地活跃和忙碌，而且我一直在努力做到这一点。然而，凯迪的病确实或多或少地干扰了我的家务——尽管我早上总是在那里为我的监护人做早餐，而他却笑了一百次，说肯定有两个小女人，因为他的小女人从来没有失踪过——我决心加倍勤奋、快乐。于是我在屋里走来走去，哼着所有我熟悉的曲子，绝望地坐着工作，不停地工作，从早上、中午到晚上，我一直在说啊说啊。

And still there was the same shade between me and my darling.
但我和我亲爱的之间仍然存在着同样的阴影。

‘So, Dame Trot,’ observed my guardian, shutting up his book one night when we were all three together, ‘so Woodcourt has restored Caddy Jellyby to the full enjoyment of life again?’
“那么，特洛特夫人，”一天晚上我们三人在一起时，我的监护人合上书，说道，“那么伍德考特已经让球童杰利比再次充分享受生活了？”

‘Yes,’ I said; ‘and to be repaid by such gratitude as hers is to be made rich, guardian.’
“是的，”我说。 “如果得到她这样的感激之情，你就会变得富有，监护人。”

‘I wish it was,’ he returned, ‘with all my heart.’
“我希望如此，”他回答道，“我全心全意地希望如此。”

So did I too, for that matter. I said so.
就此而言，我也是如此。我是这么说的。

‘Aye! We would make him as rich as a Jew if we knew how. Would we not, little woman?’
‘是啊！如果我们知道怎么做的话，我们会让他像犹太人一样富有。我们不会吗，小女人？

I laughed as I worked and replied that I was not sure about that, for it might spoil him, and he might not be so useful, and there might be many who could ill spare him. As Miss Flite, and Caddy herself, and many others.
我一边干活一边笑，回答说我对此并不确定，因为这可能会宠坏他，而且他可能不会那么有用，而且可能有很多人饶不了他。作为弗利特小姐、凯迪本人以及许多其他人。

‘True,’ said my guardian. ‘I had forgotten that. But we would agree to make him rich enough to live, I suppose? Rich enough to work with tolerable peace of mind? Rich enough to have his own happy home and his own household gods—and household goddess, too, perhaps?’
“是的，”我的监护人说。 ‘我已经忘记了。但我想我们会同意让他有足够的钱生活下去吧？足够富有，可以安心地工作吗？足够富有，拥有自己幸福的家和自己的家庭神——也许还有家庭女神？

That was quite another thing, I said. We must all agree in that.
我说，那是另一回事了。我们都必须同意这一点。

‘To be sure,’ said my guardian. ‘All of us. I have a great regard for Woodcourt, a high esteem for him; and I have been sounding him delicately about his plans. It is difficult to offer aid to an independent man with that just kind of pride which he possesses. And yet I would be glad to do it if I might or if I knew how. He seems half inclined for another voyage. But that appears like casting such a man away.’
“当然，”我的监护人说。 ‘我们所有人。我非常尊重伍德考特，非常尊敬他。我一直在小心翼翼地向他询问他的计划。很难向一个具有这种自豪感的独立人提供帮助。然而，如果可以的话或者如果我知道如何去做的话，我会很乐意这样做。他似乎有点想再次航行。但这似乎等于抛弃了这样一个人。”

‘It might open a new world to him,’ said I.
“这可能会为他打开一个新世界，”我说。

‘’So it might, little woman,’ my guardian assented. ‘’I doubt if he expects much of the old world. Do you know I have fancied that he sometimes feels some particular disappointment or misfortune encountered in it. You never heard of anything of that sort?’
“可能是这样，小女人，”我的监护人同意道。 “我怀疑他是否对旧世界抱有太多期望。你知道吗，我猜想他有时会感到某种特别的失望或不幸。你从来没有听说过这样的事情吗？

I shook my head.
我摇摇头。

‘Humph,’ said my guardian. ‘I am mistaken, I dare say.’ As there was a little pause here, which I thought, for my dear girl’s satisfaction, had better be filled up, I hummed an air as I worked which was a favourite with my guardian.
“哼，”我的监护人说。 “我敢说，我错了。”因为这里有一点停顿，我想，为了让我亲爱的女儿满意，最好把它填满，我一边工作一边哼着小调，这是我的监护人最喜欢的。

‘And do you think Mr. Woodcourt will make another voyage?’ I asked him when I had hummed it quietly all through.
“你认为伍德考特先生还会再次航行吗？”当我低声哼着这首歌时，我问他。

‘I don’t quite know what to think, my dear, but I should say it was likely at present that he will give a long trip to another country.’
“我不太知道该怎么想，亲爱的，但我应该说，目前他很可能会去另一个国家进行长途旅行。”

‘I am sure he will take the best wishes of all our hearts with him wherever he goes,’ said I; ‘and though they are not riches, he will never be the poorer for them, guardian, at least.’
“我相信，无论他走到哪里，他都会带着我们所有人衷心的最美好的祝愿，”我说。 “虽然它们不是财富，但至少，监护人，他永远不会因为它们而变得更穷。”

‘Never, little woman,’ he replied.
“从来没有，小女人，”他回答道。

I was sitting in my usual place, which was now beside my guardian’s chair. That had not been my usual place before the letter, but it was now. I looked up to Ada, who was sitting opposite, and I saw, as she looked at me, that her eyes were filled with tears and that tears were falling down her face. I felt that I had only to be placid and merry once for all to undeceive my dear and set her loving heart at rest. I really was so, and I had nothing to do but to be myself.
我坐在原来的位置，现在在我监护人的椅子旁边。在收到这封信之前，那不是我常去的地方，但现在是了。我抬头看向坐在对面的艾达，当她看着我时，我看到她的眼睛里充满了泪水，泪水从她的脸上滑落下来。我觉得我只要表现得平静、快乐一次，就能让我亲爱的人不再受骗，让她那颗慈爱的心得到安息。我确实就是这样，除了做我自己，我别无他法。

So I made my sweet girl lean upon my shoulder—how little thinking what was heavy on her mind!—and I said she was not quite well, and put my arm about her, and took her upstairs. When we were in our own room, and when she might perhaps have told me what I was so unprepared to hear, I gave her no encouragement to confide in me; I never thought she stood in need of it.
于是我让我可爱的女儿靠在我的肩膀上——她心里的重担是多么少啊！——我说她不太舒服，然后用胳膊搂住她，带她上楼。当我们在自己的房间里时，当她也许会告诉我我完全没有准备好听到的事情时，我没有鼓励她向我吐露心声。我从没想过她需要它。

‘Oh, my dear good Esther,’ said Ada, ‘if I could only make up my mind to speak to you and my cousin John when you are together!’
“哦，我亲爱的艾丝特，”艾达说，“要是我能下定决心，当你们和我的表弟约翰在一起的时候，能和你们说话就好了！”

‘Why, my love!’ I remonstrated. ‘Ada, why should you not speak to us!’
“为什么，亲爱的！”我抗议道。 “艾达，你为什么不跟我们说话！”

Ada only dropped her head and pressed me closer to her heart.
艾达只是低下头，把我贴近她的心。

‘You surely don’t forget, my beauty,’ said I, smiling, ‘what quiet, old-fashioned people we are and how I have settled down to be the discreetest of dames? You don’t forget how happily and peacefully my life is all marked out for me, and by whom? I am certain that you don’t forget by what a noble character, Ada. That can never be.’
“你一定不会忘记，我的美人，”我微笑着说，“我们是多么安静、守旧的人，而我是如何安定下来成为最谨慎的贵妇的？你不会忘记我的生活是多么幸福和平静，是由谁来规划的？我确信你不会忘记艾达的高尚品格。那永远不可能。

‘No, never, Esther.’
“不，从来没有，埃丝特。”

‘Why then, my dear,’ said I, ‘there can be nothing amiss—and why should you not speak to us?’
“那么，亲爱的，”我说，“不会有什么问题的——为什么你不跟我们说话呢？”

‘Nothing amiss, Esther?’ returned Ada. ‘Oh, when I think of all these years, and of his fatherly care and kindness, and of the old relations among us, and of you, what shall I do, what shall I do!’
“没有什么问题吗，埃丝特？”艾达回答道。 “哦，当我想起这些年来，想起他父亲般的关怀和仁慈，想起我们之间的旧关系，还有你，我该怎么办，我该怎么办！”

I looked at my child in some wonder, but I thought it better not to answer otherwise than by cheering her, and so I turned off into many little recollections of our life together and prevented her from saying more. When she lay down to sleep, and not before, I returned to my guardian to say good night, and then I came back to Ada and sat near her for a little while.
我有些惊奇地看着我的孩子，但我认为最好不要回答，而是为她欢呼，所以我开始回忆我们在一起的生活，不让她再说更多。当她躺下睡觉时，而不是之前，我回到我的监护人那里道晚安，然后我回到艾达身边，在她身边坐了一会儿。

She was asleep, and I thought as I looked at her that she was a little changed. I had thought so more than once lately. I could not decide, even looking at her while she was unconscious, how she was changed, but something in the familiar beauty of her face looked different to me. My guardian’s old hopes of her and Richard arose sorrowfully in my mind, and I said to myself, ‘She has been anxious about him,’ and I wondered how that love would end.
她睡着了，我看着她，觉得她有点变了。我最近不止一次这么想。即使在她失去知觉时看着她，我也无法确定她发生了怎样的变化，但她熟悉的美丽面孔中的某些东西对我来说似乎有所不同。我的脑海里悲伤地升起监护人对她和理查德的旧日希望，我对自己说：“她一直为他担心。”我想知道这段爱情将如何结束。

When I had come home from Caddy’s while she was ill, I had often found Ada at work, and she had always put her work away, and I had never known what it was. Some of it now lay in a drawer near her, which was not quite closed. I did not open the drawer, but I still rather wondered what the work could he, for it was evidently nothing for herself.
当我从凯迪生病时从她那里回家时，我经常发现艾达在工作，而她总是把工作收起来，而我从来不知道那是什么。其中一些现在放在她附近的抽屉里，抽屉没有完全关闭。我没有打开抽屉，但我还是很想知道他能做什么，因为这显然对她来说没什么意义。

And I noticed as I kissed my dear that she lay with one hand under her pillow so that it was hidden.
当我亲吻我亲爱的时，我注意到她把一只手放在枕头下面，这样它就被隐藏起来了。

How much less amiable I must have been than they thought me, how much less amiable than I thought myself, to be so preoccupied with my own cheerfulness and contentment as to think that it only rested with me to put my dear girl right and set her mind at peace!
我一定比他们想象的更不和蔼可亲，比我自己想象的更不和蔼可亲，我如此专注于自己的快乐和满足，以至于认为只有我才能纠正我亲爱的女儿并安顿她。心态平和！

But I lay down, self-deceived, in that belief. And I awoke in it next day to find that there was still the same shade between me and my darling.
但我自欺欺人地相信了这一点。第二天我在其中醒来，发现我和我亲爱的之间仍然有同样的阴影。

CHAPTER LI
第 6 章


Enlightened
开明

When Mr. Woodcourt arrived in London, he went, that very same day, to Mr. Vholes’s in Symond’s Inn. For he never once, from the moment when I entreated him to be a friend to Richard, neglected or forgot his promise. He had told me that he accepted the charge as a sacred trust, and he was ever true to it in that spirit.
伍德考特先生抵达伦敦后，当天就去了位于西蒙旅馆的沃尔斯先生家。因为从我恳求他成为理查德的朋友那一刻起，他从来没有忽视或忘记过他的诺言。他告诉我，他接受这项指控是一种神圣的委托，并且他始终本着这种精神忠实于这一点。

He found Mr. Vholes in his office and informed Mr. Vholes of his agreement with Richard that he should call there to learn his address.
他在沃尔斯先生的办公室里找到了他，并告诉沃尔斯先生他与理查德达成协议，他应该打电话到那里了解他的地址。

‘Just so, sir,’ said Mr. Vholes. ‘Mr. C.’s address is not a hundred miles from here, sir, Mr. C.’s address is not a hundred miles from here. Would you take a seat, sir?’
“就是这样，先生，”沃尔斯先生说。 '先生。 C. 的地址距离这里不到一百英里，先生，C. 先生的地址距离这里不到一百英里。先生，请坐吧？

Mr. Woodcourt thanked Mr. Vholes, but he had no business with him beyond what he had mentioned.
伍德考特先生感谢了沃尔斯先生，但除了他提到的以外，他与他没有任何关系。

‘Just so, sir. I believe, sir,’ said Mr. Vholes, still quietly insisting on the seat by not giving the address, ‘that you have influence with Mr. C. Indeed I am aware that you have.’
“就是这样，先生。 “我相信，先生，”沃尔斯先生说道，他仍然默默地坚持要座位，没有发表讲话，“您对 C 先生有影响力。事实上，我知道您有影响力。”

‘I was not aware of it myself,’ returned Mr. Woodcourt; ‘but I suppose you know best.’
“我自己也没意识到这一点，”伍德考特先生回答道。 “但我想你最了解。”

‘Sir,’ rejoined Mr. Vholes, self-contained as usual, voice and all, ‘it is a part of my professional duty to know best. It is a part of my professional duty to study and to understand a gentleman who confides his interests to me. In my professional duty I shall not be wanting, sir, if I know it. I may, with the best intentions, be wanting in it without knowing it; but not if I know it, sir.’
“先生，”弗霍尔斯先生回答道，他的声音和平常一样独立，“了解情况是我职业职责的一部分。”研究和了解一位向我吐露兴趣的绅士是我职业职责的一部分。先生，如果我知道的话，在我的职业职责中我不会有所欠缺。出于最好的意图，我可能在不知情的情况下想要它；但如果我知道的话就不会了，先生。”

Mr. Woodcourt again mentioned the address.
伍德考特先生再次提到了这个地址。

‘Give me leave, sir,’ said Mr. Vholes. ‘Bear with me for a moment. Sir, Mr. C. is playing for a considerable stake, and cannot play without—need I say what?’
“请让我离开，先生，”沃尔斯先生说道。 “请耐心听我说一会儿。先生，C. 先生正在玩相当大的赌注，没有它就不能玩——需要我说什么吗？

‘Money, I presume?’
“我想是钱吧？”

‘Sir,’ said Mr. Vholes, ‘to be honest with you (honesty being my golden rule, whether I gain by it or lose, and I find that I generally lose), money is the word. Now, sir, upon the chances of Mr. C.’s game I express to you no opinion, NO opinion. It might be highly impolitic in Mr. C., after playing so long and so high, to leave off; it might be the reverse; I say nothing. No, sir,’ said Mr. Vholes, bringing his hand flat down upon his desk in a positive manner, ‘nothing.’
“先生，”沃尔斯先生说，“说实话（诚实是我的黄金法则，无论我从中获利还是损失，而且我发现我通常会损失），金钱就是这个词。现在，先生，对于 C. 先生的比赛的机会，我不向您表达任何意见，不发表任何意见。对于 C 先生来说，在玩了这么长时间、这么高调之后，放弃可能是非常不明智的。可能恰恰相反；我无话可说。不，先生，”沃尔斯先生说，他以一种积极的态度把手平放在桌子上，“没什么。”

‘You seem to forget,’ returned Mr, Woodcourt, ‘that I ask you to say nothing and have no interest in anything you say.’
“你似乎忘记了，”伍德考特先生回答道，“我要求你什么也不说，而且对你所说的任何事情都没有兴趣。”

‘Pardon me, sir!’ retorted Mr. Vholes. ‘You do yourself an injustice. No, sir! Pardon me! You shall not—shall not in my office, if I know it—do yourself an injustice. You are interested in anything, and in everything, that relates to your friend. I know human nature much better, sir, than to admit for an instant that a gentleman of your appearance is not interested in whatever concerns his friend.’
“请原谅，先生！”沃尔斯先生反驳道。 ‘你对自己不公平。不，先生！对不起！如果我知道的话，你不应该——不应该在我的办公室里——对自己做不公正的事情。你对与你的朋友有关的任何事情都感兴趣。先生，我比承认像你这样的绅士对他朋友关心的事情不感兴趣更了解人性。”

‘Well,’ replied Mr. Woodcourt, ‘that may be. I am particularly interested in his address.’
“嗯，”伍德考特先生回答说，“也许是这样。”我对他的地址特别感兴趣。

‘The number, sir,’ said Mr. Vholes parenthetically, ‘I believe I have already mentioned. If Mr. C. is to continue to play for this considerable stake, sir, he must have funds. Understand me! There are funds in hand at present. I ask for nothing; there are funds in hand. But for the onward play, more funds must be provided, unless Mr. C. is to throw away what he has already ventured, which is wholly and solely a point for his consideration. This, sir, I take the opportunity of stating openly to you as the friend of Mr. C. Without funds I shall always be happy to appear and act for Mr. C. to the extent of all such costs as are safe to be allowed out of the estate, not beyond that. I could not go beyond that, sir, without wronging some one. I must either wrong my three dear girls or my venerable father, who is entirely dependent on me, in the Vale of Taunton; or some one. Whereas, sir, my resolution is (call it weakness or folly if you please) to wrong no one.’
“这个数字，先生，”沃尔斯先生插话道，“我相信我已经提到过了。”先生，如果 C. 先生要继续争夺这笔相当大的股份，他就必须有资金。明白我！目前手头还有资金。我什么也不求；手头有资金。但对于接下来的比赛，必须提供更多的资金，除非C.先生要放弃他已经冒险的东西，这完全是他考虑的一点。先生，我借此机会以 C 先生的朋友的身份向您公开声明。如果没有资金，我将始终乐意为 C 先生出庭并在安全允许的所有费用范围内行事。走出庄园，不超出这个范围。先生，我无法超越这一点，否则就会冤枉某人。我要么得罪了我亲爱的三个女儿，要么得罪了我在汤顿谷完全依赖我的可敬的父亲；或某个。然而，先生，我的决心是（如果你愿意的话，可以称之为软弱或愚蠢）不伤害任何人。

Mr. Woodcourt rather sternly rejoined that he was glad to hear it.
伍德考特先生相当严厉地回答说他很高兴听到这个消息。

‘I wish, sir,’ said Mr. Vholes, ‘to leave a good name behind me. Therefore I take every opportunity of openly stating to a friend of Mr. C. how Mr. C. is situated. As to myself, sir, the labourer is worthy of his hire. If I undertake to put my shoulder to the wheel, I do it, and I earn what I get. I am here for that purpose. My name is painted on the door outside, with that object.’
“我希望，先生，”沃尔斯先生说，“为我留下一个好名声。”因此，我利用一切机会向 C. 先生的朋友公开说明 C. 先生的处境。先生，就我而言，这个工人是值得雇用的。如果我承诺全力以赴，我就会这么做，并且我会赚到我所得到的。我就是为了这个目的而来的。我的名字和那个东西一起画在外面的门上。”

‘And Mr. Carstone’s address, Mr. Vholes?’
“卡斯通先生的地址呢，沃尔斯先生？”

‘Sir,’ returned Mr. Vholes, ‘as I believe I have already mentioned, it is next door. On the second story you will find Mr. C.’s apartments. Mr. C. desires to be near his professional adviser, and I am far from objecting, for I court inquiry.’
“先生，”沃尔斯先生回答道，“我相信我已经提到过，它就在隔壁。”在二楼，您会发现 C. 先生的公寓。 C.先生希望接近他的专业顾问，我一点也不反对，因为我会接受询问。

Upon this Mr. Woodcourt wished Mr. Vholes good day and went in search of Richard, the change in whose appearance he began to understand now but too well.
伍德考特先生向沃尔斯先生问好，然后去寻找理查德，他现在开始理解理查德外表的变化，但太清楚了。

He found him in a dull room, fadedly furnished, much as I had found him in his barrack-room but a little while before, except that he was not writing but was sitting with a book before him, from which his eyes and thoughts were far astray. As the door chanced to be standing open, Mr. Woodcourt was in his presence for some moments without being perceived, and he told me that he never could forget the haggardness of his face and the dejection of his manner before he was aroused from his dream.
他发现他在一间昏暗的房间里，家具已经褪色，就像我不久前在他的营房里发现他一样，只是他没有在写字，而是坐在他面前，面前有一本书，他的眼睛和思想都来自这本书。误入歧途很远。当门碰巧开着时，伍德考特先生在他面前待了一会儿，但没有被察觉，他告诉我，他永远无法忘记他从梦中醒来之前的憔悴表情和沮丧态度。 。

‘Woodcourt, my dear fellow,’ cried Richard, starting up with extended hands, ‘you come upon my vision like a ghost.’
“伍德考特，我亲爱的朋友，”理查德伸出双手喊道，“你像幽灵一样出现在我的视野中。”

‘A friendly one,’ he replied, ‘and only waiting, as they say ghosts do, to be addressed. How does the mortal world go?’ They were seated now, near together.
“一个友好的人，”他回答道，“就像人们所说的鬼魂一样，只是等待着被解决。”现在，他们坐在一起，离得很近。

‘Badly enough, and slowly enough,’ said Richard, ‘speaking at least for my part of it.’
“已经够糟糕了，也够慢了，”理查德说，“至少就我而言。”

‘What part is that?’
“那是什么部分？”

‘The Chancery part.’
“大法官办公室部分。”

‘I never heard,’ returned Mr. Woodcourt, shaking his head, ‘of its going well yet.’
“我从来没有听说过，”伍德考特先生摇着头回答道，“目前还进展顺利。”

‘Nor I,’ said Richard moodily. ‘Who ever did?’ He brightened again in a moment and said with his natural openness, ‘Woodcourt, I should be sorry to be misunderstood by you, even if I gained by it in your estimation. You must know that I have done no good this long time. I have not intended to do much harm, but I seem to have been capable of nothing else. It may be that I should have done better by keeping out of the net into which my destiny has worked me, but I think not, though I dare say you will soon hear, if you have not already heard, a very different opinion. To make short of a long story, I am afraid I have wanted an object; but I have an object now—or it has me—and it is too late to discuss it. Take me as I am, and make the best of me.’
“我也没有，”理查德郁闷地说。 “谁曾经这样做过？”他立刻又高兴起来，用他自然的开放态度说道，“伍德考特，我应该为被你误解而感到遗憾，即使在你看来我因此而获益。”你一定知道，我这么久没有做过任何好事。我并不想造成太大的伤害，但我似乎也无能为力。也许我应该做得更好，远离我的命运给我带来的罗网，但我认为不是，尽管我敢说，如果你还没有听说过，你很快就会听到一个非常不同的意见。长话短说，我恐怕想要一个东西；但我现在有一个物体——或者说它有我——而现在讨论它已经太晚了。接受我本来的样子，充分利用我。

‘A bargain,’ said Mr. Woodcourt. ‘Do as much by me in return.’
“很划算，”伍德考特先生说。 “我也做同样多的事作为回报。”

‘Oh! You,’ returned Richard, ‘you can pursue your art for its own sake, and can put your hand upon the plough and never turn, and can strike a purpose out of anything. You and I are very different creatures.’
'哦！你，”理查德回答道，“你可以为了艺术本身而追求你的艺术，你可以把手放在犁上而不转动，你可以从任何事情中找到一个目的。你和我是非常不同的生物。

He spoke regretfully and lapsed for a moment into his weary condition.
他遗憾地说着，一时间陷入了疲倦的状态。

‘Well, well!’ he cried, shaking it off. ‘Everything has an end. We shall see! So you will take me as I am, and make the best of me?’
“好吧，好吧！”他喊道，甩掉了它。 '所有事都会过去的。我们将会看到！那么你会接受我本来的样子，并充分利用我吗？

‘Aye! Indeed I will.’ They shook hands upon it laughingly, but in deep earnestness. I can answer for one of them with my heart of hearts.
‘是啊！我确实会的。”他们笑着与它握手，但语气十分诚恳。我可以真心实意地回答其中一个问题。

‘You come as a godsend,’ said Richard, ‘for I have seen nobody here yet but Vholes. Woodcourt, there is one subject I should like to mention, for once and for all, in the beginning of our treaty. You can hardly make the best of me if I don’t. You know, I dare say, that I have an attachment to my cousin Ada?’
“你的到来真是天赐之物，”理查德说，“因为除了沃尔斯之外，我还没见过这里的任何人。”伍德考特，在我们条约的开头，我想一劳永逸地提到一个主题。如果我不这样做，你就很难充分利用我。我敢说，你知道我对我的表弟艾达有一种依恋吗？

Mr. Woodcourt replied that I had hinted as much to him. ‘Now pray,’ returned Richard, ‘don’t think me a heap of selfishness. Don’t suppose that I am splitting my head and half breaking my heart over this miserable Chancery suit for my own rights and interests alone. Ada’s are bound up with mine; they can’t be separated; Vholes works for both of us. Do think of that!’
伍德考特先生回答说我已经向他暗示过这一点。 “现在祈祷，”理查德回答道，“不要认为我很自私。别以为我只是为了自己的权益而为了这桩悲惨的大法官诉讼而伤透了心。艾达的与我的紧密相连；他们无法分开； Vholes 为我们俩工作。请想一想！

He was so very solicitous on this head that Mr. Woodcourt gave him the strongest assurances that he did him no injustice.
他对这个问题非常关心，伍德考特先生向他做出了最有力的保证，保证他不会冤枉他。

‘You see,’ said Richard, with something pathetic in his manner of lingering on the point, though it was off-hand and unstudied, ‘to an upright fellow like you, bringing a friendly face like yours here, I cannot bear the thought of appearing selfish and mean. I want to see Ada righted, Woodcourt, as well as myself; I want to do my utmost to right her, as well as myself; I venture what I can scrape together to extricate her, as well as myself. Do, I beseech you, think of that!’
“你看，”理查德说道，他的语气中带着一种可悲的意味，尽管他的语气是即兴的、未经深思熟虑的，“对于像你这样正直的人，带着一张像你这样友善的面孔来到这里，我无法忍受这样的想法。”显得自私和卑鄙。我希望看到艾达得到伸张正义，伍德考特，还有我自己；我想尽我最大的努力纠正她，也纠正我自己；我冒险尽我所能来解救她，也解救我自己。我恳求你，想一想！

Afterwards, when Mr. Woodcourt came to reflect on what had passed, he was so very much impressed by the strength of Richard’s anxiety on this point that in telling me generally of his first visit to Symond’s Inn he particularly dwelt upon it. It revived a fear I had had before that my dear girl’s little property would be absorbed by Mr. Vholes and that Richard’s justification to himself would be sincerely this. It was just as I began to take care of Caddy that the interview took place, and I now return to the time when Caddy had recovered and the shade was still between me and my darling.
后来，当伍德考特先生开始反思所发生的事情时，理查德在这一点上的焦虑程度给他留下了深刻的印象，因此在向我讲述他第一次访问西蒙旅馆的大体情况时，他特别详细地讲述了这一点。这让我再次产生了一种恐惧，担心我亲爱的女儿的一点财产会被沃尔斯先生吸收，而理查德对自己的辩护也将是真诚的。就在我开始照顾凯迪的时候，采访发生了，我现在回到了凯迪康复的时候，阴影还在我和我的宝贝之间。

I proposed to Ada that morning that we should go and see Richard. It a little surprised me to find that she hesitated and was not so radiantly willing as I had expected.
那天早上我向艾达提议我们应该去见理查德。让我有点惊讶的是，她犹豫了，并没有我想象的那么乐意。

‘My dear,’ said I, ‘you have not had any difference with Richard since I have been so much away?’
“亲爱的，”我说，“自从我离开这么久以来，你和理查德没有什么不同吗？”

‘No, Esther.’
“不，埃丝特。”

‘Not heard of him, perhaps?’ said I.
“也许没有听说过他？”我说。

‘Yes, I have heard of him,’ said Ada.
“是的，我听说过他，”艾达说。

Such tears in her eyes, and such love in her face. I could not make my darling out. Should I go to Richard’s by myself? I said. No, Ada thought I had better not go by myself. Would she go with me? Yes, Ada thought she had better go with me. Should we go now? Yes, let us go now. Well, I could not understand my darling, with the tears in her eyes and the love in her face!
她的眼里充满了泪水，脸上充满了爱。我无法让我的宝贝出来。我应该自己去理查德家吗？我说。不，艾达认为我最好不要自己去。她愿意和我一起去吗？是的，艾达认为她最好和我一起去。我们现在该走了吗？是的，我们现在就走吧。好吧，我无法理解我亲爱的，她眼里含着泪水，脸上充满爱意！

We were soon equipped and went out. It was a sombre day, and drops of chill rain fell at intervals. It was one of those colourless days when everything looks heavy and harsh. The houses frowned at us, the dust rose at us, the smoke swooped at us, nothing made any compromise about itself or wore a softened aspect. I fancied my beautiful girl quite out of place in the rugged streets, and I thought there were more funerals passing along the dismal pavements than I had ever seen before.
很快我们就装备好了，就出去了。天阴沉的，时不时下着冰冷的雨点。那是那些毫无色彩的日子之一，一切都显得沉重而严酷。房屋向我们皱着眉头，尘土向我们扬起，烟雾向我们猛扑过来，没有任何东西对自己做出任何妥协，也没有表现出柔和的一面。我觉得我美丽的女儿在崎岖的街道上显得格格不入，而且我认为沿着阴暗的人行道举行的葬礼比我以前见过的还要多。

We had first to find out Symond’s Inn. We were going to inquire in a shop when Ada said she thought it was near Chancery Lane. ‘We are not likely to be far out, my love, if we go in that direction,’ said I. So to Chancery Lane we went, and there, sure enough, we saw it written up. Symond’s Inn.
我们首先要找到西蒙旅馆。我们正要去一家商店打听，艾达说她认为那家商店就在大法官巷附近。我说：“亲爱的，如果我们朝那个方向走，我们就不会走得太远。”于是我们去了大法官巷，果然，我们看到了上面写着的东西。西蒙德旅馆。

We had next to find out the number. ‘Or Mr. Vholes’s office will do,’ I recollected, ‘for Mr. Vholes’s office is next door.’ Upon which Ada said, perhaps that was Mr. Vholes’s office in the corner there. And it really was.
接下来我们要找出号码。 “或者沃尔斯先生的办公室也行，”我回忆道，“因为沃尔斯先生的办公室就在隔壁。”艾达说，也许那就是沃尔斯先生在角落里的办公室。确实如此。

Then came the question, which of the two next doors? I was going for the one, and my darling was going for the other; and my darling was right again. So up we went to the second story, when we came to Richard’s name in great white letters on a hearse-like panel.
那么问题来了，隔壁两个是哪一个？我想要一个，而我亲爱的想要另一个；我亲爱的又是对的。于是我们就到了第二层，看到理查德的名字，上面写着白色的大字，写在灵车一样的面板上。

I should have knocked, but Ada said perhaps we had better turn the handle and go in. Thus we came to Richard, poring over a table covered with dusty bundles of papers which seemed to me like dusty mirrors reflecting his own mind. Wherever I looked I saw the ominous words that ran in it repeated. Jarndyce and Jarndyce.
我本应该敲门的，但艾达说也许我们最好转动把手进去。就这样，我们来到了理查德身边，仔细地看着一张桌子，桌子上堆满了灰尘的一捆捆文件，在我看来，这些文件就像布满灰尘的镜子，反射着他自己的想法。无论我往哪里看，我都看到里面重复着不祥的话语。贾迪斯和贾迪斯。

He received us very affectionately, and we sat down. ‘If you had come a little earlier,’ he said, ‘you would have found Woodcourt here. There never was such a good fellow as Woodcourt is. He finds time to look in between-whiles, when anybody else with half his work to do would be thinking about not being able to come. And he is so cheery, so fresh, so sensible, so earnest, so—everything that I am not, that the place brightens whenever he comes, and darkens whenever he goes again.’
他非常热情地接待了我们，我们就坐了下来。 “如果你来得早一点，”他说，“你就会在这里找到伍德考特了。”从来没有像伍德考特这样的好人。当其他有一半工作要做的人会考虑不能来的时候，他会抽出时间去看看。他是那么快乐，那么新鲜，那么明智，那么认真，那么——一切都是我所不具备的，所以每当他到来时，这个地方就会变得明亮，而每当他再次离开时，这个地方就会变得黑暗。

‘God bless him,’ I thought, ‘for his truth to me!’
“上帝保佑他，”我想，“因为他对我很诚实！”

‘He is not so sanguine, Ada,’ continued Richard, casting his dejected look over the bundles of papers, ‘as Vholes and I are usually, but he is only an outsider and is not in the mysteries. We have gone into them, and he has not. He can’t be expected to know much of such a labyrinth.’
“他不像我和沃尔斯那样乐观，艾达，”理查德继续说道，沮丧地看着一叠文件，“但他只是一个局外人，并不处于神秘之中。我们已经深入研究过它们，而他还没有。不能指望他对这样的迷宫了解太多。

As his look wandered over the papers again and he passed his two hands over his head, I noticed how sunken and how large his eyes appeared, how dry his lips were, and how his finger-nails were all bitten away.
当他的目光再次在文件上徘徊，他用两只手举过头顶时，我注意到他的眼睛显得多么凹陷、多么大，他的嘴唇多么干燥，他的指甲都被咬掉了。

‘Is this a healthy place to live in, Richard, do you think?’ said I.
“理查德，你认为这里是一个健康的居住地吗？”我说。

‘Why, my dear Minerva,’ answered Richard with his old gay laugh, ‘it is neither a rural nor a cheerful place; and when the sun shines here, you may lay a pretty heavy wager that it is shining brightly in an open spot. But it’s well enough for the time. It’s near the offices and near Vholes.’
“哎呀，我亲爱的密涅瓦，”理查德用他一贯的欢快的笑声回答道，“那既不是一个乡村，也不是一个令人愉快的地方；它是一个充满活力的地方。”当阳光照耀这里时，你可以打赌，它在空旷的地方闪耀着明亮的光芒。但对于当时来说已经足够了。它靠近办公室，靠近 Vholes。”

‘Perhaps,’ I hinted, ‘a change from both—‘
“也许，”我暗示道，“两者都发生了变化——”

‘Might do me good?’ said Richard, forcing a laugh as he finished the sentence. ‘I shouldn’t wonder! But it can only come in one way now—in one of two ways, I should rather say. Either the suit must be ended, Esther, or the suitor. But it shall be the suit, my dear girl, the suit, my dear girl!’
“这对我有好处吗？”理查德说完，强颜欢笑。 ‘我不应该奇怪！但现在它只能以一种方式出现——我宁愿说，以两种方式之一。要么诉讼必须结束，埃丝特，要么求婚者。但它应该是西装，我亲爱的女孩，西装，我亲爱的女孩！

These latter words were addressed to Ada, who was sitting nearest to him. Her face being turned away from me and towards him, I could not see it.
后面这句话是对坐在离他最近的艾达说的。她的脸背对着我，转向了他，我看不到。

‘We are doing very well,’ pursued Richard. ‘Vholes will tell you so. We are really spinning along. Ask Vholes. We are giving them no rest. Vholes knows all their windings and turnings, and we are upon them everywhere. We have astonished them already. We shall rouse up that nest of sleepers, mark my words!’
“我们做得很好，”理查德继续说道。 ‘维霍尔斯会告诉你的。我们真的在旋转。问问维霍尔斯。我们不让他们休息。沃尔斯知道它们所有的蜿蜒曲折，我们无处不在。我们已经让他们感到惊讶了。我们将唤醒那一窝沉睡者，记住我的话！”

His hopefulness had long been more painful to me than his despondency; it was so unlike hopefulness, had something so fierce in its determination to be it, was so hungry and eager, and yet so conscious of being forced and unsustainable that it had long touched me to the heart. But the commentary upon it now indelibly written in his handsome face made it far more distressing than it used to be. I say indelibly, for I felt persuaded that if the fatal cause could have been for ever terminated, according to his brightest visions, in that same hour, the traces of the premature anxiety, self-reproach, and disappointment it had occasioned him would have remained upon his features to the hour of his death.
长期以来，他的希望比他的沮丧更令我痛苦。它与希望如此不同，它有一种如此强烈的决心，如此饥饿和渴望，但又如此意识到被迫和不可持续，以至于它早已触动了我的心。但现在他英俊的脸上写着不可磨灭的评论，却比以前更加令人痛苦。我说不可磨灭，因为我深信，如果致命的原因能够永远终止，根据他最明亮的愿景，在同一时刻，过早的焦虑、自责和失望的痕迹就会消失。直到他去世的那一刻，它仍然留在他的脸上。

‘The sight of our dear little woman,’ said Richard, Ada still remaining silent and quiet, ‘is so natural to me, and her compassionate face is so like the face of old days—‘
“看到我们亲爱的小女人，”理查德说，艾达仍然保持着沉默和安静，“对我来说是那么自然，她富有同情心的脸就像过去的脸一样——”

Ah! No, no. I smiled and shook my head.
啊!不，不。我微笑着摇了摇头。

‘—So exactly like the face of old days,’ said Richard in his cordial voice, and taking my hand with the brotherly regard which nothing ever changed, ‘that I can’t make pretences with her. I fluctuate a little; that’s the truth. Sometimes I hope, my dear, and sometimes I—don’t quite despair, but nearly. I get,’ said Richard, relinquishing my hand gently and walking across the room, ‘so tired!’
“——和过去的脸一模一样，”理查德用他亲切的声音说道，并以从未改变过的兄弟般的态度握住我的手，“我不能对她假装。”我有点波动；这是事实。有时我希望，亲爱的，有时我——并不完全绝望，但几乎绝望。 “我明白了，”理查德轻轻地放开我的手，穿过房间，“太累了！”

He took a few turns up and down and sunk upon the sofa. ‘I get,’ he repeated gloomily, ‘so tired. It is such weary, weary work!’
他上下翻了几圈，倒在沙发上。 “我明白，”他阴沉地重复道，“太累了。”这是多么令人厌倦、令人厌倦的工作啊！

He was leaning on his arm saying these words in a meditative voice and looking at the ground when my darling rose, put off her bonnet, kneeled down beside him with her golden hair falling like sunlight on his head, clasped her two arms round his neck, and turned her face to me. Oh, what a loving and devoted face I saw!
他靠在他的手臂上，用沉思的声音说着这些话，看着地面，这时我亲爱的站起来，摘下帽子，跪在他身边，金色的头发像阳光一样落在他的头上，用两只手臂搂住他的脖子。 ，然后把脸转向我。哦，我看到了一张多么慈爱和忠诚的脸啊！

‘Esther, dear,’ she said very quietly, ‘I am not going home again.’
“埃丝特，亲爱的，”她非常平静地说，“我不会再回家了。”

A light shone in upon me all at once.
一道光立刻照在我身上。

‘Never any more. I am going to stay with my dear husband. We have been married above two months. Go home without me, my own Esther; I shall never go home any more!’ With those words my darling drew his head down on her breast and held it there. And if ever in my life I saw a love that nothing but death could change, I saw it then before me.
'再也不会了。我要和我亲爱的丈夫住在一起。我们结婚两个多月了。回家吧，别带我，我自己的埃丝特；我再也不会回家了！”说完这句话，我亲爱的把头埋在她的胸口上。如果我一生中见过一种只有死亡才能改变的爱，那么我就看到了它就在我面前。

‘Speak to Esther, my dearest,’ said Richard, breaking the silence presently. ‘Tell her how it was.’
“跟我最亲爱的埃丝特谈谈，”理查德立刻打破了沉默。 “告诉她情况如何。”

I met her before she could come to me and folded her in my arms. We neither of us spoke, but with her cheek against my own I wanted to hear nothing. ‘My pet,’ said I. ‘My love. My poor, poor girl!’ I pitied her so much. I was very fond of Richard, but the impulse that I had upon me was to pity her so much.
在她来到我身边并将她抱在我怀里之前，我遇见了她。我们谁也没说话，但她的脸贴着我的脸，我什么也不想听。 “我的宠物，”我说，“我的爱人。”我可怜的、可怜的女孩！”我非常可怜她。我非常喜欢理查德，但我的冲动却是非常可怜她。

‘Esther, will you forgive me? Will my cousin John forgive me?’
‘艾丝特，你能原谅我吗？我的表弟约翰会原谅我吗？

‘My dear,’ said I, ‘to doubt it for a moment is to do him a great wrong. And as to me!’ Why, as to me, what had I to forgive!
“亲爱的，”我说，“哪怕有片刻的怀疑，就是对他大错特错。”至于我！’为什么，对于我来说，我有什么可以原谅的！

I dried my sobbing darling’s eyes and sat beside her on the sofa, and Richard sat on my other side; and while I was reminded of that so different night when they had first taken me into their confidence and had gone on in their own wild happy way, they told me between them how it was.
我擦干亲爱的哭泣的眼睛，坐在她旁边的沙发上，理查德坐在我的另一边。虽然我想起了那个截然不同的夜晚，当时他们第一次信任我，并以他们自己狂野快乐的方式继续生活，他们告诉我他们之间的情况。

‘All I had was Richard’s,’ Ada said; ‘and Richard would not take it, Esther, and what could I do but be his wife when I loved him dearly!’
“我的一切都是理查德的，”艾达说。 “而理查德不会接受，埃丝特，当我深爱着他时，我除了成为他的妻子还能做什么！”

‘And you were so fully and so kindly occupied, excellent Dame Durden,’ said Richard, ‘that how could we speak to you at such a time! And besides, it was not a long-considered step. We went out one morning and were married.’
“杰出的杜登夫人，您是如此忙碌，如此亲切，”理查德说，“我们怎么能在这种时候和您说话呢！而且，这并不是一个经过长期考虑的步骤。一天早上我们出去结婚了。”

‘And when it was done, Esther,’ said my darling, ‘I was always thinking how to tell you and what to do for the best. And sometimes I thought you ought to know it directly, and sometimes I thought you ought not to know it and keep it from my cousin John; and I could not tell what to do, and I fretted very much.’
“当事情完成后，埃丝特，”我亲爱的说，“我一直在想如何告诉你，以及怎样做才是最好的。”有时我认为你应该直接知道它，有时我认为你不应该知道它并瞒着我的表弟约翰；我不知道该怎么办，我非常烦恼。

How selfish I must have been not to have thought of this before! I don’t know what I said now. I was so sorry, and yet I was so fond of them and so glad that they were fond of me; I pitied them so much, and yet I felt a kind of pride in their loving one another. I never had experienced such painful and pleasurable emotion at one time, and in my own heart I did not know which predominated. But I was not there to darken their way; I did not do that.
我以前没有想到这一点，真是太自私了！我现在不知道我说了什么。我很抱歉，但我很喜欢他们，很高兴他们喜欢我；我非常同情他们，但我为他们彼此相爱感到一种自豪。我从来没有同时体验过如此痛苦和愉悦的情绪，而我自己心里也分不清到底是哪一种占主导地位。但我并不是为了遮蔽他们的道路；我没有那样做。

When I was less foolish and more composed, my darling took her wedding-ring from her bosom, and kissed it, and put it on. Then I remembered last night and told Richard that ever since her marriage she had worn it at night when there was no one to see. Then Ada blushingly asked me how did I know that, my dear. Then I told Ada how I had seen her hand concealed under her pillow and had little thought why, my dear. Then they began telling me how it was all over again, and I began to be sorry and glad again, and foolish again, and to hide my plain old face as much as I could lest I should put them out of heart.
当我不再那么愚蠢、变得更加镇定时，我的宝贝从怀里取出了结婚戒指，亲吻了它，然后戴上了它。然后我想起昨晚，告诉理查德，自从她结婚以来，她就在晚上没人见的时候戴着它。然后艾达红着脸问我怎么知道的，亲爱的。然后我告诉艾达我如何看到她的手藏在枕头下，但几乎没有想到为什么，亲爱的。然后他们开始告诉我这一切是如何重来的，我又开始感到遗憾和高兴，又开始愚蠢，并尽可能地隐藏我那张朴素的老脸，以免我让他们心烦意乱。

Thus the time went on until it became necessary for me to think of returning. When that time arrived it was the worst of all, for then my darling completely broke down. She clung round my neck, calling me by every dear name she could think of and saying what should she do without me! Nor was Richard much better; and as for me, I should have been the worst of the three if I had not severely said to myself, ‘Now Esther, if you do, I’ll never speak to you again!’
时间就这么过去了，直到我不得不考虑回去。当那一刻到来时，这是最糟糕的，因为那时我亲爱的完全崩溃了。她搂住我的脖子，用她能想到的每一个可爱的名字呼唤我，并说如果没有我她该怎么办！理查德也好不了多少。至于我，如果我没有严厉地对自己说：“埃丝特，如果你这样做，我就再也不会和你说话了！”

‘Why, I declare,’ said I, ‘I never saw such a wife. I don’t think she loves her husband at all. Here, Richard, take my child, for goodness’ sake.’ But I held her tight all the while, and could have wept over her I don’t know how long.
“哎呀，我声明，”我说，“我从来没有见过这样的妻子。”我认为她根本不爱她的丈夫。理查德，看在上帝的份上，带上我的孩子吧。”但我一直紧紧地抱着她，我不知道我可以为她哭泣多久。

‘I give this dear young couple notice,’ said I, ‘that I am only going away to come back to-morrow and that I shall be always coming backwards and forwards until Symond’s Inn is tired of the sight of me. So I shall not say good-bye, Richard. For what would be the use of that, you know, when I am coming back so soon!’
“我通知这对亲爱的年轻夫妇，”我说，“我只是离开，明天才回来，而且我将一直来回走动，直到西蒙旅馆厌倦了我的视线。所以我不会说再见，理查德。你知道，我这么快就回来了，那有什么用呢！

I had given my darling to him now, and I meant to go; but I lingered for one more look of the precious face which it seemed to rive my heart to turn from.
我现在已经把我的爱人交给了他，我也打算走了；但我还是想再看一眼那张珍贵的脸，它似乎让我的心不得不转开。

So I said (in a merry, bustling manner) that unless they gave me some encouragement to come back, I was not sure that I could take that liberty, upon which my dear girl looked up, faintly smiling through her tears, and I folded her lovely face between my hands, and gave it one last kiss, and laughed, and ran away.
所以我（以一种快乐、忙碌的方式）说，除非他们给我一些鼓励让我回来，否则我不确定我是否可以采取这种自由，我亲爱的女孩抬起头来，泪水微弱地微笑着，我折叠起来我双手捧着她那张可爱的脸，最后吻了一下，然后笑了，然后跑开了。

And when I got downstairs, oh, how I cried! It almost seemed to me that I had lost my Ada for ever. I was so lonely and so blank without her, and it was so desolate to be going home with no hope of seeing her there, that I could get no comfort for a little while as I walked up and down in a dim corner sobbing and crying.
当我下楼时，哦，我哭了！在我看来，我几乎永远失去了我的艾达。没有她，我是多么孤独，多么茫然，回家却看不到她，心里多么凄凉，我在昏暗的角落里走来走去，抽泣着，一时得不到安慰。 。

I came to myself by and by, after a little scolding, and took a coach home. The poor boy whom I had found at St. Albans had reappeared a short time before and was lying at the point of death; indeed, was then dead, though I did not know it. My guardian had gone out to inquire about him and did not return to dinner. Being quite alone, I cried a little again, though on the whole I don’t think I behaved so very, very ill.
经过一番责骂后，我渐渐清醒过来，坐了一辆马车回家。我在圣奥尔本斯找到的那个可怜的男孩不久前又出现了，而且已经濒临死亡。事实上，他当时已经死了，尽管我并不知道。我的监护人出去打听他的情况，没有回来吃晚饭。由于孤身一人，我又哭了一会儿，不过总的来说，我认为我的行为并没有那么糟糕。

It was only natural that I should not be quite accustomed to the loss of my darling yet. Three or four hours were not a long time after years. But my mind dwelt so much upon the uncongenial scene in which I had left her, and I pictured it as such an overshadowed stony-hearted one, and I so longed to be near her and taking some sort of care of her, that I determined to go back in the evening only to look up at her windows.
很自然的是，我还不太习惯失去我的爱人。时隔多年，三四个小时并不算长的时间。但我的思绪太多地停留在我离开她时的不愉快的场景上，我把它想象成一个黯然失色的铁石心肠的场景，我如此渴望靠近她并照顾她，所以我决定晚上回去只是为了抬头看看她的窗户。

It was foolish, I dare say, but it did not then seem at all so to me, and it does not seem quite so even now. I took Charley into my confidence, and we went out at dusk. It was dark when we came to the new strange home of my dear girl, and there was a light behind the yellow blinds. We walked past cautiously three or four times, looking up, and narrowly missed encountering Mr. Vholes, who came out of his office while we were there and turned his head to look up too before going home. The sight of his lank black figure and the lonesome air of that nook in the dark were favourable to the state of my mind. I thought of the youth and love and beauty of my dear girl, shut up in such an ill-assorted refuge, almost as if it were a cruel place.
我敢说，这是愚蠢的，但当时对我来说根本不是这样，甚至现在看来也不是那么回事。我信任查理，我们在黄昏时出去了。当我们来到我亲爱的女儿陌生的新家时，天已经黑了，黄色的百叶窗后面有一盏灯。我们小心翼翼地走过三四次，抬头仰望，差点就遇到了沃尔斯先生，我们在的时候他从办公室里出来，回家前也转过头抬头看了看。看到他那瘦长的黑色身影，以及黑暗中那个角落的孤独空气，都对我的心境产生了有利的影响。我想起了我亲爱的女儿的青春、爱情和美丽，她被关在这样一个杂乱无章的避难所里，几乎就像是一个残酷的地方。

It was very solitary and very dull, and I did not doubt that I might safely steal upstairs. I left Charley below and went up with a light foot, not distressed by any glare from the feeble oil lanterns on the way. I listened for a few moments, and in the musty rotting silence of the house believed that I could hear the murmur of their young voices. I put my lips to the hearse-like panel of the door as a kiss for my dear and came quietly down again, thinking that one of these days I would confess to the visit.
那里非常孤独，非常沉闷，我毫不怀疑我可以安全地偷上楼。我把查理留在下面，轻轻松松地上了去，路上微弱的油灯发出的刺眼的光芒并没有让我感到不安。我听了一会儿，在房子里发霉腐烂的寂静中，我相信我能听到他们年轻的低语声。我把嘴唇放在像灵车一样的门板上，作为对亲爱的人的一个吻，然后又悄悄地下来，想着有一天我会承认我的来访。

And it really did me good, for though nobody but Charley and I knew anything about it, I somehow felt as if it had diminished the separation between Ada and me and had brought us together again for those moments. I went back, not quite accustomed yet to the change, but all the better for that hovering about my darling.
这确实对我有好处，因为虽然除了查理和我之外没有人知道这件事，但我不知何故感觉好像它减少了艾达和我之间的分离，并在那些时刻让我们再次聚集在一起。我回去了，虽然还不太习惯这种变化，但在我亲爱的身边徘徊就更好了。

My guardian had come home and was standing thoughtfully by the dark window. When I went in, his face cleared and he came to his seat, but he caught the light upon my face as I took mine.
我的监护人回家了，站在黑暗的窗边若有所思。当我进去时，他的脸变得清晰起来，他来到了自己的座位上，但当我拿起我的座位时，他看到了我脸上的光芒。

‘Little woman,’ said he, ‘You have been crying.’
“小女人，”他说，“你一直在哭。”

‘Why, yes, guardian,’ said I, ‘I am afraid I have been, a little. Ada has been in such distress, and is so very sorry, guardian.’
“嗯，是的，监护人，”我说，“恐怕我曾经有过一点。”艾达一直处于如此痛苦的境地，我非常抱歉，监护人。”

I put my arm on the back of his chair, and I saw in his glance that my words and my look at her empty place had prepared him.
我把手臂放在他的椅背上，从他的眼神中我看出我的话和我看着她空荡荡的地方已经让他做好了准备。

‘Is she married, my dear?’
“亲爱的，她结婚了吗？”

I told him all about it and how her first entreaties had referred to his forgiveness.
我告诉了他这一切，以及她的第一次恳求是如何得到他的宽恕的。

‘She has no need of it,’ said he. ‘Heaven bless her and her husband!’ But just as my first impulse had been to pity her, so was his. ‘Poor girl, poor girl! Poor Rick! Poor Ada!’
“她不需要它，”他说。 “愿上帝保佑她和她的丈夫！”但正如我的第一反应是可怜她一样，他也是如此。 ‘可怜的姑娘，可怜的姑娘！可怜的瑞克！可怜的艾达！

Neither of us spoke after that, until he said with a sigh, ‘Well, well, my dear! Bleak House is thinning fast.’
此后我们谁都没有说话，直到他叹了口气说：‘好吧，好吧，亲爱的！ 《荒凉山庄》正在迅速减少。

‘But its mistress remains, guardian.’ Though I was timid about saying it, I ventured because of the sorrowful tone in which he had spoken. ‘She will do all she can to make it happy,’ said I.
“但它的女主人仍然存在，守护者。”虽然我不敢这么说，但由于他说话时的悲伤语气，我还是冒险说出来。 “她会尽一切努力让它幸福，”我说。

‘She will succeed, my love!’
“她会成功的，我的爱人！”

The letter had made no difference between us except that the seat by his side had come to be mine; it made none now. He turned his old bright fatherly look upon me, laid his hand on my hand in his old way, and said again, ‘She will succeed, my dear. Nevertheless, Bleak House is thinning fast, O little woman!’
这封信对我们之间没有任何影响，只是他旁边的座位变成了我的。现在它什么也没有了。他用他那古老而明亮的父亲般的目光看着我，以他一贯的方式把手放在我的手上，再次说道：“她会成功的，亲爱的。”尽管如此，荒凉山庄正在迅速减少，哦，小女人！

I was sorry presently that this was all we said about that. I was rather disappointed. I feared I might not quite have been all I had meant to be since the letter and the answer.
我很抱歉，我们对此就只说了这么多。我相当失望。我担心自从收到这封信和得到答复以来，我可能并没有完全成为我想要的样子。

CHAPTER LII
第十三章


Obstinacy
固执

But one other day had intervened when, early in the morning as we were going to breakfast, Mr. Woodcourt came in haste with the astounding news that a terrible murder had been committed for which Mr. George had been apprehended and was in custody. When he told us that a large reward was offered by Sir Leicester Dedlock for the murderer’s apprehension, I did not in my first consternation understand why; but a few more words explained to me that the murdered person was Sir Leicester’s lawyer, and immediately my mother’s dread of him rushed into my remembrance.
但有一天，我们一大早就要去吃早餐，伍德考特先生匆匆而来，带来了令人震惊的消息：发生了一起可怕的谋杀案，乔治先生因此被捕并被拘留。当他告诉我们，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士悬赏悬赏逮捕凶手时，我一开始惊愕不明白这是为什么；但我又说了几句话，就知道被谋杀的人是莱斯特爵士的律师，我立刻就想起了母亲对他的恐惧。

This unforeseen and violent removal of one whom she had long watched and distrusted and who had long watched and distrusted her, one for whom she could have had few intervals of kindness, always dreading in him a dangerous and secret enemy, appeared so awful that my first thoughts were of her. How appalling to hear of such a death and be able to feel no pity! How dreadful to remember, perhaps, that she had sometimes even wished the old man away who was so swiftly hurried out of life!
这种出乎意料的、暴力的方式将一个她长期注视和不信任的人，一个她长期以来一直注视和不信任她的人，一个她本来可以很少有善意的时间间隔的人，总是害怕他是一个危险和秘密的敌人，显得如此可怕，以至于我的第一个想到的就是她。听到这样的死亡却毫无怜悯之心，这是多么令人震惊啊！也许，想起她有时甚至希望那位如此迅速地从生活中消失的老人走开，这真是太可怕了！

Such crowding reflections, increasing the distress and fear I always felt when the name was mentioned, made me so agitated that I could scarcely hold my place at the table. I was quite unable to follow the conversation until I had had a little time to recover. But when I came to myself and saw how shocked my guardian was and found that they were earnestly speaking of the suspected man and recalling every favourable impression we had formed of him out of the good we had known of him, my interest and my fears were so strongly aroused in his behalf that I was quite set up again.
如此拥挤的思考，增加了我在提到这个名字时总是感到的痛苦和恐惧，让我如此激动，以至于我几乎无法在餐桌上保持自己的位置。我完全无法跟上谈话内容，直到我有一点时间恢复过来。但当我清醒过来，看到我的监护人是多么震惊，发现他们正在认真地谈论那个可疑男子，并回想起我们基于对他的了解而对他形成的每一个好印象时，我的兴趣和恐惧都消失了。我对他的感情如此强烈，以至于我再次陷入了困境。

‘Guardian, you don’t think it possible that he is justly accused?’
“监护人，你认为他不可能受到公正的指控吗？”

‘My dear, I CAN’T think so. This man whom we have seen so openhearted and compassionate, who with the might of a giant has the gentleness of a child, who looks as brave a fellow as ever lived and is so simple and quiet with it, this man justly accused of such a crime? I can’t believe it. It’s not that I don’t or I won’t. I can’t!’
‘亲爱的，我不这么认为。我们所看到的这个人如此坦诚和富有同情心，他拥有巨人的力量，却又拥有孩子般的温柔，他看起来像以前一样勇敢，而且如此简单和安静，这个人被公正地指控为这样的人。犯罪？我简直不敢相信。并不是我不这样做或我不会。我不能！

‘And I can’t,’ said Mr. Woodcourt. ‘Still, whatever we believe or know of him, we had better not forget that some appearances are against him. He bore an animosity towards the deceased gentleman. He has openly mentioned it in many places. He is said to have expressed himself violently towards him, and he certainly did about him, to my knowledge. He admits that he was alone on the scene of the murder within a few minutes of its commission. I sincerely believe him to be as innocent of any participation in it as I am, but these are all reasons for suspicion falling upon him.’
“我不能，”伍德考特先生说。 “尽管如此，无论我们相信或了解他，我们最好不要忘记有些外表对他不利。他对已故的绅士怀有敌意。他在很多地方都公开提到过这一点。据说他对他表达了暴力，据我所知，他确实对他做了暴力。他承认，谋杀案发生后几分钟内，他独自一人出现在现场。我真诚地相信他和我一样无辜参与其中，但这些都是怀疑他的理由。

‘True,’ said my guardian. And he added, turning to me, ‘It would be doing him a very bad service, my dear, to shut our eyes to the truth in any of these respects.’
“是的，”我的监护人说。他转向我补充道：“亲爱的，如果我们对这些方面的真相视而不见，那对他来说是非常糟糕的。”

I felt, of course, that we must admit, not only to ourselves but to others, the full force of the circumstances against him. Yet I knew withal (I could not help saying) that their weight would not induce us to desert him in his need.
当然，我觉得我们不仅必须向自己而且向其他人承认，环境对他不利。然而我知道（我忍不住说）他们的重量不会导致我们在他需要时抛弃他。

‘Heaven forbid!’ returned my guardian. ‘We will stand by him, as he himself stood by the two poor creatures who are gone.’ He meant Mr. Gridley and the boy, to both of whom Mr. George had given shelter.
“天哪！”我的监护人回答道。 “我们会支持他，就像他本人支持这两个死去的可怜人一样。”他指的是格里德利先生和那个男孩，乔治先生曾庇护过他们俩。

Mr. Woodcourt then told us that the trooper’s man had been with him before day, after wandering about the streets all night like a distracted creature. That one of the trooper’s first anxieties was that we should not suppose him guilty. That he had charged his messenger to represent his perfect innocence with every solemn assurance be could send us. That Mr. Woodcourt had only quieted the man by undertaking to come to our house very early in the morning with these representations. He added that he was now upon his way to see the prisoner himself.
伍德考特先生然后告诉我们，那个警察的人在白天之前就和他在一起了，之前他像一个心烦意乱的人一样在街上闲逛了一整夜。这名士兵首先担心的就是我们不应该认定他有罪。他吩咐他的使者向我们发出每一份庄严的保证，以表明他完全清白。伍德考特先生承诺一大早带着这些陈述来到我们家，才让这个人安静下来。他补充说，他现在正在去见囚犯本人的路上。

My guardian said directly he would go too. Now, besides that I liked the retired soldier very much and that he liked me, I had that secret interest in what had happened which was only known to my guardian. I felt as if it came close and near to me. It seemed to become personally important to myself that the truth should be discovered and that no innocent people should be suspected, for suspicion, once run wild, might run wilder.
我的监护人直接说他也去。现在，除此之外，我非常喜欢那个退役士兵，他也喜欢我，我对所发生的事情有一种秘密的兴趣，只有我的监护人知道。我感觉它离我越来越近了。对我个人来说，发现真相、不怀疑任何无辜者似乎变得很重要，因为怀疑一旦猖獗，可能会更加猖獗。

In a word, I felt as if it were my duty and obligation to go with them. My guardian did not seek to dissuade me, and I went.
总之，我觉得和他们一起去是我的责任和义务。我的监护人没有劝阻我，我就去了。

It was a large prison with many courts and passages so like one another and so uniformly paved that I seemed to gain a new comprehension, as I passed along, of the fondness that solitary prisoners, shut up among the same staring walls from year to year, have had—as I have read—for a weed or a stray blade of grass. In an arched room by himself, like a cellar upstairs, with walls so glaringly white that they made the massive iron window-bars and iron-bound door even more profoundly black than they were, we found the trooper standing in a corner. He had been sitting on a bench there and had risen when he heard the locks and bolts turn.
那是一所大型监狱，有许多庭院和通道，彼此相似，铺设得如此均匀，当我经过时，我似乎对年复一年被关在同一堵凝视墙壁中的孤独囚犯的喜爱有了新的理解，正如我所读到的那样，已经找到了一根杂草或一片零散的草叶。在一个拱形房间里，他独自一人，就像楼上的地窖，墙壁洁白得耀眼，使得巨大的铁窗栏和铁门显得更加黑色，我们发现士兵站在一个角落里。他当时正坐在那儿的一张长凳上，听到门锁和插销转动的声音就站了起来。

When he saw us, he came forward a step with his usual heavy tread, and there stopped and made a slight bow. But as I still advanced, putting out my hand to him, he understood us in a moment.
当他看到我们时，他像往常一样沉重地向前迈出了一步，然后停了下来，微微鞠了一躬。但当我继续向前，向他伸出手时，他立刻就明白了我们的意思。

‘This is a load off my mind, I do assure you, miss and gentlemen,’ said he, saluting us with great heartiness and drawing a long breath. ‘And now I don’t so much care how it ends.’
“女士们，先生们，我向你们保证，这让我卸下了沉重的负担。”他说着，满怀热忱地向我们致意，长长地吸了一口气。 “现在我不太关心它如何结束。”

He scarcely seemed to be the prisoner. What with his coolness and his soldierly bearing, he looked far more like the prison guard.
他看上去根本不像是个囚犯。由于他的冷静和军人的举止，他看上去更像是一名狱警。

‘This is even a rougher place than my gallery to receive a lady in,’ said Mr. George, ‘but I know Miss Summerson will make the best of it.’ As he handed me to the bench on which he had been sitting, I sat down, which seemed to give him great satisfaction.
“这里比我的画廊更难接待一位女士，”乔治先生说，“但我知道萨默森小姐会充分利用它。”当他把我递到他一直坐的长凳上时，我坐下来，这似乎让他感到非常满意。

‘I thank you, miss,’ said he.
“我谢谢你，小姐，”他说。

‘Now, George,’ observed my guardian, ‘as we require no new assurances on your part, so I believe we need give you none on ours.’
“现在，乔治，”我的监护人说道，“因为我们不需要你做出新的保证，所以我相信我们不需要给你任何我们的保证。”

‘Not at all, sir. I thank you with all my heart. If I was not innocent of this crime, I couldn’t look at you and keep my secret to myself under the condescension of the present visit. I feel the present visit very much. I am not one of the eloquent sort, but I feel it, Miss Summerson and gentlemen, deeply.’
“一点也不，先生。我全心全意地感谢你。如果我不是无辜的，我就不能看着你，在这次访问的居高临下之下保守我的秘密。这次访问我感触很深。我不是那种善于言辞的人，但萨默森小姐和先生们，我深深地感受到了这一点。

He laid his hand for a moment on his broad chest and bent his bead to us. Although he squared himself again directly, he expressed a great amount of natural emotion by these simple means.
他把手放在宽阔的胸膛上一会儿，然后向我们弯下腰。虽然他再次直接摆正了自己，但通过这些简单的手段，他却表达出了大量自然的情感。

‘First,’ said my guardian, ‘can we do anything for your personal comfort, George?’
“首先，”我的监护人说，“为了您的个人舒适，我们可以做些什么吗，乔治？”

‘For which, sir?’ he inquired, clearing his throat.
“为了什么，先生？”他清了清喉咙问道。

‘For your personal comfort. Is there anything you want that would lessen the hardship of this confinement?’
“为了您个人的舒适。你想要什么东西来减轻这次监禁的痛苦吗？

‘Well, sir,’ replied George, after a little cogitation, ‘I am equally obliged to you, but tobacco being against the rules, I can’t say that there is.’
“好吧，先生，”乔治想了一会儿后回答道，“我同样对你表示感谢，但烟草是违反规定的，我不能说有。”

‘You will think of many little things perhaps, by and by. ‘Whenever you do, George, let us know.’
‘渐渐地，你也许会想到很多小事。 “乔治，无论什么时候，请告诉我们。”

‘Thank you, sir. Howsoever,’ observed Mr. George with one of his sunburnt smiles, ‘a man who has been knocking about the world in a vagabond kind of a way as long as I have gets on well enough in a place like the present, so far as that goes.’
'谢谢你，先生。不管怎样，”乔治先生带着晒伤的微笑说道，“只要我在像现在这样的地方过得足够好，他就一直以一种流浪者的方式在这个世界上徘徊。这些都不在了。'

‘Next, as to your case,’ observed my guardian.
“接下来，关于你的情况，”我的监护人说道。

‘Exactly so, sir,’ returned Mr. George, folding his arms upon his breast with perfect self-possession and a little curiosity.
“正是如此，先生，”乔治先生回答道，他把双臂抱在胸前，表现得十分镇定，还带着一点好奇。

‘How does it stand now?’
“现在怎么样？”

‘Why, sir, it is under remand at present. Bucket gives me to understand that he will probably apply for a series of remands from time to time until the case is more complete. How it is to be made more complete I don’t myself see, but I dare say Bucket will manage it somehow.’
“哎呀，先生，目前还押候审。巴克特让我了解到，他可能会不时申请一系列还押，直到案件更加完整。我自己不明白如何让它变得更加完整，但我敢说巴克特会以某种方式做到这一点。

‘Why, heaven save us, man,’ exclaimed my guardian, surprised into his old oddity and vehemence, ‘you talk of yourself as if you were somebody else!’
“哎呀，老天救救我们吧，伙计，”我的监护人惊呼道，他对自己过去的古怪和激烈感到惊讶，“你说自己就像是别人一样！”

‘No offence, sir,’ said Mr. George. ‘I am very sensible of your kindness. But I don’t see how an innocent man is to make up his mind to this kind of thing without knocking his head against the walls unless he takes it in that point of view.
“无意冒犯，先生，”乔治先生说。 ‘我非常感受到你的好意。但我不明白一个无辜的人如何能够在不碰壁的情况下做出这样的决定，除非他以这种观点来看待。

‘That is true enough to a certain extent,’ returned my guardian, softened. ‘But my good fellow, even an innocent man must take ordinary precautions to defend himself.’
“在某种程度上，这确实是真的。”我的监护人语气软化了。 “但是我的好朋友，即使是一个无辜的人也必须采取普通的预防措施来保护自己。”

‘Certainly, sir. And I have done so. I have stated to the magistrates, ‘Gentlemen, I am as innocent of this charge as yourselves; what has been stated against me in the way of facts is perfectly true; I know no more about it.’ I intend to continue stating that, sir. What more can I do? It’s the truth.’
'当然，先生。我已经这样做了。我已经对法官们说：‘先生们，我和你们一样对这项指控是无辜的；以事实的方式对我提出的指控是完全正确的；我对此一无所知。’我打算继续这样说，先生。我还能做什么？真的。'

‘But the mere truth won’t do,’ rejoined my guardian.
“但光靠事实是不行的，”我的监护人回答道。

‘Won’t it indeed., sir? Rather a bad look-out for me!’ Mr. George good-humouredly observed.
“确实如此吗，先生？ “对我来说真是太糟糕了！”乔治先生幽默地说道。

‘You must have a lawyer,’ pursued my guardian. ‘We must engage a good one for you.’
“你必须有一名律师，”我的监护人追问。 “我们必须为你聘请一位好人。”

‘I ask your pardon, sir,’ said Mr. George with a step backward. ‘I am equally obliged. But I must decidedly beg to be excused from anything of that sort.’
“请您原谅，先生，”乔治先生后退了一步说道。 ‘我同样有义务。但我必须坚决请求原谅我做这类事情。

‘You won’t have a lawyer?’
“你没有律师吗？”

‘No, sir.’ Mr. George shook his head in the most emphatic manner. ‘I thank you all the same, sir, but—no lawyer!’
“不，先生。”乔治先生用最坚决的方式摇摇头。 “我还是谢谢你，先生，但是——不是律师！”

‘Why not?’
'为什么不？'

‘I don’t take kindly to the breed,’ said Mr. George. ‘Gridley didn’t. And—if you’ll excuse my saying so much—I should hardly have thought you did yourself, sir.’
“我对这个品种不太友好，”乔治先生说。 '格里德利没有。而且——请原谅我说了这么多——我简直没想到你自己也这么做了，先生。”

‘That’s equity,’ my guardian explained, a little at a loss; ‘that’s equity, George.’
“这就是公平，”我的监护人解释道，有点不知所措。 “这就是公平，乔治。”

‘Is it, indeed, sir?’ returned the trooper in his off-hand manner. ‘I am not acquainted with those shades of names myself, but in a general way I object to the breed.’
“真的是这样吗，长官？”士兵随口答道。 “我自己并不熟悉这些名字，但总的来说，我反对这个品种。”

Unfolding his arms and changing his position, he stood with one massive hand upon the table and the other on his hip, as complete a picture of a man who was not to be moved from a fixed purpose as ever I saw. It was in vain that we all three talked to him and endeavoured to persuade him; he listened with that gentleness which went so well with his bluff bearing, but was evidently no more shaken by our representations that his place of confinement was.
他张开双臂，改变姿势，一只大手放在桌子上，另一只手放在臀部，这完全是我所见过的一个不肯放弃固定目标的男人的完整写照。我们三个人都跟他谈话并试图说服他，但都是徒劳。他听得很温柔，这与他的直言不讳的态度很相配，但显然他并没有像他的监禁地那样被我们的陈述所动摇。

‘Pray think, once more, Mr. George,’ said I. ‘Have you no wish in reference to your case?’
“请再想一想，乔治先生，”我说，“你对你的案子没有任何愿望吗？”

‘I certainly could wish it to be tried, miss,’ he returned, ‘by court-martial; but that is out of the question, as I am well aware. If you will be so good as to favour me with your attention for a couple of minutes, miss, not more, I’ll endeavour to explain myself as clearly as I can.’
“我当然希望通过军事法庭来审判，小姐，”他回答道。但据我所知，这是不可能的。如果您愿意花几分钟的时间关注我，小姐，不要再多了，我会尽力尽可能清楚地解释自己。

He looked at us all three in turn, shook his head a little as if he were adjusting it in the stock and collar of a tight uniform, and after a moment’s reflection went on.
他依次看着我们三个人，轻轻摇了摇头，仿佛正在调整紧身制服的枪托和领子，沉思了一会儿之后继续说道。

‘You see, miss, I have been handcuffed and taken into custody and brought here. I am a marked and disgraced man, and here I am. My shooting gallery is rummaged, high and low, by Bucket; such property as I have—‘tis small—is turned this way and that till it don’t know itself; and (as aforesaid) here I am! I don’t particular complain of that. Though I am in these present quarters through no immediately preceding fault of mine, I can very well understand that if I hadn’t gone into the vagabond way in my youth, this wouldn’t have happened. It HAS happened. Then comes the question how to meet it”
“你看，小姐，我被戴上手铐并被拘留并带到这里。我是一个被标记和耻辱的人，而我就在这里。我的射击场被巴克特翻遍了；我所拥有的财产——虽然很小——被这样或那样地转动，直到它不认识自己为止； （如上所述）我在这里！我对此并不特别抱怨。虽然我现在的处境并不是因为我之前的过失，但我很清楚，如果我年轻时没有走上流浪之路，就不会发生这样的事情。它已经发生了。那么问题来了，如何应对”

He rubbed his swarthy forehead for a moment with a good-humoured look and said apologetically, ‘I am such a short-winded talker that I must think a bit.’ Having thought a bit, he looked up again and resumed.
他揉了揉黝黑的额头，表情好笑，抱歉道：“我说话太短，必须想一想。”想了想，他又抬起头，继续说道。

‘How to meet it. Now, the unfortunate deceased was himself a lawyer and had a pretty tight hold of me. I don’t wish to rake up his ashes, but he had, what I should call if he was living, a devil of a tight hold of me. I don’t like his trade the better for that. If I had kept clear of his trade, I should have kept outside this place. But that’s not what I mean. Now, suppose I had killed him. Suppose I really had discharged into his body any one of those pistols recently fired off that Bucket has found at my place, and dear me, might have found there any day since it has been my place. What should I have done as soon as I was hard and fast here? Got a lawyer.’
‘如何去迎接它。现在，不幸的死者本身就是一名律师，并且对我的控制非常严格。我不想捡起他的骨灰，但他——如果他还活着，我应该这么称呼——一个紧紧抓住我的魔鬼。我因此更不喜欢他的交易。如果我不参与他的交易，我就应该远离这个地方。但这不是我的意思。现在，假设我杀了他。假设我真的把巴克特在我家发现的那些最近发射的手枪中的任何一支射进了他的身体，亲爱的我，自从那是我的家以来，随时可能会在那里找到。当我在这里硬着头皮的时候，我应该做什么呢？有律师了。

He stopped on hearing some one at the locks and bolts and did not resume until the door had been opened and was shut again. For what purpose opened, I will mention presently.
听到有人敲门锁的声音，他停了下来，直到门被打开又关上才继续。出于什么目的而开设，我稍后会提到。

‘I should have got a lawyer, and he would have said (as I have often read in the newspapers), ‘My client says nothing, my client reserves his defence’: my client this, that, and t’other. Well, ‘tis not the custom of that breed to go straight, according to my opinion, or to think that other men do. Say I am innocent and I get a lawyer. He would be as likely to believe me guilty as not; perhaps more. What would he do, whether or not? Act as if I was— shut my mouth up, tell me not to commit myself, keep circumstances back, chop the evidence small, quibble, and get me off perhaps! But, Miss Summerson, do I care for getting off in that way; or would I rather be hanged in my own way—if you’ll excuse my mentioning anything so disagreeable to a lady?’
“我应该找一位律师，他会说（正如我经常在报纸上读到的那样），‘我的委托人什么也没说，我的委托人保留他的辩护’：我的委托人这样、那样、那样。嗯，根据我的观点，或者认为其他人也这样做，这不是这个品种的习惯。说我是无辜的，我就请律师。他可能认为我有罪，也可能认为我无罪。也许更多。无论是否，他会做什么？表现得好像我是——闭嘴，告诉我不要做出承诺，隐瞒情况，把证据削减，狡辩，也许然后让我离开！但是，萨默森小姐，我愿意这样下车吗？或者我宁愿以我自己的方式被绞死——如果你能原谅我提到任何令一位女士如此不愉快的事情吗？

He had warmed into his subject now, and was under no further necessity to wait a bit.
他现在已经熟悉了自己的主题，不需要再等待了。

‘I would rather be hanged in my own way. And I mean to be! I don’t intend to say,’ looking round upon us with his powerful arms akimbo and his dark eyebrows raised, ‘that I am more partial to being hanged than another man. What I say is, I must come off clear and full or not at all. Therefore, when I hear stated against me what is true, I say it’s true; and when they tell me, ‘whatever you say will be used,’ I tell them I don’t mind that; I mean it to be used. If they can’t make me innocent out of the whole truth, they are not likely to do it out of anything less, or anything else. And if they are, it’s worth nothing to me.’
“我宁愿以我自己的方式被绞死。我也想成为这样的人！我不想说，”他有力的双手叉腰，眉毛扬起，环顾我们，“我比其他人更愿意被绞死。我要说的是，我必须表现得清晰、饱满，否则就根本没有。因此，当我听到对我不利的说法时，我说它是真的；当他们告诉我“无论你说什么都会被使用”时，我告诉他们我不介意；我的意思是要使用它。如果他们不能从全部真相中让我清白，他们就不太可能用更少的东西或其他任何东西来做到这一点。如果是的话，那对我来说毫无价值。

Taking a pace or two over the stone floor, he came back to the table and finished what he had to say.
他在石头地板上走了一两步，回到桌边，讲完了他要说的话。

‘I thank you, miss and gentlemen both, many times for your attention, and many times more for your interest. That’s the plain state of the matter as it points itself out to a mere trooper with a blunt broadsword kind of a mind. I have never done well in life beyond my duty as a soldier, and if the worst comes after all, I shall reap pretty much as I have sown. When I got over the first crash of being seized as a murderer—it don’t take a rover who has knocked about so much as myself so very long to recover from a crash—I worked my way round to what you find me now. As such I shall remain. No relations will be disgraced by me or made unhappy for me, and—and that’s all I’ve got to say.’
“女士们，先生们，我多次感谢你们的关注，更多次感谢你们的兴趣。这就是事情的简单情况，因为它向一个头脑简单的士兵表明了这一点。除了作为一名士兵的职责之外，我一生中从未做过任何好事，如果最坏的情况最终发生，我将收获与我种下的一样多。当我第一次从被当作杀人犯抓获的事故中恢复过来时——一个像我这样颠簸了这么久的漫游者不需要很长时间才能从事故中恢复过来——我努力地找到了你现在找到的我。因此我将留下来。没有任何亲戚会因我而蒙羞或为我感到不高兴，而且——这就是我要说的。

The door had been opened to admit another soldier-looking man of less prepossessing appearance at first sight and a weather-tanned, bright-eyed wholesome woman with a basket, who, from her entrance, had been exceedingly attentive to all Mr. George had said. Mr. George had received them with a familiar nod and a friendly look, but without any more particular greeting in the midst of his address. He now shook them cordially by the hand and said, ‘Miss Summerson and gentlemen, this is an old comrade of mine, Matthew Bagnet. And this is his wife, Mrs. Bagnet.’
门打开了，进来了另一个乍一看不太讨人喜欢的军人模样的男人，还有一个提着篮子、皮肤晒得黝黑、眼睛明亮、健康的女人，从她进来时，她就对乔治先生的一切都非常细心。说。乔治先生以熟悉的点头和友好的眼神接待了他们，但在讲话中没有任何更特别的问候。他现在亲切地与他们握手，说道：“萨默森小姐和先生们，这是我的一位老战友，马修·巴格内特。”这是他的妻子，巴格内特夫人。

Mr. Bagnet made us a stiff military bow, and Mrs. Bagnet dropped us a curtsy.
巴格内特先生向我们行了一个僵硬的军事鞠躬，巴格内特夫人向我们行了屈膝礼。

‘Real good friends of mine, they are,’ sald Mr. George. ‘It was at their house I was taken.’
“他们是我真正的好朋友，”乔治先生说道。 “我是在他们家被带走的。”

‘With a second-hand wiolinceller,’ Mr. Bagnet put in, twitching his head angrily. ‘Of a good tone. For a friend. That money was no object to.’
“用一把二手小提琴，”巴格内特先生插话道，愤怒地扭动着头。 ‘语气很好。为了一个朋友。这笔钱是没有异议的。

‘Mat,’ said Mr. George, ‘you have heard pretty well all I have been saying to this lady and these two gentlemen. I know it meets your approval?’
“马特，”乔治先生说，“我对这位女士和两位先生所说的一切你都听得很清楚了。我知道你同意吗？

Mr. Bagnet, after considering, referred the point to his wife. ‘Old girl,’ said he. ‘Tell him. Whether or not. It meets my approval.’
巴格内特先生考虑之后，将这一点转告给了他的妻子。 “老姑娘，”他说。 '告诉他。无论是否。它符合我的认可。

‘Why, George,’ exclaimed Mrs. Bagnet, who had been unpacking her basket, in which there was a piece of cold pickled pork, a little tea and sugar, and a brown loaf, ‘you ought to know it don’t. You ought to know it’s enough to drive a person wild to hear you. You won’t be got off this way, and you won’t be got off that way—what do you mean by such picking and choosing? It’s stuff and nonsense, George.’
“哎呀，乔治，”巴格尼特太太大声说道，她正在打开篮子，里面有一块冷腌猪肉、一点茶和糖，还有一块棕色面包，“你应该知道不是这样的。”你应该知道，听你说话就足以让一个人发疯。这样也过不去，那样也过不去，什么叫挑挑拣拣呢？这是胡说八道，乔治。

‘Don’t be severe upon me in my misfortunes, Mrs. Bagnet,’ said the trooper lightly.
“巴格内特夫人，请不要在我遭遇不幸时对我严厉，”士兵轻声说道。

‘Oh! Bother your misfortunes,’ cried Mrs. Bagnet, ‘if they don’t make you more reasonable than that comes to. I never was so ashamed in my life to hear a man talk folly as I have been to hear you talk this day to the present company. Lawyers? Why, what but too many cooks should hinder you from having a dozen lawyers if the gentleman recommended them to you”
'哦！巴格内特夫人叫道，“如果你的不幸不能让你比现在更理智，那就去管你的不幸吧。”我这辈子从来没有像今天听到你对现在的公司说话那样感到羞愧，因为听到一个人说蠢话。律师？哎呀，如果这位先生向你推荐了十几个律师，那么太多的厨师就会阻碍你聘请他们。”

‘This is a very sensible woman,’ said my guardian. ‘I hope you will persuade him, Mrs. Bagnet.’
“这是一个非常明智的女人，”我的监护人说。 “我希望你能说服他，巴格内特夫人。”

‘Persuade him, sir?’ she returned. ‘Lord bless you, no. You don’t know George. Now, there!’ Mrs. Bagnet left her basket to point him out with both her bare brown hands. ‘There he stands! As self-willed and as determined a man, in the wrong way, as ever put a human creature under heaven out of patience! You could as soon take up and shoulder an eight and forty pounder by your own strength as turn that man when he has got a thing into his head and fixed it there. Why, don’t I know him!’ cried Mrs. Bagnet. ‘Don’t I know you, George! You don’t mean to set up for a new character with ME after all these years, I hope?’
“说服他吗，先生？”她回答道。 ‘愿上帝保佑你，不。你不了解乔治。现在，就在那里！”巴格内特太太离开篮子，用她那双裸露的棕色双手指着他。 ‘他站在那里！一个任性而坚定的人，以错误的方式，让天下的人类失去了耐心！你可以用自己的力量拿起并扛起一门八四十磅的炮，就像当那个人把一个东西塞进他的脑袋并将其固定在那里时转动他一样。哎呀，我不认识他！”巴格尼特太太喊道。 “我不认识你吗，乔治！我希望你不会是想在这么多年之后和我一起创造一个新角色吧？

Her friendly indignation had an exemplary effect upon her husband, who shook his head at the trooper several times as a silent recommendation to him to yield. Between whiles, Mrs. Bagnet looked at me; and I understood from the play of her eyes that she wished me to do something, though I did not comprehend what.
她友好的愤慨对她的丈夫起到了模范作用，他多次向警察摇摇头，无声地建议他屈服。巴格内特夫人不时地看着我。从她的眼神中我明白她希望我做点什么，尽管我不明白是什么。

‘But I have given up talking to you, old fellow, years and years,’ said Mrs. Bagnet as she blew a little dust off the pickled pork, looking at me again; ‘and when ladies and gentlemen know you as well as I do, they’ll give up talking to you too. If you are not too headstrong to accept of a bit of dinner, here it is.’
“但是我已经放弃和你说话了，老伙计，很多年了。”巴格尼特太太一边说，一边吹掉腌猪肉上的灰尘，再次看着我。 “当女士们先生们像我一样了解你时，他们也会放弃与你交谈。如果你不是太任性而无法接受一点晚餐，那就来吧。

‘I accept it with many thanks,’ returned the trooper.
“我非常感谢地接受它，”士兵回答道。

‘Do you though, indeed?’ said Mrs. Bagnet, continuing to grumble on good-humouredly. ‘I’m sure I’m surprised at that I wonder you don’t starve in your own way also. It would only be like you. Perhaps you’ll set your mind upon THAT next.’ Here she again looked at me, and I now perceived from her glances at the door and at me, by turns, that she wished us to retire and to await her following us outside the prison. Communicating this by similar means to my guardian and Mr. Woodcourt, I rose.
“你确实这么认为吗？”巴格内特太太继续幽默地抱怨着。 “我确信我很惊讶你不会也以自己的方式挨饿。只会像你一样。也许你接下来会考虑这个。”说到这里，她再次看着我，从她轮流扫视门口和扫视我的眼神中，我看出她希望我们退出，并在门外等她跟着我们。监狱。我用类似的方式向我的监护人和伍德考特先生传达了这一点，然后站了起来。

‘We hope you will think better of it, Mr. George,’ said I, ‘and we shall come to see you again, trusting to find you more reasonable.’
“我们希望你能考虑清楚，乔治先生，”我说，“我们会再次来看你，相信会发现你更通情达理。”

‘More grateful, Miss Summerson, you can’t find me,’ he returned.
“更感激的是，萨默森小姐，你找不到我，”他回答道。

‘But more persuadable we can, I hope,’ said I. ‘And let me entreat you to consider that the clearing up of this mystery and the discovery of the real perpetrator of this deed may be of the last importance to others besides yourself.’
“但我希望我们能更容易被说服，”我说，“让我恳请你考虑一下，解开这个谜团并发现这起事件的真正肇事者，对于你以外的其他人来说可能是最重要的。” '

He heard me respectfully but without much heeding these words, which I spoke a little turned from him, already on my way to the door; he was observing (this they afterwards told me) my height and figure, which seemed to catch his attention all at once.
他恭敬地听我说话，但并没有太在意我说的话，我在走向门口的路上稍微转过身去。他正在观察（他们后来告诉我的）我的身高和身材，这似乎一下子引起了他的注意。

‘‘Tis curious,’ said he. ‘And yet I thought so at the time!’
“这很好奇，”他说。 “但我当时也是这么想的！”

My guardian asked him what he meant.
我的监护人问他这是什么意思。

‘Why, sir,’ he answered, ‘when my ill fortune took me to the dead man’s staircase on the night of his murder, I saw a shape so like Miss Summerson’s go by me in the dark that I had half a mind to speak to it.’
“为什么，先生，”他回答道，“在他被谋杀的那天晚上，当我的厄运把我带到死者的楼梯时，我看到一个像萨默森小姐那样的人影在黑暗中从我身边经过，我几乎不想说话。到它。

For an instant I felt such a shudder as I never felt before or since and hope I shall never feel again.
有那么一瞬间，我感到前所未有的颤抖，希望以后再也不会有这种感觉了。

‘It came downstairs as I went up,’ said the trooper, ‘and crossed the moonlighted window with a loose black mantle on; I noticed a deep fringe to it. However, it has nothing to do with the present subject, excepting that Miss Summerson looked so like it at the moment that it came into my head.’
“我上楼的时候，它也下了楼，”士兵说，“披着一件宽松的黑色斗篷，穿过了月光下的窗户；我注意到它有一个很深的边缘。然而，这与现在的主题无关，只是萨默森小姐此刻看起来很像，以至于它出现在我的脑海中。

I cannot separate and define the feelings that arose in me after this; it is enough that the vague duty and obligation I had felt upon me from the first of following the investigation was, without my distinctly daring to ask myself any question, increased, and that I was indignantly sure of there being no possibility of a reason for my being afraid.
我无法区分和定义此后我内心产生的感受；我从调查一开始就感受到的模糊的责任和义务就已经足够了，尽管我并没有明确地敢于问自己任何问题，但我愤怒地确信没有任何理由可以这样做。我害怕。

We three went out of the prison and walked up and down at some short distance from the gate, which was in a retired place. We had not waited long when Mr. and Mrs. Bagnet came out too and quickly joined us.
我们三人出了监狱，在离大门不远的地方走来走去，大门是一个僻静的地方。没等多久，巴格尼特夫妇也出来了，很快就加入了我们。

There was a tear in each of Mrs. Bagnet’s eyes, and her face was flushed and hurried. ‘I didn’t let George see what I thought about it, you know, miss,’ was her first remark when she came up, ‘but he’s in a bad way, poor old fellow!’
巴格内特太太的眼里都含着泪水，她的脸涨得通红，神情匆忙。 “我没有让乔治知道我对此的想法，你知道，小姐，”她走上来时的第一句话是，“但他的情况很糟糕，可怜的老家伙！”

‘Not with care and prudence and good help,’ said my guardian.
我的监护人说：“没有小心、谨慎和良好的帮助。”

‘A gentleman like you ought to know best, sir,’ returned Mrs. Bagnet, hurriedly drying her eyes on the hem of her grey cloak, ‘but I am uneasy for him. He has been so careless and said so much that he never meant. The gentlemen of the juries might not understand him as Lignum and me do. And then such a number of circumstances have happened bad for him, and such a number of people will be brought forward to speak against him, and Bucket is so deep.’
“像您这样的绅士应该最清楚，先生，”巴格内特夫人回答道，她急忙擦干灰色斗篷下摆上的眼睛，“但我为他感到不安。他真是太粗心了，说了那么多根本就不是本意的事情。评审团的先生们可能不像我和 Lignum 那样理解他。然后发生了这么多对他不利的情况，就会有这么多人站出来反对他，而巴克特的根深蒂固。

‘With a second-hand wiolinceller. And said he played the fife. When a boy,’ Mr. Bagnet added with great solemnity.
“有一个二手小提琴手。并说他吹横笛。当我还是个孩子的时候，”巴格内特先生非常严肃地补充道。

‘Now, I tell you, miss,’ said Mrs. Bagnet; ‘and when I say miss, I mean all! Just come into the corner of the wall and I’ll tell you!’
“现在，我告诉你，小姐，”巴格内特太太说。 ‘当我说小姐时，我指的是一切！只要走到墙角，我就告诉你！

Mrs. Bagnet hurried us into a more secluded place and was at first too breathless to proceed, occasioning Mr. Bagnet to say, ‘Old girl! Tell ‘em!’
巴格尼特夫人催促我们到一个更僻静的地方，起初气喘吁吁，无法继续前进，巴格尼特先生说：“老姑娘！”告诉他们！'

‘Why, then, miss,’ the old girl proceeded, untying the strings of her bonnet for more air, ‘you could as soon move Dover Castle as move George on this point unless you had got a new power to move him with. And I have got it!’
“那么，小姐，”老女孩继续说道，解开帽子的带子呼吸更多的空气，“在这一点上，你可以像移动乔治一样移动多佛城堡，除非你有一种新的力量来移动他。我已经得到了！

‘You are a jewel of a woman,’ said my guardian. ‘Go on!’
“你是女人的瑰宝，”我的监护人说。 '继续！'

‘Now, I tell you, miss,’ she proceeded, clapping her hands in her hurry and agitation a dozen times in every sentence, ‘that what he says concerning no relations is all bosh. They don’t know of him, but he does know of them. He has said more to me at odd times than to anybody else, and it warn’t for nothing that he once spoke to my Woolwich about whitening and wrinkling mothers’ heads. For fifty pounds he had seen his mother that day. She’s alive and must be brought here straight!’
“现在，我告诉你，小姐，”她接着说道，每句话都匆忙而激动地拍了十几次手，“他所说的与没有亲戚关系的事情都是胡说八道。他们不认识他，但他认识他们。他在奇怪的时候对我说的比对其他任何人都多，而且他曾经对我的伍尔维奇谈论过美白和皱纹母亲的头，这并不是没有道理的。那天他花了五十英镑才见到了他的母亲。她还活着，必须直接带来这里！”

Instantly Mrs. Bagnet put some pins into her mouth and began pinning up her skirts all round a little higher than the level of her grey cloak, which she accomplished with surpassing dispatch and dexterity.
巴格尼特太太立刻把一些别针放进嘴里，开始把裙子周围别起来，比她的灰色斗篷高一点，她以超乎寻常的敏捷和灵巧完成了这一任务。

‘Lignum,’ said Mrs. Bagnet, ‘you take care of the children, old man, and give me the umbrella! I’m away to Lincolnshire to bring that old lady here.’
“Lignum，”巴格内特太太说，“你照顾好孩子们，老人，把伞给我！”我要去林肯郡把那位老太太带到这里来。

‘But, bless the woman,’ cried my guardian with his hand in his pocket, ‘how is she going? What money has she got?’
“但是，上帝保佑那个女人，”我的监护人把手插在口袋里喊道，“她怎么样了？”她有什么钱？

Mrs. Bagnet made another application to her skirts and brought forth a leathern purse in which she hastily counted over a few shillings and which she then shut up with perfect satisfaction.
巴格尼特太太又在裙子上抹了一下，拿出一个皮钱包，她匆匆数了数，里面有几先令，然后心满意足地把它关上。

‘Never you mind for me, miss. I’m a soldier’s wife and accustomed to travel my own way. Lignum, old boy,’ kissing him, ‘one for yourself, three for the children. Now I’m away into Lincolnshire after George’s mother!’
‘别介意我，小姐。我是一名士兵的妻子，习惯按自己的方式旅行。利格纳姆，老男孩，”吻着他，“一个给你自己，三个给孩子们。现在我要去林肯郡追寻乔治的母亲了！

And she actually set off while we three stood looking at one another lost in amazement. She actually trudged away in her grey cloak at a sturdy pace, and turned the corner, and was gone.
她真的出发了，我们三个站在那里，面面相觑，惊讶不已。她实际上穿着灰色斗篷，迈着稳健的步伐，拐过街角，就不见了。

‘Mr. Bagnet,’ said my guardian. ‘Do you mean to let her go in that way?’
'先生。巴内特，”我的监护人说。 “你打算就这样放她走吗？”

‘Can’t help it,’ he returned. ‘Made her way home once from another quarter of the world. With the same grey cloak. And same umbrella. Whatever the old girl says, do. Do it! Whenever the old girl says, I’LL do it. She does it.’
“没办法，”他回答道。 “她曾经从世界的另一个角落回家过一次。搭配同样的灰色斗篷。还有同一把伞。老姑娘说什么，就做什么。做吧！只要老姑娘说，我就照做。她做到了。

‘Then she is as honest and genuine as she looks,’ rejoined my guardian, ‘and it is impossible to say more for her.’
“那么，她就像她看起来那样诚实和真诚，”我的监护人回答道，“对她来说，没有什么可以说的了。”

‘She’s Colour-Sergeant of the Nonpareil battalion,’ said Mr. Bagnet, looking at us over his shoulder as he went his way also. ‘And there’s not such another. But I never own to it before her. Discipline must be maintained.’
“她是无与伦比营的上士，”巴格内特先生一边说，一边也走过去，回头看着我们。 ‘而且没有这样的另一个。但我从来没有在她面前承认过这一点。必须维持纪律。”

CHAPTER LIII
第十三章


The Track
轨道

Mr. Bucket and his fat forefinger are much in consultation together under existing circumstances. When Mr. Bucket has a matter of this pressing interest under his consideration, the fat forefinger seems to rise, to the dignity of a familiar demon. He puts it to his ears, and it whispers information; he puts it to his lips, and it enjoins him to secrecy; he rubs it over his nose, and it sharpens his scent; he shakes it before a guilty man, and it charms him to his destruction. The Augurs of the Detective Temple invariably predict that when Mr. Bucket and that finger are in much conference, a terrible avenger will be heard of before long.
巴克特先生和他的胖食指在现有情况下经常一起协商。当巴克特先生考虑一件如此紧迫的事情时，他那根肥大的食指似乎就竖了起来，呈现出一种熟悉的恶魔般的尊严。他把它放在耳边，它就会低声传达信息；他把它放到嘴边，它要求他保密。他把它擦在鼻子上，它使他的气味变得更加刺鼻。他在一个有罪的人面前摇动它，它会吸引他走向毁灭。神殿侦探的占卜师们总是预测，当巴克特先生和那个手指进行多次会议时，不久就会听到可怕的复仇者的消息。

Otherwise mildly studious in his observation of human nature, on the whole a benignant philosopher not disposed to be severe upon the follies of mankind, Mr. Bucket pervades a vast number of houses and strolls about an infinity of streets, to outward appearance rather languishing for want of an object. He is in the friendliest condition towards his species and will drink with most of them. He is free with his money, affable in his manners, innocent in his conversation—but through the placid stream of his life there glides an under-current of forefinger.
巴克特先生在对人性的观察上还算勤奋，总的来说，他是一位仁慈的哲学家，不打算严厉批评人类的愚蠢行为，他走遍了无数的房屋，漫步在无数的街道上，从外表上看，他对人类的愚蠢行为感到十分沮丧。想要一个物体。他对他的物种处于最友好的状态，并且会与大多数物种一起喝酒。他用钱自由，举止和蔼可亲，谈吐纯真——但在他平静的生活中，却有一股食指的暗流在流淌。

Time and place cannot bind Mr. Bucket. Like man in the abstract, he is here to-day and gone to-morrow—but, very unlike man indeed, he is here again the next day. This evening he will be casually looking into the iron extinguishers at the door of Sir Leicester Dedlock’s house in town; and to-morrow morning he will be walking on the leads at Chesney Wold, where erst the old man walked whose ghost is propitiated with a hundred guineas. Drawers, desks, pockets, all things belonging to him, Mr. Bucket examines. A few hours afterwards, he and the Roman will be alone together comparing forefingers.
时间和地点不能束缚巴克特先生。就像抽象的人一样，他今天在这里，明天就离开了——但是，与人非常不同的是，他第二天又在这里。今晚，他将漫不经心地查看镇上莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士家门口的铁制灭火器。明天早上，他将沿着切斯尼沃尔德的路行走，老人曾经走过的地方，他的鬼魂被一百几尼安抚了。抽屉、桌子、口袋，所有属于他的东西，巴克特先生检查了一下。几个小时后，他和罗马人将单独在一起比较食指。

It is likely that these occupations are irreconcilable with home enjoyment, but it is certain that Mr. Bucket at present does not go home. Though in general he highly appreciates the society of Mrs. Bucket—a lady of a natural detective genius, which if it had been improved by professional exercise, might have done great things, but which has paused at the level of a clever amateur—he holds himself aloof from that dear solace. Mrs. Bucket is dependent on their lodger (fortunately an amiable lady in whom she takes an interest) for companionship and conversation.
这些职业很可能与家庭享受是不可调和的，但可以肯定的是，巴克特先生目前不回家。虽然总的来说，他非常欣赏巴克特夫人的交往——一位具有天生侦探天才的女士，如果通过专业锻炼得到提高，可能会做出伟大的事情，但她的水平还停留在聪明的业余爱好者的水平——他他让自己远离那亲爱的安慰。巴克特太太依赖她们的房客（幸运的是，她感兴趣的是一位和蔼可亲的女士）的陪伴和交谈。

A great crowd assembles in Lincoln’s Inn Fields on the day of the funeral. Sir Leicester Dedlock attends the ceremony in person; strictly speaking, there are only three other human followers, that is to say, Lord Doodle, William Buffy, and the debilitated cousin (thrown in as a make-weight), but the amount of inconsolable carriages is immense. The peerage contributes more four-wheeled affliction than has ever been seen in that neighbourhood. Such is the assemblage of armorial bearings on coach panels that the Herald’s College might be supposed to have lost its father and mother at a blow. The Duke of Foodle sends a splendid pile of dust and ashes, with silver wheel-boxes, patent axles, all the last improvements, and three bereaved worms, six feet high, holding on behind, in a bunch of woe. All the state coachmen in London seem plunged into mourning; and if that dead old man of the rusty garb be not beyond a taste in horseflesh (which appears impossible), it must be highly gratified this day.
葬礼当天，一大群人聚集在林肯客栈球场。莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士亲自出席仪式；严格来说，人类追随者只有三个，即杜多勋爵、威廉·巴菲和虚弱的表弟（作为补充体重），但令人伤心的车厢数量却是巨大的。贵族带来的四轮痛苦比该地区以往任何时候都多。车厢面板上的徽章轴承的组合使得先驱学院可能一下子就失去了父亲和母亲。福德尔公爵送来了一堆华丽的灰尘和灰烬，还有银色的轮箱、专利车轴、所有最后的改进，还有三只六英尺高的失去亲人的蠕虫，在一堆悲伤中紧握在后面。伦敦所有的州车夫似乎都陷入了哀悼之中。如果那个穿着生锈衣服的死去的老人没有尝过马肉的味道（这似乎是不可能的），那么今天一定会非常高兴。

Quiet among the undertakers and the equipages and the calves of so many legs all steeped in grief, Mr. Bucket sits concealed in one of the inconsolable carriages and at his ease surveys the crowd through the lattice blinds. He has a keen eye for a crowd—as for what not?—and looking here and there, now from this side of the carriage, now from the other, now up at the house windows, now along the people’s heads, nothing escapes him.
巴克特先生躲在一辆令人伤心的车厢里，在殡仪员、马具和那么多沉浸在悲痛中的小腿之间安静地坐着，透过格子百叶窗悠闲地观察着人群。他对人群有敏锐的洞察力——至于什么不是？——他东张西望，时而从马车的这一侧，时而从另一侧，时而抬头望向房屋的窗户，时而顺着人们的头顶，没有什么能逃过他的眼睛。 。

‘And there you are, my partner, eh?’ says Mr. Bucket to himself, apostrophizing Mrs. Bucket, stationed, by his favour, on the steps of the deceased’s house. ‘And so you are. And so you are! And very well indeed you are looking, Mrs. Bucket!’
“你就在那里，我的搭档，是吗？”巴克特先生自言自语地说，并省略了巴克特太太，巴克特太太在他的恩惠下驻扎在死者房子的台阶上。 ‘你也是。你也是！巴克特太太，你确实在看！

The procession has not started yet, but is waiting for the cause of its assemblage to be brought out. Mr. Bucket, in the foremost emblazoned carriage, uses his two fat forefingers to hold the lattice a hair’s breadth open while he looks.
游行还没有开始，正在等待集合原因的公布。巴克特先生坐在最前面的一辆装饰精美的马车上，他一边看，一边用他的两个粗大的食指将格子撑开一个头发丝的宽度。

And it says a great deal for his attachment, as a husband, that he is still occupied with Mrs. B. ‘There you are, my partner, eh?’ he murmuringly repeats. ‘And our lodger with you. I’m taking notice of you, Mrs. Bucket; I hope you’re all right in your health, my dear!’
作为一个丈夫，他仍然对 B 太太很着迷，这充分说明了他的依恋。“你在这儿，我的伴侣，是吗？”他低声重复道。 “还有我们的房客和你在一起。我注意到你了，巴克特太太；我希望你身体健康，亲爱的！

Not another word does Mr. Bucket say, but sits with most attentive eyes until the sacked depository of noble secrets is brought down— Where are all those secrets now? Does he keep them yet? Did they fly with him on that sudden journey?—and until the procession moves, and Mr. Bucket’s view is changed. After which he composes himself for an easy ride and takes note of the fittings of the carriage in case he should ever find such knowledge useful.
巴克特先生一言不发，只是用最专注的目光坐着，直到被洗劫的高贵秘密的储藏室被拆毁——那些秘密现在在哪里？他还保留着它们吗？他们在那次突然的旅程中和他一起飞行了吗？——直到队伍移动，巴克特先生的观点改变了。之后，他平静下来，准备轻松骑行，并记下马车的配件，以防万一他发现这些知识有用。

Contrast enough between Mr. Tulkinghorn shut up in his dark carriage and Mr. Bucket shut up in HIS. Between the immeasurable track of space beyond the little wound that has thrown the one into the fixed sleep which jolts so heavily over the stones of the streets, and the narrow track of blood which keeps the other in the watchful state expressed in every hair of his head! But it is all one to both; neither is troubled about that.
关在黑暗马车里的图金霍恩先生和关在他的车厢里的巴克特先生形成了鲜明的对比。在小伤口之外的不可估量的空间轨迹之间，小伤口使一个人陷入固定的睡眠，在街道的石头上剧烈摇晃，而狭窄的血迹使另一个人保持警惕状态，表现在他的每一根头发上头！但这对双方来说都是一回事；两人都不为此烦恼。

Mr. Bucket sits out the procession in his own easy manner and glides from the carriage when the opportunity he has settled with himself arrives. He makes for Sir Leicester Dedlock’s, which is at present a sort of home to him, where he comes and goes as he likes at all hours’, where he is always welcome and made much of, where he knows the whole establishment, and walks in an atmosphere of mysterious greatness.
巴克特先生以他自己轻松的方式坐在队伍外面，当他与自己达成一致的机会到来时，他就从马车上滑下来。他前往莱斯特戴德洛克爵士的家，那里目前对他来说有点像家，他随时都可以来去自如，在那里他总是受到欢迎和重视，在那里他了解整个机构，并且散步在一种神秘伟大的气氛中。

No knocking or ringing for Mr. Bucket. He has caused himself to be provided with a key and can pass in at his pleasure. As he is crossing the hall, Mercury informs him, ‘Here’s another letter for you, Mr. Bucket, come by post,’ and gives it him.
巴克特先生不准敲门或按铃。他给自己准备了一把钥匙，可以随心所欲地进去。当他穿过大厅时，墨丘利告诉他：“这是给你的另一封信，巴克特先生，请邮寄过来。”然后交给了​​他。

‘Another one, eh?’ says Mr. Bucket.
“再来一张，嗯？”巴克特先生说。

If Mercury should chance to be possessed by any lingering curiosity as to Mr. Bucket’s letters, that wary person is not the man to gratify it. Mr. Bucket looks at him as if his face were a vista of some miles in length and he were leisurely contemplating the same.
如果水星碰巧对巴克特先生的信产生了任何挥之不去的好奇心，那么那个谨慎的人就不是满足这种好奇心的人。巴克特先生看着他，仿佛他的脸是几英里长的远景，他正在悠闲地沉思着同样的事情。

‘Do you happen to carry a box?’ says Mr. Bucket.
“你碰巧带着一个盒子吗？”巴克特先生说。

Unfortunately Mercury is no snuff-taker.
不幸的是，水星并不是一个贪吃的人。

‘Could you fetch me a pinch from anywheres?’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Thankee. It don’t matter what it is; I’m not particular as to the kind. Thankee!’
“你能从任何地方给我取一点吗？”巴克特先生说。 “谢谢。”它是什么并不重要；我对那种类型并不特别。谢谢！’

Having leisurely helped himself from a canister borrowed from somebody downstairs for the purpose, and having made a considerable show of tasting it, first with one side of his nose and then with the other, Mr. Bucket, with much deliberation, pronounces it of the right sort and goes on, letter in hand.
巴克特先生悠闲地从楼下某人借来的一个罐子里拿了一杯，并做了相当多的品尝，先用一侧鼻子，然后用另一侧，巴克特先生经过深思熟虑，宣布这是正确分类并继续，手里拿着信。

Now although Mr. Bucket walks upstairs to the little library within the larger one with the face of a man who receives some scores of letters every day, it happens that much correspondence is not incidental to his life. He is no great scribe, rather handling his pen like the pocket-staff he carries about with him always convenient to his grasp, and discourages correspondence with himself in others as being too artless and direct a way of doing delicate business. Further, he often sees damaging letters produced in evidence and has occasion to reflect that it was a green thing to write them. For these reasons he has very little to do with letters, either as sender or receiver. And yet he has received a round half-dozen within the last twenty-four hours.
现在，尽管巴克特先生走上楼，来到大图书馆内的小图书馆，脸上的表情每天都会收到几十封信，但碰巧的是，许多信件并不是他生活中偶然的。他不是一个出色的抄写员，他对待笔的方式就像他随身携带的袖珍工作人员一样，总是方便他抓握，并且不鼓励与他人进行通信，因为这种方式过于天真和直接，是一种处理微妙事务的方式。此外，他经常看到有破坏性的信件作为证据，并有机会反思写这些信件是一件绿色的事情。由于这些原因，无论是作为寄件人还是收件人，他与信件关系不大。然而在过去的二十四小时内他已经收到了六封。

‘And this,’ says Mr. Bucket, spreading it out on the table, ‘is in the same hand, and consists of the same two words.’
“而这个，”巴克特先生一边说，一边把它摊在桌子上，“出自同一个人之手，并且由相同的两个词组成。”

What two words?
哪两个字？

He turns the key in the door, ungirdles his black pocket-book (book of fate to many), lays another letter by it, and reads, boldly written in each, ‘Lady Dedlock.’
他转动门上的钥匙，解开他的黑色皮夹（对很多人来说都是命运之书），在旁边放了另一封信，每封都用粗体字写着“戴德洛克夫人”。

‘Yes, yes,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘But I could have made the money without this anonymous information.’
“是的，是的，”巴克特先生说。 “但如果没有这些匿名信息，我也能赚到钱。”

Having put the letters in his book of fate and girdled it up again, he unlocks the door just in time to admit his dinner, which is brought upon a goodly tray with a decanter of sherry. Mr. Bucket frequently observes, in friendly circles where there is no restraint, that he likes a toothful of your fine old brown East Inder sherry better than anything you can offer him. Consequently he fills and empties his glass with a smack of his lips and is proceeding with his refreshment when an idea enters his mind.
将信件放入命运之书并重新束紧后，他及时打开门进入晚餐，晚餐盛在一个精美的托盘上，托盘上盛有一瓶雪利酒。巴克特先生经常在没有任何限制的友好圈子里观察到，他更喜欢喝一口你的上好的老棕色东印度雪利酒，胜过你能给他的任何东西。因此，当他用嘴唇咂嘴地倒满和倒空杯子时，当一个想法进入他的脑海时，他正在继续他的茶点。

Mr. Bucket softly opens the door of communication between that room and the next and looks in. The library is deserted, and the fire is sinking low. Mr. Bucket’s eye, after taking a pigeon-flight round the room, alights upon a table where letters are usually put as they arrive. Several letters for Sir Leicester are upon it. Mr. Bucket draws near and examines the directions. ‘No,’ he says, ‘there’s none in that hand. It’s only me as is written to. I can break it to Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, to-morrow.’
巴克特先生轻轻地打开了那个房间和另一个房间之间的通讯门，往里看去。图书馆里空无一人，火势正在慢慢减弱。巴克特先生的目光在房间里飞来飞去，最后落在一张桌子上，信件到达时通常会放在桌子上。上面有几封写给莱斯特爵士的信。巴克特先生走近并检查方向。 “不，”他说，“那只手上什么也没有。”正如所写的那样，只有我一个人。明天我可以向莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，准男爵透露。

With that he returns to finish his dinner with a good appetite, and after a light nap, is summoned into the drawing-room. Sir Leicester has received him there these several evenings past to know whether he has anything to report. The debilitated cousin (much exhausted by the funeral) and Volumnia are in attendance.
说完，他胃口大好地吃完了晚饭，小睡了一会儿后，被叫进了客厅。莱斯特爵士前几天晚上在那里接待了他，询问他是否有什么要报告的。虚弱的表弟（因葬礼而筋疲力尽）和沃伦尼亚出席了会议。

Mr. Bucket makes three distinctly different bows to these three people. A bow of homage to Sir Leicester, a bow of gallantry to Volumnia, and a bow of recognition to the debilitated Cousin, to whom it airily says, ‘You are a swell about town, and you know me, and I know you.’ Having distributed these little specimens of his tact, Mr. Bucket rubs his hands.
巴克特先生向这三个人行了三个截然不同的鞠躬礼。向莱斯特爵士致敬，向沃伦尼亚致敬，向虚弱的堂兄致敬，它轻描淡写地对他说：“你是城里的名人，你认识我，我也认识你。”巴克特先生分发完这些他机智的小样本后，搓了搓手。

‘Have you anything new to communicate, officer?’ inquires Sir Leicester. ‘Do you wish to hold any conversation with me in private?’
“您有什么新消息要传达吗，军官？”莱斯特爵士问道。 “你想和我私下交谈吗？”

‘Why—not tonight, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet.’
“为什么——今晚不行，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵。”

‘Because my time,’ pursues Sir Leicester, ‘is wholly at your disposal with a view to the vindication of the outraged majesty of the law.’
“因为我的时间，”莱斯特爵士继续说道，“完全由您支配，以维护法律的尊严。”

Mr. Bucket coughs and glances at Volumnia, rouged and necklaced, as though he would respectfully observe, ‘I do assure you, you’re a pretty creetur. I’ve seen hundreds worse looking at your time of life, I have indeed.’
巴克特先生咳嗽了一声，看了一眼涂着胭脂、戴着项链的沃伦尼亚，仿佛他会恭敬地说道：“我向你保证，你是个漂亮的怪物。”在你一生中，我见过数百个更糟糕的人，我确实见过。

The fair Volumnia, not quite unconscious perhaps of the humanizing influence of her charms, pauses in the writing of cocked-hat notes and meditatively adjusts the pearl necklace. Mr. Bucket prices that decoration in his mind and thinks it as likely as not that Volumnia is writing poetry.
美丽的沃伦尼娅也许并没有完全意识到她的魅力所带来的人性化影响，她在写三角帽笔记时停下来，若有所思地调整着珍珠项链。巴克特先生在心里对这种装饰进行了估价，并认为沃伦尼亚很可能正在写诗。

‘If I have not,’ pursues Sir Leicester, ‘in the most emphatic manner, adjured you, officer, to exercise your utmost skill in this atrocious case, I particularly desire to take the present opportunity of rectifying any omission I may have made. Let no expense be a consideration. I am prepared to defray all charges. You can incur none in pursuit of the object you have undertaken that I shall hesitate for a moment to bear.’
“如果我没有，”莱斯特爵士继续说道，“以最强烈的方式恳求您，军官，在这起残暴的案件中发挥最大的技巧，我特别希望利用目前的机会纠正我可能犯下的任何疏忽。不要考虑任何费用。我准备支付所有费用。为了追求你所承担的目标，你不会招致任何让我犹豫是否要承担的事情。

Mr. Bucket made Sir Leicester’s bow again as a response to this liberality.
巴克特先生再次向莱斯特爵士鞠躬，作为对这种慷慨的回应。

‘My mind,’ Sir Leicester adds with a generous warmth, ‘has not, as may be easily supposed, recovered its tone since the late diabolical occurrence. It is not likely ever to recover its tone. But it is full of indignation to-night after undergoing the ordeal of consigning to the tomb the remains of a faithful, a zealous, a devoted adherent.’
“我的思想，”莱斯特爵士慷慨地热情地补充道，“正如人们容易想象的那样，自从最近发生的恶魔事件以来，我的思想还没有恢复正常。”它不太可能恢复其基调。但今晚，在经历了将一位忠实、热心、忠诚的信徒的遗体送入坟墓的磨难之后，它充满了愤慨。”

Sir Leicester’s voice trembles and his grey hair stirs upon his head. Tears are in his eyes; the best part of his nature is aroused.
莱斯特爵士的声音在颤抖，他的灰白头发在头上抖动。他的眼里含着泪水；他本性中最好的部分被激发了。

‘I declare,’ he says, ‘I solemnly declare that until this crime is discovered and, in the course of justice, punished, I almost feel as if there were a stain upon my name. A gentleman who has devoted a large portion of his life to me, a gentleman who has devoted the last day of his life to me, a gentleman who has constantly sat at my table and slept under my roof, goes from my house to his own, and is struck down within an hour of his leaving my house. I cannot say but that he may have been followed from my house, watched at my house, even first marked because of his association with my house—which may have suggested his possessing greater wealth and being altogether of greater importance than his own retiring demeanour would have indicated. If I cannot with my means and influence and my position bring all the perpetrators of such a crime to light, I fail in the assertion of my respect for that gentleman’s memory and of my fidelity towards one who was ever faithful to me.’
“我声明，”他说，“我郑重声明，在这一罪行被发现并在正义的过程中受到惩罚之前，我几乎感觉自己的名字受到了玷污。”一个为我奉献了大半辈子的绅士，一个为我奉献了一生最后一天的绅士，一个经常坐在我桌边睡在我屋檐下的绅士，从我家到他家，并在他离开我家后一小时内被击倒。我只能说，他可能从我家被跟踪，在我家被监视，甚至因为他与我家的联系而首先被注意到——这可能表明他拥有更多的财富，并且比他自己的退休行为更重要。已表明。如果我不能凭借我的手段、影响力和我的地位将此类罪行的所有肇事者绳之以法，我就无法表达对那位先生的记忆的尊重，也无法表达对曾经忠实于我的人的忠诚。”

While he makes this protestation with great emotion and earnestness, looking round the room as if he were addressing an assembly, Mr. Bucket glances at him with an observant gravity in which there might be, but for the audacity of the thought, a touch of compassion.
巴克特先生怀着极大的情感和真诚做出了这一声明，他环视房间，仿佛他正在向集会发表讲话，而巴克特先生则用一种敏锐的严肃态度看了他一眼，如果不是这个想法大胆的话，其中可能有一丝同情。

‘The ceremony of to-day,’ continues Sir Leicester, ‘strikingly illustrative of the respect in which my deceased friend’—he lays a stress upon the word, for death levels all distinctions—‘was held by the flower of the land, has, I say, aggravated the shock I have received from this most horrible and audacious crime. If it were my brother who had committed it, I would not spare him.’
“今天的仪式，”莱斯特爵士继续说道，“鲜明地说明了我已故的朋友”——他强调这个词，因为死亡消除了一切区别——“是由这片土地的花朵举行的，我说，这加剧了我对这一最可怕、最大胆犯罪行为的震惊。如果是我哥哥干的，我也不会饶过他。”

Mr. Bucket looks very grave. Volumnia remarks of the deceased that he was the trustiest and dearest person!
巴克特先生看上去很严肃。沃伦尼亚评价死者说，他是最值得信赖和最亲爱的人！

‘You must feel it as a deprivation to you, miss, replies Mr. Bucket soothingly, ‘no doubt. He was calculated to BE a deprivation, I’m sure he was.’
“你一定觉得这对你来说是一种剥夺，小姐，”巴克特先生安慰地回答道，“毫无疑问。”他被认为是一种剥夺，我确信他确实如此。

Volumnia gives Mr. Bucket to understand, in reply, that her sensitive mind is fully made up never to get the better of it as long as she lives, that her nerves are unstrung for ever, and that she has not the least expectation of ever smiling again. Meanwhile she folds up a cocked hat for that redoubtable old general at Bath, descriptive of her melancholy condition.
作为回答，沃伦尼亚让巴克特先生明白，她敏感的头脑已经下定决心，只要她活着，就永远不会好起来，她的神经永远处于紧张状态，她对任何事情都没有任何期望。再次微笑。与此同时，她为巴斯那位令人敬畏的老将军折了一顶三角帽，描述了她忧郁的处境。

‘It gives a start to a delicate female,’ says Mr. Bucket sympathetically, ‘but it’ll wear off.’
“它给娇弱的雌性带来了一个开始，”巴克特先生同情地说，“但它会逐渐消失。”

Volumnia wishes of all things to know what is doing? Whether they are going to convict, or whatever it is, that dreadful soldier? Whether he had any accomplices, or whatever the thing is called in the law? And a great deal more to the like artless purpose.
Volumnia希望万物都知道在做什么？他们是否要对那个可怕的士兵定罪，或者不管是什么？他是否有任何同谋，或者法律上所说的任何东西？还有很多类似的简单目的。

‘Why you see, miss,’ returns Mr. Bucket, bringing the finger into persuasive action—and such is his natural gallantry that he had almost said ‘my dear’—‘it ain’t easy to answer those questions at the present moment. Not at the present moment. I’ve kept myself on this case, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,’ whom Mr. Bucket takes into the conversation in right of his importance, ‘morning, noon, and night. But for a glass or two of sherry, I don’t think I could have had my mind so much upon the stretch as it has been. I COULD answer your questions, miss, but duty forbids it. Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, will very soon be made acquainted with all that has been traced. And I hope that he may find it’—Mr. Bucket again looks grave—‘to his satisfaction.’
“为什么你这么看，小姐，”巴克特先生回答道，用手指做出有说服力的动作——这就是他天生的殷勤，他几乎要说“亲爱的”——“现在回答这些问题并不容易。” 。目前还没有。我一直在关注这个案子，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，”巴克特先生根据他的重要性将他纳入谈话，“早上、中午和晚上。如果不是喝一两杯雪利酒，我想我不可能像现在这样全神贯注了。我可以回答你的问题，小姐，但职责不允许这样做。莱斯特·戴德洛克男爵爵士很快就会了解所有追踪到的情况。我希望他能找到它’——先生。巴克特再次显得严肃起来——“这让他很满意。”

The debilitated cousin only hopes some fler’ll be executed—zample. Thinks more interest’s wanted—get man hanged presentime—than get man place ten thousand a year. Hasn’t a doubt—zample—far better hang wrong fler than no fler.
虚弱的表弟只希望有人被处决——例如。认为现在需要更多的兴趣——立即绞死一个人——而不是让一个人每年获得一万块钱。毫无疑问——例如——挂错了比没有挂要好得多。

‘YOU know life, you know, sir,’ says Mr. Bucket with a complimentary twinkle of his eye and crook of his finger, ‘and you can confirm what I’ve mentioned to this lady. YOU don’t want to be told that from information I have received I have gone to work. You’re up to what a lady can’t be expected to be up to. Lord! Especially in your elevated station of society, miss,’ says Mr. Bucket, quite reddening at another narrow escape from ‘my dear.’
“你知道生活，你知道，先生，”巴克特先生说道，他的眼睛眨着眼睛，弯曲着手指，“你可以证实我向这位女士提到的事情。”您不想被告知，根据我收到的信息，我已经去上班了。你能做到一位女士无法做到的事情。主！尤其是在你社会地位较高的情况下，小姐。”巴克特先生说道，他又一次险些逃脱了“亲爱的”，他的脸涨得通红。

‘The officer, Volumnia,’ observes Sir Leicester, ‘is faithful to his duty, and perfectly right.’
莱斯特爵士评论说：“这位军官，沃卢尼亚，忠实于他的职责，而且完全正确。”

Mr. Bucket murmurs, ‘Glad to have the honour of your approbation, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet.’
巴克特先生低声说道：“很高兴得到您的认可，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵。”

‘In fact, Volumnia,’ proceeds Sir Leicester, ‘it is not holding up a good model for imitation to ask the officer any such questions as you have put to him. He is the best judge of his own responsibility; he acts upon his responsibility. And it does not become us, who assist in making the laws, to impede or interfere with those who carry them into execution. Or,’ says Sir Leicester somewhat sternly, for Volumnia was going to cut in before he had rounded his sentence, ‘or who vindicate their outraged majesty.’
“事实上，沃伦尼亚，”莱斯特爵士继续说道，“向军官提出你向他提出的任何此类问题，并不能成为一个良好的模仿模式。”他是自己责任的最佳判断者；他履行自己的责任。我们作为协助制定法律的人，不应该去阻碍或干涉那些执行法律的人。或者，”莱斯特爵士有些严厉地说，因为沃伦尼亚正要在他结束话之前插话，“或者谁来维护他们愤怒的陛下。”

Volumnia with all humility explains that she had not merely the plea of curiosity to urge (in common with the giddy youth of her sex in general) but that she is perfectly dying with regret and interest for the darling man whose loss they all deplore.
沃卢姆尼娅谦虚地解释说，她不仅仅是出于好奇（与一般同性中轻浮的年轻人一样），而且她正在带着对失去这个亲爱的男人的遗憾和兴趣而彻底死去，他们都为失去这个男人而感到遗憾。

‘Very well, Volumnia,’ returns Sir Leicester. ‘Then you cannot be too discreet.’
“很好，沃伦尼亚，”莱斯特爵士回答道。 “那你就不能太谨慎了。”

Mr. Bucket takes the opportunity of a pause to be heard again.
巴克特先生利用暂停的机会再次发言。

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I have no objections to telling this lady, with your leave and among ourselves, that I look upon the case as pretty well complete. It is a beautiful case—a beautiful case—and what little is wanting to complete it, I expect to be able to supply in a few hours.’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，在您允许的情况下，我不反对告诉这位女士，我认为这个案子已经完成了。这是一个漂亮的箱子——一个漂亮的箱子——而且我希望能够在几个小时内提供完成它的很少的东西。”

‘I am very glad indeed to hear it,’ says Sir Leicester. ‘Highly creditable to you.’
“我确实很高兴听到这个消息，”莱斯特爵士说道。 “你非常值得信赖。”

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,’ returns Mr. Bucket very seriously, ‘I hope it may at one and the same time do me credit and prove satisfactory to all. When I depict it as a beautiful case, you see, miss,’ Mr. Bucket goes on, glancing gravely at Sir Leicester, ‘I mean from my point of view. As considered from other points of view, such cases will always involve more or less unpleasantness. Very strange things comes to our knowledge in families, miss; bless your heart, what you would think to be phenomenons, quite.’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，”巴克特先生非常严肃地回答道，“我希望它能同时为我赢得荣誉，并让所有人都满意。”当我把它描绘成一个美丽的案例时，你看，小姐，”巴克特先生继续说道，严肃地看了莱斯特爵士一眼，“我的意思是从我的角度来看。从其他角度考虑，此类案件总会或多或少地带来不愉快。我们在家庭中发现了非常奇怪的事情，小姐；保佑你的心，你认为这是现象，相当。

Volumnia, with her innocent little scream, supposes so.
沃伦妮娅天真地小声尖叫，她这么认为。

‘Aye, and even in gen-teel families, in high families, in great families,’ says Mr. Bucket, again gravely eyeing Sir Leicester aside. ‘I have had the honour of being employed in high families before, and you have no idea—come, I’ll go so far as to say not even YOU have any idea, sir,’ this to the debilitated cousin, ‘what games goes on!’
“是的，甚至在上流家庭、上流家庭、伟大家庭也是如此，”巴克特先生说，再次严肃地看着一旁的莱斯特爵士。 “我以前曾有幸受雇于名门望族，而你不知道——来吧，我什至可以说，连你也不知道，先生，”这是对虚弱的表弟说的，“什么游戏？”继续！'

The cousin, who has been casting sofa-pillows on his head, in a prostration of boredom yawns, ‘Vayli,’ being the used-up for ‘very likely.’
表弟一直把沙发枕头放在头上，无聊地打着哈欠，“Vayli”是“很可能”的用词。

Sir Leicester, deeming it time to dismiss the officer, here majestically interposes with the words, ‘Very good. Thank you!’ and also with a wave of his hand, implying not only that there is an end of the discourse, but that if high families fall into low habits they must take the consequences. ‘You will not forget, officer,’ he adds with condescension, ‘that I am at your disposal when you please.’
莱斯特爵士认为是时候解雇这名军官了，他在这里庄严地插话道：“很好。”谢谢！”他还挥了挥手，不仅暗示谈话到此结束，而且暗示如果名门望族陷入低俗习惯，他们必须承担后果。 “你不会忘记，长官，”他居高临下地补充道，“只要你愿意，我随时为你服务。”

Mr. Bucket (still grave) inquires if to-morrow morning, now, would suit, in case he should be as for’ard as he expects to be. Sir Leicester replies, ‘All times are alike to me.’ Mr. Bucket makes his three bows and is withdrawing when a forgotten point occurs to him.
巴克特先生（仍然很严肃）询问明天早上是否合适，以防他像他期望的那样前进。莱斯特爵士回答道：“对我来说，任何时候都是一样的。”巴克特先生三鞠躬，正要退出时，突然想起了一个被遗忘的事情。

‘Might I ask, by the by,’ he says in a low voice, cautiously returning, ‘who posted the reward-bill on the staircase.’
“顺便问一下，”他小心​​翼翼地回过头来，低声说道，“谁把悬赏单贴在楼梯上的。”

‘I ordered it to be put up there,’ replies Sir Leicester.
“我命令把它放在那里，”莱斯特爵士回答道。

‘Would it be considered a liberty, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, if I was to ask you why?’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，如果我问你为什么，这会被视为一种自由吗？”

‘Not at all. I chose it as a conspicuous part of the house. I think it cannot be too prominently kept before the whole establishment. I wish my people to be impressed with the enormity of the crime, the determination to punish it, and the hopelessness of escape. At the same time, officer, if you in your better knowledge of the subject see any objection—‘
'一点也不。我选择它作为房子的显眼部分。我认为它不能在整个机构面前太显眼。我希望我的人民对罪行的严重性、惩罚罪行的决心以及逃脱的无望印象深刻。同时，警官，如果您对这个问题有更深入的了解，发现有任何反对意见——”

Mr. Bucket sees none now; the bill having been put up, had better not be taken down. Repeating his three bows he withdraws, closing the door on Volumnia’s little scream, which is a preliminary to her remarking that that charmingly horrible person is a perfect Blue Chamber.
巴克特先生现在什么也看不见了。法案既然提出了，最好不要撤掉。重复三鞠躬之后，他退出了，关上了沃伦妮娅小尖叫声的大门，这是她评论那个迷人而可怕的人是一个完美的蓝室的前奏。

In his fondness for society and his adaptability to all grades, Mr. Bucket is presently standing before the hall-fire—bright and warm on the early winter night—admiring Mercury.
巴克特先生热爱社交，对各个年级的适应能力都很强，他现在正站在大厅的火前——初冬的夜晚明亮而温暖——欣赏着墨丘利。

‘Why, you’re six foot two, I suppose?’ says Mr. Bucket.
“我猜你身高六英尺二英寸？”巴克特先生说。

‘Three,’ says Mercury.
“三，”墨丘利说。

‘Are you so much? But then, you see, you’re broad in proportion and don’t look it. You’re not one of the weak-legged ones, you ain’t. Was you ever modelled now?’ Mr. Bucket asks, conveying the expression of an artist into the turn of his eye and head.
‘你就这么厉害吗？但是，你看，你的比例很宽大，但看起来并不如此。你不是腿软的人之一，你不是。 “你现在当过模特吗？”巴克特问道，他的目光和头部的转动传达出艺术家的表情。

Mercury never was modelled.
水星从未被建模。

‘Then you ought to be, you know,’ says Mr. Bucket; ‘and a friend of mine that you’ll hear of one day as a Royal Academy sculptor would stand something handsome to make a drawing of your proportions for the marble. My Lady’s out, ain’t she?’
“那你就应该这样，你知道，”巴克特先生说。 “有一天你会听说我的一位朋友，他是一名皇家学院雕塑家，他会站在一些漂亮的东西上，为你绘制大理石的比例图。夫人出去了，不是吗？

‘Out to dinner.’
“出去吃晚饭。”

‘Goes out pretty well every day, don’t she?’
“她每天都出去得很好，不是吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Not to be wondered at!’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Such a fine woman as her, so handsome and so graceful and so elegant, is like a fresh lemon on a dinner-table, ornamental wherever she goes. Was your father in the same way of life as yourself?’
“这并不奇怪！”巴克特先生说。像她这样的好女人，那么英俊，那么优雅，那么优雅，就像餐桌上的新鲜柠檬，走到哪里都是装饰品。你父亲的生活方式和你一样吗？

Answer in the negative.
答案是否定的。

‘Mine was,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘My father was first a page, then a footman, then a butler, then a steward, then an inn-keeper. Lived universally respected, and died lamented. Said with his last breath that he considered service the most honourable part of his career, and so it was. I’ve a brother in service, AND a brotherin-law. My Lady a good temper?’
“我的是，”巴克特先生说。 “我的父亲最初是一名侍从，然后是一名男仆，然后是一名管家，然后是一名管家，然后是一名旅馆老板。生时受人尊敬，死时受人哀叹。他用最后一口气说，他认为服务是他职业生涯中最光荣的部分，事实也确实如此。我有一个服役的兄弟，还有一个姐夫。夫人脾气好吗？

Mercury replies, ‘As good as you can expect.’
水星回答说：“正如你所期望的那样好。”

‘Ah!’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘A little spoilt? A little capricious? Lord! What can you anticipate when they’re so handsome as that? And we like ‘em all the better for it, don’t we?’
“啊！”巴克特先生说。 ‘有点被宠坏了？有点任性？主！当他们如此英俊时，你能期待什么？我们因此更喜欢他们，不是吗？

Mercury, with his hands in the pockets of his bright peach-blossom small-clothes, stretches his symmetrical silk legs with the air of a man of gallantry and can’t deny it. Come the roll of wheels and a violent ringing at the bell. ‘Talk of the angels,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Here she is!’
墨丘利双手插在亮丽的桃花小衣口袋里，伸展着匀称的丝腿，一副侠气十足的样子，让人无法否认。车轮的滚动声和剧烈的铃声响起。 “谈论天使，”巴克特先生说。 '她在这！'

The doors are thrown open, and she passes through the hall. Still very pale, she is dressed in slight mourning and wears two beautiful bracelets. Either their beauty or the beauty of her arms is particularly attractive to Mr. Bucket. He looks at them with an eager eye and rattles something in his pocket—halfpence perhaps.
门打开了，她穿过大厅。她仍然很苍白，穿着浅丧服，戴着两个漂亮的手镯。无论是她们的美丽，还是她手臂的美丽，都对巴克特先生特别有吸引力。他用热切的目光看着他们，并把口袋里的东西弄得格格作响——也许是半便士。

Noticing him at his distance, she turns an inquiring look on the other Mercury who has brought her home.
注意到他在远处，她转而询问地看着另一个带她回家的水星。

‘Mr. Bucket, my Lady.’
'先生。桶，我的女士。

Mr. Bucket makes a leg and comes forward, passing his familiar demon over the region of his mouth.
巴克特先生迈出一条腿，向前走去，将他熟悉的恶魔放在嘴边。

‘Are you waiting to see Sir Leicester?’
“你在等见莱斯特爵士吗？”

‘No, my Lady, I’ve seen him!’
“不，夫人，我见过他！”

‘Have you anything to say to me?’
“你有什么话要对我说吗？”

‘Not just at present, my Lady.’
“不仅仅是现在，夫人。”

‘Have you made any new discoveries?’
“你有什么新发现吗？”

‘A few, my Lady.’
“有一些，夫人。”

This is merely in passing. She scarcely makes a stop, and sweeps upstairs alone. Mr. Bucket, moving towards the staircase-foot, watches her as she goes up the steps the old man came down to his grave, past murderous groups of statuary repeated with their shadowy weapons on the wall, past the printed bill, which she looks at going by, out of view.
这只是顺便说一下。她几乎没有停下来，独自一人上楼。巴克特先生朝楼梯脚走去，看着她走上台阶，老人来到了他的坟墓，经过墙上重复出现的一群凶残的雕像，他们拿着阴暗的武器，经过她看着的印刷账单路过时，看不见。

‘She’s a lovely woman, too, she really is,’ says Mr. Bucket, coming back to Mercury. ‘Don’t look quite healthy though.’
“她也是一个可爱的女人，确实如此，”回到水星的巴克特先生说道。 “不过看起来不太健康。”

Is not quite healthy, Mercury informs him. Suffers much from headaches.
水星告诉他，他不太健康。深受头痛之苦。

Really? That’s a pity! Walking, Mr. Bucket would recommend for that. Well, she tries walking, Mercury rejoins. Walks sometimes for two hours when she has them bad. By night, too.
真的吗？太可惜了！巴克特先生建议步行。好吧，她尝试走路，水星重新加入。当她身体不好时，有时会走两个小时。晚上也是。

‘Are you sure you’re quite so much as six foot three?’ asks Mr. Bucket. ‘Begging your pardon for interrupting you a moment?’
“你确定你身高有六英尺三英寸吗？”巴克特先生问道。 “请原谅打扰您一下？”

Not a doubt about it.
毫无疑问。

‘You’re so well put together that I shouldn’t have thought it. But the household troops, though considered fine men, are built so straggling. Walks by night, does she? When it’s moonlight, though?’
‘你们的配合如此之好，我不应该想到这一点。但家中的军队虽然被认为是优秀的人，但身材却如此散漫。她晚上走路吗？不过，什么时候是月光呢？

Oh, yes. When it’s moonlight! Of course. Oh, of course! Conversational and acquiescent on both sides.
哦是的。当月色明媚的时候！当然。哦，当然！双方对话并默许。

‘I suppose you ain’t in the habit of walking yourself?’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Not much time for it, I should say?’
“我想你没有自己走路的习惯吧？”巴克特先生说。 “我应该说，时间不多吧？”

Besides which, Mercury don’t like it. Prefers carriage exercise.
除此之外，水星不喜欢它。更喜欢马车运动。

‘To be sure,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘That makes a difference. Now I think of it,’ says Mr. Bucket, warming his hands and looking pleasantly at the blaze, ‘she went out walking the very night of this business.’
“当然，”巴克特先生说。 ‘这很重要。现在我想起来了，”巴克特先生一边说，一边暖暖的手，愉快地看着火焰，“这件事发生的那天晚上，她就出去散步了。”

‘To be sure she did! I let her into the garden over the way.
‘当然她做到了！我让她顺路进入花园。

‘And left her there. Certainly you did. I saw you doing it.’
'然后把她留在那里。当然你做到了。我看到你这么做了。

‘I didn’t see YOU,’ says Mercury.
“我没有看到你，”墨丘利说。

‘I was rather in a hurry,’ returns Mr. Bucket, ‘for I was going to visit a aunt of mine that lives at Chelsea—next door but two to the old original Bun House—ninety year old the old lady is, a single woman, and got a little property. Yes, I chanced to be passing at the time. Let’s see. What time might it be? It wasn’t ten.’
“我很着急，”巴克特先生回答道，“因为我要去拜访住在切尔西的一位阿姨——就在原来的面包屋隔壁，但只有两层楼——那位老太太已经九十岁了，是一位单身女性，有一点财产。是的，我当时正好路过。让我们来看看。可能是什么时间？还不到十点。”

‘Half-past nine.’
'九点半。'

‘You’re right. So it was. And if I don’t deceive myself, my Lady was muffled in a loose black mantle, with a deep fringe to it?’
'你说得对。确实如此。如果我没有欺骗自己的话，我的女士穿着一件宽松的黑色斗篷，上面有很深的流苏？

‘Of course she was.’
“当然是。”

Of course she was. Mr. Bucket must return to a little work he has to get on with upstairs, but he must shake hands with Mercury in acknowledgment of his agreeable conversation, and will he—this is all he asks—will he, when he has a leisure half-hour, think of bestowing it on that Royal Academy sculptor, for the advantage of both parties?
她当然是。巴克特先生必须回去做他必须在楼上进行的一项小工作，但他必须与墨丘利握手，以感谢他愉快的谈话，而且他会——这就是他所要求的——他会吗，当他有一半闲暇的时候时辰，想不想赠予那位皇家学院雕塑家，对双方都有利？

CHAPTER LIV
第四章


Springing a Mine
挖掘地雷

Refreshed by sleep, Mr. Bucket rises betimes in the morning and prepares for a field-day. Smartened up by the aid of a clean shirt and a wet hairbrush, with which instrument, on occasions of ceremony, he lubricates such thin locks as remain to him after his life of severe study, Mr. Bucket lays in a breakfast of two mutton chops as a foundation to work upon, together with tea, eggs, toast, and marmalade on a corresponding scale. Having much enjoyed these strengthening matters and having held subtle conference with his familiar demon, he confidently instructs Mercury ‘just to mention quietly to Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, that whenever he’s ready for me, I’m ready for him.’ A gracious message being returned that Sir Leicester will expedite his dressing and join Mr. Bucket in the library within ten minutes, Mr. Bucket repairs to that apartment and stands before the fire with his finger on his chin, looking at the blazing coals.
巴克特先生在睡眠中精神焕发，早上准时起床，为一天的野外活动做好准备。借助一件干净的衬衫和一把湿发刷，他在仪式上用这种工具润滑了他经过一生的严格学习后留下的稀疏的头发，巴克特先生吃了两块羊排的早餐，让自己变得聪明起来。作为基础，与相应比例的茶、鸡蛋、吐司和果酱一起使用。在非常享受这些增强力量的过程并与他熟悉的恶魔举行了微妙的会议后，他自信地指示墨丘利“悄悄地向莱斯特·戴德洛克男爵爵士提及，无论何时他为我做好了准备，我也为他做好了准备。”这是一个亲切的信息。得知莱斯特爵士将加快穿衣，并在十分钟内与巴克特先生一起去图书馆，巴克特先生回到那间公寓，手指托着下巴站在火前，看着熊熊燃烧的煤炭。

Thoughtful Mr. Bucket is, as a man may be with weighty work to do, but composed, sure, confident. From the expression of his face he might be a famous whist-player for a large stake—say a hundred guineas certain—with the game in his hand, but with a high reputation involved in his playing his hand out to the last card in a masterly way. Not in the least anxious or disturbed is Mr. Bucket when Sir Leicester appears, but he eyes the baronet aside as he comes slowly to his easy-chair with that observant gravity of yesterday in which there might have been yesterday, but for the audacity of the idea, a touch of compassion.
巴克特先生体贴周到，就像一个有繁重工作要做的人一样，但镇定、肯定、自信。从他脸上的表情来看，他可能是一位著名的惠斯特玩家，赌注很大——比如一百基尼——手里拿着牌，但他在牌局中将手牌打到最后一张牌时享有很高的声誉。高超的方式。当莱斯特爵士出现时，巴克特先生并没有表现出丝毫的焦虑或不安，但当他慢慢地走向他的安乐椅时，他把男爵放在一边，带着昨天的观察力，如果不是因为他的大胆，他可能已经是昨天了。这个想法，一丝同情心。

‘I am sorry to have kept you waiting, officer, but I am rather later than my usual hour this morning. I am not well. The agitation and the indignation from which I have recently suffered have been too much for me. I am subject to—gout’—Sir Leicester was going to say indisposition and would have said it to anybody else, but Mr. Bucket palpably knows all about it—‘and recent circumstances have brought it on.’
“很抱歉让您久等了，警官，但我今天早上比平常的时间晚了很多。”我不好。最近我所遭受的焦躁和愤慨让我难以承受。我患有——痛风”——莱斯特爵士本来想说的是身体不适，也会对其他任何人这么说，但巴克特先生显然知道这一切——“最近的情况导致了这种情况。”

As he takes his seat with some difficulty and with an air of pain, Mr. Bucket draws a little nearer, standing with one of his large hands on the library-table.
当巴克特先生费力地、带着痛苦的神情坐到座位上时，他靠近了一点，用一只大手放在图书馆的桌子上。

‘I am not aware, officer,’ Sir Leicester observes; raising his eyes to his face, ‘whether you wish us to be alone, but that is entirely as you please. If you do, well and good. If not, Miss Dedlock would be interested—‘
“我不知道，长官，”莱斯特爵士说道。他抬起眼睛看着自己的脸，“无论你是否希望我们单独相处，但这完全随你的意。”如果你这样做了，那就太好了。如果没有的话，戴德洛克小姐会感兴趣——”

‘Why, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,’ returns Mr. Bucket with his head persuasively on one side and his forefinger pendant at one ear like an earring, ‘we can’t be too private just at present. You will presently see that we can’t be too private. A lady, under the circumstances, and especially in Miss Dedlock’s elevated station of society, can’t but be agreeable to me, but speaking without a view to myself, I will take the liberty of assuring you that I know we can’t be too private.’
“嘿，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，”巴克特先生回答道，他的头偏向一侧，食指像耳环一样挂在一只耳朵上，“我们现在不能太私密。”您很快就会发现我们不能太私密。一位女士，在这种情况下，特别是在戴德洛克小姐的社会地位较高的情况下，不能不同意我，但在不考虑自己的情况下说话，我会冒昧地向你保证，我知道我们不能太私人了。

‘That is enough.’
'足够了。'

‘So much so, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,’ Mr. Bucket resumes, ‘that I was on the point of asking your permission to turn the key in the door.’
“正是如此，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，”巴克特先生继续说道，“我正想请求您允许我转动门上的钥匙。”

‘By all means.’ Mr. Bucket skilfully and softly takes that precaution, stooping on his knee for a moment from mere force of habit so to adjust the key in the lock as that no one shall peep in from the outerside.
“无论如何。”巴克特先生熟练而轻柔地采取了这一预防措施，出于习惯的力量，他在膝盖上弯下身子，调整钥匙在锁中的位置，以免有人从外面偷看。

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I mentioned yesterday evening that I wanted but a very little to complete this case. I have now completed it and collected proof against the person who did this crime.’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，我昨天晚上提到，我想要的只是一点点来完成这个案子。我现在已经完成了这项工作，并收集了针对犯下这起罪行的人的证据。”

‘Against the soldier?’
“针对士兵？”

‘No, Sir Leicester Dedlock; not the soldier.’
“不，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士；不是士兵。

Sir Leicester looks astounded and inquires, ‘Is the man in custody?’
莱斯特爵士看上去很惊讶，问道：“这个人被拘留了吗？”

Mr. Bucket tells him, after a pause, ‘It was a woman.’
巴克特先生停顿了一下后告诉他，“那是一个女人。”

Sir Leicester leans back in his chair, and breathlessly ejaculates, ‘Good heaven!’
莱斯特爵士靠在椅子上，气喘吁吁地说：“天哪！”

‘Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,’ Mr. Bucket begins, standing over him with one hand spread out on the library-table and the forefinger of the other in impressive use, ‘it’s my duty to prepare you for a train of circumstances that may, and I go so far as to say that will, give you a shock. But Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, you are a gentleman, and I know what a gentleman is and what a gentleman is capable of. A gentleman can bear a shock when it must come, boldly and steadily. A gentleman can make up his mind to stand up against almost any blow. Why, take yourself, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. If there’s a blow to be inflicted on you, you naturally think of your family. You ask yourself, how would all them ancestors of yours, away to Julius Caesar—not to go beyond him at present—have borne that blow; you remember scores of them that would have borne it well; and you bear it well on their accounts, and to maintain the family credit. That’s the way you argue, and that’s the way you act, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet.’
“现在，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，”巴克特先生站在他身边，一只手摊开在图书馆的桌子上，另一只手的食指使用得令人印象深刻，“我有责任让你为一系列情况做好准备”我什至可以说，这可能会让你感到震惊。但是莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，你是一位绅士，我知道什么是绅士，以及绅士的能力。君子能在必须到来的冲击面前，勇敢而坚定地承受。一位绅士可以下定决心抵抗几乎任何打击。嘿，以你自己为例，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵。如果你受到打击，你自然会想到你的家人。你问自己，你所有的祖先，远赴朱利叶斯·凯撒——目前还没有超越他——如何承受这一打击？你记得有很多人能够很好地忍受这一切；你要好好地记在他们的账上，维护家族的信用。这就是你争论的方式，这就是你行事的方式，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵。

Sir Leicester, leaning back in his chair and grasping the elbows, sits looking at him with a stony face.
莱斯特爵士靠在椅子上，抓住他的胳膊肘，面无表情地看着他。

‘Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock,’ proceeds Mr. Bucket, ‘thus preparing you, let me beg of you not to trouble your mind for a moment as to anything having come to MY knowledge. I know so much about so many characters, high and low, that a piece of information more or less don’t signify a straw. I don’t suppose there’s a move on the board that would surprise ME, and as to this or that move having taken place, why my knowing it is no odds at all, any possible move whatever (provided it’s in a wrong direction) being a probable move according to my experience. Therefore, what I say to you, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, is, don’t you go and let yourself be put out of the way because of my knowing anything of your family affairs.’
“现在，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，”巴克特先生继续说道，“这样你就做好了准备，让我恳求你暂时不要为我所知的任何事情而烦恼。”我对这么多人物的了解如此之多，无论高低，一条信息或多或少都不能代表一根稻草。我不认为董事会上的任何举动会让我感到惊讶，至于已经发生的这个或那个举动，为什么我知道这根本没有可能性，任何可能的举动（只要它是在错误的方向上）都是根据我的经验，这是一个可能的举动。因此，我对你说的是，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，准男爵，你不要因为我对你的家庭事务一无所知而让自己陷入困境。

‘I thank you for your preparation,’ returns Sir Leicester after a silence, without moving hand, foot, or feature, ‘which I hope is not necessary; though I give it credit for being well intended. Be so good as to go on. Also’—Sir Leicester seems to shrink in the shadow of his figure—‘also, to take a seat, if you have no objection.’
“我感谢你的准备，”莱斯特爵士在沉默后回答道，手脚和表情都没有移动，“我希望没有必要；尽管我认为这是出于好意。好好地继续下去吧。还有——莱斯特爵士似乎在他的身影的阴影下缩了缩——“还有，如果你不反对的话，也可以坐下来。”

None at all. Mr. Bucket brings a chair and diminishes his shadow. ‘Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, with this short preface I come to the point. Lady Dedlock—‘
一个都没有。巴克特先生拿来一把椅子，缩小了他的影子。 “现在，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，通过这篇简短的序言，我进入了正题。德洛克夫人——‘

Sir Leicester raises himself in his seat and stares at him fiercely. Mr. Bucket brings the finger into play as an emollient.
莱斯特爵士从座位上站起来，凶狠地盯着他。巴克特先生将手指用作润肤剂。

‘Lady Dedlock, you see she’s universally admired. That’s what her ladyship is; she’s universally admired,’ says Mr. Bucket.
“戴德洛克女士，你看她受到普遍的钦佩。这就是她的夫人； “她受到普遍的钦佩，”巴克特先生说。

‘I would greatly prefer, officer,’ Sir Leicester returns stiffly, ‘my Lady’s name being entirely omitted from this discussion.’
“我非常希望，长官，”莱斯特爵士生硬地回答道，“这次讨论中完全省略了夫人的名字。”

‘So would I, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, but—it’s impossible.’
“我也愿意，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，但是——这是不可能的。”

‘Impossible?’
'不可能的？'

Mr. Bucket shakes his relentless head.
巴克特先生无情地摇着头。

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, it’s altogether impossible. What I have got to say is about her ladyship. She is the pivot it all turns on.’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，这完全不可能。我要说的是关于她的女士。她是一切的枢纽。

‘Officer,’ retorts Sir Leicester with a fiery eye and a quivering lip, ‘you know your duty. Do your duty, but be careful not to overstep it. I would not suffer it. I would not endure it. You bring my Lady’s name into this communication upon your responsibility—upon your responsibility. My Lady’s name is not a name for common persons to trifle with!’
“警官，”莱斯特爵士用火热的眼睛和颤抖的嘴唇反驳道，“你知道你的职责。”尽你的职责，但要注意不要超越它。我不会受苦。我不会忍受它。你将我夫人的名字带入这份通讯中是你的责任——你的责任。小姐的名字，可不是一般人可以玩弄的！”

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I say what I must say, and no more.’
“莱斯特·戴洛克爵士，从男爵，我说的是我必须说的，仅此而已。”

‘I hope it may prove so. Very well. Go on. Go on, sir!’ Glancing at the angry eyes which now avoid him and at the angry figure trembling from head to foot, yet striving to be still, Mr. Bucket feels his way with his forefinger and in a low voice proceeds.
“我希望事实证明如此。很好。继续。继续吧，先生！”巴克特先生扫了一眼那双现在避开他的愤怒的眼睛，又看了一眼那个从头到脚颤抖却竭力保持安静的愤怒身影，用食指摸索着，低声继续说道。

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, it becomes my duty to tell you that the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn long entertained mistrusts and suspicions of Lady Dedlock.’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，我有责任告诉您，已故的图尔金霍恩先生长期以来一直对戴德洛克夫人抱有不信任和怀疑。”

‘If he had dared to breathe them to me, sir—which he never did—I would have killed him myself!’ exclaims Sir Leicester, striking his hand upon the table. But in the very heat and fury of the act he stops, fixed by the knowing eyes of Mr. Bucket, whose forefinger is slowly going and who, with mingled confidence and patience, shakes his head.
“如果他敢向我吐出这些东西，先生——他从来没有这样做过——我就会亲手杀了他！”莱斯特爵士一边说，一边用手敲着桌子。但在这场激烈而激烈的行动中，他停了下来，被巴克特先生会意的眼睛注视着，巴克特先生的食指慢慢地移动，充满信心和耐心地摇了摇头。

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn was deep and close, and what he fully had in his mind in the very beginning I can’t quite take upon myself to say. But I know from his lips that he long ago suspected Lady Dedlock of having discovered, through the sight of some handwriting—in this very house, and when you yourself, Sir Leicester Dedlock, were present—the existence, in great poverty, of a certain person who had been her lover before you courted her and who ought to have been her husband.’ Mr. Bucket stops and deliberately repeats, ‘Ought to have been her husband, not a doubt about it. I know from his lips that when that person soon afterwards died, he suspected Lady Dedlock of visiting his wretched lodging and his wretched grave, alone and in secret. I know from my own inquiries and through my eyes and ears that Lady Dedlock did make such visit in the dress of her own maid, for the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn employed me to reckon up her ladyship—if you’ll excuse my making use of the term we commonly employ—and I reckoned her up, so far, completely. I confronted the maid in the chambers in Lincoln’s Inn Fields with a witness who had been Lady Dedlock’s guide, and there couldn’t be the shadow of a doubt that she had worn the young woman’s dress, unknown to her. Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I did endeavour to pave the way a little towards these unpleasant disclosures yesterday by saying that very strange things happened even in high families sometimes. All this, and more, has happened in your own family, and to and through your own Lady. It’s my belief that the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn followed up these inquiries to the hour of his death and that he and Lady Dedlock even had bad blood between them upon the matter that very night. Now, only you put that to Lady Dedlock, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, and ask her ladyship whether, even after he had left here, she didn’t go down to his chambers with the intention of saying something further to him, dressed in a loose black mantle with a deep fringe to it.’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，已故的图尔金霍恩先生是一位深沉而亲近的人，他一开始心里所想的一切我都无法承担自己的责任。但我从他的嘴里知道，他很久以前就怀疑戴德洛克夫人通过看到一些笔迹——就在这所房子里，当你本人，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士在场时——在极度贫困中发现了一个人的存在。巴克特先生停了下来，故意重复道：“毫无疑问，他应该是她的丈夫。”我从他的嘴里得知，当那个人不久之后去世时，他怀疑戴德洛克夫人独自秘密地拜访了他的破烂住所和他破烂的坟墓。我从我自己的询问和我的眼睛和耳朵中得知，戴德洛克夫人确实穿着她自己女仆的衣服来拜访，因为已故的图金霍恩先生雇用我来计算她的夫人身份——请原谅我利用我们常用的术语——到目前为止，我已经完全理解了她。我在林肯客栈菲尔兹的房间里与一名女仆对峙，证人是戴德洛克夫人的向导，毫无疑问，她穿过那位年轻女子的衣服，而她对此并不知情。莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，我昨天确实尽力为这些令人不快的披露铺平道路，我说过，即使在上流家庭中有时也会发生非常奇怪的事情。所有这一切以及更多的事情都发生在你自己的家庭中，并发生在你自己的女士身上。我相信，已故的图尔金霍恩先生一直到他去世的那一刻都在跟进这些询问，而且当晚他和戴德洛克夫人甚至在这件事上产生了不和。 现在，只有你把这个告诉戴德洛克夫人，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，并询问她的夫人，即使在他离开这里之后，她是否也没有去他的房间，打算对他说进一步的话，穿着一件宽松的黑色斗篷，上面有深流苏。’

Sir Leicester sits like a statue, gazing at the cruel finger that is probing the life-blood of his heart.
莱斯特爵士像一尊雕像一样坐着，凝视着那根残酷的手指，正在探查他心脏的命脉。

‘You put that to her ladyship, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, from me, Inspector Bucket of the Detective. And if her ladyship makes any difficulty about admitting of it, you tell her that it’s no use, that Inspector Bucket knows it and knows that she passed the soldier as you called him (though he’s not in the army now) and knows that she knows she passed him on the staircase. Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, why do I relate all this?’
“你把这句话交给了夫人，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，我，侦探巴克特督察。”如果她的夫人在承认这一点上有任何困难，你告诉她这是没有用的，巴克特督察知道这一点，并且知道她按照你的称呼越过了那个士兵（尽管他现在不在军队中）并且知道她知道她在楼梯上从他身边经过。现在，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，我为什么要讲述这一切？

Sir Leicester, who has covered his face with his hands, uttering a single groan, requests him to pause for a moment. By and by he takes his hands away, and so preserves his dignity and outward calmness, though there is no more colour in his face than in his white hair, that Mr. Bucket is a little awed by him. Something frozen and fixed is upon his manner, over and above its usual shell of haughtiness, and Mr. Bucket soon detects an unusual slowness in his speech, with now and then a curious trouble in beginning, which occasions him to utter inarticulate sounds. With such sounds he now breaks silence, soon, however, controlling himself to say that he does not comprehend why a gentleman so faithful and zealous as the late Mr. Tulkinghorn should have communicated to him nothing of this painful, this distressing, this unlooked-for, this overwhelming, this incredible intelligence.
莱斯特爵士用手捂住脸，发出一声呻吟，要求他暂停一下。渐渐地，他把手拿开，保持了自己的尊严和外表的平静，尽管他的脸上没有比他白发更多的颜色，以至于巴克特先生对他有点敬畏。巴克特先生很快就发现他的讲话异常缓慢，开始时时不时地出现一种奇怪的麻烦，这使他发出不清晰的声音。听到这样的声音，他很快就打破了沉默，然而，他控制自己说，他不明白为什么像已故的图尔金霍恩先生这样忠诚和热心的绅士不应该向他传达这种痛苦，这种令人沮丧，这种不经意的事情——因为，这种压倒性的、令人难以置信的智慧。

‘Again, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,’ returns Mr. Bucket, ‘put it to her ladyship to clear that up. Put it to her ladyship, if you think it right, from Inspector Bucket of the Detective. You’ll find, or I’m much mistaken, that the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn had the intention of communicating the whole to you as soon as he considered it ripe, and further, that he had given her ladyship so to understand. Why, he might have been going to reveal it the very morning when I examined the body! You don’t know what I’m going to say and do five minutes from this present time, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet; and supposing I was to be picked off now, you might wonder why I hadn’t done it, don’t you see?’
“再一次，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，”巴克特先生回答道，“请夫人夫人来解决这个问题。”如果您认为正确的话，请把它从侦探的督察巴克特那里交给她的女士。你会发现，或者我大错特错了，已故的图金霍恩先生打算在他认为时机成熟时立即向你传达整个情况，而且，他还赋予了她夫人身份，以便让她理解。为什么，他可能在我检查尸体的那天早上就透露了这一点！莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，你不知道五分钟后我要说什么、做什么；假设我现在就被选中，你可能会奇怪我为什么不这么做，你明白吗？

True. Sir Leicester, avoiding, with some trouble those obtrusive sounds, says, ‘True.’ At this juncture a considerable noise of voices is heard in the hall. Mr. Bucket, after listening, goes to the library-door, softly unlocks and opens it, and listens again. Then he draws in his head and whispers hurriedly but composedly, ‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, this unfortunate family affair has taken air, as I expected it might, the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn being cut down so sudden. The chance to hush it is to let in these people now in a wrangle with your footmen. Would you mind sitting quiet—on the family account—while I reckon ‘em up? And would you just throw in a nod when I seem to ask you for it?’
真的。莱斯特爵士费力地避开了那些刺耳的声音，说道：“是的。”就在这时，大厅里传来一阵喧闹的声音。巴克特先生听完后，走到图书馆门前，轻轻地打开门，又听了一遍。然后他集中注意力，匆忙但镇定地低声说道：“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，这起不幸的家庭事件已经传开，正如我所预料的那样，已故的图金霍恩先生突然被砍倒了。”平息事态的机会就是让这些正在与你的仆人发生争执的人进来。为了家庭的缘故，你介意安静地坐着，让我来算账吗？当我似乎向你提出要求时，你会点头吗？

Sir Leicester indistinctly answers, ‘Officer. The best you can, the best you can!’ and Mr. Bucket, with a nod and a sagacious crook of the forefinger, slips down into the hall, where the voices quickly die away. He is not long in returning; a few paces ahead of Mercury and a brother deity also powdered and in peach-blossomed smalls, who bear between them a chair in which is an incapable old man. Another man and two women come behind. Directing the pitching of the chair in an affable and easy manner, Mr. Bucket dismisses the Mercuries and locks the door again. Sir Leicester looks on at this invasion of the sacred precincts with an icy stare.
莱斯特爵士含糊其辞地回答：“长官。”尽力而为，尽力而为！”巴克特先生点了点头，明智地弯曲了食指，溜进了大厅，声音很快就消失了。不久他就回来了。水星前面几步远的地方还有一位神兄弟，他也涂着粉，穿着桃花小衣，中间放着一把椅子，椅子上坐着一位无能的老人。另一个男人和两个女人跟在后面。巴克特先生以一种和蔼可亲、从容的态度指挥着椅子的倾斜，然后让水星们解散并再次锁上门。莱斯特爵士用冰冷的眼神看着这次对圣域的入侵。

‘Now, perhaps you may know me, ladies and gentlemen,’ says Mr. Bucket in a confidential voice. ‘I am Inspector Bucket of the Detective, I am; and this,’ producing the tip of his convenient little staff from his breast-pocket, ‘is my authority. Now, you wanted to see Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. Well! You do see him, and mind you, it ain’t every one as is admitted to that honour. Your name, old gentleman, is Smallweed; that’s what your name is; I know it well.’
“现在，女士们先生们，也许你们可能认识我了，”巴克特先生用一种私密的声音说道。 “我是侦探的探长巴克特，我是；而这，”从胸前的口袋里掏出他方便的小手杖的尖端，“就是我的权力。现在，你想见莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵。出色地！你确实看到了他，请注意，并不是每个人都被授予这一荣誉。老先生，您的名字是斯莫威德；这就是你的名字；我很清楚。

‘Well, and you never heard any harm of it!’ cries Mr. Smallweed in a shrill loud voice.
“好吧，你从来没有听说过它有什么危害！”斯莫威德先生大声喊道。

‘You don’t happen to know why they killed the pig, do you?’ retorts Mr. Bucket with a steadfast look, but without loss of temper.
“你不知道他们为什么杀猪，对吗？”巴克特先生反驳道，他表情坚定，但没有发脾气。

‘No!’
'不！'

‘Why, they killed him,’ says Mr. Bucket, ‘on account of his having so much cheek. Don’t YOU get into the same position, because it isn’t worthy of you. You ain’t in the habit of conversing with a deaf person, are you?’
“哎呀，他们杀了他，”巴克特先生说，“因为他厚颜无耻。”你不要陷入同样的​​境地，因为它不值得你。你没有与聋人交谈的习惯，是吗？

‘Yes,’ snarls Mr. Smallweed, ‘my wife’s deaf.’
“是的，”斯莫威德先生咆哮道，“我妻子聋了。”

‘That accounts for your pitching your voice so high. But as she ain’t here; just pitch it an octave or two lower, will you, and I’ll not only be obliged to you, but it’ll do you more credit,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘This other gentleman is in the preaching line, I think?’
“这就是你把声音调得这么高的原因。”但因为她不在这里； “只要把音调低一两个八度就可以了，我不仅会感激你，而且会给你带来更多的荣誉，”巴克特先生说。 “我想，另一位先生也在传教吗？”

‘Name of Chadband,’ Mr. Smallweed puts in, speaking henceforth in a much lower key.
“查德班德的名字，”斯莫尔威德先生插话道，此后说话的语气要低得多。

‘Once had a friend and brother serjeant of the same name,’ says Mr. Bucket, offering his hand, ‘and consequently feel a liking for it. Mrs. Chadband, no doubt?’
“曾经有一个同名的朋友兼兄弟军士，”巴克特先生伸出手说道，“因此对他产生了喜欢之情。”查德班德夫人，毫无疑问？

‘And Mrs. Snagsby,’ Mr. Smallweed introduces.
“还有斯纳格斯比夫人，”斯莫尔韦德先生介绍道。

‘Husband a law-stationer and a friend of my own,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Love him like a brother! Now, what’s up?’
“丈夫是一名法律文员，也是我自己的朋友，”巴克特先生说。 ‘像爱兄弟一样爱他！现在，怎么了？

‘Do you mean what business have we come upon?’ Mr. Smallweed asks, a little dashed by the suddenness of this turn.
“你是说我们遇到了什么事情吗？”斯莫威德先生问道，突然的转变让他有点沮丧。

‘Ah! You know what I mean. Let us hear what it’s all about in presence of Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. Come.’
'啊！你知道我的意思。让我们听听莱斯特·戴德洛克男爵爵士在场的情况是怎样的。来。'

Mr. Smallweed, beckoning Mr. Chadband, takes a moment’s counsel with him in a whisper. Mr. Chadband, expressing a considerable amount of oil from the pores of his forehead and the palms of his hands, says aloud, ‘Yes. You first!’ and retires to his former place.
斯莫威德先生向查德班德先生招手，低声与他商量了一下。查德班德先生从额头和手掌的毛孔中挤出了大量的油脂，大声说道：“是的。”你先！”然后退到原来的地方。

‘I was the client and friend of Mr. Tulkinghorn,’ pipes Grandfather Smallweed then; ‘I did business with him. I was useful to him, and he was useful to me. Krook, dead and gone, was my brother-in-law. He was own brother to a brimstone magpie—leastways Mrs. Smallweed. I come into Krook’s property. I examined all his papers and all his effects. They was all dug out under my eyes. There was a bundle of letters belonging to a dead and gone lodger as was hid away at the back of a shelf in the side of Lady Jane’s bed—his cat’s bed. He hid all manner of things away, everywheres. Mr. Tulkinghorn wanted ‘em and got ‘em, but I looked ‘em over first. I’m a man of business, and I took a squint at ‘em. They was letters from the lodger’s sweetheart, and she signed Honoria. Dear me, that’s not a common name, Honoria, is it? There’s no lady in this house that signs Honoria is there? Oh, no, I don’t think so! Oh, no, I don’t think so! And not in the same hand, perhaps? Oh, no, I don’t think so!’
“我是图尔金霍恩先生的客户和朋友，”祖父斯莫威德当时说道； “我和他做生意。我对他有用，他对我也有用。克鲁克已经死了，他是我的姐夫。他是一只硫喜鹊的兄弟——至少是斯莫威德夫人。我进入了克鲁克的财产。我检查了他所有的文件和所有的物品。都在我眼皮子底下被挖出来了。简夫人的床——他的猫的床——旁边的架子后面藏着一叠属于已故房客的信件。他把各种各样的东西藏起来，到处都是。图金霍恩先生想要它们并且得到了它们，但我先看了它们。我是个生意人，我斜视着他们。这是房客的情人写来的信，她的署名是霍诺丽娅。天哪，这不是一个常见的名字，霍诺丽亚，是吗？这房子里没有一位女士表明霍诺丽娅在吗？哦，不，我不这么认为！哦，不，我不这么认为！也许不是在同一只手上？哦，不，我不这么认为！

Here Mr. Smallweed, seized with a fit of coughing in the midst of his triumph, breaks off to ejaculate, ‘Oh, dear me! Oh, Lord! I’m shaken all to pieces!’
斯莫威德先生在胜利的过程中突然咳嗽起来，突然脱口而出：“哦，天哪！我的天！我浑身颤抖！

‘Now, when you’re ready,’ says Mr. Bucket after awaiting his recovery, ‘to come to anything that concerns Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, here the gentleman sits, you know.’
“现在，当你准备好时，”巴克特先生在等待康复后说道，“来处理任何与莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士有关的事情，男爵，这位先生坐在这里，你知道。”

‘Haven’t I come to it, Mr. Bucket?’ cries Grandfather Smallweed. ‘Isn’t the gentleman concerned yet? Not with Captain Hawdon, and his ever affectionate Honoria, and their child into the bargain? Come, then, I want to know where those letters are. That concerns me, if it don’t concern Sir Leicester Dedlock. I will know where they are. I won’t have ‘em disappear so quietly. I handed ‘em over to my friend and solicitor, Mr. Tulkinghorn, not to anybody else.’
“我还没想到吗，巴克特先生？”斯莫威德爷爷喊道。 ‘先生还不担心吗？不是和霍顿船长、他永远深情的霍诺丽亚以及他们的孩子一起做交易吗？那么，我想知道那些字母在哪里。如果莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士不关心的话，那我也关心。我会知道他们在哪里。我不会让他们就这样悄无声息地消失。我把它们交给了我的朋友兼律师图尔金霍恩先生，而不是其他任何人。

‘Why, he paid you for them, you know, and handsome too,’ says Mr. Bucket.
“哎呀，他付钱给你买的，你知道，而且还很帅，”巴克特先生说。

‘I don’t care for that. I want to know who’s got ‘em. And I tell you what we want—what we all here want, Mr. Bucket. We want more painstaking and search-making into this murder. We know where the interest and the motive was, and you have not done enough. If George the vagabond dragoon had any hand in it, he was only an accomplice, and was set on. You know what I mean as well as any man.’
‘我不在乎这个。我想知道谁拥有它们。我告诉你我们想要什么——我们所有人都想要什么，巴克特先生。我们希望对这起谋杀案进行更深入的调查。我们知道兴趣和动机在哪里，但你们做得还不够。如果流浪龙骑兵乔治参与其中，他也只是同谋，而且是被人陷害的。你和任何人一样明白我的意思。

‘Now I tell you what,’ says Mr. Bucket, instantaneously altering his manner, coming close to him, and communicating an extraordinary fascination to the forefinger, ‘I am damned if I am a-going to have my case spoilt, or interfered with, or anticipated by so much as half a second of time by any human being in creation. YOU want more painstaking and search-making! YOU do? Do you see this hand, and do you think that I don’t know the right time to stretch it out and put it on the arm that fired that shot?’
“现在我告诉你，”巴克特先生说，他立即改变了态度，靠近了他，用食指表达了一种非凡的魅力，“如果我的案子被破坏或受到干扰，我就该死了。”与任何人类在创造中所预期的半秒时间相同或预期。您需要更多的努力和搜索！你做？你看到这只手了吗？你是否认为我不知道何时伸出它并放在开枪的手臂上？

Such is the dread power of the man, and so terribly evident it is that he makes no idle boast, that Mr. Smallweed begins to apologize. Mr. Bucket, dismissing his sudden anger, checks him.
这就是这个人的可怕力量，而且非常明显，他不会无谓地夸耀，斯莫尔韦德先生开始道歉。巴克特先生平复了突然的愤怒，制止了他。

‘The advice I give you is, don’t you trouble your head about the murder. That’s my affair. You keep half an eye on the newspapers, and I shouldn’t wonder if you was to read something about it before long, if you look sharp. I know my business, and that’s all I’ve got to say to you on that subject. Now about those letters. You want to know who’s got ‘em. I don’t mind telling you. I have got ‘em. Is that the packet?’
“我给你的建议是，不要为这起谋杀案而烦恼。那是我的事。你对报纸半睁着眼睛，如果你看起来很敏锐的话，我不应该怀疑你不久后是否会读到一些有关报纸的内容。我知道我的事，这就是我要对你说的关于这个话题的全部内容。现在谈谈那些信。你想知道谁拥有它们。我不介意告诉你。我有它们。那是包裹吗？

Mr. Smallweed looks, with greedy eyes, at the little bundle Mr. Bucket produces from a mysterious part of his coat, and identifles it as the same.
斯莫威德先生用贪婪的眼睛看着巴克特先生从他外套的神秘部分中取出的小捆，并认出它是一样的。

‘What have you got to say next?’ asks Mr. Bucket. ‘Now, don’t open your mouth too wide, because you don’t look handsome when you do it.’
“接下来你有什么要说的？”巴克特先生问道。 “现在，别把嘴张得太大，因为这样你看起来就不帅了。”

‘I want five hundred pound.’
“我想要五百英镑。”

‘No, you don’t; you mean fifty,’ says Mr. Bucket humorously.
“不，你不知道；” “你是说五十。”巴克特先生幽默地说。

It appears, however, that Mr. Smallweed means five hundred.
然而，斯莫威德先生的意思似乎是“五百”。

‘That is, I am deputed by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, to consider (without admitting or promising anything) this bit of business,’ says Mr. Bucket—Sir Leicester mechanically bows his head—‘and you ask me to consider a proposal of five hundred pounds. Why, it’s an unreasonable proposal! Two fifty would be bad enough, but better than that. Hadn’t you better say two fifty?’
“也就是说，莱斯特·戴德洛克男爵爵士委托我考虑（不承认或承诺任何事情）这件事，”巴克特先生说道——莱斯特爵士机械地低下头——“而你让我考虑一项提议五百英镑。为什么，这是一个不合理的提议！二五十已经够糟糕的了，但也比那好。你最好说两点五十分吗？

Mr. Smallweed is quite clear that he had better not.
斯莫威德先生很清楚他最好不要这么做。

‘Then,’ says Mr. Bucket, ‘let’s hear Mr. Chadband. Lord! Many a time I’ve heard my old fellow-serjeant of that name; and a moderate man he was in all respects, as ever I come across!’
“那么，”巴克特先生说，“让我们听听查德班德先生的意见。”主！我曾多次听到我的老同事叫这个名字。正如我所见过的那样，他在各方面都是一个温和的人！

Thus invited, Mr. Chadband steps forth, and after a little sleek smiling and a little oil-grinding with the palms of his hands, delivers himself as follows, ‘My friends, we are now—Rachael, my wife, and I—in the mansions of the rich and great. Why are we now in the mansions of the rich and great, my friends? Is it because we are invited? Because we are bidden to feast with them, because we are bidden to rejoice with them, because we are bidden to play the lute with them, because we are bidden to dance with them? No. Then why are we here, my friends? Air we in possession of a sinful secret, and do we require corn, and wine, and oil, or what is much the same thing, money, for the keeping thereof? Probably so, my friends.’
受到邀请，查德班德先生走上前来，在微微微笑并用手掌打磨了一下之后，他说道：“我的朋友们，我们现在——瑞秋、我的妻子和我——在富人和伟人的豪宅。为什么我们现在住在富人和伟人的豪宅里，我的朋友们？是因为我们被邀请了吗？因为我们被命令与他们一起赴宴，因为我们被命令与他们一起欢乐，因为我们被命令与他们一起弹奏琵琶，因为我们被命令与他们一起跳舞？不，那我们为什么在这里呢，我的朋友们？我们拥有罪恶的秘密，我们是否需要谷物、酒和油，或者同样的东西，金钱，来保存这些秘密？可能是这样，我的朋友们。

‘You’re a man of business, you are,’ returns Mr. Bucket, very attentive, ‘and consequently you’re going on to mention what the nature of your secret is. You are right. You couldn’t do better.’
“你是个生意人，确实如此，”巴克特先生非常专心地回答道，“因此你会继续提到你的秘密的本质是什么。”你是对的。你不能做得更好了。

‘Let us then, my brother, in a spirit of love,’ says Mr. Chadband with a cunning eye, ‘proceed unto it. Rachael, my wife, advance!’
“那么，我的兄弟，让我们本着爱的精神，”查德班德先生用狡猾的眼睛说道，“继续前进吧。”瑞秋，我的妻子，前进！

Mrs. Chadband, more than ready, so advances as to jostle her husband into the background and confronts Mr. Bucket with a hard, frowning smile.
查德班德夫人已经做好了充分的准备，她走上前去，把她的丈夫挤到了后面，面对巴克特先生，脸上皱着眉头，脸上露出冷酷的微笑。

‘Since you want to know what we know,’ says she, ‘I’ll tell you. I helped to bring up Miss Hawdon, her ladyship’s daughter. I was in the service of her ladyship’s sister, who was very sensitive to the disgrace her ladyship brought upon her, and gave out, even to her ladyship, that the child was dead—she WAS very nearly so—when she was born. But she’s alive, and I know her.’ With these words, and a laugh, and laying a bitter stress on the word ‘ladyship,’ Mrs. Chadband folds her arms and looks implacably at Mr. Bucket.
“既然你想知道我们所知道的，”她说，“我就告诉你。”我帮助抚养了夫人的女儿霍顿小姐。我为夫人的妹妹服务，她对夫人给她带来的耻辱非常敏感，甚至向夫人透露，孩子出生时就已经死了——她几乎就死了。但她还活着，我认识她。”查德班德太太一边说着这句话，一边大笑着，狠狠地强调了“女士”这个词，然后抱起双臂，一脸不情愿地看着巴克特先生。

‘I suppose now,’ returns that officer, ‘YOU will he expecting a twenty-pound note or a present of about that figure?’
“我想，”那位军官回答道，“您会期待一张二十英镑的钞票还是一份价值大约这个数字的礼物吗？”

Mrs. Chadband merely laughs and contemptuously tells him he can ‘offer’ twenty pence.
查德班德夫人只是笑了笑，轻蔑地告诉他他可以“提供”二十便士。

‘My friend the law-stationer’s good lady, over there,’ says Mr. Bucket, luring Mrs. Snagsby forward with the finger. ‘What may YOUR game be, ma’am?’
“我的朋友，法律站的好女士，就在那边。”巴克特先生一边说，一边用手指引诱斯纳斯比太太向前走。 “女士，您想玩什么游戏？”

Mrs. Snagsby is at first prevented, by tears and lamentations, from stating the nature of her game, but by degrees it confusedly comes to light that she is a woman overwhelmed with injuries and wrongs, whom Mr. Snagsby has habitually deceived, abandoned, and sought to keep in darkness, and whose chief comfort, under her afflictions, has been the sympathy of the late Mr. Tulkinghorn, who showed so much commiseration for her on one occasion of his calling in Cook’s Court in the absence of her perjured husband that she has of late habitually carried to him all her woes. Everybody it appears, the present company excepted, has plotted against Mrs. Snagsby’s peace. There is Mr. Guppy, clerk to Kenge and Carboy, who was at first as open as the sun at noon, but who suddenly shut up as close as midnight, under the influence—no doubt—of Mr. Snagsby’s suborning and tampering. There is Mr. Weevle, friend of Mr. Guppy, who lived mysteriously up a court, owing to the like coherent causes. There was Krook, deceased; there was Nimrod, deceased; and there was Jo, deceased; and they were ‘all in it.’ In what, Mrs. Snagsby does not with particularity express, but she knows that Jo was Mr. Snagsby’s son, ‘as well as if a trumpet had spoken it,’ and she followed Mr. Snagsby when he went on his last visit to the boy, and if he was not his son why did he go? The one occupation of her life has been, for some time back, to follow Mr. Snagsby to and fro, and up and down, and to piece suspicious circumstances together—and every circumstance that has happened has been most suspicious; and in this way she has pursued her object of detecting and confounding her false husband, night and day. Thus did it come to pass that she brought the Chadbands and Mr. Tulkinghorn together, and conferred with Mr. Tulkinghorn on the change in Mr. Guppy, and helped to turn up the circumstances in which the present company are interested, casually, by the wayside, being still and ever on the great high road that is to terminate in Mr. Snagsby’s full exposure and a matrimonial separation. All this, Mrs. Snagsby, as an injured woman, and the friend of Mrs. Chadband, and the follower of Mr. Chadband, and the mourner of the late Mr. Tulkinghorn, is here to certify under the seal of confidence, with every possible confusion and involvement possible and impossible, having no pecuniary motive whatever, no scheme or project but the one mentioned, and bringing here, and taking everywhere, her own dense atmosphere of dust, arising from the ceaseless working of her mill of jealousy.
斯纳斯比夫人起初因泪水和哀叹而无法说出她的游戏的本质，但渐渐地，人们困惑地发现她是一个被伤害和错误压垮的女人，斯纳斯比先生习惯性地欺骗、抛弃她，并试图保持在黑暗中，在她的痛苦中，她的主要安慰是已故图尔金霍恩先生的同情，他有一次在她作伪证的丈夫不在场的情况下拜访库克法院时，对她表现出了极大的同情她最近习惯性地把所有的不幸都倾诉给他。除了现在的公司之外，似乎每个人都在密谋破坏斯纳格斯比夫人的和平。还有肯吉和卡博伊公司的职员古皮先生，他一开始像正午的太阳一样开放，但在接近午夜时突然闭嘴，毫无疑问是受到斯纳斯比先生的收买和篡改的影响。韦夫勒先生是古比先生的朋友，由于类似的连贯原因，他神秘地住在法庭上。克鲁克已经死了。那里有已故的宁录；乔已经死了。他们“都在其中。”斯纳斯比夫人没有具体表达，但她知道乔是斯纳斯比先生的儿子，“就好像喇叭说的一样”，她跟着斯纳斯比先生当他最后一次去看望那个男孩时，如果他不是他的儿子，他为什么要去？一段时间以来，她一生的唯一任务就是跟着斯纳斯比先生来来回回，把可疑的情况拼凑起来——而每一次发生的情况都是最可疑的；就这样，她日日夜夜地追求着查出并迷惑她的假丈夫的目标。因此，她把查德班德夫妇和图金霍恩先生召集在一起，并与查德班德先生商量。 图金霍恩谈了古比先生的变化，并帮助发现了目前公司感兴趣的情况，随意地，在路边，静止不动，永远走在斯纳格斯比先生的全面曝光和终止的伟大道路上。婚姻分居。所有这一切，斯纳格斯比夫人，作为一名受伤的妇女，查德班德夫人的朋友，查德班德先生的追随者，以及已故图尔金霍恩先生的哀悼者，在此以信任的方式证明，可能的混乱和卷入可能和不可能，没有任何金钱动机，除了提到的那个之外没有任何计划或计划，并把她自己的浓密的灰尘带到这里，带到各处，这是她嫉妒工厂不断运转所产生的。

While this exordium is in hand—and it takes some time—Mr. Bucket, who has seen through the transparency of Mrs. Snagsby’s vinegar at a glance, confers with his familiar demon and bestows his shrewd attention on the Chadbands and Mr. Smallweed. Sir Leicester Dedlock remains immovable, with the same icy surface upon him, except that he once or twice looks towards Mr. Bucket, as relying on that officer alone of all mankind.
虽然这篇序言已经在手——而且需要一些时间——先生。巴克特一眼就看穿了斯纳斯比夫人的醋的透明性，他与他熟悉的恶魔商量，并将他精明的注意力集中在查德班德一家和斯莫威德先生身上。莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士仍然一动不动，脸上同样冰冷，只是他有一两次看向巴克特先生，因为他信赖全人类中唯一的那位军官。

‘Very good,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Now I understand you, you know, and being deputed by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, to look into this little matter,’ again Sir Leicester mechanically bows in confirmation of the statement, ‘can give it my fair and full attention. Now I won’t allude to conspiring to extort money or anything of that sort, because we are men and women of the world here, and our object is to make things pleasant. But I tell you what I DO wonder at; I am surprised that you should think of making a noise below in the hall. It was so opposed to your interests. That’s what I look at.’
“非常好，”巴克特先生说。 “现在我理解你了，你知道，由莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士委托调查这件小事，”莱斯特爵士再次机械地鞠躬以确认这一说法，“可以给予我公平和充分的关注。”现在我不会提及密谋勒索金钱或任何类似的事情，因为我们是这里的男人和女人，我们的目标是让事情变得愉快。但我告诉你我真正想知道的是什么；我很惊讶你竟然想在下面的大厅里制造噪音。这太违背你的利益了。这就是我所看到的。

‘We wanted to get in,’ pleads Mr. Smallweed.
“我们想进去，”斯莫威德先生恳求道。

‘Why, of course you wanted to get in,’ Mr. Bucket asserts with cheerfulness; ‘but for a old gentleman at your time of life—what I call truly venerable, mind you!—with his wits sharpened, as I have no doubt they are, by the loss of the use of his limbs, which occasions all his animation to mount up into his head, not to consider that if he don’t keep such a business as the present as close as possible it can’t be worth a mag to him, is so curious! You see your temper got the better of you; that’s where you lost ground,’ says Mr. Bucket in an argumentative and friendly way.
“嘿，你当然想进去，”巴克特先生高兴地断言。 “但是对于你这个年纪的一位老绅士来说——请注意，我称之为真正可敬的人！——他的智慧变得敏锐，我毫不怀疑，由于失去了四肢的使用能力，他所有的活力都消失了他脑子里浮现出这样的想法，而不是考虑到如果他不尽可能地保留这样的事情，那么它对他来说就不值一本杂志，真是太好奇了！你发现你的脾气控制住了你； “这就是你失利的地方。”巴克特先生以一种好辩而友好的方式说道。

‘I only said I wouldn’t go without one of the servants came up to Sir Leicester Dedlock,’ returns Mr. Smallweed.
“我只是说过，如果没有一名仆人来到莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士面前，我就不会去，”斯莫威德先生回答道。

‘That’s it! That’s where your temper got the better of you. Now, you keep it under another time and you’ll make money by it. Shall I ring for them to carry you down?’
'就是这样！这就是你的脾气占了上风的地方。现在，你把它保留在另一个时间，你就会从中赚钱。要我按铃叫他们把你抱下来吗？

‘When are we to hear more of this?’ Mrs. Chadband sternly demands.
“我们什么时候才能听到更多这样的消息？”查德班德夫人严厉地问道。

‘Bless your heart for a true woman! Always curious, your delightful sex is!’ replies Mr. Bucket with gallantry. ‘I shall have the pleasure of giving you a call to-morrow or next day—not forgetting Mr. Smallweed and his proposal of two fifty.’
‘祝福你的心成为一个真正的女人！总是充满好奇，你的性爱令人愉悦！”巴克特先生殷勤地回答道。 “我很高兴明天或后天给你打电话——不要忘记斯莫威德先生和他提出的两点五十的提议。”

‘Five hundred!’ exclaims Mr. Smallweed.
“五百！”斯莫威德先生喊道。

‘All right! Nominally five hundred.’ Mr. Bucket has his hand on the bell-rope. ‘SHALL I wish you good day for the present on the part of myself and the gentleman of the house?’ he asks in an insinuating tone.
'好的！名义上是五百。”巴克特先生把手放在铃绳上。 “我可以代表我自己和家里的绅士祝你今天过得愉快吗？”他用含沙射影的语气问道。

Nobody having the hardihood to object to his doing so, he does it, and the party retire as they came up. Mr. Bucket follows them to the door, and returning, says with an air of serious business, ‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, it’s for you to consider whether or not to buy this up. I should recommend, on the whole, it’s being bought up myself; and I think it may be bought pretty cheap. You see, that little pickled cowcumber of a Mrs. Snagsby has been used by all sides of the speculation and has done a deal more harm in bringing odds and ends together than if she had meant it. Mr. Tulkinghorn, deceased, he held all these horses in his hand and could have drove ‘em his own way, I haven’t a doubt; but he was fetched off the box head-foremost, and now they have got their legs over the traces, and are all dragging and pulling their own ways. So it is, and such is life. The cat’s away, and the mice they play; the frost breaks up, and the water runs. Now, with regard to the party to be apprehended.’
没有人有勇气反对他这样做，他就这么做了，然后党就退出了。巴克特先生跟着他们到了门口，回来后一本正经地说：“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，你应该考虑是否买下这个。”我应该建议，总的来说，它是我自己买的；我认为它可能会买得很便宜。你看，斯纳斯比夫人的那个小腌黄瓜已经被各方的猜测所利用，并且在将零碎的东西放在一起时造成的伤害比她故意的要大得多。图金霍恩先生，已故，他手里握着所有这些马，可以按照自己的方式驾驭它们，我毫不怀疑；但他是头朝前被从箱子上拉下来的，现在他们已经把腿踩在了铁轨上，都在拖着自己的路走。如此，人生亦如此。猫走了，老鼠又玩；霜消，水流。现在，关于被逮捕的一方。

Sir Leicester seems to wake, though his eyes have been wide open, and he looks intently at Mr. Bucket as Mr. Bucket refers to his watch.
莱斯特爵士似乎醒了，尽管他的眼睛睁得大大的，当巴克特先生指着他的手表时，他专心地看着巴克特先生。

‘The party to be apprehended is now in this house,’ proceeds Mr. Bucket, putting up his watch with a steady hand and with rising spirits, ‘and I’m about to take her into custody in your presence. Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, don’t you say a word nor yet stir. There’ll be no noise and no disturbance at all. I’ll come back in the course of the evening, if agreeable to you, and endeavour to meet your wishes respecting this unfortunate family matter and the nobbiest way of keeping it quiet. Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, don’t you be nervous on account of the apprehension at present coming off. You shall see the whole case clear, from first to last.’
“要逮捕的人现在就在这所房子里，”巴克特先生继续说道，他的手稳稳地竖起手表，精神抖擞，“我要在你在场的情况下将她拘留。”莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，你先别说话，也别动一下。不会有任何噪音，也不会受到任何干扰。如果您同意的话，我会在晚上回来，并尽力满足您的愿望，尊重这个不幸的家庭问题，并以最高尚的方式保持沉默。现在，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，您不要因为目前的忧虑而紧张。你会清楚地看到整个案子，从头到尾。”

Mr. Bucket rings, goes to the door, briefly whispers Mercury, shuts the door, and stands behind it with his arms folded. After a suspense of a minute or two the door slowly opens and a Frenchwoman enters. Mademoiselle Hortense.
巴克特先生按响了铃声，走到门口，低声对墨丘利说了几句，然后关上门，抱臂站在门后。一两分钟的悬念之后，门缓缓打开，一位法国女人走了进来。霍滕斯小姐。

The moment she is in the room Mr. Bucket claps the door to and puts his back against it. The suddenness of the noise occasions her to turn, and then for the first time she sees Sir Leicester Dedlock in his chair.
她一进房间，巴克特先生就拍响了门，背靠在门上。突然的噪音让她转过身来，然后她第一次看到莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士坐在椅子上。

‘I ask you pardon,’ she mutters hurriedly. ‘They tell me there was no one here.’
“请原谅，”她急忙低声说道。 “他们告诉我这里没人。”

Her step towards the door brings her front to front with Mr. Bucket. Suddenly a spasm shoots across her face and she turns deadly pale.
她朝门口迈出一步，与巴克特先生面对面。突然，她的脸一阵痉挛，脸色变得惨白。

‘This is my lodger, Sir Leicester Dedlock,’ says Mr. Bucket, nodding at her. ‘This foreign young woman has been my lodger for some weeks back.’
“这是我的房客，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，”巴克特先生向她点点头说道。 “几周前，这位外国年轻女子一直是我的房客。”

‘What do Sir Leicester care for that, you think, my angel?’ returns mademoiselle in a jocular strain.
“我的天使，你认为莱斯特爵士关心这个有什么用？”小姐用一种幽默的语调回答道。

‘Why, my angel,’ returns Mr. Bucket, ‘we shall see.’
“噢，我的天使，”巴克特先生回答道，“我们拭目以待吧。”

Mademoiselle Hortense eyes him with a scowl upon her tight face, which gradually changes into a smile of scorn, ‘You are very mysterieuse. Are you drunk?’
霍顿斯小姐紧张地看着他，脸上的表情逐渐变得阴沉，逐渐变成了轻蔑的微笑，“你真是个神秘的人。”你醉了吗？'

‘Tolerable sober, my angel,’ returns Mr. Bucket.
“还算清醒，我的天使，”巴克特先生回答道。

‘I come from arriving at this so detestable house with your wife. Your wife have left me since some minutes. They tell me downstairs that your wife is here. I come here, and your wife is not here. What is the intention of this fool’s play, say then?’ mademoiselle demands, with her arms composedly crossed, but with something in her dark cheek beating like a clock.
“我是和你的妻子一起来到这个如此可憎的房子的。你的妻子几分钟后就离开了我。他们在楼下告诉我你的妻子在这里。我来了，你老婆不在。那么，你说这个傻瓜游戏的目的是什么？”小姐问，她双臂泰然地交叉，但她黝黑的脸颊上有什么东西像时钟一样跳动。

Mr. Bucket merely shakes the finger at her.
巴克特先生只是对她摇了摇手指。

‘Ah, my God, you are an unhappy idiot!’ cries mademoiselle with a toss of her head and a laugh. ‘Leave me to pass downstairs, great pig.’ With a stamp of her foot and a menace.
“啊，我的上帝，你真是个不快乐的白痴！”小姐一边摇头一边笑道。 “让我下楼去吧，大猪。”她跺着脚，威胁道。

‘Now, mademoiselle,’ says Mr. Bucket in a cool determined way, ‘you go and sit down upon that sofy.’
“现在，小姐，”巴克特先生冷静而坚定地说，“你去坐在那张沙发上。”

‘I will not sit down upon nothing,’ she replies with a shower of nods.
“我不会在任何事情上坐下来，”她连连点头回答道。

‘Now, mademoiselle,’ repeats Mr. Bucket, making no demonstration except with the finger, ‘you sit down upon that sofy.’
“现在，小姐，”巴克特先生重复道，除了用手指做任何动作，“你坐在那个沙发上。”

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

‘Because I take you into custody on a charge of murder, and you don’t need to be told it. Now, I want to be polite to one of your sex and a foreigner if I can. If I can’t, I must be rough, and there’s rougher ones outside. What I am to be depends on you. So I recommend you, as a friend, afore another half a blessed moment has passed over your head, to go and sit down upon that sofy.’
“因为我以谋杀罪将你拘留，而你不需要被告知这一点。现在，如果可以的话，我想对一位女性和一位外国人有礼貌。如果我做不到，我一定很粗暴，外面还有更粗暴的。我要成为什么样的人取决于你。所以我建议你，作为朋友，在又一个幸福的时刻从你的脑海中过去之前，去坐在那个沙发上。

Mademoiselle complies, saying in a concentrated voice while that something in her cheek beats fast and hard, ‘You are a devil.’
小姐照办了，脸颊上有什么东西快速有力地跳动着，她用专注的声音说道：“你是个魔鬼。”

‘Now, you see,’ Mr. Bucket proceeds approvingly, ‘you’re comfortable and conducting yourself as I should expect a foreign young woman of your sense to do. So I’ll give you a piece of advice, and it’s this, don’t you talk too much. You’re not expected to say anything here, and you can’t keep too quiet a tongue in your head. In short, the less you PARLAY, the better, you know.’ Mr. Bucket is very complacent over this French explanation.
“现在，你看，”巴克特先生赞许地继续说道，“你很自在，举止也很自在，就像我期望像你这样理智的外国年轻女子会做的事。”所以我给你一个建议，就是这个，你不要说太多。你不应该在这里说任何话，而且你也不能在脑子里保持沉默。简而言之，你知道，赌注越少越好。”巴克特先生对法国人的解释非常满意。

Mademoiselle, with that tigerish expansion of the mouth and her black eyes darting fire upon him, sits upright on the sofa in a rigid state, with her hands clenched—and her feet too, one might suppose—muttering, ‘Oh, you Bucket, you are a devil!’
小姐张大了嘴巴，黑色的眼睛向他射出火光，她笔直地坐在沙发上，双手紧握——人们可能会认为，她的脚也是紧握的——嘟囔道：“哦，你这个桶子，你是个魔鬼！

‘Now, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,’ says Mr. Bucket, and from this time forth the finger never rests, ‘this young woman, my lodger, was her ladyship’s maid at the time I have mentioned to you; and this young woman, besides being extraordinary vehement and passionate against her ladyship after being discharged—‘
“现在，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，”巴克特先生说，从这时起，他的手指就再也没有停过，“这个年轻的女人，我的房客，在我向您提到的时候，是她夫人的女仆；她是我的房客。”这位年轻的女士，除了在出院后对她的夫人表现出异常强烈的热情之外——”

‘Lie!’ cries mademoiselle. ‘I discharge myself.’
“撒谎！”小姐喊道。 “我释放自己。”

‘Now, why don’t you take my advice?’ returns Mr. Bucket in an impressive, almost in an imploring, tone. ‘I’m surprised at the indiscreetness you commit. You’ll say something that’ll be used against you, you know. You’re sure to come to it. Never you mind what I say till it’s given in evidence. It is not addressed to you.’
“现在，你为什么不接受我的建议呢？”巴克特先生以一种令人印象深刻、几乎是恳求的语气回答道。 “我对你的轻率行为感到惊讶。你知道，你会说一些会被用来对付你的话。你一定会遇到的。在提供证据之前，你别介意我说的话。这不是写给你的。

‘Discharge, too,’ cries mademoiselle furiously, ‘by her ladyship! Eh, my faith, a pretty ladyship! Why, I r-r-r-ruin my character hy remaining with a ladyship so infame!’
“也罢免吧，”小姐愤怒地喊道，“以夫人名义！”呃，我的信仰，一位漂亮的女士！为什么，我因为和一位如此臭名昭著的女士在一起而毁了我的品格！

‘Upon my soul I wonder at you!’ Mr. Bucket remonstrates. ‘I thought the French were a polite nation, I did, really. Yet to hear a female going on like that before Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet!’
“我发自内心地对你感到好奇！”巴克特先生抗议道。 “我认为法国人是一个有礼貌的国家，我确实如此。但在莱斯特·戴德洛克男爵爵士面前却听到一个女人这样说话！

‘He is a poor abused!’ cries mademoiselle. ‘I spit upon his house, upon his name, upon his imbecility,’ all of which she makes the carpet represent. ‘Oh, that he is a great man! Oh, yes, superb! Oh, heaven! Bah!’
“他是一个可怜的受虐者！”小姐喊道。 “我向他的房子、他的名字、他的愚蠢吐口水”，她让地毯代表了这一切。 ‘噢，但愿他是一个伟大的人！哦，是的，太棒了！哦，天堂！呸！'

‘Well, Sir Leicester Dedlock,’ proceeds Mr. Bucket, ‘this intemperate foreigner also angrily took it into her head that she had established a claim upon Mr. Tulkinghorn, deceased, by attending on the occasion I told you of at his chambers, though she was liberally paid for her time and trouble.’
“好吧，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，”巴克特先生继续说道，“这个放纵的外国人也愤怒地认为，她参加了我告诉过你的在图金霍恩先生的房间里的活动，从而对已故的图尔金霍恩先生提出了索赔，尽管她的时间和麻烦得到了丰厚的报酬。

‘Lie!’ cries mademoiselle. ‘I ref-use his money all togezzer.’
“撒谎！”小姐喊道。 “我拒绝全部使用他的钱。”

‘If you WILL PARLAY, you know,’ says Mr. Bucket parenthetically, ‘you must take the consequences. Now, whether she became my lodger, Sir Leicester Dedlock, with any deliberate intention then of doing this deed and blinding me, I give no opinion on; but she lived in my house in that capacity at the time that she was hovering about the chambers of the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn with a view to a wrangle, and likewise persecuting and half frightening the life out of an unfortunate stationer.’
“你知道，如果你愿意赌注，”巴克特先生插话道，“你就必须承担后果。”现在，无论她成为我的房客，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，当时是否有任何故意做这件事并使我失明的意图，我不发表任何意见；但她当时就住在我家，她在已故的图尔金霍恩先生的房间里徘徊，目的是为了一场争吵，同样地迫害和半威胁一个不幸的文具店员的生命。

‘Lie!’ cries mademoiselle. ‘All lie!’
“撒谎！”小姐喊道。 “全都是谎言！”

‘The murder was commttted, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, and you know under what circumstances. Now, I beg of you to follow me close with your attention for a minute or two. I was sent for, and the case was entrusted to me. I examined the place, and the body, and the papers, and everything. From information I received (from a clerk in the same house) I took George into custody as having been seen hanging about there on the night, and at very nigh the time of the murder, also as having been overheard in high words with the deceased on former occasions—even threatening him, as the witness made out. If you ask me, Sir Leicester Dedlock, whether from the first I believed George to be the murderer, I tell you candidly no, but he might be, notwithstanding, and there was enough against him to make it my duty to take him and get him kept under remand. Now, observe!’
“谋杀是发生的，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，你知道是在什么情况下发生的。现在，我请求你集中注意力跟随我一两分钟。我被叫来了，这个案子就交给我了。我检查了这个地方、尸体、文件以及一切。根据我收到的信息（来自同一所房子的一名职员），我将乔治拘留，因为有人看到乔治在那儿闲逛，而且是在谋杀发生的非常接近的时候，也有人无意中听到他与死者高声交谈。正如目击者所表明的那样，以前有过几次，甚至威胁过他。如果你问我，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，我是否从一开始就相信乔治是凶手，我坦率地告诉你不，但他可能是，尽管如此，而且有足够多的证据对他不利，使我有责任抓住他并得到他的帮助。他仍被还押。现在，观察！

As Mr. Bucket bends forward in some excitement—for him—and inaugurates what he is going to say with one ghostly beat of his forefinger in the air, Mademoiselle Hortense fixes her black eyes upon him with a dark frown and sets her dry lips closely and firmly together.
当巴克特先生兴奋地向前倾身——为了他——并用食指在空中幽灵般地一击开始他要说的话时，霍顿斯小姐用她的黑眼睛紧紧地皱着眉头，紧紧地盯着他。并牢固地结合在一起。

‘I went home, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, at night and found this young woman having supper with my wife, Mrs. Bucket. She had made a mighty show of being fond of Mrs. Bucket from her first offering herself as our lodger, but that night she made more than ever—in fact, overdid it. Likewise she overdid her respect, and all that, for the lamented memory of the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn. By the living Lord it flashed upon me, as I sat opposite to her at the table and saw her with a knife in her hand, that she had done it!’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，我晚上回家时发现这位年轻女子正在和我的妻子巴克特夫人一起吃晚饭。从她第一次主动提出做我们的房客开始，她就表现出了对巴克特太太的喜爱，但那天晚上她赚得比以往任何时候都多——事实上，做得太过分了。同样，她对已故的图尔金霍恩先生的哀悼也过分尊敬了。当我坐在桌边她对面，看到她手里拿着一把刀时，我突然意识到，她已经做到了！

Mademoiselle is hardly audible in straining through her teeth and lips the words, ‘You are a devil.’
小姐从牙齿和嘴唇中挤出这句话，声音几乎听不见：“你是个魔鬼。”

‘Now where,’ pursues Mr. Bucket, ‘had she been on the night of the murder? She had been to the theayter. (She really was there, I have since found, both before the deed and after it.) I knew I had an artful customer to deal with and that proof would be very difficult; and I laid a trap for her—such a trap as I never laid yet, and such a venture as I never made yet. I worked it out in my mind while I was talking to her at supper. When I went upstairs to bed, our house being small and this young woman’s ears sharp, I stuffed the sheet into Mrs. Bucket’s mouth that she shouldn’t say a word of surprise and told her all about it. My dear, don’t you give your mind to that again, or I shall link your feet together at the ankles.’ Mr. Bucket, breaking off, has made a noiseless descent upon mademoiselle and laid his heavy hand upon her shoulder.
“现在，”巴克特先生追问，“谋杀案发生当晚她在哪里？”她去过剧院。 （我后来发现，无论是在事前还是事后，她确实在那儿。） 我知道我要和一位狡猾的客户打交道，而要证明这一点将非常困难；因为我知道，我需要与一位狡猾的客户打交道。我为她设下了一个陷阱——我还从来没有设过这样的陷阱，也从来没有做过这样的冒险。晚饭时我和她聊天时在心里想出了这个办法。当我上楼睡觉时，我们的房子很小，而这个年轻女人的耳朵很尖，我把床单塞进巴克特太太的嘴里，让她不要说一句惊讶的话，然后把这一切都告诉了她。亲爱的，你别再这么想了，不然我就把你的脚踝连在一起了。”巴克特先生突然停下来，悄无声息地向小姐走去，用沉重的手搭在她的肩膀上。

‘What is the matter with you now?’ she asks him.
“你现在怎么了？”她问他。

‘Don’t you think any more,’ returns Mr. Bucket with admonitory finger, ‘of throwing yourself out of window. That’s what’s the matter with me. Come! Just take my arm. You needn’t get up; I’ll sit down by you. Now take my arm, will you? I’m a married man, you know; you’re acquainted with my wife. Just take my arm.’
“你别再想了，”巴克特先生用手指警告道，“从窗户跳下去。”这就是我的问题。来！只要握住我的手臂。你不必起床；我会坐在你旁边。现在握住我的手臂，好吗？你知道，我是一个已婚男人；你认识我的妻子。握住我的手臂。

Vaiuly endeavouring to moisten those dry lips, with a painful sound she struggles with herself and complies.
她努力想要滋润干燥的嘴唇，发出痛苦的声音，她与自己挣扎着，然后答应了。

‘Now we’re all right again. Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, this case could never have been the case it is but for Mrs. Bucket, who is a woman in fifty thousand—in a hundred and fifty thousand! To throw this young woman off her guard, I have never set foot in our house since, though I’ve communicated with Mrs. Bucket in the baker’s loaves and in the milk as often as required. My whispered words to Mrs. Bucket when she had the sheet in her mouth were, ‘My dear, can you throw her off continually with natural accounts of my suspicions against George, and this, and that, and t’other? Can you do without rest and keep watch upon her night and day? Can you undertake to say, ‘She shall do nothing without my knowledge, she shall be my prisoner without suspecting it, she shall no more escape from me than from death, and her life shall be my life, and her soul my soul, till I have got her, if she did this murder?‘‘ Mrs. Bucket says to me, as well as she could speak on account of the sheet, ‘Bucket, I can!’ And she has acted up to it glorious!’
‘现在我们又好了。莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，如果不是巴克特太太，这个案子不可能是现在这样，她是个五万——十五万的女人！让这位年轻女子措手不及的是，从那以后我就再也没有踏进过我们家，尽管我经常根据需要在面包和牛奶中与巴克特太太进行交流。当巴克特太太把床单放进嘴里时，我低声对她说：“亲爱的，你能不断地用自然的方式把我对乔治的怀疑、这个、那个、其他的事情甩掉吗？”你能不休息，日夜守护她吗？你能承诺说，“在我不知情的情况下，她不会做任何事，她将毫不怀疑地成为我的囚犯，她不会像逃脱死亡一样逃脱我，她的生命将是我的生命，她的灵魂将是我的灵魂，直到“如果她干了这起谋杀案，我已经抓到她了？”巴克特太太对我说道，她可以通过床单说话，“巴克特，我可以！”而且她表现得很光荣！

‘Lies!’ mademoiselle interposes. ‘All lies, my friend!’
“谎言！”小姐插话道。 “全是谎言，我的朋友！”

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, how did my calculations come out under these circumstances? When I calculated that this impetuous young woman would overdo it in new directions, was I wrong or right? I was right. What does she try to do? Don’t let it give you a turn? To throw the murder on her ladyship.’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，在这种情况下我的计算结果是怎样的？当我计算出这个浮躁的年轻女子会在新的方向上做得太过分时，我是错还是对？我是对的。她想做什么？不让它给你机会吗？把谋杀罪归咎于夫人。”

Sir Leicester rises from his chair and staggers down again.
莱斯特爵士从椅子上站起来，又踉踉跄跄地坐了下来。

‘And she got encouragement in it from hearing that I was always here, which was done a-purpose. Now, open that pocket-book of mine, Sir Leicester Dedlock, if I may take the liberty of throwing it towards you, and look at the letters sent to me, each with the two words ‘Lady Dedlock’ in it. Open the one directed to yourself, which I stopped this very morning, and read the three words ‘Lady Dedlock, Murderess’ in it. These letters have been falling about like a shower of lady-birds. What do you say now to Mrs. Bucket, from her spy-place having seen them all ‘written by this young woman? What do you say to Mrs. Bucket having, within this halfhour, secured the corresponding ink and paper, fellow half-sheets and what not? What do you say to Mrs. Bucket having watched the posting of ‘em every one by this young woman, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet?’ Mr. Bucket asks, triumphant in his admiration of his lady’s genius.
“当她听说我一直在这里时，她受到了鼓励，这是有目的的。现在，请打开我的钱包，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，请允许我冒昧地把它扔给您，看看寄给我的信，每封信中都写着“戴德洛克夫人”两个字。打开今天早上我写给你自己的那封信，读到里面写着“戴德洛克夫人，女凶手”三个字。这些信件像瓢虫雨一样飘落下来。当你从她的间谍处看到这些都是‘这个年轻女人写的’之后，你现在对巴克特夫人说些什么呢？你对巴克特太太在这半小时内弄到相应的墨水和纸张、半页纸之类的东西有什么看法？看到这位年轻女士，莱斯特·戴德洛克男爵爵士发布的每一篇文章后，您对巴克特夫人有何看法？”巴克特先生问道，他对夫人的天才表示钦佩。

Two things are especially observable as Mr. Bucket proceeds to a conclusion. First, that he seems imperceptibly to establish a dreadful right of property in mademoiselle. Secondly, that the very atmosphere she breathes seems to narrow and contract about her as if a close net or a pall were being drawn nearer and yet nearer around her breathless figure.
当巴克特先生得出结论时，有两件事特别值得注意。首先，他似乎不知不觉地在小姐身上建立了可怕的财产权。其次，她呼吸的空气似乎在她周围变得狭窄和收缩，仿佛一张紧密的网或一层帷幕被拉得越来越近，包围着她喘不过气来的身影。

‘There is no doubt that her ladyship was on the spot at the eventful period,’ says Mr. Bucket, ‘and my foreign friend here saw her, I believe, from the upper part of the staircase. Her ladyship and George and my foreign friend were all pretty close on one another’s heels. But that don’t signify any more, so I’ll not go into it. I found the wadding of the pistol with which the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn was shot. It was a bit of the printed description of your house at Chesney Wold. Not much in that, you’ll say, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. No. But when my foreign friend here is so thoroughly off her guard as to think it a safe time to tear up the rest of that leaf, and when Mrs. Bucket puts the pieces together and finds the wadding wanting, it begins to look like Queer Street.’
“毫无疑问，在这个多事之秋，她的夫人就在现场，”巴克特先生说，“我相信，我的外国朋友是从楼梯的上部看到她的。”夫人、乔治和我的外国朋友都紧追不舍。但这已经没有任何意义了，所以我不再赘述。我发现了向已故的图金霍恩先生开枪的手枪的填充物。这是你在切斯尼沃尔德的房子的一些印刷描述。你会说，这没什么，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵。不。但是，当我的外国朋友完全失去了警惕，认为现在是撕掉那片叶子的其余部分的安全时机时，当巴克特夫人将碎片放在一起并发现填充物不足时，它开始看起来像酷儿街。

‘These are very long lies,’ mademoiselle interposes. ‘You prose great deal. Is it that you have almost all finished, or are you speaking always?’
“这些都是很长的谎言，”小姐插话道。 ‘你的散文写得很好。是你几乎都说完了，还是你一直在说话？

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet,’ proceeds Mr. Bucket, who delights in a full title and does violence to himself when he dispenses with any fragment of it, ‘the last point in the case which I am now going to mention shows the necessity of patience in our business, and never doing a thing in a hurry. I watched this young woman yesterday without her knowledge when she was looking at the funeral, in company with my wife, who planned to take her there; and I had so much to convict her, and I saw such an expression in her face, and my mind so rose against her malice towards her ladyship, and the time was altogether such a time for bringing down what you may call retribution upon her, that if I had been a younger hand with less experience, I should have taken her, certain. Equally, last night, when her ladyship, as is so universally admired I am sure, come home looking—why, Lord, a man might almost say like Venus rising from the ocean—it was so unpleasant and inconsistent to think of her being charged with a murder of which she was innocent that I felt quite to want to put an end to the job. What should I have lost? Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I should have lost the weapon. My prisoner here proposed to Mrs. Bucket, after the departure of the funeral, that they should go per bus a little ways into the country and take tea at a very decent house of entertainment. Now, near that house of entertainment there’s a piece of water. At tea, my prisoner got up to fetch her pocket handkercher from the bedroom where the bonnets was; she was rather a long time gone and came back a little out of wind. As soon as they came home this was reported to me by Mrs. Bucket, along with her observations and suspicions. I had the piece of water dragged by moonlight, in presence of a couple of our men, and the pocket pistol was brought up before it had been there half-a-dozen hours. Now, my dear, put your arm a little further through mine, and hold it steady, and I shan’t hurt you!’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，”巴克特先生接着说，他喜欢完整的头衔，当他放弃它的任何片段时，他就对自己施暴，“我现在要提到的案件的最后一点表明了必要性”在我们的工作中要有耐心，从不匆忙做事。昨天，当这位年轻女子和我的妻子一起参加葬礼时，我在她不知情的情况下看到了她，我的妻子打算带她去那里。我有太多的理由要给她定罪，我在她脸上看到了这样的表情，我的思想因此而升起，反对她对夫人的恶意，现在正是对她进行你所谓的报应的时候，如果我是个年轻的、经验较少的人，我肯定会选择她。同样，昨晚，当她的夫人，正如我确信的那样，受到普遍的钦佩，回家时——为什么，主啊，一个男人几乎可以说就像维纳斯从海洋中升起一样——一想到她被指控，就感到非常不愉快和不一致。她被谋杀了，而她是无辜的，我觉得很想结束这份工作。我应该失去什么？莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，我应该失去武器。葬礼离开后，我这里的囚犯向巴克特夫人提议，他们应该乘公共汽车走一小段路进入乡下，在一家非常体面的娱乐场所喝茶。现在，那个娱乐场附近有一块水。喝茶时，我的囚犯起身从放帽子的卧室里拿了她的袖珍手帕。她走了很长一段时间，回来时已经有点气喘吁吁了。他们一回到家，巴克特夫人就向我报告了这一情况，以及她的观察和怀疑。 我当着几个人的面，在月光下把那块水拖了出来，而那把袖珍手枪在它到达那里六小时前就被拿了上来。现在，亲爱的，把你的手臂再伸进我的手臂一点，稳住，我就不会伤害你了！’

In a trice Mr. Bucket snaps a handcuff on her wrist. ‘That’s one,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Now the other, darling. Two, and all told!’
刹那间，巴克特先生把她手腕上的手铐折断了。 “就是这样，”巴克特先生说。 “现在是另一个，亲爱的。两个，总而言之！

He rises; she rises too. ‘Where,’ she asks him, darkening her large eyes until their drooping lids almost conceal them—and yet they stare, ‘where is your false, your treacherous, and cursed wife?’
他站起来；她也站了起来。 “在哪里，”她问他，她的大眼睛变黑了，直到下垂的眼睑几乎遮住了它们——但它们却盯着，“你那个虚假的、你的、背叛的、被诅咒的妻子在哪里？”

‘She’s gone forrard to the Police Office,’ returns Mr. Bucket. ‘You’ll see her there, my dear.’
“她已经去了警察局，”巴克特先生回答道。 “你会在那里见到她的，亲爱的。”

‘I would like to kiss her!’ exclaims Mademoiselle Hortense, panting tigress-like.
“我想吻她！”霍滕斯小姐像母老虎一样气喘吁吁地喊道。

‘You’d bite her, I suspect,’ says Mr. Bucket.
“我怀疑你会咬她，”巴克特先生说。

‘I would!’ making her eyes very large. ‘I would love to tear her limb from limb.’
“我愿意！”她的眼睛睁得很大。 “我很想把她的肢体撕碎。”

‘Bless you, darling,’ says Mr. Bucket with the greatest composure, ‘I’m fully prepared to hear that. Your sex have such a surprising animosity against one another when you do differ. You don’t mind me half so much, do you?’
“祝福你，亲爱的，”巴克特先生极其镇静地说，“我已经做好了听到这个消息的充分准备。”当你们确实存在分歧时，你们的性别之间就会产生如此令人惊讶的敌意。你一点也不介意我，是吗？

‘No. Though you are a devil still.’
'不。尽管你仍然是一个魔鬼。

‘Angel and devil by turns, eh?’ cries Mr. Bucket. ‘But I am in my regular employment, you must consider. Let me put your shawl tidy. I’ve been lady’s maid to a good many before now. Anything wanting to the bonnet? There’s a cab at the door.’
“天使和魔鬼交替出现，嗯？”巴克特先生喊道。 “但我有固定工作，你必须考虑一下。让我把你的披肩整理一下。我以前做过很多女士的女仆。有想要帽子的吗？门口有一辆出租车。

Mademoiselle Hortense, casting an indignant eye at the glass, shakes herself perfectly neat in one shake and looks, to do her justice, uncommonly genteel.
霍顿斯小姐愤愤不平地看了一眼玻璃，一抖就把身子摇得干干净净，公平地说，她显得异常文雅。

‘Listen then, my angel,’ says she after several sarcastic nods. ‘You are very spiritual. But can you restore him back to life?’
“听着，我的天使，”她讽刺地点了几次头后说道。 ‘你很有灵性。但你能让他复活吗？

Mr. Bucket answers, ‘Not exactly.’
巴克特先生回答说：“不完全是。”

‘That is droll. Listen yet one time. You are very spiritual. Can you make a honourahle lady of her?’
‘那真是滑稽。再听一遍。你很有灵性。你能让她成为一位荣誉女士吗？

‘Don’t be so malicious,’ says Mr. Bucket.
“别这么恶毒，”巴克特先生说。

‘Or a haughty gentleman of HIM?’ cries mademoiselle, referring to Sir Leicester with ineffable disdain. ‘Eh! Oh, then regard him! The poor infant! Ha! Ha! Ha!’
“还是他的一位傲慢的绅士？”小姐喊道，指的是莱斯特爵士，带着难以形容的轻蔑。 ‘呃！哦，那就尊重他吧！可怜的婴儿！哈！哈！哈！'

‘Come, come, why this is worse PARLAYING than the other,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘Come along!’
“得了，得了，为什么这个过关比另一个更糟糕，”巴克特先生说。 '一起来！'

‘You cannot do these things? Then you can do as you please with me. It is but the death, it is all the same. Let us go, my angel. Adieu, you old man, grey. I pity you, and I despise you!’
‘你不能做这些事吗？那你就可以对我做你想做的事了。只不过是死亡，都是一样的。让我们走吧，我的天使。再见，你这个老家伙，灰色的。我可怜你，我鄙视你！

With these last words she snaps her teeth together as if her mouth closed with a spring. It is impossible to describe how Mr. Bucket gets her out, but he accomplishes that feat in a manner so peculiar to himself, enfolding and pervading her like a cloud, and hovering away with her as if he were a homely Jupiter and she the object of his affections.
说完这最后一句话，她咬紧牙关，仿佛嘴巴被弹簧合住了。无法描述巴克特先生是如何把她救出来的，但他以一种他自己特有的方式完成了这一壮举，像云一样包围和弥漫她，并与她一起盘旋，仿佛他是一颗朴素的木星，而她是物体他的感情。

Sir Leicester, left alone, remains in the same attitude, as though he were still listening and his attention were still occupied. At length he gazes round the empty room, and finding it deserted, rises unsteadily to his feet, pushes back his chair, and walks a few steps, supporting himself by the table. Then he stops, and with more of those inarticulate sounds, lifts up his eyes and seems to stare at something.
莱斯特爵士独自一人，仍然保持着同样的态度，仿佛他还在听，他的注意力仍然被占据。最后，他环顾空荡荡的房间，发现里面空无一人，便摇摇晃晃地站起来，把椅子推回原处，靠着桌子走了几步。然后他停了下来，伴随着更多难以言喻的声音，抬起眼睛，似乎在凝视着什么。

Heaven knows what he sees. The green, green woods of Chesney Wold, the noble house, the pictures of his forefathers, strangers defacing them, officers of police coarsely handling his most precious heirlooms, thousands of fingers pointing at him, thousands of faces sneering at him. But if such shadows flit before him to his bewilderment, there is one other shadow which he can name with something like distinctness even yet and to which alone he addresses his tearing of his white hair and his extended arms.
天知道他看到了什么。切斯尼沃尔德绿油油的树林，高贵的房子，他祖先的照片，陌生人毁坏他们，警察粗暴地处理他最珍贵的传家宝，成千上万的手指指着他，成千上万的面孔嘲笑他。但是，如果这些阴影在他面前掠过，让他感到困惑，那么还有另一个阴影，他甚至还可以清晰地命名它，并且只有这个阴影才是他撕扯他的白发和伸出的手臂的原因。

It is she in association with whom, saving that she has been for years a main fibre of the root of his dignity and pride, he has never had a selfish thought. It is she whom he has loved, admired, honoured, and set up for the world to respect. It is she who, at the core of all the constrained formalities and conventionalities of his life, has been a stock of living tenderness and love, susceptible as nothing else is of being struck with the agony he feels. He sees her, almost to the exclusion of himself, and cannot bear to look upon her cast down from the high place she has graced so well.
正是与她交往，多年来她一直是他尊严和骄傲的根基，他从未有过任何自私的想法。他爱她、钦佩她、尊敬她，并让她受到全世界的尊重。在他生活中所有拘谨的礼节和惯例的核心，正是她充满了鲜活的温柔和爱，最容易受到他所感受到的痛苦的影响。他看到了她，几乎把自己排除在外，无法忍受看着她从她如此优雅的高位上摔下来。

And even to the point of his sinking on the ground, oblivious of his suffering, he can yet pronounce her name with something like distinctness in the midst of those intrusive sounds, and in a tone of mourning and compassion rather than reproach.
即使他倒在地上，忘记了自己的痛苦，他仍然可以在那些侵入性的声音中清晰地念出她的名字，语气是哀悼和同情，而不是责备。

CHAPTER LV
第六章


Flight
航班

Inspector Bucket of the Detective has not yet struck his great blow, as just now chronicled, but is yet refreshing himself with sleep preparatory to his field-day, when through the night and along the freezing wintry roads a chaise and pair comes out of Lincolnshire, making its way towards London.
正如刚才所记录的那样，侦探探长巴克特还没有受到重大打击，但他正在通过睡眠恢复精神，为他的实地考察做好准备，这时，在整个夜晚，沿着寒冷的冬季道路，一辆躺椅和一对从林肯郡驶出。 ，正在前往伦敦。

Railroads shall soon traverse all this country, and with a rattle and a glare the engine and train shall shoot like a meteor over the wide night-landscape, turning the moon paler; but as yet such things are non-existent in these parts, though not wholly unexpected. Preparations are afoot, measurements are made, ground is staked out. Bridges are begun, and their not yet united piers desolately look at one another over roads and streams like brick and mortar couples with an obstacle to their union; fragments of embankments are thrown up and left as precipices with torrents of rusty carts and barrows tumbling over them; tripods of tall poles appear on hilltops, where there are rumours of tunnels; everything looks chaotic and abandoned in full hopelessness. Along the freezing roads, and through the night, the post-chaise makes its way without a railroad on its mind.
铁路很快就会横贯整个国家，伴随着嘎嘎声和眩光，火车头和火车将像流星一样划过广阔的夜景，使月亮变得更加苍白；但到目前为止，这些地方还不存在这样的事情，尽管并非完全出乎意料。准备工作正在进行中，进行测量，地面放样。桥梁开始修建，尚未统一的桥墩在道路和溪流上凄凉地看着对方，就像一对砖砌的夫妇，为他们的结合设置了障碍；堤坝的碎片被抛起，变成了悬崖，生锈的手推车和手推车在上面滚滚滚滚。山顶上出现了由高杆组成的三脚架，据传那里有隧道；一切看起来都很混乱，被完全绝望地抛弃了。邮车沿着冰冷的道路，彻夜前行，没有考虑到铁路。

Mrs. Rouncewell, so many years housekeeper at Chesney Wold, sits within the chaise; and by her side sits Mrs. Bagnet with her grey cloak and umbrella. The old girl would prefer the bar in front, as being exposed to the weather and a primitive sort of perch more in accordance with her usual course of travelling, but Mrs. Rouncewell is too thoughtful of her comfort to admit of her proposing it. The old lady cannot make enough of the old girl. She sits, in her stately manner, holding her hand, and regardless of its roughness, puts it often to her lips. ‘You are a mother, my dear soul,’ says she many times, ‘and you found out my George’s mother!’
朗斯韦尔夫人在切斯尼沃尔德担任多年管家，坐在躺椅上。她旁边坐着巴格内特太太，她穿着灰色斗篷，打着雨伞。老女孩更喜欢前面的酒吧，因为它可以暴露在天气里，而且是一种更符合她平常旅行路线的原始栖息处，但朗斯韦尔夫人太考虑到她的舒适度，不承认她提出了这个建议。老太太对这个老姑娘实在是看不够。她端庄地坐着，握着她的手，不管它的手有多粗糙，常常把它放在嘴唇上。 “我亲爱的灵魂，你是一位母亲，”她多次这样说道，“你找到了我乔治的母亲！”

‘Why, George,’ returns Mrs. Bagnet, ‘was always free with me, ma’am, and when he said at our house to my Woolwich that of all the things my Woolwich could have to think of when he grew to be a man, the comfortablest would be that he had never brought a sorrowful line into his mother’s face or turned a hair of her head grey, then I felt sure, from his way, that something fresh had brought his own mother into his mind. I had often known him say to me, in past times, that he had behaved bad to her.’
“为什么，乔治，”巴格内特夫人回答说，“女士，他总是对我很自由，当他在我们家里对我的伍尔维奇说，当我的伍尔维奇成长为一个人时，他可能必须考虑的所有事情男人，最舒服的就是他从来没有在他母亲的脸上留下悲伤的皱纹，也没有让她的一根头发变白，然后我确信，从他的方式来看，某种新鲜的东西把他自己的母亲带进了他的脑海里。我知道他过去经常对我说他对她不好。

‘Never, my dear!’ returns Mrs. Rouncewell, bursting into tears. ‘My blessing on him, never! He was always fond of me, and loving to me, was my George! But he had a bold spirit, and he ran a little wild and went for a soldier. And I know he waited at first, in letting us know about himself, till he should rise to be an officer; and when he didn’t rise, I know he considered himself beneath us, and wouldn’t be a disgrace to us. For he had a lion heart, had my George, always from a baby!’
“永远不会，亲爱的！”朗斯韦尔夫人泪流满面地回答道。 “我祝福他，永远不会！”他一直很喜欢我，也很爱我，他就是我的乔治！但他有一个大胆的精神，他跑得有点狂野，去当了一名士兵。我知道他一开始是在等待，直到他晋升为一名军官，才让我们了解他自己。当他没有站起来时，我知道他认为自己比我们低，不会让我们蒙羞。因为他有一颗狮子的心，有我的乔治，总是从婴儿开始！

The old lady’s hands stray about her as of yore, while she recalls, all in a tremble, what a likely lad, what a fine lad, what a gay good-humoured clever lad he was; how they all took to him down at Chesney Wold; how Sir Leicester took to him when he was a young gentleman; how the dogs took to him; how even the people who had been angry with him forgave him the moment he was gone, poor boy. And now to see him after all, and in a prison too! And the broad stomacher heaves, and the quaint upright old-fashioned figure bends under its load of affectionate distress.
老太太的双手像以前一样在她身上徘徊，她浑身颤抖地回忆起，他是一个多么有前途的小伙子，多么优秀的小伙子，多么快乐、幽默、聪明的小伙子；在切斯尼沃尔德，人们是如何看待他的？当莱斯特爵士还是一位年轻的绅士时，他是如何喜欢他的？狗们对他的态度如何？他走后，就连那些对他生气的人也原谅了他，可怜的孩子。现在终于要见到他了，而且还是在监狱里！宽阔的肚兜起伏着，古色古香的直立的老式人物在深情痛苦的重压下弯曲了。

Mrs. Bagnet, with the instinctive skill of a good warm heart, leaves the old housekeeper to her emotions for a little while—not without passing the back of her hand across her own motherly eyes— and presently chirps up in her cheery manner, ‘So I says to George when I goes to call him in to tea (he pretended to be smoking his pipe outside), ‘What ails you this afternoon, George, for gracious sake? I have seen all sorts, and I have seen you pretty often in season and out of season, abroad and at home, and I never see you so melancholy penitent.’ ‘Why, Mrs. Bagnet,’ says George, ‘it’s because I AM melancholy and penitent both, this afternoon, that you see me so.’ ‘What have you done, old fellow?’ I says. ‘Why, Mrs. Bagnet,’ says George, shaking his head, ‘what I have done has been done this many a long year, and is best not tried to be undone now. If I ever get to heaven it won’t be for being a good son to a widowed mother; I say no more.’ Now, ma’am, when George says to me that it’s best not tried to be undone now, I have my thoughts as I have often had before, and I draw it out of George how he comes to have such things on him that afternoon. Then George tells me that he has seen by chance, at the lawyer’s office, a fine old lady that has brought his mother plain before him, and he runs on about that old lady till he quite forgets himself and paints her picture to me as she used to be, years upon years back. So I says to George when he has done, who is this old lady he has seen? And George tells me it’s Mrs. Rouncewell, housekeeper for more than half a century to the Dedlock family down at Chesney Wold in Lincolnshire. George has frequently told me before that he’s a Lincolnshire man, and I says to my old Lignum that night, ‘Lignum, that’s his mother for five and for-ty pound!’’
巴格内特太太本能地拥有一颗温暖的心，让老管家暂时沉浸在自己的情绪中——她用手背抚摸着自己慈母般的眼睛——然后立即以她愉快的方式叽叽喳喳地说道：所以，当我去叫乔治去喝茶时（他假装在外面抽烟斗），我对他说：“老天爷，乔治，你今天下午怎么了？”我见过各种各样的人，无论是在季节还是淡季，无论是在国外还是在国内，我都经常见到你，但我从未见过你如此忧郁地忏悔。”“为什么，巴格内特夫人，”乔治说，“这是因为我“你做了什么，老家伙？”我说。 “哎呀，巴格内特太太，”乔治摇着头说道，“我已经做了这么多年了，现在最好不要试图撤销。”如果我能进天堂，那也不是为了成为寡妇的好儿子；而是为了成为一个寡妇的好儿子。我不再再说了。”现在，女士，当乔治对我说现在最好不要试图挽回时，我的想法就像我以前经常有的那样，我从乔治身上汲取了他是如何做到这一点的。那天下午他身上就发生了这样的事情。然后乔治告诉我，他在律师办公室偶然看到了一位漂亮的老太太，她把他的母亲带到了他的面前，他继续围绕着那位老太太，直到他完全忘记了自己，并把她的照片画给我看。曾经是，很多年前。所以当乔治完成后我对他说，他看到的这位老太太是谁？乔治告诉我，这是朗斯韦尔夫人，她在林肯郡切斯尼沃尔德的戴德洛克家族做了半个多世纪的管家。 乔治以前经常告诉我，他是林肯郡人，那天晚上我对我的老利格纳姆说，‘利格纳姆，那是他五英镑和四十英镑的母亲！’’

All this Mrs. Bagnet now relates for the twentieth time at least within the last four hours. Trilling it out like a kind of bird, with a pretty high note, that it may be audible to the old lady above the hum of the wheels.
巴格内特夫人至少在过去四个小时内已经第二十次讲述这一切了。像鸟儿一样发出颤音，声音相当高，这样老太太就可以在车轮的嗡嗡声中听到它的声音。

‘Bless you, and thank you,’ says Mrs. Rouncewell. ‘Bless you, and thank you, my worthy soul!’
“祝福你，谢谢你，”朗斯韦尔夫人说。 “祝福你，感谢你，我尊贵的灵魂！”

‘Dear heart!’ cries Mrs. Bagnet in the most natural manner. ‘No thanks to me, I am sure. Thanks to yourself, ma’am, for being so ready to pay ‘em! And mind once more, ma’am, what you had best do on finding George to be your own son is to make him—for your sake —have every sort of help to put himself in the right and clear himself of a charge of which he is as innocent as you or me. It won’t do to have truth and justice on his side; he must have law and lawyers,’ exclaims the old girl, apparently persuaded that the latter form a separate establishment and have dissolved partnership with truth and justice for ever and a day.
“亲爱的心！”巴格内特夫人以最自然的方式喊道。 “不用谢我，我确信。谢谢你自己，女士，你已经准备好付钱给他们了！再次请注意，女士，当你发现乔治是你自己的儿子时，你最好做的就是让他——为了你的缘故——获得各种帮助，使自己恢复正常，并摆脱对他的指控。他和你我一样无辜。真理和正义站在他一边是行不通的。 “他必须有法律和律师。”老女孩大声说道，显然她相信后者成立了一个独立的机构，并永远解除了与真理和正义的伙伴关系。

‘He shall have,’ says Mrs. Rouncewell, ‘all the help that can be got for him in the world, my dear. I will spend all I have, and thankfully, to procure it. Sir Leicester will do his best, the whole family will do their best. I—I know something, my dear; and will make my own appeal, as his mother parted from him all these years, and finding him in a jail at last.’
“他将得到，”朗斯韦尔夫人说，“世界上能得到的所有帮助，亲爱的。”谢天谢地，我会花掉我所有的一切来获得它。莱斯特爵士会尽力而为，全家人都会尽力而为。我——我知道一些事情，亲爱的；我会提出自己的上诉，因为这些年来他的母亲与他分开，并最终发现他进了监狱。

The extreme disquietude of the old housekeeper’s manner in saying this, her broken words, and her wringing of her hands make a powerful impression on Mrs. Bagnet and would astonish her but that she refers them all to her sorrow for her son’s condition. And yet Mrs. Bagnet wonders too why Mrs. Rouncewell should murmur so distractedly, ‘My Lady, my Lady, my Lady!’ over and over again.
老管家说这句话时的极度不安的态度、她断断续续的话语以及她绞着的双手给巴格尼特太太留下了深刻的印象，也让她感到惊讶，但她把这一切都归咎于她对儿子病情的悲伤。然而巴格尼特夫人也想知道为什么朗斯韦尔夫人会如此心不在焉地一遍又一遍地低声说：“我的女士，我的女士，我的女士！”

The frosty night wears away, and the dawn breaks, and the postchaise comes rolling on through the early mist like the ghost of a chaise departed. It has plenty of spectral company in ghosts of trees and hedges, slowly vanishing and giving place to the realities of day. London reached, the travellers alight, the old housekeeper in great tribulation and confusion, Mrs. Bagnet quite fresh and collected—as she would be if her next point, with no new equipage and outfit, were the Cape of Good Hope, the Island of Ascension, Hong Kong, or any other military station.
寒冷的夜晚过去了，黎明破晓了，马车在晨雾中滚滚而来，就像马车的鬼魂离开了一样。在树木和树篱的幽灵中，有很多幽灵陪伴，慢慢消失，取而代之的是白天的现实。到达伦敦，旅客下了车，老管家陷入了极大的磨难和困惑，巴格内特夫人则神清气爽，镇定自若——如果她的下一个地点没有新的装备和装备，是好望角，好望角，她就会如此。阿森松岛、香港或任何其他军事基地。

But when they set out for the prison where the trooper is confined, the old lady has managed to draw about her, with her lavendercoloured dress, much of the staid calmness which is its usual accompaniment. A wonderfully grave, precise, and handsome piece of old china she looks, though her heart beats fast and her stomacher is ruffled more than even the remembrance of this wayward son has ruffled it these many years.
但当他们出发前往关押士兵的监狱时，老太太穿着淡紫色的裙子，成功地展现了她一贯的沉着冷静。她看起来像一件极其庄重、精确、漂亮的旧瓷器，尽管她的心跳得很快，她的肚皮比多年来想起这个任性的儿子所引起的更剧烈。

Approaching the cell, they find the door opening and a warder in the act of coming out. The old girl promptly makes a sign of entreaty to him to say nothing; assenting with a nod, he suffers them to enter as he shuts the door.
走近牢房时，他们发现门打开了，一名看守正要出来。老姑娘立即做出恳求他不要再说什么的手势。他点头同意，关上门，让他们进来。

So George, who is writing at his table, supposing himself to be alone, does not raise his eyes, but remains absorbed. The old housekeeper looks at him, and those wandering hands of hers are quite enough for Mrs. Bagnet’s confirmation, even if she could see the mother and the son together, knowing what she knows, and doubt their relationship.
因此，正在桌旁写作的乔治，以为自己是独自一人，没有抬起眼睛，而是全神贯注。老管家看着他，那双游走的手已经足够让巴格尼特太太确认了，即使她能看到母子俩在一起，知道她所知道的，怀疑他们的关系。

Not a rustle of the housekeeper’s dress, not a gesture, not a word betrays her. She stands looking at him as he writes on, all unconscious, and only her fluttering hands give utterance to her emotions. But they are very eloquent, very, very eloquent. Mrs. Bagnet understands them. They speak of gratitude, of joy, of grief, of hope; of inextinguishable affection, cherished with no return since this stalwart man was a stripling; of a better son loved less, and this son loved so fondly and so proudly; and they speak in such touching language that Mrs. Bagnet’s eyes brim up with tears and they run glistening down her sun-brown face.
管家衣服的窸窣声、一个手势、一个字都没有泄露她的秘密。当他写下的时候，她站在那里看着他，完全无意识，只有她颤动的双手诉说着她的情感。但他们非常能言善辩，非常非常能言善辩。巴格内特夫人理解他们。他们谈论感恩、喜悦、悲伤、希望；无法熄灭的感情，因为这个坚强的男人是个小伙子而被珍惜而没有回报；一个更好的儿子爱得更少，而这个儿子爱得如此深情和自豪；他们的语言非常感人，巴格内特夫人的眼里噙满了泪水，泪水顺着她太阳棕色的脸庞闪闪发光。

‘George Rouncewell! Oh, my dear child, turn and look at me!’
“乔治·朗斯韦尔！哦，我亲爱的孩子，转过身来看着我！

The trooper starts up, clasps his mother round the neck, and falls down on his knees before her. Whether in a late repentance, whether in the first association that comes back upon him, he puts his hands together as a child does when it says its prayers, and raising them towards her breast, bows down his head, and cries.
士兵跳了起来，搂住母亲的脖子，跪在她面前。无论是在迟来的悔改中，还是在第一次联想到他身上时，他都会像孩子祈祷时那样双手合十，举向她的胸前，低下头，哭泣。

‘My George, my dearest son! Always my favourite, and my favourite still, where have you been these cruel years and years? Grown such a man too, grown such a fine strong man. Grown so like what I knew he must be, if it pleased God he was alive!’
“我的乔治，我最亲爱的儿子！永远是我的最爱，而且仍然是我的最爱，这些残酷的岁月你去哪儿了？也成长为这样的男人，成长为这样优秀的强者。长得像我所知道的那样，如果上帝高兴他还活着的话！

She can ask, and he can answer, nothing connected for a time. All that time the old girl, turned away, leans one arm against the whitened wall, leans her honest forehead upon it, wipes her eyes with her serviceable grey cloak, and quite enjoys herself like the best of old girls as she is.
她可以问，他也可以回答，但暂时没有任何联系。一直以来，老姑娘都转过身去，一只手臂靠在洁白的墙上，诚实的额头靠在上面，用她那件耐用的灰色斗篷擦着眼睛，像最优秀的老姑娘一样享受着自己的生活。

‘Mother,’ says the trooper when they are more composed, ‘forgive me first of all, for I know my need of it.’
“妈妈，”当他们平静下来后，士兵说道，“首先请原谅我，因为我知道我需要它。”

Forgive him! She does it with all her heart and soul. She always has done it. She tells him how she has had it written in her will, these many years, that he was her beloved son George. She has never believed any ill of him, never. If she had died without this happiness—and she is an old woman now and can’t look to live very long—she would have blessed him with her last breath, if she had had her senses, as her beloved son George.
原谅他！她全心全意地这样做。她一直都是这么做的。她告诉他，多年来她如何在遗嘱中写下他是她心爱的儿子乔治。她从来不相信他有任何恶意，从来不相信。如果她在没有这种幸福的情况下死去——她现在已经是个老妇人了，活不了多久了——如果她还有理智的话，她会用最后一口气祝福他，就像她心爱的儿子乔治一样。

‘Mother, I have been an undutiful trouble to you, and I have my reward; but of late years I have had a kind of glimmering of a purpose in me too. When I left home I didn’t care much, mother—I am afraid not a great deal—for leaving; and went away and ‘listed, harum-scarum, making believe to think that I cared for nobody, no not I, and that nobody cared for me.’
‘母亲，我给你带来了不负责任的麻烦，但我得到了我的报应；但近年来，我内心也闪现出一丝目标。当我离开家的时候，我并不太在意，妈妈——恐怕不是太在意——离开。然后就走了，“列出来，鲁莽的，假装我关心任何人，不，不是我，也没有人关心我。”

The trooper has dried his eyes and put away his handkerchief, but there is an extraordinary contrast between his habitual manner of expressing himself and carrying himself and the softened tone in which he speaks, interrupted occasionally by a half-stifled sob.
警察擦干了眼睛，收起了手帕，但他惯常的表达方式和举止与他说话时的柔和语气（偶尔被半窒息的抽泣打断）之间存在着惊人的反差。

‘So I wrote a line home, mother, as you too well know, to say I had ‘listed under another name, and I went abroad. Abroad, at one time I thought I would write home next year, when I might be better off; and when that year was out, I thought I would write home next year, when I might be better off; and when that year was out again, perhaps I didn’t think much about it. So on, from year to year, through a service of ten years, till I began to get older, and to ask myself why should I ever write.’
“所以我写了一封信回家，母亲，正如你所知道的那样，说我‘以另一个名字列出，然后我去了国外。在国外，我一度以为明年我会写信回家，那时我的生活可能会更好；那一年结束后，我想明年我会写信回家，那时我的生活可能会更好。当那一年再次结束时，也许我并没有想太多。就这样，年复一年，服务了十年，直到我开始变老，并问自己为什么要写作。

‘I don’t find any fault, child—but not to ease my mind, George? Not a word to your loving mother, who was growing older too?’
“我没有发现任何错误，孩子——但不是为了让我安心，乔治？没有对你慈爱的母亲说一句话吗，她也在变老？

This almost overturns the trooper afresh, but he sets himself up with a great, rough, sounding clearance of his throat.
这几乎让士兵再次翻倒，但他清了清嗓子，艰难地站了起来。

‘Heaven forgive me, mother, but I thought there would be small consolation then in hearing anything about me. There were you, respected and esteemed. There was my brother, as I read in chance North Country papers now and then, rising to be prosperous and famous. There was I a dragoon, roving, unsettled, not self-made like him, but self-unmade—all my earlier advantages thrown away, all my little learning unlearnt, nothing picked up but what unfitted me for most things that I could think of. What business had I to make myself known? After letting all that time go by me, what good could come of it? The worst was past with you, mother. I knew by that time (being a man) how you had mourned for me, and wept for me, and prayed for me; and the pain was over, or was softened down, and I was better in your mind as it was.’
“上帝原谅我，母亲，但我想听到任何关于我的事情都会有一点安慰。那里有你，受人尊敬、受人尊敬。我时不时地在北方国家的报纸上读到，我的兄弟正在变得富裕和出名。我是一个龙骑兵，流浪，不安，不像他那样白手起家，而是白手起家——我所有早先的优势都被抛弃了，我所有的小知识都被遗忘了，除了那些不适合我做我能想到的大多数事情之外，我什么也没学到。 。我有什么事情要让自己出名呢？当所有的时间都从我身边溜走之后，还能有什么好处呢？妈妈，最糟糕的时期已经过去了。那时我知道（作为一个男人）你是如何为我哀悼，为我哭泣，为我祈祷；疼痛就结束了，或者说已经减轻了，我在你心里的状态就更好了。”

The old lady sorrowfully shakes her head, and taking one of his powerful hands, lays it lovingly upon her shoulder.
老太太悲伤地摇摇头，握住他有力的一只手，慈爱地放在她的肩上。

‘No, I don’t say that it was so, mother, but that I made it out to be so. I said just now, what good could come of it? Well, my dear mother, some good might have come of it to myself—and there was the meanness of it. You would have sought me out; you would have purchased my discharge; you would have taken me down to Chesney Wold; you would have brought me and my brother and my brother’s family together; you would all have considered anxiously how to do something for me and set me up as a respectable civilian. But how could any of you feel sure of me when I couldn’t so much as feel sure of myself? How could you help regarding as an incumbrance and a discredit to you an idle dragooning chap who was an incumbrance and a discredit to himself, excepting under discipline? How could I look my brother’s children in the face and pretend to set them an example—I, the vagabond boy who had run away from home and been the grief and unhappiness of my mother’s life? ‘No, George.’ Such were my words, mother, when I passed this in review before me: ‘You have made your bed. Now, lie upon it.’’
“不，我不是说事情是这样的，妈妈，而是我让事情变成这样的。我刚才就说了，这样能有什么好处呢？好吧，我亲爱的母亲，这可能会给我带来一些好处——但也有一些卑鄙的地方。你一定会来找我的；你会购买我的出院费用；你会带我去切斯尼沃尔德；你会把我和我的兄弟以及我兄弟的家人带到一起；你们都会焦急地考虑如何为我做点什么，让我成为一个受人尊敬的平民。但是，当我连自己都没有信心的时候，你们怎么能对我有信心呢？你怎能不把一个无所事事的龙骑兵视为你的累赘和名誉，除非受到纪律约束，他对自己来说是一种累赘和名誉？我怎么能当着我哥哥的孩子们的面假装给他们树立榜样——我这个离家出走的流浪男孩，是我母亲一生的悲伤和不幸？ “不，乔治。”母亲，当我在我面前审阅这篇文章时，我是这样说的：“你已经整理好床了。”现在，躺在上面。”

Mrs. Rouncewell, drawing up her stately form, shakes her head at the old girl with a swelling pride upon her, as much as to say, ‘I told you so!’ The old girl relieves her feelings and testifies her interest in the conversation by giving the trooper a great poke between the shoulders with her umbrella; this action she afterwards repeats, at intervals, in a species of affectionate lunacy, never failing, after the administration of each of these remonstrances, to resort to the whitened wall and the grey cloak again.
朗斯韦尔夫人摆出庄严的姿态，对老女孩摇摇头，脸上洋溢着一种自豪感，几乎是在说：“我早就告诉过你了！”老女孩缓解了她的情绪，并证明了她对这次谈话的兴趣。用雨伞狠狠地戳了一下士兵的肩膀；此后，她时不时地重复这个动作，带着一种深情的疯狂，在每次抗议之后，她总是会再次求助于白色的墙壁和灰色的斗篷。

‘This was the way I brought myself to think, mother, that my best amends was to lie upon that bed I had made, and die upon it. And I should have done it (though I have been to see you more than once down at Chesney Wold, when you little thought of me) but for my old comrade’s wife here, who I find has been too many for me. But I thank her for it. I thank you for it, Mrs. Bagnet, with all my heart and might.’
“母亲，我就是这么想的，我最好的补偿就是躺在我铺好的床上，然后死在上面。我本来应该这样做的（尽管我不止一次去切斯尼沃尔德见过你，当时你很少想到我），但为了我这里的老战友的妻子，我发现她对我来说太多了。但我为此感谢她。我全心全意地感谢你，巴格内特夫人。

To which Mrs. Bagnet responds with two pokes.
巴格内特夫人用戳了两下作为回应。

And now the old lady impresses upon her son George, her own dear recovered boy, her joy and pride, the light of her eyes, the happy close of her life, and every fond name she can think of, that he must be governed by the best advice obtainable by money and influence, that he must yield up his case to the greatest lawyers that can be got, that he must act in this serious plight as he shall be advised to act and must not be self-willed, however right, but must promise to think only of his poor old mother’s anxiety and suffering until he is released, or he will break her heart.
现在，老太太给她的儿子乔治留下了深刻的印象，她亲爱的康复男孩，她的喜悦和自豪，她眼睛的光芒，她生命的幸福结束，以及她能想到的每一个可爱的名字，他必须由通过金钱和影响力可以获得的最佳建议，他必须将案件交给能找到的最优秀的律师，他必须在这种严重的困境中采取行动，就像他应该采取的行动一样，并且决不能任性，无论多么正确，但必须保证在他被释放之前只考虑他可怜的老母亲的焦虑和痛苦，否则他会伤了她的心。

‘Mother, ‘tis little enough to consent to,’ returns the trooper, stopping her with a kiss; ‘tell me what I shall do, and I’ll make a late beginning and do it. Mrs. Bagnet, you’ll take care of my mother, I know?’
“妈妈，这还不足以同意，”士兵回答道，并用一个吻阻止了她。 ‘告诉我该做什么，我会晚点开始做。巴格内特太太，你会照顾我的母亲，我知道吗？

A very hard poke from the old girl’s umbrella.
老女孩的雨伞狠狠地戳了一下。

‘If you’ll bring her acquainted with Mr. Jarndyce and Miss Summerson, she will find them of her way of thinking, and they will give her the best advice and assistance.’
“如果你让她认识贾迪斯先生和萨默森小姐，她就会了解他们的思维方式，他们会给她最好的建议和帮助。”

‘And, George,’ says the old lady, ‘we must send with all haste for your brother. He is a sensible sound man as they tell me—out in the world beyond Chesney Wold, my dear, though I don’t know much of it myself—and will be of great service.’
“还有，乔治，”老太太说道，“我们必须尽快派人去找你的兄弟。”正如他们告诉我的那样，他是一个明智而健全的人——在切斯尼沃尔德之外的世界，亲爱的，尽管我自己对此了解不多——并且会为我们提供很大的帮助。

‘Mother,’ returns the trooper, ‘is it too soon to ask a favour?’
“妈妈，”士兵回答道，“现在请求帮忙是不是太早了？”

‘Surely not, my dear.’
“当然不是，亲爱的。”

‘Then grant me this one great favour. Don’t let my brother know.’
‘那就请赐予我这个大恩吧。别让我哥哥知道。”

‘Not know what, my dear?’
“不知道什么，亲爱的？”

‘Not know of me. In fact, mother, I can’t bear it; I can’t make up my mmd to it. He has proved himself so different from me and has done so much to raise himself while I’ve been soldiering that I haven’t brass enough in my composition to see him in this place and under this charge. How could a man like him be expected to have any pleasure in such a discovery? It’s impossible. No, keep my secret from him, mother; do me a greater kindness than I deserve and keep my secret from my brother, of all men.’
‘不认识我。其实，妈妈，我受不了；我无法弥补我的mmd。他已经证明了自己与我如此不同，并且在我当兵期间为提升自己做了很多事情，以至于我在我的作文中还没有足够的勇气来看到他在这个地方，接受这样的指控。像他这样的人怎么会对这样的发现感到高兴呢？不可能。不，妈妈，请保守我的秘密；请对我给予比我应得的更大的仁慈，并对我的兄弟保密我的秘密。”

‘But not always, dear George?’
“但并非总是如此，亲爱的乔治？”

‘Why, mother, perhaps not for good and all—though I may come to ask that too—but keep it now, I do entreat you. If it’s ever broke to him that his rip of a brother has turned up, I could wish,’ says the trooper, shaking his head very doubtfully, ‘to break it myself and be governed as to advancing or retreating by the way in which he seems to take it.’
“哎呀，妈妈，也许这不是永远的——虽然我也可能会来问这个——但现在就保留它，我恳求你。如果他曾经因为自己的兄弟被撕裂而感到沮丧，我希望，”士兵非常怀疑地摇着头说，“我自己打破它，并根据他的方式来控制前进或后退。看来接受了。

As he evidently has a rooted feeling on this point, and as the depth of it is recognized in Mrs. Bagnet’s face, his mother yields her implicit assent to what he asks. For this he thanks her kindly.
由于他显然对这一点有一种根深蒂固的感觉，而且巴格内特夫人的脸上也看出了这种感觉的深度，因此他的母亲默许了他的要求。为此，他善意地感谢她。

‘In all other respects, my dear mother, I’ll be as tractable and obedient as you can wish; on this one alone, I stand out. So now I am ready even for the lawyers. I have been drawing up,’ he glances at his writing on the table, ‘an exact account of what I knew of the deceased and how I came to be involved in this unfortunate affair. It’s entered, plain and regular, like an orderly-book; not a word in it but what’s wanted for the facts. I did intend to read it, straight on end, whensoever I was called upon to say anything in my defence. I hope I may be let to do it still; but I have no longer a will of my own in this case, and whatever is said or done, I give my promise not to have any.’
“亲爱的母亲，在所有其他方面，我都会如您所希望的那样听话、听话；仅就这一点而言，我就很突出。所以现在我什至已经准备好接受律师了。我一直在起草，”他看了一眼桌子上的字迹，“详细描述了我对死者的了解以及我是如何卷入这起不幸的事件的。它被输入，简单而规则，就像一本有序的书；里面没有一个字，而是事实所需要的。每当有人要求我为自己辩护时，我确实打算直接读完它。我希望我还能继续做这件事；但在这种情况下，我不再有自己的意愿，无论说什么或做什么，我保证不会有任何意愿。

Matters being brought to this so far satisfactory pass, and time being on the wane, Mrs. Bagnet proposes a departure. Again and again the old lady hangs upon her son’s neck, and again and again the trooper holds her to his broad chest.
事情到此为止还算令人满意，随着时间的流逝，巴格内特夫人提议离开。老太太一次又一次地搂住儿子的脖子，士兵一次又一次地把她抱在他宽阔的胸前。

‘Where are you going to take my mother, Mrs. Bagnet?’
“巴格内特太太，你要带我母亲去哪里？”

‘I am going to the town house, my dear, the family house. I have some business there that must be looked to directly,’ Mrs. Rouncewell answers.
“我要去联排别墅，亲爱的，家里的房子。 “我在那里有一些事情必须直接处理。”朗斯韦尔夫人回答道。

‘Will you see my mother safe there in a coach, Mrs. Bagnet? But of course I know you will. Why should I ask it!’
“巴格内特夫人，你能在马车里看到我母亲安全吗？”但我当然知道你会的。我为什么要问这个！

Why indeed, Mrs. Bagnet expresses with the umbrella.
确实如此，巴格内特夫人用雨伞表示。

‘Take her, my old friend, and take my gratitude along with you. Kisses to Quebec and Malta, love to my godson, a hearty shake of the hand to Lignum, and this for yourself, and I wish it was ten thousand pound in gold, my dear!’ So saying, the trooper puts his lips to the old girl’s tanned forehead, and the door shuts upon him in his cell.
“带上她，我的老朋友，也带上我的感激之情。”向魁北克和马耳他亲吻，向我的教子表达爱意，向利格南热情地握手，还有这个给你自己，我希望这是一万英镑的黄金，亲爱的！”说着，士兵将嘴唇贴在了老女孩晒黑的额头，牢房的门在他面前关上了。

No entreaties on the part of the good old housekeeper will induce Mrs. Bagnet to retain the coach for her own conveyance home. Jumping out cheerfully at the door of the Dedlock mansion and handing Mrs. Rouncewell up the steps, the old girl shakes hands and trudges off, arriving soon afterwards in the bosom of the Bagnet family and falling to washing the greens as if nothing had happened.
无论这位好心的老管家如何恳求，巴格内特夫人都不会为她自己的运输之家保留这辆马车。老女孩兴高采烈地跳出戴德洛克宅邸的门口，把朗斯韦尔夫人递上台阶，握了握手，艰难地走开了，不久就来到了巴格尼特一家的怀里，开始清洗蔬菜，好像什么也没发生过一样。

My Lady is in that room in which she held her last conference with the murdered man, and is sitting where she sat that night, and is looking at the spot where he stood upon the hearth studying her so leisurely, when a tap comes at the door. Who is it? Mrs. Rouncewell. What has brought Mrs. Rouncewell to town so unexpectedly?
我的夫人就在那个房间里，她与被谋杀的男人举行了最后一次会议，她坐在那天晚上坐的地方，看着他站在壁炉上的地方，如此悠闲地研究她，这时水龙头响起了。门。是谁？朗斯韦尔夫人。是什么让朗斯韦尔夫人如此出人意料地来到城里？

‘Trouble, my Lady. Sad trouble. Oh, my Lady, may I beg a word with you?’
‘麻烦了，我的女士。悲伤的麻烦。噢，我的女士，我可以跟你说句话吗？

What new occurrence is it that makes this tranquil old woman tremble so? Far happier than her Lady, as her Lady has often thought, why does she falter in this manner and look at her with such strange mistrust?
究竟发生了什么新的事情，让这个平静的老太婆如此颤抖？比她的夫人幸福得多，正如她的夫人经常想的那样，为什么她会如此犹豫，并以如此奇怪的不信任的目光看着她？

‘What is the matter? Sit down and take your breath.’
'什么事？坐下来，屏住呼吸。”

‘Oh, my Lady, my Lady. I have found my son—my youngest, who went away for a soldier so long ago. And he is in prison.’
‘噢，我的女士，我的女士。我找到了我的儿子——我最小的儿子，他很久以前就去当兵了。他现在在监狱里。

‘For debt?’
“为了债务？”

‘Oh, no, my Lady; I would have paid any debt, and joyful.’
“哦，不，夫人；我会偿还任何债务，并且很高兴。

‘For what is he in prison then?’
“那他为什么进监狱呢？”

‘Charged with a murder, my Lady, of which he is as innocent as—as I am. Accused of the murder of Mr. Tulkinghorn.’
“被指控犯有谋杀罪，夫人，他和我一样是无辜的。”被指控谋杀图尔金霍恩先生。

What does she mean by this look and this imploring gesture? Why does she come so close? What is the letter that she holds?
她这个表情和这个恳求的姿势是什么意思？她为什么离得这么近？她手里拿着的信是什么？

‘Lady Dedlock, my dear Lady, my good Lady, my kind Lady! You must have a heart to feel for me, you must have a heart to forgive me. I was in this family before you were born. I am devoted to it. But think of my dear son wrongfully accused.’
“戴德洛克夫人，我亲爱的夫人，我善良的夫人，我善良的夫人！你必须有一颗同情我的心，你必须有一颗原谅我的心。在你出生之前我就在这个家庭了。我全身心投入。但想想我亲爱的儿子被错误地指控了。”

‘I do not accuse him.’
“我没有指控他。”

‘No, my Lady, no. But others do, and he is in prison and in danger. Oh, Lady Dedlock, if you can say but a word to help to clear him, say it!’
“不，夫人，不。”但其他人却这么做了，而他则身陷囹圄，处于危险之中。哦，戴德洛克女士，如果你能说一句话来帮助他洗清罪名，那就说吧！

What delusion can this be? What power does she suppose is in the person she petitions to avert this unjust suspicion, if it be unjust? Her Lady’s handsome eyes regard her with astonishment, almost with fear.
这能是什么错觉？如果她所请求的人有什么权力来避免这种不公正的怀疑，如果这是不公正的的话？夫人那双英俊的眼睛惊讶地看着她，几乎带着恐惧。

‘My Lady, I came away last night from Chesney Wold to find my son in my old age, and the step upon the Ghost’s Walk was so constant and so solemn that I never heard the like in all these years. Night after night, as it has fallen dark, the sound has echoed through your rooms, but last night it was awfullest. And as it fell dark last night, my Lady, I got this letter.’
“夫人，昨晚我从切斯尼沃尔德出发去寻找我年老的儿子，幽灵步道上的脚步声是如此持续和庄严，以至于这些年来我从未听到过类似的声音。一夜又一夜，天黑了，声音就在你的房间里回响，但昨晚是最可怕的。昨晚天黑时，夫人，我收到了这封信。

‘What letter is it?’
“这是什么字母？”

‘Hush! Hush!’ The housekeeper looks round and answers in a frightened whisper, ‘My Lady, I have not breathed a word of it, I don’t believe what’s written in it, I know it can’t be true, I am sure and certain that it is not true. But my son is in danger, and you must have a heart to pity me. If you know of anything that is not known to others, if you have any suspicion, if you have any clue at all, and any reason for keeping it in your own breast, oh, my dear Lady, think of me, and conquer that reason, and let it be known! This is the most I consider possible. I know you are not a hard lady, but you go your own way always without help, and you are not familiar with your friends; and all who admire you—and all do —as a beautiful and elegant lady, know you to be one far away from themselves who can’t be approached close. My Lady, you may have some proud or angry reasons for disdaining to utter something that you know; if so, pray, oh, pray, think of a faithful servant whose whole life has been passed in this family which she dearly loves, and relent, and help to clear my son! My Lady, my good Lady,’ the old housekeeper pleads with genuine simplicity, ‘I am so humble in my place and you are by nature so high and distant that you may not think what I feel for my child, but I feel so much that I have come here to make so bold as to beg and pray you not to be scornful of us if you can do us any right or justice at this fearful time!’
‘嘘！嘘！”管家环顾四周，惊恐地低声回答，“夫人，我没有说过这件事，我不相信上面写的是什么，我知道这不可能是真的，我确信并且确定这不是真的。但我儿子有危险，你要有一颗怜悯我的心。如果你知道任何别人不知道的事情，如果你有任何怀疑，如果你有任何线索，并且有任何理由把它藏在心里，哦，我亲爱的女士，想想我，征服它原因，并让大家知道！这是我认为最有可能的。我知道你不是一个严厉的女人，但你总是我行我素，没有帮助，而且你和你的朋友不熟悉；所有欣赏你——所有人都崇拜你——这位美丽而优雅的女士的人，都知道你是一个距离自己很远、无法靠近的人。女士，您可能出于某些骄傲或愤怒的原因而不愿说出您所知道的事情；如果是这样，请祈祷，哦，祈祷，想想一个忠实的仆人，她的一生都在这个她深爱的家庭中度过，并且发慈悲，帮助我的儿子洗清罪名！ “我的女士，我的好女士，”老管家真诚地恳求道，“我在我的位置上是如此谦卑，而您生性如此高远，以至于您可能不会想到我对我的孩子的感受，但我的感受是如此之多我来到这里是为了大胆地恳求并祈祷你不要蔑视我们，如果你能在这个可怕的时刻为我们伸张正义或伸张正义的话！

Lady Dedlock raises her without one word, until she takes the letter from her hand.
戴德洛克夫人一言不发地举起她，直到她从她手中接过信。

‘Am I to read this?’
“我应该读这个吗？”

‘When I am gone, my Lady, if you please, and then remembering the most that I consider possible.’
“当我离开后，夫人，请记住我认为可能的最多的事情。”

‘I know of nothing I can do. I know of nothing I reserve that can affect your son. I have never accused him.’
‘我不知道我能做什么。据我所知，我所保留的一切不会影响你儿子。我从未指责过他。

‘My Lady, you may pity him the more under a false accusation after reading the letter.’
“夫人，您读完这封信后，也许会更加同情他的诬告吧。”

The old housekeeper leaves her with the letter in her hand. In truth she is not a hard lady naturally, and the time has been when the sight of the venerable figure suing to her with such strong earnestness would have moved her to great compassion. But so long accustomed to suppress emotion and keep down reality, so long schooled for her own purposes in that destructive school which shuts up the natural feelings of the heart like flies in amber and spreads one uniform and dreary gloss over the good and bad, the feeling and the unfeeling, the sensible and the senseless, she had subdued even her wonder until now.
老管家留下她手里拿着的信。事实上，她本来就不是一个严厉的女士，当时看到那位尊者如此恳切地向她告状，她一定会生出大慈悲心。但是，她长期习惯于压抑情感，压制现实，长期在那种破坏性的学校里为了自己的目的而接受教育，这种学校像琥珀里的苍蝇一样封闭了内心的自然感情，并在好与坏上涂上了一层统一而沉闷的光泽，感情与无情，理智与无知，直到现在她也抑制住了自己的好奇心。

She opens the letter. Spread out upon the paper is a printed account of the discovery of the body as it lay face downward on the floor, shot through the heart; and underneath is written her own name, with the word ‘murderess’ attached.
她打开信。纸上铺着一份关于发现尸体的印刷记录，尸体面朝下躺在地板上，心脏被射穿；下面写着她自己的名字，并附有“凶手”两个字。

It falls out of her hand. How long it may have lain upon the ground she knows not, but it lies where it fell when a servant stands before her announcing the young man of the name of Guppy. The words have probably been repeated several times, for they are ringing in her head before she begins to understand them.
它从她手中掉下来。她不知道它在地上躺了多久，但当一个仆人站在她面前宣布有一个名叫孔雀鱼的年轻人时，它就躺在它掉下来的地方。这句话可能已经重复了好几次了，因为在她开始理解之前，它们就在她的脑海中响起。

‘Let him come in!’
“让他进来吧！”

He comes in. Holding the letter in her hand, which she has taken from the floor, she tries to collect her thoughts. In the eyes of Mr. Guppy she is the same Lady Dedlock, holding the same prepared, proud, chilling state.
他进来了。她手里拿着从地板上捡来的那封信，试图整理思绪。在古比先生的眼中，她就是同样的戴德洛克夫人，保持着同样准备好的、骄傲的、令人不寒而栗的状态。

‘Your ladyship may not be at first disposed to excuse this visit from one who has never been welcome to your ladyship’—which he don’t complain of, for he is bound to confess that there never has been any particular reason on the face of things why he should be— ‘but I hope when I mention my motives to your ladyship you will not find fault with me,’ says Mr. Guppy.
“您的女士一开始可能不会原谅一位从未受过您的女士欢迎的人来访”——他对此没有抱怨，因为他必须承认，脸上从来没有任何特殊的原因。 “但我希望当我向夫人提起我的动机时，您不会指责我，”古皮先生说。

‘Do so.’
'这样做。'

‘Thank your ladyship. I ought first to explain to your ladyship,’ Mr. Guppy sits on the edge of a chair and puts his hat on the carpet at his feet, ‘that Miss Summerson, whose image, as I formerly mentioned to your ladyship, was at one period of my life imprinted on my ‘eart until erased by circumstances over which I had no control, communicated to me, after I had the pleasure of waiting on your ladyship last, that she particularly wished me to take no steps whatever in any manner at all relating to her. And Miss Summerson’s wishes being to me a law (except as connected with circumstances over which I have no control), I consequently never expected to have the distinguished honour of waiting on your ladyship again.’
‘谢谢夫人。我应该首先向您的女士解释一下，”古皮先生坐在椅子的边缘，把帽子放在脚边的地毯上，“萨默森小姐，正如我之前向您的女士提到的那样，她的形象是在一个我一生中的一段时光印在我的心上，直到被我无法控制的环境所抹去，在我最后一次有幸侍候您的女士之后，她告诉我，她特别希望我不要以任何方式采取任何行动。一切都与她有关。萨默森小姐的愿望对我来说是一条法律（除非与我无法控制的情况有关），因此我从未想过能够再次荣幸地侍候您的女士。

And yet he is here now, Lady Dedlock moodily reminds him.
但他现在就在这里，戴德洛克夫人郁闷地提醒他。

‘And yet I am here now,’ Mr. Guppy admits. ‘My object being to communicate to your ladyship, under the seal of confidence, why I am here.’
“但我现在就在这里，”古比先生承认。 “我的目​​的是在保密的情况下向您的女士传达我为什么来这里。”

He cannot do so, she tells him, too plainly or too briefly. ‘Nor can I,’ Mr. Guppy returns with a sense of injury upon him, ‘too particularly request your ladyship to take particular notice that it’s no personal affair of mine that brings me here. I have no interested views of my own to serve in coming here. If it was not for my promise to Miss Summerson and my keeping of it sacred—I, in point of fact, shouldn’t have darkened these doors again, but should have seen ‘em further first.’
她告诉他，他不能这样做得太简单或太简单。 “我也不能，”古比先生带着一种受伤的感觉回道，“特别请求女士特别注意，我来这里并不是因为我的私人事务。”我对来到这里没有自己的兴趣。如果不是因为我对萨默森小姐的承诺以及我对它的神圣态度——事实上，我不应该再次把这些门弄暗，而应该“先把它们看得更远”。

Mr. Guppy considers this a favourable moment for sticking up his hair with both hands.
古比先生认为这是用双手把头发竖起来的有利时机。

‘Your ladyship will remember when I mention it that the last time I was here I run against a party very eminent in our profession and whose loss we all deplore. That party certainly did from that time apply himself to cutting in against me in a way that I will call sharp practice, and did make it, at every turn and point, extremely difficult for me to be sure that I hadn’t inadvertently led up to something contrary to Miss Summerson’s wishes. Self-praise is no recommendation, but I may say for myself that I am not so bad a man of business neither.’
“当我提到这一点时，女士们会记得，上次我来这里时，我与一个在我们行业中非常杰出的政党竞争，我们都对他们的失败感到遗憾。从那时起，那个政党确实致力于以一种我称之为敏锐练习的方式来反对我，并且确实使我在每一个转折点上都变得极其困难，以确保我没有无意中领导违背萨默森小姐意愿的事情自吹自擂并不是什么建议，但我可以对自己说，我也不是那么糟糕的生意人。

Lady Dedlock looks at him in stern inquiry. Mr. Guppy immediately withdraws his eyes from her face and looks anywhere else.
戴德洛克夫人严厉询问地看着他。孔雀先生立即将目光从她脸上移开，看向别处。

‘Indeed, it has been made so hard,’ he goes on, ‘to have any idea what that party was up to in combination with others that until the loss which we all deplore I was gravelled—an expression which your ladyship, moving in the higher circles, will be so good as to consider tantamount to knocked over. Small likewise—a name by which I refer to another party, a friend of mine that your ladyship is not acquainted with—got to be so close and double-faced that at times it wasn’t easy to keep one’s hands off his ‘ead. However, what with the exertion of my humble abilities, and what with the help of a mutual friend by the name of Mr. Tony Weevle (who is of a high aristocratic turn and has your ladyship’s portrait always hanging up in his room), I have now reasons for an apprehension as to which I come to put your ladyship upon your guard. First, will your ladyship allow me to ask you whether you have had any strange visitors this morning? I don’t mean fashionable visitors, but such visitors, for instance, as Miss Barbary’s old servant, or as a person without the use of his lower extremities, carried upstairs similarly to a guy?’
“事实上，”他继续说道，“要知道那一伙人与其他人联合在一起做了什么，直到我们都为之痛惜的损失之前，我才感到震惊——您的女士在移动时的表情圈子越高，就等于被打翻了。同样的，小——我用这个名字来指代另一方，我的一位朋友，夫人阁下不认识——必须如此亲密和双面，有时很难将手从他的头上移开。 。然而，凭借我微薄的能力，在我们共同的朋友托尼·韦弗勒先生（他是一位贵族出身，房间里总挂着您夫人的肖像）的帮助下，我现在我有理由担心我来提请夫人警惕。首先，请问女士，今天早上您是否有任何奇怪的访客？我指的不是时髦的访客，而是像巴巴里小姐的老仆人这样的访客，或者像一个男人一样被抬上楼的没有下肢的人？

‘No!’
'不！'

‘Then I assure your ladyship that such visitors have been here and have been received here. Because I saw them at the door, and waited at the corner of the square till they came out, and took half an hour’s turn afterwards to avoid them.’
“那么我向夫人保证，这些来访者已经来过这里，并且已经在这里受到接待。因为我在门口看到了他们，就在广场的拐角处等他们出来，然后绕了半个小时才避开他们。”

‘What have I to do with that, or what have you? I do not understand you. What do you mean?’
“这与我有什么关系，或者与你有什么关系？我不懂你。你是什​​么意思？'

‘Your ladyship, I come to put you on your guard. There may be no occasion for it. Very well. Then I have only done my best to keep my promise to Miss Summerson. I strongly suspect (from what Small has dropped, and from what we have corkscrewed out of him) that those letters I was to have brought to your ladyship were not destroyed when I supposed they were. That if there was anything to be blown upon, it IS blown upon. That the visitors I have alluded to have been here this morning to make money of it. And that the money is made, or making.’
“夫人，我是来提防您的。”也许没有机会这样做。很好。那么我也只是尽力履行对萨默森小姐的承诺而已。我强烈怀疑（从斯莫尔丢下的东西，以及我们从他身上钻出来的东西），我本该带给您女士的那些信并没有像我想象的那样被销毁。如果有什么东西可以被吹，它就被吹了。我提到的访客今天早上来这里是为了赚钱。钱已经赚到了，或者正在赚到。”

Mr. Guppy picks up his hat and rises.
古比先生拿起帽子站了起来。

‘Your ladyship, you know best whether there’s anything in what I say or whether there’s nothing. Something or nothing, I have acted up to Miss Summerson’s wishes in letting things alone and in undoing what I had begun to do, as far as possible; that’s sufficient for me. In case I should be taking a liberty in putting your ladyship on your guard when there’s no necessity for it, you will endeavour, I should hope, to outlive my presumption, and I shall endeavour to outlive your disapprobation. I now take my farewell of your ladyship, and assure you that there’s no danger of your ever being waited on by me again.’
“夫人，我说的有没有，你最清楚。”不管有没有，我已经按照萨默森小姐的意愿行事了，不管事情如何，并尽可能地撤销我已经开始做的事情。这对我来说就足够了。如果我在没有必要的情况下冒昧地让您的女士保持警惕，我希望您会努力克服我的傲慢，而我也会努力克服您的反对。现在，我向您的女士告别，并向您保证，我不会再伺候您了。

She scarcely acknowledges these parting words by any look, but when he has been gone a little while, she rings her bell.
她几乎没有从任何眼神中看出这些离别的话语，但当他离开一会儿后，她按响了门铃。

‘Where is Sir Leicester?’
“莱斯特爵士在哪里？”

Mercury reports that he is at present shut up in the library alone.
水星报告说，他目前独自一人被关在图书馆里。

‘Has Sir Leicester had any visitors this morning?’
“今天早上莱斯特爵士有访客吗？”

Several, on business. Mercury proceeds to a description of them, which has been anticipated by Mr. Guppy. Enough; he may go.
几个，出差。水星继续对它们进行描述，这正是古比先生所预料到的。足够的;他可能会去。

So! All is broken down. Her name is in these many mouths, her husband knows his wrongs, her shame will be published—may be spreading while she thinks about it—and in addition to the thunderbolt so long foreseen by her, so unforeseen by him, she is denounced by an invisible accuser as the murderess of her enemy.
所以！一切都崩溃了。她的名字在这么多人的嘴里，她的丈夫知道自己的错误，她的耻辱将被公布——可能在她思考的时候就蔓延开来——除了她早就预见到的、他没有预料到的霹雳之外，她还受到了一个无形的控告者，她是杀害敌人的凶手。

Her enemy he was, and she has often, often, often wished him dead. Her enemy he is, even in his grave. This dreadful accusation comes upon her like a new torment at his lifeless hand. And when she recalls how she was secretly at his door that night, and how she may be represented to have sent her favourite girl away so soon before merely to release herself from observation, she shudders as if the hangman’s hands were at her neck.
他是她的敌人，而她常常、常常、常常希望他死掉。他是她的敌人，即使在坟墓里也是如此。这种可怕的指控降临在她身上，就像对他那双毫无生气的手带来了新的折磨。当她回想起那天晚上她是如何偷偷地出现在他的门口，以及她如何被认为是为了摆脱监视而这么快就把她最喜欢的女孩送走时，她颤抖起来，仿佛刽子手的手放在了她的脖子上。

She has thrown herself upon the floor and lies with her hair all wildly scattered and her face buried in the cushions of a couch. She rises up, hurries to and fro, flings herself down again, and rocks and moans. The horror that is upon her is unutterable. If she really were the murderess, it could hardly be, for the moment, more intense.
她倒在地板上，头发散乱，脸埋在沙发垫子里。她站起来，急匆匆地来回走动，又扑倒在地，摇晃着，呻吟着。她身上的恐惧是难以言表的。如果她真的是女凶手，那么此刻的气氛就再强烈不过了。

For as her murderous perspective, before the doing of the deed, however subtle the precautions for its commission, would have been closed up by a gigantic dilatation of the hateful figure, preventing her from seeing any consequences beyond it; and as those consequences would have rushed in, in an unimagined flood, the moment the figure was laid low—which always happens when a murder is done; so, now she sees that when he used to be on the watch before her, and she used to think, ‘if some mortal stroke would but fall on this old man and take him from my way!’ it was but wishing that all he held against her in his hand might be flung to the winds and chance-sown in many places. So, too, with the wicked relief she has felt in his death. What was his death but the keystone of a gloomy arch removed, and now the arch begins to fall in a thousand fragments, each crushing and mangling piecemeal!
因为她的杀人视角在行动之前，无论其实施的预防措施多么微妙，都会被可恨人物的巨大扩张所封闭，阻止她看到除此之外的任何后果；一旦这个数字被压低，这些后果就会以难以想象的洪流涌入——这在谋杀案发生时总是会发生；所以，现在她看到了，当他以前在她面前守候时，她常常想，“如果致命的一击落在这个老人身上，让他离开我的道路就好了！”她只是希望他一切都好。他手中紧握着她的东西可能会被抛到九霄云外，并偶然散布在许多地方。同样，她因他的死而感到一种邪恶的解脱。他的死只不过是一座阴暗拱门的拱心石被移走，而现在拱门开始碎成一千块碎片，每一个碎片都被压碎和破坏！

Thus, a terrible impression steals upon and overshadows her that from this pursuer, living or dead—obdurate and imperturbable before her in his well-remembered shape, or not more obdurate and imperturbable in his coffin-bed—there is no escape but in death. Hunted, she flies. The complication of her shame, her dread, remorse, and misery, overwhelms her at its height; and even her strength of self-reliance is overturned and whirled away like a leaf before a mighty wind.
因此，一种可怕的印象悄然而至，笼罩在她的心头：对于这个追求者，不管是活着的还是死了的——在她面前，以他记忆深刻的样子，顽固而冷静地，或者在棺材床上表现得不那么顽固和冷静——除了死亡，别无出路。 。被追捕，她飞翔。她的羞耻感、恐惧、悔恨和痛苦的复杂性在最高峰时压倒了她。连她自立的力量也像狂风中的树叶一样被掀翻、卷走。

She hurriedly addresses these lines to her husband, seals, and leaves them on her table:
她赶紧把这几句话写给她的丈夫，密封起来，放在她的桌子上：

If I am sought for, or accused of, his murder, believe that I am wholly innocent. Believe no other good of me, for I am innocent of nothing else that you have heard, or will hear, laid to my charge. He prepared me, on that fatal night, for his disclosure of my guilt to you. After he had left me, I went out on pretence of walking in the garden where I sometimes walk, but really to follow him and make one last petition that he would not protract the dreadful suspense on which I have been racked by him, you do not know how long, but would mercifully strike next morning.
如果我被通缉或被指控谋杀他，请相信我是完全无辜的。不要相信我有任何其他好处，因为我对你所听到的或将要听到的对我的指控都是无辜的。在那个致命的夜晚，他让我做好准备，向你揭露我的罪行。他离开我后，我假装在我有时散步的花园里散步，但实际上是为了跟随他，并做最后的请求，请求他不要拖延我被他折磨的可怕悬念，你做的不知道要多久，但第二天早上就会仁慈地罢工。

I found his house dark and silent. I rang twice at his door, but there was no reply, and I came home.
我发现他的房子又黑又静。我按了他的门两次，但没有回应，我就回家了。

I have no home left. I will encumber you no more. May you, in your just resentment, be able to forget the unworthy woman on whom you have wasted a most generous devotion—who avoids you only with a deeper shame than that with which she hurries from herself—and who writes this last adieu.
我已经没有家了。我不会再拖累你了。愿你，在你正义的怨恨中，能够忘记那个不值得的女人，你在她身上浪费了最慷慨的奉献——她只是带着比匆忙离开自己更深的耻辱而躲避你——以及她写下了最后的告别。

She veils and dresses quickly, leaves all her jewels and her money, listens, goes downstairs at a moment when the hall is empty, opens and shuts the great door, flutters away in the shrill frosty wind.
她迅速戴上面纱，穿好衣服，留下所有的珠宝和钱，听着，在大厅空无一人的时候下楼，打开又关上大门，在刺骨的寒风中飘扬而去。

CHAPTER LVI
第六章


Pursuit
追求

Impassive, as behoves its high breeding, the Dedlock town house stares at the other houses in the street of dismal grandeur and gives no outward sign of anything going wrong within. Carriages rattle, doors are battered at, the world exchanges calls; ancient charmers with skeleton throats and peachy cheeks that have a rather ghastly bloom upon them seen by daylight, when indeed these fascinating creatures look like Death and the Lady fused together, dazzle the eyes of men. Forth from the frigid mews come easily swinging carriages guided by short-legged coachmen in flaxen wigs, deep sunk into downy hammercloths, and up behind mount luscious Mercuries bearing sticks of state and wearing cocked hats broadwise, a spectacle for the angels.
戴德洛克的联排别墅冷漠无情，与它高贵的教养相称，它凝视着街上其他雄伟的房屋，没有任何外在迹象表明内部有任何问题。马车嘎嘎作响，门被撞坏，世界互相呼唤；古老的魔术师有着骷髅喉咙和桃红色的脸颊，在白天看到它们上面有一种相当可怕的花朵，而这些迷人的生物确实看起来像死亡和女士融合在一起，让人们眼花​​缭乱。从寒冷的马厩中驶出轻松摇摆的马车，由戴着亚麻假发的短腿车夫引导，深深地陷入柔软的锤布中，在甜美的水星山后面，他们手举国徽，头戴三角帽，这是天使们的奇观。

The Dedlock town house changes not externally, and hours pass before its exalted dullness is disturbed within. But Volumnia the fair, being subject to the prevalent complaint of boredom and finding that disorder attacking her spirits with some virulence, ventures at length to repair to the library for change of scene. Her gentle tapping at the door producing no response, she opens it and peeps in; seeing no one there, takes possession.
戴德洛克联排别墅的外部没有任何变化，几个小时过去了，其崇高的沉闷感才被扰乱。但是，公平的沃伦尼娅普遍抱怨无聊，并发现这种混乱对她的精神产生了某种毒性，最终冒险去图书馆换个场景。她轻轻敲了敲门，没有任何反应，她打开门往里看；看到那里没有人，就占有了。

The sprightly Dedlock is reputed, in that grass-grown city of the ancients, Bath, to be stimulated by an urgent curiosity which impels her on all convenient and inconvenient occasions to sidle about with a golden glass at her eye, peering into objects of every description. Certain it is that she avails herself of the present opportunity of hovering over her kinsman’s letters and papers like a bird, taking a short peck at this document and a blink with her head on one side at that document, and hopping about from table to table with her glass at her eye in an inquisitive and restless manner. In the course of these researches she stumbles over something, and turning her glass in that direction, sees her kinsman lying on the ground like a felled tree.
活泼的戴德洛克在古代的巴斯这座草木茂盛的城市里享有盛誉，她受到一种强烈的好奇心的刺激，这种好奇心驱使她在一切方便和不方便的场合，都带着金色的眼镜，侧身走来走去，凝视着各种物体。描述。可以肯定的是，她利用了目前的机会，像小鸟一样盘旋在亲戚的信件和文件上，在这份文件上轻轻啄了一下，然后把头偏向那份文件，眨了眨眼，然后从一张桌子跳到另一张桌子她把眼镜放在眼睛上，神情好奇而焦躁。在这些研究的过程中，她被什么东西绊倒了，然后把望远镜转向那个方向，看到她的亲戚像一棵被砍倒的树一样躺在地上。

Volumnia’s pet little scream acquires a considerable augmentation of reality from this surprise, and the house is quickly in commotion. Servants tear up and down stairs, bells are violently rung, doctors are sent for, and Lady Dedlock is sought in all directions, but not found. Nobody has seen or heard her since she last rang her bell. Her letter to Sir Leicester is discovered on her table, but it is doubtful yet whether he has not received another missive from another world requiring to be personally answered, and all the living languages, and all the dead, are as one to him.
沃伦尼亚那可爱的小尖叫声从这个惊喜中获得了相当大的现实增强，房子很快就骚动起来。仆人们在楼梯上撕扯，门铃被猛烈地敲响，医生被请来，人们四处寻找戴德洛克夫人，但没有找到。自从她上次按响门铃以来，没有人见过或听到过她的声音。她写给莱斯特爵士的信在她的桌子上被发现，但令人怀疑的是，他是否还没有收到另一封来自另一个世界的需要亲自答复的信，所有活着的语言和所有死去的语言对他来说都是一样的。

They lay him down upon his bed, and chafe, and rub, and fan, and put ice to his head, and try every means of restoration. Howbeit, the day has ebbed away, and it is night in his room before his stertorous breathing lulls or his fixed eyes show any consciousness of the candle that is occasionally passed before them. But when this change begins, it goes on; and by and by he nods or moves his eyes or even his hand in token that he hears and comprehends.
他们把他放在床上，擦伤、揉搓、扇风、用冰块敷在他的头上，尝试各种恢复的方法。然而，白天已经过去了，他的房间里已经是晚上了，他的喘息声渐渐平息，他的目光也没有看到偶尔在他们面前经过的蜡烛。但当这种变化开始时，它就会继续下去；渐渐地，他会点头或移动眼睛，甚至移动他的手，以表示他听到并理解了。

He fell down, this morning, a handsome stately gentleman, somewhat infirm, but of a fine presence, and with a well-filled face. He lies upon his bed, an aged man with sunken cheeks, the decrepit shadow of himself. His voice was rich and mellow and he had so long been thoroughly persuaded of the weight and import to mankind of any word he said that his words really had come to sound as if there were something in them. But now he can only whisper, and what he whispers sounds like what it is—mere jumble and jargon.
今天早上，他倒下了，一位英俊庄严的绅士，身体有些虚弱，但风度翩翩，面容丰润。他躺在床上，是一个双颊凹陷的老人，是他自己衰老的影子。他的声音浑厚而柔和，长久以来他已经彻底相信他所说的任何一句话对人类的分量和重要性，他的话听起来确实好像有什么东西在里面。但现在他只能低声细语，而且他低声说的话听上去就像是一些杂音和行话。

His favourite and faithful housekeeper stands at his bedside. It is the first act he notices, and he clearly derives pleasure from it. After vainly trying to make himself understood in speech, he makes signs for a pencil. So inexpressively that they cannot at first understand him; it is his old housekeeper who makes out what he wants and brings in a slate.
他最喜爱、最忠实的管家站在他的床边。这是他注意到的第一个动作，他显然从中获得了乐趣。在试图让自己的言语被理解但徒劳之后，他做了一个铅笔手势。他的言语如此含蓄，以至于他们一开始无法理解他的意思。是他的老管家弄清楚了他想要什么，并拿来一块石板。

After pausing for some time, he slowly scrawls upon it in a hand that is not his, ‘Chesney Wold?’
停顿了一段时间后，他用一只不是他的手慢慢地在上面写着：“切斯尼沃尔德？”

No, she tells him; he is in London. He was taken ill in the library this morning. Right thankful she is that she happened to come to London and is able to attend upon him.
不，她告诉他；他在伦敦。今天早上他在图书馆生病了。庆幸的是，她碰巧来到了伦敦，能够照顾他。

‘It is not an illness of any serious consequence, Sir Leicester. You will be much better to-morrow, Sir Leicester. All the gentlemen say so.’ This, with the tears coursing down her fair old face.
“这不是一种会造成严重后果的疾病，莱斯特爵士。明天你会好很多，莱斯特爵士。所有的先生们都这么说。”说着，泪水顺着她苍白的脸庞流了下来。

After making a survey of the room and looking with particular attention all round the bed where the doctors stand, he writes, ‘My Lady.’
在巡视了整个房间并特别仔细地观察了医生站立的床周围后，他写道：“我的女士。”

‘My Lady went out, Sir Leicester, before you were taken ill, and don’t know of your illness yet.’
“莱斯特爵士，夫人在您生病之前就出去了，还不知道您的病情。”

He points again, in great agitation, at the two words. They all try to quiet him, but he points again with increased agitation. On their looking at one another, not knowing what to say, he takes the slate once more and writes ‘My Lady. For God’s sake, where?’ And makes an imploring moan.
他再次激动地指着这两个词。他们都试图让他安静下来，但他更加激动地再次指着。他们面面相觑，不知道该说什么，他再次拿起石板，写下“我的女士”。看在上帝的份上，去哪儿？’并发出恳求的呻吟声。

It is thought better that his old housekeeper should give him Lady Dedlock’s letter, the contents of which no one knows or can surmise. She opens it for him and puts it out for his perusal. Having read it twice by a great effort, he turns it down so that it shall not be seen and lies moaning. He passes into a kind of relapse or into a swoon, and it is an hour before he opens his eyes, reclining on his faithful and attached old servant’s arm. The doctors know that he is best with her, and when not actively engaged about him, stand aloof.
人们认为，最好让他的老管家把戴德洛克夫人的信交给他，而信的内容无人知道，也无法猜测。她为他打开并拿出来供他细读。他费了好大的劲才读了两遍，然后把它关掉，以免别人看到它，然后躺在地上呻吟。他陷入了某种旧病复发或昏迷状态，一个小时后他才睁开眼睛，斜靠在他忠诚而依附的老仆人的手臂上。医生们知道他和她在一起是最好的，当他不积极参与他的事情时，就保持距离。

The slate comes into requisition again, but the word he wants to write he cannot remember. His anxiety, his eagerness, and affliction at this pass are pitiable to behold. It seems as if he must go mad in the necessity he feels for haste and the inability under which he labours of expressing to do what or to fetch whom. He has written the letter B, and there stopped. Of a sudden, in the height of his misery, he puts Mr. before it. The old housekeeper suggests Bucket. Thank heaven! That’s his meaning.
石板再次被征用，但他想写的字却记不住了。他在这个关口的焦虑、他的渴望和痛苦是令人可怜的。似乎他必须发疯，因为他觉得有必要匆忙，而他又无法表达要做什么或去找谁。他写了字母B，然后停了下来。突然，在他最痛苦的时候，他把先生放在了前面。老管家建议用桶。谢天谢地！这就是他的意义。

Mr. Bucket is found to be downstairs, by appointment. Shall he come up?
巴克特先生按照预约被发现在楼下。他要上来吗？

There is no possibility of misconstruing Sir Leicester’s burning wish to see him or the desire he signifies to have the room cleared of every one but the housekeeper. It is speedily done, and Mr. Bucket appears. Of all men upon earth, Sir Leicester seems fallen from his high estate to place his sole trust and reliance upon this man.
不可能误解莱斯特爵士想要见到他的强烈愿望，或者他表示希望把房间里除了管家之外的所有人都清理干净的愿望。事情很快就完成了，巴克特先生出现了。在地球上的所有人中，莱斯特爵士似乎从他的崇高地位上堕落到将他唯一的信任和依赖寄托在这个人身上。

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I’m sorry to see you like this. I hope you’ll cheer up. I’m sure you will, on account of the family credit.’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，我很遗憾看到你这个样子。我希望你能振作起来。我相信你会的，因为有家庭信用。”

Leicester puts her letter in his hands and looks intently in his face while he reads it. A new intelligence comes into Mr. Bucket’s eye as he reads on; with one hook of his finger, while that eye is still glancing over the words, he indicates, ‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I understand you.’
莱斯特把她的信放在他手里，在读信时专心地看着他的脸。当巴克特先生继续读下去时，一个新的情报进入了他的眼帘。他用手指一勾，同时那只眼睛仍在扫视这些文字，他表示：“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，我明白你的意思。”

Sir Leicester writes upon the slate. ‘Full forgiveness. Find—‘ Mr. Bucket stops his hand.
莱斯特爵士在石板上写道。 ‘完全的宽恕。找到——”巴克特先生停下了手。

‘Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I’ll find her. But my search after her must be begun out of hand. Not a minute must be lost.’
“莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，我会找到她的。”但我必须立即开始寻找她。一分钟都不能浪费。

With the quickness of thought, he follows Sir Leicester Dedlock’s look towards a little box upon a table.
他思维敏捷，顺着莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士的目光看向桌子上的一个小盒子。

‘Bring it here, Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet? Certainly. Open it with one of these here keys? Certainly. The littlest key? TO be sure. Take the notes out? So I will. Count ‘em? That’s soon done. Twenty and thirty’s fifty, and twenty’s seventy, and fifty’s one twenty, and forty’s one sixty. Take ‘em for expenses? That I’ll do, and render an account of course. Don’t spare money? No I won’t.’
“把它带到这里来，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵？当然。用这里的这些键之一打开它？当然。最小的钥匙？为了确定。把笔记拿出来？所以我会。数数？很快就完成了。二十岁、三十岁五十、二十岁七十岁、五十岁一二十岁、四十岁一六十岁。拿它们当开支吗？我会做的，当然还要提供一个帐户。不省钱吗？不，我不会。

The velocity and certainty of Mr. Bucket’s interpretation on all these heads is little short of miraculous. Mrs. Rouncewell, who holds the light, is giddy with the swiftness of his eyes and hands as he starts up, furnished for his journey.
巴克特先生对所有这些问题的解释的速度和确定性几乎是奇迹。当他开始为他的旅程做好准备时，拿着灯的朗斯韦尔夫人因他的眼睛和双手的敏捷而感到头晕。

‘You’re George’s mother, old lady; that’s about what you are, I believe?’ says Mr. Bucket aside, with his hat already on and buttoning his coat.
“你是乔治的母亲，老太太； “这就是你的性格，我相信？”巴克特先生在一边说道，他已经戴上了帽子，扣上了外套的扣子。

‘Yes, sir, I am his distressed mother.’
“是的，先生，我是他痛苦的母亲。”

‘So I thought, according to what he mentioned to me just now. Well, then, I’ll tell you something. You needn’t be distressed no more. Your son’s all right. Now, don’t you begin a-crying, because what you’ve got to do is to take care of Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, and you won’t do that by crying. As to your son, he’s all right, I tell you; and he sends his loving duty, and hoping you’re the same. He’s discharged honourable; that’s about what HE is; with no more imputation on his character than there is on yours, and yours is a tidy one, I’LL bet a pound. You may trust me, for I took your son. He conducted himself in a game way, too, on that occasion; and he’s a fine-made man, and you’re a fine-made old lady, and you’re a mother and son, the pair of you, as might be showed for models in a caravan. Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, what you’ve trusted to me I’ll go through with. Don’t you be afraid of my turing out of my way, right or left, or taking a sleep, or a wash, or a shave till I have found what I go in search of. Say everything as is kind and forgiving on your part? Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, I will. And I wish you better, and these family affairs smoothed over—as, Lord, many other family affairs equally has been, and equally wlll be, to the end of time.’
‘所以我想，根据他刚才对我说的话。好吧，那么，我告诉你一件事。你不必再苦恼了。你儿子没事。现在，你不要开始哭泣，因为你要做的就是照顾莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，你不会通过哭泣来做到这一点。至于你的儿子，我告诉你，他很好；他发送了他的爱的责任，并希望你也一样。他光荣退伍；这就是 HE；对他的品格的指责并不比对你的品格的指责多，而且你的品格很干净，我赌一英镑。你可以相信我，因为我带走了你的儿子。那次他的表现也很有趣。他是一个身材好的男人，你是一个身材好的老太太，你们是一对母子，就像大篷车里的模特那样。莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，男爵，您所托付给我的事情我都会完成。你不要害怕我会左右闪开，或者睡觉、洗澡、刮胡子，直到我找到我要寻找的东西。你所说的一切都是友善和宽容的吗？莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，我会的。我祝愿你一切顺利，这些家庭事务也能顺利结束——主啊，许多其他家庭事务同样已经如此，也将同样如此，直到时间的尽头。

With this peroration, Mr. Bucket, buttoned up, goes quietly out, looking steadily before him as if he were already piercing the night in quest of the fugitive.
说完这句话，巴克特先生扣紧扣子，静静地走了出去，目光定定地看着前方，仿佛他已经在刺穿夜色寻找逃犯了。

His first step is to take himself to Lady Dedlock’s rooms and look all over them for any trifling indication that may help him. The rooms are in darkness now; and to see Mr. Bucket with a wax-light in his hand, holding it above his head and taking a sharp mental inventory of the many delicate objects so curiously at variance with himself, would be to see a sight—which nobody DOES see, as he is particular to lock himself in.
他的第一步是带自己去戴德洛克夫人的房间，仔细查看所有房间，寻找任何可能对他有帮助的微小迹象。房间里现在一片漆黑。看到巴克特先生手里拿着一盏蜡灯，把它举过头顶，在心里对许多与他自己如此奇怪地不一致的精致物体进行了敏锐的清查，那就是看到了一个没有人看到的景象，因为他特别把自己锁在里面。

‘A spicy boudoir, this,’ says Mr. Bucket, who feels in a manner furbished up in his French by the blow of the morning. ‘Must have cost a sight of money. Rum articles to cut away from, these; she must have been hard put to it!’
“这是一个辛辣的闺房，”巴克特先生说，他感觉自己的法语在早晨的吹拂下变得焕然一新。 ‘肯定花了很多钱。要远离的朗姆酒文章，这些；她一定很难受！

Opening and shutting table-drawers and looking into caskets and jewel-cases, he sees the reflection of himself in various mirrors, and moralizes thereon.
打开和关闭桌子抽屉，查看棺材和珠宝盒，他在各种镜子中看到自己的倒影，并据此进行道德教育。

‘One might suppose I was a-moving in the fashionable circles and getting myself up for almac’s,’ says Mr. Bucket. ‘I begin to think I must be a swell in the Guards without knowing it.’
“人们可能会认为我正在时尚圈里活动，并为 almac's 做准备，”巴克特先生说。 “我开始认为我一定是在不知不觉中成为近卫军中的佼佼者。”

Ever looking about, he has opened a dainty little chest in an inner drawer. His great hand, turning over some gloves which it can scarcely feel, they are so light and soft within it, comes upon a white handkerchief.
他环顾四周，在里面的抽屉里打开了一个精致的小箱子。他的大手翻过几副几乎感觉不到的手套，里面的手套是如此的轻盈和柔软，落在一块白色的手帕上。

‘Hum! Let’s have a look at YOU,’ says Mr. Bucket, putting down the light. ‘What should YOU be kept by yourself for? What’s YOUR motive? Are you her ladyship’s property, or somebody else’s? You’ve got a mark upon you somewheres or another, I suppose?’
'哼！让我们看看你，”巴克特先生说，关上了灯。 ‘你一个人留着干什么？你的动机是什么？你是她夫人的财产，还是别人的财产？我想你身上有什么地方有记号吧？

He finds it as he speaks, ‘Esther Summerson.’
当他说话时，他发现了它，“埃丝特·萨默森。”

‘Oh!’ says Mr. Bucket, pausing, with his finger at his ear. ‘Come, I’ll take YOU.’
“哦！”巴克特先生停了下来，手指放在耳朵上。 “来吧，我带你去。”

He completes his observations as quietly and carefully as he has carried them on, leaves everything else precisely as he found it, glides away after some five minutes in all, and passes into the street. With a glance upward at the dimly lighted windows of Sir Leicester’s room, he sets off, full-swing, to the nearest coachstand, picks out the horse for his money, and directs to be driven to the shooting gallery. Mr. Bucket does not claim to be a scientific judge of horses, but he lays out a little money on the principal events in that line, and generally sums up his knowledge of the subject in the remark that when he sees a horse as can go, he knows him.
他安静而仔细地完成了他的观察，就像他进行观察时一样，将其他一切都保留在他发现的地方，总共大约五分钟后滑行离开，进入街道。他抬头看了一眼莱斯特爵士房间灯光昏暗的窗户，然后全速出发，来到最近的马车架，挑选了他要付钱的马，然后指示将其赶到射击场。巴克特先生并不声称自己是马匹的科学评判者，但他在这方面的主要事件上投入了一点钱，并在评论中概括了他对这一主题的知识：当他看到一匹马可以走时，他认识他。

His knowledge is not at fault in the present instance. Clattering over the stones at a dangerous pace, yet thoughtfully bringing his keen eyes to bear on every slinking creature whom he passes in the midnight streets, and even on the lights in upper windows where people are going or gone to bed, and on all the turnings that he rattles by, and alike on the heavy sky, and on the earth where the snow lies thin—for something may present itself to assist him, anywhere—he dashes to his destination at such a speed that when he stops the horse half smothers him in a cloud of steam.
在目前的情况下，他的知识并没有错。以危险的速度在石头上嘎嘎作响，但深思熟虑地用他敏锐的眼睛观察他在午夜街道上经过的每一个鬼鬼祟祟的生物，甚至观察人们正在上床睡觉的楼上窗户的灯光，以及所有的东西。他嘎嘎作响地经过转弯处，无论是在厚重的天空上，还是在雪薄的大地上——因为无论在任何地方，都有可能出现帮助他的东西——他以如此快的速度冲向目的地，以至于当他把马停下来时，他的速度是如此之快。让他被一团蒸汽窒息。

‘Unbear him half a moment to freshen him up, and I’ll be back.’
“让他放松半分钟，让他恢复一下精神，我就会回来的。”

He runs up the long wooden entry and finds the trooper smoking his pipe.
他跑上长长的木头入口，发现士兵正在抽烟斗。

‘I thought I should, George, after what you have gone through, my lad. I haven’t a word to spare. Now, honour! All to save a woman. Miss Summerson that was here when Gridley died—that was the name, I know—all right—where does she live?’
“我想我应该这样做，乔治，在你经历了这些之后，我的小伙子。我无话可说。现在，荣誉！一切都是为了救一个女人。格里德利去世时萨默森小姐就在这里——这就是名字，我知道——好吧——她住在哪里？

The trooper has just come from there and gives him the address, near Oxford Street.
警察刚刚从那里过来，给了他地址，靠近牛津街。

‘You won’t repent it, George. Good night!’
“你不会后悔的，乔治。晚安！'

He is off again, with an impression of having seen Phil sitting by the frosty fire staring at him open-mouthed, and gallops away again, and gets out in a cloud of steam again.
他再次出发，仿佛看到菲尔坐在冰冷的火边，张大嘴巴盯着他，然后再次策马离开，再次在一团蒸汽中下车。

Mr. Jarndyce, the only person up in the house, is just going to bed, rises from his book on hearing the rapid ringing at the bell, and comes down to the door in his dressing-gown.
贾迪斯先生是房子里唯一的人，他正要睡觉，听到急促的铃声响起，他从书本上站起来，穿着晨衣来到门口。

‘Don’t be alarmed, sir.’ In a moment his visitor is confidential with him in the hall, has shut the door, and stands with his hand upon the lock. ‘I’ve had the pleasure of seeing you before. Inspector Bucket. Look at that handkerchief, sir, Miss Esther Summerson’s. Found it myself put away in a drawer of Lady Dedlock’s, quarter of an hour ago. Not a moment to lose. Matter of life or death. You know Lady Dedlock?’
“别惊慌，先生。” 一会儿，他的来访者就在大厅里和他保密了，关上了门，站在那里，手放在锁上。 ‘我以前很高兴见到你。督察桶。先生，看看那块手帕，是埃丝特·萨默森小姐的。一刻钟前，我发现它被放在戴德洛克夫人的抽屉里。一刻也不能浪费。生死攸关的事情。你认识德洛克夫人吗？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘There has been a discovery there to-day. Family affairs have come out. Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, has had a fit—apoplexy or paralysis—and couldn’t be brought to, and precious time has been lost. Lady Dedlock disappeared this afternoon and left a letter for him that looks bad. Run your eye over it. Here it is!’
‘今天那里有一个发现。家里的事情都出来了。莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士，从男爵，突然发作——中风或瘫痪——无法被救治，宝贵的时间也被浪费了。戴德洛克夫人今天下午失踪了，并给他留下了一封看起来很糟糕的信。仔细观察它。这里是！'

Mr. Jarndyce, having read it, asks him what he thinks.
贾迪斯先生读完后问他有何感想。

‘I don’t know. It looks like suicide. Anyways, there’s more and more danger, every minute, of its drawing to that. I’d give a hundred pound an hour to have got the start of the present time. Now, Mr. Jarndyce, I am employed by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, to follow her and find her, to save her and take her his forgiveness. I have money and full power, but I want something else. I want Miss Summerson.’
'我不知道。看起来像是自杀。不管怎样，每一分钟，它所面临的危险都越来越大。我愿意每小时付出一百英镑来开始现在的时光。现在，贾迪斯先生，我受莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士从男爵的雇佣，跟踪她并找到她，拯救她并获得她的宽恕。我有钱有权力，但我想要别的东西。我想要萨默森小姐。

Mr. Jarndyce in a troubled voice repeats, ‘Miss Summerson?’
贾迪斯先生用困惑的声音重复道：“萨默森小姐？”

‘Now, Mr. Jarndyce’—Mr. Bucket has read his face with the greatest attention all along—‘I speak to you as a gentleman of a humane heart, and under such pressing circumstances as don’t often happen. If ever delay was dangerous, it’s dangerous now; and if ever you couldn’t afterwards forgive yourself for causing it, this is the time. Eight or ten hours, worth, as I tell you, a hundred pound apiece at least, have been lost since Lady Dedlock disappeared. I am charged to find her. I am Inspector Bucket. Besides all the rest that’s heavy on her, she has upon her, as she believes, suspicion of murder. If I follow her alone, she, being in ignorance of what Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, has communicated to me, may be driven to desperation. But if I follow her in company with a young lady, answering to the description of a young lady that she has a tenderness for—I ask no question, and I say no more than that—she will give me credit for being friendly. Let me come up with her and be able to have the hold upon her of putting that young lady for’ard, and I’ll save her and prevail with her if she is alive. Let me come up with her alone—a hard matter—and I’ll do my best, but I don’t answer for what the best may be. Time flies; it’s getting on for one o’clock. When one strikes, there’s another hour gone, and it’s worth a thousand pound now instead of a hundred.’
“现在，贾迪斯先生”——巴克特一直全神贯注地观察着他的表情——“我以一位仁慈的绅士的身份对你说话，而且是在这种不常发生的紧迫情况下。”如果说拖延曾经是危险的，那么现在也是危险的。如果事后你无法原谅自己造成的后果，现在就是时候了。自从戴德洛克夫人失踪以来，已经损失了八到十个小时，我告诉你，每个人至少损失了一百英镑。我受命去找她。我是巴克警督。除了所有让她感到沉重的事情之外，正如她所相信的那样，她还有谋杀的嫌疑。如果我单独跟随她，她可能会因为不了解莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士向我传达的信息而陷入绝望。但如果我和一位年轻女士一起跟随她，回答她对一位年轻女士的温柔描述——我不问任何问题，我只说这些——她会认为我很友善。让我跟上她，能够抓住她，把那位年轻女士放在前面，如果她还活着，我会救她并战胜她。让我单独去找她——这是一件困难的事情——我会尽力而为，但我不会回答什么是最好的。时光飞逝;已经一点钟了。当其中一个击中时，又过去了一个小时，现在它值一千英镑，而不是一百英镑。

This is all true, and the pressing nature of the case cannot be questioned. Mr. Jarndyce begs him to remain there while he speaks to Miss Summerson. Mr. Bucket says he will, but acting on his usual principle, does no such thing, following upstairs instead and keeping his man in sight. So he remains, dodging and lurking about in the gloom of the staircase while they confer. In a very little time Mr. Jarndyce comes down and tells him that Miss Summerson will join him directly and place herself under his protection to accompany him where he pleases. Mr. Bucket, satisfied, expresses high approval and awaits her coming at the door.
这都是事实，案件的紧迫性不容质疑。贾迪斯先生恳求他在与萨默森小姐交谈时留在那儿。巴克特先生说他会的，但按照他一贯的原则，他没有这么做，而是跟着上楼，让他的人在他的视线范围内。于是，当他们交谈时，他留下来，躲闪着，潜伏在阴暗的楼梯里。不久之后，贾迪斯先生下来告诉他，萨默森小姐将直接加入他，并将自己置于他的保护之下，随他去任何他想去的地方。巴克特先生很满意，表示高度认可，并在门口等待她的到来。

There he mounts a high tower in his mind and looks out far and wide. Many solitary figures he perceives creeping through the streets; many solitary figures out on heaths, and roads, and lying under haystacks. But the figure that he seeks is not among them. Other solitaries he perceives, in nooks of bridges, looking over; and in shadowed places down by the river’s level; and a dark, dark, shapeless object drifting with the tide, more solitary than all, clings with a drowning hold on his attention.
他在心中登上了一座高塔，眺望远方。他看到许多孤独的人影在街道上爬行。许多孤独的身影出现在荒野、道路上，以及躺在干草堆下。但他所寻找的人物并不在其中。他在桥的角落里看到了其他孤独的人，在张望；以及河水位以下的阴影处；一个黑暗的、黑暗的、无形的物体随着潮水漂流，比一切都更加孤独，紧紧地抓住了他的注意力。

Where is she? Living or dead, where is she? If, as he folds the handkerchief and carefully puts it up, it were able with an enchanted power to bring before him the place where she found it and the night-landscape near the cottage where it covered the little child, would he descry her there? On the waste where the brick-kilns are burning with a pale blue flare, where the strawroofs of the wretched huts in which the bricks are made are being scattered by the wind, where the clay and water are hard frozen and the mill in which the gaunt blind horse goes round all day looks like an instrument of human torture—traversing this deserted, blighted spot there is a lonely figure with the sad world to itself, pelted by the snow and driven by the wind, and cast out, it would seem, from all companionship. It is the figure of a woman, too; but it is miserably dressed, and no such clothes ever came through the hall and out at the great door of the Dedlock mansion.
她在哪？生还是死，她在哪里？如果，当他折叠手帕并小心地把它放起来时，它能以一种神奇的力量将她发现它的地方和它覆盖着小孩的小屋附近的夜景带到他面前，他会在那里看到她吗？ ？在荒原上，砖窑燃烧着淡蓝色的火光，制砖的破旧小屋的草屋顶被风吹散，粘土和水都结冰了，磨坊里的砖块被风吹散了。瘦弱的盲马终日转来转去，就像是人类的酷刑工具——走过这片荒凉、枯萎的地方，有一个孤独的身影，带着悲伤的世界，被雪击打，被风吹走，似乎被抛弃了。 ，来自一切陪伴。这也是一个女人的形象；但它的穿着很破烂，从来没有这样的衣服穿过大厅，从戴德洛克宅邸的大门出来。

CHAPTER LVII
第四十七章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

I had gone to bed and fallen asleep when my guardian knocked at the door of my room and begged me to get up directly. On my hurrying to speak to him and learn what had happened, he told me, after a word or two of preparation, that there had been a discovery at Sir Leicester Dedlock’s. That my mother had fled, that a person was now at our door who was empowered to convey to her the fullest assurances of affectionate protection and forgiveness if he could possibly find her, and that I was sought for to accompany him in the hope that my entreaties might prevail upon her if his failed. Something to this general purpose I made out, but I was thrown into such a tumult of alarm, and hurry and distress, that in spite of every effort I could make to subdue my agitation, I did not seem, to myself, fully to recover my right mind until hours had passed.
我已经上床睡觉了，监护人敲了敲我的房门，让我直接起床。当我急忙去跟他谈话并了解发生了什么事时，他经过一两句话的准备后告诉我，莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士有一个发现。我的母亲已经逃走了，现在有一个人就在我们家门口，如果他能找到她，他有权向她表达最充分的深情保护和宽恕，而我被找来陪伴他，希望我的母亲能找到她。如果他的恳求失败的话，她可能会被说服。我想出了一些达到这个总体目的的东西，但我陷入了如此惊慌、匆忙和痛苦的混乱之中，尽管我尽了一切努力来抑制我的激动，但我自己似乎并没有完全恢复过来。直到几个小时过去，我的头脑才清醒。

But I dressed and wrapped up expeditiously without waking Charley or any one and went down to Mr. Bucket, who was the person entrusted with the secret. In taking me to him my guardian told me this, and also explained how it was that he had come to think of me. Mr. Bucket, in a low voice, by the light of my guardian’s candle, read to me in the hall a letter that my mother had left upon her table; and I suppose within ten minutes of my having been aroused I was sitting beside him, rolling swiftly through the streets.
但我很快就穿好衣服，没有吵醒查理或任何人，就下楼去见巴克特先生，他就是被托付这个秘密的人。在带我去见他时，我的监护人告诉了我这一点，并解释了他是如何想到我的。巴克特先生在大厅里借着我监护人的烛光低声给我读了一封我母亲留在桌子上的信。我想在我被唤醒后不到十分钟，我就坐在他旁边，快速地滚过街道。

His manner was very keen, and yet considerate when he explained to me that a great deal might depend on my being able to answer, without confusion, a few questions that he wished to ask me. These were, chiefly, whether I had had much communication with my mother (to whom he only referred as Lady Dedlock), when and where I had spoken with her last, and how she had become possessed of my handkerchief. When I had satisfied him on these points, he asked me particularly to consider—taking time to think—whether within my knowledge there was any one, no matter where, in whom she might be at all likely to confide under circumstances of the last necessity. I could think of no one but my guardian. But by and by I mentioned Mr. Boythorn. He came into my mind as connected with his old chivalrous manner of mentioning my mother’s name and with what my guardian had informed me of his engagement to her sister and his unconscious connexion with her unhappy story.
当他向我解释说，很大程度上取决于我能否毫无困惑地回答他想问我的几个问题时，他的态度非常敏锐，但又很体贴。这些主要是，我是否与我的母亲（他只称她为戴德洛克夫人）进行过多次交流，我最后一次与她交谈的时间和地点，以及她是如何拥有我的手帕的。当我对这些观点感到满意后，他要求我特别考虑——花时间思考——在我的知识范围内，无论在哪里，在最后必要的情况下，她是否有可能向谁吐露心声。 。除了我的监护人之外，我想不到任何人。但渐渐地我提到了博伊索恩先生。他进入我的脑海，是因为他提到我母亲的名字时那种古老的侠义态度，以及我的监护人告诉我的他与她姐姐订婚的消息，以及他与她不幸的故事的无意识联系。

My companion had stopped the driver while we held this conversation, that we might the better hear each other. He now told him to go on again and said to me, after considering within himself for a few moments, that he had made up his mind how to proceed. He was quite willing to tell me what his plan was, but I did not feel clear enough to understand it.
当我们谈话时，我的同伴拦住了司机，以便我们能更好地听到彼此的声音。现在他让他再继续，并对我说，在他自己考虑了一会儿之后，他已经决定如何继续。他很愿意告诉我他的计划是什么，但我感觉还不够清楚，无法理解。

We had not driven very far from our lodgings when we stopped in a by-street at a public-looking place lighted up with gas. Mr. Bucket took me in and sat me in an armchair by a bright fire. It was now past one, as I saw by the clock against the wall. Two police officers, looking in their perfectly neat uniform not at all like people who were up all night, were quietly writing at a desk; and the place seemed very quiet altogether, except for some beating and calling out at distant doors underground, to which nobody paid any attention.
距离住所没开多远，我们停在一条小街上，停在一个点燃了煤气灯的公共场所。巴克特先生带我进去，让我坐在明亮的炉火旁的扶手椅上。我从墙上的时钟上看到，现在已经过了一点了。两名警察，穿着整齐的制服，一点也不像熬夜的人，正在办公桌前安静地写着字。这个地方看起来非常安静，除了地下远处的门上传来一些敲打声和呼喊声，没有人理会。

A third man in uniform, whom Mr. Bucket called and to whom he whispered his instructions, went out; and then the two others advised together while one wrote from Mr. Bucket’s subdued dictation. It was a description of my mother that they were busy with, for Mr. Bucket brought it to me when it was done and read it in a whisper. It was very accurate indeed.
巴克特先生叫来了第三个穿制服的人，他低声向他发出了指示，然后他就出去了。然后另外两人一起提出建议，其中一人根据巴克特先生柔和的口授进行写作。他们正在忙着写我母亲的故事，写完后巴克特先生把它拿给我，并低声读了一遍。确实非常准确。

The second officer, who had attended to it closely, then copied it out and called in another man in uniform (there were several in an outer room), who took it up and went away with it. All this was done with the greatest dispatch and without the waste of a moment; yet nobody was at all hurried. As soon as the paper was sent out upon its travels, the two officers resumed their former quiet work of writing with neatness and care. Mr. Bucket thoughtfully came and warmed the soles of his boots, first one and then the other, at the fire.
二副密切关注着它，然后把它抄下来，叫来另一个穿制服的人（外面的房间里有几个人），他拿起它就走了。所有这一切都以最快的速度完成，没有浪费任何时间。但没有人着急。报纸一发出去，两位军官就又恢复了以前安静的写作工作，工整而细心。巴克特先生若有所思地走过来，在火边暖了他的靴底，先一只，然后另一只。

‘Are you well wrapped up, Miss Summerson?’ he asked me as his eyes met mine. ‘It’s a desperate sharp night for a young lady to be out in.’
“萨默森小姐，你穿得好吗？”当他的目光与我相遇时，他问我。 “对于一位年轻女士来说，这是一个令人绝望的寒冷夜晚。”

I told him I cared for no weather and was warmly clothed.
我告诉他我不在乎天气，而且穿得暖和。

‘It may be a long job,’ he observed; ‘but so that it ends well, never mind, miss.’
“这可能是一项漫长的工作，”他评论道。 “不过为了结局好，没关系，小姐。”

‘I pray to heaven it may end well!’ said I.
“我向上帝祈祷，一切都会有好结果！”我说道。

He nodded comfortingly. ‘You see, whatever you do, don’t you go and fret yourself. You keep yourself cool and equal for anything that may happen, and it’ll be the better for you, the better for me, the better for Lady Dedlock, and the better for Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet.’
他安慰地点点头。 ‘你看，无论你做什么，都不要让自己烦恼。你保持冷静，对可能发生的任何事情保持平等，这对你、对我、对戴德洛克夫人、对莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士、从男爵来说都更好。

He was really very kind and gentle, and as he stood before the fire warming his boots and rubbing his face with his forefinger, I felt a confidence in his sagacity which reassured me. It was not yet a quarter to two when I heard horses’ feet and wheels outside. ‘Now, Miss Summerson,’ said he, ‘we are off, if you please!’
他真的非常善良和温柔，当他站在火前加热靴子并用食指揉搓脸时，我对他的睿智充满了信心，这让我放心了。还不到两点一刻，我听到外面有马蹄声和车轮声。 “现在，萨默森小姐，”他说，“如果您愿意的话，我们就出发吧！”

He gave me his arm, and the two officers courteously bowed me out, and we found at the door a phaeton or barouche with a postilion and post horses. Mr. Bucket handed me in and took his own seat on the box. The man in uniform whom he had sent to fetch this equipage then handed him up a dark lantern at his request, and when he had given a few directions to the driver, we rattled away.
他伸出手臂，两名军官礼貌地把我送出去，我们在门口发现了一辆四轮马车，上面有一辆马车和马匹。巴克特先生把我交给了包厢，并在包厢里坐了下来。他派去取这辆装备的穿制服的人应他的要求递给他一盏黑灯笼，当他给司机指了几个方向后，我们就匆匆离开了。

I was far from sure that I was not in a dream. We rattled with great rapidity through such a labyrinth of streets that I soon lost all idea where we were, except that we had crossed and re-crossed the river, and still seemed to be traversing a low-lying, waterside, dense neighbourhood of narrow thoroughfares chequered by docks and basins, high piles of warehouses, swing-bridges, and masts of ships. At length we stopped at the corner of a little slimy turning, which the wind from the river, rushing up it, did not purify; and I saw my companion, by the light of his lantern, in conference with several men who looked like a mixture of police and sailors. Against the mouldering wall by which they stood, there was a bill, on which I could discern the words, ‘Found Drowned”; and this and an inscription about drags possessed me with the awful suspicion shadowed forth in our visit to that place.
我非常不确定自己是不是在梦中。我们以极快的速度穿过迷宫般的街道，很快我就完全不知道我们在哪里了，只知道我们已经过了一遍又一遍地过河，而且似乎仍在穿过一个低洼、水边、狭窄的密集社区。大道上布满了码头和盆地、高高堆起的仓库、平转桥和船桅。最后，我们停在一个小泥泞的拐角处，河风从河上吹来，并没有净化它。我借着灯笼的光看到我的同伴正在和几个看上去像是警察和水手的人开会。他们站立的那堵腐烂的墙上有一张钞票，我可以辨认出上面写着“被发现淹死了”；这件事和关于变装的铭文让我产生了我们访问那个地方时所笼罩的可怕怀疑。

I had no need to remind myself that I was not there by the indulgence of any feeling of mine to increase the difficulties of the search, or to lessen its hopes, or enhance its delays. I remained quiet, but what I suffered in that dreadful spot I never can forget. And still it was like the horror of a dream. A man yet dark and muddy, in long swollen sodden boots and a hat like them, was called out of a boat and whispered with Mr. Bucket, who went away with him down some slippery steps—as if to look at something secret that he had to show. They came back, wiping their hands upon their coats, after turning over something wet; but thank God it was not what I feared!
我不需要提醒自己，我的存在并不是因为放纵自己的任何感情而增加搜寻的难度，或者减少搜寻的希望，或者增加搜寻的延误。我保持沉默，但我永远无法忘记在那个可怕的地方所遭受的痛苦。但这仍然像一场梦一样的恐怖。一个皮肤黝黑、浑身泥泞的男人，穿着肿胀的湿漉漉的长靴，戴着一顶像他们一样的帽子，被从船上叫了出来，和巴克特先生低声交谈，巴克特先生跟着他走下了一些湿滑的台阶——好像要看看他所知道的秘密。必须展示。他们回来时，把湿漉漉的东西翻过来，然后在外套上擦手。但感谢上帝，这并不是我所担心的！

After some further conference, Mr. Bucket (whom everybody seemed to know and defer to) went in with the others at a door and left me in the carriage, while the driver walked up and down by his horses to warm himself. The tide was coming in, as I judged from the sound it made, and I could hear it break at the end of the alley with a little rush towards me. It never did so—and I thought it did so, hundreds of times, in what can have been at the most a quarter of an hour, and probably was less—but the thought shuddered through me that it would cast my mother at the horses’ feet.
经过一番进一步的会议后，巴克特先生（每个人似乎都认识并尊重他）和其他人一起从门口进去，把我留在马车上，而车夫则骑着马走来走去取暖。从潮水发出的声音判断，潮水即将涌来，我能听到潮水在小巷尽头破裂，有点冲向我。它从来没有这样做过——我以为它这样做了，数百次，最多只用了一刻钟，而且可能更短——但一想到它会把我母亲扔到马背上，我就不寒而栗。 ' 脚。

Mr. Bucket came out again, exhorting the others to be vigilant, darkened his lantern, and once more took his seat. ‘Don’t you be alarmed, Miss Summerson, on account of our coming down here,’ he said, turning to me. ‘I only want to have everything in train and to know that it is in train by looking after it myself. Get on, my lad!’
巴克特先生又出来了，叮嘱其他人要提高警惕，然后关上灯笼，再次坐下。 “萨默森小姐，我们来到这里，您不必担心，”他转向我说道。 “我只想把所有东西都准备好，并通过亲自照看来知道它们都在准备中。”加油，我的小伙子！

We appeared to retrace the way we had come. Not that I had taken note of any particular objects in my perturbed state of mind, but judging from the general character of the streets. We called at another office or station for a minute and crossed the river again. During the whole of this time, and during the whole search, my companion, wrapped up on the box, never relaxed in his vigilance a single moment; but when we crossed the bridge he seemed, if possible, to be more on the alert than before. He stood up to look over the parapet, he alighted and went back after a shadowy female figure that flitted past us, and he gazed into the profound black pit of water with a face that made my heart die within me. The river had a fearful look, so overcast and secret, creeping away so fast between the low flat lines of shore—so heavy with indistinct and awful shapes, both of substance and shadow; so death-like and mysterious. I have seen it many times since then, by sunlight and by moonlight, but never free from the impressions of that journey. In my memory the lights upon the bridge are always burning dim, the cutting wind is eddying round the homeless woman whom we pass, the monotonous wheels are whirling on, and the light of the carriagelamps reflected back looks palely in upon me—a face rising out of the dreaded water.
我们似乎又沿着来时的路走了回去。并不是说我在心烦意乱的状态下注意到了任何特定的物体，而是从街道的总体特征来判断。我们在另一个办公室或车站打了电话一分钟，然后再次过河。在这整个过程中，在整个搜寻过程中，我的同伴裹着箱子，一刻也没有放松警惕。但当我们过桥时，如果可能的话，他似乎比以前更加警惕。他站起身来，往栏杆外看去，他下了车，又跟着一个从我们身边掠过的模糊女人影走回来，他凝视着深​​邃的黑色水坑，那张脸让我的心在我心里死去。这条河看上去很可怕，阴沉而神秘，在低矮平坦的海岸线之间快速地蠕动——充满了模糊而可怕的形状，既有实体，也有阴影；如此死亡般且神秘。从那时起，我在阳光下和月光下多次看到它，但从未摆脱那次旅程的印象。在我的记忆中，桥上的灯光总是暗淡的，刺骨的风在我们经过的无家可归的女人周围旋转，单调的车轮在旋转，车灯反射回来的光苍白地看着我——一张脸升起从可怕的水中出来。

Clattering and clattering through the empty streets, we came at length from the pavement on to dark smooth roads and began to leave the houses behind us. After a while I recognized the familiar way to Saint Albans. At Barnet fresh horses were ready for us, and we changed and went on. It was very cold indeed, and the open country was white with snow, though none was falling then.
我们一路叮叮当当地穿过空荡荡的街道，终于从人行道上走上黑暗平坦的道路，开始把房子抛在身后。过了一会儿，我认出了通往圣奥尔本斯的熟悉道路。在巴尼特，新鲜的马匹已经为我们准备好了，我们换好衣服继续前行。天气确实很冷，空旷的田野被雪覆盖着，尽管当时没有下雪。

‘An old acquaintance of yours, this road, Miss Summerson,’ said Mr. Bucket cheerfully.
“萨默森小姐，这条路是你的老熟人，”巴克特先生高兴地说。

‘Yes,’ I returned. ‘Have you gathered any intelligence?’
“是的，”我回答道。 “你收集到情报了吗？”

‘None that can be quite depended on as yet,’ he answered, ‘but it’s early times as yet.’
“目前还不能完全可靠，”他回答道，“但现在还为时过早。”

He had gone into every late or early public-house where there was a light (they were not a few at that time, the road being then much frequented by drovers) and had got down to talk to the turnpikekeepers. I had heard him ordering drink, and chinking money, and making himself agreeable and merry everywhere; but whenever he took his seat upon the box again, his face resumed its watchful steady look, and he always said to the driver in the same business tone, ‘Get on, my lad!’
他走进每一个迟到或早到的有灯的酒馆（当时这样的酒馆不在少数，当时这条路上有很多牲畜贩子经常光顾），然后坐下来和收费公路管理员交谈。我曾听见他点酒、交钱，到处表现得和蔼可亲、快快乐乐。但每当他再次坐在包厢上时，他的脸上就会恢复警惕、稳定的表情，并且总是用同样的商务语气对司机说：“上车，小伙子！”

With all these stoppages, it was between five and six o’clock and we were yet a few miles short of Saint Albans when he came out of one of these houses and handed me in a cup of tea.
经历了所有这些停顿，时间已经是五点到六点了，距离圣奥尔本斯还有几英里，他从其中一栋房子里出来，递给我一杯茶。

‘Drink it, Miss Summerson, it’ll do you good. You’re beginning to get more yourself now, ain’t you?’
“喝了它，萨默森小姐，这对你有好处。”你现在开始变得更加自我了，不是吗？

I thanked him and said I hoped so.
我感谢他并说我希望如此。

‘You was what you may call stunned at first,’ he returned; ‘and Lord, no wonder! Don’t speak loud, my dear. It’s all right. She’s on ahead.’
“一开始你可能会被惊呆，”他回答道。 ‘主啊，这也不足为奇！别大声说话，亲爱的。没关系。她在前面。

I don’t know what joyful exclamation I made or was going to make, but he put up his finger and I stopped myself.
我不知道我发出或将要发出什么快乐的感叹，但他竖起了手指，我停了下来。

‘Passed through here on foot this evening about eight or nine. I heard of her first at the archway toll, over at Highgate, but couldn’t make quite sure. Traced her all along, on and off. Picked her up at one place, and dropped her at another; but she’s before us now, safe. Take hold of this cup and saucer, ostler. Now, if you wasn’t brought up to the butter trade, look out and see if you can catch half a crown in your t’other hand. One, two, three, and there you are! Now, my lad, try a gallop!’
‘今天晚上八九点左右步行经过这里。我第一次听说她是在海格特的拱门收费站，但不太确定。一直断断续续地追踪着她。在一个地方接她，又在另一个地方放下她；但她现在就在我们面前，安全了。拿着这个杯子和碟子，马夫。现在，如果你没有接触过黄油行业，请留意一下，看看你是否能用另一只手抓住半克朗。一、二、三，你就到了！现在，我的小伙子，尝试一下驰骋吧！

We were soon in Saint Albans and alighted a little before day, when I was just beginning to arrange and comprehend the occurrences of the night and really to believe that they were not a dream. Leaving the carriage at the posting-house and ordering fresh horses to be ready, my companion gave me his arm, and we went towards home.
我们很快就到了圣奥尔本斯，天亮之前就下了车，当时我刚刚开始整理和理解当晚发生的事情，并真正相信它们不是梦。把马车留在邮局，吩咐准备好新马，我的同伴挽着我的胳膊，我们就回家了。

‘As this is your regular abode, Miss Summerson, you see,’ he observed, ‘I should like to know whether you’ve been asked for by any stranger answering the description, or whether Mr. Jarndyce has. I don’t much expect it, but it might be.’
“因为这是你的常住处，萨默森小姐，你看，”他说道，“我想知道是否有任何陌生人向你询问过你的描述，或者贾迪斯先生是否有。我对此不太抱有希望，但也有可能。

As we ascended the hill, he looked about him with a sharp eye—the day was now breaking—and reminded me that I had come down it one night, as I had reason for remembering, with my little servant and poor Jo, whom he called Toughey.
当我们登上山坡时，他用锐利的眼睛环顾四周——现在天已经亮了——并提醒我，有一天晚上，我和我的小仆人和可怜的乔一起下了山，我有理由记得。叫托吉。

I wondered how he knew that.
我想知道他是怎么知道的。

‘When you passed a man upon the road, just yonder, you know,’ said Mr. Bucket.
“当你在路上超越一个人时，就在那边，你知道，”巴克特先生说。

Yes, I remembered that too, very well.
是的，我也记得，记得很清楚。

‘That was me,’ said Mr. Bucket.
“那就是我，”巴克特先生说。

Seeing my surprise, he went on, ‘I drove down in a gig that afternoon to look after that boy. You might have heard my wheels when you came out to look after him yourself, for I was aware of you and your little maid going up when I was walking the horse down. Making an inquiry or two about him in the town, I soon heard what company he was in and was coming among the brick-fields to look for him when I observed you bringing him home here.’
看到我的惊讶，他继续说道：“那天下午我开车去照顾那个男孩。当你亲自出来照顾他的时候，你可能已经听到了我的车轮声，因为当我牵着马下山的时候，我就知道你和你的小女仆正在上楼。我在镇上打听了一两次关于他的事，很快就听说了他在哪家公司，正要到砖地里去找他，这时我看到你把他带回家了。

‘Had he committed any crime?’ I asked.
“他犯了什么罪吗？”我问。

‘None was charged against him,’ said Mr. Bucket, coolly lifting off his hat, ‘but I suppose he wasn’t over-particular. No. What I wanted him for was in connexion with keeping this very matter of Lady Dedlock quiet. He had been making his tongue more free than welcome as to a small accidental service he had been paid for by the deceased Mr. Tulkinghorn; and it wouldn’t do, at any sort of price, to have him playing those games. So having warned him out of London, I made an afternoon of it to warn him to keep out of it now he WAS away, and go farther from it, and maintain a bright look-out that I didn’t catch him coming back again.’
“没有人对他提出指控，”巴克特先生冷静地摘下帽子说道，“但我想他并没有过于挑剔。不，我要他的目的是为了让戴德洛克夫人的事情保密。对于已故的图尔金霍恩先生付钱给他的一项小小的意外服务，他一直表现得很自由，而不是受欢迎；不管付出什么代价，让他玩这些游戏都是行不通的。因此，在警告他离开伦敦之后，我花了一个下午的时间来警告他，现在他已经离开了，远离伦敦，并保持警惕，以免我发现他再次回来。 .'

‘Poor creature!’ said I.
“可怜的家伙！”我说道。

‘Poor enough,’ assented Mr. Bucket, ‘and trouble enough, and well enough away from London, or anywhere else. I was regularly turned on my back when I found him taken up by your establishment, I do assure you.
“够穷的，”巴克特先生表示同意，“也够麻烦的，而且远离伦敦或其他地方也够好了。”我向你保证，当我发现他被你的机构占用时，我经常感到不高兴。

I asked him why. ‘Why, my dear?’ said Mr. Bucket. ‘Naturally there was no end to his tongue then. He might as well have been born with a yard and a half of it, and a remnant over.’
我问他为什么。 “为什么，亲爱的？”巴克特先生说。 “当然，那时他的舌头就没有尽头。他可能生来就有一码半的长度，还有剩下的部分。

Although I remember this conversation now, my head was in confusion at the time, and my power of attention hardly did more than enable me to understand that he entered into these particulars to divert me. With the same kind intention, manifestly, he often spoke to me of indifferent things, while his face was busy with the one object that we had in view. He still pursued this subject as we turned in at the garden-gate.
虽然我现在还记得这次谈话，但当时我的头脑很混乱，我的注意力只能让我明白他进入这些细节是为了转移我的注意力。显然，出于同样的善意，他经常对我谈论无关紧要的事情，而他的脸却忙于我们所关注的唯一目标。当我们在花园门口拐进去时，他仍在继续这个话题。

‘Ah!’ said Mr. Bucket. ‘Here we are, and a nice retired place it is. Puts a man in mind of the country house in the Woodpeckertapping, that was known by the smoke which so gracefully curled. They’re early with the kitchen fire, and that denotes good servants. But what you’ve always got to be careful of with servants is who comes to see ‘em; you never know what they’re up to if you don’t know that. And another thing, my dear. Whenever you find a young man behind the kitchen-door, you give that young man in charge on suspicion of being secreted in a dwelling-house with an unlawful purpose.’
“啊！”巴克特先生说。 “我们在这里，这是一个不错的退休之地。让人想起啄木鸟啄木场的乡间别墅，那是因为那优美的袅袅烟雾而闻名。他们很早就生了厨房的火，这表明他们是好仆人。但对待仆人，你始终要小心的是谁来看望他们；如果你不知道，你永远不知道他们在做什么。还有一件事，亲爱的。每当你发现厨房门后面有一个年轻人时，你就会因为涉嫌出于非法目的而被秘密藏在住宅中而让该年轻人负责。

We were now in front of the house; he looked attentively and closely at the gravel for footprints before he raised his eyes to the windows.
我们现在已经到了房子前面。他仔细地、仔细地观察砾石上是否有脚印，然后抬起眼睛看向窗户。

‘Do you generally put that elderly young gentleman in the same room when he’s on a visit here, Miss Summerson?’ he inquired, glancing at Mr. Skimpole’s usual chamber.
“萨默森小姐，当这位年长的年轻绅士来访时，你通常会把他安排在同一个房间里吗？”他问道，扫了一眼斯基姆波尔先生常用的房间。

‘You know Mr. Skimpole!’ said I.
“你认识斯金波尔先生！”我说。

‘What do you call him again?’ returned Mr. Bucket, bending down his ear. ‘Skimpole, is it? I’ve often wondered what his name might be. Skimpole. Not John, I should say, nor yet Jacob?’
“你又叫他什么？”巴克特先生弯下耳朵问道。 “斯金波尔，是吗？我经常想知道他叫什么名字。斯金波尔。我应该说，不是约翰，也不是雅各布？

‘Harold,’ I told him.
“哈罗德，”我告诉他。

‘Harold. Yes. He’s a queer bird is Harold,’ said Mr. Bucket, eyeing me with great expression.
‘哈罗德。是的。 “哈罗德，他真是个奇怪的人。”巴克特先生说道，表情很灿烂地看着我。

‘He is a singular character,’ said I.
“他是一个独特的人物，”我说。

‘No idea of money,’ observed Mr. Bucket. ‘He takes it, though!’
“对钱一无所知，”巴克特先生说。 “不过他接受了！”

I involuntarily returned for answer that I perceived Mr. Bucket knew him.
我不由自主地回过头来寻求答案，因为我发现巴克特先生认识他。

‘Why, now I’ll tell you, Miss Summerson,’ he replied. ‘Your mind will be all the better for not running on one point too continually, and I’ll tell you for a change. It was him as pointed out to me where Toughey was. I made up my mind that night to come to the door and ask for Toughey, if that was all; but willing to try a move or so first, if any such was on the board, I just pitched up a morsel of gravel at that window where I saw a shadow. As soon as Harold opens it and I have had a look at him, thinks I, you’re the man for me. So I smoothed him down a bit about not wanting to disturb the family after they was gone to bed and about its being a thing to be regretted that charitable young ladies should harbour vagrants; and then, when I pretty well understood his ways, I said I should consider a fypunnote well bestowed if I could relieve the premises of Toughey without causing any noise or trouble. Then says he, lifting up his eyebrows in the gayest way, ‘It’s no use menfioning a fypunnote to me, my friend, because I’m a mere child in such matters and have no idea of money.’ Of course I understood what his taking it so easy meant; and being now quite sure he was the man for me, I wrapped the note round a little stone and threw it up to him. Well! He laughs and beams, and looks as innocent as you like, and says, ‘But I don’t know the value of these things. What am I to DO with this?’ ‘Spend it, sir,’ says I. ‘But I shall be taken in,’ he says, ‘they won’t give me the right change, I shall lose it, it’s no use to me.’ Lord, you never saw such a face as he carried it with! Of course he told me where to find Toughey, and I found him.’
“为什么，现在我告诉你，萨默森小姐，”他回答道。 ‘你的头脑不要太持续地在某一点上运转会更好，我会告诉你改变一下。正是他向我指出了图伊所在的位置。那天晚上我决定去门口找托伊，如果仅此而已的话。但如果棋盘上有这样的棋子的话，我愿意先尝试一下，所以我只是在我看到影子的那个窗户上扔了一点砾石。哈罗德一打开门，我看了他一眼，我想，你就是我的理想人选。于是我安抚了他，说不想在家人睡觉后打扰他们，而且慈善的小姐窝藏流浪汉是一件令人遗憾的事情；然后，当我非常了解他的方式时，我说如果我能在不引起任何噪音或麻烦的情况下缓解托伊的房屋，我应该考虑给予fypunnote很好的奖励。然后他用一种最快乐的方式扬起了眉毛，说道：“我的朋友，对我提一句fypunnote是没有用的，因为在这种事情上我只是个孩子，对金钱一无所知。”当然，我明白他的意思。采取如此简单的意思是；现在我确信他就是我的理想人选，于是我把纸条包在一块小石头上，扔给了他。出色地！他笑起来，笑容满面，看起来很天真，然后说：“但我不知道这些东西的价值。”我该怎么处理这个？”“花掉它，先生，”我说。“但我会被骗，”他说，“他们不会给我正确的零钱，我会失去它，这是没有用的主啊，你从来没有见过他这样的脸！当然，他告诉我在哪里可以找到托伊，然后我就找到了他。”

I regarded this as very treacherous on the part of Mr. Skimpole towards my guardian and as passing the usual bounds of his childish innocence.
我认为斯金波尔先生对我的监护人的行为非常奸诈，超出了他孩子气的纯真通常的界限。

‘Bounds, my dear?’ returned Mr. Bucket. ‘Bounds? Now, Miss Summerson, I’ll give you a piece of advice that your husband will find useful when you are happily married and have got a family about you. Whenever a person says to you that they are as innocent as can be in all concerning money, look well after your own money, for they are dead certain to collar it if they can. Whenever a person proclaims to you ‘In worldly matters I’m a child,’ you consider that that person is only a-crying off from being held accountable and that you have got that person’s number, and it’s Number One. Now, I am not a poetical man myself, except in a vocal way when it goes round a company, but I’m a practical one, and that’s my experience. So’s this rule. Fast and loose in one thing, fast and loose in everything. I never knew it fail. No more will you. Nor no one. With which caution to the unwary, my dear, I take the liberty of pulling this here bell, and so go back to our business.’
“界限，亲爱的？”巴克特先生回答道。 ‘界限？现在，萨默森小姐，我给你一条建议，当你婚姻幸福并组建家庭时，你的丈夫会发现这些建议很有用。每当一个人对你说他们在金钱方面是天真无邪的时候，请好好保管好你自己的钱，因为如果可以的话，他们肯定会抓住它。每当有人向你宣称“在世俗问题上我还是个孩子”时，你就会认为那个人只是在哭泣，逃避追究责任，而你已经得到了那个人的号码，而且是第一号。现在，我自己并不是一个富有诗意的人，除非在公司里以一种声音的方式传播，但我是一个务实的人，这就是我的经验。这条规则也是如此。在一件事上快速而宽松，在所有事情上都快速而宽松。我从来不知道它会失败。你不会再这样了。也没有人。亲爱的，出于对粗心者的谨慎，我冒昧地拉响了这里的铃，然后回到我们的正事上来。

I believe it had not been for a moment out of his mind, any more than it had been out of my mind, or out of his face. The whole household were amazed to see me, without any notice, at that time in the morning, and so accompanied; and their surprise was not diminished by my inquiries. No one, however, had been there. It could not be doubted that this was the truth.
我相信他一刻也没有想到这一点，就像我的脑海中或他的脸上从来没有出现过一样。早上的那个时候，全家人都惊讶地看到我，没有任何通知，并陪着我。我的询问并没有减少他们的惊讶。然而，没有人在那里。毫无疑问，这是事实。

‘Then, Miss Summerson,’ said my companion, ‘we can’t be too soon at the cottage where those brickmakers are to be found. Most inquiries there I leave to you, if you’ll be so good as to make ‘em. The naturalest way is the best way, and the naturalest way is your own way.’
“那么，萨默森小姐，”我的同伴说，“我们不能太早到达那些制砖匠所在的小屋。如果你愿意的话，我会把大部分询问留给你。最自然的方式就是最好的方式，最自然的方式就是你自己的方式。

We set off again immediately. On arriving at the cottage, we found it shut up and apparently deserted, but one of the neighbours who knew me and who came out when I was trying to make some one hear informed me that the two women and their husbands now lived together in another house, made of loose rough bricks, which stood on the margin of the piece of ground where the kilns were and where the long rows of bricks were drying. We lost no time in repairing to this place, which was within a few hundred yards; and as the door stood ajar, I pushed it open.
我们立即再次出发。到达小屋后，我们发现它关闭了，显然已经荒废了，但是一位认识我的邻居在我试图让别人听到的时候出来告诉我，这两个女人和他们的丈夫现在一起住在另一间房子里。房子是用松散的粗糙砖砌成的，坐落在窑炉所在的那块土地的边缘，长排的砖块正在那里晾晒。我们不失时机地赶到了这个地方，距离这里只有几百码。当门半开时，我把门推开了。

There were only three of them sitting at breakfast, the child lying asleep on a bed in the corner. It was Jenny, the mother of the dead child, who was absent. The other woman rose on seeing me; and the men, though they were, as usual, sulky and silent, each gave me a morose nod of recognition. A look passed between them when Mr. Bucket followed me in, and I was surprised to see that the woman evidently knew him.
早餐时只有三个人坐在一起，孩子躺在角落的床上睡着了。失踪的是死去孩子的母亲珍妮。另一个女人看到我就站了起来。这些人虽然像往常一样闷闷不乐、沉默不语，但每个人都阴郁地点点头表示认可。当巴克特先生跟着我进去时，他们互相看了一眼，我惊讶地发现那个女人显然认识他。

I had asked leave to enter of course. Liz (the only name by which I knew her) rose to give me her own chair, but I sat down on a stool near the fire, and Mr. Bucket took a corner of the bedstead. Now that I had to speak and was among people with whom I was not familiar, I became conscious of being hurried and giddy. It was very difficult to begin, and I could not help bursting into tears.
当然，我已经请假进入。莉兹（我认识她的唯一名字）起身把她自己的椅子让给我，但我坐在火边的凳子上，巴克特先生占据了床架的一角。现在我必须说话，而且是在一个我不熟悉的人中间，我开始意识到自己的匆忙和头晕。开始的时候非常困难，我忍不住流下了眼泪。

‘Liz,’ said I, ‘I have come a long way in the night and through the snow to inquire after a lady—‘
“莉兹，”我说道，“我冒着大雪，在夜色中走了很长一段路，来探望一位女士——”

‘Who has been here, you know,’ Mr. Bucket struck in, addressing the whole group with a composed propitiatory face; ‘that’s the lady the young lady means. The lady that was here last night, you know.’
“你们知道，谁来过这里。”巴克特先生插话道，脸上带着平静的安抚表情，对大家说道。 ‘这就是那位小姐所说的那位女士。你知道，昨晚在这里的那位女士。

‘And who told YOU as there was anybody here?’ inquired Jenny’s husband, who had made a surly stop in his eating to listen and now measured him with his eye.
“谁告诉你的，因为有人在这里？”珍妮的丈夫问道，他在吃饭时乖乖地停下来听，现在用眼睛打量着他。

‘A person of the name of Michael Jackson, with a blue welveteen waistcoat with a double row of mother of pearl buttons,’ Mr. Bucket immediately answered.
“一个名叫迈克尔·杰克逊的人，穿着一件蓝色的十二绒背心，上面有两排珍珠母纽扣。”巴克特先生立即回答道。

‘He had as good mind his own business, whoever he is,’ growled the man.
“不管他是谁，他都对自己的事很在意，”那人咆哮道。

‘He’s out of employment, I believe,’ said Mr. Bucket apologetically for Michael Jackson, ‘and so gets talking.’
“我相信他失业了，”巴克特先生为迈克尔·杰克逊道歉，“所以才开始谈论。”

The woman had not resumed her chair, but stood faltering with her hand upon its broken back, looking at me. I thought she would have spoken to me privately if she had dared. She was still in this attitude of uncertainty when her husband, who was eating with a lump of bread and fat in one hand and his clasp-knife in the other, struck the handle of his knife violently on the table and told her with an oath to mind HER own business at any rate and sit down.
那个女人没有坐回椅子上，而是摇摇晃晃地站着，把手放在断掉的椅背上，看着我。我想如果她敢的话，她会私下跟我说话。当她还处于这种不确定的态度时，她的丈夫一手拿着一块面包和脂肪，另一只手拿着折叠刀，用刀柄猛烈地敲击着桌子，并发誓地告诉她。无论如何，先别管她自己的事，坐下吧。

‘I should like to have seen Jenny very much,’ said I, ‘for I am sure she would have told me all she could about this lady, whom I am very anxious indeed—you cannot think how anxious—to overtake. Will Jenny be here soon? Where is she?’
“我非常想见到珍妮，”我说，“因为我确信她会告诉我关于这位女士的一切，我确实非常渴望——你无法想象有多渴望——超越她。珍妮很快就会来吗？她在哪？'

The woman had a great desire to answer, but the man, with another oath, openly kicked at her foot with his heavy boot. He left it to Jenny’s husband to say what he chose, and after a dogged silence the latter turned his shaggy head towards me.
女人很想回答，男人却又发誓，用沉重的靴子公然踢她的脚。他让珍妮的丈夫说出他的选择，在一阵顽强的沉默之后，后者把蓬乱的头转向我。

‘I’m not partial to gentlefolks coming into my place, as you’ve heerd me say afore now, I think, miss. I let their places be, and it’s curious they can’t let my place be. There’d be a pretty shine made if I was to go a-wisitin THEM, I think. Howsoever, I don’t so much complain of you as of some others, and I’m agreeable to make you a civil answer, though I give notice that I’m not a-going to be drawed like a badger. Will Jenny be here soon? No she won’t. Where is she? She’s gone up to Lunnun.’
“我不偏爱绅士来到我的地方，正如你之前听到我说的那样，我想，小姐。我让他们占地方，奇怪的是他们却不能让我占地方。我想，如果我去拜访他们，那一定会很光彩夺目。然而，我并没有像其他人那样抱怨你，我很乐意给你一个文明的答复，尽管我注意到我不会像獾一样被吸引。珍妮很快就会来吗？不，她不会。她在哪？她去了伦努。

‘Did she go last night?’ I asked.
“她昨晚去了吗？”我问。

‘Did she go last night? Ah! She went last night,’ he answered with a sulky jerk of his head.
‘她昨晚去了吗？啊!她昨晚就去了。”他闷闷不乐地摇摇头回答道。

‘But was she here when the lady came? And what did the lady say to her? And where is the lady gone? I beg and pray you to be so kind as to tell me,’ said I, ‘for I am in great distress to know.’
“但是那位女士来的时候她在吗？”那那位女士对她说了什么？而这位女士又去哪儿了呢？我恳求并祈祷你能好心告诉我，”我说，“因为知道这一点我感到非常痛苦。”

‘If my master would let me speak, and not say a word of harm—‘ the woman timidly began.
“如果我的主人允许我说话，并且不说一句伤害的话——”女人胆怯地开始说道。

‘Your master,’ said her husband, muttering an imprecation with slow emphasis, ‘will break your neck if you meddle with wot don’t concern you.’
“你的主人，”她的丈夫低声咒骂着，语气缓慢地加重了语气，“如果你多管闲事，他会扭断你的脖子的。”

After another silence, the husband of the absent woman, turning to me again, answered me with his usual grumbling unwillingness.
又一阵沉默后，缺席的女人的丈夫再次转向我，用他一贯的抱怨不情愿的方式回答我。

‘Wos Jenny here when the lady come? Yes, she wos here when the lady come. Wot did the lady say to her? Well, I’ll tell you wot the lady said to her. She said, ‘You remember me as come one time to talk to you about the young lady as had been a-wisiting of you? You remember me as give you somethink handsome for a handkercher wot she had left?’ Ah, she remembered. So we all did. Well, then, wos that young lady up at the house now? No, she warn’t up at the house now. Well, then, lookee here. The lady was upon a journey all alone, strange as we might think it, and could she rest herself where you’re a setten for a hour or so. Yes she could, and so she did. Then she went—it might be at twenty minutes past eleven, and it might be at twenty minutes past twelve; we ain’t got no watches here to know the time by, nor yet clocks. Where did she go? I don’t know where she go’d. She went one way, and Jenny went another; one went right to Lunnun, and t’other went right from it. That’s all about it. Ask this man. He heerd it all, and see it all. He knows.’
“那位女士来的时候，珍妮在吗？”是的，那位女士来时她就在这里。那位女士对她说了什么？好吧，我来告诉你那位女士对她说的话。她说：“你还记得我有一次来和你谈论那位一直在想念你的年轻女士吗？”你还记得我给了你一些漂亮的东西作为她留下的手帕吗？’啊，她想起来了。所以我们都这么做了。那么，那位年轻女士现在在家里吗？不，她现在不在家里。那么，看这里。这位女士独自踏上旅程，虽然我们可能会觉得很奇怪，但她能否在你所在的地方休息一个小时左右。是的，她可以，而且她也这么做了。然后她就走了——可能是十一点二十分，也可能是十二点二十分；我们这里没有可以知道时间的手表，也没有时钟。她去哪儿了？我不知道她去了哪里。她走一条路，珍妮走另一条路。一个直接前往伦农，另一个则直接从那里出发。仅此而已。问这个人。他听到了这一切，也看到了这一切。他知道。'

The other man repeated, ‘That’s all about it.’
另一个人重复道：“仅此而已。”

‘Was the lady crying?’ I inquired.
“那位女士在哭吗？”我问道。

‘Devil a bit,’ returned the first man. ‘Her shoes was the worse, and her clothes was the worse, but she warn’t—not as I see.’
“有点魔鬼，”第一个人回答道。 “她的鞋子更糟糕，她的衣服更糟糕，但她没有——不像我所看到的那样。”

The woman sat with her arms crossed and her eyes upon the ground. Her husband had turned his seat a little so as to face her and kept his hammer-like hand upon the table as if it were in readiness to execute his threat if she disobeyed him.
女人交叉双臂坐着，眼睛看着地面。她的丈夫稍微转动了座位，面向她，并将锤子般的手放在桌子上，仿佛准备好在她不服从他的情况下执行他的威胁。

‘I hope you will not object to my asking your wife,’ said I, ‘how the lady looked.’
“我希望你不会反对我问你的妻子，”我说，“这位女士看起来怎么样。”

‘Come, then!’ he gruffly cried to her. ‘You hear what she says. Cut it short and tell her.’
“那么，来吧！”他粗声粗气地对她喊道。 ‘你听她说的话。话不多说，告诉她。”

‘Bad,’ replied the woman. ‘Pale and exhausted. Very bad.’
“不好。”女人回答道。 ‘脸色苍白，疲惫不堪。很坏。'

‘Did she speak much?’
“她话多吗？”

‘Not much, but her voice was hoarse.’
“不多，但她的声音很沙哑。”

She answered, looking all the while at her husband for leave.
她一边回答，一边一直看着丈夫请假。

‘Was she faint?’ said I. ‘Did she eat or drink here?’
“她晕倒了吗？”我问，“她在这里吃过喝过吗？”

‘Go on!’ said the husband in answer to her look. ‘Tell her and cut it short.’
“继续吧！”丈夫回应她的目光说道。 “告诉她，别再说了。”

‘She had a little water, miss, and Jenny fetched her some bread and tea. But she hardly touched it.’
“她有一点水，小姐，珍妮给她拿了一些面包和茶。但她几乎没碰过它。

‘And when she went from here,’ I was proceeding, when Jenny’s husband impatiently took me up.
“当她离开这里时，”我正说着，珍妮的丈夫不耐烦地把我抱起来。

‘When she went from here, she went right away nor’ard by the high road. Ask on the road if you doubt me, and see if it warn’t so. Now, there’s the end. That’s all about it.’
‘当她离开这里时，她立刻就沿着大路往北走。如果你怀疑我，就在路上问问，看看是否如此。现在，结束了。仅此而已。

I glanced at my companion, and finding that he had already risen and was ready to depart, thanked them for what they had told me, and took my leave. The woman looked full at Mr. Bucket as he went out, and he looked full at her.
我看了一眼我的同伴，发现他已经起身准备离开，我向他们的吩咐道谢后就告辞了。当巴克特先生走出去时，那个女人注视着他，而他也注视着她。

‘Now, Miss Summerson,’ he said to me as we walked quickly away. ‘They’ve got her ladyship’s watch among ‘em. That’s a positive fact.’
“现在，萨默森小姐，”当我们快步走开时，他对我说。 “他们中间有她夫人的手表。”这是一个积极的事实。

‘You saw it?’ I exclaimed.
“你看到了吗？”我惊呼道。

‘Just as good as saw it,’ he returned. ‘Else why should he talk about his ‘twenty minutes past’ and about his having no watch to tell the time by? Twenty minutes! He don’t usually cut his time so fine as that. If he comes to half-hours, it’s as much as HE does. Now, you see, either her ladyship gave him that watch or he took it. I think she gave it him. Now, what should she give it him for? What should she give it him for?’
“和看到的一样好，”他回答道。 “否则他为什么要谈论他的‘过去二十分钟’以及他没有手表来判断时间呢？” 20分钟！他通常不会把时间安排得这么好。如果他能上半小时，那就和他一样多了。现在，你看，要么是她的夫人给了他那块手表，要么是他拿走了它。我想她给了他。现在，她该给他做什么？她应该把它给他做什么？

He repeated this question to himself several times as we hurried on, appearing to balance between a variety of answers that arose in his mind.
当我们匆忙前行时，他对自己重复了这个问题好几次，似乎在他脑海中出现的各种答案之间取得了平衡。

‘If time could be spared,’ said Mr. Bucket, ‘which is the only thing that can’t be spared in this case, I might get it out of that woman; but it’s too doubtful a chance to trust to under present circumstances. They are up to keeping a close eye upon her, and any fool knows that a poor creetur like her, beaten and kicked and scarred and bruised from head to foot, will stand by the husband that ill uses her through thick and thin. There’s something kept back. It’s a pity but what we had seen the other woman.’
“如果可以节省时间，”巴克特先生说，“在这种情况下，这是唯一不能节省的东西，我可能会从那个女人那里得到它;但在目前的情况下，这是一个值得信赖的机会。他们会密切注视着她，任何傻瓜都知道，像她这样一个可怜的怪物，从头到脚被殴打、踢伤、伤痕累累，都会站在那个虐待她的丈夫身边。有一些东西被保留了。很遗憾，我们看到了另一个女人。”

I regretted it exceedingly, for she was very grateful, and I felt sure would have resisted no entreaty of mine.
我非常后悔，因为她非常感激，我确信她不会拒绝我的恳求。

‘It’s possible, Miss Summerson,’ said Mr. Bucket, pondering on it, ‘that her ladyship sent her up to London with some word for you, and it’s possible that her husband got the watch to let her go. It don’t come out altogether so plain as to please me, but it’s on the cards. Now, I don’t take kindly to laying out the money of Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, on these roughs, and I don’t see my way to the usefulness of it at present. No! So far our road, Miss Summerson, is for’ard—straight ahead—and keeping everything quiet!’
“有可能，萨默森小姐，”巴克特先生沉思着说道，“可能是夫人派她去伦敦转告你的，也有可能是她丈夫拿到了表让她走的。”虽然结果并没有让我满意，但这是有可能的。现在，我不乐意把莱斯特·戴德洛克男爵爵士的钱花在这些毛坯上，而且目前我看不出它有什么用处。不！萨默森小姐，到目前为止，我们的路是向前——一直向前——并保持一切安静！

We called at home once more that I might send a hasty note to my guardian, and then we hurried back to where we had left the carriage. The horses were brought out as soon as we were seen coming, and we were on the road again in a few minutes.
我们再次打电话到家里，让我赶紧给我的监护人写个便条，然后我们就匆匆回到了下马车的地方。一看到我们来了，马匹就被牵了出来，几分钟后我们又上路了。

It had set in snowing at daybreak, and it now snowed hard. The air was so thick with the darkness of the day and the density of the fall that we could see but a very little way in any direction. Although it was extremely cold, the snow was but partially frozen, and it churned—with a sound as if it were a beach of small shells —under the hoofs of the horses into mire and water. They sometimes slipped and floundered for a mile together, and we were obliged to come to a standstill to rest them. One horse fell three times in this first stage, and trembled so and was so shaken that the driver had to dismount from his saddle and lead him at last.
天一亮就下雪了，现在雪下得很大。由于白天的黑暗和瀑布的密度，空气变得如此浓重，以至于我们在任何方向都只能看到很小的距离。虽然天气极其寒冷，但雪只部分结冰，在马蹄下翻滚，发出如同沙滩上的小贝壳般的声音，化为泥沼和水中。有时他们会滑倒，一起挣扎一英里，我们不得不停下来让他们休息。第一赛段有一匹马摔了三下，颤抖得厉害，赶车的人最后不得不下马牵着他。

I could eat nothing and could not sleep, and I grew so nervous under those delays and the slow pace at which we travelled that I had an unreasonable desire upon me to get out and walk. Yielding to my companion’s better sense, however, I remained where I was. All this time, kept fresh by a certain enjoyment of the work in which he was engaged, he was up and down at every house we came to, addressing people whom he had never beheld before as old acquaintances, running in to warm himself at every fire he saw, talking and drinking and shaking hands at every bar and tap, friendly with every waggoner, wheelwright, blacksmith, and tolltaker, yet never seeming to lose time, and always mounting to the box again with his watchful, steady face and his business-like ‘Get on, my lad!’
我什么也吃不了，也睡不着，而且在这些延误和缓慢的行进速度下，我变得非常紧张，以至于我有一种不合理的愿望想要出去散步。然而，我屈服于同伴的理智，还是留在了原地。一直以来，他都对自己所从事的工作保持着某种新鲜感，在我们来到的每一所房子里走来走去，把以前从未见过的人当作老熟人，每次都跑进去取暖。他看到火，在每个酒吧和水龙头前聊天、喝酒、握手，与每一个车夫、车匠、铁匠和收费员都很友好，但似乎从不浪费时间，总是以警惕、稳定的表情和他的眼神再次登上包厢。公事公办的“加油，小伙子！”

When we were changing horses the next time, he came from the stable-yard, with the wet snow encrusted upon him and dropping off him—plashing and crashing through it to his wet knees as he had been doing frequently since we left Saint Albans—and spoke to me at the carriage side.
当我们下次换马的时候，他从马厩院子里出来，湿漉漉的雪覆盖在他身上，从他身上掉下来——溅起雪花，砸到他湿漉漉的膝盖上，自从我们离开圣奥尔本斯以来，他经常这样做——在车厢边对我说话。

‘Keep up your spirits. It’s certainly true that she came on here, Miss Summerson. There’s not a doubt of the dress by this time, and the dress has been seen here.’
‘打起精神来。萨默森小姐，她确实来到了这里。这时候，这件衣服已经没有疑问了，而且这件衣服已经在这里被看到了。

‘Still on foot?’ said I.
“还在步行吗？”我说。

‘Still on foot. I think the gentleman you mentioned must be the point she’s aiming at, and yet I don’t like his living down in her own part of the country neither.’
'仍然步行。我想你提到的那位先生一定是她的目标，但我也不喜欢他住在她自己的地区。

‘I know so little,’ said I. ‘There may be some one else nearer here, of whom I never heard.’
“我知道的太少了，”我说，“附近可能还有其他人，但我从未听说过。”

‘That’s true. But whatever you do, don’t you fall a-crying, my dear; and don’t you worry yourself no more than you can help. Get on, my lad!’
'这是真的。但无论你做什么，亲爱的，你都不要哭；你不必担心自己无能为力。加油，我的小伙子！

The sleet fell all that day unceasingly, a thick mist came on early, and it never rose or lightened for a moment. Such roads I had never seen. I sometimes feared we had missed the way and got into the ploughed grounds or the marshes. If I ever thought of the time I had been out, it presented itself as an indefinite period of great duration, and I seemed, in a strange way, never to have been free from the anxiety under which I then laboured.
一整天雨夹雪一直下个不停，早起浓雾，一刻也没有升起或变亮。这样的路我从来没有见过。有时我担心我们迷了路，进入了犁过的土地或沼泽地。如果我回想一下我出去的那段时间，它本身就是一个无限期的漫长时期，而我似乎以一种奇怪的方式从未摆脱过我当时所承受的焦虑。

As we advanced, I began to feel misgivings that my companion lost confidence. He was the same as before with all the roadside people, but he looked graver when he sat by himself on the box. I saw his finger uneasily going across and across his mouth during the whole of one long weary stage. I overheard that he began to ask the drivers of coaches and other vehicles coming towards us what passengers they had seen in other coaches and vehicles that were in advance. Their replies did not encourage him. He always gave me a reassuring beck of his finger and lift of his eyelid as he got upon the box again, but he seemed perplexed now when he said, ‘Get on, my lad!’
随着我们的前进，我开始担心我的同伴失去了信心。他对路边的人还是一如既往，只是当他一个人坐在箱子上时，他的表情更加严肃了。在整个漫长而疲惫的舞台上，我看到他的手指不安地在他的嘴上划过又划过。我无意中听到他开始询问向我们驶来的长途汽车和其他车辆的司机，他们在提前到达的其他长途汽车和车辆上看到了哪些乘客。他们的回答并没有鼓励他。当他再次登上箱子时，他总是向我轻轻一挥手指，抬起眼睑，让我放心，但现在当他说“上车，我的小伙子！”时，他似乎很困惑。

At last, when we were changing, he told me that he had lost the track of the dress so long that he began to be surprised. It was nothing, he said, to lose such a track for one while, and to take it up for another while, and so on; but it had disappeared here in an unaccountable manner, and we had not come upon it since. This corroborated the apprehensions I had formed, when he began to look at direction-posts, and to leave the carriage at cross roads for a quarter of an hour at a time while he explored them. But I was not to be down-hearted, he told me, for it was as likely as not that the next stage might set us right again.
最后，当我们换衣服时，他告诉我，他已经忘记了衣服的踪迹，以至于他开始感到惊讶。他说，暂时失去这样的踪迹，然后又重新拾起它，等等，这并不算什么。但它莫名其妙地消失在这里，从那以后我们就再也没有遇到过它。这证实了我的担忧，当时他开始看方向标，并在他探索十字路口时每次将马车停在十字路口一刻钟。但我不应该灰心丧气，他告诉我，因为下一阶段很可能会让我们再次走上正轨。

The next stage, however, ended as that one ended; we had no new clue. There was a spacious inn here, solitary, but a comfortable substantial building, and as we drove in under a large gateway before I knew it, where a landlady and her pretty daughters came to the carriage-door, entreating me to alight and refresh myself while the horses were making ready, I thought it would be uncharitable to refuse. They took me upstairs to a warm room and left me there.
然而，下一阶段也像上一阶段一样结束了。我们没有新的线索。这里有一家宽敞的客栈，虽然孤零零，但却是一栋舒适而坚固的建筑，当我们从一个大门下驶入时，我不知不觉间，一位女房东和她漂亮的女儿们来到了马车门前，恳求我下车休息一下。当马匹准备就绪时，我认为拒绝是不仁慈的。他们把我带到楼上一个温暖的房间，然后把我留在那里。

It was at the corner of the house, I remember, looking two ways. On one side to a stable-yard open to a by-road, where the ostlers were unharnessing the splashed and tired horses from the muddy carriage, and beyond that to the by-road itself, across which the sign was heavily swinging; on the other side to a wood of dark pine-trees. Their branches were encumbered with snow, and it silently dropped off in wet heaps while I stood at the window. Night was setting in, and its bleakness was enhanced by the contrast of the pictured fire glowing and gleaming in the windowpane. As I looked among the stems of the trees and followed the discoloured marks in the snow where the thaw was sinking into it and undermining it, I thought of the motherly face brightly set off by daughters that had just now welcomed me and of MY mother lying down in such a wood to die.
我记得它在房子的拐角处，朝两个方向看。一侧是马厩院子，通向一条小路，马夫们正在那里从泥泞的马车上卸下浑身湿透、疲惫不堪的马匹，再往前，就是小路本身，路标在小路上沉重地晃动；另一边是一片漆黑的松树林。它们的树枝上沾满了积雪，当我站在窗前时，积雪无声无息地落下，湿漉漉的。夜色即将降临，窗玻璃上闪烁的火光的对比增强了夜色的凄凉。当我在树干间望去，顺着积雪中融化的变色痕迹看去时，我想起了刚刚欢迎我的女儿们衬托出的母亲般的脸庞，也想起了躺在床上的母亲。就死在这样的树林里。

I was frightened when I found them all about me, but I remembered that before I fainted I tried very hard not to do it; and that was some little comfort. They cushioned me up on a large sofa by the fire, and then the comely landlady told me that I must travel no further to-night, but must go to bed. But this put me into such a tremble lest they should detain me there that she soon recalled her words and compromised for a rest of half an hour.
当我发现它们就在我身边时，我很害怕，但我记得在我晕倒之前我非常努力地不这样做；这是一些小小的安慰。他们把我放在火炉旁的一张大沙发上，然后漂亮的女房东告诉我今晚不能再旅行了，但必须去睡觉。但这让我心里忐忑不安，生怕他们把我扣留在那里，她很快就回想起自己的话，妥协了，休息了半个小时。

A good endearing creature she was. She and her three fair girls, all so busy about me. I was to take hot soup and broiled fowl, while Mr. Bucket dried himself and dined elsewhere; but I could not do it when a snug round table was presently spread by the fireside, though I was very unwilling to disappoint them. However, I could take some toast and some hot negus, and as I really enjoyed that refreshment, it made some recompense.
她真是个可爱的人。她和她的三个漂亮女孩，都为我忙碌着。我要喝热汤和烤鸡，而巴克特先生擦干身体去别处吃饭。但当炉边已经摆好了一张舒适的圆桌时，我无法做到这一点，尽管我非常不愿意让他们失望。不过，我可以吃一些吐司和一些热尼古斯，而且因为我真的很喜欢这种茶点，所以它也算是一种补偿。

Punctual to the time, at the half-hour’s end the carriage came rumbling under the gateway, and they took me down, warmed, refreshed, comforted by kindness, and safe (I assured them) not to faint any more. After I had got in and had taken a grateful leave of them all, the youngest daughter—a blooming girl of nineteen, who was to be the first married, they had told me—got upon the carriage step, reached in, and kissed me. I have never seen her, from that hour, but I think of her to this hour as my friend.
半小时后，马车准时地从大门下隆隆驶来，他们把我带下来，我感到温暖、神清气爽、善意安慰，而且安全（我向他们保证）不会再晕倒了。我上车后，满怀感激地与大家告别后，最小的女儿——他们告诉我，她是一个十九岁的花季少女，将是第一个结婚的——走上马车台阶，伸手进来，吻了我。从那时起我就再也没有见过她，但直到现在我仍将她视为我的朋友。

The transparent windows with the fire and light, looking so bright and warm from the cold darkness out of doors, were soon gone, and again we were crushing and churning the loose snow. We went on with toil enough, but the dismal roads were not much worse than they had been, and the stage was only nine miles. My companion smoking on the box—I had thought at the last inn of begging him to do so when I saw him standing at a great fire in a comfortable cloud of tobacco—was as vigilant as ever and as quickly down and up again when we came to any human abode or any human creature. He had lighted his little dark lantern, which seemed to be a favourite with him, for we had lamps to the carriage; and every now and then he turned it upon me to see that I was doing well. There was a folding-window to the carriage-head, but I never closed it, for it seemed like shutting out hope.
透明的窗户上有火和光，在门外寒冷的黑暗中显得如此明亮和温暖，但很快就消失了，我们再次压碎和搅拌松散的雪。我们继续辛苦地前行，但那条阴暗的道路并不比以前糟糕多少，而且舞台只有九英里。我的同伴在盒子上抽烟——在最后一家旅馆里，当我看到他站在篝火旁，烟雾缭绕，我本想求他这么做——他一如既往地保持警惕，当我们离开时，他很快又站了起来。来到任何人类住所或任何人类生物。他点亮了他的小黑灯笼，这似乎是他最喜欢的，因为我们的马车上有灯。他时不时地把注意力转向我，看看我做得很好。车头有一扇折叠窗，但我从未关上它，因为这似乎将希望拒之门外。

We came to the end of the stage, and still the lost trace was not recovered. I looked at him anxiously when we stopped to change, but I knew by his yet graver face as he stood watching the ostlers that he had heard nothing. Almost in an instant afterwards, as I leaned back in my seat, he looked in, with his lighted lantern in his hand, an excited and quite different man.
我们来到了舞台的尽头，但丢失的痕迹仍然没有恢复。当我们停下来换衣服时，我焦急地看着他，但当他站在那里看着马夫们时，我从他更加严肃的表情中知道他什么也没听到。几乎就在那之后的一瞬间，当我向后靠在座位上时，他手里拿着点燃的灯笼，朝里望去，他是一个兴奋的、截然不同的人。

‘What is it?’ said I, starting. ‘Is she here?’
“这是什么？”我吃惊地说。 “她在吗？”

‘No, no. Don’t deceive yourself, my dear. Nobody’s here. But I’ve got it!’
'不，不。不要欺骗自己，亲爱的。没有人在这里。但我明白了！

The crystallized snow was in his eyelashes, in his hair, lying in ridges on his dress. He had to shake it from his face and get his breath before he spoke to me.
结晶的雪落在他的睫毛上、头发上、衣服上，呈脊状分布。在跟我说话之前，他必须先把脸上的灰尘甩掉，平复一下呼吸。

‘Now, Miss Summerson,’ said he, beating his finger on the apron, ‘don’t you be disappointed at what I’m a-going to do. You know me. I’m Inspector Bucket, and you can trust me. We’ve come a long way; never mind. Four horses out there for the next stage up! Quick!’
“现在，萨默森小姐，”他用手指敲着围裙说道，“你不要对我要做的事情感到失望。你了解我。我是巴克特督察，你可以相信我。我们已经走了很长的路；没关系。四匹马即将进入下一阶段！快的！'

There was a commotion in the yard, and a man came running out of the stables to know if he meant up or down.
院子里一阵骚动，一个人从马厩里跑出来，想知道他是要上还是下。

‘Up, I tell you! Up! Ain’t it English? Up!’
‘起来，我告诉你！向上！不是英文吗？向上！'

‘Up?’ said I, astonished. ‘To London! Are we going back?’
“起来？”我惊讶地说。 '去伦敦！我们要回去吗？

‘Miss Summerson,’ he answered, ‘back. Straight back as a die. You know me. Don’t be afraid. I’ll follow the other, by G—‘
“萨默森小姐，”他回答道，“回来了。”像死了一样直接回来。你了解我。不要害怕。我会跟着另一个，G——”

‘The other?’ I repeated. ‘Who?’
“另一个？”我重复道。 'WHO？'

‘You called her Jenny, didn’t you? I’ll follow her. Bring those two pair out here for a crown a man. Wake up, some of you!’
“你叫她珍妮，是吗？我会跟着她。把这两对带出来，作为一个男人的王冠。醒醒吧，你们中的一些人！

‘You will not desert this lady we are in search of; you will not abandon her on such a night and in such a state of mind as I know her to be in!’ said I, in an agony, and grasping his hand.
“你不会抛弃我们正在寻找的这位女士；你不会在这样的夜晚、在这样的心情下抛弃她！我抓住了他的手，痛苦地说。

‘You are right, my dear, I won’t. But I’ll follow the other. Look alive here with them horses. Send a man for’ard in the saddle to the next stage, and let him send another for’ard again, and order four on, up, right through. My darling, don’t you be afraid!’
“你说得对，亲爱的，我不会。”但我会跟随另一个。看看这里的马匹是否充满生机。派一个坐在马鞍上的人到下一个阶段，然后让他再派另一个人，然后命令四个人上，上，一直通过。我亲爱的，别害怕！

These orders and the way in which he ran about the yard urging them caused a general excitement that was scarcely less bewildering to me than the sudden change. But in the height of the confusion, a mounted man galloped away to order the relays, and our horses were put to with great speed.
这些命令以及他在院子里跑来跑去催促这些命令的方式引起了普遍的兴奋，这与突然的变化一样让我感到困惑。但就在最混乱的时候，一个骑马的人疾驰而去，命令接力，我们的马匹很快就被催动了。

‘My dear,’ said Mr. Bucket, jumping to his seat and looking in again, ‘—you’ll excuse me if I’m too familiar—don’t you fret and worry yourself no more than you can help. I say nothing else at present; but you know me, my dear; now, don’t you?’
“亲爱的，”巴克特先生说，跳到座位上，又往里看了一眼，“——如果我太熟悉了，请原谅我——别太着急和担心了。”目前我什么也没说；但亲爱的，你了解我；现在，不是吗？

I endeavoured to say that I knew he was far more capable than I of deciding what we ought to do, but was he sure that this was right? Could I not go forward by myself in search of—I grasped his hand again in my distress and whispered it to him—of my own mother.
我尽力说我知道他比我更有能力决定我们应该做什么，但他确定这是正确的吗？我难道不能独自前去寻找——我痛苦地再次握住他的手，低声对他说——我自己的母亲。

‘My dear,’ he answered, ‘I know, I know, and would I put you wrong, do you think? Inspector Bucket. Now you know me, don’t you?’
“亲爱的，”他回答道，“我知道，我知道，你认为我会误会你吗？督察桶。现在你认识我了，不是吗？

What could I say but yes!
我还能说什么，但是是的！

‘Then you keep up as good a heart as you can, and you rely upon me for standing by you, no less than by Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet. Now, are you right there?’
“那么，你就尽可能保持一颗善良的心，你就相信我会支持你，就像莱斯特·戴洛克爵士从男爵那样。”现在，你在吗？

‘All right, sir!’
“好吧，先生！”

‘Off she goes, then. And get on, my lads!’
‘那么她就走了。继续前进，我的小伙子们！

We were again upon the melancholy road by which we had come, tearing up the miry sleet and thawing snow as if they were torn up by a waterwheel.
我们又回到了原来那条忧郁的路上，泥泞的雨夹雪和融化的雪，就像被水车撕裂一样。

CHAPTER LVIII
第四十八章


A Wintry Day and Night
寒冷的一天一夜

Still impassive, as behoves its breeding, the Dedlock town house carries itself as usual towards the street of dismal grandeur. There are powdered heads from time to time in the little windows of the hall, looking out at the untaxed powder falling all day from the sky; and in the same conservatory there is peach blossom turning itself exotically to the great hall fire from the nipping weather out of doors. It is given out that my Lady has gone down into Lincolnshire, but is expected to return presently.
戴德洛克联排别墅依然冷漠，正如它的诞生所应有的那样，它像往常一样走向悲惨的宏伟街道。大厅的小窗户里不时有扑粉的脑袋，望着窗外终日从天而降的未纳税的粉末；在同一个温室里，桃花在室外寒冷的天气中异国情调地转向大厅的火光。据报道，夫人已前往林肯郡，但预计很快就会返回。

Rumour, busy overmuch, however, will not go down into Lincolnshire. It persists in flitting and chattering about town. It knows that that poor unfortunate man, Sir Leicester, has been sadly used. It hears, my dear child, all sorts of shocking things. It makes the world of five miles round quite merry. Not to know that there is something wrong at the Dedlocks’ is to augur yourself unknown. One of the peachy-cheeked charmers with the skeleton throats is already apprised of all the principal circumstances that will come out before the Lords on Sir Leicester’s application for a bill of divorce.
然而，由于过于忙碌，谣言不会传到林肯郡。它持续在城里飞来飞去、喋喋不休。它知道那个可怜的不幸的人，莱斯特爵士，已经被可悲地利用了。我亲爱的孩子，它听到了各种令人震惊的事情。它使五英里圆的世界变得非常快乐。不知道戴德洛克家出了什么问题就预示着你自己不为人知。一位面颊桃色、喉咙骷髅的魅力人物已经获悉了莱斯特爵士申请离婚法案时将在上议院提出的所有主要情况。

At Blaze and Sparkle’s the jewellers and at Sheen and Gloss’s the mercers, it is and will be for several hours the topic of the age, the feature of the century. The patronesses of those establishments, albeit so loftily inscrutable, being as nicely weighed and measured there as any other article of the stock-intrade, are perfectly understood in this new fashion by the rawest hand behind the counter. ‘Our people, Mr. Jones,’ said Blaze and Sparkle to the hand in question on engaging him, ‘our people, sir, are sheep—mere sheep. Where two or three marked ones go, all the rest follow. Keep those two or three in your eye, Mr. Jones, and you have the flock.’ So, likewise, Sheen and Gloss to THEIR Jones, in reference to knowing where to have the fashionable people and how to bring what they (Sheen and Gloss) choose into fashion. On similar unerring principles, Mr. Sladdery the librarian, and indeed the great farmer of gorgeous sheep, admits this very day, ‘Why yes, sir, there certainly ARE reports concerning Lady Dedlock, very current indeed among my high connexion, sir. You see, my high connexion must talk about something, sir; and it’s only to get a subject into vogue with one or two ladies I could name to make it go down with the whole. Just what I should have done with those ladies, sir, in the case of any novelty you had left to me to bring in, they have done of themselves in this case through knowing Lady Dedlock and being perhaps a little innocently jealous of her too, sir. You’ll find, sir, that this topic will be very popular among my high connexion. If it had been a speculation, sir, it would have brought money. And when I say so, you may trust to my being right, sir, for I have made it my business to study my high connexion and to be able to wind it up like a clock, sir.’
在 Blaze and Sparkle’s 珠宝商和 Sheen and Gloss’s Mercer 中，它现在和将来都会成为几个小时的时代主题、世纪特征。这些场所的女赞助人，尽管如此高深莫测，就像股票交易中的任何其他物品一样，在那里经过了很好的称重和测量，柜台后面最原始的手以这种新方式完全理解了。 “我们的人民，琼斯先生，”布莱兹和斯帕克尔在与他接触时对那只手说道，“我们的人民，先生，都是羊——只是羊。”两到三个标记的去哪里，其余的都跟着去。琼斯先生，把这两三个人放在你的眼睛里，你就有了羊群。”所以，同样，光泽和光泽给他们的琼斯，指的是知道哪里有时尚人士以及如何带来他们的东西（光泽和光泽）光泽）选择融入时尚。基于类似的无误原则，图书管理员斯拉德利先生，事实上也是美丽羊的伟大农民，今天承认，“为什么是的，先生，肯定有关于戴德洛克夫人的报道，在我的高层关系中确实很流行，先生。”你看，我的高级亲戚必须谈论一些事情，先生；这只是为了让一个主题在我能说出名字的一两个女士中流行起来，让它与整体一起流行。先生，如果您留给我带来任何新奇的东西，我应该对那些女士们做些什么，在这种情况下，她们通过认识德洛克夫人并且也许也有点天真地嫉妒她，做了自己的事情，先生。先生，你会发现这个话题在我的高层人士中会很受欢迎。先生，如果这是一次投机，就会带来金钱。 当我这么说时，您可以相信我是对的，先生，因为我把研究我的高级关系作为我的职责，并能够像时钟一样给它上发条，先生。’

Thus rumour thrives in the capital, and will not go down into Lincolnshire. By half-past five, post meridian, Horse Guards’ time, it has even elicited a new remark from the Honourable Mr. Stables, which bids fair to outshine the old one, on which he has so long rested his colloquial reputation. This sparkling sally is to the effect that although he always knew she was the best-groomed woman in the stud, he had no idea she was a bolter. It is immensely received in turf-circles.
因此，谣言在首都盛行，不会传到林肯郡。到了下午五点半，即午后，即皇家骑兵卫队时间，它甚至引起了尊敬的马厩先生的新言论，这显然比他长期以来赖以口语声誉的旧言论更加耀眼。这个闪闪发光的俏皮话的意思是，尽管他一直都知道她是马场里打扮得最好的女人，但他不知道她是一名爆弹手。它在圈子里受到了极大的欢迎。

At feasts and festivals also, in firmaments she has often graced, and among constellations she outshone but yesterday, she is still the prevalent subject. What is it? Who is it? When was it? Where was it? How was it? She is discussed by her dear friends with all the genteelest slang in vogue, with the last new word, the last new manner, the last new drawl, and the perfection of polite indifference. A remarkable feature of the theme is that it is found to be so inspiring that several people come out upon it who never came out before—positively say things! William Buffy carries one of these smartnesses from the place where he dines down to the House, where the Whip for his party hands it about with his snuff-box to keep men together who want to be off, with such effect that the Speaker (who has had it privately insinuated into his own ear under the corner of his wig) cries, ‘Order at the bar!’ three times without making an impression.
在节日和盛宴上，她也经常在苍穹中熠熠生辉，在星座中，她也显得格外耀眼，但昨天，她仍然是普遍的话题。它是什么？是谁？那是什么时候？它在哪里？它怎么样？她亲爱的朋友们用所有流行的最文雅的俚语谈论她，用最后一个新词，最后一个新方式，最后一个新拖慢语气，以及完美的礼貌冷漠。这个主题的一个显着特点是，它是如此鼓舞人心，以至于有几个以前从未出现过的人站出来——积极地说一些事情！威廉·巴菲（William Buffy）将其中一项聪明才智从他用餐的地方带到了众议院，在那里，他所在政党的党鞭用他的鼻烟盒将其传递给想要离开的人，以将那些想要离开的人聚集在一起，其效果是议长（谁他在假发一角下偷偷地把它塞进了自己的耳朵里）喊了三遍“到酒吧点餐！”却没有留下任何印象。

And not the least amazing circumstance connected with her being vaguely the town talk is that people hovering on the confines of Mr. Sladdery’s high connexion, people who know nothing and ever did know nothing about her, think it essential to their reputation to pretend that she is their topic too, and to retail her at secondhand with the last new word and the last new manner, and the last new drawl, and the last new polite indifference, and all the rest of it, all at second-hand but considered equal to new in inferior systems and to fainter stars. If there be any man of letters, art, or science among these little dealers, how noble in him to support the feeble sisters on such majestic crutches!
与她隐隐约约地成为镇上谈论的最令人惊奇的情况是，那些徘徊在斯拉德利先生的高层关系范围内的人们，那些对她一无所知并且曾经一无所知的人，认为假装她对他们的声誉至关重要也是他们的话题，用二手的最后一个新单词和最后一个新的方式，最后一个新的慢吞吞的声音，最后一个新的礼貌的冷漠，以及所有其他的东西，所有这些都是二手的，但被认为是平等的到劣质系统中的新星和较暗的恒星。如果这些小贩中间有一个文学家、艺术家、科学家，他能拄着如此威严的拐杖扶着弱小的姐妹们，那是多么高尚啊！

So goes the wintry day outside the Dedlock mansion. How within it?
戴德洛克宅邸外的冬日就这样过去了。怎么在里面？

Sir Leicester, lying in his bed, can speak a little, though with difficulty and indistinctness. He is enjoined to silence and to rest, and they have given him some opiate to lull his pain, for his old enemy is very hard with him. He is never asleep, though sometimes he seems to fall into a dull waking doze. He caused his bedstead to be moved out nearer to the window when he heard it was such inclement weather, and his head to be so adjusted that he could see the driving snow and sleet. He watches it as it falls, throughout the whole wintry day.
莱斯特爵士躺在床上，能说一点话，虽然很困难，也很模糊。他被命令保持安静并休息，他们给了他一些鸦片来减轻他的痛苦，因为他的老敌人对他非常严厉。他从不睡觉，尽管有时他似乎会陷入昏昏欲睡的状态。当他听说天气如此恶劣时，他把床架移到靠近窗户的地方，并调整了他的头部，以便他可以看到大雪和雨夹雪。整个冬日里，他都看着它落下。

Upon the least noise in the house, which is kept hushed, his hand is at the pencil. The old housekeeper, sitting by him, knows what he would write and whispers, ‘No, he has not come back yet, Sir Leicester. It was late last night when he went. He has been but a little time gone yet.’
屋子里一直安静，只要有一点动静，他的手就会放在铅笔上。坐在他旁边的老管家知道他会写什么，低声说道：“不，他还没回来，莱斯特爵士。”他去的时候已经是深夜了。他已经走了一段时间了。

He withdraws his hand and falls to looking at the sleet and snow again until they seem, by being long looked at, to fall so thick and fast that he is obliged to close his eyes for a minute on the giddy whirl of white flakes and icy blots.
他收回手，再次注视着雨夹雪，直到经过长时间的观察，它们似乎下得又厚又快，以至于他不得不闭上眼睛一分钟，在白色雪花和冰的令人眼花缭乱的旋转中印迹。

He began to look at them as soon as it was light. The day is not yet far spent when he conceives it to be necessary that her rooms should be prepared for her. It is very cold and wet. Let there be good fires. Let them know that she is expected. Please see to it yourself. He writes to this purpose on his slate, and Mrs. Rouncewell with a heavy heart obeys.
天一亮他就开始看着他们。这一天还没有过去，他就觉得有必要为她准备房间了。天气又冷又湿。要有良好的火势。让他们知道她是值得期待的。请你自己看一下。他在石板上写下了这个目的，朗斯韦尔夫人心情沉重地服从了。

‘For I dread, George,’ the old lady says to her son, who waits below to keep her company when she has a little leisure, ‘I dread, my dear, that my Lady will never more set foot within these walls.’
“因为我害怕，乔治，”老太太对她的儿子说，她的儿子在下面等她有一点闲暇的时候陪伴她，“亲爱的，我担心我的夫人再也不会踏进这些墙了。”

‘That’s a bad presentiment, mother.’
“这是一个不好的预感，妈妈。”

‘Nor yet within the walls of Chesney Wold, my dear.’
“亲爱的，还没有在切斯尼沃尔德的围墙内。”

‘That’s worse. But why, mother?’
‘那更糟了。但为什么呢，妈妈？

‘When I saw my Lady yesterday, George, she looked to me—and I may say at me too—as if the step on the Ghost’s Walk had almost walked her down.’
“昨天我见到我的夫人乔治时，她看着我——我也可以这么说——好像幽灵步道上的台阶差点把她带倒了。”

‘Come, come! You alarm yourself with old-story fears, mother.’
'来来！你用老故事的恐惧来警醒自己，妈妈。”

‘No I don’t, my dear. No I don’t. It’s going on for sixty year that I have been in this family, and I never had any fears for it before. But it’s breaking up, my dear; the great old Dedlock family is breaking up.’
“不，我不喜欢，亲爱的。不，我不。我在这个家庭里已经六十年了，以前我从未有过任何恐惧。但亲爱的，它正在分手；伟大的老戴德洛克家族正在分裂。

‘I hope not, mother.’
“我希望不会，妈妈。”

‘I am thankful I have lived long enough to be with Sir Leicester in this illness and trouble, for I know I am not too old nor too useless to be a welcomer sight to him than anybody else in my place would be. But the step on the Ghost’s Walk will walk my Lady down, George; it has been many a day behind her, and now it will pass her and go on.’
“我很庆幸自己能活得足够长，能够在这场疾病和麻烦中与莱斯特爵士在一起，因为我知道我并没有太老，也没有太无用，无法比我这个位置上的任何人更受他欢迎。但是幽灵步道上的台阶会带我的女士下来，乔治；她已经过去很多天了，现在它将超越她并继续下去。

‘Well, mother dear, I say again, I hope not.’
“好吧，亲爱的妈妈，我再说一遍，我希望不会。”

‘Ah, so do I, George,’ the old lady returns, shaking her head and parting her folded hands. ‘But if my fears come true, and he has to know it, who will tell him!’
“啊，我也是，乔治，”老太太回答道，摇摇头，分开双手。 “但如果我的担心成真，而他必须知道这一点，谁会告诉他！”

‘Are these her rooms?’
“这些是她的房间吗？”

‘These are my Lady’s rooms, just as she left them.’
“这些是夫人的房间，就像她离开时一样。”

‘Why, now,’ says the trooper, glancing round him and speaking in a lower voice, ‘I begin to understand how you come to think as you do think, mother. Rooms get an awful look about them when they are fitted up, like these, for one person you are used to see in them, and that person is away under any shadow, let alone being God knows where.’
“哎呀，现在，”士兵环顾四周，低声说道，“我开始明白你是如何想出你现在的想法了，妈妈。当房间布置好后，它们看起来会很糟糕，就像这样，因为你习惯在房间里看到一个人，而那个人不在任何阴影下，更不用说上帝知道在哪里了。

He is not far out. As all partings foreshadow the great final one, so, empty rooms, bereft of a familiar presence, mournfully whisper what your room and what mine must one day be. My Lady’s state has a hollow look, thus gloomy and abandoned; and in the inner apartment, where Mr. Bucket last night made his secret perquisition, the traces of her dresses and her ornaments, even the mirrors accustomed to reflect them when they were a portion of herself, have a desolate and vacant air. Dark and cold as the wintry day is, it is darker and colder in these deserted chambers than in many a hut that will barely exclude the weather; and though the servants heap fires in the grates and set the couches and the chairs within the warm glass screens that let their ruddy light shoot through to the furthest corners, there is a heavy cloud upon the rooms which no light will dispel.
他已经离我们不远了。正如所有的离别都预示着最后的离别，所以，空荡荡的房间，失去了熟悉的存在，悲伤地低语着你的房间和我的房间有一天会是什么样子。夫人的状态看起来空洞、阴暗、被遗弃；在内室里，也就是巴克特先生昨晚秘密探查的地方，她的衣服和装饰品的痕迹，甚至是那些习惯于反射它们的镜子，当它们是她自己的一部分时，都透着一种荒凉和空虚的气氛。尽管冬日又黑又冷，但这些废弃的房间比许多几乎无法排除天气的小屋更黑、更冷。尽管仆人们在壁炉里堆起火，把沙发和椅子放在温暖的玻璃屏风里，让红色的光射到最远的角落，但房间里却有一层厚重的云，没有任何光线可以驱散。

The old housekeeper and her son remain until the preparations are complete, and then she returns upstairs. Volumnia has taken Mrs. Rouncewell’s place in the meantime, though pearl necklaces and rouge pots, however calculated to embellish Bath, are but indifferent comforts to the invalid under present circumstances. Volumnia, not being supposed to know (and indeed not knowing) what is the matter, has found it a ticklish task to offer appropriate observations and consequently has supplied their place with distracting smoothings of the bed-linen, elaborate locomotion on tiptoe, vigilant peeping at her kinsman’s eyes, and one exasperating whisper to herself of, ‘He is asleep.’ In disproof of which superfluous remark Sir Leicester has indignantly written on the slate, ‘I am not.’
老管家和她的儿子留下来，直到准备工作完成，然后她才回到楼上。与此同时，沃伦尼亚取代了朗斯韦尔夫人的位置，尽管珍珠项链和胭脂罐无论多么精心设计来装饰巴斯，在目前的情况下对病人来说都只是无足轻重的安慰。沃伦尼亚不应该知道（实际上也不知道）发生了什么事，却发现提供适当的观察是一项棘手的任务，因此用令人分心的平滑床单、踮起脚尖的复杂动作、警惕的偷看来代替自己的位置。看着她亲戚的眼睛，她恼怒地低声自言自语道：“他睡着了。”为了反驳这一多余的话，莱斯特爵士愤怒地在石板上写下：“我没有。”

Yielding, therefore, the chair at the bedside to the quaint old housekeeper, Volumnia sits at a table a little removed, sympathetically sighing. Sir Leicester watches the sleet and snow and listens for the returning steps that he expects. In the ears of his old servant, looking as if she had stepped out of an old picture-frame to attend a summoned Dedlock to another world, the silence is fraught with echoes of her own words, ‘who will tell him!’
因此，沃伦尼亚将床边的椅子让给了古色古香的老管家，坐在一张稍远的桌子旁，同情地叹了口气。莱斯特爵士注视着雨夹雪，聆听着他期待的归来的脚步声。在他的老仆人耳中，她仿佛从旧相框里走出来，去参加被召唤的戴德洛克到另一个世界，沉默中充满了她自己的话的回响：“谁来告诉他！”

He has been under his valet’s hands this morning to be made presentable and is as well got up as the circumstances will allow. He is propped with pillows, his grey hair is brushed in its usual manner, his linen is arranged to a nicety, and he is wrapped in a responsible dressing-gown. His eye-glass and his watch are ready to his hand. It is necessary—less to his own dignity now perhaps than for her sake—that he should be seen as little disturbed and as much himself as may be. Women will talk, and Volumnia, though a Dedlock, is no exceptional case. He keeps her here, there is little doubt, to prevent her talking somewhere else. He is very ill, but he makes his present stand against distress of mind and body most courageously.
今天早上，他一直在他的贴身男仆的照顾下，让自己变得体面，并在情况允许的情况下起床。他枕着枕头，灰白的头发照常梳理，亚麻布整理得井井有条，身上裹着一件负责任的晨衣。他的眼镜和手表已经准备好了。有必要——现在也许不是为了他自己的尊严，而是为了她——让人们看到他尽可能少受干扰，尽可能展现他自己。女人会说话，沃伦尼亚虽然是戴德洛克人，但也不例外。毫无疑问，他把她留在这里，是为了防止她在别处说话。他病得很重，但他以最勇敢的方式面对身心的痛苦。

The fair Volumnia, being one of those sprightly girls who cannot long continue silent without imminent peril of seizure by the dragon Boredom, soon indicates the approach of that monster with a series of undisguisable yawns. Finding it impossible to suppress those yawns by any other process than conversation, she compliments Mrs. Rouncewell on her son, declaring that he positively is one of the finest figures she ever saw and as soldierly a looking person, she should think, as what’s his name, her favourite Life Guardsman —the man she dotes on, the dearest of creatures—who was killed at Waterloo.
美丽的沃伦尼亚是那些活泼的女孩之一，她不能长时间保持沉默，否则就会面临被无聊之龙抓住的迫在眉睫的危险，她很快就用一系列毫不掩饰的哈欠来表明那个怪物的逼近。她发现除了谈话之外，不可能通过任何其他方式来抑制哈欠，她称赞朗斯韦尔夫人对她儿子的评价，宣称他确实是她见过的最优秀的人物之一，她应该认为，他是一个看起来像军人的人，就像他的儿子一样。名字，她最喜欢的近卫军——她最喜爱的人，最亲爱的生物——他在滑铁卢被杀。

Sir Leicester hears this tribute with so much surprise and stares about him in such a confused way that Mrs. Rouncewell feels it necesary to explain.
莱斯特爵士听到这番致敬，感到非常惊讶，并以一种困惑的方式盯着他，朗斯韦尔夫人觉得有必要解释一下。

‘Miss Dedlock don’t speak of my eldest son, Sir Leicester, but my youngest. I have found him. He has come home.’
“戴德洛克小姐说的不是我的长子莱斯特爵士，而是我最小的儿子。我已经找到他了。他已经回家了。

Sir Leicester breaks silence with a harsh cry. ‘George? Your son George come home, Mrs. Rouncewell?’
莱斯特爵士一声刺耳的叫喊打破了沉默。 '乔治？朗斯韦尔夫人，你的儿子乔治回家了吗？

The old housekeeper wipes her eyes. ‘Thank God. Yes, Sir Leicester.’
老管家擦了擦眼睛。 '感谢上帝。是的，莱斯特爵士。

Does this discovery of some one lost, this return of some one so long gone, come upon him as a strong confirmation of his hopes? Does he think, ‘Shall I not, with the aid I have, recall her safely after this, there being fewer hours in her case than there are years in his?’
某人失踪的发现，以及久别重逢的人的回归，对他来说是否是对他的希望的有力证实？他是否会想：“在我所拥有的帮助下，我是否应该在这之后安全地召回她，因为她的时间比他的时间要少？”

It is of no use entreating him; he is determined to speak now, and he does. In a thick crowd of sounds, but still intelligibly enough to be understood.
恳求他是没有用的；他现在决心要发言，而且他确实这么做了。在一大堆声音中，但仍然清晰易懂。

‘Why did you not tell me, Mrs. Rouncewell?’
“朗斯韦尔夫人，你为什么不告诉我？”

‘It happened only yesterday, Sir Leicester, and I doubted your being well enough to be talked to of such things.’
“这件事就发生在昨天，莱斯特爵士，我怀疑你的身体状况是否足以让别人谈论这样的事情。”

Besides, the giddy Volumnia now remembers with her little scream that nobody was to have known of his being Mrs. Rouncewell’s son and that she was not to have told. But Mrs. Rouncewell protests, with warmth enough to swell the stomacher, that of course she would have told Sir Leicester as soon as he got better.
此外，头晕的沃伦尼亚现在用她的小尖叫声记起了，没有人应该知道他是朗斯韦尔夫人的儿子，而她也不应该告诉。但朗斯韦尔夫人抗议道，她的热情足以让胃胀起来，她当然会在莱斯特爵士康复后立即告诉他。

‘Where is your son George, Mrs. Rouncewell?’ asks Sir Leicester,
“朗斯韦尔夫人，您的儿子乔治在哪里？”莱斯特爵士问道，

Mrs. Rouncewell, not a little alarmed by his disregard of the doctor’s injunctions, replies, in London.
在伦敦，朗斯韦尔夫人对他无视医生的禁令感到非常震惊。

‘Where in London?’
“伦敦哪里？”

Mrs. Rouncewell is constrained to admit that he is in the house.
朗斯韦尔夫人不得不承认他在房子里。

‘Bring him here to my room. Bring him directly.’
‘把他带到我的房间来。直接带他来。

The old lady can do nothing but go in search of him. Sir Leicester, with such power of movement as he has, arranges himself a little to receive him. When he has done so, he looks out again at the falling sleet and snow and listens again for the returning steps. A quantity of straw has been tumbled down in the street to deaden the noises there, and she might be driven to the door perhaps without his hearing wheels.
老太太没有办法，只能去找他。莱斯特爵士的行动力极强，他稍微调整了一下身体，迎接他。当他这样做时，他再次望向正在飘落的雨夹雪，并再次倾听着归来的脚步声。街上已经撒了一些稻草，以减弱那里的噪音，也许他的轮子没有听力，她可能会被赶到门口。

He is lying thus, apparently forgetful of his newer and minor surprise, when the housekeeper returns, accompanied by her trooper son. Mr. George approaches softly to the bedside, makes his bow, squares his chest, and stands, with his face flushed, very heartily ashamed of himself.
当管家带着她的士兵儿子回来时，他就这样躺着，显然忘记了他的新的小惊喜。乔治先生轻轻地走到床边，鞠了一躬，挺胸站着，脸涨得通红，心里非常羞愧。

‘Good heaven, and it is really George Rouncewell!’ exclaims Sir Leicester. ‘Do you remember me, George?’
“天哪，这真是乔治·朗斯韦尔！”莱斯特爵士惊呼道。 “你还记得我吗，乔治？”

The trooper needs to look at him and to separate this sound from that sound before he knows what he has said, but doing this and being a little helped by his mother, he replies, ‘I must have a very bad memory, indeed, Sir Leicester, if I failed to remember you.’
士兵需要看着他，并在他知道自己说了什么之前将这个声音与那个声音分开，但是这样做并在他母亲的帮助下，他回答道：“确实，我的记忆力一定很差，先生。”莱斯特，如果我不记得你的话。

‘When I look at you, George Rouncewell,’ Sir Leicester observes with difficulty, ‘I see something of a boy at Chesney Wold—I remember well—very well.’
“当我看着你时，乔治·朗斯威尔，”莱斯特爵士艰难地说道，“我看到了切斯尼沃尔德的一个男孩——我记得很清楚——非常清楚。”

He looks at the trooper until tears come into his eyes, and then he looks at the sleet and snow again.
他看着士兵，直到泪水涌出眼眶，然后他再次看着雨夹雪。

‘I ask your pardon, Sir Leicester,’ says the trooper, ‘but would you accept of my arms to raise you up? You would lie easier, Sir Leicester, if you would allow me to move you.’
“请您原谅，莱斯特爵士，”士兵说道，“但是您愿意接受我的手臂来扶您起来吗？”莱斯特爵士，如果你允许我移动你的话，你会更容易撒谎。

‘If you please, George Rouncewell; if you will be so good.’
“如果你愿意的话，乔治·朗斯韦尔；如果你能这么好的话。

The trooper takes him in his arms like a child, lightly raises him, and turns him with his face more towards the window. ‘Thank you. You have your mother’s gentleness,’ returns Sir Leicester, ‘and your own strength. Thank you.’
士兵像个孩子一样把他抱在怀里，轻轻地把他抱起来，然后把他的脸转向窗户。 '谢谢。你有你母亲的温柔，”莱斯特爵士答道，“还有你自己的力量。谢谢。'

He signs to him with his hand not to go away. George quietly remains at the bedside, waiting to be spoken to.
他用手示意他不要走开。乔治静静地守在床边，等待与他交谈。

‘Why did you wish for secrecy?’ It takes Sir Leicester some time to ask this.
“你为什么希望保密？”莱斯特爵士花了一些时间才问这个问题。

‘Truly I am not much to boast of, Sir Leicester, and I—I should still, Sir Leicester, if you was not so indisposed—which I hope you will not be long—I should still hope for the favour of being allowed to remain unknown in general. That involves explanations not very hard to be guessed at, not very well timed here, and not very creditable to myself. However opinions may differ on a variety of subjects, I should think it would be universally agreed, Sir Leicester, that I am not much to boast of.’
“说实话，我没什么值得夸耀的，莱斯特爵士，而且我——我仍然应该，莱斯特爵士，如果你不是那么不舒服——我希望你不会太久——我仍然希望得到允许的恩惠。”总体上仍然未知。这涉及到的解释不太难猜，时机不太好，对我自己来说也不太可信。然而，在各种主题上可能会有不同的意见，我认为莱斯特爵士，我应该认为这是普遍同意的，我没什么值得夸耀的。

‘You have been a soldier,’ observes Sir Leicester, ‘and a faithful one.’
“你曾是一名士兵，”莱斯特爵士说道，“而且是一名忠诚的士兵。”

George makes his military how. ‘As far as that goes, Sir Leicester, I have done my duty under discipline, and it was the least I could do.’
乔治如何打造他的军队。 “就目前而言，莱斯特爵士，我已经按照纪律履行了我的职责，这是我至少能做的。”

‘You find me,’ says Sir Leicester, whose eyes are much attracted towards him, ‘far from well, George Rouncewell.’
“你发现我，”莱斯特爵士说道，他的目光被他吸引了，“乔治·朗斯韦尔，情况很糟糕。”

‘I am very sorry both to hear it and to see it, Sir Leicester.’
“我对听到和看到这件事感到非常遗憾，莱斯特爵士。”

‘I am sure you are. No. In addition to my older malady, I have had a sudden and bad attack. Something that deadens,’ making an endeavour to pass one hand down one side, ‘and confuses,’ touching his lips.
'我敢肯定你是。没有。除了我的老毛病之外，我还突发过一次严重的发作。某种东西会变得迟钝，”试图将一只手从一侧滑下来，“并且令人困惑，”触摸他的嘴唇。

George, with a look of assent and sympathy, makes another bow. The different times when they were both young men (the trooper much the younger of the two) and looked at one another down at Chesney Wold arise before them both and soften both.
乔治再次鞠了一躬，脸上露出赞同和同情的表情。当他们都是年轻人（那名士兵是两人中更年轻的）时，在切斯尼沃尔德互相注视的不同时刻出现在他们两人面前，使两人都软化了。

Sir Leicester, evidently with a great determination to say, in his own manner, something that is on his mind before relapsing into silence, tries to raise himself among his pillows a little more. George, observant of the action, takes him in his arms again and places him as he desires to be. ‘Thank you, George. You are another self to me. You have often carried my spare gun at Chesney Wold, George. You are familiar to me in these strange circumstances, very familiar.’ He has put Sir Leicester’s sounder arm over his shoulder in lifting him up, and Sir Leicester is slow in drawing it away again as he says these words.
莱斯特爵士显然下定决心要以自己的方式说出心中的想法，然后又陷入沉默，他试图在枕头上再站起来一点。乔治观察着这个动作，再次把他抱在怀里，把他放在他想要的位置。 “谢谢你，乔治。你对于我来说就是另一个自己。乔治，你经常在切斯尼沃尔德携带我的备用枪。在这些奇怪的环境中，你对我来说很熟悉，非常熟悉。”他把莱斯特爵士的健全手臂搭在肩上，将他举起来，莱斯特爵士一边说着这些话，一边慢慢地把它收回来。

‘I was about to add,’ he presently goes on, ‘I was about to add, respecting this attack, that it was unfortunately simultaneous with a slight misunderstanding between my Lady and myself. I do not mean that there was any difference between us (for there has been none), but that there was a misunderstanding of certain circumstances important only to ourselves, which deprives me, for a little while, of my Lady’s society. She has found it necessary to make a journey—I trust will shortly return. Volumnia, do I make myself intelligible? The words are not quite under my command in the manner of pronouncing them.’
“我正要补充一点，”他随即继续说道，“考虑到这次袭击，我正要补充一点，不幸的是，这同时发生在我和夫人之间的轻微误会。”我并不是说我们之间有任何区别（因为本来就没有），而是对某些只对我们自己重要的情况存在误解，这使我暂时无法与夫人交往。她觉得有必要去一趟——我相信很快就会回来。 Volumnia，我让自己变得容易理解了吗？这些词的发音方式不太受我的指挥。

Volumnia understands him perfectly, and in truth be delivers himself with far greater plainness than could have been supposed possible a minute ago. The effort by which he does so is written in the anxious and labouring expression of his face. Nothing but the strength of his purpose enables him to make it.
沃伦尼亚完全理解他，事实上，他的表达方式比一分钟前想象的要简单得多。他的努力从他脸上焦急而劳累的表情中可见一斑。只有坚定的目标才能让他实现这一目标。

‘Therefore, Volumnia, I desire to say in your presence—and in the presence of my old retainer and friend, Mrs. Rouncewell, whose truth and fidelity no one can question, and in the presence of her son George, who comes back like a familiar recollection of my youth in the home of my ancestors at Chesney Wold—in case I should relapse, in case I should not recover, in case I should lose both my speech and the power of writing, though I hope for better things—‘
“因此，沃伦尼亚，我想当着你的面，当着我的老随从和朋友朗斯韦尔夫人的面，她的真实性和忠诚度无人能质疑，还有她儿子乔治的面，他回来时就像这是我年轻时在切斯尼沃尔德祖先家里的熟悉回忆——万一我旧病复发，万一我不能康复，万一我失去言语和写作的能力，尽管我希望有更好的事情—— '

The old housekeeper weeping silently; Volumnia in the greatest agitation, with the freshest bloom on her cheeks; the trooper with his arms folded and his head a little bent, respectfully attentive.
老管家默默流泪；沃伦尼娅心情极度激动，脸颊上绽放着最新鲜的花朵；士兵双手抱胸，微微低着头，恭敬地专注着。

‘Therefore I desire to say, and to call you all to witness— beginning, Volumnia, with yourself, most solemnly—that I am on unaltered terms with Lady Dedlock. That I assert no cause whatever of complaint against her. That I have ever had the strongest affection for her, and that I retain it undiminished. Say this to herself, and to every one. If you ever say less than this, you will be guilty of deliberate falsehood to me.’
“因此，我想要说，并请你们所有人见证——首先，沃伦妮娅，您本人，最庄严地——我与戴德洛克夫人的关系没有改变。我断言没有任何理由对她提出投诉。我对她怀有最强烈的感情，而且我一直保持着这种感情，丝毫没有减退。这句话对她自己说，也对每个人说。如果你说的比这个少，你就会犯有故意对我撒谎的罪。

Volumnia tremblingly protests that she will observe his injunctions to the letter.
沃伦尼娅颤抖着抗议，要求她严格遵守他的禁令。

‘My Lady is too high in position, too handsome, too accomplished, too superior in most respects to the best of those by whom she is surrounded, not to have her enemies and traducers, I dare say. Let it be known to them, as I make it known to you, that being of sound mind, memory, and understanding, I revoke no disposition I have made in her favour. I abridge nothing I have ever bestowed upon her. I am on unaltered terms with her, and I recall—having the full power to do it if I were so disposed, as you see—no act I have done for her advantage and happiness.’
“我敢说，我的夫人地位太高，太英俊，太有成就，在许多方面都比她周围最优秀的人优越，她不可能没有敌人和诽谤者。”让他们知道，就像我让你知道的那样，我有健全的头脑、记忆力和理解力，我不会撤销我对她有利的安排。我没有减少我曾经给予她的任何东西。我和她的关系没有改变，而且我记得——如果我愿意的话，我完全有能力这么做，如你所见——我所做的任何事情都不是为了她的利益和幸福。

His formal array of words might have at any other time, as it has often had, something ludicrous in it, but at this time it is serious and affecting. His noble earnestness, his fidelity, his gallant shielding of her, his generous conquest of his own wrong and his own pride for her sake, are simply honourable, manly, and true. Nothing less worthy can be seen through the lustre of such qualities in the commonest mechanic, nothing less worthy can be seen in the best-born gentleman. In such a light both aspire alike, both rise alike, both children of the dust shine equally.
他的正式措辞在其他时候可能会像往常一样含有一些可笑的东西，但此时却是严肃而感人的。他高尚的真诚，他的忠诚，他对她的英勇保护，他慷慨地克服自己的错误，他为了她而感到自豪，这些都是光荣的，有男子气概的，真实的。从最普通的机械师身上的这些品质的光彩来看，没有什么比这更值得的了，在出身最好的绅士身上也没有什么比这更不值得的了。在这样的光芒下，两人都同样渴望，两人同样崛起，尘埃之子同样闪耀。

Overpowered by his exertions, he lays his head back on his pillows and closes his eyes for not more than a minute, when he again resumes his watching of the weather and his attention to the muffled sounds. In the rendering of those little services, and in the manner of their acceptance, the trooper has become installed as necessary to him. Nothing has been said, but it is quite understood. He falls a step or two backward to be out of sight and mounts guard a little behind his mother’s chair.
他被自己的努力压倒了，把头靠在枕头上，闭上眼睛不到一分钟，然后他再次开始观察天气和低沉的声音。在提供这些小服务的过程中，以及在接受这些服务的方式中，士兵已经成为他所需要的人。虽然什么也没说，但也都明白了。他向后退了一两步，以免被人看见，然后在他母亲的椅子后面稍远的地方站了起来。

The day is now beginning to decline. The mist and the sleet into which the snow has all resolved itself are darker, and the blaze begins to tell more vividly upon the room walls and furniture. The gloom augments; the bright gas springs up in the streets; and the pertinacious oil lamps which yet hold their ground there, with their source of life half frozen and half thawed, twinkle gaspingly like fiery fish out of water—as they are. The world, which has been rumbling over the straw and pulling at the bell, ‘to inquire,’ begins to go home, begins to dress, to dine, to discuss its dear friend with all the last new modes, as already mentioned.
现在天色开始下降。雪化成的雾气和雨夹雪变得更暗，房间的墙壁和家具上的火焰开始变得更加生动。阴霾加剧；街道上涌起明亮的气体；顽强的油灯仍然坚守在那里，它们的生命之源半冻半融，喘息着闪烁，就像离开水的火鱼一样。世界，一直在稻草上隆隆作响，拉响门铃，“询问”，开始回家，开始穿衣服，吃饭，用所有最后的新模式讨论它亲爱的朋友，正如已经提到的。

Now does Sir Leicester become worse, restless, uneasy, and in great pain. Volumnia, lighting a candle (with a predestined aptitude for doing something objectionable), is bidden to put it out again, for it is not yet dark enough. Yet it is very dark too, as dark as it will be all night. By and by she tries again. No! Put it out. It is not dark enough yet.
现在莱斯特爵士的情况变得更糟了，焦躁不安，心神不宁，而且非常痛苦。沃伦尼亚点燃了一支蜡烛（注定会做一些令人反感的事情），但被命令再次将其熄灭，因为天还不够黑。但天也很黑，就像整个晚上一样黑。渐渐地，她再次尝试。不！把它拿出来。天还不够黑。

His old housekeeper is the first to understand that he is striving to uphold the fiction with himself that it is not growing late.
他的老管家第一个明白，他正在努力坚持自己的幻想，即天色还不算晚。

‘Dear Sir Leicester, my honoured master,’ she softly whispers, ‘I must, for your own good, and my duty, take the freedom of begging and praying that you will not lie here in the lone darkness watching and waiting and dragging through the time. Let me draw the curtains, and light the candles, and make things more comfortable about you. The church-clocks will strike the hours just the same, Sir Leicester, and the night will pass away just the same. My Lady will come back, just the same.’
“亲爱的莱斯特爵士，我尊敬的主人，”她轻轻地低语道，“为了您的利益和我的职责，我必须拥有乞求和祈祷的自由，让您不会躺在这里，在孤独的黑暗中观看、等待和拖拖拉拉。”时间。让我拉上窗帘，点燃蜡烛，让你感觉更舒服。莱斯特爵士，教堂的钟会照常敲响，夜晚也会照常过去。无论如何，我的女士会回来的。

‘I know it, Mrs. Rouncewell, but I am weak—and he has been so long gone.’
“我知道，朗斯韦尔夫人，但我很虚弱——而且他已经走了这么久了。”

‘Not so very long, Sir Leicester. Not twenty-four hours yet.’
“不会太久，莱斯特爵士。还不到二十四小时。”

‘But that is a long time. Oh, it is a long time!’
‘但那是很长一段时间了。哦，已经很久了！

He says it with a groan that wrings her heart.
他说这话时，发出一阵呻吟，让她心痛不已。

She knows that this is not a period for bringing the rough light upon him; she thinks his tears too sacred to be seen, even by her. Therefore she sits in the darkness for a while without a word, then gently begins to move about, now stirring the fire, now standing at the dark window looking out. Finally he tells her, with recovered self-command, ‘As you say, Mrs. Rouncewell, it is no worse for being confessed. It is getting late, and they are not come. Light the room!’ When it is lighted and the weather shut out, it is only left to him to listen.
她知道现在不是对他进行严厉打击的时期；她认为他的眼泪太神圣了，连她自己都看不到。于是她在黑暗中一言不发地坐了一会儿，然后轻轻地走动起来，时而搅动火，时而站在黑暗的窗前向外看。最后，他恢复了自制力，对她说：“正如你所说，朗斯韦尔夫人，被坦白并没有更糟糕。”天色已晚，他们还没有来。照亮房间！”当房间亮起来并且天气不受影响时，他就只能听。

But they find that however dejected and ill he is, he brightens when a quiet pretence is made of looking at the fires in her rooms and being sure that everything is ready to receive her. Poor pretence as it is, these allusions to her being expected keep up hope within him.
但他们发现，无论他多么沮丧和生病，当他安静地假装看着她房间里的火并确信一切都准备好迎接她时，他就会变得高兴起来。尽管这是一种蹩脚的假装，但这些对她的期待的暗示让他内心充满了希望。

Midnight comes, and with it the same blank. The carriages in the streets are few, and other late sounds in that neighbourhood there are none, unless a man so very nomadically drunk as to stray into the frigid zone goes brawling and bellowing along the pavement. Upon this wintry night it is so still that listening to the intense silence is like looking at intense darkness. If any distant sound be audible in this case, it departs through the gloom like a feeble light in that, and all is heavier than before.
午夜来临，随之而来的是同样的空白。街上的马车很少，附近也没有其他晚间的声音，除非一个人醉得醉醺醺地误入寒冷地带，在人行道上吵架、吼叫。在这个冬夜，万籁俱寂，听着这寂静无声的声音，就如同看到了漆黑的夜色。在这种情况下，如果能听到远处的任何声音，它就会像微弱的光一样穿过黑暗，一切都比以前更沉重。

The corporation of servants are dismissed to bed (not unwilling to go, for they were up all last night), and only Mrs. Rouncewell and George keep watch in Sir Leicester’s room. As the night lags tardily on—or rather when it seems to stop altogether, at between two and three o’clock—they find a restless craving on him to know more about the weather, now he cannot see it. Hence George, patrolling regularly every half-hour to the rooms so carefully looked after, extends his march to the hall-door, looks about him, and brings back the best report he can make of the worst of nights, the sleet still falling and even the stone footways lying ankledeep in icy sludge.
一群仆人都被打发去睡觉了（不是不愿意去，因为他们昨晚一整晚都没睡），只有朗斯韦尔夫人和乔治在莱斯特爵士的房间里看守。随着夜幕慢慢降临——或者更确切地说，当夜色似乎完全停止时，在两点到三点之间——他们发现他焦躁不安地渴望了解更多有关天气的信息，但现在他却看不到了。因此，乔治每半小时定期巡逻一次，前往精心照料的房间，将行军延伸到大厅门口，环顾四周，并带回他所能对最糟糕的夜晚做出的最好的报告，雨夹雪仍在下着，甚至是深埋在冰冷污泥中的石板路。

Volumnia, in her room up a retired landing on the stair-case—the second turning past the end of the carving and gilding, a cousinly room containing a fearful abortion of a portrait of Sir Leicester banished for its crimes, and commanding in the day a solemn yard planted with dried-up shrubs like antediluvian specimens of black tea—is a prey to horrors of many kinds. Not last nor least among them, possibly, is a horror of what may befall her little income in the event, as she expresses it, ‘of anything happening’ to Sir Leicester. Anything, in this sense, meaning one thing only; and that the last thing that can happen to the consciousness of any baronet in the known world.
沃伦尼亚，在她的房间里，在楼梯上一个退休的平台上——经过雕刻和镀金末端的第二个转弯，这是一个堂兄的房间，里面有一幅因犯罪而被放逐的莱斯特爵士的肖像，令人恐惧地流产了，在白天指挥着庄严的院子里种满了干枯的灌木，就像古老的红茶标本一样，是多种恐怖的牺牲品。其中最重要的可能是，她担心如果莱斯特爵士“发生任何事情”，她微薄的收入可能会受到影响。从这个意义上来说，任何事物都只意味着一件事；这是已知世界中任何男爵意识中最不可能发生的事情。

An effect of these horrors is that Volumnia finds she cannot go to bed in her own room or sit by the fire in her own room, but must come forth with her fair head tied up in a profusion of shawl, and her fair form enrobed in drapery, and parade the mansion like a ghost, particularly haunting the rooms, warm and luxurious, prepared for one who still does not return. Solitude under such circumstances being not to be thought of, Volumnia is attended by her maid, who, impressed from her own bed for that purpose, extremely cold, very sleepy, and generally an injured maid as condemned by circumstances to take office with a cousin, when she had resolved to be maid to nothing less than ten thousand a year, has not a sweet expression of countenance.
这些恐怖的影响是，沃伦尼亚发现她不能在自己的房间里睡觉，也不能坐在自己房间的火边，但必须带着她美丽的头绑上大量的披肩，她美丽的身体被裹着窗帘，像幽灵一样在豪宅中游行，特别是在房间里出没，温暖而豪华，为仍然没有回来的人准备。在这种情况下，孤独是不值得考虑的，沃伦尼亚有她的女仆照顾，为此目的，她在自己的床上感到非常寒冷，非常困，而且通常是一个受伤的女仆，因为环境注定要与表弟一起上任当她决定每年做不少于一万人的女仆时，脸上的表情并不甜美。

The periodical visits of the trooper to these rooms, however, in the course of his patrolling is an assurance of protection and company both to mistress and maid, which renders them very acceptable in the small hours of the night. Whenever he is heard advancing, they both make some little decorative preparation to receive him; at other times they divide their watches into short scraps of oblivion and dialogues not wholly free from acerbity, as to whether Miss Dedlock, sitting with her feet upon the fender, was or was not falling into the fire when rescued (to her great displeasure) by her guardian genius the maid.
然而，巡警在巡逻过程中定期访问这些房间是对情妇和女仆​​的保护和陪伴的保证，这使得他们在深夜非常容易接受。每当听到他走过来时，他们都会做一些装饰性的准备来迎接他。其他时候，他们把手表分成简短的遗忘片段和不完全没有尖刻的对话，比如脚放在挡泥板上的戴德洛克小姐在获救时是否掉进了火里（令她非常不高兴）由她的守护天才女仆。

‘How is Sir Leicester now, Mr. George?’ inquires Volumnia, adjusting her cowl over her head.
“莱斯特爵士现在怎么样了，乔治先生？”沃伦妮娅一边问道，一边调整着头上的兜帽。

‘Why, Sir Leicester is much the same, miss. He is very low and ill, and he even wanders a little sometimes.’
“哎呀，莱斯特爵士也差不多，小姐。他的情绪非常低落，而且病得很重，有时甚至会走神。”

‘Has he asked for me?’ inquires Volumnia tenderly.
“他找过我吗？”沃伦尼亚温柔地问道。

‘Why, no, I can’t say he has, miss. Not within my hearing, that is to say.’
“为什么，不，我不能说他有，小姐。也就是说，不在我的听力范围内。

‘This is a truly sad time, Mr. George.’
“这真是一个悲伤的时刻，乔治先生。”

‘It is indeed, miss. Hadn’t you better go to bed?’
‘确实如此，小姐。你不是最好去睡觉吗？

‘You had a deal better go to bed, Miss Dedlock,’ quoth the maid sharply.
“戴德洛克小姐，你最好去睡觉，”女仆尖锐地说。

But Volumnia answers No! No! She may be asked for, she may be wanted at a moment’s notice. She never should forgive herself ‘if anything was to happen’ and she was not on the spot. She declines to enter on the question, mooted by the maid, how the spot comes to be there, and not in her room (which is nearer to Sir Leicester’s), but staunchly declares that on the spot she will remain. Volumnia further makes a merit of not having ‘closed an eye’—as if she had twenty or thirty—though it is hard to reconcile this statement with her having most indisputably opened two within five minutes.
但沃伦尼亚的回答是“不”！不！她可能会被要求，也可能会在接到通知后立即被通缉。 “如果发生任何事情”，她永远不应该原谅自己，而她又不在现场。她拒绝回答女仆提出的问题，即这个地点是如何出现在那里的，而不是在她的房间（离莱斯特爵士的房间更近），但坚定地宣称她将留在原地。沃伦尼娅还进一步指出，她没有“闭上一只眼睛”——就好像她有二十只或三十只眼睛一样——尽管很难将这一说法与她在五分钟内毫无争议地睁开两只眼睛相调和。

But when it comes to four o’clock, and still the same blank, Volumnia’s constancy begins to fail her, or rather it begins to strengthen, for she now considers that it is her duty to be ready for the morrow, when much may be expected of her, that, in fact, howsoever anxious to remain upon the spot, it may be required of her, as an act of self-devotion, to desert the spot. So when the trooper reappears with his, ‘Hadn’t you better go to bed, miss?’ and when the maid protests, more sharply than before, ‘You had a deal better go to bed, Miss Dedlock!’ she meekly rises and says, ‘Do with me what you think best!’
但是到了四点钟，仍然一片空白，沃伦尼娅的坚定不移开始让她失望，或者更确切地说，它开始加强，因为她现在认为她有责任为明天做好准备，因为明天可能会发生很多事情。事实上，无论她多么渴望留在原地，作为一种自我奉献的行为，她都可能需要离开原地。因此，当警察再次出现时，他问道：“小姐，你不应该去睡觉吗？”当女仆抗议得比以前更加尖锐时，“你最好去睡觉，戴德洛克小姐！”她温顺地站起来，说：“对我做你认为最好的事情！”

Mr. George undoubtedly thinks it best to escort her on his arm to the door of her cousinly chamber, and the maid as undoubtedly thinks it best to hustle her into bed with mighty little ceremony. Accordingly, these steps are taken; and now the trooper, in his rounds, has the house to himself.
乔治先生无疑认为最好是挽着她的胳膊护送她到她表弟的房间门口，而女仆无疑也认为最好以隆重的小仪式把她推到床上。因此，采取这些步骤；现在，巡查中的士兵已经拥有了这座房子。

There is no improvement in the weather. From the portico, from the eaves, from the parapet, from every ledge and post and pillar, drips the thawed snow. It has crept, as if for shelter, into the lintels of the great door—under it, into the corners of the windows, into every chink and crevice of retreat, and there wastes and dies. It is falling still; upon the roof, upon the skylight, even through the skylight, and drip, drip, drip, with the regularity of the Ghost’s Walk, on the stone floor below.
天气没有任何好转。从门廊、从屋檐、从护墙、从每一个壁架、柱子和柱子上，都滴着融化的雪。它就像是为了避难所一样，爬进了大门的门楣——门下，爬进了窗角，爬进了每一个退路的缝隙和缝隙，在那里浪费和死亡。它静止不动；在屋顶上，在天窗上，甚至透过天窗，滴，滴，滴，按照幽灵行走的规律，滴在下面的石头地板上。

The trooper, his old recollections awakened by the solitary grandeur of a great house—no novelty to him once at Chesney Wold— goes up the stairs and through the chief rooms, holding up his light at arm’s length. Thinking of his varied fortunes within the last few weeks, and of his rustic boyhood, and of the two periods of his life so strangely brought together across the wide intermediate space; thinking of the murdered man whose image is fresh in his mind; thinking of the lady who has disappeared from these very rooms and the tokens of whose recent presence are all here; thinking of the master of the house upstairs and of the foreboding, ‘Who will tell him!’ he looks here and looks there, and reflects how he MIGHT see something now, which it would tax his boldness to walk up to, lay his hand upon, and prove to be a fancy. But it is all blank, blank as the darkness above and below, while he goes up the great staircase again, blank as the oppressive silence.
士兵的旧回忆被一座宏伟的大房子唤醒了——在切斯尼沃尔德对他来说这并不新鲜——走上楼梯，穿过主要房间，举起手电筒，与他保持一臂距离。想到他在过去几周内的不同命运，想到他质朴的童年，想到他生命中的两个时期如此奇怪地跨越广阔的中间空间聚集在一起；想起那个被谋杀的人，他的形象还历历在目；想起那位从这些房间里消失的女士，以及她最近出现的痕迹都在这里；想到楼上的主人，想到不祥的预感，“谁会告诉他！”他看看这里，看看那里，思考着他现在可能会看到什么东西，这会考验他的勇气，他把手放下了。并被证明是一种幻想。但一切都是空白的，空白的就像上面和下面的黑暗一样，而当他再次走上大楼梯时，空白的就像令人压抑的沉默。

‘All is still in readiness, George Rouncewell?’
“一切都准备好了，乔治·朗斯韦尔？”

‘Quite orderly and right, Sir Leicester.’
“非常有秩序，也很正确，莱斯特爵士。”

‘No word of any kind?’
“没有任何消息吗？”

The trooper shakes his head.
士兵摇摇头。

‘No letter that can possibly have been overlooked?’
“没有一封信可能被忽视吗？”

But he knows there is no such hope as that and lays his head down without looking for an answer.
但他知道没有这样的希望，于是低下了头，没有寻求答案。

Very familiar to him, as he said himself some hours ago, George Rouncewell lifts him into easier positions through the long remainder of the blank wintry night, and equally familiar with his unexpressed wish, extinguishes the light and undraws the curtains at the first late break of day. The day comes like a phantom. Cold, colourless, and vague, it sends a warning streak before it of a deathlike hue, as if it cried out, ‘Look what I am bringing you who watch there! Who will tell him!’
正如几个小时前他自己所说的那样，乔治·朗斯韦尔对他来说非常熟悉，在漫长的冬夜里，乔治·朗斯韦尔把他抬到更容易的位置，同样熟悉他未表达的愿望，在第一次晚间休息时熄灭灯光并拉开窗帘。的一天。这一天像幻影一样来临。冰冷、无色、模糊，它在它面前发出一道死一般的警告，仿佛在呼喊：“看看我给你带来了什么！”谁来告诉他！

CHAPTER LIX
第十九章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

It was three o’clock in the morning when the houses outside London did at last begin to exclude the country and to close us in with streets. We had made our way along roads in a far worse condition than when we had traversed them by daylight, both the fall and the thaw having lasted ever since; but the energy of my companion never slackened. It had only been, as I thought, of less assistance than the horses in getting us on, and it had often aided them. They had stopped exhausted halfway up hills, they had been driven through streams of turbulent water, they had slipped down and become entangled with the harness; but he and his little lantern had been always ready, and when the mishap was set right, I had never heard any variation in his cool, ‘Get on, my lads!’
凌晨三点钟，伦敦郊外的房屋终于开始将乡村拒之门外，并用街道将我们封闭起来。我们沿着道路前行，路况比我们白天走过时要糟糕得多，从那时起，秋天和解冻就一直持续着。但我同伴的精力却从未减弱。正如我所想，它在让我们上车方面的帮助不如马匹，但它却经常帮助他们。他们在半山腰时筋疲力尽地停下来，他们被赶过汹涌的水流，他们滑倒并被挽具缠住；但他和他的小灯笼一直准备着，当事故得到纠正时，我从未听到他的冷静有任何变化，“加油，我的小伙子们！”

The steadiness and confidence with which he had directed our journey back I could not account for. Never wavering, he never even stopped to make an inquiry until we were within a few miles of London. A very few words, here and there, were then enough for him; and thus we came, at between three and four o’clock in the morning, into Islington.
我无法解释他在带领我们返程时表现出的坚定和自信。他毫不犹豫，甚至从未停下来询问，直到我们到达距离伦敦几英里的地方。对他来说，时不时说几句话就足够了。就这样，我们在凌晨三点到四点之间到达了伊斯灵顿。

I will not dwell on the suspense and anxiety with which I reflected all this time that we were leaving my mother farther and farther behind every minute. I think I had some strong hope that he must be right and could not fail to have a satisfactory object in following this woman, but I tormented myself with questioning it and discussing it during the whole journey. What was to ensue when we found her and what could compensate us for this loss of time were questions also that I could not possibly dismiss; my mind was quite tortured by long dwelling on such reflections when we stopped.
我不会详述我一直以来的悬念和焦虑，因为我们每一分钟都把母亲抛在身后越来越远。我想我有一种强烈的希望，他一定是对的，跟踪这个女人不可能没有一个令人满意的目标，但在整个旅程中我一直在质疑和讨论中折磨着自己。当我们找到她时会发生什么，以及什么可以补偿我们所损失的时间，这些也是我无法忽视的问题；当我们停下来时，我的心因长时间思考这些想法而受到折磨。

We stopped in a high-street where there was a coach-stand. My companion paid our two drivers, who were as completely covered with splashes as if they had been dragged along the roads like the carriage itself, and giving them some brief direction where to take it, lifted me out of it and into a hackney-coach he had chosen from the rest.
我们在一条大街上停了下来，那里有一个马车停靠站。我的同伴付钱给我们的两个司机，他们浑身溅满了水花，就好像他们像马车一样被拖过马路，并给了他们一些简短的指示，然后把我从车里抱起来，上了一辆出租马车。他是从其他人中选择的。

‘Why, my dear!’ he said as he did this. ‘How wet you are!’
“为什么，亲爱的！”他边说边这样做。 “你多湿啊！”

I had not been conscious of it. But the melted snow had found its way into the carriage, and I had got out two or three times when a fallen horse was plunging and had to be got up, and the wet had penetrated my dress. I assured him it was no matter, but the driver, who knew him, would not be dissuaded by me from running down the street to his stable, whence he brought an armful of clean dry straw. They shook it out and strewed it well about me, and I found it warm and comfortable.
我并没有意识到这一点。但融化的雪已经进入了马车，我下了两三次，一匹摔倒的马摔倒了，不得不站起来，湿透了我的衣服。我向他保证没关系，但认识他的司机不会被我劝阻，沿着街道跑到他的马厩，从那里他带来了一抱干净的干稻草。他们把它抖出来，撒在我身上，我觉得温暖又舒服。

‘Now, my dear,’ said Mr. Bucket, with his head in at the window after I was shut up. ‘We’re a-going to mark this person down. It may take a little time, but you don’t mind that. You’re pretty sure that I’ve got a motive. Ain’t you?’
“现在，亲爱的，”我被关起来后，巴克特先生把头探进窗户说道。 “我们要把这个人记下来。这可能需要一点时间，但你不介意。你很确定我有动机。你不是吗？

I little thought what it was, little thought in how short a time I should understand it better, but I assured him that I had confidence in him.
我几乎没有想到那是什么，也没有想到在多短的时间内我应该更好地理解它，但我向他保证我对他有信心。

‘So you may have, my dear,’ he returned. ‘And I tell you what! If you only repose half as much confidence in me as I repose in you after what I’ve experienced of you, that’ll do. Lord! You’re no trouble at all. I never see a young woman in any station of society—and I’ve seen many elevated ones too—conduct herself like you have conducted yourself since you was called out of your bed. You’re a pattern, you know, that’s what you are,’ said Mr. Bucket warmly; ‘you’re a pattern.’
“所以你可能有，亲爱的，”他回答道。 ‘我告诉你什么！在我经历过你之后，如果你对我的信心只有我对你的信心的一半，那就行了。主！你一点也不麻烦。我从来没有见过任何社会阶层的年轻女性——我也见过很多地位较高的女性——表现得像你被叫下床后的表现一样。 “你是一个榜样，你知道，你就是这样。”巴克特先生热情地说。 “你是一个典范。”

I told him I was very glad, as indeed I was, to have been no hindrance to him, and that I hoped I should be none now.
我告诉他，我很高兴，事实上我也确实如此，没有成为他的障碍，我希望我现在不会成为任何障碍。

‘My dear,’ he returned, ‘when a young lady is as mild as she’s game, and as game as she’s mild, that’s all I ask, and more than I expect. She then becomes a queen, and that’s about what you are yourself.’
“亲爱的，”他回答道，“当一位年轻女士既温和又活泼，又活泼又温和时，这就是我所要求的，而且比我期望的还要多。然后她成为女王，这就是你自己。”

With these encouraging words—they really were encouraging to me under those lonely and anxious circumstances—he got upon the box, and we once more drove away. Where we drove I neither knew then nor have ever known since, but we appeared to seek out the narrowest and worst streets in London. Whenever I saw him directing the driver, I was prepared for our descending into a deeper complication of such streets, and we never failed to do so.
他说完这句鼓励的话——在孤独焦虑的情况下对我来说确实是一种鼓励——上了车，我们再次开车离开了。我们当时不知道我们开车去哪里，从那以后我也不知道，但我们似乎在寻找伦敦最狭窄、最糟糕的街道。每当我看到他在指挥司机时，我就做好了进入更复杂的街道的准备，而且我们从来没有失败过。

Sometimes we emerged upon a wider thoroughfare or came to a larger building than the generality, well lighted. Then we stopped at offices like those we had visited when we began our journey, and I saw him in consultation with others. Sometimes he would get down by an archway or at a street corner and mysteriously show the light of his little lantern. This would attract similar lights from various dark quarters, like so many insects, and a fresh consultation would be held. By degrees we appeared to contract our search within narrower and easier limits. Single police-officers on duty could now tell Mr. Bucket what he wanted to know and point to him where to go. At last we stopped for a rather long conversation between him and one of these men, which I supposed to be satisfactory from his manner of nodding from time to time. When it was finished he came to me looking very busy and very attentive.
有时我们会出现在一条更宽阔的大道上，或者来到一栋比一般情况更大、光线充足的建筑物前。然后我们在我们开始旅程时参观过的办公室停下来，我看到他正在与其他人协商。有时他会走到拱门或街角，神秘地展示他的小灯笼的光芒。这会吸引来自各个黑暗角落的类似灯光，就像许多昆虫一样，并且将举行新的磋商。渐渐地，我们似乎将我们的搜索范围缩小到了更窄、更容易的范围内。值班的单身警察现在可以告诉巴克特先生他想知道什么，并指出他该去哪里。最后，我们停下来，他和其中一个人进行了相当长的交谈，从他不时点头的方式来看，我认为这很令人满意。结束后，他来到我身边，看上去很忙碌，也很专心。

‘Now, Miss Summerson, he said to me, ‘you won’t be alarmed whatever comes off, I know. It’s not necessary for me to give you any further caution than to tell you that we have marked this person down and that you may be of use to me before I know it myself. I don’t like to ask such a thing, my dear, but would you walk a little way?’
“现在，萨默森小姐，他对我说，‘我知道，无论发生什么，你都不会感到惊慌。我没有必要给你任何进一步的警告，只是告诉你我们已经标记了这个人，并且在我自己意识到之前你可能对我有用。我不想问这样的问题，亲爱的，但是你能走远一点吗？

Of course I got out directly and took his arm.
我当然是直接下车拉住他的手臂。

‘It ain’t so easy to keep your feet,’ said Mr. Bucket, ‘but take time.’
“保持稳定并不是那么容易，”巴克特先生说，“但是需要时间。”

Although I looked about me confusedly and hurriedly as we crossed the street, I thought I knew the place. ‘Are we in Holborn?’ I asked him.
虽然过马路时我困惑而匆忙地环顾四周，但我想我知道那个地方。 “我们在霍尔本吗？”我问他。

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Bucket. ‘Do you know this turning?’
“是的，”巴克特先生说。 “你知道这个转弯吗？”

‘It looks like Chancery Lane.’
“它看起来像大法官巷。”

‘And was christened so, my dear,’ said Mr. Bucket.
“亲爱的，它就是这么命名的，”巴克特先生说。

We turned down it, and as we went shuffling through the sleet, I heard the clocks strike half-past five. We passed on in silence and as quickly as we could with such a foothold, when some one coming towards us on the narrow pavement, wrapped in a cloak, stopped and stood aside to give me room. In the same moment I heard an exclamation of wonder and my own name from Mr. Woodcourt. I knew his voice very well.
我们拒绝了它，当我们拖着脚步穿过雨夹雪时，我听到时钟敲响了五点半。我们默默地、尽可能快地站稳脚跟，继续前行，这时，狭窄的人行道上，一个裹着斗篷的人向我们走来，停下来，站在一旁给我让出空间。与此同时，我听到伍德考特先生发出一声惊叹和我自己的名字。我很熟悉他的声音。

It was so unexpected and so—I don’t know what to call it, whether pleasant or painful—to come upon it after my feverish wandering journey, and in the midst of the night, that I could not keep back the tears from my eyes. It was like hearing his voice in a strange country.
在我狂热的流浪之旅之后，在半夜里，我不知道该怎么称呼它，是愉快的还是痛苦的，这真是太出乎意料了，我忍不住流下了眼泪。眼睛。就像在一个陌生的国家听到他的声音一样。

‘My dear Miss Summerson, that you should be out at this hour, and in such weather!’
“我亲爱的萨默森小姐，在这样的天气里，你应该在这个时间出去！”

He had heard from my guardian of my having been called away on some uncommon business and said so to dispense with any explanation. I told him that we had but just left a coach and were going—but then I was obliged to look at my companion.
他从我的监护人那里听说我因一些不寻常的事情而被叫走，所以他没有做任何解释。我告诉他我们刚刚离开了一辆教练并且要走了——但随后我不得不看看我的同伴。

‘Why, you see, Mr. Woodcourt’—he had caught the name from me—‘we are a-going at present into the next street. Inspector Bucket.’
“哎呀，你看，伍德考特先生”——他从我嘴里听到了这个名字——“我们现在正要去下一条街。桶督察。”

Mr. Woodcourt, disregarding my remonstrances, had hurriedly taken off his cloak and was putting it about me. ‘That’s a good move, too,’ said Mr. Bucket, assisting, ‘a very good move.’
伍德考特先生不顾我的抗议，急忙脱下斗篷，给我披上。 “这也是一个很好的举措，”巴克特先生帮忙说道，“非常好的举措。”

‘May I go with you?’ said Mr. Woodcourt. I don’t know whether to me or to my companion.
“我可以和你一起去吗？”伍德考特先生说。我不知道是对我自己还是对我的同伴。

‘Why, Lord!’ exclaimed Mr. Bucket, taking the answer on himself. ‘Of course you may.’
“为什么，主啊！”巴克特先生大声说道，他自己也得到了答案。 “当然可以。”

It was all said in a moment, and they took me between them, wrapped in the cloak.
一切都在一瞬间说完，他们把我裹在斗篷里夹在他们中间。

‘I have just left Richard,’ said Mr. Woodcourt. ‘I have been sitting with him since ten o’clock last night.’
“我刚刚离开理查德，”伍德考特先生说。 “从昨晚十点开始我就一直和他坐在一起。”

‘Oh, dear me, he is ill!’
“哦，天哪，他病了！”

‘No, no, believe me; not ill, but not quite well. He was depressed and faint—you know he gets so worried and so worn sometimes—and Ada sent to me of course; and when I came home I found her note and came straight here. Well! Richard revived so much after a little while, and Ada was so happy and so convinced of its being my doing, though God knows I had little enough to do with it, that I remained with him until he had been fast asleep some hours. As fast asleep as she is now, I hope!’
‘不，不，相信我；没病，但不太好。他情绪低落、虚弱——你知道他有时会如此担心、如此疲惫——当然，艾达派给了我；当我回到家时，我发现了她的字条，就直接来到了这里。出色地！过了一会儿，理查德就苏醒了很多，艾达非常高兴，也非常确信这是我做的，尽管上帝知道我与这件事无关，所以我一直陪着他，直到他睡了几个小时。我希望她能像现在一样熟睡！”

His friendly and familiar way of speaking of them, his unaffected devotion to them, the grateful confidence with which I knew he had inspired my darling, and the comfort he was to her; could I separate all this from his promise to me? How thankless I must have been if it had not recalled the words he said to me when he was so moved by the change in my appearance: ‘I will accept him as a trust, and it shall be a sacred one!’
他对他们的友善和熟悉的谈论方式，他对他们不做作的忠诚，我知道他激发了我亲爱的感激的信心，以及他对她的安慰;我能把这一切与他对我的承诺分开吗？如果没有想起他被我外表的变化所感动时对我说的话：“我将接受他作为一种信任，这将是一种神圣的信任！”，我该是多么感激不尽啊！

We now turned into another narrow street. ‘Mr. Woodcourt,’ said Mr. Bucket, who had eyed him closely as we came along, ‘our business takes us to a law-stationer’s here, a certain Mr. Snagsby’s. What, you know him, do you?’ He was so quick that he saw it in an instant.
我们现在拐进了另一条狭窄的街道。 '先生。 “伍德考特，”我们走过时，巴克特先生一直密切地注视着他，说道，“我们的生意把我们带到了这里的一个律师事务所，就是斯纳格斯比先生的律师事务所。什么，你认识他吧？”他动作很快，一瞬间就看出来了。

‘Yes, I know a little of him and have called upon him at this place.’
“是的，我对他有一点了解，并且曾到过这个地方拜访过他。”

‘Indeed, sir?’ said Mr. Bucket. ‘Then you will be so good as to let me leave Miss Summerson with you for a moment while I go and have half a word with him?’
“真的吗，先生？”巴克特先生说。 “那你能不能让我把萨默森小姐留在你身边，我去和他说半句话？”

The last police-officer with whom he had conferred was standing silently behind us. I was not aware of it until he struck in on my saying I heard some one crying.
与他交谈的最后一位警察静静地站在我们身后。直到他插嘴说我听到有人在哭，我才意识到这一点。

‘Don’t be alarmed, miss,’ he returned. ‘It’s Snagsby’s servant.’
“别惊慌，小姐，”他回答道。 “这是斯纳斯比的仆人。”

‘Why, you see,’ said Mr. Bucket, ‘the girl’s subject to fits, and has ‘em bad upon her to-night. A most contrary circumstance it is, for I want certain information out of that girl, and she must be brought to reason somehow.’
“哎呀，你看，”巴克特先生说，“这个女孩很容易抽搐，今晚她的症状很糟糕。”这是一个最相反的情况，因为我想从那个女孩那里得到某些信息，而且必须以某种方式让她明白道理。

‘At all events, they wouldn’t be up yet if it wasn’t for her, Mr. Bucket,’ said the other man. ‘She’s been at it pretty well all night, sir.’
“无论如何，如果没有她，他们还不会起床，巴克特先生，”另一个人说道。 “她整个晚上都表现得很好，先生。”

‘Well, that’s true,’ he returned. ‘My light’s burnt out. Show yours a moment.’
“嗯，确实如此，”他回答道。 ‘我的灯烧坏了。展示一下你的。

All this passed in a whisper a door or two from the house in which I could faintly hear crying and moaning. In the little round of light produced for the purpose, Mr. Bucket went up to the door and knocked. The door was opened after he had knocked twice, and he went in, leaving us standing in the street.
这一切都在离房子一两扇门的地方悄悄过去，我隐约能听到里面的哭声和呻吟声。在为此目的而产生的小圆光中，巴克特先生走到门前敲了敲门。他敲了两下门，门开了，他走了进去，留下我们站在街上。

‘Miss Summerson,’ said Mr. Woodcourt, ‘if without obtruding myself on your confidence I may remain near you, pray let me do so.’
“萨默森小姐，”伍德考特先生说，“如果不妨碍您对我的信任，我可以留在您身边，请让我这样做。”

‘You are truly kind,’ I answered. ‘I need wish to keep no secret of my own from you; if I keep any, it is another’s.’
“你真的很善良，”我回答道。 “我不想对你隐瞒我自己的秘密；如果我保留任何东西，那也是别人的。”

‘I quite understand. Trust me, I will remain near you only so long as I can fully respect it.’
‘我很明白。相信我，只要我完全尊重你，我就会留在你身边。

‘I trust implicitly to you,’ I said. ‘I know and deeply feel how sacredly you keep your promise.
“我绝对信任你，”我说。 “我知道并且深深地感受到你是多么神圣地信守诺言。

After a short time the little round of light shone out again, and Mr. Bucket advanced towards us in it with his earnest face. ‘Please to come in, Miss Summerson,’ he said, ‘and sit down by the fire. Mr. Woodcourt, from information I have received I understand you are a medical man. Would you look to this girl and see if anything can be done to bring her round. She has a letter somewhere that I particularly want. It’s not in her box, and I think it must be about her; but she is so twisted and clenched up that she is difficult to handle without hurting.’
过了一会儿，那道小光又亮了，巴克特先生驾着光向我们走来，一脸诚恳。 “请进来，萨默森小姐，”他说，“坐在火边。”伍德考特先生，根据我收到的信息，我了解到您是一名医生。你能不能看看这个女孩，看看能不能做点什么让她苏醒。她在某个地方有一封我特别想要的信。它不在她的盒子里，我想这一定是关于她的；但她是如此扭曲和紧握，很难在不受伤的情况下处理她。

We all three went into the house together; although it was cold and raw, it smelt close too from being up all night. In the passage behind the door stood a scared, sorrowful-looking little man in a grey coat who seemed to have a naturally polite manner and spoke meekly.
我们三个一起进了屋子。尽管天气又冷又生，但由于整夜未睡，闻起来也很接近。门后的过道里站着一个穿着灰色大衣的小个子男人，神情惊恐悲伤，看上去彬彬有礼，说话也很温顺。

‘Downstairs, if you please, Mr. Bucket,’ said he. ‘The lady will excuse the front kitchen; we use it as our workaday sitting-room. The back is Guster’s bedroom, and in it she’s a-carrying on, poor thing, to a frightful extent!’
“请到楼下吧，巴克特先生，”他说。 “这位女士请原谅前厨房；我们用它作为我们的工作客厅。后面是古斯特的卧室，她在里面胡闹，可怜的东西，到了可怕的程度！

We went downstairs, followed by Mr. Snagsby, as I soon found the little man to be. In the front kitchen, sitting by the fire, was Mrs. Snagsby, with very red eyes and a very severe expression of face.
我们下了楼，斯纳斯比先生跟在后面，我很快就发现了这个小个子男人。斯纳斯比太太坐在前厨房的火边，她的眼睛非常红，脸上的表情非常严肃。

‘My little woman,’ said Mr. Snagsby, entering behind us, ‘to wave— not to put too fine a point upon it, my dear—hostilities for one single moment in the course of this prolonged night, here is Inspector Bucket, Mr. Woodcourt, and a lady.’
“我的小女人，”斯纳斯比先生走进我们身后说道，“在这漫长的夜晚里，挥手——不要过分强调这一点，亲爱的——在这漫长的夜晚中，只有一刻的敌对行动，这是巴克特督察，伍德考特先生和一位女士。

She looked very much astonished, as she had reason for doing, and looked particularly hard at me.
她看起来非常惊讶，这是她有理由这样做的，并且特别用力地看着我。

‘My little woman,’ said Mr. Snagsby, sitting down in the remotest corner by the door, as if he were taking a liberty, ‘it is not unlikely that you may inquire of me why Inspector Bucket, Mr. Woodcourt, and a lady call upon us in Cook’s Court, Cursitor Street, at the present hour. I don’t know. I have not the least idea. If I was to be informed, I should despair of understanding, and I’d rather not be told.’
“我的小女人，”斯纳格斯比先生说，他坐在门边最偏僻的角落里，仿佛是在冒昧，“你可能会问我为什么巴克特督察、伍德考特先生和一个女士现在正在库西托街的库克法院拜访我们。我不知道。我一点也不知道。如果我要被告知，我就会对理解感到绝望，而且我宁愿不被告知。

He appeared so miserable, sitting with his head upon his hand, and I appeared so unwelcome, that I was going to offer an apology when Mr. Bucket took the matter on himself.
他用手托着头坐着，看上去很痛苦，而我则显得很不受欢迎，当巴克特先生亲自处理这件事时，我正要道歉。

‘Now, Mr. Snagsby,’ said he, ‘the best thing you can do is to go along with Mr. Woodcourt to look after your Guster—‘
“现在，斯纳格斯比先生，”他说，“你能做的最好的事情就是和伍德考特先生一起去照顾你的古斯特——”

‘My Guster, Mr. Bucket!’ cried Mr. Snagsby. ‘Go on, sir, go on. I shall be charged with that next.’
“我的古斯特，巴克特先生！”斯纳斯比先生喊道。 ‘继续吧，先生，继续吧。接下来我将受到指控。

‘And to hold the candle,’ pursued Mr. Bucket without correcting himself, ‘or hold her, or make yourself useful in any way you’re asked. Which there’s not a man alive more ready to do, for you’re a man of urbanity and suavity, you know, and you’ve got the sort of heart that can feel for another. Mr. Woodcourt, would you be so good as see to her, and if you can get that letter from her, to let me have it as soon as ever you can?’
“并且要举起蜡烛，”巴克特先生没有纠正自己，继续说道，“或者抱住她，或者以任何你被要求的方式让自己变得有用。”没有一个人比你更愿意这样做，因为你是一个彬彬有礼、温文尔雅的人，你知道，而且你有一颗能够同情他人的心。伍德考特先生，您能帮我照顾一下她吗？如果您能从她那里得到那封信，请尽快让我收到？

As they went out, Mr. Bucket made me sit down in a corner by the fire and take off my wet shoes, which he turned up to dry upon the fender, talking all the time.
当他们出去时，巴克特先生让我坐在火边的一个角落里，脱掉湿鞋，然后把鞋翻到挡泥板上晾干，一直在说话。

‘Don’t you be at all put out, miss, by the want of a hospitable look from Mrs. Snagsby there, because she’s under a mistake altogether. She’ll find that out sooner than will be agreeable to a lady of her generally correct manner of forming her thoughts, because I’m a-going to explain it to her.’ Here, standing on the hearth with his wet hat and shawls in his hand, himself a pile of wet, he turned to Mrs. Snagsby. ‘Now, the first thing that I say to you, as a married woman possessing what you may call charms, you know—‘Believe Me, if All Those Endearing,’ and cetrer—you’re well acquainted with the song, because it’s in vain for you to tell me that you and good society are strangers—charms—attractions, mind you, that ought to give you confidence in yourself—is, that you’ve done it.’
“小姐，你别因为斯纳斯比夫人热情好客的目光而感到沮丧，因为她完全犯了一个错误。她会比一位女士更早地发现这一点，因为她通常会以正确的方式形成自己的想法，因为我要向她解释这一点。”在这里，戴着湿帽子和披肩站在壁炉上他手里拿着一堆湿漉漉的东西，他转向斯纳斯比太太。 “现在，我对你说的第一件事，作为一个拥有你所谓的魅力的已婚女人，你知道——‘相信我，如果所有那些可爱的’等等——你很熟悉这首歌，因为它是你告诉我你和上流社会是陌生人——魅力——吸引力，请注意，这应该让你对自己充满信心——是徒劳的，但你已经做到了。

Mrs. Snagsby looked rather alarmed, relented a little and faltered, what did Mr. Bucket mean.
斯纳斯比夫人看起来相当惊慌，态度稍稍缓和了一些，支吾着，巴克特先生的意思是什么？

‘What does Mr. Bucket mean?’ he repeated, and I saw by his face that all the time he talked he was listening for the discovery of the letter, to my own great agitation, for I knew then how important it must be; ‘I’ll tell you what he means, ma’am. Go and see Othello acted. That’s the tragedy for you.’
“巴克特先生是什么意思？”他重复道，我从他的脸上看出，他说话的所有时间里，他都在倾听这封信的发现，我自己也非常激动，因为我当时就知道这封信一定有多么重要；但是，我知道这封信的重要性。 “我会告诉你他的意思，女士。去看奥赛罗的表演。这就是你的悲剧。

Mrs. Snagsby consciously asked why.
斯纳斯比夫人有意识地问为什么。

‘Why?’ said Mr. Bucket. ‘Because you’ll come to that if you don’t look out. Why, at the very moment while I speak, I know what your mind’s not wholly free from respecting this young lady. But shall I tell you who this young lady is? Now, come, you’re what I call an intellectual woman—with your soul too large for your body, if you come to that, and chafing it—and you know me, and you recollect where you saw me last, and what was talked of in that circle. Don’t you? Yes! Very well. This young lady is that young lady.’
“为什么？”巴克特先生说。 ‘因为如果你不留心的话，你就会陷入这样的境地。为什么，就在我说话的那一刻，我知道你心里还没有完全摆脱对这位年轻女士的尊重。但我要告诉你这位年轻女士是谁吗？现在，来吧，你就是我所说的知识分子女人——你的灵魂对于你的身体来说太大了，如果你到了那一步，并摩擦它——你认识我，你记得最后一次见到我的地方，以及我的经历。那个圈子里议论纷纷。你不是吗？是的！很好。这位年轻女士就是那位年轻女士。

Mrs. Snagsby appeared to understand the reference better than I did at the time.
斯纳格斯比夫人当时似乎比我更能理解这个参考资料。

‘And Toughey—him as you call Jo—was mixed up in the same business, and no other; and the law-writer that you know of was mixed up in the same business, and no other; and your husband, with no more knowledge of it than your great grandfather, was mixed up (by Mr. Tulkinghorn, deceased, his best customer) in the same business, and no other; and the whole bileing of people was mixed up in the same business, and no other. And yet a married woman, possessing your attractions, shuts her eyes (and sparklers too), and goes and runs her delicate-formed head against a wall. Why, I am ashamed of you! (I expected Mr. Woodcourt might have got it by this time.)’
“而托伊——你们称呼他为乔——也卷入了同一件事，除此之外没有别的事；你所认识的那位法律作家也从事同一行业，而不是其他行业。而你的丈夫，对这方面的了解并不比你的曾祖父多，他（已故的图尔金霍恩先生，他最好的客户）也参与了同一行，而不是其他行。人们的所有愤怒都集中在同一件事上，而不是其他事情。然而，一个已婚女人，拥有你的吸引力，闭上眼睛（也闭上眼睛），然后把她精致的头靠在墙上。为什么，我为你感到羞耻！ （我预计伍德考特先生此时可能已经明白了。）

Mrs. Snagsby shook her head and put her handkerchief to her eyes.
斯纳斯比太太摇摇头，用手帕捂住眼睛。

‘Is that all?’ said Mr. Bucket excitedly. ‘No. See what happens. Another person mixed up in that business and no other, a person in a wretched state, comes here to-night and is seen a-speaking to your maid-servant; and between her and your maid-servant there passes a paper that I would give a hundred pound for, down. What do you do? You hide and you watch ‘em, and you pounce upon that maid-servant—knowing what she’s subject to and what a little thing will bring ‘em on—in that surprising manner and with that severity that, by the Lord, she goes off and keeps off, when a life may be hanging upon that girl’s words!’
“就这些了吗？”巴克特先生兴奋地说。 '不。走着瞧吧。另一个人卷入了这件事，而不是其他人，一个处于悲惨状态的人，今晚来到这里，被发现正在和你的女仆说话；她和你的女仆之间夹着一张纸，我愿出一百英镑买下。你做什么工作？你躲起来，看着他们，你扑向那个女仆——知道她会遭受什么，也知道一件小事会给他们带来什么——以那种令人惊讶的方式和严厉的方式，主啊，她走了当那个女孩的话可能会危及生命时，请远离！

He so thoroughly meant what he said now that I involuntarily clasped my hands and felt the room turning away from me. But it stopped. Mr. Woodcourt came in, put a paper into his hand, and went away again.
他现在所说的话是如此的认真，以至于我不由自主地握紧了双手，感觉整个房间都在远离我。但它停了下来。伍德考特先生进来了，把一张纸塞到手里，然后又走了。

‘Now, Mrs, Snagsby, the only amends you can make,’ said Mr. Bucket, rapidly glancing at it, ‘is to let me speak a word to this young lady in private here. And if you know of any help that you can give to that gentleman in the next kitchen there or can think of any one thing that’s likelier than another to bring the girl round, do your swiftest and best!’ In an instant she was gone, and he had shut the door. ‘Now my dear, you’re steady and quite sure of yourself?’
“现在，斯纳格斯比夫人，您唯一能做出的补偿，”巴克特先生迅速扫了一眼，说道，“就是让我私下在这里跟这位年轻女士说句话。”如果你知道可以为隔壁厨房里的那位先生提供任何帮助，或者能想到任何一件事比另一件事更有可能让女孩苏醒，请尽你最大的努力！” 转眼间，她就走了，他已经关上了门。 “亲爱的，你现在已经稳定了，对自己很有信心了吗？”

‘Quite,’ said I.
“确实如此，”我说。

‘Whose writing is that?’
“那是谁写的？”

It was my mother’s. A pencil-writing, on a crushed and torn piece of paper, blotted with wet. Folded roughly like a letter, and directed to me at my guardian’s.
这是我母亲的。一张用铅笔写的字，写在一张被压碎、撕破的纸上，上面沾满了湿气。像一封信一样粗略地折叠起来，指向我的监护人。

‘You know the hand,’ he said, ‘and if you are firm enough to read it to me, do! But be particular to a word.’
“你认识这手牌，”他说，“如果你足够坚定，愿意读给我听，那就读吧！”但要特别注意一个词。

It had been written in portions, at different times. I read what follows:
它是在不同时间分部分写成的。我读了以下内容：

‘I came to the cottage with two objects. First, to see the dear one, if I could, once more—but only to see her—not to speak to her or let her know that I was near. The other object, to elude pursuit and to be lost. Do not blame the mother for her share. The assistance that she rendered me, she rendered on my strongest assurance that it was for the dear one’s good. You remember her dead child. The men’s consent I bought, but her help was freely given.’
“我带着两件东西来到小屋。首先，如果可以的话，再次见到亲爱的人——但只是见她——而不是和她说话或让她知道我就在附近。另一个目的是逃避追捕并迷失方向。不要责怪母亲的份额。她向我提供的帮助，是为了我亲爱的人的利益而提供的。你记得她死去的孩子。我买了男人的同意，但她的帮助是无偿的。

‘‘I came.’ That was written,’ said my companion, ‘when she rested there. It bears out what I made of it. I was right.’
“我来了。”我的同伴说，“当她在那里休息时，上面写着。”它证实了我的想法。我是对的。'

The next was written at another time:
下一篇是在另一个时间写的：

‘I have wandered a long distance, and for many hours, and I know that I must soon die. These streets! I have no purpose but to die. When I left, I had a worse, but I am saved from adding that guilt to the rest. Cold, wet, and fatigue are sufficient causes for my being found dead, but I shall die of others, though I suffer from these. It was right that all that had sustained me should give way at once and that I should die of terror and my conscience.
“我已经流浪了很长一段距离，而且已经走了好几个小时，我知道我很快就会死去。这些街道！我没有任何目的，除了死。当我离开时，我的情况变得更糟，但我免于将这种负罪感添加到其他事情中。寒冷、潮湿和疲劳足以导致我死亡，但我会死于其他人，尽管我患有这些。支撑我的一切都应该立刻消失，我应该死于恐惧和良心，这是正确的。

‘Take courage,’ said Mr. Bucket. ‘There’s only a few words more.’
“鼓起勇气，”巴克特先生说。 “只剩下几句话了。”

Those, too, were written at another time. To all appearance, almost in the dark:
这些也是在另一个时间写的。从表面上看，几乎是在黑暗中：

‘I have done all I could do to be lost. I shall be soon forgotten so, and shall disgrace him least. I have nothing about me by which I can be recognized. This paper I part with now. The place where I shall lie down, if I can get so far, has been often in my mind. Farewell. Forgive.’
‘为了迷失，我已竭尽全力。我很快就会被遗忘，也不会令他蒙羞。我没有任何可以让别人认出我的东西。我现在放弃这篇论文。如果我能走得这么远，我应该躺下的地方常常在我的脑海里。告别。原谅。'

Mr. Bucket, supporting me with his arm, lowered me gently into my chair. ‘Cheer up! Don’t think me hard with you, my dear, but as soon as ever you feel equal to it, get your shoes on and be ready.’
巴克特先生用手臂支撑着我，轻轻地将我放到椅子上。 '开心点！别以为我对你很严厉，亲爱的，但一旦你觉得自己可以承受，就穿上鞋子做好准备。

I did as he required, but I was left there a long time, praying for my unhappy mother. They were all occupied with the poor girl, and I heard Mr. Woodcourt directing them and speaking to her often. At length he came in with Mr. Bucket and said that as it was important to address her gently, he thought it best that I should ask her for whatever information we desired to obtain. There was no doubt that she could now reply to questions if she were soothed and not alarmed. The questions, Mr. Bucket said, were how she came by the letter, what passed between her and the person who gave her the letter, and where the person went. Holding my mind as steadily as I could to these points, I went into the next room with them. Mr. Woodcourt would have remained outside, but at my solicitation went in with us.
我按照他的要求做了，但我被留在那里很长一段时间，为我不幸的母亲祈祷。他们都忙着照顾这个可怜的女孩，我听到伍德考特先生经常指挥他们并与她说话。最后，他和巴克特先生一起进来，说因为温柔地对待她很重要，所以他认为我最好向她询问我们想要获得的任何信息。毫无疑问，如果她得到安抚而不惊慌，她现在可以回答问题了。巴克特说，问题是她是如何收到这封信的，她和给她信的人之间传递了什么，以及这个人去了哪里。我尽可能稳定地思考这些问题，然后和他们一起走进了隔壁的房间。伍德考特先生本来应该留在外面，但在我的恳求下和我们一起进去了。

The poor girl was sitting on the floor where they had laid her down. They stood around her, though at a little distance, that she might have air. She was not pretty and looked weak and poor, but she had a plaintive and a good face, though it was still a little wild. I kneeled on the ground beside her and put her poor head upon my shoulder, whereupon she drew her arm round my neck and burst into tears.
可怜的女孩正坐在他们放她的地板上。他们站在她周围，虽然距离有点远，以便她呼吸空气。她长得并不漂亮，看上去又弱又穷，但她的脸却哀怨又好看，虽然还是有些野性。我跪在她身边的地上，把她可怜的头靠在我的肩上，她用手臂搂住我的脖子，放声大哭。

‘My poor girl,’ said I, laying my face against her forehead, for indeed I was crying too, and trembling, ‘it seems cruel to trouble you now, but more depends on our knowing something about this letter than I could tell you in an hour.’
“我可怜的女孩，”我说，把脸贴在她的额头上，因为我确实也在哭，而且浑身发抖，“现在麻烦你似乎很残忍，但更多的是取决于我们对这封信的了解，而不是我能告诉你的一个小时内。'

She began piteously declaring that she didn’t mean any harm, she didn’t mean any harm, Mrs. Snagsby!
她开始可怜兮兮地宣称她没有任何恶意，她没有任何恶意，斯纳斯比太太！

‘We are all sure of that,’ said I. ‘But pray tell me how you got it.’
“我们都确信这一点，”我说，“但请告诉我你是怎么得到它的。”

‘Yes, dear lady, I will, and tell you true. I’ll tell true, indeed, Mrs. Snagsby.’
“是的，亲爱的女士，我会的，而且实话实说。我实话实说，斯纳斯比夫人。

‘I am sure of that,’ said I. ‘And how was it?’
“我确信这一点，”我说，“怎么样？”

‘I had been out on an errand, dear lady—long after it was dark— quite late; and when I came home, I found a common-looking person, all wet and muddy, looking up at our house. When she saw me coming in at the door, she called me back and said did I live here. And I said yes, and she said she knew only one or two places about here, but had lost her way and couldn’t find them. Oh, what shall I do, what shall I do! They won’t believe me! She didn’t say any harm to me, and I didn’t say any harm to her, indeed, Mrs. Snagsby!’
“亲爱的女士，我出去办事了——天黑很久了——很晚了；当我回到家时，我发现一个长相普通的人，浑身湿透，浑身泥泞，抬头看着我们的房子。当她看到我走进门口时，她给我回了电话，说我住在这里吗？我说是的，她说她只知道这里的一两个地方，但迷路了，找不到它们。唉，我该怎么办，我该怎么办啊！他们不会相信我的！她没有说任何伤害我的话，我也没有说任何伤害她的话，斯纳斯比太太！

It was necessary for her mistress to comfort her—which she did, I must say, with a good deal of contrition—before she could be got beyond this.
她的女主人有必要安慰她——我必须说，她是带着很大的悔悟来安慰她的——然后她才能摆脱这一切。

‘She could not find those places,’ said I.
“她找不到那些地方，”我说。

‘No!’ cried the girl, shaking her head. ‘No! Couldn’t find them. And she was so faint, and lame, and miserable, Oh so wretched, that if you had seen her, Mr. Snagsby, you’d have given her half a crown, I know!’
“不！”女孩摇着头喊道。 '不！找不到他们。她是如此虚弱、跛脚、悲惨，哦，如此可怜，斯纳斯比先生，如果你看到她，你就会给她半个克朗，我知道！

‘Well, Guster, my girl,’ said he, at first not knowing what to say. ‘I hope I should.’
“好吧，古斯特，我的女儿，”他说道，一开始不知道该说什么。 “我希望我应该这么做。”

‘And yet she was so well spoken,’ said the girl, looking at me with wide open eyes, ‘that it made a person’s heart bleed. And so she said to me, did I know the way to the burying ground? And I asked her which burying ground. And she said, the poor burying ground. And so I told her I had been a poor child myself, and it was according to parishes. But she said she meant a poor burying ground not very far from here, where there was an archway, and a step, and an iron gate.’
“但她说得那么好，”女孩睁大眼睛看着我说，“让人心都在流血。”于是她对我说，我知道去墓地的路吗？我问她哪个墓地。她说，可怜的墓地。所以我告诉她我自己也是一个穷孩子，这是根据教区的说法。但她说她指的是离这里不远的一个简陋的墓地，那里有一个拱门、一个台阶和一扇铁门。

As I watched her face and soothed her to go on, I saw that Mr. Bucket received this with a look which I could not separate from one of alarm.
当我看着她的脸并安抚她继续说下去时，我看到巴克特先生用一种我无法从惊慌中分离出来的表情接受了这句话。

‘Oh, dear, dear!’ cried the girl, pressing her hair back with her hands. ‘What shall I do, what shall I do! She meant the burying ground where the man was buried that took the sleeping-stuff—that you came home and told us of, Mr. Snagsby—that frightened me so, Mrs. Snagsby. Oh, I am frightened again. Hold me!’
“噢，天哪，天哪！”女孩大声喊道，用手把头发往后拢。 ‘我该怎么办，我该怎么办！她指的是埋葬那个拿走睡眠用品的人的墓地——你回家告诉我们的，斯纳格斯比先生——这让我很害怕，斯纳格斯比太太。唉，我又害怕了。抱紧我！'

‘You are so much better now,’ sald I. ‘Pray, pray tell me more.’
“你现在好多了，”我说道，“祈祷，祈祷告诉我更多。”

‘Yes I will, yes I will! But don’t be angry with me, that’s a dear lady, because I have been so ill.’
‘是的，我会的，是的，我会的！但别生我的气，那是一位亲爱的女士，因为我病得很厉害。”

Angry with her, poor soul!
生她的气，可怜的灵魂！

‘There! Now I will, now I will. So she said, could I tell her how to find it, and I said yes, and I told her; and she looked at me with eyes like almost as if she was blind, and herself all waving back. And so she took out the letter, and showed it me, and said if she was to put that in the post-office, it would be rubbed out and not minded and never sent; and would I take it from her, and send it, and the messenger would be paid at the house. And so I said yes, if it was no harm, and she said no—no harm. And so I took it from her, and she said she had nothing to give me, and I said I was poor myself and consequently wanted nothing. And so she said God bless you, and went.’
'那里！现在我会了，现在我会了。所以她说，我可以告诉她如何找到它吗？我说可以，然后我告诉了她；她用几乎瞎子般的眼神看着我，同时也向我招手。于是她拿出那封信给我看，并说如果她把它放进邮局，它就会被擦掉，不会在意，也永远不会寄出去；但她却把它扔进了邮局。我会从她那里拿走它并寄出它，而使者将在家里得到报酬。所以我说是的，如果没有伤害的话，她说不——没有伤害。于是我从她手中夺走了它，她说她没有什么可以给我的，我说我自己很穷，因此什么也不想要。所以她说愿上帝保佑你，然后就走了。

‘And did she go—‘
“她有没有去——”

‘Yes,’ cried the girl, anticipating the inquiry. ‘Yes! She went the way I had shown her. Then I came in, and Mrs. Snagsby came behind me from somewhere and laid hold of me, and I was frightened.’
“是的，”女孩喊道，期待着询问。 '是的！她按照我向她展示的方式走了。然后我进来了，斯纳斯比夫人从什么地方来到我身后，抓住了我，我很害怕。

Mr. Woodcourt took her kindly from me. Mr. Bucket wrapped me up, and immediately we were in the street. Mr. Woodcourt hesitated, but I said, ‘Don’t leave me now!’ and Mr. Bucket added, ‘You’ll be better with us, we may want you; don’t lose time!’
伍德考特先生好心地把她从我身边接走。巴克特先生把我包起来，我们立刻就到了街上。伍德考特先生犹豫了，但我说，“现在别离开我！”巴克特先生补充道，“你和我们在一起会更好，我们可能需要你；但我们需要你。”不要浪费时间！

I have the most confused impressions of that walk. I recollect that it was neither night nor day, that morning was dawning but the street-lamps were not yet put out, that the sleet was still falling and that all the ways were deep with it. I recollect a few chilled people passing in the streets. I recollect the wet house-tops, the clogged and bursting gutters and water-spouts, the mounds of blackened ice and snow over which we passed, the narrowness of the courts by which we went. At the same time I remember that the poor girl seemed to be yet telling her story audibly and plainly in my hearing, that I could feel her resting on my arm, that the stained house-fronts put on human shapes and looked at me, that great water-gates seemed to be opening and closing in my head or in the air, and that the unreal things were more substantial than the real.
那次散步给我的印象最混乱。我记得当时不是黑夜，也不是白天，黎明时分，路灯还没有熄灭，雨夹雪还在下，所有的道路都被雨深深地覆盖着。我记得街上有几个冷漠的人经过。我记得潮湿的屋顶，堵塞和爆裂的排水沟和龙卷风，我们经过的黑色冰雪堆，我们走过的狭窄庭院。与此同时，我记得那个可怜的女孩似乎还在我的耳边清晰地讲述着她的故事，我能感觉到她靠在我的手臂上，污迹斑斑的房屋正面变成了人形，看着我，巨大的水门似乎在我的脑海或空中打开和关闭，虚幻的事物比真实的事物更真实。

At last we stood under a dark and miserable covered way, where one lamp was burning over an iron gate and where the morning faintly struggled in. The gate was closed. Beyond it was a burial ground —a dreadful spot in which the night was very slowly stirring, but where I could dimly see heaps of dishonoured graves and stones, hemmed in by filthy houses with a few dull lights in their windows and on whose walls a thick humidity broke out like a disease. On the step at the gate, drenched in the fearful wet of such a place, which oozed and splashed down everywhere, I saw, with a cry of pity and horror, a woman lying—Jenny, the mother of the dead child.
最后，我们站在一条阴暗而破败的小道下，铁门上点着一盏灯，晨曦微弱地袭来。铁门关着。越过它是一个墓地——一个可怕的地方，夜色正在慢慢地搅动，但我隐约可以看到成堆的不光彩的坟墓和石头，周围是肮脏的房子，窗户里有几盏昏暗的灯光，墙壁上有浓浓的湿气像一种疾病一样爆发了。在门口的台阶上，这个地方的可怕的湿气浸透了，到处都是渗水和溅落的地方，我看到，带着怜悯和恐惧的呼喊，躺着一个女人——珍妮，死孩子的母亲。

I ran forward, but they stopped me, and Mr. Woodcourt entreated me with the greatest earnestness, even with tears, before I went up to the figure to listen for an instant to what Mr. Bucket said. I did so, as I thought. I did so, as I am sure.
我向前跑去，但他们拦住了我，伍德考特先生非常诚恳地恳求我，甚至流着泪，然后我走到人物面前，暂时听听巴克特先生说的话。我就这么做了，正如我所想的那样。我确实这样做了。

‘Miss Summerson, you’ll understand me, if you think a moment. They changed clothes at the cottage.’
“萨默森小姐，如果你想一下，你就会明白我的意思。他们在小屋里换了衣服。

They changed clothes at the cottage. I could repeat the words in my mind, and I knew what they meant of themselves, but I attached no meaning to them in any other connexion.
他们在小屋里换了衣服。我可以在心里重复这些话，而且我知道它们本身的含义，但我对它们没有任何其他联系的意义。

‘And one returned,’ said Mr. Bucket, ‘and one went on. And the one that went on only went on a certain way agreed upon to deceive and then turned across country and went home. Think a moment!’
“一只回来了，”巴克特先生说，“一只继续走。”而那个继续前进的人只是沿着同意欺骗的某种方式前进，然后穿越乡村回家了。想一想！’

I could repeat this in my mind too, but I had not the least idea what it meant. I saw before me, lying on the step, the mother of the dead child. She lay there with one arm creeping round a bar of the iron gate and seeming to embrace it. She lay there, who had so lately spoken to my mother. She lay there, a distressed, unsheltered, senseless creature. She who had brought my mother’s letter, who could give me the only clue to where my mother was; she, who was to guide us to rescue and save her whom we had sought so far, who had come to this condition by some means connected with my mother that I could not follow, and might be passing beyond our reach and help at that moment; she lay there, and they stopped me! I saw but did not comprehend the solemn and compassionate look in Mr. Woodcourt’s face. I saw but did not comprehend his touching the other on the breast to keep him back. I saw him stand uncovered in the bitter air, with a reverence for something. But my understanding for all this was gone.
我也可以在心里重复这句话，但我完全不知道这意味着什么。我看到我面前的台阶上躺着死去孩子的母亲。她躺在那里，一只手臂爬过铁门的一根栅栏，似乎正在拥抱它。她躺在那里，最近才和我母亲说过话。她躺在那里，一个痛苦、无家可归、毫无知觉的生物。她带来了我母亲的信，她能给我关于我母亲在哪里的唯一线索；她，引导我们去营救和拯救我们迄今为止一直在寻找的她，她通过某种与我母亲有关的方式来到了这种境地，我无法跟随，并且在那一刻可能超出了我们的能力和帮助;她躺在那里，他们阻止了我！我看到了伍德考特先生脸上严肃而富有同情心的表情，但不明白。我看到但不明白他触碰对方的乳房以阻止他。我看到他赤身裸体地站在寒冷的空气中，带着对某种事物的敬畏。但我对这一切的理解已经消失了。

I even heard it said between them, ‘Shall she go?’
我什至听到他们之间说：“她要走吗？”

‘She had better go. Her hands should be the first to touch her. They have a higher right than ours.’
‘她最好走吧。她的手应该是第一个触摸她的人。他们拥有比我们更高的权利。

I passed on to the gate and stooped down. I lifted the heavy head, put the long dank hair aside, and turned the face. And it was my mother, cold and dead.
我走到门口，弯下腰。我抬起沉重的头，把湿漉漉的长发拨到一边，转过脸去。那是我的母亲，冰冷而死了。

CHAPTER LX
第六章


Perspective
看法

I proceed to other passages of my narrative. From the goodness of all about me I derived such consolation as I can never think of unmoved. I have already said so much of myself, and so much still remains, that I will not dwell upon my sorrow. I had an illness, but it was not a long one; and I would avoid even this mention of it if I could quite keep down the recollection of their sympathy.
我继续讲述我的叙述的其他段落。从我周围一切的善良中，我得到了这样的安慰，我从来没有想过不感动。我已经说了很多关于我自己的事，还有很多话要说，所以我不会再详述我的悲伤。我生了一场病，但病的时间不长；如果我能完全不去回忆起他们的同情的话，我什至会避免提及此事。

I proceed to other passages of my narrative.
我继续讲述我的叙述的其他段落。

During the time of my illness, we were still in London, where Mrs. Woodcourt had come, on my guardian’s invitation, to stay with us. When my guardian thought me well and cheerful enough to talk with him in our old way—though I could have done that sooner if he would have believed me—I resumed my work and my chair beside his. He had appointed the time himself, and we were alone.
我生病期间，我们仍在伦敦，伍德考特夫人应我监护人的邀请来到伦敦和我们住在一起。当我的监护人认为我身体健康，心情愉快，可以用我们以前的方式与他交谈时——尽管如果他相信我的话，我可以早点这样做——我继续工作，把椅子放在他旁边。他自己指定了时间，只有我们两个人。

‘Dame Trot,’ said he, receiving me with a kiss, ‘welcome to the growlery again, my dear. I have a scheme to develop, little woman. I propose to remain here, perhaps for six months, perhaps for a longer time—as it may be. Quite to settle here for a while, in short.’
“特洛特夫人，”他一边吻着我一边说道，“欢迎再次来到咆哮声，亲爱的。我有一个计划要制定，小女人。我建议留在这里，也许是六个月，也许是更长的时间——视情况而定。简而言之，很想在这里定居一段时间。

‘And in the meanwhile leave Bleak House?’ said I.
“同时离开荒凉山庄？”我说道。

‘Aye, my dear? Bleak House,’ he returned, ‘must learn to take care of itself.’
‘是吗，亲爱的？ “荒凉山庄，”他回答道，“必须学会照顾自己。”

I thought his tone sounded sorrowful, but looking at him, I saw his kind face lighted up by its pleasantest smile.
我以为他的语气听起来很悲伤，但看着他，我看到他慈祥的脸上绽放着最愉快的笑容。

‘Bleak House,’ he repeated—and his tone did NOT sound sorrowful, I found—‘must learn to take care of itself. It is a long way from Ada, my dear, and Ada stands much in need of you.’
“荒凉山庄，”他重复道——我发现他的语气听起来并不悲伤——“必须学会照顾自己。”亲爱的，离艾达很远，艾达非常需要你。

‘It’s like you, guardian,’ said I, ‘to have been taking that into consideration for a happy surprise to both of us.’
“就像你一样，监护人，”我说，“你已经考虑到了这一点，为我们俩带来了惊喜。”

‘Not so disinterested either, my dear, if you mean to extol me for that virtue, since if you were generally on the road, you could be seldom with me. And besides, I wish to hear as much and as often of Ada as I can in this condition of estrangement from poor Rick. Not of her alone, but of him too, poor fellow.’
“亲爱的，如果你想赞扬我的美德，那也不是那么无私，因为如果你经常在路上，你就很少能和我在一起。此外，在与可怜的瑞克疏远的情况下，我希望尽可能多、尽可能多地听到艾达的消息。不仅仅是她一个人，还有他，可怜的家伙。

‘Have you seen Mr. Woodcourt, this morning, guardian?’
“监护人，今天早上你见过伍德考特先生吗？”

‘I see Mr. Woodcourt every morning, Dame Durden.’
“我每天早上都会见到伍德考特先生，德登夫人。”

‘Does he still say the same of Richard?’
“他对理查德还这么说吗？”

‘Just the same. He knows of no direct bodily illness that he has; on the contrary, he believes that he has none. Yet he is not easy about him; who CAN be?’
” “就是一样。他不知道自己有任何直接的身体疾病；相反，他认为自己没有。然而他对他并不容易；谁可以是？

My dear girl had been to see us lately every day, some times twice in a day. But we had foreseen, all along, that this would only last until I was quite myself. We knew full well that her fervent heart was as full of affection and gratitude towards her cousin John as it had ever been, and we acquitted Richard of laying any injunctions upon her to stay away; but we knew on the other hand that she felt it a part of her duty to him to be sparing of her visits at our house. My guardian’s delicacy had soon perceived this and had tried to convey to her that he thought she was right.
我亲爱的女儿最近每天都来看我们，有时一天两次。但我们一直都预见到，这种情况只会持续到我恢复正常为止。我们非常清楚，她的热情对她的表弟约翰一如既往地充满了感情和感激之情，我们宣告理查德没有对她施加任何禁止她离开的禁令。但另一方面我们知道，她认为不去我们家拜访是她对他的责任的一部分。我的监护人很快就察觉到了这一点，并试图向她传达他认为她是对的。

‘Dear, unfortunate, mistaken Richard,’ said I. ‘When will he awake from his delusion!’
“亲爱的，不幸的，误会的理查德，”我说，“他什么时候才能从他的妄想中醒来！”

‘He is not in the way to do so now, my dear,’ replied my guardian. ‘The more he suffers, the more averse he will be to me, having made me the principal representative of the great occasion of his suffering.’
“亲爱的，他现在不能这样做，”我的监护人回答道。 “他受的苦越多，他就越厌恶我，因为我让我成为了他受苦的重大事件的主要代表。”

I could not help adding, ‘So unreasonably!’
我忍不住补充道：“太不合理了！”

‘Ah, Dame Trot, Dame Trot,’ returned my guardian, ‘what shall we find reasonable in Jarndyce and Jarndyce! Unreason and injustice at the top, unreason and injustice at the heart and at the bottom, unreason and injustice from beginning to end—if it ever has an end—how should poor Rick, always hovering near it, pluck reason out of it? He no more gathers grapes from thorns or figs from thistles than older men did in old times.’
“啊，特洛特夫人，特洛特夫人，”我的监护人回答道，“我们在贾迪斯和贾迪斯身上能找到什么合理的东西！”上层的不合理和不公正，内心和底层的不合理和不公正，自始至终的不合理和不公正——如果它有终结的话——总是徘徊在它附近的可怜的瑞克该如何从中剔除理性呢？他不再像古代的老年人那样从荆棘中采集葡萄，或从蓟中采集无花果。

His gentleness and consideration for Richard whenever we spoke of him touched me so that I was always silent on this subject very soon.
每当我们谈到理查德时，他的温柔和体贴都让我感动，所以我很快就在这个话题上保持沉默。

‘I suppose the Lord Chancellor, and the Vice Chancellors, and the whole Chancery battery of great guns would be infinitely astonished by such unreason and injustice in one of their suitors,’ pursued my guardian. ‘When those learned gentlemen begin to raise moss-roses from the powder they sow in their wigs, I shall begin to be astonished too!’
“我想大法官、副大法官以及整个大法官法庭的大炮们都会对他们的追求者之一的这种不理智和不公正感到无比惊讶，”我的监护人继续说道。 “当那些博学的绅士开始用他们在假发中撒下的粉末种植苔藓玫瑰时，我也会开始感到惊讶！”

He checked himself in glancing towards the window to look where the wind was and leaned on the back of my chair instead.
他停下来，朝窗户看了一眼，看看风在哪里，然后靠在了我的椅背上。

‘Well, well, little woman! To go on, my dear. This rock we must leave to time, chance, and hopeful circumstance. We must not shipwreck Ada upon it. She cannot afford, and he cannot afford, the remotest chance of another separation from a friend. Therefore I have particularly begged of Woodcourt, and I now particularly beg of you, my dear, not to move this subject with Rick. Let it rest. Next week, next month, next year, sooner or later, he will see me with clearer eyes. I can wait.’
‘好啦好啦，小女人！继续前进，亲爱的。我们必须把这块石头留给时间、机遇和充满希望的环境。我们决不能让艾达沉船在上面。她无法承受，他也无法承受与朋友再次分离的哪怕一丝一毫的可能性。因此，我特别恳求伍德考特，现在我也特别恳求你，亲爱的，不要向里克转移这个话题。让它休息吧。下周，下个月，明年，迟早，他会用更清晰的眼睛看到我。我可以等。'

But I had already discussed it with him, I confessed; and so, I thought, had Mr. Woodcourt.
但我承认，我已经和他讨论过了。我想，伍德考特先生也是如此。

‘So he tells me,’ returned my guardian. ‘Very good. He has made his protest, and Dame Durden has made hers, and there is nothing more to be said about it. Now I come to Mrs. Woodcourt. How do you like her, my dear?’
“他是这么告​​诉我的，”我的监护人回答道。 '非常好。他已经提出了抗议，德登夫人也提出了她的抗议，对此没有什么可说的了。现在我来谈谈伍德考特夫人。你觉得她怎么样，亲爱的？

In answer to this question, which was oddly abrupt, I said I liked her very much and thought she was more agreeable than she used to be.
在回答这个奇怪的唐突问题时，我说我非常喜欢她，并认为她比以前更讨人喜欢了。

‘I think so too,’ said my guardian. ‘Less pedigree? Not so much of Morgan ap—what’s his name?’
“我也这么认为，”我的监护人说。 ‘血统更少？不太像摩根·阿普——他叫什么名字？

That was what I meant, I acknowledged, though he was a very harmless person, even when we had had more of him.
我承认，这就是我的意思，尽管他是一个非常无害的人，即使我们有更多的他。

‘Still, upon the whole, he is as well in his native mountains,’ said my guardian. ‘I agree with you. Then, little woman, can I do better for a time than retain Mrs. Woodcourt here?’
“不过，总的来说，他还是在家乡的山里，”我的监护人说。 '我同意你的看法。那么，小女人，我能暂时把伍德考特夫人留在这里更好吗？

No. And yet—
不。然而——

My guardian looked at me, waiting for what I had to say.
我的监护人看着我，等待我要说的话。

I had nothing to say. At least I had nothing in my mind that I could say. I had an undefined impression that it might have been better if we had had some other inmate, but I could hardly have explained why even to myself. Or, if to myself, certainly not to anybody else.
我无话可说。至少我心里没什么可说的。我有一种不明确的印象，如果我们有其他囚犯可能会更好，但我什至无法向自己解释为什么。或者，如果是对我自己，当然不是对其他人。

‘You see,’ said my guardian, ‘our neighbourhood is in Woodcourt’s way, and he can come here to see her as often as he likes, which is agreeable to them both; and she is familiar to us and fond of you.’
“你看，”我的监护人说，“我们的邻居妨碍了伍德考特，他可以随时来这里看望她，这对他们俩来说都是很高兴的；她对我们来说很熟悉并且喜欢你。

Yes. That was undeniable. I had nothing to say against it. I could not have suggested a better arrangement, but I was not quite easy in my mind. Esther, Esther, why not? Esther, think!
是的。这是不可否认的。我对此无话可说。我无法提出更好的安排，但我心里不太轻松。以斯帖，以斯帖，为什么不呢？以斯帖，想一想！

‘It is a very good plan indeed, dear guardian, and we could not do better.’
“这确实是一个非常好的计划，亲爱的监护人，我们不能做得更好。”

‘Sure, little woman?’
“当然可以，小女人？”

Quite sure. I had had a moment’s time to think, since I had urged that duty on myself, and I was quite sure.
非常肯定。自从我敦促自己承担起这项责任以来，我花了一点时间思考，而且我非常确定。

‘Good,’ said my guardian. ‘It shall be done. Carried unanimously.’
“很好，”我的监护人说。 ‘一定会完成的。一致通过。

‘Carried unanimously,’ I repeated, going on with my work.
“一致通过，”我重复道，继续我的工作。

It was a cover for his book-table that I happened to be ornamenting. It had been laid by on the night preceding my sad journey and never resumed. I showed it to him now, and he admired it highly. After I had explained the pattern to him and all the great effects that were to come out by and by, I thought I would go back to our last theme.
这是我碰巧装饰的他的书桌封面。它在我悲伤旅程的前一天晚上就被搁置了，再也没有恢复过。我现在拿给他看，他非常欣赏。在我向他解释了这个模式以及所有即将出现的伟大效果之后，我想我应该回到我们的上一个主题。

‘You said, dear guardian, when we spoke of Mr. Woodcourt before Ada left us, that you thought he would give a long trial to another country. Have you been advising him since?’
“亲爱的监护人，当我们在艾达离开我们之前谈到伍德考特先生时，您说您认为他会去另一个国家进行长期审判。从那以后你一直在给他提供建议吗？

‘Yes, little woman, pretty often.’
“是的，小女人，经常这样。”

‘Has he decided to do so?’
“他决定这么做了吗？”

‘I rather think not.’
“我宁愿不这么认为。”

‘Some other prospect has opened to him, perhaps?’ said I.
“也许他已经看到了其他的前景？”我说。

‘Why—yes—perhaps,’ returned my guardian, beginning his answer in a very deliberate manner. ‘About half a year hence or so, there is a medical attendant for the poor to be appointed at a certain place in Yorkshire. It is a thriving place, pleasantly situated—streams and streets, town and country, mill and moor—and seems to present an opening for such a man. I mean a man whose hopes and aims may sometimes lie (as most men’s sometimes do, I dare say) above the ordinary level, but to whom the ordinary level will be high enough after all if it should prove to be a way of usefulness and good service leading to no other. All generous spirits are ambitious, I suppose, but the ambition that calmly trusts itself to such a road, instead of spasmodically trying to fly over it, is of the kind I care for. It is Woodcourt’s kind.’
“为什么——是的——也许吧，”我的监护人回答道，他以一种非常从容的方式开始回答。大约半年后，约克郡的某个地方将任命一名穷人医务人员。这是一个繁荣的地方，地理位置宜人——溪流和街道，城镇和乡村，磨坊和沼泽——似乎为这样的人提供了一个机会。我的意思是一个人的希望和目标有时可能高于普通水平（我敢说，大多数人有时会这样做），但如果它被证明是一种有用的方式，那么普通水平毕竟足够高了。良好的服务导致没有其他。我想，所有慷慨的人都是雄心勃勃的，但平静地相信自己走上这条路，而不是断断续续地试图飞越它的雄心，正是我所关心的。这是伍德考特的那种。”

‘And will he get this appointment?’ I asked.
“他会得到这个任命吗？”我问。

‘Why, little woman,’ returned my guardian, smiling, ‘not being an oracle, I cannot confidently say, but I think so. His reputation stands very high; there were people from that part of the country in the shipwreck; and strange to say, I believe the best man has the best chance. You must not suppose it to be a fine endowment. It is a very, very commonplace affair, my dear, an appointment to a great amount of work and a small amount of pay; but better things will gather about it, it may be fairly hoped.’
“为什么，小女人，”我的监护人微笑着回答道，“我不能自信地说，这不是神谕，但我想是的。他的声誉很高；沉船中的人来自该国那个地区；奇怪的是，我相信最好的人有最好的机会。你一定不能认为这是一笔很好的捐赠。亲爱的，这是一件非常非常平常的事情，约定做大量的工作，但报酬却很少。但更好的事情将会聚集在它周围，这可能是相当有希望的。

‘The poor of that place will have reason to bless the choice if it falls on Mr. Woodcourt, guardian.’
“如果这个选择落在监护人伍德考特先生身上，那地方的穷人将有理由祝福这个选择。”

‘You are right, little woman; that I am sure they will.’
‘你是对的，小女人；我相信他们会的。

We said no more about it, nor did he say a word about the future of Bleak House. But it was the first time I had taken my seat at his side in my mourning dress, and that accounted for it, I considered.
我们没有再谈论此事，他也没有提及《荒凉山庄》的未来。但这是我第一次穿着丧服坐在他身边，我想这就是原因。

I now began to visit my dear girl every day in the dull dark corner where she lived. The morning was my usual time, but whenever I found I had an hour or so to spare, I put on my bonnet and bustled off to Chancery Lane. They were both so glad to see me at all hours, and used to brighten up so when they heard me opening the door and coming in (being quite at home, I never knocked), that I had no fear of becoming troublesome just yet.
现在我开始每天去我亲爱的女儿住的那个阴暗的角落看望她。早上是我平常的时间，但每当我发现有一个小时左右的空闲时间时，我就会戴上帽子，匆匆赶往大法官巷。他们总是很高兴见到我，而且常常高兴起来，所以当他们听到我开门进来时（我很自在，从来不敲门），所以我还不用担心会带来麻烦。

On these occasions I frequently found Richard absent. At other times he would be writing or reading papers in the cause at that table of his, so covered with papers, which was never disturbed. Sometimes I would come upon him lingering at the door of Mr. Vholes’s office. Sometimes I would meet him in the neighbourhood lounging about and biting his nails. I often met him wandering in Lincoln’s Inn, near the place where I had first seen him, oh how different, how different!
在这些场合，我经常发现理查德缺席。其他时候，他会在他那张桌子上写或读有关事业的论文，桌子上铺满了文件，从来没有受到打扰。有时我会遇见他在沃尔斯先生的办公室门口徘徊。有时我会在附近遇到他，他正在闲逛，咬着指甲。我经常在林肯律师学院遇见他，就在我第一次见到他的地方附近，哦，多么不同，多么不同！

That the money Ada brought him was melting away with the candles I used to see burning after dark in Mr. Vholes’s office I knew very well. It was not a large amount in the beginning, he had married in debt, and I could not fail to understand, by this time, what was meant by Mr. Vholes’s shoulder being at the wheel—as I still heard it was. My dear made the best of housekeepers and tried hard to save, but I knew that they were getting poorer and poorer every day.
艾达给他带来的钱正随着天黑后在沃尔斯先生办公室里燃烧的蜡烛一起融化，这一点我非常清楚。一开始这笔钱并不多，他是负债累累地结婚的，到了这个时候，我不可能不明白沃尔斯先生的肩膀负责开车是什么意思——就像我仍然听说的那样。亲爱的管家尽力了，努力攒钱，但我知道他们一天天变得越来越穷。

She shone in the miserable corner like a beautiful star. She adorned and graced it so that it became another place. Paler than she had been at home, and a little quieter than I had thought natural when she was yet so cheerful and hopeful, her face was so unshadowed that I half believed she was blinded by her love for Richard to his ruinous career.
她就像一颗美丽的星星，在悲惨的角落里闪闪发光。她装饰它，使它变得优雅，使它成为另一个地方。她比在家里时更苍白，比我想象的更安静，因为她仍然那么快乐和充满希望，她的脸是如此的没有阴影，我几乎相信她被她对理查德的爱蒙蔽了双眼，忽视了他毁灭性的职业生涯。

I went one day to dine with them while I was under this impression. As I turned into Symond’s Inn, I met little Miss Flite coming out. She had been to make a stately call upon the wards in Jarndyce, as she still called them, and had derived the highest gratification from that ceremony. Ada had already told me that she called every Monday at five o’clock, with one little extra white bow in her bonnet, which never appeared there at any other time, and with her largest reticule of documents on her arm.
有一天，我带着这样的印象去和他们一起吃饭。当我拐进西蒙旅馆时，我遇见了小弗利特小姐走了出来。她曾对贾迪斯的病房进行一次庄严的拜访，她仍然这样称呼它们，并从这次仪式中获得了最高的满足。艾达已经告诉我，她每周一五点钟打电话，帽子上别着一个额外的白色蝴蝶结，以前从来没有出现过，胳膊上还挎着最大的文件袋。

‘My dear!’ she began. ‘So delighted! How do you do! So glad to see you. And you are going to visit our interesting Jarndyce wards? TO be sure! Our beauty is at home, my dear, and will be charmed to see you.’
“亲爱的！”她开始说道。 ‘太高兴了！你好吗！很高兴见到你。您打算参观我们有趣的贾迪斯病房吗？为了确定！亲爱的，我们的美丽就在家里，见到你我一定会很高兴。”

‘Then Richard is not come in yet?’ said I. ‘I am glad of that, for I was afraid of being a little late.’
“那么理查德还没进来吗？”我说道，“我很高兴，因为我担心会迟到一点。”

‘No, he is not come in,’ returned Miss Flite. ‘He has had a long day in court. I left him there with Vholes. You don’t like Vholes, I hope? DON’T like Vholes. Dan-gerous man!’
“不，他没有进来。”弗利特小姐回答道。 “他在法庭上度过了漫长的一天。我把他留在了沃勒斯那里。我希望你不喜欢Vholes？不喜欢Vholes。危险的人！

‘I am afraid you see Richard oftener than ever now,’ said I.
“恐怕你现在见到理查德比以前更频繁了，”我说。

‘My dearest,’ returned Miss Flite, ‘daily and hourly. You know what I told you of the attraction on the Chancellor’s table? My dear, next to myself he is the most constant suitor in court. He begins quite to amuse our little party. Ve-ry friendly little party, are we not?’
“我最亲爱的，”弗利特小姐回答道，“每天，每时每刻。”你知道我告诉过你财政大臣餐桌上的吸引力是什么吗？亲爱的，除了我之外，他是法庭上最坚定的追求者。他开始让我们这个小团体感到很有趣。非常友好的小聚会，不是吗？

It was miserable to hear this from her poor mad lips, though it was no surprise.
从她那可怜的疯狂的嘴唇里听到这句话真是令人痛苦，尽管这并不奇怪。

‘In short, my valued friend,’ pursued Miss Flite, advancing her lips to my ear with an air of equal patronage and mystery, ‘I must tell you a secret. I have made him my executor. Nominated, constituted, and appointed him. In my will. Ye-es.’
“简而言之，我尊贵的朋友，”弗利特小姐继续说道，她的嘴唇凑到我耳边，神态既恩赐又神秘，“我必须告诉你一个秘密。我已任命他为我的遗嘱执行人。提名、组建和任命他。在我的意愿中。是的，是的。’

‘Indeed?’ said I.
“真的吗？”我说。

‘Ye-es,’ repeated Miss Flite in her most genteel accents, ‘my executor, administrator, and assign. (Our Chancery phrases, my love.) I have reflected that if I should wear out, he will be able to watch that judgment. Being so very regular in his attendance.’
“是的，是的，”弗利特小姐用她最文雅的口音重复道，“我的遗嘱执行人、管理者和受托人。” （我们的大法官用语，亲爱的。）我已经考虑过，如果我精疲力尽，他将能够观看判决。他的出席非常规律。

It made me sigh to think of him.
一想到他我就叹息。

‘I did at one time mean,’ said Miss Flite, echoing the sigh, ‘to nominate, constitute, and appoint poor Gridley. Also very regular, my charming girl. I assure you, most exemplary! But he wore out, poor man, so I have appointed his successor. Don’t mention it. This is in confidence.’
“我曾经想过，”弗利特小姐说，呼应着叹息，“提名、组成和任命可怜的格里德利。也很规律，我迷人的女孩。我向你保证，堪称典范！但他已经筋疲力尽了，可怜的人，所以我指定了他的继任者。别提了。这是保密的。

She carefully opened her reticule a little way and showed me a folded piece of paper inside as the appointment of which she spoke.
她小心翼翼地把手提袋打开一点，给我看了一张折叠起来的纸，上面写着她所说的约会。

‘Another secret, my dear. I have added to my collection of birds.’
“又一个秘密，亲爱的。我已经添加了我的鸟类收藏。

‘Really, Miss Flite?’ said I, knowing how it pleased her to have her confidence received with an appearance of interest.
“真的吗，弗利特小姐？”我说道，我知道她对自己的信任表现出感兴趣的样子是多么高兴。

She nodded several times, and her face became overcast and gloomy. ‘Two more. I call them the Wards in Jarndyce. They are caged up with all the others. With Hope, Joy, Youth, Peace, Rest, Life, Dust, Ashes, Waste, Want, Ruin, Despair, Madness, Death, Cunning, Folly, Words, Wigs, Rags, Sheepskin, Plunder, Precedent, Jargon, Gammon, and Spinach!’
她连连点头，脸色变得阴沉起来。 ‘还有两个。我称他们为贾迪斯病房。他们和其他人一起被关在笼子里。希望、欢乐、青春、和平、休息、生命、灰尘、灰烬、浪费、匮乏、废墟、绝望、疯狂、死亡、狡猾、愚蠢、言语、假发、破布、羊皮、掠夺、先例、行话、火腿和菠菜！'

The poor soul kissed me with the most troubled look I had ever seen in her and went her way. Her manner of running over the names of her birds, as if she were afraid of hearing them even from her own lips, quite chilled me.
这个可怜的灵魂用我在她身上见过的最痛苦的表情吻了我，然后就走了。她念叨鸟儿名字的方式，就好像她害怕从自己嘴里听到它们一样，这让我感到很冷。

This was not a cheering preparation for my visit, and I could have dispensed with the company of Mr. Vholes, when Richard (who arrived within a minute or two after me) brought him to share our dinner. Although it was a very plain one, Ada and Richard were for some minutes both out of the room together helping to get ready what we were to eat and drink. Mr. Vholes took that opportunity of holding a little conversation in a low voice with me. He came to the window where I was sitting and began upon Symond’s Inn.
这对我的访问来说并不是一个令人愉快的准备，当理查德（他在我之后一两分钟内到达）带他来分享我们的晚餐时，我本可以省掉沃尔斯先生的陪伴。尽管这是一个非常简单的事情，但艾达和理查德都一起走出房间几分钟，帮助准备我们要吃的和喝的。沃尔斯先生借此机会与我低声交谈了一会儿。他来到我坐的窗前，开始朝西蒙德旅馆走去。

‘A dull place, Miss Summerson, for a life that is not an official one,’ said Mr. Vholes, smearing the glass with his black glove to make it clearer for me.
“萨默森小姐，这是一个沉闷的地方，对于非官方的生活来说，”沃尔斯先生说，用他的黑手套在玻璃上涂抹，让我看得更清楚。

‘There is not much to see here,’ said I.
“这里没什么可看的，”我说。

‘Nor to hear, miss,’ returned Mr. Vholes. ‘A little music does occasionally stray in, but we are not musical in the law and soon eject it. I hope Mr. Jarndyce is as well as his friends could wish him?’
“也别听，小姐，”沃尔斯先生回答道。 “偶尔会有一点音乐误入，但我们在法律上不音乐，很快就会将其驱逐出去。我希望贾迪斯先生和他的朋友们一样希望他好吗？

I thanked Mr. Vholes and said he was quite well.
我感谢了沃尔斯先生，并说他很好。

‘I have not the pleasure to be admitted among the number of his friends myself,’ said Mr. Vholes, ‘and I am aware that the gentlemen of our profession are sometimes regarded in such quarters with an unfavourable eye. Our plain course, however, under good report and evil report, and all kinds of prejudice (we are the victims of prejudice), is to have everything openly carried on. How do you find Mr. C. looking, Miss Summerson?’
“我本人并不高兴被接纳为他的朋友之一，”沃尔斯先生说，“而且我知道，我们这个行业的绅士有时会在这些方面受到不利的对待。然而，在善意的报道和恶毒的报道以及各种偏见（我们是偏见的受害者）下，我们的简单做法就是一切都公开进行。萨默森小姐，你觉得 C 先生看起来怎么样？

‘He looks very ill. Dreadfully anxious.’
‘他看起来病得很重。非常焦虑。

‘Just so,’ said Mr. Vholes.
“正是如此，”沃尔斯先生说。

He stood behind me with his long black figure reaching nearly to the ceiling of those low rooms, feeling the pimples on his face as if they were ornaments and speaking inwardly and evenly as though there were not a human passion or emotion in his nature.
他站在我身后，黑色修长的身影几乎伸到了那些低矮房间的天花板，摸着脸上的痘痘，仿佛它们是装饰品，他内心平静地说话，仿佛他的本性中没有人类的激情和情感。

‘Mr. Woodcourt is in attendance upon Mr. C., I believe?’ he resumed.
'先生。我相信伍德考特正在照顾 C. 先生吗？”他继续说道。

‘Mr. Woodcourt is his disinterested friend,’ I answered.
'先生。伍德考特是他无私的朋友，”我回答道。

‘But I mean in professional attendance, medical attendance.’
“但我指的是专业出勤、医疗出勤。”

‘That can do little for an unhappy mind,’ said I.
“对于一个不快乐的人来说，这没什么用处，”我说。

‘Just so,’ said Mr. Vholes.
“正是如此，”沃尔斯先生说。

So slow, so eager, so bloodless and gaunt, I felt as if Richard were wasting away beneath the eyes of this adviser and there were something of the vampire in him.
如此缓慢，如此热切，如此毫无血色和憔悴，我觉得理查德似乎在这位顾问的眼皮子底下日渐消瘦，他身上有某种吸血鬼的味道。

‘Miss Summerson,’ said Mr. Vholes, very slowly rubbing his gloved hands, as if, to his cold sense of touch, they were much the same in black kid or out of it, ‘this was an ill-advised marriage of Mr. C.’s.’
“萨默森小姐，”沃尔斯先生非常缓慢地搓着戴着手套的双手，仿佛在他冰冷的触觉中，无论是黑山羊皮还是非黑山羊皮，它们都一样，“这是先生的一次不明智的婚姻。” 。 CS。'

I begged he would excuse me from discussing it. They had been engaged when they were both very young, I told him (a little indignantly) and when the prospect before them was much fairer and brighter. When Richard had not yielded himself to the unhappy influence which now darkened his life.
我恳求他原谅我不要讨论这个问题。我告诉他（有点愤慨），他们都很年轻的时候就订婚了，当时他们面前的前景更加美好和光明。当理查德还没有屈服于现在使他的生活变得黑暗的不幸影响时。

‘Just so,’ assented Mr. Vholes again. ‘Still, with a view to everything being openly carried on, I will, with your permission, Miss Summerson, observe to you that I consider this a very illadvised marriage indeed. I owe the opinion not only to Mr. C.’s connexions, against whom I should naturally wish to protect myself, but also to my own reputation—dear to myself as a professional man aiming to keep respectable; dear to my three girls at home, for whom I am striving to realize some little independence; dear, I will even say, to my aged father, whom it is my privilege to support.’
“正是如此，”沃尔斯先生再次表示同意。 “尽管如此，为了让一切都公开进行，在您的允许下，萨默森小姐，我会向您指出，我认为这确实是一场非常不明智的婚姻。我的意见不仅是出于 C. 先生的关系，我自然希望保护自己免受他们的侵害，而且也是出于我自己的声誉——作为一个致力于保持受人尊敬的专业人士，我很珍视自己的声誉。亲爱的家里的三个女儿，我正在努力为她们实现一点独立；亲爱的，我什至会对我年迈的父亲说，我很荣幸能够支持他。

‘It would become a very different marriage, a much happier and better marriage, another marriage altogether, Mr. Vholes,’ said I, ‘if Richard were persuaded to turn his back on the fatal pursuit in which you are engaged with him.’
“这将成为一段截然不同的婚姻，一段更幸福、更美好的婚姻，完全是另一段婚姻，沃尔斯先生，”我说，“如果理查德被说服，放弃你与他订婚的致命追求。”

Mr. Vholes, with a noiseless cough—or rather gasp—into one of his black gloves, inclined his head as if he did not wholly dispute even that.
沃尔斯先生戴着一只黑手套，无声地咳嗽——或者更确切地说是喘气——歪着头，仿佛他对此也没有完全反驳。

‘Miss Summerson,’ he said, ‘it may be so; and I freely admit that the young lady who has taken Mr. C.’s name upon herself in so illadvised a manner—you will I am sure not quarrel with me for throwing out that remark again, as a duty I owe to Mr. C.’s connexions—is a highly genteel young lady. Business has prevented me from mixing much with general society in any but a professional character; still I trust I am competent to perceive that she is a highly genteel young lady. As to beauty, I am not a judge of that myself, and I never did give much attention to it from a boy, but I dare say the young lady is equally eligible in that point of view. She is considered so (I have heard) among the clerks in the Inn, and it is a point more in their way than in mine. In reference to Mr. C.’s pursult of his interests—‘
“萨默森小姐，”他说，“可能是这样；我坦率地承认，那位以如此不明智的方式冒用了C.先生的名字的年轻女士——我相信你不会因为我再次抛出这句话而与我争吵，因为我对C.先生负有责任。 C.的关系——是一位非常有教养的年轻女士。商业使我无法以职业身份与一般社会打交道。我仍然相信我有能力看出她是一位非常优雅的年轻女士。至于美貌，我自己并没有这样的判断，我也从来没有对男孩子给予太多关注，但我敢说这位年轻的女士在这个角度上同样有资格。 （我听说）旅馆里的店员们也这么认为她，这对他们来说比对我来说更重要。关于 C. 先生对自己利益的追求——‘

‘Oh! His interests, Mr. Vholes!’
'哦！他的兴趣，沃尔斯先生！

‘Pardon me,’ returned Mr. Vholes, going on in exactly the same inward and dispassionate manner. ‘Mr. C. takes certain interests under certain wills disputed in the suit. It is a term we use. In reference to Mr. C,’s pursuit of his interests, I mentioned to you, Miss Summerson, the first time I had the pleasure of seeing you, in my desire that everything should he openly carried on—I used those words, for I happened afterwards to note them in my diary, which is producible at any time—I mentioned to you that Mr. C. had laid down the principle of watching his own interests, and that when a client of mine laid down a principle which was not of an immoral (that is to say, unlawful) nature, it devolved upon me to carry it out. I HAVE carried it out; I do carry it out. But I will not smooth things over to any connexion of Mr. C.’s on any account. As open as I was to Mr. Jarndyce, I am to you. I regard it in the light of a professional duty to be so, though it can be charged to no one. I openly say, unpalatable as it may be, that I consider Mr. C.’s affairs in a very bad way, that I consider Mr. C. himself in a very bad way, and that I regard this as an exceedingly illadvised marriage. Am I here, sir? Yes, I thank you; I am here, Mr. C., and enjoying the pleasure of some agreeable conversation with Miss Summerson, for which I have to thank you very much, sir!’
“请原谅，”弗霍尔斯先生回答道，语气一模一样，内心平静。 '先生。 C. 根据诉讼中有争议的某些遗嘱取得某些利益。这是我们使用的术语。关于C先生对他的兴趣的追求，我第一次有幸见到你时，我向你提到过，萨默森小姐，我希望他能公开地进行一切——我用这些话，是为了后来我碰巧在我的日记中记下了这些内容，日记可以随时拿出来——我向你提到过，C.先生制定了关注自己利益的原则，当我的一位客户制定了一个原则时，这并非不道德（即非法）性质，而是由我来执行。我已经执行了；我确实执行了。但无论如何，我都不会因为 C. 先生的任何关系而让事情变得顺利。就像我对贾迪斯先生持开放态度一样，我对你也持开放态度。我认为这是出于一种职业责任，尽管这不能归咎于任何人。我公开地说，尽管这可能令人不快，但我对 C. 先生的事务的看法非常糟糕，我对 C. 先生本人的看法也非常糟糕，而且我认为这是一桩极其不明智的婚姻。我在这儿吗，先生？是的，我谢谢你；我在这里，C. 先生，享受着与萨默森小姐愉快交谈的乐趣，为此我非常感谢您，先生！

He broke off thus in answer to Richard, who addressed him as he came into the room. By this time I too well understood Mr. Vholes’s scrupulous way of saving himself and his respectability not to feel that our worst fears did but keep pace with his client’s progress.
他就这样停下来回答理查德，当他走进房间时，理查德向他打招呼。此时，我已经非常了解沃尔斯先生自救的谨慎方式和他的受人尊敬，因此我不会感到我们最担心的事情确实发生了，而是与他的客户的进步保持同步。

We sat down to dinner, and I had an opportunity of observing Richard, anxiously. I was not disturbed by Mr. Vholes (who took off his gloves to dine), though he sat opposite to me at the small table, for I doubt if, looking up at all, he once removed his eyes from his host’s face. I found Richard thin and languid, slovenly in his dress, abstracted in his manner, forcing his spirits now and then, and at other intervals relapsing into a dull thoughtfulness. About his large bright eyes that used to be so merry there was a wanness and a restlessness that changed them altogether. 1 cannot use the expression that he looked old. There is a ruin of youth which is not like age, and into such a ruin Richard’s youth and youthful beauty had all fallen away.
我们坐下来吃晚饭，我有机会焦急地观察理查德。我并没有被沃尔斯先生（他脱下手套进餐）打扰，尽管他坐在我对面的小桌子上，因为我怀疑他是否曾抬起头，把目光从主人的脸上移开。我发现理查德瘦弱而无精打采，衣着邋遢，举止心不在焉，时不时地强迫自己精神起来，有时又陷入沉闷的沉思。他那双明亮的大眼睛原本是那么快乐，现在却变得苍白和不安，完全改变了它们。 1 不能用“他看上去很老”这样的表达方式。青春的废墟与年龄不同，理查德的青春和青春的美丽都在这样的废墟中消失了。

He ate little and seemed indifferent what it was, showed himself to be much more impatient than he used to be, and was quick even with Ada. I thought at first that his old light-hearted manner was all gone, but it shone out of him sometimes as I had occasionally known little momentary glimpses of my own old face to look out upon me from the glass. His laugh had not quite left him either, but it was like the echo of a joyful sound, and that is always sorrowful.
他吃得很少，似乎对吃什么漠不关心，表现得比以前更加不耐烦，甚至对艾达也反应很快。起初我以为他以前轻松愉快的态度已经消失了，但有时他身上会散发出这种光芒，因为我偶尔会瞥见自己那张苍老的脸从玻璃上看着我。他的笑声也没有完全消失，但它就像欢乐声音的回声，而且总是悲伤的。

Yet he was as glad as ever, in his old affectionate way, to have me there, and we talked of the old times pleasantly. These did not appear to be interesting to Mr. Vholes, though he occasionally made a gasp which I believe was his smile. He rose shortly after dinner and said that with the permission of the ladies he would retire to his office.
然而，他还是像以前一样高兴，以他一贯的深情方式，让我在那里，我们愉快地谈论了过去的时光。沃尔斯先生似乎对这些不感兴趣，尽管他偶尔会喘口气，我相信那是他的微笑。晚饭后不久，他起身说，如果得到女士们的允许，他将回到自己的办公室。

‘Always devoted to business, Vholes!’ cried Richard.
“沃尔斯，永远致力于事业！”理查德喊道。

‘Yes, Mr. C.,’ he returned, ‘the interests of clients are never to be neglected, sir. They are paramount in the thoughts of a professional man like myself, who wishes to preserve a good name among his fellow-practitioners and society at large. My denying myself the pleasure of the present agreeable conversation may not be wholly irrespective of your own interests, Mr. C.’
“是的，C. 先生，”他回答道，“客户的利益永远不能被忽视，先生。对于像我这样的专业人士来说，它们是最重要的，因为我希望在他的同修和整个社会中保持良好的声誉。我拒绝享受当前愉快的谈话可能并不完全不考虑你自己的利益，C 先生。

Richard expressed himself quite sure of that and lighted Mr. Vholes out. On his return he told us, more than once, that Vholes was a good fellow, a safe fellow, a man who did what he pretended to do, a very good fellow indeed! He was so defiant about it that it struck me he had begun to doubt Mr. Vholes.
理查德表示自己对此非常肯定，并让沃尔斯先生不再说话。回来后，他不止一次地告诉我们，沃尔斯是一个好人，一个安全的人，一个做了他假装做的事的人，确实是一个非常好的人！他对此如此挑衅，以至于我突然意识到他已经开始怀疑沃尔斯先生了。

Then he threw himself on the sofa, tired out; and Ada and I put things to rights, for they had no other servant than the woman who attended to the chambers. My dear girl had a cottage piano there and quietly sat down to sing some of Richard’s favourites, the lamp being first removed into the next room, as he complained of its hurting his eyes.
然后他累得瘫倒在沙发上。艾达和我纠正了事情，因为除了看守房间的女人之外，他们没有其他仆人。我亲爱的女孩那里有一架乡村钢琴，她静静地坐下来唱理查德最喜欢的一些歌曲，灯首先被移到隔壁房间，因为他抱怨它伤害了他的眼睛。

I sat between them, at my dear girl’s side, and felt very melancholy listening to her sweet voice. I think Richard did too; I think he darkened the room for that reason. She had been singing some time, rising between whiles to bend over him and speak to him, when Mr. Woodcourt came in. Then he sat down by Richard and half playfully, half earnestly, quite naturally and easily, found out how he felt and where he had been all day. Presently he proposed to accompany him in a short walk on one of the bridges, as it was a moonlight airy night; and Richard readily consenting, they went out together.
我坐在他们中间，在我亲爱的女孩身边，听着她甜美的声音，我感到很忧郁。我想理查德也是如此。我认为他就是因为这个原因才把房间调暗的。当伍德考特先生进来的时候，她已经唱了一段时间了，时不时地站起来弯下腰来和他说话。然后他在理查德身边坐下，一半开玩笑，一半认真，很自然而轻松地了解了他的感受和感受。他一整天都待在那里。不久，他提议陪他在其中一座桥上散步，因为那是一个月光明媚的夜晚。理查德爽快地答应了，他们一起出去了。

They left my dear girl still sitting at the piano and me still sitting beside her. When they were gone out, I drew my arm round her waist. She put her left hand in mine (I was sitting on that side), but kept her right upon the keys, going over and over them without striking any note.
他们留下我亲爱的女儿仍然坐在钢琴前，而我仍然坐在她旁边。当他们出去时，我伸出手臂搂住她的腰。她把左手放在我的手上（我坐在那一边），但把右手放在琴键上，一遍又一遍地敲击着它们，没有敲出任何音符。

‘Esther, my dearest,’ she said, breaking silence, ‘Richard is never so well and I am never so easy about him as when he is with Allan Woodcourt. We have to thank you for that.’
“艾丝特，我最亲爱的，”她打破沉默说道，“理查德从来没有像他和艾伦·伍德考特在一起时那样好过，我对他也从来没有这么轻松过。”我们必须为此感谢你。

I pointed out to my darling how this could scarcely be, because Mr. Woodcourt had come to her cousin John’s house and had known us all there, and because he had always liked Richard, and Richard had always liked him, and—and so forth.
我向我亲爱的指出这怎么可能是这样，因为伍德考特先生来到了她表弟约翰的家，并且在那里认识我们所有人，而且因为他一直喜欢理查德，而理查德也一直喜欢他，等等。

‘All true,’ said Ada, ‘but that he is such a devoted friend to us we owe to you.’
“确实如此，”艾达说，“但他是我们如此忠实的朋友，我们要感谢你。”

I thought it best to let my dear girl have her way and to say no more about it. So I said as much. I said it lightly, because I felt her trembling.
我认为最好让我亲爱的女儿随心所欲，不再多说。所以我就说了这么多。我说得很轻，因为我感觉到她在颤抖。

‘Esther, my dearest, I want to be a good wife, a very, very good wife indeed. You shall teach me.’
“埃丝特，我最亲爱的，我想成为一个好妻子，一个非常非常好的妻子。你来教我。

I teach! I said no more, for I noticed the hand that was fluttering over the keys, and I knew that it was not I who ought to speak, that it was she who had something to say to me.
我教！我没有再说什么，因为我注意到那只手在琴键上颤动，我知道不应该由我说话，而是她有话要对我说。

‘When I married Richard I was not insensible to what was before him. I had been perfectly happy for a long time with you, and I had never known any trouble or anxiety, so loved and cared for, but I understood the danger he was in, dear Esther.’
“当我嫁给理查德时，我对他面前的一切并不是无动于衷。我和你在一起很长一段时间都非常幸福，我从来没有遇到任何麻烦或焦虑，所以被爱和关心，但我理解他所处的危险，亲爱的埃丝特。

‘I know, I know, my darling.’
“我知道，我知道，亲爱的。”

‘When we were married I had some little hope that I might be able to convince him of his mistake, that he might come to regard it in a new way as my husband and not pursue it all the more desperately for my sake—as he does. But if I had not had that hope, I would have married him just the same, Esther. Just the same!’
“当我们结婚时，我有一些小小的希望，希望我能够说服他承认自己的错误，让他能够以一种新的方式将其视为我的丈夫，而不是为了我而更加拼命地追求它——就像他那样做。但如果我没有这个希望，我还是会嫁给他，埃丝特。一样！

In the momentary firmness of the hand that was never still—a firmness inspired by the utterance of these last words, and dying away with them—I saw the confirmation of her earnest tones.
从她那只从未静止过的瞬间坚定的手上——这种坚定是由这最后一句话的说出引起的，并随之消失——我看到了她真诚的语气的确认。

‘You are not to think, my dearest Esther, that I fail to see what you see and fear what you fear. No one can understand him better than I do. The greatest wisdom that ever lived in the world could scarcely know Richard better than my love does.’
“我最亲爱的埃丝特，你不要以为我看不到你所看到的，害怕你所害怕的。没有人比我更能理解他。世界上最伟大的智慧也不可能比我的爱人更了解理查德。

She spoke so modestly and softly and her trembling hand expressed such agitation as it moved to and fro upon the silent notes! My dear, dear girl!
她说话是如此谦虚和轻柔，她颤抖的手在无声的音符上来回移动，表现出如此的激动！我亲爱的、亲爱的女孩！

‘I see him at his worst every day. I watch him in his sleep. I know every change of his face. But when I married Richard I was quite determined, Esther, if heaven would help me, never to show him that I grieved for what he did and so to make him more unhappy. I want him, when he comes home, to find no trouble in my face. I want him, when he looks at me, to see what he loved in me. I married him to do this, and this supports me.’
“我每天都看到他最糟糕的时候。我看着他睡梦中的样子。我知道他脸上的每一个变化。但当我嫁给理查德时，我下定决心，埃丝特，如果上天能帮助我的话，永远不要让他知道我为他的所作所为感到悲伤，从而让他更加不高兴。我希望他回家后不会在我脸上发现任何麻烦。我希望他在看着我的时候，能看到他爱我的地方。我嫁给他就是为了这么做，这支持了我。”

I felt her trembling more. I waited for what was yet to come, and I now thought I began to know what it was.
我感觉到她颤抖得更厉害了。我等待着即将到来的事情，现在我想我开始知道那是什么了。

‘And something else supports me, Esther.’
“还有其他东西在支持我，埃丝特。”

She stopped a minute. Stopped speaking only; her hand was still in motion.
她停了一分钟。只停止说话；她的手还在动。

‘I look forward a little while, and I don’t know what great aid may come to me. When Richard turns his eyes upon me then, there may be something lying on my breast more eloquent than I have been, with greater power than mine to show him his true course and win him back.’
‘我期待了一会儿，但我不知道会有什么伟大的帮助降临到我身上。当理查德把目光转向我时，我胸中可能有某种东西比我以前更有说服力，比我更有力量，可以向他展示他的真实路线并赢得他的支持。

Her hand stopped now. She clasped me in her arms, and I clasped her in mine.
她的手现在停了下来。她将我搂在怀里，我也将她搂在怀里。

‘If that little creature should fail too, Esther, I still look forward. I look forward a long while, through years and years, and think that then, when I am growing old, or when I am dead perhaps, a beautiful woman, his daughter, happily married, may be proud of him and a blessing to him. Or that a generous brave man, as handsome as he used to be, as hopeful, and far more happy, may walk in the sunshine with him, honouring his grey head and saying to himself, ‘I thank God this is my father! Ruined by a fatal inheritance, and restored through me!’’
“如果那个小生物也失败了，埃丝特，我仍然期待着。我期待了很长一段时间，年复一年，并想，当我变老，或者当我死去时，一个美丽的女人，他的女儿，幸福地结婚了，可能会为他感到骄傲，并祝福他。或者，一个慷慨勇敢的人，像以前一样英俊，一样充满希望，更加快乐，可以和他一起走在阳光下，尊重他的白发并对自己说：“我感谢上帝，这是我的父亲！”被致命的传承毁掉，又通过我恢复！”

Oh, my sweet girl, what a heart was that which beat so fast against me!
哦，我可爱的女孩，那颗心脏在我身上跳得如此之快！

‘These hopes uphold me, my dear Esther, and I know they will. Though sometimes even they depart from me before a dread that arises when I look at Richard.’
“这些希望支撑着我，亲爱的埃丝特，我知道它们会的。尽管有时候，当我看到理查德时，我会感到恐惧，甚至他们也会离开我。

I tried to cheer my darling, and asked her what it was. Sobbing and weeping, she replied, ‘That he may not live to see his child.’
我试图让我亲爱的开心起来，并问她那是什么。她抽泣着回答说：“以免他活着见到他的孩子。”

CHAPTER LXI
第十六章


A Discovery
一个发现

The days when I frequented that miserable corner which my dear girl brightened can never fade in my remembrance. I never see it, and I never wish to see it now; I have been there only once since, but in my memory there is a mournful glory shining on the place which will shine for ever.
我经常光顾那个被我亲爱的女孩照亮的悲惨角落的日子永远不会在我的记忆中消失。我从未见过它，现在我也不想见到它；从那以后我只去过那里一次，但在我的记忆中，有一种悲伤的光辉照耀着这个地方，它将永远闪耀。

Not a day passed without my going there, of course. At first I found Mr. Skimpole there, on two or three occasions, idly playing the piano and talking in his usual vivacious strain. Now, besides my very much mistrusting the probability of his being there without making Richard poorer, I felt as if there were something in his careless gaiety too inconsistent with what I knew of the depths of Ada’s life. I clearly perceived, too, that Ada shared my feelings. I therefore resolved, after much thinking of it, to make a private visit to Mr. Skimpole and try delicately to explain myself. My dear girl was the great consideration that made me bold.
当然，我没有一天不去那里。起初，我曾有两三次发现斯金波尔先生在那儿，悠闲地弹着钢琴，用他一贯的活泼语气说话。现在，除了我非常怀疑他在场不会让理查德变得更穷之外，我觉得他漫不经心的快乐中似乎有什么东西与我对艾达生活深处的了解太不一致了。我也清楚地意识到艾达也有同样的感受。因此，经过深思熟虑，我决定私下拜访斯金波尔先生，并尝试巧妙地解释自己的情况。我亲爱的女孩是我的伟大考虑让我变得勇敢。

I set off one morning, accompanied by Charley, for Somers Town. As I approached the house, I was strongly inclined to turn back, for I felt what a desperate attempt it was to make an impression on Mr. Skimpole and how extremely likely it was that he would signally defeat me. However, I thought that being there, I would go through with it. I knocked with a trembling hand at Mr. Skimpole’s door— literally with a hand, for the knocker was gone—and after a long parley gained admission from an Irishwoman, who was in the area when I knocked, breaking up the lid of a water-butt with a poker to light the fire with.
一天早上，我在查理的陪同下出发前往萨默斯镇。当我走近那所房子时，我强烈地想回头，因为我觉得要给斯金波尔先生留下印象是多么绝望的尝试，而且他很可能会明显地击败我。然而，我想，在那里，我会经历这一切。我用颤抖的手敲了敲斯基姆波尔先生的门——实际上是一只手，因为门环不见了——经过长时间的谈判，一位爱尔兰女人承认了，当我敲门时，她就在附近，打破了水箱的盖子。 -用拨火棍点燃火。

Mr. Skimpole, lying on the sofa in his room, playing the flute a little, was enchanted to see me. Now, who should receive me, he asked. Who would I prefer for mistress of the ceremonies? Would I have his Comedy daughter, his Beauty daughter, or his Sentiment daughter? Or would I have all the daughters at once in a perfect nosegay?
斯金波尔先生躺在房间的沙发上，吹着长笛，看到我很着迷。现在，谁应该接待我，他问道。我更喜欢谁作为仪式的女主人？我会拥有他的喜剧女儿，他的美丽女儿，还是他的情感女儿？或者我会让所有的女儿同时拥有完美的花束吗？

I replied, half defeated already, that I wished to speak to himself only if he would give me leave.
我已经半途而废地回答说，只有在他允许我离开的情况下，我才想和自己说话。

‘My dear Miss Summerson, most joyfully! Of course,’ he said, bringing his chair nearer mine and breaking into his fascinating smile, of course it’s not business. Then it’s pleasure!’
“我亲爱的萨默森小姐，非常高兴！当然，”他一边说，一边把椅子拉近我的位置，露出迷人的微笑，当然这不是生意。那么就很高兴了！

I said it certainly was not business that I came upon, but it was not quite a pleasant matter.
我说我遇到的这件事当然不是什么生意，但这并不是一件令人愉快的事情。

‘Then, my dear Miss Summerson,’ said he with the frankest gaiety, ‘don’t allude to it. Why should you allude to anything that is NOT a pleasant matter? I never do. And you are a much pleasanter creature, in every point of view, than I. You are perfectly pleasant; I am imperfectly pleasant; then, if I never allude to an unpleasant matter, how much less should you! So that’s disposed of, and we will talk of something else.’
“那么，我亲爱的萨默森小姐，”他坦率地高兴地说，“不要提及此事。”你为什么要提及任何不愉快的事情呢？我从来没有做。从各个角度来看，你都是一个比我更令人愉快的生物。我是一个不完美的令人愉快的人；那么，如果我从不提及任何不愉快的事情，你更不应该提及！所以这个问题就解决了，我们会讨论别的事情。

Although I was embarrassed, I took courage to intimate that I still wished to pursue the subject.
尽管我很尴尬，但我鼓起勇气表示我仍然希望继续这个话题。

‘I should think it a mistake,’ said Mr. Skimpole with his airy laugh, ‘if I thought Miss Summerson capable of making one. But I don’t!’
“如果我认为萨默森小姐有能力做到这一点，”斯金波尔先生轻快地笑着说，“我应该认为这是一个错误。”但我不！

‘Mr. Skimpole,’ said I, raising my eyes to his, ‘I have so often heard you say that you are unacquainted with the common affairs of life—‘
'先生。斯基姆波尔，”我抬起眼睛看着他，说道，“我经常听到你说你不熟悉生活中的常见事务——”

‘Meaning our three banking-house friends, L, S, and who’s the junior partner? D?’ said Mr. Skimpole, brightly. ‘Not an idea of them!’
“指的是我们的三位银行朋友，L、S，谁是初级合伙人？” D？”斯金波尔先生明亮地说。 “不知道他们的想法！”

‘—That perhaps,’ I went on, ‘you will excuse my boldness on that account. I think you ought most seriously to know that Richard is poorer than he was.’
“——也许，”我继续说，“你会原谅我因此而大胆。”我认为你应该认真地知道理查德比他以前更穷。

‘Dear me!’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘So am I, they tell me.’
“天啊！”斯金波尔先生说。 “他们告诉我，我也是。”

‘And in very embarrassed circumstances.’
“而且是在非常尴尬的情况下。”

‘Parallel case, exactly!’ said Mr. Skimpole with a delighted countenance.
“完全是平行的情况！”斯金波尔先生一脸高兴地说。

‘This at present naturally causes Ada much secret anxiety, and as I think she is less anxious when no claims are made upon her by visitors, and as Richard has one uneasiness always heavy on his mind, it has occurred to me to take the liberty of saying that—if you would—not—‘
“目前，这自然会让艾达产生很多隐秘的焦虑，而且我认为，当没有访客对她提出要求时，她会不那么焦虑，而且理查德总是有一种不安的感觉沉重地压在他的脑海里，所以我想到要冒昧地冒一下险。”说——如果你愿意的话——不——”

I was coming to the point with great difficulty when he took me by both hands and with a radiant face and in the liveliest way anticipated it.
当我好不容易才说到重点时，他用双手握住了我，脸上容光焕发，以最生动的方式期待着这一切。

‘Not go there? Certainly not, my dear Miss Summerson, most assuredly not. Why SHOULD I go there? When I go anywhere, I go for pleasure. I don’t go anywhere for pain, because I was made for pleasure. Pain comes to ME when it wants me. Now, I have had very little pleasure at our dear Richard’s lately, and your practical sagacity demonstrates why. Our young friends, losing the youthful poetry which was once so captivating in them, begin to think, ‘This is a man who wants pounds.’ So I am; I always want pounds; not for myself, but because tradespeople always want them of me. Next, our young friends begin to think, becoming mercenary, ‘This is the man who HAD pounds, who borrowed them,’ which I did. I always borrow pounds. So our young friends, reduced to prose (which is much to be regretted), degenerate in their power of imparting pleasure to me. Why should I go to see them, therefore? Absurd!’
‘不去那里吗？当然不是，我亲爱的萨默森小姐，绝对不是。我为什么要去那里？当我去任何地方时，我都是为了快乐。我不会为了痛苦而去任何地方，因为我生来就是为了快乐。当痛苦需要我的时候它就会来找我。现在，我最近在我们亲爱的理查德家几乎没有什么乐趣，你的实际智慧证明了原因。我们的年轻朋友们失去了曾经如此迷人的青春诗意，开始思考：“这是一个想要英镑的人。”我也是；我总是想要英镑；不是为了我自己，而是因为商人总是想从我这里得到它们。接下来，我们的年轻朋友开始思考，成为唯利是图的人，“这个人有英镑，是借钱的”，我也这么做了。我总是借英镑。因此，我们的年轻朋友们，沦落为散文（这是非常遗憾的），他们给我带来快乐的能力也退化了。那么我为什么要去见他们呢？荒诞！'

Through the beaming smile with which he regarded me as he reasoned thus, there now broke forth a look of disinterested benevolence quite astonishing.
当他如此推理时，他看着我的笑容中，现在爆发出一种令人惊讶的无私仁慈的神情。

‘Besides,’ he said, pursuing his argument in his tone of lighthearted conviction, ‘if I don’t go anywhere for pain—which would be a perversion of the intention of my being, and a monstrous thing to do—why should I go anywhere to be the cause of pain? If I went to see our young friends in their present ill-regulated state of mind, I should give them pain. The associations with me would be disagreeable. They might say, ‘This is the man who had pounds and who can’t pay pounds,’ which I can’t, of course; nothing could be more out of the question! Then kindness requires that I shouldn’t go near them—and I won’t.’
“此外，”他用轻松而坚定的语气继续论证，“如果我不去任何地方去寻求痛苦——这将是对我存在意图的曲解，也是一件可怕的事情——我为什么要这么做？”去哪里成为疼痛的原因？如果我去看看我们年轻的朋友们目前精神不正常的状态，我应该给他们带来痛苦。和我的交往会很不愉快。他们可能会说，“这个人有英镑，却付不起英镑”，当然，我不能；没有什么比这更不可能的了！然后出于善意，我不应该靠近他们——而且我不会。”

He finished by genially kissing my hand and thanking me. Nothing but Miss Summerson’s fine tact, he said, would have found this out for him.
最后他亲切地吻了我的手并向我表示感谢。他说，只有萨默森小姐的机智才能让他发现这一点。

I was much disconcerted, but I reflected that if the main point were gained, it mattered little how strangely he perverted everything leading to it. I had determined to mention something else, however, and I thought I was not to be put off in that.
我感到非常不安，但我想，如果要点已经达成，那么他如何奇怪地歪曲了导致这一点的一切就无关紧要了。然而，我决定提及其他事情，并且我认为我不能因此而被推迟。

‘Mr. Skimpole,’ said I, ‘I must take the liberty of saying before I conclude my visit that I was much surprised to learn, on the best authority, some little time ago, that you knew with whom that poor boy left Bleak House and that you accepted a present on that occasion. I have not mentioned it to my guardian, for I fear it would hurt him unnecessarily; but I may say to you that I was much surprised.’
'先生。斯金波尔，”我说，“在我结束访问之前，我必须冒昧地说，不久前，我很惊讶地得知，根据最权威的资料，你知道那个可怜的男孩和谁一起离开了荒凉山庄，而且那次你接受了一份礼物。我没有向我的监护人提及此事，因为我担心这会对他造成不必要的伤害；但我可以告诉你，我很惊讶。

‘No? Really surprised, my dear Miss Summerson?’ he returned inquiringly, raising his pleasant eyebrows.
'不？真的很惊讶吗，我亲爱的萨默森小姐？”他询问地回答，扬起他愉快的眉毛。

‘Greatly surprised.’
“非常惊讶。”

He thought about it for a little while with a highly agreeable and whimsical expression of face, then quite gave it up and said in his most engaging manner, ‘You know what a child I am. Why surprised?’
他想了一会儿，脸上露出一种非常和蔼可亲又异想天开的表情，然后完全放弃了，用他最迷人的方式说道：“你知道我是个什么样的孩子。”为什么感到惊讶？

I was reluctant to enter minutely into that question, but as he begged I would, for he was really curious to know, I gave him to understand in the gentlest words I could use that his conduct seemed to involve a disregard of several moral obligations. He was much amused and interested when he heard this and said, ‘No, really?’ with ingenuous simplicity.
我不愿意详细讨论这个问题，但当他恳求我这样做时，因为他真的很想知道，我用我能用的最温和的语言让他明白，他的行为似乎涉及对一些道德义务的无视。当他听到这句话时，他感到非常有趣和感兴趣，并天真地简单地说：“不，真的吗？”

‘You know I don’t intend to be responsible. I never could do it. Responsibility is a thing that has always been above me—or below me,’ said Mr. Skimpole. ‘I don’t even know which; but as I understand the way in which my dear Miss Summerson (always remarkable for her practical good sense and clearness) puts this case, I should imagine it was chiefly a question of money, do you know?’
“你知道我不想承担责任。我从来都做不到。斯金波尔先生说，责任始终是高于我或低于我的事情。 “我什至不知道是哪一个；但据我了解我亲爱的萨默森小姐（总是以她实际的良好判断力和清晰性而著称）提出这个问题的方式，我应该认为这主要是一个金钱问题，你知道吗？

I incautiously gave a qualified assent to this.
我不经意地表示有条件地同意了这一点。

‘Ah! Then you see,’ said Mr. Skimpole, shaking his head, ‘I am hopeless of understanding it.’
'啊！那么你看，”斯金波尔先生摇着头说道，“我无法理解它。”

I suggested, as I rose to go, that it was not right to betray my guardian’s confidence for a bribe.
当我起身离开时，我建议，为了贿赂而背叛监护人的信任是不对的。

‘My dear Miss Summerson,’ he returned with a candid hilarity that was all his own, ‘I can’t be bribed.’
“我亲爱的萨默森小姐，”他带着一种完全属于他自己的坦率的欢笑回答道，“我不能被贿赂。”

‘Not by Mr. Bucket?’ said I.
“不是巴克特先生写的吗？”我说。

‘No,’ said he. ‘Not by anybody. I don’t attach any value to money. I don’t care about it, I don’t know about it, I don’t want it, I don’t keep it—it goes away from me directly. How can I be bribed?’
“不，”他说。 ” “不是任何人。我不重视金钱。我不在乎它，我不知道它，我不想要它，我不保留它——它直接从我身边消失了。我怎么会被贿赂呢？

I showed that I was of a different opinion, though I had not the capacity for arguing the question.
我表明了我的不同意见，尽管我没有能力争论这个问题。

‘On the contrary,’ said Mr. Skimpole, ‘I am exactly the man to be placed in a superior position in such a case as that. I am above the rest of mankind in such a case as that. I can act with philosophy in such a case as that. I am not warped by prejudices, as an Italian baby is by bandages. I am as free as the air. I feel myself as far above suspicion as Caesar’s wife.’
“恰恰相反，”斯金波尔先生说，“在这种情况下，我正是应该被置于更有利位置的人。”在这种情况下，我高于其他人。在这种情况下我可以用哲学来行事。我没有被偏见扭曲，就像意大利婴儿被绷带扭曲一样。我就像空气一样自由。我觉得自己和凯撒的妻子一样不容怀疑。

Anything to equal the lightness of his manner and the playful impartiality with which he seemed to convince himself, as he tossed the matter about like a ball of feathers, was surely never seen in anybody else!
当他像羽毛球一样把事情抛来抛去时，他的举止轻松自如，而且他似乎说服自己的顽皮的公正性，肯定是其他人从未见过的！

‘Observe the case, my dear Miss Summerson. Here is a boy received into the house and put to bed in a state that I strongly object to. The boy being in bed, a man arrives—like the house that Jack built. Here is the man who demands the boy who is received into the house and put to bed in a state that I strongly object to. Here is a bank-note produced by the man who demands the boy who is received into the house and put to bed in a state that I strongly object to. Here is the Skimpole who accepts the bank-note produced by the man who demands the boy who is received into the house and put to bed in a state that I strongly object to. Those are the facts. Very well. Should the Skimpole have refused the note? WHY should the Skimpole have refused the note? Skimpole protests to Bucket, ‘What’s this for? I don’t understand it, it is of no use to me, take it away.’ Bucket still entreats Skimpole to accept it. Are there reasons why Skimpole, not being warped by prejudices, should accept it? Yes. Skimpole perceives them. What are they? Skimpole reasons with himself, this is a tamed lynx, an active police-officer, an intelligent man, a person of a peculiarly directed energy and great subtlety both of conception and execution, who discovers our friends and enemies for us when they run away, recovers our property for us when we are robbed, avenges us comfortably when we are murdered. This active police-officer and intelligent man has acquired, in the exercise of his art, a strong faith in money; he finds it very useful to him, and he makes it very useful to society. Shall I shake that faith in Bucket because I want it myself; shall I deliberately blunt one of Bucket’s weapons; shall I positively paralyse Bucket in his next detective operation? And again. If it is blameable in Skimpole to take the note, it is blameable in Bucket to offer the note—much more blameable in Bucket, because he is the knowing man. Now, Skimpole wishes to think well of Bucket; Skimpole deems it essential, in its little place, to the general cohesion of things, that he SHOULD think well of Bucket. The state expressly asks him to trust to Bucket. And he does. And that’s all he does!’
“观察这个情况，我亲爱的萨默森小姐。这是一个我强烈反对的男孩被带进屋并放在床上的情况。男孩正在床上，一个男人到来了——就像杰克建造的房子一样。这是一个男人，他要求男孩被带进屋，并以我强烈反对的状态放在床上。这是一张由男子出示的钞票，他要求男孩被带进屋，并以我强烈反对的状态放在床上。斯金波尔接受了一个男人出示的钞票，并要求男孩被带进屋，并以我强烈反对的状态放在床上。这些都是事实。很好。斯金波尔应该拒绝这张纸条吗？为什么斯金波尔要拒绝这张纸条？斯金波尔向巴克特抗议，“这是做什么用的？”我不明白，它对我没有用，把它拿走吧。”巴克特仍然恳求斯基姆波尔接受它。斯金波尔没有被偏见所扭曲，有什么理由应该接受它呢？是的。斯金波尔察觉到了它们。这些是什么？斯金波尔自言自语，这是一只被驯服的山猫，一个活跃的警察，一个聪明的人，一个具有独特的定向能量和构思和执行的高度微妙的人，当我们的朋友和敌人逃跑时，他为我们发现他们，当我们被抢劫时，为我们夺回财产；当我们被谋杀时，为我们报仇。这位活跃的警官和聪明人在他的艺术实践中，对金钱产生了坚定的信念。他发现它对他非常有用，他也让它对社会非常有用。我是否应该动摇对 Bucket 的信心，因为我自己也想要它？我应该故意弄钝巴克特的一把武器吗？我应该在巴克特的下一次侦探行动中积极地瘫痪他吗？然后再次。 如果说斯基姆波尔拿纸条是有罪的，那么巴克特提供纸条就应该受到谴责——而巴克特更应该受到谴责，因为他是知情者。现在，斯金波尔希望对巴克特有好感。斯金波尔认为，就事物的总体凝聚力而言，在其微小的地方，他应该好好考虑巴克特。州政府明确要求他信任巴克特。他确实做到了。这就是他所做的一切！’

I had nothing to offer in reply to this exposition and therefore took my leave. Mr. Skimpole, however, who was in excellent spirits, would not hear of my returning home attended only by ‘Little Coavinses,’ and accompanied me himself. He entertained me on the way with a variety of delightful conversation and assured me, at parting, that he should never forget the fine tact with which I had found that out for him about our young friends.
我对这个解释没有什么可提供的，因此就告辞了。然而，斯金波尔先生心情很好，不肯听到我回家时只有“小科文斯”陪伴，他亲自陪我回家。路上他用各种愉快的谈话招待我，并在临别时向我保证，他永远不会忘记我为他发现我们年轻朋友的巧妙机智。

As it so happened that I never saw Mr. Skimpole again, I may at once finish what I know of his history. A coolness arose between him and my guardian, based principally on the foregoing grounds and on his having heartlessly disregarded my guardian’s entreaties (as we afterwards learned from Ada) in reference to Richard. His being heavily in my guardian’s debt had nothing to do with their separation. He died some five years afterwards and left a diary behind him, with letters and other materials towards his life, which was published and which showed him to have been the victim of a combination on the part of mankind against an amiable child. It was considered very pleasant reading, but I never read more of it myself than the sentence on which I chanced to light on opening the book. It was this: ‘Jarndyce, in common with most other men I have known, is the incarnation of selfishness.’
碰巧我再也没有见过斯金波尔先生，所以我可以立即讲完我所知道的关于他的历史。他和我的监护人之间出现了冷淡，主要是基于上述理由，以及他无情地无视我监护人对理查德的恳求（正如我们后来从艾达那里得知的那样）。他欠我监护人的债与他们的分居无关。大约五年后，他去世了，留下了一本日记，其中有信件和其他有关他生活的材料，这些日记被出版，表明他是人类联合起来对付一个可爱的孩子的受害者。这本书被认为是非常令人愉快的读物，但我自己读到的内容最多不过是我打开这本书时偶然看到的那句话。正是这样：“与我所认识的大多数其他男人一样，贾迪斯是自私的化身。”

And now I come to a part of my story touching myself very nearly indeed, and for which I was quite unprepared when the circumstance occurred. Whatever little lingerings may have now and then revived in my mind associated with my poor old face had only revived as belonging to a part of my life that was gone—gone like my infancy or my childhood. I have suppressed none of my many weaknesses on that subject, but have written them as faithfully as my memory has recalled them. And I hope to do, and mean to do, the same down to the last words of these pages, which I see now not so very far before me.
现在，我的故事的一部分确实非常触动我自己，而当情况发生时我对此毫无准备。无论那些与我可怜的老脸相关的小事时不时地在我脑海中浮现，都只是作为属于我生命中已经消失的一部分而复活——就像我的婴儿期或童年一样。我并没有隐瞒自己在这个问题上的许多弱点，而是按照我的记忆所回忆的那样忠实地写下了它们。我希望也打算这样做，直到这几页的最后几个字，我现在就看到这些内容就在我眼前。

The months were gliding away, and my dear girl, sustained by the hopes she had confided in me, was the same beautiful star in the miserable corner. Richard, more worn and haggard, haunted the court day after day, listlessly sat there the whole day long when he knew there was no remote chance of the suit being mentioned, and became one of the stock sights of the place. I wonder whether any of the gentlemen remembered him as he was when he first went there.
几个月过去了，我亲爱的女儿，靠她向我吐露的希望支撑着，成为悲惨角落里那颗美丽的星星。理查德更加疲惫和憔悴，日复一日地出没在法庭上，当他知道诉讼案被提及的可能性微乎其微时，他无精打采地坐了一整天，成为了这个地方的常见景观之一。我不知道是否有先生还记得他第一次去那里时的样子。

So completely was he absorbed in his fixed idea that he used to avow in his cheerful moments that he should never have breathed the fresh air now ‘but for Woodcourt.’ It was only Mr. Woodcourt who could occasionally divert his attention for a few hours at a time and rouse him, even when he sunk into a lethargy of mind and body that alarmed us greatly, and the returns of which became more frequent as the months went on. My dear girl was right in saying that he only pursued his errors the more desperately for her sake. I have no doubt that his desire to retrieve what he had lost was rendered the more intense by his grief for his young wife, and became like the madness of a gamester.
他完全沉浸在自己固定的想法中，以至于他常常在快乐的时刻发誓，“如果不是伍德考特”，他现在根本不应该呼吸新鲜空气。只有伍德考特先生才能偶尔转移他的注意力几个小时。即使他的身心陷入昏睡状态，这也让我们非常震惊，而且随着时间的推移，这种情况的出现变得更加频繁。我亲爱的女孩说得对，他只是为了她而更加拼命地追寻自己的错误。我毫不怀疑，他对年轻妻子的悲伤使他想要找回失去的东西的愿望更加强烈，变得像赌徒一样疯狂。

I was there, as I have mentioned, at all hours. When I was there at night, I generally went home with Charley in a coach; sometimes my guardian would meet me in the neighbourhood, and we would walk home together. One evening he had arranged to meet me at eight o’clock. I could not leave, as I usually did, quite punctually at the time, for I was working for my dear girl and had a few stitches more to do to finish what I was about; but it was within a few minutes of the hour when I bundled up my little work-basket, gave my darling my last kiss for the night, and hurried downstairs. Mr. Woodcourt went with me, as it was dusk.
正如我所提到的，我随时都在那里。当我晚上在那里的时候，我通常会和查理一起乘坐马车回家。有时我的监护人会在附近遇见我，我们会一起走回家。一天晚上，他约好八点钟来见我。我当时无法像往常一样准时离开，因为我正在为我亲爱的女儿工作，还需要缝几针才能完成我的工作；但不到几分钟，我就收拾好我的小工作篮，给了我亲爱的今晚最后一个吻，然后匆匆下了楼。伍德考特先生和我一起去，因为当时是黄昏。

When we came to the usual place of meeting—it was close by, and Mr. Woodcourt had often accompanied me before—my guardian was not there. We waited half an hour, walking up and down, but there were no signs of him. We agreed that he was either prevented from coming or that he had come and gone away, and Mr. Woodcourt proposed to walk home with me.
当我们来到平常见面的地方时——就在附近，伍德考特先生以前也经常陪我——我的监护人不在那里。我们等了半个小时，走来走去，却不见他的踪影。我们一致认为，他要么被阻止来，要么他来了又走了，伍德考特先生提议和我一起走回家。

It was the first walk we had ever taken together, except that very short one to the usual place of meeting. We spoke of Richard and Ada the whole way. I did not thank him in words for what he had done—my appreciation of it had risen above all words then—but I hoped he might not be without some understanding of what I felt so strongly.
这是我们第一次一起散步，除了到通常见面地点的那条路很短。我们一路上都在谈论理查德和艾达。我没有用言语感谢他所做的事情——当时我对他的感激之情已经超过了任何言语——但我希望他不会不理解我如此强烈的感受。

Arriving at home and going upstairs, we found that my guardian was out and that Mrs. Woodcourt was out too. We were in the very same room into which I had brought my blushing girl when her youthful lover, now her so altered husband, was the choice of her young heart, the very same room from which my guardian and I had watched them going away through the sunlight in the fresh bloom of their hope and promise.
到家上楼后，我们发现我的监护人出去了，伍德考特夫人也出去了。我们就在同一个房间里，我把我脸红的女孩带进了同一个房间，当时她年轻的情人，现在是她改变了的丈夫，是她年轻的心的选择，也是我和我的监护人看着他们离开的同一个房间。他们的希望和承诺在阳光下绽放。

We were standing by the opened window looking down into the street when Mr. Woodcourt spoke to me. I learned in a moment that he loved me. I learned in a moment that my scarred face was all unchanged to him. I learned in a moment that what I had thought was pity and compassion was devoted, generous, faithful love. Oh, too late to know it now, too late, too late. That was the first ungrateful thought I had. Too late.
当伍德考特先生对我说话时，我们正站在打开的窗户旁，俯视着街道。在那一刻我知道他爱我。刹那间我发现，我那张伤痕累累的脸对他来说毫无改变。刹那间我明白了，我所认为的怜悯和慈悲其实是忠诚、慷慨、忠实的爱。哦，现在知道已经太晚了，太晚了，太晚了。这是我第一个忘恩负义的想法。为时已晚。

‘When I returned,’ he told me, ‘when I came back, no richer than when I went away, and found you newly risen from a sick bed, yet so inspired by sweet consideration for others and so free from a selfish thought—‘
“当我回来时，”他告诉我，“当我回来时，并不比我离开时更富有，发现你刚从病床上爬起来，却如此受到对他人的甜蜜关怀的启发，如此摆脱了自私的想法—— '

‘Oh, Mr. Woodcourt, forbear, forbear!’ I entreated him. ‘I do not deserve your high praise. I had many selfish thoughts at that time, many!’
“哦，伍德考特先生，忍住，忍住！”我恳求他。 ‘我不值得你的高度赞扬。我当时有很多自私的想法，很多！

‘Heaven knows, beloved of my life,’ said he, ‘that my praise is not a lover’s praise, but the truth. You do not know what all around you see in Esther Summerson, how many hearts she touches and awakens, what sacred admiration and what love she wins.’
“天知道，我一生的挚爱，”他说，“我的赞美不是情人的赞美，而是事实。”你不知道你在埃丝特·萨默森身上看到了什么，她触动和唤醒了多少人的心，她赢得了多少神圣的钦佩和爱。”

‘Oh, Mr. Woodcourt,’ cried I, ‘it is a great thing to win love, it is a great thing to win love! I am proud of it, and honoured by it; and the hearing of it causes me to shed these tears of mingled joy and sorrow—joy that I have won it, sorrow that I have not deserved it better; but I am not free to think of yours.’
“哦，伍德考特先生，”我喊道，“赢得爱情是一件伟大的事情，赢得爱情是一件伟大的事情！我为此感到自豪，并以此为荣；听到这个消息，我流下了喜悦与悲伤交织的泪水——喜悦是我赢得了它，悲伤是我没有得到更好的奖赏。但我不能自由地想你的。

I said it with a stronger heart, for when he praised me thus and when I heard his voice thrill with his belief that what he said was true, I aspired to be more worthy of it. It was not too late for that. Although I closed this unforeseen page in my life to-night, I could be worthier of it all through my life. And it was a comfort to me, and an impulse to me, and I felt a dignity rise up within me that was derived from him when I thought so.
我怀着更坚强的心说这句话，因为当他这样称赞我时，当我听到他的声音因他相信他所说的是真的而激动时，我渴望更配得上它。现在还不算太晚。尽管今晚我结束了生命中这不可预见的一页，但我一生都可以更值得它。这对我来说是一种安慰，对我来说是一种冲动，当我这么想时，我感到一种来自他的尊严在我内心升起。

He broke the silence.
他打破了沉默。

‘I should poorly show the trust that I have in the dear one who will evermore be as dear to me as now’—and the deep earnestness with which he said it at once strengthened me and made me weep— ‘if, after her assurance that she is not free to think of my love, I urged it. Dear Esther, let me only tell you that the fond idea of you which I took abroad was exalted to the heavens when I came home. I have always hoped, in the first hour when I seemed to stand in any ray of good fortune, to tell you this. I have always feared that I should tell it you in vain. My hopes and fears are both fulfilled to-night. I distress you. I have said enough.’
“我不应该表现出我对亲爱的人的信任，他将永远像现在一样对我来说是亲爱的”——他说这句话时所表现出的深深的诚挚立刻使我坚强起来，让我哭泣——“如果在她保证之后“她不能自由地思考我的爱，”我催促道。亲爱的埃丝特，我只能告诉你，当我回到家时，我在国外对你的好感已升上天堂。我一直希望，在我似乎处于幸运之光的第一个小时里，能告诉你这一点。我一直担心我告诉你是徒劳的。我的希望和恐惧今晚都实现了。我心疼你了。我已经说得够多了。

Something seemed to pass into my place that was like the angel he thought me, and I felt so sorrowful for the loss he had sustained! I wished to help him in his trouble, as I had wished to do when he showed that first commiseration for me.
似乎有什么东西进入了我的位置，就像他心目中的天使一样，我为他所遭受的损失感到非常悲伤！我希望帮助他摆脱困境，正如他最初对我表示同情时我所希望的那样。

‘Dear Mr. Woodcourt,’ said I, ‘before we part to-night, something is left for me to say. I never could say it as I wish—I never shall—but—‘
“亲爱的伍德考特先生，”我说，“在我们今晚分手之前，我有件事要说。我永远无法如我所愿地说出来——我永远不会——但是——”

I had to think again of being more deserving of his love and his affliction before I could go on.
在我继续前进之前，我必须再次思考是否更值得他的爱和他的痛苦。

‘—I am deeply sensible of your generosity, and I shall treasure its remembrance to my dying hour. I know full well how changed I am, I know you are not unacquainted with my history, and I know what a noble love that is which is so faithful. What you have said to me could have affected me so much from no other lips, for there are none that could give it such a value to me. It shall not be lost. It shall make me better.’
“——我深深地感受到你的慷慨，我将珍惜它，直到我临死之时。我很清楚我的变化有多大，我知道你对我的历史并不陌生，我知道那是一种多么崇高而忠诚的爱。你对我说的话不可能从其他人嘴里对我产生如此大的影响，因为没有人能给我如此的价值。它不会丢失。它会让我变得更好。

He covered his eyes with his hand and turned away his head. How could I ever be worthy of those tears?
他用手捂住眼睛，转过头去。我怎么配得上那些泪水？

‘If, in the unchanged intercourse we shall have together—in tending Richard and Ada, and I hope in many happier scenes of life —you ever find anything in me which you can honestly think is better than it used to be, believe that it will have sprung up from to-night and that I shall owe it to you. And never believe, dear dear Mr. Woodcourt, never believe that I forget this night or that while my heart beats it can be insensible to the pride and joy of having been beloved by you.’
“如果，在我们在一起不变的交往中——照顾理查德和艾达，我希望在生活中许多更幸福的场景中——你在我身上发现了任何你可以诚实地认为比以前更好的东西，相信它从今晚开始，我将把它归功于你。永远不要相信，亲爱的伍德考特先生，永远不要相信我会忘记这个夜晚，或者当我的心脏跳动时，它会麻木不仁地感受到被你所爱的骄傲和喜悦。

He took my hand and kissed it. He was like himself again, and I felt still more encouraged.
他握住我的手并吻了它。他又恢复了原来的样子，我更加受到鼓舞。

‘I am induced by what you said just now,’ said I, ‘to hope that you have succeeded in your endeavour.’
“我被你刚才的话所吸引，”我说，“希望你的努力能够成功。”

‘I have,’ he answered. ‘With such help from Mr. Jarndyce as you who know him so well can imagine him to have rendered me, I have succeeded.’
“我有，”他回答。 “在贾迪斯先生的帮助下，你们这些非常了解他的人都可以想象他是如何成就了我，我成功了。”

‘Heaven bless him for it,’ said I, giving him my hand; ‘and heaven bless you in all you do!’
“愿上帝保佑他，”我一边说，一边把手伸给他。 “愿上天保佑你所做的一切！”

‘I shall do it better for the wish,’ he answered; ‘it will make me enter on these new duties as on another sacred trust from you.’
“为了这个愿望，我会做得更好。”他回答道。 “这将使我承担起这些新的职责，就像接受您的另一项神圣委托一样。”

‘Ah! Richard!’ I exclaimed involuntarily, ‘What will he do when you are gone!’
'啊！理查德！”我不由自主地喊道，“你走了之后他会做什么！”

‘I am not required to go yet; I would not desert him, dear Miss Summerson, even if I were.’
“我还没有被要求去；亲爱的萨默森小姐，即使我愿意，我也不会抛弃他。

One other thing I felt it needful to touch upon before he left me. I knew that I should not be worthier of the love I could not take if I reserved it.
在他离开我之前，我觉得有必要谈一谈另一件事。我知道如果我保留了我无法接受的爱，我就不会更值得。

‘Mr. Woodcourt,’ said I, ‘you will be glad to know from my lips before I say good night that in the future, which is clear and bright before me, I am most happy, most fortunate, have nothing to regret or desire.’
'先生。 “伍德考特先生，”我说，“在我说晚安之前，你会很高兴从我的嘴里知道，在我面前清晰明亮的未来，我是最幸福的，最幸运的，没有什么可后悔或渴望的。”

It was indeed a glad hearing to him, he replied.
他回答说，这对他来说确实是一个很高兴的事情。

‘From my childhood I have been,’ said I, ‘the object of the untiring goodness of the best of human beings, to whom I am so bound by every tie of attachment, gratitude, and love, that nothing I could do in the compass of a life could express the feelings of a single day.’
我说：“从我的童年起，我就一直是最优秀的人类的不懈善良的对象，我对他们的依恋、感激和爱是如此紧密地联系在一起，以至于我在这个世界上什么也做不了。”生命的罗盘可以表达一天的感受。

‘I share those feelings,’ he returned. ‘You speak of Mr. Jarndyce.’
“我也有同样的感受，”他回答道。 “你说的是贾迪斯先生。”

‘You know his virtues well,’ said I, ‘but few can know the greatness of his character as I know it. All its highest and best qualities have been revealed to me in nothing more brightly than in the shaping out of that future in which I am so happy. And if your highest homage and respect had not been his already—which I know they are—they would have been his, I think, on this assurance and in the feeling it would have awakened in you towards him for my sake.’
“你很了解他的美德，”我说，“但很少有人能像我一样了解他性格的伟大之处。”它的所有最高和最好的品质都在我如此幸福的未来的塑造中更加明亮地向我展示。如果你还没有向他致以最高的敬意和尊重——我知道它们是——我想，基于这种保证和这种感觉，你会为了我而对他产生敬意和尊重。

He fervently replied that indeed indeed they would have been. I gave him my hand again.
他热切地回答说，确实如此。我再次把手伸给他。

‘Good night,’ I said, ‘Good-bye.’
“晚安，”我说，“再见。”

‘The first until we meet to-morrow, the second as a farewell to this theme between us for ever.’
“第一个直到我们明天见面，第二个是我们之间永远告别这个主题。”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Good night; good-bye.’
'晚安;再见。'

He left me, and I stood at the dark window watching the street. His love, in all its constancy and generosity, had come so suddenly upon me that he had not left me a minute when my fortitude gave way again and the street was blotted out by my rushing tears.
他离开了我，我站在黑暗的窗前看着街道。他的爱，以其坚定不移和慷慨，来得如此突然，以至于他一分钟没有离开我，我的毅力又消失了，街道被我汹涌的泪水淹没了。

But they were not tears of regret and sorrow. No. He had called me the beloved of his life and had said I would be evermore as dear to him as I was then, and I felt as if my heart would not hold the triumph of having heard those words. My first wild thought had died away. It was not too late to hear them, for it was not too late to be animated by them to be good, true, grateful, and contented. How easy my path, how much easier than his!
但它们并不是悔恨和悲伤的眼泪。不。他称我为他生命中的挚爱，并说我将永远像当时一样亲爱的，而我感觉我的心似乎无法承受听到这些话的胜利。我第一个疯狂的想法已经消失了。现在聆听他们的声音还不算太晚，因为被他们激励起来变得善良、真实、感恩和满足还不算太晚。我的路多么容易，比他的容易得多！

CHAPTER LXII
第六十二章


Another Discovery
另一个发现

I had not the courage to see any one that night. I had not even the courage to see myself, for I was afraid that my tears might a little reproach me. I went up to my room in the dark, and prayed in the dark, and lay down in the dark to sleep. I had no need of any light to read my guardian’s letter by, for I knew it by heart. I took it from the place where I kept it, and repeated its contents by its own clear light of integrity and love, and went to sleep with it on my pillow.
那天晚上我没有勇气去见任何人。我连看自己的勇气都没有，因为我害怕我的眼泪会责备我。我在黑暗中回到自己的房间，在黑暗中祈祷，然后在黑暗中躺下睡觉。我不需要任何灯光来阅读我监护人的信，因为我已经熟记在心了。我把它从我放它的地方拿出来，用它自己清晰的正直和爱的光芒重复了它的内容，然后把它放在枕头上睡觉了。

I was up very early in the morning and called Charley to come for a walk. We bought flowers for the breakfast-table, and came back and arranged them, and were as busy as possible. We were so early that I had a good time still for Charley’s lesson before breakfast; Charley (who was not in the least improved in the old defective article of grammar) came through it with great applause; and we were altogether very notable. When my guardian appeared he said, ‘Why, little woman, you look fresher than your flowers!’ And Mrs. Woodcourt repeated and translated a passage from the Mewlinnwillinwodd expressive of my being like a mountain with the sun upon it.
我一大早起床，打电话给查理来散步。我们买了早餐桌上的鲜花，回来后把它们摆好，忙得不可开交。我们来得很早，所以早餐前我仍然很开心地听查理的课。查理（他在旧有缺陷的语法文章中没有丝毫进步）在热烈的掌声中完成了它。我们都是非常引人注目的。当我的监护人出现时，他说：“嘿，小女人，你看起来比你的花还新鲜！”伍德考特夫人重复并翻译了《Mewlinnwillinwodd》中的一段话，表达了我就像一座阳光照耀的山。

This was all so pleasant that I hope it made me still more like the mountain than I had been before. After breakfast I waited my opportunity and peeped about a little until I saw my guardian in his own room—the room of last night—by himself. Then I made an excuse to go in with my housekeeping keys, shutting the door after me.
这一切是如此令人愉快，我希望这能让我比以前更加喜欢这座山。早餐后，我等待机会，四处张望，直到我看到我的监护人独自一人在他自己的房间里——昨晚的房间里。然后我借口拿着家务钥匙进去，关上了门。

‘Well, Dame Durden?’ said my guardian; the post had brought him several letters, and he was writing. ‘You want money?’
“怎么样，德登夫人？”我的监护人说道。邮局给他带来了几封信，他正在写信。 '你想要钱？'

‘No, indeed, I have plenty in hand.’
“不，确实，我手上还有很多。”

‘There never was such a Dame Durden,’ said my guardian, ‘for making money last.’
我的监护人说：“从来没有一位杜登夫人能把钱放在最后。”

He had laid down his pen and leaned back in his chair looking at me. I have often spoken of his bright face, but I thought I had never seen it look so bright and good. There was a high happiness upon it which made me think, ‘He has been doing some great kindness this morning.’
他放下笔，靠在椅子上看着我。我经常说起他那张明亮的脸，但我想我从来没有见过它看起来如此明亮和美好。它充满了高度的幸福感，让我想：“他今天早上做了一些伟大的善事。”

‘There never was,’ said my guardian, musing as he smiled upon me, ‘such a Dame Durden for making money last.’
“从来没有，”我的监护人一边对我微笑，一边若有所思地说，“杜登夫人是最后才赚钱的。”

He had never yet altered his old manner. I loved it and him so much that when I now went up to him and took my usual chair, which was always put at his side—for sometimes I read to him, and sometimes I talked to him, and sometimes I silently worked by him— I hardly liked to disturb it by laying my hand on his breast. But I found I did not disturb it at all.
他从来没有改变过他的旧作风。我非常喜欢它和他，以至于当我走到他面前，坐在我常用的椅子上时，它总是放在他身边——因为有时我读书给他听，有时我和他说话，有时我默默地在他身边工作——我几乎不喜欢把手放在他的胸口上来打扰它。但我发现我根本没有打扰它。

‘Dear guardian,’ said I, ‘I want to speak to you. Have I been remiss in anything?’
“亲爱的监护人，”我说，“我想和你谈谈。”我有什么疏忽吗？

‘Remiss in anything, my dear!’
“做任何事都不能疏忽，亲爱的！”

‘Have I not been what I have meant to be since—I brought the answer to your letter, guardian?’
“自从我给你的信带来回信以来，我难道就没有成为我应该成为的人吗，监护人？”

‘You have been everything I could desire, my love.’
“我的爱人，你就是我所渴望的一切。”

‘I am very glad indeed to hear that,’ I returned. ‘You know, you said to me, was this the mistress of Bleak House. And I said, yes.’
“我确实很高兴听到这个消息，”我回答道。 ‘你知道吗，你对我说，这就是荒凉山庄的女主人。我说，是的。

‘Yes,’ said my guardian, nodding his head. He had put his arm about me as if there were something to protect me from and looked in my face, smiling.
“是的，”我的监护人点点头说道。他用手臂搂住我，仿佛有什么东西可以保护我，并微笑着看着我的脸。

‘Since then,’ said I, ‘we have never spoken on the subject except once.’
“从那时起，”我说，“除了一次之外，我们再也没有谈论过这个话题。”

‘And then I said Bleak House was thinning fast; and so it was, my dear.’
“然后我说《荒凉山庄》正在迅速减少；事情就是这样，亲爱的。”

‘And I said,’ I timidly reminded him, ‘but its mistress remained.’
“我说过，”我胆怯地提醒他，“但它的女主人仍然存在。”

He still held me in the same protecting manner and with the same bright goodness in his face.
他仍然以同样的保护方式抱着我，脸上仍然带着同样明亮的善良。

‘Dear guardian,’ said I, ‘I know how you have felt all that has happened, and how considerate you have been. As so much time has passed, and as you spoke only this morning of my being so well again, perhaps you expect me to renew the subject. Perhaps I ought to do so. I will be the mistress of Bleak House when you please.’
“亲爱的监护人，”我说，“我知道你对所发生的一切有什么感受，也知道你是多么体贴。时间已经过去了，而且你今天早上才谈到我的情况又恢复得这么好，也许你希望我重新讨论这个话题。也许我应该这样做。只要你愿意，我就会成为《荒凉山庄》的女主人。

‘See,’ he returned gaily, ‘what a sympathy there must be between us! I have had nothing else, poor Rick excepted—it’s a large exception—in my mind. When you came in, I was full of it. When shall we give Bleak House its mistress, little woman?’
“瞧，”他高兴地回答道，“我们之间一定有多么同情啊！在我看来，除可怜的瑞克外，我一无所有——这是一个很大的例外。当你进来的时候，我已经充满了它。我们什么时候才能让荒凉山庄成为她的女主人，小女人？

‘When you please.’
“只要你愿意。”

‘Next month?’
'下个月？'

‘Next month, dear guardian.’
“下个月，亲爱的监护人。”

‘The day on which I take the happiest and best step of my life—the day on which I shall be a man more exulting and more enviable than any other man in the world—the day on which I give Bleak House its little mistress—shall be next month then,’ said my guardian.
“在这一天，我迈出了一生中最幸福、最美好的一步，在这一天，我将成为一个比世界上任何其他人都更兴奋、更令人羡慕的人，在这一天，我给《荒凉山庄》一个小女主人——那就下个月吧，”我的监护人说。

I put my arms round his neck and kissed him just as I had done on the day when I brought my answer.
我用双臂搂住他的脖子，亲吻他，就像我带来答案的那一天一样。

A servant came to the door to announce Mr. Bucket, which was quite unnecessary, for Mr. Bucket was already looking in over the servant’s shoulder. ‘Mr. Jarndyce and Miss Summerson,’ said he, rather out of breath, ‘with all apologies for intruding, WILL you allow me to order up a person that’s on the stairs and that objects to being left there in case of becoming the subject of observations in his absence? Thank you. Be so good as chair that there member in this direction, will you?’ said Mr. Bucket, beckoning over the banisters.
一个仆人走到门口通报巴克特先生，这完全没有必要，因为巴克特先生已经越过仆人的肩膀往里看。 '先生。贾迪斯和萨默森小姐，”他气喘吁吁地说，“对于打扰您深表歉意，请允许我命令一个在楼梯上的人，他反对留在那儿，以防成为观察的对象。他的缺席？谢谢。 “当好主席，让这个方向有成员，好吗？”巴克特先生一边说，一边在栏杆上招手。

This singular request produced an old man in a black skull-cap, unable to walk, who was carried up by a couple of bearers and deposited in the room near the door. Mr. Bucket immediately got rid of the bearers, mysteriously shut the door, and bolted it.
这个奇特的要求催生了一位头戴黑色小便帽、无法行走的老人，由几个轿夫抬了出来，放在靠近门的房间里。巴克特先生立即摆脱了轿夫，神秘地关上了门，并上了锁。

‘Now you see, Mr. Jarndyce,’ he then began, putting down his hat and opening his subject with a flourish of his well-remembered finger, ‘you know me, and Miss Summerson knows me. This gentleman likewise knows me, and his name is Smallweed. The discounting line is his line principally, and he’s what you may call a dealer in bills. That’s about what YOU are, you know, ain’t you?’ said Mr. Bucket, stopping a little to address the gentleman in question, who was exceedingly suspicious of him.
“现在你看，贾迪斯先生，”他放下帽子，用他那记忆深刻的手指一挥，开始了他的话题，“你认识我，萨默森小姐也认识我。”这位先生也认识我，他的名字叫斯莫威德。贴现线主要是他的线，他就是你所说的票据经销商。 “这就是你的身份，你知道，不是吗？”巴克特先生稍稍停下来对那位对他非常怀疑的绅士说道。

He seemed about to dispute this designation of himself when he was seized with a violent fit of coughing.
当他突然剧烈咳嗽时，他似乎正要对自己的这一称呼提出异议。

‘Now, moral, you know!’ said Mr. Bucket, improving the accident. ‘Don’t you contradict when there ain’t no occasion, and you won’t be took in that way. Now, Mr. Jarndyce, I address myself to you. I’ve been negotiating with this gentleman on behalf of Sir Leicester Dedlock, Baronet, and one way and another I’ve been in and out and about his premises a deal. His premises are the premises formerly occupied by Krook, marine store dealer—a relation of this gentleman’s that you saw in his life-time if I don’t mistake?’
“现在，道德，你知道！”巴克特先生说道，改善了这次事故。 ‘没有必要的时候不要反驳，这样你就不会被那样对待了。现在，贾迪斯先生，我向您讲话。我一直代表莱斯特·戴德洛克男爵爵士与这位绅士进行谈判，我也曾多次进出过他的住所，就一笔交易达成了协议。他的住所是海事商店经销商克鲁克以前住过的地方——如果我没记错的话，你在生前见过这位先生的亲戚？

My guardian replied, ‘Yes.’
我的监护人回答说：“是的。”

‘Well! You are to understand,’ said Mr. Bucket, ‘that this gentleman he come into Krook’s property, and a good deal of magpie property there was. Vast lots of waste-paper among the rest. Lord bless you, of no use to nobody!’
'出色地！你要明白，”巴克特先生说，“这位先生进入了克鲁克的财产，那里有很多喜鹊的财产。其中还有大量废纸。上帝保佑你，对任何人都没有用！

The cunning of Mr. Bucket’s eye and the masterly manner in which he contrived, without a look or a word against which his watchful auditor could protest, to let us know that he stated the case according to previous agreement and could say much more of Mr. Smallweed if he thought it advisable, deprived us of any merit in quite understanding him. His difficulty was increased by Mr. Smallweed’s being deaf as well as suspicious and watching his face with the closest attention.
巴克特先生狡猾的眼睛和巧妙的方式，没有让他警惕的审计员可以抗议的一个表情或一句话，让我们知道他按照先前的协议陈述了这个情况，并且可以对先生说更多的话。如果斯莫尔威德认为这是明智的，那么我们就没有任何充分了解他的优点了。斯莫尔韦德先生既聋又多疑，而且全神贯注地看着他的脸，这增加了他的困难。

‘Among them odd heaps of old papers, this gentleman, when he comes into the property, naturally begins to rummage, don’t you see?’ said Mr. Bucket.
“在这些奇怪的旧文件堆中，这位先生一进屋，自然就开始翻找，你没看到吗？”巴克特先生说。

‘To which? Say that again,’ cried Mr. Smallweed in a shrill, sharp voice.
‘到哪个？ “再说一遍。”斯莫尔韦德先生用尖锐的声音喊道。

‘To rummage,’ repeated Mr. Bucket. ‘Being a prudent man and accustomed to take care of your own affairs, you begin to rummage among the papers as you have come into; don’t you?’
“翻找，”巴克特先生重复道。 “作为一个谨慎的人，习惯于处理自己的事情，你开始翻阅你所得到的文件；你不是吗？

‘Of course I do,’ cried Mr. Smallweed.
“我当然知道，”斯莫威德先生喊道。

‘Of course you do,’ said Mr. Bucket conversationally, ‘and much to blame you would be if you didn’t. And so you chance to find, you know,’ Mr. Bucket went on, stooping over him with an air of cheerful raillery which Mr. Smallweed by no means reciprocated, ‘and so you chance to find, you know, a paper with the signature of Jarndyce to it. Don’t you?’
“你当然知道，”巴克特先生闲聊地说，“如果你不这样做，你就会受到很大的责备。”所以你有机会找到，你知道，”巴克特先生继续说道，弯下身子，脸上带着一种愉快的嘲讽的神情，斯莫尔韦德先生却没有回应，“所以你有机会找到，你知道，一份带有贾迪斯的签名。你不是吗？

Mr. Smallweed glanced with a troubled eye at us and grudgingly nodded assent.
斯莫威德先生用困惑的眼神看了我们一眼，勉强点头表示同意。

‘And coming to look at that paper at your full leisure and convenience—all in good time, for you’re not curious to read it, and why should you be?—what do you find it to be but a will, you see. That’s the drollery of it,’ said Mr. Bucket with the same lively air of recalling a joke for the enjoyment of Mr. Smallweed, who still had the same crest-fallen appearance of not enjoying it at all; ‘what do you find it to be but a will?’
“在你完全闲暇和方便的时候来看看那篇论文——一切都恰逢其时，因为你并不好奇去读它，你为什么应该好奇呢？——你发现它除了一份遗嘱之外还有什么，你瞧。 “这就是滑稽之处。”巴克特先生说道，语气中带着同样活泼的神情，就像回忆起斯莫威德先生的一个笑话一样，而斯莫威德先生仍然一副垂头丧气的样子，根本不喜欢这个笑话。 “你认为这除了遗嘱之外还有什么？”

‘I don’t know that it’s good as a will or as anything else,’ snarled Mr. Smallweed.
“我不知道它作为遗嘱或其他什么东西好，”斯莫威德先生咆哮道。

Mr. Bucket eyed the old man for a moment—he had slipped and shrunk down in his chair into a mere bundle—as if he were much disposed to pounce upon him; nevertheless, he continued to bend over him with the same agreeable air, keeping the corner of one of his eyes upon us.
”尽管如此，他仍然以同样令人愉快的神情向他俯身，用眼角的余光看着我们。

‘Notwithstanding which,’ said Mr. Bucket, ‘you get a little doubtful and uncomfortable in your mind about it, having a very tender mind of your own.’
“尽管如此，”巴克特先生说，“你的内心还是会感到有点怀疑和不安，因为你自己的内心非常温柔。”

‘Eh? What do you say I have got of my own?’ asked Mr. Smallweed with his hand to his ear.
‘呃？ “你说我自己有什么？”斯莫威德先生用手捂住耳朵问道。

‘A very tender mind.’
“一颗非常温柔的心。”

‘Ho! Well, go on,’ said Mr. Smallweed.
‘嗬！好吧，继续吧，”斯莫威德先生说。

‘And as you’ve heard a good deal mentioned regarding a celebrated Chancery will case of the same name, and as you know what a card Krook was for buying all manner of old pieces of furniter, and books, and papers, and what not, and never liking to part with ‘em, and always a-going to teach himself to read, you begin to think— and you never was more correct in your born days—‘Ecod, if I don’t look about me, I may get into trouble regarding this will.’’
“正如你所听到的，关于一个著名的大法官法庭的同名案件，你也知道，克鲁克是一张什么样的卡片，可以用来购买各种旧家具、书籍、纸张等等。” ，并且永远不想与他们分开，并且总是要自学读书，你开始思考——在你出生的时候你从来没有这么正确过——“Ecod，如果我不看看我自己，我可能会因这份遗嘱而陷入麻烦。”

‘Now, mind how you put it, Bucket,’ cried the old man anxiously with his hand at his ear. ‘Speak up; none of your brimstone tricks. Pick me up; I want to hear better. Oh, Lord, I am shaken to bits!’
“现在，注意你怎么说，巴克特，”老人把手放在耳边焦急地喊道。 ‘说出来；没有你的硫磺伎俩。接我;我想听得更好。哦，主啊，我被震撼了！

Mr. Bucket had certainly picked him up at a dart. However, as soon as he could be heard through Mr. Smallweed’s coughing and his vicious ejaculations of ‘Oh, my bones! Oh, dear! I’ve no breath in my body! I’m worse than the chattering, clattering, brimstone pig at home!’ Mr. Bucket proceeded in the same convivial manner as before.
巴克特先生确实一下子就抓住了他。然而，一听到斯莫威德先生的咳嗽声和恶毒的“哦，我的骨头！”的声音，就听到了他的声音。哦亲爱的！我的身体已经没有气息了！ “我比家里那头喋喋不休、喋喋不休的硫磺猪还糟糕！”巴克特先生继续以和以前一样愉快的方式进行。

‘So, as I happen to be in the habit of coming about your premises, you take me into your confidence, don’t you?’
“所以，由于我碰巧习惯到你的住所，你就信任我了，不是吗？”

I think it would be impossible to make an admission with more ill will and a worse grace than Mr. Smallweed displayed when he admitted this, rendering it perfectly evident that Mr. Bucket was the very last person he would have thought of taking into his confidence if he could by any possibility have kept him out of it.
我认为斯莫威德先生在承认这一点时所表现出的恶意和优雅是不可能的，这充分表明巴克特先生是他最不想信任的人如果他能有任何可能让他远离这件事就好了。

‘And I go into the business with you—very pleasant we are over it; and I confirm you in your well-founded fears that you will get yourself into a most precious line if you don’t come out with that there will,’ said Mr. Bucket emphatically; ‘and accordingly you arrange with me that it shall be delivered up to this present Mr. Jarndyce, on no conditions. If it should prove to be valuable, you trusting yourself to him for your reward; that’s about where it is, ain’t it?’
“我和你一起谈这件事——非常高兴我们已经结束了； “我证实你有充分的理由担心，如果你不这样做，你就会陷入最宝贵的境地，”巴克特先生强调道。 “因此，您与我安排，将其无条件地交给在场的贾迪斯先生。如果它被证明是有价值的，你就相信他会给你回报；这就是它所在的地方，不是吗？

‘That’s what was agreed,’ Mr. Smallweed assented with the same bad grace.
“这就是商定的事，”斯莫威德先生同样不客气地表示同意。

‘In consequence of which,’ said Mr. Bucket, dismissing his agreeable manner all at once and becoming strictly businesslike, ‘you’ve got that will upon your person at the present time, and the only thing that remains for you to do is just to out with it!’
“因此，”巴克特先生说，他立刻抛弃了他那令人愉快的态度，变得严格公事公办，“你现在已经有了这个意愿，唯一剩下你要做的就是只是为了摆脱它！

Having given us one glance out of the watching corner of his eye, and having given his nose one triumphant rub with his forefinger, Mr. Bucket stood with his eyes fastened on his confidential friend and his hand stretched forth ready to take the paper and present it to my guardian. It was not produced without much reluctance and many declarations on the part of Mr. Smallweed that he was a poor industrious man and that he left it to Mr. Jarndyce’s honour not to let him lose by his honesty. Little by little he very slowly took from a breast-pocket a stained, discoloured paper which was much singed upon the outside and a little burnt at the edges, as if it had long ago been thrown upon a fire and hastily snatched off again. Mr. Bucket lost no time in transferring this paper, with the dexterity of a conjuror, from Mr. Smallweed to Mr. Jarndyce. As he gave it to my guardian, he whispered behind his fingers, ‘Hadn’t settled how to make their market of it. Quarrelled and hinted about it. I laid out twenty pound upon it. First the avaricious grandchildren split upon him on account of their objections to his living so unreasonably long, and then they split on one another. Lord! There ain’t one of the family that wouldn’t sell the other for a pound or two, except the old lady—and she’s only out of it because she’s too weak in her mind to drive a bargain.’
巴克特先生用余光看了我们一眼，胜利地用食指揉了揉鼻子，然后站了起来，眼睛紧盯着他的密友，伸出手准备接过纸和礼物。交给我的监护人。斯莫尔韦德先生在制作这本书时非常不情愿，并多次声明他是一个勤劳的穷苦人，为了贾迪斯先生的名誉，他不让他因为自己的诚实而受到损失。他慢慢地从胸前的口袋里掏出一张脏兮兮、褪色的纸，纸的外面已经严重烧焦，边缘也有一点烧焦，就好像它很久以前被扔进火里，又被匆忙地扯下来一样。巴克特先生毫不犹豫地以魔术师般的灵巧把这张纸从斯莫尔韦德先生手中转给了贾迪斯先生。当他把它交给我的监护人时，他在手指后面低声说道：“还没有决定如何利用它进行销售。”吵架了还暗示了。我在上面放了二十英镑。首先，贪婪的孙子们因为反对他过长的寿命而对他产生了分裂，然后他们又互相分裂了。主！除了老太太之外，家里没有一个人不会以一两英镑的价格卖掉另一个人——而她之所以出局，只是因为她的头脑太弱了，无法讨价还价。

‘Mr Bucket,’ said my guardian aloud, ‘whatever the worth of this paper may be to any one, my obligations are great to you; and if it be of any worth, I hold myself bound to see Mr. Smallweed remunerated accordingly.’
“巴克特先生，”我的监护人大声说道，“无论这篇论文对任何人来说有什么价值，我对你的义务都是巨大的；如果它有任何价值，我一定会看到斯莫威德先生得到相应的报酬。

‘Not according to your merits, you know,’ said Mr. Bucket in friendly explanation to Mr. Smallweed. ‘Don’t you be afraid of that. According to its value.’
“你知道，这不是根据你的优点，”巴克特先生友好地向斯莫威德先生解释说。 ‘你不用害怕这个。根据其价值。

‘That is what I mean,’ said my guardian. ‘You may observe, Mr. Bucket, that I abstain from examining this paper myself. The plain truth is, I have forsworn and abjured the whole business these many years, and my soul is sick of it. But Miss Summerson and I will immediately place the paper in the hands of my solicitor in the cause, and its existence shall be made known without delay to all other parties interested.’
“这就是我的意思，”我的监护人说。 “你可能会注意到，巴克特先生，我放弃亲自检查这篇论文。显而易见的事实是，多年来我已经发誓并放弃了整个事业，我的灵魂对此感到厌倦。但萨默森小姐和我会立即将这份文件交给我的律师，并且应立即向所有其他感兴趣的各方通报该文件的存在。”

‘Mr. Jarndyce can’t say fairer than that, you understand,’ observed Mr. Bucket to his fellow-visitor. ‘And it being now made clear to you that nobody’s a-going to be wronged—which must be a great relief to YOUR mind—we may proceed with the ceremony of chairing you home again.’
'先生。贾迪斯说得再公平不过了，你明白，”巴克特先生对他的同伴说。 “现在你已经清楚地知道，没有人会受到冤屈——这对你来说一定是一种很大的安慰——我们可以再次开始主持你回家的仪式。”

He unbolted the door, called in the bearers, wished us good morning, and with a look full of meaning and a crook of his finger at parting went his way.
他打开门，叫来了轿夫，向我们道了早安，然后带着充满意味的神情和临别时的手指弯曲走开了。

We went our way too, which was to Lincoln’s Inn, as quickly as possible. Mr. Kenge was disengaged, and we found him at his table in his dusty room with the inexpressive-looking books and the piles of papers. Chairs having been placed for us by Mr. Guppy, Mr. Kenge expressed the surprise and gratification he felt at the unusual sight of Mr. Jarndyce in his office. He turned over his double eye-glass as he spoke and was more Conversation Kenge than ever.
我们也走自己的路，尽快前往林肯旅馆。肯格先生心不在焉，我们发现他坐在布满灰尘的房间里的桌子旁，桌上放着看起来毫无表情的书和成堆的文件。古比先生为我们摆放了椅子，肯格先生对贾迪斯先生出现在他的办公室里表示惊讶和欣慰。他说话时翻转了双眼眼镜，比以往任何时候都更加谈话肯格。

‘I hope,’ said Mr. Kenge, ‘that the genial influence of Miss Summerson,’ he bowed to me, ‘may have induced Mr. Jarndyce,’ he bowed to him, ‘to forego some little of his animosity towards a cause and towards a court which are—shall I say, which take their place in the stately vista of the pillars of our profession?’
“我希望，”肯吉先生说，“萨默森小姐的友善影响，”他向我鞠了一躬，“可能会促使贾迪斯先生，”他向他鞠了一躬，“放弃了他对某项事业的一些敌意。”以及朝廷，我应该说，他们在我们职业支柱的庄严前景中占有一席之地吗？

‘I am inclined to think,’ returned my guardian, ‘that Miss Summerson has seen too much of the effects of the court and the cause to exert any influence in their favour. Nevertheless, they are a part of the occasion of my being here. Mr. Kenge, before I lay this paper on your desk and have done with it, let me tell you how it has come into my hands.’
“我倾向于认为，”我的监护人回答说，“萨默森小姐已经看到了太多法庭的影响和对他们施加任何有利于他们的影响的原因。然而，它们是我来到这里的一部分。肯格先生，在我把这张纸放在您的桌子上并处理完之前，让我告诉您它是如何到达我手中的。

He did so shortly and distinctly.
他的动作很快而且清晰。

‘It could not, sir,’ said Mr. Kenge, ‘have been stated more plainly and to the purpose if it had been a case at law.’
“先生，”肯吉先生说，“如果这是一个法律案件的话，就不能说得更清楚、更符合目的了。”

‘Did you ever know English law, or equity either, plain and to the purpose?’ said my guardian.
我的监护人说：“你是否了解过英国法律或衡平法？”

‘Oh, fie!’ said Mr. Kenge.
“噢，呸！”肯吉先生说道。

At first he had not seemed to attach much importance to the paper, but when he saw it he appeared more interested, and when he had opened and read a little of it through his eye-glass, he became amazed. ‘Mr. Jarndyce,’ he said, looking off it, ‘you have perused this?’
起初他似乎并不太重视这篇论文，但当他看到它时，他显得更感兴趣，当他打开并通过眼镜阅读其中一点时，他感到惊讶。 '先生。贾迪斯，”他说，把目光移开，“你读过这个吗？”

‘Not I!’ returned my guardian.
“不是我！”我的监护人回答道。

‘But, my dear sir,’ said Mr. Kenge, ‘it is a will of later date than any in the suit. It appears to be all in the testator’s handwriting. It is duly executed and attested. And even if intended to be cancelled, as might possibly be supposed to be denoted by these marks of fire, it is NOT cancelled. Here it is, a perfect instrument!’
“但是，亲爱的先生，”肯格先生说，“这份遗嘱的日期比诉讼中的任何遗嘱都要晚。”似乎全部都是遗嘱人的笔迹。它已正式执行并得到证实。即使打算被取消，正如这些火痕可能应该表明的那样，它也没有被取消。这就是，一个完美的乐器！”

‘Well!’ said my guardian. ‘What is that to me?’
“好吧！”我的监护人说。 “那对我来说是什么？”

‘Mr. Guppy!’ cried Mr. Kenge, raising his voice. ‘I beg your pardon, Mr. Jarndyce.’
'先生。 “孔雀鱼！”​​肯吉先生提高了声音喊道。 “贾迪斯先生，请原谅。”

‘Sir.’
'先生。'

‘Mr. Vholes of Symond’s Inn. My compliments. Jarndyce and Jarndyce. Glad to speak with him.’
'先生。西蒙旅馆的山谷。我的赞美。贾迪斯和贾迪斯。很高兴与他交谈。

Mr. Guppy disappeared.
古比先生失踪了。

‘You ask me what is this to you, Mr. Jarndyce. If you had perused this document, you would have seen that it reduces your interest considerably, though still leaving it a very handsome one, still leaving it a very handsome one,’ said Mr. Kenge, waving his hand persuasively and blandly. ‘You would further have seen that the interests of Mr. Richard Carstone and of Miss Ada Clare, now Mrs. Richard Carstone, are very materially advanced by it.’
“你问我这对你来说是什么，贾迪斯先生。如果你仔细阅读了这份文件，你会发现它大大降低了你的兴趣，尽管它仍然是一个非常漂亮的文件，仍然是一个非常漂亮的文件，”肯格先生说道，他有说服力地、温和地挥舞着他的手。 “你还会进一步看到，理查德·卡斯通先生和艾达·克莱尔小姐（现在的理查德·卡斯通夫人）的利益因此得到了极大的物质提升。”

‘Kenge,’ said my guardian, ‘if all the flourishing wealth that the suit brought into this vile court of Chancery could fall to my two young cousins, I should be well contented. But do you ask ME to believe that any good is to come of Jarndyce and Jarndyce?’
“肯哥，”我的监护人说，“如果这起诉讼给这个卑鄙的大法官法庭带来的所有繁荣财富都能落到我的两个年轻表弟身上，我就心满意足了。但是你让我相信贾迪斯和贾迪斯会带来任何好处吗？

‘Oh, really, Mr. Jarndyce! Prejudice, prejudice. My dear sir, this is a very great country, a very great country. Its system of equity is a very great system, a very great system. Really, really!’
“噢，真的，贾迪斯先生！”偏见，偏见。亲爱的先生，这是一个非常伟大的国家，一个非常伟大的国家。它的股权制度是一个非常伟大的制度，一个非常伟大的制度。真的真的！'

My guardian said no more, and Mr. Vholes arrived. He was modestly impressed by Mr. Kenge’s professional eminence.
我的监护人没有再说什么，沃尔斯先生就到了。肯格先生的专业成就给他留下了深刻的印象。

‘How do you do, Mr. Vholes? Willl you be so good as to take a chair here by me and look over this paper?’
“你好吗，沃尔斯先生？”你能在我旁边坐下来看看这张纸吗？

Mr. Vholes did as he was asked and seemed to read it every word. He was not excited by it, but he was not excited by anything. When he had well examined it, he retired with Mr. Kenge into a window, and shading his mouth with his black glove, spoke to him at some length. I was not surprised to observe Mr. Kenge inclined to dispute what he said before he had said much, for I knew that no two people ever did agree about anything in Jarndyce and Jarndyce. But he seemed to get the better of Mr. Kenge too in a conversation that sounded as if it were almost composed of the words ‘ReceiverGeneral,’ ‘Accountant-General,’ ‘report,’ ‘estate,’ and ‘costs.’ When they had finished, they came back to Mr. Kenge’s table and spoke aloud.
沃尔斯先生按照要求做了，而且似乎每一个字都读过。他并不为此兴奋，但他也不为任何事兴奋。当他仔细检查过之后，他和肯吉先生一起退到窗边，用黑色手套遮住嘴，对他说了一些长话。看到肯格先生在他说得太多之前就倾向于对他所说的话提出异议，我并不感到惊讶，因为我知道，没有两个人在《加迪斯》和《加迪斯》中的任何事情上达成过一致。但他似乎也比肯格先生更胜一筹，谈话听起来几乎都是由“总管”、“总会计师”、“报告”、“遗产”和“费用”等词组成。他们吃完后，回到肯格先生的桌子旁，大声说话。

‘Well! But this is a very remarkable document, Mr. Vholes,’ said Mr. Kenge.
'出色地！但这是一份非常了不起的文件，Vholes 先生，”Kenge 先生说。

Mr. Vholes said, ‘Very much so.’
沃尔斯先生说：“非常如此。”

‘And a very important document, Mr. Vholes,’ said Mr. Kenge.
“这是一份非常重要的文件，沃尔斯先生，”肯格先生说。

Again Mr. Vholes said, ‘Very much so.’
沃尔斯先生再次说道：“非常如此。”

‘And as you say, Mr. Vholes, when the cause is in the paper next term, this document will be an unexpected and interesting feature in it,’ said Mr. Kenge, looking loftily at my guardian.
“正如您所说，沃尔斯先生，当下学期的报纸上刊登这一事业时，这份文件将成为其中一个意想不到的、有趣的特色，”肯格先生说道，他傲慢地看着我的监护人。

Mr. Vholes was gratified, as a smaller practitioner striving to keep respectable, to be confirmed in any opinion of his own by such an authority.
作为一个努力保持受人尊敬的小从业者，沃尔斯先生很高兴自己的任何观点得到这样一位权威的证实。

‘And when,’ asked my guardian, rising after a pause, during which Mr. Kenge had rattled his money and Mr. Vholes had picked his pimples, ‘when is next term?’
“那么，”我的监护人停顿了一下，站起身问道，“下学期是什么时候？”肯格先生在不停地摆弄着钱，沃尔斯先生则在抠痘痘。

‘Next term, Mr. Jarndyce, will be next month,’ said Mr. Kenge. ‘Of course we shall at once proceed to do what is necessary with this document and to collect the necessary evidence concerning it; and of course you will receive our usual notification of the cause being in the paper.’
“贾迪斯先生，下学期将是下个月，”肯吉先生说。 “当然，我们将立即着手处理这份文件，并收集相关的必要证据；当然，您会收到我们通常在报纸上公布的原因通知。

‘To which I shall pay, of course, my usual attention.’
“当然，我会一如既往地关注这一点。”

‘Still bent, my dear sir,’ said Mr. Kenge, showing us through the outer office to the door, ‘still bent, even with your enlarged mind, on echoing a popular prejudice? We are a prosperous community, Mr. Jarndyce, a very prosperous community. We are a great country, Mr. Jarndyce, we are a very great country. This is a great system, Mr. Jarndyce, and would you wish a great country to have a little system? Now, really, really!’
“亲爱的先生，”肯吉先生一边说，一边带我们穿过外面的办公室走到门口，“即使你的心胸宽广，仍然一意孤行，去附和普遍的偏见吗？”我们是一个繁荣的社区，贾迪斯先生，一个非常繁荣的社区。我们是一个伟大的国家，贾迪斯先生，我们是一个非常伟大的国家。这是一个伟大的制度，贾迪斯先生，你希望一个伟大的国家也有一个小制度吗？现在，真的，真的！”

He said this at the stair-head, gently moving his right hand as if it were a silver trowel with which to spread the cement of his words on the structure of the system and consolidate it for a thousand ages.
他在楼梯口说道，右手轻轻地移动，仿佛那是一把银抹子，将他的话的水泥铺在系统的结构上，并将其巩固一千个世纪。

CHAPTER LXIII
第六十章


Steel and Iron
钢铁

George’s Shooting Gallery is to let, and the stock is sold off, and George himself is at Chesney Wold attending on Sir Leicester in his rides and riding very near his bridle-rein because of the uncertain hand with which he guides his horse. But not to-day is George so occupied. He is journeying to-day into the iron country farther north to look about him.
乔治的射击场即将出租，股票已被卖掉，乔治本人正在切斯尼沃尔德观看莱斯特爵士的骑马活动，而且由于他控制马的手不确定，他骑得非常靠近他的缰绳。但乔治今天可没这么忙。今天他正前往更北的铁国去看看他的周围。

As he comes into the iron country farther north, such fresh green woods as those of Chesney Wold are left behind; and coal pits and ashes, high chimneys and red bricks, blighted verdure, scorching fires, and a heavy never-lightening cloud of smoke become the features of the scenery. Among such objects rides the trooper, looking about him and always looking for something he has come to find.
当他进入更北边的铁国时，像切斯尼森林那样新鲜的绿色树林就被抛在了后面。煤坑和灰烬、高高的烟囱和红砖、枯萎的青翠、灼热的火焰和永不消散的浓烟成为风景的特征。士兵骑在这些物体中，环顾四周，总是寻找他要寻找的东西。

At last, on the black canal bridge of a busy town, with a clang of iron in it, and more fires and more smoke than he has seen yet, the trooper, swart with the dust of the coal roads, checks his horse and asks a workman does he know the name of Rouncewell thereabouts.
最后，在一座繁忙城镇的黑色运河桥上，铁块叮当作响，火光和烟雾比他见过的还要多，被煤炭道路的灰尘弄得黝黑的士兵检查了他的马并问道一个工人知道附近的朗斯韦尔的名字吗？

‘Why, master,’ quoth the workman, ‘do I know my own name?’
“为什么，主人，”工人问道，“我知道自己的名字吗？”

‘‘Tis so well known here, is it, comrade?’ asks the trooper.
“这在这里很出名，是吗，同志？”士兵问道。

‘Rouncewell’s? Ah! You’re right.’
“朗斯韦尔的？啊!你说得对。'

‘And where might it be now?’ asks the trooper with a glance before him.
“那现在可能在哪儿呢？”士兵看了一眼前方问道。

‘The bank, the factory, or the house?’ the workman wants to know.
“银行、工厂还是房子？”工人想知道。

‘Hum! Rouncewell’s is so great apparently,’ mutters the trooper, stroking his chin, ‘that I have as good as half a mind to go back again. Why, I don’t know which I want. Should I find Mr. Rouncewell at the factory, do you think?’
'哼！朗斯韦尔的显然太棒了，”士兵摸着下巴嘀咕道，“我几乎想再回去一次了。为什么，我不知道我想要哪个。你觉得我应该去工厂找朗斯韦尔先生吗？

‘Tain’t easy to say where you’d find him—at this time of the day you might find either him or his son there, if he’s in town; but his contracts take him away.’
“很难说你会在哪里找到他——一天中的这个时候，你可能会在那里找到他或他的儿子，如果他在城里；但他的合同把他带走了。”

And which is the factory? Why, he sees those chimneys—the tallest ones! Yes, he sees THEM. Well! Let him keep his eye on those chimneys, going on as straight as ever he can, and presently he’ll see ‘em down a turning on the left, shut in by a great brick wall which forms one side of the street. That’s Rouncewell’s.
工厂是哪个？哎呀，他看到了那些烟囱——最高的！是的，他看到了他们。出色地！让他盯着那些烟囱，尽可能笔直地走，很快他就会在左边的一个转弯处看到它们，被街道一侧的一堵巨大的砖墙封闭起来。那是朗斯韦尔的。

The trooper thanks his informant and rides slowly on, looking about him. He does not turn back, but puts up his horse (and is much disposed to groom him too) at a public-house where some of Rouncewell’s hands are dining, as the ostler tells him. Some of Rouncewell’s hands have just knocked off for dinner-time and seem to be invading the whole town. They are very sinewy and strong, are Rouncewell’s hands—a little sooty too.
士兵感谢了他的线人，然后慢慢地骑着马，环顾四周。他没有回头，而是把他的马停在一家酒馆里（而且也很愿意给它梳理毛发），正如马夫告诉他的那样，朗斯韦尔的一些手正在那里用餐。朗斯韦尔的一些手刚刚在晚餐时间被砍掉，似乎正在入侵整个城镇。朗斯韦尔的双手非常强壮有力——也有点黑黑的。

He comes to a gateway in the brick wall, looks in, and sees a great perplexity of iron lying about in every stage and in a vast variety of shapes—in bars, in wedges, in sheets; in tanks, in boilers, in axles, in wheels, in cogs, in cranks, in rails; twisted and wrenched into eccentric and perverse forms as separate parts of machinery; mountains of it broken up, and rusty in its age; distant furnaces of it glowing and bubbling in its youth; bright fireworks of it showering about under the blows of the steam-hammer; red-hot iron, white-hot iron, cold-black iron; an iron taste, an iron smell, and a Babel of iron sounds.
他来到砖墙上的一个入口处，往里看，发现每一层都有一大堆复杂的铁，形状各异——条形、楔形、片状；在储罐中、在锅炉中、在车轴中、在车轮中、在齿轮中、在曲柄中、在轨道中；作为机械的独立部件，扭曲并扭曲成偏心和反常的形式；山峦破碎，因岁月而生锈；远处的熔炉在年轻时闪闪发光、冒着气泡；明亮的烟花在蒸汽锤的打击下洒落；红热铁、白热铁、冷黑铁；铁的味道，铁的气味，还有铁的声音。

‘This is a place to make a man’s head ache too!’ says the trooper, looking about him for a counting-house. ‘Who comes here? This is very like me before I was set up. This ought to be my nephew, if likenesses run in families. Your servant, sir.’
“这也是一个让人头疼的地方！”士兵一边说，一边环顾四周，寻找账房。 ‘谁来了？这很像我被设置之前的我。如果家族里有相似之处的话，这应该是我的侄子。您的仆人，先生。

‘Yours, sir. Are you looking for any one?’
‘你的，先生。你在找人吗？

‘Excuse me. Young Mr. Rouncewell, I believe?’
'打扰一下。我相信是年轻的朗斯韦尔先生吧？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘I was looking for your father, sir. I wish to have a word with him.’
“我正在寻找你的父亲，先生。我想和他谈谈。

The young man, telling him he is fortunate in his choice of a time, for his father is there, leads the way to the office where he is to be found. ‘Very like me before I was set up—devilish like me!’ thinks the trooper as he follows. They come to a building in the yard with an office on an upper floor. At sight of the gentleman in the office, Mr. George turns very red.
年轻人告诉他，他选择的时间很幸运，因为他的父亲就在那里，并带路前往他所在的办公室。 “很像我被陷害之前的样子——像我一样邪恶！”士兵边走边想。他们来到院子里的一栋大楼，楼上有一间办公室。乔治先生一看到办公室里的那位先生，脸就红了。

‘What name shall I say to my father?’ asks the young man.
“我该给我父亲起什么名字呢？”年轻人问道。

George, full of the idea of iron, in desperation answers ‘Steel,’ and is so presented. He is left alone with the gentleman in the office, who sits at a table with account-books before him and some sheets of paper blotted with hosts of figures and drawings of cunning shapes. It is a bare office, with bare windows, looking on the iron view below. Tumbled together on the table are some pieces of iron, purposely broken to be tested at various periods of their service, in various capacities. There is iron-dust on everything; and the smoke is seen through the windows rolling heavily out of the tall chimneys to mingle with the smoke from a vaporous Babylon of other chimneys.
充满了铁的想法的乔治，绝望地回答“钢”，并被呈现出来。办公室里只剩下他和那位先生，后者坐在一张桌子旁，面前放着账簿和几张纸，上面沾满了大量的数字和形状各异的图画。这是一间光秃秃的办公室，光秃秃的窗户，看着下面的铁窗景色。桌子上堆放着一些铁片，这些铁片被故意打碎，以便在不同的使用时期和不同的性能下进行测试。万物皆有铁尘；透过窗户可以看到浓烟从高大的烟囱里滚滚而出，与其他烟囱冒出的烟雾混合在一起。

‘I am at your service, Mr. Steel,’ says the gentleman when his visitor has taken a rusty chair.
“我随时为您服务，斯蒂尔先生。”当客人坐上一张生锈的椅子时，这位绅士说道。

‘Well, Mr. Rouncewell,’ George replies, leaning forward with his left arm on his knee and his hat in his hand, and very chary of meeting his brother’s eye, ‘I am not without my expectations that in the present visit I may prove to be more free than welcome. I have served as a dragoon in my day, and a comrade of mine that I was once rather partial to was, if I don’t deceive myself, a brother of yours. I believe you had a brother who gave his family some trouble, and ran away, and never did any good but in keeping away?’
“好吧，朗斯韦尔先生，”乔治回答道，身体前倾，左臂放在膝盖上，手里拿着帽子，非常小心地避免与他哥哥的目光对视，“我并非没有期望，在这次访问中，我可能会事实证明，自由比受欢迎更重要。我当年当过龙骑兵，我曾经颇为偏爱的一个战友，如果我不自欺欺人的话，其实是你的兄弟。我相信你有一个兄弟，给他的家人带来了一些麻烦，然后就逃跑了，除了躲避之外，从来没有做过任何好事？

‘Are you quite sure,’ returns the ironmaster in an altered voice, ‘that your name is Steel?’
“你确定你的名字叫钢铁吗？”钢铁大师换了一种声音问道。

The trooper falters and looks at him. His brother starts up, calls him by his name, and grasps him by both hands.
士兵犹豫了一下，看着他。他的兄弟站了起来，叫着他的名字，并用双手抓住了他。

‘You are too quick for me!’ cries the trooper with the tears springing out of his eyes. ‘How do you do, my dear old fellow? I never could have thought you would have been half so glad to see me as all this. How do you do, my dear old fellow, how do you do!’
“你对我来说太快了！”士兵喊道，泪水夺眶而出。 ‘你好吗，我亲爱的老伙计？我从来没想到你见到我会这么高兴。你好吗，我亲爱的老伙计，你好吗！

They shake hands and embrace each other over and over again, the trooper still coupling his ‘How do you do, my dear old fellow!’ with his protestation that he never thought his brother would have been half so glad to see him as all this!
他们一遍又一遍地握手、拥抱，士兵仍然一边说着“你好，我亲爱的老伙计！”一边断言，他从来没有想过他的兄弟见到他会这么高兴。 ！

‘So far from it,’ he declares at the end of a full account of what has preceded his arrival there, ‘I had very little idea of making myself known. I thought if you took by any means forgivingly to my name I might gradually get myself up to the point of writing a letter. But I should not have been surprised, brother, if you had considered it anything but welcome news to hear of me.’
“远非如此，”他在详细叙述了自己到达那里之前的经历后宣称，“我几乎没有想过要让自己出名。”我想，如果你无论如何都能原谅我的名字，我可能会逐渐达到写信的程度。但兄弟，如果你认为听到我的消息只是受欢迎的消息，我不会感到惊讶。

‘We will show you at home what kind of news we think it, George,’ returns his brother. ‘This is a great day at home, and you could not have arrived, you bronzed old soldier, on a better. I make an agreement with my son Watt to-day that on this day twelvemonth he shall marry as pretty and as good a girl as you have seen in all your travels. She goes to Germany to-morrow with one of your nieces for a little polishing up in her education. We make a feast of the event, and you will be made the hero of it.’
“我们会在家里告诉你我们认为这是什么样的新闻，乔治，”他的兄弟回答道。 “这是家里美好的一天，你这个古铜色的老战士，不可能以更好的心情来的。”我今天和我的儿子瓦特达成协议，在十二月的这一天，他将娶一个你在所有旅行中见过的漂亮、善良的女孩。她明天将和你的一个侄女一起去德国，以提高她的教育水平。我们为这次活动举办了一场盛宴，而您将成为其中的英雄。

Mr. George is so entirely overcome at first by this prospect that he resists the proposed honour with great earnestness. Being overborne, however, by his brother and his nephew—concerning whom he renews his protestations that he never could have thought they would have been half so glad to see him—he is taken home to an elegant house in all the arrangements of which there is to be observed a pleasant mixture of the originally simple habits of the father and mother with such as are suited to their altered station and the higher fortunes of their children. Here Mr. George is much dismayed by the graces and accomplishments of his nieces that are and by the beauty of Rosa, his niece that is to be, and by the affectionate salutations of these young ladies, which he receives in a sort of dream. He is sorely taken aback, too, by the dutiful behaviour of his nephew and has a woeful consciousness upon him of being a scapegrace. However, there is great rejoicing and a very hearty company and infinite enjoyment, and Mr. George comes bluff and martial through it all, and his pledge to be present at the marriage and give away the bride is received with universal favour. A whirling head has Mr. George that night when he lies down in the state-bed of his brother’s house to think of all these things and to see the images of his nieces (awful all the evening in their floating muslins) waltzing, after the German manner, over his counterpane.
乔治先生一开始就完全被这个前景所征服，以至于他非常认真地拒绝了这项提议的荣誉。然而，他被他的兄弟和侄子压垮了——关于他们，他重申了他的声明，他从来没有想过他们会这么高兴见到他——他被带回家到一栋优雅的房子，里面的所有安排都在里面。可以看到，父母原本简单的习惯与适合他们改变的地位和孩子更高的命运的习惯令人愉快地混合在一起。在这里，乔治先生对他的侄女们的优雅和成就以及他未来的侄女罗莎的美丽以及这些年轻女士们深情的问候感到非常沮丧，这些年轻女士们在一场梦中受到了欢迎。他也被他侄子的尽职行为吓了一跳，并悲惨地意识到自己是一个可怜人。然而，这里充满了巨大的欢乐、衷心的陪伴和无限的享受，乔治先生在这一切中表现得虚张声势和好战，他承诺出席婚礼并赠送新娘的承诺受到了普遍的欢迎。那天晚上，乔治先生躺在他哥哥家的豪华床上，想着所有这些事情，并看到他的侄女们（整个晚上都穿着漂浮的平纹细布）跳华尔兹的画面，这让乔治先生感到头晕目眩。德国风格，在他的床单上。

The brothers are closeted next morning in the ironmaster’s room, where the elder is proceeding, in his clear sensible way, to show how he thinks he may best dispose of George in his business, when George squeezes his hand and stops him.
第二天早上，兄弟俩被关在铁匠的房间里，长老正以他清晰明智的方式继续进行，以表明他认为如何最好地处理乔治的生意，这时乔治捏住了他的手并阻止了他。

‘Brother, I thank you a million times for your more than brotherly welcome, and a million times more to that for your more than brotherly intentions. But my plans are made. Before I say a word as to them, I wish to consult you upon one family point. How,’ says the trooper, folding his arms and looking with indomitable firmness at his brother, ‘how is my mother to be got to scratch me?’
“兄弟，我感谢你一百万次，感谢你超越兄弟般的欢迎，更感谢你一百万次，感谢你超越兄弟般的意图。但我的计划已经制定了。在我对他们说一句话之前，我想就一个家庭问题向你们咨询一下。 “怎么，”士兵抱起双臂，用不屈不挠的坚定眼神看着他的兄弟，“我妈妈怎么会抓我呢？”

‘I am not sure that I understand you, George,’ replies the ironmaster.
“我不确定我是否理解你，乔治，”钢铁大师回答道。

‘I say, brother, how is my mother to be got to scratch me? She must be got to do it somehow.’
‘我说，兄弟，我妈妈怎么会抓我呢？她必须以某种方式去做。

‘Scratch you out of her will, I think you mean?’
“我想你的意思是把你从她的遗嘱中剔除掉？”

‘Of course I do. In short,’ says the trooper, folding his arms more resolutely yet, ‘I mean—TO—scratch me!’
'我当然是了。简而言之，”士兵更加坚定地抱起双臂说道，“我的意思是——抓——抓我！”

‘My dear George,’ returns his brother, ‘is it so indispensable that you should undergo that process?’
“我亲爱的乔治，”他的兄弟回答道，“这是必不可少的，以至于你应该经历这个过程吗？”

‘Quite! Absolutely! I couldn’t be guilty of the meanness of coming back without it. I should never be safe not to be off again. I have not sneaked home to rob your children, if not yourself, brother, of your rights. I, who forfeited mine long ago! If I am to remain and hold up my head, I must be scratched. Come. You are a man of celebrated penetration and intelligence, and you can tell me how it’s to be brought about.’
'相当！绝对地！我不能因为没有它而回来的卑鄙行为而感到内疚。如果我不再离开，我就永远不会安全。我偷偷溜回家并不是为了剥夺你的孩子们的权利，如果不是你自己的话，兄弟。我，早就失去了我的！如果我要留下来并抬起头，我就必须被抓伤。来。你是一个以洞察力和智慧着称的人，你可以告诉我如何实现这一目标。”

‘I can tell you, George,’ replies the ironmaster deliberately, ‘how it is not to be brought about, which I hope may answer the purpose as well. Look at our mother, think of her, recall her emotion when she recovered you. Do you believe there is a consideration in the world that would induce her to take such a step against her favourite son? Do you believe there is any chance of her consent, to balance against the outrage it would be to her (loving dear old lady!) to propose it? If you do, you are wrong. No, George! You must make up your mind to remain UNscratched, I think.’ There is an amused smile on the ironmaster’s face as he watches his brother, who is pondering, deeply disappointed. ‘I think you may manage almost as well as if the thing were done, though.’
“我可以告诉你，乔治，”钢铁大师故意回答道，“如何才能不发生这种情况，我希望这也能达到目的。”看看我们的母亲，想想她，回想一下她找回你时的心情。你相信世界上有什么考虑会让她对她最爱的儿子采取这样的举动吗？你相信她有可能同意，以平衡她（亲爱的亲爱的老太太！） 提出这个建议所带来的愤怒吗？如果你这样做了，那你就错了。不，乔治！我想，你必须下定决心，不被划伤。”当铁匠看着他的兄弟时，他的脸上露出了一丝有趣的微笑，而他的兄弟正在沉思，深感失望。 “不过，我认为如果这件事完成了，你可能会做得很好。”

‘How, brother?’
“怎么样，兄弟？”

‘Being bent upon it, you can dispose by will of anything you have the misfortune to inherit in any way you like, you know.’
“你知道，只要你一心一意，你就可以按照自己的意愿，以任何你喜欢的方式处置你不幸继承的任何东西。”

‘That’s true!’ says the trooper, pondering again. Then he wistfully asks, with his hand on his brother’s, ‘Would you mind mentioning that, brother, to your wife and family?’
“确实如此！”士兵沉思着说道。然后，他把手放在弟弟的手上，若有所思地问道：“兄弟，你介意向你的妻子和家人提及这一点吗？”

‘Not at all.’
'一点也不。'

‘Thank you. You wouldn’t object to say, perhaps, that although an undoubted vagabond, I am a vagabond of the harum-scarum order, and not of the mean sort?’
'谢谢。也许你不会反对说，虽然我是一个毫无疑问的流浪汉，但我是一个鲁莽的流浪汉，而不是卑鄙的流浪汉？

The ironmaster, repressing his amused smile, assents.
铁匠强忍着他的好笑，同意了。

‘Thank you. Thank you. It’s a weight off my mind,’ says the trooper with a heave of his chest as he unfolds his arms and puts a hand on each leg, ‘though I had set my heart on being scratched, too!’
'谢谢。谢谢。这让我的心如释重负，”士兵一边说着，一边展开双臂，将一只手放在每条腿上，“尽管我也很想被抓伤！”

The brothers are very like each other, sitting face to face; but a certain massive simplicity and absence of usage in the ways of the world is all on the trooper’s side.
兄弟俩很像，面对面坐着；但世界上的某种巨大的简单性和缺乏使用性都站在士兵一边。

‘Well,’ he proceeds, throwing off his disappointment, ‘next and last, those plans of mine. You have been so brotherly as to propose to me to fall in here and take my place among the products of your perseverance and sense. I thank you heartily. It’s more than brotherly, as I said before, and I thank you heartily for it,’ shaking him a long time by the hand. ‘But the truth is, brother, I am a—I am a kind of a weed, and it’s too late to plant me in a regular garden.’
“好吧，”他抛开失望继续说道，“接下来也是最后一个，就是我的那些计划。”你们是如此兄弟般地向我提议落入这里，并在你们的毅力和理智的产物中取代我的位置。我衷心感谢你。正如我之前所说，这不仅仅是兄弟情谊，我衷心感谢你，”握着他的手良久。 “但事实是，兄弟，我是——我是一种杂草，现在把我种在普通的花园里已经太晚了。”

‘My dear George,’ returns the elder, concentrating his strong steady brow upon him and smiling confidently, ‘leave that to me, and let me try.’
“我亲爱的乔治，”长老回答道，他的眉毛集中在他身上，自信地微笑着，“把这件事交给我吧，让我试试。”

George shakes his head. ‘You could do it, I have not a doubt, if anybody could; but it’s not to be done. Not to be done, sir! Whereas it so falls out, on the other hand, that I am able to be of some trifle of use to Sir Leicester Dedlock since his illness— brought on by family sorrows—and that he would rather have that help from our mother’s son than from anybody else.’
乔治摇摇头。 “你能做到，我毫不怀疑，如果有人能做到的话；但这不是必须要做的。不可以，先生！另一方面，事实证明，自从莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士因家庭悲伤而生病以来，我能够为他提供一些小帮助，而且他宁愿从我们母亲的儿子那里得到帮助，也不愿从我们母亲的儿子那里得到帮助。其他人。'

‘Well, my dear George,’ returns the other with a very slight shade upon his open face, ‘if you prefer to serve in Sir Leicester Dedlock’s household brigade—‘
“好吧，我亲爱的乔治，”另一个人回答道，他那张开放的脸上带着一丝淡淡的阴影，“如果你愿意在莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士的家庭旅中服役——”

‘There it is, brother,’ cries the trooper, checking him, with his hand upon his knee again; ‘there it is! You don’t take kindly to that idea; I don’t mind it. You are not used to being officered; I am. Everything about you is in perfect order and discipline; everything about me requires to be kept so. We are not accustomed to carry things with the same hand or to look at ‘em from the same point. I don’t say much about my garrison manners because I found myself pretty well at my ease last night, and they wouldn’t be noticed here, I dare say, once and away. But I shall get on best at Chesney Wold, where there’s more room for a weed than there is here; and the dear old lady will be made happy besides. Therefore I accept of Sir Leicester Dedlock’s proposals. When I come over next year to give away the bride, or whenever I come, I shall have the sense to keep the household brigade in ambuscade and not to manoeuvre it on your ground. I thank you heartily again and am proud to think of the Rouncewells as they’ll be founded by you.’
“就是这里，兄弟。”士兵喊道，一边检查他，一边再次把手放在膝盖上。 ‘就是这样！你不喜欢这个想法；我不介意。你不习惯担任军官；我是。你的一切都井然有序、井井有条；关于我的一切都需要保持这样。我们不习惯用同一只手拿东西，也不习惯从同一个角度看东西。我没有过多谈论我的驻军礼仪，因为昨晚我发现自己非常放松，我敢说，他们在这里不会被注意到，一次又一次。但我在切斯尼沃尔德会过得最好，那里比这里更适合杂草生长。而且亲爱的老太太也会很高兴的。因此我接受莱斯特·戴德洛克爵士的建议。当我明年来送新娘的时候，或者无论什么时候我来的时候，我都会明智地让家庭大队埋伏起来，而不是在你的阵地上操纵它。我再次衷心感谢你们，并为朗斯韦尔家族感到自豪，因为他们将由你们创立。

‘You know yourself, George,’ says the elder brother, returning the grip of his hand, ‘and perhaps you know me better than I know myself. Take your way. So that we don’t quite lose one another again, take your way.’
“你了解你自己，乔治，”哥哥说，收回了他的手，“也许你比我更了解我自己。”走你的路吧。这样我们就不会再次失去彼此，走你的路吧。

‘No fear of that!’ returns the trooper. ‘Now, before I turn my horse’s head homewards, brother, I will ask you—if you’ll be so good—to look over a letter for me. I brought it with me to send from these parts, as Chesney Wold might be a painful name just now to the person it’s written to. I am not much accustomed to correspondence myself, and I am particular respecting this present letter because I want it to be both straightforward and delicate.’
“不用担心！”士兵回答道。 “现在，在我调转马头回家之前，兄弟，我想请你——如果你愿意的话——帮我看一封信。我带着它从这些地方寄出，因为切斯尼沃尔德对于收信人来说可能是一个痛苦的名字。我自己不太习惯通信，我特别尊重现在的这封信，因为我希望它既直截了当又精致。

Herewith he hands a letter, closely written in somewhat pale ink but in a neat round hand, to the ironmaster, who reads as follows:
在此，他将一封信交给铁匠，这封信是用淡墨写成的，但字体工整，圆润，铁匠的内容如下：

Miss Esther Summerson,
埃丝特·萨默森女士，

A communication having been made to me by Inspector Bucket of a letter to myself being found among the papers of a certain person, I take the liberty to make known to you that it was but a few lines of instruction from abroad, when, where, and how to deliver an enclosed letter to a young and beautiful lady, then unmarried, in England. I duly observed the same.
巴克特督察向我传达了一封信，说在某个人的文件中发现了一封写给我自己的信，我冒昧地告诉你，这只是来自国外的几行指示，何时何地，以及如何将附上的信寄给英国一位年轻漂亮、尚未结婚的女士。我也确实观察到了同样的情况。

I further take the liberty to make known to you that it was got from me as a proof of handwriting only and that otherwise I would not have given it up, as appearing to be the most harmless in my possession, without being previously shot through the heart.
我进一步冒昧地向您表明，它是我从我这里得到的，仅作为笔迹证明，否则我不会放弃它，因为它似乎是我拥有的最无害的东西，而且之前没有被射穿。心。

I further take the liberty to mention that if I could have supposed a certain unfortunate gentleman to have been in existence, I never could and never would have rested until I had discovered his retreat and shared my last farthing with him, as my duty and my inclination would have equally been. But he was (officially) reported drowned, and assuredly went over the side of a transportship at night in an Irish harbour within a few hours of her arrival from the West Indies, as I have myself heard both from officers and men on board, and know to have been (officially) confirmed.
我进一步冒昧地指出，如果我能假设存在某个不幸的绅士，我永远不会也永远不会休息，直到我发现他的隐居处并与他分享我最后的一分钱，作为我的责任和我的责任。倾向也会同样如此。但据（官方）报道，他溺水身亡，而且确实是在一艘运输船从西印度群岛抵达后的几个小时内，在夜间从爱尔兰港口的一艘运输船的舷侧翻过去的，正如我自己从船上的军官和士兵那里听到的那样，知道已被（正式）确认。

I further take the liberty to state that in my humble quality as one of the rank and file, I am, and shall ever continue to be, your thoroughly devoted and admiring servant and that I esteem the qualities you possess above all others far beyond the limits of the present dispatch.
我还冒昧地声明，作为一名普通士兵，我是并且将永远是您的忠实和钦佩的仆人，并且我尊重您所拥有的品质，远远超出了其他人的品质。当前调度的限制。

I have the honour to be,
我有幸成为，

GEORGE
乔治

‘A little formal,’ observes the elder brother, refolding it with a puzzled face.
“有点正式，”哥哥说，一脸困惑地重新折叠它。

‘But nothing that might not be sent to a pattern young lady?’ asks the younger.
“但是没有什么东西不能送给一位典型的年轻女士吗？”年轻的问道。

‘Nothing at all.’
“什么也没有。”

Therefore it is sealed and deposited for posting among the iron correspondence of the day. This done, Mr. George takes a hearty farewell of the family party and prepares to saddle and mount. His brother, however, unwilling to part with him so soon, proposes to ride with him in a light open carriage to the place where he will bait for the night, and there remain with him until morning, a servant riding for so much of the journey on the thoroughbred old grey from Chesney Wold. The offer, being gladly accepted, is followed by a pleasant ride, a pleasant dinner, and a pleasant breakfast, all in brotherly communion. Then they once more shake hands long and heartily and part, the ironmaster turning his face to the smoke and fires, and the trooper to the green country. Early in the afternoon the subdued sound of his heavy military trot is heard on the turf in the avenue as he rides on with imaginary clank and jingle of accoutrements under the old elm-trees.
因此，它被密封并存放在当时的铁信中邮寄。完成后，乔治先生与家庭聚会热情告别，准备上马。然而，他的兄弟不愿意这么快与他分开，提议与他一起乘坐一辆轻便的敞篷马车前往他将要过夜的地方，并在那里一直陪着他直到早上，一个仆人骑着马车走了这么多的路。骑着来自切斯尼沃尔德的纯种老灰马的旅程。我们很高兴地接受了这个提议，接下来就是愉快的旅程、愉快的晚餐和愉快的早餐，所有这一切都在兄弟般的交流中进行。然后他们再次热烈地握手，然后分开，铁匠将脸转向烟雾和火焰，而士兵则转向绿色的乡村。下午早些时候，他在老榆树下骑着马，带着想象中的叮当声和叮当声，在大道的草坪上听到了他沉重的军事小跑的柔和声音。

CHAPTER LXIV
第十四章


Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖的叙述

Soon after I had that convertion with my guardian, he put a sealed paper in my hand one morning and said, ‘This is for next month, my dear.’ I found in it two hundred pounds.
在我和我的监护人皈依后不久，一天早上，他把一张密封的纸放在我手里，说：“这是下个月的，亲爱的。”我在里面发现了两百英镑。

I now began very quietly to make such preparations as I thought were necessary. Regulating my purchases by my guardian’s taste, which I knew very well of course, I arranged my wardrobe to please him and hoped I should be highly successful. I did it all so quietly because I was not quite free from my old apprehension that Ada would be rather sorry and because my guardian was so quiet himself. I had no doubt that under all the circumstances we should be married in the most private and simple manner. Perhaps I should only have to say to Ada, ‘Would you like to come and see me married to-morrow, my pet?’ Perhaps our wedding might even be as unpretending as her own, and I might not find it necessary to say anything about it until it was over. I thought that if I were to choose, I would like this best.
我现在开始悄悄地做我认为必要的准备工作。我根据监护人的品味来控制我的购买，我当然非常了解这一点，我安排了我的衣柜来取悦他，并希望我能取得巨大的成功。我做这一切的时候都很安静，因为我还没有完全摆脱过去的忧虑，担心艾达会感到抱歉，而且因为我的监护人自己也很安静。我毫不怀疑，在任何情况下，我们都应该以最私密、最简单的方式结婚。也许我只需要对艾达说：“我的宠物，你明天愿意来看我结婚吗？”也许我们的婚礼甚至可以像她自己的婚礼一样朴实无华，我可能觉得没有必要说什么直到结束为止。我想，如果让我选择的话，我最喜欢这个。

The only exception I made was Mrs. Woodcourt. I told her that I was going to be married to my guardian and that we had been engaged some time. She highly approved. She could never do enough for me and was remarkably softened now in comparison with what she had been when we first knew her. There was no trouble she would not have taken to have been of use to me, but I need hardly say that I only allowed her to take as little as gratified her kindness without tasking it.
我唯一的例外是伍德考特夫人。我告诉她我即将与我的监护人结婚，并且我们已经订婚一段时间了。她高度认可。她为我做的永远都不够，与我们第一次认识她时相比，她现在明显软化了。没有什么麻烦她不会认为对我有用，但我几乎不用说，我只允许她接受尽可能少的满足她的善意而不承担任务。

Of course this was not a time to neglect my guardian, and of course it was not a time for neglecting my darling. So I had plenty of occupation, which I was glad of; and as to Charley, she was absolutely not to be seen for needlework. To surround herself with great heaps of it—baskets full and tables full—and do a little, and spend a great deal of time in staring with her round eyes at what there was to do, and persuade herself that she was going to do it, were Charley’s great dignities and delights.
当然，现在不是忽视我的监护人的时候，当然也不是忽视我的宝贝的时候。这样我就有了很多工作，对此我感到很高兴。至于查理，绝对不能让人看到她做针线活。用一大堆东西包围自己——篮子满了，桌子满了——做一点，花大量的时间用她的圆眼睛盯着要做的事情，并说服自己她要做这件事，是查理的伟大尊严和快乐。

Meanwhile, I must say, I could not agree with my guardian on the subject of the will, and I had some sanguine hopes of Jarndyce and Jarndyce. Which of us was right will soon appear, but I certainly did encourage expectations. In Richard, the discovery gave occasion for a burst of business and agitation that buoyed him up for a little time, but he had lost the elasticity even of hope now and seemed to me to retain only its feverish anxieties. From something my guardian said one day when we were talking about this, I understood that my marriage would not take place until after the term-time we had been told to look forward to; and I thought the more, for that, how rejoiced I should be if I could be married when Richard and Ada were a little more prosperous.
与此同时，我必须说，在遗嘱的问题上，我无法同意我的监护人的意见，我对贾迪斯和贾迪斯抱有一些乐观的希望。我们中谁是对的很快就会出现，但我确实鼓励了人们的期望。在理查德身上，这一发现给他带来了一阵生意和激动的机会，让他暂时振奋起来，但现在他甚至失去了希望的弹性，在我看来，只保留了狂热的焦虑。有一天，当我们谈论这件事时，我的监护人说的话让我明白，我的婚姻要等到我们被告知要期待的学期结束后才会举行。我越想越是这样，如果我能在理查德和艾达稍微富裕一点的时候结婚，我该多么高兴啊。

The term was very near indeed when my guardian was called out of town and went down into Yorkshire on Mr. Woodcourt’s business. He had told me beforehand that his presence there would be necessary. I had just come in one night from my dear girl’s and was sitting in the midst of all my new clothes, looking at them all around me and thinking, when a letter from my guardian was brought to me. It asked me to join him in the country and mentioned by what stagecoach my place was taken and at what time in the morning I should have to leave town. It added in a postscript that I would not be many hours from Ada.
当我的监护人被叫出城去约克郡处理伍德考特先生的事务时，这个期限确实已经临近了。他事先告诉我，他的存在是必要的。一天晚上，我刚从我亲爱的女儿那里回来，坐在我所有的新衣服中间，看着我周围的它们，想着，这时我的监护人给我带来了一封信。它要求我去乡下和他会合，并提到我乘坐哪辆驿站马车，以及早上什么时间我必须离开城镇。它在附言中补充说，我离开艾达的时间不会太长。

I expected few things less than a journey at that tinae, but I was ready for it in half an hour and set off as appointed early next morning. I travelled all day, wondering all day what I could be wanted for at such a distance; now I thought it might be for this purpose, and now I thought it might be for that purpose, but I was never, never, never near the truth.
我原本以为在那个蒂纳的旅行没什么比这更糟糕的了，但我在半小时内就做好了准备，并在第二天一早按照约定出发了。我一整天都在旅行，一整天都在想，在这么远的地方，我会被要求做什么。现在我认为它可能是为了这个目的，现在我认为它可能是为了那个目的，但我从来，从来，从来没有接近真相。

It was night when I came to my journey’s end and found my guardian waiting for me. This was a great relief, for towards evening I had begun to fear (the more so as his letter was a very short one) that he might be ill. However, there he was, as well as it was possible to be; and when I saw his genial face again at its brightest and best, I said to myself, he has been doing some other great kindness. Not that it required much penetration to say that, because I knew that his being there at all was an act of kindness.
当我到达旅程的终点​​时，已经是晚上了，我发现我的监护人正在等我。这让我松了口气，因为到了晚上，我开始担心（尤其是因为他的信很短）他可能生病了。然而，他就在那里，而且是有可能的。当我再次看到他那张和蔼可亲的脸庞时，我对自己说，他还做了其他一些伟大的善事。说这句话并不需要太多洞察力，因为我知道他在那里根本就是一种善意的行为。

Supper was ready at the hotel, and when we were alone at table he said, ‘Full of curiosity, no doubt, little woman, to know why I have brought you here?’
旅馆里的晚饭已经准备好了，当我们单独坐在餐桌旁时，他说：“毫无疑问，小女人，充满了好奇，想知道我为什么带你来这里？”

‘Well, guardian,’ said I, ‘without thinking myself a Fatima or you a Blue Beard, I am a little curious about it.’
“好吧，监护人，”我说，“虽然我不认为自己是法蒂玛，也不认为你是蓝胡子，但我对此有点好奇。”

‘Then to ensure your night’s rest, my love,’ he returned gaily, ‘I won’t wait until to-morrow to tell you. I have very much wished to express to Woodcourt, somehow, my sense of his humanity to poor unfortunate Jo, his inestimable services to my young cousins, and his value to us all. When it was decided that he should settle here, it came into my head that I might ask his acceptance of some unpretending and suitable little place to lay his own head in. I therefore caused such a place to be looked out for, and such a place was found on very easy terms, and I have been touching it up for him and making it habitable. However, when I walked over it the day before yesterday and it was reported ready, I found that I was not housekeeper enough to know whether things were all as they ought to be. So I sent off for the best little housekeeper that could possibly be got to come and give me her advice and opinion. And here she is,’ said my guardian, ‘laughing and crying both together!’
“那么，为了确保你晚上休息，亲爱的，”他高兴地回答道，“我不会等到明天才告诉你。”我非常希望以某种方式向伍德考特表达我对他对可怜不幸的乔的人性、他对我年轻表兄弟的不可估量的服务以及他对我们所有人的价值的认识。当决定他要在这里定居时，我突然想到，我可以请他接受一个朴实无华且合适的小地方来安放自己的头。因此，我让人们留意这样一个地方，这样一个地方。这个地方的找到条件非常简单，我一直在为他修饰它并使它适合居住。然而，当我前天走过它，报告已经准备好时，我发现我的管家不够，无法知道事情是否一切顺利。所以我派人去找了最好的小管家，她可能会过来给我建议和意见。 “她就在这里，”我的监护人说，“一边笑一边哭！”

Because he was so dear, so good, so admirable. I tried to tell him what I thought of him, but I could not articulate a word.
因为他是如此可爱，如此优秀，如此令人钦佩。我试图告诉他我对他的看法，但我一个字也说不出来。

‘Tut, tut!’ said my guardian. ‘You make too much of it, little woman. Why, how you sob, Dame Durden, how you sob!’
“啧，啧！”我的监护人说道。 ‘你太过分了，小女人。哎呀，你哭得多么伤心，德登夫人，你哭得多么伤心！”

‘It is with exquisite pleasure, guardian—with a heart full of thanks.’
“这是带着极大的喜悦，守护者——带着一颗充满感激的心。”

‘Well, well,’ said he. ‘I am delighted that you approve. I thought you would. I meant it as a pleasant surprise for the little mistress of Bleak House.’
“好吧，好吧，”他说。 ‘我很高兴你同意。我以为你会的。我的意思是给《荒凉山庄》的小女主人一个惊喜。

I kissed him and dried my eyes. ‘I know now!’ said I. ‘I have seen this in your face a long while.’
我吻了他并擦干了眼睛。 “我现在知道了！”我说，“我在你脸上看到这一点已经很久了。”

‘No; have you really, my dear?’ said he. ‘What a Dame Durden it is to read a face!’
'不;你真的有吗，亲爱的？”他说。 “杜登夫人真是能读懂一张脸啊！”

He was so quaintly cheerful that I could not long be otherwise, and was almost ashamed of having been otherwise at all. When I went to bed, I cried. I am bound to confess that I cried; but I hope it was with pleasure, though I am not quite sure it was with pleasure. I repeated every word of the letter twice over.
他是如此的古怪而快乐，以至于我不可能长久地不高兴，而且几乎为自己的不高兴感到羞愧。当我上床睡觉时，我哭了。我必须承认我哭了；但我希望这是愉快的，尽管我不太确定这是愉快的。我把信中的每一个字都重复了两遍。

A most beautiful summer morning succeeded, and after breakfast we went out arm in arm to see the house of which I was to give my mighty housekeeping opinion. We entered a flower-garden by a gate in a side wall, of which he had the key, and the first thing I saw was that the beds and flowers were all laid out according to the manner of my beds and flowers at home.
一个最美好的夏日早晨到来了，早餐后，我们手挽手出去参观我要对家政提出强烈意见的房子。我们从侧墙的一扇门进入了一个花园，他有钥匙，我首先看到的是花坛和花都是按照我家里的花坛和花的方式布置的。

‘You see, my dear,’ observed my guardian, standing still with a delighted face to watch my looks, ‘knowing there could be no better plan, I borrowed yours.’
“你看，亲爱的，”我的监护人说道，他一动不动地站着，一脸高兴地看着我的样子，“我知道没有更好的计划了，所以我借用了你的计划。”

We went on by a pretty little orchard, where the cherries were nestling among the green leaves and the shadows of the apple-trees were sporting on the grass, to the house itself—a cottage, quite a rustic cottage of doll’s rooms; but such a lovely place, so tranquil and so beautiful, with such a rich and smiling country spread around it; with water sparkling away into the distance, here all overhung with summer-growth, there turning a humming mill; at its nearest point glancing through a meadow by the cheerful town, where cricket-players were assembling in bright groups and a flag was flying from a white tent that rippled in the sweet west wind. And still, as we went through the pretty rooms, out at the little rustic verandah doors, and underneath the tiny wooden colonnades garlanded with woodbine, jasmine, and honey-suckle, I saw in the papering on the walls, in the colours of the furniture, in the arrangement of all the pretty objects, MY little tastes and fancies, MY little methods and inventions which they used to laugh at while they praised them, my odd ways everywhere.
我们继续前行，经过一个漂亮的小果园，那里的樱桃依偎在绿叶之间，苹果树的影子在草地上嬉戏，我们来到了房子本身——一座小屋，一座充满了玩偶房间的质朴小屋；但这是一个多么可爱的地方，多么宁静，多么美丽，周围是一个富饶而微笑的国家。远处的水波闪闪发光，这里长满了夏季的植物，那里转动着嗡嗡作响的磨坊；在最近的地方，可以看到这座令人愉快的小镇旁的一片草地，那里的板球运动员们聚集在一起，色彩鲜艳，白色的帐篷里飘扬着一面旗帜，在甜美的西风中飘扬。尽管如此，当我们穿过漂亮的房间，来到质朴的小阳台门前，在装饰着苦藤、茉莉花和金银花的小木柱廊下面时，我在墙上的墙纸上看到了家具，所有漂亮物品的布置，我的小品味和幻想，我的小方法和发明，他们在称赞它们时常常嘲笑它们，我的奇怪方式无处不在。

I could not say enough in admiration of what was all so beautiful, but one secret doubt arose in my mind when I saw this, I thought, oh, would he be the happier for it! Would it not have been better for his peace that I should not have been so brought before him? Because although I was not what he thought me, still he loved me very dearly, and it might remind him mournfully of what be believed he had lost. I did not wish him to forget me—perhaps he might not have done so, without these aids to his memory—but my way was easier than his, and I could have reconciled myself even to that so that he had been the happier for it.
我对这一切如此美丽的赞叹之情无以言表，但当我看到这一幕时，我心中升起一个秘密的疑问，我想，哦，他会因此而更快乐吗？如果我不被带到他面前，对他的平安不是更好吗？因为虽然我不是他想象的那样，但他仍然非常爱我，这可能会悲伤地提醒他他所失去的东西。我不希望他忘记我——也许他可能不会这样做，如果没有这些记忆辅助工具——但我的方式比他的容易，我什至可以接受这样的安排，这样他会因此而更高兴。

‘And now, little woman,’ said my guardian, whom I had never seen so proud and joyful as in showing me these things and watching my appreciation of them, ‘now, last of all, for the name of this house.’
“现在，小女人，”我的监护人说，我从未见过他如此自豪和快乐地向我展示这些东西并看着我欣赏它们，“现在，最后，为了这座房子的名字。”

‘What is it called, dear guardian?’
“它叫什么名字，亲爱的监护人？”

‘My child,’ said he, ‘come and see,’
“我的孩子，”他说，“过来看看，”

He took me to the porch, which he had hitherto avoided, and said, pausing before we went out, ‘My dear child, don’t you guess the name?’
他把我带到了门廊，这是他迄今为止一直回避的地方，在我们出去之前停下来说道，“我亲爱的孩子，你猜不到这个名字吗？”

‘No!’ said I.
“不！”我说。

We went out of the porch and he showed me written over it, Bleak House.
我们走出门廊，他给我看上面写着“荒凉山庄”。

He led me to a seat among the leaves close by, and sitting down beside me and taking my hand in his, spoke to me thus, ‘My darling girl, in what there has been between us, I have, I hope, been really solicitous for your happiness. When I wrote you the letter to which you brought the answer,’ smiling as he referred to it, ‘I had my own too much in view; but I had yours too. Whether, under different circumstances, I might ever have renewed the old dream I sometimes dreamed when you were very young, of making you my wife one day, I need not ask myself. I did renew it, and I wrote my letter, and you brought your answer. You are following what I say, my child?’
他把我领到附近树叶间的一个座位上，坐在我旁边，握住我的手，对我这样说道：“我亲爱的女孩，在我们之间发生的事情中，我希望，我真的关心您的幸福。当我给你写了一封你带来答复的信时，”他微笑着提到这封信，“我有太多自己的想法;但我也有你的。在不同的情况下，我是否会重温你年轻时有时梦想的旧梦，有一天让你成为我的妻子，我不需要问自己。我确实更新了它，我写了我的信，你带来了你的答复。你听我说的话吗，我的孩子？

I was cold, and I trembled violently, but not a word he uttered was lost. As I sat looking fixedly at him and the sun’s rays descended, softly shining through the leaves upon his bare head, I felt as if the brightness on him must be like the brightness of the angels.
我浑身冰冷，浑身剧烈颤抖，但他却一句话也没漏掉。当我坐在那儿定定地看着他，阳光洒下来，透过树叶，温柔地照在他光秃秃的头上，我觉得他身上的光辉一定像天使的光辉。

‘Hear me, my love, but do not speak. It is for me to speak now. When it was that I began to doubt whether what I had done would really make you happy is no matter. Woodcourt came home, and I soon had no doubt at all.’
‘听我说，亲爱的，但不要说话。现在该由我发言了。当我开始怀疑我所做的事情是否真的能让你幸福的时候，没关系。伍德考特回到家后，我很快就不再怀疑了。

I clasped him round the neck and hung my bead upon his breast and wept. ‘Lie lightly, confidently here, my child,’ said he, pressing me gently to him. ‘I am your guardian and your father now. Rest confidently here.’
我搂住他的脖子，把我的珠子挂在他的胸前哭了起来。 “轻轻地、自信地躺在这里，我的孩子，”他说着，轻轻地将我压向他。 ‘我现在是你的监护人，也是你的父亲。在这里放心地休息。

Soothingly, like the gentle rustling of the leaves; and genially, like the ripening weather; and radiantly and beneficently, like the sunshine, he went on.
舒缓，如树叶轻柔的沙沙声；和蔼可亲，就像成熟的天气；他像阳光一样，容光焕发、仁慈地继续前行。

‘Understand me, my dear girl. I had no doubt of your being contented and happy with me, being so dutiful and so devoted; but I saw with whom you would be happier. That I penetrated his secret when Dame Durden was blind to it is no wonder, for I knew the good that could never change in her better far than she did. Well! I have long been in Allan Woodcourt’s confidence, although he was not, until yesterday, a few hours before you came here, in mine. But I would not have my Esther’s bright example lost; I would not have a jot of my dear girl’s virtues unobserved and unhonoured; I would not have her admitted on sufferance into the line of Morgan ap-Kerrig, no, not for the weight in gold of all the mountains in Wales!’
‘理解我，我亲爱的女孩。我毫不怀疑你对我感到满足和快乐，对我如此尽职尽责，如此忠诚。但我知道你和谁在一起会更快乐。当杜登夫人视而不见时，我却洞悉了他的秘密，这并不奇怪，因为我比她更了解她永远不会改变的优点。出色地！艾伦·伍德考特长期以来一直对我充满信心，尽管直到昨天，也就是你来这里的几个小时前，我才对他充满信心。但我不想失去我的埃丝特的光辉榜样；我不会让我亲爱的女儿的一点点美德不被人注意和不被尊重；我不会让她勉强进入摩根·阿普·克里格的血统，不，不会因为威尔士所有山脉的黄金重量！”

He stopped to kiss me on the forehead, and I sobbed and wept afresh. For I felt as if I could not bear the painful delight of his praise.
他停下来亲吻我的额头，我又抽泣起来。因为我感觉自己似乎无法忍受他的赞美所带来的痛苦的喜悦。

‘Hush, little woman! Don’t cry; this is to be a day of joy. I have looked forward to it,’ he said exultingly, ‘for months on months! A few words more, Dame Trot, and I have said my say. Determined not to throw away one atom of my Esther’s worth, I took Mrs. Woodcourt into a separate confidence. ‘Now, madam,’ said I, ‘I clearly perceive—and indeed I know, to boot—that your son loves my ward. I am further very sure that my ward loves your son, but will sacrifice her love to a sense of duty and affection, and will sacrifice it so completely, so entirely, so religiously, that you should never suspect it though you watched her night and day.’ Then I told her all our story—ours—yours and mine. ‘Now, madam,’ said I, ‘come you, knowing this, and live with us. Come you, and see my child from hour to hour; set what you see against her pedigree, which is this, and this’—for I scorned to mince it—‘and tell me what is the true legitimacy when you shall have quite made up your mind on that subject.’ Why, honour to her old Welsh blood, my dear,’ cried my guardian with enthusiasm, ‘I believe the heart it animates beats no less warmly, no less admiringly, no less lovingly, towards Dame Durden than my own!’
‘嘘，小女人！别哭；这将是一个欢乐的日子。我已经期待了好几个月了，”他兴奋地说，“好几个月了！特罗特夫人，再多说几句话，我已经说了我的话。我决心不放弃我以斯帖的一丁点价值，于是我单独对伍德考特夫人保密。 “现在，夫人，”我说，“我清楚地意识到——事实上我知道——你的儿子爱我的受监护人。我进一步非常确定，我的受监护人爱你的儿子，但会牺牲她的爱来换取责任感和感情，而且会牺牲得如此彻底、如此完全、如此虔诚，以至于你永远不会怀疑这一点，尽管你看着她的夜晚和然后我告诉她我们所有的故事——我们的——你的和我的。 “现在，女士，”我说，“你知道了这一点，就来和我们住在一起吧。”你来吧，时时刻刻看望我的孩子；把你所看到的与她的血统进行比较，就是这个，还有这个”——因为我不屑于拐弯抹角——“当你在这个问题上完全下定决心时，告诉我什么是真正的合法性。”为什么，很荣幸她古老的威尔士血统，亲爱的，”我的监护人热情地喊道，“我相信，它所激发的心，对德登夫人的热情，同样令人钦佩，同样充满爱意，不亚于我自己的心！”

He tenderly raised my head, and as I clung to him, kissed me in his old fatherly way again and again. What a light, now, on the protecting manner I had thought about!
他温柔地抬起我的头，当我紧贴着他时，他以他古老的父亲般的方式一遍又一遍地吻我。现在，我对我所考虑的保护方式有了多大的了解！

‘One more last word. When Allan Woodcourt spoke to you, my dear, he spoke with my knowledge and consent—but I gave him no encouragement, not I, for these surprises were my great reward, and I was too miserly to part with a scrap of it. He was to come and tell me all that passed, and he did. I have no more to say. My dearest, Allan Woodcourt stood beside your father when he lay dead —stood beside your mother. This is Bleak House. This day I give this house its little mistress; and before God, it is the brightest day in all my life!’
‘还有最后一句话。当艾伦·伍德考特对你说话时，亲爱的，他是在我知情和同意的情况下说话的——但我没有给他任何鼓励，因为这些惊喜是我的巨大奖励，而我太吝啬了，无法放弃其中的一小部分。他要来告诉我发生的一切，他做到了。我没有更多可说的了。我最亲爱的，艾伦·伍德考特在你父亲去世时站在他身边——站在你母亲身边。这就是《荒凉山庄》。今天我给这座房子当了小女主人；在上帝面前，这是我一生中最光明的一天！

He rose and raised me with him. We were no longer alone. My husband—I have called him by that name full seven happy years now —stood at my side.
他站起来，把我和他一起抚养长大。我们不再孤单。我的丈夫——我已经用这个名字称呼他整整七年了——站在我身边。

‘Allan,’ said my guardian, ‘take from me a willing gift, the best wife that ever man had. What more can I say for you than that I know you deserve her! Take with her the little home she brings you. You know what she will make it, Allan; you know what she has made its namesake. Let me share its felicity sometimes, and what do I sacrifice? Nothing, nothing.’
“艾伦，”我的监护人说，“请从我这里得到一份心甘情愿的礼物，一个男人拥有的最好的妻子。”除了我知道你配得上她之外，我还能对你说什么呢！带着她给你带来的小家吧。你知道她会做什么，艾伦；你知道她的名字是什么。有时让我分享它的幸福，我要牺牲什么？没事没事。'

He kissed me once again, and now the tears were in his eyes as he said more softly, ‘Esther, my dearest, after so many years, there is a kind of parting in this too. I know that my mistake has caused you some distress. Forgive your old guardian, in restoring him to his old place in your affections; and blot it out of your memory. Allan, take my dear.’
他再次吻了我，眼里含着泪水，他更加轻柔地说：“艾丝特，我最亲爱的，这么多年过去了，这也有一种离别。”我知道我的错误给你带来了一些痛苦。原谅你的老监护人，让他在你的感情中恢复原来的位置；并将其从你的记忆中抹去。艾伦，带上我亲爱的。

He moved away from under the green roof of leaves, and stopping in the sunlight outside and turning cheerfully towards us, said, ‘I shall be found about here somewhere. It’s a west wind, little woman, due west! Let no one thank me any more, for I am going to revert to my bachelor habits, and if anybody disregards this warning, I’ll run away and never come back!’
他从树叶的绿色屋顶下走开，在外面的阳光下停下来，高兴地转向我们，说：“我会在这附近的某个地方被发现。”这是西风，小女人，正西！不要再有人感谢我了，因为我要恢复单身汉的习惯了，如果有人无视这一警告，我就会逃跑，再也不会回来了！

What happiness was ours that day, what joy, what rest, what hope, what gratitude, what bliss! We were to be married before the month was out, but when we were to come and take possession of our own house was to depend on Richard and Ada.
那天我们是多么的幸福，多么的喜悦，多么的休息，多么的希望，多么的感激，多么的幸福！我们本来要在月底之前结婚，但是什么时候我们能拥有自己的房子就得靠理查德和艾达了。

We all three went home together next day. As soon as we arrived in town, Allan went straight to see Richard and to carry our joyful news to him and my darling. Late as it was, I meant to go to her for a few minutes before lying down to sleep, but I went home with my guardian first to make his tea for him and to occupy the old chair by his side, for I did not like to think of its being empty so soon.
第二天我们三个人就一起回家了。我们一到城里，艾伦就直接去见理查德，把我们的喜讯告诉他和我的宝贝。虽然已经很晚了，我本想去找她几分钟，然后躺下睡觉，但我先和我的监护人一起回家，为他泡茶，并占据了他旁边的旧椅子，因为我不喜欢想到它这么快就空了。

When we came home we found that a young man had called three times in the course of that one day to see me and that having been told on the occasion of his third call that I was not expected to return before ten o’clock at night, he had left word that he would call about then. He had left his card three times. Mr. Guppy.
当我们回到家时，我们发现一个年轻人在一天之内给我打了三次电话，而在他第三次打电话时被告知我预计晚上十点之前不会回来。 ，他留下了话，说他届时会打电话询问。他已经三度留下名片了。古比先生。

As I naturally speculated on the object of these visits, and as I always associated something ludicrous with the visitor, it fell out that in laughing about Mr. Guppy I told my guardian of his old proposal and his subsequent retraction. ‘After that,’ said my guardian, ‘we will certainly receive this hero.’ So instructions were given that Mr. Guppy should be shown in when he came again, and they were scarcely given when he did come again.
由于我自然地猜测这些访问的目的，并且由于我总是将一些可笑的事情与来访者联系在一起，所以结果是，在嘲笑孔雀先生时，我告诉了我的监护人他以前的提议以及他随后的撤回。 “在那之后，”我的监护人说，“我们一定会接待这位英雄。”因此，有人指示孔比先生再次来时应带他进来，但当他再次来时，他们几乎没有下达指示。

He was embarrassed when he found my guardian with me, but recovered himself and said, ‘How de do, sir?’
当他发现我的监护人和我在一起时，他感到很尴尬，但他恢复了平静，问道：“怎么样，先生？”

‘How do you do, sir?’ returned my guardian.
“你好吗，先生？”我的监护人回答道。

‘Thank you, sir, I am tolerable,’ returned Mr. Guppy. ‘Will you allow me to introduce my mother, Mrs. Guppy of the Old Street Road, and my particular friend, Mr. Weevle. That is to say, my friend has gone by the name of Weevle, but his name is really and truly Jobling.’
“谢谢您，先生，我可以忍受。”古比先生回答道。 “请允许我介绍一下我的母亲，老街的古比夫人，还有我特别的朋友，威夫勒先生。也就是说，我的朋友的名字是 Weevle，但他的名字确实是 Jobling。

My guardian begged them to be seated, and they all sat down.
我的监护人请他们坐下，他们都坐下了。

‘Tony,’ said Mr. Guppy to his friend after an awkward silence. ‘Will you open the case?’
“托尼，”在一阵尴尬的沉默后，古比先生对他的朋友说道。 “你愿意打开箱子吗？”

‘Do it yourself,’ returned the friend rather tartly.
“你自己做吧，”朋友尖刻地回答道。

‘Well, Mr. Jarndyce, sir,’ Mr. Guppy, after a moment’s consideration, began, to the great diversion of his mother, which she displayed by nudging Mr. Jobling with her elbow and winking at me in a most remarkable manner, ‘I had an idea that I should see Miss Summerson by herself and was not quite prepared for your esteemed presence. But Miss Summerson has mentioned to you, perhaps, that something has passed between us on former occasions?’
“好吧，贾迪斯先生，先生，”顾比先生考虑了一会儿后，开始说道他母亲的极大的消遣，她用肘部碰了碰乔布林先生，并以一种非常引人注目的方式向我眨了眨眼，这表明了这一点， “我有一个想法，我应该单独见见萨默森小姐，但对于尊敬的您的到来我还没有做好准备。但萨默森小姐也许向你提到过，我们之间曾经发生过一些事情？

‘Miss Summerson,’ returned my guardian, smiling, ‘has made a communication to that effect to me.’
“萨默森小姐，”我的监护人微笑着回答道，“已经向我传达了这一点。”

‘That,’ said Mr. Guppy, ‘makes matters easier. Sir, I have come out of my articles at Kenge and Carboy’s, and I believe with satisfaction to all parties. I am now admitted (after undergoing an examination that’s enough to badger a man blue, touching a pack of nonsense that he don’t want to know) on the roll of attorneys and have taken out my certificate, if it would be any satisfaction to you to see it.’
“这样，”古比先生说，“让事情变得更容易了。”先生，我已经在 Kenge 和 Carboy’s 发表了文章，我相信各方都感到满意。我现在已经被录取（经过一次足以让一个人忧郁的考试，接触了一堆他不想知道的废话），并且已经拿出了我的证书，如果你能满意的话。你来看看吧。

‘Thank you, Mr. Guppy,’ returned my guardian. ‘I am quite willing —I believe I use a legal phrase—to admit the certificate.’
“谢谢你，孔雀鱼先生，”我的监护人回答道。 “我非常愿意——我相信我用的是法律用语——承认这个证书。”

Mr. Guppy therefore desisted from taking something out of his pocket and proceeded without it.
因此，古比先生不再从口袋里掏出任何东西，而是继续前行。

I have no capital myself, but my mother has a little property which takes the form of an annuity’—here Mr. Guppy’s mother rolled her head as if she never could sufficiently enjoy the observation, and put her handkerchief to her mouth, and again winked at me—‘and a few pounds for expenses out of pocket in conducting business will never be wanting, free of interest, which is an advantage, you know,’ said Mr. Guppy feelingly.
我自己没有资本，但我母亲有一点财产，以年金的形式出现。”——说到这里，孔雀鱼先生的母亲转了转头，仿佛她永远无法充分享受这种观察，然后把手帕放到嘴边，再次说道。向我眨了眨眼睛——“做生意时自掏腰包的几英镑永远不会缺，而且是免息的，你知道，这是一个优势，”古皮先生感慨地说。

‘Certainly an advantage,’ returned my guardian.
“当然是一个优势，”我的监护人回答道。

‘I HAVE some connexion,’ pursued Mr. Guppy, ‘and it lays in the direction of Walcot Square, Lambeth. I have therefore taken a ‘ouse in that locality, which, in the opinion of my friends, is a hollow bargain (taxes ridiculous, and use of fixtures included in the rent), and intend setting up professionally for myself there forthwith.’
“我有一些联系，”古皮先生继续说道，“它就在兰贝斯沃尔科特广场的方向。”因此，我“在那个地方租了一套房子，在我的朋友看来，这是一笔空洞的交易（税收荒谬，并且使用包含在租金中的固定装置），并打算立即在那里为自己建立职业生涯。”

Here Mr. Guppy’s mother fell into an extraordinary passion of rolling her head and smiling waggishly at anybody who would look at her.
在这里，古比先生的母亲陷入了一种非凡的热情，她对任何看着她的人都摇着头，调皮地微笑。

‘It’s a six-roomer, exclusive of kitchens,’ said Mr. Guppy, ‘and in the opinion of my friends, a commodious tenement. When I mention my friends, I refer principally to my friend Jobling, who I believe has known me,’ Mr. Guppy looked at him with a sentimental air, ‘from boyhood’s hour.’
“这是一间有六间卧室的房子，不包括厨房，”古皮先生说，“在我的朋友们看来，这是一栋宽敞的公寓。”当我提到我的朋友时，我主要指的是我的朋友乔布林，我相信他就认识我了，”古皮先生用一种感伤的神情看着他，“从孩提时代起就认识了。”

Mr. Jobling confirmed this with a sliding movement of his legs.
乔布林先生用双腿的滑动动作证实了这一点。

‘My friend Jobling will render me his assistance in the capacity of clerk and will live in the ‘ouse,’ said Mr. Guppy. ‘My mother will likewise live in the ‘ouse when her present quarter in the Old Street Road shall have ceased and expired; and consequently there will be no want of society. My friend Jobling is naturally aristocratic by taste, and besides being acquainted with the movements of the upper circles, fully backs me in the intentions I am now developing.’
“我的朋友乔布林将以职员的身份为我提供帮助，并将住在‘房子’里，”顾比先生说。 “当我母亲目前在老街的住所停止并到期时，她也将住在这所房子里；”因此就不会有社会的缺乏。我的朋友乔布林天生具有贵族品味，除了熟悉上层圈子的动向外，还完全支持我现在正在发展的意图。

Mr. Jobling said ‘Certainly’ and withdrew a little from the elbow of Mr Guppy’s mother.
乔布林先生说“当然”，然后从古比先生母亲的肘部退了一点。

‘Now, I have no occasion to mention to you, sir, you being in the confidence of Miss Summerson,’ said Mr. Guppy, ‘(mother, I wish you’d be so good as to keep still), that Miss Summerson’s image was formerly imprinted on my ‘eart and that I made her a proposal of marriage.’
“现在，我没有机会向您提及，先生，您是萨默森小姐的秘密，”古皮先生说，“（妈妈，我希望您保持安静），萨默森小姐的这个形象以前就印在我的“心上，我向她求婚了”。

‘That I have heard,’ returned my guardian.
“我听说过，”我的监护人回答道。

‘Circumstances,’ pursued Mr. Guppy, ‘over which I had no control, but quite the contrary, weakened the impression of that image for a time. At which time Miss Summerson’s conduct was highly genteel; I may even add, magnanimous.’
“情况，”顾比先生继续说道，“我无法控制，但恰恰相反，一度削弱了那个形象的印象。当时萨默森小姐的举止非常有教养。我什至可以补充一句，宽宏大量。

My guardian patted me on the shoulder and seemed much amused.
我的监护人拍拍我的肩膀，看上去很有趣。

‘Now, sir,’ said Mr. Guppy, ‘I have got into that state of mind myself that I wish for a reciprocity of magnanimous behaviour. I wish to prove to Miss Summerson that I can rise to a heighth of which perhaps she hardly thought me capable. I find that the image which I did suppose had been eradicated from my ‘eart is NOT eradicated. Its influence over me is still tremenjous, and yielding to it, I am willing to overlook the circumstances over which none of us have had any control and to renew those proposals to Miss Summerson which I had the honour to make at a former period. I beg to lay the ‘ouse in Walcot Square, the business, and myself before Miss Summerson for her acceptance.’
“现在，先生，”顾比先生说，“我自己已经进入了这样的心态，我希望得到一种宽宏大量的行为的回报。我希望向萨默森小姐证明，我可以达到她认为我几乎没有能力达到的高度。我发现我以为已经从我的“心中根除”的形象并没有根除。它对我的影响仍然是巨大的，屈服于它，我愿意忽视我们谁都无法控制的情况，并重申我以前有幸向萨默森小姐提出的那些建议。我请求将“沃尔科特广场的房屋、公司和我自己的情况交给萨默森小姐，以求她的接受。”

‘Very magnanimous indeed, sir,’ observed my guardian.
“确实非常宽宏大量，先生。”我的监护人说道。

‘Well, sir,’ replied Mr. Guppy with candour, ‘my wish is to BE magnanimous. I do not consider that in making this offer to Miss Summerson I am by any means throwing myself away; neither is that the opinion of my friends. Still, there are circumstances which I submit may be taken into account as a set off against any little drawbacks of mine, and so a fair and equitable balance arrived at.’
“好吧，先生，”古比先生坦率地回答，“我的愿望是宽宏大量。”我不认为向萨默森小姐提出这个提议是我自暴自弃。我的朋友们也不是这么认为的。尽管如此，我提交的一些情况可以被考虑作为抵消我的任何小缺点，因此达到了公平公正的平衡。

‘I take upon myself, sir,’ said my guardian, laughing as he rang the bell, ‘to reply to your proposals on behalf of Miss Summerson. She is very sensible of your handsome intentions, and wishes you good evening, and wishes you well.’
“先生，我愿意代表萨默森小姐答复您的建议，”我的监护人按响了门铃，笑着说道。她非常明白你的美好意图，祝你晚安，祝你一切顺利。

‘Oh!’ said Mr. Guppy with a blank look. ‘Is that tantamount, sir, to acceptance, or rejection, or consideration?’
“哦！”孔雀先生一脸茫然地说。 “先生，这是否等于接受、拒绝或考虑？”

‘To decided rejection, if you please,’ returned my guardian.
“请决定拒绝，”我的监护人回答道。

Mr. Guppy looked incredulously at his friend, and at his mother, who suddenly turned very angry, and at the floor, and at the ceiling.
孔雀先生难以置信地看着他的朋友，又看看他的母亲，后者突然变得非常生气，又看看地板，又看看天花板。

‘Indeed?’ said he. ‘Then, Jobling, if you was the friend you represent yourself, I should think you might hand my mother out of the gangway instead of allowing her to remain where she ain’t wanted.’
“真的吗？”他说。 “那么，乔布林，如果你是你所代表的朋友，我想你可能会把我母亲从舷梯上交出来，而不是让她留在她不想要的地方。”

But Mrs. Guppy positively refused to come out of the gangway. She wouldn’t hear of it. ‘Why, get along with you,’ said she to my guardian, ‘what do you mean? Ain’t my son good enough for you? You ought to be ashamed of yourself. Get out with you!’
但古比夫人坚决拒绝从舷梯出来。她不会听到的。 ‘为什么，和你相处，’她对我的监护人说，‘你是什么意思？我儿子配不上你吗？你应该为自己感到羞耻。和你一起出去吧！

‘My good lady,’ returned my guardian, ‘it is hardly reasonable to ask me to get out of my own room.’
“我的好女士，”我的监护人回答道，“让我离开自己的房间是不合理的。”

‘I don’t care for that,’ said Mrs. Guppy. ‘Get out with you. If we ain’t good enough for you, go and procure somebody that is good enough. Go along and find ‘em.’
“我不在乎这个，”古比太太说。 ‘和你一起出去吧。如果我们对你来说不够好，那就去找一个足够好的人。一起去找到“他们”。

I was quite unprepared for the rapid manner in which Mrs. Guppy’s power of jocularity merged into a power of taking the profoundest offence.
我对古比夫人的幽默力量如此之快地融入了最严重冒犯的力量感到非常措手不及。

‘Go along and find somebody that’s good enough for you,’ repeated Mrs. Guppy. ‘Get out!’ Nothing seemed to astonish Mr. Guppy’s mother so much and to make her so very indignant as our not getting out. ‘Why don’t you get out?’ said Mrs. Guppy. ‘What are you stopping here for?’
“去找一个对你来说足够好的人吧，”古比夫人重复道。 “出去！”似乎没有什么比我们不出去更让孔雀先生的母亲感到惊讶和愤怒的了。 “你为什么不出去呢？”古比太太说。 “你在这里停下来做什么？”

‘Mother,’ interposed her son, always getting before her and pushing her back with one shoulder as she sidled at my guardian, ‘WILL you hold your tongue?’
“妈妈，”她的儿子插话道，当她侧身靠近我的监护人时，儿子总是站在她前面，用一只肩膀将她推回去，“你能闭嘴吗？”

‘No, William,’ she returned, ‘I won’t! Not unless he gets out, I won’t!’
“不，威廉，”她回答道，“我不会！”除非他出去，否则我不会！

However, Mr. Guppy and Mr. Jobling together closed on Mr. Guppy’s mother (who began to be quite abusive) and took her, very much against her will, downstairs, her voice rising a stair higher every time her figure got a stair lower, and insisting that we should immediately go and find somebody who was good enough for us, and above all things that we should get out.
然而，古比先生和乔布林先生一起靠近了古比先生的母亲（她开始变得相当粗暴），并非常违背她的意愿，把她带到了楼下，每当她的身形降低一层时，她的声音就会升高一层。 ，并坚持认为我们应该立即去找一个对我们来说足够好的人，最重要的是我们应该放弃的东西。

CHAPTER LXV
第六十五章


Beginning the World
开始世界

The term had commenced, and my guardian found an intimation from Mr. Kenge that the cause would come on in two days. As I had sufficient hopes of the will to be in a flutter about it, Allan and I agreed to go down to the court that morning. Richard was extremely agitated and was so weak and low, though his illness was still of the mind, that my dear girl indeed had sore occasion to be supported. But she looked forward—a very little way now—to the help that was to come to her, and never drooped.
学期已经开始，我的监护人从肯格先生那里得到了暗示，称诉讼将在两天内开始。由于我对这件事抱有足够的希望，所以我和艾伦同意那天早上去法庭。理查德极度焦躁，身体虚弱，情绪低落，尽管他的病仍然困扰着我，我亲爱的女儿确实需要得到支持。但她期待着——现在已经很远了——期待着即将到来的帮助，并且从未懈怠。

It was at Westminster that the cause was to come on. It had come on there, I dare say, a hundred times before, but I could not divest myself of an idea that it MIGHT lead to some result now. We left home directly after breakfast to be at Westminster Hall in good time and walked down there through the lively streets—so happily and strangely it seemed!—together.
这场事业将在威斯敏斯特展开。我敢说，它已经出现过一百次了，但我无法放弃这样的想法：它现在可能会带来一些结果。早餐后，我们立即离开家，赶到了威斯敏斯特大厅，一起穿过热闹的街道——看起来如此幸福而奇怪！——一起。

As we were going along, planning what we should do for Richard and Ada, I heard somebody calling ‘Esther! My dear Esther! Esther!’ And there was Caddy Jellyby, with her head out of the window of a little carriage which she hired now to go about in to her pupils (she had so many), as if she wanted to embrace me at a hundred yards’ distance. I had written her a note to tell her of all that my guardian had done, but had not had a moment to go and see her. Of course we turned back, and the affectionate girl was in that state of rapture, and was so overjoyed to talk about the night when she brought me the flowers, and was so determined to squeeze my face (bonnet and all) between her hands, and go on in a wild manner altogether, calling me all kinds of precious names, and telling Allan I had done I don’t know what for her, that I was just obliged to get into the little carriage and caln her down by letting her say and do exactly what she liked. Allan, standing at the window, was as pleased as Caddy; and I was as pleased as either of them; and I wonder that I got away as I did, rather than that I came off laughing, and red, and anything but tidy, and looking after Caddy, who looked after us out of the coach-window as long as she could see us.
当我们继续计划我们应该为理查德和艾达做些什么时，我听到有人喊“埃丝特！”我亲爱的埃丝特！以斯帖！”还有凯迪·杰利比，她把头伸出一辆小马车的窗外，她现在租了一辆小马车去见她的学生（她有很多学生），好像她想在一百码外拥抱我。距离。我给她写了一张纸条，告诉她我的监护人所做的一切，但没有时间去看她。当然，我们回头了，那个深情的女孩正处于那种狂喜的状态，她非常高兴地谈论她给我送花的那个夜晚，并且决心用双手捏住我的脸（帽子和所有的东西），继续疯狂地叫我各种珍贵的名字，并告诉艾伦我为她做了什么，我不知道为她做了什么，我只是不得不进入小马车并让她平静下来说、做她喜欢做的事。艾伦站在窗前，和凯迪一样高兴。我和他们一样高兴；我想知道我是这样逃走的，而不是我笑着离开，脸红了，一点也不整洁，并照顾着凯蒂，只要她能看到我们，她就会在车窗外照顾我们。

This made us some quarter of an hour late, and when we came to Westminster Hall we found that the day’s business was begun. Worse than that, we found such an unusual crowd in the Court of Chancery that it was full to the door, and we could neither see nor hear what was passing within. It appeared to be something droll, for occasionally there was a laugh and a cry of ‘Silence!’ It appeared to be something interesting, for every one was pushing and striving to get nearer. It appeared to be something that made the professional gentlemen very merry, for there were several young counsellors in wigs and whiskers on the outside of the crowd, and when one of them told the others about it, they put their hands in their pockets, and quite doubled themselves up with laughter, and went stamping about the pavement of the Hall.
这让我们迟到了大约一刻钟，当我们来到威斯敏斯特大厅时，发现当天的工作已经开始了。更糟糕的是，我们在大法官法院发现了如此不寻常的人群，以至于门口都挤满了人，我们既看不到也听不到里面的情况。这似乎是一件滑稽的事情，因为偶尔会有一阵笑声和一声“安静！”的叫喊声，这似乎是一件有趣的事情，因为每个人都在推挤着，努力靠近。这似乎是一件让职业绅士们非常高兴的事情，因为人群外面有几个戴着假发、留着胡须的年轻辅导员，当其中一个告诉其他人这件事时，他们把手插进口袋，然后笑得弯腰，在大厅的人行道上跺着脚。

We asked a gentleman by us if he knew what cause was on. He told us Jarndyce and Jarndyce. We asked him if he knew what was doing in it. He said really, no he did not, nobody ever did, but as well as he could make out, it was over. Over for the day? we asked him. No, he said, over for good.
我们问身边的一位绅士是否知道原因是什么。他告诉我们加迪斯和加迪斯。我们问他是否知道里面在做什么。他说真的，不，他没有这样做，从来没有人这样做过，但据他所知，一切都结束了。这一天结束了吗？我们问他。不，他说，永远结束了。

Over for good!
永远结束了！

When we heard this unaccountable answer, we looked at one another quite lost in amazement. Could it be possible that the will had set things right at last and that Richard and Ada were going to be rich? It seemed too good to be true. Alas it was!
当我们听到这个莫名其妙的答案时，我们面面相觑，惊讶不已。有没有可能遗嘱最终把一切都安排好了，理查德和艾达会变得富有？这似乎好得令人难以置信。唉，原来如此！

Our suspense was short, for a break-up soon took place in the crowd, and the people came streaming out looking flushed and hot and bringing a quantity of bad air with them. Still they were all exceedingly amused and were more like people coming out from a farce or a juggler than from a court of justice. We stood aside, watching for any countenance we knew, and presently great bundles of paper began to be carried out—bundles in bags, bundles too large to be got into any bags, immense masses of papers of all shapes and no shapes, which the bearers staggered under, and threw down for the time being, anyhow, on the Hall pavement, while they went back to bring out more. Even these clerks were laughing. We glanced at the papers, and seeing Jarndyce and Jarndyce everywhere, asked an official-looking person who was standing in the midst of them whether the cause was over. Yes, he said, it was all up with it at last, and burst out laughing too.
我们的悬念很短，因为人群中很快就发生了分手，人们涌了出来，脸色通红，浑身燥热，还带着一股恶气。尽管如此，他们还是都被逗乐了，更像是从一场闹剧或杂技演员中走出来的人，而不是从法庭上走出来的人。我们站在一旁，注视着我们认识的任何人的表情，不久，大捆的纸开始被搬出——装在袋子里的捆，捆得太大而无法装进任何袋子的捆，大量的各种形状和不形状的纸张，搬运工摇摇晃晃地跌倒在地，无论如何，暂时扔在大厅的人行道上，同时他们又回去搬出更多的东西。连这些店员都笑了。我们扫了一眼报纸，到处都是加迪斯和加迪斯，就问站在他们中间的一个官员模样的人，事情是否已经结束了。是的，他说，一切终于结束了，然后也笑了起来。

At this juncture we perceived Mr. Kenge coming out of court with an affable dignity upon him, listening to Mr. Vholes, who was deferential and carried his own bag. Mr. Vholes was the first to see us. ‘Here is Miss Summerson, sir,’ he said. ‘And Mr. Woodcourt.’
就在这个时候，我们看到肯格先生带着和蔼可亲的尊严走出法庭，听着弗霍尔斯先生的讲话，弗霍尔斯先生恭敬地拿着自己的包。 Vholes 先生是第一个见到我们的人。 “这是萨默森小姐，先生，”他说。 “还有伍德考特先生。”

‘Oh, indeed! Yes. Truly!’ said Mr. Kenge, raising his hat to me with polished politeness. ‘How do you do? Glad to see you. Mr. Jarndyce is not here?’
‘噢，确实如此！是的。真的！”肯吉先生礼貌地向我举起帽子说道。 '你好吗？很高兴见到你。贾迪斯先生不在吗？

No. He never came there, I reminded him.
不，我提醒他，他从来没有来过那里。

‘Really,’ returned Mr. Kenge, ‘it is as well that he is NOT here to-day, for his—shall I say, in my good friend’s absence, his indomitable singularity of opinion?—might have been strengthened, perhaps; not reasonably, but might have been strengthened.’
“真的，”肯吉先生回答道，“他今天不在这里也好，因为他的——我应该说，在我的好朋友不在的情况下，他不屈不挠的独特观点吗？——也许会得到加强；但他的观点可能会得到加强。”不合理，但可能会得到加强。

‘Pray what has been done to-day?’ asked Allan.
“请问今天做了什么？”艾伦问道。

‘I beg your pardon?’ said Mr. Kenge with excessive urbanity.
“请原谅？”肯格先生非常客气地说。

‘What has been done to-day?’
“今天做了什么？”

‘What has been done,’ repeated Mr. Kenge. ‘Quite so. Yes. Why, not much has been done; not much. We have been checked—brought up suddenly, I would say—upon the—shall I term it threshold?’
“已经做了什么，”肯格先生重复道。 '这么。是的。哎呀，我们并没有做太多事情。不多。我们已经被检查了——我想说，突然被提起来——在——我可以称之为阈值吗？

‘Is this will considered a genuine document, sir?’ said Allan. ‘Will you tell us that?’
“先生，这遗嘱算是一份真实的文件吗？”艾伦说。 “你能告诉我们吗？”

‘Most certainly, if I could,’ said Mr. Kenge; ‘but we have not gone into that, we have not gone into that.’
“当然，如果我可以的话，”肯吉先生说。 “但我们还没有讨论这个问题，我们还没有讨论这个问题。”

‘We have not gone into that,’ repeated Mr. Vholes as if his low inward voice were an echo.
“我们还没有讨论这个，”沃尔斯先生重复道，仿佛他内心低沉的声音是一种回声。

‘You are to reflect, Mr. Woodcourt,’ observed Mr. Kenge, using his silver trowel persuasively and smoothingly, ‘that this has been a great cause, that this has been a protracted cause, that this has been a complex cause. Jarndyce and Jarndyce has been termed, not inaptly, a monument of Chancery practice.’
“伍德考特先生，你要反思，”肯格先生用他的银抹子很有说服力地、平稳地说道，“这是一个伟大的事业，这是一个长期的事业，这是一个复杂的事业。”詹迪斯和詹迪斯被称为大法官法庭实践的纪念碑，这并非不恰当。

‘And patience has sat upon it a long time,’ said Allan.
“耐心已经等待了很长时间了，”艾伦说。

‘Very well indeed, sir,’ returned Mr. Kenge with a certain condeseending laugh he had. ‘Very well! You are further to reflect, Mr. Woodcourt,’ becoming dignified almost to severity, ‘that on the numerous difficulties, contingencies, masterly fictions, and forms of procedure in this great cause, there has been expended study, ability, eloquence, knowledge, intellect, Mr. Woodcourt, high intellect. For many years, the—a—I would say the flower of the bar, and the—a—I would presume to add, the matured autumnal fruits of the woolsack—have been lavished upon Jarndyce and Jarndyce. If the public have the benefit, and if the country have the adornment, of this great grasp, it must be paid for in money or money’s worth, sir.’
“确实很好，先生。”肯吉先生带着一种居高临下的笑声回答道。 '很好！伍德考特先生，您要进一步反思，“变得庄严得近乎严厉，”在这项伟大事业中的无数困难、偶然事件、精妙的虚构和程序形式中，有大量的研究、能力、口才、知识、智力，伍德考特先生，智力很高。多年来，我想说的是酒吧之花，还有羊毛袋成熟的秋季果实，这些都被大量地奉献给了加迪斯和加迪斯。如果公众能从这种伟大的掌握中受益，如果国家有这种伟大的掌握，那么就必须用金钱或金钱的价值来支付，先生。

‘Mr. Kenge,’ said Allan, appearing enlightened all in a moment. ‘Excuse me, our time presses. Do I understand that the whole estate is found to have been absorbed in costs?’
'先生。肯格，”艾伦说道，瞬间显得恍然大悟。 ‘对不起，我们的时间很紧迫。我是否理解整个遗产已被纳入成本？

‘Hem! I believe so,’ returned Mr. Kenge. ‘Mr. Vholes, what do YOU say?’
‘哼！我相信是这样，”肯吉先生回答道。 '先生。维勒斯，你说什么？

‘I believe so,’ said Mr. Vholes.
“我相信是这样，”沃尔斯先生说。

‘And that thus the suit lapses and melts away?’
“那么诉讼就会失效并消失吗？”

‘Probably,’ returned Mr. Kenge. ‘Mr. Vholes?’
“可能，”肯吉先生回答道。 '先生。沃勒斯？

‘Probably,’ said Mr. Vholes.
“可能吧，”沃尔斯先生说。

‘My dearest life,’ whispered Allan, ‘this will break Richard’s heart!’
“我最亲爱的生命，”艾伦低声说道，“这会让理查德心碎！”

There was such a shock of apprehension in his face, and he knew Richard so perfectly, and I too had seen so much of his gradual decay, that what my dear girl had said to me in the fullness of her foreboding love sounded like a knell in my ears.
他的脸上充满了恐惧，他对理查德如此了解，我也看到了他逐渐衰弱的情况，所以我亲爱的女孩充满不祥之爱对我说的话听起来就像丧钟。在我耳边。

‘In case you should be wanting Mr. C., sir,’ said Mr. Vholes, coming after us, ‘you’ll find him in court. I left him there resting himself a little. Good day, sir; good day, Miss Summerson.’ As he gave me that slowly devouring look of his, while twisting up the strings of his bag before he hastened with it after Mr. Kenge, the benignant shadow of whose conversational presence he seemed afraid to leave, he gave one gasp as if he had swallowed the last morsel of his client, and his black buttoned-up unwholesome figure glided away to the low door at the end of the Hall.
“如果您需要 C. 先生，先生，”沃尔斯先生跟在我们后面说道，“您会在法庭上找到他的。”我让他在那里休息一会儿。美好的一天，先生；美好的一天，萨默森小姐。”当他用他那种慢慢吞噬的眼神看着我时，他一边扭着包的绳子，一边加快脚步追赶肯格先生，他似乎不敢离开肯格先生的亲切的影子，他喘了口气，仿佛吞下了委托人的最后一口食物，他黑色的、扣着纽扣的、不健康的身影滑向大厅尽头的低矮门。

‘My dear love,’ said Allan, ‘leave to me, for a little while, the charge you gave me. Go home with this intelligence and come to Ada’s by and by!’
“我亲爱的，”艾伦说，“暂时把你交给我的任务交给我吧。”带着这个情报回家，一会儿就到艾达那里去！”

I would not let him take me to a coach, but entreated him to go to Richard without a moment’s delay and leave me to do as he wished. Hurrying home, I found my guardian and told him gradually with what news I had returned. ‘Little woman,’ said he, quite unmoved for himself, ‘to have done with the suit on any terms is a greater blessing than I had looked for. But my poor young cousins!’
我不让他带我去马车，但恳求他立刻去找理查德，让我按照他的意愿去做。我赶回家，找到了监护人，慢慢地告诉了他我回来的消息。 “小女人，”他说，自己一点也不为所动，“不管怎样，能穿上这套衣服，这比我所期待的还要大。”但我可怜的年轻表兄弟们！

We talked about them all the morning and discussed what it was possible to do. In the afternoon my guardian walked with me to Symond’s Inn and left me at the door. I went upstairs. When my darling heard my footsteps, she came out into the small passage and threw her arms round my neck, but she composed herself direcfly and said that Richard had asked for me several times. Allan had found him sitting in the corner of the court, she told me, like a stone figure. On being roused, he had broken away and made as if he would have spoken in a fierce voice to the judge. He was stopped by his mouth being full of blood, and Allan had brought him home.
我们整个早上都在谈论它们，并讨论可以做什么。下午，我的监护人陪我走到西蒙旅馆，把我留在门口。我上楼了。当我的宝贝听到我的脚步声时，她走到小过道里，用双臂搂住我的脖子，但她直接镇定下来，说理查德已经找过我好几次了。她告诉我，艾伦发现他坐在球场的角落里，就像一个石像。当他被惊醒时，他挣脱了出来，做出一副要对法官大声说话的样子。他被满嘴的血阻止了，艾伦把他带回家了。

He was lying on a sofa with his eyes closed when I went in. There were restoratives on the table; the room was made as airy as possible, and was darkened, and was very orderly and quiet. Allan stood behind him watching him gravely. His face appeared to me to be quite destitute of colour, and now that I saw him without his seeing me, I fully saw, for the first time, how worn away he was. But he looked handsomer than I had seen him look for many a day.
我进去的时候，他正躺在沙发上，闭着眼睛。桌子上放着补品。房间尽可能通风，光线昏暗，非常有序和安静。艾伦站在他身后，严肃地看着他。在我看来，他的脸色毫无血色，现在我看到了他，而他却没有看到我，我第一次完全看出他是多么憔悴。但他看起来比我很多天见到的他都要英俊。

I sat down by his side in silence. Opening his eyes by and by, he said in a weak voice, but with his old smile, ‘Dame Durden, kiss me, my dear!’
我默默地坐在他身边。渐渐地，他睁开了眼睛，用微弱的声音说道，但脸上带着古老的微笑：“德登夫人，吻我吧，亲爱的！”

It was a great comfort and surprise to me to find him in his low state cheerful and looking forward. He was happier, he said, in our intended marriage than he could find words to tell me. My husband had been a guardian angel to him and Ada, and he blessed us both and wished us all the joy that life could yield us. I almost felt as if my own heart would have broken when I saw him take my husband’s hand and hold it to his breast.
发现他在情绪低落时心情愉快、充满期待，这让我感到极大的安慰和惊喜。他说，他对我们预定的婚姻感到幸福，无法用言语来告诉我。我的丈夫一直是他和艾达的守护天使，他祝福我们俩，并祝愿我们生活能带给我们所有的快乐。当我看到他握住我丈夫的手并将其放在胸前时，我几乎感觉自己的心都要碎了。

We spoke of the future as much as possible, and he said several times that he must be present at our marriage if he could stand upon his feet. Ada would contrive to take him, somehow, he said. ‘Yes, surely, dearest Richard!’ But as my darling answered him thus hopefully, so serene and beautiful, with the help that was to come to her so near—I knew—I knew!
我们尽可能多地谈论未来，他多次说过，如果他能站起来，他就必须出席我们的婚礼。他说，艾达会想方设法带走他。 “是的，当然，亲爱的理查德！”但是当我的宝贝如此满怀希望地、如此平静而美丽地回答他时，在她如此接近的帮助下——我知道——我知道！

It was not good for him to talk too much, and when he was silent, we were silent too. Sitting beside him, I made a pretence of working for my dear, as he had always been used to joke about my being busy. Ada leaned upon his pillow, holding his head upon her arm. He dozed often, and whenever he awoke without seeing him, said first of all, ‘Where is Woodcourt?’
他说话太多不好，当他沉默时，我们也沉默。我坐在他旁边，假装为亲爱的工作，因为他总是开玩笑说我很忙。艾达靠在他的枕头上，把他的头枕在她的手臂上。他经常打瞌睡，每当他醒来看不到他时，他首先会问：“伍德考特在哪里？”

Evening had come on when I lifted up my eyes and saw my guardian standing in the little hall. ‘Who is that, Dame Durden?’ Richard asked me. The door was behind him, but he had observed in my face that some one was there.
当我抬起眼睛，看到我的监护人站在小大厅里时，已经是晚上了。 “德登夫人，那人是谁？”理查德问我。门在他身后，但他从我的脸上看出有人在那里。

I looked to Allan for advice, and as he nodded ‘Yes,’ bent over Richard and told him. My guardian saw what passed, came softly by me in a moment, and laid his hand on Richard’s. ‘Oh, sir,’ said Richard, ‘you are a good man, you are a good man!’ and burst into tears for the first time.
我向艾伦寻求建议，当他点点头说“是”时，我弯下腰告诉他。我的监护人看到了发生的一切，立刻轻轻地从我身边走过，将他的手放在理查德的手上。 “哦，先生，”理查德说，“你是一个好人，你是一个好人！”他第一次哭了起来。

My guardian, the picture of a good man, sat down in my place, keeping his hand on Richard’s.
我的监护人，一个好人的形象，坐在我的位置上，把手放在理查德的手上。

‘My dear Rick,’ said he, ‘the clouds have cleared away, and it is bright now. We can see now. We were all bewildered, Rick, more or less. What matters! And how are you, my dear boy?’
“我亲爱的瑞克，”他说，“乌云已经散去，现在天亮了。”我们现在可以看到了。瑞克，我们或多或少都感到困惑。有什么关系！你好吗，我亲爱的孩子？

‘I am very weak, sir, but I hope I shall be stronger. I have to begin the world.’
“我很虚弱，先生，但我希望我能变得更坚强。我必须开始这个世界。

‘Aye, truly; well said!’ cried my guardian.
是的，确实如此；说得好！”我的监护人喊道。

‘I will not begin it in the old way now,’ said Richard with a sad smile. ‘I have learned a lesson now, sir. It was a hard one, but you shall be assured, indeed, that I have learned it.’
“我现在不会再用以前的方式开始了，”理查德悲伤地微笑着说道。 “我现在已经吸取了教训，先生。这很难，但你可以放心，我确实学会了。”

‘Well, well,’ said my guardian, comforting him; ‘well, well, well, dear boy!’
“好吧，好吧，”我的监护人安慰他说。 “好吧，好吧，好吧，亲爱的孩子！”

‘I was thinking, sir,’ resumed Richard, ‘that there is nothing on earth I should so much like to see as their house—Dame Durden’s and Woodcourt’s house. If I could be removed there when I begin to recover my strength, I feel as if I should get well there sooner than anywhere.’
“我在想，先生，”理查德继续说道，“世界上没有什么比他们的房子——杜登夫人和伍德考特的房子更让我想去看看的了。如果我能在我开始恢复体力时被转移到那里，我觉得我应该比任何地方都更快康复。

‘Why, so have I been thinking too, Rick,’ said my guardian, ‘and our little woman likewise; she and I have been talking of it this very day. I dare say her husband won’t object. What do you think?’
“为什么，我也是这么想的，里克，”我的监护人说，“我们的小女人也是如此；我和她今天一直在谈论这件事。我敢说她丈夫不会反对。你怎么认为？'

Richard smiled and lifted up his arm to touch him as he stood behind the head of the couch.
当理查德站在沙发床头后面时，他微笑着抬起手臂触碰他。

‘I say nothing of Ada,’ said Richard, ‘but I think of her, and have thought of her very much. Look at her! See her here, sir, bending over this pillow when she has so much need to rest upon it herself, my dear love, my poor girl!’
“我没有提到艾达，”理查德说，“但我想起了她，而且非常想念她。看着她！看到她在这里，先生，当她非常需要靠在枕头上休息时，她弯腰在枕头上，我亲爱的爱人，我可怜的女孩！

He clasped her in his arms, and none of us spoke. He gradually released her, and she looked upon us, and looked up to heaven, and moved her lips.
他把她搂在怀里，我们谁都没有说话。他逐渐松开了她，她看着我们，仰望天空，动了动嘴唇。

‘When I get down to Bleak House,’ said Richard, ‘I shall have much to tell you, sir, and you will have much to show me. You will go, won’t you?’
“当我到达荒凉山庄时，”理查德说，“我有很多东西要告诉你，先生，你也会有很多东西要给我看。你会去的，不是吗？

‘Undoubtedly, dear Rick.’
“毫无疑问，亲爱的瑞克。”

‘Thank you; like you, like you,’ said Richard. ‘But it’s all like you. They have been telling me how you planned it and how you remembered all Esther’s familiar tastes and ways. It will be like coming to the old Bleak House again.’
'谢谢;就像你，就像你，”理查德说。 ‘但一切都像你。他们一直告诉我你是如何计划的，以及你如何记住埃斯特所有熟悉的品味和方式。这就像再次来到古老的荒凉山庄一样。

‘And you will come there too, I hope, Rick. I am a solitary man now, you know, and it will be a charity to come to me. A charity to come to me, my love!’ he repeated to Ada as he gently passed his hand over her golden hair and put a lock of it to his lips. (I think he vowed within himself to cherish her if she were left alone.)
“我希望你也会去那里，里克。你知道，我现在是一个孤独的人，能来找我将是一种慈善。 “这是对我的善行，我的爱人！”他对艾达重复道，同时轻轻地用手抚过她金色的头发，把一绺放在唇边。 （我想他心里发誓，如果她独自一人，他会珍惜她。）

‘It was a troubled dream?’ said Richard, clasping both my guardian’s hands eagerly.
“这是一个困扰的梦吗？”理查德急切地握住我监护人的双手说道。

‘Nothing more, Rick; nothing more.’
“仅此而已，瑞克；而已。'

‘And you, being a good man, can pass it as such, and forgive and pity the dreamer, and be lenient and encouraging when he wakes?’
“而你，作为一个好人，可以这样对待它，原谅和怜悯梦者，并在他醒来时宽容和鼓励他吗？”

‘Indeed I can. What am I but another dreamer, Rick?’
‘我确实可以。我不是另一个梦想家吗，瑞克？

‘I will begin the world!’ said Richard with a light in his eyes.
“我将开始这个世界！”理查德眼中闪烁着光芒。

My husband drew a little nearer towards Ada, and I saw him solemnly lift up his hand to warn my guardian.
我的丈夫向艾达靠近了一点，我看到他郑重地举起手来警告我的监护人。

‘When shall I go from this place to that pleasant country where the old times are, where I shall have strength to tell what Ada has been to me, where I shall be able to recall my many faults and blindnesses, where I shall prepare myself to be a guide to my unborn child?’ said Richard. ‘When shall I go?’
“我什么时候才能离开这个地方，去那个令人愉快的国家，那里有旧时光，在那里我将有力量讲述艾达对我的影响，在那里我将能够回忆起我的许多错误和盲目，在那里我将做好准备成为我未出生孩子的向导？”理查德说。 “我什么时候去？”

‘Dear Rick, when you are strong enough,’ returned my guardian.
“亲爱的瑞克，当你足够强大时，”我的监护人回答道。

‘Ada, my darling!’
“艾达，我亲爱的！”

He sought to raise himself a little. Allan raised him so that she could hold him on her bosom, which was what he wanted.
他试图把自己抬高一点。艾伦把他抱起来，这样她就可以把他抱在怀里，这就是他想要的。

‘I have done you many wrongs, my own. I have fallen like a poor stray shadow on your way, I have married you to poverty and trouble, I have scattered your means to the winds. You will forgive me all this, my Ada, before I begin the world?’
‘我对你做了很多错事，我自己的。我像一个可怜的流浪影子一样倒在你的路上，我让你嫁给了贫穷和麻烦，我让你的财产随风飘散。在我开始这个世界之前，我的艾达，你会原谅我这一切吗？

A smile irradiated his face as she bent to kiss him. He slowly laid his face down upon her bosom, drew his arms closer round her neck, and with one parting sob began the world. Not this world, oh, not this! The world that sets this right.
当她弯下腰去吻他时，他的脸上绽放出微笑。他慢慢地将脸埋在她怀里，用双臂搂住她的脖子，伴随着一声临别抽泣，世界开始了。不是这个世界，哦，不是这个！这个世界纠正了这一点。

When all was still, at a late hour, poor crazed Miss Flite came weeping to me and told me she had given her birds their liberty.
当一切都安静下来的时候，已经很晚了，可怜的疯狂的弗利特小姐哭着来到我身边，告诉我她已经给了她的鸟儿自由。

CHAPTER LXVI
第六十六章


Down in Lincolnshire
位于林肯郡

There is a hush upon Chesney Wold in these altered days, as there is upon a portion of the family history. The story goes that Sir Leicester paid some who could have spoken out to hold their peace; but it is a lame story, feebly whispering and creeping about, and any brighter spark of life it shows soon dies away. It is known for certain that the handsome Lady Dedlock lies in the mausoleum in the park, where the trees arch darkly overhead, and the owl is heard at night making the woods ring; but whence she was brought home to be laid among the echoes of that solitary place, or how she died, is all mystery. Some of her old friends, principally to be found among the peachy-cheeked charmers with the skeleton throats, did once occasionally say, as they toyed in a ghastly manner with large fans—like charmers reduced to flirting with grim death, after losing all their other beaux—did once occasionally say, when the world assembled together, that they wondered the ashes of the Dedlocks, entombed in the mausoleum, never rose against the profanation of her company. But the dead-and-gone Dedlocks take it very calmly and have never been known to object.
在这些变化的日子里，切斯尼沃尔德一片寂静，就像家族历史的一部分一样。据说，莱斯特爵士付钱给一些本可以发声的人，让他们保持沉默。但这是一个蹩脚的故事，有气无力地低声细语，悄无声息，它所展现的任何明亮的生命火花很快就会消失。众所周知，英俊的戴德洛克夫人躺在公园的陵墓里，那里的树木在头顶上呈黑暗的拱形，晚上可以听到猫头鹰的叫声，让树林里响起；但她从哪里被带回家，安葬在那个偏僻地方的回声中，或者她是怎么死的，都是个谜。她的一些老朋友，主要是那些长着骷髅喉咙的桃色脸颊的魔术师，偶尔会这样说，因为他们以一种可怕的方式玩弄着大扇子——就像魔术师在失去了所有的能力后，沦落到与可怕的死亡调情一样。其他花花公子——当世界聚集在一起时，他们偶尔会说，他们想知道埋在陵墓中的戴德洛克家族的骨灰，从来没有在她的陪伴下升起。但已经去世的戴德洛克夫妇却非常冷静地对待这件事，而且从来没有反对过。

Up from among the fern in the hollow, and winding by the bridleroad among the trees, comes sometimes to this lonely spot the sound of horses’ hoofs. Then may be seen Sir Leicester—invalided, bent, and almost blind, but of worthy presence yet—riding with a stalwart man beside him, constant to his bridle-rein. When they come to a certain spot before the mausoleum-door, Sir Leicester’s accustomed horse stops of his own accord, and Sir Leicester, pulling off his hat, is still for a few moments before they ride away.
从洼地里的蕨丛中，沿着树林间的马路蜿蜒而上，有时，这个偏僻的地方会传来马蹄声。然后可以看到莱斯特爵士——残疾、弯腰、几乎失明，但仍值得一提——他身边有一个壮实的男人骑马，始终控制着他的缰绳。当他们来到陵墓门前的某个地方时，莱斯特爵士惯常的马自行停下来，莱斯特爵士脱下帽子，静止了一会儿，然后他们就骑马离开了。

War rages yet with the audacious Boythorn, though at uncertain intervals, and now hotly, and now coolly, flickering like an unsteady fire. The truth is said to be that when Sir Leicester came down to Lincolnshire for good, Mr. Boythorn showed a manifest desire to abandon his right of way and do whatever Sir Leicester would, which Sir Leicester, conceiving to be a condescension to his illness or misfortune, took in such high dudgeon, and was so magnificently aggrieved by, that Mr. Boythorn found himself under the necessity of committing a flagrant trespass to restore his neighbour to himself. Similarly, Mr. Boythorn continues to post tremendous placards on the disputed thoroughfare and (with his bird upon his head) to hold forth vehemently against Sir Leicester in the sanctuary of his own home; similarly, also, he defies him as of old in the little church by testifying a bland unconsciousness of his existence. But it is whispered that when he is most ferocious towards his old foe, he is really most considerate, and that Sir Leicester, in the dignity of being implacable, little supposes how much he is humoured. As little does he think how near together he and his antagonist have suffered in the fortunes of two sisters, and his antagonist, who knows it now, is not the man to tell him. So the quarrel goes on to the satisfaction of both.
战争仍在与大胆的博伊索恩进行，尽管间隔时间不确定，时而激烈，时而冷静，像不稳定的火焰一样闪烁。据说，事实是，当莱斯特爵士永远来到林肯郡时，博伊索恩先生表现出明显的愿望，要放弃他的通行权，做莱斯特爵士想做的任何事，莱斯特爵士认为这是对他的疾病或疾病的屈尊俯就。博伊索恩先生发现自己必须公然侵入，才能将邻居归还给自己。同样，博伊索恩先生继续在有争议的大道上张贴巨大的标语牌，并（头上戴着鸟）在自己家的避难所中激烈反对莱斯特爵士；同样，他也像往常一样在小教堂里反抗他，证明他对他的存在表现出一种温和的无意识。但有传言说，当他对老对手最凶猛时，他实际上是最体贴的，莱斯特爵士以不屈不挠的尊严，很少有人想象他有多么幽默。他几乎没有想到，他和他的对手在两姐妹的命运中所遭受的苦难是多么紧密，而他的对手现在知道了，却不是告诉他的人。就这样，争吵一直持续到双方都满意为止。

In one of the lodges of the park—that lodge within sight of the house where, once upon a time, when the waters were out down in Lincolnshire, my Lady used to see the keeper’s child—the stalwart man, the trooper formerly, is housed. Some relics of his old calling hang upon the walls, and these it is the chosen recreation of a little lame man about the stable-yard to keep gleaming bright. A busy little man he always is, in the polishing at harness-house doors, of stirrup-irons, bits, curb-chains, harness bosses, anything in the way of a stable-yard that will take a polish, leading a life of friction. A shaggy little damaged man, withal, not unlike an old dog of some mongrel breed, who has been considerably knocked about. He answers to the name of Phil.
在公园的一间小屋里——那个小屋在房子的视野范围内，很久以前，当林肯郡的水流出来时，我的夫人经常看到看门人的孩子——那个坚定的男人，以前的士兵，正在那里。安置。墙上挂着一些他昔日职业的遗物，这些是马厩院子里一个小瘸子选择的消遣，以保持闪闪发光。他总是一个忙碌的小个子，在马具房的门上抛光马镫铁、马具、锁链、马具凸台，以及任何马厩院子里需要抛光的东西，过着一种摩擦。一个毛茸茸的小受伤男人，而且，与某种杂种品种的老狗没有什么不同，它被严重撞倒了。他回应了菲尔的名字。

A goodly sight it is to see the grand old housekeeper (harder of hearing now) going to church on the arm of her son and to observe— which few do, for the house is scant of company in these times—the relations of both towards Sir Leicester, and his towards them. They have visitors in the high summer weather, when a grey cloak and umbrella, unknown to Chesney Wold at other periods, are seen among the leaves; when two young ladies are occasionally found gambolling in sequestered saw-pits and such nooks of the park; and when the smoke of two pipes wreathes away into the fragrant evening air from the trooper’s door. Then is a fife heard trolling within the lodge on the inspiring topic of the ‘British Grenadiers”; and as the evening closes in, a gruff inflexible voice is heard to say, while two men pace together up and down, ‘But I never own to it before the old girl. Discipline must be maintained.’
看到那位伟大的老管家（现在听力不好了）挽着儿子的胳膊去教堂，并观察——很少有人这样做，因为这个房子里很少有人陪伴——两人之间的关系，这是一个很好的景象。莱斯特爵士和他对他们的态度。在盛夏的天气里，这里会有访客，在树叶间可以看到切斯尼·沃尔德在其他时期不曾见过的灰色斗篷和雨伞；偶尔会发现两位年轻女士在僻静的锯坑和公园的角落里嬉戏；当两根烟斗的烟雾从警官的门口盘旋到芬芳的夜晚空气中时。然后，小屋内响起了长笛声，谈论着“英国掷弹兵”这个鼓舞人心的话题；当夜幕降临时，两个男人一起踱来踱去，听到一个粗鲁、僵硬的声音说：“但我从来没有在老女孩面前承认过这一点。”必须维持纪律。”

The greater part of the house is shut up, and it is a show-house no longer; yet Sir Leicester holds his shrunken state in the long drawing-room for all that, and reposes in his old place before my Lady’s picture. Closed in by night with broad screens, and illumined only in that part, the light of the drawing-room seems gradually contracting and dwindling until it shall be no more. A little more, in truth, and it will be all extinguished for Sir Leicester; and the damp door in the mausoleum which shuts so tight, and looks so obdurate, will have opened and received him.
房子的大部分都被封闭了，它不再是一个样板间；然而，莱斯特爵士却在长长的客厅里保持着萎缩的状态，在夫人的照片前安息在他的老地方。夜晚，客厅被宽大的屏风封闭，只有那部分有光，客厅的光线似乎逐渐收缩、减弱，直至消失。事实上，再多一点，莱斯特爵士的一切就会消失。陵墓里那扇关得那么紧、看起来那么顽固的潮湿的门将会打开并迎接他。

Volumnia, growing with the flight of time pinker as to the red in her face, and yellower as to the white, reads to Sir Leicester in the long evenings and is driven to various artifices to conceal her yawns, of which the chief and most efficacious is the insertion of the pearl necklace between her rosy lips. Long-winded treatises on the Buffy and Boodle question, showing how Buffy is immaculate and Boodle villainous, and how the country is lost by being all Boodle and no Buffy, or saved by being all Buffy and no Boodle (it must be one of the two, and cannot be anything else), are the staple of her reading. Sir Leicester is not particular what it is and does not appear to follow it very closely, further than that he always comes broad awake the moment Volumnia ventures to leave off, and sonorously repeating her last words, begs with some displeasure to know if she finds herself fatigued. However, Volumnia, in the course of her bird-like hopping about and pecking at papers, has alighted on a memorandum concerning herself in the event of ‘anything happening’ to her kinsman, which is handsome compensation for an extensive course of reading and holds even the dragon Boredom at bay.
随着时间的流逝，沃伦尼娅的脸变得越来越粉红，脸色变得越来越黄，在漫长的夜晚给莱斯特爵士读书，并被迫采取各种手段来掩饰她的哈欠，其中最主要也是最有效的是珍珠项链插在她红润的嘴唇之间。关于 Buffy 和 Boodle 问题的长篇大论，展示了 Buffy 是如何完美无缺的，而 Boodle 是邪恶的，以及国家如何因只做 Boodle 而没有 Buffy 而失去，或者如何通过只做 Buffy 而没有 Boodle 而拯救（它一定是其中之一）两个，不能是其他），是她阅读的主要内容。莱斯特爵士并不特别关注它的本质，而且似乎并没有非常密切地关注它，而且，当沃伦尼亚冒险离开时，他总是完全清醒，并大声地重复她的最后一句话，有些不高兴地请求知道她是否发现她自己也累了。然而，沃伦尼娅在她像鸟儿一样跳来跳去、啄食文件的过程中，落下了一份关于她自己的备忘录，以防她的亲戚“发生任何事情”，这是对广泛阅读课程的丰厚补偿，并持有甚至连巨龙的无聊都陷入困境。

The cousins generally are rather shy of Chesney Wold in its dullness, but take to it a little in the shooting season, when guns are heard in the plantations, and a few scattered beaters and keepers wait at the old places of appointment for low-spirited twos and threes of cousins. The debilitated cousin, more debilitated by the dreariness of the place, gets into a fearful state of depression, groaning under penitential sofa-pillows in his gunless hours and protesting that such fernal old jail’s—nough t’sew fler up—frever.
表兄弟们一般都对切斯尼沃尔德的沉闷感到害羞，但在射击季节，当种植园里听到枪声时，一些分散的殴打者和看守人在旧的约会地点等待着情绪低落的人。三三两两的表兄弟姐妹。虚弱的表弟，由于这个地方的沉闷而更加虚弱，陷入了一种可怕的抑郁状态，在他没有枪的时间里，他在忏悔的沙发枕头下呻吟，并抗议说这样的地狱般的老监狱永远不会再出现。

The only great occasions for Volumnia in this changed aspect of the place in Lincolnshire are those occasions, rare and widely separated, when something is to be done for the county or the country in the way of gracing a public ball. Then, indeed, does the tuckered sylph come out in fairy form and proceed with joy under cousinly escort to the exhausted old assembly-room, fourteen heavy miles off, which, during three hundred and sixty-four days and nights of every ordinary year, is a kind of antipodean lumberroom full of old chairs and tables upside down. Then, indeed, does she captivate all hearts by her condescension, by her girlish vivacity, and by her skipping about as in the days when the hideous old general with the mouth too full of teeth had not cut one of them at two guineas each. Then does she twirl and twine, a pastoral nymph of good family, through the mazes of the dance. Then do the swains appear with tea, with lemonade, with sandwiches, with homage. Then is she kind and cruel, stately and unassuming, various, beautifully wilful. Then is there a singular kind of parallel between her and the little glass chandeliers of another age embellishing that assembly-room, which, with their meagre stems, their spare little drops, their disappointing knobs where no drops are, their bare little stalks from which knobs and drops have both departed, and their little feeble prismatic twinkling, all seem Volumnias.
在林肯郡这个地方发生了变化的方面，沃伦尼亚唯一的伟大场合是那些罕见的、相隔很远的场合，即要为县或国家做一些事情，为公共舞会增光添彩。然后，确实，这位衣衫褴褛的仙女以仙女的形式出现，在堂兄弟的护送下，欢欣鼓舞地前往十四英里外的疲惫不堪的旧会议室，在每年的三百六十四个日日夜夜中，是一种澳大利亚的储藏室，里面摆满了倒置的旧椅子和桌子。那么，确实，她以她的居高临下、她少女般的活泼，以及她的蹦蹦跳跳，迷住了所有人的心，就像那个满嘴牙齿的丑恶老将军没有以每两畿尼的价格砍下其中一颗的日子一样。然后，她像一位出身于好家庭的田园仙女一样，旋转着，缠绕着，穿过舞蹈的迷宫。然后，情人们带着茶、柠檬水、三明治和致敬出现。那么她就是善良又残酷，端庄又谦逊，多姿多彩，美丽任性。那么，她和装饰那个会议室的另一个时代的小玻璃枝形吊灯之间有一种奇特的相似之处，这些吊灯的灯杆很细，有多余的小水滴，没有水滴的令人失望的旋钮，有光秃秃的小灯杆，旋钮和水滴都消失了，它们微弱的棱柱形闪烁，看起来全都是沃伦尼亚斯。

For the rest, Lincolnshire life to Volumnia is a vast blank of overgrown house looking out upon trees, sighing, wringing their hands, bowing their heads, and casting their tears upon the windowpanes in monotonous depressions. A labyrinth of grandeur, less the property of an old family of human beings and their ghostly likenesses than of an old family of echoings and thunderings which start out of their hundred graves at every sound and go resounding through the building. A waste of unused passages and staircases in which to drop a comb upon a bedroom floor at night is to send a stealthy footfall on an errand through the house. A place where few people care to go about alone, where a maid screams if an ash drops from the fire, takes to crying at all times and seasons, becomes the victim of a low disorder of the spirits, and gives warning and departs.
对于其他人来说，林肯郡对沃伦尼亚的生活就是一片杂草丛生的大房子，望着窗外的树木，叹息着，绞着双手，低着头，把眼泪洒在窗玻璃上，单调而压抑。一座宏伟的迷宫，与其说是一个古老的人类家族及其幽灵般的肖像的财产，不如说是一个古老的回声和雷鸣家族的财产，每一次声音都从他们的数百个坟墓中发出，并在整个建筑中回响。晚上把梳子扔在卧室地板上，浪费未使用的通道和楼梯，就像在房子里发出悄悄的脚步声。一个很少有人愿意独自走动的地方，那里的女仆如果有灰烬从火中掉下来就会尖叫，在任何时候和任何季节都会哭泣，成为精神低落紊乱的受害者，发出警告并离开。

Thus Chesney Wold. With so much of itself abandoned to darkness and vacancy; with so little change under the summer shining or the wintry lowering; so sombre and motionless always—no flag flying now by day, no rows of lights sparkling by night; with no family to come and go, no visitors to be the souls of pale cold shapes of rooms, no stir of life about it—passion and pride, even to the stranger’s eye, have died away from the place in Lincolnshire and yielded it to dull repose.
因此切斯尼沃尔德。其自身的大部分都被遗弃在黑暗和空虚之中；在夏季的阳光照耀下或在冬季的低垂下变化如此之小；总是那么阴沉、一动不动——现在白天没有旗帜飘扬，夜晚也没有一排排闪烁的灯光；没有家人来来去去，没有来访者成为苍白冰冷的房间的灵魂，周围没有任何生机——即使在陌生人看来，激情和骄傲也已经从林肯郡的这个地方消失了，并屈服于它。沉闷的休息。

CHAPTER LXVII
第十六章


The Close of Esther’s Narrative
以斯帖叙述的结尾

Full seven happy years I have been the mistress of Bleak House. The few words that I have to add to what I have written are soon penned; then I and the unknown friend to whom I write will part for ever. Not without much dear remembrance on my side. Not without some, I hope, on his or hers.
我当《荒凉山庄》的女主人已经整整七年快乐的时光了。我要补充的几句话很快就写下来了；那么我和我写信的那个不知名的朋友将永远分离。我这边也有很多美好的回忆。我希望，他或她的身上并非没有一些。

They gave my darling into my arms, and through many weeks I never left her. The little child who was to have done so much was born before the turf was planted on its father’s grave. It was a boy; and I, my husband, and my guardian gave him his father’s name.
他们把我的爱人投入我的怀抱，几个星期以来我从未离开过她。这个原本要做这么多事情的小孩子在父亲的坟墓上铺上草皮之前就出生了。那是一个男孩；我、我的丈夫和我的监护人给了他父亲的名字。

The help that my dear counted on did come to her, though it came, in the eternal wisdom, for another purpose. Though to bless and restore his mother, not his father, was the errand of this baby, its power was mighty to do it. When I saw the strength of the weak little hand and how its touch could heal my darling’s heart and raised hope within her, I felt a new sense of the goodness and the tenderness of God.
我亲爱的人所指望的帮助确实来到了她的身边，尽管这是出于永恒的智慧，是为了另一个目的。虽然这个婴儿的任务是祝福和恢复他的母亲，而不是他的父亲，但它的力量是强大的。当我看到那只虚弱的小手的力量，以及它的触摸如何治愈我亲爱的心并在她内心燃起希望时，我对上帝的良善和温柔有了新的感觉。

They throve, and by degrees I saw my dear girl pass into my country garden and walk there with her infant in her arms. I was married then. I was the happiest of the happy.
它们茁壮成长，渐渐地，我看到我亲爱的女儿走进了我的乡村花园，怀里抱着她的婴儿走在那里。那时我已经结婚了。我是最幸福的一个。

It was at this time that my guardian joined us and asked Ada when she would come home.
就在这个时候，我的监护人加入了我们，并问艾达什么时候回家。

‘Both houses are your home, my dear,’ said he, ‘but the older Bleak House claims priority. When you and my boy are strong enough to do it, come and take possession of your home.’
“亲爱的，这两栋房子都是你的家，”他说，“但旧的荒凉山庄拥有优先权。当你和我的孩子足够强大时，就来占领你的家吧。

Ada called him ‘her dearest cousin, John.’ But he said, no, it must be guardian now. He was her guardian henceforth, and the boy’s; and he had an old association with the name. So she called him guardian, and has called him guardian ever since. The children know him by no other name. I say the children; I have two little daughters.
艾达称他为“她最亲爱的表弟约翰”。但他说，不，现在必须是监护人。从此以后，他就是她的监护人，也是男孩的监护人。他对这个名字有着由来已久的联想。所以她称他为监护人，并且从那时起就一直称他为监护人。孩子们只知道他的名字。我说的是孩子们；我有两个小女儿。

It is difficult to believe that Charley (round-eyed still, and not at all grammatical) is married to a miller in our neighbourhood; yet so it is; and even now, looking up from my desk as I write early in the morning at my summer window, I see the very mill beginning to go round. I hope the miller will not spoil Charley; but he is very fond of her, and Charley is rather vain of such a match, for he is well to do and was in great request. So far as my small maid is concerned, I might suppose time to have stood for seven years as still as the mill did half an hour ago, since little Emma, Charley’s sister, is exactly what Charley used to be. As to Tom, Charley’s brother, I am really afraid to say what he did at school in ciphering, but I think it was decimals. He is apprenticed to the miller, whatever it was, and is a good bashful fellow, always falling in love with somebody and being ashamed of it.
很难相信查理（仍然睁着圆眼睛，完全不合语法）嫁给了我们附近的一个磨坊主；但事实就是如此；即使是现在，当我清晨在夏日的窗户前写作时，从办公桌上抬起头来，我仍然看到磨坊开始运转。我希望磨坊主不要宠坏查理；但他非常喜欢她，查理对这样的婚姻感到相当自负，因为他做得很好，而且要求很高。就我的小女仆而言，我可能会认为时间已经静止了七年，就像半小时前的磨坊一样，因为查理的妹妹小艾玛和以前的查理一模一样。至于查理的弟弟汤姆，我真的不敢说他在学校学过什么密码，但我认为那是小数。不管是什么，他都是磨坊主的学徒，是个害羞的好家伙，总是爱上某人并为此感到羞耻。

Caddy Jellyby passed her very last holidays with us and was a dearer creature than ever, perpetually dancing in and out of the house with the children as if she had never given a dancing-lesson in her life. Caddy keeps her own little carriage now instead of hiring one, and lives full two miles further westward than Newman Street. She works very hard, her husband (an excellent one) being lame and able to do very little. Still, she is more than contented and does all she has to do with all her heart. Mr. Jellyby spends his evenings at her new house with his head against the wall as he used to do in her old one. I have heard that Mrs. Jellyby was understood to suffer great mortification from her daughter’s ignoble marriage and pursuits, but I hope she got over it in time. She has been disappointed in Borrioboola-Gha, which turned out a failure in consequence of the king of Boorioboola wanting to sell everybody—who survived the climate—for rum, but she has taken up with the rights of women to sit in Parliament, and Caddy tells me it is a mission involving more correspondence than the old one. I had almost forgotten Caddy’s poor little girl. She is not such a mite now, but she is deaf and dumb. I believe there never was a better mother than Caddy, who learns, in her scanty intervals of leisure, innumerable deaf and dumb arts to soften the affliction of her child.
球童杰利比和我们一起度过了她最后的假期，她比以往任何时候都更加可爱，她总是和孩子们一起在房子里进进出出，仿佛她一生中从未上过舞蹈课。凯迪现在拥有自己的小马车，而不是租一辆，她住在比纽曼街更西两英里的地方。她工作非常努力，而她的丈夫（一位优秀的丈夫）却是个瘸子，能做的事情很少。尽管如此，她还是很满足，全心全意地做着自己该做的事。杰利比先生晚上在她的新房子里头靠在墙上，就像他以前在她的旧房子里那样。我听说杰利比夫人因女儿不光彩的婚姻和追求而蒙受了极大的屈辱，但我希望她能及时克服。她对 Borrioboola-Gha 感到失望，因为 Boorioboola 国王想把所有在气候中幸存下来的人卖给朗姆酒，结果失败了，但她已经开始致力于妇女在议会中的权利，并且凯迪告诉我，这是一项比旧任务涉及更多信件的任务。我几乎忘记了凯迪可怜的小女孩。她现在不是什么小东西了，但她又聋又哑。我相信没有比凯蒂更好的母亲了，她在有限的闲暇时间里学会了无数又聋又哑的技巧来减轻孩子的痛苦。

As if I were never to have done with Caddy, I am reminded here of Peepy and old Mr. Turveydrop. Peepy is in the Custom House, and doing extremely well. Old Mr. Turveydrop, very apoplectic, still exhibits his deportment about town, still enjoys himself in the old manner, is still believed in in the old way. He is constant in his patronage of Peepy and is understood to have bequeathed him a favourite French clock in his dressing-room—which is not his property.
就好像我永远不会和凯蒂告别一样，我在这里想起了皮皮和老特维德罗普先生。皮皮在海关，而且表现得非常好。老特维德罗普先生，非常中风，仍然表现出他在城里的举止，仍然以旧的方式享受自己，仍然以旧的方式被相信。他始终如一地赞助皮比，据了解，他在更衣室里遗赠了他最喜欢的法国钟表，但这不是他的财产。

With the first money we saved at home, we added to our pretty house by throwing out a little growlery expressly for my guardian, which we inaugurated with great splendour the next time he came down to see us. I try to write all this lightly, because my heart is full in drawing to an end, but when I write of him, my tears will have their way.
我们用家里存下的第一笔钱，专门为我的监护人大肆咆哮，为我们的漂亮房子增添了色彩。当他下次来看我们时，我们为它举行了盛大的落成典礼。我试着轻描淡写地写下这一切，因为我的心已经快要结束了，但当我写到他的时候，我的眼泪就会流出来。

I never look at him but I hear our poor dear Richard calling him a good man. To Ada and her pretty boy, he is the fondest father; to me he is what he has ever been, and what name can I give to that? He is my husband’s best and dearest friend, he is our children’s darling, he is the object of our deepest love and veneration. Yet while I feel towards him as if he were a superior being, I am so familiar with him and so easy with him that I almost wonder at myself. I have never lost my old names, nor has he lost his; nor do I ever, when he is with us, sit in any other place than in my old chair at his side, Dame Trot, Dame Durden, Little Woman—all just the same as ever; and I answer, ‘Yes, dear guardian!’ just the same.
我从不看他，但我听到我们可怜的亲爱的理查德称他为好人。对于艾达和她漂亮的男孩来说，他是最慈爱的父亲；对我来说，他就是他曾经的样子，我可以给它起什么名字呢？他是我丈夫最好、最亲爱的朋友，他是我们孩子们的宠儿，他是我们最深爱和尊敬的对象。然而，虽然我觉得他是一个高人一等的人，但我对他是如此熟悉，对他如此轻松，以至于我几乎对自己感到惊讶。我从未失去我的旧名字，他也没有失去他的旧名字；当他和我们在一起时，我也不会坐在他身边的旧椅子上，特洛特夫人、杜登夫人、小妇人——都和以前一样；我还是回答：“是的，亲爱的监护人！”

I have never known the wind to be in the east for a single moment since the day when he took me to the porch to read the name. I remarked to him once that the wind seemed never in the east now, and he said, no, truly; it had finally departed from that quarter on that very day.
自从他带我到门廊念名字那天起，我就从来没有一刻知道风是东风。有一次我对他说，现在风似乎不再是东边了，他说，不，确实如此。它终于在那天离开了那个季度。

I think my darling girl is more beautiful than ever. The sorrow that has been in her face—for it is not there now—seems to have purified even its innocent expression and to have given it a diviner quality. Sometimes when I raise my eyes and see her in the black dress that she still wears, teaching my Richard, I feel—it is difficult to express—as if it were so good to know that she remembers her dear Esther in her prayers.
我觉得我亲爱的女儿比以前更漂亮了。她脸上一直流露出的悲伤——因为现在已经不存在了——似乎甚至净化了她那无辜的表情，并赋予它一种神圣的品质。有时，当我抬起眼睛，看到她仍然穿着黑色连衣裙，教导我的理查德时，我感到——很难表达——仿佛知道她在祈祷中记得她亲爱的以斯帖是多么高兴。

I call him my Richard! But he says that he has two mamas, and I am one.
我称他为我的理查德！但他说他有两个妈妈，而我是其中之一。

We are not rich in the bank, but we have always prospered, and we have quite enough. I never walk out with my husband but I hear the people bless him. I never go into a house of any degree but I hear his praises or see them in grateful eyes. I never lie down at night but I know that in the course of that day he has alleviated pain and soothed some fellow-creature in the time of need. I know that from the beds of those who were past recovery, thanks have often, often gone up, in the last hour, for his patient ministration. Is not this to be rich?
我们的银行并不富有，但我们一直很富裕，而且我们已经足够了。我从来没有和我的丈夫一起出去过，但我听到人们祝福他。我从来没有走进过任何级别的房子，但我听到他的赞美或看到他们感激的眼神。我晚上从不躺下，但我知道在这一天的过程中，他减轻了痛苦，并在需要时安抚了一些同胞。我知道，在过去的一个小时里，那些已经康复的人在病床上常常对他的耐心服务表示感谢。这不是要发财吗？

The people even praise me as the doctor’s wife. The people even like me as I go about, and make so much of me that I am quite abashed. I owe it all to him, my love, my pride! They like me for his sake, as I do everything I do in life for his sake.
人们还称赞我是医生的妻子。当我到处走动时，人们甚至喜欢我，并且对我如此评价，让我感到非常羞愧。我把这一切都归功于他，我的爱，我的骄傲！他们因为他而喜欢我，就像我一生中所做的一切都是为了他。

A night or two ago, after bustling about preparing for my darling and my guardian and little Richard, who are coming to-morrow, I was sitting out in the porch of all places, that dearly memorable porch, when Allan came home. So he said, ‘My precious little woman, what are you doing here?’ And I said, ‘The moon is shining so brightly, Allan, and the night is so delicious, that I have been sitting here thinking.’
一两个晚上前，在忙着为明天要来的我的亲爱的、我的监护人和小理查德做准备之后，当艾伦回家时，我坐在所有地方的门廊上，那个令人难忘的门廊上。于是他说，“我亲爱的小女人，你在这里做什么？”我说，“艾伦，月亮如此明亮，夜晚如此美妙，我一直坐在这里思考。”

‘What have you been thinking about, my dear?’ said Allan then.
“亲爱的，你在想什么？”艾伦问道。

‘How curious you are!’ said I. ‘I am almost ashamed to tell you, but I will. I have been thinking about my old looks—such as they were.’
“你真好奇！”我说，“我几乎不好意思告诉你，但我会的。”我一直在思考我以前的样子——就像它们本来的样子。

‘And what have you been thinking about THEM, my busy bee?’ said Allan.
“我的勤劳的蜜蜂，你一直在想什么？”艾伦说。

‘I have been thinking that I thought it was impossible that you COULD have loved me any better, even if I had retained them.’
“我一直在想，即使我保留了它们，你也不可能更好地爱我。”

‘‘Such as they were’?’ said Allan, laughing.
“就像他们一样？”艾伦笑着说。

‘Such as they were, of course.’
“当然，就像他们本来的样子。”

‘My dear Dame Durden,’ said Allan, drawing my arm through his, ‘do you ever look in the glass?’
“我亲爱的德登夫人，”艾伦拉着我的手臂说道，“你看过镜子吗？”

‘You know I do; you see me do it.’
'你知道我会的;你看我这样做。

‘And don’t you know that you are prettier than you ever were?’
“你难道不知道你比以前更漂亮了吗？”

‘I did not know that; I am not certain that I know it now. But I know that my dearest little pets are very pretty, and that my darling is very beautiful, and that my husband is very handsome, and that my guardian has the brightest and most benevolent face that ever was seen, and that they can very well do without much beauty in me—even supposing—.
'我不知道;我不确定我现在是否知道。但我知道我最亲爱的小宠物很漂亮，我的宝贝很漂亮，我的丈夫很英俊，我的监护人有一张有史以来最明亮、最仁慈的脸，他们可以很好地我身上没有多少美感——即使假设——。